e CONCORDIENSIS : ~::: :::; ~: : ::::: VOLUME 39 MARCH 2, 1916 NO. 16 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY ]J

j: I: II I I 'I I ' ' l ! ) ' j: :' UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICH MONO, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor A\107tcz .... UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate nd graduate courses: 1.. Cour•e• leading to the degree of A. B. CLASSICAL CouRsn A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded itt addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B -This course may be pur sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. S. Course leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers ~atin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course ieadlng to the degree of B. S. ScntNTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree ot B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. EtttCTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. lo Cou:r11e11 lea41ng to graduate degree•· CouRSE LEADING ro D:EGREE or M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CoURSE LEADING TO DEGR.Elt 01' 1\1. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRsE L~ADING To D£GR£It or PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of lVI S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BAE.N£S, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 1838-A complete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate. responsibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved methods. \t\Tith these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physics, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and other communication'S should be ad- dressed to THOMAS ORDWAY, M.D., Dean~ Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the st~te capitol. It occupies a building wholty devoted to ttl use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation f~e, $to; . tuition fee, $I Io. For catalOQ11e or other m formatton, address: JoHN c4 WATSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: ALFRED B. H UES'tED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25o~~ DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate -= vc - UN ). ,',,' ,, . ' EI \ I def P. - - the \Vit tea: . m1E bes ·'-• .. · cou for . ~\ mal . '<) tng Un: i eve I sho ! \ i ' i I be a • h ! ,. ~~ ~ ; i 1:1ee the: .-:· but /. for ··~ l . ;,' ·~ ten con firs· ; ket1 1 \vhc \ bloc \ I I. I ly f I ?·' I j

~ ' ' ' ' i I ! i ' i ' \ '• \ \ I. ' . I. \ i ~~ 'The Concordiensis VOL. 39 ~lARCH 2~ 1916 NO. 16 UNION AGAIN DEFEATS R. P. I. MUDGE AGAIN THE STAR. EIGHTH VICTORY IN FOUR Y]:AR.S. For the eighth ti1ne in four years Union defeated Rensselaer at basketball in the R. P. I. gytnnasium last Saturday night. From the start to the finish the game was replete \vi th wonderful work on the part of both tea1ns but the individual honors go to Jim- mie Mudge. The Garnet forward played the best game of his career on the basketball court and was always there to block a11y try for the basket that the Troy players might make. Aside from his good work at guard·- ing, he was the n1ost consistent man on the Union team at advancing the ball and when- ever he got the ball it was sure to take a short course for the Union basket. The beating came as a surprise to the Troy engi- 11eers who felt confident in the ability of their team to send the Garnet home beaten but they were doomed to disappointlnertt, for Captain Zimmer and his men were de- tennined that the team that first saw defeat come to the new gym would not also see the first victory of R. P. I. over a Union bas- ketball team. The game started out badly for Union \vhen Woolsey, the Troy center, drew first blood by tnaking a field goal and immediate- ly follo\ved it u.p with a free shot fron1 the foul line. 'This gave the Cherry a lead of three points and also caused Zi.p to call his men together for a short talk, the result of \vhich was that Mudge made good on a foul try and Y ovi ts made the first goal for Union. The score was about even until the latter part o£ the period when Union drew away and ended the halt with a count of 10 to 8. At the opening of the second half Mudge n1ade a free shot and Zimmer followed it up with a field goal. This made things look very promising for Union but Wool- sey soon broke loose and added four more for Rensselaer and put his team again in the running. However, Union was not to be outdone and Yovits and Mudge got together and brought the Garnet total out of danger. About one hundred and fifty students ac- con1panied the team to Troy on a special cat. These ore : UNION. F.B. F.P. Total Scoby, ri. _...-,....:,.. _______ 0 0 0 l\1 udge, If. --------- 4 9 17 \Vitbeck, C. ______ ..__ 0 0 0 Haubner, r£. ------- 0 0 0 Zimn1er, rg. ------- 1 0 2 Yovits, lg. _____ ....., ___ 3 0 6 8 9 25

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. R. P. I. UNION. F.B. F.P. ; ,·,.'· . . I . F.B. 1-Io-vvard, rf. --------- _1 Ewing, rf. --------- 0 ~acManus, lf. ----- 0 Robertson, lf. ------ 0 \¥ oolsey, c. -------. 4 1\IcDonald, rf. ------ 0 Parrot, lg. -~------- 0 O'Hara, lg. -------- 0 F.P. 0 Total 2 Scoby, lf. ---------- 1 0 Mudge, rf. ~-------- 1 4 Total l .t •. 2 l ,' 6 i 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 13 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 5 15 Scote at half-,_,Union, 10; R. P. I., 8. Fouls committed-Union, 9; R. P. I. 14. H.eferee- Hammond. Umpire-Kingston. 'fin1e of halves-20 minutes. UNION DEFEATS ARMY. Garnet as Usual Shoots Better and Out- plays the Cadets. Playing a fast, aggressive gan1e with a ficrht that increased in the second half rather b than showing a slump, Union defeated the Artny basketball team on the afternoon of \V ashingtons birthday on the West Point court by the score of 21 to 16. Incidentally this is the fourth consecutive year the Gar- net quintet has shown a superiority over the soldiers. The general floor work and team play surpassed anything seen this season, and proved tnost encouraging to Coach Dawson. Witbeck was the chief scorer, caging three baskets from the field. Mudge showed an improvement, being stronger on the free shooting, and Y ovits held Oliphant to no score, while he rang up two fro1n the field. Scoby bruised his knee in the first half but continued and held up well. Britton played best for the army, n1aking over a third of his tean1's points. The West Pointers tried hard to win and used eight players. The line-up and sun1n1ary: \Vitbeck, c. -------- 3 0 ,_, '. 1 2 0 .L ovtts, ·g. --------- ,..,. .t..lmmer, rg. ---d---- 1 1 Totals ---------- 8 5 WEST POINT. F.B. F.P. •')liphant, rf. ------- 0 2 Gerhardt, lf. 0 0 ' ------- Britton, c. ___ _... _____ 3 0 Cole, rg. ----------- 2 0 Baylor, lg. ____ .. ______ 1 0 'rib bitt, rf. --------- 0 0 Cusack, rg. ----·---- 0 0 Kilburn, lf. -------- 1 0 6 4 3 21 Totals ---------- 7 2 16 Score end of :first half-Union, 9 ; West Point, 7. Referees-Thorpe and Dering. CLASS BASKETBALL. The class basketball league is about to close with only three games :nore :o play. The present stan·ding : 1917 ---------------- 1918 ---------------- 1919 ---------------- 1916 ---------------- w. 3 3 2 1 L. 2 2 2 3 P.C. .600 .600 .500 .250 The remaining g-an1es are between 1919- 1916, 1917-1916, and 1918-1919. If necessary to decide the winner 1918 will have to play 1916 again as one of their victories was scored with Moynihan, an AUA man, in the line-up. This will happen unless 1917 wins and 1918 loses in the next games. There is a large squad out for track in preparation for the class n1eet that will be · held to-morrow. It is expected that a large ·. 2n1ount of good varsity material will be pro~ · duced in the class events. ~ clos but suo up, Un: Un: Un Un Un Un lJn Ur Ur U1 Ut Ut Ot a w Jt . IS v h c 0 t l l 1 1

est 600 . was the Nins in be · arge ·. ' pro~ THE ·CO·NCORDIENSIS. 11 PREPAREDNE'SS SHOULD BE UNIVERSAL TilE BASKEr.rBALL SEASON. ~he basketball season is drawing to a dose. Upon reflection, there is no doubt but that we may congratulate the team on a successful season. Following is our record up to last night's game with Williams: Says Dr. Richmond, at Phi Beta Kappa Dinner. Suggests Compulsory Physical Exercise as Preliminary Training. Union------ 33 State Co11ege -------- 20 Union------ 22 Clarkson 1'ech~ ------ 19 Union------ 21 R. P. I. ------------- 20 Union------ 15 Wesleyan ----------- 21 Union------ 22 Crescent A. C. ------ 34 Union------ 16 Amherst ---·-------- 30 lJnion------ 16 Lehigh ------·---·-~-- 14 Union------ 14 St. Lawrence ------- 15 Union------ 28 Williams ----·---~--- 23 Union------ 22 Amherst -----·------ 24 Union------ 21 West Point --------- 16 Union------ 25 R. P. I. ------------ 15 At the dinner of the Upper Hudson As- sociation o£ Phi Beta Kappa held in the Ten Eyck, Albany, on Saturday evening, Feb- l'uary 26, Dr. Richmond in speaking o£ mili- tary training in colleges said that the value of a man is not to be measured by his value to himself but by his value to his country. The election was held and the following officers chosen: President, Hon. William P. Rudd of Albany, justice of the Supren1.e Court; vice-president, Hyland H. Horner, chief of the state examination department; secretary-treasurer, Professor Morton C .. Stewart; executive committee, the officers and Charles C. Lester of Saratoga. Springs, I-'rof. John L. March and Foster Pruyn of Al- 255 251 By this it is seen that we have won seven out of twelve games with an advantage of a few points over our opponents' total score. The result of the Williams game last night were received too late for this issue, but judging by the first game alone the Garnet is surely the stronger. The next game with Wesleyan will be a hard one. Wesleyan won over us early in the season by a small score on their own floor. Since that titne we have been steadily in1.proving and we will certainly exhibit much greater strength on our own floor next Saturday. In the last three games we have developed a fine come- back in the second half and it will be retnetn- ·bered that the Wesleyan game was lost in the last half. Inasmuch as Princeton has not played the same tean1.s as we have, it is difficult to conJecture about our c1osing g-ame with the Tigers. Our increased con- fidence over our improved condition will help us against the team that is second in the large college league. Our latest com- bination has been a vvinning one and play- ing better in each game. Princeton ought to find us at our best. bany. The speakers were George McAneny, late- ly president of the board of aldertnen of New York City ; Clinton I. 1-iorton, senator frorn Erie County and chairn1an of the com- n1ittee on civil service; Edwin Duffy, state highway commissioner; Percy 1Vlackaye, poet and playwright, and Dr. Richmond, president of Union College. Dr. Finley vvas toastn1aster and at the speakers' take, in addition to the speakers, \vere Justice Rudd and Dr. A. R. Brubacher, president of the State Colege for Teachers. Dr. Finley said he was for a preparedness beyond that favored by any oth~r person he had heard speak on the subject. Dr. Richmond said in part: \The question of military training- in col- leges has been urged upon us with sorne in- s1stence. It seerns to n1e that this matt~r should he approached with great caution. If such training should becon1e a general requiren1ent to he avp11ed to all An1erican youth the undergraduates in our colleges

I I I I I' ! ' i I I I I ! I I, I i I I I ~I j I ! ' I I I I I 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. .this class out for the first line of service ,vhich means a1so the first line of sacrifice,, seems to rue an economic absurdity. should of course be included, but to single r ly a large proportion of officers in an army. In the Civil War, out of 499 ~Union College men who served in the army, 428 were officers and only seventy-one privates.~ But in the present day warfare a highly specialized training is an essential in a good officer. Such training a college is not qual- \Under any voluntary system it would probably be found that the well educated youth would be the first to respond. He would be the first victim of the mistakes and the costly experiments which are always the deadly accompaniments of the first days of a war. The inferior man is always the last man to enlist and the last to incur dan- ger. \Colleges can serve the country in better \vays than by giving the time and energy of their young men to military training. Every year of general college training adds value to the man, and this value should be conserved to the country. What we need rnore than anything else is a preliminary training in patriotism which shall estab~ lish the principle in the heart of every young man that he belongs to his country and that the country has the right to lay its hand upon him and claim hin1 for ser- . V1Ce. \The college men are natural leaders in ¥ • every range of life. ' They are the cho1ce ified to give. \The whole question is full of cotnplica- tions but two things seem clear: First, 've should set ourselves with energy to the task of making our young men physically fit; we should change our whole attitude to- wards school and college athletics; we should reform this insane system of spending so much of our time and money and energy in turning out winning teams, and devote our- selves to setting up our boys and young 11_1en by physical exercises which should be cotnpulsory for all. This would have a value either for peace or for war, an indus- trial as well as a military value. As a pre- liminary training it is essential for both. \And second, we should establish the principle by assertion and reassertion that no man has the right to enjoy the protec- tion of the flag and the privileges vouch- safed under a stable government without also assuming the obligations and respon- sibilities that go with that security. young men. They -should, and as a rule do, take the leader's place of responsibility and this involves, of course, n1.ore than a man's share of hard work and danger. But in us- ing these men regard should always be had for their peculiar value to their country. It might be vv 7 ell to consider in such a college as Union some training in the military ap- plication of electrical science and civil and sanitary engineering, signal corps and field hospital service, work can only be well done by men having knowledge of these sub- jects. \Fron1 the point of view of patriotistn the · value of a man is not to be measured by his value to himself but by his value to his country. \'rhe point i3 that the peculiar value which a young man acquires in the regular train- ing of his college courses should be held bv him in trust and subject at anv time to ~ - the call of his country. \It is no doubt true that the colleg-es sup- \Whatever changes or reinforcements are required to bring about these results at Union college I should be glad to advocate.\ Three of the college faculty attended the 1neeting of the Upper Hudson Classical As- sociation in Albany recently and discussed the papers that were read. They are: Pro- fessors Bennett, Kelogg and Fohes. 1, . , .. , •t ·'' ,I l i ·•,t ! } ' ,,. n: pn ga th< ~ ~-.,p th< th( mt cle ] . po1 wi1 \r _o ful por fine ] of . 111 ( . lS < fou tair eve '\iVh< poe son aes1 erer Poe poe1 met as n conj the c- sh notE \str an e men . g1ve we< cf g: S}

e ... l /;~ ' '~~ ' .. ~ ~ ' 1 X : :·1 ,'· ·J l . ' ~ '',t ! } ' ' THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 DR. MASON OF COLUMBIA LEC- T{JRES ON FORM IN MUSIC. Monday evening Daniel Gregory Mason, professor of music at Columbia University, ·rave the first lecture of the second group on ~he Psychology of Music, in the Ichabod Spencer course. Mr. Mason developed ~he theme of \Form in Music,\ first defend1ng the painful necessity of dissecting beautiful music for the sake of getting a better and clearer view of it. Professor Mason showed the analogy be- tween poetry and music and illustrated his point by comparing a sonata of Beethov~n with Wordsworth's sonnet, \The World 1s 'roo Much With Us,\ pointing out the grace- ful arch-like shape of each and the corres- ponding main and minor subjects and finally a similar climax at the end of each. Music, he explained, is made up of a series of taps which the human ear always hears in certain combinations-hence arises what is called metre. In poetry the parallel is found in the groups of syllables with cer- tain accented beats. Good poetry consists of even beats with uneven accents, hence \\i\ 7 hen there is a sing-song regularity to a poem it becomes uninteresting. For this rea- son, Prof. Mason, speaking fron1 a purely aesthetic point of view, gave decided pref- erence to \Dixie\ over \Yankee Doodle.\ Poets make poetic rythm subordinate to poetic metre and when rythm conflicts with metre the result is interesting and pleasing as music. The great interest in music is the conflict of the two schemes, the metre and the rythmic. Rag time consists in putting c- short note on a metric accent and a long note where there is no metric accent. The \stretching out\ by musicians of a note over an extra long period technically called aug- mentation. This and syncopation, which gives the ef(ect of putting something where we did not expect it are the common n1eans cf giving interesting musical variation. Syncopation is the outstanding character- istic of rag time and for this reason, the speaker half humorously said_, Schumann vvho was a very frequent employer of synco- pation, would have been a good American. The second stage in musical development is the combination of the elements into phrases while the third and highest stage is what is known as variety in unity. The lecturer illustrated his talk with ryth- mographs, which were sheets of cardboard on which he had cleverly indica ted in dif- ferent colors and with differently shaped and arranged spaces various musical schemes. During the course of the lecture he pledged a fugue from Bach and a melody from Mosart closing 'iVith three pieces by Brahms. SECOND LECTURE ON MUSIC. Prof.. Mason Treats of Color in Music. Tuesday evening Prof. Mason conclud- ed his series of lectures on the psychology of music by explaining what was meant by color in music. He introduced his subject by saying that there was a close analogy between painting and music. The word \color\ in reference to music is used in a very rough way as when we spea]\: of a uvery richly colored piece of music. On this point, it may be said that within the last thirty years a much greater advance has been made in musical coloring than in musical form. In classical music as in the Bach fugue played the previous evening, every note is a part of a line of melody and every part essential to the contour as a wh()le as lines in an etching or engraving. When extra notes are added to the tnelody for the pur- pose of adding musical color the analogy is similar to the spots of color used by modern painters. Prof. Mason then assigned two reasons for the present popularity of rich musical color. The first, a general desire for rich- ness in all forms of art and the second a dis-

I I , I . '' 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. taste for the perfectly obvious and hence an added intellectual delight in the music when blurred and made difficult by great richness of color. The speaker here digressed into a dis- cussion of the mechanical construction of the piano, dwelling particularly on the great value of the damper pedal in the sustaining of a tone. As n1 usical con1 posers began 1nore fully to understand the use of the damper pedal, remarkable changes became possible in the fingering and, as Prof. Mason hin1self demonstrated, it was possible there- by to play a con1plete n1usical piece with th~ \n1elodious forefinger.\ This being pos- sible it was clearly evident what wonderful combinations could be gotten from the use of all ten fingers. To illustrate, the lec- turer played one of Chopin's etudes. As in painting, so in music it is necessary to keep all coloristic tones in the back- ground. Only the upper melody and bass come out clear, while all the rest is a de- lio-htful haze of color, accon1plished by b n1eans of the dan1per pedal. It was early observed by Chopin and other composers that what is known in physics as sytnpathetic vibration, that is the Yibration of one body or string imparted by air waves from some other vibrating body or string, could be made use of to give very beautiful color effects by striking very lightly the sympathetically vibrating strings. This wonderful shimtner of tone is clearly seen in Chopin's nocturnes. The modern love for color has surpassed even the rich- ness of Chopin as was shown by cotnparing the lurid color and inspiring richness of that great composer's works with a n1ore mod- ern composer, Debussy. Hence modern composers instead of adding only the har- n1onious upper-partial notes added also · those that clashed and atten1pted to over- come the upper-partials by n1eans of sec- ends. that is by striking with each note the one next to it. Prof. Mason next discussed, the presence of chimes in so many modern pieces, as-- signing as a reason the fact that this rich- ness of color which we love is to be found in the note of a bell. The bell note has two distinct component parts which the speak- er called the ''tap-note\ andl the \hum-note'' which together produce a rich and complete effect. After a great deal of this richness, some composers like to return to simple forms again. This Prof. Mason illustrated by a simple- piece from Debussy. Nature, he said, was an immense sug- gestion in the study of color as in sunshine, n1oonlight and vapor. A beautiful piece of his own composing called \At Sunset\ fully showed the rich cloud coloring as represent- ed in music. In closing, Prof. Mason said that though the suggestions and possibilities in color are very fascinating, composers must not pay too much attention to it to the exclusion of form, for the effects of color are merely sensuous but those of forn1 have an appeal to mind and heart. The true meaning of n1usic lies in its melodies and n1odern music is progressing along this line. ENGLISH CLUB. A regular rneeting of the English Club vvas held on Friday evening, February 25th. Sternfeld '16 read a paper on the poetry of Edgar Allen Poe. The John Masefield lec- ture to be held March 3, was discussed. · W. E. Wynn '16 was elected to membership. At the close of the meeting the club adjourned to the Alpha Delta Phi House where re- freshments were served. The next lectures in the Ichabod Spen- cer course will take place in chapel on the evenings of March 6 and 7. They will be on the subject of the aesthetic influence of architecture. Judging by the large and ap- preciative audience that heard Dr. Mason ;rnd the popularity which he vvon the next lc·ctures will also be well attended. . l ! f ' ., .. ,. ~ ; i • :t .. ,, ' 'i ','•, .. i ·' I ·.-:) l.r ~ ~ <~ : I i· ) tl v 0 b ll . H N p u: h: h< <H bi at . lfl a co N1 he Sb . Sl2 ffi( oq of Co poj for tne its SOt D . me wh 1 Phi aw; Br< Ad1 hus bat·

s, - y e y ,. ~ ; i • :t ''\, ' 'i ','•, -' ' .. i '~ I , •I . ·' l J • ~ r .; I . i '',' i· THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 DR. RICHM·OND IN PRINT. In the magazine section of the New York Times probably on Su!lday, March 4, there will be an article about Dr. Richmond. We all recognize how much Prexy has ac- colnplished in the upbuilding of our college, but of him personally we all, of course, do llOt know. The fact is that besides listen- ing occasionally to such men as Alfred Noyes and Robert Frost, to men whom Prexy terms \real poets,\ we have one act- ually within our midst. And, although, per- haps, not famous as a musician, here too he is certainly skillful, as well as an ardent c;~dmirer and devotee of music. His com- bination of abilities renders Prexy unique among college presidents, for what other institution can boast of having a minister, a business man, a poet, a musician, and a college idol at the head of its affairs. Last week Charles K. Shelden of the New York Times was here, and at that time he had an interview with Prexy. Mr. Shelden's article, it is believed, will empha- size the musical and poetic accomplishments mentioned above. Speaking of the \Challenge a magazine organized to stimulate the free discussion of opinion among American students,\ the Columbia Spectator expresses keen disap- pointment, saying that the publication holds forth very ordinary opinions. Much excite- tnent was expected of this paper because of its threatened radical views. The sheet has son1e notable subscribers. including Louis D. Brandeis, John Reed, Louis D. Doter- meyer, and Mrs. Inez Milholland Boissiran, who will also contribute. The members of last year's victorious Ph.l 1 otnathean debating team were recently ~warded handsome medals. The men are: Brown, Jacobs and Sternfeld all of '16 The Adel h\ · ' · · P tc and Phtlon1athean teams are now husy at work for the next Allison- Foote de- bate which will take place shortly .. HAS UNION THE OLDEST LIVIN·G GRADUATE? Speaking editoriaHy the New York Times says: \The Times made sympathetic mention recently of the Oldest Living Graduate, a figure beloved in the thousand-odd colleges of the United States, the head and patriarch of the gownsman's clan. If his reign is not long it is mild, and the succession of these stout wrestlers with time is never inter- rupted. Who of all the Olde~t Living Grad- uates is the Oldest Living Graduate, the chief among eleven hundred or so, the champion survivor? A Boston friend names the Hon. Stephen K. Willian1s of Newark, in this State, the surviving member of the Class of 1837 at Union College. A Bulletin of Union graduates says that, 'having cele- brated seventy-eight anniversaries of his graduation Mr. Williams probably holds the intercollegiate record in this regard.'' \The sturdy college at Schenectady has produced so many famous sons since its be- ginnings in Washington's second adlninis- tration; it has enriched theology, law, medi- cine, business, journalisn1) public life with so many strong and notable figures; it ha~ such a quality, tang, and vigor, that if the Oldest of Living Graduates be a UnionisL, and one of Eliphalet N ott's 3, 700 boys, the laurel could not be hung upon a worthier lintel. Dr. N ott was President of Union for sixty-one years. He reached from before the Boston Port bill to the battle of Sadowa, a goodly span of ninety-three years. He set a good example to his 'boys,' and Mr. \Vii- lams of the New York Newark has follow- ed and bettered it. lVIay he live for tnany and 1nany a happy year yet and confound all records!\

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORD lEN SIS out, if not every week or month, at least quarterly or semi-annually. But not only have our dreams vanished, our surest ex- pectations have been doomed to disappoint- ment. We see very very :few, if indeed, any at all, real literary products in our weekly. 'I'he best we get is a humorous story occa- sionally and a few verses now and then. There seems to be no ambition among· the men of ability that we may have. But per- haps someone will start the ball a rolling. \Ve think that our literary geniuses are mere- l:Y bashful and soon their expressions will burst out naturally after a long confinement. There surely are some among us who can distinguish themselves along literary lines. Lets hear from them! A Literary and News Weekly PubHshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class 1\fatter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Tay,lor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 V. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass 't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 p~r year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Editor for this issue- Rudolph W. Schwartz '17. TO LITERARY MEN. If the tsetse fly has bitten our dran1atics it certainly has taken a nibble or two in the veins of our literary men. Where is that literary contest! Where is the prize! Where is the winner! Where are the contestants ! Alas ! All are lacking, especially the con test- ants which fact accounts for the disappear- ance of the rest. We remember way back in the early part of the last sen1ester that the Concordiensis announced a literary con- test. We looked upon it with approval. It seemed that this vvould bring out a vast amount of talent. We looked ahead and saw a section of the Concordiensis given over to a literary department. We even dream- ed of a separate literary publication, coming THE FRESHMAN BANQUET. The motion made by the Terrace Council prohibiting freshmen from leaving Schenec- tady for an annual banquet before five- thirty in the afternoon of the day of the banquet was passed unanimously by the student body. It is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. It shows that bolting is not quite as popular as was imagined. It is to be hoped that it will also lessen the useless hazing activity. Of late, the fresh- men banquets have become hair-cutting expeditions which did not dampen the ban- quets but merely served as slight amuse- ments for the friends of the unlucky ones. As forms of hazing go, hair-cutting is not very objectionable. But, applied to fresh- men who go to their class' dinner, it seen1s to be all wrong. In this case, a 1nan suf- fers for having a good class spirit, the very thing which he ought to have. There is an excuse for hazing a n1an who is deliberately I I I l <'· ,, ,. 1 I s . 1: v s: t] :, . 1t e1 \ e1 J '! tr i ·.:.,. 1',: . ' ltl I .,:',{ ;l. p] ,,·,7:' ,-.,.: '·• Cr.\·~ •. i ,, 'i ar i w 1 ·i \V, \ :1 11( clc re1 . SCJ to

ex- il e ,, I I I l d i J 1',: ' '! .' 1 .,:',{ ·: \ .,!~ '·• ;/{ ·( 'i ,, THE CONCORDIENSlS 17 fresh or d1respect£ul of place and custom. But why oppose the man who is trying to support his class! The men who do not try to attend th.eir banquets have not the proper spirit and they are left unmolested. I£ there is any hair-cutting to be done in connec- tlon with the freshmen banquets it ought to be practiced on those who stay away rather than on those who attend. We have begun with the recent five-thirty ruling. Why not go a little further. g1v1ng or receiving information intended to be aid but which really did not aid. We V\rant a pledge that binds one to the spirit of the honor system and not a few phrases that may be twisted by him who wishes. OUR DEPARTMENTS. Of late years much and deserved emphasis has been given the merits of our engineer- ing courses. And well has it been so done. But while this department has been widely and justly appreciated there has been a tendency to overlook another line of student work. THE HONOR PLEDGE. During the recent exams we had the op ... portunity of again observing the honor sys- tem in practice. Undoubtedly it worked in its custnmary beneficial way; but, there is still one fanlt that can be found with it. The troub!e lies with the pledge. In the past, objection has been made that the pledg~ is toe> long. While it is true that a shorter pledge may be more convenient, this is only a minor matter. Nevertheless, when we consider how much better a short and simple pledge may cover the ground than ~he present o.pe, then the criticism becomes Important. What is the use of stating sev- eral of the different ways in which the stud- ent has not violated the honor systen1 when the same · b . meantng can e better expressed ln a simple, short sentence! If a student pledges his honor that during a certain ex- ami11ation he has acted in full accordance with the honor system, he is then giving his vvord for more than that he has neither given nor received aid, for by \full accordance\ clearly is meant in accordance with all the re~uirements. To a person of elastic con- sctence there is nothing in the present pledge to prevent hitn from asking for aid or from These remarks are especially timely in view of the recent Phi Beta Kappa election. Six seniors were so honored-a number far greater than in any recent year. Their elec- tion does not mean merely that these men did the work outlined in the classical course. It 1neans that they did it well. It is true that the classical students are slightly fewer in number-but they are and always have been leaders in many things. They are the mainstay of the Concordiensis boards, and the debating teams. They are numerous among the various student man- agers. They rank high among their com- petitors from other institutions when they have been graduated . And so, while we are appreciating and spreading forth among prospective nevv con1ers the various tnerits of our college courses, let us indeed declare the worth of an engineering department par excellence -but let us also remember our Classical I)epartment with its \gratifying evidence· of renewed and lively interest in the best of th: cultural studies,\ with its yearly in- creastng faculty and its refining and en- nobling influence upon the lives of ·t l s students.

i I ·I 18 THE CON~CORDIENSTS MODERN FAIRY TALES. By Hoosit. I The Tale of the Student. Once upon time there was a Student. rhe Student was an industrious and con- scientious Student. One morning he step- ped around to his class and found his pro- fessor absent. He waited ten minutes, :fif- teen minutes to no avail. rrhen he solilo- quized: \This hour should have been devot- ed to Latin. The absence of the professor should make no difference in my use of it.\ And so he straightway hied himself to the library and studied Latin for the rest of the h:our which had been bolted. Yes he did! * * * * II The Tale of the Assistant Treasurer. Once upon a time there lived an Assist- ant Treasurer whose occupation it was to garner the sheckles from innocent Studes. One fine registration day a Student came to buy himself a ticket admitting him to classes. After his pockets had been clean- ed. of jitneys he was astounded to hear the Assistant Treasurer addressing him: \Young man, my conscience forbids me to charge you anything for this term's tuition. I hereby refund you all that you have given me, and five dollars .besides as a token of personal esteem.': Yes he did! .... * * * * III The Tale of the Aspiring Manager. Once upon a time lived a sophomore who coveted a managerial position with all the honor and opportunities thereof. Many long hours he labored chalking lines and putting up bleachers. Many were the caustic re- marks thrust at him by coach and captain. At length when the elections came, the sophomore was designated as the one for- tunate enough to be allowed to work for two years more. Then he, too, got an at- tack of conscience and said : HI know I have v\ or ked hard, but honor forbids that I ac- eept the position when I know that so many others have better executive ability thau. I.''' Yes he did! IV. The Tale of the Chapel Meeting. Once upon a time there was a Chapel J\1eeting in which Foster Brown did not bawl out the freshmen, Dick Taylor an- nounce a Concordy meeting, Bone Gardner call a meeting of the Glee Club, Steve Story announced that in the future Silliman Hall would be flooded and used as an ice skating rink. Ye-s h~ did ! * * * * v The Tale of the College President. Once upon a time there lived a College President who was accustomed to receive a bounteous mail each morn. On one cheery morn he opened .a letter and was astounded to see a check for $5,000 fall to the floor. Then he soliloquized : \Helville Manna has done enough for the college. We need no buildings, no professorships, no increased endowment. What use have I for contribu- tions?\ Forthwith, he returned the check. Yes he did,! (To be continued if we get away with these.) Voice-Is this the Weather Bureau? How about a shower to-night? Prophet-Don't ask me. If you need one take it. He-Once for all, I demand to know who is master in this house ? She-You will be happier if you don't find out. County Justice-I'll have to fine ye a dol- lar, Jeff. . J eff-1'11 have to borrow it of ye, Judge. Country Justice-Great snakes! It was only to git a dollar I was fining ye. Git out! Y e ain't guilty, anyway. ·~ . '·, ;, . ·'\; I ' l ~ .. .. .., .1:· ·,·.·: ' ·• ' T1 lef st1 al1 hi: . 'V1 ne th w] to l!l dr tu ou . SCJ l< an sa: wl to . Wl . lfll he stl ho fu: . 10 ca bu th to: of . 0\1' b' sh . tn: ' .L.1J

·~ . '·, ;, . ·'\; I ' l ~ ', ' • THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 THE BUTTERFIELD MEMORIAL-A NEW SCIENCE BUILDING. The trustees have decided that the money lett by Mrs. Daniel Butterfield to erect a tr 1 emorial in memory of her husband on the Union College campus should take the form cf a science building to be devoted to the study of physics and chemistry. The loy- alty of General Daniel Butterfield,' 49, which vvas of so much value to the college during his lifetime, is thus, by the generosity of his ,vido·w, made to supply one of our pressing needs; for the growth and importance of these two departments of instruction, which are at present altoge14er unsatisfac- torily housed, are to be provided for, and in a n1ost substantial manner. The plans for this building have been drawn and accepted. They call for a struc- ture 120x55 feet and four stories high, in outward appearance conforming to the architecture of our old buildings. This science hall will be located north of North lane, being on a line with the gymnasium and having its main entrance facing in the same direction (east), while the south side, which will also contain an entrance leading to the physics department, will be on a line with the electrical laboratory. The buHd- ing is to be fireproof and without a basement, heat being supplied by our central plant. The arrangement has received the careful study of the heads of the two departments housed, and is modern in every way. It is further constructed with an idea to additions in the shape of colonnades, which will take care of future expansion. At present the building provides room enough to relieve the existing congestion, and to- allow labora- tory space for the development of new lines of work. The actual work of construction will be- gin early in the spring and the building :hould be ready for occupation by the open- tng of the following winter tertn.-Union .Alumni Monthly. MASEFIELD TO LECTURE. On English Poetry-Under Auspices of the English Club. On Friday evening, March 3, John Mase- field, the noted English poet, will lecture in the chapel on \English Poetry;\ besides de-. livering this lecture Mr. Masefield will read\ from his poems. The English Club, under whose auspices the lecture wil be give~, has. made a reduction t~ students of fifty cents in the price of admission. The regular price for tickets is one dollar. lVIasefield and Alfred Noyes, who lectured here last year, are generally regarded as· the two greatest English poets writing at the present time. Mase:fi.eld has reached this position after a son1ewhat romantic career. Previous to fifteen or sixteen years ago, at which time he began writing, he had follow- ed the sea and had been bar-boy in a West Street saloon in New York City. Be began to attract wide notice about five years ago when his poem \The Everlasting Mercy\ ap- peared. \Salt Water Ballads\ was the title of his first published volume. This has been followed by six others, in all of which \the odor of ocean\ and the reflection of the poet's rough life before the mast are found. As a dry land poet he is equally attractive. and sings: ''So hey for the road, the west road, by mill and forge and fold, Scent of the fern and song of the lark, by brook and field and wold.\ Besides poetry, Mr. Mase:field has writ- ten plays and criticisms ; HThe Tragedy of l\1an\ and \Pompey the Great,\ are among his plays; a work on Shakespeare is among his efforts in criticism. For Sale-A full blooded cow, giving milk~ also three tons of hay, a wheelbarrow, a grindstone, two stoves, a scythe and a demo- crat wabon.-Adv. in The Helena (Mont.) Independent.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 20 COLLEGE IDOL IS DETHRONED. Educated Chinamen Say Graven Image ·On Union's Campus Was Never Worshiped. hellion. Loyal troops in digging earth- works fo-r the defense of Shanghai dug up the stone image. The officer in charge gave it to Rev. J. M. W. Farnham, D. D., secre- tary of the Chinese Bible Society, who was graduated from .Union College in the class of 1856. Dr. Farnham had coolies load it on a boat in a near-by canal and eventually shipped it on a tea clipper needing ballast, as a gift to his a 1 ma mater. The age of the image can only be guessed at but the carv- ing is probably not of a later date than the fi.fteen century. '·!For more than forty years a grotesque ~tone image of a beast and its young, heroic in size, has stood on the campus of Union College at Schenectady, N. Y., and every alumnus of that celebrated seat of learning ~herishes memories of the \idol'\' as it was cQmmonly called. , College tradition relates that the huge sculptured image from far Cathay was promptly made a part of the undergraduate life for it received a surreptitious coat of paint on the night it was first set up and Hpainting. the idol\ has been a regular col- lege custom from that time. The coats of :paints have one good result. Like Cleo- patra's needle the image has traveled far and adorns an alien civilization but unlike the obelisk in New York's Central Park, it is not deteriorating from the effects of the cli- mate. For many years it was assumed that the graven image was in fact an idol. With the development of the science of electricity . a.nd the establishment at Schenectady of the . tnammoth plant of the General Electric Com- pany and at Union College of a great school in electrical engineering, educated Chinamen came. When they saw the \idor' they stnil- .ed the enigmatic smile of the inscrutable celestial. It was learned that the image had no religious significance and had never been \7\TOrshiped. The figures, to the Chinese n1ind, represent a lion and its young and have a sort of family resen1blance to the lions that gu·ard the guildhall at Ning-po and the north altar at the Temple of Heaven in Pekin. The history of the Union College \idol\ is not without interest. About the time of the beginning of our Civil War there was in progress in China \Vhat is generally known as the Tai-ping re- RADIO CLUB. Listens to Lecture by Dr. Alexanderson. At a meeting of the Radio Club in the electrical laboratory iast Friday night, Dr. E. F. W. Alexanderson of the General Elec- tric Company gave an illustrated extract of a paper on the magnetic amplifier, which he delivered before the J nstitute of Radio- Engineers on February 2, 1916. The n1ag- netic amplifier has been developed by the G. E. Company to make possible radio- telephony and high speed radio-telegraphy on a large scale. This amplifier, which is in structure and appearance, sotnething like a transformer, serves as a throttle by which !:l1e povver delivered by the high frequency ~lternator may be controlled by a telephone transmitter. Daily tests are being carried out in the Schenectady plant on a small scale with results which assure trans-At- lantic radio-telephony. The resignation of W. M. Gilbert '17 fron1 the Concordiensis board was accepted with regret last Monday. His time does not per- mit him to continue the work. Gilbert will be greatly missed for he was one of the most valuable men on the staff. It may also be mentioned here that the elections for the Concory will soon be held, as it was custo1nary for the old board to re- tire at the beginning of the spring tern1. ~ I, i . r ' ! I I> I I I ' !' '' ,• . •\ ~.~ .. , -~ ' ' ~ ·i I !) E tl d; T ta n( er Sf: vv fr c: G B ar c~ tb ca to m er ar . tg etl pr m br ib \' of lel ( . 111 . Yl c( p(

e s s t ,• ,· ·' ,I', ' i I, f ' . ! '? l I I> I:. I I . !' '' .. , .~ ' ' ,j I THE CONCORDIENSIS. 21 CHI PSI CONVENTION. Entertained by Union College Inter-Fratern- ity Conference. The seventy-fifth annual convention of the Chi Psi fraternity concluded last Satur- day with a dinner at the TenEyck in Albany. The business sessions were held in Schenec- tady, the home of the fraternity. The dele- gates and visitors were entertained at theatre parties and at a smoker at the Delta Upsilon house given by the Inter-fraternity Conference. Over one hundred were present at the din- ner. The decorations of the hall consisted entirely of American flags, save over the speakers' table. The toastmaster was Ed- vvard C. Swift, Michigan, '76, president of the fraternity. · The speakers ·were : Rev. Charles K. Guibert, Hamilton, '02; Judge George B. Turner, Cornell, '73; Dr. John B. Painerd, Middlebury, '79; J a1nes H. Call- anan, Rochester, '87, and Ernest E. Clymer, Cornell, '00. James H. Callanan, of Shenectady, made the principal speech of the dinner in advo- cacy of preparedness. He urged a navy sec- to none and declared that the army was a matter of much less importance. The pres- ent 1nilitary situation, declared Mr. Callan- an, vv-as befuddled by demagogues who were ignorant of the actual conditions. The pres- ent was a time of great opportunities and preparedness should enter into every depart- ment of government or private life. Mr. Guibert spoke on the subject of ?rotherhood, not alone applied to a fratern- Ity, but in its broader meaning, the relations of a man in the world. He said that a col- lege man is to apt to be selfish and self-seek- i~g on leaving college and urged a broader Y :ew. The dinner was in charge of John R. Cornell, Jr., of Albany, and Fawcett \\T. Porter, of the Union chapter. ATHLETIC BOARD. Considers Plan of Debarring Freshmen from 'Varsity Squads in First Semester. At several of the colleges around Union the freshmen are debarred from playing on any 'Varsity teams until they have passed a semester's work. Lately it has been sug- gested to have the systen1 established here. 1-'l t the last 1neeting of the Athletic Board a vote was taken to see how the members felt on the matter. The vote was a tie. At the student meeting on Monday the matter was brought up to see how the student body felt towards the idea. A motion was made to take the student vote, but this was laid on the table for two weeks in order to give the fellows a chance to think the matter over and be sure of their views. The students probably will be much divided on the pro- position and we shall undoubtedly have plentiful discussion on the subject. COMMITTEE ME~TINGS. 1'wo committees, one from the Board of Trustees and the other from the Graduate Council will meet some time in the near fu- ture, at a tin1e not definitely decided, to de- termine the needs of the college. Our urg- ent requirements, financial and otherwise, will be considered and reported upon by these committees which are co1nposed of the following men: Trustees-Mr. E. W. Rice, Jr., Mr. Willis rr. I-I anson, Mr. Courtland V. Anable, '81, Jvfr. Frank Bailey '85. · Graduate Council-Dr. Alexander Duane, '78, Mr. William J. Shaible, '86, Mr. H. C. I\.fandeville, '88, Mr. Frederick B. Richards, 'P.S. The Normal School band uniforms will consist of a cap and coat at first, with the probable addition of pants at a later date.- The Kalamazoo (Mich.) Gazette .

I li ' j: r I ' I I' I I· ' I I i ,. i I ! '. '• ·. 22 THE :CQNCORDIENSIS MUSICAL CLUBS CHEER UP THE BIG CITY. Once again the Union College musical men are back on the campus with not much left but a firm resolve to take a dollar or so more when they go to New York again. \'fhe whole trip was a success. Some mem- bers left Thursday and the remainder of the thirty-five entertainers went on the 7' :20 train Friday morning. The train left the Grand Central for Mt. Kisco at 2 :00 P. M. Friday, and after a somewhat tiresome ride the clubs arrived in this villa in a pouring rain which did not help matters any. After climbing a steep ascent they found the school house, where they met the little fairies, ate '' ' g9od sandwiches, and furnished real lnetro- politan music. The program that evening was well rendered, even to Talbot's parody_, and we are assured of a warm reception there 11ext year. It is indeed a novel sensation to be able to sit on the top of a hill and let one's feet hang over, but it is an easy thing to do at M t. Kisco. The people there are very nice, however. Saturday was the big day for the clubs. All New York turned out that evening to listen to our concert, though we did not show up to our standards, due perhaps to nervous- ness, lack of sleep, or too much entertain-- nlent. 1'he concert almost \got by,\ and then everyone was free to follow his own course. A real dance was provided for the entertainers at the Hotel Bretton Hall, and many clever young women were there. :rviost of the men appreciated this and stayed there, though some wanted 1i velier places. Since we do not advertise New York hotels in these columns there shall be nothing men- tioned of some of our representatives' escapades, but suffice it to say that hardly anyone needed to be put to sleep by rocking Sunday night. For further information see Downs, Mead, Stein or Hawn. PHI BETA KAPERS AD V E'RT/ I TAYLf>7i: LAriiEs' YE'fTO G£1{ HEA'Iff. I ' l I '1 . ' '' •' '' j' ' ' ; ' ~~ '., i ' .':-\' , L·: r I' .. I . '· I 1_, ' ' ,, .. ·, f ~ l.r

e s __ , e ~·. ' i ,, >' >' <~ '· ' 1 '' j > '., l I i ' .':-\' , L·: r I' I . '· I lc ' ' ·, f ' !.', ' ' THE CONCORDI:ENSlS. 23 ·~·· > : > > '• w~~ . THE UNION COLLEGE ANTHOLOGY. III. Cinderilla, the Scrub-Lady. Endless, beds, beds, beds, Rumpled, .dishevelled, twitSted, Hateful white mouths yawning wide open Waiting to be closed and smoothed over and patted, And opened up again. Sometimes, after a bad day, I dream of those gaping mouths, . Dream they are trying to suck n1e 1n for food As somes trange, huge beast. And sometimes in reatSsuring daylight, When I turn suddenly from one bed to another, My hair prickles and I jump, frightened, Thinking the mouth has gaped the wider as I looked- Gaped into a horrible, leering grin, Knowing I must come and pacify it, Or go without n1y bread an dbutter. Yesterday I overheard a student say \Oh hurnl Like to jump right into little ol' beddo right this minute!\ I never knew just why I cried, \No not you fooH ·That's just what it want-s -look, it's grinning at you! That wb. ite, old mouth there!\ Then I pulled myself together and mumbled some inane explanation. Now, the students watch me over their should- ers when I come in, And tell each other that it's old age creeping in, Making me queer in the head. Well, perhaps it is. NITE ON INTERNATIONAL LAW. If our touchy officials at Washington get on their upperos and decide foreign merchant-men can't come into port anned like dreadnaughts, what's the good of everybody concerned getting all het up about it and using all the note paper in seven countries to strain relations with? Three n1inutes it took us to devise a simple, practical solution, and heaven knows we don't pretend to be as intelligent atS Lloyd George or even Kaiser Wilm. The solution! the solution! we hear the nation cry. Well then, why doesn't each :incom- ing ship make a date with a nice, respectable out- ward-bound one for a smooth stretch of sea some- where and just toss over her guns to the other'tS deck to travel back periscopeward again without ever sullying at aH our grape-juicy, as the saying is, harbors? Oh! there's no question-we have the stuff! * * * * And then another thing. Everyone is at wits' ends what to do about the submarines. They're a bad, wicked lot and they know they are, bu~ attempt to argue with them, and they aim tor- pedoes at you. Which is both uncomfortable and fatal. Now it's well known that very few criminals, however hardened, can look a goo<\ man squarely in the eye without flinching sooner or later. Well, there you are! Send good men' ahead of your ships in row boats; when a peris- cope pops up, let them grab firmly ahold, place their best eyes against the spout and stare stead- ily, rebukingly down. Obviously, the villains at· the other ends won't be able to stand it more than an hour or two at the most-they'll rub their eyes and look away with shame. Then the good n1en, ever alert, will hoist the ~Subs into the row- boats and pour boiling water into them. Of c0urse, infinite care must be taken in hiring good n1en for the' positions. A crossed-eyed man, for instance, would never do in the world. The vil- lain in the submarine would think he was looking at someone else, and wouldn't be in the least phaoSed. The men must be taintlessly good. A tnan might never have done a bad thing in his life except, say, stolen a chicken, and £nd at the last minute that he wasn't quite saintly enough t') get by with his job. He'd be in a nice pickle then! SMASHING THE FOTLIGHTS. * * * * * There are fifteen more weeks in this semes- ter. Five would be amply sufficient time to awaken our tsetsed dramatic society, set it on its feet, and give it a shove that would send it bowling along on its own motnentum for years to come. * * * * * Cloudy indeed would be our theatrical horizon

i ·! I jl ,, ' II .i !I II ,. I, ;r I: 24 THE CONCORDIENSIS if we couldn't periodically sight dear, old Mar- bury coming in from the south with her first- nighters. She allowed us to \See American First,\ and what we saw was very good. \Very Good Eddie\ suffers with comparison. Broadway, two weeks hence will see the debut of the season's best light opera. And light opera it is-not a pot- J?OUrri of rag-time, girls and a comedian who has made a name. One is >Struck at curtain-rise with its freshness and newness and its \lift.\ To wax graphic, it is a rose in the cabbage patch. In Dorothy Bigelow, l\1iss Marbury scores a grand coup. Never having been behind the footlight'S before, she displays an awkward presence at times, hut she possesses personal charm that will boost her up the theatrical ladder two rungs at a time. She ha>S a soprano voice which is an equally strong forte. The collaborating colleger authors have happily wandered far astray from the beaten paths of plotdom, daring to write of the plain American Indian and the plain American fore>St with never a thought of Vienna or gay Paree. For which daring they will receive great financial returns. Their music is vastly superior, lapsing just once into ragginess-and what a rag that is! \Pitty Me, Plea-se,\ a waltz melody, is the song that the sea- son has been ·waiting for. The wood dance by Clifton Webb and Jeanne Carter, in the admir- able redwood forest scene, is refreshingly above the standard of musical comedy dances. To say the costuming is Marburyesque laudably disposes of it. And the girls give one pleasure unbounded. * * * * * Smashing are gentle this wk. SCALDING SARCASM. SEETHING SATIRE. More inspired advertlsing, this from Puck's editorial column, a queer place, by the way, for an ad: PUCK ON- PROBATION. Parents wh·o have sons at college will brighten n1any an hour of his under the midnight oil by sending a dollar for a three months' subscription, addressed to the dormitory. What magnetic appeal has this ad! What keen insight has the writer into our little eccentricities ot work and play! Why it must be wonderfully graphic to our parents at home. A be-pennanted, be-pipe-racked room they see, with tennis rackets and a copy of Horace tossed on the window-seat. The college boy enters. He is dressed in skull- cap, prodigious sweater and baggy, white trou>Sers, and carries a baseball bat and a megaphone. ''Jove!\ he mutters, sprawling into the windo- seat. \Good old Alma Mater. Ah, she shall win tomorrow!\ Then, noticing the Horace, \Pfah! You bea>Stly old bore!\ Resignedly he €ions an eye- shade; he takes off his shoes and socks, puts on a pink bathrobe, winds a towel around his head and sinks into a princely morris chair with Horace in one hand and a box of bon-bons in the other. \Eh Gad! Brutal examination'S to-·morrow. I n1ust cratn to-night!\ Hours pass unnoticed. The silence is unbroken, save by the gentle tick- ing of his wrist watch. The clock in the chapel bel- fry mournfully tolls thrice through the still night. Suddenly a shrill whistle outside the door; the postmaster enters with a cheery, \Mail from home, dear, old postmaster! Dear, dear, what can it be? i sir!\ The college boy leapoS from his chair. \Ah t • postmaster,\ helping himself to a bon-h on. \Why 1 oh, you dear, old postmaster! Oh, how thoughtful 01: my parents! ThioS is delightful-delightful!\ He runs to the door and screams, \Come come '•. ·· . ..-::: to my rooms, boys! D·O hurry, now! Parents have sent me Puck!\ The cry is caught up by a score of youthful college voices. \Puck! He has a l. ' .... ' i C(hJPY ,oTf hPuck~ Hiph! HI ipp! kH' ipp! Bo,~mT-whhangl- r\.... J w ee. ree tlmest ree. uc . uck .' e co - I! lege president \Sticks his head out of h.is window and yells across the campus, \Now you boys stop your pranks!\ And-but the picture is un- folding in your mind faster than we ca.n describe it Graphic little ad! AND THEY DID NOT SHIRK, IN GAY NEW YORK. The musical men-(not all who wish, go.)- Recently journeyed to far M t. Kisco. Then, tired of concerting always in kirk, They played in a Hotel in gayish New York. WHAT MAKES THE WILD TECH WILD, , BOYS? ''We'll get you, we'll deliver the goods!\ Augured the R. P. I.'s. \When Beavers and Houghton and Teedie Woods Sever collegiate ties- When Houghton and Beavers and Teedie Woods Find they are alumni's!\ \We'll teach you to trifle with old P()lytech !\ Threaten the R. P. I.'s. ''When Jimmy and Izzy and Witty-Olci.-Beck Sever collegiate ties- Providing, of course, that the Woods-Houghton- Beav's Haven't sent sons back to give us the peeves 'Till THEY become alumni'>S !\ NITE. ' ' I t I I· I i . J . ' ., : ., l ' E ] p -

a nd . 1n I bt. e? h, ! \ ' .. ' \ re t· a ' i r~ ys ' ' ' I . t I ,. I i ... ., • .< .i . ~ l . ' ., : ., l ' nFi' 'TZ1 mm=MMF&f\i JOIN OUR CLUB AND OWN A BICYCLE on our easy payment plan, $1 down and $1 a week, and take your choice of the following High Grade Wheels: New England, lver ... Johnson, American, Pope Motor Bike By joining now you secure a discount ot 5, 7 or 10 percent. Let us give you particulars. BURKE, 230 So. Centre St, ~~:o!::I~~-Excelsior an~p~~':.d2~~:. \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 Collelle RepreeeotSitive NEAR BARNEY'S 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store!' Our superior buying facili tie~ insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head'' ~ © #/' OLLAR Sho,vs over the coat in back ; low sharp. smart cut·veaway front; good knot and slide space ~for~5c CLUETT, PEA.BODY 8& CO.,lnc •• Mukers. 'fROY. N.Y. CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean .. ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. WHEN 'Phone 4489 IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

I . i i ~ • • 4 ----;;:-; j 9\ -~ I i Interior View of the \House of Houghton\ ~ j j i I : F I .. The store that has set a new ideal- The store that demands ' leadership by right of conquest. Based upon past performances I j, ·j: I' Our Spring Clothing Announcement ' I i 'I Will follow very soon. Original-Creative-Individual.. A better clothes and furnishings service. Models and fabrics exclusive with this store. HTD 455 STATE STREET Schenectady ~ Art Prest.!

CJtJe CONCORDIENSIS, : VOLUME 39 ~lARCH g, 1916 NO. 17 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY I

I , I I UNION UNIVERSI CHARI..~ES AI..JEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Ceu:rae• leading to the degree of A.. B. CLASSICAl. CouRsE A.-Greek is required for ad ... mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B-This course may be pur sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admissjon to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. 2. Course leading to the degree of Ph. D. LATIN-Scn:NTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading· to tlue degree ot B. S. SciENTIFic CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course ll\adlng to the degree ot B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEF:RING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. G. Course11 leat11ng to gradsat~ degree•. CouRs~t: LEADING To DEGREE o:F M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Couas~ LEADING ro D~GR££ OF ~I. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study eonsists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. COURSF. LEADING TO DEGi~F. OJ! PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of .:vr S . .in E. E. or an eqtdvalent. For catalogues or other in formation address F. C. BARNES, Secretary. Schenectady, N. Y. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925-W DEPART~fENT OF MEDICINE ... ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE 9 Founded 1838-A complete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured ·with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- n1ediate respon-sibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved n1ethods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which ·w·i11 n1eet the highest detnands of modern tnedkal education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- n1ission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Exatninations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory con1pletion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physics, chetnistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and bhnr- atory breakage. The academic year heg·ins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and othc:-r cornmunicationos should be ad- dre~sed to THO\>fAS ORin\: AY, M. D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF I .. AW ALBANY LA \V SCifOOL- This departm~nt of the university is locat~d at Albany, near the st~te capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to t~s use. The course leading to the degre(: of LL. B. ts three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation f~e, $To; • tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or other m formatmn, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Secretary. Albany, N. Y. DEP~~RTMENT OF PI-IA.Rl\1:ACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARlfACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two tern1s of seven n1onths each. Fees. $90.00 ·per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: AtFRF.D. B. HuES'l'F.D, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25o~ DRY CLEAI~ING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from Co!lege Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Srnoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate v tl t Ci li ,, 1 .. ). tt l1 fi n ., h ·;,', ,. '. ~·., s ~.: { <> ll .\ .·. 9. t p t· 1 ,, 11 : l f ·' 1 : I \ ' --.\1~' jt;.- .. ~ ( I' .. .. c ( f 1 . ( 1 \l'

d s e s ,: ·, : ,\ ,·. ' i I' ,:' The Concordiensis --- •• ' ' \ ••• ~ • • • ~ • ' • --~ • ; ~0> ' VOL. 39 MARCH 9t 1916 NO. 11 - --.-··- - -···· ...... , GARN~'l' :SEATS WILLIAMS BY A SINGLE POINT. Y ovi ts Makes Long Field Goal Just Before Final Whistle& A field basket by Yovits and a shot ftotrt the :foul line in the closing n1inutes gave Union a close victory ovet the Wiilian1s quintet in a fast and exciting game at Wil- lianlstown last Wednesday night. The sn1.all court greatly handicapped the Garnet team and they were unable to execute their usual high class pass work. During the first few minutes the Williams players took advantage of the fact that Union was not at home on such a small court and ran up a score which kept them in the running dur- ing the first half and gave thetn the advant-- age in this hal£ by one point. The second half opened with the U :q.ion tean'l trying to pick tip the lost lead and to prevent the Purple from scoring any more~ The efforts of both teams to keep the score low had the effect of causing many personal fouls which would not have Qccurred on a larger court where close guarding would not have been possible. Tovvard the end Williams climbed into the lead and it look- ed as if their wish to win a game was to be accomplished but \Izzy Y ovits dropped in one o£ his long shots trom the center of the ~loor an.d then Zimmer followed. 1 t ttp with a basket from the foul line and the o-ame was . ~ all, over and Union had won by a single ~otnt. , The bright stars of the Union team were Zimmer and Y ovits. \Zip\ played his usual strong game at guard and made five of the points while Yovits at the other gUard posi\' t.ton eclipsed the score of his chief by two. · Scoby played with his head bandaged as a result of a collision with Sittner in practice. Jimmie Mudge gave his usual ex- hibition of advancing the ball but was con ... tent to let the others make the baskets aftet he had brought the ball within striking dis~ tance. Howland, at left for\\vard did the best work £or the Williams team and scored seven of their thirteen points. ~he score;: UNION~ F.B. Scoby, rt ---\--·-·-- 0 Mudge, lf. --·------ 0 Witbeck, c . ._._______ 0 Zin1mer, rg. ---·---- 1 Yovits, lg ............ ;;..,._,..__ 3 4 WILLIAMS. F.B. Dunn, r£. ---------- 0 T~ 1 f 0 L,e emont, r . ..... ......... _ .... _ F. Wright, .rf. ------ o llowland, lf. -~---·· 2 Clark, c. --~----- ,__.c ~ 2 Lewis, c. _____ b_ ..... _.. .... __ 0 Bacon, rg. ___ .... ___ ,..._ 0 Jones, lg. ______ _.____ 1 Referee-Aspinwall. F.P. 0 2 0 3 1 ~ 6 F.P. 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 ! Total 0 2 0 5 7 ~ 14: ~'-fotai 0 0 0 7 -i 0 0 2 1a Fouls committed-Union. ~; Williams, 15.

1. r ]Q THJS CO·N·CORDIENSIS. WESLEY AN FALLS AN EASY VIC- TIM TO UNION. Entire Team Indulges in Scoriag Fest. Saturday night saw Captain Zimmer and company take goo-d revenge over the W es- leyan basketball team for the defeat which we suffered earlier in the season at Middle- town. It was by far the best f\xhi bition of basketball that has been seen on the Union court this year and it seemed as i£ Jimmie 1vi udge were twins or triplets from the way 1n \vhich he cavorted around the floor and broke up play after play. He was easily the star of the contest but the remaining n1en1bers of the caste were not far behind and all took a hand in the scoring and pass work. One bright spot in the play was an exhibition by Jimmie when he carried the ball the length of the floor and found himself under his own basket with no Wes- leyan man around. He could have easily made the basket himself but preferred to pass to Zimmer and \Zip\ made the count. 1'\his shows how the idea of team work has l)een developed and it is not the desire of the players to make counts for themselves but for Union. rrhe fi,rst half was well under way and the Crarnet had run up a total of eight points 1Jefore Harm on succeeded in caging a field goal for Wesleyan. This did not cause Union to stop her scoring but rather acted as an inspiration, for the team kept up the 'vonderful pass work and at the half the score stood 16 to 9 in our favor. During the se-cond half the team worked even better and there was a continual procession of baskets in which all of the members of the team took a share. In this half the best ft'ature of the game was the wonderful work of \Jimmie\ Mudge. He was all over the floor at once, breaking up plays under the Wesleyan basket and then at once going down with the hall for a goal for himself. T-:r is playing has been the feature of the last f e vY ga111es and if he continues his great work the chances are good for a victory over Princeton, who are now tied with Penn for the lead in the Intercollegiate League. 'rhe score: UNION. F.B. F.P. Total Scoby, H. ---------- 3 0 6 Tvfudge, rf. --------- 3 4 10 \Vitbeck, c. -------- 4 0 8 Zimmer, rg. ---·---- 5 1 11 Yovits, lg. --------- 3 1 7 18 6 42 WESLEYAN. F.B. F.P. Total Harmon, If. ----------2 4 8 Pitt, rf. -----·------ 2 0 4 Hoffman, rf. ------- 0 0 0 \i\Tilkinson, c. ------ 1 0 2 l(eith, c. ----------- 0 0 0 Chapin, lg. -------- 0 0 0 Zimmerman, rf. ---- 1 0 2 6 4 16 ~···'! . Score at half time-Union, 16; Wesleyan, , . 9. Fouls committed-Union, 11; Wesleyan. \I ~2. Referee-Deering of Manhattan. U m- ; pire -. Tilden. Time - Twenty minute ! i halves. CHEMICAL SOCIETY INITIATION. Three new members, Morrison '17, W al-j lace '1 7 and Stephens '17 were initiated into 1 the Chemical Society Monday evening, February 28. A general banquet will be , < held some time in May after the spring ini-. t1ation. The next meeting will be held in the lJnion College chapel, Thursday evening, March 9th, at 8 o'clock. The address wil] · be entitled \The Electrolytic Refining of Copper\ and will be given by F. D. Easter- i · brook, a consulting chemical engineer of Al- bany. This n1eeting will be held jointly . -vvith the Society of Engineers of Eastern I'J ew York, and should call forth a large at- i·. tendance.

I' ,, I ' I i -.t>;:' ?.11 ' : ,~:.~~ THE CONCORDIENSIS. ll BUTTERFIELD MEMORIAL. PLANS FOR CHEMISTRY DEPART- MENT. The new building for physics and chem- istry is to be located just east of the elec- trical laboratory, and will face in the same direction as the gymnasium. The entrance IJ) the physical section will be from the lane, while the entrance to the chemical portion will be from the front. The building will have three floors, 55 feet by 120 feet, approx- imately the dimensions of the General Engi- neering building. An office and private laboratory for the assistant professor of chemistry will be at the right of the front entrance while at the left and extending the entire vvidth of the building, will be the laboratory for Quan- titative Analysis, with desk space to ac- commodate about forty students. The bal- ance room for this course V\Till be in the center of the laboratory, and separated from it by glass partitions. The balance ·rootn V\rill open on to the rpain corridor, and will be accessible for students in physical and in- dustrial chemistry, and water analysis. At the right of the corridor, and at the rear of the building will be located the main stock room. Supplementary supply rooms from 'vhich students will get apparatus and chem- icals are to be 1 placed on each floor, and will be connected with each other by a dumb waiter. At the north and front ends of the tuilding, reached frotn the main corridor are to be three laboratories, one for physical chemistry, one in industrial chemistry, and one for sanitary chemistry. The two form- er laboratories will have a floor space of :>,2 feet by 18 feet, and will accommodate from a dozen to fifteen students. The lab- t•ratory for sanitary chemistry, including \vater and gas analysis, will be separated fr 0111 the others by glass partitions, and will accomrnodate ten students. The first floor 1-vill also contain a pump room in which the tnotor generator set, and vacuum and pres- sure pump will be accommodated. At the top of the stairway on the second floor is ~he office of the head of the depart- ment, and adjoining it, the research labora- tory. Opposite the stairway is a separate roon1 for a 1i brary and at the end of the cor- ridor, a laboratory for organic chemistry. The latter will have a floor space of 38 feet by 20 feet, and will accommodate thirty stud- ents. Between the research and the organic laboratories are a balance and a combustion room. The entire north end of the second floor will be occupied by the laboratory for general chemistry. This laboratory will be approximately 55 feet by 32 feet and will contain locker space for 168 students. This laboratory will be lighted from three sides, and will have hood space along the fourth side. Adjoining the general laboratory on the front of the building, is a balance room for the exclusive accommodation of stud- ents in that course. At the top of the stairway on the third floor is the chemical museum and at the back of the building the chemical 1 ecture roon1. with a seating capacity of 160. Across the corridor from the main entrance to the lec- ture room are a preparation r-oom for the illustrative material used in the lecture, and a small supply room for the laboratories on this floor. At the nort!1 end of the Luilding there will be two laboratories for Qualitative Anaylsis, each giving a floor space of 32 feet by 40 feet, and together accommodating 50 students. There will also be on this floor a small confC'rence roon1 with a seating capacity of thirty, and a dis- pensing room for the reagents and other chen1icals used in the course of Oualitative ,.., c-\nalysis. Connected with the preparation room is a small dark room for photographic uses. PROF. EDWARD \BLI.ERY.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 BU~rTERFIELD MEMORIAL. PLANS FOR CHEMISTRY DEP ... t\RT- MENT. 'rhc nevv building for physjc~: and chcnl- i~try is to be located just east of the elcc- 1rical laboratory, and .. will face in the sanH~ cl irection as the gytn nasi u 111. The entrance 1 the physical section vvill be fron1 the lath', v:hile the entrance to the clH:n1ical portion will be fron1 the front. 'fhe building \vil1 have three floors, !>S feet by 120 feet, approx- 1rnately the cli1nensions of the General Engi- neering building. An office and private laboratory for the ;1ssistant professor of chen1istry vvi11 be at the right of the front entrance \vhile at the left and extending the entire \Viclth of the building;, \Yill be the laboratory for Quan- titative 1\nalysis, \Yith clesk space to ac- ~:onllnodate ctbout forty students. tfhc hal- :~nce roon1 for this course \\·ill be in the 't·nter of the laboratory, and separated fro1n it by glass partitions. tfhe 11alancc roon1 will open on to the 1pain corridor, and \\·ill l,e ~lcce~sible for students in physical and in- dustrial cl1en1i~try, and \\·ater analysis. \\t the right of the corri<lor, ancl ~lt the rear of the building \\Till he located th~ 1nain stocl.: rpon1. Supple1nen tary supply roon1s fron1 'l·hich students vvill get apparatus and chen1- irals are to be placed on each floor. and \vi11 ! e connectcc1 \vith each other by a dtnnh \\·aiter. .l\t the north and front encls of the luilding, reached fro1n the n1ai1~ corridor are tn he three laboratories. one for physical l·hen1istrv, one in inclustrial chen1istrv. and . - 1 'nc for ~anitarv che1nistrY. T'he t \\·o fonn- - - vr lahora.torie~~ \vill ha\T a floor spare of :! ·! feet h y 1 ~ feet . and \ v 111 a c co 1 n n 1 o cl at e l 1 ·on1 a doz.c11 to fifteen student~. ~The lab- ~ ,,-;,tory for sanitary chcmisi.ry. inclu<l1ng :' ;1ter ;tnd gas analysis. vvi11 he ~eparated :t()J11 thr others hy glass partition~. ~tnrl \\·111 accon1 n1oda te ten students. 1'h e first floor \vi11 also contain a purnp roon1 in \vhich the n1otor generator set, anci. vacuun1 and pres- ~ure pun1p \vill be accon1n1odatecl. At the top of the stairvvay on the second iloor i:-; the office of the head of the depart- n1cnt, and adjoining it, the re~>carch labora- tory. Opposite the stair\vay i~ a separate roon1 for a library and at the encl of the cor- ridor, a laboratory for organic chctnistry. The latter will have a floor sp;tcc of 38 feet by '20 feet, and \vill accon1n1oclai·_· thirty stud- ents. Bct\vccn the research and the organic laboratories are a bal a nee and a co1n hus ti n11 room. The entire north end nf the second floor will be occupied by the laboratory for ~·en era 1 ch ctnistry. T'h is 1 a bora t orv vvill he approxitnately i>:> feet by ;)·2 feet and \\·ill contain locker space for lGci students. 'fhis laboratory vvill be lighted fro111 three sides. 2.nd vvill haYe hood space along· the fourth side. ;\dj oining the general labor a tory· on the front of the building, is a balance roon1 for the exclusi,·e acconlnHHlatjon of stud- ents in that course. t\.t the top of the stair\\·ay on the third floor is the chemicaltnuseun1 and at the l)ack of the building the chetn1cal h·t:ture r<l·)l]'. vvith a seating capacity of 1 GO. :\eros~ tht· t.orridor fron1 the tnain entrance to the lee~ t u re roon1 arc a prcpara tion t\c H )111 for t h (' 1llustrati\·e n1atcrial usccl in tht· lectun>, and ;1 srnall supply roon1 for tht• lahorator1e~ <~n this floor. :\t the nort~i end uf the· Luilding- there \vi11 he t\\·o L!.lH~r:ttl)ri~._,..., i{l!\ Qualitative :\naylsis, each giYing a floor- ~pacc of ;~~ feet by -l 0 f ect. and t ()g·etlH'I .. accon11nodating .')() student~. '!'here \Yi1l ;1lso be on this floor a sn1all conrt'JT11\.'t' rtH•tll ,,·ith a ~eating· capacity of thirt: ;tnd ;t di.., 1' e 11 s 1 n g roo 111 for t b e rea g c r 11 ~ an d ( l t 1 H T chetnical~ used in the course nl ()ualitati\'C' \ n a h· si ~. Connect ('d \Vl t h t lH' prcp;tr~t t in11 1 ontn 1~ a sn1a1l dark roon1 fnr l)h(}tl ).~T~tp hi~._'

i ·' ' ! . '., l I I I f I t I : I ' 12 'J:HE · CONCO·RDIENSIS. I • THE PHYSICS DEPARTMENT. 'fhe south end ·Of the new science build- ing will be used for physics, the physics en- ~rance facing south, and the p~ans having been drawn in such a way that the build- ing can be extended along the North Col- lege Lane, toward the electrica11aboratory, as the needs of the physics department in .. crease. In the building as now designed, physics will have about 6,000 square feet, instead of 4:,000 square feet as at present. On the ground floor will be the second and third year laboratory, a small work shop, a battery and switch room, a store-room, and a lava- tory. The second floor will contain a large first year laboratory, a smaller room for spectrometer work, and a dark room tor photometric experiments. On the third floor will be the lecture and preparation rooms, an apa~ratus storage room, a research laboratory, a small room equipped espec- ially for chemical work, a filing room £or records, also office, and a library. Provision will be made for complete equip- ment in every detail of installation. It is planned to spend $5,000 toward this end at once, and additional appropriations will be 1nade as funds are available. PROF. HOWARD OPDYKE. REV. MR. MICOU SPEAKS AT VESP:gR SERVICE. At the vespers on Sunday afternoon, Mcurch 5, the Rev. Mr. Micou was the speak= cr. Mr. Micou is a graduate of the U niver- sity o£ Vh·ginia and is now connected with the International Y. M. C. A. His. general theme was \The Choosing of One's Life W ork.H He spoke largely on the ministry as a calling. Mr. Micou told of the advant- ages and the disadvantages which the min- istry had to offer, and brought out how a minister meets people of every walk in life. At the close of his talk, Mr. Micou int·ro- duced two Colgate Seminary students. 1\1 r. 'I'urrell and Mr .. Robertson, who gave s·hort addresses. Mr. Turrell talked on how the \,.. M. C. A. had benefited him, while Mr .. I~ obertson outlined the coming student con-... ference to be held at Auburn on March 18 a:nd March 19. 'rhere were only about 20 ·students present to hear these spea~ers, but all agreed that the time was well spent. ATHLETIC })INNER .. The committee for the third annual ath..- letic dinner, given by the Ptress Club, has been picked and the. following men have been elected to take charge of the dinner: D. F. Chapman, chairman; C. Lester, B. ~\faylor and Hauenstein. The dinner is an annual af£air intended primarily as an expression of appreciation to the athletic teams £or the work they have done during the year. It has, however, al-- ways proved to be a general get-together tor the faculty, undergraduates, and alumni. The banquet will be served in the gym, and besides a sumptuo·us menu, the Press Club will offer for approval a number of our faculty, alumni, and student speakers, of which there is· a goodly store. MUSICAL CLUBS. Joint Concert With Amherst .. On March twenty-fi.trst, the Union College Glee Club will give a concert at Gloversville. During the following week a joint concert will be given by the Union and Amherst clubs. This Co·ncert will be held in the. Union College gymnasium. One overtu.re will be given by the. clubs together. The alumni have been at work on this concert and the plans are progressing rapidly. The Amherst Glee Club expected to go to i\lbarty and meet Governor Whitman after the concert, but on account o£ the gover- nor;s absence from Albany they will remain here tor the dancing which will be enjoyed after the concert. Tl new placi and Tl ever: nam~ scho of tl tn V\ acth be f be l refet Pres con' of t man ~ent acti, pap€ Uni~ the: schc lTni\ puh uatc: itieE It clut: ed · mar cha: forr T fi lli] in l futt A sol< offi Stu

I . I' I I !. PRESS CLUB. procure them at once, as any S\t1rplus supply Installs New System of R.ecords. will be sent to various preparatory schools The Press Club is extremely busy with its throughout the country. new winter program for advertising and placing before the public eye, the activities and reputation of Union. The latest undertaking is to obtain fro1n every student, a registry card, giving the name, home address, together with the school and local papers. On the reverse of the card are proper blanks, to be filled in with records of the student's important activities while in Union. These cards will be filed in the Press Club office, and will be kept up-to-date and ready for instant reference. This information V\<'\ill allow the Press Club to obtain quickly, concisely and conveniently, a full and complete record of the important accomplishments of any man in college. Such information will be ~ent from time to time, as the student's activities increase, to his school and ho-me papers, so that the student and indirectly Union, will be brought to the attention of the general public, preparatory schools, high schools and academies throughout the lJ ni ted States. News will also reach alumni publications, and thus tend to keep grad- uates in touch with present day college activ- ities. In order to increase the efficiency of the club, Dr. Morton C. Stewart has been elect- ed to the recently created office of news manager. Dr. Stewart will have direct charge of all news items, supervising their form~ direction, and time of publication. The Press Club is, more than ever befor-e, filling an important and responsible position in Union College life, and has a prosperous future before it. A few of the 1916 calendars remain un- sold, and these can be obtained at the College office at the reduced rate of fifty cents each. Students desiring such calendars should Y. M. C. A. NOTES. \Steve\ Story Resigns - Mission Study Classes Progressing. On March 1, S. B. Story '12, who has been general secretary of the College Christian A.ssociation since he graduated; resigned to take up new work in NeV\.~ York City. Story was in the electrical department in college and is now with the Bureau of Municipal Research in New York. The cabinet is to take charge of the work at Silliman Hall for the remainder of this year. Doctor Hoffman's class in missions have already covered one-half of the course which has been so far very interesting and worth \Vhile. The course has had the best attend- ance of such for the last fevv years. Pro- fessor Taylor's class meets every Friday af- ternoon instead of Wednesday as it was first announced. The association is planning- some depu- tation work within the near future. Sunday Mr. Paul Micon of the University of Virginia was here in behalf of the Inter- na tiona! Committee on life work. The claims of the .University were presented. rv.rr. A. F. Robertson and Mr. \V .S. Turrell of Colgate Seminary were h~re also last vveek-end to help Mr. Micon. Mr. Turrell spoke in chapel on Monday ~bout the con- ference for college men at Auburn Semin- ary the latter part of the month. The con- ference is especially interesting to us be- cause President Richmond was asked to give one of the addresses. Unfortunately Dr. Richmond did not have an open date at that time. Information to anyone interest- ed tnay be obtained at Silliman Hall. A delegation will be sent from the college as \vas last spring to Hartford.

! l I'! \.:: di . II • I . I, ' : I I \) \ I' . I I II ' I 1: I : ' I· i : I\, : \ • I I! I iiI I I ' : ,· ,: , I· :I . lt I I , •• : I . I i 1· : il . I . I l I I , II . I • I ' ' ; l I , \ ! ' I ! \ i ' ! 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. SENIOR'S WIN CLASS TRACK MEETe ~rhe first of the series of inter-clas& track tneets was won by 1916 with 19 3-4 points. 1917 was second with 15 3-4, 1919 third, with 13 3-4 points, and 1918 fourth with 5 3-4 points. The object of holding indoor inter-class meets, besides the training and practice of rnen to develope them into 'varsity material, is to give the men experience and confidence under the strain of actual competition. There will be two more. meets held, March 10th and 1 'lth, and probably a handicap meet later in the month. The handicaps will be ar- ranged according to performances in the in- ter-class meet series. With plenty of indoor work a well balanced team can be built up before the out door work starts. The results of the fi,rst meet were very satisfactory and are as follows: 40 yard dash-First, Morrison, 1917; sec- ond, Mallen, 1916; third, Taylor, 1918; fourth, Downs, 1917. Time, 4: 4-5 seconds. 12 pound shot put-First, Stoller, 1916; second, Hay, 1918; third, Bowman, 1919; fourth, Mallen, 1916. Distance, 41 feet 6 inches. Running high jump-First, I\.1allen, 1916; second, Jamieson, 1917; third, tie, DeRose, !.919, Stoller, 1916 ,Loughlin, 1917, Frasier, 1918. Height, 5 feet 1-2 inch. 40 yard low hurdles-First, Mallen, 1916; second, De Laplante, 1919; third, Morrison, ] 917; fourth, Jamieson, 191 'I. Time 5 2-5 f;econds. Half mile run-First, Stebbins, 1919; sec- ond, Loughlin, 1917; third, Watts, 1919; fourth, Davidson, 1919. Time, 2 minutes 18 seconds. 1917 GARNET. Many New Cuts to Be Used. T_he 1917 Garnet is well under way, and the Editorial Board promise an exception- ally fine book, £rom cover to cover. The printers, H amilto11 Co., of i\.lbany, expect to have the edition ready for distribution about May 1st. A feature of the new Gar-- net will be the large number of cuts, all ne·w is year, and the original work of student:-; at college. Art Editor Clements has taken much time ~nd trouble to see that only the best of the large number of pic- tures handed in should be publish- ed, and the result of his labor will be shown when the Garnet appears. Another radical itnprovement will be made in the usual style of Garnets by the addition, to the regular photographs of the junior class, of a large number of snap-shots of the mem- bers of the class of '17 in more familiar at- titudes. This promises to be one of the most pleasing features of the entire work. It has been decided to dedicate this year's Gatrnet to Dr. March, and the choice is sure to be popular. Mandeville and the other mem- bers of the board, who are working at ful1 pressure, request that all copy be in by the 14th of March and would prefer to have it sooner if possible. To make the Garnet the success it should and deserves to be, it is necessary that a large sale be made, an~ the board has the right to expect that the student body will stand back of them and subscribe in large numbers. Beside being a pleasure to own and keep one of these records of another college year, of its teams, its organizations. this feature of college work with the needed financial support as it is to subscribe to the ''Concordy,'' attend the athletic contests, or its activities, it is just as necessary to back the social functions of the winter. SON OF PRESIDENT ELIPHALET NOTT DIES IN NEW YORK. Colonel Charles C. N ott, '48, son of Presi- dent Eliphalet N ott, died in New York on March 6th, at the age of eighty-nine years. Upon Col. Nott's graduation from Union in 1848, he entered the law firm of Clarkson. Nott and Potter in New York. When the ,,; I •'{ ' .I 'l ' ;( ,, ,;~ tl i I I ! ' '' I I . I I ' f .. ! Civi prtv so or the: . pns~ leas heal T l,inj Cciu secc Jus1 ·' pOSl c Cha Iv!a: 1 . 1 lfi Phi Ad1 co I ent Jur the ter far1 Ge1 wa vvh . Jec . 1SC1 on clef He the for v·e1 . ClV ~st th~ dis

THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 Civil War broke out, Col. Nott enlisted as a private and was wounded in Tennessee. He soon a:-eturned to the ranl\:s again. and rose to the grade of colonel before he was taken as a prisoner of war in Louisiana. He was re- leased after thirteen months, because of ill health. Three months before his assassination, I.incoln appointed Col. N ott as justice of the Court of Claims. In President Cleveland's second term, Col. N ott was appointed Chief Justice of the Court of Claims, from which position he reti1red in 1905. Colonel N ott is survived by his son, Judge Charles C. N ott, of the Court of Sessions of IV! anha ttan. PHILO.MANTHEANS WIN The Allison-F·oote debate which was held in the Chapel last night was won by the Philomanthean Society Clyde Heatly of the Adelphic Society won the individual prize. COLGATESTUDENTSMUSTPAY$500 FOR HAIR CUT. Presumably some of the Colgate stud- ents are pondering whether their frolic of June 10, last, was worth the $500 which the jury said was young Eddy's due. Wal- ter J. Eddy, son of a well-to-do Madison farmer, sued Richard H. Devine, Louis J. Genessee, Munroe Goode and Ferris J. Ed- wards, Colgate students, for being the ones vvho caused him to be humiliated and sub- jected to having his hair cut rather prom= iscuously on the public square at I-Iatnilton on the evening of June 10, last, when the defendants were celebrating moving up day. He asked for $5,000 damages, but the jury thought a lesser amount would be sufficient for his pains and the edification of the uni- v·ersity students into the mysteries of the civil practice our courts. 'The students ~stablished perfect alibis and the case of the plaintiff was equally stron~ for him so a disagreement was looked for frotn the jur.y. SENIOR CLASS. APPOINTMENTS. At a n1eeting of the senior class Tuesday noon the following committees were appoint- ed by President Glenn : . Cap and Gown-Mercer, Keleher, Creble. Invitation-Newton, Howd, Baker. Banquet-Hauenstein, Zimmer, Churchill. Song-Sternfeld, Gardner, De Rouville. Class Memorial-Danner, Landreth, Gun- ntng. Program-Soler, Dikeman, Santee. Class Day-Finch, Brunet, Stoller. NOTICE. Registration Cards Nece·ssary at Princeton Game. According to an announcement made by the basketball management no student will be admitted to the Princeton game Saturday night without showing his registration card and none but students will be allowed to sit in the cheering section. Students bringing friends must secure reserved seats for them. CLASSICAL CLUB. The Classical Club met Tuesday evening, February 29th. R. E. Taylor read a delight- ful paper, entitled, \1.'he Great T dea,\ to the members. \The Great Idea\ is the dream or hope o£ the Greeks that Greece will some day control all o£ Asia Minor and the eastern !viediterranean sea and thus regain their lost power and glory. The paper showed that despite the great war in Europe, the Greeks have not given up the hope of reestablishing themselves as a leading world power. In the general discussion which followed, this Great Idea was compared to the Zion- ist movement. That is, the hope of the an- cient Hebrew nation to become a great world power. Sky-high isn't the word for dry goods. Everything from cotton to silk is way up- nearly to the knee. Leather is following 1~retty closely too.

i ; I I I.; J1 I ti i /,I li !' I i I'·· II : i I I I . .. 1·. I·. ' L1. 1 I i:' , I! 16 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS above resolution was proposed in Athletic Board meeting in order that a general dis .. cussion might take place, and in order that no action would be taken that would later prove injurious to Union College athletics. A Literary and News Weekly Pu:bHsh~d by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., a'S Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. W. Schwartz, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 II. Vv. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. This issue is eduited by F. W. Porter. ONE SEMESTER RULE. Resolved, First, that the Athletic Board of Union College adopt the One Semester Rule barring students from participation in varsity athletics during their :first semester. Second, That it go into operation in the fall of 1917. 'fhird, 'That the question o£ eligibility of students entering college in the fall of 1916 be referred with power to the Student Acti- vities Committee of the faculty. * * * * * The exceedingly poor scholarship of the class of 1919 has n1ade it advisable to alter conditions as much as possible, so that such a situati.on will not arise in the future. Con ... ditions of this kind arise in some cases fron1 participation in student activities. The The same question also arises from another source and that has to do with the strict- ness or laxness, as the case may be, of our eligibility requirements. The One Senles- ter Rule would vi tally affect football at .Union, and po measure should be adopted which would later prove detrimental to the coUege and this branch of athletics. The alleged advantages of this syste1n are that the freshman would have greater op- portunities for study after entering college, and it would tend to do away with proselyt- ing. The fact is obvious that the freshman upon entering college should devote as much time as possible to his studies, and no doubt participation in student activities lowers his class standing. Proselyting does not apply in our case, for inducements are never of- fered to athletes, to the best of our knowl-· edge. In fact this is one of the fundamen- tal principles upon which our athletics are based. The disadvantages of the system seem to practically balance the positive argu~ tnents._ Most of the colleges in New York State, and the colleges which draw their students from the same localities as Union, do not have this rule, hence they would have a marked advantage. Again, our foot .. ball squad has never been large enough to permit dispensing with the aid of the fresh- tnen._ This rule in turn would necessitate a freshman team which would require the san1e amount of time as does varsity foot- ball. It is true that several of the New England I I .;; i I . , I ! ' ,.-; collt ed r take stre com ful < the first mer pro 1 sch< to I run on 1 bod bot] resc tire b 1n 1 nan fres Stu ty . v tha· dov ~nd of~ con pre as l iab: fish I slo, A.lr Ca1 SOll

' . ,- ~·~ ~· ,. \~ ~ ' ,.' 1', ' ::t ' . THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 colleges with whotn we have recently open-- ed relations have this rule, but it must be taken into consideration that Union's strength on the athletic field has been o£ comparative recent growth. .After a care- ful consideration o£ the subject it seems that the time is not yet ripe to adopt either the first or the second provisions o£ the above mentioned resolution. However, the third provision would act for the good of the scholarship of all the freshmen who desire to play football and would not in the long run prove injurious to the standing o£ Union on the gridiron. We feel that in the student body there is a marked sentiment against both the first and the second articles o£ the resolution and we are also sure that the en- tire student body would uphold the faculty in putting into operation the third clause; namely, that the question of eligibility of freshmen be referred with power to the Student Activities Committee of the facul- ty. SONGS AND SINGING. We have often urged from these col un1ns that the Union men whose pipes are lit con1e down to the campus by the light of the n1oon ~nd sing a song of victory or any other kind of song that occasion demands. Then there comes a half-hearted chirp of enthusiasm and pretty soon we sink back into the san1e rut as before. The singing at Union is unden- iably bad. It is as weak as the proverbial fish. But it is not only in volume that we are slow. We have lapsed into reliance upon i\lma Mater and \Come Now to the Campus\ for our entire repetoire. There are songs which are printed in the Freshman Bible that one never hears £rom one year end to the other. There are class songs which might just as well never have been written, for all the service to the college they are now. The purpose of the Fitzhugh Ludlow cup was to improve undergraduate singing, to add new songs to Union's list. It has not done so. This is not the fault of the donor. It is the fault of song leaders and student body. \By the Light of the Moon\ is Union's most distinctive song, and its use is very, very rare. It should be easy for under- graduate ingenuity to compose additional verses to this. Our Marching Song is anoth ... er rollicking melody rapidly passing into the discard. The Union Rally Song is a total stranger, as is the second verse o£ \When Foes are Come.\ If we can't have any new songs, at least let us keep the ones we have. They are too good to be lost. Song and cheer leaders, wake up ! Your position is one of respon- sibility. It is you who must safeguard Union's songs and singing. Just lea·d us in some of the unfamiliar songs and see wheth- er we can't do a little more in this directiort. TREASURES OF OUR CHAPEL. No college is richer in illustrious names and in historical associations than our own Union. A determined effort is being made to revive these associations and to preserve carefully every memorial of the college. In accordance with this move, portraits of sev- eral of the most distinguished executives, professors and graduates were placed behind the rostrum in the chapel. The purpose is to make the chapel a kind of shrine where illustrious names shall be preserved and brought to memory by their portraits. Itn .. tnediately behind the rostrum is a ful11ength

I I I. : I . I : :~ I ,. I· I I' l ,,, . I ~ , , . I. ' , I I I , I I. 1.: I ' II I ' , I . I I j, '' i I I ' I I j :! ll :I . :j 18 'rHE CONCORDI~NSIS. figure of Dr. Eliphalet Nott who played a very prominent role in the early develop- nlent of Union. To the right of Dr. N ott's portrait and above is a portrait o£ President Smith, the first president of the college. He - \'·as a graduate of Princeton and served as president of .Union from the time of its founding in 1795 till 1799. Below Presi- dent Smith's portrait is a portrait of Jona- than Edwards, son of President Jonathan F.dwards of Princeton. Jonathan Edwards, Junior, was president of Union from 1799 until his death in August, 1801. Under his presidency the building known as West College was begun on the old site of the campus below the canal. This building was used for the residence of £reshmen and sophomores until 1854 when it became the Union Classical Institute. On the left o·f Dr. N ott's picture and above is the portrait of Laurens Hickok, famous as a philosopher, and successor to Dr. Nott. He vvas presi- dent fro1n 1866 until1868. Below the picture of President Hickok is a portrait of Frances Wayland a graduate of Union and one of the greatest figures in American education. He afterwards became president of Brown University. Below the balcony on the left is a portrait of Taylor Lewis, the most dis- tinguished Oriental scholar of his day and head of the Greek department. Below the balcony on jhe right is a portrait of Ichabod Spencer of the class of 1822, in vvhose mem- ory Mrs. Leavitt, his daughter, endowed the chair of philosophy and the Ichabod Spen- cer lecturship in psychology. He was first pastor of the Spencer Memorial Church of Brooklyn and was at one time elected presi- dent of Hamilton College. It would certain- ly be to the point for every Union student to locate these pictures and oe able to des- cribe them to the many strangers that visit our chapel. Headline in N. Y. American: \Wont re- turn, missing organist's note says.\ MR. CRAM SPEAKS ON GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE. Monday evening Mr. Ralph Adams Cram spoke on\ The Beginnings of GothicArchitec~ ture\ in the first of the third pair of Spencer lectures. Dr. Richmond introduced him by telling the Scotch proverb that \no man has fulfilled his mission in the world until he has written a good book, built a good house or had a good son.\ Mr. Cram, he assured the audience met all three of these quali- fications, but would limit his discourse to the subject of architecture. . Mr. Cram gave in brief a history of G-othic architecture having its origin indi- rectly, through the Lombard, Byzantine and Syrian styles back to Rome itself. He explained with great technical skill and nicety the beauty of Gothic architecture and its adaptability of form to the end it sub- served. The grace and elegance of the typi- cal Gothic structure, as we know it came directly from a scientific attempt to save building expense by reduction of amount of material used. To an architect like Mit. Cram, archi- tecture means much more than to the lay :m..ind. \In Gothic A1rt,\ said he, \it is the spirit not the form that gives it life.\ Gothic art strove to express to men the un- at-tainable and was a symbolic expression of otherwise unattainable ideas,\ \Gothic art was sacramental and is in conformity with life which is essentially sacramental. Mr. Cram called Gothic the most com- petent and inspired architecture and dis- cnssed the three influences which were back of it. These were the traditional influence of Rome, the ethical influence of the northern races, the Franks, Lombards and Burgundians and the all-embracing influ- ence of Catholicism. ·( •l ;: ' ,' i ,, ':! ' ~ .;·\ '. ,. .' ~:;t ';: ... .. ' ,. ''\ I .. t' ~ lVPF Dr. Ivp the fi Dr. 1' Class Class 18. ,.. itself with piter: as tl chan logg lang- shov now ance spec first repe T Jacc Stei l(er Kin Yo1 He; Po( Ke1 P:R Ba Ur we pic Cc lee If tie p( P1 se

... '.'\ I • . t' ~ THE CONCORDIENSIS. 19 IVPPITER MIMVS TO BE GIVEN BY CLASSICAL CLUB. Dr. Kellogg the Author of the Farce. Ivppiter Mimvs, a farce in Latin, based on the :first satire of Ho-race, and written by Dr. Kellogg, is to be given by the College Classical Club before the Upper Hudson Classical Club in the High School on March 18. The satire around which the farce turns itself deals with the discontentment of men with their own stations in life. When Jup- piter, however offers to change their stations as they have stated in their desires, they change their minds. In the farce, Dr. Kel- logg has very cleverly modernized both the language and the characters. In it, he has shown that the sati1re is just as applicable now as in the time of Horace. The perform- ance before the Classical Club will be a species of dress rehearsal for it will be the first performance. Later on the play will be repeated. The list of characters are as follows: Jacobs ------------------------- Prologue Stein -------------------------- J uppiter l(ennedy, L. Smit~ _____ Slaves of J uppiter King -------------------------- Rusticus Younie ------------------ Juris Consultus Heatley -------------------------- Miles Poersch ---------------------- ~aufragus Ketchum ------------------------ Caupo PRINCETON ONE OF THE LEADERS IN BASKETBALL RACE. CLASS BASKETBALL. Juniors Stand in ·First Position. The situation in class basketball at this time is a critical one, the junior and sop- homore quintets being the contestants for final victory. If the sophomores win their contested game with the seniors, as it seems pro hable they will do, both 1 \/ and 18 will have the same tally-4 won and 2 lost. This will mean that the decisive game must be fought between these two classes. If the juniors win, it will be their thir.d victory in class basketball and will therefore give them the silver cup which stands as a prize to that class winning the class basketball championship for three years. Class basketball this year has been spirit- ed and unusually even. The games as a \\vhole have been an improvn1ent on those of former years, whereas a few particular contes~s have proved exceptionally inter- esting. Two faults, however, have been evident. In the first place, the teams have not practiced sufficiently and in the second the student body has not supported the gatnes as it should have done. T·he line-up of the two leading teams will probably be: 1917 1918 Jenkins ------------------------- Peaslee Center. Friday ---------------------------- Hay w·anace ---------------------- Lefkowitz Forwards. The race this year in the Intercollegiate Basketball League is most sensational. Until Tuesday Pennsylvania and Princeton were tied for :first place. Pennsylvania played its last game Tuesday night against Cornell and won. This placed Penn in the lead. This evening Princeton plays Cornell. If Princeton wins she will have to play off a tie with Pennsylvania, while if Cornell wins Pennsylvania will take the championship and Princeton will have to content herself with second place. Goodman ----------------------- Calkins Rosecrans ---------------------- Fancher Guards. The standing of the teams is as follows: Won. Lost P.C. 1917 ---------------- 4 2 .666 1918 ---------------- 3 2 .600 191~ ---------------- 2 3 .400 1916 ---------------- 1 3 .250 Two games remain to be played. One be- tween 1916 and 1918 and one between 1916 and 1919.

' ' ' ' : i !' jl: I j, ,, i I ·I I I I ~,: , I I, i I I i I :. l ' I , 'I ; ; ' ' ' . l i' I ' 20 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. DR. RlCHIVIOND READS MASE- FIELD'S POEMS AT SIGMA PHI PLAiC'E'. Last Wednesday afternoon at an informal smoker at Sig:~n:a. Phi Place Dr. Richmond read some of Masefield's poems, preceding the lecture by Mr. Masefield himself Friday evening. Severa:1 tnembers ot the faculty and student body were present and enjoyed Dr. Richmond's renderings very much. Dr. Richmond divided his reading into groups of three or four poe:rn.s each. The titles of the groups aJre as fo 1lows: uThe Hard Lot of the Sailor,\ \Sup-erstitntions of the Sailor,\ HBuccaneers an« Pirates,', \Love of the Sea,\ and \A Sailor's Longing for Home.\ He read some other poems also, which he did not assign to groups. Some of them are as follows: '(Truth,'' '~Tomorrow,\ and five of the Sonnets. A peculiar coincidence was that fact that the poems l\ir. Masefield read were practi-cally· the same ones Dr. Richmond had selected to read. MASEFIELD LECTURES IN COLLEGE CHAPEL. Celebrated English. Poet Talks on English Poetry. ~rhe lecture by fohn Masefield, the English poet, Friday evetting, March 3, was largely attended by students and townspeople. In treating his subject, \English Poetry,\ Mr. l\1asefield conveyed a vivid impression of his ideals and aspirations in his art-to be the poet of the peo:ple, the English people; to g\i ve an expression of their traits, sufferings, and pleasures ; to consecrate in his verse places and scenes dear to then1 ; and to be a poet read by the common people, not by a small esoteric class of the cultured. He de- c:lared that since the new learning can1e in before Shakespeare, most English poets have rot fulfilled these ideals, but have been the poets of the few belonging to educated and refined society. Following his lecture Mr. ~1 asefie1d re- cited several of his poerns, and also told a few tales of the sea and of sailors, which he ~aid were told him when he was a boy, learning to tie knots, his fi,rst lessons in sea- manship, from an old sailor who had sailed the sea in the days when the swift sailing vessels were competing with steam power. The following is a rough summation of his lecture: The earliest poems were about fighting and great events. Story-telling came to its perfection in Chaucer. He is representative of England in his art, wisdotn, and charact- er; his gentleness, tenderness, and humor are pre-eminently English. His poetry contains no profound thoughts, no criticism of life, Lut it does contain an appreciation of life. Some poets hold aloof from the world; Chaucer did not. He went into the market- place to see men and women, their suffer- ings and pleasures. After Chaucer there came a new inspira- tton, of g1radual growth, which burst in the Elizabethan drama. Too much is said of this poetry and not enough done. The , ~1izabethan plays are not acted through. I 8hould like to see them acted, and acted on sn1all stages like the Elizabethan stages, for which they were written. The poets of the Elizabethan period fall into two classifications; Shakespeare and the others. Shakespeare has been called gentle ; but he is 1nore than gentle; he is just. He renders a just account of life; says nothing in malice or with party or sectarian interest; he looks on all with cha~rity and balances wrong with retribution. The Reformation which made Shakes- peare and the others, came with the new learning, which divided Europe into two can1ps,-the learned and the unlearned. No- where were these two classes more plainly tnarked than in England. Since then Eng- lish poetry has been for the few. Keats says that the poet should be the \friend of man,\ but few poets have bridged the gulf between the educated and the uneducated. Of these ( ,, . i I' ,-:., . ' '';' ~ ;< £, ~ ~ .. ~ < few w appea poem stanz, Bngli Gray. those one p Th was 1 ious the E tle, a: the 1c Af dres~ and and j tell:g ; 1S Wt gent: an (1 deni1 save deny w only the~ he v phib erat: WlS~ You are . ' tan: darl not poei and rea< Gra she' c.rit of ' j 1111( ~on cl a~

' \ ,, i I· ,-:., • !..' THE CONCORDIENSlS. 21 few was Matthew P~rior. Four stanzas which appear in the middle of an exceedingly silly poem .of his (Mr. Masefield quoted the stanzas) are the most affecting found in English poetry all the way from Milton to Gray. There was little of the tenderness of those stanzas in the eighteenth century, but one poet had it,_._Thomas Gray. The \Elegy in a Country Church Yard\ was the exp1ression of an outburst of relig- ious feeling in England. I like to think of the English soldiers repeating it before bat- tle, as I have heard them repeating it during the last year. After Gray came a demand that poets ad- dress simple men; Wordsworth did this, and Blake. Blake's spirit was so thwarted and contorted that his poetry became unin- tell:gible brooding, but one thing he said is worth more than what he wrote. To a gentleman who was condemning Voltaire as an atheist Blake retorted, \Yes Voltaire denied the Holy Spirit, and he shall be saved. But they shall not be saved who deny the Holy Spirit and ·voltaire.\ Wordsworth sought tranquility. He had only written half a dozen great poems when the government granted him a pension; then he went to sleep and never woke up. The philosophy of Byron was popular for a gen- eration, until his disciples grew older and wiser. The essence of his thought vvas: Yott should not be like George III. If you are wandering in the moonlight on a Grec- ian isle, wrapped in a black cloak, and with a dark eyed maiden at your side, you will not be like George III. None of these poets bridged the gulf between the learned and the unlearned. Their poems never reached the multitude. 1'he shepherds of Grassmere never honored Wordsworth as the shepherds o£ Thessalay honored Thea- c.ritus. When these men died, a new class of. readers had arisen and the poet of the 1n1ddle class had come into being,-Tenny-- ~on. He was chaJracteristic of the middle class in his vi1rtues,-patriotism and kind- ness-·· and in his defects,-mockishness and sameness. Against the middle class ideals Browning and Swinburne revolted. We are too near them to judge them. Perhaps they took too many of their subjects from books, sculptures, and works of art and not enough from the common stuff of daily life. They are monuments of a refined and educated so- ·- ciety. I will say nothing of living poets. After the period of misery which follows the war will come a period of recreation. Perhaps the English mind will be quickened to new inspiration, to a social and democratic in- spiration, and the poets of that time will sing a new song more glorious than any ever sung before. I hope to be alive to see that time. MR. CRAM CONTINUES LECTURE ON ARCHITECTURE. Tuesday evening Mr. Cram concluded the lecture on Gothic architecture begun Mon- day evening. The lecture was an amplifica- tion o£ the previo-us one and the two cov- ered the history of Gothic architecture from the fall of the Roman empire to the Renais- sance. Mr. Cram drew a ca['eful distinction be- tween culture and civilization. In the mid- dle ages there was a high state of culture, but a low civilization. Greece representerl high culture but low civilization; Rome the opposite. Architecture, the speaker explained, was a synthesis-a putting together of all the other arts, without which it could not exist. Mr. Cram compared the two great cathed- rals o£ Paris and Nantes. The one was famous for its exterior; the other for·its in- • ter1or. Rhein1s represented the swerving in ar- chitecture from art to science. At Rhein1~ ~nd Amiens are still to be found a style of French sculpture that antedates Italian sculpture by a century.

~ I ! I I ·I I I I I J' l ! I : I I I . ' I . I ; I I 22 THE CONCORDIBNSIS. Mr. Cram dwelt for a tin1e on the value of the guild system as a means of produc- ing skilled artisans and its excellent ,results as seen in mediaeval architecture. He then explained how he was supervising the build- ing of a large church near Philadelphia. Not only was the church being built in Mediaeval style but the organization of labor was as nearly as possible Mediaeval and the results were amazing. Mr. Cram concluded by saying that there \Vas a great war between culture and civ- ilization and that only a culture based on religion would be a winning culture. ANNIVERSARY OF SHAKESPEARE'S DEATH COMMEMORATED. The tercentenary of Shakespeare's death ·will be celebrated here by a play written and acted by a group of sophomores who, with Dr. Chase, have been pursuing a course of reading in the contemporaries of Shakes- peare. The particulaJrs of plot and setting are not to be made public before the ''first t:tight ;\ however, it may be said that the djction and style are exquisitely Elizabethan, sufficient to withstand the criticism of a Neilson or a Thorndike, and at the same t1n1e the elem·ent of humor is s11fficiently de- veloped to split the sides of the ground- lings. In a word, the play wi U not be caviare to the general, and yet it is set down with as much modesty as cunning. Several of the roles will be played by those whose histrionic ability was approved last spring in the Latin play, \Pan Soter;\ the remainder of the dramatis personal will be made up of those who know equally as well how to act \with good accent and good discretion.\ The performance will be given as near as possible to April 23, the anniver~ sary of Shakespeare's death. 'ro contrast the Elizabethan and the n1od- ern stage a dramatization of one of 0. ·Henry's stories will be given as a curtain . ta1ser. DR. RIC.HMOND'S DATES. Thursday, March 9-Dr. Richmond will address the students of the Lafayette High School a·nd Nicholls School in Buffalo. Thursday Evening------Alumni dinner at Rochester. Friday, March 10-Speaks at the Irving- School, Tarrytown-on-the-Hudson. Saturday, March 11-Address before the Westchester County Teachers' Association at Yonkers. THE RETURN. There's a hush o'er the valley behind yon hill; rrhe birds are silent, the breezes still. The sun seems sadly to shed his ray On the sorrows and sins of another day. There's a mangled corpse and the tV'.risted face l-Ias agony writ in its last grimace. 'Twas here that the foemen n1et last night Some shots, a cry and a running fight. No cities taken, no captured iort; \One private lost,\ is the terse report. * * * * * Break the silence with pick and spade, l\1ake him a bed in the silent glade Dust and ashes and humble clay Silently sleep till the Judgment Day. Spirit flown to its God away, Soul to the Soul and clay to clay. R. E. T., '16. P1rofessor-uWha t are the chief properties of heat?\ Stewed-\The chief property is that it causes bodies to expand, while cold causes them to contract.\ Professor- \Excellent. Give an ex- ample.'' Stewed-\In summer, when it is hot, the day is long; in winter when it is cold, the dav is short.\ I wa: Life Fore Endi I sav How And Or 1: I sa'\ I Stri~ I ' ~ ' ' Talk Wh( My I w:: Had :~ •,;. \' ··. The ,(·.: ~:. Imi· ' ·':~ 1~. ' ..;-; ,. ', l~. }: Imi I ··'t,- (!{' Wh I Th( Am The 1 det: .• ley am wa so thE V\iO

' i ' I I . ' ' .• ' ' THE CONCORDIENSIS .. 23 THE ANTHOLOGY of Edgar Lee Masters. I was Edgar Lee Ma~Sters. Life seemed to me a horrible monster, a man-eat- ing ogre, Forever laying snares for men and toying, cat-like, with his prey, Ending when their misery bored him. I saw how man in youth feels aspiration, How in middle age he chases succesoS or sex And in sensility repents of rejected temptation Or broods upon lost opportunity. I saw this, and wrote the Spoon River Anthology, Stripping my people of illusion and making them talk the truth- ' Talk from beyond the grave When they are far too naked too be 'shamed. My book was called one of the greateost of the century; I was a classic over night, Had more sense than John Masefield and rivalled old Walt Whitman. Then out burst a flood of imitations- Imitation anthologies that were hollow mockeries of my Spoon River appeal. Imitations from the very men Who I thought had apprec1ated me The gibbering flatness of them oSickened me t,> cast a shadow, we are fearful that the April showers would oSO dampen the inside air that weeds would spring up from the rema1n1ng panes and half the room would be cluttered up with briar brush and apple trees. Son1ething must be done before the sun stops rising in the room al- together. On murky days, now, it doeoSn't estab- lish connections until half past eleven or quarter to twelve-and then is so tired out and exhaust- ed that it seems to fall down on the window-sill to die. Physics studenttS might be interested to know that the light rays take anywhere from four tu six hours in the process of bucking through. and, as a result, the light keeps co1ning in the evening for a long time after the sun has oSet. Sometimes we are awakened at two or three o'clock in the morning by a half-a-dozen stray rays that had become tangled up somewhere on the way through and were finally com1ng merrily along like a late D. & H. train. SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. * * * * There have been some four or five city theatric- als ISO far this season in which various members of the college have taken part. And none of these parts were taken by present students who upheld leads in our own dramatics before they died. A year or two more and this last nucleus of dramatic wakefulness will be dead and gone. Will it? * * * * It has been our intention for .gome time past to And I threw the manuscripts of my second book in to the stove. put the musical clubs on our dissecting table, but we were a long time getting around to it for we stuck with them longer than usual this year. The fickleness of faculty approval, orJ we might better say, the :fiickleness of the muSiceroS' application to text books, has kept the personnelle of the clubs in a state of wild chaos throughout the season and considerably hindered their development. It i.:; obviouoSly impossible to round out a club into any_ satisfa<;tory degree of veteranness when mem- bers are dropping out and coming on and drop- ping out again as they have this year. Fresh- man rna terial has made the Glee Club superior to last year's. The seaoSon's first tenors were re- cruited largely from the ranks of '19, while others have moved in to more than fill the shoes of grad- uates in the other divisions. The music was not entirely selected with good taste. \On the Road to Mandalay,\ abandoned early in the oSeason, would have gone better than \Go 'Long, Mule\ has done; the remainrug selectio.~s were happily enough made but should have been encored with something lighter rather than repeating or singing third verses. The Mandolin Club played along They said I was a tremendous flash-in-the-pan! The novelty of smashing the footlights having departed with the capitulation of the Crane-Shir- leys, we will turn elosewhere for destructive amusement. We will smash windows. So-· we want our windows washed! In another month or so they will begin to tremble and fall out onto the ground with their own weight and, while we V\iOt11d welcome light in the room strong enough

i. I '!, 24 without much change in make-up :or change, one way or the other, in success. The addition of l'arker at cello smoothes over the inevitable roughness of the bass. In solo work rests the dub's sole right to pat themselves on the back. Moora has a better tenor than Stan Smith had bass, though tl~e freshman hasn't quite yet the developtnent that his predecessor had. Cook's work at the piano i-s better than most colleges ca.n show. Stein and Parker in du€t are better than Stein was in solo last year. The quartet was vC:ry fair in the earlier concerts and far better in the later ones. The club's itinerary was hardly up to the standard of previous years, which was probably due rather to simple hard luck than to managerial faulte. * * * * It occurs to us in the passing that n·ext year's manager might save expense for printer's ink by renaming the musical men the Concordiant Club. For they are none too harmoneyous at present. * * * * The Longacre Theatre Company recently picked up with Eva Tanguay, launched her in a man's part in \The Girl Who Smiles\ and, having her well started on her way through the provinces, came out with the surpri.ging statement, that all notices to the contrary, she is gentle and docile and perfectly easy to manage if one knows how. E-va breezed through here last week on the first leg oi her journey. Two or three days afterward she got tired of it, threw up her contract and is now I-don't-caring it in vaudeville. There waGn't any special reason for putting her in ''The Girl Who Smiles\ other than simply to exhibit her. Electnor Painter originally starred in the production, but not in the role that Eva took. * * * * \The Only Girl\ paid another vrstt last week and pained us as much as it did before. Distress- ing ind€ed it is to \See this, the best musical offer- ing of last season, mauled and flattened by the n'th rate companies. Broadway would never know it if they should see it in its provincial disguise. Also ~epeated last week \The Lilac Domino.\ _t-\.gain ·a good production pitifully played. Its forte is its music-a very clever song, \Lilac Domino.\ There was no one in the cast who cli111h- ed far enough out of the rut to be notable. * * * * When :first saw the tuxedo-ed attendant at the Hudson and then saw what what the footlights had to offer, we decided that the affair n1ust have been a dress rehearsal. The Hudson's fir.gt two or three try~ were~ hardly hette'r tha:n that. Noting our condescention to the theatt,e~s tH~W ti~rne, YOH have already guessed that the rennaisance has come. It has. La.gt week's company was on the plane of Columbia's best. We dare not predict that it will stay there. ··~•+++++++++++++++ '* Sophomores desiring to try lot cheer ·~ ~f leader to Griffith Bonner will report at + ~+ Union-Star office Satu~rday night. + ···············••+• When that cheery gentleman at the Wesleyan ge:.me llad rid himself of one of his: bubbllhgs-ovet 1 we distinctly heard a colleger mutter, 'tllopeless~ ly insane-hopelessly!\ No such thing! He is~ we understand, a great friend of Coach Dawson's, and was simply following out the ideas on cheer~ ing that our Napoleon expressed in college meet~ ing. Wesleyan was hopelessly beaten; it would have been ironical to cheer for them c1nd ungen· tlemanly- to urge Union to quintupaf the score. Still, he must yell ~Something. What more sensible and polite than to rise and u:tter the war-cry of a wholly neutral college 'way off down 1n Jersey ~otnewhere? In the college millennium we will see our cheer leader hop up whe11ever the games be- corn~ a trifle one-sided and demand a long cheer f<>r Hamilton or a siren for Leland Stanford. AH, THE~E~ GENERAL BECKETT! HOW'S TH:E COMMODORE? Our student secretary sounded as if he wert' calling names when he read, \Ptofesosor Waldron s_pe·aks abo~t the coming lecture by Dr. ~fase-· field.\ He didn't go on to say that Major Zirr1- mer talked on basketball and Senator Danner dis·· c1tssed the motion of Viscount Rosectanz and Sit' ~~oster Brown was pre.gent. NAUSEATlNG HOMO~. Th~re are tSotne depths of waggery that everl this lowly column will not stoop to and. we cite this instance as the drawing of the line. This ~:ideous wheeze was plucked frotn John Mase- field's lecture-a simple !law i-n his diction, which was, of course, so good that punning over it i~ sacrilege. Mr. Masefield was telling the story of the man fled England to escap-e the devil: \Sa he went to sea-threw up everything, his house and land and;;\ \Hi! Hi! D'you get that one ?' 1 stage-whispered Clytemnestra, haH way acros~ l1e <:hapel, NIT£. By jc Bl ''T ( . ( Phon'

I ~ .. ' ' r \I li\.NI'J 1 \0:\ --·.o· - I -- ·e- H \«'+i'i'\\# \Uifi..... ~ \fl'loiJI 6¥1 ., '\\ f 1 lh'4Sit ll~ . S';i I- r I ... tU ij' JOIN OUR CLUB AND OWN A BICYCLE on our easy payment plan, $1 do·wn and $1 a week, and take your choice of the following High Grade Wheels: New England, lver-Johnson, American, Pope Motor Bike By joining now yoa secure a discount ot 5, 7 or 10 percent. Let us give you particulars. BURKE, 230 So. Centre St, iil:o!;:I~~-Excelaior an~p~~~d;~;o:. \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 l9H E. W. MANDEVILLE. 'l 7 Colloate R.,preaentative NEAR BARNEY'S 1915 The Wallace Co . .. Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie!s insure our patrons the broa9est, n1ost ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc$ Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street ''Look for the Cow• s Head,' Shows over the coat in back; low shnl'·p .. smart curveaway front; g·ood knotandslidespace lJfor 25c CLUETT. PEABODY ..t CO.,Inc., Muliers. TROY, N. Y CLEA~lLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. VIe clean everything that needs clean ... ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909-J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

Spring Spring Hats Shirts Spring Clothes This way, please, if you desire the Newest and Best in Spring Outfitting! At this Good Clothes Store you get all the style, the Finest Tailoring and the Choicest Fabrics··· The Distinctive Models that are Shown in this Store Exclusively. Spring Suits Spring Coats Come In, Look Them Over HTD 455 STATE STREET The Store That Creates---But Never Imitates

,., ' :i J',; ' 'i i .->1 \ _,: ~ -.t>;:' ?.11 '' ~: : '~:.~~ Pl ist . tn dil IJ) wl Wl ha irr l1.E as th le hl cc ;n CE it rc 1.( cl 0 (:'~ ') ~ . } ' ft

- '\\\\ ' - ' - :-:r; :::c . i - ., =1 - ~ .... J ' 1 - .._, :,...>' - - ' .... , ?\ - ..-.. '-' :::c ~ II_ . r::' ~ ~-· -- l· :1~.·~.:!:.'\\\\'.· -~~ . . I.., p if eli 1 '' ~ ' \\ h t : i 1 \1 1 I ' 1 It r \ \

CJtfe ·e CONCORDIENSIS. : :: : . . :: ::: UNION COliEGE liBRARY. VOLUME 39 MARCH x6, 1916 NO 18 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY il

I, \: I I i ' ,:! I' ,I 11 ji '! I ,f 'I ,I I i li : ii ,. 'I I 'I I I l ,, l· I .I I I UNION UNIVERSI CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chaneellor UNION COLLEGE fte college offers the following undergraduate aad graduate courses: 1. V•nr•e• leading to the degr.ee of A.. B. Ct.ASSICA~ CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAl, COURSE B -This course may be pur· sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. S. <Jour•e leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers t~tin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern langua_ges and science. 3. Oour•e leading to the degree of B. S, SciENTIFic CouRsE- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Oourse leading to the degree of B. B. GuNJtRAI, ENGINEERING CouRs:£-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and m-edern languages. SANITARY ENGINEUING CouRsJt- 'This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. Et!C'niCAt, ENGINEERING CouRS£- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. &. Cour•e• lea•tng to graduate clegree•. CoURSE LEADING TO DEGREit or ~f. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists. <>f lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRsE LEADING To DEGR~lt or M. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. COURSR LEADING TO DF:Glllt! OJt PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNJ!S, Secretary, Schenectady. N. 'Y. L. V. Herrington Groceries, \f obacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W -· .. -~----. . . ----.. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE , AL:BANY MEDICAL . C<;lLLEGE. Founded · 183~A complete reorgantzatlon has been effected . du~i1_1~ the past year. Largelr increas~d Hospital · · fac1htles have been assured wtth teachtng services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im . mediate respon6ibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved methods With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern tnedical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- tnission must pre·sent his Medical Student's Certi· ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of l one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- i tific schQol, of physic·s, chemistry, biology and 1 French or German. Union College, Schenectady, l N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year 1 and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra i fees except for rental of 1nicroscopes and lahor- atorv breakage. •1.'he academic year beg·ins Sept. 27, 1915. All in· quiries and other comtnunications should be ad· dressed to l THOMAS ORDWAY. M. D., Deanf Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALEANY LAW SCHOOL--'I'his department of the university is located at Albany, near the st~te capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to t!l use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. tl three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $to: tuition fee, $Ito. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Secretary, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms oi seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: At.FKltD B. HuESTED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. --------------------~ SUITS PRESSED 25o. DRY CLEANING AN.D PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Acrosa from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate vo; = PB Fas1 p ley 1n a we . pou vver thei a \' \Ve not she 1 er: 011( thE he we 'Nb pte (lie tat an of th

lf .·a r- n· d• I of lte its !fS. ' ee, · II: ded ven {. The Concordiensis VOL. 39 MARCH 16, 1916 NO. 18 PRINCETON WINS IN LAST HALF. Fastest Game of Year Ends with Score of 30 to 18-M udge Guarded Too Closely by Tigers. Princeton ~arne down the Mohawk Val- ley from Syracuse, Saturday, and succeeded in avenging themselves for the defeat which we gave them last year. It was the last g-ame of our schedule and a hard one to lose for at the half time the Garnet held a four point lead and until the last ten minutes we vvere the aggressors and had the Tigers on thei1r guard every minute. The varsity after a week's rest from their easy game with \Vesleyan were in tip-top shape and it was not until Princeton put in her best team that she was able to score with consistency. The game was the best of the season to watch and both teams played hard and nev- er slowed up for a minute until the last sec- ond was over and Zip lead his tean1 off the floor. He had done his best to win and he had nothing to be ashamed of for we were beaten by a better team and the one which will probably go down as the chan1- pions of 1916. Jimmie Mudge and Yovits did the best work for Union but the repu- tation of the fast forward had preceded hin1 and he was closely watched every minute of the game. Ferree, who went in late in the game; vvas the biggest individual point ~:·etter for the Tigers. 'fhe passing of both tean1s ~ras a little off color but this was accounted for by the fact that the Princeton men were all tall and it was necessary for the Union passes to be made high and long. The referee's whistle was continually blowing during the game as there was a large number of both per- sonal and technical fouls. The Game in Detail. Yovits made the first score o£ the game when he caged the ball on a free chance after a technical foul on Foster. He followed this at once with a field basket and pushed Union's total up to three. Then a dot.tble foul was called on the two centers and Haas registered for Princeton while Yo vi ts missed his try. Haas received a pretty pass f~rom Butterworth and made an easy goal fron1 under the basket. This evened the score at three each and it remained a tie while Haas made two tries from the foul line and Y ovits missed one from the same place. A technical foul was called on Glick for run- ning with the ball and Yovits n1ade it good with the result that Union once more took the lead. Hal Scoby decided to take a hand in the festivities and dropped one in tro111 the extreme corner a la Teedie \\'.T oods. At thi~ point the Princeton coach becatne worried and took out Rahill, putting in Paulson at forward and sending Foster to g-uard. Y ovits missed a chance for a foul point and Paulson oid the san1e. Then Paulson found his eve and made good a free try on a per- sonal foul on Scoby. Shortly after this Rut-

I J iii !I ~ ! q ,l :I . I ·i ,I •I ;I q ,, \ ,, I' I ;j '\ ! I I I I I '' ' l ' ' t: I I ' I I ·f! ' ! I! 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS . terwotrth made a goal but Jimmie 1\1udge followed it up with a long shot from the middle of the court and maintained equili- bri urn. Y ovi ts missed a free sh.ot after a foul had been called on Glick but redeemed hitn- self a minute later by chasing Haas the length of the court and blocking his try for the basket. Mudge made another basket, Paulson made a foui point and the half closed with Union leading by a score of 11 to 7. Second Half. Captain Mc'rigue replaced Butterworth at center and Fer>ree went in for Paulson at rio-ht forward. Yovits opened the scoring b again in this half by tnaking a point after a foul by Foster. 'rhen McTigue missed an easy chance for a goal and Izzie dropped in two tnore from the foul line. Score 14 to 7. Union's hopes were sky-high at this titne and it looked as if we would repeat our feat of last yea~, but the 'figers sent in the last tnan of the~r first tean1 and began to creep up. Ferree made a field goal and Haas made three fouls count. Then Witbeck n1ade a field basket but I-Iaas, McT'igue and Ferree dropped in three in such rapid succession that the Garnet was taken by surprise and gave way to stage friKht. After Yovits had tnade at1other single counter, Ferree tnade a long basket and the Tigers took the lead for the first titne. On a technical foul on Yovits, Haas made a point and when Zip told the referee that he needed a n1icroscope Deering gave. Haas another chance which he made good. Ferree and JVlcTigue again began to vvork together and each quickly n1ade a basket. Then Haubner vvent in for Scoby and Franck took Witbeck's place at center. As a closing feat Davies broke loose from his tnan and stored two goals in quick order. 1'his brought the total of the Princeton score up to 30 while Union finished \:vith 1 R. 1'he score: UNION. F.B.. F.P. '\f.P Scoby, rf. ---------- 1 0 2 Mudge, lf. --------- 2 0 4 Witbeck, c. -------- 1 0 2 Zimmer, rg. -------- 0 0 0 Y ovits, lg. ---------- 1 8 10 Haubner, rf. ------ 0 0 0 Franck, c.---------- 0 0 0 5 8 18 PRINCETON. F.B. F.P. T.P. Foster, rf. -------·-- 0 Paulson, rf. -------- 0 Ferree, rf. ---·------ 5 Haas, 1£. ----------- 2 Butterworth, c. ____ 1 McTigue (Capt.) c._ 1 Davies, lg. --------- 2 H.ahill, lg. -----·---- 0 G.Jick, rg. ---------- 0 11 0 1 0 '{ 0 0 0 0 0 8 0 1 10 11 2 2 4 0 0 Referee-Deering, :11anhattan. 'fin1e~ keeper, Girling. Umpire, Louden, Dart- mouth. Score at half-Union, 11; PrincE-- ton. 7. SENIORS LEAD IN INDOOR TRACK MEET. '\rhe second indoor inter-class meet held at the gymnasium last Friday was won by the seniors. Beckett '18 tied Mallen '16 i11 the high jump, topping the bar at 5 feet. 4 1-2 inches. The results of the 111eet are as follows: 12-pound shot put-Stoller '16, first; Bov~~­ man '19, second; Mallen '16, third; Cunning- ham '19, fourth. Distance, 42 feet, 9 1-2 inches. 40 yard lovv hurdles-Mallen '16, first: 1\f orison, '1. 7, second ; Jamieson, '1 7, third: 'raylor '18, fourth. Time, 5 2-5 seconds. 40 yard dash-Morison '17, and l\1a11en '16, tie for first; Do,vns '17, third ; Taylor '18, four· . Runnt ·Beckett • Mosher J1eight, Half : I\1onday entered. It is in each hurdles, •. · I\iarch 1:' · the satr Total 1918, 6 IN TEE The won fr noon b tainin§ having ship f, the t starre< The 191~ Jenkir Frida' Walla Good1 Rose< w( son t right stu dE the i class Tt lows

THE CONCORDIENSTS. 11 Won Lost , 18 , fourth. 'Time, 5 3 -4 seconds. Running high jump-Mallen '16 and ·. Beckett '18, tie for first; Jamieson '1 'I, third ; 191~ -------·-=----- 5 2 P.C. .714 .571 .400 .200 • Mosher '18, and Stephens '1 '1, tie for fourth. H.eight, 5 feet, 4 1-2 inches. . Half mile run-Finals to be run off on ~1onday (four freshn1.en and two juniors entered.) 1 t is interesting to note that the results in each o£ these events, except the low hurdles, are better than those of the meet of •· · I\iarch Srd. The results for the hurdles is · the sa1ne. Totals (thus far), 1916, 20; 1917', 131-2; 1918, 6 1-2; 1919, 4. INTER-CLASS BASKETBALL CON- TEST CLOSES. Juniors Win Cup. The excitement is all over. The juniors won from the sophomores Monday after- noon by a score of 17 to 11, incidentally ob- taining the silver cup awarded to the class having the inter-class basketball champion- ship fqr three years. Rosecrans made the 1nost points for 1917' and Hay starred for 1918. The line-up of the teams was : 1917 1918 Jenkins ------------------------- Peaslee center. Friday ----------------------------- liay Wallace ---------------------- Lefkowitz forwards. 1918 ------------ 4 3 1919 ------------ 2 3 1916 ------------ 1 4 \U\ AND \aU a\ AWARDS. Tuesday afternoon, March 14, the awards co-mn1ittee of the athletic board met and awarded \U's\ for basketball to Zim- mer, Scoby, Mudge, Witbeck, Yovits, Hum~ mer, Haubner, and F~ranck. Four men were awarded their \aU a\. These were Roo1, Kirkup, Moynihan and Reed. The '•U'' and \aUa\ men have a vote in the election for captain, which will be held within a few days. The eligible candidates are Haubnert Scoby, Roof and Kirkup. REVIVAL OF DRAMATICS. Tuesday evening, March 14, a large num- uf students met in Washburn Hall to form a Dramatic Society in the hope of re- establishing ~ramatics at Union. The fol lowing officers were chosen: President, Meade Brunet '16 ; vice-president, Philip Downs, '17; secretary-treasurer, Kenneth Creble '16 ; manager, Fawcett Porter, '17; assistant n1anager, John Jackson, '17. DEATH OF BUENO, EX .. -15. Goodn1an ---------------------- Fancher On March 12th the announcement of the death of Urbano da Moraes Bueno Filho, ex.-'15, one month previously in San Paolo, Brazil, reached the college, which he was forced to leave in his junior year, on account of the illness which caused his death. He was a member of the Cosmopolitan Club and a pron1inent figure an1ong the Brazilian stud- ents in America and the athletic circles of his own country. His death was not entirely unexpected, though until cr.-ecently it was hoped that he might recover. Rosecrans ___ ...................... --------..,.----- Calkins guards. We have had an unusually successful sea- son this year and interest has been kept up right to the end. Next year we hope that more students will think it worth while to attend the inter-class gan1es and support their class-mates. The standings for the season are as fol- lows:

'!I ' ,. I' I ' 12 THE co·NCORDIENSIS. ATTENTION! The Plattsburger's Column. An attempt to recruit men for the Train- ing ·Camps at Plattsburg this summer is to be made in Union College. The purpose of this column is to stimulate interest in the n1ovement through sidelights, incidents, ex- periences, and inforn1ation regarding the Plattsburg movement, rather than through an ap.peal to patriotism. It will be assu1ned that patriotism is the motive that moves a n1an to contemplation of attending one of these camps, but we hope to get some action ·in the matter of enrolling by spreading in- formation as to what the life up there is really like-what one has to do, and after the day~s work is done what pleasure there is to be had and ho\v n1uch tin1e one gets to himself. Everyone in college has received a bulle- tin and enrollment blank and knows the ~re­ quirelnents. Those who are slightly inter- ested n1ay have balked at the expense. For those attending the Junior Division the $22.50 not only covers the living expenses for the five weeks but also includes the $5~00 deposit which is returned at the end of the camp if nothing is lost or dan1.aged. This n1akes the mess and camp expenses cost but $17.50. _The entire uniform should not con1.e to n1ore than $12.00 which makes the total expense $29.50 exclusive of railroad fare and personal expenditures. Tactical walks are being conducted fron1 tin1e to ti1ne in this vicinity for the benefit of n1en \iVho attended the can1p~ last year. They are in charge of Major 1\d:cDonough, lJn~ted States Army Engineers, who is located in Albany in charge of the barg-e canal work. Anyone who is interested. in going on these vvalks is cordially invited and any students desiring to see a problen1 in n1inor tactics worked out on the ground would do well to go. The next one is to be Sunday, J\iarch 19th; details regarding the place and tin1e of 1neeting will be posted on the bulletin board of the college office. Recruiting in the college is to be in charge of Ned Moore, Psi U House. Anycne de. siring any information about enrolling, the nature of the work in the camps, or a per- sonal viewpoint of the life in camp may get it from hin1. He is also provided with enroll- ment blanks and bulletins for those who have lost theirs. ONLY. Only a spar, rising·, falling; But it tells of a ship gone down,- Tells of the souls that perished In the merciless waves that drown. Only the gulls that are starving,- Their hunger heard in their cry,- They tell of ceaseless endeavor; And the end thereof is to die. trhe shores that rise in the distance, trhe spar in the trough of the sea,- They tell of hopes that have failed n1en And the harbor of Ne'er-to-be. -\Headfort.\ MEN OF '10 DINE. Regt days a1 days a· the fin n1eetin terestiJ Salv . , gather . ~ ~' { 1 tneetir ,,1, the Ci subjec ' '' '!,f~ ~;; There ·,') ' ; ~ {j Th( ·. 'l will g <, Min1t As so< 18, in are n ed ar Last Saturday the class of 1910 held a · · ;; dinner at Glenn's at which the following n1embers were present: A. E. Car1nichael, Th Clas~ Min11 presE was from Mim . J- G. Charest, I-I. G. Coplon, E. B. Irish, A. E. Kriegsman, A. H. Sherman, R. 13. Shep· ard, P. J. v\Thitmore. After the dinner they attended the Princeton gatne. THE RADIO CLUB. Dr. Be•rg is giving a series of lectures on vVireless Telegraphy and Electricity to the Radio Club and any others who are inter- ested. These lectures are being held every vV ednesday afternoon · fron1 4 :45 to 6 :00. The course began with the rudiments and the more involved details will be taken up later. 1'he second of these lectures was held yes~ terday aftetrnoon. Several Troy amateurs have been attending these lectures. ancH setti: and and esty tion: case tion Sati con1 the hap A de '\'l\'f\ ;' :) 0 1 of a

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 Regular code practice is being held Tues- days at 1 :&0, Wednesdays at 9:00, and Fd- days at 1:30. The meetings are being held the first Friday in each month. At the last 111 eeting W. R. G. Baker '16 gave a very in- teresting lecture on the \Audion.\ HEARD IN PASSING. Salvation Army captain, addressing street gathering: \Imrnediately following this tneeting we will hold a preaching service in the Citadel. Adjutant Mott will speak, his ,,, subject being, 'Hell, and Who are Going ~; There.' We hope you will all come.\ ·,') ' ; ~ ; ,-f '. .~~ ·' IVPPITER MIMVS. The Latin players of the Classical Club will give their first performance of J up pi ter Min1us before the Upper Hudson Classical Association at 4 o'clock, Saturday, March 18, in the High School Auditori utn. There are no tickets of admission and all interest- ed are cordially invited. The first Latin play attempted by the is an altar of Juppiter stone cold from long neglect. Juppiter is represented as coming t~ earth to mingle among men in disguise, in the hope of discovering the cause of their defection. He finds 1nen selfish and discon- tented with their lots in life, but unwilling to exchange the evils which they know for those they \wot not of.\ The expedient of using a modern situation for a Latin play has so many practical ad- vantages besides the sanction of a long European tradition, that it is interesting to see lJ nion College taking the lead in reviv- ing this time-honored mode of combining in- struction and ente['tainment, even if it be on a very modest scale. The Grex of Latin Players consists of~ Prologus, Jacobs; Juppiter, Stein; Geta, K.ennedy; Davus, Smith; Rusticus~ King; J urisconsultus, Y ounie; Miles, Heatley; N aufragus, Poersch; Caupo, Ketchum. AN ATTACHMENT. Agent (entering office )-\I've an attach- ment for your typewriter, sir, which J...,....,-\ Busy Man-\W ell settle it with herr Your love affairs are no concern of mine.\-. Boston Transcript. a , , ~~ Classical Club was also of the order of a Min1e, being the Suffragatrix Militans, presented in 1913. Pan Soter given in 1914 was a comedy founded on incidents taken from life in Union College. In Juppiter Mimus an experiment is made in fitting an ancient situation to a thoroughly modern setting. Such a con1.bination of the ancient and tnodern was relished by the Romans, and well suited to the Mime, where trav- esty and burlesque formed part of the tradi- tional machinery of the play vvright. In the case of Juppiter Min1us both the sugges·- tion and the moral are taken £:rom the first Satire of Horace. The subject-man's dis- content with his lot in life_,_was familiar in the ancient '~popular\ philosophy, and is per- haps best known to us moderns through Addison's drean1 recounted in Nos. 558 and ;'09 of the Spectator. he he er. The scene is laid in an open space in front of a cafe and a lawyer's cha-mbers. At the left WILLIAMS DROPS CANE RUSH. A practically unanimous sentiment in favor of the installation of a new under- class contest to replace the old Cane Rush vYas expressed at a college meeting at Wil- liam~ last week. A ballot on the question' whether such a contest was desired result:.. ed in an affirmative vote by an overwhelming majority. \What did you say your age was?\ he re- tnarked between dances. \Well I didn't say,\ smartly returned the girl, \but I've just reached twenty-one.\ \Is that so?\ he ~returned consolingly. \What detained you ?\-Punch Bowl'.

I ; '' ' i i : I l ! .. 1 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News W,eekly Pttbtitshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., aoS Second Class ]\fatter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. 'Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. W. Schwartz, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 f .. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. VALEDICTORY. With this number the old Concordiensis bo&d ceases its activity as such and en- trusts the paper to the hands of its succes- sors. Whatever commendation or praise we may have received, we are not so self-satis- fied as· to think that in our hands the Con- cordiensis has reached its acme of develop- ment. r;nent. it will There is roqm for great improve- When the ·day arrives-and we hope not be long defocred-the Concor- diensis must take its stand on equal ground -with other college publications. Hoping that an honest admission of our shortcom- ings may be the best basis for future im- provement, we freely admit that we are not up to the average of the publications of our contemporary colleges. But before much more impr<>v.ement can take place, there must be a change in form. The magazine form may do very well £or small high S·chools , but it distinctly is NOT the thing for the publication o£ an otherwise wide-awake col- lege. When this change is made, we be- lieve that an interest in journalism will be stimulated which will place the Concor- diensis on a level with the other college activities and will furnish an incentive tc better work and keener competition. With it must and will come an improvement in journalistic and editorial style which will make the paper that we all desia:-e to see. We also believe that with proper interest and careful direction a paper could be print .. ed here twice a week. This would neces .. sitate a closer and more accurate handling of news items and would probably ultimately result in forcing into being a purely literary magazine, which would also redound more to Union's credit than the present half-- hearted way of dealing with our native litera\ ture. These are a few suggestions and prop\ hecies. We hope that the new board will not take the attitude that such improve- ments co1ne slowly for if they do, they will not come at all. The time £or change is ripe and there is sufficient ability and material to warrant it. All that is lacking is a mov .. ing spirit to set the hall rolling. Who shall it be? THE BASKETBALL SEASON. Saturday night our defeat at the hands of Princeton marked the close of what we choose to call a successful season. With the loss of practically the whole tea1n by grad~ uation last year, we could scarcely hope for the victories this year's team has won. lJnder the skillful direction of our coach, a tearn 1 year a \ ·< tri ' ' ~·:-~1 the .. ··~ .~ ~'; Wit ·~,' ~~i :~ some ~ PrincE :·.-, '. ' ... ,~ game, ) realiz( ; .·.'i ti< ., the '} ful th~ ~ '· t here 1 ,,. . ~· . ' itself . and tl ' ished spirit and i1 say tl ~rh now ter's a·way \ d tim l but t . ~ ~ ·' ~om~ ' l J the 1 <: I ... : i ::~ won .~ l they ,. ' .• ~ \· ;! ~·,:~ alan: \~ flag~ ~.~ ' _f}J '!,·~ \:~ iwo :·\. • .\f ·.·a effo1 .. ~:~ 'i _., ~~ : ~: exan ., Jun( and ever ROll~ duti as t tent'

'I e e e a ~HE CONCORDIENSlS. 15 tearn has been welded together which next year and the year after will perhaps repeat ;j the triumphs of 1915's Big Four. . ~{; With the sensational defeat o£ Wesleyan, some of us dared to hope £or a victory over Princeton and for more than half o£ the ... game, it seemed that our hopes would be ·.· J realized. Then came the sudden turn of '. ' ... ,~ ; .; the tide, first rendering the outcome doubt-. ., ful then sweeping all hope away. But it was · ·.; here that Union spirit could and did show · · itself. The student body was with the team , and that team though tired and beaten fin- ished stong and fighting. It is this very spirit which will win future victories for us and it is in recognition of this spirit that we say to this year's team, \Well done.n \ . l THE CRITICAL MOMENT. ~rhe examinations ot the first semester now lie well behind us, while this semes~ ter's examinations are two and a hal£ months a·way. Apparently the present tin1.e is not (1. time for worry about such re1note matters, but this is just where we. make our tnistake. Some people will say that races are won at the st(ljrt, many more will say that they are won at the finish, but it is our belie£ that they are won little by 1i ttle at every point along the way. It is the consistent and un- flagging application to our work for the next iwo and a half months, not the spasmodic effort produced by the £right of the last examinations or the few days cramming next June which will determine who is passed and who not. But more than this and of even greater value than the in1.mediate les- .- Rons is the habit of coping with eaGh day's duties and difficulties in a man-sized way as they con1e along- and not shirking ni11e- tenths of thent with the fond hope that the providence which takes C<lire of fools, idiots and drunken men will take care of us too. MUSICAL CLUBS TO t1NlTE WITH AMHERST HERE MARCH 29. The Union College Musical Clubs will end a most successful season on March 29th, when they will appear in joint concert with the Amherst Clubs in the Alumni Gymna- sium. Only one other concert will take place·, this being at Gloversville on the even- inb of the 21st. Arrangements for the Am ... herst-Union concert are being rapidly rounded into shape. The Amherst clubs have about £orty talented artists, who are maintaining the usual Amherst quality in musical circles. The Union Clubs are too well known to require comment, and the af- fair promises to be a most successful one. The clubs will alternate on the program, fol-- lowed by one number in which both will join. The concert is not intended to· be a contest, or to show rivalry in any way. The Amherst Clubs have been planning to ap- pear in Schenectady £or some time, and as this oppoTtuni ty was open to them to ap.-... pear in concert with the Union Clubs, this plan was adapted to the benefit o£ both. The project is being backed by the Am- herst Alumni in this section, and a large at-· tendartce is promised. The affair will com- mence at 8 :15. Reserved seat tickets will be placed on sale about M·arch 20th, prices. being twenty-five and fifty cents. Following the concert, Pantin's six piece orchestra will play for dancing, whi-ch will continue until one o'clock. Pantin's or- chestra proved its quality and popularity at the dance following the Junior Week con-- cert at the Edison Club. Dancing tickets. will be priced at fifty cents per gentle1nan. This concert will undoubtedly fill in a large measure, the vacancy caused by the postponement ot the 'Ben Franklin course which was scheduled to take 'place cluring this season.

16 THE CONCORDIENSlS. NA'\.rURAL IMPULSE OF IMITATION IS ESSENTIAL TO ART Kenyon Cox Traces History of Painting in Interesting Manner Monday Night. Kenyon Cox, the famous painter, presi- dent of the Mural Painters' Society, a mem- ber of the National Academy and, as Presi- dent Richmond said Monday night in in- troducing him, of every other society of artists that was worth belonging to, spoke before a large audienc~ in the Union Col- lege chapel Monday night on \Painting as an Art of Imitation.\ He appeared as the fourth and last speaker in this year's leba- bod Spencer lecture course series. Mr. Cox said he did not wish to give a definition of the wrt of painting,_ but would make an exhibition of what the art of paint- ing essentially was, in what desires it ori- ginated aiJ.d to what faculties of the human mind it appealed. He said there had been too much theorizing about art without recognition of its history. He instanced Tol- stoi's essay on art. He said Tolstoi started with a plausible definition of art, which, ho¥Jever, was not sound and demonstrated from this definition that many of the heroes of the art world were not artists at all or were bad' artists, while some maker of children's dolls was the real artist. The speaker said the most pertnanent characteristics of art in all ages were sought in a brief historicaltreview. The his.., tory of painting and sculpture is as old as or older than the history of mankind, Mr. Cox said. At some time, about 10,000 years ago, men living· in western .. Europe made repre- sentations of the animals which they hunt- ed, carving and painting them. The bronze age left no traces of aJrt except decorative lines and the trudest kind of sculpture. Painting emerges again, said Mr. Cox, about 4,000 B. C. in Egypt, but was in- ferior to the cave men's work in sotne points. The function of the artist is to give the power of vision, putting his training and knowledge and his understanding of the meaning of things in his work so that the observer of his art 1nay have the experience of the more intense living that it stimulates. As to story telling he argued that it was a necessity in painting, even still life having a possible suggestion of story. Mr. Cox expressed the opinion that an art which has been imitative for at least 14,· 000 years would be unlikely to change its course within a few years and flow in an op~ posi te ditrection as son1e of the n1odern point~ ers were predicting. PAINTING LESS APPEALING THAN MUSIC SAYS COX. At the end of his examination of the his- tory and characteristics of the art of paint- ing Kenyon Cox gave his audience at the chapel Tuesday night the follovving defini- tion : \Painting is the selective representa- tion on a plain surface of objects or act- ions, real or imagined, by means of spaces, lines, colors and varieties of light and darkness, all of \vhich . elem~nts as well a~ the materials employed have been subjected to some principle of order for the attaintnent of unity.\ His discussion Tuesday night was of re- lation in painting, following up the theories of representation which he had given the night before and he spoke of the modern tendency of reaction from the extreme rep- resentation of the past century, which was in danger of denyi~g the very substance of the art. All arts of both time and space are arts of relation he said. The idea of an art in which painting should be made to produce something analogous to absolute music was discussed. His conclusion was that painting as an absolute wrt would be in- ferior to music and also to architecture. Relational art was spoken of as the tool of imitation. The ain1 of painting being but rarely imitation, merely the elements of ,, ' ., -·~ ch< n1t tio lat J. Icr de1 ha< ha< a I \\' cc me Scl Pa Av Ril Stc Gr; Gr1 All Of hie tng cla ele1 n1e pu1 sta 1\IIJ j Sec anc Yo evE \T: the bat tha the tGtl

,, ' ., -·~ THE CONCORDIENSIS. 17 choice, selection, suppression, exaggeration 111 ust enter in. All higher effects of imita- tion are greatly enhanced by the a:rts of re- lation, he said. As this was the closing lecture in the Ichabod Spencer course for this year Presi- dent Richmond spoke of the pleasure that had been given by the eminent speakers who had appeared in the course and closed with a poetu of the last speaker. l(enyon Cox, \\Vork Then for Pleasure.\· COMMENCEMENT APPOINTME:t~TS. The ten honor men chosen for the cotn- mencement stage are as follows : John Flam, Schenectady; Lee Chase Fletcher, Gillett, Pa.; William Carroll Gunning, Freeport; Avrom 1\riyer Jacobs, Albany; Jose da Assis Ribiero, Sao Paulo, Brazil; Milton Hymes Sternfeld, Albany; James Barker Taylor, Greenville; Richard Erastus Taylor, Greenville; Charles Van Orden Terwilliger, Albany; Walter Elsworth \Vynne, Albany. Of this list four, Wynne, Terwilliger, Ri- biero and Flan1, are students in the engineer- ing departments, while the remainder are classical students and the ones recently elected to Phi Beta !Zappa. The anuounce- n1ent of the valedictory will not be n1ade public until later, but will be the one who stands highest in the above list. l'~ARCH MEETING OF LOCAL SEC- TION AMERICAN CHE:rdiCAL SOCIETY. A joint n1eeting of the Eastern N e~ York Section of the American Chemical Society and the Society of Engineers of Eastern New York Vvas held in the chapel, Thursday evening, March 9th. The subject was \The Elect~rolytic Refining of Copper,\ and the speaker Mr. 0. D. Easterbrooks of Al- bany. Numerous slides illustrated the fact that copper is treated on the Atlantic coast though tnined in the west. Five hundred tens per day with one ton silver by-product is not unusual for one plant to turn out. Gold, pla tinun1, palladi urn, seleniun1, arsenic, telluriun1 lead, cadmium, zinc are a~mong the by-products. Mr. Easter brooks left his slides with the Department of Chemistry to be used in the class room. The department is also holding over the by-products exhibit in the hope that the U. S. Metals Products Co. will let us keep it for our museum. ADDITIONS TO CHEMICAL MUSEUI\'1 ;rhe Department of Chetnistry is in re- ceipt of the following exhibits for the Chem- ical Museum: l\1antles, burners and chem- icals from the W elsbach Company; asphalt and asbestos roofing 1naterials fron1 the Carey Company ; silver and lead ores fron1 Idaho, frorn Anderson, 1917. The museun1 novv contains materials representative of all the larger industries. Son1e little time ago a large piece of shrapnel was received fron1 the American Locomotive Company. PRESS CLUBBERS TO HOLD BANQUET. ;-I'he third annual \get together\ athletic dinner, given under the auspices of the Press Club, will take place in the Colleg-e gyn1nasium, April 4, at seven o'clock. \Chuck\ \iV aldron will preside and among the prominent speakers will be Dr. Rich- lnond, F~red Dawson and Dr. McComber. 'The co1nn1ittee in charge, of which D. F. Chapman is chairn1an, is hoping that the hun1orous sketch which is to be presented will have the effect of starting a revival of dran1atics at Union College. The fraternities are planning not to have dinner at the houses on the evening of April 4, in order that an hour later full justice n1ay be accorded the Press Club dinne~r by alL The dinner is intended to comtne1norate the successful basketball season of 1916 and to usher in the baseball season.

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS. AN,NUAL ALLISON-FOOTE DEBATE Third Speaker-All n~odifications of the GOES TO PHILOMATHEANS. doctrine should be abandoned. · Heatly Captures Individual Prize. The Philomathean Debating Society won the -annual Allison-Foote debate held in the chapel on Wednesday, March 8, and Clyde A. Heatly, 'l8, of the Adelphic Society was awarded the individual prize. The subject under discussion was: \Resolved That in view of present world conditions, the Mon- roe Doct~rine, or any modification thereof, be abandoned.\ According to the rules of this annual debate the society represented by the winning team wins fifty dollars and the best individual debater, regardless of his society relations, wins another prize of fifty dollars. · As a whole the debate was unusually suc- cessful. . Although the weather was ex- tre.tnely . bad and the audience therefore rather small, those people who were there were interested. The debate was on a live and vital subject and was developed by both sides so· completely and logically that the decision· given by. Mr. H. F. T. Erben was rendered only after a long discussion. The other judges were Judge E. D. Cutler, and Mr. H. G: Reist. The teatns representing the two societies vvere: Adelphic-Affirmative-Spencer B. Eddy '18, Richard E. Taylor '16, Clyde A. Heatly '1 8; Arthur D. Greene '19 (alternate). .Philo\mathean - Negative - Eugene J. I-I cymmer '16, Jacob M. Frankel '17, Charles F. Brown '16; Leslie S. Uphoff '18 (alter- nate). The arguments of the two teams were based on the following topics : Affirn1a ti ve. Fi~rst Speaker-The Monroe Doctrine is incons·istent with the humanitarian prin- ci pies of our govenunertt. Second Speaker-!: The Monroe Doctrine is unjust to the world and to the people of th~ lrnited States. II. It is inexpedient. Negative. First Speaker- The abolition of the Mon~ roe Doctrine would be contrary to the poli~ des of the administration. Second Speaker--The Monroe Doctrine is desired both in the United States and in South America. Third Speaker-!. It finds its prototype in Europe. II. It is necessary for the safetv of the United States. ~ ENGLISH CLUB. Last Friday evening, March 10, the Eng~ lish Club enjoyed a paper by Jacobs '16 on James Whitcomb Riley. At the next meeting, eight juniors will be elected to membership in the club and their initiation will occur at the next meeting thereafter. CHEMICAL SOCIETY. At a meeting of the Union College Chen1~ iral Society held Monday, March 6, at 4 ::HJ P. M., J\1r. Salathe spoke about \Some Fund- amen tal Laws and Theories of St>ructural Chemistry.\ 1\tlr. Salathe also presented us with a copy of the \Eastern New York Chemist,\ the n1onthly publication of the American Chetn- ical Society, Section of Eastern New York. vV e note therein an~ong the interesting local news items that the G. E. Company is rn anufacturing n1agnesium at the Schenec~ tady works; that Ballston Spa is to have a glycerine plant, and that the Ballston Fibre Products Company, newly inco1rporated, is experimenting in the manufacture of card- board with the idea of producing a thicker board with less handling and operative cost. AN ETYMOLOGICAL GIVE-AWAY. If \abduction\ means a \leading away,\ is abdon1en a \giving away\? I hope the squirrels get that guy. TF. Man's Whicl Sallyil To st: And, 1 Until And d I was And n A mer Expos Innocc Thoug When Thoug About That c And H Until Whetb Much Wheth Or sol The di And b: l Broke That 1 Lest n 1 An old I leapt: And w ''C one(

'l'HE CONCORDIENSIS. 19 THE UNION COLLEGE ANTHOLOGY IV. Taylor, The Editor. Man's body is prey to diseases . Which seem to pry into the soul and there htde, Sallying forth from their lair like some powerful beast To strike and slink back again And, biding their time, to leap out and strike and oStrike again, Until the body is eaten away, cell by cell, And dies. I was editor of my college paper And my editorship was a disease- A mental disease which I, like other college fools, Exposed myself to in senior year. Innocently, I thought I could cure it at first- Thought I could flush it .fron1 tny system When I passed over the reins to the next poor wretch. Thought that then my poor brain would cease to coil About each little chip and scrap of news That caught tny ear, And then on Mondays ache and grun1ble Until I had en1ptied every jot and tittle out upon assignment slips Whether I wanted it or not. Much difference I found it made Whether I still edited that damnable paper Or sold petticoats to the heathen Chi nee! The dioSease had found a fertile breeding-place And broke forth oftener and oftener as the years passed- Broke forth in a flow of motley news-gibberings That I must needs scribble out on paper, Lest my brain cran1 in one too many and burst like a soap-bubble. An old white-haired dotard at thirty-five, I leaped upon the base-board of my death bed, ~nd waved my arms and bellowed, Concordy n1eetos at 8:15 tonight! ALL out, please!\ We have with us tonight pos-i-tively the final:, five-star edition of the Taylor regime. Well, it wasn't so bad a little regime a·s it might have been One thing, it was always n1ore than willing to take pointers from outsiders-8-pointers. IT SIMPLY MEANS, WE ARE CHAMPIONS. Goodness me! We seem to hold - . The championship of all the world In spite of our frustration in That sorry game with ole Princeton. Our annual game, you know, we won From those West Point militiamen, Who, by dint of brawn or ruse, Had previously walloped Syracuse, Who took revenge for their Alma Ma- Ter out of unlucky U. of R., Who then indulged in a wild, wild spree Rai-sing the scalp of Pennsylvania. The Tigers can beat 'em, so they fancy, But they've got to show itJ ejaculateos Pennsyl FOSTERING HIS AILMENTS. Our distinguished C. Foster, on being urged in chapel meeting to speak louder, comes back with the wild-one that \he is just getting over a long case of brownchitis !'' Philburt, we are advised that the tobacco in your own-your own cigaret, which ignites like a pine torch and osprays fire-works all over your shirt front, was mellowed in a humordor. A JOKE TO BE COPIED BY JUDGE .. English Professor-\For next lesson, read 'Van- ity Fair.'\ Freshman-\Which number, sir?\ Which reminds us of another, which recently fell among thorn~ and bore no fruit. Profe,gspr Chase entered the colder-than-outdoor$ atmos- phere of chapel the other day, withdrew as far as possible into his overcoat and sat dqwn look- ing very dejected indeed. \Bleak House t\ we hurled at him, but it sailed unarrested by hi.g ears and lit among the sophomoric thorns. PLATTSBURG WAR POETRY. Well, it's hot for the soldiering life, boys, In the tang of the mountain air, Sleeping of nights in the hum of the pines by the camp-fire's fitful flare; Tasting the gay fascination, boys, Of swaggering the osoldier swag, Of stiffening up at the blaring of taps as they dip the Dear Old Flag.

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. And it's ho! for the soldiering life~ boys, . When you're plowing through the ra1n With mud-soaked feet and a grinding pack and shattered castle in Spain- When night brings an end to the marching, boys, And you're aching and quaking and drenched, And they set you to chipping up rock-s with a pick, 'till the mess-tent i-s safely trenched! The Big War, say they, has thrown out no great poetry, but the Plattsburg camps, perhaps-. We inwardly smile-- and hold our sides with laughter-a'S we see some of these innocents sign up for the summer session up at Peaceburg. Sad, indeed, will be the .first few days as they learn of' the ·gulf that separates reveille from revelry. Distance lends enchantment. A poor old man on crutches, vainly trying to keep his coat tails from blowing up over his head in the wind and at the same time warding off bad boys who are tt:ying,~to. kick his crutches fror11 under him, is a very sad sight. But get four or five blocks away from the affair and., with our eye-sight at least, it will appear to be an irate photographer attempting tc focoo ··his camera on these same boys while they dance around before him in the attempt to kick over his tripod. Which is not sad. And with this brilliant simile we will drop the subject. I' I .: : • . . : Ricoc·heting to· the field of real war, we wonder if the married inebriate has ever greeted the where-have-you-been of his wife with, \Oh jus' somewhere in Champagne, m' dear!\ ' THEY MIGHT BETTER COMMUNICATE W1TH MARSCOW. - -We· notice fhat the French Acaderny of Science I . offers ·a 20,000 to the firsf person communicating with ~~~Y planet other than Mars. Which oseems to indicate that talking with the Marsians is too easy. Or perhaps the folks up Verdun way have threatened to pack up and depart for Alaska if the country fakes any more chances. ,The discords of the battle-field and the, shall we say confusion, of Wagnerian n1usic, are sadly alike to ou~ ears, and so we pass easily over to out next subject. Wagner, according to Mr. Amsern1et of the Ballet Russe, is about as popu- far as iimburger che~se in French mu-sical circles these days. They call him Wargner. and, when- ever any of his music reaches their ears, they go out into the streets and raid the nearest deli- catessen store. Mean,vhile, the German hand'S are reciprocating in kind and spurning anything with a French ou-la-la in it. Well, well, cheer llp over there! There's George Cohan! Speaking of Wagner, we see Matty twirled thr,ee fram,es yesterday and steatned over the old pill with worlds of stuffJ whiffing his men. THE INEBRIATES' PARAGRAPH. In this day of graphic advertising, why doesn't , the Keely Cure decry its merits as the Kill-or- Cure? For this inebriation, we are indebted to H. M. L., a simple wretch, who will giggle and gasp and roll his eyes at finding his name in the public prints. We go Hin1mel o. b., and suggest for a Keely synoname, The Reely Cure. Never having had the Trenton Gazette make a pass at us, we take it for granted that we are a free-and-easy joker in all good standing. We were handed down our talent, we learned son1e time ago, fron1 our parent on the masculine side. The revelation came at the Wesleyan game. In the height of the Union land-slide, Wesleyan called titne and the players gathered in a circle, heads down, to di-scuss ways and means of revenge. '·Hump! Praying won't save 'em!\ he said. NITE. THE SMILE. The sadness it weighs like the burden of years; The dry eyes are bright in their struggle with tears; The lips are tight-drawn and bated the breath, Hush, friend, for a space 'tis the moment of i death. Draw nearer the one that they mourn for and trace ·i gns of his suffering writ on his face- He sn1iles! has a vision perhaps-of a pall? Or finds as he tastes it death sweet after all? J. B. 1.

go deli- llp , L., a a a me of ? r When you want anything at QUINN'S Sch1nectady's Gr,eatest Drug Store Just Te/ep hone 12 85 Quinn Delivers Free With Hasty Messengers Geo. A. Cassedy Co. Established 1850 Dealers in VICTROLAS, PIANOS, SHEET MUSIC & MUSICAL MERCHANDISE 464-466 State Street, Schenectady, New York. Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Section South College Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all Kinds of Wax Polishes 212 SO. CENTRE ST. Steefel Broa. ALBANY, N. Y. Any man with good business judgment will come here now. 25% Discount Good business judgment manifests itself in buying at the right time-the right time to buy clothes is now-and here. 25% Discount on Steefel Suits and Overcoats-and they're Steefel's-w e operate clearance, sales to lower our own stocks rather than to aid a manufacturer unload. JOE. NUSBAUM Schenectady's Leading HATTER AND HABERDASHER 336 STATE STREET. Shoes With a Style Distinction Shoes for col- lege men and other young-·bloode<l men embody every feature demanded of high class footwear. Intelligent salesforce to give COC\- rect :fittings. BANNAN'S at $7 a1td $8. SUREFITS at $4 to $8. DANCING PUMPS (8 Stylea) $3 to $r;. PATTON ®. HALL SCHRNECTADY & SARATOGA. ' ',. ~ Ill: • ~ •• ~ ' .,. ' >~. ,(... • • ' \ f f ~ • ..~. '

22 THE ·coN·c·oRDIENSIS. A man is often politely hypocritic•al; a woman hypocritically polite.-- Yale Record. Ada1n-''Say, Eve, was that my suit you threw in the salad?\-· Widow. \What's that? They dun't pay day-wages in Ford's factory ?\ \No sah ! Even Ford himself is doing peace work.\-Pelican. Dawson-\About how many seats will there be for the Princeton gatne ?\ Oppie-\I can't tell exactly.\ Dawson-\W ell, roughly speaking, about how many?\ Oppie-''I never speak roughly.\ \Your dad is an old crank,\ said the youth who had been told by her father that 11 o'clock was the tin1e to go. Dad overheard the remark. \A crank is necessary in case of the lack of a .self-starter,\ he retorted.-Y ale Record. Ralph Nite, colymnist, is certainly a gen- tleman of distinction. He fills the paper with Bull And rolls his own. So1netin1es I wonder if he's ri~ht. <.l FIRESIDE POETRY. Said a Rag and a Bone and a Hank. of Hair ' \You're a drag and a drone and a tank of air.'' That's what the ex-stude calls a professor. THE ENGINEER'S LAMENT. Say, A. B. man, you are a high-brow. Finding ourself in the toils of adv·ertising again- a ~picy and a spacy subject!-we n1ay as well hesi- tate a moment upon the Spring circular of the Stetson Hat Co. Its cover is redolent of Spring, Pan ioS sitting upon the greensward piping merrily away to the evident enjoyment of the birds over- head in the trees. At least there is something about him that they seem to enjoy greatly-per- haps it is the green Stetson kelly he wears. Now there, we think, is a rattling good opening gone a- begging. The artist utterly tnissed the point when he crowned Pan in a oSoft hat instead of a straw. An impressive little quip that would have been-one hat would surely pop up in your mind when the hot time comes and you fare to the hat store. Pan-Panama-· you see? WRITING TO FATHER. 1st Student: cially ?\ \How do you spell 2nd Student: \F . . 1 1 -1-n-a-n-c--1-a- - -v . ' there are two rs in embarrassed.\ Read the advertisements. fin an- and STAR ALLEYS Ideal Lighting Good Ventilation BOWLING and BILLIARDS t • , f ~ 0 J ~ ' ,I • 0 ' , \ ... • ' • { 1 I , • ~ 1 '• '• , f , \ • ,• o\ • t , ., • 1 • ~ \:. ' ( r ,. , ' • Phone 3954 506 STATE STREET -

,:, . y g e t JOIN OUR CLUB AND OWN A BICYCLE on our easy paym,ent plan, $1 down and $1 a week, and take your choice of the following High Grade Wheels: New England, lver-Johnson, American, Pope Motor Bike By joining now you secure a discount ot 5, 7 or 10 percent. Let us give you particulars. BURKE 2 . 30 So Centre St Sole Agent Excelsior and Henderson ' • ' Motorcycles. 'Phone 2634 .. \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 190-4 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE. '17 CoUe.ae Ret>retentetive NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. HSchenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilities insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ 0 a~RROW COLLAR Shows over the coat in back; low sharp. smart curveaway front; good knot and slide space 2for fd5c CLUETT, PEABODY A CO., Inc., Makers. TROY, N.Y. CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean., ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. WHEN 'Phone 4489 IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

Spring Hats S . prtng Shirts Spring Clothes This way, please, if you desire the Newest and Best in Spring Outfitting! At this Good Clothes Store you get aU the style, the Finest Tailoring and the Choicest Fabrics--- The Distinctive Models that are Shown in this Store Exclusively. Spring Suits Spring Coats Come In, Look Them Over HTD 455 STATE STREET The Store That Creates---But Never Imitates Schenectady ~ Art Press

e ; CONCORDIENSIS VOLU:VIE 39 MARCH 23, tl)t6 NO. 19 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNNERSITY

UNION UNIVERSI CHA'RLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., lL D .. Chancellor =====co==-===\---==-----=~===========-~-===-- -m-· -~-----~-------- .. ··-- ·------ ~-- UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate aad graduate courses: 1. CJeu:r•e• leading te the degree -of A. B. C~ASSICA~ CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- !lli&sion to this courseo French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B-This course may be pur- sued by candidates who satisfy the require1nents for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. So e,ourse leading to the degree of Ph. B. U'l'IN-SCIE:NTI:l!'IC CouRstt-This course offers l.atin withou~ Greek, for which is substi~uted addi- tional work tn modern languages and science. 3. Course lending to the degree of B. So Scz~NTrFrc CoURSE- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Cource leading to the degree of B .. E. G~NERAit ENGINEERING CouRs~-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and medern languages. SANITARY ENGIN~ERING Cou:nsJt-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELEC'tRICAt, ENG-INEERING CouRsJt- This course is mtended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Cour•e• leading to gracluate 4egreea. CouRslt LEADING TO DECREE oF M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRsE LEADING TO D:~tGnrut or M.S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Counstt LEADING To DEG'2EE oF PH. D.- This coursf of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an eq ujvalent. For catalogues or other infonnation address F. C. BA.RN~s, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEP AR1''MEN'f OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 1838-A complete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate responsibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physics, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N.- Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for tnatriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. The academic year hegins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and other communication-s should be ad- dressed to THOMAS ORDWAYt M. D., Dean~ A.tba.ay, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building whotly devoted to i!s use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. lS three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $xo; tuition fee, $IIO. For catalogue or other information, address: ]OHN C .. WATSON 1 Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full in formation, address: AL1RED B. HuESTED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. !'IP\'\\'--------------·--~-- ........... -------· -------------------------·---~-------. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W SUITS PRESSED 25Cs DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, N.o. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate 1 ---------------------·--------------------~----------------~--~--·~ ·· m n · r r i • ' s p le of A· w: ev en en tic co: be n1E . lllt gy wi] SpE Ch alu wn h J ha\ the tne:

I ds. of ar ra r- ! ; \ I ! \· The Concordiensis VOL. 39 MARCH 23, 1916 NO. 19 STARS FROM GLOVERSVILLE CIRCUIT WILL TWINKLE AT THE ATHLETIC DINNER Popular Speakers, Good Food, and Dramatic Club Debut Will Make Night a Gala Time. If Chairman Chapman's plans for the Ath- letic Dinner to be given under the auspices of the Press Club on Tuesday evening, April 4, succeed,-as they undoubtedly will,-the occasion will be one of the big events of the year. The menu, speeches, and entertainment which he will offer the stud- ents for eighty-five cents, the price of one ticket, will all be above the ordinary stand- ards of prandial and post-prandial stuff. The catering will be done by Barney's, and contrary to previous custo1n, the dinner will be served by waiters and not by the fresh~ n1en members of the Press Club. Another innovation will be the decorations of the gym, especially for the occasion. Diluter will be served promptly at six-thirty. The speakers will be Doc Mac, Fred Dawson, Charlie Waldron and Dr. Richmond. An alumnus, whose name is not available at this writing will also be on the progra1n. The Dramatic Club, after the speakers have subsided, will present a few numbers ill the line of vaudeville and cabaret entertain~ tnent, which nothing ever seen at Proctor':; or Keeler's will equal,----that is, as far as masculine charms go. A one act skit will be presented featuring the greatest star from the Gloversville circuit together with the most distinguished artist from western. prairies, not born to waste his fragrance on the desert air. This number will be follow- ed by songs rendetred by our most accom- plished nightingales. In view of the prospect for the enjoyable evening which the Press Club offers, it is expected that the student body will attend en masse. HAL A. SCOBY TENDERED PREMIER BASETBALL HONOR. His Work at Forward a Factor in Year's Victories-A Graduate of North Tonawanda High School. At a meeting of the varsity basketball squad held in the gymnasiun1 Friday, Hal .A.. Scoby '17) right forward, was chosen to lead the tea1n next year. Scoby has played a hard and consistent gan1e at forward dut- ing the present season and has earned the honor. He entered Union from North Ton~ aV\randa High School and during his fresh~ tnan year ran on the cross-countty tean1 and played class basketball. He was in a few varsity gan1es during his second year hut \vas greatly handicapped by· a -vveak

lO THE CONCORDIENSIS. knee. This year his knee seems to have re- covered its full strength and as a result he played in every game and was one of the leading scorers. It was a difficult basket by Scoby in the last minute that brought Union from behind and gave us a victory over R. P. I. in the gym nasi urn this year. He is also president of the junior class, a member of Beta 'rheta Pi and one of the most popular men on the Hill. SOPHOMORE SOIREE REPO'RT. Chairman Jack Macauley Announces a Clearance of $2.22 on Succe·ss- ful Dance·. Jack Macauley, chairman of the 1915-16 Sophomore Soiree committee, gives the fol- lowing d'etailed report on his highly suc- cessful dance : EXPENDITURES. Music -------------------- --·--- $128 28 Caterer ------ ----·-------------- 134 50 Trees ------------ -------------- Piano ( Cluetts) -------·---------- p . . r1nt1ng ------ -----·------------ Decoration (man) --------------- Help-'~Joe,\ Women in cloak room, man at 1reoeiving line ____ _ Incidentals ---------·------------ 24 00 8 00 '{ 50 6 50 11 00 17 00 Total --------------·---------- $336 78 To H. F. Dewey----------------- 17 00 Total exp. -------------------- $353 78 RECEIPTS. 83 doubles ·at $3.50 --------------- $290 50 16 \stags\ at $2.50 -------------- 40 00 Patronesses, eto. ---------------- 25 50 Total ------------------------ $356 00 Exp., total -------------------- $353 78 ~et pront ---------------------- $ 2 22 ALBANY HIGH SCHOOL TRIMS SOPHOMORES BY 25-11 S:CORE. 1918 Team Unable to Cover Fast Albanians. Jones and Peaslee Star.· On Saturday night Captain Peaslee led his sophomore basketball team out to meet the fast five from Albany High. The game was marked by exceptionally clever pass work by the Albany team and this coupled with · thei1r extraordinary a hili ty to shoot bas- kets, gave them the victory. Captain Jones put up a star game for his team, while Madden and Peaslee did best for the sop- homores. The score: ALBANY F.B. Hanley, rf. -------- 2 Jones, If. ------·---- 2 Delehant, c. ------- 2 Taylor, rg. -------- 2 Schilling, lg. _______ 2 11* UNION. F.B. Lefkowitz, lf. ------ 1 Madden, rf. ----·--- 2 Peaslee, c. ----·---- 1 Fancher, lg. ------- 0 Calkins, rg. ------- 0 4 *Basket by default. F.P. 0 3 0 0 0 3 F.P. 0 0 3 0 0 3 Total 4 7 4 4 4 25 Total 2 4 5 0 0 11 Score-Albany, 25; Union 1918, 11. Score at half-Albany, 11; Union 1918, 8. Referee, Grout. NOTICE There will be a n1eeting of the Dramatic Club, in Washburn Ha11, at 7:15 Friday . eventng. FE 1 An I-II Un CO<: rer let: pre vvi1 ] tor car . 1or va1 tw· be( to his be( S01 leg n1<: ou aU ba· ev~ off me to lis to1 on lee St<

. lS THE CONCORDIENSIS. lJ FRED T. DAWSON'S CONTRACT AS GENERAL ATHLETIC COACH RENEWED BY ATHLETIC BOARD such connoisseurs as Connie Mack, John Me-· Graw, John Evers and Wilbur Robinson. It is to b~ hoped that Fred Dawson will place his name to many more Union con- Annonucement Proves Welcome News to tracts. Students Generally. I-IIS REGIME HIGHLY SUCCESSFUL. Under His Dire·ction Union Has Turned Out Many of Its Greatest Teams. Fred T. Dawson's contract as general coach of Union athletics was unanimously renewed at a special meeting of the Ath- letic Board last Wednesday evening. This proved welcome news to the student body, vvith whom he is highly popular. Fred Dawson was a graduate of Prince- ton University in the class of 1910. He was captain of the baseball tean1 during his sen- ior year in college, was a me1nber of the varsity team and, had it not been for the two-sport rule, would undoubtedly have been a varsity basketball man. He came to Union four years ago. Needless to say, his regime as director of our athletics has been splendidly successful. The football teams of the past two sea- sons have been the greatest that the col- lege has ever had. His presence here has n1ade OU!r basketball tean1 known through- out the country. Rated last year with Yale as all-collegiate champions, the five was prob- bably one of the finest college quintets that ever played together. This year he smoothed off a team of rough, green material into a machine that made the Tiger stretch himself to his utmost to win . . Baseball is his forte. He recently pub- hshed a book in collaboration with a Prince- ton baseball coach. It was a notable treatise on modern baseball, and book of value to the lea.rning player. The work met with in- stantaneous popularity, and was praised by FRIVOLOUS GLENN'S RES- TAURANT WILL ASSUME LITERARY AIR TOMORROW. Tomorrow night at 6 :30 the Concordy men will troop into Glenn's for their annual banquet. This yea·r everything is going to be better than ever. Dr. Chase will be the toastmaster and, of course, Prexy is coming to cheer us up with the best story of the evening. Dr. Berg will be there to make things exciting with a speech on we know not what. The other speakers will be Joe Soler, as president of the Press Club, Die~ Taylor as ~retiring editor and Silent :Kni'ght as the present editor. The food, which, it has been suggested is the all important problem, will be good, ac- cording to the committee which is composed oi Jim Taylor, chairman, Boots Chapman and Gib Carey. Come around and pay your $1.25 to the last, but at all events come to the ban- quet. FAMOUS CHARLIE MALE APPEARS. Famous Charlie Male, '13, of college band fame, has been encountered on the campus several times of late. He has returned from I-'anama, where he was employed in the field of engineering. \Charlie\ was an un- dergraduate of stupendous importance when in college, and is looked upon with awe even by the present seniors. A regular tneeting of the Classical Club was held in Washburn Hall, Tuesday even- ing. Business of routine nature was trans- acted.

12 THE CONCORDIEN:SIS. N-EWSPAPER MEN NEED POISE SAYS EDITOR OF UNION STAR. Mr. Callanan Speaks Before Members of the Press Club. Mr. Callanan, owner and editor of the Union-Star, spoke to the Press Club, Tues- day evening, March 14th, on the develop- ment of journalism. He showed that the need of poise, or intelligent judgment, is of greater importance for newspaper work than the need of education. He expressed the opinion that the :first- class country weekly is the best newspaper published, and the metropolitan daily is the worst. There is a natural desire on the part of all mankind for publicity. A newspaper is a looking glass to reflect the ideas and life of the people, and it is in this respect that the country weekly surpasses the big met- ropolitan papers. Nevertheless, the devel- opment of newspapers now tends towards amalgamation. It is practically impossible, except in newly settled regions, to start a successful newspaper. With the constant- ly increasing facilities for the distribution of news, it is natural for several small news- papers to con1bine, since in this way they can cover the same field at less expense. Sporting news, the woman's departn1ent, and \hutnorous strips\ are now practically the only forms of syndicate nevvs. Litera- ture, such as serial stories, which used to oc- cupy n1any columns or even pages in the newspaper of the past, are now covered by tl1e thousands of periodicals which flood the 1narket. The newspaper must cover the real news. The syndicate won1an's page is a permanent institution. If you get the women interested in your paper, you get your paper in the hotne. This is but one of the many psychological influences which the newspaper must have. for public opinion. This \education without poise\ is dangerous. There is a need for mature judgment on the part of editors who form the first firing line of public opinion. P:resident Wilson may take a week to pre- pare a note regarding the latest su bn1arine outrage, but the editor must indicate what course our national policies should take, with but a few hours', or even minutes' ' thought. The editor needs a broad educa- tion, a wide reading, but most in1portant of all, an intelligent poise. The newspaper re- porter must have a scent for news, a sim- plified language, and a condensed style. The public demands speed, accuracy, and lucidity. Mr. Callanan said in closing: \In the last day of chaos, when the universe is rocking in space, the newspaper reporter will be seen leaping· from rock to rock, amid the flowing lava, to get the last scrap of news for the final edition.\ MOVIES SHOW HANDLING OF MILK Dr. Cassius Way Lectures on \Clean Milk and the Public Health.\ \Clean Milk and the Public Health.\ was the subject of a lecture delivered by Dr. Cas- sius Way, Friday evening, under the aus- pices of the Department of Chemistry. Dr. 'vV ay is chief veterinary with the Borden Con1pany. Three films of motion pictures illustrated the lecture and showed the production, care and handling of g['ade A milk, grade B milk, and certified milk. The pasteurization pro- cess was shown in detail. About 400 cus- totners use pasteurized milk in Schenectady. This milk has been kept at 140 degrees Fahrenheit for 30 minutes. It is the only safe milk. The lecture was well received by an appreciative audience. A highbrow is a n1an, educated beyond his intelligence, who has an utter contempt There was a regular meeting of the Cos- n1opolitan Club on Tuesday evening. LJ Clc of to 1 cal las1 111 wo wh lio the sen dep J toe neg find tmp bor dis~ his tner at t But the old eas) the· 81 thre sn1a part slav The I<: in! ( thei1 thei1 hin1~ Tl Jaco

, t THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 LATIN PLAYERS SCORE IN TWO PRESENTATIONS Classical Club Members Present Play Before Upper Hudson Classical 'Club and Local High School. The Latin players of the Classical Club of the College presented \Jvppiter Minus\ to the n1enibers of the Upper Hudson Classi- cal Club at the Schenectady High School last Saturday afternoon. As previously stated in the \Conco1rdiensis the mitne is the work of Professor George Dwight Kellogg, who took the suggestion and the moral from 1-Iorace's first satire.~ Man's discontent is the subject of the skit. The students pre- sented the mime on Tuesday before the Latin department of the High School. J uppiter was represented as coming down to earth and finding his altar stone cold £1rom neglect. Assuming a human disguise, he finds men selfish and discontented as weH as impious, each professing to envy his nei~gh­ bor's lot. J uppi ter leaves for Olympus in disgust, but returns with his thunderbolt in his hand to set the affairs and discontent- tnent of n1an aright. He takes the characters at their word and causes their lot to change. But then this does not prove satisfactory to the discontented, and they are given their old lots again. The Latin was extren1el~v easy to understand, and the pronunciation of the players was exceedingly distinct. Stein was very much at home behind the threads of cotton and is deserving of no sn1all praise when one considers that his part covered nearly half of the mime. 1'he slav:s were very clever in their dialogue. T?elr costumes ren1inded us of Topsy. I(Ing, Younie, Poersch and Heatley with th . etr unusually Rotnan costun1es played th . h' etr parts as well as the coaching of Terence 1 ll 1 self could have accomplished. The players were: Prologus, A vrom Jacobs; Juppiter, Ignatz Stein; Geta Aqui- lifer, a slave of Juppiter, William Kennedy, }r.; D 1 avus, vidulifer, a slave of J uppiter, Leo Smith ; Rusticus, Marvin King; Juris Con- sultus, John Y ounie; Miles, Clyde Heatley; N auragus, Mathias Poersch; Caupo, Milton Ketchu·m. UNION GETS FELLOWSHIP IN COL- UMBIA SCHOOL. Announcement was made by Dr. Rich- n1ond Monday that the Dean of Columbia University ha~ informed him of the pre- sentation to Union of a fellowship in the Columbia graduate school of mining. The honor has probably been the fruit of the excellent work done by Union students in the New York school during the past few years. Following are the officers of Union's re- juvenated dramatic club : President, Meade Brunet ; vice-president, Phil Downs; seore- tary and treasurer, Kenneth Creble ; man- ager, Fawcett Porter; assistant manager, John Jackson. There wil be no Concordy issued next vveek. CLASS DAY OFFICERS NAMED. At a 1neeting of the senior class yester- day the officers for the annual class day were chosen. This year Paul A. Hauenstein of Buffalo will be the class n1arshal and Eugene Hum- n1er of Ravena will deliver the class oration. Other officers elected are: Historian, Meade Brunet; pipe orator, Horace Zimmer; prop- het, Avrotn Jacobs; poet, Richard E. Taylor; ivy orator, Lee C. Fletcher.; keeper of the jug. I(enneth B. Hanson. The 'ruskegee Jubilee Singers from Tus- kegee Institute will sing more of the old plantation n1elodies in chapel on March 24.

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. 'THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., aos Second Class !-fatter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Ralph Knight ____________ Psi Upsilon Hou-se MANAGING EDITOR. Fawcett W. Porter '17 ---------- Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR. William C. Loughlin '17, Phi Gamma Delta House LITERARY EDITOR David F. Chapman '17 --------- Delta Phi House ASST. LITERARY EDITOR Rudolph W. Schwartz '17 ____ 37 Glenwood Blvd AS-SOCIATE EDITORS W. G. Carey, Jr., '18 E L. Newell '18 F. G. Bascom '18 S W. Talbot '18 H. L. Cook '18 REPORTORIAL STAFF. H. H., Newton '19 Adam Bailey '19 G D. Rosenthal '19 W. R. Barnett '19 C. A. Brind, Jr., '19 A. B. Dougal '19 E. }. Griswold '19 K. H. Gorham '19 V. H. Scales '19 Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectadv, N. Y. MAKING THE OLD, OLD BOW. The old, old bow of the new_, new editor. Per- haps it will seem a trifle -stiff-an affected bob, rather than the customary Ca valierie swoop- for we prefer to bend conservatively, tactiturnly, that, as the day rolls around when we, too, must move out, we may spare ourself the trouble of lamenting upon the drabness of our was-to- have-been brilliant regime. Nothing would pleaose us more than to see Concordiensis appear weekly with terse, lively news that has combed the field cleanly, with editorials of power, and humor of the truest type, with a department teeming with communications of alumnus and undergraduate and, preeminently, with a wealth of literary ef- fort which will hold the mirror to Union's high- est ability. Thios is our goal, but we do not promise to have so much as rounded the first lap when our race is over. At the start, we ad- mit weakness, and call for help. To the alumni, we call for literal support. Write to us upon any subject under the sun-but write. Blame tt'S for our shortcomings. or anybody's or anything's shortcoming in college affairs as they are but write. Praise us or anybody or anything in col. lege if you are so dioSposed. Write to us, and help tighten the bond between active and passive Union men through Concordiensis. To under. graduates, we especially plead for literary awak. ening. There are men in college .who are selling work regularly; seldom indeed do they design to notice Concordy's columns. There are many other.s who write excellently, but they say, \Oh! well, maybe!\ when asked for help. They'll turn out something some time or other-when they get around to it! To these men, who are na. turally interested in things literatesque, isn't it worth odd half hours, that will never be missed, tu see Concordiensis filled with something more than steals from other college papers? Can't we touch a spark of literary pride in these men- pride that wiU move them to give their best ef- forts in their chosen line just as freely as does the lowly, battered -scrub on the football field? As for news and editorials and hu-mor, it is our business to furnish these and, with a helpful boost here and there, and the backing of a board the which no editor ever had better, we should sure- ly find our goal much nearer when the race ioS done. * * * * * AN IMPORTANT MILE STONE. Once or twice in one's college course the on- ward march of college activities leads past a mile stone which marks something momentous. The ousting of our dramatics from its lethargy ios not, in itself_, such an astoundingly important occur- rence, for it was bound to come sooner or later, but the manner in which it all came about is import- ant and stamps it as -something decidedly more than a flash in the pan. Once the ball was hoisted from its hole, there was a swarm of shoulders ready to heave to and start it rolling. Should- er-s, which evinced signs of being well able to stand the blisters that will arise when the first serious up-grade is reached-when the edge be- gins to wear off the first burst of enthusiaoSm, and the tediousness of the job begins to fray the nerves a little. The lone hope of all this should- ering atnounting to a row of beans lie.g in its s I1 e d 0 n a a 0 t< s~ p f~ b: w tc . Cl C( ar pl th th qt Be wl th w re' the ag a at( we Co fe( ba1 bri he1 lll~ inf Syi lo-v thi ln

but col. and der. ling to hen na. it we n- ef- oes ld? ost . loS re rs st THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 showing our Missourian student body that Union has the substance where-of to build up an amuse- ment corps that will amuse-that wiU amuse enough to make it worth the incorporation of a dollar dramatics tax in with the other stupendous odds and ends of Mr. Dewey's reg.istration state- ment. This once done, the ball is a-top the hill and just moving .off under its own momentum for a merry journey down the other side. On the other hand, if the students at large can't be won to oSuch a frame of n1ind, we will all be here to see the ball get heavy enough to knock its sup- porters galley west and scatter dramatic debris far and wide in a l1asty and unarrested tumble back down into its old hole. * * * * COMMONS SENSE. If this tenacious winter doe.gn't spread all the way over summer a:nd dove-tail with the next one to come, we can leave this spring with the anti- cipation of finding on our return next fall a corner of the college woods spirited into the brick and mortar of Butterfield Memorial. Then the physicists and chemists will etnerge forever from the antique gloom of the colonnade and take their horrible noises and horrible smells into quarters of comparatively Solomonic splendor. Behind them will be left much vacant rootn- which is splendidly fitted for the very !thing that Union needs the most in all this world . We have never heard the knock of opportunity reverberate so loudly before .. And never have the times been more ripe. Not a heavy per cent- age of the whole, of course, but, nevertheless, a good round num.ber of -students, are so situ- ated, both financially and geographically, that it would come as a boon among boons to them. Convenience to the student purse and the student feet would be, however, but a drop in the rain barrel in the light of its influence toward'S the brightening and homifying of the student life ?ere. Brightening and homifying it and work- tng out the inevitable result-a Union of men infinitely more closely knit together in common sympathies and common emotion'S and common love for Alma Mater. So, po·wers that be. give tl . . . lts th1ng to us-give us a College Commons ln the old colonnade. •••••••••••••••••••••• $ + A DEFINITION. • •••••••••••••••••••• In a recent issue of the Atlantic Monthly, an attempt was made to define what col- lege ~pirit really is. We believe it is a very good conception of the same and worthy of the attention of all Union men. \Some men mean by college spirit ~orne­ thing :finer than lawlessness, dissipation and rowdyism. They mean the loyalty to an in- stitution which makes a student guard its good name by being tnanly and courteous in his conduct at all times. They mean the sense of responsibility which aids a student in forming habits of temperance and indus- try. They mean that eagerness to make a grateful use of his opportunities which leads a student to keep his own body fit. his mind alert and his thoughts pu·re. They mean that loyalty to a college wh~ch rivets a man to the severest tasks of scholarship, through which he gains intellectual power and enthusiasm, without which no graduate is an entire credit to any college; and finally, they mean that vision of an ideal life be- yond commence1nent which s~ows a man that only through the rigid subordination of transient and trivial pleasures· can he hope to become the only great victory a Univer- sity ever wins-a trained, devoted and in- spired alumnus, working for the welfare of n1ankind.\ Forty-two men vvere taken on the special car to Gloversville 1~uesday evening for the Musical Club concert. The big boss sent Kerrigan out to see if any liquor was sold on Sunday, and when he came back Friday he said there was.- trh e Louisville (Ken.) T-T erald.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. + i~ BROTHER JONATHAN. ~ By Charles Alexander Richmond + --t+ --t+ --tf (RepP.nted £rom \Outlook by Consent of •l• + Dr. Richmond.) ·+ I Brothe.r Jonathan sat by the kitchen fire, N ursin~ his foot on his knee. '•It's a turrible fight they're havin' out there, But they can't git over to me.\ And Jonathan jingled the coins in his hand' An' thanked the good God for the sea. II \They'll be wantin' n1y cattle and hogs and corn An' powder and guns mebbe, ~· + B~t they'll pay on the nail! cash down, by gum! For all they git from me.\ An' he smiled kinder slow and jingled the coins \It's good for business,\ sez 'ee. III \l'hey 1 re killin' 'em off like flie\S they say, • I . They can't blame it onto me. ' : ,It, ain't my war, yet I do feel bad For th·em poor Belgiums,\ sez >ee. And he took a few dollars out of his jeans And sent it across the sea. IV Then he heard they'd drowned a thousand men, .L-'\nd some from Amerikee. So he said right out, \If you do that ag'in You'll git me mad,\ .gez 'ee. An' h~ kep' on jinglin' the coins in his han' An' thanking God for the sea. v They did 't ag'in and then ag'in. \I'll give you fellers a piece o' my mind \You quit that now,\ sez 'ee. If I git hoi' o' ye.\ }\.n' he winks one eye with his tongue tn his cheek; ''l'm too proud to fight,\ sez 'ee. VI Then they got to plottin' and blowi11' up things, An' he sez: \You let me be. I w'on't stand the'Se furrin tricks o' yourn In this here land o' the free.\ And it. got old Jonathan all het up, An' he took his foot from his knee. VII An' he got to thinkin' and thinkin' hard, Worryin' how it would be, An' wondering what in Sam Hill he'd do If some pesky enemy With all them dreadnaughts and submarines Came a-rippin' across the sea. VIII An' he thought of the army he wished he had, An' he reckoned up his navy. \J gue.gs I've set here long enough, I'll have to get busy,\ sez 'ee.\ But the last I saw he was a-settin' there yit An' stroking his long goatee. IX It ain't no time to be settin' round_, I kin tell ye-no sirree. He better be gittin' up out o' that cheer An' git outdoors and see, An' do his chores an' fix thing.g up The way they oughter be. X He might be helpin' them coustns o' hisn To fight fer liberty, An' he might git in a few licks hisself J es' fer humanity. Anyhow, I wish he'd quit jinglin' them coins An' thankin' God fer the sea. 1916 '17 CONCORDY BOARD ELECTED Editorial Staff Has New Personelle With This Issue~Nine Freshmen Named as Reporters. The new Concordiensis board has been elected, and the staff will be as follows: H. Ralph Knight, of Glens Falls, editor-in- chief; managing editor, Fawcett w. Porter, of Omaha; literary editor, David F. Chap- man, of Broadalbin; assistant literary editor, Rudolph W. Schwartz, of Albany; athletic editor, William C. Loughlin, of Fort Ed- wwrd. The new staff are all members of the class of 1917. Five associate editors were elected from th~ sophomore class. These are: W. Gibson Carey, of Schenectady ; Frederick G. Bas- com, of Fort Edward; Harold L. Cook, of At an H< Rc of vV De of erL wit CE Spe T Hev Chu kno sevt D on bet\ feeli the H disci reali frorr. titne God) ers, His 1 figur Ewa close Co ough lllent sider

n ' c THE CONCORDIENSIS. 17 Auburn; Sidney ·G. Talbot, of Schenectady; and Earl L .. Newell, of East Aurora. The freshmen elected reporters are : Hazleton Newton, of Ballston; George D. Rosenthal, of St. Louis; Charles A. Brind, of Albany; Adams Bailey, of Mechanicville; vVilliam R. Barnett, of Newburgh; Arthur B. Dougal, of Schenectady; Karl H. Gorham, of Lenox, Edmund J. Griswold, of Sling- erlands; and Victor H. Scales, of Glens Falls. The new board takes up the editorial reins with this issue. CHRIST WAS BOTH PHILOSOPHER AND PHILANTHROPIST, SAYS DR. McEWAN. Speaker Be.fore Sunday Vespers Tells of Intimacy and Relationship Between God and Man. The speaker at Sunday vespers was the Hev. D~r. McEwan of the First Presbyterian Church of Amsterdam. Dr. McEwan is well known here, having spoken in vespers on several occasions. Dr. M·cEwan gave a very interesting talk on the intimacy and relationship existing between God and man, and on the actual feeling of kindredship which exists between the two. He spoke of the feeling of loss which the disciples experienced when they can1e to realize that Christ was to be actually taken from them. Christ's words to thetn at this titne, His staten1ents that He was one with God, and his commandn1ents to His follow- ers, as well as the events at His baptism, His kindliness to the outcasts, and the Trans- figuration scene were, according to Dr. Mc- Ewan, actual and living proofs of Christ's close relationship to mortal man. Continuing, the speaker went into a thor- ough discussion of the greatest of command- ments, and showed how Christ must be con- sidered as the 1nost wonderful of philan- thropists and philosophers. He spoke of the great accomplishments brought to pass through obedience of the great command- n1ent \Love thy neighbor as thyself.\ So- ciety itself· was dependent on the love of neighbor. The value of property, the con- ducting of business, and the actual living of life itself were also dependent upon this same feeling, and the fact that isolation leads but to degredation and death were further proofs of the fact. It is to be ~regretted that the vesper ser- vices do not have a n1uch larger attendance. T'he speakers are invariably men of the greatest abilities, and each and every one has had a message of vi tal importance to college rt1en. The majority of the speakers are themselves old college men, and they can realize and appreciate the ideas and thoughts that would appeal and be of assistance to the college men of today. The services are real, vital, and inspiring. Union men who att~nd find them fully wo,rth while, and will real-· ize the true importance such services should have in college life. NOTES GLEANED IN SILLIMAN HALL. The notninations of the Union College Christian Association cabinet for the ensu- ing year are as follows: President, John Imrie. Vice-President, Arthulf Newman, Le- Roy Bailey. Treasurer, Clarence Bull, John Moore. Secretary, William May, Charles Craven, \\T arren v\1 elsey, Victor Scales. D·r. Hoffn1.an has finished the philosophi- cal discussion of missions and is now plan- . ning to discuss the psychological view. Pro- fessor Taylor has been giving an extremely interesting course on the religions on the east. His rare collection of images have made the work very instructive.

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ++++++++++++++++++++ •:. \FORWARD MARCH TO PLATTS- i>> + BURGr' + By Ned Moore, Psi U. House. ++++++++++++++++++++ To describe in detail the order of the day at a Plattsburg camp would require a lot of space; but I hope to be able to give an idea of an average day's routine in this week's column. First call is at 5 :45 A. M.; Reveille is at 5 :55; and a man must be dressed and out, ;ready to fall in line when the call Assern- bly is sounded at 6 :00. After inspection about fifteen minutes are devoted to setting- up exercises and the con1pany is then dis- missed, which leaves fifteen minutes before the Mess Call at 6 :30. After mess a man has time to clean up his tent, arrange his ~ffects, and··· get his equiptnent ready for drill. First Call for Drill is sounded at 7' :25, followed by Assembly at 7 :30 and the rest of the morning is taken up in in- struction in the Manual of Anns, Close- order Drill, Extended-order Drill, and minor tactics, with hourly rests of ten 1ninutes each. The instruction is progressive both in the nature and severity of the work as the length of attendance increases. A bout a half an hour is left after Recall before J\1e~s Call at noon~ In the afternoon there is nothing re- quired until 2:00 P. M. when the various de- tails march to their optional work or when instructions is given in the use and care of the rifle and equipment. An Inst1ruction Course . and Record Course are also given on the Barracks range during the first three weeks. Recall is sounded at 4 :00 and Re- treat is blown at 4 :45. After the formation at Retreat there is about twenty tninutes practice in Close-Q,rder which leaves about forty-five n1inutes before mess at 6 :00. After mess if there is no half-hour lecture (which occurs about three times a week) the tnen are free to do as they please until 'raps (9 :30 or 10 :00) when all lights tnust be out in quarters and silence must be pre- served. Pern1ission to stay out later than 'faps n1ay be secured previous to each occa- . ston. The last nine or ten days are spent on a practice march or \hike on which there is manoeuvering every day accon1panying the day's march of about ten miles. Regular troops operate with and against the \rook- ies\ in these tnanoeuvres. This routine may seem to be rather stren- uous at fi,rst glance, but in reality it is not severe, for one becomes gradually hardened to the marching and the carrying of the full equipment. In addition the continual out- door life and a sufficiency of good whole- some food keeps a man in the best possible shape. N. B.-Official communications from the Chiefs of Staffs assure us that the Mexican situation shall not interfere with the con- tinuance of the catnps this summer. Up to March 15th the total enrollment from the Capitol district has reached twen- ty-six. * * * * The Tecotnmended Munson last army shoe n1ay be purchased in town from White. State Street (corner of Jay), for $4.50. * * * * * Uniforms tnay be purchased by mail. Concerns selling unifortns are: Ar1ny and Navy Co-operative Co., 16 East 42nd Street. New York; Sigmund Eisner, 103 Fifth Avenue, New York; Warnoch B,ros., 17 West 31st Street, New York; the Harding· Uniform Co., 22 School Street, Boston. Mass., or any other military outfitters. * * * :tc * \It is strongly recommended that the typhoid prophylaxis inoculation be taken at the camp or before, if preferred. (No charge for this treatment at the camp or for ap- proved applicants at Governor's Island, N. Y.) Not obligatory.\ me: to j aw: cov bol' hag gre; fes~ this slee the and Sot bad wor ded No, thet Pla, can wor oth( eno1 the . Wln: ., fin a: drea this hav, men stor. leg-e

a . lS be ar k- n- ot n- nt n- at p- THE CONCORDTENSIS. 19 SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. Sound the gay hozannas ! Pluck the instru- ments of three strings! Do whatever you do to the tocsins ! For the tsetse fly has flown away; our poor dramatics have cast away the covers of their death bed and are striding boldly about the campus, a little pale and haggard, of course, but convalescing fast. A great and satisfying occasion, this. We con- fess that we had hardly hoped for it to come this year, but we had felt that if the poor sleeper could have held on until next fall the tin1e would have been ripe to revive it .and it would have been accordingly done. So much the better as it is, for it can now get back its health with impunity in the easy work of the spring and be whole-souledly on deck:: for a long and strong pull next year. Now then, the next thing to do is to elevate them to the plane of the n1usical clubs. Place them under faculty supervision if it can be done; build them up until they are worthy to fare forth into the world as other college clubs do-until they are good enough to be a real advertising medium to the college and worthy to be taken under its wing beside the musical clubs and given financial support. This is no typewriter dream. Williams, for instance, discovered this. many years ago, and their dramatics have long vied with their music as an instru- ment for inveigling the high school boy into stores where they sell green caps. The col- leg-e possesses a flood of material vvhich is simply hesitating for a breaking of the dam to over-run the lo\v-lands of our dramatic inertia. Harness this power, you ·revivalists; put it into comedy roles-musical prefer- ably-keep well away from anything at all heavy, for college audiences look for light- ness and, to coin a word, pep. Stage two or three sketches in a trial way to start the ball rolling. Then, well along in the spring, put on something big and, if it succeeds, stage it once or twice in neighboring towns before commencement. Things will then be ripe for a motion in student meeting to the effect that a tax of, say one dollar, be col- lected by the college treasurer from each student at matriculation. And that mile- stone safely passed, there will stretch out a stnooth, open road ahead. Dear old friend Marbury sent a produc·- tion of \Nobody Home\ to us on Saturday. Y.,. ou might say it was good and then again you might say it was bad. Albeit, it leaped out to the most radical extremes in both con- ditions; the inconsistency of the cast was positively nerve 'racking. We had previous- ly seen \Nobody Hon1e\ in the New York original and knew it to be a rattling good show as its specie goes-a show which thriv- ea about the personality of Adele Roland, but one which -vve expected would vvhither away and becon1e chronically anaemic on her extraction therefrom. We did not, hovvever, expect that \vhen she did depart the remainder of the cast would remain vvholly untouched from quaint Lawrence Grossmith all the \vay down the scale to be-pantseyed Gertrude W aixel. And this is vvhy vve can't decide whether the production as staged here was good or not. Zoe Bar- nett, \rho filled Adele Roland's slippers, was utterly incompetent. She is no tnore fitted to fill the part than we, draped in skirts, -v.:ould be. On the other hand, the rest of the cast was superb. ~rhere vou are--dravv ; our ovvn conclusion.

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ODDS AND ENDS. After the stress and strain of getting under way is over, famous On Your Way will be recom- menced greater and grander than ever before. Union men generally would read the Union-Star and the Knickerbocker Press with far greater reli.Sh if there were a cessation of the recent inane burblings about the fraternity politics and hor- rible inside dealings which regularly mark our captainship elections. The charges are wholly un- founded, and the men who write are entirely mis- informed of the conduct of elections at Union. To reporters, we respectfully beg that you cease from decorating your stories with heads. Head-writing is our job and, furthermore, we like to do it. BASE BALL WORK UNDER WAY The baseball season has begun. Every Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 4:30 and every Saturday at 3 :00 the squad is to re- port at the gym for work preparatory to the outdoor training which will begin as soon as the weather permits. Already somewhat over thirty men are reporting regularly. \Vith outdoor practice this number will doubtless be increased considerably, but each of the thirty men now out is determined to make the varsity, and the man who works from the beginning has the best chance. If you are coming out for baseball, do so im- mediately. If you have any ability, do you.r share to make this year's ~record a list of victories. Although every man is expected to prac- tice more frequently than the four set days if it is possible, the pitchers and catcherc; especially ,must put in extra time, both after the regular practice and also on days when there is no practice. Evell\y man on the squad this year 111ust have a copy of the book on baseball by Billy Clark and Fred Dawson. The reason for such a demand is prefectly evident. By studying this text book, on which there will be tests, the men will be able to learn much n1ore about the gam·e than otherwise vvould be possible. Billy 'Clark has been for )\ears proJ!linent in the baseball world, first in pro- fessional circles, and then as P1rinceton's <:-oach. Furthermore, the book has been highly complimented and recommended by such 1nen as Connie Mack, Hugh Jennings, :rv1.cGraw and Wilbur Robinson. M ish ter Shmith -I)on't your wife mish you when you get drunk? Mishter Shn1ithshon-Not very-hie- often. She'sh an exxceptionally good shot. l\1r. Corger did not escape entirely. He vvas hit on the contrary.-The Colorado Springs (Col) Citizen. Y. M. C. A. ELECTS NEW OFFICERS. The results of the Y. M. C.· A. elections · held in Sillin1an Hall last evening, were as follows: John Imrie '17, president; Arthur H. Newman '18, vice-president; Clarence J. Bull '17, treasurer; Victor H. Scales '19, re- cording secretary. STAR ALLEYS Ideal Lighting Good Ventilation BOWLING and BILLIARDS SUJA4 A OUZtS &! . LEE! Phone 3954 506 STATE STREET ·----------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ ·- ]

for By will ould pro- ' on s by ngs, . lC- hot. He RS. ons as hur J. re- JOIN OUR CLUB AND OWN A BICYCLE on our easy payment plan, $1 down and $1 a week, and take your choice of the following High Grade Wheels: New England, lver-Johnson, American, Pope Motor Bike By joining now you secure a discount ot 5, 7 or 10 percent. Let us give you particulars. BURKE, 230 So. Centre St, ~;~o!::~~.Excelsior an~P~':.~d2~3:. ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1.903 1900 1004 uno WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 UH2 1.907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE,' 17 Colle4!e Re1)reseontati¥e NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 l9H 1915 The Wallace Co . 4 ~Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie~ insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. --------------------·----------------------------- ---------------- Tile Best in Cream, Butter, Etc .. ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ Shows over the coat in back; low sharp .. smart curveaway front; good l{notandslidespace ~for ~5c CLUE'M'. PEABODY & CO., Inc., Mnkers. TROY, N. 'V CLEANLINESS lends you an additional chann. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a ne-cessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs cleaa- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. ~Phone 1909-J 440 State Street ----- ------------ Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

Spring Spring Hats Shirts Spring Clothes This way, please, if you desire the Newest and Best in Spring Outfitting! At this Good Clothes Store you get all the style, the Finest Tailoring and the Choicest Fabrics--· The Distinctive Models that are Shown in this Store Exclusively. Spring Suits Spring Coats Come In, Look Them Over HTD 455 STATE STREET The Store That Creates---But Never Imitates Schenectady ~ Art Press

