e Jl~CORDIENSIS \ I VOLUME 39 JUNE 14, 1916 NO. 27 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

CHARLES Al~EXANDER RICHMON'D, D. D., LL~ D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Oou:r•e& leading to the degree of A.. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B -This course may be pur- sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. s. CGur•e leading to the degree of Ph. n. LA'riN-SCIEN'l'IFIC CouRSE-This course offers ~atin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the deg·ree cf. B. S. Sci~N'l'IFIC CouRSE- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Cour&e leading to th~ 4egi·ee of B. E. GJtNltRAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, cemprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ·ENGINEERING CouRSJt-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. E~B:CTRICA~ ENGINEltiUNG CouRs~-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. &. Oourse• leading to graduate degreea. CouasE r..EADING To DEGREit OF M. C. E.-This eour-se of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Couns:tt LltADING TO n~tmut:s or M.S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consist' of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE L~ADING 'to DltGllEE OF PH. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M S. in E, E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L. V. Herf'ington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W . DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 1838-A complete reorganization has been effected ·during the past year. Largely increased Hospital . facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate respon~Sibility under supervision. The lahoratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to. improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. Admission Requireme·nts: Each candidate for ad- mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physic·s, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. 1 The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and other communication~S should be ad- dressed to THOMAS 0RDW.AY, M. D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a_ building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two seme$tera. Expenses : Matriculation fee, $Io ; tuition fee, $IIO. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Secretary,- Aibany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-elnuled course of instruction comprising two terms of aeven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving_ full information, address: ALFRED B. HuES'l'ED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25o. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and· Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Acroaa from the Green Gate VOL. 39 lVIEMBE:E ARJ Service.s F. HE:E Bachelor ] Thecla~ ir..g in the n1embers Union. A candidate~ dent Rich gathered i uates and preceding rhe proce~ the churc them. TJ by the Ho Followi For the ford Davi Chase Fie Gunning, bany; Mi skill; Mi James B< .,. t ,... .r.:.ras us _

The Concordiensis VOL. 39 JUNE 14, 1916 NO. 27 lVIEMBERS OF 1916 ARE YOUNGEST ALUMNI; WERE GRADUATED TODAY. Service.s Held in First Presbyterian Church. HERRICK IS CHANCELLOR. Bachelor of Electrical Engineering Was Most Sought for Degree. The class of 1916 was graduated this morn·- ir..g in the First Presbyterian Church and its n1embers are now the youngest alumni of Union. At 9:30 o'clock the trustees and candidates for honorary degrees met at Presi- dent Richmond's house, while the faculty gathered in Silliman Hall. The undergrad- uates and the alumni, the younger classes preceding, formed in front of the chapel and r he procession moved down Union street to the church where seats were reserved for them. The chancellor's address was made by the Honorable Myron T. Herrick. Following is a list of the graduates: For the degree of Bachelor of Arts: Mul- ford David DeForest, Schenectady; I.,..ee Chase Fletcher, Gillett, Pa.; William C3Jrroll Gunning, Freeport; Avron Myer Jacobs, Al- bany; Milton DeForest Ketchun1, Wynant- skill; Milton Hij.mes Sternfeld, Albany; James Barker Taylor, Greenville; Richard Frastus Taylor, Greenville. For the degree of Bachelor of Philosophy: ChaJrles Foster Brown, Schenectady; Ken- neth Boardman Hanson, Albany. For the degree of Bachelor of Science: I-larlan Barrett Allen, Lowville; William Mansfield Clinnick, Schenectady; Reving- ton Lyman Embree, Stamford, Ct.- Harold Brooks Gardner, Meadowdale; Paul Alfred Hauenstein, Buffalo; Eugene J. Hummer, Ravena; Cornelius D. Lowell, Mt. Clen1ents, Ivfich. ; Philip Tage Mallen, Chicago, Ill.; Barron Peck Reed, New York City; Karl Montgomery Stoller, Schenectady; Leon Blanchard Streeter, Lake George; Leland Russell Van Wert, Melrose; Schuyler Vro- man, Middleburg; ·Horace Zimmer, Glovers- ville. For the degree of Bachelor of Engineer- ing (civil): Meade Cook Brunet, Peter burg, Va.; George .Edward DeRouville, Albany; Albert Ingalls Howd, Schenectady; James Taylor Landreth, Schenectady; Jose da Assis Ribeiro, Sao Paulo, Brazil; Jose Cuba da Souza, Soa Paulo, Brazil; Leon Edward Turpi t, Elnora. For the degree of Bachelor of Engineering (electrical) : Walter Ransom Gale Baker, Schenectady; Lucius Eugene Baldauf, Eden; Walter Allen Churchill, Oswego; Peter J. M. Clute, Schenectady; Carl Frederick Dan- ner, East Aurora; Harry Clifford Dikeman, Freeport; Lloyd Elmer Du-nkelberger, Lock- port; Donald Alexander Ennis, Stamford, Ct. ; Santiago Escalante Tariba, Venezuela ;

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. The Class of 1916. Nathaniel Augustus Finch, Jr., Buffalo; John Flam, Schenectady; Walter Franck, Sche ... nectady; Everett Edward Garrison, Yon- kers; Howard Glenn, Scotia; Daniel Jerome Keleher, Port Chester; Har- old Miller Lewis, Geneva; George Glenn Mercer, Schuyler Lake; Ralph Merton Mix- ter, Warren; Millard Harold ~ioulds, Sel- kirk; Raymond Arthur Newton, Sydney; Howard Britton Santee, Williamson; Robert Thon1as Scully, Schenectady ; Carlton New- ell Smith, Schenectady; Benjamin Spa,ragen, 'vV arwick ; William Sparagen, Warwick ; Charles Van Orden Terwilliger, Albany; Xenophon D. Theocharides, Marsovan, Tur- key; Walter Elsworth \Vynne, Albany. ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE HEARS DR. RICHMOND. Dr. Richmond was a speaker at the Albany Medical College alun1ni dinner Friday night. During his talk he predicted that the future would bring more rigid requirements for ad- tnission to the college, and a higher standard of scholarship. S. W. Rosendale, president of the college's board of trustees, presided at the graduation exercises in the afternoon. After presenta- tion by Dean Ordway, the graduating class was given diplomas by Dr. Richmond. JAMES E Popular ~ James ] selected a by the fac Taylor w: Arts. He Ph1 Beta In coll€ ::1ctive. E ~he Class ing in the sap~on1or have beer i~tant lite1 man-Sopb 1881 The cla Monday there beir ent. The white a·rrr. ing durin D. Mene€ were mac quartet £1 ed severa: '8'1 in the:

THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 JAMES BARKER T A YLO R VALEDICTORIAN OF 1916. Popular Student Given Honor by Faculty in Thursday Meeting. James Barker Taylor, of Greenville, was selected as valedictorian of the class of 1916 by the faculty in meeting last Thursday. Taylor will take the degree of Eachelor of Arts. He was one of the six n1en to re~t-'·ive Ph1 Beta Kappa key~ in the year's e]\=-ction. In college acti:vities, he has been widely ::1ctive. He was for four years a rnen1ber of ~he Classical and Adelphic Society, hold- ing in the latter the office of treasurer in his sap~on1ore year. His other important honors have been: literary editor, 1916 ~'l~net, as- i~tant literary editor of Concordiensis, Fresh- man-Sophomore debate, and honor student. 1881 HAS RE-UNION DINNER. The class of 1881 had its re-union dinner Monday night at the Mohawk C-olf Club, there being about 20 men and women pres- ent. The members wore the purple and white a·rm bands and indulged in much sing- ing during the dinner. President Charles D. Meneely presided and informal remarks were made by many of those present. A quartet from Everyman's dinner contribut- ed several solos and the class of 1906 visited '8'1 in the course of its lock-step parade. DANCERS STOP WHEN OLD SOL BRINGS DAY. Senior Ball Is Called By Many Best Party of Year. Lots of pretty girls, good music and exuberant life characterized the annual senior ball held in the new gymnasium Mon- day night. The crowd started to arrive shortly before nine o'clock and by 9 :30 the doors were not big enough to permit them to pass without considerable squeezing. The chaperones were Mrs. Charles A. Richmond, Mrs. Stoller, Mrs. Mosher, Mrs. Parsons, and Mrs. Rice. By 10 o'clock the dance was in full sway and eveTybody was enjoying himself, including the older set, \'hich was only watching the \youngsters.\ The orchestra of 12 pieces exceeded ex- pectations. The decorations consisted of garnet and gray streamers, which were hung among the beams of the gymnasium, and a good supply of lowers and blossoms which brightened the whole effect. · The committee also arranged for boxes for the fraternities so that each had its own as- s_embling place. Between 12 and 1 o'clock refreshments were served. They consisted of salads, ice cream and cake and coffee. According to the usual custom the men entertained their guests with some Union songs, while they were waiting to be served. About 3 o'clock the music stopped and one of the most enjoyable parties of the college year came to an end. Special cars waited to take the guests to their homes, a'nd the last one left in the first glow of the dawn. The class of '76 gathered for dinner at Barney's at 6 o'clock Monday night. The members and their wives present numbered a score or more. Prof. F. M. Comstock, of Case School, was the toastmaster. A regttlar meeting of Sigma Xi was held yesterday morning at 9 :00 o'clock.

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. 'fhe Class of 1916. :\ athaniel/\ugustus Finch, Jr., Buffalo; John Flatn, Schenectady; \Valter Franck, Sche- nectady; Everett Edward Garrison, Yon- kers; 1-lo-vvard Glenn, Scotia; Daniel J erorne Keleher, Port Chester; Har- old ~1i11er Levds, Geneva; George Glenn :\1 crcer, Schuyler Lake; Ralph 11erton Mix- ter. \Yarren; l'vfillard Harold 1\1oulds, Sel- kirk : Rayn1ond Arthur N e\vton, Sydney ; H o\varcl Britton Santee, Vv'illian1son; Robert 'fhon1as Scully, Schenectady; Carlton New- c·11 Stnith, Schenectady; Benjan1in Sparagen, \ \' ar\vick; \\~illian1 Sparagen, \Varwick; C'harles \Tan Orden 'Terwi1liger, Albany; Xenophon J). Theocharidcs, ~Iarsovan, 'Tur- key: \\'altC'r Els\\\'Orth \Yynnc, Albany. ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE HEARS DR. RICHMOND .. Dr. Richn1ond was a speaker at the Albany 1\f edical College al un1ni dinner Friday night. During his talk he predicted that the future \vould bring- n1ore rigid requiren1ents for ad- nlission to the college, and a higher standard of scholarship. S. \V. Rosendale, president of the college's board of trustees, presided at the graduation exercises in the afternoon. After presenta- tion by l1ean Ordway, the graduating class \Yas giYen diplornas by I)r. Richmond. i': JAMES Popular James selected by the fc: Taylor ' Arts. H Ph; Beta 1n col Jctive. <:.he Cla~ ing in th sop~cn1o have bee istant lit~ n1an-Sop 1881 'rhe cl ~1onday there be: ent. Tl 'vhite ar: ing duri J). ~Ien( \\¥e-re n1<: quartet ed sever: 'Rl in tt

THE CONCORDIENSIS ll JAMES BARKER TAYLOR VALEDICTORIAN OF 1916. Popular Student Given Honor by Faculty in Thursday Meeting. James Barker Taylor, of Greenville, was selected as valedictorian of the class of 1916 by the faculty in meeting last Thursday. Taylor will take the degree of Bachelor of Arts. He was one of the six n1en to rt\.t-·ive Ph; Beta l(appa keys in the year's e]\=-r.t1on. 1 n college activities, he has been \Vtdely Jctive. He was for four years a nlt'nlbcr of :he Classical and Adelphic Society, hold- ing in the latter the office of treasurer in his sop~cn1ore year. I-iis other in1port3n+ honors have been: literary editor, 1916 G-1rnet, as- istant literary editor of Concordiensis, Fresh- n1an-Sophomore clebate, and honor student. 1881 HAS RE-UNION DINNER. 'fhe class of 1881 had its re-union dinner l~v1onday night at the Mohawk Golf Club, there being about 20 men and \Vomen pres- ent. The members vvore the purple and \vhite arm bands and indulged in n1uch sing-- ing during the dinner. President Charles J). ~Ieneely presided and infonnal re1narks \\¥e-re n1ade by many of those present. 1\ quartet from Everyman ·s dinner contribut- ed several solos and the class of 190G visited 'R 1 in the course of its lock-ste-p parade. DANCERS STOP WHEN OLD SOL BRINGS DAY~ Senior Ball Is Called By Many Best Party of Year. Lots of pretty girls, good music and exuberant life characterized the annual senior ball held in the new gyn1nasium lVlon- day night. The crowd started to arrive shortly before nine o'clock and by 9 :30 the doors were not big enough to pern1i t then1 to pass without considerable squeezing. ~rhe chaperones were Mrs. Charles A. Richmond, Mrs. Stoller, 1\frs. 1losher, Mrs. Parsons, and Mrs. Rice. By 10 o'clock the dance was in full sway and everybody was enjoying himself, including the older set, vvhich was only watching the \youngsters.'' 1~he orchestra of 12 pieces exceeded ex- pectations. The decorations consisted of garnet and gray streamers, which vvere hung an1ong the beams of the gyn1nasi utn, and a good supply of lovvers and blossoms \\·hich Lrigh tened the whole effect. 1'he con11nittee also arranged for boxes for the fraternities so that each had its O\vn as- sen1bling place. Betvveen 12 and 1 o'clock refreshn1ents \vere served. The,~ consisted of salads, ice crean1 and cake and coffee. ... A.ccording to the usual custon1 the n1en entertained their guests \vitb son1e Cnion songs, while they \vere \Vaiting to be served. About 3 o'clock the music stopped and one of the most enjoyable parties of the college year catne to an end. Special cars \vaited to take the guests to their hon1es. and the last one left in the first glo\V of the da\vn. 1'he class of '76 gathered for dinner at\ Barney's at G o'clock ~1onday nig-ht. The n1etnbers and their \ViYes present numbered a score or n1ore. Prof. F. :\1. Con1stock, of Case School. vvas the toasttnaster. A reg-ular n1ee-ting of Sign1a Xi \Vas held yesterday tnorning· at !J :00 o'clock.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ''I HAVE KEP'T THE FAITH\ IS BACCALAUREATE TEXT. Dr. Richmond Preaches to Seniors in Presby- terian Church. HI have kept the faith\ was the text of the baccalaureate sermon delivered Sunday night by Dr. Richmond in the First Presbyterian Church. Dr. Richmond commented on Paul's unswerving fidelity, and emphasized the fact that under all circumstances this disciple had always kept the faith. The presi- dent went on to show how faith was an es- sential to hutnan life, stating that one of the great differences between man and beast was that the man had faith while the beast did not. He spoke of the nation that breaks its word. \Such a nation may for a motnent seem stronger, but in the end it is bound to perish miserably, scorned and despised of all men. To cold material efficiency Dr. Richmond asc~ribes a destructive influence. The conclusion of his sermon was a charge to the graduating class in which he reminded its members that they had a trust to keep with their God, their country and their col- lege. His final exhortation was that they be \men true to their word, who stand by their principles, and who keep the faith.\ The services began at '( :30 o'clock when the procession of the seniors and the faculty formed outside of the church. Class Marshal Paul A. Hauenstein led his class mates, dressed in their. caps and gowns, into the place of worship, and the faculty followed. The line of men filed slowly to the front of the church and took the alloted places. There was an annual n1eeting of the Gen- eral Alumni Associatipn in the Engineer- ing building yesterday morning. An alumni trustee was elected. CLASS OF EI'GHTY-FOUR IS HAVING ANNUAL RE-UNION. Rivaling '8'6 As Livest Class at· the· Com- mence·m.ent. It is evident that the eighties were good years in which to grow classes, for side by side with the vociferous '86 comes '84 march- ing back to re-union, loudly proclaiming that its younger rival-so-called the livest class of the commencement-is really nothing at all. ~.84's strongest point in its favor in this ·rivalry is the fact that it has had an annual re-union every year since it was graduated, there 'by establishing what is, as far as we can ascertain, a world's record. ' The class has been well on the move ever since it came to town. Professor and Mrs. Stoller were at home to its members on Monday afternoon, after which adjournment was made to the chapel to unite with '86 in the '\movies.\ Its banquet was held last night in the Edison. The members of the class in this city are Judge Daniel N aylon, J r., Dr. Heatly, the Rev. W. N. P. Dailey, its secretary, Dr. Mynderse, Prof. J .H. Stoller of the college, Irving P. Estcourt, Dr. McEncroe, Harry Phillips, Frank H. Mountain and John H. Veede,r. Other members well known in Schenectady are George F. Allison, co- founder with Foote, of '85, of the Allison- Foote prize, Judge Beekman of Schoharie County, Dr. MacFarlane and .A.ttorney Tem- pleton~ of Albany, Dean Fisher of the Uni- versity of Pennsylvania, and Dr. Young of Hagaman. The Rev. Dr. Griffs and the Rev. Dr. George Alexander, having been \doc- tored\ in 1884, are honorary members of the class. The Rev. Dr. E. C. Lawrence, the only teacher of the class still residing here, has also been initiated into the enthu·- siasm of this celebrated class. The board of governors met yesterday morning at ten o'clock. GROV Large The held in of the 1 ard A. tom ha 'vho ha fairs t Union, interes1 It w: scene. B. Han M. Jac< ered b, tion, d con1me class o the lar: sloping theater ard E. The front o n1arche n1arsha Live C One week E chemic from tl: planne~ charac1 lie, and as the ies of r the fea

THE CONCORDIENSIS~ 13 GROVE AND CLASS DAY EXERCISES IN GARDE.N. Large Crowd Gathers in Amphitheate'r Despite Bad Weather. The Grove and class day exercise-s were held in the garden Monday afternoon in spite of the threatening weather. President How- ard A. Glenn made the only address, a cu~­ tom handed down by time. The president, 'vho has been a leader in undergraduate af- fairs throughout his four years' stay at Union, bore himself with dignity, and spoke interestingly, and seriously. It was for others to add jollity to the scene. The class history, read by Kenneth B. Hanson and the class prophecy, by Avrom M. Jacobs, amused. The pipe oration, deliv- ered by Horace Zimmer and the Ivy ora- tion, delivered by Lee C. Fletcher, were con1mendable efforts oratorically, while the class oration, by Eugene J. Hummer, held the large audience, scattered about on the sloping grounds banking the little amphi- theater. The class poem was read by Rich- ard E. Taylo~ and caught the fancy of all. The graduating class had assembled in front of the chapel, in caps and gowns, and n1arched to the garden iti a body, the class n1arshal, Paul A. Hauenstein, at their head. '.86 ENTERTAINS~ Live Class Give.s Historical Entertainment in Chemical Laboratory. One of the features of the Commencement week exercises was the '86 meeting at the chemical laboratory, which drew heavily from the ranks of the alumni, the class having planned a unique entertainn1ent, historical in character. The meeting was open to the pub- lic, and members of the student body as well as the old grads, attended. Views and stor- ies of life at the college thirty years ago were the features. PROF. GEORGE J. LYON RESIGNS FROM FACULTY. --- Will Devote His Time To Increasing Con- sulting Practice. Prof. George J. Lyon has resigned as as- sistant professor of Civil Engineering, and will devote his entire time to increasing his consulting practice. This work will be car·- ried on in connection with a group of as- sociated engineers having offices in New York, Washington, Pittsburgh, Chicago, Lincoln, Denver, Salt Lake City, and San Francisco. Prof. Lyon will continue to n1ake his residence in Schenectady. Prof. Lyon is considered an expert in the 111atter of stream flow and the measure of discharge. He he has appeared as engineer- ing expert in these matters before the higher courts of several states. He has published several works on stream flow measurements and has contributed articles to a number of important technical journals. Before be- coming a member of the Union faculty, Prof. Lyon organized a highly successful department of Civil Engineering at Colorado College, Colorado Springs. At about the san1e time, he served as Deputy State Eng- ineer of Colorado. He is a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers and of the American Institute of Mining Engineers. Professor Lyon is highly popular among the students on the hill, and news of his resignation from the faculty is received with regret. 1851 was the oldest class represented in the year's Commencement. William Graham. LL. D., of Dubuque, Ia., is its representative and, on account of this honor, was chosen as grand marshall and headed the alumni cos- tume parade. He was similarly honored at Commencement five years ago. Mr. Graham is one of the most prominent attorneys of the West.

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. BASEBALL SEASON HAS BEEN VERY SUCCESSFUL. Captain Hummer and Jenkins, Sterling Pitchers, End Career. In the very first games of the season the Gatrnet team lost to Columbia and to Princeton, but since then Hobart, Williams, N. Y. U.l. Hamilton, St. Johns, Wesleyan, and Rutgers have yielded the laurels of vic- tory to our nine. Chiefly so that the alumni may get an idea of how baseball has pro- gressed this year, the last four games, those with Wesleyan, Rutgers, Hamilton and R. P. I., will be summarized. Captain Gene Hummer has been the hero of so many contests that the 7-1 victory over Wesleyan on Friday, May 26, seemed quite a usual occur·rence. The fact is that he pitched a beautiful game from start to finish. Fourteen men were fanned and none re- ceived a complimentary to first, whereas the opposing twirlers, DuBois and Seehalzer, struck out but six and walked four. From Gene but one hit was secured; from the visiting artists eight were taken. The best batting of the day was done by Beyrl, Greene, and May, each of whom banged out two- baggers. Rutgers sent a nine here on May 27 which had a good record behind it; this same ag- gregation went away still with its good record for Union had won only by a 3-1 score. Jenks was there with his speed and as his record of 14 \back to your seats,\ and 3 passes indicates ·he was the day's idol. Waterfield's work for Rutgers, however, made the entire nine innings close and inter- esting. Again Bill May came across with his drives. Particularly was this a gala day for him, since he crossed the plate twice himself and brought down two safeties out of three chances at bat. The Hamilton boys did tie us in football Captain Gene Hummer. this year it is true, but on Decoration Day the Clinton nine received its second defeat at our hands. Along with a 71 to 46 track victory, Gene Hummer was able to put over an 8-0 game on the diamond. On account of the late start necessitated by the bad weather, 7' inn1ngs was the limit. Not until the fifth inning did any man get his feet on home plate, but at this time the fun really began. After two runs had been made and \vhen three men were holding down the three h; sphere runs an~ the hist At th is awai1 fidence. departn ing of should Blue an It tain H1 'fhis w of thes· Garnet pair of truly s1 ander] The the M< the ~fo Chapm 1913 Monda sober c

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 three hags, May stepped up, clouted the sphere so hard that he brought in three runs and hi1nself made the first four basser in the history of Alexander Feld. At the tin1e of going to press, the squad is awaiting the Columbia contest with con- fidence. They have advanced notably in all departn1ents of the game since the last meet- ing of the two teams, and feel that they should prove themselves masters of the Blue and White. \Jenks.\ It could not be learned whether Cap- tain Hutnmer or Carl Jenkins would pitch. 'fhis will be the last opportunity for either of these stirling slabmen to play unde1r the Garnet. Few colleges can boast of a better pair of hurlers, and the students will be truly sorry to see them come out on Alex- ander Field for the last time. The class of 1906 held a lively dinner at the Mohawk Club Monday night. Arnold the ~fohawk Club Monday night. Arnold G. Chapman is president of the class. 1913 held a reunion dinner in Glenn's Monday night, and entertained the n1ore sober diners with Union and general songs. STERNFELD, CHAPMAN AND LEONG WINNERS rake Firsts, Respe·ctively, in Exte·mporan- eous Debate, Junior and Sophomore Oratoricals. An appreciative audience filled the lower floor of the chapel Saturday night on the oc- casion of the prize oratory and extempor- aneous debating. The winners in the differ- ent contests were popular choices. They were as follows: Sophomore oratory, Ko Gyee Leong, first; Clyde A. Heatly, second; Junior oratory, David F. Chapman, first, Hugh J. Williams, second ; Extern poraneous speaking, Milton H. Sternfeld '16, first; Jacob M. Frankel, '1 'I, second. rrhe prize speakers and their subjects were as follows: SOPHOMORES 1. American Loyalty Mathias Philip Poersch, Schenectady 2. Predominating Materialism Ko Gyee Leong, Rangoon, Burma, India 3. The Value of the Boss in Politics Spencer Brownell Eddy, Saratoga Springs 4. Our Monroe Doctrine Clyde Alexander Heatly, Schenectady Announcement of the Question for Extem- poraneous Speaking. JUNIORS. 1. The Future American Hugh J. Williams, Elmhurst, Penna. 2·. Patriotism, N ationalisn1, and Peace Joseph Edward Haubner, Schenectady 3. A Phase of Preparedness David Ferdinand Chapman, Broadalbin 4. The Crucible of God John Hider Tregurtha, Schenectady The board of trustees held a special meet- ing in President Richmond's office yester- day morning.

16 THE CONCORDIENS:IS. THE CONCORD lEN SIS A Literary and News Weekly Publioshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Ralph Knight '17 ---------- PoSi Upsilon House MANAGING EDITOR. Fawcett W. Porter '17 ----------- Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR. William C. Loughlin '17, Phi Gamma Delta House LITERARY EDITOR David F. Chapman '17 --------- Delta Phi House ASST. LITERARY EDITOR Rudolph W. Schwartz '17 ---- 37 Glenwood Blvd ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. G. Carey, Jr., '18 E. L. Newell '18 F. G. Bascom '18 S W. Talbot '18 H. L. Cook '18 REPORTORIAL STAFF·. H. H.' Newton '19 Adam Bailey '19 G. D. Rosenthal '19 W. R. Barnett '19 C A. Brind, Jr., '19 A. B. Dougal '19 E. J. Griswold '19 K. H. Gorham '19 V. H. Scales '19 Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. £bitnrittls We suppose that, with this issue of SAP Concordiensis, we have the alumni VESSELS as nearly under our thumb as at any time during the year. You \old men\ who chance to read this as it strikes the campus more or less warm off the press will be re-living the old college days. Youth will be in your veins. When, thus seeped in the spirit ()£ active Union life, you read that Concordy asks a favor of you, a responsive chord should sound somewhere-unless you are utterly hope- 1e ss, entirely out of tune with Auld Lang Syne. Accordingly, we will ~epeat a plea which we made to you s.otne time ago. Your noses were on the grindstones then, and most of you didn't hear us for the noise. We pause to say that we are ~eartily glad to see you. You .gymbolize for us the trunk and branches of the Union tree. We are the buds. You are Union, and w'hen you come to the campus you instill new life in us-you are mak~ ing us open in the spring. We are proud when we greet you because we think the college as it is today is something to he proud of; we take pride in showing you how well we budoS are com- ing out under the sturdy sap which you have sent up to us. As for the favor we would ask-. we first tell you with no little elation that without slipping vve have taken the final step into our promised land-the land of the Great Change. You are reading the Concordy for the last time as an antique, once-a-week book. On Registration Day next fall, the new Concordy, a four-column newspaper will burst out, and continue coming \\ ,- r \\' • ~ out three time.g a week during the college year, barring exatninations and sudden death. The ·new -pap:er wil lcontain four pages and, once in two weeks;· a p·urely literary supplement. We are going to make . the new Concordy-as far as it is our powe.r to do so-as wide-awake a p~blication: as you will find in any small col- lege in the country. In the first place, you will want t.o subscribe for New Concordy-every one of you. Next winter, when your nose ioS back on the grind- stone, you will find there will be three bright spots in th~ humdrum week if you can momen- tarily withdraw it from the stone and thrust it into Concordy's pages. You will find Concordy an antidote for old age, because between its lines you will: be seeing yourself back under the old elms doing the self-same thingoS you are reading about. r t will be grand, good tonic for you. Are you going to take it, and keep young, or leave i~ and be a grey-haired grottch? You will take it, but that is not all we ask. We undergraduates want to feel next year that you alumni down in the trunk and branches are whole-souledly interested in what we are doing up above. Very probably you watched us closely during .the past year, but we never knew it, save for a few scattered words that filtered up to us at rare intervaloS. We want you to talk to us, all of you. And the only way you can do it is through the columns of Conc.ordy. We :wa11t you to tell us about yourself and how you are getting along down below. We want you to talk over college affairs with uoS, and help us unravel them when they become knotty. We want to be scolded when .,Ne need it, and praised when we deserve it. We want y·ou to be nearer to us than down in New York or out in St. Louis. Won't you please take Concordy home with you and read it? And then won't you please use it as a 1negaphone and have a chat with UoS across the state? The trunk separated. J ganism. Ne ceased runn: vessels are c The Conct v MORE ti~ ABOUT tc \YES.\ p« g The letter ~ proposition. To the Edit 1 have re entitled \Y~ 25, 1916. I and cannot you can tak ter. I sup stand becat agreed witl other subje I am firr into effect unfortunate . presstons o briefly som Excludin: frotn mem tnean the 1 our team c; case of Y other instit ly from tl stance: I \ ball game i were no S( rived late the batteri ting near replied, \I It is we as well, dr in the pen thing is t some of v dental an< Why, th age she Cc fessional ~ lack spirit true, howe: the profe:

THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 The trunk ·of a tree and its buds are widely separated. Both are vital parts of the whole or- ganism. Neither would be any good if the sap ceased running between them, and when the sap vessels are cut the tree dies. The Concordy reminds us .of the.se sap vessels. We received the following communica- MORE tion which relates to our recent edi- ,. ABOUT torial on the advisability of limiting \YES.\ participation in our athletics to under- graduate st1.1dents in Union College. The letter states well the arguments against the proposition. We append it in full: To the Editor of the Concordiensis: 1 have read with gravest concern the editorial entitled \Yes\ in the Concordien-sis dated May 25, 1916. I have given the subject much thought and cannot \for the life of me\ understand how you can take the stand that you have in this mat- ter. I suppose it is harder for me to under- stand because I have invariably (or nearly so) agreed with the atitude of the \Concordy\ on other subjects in the past. I am finnly convinced, however, that carrying into effect the motion in question would be most unfortunate. Ina.gmuch as you have invited ex- pressions of opinion in your columns, I will give briefly some of the reasons f·or my conviction. Excluding student-s of the Albany departments frotn membership on the Union teams would tnean the loss of the services of men to which our team are in every sense entitled. Take the case of Yale, Harvard, Univ. of Penn'a., and other institutions. Do not their teams draw free- ly from their professional school-s? As an in- stance: I was present at he Columbia-Union base- ball game in New York several weeks ago. There were no score cards for the game and as I ar- rived late I did not hear the umpire announce the batteries. I asked a Columbia student sit- ting near who waoS pitching for Columbia. He replied, \Beck a medical college student.\ . It is well known that New York University, as well, draws freely from its professi·onal school in the personnel of its athletic teams. The same thing is true of the University of Pittsburgh, -some of whose best athletes are students of its dental and medical schools. Why, then, should not Union gain what advan- age she can, in an athletic sense, from her pro- fessional schools? You state that these schools lack spirit. This ioS true enough. ts it not also true, however, to a greater or a lesser degree, of the professional schools of all universities? Columbia men have complained of this satne con- dition to me and I know it is true of New York Universtiy. Further, if you wish to foster true univeroSity spirit, as I believe you do, from var- ious articles which have appeared in the \Con- cordy\ fr.om tim,e to time, do you consider it a proper step to discriminate against and exclude fro,m membership on the Union teams students of the Albany departments? Frankly, if I were a student at -one of the Albany schools desirous ~ of playing on a Union team and discriminated against in that manner I would feel wronged and would lack what university spirit I might other- wise have. While comparatively few in number, some of our best athletes have been drawn from the Al- bany departments. When I was at Union sev- eral of our football players and our best baseball pitcher came from these schools. You -state that \one of the colleges with whom we are glad to have athletic relationship is going to respectively suggest that we play only men against them who belong to Union College.\ Let me state, at the outset, that I think I can tell you, with one guess, the name of this college. It is not a large one,-oh, no, because they all draw athletes from their professional -schools then1- se1ves, as I have shown. Let me say further that this college would not think of questioning Columbia's or Yale's right to play students from their professional -schools, but would, without doubt, eagerly accept games vdth these institutions. ·One step further: If we relinquish our rights in this matter to satisfy a rival college, which unfortunately has no profes-sional schools to draw from, we wit handicap our teams to just that ex- tent and perhaps, in spite of splendid coaching, keep them always or for a long time, at least, in that rival college's class. We can hardly expect ·or hope to compete, on anything like equal terms, with the larger, stronger colleges in football. In baseball, how- ever, it ioS different; we can expect very good baseball teatns and can look forward, with rea- son, I think, to playing Harvard, Yale and all the other larger colleges, in due time, as do Williatns and Amherst and other small colleges, if we leave Fred Dawson unhampered in the manner which you advocate. (I might add, parenthetic- ally, that the college above mentioned will then be glad enough to have athletic relations with Union.) I do not consider that playing the larger and stronger college tean1s should be the height of

: ! I I l i : I ' . 18 THE CONCORDIENSIS. our ambition, but I do believe that athletic rela- tions with such colleges would make Union bet- ter known and add prestige to it. Such relations will certainly not obtain without strong teams. In other words, we have begun well this year, by playing baseball with Columbia and Prince- ton. Disastrous defeats by these teams next year, owing to lack of proper material, or for any other reason, would probably result in our being dropped from their schedules thereafter. Would it not be better to continue playing these tea1ns and strengthen our schedules further rather than to gratify the unreasonable desire of a rival and perhaps thereby remain in its class? I have always admired most heartily Union's firm stand for purity in athletics and would be one of the first to protest against any lessening of this standard. I do, however, object to most senseless and useless handicapping of our teams in the manner proposed in your editorial. I would favor, on the other hand, giving Fred Dawson a free hand, in every legitimate man- ner, for promoting the athletic welfare of \Old Union.\ Next year we will not have Carl Jenkins or Eugene Hummer pitching for \Old Union\ and it is pos.gible that 've would be very glad to have a \Dan\ O'Keefe. There are two ways open jn this case: One to achieve such success as is possible under needless' restriction; the other, to make the mo.gt of our opportunities. I believe that the vast majority of Union alumni favor the latter course. Respectfully yours, UNION 1900. We have neither time nor space in which to an- swer the writer, argument for argument, but we will state a few general facts which should reply to it in a general way:: The thinking students in the college want the Albany department excluded because they believe they cannot honorably benefit by the services of 1nen with whom there i-s such a slender bond of connection. It is an absolute fact that members of other colleges with whotn we play are grun1b1- ing about the situation. We cannot bring into comparison such colleges as Columbia and N. Y. U. because the case is en- tirely different. The writer tnust admit that it makes considerable difference whether the pro- fcs'Sional schools and colleges in question are in the satne city or in different ones. As we said in our editorial, there is no univer- sity spirit. There is absolutely no good in at- tempting to foster such a spirit for the simple reason that it is an hnpossibilty. A man in Union College cannot shake hands with a man in the Albany Law School. Their arms aren't long enough. Those who object to this tentative ruling have stated that they would be glad to see it go into effect as far as graduate students are con- cerned. We wonder if they fail to see that the day i>S coming when the Albany departments will be graduate schools? In our opinion, President Richm-ond is not laboring to create a university spirit, but rather to raise the requirements of the university in all its departments .. We 1nay go on with our athletics from now until Dootnsday without a formal word being spoken against the Albany department-s. BUT PEO- PLE ARE MUMBLING ABOUT IT BEHIND OUR BACKS RIGHT NOW. There is no hedging that fact. Might we not better get walloped and dropped flat by Columbia, than have pe·ople slinging mud at our backs? There is a play called, \Within the Law.\ We are just within the law, and that is all. '•EVERYBODY'S\ TEA IS VERY SUCCESSFUL FUNCTION. I-Ield In Engineering Building-Dancing Enjoyed. The \Everybody's\ tea in the general en- gineering building, held for the first time this year, was a great success and added much to the enjoyment of the festive hours following class day. Not only many class day guests who were not attending the fraternity house teas, but almost everyone who was on the campus during the after- noon took advantage of the hospitality of the \Everybody's\ committee and attended the pleasant tea. The table was placed in the large hall and an orchestra played for dancing in the upper hall. The committee in charge of the tea included Mrs. S. P. Mc- Clellan, of T~roy, chairman; Mrs. Vern on Travis, Mrs. Arnold Chaptnan, of Albany; Mrs. Hodgson, of Glens Falls; Mrs. D. R. Finley, Mrs. Berry, Mrs. Holcomb, Mrs. G. 11. Clowe, Mrs. Charles N. Waldron and l\1 rs. Charles Male. + ~· STUD ~+ ~+ .: .. + + + The last held on M tom the \] ron's word Scoby, whc past year, In sumn season so dwelt on ] fair mann' been recei, 3-1 show : leyan and Wally C to report team. Ne to ·develor: In Phir for track. not have\' n1ight ha' I-Iamilton: speak of A very Union re: the follow Girling fo Resolve: limited t4 class be 1 mark. Galbrai . . 1z1ng an year. It: tion will bowling ~ sports. The fin ment bet ett were Jack Ga1 one day 1

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 19 ••••••••••••••••••• + + ~· STUDENT MEETING, MAY 29. +t• + + +++++++++++++++++++ The last Student Meeting of the year was held on Monday, May 29.. As is the cus- tom the \potential\ {to use Charlie W aid- ron's word) senior president, that is, Hal Scoby, who has been junior president for the past year, presided. In summarizing the events of the baseball season so far, the one thing which Gene dwelt on particularly was the friendly and fair manner in which visiting teams have been received by the student body. 7-1 and 3-1 show respectively the fate of the Wes- leyan and Rutgers players on May 26 and 27. Wally Girling, as luck would have it, had to report a defeat by the Rutgers tennis team. Next year every effort will be n1ade to ·develop a greater interest in tennis. In Phil's absence, John Taylor reported for track. It was a shame that he could not have waited till the next day, so that he n1ight have reported the 71-4:6 victory over I-Iamilton, but, as it was was, he had to speak of Colgate's successes. A very important change of feeling at Union resulted finally in the adoption of the following resolution presented by Wally Girling for the Tel}race Council : Resolved, That the fall cane rush be limited to one (1) minute and that each class be placed 100 feet from the center mark. Galbraith spoke of the prospect of organ- izing an excellent bowling team here next year. It is hoped sincerely that this sugges- tion will materialize and that next year bowling shall be added to our list of 1ninor sports. The finals in the Slazenger Tennis Tourna- ment between Wally Girling and Guy Beck- ett were announced for the next day by Jack Garrison. If the meeting had been one day later it would have been announced that the proud possessor of the racket was Wally. +++++++++++++++++++ + + THE FIDDLE. By \Q.\ + + + +++++++++++++++++++ There's a crazy fiddle whining at the door, I don't know what it wants, but I can guess. It says, \Come out, you slave-winter's o'er, So drop your brushes. Come see Earth's new dress. \You've tried to paint that drapery all day long, Your model's tired and you are cross yourself, So come outdoors. Earth's jigging a new song And showing her slim ankles-she's no elf. \But she has ankles that are small and fine And her new gown is orocus-gilded too, Big daffodils are in her hair and shine Into her eyes. Cart-loads of gold for you. \If you can paint her,\ shouted the violin. That was the challenge! Out I go like mad · ··r· is an I tali an fiddler, tin In hand to get five hundred dollars-glad. Enough, however, with the nickle I Dropped in his cup. Bow-legged and withered he Waver up the street with laugh and sigh** Just see that n1odel, Earth, he brrought to me! Fitful deluges of rain during the festive days have drenched more than one alumnus, 'but not cooled him off.

20 THE CO·NCORDIENSIS. SLAZEN·GER TOURNAMENT WON BY WALLY GIRLING. Though. Weather Was Poor, Play was Brilliant. On Decoration Day, May 30th, the final round of the Slazenger tennis tournament \Wally\ Girling. \Vas played on the college courts, resulting in Guy Beckett's defeat at the hand of Wally Girling in two out of three sets. The score was 8-6, 2-6, 6-3. '!'hough a drizzling rain fell at inte,rvals during the match, both contestants played brilliantly, furnishing probably the best tennis seen on· the campus this season. The first set was a see-saw affair, Girling finally breaking through for the odd game after the score had worked up to 6-all. Beckett play- ed his best game in the second set and had little trouble in winning. In the final, how- eve,r there was a sudden change in forn1, Girling being master of the situation at all times and defeating his opponent by 6-3. RUTGERS WINS AT TENNIS. Atones for Base:ball Defeat by Drubbing Union Team. At the same time the Union baseball team was winning from the Rutgers nine the ten- nis tean1 from the latter college was giving the Garnet a rub in the other direction. ,.rhe visitors had the fastest set of perform- ers that the Schenectady players have yet had to face, and succeeded in taking four points out of the six, although only after a hard struggle. Brown and Rosenthal al- n1ost tied the match when with two points to the credit of both sides they carried the third set to a 9-11 score. The summary: Singles-Girling of Union vs. Childs of R.utgers, 6-3, 6-3. Lee of Rutgers vs. Beck- et.t of Union, 6-3, 4-6, 6--2. Persons of Union vs. Packard of Rutgers, 2-6, 6-2, 6-4. Doubles-Lee and Childs of Rutgers vs. Girling and Beckett of Union, 6-2, 6-2. Packard and Jones of Rutgers vs. Rosenthal and Brown of Union, 6-4, 0-6, 11-9. I TRl Dr. Ri< A lonl • of Unior office M Follov announc had rep1 tion, all ma1n1ng fiscal ye The p appointr Prof. of Illinc . engtneet Lyon,V\ tic e. Perrir ioll Col and poli Irvin~ Columb: Paris, it frey Atl Karl instruct Clifford T. K. Gradua1 W. B . . gtneenr signed. . \ 1 EVER~ ~ A nt dinners per\ ov~ 1\\his we: formal the pre

THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 TRUSTEES HOLD MEETING. Dr. Richmond Announces Many New Faculty Appointments. A long session of the board of trustees of Union College was held at the president's office Monday night, beginning at 8 o'clock. Following the session, Dr. Richmond announced that Treasurer Frank M. Bailey had reported an excellent financial condi- tion, all bills being paid and a surplus re- maining in the treasury at the close of the fiscal year. The president announced the following appointments to the faculty: Prof. Allen Boyer McDoniel, University of Illinois, to be assitant professor of civil engineering, succeeding Prof. George J. Lyon, who will devote hi stime to his prac- tice. Perrin Galpin, Yale University and Bal- ioll College, Oxford, instructor in history and political science. Irving Brown, University of Wisconsin, Columbia University, and the Sorbonne, Paris, instructor in French, to succeed Geof- frey Atkinson, resigned. Karl Malamet, John Hopkins University, instructor in French and German, to succeed Clifford S. Parker, resigned. T. K. Whipple, Princeton University and Graduate School, instructor in English. W. B. Kirke, instructor in electrical en- gineering, to succeed Everett S. Lee, re- signed. . \ 1 EVERYMAN'S SUPPER IS IM- ~ PORTANT EVENT OF WEEK. A number of the reunion classes held dinners at night, but the \Everyman's Sup- per\ overshadowed these in general interest. 1\'his was one of the most democratic and in- formal gatheTings of the week. Not even the presiding officer was designated before the dinner, and the speakers were \as the spir,it moves,\ yet the supper was an enjoy-· able, brisk affair, at which wit and serious thought intermingled, and joviality pre- dominated. Practically every alumnus not attending a class reunion dinner dTifted to the Mohawk Golf Club about 6 o'clock, and found a seat at the supper table there. SWEEPING CHANGES TO BE MADE IN CONCORDY. Will Be a Thrice-a-Week Newspaper Next Year. GARNET ELECTIONS HELD. Cook Made Editor, Cameron Is Business Manager-Kennedy Made Assistant Manager of Concordiensis. At the last regular meeting of the publica- tion board in the Press Club rooms on Mon- day, it was definitely decided to make sweep- ing changes in The Concordiensis next year. The form of the paper will be changed to a four-column newspaper sheet of four pages. Once in two weeks there will be a two-page literary supplement added. The new Con- cordy will be published three times a week, appearing on Monday, Thursday and Fri- day nights. In taking this step, the board is placing The Concordy in a position to vie with the best small college publications in the country. The election of editor-in-chief of the 1918 Ga~rnet, resulted in the choosing of Harold L. Cook, of Auburn, N. Y., Edward M. Cameron, of Albany, was elected manager of the next year Garnet. Catneron is a meln- ber of Delta Phi, and Cook of Psi Upsilon. As assistant business manager of the 1916-17 Concordiensis, the board selected William M. l(ennedy, Jr., of New York City. Kennedy is a member of Delta Upsilon.

.-. f . I ! 22 THE CONCORDIENSIS. DR. E. C. LAWRENCE, UNION '69, DIES SUNDAY Dr. Egbeirt Charles Lawrence, one of the best known ministers in the city, died Sun- day morning at his home, No. 3-6 University Place, following a heart attack. Dr. Law- rence had been about as usual until the hour of his death, and the end was a shock to his family and friends. His passing removes a 1nan beloved by everyone who knew him. Gentle, kindly and courteous, Dr. Lawrence -was· remembered by those who met him even casually. To know him was a privilege, cherished by scores of Schenectadians. Dr. Lawrence led a life of unusual activ- ity. He was born in Borodino, in Onon- daga County, the son of' Silas Rensselaer and Lucinda Lawrence. He prepared for college at Owego Academy ; graduated at Union, A. B., 186'9, with the Warner prize cup for:. best scholarship, and the Latin salutatory, the honor for class leadership. He received the degree of A. M. from his Alma Mater in 1872. REV. CHARLES OTIS THATCHER '64. (Written for Concordy by late Dr. Lawrence just before his death.) To the Editor: Charles Otis Thatcher was born in Amster- dam, N. Y., June 18, 1842. He graduated from Union College in the class of 1864; and from Princeton Theological Seminary in the clasrS of 1867.. He was ordained an evangelist by the Presbytery of Troy September 18, 1867. And since that date Mr. Thatcher has had pastoral charges of churches as follows: Troy, N. Y.; Tioga, Pa.; Union, N. Y.; Washington and Owatonna, Minn.; Chittenango, Knoxboro, Whitesboro,, Morristown, Cranberry Lake and Batchellerville, N. Y. At the latter place on December 30, 1915, he died after three days' ill- nestS. A sharp attack of pneumonia proved fatal. The funeral service was held in his church Sun- day afternoon. Rev. George R. Fraser of North- ville, preached the sermon. The burial was on Monday, January 3, 1916, at 5:00 P. M. in Vale Cemetery of this city, the officiating clergymen being Drs. McEwan of Amsterdam, and Law- renee of Schenectady. Mr. Thatcher is survived by a wife and daughter. This fai~thful mirLister .of the gospel and I were old friends long devoted- to each other, rSO that I was not surprised that he left a written re- quest for me to perform the rites of sepulture by taking the committal services. at the grave. I knew him well and loved him much. For sev- eral years we were neighbors in the Utica Pres- bytery. He was a genial, big-hearted fellow, jov- ial, helpful, unselfish, winning convertrS for Christ and at the same time attaching friends to him- self in the bonds of an eternal friendship. He spent a summer vacation with me in my West- hampton parish at Quiaque, Long Island. My catboat furnished amusement and recreation. Thatcher and I learned how to sail it. We took turns in being captain. And here are two inci- dents fast and loose from the log-book. FAST. One day he was captain and I was the rna te or crew ready to do his bidding. And we sailed away over the Quantuck Bay to the ocean beach. As we approached the dock, a long narrow pier running out from the landing to deep water, the captain ordered me to go ashore and make fast the ship. So like an obedient sailor I seized tbe painter, and as he rounded to, I leaped on the dock as though I had been shot out of a catapult instead of stepping lively from an innocent cat- boat. \Make fast the oShip,\ the captain vainly shouted. Alas I that innocent catboat! It was no respecter of persons. At least it had no re- spect for clerical orders or canonical dignities., She was capable of more tricks than a sophomore could invent for freshmen. \Make fast the rShip\ the captain shouted, as he sailed away faster and faster than a trolley car at full speed. We were going as such a rate that I could neither stop myself nor make the fast boat fast. And the swift upshot of it was, that in one instant I lost hold of that painter., lost my footing, loot n1y balance to say nothing of my temper, and plunged headlong into the water on the other side of the dock, while the captain and the flying \Jeanie\ sailed \fast away over the bay with a spanking breeze filling her sails. After my duck- ing as I scrambled back onto the dock I pre- sume to say that the kindly thought that I had of that naughty nautical captain was that he ought to be spanked by an oar-blade or some- thing more .gore and painfully severe than to be patted, as it were, on the back by the spanking breeze of a fair wind. Another Thatcher v united strc the helm ' as an obe< took hold hands and horizontal thing for water. Al the tiller a He came jolly as a as a fine acted as ii whirled ar to sea she quite sure Thatcher 1 laughing ~ efforts pu1 ing how t after such Thatcher 1 the dry-as has embar called hin dead who for the ll \I will stt uphold th and finish '\When th: The riven For I will And sanc1 LAMBD The Union c~ the New 9 o'cloc~ Alpha ar as Rho 2 ed at U dinner v function gatherin:

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 23 LO:OSE. Another day I was the captain and my friend Thatcher :was the bold and sturdy mate. By our united stren~th we hoisted sail. Then I took the helm and ordered the mate to cast off. So as an obediept sailor he stood on the dock and took hold ot the edge of the boat with both hands and shoved her off until his body was horizontal and then of couroSe the only possible thing for him to do was to fall flat into the water. All this happened in a jiffy. I dropped the tiller and sprang to help him clamber aboard. He came up dripping, blowing, sputtering, but jolly as a porpoise and considered the mishap as a fine piece of fun. Meanwhile that catboat acted as if possessed by the old-cat herself She whirled around like a skittitSh colt and drifted out to sea she did with a laugh-a horse laugh. I am quite sure T heard a laugh. It may have been Thatcher but I think it wa~ that rude old catboat laughing at him or perhaps laughing at the crude efforts put forth by the two landlubbers in learn- ing how to 'Sail. It may safely be assumed that after such a wet and frisky experience Brother Thatcher could never be accuoSed of belonging to the dry-as-dust order of preachers. And now he has embarked upon the last voyage, for Jesus has called him to his long home. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord! And blessed be God for the precious promise'S of his Holy Word! \I will strengthen thee. I will help thee. I will uphold thee.\ And blessed be Jesus the author and finisher of Brother Thatcher's faith. '\When through the deep waters I call thee to go The rivers of sorrow shall not overflow; For I will be with thee, thy trials to blestS And sanctify to thee th~ deepest distress.\ E. C. LAWRENCE '69. LAMBDA CHI ALPHA DINES AT VENDOME. The Lambda Chi Alpha f,raternity of Union College held its first annual dinner at the New Vendome hotel Saturday night at 9 o'clock. The chapters of Lambda Chi Alpha are known as Zetas and that at Union as Rho Zeta. The organization was install- ed at Union College June 5, 1915, so this dinner was in the nature of an anniversary function as well as a pre-commencement gathering of alumni and undergraduates. REV. J. W. VAN SCHAICK PREACHES AT VESPERS. Rev. John W. VanSchaick, Jr., of Wash- ington, D. C., a member of the class of '94, gave an interesting talk on friendship at the vespe~rs service Sunday in the chapel. His text was \Love your enemy, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them that persecute you.\ He 'vent into the subject in a theological way, enumerating the different arguments on this subject and giving his views on the matter. II e said that such a text did not tend to the neglect of friends, but rather to an increase of friendship. Dr. George Alexander offered the pTayer at the request of John Imrie, '1 '1, leader of the Christian association of the college. ALUMNI RULED CAMPUS MOST OF YESTERDAY. Events From Morning Until Night Made It a Busy Day. The alumni had things pretty much their own way on the campus yesterday. The big events of the day included the costume parade, a notable and interesting event each year. The presentation of the new flag pole by the senior class and the large flag by the local Sons of the American Revolution followed. The annual meeting of the gen- eral alumni association and the alumni din- ner at the gymnasium completed the morn- ing's events. The afternoon opened with the Union- Col umbia baseball game on the campus, which was witnessed by the reunion classes. occupying decorated boxes. Seats at the game were at a premiun1. The president's reception followed and the day was brought to a close with a gala event of the week, the alumni night program on Alexander Field-a frolic of fun and mirth.

l , I i l 24 THE CONCORDIENSI'S. Where You Danced. MANY ALUMNI ENJOY THE EVERYMAN'S DINNER Mohawk Golf Club Scene of Lively Even- . tng. Everyman's dinner, one of the big events for the non-~reunion classes at each com- tnencement, which was held Monday night at the Mohawk Golf Club, probably pro- duced more music than in many past years, music taking the place of the speeches, which are usually a feature of this affair. There were over 100 meJ! present, representing al- most all of the classes which were not hav- ing reunion dinners of their own. F~rank Burton, '83, of Gloversville, presided, while D. W. Weed, '03, of Ballston Spa, was chair- man of the committee in charge. The feature was the singing. All the Union songs were sung, some of them sev- eral tin1es. Patriotic airs, old tme favor- ites, presnt day popular songs and, in fact, all kinds of songs were sung. A quartet helped the chorus, initiated some of the sing- i:' g- and did some singing on its own ac- count, making cals on the several class din- ners at the club in the n1eanwhile. The class of 1906 n1ade the circuit of the hall in the course of its parade and drew much ~LPi_)lause. At the conclusion of the menu it was an- nounced there w-ould be no speeches and every man joined in the following toast: \Union College, our college, always a good college, now a better college and to be a still better college.\ The alumni luncheon in the gym yester- day was one of the briliant features of the week. President Richmond held a ~reception at his hon1e yesterday afternoon fron1 4 :30 to 6:00. DR. AL Meeti Then dety at brought key mell as follo' '78, N e' Clarenc~ treasur<: Schenec Stewart Dele~ the Phi phia in Dr. AI<: W. Ric A. Akit Proft: C. Stev pointed bration of Phi: MR. J. AS Am~ made s J. Th store t large b Union better, is wid· and hi: ially g1

24 THE CONCORDIENSIS. \\'here \' ou Danced. lVIAI'JY ALUMNI ENJOY THE EVERYMAN'S DINNER Mohawk Golf Club Scene of Lively Even- . tng. l·:\·eryn1an 's dinner, one of the big eyents for the non-reunion classes at each con1- nH'ncen1ent, \vhich \Yas held 1v1onday night at the :\Ioh~n~;k Golf Club, probably pro- (i uced n1orc tnusic than in rnany past years. n1u~ic taking the place of the speeches, \vhich ;tt·e u~ually a feature of this affair. There were oYer 100 tncn present. representing al- rno~t all of the classes \vhich \Yere not hav- jqg reunion dinners of their ovvn. Frank Burtun, ·s:~. of Glo\·ersvillc, presided, vvhilc D.\\·. \\'eed, 'o:~. of Ballston Spa, \\·as chair- 1n;u1 of the con1n1 i ttee in charge. ThC' feature \\·as the singing. /\11 the l..- n ion songs \Verc sung-, son1 e of then1 SC'\·- cral tit11<:s. Patriotic airs, old tnH' fa\·or- Jte~. presnt day popular ~ongs and. in fact, all kinds of songs vvcre sung. A quartet helped the chorus, initiated sotne of the sing- j ·, g- and did son1e singing on its own ac- count, n1aki ng cals on the several class din- ners at the c1 u b in th c 111 e an vV hi 1 e. The class of 190G tnacle the circuit of the hall in the course of its parade and dre\v n1uch ~Lp[)lause. At the conclusion of the n1enu it \vas an- nouncc'd there \-vould be no speeches and c·,·cry rnan joined in the follovving toast : \t:nion Colle-ge, our college, ahva\·s a good college. now a better college and to he a still better college.'' The alun1ni lunch<'on in the g-ytn yester- dav \vas one of the briliant fe;ltures of the \\'t'Ck. President Richn101Hi held a r<'cc-pt1on at bis hcnnr vestcrdav aftl'rnoon fron1 -~ ::)o to (; :00. DR. AI Meet: Then c1ety at brought key n1er as follo 1 '78, Ne' Clarenc treasun Schene< Stewar1 Dele! the Phi phia in Dr. Alt W. Ri< A. Aki1 Profc C. Ste-v pointe( bration of Phi MR. J. A~ Am made~ J. 1'h store 1 large 1: Union better, is -vvid and hi ially g

THE CONCORDIENSlS. 25 DR. ALEXANDER DUANE HEADS PHI BETA KAPPA. Meeting Held On Monday Afternoon. The meeting of the Phi Beta Kappa So- - dety at 1 :30 o'clock Monday at Union brought together a considerable number of key men. Officers for the year were elected, as follows: President, Dr. Alexander Duane, '78, New York City; vice-president, Hon. Clarence E. Akin, '77, Johnsonville, N. Y.; treasurer, Attorney Robert J. Landon, '80, Schenectady; secretary, Professor M. C. Stewart. Delegates to the triennial convention of the Phi Beta Kappa, to be held in Philadel- phia in September, were elected as follows : Dr. Alexander Duane, '78; Rev. Dr. Edwin W. Rice, '54, Philadelphia; Hon. Clarence A. Akin, '7\/ Johnsonville, N. Y. Professor John I. Bennett, Prof. Morton C. Stewart and Prof. F. C. Barnes were ap- pointed a committee to arrange for the cele- bration of the centennial of the N. Y. Alpha of Phi Beta Kappa next year. MR. J. THEARL MAKES ASTOUNDING ANNOUNCEMENT. A most astounding announcement was made shortly before yesterday's game by J. Thearl, the well known department store magnate. He stated that one (1) large box of cigars would be handed to each Union player who made a three-bagger or better, and no questions asked. Mr. Thearl is widely known as an ardent sportsman, and his interest in Union athletics is espec- ially gratifying to the students. CLASS OF SIXTY -SIX CELEBRATES 50th BIRTHDAY. Is One of the Large'St Re-Unions of the Year. --------- The class of 1866 is engaged this week in celebrating its fiftieth birthday. A majority of its members had reached S-chenectady last Saturday, and the number that has joined them since makes it one of the largest re- unions of the year. Among the members of the class who are attending are: Rev. Dr. George Alexander, A. B., D. D., class president; John E. Ashe, A. B., post- office inspector, New York, captain of com- pany marchers; Dr. Erskin S. Bates, Ithaca; Matthew Bender, Albany; Frederick Blake, A. B., Troy; Monroe M. Cady, A. B., Du- buque, Iowa; John B. Clancy, A. B., Amster- dam; Rev. Alftred Coons, D. D., Elizaville, N. y. ; Erastus Coons, C. E., class poet, German- town, N.Y. ; Henry C. Copeland, New York; Rev. John J. Dean, A. B., D. D., Kingston; Rev. R. P. Gibson, D. D., Croton Falls; Charles W. Johnson, C. E., St. Paul, Minn.; William Loucks, A. B., Albany ; Henry C. Littlefield, Albany; Alonzo W. Page, C. E., New York; John M. Pearson, A. M. Sche- nectady ; Thomas J. Sanson, A. E., East Orange, N. J.; Lyman L. Settel, Brooklyn; Daniel Seymour, A. B., A. M., class secre- tary, New York; Ron. Edward Wemple, Fulton ville. Each night the college campus is ablaze The main walks and buildings have been il- luminated since Saturday night.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 25 DR. ALEXANDER DUANE HEADS PHI BET A KAPPA. Meeting Held On Monday Afternoon. The meeting of the Phi Beta Kappa So- c1ety at 1 :30 o'clock 1\fonday at Union brought together a considerable nun1ber of key n1en. Officers for the year were elected, as follows: President, Dr. Alexander Duane, '78, New York City; vice-president, Hon. Clarence E. Akin, '77, Johnsonville, N. Y.; treasurer, Attorney Robert J. Landon, '80, Schenectady; secretary, Professor l\1. C. Stewart. Delegates to the triennial convention of the Phi Beta Kappa, to be held in Philadel- phia in September, were elected as follows: Dr. Alexander Duane, '78; Rev. Dr. Edwin W. Rice, '54, Philadelphia; Hon. Clarence A. Akin, '77, Johnsonville, N. Y. Professor John I. Bennett, Prof. 11orton C. Stewart and Prof. F. C. Barnes vvere ap- pointed a con1mi ttee to arrange for the cele- bration of the centennial of the N. Y. Alpha of Phi Beta Kappa next year. MR. J. THEARL MAKES ASTOUNDING ANNOUNCEMENT. A most astounding announcement was made shortly before yesterday~s gan1e by J. 1'hearl, the well known department store magnate. He stated that one (1) large box of ciga·rs would be handed to each Union player who n1ade a three-hagger or better, and no questions asked. l\1r. trhearl is v\.:idely known as an ardent sportsn1an, and his interest in Union athletics is espec- ially gratifying to the students. CLASS OF SIXTY ~SIX CELEBRATES 50th BIRTHDAY .. Is One of the Largest Re-Unions of the Year. ;.o------··- The class of 1866 is engaged this week in celebrating its fiftieth birthday. A majority of its members had reached Schenectady last Saturday, and the number that has joined then1 since n1akes it one of the largest re- unions of the year. An1ong the me1nbers of the class who are attending are : Rev. Dr. George Alexander, A. B., D. D., class president; John E. Ashe, A. B., post- office inspector, New York, captain of com- pany n1archers; Dr. Erskin S. Bates, Ithaca; 1-Iatthevv Bender, Albany; Frederick Blake, A. B., 'Troy; :N1onroe 1\L Cady, A. B., Du- buque, Iovva; John B. Clancy, A. B., Amster- dam; Rev. Alf·red Coons, D. D., Elizaville, N. 'i.; Erastus Coons, C. E., class poet, Gern1an- to\vn, N. \'\. ; 11 enry C. Copeland, l\ ew ·~{ ork ; Rev. John J. Dean, A. B., D. D., Kingston; Rev. R. P. Gibson, D. D., Croton Falls: Charles \V. Johnson, C. E., St. Paul, nfinn.; \Villian1 Loucks, A. B., Albany; Henry C. Littlefield, Albany; A.lonzo \\'. Page, C. E., New \ ... ork; John 1v1. Pearson, A. M. Sche- nectady; Thotnas J. Sanson, A. B., East Orange, N. J.; Lyman L. Sette I, Brooklyn; Daniel Seymour, .A. B .. A. ~1., class secr~­ tary, :\e\v York: l-Ion. Ed\i\Tard \\Ten1ple. Fultonville. Each night the college can1pus is ablaze 'l'he main ·walks and buildings have been il- lutninated since Saturday night.

26 THE CONCORDIENSIS. DEAN RIPTON HAS BEEN WITH UNION 30 YEARS. Thirtieth Anniversary of His Professorship. Succeeded Prof. Whitehorne. Along with the hundred and twentieth commencement of the college, Union stu- dents and alumni are celebrating this week the thirtieth anniversary of the professor- ship of Dean Benjamin H. Ripton, \the Dean\ as he is universally called. visitor, the Dean is imm·ensely popula~r with the students. His shrewd philosophy with a liberal dash of humor is his most delightful attribute. '86 GIVES MOVIE SHOW. Interesting Entertainment in Chemical Lab. A large number of the alumni hurried to the chemical laboratory, following the class day exercises, and fortunately so, for the limited seating capacity of the laboratory tory and government, a course which has wa ssoon taxed and many who sought ad- Dean Ripton now holds the chair of his·- mission to view the pictures thrown on the screen there, and listen to the historical sketch of college life thirty years ago, were deeply disappointed. become an institution in the college curri- culum and without which no student would consider his course complete. He first en- tered the ranks of the faculty as a professor in mathematics; there is ~ sharpness in his thinking yet which stamps him a mathe- matician as well as a historian. When D~r. Raymond took over the presidency of the college, Prof. Ripton succeeded Prof. White- horne as Dean. He taught some years in the chair of history and sociology before ~s­ suming the professorship that he now holds. In class room, on the ca1npus or in the fraternity house, where he is a welcome • T • 0 a X I p u :::0 trJ ..... PHONE rr1 ~ 2! 8-4-4 E- ~ > z PHONE >< 1:&:1 ...... (.IJ T • a:: n (..? a X I 0 • The class of '86 staged this interesting bit of commencement week activity. The meet- ing will go down in history a fitting dis- tinction to a class that has distinguished it- self in college life. This is the class that set the alumni agog vvhen it started off with a whirlwind spurt to celebrate its thirtieth re-gathering with , dinner Saturday night at the Helderberg Country Club, forty-eight hours in advance 9£ any other re-union body. • T • 0 ax I p u ~ &l ...... PHONE :>< 2 < 8-4-4 E- ~ > z PHONE >< I'.IJ ..... LW T • ~ n ~ a X I 0 • c'Th~ E.W .• Colles clu ah Tl Phone J

Mr. L. F. Burke, Schenectady, N.Y. City of Chicago awarded us contract for 150 Model 17-E Excelsior Motorcycles. Other com- petitors were $13.00 lower each. Quality counts. EXCELSIOR MOTOR MFG. & SUPPLY. L. Fa BURKE, Boston Sq., 230 So. Center Street Excelsior and Henderson Motorcycles-· Bicycles and Smith Motor Wheels. •'The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 19HJ WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 Colle:te Representative NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie~ insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ '1 f01''?J5 4; .As new ARROW CO LLARspring style. in two heights CLUET~ PEABODY &-co. lNC.MAKtRS . CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. · We clean everything that needs ele.at'l .. ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

II ~·· . . ... / t 4 • . ~ ·,·_:!·~~ : .... ,; .~;\\'1 ... ·1·,·-. . . ~. veryw ere•• Wherever Men gather· discuss- compare- reveal· exchange ideas· Especially when good clothes are in evidence, \The House of Houghton\ stands high. It has been said that the average man can de· teet a ''Houghton\ suit even in a large crowd •. Very recently in a gathering of young men, there being twenty-seven pre- sent. The '~Houghton'' label appeared in eighteen coats out of twenty-seven. . ·~ I; Now Boy's there must be something to it··- . It can't all be fiction • u 455 STATE STREET Sobeaectady. 11~ Art Pren 11'~.· ~ / y [A, \'

