e CONCORDIENSIS : VOLUME 39 NO. Z3 PUBLISHED WEEI(L Y BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY 1' d __ d,. c::::================================----_-_- ___ ..J..._-_-_-_-_-_-:·~

UNION UNIVERSI CHARLES ALEXAN.DER RICHMOND, ~o. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ·The college ofters the following undergraduate ud graduate courses : . 1.. O•ur•e• leadlnc to the degree of .A.. B, ervASSICAI'.t CoURSS A.-Greek is required for ad· mission to this course. French and German are in- duded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B -This course may be pur- . sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for a.dmission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE. Founded 1838--A complete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate responsibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re ... arranged to conform to improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. s. . Oour•e leading to the degree of Ph. B. LA 'l'IN- ScntNTIF'IC CouRsE- This course offers L~in without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science~ · Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- a. Vour&e leading to the degree of B. S. SciJtN1'IltiC Cou:ass- This course is based upon the •~u.dy of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Conr•e leading to the degree of B. E. G~tNitltAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course offers dte foundation of a broad engineering education, eemprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINE!tRING CouRs:Jt-This differs from the g-eneral engineering course in substituting special w~rk in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINE~ING CouRsE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. IJ. Vonr•e• leading to graduate degree•. CouRSE f.tEADING To DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This ceurse of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. COURSE LEADING To DEGR!It or M. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING To DEG:RJ£! o\F PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for ::ldmis- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARN!S, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W . mission must pre-sent his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and. must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completton of . one year's study, in a. recogniz~d colle~e or scien- tific school, of phystc·s, chemtstry, btology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- a tory breakage. '1'he academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and other communications should be ad- dressed to THOMAS ORDWAY, M. D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCiiOOL-Thi!~ department of the university is located at Albany, near the st~te capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to tts use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. i9 three years; each year is divided into two ~~rnesten. Expenses : Matriculation fee, $to; tuttton fee, $rio. For catalogue or other information, address: JoaN C. WATSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-6rad~d course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving fu11 information, address: ALFR~D B. HuES'l'ED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. V. SUITS PRESSED 25c. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Acrou from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate VOl VAJ: Prin Tea: T ed f losi: and ivel 1 avvl maJ cha the anc Th, Oll( . SlX pit fra we th<: ru1 tri·

The Concordiensis VOL. 39 MAY 4, 1916 NO. 23 VARSITY LOSES TWICE COLUMBIA. ON SOUTHERN B. B. TRIP; ab. r. h. po. a. 2 3 1 0 RAIN STOPS C. A. C. GAME. Watt, 2b --------- 3 0 1 Laird, cf. -------- 3 2 1 Princeton Wins 4-2 and Columbia 6-1 in Buonaguro, ss. ____ 4 1 2 Hard Fought Contests. Mernstein, lb._ ..... -- 4 1 0 Beck,p. ---------- 3 1 1 2 0 5 0 BAD WEATHER PREVAILS. Houck, 3b. ------ 4 0 1 Bensen, lf. ------- 3 0 0 0 1 1 2 1 0 Team, Howe.ver, Plays Great Ball for First Lano, c. _____ .... ____ 3 1 1 Appearance-Alumni Pleased. Shea, rf ---------- 2 0 1 15 1 0 0 The Union College baseball team return- ed from its initial trip last Thursday after losing two hard fought games to Columbia and Princeton by 6-1 and 4-2 scores respect- ively. Columbia 6, Union 1. The game with Columbia · looked for avvhile as though Union would halt the march of the former college toward the championship until an avalanche of runs in the sixth inning made it possible for the Blue and White to win its sixth straight victory. The final score was 6 to 1, Colutnbia getting one run in the third inning and five in the sixth. Goff, a member of the freshman class, pitched a good game until the fatal sixth frame. He only allowed eight hits but they were unfortunately bunched in such a way that four came in the sixth. Union's only run came in the fifth inning when Colison tripled and came home on Green's sacrifice. 'rhe score: Total --------- 29 6 UNION. ab. r. Moynihan, 3b. ____ 4 0 Friday, lf -------- 3 0 11ay,cf. ---------- 1 0 Steele, 1 b. -------- 2 0 Zin1mer, rf. ------ 3 0 Colison, ss. _______ 2 1 Green, c. --------- 2 0 Rosekranz, 2b ==·~ 3 0 Goff, p. ---------- 3 0 Totals--------- 23 1 8 27 h. po. a. 1 2 1 0 3 1 0 1 1 0 8 0 0 0 0 1 0 g 0 6 0 0 2 2 1 () 5 3 24 11 Union ______ o 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0-1 Columbia ___ o 0 0 1 0 5 0 0 *--6 Errors-Colun1bia: Houck; Union: Rose- kranz, Steele. Three base hits-Houck, Coli- son. Two base hits-Benson, Green. Stolen bases-Mernstein, Book, May. Left on bases-Columbia, 5; Union, 4-. First base on errors-Colun1bia, 1 ; Union, 1. B·ases on

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. balls-Off Beck, 4; off Goff, 4. St1ruck out- By Beck, 13; by Goff, 5. Passed ball-Lane. Double plays-Houck to vVatt to M·ernstein; May to Rosekranz to Steele. Umpire-Arlie Latham. Time-1 :40. * * * Princeton 4, Union 2. In a loose game of ball Princeton defeated the Union nine in the second game of the season by a score of 4 to 2. H urn mer pitched a good game and deserved to win. Union entered the run column in the first half of the fifth frame. \Zip\ Zin1mer started the pro- ceedings by singling to center. Steele was awarded a f1ree ticket, but Greene, who fol- lowed him went out on a high fly to left field. There were then two on bases and one out. When Douglas of the Tigers per- mitted the ball to escape him, Zimmer and Steele each advanced a base. \Tubby\ Rose- crans lofted the ball to Tibbott,bringing Zim- mer in after the catch. Union's only other tally came in tFie eighth when Link, the Tiger pitcher, balked. Union had many chances to score but was unable to take ad- vantage of the1n. The score is as follows : UNION. ab. r. Moynihan, 3b. ____ 3 0 Friday, rf. -------- 3 0 May,cf. __________ 2 0 Hatl}away, cf. ~--- 2 0 Colison, ss. _______ 3 0 Zimmer, If. _______ 3 1 Steele, lb.-------- 2 0 Greene, c. -------- 4 0 Rosekrans, 2b. ____ 4 0 Hun1mer, p ______ 3 1 Totals--------- 29 2 h. po. a. 0 2 2 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 4 3 2 3 0 0 6 1 0 6 2 0 0 0 1 1 0 5 24 8 PRINCETON. a b. r. h. po. a. Lee, If. ---------- 4 0 0 3 0 ;-fibbott, rf, lb. ---- 2 1 1 6 1 Holt, 'cf ---------- 4 1 1 1 0 Driggs, ss. ------- 4 1 1 3 0 Douglas, c. ------- 3 1 2 8 3 Scully, lb. ------- 1 0 0 3 0 Hammond, rf. ---- 3 0 1 1 0 Talley, 2b ------- 4 0 0 1 1 ·Chaplin, p -----·-- 3 0 0 0 4 Link, p. ---------- 0 0 0 0 1 Totals --------- 32 4 8 27 11 Errors-Union : Greene, .H um.mer ; Prince- ton: Douglas ( 2), Chaplin. Stolen bases- Talley, Tibbott, Shea. Two base hits- Douglas, Tibbott. Struck out-By Chaplin, 4; by Link, 2; by Humn1er, 5. Bases on balls-Off Chaplin, 4; off H urn mer, 3. Pass- ed balls-Douglas, 2; Greene., 1. Hit bats·· man-By Chaplin (Zimmer, Steele.) Left on bases-Union, 6; Princeton, 5. Titne of game-1 :50. THE WEEK'S BASEBALL. I-Iarvard, 10; Vermont, 1. Penn, 8; Yale, rr. Cornell, 1 ; Princeton, 0. Dartmouth, 5 ; Brown, 4. Tufts, 9; Springfield Y. M. C. A., 6. Holy Cross, 2 ; Williams, 1. N. Y. University, 6; Swarthmore, 5. Penn State, 8; West Virginia, 1. Armory, 4; Lehigh, 1. Hamilton, 6; Stevens, 4. Syrftcuse, 3; Rochester, 0. Michigan, 8; Case, 0. Amherst, 8; Wesleyan, 3. Navy, 13 ; North Carolina, 2. Maine, 4; Bowdoin, 3. Trinity, 4; Lafayette, 3. UN Ge11 Tht p gar Bu· 1 an<J dot the anc she bo~ 1 rna de( me Tb lVI< bu str . Wl on titJ fel tir W< su W< \r] . ln us ar at Ol tb of

THE CONCORDIEN.SI:S .. 11 UNION DEFEATS HOBART IN FIRST CAMPUS GAME. Genevans, Entirely Outclassed, Beaten by 15-0 Score. GAME A LISTLESS ONE. Threatening Weather Makes Opening Game Crowd Very Small. As the 15 to 0 score shows, last Saturday's game with Hobart was decidedly uneven. But it was more than uneven, it was slovv and uninteresting, for at no time was there doubt as to the outcome and at no time were there any especially sensational perforn1.- ances. It is sufficient to say that our nine showed itself far superior to the Geneva boys in batting and in fielding. Union's score of 15 came as a result of runs made in every inning except the seventh. In- deed, if a player reached first, he seemed al- most certain of also touching hon1e plate. The bingles-except a two-base hit by Billy 1\tlay-were confined in unusual degree to bunts. As far as batting is concerned, the striking feature of the game was the success with which our team used this means not only of advancing the runner but also of get- ting to the initial bag. As for the Hobart fellows, they had men on first base but three times, twice in the first ining when Hummer was pitching and once later when Goff is- sued a free ticket. The real interest of the game lay in the work of Gene and of Homer Goff, both of \rhotn did splendid twirling for us. For five innings Captain Hummer pitched in his usual clever way. Eight batters struck out and not one reached first on balls while he -vvas in the game. \Vhen Hon1er was put in at the beginning of the sixth inning, we had our first chance to see what he could do with the ball. The result, together with tnemories of his work at Colutnbia,n1akes us stnile when we think of next year's prospects. In four innings he struck out seven batters and al- lowed not a hit. Only one man reached fi.1rst and he did so on balls. In the fourtl1 inning May took Hathaway's place in center field and stayed there until the ninth inning when a number of changes were made. Then Powell took his place, Peasley relieved Friday in right field, Beyerl took left field for Zimmer and Miller guarded first base in place of Steele. Travis in the fifth inning battea- for Hummer. The score was: Union- a.b. h. p.a. a. Moynihan, 3b. --------- 3 1 1 1 Friday, rf. ------------ 4 0 0 0 Peasley, rf. ------------ 0 0 0 0 Hathaway, cf. --------- 2 0 1 0 May, cf. -------------- 3 2 0 0 Powell, c. ------------- 0 0 0 0 Collison, ss. ----------- 6 4 0 2 Zimmer, 1£. ----------- 5 1 1 0 Beyerl, lf. ------------ 0 0 0 0 Steele, lb. ------------ 4 2 5 0 Miller, lb. ------------ 0 0 0 0 Greene, C· ------------ 5 3 15 0 Rosekrans, 2b. -------- 5 1 3 2 Hummer, p. ---------- 2 0 1 1 Goff, p. --------------- 2 1 0 1 *Travis -- ------------ 0 0 0 0 Totals -- ---------- 41 15 27 7 Hobart- a.b. h. p.o. a. l)oty, 2b. -------------- 4 0 3 4 Coxe, ss. -------------- 3 0 3 1 I{egm'dy, rf. ---------- 4 1 0 0 Russtn' dy; lf. ---------- 3 1 1 0 Loon1is, 3b. ----------- 3 0 1 4 Henry, lb. ------------ 3 0 13 1 \Vhi tcon1 b, c. --------- 3 0 3 0 l(inney, p. ------------ 1 0 0 4 Lockry, cf. ------------ 3 0 0 0 rrotals -- ----------- 20 2 24: 14 *Batted for H un1n1er in fifth inning. U n1pire-B lanchard.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. UNION AND WILLIAMS TO CROSS BATS SATURDAY. Purple Has De.feated Penn and Lost to Prince:t<>n By 1-0 Score. CAPTAIN SEIBERT A STAR. Young, Pitcher, and Clark and Dunn, In- fielders, Ate Mainstays of Team. Saturday the varsity journeys to Wil- liamstown to assume diamond relations with the wearers of the Purple. Consider- able development has showed through the week's stiff practice, and the squad leaves for the trip better able to cope with the enemy than it was on the southern trip. Union will undoubtedly have to travel at a speedy clip to beat Williams. The Pur- ple is playing a strong game this season, and has had longe1r time to round into true form. On their southern trip, they played five games, .losing by only very close scores to Virginia, Georgetown, Princeton and West Point and defeating Pennsylvania. Princeton won from Williams by the score of 1-0. Since returning from the trip Wil- liams has canceUed a game with M. A. C. on account of rain and has been defeated by Holy Cross by the score of 2-1. The stars of the Purple this year are Cap- tain Seibert, a spectacular fielder, Young, who has practiced. for the varsity every year since entering college, and Clark and Dunn, an unusually clever pair of infielders. Wil- liam's Saturday line-up will probably be: Brumbaugh, lb; Dunn, 2b ; Howland, 3b ;· Clark, ss; Statler, 1f ; Captain Seibert, cf; Michler or Radley, rf; Powell, c, and Young, Debevoise or :Foster, p. The annual initiation of the English Club was held last Friday night. The annual club play was also given at this time and was enthusiastically received. CHEMISTS BEAT BIOLOGISTS IN WILDLY EXCITING GAME. Less Than 4,000 Spectators Throng Side- lines- Johnny Jackson Scintillates. On Tuesday, April 25, baseball teams rep- resenting the sophomore chemistry and biology classes played their first game on the Paddy diamond, Nott Street. During the first two innings the biologists led by a wide margin, but in the thiTd the chemists came back hard and nearly drove Travis from the box. From then on the Biologists were unable to solve the Chem- ists' formulae, and at the close of the fifth, when the game was called on account of darkness, the ·Chemists led, 9 to 7. Jackson, playing center field for the Bio- logists, starred repeatedly and drew much applause from the audience of less than 4,000 which thronged the side-lines. Jackson's special feature seemed to· be the playing of both center field and second base at one and the same time. Krusie and Y ordon collided in center field when both attempted to catch the saq1e ball, but neither was fatally injured. Breitenstein umpired, and gave universal satisfaction. Detailed information 1s appended: Batteries-Chemists : Allen and Carey, p; Hochuli, c; Biologists: Travis, p; Sevitz, c. Length of game-J 5 innings, called on ac- count of darkness. Teams, -Chemists: Allen and Carey, p; Hochuli, c; W. Hochuli, lb; Hoag, 2b ; Carey and Allen, 3b; Wall ace, ss; Hance and Reid, 1rf; Kreusie, cf; Yordon, 1£. Biologists-Travis, p; Sevitz, c; Benker, lb; Fancher, 2b; Towne, 3b ; Beattie, ss; Jack- son, cf; Buznall, rf; Smith, lf. At a 1neeting of the Interfraternity Confer- ence Tuesday night, Arnold Hoope1r was elected president for the coming year, and Louis Mann was elected secretary-treasurer. +) l res bar kn< cer Sai 6-1 sul for nu1 ticc da, ] us, pla pla a , sec an~ ha1 . ln§ pe: da· of tri· spc go thJ na GE Br an M, SCJ re: St1 th

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 +++++++++++++++++++ (• ~+STUDENT MEETING, MAY 1, 1916. + For baseball Gene Hummer reported the results of the Columbia, Princeton, and Ho- bart games of which every Union man knows already. On account of rain the Cres- cent A. C. game, which was scheduled for Saturday the 22nd, could not be played. The 6-1 Columbia score and the 4-2 Princeton re- sult showed clearly that our team is good, for both of these colleges have played a number of games this season. In the prac- tice game we had with Columbia on Tues- day the score was even, 3-3. Hobart said Gene was hardly a 111atch for us, and our nine was careless and did not play as it had on the trip. On Saturday we play Williams at Williamstown. They have a very good team, as is indicated by the score of 1-0 to which they lost to Princeton and, therefore, ou1r team is going to work hard and faithfully this week. The greatest difference in college meet- ings is that sometin1es Charlie Waldron ap- pears and sometimes he does not. On Mon- day he first added to Gene's talk a few words of praise for the work of the team on the trip. The alumni, he said, are pleased. He spoke then on Plattsburg. If you wish to go to this training camp but are unable through a lack of funds to do so, give your name to Charlie and he will forward it to General Wood who has written to Meade Brunet about some plan for financial assist- ance. Al_so, there is in the May Alumni Monthly an appeal to the alumni for sub- scription to be used in this manner. Commencement, however, was Charlie's real topic. In the first place he urged the students to stay for this, since a commence- n1ent without them lacks ''pepper.\ It is at this time that the alun1ni see and form their ideas about us. \Alumni Night,\ said Char- lie, \is a general celebration of Alma Ma- ter's birthday.\ He continued to speak of the Fitzhugh Ludlow Song Contest for which a cup, on which the winning class is to be named, has been offe1red by l\1:iss Lud- low. Also on that night a stunt is given by each class. This year they are to be bet- ter arranged and, therefore, it is expect- ed, more successful. Get to work on your song and your stunt, was the concluding admonition. Wally Girling reported defeat by the R. P. I. tennis tean1 in the games played last Sat- urday at Troy. In this practice game, for it is not part of our schedule, the R. P. I. team \showed surprisingly good stuff.\ Wally also announced that Jack Garrison is going to run a tennis tournan1en t for which Slazenger is offering a rachet. All are eligible with no fee for entrance. Phil Mallen said that, as a whole, prospects for the track season are very bright. How- ever, there are so1ne good men who should come out immediately since they have abil- ity. \The GARNET is out,\was Ernest Mande- ville's message. If you want one, and you do, you can get it at your house or by sign- ing one of the slips for the purpose distrib- uted. Carl Danner announced the election of the Secretary of the Athletic Board for next week. This officer, to be elected from the Junior class, represents the Student Body on the Executive Co111n1ittee. Election of officers for the Interfraternity Conference, for the Honor Court and for Philo1nathean wea.-e announced. Owing to difficulties which arose in con- tracting the orchestra, the Shakespeare Ter- centenary concert, which was to have been given shortly in the gym, h~s been definitely abandoned.

. 14 THE ,CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Publioshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., aoS Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN -CHIEF H. Ralph Knight------------ Psi Upsilon House MANAGING EDITOR. Fawcett W. Porter '17 ---------- Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR. William C. Loughlin '17, Phi Gamma Delta House LITERARY EDITOR David F. Chapman '17 --------- Delta Phi House ASST. LITERARY EDITOR Rudolph W. Schwartz '17 ---- 37 Glenwood Blvd ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. G. Carey, Jr., '18 E. L. Newell '18 F. G. Bascom '18 S W. Talbot '18 H. L. Cook '18 REPORTORIAL STAFF. H. H. Newton '19 Adam Bailey '19 G D. Rosenthal '19 W. R. Barnett '19 C A. Brind, Jr., '19 A. B. Dougal '19 E. ]. Griswold '19 K. H. Gorham '19 V. H. Scales '19 Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. iEbitnrala We were given three free days this EarSter-tide in which to blow off surplus Spring steam far from OUR ~HORT VACA- TIONS the 1naddening class room; oSome of us took the three days and spent them blowing 1nournfully about their absurd inadequacy arS a vacation; many, many n1ore took the three days and n1elded divers others to each end of them- n1elded with perfect freedo1n until they were ade- quate. We can't help displaying more or less sy1npathy with the former-we feat that we grum- bled a little i\n this vein ourself. Three days at Easter does seem rather meagre in face of the fact that the losrS doesn't appear to be balanced up any- where else in the schedule, not even in a notice- ably earlier cessation of hostilities at exam tin1e. We do not, however, wish to register any disap- proval of the situation, and we do not believe 1nany of the students on .gerious second thought care to either. J t is naturally to our good or it wouldn't be so. And we dis1niss the matter with that. 'On the other hand, we have a bomb of disap~ proval to cast at the latter class of students who indulge in melding at vacation time, who, it would .geem, never acquitted themselves better than dur~ ing the recess just passed. We would hardly raise our eye-brows in surprise-we would even feel the acdon entirely justifiable-should the faculty's pas•siveness have been slightly over-strained at this recent Easter melding and should they wrath- fully retaliate upon us next year by squeezing the three-day recess down to one and seeing to i:: that that fell on Easter Sunday. It would serve the molders jolly well right; down beneath their ire they would know it. We know nothing what- ever about it, but might it not be just possible that melding is the very reason that our va- cations are as short as they are? It is not im- possible that the faculty .gaid, \They should have 3 week at Easter. If we give them a week they will take two. We will give them three days!\ The proximity of a vacation should not be the signal for class room attendance to wither rapidly away to a scattered handful; neither should the completion of a week after vacation be the signal that brings then1 straggling back into the fold. It i-s a queer state of things that we, who will spend twenty-five or thirty dollars for a suit of clothes and kick like an irate mule if we don't get our n1oney's worth, will spend twenty-five or thirty dollars for an education and lift our voices in anguish when the college salesn1en try to give us what we have purchased. All this is not especially timely just now, for the melders are not likely to employ their art on this end of the sun1mer vacation at least. We sin1ply throw it out as an after-Easter thought, and trust it will fall ~_.n good ground that it may bear some fruit next Fall. We are in receipt of a letter which dioScovers fallacy in our editorial of last issue. Being human, we naturally do not relish avowal of mistakes but, at the same titne, we are grateful to the author for bringing the faux pas to our no- IN WHICH WE APOLIGIZE tice and we hope that he and other readers will promptly yank us back into the right path in the future should we again wander astray. The con1munication isap- pended: Editor:- Your is·sue of April 20th, 1916. contains the following staten1en t: 'The faculty v t n< t 1 Th but i is in In alter layir over men and wan tell her N true stuc that rlon clut am pro ton adn a t tee1 IN IN I-I< ba1 \.,va ] a g: ffil ha 110 n11 to th th

THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 has rnade a plea to the trustees for a uni- versal increase in salary.' I feel sure that this statement is entirely faltSe. Will you not make enquiry of the proper authori- ties, and (unless you find yourself sub- stantiated) make a denial of it in your sio.n as much as we wish. The game assumed a luuicrous aspect. The cheering section put itself to openly ridiculing the Hobart team-an action vvhich surpri-sed us considerably. We thought l.Tn.ion spirit ran on a higher level. Once, as the teams changed innings, a student stood up, stretched, and groaned most audibly, ''Ho hum! Hey, start the game!\ The bases were filled by errors, and tSome one howled, \Knock a hon1e-runl\ \Drape the cornet!\ \Play the dead n1arch l\ and \Got anything sad?\ were some of the howls directed at the band. It made no dif- fel ence how lusty the sun was, there was a loud and steady demand for rain checks. next number? Yours truly, There has been an agitation towards this end, but it in no .gense originated in faculty circles and is in no way being nourished by faculty metnbers. In passing we would say that this correction alters not a bit the thought of the editorial; in laying aside whatever chagrin they may have felt over its opening sentence, we trust the faculty men1ber will not forget the suggestion it offer>S and give the matter serious consideration. Union wants to be a leader. Pages of her past history tell us that she must be up and doing to bear up her reputation. No college posse.gses what might be called a true interrelationship between the faculty and the student. The wind is blowing pretty briskly in that direction at Union, but there has been little rlone beyond employing two or three college clubs and societies as a medium. We plead for a more radical step-the personal contact between profe.gsor and student, originating from the tormer-, a step which will be as new as it is admirable and which will make us as notable a twentieth-century leader as we were an eigh- teenth-century one. Spring fever was in the. cheering section Satur- day. It was great to be out under the old sun again with the old band booming away INSULT- and the old sumtner crowd out again ING and the old bats cracking. A>S always, I-IOBART we cheered whole-heartedly each good play whether it was a Union or a Ho- bart deed. For two innings we did-then there \'vas a subtle change. Hobart's attack withered away hopelessly against the wall of a better team; base ball is a minor sport at the Geneva college and we should have been atShatned of ourself if our team had not loomed up a little better than theirs. As in- nings passed, their chance to win was shrinking to a pin-point and their chance to score contract- ir g about as swiftly. They made many errors and they swung their bats wildly at the plate. And the cheering .gection began to laugh at them. Naturally we can't expect to control the emo- tions, but we can control their outward expres- We pride ourself that we are gentlemen, but so1ne of the more sober-minded in the Saturday cheering •section must have felt that they had overrated themselves. The whole affair was a ruatter of thoughtlessness-that is certain enough -and there isn't a man in college who would have it happen again. We are above that sort of thing here at Union. +++++++++++++++++++ ·•~ THE FORUM. + •lt This column does not necessarily ex- + •t~ press the sentin1ents of the editors of •) +t+ THE CONCORDIENSIS. We heart- + ~· ily welcome communications from + .. t alumni and undergraduates but, in + •t- do1ng so, reserve the right of selection •) {~ and deletion. ( •) \THANK GOD, IT'S EPISCOPAL!\ 1~o the Editor of the CONCORDIENSIS: I am under the impression that the origi- nal sense of the title \Union College\ was this : A college which 'vould represent a union of all religious denon1inations and creeds. That is to say, the college was founded to allow 1nembers of all sects of religious belief to study together without distinction. In this it made a departure fron1 the principles of other colleges and universities such as, I believe, HarvaJrd, Yale, and Wesleyan, where, it seen1s, spe- cific religious principles were fostered. This was a step in the forward direction that Union still maintains.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. The idea of compulsory chapel services is hard to reconcile with this principle. It is of course possible, however, to do so if a certain f:reedom and liberality is main- tained in the services themselves. That is to say, it seems proper to expect deference to the several churches of the country. Even this is hardly inclusive-since men of other creeds than the Christian attend college, perhaps led to do so by the freedom that is in its natne. Though after all, the interpre- tation o£ its name may be \a union of Chris- tian oreeds.\ Were college men sticklers in matters of this kind, the complaint could certainly be 1nade that at the present day only one or two churches are represented by the truly esteemed leaders of our chapel services. The prayers, the hymns, the observances are to a great extent confined it seems to the creeds of Calvin and Wesley. Great was my surprise when a visiting Presbyterian minister, prom- inent in his church, on a recent occasion be- gan his prayer with the famous words of the beautiful prayer of St. John Chrysostom- J ohn of the Golden Mouth. In fact, a no less devout prayer was offered up on that occa- sion-\Thank God, it's Episcopal !\-by at least one member of the congregation. But the visiting minister soon branched off into extetnporiza tion. It seen1s felicitous that so1ne observance should be made of other churches than are now represented. In the group of students with \vhom the writer is most intimately connected, a recent census brought to light the fact that at least half belonged to a de- nomination which has not been specifically recognized to the writer's knowledge this year in chapel. To be brief, it is the writer's belief that at least half the men in college, if they thought about the subject, would feel that their individual spiritual needs and uses were not sufficiently deferred to in chapel observances. This is said not in any criticisn1 of the individual leaders of chapel services, but in gentle dissent from the custom which holds at Union. Ash Wednesday is a day of special, great, and solemn significance to Romanists and members of at least one other church. The writer attended chapel on that day with. the firm belief that some observance of the occa- sion would be made. It came as a shock when nothing whatever was said or sung that could in the least convey any special distinction to that day. The number of stu- dents in college who are not sectarian in their faith is certainly sufficiently large to 1nake this seem, unconsciously, a little heed- less of the principle under which it is be- lieved Union had its birth. There must be members of the faculty of other denominations than those usually rep- resented at chapel. It is not impertinence, we trust, therefore, to hope that it were pos- sible to effect so1ne satisfactory solution of this delicate question. The writer feels sure that any such en- deavor to consider a vvider range of spiritual teaching would bring its own reward in ap- preciation of compulsory chapel among the students at Union. Yours truly, M.G. E. C. TROUT SPEAKS IN CHAPEL VESPERS Tells Truths Gleaned From Personal Ex·· perience. Mr. E. C. Trout of the City Mission spoke at Sunday vespers, giving a very inter- esting and entertaining discourse on his own life-story and kindred n1atters. Mr. Trout, a self-made or, as he ex- pressed it, \God-made\ man, spoke deep truths gleaned from his personal experience. He made a unique but strong appeal to hi5 hearers, and the small audience gained real good from hearing him. At the close of the service, Mr. Trout play- ed several very novel banjo selections, which were much appreciated. .. ( 1917 - Th strict ers h day. on it book ion ~ is th~ prorr. to in have plim~ Tt ren1CJ sold, by t: tion~ ly. U1 in tt 4-2 ' mate ed 1 (Ve1 6-4, mon Gris and Gilh Sole <Ve1 A· Clul lowi year . v1ce Lev n1an

THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 GARNET APPEARS ON TIME. 1917 Year Book is Truly Complimentary to· Union. The 1917 Garnet appeared last Monday strictly on schedule tin1e, and all subscrib- ers had received their numbers by Wednes- day. The board is to be commended both on its adherence to schedule in issuing the book and on its general excellence. Opin- ion generally has it that the '17 yea·r book is the best in undergraduate memory. The promises of the editors have been lived up to in every department, and their efforts have resulted in a work which is truly coln- plimentary to Union. The management announces that there ren1ains but a half dozen Garnets yet to be sold, and that those will undoubtedly be gone by the end of the week. If other subsorip- tions are to be made, they should be prompt- ly. Union defeated the University of Vermont in tennis Tuesday afternoon by a score of 4-2, winning three singles and one doubles match. The score: ~eckett (Union) defeat- ed Taggart (Vermont) 6.:4, 2-6, 6-3; Pear (Vennont) defeated Brown (Union) 8-10, 6-4, 7-5 ; Soler (Union) defeated Ellis (V er- mont) 6-1, 7-5; Girling (Union) defeated Grisner (Vermont) 6-3, 6-3. Doubles-Ellis and Grisner (Vermont) defeated Girling and Gillespie (Union) 6-3, 2-6, 7-5; Beckett and Soler (Union) defeated Taggert and Ellis <Vermont) 6-3, 4-6, 6-4. At a regular meeting of the Cosmopolitan Club held Tuesday evening, May 2, the fol- lowing officers were elected for the coming year: H. Monteiro, president; J. W. Upp, vice-president; K. G. Piong, secretary; A. J. Levy, corresponding secretary; E. C. V roo- 111an, treasurer. R. P. I. DEFEATS GARNET IN FIRST TENNIS MATCH Soler in Singles and Rosenthal and Brown In Double·s are Union's Winners. Union opened the tennis season Saturday by playing a match with R. P. I. on the Laureate Boat Club_ courts, of Troy. Union lost by a 4-2 score. Wally Girling's knee is not yet 1n shape to stand any strain so Rosen- thal took his place and put up a steady and consistent game. In the singles Joe Soler won easily from Reeves, but in the _three other sets the Troy players were victorious. The set between Beckett and Captain MacDonald was full of thrilling shots and Beck fought through to the last ditch be- fore he was beaten. Rosenthal and Brown paired up in doubles and beat Mor1ris and courtenay, but Beckett and Soler lost to Breese and McDonald in a match \Vhich was replete with brilliant playing. The score: Singles- Soler beat Reeves, 6-2, 6-0. Haight beat Brown, 6-0, 6-3. Breese beat Rosenthal, 6-2, 6-1. MacDonald beat Beckett, 3-6, 6-4, 7-5. Baubles- MacDonald and Breese beat Soler and Beckett, 6-2, 1-6, 7-5. Brown and Rosenthal beat lVIorris and Courtenay, 6-1, 6-3. Robins of the many pockets, who will be remembered here as the con1.edian in \Ka- tinka,\ when it opened at the Van, has just been engaged to play in the \Midnight Re- view,\ another midnight frolic which has opened at Castles in the Air, atop the 44th St~reet theatre.

18 THE CONCORDIEN:SIS . •••••••••••••••••••• + +t• (• \FORWARD MARCH TO PLATTS- •t• (• BURG.\ •t• By Ned Moore-Psi U House. +t• Owing to the absence of the chairn1an of the sub-committee on enrollment from town this week an up-to-date list of the men on the hi_ll who have enrolled for this year is un- available. The last report is as published in the Alumni Monthly, numbering four faculty men1bers and twelve students up to April 17th. Next week without fail a list of the names will be published in this column as neaJrly up to the date of publication as possible. A. new condition has arisen making it pos.slb_le f?r n:en who are earnest enough in the1r 1ncltnatton, but undecided in their pocketbook:s, to go. Charlie Waldron out- lined the scheme in chapel on Monday and as ~ result the enrollment should pick up aga1~. A~y?ne who feels that he ~ould spare the ttme 1£ 1t weren't for the additional ex- pense should talk it over with Charlie at once. . Through the Training Can1ps' Associa- tion a number of view-books of the Business Men's Cant ps o flast yea·r have been secured and distributed around on the hill. One has been left at the house or roo1ns of every group; Dr. Hale has four; two are in Silli- man Hall,; and one has been placed in the library--at least one should be available to any n1an who is interested. The pictures of the First atid Second Battalions are of the August Camp, the \hike\ being conducted northward to the Canadian border; while the pictures of the Third Battalion depict the September Can1p on which the \hike\ was to the southwest through a portion of the Adirondacks. Y. M. C. A. •t+ ················~~~* 't' 't' ..... ~.'+ AN INTERCOLLEGIATE EVENT. _\Ve are continually hearing about Platts? burg, the naval cruise, and other events which are open to college men. During the latter part of June there is an international intercollegiate event, at which representa- tives from the colleges of New England and New York, Canadian provinces, as well as from foreign colleges come together for a ten day's general get acquainted, get-pre- pared movement of international import- ance. At this conference- such speakers as John R. Matt, Sherwood Eddy, Robert E. Speer and Harry E. Fosdick are heard. Be- sides the speaking and meetings of the con- ference, the program allows considerable time for recreation-including an intercol- legiate baseball series-won last year by West Point-a track meet, tennis tourna- ments, and a \stunt\ night at which any col- lege having a delegation sufficiently large n1ay put on a \stunt.\ These events cul- minate in a bonfire, which is usually forty- five feet in height before the match is ap- plied and which burns all night. This confernce is the Northfield Student Conference, and is held in the Connecticut River Valley among the foothills of the Green mountains-a spot of great natural beauty. Last year there were 748 students present, 101 of whom were from foreign countries. This year preparations are com- pleted for a gathering still greater and bet- ter. Union had a small delegation; Hamil- ton arrived with a crowd. Last year dur- ing the stunts and cheers Union was con- spicuous by its absence. This year pros- pects seem to promise a good representative crowd. It is important that we have a good delegation, not only to maintain our inter- Continued on page 20

When you want anything at QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Quinn Delivers Free With Hasty Messengers Geo. A. Cassedy Co. Established 1850 Dealers in VICTROLAS, PIANOS, SHEET MUSIC & MUSICAL MERCHANDISE 464-466 State Street, Schenectady, New York. Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Section South College Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all Kinds of Wax Polishes 212 SOe CENTRE ST. ALBANY, N.Y. Experience-not experiment is built into every suit of Steefel Clothes Every feature of style and of tailoring bas been devel· oped according to the les .. sons learned from more than 30 years of building real clothes for real men. Yet they cost no more than or .. dinary clothes. JOE. NUSBAUM Schenectady's Leading HATTER AND HABERDASHER 336 STATE STREET. Sure fit $4to$8 Hanan $7&$8 -Smartly Styled -Peifect Workmanship :Most men, especially young men, buy their S.HOES 1 for style and quality-not for cheapness. That's why we have always insisted on smartness of design j:i,nd worthiness of workmanship ' -rather th.an mere lowness of ' price in our Shoes for Men. Patton & Hall S·OHENE10'rA.DY & SARATOGA.

- 20 THE CON·CO·RDIENSIS. ·collegiate reputation as the equal or better of such colleges as A~mherst, Williams, West Point, vV esleyan and the others, but also because many prospective college men are present at a similar conference of prep school tnen, at the same place and tin1e. What sort of delegation shaH we send this year? If you are at ·all interested in a good ten days' trip the last week of June .. consult Eddie Cameron '18, or Arthur New- n1an '18, or other members of the Christian Association cabinet, or come out Sunday night to see stereopticon slides of the con- ference and hear somethip.g from those who have been there. * * * * VESPERS. Vespers will be held, May 6, in the even- ing, instead of at 5 :00 as usual. Stereopti- con slides will be shown of Northfield scenes, and talks given by Charlie Male '13 and perhaps some college fellows. The Union College band, which made its first appearance under the direction of W al- rath '17 at the Hobart game, gave an ex- cellent account of itself and was applauded for its comn1endable work. Charlie Male, the band's founder, is affording valuable aid in the labor of rounding the organization into forn1 for its Spring work. OLD PIERROT. Thr.ough the eldritch wind Co1nes the voice of a lute Struck .mournfully and slow, An old, old lute, touclied nervously and low. And th,rough the trees, In the garden soaked With a bitter winter rain, Drags a bent old one in sadness and in pain. Through the wet he comes In his dirty white All n1ud-besmirched and torn From the weary walk down a country road . stnce morn. Old Pierrot, They listen not Nowadays to thee, For music is m.echanical and f,ree. The world is cold ·with jingling coin, Steel orchestras and such- Thy lute's too soft, too tender is thy touch. Students \\'anted Students Wanted for vacation work: demonstrating and selling new line of cooking utensils: sell for one-third price of aluminum. Liberal commission and extras. Write Dept.· DP, 609 Centre St., Jamaica Plain, Boston, Mass. TAXI Green and Gray LIMOUSINES PHONE 844 GREEN TAXICAB CO. TAXI Night and Day TOURING CARS ---------------------------~--------------------------------------------- ., PJ

Mr. L. F. Burke, Schenectady, N.Y. City of Chicago awarded us contract for 150 Model 17-E Excelsior Motorcycles. Other com- petitors were $13.00 lower each. Quality counts. EXCELSIOR MOTOR MFG. & SUPPLY. L. F. BURKE, Boston Sq., 230 So. Center Street Excelsior and Henderson Motorcycles-Bicycles and Smith Motor Wheels. ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1007 1913 E. W. MANDEVIlLE. '17 Con ... Repre•entati~e NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 19H 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie!:s insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ 2for25~· Jlshby-<JYain. Lexicon-2~m. Allie new .L\.RROW COLLARspring style. in two heights CLUETT, PEABODY &-CO. INC.MAKtRS . CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs cleat~­ ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

Spring Spring Hats Shirts Spring Clothes· This way, please, if you desire the Newest and Best in Spring Outfitting! At this Good Clothes Store you get all the style, the Finest Tailoring and the Choicest Fabrics··· The Distinctive Models that are Shown in this Store Exclusively. Spring Suits Spring Coats Come In, Look Them Over HTD 455 STATE STREET The Store That Creates---But Never Imitates Schenectady ~ Art Press ... ~· ( '

... ~- i·GJffe C ·Q· N. ~: ,c···· · o···,R·', ... ;t ~ ••• D·'~ I···E·N· ·~ .. ,·.s-~·~ ·IS :~ ~ ' - ' ! . . . c' • .. ., • • -f-.~ ~·.:·'~ .· \.... ~ . 0 • ~·· • l . ' - . ' .· . .. ¥' •• • • ' • ·~ ... ~ 'I'~ \'· '\. -- - • • ~... .~ .... _.. .. .- t . . • . . . i 0 :: l ' .~ ! : VOLUME 39 MAY II, 1916 NO. z4 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY ( .. -- -~~----~------~~~------------------~--------~

UNION UNIV'ERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE The college offers the following .u•ulerpad•te un1 graduate courses : 1. CJou•e• leadlnc to the degree of A.. B. f!MssiCAt, CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- e1u.ded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B-This course may be pur- . sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. s. «Jour•e leatU.ng to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIEN'I'IFIC CouRsE-This course offers ~atin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Oour•e leading to the degree of B. 8 .. ScntN'I'IFIC CounsE-This course is based upon the stu~ of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Cour•e leading to the degree of B. E. tl~NERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, CQmprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGLNEERING CouRst-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. EutCTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. a. Vou:r•e• lea•tng to graduate degree•• COURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF M. C. E.-This ceurse of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING ro mtGREit or M. S. in E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING To DEGJtE! o!t PH. D.- This cours~ of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address · F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L.· V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 1838-A com,plete reorganization has been effected during the past year.. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate responsibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the cburses re-arranged to conform to improved methods. With these ,changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical Colle.ge is prepared to furnish instruction which will :tneet the highest demands of modern medical education . . Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from th.e Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and. must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completton of one year's study, in a. recogniz~d colle~e or scien- tific school, of phystc·s, chemtstry, btology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N.-Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation .. There are no extra fees except for rental of m1croscopes and labor- atory breakage. . l'l'he academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All m- quiries and other communications should be ad- dressed to THOMA.S ORDWAY, M.D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the st~t~ capitol. It occupies a building wholty devoted to t!s use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. ts three years ; each year is. divided into two ~~mesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $to; tultton fee, 'Ito. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms o~ seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information., address: ALF\RI<:D B. H UESTED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25c. DRY CLEANIN'G- AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate (. - - vc = UN TC Pro c tak€ urd; of t Foll atte Thi: fifty and side T cha1 AluJ grac alun com Cc Jun<: bate in tt the take o'clc

The Concordiensis VOL. 39 MAY 11, 1916 NO. 24 UNION'S 120TH COMMENCEMENT TO BE G.REATEST IN HER HISTORY Program Sho·ws Five Days of Campus Celebration. ALUMNI NIGHT FEATURED. New Seating Scheme Arranged And Pro- gram Augmented. Commencement exercises which will take place next month were considered Sat- urday· afternoon at the sen1i-annual meeting of the graduate council of Union College. Following the meeting the council members attended a dinner at the Mohawk Hotel. Thirty-eight of the fifty members of the fifty members of the council were present and F. B. Richards '88, of Glens Falls, pre- sided. The council favored by resolution the change in the constitution of the ,General Alumni Association which would allow non- graduates as well as graduates to vote for alumni trustees. This election takes place at commencement time. Commencement will open on Saturday, June 10, with the extemporaneous prize de- bate and junior and sophomore prize oratory in the ~ollege chapel. Vesper services under the <?ld N ott elm in Jackson's garden will take place the following afternoon at 5 o'clock. In the evening Dr. Charles Alex- ander Richmond, the president of the college, will preach the baccalaureate sern1on to the graduating class. As in former years the services will be at the First Pvesbyterian Church in lower .Union Street. Grove and class day exercises under the direction of the graduating class will take place Monday afternoon in Jackson's gar- den. At the close of the exercises there will be a public n1eeting of the class of '86 at the chapel. The class will present lantern slide views and brief historical sketches of the college as it was thirty years ago. There will be a supper at the Mohawk Golf Club at 6 o'clock. The commencen1ent reception and ball will take place at 9 o'clock in the alumni . gymnast urn. Tuesday will be alumni day and the busi- est day of the week for graduates and under- graduates. The events will include a cos- tume parade of the re-union classes, review of classes by the Waldron cup committee, annual meeting of the General Alutnni As- sociation, alumni luncheon in the gytnna- sium, meetings of the Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi societies, president's reception, baseball game between Union and Colum- bia and the program of alumni night. All four classes have appointed comtnittees for the preparing of the ''stunts\ to be given. Alumni night will be the big night, as is has always been. This year, however, on account o.f the confusion in previous years, \ .

10 THE CONCORDIENSlS. the program will be simplified. There will be seats built to accommodate everyone. The parade will be more glorious and spec- tacular than ever before, as elaborate plans are·being completed. W .J. Smith '99, will assume the responsibility and he is scheming to pull off something entirely new which is being kept a secret. The costumes will be unusua\ly magnificent since there is going to be a great deal of competition for the prize. The \Old Guard\ division will be a special feature this year as it was last year. All members of former re-union classes are urged to march in their old costumes to make this parade successful. The singing con- test by the undergraduate classes for the Ludlow cup will take place as usual. A band of 40 pieces has been secured to make the evening lively. With the \Ode to Old Union\ the day will be closed. NEW YORK UNIVERSITY IS COMING WITH STRONG SQUAD Captain Pfau One of Season's Best Catch- ers. HAGGBLOOM STAR PITCHER. A Veteran of Several Years, Is In Mid- ,Season Form. The graduating exercises will take place Wednesday morning at the First Presby- terian Church. The chancellor's address, which will be an important part of the pro- gram, will be given by Myron T. Herrick, former ambassador to France, and ex-gov- ernor of Ohio. PRESS CLUB BANQUETS. Hauenstein Toastmaster at Enjoyable Feast. The annual banquet of the Press Club was held at the Crown on Wednesday evening, May 3. 1'he nutnber present was small but the enthusiasm displayed was in inverse ratio. Hauenstein, '16, presided as toastmaster. Speeches dealing with the general scheme and detail of the club's work in the past and future, were made by the re- tiring president, Soler, 16, the president- elect, Chapman, '17, and Dr. Stewart, the faculty adviser. New York University will oppose the Garnet on Alexander Field Saturday at 3 :30 P. M. N. Y. U. comes confident of adding another victory to its season's list, and will be supported in this endeavor by a strong body of rooters, both undergraduates and vicinity alumni. N. Y ~ U. has been playing good baseball this season, as indicated by their recent \1-6 victory over the strong Swarthmore nine and the close games played with Rutgers and Dartmouth, in each of which contests -r\' being defeated by a stngle run. They have vanquished Hamilton who will be seen on Alexander Field on May 30th. Haggbloom, last year's star moundsman for the Violet, is working in mid-season form and will probably oppose Gene Hummer Saturday. Captain Pfau, directing his team from behind the plate, is one of the season's best college catchers. Waters will fill the shoes of Eagan at first, the latter, a field as well as baseball man, being entered for the intercollegiates, which will take place on South Field, the home of the Violet squad. N. Y. U.'s star outfielder is Mc- Culloch who is a veteran center fielder and who is now having his best year. Draper and Connell will appear in left and right field respectively. They are new men this year but are playing like old-timers. The Violet line-up will probably be: Haggbloom, Wolf, of Cohen, p; Captain Pfau, c; Waters, lb; Tettleman, 2b; Keat- ing, ss; Mendelsohn or Cannel, 3b; A. Con- nel, rf; McCulloch, cf; Draper, lf. \i s. Fn Fr( E. 1 Jur Ge, tor An I Ec B . . tne Hsl B. Cb So M. Fr Ac Fr E. Bi A1 E1 Gc 3a ]t H D G p] p H E M

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 ••••••••••••••••••• • + ~~ EXAMINATION SCHEDULES. + ••••••••••••••••••• GENERAL FINALS. Wednesday, May 31, 9:00 A. M.-English 4, B. S. Calculus, Pre-medic, biology, Fresh. Latin, Fresh. B. E. Elem. French, Fresh. B. E. Int. French, Soph. B. E. Chern., E. E. 2, Junior B. E. Mechanics; 2 P. M. Soph. Greek. Thursday, June 1, 9:00 A.M.-Junior German 3a, Junior Greek B, American Hist., Mineralogy and Geology, Physiology, Coph. B. E. English, Jun- ior B. E. Law; 2:00 P. M.-Junior French 3, Qual. Anal., Coph. Latin, Soph. B. S. Biology. Friday, June 2, 9:00 A. M.-Soph. B. E. German, Economics, Diff. Equations, FretSh. A. B. and Ph. B. Math., Fresh. B. E. Surveying, Electrical Mach- inery. 2:00 P. M.-Spanish, Cop h. Academic Eng- lish. Saturday, June 3, 9:00 P. M.-Phyysics, Fresh. B. E. and B. S. Math., E. E. 2'3, Route Surveying. Monday, June 5, 9:00 A. M.-Logic, General Chemistry, German 3, Soph. Academic German, Soph. Academic French, Fresh. B. E. Drawing, M. E. 2, Highways. 2:00 P. M.-Quant. Analysis. TuetSday, June 6, 9:00 A. M.-European Hist., Fresh. Academic, Intermediate German, Fresh. Academic Intermediate French, Fresh. Greek, Fresh. B. E. English, Thermodynamics, Soph. B. E. Math. 2:00 P. M.-Soph. A. B. and Ph. B. Biology. Wednesday, June 7, 9:00 A. M.-Junior Latin, Argumentation, Soph. History, Fresh. B. E. Elementary German, Fresh. B. E. Intermediate German, Soph. B. E. DetS. Geometry, Geodesy. Thursday, June 8, 9:00 A. M.-Junior French 3a, Junior Greek A, Fresh. Acaden1ic English, Junior B. E. Chemistry. SENIOR FINALS. Monday, May 22, 9:00 A. M.-French, American Hist., Mineralogy and Geology, E. E. 4, B. E. Design. 2:00 P. M.-German, Greek A, Municipal Government. Tuesday, May 23-, 9:00 A. M.-Hist. of Philoso- phy, European Hist., M. E. 4, B. E. Law. 2:00 P. M.-Latin, English 7, Diff. Equations. Wednesday, May 24, 9:00 P. M.-Spanish, Hist. of Education, Qual. Analysis, Organic Chern., E. E. 34, Administration, Water Supply. 2:00 P. M.-Academic Economics, Advance Calc. Thursday, May 25, 9:00 P. M.-English 9, Ad- vance Psychology, E. E. 24, B. E. Math. 2:00 P. M.-Quant. Analysis. Friday, May 26, 9:00 P. M.-Eociology, Econ- omic Geology, E. E. 14, B. E. Chern. 2:00 P. M.- Greek B, Advanced Argumentation, Math. Phy'5icS, Building Constr. W. D. RYAN, G. E. CO., SPEAKS ON EXPOSITION. Had Charge of the Lighting at the Panama- Pacific Celebration. W. D' arcy Ryan of the General Electric Company, who had charge of the lighting of the Panama-Pacific Exposition, showed stereoptican views of the exposition build- ings last Thursday evening at a meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engi- needs and Society of Engineers of Eastern New York in the College Gym nasi urn. \iVith an interesting subject and with a collection of some of the most marvelous lantern slides ever shown in Schenectady, ]\1r. Ryan conjured up to a large audience the departed glory of the exposition, now al- n1.ost totally demolished. The lecturer, be- cause of his close connection with the illum- ination of the exposition, was enabled to bring before the public in an entirely un- technical V\ray the manner inwhich the al- most n1agical result of lighting was pro- duced. In perfectly colored slides, rendering accurately the real appearance of the build- ings and streets, Mr. Ryan first had thrown on the screen the appearance of various parts of the exposition by daylight, and ilnmed- iately afterwards the artificial illumination after dusk had fallen. The n1ain feature of the lighting, according to Mr. Ryan was the fact that all the illun1ination radiated from hidden sources which had been ar- rang-ed by the eng-ineers with a view to elim- inat1ng- ~11 g-lare anrl unpleasantness that n1ight resu1 t fron1 strong unprotected light.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. WILLIAMS DEFEATS UNION IN LUCKY SEVENTH INNING. Breaks Go Against Garnet as Goff Relieves Jenkins. Michler was hit by Goff, Seibert tripled and Clark doubled to left, but was called out at third. In the ninth inning Union scored a lone run, bringing its total up to 6 runs. MAY CLOUTS OUT TRIPLE. Knocks in Three Runs on Timely Hit in Third. Williams, fresh from her defeat by Vir- ginia, vanquished our nine on Saturday by a score of 9-6, at Williamstown. Young started in the box for Williams while Jenkins worked for Union. Young, while working, proved somewhat erratic, and but for the good fielding behind him would have possibly fared worse. U n~on apparently had the game well in hand, up to the seventh -inning, the box score being 5-2 with Union in the lead. Union was first to cross home plate, scor- ing three runs in the opening half of the third on a base on balls, two singles and a triple by _May. Williams also pulled across one run in this inning on two hits and a stolen base. In the sixth Union added two more runs while \iVilliams added one. Unions' runs were the result of a single by Rosekrkanz, an error, a sacrifice, a fielder's choice and a double steal with Rosekrans scoring. At this stage of the game Goff replaced Jenkins, Dawson taking him out because he did not wish to overwork his arm, because of only recently recovering from an illness. With the score 5-2 at the end of the sixth inning and Jenkins out, there was a sudden change and when the smoke had cleared away at the end of the seventh, the score stood Williams 7 and Union 5. Goff hit one rnan, passed three, allowed three hits and let a wild pitch loose for a total of five runs It is not unsportsmanlike to say that the misfortunes of the seventh inning were more due to \incompetent umpiring than to unduly poor work on the part of Homer Goff. Sev- eral of the Williams players freely expressed this opinion after the game. The score: UNION. ab. r. h. Moynihan, 3b. _4 1 1 Zimmer, cf. ___ 4 1 1 May, 1£. ______ 4 1 1 Collison, ss. ___ 4 1 0 Beyrl, cf _____ 3 0 1 Hathaway, rf. _3 0 1 Rosekrans, 2b_.4 1 1 Steele, 1b _____ 3 1 1 *Green _______ 1 0 0 Jenkins, p ____ 2 0 0 xHummer --·--1 0 0 Goff, p. _______ 1 0 0 Totals ____ 34 6 6 *Batted for Steele. xBatted for Jenkins. - WILLIAMS. ab. r. h. Statler, lf. _____ 5 2 2 Michler, rf, c. _3 1 2 Seibert, cf ____ 4 1 1 C~ark, ss. _____ 4 2 2 Brumb'h, 1 b. __ 4 1 2 Dunn, 2b. ____ 3 0 0 Howland, 3b. __ 3 0 2 Powell, c. _____ 3 0 1 Young, p. _____ 3 1 0 Jones, 2b. ____ 1 1 0 Radley, rf. ____ o 0 0 po. a. 0 4 4 0 3 0 1 0 9 2 0 0 3 1 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 24 7 po. a. 0 0 0 0 1 0 5 1 9 3 0 3 0 0 10 2 2 3 0 1 0 0 e. 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 e. 0 0 0 0 0 1 l 0 2 0 0 and the game. Then Williams, not satisfied with this, went after Goff again in the eighth inning. Totals ____ 33 9 12 27 13 4 Unic Wit S1 Fir~ . lllS, Thr hits Sta1 han -B W 'l L . ' lUll: SL. l eng tre1 var me ] pe< Fa wo Le Cl: Sc· c. to1 ne D1 R< K. ll1 sr tv pl fil ' v:

THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 Score by Innings: INTER-CLASS TRACK MEET UPON MOVING-UP DAY. Union __ . ___ :.0 0 3 0 0 2 0 0 1-6 Williams ___ o 0 1 0 0 1 5 2· *---9 Struck out-By Young, 8 ; by Jenkins, 9. First base on balls-· Off Young, 3 ; off J enk- ins, 2; off Goff, 4. Sacrifice hit-Seibert. Three base hits-Seibert, May. Two base hits-Clerk, Steele. Stolen bases-Michler, Statles, Clark, Rowlands, Powell, Moyni- han, 3 ; Steele, Rosekrans. Hit by pitcher -By Powell (Jenkins); by Powell (Goff). Wild pitch, Goff. Hits-Off Jenkins, 5 in 6 innings; of Goff, I( in 2 innings. SLAZENGER TOURNAMENT STARTS Active: interest is being taken in the' Slaz- enger tennis tournament, about fifty en- trees having been made. Members of the varsity squad who have entered the tourna- ment will be handicapped. Following is the entry list with handicap- ped names in black type: .Upp, Rupermann, Fallis, Brandow, L. P. Brown, Stein, Griz- wold, Vought, B. F. Allen, Lowell, Genung, Lester, Y ounie, Roche, Clapp, Landreth, Clark, Beckett, H. H. Brown, Calhoun, Schmidt, Churchill, King, B. P. Reed, Levy, C. F. Brown, Palmer, Anker, Talbot, Pres- ton, Potter, Porter, Frank, Pearsons, Ben- nett, Gillespie, Hulshizer, Heatly, Girting, Dorlon, McCreary, Loughlin, McCauley, Rosenthal, Monte, Fisher, Soler. _______ _ KAPPA ALPHA SOCIETY. HOLDS FACULTY RECEPTION The l{appa Alpha Society entertained the n1embers of the faculty at a reception and smoker on Friday evening, May 5. Between twenty and twenty-five of the faculty were present. Owing to the non-arrival of the North- field lantern slides there was no vesper ser- vice in the college chapel on Sunday. ~o be One of Day's Important Features ENTRIES CLOSE MAY 15. Prelims and Se·mi-Finals on Wednesday, May 17. As usual, one of Moving-up Day's most important features will be the annual inter- class track meet. The meet is always the occasion of keen rivalry between the classes .and, as entries are being made in consider- able number, this year's battle bids fair to be a hot one. The meet will be put under way at 1 :30 o'clock sharp, in order to have the £eld cleared for the ball game with St. Johns. Competition is to be strictly limited to men who have been in training for at least ten days before the meet. The entries, which are to be made with Dr. McComber, close on Monday, May 15th. Detailed arrangements follow: List of events: 100, 220 and 440 yard dashes, 1 and 2 tnile runs, 120 high hurdles, 220 low hurdles, running high and broad jumps, pole vaule, 16 pound shot put and hammer throw. Scoring: 5, 3, 2, 1. Pries: Silver medals for first, bronze medals for seconds, ribbons for thirds. Preliminary heats and semi-finals of the 100 yard dash, 220 dash, 120 high hurdles, and 2·20 low hurdles will be held on Wed- nesday, May l'{th, at 4:30 P. M. Union was entirely outclassed by Am- herst in tennis last Saturday. The Garnet fell by a score of 6-0. Some satisfaction accrues from the fact that the Atnherst team is one of the strongest in the collegiate world. '·'

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., aoS Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Ralph Knight '17 ---------- PoSi Upsilon House MANAGING EDITOR. Fawcett W. Porter '17 ---------- Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR. William C. Loughlin '17, Phi Gamma Delta House LITERARY EDITOR David F. Chapman .'17 --------- Delta Phi House ASST. LITERARY EDITOR Rudolph W. Schwartz '17 ---- 37 Glenwood Blvd ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. G. Carey, Jr., '18 E. L. Newell '18 F. G. Bascom '18 S W. Talbot '18 H. L. Cook '18 REPORTORIAL STAFF. H. H. Newton '19 Adam Bailey '19 G. D. Rosenthal '19 W. R. Barnett '19 C A. Brind, Jr., '19 A. B. Dougal '19 E. J. Griswold '19 K. H. Gorham '19 V. H. Scales '19 H·oward A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscriptton: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. 1E~itnrtttla As we write, the Imperial Bache's last scrap of paper has arrived and metropolis editors have dived into the depths of the dip- THE lon1atic parley, con1ing up with a NEW reasonably clear conception of what PATRIOT- it is all about. Evidently we are ISM. still going to watchfully wait, but not with hopeful placidness as of old. Whether we tell Von Bernstorff to pack up and leave seems to depend upon the way the undersea captains take_ to heart the new orders which may or n1ay not have been given them. Von Bernstorff may remain tranquil just about as long as his Vaterland strictly applies the ruletS of cruiser warfare to submarine operations, as it loudly professes it will do from now on. He n1ay gather together his belonging'S on the day the Vaterland moves back one inch towards its old policy of indescriminate murder. After that might, and n1ight not, cotne war. Meanwhile , the New Patriotism (which Dr. Richmond spoke of on his return from Washing- ton) is rolling over the country. There is being a huge revival of respect for the flag, and this is going to develope into the realization of indiv- idual responsibility-responsibility to \be pre- pared\ to serve it in the most efficient as well as the mooSt loyal way when someone tlirows mud. Preparedness has crowded out the weath- er as the foundation of all conversations. Patriot- ism is creeping into our most private thoughts and activities; it is becoming one of our funda- mental emotions-. which, there is no getting around it, i>S sotnething new to our generation, and which is a grand good thing. Men about the campus have talked more during the past week about the U. S. navy gunnery aver- ages and the showing of our troops in the scramble after Villa than they have of Jenks's chance against Williams. It is beginning to >Sink into their minds that it isn't all a big dream- that it isn't wildly fanciful to imagine a hum in the sky of a night, a crazy rushing about in the streets as little black things drop down and blast out whole sides of buildings, bodies flattened out on the sidewalkoS without arms and heads. A good many of them will laugh at this with a \Pooh! There wouldn't be any fighting here- they'd be busy enough at home.\ And they would add, \We'd do our fighting with money.\ A year ago they would have also laughed, but this time with an \Oh! Listen to him! Zeppelins in Schenectady! Why, a month after we went into it they'd be singing the Star Spangled Ban- ner on the Kaiser's front stoop!\ Which shows that we have ceatSed prancing around in the dark and have come out into the sunlight where we n1ay pick our steps without tripping over some- thing and breaking our necks. We do not look upon the navy any longer as the invincible fleets which swept up the water at Manila and San- tiago, but as an ordinary flotilla which would stop part of the enemy in its tracks at Charle>S- ton while the rest steatned merrily through the shadow of the Singer building. We remember that the army swooped grandly up San Juan hill, but know that it would probably never get tip Dead Man's hill We know this, and it is breeding within us the New Patriotism. With the watchword \Be Prepared,\ the New Patriotism is rollicking through the nation. It breaks out in many different forms, all of which are bent towards the purging out of all bom- bastic vainness and its just-as-unfortunate op- posite, cool indifference, and towards spreading the realization that the flag i>S slipping down the pole a little and might even fall off entirely son1e one of these days while we were too weak to hole actly v York' Plat1 the Nc naval < coast c Seve of the mer Cc enliste they v countr an int peace drillin Minut men , way t it hlll Well, at Ph thing the .rc ter ec to lee then- they· becau We bred heart lined years chap< as de fight Othe even Unio of a: now- Se ieost . tng us al

THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 to hold it up. Marjorie caught the new spirit ex- actly when she mailed her ten cents to the New York Tribune. Plattsburgh was the happiest material form of the New Patriotism. Happier rStill will be the naval cruises thios summer, for we are a great sea- coast country. Seventeen Union students and five metnbers of the faculty have to date enlisted in the sum- mer camps. Should we arSk these men why they enlisted, we doubt if any of them would say that they were simply offering their services to their country-for the New Patriotism is somewhat of an intangible thing, and in this American day of peace and plenty we find it strange to compare drilling at Plattsburg with the drilling of the Minute Men on Concord Common. These Union men would anoswer that it was a good healthy way to spend a vacation. Why don't they spend it hunting or fishing or playing baseball then? Well, they would answer, the stuff one learns at Plattsburg is a good thing to know. A good thing to know when someone is fussing with the .ropes on which our flag is strung and the bet- ter educated tnen of the country are called upon to lead in its defence. A good thing to know then-otherwise absolutely needless. Whether they fully realize it or not, men go to Plattsburg because they are patriots. We pride ourselves here at Union that we have - bred a lion's share of the country's patriot'S. Our hearts warmed towards the old soldiers that lined up before the chapel door last Spring. Fifty years ago some of them walked out of that chapel, leaving behind the college life which was as dear to them as it itS to us, and went away to fight for whichever flag they called their own. Others of them who were older left perhaps even dearer ties to go and fight beside their Union brethren. It isn't wildly fanciful to think of all this happening again three months from now-or three weeks, for that matter. Seventeen students to Plattsburgh. A health- ieost and cheapest of vacations-and the satisfy- ing of the New Patriotism which has found us all. Seventeen. It ought to be seventy! @{) ~jJl( .-o .... THE NATIONAL ANTHOLOGY. I. Robert Lansing. I sat before my desk, sick, half crazy, Straining to squeeze one more little note from my jaded brain, Curled up and withered like a last year's cab- bage. One more note, one more juggling and quib- bling of word.g That would vehemently champion the cause of Right and Justice- The cause of the American people- And yet skilfully press it not too strongly. Well I knew, and well knew Woodrow Wilson, How pitifully shallow were our demands- How woefully unprepared we were To grab the Imperial Boche by the collar And say, \Now then, you be reasonable!\ I cursed the German, there before my desk, Called him a damned low murderer And looked about me shuddering, fearing some- one heard. I picked up my pencil and wrote laborously, Erased with an oath, and wrote again. The sweat pricked my forehead, And collected and drizzled down into my eyes, Making them burn. Then something snapped quiedy back in my neck; The room flickered like a broken movie film. I saw red * * * then black * * and slept. * * * * * Oh, I didn't die then-not for tnany years- But I never wrote another note. The doctors .ghook their heads and said, \Too bad!'' And locked me in a little room with quilts upon the walls, For the one high high and urgent purpose of tny life Was to n1emorize, verbatim et literatim, Webster's Unabridged Dictionary!

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. One hardly realizes what an incalculable con- venience trolley service is until the employes dis- covers it and gives us a striking, so-to-speak,. idea of it. At the Blue Gate today, we fiddled away two hours and nine minutes peering about for a car bound across the terrace and finally, as usual, went our way on foot suspecting nothing- but the very minute we read about it on the knick-press bulletin we knew there was some- wrath. \See here, woman; don't you swear at me!'~ And while she was :figuring out that one, we were crawling down a manhole to safety. Foolishly, we tried to repeat upon the next tag- lady, but she gummed thingtS completely by put- ting on the tag first and explaining afterwards. For sufferin' Polui1d, Saturday, the sixth must have been Der Tag. thing wrong. Had a car actually wandered by while we wait- ed, we would have been in the state of 'mind to suspect anything from simple strike to bloody anarchy. SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. Ethel Barrymore, who introduced her new Featherbloom petticoat (it flares) at the Van last week, gave us the impression that she was very much where tShe ought not to be. Her type is the emotional \'Emma McChesney,\ while it has perhaps a half dozen emotional .moments, is es- sentially a comedy. The Singers Midgets, who will week it at the Mudhawk, are not as tremendously important as their billing would have us believe but are, withal~ worth seeing. We happened to cross their path at the Winter Garden not long ago. Their chief appeal to us that they appeared more as young- sters in grown-up roles than as actually more mature men and women. Of midget acts in our ken, they are the most versatile and entertain- . 1ng. The Garden of Allah sand-stormed at the Van again last week, and, as usual, filmed the bald- headed row with dust of the Sahara. As a spec- tacle the G. of A. is notable. Proctor's movies are a pleasing relief from their sad vaudev'Hle. Charl~·e Chaplin was as good in \Carmen\ as he has ever been-we are simply tiring of him. We reserve judgment on the Van's summer stock. We h~ve not seen them. Their reper- toire is hardly imposing. Sneaking by that Schenectady institution which prowls about on street corners with an ominously rattling pasteboard box and a fist-full of tags i.s hopelessly impossible. Yet we defied the gods once and got away with it. \Buy a tag, oh, P-L-E-A-S-E buy a tag!\ moaned the young lady. We approached with our most philanthropical stnile-\Tags? Ah, yes, just so. And what for?\ \Sufferin' Polund!\ Instantly we feigned great Far and wide has spread the glorious name of Union. Two lady SchenectadiantS were strolling by south sections recently .. They stopped in sur- prise before the tablet enscribed, \South Col- lege.\ \Well well,'' mused one of them, \I al- ways thought this was Union College.\ NITE. +++++++++++++++++++ + + + + + \SUB-FROSH.\ tt• A. G. L. '18 + + Last week with Percy Fairyface I saw the University, And many curious sights there were And things of great diversity. I saw the N ott Memorial Hall, I saw the bright green caps, But the most peculiar things I saw Were the freshman-soph'more scraps! They mauled and scratched each other With grunts and other wretched cries And I, myself, there counted No less than ten black eyes. Such things exasperate me so, Much worse than chapel-bolting, To see those nasty boys in mud, Was awfully revolting! Upon my soul! I do declare t I'll never go to college there! ! ., IJ ' . \ '~ (• + tl + + + + 1 (\the ~ .. cc .-} mu + ua1 tt• sel + ~lot + B1 'To 1 Y< has 1 V\Titb C01 was the tanc ofp I was cha Thi litt] tho po'r son not fro: cot \st . tn 1 litE pr( cot ed M qt

., IJ ' . \ '~ THE CONCORDIENSIS. 17 ••••••••••••••••••• ~ + + + ~ ++++++++++++++++++++ + THE FORUM. + + \FORWARD MARCH TO PLATTSBURG\ + + + +t+ by Ned Moore, Psi U House. + + This column does not necessarily express + +t• • (\ the sentiments of the editors of THE CON- + + •lt + •t• + .:• + +t• ~· (• +t• + + + ·~ + + ~ .. CORDIENSIS. We heartily welcome com- + This week a few fig-ures have been col- .-:. munications from alumni and undergrad- (• + uates but, in doing so, reserve the right of + lected to show the progress of the training + selection and deletion. + camp movement. Enrollments are coming + + in faster than ever, but the Association ~lot + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + wants to double the number that have sign- ed up to the lst of May by June 1st . At the Plattsburgh camps alone the fol- lowing enrollments are reported to May 1st: BETTER THAN FIVE YEARS AGO. 'To the Editor of the CONCORDIENSIS: . Your editorial on \Mountain Climbing\ has been read with interest. I agree heartily V\rith your statement that \we see in today's CONCORDIENSIS a better paper that it was five years ago,\ for at that time I was the editor. However, it still has some dis- tance to climb before it becomes the kind of paper that Union College ought to have. I believe now, as I did at the time when I was editor, that the CONCORDY should be changed into a semi-weekly newspaper. This need not mean \the extinction of what little literary life does still remain,\ for even though a literary magazine could not be sup- po,rted as a separate paper, there is no rea- son why worthy literary productions could not be published in a newspaper, or why from time to time a literary supplement could not be issued. A great deal of the \stuff\ which the Concordy has published in in times past has been unworthy of the name literature. Such matetrial should be sup- pressed, and articles of real literary merit could still be published in the Concord y in newspaper form. Respectfully yours, Walter Dudley Cavert (1911). Subjects for Junior essays have been post- ed in the library. The essays fall due on May 31st. Students in English 4 are not re- quired to write them. Senior Division. June ------------------·------------ 954 July -------------------------------1,570 August ------------------·----------1,849 September ------------------------- 450 Junior Division. July --.-----------~ _________________ 1,359 Total ---------------------------6,182 Up to May 4th, 72 are from Schenectady as a whole. Of this 72 the number from college is 22, as follows: Faculty. Stanley M. Chase, Edward E. Hale, Morton C. Stewart, John N. Vedder, Charles N. Waldron. Students. J. B. Bassett (graduate), John Bennett, Albert R. Bloomhower, Francis J. Campbell, W. Gibson Carey, Wilfred Dalton, Charles J. De Laplante, Charles De La V ergne, Porter G. Fisher, J. F. Genung, Robert N. Landreth, Bernadotte Lester, Charles T. Lester, David B. Little, Theodore D. Palm- er, Van Ness Phillip, Schuyler Vought. Everyone can help in getting more re- cruits. One factor which should encourage recruiting is the broadening of the qualifica- tions in the Senior Division: \All citizens, of good moral character, between 21 and 45, both inclusive, who have qualifications or experience equivalent to a High School Edu- cation. '\rhat is, men whose record indi- cates efficiency and initiative.\

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ++++++++++++++++++++ + + + COLLEGE MEETING, MAY 8, 1916. + + + •••••••••••••••••••• Captain Hummer reported for the baseball team and was given an ovation. He told of the game with Williams which Tesulted in an 9-6 defeat for Union, and expressed the general public opinion concerning this game. It was generally conceded that Union was given poor justice by the umpire. Cap- tain Hummer announced team practice for every day this week, in preparation for the game with New York University next Satur- day. Joe Soler reported for the tennis team in the absence of Captain Girling. The team lost to Amherst by a 6-0 score. Mr. Soler mentioned the unusual quality of the Am- herst team which put up such a good game against Harvard, and showed that the Union team were not as poor as the score might indicate. President Glenn announced that the Stu- dent Secretary and an alumnus member of the Athletic Board were to be elected at this meeting. Prof. Opdyke explained the requirements for the Student Secretary of the Board, and the expiration of the term of Mr. Philip T. Hill, the present alumni representative. On President Glenn's call for nominations for secretary, Clarence Bull, Harold Sam- monds and Arnold Hooper were named. Upon vote by ballot the count was: Bull, 49; Sammonds, 48 ; Hooper, 44. Captain Mallen of the track team an- nounced practice for every day during the week, in preparation for the meet with R. P. I., Saturday, May 13th, and with New York University, on Saturday, May 20th. He also announced. that a local inter-class track meet would take place soon, and re- quested that the classes elect captains and hand their entries to Dr. McComber im~ mediately. President Glenn calleg for nominations for the alumni representative on the Athletic Board, and the following were nominated: Philip T. Hill, Harry Wilson, Charles L. Hecquembourg and Harold E. Starbuck. On first ballot the men received the follow- ing number of votes : Hill, 35 ; Wilson, 39 ; Hecqquembourg, 36 ; Starbuck, 33. Nat Finch announced a proposed change adopted by the Terrace Council, and recom- mended that it be discussed at this time: \Resolved That the number of men from each class taking part in the cane rush, be lin1ited to ten.\ Mr. Finch moved that this resolution be adopted by the Student Body. Foster Brown proposed that this motion be laid on the table for one week, and when his motion was carried, explained in detail the circumstances surrounding the proposi- tion of this motion. The reports of the tellers on the ballot- ing were then given: For Student Secretary, Bull, 71; Sam- monds, 65. Bull elected. For Alumni Representative, Hecquem- bourg, 82 ; Wilson, 58. Hecquembourg elect- ed. Foster Brown announced a meeting of the Honor Court to take place Monday evening, for the election of officers. Downs announced a meeting of the Dram- atic Club, for Monday evening, to elect of- ficers. Glenn announced a meeting of the Senior Class for Tuesday noon. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and approved. The business of the meeting was inter- spersed with songs by the assembly. Sophotnore electives for Junior work are to be registered during the week of May 8-13 with Prof. Morland K.ing. ; !) . -~~ '4 I ! ' l, ., l : ~ I ! I I { ; I ' ; i ., TRACK The t off Frid 100 y: '17. . ' sec Time 1 second, Final h third, 1' Quar Morris4 Tin1e, ' One- Moore Thn: second One '16 · se ' time, Lo~ Hyatt Sho third, 0 sop Wi' Why An~ I Bu 0 gl, Fo Your D€ S<: adm antr

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 19 TRACK TRY -OUTS HELD FOR RENSSELAER MEET The try-outs for the R. P. I. meet came off Friday afternoon. The results follo~: '! 100 yard dash-First heat, first, Morr1son ; '17 ; second, Moora, '19 ; third, Barnett '19 ; . ,' Time 10.3 ; second heat, first, Mallen '16 ; .~ second, Taylor '18; Downs '1'1. Time, 11. Final heat, first, Morrison; second, Mallen; i ., third, Moora. Time. 10. Quarter mile-First, Stebbins '19; second, Morrison; third, Moore; fourth, Newman. Tin1e, 54.3. One-half mile-First, Stebbins; second, Moore; third, McGarty. Time, 2 :07. Three-quarters mile-First, Phillip '19; second, Greene '19. Time, 3 :44. One and one-half miles-First, Newton '16 ; second, Harvey '17; third, McLean '.18 ; / time, 8, 8 :7, 8 :13. Low hurdle, 220 yards-Mallen, Lyman, Hyatt. Time, 28, 21 :4, 20 :3. Shot-First, Bowman; second, Young; third, Lounsburg. Distance, 40 feet 3 inches. \AFTER BLENHEIM.\ 0 sophomore whose eyes do glint, With battered nose a-bleeding, Why strewst thou 'round this verdant tint And is't the grass, thou'rt feeding? I'd hardly care to tell, said he, But 'twas a famous victory! 0 glum-faced frosh, your dire estate For us needs no translation, Your shattered limbs and broken pates Defy all computation! And it's a cinch for us to see, It was a famous victory 1 A. G. Southey '18. •••••••••••••••••••• + + + + + Y. M. C. A. + ••••••••••••••••• The new Y. M. C. A. cabinet is very busy with its Spring work . Among the tasks which are under way at present, is the securing of the assistance of fifty men to co-operate in the Association work next year. The committee in charge of this work has secured a number of men al- ready. The Student's Employment Bureau is hard at work securing vacation positions for Union men. A number of positions have already been filled. The entire cabinet is co-operating in secur- ing a large delegation of men to go to the Northfield Conference. About ten men have already declared their intention of go- ing, and several more are as yet undecided, but probably will be in attendance. The Advisory Board has allowed a pay- ment of part of the expenses of each man who attends, and in this way has aided in. securing men for the delegation. HALFWAY LAND. The bards that were, and those that be Delight to sing the songs Of Slumberland and Vision-Lake And dreams of Elfin tlirongs. But there's a land that's like a star, And yet it isn't half so far. A land where fancy's wholly free And still volition enters in, And we can guide our fleeting thoughts To weave a fabric e'er so thin. Several Union men took the exams for admittance to the New York School of Phil- anthropy, which were held on May 6th. Caprice has there no wish so sweet, But wished, he finds it all complete. Fairer than Slumberland, the Fair, But situated-halfway there. A. G. L. '18.

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. + + + + + + + + tot• + + + + + + + + (+ + time is indescribably lovely; great armsful + + of fleecy whiteness, tinted in the morning + SMOKE + light with the faintest pearl-grey and edged + By \·Q.\ -+ with momentary touches of opal flame, burst + + up suddenly, magically_, and one fully ex- + + + + + •l:• + + + +t• + + {+ + + +t• + +t• + pects to see merge a wonderful one who may tu1rn as miraculous a diamond as did There are many things which I love-- Tyltyl when the chur-ch yard changed to Spring mornings, Winter sunsets over vast flowers and his child lips spoke the tremend- open fields of amethyst tinted snow, long ous words \There are no dead.\ Then as the Autumn days when rain falls unceasingly and smoke reaches higher and fades, the dark the walks are stained with the prints of soak.- of the hills across the frozen river appears ed leaves from the maples and elms. All through it and suggested tints of purple these are beautiful;. the sweet sadness of flash f01r a moment and disappear. Aft~r a Spring, a sadness which is inexplicable, a little these titanic blowings cease and the longing for something, it is not always pos- stnoke goes straight u.p in the still air and sible to dete,rmine what. It is apt to be a vanishes. There is all the tremendousness longing for the road; a wild vagabondage of a new day in these clouds of smoke which siezes on the body that sets it a walking out innumerable trains and chimneys expel in the to the meadows where sensitive ferns are morning. They fade, and some people might lifting faint fiddle-heads to a deceptive sun; draw an analogy but I shall not. Beauty to the hills where sweetness more delicate does not last forever; if it did we would not than all the attars of the East floats from appreciate it. We love a beautiful melody mountain laurel and hepatica and arbutus most the first time we hear it. and trillium. Through those strange Spring So much for smoke in the sharpness and days we watch the yellow-green covering slight exaggeration of a winter morning. the brown of dead leaves on the forest floo·r. Smoke at noon is distinctly different. The Ferns, fragile little things, paint the rocks of mind apt to be so sweetly childish as to with a faint verdure. 'I'here the thread of a atmosphere is not the same, nor is one's state cataract spatters pearls day-long upon its see great genii in the nacreous smoke, as one edges, long filaments of bladder fern droops may at dawn. There is a calm contentment, and quiver in the breathings of the water- especially in summer, about smoke at noon fall. And so the earth is beautiful when life as it lifts straight upward to heaven. The is a-bourgeoning. whistles blow and I like to hear them. In But there is one source of enjoyment the country, what is more soothing in certain which the country little affords and with mental conditions than to hear at noon a far- which the city is most lavish-that is smoke. off whistle blowing? The sound is mellowed From my window up here on the hill I can as it comes dwn the valley, sometimes as look off over the city and the river to the wonderfully quieting as a convent bell at ves- foothills beyond. I am glad I live upon a pers. And in watching smoke at noon hill. It is one of my greatest pleasures on gaudiis gaudium superditat. There is a slow- a winter morning, when the air is extreme- ly pulsating movement at noon, in summer, ly cold and there is a frosty, slightly lavender whether of earth, or sky, or of one's own be- tinted vagueness about the trees and the ing, or all, I know not, but it is almost in- white pillared ho-uses, to see, down in the variably present. Work for an hour or so valley, the great clouds of smoke rise up in has ceased, and men rest, but this sub-con- puffs toward the sky. Smoke at such a scious activity continues, in regula;r beatsl '~ \ 1 i I ! I ! not in l . rnorntn: hasty P the day ing fall echoes 1\t e' has beE ature h up chit West, bundle cense ~ heaver marka1 the in only a ary ob at eve the ai: color, earth, mists creep ment. brace kiss u Slend the h c: Th recen dent, Kenr hens &c., A class ernit with appe

l 1 i I ! I ! THE CONCORDIENSIS. 21 not in great spurts and puffs as in early 111 orning, but with a measured, not over hasty progression. It is the culmination of the day from which the afternoon and even- ing fall away like the close of a story or the echoes of music. 1\t evening smoke is a benediction which has been recognized in literature since liter- ature has been. Smoke in the evening drifts up chimneys when the air is brilliant in the West with wonderf11l fires fed with great bundles of cloud, .,moke then is a very in- cense swung before the stupendous altar of heaven on which God's man is lighting re- markable candles, candles with whose flame the incense never mingles, candles which only a great glaring sun snuffs into tempor- ary obscurity. There is an exquisite moment at evening just after the sun has sunk and the air seems to echo the unheard music of MORE EXHIBITS IN CHEMISTRY. The Department Plans for Moving Into New Building. The Department of Chemistry has re- ceived more specimens for the new chemical 1nuseurn. The 1'hermal Syndicate, of Wall- send-on-the ;Tyne, England, has sent four samples of silica ware. This material has the remarkable property of being suddenly cooled as by dropping ·while red hot into cold water without fracturing. Ordinary glassware is broken into a thousand pieces by similar treatment. The exhibit com- prises a glazed crucible, a piece of tubing, a pipe section and a large concentrating dish for use in sulfuric acid plants. The New Jersey Zinc Company has sent ten specimens of zinc ores and pure pro- ducts all enclosed in a beautiful oak case. The chief ores of zinc are willemite, franklin- ite, and carbonate-silicate ores. Pure ovides and pure spelter are also shown. The de- partment is looking forward eagerly to the erection of the new building in order that the hundreds of things now stored away in boxes may be properly labelled and placed on exhibition. A special room will be pro- color, when there is a strange hovering of earth and sky. It is at the moment when the mists begin to rise along the streams and creep up about the trees and cling like a gar- ment. The sky seems to draw down to em- brace the warm earth and implant its cool kiss upon the flushed surface of the lake. Slender needles of smoke weave the sky to the hearth and the -day is complete. \ vided for the museum. CHEMICAL SOCIETY ELE.CTS. The Union College Chemical Society has recently elected officers for the year. Presi- dent, F. Russell Elmore; vice-president, Kenneth E. Baird; secretary, Hon1er L. Step.- hens; treasurer, Earl M. Hyatt; librarian, &c., Louis Mann. A considerable number of men in each class are ineligible to play in the inter-frat- ernity baseball league owing to affiliation with varsity squads. A list of these names appears on the bulletin board. +++++++++++++++++++ + + W AITY IDEAS. + A. G. L. '18. + Hast ever sat with pen in hand Awaiting inspiration? In muse-fled equilibriu1n, And vap'rous perspiration? I often wait till midni o-ht b ' (More patient I, than some,) I often wait till half-past twelve, And even then it doesn't come! •

22 THE ·CONCORDIENSIS . ••••••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••••••••• + + • • + WAR AS THE FANS SEE IT. + + I'LL BET YOU DID! ! .. + By Bailey '19. + • A. G. L. '18. + • • • • ••••••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••••••••• Bulgaria-A good ball playe'r all the man- agers are after but who still waits for higher salary. Japan-Can play any position and makes all the managers nervous. Russia-A big fellow but so slow he has to make a homer in order to get to first. Belgium-The innocent spectator who was hit with a foul ball. Turkey-A pitcher who looked easy but who is making a lot of trouble. Uncle Sam-The man who owns the pop, peanut and reftreshment privilege. Wilson-The umpire in Mexico whose judgment goes but who never satisfies any .. body. War Correspondents- The men who can't get into the press stands because the man- agers have given all the seats to their friends. Czar-The manager with loads of sub- 5ti tutes but too few regular players. On May 1 '{ Dr. Richmond will be the chief ~peaker at a dinner held in the Biltmore in New York City at the centenary of Ameri- can Savings Bank Association. The German department of the High School will present \Hansel und Gretel\ in the school auditorium on May 19th. Col- lege men who may be interested are cor- dially invited to attend. .Did you ever get a headache that defied all medication, That persisted in tormenting you with grim .. ness enervating? With a pounding at your temples, and a throbbing near your eyes, And a wracking in your wisdom teeth, a taste like stale mud-pies. Then your spinal cord gets wriggly And uncomfortably hot, And your hair is mussed and sticky And your eye-balls turkey-trot! You consume huge hills ~£ asp'rin Seas of water cold and hot Until at last you think it's gone, But has it? IT HAS NOT! It returns with tripled energy And, oozing from each pore, Seems to typify Poe's raven And coaketh \Nevermore!\ 0 nevermore may I have one. The next, I shan't live thru, And if you've ever had the things, I sympathize with you! Full many a man both yo.ung and old Has gone to his sarcophagus By pouring water icy cold Ado\rn his hot aesophagus. --Dr. Wiley. TAXI PHONE TAXI Green and Gray LIMOUSINES 844 GREEN TAXICAB CO. Night and Day TOURING CARS p -

- Mr. L. F. Burke, Schenectady, N. Y. City of Chicago awarded us contract for 150 Model 17-E Excelsior Motorcycles. Other com- petitors were $13.00 lower each. Quality counts. EXCELSIOR MOTOR MFG. & SUPPLY. L .. F. BURKE, Boston Sq., 230 So. Center Street Excelsior and Henderson Motorcycles-Bicycles and Smith Motor Wheels. ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1900 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Str·eet 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 C.lleQe Representative NEAR BARNEY'S 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie~ insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ 'lfo-r~r,~· .As hby-2.%in. Lexicon-tJ~in. A \'fti.e new .n.RROW ·co LLARspring style. in two heights CLUETT, PEABODY t:rco. lNC.N.AKtRS CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at \\ery reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. WHEN 'Phone 4489 IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

Spring ·Spring Hats -~ Shir~ts Spri~g Clothes • •• ~ .... ./1. ·. This way,· Please, ·if you· desire the ' Newest »and Best in Spring· Outfitting! 'At this Good Clothes Store you get all- the style, the Finest Tailoring and tl1e Choicest Fabrics---The Distinctive Models that are ·Shown in this Store Exclusively. Spring Suits · Spring Coats Co.m·e In, Look Them Over ·DU···- . -~it'~ rl-, . .t J ~ . -· . - . 455 STATE STREET The Store That Creates---But Never Imitates Scbeaectady --alP Art Pre~~ ' . f\

n C!ffe CONCORDIENSIS VOLUME 39 MAY I8, 1916 NO. 25 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY .u

UNION UNIV.ERSI CHARLES ALEXANDE.R RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE The college offers the following undergraduate mel graduate courses : 1.. Veur•e• leadtll&' te the elegree of A.. B. CLAssiCAL CouRSE .A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- eluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B -This course may be pur~ sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for. admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. s. ()our•e leadtll&' to the ••cree of Ph. B. ·LATIN -SCIENTII.t'IC Coua.sa- This course offers L,atin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. a. Oeur•e leadblg to the aearee of B. 1 .. ScittNTr:rxc CouRsE- This course is based upon the atutly of mathematics and the sciences. 4, Oourae leaclhl&' to the 4esree of D. B. GJtNUAL ENGINEERING Cou~tss-- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, cemprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- anental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. S.ANITAB.Y ENGINEERING Cou:R.s£- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CoURSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 6. Ooar•e• Ieatllac to crada.ate 4egree•· CouRSE LEADING TO DEGUE or M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSS LF:ADING TO DEG:R.£1 or M. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING TO D!GR!I o:t PH. D._.This courae of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an equjvalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BAitNltS., Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W 727 Nott Street Acroa• from College Gate ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 1838--A co.n1plete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students. having im\ mediate responsibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physic·s, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. . The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All tn- quiries and other communication-s should be ad- dressed to THOMAS ORDWAY, M.D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to Its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semestert. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $to: tuition fee, $Ito. For catalogue or other information, addreaa: JoHN C. WATSON, Secretary; Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY--Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of aeven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: ALntltD B. Hu~s'fED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25o. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate VOL SATl ~ Class ] Inter Sa camr taket be b o' clo. Al the ~ will of t1 forw so ph row~ fresl cupy balcc Fi char: the 1 aftet a bot trhe will

The Concordiensis VOL. 39 MAY 18, 1916 NO. 25 SATURDAY A BUSY DAY; MOVING-UP EXERCISES AND ATHLETICS ARE ON PROGRAM Classes Will Move-Up in Chapel at 9:00 O'clock. BASEBALL WITH ST. JOHNS. Interclass Meet and Union-Colgate Tennis Other Features of Day. Saturday will be a busy day about the campus. Nearly the entire morning will be taken up with the moving-up exercises, to be held in the chapel, beginning at nine o'clock. All classes will come in as usual, though the seating will be changed. The seniors will take their customary places at the left of the chapel, the juniors will occupy the forward part of the middle section, while the sophomores will take the last six: or seven rows of seats, vacated by the juniors. The freshmen are to con1e down stairs, and oc- cupy the section on the right, leaving the balcony for visitors. First on the progran1 co1nes the regular chapel exercises. At the conclusion of these the regular business meeting will take place, after which the seniors will rise and march about the room, singing the '16 class song. trhe members of the old Terrace Council will drop out of line the first ti1ne around, and the juniors will then follow the seniors in the line. Each time around one of the four men selected for Terrace Council will be picked. The president of the Council will give an address to the new men at the close of the procession, after which De Rouville will sing the Alouette song. This will con- clude the chapel exercises. The two under- classes will then proceed to the idol, where a permanent truce will be declared, the idol painted white, and the freshn1en will bid good-bye to the green caps. -qollo-w..ving the last idol worship, Wally Giriu::~'s men will meet Colgate on the col- lege courts. The afternoon will be taken up with the interclass track meet and the baseball game with St. Jo-hns. The students of 'Vashington University and St. Louis University are actively inter- ested in the St. Louis celebration of the Shakespeare tercentenary, which will be an out-door production of \As Yo-u Like It,'' given by a cast of 1,000 persons. On Tuesday, May 16, the following men had survived the second matches of the Slazenger tournament: Upp, Franck, Gilles- pie, 1-Ieatly, Dorlon, Loughlin, King~ Brown, C. F\., Talbot. The 1917 memorial comtnittee is made up of Lester, Clough, 'Villiams and Brandovv, chairman.

10 THE CON'CORDIENSlS. INFANTILE WHINING HEARD FROM CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION Y. M. C. A. Announces That It Has a New ' . Pet. Those who have been very attentive to the affairs of the college have doubtless heard the infantile whining of the latest _pet of the Y. M. C. A., its employment bu- : --.~eau. .'.f4e babe is doing very nicely, and . soon, it is hoped, it will have developed such '. ··lungs· that its bawlings must ef 'necessity be · heeded. , · ~ . i : , T ~ '· In·'the meantime, the fostering will entail much work and worry. ·That' the burden may . :not rest too heav.i~y on' the few, the co-opera- tion of the many is earnestly requested. Thus, if you have a line on any summer job, which you are not going to \enjoy\ yourself; or if you know of any employers, a sounding of whon1 might prove worth while, just 'phone such to the committee. If you are a senior, and will soon be passing up a job, don't let it go out of the family. The As- sociation has the names of any number of men who need that work and it is your duty to see that one of them gets it. Do it now, before you forget about it. Our 'phone is No. 1878. The committee has a very good opening for a graduating student who intends to take post graduate work, or who would like some- thing to do for about a year while waiting !or that \big offer.\ The work is managing one of the book store in town. Salary will ~epend upon the qualifications of the ap- plicant. Position open about June first. Here is a proposition at which you can work all of the time or part of the time; or during the summer; in the city or in your home time-not canvassing. We want a bunch of fellows to secure outstanding bills to doctors, dentists and business men for collection by the American Physicians' Service. You do not collect; simply effect the placing of the accounts in the hands of the agency. Commission on each account regardless of result. This is good. If you would like to spend the summer in a resort and earn about fourteen dollars per week, perhaps you would like to do un- skilled floor work in a garage. We want a man to wash dishes in a res- taurant Sundays. Whether it be your desire to ask or lend assistance, telephone John Moore, who is the head of this committee . PREVENTION A COMMUNITY, NOT INDIVIDUAL, PROBLEM. Dr. Frank Overton, State Department of Health, Speaks on Care· of Eyes. Dr. Frank Overton, a representative of the State Department of Health and an old college day friend of Dr. March, give a very interesting talk after chapel last Mon- day on the care of the eyes. The great new problem is prevention, pre- vention of all kinds of diseases, and in this case, prevention of headaches, eye strains, backwardness, et cetera, by the intelligent use of glasses. He emphasized the fact that this question is not an individual but a com- rnunity problem. Cleanliness, careful ex- amination by an occulist and the necessity of using '''drops\ to paralize the eye muscles were all n1entioned in the course of Dr. Over- ton's hurried speech. Dr. Richmond said a few words about the importance of having a part in community problems of all kinds and then he caused a general laugh by commenting on the fact that Dr. Overton had not spoken at length on the mental weakness resulting from eye trouble, for that, thought D.r. Richmond, would have been a personal subject to us. MA FlN Esti F Put casl 10'\V tnit Pri1 Phc Cut Ins, Inc r~ Ad· Ins Frc: ] 91 Bo Mi: Ca Cl< Ad ' .J Su

T·HE CONCORDIENSIS 11 MANAGER DANNER ANNOUN:CES FINANCIAL REPORT OF '16 GARNET Establishes Precede·t;tt in Reporting a Cash Balance. For the first time in the history of the Publication Board, a Garnet report with a cash balance has been turned in. The fol- lo,ving report of the 1916 Garnet was sub- tnitted by Manager Danner: EXPENDITURES. Printing and binding ------------$ Photo engraving --·-----·-------- Cuts and artists' work ------------ Inserts (fraternity) ------------- Incidentals· (itemized in detailed report) ------------------ ---- 736 03 206 45 32 58 41 25 39 17 $1,055 48 INCOME. Advertisers ------------------ --$ Inserts, 15 fraternities ----------- 422 00 75 00 300 00 284 50 67 50 6 70 Fraternities, 10 books each ..:. ____ _ 1916 class tax ------------------ Books sold -------------------- Miscellaneous receipts ---------- ASSETS. $1,155 70 $1,055 48 $ 100 22 Cash on hand ----:--------------$ 100 22 Class taxes to be collected ------- 30 50 Advertisers --------·------------ 34 00 $ 164 \12 LIABILITIES. Manager's fee ------------------$ 50 00 Manager's fee (20 per cent on cash profit in excess of $50.00) ----- 10 04 : ·Total liabilities ---------------$ 60 04 su·rplu~ · 4,ae Publication Board __ $ 104 68 $ 164.72 CHEMISTS DRUB E. E; JUNIORS. Electricians Use Thre·e Pitchers in Attempt to Ward Off Defeat. Sixteen to seven was the size of the trounc- that the E. E. Juniors received from the advanced chemistry department in last Thursday's baseball game. The Electricians' weakness lay in their pitching staff, com- posed of Jack U pp, Don Price and Bill Schauer. Jack Upp lasted three innings and was replaced by Don Price who was wild and was unable to close the inning. Bill Schauer saved the day. Bill never pitched before but he looks like the \real thing.\ The Chemists batting was crim- inal. They were somewhat handicapped by the absence of \Three Bagger\ Carey, but such men as Stevens, Doc Salathe and Louis Mann caused tears among Dr. Berg~s favorites. Prof. Upson was slated to oppose Doc Salathe on the mound but the former was unable to play; accordingly, the Chemists pitched Mann and only put Doc in in the last inning to warm up. However, this one inning served to show his ability and the opposing team could do nothing against his terrible benders. The line-up : Chemists-Mann, p., Anderson, c., W. Hochuli, lb., Salathe, 2b., Stevens, 3b., Wal- lace, ss., Y or don, 1£., Hyatt, cf., Krusie, rf., Cleary, rf. E. E. Juniors Upp, p., Price, p., Lash- 'er, c., Schauer, lb., Maier, 2b., Clapp, 3b., Hemphill, ss., Rogers, lf., H. Hochuli, cf., Kniffen, rf. Following are the officers of the Dramatic ·Society for the ensuing year: Downs, presi- dent; Lester, vice-president; Jackson, secre- tary and assistant treasurer; Porter, man- ager; Hawley, assistant n1anager; Profes'- sor Chase, treasurer.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. UNION VANQUISHES N.Y. U. BY SEVEN TO THREE SCORE\ Capt. Hummer Registers .Fourtee-n Strike- outs. MAY AGAIN LEADS BATTING. His Customary Triple, This Time in First Inning, Starts Garnet Attack. There were very bright spots in last Sat- urday's 'l-3 victory over N. Y. U. but as a whole the team did not play the calibre of baseball of which it is capable. For the first three or four innings the varsity gave a fine exhibition of what they can do when things are undecided. In the initial inning Bill May crossed home plate shortly after slamming the ball far into left field for a three bagger ; thus started our list of tallies which finally reached seven as opposed to the three runs scored by the New Yorkers. In the second inning we procured a big lead by bringing in four runs, mostly by use of the hit and run play. After this we scored twice and N. Y. U. three times, once in the third and twice in the fifth inning. But from this time the game was loose and, to a great degree, lost its excitement. Gene Hummer exhibited his veteran regularity and skill to a degree which he has not equalled before this year. Cool and possessing perfect control, he was master from the minute he entered the box until he left it. Not a single Ulan went to first on balls and only five New Yorkers were for- tunates enough to get hits. Fourteen N. Y. U. men struck out. \Zip\ Zimmer belongs among the immor- tals for his ability in pulling down flies. One catch of his in a critical situation was per- haps as sensational as any other event of the game. As a whole, however, the fielding of both teams was comparatively poor. A nun1ber of our runs and all of those gained by the visitors can be, with fairness, attributed to errors. At first the cheering and the band started off with vigor and by their beginning seemed to promise a lively and spirited side-line game, at least. Even these soon died out. tfhe band played one piece several tilnes and the students slipped off into a deplor- able stupor, against which no cheer leaders could contest. The score of the gam·e was : UNION. a b. Moynihan, 3b. -------- 5 Zimmer, cf. ----------- 4 May, lf. ----------·---- 5 Collison, ss. ----------- 4 Beyerl, c. ------------- 4 1-Iatha,vay, rf. --------- 1 Rosekrans, 2b. -------- 2 Steele, 1 b. ------------ 3 I-I umtner, p. ---------- 4 h. po. 1 0 1 2 2 0 3 2 0 14 1 1 1 0 0 8 1 0 a. 0 0 1 1 1 0 3 0 1 Totals ------------- 35 10 27 7 N. Y. U. a b. Tetelman, 2b. --------- 5 Mendelson, 3b. -------- 4 Connell, rf. ----------- 5 Pfau, ss. -------------- 3 !(eating, cf. ----------- 4 Draper, 1 b. ----------- 4 Son1ers, 1 b. -------·---- 4 Marden, c. ------------ 4 \N\ olf, p. -------------- 3 Totals ------------- 36 h. po. 1 1 2 2 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 10 0 7 0 0 5 24 a. 2 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 4 9 Union's runs-Moynihan, 2; Zimmer, 11ay, Hathaway, Rosekrans, Hummer, 1. UNI Garr Mor Tl Ren The pon( Sch( ever won divi~ first the secc 1nar 1( secc P. I 2~ secc P. I 4~ I . ' . ' ... Uni 8: sec< R. J ~ Ma: Tin 'I sec< Uni l sec< P. J 2 sec~ P.:

TH~ CONCORDIENSIS. 13 UNION SWAMPS R. P. I. IN FIRST TRACK MEET. Garnet Takes First Place in Everything But 440 ·nash. CAPTAIN MALLEN STARS. Morrison, Moore, Hance, Miller, Bowman,. Stolle:r and Jamieson Take Firsts. The Union College <track team defeated Rensselaer Saturday afternoon at Troy. The 'Garnet doubled the score on their op- ponents, the final score being 84 to 42. The Schenectady team took first place in every event except the 440 yard dash, which was won by Schaeffer. Phil Mallen was the in- dividual star with 18 points, including three first and one second. Mallen took both of the hurdle races, the broad jump and came second in the 100 yard dash. The sum- lnary: 100 yard dash-Won by Morrison, Union ; second, Mallen, Union; third, Balleson, R. P. I. Tin1e, 11 2-5 seconds. 220 yard dash-Won by 11orrison, Union; second, Breese, R. P. 1. ; third, Ballieson, R. P. I. Time, 23 3-5 seconds. 440 yard dash-Won by Schaeffer, R. P. I.; second, Dawson, R. P. I.; third, Newman, Union. Time, 56 1-5 seconds. 880 yard run-Won by Moore, Union; second, Krehbiel, R. P. I.; third, Parsons, R. P. I. Time, 2 min. \' seconds. Mile run-Won by Hance, Union; second, Markham, R. P. I.; third, Philip, Union. Time, 4 minutes 58 seconds. Two mile run-Won by Hance, Union; second, Newton, Union; third, McLean, Union. Time, 10 min. 17 seconds. 120 yard hurdles-Won by Mallen, Union; second, Bushnell, R. P. I.; third, Buckley, R. P. I. Time, 17 2-5 seconds. 220 yard hurdles-Won by Mallen, Union; second, Ewing, R. P. I.; third, Bushnell, R. P. I. Time, 29 seconds. High jump-Won by Miller, Union; sec·- ond, W ooisey, R. P. 1. ; third, Bushnell, R. P. I. Height, 5 feet, 5 inches. Broad jump-Won by Mallen, Union; second, Miller, Union; third, Ballieson, R. P. I. Distance, 21 feet, 1 1-4 inches. Shot put-Won by Bowman, Union ; sec- ond, Stoller, Union; third, MacKenzie, R. P. 1. Distance, 35 feet 9 inches. Hammer throw-Won by~ Stoller, Union; second, Krell, R. P. I.; third, Jamieson, Union. Distance, 105 feet 7 inches. Pole vault-Won by Jamieson, Union; second, Miller, Union and Kerslake, tied. Height, 10 feet and 6 inches. Discuss throw-Won by Stoller, Union; second, Kriel, R. P. I. ; third, DuBois, Union. Distance, 103 feet 8 inches . LYNDE D. HOKERK, '15, ANNOUNCES ENGAGEMENT. Will Marry Miss Hazel Moyer of Herkimer, N. Y. The announcement of the approaching marriage of Lynde D. Hokerk '15 to Miss Hazel Moyer of Herkimer, has been re- ceived by fellows on \the hill.\ The mar- riage ceremony will take place on the night of June lOth at 7 :30, at the First Baptist Church of Herkimer. Hoke was one of the 1nost popular fellows on the hill, having play- ed center on the football teams for his four years, and having been president of his class in his senior year. Hoke's n1any friends will wish hin1 all kinds of success in his new undertaking. Gerry vVoods '15 will be Hoke's best man, and Baldy '15, Duane '15, and Kennedy '18 will act as ushers. Hoke is a metnber of the Delta Upsilon fraternity. The Chen1ical Society initiated four new tnembers last Monday evening. They were Harvey '17, Hoag '18, 1\!Iudge '18, and Swart '18.

14 THE CONCORDIENSlS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Publi-shed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., aos Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Ralph Knight '17 ---------- Psi Upsilon House MANAGING EDITOR. Fawcett W. Porter '17 ---------- Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR. William C. Loughlin '17, Phi Gamma Delta House LITERARY EDITOR David F. Chaptnan '17 --------- Delta Phi House ASST. LITERARY EDITOR Rudolph W. Schwartz '17 ---- 37 Glenwood Blvd ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. G. Carey, Jr., '18 E. L. Newell '18 F. G. Bascom '18 S W. Talbot '18 H. L. Cook '18 REPORTORIAL STAFF. H. H. Newton '19 Adam Bailey '19 G D. Rosenthal '19 W. R. Barnett '19 C A. Brind, Jr., '19 A. B. Dougal '19 E. ]. Griswold '19 K. H. Gorham '19 V. H. Scales '19 Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscripuon: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. KILL IT DEAD! 1Ebltnrials With this week's college meeting, the Terrace Council of 1916 saw pass its last opportunity to directly or indirectly guide undergraduate sentin~ent-an op- portunity which is ultimately the pur- pose of the Terrace Council as it exists at Union, and an opportunity which the 1916 Council has, we believe, made the very best of. The last act of the Council, while temporarily un- successful, was by all odds the greatest of their re gin1e. The idea upon which they set the stu- dents thinking is. one which we are certain the undergraduate body believe-s is good. Unfor- tunately, the Council in its motion attempted to decide the question in what n1ight be tenned a half-hearted way and the meeting rejected it ab- at the same time be absolutely useless in serv~ ing the ends that class scraps are claimed to-. and do-serve. It will be a notable forward step when Union entirely abolishes the cane rush in its present form or any moderation of this form. and the serious-minded men in college know this. ClatSs scrapping, as differentiated from class fighting, has permanent results which are decid- edly for the good. Class spirit, after college spirit, is a thing to be sought for. Few indeed are the men who cannot trace many of their earliest and firmest college friendships back to chance meetings during the long nights around the idol, to acquaintanceships struck up while standing back to back in its defense. If a man excuse himself from the salt scrap without good reason, his character is instantly bared to his dass-mates with a vividness that two year-s of class,..room contact would hardly equal. Injuries in these scraps are negligible at the worost; a few unfortunates annually encounter the tomatoes with their eyes instead of their chests. The struggles around the idol and the salt rush are things which we will preserve, but * * * Well within undergraduate memory a certain freshman entered Union; he had previously been forced to buckle down on his own hook and scrape together .gufficient money to carry hin1 over the shoals of his. first year's bills. He demonstrated thereby that he had the stuff-we think of no better way to express it. And he in1n1ediately began to show it further when col .. lege started. He waos off with a flying start in the class-room; he plunged whole-souledly into his class scrapping. He was just beginning to see a succes-sful college course and a successful career ahead when his body was twisted in the cane rush and they took hin1 to the hospital. His class-mates never saw him again; in a twinkling his plea-sant vision had gone up in sn1oke. Grant that the cane rush has the same measure of value as the salt scrap. Place it in one side of the balances and over against it place the future that this fre.ghman might have had. Which weighs the most? solutely. In substance, the tnotion called for a n1odera- tion of the cane rush. In its stead was to be held a similar rush between ten picked tnen fron1 each class. Such a rush would but slightly lessen that pre-sent danger of personal injury and would We feel that the undergraduates are clear- visioned enough to see that we must clear our college system of the cane rush-AND DO IT BEBORE PRESIDENT RICHMOND DOES IT FOR US. We do not feel, though, that all of then1 see the absurdity in fussing about with the attempt to 'Straighten things out by introducing n1oderate substitutes. Glenn, announcing himself in Monday's meeting as the minority, suggested splittin: which taken. sufficie the dar it, and about 1 upper · cla-ssm future Bro, anoth<: dozen cane' ed. A ber o] result There arranl ctrcutS Otl broug retnec alwa) whid whicl benei class the < as tl A Mon peat, fl10ll wha· sho-v £avo this ts a: T: The spe< isn'· thei the: for ver: A bes

THE C0NCORDIENSIS. 15 splitting the affairs up into three sections- which would simply mean a tripled rioSk to he taken. The decreased numbers would NOT be sufficient to hoist the thing out of the realm of the dangerouoS. \A three-ringed circus,\ he called it, and thus threw away half the armor from about his argument. A three-ringed circus to the upper classtnen; put the amusement of the upper cla-ssmen in the balance against that freshman's future that might have been! Brown, who introduced the motion, ran up another blind alley with his idea of picking a dozen men fr.om each class to sprawl over the cane while the others lounged around and cheer- ed. A scrap which is not a scrap for every mem- ber of the class is ab-solutely lacking in the only results which make it in the least worth while. There would be no use whatever for such an arrangement-other than add seven rings to the ClrCUoS. Other moderate betwixts and betweens were brought out; none of them brought an intelligent retnedy because norte of them can. There will always be either the element of large numbers, which means danger, or that of small numbers, which means sudden death to the fundamental benefits of scrapping. UnlesoS, of course, the two classes march around on the side of a hill while the officers give roses to one another, somewhat as they do at Wellesley. A motion must be brought up in meeting next Monday to kill the cane rush dead-and we re- ' peat, get the thing over with before Dr. Rich- n1ond sees we haven't brains enough to know what is good for the college and sets about to show us. The chances are good round odds in favor of the faculty snatching the settlement of thi.g question from under our noses if there ever is another cane rush on the campus. The motion must be brought up next Monday. The seniors will vote for it because · their per- spective is now large enough to see that the thing isn't worth while. The juniors will swallow their deoSire to see the circus,· and vote for what they know is right. The sophomores will vote for it because they are near enough to it to see very vividly its dangers. And we will all vote for it because it is the very best thing that could happen to Union. THOUGHTS ON CHAPEL M. G.'s recently communicated plea for slightly greater denomina- tional representation in chapel service puts us in mind of an ex- isting, or rather, non-existing, condition, which we have vaguely wondered at from time to time but never given voice to. We will pause here to .gay that M. G.'s thought has found a sympathetic chord in a considerably larg- er number of the undergraduates than we, to be frank, expected it would. Unfortunately, many students \endure\ chapel from day to day; their frame of mind is that of indifference. College men look their blankest in chapel We believe that iri later life many of these men will realize that a bettering influence came to them from that custom of commencing the new day with prayer. M. G.'s letter~ we repeat, revealed fewer of these men and more of those who really feel the fineneoSs of morning devotion, and who, if they be not of the creed of Wesley or Calvin, may feel somewhat slighted by our chapel lead- ers. Still pausing, we would respectfully suggest that the chapel singing is most interesting when confined to the hymns of the really great writ- er'S, such men as Dykes and Wesley, for instance. To us, frequent repetition of the better hymns is more enjoyable than frequent delving into the more or less unfamiliar work of the lesser composers. Our thoughts are conglon1erate;- we return to the path upon which we started. In The Forum we print a communication which, speaking of M. G._, concludes, \but certainly the .guggestion of your correspondent will stir those (faculty) members of the Episcopal Church at least to con- sider whether the faculty ought Rot to display as much interest in the chapel services a.g the student body.\ We would agree with this statement, and add that one might think all the members of the faculty, regardless of their religious tendencies, would consider the que.gtion. We would hardly say that the faculty, speaking generally of course, approach regularity in attendance. Our seat happens to be so situated that we can well ob- serve our vast superiority over them in this one thing at least and, being .go located, we are af- forded infinite cause for glee at the beginning of each term as the new sophomore markers spy the long void spaces down in front and search be- wilderedly through their books in vain attempt to di-scover the nan1 es of the erring ones.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Many members o ftl;le faculty, undoubtedly, have excellent reasons for not being present-others, we suggest, have not. Still, it is highly probable that a majority of them are favorable to compul- iory chapel for the students. It is our impression that compulrSory attend- ance, as other matters of college curriculum, is a question which is solely in the hands of the trus- tees, but we believe that., if the question of it'S abolishment were to be considered, they would listen respectfully to the recommendations of the faculty upon the subject. And the faculty, it is our impression, would vote \no.\ Yet, we repeat, their own attendance is sparSmodic to say the least. Is the habit of opening the day with prayer, we wonder, something to be cultivated more by the man of twenty than the man of forty? THE FORUM To the Editor of THE CONCORDIENSIS: The letter of your correspondent on the subject of the chapel services is full of in- terest. Among the best of its suggestions (to my n1ind) is that which urges the pro- priety of allowing the chapel exercises to be carried on by members of the faculty who represent creeds other than those \of Calvin and .. \;Vesley,\ to use your correspondent's language. It might be noted that in earlier years there was always a devout interest in the reading in chapel of Professor Ashmore and Professor Whitehorn, one and perhaps both of whom were lay readers in the Pro- testant Episcopal Church. I do not exact- ly know the religious affiliation of all the members of the .faculty at present, but cer- tainly the suggestion of your correspondent will stir those members of the Episcopal Church at least to consider whether the faculty ought not display as much interest in the chapel services as the student body. Yours very truly, EDWARD E. HALE. Y. M. C. A. ••••••••••••••••••• The Y. M. C. A. is gradually closing its year's work, after a busy and profitable sea- son. Plans are under way for next year's activi .. ties, and the work of securing men to aid in the Association during the season of 1916-17 is now progressing rapidly. The association is endeavoring to secure the assistance of fifty men. Thirty have already been secured, and will aid in the various phases of the work, such as social service, arranging for \get togethers\ in Silliman Hall, securing positions for the employment bureau, and kindred activities. There is still plenty of op- portunities for men to take part and boost .. '\fhose who have taken up the work, have found it to be a \man's job\ in every re- spect, and one worthy of their best abilities. The Northfield Conference is ever kept in mind. About ten men have already signi- fied their intention of going, and there is room for many more. The Union delegation should be large. Other colleges, real col- leges too, send large delegations, among whom are numbered many of the finest ath- letes and most capable all around men that the college world in general knows of. The conference lifei tself is one which cannot hut appeal to every right-thinking young n1an. A week of clean, healthy and whole- some fun is to be had at Northfield, while the fact that such men as John R. Mott, Rob- ert E. Speer and Harry E. Fosdick are to be present, should be attraction and invitation enough. Sunday vesper services are concluded until Commencement Week, when the final one will be an open air meeting in the Garden. It will be led by a member of the class of 1896. +· + t ·~ •l+ \F< + + +. ~ Ev4 know dufflt: amou comfc indiv: quen· whic1 ing t . 2 pa1 1 pa: 2 oli 1 oli 1 ca1 4 su 6 pa 2 pa 2 liE Sma Sha, Con 3 to 1 di: Har Sm<: T . tng corr. plie muc \ch I sl abs on

THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 ••••••••••••••••••• + • •l+ \FORWARD MARCH TO PLATTS-+ + BURG.\ + •lf By Ned Moo·re-S. S. N. C. + + + ••••••••••••••••••• Everyone who has done any camping knows that the more trips he takes the less duffle he carries each succeeding time. The amount of clothing necessary to be perfectly comfortable seems to vary inversely as the individual's camping experience. Conse- quently I am going to make a list of articles which should prove sufficient for anyone go- ing to Plattsburg this year. 1. Uniform. 1 pair tan marching shoes 1 pair light shoes or sneakers 2 pairs of olive drab breeches, cotton 1 pair leggins, regular pattern 2 olive drab shirts, wool 1 olive drab blouse, cotton (the coat) 1 campaign hat and special cord 2. Other Clothing. 4 suits summer underwear 6 pairs natural color part-wool socks, med- ium weight 2 pairs usual socks 2 light soft shirts 3. Miscellaneous. Small mirror Shaving outfit Comb, hair brush, tooth brush, etc. 3 towels, bath variety best 1 dish towel Handkerchiefs Small flash light ((very convenient) The shoes should be selected by their feel- ing on the feet; get them wide enough to be comfortable the first time on. This also ap- plies to the light shoes or sneakers-inas- much as one's feet swell considerably, these \~hange-off's\ should be comfortably large. I should advise tan color, too, although not absolutely necessary. The blouse (except on dress parade) is worn only when leaving the camp off duty. On warm nights a light soft shirt underneath is often more comfort- able than the wool service shirt. Olive drab regulation sweaters are issued to each man from the quartermaster's ·department. The. red, white and blue hat-cord is the official symbol for the Training Camp troops. If civilian clothing is worn to and away from the camp, some of the ,clothing already listed may be worn up instead of carried- that is, the list is inclusive. While at camp, even over Sundays, there is no necessity for wearing civilian clothing. Personally, I think it is pleasanter traveling without a uni- form-suits may be stored best at any con- venient tailors so as to be in good shape when the return trip is made. Last year 111en went off on week-end parties, to dances, and to town in their uniforms-! believe it was required in the September camp. While in the permanent camps pajamas are com- fortable, but not necessary, of course. For une and September camps it might be best to take two suits of heavy and two of light weight underwear. It is not necessary to take a razor along ; there are plenty of barbers within reaching distance ordinarily ; even on the \hike\ you ca~ count on one every two or three days at the outside. The flash-light is handy after taps and at night on the \hike.\ Stationery is supplied for the entire camp by the Y. M. C. A. Be sure to take a dish towel ; you'll appreciate it before the camp is over. There are some special toilet sets for :field use which fold up in a conveniently shaped and sized package-a luxury, but handy on the \hike\ especially (I know, because I didn't have one.) As final advice: Don't take up too much stuff. Practically all the articles listed may be bought on the camp grounds or in Platts- burg-and many other convenient but un- necessary articles besides. If you can get the vvhole outfit, with the exception of what you wear up, in one old suitcase, you're \all set\ for the month.

81 THE . CON.CORDIENSIS. + -tt+ + •l+ •t+ + -tt• (+ ... ·+ + + + +l+ + .. -tl+ (+ -tl• + + ~; STUDENT MEETING, MAY 15, 1916. (• + + • + ·+ +t+ + + + + + + + + (+ + + + + (+ + Gene's baseball report was the good, old story again, \Union wins.\ In Saturday's game with N. Y. U. the tean1 did not play well throughout the nine innings, but in the first few a very good showing was made. Again Captain Hummer emphasized the im- ·portance of hard work if we are going to beat Hamilton which \plays twice as well as it knows how against Union.\ Wally Gi~ling smiled all over for he had a tie to report for Saturday's contest with Trinity. Saturday Colgate here and next \\AI ednesday Vermont in Burlington are the nuts which the tennis team has to crack in the near future. · . 84-42, just double, such was the result of our track team's trip toR. P. I. Once we mis- fired, said Phil Mallen; one first place went to the Rensselaer boys. This year we have a really well balanced team which would be greatly strengthened, however, by the pres- ence of men to carry off second and third places. On the 27th of this month we will have a hard fight either with Colgate or in the N. Y. S. Intercollegiate meet. A talk on the Fitzh.ugh Ludlow cup by Alexander D. Kline '08 was the notable fea- ture of the college meeting. He set the big silver creation on to-p of the rostrum and then proceeded to hand bouquets to 1917, to tell us that the music of \An Ode to Old Union\ was written originally for a tetnper- ance campaign, and to explain the basis upon which the contest is conducted. Attendance-lD points. Merit in singing college sortg-15 points. Merit in singine- original so rig-· 40 points. Literary merit o£ original song-·· 25 points. Original music -· 10 points Total ;t>O points Union is not going to have a ,20 man .t'.ane rush _after all for the resolution, \Resolved That the number of men par ticipating in the cane rush be restricted to 20, 10 men being selected from each class,\ was overwhelmingly -defeated. \Fos\ Brown spoke in favor of the resolution and showed that the cane rush is not an old Union in- stitution and then spoke of the danger of the present method. Gummy Glenn was the opposition. The present plan may be bad, but the proposed one which kills a democratic institution, is not a proper sub- stitute,~ was the essence of his argument. \Pud\ IIauenstein as class marshal gave the plans for Moving-up Day, Saturday, May 20th. At the exercises beginning at 9 o'clock, in the chapel, the juniors and sopho- mores are to inter-change seats. Ninety men are wanteq at Plattsburg to wait on table. You can make $20 a month or you can work during one camp and at- tend the next free. Such was Ned Moore's announcement. CHI PSI'S AND PHI GAM'S TO ROLL MATCH League Leaders to Meet at Early Date to . Decide Bowling Title. The Chi P.si's- head the old bowling league with only two defeats against them. The Phi Gam's lead the new organization with a record of thirten won and two lost. A match has been arranged between these. two crowds and will take place at an early date. Such inter-est bas been displayed in ·bowl- ing this season that it would be well if we joined the tecently formed Intercollegi-ate Bowling League. The present members· at this league are Yale, Cornell, R. P. I:, Stev:O: ens, Lehigh and Syracuse. , Their next tournament wiU be held in· Apti.l •191?' •. OFFJ Schm Th~ was l day t Off as fo . pres1c Schal Th Radic quar1 York ed to confc Th basel May KG L. P. Be terie: Cb Pb Batt· Strec Al Batt Bald K« Kirk Pl B-e Smi1 Dj . 1es: L« Batt Mat p~ Flet

TH]£ ·CONCORDIENSIS. 19 OFFICERS ELECTED IN FINANCIAL AID FOR RADIO CLUB MEETING NORTHFIELD DELEGATES Sch:midt, '1'1, President for Ensuing Year. y. M. C. A. Makes Efforts to Increase Union Represe·ntation. The last Radio Club meeting for this year was held in the electrical laboratory on Fri- day night. Officers for the ensuing year were elected as follows: President, Schmidt, '17 ; vice- president, Matern, '18; secretary-treasurer, Schabbehar, '18; chief engineer, Newell, '18. The club has decided to affiliate with the Radio Club of Ame·rica, which has its head- quarters at Columbia University in New York City. A committe has been appoint- ed to revise the constitution of the club to conform with the national club regulations. The scores of the inter-faternity league baseball games through the week ending May 13 are appended : Kappa Alpha 4, Sigma Phi 4. Batteries : L. P. Brown and Carr; Tell and Ha\rley. Beta Tp.eta Pi 7, Phi Gamma Delta 4. Bat- teries: Gulick and Smith; Jones and Spears. Chi Psi 0, Psi Upsilon 9, forfeit. Phi Delta Theta 2, Lambda Chi Alpha 15. Batteries: Peasley and Reed; Creble and Streeter. Alpha Delta Phi 4, Pyramid Club 12. Batteries: Garrison, Lester and Bennett; Baldeaux and Mattern. Kappa Alpha 8, D·elta Phi 6. Batteries: Kirkup and Carr; Mott and Powell. Phi Delta Theta 4 , Beta Theta Pi 16. Batteries: Birdsell and Reed; Gulich and Smith. Delta Upsilon 15, Psi Upsilon 7, Batter- ies: Ladd and Manion; Flood and Young. Lambda Chi Alphai 6, Pyramid Club 4. Batteries: Creble and Streeter; Baldaux and Mattern. Psi Upsilon 8, Sigma Phi 2. Batteries: Fletcher and Gillespie; Tell and Hawley. The Northfield Conference is a gathering of all the colleges and universities. of the north. The delegations are made up of live fe 1 1ows. Such men as John R. Mott, Sher- wood Eddy, and Robert Speer are listed among the speakers at the conference. Union has always been backward in its Northfield representation. The college Y. M. C. A. is very generous this year, and its members are going to help every man who wishes to attend the conference by paying some of their expenses. Think it over. If you go as one of our delegates from Union, you will have a splendid vacation with very small expenditure; you will meet many men from other colleges. All fellows interested see Newman '18 or Clough '1'7. THE STAFF POET. \Now give me,\ quoth the Editor, \Some poetry to print, For I am sorely pressed for stuff, I know you are a mint Of verses, puns and limerick; So go and write me something, quick!\ So I sat down and as before I thought and thought and thought some more! Till soon my head began to nod (He stirred me with his stirring .rod). \Get up, you boob!\ he wildly roared, As round me eagle-eyed, he soared, \Get up, and write some POETRY, \Or else you'll get the sack from n1e !\ I laid these verses at his side, He took one look; \You're Fired!\ he cried. A. G. L., '18.

i . i 20 THE CONCORDIENSW. ••••••••••••••••••• + + GERMANY. + From The. Independent-By Morris .:+ +t• Gilbert. ~· • + , +++++++++++++++++++ Germany ?-Why that's the land That children seem to understand. They know about the sunny hills Crowned with chattery bustling mills, Where a miller's son may seize his staff And swing his pack up with a laugh, And gayly go 'mid blessings hurled To seek his fortune in the world * * * And children know just how the way Winds onward all the live-long day, Until at last the miller's son (The last, the third and youngest one) Gets himself lost, at night, alone, Within a forest overgrown. But there he'll find without a doubt Some friend to seek adventure out- Perhaps a fiddler debonaire A-prancing with a dancing bear, Perhaps a soldier old and gray Back fron1 the wars and out of pay, Perhaps a talking wolf or owl, Perhaps a giant on a prowl, Or dwarf, or tailor's 'prentice wise With whom a youth could fraternize. And probably towards the break of day They'll discov~r far away A tiny spark of light-and then 'rhey'll see it is a robber's den! i\nd so will plot and· plan to go (The children-ah, the children know!) And scare that robber from the spot, And eat his meal and make his cot Their own to use like honest men--- (The robber won't come back again.) * * Next day the dauntless miller's son Will start once more when breakfast's done 'fo roam the wide world up and down- Perhaps to win a royal crown, Perhaps to help his brothers when They are attacked by evil men- Always happy and fine and free And shrewd as miller's sons must be, IZindly and quick and penniless And glad to share his merriness, And not a bit surprised to find A princess in a pumpkin-rind- And that's what little children see In Germany**** Ah, Germany! THE UKALALI. The ukalali is a fiddle that you twiddle till it toodles, Like a fillylooloo feeding on a platter full of noodles; But it's rather more aesthetic in its nature and appeal- Have you ever lamped a lily singing roundels to an!? trhe ukalali has a treble like a pebl;:>le when it tootles, Or a daffodillian ditty when the faintness of it footles; But it's rather more exotic in its esoteric phases- Did yDu ever hear a throstle when its thirst flared into blazzes? The ukaJali has a werble that will burble till it sobbles Like the gast1ronomic guinea who is glumphy as he gobbles, But the meaning of its occult, like the psy- chics when they sizz- Have you ever looked at wizards shovving lizzards how to wiz? HAut Scissors aut Nullus.\ I pass One r vVas · n Very The o That a The t Who Until That Like Wert 1 Who And All11 Ofo On d An a A rot A de Care The Wit1 Frot To~ In ~ To Anc To

THE CONCORDIENSIS . 21 +++++++++++++++++++ + + ••••••••••••••••••• + + MORNING. •t• LEWIS CAROL.L REVISED. + By \Q.\ I passed slowly down the country lane One morning when the winsomeness of life vV as in the crystal air; when things were neither Very gay nor very sad but when The oddness of the day puzzled my mind. That morning things were not themselves at all; The toads were little, gtrouchy, fat, old men Who drank n1uch wine and didn't get to bed Until the sun was up. The Indian Pipes That grew in the dark damp along the woods: Like faint white wraiths of moveless smoke at night, · Were timid ghosts of some killed beauteous bird Whose gorgeous plumage had denied it song, And now waxen and colorles they stand All mutely to be blackened by the hands Of others curious as I passed On down the lane and toward the end there was An ancient pine and withy birches grew Around, like some old grizzled sultan with A dozen slender maidens at his arms Caressing with brown fingers his grey head. The other trees in the clear air reached up With eager lips to taste the blue sky.-wine Frothed with the opal foam of fire-edged .. clouds, To swish their heads and tangle their fierce hai1r In gleaming streams of light. I looked around To be quite sure that it was not a dream And then laughed heartily and slapped my hands To see how well the gods can entertain. \The time has come,\ the Walrus said, \To speak of many a thing, Of ballads, poems and doggerel, At1d lastly songs to Spring. I love the gentle Springtime With its blossom-filled embargo The odours floating in the air Remind me of Chicago. And sometimes when the sky is blue It smells like Kansas City, too!\ The Carpenter had much to say But said it in a different way. \The Spring is very fine,\ said he, ''But give the Wintertime to me; Then is the snow a-sifting down On many a cooing pair And so thick are the peachy girls, It stnells like Delaware. But taste is what appeals to me, I leave the odorus all to thee!\ \0 Beer combines both Taste and Smell,\ 'the \\Talrus said in smirking fun, \0 Carpenter, it's capital!\ \You mean,' said he, \it's Washington.\ -A. G. L., '18. A young n1.an of stature colossal Had a brain that was merely a fossil, His use of vernacular Was highly spectacular; Resetnbling an hose minus nossil. By winning just three games of euchre I procured a new fireless-keuchre But the cursed thing \bust\ (As everything must) And it cost me considerable leuchre.

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS. +++++++++++++++++++ + + + S. AND S WIN CROKINOLE + + CHAMPIONSHIP. + + Excitement Runs High. + + + ••••••••••••••••••• Ever play crokinole? Fascinatingest game. there is! I didn't believe it either until the other day. Thought it was a kid's game. hadn't played it since I was a small boy. But Docko showed me different. Docko be- longs to the O'Ryan ·Club over on Avenue B. Docko and I went to college together, you know. Jolly fellow is Doc. Not so young in years either but awfully young in spirit and in fact. Well, as I was about to remark, he invit- ed me over to his club. After a big pig din- ner with apple sauce on the side, the crokinole game began. I didn't dream of the importance of the affair; but it seem~ Salmagundi had eliminated Villi tz the run- ner-up who was very good when he wasn't rattled and sore. Villitz could win with no other partner than Sally, but would not play with him. So the championship had to be decided with Docko and Reggie playing Sally a.nd Snicklefritz. Rasey and Frankois and Scotty were the enthusiastic onlookers, they having been good players in thei~r time. They let forth emanations of joy during the con- Bict. And so the contest began. Snicklefritz opened with a free shot at the ring. Noth- ing doing!· Reggie whacked it off .the board with confidence born of previous victories. Salmagundi'\ chipepd Reggie's piece from be- hind the post and then Docko placed his man very dexterously. So it went till each player had shot six pieces, the first round ending with a clever double shot byy Doc.- one man left in the ten ring. Reggie started the second round with a score from the foul line. And what foul talk he got from Sal! Score 20 to 10. So the pieces whizzed back and forth till SniCklefritz inadvertently made a singer but made Sal sore by leaving so many men on the board. Round ended 30 to 20 favor Docko's team. Then Salma- gundi came across with the most remarkable shot of his young life---he made a ringer. Score 40 to 30. Excitement ran high. Scotty went after Reggie. Reggie bet a dime he ha dfound on the parlor floor. Snicklefritz snorted with chagrin. Rosey said, 11 Golly Gus, I could do better than that!\ The third round ended with Reggie shooting last. He had the opportunity to drive four men off the board and score 'l'O but failed ignomin- iously, there being one post too many in the way! Whereat the score became 60 to 30 against his side and all the onlookers laughed uproariously. Docko opened the fourth round with a twenty count. Snicklefritz rung a post and giggled, and so forth 'till Sally made one of those waltz-me-around-again- Willie unex- pected ringers. Lucky devil-SO to 50. On Sally's last shot, however, Docko's side made 45. Gee wasn't the Blonde sore ! 85 to 80 and he shooting his head off. Reggie started the fifth round and stopped near the hole. Of course Sally ONE the game with a ringer. I haven't the ne1rve to take any more of your tin1e, old chap, except to say that the games went nip and tuck, with Snicklefritz and Sally winning with a dumb luck ringer in the fifth game, making three out of five. Crocki- nole is sure some game and both players and rooters get very much excited. World's baseball series has nothing on crokinole. TAXI PHONE TAXI Green and Gray LIMOUSINES 844 GREEN TAXICAB CO. Night and Day TOURING CARS ------------------------------------------------------------------------- I J Ct p

Mr. L. F. Burke, Schenectady, N. Y. City of Chicago awarded us contract for 150 Modell7-E Excelsior Motorcycles. Other com- petitors were $13.00 lower each. Quality counts. EXCELSIOR MOTOR MFG. & SUPPLY. L. F. BURKE, Boston Sq., 230 So. Center Street Excelsior and Henderson Motorcycles--Bicycles and Smith Motor Wheels. \The College Photographer\ GARNET lMS 1M 1104 liU) WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 lJ07 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 O.lle~e Repretentative NEAR BARNEY'S liHlB 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facili tiefs insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Fer~ Street Crea10e~ Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ '!for~~ Ashby Lexicon .. ,~u... ATh.'enew .L\.RROW COLLARspring style. in two height& CLUETT, PEABODY t:rco. INC.MAKtRS CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It ia al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs eleaa- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909-J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURB Call448g KILDER & HICKS . . '

II Wherever Men gather· discuss· compare· reveal· exchange ideas- Especially when good clothes are in evidence, \The House of Houghton\ stands high. It has been said that the average man can de· teet a \Houghton\ suit even in a large crowd. Very recently in a gathering of young men, there being twenty-seven pre- sent\ The ''Houghton'' label appeared in eighteen coats out of twenty-seven. Now Boy's there must be something to it··· . It can't all be fiction. DU . . . 455 STATE STREET Art Press \

e CONCORD I ENS IS n . :. . : . • I : ... : VOLUME 39 NO. 26 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

UNION UNIVERS CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., lL D .. Chaneellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following underpaduate 111\G graduate courses: 1. Veu••e• leadtnc to the dec•ee of A.. B. 0L.AssrcAL CouRSE A._,;Greek is required for .ad- lllission to this course. French and German are in- eluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B--- This course may be pur- sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. I. Gour•e leading to the deg:ree of Pia. B. LATIN -ScutNTI1IC · CouRSE-This course offers ~in without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tlenal work in modern languages and science. . a. <1our•e leading to the degree e:f B ••• ScuN'til.tiC CouRsE- This course is based upon the ttu4y of mathematics and the sciences. •· Cour•e leading to the degree of B. &. 8ENERAL ENGINnERING Couas~- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, cemprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and medern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CooRS!- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. RL:€CTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRsE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. IS. Oour•e• leading to graduate degree•· CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE OF M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING '1'0 D:EGRU of M.S. in E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING To DEGRE~ 0'1 PH. D.-This courae of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an eqtdvalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE. Fo1.Ulded 1838:--A complete reorganization. has been effect\ed during the past year. Largely increas·ed Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate responsihility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved methods. · With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate fa.r ad- mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physic·s, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N.--Y., has arranged for such a course. . Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakag~ . . 'The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. Alltn- quiries and other communications should be ad- dressed to THOMAS ORDWAY, M. D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the !tate capitol. It occupies a building wholty devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. · Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $IIO. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: ALFRED B. H UltS'l'ED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany. N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 2 5c. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. l Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy ·The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate

. . TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical [il . I General Electric Company 5290 The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward FuH • Dress Accessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all time• The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313·3l5 State Street Tele,hone 91·W \If It's Made ,of Rubber We Have It.\ Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street. 28 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park and Tilford's Pirika, FRESH STOCK ALWAYS Complete Photo Department. Developing and Printing. 24 Hour Delivery EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. Order Your Next Suit or Overcoat from S. STEINBERG 529 Liberty Street Fit and W orkmanohip Guaranteed Altering, Cleaning and Pressing neatly done. Phone 2936-W Ru·nning Day and Night Mohawk Taxicabs 25c per mile-one or two persona. 40c per mile-three or four persons. Phone 615 Special rates to pleasure parties.

J. M. GAFFERS Anthracite C Q A L Bituminous and Wood 211 PARK PLACB \UNION NATIONAL BANK\ 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students Bell 'Phone 1356-M A.GARUCKY COLLEGE TAILOR. Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. THE CAINS ., •••• ,.~ Leading Teachers of l~l m~ Modern Dancing in Schenectady and vicinity Nicklas STANDARD DANCING taught at ARCADE HALL, every Mon-. day, VVednesday and Saturday, 3 to 5; 7:30 to 9 P. M. Private lessons by appoint- ment. All the new- est dances guaran- teed. Assembly every Monday at 9 P.M. 'Phone 1920 Address, 743 Brandywine Avenue 169 Jay St. 'Phone 2322- W Exclusive Hatter and Furnisher. High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP Laundry Quality 719 State Street Plaone 759 Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State Clark Witbeck Co. WHOLESALE HARDWARE Schenectady, N. Y. LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY o. D. Eveleil1h OPTOMETRIST Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted 4:26 STATE STREET The Hofbrau Cabaret 162-64-66 Jay Street Dr. H. v. Grega DENTIST '779 State St., cor. Grove Pl.

The Smoke of Men Who Win A fresh-rolled \ Bull\ Durham cigarette almost says \Speed up I\ right out loud. Keen-eyed, clear- headed young fellows smoke \Bull Durham because it has the sparkle and the \punch\-the youthful vim and vigor.· Every time you \roll your own'' with ~'Bull'' Durham you open the door to Hustle • G£NUIN£ \BuLL.DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO \Bull\ Durham is unique among the wortd•s tobaccos. It is distinguished from all others by its wonderful mildness, its delicious mellow-sweet flavor and its distinctive aroma. That's because it's made of the very choicest of rich, ripe Virginia-North Caro- lina ''bright'' leaf-the smoothest and mel- lowest tobacco in the world. You get a lively smoke and a satisfying smo~~ when yo11 ••ron your own\ with \Bulr• Durham. Ask lor FBBIJJ package of ''papers'' wit/' each 6c sack. THB AltiERI CAB TOBACCO COMPADY ..

! I College Men are the best judges of the correct thing in young men's clothes. Hart Schaffner & Marx Varsity Fifty~Five models are the most popular styles in the leading colleges. T wenty~five dollars means economy in these clothes; the label is in them. H. S. & M. Suits and Overcoats, SIB to 130 Other Makes, S I 0 to $20. THE COLLEGE CLOTHIER. (hpYJ\ilht Hart Schaffner & M~ 240-244 STATE ST.

' ,, ' . - -·· . - ~ - -;.. . . . - . ·-.. . There's no question about it- The fit you see before you order. ·The fabrics are the pick of the world's be.st wollens. The price is about half. That's the distinction between our suits and those of the first-class custom tailors. To say nothing of our advantage in saving time for you. Sole agents in this Tri-city District for Rogers Peet Company Clothing Babbitt & Co. Albany's Greatest Clothiers At their New Store 67 No. PEARL STRE'ET THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as oue did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS Higgins' r DrawiniZ Inks ~ Eternal Writing Ink En~rossin~ Ink Taurine Mucilage Photo Mounter Paste l Drawing B()ard Pa•te Liquid Paste Office Paste Vea!etable Gltus etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS, INKS \ AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well .put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 525 State Street Free Order Service Opposite: Waiting Room 271 Ninth St. Telephone 3456 Brookly~ N. Y. TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade.

l i 1 t . I I . i ' 'l i .. j l ? I am Your Nearest Sboem;aker ·Calll270-W The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop .S. SOBELL, Manager. 603 Liberty Street, Corner Lafayette Street. NO LARG~ RENTS NO BIG EXPENSE No extra charges (TO YOU) and with e~pert shoemakers who understand their trade thoroughly, we can guarantee the hest workmanship. (FREE) call, and delivery all over the city. RUBBER SOLING AND HEELING A SPECIALTY. All Sizes and All Colors. ID4t Ntw 1ltruiknmr The Place for Banquets The \Homey\ Hotel Cor. State and Center. We Ask a Trial A. G. SPALDING & BROS. :Manufacturers of High Grade Implements and Clothing for all Athletic Sports and Pastimes. Write for a Catalogue. 52 STATE STREET, ALBANY. N.Y . . -ED, THE THE EARBER SHOP BARBER PATRONIZED BY UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass :tlew Shoe Store Just Shoes BUT we carry all sizes and widths. If it is Footwear we have it. Men's Shoes $3.00-$8.00 the pair, A toE width. LINDSAY BROS. CO. 311 State St., Cor. Wall The Big Shoe Dealers. Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who'a been Here. Let's Meet at Joe's Students' Tuck Shop Breakfast Between Classes. Light Lunches at all Times. Sandwiches made to order for Dances and Parties. 7f!t Eastern Ave., Back St. John's Church. \Pllone 298-W. Orders Delivered

The Concordiensis _VOL. 39 MAY 25, 1916 NO. 26 F'IERCEST BATTLE IN IDOL SCRAP HISTORY B.RINGS NO DECISION No One Seriously Hurt Despite Rough- ness. FRESHMAN FINISHES ON TOP. Is Clinging On Idol's Head When Scrap Ends. In the fiercest battle in the history of idol scrapping, 1919 ca1ne back with a punch dur- ing the early morning hours of Moving-up Day and fought the sophomores so valiantly that a predicted defeat was turned into a test of endurance. Both sides clain1ed vic- tory when the peace-bringing seven o'clock whistles blew-and there is much to say on both sides. The red and green paint was mingled with. unusual evenness over the Chinese god, but the fact that a member of 1919 was clinging to its head when peace was called seems to swing the decision slightly in favor of the freshmen. The even- ness of the fray rendered the customary rests and renewed attacks entirely out of the question; once the opposing factions had cotne together there was no further oppor- tunity to rally and the affair remained a wild melee for fully 40 minutes, the longest class engagements in memory. Despite the scrap's roughness no serious injury resulted. The disagreeable weather was probably the cause .of the quietness about the idol on Friday night. Occasional ~ival bands were seen on the campus and down town in auto-- mobiles or afoot; several members of both classes straggled back the next morning tell- ing tales of box cars and absent breeches and a freshman au to was dis1ne1nbered somewhere in the East, but no fighting oc- curred around the idol. Early Saturday morning, a squad of freshmen doused the idol with 'red. Sometime before dawn the clans began to gather, 1919 rallying around the idol in its defence, 1918 recruiting their ranks in the rear of South College in prepara- tion for the attack. At about six o'clock the offensive was under way and the main attack was launched at six twenty. The offensive rush was n1.assed but ad- vanced in poor o~rder and with little mon1en- tun1. A tight rope manned by four of the defenders was swung partially around the attacking body, effectually breaking its force and spreading its ranks so that the offensive V\'as scattered and disorganized. For well over half an hour the melee swayed around the idol with the opposing ranks hopelessly mixed. Knots of wrestlers circled the storn1 center. ~fen of both classes were continu- ally filtering in against the idol only to be squeezed out for others to take their places. Now and then some venturer would clatnb- er up upon a class-mate's shoulders, cravvl \'ildly along over heads and backs like a

H t;' I .t ;i ,: ,J ·I 'll· . I 'I ' ! . I . l l ' !. •, \ I t I ' ·I . j: ;,•' I • I ; l ·\ ' : ( l \' . I' ·l f ' i ' ~ ' i <\ j f '' . i: :··I· l· t . I I. I I . ·I '. 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. novice running logs, and eventually be cling- ing to the idol's head-from which he was sure to drop sooner or later, torn off by many hostile hands. When the peaceful whistle blew, freshmen and sophomores alike were backed up against the stone god in its <le- fense, but a freshman was dangling from its head. It was splotched all over with red and DR. F. H. GIDDINGS ON green alike. That's how the argument ended. We do not care to render a decision. 1917 AND 1916 WILL GIVE JOINT MEMOR1AL. Flag Pole to Be Erected On Terrace. 1916 and 191 '( have ar~ranged to unite in the presentation of a class memorial to the college. The gift wil be in the form of a flag-pole to be erected between the terrace walk and the wall mid-way between the two g-ates. DOUBLE E'NTRY EDUCATION. Addresses Phi Beta Kappa in Dr. Rich-· mond''s Home. Dr .. Franklin H.. Giddings of Columbia University wa:s the speaker at the meeting of the Upper Hudson Association of Phi Beta K.appa which was held Saturday night at the residence of Dr. Richmond. Dr. Giddings' subject was ~'Double Entry Education.\ He spoke of the tendency in modern education to have the students do things instead of only using books. He urged that the theo- retical side be squared with the practical side. There was a very interesting discussion fol- lowing the address in which Dr. Richmond Professor Bennett, Dr. Chase, Dr. March and others took part. + + SATURDAY'S SCORES. The pole, one hundred feet in height, will ~· be such as is generally used in .united States army barracks. The total cost of the staff and its erecting will be in the neigh ho·r- hood of five hundred dolars, of which the graduating class has already subsoribed its share. Dr. Richmond will under-write the remaining cost, and this sum will be returned to him next year by subscription from 191 \/. Drawings held in the drawing room of- fice of the engineering building for more than one year may be claimed as fol o·ws : May 24,8-10 A.M.; May 2\/ same time; May 29, 1 :30-4:30 P. M. - The Schenectady High School has just started a small editorial in newspaper form called the SPECTATOR. It sells for three cents a copy and is edited once a week. So far it has proved a gn-eat success as it adds both to the spirit and interest of the students. Union, 25; St. Johns of Brooklyn, 1. Harvard, 9; Princeton, 5. Michigan, 5; Penn., 2. Columbia, 2; N. Y. U., 1. Yale, 7; Cornell, 1. Fordham, 4; Armay, 2. Bates, \/ ; New Hampshire, 0. Bowdoin, 6; Tufts, 5. Maine, 6; Colby, 3. Navy, 7; Catholic, 4. Rensselaer, 5 ; Vermont, 3. Amherst, 6;; Wesleyan, 5. Chicago, 2; Purdue, 1. Phillips Exeter, 8; St. Anselm's, 0. Syracuse, 3 ; Michigan Aggies, 2. Rochester, 4; Hamilton, 1. Lehigh, 9; Lafayette, 2. U rsinus, 1 ; Swarthmore, 0. Yale Second, 15; Andover, 13. Holy Cross, 4; Brown, 3.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 HAMILTON JINX BURIED; BUFF AND BLUE FALLS IN A 9 TO 0 WHITEWASH. Jenkins, in Top Form, Scores Se,venteen Strike-Outs. MAY, AS USUAL, TRIPLES. The next inning was the one in which Steele, running for 'Collison, Beryl, Hum- mer and Rosekrans scored, making the score 8-0 ( and thus giving us a command- ing lead.) Again in the ninth Tub by Rose-- krans walked to first and in the natural order of things had completed the square before Whitman could put out three men. UNION. ab. h. Beryl and Moynihan Make Doubles-Four Runs Come In Sixth. Moynihan, 3b --------- 3 1 Zimmer, cf. ----------- 5 1 po. 0 0 0 2 a. :0 0 0 2 0 0 2 1 2 May, lf. -------------- 4 1 Collison, ss. ----------- 4 0 Hamilton's jinx has been ill for some time; our last Friday's 9-0 victory buried th ... ~ beast. From beginning to end there existed no doubt as to the final outcome of the game, ~hich was, however, fast and interest- ing. By all odds the star of the game and the absolute cont,roler of destiny was Jenks, vvho pitched splendidly throughout. \Vhitman, who is considered Hamilton's star twirler, struck out 8 n1en and gave 3 passes to first base, whereas Jenkins' record was17 and 7. Without doubt Carl pitched on that day his best game so far this season. He let one man reach third base and three get as far as second. Bill May again carried off the batting laurels by sending the ball over the right fielder's head for an easy 3 bagger. The others whose use of the club was particular- ly noteworthy are Baryl and Moynihan, both of whom drove the ball out for two baggers. In the initial inning things began to hap- pen. Moynihan walked and Zimmer reach- ed first by a fly to right field. May tripled, scoring Frank and \Zip.\ Hamilton's catch- er tagged Bill at home and both Collison and Beryl were out at first. No more runs were made until the fifth inning, when Gene Hummer was passed to first. \Tubby\ and Steele were put out, but Jenks came through with a single which scored Gene. Moynihan doubled and thus gave Jenks the opportunity to touch home plate. Beryl, c. -------------- 4 1 Hummer, rf. ---------- 3 0 Rosekrans, 2h. -------- 2 1 Steele, lb. ------------ 3 0 Jenkins, p. ------------ 4 1 15 0 2 8 0 Totals ------------- 32 6 27 HAMILTON. ab. h. po. 8 2 9 0 a. 2 0 0 0 Miler, c. ------------- 1 0 C.avanagh, cf. --------- 2 1 W. Gow, lb. ---------- 3 0 M. Gow, 1£. ------·---- 4 0 0 0 2 Behan, ss. ------------ 4 Higgins, 2b. ---------- 3 Paige, rf. ------------- 4 McLouth, 3b. --------- 2 Donoghue, 1 b. --------- 1 Aldrich, 3b. ----------- 1 \Vhitlnan, p. ---------- 3 Totals ------------ 28 1 3 2 0 3 0 0 1 2 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 2 2 27 12 Rnus- 1foynihan, Zimmer; Collison, Hu1nn1er, 2, Beryl, Rosecrans 2, Jenkins. Error-Whitman. Union ______ 2 0 0 0 2 0 4 0 1-9 H an1ilton ___ o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0-0 Three base hit-May. Two base hits- Beryl, Moynihan. First base on balls- Off Jenkins, 7; off \tVhitn1an, 3. Struck out -By Jenkins, 17; by \Vhittnan, R. Hit by pitcher-Moynihan and Collison by \Vhit- man.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. COMEDY OF ERRORS IS STAGED ON ALEX. FIELD St. Johns Routed By 25-1 Score. HUMMER BREAKS OWN RECORD. Scores Twenty Strike-outs While His Team- mates Are Making Twenty-one Hits. Two records were broken during the base- ball game between Union and St. Johns on Alexander Field, Saturday. Captain Gene Hummer struck out 20 of the men who faced him, and the home team scored 25 runs, which, according to some of the old-timers, is the largest tally made in their time._ In fact, the game was a walkaway, for the visitors only scored one run. During the first two O·r three innings the game was fairly close and the Schenectady lads made their runs on errors. It looked as if the St. John players knew what they were doing, though, when they tightened up with a man on thi~d and shut off several runs at the plate. UNI:ON. a b. Moynihan, 3b ------------- 7 Zimn1er, cf. ------------ 6 May, lf. --------------- -6 Collison, ss. ----------- 6 Beryl, rf -------------- 5 Greene, c. ------------- 4 Rosecrans, 2b --------- 5 Steele,1b. ------------- 3 Hummer, p. ----------- 6 Totals-------------- 48 ST. JOHNS. a b. }.Murphy, 2b. --------- 4 VV. 11urphy, ss.-------- 4 Ca·rey, r£. -----·-------- 4: McDonald, 1£. ---·------ 4 Carey, rf. ------------- 4 Goette, c. ------------- 2 Ready, cf. ------------ 3 Brogan, lb. -----·------ 3 McMahan, p. ---------- 3 Carey,p. -------------- 0 Merolla, 3b ------------ 2 Totals ------------- 29 h. 1 1 3 3 2 3 3 2 3 po. 1 0 0 1 0 20 3 2 0 21 27 h. po. 0 2 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 9 0 0 1 10 {) 0 0 0 1 1 3 24 a. 0 0 0 2 0 3 0 0 0 5 a. 5 l 0 1 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 12 The twirler for the Brooklynites received such poor support that it is no wonder that he was finally knocked out of the box. His successor did not seem to have anything for the Union batters hit him at will totalling 20 hits. Hummer was in fine form and had the visitors swinging at anything. In addition to his perfortnance for \strike-out king\ honors he only allowed three scratch hits. Runs-Moynihan, Zimmer, May 2, Colli- son 3, Greene 5, Beryl 3, Rosecrans 3, Steele 3,H ummer 4; McDonald. Speed with a mixture of slow curves and good control were too tnuch for the Brook- lynites. Larry Green, who has been laid up for the last two weeks with a damaged knee, was back in his old position and showed no ill effects. Babe Rosekrans tnade the longest hit made on Alexander Field this year, dur- ing a game when he slamn1ed a liner over the center fielder's head for three bases. The only other feature of the gatne vv-as that every batter on the home team got at least one hit. tfhe score: Errors - Collison, Greene, Rosecrans, Steele; J. Murphy 4, W. Murphy 2, McDon- ald, Goette, Brogan, McMahan 2. St. Johns ___ o 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0- 1 Union ____ o 1 0 4 2 6 9 3 *-25 Sacrifice hits-Stele, Merolla. Two base hits-. Zimn1er, Beryl, McDonald. Three base hi ts-Rosecrans, Steele. Struck out-By I-I un1mer, 20; by ~~cMahan, 4. Bases on balls-By Hummer, 2; by McMahan, 5; by Carey, 1. Time-2 :00. Un1pire-Blanch- ard.

:THE. CONCORDIENSIS. 13 WESLEY AN VS. UNION ON CAMPUS TO'MORROW. PHI ,GAMMA DELTA WINS INTERFRATERNITY BOWLING .. Red and Black Squad Has Tendency to \Blow.\ LAWSON, '19, A STAR. Seeholzer Pitching Fine Ball After Three Year's Probatio·n. A special letter from The Wesleyan Argus states that the Red and Black varsity, wh1ch vvill meet Union tomorrow afternon on Alexander Field, is in excellent shape and expectant of a victory. The nine from Mid- dletown has been greatly bettered since the opening of the season by the ascendency of several freshmen \finds\ into the first string squad, and by the excellent pitching of See- holzer who was recently made eligible by the faculty aft~r a probation lasting through three yea,rs. It is very probable that he will be in the box tomorrow. Beeman, Markthaler, Becker, Chapin and Stookey are the veteran players of at least one year's experience. Westcott is a consistent tnounds- man and may possibly face the Garnet in- stead of Seeholzer. Lawson, playing at short stop, is the star of the infield. He is a f~resh- tnan. Galb:raith is High Man With 505; Do·wns Second With 460. The final match in the Interfraternity Bowling League resulted in a victory for the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. For winning this contest the fraternity bowlers will re- ceive a trophy donated by the Star alleys. The last game of the contest was exciting from beginning to end and only after the last man had rolled was the contest decided. Galbraith was high man, with Downs follow- ing closely. The scores: PHI GAMMA DELTA. Osterhout -- ____ 127 122 145 394 Loughlin _______ 190 138 127 455 Ketchum _______ 151 136 132 419 Baird __________ 123 139 127 389 Galbraith ---- __ 180 148 177 505 Totals ________ '/71 683 CHI PSI. Hooper ________ 137 Waller _________ 130 Powell _________ 118 Downs __ _ _____ 152 139 109 14:8 164 159 708 2163 114 390 146 385 167 433 144 460 130 428 The results of Wesleyan's last few games Beckett ________ 139 have showed that the team plays great ball during the early innings and consistently blows up in the closing frames. This is il- lustrated by the Red and Black's game with .l\mherst last Saturday, wnen the former lead 5-1 until the last inning, then blew up hopelessly and threw the contest away with five errors. Wesleyan 3, Bowdoin 1. Wesleyan 7, Worcester Tech. 3. Wesleyan 1, Columbia 2·. W eslyan 3, Amherst 8. V/ esleyan 2, Da·rtmouth 6. Wesleyan 5, Amherst 6. Wesleyan 2, Dartmouth 7. Totals ________ 676 719 701 2096 The annual con;1mencement costume par- tde, which will this year occur on June 13, will nutnber the following classes in its ranks: '46, '56, '66, '71, '76, '81, '86, '91, '96, '01' '06, '11, '13. The following men have climbed into the thi~d round of the Slazenger tournament: Gillespie, Beckett, Loughlin, C, F. Brown, Preston.

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Publioshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLE·GE Entered at the P·ostoffice at Schenectady, N:. Y., a-s Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Ralph Knight '17 ---------- Posi Upsilon House MANAGING EDITOR. Fawcett W. Porter '17 ---------- Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR. William C. Loughlin '17, Phi Gamma Delta House LITERARY EDITOR David F. Chaptnan '17 --------- Delta Phi House ASST. LITERARY EDITOR Rudolph W. Scltwartz '17 ---- 37 Glenwood Blvd ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. G. Carey, Jr., '18 E. L. Newell '18 F. G. Bascom '18 S W. Talbot '18 H. L. Cook '18 REPORTORIAL STAFF. H. H. Newton '19 Adam Bailey '19 G D. Rosenthal '19 W. R. Barnett '19 C A. Brind, Jr., '19 A. B. Dougal '19 E. }. Griswold '19 K. H. Gorham '19 V. H. Scales '19 Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscripuon: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication ·Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. We Congratulate- DAVID F. CHAPMAN WALLACE S. GIRLING F-AWCETT W. PORTER HAL A. SCOBY £1lttnrtal.a the question over and fairly ·exatnine it on both sides. Having done this, they will .certainly see that there is only one right-side..,up, no matter how great a pity it seems to turn the other down. We know before writing this that a majority of the men have already been over the question. and s.ee plainly which side goes up and which down. We plead for more than that; we want every man in college to see it. Then themem- bers of the athletic b~ard, when they vote \yes will feel the approval of a united college going in with their ballot, rather than know that their \yes\ is being pushed along above the heads of the few who didn't bother to walk around and look at the o.ther side of the question when it was on exhibition. There is no Union University Spirit. There ts a College Spirit-and a grand one-but it loses itself completely on the road to Albany. It re- ceives no impetus on this end of the road, and there is no one beckoning it on at the other end. \Ve wish to be understood in this. We do not in the least infer that it is either held back at this end nor repulsed at the other, but simply that the intervening distance is far too great for it to cross without aid. And it receives no aid because all its extra steam is used up to a better advant- age right at home. We are all grown-up sons of the same fatnily, A question of the utn1ost itnportance to Union athletics will be thrashed out \YES\ by the athletic board in its next meet- l.ng. Shortly before Con1mencem;ent' vote will be taken on a motion to ex- dude every man from our teatns who is not an but we have gone into different trades and we don't see much of each other any more. The old- est of us has developed a considerable hobby for going into athletics during his spare time. N atur- ally, it is costing him money. He is providing- for this by levying a matriculation fee and charg- ing admission to spectators. He is enthusiastic in his hobby, and lte would just as soon radiate son1e of his enthusiasm upon his brothers, but business is business, they seldotn see one another, and he notices that they take but fitful interest. Sometimes they cotne over and play ball with him a little, but they do not help out with any of the taxes. They would like pretty well to see hitn win in his gan1e•s, but they never get time to cotne over and cheer for hhn. * * * The Albany departments are not an integral part of us, and undergraduate in Union College-eliminating, then, all gra.dt1ate students and all students in the Albany departments. This will be far and away the greatest administrative step taken in our ath- letics this year, whichever way the decision goes. We want the undergraduates to feel this, to turn they never will be.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 There is another thought which comes here and which, we believe, bears still more weight. Next week or next year one of the colleges with whom we a.re glad to have athletic relationship is going to respectfully suggest that we play only men against them who belong to Union College. In making the suggestion, they will point out that they, and the other universities with who1n they keep company, have taken this step some tim·e ago. They will explain that it is hardly £air for a whole fan1ily to take after one man. Either they will do this or they will overlook us when they are making out their schedule. Thus we would slip downwards in a day the distance it has taken us years to climb. Or, should they be more thoughtful of us and talk it over first, we would undoubtedly end up in n1aking the change --after we had been told what is right and what i c; wrong by a college no better than ourself. No, we don't want this to happen. Those men vvho have negelcted to examine the other side of the question must admit this. butter fingers from Union College than a star from, say, Albany Law, who may some day he the cause of one of our most respected rivals publishing it far and wide that they won't play us again unless we me.et them on equal terms? .And after all, is baseball itself going to suffer so terribly? Were we to hew the Albany men ft om the squad tomorrow, there would, of course, be a yawning hole left but, if Fred Dawson had known at the first indoor practice that no Albany n1a terial would be forthcoming, he would have concentrated on the best we could show here at home and the result would have been nearly a~ good-and infinitely more satisfactory to the thinking men, at least, who support the team. We would have it thoroughly understood that we are not in any sense casting personal darts of n1alice against Albany member>S of the squad. Should these words come to their notice, we sin- cerely trust that they will interpret them in the spirit in which they were written and, doing this, see that they would feel the same way were our positions interchanged. We are not ungrateful for their yoeman services to the Garnet this year. We are simply choosing the lesser of two evils--cutting off our hand to save our arm. So, in ending, we bid the undergraduates think this thing through, for themselves. When they have thought it through, , they will have arrived Even this admittance, perhaps, will not neu- tralize the sharpness of the thought which strikes them first and renders them indiffernt to any fur- ther inveGtigation. It will lower the standard of our teams, they say. Where would we be this Spring without the Albany men, and where would we have been in past years without such tnen, for instance, as Dan O'Keefe? We want win- at one conclusion-that this motion should be ning teams, don't we? pa-ssed by the athletic board. Then, we hope, In the first place, we are going to feel this step they will mention it to some member of the in only one of our four major sports, reckoning board that the college is back of him for \yes.\ from our athletic situation as it has been this year and during several years past. This sport is, of course, baseball. Now then, we ask the dis- senters to give this question the fair, thoughtful answer of a man who cares a fig or more for his Alma Mater: Wouldn't they rather see a tean1 of l!nion College men go out on Alexander Field and get walloped soundly than see a victory won partly by men who are, to be bluntly candid, out- siders; who come fro1n a department which is not lending its spirit in support-which is not a part of us? If you who read this are a dissenter, wouldn't you rather see in the field a hopeless

16 THE ,CONCORDIENSIS. + STUDENTS MEET~NG, MAY 21, '16 (• + + ++++++++++•++++++++ Arnold Hooper issued a call for those wishing to try out for the position of Song and Cheer Leader. Shortly afterward it was announced that \Hoop\ had been elected to fi 11 this office next year. As Gene did not appear, Tubby Rose- krans gave the baseball repo~t. He thought a long time and then decided that, as we beat Han1ilton 9-0, no remarks were neces- sary. \And as for St. Johns, you all saw that game anyway,\ ended Tubby. Of the two teams which we play this week, W es- leyan on Friday and Rutgers on Saturday, the former is evidently the most to be feared. As always, Guy Beckett rea9 his never listened to nor corrected minutes of the previous tneeting. We wonder if he will be glad when he can watch some one else perform the sec•retary's duties. Wally Girling had a 5-1 tennis victory to report this week. Last Saturday when the Colgate team came to Union diTectly after defeating several other coleges, there was some doubt as to our chances. These wor·~ ries proved unnecessary. This Monday was one of those special days--which have become the rule rather than the exception of late,-when Charlie \¥ aldron, to use his own expression, \bab- bled on'' for a time. With the words \ex- hibit B\ he unfurled a banner beaTing this: STUDENT STUNT TROPHY COM EN CEMENT 1915 WON BY 1918. As it happened, the last numerals were absent but this he explained was so only be- cause the con1.mittee had just recently re- awarded this prize, this time to 1918. \These trophies whicl1 are to be given every year will be great 'to carry in your re-union parades/' was one of the facts emphasized. The !fest of the time Charlie reiterated the great necessity for the presnce of the student body during commencement week, and the effect this would have upon the alumni who he said are becoming stronger and better organized every day. LITTLE TRAGEDIES. rrhe n1an struck a match to see if the gaso- line tank of his automobile was empty. It wasn't. * * * 1-\he man speeded up to see if he couldn't beat the train to the crossing. * * * The man set the alarm clock to see if he could beat his wife to his trousers' pockets. He didn't. * * * The tnan looked down the barrel of his gun and pulled the trigger to see if it was en1pty. It wasn't. * * * The n1.an asked the girl to ma,rry him to see if she was engaged. She wasn't. * * * The man blew out the gas to see if the asphyxiation tales were jokes. They were not. THE CON CORDY MOVING PICTURES. Dirt Done Jim Taylor, one of Zelig's n1ost gripping stories of love and false accusation. The CreJ?e Hangers, a two-reel tragedy, featuring the whole Union faculty. Ships that Pass in the Night, featuring Phil Maller and Tubby Rosecrans. \' .. ( ,. '· I· .t I ~: '' ' t ~. J ,,, \;( :,:..

,: t I I 1. l' I; f r ( \.J. 'l It I ~: '' ' t ~. J hi >~ THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 1917 WINS INTER-CLASS MEET. Three Upper Classes Finish Neck and Neck In Fast Meet. In the inter-class track meet, held on Sat- urday afternoon, the three upper classes ~rere close contestants for first honors. The juniors won over the seniors by three and a half points while the seniors beat the sophomores by half a point. The totals were: Seniors, thirty-seven; juniors, forty and one- half; sophomores thirty-six and one- half; freshmen, twenty-six. Mallen '16 was the high individual point winner. Summaries: 100 yard dash-Won by Morrison, '17 ; Mallen, '16, second; Taylor, '18, third; Hyatt, '17, fourth. Two mile run-Won by Hance, '18; Mc- Lean, '18, second; Newton, '16. Time, ten 1ninutes, forty-eight seconds. 120 yard high hurdles-Won by Mallen, ':16; Y ounis, '18, second; Coleman, '17; third. Time, 17.3 seconds. 440 yard d.ash-Won by Stebbins, '19; Newman, '18, second; Taylor, '18, third; Cunninghatn, '19, fourth. Time, 55.4 sec- onds. One mile run-\Von by Phillips, '19; Mor- ris, '18;; Loughlin, '17. Time, five minutes, three seconds. 220 yard low hurdles--Mallen, '16; Hyatt, '17; Lyman, '19. Time, 29.1 seconds. I-Ialf n1.ile runs-Moore, '18; Stebbins, '19; McGarty, '19; Watts, '19. Time, 2 1ninutes, 4 seconds. 220 yard dash-Mor~rison, '17; Mann, '16 ; Calhoun, '18; Downs, '17. Time, 23.2 sec- onds. High jun1p-Miller, '17; Mallen, '16; 11isher, '18, and Jameison, '17, tie. Dis- tance, 5 feet 1 1-2 inches. Sixteen pound shot put-Stoller, '16; Bow- man, '19; DeBois, '18; Mallen, '16. Distance, 36 feet, 5 inches. Pole vault-Jamieson, '17; Miller, '17; Snell, '19; Frees, '19. Distance, 9 feet, 6 inches. Broad jump-Mallen, '16; Miller, '17; 'faylor, '18; Fraser, '18. Distance, 21 feet, 4 1-4 inches. Sixteen pound hamer throw-· Stoller, '16; J an1.ieson, '1 '{; Hay, '18; Haun, '1 \1. Dis- tance, 1'02 feet, 4 3-4 inches. UNION DEFEATS COLGATE IN MOVING-UP DAY MATCH. Scores Easy Victory by 5-l Score. Union defeated Colgate at tennis last Saturday by a score of five to one. The re- sults were as follows: Becket, Union, defeatM· ed Kingsley, Colgate, 6-0, 7-5, 2-6; Turner, Colgate, defeated Soler, Union, 2-6, 7-5, 6-4; Brown, Union, defeated Johnson, Colgate, 6-2, 6-4; ·Girling, Union, defeated BurchM ard, Colgate, 6-2, 6-4. In the doubles Girling and Brown defeat- ed Johnson and Burchard 6-2, 6-4; Soler and Beckett trimtned Turner and Kingsley, 7-5, 6-2. Colgate tied Amherst 3-3 in a recent n1atch. Inasn1.uch as Amherst beat us 6-0, -vve more than justified ourselves by the score of our victory over An1herst. SAD BUT TRUE. A green little freshman on a bright sumn1.er's day, Some che1nicals n1ixed in a green little way. The green little grasses now tenderly wave, O'er the green little £reshn1an's green little grave. E.G. J/E. S. Union will cross racquets with Rutgers on the campus courts Saturday afternoon be- fore the Rutgers ball game.

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS. PLATTSBUR:G E.NROLLMENT HAS PASS ED 8,000 M.ARK. Is Now Incteasing at Rate of 200 a Day. HARVARD SENDING MOST MEN. Union Rate·d as Sixteenth in Enrollment List. The enrollment for the training camp at Plattsburgh has recently passed 8,000 and is now increasing at the average rate of about 200 a day. Should Cong~ress extend government aid to n1en who otherwise are unable to tale advantage of the camps, it will mean an average enlistment of at few- est 500 men a day in the Eastern Depart- tnent alone, ~ccording to tho·se in charge of the enrollment. During February the aver- age daily enrollment was twenty-three men a day, in March the average inceased to twen- ty-eight a day, in April to 103 a day, in the fi·rst week of this month to 146 a day, and the average is now about 200. Mass. Inst. Tech. ----------------------·-----140 N:. Y. University -----------------..--------110 Dartmouth ------- ---- ... ---.--- ----------- 95 Col. City New York ---------..--------- 80 Amherst ------ ------------------------ 69 Michigan ------ ------ ----------------- 60 Lehigh --------- ------------------------ 45 Penn. State -------------------------·---- 44 Rensselaer ---------- ------------------ 40 Union College ----------------------- 40 Johns Hopkins ----------------------- 29 Boston University -------------------- 29 Worcester Poly. ---------------------- 28 U · £ v· · · 21\:1 ntv. o 1rg1n1a -------------------- ' ·George Washington University -------- 25 Trinity ---------- -------------------- 21 l(nO·X -------- ---- ------------------- 20 Brooklyn Polytechnic ----------------- 20 Georgetown-------- ---·-------------- 18 R utge1'\s ---------- ---------- --------- 14 Minnesota--------- ------------------- 14 Hamilton -------- -------------- ----- 14 Colgate ---- ------------------------- 5 Many other instituions have fewer than five alumni and students enrolled. Of the 8,000 already enrolled about 4,000 are college graduates or undergraduates. Harvard tops the list, with Yale, Princeton .. Colun1bia, Pennsylvania, Cornell, Williams, and the Massachusetts Instituet of Tech- nology following in the order named. The Princeton enrollment is, when the size of the alutnni organization and the student body is taken into consideration, the highest of all SIXTEEN UNDERGRADUATES ADMITT-ED TO NAVAL CRUISE Four Men Rejected But Changed Require- ments Will Alow Them to Go. Of the twenty Union College 1nen who have applied for admittance to this year's naval cruise but four have been rejected. Since the time when these men were reject- ed, however, there has been a change in the !fequirements, so there is still a chance of them entering. The men who have been accepted and who will take the cruise are: the colleges. Here are the enrollments to date by univer- sities and colleges, the totals including both alumni and students~ Harvard-------- -------------------- 846 Yale---------------------------- ____ 4'13 Princeton------ -----------------------404 Columbia --------- __________________ 26'1 Cornell ______________ -----·----------219 Pennsylvania------ -------- __________ 186 Williams ____ ---------------- _______ 149 R. Persons, M. Brunet, E. E. Garrison, A. W. Ladd, A. S. Ladd, F. J. Campbell, J. Aken, D. Gardenier, J. Bennett, W. Dalton, E. C. Vrooman, E. Brandow, L. J. Walrath, 0. F. Hawn, R. Morrison, and E. G. Hild- ner. l ' l l

THE CONCORDIENSlS. 19 + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + mixture of smoke from the shells and our guns, gas and fog, lac~rymatory shells, etc., + + ~· A LETTER FR,OM THE TRENCHES.+ gave us a fair imitation of an inferno, not to + + mention ammuniti()n limbers coming up at the gallop; the men all wearing gas helmets, horses foaming at the mouth from the ef- Editorial Note : The following letter was received by the acquaintance of a member of the senior class. \V e have secured permis- sion to print it, believing that it should be of interest to the undergraduates. While ex- pressions are used by the author which we naturally do not sanction in THE CON- CORDY, we have made no deletions. We believe they are justified in this case. The author is a lieutenant in a Canadian regi- ment. 27/4/16. Reserve Billets Dear C--: Many thanks for your last of the seventh in st. and I have had a storn1y day. We came in here yesterday and I got to sleep at midnight, only to be hauled out of bed at 4:30 A.M. as Fritz started blowing hell out of what remains of this village. I prompt ly betook myself to the cellar and at 5 :30 we were treated to a gas attack. We had good warning and were ready although some of us got quite a bit of gas before we got our helmets on. It passed over with the smoke which accompanied it and abo~ut two hours later we got another dose worse than the first one and then a hell of a shelling. The Bos.ches attacked the front line on our right and things certainly looked lovely for a while, but we beat them off although I've not heard details. It's quite a novel sight as its my first experience of gas and as we are about a thousand yards behind the firing line we got no warning until it was on us. The intense gloom caused by the fects of the gas and the ceaseless banging of our guns of which there are a hell of a lot around us here. The front line escapes the noise of our own guns which is pretty bad and the whole ground rocks. I'm afraid we are in for a lively summer round here and I sincerely hope my luck holds as there will b~ some great sights to see, and I'd hate to miss anything. It's a queer war and man is certainly an adaptable creature. At the present moment :fs a perfect afternoon and we are in a cot- tage at the side of the road, our batteries are blazing away and a 9.2 battery just puts the lid on the noise, the cottage is swaying and one has to shout to be heard, yet two men are playing chess, one is reading and two of us writing. A ceaseles stream of men going up and down the road from the trenches ( \\lvork parties) and an occasional ambulance dashing by. A typical lively day on the Western front and probably reported as \our artillery was active at-\ 0 by the way old man, don't bother to send me Life as I subsc·ribe to it, also the Saturday Even- ing Post and Punch. Well this is not going to be a very long letter as I have got a headache and bad mouth (gas) so must stop. Our casualties today have been very light but this pron1ises to be a strenuous week and we go into the trenches in a couple of days. Ever yours, R. C.,

20 THE CON·CORDIENSIS. ••••••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••••••••• • • • • MISUNDERSTANDINGS. TWO SONNETS -By \Q.\ +t• + ••••••••••••••••••• HE SPEAKS: l. TO MY WIFE. When I am dead and thrown into the ground For long October rains, when Autumn dies, To turn into the sod despite the sound Lie all you want about me if it soothes You any. ·Tell them this and that, they will Believe you without ;doubt. Whatever moves Your heart-no, not your heart (there must be still Some right in you), what stirs your Jealousy Oak coffin and the brick-laid vault that vies With Mayor So-and-So's in the next plot, 'Twill make no difference, I'm sure of that. You've always been so busy, such a lot Say, and I will do the best I can. . People look at me, the subtlety Of gossips in their faces. I'm a man And you know a woman's mind can make A havoc with a man if she sees fit. Of things to do, a meeting, or a hat To buy, or something of the sort. Of course We knew that marriage was a matte-r of Acquaintance solely, so I have no source From which I may complain. I really love You. Not surprised? You'll smoke a cig- arette To calm your nerves a bit, and then-forget. II. CONTENTMENT. I wonder what he'll do when I am gone. I can't imagine. He's more helpless than A cat; except for me ere very long He'd be simply an ordina~ry man. There is one thing I can be sure of though, And that is he will never see, nor try To see another woman-like a foe You're tightening up the thumb-screws--for your sake I hope you're happy while you're doing it. But you'll grow tired, I think, of lying so, And wish me ba~k, your lover and your foe. SHE SPEAKS: Why did you disappear and leave me so, Why did you do it ?-not a word to tell The reason for your going, to let me know If it was irretrievable or a well Planned ruse to try my proud sincerity. Cursed be my pride that would not let me . g1ve My lips to yours without condition.-Be As you are my heart, I cannot live A different, a beg-praise life. I say You wished complete surrender but my p~ride Would not allow, despite the empty day He will avoid all and only sigh That I'm not here~ And Sundays he will And the more empty dusk when at my side You used to give the love I wished so much. Be as you are my heart, God made you such. make A point to bring some violets and lay 'fhem on my grave and then go home to take A nap and newspapers to pass the day. I-Ie'll not, like Jack Hilaire, when his wife died, Within a month bring hon1e a second bride. Rutgers will oppose the Garnet on Alex- cnder Field Saturday afternoon. Tomorrow's game with Wesleyan will start at 4 :30 o'clock. ',, (i 1 '* '' ·~ .~ ~ ' l

',, (i 1 '* '' ·~ .~ ~ ' l iTHE CONCORDIENSIS. 21 EXAM WEEK. Sleep. Sleep? Wadd' ye mean? I've clean forgot the word. What signifies this little lisp, I know somewhere I've heavd. Sleep. Sleep ! Now I know, But Gosh! You can't kid me!! For it's so long since I have slept, That I can scarcely see. Sleep. Sleep? Gee, I can't! Tho' heavy are my eyes, But son1ething keeps a-waking me In spite of all my tries. Sleep! Sleep!! Give me sleep! Exams will soon be o'er, And then I'll lay me down and sleep And sleep, and sleep, and SNORE!! A. G. L. '18. PLATTSBURG NOTES It is advisable to read books on military matters before attending camp. I should recommend Infantry Drill Regulations, and the Manual of Military 1\raining, by Capt. James A. Moss, as being the most important and comprehensive of those listed. * * * * * \The purpose of the camp will be to give each attendant as much of the fundamental education of an officer as can be imparted in the duration of the camp.\ * * * * * \A certain definite routine will be pre- scribed for all, including infant1ry train- ing and rifle practice.\ Optional work in any arm of the service comes in the after- noon, about three times a week. (+ + + Y. M. C. A. + + + Sunday evening at 6 :45 will be held the first \get-together\ of the men who have promised to assist in the Association work next year. At this itme plans will be out- lined and general work discussed. Charley Male and others will speak, and an interest- ing hour is assured. All men who have declared their inten- tion of sharing their time and abilities with the Y. M. C. A. work are expected to be present. Men who have not taken this step but are interested and would be willing to at least lend support are invited to be present. \Attendance at the camp will be divided into war strength companies (about 150 men) of Infantry cotnmanded by officers of the Regular Army, whose duties cover not only those of instruction, but also super- vision and the health and general welfare of their commands. Attendants are on a This week will occur the last vesper ser- vice to be held in the chapel this yea~r. The Commencement Week service will be held in the college garden an alumnus presiding. The Board of Publication of the 1916-17 I-Iandbook are busy and progressive, and it is expected that the finest Handbook yet produced, will be brought out by them. It will be bigger and better than ever, and will contain all facts and information of import- ance to freshmen and others. cadet basis.\ * * * * *\ Don't think you will be a thorough sold- ier after attending one camp, but-you will know much more about ~ilitary matters than you did before. Outstanding accounts, pledged for the support of the Association are gradually being collected. A hearty co-operation of the student body, in securing these funds will be appreciated.

22 THE CONCORDlENSlS. Princeton won a smashing victory over the Navy, Columbia and Pennsylvania 'varsity eight-oared crews in the Child's cup race on the Schuylkill river. The conference on international relations, for university students, will be held at West- ern ReseQ\ve University between June 21 and ] uly 1. Some of the important subjects of American's foreign policy are to be discuss- ed by experts of national reputation. Students desi,ring dormitory rooms for year should notify the college office by Y. M. C. A. No decision has been made as to engaging a general secretary for next year, and should it be necessary to pass through the year without one, the association must needs rely solely on student help and interest. Next year's work must show progress over the past, and this may be assured if the student body work together for the associa-- tion. The subject £or the next Extemporaneous Prize Debate will be \Labor Troubles in America.\ · The debate is open to all under .. graduates. June 1. ~-------------------------~------------------------~ Where The Peerade Started • T • C) 0 a XI u ~ rr2 ..... PHONE .f!j ~ z 8-4-4 i-t s z PHONE el .... T • (j ~ ~ ax I p • T • ~ 0 a X I u \' t'1 .... PHONE 1:!1 >< 2 < 8-4-4 E-e -~ ~ z PHONE ~ ..... T • -~ n ~ a X I 0 • --·. ' \ f:\ \ ' ' ' _( ' ' '

\ i \ i When you want anyth,ing at QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just T e I e ph o n e 1 2 8' 5 Quinn Delivers Free With Hasty Messengers Geo. A. Cassedy Co. Established 1850 Dealers in VICTROLAS, PIANOS, SHEET MUSIC & MUSICAL MERCHANDISE 464-466 State Street, Schenectady, New York. Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Section South. College Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all Kinds of Wax Polishes 212 SO. CENTRE ST. Steefel Broa. ALBANY, N. Y. For thirty•one years, Steefel Quality Clothes have been meeting the requirements of the best dressed men so satis- factorily that the Steefellabel stands not only for a guaran- tee of the highest satisfaction, but also for a just pride of in- herited tradition. SPRING SUITS $10 to $50 JOE. NUSBAUM Schenectady's Leading HATTER AND HABERDASHER 336 STATE STREET. You Men Who want more than style-who value fit .and service, will appre- ciate the unexcelled advantages our Big Hen'R Dei,t. affords. HANAN SHOES $7 and $8 • SUIRE FlT SHOE~ $4 to $8 I . ' \Patton & Hall's I I l SCHENIDCTADY & SARATOGA l oc . c::c:: .. -- ' 5

ISTA8L:IIH£D f·8tl ~- ··., . M~DISON AVENUE COR. FORTY·FOURTH ST.R.E£1' NEW YQRK Ready made Garments for Dress or Sporting Wear Hngiish Hats, Caps, Shoes and Furnishings Riding Suits and odd Breeches in cotton or silk Special equipment for Polo Norfolk Jackets or odd Knickers in Shetland Homespuns Flannel Trousers for Golf and Tennis Light-weight Mackintoshes for saddle work, Motoring or Golf Motor Clothing, Liveries and Kennel Coats BosTON BRANCH: 149 Tremont Street Send for 11/uJtrated Catalogue NEWPORT iRANCH: 220 Bellevue A venue Cigar• Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Phamacy, 600 Union St. CHAS. R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles. Hot Water For the Shave or Bath A cupful or a tubful is always available where there's a Gas Water Heater. Low prices ~-- Easy Payments Mohawk Gas Co. . Phone 2500 Caps, Gowns and Hoods to the American Colleges and U niversitiea from Atlantic to Pacific. Class contracts a spec~alty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and associations solicited. . • The Schenectady Trust Co., 318-320 State Street Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting . S. E. STANES' Art Store No. 7 New York Central Colonnade N. Y. Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. L'· 't I

L'· Telephone 3871- J. Pan tin's Orchestra William A. Pantin, Director and Manager 824: State St., Schenectady, N. Y. Safety First! SAVE YOUR TEETH First, Last and All the Time. BEST Office in Sc·henectady for Skilled Service, Honest Advice- and Reasonable Prices. Hill Dental Co. 452 State Street. J. Ward White SPORTING GOODS ------ .... 431 State S·treet. Clothing Furnishings Hats We're ready whenever you are. Why not come today' The newest and beat in each department. Wells & Coverly Troy. The beat is Gioscia's Orchestra 301 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone 1452-R IT'S JERSEY That's All You Need to Know About. ICE CREAM

.Endorsed by Union's Fraternities NUTTALL'S Teas, Coffees, Baking Powder. 'Phone 2845 For Samples. Compliments of Everything Electrical T · JAME.S F. BURNS . ·. imeson & Fronk . Electrical Supplies Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. Undertakers · 442 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. H. R. 'Phone 14'1 134 State Street · Automobile Service Schenectady, N. Y. A. L. HAMES News·Room Newspapers and Magazines Delivered Free to the College 108 Nott Terrace, Schenectady, N.Y. WILL 1915-1916 Secure You as a Depositor in Schenectady Savings Bank CORNER STATE AND CLINTON. It's a Be.ginning in Economy. Is your visiting card taken from Astor Text? Commencement orders taken now. The Gleason Book Co. 104 JAY ST., GLEASON BLDG. \On Your Way to the Post Office.\ The Edison American Plan Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, Ne Y. All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5.00 Sanitary Factories Inspected Dairies International Ice Cream ALWAYS THE BEST 20th Century Lunch Chocolate Pie with Whipped Cream Our Specialty 154 JAY STREET \On your way to the Post Office\ I :.f ;~· \' I i.'

I :.f ;~· \' I i.' Mr. L. F. Burke, Schenectady, N. Y. City of Chicago awarded us contract for 150 Model17-E Excelsior Motorcycles. Other com- petitors were $13.00 lower each. Quality counts. EXCELSIOR MOTOR MFG. & SUPPLY. L. F. BURKE, Boston Sq., 230 So. Center S~treet Excelsior and Henderson Motorcycles-Bicycles and Smith Motor Wheels. \The College. Photographer'' GARNET 1903 19(l) 1904 191() WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1Dl2 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE. '17 C.lleQe Repreaemtative NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. ••schenectady's Distinctive Store¥\ Our superior buying facilitie!3 insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow,s Head\ 'lfor9.5 ¢,· Ashby-27aia. Lexicon.,-J~in. itRRow COLLARspting Style. in two heights CLUETT. PEABODY &CO.INC.JIAAKtRS CLEANLINESS . lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. WHEN 'Phone 4:489 IT RAINS IN A HUR.RY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 44-89 KILDER & HICKS

II ere•• veryw Wherever Men gather- discuss· compare· reveal· exchange ideas -Especially when good clothes are in evidence, \The House of Houghton\ stands high. It has been said that the average man can de· teet a '' I-loughton'' suit even in a large crowd. Very recently in a gathering of young men, there being twenty-seven pre- sent. The ''Houghton'' label appeared in eighteen coats out of twenty-seven. Now Boy's there must be something to it-·· It can't all be fiction. DU 455 STATE STREET S0heneetedy ....,.., Art Press • i

