CJ& e CONCORDIENSIS ~~ ::: ::; .:: ; : :: Amherst Wins 30--16 VOLUME JY FEBRLIARY 4, 1y1C) NU. 13 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE Tb~ college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : ::t. C'Jeu:r•e• leading to the degree of A. B. CL..ASSICAL CouRSlt A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B-This course may he pur sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun 011 entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. 2, ()ourae leacllng to the degree Gf Ph. B. LA ~£IN -SCIENTI:F'IC CouRSI£- This course offers ltatin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B.. S. SciENTIFIC Couas~- This course is based upon the atudy of mathematics and the sciences. · 4. Cour•e leading to the degree of B. E .. G~tN~RAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro~ fessio11 and some training in history, economics C'Ul.d modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE- This differs frorn the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. Ex,EC1'RICA~ ENGINEI£RING CouRSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engine~riag education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 1. Cour•e• lea•tng to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE or M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists e>f lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Cou~tsa LEADING TO DEGRU or M. S. in E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists C>f lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CoultSE LEADING ro DEGlU!:! or Pu. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for adrnia- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For i:atalogues or other information address F. C. BARN•S, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L. V. He·rrin~ton Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925 .. W ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE. Founded 1838-A complete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely· increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate responsibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physic·s, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. 'The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and other communication-s should be ad- dressed to THOMAS ORDWAY, M.D., Dean. · Albany, N. Y. DE·PARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol It occupies a building wholty devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address : ALFRED B. HuES'tED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUI'l\S PRESSED 2 5o. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 ~ott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate

The Concordiensis VOL. 39 FEBRUARY 4, 1916 NO. 13 SUCCESS OF PROM. ASSURE)). Europe's Orchestra to Furnish Music. It's like a Chinese play~it continues (fo,r) (four) days. It's like a Shakespearean drama---it leads ttp to the place of greatest interest. It's like the profoundest optimist------it is all best. Why tell you what 'it\ is? Could it be ought but Junior Week, the gay, the spright- ly, the happy. And as for the 'lplace of g1reat.., est interest\ that means simply that TO- NIGHT AT THE GYMNASIUM IS THE CLIMAX, THE JUNIOR PROMENADE of 1917. Of that we will tell yott son1ething, by no means all. Europe has done what Ford couldn't do. The boys are out o£ the trenches and eight are here for tonight. Lok out tor Europe, but especially look out tor the vivacious drummer for he is the most famous charger (at least, he should be, for he is the best). And as tor decora- tions, the gym will be \spruced\ up as never before. As usual tulle will be in evidence. The girls, therefore, may, form utual C()nven- • • tence, save thetrs for to1norow night. Doubtless everyone is by this time weaty and hungry. Enter W einneps, a la carte. Y ?u see this implies expense and it goes wtth a la mode. The committee, so Philip Downs, chairman, tells me, has ordered for you. As for serving, the system is to be an antithesis. ~here will be no rampant seeth- ing lines tonight. If you want so,mething to eat, it will be found at the north end of the gym. The patronesses wre: Mrs. Charles Alexander Richmond, Mrs. Charles S. Whitman, Mrs. Joseph H. Cle- ments, Jr., Mrs. Edward F. Ellery, Mrs. Wil ... lis T. Hanson, Mrs. E. W. Rice, Jr., Mrs. Charles B. McMurray, Mrs. John W. Upp. SOMETHING NEW TO DAWN AT UNION. Jack Upp Host After Prom. ''Dawn Tea, immediately following Jun ... ior Protnenade, £our o'clock, Saturday morn- ing * * * \ so reads our invitation. With the added explanation that Mr. John Winters U pp, Jr., '17, is the host, and that the place is 40 Wen dell A venue ; this is suf- ficient. Union is to have its first Dawn Tea! Perhaps, you wil realize that it is a difficult task to tell all about son1ething o£ which you know nothing at all. (Our profs, as is proved by examinations, do not agree.) But this much is certain, we are all going to M~r. Upp;s with a threefold intent: First, to round off the Prom in a sui table fashion; second, to show our appreciation to hini whose idea allovvs us to see the girls for two tnore hours; third, to stave off hunger pains until breakfast tin1e.

' i i i I , I ' i 10 THE CONCORDIENSTS MUSI~CAL CLUB, CONCERT. First Event of Junior Week. The Glee Clubs gave a splendid concert last evening, February 3, at the Edison Club, to the fair ones and others who had been as- sembled for the Junior Week festivities. The program was: PART ONE. 1. Terrace Song ------------ Ludlow, '56 Come Now to the Can1.pus_ Franklin, '83 2. Eagle Nest ---------- ----- Bordwell Mandolin 'Orchestra. 3. Vocal Solo-------- __ For You Alone Mr. Moora. 4. Ken- Tuc-Kee --------·-------- Weidt Banjo Club. 5. Mah Punkin' Sue ----------- Widene'r 6. Selection from \Bohemian Girl\---- ---------------------·-------- Balfe Mandolin Orchestra. PART TWO. 7. I Love Thee ------------\\\- ___ Harker Male Quartette. Messrs. Moora, Schuyler, Faust, \Villiams. 8. Trio- (a) Angel's Serenade-------- Braga (b) Zallah ---------------- Loraine Violin, Mr. Stein; Cello, Mr. Parker; Piano, Mr. Green. 9. Go 'Long Mule, Go 'Long ____ Dixon Glee Club. 10. Piano Solo------------------ Selected Mr. Cook. 11. Popular Medley. Mandolin Orchestra. 12. Old King Cole ---------------- Nevin Glee Club. Altna Mater ------------ Ludlow, '56 Combined· Clubs. After the concert dancing held sway until a late hour. Altogether the first event of Junior Week went off wonderfully. 1.~he patronesses were : Mrs. C. A. Rich- 111ond, Mrs. E. J. Berg, Mrs. 0. H. Land- reth, Mrs. J. R. Lovejoy, Mrs. H. G. McKean, Mrs. M. A. Oudin, Mrs. F. C. Pratt, Mrs. T. H. Soren, Mrs. C. \V. Stone, Mrs. J. W. Upp. SIGMA PHI TEA. Music by Europe's Orchestra. This afternoon from four to seven the Sigma Phi fraternity entertained the Junior Week guests at a most enjoyable The Dan- sant. The color scheme produced by many cut flowers afforded a very pretty back- ground for Union's fair guests. Throughout the afternoon Europe's orchestra furnished music for the dancing. Among those who poured were: Mrs. W. C. Clark, Mrs. Frank Vander Bogert, Mrs. James W. Veeder, M1rs. H. T. Warnick, Mrs. H. V. N. Philip and Mrs. M. .l\. Oudin, while the house guests served. Mrs. R. H. Gibbes, the house chaperone, Mr. Edgerton and Mr. Brunet re- ceived. UNION SUFFERS DEFEAT AMHERST. Final Score 30-16. FROM On Saturday night, January 25, our bas- ketball team again 1net defeat, this tin1e at the hands of the strong Amherst five at Am- herst, Mass. The score of 30 to 16 does not accurately describe the contest for it was 1nuch more exciting and hotly contested than the resulting score 'vould indicate. Union found in Amherst the strongest team of the year and one which had just gained con- fidence by beating Williams at Williams- town. It was poor shooting by the Garnet that brought defeat, for our team had many opportunities to score easy baskets but the old ability to pass the ball through the ring was lacking and Union's baskets from the field were scarcer than first grades from Johnny Callan. Coach Dawson again shift- ed the line-up in hopes of finding a win- ning combination but the new combination of Witbeck at center and Frank at forward did not bring the desired result so Witbeck was .replaced at center by Franck and Scoby went in at forward. The Amherst tean1 started off in good form at the whistle and quick baskets by Captain Widn1ayer and Maynard gave thern

THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 a lead which Union could not overcome. During this half Witbeck and Mudge each succeeded in caging the ball tor a field goal, while Zimmer made good six out of eight tries for fouls. The score at the end ot this half was 1 'i to 10 in favor of Amherst but Union can1e back in the second half deter- lnined to win and guarded the Massachusetts team so closely that they were unable to score save on a few long shots. However, Union's chances were no better and this half also went to Amherst by a score ot 13 to 6, making the :final count 30 to 16. Captain Widn1ayer and Maynard were the stars for Amherst, while Weeden, who play- ed at center in place of Sawyer, also did well. For Union the accurate foul shooting of Captain Zimmer was the one bright fea- ture for Zip made good 8 tries £~rom the foul line. This defeat makes Union's percentage for the year .500, our team having won three and lost three. The score: AMHERST. F.G. Widmayer, Capt., R.G. -- 4 Ashley, L.G. ------------ 2 Weeden, C. ------------ 2 ~ow, L.F. _____ .., __ ... ____ 0 Maynard, R.F. ---------- 3 Washburn, L.F. ______ ... _ 0 11 UNION. F.G. Haubner, L.F. --------- 0 Franck, R.F., C. -------- 1 Witbeck, C. ----------- 1 Zimtner, R.G. ---------- 0 Mudge, L.G. ----------- 1 Scoby, R.P. ------------ o 3 F. 8 0 0 0 0 0 8 F. 2 0 0 8 0 0 10 'I'.P. 16 4 4 0 6 0 30 T.P. 2 2 2 8 2 0 16 Referee-Reed of Springfield. Timer- Johnson. 'rime of hales-20 1ninutes each. TEN FRATERNITIE,S HOLD HOUSE PARTIES. Said Prexy triumphantly, \Why Union has come up 83 per cent, whereas -- and ---- have come up only 15, 8 and 3 per cent, respectively.\ Perhaps this is the reason fo~ 10 house parties this Junior Week. And each group o£ girls is prettier than the next. It would be a dismal failure to pick out one party and designate it \best as has the college, they have all gone up 83 per cent. The crowds giving house parties and their respective chaperones are as follows : Kappa Alpha: Mrs. Gilbert Cool of Glens Falls: Mrs. William C. Yates of Schenectady. Sigma Phi: Mrs. R. G. Gibbes o£ Schenec-. taqy. Delta Phi: Mrs. Edward M. Cameron of Albany ; Mrs. James B. Welles of Scotia. Psi Upsilon: Mrs. H. W. Knight of Glens Falls ; Mrs. DeForest Weed of Ballston. Delta Upsilon: M~rs. C. E. Whitmyer of Schenectady; Mrs. Clarence E. Aken of trroy. Chi Psi : J\irs. J. W W oodrough, of Omaha, Neb.; Mrs. J. B. Porter of Omaha, Neb. Alpha Delta Phi : Mrs. Joseph H. Fisher of Buffalo. Beta Theta Pi : Mrs. L. C. Smith of John- sonville; Mrs. E. S. V~rooman of Schenec- tady. Phi Delta Theta: Mrs. George Abbott of Albany; Mrs. R. E. Morison of Newburg. Phi Ganuna Delta : Mrs. J. C. Jackson of Fort Plain; Mrs. E .. R. Payne of Mechanic- ville. JUNIORS HONOR PROFESSOR MARCH. At a recent n1eeting of the Junior class it was unanimously decided to dedicate the 1917 Garnet to John Lewis M-arch, Ph. D., adjunct professor of modern languages and chairtnan of the junior class committee for the last two years.

I . ; I . ! ~ I i. I t' I : j : • ~ I : ' I ' ' i ' : t I ' ' I . 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS CHI PSI HOLDS TEA TOMORROW. Chief Function of the Afternoon. The annual Chi Psi tea will take place Saturday afternoon from four to six. Each year this function has proved one of the most enjoyable of Junior Week and it is ex- pected that this year it wil be even better, if that be possible. You are invited. We advise you not to miss it, for if you do you will not only lose two of this week's hap- piest hou,rs, but you will miss hearing O'Neil. The ladies who will receive are: Mrs. J. H. Clements, Jr., of Schenectady; Mrs. J. B. Porter, of Omaha, Neb.; Mrs. J. W. W oodrough, of Omaha, Neb. Those who will pour are: Mrs. W. S. Bar- tholomew, Mrs. Edward E. Ellery, Mrs. James H. Stoller, Mrs. Wayne Brown, Mrs. Clayton Potter, Mrs. J. L. Walton. LEHIGH TOMORROW NIGHT. Eight House Dances to Follow. With the basketball game at 8 o'clock and all of the house dances following, Satur-. day night's gayeties will be a suitable close for the festive part of Junior Week. Lehigh has a good team, but so have we. The game will be even, clean, and hard. Then con1e the house dances. In every respect, but par·- ticularly in the nutnber to be held will these dances surpass those of any previous year. From Lenox Road to lower Union Street n1erry-making will prevail. The following crowds are giving Saturday night dances this year: Kappa Alpha, North College Lane; Delta Phi, Lenox Road; Chi Psi, Union A venue ; Alpha Delta Phi, Library Lane; Beta Theta Pi, Union Avenue; Phi Delta Theta, Lenox Road ; Phi Gan1ma Delta, Union Avenue; Latnbda Chi Alpha, 242 Union Street. Junior: \How do you spell financially?\ S . \F . . entor: -t-n-a-n-c-t-a-1-1-y, and there are two r's in embarrassed.\-1-Iarpers. DEAN RIPTON TO SPEAK At Sunday Chapel Service. Sunday is the last day of Junior Week; the eleven o'clock chapel service is the last event. For many reasons we regret exceed- ingly that Prexy is unable to speak to us this year as usual, but the Dean who will speak instead,-well, Dean Ripton is second to no man. We know him and we are proud of him; let us give the girls an opportunity to hear him. And then there will be an in- novation in the form of the quartet. DOCTORJ.R. STEVENSON, DAY OF PRAYER SPEAKER. Dr. J. Ross Stevenson, president of the Princeton Theological Seminary, and moder- ator of the Presbyterian Church, spoke at the eleven o'clock services, held in the college chapel on the Day of p,rayer, January 20th. The services were very well attended by both town people and students. After the prayer led by Dr. Noble, Presi- dent Richman introduced Dr. Stevenson. Dr. Stevenson's text, taken from the words of the Apostle Paul, was: \I make it a point of honor, whether at home or away, to be well pleasing to God.\ To be well pleasing to God, Dr. Stevenson explained, meant to be truthful, useful, reliable in all tasks at all times. He-\Who was that that bowed to us as '\Ve left the carriage?'' She-\The one with the black shirt, the rose petticoat, plaid silk waist, purple collar- ette with silver clasp, tan coat, black hat with purple bow, carrying a silver trimmed card case?\ I-T e-\Y es.\ She-\ I don't know. I only caught a glimpse of her.\-Ex. Seen-\ Say, what's monologue?\ Your-\ A conversation between a girl and fellow.:'-Ex. I.

I. THE ·CONCORDIENSIS 13 DR. RICHMOND SPEAKS AGAINST MILITARY TRArNING. Calls Project Unfair. Military training should be exacted of coUege students only if all men in the United States are to take their part in maintaining and guarding the life of our nation, was the thought expressed in a striking address by Dr. Richmond, at the annual dinner of the Haverford Alumni Association, January 29th held in Philadelphia. Dr. Richmond said the advocates of com- pulsory military training in institutions of learning had lost their sense of perspective. He said that history shows it has been the college men who were first to respond to call to arms in all wars of the past. These men who take the highest positions in a na- tion's life, he said, should be protected from death and injury, at least as much as the un- skilled workmen. Dr. Richmond said this without intention to slur the workers, who are necessary to the country's welfare. Dr. Richmond said in part: \So far as military training in colleges is a part of the general plan for the training of youth for national defense, I should favor it, but if it means that the choicest of our young men shall receive such training as will put them in the first line .. not only of de- fense, but of sacrifice, and allow the worth- less slacker, on the plea of lack of training, to dodge his responsibility, seems to n1e a monstrous proposition. It is no injustice to say the man, whom by a false distinction we call the worker, is usually not the first man to volunteer in time of danger. If our na- tional life should be menaced who would be in the first line? It would be our trained sold- iers. And who would be the first to volun- teer. Certainly our college men would be among the first. It is the young men of quick intelligence and high spirit who are always the first to answer the call. \1~o put a concrete case: Let the call come; let us take say a thousand of the n1en in the senior class in our colleges, or grad- uates of from one to five years' standing. Let us take then another thousand of the young men of different nationalities-· aU American citizens-who are doing our un~ skilled labor or who are engaged in the re- latively unskilled work of our mills and fac- tories. How many would volunteer from the one class and how· many from the other? It would be a safe estimate to say that seventy- five per cent of the able-bodied men would cotne forth instantly. Out of a small under- graduate body of students at Union College, at the time of the Civil War, 11 enlisted in the army. If twenty-five per cent of the un- skilled workmen should volunteer it would be regarded as a signal mark of patriotism. \Consider then the value of these men to the country. The one class has been accum- ulating value of the most precious kind. Their minds have been disciplined, they have been trained in self-control, in judgment and in the essentials of patriotism. Many of them have come from this same laboring class, but they are now different, they have acquired a new value. All of them are men of superior quality. It would take years to replace such men. \On the other hand you have the man who could be fitted for his present task in a few weeks of training. And you take all this ac- cumulated value of the years and pour it out, like water upon the sand, while you save, as if it were of the greater value, the inferior man. ,.fhis implies no slur upon the loyalty or the real value of the unskilled workmen of this nation. We could not exist without them, but they should at least take an equal chance. The economic absurdity of the proposition to sacrifice first the educated men seems to me self-evident. The modern trench warfare has demonstrated in a sinister sense that 11 a man's a man for a' that.\ He is so n1uch clay or so much lead or so much steel to use against the enemy and the incredible spend- ing of the most magnificent human products

. ' 14 THE C'ONCORDIENSIS of the world during this past year has set of tragedy darker than any since the days before the eyes of this generation a spectacle of the darkness of Golgotha. ''By the signal and unmerited favor of God, this nation has been given the opportunity to learn from the mournful experience of others. If we are to train our young men for defense, either much or little, let each man take his chance. This is the true spirit of democracy. If every man is free to en joy the protection and liberty which this country vouchsafes to every citizen, every n1an must share also the responsibility for the maintaining and gua>rd- ing of its life.\ , BOARD OF TRADE HOLDS DINNER IN GYM. . The annual dinner of the Schenectady Board of Trade was held in the college gym- nasium on Wednesday evening, January 19th. An important feature of this dinner was a remarkable demonstration of the de- velopment and perfection of direct com- munication by telephone from Schenectady to San Francisco. Individual telephone 're- ceivers were at the disposal of the diners, so that the conversations held between the ~epresentatives of Schenctady and the gen- tlemen in San Francisco could be heard by all present. The line between these two cities was opened by Mr. F. M. Cozzens, the ~chenectady manager of the New York Tele- phone Company, who first called and talked with the wire chiefs at Lansingburg, Buffalo, ~hicago, Omaha, Denver, Salt Lake City, and San Francisco.. Atnong the Schenec- tady men who talked aeross the continent were: Mayor George R. Lunn, Dr. Charles Richmond, George E. Emmons, general man- ager of the G. E. Company, H. W. Haymond, secretary of the Board of Trade, and news- p~per men. ; Preceding this telephone detnonstration, President Richmond gave a short address on '\Intellectual Life, a Municipal Asset,\ vvhich was followed by an illustrated talk, show·· ing in motion pictures scenes along the tele- phone line of the transcontinental service. About 500 m·embers of the Board of Trade and 200 women guests were present. PROFESSOR ELLERY ADDRESSES CHEMICAL SOCIETY. He Tells o.f Meeting Men Who Are Re- · sponsible for Los Angeles' Lack of Thirst. A regular meeting of the Union College Chemical Society was held Monday even- ing, January 24th, in the chemistry lecture hall. Professor Ellery spoke to the mem- bers and invited guests on the subject, \The Water Supply of Los Angeles.\ He showed numerous pictures on the screen illustrat- ing the talk. The 250-mile pipe line over the mountains-pipe 12 feet in diameter-is a n1arvel indeed. The engineer who is re- sponsible, Mr. Mulholland, is not a college graduate, but one who has come up through and from the ranks. He gained his name and fame through pluck and hard work. The young men were urged to emulate Mr. Mul- holland's noble example of success and ef- ficiency. 1.\\his is only one of the many fruits of Doctor Ellery's last year's travels that he is sharing with the chemistry students. BLACK CAT ELECTION. At an informal meeting of the Black Cat Club Tuesday, January 18th, after chapel, \1\!. Morris Gilbert was elected president. Gilbert is a junior and a n1ember of the Psi Upsilon fraternity. No business was dis- cussed at the meeting. NEW MOTHER GOOSE. Young 1\{rs. J-Iubbard went to the delica- tessen store to get the pug dog some nice caviar. But none found she there; the shelves were all bare. He'll have to eat liver till after the war. I I j I I

I I j I I ;THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 THEN. (By Dick Taylor.) 'Tis a myriad centuries, less or more, Since you, my dear, a-nd I Made love on that reedy Permian shore With a red moon riding the sky. · I well remember the night we met; You were fog-drenched hungry and cold And I gave you a bone that I stole from a wolf Where he buried it deep in the mould. You stowed the morsel away with haste, Sans knife, sans fork, sans grace, But I with my arm around y~ur waist, Saw thanks in your greasy face. You trembled too, when I drew you near In my long arms, hai,ry and strong And I grunted and growled in your patient ear The new earth's first love song. All night we crouched on the ferny mat And jabbered the dark away, While the sabre-tooth screamed at the vam- pire bat And the saurians splashed in the bay. 'l'hen the sun rolled up o'er the marshes wide With a uromise of strength and life And you, my bride, stood up at my side While he blessed us man and wife. - MY iJANt.E, I B.ELiEV£? t~ ~ Nol TI'AiH'T! We didn't know much of eugenics then, Ofdivorcesand doctors and shame But we peopled the world with a fighting race And we got there just the same. Now when we were done with a life of care And our childre~ were gone and grown, A kindly slide from the mountain side Provided a ~mound and stone. But the seismic 'quakes and the fickle tides They scattered our poor remains All over the shores of the seven seas And the mountains, marshes and plains. But science and :filial love, my dear, And our children, the modern men, They hunted ()Ur hones all over the sphere And stuck them together again. They found a hand in Togoland, A foot in Mandalay, A thigh-bone down by the Rio Grande, And a skull in Baffin Bay. So they gathered our bones as best they might But a few were missing still, Till one June night when the moon was bright, They found them on College Hill. 'Twas a million years to a tick from then vVhen Doctor Stoller found them The pair of ribs that formed your waist With my right arm around them. 1:

16 THE CONCORDIENSlS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News W.eekly PubHshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN -CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. \V. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription : $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. This issue is edited by D. F. Chapman. A WELCOME TO OUR JUNIOR WEEK GUESTS. Like the anodyne draught, like the refresh- ing morning dew, comes Junior Week with all its glory to crown the toils of yesterday. For yesterday the powers were strict and held us under the rod, but to-day they gladly say, \let your Joy be unconfined.\ Lady Terpsichore and her followers have at last arrived and what is able to relieve our weary minds more than the refreshing smile, the gentle nod, the delightful dance, and the youthful glee of these, our fair guests. Our only regret is that Junior Week comes but once in a twelvemonth for it brings to us all unceasing cheer. The few days will be but fleeting moments in our college career, but never to be forgotten. Union is playing the hostess and because y()U are our guests you are hers also. Every ~oyal son of Union wel- comes you to the spot where \the brook bou11ds,\ Gladly wouJd we express our joy at y(!)ur presence in more polished terms than a mere welcome, but in this, a task worthy of Calliope herself, our pen fails us. THE BASKET BALL TEAM. Tl1e basket ball season is well on its way. VIe llav e won three games and lost three, -vvhicll makes a fifty per cent. record. In view of this record, we desire to comment on the team-'s work. Last year we were re-presented by one of th~ fastest collegiate teams in the country and the champions of the Northeastern League. The men on that teatn had played togetlier for four years and as a consequence had perfected their play to a very high -de- gree ()f efficiency. At each game we always felt sure of a victory. When they graduated last .f une it was a very great misfortune for the team, but the fact that we have had such men ;represent us over-balances that misfort- une. To judge this year's team by the same stand.ards as last year's team, you will all ad- mit is not satisfactory. The team's of the institutions which our team have opposed so far in the season are teams which have in nearly all cases played together before this y-ear. A -very good ex- ample of this is the veteran R. P. I. team, which_ we defeated by one point. R. P. I. had propll ized defeat for us in that game for the last few years. Taken as a whole these tean1 :have had the same opportunities that our last year's quintet had. They are vet- eran teatns against which our team has play- ed a :game worthy of any college and of which we a.ll are prou<l. J,

J. THE CONCO:RDIENSIS. 17 We can not speak o£ the team only in view of their achievements of this year. In gen- eral the team is of new material, for only two men on the team have played regularly be- fore this season for Union. Coach Dawson has worked this year to build up a team from new men. New, because previous to nu\v sixty per cent. of the men have never rep- resented Union during a whole game. True, these men helped to make last year's team possible but the meeting of teams from other colleges did not often happen. It is impossible to comment on the work of each man possible, for they are all working with the aim to do the best possible. They are making a foundation for future success and if we lost the majority of our games they will be successful because of the good foun- dation they are making. Their game is clean cut and in the game they use only such tac- tics as are typical of men of that calibre. No desi:re for personal honor is apparent, for each man works in unison with t:he other four. Their record has proved that they have ability and are making gains. We are all proud of such and proud that Union is represented by men of such quality ,of true Union spirit. In a straw vote the students of Michigan University were in favor of military train- ing for the country and in addition for com·- pulsary training. Aln1ost 2,000 students voted. 1032 of them were in favor of the question and 947 against it. Of the profes- sors about 150 voted. 83 of these were in favor of the question of compulsory train- . tng. Wellesley had the longest Christmas vaca- tion of all eastern colleges, the recess lasting 20 days. \ STOLEN! (From Yale Record) CHRISTMAS IDYLL. \The S'\i\retest girl that ·ever lived\ Sat on the stair by me. I couldn't force my lips to say w·hat she, I know, could see. 'Twas silence most embarrassing lJntil the maid said, \How big around is all the world?\ J\1y face grew fiery red. ''About two feet around the waist Is what it seems to be,\ I said, and, what is more, I proved She's _aU the world to me. J. S. B. Colgate will support a hockey team this year. Fifteen players and one spectator have been killed directly or indirectly through football during the past season. ONE LITTLE THOUGHT. I \Vill not say you are to blame For pallid lips and falling tears, .'\ nd that I'm not to speak your name Aloud again in future years. I only know these eyes today That in my glass I see so wet Shone in a far, far different way Upon the night our lips first met. I do not know if you will try To keep in mind that perfttmed hour, Or if you'll let its memory die, Unnourished, like a severed flower. I only ask that should you feel, Son1etime, in years that are to be, A wound within no power can heal, You give one little thought to n1e. W. M. M., '19.

i I .·. :I .. I 18 'THE CONCORDIENSlS THE MAN AND THE MARRIAGE. \I don't blan1e him, Do1ninie, I don't. An' they say she's a mighty fine .girl. But that other~hucks! She wa'n't neer wuth much, in my estimation.'' \Have you known them long, Deacon?'' ''Knowed 'em long? Well I should say- ever since they was born. John Rayn1ond was the soul of honor-poor and proud his folks was-not that he's poor now, land knows. No, not eggzactly,\ chuckled the Deacon. \But she was allers just so snippy like. Dominie, you know a cat that's bin in a real tony, rich family gits used to a lot of nifty stuff, fixed up by a French cook an' fed to it on a silver platter by a maid an' when it h¥ppens to have to co1ne dow11 Jto good plain cat food it turns up its nose. .Some folks git that way after they've bin out in society a while an' bin petted like a priz-e cat. Well, the only diffelfence 'twixt cats an' folks is that folks sometimes learn to control their noses an' cats can't never learn it because they're cats. They was just one trouble in that marriage, an' that was ~ pretty important fer John; se w'n't no match fer him.\ ·''I guess you are right, Deacon Taber,\ said Richard Dickson, as he came down the steps of his church after the mid-week prayer n1eeting in Drayton. \And I must say that the whole business has caused quite some stir in this section.\ ordained minister, no matter what the peo- ple think, for I believe that both parties are sincere. 'The other certainly was never meant for him.\ \You. sure have got the nerve, Dominie,\ said the Deacon, throwing up his hands. \Leave it to you to do the unexpected. But I got to be goin'. Too bad about Mr. Pot .. ter's death, wa'n't it ?-he bein' one of our best church members an' all?\ With a \Good night, Deacon,'' Richard Dickson turned and walked up the uneven street to his boarding house. It was a strange existence, with many glad and sad things-this ministerial life. He could have done better, at least finan ... cially, after leaving college two years before, for good athletes are always in demand and a fellow picked for the All American Foot- ball team and offered a job playing base- ball with the big fellows is a good athlete. But he had chosen and felt that he had chosen well. His worries were not of this 1 d nd. Before retiring, he wrote the follow- ing letter: \Dorothy: Just a line. Have you seen in the papers of the n1arriage (to be) of John Randell and Grace Tyler? People do him a great injustice, taking it for granted that he is \harum -scarum.' True, his fi.rst wife got a divorce from him but he was, practic- ally, forced into the marriage by a do(l)ting mother who thought the girl an angel when she was an . irresponsible butterfly. If it vvere after the 28th of September when, as you remember, I am to be ordained, I would marry them despite the action of the church which, practically, forbids our having any- thing to do with it. e W could use his fee of $1,000. \Stir!\ shrilled the Deacon, \I should say 'a young whirlwind.' Why, there aint a paper in this state but what's had the thing all inside out an' upside do·wn. If he'd a just murdered her they wouldn't a bin half the notariety. But,\ coming a little closer and lowering his voice, \don't you have no hand into the mess, Dominie; don't do it. Right after yer bein' ordained an' every- thing, it might cause a lot of trouble.\ uWhy,\ answered Richard, \I would n1arry them in a tninute if I were already an . . \Do you remember old Mr. Potter, the Justice of the Peace, who always came to our church with the silk hat? He has just died leaving a farm, some money, his office furniture and two grown sons-all being listed in order of importance. Some people I, .l

I, .l THE CON·CORDIENSIS 19 'vant me to fill out his term of ofice. ·\I am working hard on Greek transla- tion. ''Hoping you are what you said you were, I am \Yours ' ''DICK.\ Richard Dickson n1arried John Randell and Grace Tyler in his church at Drayton on the 28th of September, the day of his ordination to the minst~ry. The press of the state and the n1instry rose en masse to ex- press the righteous wrath of a righteous people at the decline and fal of morality. Nor was the young \whipper snapper\ free fro1n criticism-a mere boy to flaunt and hold up to ridicule the laws of the church. The next morning, as he descended the steps of his boarding house for a short work, the, now, Rev. Richard Dickson was surrounded by four men. Grim and deter- mined enough they looked too, but their weapons were weapons of peace. Two of them quickly maneuvered to positions of advantage, one on either side, and-click! snap !-the Press Photographers had done their work. The other two stood with pen- cils poised and began to issue a series of questions which enti1rely bewildered the, al- ready, somewhat dazed minister. He gazed this way and that, for some means of escape and saw his difficulties thickening, as Dea- can Taber came hurrying do\vn the street toward him. As the Deacon, much out of breath, ca1ne nearer, he exclaimed: \I didn't think you'd do it, Dominie. It's raised an awful fuss \\'n' \ d.- \But expostulated the Rev. Richard, \I don't understand it at all. What have I done?\ \What have you done?\ echoed the pre- spiring Deacon. \You pledged yourself to uphold the laws of the church into which you bin ordained an' you went an' broke yer pledge the same day. An' you've got the v\lhul state a-talkin' about you an' about this town. Ain't you got no pride, Dominie, ner no respect fer us to carry on like this? I guess you wan ted the thousand dollars, didn't you, Dominie? Didn't I tell you to keep out of the thing?\ The old man fairly shook with his emot- ions as he talked and was so near to tears that the reporters drew back somewhat abashed. From the look of bewilderment, as the Deacon spoke, the face of the 'Dominie' sud- denly broke into a sn1ile which expanded into a satisfied chuckle as he said : \Yes Deacon, I remember you told me to keep out of it, but I think I did not exceed my au- thority in marrying that couple. You see, I n1arried them as Richard Dickson, Jus- tice of the Peace, successor to the late Mr. Potter, a very little while before I became the Rev. Richard Dickson.\ When a newspaper man looses a good story, he knows what to do. These men vvere not green and they did not hesitate long upon the 9rder of their going. Deacon Taber's jaw dropped almost to his shirt front and then came back to form: the lower extremity of a wrinkled and sheepish grin. As he turned away, he said: uw ell, I swan, Dominie, you've put one over on us agin! Say! Com' on up to din- ner.\ Prof.-\Where was the Magna Charta signed?\ Nut-- uAt the bottom?\-Ex. \Generally speaking, women are \ \Yes they are.\ \.i\re what?\ \Generally speaking.\ -Ex. uno you go out tnuch in your peripa- tetics?\ \Sir-r-r! ¥ ou're getting positively-and- and-besides, I dont' wear them.\-Tiger.

; ·\ 'I 20 THE CONCORDIENSIS· CALL To ARMS. w ., -·-----..-- ' A BALLAD OF SHOT AND SHELL. I Gus Brown was a Nimrod bold, And dwelt hard by the Garden, And in his :room he kept a gun, A long and ancient firearm. Within a drawer son1e shot and shell, And on a shelf a powder can, Thus was Brown full well prepared Against assault of beast or tnan. One day a silnple ebon crow, His blatant wings came flappings, His caws came in the window wide,- Gus was not found napping. For Gus he had a good keen ear, To wild sounds it was 'cute, And when he took his trusty gun He knew well how to shoot. And when he heard that subtle sound Proceed from that craw's throat, His skilly ear was quick to mark 'rhat caucous woodland note. Forth from his chair he leapt amain, And seized his deadly gun~ And when he pulled the hair-trigger 1~hat poor crow's day was done. ' ' I~ ' ~' ' ,, I

' I~ ' ~' ' ,, I T.HE CONCORDIENSlS ,.1 .el II Now in the Garden dwelt a bird, 'Twas e'en a pheasant rare, And near the Garden's ery edge, A Graecian had his lair. Now then know all ye students fair, Who know both yea and nay, A man may be a Graecian And also S. P. C. A. So when that doughty Graecian Did hear that gun's tfeport, He feared to kill that pheasant rare Some youth did make his port. Straight rushed he to his telephone To warn that gentle youth If more he shot, he'd have him up Before the j udge 1 forsooth. III Now on Brown's window-sill may perch The simple ebon crow, And birds that were or never wert, Whether Brown will or no. And in the garden the pheasant rare J\tiay spread his plumage fine, And in his lair the Graecian May enjoy his peace of mind. For Brown has hung his gun up, High up upon the wall, And there it shall e'en rust and n1ould Till the last trtlmp shal call. F. G. B., '18. Prof. (while value of foreign 1noney is be- ing discussed)-\Do you know· what a guinea is worth in this country?\ Stude-\A dollar and a half a day.\ -· Ex. Love at first sight is usually fatal to a n1an not gifted with second sight. A PROGRAM IN VERSED JINGLES. A Junior Week ditty is this, as you'll see, Nothing heavy, al cheerful and gay. Of Proms and dances and teas,-all three, Will I sing to you in this lay. We went off with a shout on Thursday last, Singing and playing and ·dancing there was. Our single regret is that it has past; But for yewrs of that night the gossips wil1 buzz. And the Sigs, they gave us that marvelous tea This afternoon. It was a bear. From beginning to end, a wonderful spree, But the eats !-and oh ! yes, even Europe was there. Y e \bells\ ring out, ye \bells\ proclaim, Announce it to everyone loudly, For tonight's the Dawn Tea and Promenad~ game, Spread it broadcast,-and proudly. From four to six at the Chi Psi lodge Tomorrow, you are expected, Not a single soul this function will dodge, And stags too: you may eat undetected. 'l'he Lehigh game at eight thirty, you know, And all of the many house dances For Saturday night into one stanze go, But tnind you! Of a life time they'r~ chances. On Sunday morn at eleven o'clock, vVhen we've all just risen fron1 bed; We'll go for our Junior Week's spiritual stock To Benny at chapel, with tneasured tread. And ladies, when one and all you've gorte home, But one thought alone shall cheer. When you've left us amid these walls of stone, We will sigh, \Next year, next year!\

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS LINES WRITTEN ON A SPRlNO MATTRESS. I heard a thousand blended notes While in my bed I lay reclined; 1 knew \twas Edw. Hale's tom-cat, And evil ·wishes filled my tnind. Well, well, an here's old Junior Week back again with its dear ladies and their perfectly dear evening creations of mauve suede and royal blue grosgrain ribbon over Georgette crepe with horder of robin's egg blue beaver ta.t-just the chic-est thing, you know! Were we not a conservative democrat and there- fore 'Sensitive of the cry ''Tamtnany !\ which ··would mournfully rise fron1 the N e·w York Tri- bune, we would apply for appointment to post- mastership of Schenectady. What an undrean1ed of fortune one could amass by boiling down this pre-Junior Week mail and extracting the perfume therefrom for commerce. It could be boiled down in its own heat. If the commercial profits fron1 this stupendous .mail do go to waste, there arise'S, at least, a moral benefit. This Universitas Concordiae will nevet be mistaken for a supporter of Bryanisfn. We have taken our stahd. We are for prepaired- nessl Prepairedness we have, but, unfortunately, no1 prepayednes'S. Subconsciously,. we feel that there is something else we shoulcl :mention in this connection-- something that travels along with Junior Week as a sort of 'Side show. Well, if we can't remem- oh, p'Shaw yes'! :E:xaminations, ot coutse. How stupid! And there, counfound it, with this unfor .. tunate recollection goes all the joy out of life, as Skinn~.y Briggs would sa.y. Now we feet 1ike a poor, forlorn prisoner in Sing Sing looking out at the sunny world where everyone is happy and gay and free_:looking out through iron bars. No, no, nC>t a personal experience. Just a happy iltustration-a pen sketch, one might -say. inspired, perhaps, by that famous two-hour class in rhetoric we recently attended. H:E!RB MOVES ON AGAIN. We were sorry to see Herbert Daly leave the Tribune-not tltat we love the World less, but the Truthful Tribune much more. We will watch with interest his building up of the World's sporting page. He has a. great deal o:f building to do. VERS LIBRE OVER-DONE. Vers Libre beneath the pen of such writers as Masters and Henley is all very well, but we do not think there is anyone connected with the New York Central railroad who can get the true ''lift. 11 This, which apf)ears on a time-table, does not be- gin to compare with the Spoon River Anthology~ N' ew York, Boston and Adirondacks; Thousand. Islands. Buffalo, Niagara Falls and Tor- Onto- Toledo, Detroit, Chicago And St. Louis! Wherever we go and whatever we do, we al- ways retain our well-known jokishness. While at home ChristmaoS we made a nonchalant watr which we quickly forgot-humor on our part be- ing so commonplace-and vvhich we broug-ht to n1ind yesterday after eating too 1nnch candy.

THE :CQNCORDIENSIS 23 The wag: Someone was reading that good, old poem: \'Twas the Night Before Christma-s, * * \I had just -settled down for a long win- ter's nap When out on the snow there rose such a .clatter I sprang from my bed to see what was the matter. I threw up the sash, tore-\ \Well well,\ we interrupted in our free-and- easy manner. \You must have eaten too much of that there ribbon-candy!\ SMASHiNG THE FOOTLIGHTS. We have plead and plead for revival of our dramatics. And they sleep quietly on. Now then1 \Ve will use force. Start those dramatics! * * * * The cessation of hostilities in the burleycue line at the Van brought not the slightest flurry of dis~ appointment among the collegers. While we hav-e been on the Columbia wheel since last fall, the companies belonged. as it were, to the inner- tube. When the management announced the new wheel, we were in high hopes that der tag had come and we were about to get the class produc- tions that the size of the patronage warrants. We have been fooled in so many different ways theatrically of late that we ought to have known better. We will continue to go to Albany for good burlesque. * * * * \The Princess Pat\ at the Van Tuesday will be, we expect, another wallop from the New Y ark managers. No use for we of the province-s to yell \Down!\ for they will go right ahead stepping on our ears with their cleats. \Princess Pat\ brings a second company as usual, and exper- ience tells us that we will probably get but a n1ild glimp-se of the production as it appeared on Broad- way. Blossom and Herbert's latest work has; at best, nothing out of the ordinary, possibly except- ing the music, which is always good when from the pen of this composer. We outsiders can only hope for a few good voices in the production's per- sonelle. * * * * Mr. Proctor has sent back another wave of vaudeville after .giving ·us a rest during the screen- ing of \The Birth of a Nation.' High lights here and there on the week's program were very fair for the Proctor standard, but oh, how we long for the big time act! How good Harry Lauder's supporting acts tasted last week! Last week's stock at the Van, though not ,equal- ling many we have seen here an,<f in Albany be- fore, was. much more praise-worthy than others we have seen in the same places. Their -staging of \So Much \For So Much\ was good. the com- party being very well cast. They did not fit so well into the characters of some of their other plays. * * * * Speaking of stock, we have cliscovered those scape-graces, the Crane-Shirley-s. in their retreat · from Schenectady, they turned their faces toward the Orient and fetched up in Troy, N. Y. We will not molest them. You can't tell-perhaps Troy will like them. * * * * Nothing seems to be in sight to raise the legit. curtain during· Junior Week. Old Ly Howe thinks of wandering in again about tha.t time, but he swears he has nothing new to offer and we need therefore not bothe~·bout him. Proctor's, of course, will have ·a brand new-who made that cat-call? * * * * The provincial tour of E. H. Sothern, which is fast coming to an end, is probably the last America 'vill ever see the grea.t actor behind the foot-lights. His wife, Julia. Marlowe, has not appeared with him for some time, owing to ill- ness, and.as Sothern finds that he cannot play to any Juliet but her, the noted couple have de- cided to purchase a home in WarwickoShire andre- tire, for the time at least, into pr·iva te life. Mar- lowe will never go on the stage again. Her hus- band, at some later date, will attempt to pro- duce plays in a theatre of his own in London. * * * * SIMPLIFIED SENT.ENCIN'G. The Williams Record is usually a rnodel of cor- rect journalistic English, but we object to this sentence on the ground~ that it is too short and sort of vague-like: Returnjng to liis room after a short absence from it. We mean the sentence which' C()mes after the colon. Speaking of oddities in the college news, here's one from the Rochester Campu-s: In a recent report from Dean G()etze to Presi:... dent Butler, he recommended that correspond- ence courses be added to the curriculum. These courses were to be given with no credit and no profit.

24 THE CONCORDIENSIS C:QNCERNING DARKNESS. Feeling that things, generally, were going along as we11 as could be expected in this Universitas Concordiae, we have not until now attempted to dictate as to its running. Ve·ry many choice stud- ents are going to be killed dead by exposure and starvation if a light of .gon1e kind does not soon raise the ·wilderness of darkness which isolates the rear of South College from civilization after night- fall. There are brands of reasonable, self-respect- Ing darknesse.g, such as one mets with during vacations at the lighting plant and eclipses of the tnoon, but this indelible ink makes them look pale and anaemic and on the verge of nervous col- lapse. It is not a gas. It is a sticky fluid-like slow mola-sses. When you walk against a wall of this syrttp without dissembling it ahead of you with your hands, it knocks you down on your b~ck, flows over you, and when day-break comes you are dead. In a fit of mad bravado we entered it the other night and struck out confidently to- ward our room, using a combination of the side- stroke and double trudgeon. We paddled along beautifully at first, and our hope-s rose high-only to be cruelly dashed to dispair. We had forgotten that layers of the gloom were wont to settle in h~llows of the ground and freeze smooth and glary. We slipped and fell heavily. A blanket of it rushed down through the vacuum we left in falling and pinned us hopelessly to the earth. Frantically we screamed, \Help! Its got me! It-s GOT me! HELP!\ An instant that seen1ed an hour, and we caught a faint \Coming! Which way are you?\ The voice sounded as if it were tele- phoning from China. We punched our arm through the gloom in the directio~ of the sound, put our lips to the hole and called, \This way! This way! Bring a shovel P' Sounds of desperate sttuggling came to our ear, then a \Slipping as if of heavy shoes on ice, a shriek, and \HELP! It's got ME, TOO! Never mind a shovel-bring dyna- rhite !\ Thirtg.g looked bad-very bad. \Hello there!'' we called. \Who are you, anyway?\ \Ies me-Edward Hale!\ came the far-away reply. And then: \I fell on my back and I cant' get up. The stuff's like tar over here. I-I can't breath it. CAN''T you do something? Oh, I'm going to die. I'm going to die!\ Small chance we had of help- ing anyone else. Consciousness was slowly leav- ing us. Red spots were whisking before our eyes. All the bad things we had ever done passed before us in procession. The music of harps was filling our ears when, off to the left, we heard, \Hey fellas! Come quick! They's hot water in the pipes tonight!\ Heaven-sent blessing! It was the dor- mitories-the dear, old dormitories t With supet .. human effort we staggered to our hands and knees and butted our way forward towards that bless~ ed voice. What does it matter if we did cave in our head against the stone steps, as long as we escaped with some life left? How Edward !Iale escaped we do not know. At eight o'clock the next morning he was his old self again and waiting at his desk with hilS usual great mahs~S of literary material. THE INEBRIATE'S PARAGRAPH. An article which entirely missed the point of seriousness-appearing in a New York Sunday .Paper that ought to have been ashamed to run it- bemoans the immense prevalence of intoxication in our American Colleges. Budding youths, it raves, are initiated in great numbers into this terrible habit each year. Heavens, how profes- sionalism is spreading! According to this idiotic story, we are hemmed in on every side by youths who have entirely lost their amateur steinding. FUNNY ALBANY. The la grippe weather is demoralizing even the staid old Hudson. Its ice is breaking up, and peo ... ple near its banks are again thinking of moving up into the second story and putting a boat on the roof. Now, 'vhy doesn;t Albany yell \Deeper Hudson\? Clytemnestra, the only con trib of the week (may this -scribe increase!), writes that after the whirl of Junior Week is past it will be Junior Weak. Yes, Junior Week undoubtedly Will bring its Junior Weaks And theres a. week, ere Junior Week, That'll bring its Junior steecks! NITE. Gen. Sn1uts Fears Germans. -New Y ark 'rimes. More dirty work. Quit job to kill wife. -New York Times. \Business first, pleasure afterwards.\ \Vomen Win Rent Suit. -New York Times. The split skirt again?

1916---3 Speed Excelsior Motorcycle $250 1914--2 Speed $200 Skates and Sleds, Bicycles for Everyone, Skates Sharpened. Cash or Credit BURKE'S 230 So., Centre Street Sole Agent for Henderson Motorcycle ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 190S 1911 19()6 1012 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 CoUeQo Repretentativo NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie~ insure our patrons the broadest, n1ost ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. -------------------------------------------------------------- The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ Shows over the coat in back; low sharp, smart curveaway front; good knot and slide space 2for~5c OLUETT. PEABODY It CO., Inc .• Makers. TROY, N.Y. CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al-- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

If you are a real genius, keep it to yourself. If you are a real eighteen carat article Folks will find out about you, and You will get your reward. A College Man's Store of the \Square Deal Sort\ We have an ideal of what a college man's clothing store ought to be, and we try to live up to it-to do by you as we would have you do by us. Good storekeeping is something more than expending our energy in trying to catch the nimble dollars and cents. When you decide to buy here, we on our part resolve that your purchase shall please you so completely that you think of this store first when you wish to buy again. Y ott are to feel that we have acted honorably toward you, and have been truly helpful in value and service. Y ott are to feel that this is a college man's store of the \square deal.\ Exclusive Models-Exclusive Fabrics, Created By Us-For You. SUITS OVERCOATS SIO To $30 $10 To $30 YOUR HOLIDAY HAT-·A DERBY \The Store of Today-Four Hours From Broadway.\ DU HTO 455 STATE STREET Schenectady ~ Art Press

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. ()Qar•e~a leading- to the degree of A.. JJ. CussxcA~ CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- eluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B -This course may be pur sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is beg-un 011 entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. :&. Conr•e l-eading to the degree o:f Ph. .IJ. LATIN-ScntNTr:ttrc CouRSE- This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted a.ddi- tionai work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree ot D. 8. Sci~NTII!IC CouRs~- This course is based upon .. the study of n1athematics and the sciences. 4. ()ourse leading to the degree of B. :m. G~tNERAL ENGINEERING CouRs~- This course oflers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the fttnda- mental principles of the special branches of the J)ro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special w·ork in sanitary engineering for some of the getleral engineering studies. Er..:ecTRICAI. ENGINEERING CouRSlt- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 15. Couraes leaGIIng to graduate dC!greea. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE oF M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work CouRs:tt LltADING TO DJtCRIUC 01 1\ri. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Counstt L:£ADING TO DlGlu~:e ott PH. D.-This C<lt:Jrse of two years of graduate study requires for a.crnis- sion. the degree of M S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. B.uNltS, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. ::---------------=~.............._ ____ . L. V. Herrington ~ Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W DEPART11ENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded I ! 1838-A complete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital ! facilities have been assured with teaching services 1 both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- 1 mediate respon>Sibility under supervision. The I laboratory staff has been increased and the courses l re-arranged to conform to improved methods. 1 With these changes, it is believed that the Albany I I Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medica] education. I Admission Reouirements: Each candidate for ad~ :• 1 mission must pre·sent his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board I of Regents of the State of N e\v York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of ! one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physics, chemistry, biology and French or Gennan. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. I Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year 1 and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra 1 fees except for rental of microscopes and lahor- 1 atory breakage. I The academic year begins Sept. 27. 1915. All in- ! quiries and other communication-s should be ad- ! dressed to . THOMAS ORDWAY. f\1. D .. Dean. Albany. N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to i~s use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. u ' three vears · each vear is divided into two seme~ters. Expenses': 1-fatriculation fee, $Io; tuition f~e. $no. For c::~talO(YlH' 0r other ;nform:::ttion, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHAR1vfACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: ALFRED B. Hu€STF.D, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 250m DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CI-IAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Sh()p Just Across from the Green Gate l } ,\ ' ! ) ., I : '' jl '.

I 1 ,\ ' ! d ., I l '' jl '. The Concordiensis VOL. 39 FEBRUARY 17, 1916 NO. 14 JUNIOR WEEK GIRLS BRIGHTEN SCH:ENECT ADY Phil Downs and Committee Due Credit for Successful Junior Week. FOUR BUSY DAYS. Outgoing Sunday Trains Bear Many Ladies Sleeping the Sleep of the Riotous. 1917's Junia~ vVeek was highly successful, and Phil Downs, chairman of the pron'l con1- mittee, proved himself a great Socialist. Socialistic in that he is supren'le in 1natters social. In the political meaning of the vvord he also evinced no little talent, for he n1an- aged by some hook or crook to keep the distribution of labor very well distributed atnong his committeemen, willing or un- willing as they may have been. They labot- ed like troopers, all of them, and those who cry for a higher social standard at Union tnay well doff their hats to these men and proceed to the congratulations. The con1mittee was: Philip v\r. Downs, chairman ; William C. Loughlin, H. Lynn I<ertscher, John W. Upp, 0. F. Hawn, F. B. Van Avery, Hal A. Scoby. The height of the female invasion was reached around three on Thursday after- noon, but stragglers roamed in until well (i long- towards pro1n time Friday evening. They came f,rom everywhere between Port- land and Portland, and old Schenectady in- stantly brightened up and glowed with the great beauty thereof. And the little kill-joy, Examination Remembrances, ran away fast and tum bled into his hole. Society first convened at the Edison Club Thursday evening. The glee and mandolin clubs sang and played gleefully and man- fully, basking in the glow of appreciative smiles. Then they descended and danced with the smiles until long after they ought to have been in bed. Friday morning they stayed in bed until long after they ought to have been up. A few braved Proctor's early in the afternoon; many others we1re n1ore prudent; all later gathered at the af- ternoon's Mecca, the Sig the dasant. Eu- rope tuned up; dancing, tea and dancing, and home to prink for the prom. When He had annored himself in the boiled shirt and She had finished skipping back upstairs for the things-she-had-forgot- ten, they were off at last, and the Great Twitch was on. Europe, escaped from the Sigs, played incidental music, keeping time perfectly with the dancers, while he gazed wide-eyed at the taffeta-mousseline-cerise- etc., £rocking creations that floated by and wondered why Fifth Avenue women are so passe in the matter of style. At. half-time occurred a tremendous riot, followed by comparative caln1 as Weinnips' catering vv~as destroyed. Digestion had not a

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. chance-Europe saw to that. When the Campus Off. threw up the sponge and yawned his way home at one o'clock, the gay lifers were still very n1 uch up and doing. ~'fhey were still up at two, and up still at three; and at four-Upp. The Somnam- bulists' Tea cemented the :final bond be- tween Him and Her-She was then truly the Girl of His Dreams. There was no Saturday morning. The Chi Psi's served a breakfast tea with danc- ing at five. Then to dinner, and back to the gym for th.e great two ring ci·rcus-bleach- er drill in the balcony, the rnauling of Le- high on the main floor. She couldn't-dance- another-step, but She sighed when mid- night rudely halted the ten house dances. Official Junior Week ceased with a char- acteristically Deanesque talk in chapel. Outgoing Sunday afternoon trains carried many a la·dy who yawned hopelessly indis- creet yawns until the conductor collected mileage and then slid blissfully off to sleep the sleep of the riotous. CI-II PSI CONVENTION WILL BE HELD IN SCHENECTADY, FEB. 24, 25, 26. Fraternity Founded on Top Floor of South College, North Section, on May 20, 1891. The annual convention of the Chi Psi fraternity will be held this year in Sche- 11ectady, Februaruy 24, 25 and 26. The choosing of Schenectady· as a place for the convention is of especial significance at this tin1e because of the fact that the fraternity \Vas founded at Union just three-quarters of a century ago. The convention will mark the seventy-fifth anniversary of its founding, v\Thich occurred on May 20, 18'91, in a room on the fourth floor of North Section, South College. LEHIGH WEAKENS IN LAST PART OF GAME AND UNION IS VICTOR ·Garnet After Strong Start in First Half Nearly Loses By Slowing lip In Second. SC·ORE AT HALF TIME: 11-5. Lehigh Team's Roughness Probably Swings Victory Our Way-Two Men Banished By Fouls. Union nosed out victory over Lehigh by the score of 16-14 in the Junior Week game in the gym Saturday night, February 5. During the first half Dawson's rnen out- played their rivals steadily and, at half time, had built up the apparently safe lead of 11-5, but a swift rally by Lehigh early in the concluding half evened matters and n1ade the remainer of the ga1ne a hot, nip- and-tuck race. The losers n1ade good four field scores to their opponent's three. To Captain Zimmer, who cleanly shot ten foul baskets., goes the credit for Union's success. augured ill for Lehigh, who's work was, at first, sluggish and uncertain. Had it not been for the woefully inaccurate eyes of the Garnet team, they would have dashec so far ahead that their slowing up later in the game would not have thrown then~ into the grave jeopardy it did and fair spectators could have spared their fair throats the strain of n1any a fearful shriek. Hal Scoby discovered the combination alone of his tEam-mates, and scored twice during the half, the retnaining seven points ar1s1ng from successful free tries by .Zin11ner. Jiln- lny J\tf udge, inspired undoubtedly by some pair of eyes in the stands, exhibited some miraculous floor work in the period. In the second half, Lehigh took the floor psychological a new team and swept aside all TJ nion defense for a good ten minutes, finally whirling into a two point lead before ap- parently wavering under the pace. Then, I· ! ,, I ! I I . • f ' .t .~I .~ '. , .. f:.' ' f 1 .• ' •' ·I I ·~ i I ! '~ ., 'J ,.

I· ! ,, I ! I I . .f ' .t .~I .~ '. ... f:.· I f 1 .. ' •' ·I I ·~ ., 'J ,. THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 seemingly just awakened to the trend of things, the ~Garnet rushed in to retake its lost advantage and a pretty fight for lead- ership ensued. A:lmost imperceptibly Le- high weakened in the closing 1ninutes ; Union crept into a two-point lead and a sigh of imn1ense relief rose from the bleachers \'rhen the whistle blew. IDOL'S BENEFICENT CHARM OVER GYM BASKETBALL BECOMES RATHER WEAK St~ Lawrence First to Defeat Union on Home Court in Three Years. SCORE 14-15. During Lehigh's rally in the last half, Franck was banished to allow fresh energy to be instilled into the team through the person of VVitbeck. Both centers played creditable ball while they were in. Two Lehigh men were expelled for supernumer- ary fouls. Their roughness was unneces- sary and undoubtedly was the cause of their team's defeat. UNION. F. B. Scoby, r£. ---------- 2 Haubner, If. -·------ 0 Franck, c. _ -------- 0 Witbeck, c. -------- 0 Zimmer, rf. -------- 1 Mudge, lg. --------- 0 Totals ---------- 3 LEHIGH. F.B. Dynan, rf. ----------1 Kirkpatrick, rf. _____ 0 Brewster, If. ------- 0 Crichton, c. -------- 3 Bigelow, c. --·------ 0 Ketchum, rg. _______ 0 Green, lg. -------·-- 0 F.P. 0 0 0 0 10 0 10 F.P. 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 T.P. 4 0 0 0 12 0 16 T.P. 2 0 6 6 0 0 0 Totals ---------- 4 6 14: Score at half time-Union, 11 ; Lehigh, 5. }\ouls committed-Union, 13; Lehigh, 20. Referee-Carl Reed. Umpire-George Tilden. Tin1e of periods-20 n1inutes. \'vVashington As An Adn1inistrator\ v~r111 be the subject of the Baggerly Prize essays this year. Guernsey, St. Lawrence Freshman, Large- ly Responsible for Northern Col- lege's Close Victory. Our idol's beneficent charm over basket-· ball in the new gym grew a little too diluted Saturday night and St. Lawrence shouldered its way through for a 15-14 victory. It was. lTnion's first defeat in its new basketball home and it proved doubly galling to the. students because it appeared unnecessary.' 1'he shooting of the Garnet team as a whole \Vas very poor; sifted throughout the gan1e vvere many chances for shots, vvhich, if not easy, were certainly not difficult and which vvere foozled sadly, one after another. Sev- eral t.imes Jimmy Mudge weaved his way beautifully through all defense and out into untnolested tries at the basket, and then failed to score. Needless to say, he was not a wit daunted by the occasional fail- ures and dove back into the n1elee to en1erge later, after more scintillating floor work, to try, try again. His one field basket appear- ed in the first half. He shot two fouls in the second period in a way that was good to see, having next year in 1nind. Captain Zimmer was sadly off color in hi~ free tries, which was highly unfortunate, since his custon1ary steadiness would have. Vlon for Union. Zip is not at all deserving of censure in the matter-a slutnp for the best must come now and then. }fe has beeo the team's most valuable tnan so far this season, stepping into Ernie Houghton's shoes and going hin1 one better in foul shooting, and he will be very 111 uch in evid- ence against vVillian1s tonig-ht. ..

12 THE CONCORDIENSTS Yavits made his bow as a regular guard and fits perfectly. He is sturdy, fast and v .. rill have recovered his high school familiar- ity with the basket in another week or two -he is the missing link in the line-up, which will now see Jimmy Mudge at forward where he ought to be. Joe Haubner, relieving Scoby in the second half, pushed up the lag- ging speed a notch or two and shot away out at sea several times with hard luck and poor judgment. He nearly arched in a win- ning basket, but much more profitably might he have helped work the ball down ..into a surer area. He was not badly pressed for time when the shots were attempted, though he perhaps thought to the contrary. Witbeck proves conclusively that he belongs in the line-up. He will be a valuable regular in another year. Hal Scoby was rather un- friendly with the basket, though playing a steady game, and finally gave way to Haub- ner. Gene Hummer, in for Zimmer, aired his versatility and demonstrated that he can guard as well as get the tip-off at center. Rusty Franck was per usual during his brief sojourn at center. The game itself was a guelling affair that :frayed the spectators' nerves terribly. A Lilliputian walk-away by Mudge and Wit- ·beck in the opening minutes put Union in the fore 7-2. Whereupon, Guernsey of St. Law- rence felt great hate for Union College and proceeded to vanquish them. During the remainder of the half, he scored his team's · five other p9in ts and whittled the Garnet's lead to a matter of one point. He won in the early minutes of the second half, being ·aided somewhat by Clements. Union gamely plodded along behind from then on, straining vainly to catch up. Y avits scored a beautiful basket which put them within one point of tie just as the time-keeper raised his v.rhistle. The score: UNION. F.B. Scoby, rf. -----·------ 0 Haubner, r£. -------- 0 Mudge, lf. ---------· 1 \i\Titbeck, c. -------- 2 Franck, c. ---------- 0 Zimmer, rg. -------- 0 J- ] . 0 : ummer, rg. ------- · Yavits, lg. --------- 1 F.P. 0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 T.P. 0 n 4 4 0 4 0 2 rrotals ----------- 4 6 14 ST. LAWRENCE . F.B. F.P. T.P. Noble, rf. ---------- 0 Guernsey, lf. -----·-- 2 Clements, c. ------- Morgan, rg. -------- Church, lg. --------- 0 0 0 7 0 0 0 0 11 0 0 Totals --------- 4 7 15 Score at half time-Union, 8; St. Law- rence, 7'. Referee-Kingston. Umpire- Tilden. Timekeeper-Gunison of St. Law- rence and Loughlin of Union. Fouls com- tnitted-Union, 11; St. Lawrence, 12. Time of periods-Twenty minutes. I~ONER WANTS BASKETBALL RELATIONS OPENED WI1'H N.Y. U. Griffith Bonner, former senior editor of ''The New Yorker,\ the student publication of New York University, and a tne1nber of the '15 N. Y. U. football squad, has ex··- tended an invitation to Coach Dawson and the 'varsity basketball managers to be his guests at_ the N. Y. U.-R. Pl. I. game in 1'roy on February 25. Mr. Bonner is sec- retary of Capital District Alumni Associa- hon of N. Y. U., which is very desirous of seeing Union and N. Y. U. take up basket- ball relations. He is taking this opportun- ity to arrange a meeting of the manage- ments of the two institutions in the hopes of bringing about games between the tean1s next season. ,_, ~ -, ~- ' ' 'i t l i J .1

,_, ~ -, ~- ' ' 'i t l i J .1 THE CONCORDIENSTS. 13 MUSICAL CLUBS TO CONCERT IN N. Y. AND MT. KISCO NEXT WEEK . Manager Santee Announces Remainde·r of Season's Schedule-Joint Schenectady Concert With Amherst Coming. lVIanager Santee announces the following schedule for the Musical Clubs: :February 25-Mt. Kisco. February 26-N ew York City. March 21-Gloversville. March 29-Joint concert with Amherst at Schenectady. Everything is being gotten into shape for the New York trip. Both clubs are prac- ticing hard on the old pieces, while several new selections have been added. The faculty has allowed two days for the trip, and next week Friday the clubs will depart for M t. Kisco, where a royal reception is being planned for them. It is run1ored that ~'. delegation of Vassar representatives -vv:l; be present, to hear our first concert in M t. Kisco, and to test the abilities of the song- sters in a twitch. Saturday 1norning they journey on down to the city, where they will give a concert at the Bretton Hall Hotel. This audience will probably be the most critical, and it is choped that the concert will surpass the one given there last year. This will be the only long trip this year. The Gloversville concert will be given at the Y. M. C. A. there, and the clubs will un- doubtedly train hard for their initial ap- pearance in that town. A novel concert is promised to the peo- ple of Schenectady, when the An1herst clubs come here for a joint concert with us in the Gymnasium. The An1herst clubs have a good reputation this year, and the •'musical contest\ will be well worth hear- Ing. Thus far this season our clubs have 1nade a very creditable showing. They have been well received, and the concerts have afford- ed pleasure to both audience and perform- ers, though the schedule has not been an extensive one, but confined to places where much interest is manifested in music. The solos have been very well done, and Harold Cook and Shelley Moora deserve much praise. At the Junior Week concert Mr. Cook outdid himself and scored the hit of the evening, while Mr. Moora was surely ''there,\ as usual. DR. BARNES APPOINTED TO STATE REGENTS BOARD Union Now Has Three Members in This Department of the State University. By the recent appointment of Dr. Barnes to the board of the University of the State of New York for the preparation of ques- tions for Regents' examinations in German, Union College has gained ·a representation of three members of its faculty on such boards of the University. The other mem- bers are Prof. John I. Bennett and Prof. Al- bert J .Salathe, on the Greek and Chemistry boards respectively. The boards, as a rule, are com posed of either three or four mem- bers, of whom one is from a college, another from the University, and the rematntng member or 1nembers from a high school or academy. Union has the unique distinction of being the only college to have as many as three of its faculty serving on these boards. Cornell and Colgate are the only other institutions of collegiate standing which have as many as two of its faculty represented. SENSATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS!! Announcement has been made of the en- gagement of C. Foster Brovvn, '16, to Miss Olive Midlan, of Albany.

14 THE CON:CQRDIENSIS NEWELL SMITH ANNOUNCES SPRING BASEBALL SCHEDULE Season Opens With Three·-Day Trip to New York-Several New Relations Opened. At a meeting of the Union College Ath- letic Board held in the Alumni Gymnasium Wednesday evening, the baseball schedule arranged by Manager Newell Smith for the season of 1916, was approved. The schedule is probably the best that has been prepared in some time, including as it does, teams from Princeton, Colum- bia, Rutgers, Wesleyan and Williams. Seven of the fourteen games will be played on the local campus. The new schedule fo}Jows: April 22-Crescent Athletic Club at Brooklyn. April 24-Columbia University at New -y··ork. April 26-Princeton University at Prince- ton. April 29-Hobart College at Schenectady. ~1ay 6-\Villian1s College at Williams- town. May 13-New York University at Sche- nectady. May 17-Hamilton at Clinton. May 20-0pen. May 26-vVesleyan University at Sche- nectady. May 27-Rutgers College at Schenectady. May 30-Hamilton at Schenectady. June 3-R. P. I. at ·Troy. June 10-R. P. I. at Schenectady. June 13--Colutnbia University at Sche- nectady. Captain Mallen will hold track practices \V ednesday and Friday this week. The squad is rapidly rounding into form. The n1aterial is excellent and prospects for a suc- cessful season are bright. BIGELOW MEMORIAL .FUND A:GAIN TAKEN UP BY DR. RICHMOND. IS Erection of Building Given Up-Funds Will Go to Establish History Professorship. The project of raising funds for the estab- lishment of a John Bigelovv Men1orial is again in progress, after a temporary inter- l'Uption caused by the outbreak of the present European war. During the past two weeks n1ore than sixteen thousand dol- lars has been secured. John Bigelow, in whose memory the work is being undertaken was a member of the class of 1835. He was one of the four lJ nion graduates, who held such central position in governmental circles during the epoch of the Civil War. Mr. Bigelow was appointed by President Lincoln to rep- resent the United States governn1ent in France, and it was to a great degree through his instrumentality that the actions o.f the United States had a correct understanding iP Europe, and that many misunderstand- ings were n1ade right. It was originally intended to erect a building as the memorial, but since the be- quest of the Butterfield Memorial Chetnistry and Physics Laboratory which will provide the needed accom1uodations, this plan was abandoned. According to the latest plans the funds will be used to establish a Professorship in History. This will provide the further courses in historical studies which have been so long desired. Senior n1embers of the Concordiensis staff are considering the establishment of an annual remembrance gift of some sort to the graduating members of the board. The gift will pro-bably be in the forn1 of a watch charm. i J ., ., i ,i ,, ., ( ·' I l ' ~ \: ,, ' I :I . l l i

i J . , ., ,, ,, '· ( ·' I l ' ~ \: ,, :l 'l l i ' I THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 SPENCER B. EDDY ELECTED ASST . MANAGER OF 'VARSITY FQ:Q'TBALL. Waldron and Weller Resign From Athletic Board-Cronkite to Fill One of the Vacancies. At a special meeting of the athletic board vVednesday night, Spencer B. Eddy of Sara- toga Springs was elected assitant manager of 'varsity football for the season of 1916- '17. Eddy has been well known in Press Club and debating activities, and is a mem- ber of Alpha Delta Phi. During the business of the meeting, Charles N. Waldron, secretary of the grad- uate council, tendered his resignation as a 111en1ber of the athletic board. The resigna- tion was accepted and William Cronkite, of this city, was elected to fill the vacancy. 1\1r. Cronkite was one of Union's greatest athletes, is still very much interested in the college's athletics, and will undoubtedly prove a valuable addition to the board. The resignation of Earl Weller was also receiv- ed. It was laid on the table until the next n1eeting. The departure of Mr. \;\T aldron and Mr. Weller will be a great loss to the board. FRESI-IlVIEN FORBIDDEN TO LEAVE EARLY FOR BANQUETS IN FUTURE. \No freshman shall leave the city to attend an annual banquet until 5 :30 P. M. on the day of the banquet\ was a motion intro- duced by Brown '16 in Monday's chapel tneeting. 'The n1otion was unanimously passed. Its aim is to do away with the vvholesale bolting of classes indulged in by the under classes around banquet time. In a recent meeting with the faculty comn1ittee, the Terrace Council was infor1ned that the bolting for this year's banquet had resulted disastrously to the class marks of the of- fenders and was asked to take sorne steps in the 111atter. P. H. SWARTZ SPEAKS IN CI-IAPEL ON Y. M. C. A. MISSION STUDY COURSE. Philip H. Swartz, a gradute of Lafay- ette, spoke briefly in Monday's student meeting relative to the mission study courses to be shortly put in effect by the local· Y. 1.\1. C. A. Mr. Swartz spent three years studying in Russia before the war and, since that time, has travelled extensively among the American colleges in the interest of so- cial service work. I-Ie strongly urged at- tendance at the Y. M. C. A. courses. Secretary Story outlined the courses and explained that they would be thoroughly modern in nature. Course \A which will be under the leadership of Dr. Hoffman, and which will meet at Silliman Hall at 7:15 P. M. on Wednesdays, will be on the subject, \What Ought to be the Present Aim of Foreign Missions.\ Course \B\ will be con- ducted by Prof. Taylor and will be upon ''Students in Asia.\ It will tneet Wednes- days at 5:00 P. M. SOPHOMORES AND FRESHMEN TIED FOR FIRST PLACE IN IN- TERCLASS SERIES. In the third round of the inter-class bas- ket ball series, the seniors nosed out a vic- tory over the juniors by the score of 10 to 8, and the sophomores easily defeated the freshn1en 6 to 1. As has been true so far in the series, n1.any opportunities to score were lost through poor shooting ability. Only one basket was scored from the field during the underclass game. being n1ade by Madden, '18. The teatn standing now is as follows : VV on. Lost. P.C. Sophomores ---·------ 2 1 .667 Fresh1nen -------·---- 2 1 .667 Seniors ________ ______ 1 2 .33il Juniors -----·-------- 1 2 .338 A regular meeting of the Cosn1opolitan Club was held Tuesday evening.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE UNION COLLEGE ANTHOLOGY. I. Ralph Nite, the Colyumnist. I sat reeling before my typewriter, sick, half crazy, Straining to squeeze one more little quip from -my brain. Curled up and withered like a last year's cab- bage. The printer had kicked- Said that 8-point copy came in later every week- Said HE could tear off stuff like that in twenty minutes. Bull like that. I cursed the printer, there before the type- writer, Called him a damned low-brow, And the sweat pricked my forehead And collected and drizzled down into n1y eyes. Making them burn. Then sotnething -snapped quietly back in tny neck; The room flickered like a broken movie film. A saw red * * then black * * and slept. Oh, I didn't die then-not for tnany years- But I never wrote another column. The doctors shook their heads and said, \Too bad!\' And locked tne in a little room with quilts upon the walls, Because the one high and urgent purpose upon n1y osoul Was to memorize, verbatim et literatim, The Encyclopaedia Britannica! That abrupt precipitation from the Week of Torture in the class room to the Week of Tor- sion on the dance floor left one's brain a strange n1ixture of glooms and joys. Several times dur- ing most delightful twitches at the prom we caught ourselves wondering vaguely whether the n.1orning wa'5 to bring us am.other examination or a yawn tea. And once, between twitches when the laddy-bucks were rushing madly about in search of their lady-bugs, and our mind was trapsying blindly off into the subject of economics, we turned to our be-taffeta--ed sprite and explain- ed, \This my dear, is what you might call the Social Unrest!\ What matter.g it if .she didn't see the point- she smiled, notwithstanding. And we blessed economtcs for once. These be-tafifeta-ed smiles! Mml Ab h \Y \ . out t ese yawn teas: awn as a name lrS a step in the right direction from \dawn but too short, too hesitating. Considering one's phy- sical condition and all, why not simply the Gone Tea? CLYTIE CHIPS IN HERE: Dear Nite: It seems to me that Junior Week certainly had it.g Upps and Downs. CLYTEMNESTRA. All Upp for the Down Tea! Oh, dawm! What a silly ahss we ah! ADMONITION TO THE INEBRIATES. With exams past-whether passed or not-it is time for the inebriates to commence sliding from the New Year's water cart. We .gadly admit we've fallen already. How easily one falls when temptation beckons! \Plain or carbonated?\' the waiter had asked and, though conscience bellowed no, we took-carbonated. SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. * * * * ++++++++++++~+++++++++ + + --t• FOR SALE + --t+ One Played-Out Dramatic Society. + + + ++++++++++++++++++++++ * * * * We would avoid undue braggadocio, but-. \Perhaps the management of the Mudhavvk will some day learn that the only paying proposition for the theatre is burleyctte,\ we sma.ghed on November 11 and now, having run the legit, scale from Gillette to Crane, dab bled in movies, educa- tional and vastly otherwise. and locked the doors t. ! ·~· tk l f (: I ., '' I :! ·1 ·•. ., I ' . .~

t. ! ·~· tk l f (: I .. '. I :! ., ·1 \• 'I I ' . .~ THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 during interims, he placards the city with, \Re- ward for the Arrest of Absentees from the Com- ing Burlesque Extravaganzas!\ Twice a wee~ the slap-sticks will cotne from now on. They wilt dtaw paying houses., we unhesitatingly pre~ diet, though advance notices do not savor of a higher standard show than we have been enduring at the Van for the past few years. The only original Indian Princess Prima Donna will be the opener. It sounds fioShy. One can hardly blame us for being pessimistic on this subject. * * * * We've often wondered why we persist in go- ing to Proctor's, when we know very well before we go that we will be hqpelessly bored. Probably it's in the faint hope of a miracle happening_. st.:ch a one as broke during the first-half bill ot Junior Week and sent us out of the house a made- over man with indescribable joy and Springtime in our heart. The lanky, unnamed cotnedian in the feature act was an artist. Through some strange turn of fate, he escaped the finer me.ghes of the vaudeville sieve and fell down into the Proctor circuit. He is Broadway calibre, and should shake the dust of Proctor stages from his heels as quick as ever he can. * * * * Now that the Van haoS purged itself of bur~ leycue it can turn its attention to better pro- ductions with clean hands-which it is doing very laudably from the start. \The Lilac Dotnino,\ Andreas Dippel's annual production of last sea- son, reminded us of a very long freight train in that it took a long time getting started, but once under way, bowled along finely with plenty of n1otnentum. The first act was woefully tedious; by the latter part of the second, one had braced up in one's seat and was enjoying things im- mensely. The costumes, old and dingy, detracted much from the piece. The producer, by the way, is coming out this season with \Princess Tra~ la-ta,\ an opera done over from the German. a process which, by the way, 2n·d, will undoubtedly spoil much of its· humor. \Maid in America\ disappointed Winter Gar- den patrons and stepped out before its allotted time. It also disappointed Van Curlerites. Per- haps it wouldn't have jf any of the orig-inal cast had trailed along with it by mistake. Florence Moore. late of the vaudeville team of Morton and Moore, and a mighty clever little piece of femininity, proved a life-saver in the production's cast, and made ns want to see her again. She will have her name in Broadway white-lights some one of these days. Mrs. Patrick Campbell, and her London com- pany, in \Pygmalion afforded us the rare, rare treat of seeing a great play interpreted by a great cast, and we will treasure those short hours as being the most thoroughly enjoyable we have ever spent in the eccentric old Van. \Pygmalion one of Shaw's later plays, not yet published in book form, is a notable study in the colloquial speech of modern England. The writer's humor i:-; found at its best. \Any House,\ by Those Davis Boys, has some good dramatic moments, but it is not, we think, UJ: to the standard otf Cart Theatre productions, which it is shortly destined to be. It has but a short run before it in the House of Hits. Edwin Arden acquits himself a.g usual; Milton Silts, the finished actor of the English school, bolsters up the cast considerably. The well-known, great-actor, Lou- Tellegan, · actor-author- fen cer-sculptor-artis t-h orseman-ora- tor-and-so-forth, opened with a new play in the Albany Hall laoSt week. It is an old-time story in which the actor is given much chance to air his fencing skill. Lou-1''s latest work was 1n The Ware Case and The Farrar Case. Plattsburgitis, along with the la grippe, i5 finding U. C. an excellent breeding medium, the latest attack being the tentative formation of a signal corp'S, which probably would, in case the work were made equivalent to an hour bf Ther- nlody N amics or such-like, be eventua1Iy able to send simple declarative sentences fast enough to render it impracticable for the general to walk down the trench and deliver the message himself. Personally, we are rather opposed to thi.g branch of the service. We can't imagine ourself stand- ing on a hill and waving a red flag when there are any Gennans in the same county. We will never be a signal corpse. Show patriotism, we say, but be discrete withal. Come now, let's go into this thing intelligently. Let's hire an ex- pert drill-master and get up a-well. say a good. live rear guard. And so up crops the subject of preparedness·· . again. A right handy subject for cotyumin.g it is-, too. Add the names of President Richmond and Dean Ripton to its list of \Supporters. Chapel p~ayers waxed longer and more fervid each day as the recent well-known examinations drew near and a thorough state of preprayeredness was de- sirable.

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CO NCO RDIENSIS A Literary and News W eddy Publi-shed by THE STUDENTS OI-1\' UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., a-s Second Class :h.fatter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F·. Vf. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. ++++++++++++++++++++++ EDITORIALS. This issue is edited by H. R. Knight. ~ ALBA·NY LAW AND THE CONCORDY. · Rtnnor' filters over from Albany that members of the Law School are desirous of opening a purely . . departmental news section in the Concordien-sis -. a .section which will be written and edited w.reeldy wholly under supervision of Law tnen. We firmly believe this would be a progressive step for the Concordiensis. Providing-and this, we think, is all-important-that the Law School is the matter. Let her, if she i-s in earnest, prove it by coming to us. Then we will be fools if we do not receive her with open arms. Adding the Law department would make the Concordiensis a stronger paper, both in news composition and in financial stability. HISTORY REPEATS. A first defeat in the Gymnasium Alumnorum had to come just as surely as did the eventual smudging of our clean slate spree last Fall. They told us N. Y. U. should never have beaten us; they said that the team in its Williams-Fordham fonn could have saved the slate handily. The col- lege dangerou-sly approached sulkiness for two days. After which it squared its shoulders, smiled and waded in anew. And the season showed one defeat. We believe our team as a day-in-day-out proposition is better than St. Lawrence, and that we could lick them if we played them again. So n1uch for that-we will forget it. We will wade in anew. We will start a new record and, if we lose the next game we play in the gymna;sium, we will again start anew. Union spirit is uncon- querable. THE HONOR SYSTEM. An editorial letter in a recent issue of the New York Tribune, speaking of the college honor sys- tem, brought out a point which the writer thinks turns the idea of the system all topsy-turvy. Why, the letter runs, is it any more honorable to re- frain from cribbing for fear a fellow-student will catch you than it is to refrain for fear of detec- tion by a professor? In point of honor, what dif- ference is there between the two conditions? As far aos he goes, the writer makes a good point. But the honors ystem goes farther than that. A student may crib and be detected by the man next to him. The latter does not have to report the matter, but he has taken his oath that he will whole-;souledly behind the project; providing that -and he does. Therein lies he good of the honor she de~ires it badly enough to roll up her sleeves system. an.d dig in side by side with the college staff in the 1abor of boosting the Concordiensis to the THE DEADLY TSETSE FLY. tpp of the heap. We do not think the publication Union dramatics have been bitten by the tsetse board should n1ake advances to Alhany Law in fly. Gradually, during the past few years, para- l \ f , I < ~ j 'I .\ i i I. ~ .; ': ; J I l ., l ' ! ( I i I > I f. i .i j ' ,, I I '•

l \ f , I < ~ j 'I .\ i i I. '' ' '. ! i .· J I l ., l ' ! ( I i I > I f. i .i I I '• THE C'ONCORDIENSIS 19 lysis has crept over then1 and, to all intents and purpose'S, they are now stone dead. We do not think we are too optimistic in fondly believing t:here yet exists a spark of life which, were it skillfully fanned by the right tnan, would even- tuate in the lively dramatic conflagration that lJnion ought to be ashamed of itself for not pos- sesssing. The crumbling of financial support, we understand, is the root of the present evil. We refuse to regard the evil as insurmountable. If every other respectable college of Union's size lcoks upon a flourishing dramatic club as a mat- ter of course, there is no reason in the world why we shouldn't, too. Why couldn't dramatics be conducted under the 'Same scheme as are the mu- sical clubs? Other colleges regard their thespians a~ an advertising medium equally as important as their musicians. We will have a wholesome respect for the man who step-s in and fills up this the greatest hole in our field of college activities. RANDOM SHOTS. When a man can get something for nothing, he is a fool not to take it. Steve Story otfers two ccurses in mission study, which beyond question ·will be immensely profitable, and he charge'S no admission. It will never do to wallop Williams in football and not continue the story on through basketball season. Tonight will be a rather awkward night to spend on basketb~ll, but spend it you must. We are, you remember, commencing a new record of victory this evening. Few colleges of far greater financial re-sources than Union can boast of an institution more bene- ficent than our Spencer lecture course. Dr. Mar- shall, who delivered the year's first lectures, is a great man in his chosen field, and the other men still to come are equally great in their especial sphere'S. Dr. Marshall's audience was woefully lacking in student ingredient. Last week's \On Your Way 1 ' suggested the need of a light of some sort in the rear of the dormi- tories. A very full moon, or the presence of a lower floor student in his bed-chamber, tend to rtlieve this need 'Sotnewhat, but lower floor students and moons are eccentric. A reasonably luw-power light would be a boon to the man- coming-home-after-dark and would be inexpensive to the college. ++++++++++++~+++++++++ + + (1o THE LORD'S PRAYER + ~:• By Charles Ale,xander Richmond. + + + ++++++++++++++++++++++ I They were ordinary soldiers, just the co-mmon Jean and Hans, One from the valley of the Rhine and one from fair Provence. They were simple-hearted fellows-every night each said his prayer: The one prayed Vater Unser and ther othe Notre Pere. II Then they met beyond the trenches and they ran each other through- Just the ordinary kind of work the soldier has to do. As they lay there close together, on the still October air H!lns was gasping \Vater Unser\ and Jean whispered \Notre Pere.\ III So they went to find the Father. He will under- stand, thought Hans, For he knows and loves the Rhineland. But Jean thought of fair Provence. And St. Michael came to meet them, and he smiled to see them -stare When he told them Vater Unser was the same as Notre Pere. IV So these two went together and stood before the throne, And prayed to God to make good speed and send St. Michael down. \Mais oui,\ said Jean, \je crois qu'on n'aura plus de cette guerre Quand on saura que Vater Unser est le meme que Notre Pere.\ The campus will be the scene of two bas- ketball games this week. Williams will be our opponents on the court tonight, and Am- herst wil be here Saturday intent on scoring another victory over the Garnet.

20 THE CONCORDIENSlS 'I'HERE BEING MORE TO SAY ON THE SAME SUBJECT: King, cartooning for the Chicago Tribune, in a drawing captioned, \Setting Up Exercises,\ n1akes a pa'Ss at the class of 1917, which we, being still a menrber of it, luckydog, would ward off in a weak sort of way. The cartoon is in two parts., the first headed, \Class O'f '17, France,\ the second, \Class of '17, America.\ In the former he pic- tures a platoon of soldier'S, very stalwart men with very, very serious faces; in the latter ap- pears the well-known bar, over which are droop- ed sundry happy boys dressed in checkered suits and slouchy hattS. In the first place, we fail to see ·where it is any more laudable to be \setting up'' as the French juniors, preparatory to killing some people that don't want to be killed, than it is to bt; \setting up\ in the American way-prepara- tory to killing one's self. Considerably fewer people die from the American setting up, and then the death, they say, is much more enjoyable. Furthermore, if an inventory had been taken of the class of '17, U. C., about the time the cartoon appeared (which was on the eve of the Week of Torture), its members would have been found sitting, not setting, up late at night. They would have been poring, not pouring. Which seems to show that the guy is bent on preparednes,s as well as the garcon, in spite o·f the Chicago Tribune. IT OCCURRED TO US-- Vv e love to hear the Old Grads, when they co1ne back in the Springtime, -Reminisce of their school days-telling of the Real time, When they lived in this room or that, when they stole prexy's glastSes; When they could revel all night long and get their sleep in classes. But we have noted one thing and it seems to us eccentric; Must be sotnething wrong somewhere-it's really most eccentric. Th~y praise those days 'till actually their tongues get corugations, But still, they never con1e back here around ex- aminations I We feel that. in this respect, we will be a thor- oughly distinctive Old Grad. As surely as another Week of T. dawns after we graduate, should we. we will put away our pick and shovel and hurry back to the gray old halls. We will take that hoary chair that Frank S. Hoffman sits upon during his third degrees anrl seat ourself contentedly before his door. As each poor boy sliBks nervously in, we will beam upon him and say, \My hoy, you are stuck, absolutely, uncom- promisingly stuck, before ever you go through that door. You're a nervous wreck. When you go in there and meet those merciless eyes behind that desk, you will break down and talk like a fool. Through the window I will watch you stutter and tSquirm and sweat. When you come out, I will laugh in your face. Now go on in, tny boy-and God bless you!\ ON THE ECCENTRICITY OF WATER. The Old Grads may be glad to know Those water-pipes are still below Zero where we wash our face. (Hot water'd be so out of pla~e!) THE PRIVATE HISTORY OF TI-IE GREAT WATER SCANDAL. We have been asked so tnuch o'f late why we did not divulge the whole secret of this now very fatn- outS scandal that we finally decided to lay the n1atter open to our readers. Some four or five weeks ago, when the cold weather set in, it be- came a brilliantly popular sport wagering upon the nearness of the next luke-warm area in the lavatory water-pipes that the college generally degenerated for the time into a miniature Monte Carlo. A scrupless student, needing money and knowing the habits of the pipes fairly well, V\rag- ered 25 cent'S with the cfnderilla, that is, the scrub-lady, and won. Cinderilla, angered beyond words. turned around and dtopped Mr. Walling, the handy man, for 50 cents; Handy Man was a good sport and bet with Mr. Salathe, the chemist, trimming him for $2.00; whereupon, Mr. Salathe came through, and Prof. March lost $4.00, but not for long; France defeated Germany, Dr. Barnes surrendering $8.00. Dr. Berg then work- ed out a sure-thing systen1, which failed on first trial, and cost him $16.00; luck, however, tnade it up and Dean Ripton was taken in for ·$32.00. Ex~ citen1ent ran high. Classes were given up; student and professor alike thought and spoke oi nothing but the one burning question. W auld the Dean challenge Prexy? He did. Prexy wag- ered warm water would come within five hours -the Dean guessed seven. It fooled away some forty-nine and a half on the way, and Prexy signed his check for $64J)0. Then he forbade wann water altogether and ordered classes resumed. The af- fair received wide publicity throughout the coun- try and newspaper editorials praised Prexy high- ly for the final stand he took upon the n1atter. ' L ~ \ \ I \ I ' ! i \ (

.I ·< ' ' L \ \ I I ' ( \ ( I \ ~ ' THE CONCORDlltNSIS :21 The dear old idol's reputation as a joy-bringer staRds somewhat sullied after Saturday's hard-one- to-lose. His reputation, one might put it, is now most i-doloric. Relaxing to vernacular, we chide him with, \Very bad, Iddie !\ NITE. HENRY RUTGERS MARSHALL DE- LIVERS FIRST LECTURES OF SPENCER COURSE. Henry Rutgers Marshall, L. L.l D., D. S., presented the first two lectures of the leba- bod Spence1r course in chapel Monday and 1 1 uesday evenings, February 7 and 8. Tues- day morning at eleven he spoke before the students of Dr. Hoffman's classes, also in the chapel. In his first lecture, \Development of Aesthetic Memory,\ Mr. Marshall showed the growth and development of beauty. In ''The Results of Modern Aesthetics,\the sec- ond lecture, he discussed the attitudes to be taken towards beauty, as a result of this growth, and also the separation, as time has go tie on, of the different arts of beauty. M1r. Marshall is a man of great promin- ence in architectural circles and a frequent contributor to art, philosophical and psy- chological journals. His lectures were ex- tremely interesting. MELVILLE HANNA GIVES $5,000 MORE. In last Saturday's chapel service, Presi- dent Richmond announced an additional gift of $5,000 towards the Bigelow men1orial fund from Melville H. Hanna. This n1akes a total of $35,000 that Mr. I-Ianna has given to the college in the past few years. Mr. I-Ianna never graduated from Union, but left during his undergraduate course to enlist in the army for the Civil vVar. He has ahvavs shown a deep interest in the college. ~ WALLY GIR·LINGIS ARRANGING EX- CELLENT SPRING· TENNI:S SCHEDULE. Wally Girting, captain-manager of this season's tennis, announces that the f<>l1ow- i11g schedule will be offered for ratification at the next meeting of the athletic board: May 2, Vermont at Schenectady; May 5, Springfield at Springfield; May 6, Amherst at Amherst; May 13, Trinity at Schenectady; May 17, Vermont at Burlington; May 20, Colgate at Schenectady; May 27, R11tgers at Schenectady. FRANKLIN CONCERT COURSE CANCELLED. Union hears with great regret that the enti1re concert course which was to have been given under the management of Ben Franklin has been cancelled. Owing to the fact that the New York Symphony is com- posed largely of Germans, it was found ex- pedient that they should not go into Can- ada at this time and, as several important concerts of their proposed tour were sched- uled there, it was necessary to cancel the entire trip. It was further learned that operatic contracts of Gadski would prob- ably prevent her appearing here upon the date set. Rather than substitute inferior engagements, as would be necessary at this la.te hour, Franklin preferred to annul the entire course. PROFESSOR KLEEMAN GIVES LEC- TURE. At a joint tneeting of Sign1a Xi at1d the Eastern New York section of the An1.erican Chem~cal Society on Friday evening, Prof. J(leenlan, the new assistant professor of physics, pleased an audience of over one hundred with a lecture upon \Ultra- Violet · ')·ht.\ The lecture, which was given at the physical laboratory, was illustrated by nu- nlerous experitnents. It was followed by general discussion.

'' ! 1 ' I I I ' ! I I I I I I ' ' i ' I . \ ' I I . I I I 22 THE CONCORDIENSIS ++++++++++++++++++~+++ + + (+ A SONG TO THE NORTHLAND. ~· ..t.. B RET +- -.. y • • '. + + ++++++++++++++++++++++ 0 sing me no songs of the Southland Lapped in her languorous ease, Breathing the breeze of the Isles of Spice, Sing soft songs of the seas. Tell me no tales of the tropic night'S When the Cross swings low in the sky, And never a word of the cities of gold With their temples lordly and high. Bring me no fruits of the Southland, Weave me no garlands -of flowers, Waft me no notes of the n1ocking-bird, Build me no leaf-latticed bowers. But give me the Northern winters And the health of our Northern clime, And the boitSterous song of the north-west wind, The snow and the gleaming rime, A silver moon in a diamond sky, The flash of the Northern lights, And the shrieking rage of the driving storm In the wild December nights. 0, the gleaming skate and the gliding ski, The sweep of the flying yacht, The glassy stretch of the inland tSea, The berg and the icy grot. 0 weakling, hie to the Southland And bask in her balmy breeze, But give me the strength of the Northland born, And the blasts from the polar seas. The following team was recently chosen tc: be the year's representative one of the !\delphic Debating Society: Heatley, Tay- lor, Eddy; alternate, Greene. One of the many new features of this year's Garnet will be characteristic snap- shots of members of the class while at work or play about the can1pus. It is the man- agement's -desire to get every man in the class pictured son1ewhere in this series. ++++++++++++++++++++++ + + ~+ SHALL PROFESSORS FORM A UNION? +-:• Headline in the Nation. + + ++++++++++++++++++++++ To be successful, all unions must be foanded on a necessity. It seems to us, therefore, that the professors should, by all n1eantS, have a union, for how can we get along without them? Without professors we would never know whether we were educated or not. There would be no safe criterion. Now, when any professor ·who has had us .under his per-sonal charge for a ntunber of years, tells us that we are educated, we know that we are not. That is a valuable contribution to the state and to our own knowledge. It is true that the knowledge that we are not educated does not always come to us until some- tin1e afterwards. But that does not make it any less or important or valuable. ProfetSsors are highly useful, because they place us early in life in possession of a body us useless facts which do not rise up later on to hamper u-s. Having once become acquainted with them, (even if the acquaintance be but slight), we get to know them well enoug-h to avoid them in the future. That makes a great difference to all of us, and the professors ought to get the credit. This, we regret to say, is not always the case. Professor'S are often accused oi conveying useful information. That is gne of the burdens that they have to bear. Every one of us is more or less misunderstood. The pro- fessors are no exception. Without them we should go on, perhaps, all our lives learning use- less things, firmly believing, for example, that the study of philosophy is important, that 'Sociology is an asset to the plain people, that political econ- omy is beneficial to somebody and that theology helps us to know God. Think of what a handicap that would be to a person of ordinary intelligence. The professor'S ought to be protected. They ought to form a union in defense of their inalienable rights to provide our youth early enough in life with all the useless information there is, in order that thereafter they may be free to do things that are worth while.-Life. Ye Gods! Useful subjectos like philosophy. so- ciology, political economy and theology! Shades of \Betsy\! This man never studied or never could have heard of Thermogoldarnics. J' .. I.: t ! ,' \' ... •, ':

J' .. I.: t ! '; ' ' ' ,. ' ... •, I,' THE CONCORDIENSIS 23 UNDER A NIGHT LAMP. By \Q.\ He always liked it when the lights were turned off in the theater. He felt tnore con~fortable an.c1 he could enjoy the music better. l-Ie loved mus1c but he was no hypocrite. He wouldn't say he liked Wagner for he didn't. He thought most people said they did be:ause it was the ~hi~g to say-because it was the1r duty; but he dtd~ t be- lieve in compron1ising one's self because 1t was one's duty. There was something Gargantuan about Wagner to him. It was like a nightingale with clipped wings in a flock of turkeys; a night- blooming cereus in an onion bed. Yes he liked it when the lights were turned ' off. Music was always more beautiful in the dark and the orchestra was -splendid tonight. The aching whine of the violins creeped through his veins· he clutched the seat; his eyes stared but saw ~othing. The music was growing salaciou-s; it was like myriads of warm violets and seringas. He drew his breath in short gasps; he -squeezed his hands, and longed and longed. It was an in- explicable longing. He had had it before but never so strongly as tonight-a longing that those human violins put in him.. And then the theme again; a sliding, sensuous theme with strings and the under-breath of the harp. He thought of her who should have been in the empty seat beside him. They had quarreled at dinner and she had refused to accompany him tc the theatre. So he had come alone-out of spite and because she had said he wouldn't dare. Rut as he sat there he was not angry, for the music had intoxicated him. He was in an exhil- aration of soul which only music could create in h1m.. He could have worshipped Wieniawski and Beriot and Vieuxtemps that night. \' A-s he sat alone in his car and watched the wet gold of the streets gleam by, and with the music still aching in him, he hoped she would be over her rage. The music had longed for an embrace and a fierce kiss and he must have it. He had abandoned himself to his feelings tonight because they interested him. Sometimes he didn't recog- nize hin1self and watched an abstract being. At dinner he had been a mild Mr. Hyde and now he was the Doctor. As he entered the hall the house was quiet and so he went to her roon1. The little mahogany night-lamp, with its old-rose silk shade, was burn- ing on her drestSing-table. It was like the theater; ao·ain that passionate, burning melody throbbed through him. She was in bed. He thought of the scene at dinner. They had such scenes often for they had little in common except a marriage certificate. He had often marvelled why he had married her; but tonight he remembered it was after an evening of just such music that he had proposed to her and -she had accepted. The triple mirror of her dressing table formed three beautiful little night-lamps. He looked at hitnself and was surprised. He didn't look much different except that his eyes were strangely deep and lustrous and his complexion was some- what richer under the glow of the old-rose. She stirred in bed but he kept looking at hin1- self in the mirror. He couldn't understand why. but he did. It was warm in the room and there was a heavy moist odor of roses from a table near the bed. He thought it was too warm for her to sleep well; she would probably have a head- ache in the n1orning. She stirred again and he turned and looked at her. She had beautiful arms, but he knew qu'elle faisait usage d'un rasior. But it was a very pretty gold one with a pearl handle and he liked to see her use it. Once he had hoped that she would cut her~elf and have a scar, but it was somewhat plebian to have scars, so he de- cided he would rather she wouldn't. He remembered the music that would be ern- braced. It had n1ade him feel primordial, wild; for a few minutes he had felt like some savage first-man, naked, spear in hand, riding a bare horse down the wind. Then it was white-fleshed women whose arms dripped. perfumed music, whose rich lips breathed life into the honey-heavy melody. She stirred again. He wa-s surprised to find that he was still looking in the mirror at the glow of rose light on the lower part of his face. Pretty soon he turned around and went out, leaving the door open so she would have more air. 1~he English Club has started the second term with a promising success. On janu- ary 28, Prof. March gave an interesting talk, his subject being Henry James. On Feb- ruary 11 Prof. Parker read an excellent paper on Longfellow, which vvas greatly appreciated. The meetings have been well attended and much interest shown. The elate and subject of the next n1eeting will be announced later.

! I ! ' I . I . I ' ! i l ; I : I I I , l ' . ' j I . i : I I I I I . ' . I. I I I I , I I ' I \ I . I . I ' 24 THE <CQN:CQRDIENSlS ++++++++++++++++++++++ + + •l+ SLANGO·GRAPHY. •:• •t• From THE CONCORDY, Vol. III, No. 6. + ·~ March 15, 1880. + + + ++++++++++++++++++++++ \It may interest our readers to learn some- thing of the slang words and phrases at other colleges. For_ research into this subject we are indebted to the Acta Co~lumbiana which has pub- lished a series of articles on it. We will men .... tion the most important. ''The author-Richard Grant Black-says that a~- Cornell the word pony has a different meaning from that at most colleges, signifying crib or other unlawful aid at examinations or recita- tions. At Union, pony has both significations and is n1a de to carry a good deal. A Union man rides his pony, or horse, in his roon1, rides it into cla-ssroom and rides through, if he is not so unfortunate as to be unsaddled. At Williams and Bowdoin only, the pony is known as a fakir. At ale it is a skin-a term employed at Union to denote the ordinary dead-beat. \In refusing to attend recitations or chapel we bolt with Michigan University-perhaps oftener. But at Columbia they refer to slope; at Har- vard and Williams, to cut; and at osome west- ern 'institutions,' to skate. \At Union a man is hauled up by his prefessor, ~nd when he n1akes a brilliant recitation, invar- iably rowls and rakes in the consequent ten-spot. At Harvard he squirts or, more commonly, rushes. At some colleges he howls and screams. At Williams he rakes an X. ''With us, to fail in attempted recitations is a flunk; to sit nobly in one'.g seat when hauled up i; a dead flunk. The latter at West Point is fess; at Wesleya·n, sn1ash; at several Southern col- leges, burst. Fizzle is our term for a poor reci- .. tation. \Hard study at Union and Princeton ios poling; at_ Harvard (according to_ the Crimson), the 'eorisumn1ation devoutly to be wished' is the re- sult of grinding or digging. At Williatns it is grubbing. \We call a student who fawns and hangs around professors, soups or bootlicks. Some collecres b have bOotlegs. \Snab is the most comn1on name for unmarried fen1ales, but is not used at Union. Tl1e n1ore youthful portion of the tender sex among us- we n1ean in Schenectady-are referred to as fair maids of Dorp, or quail. The Athenoeum pro- poses that the 'hucolic n1aiden.g of ru1·al Wit- liams' be hereafter known as rose-buds. \The collegiate rowdy at Harvard is a scrub; at Columbia, ploot, prune or a plum. At Yale he is a ~Slum. We call hitn what he 1s-an ass. \Harvard 'don't haze freshmen any more.' Neither do we. '79 was the last class that did that successfully. But they still devil a Pleb at West Point, and at Brown they soap hinl-be- cause he needs it. We -still put him. on the table and listen to the affecting tale of his pedigree and childhood, to his best declamation or speech and to his nursery songs. \At Union nearly every freshn1an is required to set up at -some appointed titne during the first term-i. e., to fun1ish divers potations and edi- bles for the upper classmen. All occas1ons of festivity among us are set-ups. \String-out is a word recently adopted at Union. It relates to that peculiar lengthening out of student groups on their way to chapel which cause them to enter at iq.tervals of about .... two seconds. This prevents the beginning of the exercises and enables those in the rear to catch up. A very few tnen have been known to form a line frotn Lafayette Street to the college, all tnarching to the tune of String o-u-t! String o·-u-t! A noble institution! \A student suspended from college is bounced; expelled, he gets the G. B.-grand bounce. \A student's room is his ranche. A general. grand racket is a jamboree. \We come down in recitation or chapel in the place of applause, and there is no fiction about that either. In delivering orations we howl. In fine, we do everything which· is appropriate to student life, work and play, laugh and sing, mor- ally and experitnentally certain that \Old Union is a jolly home, We'll love her still where'er we roam; The very songs we used to sing 'Mid memory's echoes long shall ring.'\ May our present slang seem a.g odd to another generation! T'he den1onstration of radio preparedness, vvhich will be given by 25,000 amateur li- censed operators beginning Monday night, February 21, at 11 o'clock, central time, will be handled for this section by the college v.rireless station. The n1essage will be relay- ed on to the designated stations of the east tfhe tnessage vvill start from Elgin, Ill. ., ' 'If ,, I ' '-! ',.!{ ·' ' 'J ~-.' :' \ '! I .1

e e e . ' e t r ' t ' J ,, I ' '.! ',.!{ .l ' 'J ~-.' :' \ '! I . 1 THE CONCORDIENSIS 25 •t• A STUDY IN CONVERSATION. +t• •:• (Being one which 'is prevalent in home·s this +t• •:• time of year.) •) \H'm! What's this, my boy-reading a news- paper? vVhy aren't you doing your school work? You known you're mother and I expect you to graduate this Spring.\ \Gee pa, I can't study no morel I'm sick 'nd tired of it. Say, lemme quit 'nd go to work, wilt you?\ \Wh-what's that! Quit and---say, what's the matter with you, anyway? You sick?\ \Naw I ain't sick. I know what I'n1 talking about, I tell you. I just don't want to waste half o · my life spouting this darn Germ~\ \Harold!\ \-shouting this German stuff. Lookit Jake got a job lookit him. Goldberger. He quit last year 'nd ushering in the opera house 'nd now He's head usher 'nd getting seven dollars per week.\ \But-\ \I want to get a job like that too. Before all these guys get in ahead o' me. I'm sick o' hang- ing 'round with a lot o' little kids, I atn. I-\ \Why son, I-I hardly know what to say. I'm disappointed, I must confess. Deeply disap- pointed. You know I never had. any college education, and I was hoping you could have one.\ \Aw college! I don't want to go to no college. What's the good?'' \Much good, .gon. Much good. And I had practically decided that. you should go.\ \I don't WANT to go to no college, I'm telling you!\ \But Harold, I want you TO go!'' \Don't care. I won't, that's aU!'' \HAROLD! You WILL go, I say! What do you tnean-speaking to me like that?\ \Urn! Well, I don't want to. anyway.\ \I had looked forward to your getting a good education. 0 course, I do not want it to he all hard work for you; I'tn expecting to see you do a little football now and then, and-\ \Sure! I'll make the football team. I'm pretty good at-H \Yes yes! I know! But you'll attend strictly to your lessons the first thing you do.\ \Say I don't know, pa-looks pretty good at that!\ \Now look here'! 'There'll be no rou-stabouting, understand? If you go, I shall give you a small weekly aUowance and you will run up N 0 bills!\ \Say gee wihz, pa-you'll have to give n1e enough now! BiU Bailey says they have big dances pretty near every week, and I'll have to go to them, won't I?\ ''Not all of them necessarily. Besides it is doubtful whether you will go at all or not.\ \Sure I'll go! And •say, you got to let me start smoking you know. Everybody does in college. And-\ \Well I should-\ \And I~ll join a frat, 'cause they,re the swell- est fellas.\ \Now-\ \You'll have to buy me a dress suit before I g·o. Bill says he wear'S 'em all the time.'~ \But- \That's the ole 'ball game, Pa! !\.1e for colleg-e, every time! Where's the ole German hook-I'm always loosing-\' '.:HAROLD! DROP THAT BOOK! Tomorrow you go to work in my office-and you won,t get seven dollars .per week!\ THE DESERT OPERA TOR. By W. M. M. 0 man, what band of slavery Is this I took upon my head With joy, 'neath which my heart has bled At loss of friend ·and life's variety! Your word could cheer my lonely night, Take all the pain from out myday, And keep these sounds-sea osounds!-away. And change these desert shades to light. I do not ask for lighter task; A dearer one God could not give: tTis only that I wish to live! A face, a voice is all I ask! But threatos, nor tears, nor words of prayer Nor n1adness in death's glassy eyes Nor hun1an shrieks, nor vultures' cries Can tnove yon. Man, who do not care .

l ' I : \ i . ; ! I I i l ' I : ' i ! . ' . ' I ' ' ' I ' i : ' I I l' ' i I I i 1 26 THE CONCORDIENSIS ++++++++++++++++++++++ + + •• + + ON HOFFY'S EYES . :By Hafiz. ++++++++++++++++++++++ ' 0 bright inscrutable, we cannot tell Whether your glinting steel is grey or yell- Ow, as we stand reluctant with oswift-billowing knees Confronting those twin gnm dissecting mys- teries. Whether in Babylon or Nineveh Or Kubla Khan or Xanadu or Leh Or by the waters of Abana and Pharphar Or Ophir-wards where Dickey-birdies are, What can avail of guile and braggadocio What skill of tierce and quart and rapier thrust and so-oSo, What hardy sturdy brazenness of heroes Undaunted by the vengeance that was Nero's- 0£ what avail to sm.ile and smile and be a vil- lain, And lie and lie and keep a-millin', And bull and bull howe'er so willin'- Our thews Are turned to wate. and our sinews Droop and fail before the phiz That so abate-s us at that quizz- And we are pale and quail before those lynx's Eyes that rise befoxe us like the Sphynx's- And we grow specter-thin and lose our n1oral zest From thinking of our maundering and stuttering, A_nd burbling and fluttering And muttering, At that last oral test- 0 tempora, 0 syllogisms,. 0 savage eyes, 0 paroxysms, 0 Undistributed Middle and all that Bosh, 0 Gosh! A movement is on foot in athletic circles tG provide some means of recompense for the candidates for athletic managerships 1vvho stand high at the cfose of competition but do not attain the coveted election. A committee composed of the present assistant managers of baseball, basketball and foot- ball have been en1powered by the athletic board to take definite steps in the n1atter. In the recent meeting of the athletic board, it was voted not to have a 'versity hockey team this season. The action was taken because of several games recently played by a tean1 composed of Union Col- lege 111en. It is a misfortune that hockey ·can not be taken up at Union, as we evident- ly possess son1e excellent material. As a result of the recent mid-year ex- aminations, 17 freshmen failed to pass thei1r required subjects and were dropped from the college rolls. Several others were placed on probation. The entering class now num ... bers 173. TWILIGHT. ~ + \' ++++++++++++++++++++++ I think of the lurid sunset passed, the magtc oi· the colors fading into the sombreness of the ominous half-light. I stare at the small brilliant points of artificial light, and dream O'f the glare of the restaurants, the sparkling of eyes, the lilt of music, the rhythm of the dance, the subtle exhilaration of flowing w1ne. Then of the contrast of the deepening gloom, the hush of sleep, the security of well-traveled streets; of the dangers and lurking tnenace.g of the dark alley. I wonder at the stupid drowsiness of the or- dinary people, at the alert nimbleness of the pick- pocket:- the vigilance of the thief, and the anguish of the outcast. Ah, this is it! It ioS the mystery, the uncertainty, the secrecy, the inpenetrability of human activity enacted under the protecting veil of night, that attracts rne. Th1s is what twilight means to me. It fascinates me. At a 1neeting of the sophomore class Tuesday noon in chapel, Walter Hochuli was elected secretary-treasurer for the year. Hochuli has been active in 'varsity and class athletics and in public speaking. He vvil undoubtedly fill his new office well. ! I r . ' ' :; / I .· I .. I . l

1 ':; < ' ', ' ' ' I \ I 'l ! I r . . , THE CONCORDIENSIS. 27 ++++++++++++++++++++++ + + (-+ TO A T-SHIRT +t• (• On Seeing One on a Student's Body at •l+ +!+ Chapel. •%• •%• Bv E. W. Moore. ·:· .. + + ++++++++++++++++++++++ Ha! whaur ye gaun, ye under-shirtie? Your appearance proclaims you dirty; I canna 'Say but ye strunt rarely, 'Fore Prexy's face; And faith! I fear ye fit but sparely In sic a place. Ye ugly, yellow, homely garment, Detested, shunned by soap an' varmint, How daur ye set yoursel upon him- Sae fine a laddie? Gae sotnewhere else and shed your wool-lint On some poor body. * * * * * * * . 0 wad some Power the giftie gie us To see oursels as ithers see us! I r wad frae mony a blunder free us, An' foolish notion: What sloppiness in dre'Ss wad lea've us, An' ev'n devotion! Morse Hall, the Cornell chemical labora- tory, was wiped out by fire early on the morning of Sunday, February 13, with a loss of $300,000. J. C. Ashtnead, of basketball fame, saved radium valued at $1,000. Junior \V eek girls served coffee to the students who fought the fire. The next n1eeting of the Chemistry C1uh will be held on Monday, February 21. The program committee is busy preparing an interesting schedule of subjects for this term. It is hoped that this meeting will be '\Veil supported. The Garnet photograph of the Inter-- fraternity Conference will be taken at White's studio Saturday at one o'clock. All n1en1bers are urged to be present . ++++++++++++++++++++++ + + ·~ PIERROT. +t• ~ 4 ... '+ . .,. ++++++++++++++++++++++ The lamp is out, the gla'Sses broken, The songs have fainted, the rose is dead, Poor Pierrot, his swift dance ended Rests his weary head. Poor Pierrot, who dancest for me, Kind thou art when all is said, Who hast, for my own pleasure only, The languid evening sped. Thy dance, like breezes 'Softly blowing, Set waters in my heart to flowing. Cruel boy come, nay, do not start, Come close and get thy kiss sweetheart. The new Radio Club has been quite active during the last few weeks. Messages from President Richmond to the presidents of both the University of Pittsburgh and of Cornell, have been put through, and com- tnunication has been established with the lTniversity of Michigan. .All this work was done on the small, 2f)0 \\Vatt set. Some new apparatus has recently been added and the set tuned up, so that still better results are assured. O·w·ing to punctured condenser plates, the n1arconi 2 K. W. set is not now in opera- tion, but will be as soon as new plates can be procured. FINDS KISSING NO CRIME. J\f agis_trate discharges youth who saluted schoolgirl hostess. -New York Times. Come on fellows; we've got the law on our side . _ The gymnasium was used last evening for thet Charity Ball, which was given for the benefit of the Mercy Hospital. A few Union st:udents were among the dancers.

I I . 1 I : I' I : I ' \ ! ' ! ! : i i i I . i ' : ; ; I 28 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE LITTLE OLD WOMAN. The little old woman sits at the moving- picture show. Her worn hands are folded in quiet peace over the tarnished clasps of her pocketbook, £1rayed with the long usage of meagre years. Her mouth shows the ef- fect of unmurmuring struggle against the bleakness of poverty and unlovely labor. Relaxed now into a half-smile her lips are quick to respond to the shifting emotions of the screen. Youth and beauty flash before her. Gay romance comes with its journey's end of lov- ers' meetings. Life, pulsing, throbbing, sweet, comes g;rippingly to her, soothing her tired eyes into a lovelier vision of the good- ness of God's earth and His creatures. Trag- edy beckons to her, its all-seeing eye fixed on the immutable sweep of event. She sees her own youth refracted back at her with prismatic gleams of the sunshine she saw but never felt. The poignant beauty of springtime nature intoxicates her with a nameless wonder. The sodden Every-Day drops off, and she is alive with a new vib- rancy of emotion. The show ends. The piano, finished voic- ing the mute flow of events, stops after a jangling finale. As she n1oves past n1e, the h un1drum of her life settles in again upon her mouth and the wrinkles around her eyes. Ah, the tragedy of coming down fron1 moun- tain tops! The Old Woman with the Faded Little Face has melted into the crowd.-Targum. The Radio Club reported at V./hite's studio on Wednesday for the annual photograph. The club will hold a regular meeting- to- rn orr ow night. Forty-three tnen recently reported for the Press Club's 1917 Garnet photograph at \Vhite's studio. /\ ·ruling recently passed by the University of I{ansas requires that every able-bodied n1ale student in the university must play football at least twice a week. The principal parts of the verb flunco ac- cording to our Latin Department: flunco, flunkere, faculty, fire 'em.-Ex. '. '' \ \

. a es. ph. at ied ac- ' <~ ._:,~ .... ·~ ., ·!·~ ' \ \ \ .· I JOIN OUR CLUB AND OWN A BICYCLE on our easy payment plan, $1 down and $1 a week, and take your choice of the following 1-Iigh Grade Wheels: New England, Iver-Johnson, American, Pope l\t1otor Bike By joining now you secure a discount ot 5, 7 or 10 percent. Let us give you particulars. BUR . KE 230 So Centre St Sole Agent Excelsior an~ Henderson ' . • ' Motorcycles. Phone 2634. -----·------- ------ ---------·--··----- ~ --. - -- -- ---------·-------- - ----- \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 19{]6 1012 1907 1913 1908 191-i E. W. MA.NDEVILLF., '17 Colle4c Reprett-nt~»tive NEAR BARNEY'S 1915 - -·-- ---~ ---·- -- -- ----- -~--- --·- -------------- The \V allace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilities insure our patrons the broadest, n1ost ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So Ferry Street ''Look for the Cow's Hc-nd'' .,, © >vy> a~'Donca.ster RROW COLLAR Shows over the coat in back · 1 ' I 10W shnrp, smart curveawav front; good knot and slidespac·e OJ ~or c)J::::c I ~J NU 1 .. ::Uii:'fT, PE.~B~DY A CO., Inc., Mckers, TROY, N. Y - ·- .......,.. ___ ~--- CLEP~NLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- \vays an indicator of refinement. Our prices n1ake cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. \Ve clean everything that needs clcan- i;1 ~·-all hi g-h-e;rade work guaranteed at very re2.son8.ble prices. \\Ale c311 for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909-J 4·10 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 44:89 WHEN IT RA.IJ'~S Il\T A. I-ITJRP..Y OUT FOR PT .EASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

If you are a real genius, keep it to yourself. If you are a real eighteen carat article Folks will find out about you, and You will get your reward. A College Man's Store of the \Square Deal Sort'' We have an ideal of what a college 111an's clothing store ought to be, and we try to live up to it-to do by you as we would have you do by us. Good storekeeping is something more than expending our energy in trying to catch the nin1ble dollars and cents. When you decide to buy here, we on our part resolve that your purchase shall please you so cotnpletely that you think of this store first when you wish to buy again. You are to feel that we have acted honorably toward you. and have been truly helpful in value and service. You are to feel that this is a college n1an's store of the \square deal.\ Exclusive Models-Exclusive Fabrics. Created By Us-For You. SUITS OVERCOATS .,.. SIOT0$30 SIOT0$30 YOUR HOLIDAY HAT-A DERBY \The Store of Today-Four Hours From Broadway.\ HTD 455 STATE STREET Schenectady __.,... Art Press - _, ,:·

- ./ .;/_<. .. ,_ e CONCORDIENSIS ','. :' . ·, ····· .. :, . .....,..!---------------------.......---............-..-..., I 1~: == :::::::::=:!.1 VOLUME 39 FEBRUARY 24, 1916 NO. rs PUBL.ISHED WEEKLY BY THE . STUDENTS OF Ul~ION UNIVERSITY

UNION UNIVERSI1Y CHARLES AlJEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D •• LL.D .. Chancellor --=--~~~==· t'==\\=\' _..,.,_. ___ ~-·~- .. ------~ UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: L C~»ursea leading to tile d-egree o:f A. B. CLASSICAL CouRSit A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B-This course may be pur sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. 2. Vonrae leading to the degree of Ph. B. LA TIN -SCIENTIFIC CouRsE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3o Cour1.1e- leading to the degree o:f B. S. ScrtNTU'IC CouRSE- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Oonr•e leading to the clegre~ of B. E. Ot<:NERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematic~, the sciences, the funda- nwntal principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and n1odern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for son1e of the general engineering studies. Eti\CTRICAL ENGINr:ERING CouRSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. ~'• Cour•e• leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING 'to DEGREE or M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRsP: I.EADING TO DEGJt!Ut OJ M. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Counst LF.ADING To DECilE:£ oF PH. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requir~s for admis- sion the degree of l\t1 S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News. Confectionery Phone 2925-W - DEPAR'TMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE. Founded 1838--A con1plete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate respon-sibility under supervisi()n. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to imp.roved methods. V/ith these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which '\viU meet the highest demands of modern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- nlission tnust present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physics, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union Colleg-e, Schenectady, N. Y., has arrang-ed for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. The academic year hegins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- ouiries and other communication'S should be ad- dressed to THOMAS ORDWAY, M.D .. Dean. Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholty devoted to i!s use. The cour~e leading to the degree of LL. B. 11 three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $I 10. For cataloQ\nt\ nr other in formation, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months earh, Fees, $oo.oo per term. For catalogue giving- full information, address: AtFRI~!) B. H UF.S'l'~D, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albanyf N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25o .. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street AcroGs from College Gate CI-IAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate .~ ;~ ·.., /1 if_,} ·' ' '•. ' ' l ·~ ·' ' . .

ed ed ds . of dy, 1n- ad- of its is fee, s: u ION CO' 1 r:\ t: . L~ ... ._ ... 1 916 Phi Beta Kappa Elections ~ . .~ ~ . /1 if_,} ·' ' ... AVROM M. JACOBS MILTON H. STERNFELT ' ' l ·~ ·' ' . . JAMES B. TAYLOR RICHARD E. TAYLOR LEE C. FLETCHER CARROLL GUNNING

f 'I ',•'. ·,, : :' ~ ' ' .'·' / II., · .. The Concordiensis - r - : VOL. 39 FEBRUARY 24, 1916 NO. 15 UNION SHOWS 'FLASH OF OLD TIME FORM AND DEFEATS WILLIAMS. Team Does Best Work of the Present Sea .. son-Mudge Makes Sensational Basket. There was nothing in common between the team which was beaten last week by St. Law·rence and that which triumphed over Williams in the gymnasium on Thursday night. It seemed as if the shades of the Beavers and Tiedie Woods had returned to take up their old places on the floor of the Gymnasium Alumnorum for our new team played better basketball than they knew how and made every pass sure and every oppor- tunity to make field baskets count. Only in t:he shooting of fouls was the Garnet at all below form but this factor did not eifect the fnal result of the contest so no one minded that oll!r free shots were not taken advantage of. The feature play of the game was a basket made by Jimmie Mudge from the Williams foul line. It was made all the more remark- able by the fact that he did not even shoot for a goal but essayed to pass to Y ovits who ·was in the extreme corner o£ the court. The ball slipped out of the hands of the blonde forward and instead of going toward Izzie it took a bee line course toward the basket, hit the iron and dropped in while Jimmie followed it up and wanted another try for the same basket. Williams was somewhat crippled and took the floor minus the services o£ Captain Gat=- field, LaPlant and Bacon. The new team did hot wotk very smoothly at the start and as a result Union tan up a lead ot eight points before the Massachusetts team could score. Then Vietor shot one in tram under the basket and Howland added another ftom the center of the floor. Then Mudge gave a wonderful exhibition of floor work and af- ter passing the ball around the whole Wil-- liams team he gave it to Scoby under the basket and Hal dropped it in for two more points. ~he Gatent did not slow up tot a minute and before the half ended had run up a score ot 15 points to 8 for the Purple. The second half was marked by ::t great deal o£ personal fouling and H. Jones, who was shooting the fouls tor vVilliams, took advantage of the majority ot the chances offered and pulled the score ot his team up within striking distance of the Garnet. At this point Coach Dawson took out Zimmer. \Vitbeck and Yovits and sent in Root, Franck and Hummer. This broke up the pass work ot the team but Union had run up such a 1ead in the early part that thet·e was not much danger from the Berkshire team. ! n the last few minutes Joe Haubner was sent in and the fight which he added to the team was enough to hold down the visitors until th~ final whistle was blown by Wa1ty Girting~

10 THE CONOORDIENSlS. UNION. F.B. Scoby, rf. ---------- 4 IVI udge, lf. ---·------ 2 vVitbeck, c. --------- 2 Zimmer, rg. ------- 0 Yovits, lg. ---------- 2 ·Roof, lg~ ----------- 0 Franck, c. ---------- 0 li 0 . ummer, rg. ----·-- }laubner, lg. ------- 0 10 WILLIAMS. Howland, rf. --·---- \Tietor, lf. --------- F. Jones, c. -------- J. Jones, rg. ------- Dunn, lg. --------·-- Wright, 1£. --------- 1 . 1 ~~eWlS, g. ---------- F.B. 2 1 1 3 0 0 0 7 P.B. 0 5 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 8 P.B. 0 0 9 0 0 0 0 9 Total 8 9 4 3 4 0 0 0 0 28 Total 4 2 11 6 0 0 0 23 Score at half time-D nion, 15; Williams, t. Referee-Kingston. Umpire-Tilden. 'fimekeeper-Girling. Ti1ne of periods-20 minutes. AMHERST AGAIN DEFEATS UNION. Poor Foul Shooting Costly-Score 24 to 22. Union could not maintain the high speed •Nhich we showed Williams on Thursday -r;ight and as a result Amherst adn1inistered their second defeat of the season and inci- dentally Union lost her second 'varsity game in the new gyn1. After getting away to a very poor start in the first half, Captain Zimn1er led his men back at the beginning of the second period and cut loose with such 1 flash of forn1. that the lead of the visitors was speedily overcome and Union went into the van. However the A1nherst tean1 was not to be outdone and did not give up hope but ca1ne back and again took the lead an(l held it till the finish. The game was one of the hardest played by the .Union team this year and the great desire of each team to clinch a victory made the players over an-_ xious and there was a great deal of fouling. Zimmer and Mudge had another off night on foul shooting and made good only 8 out of 25 l ries from the 15 foot line. At the start of the game Amherst began to pile up a score that soon began to look as if were insurtnountable. Sawyer, at center, and Captain Widmayer at left guard, formed a combination that swept down the floor 1 ime after time and at each rush Sawyer made a basket, until finally Witbeck began to solve the puzzle and then he succeeded in break- jug it up. Union scored only two field bas- kets in this half, one by Scoby and the other by Zimmer. The Garnet had eight chances ro make fouls count in this period but Zim- mer and }in1mie Mudge were unable to make any of them good. At the start of the second half it looked 1s if Union would sweep all opposition off from the floor and score as they pleased. Zip made a field basket in the first minute Jnd quickly added four more points on fouls. ~rhen ... 1\mherst scored once and Zip again took up the task of evening up the score and made another field goal. At this point Cap- tain Widmayer and Weeden were banished for personal fouls and Tow and Washburn came into the game. Witbeck and Scoby each tore down the floor for a basket and Union was in the lead for the first time in the game. But the joy was to be for but a minute, for Sawyer, vV ashburn and Maynard quickly 1nade up for lost time and set up a lead that we vvere unable to overco1ne and as a result the Garnet team went down to the second defeat in our new gym. Savvyer and Captain \iVidmayer were the stars of the A tnherst tean1 while Scoby and Yovits did the best work for Union. :,.;; ' ., ,. )',1· ·'' . ' : :~. ; ·1 { ; 'ii -,) :·i· ·' .. >'. .' /'. S t .~ COl ~·Iud Wit1 Zin1: Yov: \Nee 1\1ay Saw Vvid .Ashl Tow \lVa~ R( U: Ti Sc :OR. In to} t~.ble: .. rrat \1 too ' ells'~ ence rate( Pver Dial ' JOUr at C rtold sure C:'nte 1J10S1 cond .. sp1n

'', ,, I ... )',1· ·'' . ' ... · ... /'. 1'1I£ CONCORDIENSIS 11 ~uNION .. F.B. Scobv, rt. ---------- 2 ~·Iudge, lf. ---------- 0 Witbeck, c. ---------- 1 Zin1mer, rg. ---------- 3 Y ovits, lg. ----------- 1 7 AMHERST. F.B. \.iV eeden, 1£. -------- 1 1\1aynard, rf. -------- 1 S ., 6 ~ awyer, c. --------- Vvidmayer, lg. ------- 1 .Ashley, rg. --------- 0 Tow, 1£. -------------- 1 \iV ashburn, lg. ------ 1 - 11 Referee, Tilden. Umpire-Kingston. Tilnekeeper-Girling. P.B. 0 0 0 8 0 8 F.P. 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 2 Total 4 0 2 14 2 22 Total 2 3 12 2 0 3 2 24 Score at half time-Amherst, 14; Union, 4. :OR. HALE HAS :ENVIAELE REPUTA- TION AS CRITI~C. In speaking of the choosing of a successor to John Howells, who is rec()gnized as the t~.blest critic in the country, The Boston .. rranscript says: \There is Pro£essor Edward Everett Hale, too, as a successor already in sight to How- ells's chair as American critic pruT-excell- ence. Professor Hale proves his title to be rated a critic of the first quality and rank, Pvery now and then, by his articles in The Dial, now the best purely critical literary journal in the country, though established at Chicago. Take M~r. Hale's study of Ar- nold Bennett's \These Twain,\ and you find . surely, a most intelligent and sympathetic C:'ntering into the author's purpose; and the 1nost adn1irable clearness 1n expressing in condensed and sumn1arized forn1 t11e- very . ' . . -' sptnt of the characters ancl their conduct. 'Only great criticism can do that. You would almost as soon take Hale's su1nming-up of Clayhanger as Bennett's own and you feel sure, n1oreover, that he understands the puz- zling Hilda quite as Y\rell as does the author hin1self! Clayhanger \cautious and hesitat- ing yet managing to be successful, longing for romance, yet resigned to an ordinary ex- istence, grandiose in conception and slipshod in execution, 1naking everything do while ~ t would, and waiting for things to turn up, t1mid and proud, :meditative and judicial, and yet generally saying 'what does it matter?' --a rebel against authority yet outwardly apologetic, vowing h.e would never again do what he was about to do the next day, wish- ing for adventure yet devoted to his home and dependent on its hundred minor com- forts, undecided for 1nonths, and acting on tbe spur of a moment's impulse-altogether r.t very inconsistent and h urn an person,\- such is the intrinsic study and such the un- c:lerstanding that only a true critic brings to bear. The analysis of Hilda is not less to the very life and soul of Bennett's old hero- ine. Incidentally, we n1ay be permitted to remark that Edward E. Hale is the son of his father (born in Boston in 1863) and hands on the tradition of a noble Boston family.\ PREXY'S DATES. Friday, February l8-Alun1ni dinner in Gloversville. Sunday, February 20-Dr .Richn1ond will rreach at the University Place Church in )Jew York. Monday and Tuesday, February 21 and 22-Prexy will be the guest of Colonel Townsley at West Point. Saturday, February 26-Phi Beta Kappa (!inner at the Ten Eyck, Albany . Thursday, March !1-Ali.tn1ni dinner at Rochester. Saturday, March 11.-Dr. Richmond vvi11 address the Westchester County Teach- ers' Association at Yonkers.

I 'I 'i I I I I 12 CO·LLE.GE NOTES. Hollis Witbeck '19 has been pledged to Delta Phi, John Vought ex. '15 has been around the campus during the past week .. Walter Hochuli has been elected secre- tary and treasu,rer of the class of 1918. He i akes the place 6£ Raymond Glenn who has left college .. Judson Griswold '19 had his left foot !:lroken by being run over by a heavy sleigh in Albany Tuesday. He was removed to the Albany Hospital but will be out of col- lege for some time. Brenton Taylor has been elected histor- ian of the class of 1919. Phi Gamma Delta defeated Chi Psi in a bowling contest Monday night. Galbraith had high game with a score of 201. A picture was taken for the Garnet of the track candidates on last F[\iday. William Ashton ex. '19 has entered Col- urnbia. Miss ] ane Addams, the philanthropist of \flu11 House, said in a discussion of eugenics in Chicago: \Children are never quite so ignorant as we think they are. There is a Chicago man who said to his little daughter one evening: \ 'Now that the stork has brought you a clear little baby brother, I want you to write a nice letter about it to brother Jack at (:ollege. Tell him we went out and looked under one of the big cabbage plants, and there we found a dear, sweet baby brother, vvith blue eyes and red hair, that the good kind stork had left for us.' SOPHOMORESTAKE THE LEADIN THE INTER-CLASS SERIES. The fourth round in the inter:..class basket- ball series saw the tie that existed between lhe freshmen and the sophomores broken. While the first year men were loosing to the i uniors, the so phs were administering a very decisive beating to the senior team. There has been some discussion as to the eligibility of Moynihan to play with the sophs as he has an A. U. A. in basketball and it is pos- sible that the seniors will protest this game on this ground. As has been the case in all of the games in the series the basket shoot- ing of all of the teams was very poor and as a. result all of the games were won by small scores. The standing : Won. Lost. P.C. ~ h 3 1 .750 \.. op omores __ ----- Juniors __ --------- 2 2 .500 F1reshmen -----·---- 2 2 .500 ~ . ..... entors ------------ 1 3 .250 NEW YORK TRIP OF MUSICAL CLUBS. All is in readiness for the biggest trip that the musical clubs will take this year, and already some of the songbirds have bid farewell to the campus and started for the metropolis. The remainder of the men will leave tomorrow morning at 7 :30 A. M. and go to Mt. Kisco by way of New York <tnd the Pawling Local, one of the prover- bially slow trains of the Harlen1 Road. After ~hey have charmed this quiet town with their music, the men will return to New ·vork and on Saturday night will give their annual New York concert in Bretton Hall. 'rhis is always a rendezvous for all of the New York alumni and for this reason it is always well attended. Several new songs have been worked up by the Glee Club and Shelley Moora is sure to score a big hit in ,; Auf Wiedersehen.\ ' \'Yes papa,' said the little girl meekly. \She wrote her letter and when her fath- er went to post it he thought, since it was not sealed, that he'd see what she had said. \V hat she had said was this: \ 'Dear Jack :-1 win the half dollar. 1t's After the usual pruning, due to scholar- ship and other reasons, the following n1.en a l)oy.' \--Exchange. ~ ' ' .

.... ,. :'~ ! l .> .-'{·;. . ~' ' 'l :·, .::i '·\~ .. . :i \ .. \ : ,j I . '. •.,1 } :.: ' . r ,. ·. ~ i '. l,· i'' ; . \- ~ ' ' . THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 are left to make the trip : . 1916-. Gardner,. Hooper, Dikeman, Em-- bree and De Rouville . 1917-Boomhower, Downs, Williams, Lester, Meade and Hawn. 1918-Talbot, Hoag, Dorion, Cameron, J(ing, Younie, Cook, Frasier, Taylor and Kennedy. 1919-Moore, Potter, Greene, Faust, Phillip, man. Townsend, Clark, Kelsey and Bow- Messrs. Parker, Moore and Goggin will also acompany the club. 1\HE COLLEGE AND PREPAREDNESS It is not strange that public ·opinion in this country should be so agitated about our na- tional safety. The present European war came upon no nation more suddenly than our own. Our ideals and traditions were such that we could not take seriously the armed camps of Europe or believe that any European nation desired to fight. To have the world as we understood it fall apart so suddenly was enough to make us doubt everything, and as the horrors of the war and its huge proportions beca1ne clear, even the unemotional American 1night well won- der if his countrymen had not been living in a fool's paradise. The preparation needed for national safe- fY is now the all-absorbing topic. All kinds of 1nen are offering advice and their views are so varied and expressed with such fer- -vor that the confusion is great. The ignor- ance of our leading congressmen when they talk about ships and guns, while it 1nay be proof of the sincerity of our love of peace, is :aot reassuring to those who feel that in the ;lrmy and navy lies our only safety. Much advice biased by self or professional inter- ·est is to be expected and the views of ex- tremists may be detected. One might think, however, that the advice from our colleges at such a time would be calm and founded in sound judgn1ent. In the writer's opinion at least, this has not proved to be the case. ;T'he vievvs expressed by President Rich- 1nond and Dean Ripton are in sharp contrast ::o the call to arms heard in many other well l ... nown colleges. The idea of turning the college into a n1ilitary training camp as a proper step in a well ordered scheme for national preparedness seems to them not only in itself unwise, but a trivial contribu- tion to public thought at such a time as this. Dr. Richmond points out the economic wastefulness of a syste1n which makes the best trained minds of the country food for powder on the opening of hostilities. One could go further and say that superficial 1nilitary training, such as battalion drills and elective courses on military science now being hastily adopted in several colleges, is sure to turn out men likely to be commis- sioned officers in time of war but whose training makes them nothing short of a men- ace to future armies. Kipling's idea of the school boy officers of England was explod- ed in the South African war, and the pres- sent war has demonstrated again the essen- tial need of a thorough military education for officers. Criticism like this is sound, but, save as it may protect us from error, is not construc- tive. What can the colleges do for na- tional defense is a legitimate question, and Dean Ripton in his Junior Week sermon and in many class-room lectures has offered a program. In the first place, let us enlarge ~)ur present military coll_eges, West Point, etc., and if necessary establish others, for all will agree if force is necessary for our protection we must understand thoroughly how to wield it. West Point has already set a standard for military education famous throughout the world, and we should not de- part from it. American colleges are not or- ganized for such \vork and nothing short of an entire reorganization would justify their undertaking it. The American college has, however, a def- inite and legitimate purpose, to wit: The en- riching and training of men's n1inds that they may deal \visely with the con1plicated problems of modern life. Thjs is in itself

' ' : I ' I i i ' ' ' 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS a direct contribution to national strength, and when a college faculty can further in- s-pire the undergraduates with a love for righteousness and justice to all men, they have done a patriotic service of the first order. Again, our colleges provide the country with trained scientists. The mod- ern applications of chemistry and engi- neering are fundamental in successful war- fare. This is the outstanding fact in Ger- nlany's remarkable success, and it is very '' doubtful if the colleges can defend their country better than by graduating boys thoroughly prepared in such subjects. As Jar as Union College itself g-oes, our chem- ical and electrical laboratories are our most valuable drill grounds. In short, the most valuable service the col- lege can render in national preparedness is The work of the class-room where n1en are taught to think clearly and love justice and of the laboratory where n1en study and ap- ply· nature's forces. Many of us feel that had ideals have been Germany's undoing, but ·all will admit that applied science has 1nade her formidable. Let our colleges, therefore, devote their full strength to train- ing An1ericans to think rightly on interna- tional affairs and to compete successfully 1 Ni th ·all rivals in the field of applied science. This is their great contribution to national defense. C. N. WALDRON. There will be no dancing· in the R. P. I. gym after the R. P. I.-Union game. ALL! · The wind howled and the little hard pel- lets· of snow dashed by its might struck and ~tung like the lash of a loaded whip. The tnan numb with cold crouched over the neck of his horse struggling bravely through the snow. He must reach the station of the Mounted Police. He must! Fear made the hunted man spur his steed to greater ef- forts. The weary animal responded heartily and the rider's heart was filled with com- passing for the poor dumb servitor that alone he could call his friend-that had carried him a hard journey all day long and now was :Carrying him out into the storm and the night-was offering with a will his full strength to save his rider's life-for fur- ther crime. A sense of the uselessness of it all filled the desperado's mind. What did it matter after all? Then came utter, grip- ping loneson1eness and the man felt for his horse the sweetest feeling of \ friendship. ;rhen came the haunting fear again. Life was dear after all. Dear when he thought that behind in the night and snow was that other desperate man armed, on a fresh horse, grimly hunting his life. * * * * In the evening the two desperadoes had 1idden into the same settlement within a few hours of each other. They drank to- gether in the fellowship of vice. Then more drink, a game, and a fight in which the nighwayman was disarmed save for his knife and was driven forth by the murderer. No one had cared to interfere. The town was tid of them both, who cared what followed? 'rhe pursued sought only the protection of the police and the pursuer the life of the other. * * * * The weary horse struggled on. Then after a few unsteady steps he sank in the snow c:tnd could not rise again. Again loneliness tnore keen, more gripping seized the horse- In an but again that feeling was banished by fear--fear that he had never known before- fear foreboding that which he could not tell. He bent and touched the head half-raised to meet his caress-HGood-bye Bill\-and he left his friend to die, and numb with cold stumbled stiffly on that HE might NOT die. Then a horse and rider loo·med up as though borne on the gale. There was no shot. Hate impelled the pursuer to kill his quarry with his very hands. He threw himself from his horse upon his victim. .;; ',;' ,,, ;i· :~.; I,; ' ' ,/ .. ~· •' .. , ' .. ~. ·I·•· ' .<i ' ' ... . 1 . .:;~ ; ··'· ···; .;· ., ) t). <· < l ,I !I ' ,'.t; ' ' The' t~nif( . ga1n rnov 'r we In cd t The ed £: rhe' kno'\ men doul It thin1 . a Wl has ., ' abou on ] r'h 1 e1 . ] Jer, . fe iy clas~ whic heal R. I Bow a.nd gooc it . lS fully mee1 distC3 ~s w year In \VOrl clasE ~lar Firs· . 1•01n plac1 be h

', ',•·, ' :~.; I,; . '' •' ·I·•· ' .<i ' ... ' ·j;'·;~ I ··'· ' . '''i <· < l ,I THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 They rolled in the snow each grasping a ·knife and slashing blindly, fiercely. They gained their feet, swayed and with the same movement drew apart for rootn to strike. 'rwo knives descended to their mark. \ * * * * In the morning when the storm had pass- ed the Mounted Police found the bodies . The conjectural account of it all was pass- ed from lip to lip with congratulations on rhe \good riddance\ for both men were well known. That was all save the simple inter- ment-all save the stain and the pain of a double crime on the Great World Soul. J. B. T., '16. TRACK PROSPECTS. It is too early yet to be able to tell any- thing definite about the prospects of having a winning track team but Captain Mallen has already issued a call for candidates and about thirty are now practicing in the gym on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. r1'here is no doubt but that the loss of But- ler, Dent, Peterson and Gilman will be keen- :y felt so it is to be hoped that the entering class will contain some good material with which Dr. Mac can build up a team that will he able to take the measure of Hamilton and R. P. I. It is already known that La\v Bowman has marked ability in the shot put a.nd Moora and Davidson have done some good work in the sprints in prep school, but it is in the half and tnile that we are woe- fully weak and unless the coming intercla~s meets produce some one who can run these distances in good time the team will not be ~s well balanced as it has been in forn1er years. In order to foster interest in the track \Vork there will be a series of indoor inter- class meets held in the gymnasium during ~larch. Points will be given as follows: Fi:st place, five points; second place, three l•Otnts ; third place, two points; and fourth place, one point. Three separate meets will be held and the schedule of events will be as follows: March 3rd and lOth- Forty yard dash. Running high jump. Twelve pound shot put. Half mile run. Forty yard low hurdles. March 17th- Forty yard dash. Running broad jump. Forty yard high hurdles. One mile run. Sixteen pound shot put. RADIO CLUB ELECTS NEW MEMBERS . . A regular meeting of the Radio Club was held in the Electrical Laboratory on last Friday and at that time the following asso- ciate members were admitted to full n~em­ bership subject to the approval of D.r. Up- son. Baker '16, Emmerling '17, Bull '17. Ivlursa '17, Terry '18, Newman '18, Pinheiro· '18, Craven '19, and Shan1.berger '19. Gal- braith '17, Swart '18, So '18, and Junqueiro '19 were admitted to the club as associate members. Regular classes in code practice are now being held in the Electrical Laboratory on Tuesdays and Fridays at 1 :30 and on Wed- nesdays at 10 :00 A. M. These classes are open to all students whether they are tnem- bers of the club or not. The club has also arranged for a series nf lectures which will be given in the near fu- tun~ and to which the student body is in- vited. These will be given by Dr. Berg and will begin with a description of the ele- mentary principles of radio signaling and will gradually lead up to the more advanced ideas of wireless telegraphy and telephony. Dr. Berg will introduce no more mathema- tics into his lectures than is necessary for it is his desire to make his talks so clea.r that aH of the students will be able to understand them and thus he hopes to interest tnore in the work of the club.

16 ·TRE :CQNCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and NewsWeekly PubHshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE ......_...__~ Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class 1\.fatter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman '17 :F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, 'i7 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. This issue is edited by William C. Lough-- lin. Very many times in the past year there has etrisen in the minds of the editors o£ the Con- cordy the idea that some day we would be able to give up the old book form of our publication and would be able to get out a paper in the forn1. of a newspaper which tnight appear as much as twice a week and which would be devoted strictly to college news instead of being divided between news and stori~s as the present paper is. At the present time we are almost the only col- lege that still clings to the old form of com- bining their literary magazine with their newspaper. Union should be able to support a good newspaper and also a or an issue similar Cow of \Vi11iams literary magazine to The Purple which might appear monthly. ln this way the newspaper could be made to con- tain all of the news of the college and to place it before the student body before it had become ancient history. This is not possible under our present system of getting out a paper once a week, for tnost o£ the copy must be in the hands of the printer on Monday and all of it must be in by Tuesday night. Thus anything that happens on Tues- day night must be held over until the next issue and by that time all interest in such news has been lost. ~he Publication Board will soon be called upon to decide if the form o£ the Concordy is to remain the same or i£ it is to keep pace with the times and become a real live colle'ge newspaper devot ... ed entirely to college news. What would college life be without toot ... ball, baseball and basketball; without glee clubs, debating teams and the numerous other college activities not included in the college curriculum, but nevertheless in- dulged in and supported by the students? 'fhis is a reasonable question £or one to ask t:ow days, for it seems that these activities <.:re every year becorning more important to the American colleges. They furnish the attractions which bring the young men to the colleges and in large part aid the pros- pective student in his choice of a school, for the universities which have the best teams to represent them receive more space in the papers and in this way they are kept more in the eyes of the public than the other schools vvhich do not indulge in athletics to sd g-reat an extent. More than this these activi- ties lead to intercollegiate contests and \ . 1or1n a great sbmulus for college spirit. But on the other hand we find this outside work ( .... j ,·.,· ... 1 .I : . . '' ,• ·,··.t .··I I ·: ' ' . ~ . I I 1nte ofte the Jf01 J star any ttot me1 vvot Sin nf 1 opp sho oth legl of 1 tak the sur to 1 est wh the • t:te • ~n . gat scb i est gif '\'5 ... ~ ' fur fes me Bil c r11.c hu ne' gr;

( ,·.,· ... 1 ,I I ·: ' ' . ~ , I THB CONCORDIENSiS. 17 1nterfering with the work in classes and often the men who have been the heroes of the athletic teams are the men first to be 1ropped from school on account of scholastic standing. In theory there should not exist any such inter~ere.nce but in practice it can- ttot be denied that it is often found that the ' men are unable to keep up their college \¥ork and hold their place on the teams. Since colleges are primarily for the interest nf learning, nothing should be allowed to oppose this original intention. Scholarshi-p should, in every case, be placed above all other phases o£ student life, and n1ore col- lege presidents should take the same view of the situation as President Richmond has taken and the wholesale commercializing of the sport should be stopped. This we feel sure is the correct position and we are glad to know that our college has taken the high- est stand in the matter and every Union man whether or not he is personally affected by the eligibility rules, should be proud to rea1- i:te that whatever success we have attained ~ n any line o£ outside activities has been gained without the sacrifice or disregard of scholarship which is the first consideration. Again we are indebted to one of our warm- est friends, M. Melville Hanna '60 for a large gift which came in the form of a check for ~~5,000. This money is to be devoted to the fund now being raised to establish a pro- fessorship in History and Political science in memory o£ our illustrious alumnus, John Bigelow. As usual, Mr. Hanna gave this r11.oney in a most unostentatious manner, hut it also came at a time when it was 1nost needed. The college as a whole feels a deep gratitude to this generous benefactor, who during the past few years has done so much for us. It has even been suggested that we adopt a new adjective at U'nion, namely, the word \Hannaverian meaning generous . IN'TER-FRATERNITY C'ONFERENCE. At the Inter-fraternity Conference meeting of last week, it was decided to introduce in- to the freshman Bible of next year a fore- word to the members of the class of 1920. The article will endeavor to make the new- (:Omers familiar at once with the various forms of college etiquette. This innovation is expected to bring about the desired result of preventing the freshmen from putting then1selves and others in en1barrassing posi- tions. The Inter-fraternity Tennis T'ournament, '\vhich was interrupted last fall by cold \i\Teather, will be continued in the spring from rhe point at which it was left off. As the fastest matches are yet to be played, it is ex- pected that the interest will be renewed with the approach of the warm weather. THE CHI PSI CONVENTION. The first business session of the seventy- fifth annual convention of the Chi Psi frater- nity was held in the auditoriutn of the Schenectady County Historical Society building this morning. Delegates were pres- ent from all of the chapters and thus n1en from all parts of the country are brough~ together at Union. The business of th(· meeting will be disposed of by two session~· each day and the remainder of the tin1e wil: be devoted to the entertainn1ent of the guests. This will consist of a theatre part: tonight, a smoker and historical 1neeting a\t tne fraternity house to1norrow night and the convention banquet at the Ten Eyck 011 Saturday evening. A large attendance is ex- pected at this banquet as there are n1any alun1ni of the fraternity in this vicinity.

i' I. I: i \ i i \ I, f I 18 THE CONCORDIENSIS Q.ST AMATEUR RELAY MSG. Democracy requires that a people who (-rovern themselves should be so educated b h clnd disciplined that tlJ.ey can protect t · em- ::,elves. ( Si a-ned) Colonetl Richard Michal son. Th~ is the messag.e that was received at the coHege radio staiion at 1 :25 A. M. on Tuesday. The messa:ge which was sent by the United States aathorities fron1. Rock Island Arsenal to Davenport, Iowa, was re- layed by the America.n Radio Relay League from station to stati'()n to all states of the Union. A copy of the ·message received by designated stations was sent to the gover- nor of each state and to the mayor of each ;)f the different cities.. The rnessage was received in Schenectady by W. A. Brooks at the G. E. Works and telephoned to the operators at the college station who immediaiely sent it out for the ~enefit of all stations in this vicinity. An O.K. was relay~d back to Rock Island A..rsenal as soon as the message had been received in all quarters. The idea of the relay was to show that lhe radi() amateurs ()£ the country can send out a nation wide call for help from any part of the United States. Alpha Delta Phi entertained a number vf members of their An1herst chapter at a dinner and smoker at Glenn's after the g-ame. Wellesley College girls, according to the ineasurements taken in the Mwry Hemenway gymnasium, are le.a.ding contenders for honors as the most perfectly formed young \¥On1en in American colleges. The figures ior the lower half of the body, the hips and the legs, averaged fr()rn the measuretnents of more than 1,500 Wellesley girls, are altnost exactly those of the Venus di Milo. SIX MEN WIN PHI BETA KAPPA KEYS Union Seniors Initiated With Ceretl}on.y\ Many Members Present at Session. The initiation ceremonies of the New -york Alpha of Phi Beta Kappa were held in Silliman Hall at .Union College Saturday night at 8 o'clock. Six members of the sen- ior ·class of Union CoUege, candidates for the degree of batchelor of arts were elected to membership at the formal meeting Sat- urday afternoon at 3 o'clock. The initiates. are Lee Chase Fletcher of Gillett, Pa. ; \Nilliam C. Gunning of Freeport, Avrom M. Jacobs and Milton I-I. Sternfeld of Al- bany; Richard E. Taylor and James B. 'raylor of Greenville. Election to Phi Beta Kappa is the highest scholastic honor granted at any college to C'.rts course men. Membership in it is lin1- ited here to classical students of very high standing. 'rhis is the largest number of men who have been elected at Union in many years. Last year not a single senior 1iVas deemed worthy of the honor. Previous to this year the election has taken place at commencement, but it was thought best this year to follow the custom in vogue at other colleges and elect the men earlier in rhe course. In is understood this custom will be followed in the future. Dr. Alexander Duane, Union '78, presided 3t the initation. Dr. Duane gave at length the early history of the fraternity and the history of the founding of its earlier chap- rers. The society was founded at Williams and Mary's College in 1776 and has grown until it has chapters in all of the leading colleges of the country. The history of the Union Chapter, the Alpha of New York, was given by Prof. John I. Bennett. Phi Beta Kappa was establish- ed at Union in 1817 and was the fifth chap- ter of the fraternity and the first in New York state. It has initiated all of the other New York chapters. At first the Union .... ·· ''t ' ..... ;:::i ,. '' ~ ,: ; \ ~ ;< ',! ·• ·~ ' )t ,'\ ;. ', ' ~ I ' ·\ ·; :'· . \' (·hap er cl the metr nett be.rs Pt . stgn: of it the 'and num eral take: the , bora w ing 1 to SJ pros (n a stro1 1n fa will will gam thou tion the the~ Rill) cant whil battc eith( TheJ for·t gooc hrigJ Tl 111an hize1

.... ·· ''t · ..... ;:::i ,' ~ ' :· '' ~ ,: ; \ ~ ;< ',! ·• ·~ ' )t ,'\ ' ~ I ' ·\ ·; :'· . \' 1'HE CONCORDIENSIS. 19 (·hapter was slightly different from the oth- er chapters, but it is now much the same as the others, save that its conditions for membership are the most strict. Dr. Ben- nett also read the honor roll of noted mem- bers of the Union chapter. Professor John L. March explained the significance of the society and th~ meaning of its symbols i:o the initiates. Following the ceremonies, refreshments were served ·and a social time was enjoyed. A large number of members were present. In sev- eral past years the new n1embers have been taken in somewhat informally and this year the ceremonies were made much more ela- borate. BASEBALL PROSPECTS. With the basketball season rapidly draw- ing to a close, the young men's fancies turn to spring and we begin to wonder what the prospects for a winning baseball team are. (n all probability Union has never faced a stronger schedule and if we can make good 1n fast company it is very probable that we will be retained on the Tigers' program and will also have opportunities to book more games with the big colleges next year. Al- though we lost some good men by gradua- tion last year, there is some good material in the freshman class that will no -doubt fill the gaps in good shape. Rumor has it that Rilly May is out for the position left va- cant by the graduation of Captain Wood, while we have heard that Greene is a good battery performer and can work well at either end of the much travelled path. Then aside from these men we can look for the Albany departments to send us a few good men so our prospects seem very hright indeed. The follo-vving men are out for assistant :~anager: Brockway, Carey, Hoag-, H u1s- 11tzer, Schabehar and Talbot. VESPER SERVICE LIGHTLY AT- TENDED. The speaker at the vesper service on Sunday was the Rev. J. H. Murphy of Am- sterdam. He made the word ''Manliness\ the text of his talk and defined it by var- io~us examples. He said in part that it is one of the greatest needs of the present day and that everyone should ask themselves just what the term meant to then1. A man is not necessarily one who possesses great physical strength; neither is he always the good students or the bookworm. All who have great success in life cannot say that they possess this virtue, for many of our most successful men have attained success dishonestly. Nor can we call one who has a passive n1orality a man but the true type is reached in a combination of all of these traits. The person who is well developed n1entally, physically, socially and who has a definite idea as to what his duty in life is and then has the strength of character to go ahead and carry out his life plans is the man to whom we can justly give the name nf being a man in every sense of the word. T-Ie is the one who plays the ga1ne honestly, truthfully and fearlessly and his manliness consists of a strong heart, a capability for serious thought and the possession of a faith and a creed. Mr. Murphy concluded his talk by urging all college men, vvhom he states have the best opportunities, to always do their duty as they see it and then take the consequences in a square way. The ~.:1iscus5ion was very interesting but on ac- count of the sn1all attendance it \i\.ras g-iven more as an informal talk than as a lecture. The men in charge of the work of bringing these Sunday afternoon speakers to Union \vork hard to get tnen who will give interest- ing addresses and it reflects on the college ·\Vhen the attendance is small.

20 THE c·oNCORDIENSlS HANDS OF MINE. Hands of mine, so your:g and strong and brown, What promise lurks for good or ill \Vithin thy furrowed palms and suppie joints? Who are you, allies twain, God gave to work in perfect harmony With ear and eye and brain? Wh_at loving Fate was there, Who smiling on my soul incarn~\Ce yet, Said, uThou shaltst have abode more fair Than the hoofed brutes or beasts with sheathed claws Or e'en the feathery tribe that ride the air? 0 hands, why were ye ever thus so true to me, Who like a wilful tyrant bade ye do Full many a hard or useless deed? Ye humbly bowed before my baby will; . Or kitten small, or pain ted ark or food . Straight to my drooling mouth ye patient bore. rrhen when the strength of youth ifhe slower growing, wiser brain outstripped And for a time gained mastery, T'en thousand times ye saved 1ny gambled life; 'rhe reckless climb to rob the eagle's nest; l'he luscious fruit that hung far out above 'fhe quarry's rock-strewn, yawning, hungry pit; 'fhe grapple with the wounded n1ountain cat. ~rhen can1e another twain that n1.ine loved well rhe calloused ones frorn axe and plow and hoe ·Loved well the velvet touch of those white ' slender ones And oft for hours they clasped beside a sun- flecked brook. Then did the willing hand ag;ai n obey And when the brain said, \vVrite !\ The clumsy fingers clutched the sputtering pen And wrote the throbbings of a lover's heart, Then can1e the 1nighty war and now we wait ' My faithful hands and I, to take some broth- er's life. ,. Six months. they taught us every day fo use the r1fle, sword and bayonet And ye, my faithful friends, were quick to learn A.nd pron1pt to do the dictates of the brain and guiding eye. Last week we came by ship to Northern France .A.nd scarce were two hours landed When ye by cunning trick ye learned in northern woods Did check the frothing red and save the life Of some blonde Bache our French allies brought in But now 'tis dark, the eyes are closed in sleep, The other self invades the soldier's brain And turns him farmer, lover back in fair Quebec, But the brown hands all consciously un- consclous Fun1ble the mother's picture and the sweet- heart's In the rude locket on the hairy chest And clasp together when they find each other there A.nd call the heart, the soul, the wandering brain to prayer. R. E. T. Charles Barret, captain of last year's Cor- nell 'varsity football team and the greatest player in the football history of Cornell, has l)een dropped from the university because of poor scholarship. This is Barret's sentor year. Phi Ga1nn1a Delta held an inforn1al Wash- ington's birthday dance at the chapter house on Monday night. The chaperones were ~\1 rs. Carl and Mrs. Swick. ···: , . .. ,, ·\ !·'' 1 .: ; ~ 'i ' ~ Ralp Wet: Just In tl One Stra Mud Yes ' Stag Und Gua1 If hi Gua1 \Oh Gua: Snec Wh< ,, And r I w l ha And Eut And Anc Ont: To \ ~j 'f

'.,' • .. ,, i THE CONCORDIENSJS. 21 @{) WA]lf UNION COLLEGE ANTHOLOGY. II. Dutchy, the Tailor. Ralph Nite, the ColyumioSt, thought his life was monotonous! Well, I wish he could have tasted my existence for just one day- Just one day of sweating and baking his face In the steam from the irons and wet cloths; One day groping for the needle's eye with my unsteady fingers Straining hitS eyes in the half-light from the win- dows Muddied by the steam and dirt Yes, and then, instead of a warm supper and Proctor's, Staggering out into the wind and snow with his arm-joints creaking Under a stack of suits head-high, Guarding them jealously lest they be mussed If his foot slip on the ice and he fall and scatter them over the snow. Guarding them jealously, to be tnet with, \Oh Dutchy! Did you press 'em with your hands?\ Guarding them jealously just to see their' owners Sneak out the back door and down the -stairs he had just come up When he eased the suits, smooth and fresh, upon the bed And turned to ask his modest pay. I wish he could have tasted just one day of it! l had dream at first of a better day, a better shop, perhapoS, And a man to help. Eut the days crawled by as monotonously as the ticking of a clock And my ambition was dulled and stunted And died in the steam of the irons and damp cloths. One night, when I had delivered my last suit and needed n1y fifty cents To buy bread for supper, I caught the owner hiding behind his desk And coolly beat his brains out with his own desk lamp. I hung for it-happy·! ENTER, THE CHALLENGE. The Challt:~nge, that radical, unorthodox scamp of an intercollegiate paper, which promises its initial bursting forth on Washington's birthday, and which the deans of Columbia and Barnard promise to rai'5e a merry to-do over if it gets too wild, reminds us strongly of our dear, old !-Don't- Care Sheet, The Masses. The Challenge's pros- pectus frankly admits that it will make unstinted use of perfectly unconveittional opinions when it p!eaoSes. That the undertaking is one of consid- erable importance in the college world is made evident by the generous space given to it by Sat- urday's press in New York. How deliciously I'Jaughty it will be to have a college Masses to read! How delicious to be able to ga-sp at the daring tone of some attack or other on the cor- rupt, grafting, muck-raking methods of thie or that faculty; to look, half fearfully, at a bold, Y oungesque cartoon of some college treasurer or other, depicted horribly fat, with bloated, greasy f:J.ce, whirling a cow-hide about his head a~ shuddering, emaciated college boys stagger up and deposit at his feet great bags, each duly labelled with the dollar sign! It will be great pseudo-innocent fun for the collegers who would t ead something of the risque-and its evidently going to be riskay to have a copy about one's person. Bring on this Eva Tanguay journal, but take care that it has not too tangy a way about it, lest Mr. Donald Stern, editor, find hi-s next as- signment at the School of Journalism an ejection slip, and Miss Eleanor Parker, business Jll4n- ager, go sailing off the Barnard campus very pre- cipitously. Columbia and Barnard faculties have declared neutrality only awaiting an isoSue. Speaking of collegers who would read something of the risque, we did hear of one once who was l·ored and went to sleep when a story showed signs of riskayness. But then, he was renownedly queer, and the squirrels followed him about. He lmd an unhappy end, they tell us. His family arose one morning to find him perched on the base-board of his bed, flapping his arms up and down like wings and muttering, \I'm a little birdie, I'm a little birdie!\ They shipped him off to Vtica, and he occupied the cell adjoining that which Ralph Nite) the Colyun1ni-st. used for so many years.

I ' ! ' I . i , I ' i ' I I I . I I I ! : I I I I . I . I I ( I , i I I I '' I. ' '' l I 22 l'HE :CUNCORDIENSIS SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. The year 1916 is a Shake•sperean anniversary- stealing a furtive glance into faithful old New- ~omber & Andrews, we discover it to be the 3'()0th l' ear since his <Ieath. It's interesting to watch. the Shapesperean tidal-wave that has broken ()Ver New York and is now coursing head-long over the provinces. Grand opera pro.misetS to come out shortly with a Shakesperean opera or tw(), a very noteworthy event indeed. An unusually wide repertoire of the master dramatist's plays are to sbortly invade Broadway under the hand of var- i JUS companies and will vie as never before with the indispen-sible Sybils and Very Good Eddies. \Ve read lately that a daring band of Harvard collegers have hired one New York house out- .. right and are bearing down en masse to try a hand at Henry IV just like regular actor peo~le. A 1 ather sub-rosa poetic chord has been struck 1n the field of the press. The Times, ferinstunce, ithamelessly breaks its staid bonds and blats 'long a:1d loud about its wonderful Shakespeare Sunday ·-supplements to co1ne, orderyourcopynow. Swells h·om the tidal-wave are washing over the prov- inces. Education commissioners, we read, are instilling special courses into the >SChools of the -larger cities. We suppose the boys in the little red school houses ar_e stuttering through To-Be- or-Not-to-Be as they never have before. Thr<>ugh the college exchanges, comeos the intelligence that .. a number of the university dramatic societies are launching into Shakespeare. Could it be just possible, you wonder, that this wave might stir np our sedimental society? No chance, we predict, uo chance. * * * * * Well, well, we won't push things too ostrongly in tnis case. Perhaps we had best let them sleep on 11ntil this thing is over. Jake Gauger as Juliet! ~hades of Charlie Chaplin! * * * * * Now and then everyone, we suppose, has -some i:1significant little experience or some trivial sen- sation which opens up in the 1nemory whole vistas of childhood remembrances that supposedly were ciead and gone long ago. The smell of the hay from a paossing hay-wagon n1akes some people-we are not included-dream long and blissfully of the old swimming hole and the revered wood-shed 11ear where th.e willow switches grew. Not long a~o, while a-wander in Jay Street, we catne face tn face with a blatant poster of \The Famous Ch~cago Stock Co.,\ and instantly there tlJmbled head over heels into our minds a troop of recol lcctions, in all of which we figured as a ruthle.ss ~kipper from grammar school for the purpose f watching worshipfuUy fro1tl the second balcony cne Miss Clarabe.i.le Prae in the act of n1aking love. Filled with high hopes of a tremendously pleas- ant afternoon, we hast1ly bought tickets, and .goon a.tter were very sorry indeed that we had. You '\YOUldn't know the old stock now! True, Clara- belle is still there, Hvely, vivacious as ever, hut oh! what a companyl Notanother old face remains, The company has cataJJu:tted from a place well out in the sun to a ho:Peloessly low niche in the Pit of Oblivion. Poor, :POOr Clarabelle! * lfc: * * * Great heavens! The Mudhawk burleycue it!. worse than the Van'st * * * * * \Very Good Eddie\' is no longer the favorite child of the Marbury-Comstocks. It is now strong and husky and w,ell able to take care of it .. ~elf and the darling of the family is \See America First.\ Like its big brother, \See America First,\ will be chritStian. ed in the Van, preferring, probably, to get On Your Way's approval before venturing out upon the cold New York world. 1\'ot having seen the production as yet-the writer's frat was invited to attend dress rehearsal en masse, and was invited to go far away when ap- pearance was made at the box office-not having seen it, we repeat, we can only .gay that \See America First\ is liable to be successful whether it deserves it or not for the simple reason that the Marbury-Comstocks know well how to put things over. If this, their new child, doetSn't please them, they will sciu.puslously put off his debut on Broadway, dress him up in such different clothes that he'd never be known, and presto! he is a hit. So fared \Very Good Eddie.\ And so will fare \See America Firost,\ for it is filtering in to us that there are weak spots sprinkled about in different places. Porter and Briggs are un_, kno·wn quantities as coruposers, but they need but follow the trail they started upon in ·writing Estner- alda for \Hands Up\' and Mlle. Bordoni's song· in \Miss Information'' to come out well on the top of the heap. The cast has nothing important to Dffer--nothing nearly as imposing as that which Digre-ssed the Dean in European history: \It was the saying in An1erica, you known, that the Hessians couldn't hit the broad-side of a barn v·hert they were inside of it.\ Lew~s's stupend- our itnagination bubbled over at that and, \Well l:e broke out hopefuH~, \Maybe the door was openl 11 ! i ',, \ '\• •, '\ '-' -,- , \Ver ially Dorc 111 th thjn~ havir of th t~1ing ally prod ange Tb two Ol la n10ll4 poss: out. line nuss para: has has l Ad kow- can 1 beau· gage othe1 ply ] lide ac-t ( \Vher: of a gnp I= the t occu: . IS te Vv'OUl lO a Chuc Kno< and

! i :··· '\ '-' '( 'TH'E CONCORDIENSIS. \Very Good Eddie\ set sail under. We are ·espec- ially interested, of course, in the pre-sence of Dorothy Bigelow, daughter of our own Poultney, in the leading female role. She hasn't done any- thjng to wonder at as yet, but she is rumored as having a very fair soprano voice. The remainder of the cast shows no promise of getting over any- t~1ing startling. Benrimo, by the way, is perrson- ally instilling some of his w. k. speed into the production and this is one thing, at least, that angers well for its future. CABALA IN PSI UPSILON. They were sober, respectable collegers, these two Psi U's, but it had become whispered about oi late that they had been spending much n1ore n1oney than their modest hon1e aUowances could possibly stand. Early last week the secret broke out. They had been leading a double life! A head- line in The Gazette ran: Patrolman DuBoitS Dis- nlissed From Local Force. And a concluding paragraph in the story cotnmenced: Captain X- has also announced that Patrollnan McCauley has been placed on probation for neglect of duties. AS CONTRASTED WITH FLORIDA. It's colder than blazes in Dorp today, But it's colder, they say, in Scotia. No doubt it's still colder in Alaska- I'M cold enough here in Schenectady! Advertising, say we; is a great old game. We kow-tow most humbly to the descriptive pen who can P~int the picture of, say, a snappy suiting so beautifully that we are seriously rnoved to mort- gage our watch to get one. We happened the other day upon an undertaker's ad. that was sim- P!Y i.rresistible. Overcome with the craving to ltde 1n one of his princely coffins, we were in the aC't of knocking our head against the radiator \Vhen our eye caught upon the overpowering lines of. a .laundry ad. and we forgot all in the soul- gnpptng desire to get our contribtl tion in before the tubs were overcrowded with ti val shirts. It ?ccurs. to us that the college ad. in the Conconly 15 ternbly dull and sans appeal. How the frotSh v;ould clutter u tl . P 1e campus next year tn response 1 o a shot like this: HEY! PREP SCHOOL LADDIE-BOY Chuck Cran1-Full that Bl d J' p· esse trruny- 1pe and Drean1 o' H D . appy ays A-Con11ng! K , . . . lJNION ndocTks the Ltvtng Daylight-s Out o' Care and Woe an rouble S 1 I ' G . · ay · t s ot that G11np and Go '1nd Get-There LivelineoSs! I'm not a-arguing with you, Philbert-·· I'm just a-telling you. There's something about it just plain makes your soul bubble over w1th sunny comfort-gets those L1side works of your's and gives them that perky~ chesty feeling, like a high-brow trotting down the avenue. The Hole-In-The-Wall With The Toppy Red College-Color. Frank Coe Barnes, Secretary. And then again, perhaps they had all broken their barnacle'S. And why, while in the mood, wouldn't the Con- cordy's subscription list assume tremendous pro- l'ortions in response to this appeal a la Cosmopoli- tan: WHAT WOULD YOU DO? If your only ren1embrance of that fatal night ·was the haunting vision of a giant hand on your bare white -shoulder? Mad Mary, drunkard, sec- oad-story woman, pursuer of Harold McNabb, the ltttle freshman,-is dead. Harold's revolver ac- cusatorily empty of chamber, lies beside her. 'The S_tate says Harold MeN abb killed Mad Mary. Did Harold end his persecutions by killing her? The jury is convinced! Harold him.gelf does not know. He cannot remember. He cannot tell. Guilty? Dead? This soul-wrenching, nerve-tearing mys- tery romance commences at once in THE CONCORDIENSIS. Price Ten Cents. ++++++++++++++++++++++ + Clip This Co~pon. + ~:... Concordy, Schenectady. Gentlemen: For + •!+ the enclosed $1 send me the free trial sub- + +I-- scription, and also, absolutely free, twenty + .. :. (20) lithographed postcards of great act- + +!<~- reoSses, old and new. •1+ •} Name ....t. ------------------------------------- ~ + i\ddress ------------------------------ + +++++++++++++++++++~++ THE INEBRIATE'S: PARAGRAPH. Take care, ye topers, lest some day the stick in your punch be made of wood alcohol! MIXED METAPHOR. \Two seats in the orchestra!\ fauxpas-ed a freshman at the gym box office before a recent game. Not a doubt, he thought he was attending a bas- 1< et ballet. NITE.

li li I I: I I I, f I: I I I, I. l l: I: I, i I I t l; I, ! ! 24 THE CONCORDIENSIS KAPPA BETA PHI REORGANIZES. James Minahan and \Pete'' Ingham have t eorganized the Union chapter of Kappa Beta Phi which has been dormant for three years. The new members are Brunet, Churchill, Edgerton, Gilbert and Costello. On Saturday afternoon the Chi Psi con- \\ention will be entertained at an inter- fraternity smoker at the Delta Upsilon House from 4 :30 until 6 :30. This is one of the many new ideas that originated in the =iertite brains of Meade Brunet a.nd his inter- £raternity conference and it is intended that by these smokers and other entertainments which are planned for the near future, the various fraternities will be drawn closer to- gether and thus a more friendly feeling pro- moted. SIGMA XI ELECTS. At the recent meeting of the society of Sigma Xi, Wynne, Flam, and Dr. Kleeman were chosen as members. This mid-win- ter election is a departure from the usual custom but in this case the choices are made on exceptional merit and at the spring meeting the retnainder of the men will be chosen. As there are many sharks in the senior class it is very probable that at least six more will be chosen later. The inter-fraternity Council has under consideration the formation of an inter- fraternity bowling league. This sport seems to have taken a strong hold on the college this year and it is thought that a great deal of interest would be taken in the matter. The present plan is to have a cup for the winning team and to give a medal to the captain of each team in the league. The manager of the Star Alleys has had some correspondence with President Brunet and will also offer a cup or will send a team to play one from R. P. I. if a match can be ~.rranged. DE SOUSA ADDRESSES THE COSMO- POLITAN CLUB. At a regular meeting of the Cosmnpolitan Club held in the club rooms in South Col- lege on February 15th, De Sousa '16 gave an illustrated lecture on South America. He showed that some of the South American countries are surprisingly large and cited as an example that Brazil is larger than the United States. He also discussed the tem- perature of the cities of his country and said that the temperature of Rio J aniero and Sao Paolo never was more than 95 degrees in spite of the fact that both lie very close to the equator. Afterward he conducted the club on an imaginary tour through the coffee regions and illustrated various phases 1n the production of Brazil's principal pro- duct. After the meeting re£reshments were served and the members were treated to real B razillian coffee; On Tuesday morning the Alpha Delta Phi bowling team defeated Phi Gamma Delta in a match rolled at the Star alleys. The contest was not decided until the last ball was 'rolled as the Phi Gams won the tirst, the Alpha Delts the second and then the latter team annexed the third game by a scant margin of three pins. As a result of the match the two teams will dine at Glenn's on next Tuesday night, the losers being the hosts. The teams were composed of the following men: Alpha Delta Phi-Per- sons, Patterson, Palmer, Law Bowman and :!\1oora; Phi Gamma Delta-Jones, Baird, Loughlin, Galbraith and Osterhout. There 'vere three two hundred games rolled, nan1e- 1y, Patterson 21 \' Palmer 208, and Galbraith ;!15. At a meeting of the Chemical Society T\1onday evening, the following 1nen were taken into membe.rship :Morrison '17, W al- ,' .lace '1 7, and Stevens '17. :! , I ! ., '; - B 1 Pl

i ' , . :! 'I ! ., . ; JOIN OUR CLUB AND OWN A BICYCLE on our easy payment plan, $1 down and $1 a week, and take your choice of the following High Grade Wheels: New England, lver-Johnson, American, Pope Motor Bike By j()ining now you secure a discount ot 5, 7 or 10 percent. Let us give you particulars. Bu . R• . K.· E, 230 So Cen· tre St Sol: Agent Excelsior and Henderson • ' Mo,orcydes. 'Phone 2634. ----------------------·-- ·---------- ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 lYlO WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1407 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE. '17 CoUeito Repretent:ati,.e NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie~ insure our patrons the broadest, n1ost ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ /.• a~RROW COLLAR Shows over the coat in back ; low sharp~ smart curveaway fi,ont; good knot and slide space ~for25c CLUE1'T, PEABODY & CO., h1c., l'daliers. TROY. N. Y t_ llo# H Ill. CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- 'Nays an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. \Ve clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. \Ve call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909-J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

I : If you are a 1·eal genius, keep it to yours~lt If you are a real eighteen carat article Folks will find out about you, and You will get your reward. A College Man's Store of the \Square Deal Sort'' We have an ideal of what a college man's clothing store ought to be, and we try to live up to it-to do by you as vve would have you do by us. Good storekeeping is something more than expending our energy in trying to catch the nimble dollars and cents. \\Vhen you decide to buy here, we on our part resolve that your purchase shall please you so completely that you think of this store first when you wish to buy again. ·you are to feel that we have acted honorably toward you, and have been truly helpful in value and service. You are to feel that this is a college man's store of the \square deal.,. Exclusive Models-Exclusive Fabrics. Created By Us-For You. SUITS OVERCOATS S I 0 trc1 $30 $1 0 frc) $30 YOUR HOLIDAY FIAT-A DERBY \The Store of Today-Four Hours From Broadway.\ HTD 455 STATE STREET Schenectady ~ Art Preis ·,·.,·:

