e CONCORD IE VOLUME 39 APRIL 6, 1916 NO. zo I PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE L:::::::==:::!JII STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY l::: : 7 ===·: ::: SIS

CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., lLe D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college ofters the following undergraduate and graduate courses : l. Veur•e• leading to the degree of A.. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- c1ttded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B-This course may be pur- sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. S. Vonr•e leading to the degree ot Pbe B. LA'l'IN-ScntNTIFrc CouRsn- This course offers ~a..tin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of. B. 8. ScxnNTIIIIC CouRslt- This course is based upon the atu.dy of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leadJng to the degree ot B. E. 6~tN~RAL ENGINE:ERING Cou:asit~This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, camprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and medern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRs:tt-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special werk in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. EL~CTRICA~ ENGINEERING CouRsE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instntction requisite for electrical engineering. B. Conr•e• lea•tng to graduate degrees. CouRSE ~EADING TO DEGREE oJ? M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRs~ LEADING TO DEGRP:lt oog M.S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING To DEGRJ£E 011 Pu. D.- This coursf of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other in formation address F. C. BARNas, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. ·L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ---. ALBANY MEDICAL . C<?LLEGE, Founded 183~A complete reorgantzatlo~ has been effected dunng the past year. Largely 1ncrea sed Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate responsibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to .conform to improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each canclidate for ad- mission must pre·sent his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New Y ()r1( and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a. recogniz~d colle~e or scien- tific school, of physics, chemtstry, btology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition i.s $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There a.re no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. . ·The academic year begins Sept. 27., 1915. All tn· quiries and other communications should be ad- dressed to THOMAS 0RDWA Y, M. D., Dean., Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the st~te capitol. It occupies a building whotty devoted to t~s use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. ts three years ; each year is. divided into two ~~mesters. Expenses: Matriculatton fee, $to; tuttiOn fee, $xxo. For catalog·ue or other informati<>n, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Secretary, Albany. N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHAR1.1ACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of sevetl months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. . For catalogue giving full information, address: ALFRED B. H UESTF.D, Secretarj', 43 Eagle St., Alba.ny, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 2 5o. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shqp Just Across from the Greera Gate = vo = UN W; ] ctlu . 111. 97 18i . lll un . lll sh4 it 15. ffi( . lU( se1 ho ,\~ ur ;·! of . ~ ~ yc cl; of ar

1.ces nn- any ad- of or- . tn· ad- of its . is The Concordiensis VOL. 39 APRIL 6, 1916 NO. 20 UNION'S OLDEST ALUMNUSJ EX-SENATORS. K. WILLIAMS, DIES AT HOME IN NEWARK. Entering College at Age of 15, He Won Many Honors. GRADUATED IN 1837. Was Recently Spoken of Editorially in N. Y. Times as Oldest Living College Graduate. Ron. Stephen Keys Williams, the oldest cllun1nus of Union College, died in his home in Newark, N~ Y., last Wednesday, aged 97 years. He was graduated from Union in. 1837 at the age of 19. He had been engaged in the practice of law from his college days until stricken with the illness which resulted in his death. Throughout his life he had shown intense interest in Union and served it as a trustee for many years. Mr. Williams entered Union at the age of 15. He applied for admission to the sopho- more class and despite his youth an exam- ination showed him to be fitted to enter upon second year work. The rules of the college, however, prohibited the entrance of a pupil under 16 in even the first year class. Because of the remarkable aptit1:1de he had shown young Willian1s was taken into the freshman class on \six months' probation\ at the end of which time he had passed the age lim'i t and became a freshman in full standing. Dr. Eliphalet N ott was then president. Williams stood at the head of his class, was elected into the Phi Beta Kappa honorary society and was chosen to deliver an oration at com- mencement. Union later conferred on him the honorary degree of LL. D. Many men famous in public life were warm personal friends of Mr. Williams . Among them, besides Seward, were Thur- low Weed and Governors Seymour and Fen- ton. Perhaps the last public tnention of M·r. Williams was made February 28, when the New York Times in an eulogistic editorial hailed him as the oldest of America's living college graduates. CHEMISTRY DEPT. MUSEUM NOW CONTAINS \MODERN MAGIC\ The Department of Chemistry has recent- ly added to its museum, exhibits frotn the Corning Glass Works and the General Bake- lite Con1pany. The glass company has sent beakers, baking dishes, flasks, viols, ther- monleter tubing, lantern globes, green and ruby glass, etc. Bakelite is \Oxybenzyl- n1ethlylenglycolanhydride\ or \Modern 1VIagic.\ Its use is in high voltage insula- tions, ornaments, pipe stems, lacquers, etc.

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. INTER-FRAT. B~OWLING LEAGUE Twelve Highest Men. DRAWING TO A CLOSE C. F. Brown--------------------------- 190 Galbraith Chi Psi's Head Old League; Alpha Delt's and Lambda Chi Alpha's Tied In New. C. F. BROWN HIGH MAN. Phi Gams Hold High Team Single Game Score With 881; Also High 3-Game Score with 2476. The first seas·on of the Inter-Fraternity Bowling League is rapidly nearing its end after a most interesting contest for the cup. The year has brought out some high class bowling, and the work of several men has been of high grade throughout. C. F. Brown holds the record for the high single game with 246, and the high three games with 625. 'The Phi Gamma Delta team holds the high team score for single game with 881 and the high three games total with 24'(6. In the old league Chi Psi leads with eleven games won and one lost, while Lambda Chi Alpha and Alpha Delta Phi are tied for first place in the new league with eight won and one lost. Foster Brown leads the individual list with an average of 190. LEAGUE STANDINGS. Old League. w. Chi Psi ---------------- 11 Psi Upsilon ------------ 11 l(appa Alpha ---------- 10 Delta Phi -------------- 4 Sigma Phi ________ _._ .... _____ 2 Delta Upsilon ---------- 1 New League. w. L. 1 ·i 5 11 10 8 L. 1 1 Patterson --------------------------- 186 -- --·--- -------------- -·---- 177 Beckett ------------~---------------- 173 Dunkelberger ---------------·-------- H ·b au. ner --------·-----·-------------- Loughlin --------------------------- 1-Iuoper ------- .... -------------------- Stephens ... ~------~-----------------­ Rosekkrans ------------------------ 173 164 159 156 156 155 J~ldred --------------·-------------- 155 .Baird ---------------------·-------- 155 U.S. MILITARY TACTICS ARE DEMONSTRATED ON GYM FLOOR Capt. J. S. Button, of Co. F, Reviews Drills At Physical Directors' Me·eting. A meeting of the Physical Directors' As· sociation of this section was held in the gymnasium on the morning of March 24th. This association includes the Y. M. C. A.'s of the surrounding cities, the Y. W. C. A.'s, R. P. I., Albany Normal, and Union. A feature of the meeting was the demonstra- tion of U. S. military tactics, which was composed principally of drilling, and which was reviewed by Capt. J. Scott Button, of Company F, Schenectady. This phase of the work was adopted at the last preceding meeting, and especial attention will be given to it in the future. 10:00 A. Ms-Diagnosis of Nose and Throat Ailments, Dr. M. S. Lord, Schenec- tady. 10 :30 A. M.-Colon Hygiene, Dr. S. A. McComber, Union College. 11 :00 A. M.-U. S. Military Tactics, Capt. J. Scott Button, Co. F. 11 :30 A. M.-Dance, Miss C. Eastman, Y. W. C. A., Albany. Lambda Chi Alpha ----- 8 Alpha Delta Phi -------- 8 Phi Gamma Delta ------ '( Pyramid ---------------- 3 Beta Theta Pi ----------- 2 Phi Delta Theta --------- 2 2 12 :00 M.-Dumb-bell drill, L. S. Hill, Al- 9 bany Public Schools. 7 12 :30 P. M.-Dance, Miss R. Slocum, Al- 10 bany Public Schools. ! ~ ) I ·' l ~ ~ ~ t ~ ~ l ~ .) r. ' i t ·~ _i I l 1 :I f j ., l t '{ \.1 >·!! J A] u: \( ce of a11 . Sll pr w. fn of al: a: ac te s~ u . lll al cc . 111 pl T P< e< A S( K w t( w G N s

190 186 177 173 173 164 159 156 156 155 155 155 rills As- the ith. (\,'s ' ~. s, A tra- ;vas .ich . of of tng ren md ec- A. pt. Y. \1- ., j - _, THE 'CONC·ORDIENSIS. 11 AMliERST-UNION CONCERT AND INFORMAL DANCE PROVIDE JOYOUS EVENING. Musicians Vie On Stage and Dancing Floor. UNION'S FIRST JOINT CON·CERT. \Combination'' With Amherst Most Agree- able to Union Men. Last week's biggest event was the con- cert given in the gymnasium on the evening of Wednesday, March 29, by the Amherst and Union Musical Clubs. Not only was the singing and playing excellent and much ap- preciated by an unusually la:rge audience which filled the lower floor, but the dance from about eleven to one o'clock was one of the best events of the college year. From absolutely every standpoint the evening was a success and a suitable ending for the year's activities of our musical clubs. Before saying more of the evening's en- tertainment, it should be mentioned that the spirit of cordiallity between Amherst and Union, which has developed especially with- in the last few years, was pa·rticularly notice- able. We are glad that such a joint concert could be arranged, for in Amherst we recog- nize a body cherishing the same ideals as are prevalent here. No part of the program was tiresome. The Amherst and Union Glee Clubs accom- panied by the Amherst 11andolin Club start- ed the evening by singing \ Lord J ef£rey Amherst,\ one of the most popular college songs in the country. Subsequently \The I<anavagh\ and \Annie Laurie,\ together with many encores, the most enthusiastically received of which was \Old Man Noah \ ' were given by the Amherst Glee Club. Our Glee Club on the other hand sang \Go 'Long Mule, Go 'Long\ and \A Song of Winter.\ Shelly Moora's vocal solos \Who l(nows\ ' ' \Son1.ewhere a Voice is Calling,\ and ''Au£ ·wiedershen\ were extremely popular, as V\ 7 ere those piano solos rendered by Harold Cook. Popular selections and \Aloha Oe,\ but especially the former, showed the visit- ing Mandolin Club to be very good indeed, and the HBohemian Girl\ selection, as well as \Sing Ling Ting,\ proved that our Man- dolin Club was at its best. But by no w.eans may we omit the Union Banjo Club, which played Ken- Tuc- Kee. The finale was lJnion's Alma Mater, by both Glee Clubs. One important event was nearly forgotten. The usual old black Steinway piano was used. The ufifty cents a man\ dance after the- concert reminded us all of Junior Week for, since then, we have had no such college fttnction. The floor was full, but not crowd- ed; the music, by Pantin, was most success- ful. A few people went before 1:15 a. m., but upon inquiry we learn that it was done only because of absolute necessity. WILLIAMS TO LEAD SINGERS; DOWNS MANDOLIN CLUB HEAD \ Two Leaders Of Next Year's Clubs Bound to Be Successful. After the year's last rehearsal on March 27, Hoosier J. Williams, Lambda Chi Alpha, was elected to succeed Harold B. Gardner as leader of the Glee Club. Bill Wi1lian1.s has been very prominent in this organization as a hard worker for three years and as a 1nember of the double quartet. It is perfect- ly safe, therefore, to predict a most success- ful season next year for Union's \singers\ under his leadership. The new mandolin club leader, who was elected after the Amherst-Union concert on March 29, is Philip W. Downs, Chi Psi. Since \Windy\ is popular, a good leader, and an expert with his mandolin everyone re- gards him as a very suitable one to succeed Arnold Hooper as chief \head shaker.\

12 THE CONCORDIE.NSIS. PRESS CLUB DINNER AND DRAMATICS DEBUT MOST NOTABLE EVENT. L,arge Number in Attendance- Actors· Cheered to Echo in Initial Appearance. A UNION HOUSE-WARMING. Charley Waldron Ideal Toastmaster-Dr. Richmond, Fred Dawson and Doc Mac Among Speakers. At the Athletic diner given last Tuesday evening in the gym under the auspices of the Press Club, about 175 diners including alumni, faculty and students, ate the dinner served by Barney's, heard from Dr. Rich- mond that .Union is no place for the com- mercial athlete and that college students loaf too much, from Fred Dawson what athletics does for a fellow, from Doc Mac that not enough fellows are availing themselves of the facilities of the gym. He would like to see sophomores and uper classmen coming out and entering the freshmen gym classes for the sake of the exercise. In this connection he commended the In .. ter-fraterni ty Conference for organizing bowling and tennis tournaments and sug .. gested that they also arrange a series of in .. ter-£raternity baseball games and complete the tennis tournament started last fall. He also said that he hoped to see t soccer foot .. ball team started next fall. Fred Dawson was next presented and re .. ceived his usual enthusiastic reception from the students. He took for his subject doing one's best in athletics. To do your best involves three things, condition, grit, and stick-to-itiveness. Athletics cultivate these three things and they are the things an athlete gains from his experience on the field. enough fellows exercise in the gym, and that D'r. Richmond was the last speaker. After he wants to see a soccer football team next introductory remarks in a humorous vein fall, and finally, heard three productions he spoke on the danger of commercialism in presented by the D1ramatic Club, one vaude- college athletics. The man who goes to a ville, another farcial, and the third musical. college to receive some money return for his Charley Waldron was toastmaster, and athletic ability he declared to be a danger first introduced Mr. C. Vernon Travis, 0 ~ to society, for he would not only be a trait- the class o£ 1911, who was captain of tracf< or to his colege but he would be a traitor and president of his class. Mr. Travis spoke to his count,ry, if the opportunity was pre~ briefly on Union's stand against the pro- sented. To illustrate the prevalence of this fessionaJ spi,rit in athletics and expressed evil he told of letters he had received from the satisfaction of the alumni in the work of sub-freshn1en of athletic ability in which the teams but said that the alumni noticed a they told what other colleges had offered lack of team work displayed by the players. them and inquired what he would give thetn. Mr. Travis was followed by Dr. McCom- A man should come to colege not with the her, who spoke in his usual emphatic and question \What is there in it for me?\ but hearty manner. He declared that we had \What can I contribute?\ and when he leaves as good teams this year as we had the two college pe should have something to give, not preceding years. We could not expect al- something to sell. ways to have a team which would win all or Speaking of preparedness Dr. Richmond all but one of the games played. Defeat once reiterated his well known views on military in a while is a good thing. Passing from this drill in colleges and declared that college subject Dr. McComber said a few words men should spend the time they loaf in keep- on athletic t~raining and bodily fitness. Not ing in good physical condition. The college coul< then: ion 1 men ciety Fe Clul:: set t mer dian ente thte dial< T: by Lor· tic ( in t the Gir] . 1ne, Vo( ed wit an pre 1 ent Yo1 dol . VOl Af1 die· No Vi1 thf: pa: . lU ph Rc eli D(

of to . tng In .. . tng . tn .. ete He .. re .. ng nd an he • . 111 a . er e~ • lS y THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 could not expect rich men to contribute to then1, nor the state to grant them exemp .. ion fron1 taxation u,nless they turned out men prepared to furnish son~ething to so- ciety in return. Following the speeches the Dramatic Club presented three numbers upon a stag,e set up at the north end of the gym. Zim- mer and Downs disguised as negro come- dians were the first on the program and entertained the audience vvith comicalities of thte negroed type, consisting of songs and dialogue. The second number was a one act farce by Percival vVilde, entitled, \The Noble Lord.\ As the maiden effort of the Drama- tic Club it was ,,decidedly a success. Talbot in the title role showed an appreciation of the subtelties of hi's part. Santee as \The Girl,\ acted with a manner entirely femin- ine, and Bernadotee Lester, as \Peters the Voert,\ though his part was brief, display- ed genuine dramtic zest. All three acted with a naturalness and spoke their lines with an understanding which gives favorable presage of maturer efforts . The entertainment ended with what was entitled a novelty act by Beckett and Younie, the first playing on the banjo-man- dolin and the second on the ukulele, and the voices of both blending in sweet, sweet song. After the strains of their last ensore had died away the company dispersed. * * * The rifle teams of Washington State, Norwich, Michigan Agricultural and West Virginia made perfect scores of 1,000 during the past week. * * * The Fordham Rowing Association is pre- paring to enter its Junior and prep crews in the American Henley, held at Philadel- phia on May 3. By a ruling of the Harlem Rowing Association, the Fordham boats are eligible for the Harlem River regatta on Decoration Day. ~4._•l++-+++·:<4-+++++++++t•++++ • • STUDENT MEETING MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1916. • + + . ................... . This meeting was, although a short one, interesting and important . \Gene\ Humrne1r spoke on baseball and urged that all men out for that sport should report regularly. Indoor practice, he declar- ed, has been successful, since it has whipped the players into good shape for outdoor train- . tng . Nat Finch, as secretary of the Terrace Council, proposed the following resolution: Resolved, That it be the sense of the Student Body that the question of the eligi- bility of freshmen to take part in under- graduate activities should be referred to the Student Activities Committee with power . The motion being seconded, \Fos\ Brown explained that it applied not only to ath- letics but to every form of activities. Pro- fessor Opdyke, chairman, Professor Garris, and Dean Ripton are the proposed commit- tee for judging each freshn1an. The motion was carried . A second motion proposed by \Nat\ was: Resolved, That a notice of all elections in undergraduate activities be posted on the bulletin board three days before the elec- tion shall take place, otherwise the election shall not be valid. The motion was laid on the table. Carroll Gunning, as leader, announced that the band was to begin work immed- iately in preparation for the baseball season. The plans for the Athletic Dinner under the auspices of the Press Club were given out by \Pud\ Hauenstein. The price, 85 cents ; the place, the gym; the time, Tues- day at 6 :30 P. M.; and the elaborate enter- tainment, were the topics of his talk.

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Pu:bli'5hed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., a'S Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Ralph Knight------------ Psi Upsilon Hou~Se MANAGING EDITOR. Fawcett W. Porter '17 ---------- Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR. Williatn C. Loughlin '17, Phi Gamma Delta House LITERARY EDITOR David F. Chapman '17 --------- Delta Phi House ASST. LITERARY EDITOR Rudolph W. Schwartz '17 ---- 37 Glenwood Blvd ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. G. Carey, Jr., '18 E. L. Newell '18 F. G. Bascom '18 S W. Talbot '18 H. L. Cook '18 REPORTORIAL STAFF. H. H.: Newton '19 Adam Bailey '19 G D. Rosenthal '19 W. R. Barnett '19 C. A. Brind, Jr., '19 A. B. Dougal '19 E. ]. Griswold '19 K. H. Gorham '19 V. H. Scales '19 Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscriptton: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. In the last college bulletin we ran across a re- port which states that the book store has come out with a clear profit of something over one thousand ddllars thios year. Naturally, we like to see the treasury reports amount well up on the right side of the ledger, for money talks in the running of a college just as vehemently as it does in anything else, but one cannot look upon this itetn in the bulletin with the slighte'5t degree of approval. This is the book store, mind you, which burst forth not n1any years ago in the role of the needy student's friend-burst forth with the admirable intention of distributing supplies practically at cost and of depo'5iting what little profits accrued-if there were any-to the bud- get of whatever department the profitable goods would naturally be sold to. We don't know whether this thousand dollars will be distributed according to this schetne or not, and we don't care. It filters away some where or other in the stream of college expenditures, undoubtedly made to quiet a very needy want here or there. And sin1ultaneously it takes along with it a dollar, or two, or three from the pocket of many a student who ne.eds it far more than does the coHege. Barring miracles, it will be a long day before we are rated as a rich college and it will be just as long a day before half the students of this college will glide up to the chapel door in lim<Ousines and fur coats. There are decidedly more men here than you might estimate at first thought who would spend those extra dollars toward better board or, perhaps, more books, rather than t,oss it away upon cigarettes or theatre tickets. One would think that the col~ lege, a'S embodied in the treasury department, would be a little more open handed to its old friend, the student. Once upon a time there was a man who had for many years been buying groceries at the store of his brother because his brother had said he would sell them to him at co'5t. One day this man discovered that his brother had in reality been charging him full price all the time, and he became hot under the collar and went and traded elsewhere just for spite. * * * * * The Terrace Council has resolved that: It is the sense of the Student Body that the question of eligibility of freshmen to take part in under- graduate activities should be referred to the Student Activities Committee of the faculty. The resolution was passed in student meeting Monday. We may hail this as the most notable action of the 1916 council-perhaps the most not~ able of the councils in undergraduate memory. It comes as an out-shoot of the late rumpus over the tentative one semester athletic rule-which fomentation, we think, is dying a natural death- and it is an out-shoot which is destined to rele- gate the parent plant into obscurity in short no- tice. The one semester rule we will never have. It iosn't for usJ and we don't wan tit. However, we do welcotne such a rule as this, one that plucks . out the one reasonable idea in that pot-pourrt of false ones which arose during the fomenta- tion, and spreads it evenly over all phases of the fre wl: bu ne: tht est up the \V to in~ fUJ fn: stt ba ba atl th af: be be es th vc '8p Oll c. 2~ ec at a1 le

a ny he of ' tn or ad ' ty . lS It e. ' rt THE CONCORDIENSIS. lS h n qu .estion. For why should a freshman fre'Si ma . who is wavering dangerously in his work be bundled off the football field one day and the next day allowed to trapsy off to New York with the musical clubs? And also, when one of our esteemed rivals in, say_, football comes along and upbraids us for letting our. freshmen play while they keep them all home studying, we can say, \We believe that it is a good thing for a freshman to play football if he can show that it is not go- ing to estrange him with his text books. And, furthermore, we . go you one better; when our freshmen do show that they are at odds with their studies, not only do we yank them off the foot- ball field, but also off the musical clubs and de~ bating societies and college papers!'' * * * * * Any student who absented himself from the athletic dinner without a right good reason can measure him interest in his Alma Mater in a thimble. What a rousing Union get-together it was! A great pity that we can't have more such affairs in the course of the year. There is no better way to make Union men feel that they belong to one large family., with common inter- ests and common feelings. A college of half a thousand men is rather too prone to allow de- votion to class and fraternity supersede college ~Spirit. If there ever was an antidote for this, our basketball dinner is. C. S. PARKER WRITES LETTER ON PREPAREDNESS. In the Harvard Alumni Bulletin for March 29 appeared an interesting letter on prepar- edness contributed by C. S. Parker, Harv- ard, '12, who is a local instructor in French and German. We quote a portion of the letter: \We must laud Harvard's efforts to train men to play a leading part in the formulation of sane national policies. If An1erica is to stand foremost among the nations of th.e world in a firm ad- ,~erence to :righteous principles, if she 1 S to combat evil in the only way it can be successfully combatted, by a display of superior strength, if she is to lead in establishing perpetual peace by con- tributing to an international police force which shall restrain the selfish ambitions of individual nations, then it is the duty of Harvard students to familiarize themselves with tnilitary principles, that they may in a future emergency repay the debt which. Amer- ican citizenship places upon them and in a larger way help to bring- about universal concord and insure the bless- ing of righteous peace. \But conservative observers of the Harvard Regiment may .rightly insist upon some pledge that Harvard's pres- ent military enthusiasm will not lead to preparedness for war, that it is not a temporary outburst, an empty echo of the conflict across the ocean, tha.t it will not degenerate in to a mere college \act- ivity,\ to be regarded as a path to new social prominence. We want Harvard men to be real soldiers and citizens. Let the regiment, then, aim to cultivate in its members the soldierly qualities of physical endurance, prompt obed- ience, and chivalrous courage, and not content itself with the manual of arms and drill manoeuvres which may look well on parade. It takes more than guns and uniforms to make soldiers, and more than ballots and parties to make citizens, just as it requires more than fine words and Biblical inter- pretations to make Christians.\ -- ------ Condition examinations will be held Fri- day and Saturday, April 14 and 15. Regis- ter at the college office April 6, 7, and 8, not later than 12 m. on Saturday. ' \ I'

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. (QW W~l( THE UNION COLLEGE ANTHOLOGY. V. Uncie, the Mail Man. They bundled me off to prison for tampering with the mails, And when I walked out into the sunshine again And tried to get a decent job, They said, \Slide out of here, you jail bird!\ Sometimes, while tSweeping out a back room bar to earn my breakfast, I cursed myself for a crazy fool, And sometimes, when I earned enough to buy me brandy, I laughed, and slapped my sides, and ·yelled, \By heaven, it was worth it!\ Well, decide that for yourself: Kicking through the Spring slough of the catnpus. My bag grinding with the weight of stinking blue love lettervs, And a hundred bills; Wondering how many of the young fools Would be waiting this morni-ng To blab about my lateness if they got the blue ones, And call me a swift snail if they got the bills, Came to me the inspiration of my life- It 'Yas easy work to change the contents of two envelopes! On~ of them was choked with !'8poony drool and crosses, The other was a prohibition pamphlet. We can't for the life of us think of anyone left to deposi\t in our cemetery now that U ncie has departed. The old bringer of biUs-and some- times bills and coos-had been in our mind on the point of death for many columns back, but other campu-s mortals had happily up and died and put off his demise indefinitely. This obitu- ary is a touchy as well as a touching office. We have felt that it would be grave-(no wheeze in- tended)-matter should we obit upon anyone with sufficient sensitiveness to move hin1 to pick up a club and go get us for it. Perhaps -sotne of you gentlemen would like to experience a gratis trip across the Styx or, more likely, care to see a friend make the undertaking-(no wheeze in- tended}. We are open to suggestions; receiving none, we will have to scrap along the best we can sans anthologies. So mew hat like the man who drank the carbolic acid by mirstake, we must grin and bier it-· (wheeze intended). THE UNION AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE. Spring is hereJ cub, with its running rills and running noses. And with it comes an occasional desire to stand before our window and look out at the bald spots corning up through the snow drifts. But we haven't those penetrating tSort of eyes. Yesterday a Walling was doing chores in the lee and we asked him if the dor,mitory win- dows were ever washed. \Oh sure! There was a man around here washing up some o' them; but he never got far.\ \When was that?. ThirS year?\ \Aw gosh, no! That was 'for your day. Must a been five or six years ago!\ Thi.g man quit his job in disgust, or we buy the hat. We can see him striding up to Mr. Dewey and saying: \Here sir, is your rag and pail. I cannot do the work. I respectfully suggest that, when I am gone, you advertise for a quiet, mide dle-aged farmer and his family to move in and cultivate this land for you. Good by-and God bless you!\ Snow balls, as far as we know, are the only things that will ever make those windows trans- parent. WHAT MAKES THE COLUMNIST WILD? What awakens within him the paoSsion to go forth in the night and plunder, burn and kill? V\ 7 ell, for one thing, this does: Dear Nite: Yesterday I was walking down town with another colleger and I met a man of my acquaintance who is 6 feet two inches by 3 feet 4 in dimensions. \Hello Jeff,'' we said. \Who's that,\ said the colleger, ''Tesreau ?\ \No I said, j uoSt like that. HWillard !\ CONTRIB. SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. The Van's latest god-child, \See America First,\ stormed the White Way last week Tues- day and, according to the dispatches, is now re- treating in utter rout. We have seldom heard such a full-throated roar of anger arise from the critics, and they all are very much agreed to dis- agree with MirSs Murbury's taste this time, at ~- '. i! . '·t . ·:.( ·~ le p p lS q· 111 m tE C( be tc T fc w CC oi '. lC OJ w er w th fit sc al Cl th w Ti tit t~.t de BJ {11 st: ol th A1 de we de: w1 y( Ir stc th wi ne na w1 th all

at is see . lU· . we and out t of 111 was but st a the wey I and go my feet rica re- the dis- at ' :- i! . '·t . ·:.( ·~ ' : lir\\' ' ·! lf'£t ·~<t f/~1 ,. ' I J 1. :~ ' ' ·' l'' ; '\ ., t •:• ··.·1 \ . -~ ' ~:'! ; '' n .• ~ i -.·1 >i \ -;~ TFIE CONCORDlENSlS. 11 least. They all cry out loudly agains.t th.e lyrics being too much Gilbert and too httle Porter as L · Sh · · h p rter and Riggs. . outs erwtn tn t e P~st says of MilSs Bigelow: \Vocally she is not so bad. She evidently had at one tim.e quite a beautiful voice. She suggested in her manner-which embarassed her coleagues very much---that she was really a lady and only pre- tending to be an actress out of her ex::ceeding condescension. Before she appears again it is to be hoped that she will acquire sufficient humility to learn ~orne of the rudiments of the business.l' The Mail comes back with: \Broadway will wait for many moons before it sees again such an exquisite creature as Dorothy Bigelow. Hers was no simpering musical comedy heroine of the conventional stage type with her thin pretence of refinement.\ Burns Mantell saJIS: \See Amer- ica First\ is manifestly an upper classman' s comic opera. Nothing has been done to shave the wheezes or to smooth out awkward ex:its and entrances. No effort haiS been made, so far as we could see,. to inject a bit of common sense into the plot.\ The Tribune smash winds up with a final swipe in suggesting that the piece may run some time if there is a sufficient number of Yale alumni and their aunts, uncle'S and cousins in the city. * * * * * In the first suggestion of continuous stock at the Van we have another harbinger of Spring and, with it, signs of the waning theatrical season. The management, be it said to its credit, is get- ting in a great last lick thitS week with three not- t~.ble engagements, which, for their leads, delve deeply into the ranks of real stardom. Joseph Brooks is bringing us an all-star revival of his {!The Henrietta,\ which first turned a lively stream of dollars into hi'S pocket in the 80's. The old Van's footlights will dim Tuesday night in the radiance of five such stars as Crane, Ross, Arbuckle, Bingham and Taliaferro. Here, in- deed, is a red-letter day for local smashers, but we hope you pass it by. All the stars in star- dom will not hold a candle to the smashing jubilee which is coming with the athletic dinner. ''Watch Your Step,'' Thursday night, is the vehicle in which Irving Berlin'tS raggadies knocked the New Am- sterdam's attendance records sky high. Most of th .. . e o~1gmal cast, praises be, are coming along Wlth tt-the w. k. Mrs. Vernon C., Frank Tin- ney, Bernard Granville, Harry Kelly, Edna Bates nad Gertrude Rutland. Front row seats are wh' · tzztng, so they say. \Experience\ makes up the t. • · . all : 10 . of the week's splurge dramatic. Natur- y, lt 1s w. w. seeing, but the advertising tnan~ ager of the coming production is raising very litde hullabaloo, and we accordingly fear a weak cast. * * * * * To repeat, we hope you .sma~Shers shunned the Van Tuesday night and basked rather in the glow of our colle.ge·r stars. Here is the first engage .. n1ent on any stage of our re-born dramatics; you found that there are many weak spots yet to be gouged out, but you will be charitable, knowing that p. makes p., and there has been but very little time for practice. The coming pot~pourti c.m brace'S everything from a one-actlet, in which a ravishing blonde is fished from a watery grave to a darky chin-chin. The eats and speaks will be also-ran'S. We will smash our fi.first col- lege footlights at next appearance, and the doing of it will delight us greatly. The house on Washington Avenue which ad- vertise'S in the front window \Two canoes for sale,\ stands as which you might call a concrete exa1nple of that beautiful expression, \Nobody Home.\ Its back yard is at present son1ewhere in the Mohawk flood, and half an eye could see that the rain is coming. We wonder if it would strike one drolly or osim .. ply fan the usual pent-up passion into open out- burst shou·]<f we, on resignedly glancing over our matriculation receipt next fall, discover sandwiched between two of the old stand-by fees this one: Marjorie's battleship fee, $10.00. FUNNY-GRIMLY SO, BUT FUNNY! \Thirty Killed in Sleeper Train Cra'Sh.\-Head- line. \Porter make the berth up! Awful sleepy-good old bed! Make her cozy-here's a quarter. Where's the club car, up ahead?\ Doesn't seem as though you're shooting through the country like a streak Lolling, smoking in a club room all mahogany and teak. Bed's all ready-first a night cap in a glittering cafe; (Trains that lack thetn would be rotten, would be hopelessly patSsee.) Bed's all ready. \Lower nine, sir! Shall I call . . h ~\ you, slf, at e.tg t: \Ho ho, hu1n! No, needn't call n1e; g·uess I'll sleep tomorrow late., ' !·. ,\ 'i '!·'

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Drowsing off to dream securely in the droning of the rails, Rocking in a giant cradle, over hill and dale it sails. When you'll wake up in the morning, have a state you'll find you've fled; Comes a jerking-· ''Hum; What that?\-harder jerking-smash! and-dead! We have often heard a well turned ren1.ark by this or that colleger put a quietus on this or that class room discussion, but never was it more hap.pily done than by our old friend Lewis in English .gome four or five days ago. The char- acter of Becky Sharp in \Vanity Fair\ was under fire. She had been figuratively picked to pieces, and it seen1ed as if she were gravely in danger of being found untrue to life. \For said one in a final shaft against her, \She never showed the slightest love for her child at any time, and the tnother love will out some time or other.\ Becky wa.g evidently done for. There was a lull. Thoughts were turning elsewhere when, ''Ho,\ crashed out the voice of the Philosopher. \Why there are lots of animals that EAT their young!\ A FOOL AND HIS MONEY. Recently we discovered in a down-town cigar store a new brand of cigar which was either candidly or clandestinely named, \Rotten-But What's in a Name?\ Either a good name is rather to be chosen than great riche'8, or a fool and his money are soon parted. In the bursting out of Springtime-in its freshets, birds and love-rhyme- Comes our dear old morning chapel with its Belching Bens at dawn; With its brisk precipitations from Ole Beddo'-s fascinations, With its stretching, groaning, yearnings, with its soul be-gripping yawn. Be con.goled from undue sadness! Rather better beam with gladness While you bolt your roll and coffee, as you might say, on the wing. For each chapel marckers also-how they'd hate to have it thought so!- At the self-same moment doing just the self- same, blessed thing! NITE. BOOK i\CCOUNTS due at college office April 1. All those owing money are asked to see Mr. Dewey at once. ••••••••••••••••••• + • tt• \FORWARD MARCH TO PLATTS- t BURGH.\ tt.. By Ned Moore, +t~ + Psi U. House. +t• + + +++++++++++++++++++ It is very gratifying to find out that en .. thusiasm for the Training Camp movement has reached a de:fini te expression already. The last available reports indicate that six Union students have already enrolled, and that at least three of the faculty have been added to the :roll or are about to send in their applications. If this warm weather continues I hope that it will stimulate still further action. On the last tactical walk a few of the fel~ lnws from the hill were present notwith~ standing the rigor of the weather. Without having had any military experience, they \\1\rere able to cope with the problems pre- sented so well as to elicit praise from the officex in charge. This coming Sunday, April 9th, there will probably be another ·V\ralk, and in view of the increasing numbers anticipated Major McDonough will bring auother officer to assit in the conducting of the party. Now that the snow has gone I trust that more of the fellows will take ad- vantage of this opportunity, and in addition 1 would like to extend a special invitation to n1embers of the faculty. Notice of the time and place of meeting will be posted on the bulletin board as soon as ·received. I have a book of views of last summer's camps which I would be glad to show to anyone who is intexested enough to ask me for it. * * * If there is a good showing n1ade at the camps this year, it is very likely that an ap- propriation to cover the expenses of all men attending such camps in future years will be forthcoming. L E D M St D Sf U] ci q· p. fi b f. fl s· t~ s· s· c a p 0 f c s f r 1 (

++ + + ~· ~· ~· ~· en .. . SlX and in still fel~ the bers of I ad- tion to the to the ap- will THE C'ONCORDIENSIS. 19 LITERATEURS DINE TO . RATTLE OF POTS AND PANS. Enjoyable Evening Not, .Ho·wever, Marred By ·Glenn's N otsy Chef. DR. CHASE TOASTMASTER. Dr. Richmon and Dr. Berg Among Speakers at Successful Banquet. The Concordiensis Banquet held Friday, March 24, at Glenn's could not help being a success with Dr. Chase as toastmaster, and Dr. Richmond and Dr. Berg as the faculty speakers. Furthermore, it was a constant uproar-not from itself, but because it was close to Monsieur le chef's kitchen. Since experience is the best of teachers, the ban- quet will be held next year in some quieter place. Dr. Ernest J. Berg, honorary guest and first speaker, gave an interesting talk on \Concentration showing some differences between European and American colleges. He also compared the Concordiensis to other college papers, and showed how it was kept free from the purely technical tendencies of such schools as R. P. I. and Stevens. He told many little stories in his well known style. Richard E. Taylor '16, the retiring editor, spoke of his desire of seeing the Concordy changed from a weekly to a daily paper, and showed that if this was done, the news- paper form was better sui ted for that kind of a paper, than the present magazine form. He finished by wishing the new board a suc- cessful year. H. Ralph Knight '17, the incoming editor, stated that no definite plans had been formed as yet, but he hoped that under the new management the Concordy would be kept up to its old standard. J. Boward-Soler, president of the Press Club, spoke about his pet hobby, the Press Club, ancl. !expressed his desire for co-opera- tion of the 'Concordy with the Press Club in advertising the latter's Athletic Dinner, etc. He then outlined the new system of the Press Club, and showed how its business was carried on. President Richmond, the last speaker, spoke about the work done by the Concordy in the past and compared it with other col- lege papers. He also expressed a wish to see the Concordiensis changed into a -daily paper, with, perhaps, a monthly literary issue. He told a number of Scotch stories, of course, and ended by wishing the new board a successful year. BUSY MONTH AHEAD FOR DR. RICHMOND Has Ten Speaking Engagements for the Month of April. A busy month is cut out for Dr. Richmond during April. His speaking engagements for the month show that he will address ten different gatherings. His .schedule follows: Month of April: April 4- Press Club dinne1r. April 8-Central High School, Philadel- phia. April 9-Tome School, Port Deposit, Maryland. April 11-W ashington Alumni dinner. April 16-Emtna Willard School. April 21~Schoolmasters' Club at Syra~ cuse. April 24-Buffalo Y. M. C. A. April 27-Brooklyn alumni dinneT. April 28-Philadelphia alumni dinner. April 30-Bryn Mawr College. Unpreparedness in the shape of an un- finished diamond, prevented Columbia from playing the first three games on its sched- ules, the latest cancellation being that with Amherst on April 4.

20 THE CONCORDIENSTS. ++++++++++++++++++++ + + KNIGHTS OF KHAKI. + + ++++++++++++++++++++ It is said that Dr. Hale, Dr. Chase, and Charlie Waldron will don khaki this sum- mer and march away to the training camp at Plattsburg. No doubt Charlie will bring back as the spoils of mock-warfare a better understanding of the battles and sieges of American history and his comrades in arms will be better able to interpret the character of Hotspur as a result of their summer's . . campa1gn1ng. There need be no surprise that these gen- tlemen whose past experience has been more with books and inkpots than with ;, guns, and drums, and wounds\ should march off to tents and trenches. In \'days of old when knights were bold\ and the profession of arms was more widely followed than today the literary and the soldiery character were not infrequently combined in the same man. Caesa•r was a writer and a fighter ; Cicero ~erved in the servile war; Dick Steele was a guardsman. \Mr. Steel, sir, if you please, of His Majesty's Horse Guards\- General Burgoyne was a London wit and playwright \vho came over to America no less to aston- ish the rebellious settlers with the rhetoric of his thunderous fulminations than to over- wheln1 them with his artillery. Even though fighters have been less cultured than these warriors they still revealed a gift for opt ex- pressio-n no less admirable, all the way fron1 Caesar's, \The dye is cast\ to General Sher- n1an's epigrammatic definition of war. If a man is distinguished as the g·reatest living critic of the novel, or as a book in hreeches, or as the greatest press agent of Union College it is no sign that under his skin there does not linger a bent for bilboes ~i.nd kettel-drums. •••••••••••••••••••• • + •) LAMENT FOR A LAUNDRYMAN +:. + FROM LEARNING LOST. +l+ + + ++++++++++++++++++++ Ed. Cameron is a braw Scotsman Of race and canty knowledge. Eke once a week he goes to seek The soiled clothes of the college. Our shirts, our collars all he packs Into his laundry box, Or underwear, he does nae care, Or handkerchiefs or socks. Ben Jonson was a bricklayer, Shakespeare a butcher's boy: With soaps and suds. and cleaning duds Ed. mingles the stude's en1ploy. F·rom classic realm5 o'bard and seer And from historic annals, From storied page Ed. turns t' engage In cleansing flannels. And when the Soph's report is up, Prepared by the Commit. A bold black mark in murk ink dark 'Gainst Cameron's name is writ. Thus does the braw and canty Ed. Pursue th' elusive dollar And scorn high art for Mammon's 1nart When he should be a scholar. And this is why the Muses mourn And gods of ancient Greece, For Ed evades Pierian shades To win the golden fleece. F. G. B· The Interfraternity Conference of Syra, cuse University recently voted to prohibit fraternity members from joining underclass societies. By joi BL ''TI E.W. Co lit cl al 1 Phone

JOIN OUR 'CLUB AND OWN A BICYCLE on our easy payment plan, $1 down and $1 a week, and take your choice of the following High Grade Wheels: New England, Iver .. Johnson, American, Pope Moto1e Bike By joining now you secure a discount ot 5, 7 or 10 percent. Let us give you particulars. BURKE, 230 So. Centre St, ~~~o!::~~.Excelsior an1p~':.':.d~~3:. \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 Collette Repreoent9tive NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie!:s insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So Ferry Street ''Look for the Cow's Head'' Shows over the coat in back; low sharp. smart curveaway front; good knot and slide space ~for~5c CLUETT, PEABODY .t. CO., Inc., Makers, TROY. N.Y. CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm~ It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. WHEN 'Phone 44:89 IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

Spring S . . prtng Hats Shirts Spring Clothes This way, please, if you desire the Newest and Best in Spring Outfitting! At this Good Clothes Store yot1 get all the style, the Finest Tailoring and the Choicest Fabrics---The Distinctive Models that are Shown in this Store Exclusively. Spring Suits Spring Coats Come In, Look Them Over HTD 455 STATE STREET The Store That Creates---But Never Imitates Schenectady ~ Art Pres-s :

e i r : ', ' ' .. _ \' .1'..0; - j~' t • \~ • ·i i .) CONCORDIENSIS VOLUME 39 APRIL I ... Igi6 .)I NO. 21 PU.BLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

·~UNION u·NlVERSilY CHAR~LES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Ceur•e• leading· to the degree of A.. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B -This course may be pur- sued by candidates who satisfy the require1nents for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. S. Course lending to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-ScntN'l'IFIC CouRSE-This course offers I.,atin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of JJ. 8. ScntN'l'Ill'IC Couns~t- This course is based upon the study of tnathematics and the sciences. 4. Cour•e leading to the degree of B. E. GitNERAL ENGINEERING Couas~-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, econmnics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. EutC'l'RICAL ENGINE!tRING CouRsE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. G. (Jour•e• lea41ng to graduate degreen. CouRSE ~E.ADING TO DEGREE OF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRS~ L2ADING TO DEGREE OP M. S. in E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRs~ LEADING ro DEGREE or Pn. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an eqtdvale11t. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. ·L. V. Herrington Grocedes, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 183~A complete reorganizatiot.t has been effected duro1~~ the past year. Largel:r tncreas~d Hospital facll1ttes have been assured wtth teachtng services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate responsibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved methods. Wit~ these chan~es, it is believed t~at ~he Albany ~1ed1cal College ts prepared to furn1sh tnstruction which will n1eet the highest demands of modern tnedical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physic·s, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and other communication'S should be ad- dressed to THOMAS ORDWAY, M. D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the universitv is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occGpies a building wholly devoted to i!s use. The coun~e leading to the degree of LL. B. t! three years; each year is divided into two ~e.mesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $ro: tuttlon fee. $Ito. For catalogue or other information, address: JOHN C. W A 'I'SON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. ~For catalogue giving full information, address: ALFRED B. HuES'ti<:D, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25c. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Acrou from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ·- VOL. 3 ..t BASEB As NeVI F Wealth I With off, the ed to tl get in· pionshi For r heen tr conditic tice wa but thi been in has be year's ~ Ernie ~ n1issed n1ateri; 111 ake 1 season showir will de trainin

The Concordiensis VOL. 39 APRIL 13, 1916 NO. 21 BASEBALL SQUAD, ABOUT FIFTY STRONG, OUT IN THE AIR AT LAST As New York Trip Approaches Training Tightens Up. PROSPECTS ARE BRIGHT. Wealth of New Material Waiting to Fill Places of Graduated Veterans. With the New York trip about ten days off, the forty-eight candidates who respond- ed to the reveille of baseball have begun to get in ·shape, and the prospect of a chan1.- pionship aggregation materializes every day. For near 1 .ty three weeks Coach Dawson has he en training his men. At first the we a thel. conditions were very unfavorable, and prac- . · tice was held three times a week in the gym, but this week the 1~ ott Street diamond has been in good condition, and the entire squad has been out every day. Of course, last year's graduates, among them Teedy Woods, Ernie Houghton, and Dave Beaver, will be n1issed, but there is an abundant store of new n1aterial besides the vete·rans, which should 111 ake the team better than in any previous season. May, Goff, Flood, and Manion are showing up well in practice, while Greene will develop into a star catcher, with a little training. The response to the call iv1· baseball has been well answc..1·ed, and there promises to be keen competition for some positions. Those who have been coming out regularly in- clude the following: Baldany, Bellinger, Beyerl, Christie, Creble, Fancher, Flood, Fri- day, Girling, Goff, Goodman, Gorham, Greene, Griswold, Guild, Hance, Hathaway, Jenkins, Keleher, Knight, Manion, May, Mc- Cauley, Miller, Mosher, Moynihan, Palmer, Peaslee, Powell, Reed, Roo~, Rosenthal, Rosecrans, Schamberger, Simmons, Travis, Walrath, Wallace, Wheeler, Zimmer, Steele, Roberts, Raynesford, Calhoun, Vought, Philip, McCreery and Garrison. BIG SIX IS ILL. Last Thursday Carl B. Jenkins was taken ill with an abscess of the ear. He was at- tended by local physicians but with little result. He went to his home in Glens Falls and on Monday went to the Glens Falls Hos- pital where a successful operation was per- formed. A speedy recovery is looked for- ward to. Old Job \Vol£, former campus officer, died Sunday morning. Mr. Wouf was campus of- ficer three years ago, and had held the posi- tion for six years, until he was forced to re- sign on account of his illness. l ' ,

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. PRINCIPLES OF CHRIST NEGLECTED IN EDICTS OF EUROPEAN CHURCHES ~Gospel Neglected Says Dr. E. A. Noble. SPEAKS IN SUNDAY VESPERS \The Gospel of Jesus Christ is Bigger Than Any National Policy.\ At the vesper service held in the college chapel on Sunday, April 9_, Dr. E. A. Noble of the First Methodist Church in this city was the speaker.. His general theme was: ''The \¥ orthy 'rhings of Life.\ Of the numerous worthy things of life which he mentioned, the two upon which he based the most irnportance and upon which he laid particular e1nphasis were the ability to be- lieve in son1ething holy and the ability to act bravely in service of a good cause.. At no other time have these abilities been more in demand than at the present. The great European conflict has called forth different expressions of opinion from the neutral countries. Ar-e the attitudes of these coun- tries brave? In such a case as this, it is difficult to de- cide what is the proper attitude to take. The principles of Jesus Christ apply to a nation just as well as they do to individuals. But how many people believe this? The churches of England, of Russia, and of Germany, upon issuing proclamations relating to the conduct of their nations in this war, did not once refer to the principles of Christ. Peace societies and son1e of the churches in this country upon discussing this conflict have likewise refrained from 1nentioning these principles, although the gospel of Jesus Christ is bigger than any national policy. Dr. Noble closed his talk by appealing to all and urging everyone to believe in Hi1n who is holy and thus. be qualified to act brayely in service of a great cause. +++++++++++++++++••· ·:· STUDENT MEETING. MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1916 As usual, the meeting started with Gene's talk on basebabll. He said that, although he did not know anything definite about vvhen outdoor practice could be started, he did know that hard training and good phy- sical shape are necessary if we are to win the coming games. vV e all are laughing still, for Charlie \V aldron ca1ne to this 1neeting with his \high brow\ inspirations. He told us that he can1e to talk on dramatics, but that war vvas also worth while and that, therefore, he was going to speak on the navy as that is our first line of defense. Ensign Hambsch's proposition extreme- ly fine, so fine indeed that he hoped Union men would go on the cruise. Finally, however, Charlie proved that he really did come to speak on dramatics. This sport, he said, is now going through another period of revival. H.e even mentioned the wonder- ful 1ninus $400 show, and that other ex- pedition to Gloversville when the actors de- cided before the performance that they need- ed warming. When he had finished declar- ing that dramatics is a \fine expression of an enriched life,\ we decided that Charlie was doing the good work of keeping this activ- ity on its feet and at the same tin1e prepar- ing the vvay for Pud Heuenstein to rob us of $1.00 apiece. \I move you that, beginning with next falL the 111e1nbers of the Student Body be taxed 50 cents a se1nester for ·dramatics,\ were Pud's words. The resolution was passed after some discussion and explanation which included the statement that the Student Activities Committee is going to dictate vvho among the freshmen shall or shall not participate in dramatics. 'fhe rc Activitie notice of n1an cla~ tary oft proposec was accE \Reso: w·ith po' faculty 1 the pres Council Fresh1n<: Soiree a and the urers an as sha111 The b Smith, 1 Hobart Wew but eve1 nouncen year's \ to give The ] were an nights r This< CH The l Monday try lecb ''Produ< try;, an( talk wa~ critic .. The] Baptist speaker is well1 support had.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 t-fhe resolutions concerning the Student Activities Committee and the three days' notice of all elections except those for fresh- 111an class officers were passed. As secre- tary of the Terrace Council Nat Finch, also, proposed the following resolutions, which was accepted : \Resolved That there be a committee w·ith power composed of one member of the faculty (to be selected by the faculty) and the president and secretary of the Terrace Council to audit the financial reports of the Fresh1nan Peerade, Junior Prom, Sophomore Soiree and Freshman Banquet committees, and the financial reports of the class treas- urers and such other committees or officers as shall be designated by the several classes.\ The baseball schedules, explained Newell Smith, had one mistake. The time of the Hobart game here is 2 :00 P. M. We were not expecting to hear of football but even that came in the form of an an- nouncement from Spig Porter that next year's \would-be assistant managers\ are to give hin1 their names at once. The Band and Classical Club elections were announced for Monday and Tuesday nights respectively. This day lunch waited longer than usual. ~HEMICAL SOCIETY NOTES. The Union College Chemical Society met Monday evening, April 3rd, in the chemis- try lecture room. Mr. Creble spoke about ''Products of the Wood Distillation Indus- try;, and \The Manufacture of Paper.\ The talk was well received. Mr. Salathe acted as critic .. The Rev. Roscoe C. Penny of the First Baptist Church of this city will be the ~peaker at vespers next Sunday. Rev. Penny ts well known on the hill and deserves better support than some of the past speakers have had. RADIO CLUB NOTES. Uphoff '18, gave a talk on the design and construction of wave meters at a meeting of the Radio Club in the electrical laboratory last Friday. Mr. Uphoff illustrated his talk by frequent references to the wave meter now in the college station, which he design- ed and constructed. Plans are now under way to enlarge the aerial. Negotiations are being made to get a hundred foot mast to be used in conjunc- tion with the present one, which will prob- ably have to be moved farther back to make way for the new Butterfield Memorial build- ing. With the proposed aerial the range of the station will be considerably increased so that constant communication with the New York papers and with other colleges will be assured and the original plan of sending out news for the Press Club can be carried out. Operators will be on duty at the station after 9 :30 P. M. on eve-ry night except Sun- day and Monday. ENGLISH CLUB INITIATION HAS BEEN SET\ FOR APRIL 28 .. Mr. Parker Reads Paper on Longfellow's Prose-Other Club Notes. On the 28th of April the following 1917 n1en will be initiated into the English Club:· Clough, Van A very, Frankel, Ilallock, Mandeville, Imrie, Sammons and Knight. These eight men with Gilbert '17, who is al- ready a member, will n1ake up next year's English club. At the last meeting, Friday, l\1arch 31, Mr. Parker read an interesting paper on \Long- fellow's Prose.\ At next Friday's n1eeting Dr. Fobes will read a paper.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ENSIGN P. F. HAMBS:CH SPEAKS ON .NAVY C'RUISE District Recruiting Officer Gives Plea For Large Union Delegation. A PLATTSBURG ON ·THE SEA. Destroyer May be Sent to Albany to Take Vicinity Sailors to New York. P. F. Hambsch, Ensign, U. S. Navy and Recruiting Officer of this district, spoke after chapel service Monday on the Volun- teer Naval Cruise to be held this surnmer from the middle of August to the middle of September. He began by emphasizing the grave necessity for a reserve personnel. In the navy are fifty-two thousand men, where- as seventy-one thousand would be needed to man every ship con~pletely. If a war were to break out, one hundred thousand rnen would be required. Because of this need for a reserve, and because of a desire to stimulate and promote a practical kind of patriotis1n, and an interest in our navy, it has been decided to instigate a volunteer naval cruise. The facts which Ensign Hambsch men- tioned were very interesting to us all. Those eligible for the cruise are men between 18 and 45 years of age who can pass a strict phy- sical exa1nination and who, by means of training in certain trades, or by means of a technical or mechanical experience, are qualified for the work. For instance, those Union men who satisfy these requirements are those in the engineering department, to- gether ·with such n1en as have obtained a knowledge of machinery or have had ex- perience as carpenters, electricians, · steam fitters, etc. The ships of the second line of defense, which are to be used, will sail from a num- ber of points along the coast, such as Bos- ton, New York, Philadelphia, and Charles- ton, but those going from this section will probably be taken fron1 Albany to New York on some small naval craft. Three weeks of the cruise are to be spent at sea with the remaining one devoted to solving naval problems in the vicinity of the home port. For the thirty dollars which the uni- form and outfit will cost the men who go on this trip will have plenty of hard work, hut along with drudgery there wiH be good times. At the end of the cruise the men are to be asked-but not forced-to join the Naval Reserve for three years. If you wish to know more of these things you may get any amount of information at the Recruiting Station in the Hough Building. At a ·recent poll, the students of Louis- iana State University voted as follows on topics of the day: President of the United States? \Voodrow Wilson ------------------- 327 Theodore Roosevelt ----------------- 35 \V. J. Bryan ---------=--------------- 3 Are You For Allies or Germans? Allies ------------------ ------------ 316 Germans --------- ------------------- 85 Woman's Suffrage? Yes --------------------·------------ 162 No ----------------·---------------- 85 Should the United States Intervene in Mexico? \\7\ 294 Ies ________ ------------------------ ~0 -------- ------------------------ 117 Prohibition or Anti? P h 'b' . 24~ ro 1 1t1on ------------------------:-- • J\nti ----------~~~~-~~~------------- 184 All the 191 'I Garnet copy is in the hands of the printers, so that the Garnet for once shows good prospects of being out on schedule time. The English Club announces that a profit of $60 was made on the John Masefield lec- ture. ~\fhis money will be used to purchase books on English literature for the library. DR. W. Presidel ·.·;· Dr. V ·'· . ·' present Sao Pa~ and edu tan Clu the COUl parts, tl where t •t' ., ests an ·'i ·, silvas. '\' '·'1 ;.: heights often 01 er. Th the ve~ Far 1 great f~ have al of this stated gathen consid( How into tb w·estw: year. considl vvard a the gr1 . lS COt nifican ToV\ reache class c erable ' port i J droutl these Ho, count ilian 1

·.·;· ·'· . '· 't' ., ·, THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 DR. WADDELL, CLASS OF '82, ADDRESSES COSMOPOLITANS President of Macke.nsie College Talks on Brazil. Dr. Waddell of the class of '82, who is at present chancellor of Mackensie ~oUege at Sao Paolo, Brazil, gave a very interesting and educating lecture before the Cosmopoli- tan Club on Monday night. He said that the country divided naturally into three great parts, the coastal plain, the rolling tundras where the coffee is grown and the vast for- ests and swamps, which are called the silvas. In these trees often grow to great heights while their spread of branches is often one hundred and eighty feet in ·diamet- er. These great swamps are impassable and the vegetation and animals run wild. Far up the Atnazon in the mi9.st of this great forest is the rubber country. We have all heard a great deal about the horrors of this great wilderness and Dr. Waddell stated that a harvest of rubber, which was gathered at a cost of one life per ton was considered a cheap harvest. . How:ver, civilization is slowly advancing 1nto th1s great belt and is pushing its way w·estward at a rate of about 8 kilometres a yea~. This does not seem rapid when we consider that our own settlers moved west- vvard at a rate of 2'1 kilometres a year, but if ~he gre~t difference in climate and country 1 ~ cons1dered this will become no insig- nrfican~ rate of progress. Toward the north, in the region that reaches out furthest toward Europe, a lower class of people are found. They 1i ve in tnis- erable homes and their chief article of ex- port is sugar. This vicinity is subject to drouths about once in 15 or 20 years and at the~e times the people ·die like flies. However, toward the southern part of the : 1 ?untry are found the flower of the Braz- 1 lan people. Here are the great coffee fields of the country, which vie with Abbysinia for the honor of raising the major portion of the world's supply. The average cost of a pound of coffee, delivered at the docks is 40,c. The center of this region is Sao Paolo, one of the most beautiful cities in the world. This city can be compared to Los Angeles for it has ~prung into being in the last few years and ~snow the best lighted and best policed city 1n the south. Dr. Wad dell finished his talk by telling about the formation of the present republic in Brazil. In these stormy times the great leading figure was that of Pendenti Moraes ' who later became first president. He was a distant relative of Moraes '18. Dr. Wad- dell is visiting Dean Ripton during his stay in Schenectady and has spoken once in chapel. He is a 1nember of Psi UpsiloJ?, fraternity. Dr. Morton C.S tewart is taking active in- terest in the Press Club. He is giving some of his time daily to the assistance of the men 1 n turning out the work. It will be the policy of the club hereafter ·to limit its men1- bership more than in the past vvith the hope of securing greater competition and better results. Dr. Hill of the Economics Department is very busy in his new position as Commis-- sioner of Public Charities of the city. He is 11aturally interested in the work. He has been relieved of part of his duties in the class-roon1 by Dr. Sakolski of the Delaware and Hudson Company. Dr. Sakolski has l~ctured at several of the large universities. Mrs. R. D. Young, Adrian, Mich., is a guest at the sanitarium in Battle Creek ' Mich., having gone there to take advantage of the institution.-The Adrian (Mich.) Telegram.

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly PubU.shed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., aos Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Ralph Knight------------ Psi Upsilon Hou•se MANAGING EDITOR. Fawcett W. Porter '17 ---------- Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR. William C. Loughlin '17, Phi Gamma Delta House LITERARY EDITOR David F. Chapman '17 --------- Delta Phi House ASST. LITERARY EDITOR Rudolph W. Schwartz '17 ____ 37 Glenwood Blvd ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. G. Carey, Jr., '18 E L. Newell '18 F. G. Bascom '18 S W. Talbot '18 H. L. Cook '18 REPORTORIAL STAFF. H. H. Newton '19 Adam Bailey '19 G D. Rosenthal '19 W. R. Barnett '19 C A. Brind, Jr., '19 A. B. Dougal '19 E. J. Griswold '19 K. H. Gorham '19 V. H. Scales '19 Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. MOUNTAIN CLIMBING. Of late years, we fondly believe, THE CON- CORDI EN SIS has been plodding doggedly up over the foot-hills of Mount Perfection, winding perhapoS at times far away from the straight road and along some easy-going by-way, undoubted- ly turning brazenly around and coasting back down hill once or twice-but always catching itself again and, in a year or two, climbing higher up than it had ever been before. We see in today's CONCORDIENSIS a better paper than it was five years ago, a far better paper than it was five years before that. Coincidently, we see that it is not quite out of the foot hills yet, while the crowd of our fair rivaloS-judged as such upon the basis of circulation-are swinging along 'way up above us; we can see the Willian1s Record in the lead just con1ing out of the tin1ber line. And our eyes are just about strong enough to n1ake out the papers of the larger colleges still further up, clambering over the last ledges as they vainly try to keep abrea.gt of the Cornell Sun. With these latter we are not concerned, for their's would be a sorry plight indeed if they could not blaze the way for us. We are, however, considerably con. cerned when, on turning to liook back into the valley not so very far below us, we discover a whole platoon of high oschool papers topping the first hills with a most disconcerting celerity. All this spectacle arose before us only too real. istically last week at the convention of the East· ern College newspapers in Columbia University. It arose and smote us on the head, much as did the playing cards which awakened Alice from Wonder- land. Not at all that we had been drowsing in this regard; we ·have, on the contrary, been widely awake to the shifting winds of late, and we have been well aware that the barometer has been slow- ly but surely rising toward \Change.\ Change from the news-literary-everything-else book form, which strikes one at the osame time as being both juvenile and antique, to a newspaper that looks like a newspaper-and is nothing else. Down in the foot hills, still plodding along with us in these old clothes, remains, as far aos we know, but one other college paper which is legitimately in our circle. At the convention we were painfully brought to see the enorn1ity of our sin, and, if not scornfully, at least, scathingly, informed that m.ore than one spritely individual from down in the valley had slipped cleanly by us in the night while we slept. They told us it was high time we changed our clothes from the garb of the plains- n1an to that of the mountaineer, and high time we hied ourself up where we ought to be. To all this we replied that we were eager enough to settle down into the real climb, which we could see not far ahead, but that there loomed up immediately before us a treacherous chasm to be crossed first -and smilingly added that we perceived more than one of our rivalos who were looking pretty anaemic yet, though they had gotten over the chasm some years ago. We want a newspaper at Union but, if it means the extinction of what little literary life does still remain, we do NOT want it. There's the ruh and there's the chasm. Those papers up above us got ove awaY t1 thetnsel hired a burden yelled 1 literary under a the exc retary : ther he ged ou1 ever af of ours chagrin strong and a than 01 a sad E are flo: we do gates :: So, i CORR down do thin throw CONC first-c we pr anothe certain and di, CONC terribl . . tmaglll tisers has ris would they t;; stead ~ GAR~ as did Thi: moun1

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 got over in one of two way.s-either they tossed awaY the literary idea altogether and thus made themselves light enough to jun1p over, or they hired a travelling secretary, shunted off half their burden upon his shoulders, leaped over safely and yelled back for the other to follow. A distinct literary magazine was this secretary, publi.shed under a separate board as a monthly of letters, to the exclusion of all news. It .seems that the sec- retary invariably bridged the chasm without fur- ther help but, in many cases, was so utterly fag- ged out by the job that he was good for nothing ever after. It seems that many of these rivals of ours, after thus disuniting, discovered to their chagrin that their circulation medium was not strong enough to carry along both a newspaper and a lit. More than one lit in bigger colleges than our own has been tossed up on the rocks in a sad state of financial wreckage, and n1any more are floating rapidly in towards the breakers. This we do not· exaggerate. Surprisingly many dele- gates at the convention told the same tale. So, if we are to have new habiliment for CON- CORRDIENSIS, it seems that we must walk down one side of the street or the other to the clothing store. Going down one side, we must throw away the literary entirely. We will see CONCORDY come out on a roll of papyrus first-and hasten across to the other side. Here we preserve the literary through the birth of another publication. Which publication, we are certain, would have a most miserable existence. and die young. It could never be done at Union. CONCORDY, heaven knows, scrapes along terribly near the breaker'S as it is, and we can well imagine the roar that will burst from the adver- tisers when they discover where the baron1eter has risen to-not to mention the earthquake which would break on the heels of a suggestion that they please in the future support two papers, in- stead of one, and still preserve their fealty to THE GARNET. No, this sidewalk ends in a brick wall, as did the other one in a stone fence. This barricade, which is also the chasm on the mountain h · 1 · h , w 1c 1 1s t e step that will tnean a bet- ter CONCORDIENSIS, has ostopped us dead. We pause and look about us for help. We pause and look to the alumni who take CONCORDY, we hope, because they enjoy read- ing it, and to the students who should feel a touch of interest whether they take it or not. Perhaps you think CONCORDY doesn't want to get over the barricade; perhaps you like it better now, or perhaps you would .s·ee progress in the change; perhaps there has occurred to you some inter- mediary step which would mean a happy med- ium of conservative progress. Well, if you care a rap about it one way or the other, if you give anything more than a casual snap of your finger what becomes of CONCORDY next month or next year or ten years from now, for heaven's sake out with it! Write it to us, and lead us to be- lieve we aren't publishing a paper in the middle of the Sahara Desert. THE FORUM. -tt+ This column does not nece-ssarily express •!• -tt+ the sentiments of the editors of THE CON- •!• ~· CORDIENSIS. We heartily welcome cotn- •:. -tt• munications from alumni and undergrad- ~+ ~+ uates but, in doing so, reserve the right of + ~+ selection and deletion. •l-- + + ++++++++++++++++++++ Editor Concordy: Wasn't your editorial comment on the athletic dinner written ante factum? The sentence, \What a rousing Union get-to- gether it was,\ gives you away. The tenor of the editorial does not indicate that it was 1neant for irony. It is a pity that such words could not be spoken in truth of the athletic dinner. But to speak candidly of it one would be com- pelled to say, \What a dismal affair it was!\ Instead of the easy mirth and buoyant spirits which usually n1arf men at n1eat and should 1nark college students assembled to celebrate an athletic season, a funeral air

1~ THE CONCORDIENSIS. predominated. The diners were enveloped +t• +t• +t• + +t• + •t+ + + + + •:• t¢• •lt + + + •l+ •l+ + in a cloud of gloom so thick that the toast- + + master, a member of the faculty, had to at- + '\TIS THE LOVE OF BROTHER +t• tempt to dispel it by getting up and request- •l• FOR BROTHER.\ + ing the students to sing. \Downy Sl.eep, •lt By Fred Townsend. Death's Counterfeit,\ was shaken of£ for a + +t• moment, voices were feebly Taised in a song +t• •%• + + +t• + +t• + + + + +t• + + •t+ •t+ +t• •) •l+ + but one by one were stilled until only a few hardy spirits were left to carry the refrain. What was the excuse for this pall settling down upon us ? There was none ; it was a '~want-wist sadness.\ We were under the restraint of no national or local grief. The dinner was palatable. The prospect was bright for a pleasant entertainment to fol- low. Yet the solemnity was awful. Every man was a Don Dismallo incarnate. Some say that college students are he- coming more serious. The strife for \ef- ficiency\ in the outside world is reacting upon us causing us to put away childish things. But let us not become so serious ourselves that we shall appear laughable to others, as we do when we sit around the festive board with faces as long as the Blue Law. The greatest dignitaries unbend at times. Occasions such as this are occasions when we should cast our nighted color off and play the fast. It would show both good sense and good taste to do so. Chops-and- Tomato-Sauce. It was announced last week at New Brunswick that football relations will be resunted between Rutgers and Princeton. This year's break, it was stated, was not caused by ill feeling between the institu- tions, but by inability to ag~ee on a date. Dr. William Lyon Phelps of Harvard University, speaking at the mid-year initia- tion of the Syracuse chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, decl~red that the real drama has never been better off. \The movies have not injured the real drama a particle,\ he said. From midst the Battle's legion, From midst a world at war, Out of these hellish regions, Where missions of death do pour, Free from war's awful ~ravages, Free from a world at war, Out of these hellish regions, The souls of the dead still soar. The men above shall rue the day, For only too well they know, 1.~hat through the dawn of morning gray: They have borne a day of woe. They know not why they started, Still they go fearfully on, And with these men still parted, We awake to another dawn. Away with this wild delusion That brotherly love has fled: De we not expect the intrusion Of a God who has seemed to be dead? A wake ! ! ! and arouse the intruder, And the sorrows and griefs assuage, For 'tis the love of brother for brother, By which the world is swayed. NOTICE. All freshman who intend to try out in the football co1npetition next fall should hand in their names to Manager Porter or Assist- ant Manager Eddy immediately. In two early season baseball games, the Navy defeated Amherst, 1-0, and Princeton won frotn Villa Nova, 2-1. First class pitching marked both games. Now been jt that th killed · The I\ active a grea1 practic \ . servtcE ever tj this ye In c the tol play, lc who a1 do, frc night. clined, self. northv Hotel every hotel , founta the ba freshit tion, f within worth Cante~ ever t cream dined The that o sotne a sail under all in

THE CONCORDIENSlS. 17 ~I ''FORWARD MARCH TO PLATTSBURG.\ By Ne.d Moore·, Psi U House Now that the Senate military bill has been just barely passed there is still a c~ance that the Training Camp Movement wtll be killed when the joint bill is finally framed. 'rhe National Guard has proven to be an active opponent of this movement, which is a great pity, because it seems to be the only practicable step in the direction of universal service in this country. However, what- ever the outcome, the Training, Camps of this year will not be affected. In case there a·re some who think that the tour at these camps is all work and no play, let me assure you it is not so. The men who attend go there to learn; and learn they do, from six in the morning until seven at night. But after that, if one feels so in- clined, there are things to do to amuse one's self. Cars run on ten-minute schedule, northward to town, and south ward to the Hotel Champlain, where there is dancing every night. The town itself has movies, hotel dances at intervals, and many soda- fountains. The camp is situated almost on the bank of the lake, and chances for a re- freshing swim occur every day. In addi- tion, there are many places of natural beauty within reaching distance which are well worth spending a Sunday to see. Even the Canteen, within the limits of the camp, is ever ready to dispense candy, pop, ice cream and tobacco to those who feel in- clined to stay at home. There seems to be a new appeal now ; that offered by the Navy League. Perhaps sotne of the studes are more attracted by a sail o'er the briny deep than by the life under the khaki tents. At any rate, it is all in the nan1e of preparedness, and as such should be highly recommended if more men from the hill, and from the country at large for that matter, are attracted into the mili- tary game. However, the plea for greater numbers at Plattsburg this year shall be steadily con- tinued. In some future number I hope to be able to publish a goodly list of names of those studes who have enrolled and trust that n1y prediction of twenty-five or thirty from Union will be fulfilled. The tactical walks seem to have been con- tinually drawing our rottenest weather. Whether any men from here went last Sun- day o.r not I don't know, because the slush on the ground induced a similar condition in my spirit and I decided to stay at home. Let us hope that in the future the weather will be more favorable, for these walks are most excellent for a good healthy hike, having in addition the value of a definite purpose. * * * Last year fully half of the enrollments were made within three weeks of the time the camp started. This year there should be no good reason for such delay : the re- quirements and information necessary have been supplied far in advance. If a man feels sure he can go, let him enroll now; if he cannot tell until the last minute he'll have to wait and take a chance. * * * There are six other training camps to be held this year: in Georgia, Indiana, Utah, California, Washington and Texas. * * * The estin1ate of the cost of the uniform seen1s to be too low. One price list-The Army and Navy Co-operative Company- n1akes the uniform figure up to $13.95; ex- clusive of socks and shoes. There are cheaper and more expensive prices quoted by other concerns; this one will furnish esti- 1nates on club quantities.

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS. CH.EMICAL SOCIETY IS ONE OF UNION'S MOS'T IMPORTANT ACTIVITIES. Founded in April, 1914-It Is Now In Flourishing Condition. ALUMNI MEMBERS SUCCESSFUL List of Papers Show Scope of Work Done. A Training School for American Chemical Society. The Chemical Society of Union College is an organization of prospective chemists and teachers of chemistry. At the present time it may be said the society is in a flourishing condition. Founded in April, 1914, and with a membership limited to fifteen, it has aimed to be modern and practical. Certain it is that with the advanced courses in chemistry elective and only three or six credit hours allowed, the men who expect to become pro- fessional chemists have not in cfass-roon1 and laboratory got their fill of the sub- ject of their choice. Hence the Chemical Society. The men get together bi-weekly, transact a little business, listen to a paper, usually by a member, and enjoy a social time with or without refreshments. The society thus serves the purpose also of a training school for the American Chemical Society to which all good chen1ists belong; after graduation from college. That the society is fulfilling its function in connection with the ·nepartment of Chem- istry in preparing men for a chemical life is attested by the fact that all three 1914 men took chemistry positions on graduation; Meneely went to the Halcomb Steel Com- pany in Syracuse, Mudge became Labora- tory Assitant in Che1nistry in Columbia University and Vosburgh became assistant here at Union. Mudge is now professor of chemistry at Albright College and V os- burgh is private research assistant to Dr. ].. M. Nelson of Columbia University. Of the 1915 graduates in chemistry all ten secured positions. With the exception of one or two the positions are all strictly chem- ical. Beaver, D., has been chemist at the Schenectady Sewage Disposal Plant and is now ·dyeing rugs as chemist in Amsterdam. Beaver, J., is earning his living athleticallv in New York City and doing excellent grad- uate work in Columbia University. .Blod- gett is teaching chemistry in the high school at Caldwell, N. J. Byron went with the Halcomb Steel Company of Syracuse. Faust made explosives in Glens Falls and is now chemist at the Sewage Disposal Plant, Schenectady. Grosberg is assistant in chemistry at Yale University. Houghton is teaching chemistry in Peddie Institute, Hightstown, N. J. Boyce is a sanitary en- gineer in Gloversville. Hughes, W. A., is with the General Electric Company in the Research Laboratory. Randles is doing preparatory school work in the Haverford, Pa., school. 'rhe index of the lectures and discussion work the society does is given by the fol- lowing list of papers. In the case of many of the papers the authors have been actually engaged in the work whereof they spoke: May 25, 1914-\Strengthening of Asbes- tos Tape and Synthetic Mica,\ W. A. Mudge, '14. November 2, 1914-\Illuminating Gas,\ R. S. Blodgett, '15. November 18, 1914-\Cement F. S. Ran- dles, '15. November 30, 1914-\Sewage Disposal,\ D. J. Beaver '15. December 14, 1914-\Pure Food Legisla- tion,\ P!ro£. W. C. Vosburgh '14. January 2, 1915-\ Aluminum and the Massena Hydroelectric Works with Some Remarks on Steam Gauging by Mohr's Chloride Titiation Method,\ Prof. A. ]. Salathe. ., Febt A. HUJ Feb1 Lowe I: Mar eral R~ Mar ducts,' .Apri \Tan V May '16. ( Nov sian c burgh Dec . \ . tles, . Dec Proce: Jan ducts, \i\lher An~ Whet An \Vhet Bu· YVhe1 An ~vVhe: Ju~ Whe Ar Take w Whc Tt

1 ' t¥ f . ·.~ . ··;;f: ... ,:~ . ,''t . . . ., ·'1-' ·-.;::; ' -·'''\ :~:; THE c·oNCORDIENSIS. 19 February 1, 1915-\Storage Batteries,'' W. A. Hughes '15 . February 15, 1915-\Beet Sugar,\ C. D . Lowell '16 . March 1, 1915-\0ur Chemical and Min- eral Resources,\ C. Stoller '16. March 29, 1915-· \Petroleum and Its Pro- ducts,\ E. B. Houghton '15. .April 12, 1 915-· \Natural Yilicates,\ L. S. \Tan Wert '16. May 17, 1915-\Explosives R. L. Embree '16. (President-elect.) November 8, 1915-'~Time Rate of Diffu- sion of Salt Solutions,'' Prof. W. C. Vos·- burgh '14. Decen1.ber 6, 1915-\ Chemical Opportuni- ties,\ President C. D. Lowell '16. December 20, 1915-\Some Co1nn1ercial Processes,\ F. R. Elmo·re '17. January 10, 1916-~'Asbestos and its Pro- ducts,\ K. J. Baird '17. A BATCHELOR'S REVERIE. \i\lhen you tighten your clasp on a firm little hand And squeeze it with fervor suppressed; When you whisper sweet nothings in pink little ear, And let her in1agine the rest. \Vhen you take her out walking, and say not a word, But hide all your thoughts in your glances; \¥hen you point with dumb show to the glittering sky, And you act like a fool in a trance; ~vVhen you go to your bed but of course not to sleep; Just to dream and dream of the girl; When your appetite's gone and you s1noke far too much And your head is all in a whirl ; Take a tip from a fellow who's been through the mill, Who's troubles have been just the same- Who's bald, fat and-sorry to this very day, That he didn't marry the dan1e ! Laahs Queyr. WALRATH HEADS BAND FOR COMING COLLEGE YEAR E. N. Jenki~s Elected Assistant Leader . ·Clough is President. CHARLIE MALE BACK IN TRACES Founder to Hielp Leaders During Spring Season. With the news of the awakening of the Dramatic Club con1es the glad tidings that the Union College Band is to have a new lease of life, and will again assume its form- er prestige in Union's activities ... At the election held Monday night the fol- lowing officers were elected to serve dur- ing the coming year: Leader, Leon J. W al- rath; assistant leader, E. N. Jenkins; presi- dent, Wilson 0. Clough ; secretary--treasur- er, Russell Hemphill; librarian, Edwin R. Wood. Charles Male, Union '13, who founded and directed the famous Union Band of that day, is at the head of the project to place the pres- ent band on a firm foundation. Mr.. Male is giving his personal attention to the direc- tion of the band, and firmly believes that the organization will soon be \bigger hrighter, and better than ever.\ The pros·· pects were never n1ore pleasing, as there is an abundance of material among the students which needs but interest and enthusiasm to bring to the fore. When one recalls that the original band grew from a group of but three men who had not had the slightest band experience, and then notices the fine gathering which assmbles at ·rehearsals to- day, a feeling of encouragement and satis- faction results. A band is the one factor needed to bring Union's many activities up to their highest efficiency. It is of the greatest importance that the band should play at campus gath- erings, since such music will add a zest to the occasion which nothing else can so well

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. do. The band will put spirit into the cheer- ing, and encourage the men playing the game to put their best into the work be- fore thetn. Also it will help greatly in show- ing visitors that Union is always progres- sively active in undergraduate accomplish- ments. One word remains to be said in connec- tion with this matter.. The band, like any other organization, will need the strong sup- port of the student body ,-not support fron1 a pecuniary standpoint, but from the stand- point of interest and personal activity. Any student \vho has the slightest imagination that he can play a band instrument, or has the desire to, should join the band and thus do his share in serving his Alma Mater. Band rehearsals are held in Silliman Hall every Monday evening, and at special times V\rhen needed. They are in charge of Mr. JV1ale, and any student wishing to offer his services will be welcomed. MODERN FAIRY TALES. VI. The Tale of the Debater. There once was a Debater-an intercolle- giate varsity debater, who was slated as first affirmative to uphold the honor of the dear old school in the most important. contest of the year. This is the way he began his argu- nlent: \Honorable Judges, Worthy Oppon- ents, Ladies and Gentlen1en : Although I arn supposed to uphold the affirn1ative of this question, a thorough study of it leads me to the conviction that the negative is the true position, and it would be in1n1oral for me to do anything but argue on the side of rny opponents.\ Yes he did! * * * * * VII. The Tale of the Junior. There once was a junior whose map was supposed to fill one-third of one page of the Garnet. \i\Then the time catne for the junior to hand his exploits, to announce his achieve- rnents to the world, he told his representa- tive this: ''Please don't print that I have played 'varsity football, or made the 1nusical clubs, or been the chairman of the Junior Prom committee. These are far, far too trivial. Just put in of me that I belong to the Classical Club.'' Ye·s he did! * * * * * VIII. The Tale of the Coach. At one of our leading smaller colleges, there was once a coach whose custom it was often to address the student-body as it as- sembled for its Monday meeting. He made this speech : \Now fellows, I don't want to hear any cheering next Saturday night-not a single word. It ruffles· the fellows, makes them nervous, slows up their footwork, and causes cerebro-spinal meningitis.\ And througp.out the year he n1ade frequent speeches not using the tern1 ''Guts\ once. Yes he did! * * * * * IX. The Tale of the Dutiful Son. There once was a dutiful son vvho received a weekly check from father of amazing pro- portions. At len_gth his bank balance grew so atnazingly large that he was forced to telegraph home: \Bank filled to overflowing. Can't use another cent. Don't send allow- ance for a month. Friends paying back all they borrowed.\ Yes he did! * * * * * X. The Tale of the Doting Father. A Sequel to IX. There once was a father who, upon re- ceipt of a telegram such as we have describ- ed above, wrote to his son: \Dear Boy: I must insist on continuing your allowance. I tnean that you should school yourself to handling large sums. I shall be very disap- pointed if you have anything saved at the end of the year. Please go broke, and oblige your loving father.\ Yes he did! -HOOSIT. (To be Continued.) - V1 Ml J r.:

When you want anything at QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Quinn Delivers Free With Hasty Messengers Geo. A. Cassedy Co. Established 1850 Dealers in VICTROLAS, PIANOS, SHEET MUSIC & MUSICAL MERCHANDISE 464-466 State Street, Schenectady, New York. Wally Girting Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Section South College Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all Kinds of Wax Polishes 212 SO. CENTRE ST. 8t .. 4)_1 Br; . eeaea__ o& I ALBANY, N.Y. This is a \1 00 Point\ Clothing Store Some years ago, Elbert Hubbard II achieved additional distinction, through the use of the phrase \100 Point Men.\ By the same token you will find this a \100 Point\ clothing store. Being a ''100 Point\ store, means being your kind of store, supplying your kind of service, giving your type of value* giving you the best of it in every way. But why accept statements when you see facts-see the clothes, test the service, try the values-you will agree that this is a \100 Point\ store. Spring Suits $10.00 to $45.00 JOE. NUSBAUM Schenectady's Leading HATTER AND HABERDASHER 336 STATE STREET. Sure fit $4to$8 Hanan $7&$8 -Smartl.1J St,yled -Pnfect Workmanship :.VIost men, esoecially young men, buy their SHOES for style and quality-not for cheapness. That's why we have always insisted \. .. smartness of desig·n and worthiness of workmanship ~rather than mere lowness of price in our Shoes for Men. Patton & Hall SCHENEUI'ADY & SARATOGA. --------------------------------~----------------~------------

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS. COLLEGE MEN AND BUSINESS. After many gibing years the young col- lege man is about to come into his own. It is begirining to be recognized that he really has some added value, because of his college training, for a career in the workaday world. 'fhe announcement of the P1resident of the .American International Corporation that that organization purposes to recruit what ·will eventually becon1e an army of en1ployees largely from among young college graduates and train them for its use in foreign coun- tries is the most important of a number of re<;ent indications that the current is turing ~quarely in that direction. Very largely the tradition that recent college graduates are of less value in business life than young men 'Nho have had no college experience has owed much of its strength to its musty age. Perhaps the business world is just begin- ning to catch up with the facts in the case. Perhaps also the more practical trend of col- ~ege curricula nowadays has had something to do with the changing attitude of business men, while the imn1ensely increased percent- age of graduating classes looking forward to business as a profession has also had its influence. * * *-New York Times. THE KISS All day the clouds have hovered low, And poured their floods upon the earth, Yet in my face fair love beams glow, And in my heart sings tuneful mirth. For what b1eak clouds or chilling rain Could kill my joy and give me pain, \Vhen 011 my lips in fancy bright I feel the kiss I'll get tonight? ·Through valleys wide o'er rivers deep, Past stately towns and humble homes, My journey onwards do I keep, Until from out the twilight co1nes ·:rhe grandest vision earth contains; My sweetheart waits-looks through the panes, As angels peer from realms of light To give the kiss I'll get tonight. So may it be in years unborn, When life's clouds gather, hopes descend; That peace will my worn brow adorn And love strength to my weakness lend. For, though each day brings bitter woes, My soul will cling until its close, Sweetheart, your love puts cares to flight God bless the kiss I'll get tonight! STAR ALLEYS Ideal Lighting Good Ventilation BOWLING and BILLIARDS Phone 3954 506 STATE STREET GREEN AND GRAY Phone 844 NIGHT AND DAY \ Green Taxi Service Co. ' I: ':} i ! - field, moto ''T ( Phon1

,, ., ' I: ':} i ! - Henderson Motorcycles 1916 Models There is no longer any question as to the leader· ship of fouracylinder design. The experience of riders all over the world in recent years has settled definitely the greater efficiency of the multi-cy Iinder . .... _ . motor for every purpose. As the \six\ and the \eight\ are taking first place in the automobile field, so the four-cylipder is superseding the old-style \twin\ in the most advanced motorcycle construction. L. F. BURKE, Boston Sq., 230 So. Center Street Excelsior 17-3 Model Bicycles \The College Photographer\ GARNET 19(}3 1900 1004 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 Wt2 1907 1913 1908 1914 E. W. MANDEVIU.~. '17 Colle~e Repret~entahwe NEAR BARNEY'S 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie!:s insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ ~ © a~AAOW COLLAR Shows over the coot in back ; low sharp, smart curveaway front; good knot and slide space ~for25c OLUETT, PEABODY A CO., Inc., Makers. TROY, N.Y. CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

Spring Spring Hats Shirts Spring Clothes This way, please, if you desire the . Newest and Best in Spring Outfitting! At this Good Clothes Store you get all the style, the Finest Tailoring and the Choicest Fabrics··· The Distinctive Models that are Shown in this Store Exclusively. Spring Suits Spring Coats Come I.n, Look Them Over DU HTD 455 STATE STREET The Store That Creates---But Never Imitates Scben·ectady ~ Art Press -

e CONCORDIENSIS VOLUME 39 APRIL zo, 1916 NO. 22 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

UNION UNIVERSI CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D~, LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE The ·eoUege offers the following undergraduate uti graduate courses : 1. Veur•e• leadlnc to the degree of A.. B. CussiCAL CouRSS A.-Greek is required for ad- lftission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B-This course may be pur- sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. s. Vonr•e leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTiltiC CouRsE-This course offers ~atin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Oourse leading to the degree of B. S. ScntNTIPIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the atu.dy of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Cour•e leading to the degree of B. E. OaN!tRAL EN GINgERING CouRsE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, cemprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and medern languages. SANITARY ENGIN£gRrNG CouRSE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. Et,EC'tRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. I. Oour•e• lea4lng to graduate degree•. CouRsE LEADING To DEGREE or M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING TO DltGRES or M. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. COURSE LEADING 'tO DEGREE OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y ·L. V. Herrington Groceries, ·r obacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925 .. W ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 183~A complete reorganiza tiol} has been effected dunng the past year. Largely tncreased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate respon\Sibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate fr-om the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one yea.r's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physic-s, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y .• has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. . 1 The a.cademic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All m- quiries and other communications should be ad- dressed to THOMAS ORDWAY, M.D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL- This department of the uni\ersity is located at Albany, near the st~te capitol. It occupies a building whotly devoted to tts use. Tile course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is. divided into two ~e.mesten. Expenses : Matriculation fee, $to; tultton fee, $I to. Fol' catalogue or other in formation, address: JoaN C. WA'tSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHAR11.A.CY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. ·Fees, $go.oo per term. For c~talogue giving full information, address: ALJi'RtD E. Hu\.ES'tED Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 2 5o a DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS ,COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate f VOL. MISS Metro Will r Son York inent Kahn, PerkiJ pare <J tercen that i1 ropoli music and tl . 1m per Aft the c< ern or be gi, the cc it wil lege i Grac( l\lav

The Concordiensis VOL. 39 APRIL 20, 1916 NO. 22 MISS HOFFMAN WILL SING AT SHAKESPEARE CONCERT Metropolitan Opera Co. Feature of Tercen- tenary Celebration. BISPHAM TO APPEAR. Will Impersonate \Mid-Summer Night's Dream \-Opera Co. to Sing Men- delssohn's Music of Play. Some weeks ago Mayor Mitchel of New York City appointed a committee of prom- inent and influential citizens, such as Otto Kahn, Cleaveland H. Dodge, George W. Perkins and Mrs. Edward Harriman to pre- pare a fitting celebration of the Shakespeare tercentenary. The committee now reports that it has secured the orchestra of the Met- ropolitan Opera Co. to give Mendelssohn's music of the \Mid-Su1nmer Night's Dream\ and the celebrated artist, David Bispham, to . Impersonate the play. After ten concerts in Greater New Y ark, the con1pany, at the suggestion of the Gov- ernor, will tour the state. Two concerts will be given in Albany and two in Troy. Then ~he company will come to Schenectady where It will appear under the auspices of the col- lege in the new gymnasium, assisted by Miss Grace Hoffn1an, soprano, Monday evening, l\'1 ay 1st. Miss Hoffman is the soloist at the Strand Theater in New Y ark, where, ac- . cording to the New York Times, the aver- age daily attendance for the past year has been over twelve thousand five hundred per- sons. This will be a subscription concert. The pTices of the seats are $1.00, $1.50 and $2.00. As long as the tickets hold out any person can secure seats by sending a postal to Prof. F. S. Hoffman, Union College, stating the number wanted and the price desired. IDOL CLUB DANCE IS BRILLIANT SUCCESS New Sophomore Society Make·s Notable Social Debut. The Idol Club, the new sophomore so- ciety, made its social debut Saturday night in the form of a most delightful dance. About forty couples journeyed out to the Loco- lnotive Club and danced to the super-music by O'Neil's orcehstra. The patronesses were Mrs. D. W. \Veed of Ballston and Mrs. E. R. Cullings of this city. Many out-of-town girls were present besides a large number of girls from Schenectady. The affair was vote a huge success and the club intends to hold another dance during the baseball sea- son. The con1mittee in charge consisted of Towne, Beckett, Brown, Dorlon and H uls- hizer.

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. NEW PATRIOTIC SPIRIT EVIDENT IN WASHINGTON SAYS DR .. RICHMOND Finds War Danger is Raising a New Patriotism. CAPITOL ALUMNI AC'TIVE. Keenly Interested in and Well Informed of Unio-n As She is Today. We were all glad to have Dr. Richmond back again after a trip which took him as far south as Washington, and we were all glad to hear what he had to tell us of it last Monday after chapel. He spoke first of the enthusiastic meeting of about forty Union men which was held in the national capital. Seven years ago these gatherings were small and not especially encouraging, but now they are interesting and show that our Washington al u1nni keep in touch with us. Among other prominent men present was Senator Ransdell '82 who, during his student days here, revived an organization resembling Congress and who as the Sena ... tor from Louisiana proposed a bill to dam a certain river at its source. His hope was fulfilled, for he went to Congress and, as his first bill, actually proposed that the same river be dam1ned. Patriotism, however, was the keynote of Dr. Richmond's short talk. He said that on this . trip he saw many important men, among then1 Justice Hughes, and that they all felt that there must be a revival of re- spect for the flag, which means a responsi- bility of service and a willingness to ·rend- er service at all times. So1ne of the speeches at the convention of the Navy League show- ed that our state of preparedness is not as high as is co1nmonly supposed from su~h re- ports as those on naval gunnery averages. We should develop,-and this should he done especially among young men,---a feel- ing of patriotism which will operate in our private thought and activities. Speaking editorially of the Challenge, the new intercollegiate magazine, The New York Times says in part : They are not \radical they say. Of course they are not. Students, collectively, are conservatives, chil- dren, savages, in their compliance with college tradition, ritual, taboo. And there can be nothing \radical\ in opinions that have no root, that are but the echo of woman's clubs and \forums\ and ferryboat wis- dom and the intellectual diversions of commuters waiting for a train. As yet no gift of paradox or bril- liancy of style has been revealed by the Morningside magazinists. The Times wishes prosperity and good taste to their venture, which does at least the service of showing that the college is just as commonplace in its attempts to escape the cotnmonplace as the unsheep-skinned outside. NEW OFFICERS ARE ELECTED AT CHEMICAL SOCIETY MEETING. Monday evening, April17, the Union Col- lege Chemical Society elected officers for the year as follows: President, Frank Russell Elmore; vice-president, Kenneth El-vvood Baird; secretary, Homer Lucifer Stevens; treasurer, Earl Myron Hyatt; librarian, Louis Mann. There are but five more weeks before finals -four weeks before senior finals, which co1n~ mence on May 22. The exams for the re- n1ainder o(the college begin on Wednesday, May 31. Tuesday, May 30, will be Memor~ ial Day recess. Commencement will fall on the second Wednesday in June, the 14th. It SE tnoven should I cert<: indica1 lishing of defE future So thi~ tunity camps \To ftll the fl.cers of nati or fivE tion it troops \To am on~ knowl tcy, ar \'ro outdo< ciplinE the pr ness c fron1 t of the1 And tion: \Yo clesire1 colleg~ pondi1 ing gi coveri as po~ an ofi 1ni nd. has sl the fir

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 ''FORWARD MARCH TO PLATTSBURGH\ by Ned Moore, Psi U House It seen1s a great pity if the Training Camp O vement which is now so well sta1\ted 111 should be practically stopped after this year. 1 certainly hope it will not, but the present indications in Congress point toward estab- lishing the Navy as the first and only line of defence; and under any circumstances the future of the Training Camp is uncertain. So this year is the time to grasp one's oppor- tunity and go. Note the objects of these camps: \To help equip properly qualified men to ftll the great deficiency in comn1issioned of-- ficers that would immediately arise in case of national en1ergency, by giving them four or five weeks of intensive military instruc-· tion in the field under officers, and with troops, of the Regular Army. \To foster a patriotic spirit and spread among the citizens of the country some knowledge of military history, military pol- icy, and military needs. \'ro instil in four or five weeks of heal thy outdoor life the habits of obedience, dis- cipline, command and self-control that are the prerequisites of efficiency in every busi- ness or profession, and to send men back fron1 the camps better prepared to take care of themselves and of others.\ And from General Wood's colnmunica- tion: \You will note, first, that applicants are clesired principally from those who have had college, university, high school (or corres- ponding school) education. * ** The train- lng given at these camps in very extensive, covering in a period of four weeks as much as possible of the fundamental education of an officer. This calls for a well-trained Jnind. In the second place, past experience has shown that this class of young men is the first to join the colors in titne of war and many of them regardless of their skill in military matters receive commissions. This hase been the procedure in times past. It is right and necessary that these young men should be fully informed as to the trem- endous responsibility which will co·me to them with the command of men and the ir- re·parable loss which may be caused by un- skilled leadership. \Attendance at the camp will not increase either the legal or moral obligation of those who attend. The intention is merely to equip those taking the course of training to fulfil with more efficiency and usefulness obliga- tions which are already laid upon them as citizens of the United States.\ * * * * * If you like to shoot; if you like to live out of doors; if you like to be mixed up in a co1n- n1on purpose with a lot of n1en, a variety of interests in private life; if you're fond of ex·- ercise and \tea1n work;\ if you like to swi1n ~Plattsburg is the place to go this summer. * * * * * Is there anything more pleasant than to lie sprawled out on your back in the open after a good day's work is over, and watch the golden sun slip behind the horizon while the silve·ry notes of the bugles float through the satne air that wafts the savor frotn the cook tents to your inner consciousness? \Hay Eddie,\ you say; yet if you are capa- ble of such experiences, go up to Plattsburg and see if I'm not right. * * * * * How do you like the old ca1np-fire yarns after an hour or so of close-harmany agoniz- ing? Does it sound good to you? If not, does the prospect of a lively \twitch\ over a g 1 assy ballroom floor appeal? They're both there, in the evening, if you don't want to go to bed. * * * * * rrhis week's colun1n is the Bull Nun1- ber--it's good stuff, though, and all truthful and based on fact. Next week there'll be a fe'\\. 7 facts about this year's attendants.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. VARSITY NINE LEAVES TONIGHT FOR 3-GAME TRIP TO NEW YORK. Crescent A. C., Columbia and Princeton Will Be. Met. SQUAD IN GOOD SHAPE. Though Inclement Weather Has Hindered, Pre-Season Practice Bore Good Fruit. At last the real baseball season has begun, for today the teams starts on a trip which will include a game with the Crescent Ath- letic Club on Saturday, April 22, with Columbia on Monday, and with Princeton on Wednesday. Whatever the team does, our hearts are with them. We have not seen the boys play, except in a few short practice games but, whatever their oppon- . ents prove to be, we know that this Union team, as our teams have ever done, will represent us well. The weather has been so inclement that, when the Concordiensis went to print, the varsity nine had not yet been selected. Not only was it late before the squad could get out doors, but, also, the practice even then was on the rough, irregular N ott Street diamond. Although undoubtedly there are other good men who have not yet been able, on account of the small nun1ber of practices, to show themselves to be of varsity calibre, the following have proved themselves such : Pitchers-Hummer (Captain), Jenkins, G-off, Goodman, Knight. Catchers-Roof, Greene, Beyerl. First base-Steele, Galbraith. Second base-Rosekranz, Friday. Short Stop-Hathaway, May. Third base-Moynihan, Collison. Fielders-Zimmer, Travis, Powell, Greene, (also catcher), Roof (also catcher). \Jenks\ has had a great deal of trouble with his ears and, therefore, was not able to report for several days, but last Monday he was out again. With all probability he wil~ make the t:i p an.d do the star pi tchiug whtch charactertzes hts games. If not, Cap~ tain Hummer and some of the other pitchers will pull things through in the way \Gene\ has done so often. ~\fhe te~m is to leave here at about eight o'clock tonight for Albany. From there they will take the boat to New York where they will stay at the Crescent Athletic Club. Fri- day will be a day of rest and light practice in preparation for the game with the Cres- cent Athletic Club on Saturday. Monday they play Columbia and, after a light practice on Tuesday, they will go on Wednesday to Princeton. About midnight on Wednesday ·,he team will reach Schenectady, we hope. :oyful and victorious. FACULTY MEMBERS ARE CO-AUTHORS OF TEXT-BOOK. Dr. Ernst J. Berg and Prof. W. L. Upson Complete First of Two- Volume Set. Dr. Ernst J. Berg and Professor Walter L. Upson of the faculty of Union College have recently written a text book on Electrical Engineering, which went on sale about two weeks ago. This is the first of a set of two volumes and is intended for the use of juniors and seniors in engineering courses. The second volume, which is an advanced course, is about ready to go to press. The books are based on the lecture courses which have been given to students for the past eight ye~rs. The authors declare that the books are intended as a means of direct- ing the student's effort towards comprehen- sion. The books, they say, should be so con- structed and used that they shall be an ad- ditional aid to the student in creating his own expression of the ideas with which he is brought into contact in the lecture, the recitation, and the laboratory. In the pres- ent volume, the purpose of the authors has been to maintain a harmonious interrelation- ship between the book and the class roorn. ·~· ;. ; ' ·~ •. ' ' 'J . ' '' I I ., I 'I THRl SA Evan~ :NOW \We At Dr. V gelisf in thi starte to-da: ber o find c popul 1n an inche WISe, fer en ficial, ard o ough· or an stand ins tit tions stan( life i: havir an o1 life. eithe life a musi stan< that knov life, shou sehr( real

-~- ;. ; ' ·~ •. ' ' 'J . ' '' I I ., I 'I THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 THREE STANDARDS IN LIFE, SAYS DR. WEBSTER IN VESPERS. Evangelist Speaks Before Small Number in Chapel. :NOW AT FIRST BAPTIST CHURCH \We Must Believe That Man Is God's Highest Creation.\ At the vesper service Sunday afternoon Dr. Webster, who is now .conducting evan- gelistic services at the First Baptist Church in this city, was the speaker. Dr. Webster started his talk by stating that in England to-day, if one should inquire as to the num- ber of cubic inches in a gallon, he would find out that there are 231 cubic inches in a popular standard gallon, 224 cubic inches in an official standard gallon, and 277 cubic inches in an imperial standard gallon. Like- wise, says Dr. Webster, there are three dif- ferent standards in life, the popular, the of- ficial, and the imperial. The popular stand- ard of life is the opinion of what a man's life ought to be. This varies greatly. A man or an institution who conforms to the popular ~ta~dar? is the popular man or the popular l~shtuhon So we have people and institu- tions who cater to popularity. As with the standard of gallons, the official standard of life .is lower than the popular. For it is by hav1ng a popular standard that is higher than ~n official standard that we get our rise in h.fe. The imperial standard is higher than e.tther the other two. It is God's will. It is hfe at its best. To attain this standard, we must have a belief in God, a belief in a standard authority, and a belief in the fact that man is God's highest creation. We I:now that God has a plan in every man's hfe, and that He intends that these plans should be carried out. We should ask our- selves if we are successful in life. What is real success? We find that real success is reached only when we have found God's plan and have fulfilled it. This does not necessarily have to be a big duty, but may be only a small matter, hut if we do it, we will be successful. If we are to make life's voy- age a success, we must get our compass trained on Jesus, and in the end we will be rewarded by hearing God's words: \Well done, thou good and faithful servant.\ Dr. Websbter spoke in the place of the Rev. R. C. Penney, who was to give the talk at this service. He is conducting evangel- istic services at the Rev. Mr. Penney's Church, so Mr. Penney brought him to to talk to us in his place. There were only about twenty-five present but all declared the talk to be interesting and worth-while. +++++++++++++++++++ + + +t• H. ESMOND AND PLATTSBURG. + + + +++++++++++++++++++ We see ourselves next September walking across the campus and spying a familiar figure. The following conversation ensues (with due apologies to page 68 of the Every- rnan edition of H. Esmond): \How are you, Spike, old top? Have a good time at Plattsburgh?\ \My nan1e is Hale, sir,\ says the soldier. \I may be Spike for my friends, but I don't name gentlemen of your cloth amongst them.\ \Well then, Hale.\ \Mr. Hale, sir, if you please. When you address a gentleman of His Excellency Presi- dent Wilson's Plattsburg Guards, be pleased not to be so familiar.\ \I didn't know, sir.\ \How should you? I take it you are not accustomed to meet with gentlemen.\ There will be no issue of The Concordy next week.

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIEN·SIS A Literary and News Weekly Publi-shed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., a-s Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Ra.Jph Knight------------ Psi Upsilon Hou.ge MANAGING EDITOR. Fawcett W. Porter '17 ----------- Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR. William C. Loughlin '17, Phi Gamma Delta House LITERARY EDITOR David F. Chapman '17 --------- Delta Phi House ASST. LITERARY EDITOR Rudolph W. Schwartz '17 ---- 37 Glenwood Blvd ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. G. CareyJ Jr., '18 E L. Newell '18 F. G. Bascom '18 S W. Talbot '18 H. L. Cook '18 REPORTORIAL STAFF. H. H: Newton '19 Adam Bailey '19 G D. Rosenthal '19 W. R. Barnett '19 C A. Brind, Jr., '19 A. B. Dougal '19 E. ]. Griswold '19 K. H. Gorham '19 V. H. Scales '19 Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscripuon: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. iEilitnrala The faculty has 1nade a plea to the trustees of the college for a universal increase in salary. We do not feel that it is any of our business to offer opinion one way or the other a-s to how much our instructors are worth in dollars and cents, though vve do in a round-about way pay a portion of their salaries. It is entirely up to the trustees to weigh out the gold. Without encroaching, how- ever, we. feel that it is pertinently our right to be: candid in expressing our opinion of how well they are doing their work and in airing our ideas of how we believe they could do it better. If one could measure out knowledge in a pail, certainly Union could hold her head high when the World's Aln1anac, for instance, should co1ne out with a con1parative table of the an1ounts which flew frotn faculties to stu~ents in the different Ameri- can colleges during the preceding year. We can see something vastly more important than cosines and French verbs which should. come to the -student in four years at college-the formation of character-and here, too, the World's Almanac would say that Union doled out as many and as brimming pailsful as anyone else. The credit would be the faculty~s, for, we believe, the real teacher is also the builder of character. Yes, our teachers would fair very well in the Test of the Pails; in the pennant race, they would be a first division club, but why be content with that- why not crowd in a few pounds more steam that the other clubs are using and boost Union well up above everyone? There's a grand, good way of doing it. To the members of the faculty it means that they must stir up a little more interest in their jobs, and take it upon them-selves to do a little extra work after the five o'clock whistle blows-a little work which the boss did not tell then1 to do. Such conduct, in the business world, brings increase in salary. The extra work might be called \personal contact.\ As far as the actual act of teaching goes, the professor's work ends five days out of six when the chapel bell rings and he tells the last class to go away; on the other day it ends when, among other bu>Siness in faculty meeting, a handful of students have been talked about pro and con and a half dozen co1n1nitteemen instructed to go a trifle farther towards drawing together the per- sonal gap between student and teacher. That the welfare of an individual student is discussed in faculty 1neeting is good; it is a step toward>S les- sening the gap. But even this slight demon- stration that the faculty is watching individuals must beat around Robin Hood's barn if it ever gets to the ears of these individual.g at all. And. in beating around the barn, all the \pro\ discus- sions are lost in the bushes. In the class-room, there in an awesome personal gulf -separating the freshman fron1 his instructor; the gulf withers away as the class advances in college until a half-hearted speaking acquaintance is reached in senior year with perhaps a dozen warm friend-ships sea ttered here and there. And the professors who boast these read friendships can do more to earn their salaries in twenty minutes behind pipes ' , .. . \ ,, l 1 ·} than tl are nc does t other ~ is apt- that-1 believt busine If tl we we in sev our w profes ply a sit do· gettin: strang more tobacc along carne And v with t would least, be int or wl: drama next 1 so mer low a him i whetb the d: the s1 minut that, : some perm, Of a 'Hu glad but t That cours llndet

' , .. ,;. .; .. , . ,._; ~ i . ' ,, l 1 ·} THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 than they could in three hour'S behind desks. We are not, mind you, w-eeping because our faculty does not do as much for us as the faculties of other colleges do for their proteges-and proteges is apt-but asking that they do a little more than that-that they do a triHe more, perhaps than they believe their jobs call for. Such conduct, in the busineoSS world, brings increase in salary. If there be such a thing as a college millenum we would feel that it was rushing down upon us in seven league boots should we be standing at our window som·e day and, instead of seeing a profes.gor in one of our courses walk by with sim- ply a nod of recognition, have him come in and sit down withJ \Well how's the work coming- getting along pretty well?\ We would be a strange person indeed if we did not meet him more than half way-with a nod towards the tobacco jar and aJ \Well yes, guess I'm coming along all right, but say, here's something that carne up the other day that I didn't quite-.\ And when he had smoothed over the rough spot with the dioSpatch with which he could do it, there would be other things to fill what would to us, at least, be a pleasant half hour. He might possibly be interested in the ball game of the day before or what's-his-name's lecture or the revival of dramatics or the last bill at Proctor's. And the next time we saw him in claoSs room, he would somehow seem changed; he would be a good fel- low as well as a good teacher, and we would call him in the next time he went by th~ window, whether it was a cry for help on the lesson of the day or on the chasing between two jobs for th~ summer or the pleasant passing of twenty n1lnutes before class. And it's perfectly possible that, at sotne time, he might steer our course in some doings or other in a way that we would find permanently to our good in later life. Of course, you of the faculty will read this with a 'Humph! That'~ all too good to be true. I'd be o'lad t d · o o rop 1n on >Some of them now and then but they d 't . · ' on expect 1t and wouldn't want it.\ That is t no so. Oh, we wouldn't relish, of course, finding a bundle of calling cards thrust under our door every time we came back from down-town and having our room bulging out every other hour with a crowd of faculty mem- bers who were out making the rounds, hut we would relish occasional visit>S, unexpected or not, from some of the professors whose interest, oScholasticaHy or otherwise, run in somewhat the same channel'S as our own. We would not think it necessary that the professor should aim tow- ards personal friendship with each student in col- lege, nor even all that are in his courses, but rather with a limited number which he believes pensonal contact with would be helpful and which would respond to his advances-and he would find that there were few that would not. When one speaks of Yale men, one naturally think of then1 as having possession in their character a plentiful measure of bull-dog stick- to-it-ivenes.g-a trait which has been ground into their system by Yale as a college. Though not quite a parallel case, perhaps, would it not be a fine thing if Union were to stand some day for the, development of noble character above all else through the close relationship between student and teacher? It all dips a little more towards the ideal than toward'S the practical but, if taken up n1ore or less conservatively as we suggest, it cannot meet with rebuff and would without a doubt do a world of good. We are absolutely certain that the students would more than meet the faculty half way in this thing. In our last issue, we plead editorially for communications from student and alumnus on the proposed change in form and issue of THE CONCORDY. Is their interest in CONCORDY to be measured directly or indirectly in var- iance to their response?

16 ·THE CONCORDIENSIS. ++++++++++++++++++++ + + tt• THE FORUM. + + + + This column does not necessarily express (+ ~ .. the sentiments of the editors of THE CON- + ~+ CORDIENSIS. We heartily welco-me com- + tt+ munications from alumni and undergrad- + •lt uate'S but, in doing so, reserve the right of + --t• selection and deletion. + + + ++++++++++++++++++++ A PRACTICAL SUGGESTION. Editor Concordy: At the Concordiensis banquet, a few weeks ago, Dr. Berg gave an address on H Concentration\ and re- 111arked that \attention to lectu1\es\ was a fine practice on \concentra- tion.\ If \attention to lectures\ will do us the good outlined by Dr. Berg, why not have something on the fol- lowing plan. In the English class, let the instructor read an article or part of a the1ne of son1e kind or other, require the students to take notes, and to write say half a page or so f·rom their notes, to deliver to the instructor at the next Eng- lish class. In this n1anner, Dr. Berg's idea of \concentration\ could easily be carried out, and practice afforded in \paying attention\ and \note- taking.\ G. D. R '19. · THE ENGLISH OF IT. (From The Spectator of March 18, 1916.) \All are invited to attend these Quiet Jiours of Prayer and Meditation in the midst of war's anxieties and turmoil, and after- \rVard s to take a cup of tea at 5 o'clock with the Church Anny Staff at the headquarters close by.\ ••••••••••••••••••• + • + TWO HATES WITH BUTA + +t• SINGLE- + + (The Authors Forget to Apologize to + The Conning Tower.) ••••••••••••••••••• * * * * * That brook that bounds through Union's grounds, I love it, With gently, gushing, gurgling sounds I love it. In summer, trickling, aln1ost dry, In spring, mad, rushing, foaming high, It's better than anything cash can buy, I loveit. * * * * * The freshman hat I have to wear, I hate it. It draws attention everywhere, I hate it. It's hideous, flaming red and green, Puts vivid colors on my bean, 1 t's the worst darn hat I've ever seen, I hate it. * * * * * That \stick\ exam for bone-head studes, I loathe it. It fear and melancholy broods I loathe it. It worries me both night and day, In thought and drean1 it still holds s'¥ay, \i\Tith all my heart, je repetais I loathe it. The·re are 974 students in Union Univer- ~.ity. The college claims 494 of this total; there are 143 medics, 231 in the Law School and 106 in the Co lege o£ Pharmacy. The jewel of the program, which stan1ped Tv.Iiss Case as a true artiste, vvas: \Thy Hidden Germs are Rich Beyond All ·J\Ieas- ure.\-The Dayton (0.) Journal. We alway~ alway~ ory of we ch< our d: refer t ered c Wh( strikin gtves nouno upon 1:: mon e thew< Onac memo: Of C01 fore b1 vitally withi11 1nent, Our ness?' failun lack o what~ degre€ proac1 had VI that tl degre~ perso1 perso1 vve w: at an; . enng dividt takes all an upon Sot stronl glanc perce·

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 17 i'Gnut uuh iSUubnt.a.a We think it safe to say that love has always been linked with blindness. We say always because, at the present day, the mem- ory of man runeth not_ to the contrary and we choose to accept the memory of man as our datum plane back to which we will refer the impressions which we have gath- ered concerning this particular subject. Whenever, for some unknown reason, a strikingly handsome specimen of manhood gives his heart to some lady who is pro- nounced homely by ahnost all who look upon her, or when the opposite and less cotn- mon event takes place, we invariably hear the word whispered about, \Love is blind.\ On a certain occasion which sticks fast in our memory this thought was expressed to us. Of course we had heard it n1any times be- fore but ip this particular case we were most vitally interested and saw fit to question, within our own mind, the truth of this state- lnent, \Love is blind.\ Our first question was, \What is blind- ness?\ and the corresponding answer, \A failure to be able to pereive beauty or the lack of it in any object or individual.\ But what do we mean by beauty? Beauty means degree of perfection. The nearer a thing ap- proaches the perfect idea which the Creator had when making it, the more beautiful is that thing. Hence, we repeat, beauty means degree of perfection. The more perfect a person or thing is, the more beautiful is that person or thing. Taking beauty in this sense vve will quickly reason that a casual glance at anyone is not enough to warrant our rend- ering a final report upon this particular in- dividual's beauty or degree of perfection. It takes a careful study of any object, most of all an animate being, to warrant our passing upon its beauty or lack of beauty. Sometimes we see a man who is tall and strong but whose countenance, at first glance does not impress us as having any perceptible degree of beauty. But let us look at this individual mote closely. We meet him face to face, converse with him, our eyes meet, he smiles and then we notic~ a spark deep down in the dull gray whtch awakens us and we remark to ourselves, \This man is strangely handsomel\ We find an inexplicable beauty deeply hidden beneath an outward ·roughness and the long- er we study our subject the more we feel inclined to regard him as a truly handsome man. It is a so.rt of beauty which we can- tlot explain in words because of the strange path by which it finds its way through the organs of our perception. This makes it all the dearer, however, for does not Emerson truly say, \A beauty not explicable is dearer than a beauty which we can see to the bot- tom of?\ Suppose we consider a woman now-a certain one with whom we are very well acquainted. She is small, has medium, brown hair, which is not extretnely abund- ant, small blue eyes, a nicely curved little mouth, a nose rather too stubby to be called beautiful, a few freckles on a rather light skin which has a most pleasing tint, cheek bones a little too high and a chin not quite as long as the average beauty would like to claim. The description does not bring be- fore you a beautiful woman but that is be- cause you have never seen her short brown hair dancing in the wind; you have never seen her small blue eyes twinkle with mis- chief; you have never seen that nice mouth in a delicate pout (in which position it most closely matches the little pug nose); you have never s.een the light tinted skin flush,. ed with excitement-you have never seen any of these things and so, from my de- scription, you are far from prone to accept the verdict of the many friends who pro- nounce her a beautiful woman. She has a beauty which we must study in order to see, a high degree of perfection which is seldorn noticed by one not well acquainted with her and a hidden loveliness \\vhich cap- tivates the heart of everyone who takes an

18 THE CONCORDIENSTS. interest in her. Would you say that every- one falls in love with her because all who meet her go blind or would it not sound 111ore plausible if we say that, after knowing her, one's eyes are opened to that which is truly beautiful and, after seeing this clearly and unmistakably, love inevitably follows? In other words, it is sight which leads love not blindne.ss ! So far we have dealt only with physical traits. Let us go deeper ; let us find the soul and study its perfection-it's beauty. Let us assume that a certain young lady is just out of her teens. Let us assume that she is not one of the kind with whom un- thinking men fall in love at first sight. Sup- pose we know her well and often chat with her. We find her ideals high, her motives lofty, her heart sympathetic, her will strong, her soul true, her manner of conversing most charming. We. find her full of life, full of spirit, full of hope, full of defiance, full of courage! Do we find her full of beauty? Cer- tainly we do! We find her much more beau- ti.ful than we find the wax-doll creature vvhose likeness might well adorn an art gal- lery but who sadly lacks the mental devel- opment which is the foundation of ambition, of spirit, of kindness, of truth, of hope and of courage. Is it not so? We cannot deny it! Hence, let us always think twice before we comment upon the blindness of a man vvho has chosen or is about to choose a so- called homely mate. It is not blindness in nine cases out of ten-it is depth of percep~ tion, clearness of insight; it is the very op- posite of blindness and, when we reason it out, we will usually say, \What a master mind he must have to be able to seek out for himself the traits of beauty which lie hidden from the ordinary man and are re- vealed only to those who are blessed with the keenest sight.\ Of course, dear reader, some people are blind and so1ne have eyes and see not, but let us not blame love for this. For, to truly love we must preceive per .. fection-· we must see beauty, and in order to do this we must have anything except blindness; we must see most clearly, we must perceive with the greatest degTee of accuracy. TRY-OUTS FOR SOPHOMORE .ORATORICAL CONTEST HELD. Eddy, Heatly, Leong and Poersch Chosen. Carey Alternate. The try-outs for the Sophomore Oratori- cal Contest, held Monday afternoon in the chapel, resulted in the selection of Eddy, Heatly, Leong and Poersch with Carey as alternate. The committee for selection was D·r. Chase, Dr. Fobbes, and Professor Upson. This year the four places on the stage were more eagerly sought for than ever before, as is shown by the fact that eighteen men tried out. The contest, therefore, gives every promise of being m.ost successful. CLIPPED FROM \THE CONNING TOWER.\ Now You Know What Becomes of Amherst Grads. Starting with a joint concert with the Union College clubs at Schenec- tady, the men visited Peekskill, N. Y., Erasmus Hall, Brooklyn, Tome School, Port Deposite, Md., Wash- ington, Philadelphia, Sing Sing P~rison, and finally Brooklyn. At every concert the clubs performed before large and enthusiastic au- diences, containing many alumni. '\rhe woman, pointing to a man who stood near, declared he had spoken to her and then had seized her y the adm TDmhoacysb -ff-standingx emf cmfwy.-The Terre Haute (Ind.) Star. .. : .. ~f rH: •l+ It is c: Tha \]y t No' He h< Tht Andl Th( \Vith Me And Up ~r- . t1e : Ro And w, Higb Di vve·· AE \Viti At Day w 1\nd G: \Ge· \i \Va: Ir

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 19 I It is an ancient Regular That stoppeth one of three, \]y thy long grey beard and feverish eye, Now wherefor stopp' st thou me?\ He holds him with his glittering eye- The wedding guest stood still, And listens like a three years' child ; The Regular hath his will. \V ith drutn and band the Rio Grande Merrily did we ford, And held review, a merry crew Upon the Mexican bord. II. ~\fhe sun came up upon the left, Round a5 the colonel's weskit, And shone full bright, and on the right Went down into the mesquit. Higher .. and higher every day, Distinctly Fehrenheit- vve· were pursuing Villa As day doth follow night. \Vi thout regard to Mercury, And snippish with Hygeiea, Day after day, day after day, We stuck, still chasing Villa. 1\nd ever more inadequate Grew food and sanitation- \ Get Villa\ all the colonel's roar, ,. \And settle up the ancient score,\ \V axing sore and yet more sore In fell exasperation; Villa, Villa, everywhere, And not a chance to find him ; Villa, Villa, everywhere- We fifty miles behind him ! III. The days and weeks grew into months, For years we had no ease, The years grew into decades, And then to centuries! The drummers grew to be old men, Haggard and without levity- The maj,ors died of sunstroke And the colonels of longevity. But still we hurried on as long As horse and man could stand it, Trailing ever through the brush That most elusive bandit. IV. At last, grey-haired and tottering I alone could pursue- \Vith sunken cheeks and listless air, A straddled on an ancient mare That was almost bent in two. Then one day, cantering, I beheld A Portent drawing near, \Vith whiskers weeping to the ground- It was Francisco Villa! ! vVith throat unslaked, with black lips baked, I, the last Regular, flew- When Villa with a glassy stare Shouted \I'm sick of this wear and tear !\ Pursued me with a pleading air, And, catching me by the snaky hair, Surrendered to me then and there Whereat with hallelujahs rare The last millen urn blew! M.G.

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. GARNET OF 1917 TO APPEAR MAY 1. Volume Will Have Many New Fe.ature:s. COLOR PLATES AND INSERTS. Special Illustrated Section Devoted to Campus Scenes From 1880 to Present. The Garnet of 191'1 has gone to press and V\ 7 i11 appear on May first strictly on schedule time. The nu1nber of extra copies this year has been limited to thi·rty. They will be placed on sale immediately on issue of the book and, owing to the restricted supply, it is of special import that would-be purchas- ers make their reservations at once. Mail orders are being received now by Business ivlanager Mandeville. An abundance of new features in this year's Garnet vv-ill perhaps make it one of the best of recent issue. The book will be of three hundred pages, not including special inserts which will number, among others, sepias of Professor March and Eliphalet N ott. New ideas in illustrative vein will as- sun~e the form of large fraternity group pic- tures and an extensive section given ove·r to individual snap-shots of men1bers of the 1917 class caught in every-day surroundings. The notable feature of the athletics section will be feature pages devoted to the season's formidable football team, including exhaus., tive vvrite-ups and individual photographs of n1any members of the squad. The department of art will keep abreast of the other sections in their progressiveness by introducing color plates done on Japanese paper, a new process which has, as yet been taken up by only the most advanced printing houses in the country. This is an entirely new departure for Union year books, and is con1mendable. The literary section will n1irror the real ability of Union writers better, probably, than any publication has previously done, an unwonted abundance of work having been submitted to the editors There will be stories, poems and humorou~ :Vhat-nots, all of which smack of college life tn general and Union life in particular. Perhap~ The G~rnet's most interesting feature th1s year wtll be a photographic sec- ~ion devoted to the campus as it appeared ~n about the year 1880, and in different per- lads subsequent to that time. Among other views will appear a panorama of the campus before any of the fraternity houses had been erected. The volume will be dressed in a heavy Garnet leather cover and will sell at $2.50. PROF. EVERETTS. LEE SPEAKS BEFORE CHEMISTS Gives Interesting Talk on \Electric Arcs\ THREE TYPES OF ARCS. Incandescent, Flame Arc, and Metallic Lamps Described. . P·ro£. E. S. Lee of the Electrical Engineer- Ing Department gave a delightful talk on \Electric Arcs\ before the members of the Chen:ical Society and in vi ted guests. Mr. l.fee 111 ustrated his lecture by experiments and graphs. An arc light will not burn when connected across the terminals of a genera- tor-there must be additional resistance in the circuit; this is shown clearly by the cur- rent--voltage curve. Our Schenectady lights are connected in series and we do not need ballast resistance as is the case with lamps connected in parallel. The Cathode seems to supply conducting material to form the arc. There are three types of arcs from stand- point of light emission. (1) All the light is caused by incandescence, the anode is white Continued on page 22 '! . '

' . ~ . ' When yo.u want anything at QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 ,Quinn Delivers Free With Hasty Messengers Geo. A. Cassedy Co. Established 1850 Dealers in VICTROLAS, PIANOS, SHEET MUSIC & MUSICAL MERCHANDISE 464-466 State Street, Schenectady, New York. Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Section South College Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all Kinds of Wax Polishes 212 SO. CENTRE ST. Steefel Brea. ALBANY, N. Y. Experience-not experiment is built into ,every suit of Steefel Clothes Every feature of style and of tailoring has been devel· oped according to the les- sons learned from more than 30 years of building real clothes for real men. Yet they cost no more than or- dinary clothes. JOE. NUSBAUM Schenectady's Leading HATTER AND HABERDASHER 336 STATE STREET. Sur I:;, fit $4to$8. Hanan $7&$8 -Srnarth; S(yled -Perfect Workman., hip Most men, especially young men, buy their SHOES for style and quality-not for cheapness. That's why we have always insisted '-._. smartness of design and worthiness of workmanship · .--rather than mere lowness of price in our Shoes for Men. Patton & Hall SCHENE·OTADY & SARATOGA.

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS. hot. An iHustration is the old-time carbon lamp. This is very inefficient-only about five per cent of the energy is converted in to light. Most of the energy here is converted into heat, and carbons had to be supplied each night on street lamps. Second type of arc is the \flame arc la1np.\ A central core in the anode is impregnated with calciu1n salts which make the arc luminescent. Electrodes are carbon, of course. In large units this lamp is very efficient in decorative lighting, in department stores, etc. (2) The thi·rd type is a metallic lamp. The cathode is n1ade of a material that is luminous when heated. This is the magnetic arc lamp. Oxides of iron and titanium are used. The anode is a block of copper. There are two types of this arc in town-the Great White Way 6.6 ampere and the 4.0 ampere cross street lamps. There are 1,034 a-rc lights in Schenectady on 14 circuits. Total lamp voltage is 92. This means that for 80 lamps in one circuit there are 7,000 volts direct current. Mercury arc rectifier is commonly used to change alternating cur-rent to direct in lighting engi- . neenng. +++++++++++++++++++ + + THE Y. M. C. A. ++++++++++++++++++~ A Call for Volunte·ers. Page 77, of the college catalogue, states that \Religious life among the students is cared for through the agency of the Union College Christian Association.\ If the As- sociation effectually cares for the religious life of the college, it must be up and doing. A prayer m.eeting now and then will not be enough. The Association, to do its work, 111 ust first be made up of st•rong men and plenty of them. It needs the best of the college, for it is an important factor of college life. It links the college with the city Y. M. C. A.-· with the churches of the city, and un- questionably with the interest of n)any good people, here and elsewhere. It also joins us with all other colleges, whose Associations are members of the International Y. M. C. A. movement. It is the wish of the officers and cabinet~ elect to make next year a live one for the As- sociation. We wish to get acquainted with the 1920 class, in1mediately, and to 1nake them feel our influence. We want to con- duct classes of freshmen, taking up text- books dealing with the problems of student- life. We expect to co-operate with the city Y. M. C. A. in thei·r work with the boys of the city. We desire to take up a kind of work which offers unlimited opportunities- the work with foreigners-forming classes with those who want to learn English. We would like to make vespers a bigger part of the life of the college, by securing speakers of talent .and experience-men whon~ the student-body can't afford to miss. But these activities and many others take 1nen. Four or five men can't handle it all. Therefore we send out a call for volunteers. We want at least fifty men to form a reserve force-a body of n1inute men, upon whom we can call, when we have need of them. If you can't teach classes of fresh1nen or boys at the city Y. M. C. A. you can be useful in some other way. If you are interested in the future efficiency of our Association, let us have your names. We will :find something for you do. Hugh J. Williams, or any mem- ber of the cabinet will be glad to have your name. GREEN AND GRAY Phone 844 NIGHT AND DAY Green Taxi Service Co. fielc roo· - ''1 E - Ph

' ·~ Henderson Motorcycles 1916 Models There is no lon~er any question as to the leader- ship of four-cylinder design. The experience of riders all over the world in recent years has settled definitely the greater efficiency of the multi-cylinder . ...___ ~ motor for every purpose. As the \six\ and the \eight\ are taking first place in the automobile field, so the four-cyli?der is superseding the old-style ''twin\ in the tnost advanced motorcycle construction. L. F. BURKE, Boston Sq., 230 So. Center Street Excelsior 17-3 Model Bicycles ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 V\lHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913. E. W. MANDEVILLE., '17 Collette Repre•t-ntat1ve NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wall ace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie!; insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ 9.forl3l5¢. As hby-'lYain. Lexicon-t;2~iJ1.. A'Jli.e new rl..RROW CO LLARspring style, in two heights CLUETT, PEABODY &CO.lNC.MAKtRS CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. \f./ e clean everything that needs clean- ing·-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co a 'Phone 4489 IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

Spring Spring Hats Shirts. Spring Clothes . This way, please, if you desire the Newest and Best ill Spring Outfitting! At this Good Clothes Store you get all the style, the Finest Tailoring and the Choicest Fabrics··· ~he Distinctive Models that are Shown in this Store Exclusively. Spring Suits Spring Coats Come In, Look Them Over HTD 455 STATE STREET The Store That Creates---But Never Imitates Schenectady ~ Art Press

