address on College the col- the col- .present under- Col- os- nt. ! ' t . '1 ! ! t f .'{ . 1 l ' . l ''r I I I c4 ~ ' ' . ' 'Battle of Music' To Feature· J urtior Prom, I Committee • Announces J 1-......- __ .. _______ J • • ------····-··-· Publications Board Elects New Senior Board For The I Concordiensis IP .. ..,_ __ D ____ SIID Vol. LVII., No. 4 18 UNION COLLEGE, SCHE~TECTADY, N. Y .. , FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS Com:mittee Suggest 6 Freshmen Sports Student Council Also Hears Professor C. Males' Report Dealing With College Band The committee on the restoration of a recognized Freshman sports· progre.m, appointed by the Student Council, recommended at a Council meeting Wednesday night tb.at a schedule of six sports be established at Union, namely: football, cross- country, basketball, hockey, base- Junior Board Named Anderson, Gilbert, Stevens()n, North and Trumbull Are Chosen Associate Editors Alexander and his orchestra have just ·finished a most successful tom or the South where they have been CI:..EMENS F. :aATHAWAY WILLIAM H. FITZGERALD . ball, and lacrosse. The committee Clemens F. Hathaway was elected editor-in-chief of The Concordien- sis at the meeting of the Publica- tions Board held Wednesday after- noon, to succeed George R. Cory, Jr., .to that position. William H . Fitzgerald was elected to succeed Arthur J. Katzberg as business ma- nager of the same publication. Other members of the new Senior Board are Donald B. Moulton, ma- naging editor, to succeed C. Wil- liam Huntley; Joseph A. Woolman, news editor, in place of Rober.t H . Smith; Milton A. Berger, sports ed- itor, succeeding Arnold J. Fried- man; and Thornton W. Whippie as cit·culation manager to succeed Morton C. Stewa.rt. All members of the new Senior Board of The Con- cordiensis are in the class of 1935. acclaimed as a t~uly gi:·eat orches- ----•o---- d tra. Musical ·critics throughout tht u n •. 0 n Del Fiv· e Men Awa· rde ::louth have •been unanimous in theil · · . · . ~~ ~~~s 0 ~o~~~ sc~~~~at~~!d~~.yt~x: Active in N. S. F. A. Scholarship Grants claim that h1s meteoric rise to fame is outshadowed only .by the come-. back of Glen Gray and his L;asa Lorna. Orchestra, two year ago while on tour. Organized while an undergraduate at t>ennsylvania, he has steadily risen until today he holds the distinction of bemg the only orchestra on record to have played two Junior Proms, an Ivy .~.>all, and: the Interfraternity B~l in two years, at the University of 1:-ennsylvania. Play£; Syracuse Prom Tonight While in the South, Alexander's music was featured at the Proms of the University of Virginia, Washington and Lee, and Roanoke College. Also he played the winter parties of Duke University. In De- cember he made his first trip into the north, playing at the Psi Upsi- lon House at Syracuse; the next week-end he was the headliner of (Continued on Page 5) ---o--- Conference Starts Action On Collegiate Activities and National Peace Propaganda One Post-graduate, Fom· Sen• iors to Study at Yale, M. I. T., Brown, Harvard Tufts Men and women representing Four undergraduates and one over twenty-five universities, col\ post-graduate have received various leges, and normal schools belong- with which to pursue their ing to the Middle Atlantic Region in graduate work at Brown, of the Student Federation of Am- Harvard, Tufts and Yale, it was. an- erica met last week at Barnard College In New York to discuss con\ nounced today by Dean Charles F. temperary campus problems and in- F. Garis. The recipients of the tercO'lleglate relations. Although awards are: Henry w. Tulloch, r_. they did not represent a member institution, the delegates sent by Reed Tripp, Harold E. Ellithorn., the Union Student Council, Daniel Charles S. Bridgeman, and Charles Flinn, '34, and Robert C. North, '36, L. Raymond. took an ac·tive part in the discus- Two of the students are candi- sions and kept careful notes cover- dates for honors in economics and ing any topics which might be of are Schenectady men. Henry w. interest to the Union Student body. Tulloch received the Braker Teach- Tuition Installments Students are reminded that the next · installment of tuition will be due on Monday April 16th Any checks mailed in pay- ment must be postmarked not later than midnight April 15th. \There will be no bills rendered, so i.f there is any question re- garding the amount due, stu- dents are requested to inquire at the Bursar's office at once. Any payments made after April 16th !J,re subjec;1t to a fine of $2.00. In- stallments for room rent ·are due at the same time. Larrabee Writes In 'Legion d'Honneur' Professor of Philosophy Has Article on Original Archi- tect of Union in Qual'terly Ellery Defends Student Freedom of Expression Union received favorable atten- ing Fellowship at Tufts College. He tlon from the conference on the will teach half time and do gradu- opening day when, during a discus- ate work half time in economic~! sion of student power in collegiate for two years. Tulloch was recently An article on the original archi- actlvities, one of the delegates out- elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He has teet of Union College, entitled lined the tax system put into written articles upon contemporary \America's First Unified College this year by the Student Council economic problems for The Con- ( Special to The Concordiensis) and explained the method used by cordiensis and was a member of the Plan: .Joseph Jacques Ramee, WASHINGTON, D. C., April 11- the tax committee to distribute Spanish Club during his freshman Architect\ !iJPpears in the April is- Dr. Edward Ellery, acting president student funds to different campus and sophomore years, the Psycho!- sue of \Legion d'Honneur,\ a quar- of Union College, tonight defended activities. The Union system ap- ogy Club and the Liberal Club, the right of students to express· parently combined the best features serving as secretary of the latter terly devoted to Franc{)-American themselves. freely in their publica- of every other tax plan expiained. organization last ·year. Amity, published by members of tions because only in this wa\ the Str d Intra ural A\''-' ti the Legion of Honor residing in J esse m ULUe cs Ellithorn to Study At Harvard the United States. It was written faculty become acquainted with the t modern student. In his address be- The prevailing atti ude toward Harold E. El!ithorn of Buffalo cby Professor Harold A. Larrabee of fore the Washing.ton Alumni Asso- sports, upheld by even so athletic has received a university scholar- Union In order to call to the atten- ciation of Union College he spoke an institution as Columbia, w~ to ship to do graduate work in elec- tion of ·persons interested in of the recent campaign by the Con- lay particular stress upon In rar trical engineering at Harvard. He Franco-American affairs the fact cordiensis, the undergraduate cam- mural activities in preference to en- expects to specialize. in electrical that, even ·before Jefferson had be- t U . h\ h larged varsity competition. The communi·cati\on· 1 ·n h!\s work f(}r the gun his similar plan at the Univer- pus newspaper a mon, w 1c car- f 1 - that th d ried on a campaign for some common ee mg was e ay dortora;te. Eilithorn was recently sity of Virginia, Ramee had orig- h . h . ul d f of gigantic stadiums, far-reaching honored by electi·on to Sigma x 1 ·, inated at Schenectady the scheme, <l__~:ggE!l;l m t .e currlC urn an ac- h dul d h b idi · - d h't ult-y during the past year. sa e es, an uge su s es IS national honorary scientific fra- now common In aca em!g a,rc l_ec- He maintained that \bottling up\ passing. Stronger emphasis· should ternity. He is the holder of the Buf- ture, of a central domed Pantheon st d t . uld . 1 th be placed in the future upon ath- falo Alumni' Scholarship and was fianked by symmetrical buildings . u e1;1 express10n wo · spm · e 1 t' f th · t' 1 b f ts th e 1cs or mr recrea 10na ene- the reci·p 1 ·ent of the Eta Kappa· Nu rubout a large court o honor. splendid tone that exis among e f't students when they are actively in- 1 s. Award in 1931. He also played This was a daring and \Ameri- teresrted in educaJtdonal matters. Complete freedom for the col- freshman football and basketball. can\ move, because up until that · They will all take office at once with .the exception of Fitzgerald who will assume his new duties in September. Five sophomores wer-e elected to to the Junior Board. They are John D. Anderson, Vedder M. Gilbert, Robert C. North, Ahbert H. Steven- son, and VanVechten Trumbull. further suggested that a minimum of three games be played in each sport, that such coaching as Is now available rut Union be utilized, thereby eliminating the need ·for additional coaches, that the stu- dents participating in each of these sports be eligible for numeral awards, and that this plan should be instituted for the year 1934-35 subject to the discretion of the T·ax Committee in conjunction with the Athletic Board. Profes-sor Charles T. ;Male, as director of the Union College Band submitted a report covering the activities of that or- ganization and explaining some of Hathaway a Member of Chi Psi the difficulties connected with its Hathaway, a member of the Chi maintenance. According to Profes- Psi fre.ternity, makes his home in sor M.ale a non-military colll!get River Edge, New Jersey. He has such ·as Union, can scarcely expec been on the editorial staff of The the strictly disciplined band which Concordiensis since his freshman an institution with R. 0. T. C. drill can support. Coupled with this dif- year and is also an associate editor ftculty is the lack of student co- of the 1935 Garnet. He is assistant operation. The band cannot afford manager of .tennis and oa member of to dlrop f.rom its corps a good the news· bureau. In his sophomore player, whether he attends prac- year he was a member of the Glee tices or not. Club and the choir. Dur-ing the past year Hathaway Despite these difficulties, Profes- has lead the attack on the marking sor Male mainbains that the Union system, helped form permanent band compares favorably with like editorial .policy, and was active in organizations in other colleges of contacting the administration. this size and despite strong campus criticism, has received creditable Fitzgerald is completing his third year on the business staff of The praise from dependable outside Concordiensis. In his freshman sources. He further pointed out year he was assistant manager of that the quality of music a band freshman football. Fitzgerald is a can produce out of dC)ors depends upon wind conditions which are sel- member of Delta Upsilon and lives dom favorable on the football field. in Goshen. All indoor concerts which the band Moulton an Athlete has held have been well received. Moulton is finishing his third Perhaps because it is an auxiliary year on the editorial staff of The organi:ro.tion, subordinating itself Concordiensis and is an associate always to some other activity such .editor of the 1935 Garnet. He won as football, it is difficult .to arouse his numerals for service with the interest in the band on the campus, freshman football team in 1931 and according to Professor Male. Out of has been a member of the varsity 38 active bandsmen, only twelve football team and the varsity track live on the campus. team for the past two years. At Professor Male pointed out that present he is on the Junior Prom the band has always been willing committee and is a member of the to support other college activities, news bureau. Moulton has been an (Continued on Page 8 ) officer of his class for the past two years and is now president of the French Club. He lives in Sche- Foreign Languages Aid Study Of English, W assmansdmf nectady and is a member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity. Dr. Ellery said the modern col~ legiate p:ress was taken for granted During his sophomore and junior time (1812) \old world universities lege is one in which modern youth by most institutions, although a years he was a member of the var- had ,been self-contained within is taught .modern aspects of knowl- few, especially those depending up- sity football and track squads. He cloister walls. Designed fot· the Speaking on the \Value of Study- edge by a faculty possessing flex- on state end(}wments, reported con- is a member of the Psi Upsilon education of the chosen few, they ing Modern Languages\ in daily ible modern minds. ditions where nothing could be Fraternity. shut themselves off from the busy assembly yesterday, Paul Wass- Moulton's editorials advocated procuring of ·a line coach, increased social activities, and examining the faculty. He devised and had charge of the Concordiensis Questionnaire. Woolman, a member of the Kap- pa Nu fraternity, makes his resi- dence in Troy. In his freshman year he won the VanOrden prize He said there is no p· lace on the printed without faculty and student . • in r~- Af£-'- world outside. Ramee changed all mansdorf, editor-in-chief of the council censorship. In every case Tripp Active V<lompus Uollb that, b\ turning the Oxford or modern faculty for men with closed ' Idol, said.: \Strangely enough, one minds, ·and this holds true not only the censored publication was dull L. Reed Tripp has received a uni~ Ca~brldge quadrangle inside out learns just a.s much about the Eng- in the scientific courses but also ii:l and poorly circulated. versity scholarship to do graduate As if in a gesture of extending op- lish language by studying a mod- those (}f the liberal arts, religion, Most delegates felt that the pres- work in economics at Yale. He is portunlty to all, he flung open the ern foreign language, as one does and social studies. ent financial assistance given by the a member of the Delta Phi Fra- front of the college that all might from studying English itself. But for a faculty to acquaint it- Federal Government to needy stu- ternity and was recently honored. enter, and made it a monument to Goethe, in fact, said that the best self with modern youth, it must al- dents was sufficient, l;mt many felt by election to Phi Beta Kappa. H!:! learning fit for royal occupancy. way for one to learn one's mother low studen-ts to express themselves that this aid should be extended to played important parts i~ several Yet he preserved something of the tongue was to study some. foreign freely. · cover the year :1934-:35. Lack of Mountebanks productions last year monastic character of academic life language. New meanings of words, (Continued on Page 8) --~-,o--- Union Plan Success Depends On Faculty, Says AI·gersinger definitions prevented any useful and served on the .Junior Prom by .placing a professor's residence new associations of phrases, and a' action on the question of studen~ Committee. He was also a member at each corner of his group, with deeper insight into the tremendous \The faculty is the most impor- Pan-American Day Will Be support of NRA as a permanent of the Union College delegation rep- dormit1>ries between, and class- importance of the idiom, all follow tant part of any college,'' said Mr. ObseJ.•ved in Daily Assembly national institution. After m\lch resenting Japan at the meeting of rooons In adjoining colonnades,\ from the study of languages. Roy A. Argersinger, '01, speaking b ickering over NRA \as. it ext. ·sts\ tP,e ]4odel A.ssembly of the League The article ·brings together what. in Tuesday morning chapel. A good · f N t\ h\ h w th u tt d inf tl h f \But most significant of all is the t . and the \underlying philosophy of o a 1ons w !C on e c P sea ere orma on ' as so ar echnical education should teach · d d t th d 1 tl\on· 'v1'ng t I' ht d\ R • deftness one acquires for shades of t k · d Am .• NRA,\ the confer· ence· left the mat- !!-War e o e . e ega . g1 . come o 1g regar mg amee s ·one o wor m ependentl\ and to Union will observe Pan en~ . · th t 11 t' , t t\ l\f d t\ lti d t meaning, in other words, the final b ' . M \al ter undecided, e mos rea s lC represen a 10n. 1 e an ac IV es, some new a a e able to concentrate on Golving Day, tomorrow, m the emorl He also parti<lipated in the activi\ having been obtained by Professor. keen edge on the instrument of quickly, thoroughly and correctly Chapel where Robert F. Coggeshall, R. 0. T. C. Not C«>mpulsory ties of the Glee Club, the Choir, LarrBJbee from France through the language. It is an understanding problems of the practical nature of the Interlia.tional General Elec- The conference voted as a unit Instrumental Club, and served as kind assistance of the Hon. War- of the shades of meaning that encountered after college, when no trio Company, will deliver the prin- that the R. o. T. C. should not be candidate manager of Tennis and rlngton Dawson, special attache of makes one's conversation and writ- instructor is at hand to advise. The ciple address. The exercises will be co.mpuisory. Most students whl) on the Associate Board of the 1934 the American IDmbassy in Paris. ing intelligent and interesting. burden of teaching this rests upon similar to those observed through- · \A t d had been subjected. to <this drHI, Garnet. Since the article was written, addi- s u y of the modern Ian- the members of the faculty and it out the country under the auspices however, felt that reserve training Charles S. Bridgeman, of Roches- tiona! information has been re- guages, then, gives one a sense and is the ability of each professor to Of t he Pan American Union iii b\ 1 d p h di 1 f d .should be maintained as an optional ter, a major in 10 ogy an sy- eeived from t is source, indu ng fee o wor s. One learns how to shoulder this burden which deter- Wa.Shington. course. chologY', will prepare for the doc- a translation of a Danish book re- use and to use skillfully that chief mines the true value of an educa- Union has more 'than sixty-five · h 1 t 1 ti t R hi h t 11 f h\ · t t f • f t i · S th d A heated discussl ·on ~f world torate degree m .psyc o ogy a a ng ·. o -amee, w c e s o 1s ms rumen o · expressiOn o our- ional nstitution. alumni now living in ou an v • ·t d · t 1 k · D k d · 1 · I M d I M A · . f h peace tactics clearly showed the Brown Umvers1 y un er a umver- ·ex ens ve wor m enmar urmg se ver anguage. o ern anguages r. rgerslnger also stated that Central ~merca, • manr ~ wt om pacifist tende~cies of American stu- sity scholarship. Bridgeman is one the petiod 1801-06. It appears that.. are not a mental discipline, a way the \Union Plan\ may be a change are prom~nen engul.eers, e ucca 11 . ors, , dents. Sugg· es·tt'on·s were· made that .of three men who were honored by Ramee~s fame just before his com- to make us :think, but rather they in either the right or the wrong and physicians. MacKenzie o eg. e, b th s· x· d Phi · ~~ th U 't. d St t · t h t 1 bet di t· b t in Brazil was founded by a Union students openly oppose the policy election to. o 1gma 1 an · mg w e m e a es was eac us o express ourse ves -· reo 10n • u only with the full sup- ! W dd 11 f of \yellow sheets\ .to arouse inter- Beta Kappa. He has also been on greatet; than has been realized ter, and thus perhaps,. to lead a port of a consclentioUtS faeulty will r~:d~~; oV~k~ A. a e ' 0 (Continued on Page 5) (Continued on Page 8) hitherto. slightly fuller life,\ it be a complete success.

Two C!Ltutror ~irnsis \A Oausa Peraa Parole Assai\ FouNDED 1877 @\ssociattd @olttgiate <J~es~ ---_----~-- ......;::;;! 1913 ~~~ 1934 EO--- The official newspaper of the students of Union College, Published Tuesdays and Frid~ys throughout the college year, except durmg Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communications to CJemens F. Hathaway, Chi Psi Lodge, Union College, .Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg ........... Business Manager Donald B. Moulton .. ,., ...... Managing Editor Joseph A. Woolman .............. News Editor Milton A. Berger .. , ............. Sports Editor Thornton W. W.hipple .... Circulation Manager J. Anderson V. Gilbert .JUNIOR BOARD R. North A. Stevenson V. Trumbull Lssue Editor .... Clemens F. Hathaway FRIDAY, APRIL 13,1934 FAREWELL It is with a deep feeling of regret that we, the retiring Senior Board of The Concordiensis turn the destinies of the paper over to the new editors; but we do so with the utmost confidence. They have all worked long and faithfully, and we are sure that they know their jobs. At this time last year, we stated that we would experiment for the first few months endeavoring to improve the paper in every possible respect. The changes that we made are obvious. We do not be- lieve that there will be any radical changes on the technical side of the paper, and the new staff assures us that the editorial policy will not change. Looking back over our year's work, we find that we have accomplished something. 4 brief summary of exactly what has been done might be in order. Last April, when there was a plan on foot to change completely the method of election of Student Councilmen, The Concordiensis went on record as definitely opposed to the change. The idea was to let each student make his own nominations, and to use the preferential system in both the nomination and election of Councilmen. The whole proposition was tremendously cluttered up with red tape. The preferential system for elections was adopted, but the rest of the motion was defeated. We consistenely opposed the retention of the inef- fective Interfraternity Council. The fact that we no longer have a council is not even noticed now. The so-called \review period\ has been criticized from time to time. We still do not feel that conditions are as beneficial to students as they might be. Too many professors interpret this period in too many different ways. We have thought all year that there should be some uniformity in the method of conduct- ing courses during the final two weeks of college before exams. Terrace Council On Moving-Up day last May we intimated that the Terrace Coun- cil wouid die a natural death un- less the members of that body did something tokeep the organization alive. The only thing the Terrace Council has done this year is spon- sor the Block \U\ dinner. As a guess, we might say that not more than ane quarter of the Student Body knows who is on the Council. Some day, and it may not be so far off, the undergraduates are go- ing to get tired of paying $56 every year to pay for keys for TE>rrace Conncilmen. We opposed the action of the Athletic Board, when it abolished hockey. We feel that The Concor- diensis was largely responsible for the re-establish- ment of the sport. A sub-freshman week end, which we advocated last May became a reality this spring. We do not want to take the credit for the re-establishment of this valuable function. We simply wish to state that we supported it as a worth while improvement. We have never had much to say in favor of the band. It is terrible, and we are of the opinion that if we cannot have a decent organization, the Student Tax Committee would do well to turn the money over to the Glee Club or the Mountebanks, and send them on a trip which would do muct to publicize the col- lege. Freshman-sophomore scraps are useless. There is no spirit in them any more. Some day somebody is going to get hurt seriously. Last year there was a more or less serious injury suffered. During the past four years no more than thirty sophomores have participated in the scraps. Under these conditions should they be continued? For several years, it has been evident that fresh- man rules on the Union Campus were a joke. This paper presented a plan which was adopted almost in full by the Student Council. In spite of some criticism, we still believe that class officers with the exception of the senior class are of no value whatsoever. It is a well known fact that there is a sad lack of class spirit here. We feel that something should be done to increase this spirit, but it cannot be done by allowing worthless class officers to continue in office. We suspect that the new editors of this paper would welcome any sug- gestions to improve this condition. So called honorary societies, until this year, had flourished on the campus for some time. Every year students were \taken\ for fifteen or twenty dollars if they were \fortunate\ enough to be asked to join Pi Delta Epsilon 01 Pi Gamma Mu. We feel that the fact that we started agitation which resulted in the elim- THE GONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1934 inatlon of both of these societies from the campus, is one of the best things ·we have done. 'We have encouraged a better interfraternity re- lationship all through the year. Just how much has been accomplished by our remarks is hard to tell, but the more friendly our too many fraternities are to each other, the better. Believing that the coaching .system here, as far as the football team is concerp.ed, has not been ade- quate for some time, the editors have advocated a stronger coaching department. An announcement from the Athletic Department is expected within a few days concerning the tine coaching situation. In order to give some continuity to the editorial policy of The Concordiensis, the members of the staff got together and ·formulated a new permanent edi- torial policy. The ma;jor reason for this action is to. give the paper a chance to work for ·improvements which will take more than one year to get. We have not felt that the freshman attitude is all that it should be, The first year is the time when undergraduates should develop an Interest in their Alma Mater. Steps should be taken to inculate this spirit into first year men. We do not believe in fraternities having ridicu- lous, \high school\ Hell Weeks. The new Tax Coinmittee can do some good work. Unless plenty of discretion is Used it can do a lot of harm. 'l'he Student Body as a whole, we think, has not the faintest idea of what it is all about. This ignorance, however, is the usual lack of interest on. the par·t of the undergraduates which we have been trying to correct all year. · English The situation in the English Department had been unfortunate for a number of years. While we do not take the credit for reform- ing the department, we did bring Department the matter to a head, and all pos- sible improvements have been made for next year, with more promised for the future. Many students believe that our marking system is out of date and worthless. The editors of this paper have felt that there should be drastic changes. We are told that something will be done at a later date. Freshman sports never should have been abol- ished. By the time this paper goes to press they should be back. Our policy of attacking \dead wood\ on the fac- ulty, if it has done nothing else, has made some of our instructors sit up and take notice . .As we have said many times, there are some rotten spots on the faculty, and until they are cleared up, Union's in- tellectual advancement will be seriously retarded. Union College should be good at something. We have three things on the campus that could bring national fame to the college: the Mountebanks, the Glee Club and Student Publications. These three or- ganizations, if placed before the public, could add much to the prestige of the college. The Student Council has shown perceptible signs of weakening this year. If this organization does not keep on its toes at all times, in a couple of years, the students will again rise up and demand another change. There is no reason for having Student Body meet- ings if nobody comes to them, or if there is no busi- ness to put on the floor. The editors of this paper for the past year have been accused of almost everything by certain stu- dents and members of the faculty. We have worked to the best of our ability for everything worthwhile on the campus, and in spite of what some misin- formed persons say, we believe that thinking under- graduates and faculty members realize that we have worked for the best interests of the college. GEORGE R. CORY, JR. C. WILLIAM HUNTLEY ROBERT H. SMITH PRINCE E. OLESON ARNOLD J. FRIEDMAN DEBUT The new Senior Board of The Concordiensis takes great pride in assuming its new duties. We shall bend every possible effort toward publishing a news- paper of the same high standard as The Concordien- sis of the pwst year. The outgoing Senior Board has toiled unselfishly in their tasks of producing a better paper than has ever been seen at Union by any stu- dent now enrolled in the college. They have worked diligently in instructing us in the art of journalism so that we believe ourselves to be fully equipped to carry on the tradition of first-rate joumalism at our Alma Mater. A£ is the custom we shall ,briefly outline our policy for the next year. The new Senior Board intends to continJl.e the im- partial policy of the outgoing editors. On January 9, 1934, a permanent Concordiensis editorial policy was ann,ounced. That policy was fully endorsed by the entire stafi at that time so it is needless to say that we shall continue to adhere to it. Dormitoi'Y for A dormitory capable of housing the entire fl'eshman class is an in- evftaJbie necessity. Other colleges in Union's class have such accom- modations for their first-year men and Union should take steps toward Fl'eshmen obtaining such a dormitory. In the same category as the freshman dormitory is the need for a deferred ru!ihing system. If fresh- men were not alowed to pledge to any fraternities for two or three months after the opening of the college year, both the freshmen and the f~aternities would reooive greater assurance of faJ.I'lless in choices. Deferred rushing could only follo•w ample dormitory facilities for the entire freshman class. We shall continue to favor increased publicity for Union College, It is the work of tqe News Bureau which carries the name 'Union' to all parts of the country and is instrumental in attraeting students to our campus. Well-managed publicity is vital to any college and especially to a college the size of Union and we feel that Union College publicity is capably handled by Milton M. Enzer. The announcement of new line coaches for the football team is expected soon so we shall have little to say on this matter. We shall continue the policy of trying to eliminate \Dead-wood\ from the faculty. The outgoing Senior Board lent a helping hand toward the· reorganiza\ tion of instruction in the English department. Stu- dents of Union have every right to expect instruction of high calibre and we shall try to protect the stu- dents' interests in this respect. The Concordiensls will not tolerate disloyalty within the student body or the :faculty and will take steps to expose disloyal or seditious acts by people connected with the col'- lege. College should not be regarded as a huge grade school, for in college there are varied fields of ii:lter- est which should attract all students. Union is not lacking in ()pportunities for its undergraduates. \Young man, grasp your opportunity;\ is a saying which we believe to ·be worthy of cognizance by the college student. We shall attempt to .promote inter- est in the extra-curricular activities of Union and encourage each student to malte himself an important part of the machine that is Union College. To limit the size of fraternity pledge delegations would be a dis- tinct advantage to Union-\The. Mother of Fratternities.\ Limited delegations have accomplished their purpose successfully at other col- leges and could do no harm at Un- RANDOM OBSERVATIO!N.S By Sidney David Markman io~~ the statement of our editorial The Fall of the 1\tighty Re:;~ound!! .Rather do they bemoan their ills With Ten Thousand '.fh~ders! which they consider not ~actly the policy for the coming year we have We; the young are fortunate to order of nature. He remembered thus far devoted our space to the have seen with great clar-ity so ithe days when by the swea:t of his endorsement of 'the permanent ed- early in life how the fortunes of brow he would lug the old cart itorial policy of The Concordiensis. men change. But youth is ·eminent piled high with clay from. door to· We shall now set forth other items which have come to our attention in its refusal to profit by the mis- :d~(}r and b.l'tggle with the huse- takes of former generations. Per- Wives over the price. since January 9 • sona,l experience is a good and true Now he was rich and esteemed. The present marld:ng system of teacher which no amount of cau- the College does not do J 'ustice to He was like a tall tree to.pping all' · · · ·. :tion urged U\'on us .by the oider t every student~s inherent abilities. and wiser ~n. can in any way o hers hi a forest, like a stout pH- During the past two months we lar In an open spa:ce seen· from have been conducting a survey of ward off from headlong plunging aiar . .All men looked. up to hill\. youth. · systems employed by other colleges Old age if> the time of backward And he kept the little broken and we have 8Jlso submitted a plan y t h down cart. · which we believe would meet the looking and deep ·regret. ou h a!'J needs of the modern college. We no regret, is ~oyous and impetuous •. · With the passing years he grew shall devote the next year to brin.g- Impetuousity 1s of the present; and , even richer. With joy he watched ing this need to the eyes of the .the present is the time of the life h~s S()ns grow ·Up. When they were Of Youth We C ·annot Ioolr to .the ·old enough he took them unto h. ~··s faculty and will endeavor to get ' . •• past, for we have no past; nor can· ·heart and taught them .the wisdom student ophiion on .the matter. ·.we look to the future. The· genesis. of humility. To Conduct Poll Next Yl\.ar The poll conducted ·by the Con- of forwardlooking wis(lom lies in And he still kept the little cart. cordiensis several weeks ago was the past. With his wealth the sons in their a huge success and a simitlar poll· • * \' turn prospered w.4ile he retired to will be held next win 1 ter. The edi- Once in a small town a long time bethink himself of his 'life well tors of this .newspaper received a:go there lived a poor man who .s.pent. But the sons could not un- much valuable information from earned his living by carting clay .. derstand, why their ·father contin- that poll. students were thus given. The housewives used clay to smear ued to keep the cart. Often would an opportunity for self expression· the walls and floors of houses be~. they question him, bu,t he would concerning every department of the fore holidays and festive occasions. not answer. paper and with the aid of the re- His property consisted of the . Finding him one day sitting alone suits of that poll we shall try to clothes upon his back arid an old and thinking quietly again they give the students what they want broken down cart which did not asked him why he persisted in to read. have two wheels which were alike. keeping the little cart. Knowing several comments have been Without this cart he could not have tha~ soon J;e would die and wishing made about our circulation depart- made a living. to Impart a few words of wisdom ment. A complete reorganization· One day when he was out in the to his sons he spoke. has already taken place in this . .fields to get a load of clay he dug . \My sons this little ca:rt has been function of The Concordiensis with ·up a chest full of gold. His joy as a remembrance to me of the the result that more efficiency has knew no bounds and he rushed days when· I was not among the already been shown in both cam-· home to tell his wife and small chi!- blef'!sed in this life, but among those pus and off-campus distribution. dren of his good fortune. who sweat and have not. In the Somewhat more than two years He took this gold and used it days of my might I remembered ago the Student Council was organ- wisely. Within a: few years he be- when I was weak. Always did I ex- ized to take the place of the Ter- came the leading citizen in hl!'l pect to fa:l!. What man knows what race Council as the governing or- town. He was highly respected by the fates have in store for him. gan of the student body. Since that the other members of the commun- .And if I did fall I wanted at least time it has set new records for ef- ity. His wealth enabled him to give to have the little .cart so that I ficiency and volume of legislation. to charity very fi.·eely, which only could again earn my bread as of Yet, we feel, an unnatural balance augmented his prestige in the eyes old. of power Ues in the hands of the of others. \Itt is very easy to climb up the senior class. To remedy this short- But he kept the little old broken ladder; bitter is it to go down. For coming, we shall seek a reappor- down cart. when the wind blows and uproots tionment of seats for the two up- 'Often he would sit and meditate a tall tree, then do the goats sport per classes. on his blessings. Very few mend(). among its leaves and branches.\ Student Tax Every student pays forty dollars tical issues; he should leai'n a!'l com'Se before it's too late! You're annually to support the extra-cur- much as possi·ble about economic wasting your time! Don't wait 'till ricular activities of the student and social problems; he should be the med school rejects you to dis- body. We stbihall favor wishe approt - trained to think clearly and inde- cover the sad truth that you're pre- priation of s moJtey tot emu u- pendently a:bout these problems .... pared for only that which you will al benefit of every student. This will probably not develop a then be forced to give up forever! A marked degree of cooperation good party man, but it should de- And don't blame the college If you has existed between the editorial velop a good citizen, which is what continue stupidly along your course staff of The Concordiensis and the the cc;mntry most needs.\ without investigating your: future administration for the past year. • • • status! The college does not feel We hope to continue that spirit of 001) The esteemed \Topics of the any responsibility in this respect! cooperation throughout the cpming Times'' in discus~ing mental insta- Open. your eyes, pre-meds, and year. We sincerely believe in the bility among teachers says: \Eccen- don't be fools! Union Plan and feel that students tricity goes with college professors of this college are exceedingly for- as traditionally as volubility goes tunate in studying under the facul- with politicians.\ Move to amend, ty which engineered that forward to read: \Eccentricity and volubll- step in higher education. ity go with college professors .•. \ Editorials will be written by staff '* * * members only. We will welcome poo The University of California criticism or comment in letter form has been testing materials for and we urge students to make more Boulder Dam, and the Herald-Trib use of the \In the Mail\ column heads the story profanely: \Dam than before. We shall continue to .Cement Took Three Years to Test.\ publish signed letters. Seems to us a case of justifiable This new senior board wdll take impatience. IGNOTUS. •· . * Adv.-\We Carry a Complete Line of Shoe Polishes, Cleaners and Laces\-Kappa Aipha (R. Nelson). We suggest that the Sig Phis sell pins and needles. .... Read \Faculty Husbands\ by George Belane in last issue ·Of Har- per.:s. It's a riot. See how many Umon profs. you can find among the leaves. pains to be ever alert in affairs of vital interest to the student body. Should new problems come ·to the I ~ • • * fore we shall take a definite stand I Gus Brown and Phil Smith, Mid- beneficial to the best interests of E PLURIBUS UNUM dlesex: waterboys, have· organized the undergraduates. '-;:;==============!.' themselves into a most efficient fire - b.rigade. Anyone who may have any EASY QN THE EYES ·Beyond our comprehension- fires to be put out is requested to In the sordid world outside the get in touch with either of them. h They're especially good on small 000 Little did we suspect w en we college wall, one doesn't ordinarily fires. Incidental•ly, · Blli Mitchell began this column way back on call a watch-maker to repair a bro- sophomore pugliist, was offering May 10, 1932 with the motto: \If it's ken sewer pipe; nor does ()ne go to br<>iled' ham8 with some of his roo- civilized, we're interested,\ eith!lr the local. gas company for a bot- t that it would be going (strong?) tie of baby's milk,· nor does one al- orcycle rides last week-quite nov- two years later, or that it would see ways consult an obstetrician for a. el, we'd say. · the rise of so many anonymous case of fallen arches. But in col- • columns alongside it Some of them lege they do things differently. Mr. Tlhe Beta !':olliie took the prize remind 1,1s of the old Lion's Mouth· Wainger is at Cornell working in for the bes~ show last week. Two in the Doge's Palace at Venice; the field of American Literature. lo.cal girls strolling up Union Ave- and if you don't .know what that He'll be back here in the fail!. Any-. nue last Thursday night were dis- was for, ask the History depart- one would naturally think that the cussing the movie they had just ment. opportunity would be provided by seen. It was midnight. They glanced * * * the college for next year's under- up f!.t the mpon and what a moon It 000 This one may be old, but it graduates to share in the benefits was. Up there on the second floor comes to us from a professor at an of Mr. Wainger's specialization. of the Beta House (front) stood institution which shall be nameless. We're wrong again. Our logic Bill BI•ockwehl-Swell lights, sweli It seems that a professor came into. must be terrible. But of course we, :show, swell moon. The girls hur- his classroom one day very late for here in college, are a people set ried homeward, slightly e:mbarrased class and found them gone. Next apart .from the world. Mr. Wain- -and to think that they'd wasted day he rebuked them bitterly, say- ger is to teach the drama-a field good money on a downto'Wn show! • • • ing: \Didn't you see I'd left my which he must hastily explore d.ur- hat on the desk?'' Next day after ing the summer. We feel tha:t Mr. that he came in late again, to find Wailiger can do the job well-but the room once more empty, but a we also feel that it's hardly fair to Great has been the need for a hat on every seat! him, There is surely no dearth of line coach for our athletes. But • * * . men in the English dept. who are even greruter is the need for a 000 A recent orthopedic survey already well prepared to teach this. \line'' coaeh for the faculty. . \' • shows that college students are re- course. It smells suspicionsly lilte. marka;bly free from troubles with consultlug .Sir Oliver Lodge on phil- their feet. But unfortunately that osophy or Prof. ligon on religion. FER A men-Cheer !lP!. Checks il:l not the end professors have to But colleges are different. f 1 t F b 1 deal with. • .- * · or as e ruary Wil bll here by e * * Prof. Bennett at Glens Falls- graduation, for M!!-rch , by Chi'ist- 000 Ye Retiring Editor (Who rates The ·greatest sacrifice entailed in mas, for April by Easter, and for at least six wound stripes) was the abolition of faculty meetings Is May by the next presidential elec- kind enough to ca,ll our attention the loss of the privilege of hearing tion. It's some relief to ll;now that, to the howler in the New York \Johnny\ March move for adjourn- isn't it? • • Her.ald-Tribune's announcement of ment. the fact that it had been awarded * * * A further hint to those more un- the Ayer Cup for typographical ex:-- Notice to the Dean (and his daugh- · intelligent pre-meds who ru•e bright cellence. The caption of the pic- ter)- enough to foresee their doom~the ture spelled it \New Yoork Herald- \An apP'le a day keeps the doc- English dept. is ~Y hi need of Triibune.\ tor away.\ · majors. *** *** 000 Speaking sensibly on the sub- Senator Thayer of Albany-well ject \How Do ~ou Rate the Impor- kno:wn throughout this part of the tance of the Study of Politics in the world has a grandson a,mong Uirlon Development of the Undergradu- undergraduates. ate?\ President Karl Compton of M. I. T. said: \In colleg·e the stu- dent should learn something of the history of government and of poli- • •• • Sourtd advice-(to the dumber half of. the frosh pre-meds) Don't be fooled! Get out of the . ·• . Hats off 1;o George Cocy and Ids gang-'rbey've done a good job. The pace has been set but the race has only begnn. Carey on p{em- we're all with you. TJtanlm, Goorge, -we're mighty proud {If yonr wQrk. E. P .. tr. - [ To tl Th Im Gods scieiJ the< marl mor< Unm on l bolts of ttl that shou for a ed ' the 1 was cons Si! Som· \: Tot TI: Tc woul my heed mit Tc ask Mar. Thel the, I' mat1 ': theil not hadi ofC had havE and witb our ) Tl j . \ gym I .I l Tl IIJ one wori \I yet T1 for fills Idol call1 be r Idol A: crm a s1 pal! this cite whc p0¥1 the to the! M ech he a oth1 cho ima wh~ adv and pas to Whl bui: tot v tior wit live be ras her. ept the lea: -o Ya: sec .the P. Ca' ide sco Ide ing str. get exi we fro I vie fro me abt or wb so ca enr or so te1 tio qu ha fOl go jOl eS' an W! it wl ha

ills the of his cart to· huse- all pil- from broken grew atched were his cart. their to well un- would would they in been of the the those the I ex- what him. least that I as of the For sport You're 'till dis- pre- will if you COill'Se future feel and Line and sell by Har- many among Mid- fire any to them. small mo- nov- prize Two re dis- just It floor sto<ld sweli hur- show! for a s. But for a ere by Christ- for elec- that, un- bright of his job. race WQrk. tr. ,. ' ': THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 13, :1..934 Three [~~=L=e=t=te=r=s =to=· =th=. e=E=d=it=o=r==~'' \Irate Readers\ To the editor of The Concor(jliensis: Inasmuch aa we <think that Dr. Godshall -is one ·Of 'the most con- scientious and thorough teacher·s oil the cam.pus, we believe that the re- mark, whether intended to be hu- morous or nQt, in the E Pluribus Unum column of the Concordiensis on March 30, pertaining to. class bolts in the P. S. courses was one of 'the mos•t inappropria:te remarks that you have ever printed. You should be thoroughly condem):led for allowing the remark to be print- ed without any investigation into the true nature of the situation. It was a remark of crudeness and in- consid6'1.•aJtion. Signed, Some of the Good Friday students. \Thanks for Opinion\ they haven't enough money to eat a,t fraternities or restaurants. Then, to have some fellow, who is better :situated economically, call them RATS is more than en<lugh to make me boil. In fact, I maintain .that no C<lllege man should allow his feelings to ·n:w:ke him forget hiil dign~ty. \Carpet-baggers\ was enough .but \RA'l'S\ is the straw -t-hat ·broke the Missouri Mule's, back. It is not my duty to defend these ·gentlemen. I do wish, however, to caJl your attention to Mr. lnehwell. I believe -that an apology is the next order of ·business and I hope that such a grave error will not be repeated. As .the dea;n would say, Cordially yours, Seth T. Cole, Jr. '34 ·\Course in Roman Law\ To the Editor of The Concordiensis: , Next. fall an elective entitled In- To the Edttor of trod'Uction to Roman Law will ·be The Con·cordiensis: ·o-ffered for men contemplating tak- To state th·at I am displeased lng up the study of law. It was would not even begin to describe formerly given as a required sub- my feelings, V\.'hy don't you folks ject during the brief period when heed the old flaying, \live and per- there was a two-year pre-law course mit to enjoy life at Union College?\ at Union. Students who have had To find my particular peeve, I ·at least two years of high school ask you to turn •to .page two of the Latin are eligi-ble, if they wlll re- Mar~h 30th issue of your tabloid. view the fundamentals of Latin be- Then, read the first paragrap.h of .rore next September. the college's InchweH. The subject Robinson's S e 1 e c t ions from matter :pertains to RATS who eat Roman Law,· supplemented by their lunch in the gym. Now I do 'readings from the Institutes of Ga- not know who this lad is, but if he ius and Justinian, will be used. For hadi used the word Albany instead the history of the development of of Cohoes I should not rest until I Roman Law and the systematic had the pleasure of meeting him. I presentation of the law itself have eaten in the gym several times Morey's Outline of Roman Law will and I found the conversation equal be used>. Cases will •be studied from with the intelligent talk found in the Digest and in Hunter's Roman our many Frat Clubs. Law. Readings will a:lso be as- These gentlemen who eat in the signed in Holland's Jurisprudence. gym are forced to do so because George D. Kellogg. Week's Best Editorial mal glitter of this passage. And, ::vet, with the impatient ce!'tainty that co~es from change and de- THE NIGHT SOFTLY FALLS parture we shall live a little too In one of Kipling's short stories, wisely, no doubt, on the banks of one of his Tommies says of the ;the_ Styx .hopl;ng to hear the words world: whwh Wlll g1ve us the cheer for , , the new life. 'It ne~er do-ne_ ~o g~d ~~ me, , And to the group which last night yet I cant leave 1t If I tned. .took our place we hand over the Tonight, as we fill this column ·Palladium-the Lord God of News• for the last time, the same emotion ,papers, who will watch over them fills us. We are retiring with our and have mercy upon their souls. Id<lls of the !<larket-place, as Bacon · -The Columbia \Spectator\ called mankind's \false notions,\ to , · be replaced with our own individual ir=========~=====ii Idols of the Cave. And in this Cave, we shall sit : cross-legged like some yogi beside : a stream, rest the face on cupped , palms and attempt to rationalize this avulsion from a maidan of ex- citement, deed and triviality. Those who have endowed us with the Notes On Our Contemporaries powers of a ·Triton will now hear .A Picture of Union t h !\tan' f th h After reprinting the faculty ex- . e 1 les 0 ose w 0 once gave amination of The Concordlensis in to their felrlows and took from. them the fruits of friendship. the editorial columns of The Col- Muffled and sometimes termagant· gate Maroon, the editors made the echoes followed us as we rushed following statement: \We present headlong from one mistral into an-; this as a picture of a living ~am­ other. There were days when we pus newspaper and of a liberal chose to ignore those echoes of an- minded administration. Is this a iJ:pa.dversion. There were other days contrast to The Maroon? to Col- when we heard and followed the gate? We sincerely hope not.\ advice and wisdom of some, older What Every Young Graduate and more durable. But in all this Should Know past our memories can only revert From The Columbia Daily Spec- to the hours of serious purpose tator: \]1<Iost of the items of guilt when we sat with men eager to· are applied to both sexes. But there build and enhance and contribute are some which are more essen- to the growth of a living symbol. tia:l for women-\more than men.\ We, too, take with us a realiza- Some of these are: tion of the significance inherent within these pages.-and were our 1. Use lipstick, rouge and pow- lives to begin anew our sins would' der with moderation and in har- be fewer; our words, perhaps, less mony with one's own personal rash. But those who can compre- clothing. hend can also forgive the nymphol- 2. Wear enough clothes for pur- eptic fusillades which, often, wrote poses of common decency. themselves. For, we have now 3. Do nol put make-up on in learned the meaning-at first hahd public. -of Kuprin's words in his novel,. 4. Use natural nail polish (if Yama: any is used). \Frivolous society pitilessly per- secutes that which it wllows in 5. Keep eyebrows natural look- theory.\ . _ ing. (Do not arch them to the point The Spark That Ignited the Flame THE CONCORD lEN SIS.' · VoL. I. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., NovEMIII·.I<, 1877. No. J. LITERARY. 'the ar~y when none Out ruy~llty couiJ hope for: ---------------- promotion, he advanced ,J.,wly .11 fir>t, but : A REVERY. after equality of right5 was re~toreU, his. rise ls·mutcr all? Goes soul rot naught? Do all 011r nsplratlons·and our doubts, Uo alllhC&&NJUbtlc, winged thought~. ·.Leave crace behind· them none? When lt1·yoo tuneful, odorous·wood, Wu•walk alone :mU calmly muse, Do·perfumei cheer and ·lllUStC move ·But·solhudo's inspiring thoughts ' :More fleeting, useless .prove? \Vhe11 yonder setting sun sets· fire To all the drapery·D( cloud, Docs color's·influence leave no touch .Onns, il.S on the leaves? Do our resolves and honest trials, .Oo moral vlct'ries bravely won, Docs p.11lence'long .lnd'charity E:4;t'fl no innuencc so great, As motions physical ~ Be praise! man's inner life does tell Upon lh~ world without (ul\ well. ' Each hope, each {ear, eat>h secret thought, E;tch bcautcot1s scene, eruhusia:st's dream, Each p11rpose formed,ear.h vow well kept, Hiti strength 1~ la~t ten thousand years, Has power lo shape e'en adamant. They mak~ the man, man rules the world, Thcr all are n·.l.l, ~hey only n:al. , was rapid. \Ve 15ee him in N.tpoleon's .battle-s along the Rhine: at Worm• and Frankfort .. . at Stuttgard and Zurich. Agdm, ht: b ',:\lmrstc;~ :to Switzerland, and shortlr dftt:n\ard .1 Marw; ·>hal of France. With courage Ney combined coolness and· 'ound judgment. ln·tho hc:.lt of battle he stood• :'in marble calrnne ... ~, ob::;~.:rving c:vc:ry movcmcn t .md never erring in hb commands. r'hese. qualitte~ won hb ~oldtcrs' hcart5, He led· men , where no other general could. Time and again: did Napoleon place in N cY's hands the fate of. , the Empire. Of the numerous titles conferred . upon this hero, the worthie~t was that of .. Bra\'- . est of the llral'e\; to win .this name from M~-· . rat, Macdonald and Lannes wa.., great ~lory. A page from the Marshal'> life will illuotratc 'his character : ' ~foscow was taken. fhc burning to\~ ers were flaring on tht: night ; hou~es were falling ; wall~ were cra~hing do\\ n. \\'it·h forty thou- sand men Ney\\as r..ll·tailcd to co\<'t:r tht> rt'trcat .. The !ooldicrs !>uffcreJ tcrdbly. .At every o;tcp some one succumbed to the weary march and , pinching cold. Those behind stumbled over MARSHAL NEY. the bodies of those who had preceded. Many,: -- in despair. threw av.·ay their arms and lay down' Fi1st 7Jtlu'or Pri\zt.• Oratiou. , to die. Clouds of croaking ravens hovered - near. Thewo!vc-.howledamid the snow. The JA\fE'i L'OSI.ETT SMITH, JR. winter \\'inU whbtled through the cold pine: .... ~IItTll·.:EI. NEY wa'j a soldier by inheritance. The driving -;now cut thL• vcryf11!'sh. At ni6ht, 1-lis father \>Crved in the Seve-n Year .. • war, and the \oldkr .. lay dnwn ~1b•a1t thl.'ir fin:~. and the· lat hb f,\tht.:r\ knee ht.' (io;tent!'d to the talc:s of 11\Hri\IO!i found circles of J~ad men in tht.·i r VJ.!orou-. c.let\J. that thrilled hi~ .... uul and fed 1 pl.ll't.'~. Ncy'-. fnrt}\ thou.,~mtl men br:CJffit' fif- hi-; inher~nt ll)nging to bt!' a soldier. tt:en hundred. Stall he stnlg~lcO tHl, lHm.;;df ~ cy could :bo.l->t no lofty lincctgt:-. Entering ~nawcd by pang<:. uf hun{.{er, hi-. heart blct .hng The Concordiensis Once Declared ~ll the Nudes That Fit We Print' By VEDDER M. GILBERT One fall day in 1877 a successor cordiensis was decreru~ed in size to \The Pru~time\ of 1807 and to an.d made into- a semi-monthly to the \Floriad\ of 1811 appeared on be sold at fif.teen cents per copy. the campus. The new Uterary ef- Tw<> years later it was issued on fort edited by J. F. Greene '79 bore alternate Wednesdays for the same a long scholarly name, \The Con- price. cordiensis\ The first issue an- Union College celebrated its Cen- nounced to its readers ·that it was . tennlal in 1895. The Concordiensi~ to be a monthly magazine (a little in its .effort to do its share, pub~ larger than \The Idol\) of sixteen lished a three column, eight page pages devoted chiefly t<> literature. daily from June 22 to 28. The Cen- The November issue of The Con- tennial Concoi'dien~is was an elab- cordiensls contained editorials deal- orate news sheet. The title of the ing with military drill, downtown paper was arched across an indis- disturbances, and senior· rules. A tinct cut of the Blue Ga:te. The good bit of space was given to art- eight pages were filled with cuts icles on fall athletics and class elec- of the principal speakers, their tions. The magazine included also speeches, and biographical sketches. two colum.ns. One was headed The next year the periodical re- \Pers<>nals\, the other, \Para- mained a literary and news publi- graphs\. The la.tter contained new-· cation, but was converted into a sy bits such as \No scissors yet\. weekly and sold a:t ten cents a copy. Rapidly Progressed Stl•ange Ads Throughout the following months An analysis of the advertisements The Concordiensis progressed. The to be found In the Coneordiensis second ·issue added a department at the turn of the century throws entitled \Locals\ where one might an interesting side-light on the era. read, \The college were given from There were advertisements for Wednesday noon until Monday suits which sold at fifteen dollars, n<>on in which to eat their Thanks- and two pieced suits of underwear giving turkey.\ The third issue consisting of coats and pants which added exchanges and the fourth is- sold a:t a price that would make sue added correspondence and Ex- Kresge's look cheap. An ad for the tranea, that is, \Yale has 507 stu- Empire Theatre declared that it dents\ or \Dartmouth has made ex- presented 'refined' Burlesque and tensive additions to its library.\ Vaudeville. One of Schenectady's Beginning with the second vol- leading florists states in a single ume the masthead was placed. on breath that 'high grade ca-sket the first page, and the character- blankets and shower bouquets' were !sties of the magazine were well- its specialties. defined The Concordiensis ap- At the beginning of the twentieth peared to be composed of stilted, century even the notices took on a fi<lwery stories peppered profusely pecuniary aspect. One notice in with bits of knowledge inscribed in 1912 reads, \The Concordiensis will Greek. The news features dealt gladly pay a liberal reward for in- chiefly wllh football, a character· formation leading to the recovery istlc that has more or less 'per- of the valuables stolen. from a cer- sisted throughout, when the sport taln sophomore who was showing is in season. his fair friend the beauties of Jack- Size Diminished son's garden.\ September 18, 191{) marked the The third volume, published dur- ing 1879, was diminished in size, but retained its two column, six- And, still, amidst our Idols of the. where eye-brow pencil is needed.) Cave we can aspire to the same Others applicable to both sexes ideals and theories which some scorned because theirs were the Idols of the Theatre. Only by grasp- ing even more firmly those random strands which we have tangled to- gether during this last year of an existence can we make cer·tain that we have passed beyond and away from the land of the Lotophagi. are: teen page magazine form. In 1833, 1. Refrain from malicious gos- when it began serving Union Uni- Call Ball Even in this very writing one views incidents which have risen from tiny, almost insignificant movements in. the vast espla.tvade about us. Who can judge them now or later and ful,ly understand this. which has gone by so swif.tly and S<l suddenly? \'Happy my brother?\ asked Carlyle. \First of all, what differ- ence is it whether thou art 'happy or not! Today becomes Yesterday so fast, all Tomorrows become YeS!· terdays; and then there is- no ques· tion whatever of the 'happiness' but quite another question. Nay, thou hast such a sacred pity left at least for thyself, thy very pains, once gone over in.to Yesterday, become joys to thee. Besides, thou know- est not whilit heavily bl-essedness and indispensable sanative virtue was in them; thou shalt only know it af.ter many days, when thou art siping. versity and took on a news func- 2. Make others feel at ease •by tion. The periodical, like Alice in Wonderland, added an inch to its making them feel wanted. height <lnly to shrink agl!lin. 3. Refrain from asking :personal The first issue of 1884 clearly and intimate question.s and do not showed the ln:fiuence of the Gilded discuss them in publi~. Age. Bet\veen sickly green covers 4. Exemplify good taste by not were reams of material composed losing control of one's temper and in a grandiose fashion and printed \by not making unkind remarks in ·an elaborate style of type. It about another.\ was to() ghastly. With the third 5. Avoid cliques that distinctly issue the cover turned yellow. exclude desirable friends. 'l'he nex.t radical change to take All in the Dates place in the editing of t:he period· For .better and quicker Service Ill C!lothea Cleaning and Shoe Rebuild- ID~t-at no higher cost than elae- wli~ Ol'OII DA.Y SEB'Vl<JE ANY DA'2\ \Cambridge and Oxford held a ical occurred in 1890. The Con- velocipede race here today. The ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;_;;;;;;;;;~~~~~~================~ winner covered the fifty miles in i four hours averaging 12% miles an 11our.\-June 11, 1875. Five-Day Week Rejection of the proposed five day week at the Massachusetts In- · stitute of Technology was inade by the faculty of M. I. T. one week ago Wednesday. Literary Groups Predominant in Scholarship VISIT The MOHAWK TAVERN Clams and Oysters OUR SPECIALTY 322 State Street Next to Overhead Crossin9 MUSIC by Rankine Hinman fortieth anniversary of the Concor- diensis. That year Its editor-in-chief, H. Ra:lph Knight '17, author of \The Dutchman's Song,\ announced a new policy. Henceforth the maga- zine was to appear on Mondays,. Thursdays, and Saturdays as a four column, two to ten page newspaper. There was to be a literary supple-. Sunday Organ Recital ment ·every fortnight. The editor Toccata and Fugue, D miiwr. Bach stated that there would .be frequent. 'Slavonic Dance No. 8 ••.•• Dvoralt cuts and cartoons. Bilhuuette ................. Dvorak In 1919 the paper was made up Goi.Jlln Dance . . . . . . . . . . . . Dv\rak .in five columns and issued twice a· Indian· ·Lame11t . . . . . . . . . . . Dvorak week, on Mondays and Fridays. Largo und 1-'iuale, \:-;ew World\ Th 1 ks Symphony . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dvoralt e year 19 9 also mar the orig- •Dr. '.ridmarsh ins of many news stories which Four BilJlkal Songs •..... Dvurak have appeared within the past' Lillian Rus:; years upon the front pages of the. • * 'bi-weekly. The first issue bore a In the sensuous rather than in- :two column head which read, tellectual or even emotional out- \Spring Term Begins With Two· pouring of Dvorak's genius is re- New Deans, Ellery and Garis.\ An vealed the humble origin from inch streamer across the Septem-. which he struggled to acquire a her 28, 1928 issue decla:red, \Pres!-. musical education and eventually to dent Richmond Resigns!\ Five p.roduce some of the noblest expres- years later the May sec()nd issue s10ns we have of the folk music of told of how Dean Ellery was made his native Bohemia. His unsophis- acting president. ticated music, simple and definite, \Daily Hori'or\ reflects his peasant boyhood, the The November 16, 1928 issue of' melodious existence of his compan- the Concordiensis was unique. The ions singing at their work, dancing paper was inserted in a pink sheet after church on Sunday, often, he entitled \Daily Horror.\ One of the: tells us, \without cessation until ears on the sheet claimed that it' early the following morning.\ contained 'all the nudes that fit we print.' That sheet appeared be-· Dv()rak's Blunder fore the Hamilton football game,' With unthinking doggedness he and the idea was never used aga:in .. persisted in the face of the almost This; the fifty-seventh year, of unsurmounta;ble obstacles that the Concordiensis has been one of poverty thrust upon him. At one the milestones of its progress. Last• time he wrote, scored, and had the Fall the paper added an inch to its village band play an original polka height and a column to its width. with the hope it might procure him 'On January 9, HlS<t the editor-in- some financial ru>sistance. Although chief announced a permanent edi- hEo possessed an amazing instinct torial policy, the results of which for orchestration which has subse- have been discussed all over the. quently brought him recognition as United States. one of the greatest exponen.ts of · the art, nevertheless he overlooked one of its most elementary prin- ciples; he failed to score the trum- pets as transposing instruments. ----c.---- NEWS ABOUT ALUMNI Charles Haskell, '27, former edi- The resulting fiasco was at once tor-in-chief of The Concordiensis,- humorous, ironic, and tragic. and member of the Lambda Chi His 'Slavonic Dances, of which Alpha fraternity, is now on the edi- Dr. Tidrnarsh will .play the Eighth, torial staff of the Schenectady Ga- were the first composition to hring zette. He was formerly sports edi- him recognition from the world at tor of the Saratoga \Saratogian.\ large. An intensely national ideal- Arthur W. Hepner, '35, former iza~ion of folk spirit, they possess a music editor of the Concordiensis, s<>hd and well-knit harmonization is one ·Of the music critics for the adorned by all the resources of New York Post where his signed musical culture. We have heard criticisms appear with those of Miss Russ <lffer a group of Dvorak's Samuel Chotzinoff, music editor, Biblical songs before. She possesses who lectured at Union while Hep- more than a pleasing voice: she ner was on the cam:pus. sin?s with an artistry and sincerity Nigel P. Altman, '33, former pres- Which fully express the simple !dent of the Mountebanks and just beauty and lofty ex.pression of these released from the road company unusual works. of \The Double DO<lr\ which was Symphony Concert Snnday purchased by the movies and closed, visited the campus Wednes- We caH the attention of those day and Thursday as the guest of who enjoy symphonic music to the Mr. Milton M. Enzer. concert which the Tri-City Orches- Weekend visitors on the campus tra will give Sunday evening at included: Harry Rosltzke, '31, for- the Mont Pleasant High School un- mer editor-in-chief of the Idol, now der the direction of Edward Rice. at Harvard studying for a Ph. D. Their program includes Haydn's degree in English on a fellowship; s·econd Symphony and the Mozart Codman Hislop, '31, campus play- \Eine Kleine Nachtmuslk.'' wright, Idol editor, and assistant in the English department, who is working for his degree at Colum- bia; and John A. Sanford, '31, for- mer instructor in English who is convalescing and getting ready to retum to Harvard t<l complete his work for an advanced degree in English. FROST & REYNOLDS Printers Exclusive representatives for Shaw-Walker ''Built like a Skyscraper\ Oft'lce Equipment Indexing Fire Folders And Supplies 430 SMITH ST. Phone 2-7871 NICHOLAUS Across from State Theater THE OLD RELIABLE For 42 Years FOOD and DRINKS Official U. C. Photographers Portrait and Commerclal Photographing THE WHITE STUDIO 215 State Street Union College Representative T. WHIPPLE, Chi Psi HENRY•s BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . ' . • • • • • • a Gazette Press a • • • • • • • • • • • • • • j ~ ~ . ~ . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • wiser!\ We shall walt then and see what has been wrought In the infinitesi- SchC>lastic ratings as announced by Registrar . William M. Smith of LaFayette College, pertaining to the various extra-curricular organiza- tions, including sports on the cam- pus. show the literary groups pre- dominant in academie attainment. l!.===================;;;;;;;========;;;;;\.1 • • • 1 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

... Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, .A!PRIL 13, 1934 Nine Opens Spring ·sports Season T·omorrow at Army Hatfield to Use Sophomore Battery to Stop the Soldiers ON ALEXANDER FIELD By GEORGE R. CORY, JR. HAL HAS A SURPRISE FOR THE BOYS- It is pretty much an open secret that Hal Wittner has· been o-ut scouting for line coaches for some time. Now I am informed that he has caught one, or ·maybe two, run- ning around loose. The all-powerful Trackmen Are Pointing For Opening Meet Next Week ~------------------- I Some time ago, I SUP1D'ested to my tax committee has sanctioned the . . . !Dan on the squad, and, in spite of oo Griswold, on Mound, Backed his size, is a very valuable asset to. new botis, Clem Hathaway, that I· cost which is rumored to be in the· Time TI'i!tlS to Be Held Here h would like to write a sports column neighborhood of $120{). The story tn the haH .mile; the mile, the two m.iJe ,the shot put, the discus, the high jump and perhaps the pole vault. The javelin and the bvoad jump should be close in the field By Strong Garnet Nine; t e Garnet nine. The position of for· the r·ema;nder of the·· year·. Clem· should break in about a week. Tomorrow Afternoon for , · shot·tstop has been entrusted to the ~ Hitting of Team Improved care of another veteran from the doesn't know whether I can write There is no reason why we should Meet With Swarthmore By WILLIAl\1 E. FERGUSON Leaving bright and early tomor- row morning with the best baseball team that he has had since he came to Union, Coach Elliott Hat- field appears very optimistic about the outcome of the seation's open- Ing game with the Army at West Point. The last Garnet victory over the Cadets was in 1931 when Union gave the soldiers a 10 to 4 trounc- ing. Although the team has bad about two week's work outside, the Gar- net mentor realizes that the field- ing was a little sloppy. He feels, however, that if Guy Griswold and Jimmy Loomis can give him good pitching, the prospects for a victory are bright. Griswold on Motmd Coo.ch Hatfield plans to start Griswold in the box with Loomis covering left field. If Army starts hitting Griswold, these two men can be switched bringing Loomis to the mound. Both of these men are good pitchers ana are heavy and consistent hitters. First base will be covered by the veteran Lefty Clarke who has :proved himself more than capable as a fielder and an inspiration to any infield. The keystone sack will be taken care of by midget Mike Fwre, a newcomer to the varsity squad this year. Mike, according to .the coach, is the best all round '33 varsity, \Chip\ Dain who has a sports column and neither do I. no-t have better football coaching improved his batting and who is But my job with one of the local facilities. Amherst is going into . reliable at either tihort or third sheets forces me to keep in pretty. football in a ·big way. Last fall the base. close touch with aU the athletic' Sabrinas had 110 freshmen out for Cadwallader at Third Dave Cadwallader, a sophomore, will cover the hot corner. In prac- tice games during the past week and a half he has shown himself to be a real third baseman and a slugger of note. The position of catcher wiH be played by AI Steven- son, another sophomore, who has been doing a good job in the back- stop position, and who, although he was in a batting slump the earlier part of the week, has proven him- self to be a hard hitter. As was announced at the begin- ning of the season, Semerad will cover center field. His work with the willow ·has been more than sa:tisfactory and he can drop a bat- ted ball five feet in front of home plate from deep center field. Cap- tain Garrison in right field com- pletes the Union line-up. He is steady and reliable as an outfielder and should prove a capable leader of the Garnet varsity. The batting order tomorrow will be: Fiore, Garrison, Cadwallader, Semerad, Loomis, Griswold, Steven- son, Dain, and Clark. OUTING CLUB NOTICE There will be a meeting of the Outing Club in Middle Section, II South College Sunday at 2:45, fol- lowed by a hike. teams, and with the Athletic De- football, and it is said that some of partment. the yearlings could do a much bet- Perhaps the best thing to do is ter job on the gridiron than some say what the content of this col- of the varsity men. umn wm be. In the first place, on. lF HE CAN GET BY SWARTH- the Friday before each track meet MORE AND WILLIAMS- Bill Ketz and yours truly will get together and try to predict the Bill n.etz thinks -his ti\ael!;: score. Sometimes this can be done team can go through the season .pretty well but there is always a undefeated if he can get the chance for a bad mistake. Time boys by Swarthmore and Wll- alone :will tell how good we are. Iiams. . It looks now as if the In the second place, I am going to Garnet can talte the Pennsyl- try to present some of the \dirt\ vanians by ten or fifteen points. that has not been ih this paper be- A few Union College records fore about the various teams, and should .fall in this meet. . The what is .going on in the Athletic high jump may go .. So may the Department. discus. Emory Burton is pretty if anyone should care te write a sure to top the pole vault re- letter to this column, it will be cord before the season ends. published if there is anything Douw. Beekman's. shot. put worthwhile in it. mark which he made In 1921 should alS{) go by the boards. WHY BARNA WENT OUT FOR LACROSSE- A short tin1e ago, up in the office In the gym, Ed Barna told Bob Oppenheim that any- body who went out for lacrosse could make the team. Oppy didn't lik,e it, and gave the big athlete from the Phi Delt house five bucks to one that he could- n't make the team. Ed is now first string goalie for the stick- men, and I suspect that Oppy is out a fin. A BALL TEAM FOR A CHANGE Elliott Hatfield's ball tossers are shoWing some stuff this year. For a change there does not appear to be any holes in the infield. Guy Griswold is a real pitcher, and Lefty Clark and.,.)im Loomis can also serve them up in a way which should bewilder opposing batters. In 1931 Union handed the .Army a 10-4 trouncing. Maybe the boys can repeat this year. It would be a fine start. ,events ,while the hurdle races and By GEORGE R. CORY,. JR. the quarter mile should be good The Garnet track team is confi- J,\aces in the running events, with dent of a victory over Swarthmore Swarthmor-e having the edge. next Saturday, c~:fter looking over Perhaps the most surpr-ising the scores and the times of the thing so far, is the inabi.Jity of Bilt Johns Hopkins-Swarthmore meet Waldron, star high hurdler to get whici1 took place Saturday. The Into shape. He is having consider- Pennsylvanians won by a 73% to, able difficulty ·getting his stride be- 52%. Last year Union lost to the tween hurdles. The tall timber top- latte1· 73 to 53. per did not report for practice un- In spite of the fact that Charley til a·bout three weeks after his team Krull and Leon Saeiwitz are run- mates, because of illness, and this ning the sprints for the Garnet this ·ts probably the reason for his poor year, Swa·rthmore is an almost sure showing to date, Bi:ll Ketz does not whiner in both the 100 and 220 not seem to be worried about him dashes. casey, who took first in at all, and is expecting him to snap both of these events last year, is out of It any ·day now. back again, and he is real class. Shot M<m. Good He competed in the indoor I. C. A. A. A. A. meet this winter, and a!- Joe Milano·, who was expected to though he did not place in this. heave the shot close to forty feet, meet, ·he was right behind the best has not done much better than tn the east. thirty-six to cj.ate. The big sopho- more should do much better than Time Trials To.morrow he has thus far, but even if he is If the weather permits, Bill Ktez not ready by the opening meet, Leon will have his final time trials to- Naguszewski and Charley Krull morrow afternoon. The Garnet have been tossing the sixteen pound mentor plans to take a squad of weight in the neighborhood of for- twenty-three or four on the trip ~y feet. Milano has also- been unim- with him, and the results .of these pressive in the low hurdle event. trials will tell who makes the trip. Leon Saeiwitz has not been click- It will be easier to tell just how ing as well as was expected in the many points Union can score sprints. The former Schenectady against Swarthmore after the Penn- High School sprinter should, when sylvanians meet Amherst in their he is at his best, give Krull a run second encounter of the season to- for his money, but this year his morrow. As things stand now, sophomore running mate has been Union appea;rs to be a sure winner leaving him in the dust. National League Hm·seshoe Tournament American League Horseshoe Tournament Theta Chi Delta Delta Alpha Phi Delta Sigma Phi Delta Sigma Kappa Theta Nu Lambda Kappa Phi Gamm~ Beta Neutrals Delta Chi Psi Phi Chi Delta Upsilon Delta Theta Chi Sigma Epsilon Chi Alpha Nu Delta Theta Pi Theta 4-16 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-24 Noon 4-25 Noon 4-27 Noon 4-20 Noon Sigma 4-16 Noon 4-19 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-25 Noon 4-25 Noon 4-27 Noon 4-20 Noon Delta Chi 5-1 Noon 5-2 Noon 5-4 Noon 5-4 Eve 5-5 Noon 5-7 Noon 5-3 Noon Chi 5-1 Noon 5-2 Eve 5-4 Noon 5-5 Noon 5~5 Noon 5-7 Noon . 5-3 Noon Chi 4-16 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-20 Noon 4-30 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-24 Noon Kappa 4-16 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-20 Noon 4-30 Noon 4-27 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-24 Noon Psi 5-1 Noon 5-1 Eve 5-3 Noon 5-7 Eve 5-5 Eve 5-5 Eve 5-4 Eve Sigma 5-1 Noon 5-1 Eve 5-3 Noon. 5-7 Eve 5-7 Noon 5-5 Eve 5-4 Eve Delta 4-18 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-16 Noon 4-19 Noon 4-27 Noon 4-24 Noon 4-30 Noon Theta Nn 4-19 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-16 Noon 4-19 Noon 4-27 Noon 4-24 Noon 4-30 Noon Phi 5-2 Noon 5-1 Eve 5-1 Noon 5-2 Eve 5-7 Noon 5-4 Eve 5-7 Eve Epsilon 5-2 Eve 5-1 Eve 5-1 Noon 5-2 Eve 5-7 Noon 5-4 Eve '5-7 Eve Delta 4-23 Noon 4-20 Noon 4-16 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-19 Noon 4-30 Noon 4-25 Noon Lambda 4-23 Noon 4-20 Noon 4-16 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-19 Noon 4-30 Noon 4-25 Noon Chi 5-4 Noon 5-3 Noon 5-1 Noon 5-2 Noon 5-2 Eve 5-7 Eve 5-5 Noon Chi Alpha 5-4 Noon 5-3 Noon 5-1 Noon 5-2 Noon 5-2 Eve 5-7 Eve 5-5 Noon --------- ------ ----·---- Alpha 4-24 Noon 4-30 Noon 4-19 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-16 Noon 4-20 Noon 4-26 Noon Kappa 4-25 Noon 4-30 Noon 4-19 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-26 Noon Phi Delta 5-4 Eve 5-7 Eve 5-2 Eve 5-2 Noon 5-1 Noon 5-3 Noon 5-5 Eve Nu 5-5 Noon 5-7 Eve 5-2 Eve 5-2 Noon 4-25 Noon 5-4 Noon 5-5 Eve Delta 4-25 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-27 Noon 4-19 Noon 4-16 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-23 Noon Phi Gamnu 4-25 Noon 4-27 Noon. 4-27 Noon 4-19 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-23 Noon Upsilon 5-5 Noon 5-5 Eve 5-7 Noon 5-2 Eve 5-1 Noori 5-2 Noon 5-4 Noon Delta 5-5 Noon 5-7 Noon 5-7 Noon 5-2 Eve 4-25 Noon 5-2 Noon 5-4 Noon. Phi Sigma 4-27 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-24 Noon 4-30 Noon 4-20 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-17 Noon Beta 4-27 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-24 Noon 4-30 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-17 Noon DPlta 5-7 Noon 5-5 Eve 5-4 Eve 5-7 Eve 5-3 Noon 5-2 Noon 5-1 Eve Theta Pi 5-7 Noon 5-5 Eve 5-4 Eve 5-7 Eve 5-4 Noon 5-2 Noon 5-1 Eve Phi Delta I 4-20 Noon I 4-24 Noon 4-30 Noon 4-25 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-17 Noon Neu- 4-20 Noon 4-24 Noon 4-30 Noon 4-25 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-17 Noon Theta 5-3 Noon 5-4 Eve 5-7 Eve 5-5 Noon 5-5 Eve 5-4 Noon 5-1 Eve trals 5-3 Noon 5-4 Eve 5-7 Eve 5-5 Noon 5-5 Eve iH Noon 5-1 Eve BASEBALL LEAGUES Noon games 12:45 sharp. li.:ve. games 7:00 sharp. Northern Eastern Southern Western 1. Lambda Chi Alpha 1. Phi Gamma Delta 1. Kappa Sigma 1. Neutrals 2. Phi Delta Theta 2. Sigma Phi 2. Chi Psi 2. Delta Chi 3. Sigma Chi 3. Alpha Delta Phi 3. Theta Delta Chi 3. Phi Sigma Delta 4. Theta Nu Epsilon 4. Beta Theta Pi 4. Kappa Alpha 4. Delta Upsilon 5. Kappa Nu 5. Delta Phi 5. Psi Upsilon 5. Alpha Phi Delta Northern League -games on Diamond No. 1, Alexander Field. Southern League games on Diamond No, 3, CouneU Field. Eastern League games on Diamond No. 2, Alexander Field. Western League games on Diamond No. 4, Council Field. Northern League Baseball Tournament Southern League Baseball Tournament Lambda Chi Phi Delta Sigma Chi Theta Nu Kappa Nu Alpha Theta Epsilon Kappa Sigma Chi Psi 'l'heta Delta Chi Kappa Alpha Psi Upsilon ' Lambda Chi 4-16 Noon 4-20 Noon 4-25 Noon 4-27 Noon Kappa 4-16 Noon 4-20 Noon 4-25 Noon 4-27 Noon Alpha 5-2 Noon 5-3 Noon 5-7 Eve 5-8 Noon Sigma 5-2 Noon 5-3 Noon 5-7 Eve 5-8 Noon - Phi Delta 4-16 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-26 Noon Chi 4-16 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-26 Noon Theta 5-2 Noon 5-1 Noon 5-4 Noon 5-7 Noon Psi 5-2 Noon 5-1 Noon 5-4 Noon 5-7 Noon Sigma 4-20 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-24 Noon Theta 4-20 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-24 Noon Chi 5-3 Noon 5-1 Noon .~ 5-2 Eve 5-4 Eve· Delta Obi 5-3 Noon 5-1 Noon 5-2 Eve 5-4 Eve Theta Nu 4-25 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-19 Noon Kappa 4-25 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-19 Noon Epsilon 5-7 Eve 5-4 Noon 5-2 Eve 5-1 Eve Alpha 5-7 Eve 5-4 Noon 5-2 Eve 5-1 Eve Kappa 4-27 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-24 Noon 4-19 Noon Psi 4-27 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-24 Noon 4-19 Noon Nu 5-8 Noon 5-7 Noon 5-4 Eve 5-1 Eve Upsilon 5-8 Noon 5-7 Noon 5-4 Eve 5-1 Eve Easte1·n League Baseball Tournament Western League Baseball Tournament Phi Gamma Sigma Phi Alpha. Delta Beta Theta Delta Phi Neutrals Delta Chi Phi Sigma Delta Alpha Phi Delta Phi Pi Delta Upsilon Delta Phi 4-16 Noon 4-20 Noon 4-25 Noon 4-27 Noon 4-16 Noon 4-20 Noon 4-25 Noon 4-27 Noon Gamma Delta 5-2 Noon 5-3 Noon 5-7 Eve 5-8 Noon Neutrals 5-2 Noon 5-3 Noon 5-7 Eve 5-8 Noon Sigma 4-16 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-26 Noon Delta 4-16 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-26 Noon Phi 5-2 Noon 5-1 Noon 5-4 Noon 5-7 Noon Obi 5-2 Noon 5-1 Noon 5-4 Noon 5-7 Noon Alpha 4-20 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-24 Noon Phi 4-20 Noon 4-18 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-24 Noon Delta Phi 5-3 Noon 5-1 Noon 5-2 Eve 6-4 Eve ·Sigma Delta 5-3 Noon 5-1 Noon 5-2 Eve 5-4 lpve Beta 4-25 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-19 Nooh :Delta • 4-25 Noon 4-23 Noon 4-17 Noon 4-19 Noon Theta PI 5-7 E,:ve 5-4 Noon 5-2 Eve 5-1 Eve Upsilon 5-7 Eve 5-4 Noon 5-2 Eve 15-1 Eve Delta 4-27 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-24 Noon 4-19 Noon Alpha. 4-:2-7 Noon 4-26 Noon 4-24 Noon 4-19 Noon Phi 5-8 Noon 5-7 Noon 5-4 Eve 5-1 Eve Phi Delta 5-8 Noon 5-7 Noon 5-4 Eve 5~1 ljlve p 'B= I Be I i I l Will I :M l F \ I the 1 such theSI only Juni I I ing, the FoUl broa 12:{)( fron tutl< play Riel the east play was Ken NeVI criti grai Pl and• Phil whe llr ( thes of t of t tern \' ChEll rcn1 mer patJ deli wat: She His the Car alsc Ho1 Ro( in t }, of · sho dar Thi the gin the ga~ wru an< me del :E the sm an( dUI the pia on! A ~ tio thE nu at we fr< Sc Fu ...

two the pole and Bill get be- top- un- this poor not him to feet, than than is for- the hen run his been on n n ' ,· ; ! I I THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1934. Five Famous Band Leader at Piano Rising Young Maestro Neutrals Nose Out Tennis Men Still Dr. Day Advocates Small Fijis to Win Title Drilling I nd 0 0 rs CoJlege Athletic League Ouderkirk Sinks Shot in Last Seconds of Play to Clinch Intra-Mural Championship Dr. Frank Parker Day, retired To Meet Haverford, Swarth- president, advocated the formation . of a new Eastern intercollegiate more Away Next Weekend; athletic conference in an address at Swarthmore College Wednesday. Veterans to Carry BUI·den · The proposed league would include Union, Swarthmere, Haverford, Amherst, Bowdoin, Wesleyan, Wil- By defeating the Fijis Friday The varsity tennis team is look- Iiams, and Hamilton. Most of these night, March 30, 22 to 21, the Neu-. ing forward to the beginning of .Its teams appear on Union's athletic trai basketball team won the Intra- outdoor drills which are due to programs and they are all small colleges of Unien's size. mmal Basketball championship for start next week. The ·racquet In 1930 before the National Col- the 1S34 ~:~easun. The winning bas- viielders have been playing indoors legiate Athletic Association 'or.. · ket came when Ouderkirk tossed for the past four weeks in prepara.- Day first advocated this plan ef a the ball through the net from the tion for their opening matches small college league to do away with commercialism, increase . center of th ecourt with but thirty- against Haver.ford and Swarthmore sportsmanship, use of fulltime .fac- flve .seconds of playing left. This next Friday and Saturday. Both uity coaches, also admittance by in- was the second basket he had made of these matches will be played vitation <to insure decent specta- .n the three championship games, away from home. The fh·st home tors) by endowing the athletic de- Both teams were on the defen· contest is scheduled for April 27, partments as other departments ef ~ive duling the first half and the when the Garnet faces Amherst. a college. 3codng was nominal. The Phi· Captain Harry Chrysler, Jack The plan was then greeted with Gamma Delta quintet was function- Moffett, and Sam Keats, the only: \Da~ Dream\-since t~en the Uni- ing smoothly and had secured an veter·ans of the 1933 team will carry; vers1ty of Pennsylvania, Columbia 8 to 7 l.ead over the Neutrals when the main burden for Union in in- and other coHeges have adopted the whistle for half time sounded. tercollegiate competition this sea- the P!an to the extent of faculty Lacro . s·s·e Season To Ne;ther team at any point in the son, Joe Cohen is the farthest ad- coachmg staffs. ,Play Vvas more than four points vanced of the rest of the squad -===========-:.:.--=-:..:·:::-::; Open W . 1 ·.·th Hobart· .i.head of the other so closely was and should earn a place on the i each man guarded. team, while the other positions re- Coming out for the third qua1 ter, main open at the present with the Neutral team began a steady Austin Fox, star football and Team Is Gradually Rounding .but deadly attack on the Fijis hockey player, Johnny Roberts, Al basket. The Phi Ga:ms, unable to Warner and George McGee putting Into Shape in Preparation match point for point, trailed their up strong fights for these places. For Opening Game April 21' .;>pponents by three counters at the Of these eight men, Chrysler, -\lose ef the third period. The play Keats, Roberts and Warner are became exceptionally fast with seniors, Moffett and Fox, juniors, ESTABLISHED 1830 FJ.,ETCHER HENDERSON After more than a week of in- ·most of the players performing well and Cohen and McGee are sopho- tensive outdoor drills under the above their usual style of play. mores. The loss of the first four .guidance of Coach Blll Harkness, Defiant passes by Coon, Lambeth, men on the 1933 squad, Reggie Wal- the lacrosse team ls gradua!lly .l.nd Krizek enabled the non~frater- rath, Frank Higgins, Ed Minch and rounding into shape and the start- nity team to gain its lead. Sedgie Griffith left much to be de- ing team for the opening encounter Wilson and Griffing dropped the sired especially in doubles play. of the season with Hobart, sched- ball over the rim in the first sec- Walrath and Higgins teamed to- uled for one week from ,tomorrow onds of play in the final period to gether, and Ed Minch was Jack 'Battle of Music' To Be Feature of Prom PROM TICKET SALE OPENS at the home of the latter institu- again place the Fijis in the lead. Moffett's partner. This lead was held until Ouder- tion, is practically certain to be kirk's chance shot ended the game composed of a number .of veterans with a one-point victory for the who have seen service for the Gar- Neutrals. Victory seemed assured , ....................... . Willard Alexander, \Smartest Music on the Air,\ and Fletcher Henderson to Play Tickets for Junior Prom will go on sale Monday and can be purchased from any member- of the Junior Prom Committee. The price will be $6 per couple until May 7 and $7 if bought after that date. Tickets for stags net in previous years. t th f1 Captain Chauncey Foote will ev- o e ghting fraternity quintet idently hold down the outside home and the overwhelming fashion in .position while Stan Mower, '35, which the Neutrals took the game seems to have clinched the inside from them left the spectators stun- : THE FARM a !THE COUNTRY CLUB: : REST AU RANTS = ned for several seconds after the . . = •••••••••••••••••••••••• (Continued from Page l) the Cornell house parties, He met such a royal reception at both of these institutions that he is the only •band playing at the Syracuse Junior Prom, ,being held this even- ing, and has been engaged to play the Navy Day Ball at Cornell the Fourth of June. His music will be will be $4. · Members of the committee are: Charles Dain, Duncan Mc- Nab and Stanley Mower, Beta Theta Pi House; Ralph Semerad and Donald Moulton, Delta Up- silon House; John Moffett and Richard Davis, Phi Delta Theta House; Raymond MacDowell, Lambda Chi Alpha House. home post. At present Bergman final whistle had pierced the deaf- and TaY'lor, a sophomore and a ening din ending one of the mo0st senior respectively, have the inside exciting and thrilling games played tracks for first and second attack by finalists in inter-mural competi- positions. Taylor starred on the tion. The summary follows: 1933 team. Bill Fraser, '34, will again hold down his old position at Neutrals (22) FG FP l'ts center where he has starred for the Garnet sticlt-wielde~s for two Rodbielski ............ 0 0 0 seasons I To Play Seven Games Kazmierczak ........... 0 1 1 Ouderkirk •• 0 •• 0 •••• 0. 1 2 4 2 0 4 broad<:ast tonight from 11:30 to • R 12:()0 over Station WSYR, Syracuse. ElectriC . a·tes Are from the Junior Prom of that insti- Two more vete~ans of the 1933 team, Bob Oppenheim and \Bus\ Williams, both members of the sen- lor class, are slated to start in the defense positions. \Scotty\ McNab, '35, another veteran of the 1933 team, is expected to start the season at his old position, cover-point. A three-cornered battle exists between Clem Smith, '34,. Joe Agius, '35, and Fred Pasquerrella, '3l;i for the point position with Smith holding the Naguzewski •••••• 0 •••• Coon •••••• 0 ••••••••••• Lambeth 2 1 5 2 0 4 tution. While in the South he D\ d b Ort played nightly over Station WRVA, Iseusse y on • 0 •••••••••••• Krizek ................ 2 0 4 Totals 9 4 22 ............... Richmond, -the keystone station of the south for the National Broad- <:asting Company. It was while playing over this station that he was recommended by \Nick\ Kenny, of the New York Mirror, New York City's severest radio critic, as one of the best air pro- grams of ·the east. Mr. M. Orton Tells Bennett's Class in Public Utilities of Home, Commercial Rates Phi Gamma Delta (21) FG Fl' l'ts Brandow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 3 Wilson ........ _ ...... . 2 0 4 Griswold ............. . 2 3 7· Prior to his southern tour, Alex- ander played at the \Anchorage Philadelphia's smartest night club, where he broadcast 11 times week- I~, over Station WCAU. Many of these ·broadcasts became features of the Dixie network of 56 stations of the Columbia Broadcasting Sys- tem. Played at Roof l'ierre Willard Alexander and his or- chestra have played at many of the rendezvous of the elite. Last sum- mer, he ·played for ten weeks to the patrons of the Roof Pierre in Phila- delphia. The summer before, he was featured at the exclusive Hotel Shelburne in Atlantic City, N. J. His music featured the opening of the new Crystal Room of the Ritz- Carlton in Philadel.phia. He has also played engagements at the Hotel Pennsylvania and on the Roof Garden of the Hotel Waltm! in the same city. At present, Alexander is on tour of the north, but wm return south shortly after Pr<>m to play the final dances on the southern campuses. This summer he will play either at the exclusive Cavalier Hotel, Vir- ginia Beaches, Va., or he will go in the Ancllorage Club £or a years en- gagement. The Prom Committee was very fortunate in hearing Alex- ander on his first northern engage- ment at the Roof Pierre in Phila- delphia, Saturday evening. Fletcher B;enderson will supply the contrasting music to the smooth melodious rhythms of Alex- ander. His band needs no intro- duction to Union men, this being the third Junior Prom that he has played, and incidentally this is the only band that has ever done this. ALUMNI SPONS.OR CONCERT The Schenectady Alumni Associa- tion will present the Glee Club and the Garnet Goblins in the third an- nual concert and dance to be held at the Mohawk Golf Club two weeks from tonight. The prooeeds from the affair will go into the Schenectady .Alumn:i Scholarship Fund. edge at the present time, Ed Barna, By WILLIAM L. DRAPER '34, is ·the leading candidate for the Griffing ....... _ ...... . Keens ................ , 3 1 7 0 0 0 Professor William W. Bennet's goal position. class in Public Utilities entertained Six intercollegiate contests and Mr. M. F. Orton, the Director of one with the alumni are scheduled Research in the Public Service for the 11}34 lacrosse team. With Commission of New York, last the exceptions of the Hobart and Wednesday evening in Washburn Stevens encounters, the latter Hall. Mr. Orton's talk was prlnci- scheduled for May 19, all games pally confined to electric residential will be played at home. The other rates in New York with respect to teams on Union's schedule are: present day trends and develop- Tufts, April 28; M. I. T., May 5; ments. C. C. N. Y., May 12; and the Alumni Wittke ...... , ........ . 0 0 0 Totals ..... , ........ . 8 PARK LAUNDRY, INC. 105 Clinton St. (J,abor Temple) J'HONE 4·9011 5 College Bundles a Specialty 21. The speaker brought out the fact ~;n~J~u~n~e~9·;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;~ that in former times there was no differentiation between residential and commercial rates. The com- mercial users objected strenuously because they were such heavy us- ers, and eventually a distinction came to be made. Few communities now have the same rate for both residential and commercial con- sumption. Mr. Orton mentioned several dif- ferent types of rating used today In many parts of the country. In most communities, some sort of meter rate is used. It may be a straight rate type, or- it may be a block rate type with a very low drop with increased consumption. Some communities have used the three meter system since electricity began to be used for many differ- ent purposes. One meter with a high rate was used to register lighting, one for power, and one with a low rate for cooking. For the sake of economy, and to pre- vent the question of how the elec- tricity should be used, this method has been abandoned in most cases. Two other methods were mentioned l>y :Mr. Orton, the area type rate based upon the square feet of floor space for the base charge, and the rate based upon counted rooms, the type now used in Schenectady. All these types of rate'! are beginning to disappear in New York, though they are just developing in many other states. These rates outlive their usefullness after a rate can be reduced to a certain point. New York is being rapidly stand- ardized under one uniform system. Independent companies are disap- pearing, and there are only four rate districts now, as compared with twenty before the last reVif!ion. Schenectady•s Popular Rendezvous GOLD'S Restaurant - Tap Room - Delicatessen .. Elegant Liquid Hardware .. ···~·········~·································~·: • • . •· • • • • : IT'S 'PURE! IT'S DEUCIOUS : • • : IT'S WHOLESOME : • • • • : Serve Colonial lee Cream at all Social Events : • • • and Every Week • • • • • I Colonial I • • 5 ICE CREAM 5 • • 5 THERE IS A DEALER NEARBY ! • • • • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ! HALF SOLES ........ 79c Fro-joy Ice Cream has been Housekeep- FULL SOLES Including Heels awarded the \QQod ing\ seal of approval, carefully awarded for purity, ciesnllness RUBBER or CREPE and quality of Ingredients • ·~::t .... $2.50 At Your Dealer•s Store or PHONE 4-3121 ROSENDALE Including Heels SEE R. 0. NELSON KAPPA ALPHA LODGE TELEPHONE 4-812Z THE WALLACE CO. Phone 4-771 I Basement FLOWER SHOP Schenoota.dy'a Telegraphic Florist Flowers of Quality 124 Ja.y i!treet Phone 4-0MO WE'RE READY WITH OUR NEW SPRING CLOTHES WHEN YOU ARE Free Swing Suits ...... . Separate Sport Jackets .$25.00 .$15.00 Jai Alai Sport Shoes ...... $5.00 Slacks ................ $5.00 up NUSB.UM'S 447-451 STATB ST. \C'mout Sometime\ AND SEE OUR MODEL DAIRY FARM AT DUANESBURG PINE GROVE DAIRY TELEPHONE 4-7741 WE CORDIALLY INVI'l'E OUR CJUSTOMERS AND THEIR FRIENDS TO DRIVE OUT AND SEE OUR FARM WHERE WE PRODUOE OUR OWN GRADE 'A' MILK

Six THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1934 Twentieth Annive1·sary of Fraternity This W ee·k Receive Graduate School Grants The Union chapter of the Phi Sigma Delta fraternity will cele- brate ib twentieth anniversary this weck-cnU Wllh a ~elle~ uf JOueial anu bu:;inc.;,; aclivitw:s. The fraternity will hulu an oven huu;:;c tumuu ow afternoon at the chapter hou:se, 1307 Union street, anu a formal dance to- IHott ow I!lghl al the .Shaker Ridge country dub. Pvl:owing a bn:;inc:;:; · meeting Sunday afternoon the fra- temtty will conclude it:s celebration · w1th an mfurmal <.lance at the Hotel · Van Curler, in the evening. The Union chapter was founded in Hl14 at the Albany Law School, gr:.~uuate department 0f Union, and in 1925 the headquarters was moved to Schenectady. The present chap- ter hou.oe has been occupied since 1932. The founders of the fraternity are: Benjamin Axekod, Maurice CHARLES S, BRIDG lUA S HARO·LD E. ELLITHOR:\i LOUIS REED TRIPP HENRY W. 'l'l'LLOCH Friedman, Abraham Rabiner, Ben- r----------------~ jarnin Shapiro, Edward Buxbaum, Irving Goldstein, Jacob Resnick, Henry Cohen, Mathew Oldstein, Nathan Sezitsky and Bernard Weiss. ------0-- -- ALPHA lUU SIGMA. DANCE Al·pha Mu Sigma fraternity will hold a closed dance tomorrow night at Silliman hall. The chaper- ones will be Mr. Milton M. Enzer, Mr. Philip Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Richard Yaguda, of Albany, and Dr. and Mrs. Louis Tischler, of Schenectady. DEAN'S llST ADDITIONS Two freshmen, William N. Owen and George J. Riley, have been added to the Dean's List which was published two weeks ago in The Concordiensis. George Murphy, '36, has a first grade average, and not a second grade as was published at that time. Final Examination Schedule 1933-1934 Monday, May 21, 9 A. M. Biology 21 Chemistry 31 Engineering Law French 1 Geology 1 History 23 Physics 11 Psychology 3 Spanish 1 Tuesday, May 22,9 A.M. *Biology 1 **Chemistry 1 Chemistry 21 ''**History of Art Types of Construction *The sections of Dr. Mavor and Dr. Dale will report to the Chem- istry Lecture Room. **The students preparing for medicine will report to the Chemistry Lecture Room. ***The students taking History of Art will report to Bailey Hall, 300. Wednesday, May 23, 9 A.M. Psychology 21 *The sections of Professor Bron- ner and Professor Mosley's sec- tion 6 will report to Bailey Hall, 300. **The sections of Professor March of Psychology 1 will re- port to Bailey Hall, 300. Thmsday, May 31, 9 A. M. The Bible Building Construction Chemistry 22 Economics 10 Electrical Engineering Labora- tory (Senior EE) English 1 (mid-year class) English 20 French 3 French 13 French 21 French 31 Greek 21 History 26 Latin 11 Mechanics (sophomore) Physics 1 Political Science 12 English 13 Friday, June 1, 9 A. M. French 5 (freshman) German 5 (freshman) Greek 2 History 30 Latin 21, 22 Mathematics 31 Physics 2 Physics 3 Spanish 5 (freshman) Surveying Thursday, May 24, 9 A. M. Economics 1 Economics 2 *English 1 Geology (senior E. E.) Reinforced Concrete *The sections of Mr. Carroll report to Bailey Hall, 300. The sections of Mr. 'Weeks Mr. Smith will report to Chemistry Lecture Room. Friday, May 25, 9 A. M. Biology 31 will and the *Drawing (freshman engineers) Economics 11 Electrical Engineering Theory <Junior) English 11 English 12 English 25 German i History 24 History 25 Latin 1 Mathematics 11 Mathematics 22 Philosophy 12 Phy;;ics 21 Phvsics 22 Poiitical Science 11 ''Students hking Drawing will rPport to Civil Engineering Bldg. Monday, May 28, 9 A. M. Economics 25 Electrical Engineering Labora-- tory <Junior EEl FrPnch 5 (sophomrel German 5 (sophomore) Mathematics 1 Mathematics 2 (mid-year class) Music 1 Physics 33 Political Science 31 Spanish 5 (sophomore) Stt uctural Design Tuesday, May 29, 9 A. M. Biology 1 <mid-year class) •History 1 Highway Engineering Mechanics <Junior) Physics 23 Physics 32 **Psychology 1 English 10 German 1 (mid-year class) German 2 (mid-year class> *Mathematics 2 Mathematics 21 Philosophy 11 Railroad Curves Structures *The sections of Professor Bur- kett and Mr. Ulrich will report to Bailey Hall, 300. Saturday, June 2, 9 A. M. Economics 21 • Electrical Engineering Theory <Senior EE> Elements of Electricity <Sopho- more> English 22 German 21, 31 History 1 (mid-year class) History 10 History 11 Political Science 10 Psychology 2 Psychology 11 Sanitary Engineer·ing Monday, June 4, 9 A. M. Biology 32 Electricity (Junior CEl English 21 English 24 Greek 13 History 21 Mathematics 12 Mathematics 24 Physics 31 Political Science 16 Psychology 22 Thermodynamics <Senior EEl Tuesday, June 5, 9 A. M. Biology 2 Biology 11 Chemistry 11 Chemistry 21 <BS in Chemistry) Economics 20 English 30 German 3 Latin 3 Philosophy 1 Political Science 13 Spanish 21, 31 Wednesday, June 6, 9 A. M. Chemistry 12 French 11 German 11 German 12, 13 Greek 12 Philosophy 2 Psychology 12 Spanish 11 Thm·sday, June 7, 9 A. M. German 2 Political Science 1 Steinmetz Great As Teacher, Says Berg h':! Socialism and wrote a good deal on the subJect. He was never an orthodox Socialist-rather the mod- ·erate kind who saw in American political methods, high finance, and factory managE'ment an interesting connection with the road to Social- \Stelnmetz's greatness-and he ism. Incidentally I leaoi'Iled that in was a gveat man-was in his abil- 1921 he offered his services as tech- ity as a teacher. He saw things in nical advisor to Lenin and that he a clearer way than anyone I have received from hi:tn a letter of . than!{S, met, and' he was able to explam \I have often been asked, 'What what he knew to the ordinary: did Steinmetz really contribute to mind,\ said Dean Ernst J. Berg of. engineering and has there ever the Engineering Division in a ra- been a greater mathematician? dio broadcast in honor of Charles The second queetion i~ easily an- Proteus .Steinmetz Saturday night. swered. Steinmetz himself would This broadcast was a part of the never claim to be a great m!ttb,enla- ex.ercises held this week ·in honor tician, much less the greatest. of the great scientist, one time pro- ·knew a great deal of mathematics, fessor of electrical engineering at and what he !mew he could use. Union, He was quite as much a physicist, Exhibits have been placed in a chemist and a Iinquist as he was stores on State street, and at the a mathematician. His important General Electric Company. In the work was in electrical engineering, program with Dean Berg's speech, though it cannot be said that he ran a record made of Steinmetz's opened up any new field or made voice more than ten years ago. fundamental discoveries or inven- \He was always anxious and able tions. to be helpful. His heart was full of \Yet he, more than anyone else, love for mankind and to know him was responsible for the truly mirac- was to love him and his memory,\ ulous advance in electrical engi- Dr. Berg said in speaking of Stein- neering during the first quarter of metz's life and achievements. this century. \Karl August Rudolf Steinmetz \Steinmetz appreciated the im- was born in Breslau, Germany, p<;>rtance of mathematical simplifi- April 8, 1865, and died as Charles cation (of physical laws) and de- Proteus Steinmetz in 1923. A span voted the best part of his life to of fifty-eight years of life is not ex- popularizing this method. He wrote ceptional with men of strong phy- paper after paper, book after book sique, but that Steinmetz should applying this method to all kinds have lived so long is surprising, of electrical phenomena. He made since he was greatly handicapped it possible to design any type of by deformity from birth.\ electrical machine without the \rule \I met Steinmetz when I was in of thumb\ procedure practiced be- Lynn, Mass., after finishing college fore his time and to know accur- in Sweden. We both moved with the ately the behavior of any piece of majority of G. E. Engineers to machinery without first building it. Schenectady. He was then almost This was, of course, an enormous thirty and he had already made a step forward. It saved the General reputation on account of his \Law Electric Company millions in ex- of Hysteresis.\ perimental worlc \These first years of his residence \In the popular mind Steinmetz's in Schenectady saw him at his best. name is associated with his work He wrote then numerous important on artificial lightning. In reality papers and books on electrical en- this was of little value; but it was gineering. As I look back upon this more elaborate than anything done time, it seems extraordinary that along that line before. It was spec- so much real work was done; be- tacular and appealed to the popular cause we played so much-played interest and the newspapers.\ in more ways than one-card games every evening, and all kinds of boyish tricks during hours out of the office. While some years older than the group of young stu- dent engineers with whom he as- sociated, he was in reality the most playful of us all, and the chief plot- ter of our numerous activities. \Steinmetz was always interested in education, he continued, and ac- cepted gladly a professorship in electrical engineering at Union Col- lege in 1903.\ In 1913 he transferred that part of his activities to Dr. Berg. During several sul;lsequent years he was President of the Sche- nectady Board of Education. Poli- tics was entirely forgotten during the period of his life when he was active in technical work. Dr. Berg rembered asking him if he was still a Socialist artd he replied with a smile, \How can anyone be a So- cialist when he has more than $3,000> salary?\ \But during and after the world war, he was very much interested Williams Stickmen Open Season With Alumni Here The Mohawk Lacrosse Club, com- posed of Union alumni, will meet the Wiiliams College team here to- morrow at three o'clock on the Li- brary field in its opening game of the season. Several of the alumni players are All-Americans, including Bill Nor- ris, Fred Wyatt, the manager of the team, and \Horse\ Hagar, The Union team will line up as follows: Dill, goalie; Swick, point; Engle, cover point; Hagar, second defense; Murray, first defense; Norris, cen- ter; Wyatt, first attack; Cinella, second attack; Livingstol}, in home; and Doran, out home. Other play- ers who will be used are Aldrich, Dietz, Kreckman, Young, Hesson, and Nitchman. Next Saturday the Mohawk La- crosse Club will meet Colgate Uni- versity in another home game. gjjl U 11111111 II 11111111111111111111 Ill II IIIII llllllllllllllllllll 11111111111 II lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ~ __ Hotel Van Curler == == Recognized for Years as Headquarters = for Union Students, Alumni, = and Their Friends = = ANNOUNCE THEIR NEW · = =· = = = = TAP ROOM Although New ... Already Popular ... Delicious Food and Refreshing . Beverages ... At Moderates Prices := TRULY SCH.ENECTADY'S •BEST = = == == = iilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll IIIII~ ~ew Manager Also Member natlonacl hatred and cooperate in .sprPading peace propaganda. By Of Swimming Team; Will increasing the p.umber of exchange Manage 1934 Cress Counti'y fellowships with foreign institutions, -·.-\-.- by fostering student tvavel, and by John Irving Argersinger, '35, has ~timulating a spirit of internation, b~en elected. rilanager of the var::;ity a·lism in pncsivc resistence to the d~bating team for the 1934-1935 nationalistic tep.dencies of foreign ~e'ason, it was announced this morn· students, the Federation ·hopes to further world peace. ing by the executive committee of · In laying ·out a plan for the fu- the Philomathean Debating Society. ture, the Federation, to which 140 Argersinger succeeds Robert H. American uniyers!tie:;; and colleg·es Smith, '34, manager during the past belong, hopes· to continue The N&o season. 1 tiQnaJ. Stud€1Ilt Mi.ITor maijntained .Argersinger, concluding his first ·to crystallize opinio·n on studil''nt year of activity with the debating ·matters and g·ive it adequate .ex- Ol1ganization, has engaged in no in- pression, the issuing of a weekly tercollegiate competition, confining hewsrelease, an extensive progra,m his work almost entirely to man- of international debating, and the agerial duties. A resident of Waban, ho·Iding of conferences to discus Massachusetts, he is a member of 'student problems. the Delta Upsilon fraternity. He A. sui•vey and Information Bureau has been a member of the varsity resulting fre>m a series ·Of surveys swimtning team for twq years and conducted: on student problems will nex.t year will serve in the capacity be accessible to anyone seeking in• of manager of the cross country formation. Weekly radio broad- team,. In addition he was, in his casts which in the past have feat. freshman year, assistant manager ured eminent :;;peakers in various of the yearling gridders, and has fields will be maintained. been on the Dean's List consistently In addition, the Federation hopes since his fi·rst year. to assist college employment At the present time debate activ- appropriations, and to conduct a ities on the campus a!'e being re- na;tion-wlde survey of college cux- stricted to preparations for theN ew ricula and faculty relations. York State Debaters' Conference on Ptiblio Affairs to be held at Col- gate University, Hamilton, N. Y., on April 27 and 28. Union will be among the many New York State colleges and universities represent- ed at the meeting. The conference is the second of its kind, the first having been held last year with Syracuse University acting as host. At the conference a number of problems of pertinent interest in New York State are discussed by the delegates after a division has been made of the general assembly into individual committees. Thrifty Union Men. Will Appreciate Quality for Less Money Standard Make $} 95 Tennis Rackets • up This year three problems are to be discussed. The most timely, that of state J)'Ublic utilities, is being studied by Milton Schwebel, '34, Seymour Horwitz, '35, and Clark Cummings, '37, who are to repres- ent Union on that question. With Robert Smith, '<!4, acting as chair- man, a committee completed by John Argersinger, '35, and Francis Townley, '37, will discuss state pub- lic relief. Wright-Ditson and Pennsyl- vania Tennis Balls at cut · prices. CALENDAR Tomorrow Tennis Sneakers at ......... . Gym Socks at ......... . Dunlop Golf Balls, Special, each . . . . 95c 29c 44c Daily Assembly-Pan-American Day, Dr, Robert Coggeshall, speaker. New Mesh or Dimpled Golf Lacrosse-Alumni vs. Williams at Schenectady. ~!!~' ............ 19c Baseball-Union vs. Army at West Point. The HUB Monday T.hird Installment of Tuition due, bursar's office. Student Body Meeting, Old Chapel, 10:00 p. m. Sportsmen's Headquarters Tuesday Daily Assembly-Dr. Peter I. 137 State St. Ph. 4-7816 Wold. DOES lArOU R AL HAVE~S'l Loss of weight? Anemia? Inability to last out the week? These are signs of overwork, You can relieve your allowance of one bur- den ... your laundry bill. Send your laundry home-collect, if need be. We'll call for it, take it home, and bring it back again quickly, and, who knows, maybe even prepaid. See how your allowance responds to this tonic. We give a receipt on collection and take another one on delivery. Railway Express is a nation-wide organization that has served your Alma Mater for many years. It provides rapid, dependable service everywhere for laundry, baggage and shipments of all kinds. Telephone the nearest Railway Express agent for service or information. The best there is in transportation SERVING THE NATION FOR 95 YEARS RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY, Inc. NATION- WIDE SERVICE ----------------~----------~----------------- Br A1 Sec: E c CB~ w deni prof ing mot' ilnp: and the by i C.E brat ·~I tive whi< viev gro1 ROll erne was chil by I sen1 seg1 adn mer .. , adn of • cisn Bra Loo the ma1 thel legE the cati the: hav the exp velc \~ J cap fac· dis1 ern tha fail tire anc meJ pia

THE CONCORDfE~SIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1934 T\ entkth .\nniYeJ·sary of Frah.•rnity This We c I\ c• ~ ! 0 'I ,. ,\ ' . ,, ,- t· : .. '\\' :. ; '··\ •. I.~ ! ' . ·I :· :'• . \',, 11 1 ' \\. .I. ! !Lt:, w1:. n··~t._·­ :nn , . I-.·t,:. ttn ... .. [ .lil,d-1 !\j . . t..tj ,. 'I ' I: j ' ' .. ~ t : • II.• 'I • \\\ I • 11, • 11 :·1 r· ,. , 1,, , . , -,. 1 :\~ 17 ',< •• . ..:. .••. ! ! o'! I !·•Ifill! tl.ti)l't' tlJ· 1 -:, 't.t'! 1 ~~ l~t .1 i ,l.t .. ~ • ! fl· .. ' I I t I ' ' fl.t 't· ' I I 0 ' \\ 'I'• 1!.-lt ;t '''.t 111.::.,:. ·: .,. - .. _, ·. l:•.t-l \\\_ ... ftlltldt·d • i \1! I''\ J, t\\' ~~ l ,t II, :. it ,1 I .II• I·'' • t l'tl.t•:t .. dld ! I 1 :• ·:, ')it· ~.t 1 •!• j ll 1; 1 t•; ..._ \\\ !I til\ t•tl I J :',::.II .t_. Tl~·· I·:' ·t !lt t'll.lp- L, · I·· • ll 'H I llJ>Jt d i!H t Receive Graduate School Grants :Argersinger To Be! Cnion pelegati~n Act~ve D b t . . M 1In the Student J1 ederatlon e a Ing · anager · tl'ulltinUL'U frJill l'ag1• I> Sew J-lanager Also 1\tlenlber nat:unal hatred anti •·oopemt~ 111 .~pl<':J<iin;.-; pPace pl<'(n;.,anda. Bv Of Swimming· Team; Will ' tll!'lt'a~in;.: the llUlllOl'l' uf exchange M..tnage 19~l4 Crus:; Country ;l'ltow-illp~ ''ttit t·otl'ign tn~titutton~. -~- __ _ by ~'\''\'in:.: ~tutl•·nt tt:tVE'l, and by Jl~llu l.t \ , 11 ~ .Algt:t!':titlgt:I, '3;j, htt;:, ~ .ntH~ttttn;·. ,t .-Id! it of intt•t nation- l.lt•t·n t•lt'L'lnl lllUllll.ger ot lht• va.IbHY II ali.' 11 • in. (>a .• - •. ·;\· 1<·,-i~.ll'lltt' tu ~he d •b:1ting t.-um fur the HI3.J-1B35 nuttutw.h:<tll' tendenete:o ul foreign ,.tlllt<•nt~. IIJP FedPr:1t ton hore~ to \.•;t~..:.t..il, 1l \\(.1:, <.!·llllUUill't.'Li tlll.} UlUlll- fUl thet- V\'Ot·ld lJP~tl'l', ing by the cxel'ative committee of In laying out a plan for the fu- ilie Philumutlwan Deba.ting Suci<•ty. tUtP, the FPuera.tion, to which HU At gm:<ingt·t ~uece,·d:-; Rob,·t t H. Allll'l ic-un univet ~ities ~nu co.Jlcgt• . .; ,.;mith, '31, managPI timing th<• pa~t belong, !:ope,; to continue The Na- ~l'a:<on. tional ~tudl'nt !Hirrui' maintained Th !-t'lllldt!:- Pt th,- tr~ttt·rrury II \ ltH Ll.l 1'. 1:. I LIT lf I I H.\ i.. I l'l 1.~ H L I' II TIt II' l' HE'\ 10 W. T I L 1.01' II A.t·get singe!. conclutling his fit st to er ystallize opinion on student ycm· of activity wHh the debuting mattet·s and give it adequate ex- organization, fias engaged in no 111- pt·e,;:;ion, the is,;uing of a weekly tl'l'collegiate competition, con lining new::>! E'lease, an extensive program hi:< work almost entirely to man- of international debating, and the agerial duties. A resident of \~,laban, holding of conferences to discus t:• l~·nJt:nlll .\'-'·'\'1. .:\LlllllL't~ Ft It·dttt dl. . .-\.t.r:.,h.tlll U.t.htnt·t. lh n- J-l.t.lll ~}Liftltll, Edw.11d Buxh tlllll. 1 1 ••. 11~ ,;,,,d ~t.:l. J.~( . .}l l~t ..... lilti\·l ll•·n:y (',h•ll. :\1.'~\~\ OJd,tl·m.l :~-~· h, n ~~ 1 .t -l{y and lh·tna.rJ.I \\.' l ~'~. .\.!..1'11.\ :\H. SIG3I.\ D.\.:\{'E .\; i•' .. , h··l·l a ;\lu ~L:lt1:1 f1:1t,·rnitY \\.!l ,.J,,_vd d:tl1('t· tntll.!J/ H•\\ I n:~nt :.r :-:•lii!IWn h:t!l. Tn•· ~·n·•p..r­ \\' ~ \\I l },,. :\11'. :\lilt<>ll :\1 1-:Jlll'l, :\!1. l':.tl.p Sm:til, .:\lr. :md .:\!1,.; ]{II'il:trd Y:u.:u.t.,, ,,f .\lbnny, and!' D1 :1 nd :\lr ~. Lout~ Tt:.:clller, of 1>1::.\Y:-. LIST .\IllHTIO~:-; ·rw,. ( )\\ t•tJ \\'Illtam :\i. .l f~11<-~·. haw l..>t'.an·,; Lt>1 \\ llJ1'h W:t.:-- jJUhli:-<ht•d 1\\'l) :~._,.) tn Tht· (_\,nn•tdit·n~i::;. and l1tJt a ,.:t·t·utHl a.~ wa.~ puhlblJ<•d a!' that t I Illt' ·Steinmetz Great As iTeacherJ Says Berg -----~---- m S<wialhm \111! WI \t t' a '~\uti dt·a! :\la.ssachusett:>, he is a member of student problem::>. \11 th•• -uiJj\..t H,· w··- nt·Vt'l' an the Delta Upsilon ftatetnity. He A survey and Information Bureau 111 tht'd\x !4oc·la.~l~t 1atht'I tht· llHHJ- ita8 been a n1ember of the varsity resulting f1om a series of survey£ 1•1 ::t •• l<ind who \''\' m .\mot ica n swirnming team for two years and conducted on student problems will 1n .!ttk;tl nH~t hod~. hil.!h fmanr<'. and next year wi.JI serve in the ca.paci-ty be access-ible to anyone seeking in- h c' t<l Y mnn:~c_:r'nwn• \n int\t \'tin~ \f manager of the ct·uo~ euuntt·y fornmtion. \\'eekly radio broad- \SteinniPtz gt POitnP~s and hP ''\ 1111 \'' 1 itm with tht• 1 uad tu ::lodal- tL·anl. IH addition he was, in hb casts which in the past have feat- l'-lm IncidPntally I lPal'nNl that in ft\eshman year, assistant manager ured eminent speakers in various · w~\ \ >!I eat man wa~ in hb a.bil- \J''l 'n., ~ffht·ncJ ht' · ., ,.,.·tt•n · n ·tech f th 1· 'dd d h u .. - • ••• ,~ • \ \· '\ \\ • o e year mg- gn ers, an · as fields will be maintained. tty \' a IPHl'llt't. H\ \\w tiling, 111 ntc:tl ·td\·i~<JI to LPnin and that hP been on the Dean's List con~istently In addition, the Federation hopes a l'l<':tlt'l \Vay tlwn anyonP I kt\'t' '''Ll'ivPd fnm.1 hilll \ l<'ttrr· of ~ince his first year. to assist college employment l I ll 1 l th:ml;-. At the present time debate activ- appropriations, and to conduct a lltl'l · ant w \'a' a 1 \ \ <'XP H !11 • \! have often l>Pt·n a,; ked. '\Vha t it.ies on the campus are being re- nation~wide survey of college cur- what :u· lmew to 1 ht· ordinal) <lid Stl'innwtz tl':llly con! rihutl' to stricted to preparations for the New ricula and faculty relations. 'n1tnd,\ S<tiLi Dean Et nst J. Bet g uf · ,·ngin''<'ting and ha:< thet ,. t'\'er York State Deba.ters' Conference on ~cf•t-·th-·,-ta.dy. 1-------------------' 1 tlw EngtnePring Dt\'i,.;iun in. a 1.1- · ~',Pt\n a ~~ Pa((•r m:ilhPma.lleian'.' 1 Public Affairs to be· held at Col- 1~-------------·-----=-~-=~_.,-, __ .,._-~~---..,,.-=....,....,._,....,_=_.,_.,. __ =··~-\\--;'1 '<ho hJo;~dca't Ill honor of l'IL1!'k\ I h·· \''''\lld '1\ 1 '·11«!1 >- 1 '\'11~· :<n- gate University, Hamitton, N. Y., 'I Final Examination Schedule 1933~ 1934 .Unnday. :\lay ~1. !I .\. :H. t::t•!l . '\\ :!1 ('hPrni~ttY 31 F:1.·1n'· ,., in~ Law I'; ,.·,ch 1 { it•Lill,..! \\ 1 ]l,c!\i\' ~3 1'!:\''11·~ 11 I',~ d.I\l\g \' 3 ;-;p;llli,;h 1. Tue:-:day, :\lay ~:!. !l .\. :H. ; :, .. ; .. ,_,~. 1 { ': ,t··ll! ;~t I)' ( '] • · ~ : I~ I l ~· :! 1 fit.-'\\. ,f A1t T_\}'•'- ~~:· Cun-t!ll( t'lttJl Tt. -··, t!••tl~ 'f I •: :\.la\'uJ af'd }q } i •:+· ',\ ;!: J t'Jut:l f!l thP ('ht'lll J - t ' \ I ~t j ! 11. t' I! ( ,, I! 11. Ti ·· tu'1' nt...: J•!••J,:l'lJn:.: h! P ~-'<iH\!llt' \\ill !t•j•l>t t to t!;•· <'ht!JL tro.· J.,,tltJP f~,,nln Tl. -t·td• nt~ t-.h1:1_ Hi. t••tv ••t . \·t \•.'l ft·Ju•!t t., J':dlt~' fi:1!! ;-;!II \\ · edne,.;day. :\lay •)•) -··· !l .\. :\1. Fr f·t,,·h :\\l ··!-t 1·.-hru:~n i (;., .. I:.; '1 -~ • :\rt -l,:JI;tll• ( ~·! t'l'k ~ l i :.-t .,; ~- 3d J.:t11n :?1. :!:! :.1 'lt h·- 0Jl't1Jt' J 'h ~ -\1 . -~ l ) ~; \\ ~· i •. ...; ;) 31 ::--= i I .•. !,,- ~l -, :-'·JI \-,.~·in~: 1 !:r- t.l!.:t.ll J ( ;, , ,:, •, \ • ,t·llinl J-: F: ) I ~t·u._; t•: t •·d Cu:w! t-tt· \T: ,. -• ! l• 11 ... od :'\1 t <\.t.l I • ,Ji ·t '· 1:, .• \ II,::. ;\fin. \\ 'I • ! I' T• • I; o; .. 1 \1: \\'tt !> <1nd ttl tht· ~~ 1.: I iJ \ 1 .:; J I t·j•• If t ;1.: -1::,· r., r·t'lllf\ I:(II.J}l Fl'iday, :\hy ~:i. !l .\. :\1. ,._ .. ·,. :q • 1 I \I' l: J.::r•f'IJ Jt :d i. !-' l i \' \1 ; ll ~ ~ I • 1 t ';, 11 I~ ,·. ·' 11. f;, I·:n~.::tnt ''l1tl::. II • · • •I 1.\ ~~ ! . •· .. ··!.• ·- it I 1• r·.•. ,;,,_ J:· ; '',.I :\ln11 •Ia .\ . :n :a ~ !l \, :\1. I . \ .. ': ,-,. t. 1·>·: . I t•: \' I' I If 1·1 I !'l J:J-: . '.' ... ... 'Jlltd '! I. t ' ' ' :~ 1 ,.;. I •·· TuP,rJay. \I:!~ :2!1, !l .\. 31. I: 'II • {' I \\ 1 \ .:\1 '•.:t,IJ,C 'l ,.;_~,__ ... I Ft. Ill• •Jill,.!. •J:rnt•!J' I 1 _-y('hld( •...:y 21 ·Tht> :--.tTfi••ll~ of Pl'11fP~~or Htonw n•·1 a.n 1 l 1 Ioft·~ ..... ol .:\lo~l£•\ '.:-. ~t-c t:oll 1; \\Ill IPp~trt\ tn Haill:Y Hall. :)till, · TL•· - .-~ tiCJn:-: of PI ()fP:-:-:;oJ :\htt·'' ,.f !',.;y<'holugy 1 will 1 e- Jt\tl •., 1:·1il1·y Hall. 31111. Thursday, :\1ay :n. ~ :\. M. '['J., l~u::.:tn_ (•\n..:tttli\Lun c·h,·n,L--tt ~- :.!:.2 I :l (I (l I III tll' ;..; }It J.:I.·d•:•·:tl 1-:nginPPting LalJtJ!H· tl!f\\ ~~enior EEl En:.:l;-h 1 1 I!Jld-' '\1.1 t'la-<' > En..:lt,.h :.!ll Fn·n('h 3 Ft ~·rwh 1:~ Fr .. n•·h :!J Ft l·neh 31 1 ir f't>k !!1 IIL,ltll \\ :!tj L.1 ~;n \11 ~]tT ha nH· ... l'hy,tc·- 1 t, ... (l}Jhtl[lltll p) l'ti!J:w:tl ~dence 1:! Friday, .June 1. ~ A. M. J·:n...:II-il I\ {;-·tlll,tll 1 qllHi·).t•:tl cl.t:>:-.1 li• !Bl.lll:.! •rnid·yt·:JI ~lath~·rn:rtu·...: :! ~.1:~t·h,·rnatir ... ~1 l'hilo~uphy II H.allr oad Ctu-vt•:-. :<t 1 urt !II f'' ·Tho· :·•·dion- of I 'I oft•,..\ot Bur~ 1<•·<1 ittHI :\lt. t•lridl will ll•(tort· 1« H:lll<·y Hall. 31111. ~a.turday . .June:!.~~ .\, M. El·,,nntHw..-. :!1 I·:~•t't!lt,:al Engult·t>I!ll~ Theuzy ,:-;, Plftl E.E~ Elt·n1f'nt.s of Eh·ct t li'Jty 'Sopho- II.• l: t' I 1-:n~JI-h :!:.! ,;,.~!11.1n ~I. a1 llJ-\I)J ~ 1 I 1111d yf':l: J!l.,l otl y !IJ lli~1o~ry II Pnlit~t· d ~('lf•J1Cf• ]II ]',yehology 2 r·-~ •·holo~y II .~.,r1:l'tl\. J-:n~.tlf'f·tJII.~ I :\Ionday, .June .t, 9 A. M. ' I~Pdft~\' 3:.! J·::.-, tr tt·Jty l :n c ·; h ~I !.1, ~ '·It ~I ( ; 1- ' I, J :~ l!l.-!1<1)' :.!1 ,\1 . ' j I' :II d ~ 1l ~1 ,· !H lll.t.f.l 1'-. :.:' J J '!i\ ~~- ... :H pll:l·t· d ~('}f )lC'f' }t; I'.·. h• .:~·. \' ~:? Tl~· r lll•'d~ n.lflllt' .... glt,;.,~y :! !~·~~~~~~~ II ('ht!l i.! I y 11 I ('hotlll Tl~ :_!) ·J;_,; Ill ('ht'llll :1 ~' J-:,·,•rlidJIII ... :_!1) l:n\il-h :)11 c;j', !ll.t n :~ I. I t I : \ '~ I '!Jilt, I •ldl\\ l'olitH·.,] O')cJ,·tl•'f' L~ .~p:tl1l·ll :?1 ;\] \hdn{'~day • .J un<' 6, 9 ..\, :\1. '. !.1• IJ'' ! I~- I:? )'/f !lt h 1.1 • ~·· 111, ., n 11 • ;, :1111 n 1:.!. 13 f; I t I ·1< 1:! l'hllo-ophy 2 ,,_\'f.hlllOh')' 12 Sp.t!ll·h 11 ·Thursday, .June 7. 9 A. M. lf>lllt<·lb StPinnwtz Satmday nigh!. >Wr!Pt!. !'Ht·innH·t;;: him . .;rJf would ion April 27 and 28. L'nion will be Thi:; btoatlcJ~L wa:-< a pa1t uf th1• n<'\'<'1 <'!aim to bt·\ >.:tt·at mathPma-, among the many New York State <'X\'I'CI~e,; held this weL•k 111 h<Jnut lH'tan, tll1!<'h l•·~,; the g-teatL·~t. l-IP! colleges and universities t·epresent- of thP ,,J·cat ~eienti:;t, ont• 11111<' ]'llr, k11t·w a ~~~·.•t dt•al of matht·rnatic,;, ed at the nweting. The cunfetencl'. fp•,.;nr of PlPPtriPal cngin1•(•ring ;,t l;~n!l what iw lml'W he eould U:;P. 1 is the second of its l<ind, the fir:<tl t·nion. I He> wa,.; quite as much a physich;t, having been held la~t year with: Thrifty Union Men Will Appreciate Quality for Less Money ExhiiJib ha \\ Ill' en placed 111 :a clH'mbt and _a lmqlll~t as he was Syracuse Univrrsity acting as host. I ; ,;tures un State ,;trt·et, anu at thl': a nwthrmattctan. Ht,; Important At the conference a number of Grnetal Electric Company. In the worli wa,.; in Plectrical eng-in£>ering, pwblems of pe!linent interest in ptogram with DPa.n Berg's ~pt·l'ch.: thou~h tt <·annot be ~aid that he I New York Sta.te are discussed by t·an a n·eottl made of Stt·tnml'lz'~ op<·ned up any new fteltl or made. the delegate;; after a division has \·uiet· mote than ten y<'at·,; ago. :fundamental diH·overies ot inven-1 been made of the general a:-;sembly Standard Make $1 95 Tennis Rackets • up ''Ht· wa,; alway:-; a.nxiutb ant! abl1• ll·•n..; , ir.to individual cornmittees. · ,to hl' helpful. Hi:; hea1t wa:-; full of I \Yet hP, moll• than anynn<• el:.:e. i This year three prnblPm:; a11· to :love for mankind and tu !mow him I was n•,;pon:<tblE' for the truly nuruc-l be discussed. The most timely, that: Wright-Ditson and Pennsyl- vama Tennis Balls at cut prices. I . w,,,., to love him and his memoty,\: ulou~ advunc\ m P]c>C'ti ieal cngi~ J of state public utilitic>s, is being: Dr. Berg ,;aid in >!Jeakmg of Sit· Ill-' ner-nng durmg th<• first quatter of 1 !-'tudied by Milton ::'\C'hweb£>1. '34.: nletz',; life and achievement:;, , this eentury. \Seymour Horwitz, '35, and Cla1 k 1 i \Kat! Augu~t !{Udolf ::lt<>mml'tz, \:'ltr-inmetz app1 t·etatt·u the im- Cummings, '37, who are to repn•s-~ !.was butn in Br<'~lau. Gt•llua.ny, 1 pnttunc<• ~>f matht>mrt.tteal \tmplifi- ent Union on that question. \Vith i Aptil 11, Ustif>, and du•u a~ Chat le, ,ration <t>l phyeH'.;Ll lt1W\' ant! dt•·, i{ubert Smith, '34, aPting as Phair- l't<>tc>us ::ltL·innwtz in W23. A ~pan - 1 vutPd tiw lw~t p .. r t uf hb life to I man, a committee- cumpletet! by i of ftfty-t•Jg!H yt·;u, uf lifP 1' nut ex- populanz,ng th:-< :tll't!Jou. He WtOIL' Jt>hn Argersinp;er, '35, and Ftancis 1 ePptiunal with nJt·n uf strong phy 1 paper· aftPt ptqwr, book altPI' boo!< I To-..vnlt•y, '37, will db<'U:<s state pub- I ,.;iqUL'. hut that ::'lt<·mm•·tz ~hould i applying. this mPthu~u to a.ll. kind~ lie relief. I havP livc·d \' long 1~ sUI pt i>·mg, i of el<'el ne.ll phenonwna. liP mad<',~;;;;;;=:;;~;;:;;;:;;;;;:;;;~;;;::~ :-<inee he wa,., greatly handH'appt·d 1 it po\;ihlP to !P,.;h:n any typP <>I jli by <!t•fonnity from bit·th.\ '•·!Pd <i••al madtmt· wtthout the \tul<- CALE:\t~D.\R \I met ::ltt•mml'lz wh<·n I wa> Ill, ,,f thumh\ pto('PdutP pt·acticed bt-- i Tumot•rmv 1 Tennis Sneakers at ...... . Gym Socks at ...... . Dunlop Golf Balls, Spedal, each 1934 Tennis Balls each ......... . 95c 29c 44c 27c Lynn, .:\1a,,.,,. aft•·r fmishllt\ I'Uill'f.:L' fotP hi' lllllL' and tu !<now :t<'<'lll-. Datly A:-<sernbly l';m~Anu•rtcan :in SwPt!t•n. \\\!'both muw·d wlth tltP <ctely th•· hl'lmvwr· of any p!<·ce of' Day, Dr. Robeit f'ugge,.,hall, : nwjo1 ity ,f G. E. EnginP<'I ~ to marhin<'IY without fit >t huilding it. 1 :-'peakt•r. New Mesh Balls, or Dimpled Golf , ~·khl'nP<'ladv. HP wa~ tllPil almo_;t Thb wa~. of ('<J!Ir~L·. an enmmou\ 1 I ,a<'! osse Alumni V>. \\.illiam>< thitty and '1w had :llJ<•ttt.ly lltadt• a I oil']> forw:ud. It ~aved thP G<>n<•tal: at Sd.I<·nP('tadv . 1 PJIUiatwn on :wc·\unt uf 111,., \!.\\\ 81Pf'!IJC' Cump:tny lnillwns tn t'X· Ba\Pball l'nion· vs. ,\rmy at .,f lh·sti•Jt•,..q,:· I ]>P!Inl••n:·!l W<>Il<. I \\·r·st Point. .. Tht•st' fll ,; v••a 1,.. 11f !Ji,.. 1 ,. ,td•·nt·t· ' \In tilt' popular· mimi St <·Inlllt-11.'- I ;\londu-~· Ill ::khl'll•·ct:Jtl): \\w hun at hi.' bL•,t. i nanw i_\. :L<>'<wi_:ttl'd _with h;~ wurk i TL11 t! ln!'tallnwnt of Tuition: 1 H<• wtott• thrn lllllll<•!uU~ illl(H>rtant 1 on. arttftcwl. l!~htmn;~. In I<'altt~ du!', bursal-'s offiee. il>'<l\'l.' a.nd bouk,; un <:!Pdlir\<l ••n-1 lht< w:\ of ltttlP valtu·: but It wa-' f\tu<il·nt Body .M<'t•tin).!'. Oltl each . 19c The H gill<'<'! Ill~ ,\~I lo<Jii hal'l< !ljJiil> :1 11 , I nlot.- t·lahot.<lt· th<Jn .1n~thmg don<' <.h:iJ>Pl. 10 nn Jl m. tlln\. 11 '''<'lrl- PXII wtdtn.tl v tlt. 1 l I alon>.: that ltn(· lwforP It w •- 'I\''' Tm•o.;da~ Sportsmen's Headquarters ~o ll!Ul'h 1 ~·;II W<ll k wa' dun\; bt- t.u·ul '' and \Jll\'aJt.d to tht• populat Daily A~•:-'Pmbly Dr. l'l'tt'!' L <\au~\ WP pla:-,Pd •o muc·h played !1111'1 •·-t .ttl<! th<' n<'W'P\l•Pr-\ \\.old. 137 State St. Ph. 4-7816 /1n nHJil' \'\oay~ tlwn tJli.P caul o 1 !.!;;================!! :~amp,; .''\'••t·y .''\'t'llltlg._ and all kmt!~ \\'illiams Stick men Open II of bnvt~h trw!<,- <ltumg hout:-o out •\r th· .. ,,rr.,· ... Whi], .. -umt· ~ ~·;,r.- ScaHon \Yith Alumni Here 1 :nldt·l than lh<' ).!'tuup ul :-,·oung >tu- ____ ' dent <'nginect~ with whom he u~- 'ociated, lw was in n•ality the n 1 o,t 'Th<' ;.\inhawk Lacto\''' Club. com- i plrtyful <>f us all. and thP ('hid p!ot- po,,.d nf l'ninn alumni. will meet! 1<·1 of out lllllllt'IUU,.; actl\:itit·~. 1 1ht· \\'illiazw· Ccdlt•c·1• !<•am h<·t<' to- \~t .. tz wa:-< .tlw,y.' int.-rP~t.-<.1 j mot row. at threP o'<'loC'l< on tht• L1- 'j 1n Pducatwn. hf' enntinuPd, and ar- lJI ~uy f1dd 111 It ... opl'nln~ ~anH· of t·eptl'd gladly a ptofp,;,oor><htp 111 . the sea:;on. eleC'tt\it·ai en~int·t·t·int!\ at L'•niun Col· ~~ \PLtl uf tht• :dun1ni playt·::--~ ate It>~<· ll1 l~l03.\ In 1.\113 h•• ttansf<•Jto!d .\11-Aawtican>. tii<'illt!Jn:.: Hill ,'-:IJI· thttt part <•f his activi1IL'S t<> D1.: :1:-<, Fted \\'yatt, tlw m:llltlct·t \' tilt· !~PI~. llUIII11! .--.f'\'Pinl ... nb~t'l{llPll! t·t·:tnl. and \Hoi :-:t>·· li :~.,,.u·. Tht' ye;u.-; h•· \\·\ l'r~·-Id<'nt of llw ~dw~ l·nwn t<·am Will li!lt' ll(' \' J,']ow.' n<'ctat!y HIJat d of Education. Pnli· Dill. ~oalie: Swtl'l<, ]H•int: En>!lP. tic, wa,; 1 nlt!<'ly fotgotten during •OWl pottlt; Ha..:ar·. o'ecund <(.,f,.n,·t•; ! ht· pPritH! of hi.' lift· wh<'n h•· \\T:J• ~Imr ay. fit :-'t dt·t'<·n\'·: ;\;otri~. ('l'n- aC'tivP in ('.-chni<· tl wotl<. IlL J; 1 ·r~ t<·•. \\·>·•tt. fll~t alt.tck: Cin<'l;a, tt'lllhPtPd a,-lung h1m 1f h<· wa~ ~till .. -Pcond a.tt.1rk: Living-tun. in lwm<': <l :S·n~·tn.li-t aiid ho· t•·pltt·d wi:h a :md llOL1ll, <•llt hrorrl!'. Oth<'r fJlay- [ :Hlllll', ··flow <'<t.n .1!1\'0n<· \'' a :So- ,.,,..WI!« Will iH' u~l'd :tiP Ald!ll'h .. f'i:lli.-.:t \Vhf\n h1· h;; ... Jllotl' th:tn, l>it·~·/. l'tt·;·!:rn:tn. Yottn<.!\. f£,·:.::--:on. $3.1111!1 ,aJarv·:·· <t!Itl ;:-.;ttl'illl!.ln. ''But tlu1inc- .1nd aftt r th1· \Vtllld 1\'Pxt ~atttrd:t~· tht· :\loll·:\\ I\ L<t- \V:tr hl' \\:t.. ... \t'l ~ tlltl('h lilt• ·, -.tf·d t 1 <•~--.~· C!uh Will IJJt·• • Cu!J.!:Ilt• (Ill \'t·l~tty Ill anotht·t hull11' j.;,,llllt'. ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll[' 1 ~ 1 _ HoR teldVf yanCH ud rler ~- ecogniZG or ears as ea quarters for Union Stuaents, Alumni. and Their Friends -- i ANNOUNCE THEIR NEW . ::::::: == t I • TAP ROOM ~ Although New ... Already PopuiCJr . =I 1 == ... Delicious Food and Refreshing := 1 , == Beverages ... At Moderates Prices I ··-- ..... Loss of weight? Anemia? Inability to last out thl' we0k? These are signs of overwork. You can relieve your allowance of one bur- den ... your laundry bill. Send your laundry home- collect, if need be. We'll call for it, take it home, and bring it back again quickly, and, who knows, maybe even prepaid. See huw your allowance responds to this tonic. We give a receipt on collection and take another one on delivery. Railway Express is a nation-wide organization that bas served your Alma Mater for many years. It provides rapid, dependable service everywhere for laundry, baggage and shipments of all kinds. Telephone the nearest Railway Express agent for service or information. The best there is in transportation SERVING THE NATION FOR 95 YEARS ACiENCY, Inc. ::: ~· ,; ;: Hem\'\ ' , TRULY SCHENECTADY'S BEST I ·,;,;,.,;_\ ._., . ! ___ .•. !......;••.: \---· ~.....;;.~---~ -;;;;..,;~ -=-~=-~-= 1 ·=~i t=ic,=tl S=cit·=ncP===!! I mllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllii¥. I NATION- WIDE SERVICE B: A (I '\i der pre ing mo imJ ant thE by c. br~ tiv wh vie gr< Ro em wa chi by sez se1 ad m( ad of cis Br La thl IDI thl le! th· ca th ha th ex ve ca fa di: er th fa til a:r m pi

tive in By by the reign to fu- 140 .ex- eakly gra-m the us in• road- feat- us a cu:r- cut · I' ! i l 'THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1934 Seven Brain Trust Charg.e Brick ~all Showed Way Natio~a:l Flower and Gru.~den Simon, '34, ~ins From All ~~~r~n~:cf~ t~:.ls~Kt ~~ede~~;_t;~ Att .k d. b R . Home m Good Old Days .Show miRochester Next Week Opponents m Chess Play by Mr. A. Schmidt. ac e Y Oper · 'i.'he college radio station, W2GSB, . ' . ' --- · . was again engaged in a radio_ chess five hours. Additional chess matches are planned with more d.i.stant points, including New York, the Harvard Chess Club, and the chess club at Oberlin College, Ohio. Back in the good old pre-prohibi- Special to The Concordiensis Sam Simon, '34, defeated all com- match last Saturday afternoon, .Secretary of CommeFce Holds tion days (\good\ in the sense that Th 15 th N ti 1 Fl d ers in an exhibition of simultaneous when the Schenectady Chess Club RADIO CLUB NOTICE . . . . · e a ona ower an chess play recently at the Kappa played a two-game match against Brain Trust Practical and wltat has bOOn ~s always to be pre- Garden Show will take place at Nu House. First he ea.oily def<Jated the Oneonta Chess Club. The oper- The radio club has announced OfGreatUseto Government ferred to wha.t lS) a couple of gen- Rochester, N.Y., April 14 to 22. Charles Hinckley, '36; both men .ators at W2GSB were George· that It will be .glad to assist any erations after the Civil War and at :This ·beautiful exhibition will be an pla?'ing _blindfold, that is, without Tracy, Jr., '34, W2EFU, and George students desirous of lea-rning Morse th t' h c · N tl · . ·seemg either men or board. Then Hobbs, '37, W2FLY. The Oneonta ,code or of practicing to improve (By Associated Collegiate Press) .. e h 1 ~e :' enh . arl'l_e ~ on was ·event of immense proportions. Hun- he played simultaneously; a hlind- players used W8IDJ, owned and their present code speed. Anyone WINTER PARK, Fla.-A firm m e1 pnme, ard hqu01 was the dreds· ·of thousands of flowers and fold game against Owen Early and operated by Mr. C. B. Moore. Sche- lr.tcrested Is asked to see Bradley denial that the Brain Trusters and· favorite drink at Union amongst', plants will ·be ::!hipped to Rochester -Charles Hinckley, con.sult!ng over nectudy won both games. The Plummer, '36, Room 2 N. S. N. C., professors who are actively advis- t d t d f It l'k Itt k a board· a board g-ame against match lasted from 1:30 to 6:SQ- or any other member of the club. ing President Roosevelt in the pro~ s u en s an acu Y a 1 e. · 00 ,'by the leading growers th.r:oughout · . • · , . . . uc- motlon of his recovery program ar~ barely more than the proverbial the country for this occas1on. The Mil top. Sbchwdebel, 34 • an~ twt 0 R~ h cess1ve oar games aga1ns 1c - impractical and theoretical men smell of the cork ~o mll;ke the COJ?--', total value of the flowers, plants ard Kelsey, '37. , and \we1·e dictating the policies of' sumer somewhat mebnated. Th1s 'and. .gardens on display will approx- Simon is one of the ranking play- . the adlninistration,\ was made here· h d by Secretary of Commerce Daniel, was the day ·before autos and mov- :imate one million dollars. ers of the city, and has reac e : c. Roper at the Founders Day cele- ies, and,'even as now, drinking was: It . t d thet the show will. the finals in a local elimination .bration at Rollins College. considered one of the few ways to: lS expec e a . . :tournament. The result of this \I can think of no single legisla-·: spend the time enjoyably. : be seen by 200,000 people dunng 1ts tournament will determine the SCHENECTADY ENGRAVIN·G COMPANY~ INC. 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY I NEW YORK tive enactment up to this time There is a story current among.- nine-day run. Of this number 50,- . three best che.ss playesr in the city, which has been dominated by the soine of the older faculty members·.ooo wHl come from out of town. Of who are to compete with the three views of any single professor or· about Professor Wm. H. Gillespie,': the 200-odd classes which will be best players of Al·bany, similarly group of professors,\ Secretary who more than any of the. other 'exhibited, 14 will constitute the Col- chosen, in a- round-robin tourna- Roper emphatically asserted. \One faculty m~mbers loved his hard li- :lege Section. In this section will ment to determine the champion of emergency act, for example, which ;quor -in the evening. It is said that be demonstrated the interesting Albany and Schenectady Counties. : was widely heralded as the brain': as a result of this weakness, he al- 'work which is being carried on in In the first round of this. city child of_ one professor, was evolved ways had difficulty staying on the various colleges throughout the tournament, Simon defeated Rich- · by 11: group of a!Jout 15 .me~ rt;pre• road to his horne after the custom- country in connection with floricul- ard Kelsey, thereby giving the 'lat- senting edu~atlonal mstltutions, ary debauch. In order to be cer~ tural and horticultural research. •. ter a chance to compete in a sec-· -~~of~~~~~~~~~~~~hl~~ Th~~~~~~~~~ornn~d~a~r~y~e~U~m~i~n~a~ti~o~n~~~u~r~n~a~m~u:t~f~o~r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ admm1stiat~rs w;!th broad govern- lived in what is now South College) world of greater cultural or educa- - ment. experience, he added. he had· a high brick wall construe- t' al value than the National \W1th the advent of the present . . Jon . . administration, there came a flood' ted and he had on!y to touch th1s, Flower a~d Garden Sh,ow. I~ co.mes of comment and discussion, criti-. as he stumbled blmdly along,. to to a locality but. once m. a lifetime. clsm anu praise concerning the know that he was on the r1ght _ For f~rther u;formatlon, p~ease :Brain Trust and the professors;· ~rack. When he. came to th~ turn-: cornmumcate 'With the NatiOnal Looking back over the first year of . n:;g, he. w~ obliged to go m the Flower and Garden Show Head- the new administration I ftnd nght -d1rectlon as the wall would quarters, Seneca Ar<Jade, Rochester, many who have been confused in:.a.now him to go In no other. N. Y. their appraisal of the role of col- ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;r 1 lege and university profes13ors in li the recovery d,rama, Even the edu-, cational institutions from which . these professors have been drawn • have not, in many- cases, g1ven to the public a .forceful and clean-cut explanation of this significant de- velopment in government affairs. \If our educational system is not capable of producing from its faculties men equipped to render distinguished service to our gov- ernment, we would have to admit that such an educational system, failing in this requirement,. is en- tirely inadequate for our country and its democratic form .of govern- ment and that we should at once plan another,\ he concluded. ONLY THE BEST IS GOODENOUGH BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner 11 Union Street and Gillespie Reg. Phar. Reg. Phar. Edward H. Brandhorst, Leland E. Brandhorst, what tT ~neans A Better Position You Can get it Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dol- lars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure better pos- ition and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. (Teachers address Dept. T. All others address Dept. S.) Continental Teachers Agency. Inc. 1812 Downing St. Denver, Colo. Covers the ENTIRE United States School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at c.ur ex!>~nse, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail mthin 36 hours. to store 10 million dollars worth of tobacco - 4% miles o/ warehouses Everything that Science knows about is used in making Chesterfields. One thing we do is to buy mild, ripe tobaccos and then lock up these to- baccos in modern storage warehouses to age and mellow like rare wines. It takes about 3 years to age the tobaccos fo.r your Chesterfield, for Time does something to tobacco that neither man nor machine can do. It means something to keep 70 million dollars worth of tobacco in storage. It means just this: We do everything possible to make Chesterfield the cigarette that's milder, the cigarette that tastes better. the cigarette thaes MILDER the cigarette that TASTES BETTER ® 1934, LtGGBTT & MvnRs ToBAcco Co.

lH. By hange tlun~, nd by cdion- u th\ to fu- HU _udent ex- the discus will in- broad- feat- hopes uct a cur- ey cut THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 193\1 Seven Brain Trust Charge Attacked by Roper B r!\c·k Wal·l .Sh U) d w . i National :Flower and Garden i I.:'\ 'i' '34 ur]·.n. s Fl·o· m Al'l; thll tl plat·e. Kel~ey came out to I five hours. Additamal chc-ss m~tches 0 e ay 1 ' , >\Jlffi0a•a ' 1'1' the tina!<> m th1s, but v;us tldeatetll :ue ,p!annetl Wllh llloJe di.:;tant Home in Good Old Days1Show in[t.oche::-~ter :NextWeek,Opponents in Chess PlavJby .:.1r. A. Schmidt. points, ineludin~ !';ew York, the ___ . . 1 The college radtu statiun, vV2GSB, Harvartl Che,;s Club, anu the chess ~-- wa...., agutn engaged in a rudio che~~ clu·b ut Obetlin College, OhicJ. ~ecretary of Commerce Holds Brain Trust Practical and Of Great Use to Government Back in the g0od old pre-ptuhibi- SJlt>dal to 'fhe Concordiensis Sam Simon, '34, defeated all com- mateh last Saturday afternoon, I ---o--- t10n days (\good\ in the :;ense that Tt 15 h N· t\ 1 Fl , . u ets in an exhibition of :<imultancous: .-·hen the Schenectady Chess Club RADIO CLUB !'I'OTICE what has been i~ alway~ to bP le t • a wna owu an I chP~S play recently at the Kappa 1 played a two-game match against I ---··- ,,,. . , . . prc-~L:;u den ::lhuw \'til take place at 1 !';u Huu;:;e,. Fit;ot ~~~ ~<L.~ily defeated 1 Lhe Un<\ull ta Ch~~;; Club. The uper- 1 The. r·adio club ha,; annnl!n<\t·d felled to what IS) a couple of gen- Roehe.;;ter, N. Y., Apnl 14 t 0 22. Charles Hmckley, 3U; both men I atuls at W2GSB were George, that l'l will be glad to as~ist any eration::> after the Civil Wm· and at Thi:o; beautiful exhibition will be an playing blintlfuld, that i<\' without Tun:y, J1., '31, W2EFL', and George: student~ dP<'inHl\ of IParning :\1or:<P the time when Cat rie Nation was _ . . ,;eeing either men or board. Then\ Hobb<-i, '37, W2I<'LY _ The Oneonta 'I code or of practicing to improve (By Associated Collegiate l'ress) event of Immense proportwn,; Hun- he played \tmultaneuu:;ly; u blind- 11 ,], 1 ,.·e 1 s u;;ed \\'~l])J, uwned anti. ttwir pt<·--ent cuclc· >]Jeed. Anyone WINTER PARK Fla A finn in her plime, hard liquor· was llll' J .I f 1 J f tl d f E 1 .1 J . , .- reuo u t tuU>l<Hl :; u uwetb an u!J game agamst Owt•n ·at y an\ 1 uJ•~tateJ b~ .\l1. C. !.,;. ;}lou! C. Schc il~tl'IP:<lt-d i\ a.-Iu·d to Sl'e lltatlll'Y denial that the Brain Trusters and fuvol'ite dlink at L'nion umungot plants will be :;hippeJ tu Hucht•otel CLarle:; Hinckley. eon-•ulting ovPI' tH·ctady wun ·buth game,; Tlw' Plummer, \36. Hoom 2 !\:. !'. !\:. C', professors who are actively ad vis- students and faculty uhke. It tool' b'' the leadi\ng gtowet·\.· thi'<tlJ\hout \a ·b,oarti.: a. b. oard. .g<.lme a.gains.t 1 nt.•tch lasted flom 1:30 to 6:30· ·or any other nu•rnb<·t of the club. ing President Roosevelt in the pro- \' \ \' M 1 · h b 1 34 l motion of hi,; !'ecovery program are barely more than tlw proverbial tho· c•Juntr'\ for tid<-' of'<'rt,;ion. The 1 1 ton~: we e' · an< 1 \'u 1 ,~ulc-' ---~.-- 1 J 1 cetiSlVe uuaiLi gante.s a;..:aln~t de!- impractical and theoretical men smell of the cork ~o make the con- , total value of the fiowers, plants ar u Kelsey, '37. · and \were dictating the policies of sumet· somewhat mebriated. This iand gatdens on ubJJla'· will approx- Simun is one of the ranking pla,·- the administration,\ was made here , J J by Secretary of Commerce Daniel was the day before autos and muv-ltmatt· une million dollats. ers of thP city, and ha\ reached SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY, IN·C. C Roper at the Founders Day cele ies, and, even as now, dlinking was . • h 1 . 11 the finals in a local elimination · ' - considered one of the few ways to It 18 expected that t e s 10 .w w,t tournament The t·esult of thi,; bration at Rollins Col,lege_ \I can think of no single legisla- spend the time enjoyably_ be ti£'1.'11 by 200,000 people duung tts I tomnament will determine thl:' tive enactment up to this time There is a story cunent among nine-day run. Of thi:; number 50,- 1 thtee ,best dlP~s play~s.r in the city, i. which has been dominated by the some of the older faculty members OIJO wi 11 ceme from out of town. Of who are to compete with the three' views of any single professor or about Professor Wm. H_ Gillespie, the 200-odd classes which will be best players of Albany, similarly, group of professors,\ Secretary. who more than any of the other exhibited, 14 will constitute the Col-I ehosen, in a round-rnbin to urn a- Roper emphatically asset·ted. \One faculty members loved his hard li- lege Section. In this section will ment to determine the champion of\ emergency act, for example, which quor in the evening. It i:; said that be demonstrated the intetesting- Albany and Schenectady Counties. was widely heralded as the brain as a 1esult of this weakneo:;, he a!- wur k which is being canied on in In the fir·,;t round of this city' child of one professor, was evolved ways had difficulty staying on the variou..' colleges throughout the tournament, Simon def~ated Rich- J by a group of about 15 men repre- road to his home after the custom- _, 0 untry in connection with ftoricul- at d Kelsey. thereby giving thE> lat-1 senting educational institutions, ary de<ba uch. In order to be cer- t ural and horticultural research. ter a chance to compete in a ~er- · 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY. NEW YORK segmen~ of ~dudr~ and capahle t~n of taking the right turn (he There~ perhapH no show in the 1 <<>>n~.~da~t)~·~e~l~im~ln~a~t~l:o:n~t:ou~tn~l~lm~r~n~t~fo~t~•~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ administrators with broad govern- lived in what i,; now South College) world of greater cultural or educa- - men.t experience,\ he added. h h d h\ h b · k · 1 \With the advent of the present e a a 1g nc wall con:;truc- tiona! value than the Natwna administration, there came a flood ted and he had only to touch this, Flower and Garden Show. It comes of comment and discu,;,;ion, criti- as he stumbled blindly along, to to a locality but once in a lifetime. cism ana praise concerning the know that he wa:; on the right Fot· fmther information, please Brain Trust and the professors_ tracl{, When he came to the tum-~ communicate with the National Looking back over the first year of ing, he was obliged to go in the Flower and Garden Show Head- the new administration I find right direction as the wall would quarters, Seneca Ar·cade, Rochester·, many who have been confused in allow him to go in no othet·. N. Y. their appraisal of the role of col- lege and university professors in the recovery drama. Even the edu- cational institutions from which these professors have been drawn have not, in many cases, giVen to the public a forceful and clean-cut explanation of this significant de- velopment in government affairs . \If our educational system is not capable of producing from its faculties men equipped to render distinguished service to our gov- ernment, we would have to admit that such an educational system, failing in this requirement, is en- tirely inadequate for our country and its democratic form of govern- ment and that we should at once plan another,\ he concluded. ONLY THE BEST IS GOOD ENOUGH BRAN DH ORS T PHARMACY \On the Corneru Union Street and Gillespie Reg. Phar. Reg. Phar. Edward H. Brandhorst. Leland E. Brandhorst 1 ~hat tl: nzeans the cigarette that's A Better Position You Can get it Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dol- lars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure better pos- ition and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. (Teachers address Dept. T. All others address Dept_ S.) Continental Teachers Agency, Inc. 1812 Downing St. Denver, Colo. Covers the ENTIRE United States School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at c.ur exp~nse, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 3 6 hours. to store 10 million dollars worth of tobacco - -IS mt!es o/ warelwuses E verythi12g that Science knows about is used in making Chesterfields. One thiug we do is to buy mild, ripe tobaccos and then lock up these to- baccos in modern storage warehouses to age and mellow like rare wines. It takes about 3 years to age the tobaccos for your Chesterfield, for Time does something to tobacco that neither man nor machine can do. It means something to keep 70 million dollars worth of tobacco m storage. It means just this: We do everything possible to make Chesterfield the dgarette that's milder, the cigarette that tastes better. the cigarette that TASTES BETTER @ 1934, ltGGETI & Mvrn< Ton\Crll ro.

Eight THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1934 Hathaway Elected Editor .. Iu- Chief Anderson, Gilbert, Stevenson, North and Trumbull At·e Chosen Associate Edito1·s Dr. H. Ol'ton to Speak On upon him the honorary deg1•ee of doctor of divinity in 1931. · T . opic \G1\ve Me a Man\ Followi-ng his ordination as a Congregational Minister in 1915 he Dr. Douglas Horton, minister of assumed his first pulpit as assistant minister of the First Church of the United Church of Hyde Park Christ, Middletown, Conn., becom- in Chicago, Illinois, since 1931, will ing minister in charge the follow- speak on \Give Me a Man\ at the ing year and holding the post until chapel services on Sunday. 1925, when he accepted a call to Dr. Horton received his bachelor the Leyden Con·gregational Church of arts degree from Princeton in of Brookline, Mass. He served (Continued from Page 1) 1912 . He also studied at New Cbl- the1•e as minister until the call for excellence in English composi- lege in Edinburgh, Scotland, Mans- came from Chicago for him to as- tian. He has been a member of the tleld College, Oxford UniverRity, sume charge of the newly united' and the University of Tuebingen, Con~regational and Presbyterian Philomathean society for the past Germany. He received the bachelor Churches of Hyde Park. three years and has been a mem- of divinity deg-ree in 1915 from the Dr. Horton's activities have ber of the Classical Club for a simi- Hartford Theological Seminary. been confined exclusively to Jar period; at present he is secre- Laurence College and the Chicag·o I work of his parish. During Theological Seminary conferred War he served as Chaplain ,in tary and treasurer of the former or- ganiza-tion and vice-president of the latter. Woolman is an associate ed- itor of the 1935 Garnet and assist- ant business· manager of the Moun- tebanks. Woolman originated the attack on functionless class officers in his editorials and continued the drive until the offices were abolished. He also wrote editorials about the ac- tivities of the college 'Y\. Berger, a member of the Mounte- banks and the German Club, is serving his second year on the edi- torial staff of The Concordiensis. His home is in Poughkeepsie and he is a member of the Kap.pa Nu Fraternity. Berget has cone en tt a ted hi,, wot k 01. the ,;pot t:; page, dur·ing the past year and has already v.TiHPn ~<'V· eta! spurts columns. WhiPl>le in GlE'P Club Whipple, a member uf the Chi Psi fraternity, mal1es hi,; home in Binghamton. He j,; al,;o managing editor of the 1935 Garnet and a member of the Glee Club for the third year, in addition to being a member of the culieg~ 4uat let and operator of the college cal'illon. During his freshman year Whipple played with the college band. The chief duties of the members of the Junior Hoard are thosE' of an issue editut· including giving out assignments. reading proof and taking charge of eompu~itiun on dayB of publication. John Anderson, a member of tht' P:;i Upsilon fraternity, maltes hb residence in Elmira. He was a member of the freshman football squad in 1932. He has completed his first year on the editorial staff of The Concordiensi,;. Vedder M. Gilbett. who iB a mem- ber of the German Club, has ju~t c-ompll'tf'd· one year's servicl' with The Concordiensis. He lives in Am- sterdam and is· affiliated with the Psi Upsilon fraternity. North on Student Cotu1cil Robert North, finishing his sec- ond year on the staff of The Con· cordiensis, is a member of the Del- ta Upsilon fraternity. He won the VanOrden prize last year and is president of his cia~>'<. He is a mem- ber of the varsi-ty track squad and th£> student council. North won an 'aUa' for his work with the varsity cro\' country team last fall. Ht> livP~ in Walton. Albl'rt H. Stevenson. a member of the varsity baseball team, also playPtl with .thf' varHity football l•·;un la't fall. He is eompleting his fir s.t full y(·at· on the staff of The Concotdiensis. Stevenson is a n.ember of the Psi Upsilon frate1 n- ity and lives in Btooklyn. VanVechten Trumbull is a mem- ber of the Delta Phi fraternity and a residen.t of Schenectady. Last year he was president of the class of 1936, a member of the student council and the Mountebanks. He i:; completing his first year on the staff of The Concordiensis. not the the the Scholarship Grants Are Six Freshman Sports Are A warded Five Union Men Suggested by Committee (Continued from Page 1) Navy. He was assistant professor in Practical Theology at Newton· 'I'heologica:l Institution before com- ing to Chicago and now holds a similar position in ,the Chicago Theological Seminary affiliated (Continued h:om Page 1) with the Uni.verity of Chicago. He the swimming squad and belonged and has saved the Alumni Associa- is a member of the Prudential Com- to the Glee Club, the Psychology tion considerable sums of money mittee of the Amei'ican Board of Club and the Idol Club. He is a which have swelled their scholar- Cornmissifmers for Foreign Mis- sionS' (Congregational). member of the Kappa Alpha l,<'ra- ship funds. He finished his report Dr. Horton's literary activities ternity. by declaring that he wanted above include the authorship of two Oha:rles L. Raymond, '32, who re- all else to improve the band and books, \Out Into Life,\ 1925; and ceived his master's degree in chem-. was willing to go to -any length \A Legend of the Graal,\ 1926; and istry last June has received a uni- possible to accomplish this. He will the translation from the German· versity scholarship at M. :r. T., welcome any helpful suggestions of Earl Barth's \The Word of God where he is a candidate for the from studients or alumni. He par- and the World of Man;\ the editor- doctorate degree in chemistry. As ticularly stressed the fact that the ship (for America) of the Congre- an undergraduate at Union he was existence of the band is most im- g-ationa:l Quarterly (London), and affiliated with the Phi Gamma Del- portant and should be considered the frequent contribution of articles ta Fraternity and played in the ·first before any personal interests to papers and magazines. band. he or anyone else might have in it. I ; They're Off! I I You don•t have to be eAll-Ways kind to your throat I lib k. II llf II ' a oo 1e or o ow the horses 11 to wear a check vest or suit this Spring. Clothes for Univer- sity men have gone 11 horsey 11 . large In a way. JOSEPH'S Stan. Joseph Union '21 _so round, so ./iim~ so fof!; packed no loose ends \It's toasted\ We like to tell about the finer tobac· cos in Luckies-the choicest Turk- ish and domestic, and only the mild, clean center leaves-they taste better -then\ It's toasted\ -forthroat pro- tection. But we're just as proud of { Luckies are afl .. ways kind to your throat -- Only the Center Leaves-these·are the Mildest Leaves Copyrlght 1934, The .American Tobacco ComPIIDY· the way Luckies are made. They're so round and firm, so free from loose ends. That's why Luckies always \keep in condition\ -do not dry out. Luckies are always- in all-ways!- kind to your throat. NOT the top leaves-t/zey 're under-developed - -theyarelzarshl They taste better NOT the bottom leaves-they're i11[erior in, - quality-coarse a11d smzdy I fa VE al or It OI e' tr ol T b' tc lr:

.. , Eight THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1934 Hathaway 'El·ec· ted Dr. Hol'ton to Speak On upen ·him the honorary degree of Navy. He was 8&Sistant profe~sor Scholarship Grants Are Six Freshman Sports Are doctor of divinity in 1931.. in Practical Theology at Newton Edl \tor - In' - Ch. ··ef Topic' \Give Me a Man\ F II . h' d' t' Theological Institution before com- Awarded Five Union Men Suggested by Committee _ . 0 · owmg 18 or ma lOn as a ing to Chicago and now holds a (Continued from Page 1) --- Congregational Minister in 1915 he similar position in the Chicag~ Dr. Douglas Horton, minister of Anderson, Gilbert, Stevenson, the United Church of Hyde Park North and Trumbull Are. In Chicago, Illinois, since 1931, will speak on \Give Me a Man\ at the Chosen Associate EditOl'S chapel services on Sunday. Dr. Horton received his bachelor of arts degree from Princeton in (Continued from Page 1) 1912. He also studied at New Col- for excellence in English compooi- lege in Edinburgh, Scotland, Mans- tion. He has been a member of the· field College, Oxf<Jrd University, Philomathean society for the past· and the University of Tuebingen, Germany. He received the ·bachelor three years and has been a mem- of divinity degree in 1915 fram the ber af the Classical Club far a simi- Hartf<Jrd Theological Seminary. lar period; at present he is secre- · Laurence College and the Chicago Theol{)gical Seminary conferred tary and treasurer of the former or- ganization and vice-president of the latter. Woolman is an associate ed-. itor of the 1935 Garnet and assist-· ant business manager of the Moun- tebanks. Woolman originated the attack on functionless class officers in his editorials and continued the drive until the offices were abolished. He also wrote editorials about the ac- tivitieS of the college 'Y'. Berger, a member of the Mounte- banks and the German Club, is serving his second year on the edi- . torial staff of The Concordiensis. His home is in Poughkeepsie and he is a member of the Kappa Nu Fraternity. Berger has concentrated hi'' work or. the sports page, during the past year and has already written sev- ez-al sports columns. Whlpple in Glee Club Whipple, a member of the Chi Psi fraternity, makes his home in Binghamton. He is also managing editor of the 1935 Garnet and a member of the Glee Club for the third year, in addition to being a member of the college quartet and operator of the college carillon. During his freshman year Whipple played with the college band. The chief duties of the members of the Junior Board are those of an issue editor including giving out assignments, reading proof and taking charge of composition on days of publication. John Anderson, a member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity, makes his residence in Elmira. He was a member of the freshman foo·tball squad in 1932. He has completed his fin;t yea1 on the editorial staff of The Concon!iensis. Vedder M. Gilbert, who is a mem- ber of the German Club, has just completed one year's service with The Concordiensis. He lives in Am- sterdam and is affiliated: with the Psi Upsilon fraternity. North en Student Council Robert North, finishing his sec- ond year on the staff of The Con- cordiensis, is a member of the Del- ta Upsilon fraternity. He won the VanOrden prize last year and is president of his class. He is a mem- ber of the varsity track squad and thl' student council. North won an 'aUa' for his work with the varsity cross country team last fall. He lives in Walton. Albert H. Stevenson, a member of the varsity baseb-all team, also played with the varsity football tPam la\t fall. He is completing hi~ first full year on the staff of The Concordiensis. Stevenson is a member of the Psi Upsilon fratern· ity and lives in Brooklyn. VanVechten Trumbull is a mem- ber of the Delta Phi fraternity and a resident of Schenectady. Last year he was president of the class of 1936, a member of the student council and the Mountebanks. He is completing his first year on the staff of The Concordiensis. I :They're OH! I You don't have to be a \bookie\ or \follow the horses\ to wear a check vest or suit this Spring. Clothes for Univer- sity men have gone \horsey .. . large m a assumed his fl·rst pulpit as assistant Theological $eminary affiliated , (Continued. :h-om Page 1) minister of t:he First Church of·. with the Univerity of Chicago. He. the swimming squad and belonged and has saved the AlUll!ni Assoc.iia- Christ, Middletown, ·Conn., 'becom- is a member of the Prudential Com\ to the Glee Club, the Psychology . tion considerable sums of money ing minister in charge the follow- mittee of the American Board of Cl b d th C H · d h ld' th t t'l 'u an e Idol lub. e is a which have swelled their sch.olar- mg year an o · mg · e pos un 1 Commissioners for Foreign Mis- · 1925, when he accepted a call to ·Gions (Congregational). member of the Kappa Alpha Fra- ship funds. He finished his report the Leyden Congregational Church Dr. Horton's literary activities. ternity. by declaring that he wanted above of Brookline, Mass. He. served . include the authorship of two· Charles L. Raymond, '32, who re- al,l else to improve the band _and there as minister until the call books, \Out Into Life,\ 1925; and ceived his master's degree in chem-. was willing to go to any le:i;lgth came from Chicago for him to as- \A Legend of the Graal,\ 1926; and istry last June has received a uni- possible .to accompHsh this. He will sume cha::ge of the newly uni!ed the translation from the German versity scholarship at M. I. ·T., welcome any helpful suggestions Congregational and Presbyterian of Karl Barth's \The Word of God where he is a candidate for the· from stuc'Lents or alumni. He pa,r- Churches of Hyde Park. and the World of Man;\ the editor- doctorate degree in chemistry. As .ticuhwly stressed the fact that .the Dr. Horton's activities have not· ship (for America) of the Congre- an undergraduate at Union he was existence of the band· is most 1m- been confined exclusively to the g-ational Quattetly (London), and affiliated with the Phi Gamma Del• portant and s•hould .be considered work of his parish. During the the frequent contribution of articles ta Fraternity and play~ci in the ·first before any personal interests War he served as Chaplain in the to .papers and magazines. band. he ar· anyone· else might have in it. \It's toasted\ _so round, so .finn~ so /it/!; pocked no loose ends We like to tell about the finer tobac· cos in Luckies-the choicest Turk- ish and domestic, and only the mild, dean center leaves-they taste better -then\ It's toasted\ -for throat pro- tection. But we're just as proud of the way Luckies are made. They're so round and firm, so free from loose ends. That's why Luck.ies always \keep in condition\ -do not dry out. Luckies are always- in ~ways!-kind to your throat. way. { Luckies are all-ways kind to your throat -- NOT the top leaves-t/sey 'reu11aer•developetl JOSEPH'S Only the Center Leaves-these· are the Mildest Leaves Stan. Joseph Union '21 Copyright 1934, Tlla Amorlcan Tobacco Company, - -t!Jey.are harsh( They taste better NOT the bottom leaves-t/~ejl're inferior in - qzwlitj-coarse and sandy( r • I • ,1' • • • l • L ~ . Vo =?' L~ Gl ! t A: I No Pt Al' ,. 'I ! pro i \n<J ! an( I col! I its Scl 27 r the I Alt I 1 I i I peE be I thE bu: wh '] ma ga1 tic tio a)lJ . q\11 G1· COl in ha th• ga Er m! on St• ne di< l\lll pli of wi th' be m• BO gr th a I ar. M re .8,1: E. so h( ci fl; CE f( tl j ;.. ~

tee money alar- report ab(}ve .and Iei;lgth will pa,r· .the im- e in it. I i t I I I I. i. i !• )f. I ~: ,· 1 ! i ! I r I I , .. -~ L ;.-~ ~~ • • Alumni J He1:derson t ,ts To Present t WtH Play.. t Glee Club I!' I In Detroit l In Annual i Balll'oom l I Concert • • l__ ______ • _____ J -4><0>-- ... -. -. ._.._.....,. . Vol. LVII., No, 49 UNION COLLEGE, SOHENEC'FADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS Local Alumni Plan cALENDAR String Quartet To Assist At Concert NOVl•~L 'l'UNEH. 1-HTES!, LURE GOO TO SYRACUSE l'ROM ··Henderson's Band . To Play· at Detroit · Ballroom for Monih Glee Club Concert . · chess c1ub ~::~~:!. Knppa Nu And Dance April27 .. s:a~rs~· 6{~g· Meeting, smiman Hall, 7:30. Novelty Skit, Solo Numbe1·s, And String Quartet Will Complet~ Musical Program Pt;oceeds .for Scholarship Alumni Seeldng Local Boy to Receive Scholarship Award ,. The Glee Club will offer a choral program that will be balanced by a \novelty skit,\ several solo number::;. and a group of compositions by the college string quartet when it holds its annual concert and dance in . Schenectady on Friday night, April 27 at the Mohawk Golf Club, under the· auspices of the Schenectady Alumni Association of thP C'Ol!PgP. Third Benefit Appeai·ance This will be the third annual ap- pearance of .the Glee Club for the benefit of the scholarship fund of Physics. Club meeting, Physics Laboz:atory, 8:00 p. II\• A. S. of C. E. Meeting, Civil En- gineering Bldg,, 8:00 p. m. Tomorrow 'Daily Assembly-- -Speaker, Leslie R. Long. \What Union College Meant to Me.\ . Y. M. C. A. Meeting, Silliman Hall, 2:15 p. m. Glee Club Rehear·sal, Hanna Hail, 3:30 p. m. Garnet Goblins Rehearsal, Silli· man Hall, 7:30 p. m. Baseball, Union vs. MiddlPbury, at Schenect\).dy. Thursday Daily Assembly- Speaker, Rev. James A. Perry. Fri<lay Daily Assembly-Or. E. A. Tid- marsh. Tennis, Union vs. Haverford at Haverford, Penna. American Students Invited to Moscow the local alumni who are already All-Union Soviet of Students busy finding a Schenectady boy who wlll receive the award. The string quartet has had re- · mar~able s~ccess for a college or- Announces Special Sessions Covering Many Subjects ganization. The four players prac- --- tice regularlY of their own voli- · (Special To The Conc01•diPnsis) tion and have acquireQ. .a respect- NEW YORK, April 17.~The All- a)lle repertoire of music. The string Union Soviet of Students,. whose . q\lartet fit•st appeared with the headquat:ters are in Moscow, today Glee Club in February, 1932,. at the 'addressed an official invitation to concert at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel .A:mencan ,;tudent!l to attend a spe- l:n New York.· Since then this group cia! international session of the has' becorne an important part of Moscow University Summer School, the club's activities. beginning July 21t>t. The invitation (FJ•om SyracusE' Daily Orange)· Scintillating rhythms fwm the rna,;ter baton of Willard Alexan- der, lured 300 couples to the Syracuse Junior Prom at Archi- bold gymnasium despite the threats of a December-like snow- storm. Evening gown and dress suit blended in an atmosphere of smoothness beneath a canopy of orange and blue, the predomi• nant color theme. Casting its myriad hues here and there and everywhere, the crystal bull oc- cupied the position of promi- nence. \The Prom ha» enjoyed the greatest succe,;s of any such furtctien held recently,\ Benja- min Berry, chairman of the Prom committee, declared Fri- day night. Union Represented At Model Assembly Five ~tudent.s Take Part of Hungarian Delegation in League of Nations Meeting By DANIEL F. FLIN:N Famous Orchestra to P,lay at Greystone· Ballroom Before Junior Pro~,. Engagement Alexander at Syracuse Prom Headliner Is Accorded Huge Success at Syracuse Wo1·d was received by the Junior . Prom Committee over the week-end that Fletcher ·Hendet-soni who brings hiti famous orchestrl!. to Un- . ion for the Junior Prom, May 11th, opposite Willard Alexand€r, opened .a month's engagement at the Grey- stone Ba.Jlroom, Deroit's finest dunce floor. Prior to his opening in Detroit, Henderson played· for two months at the Roseland Ball- room in New York, which was pre- ceded by a several month's tour of the circuit of the Paramuunt-Pub- lix Theatres. Signed for Many Tours The c<:>mmittee is fortunate in se- A Union delegation consisting of Daniel F. Flinn II, '34, chairman, Everett S. Painter, '34, L. Reed Tripp, '34,. Rankine Hinman, · '35, and Hugh Elwyn, '35, reprPsentPd. Hungar·y at the Model League of curing Henderson for the Prom, as this will be his only stop in the north. He will come direct from Cheystone to play for the Prom and the following night wiU· open an- other theatre tout·. Fletcher Hendei 1 sen needs no· in- troduction to dance lovers as he is the perennial favorite 'o fthe color- ed orchestras. His fifteen years of popl.\la.J.ity throughout the country ·. · .Quartet Well Balanced was sent to the Institute of Inter- . . . . national Education, · 2 West 45th The ac~u.tsibon of a cellist, .Ed~,, street, New York. The Summer gar F. Gmllot,. a !reshman from School, under the auspices of the E~ie, Pa., this yea1 has helped to Anglo-American Institute of the make the group !'-- .w.ell balanced First Moscow University, will last one. In the two ywlimsts, Alan C. six weeks. Lectures and instruction Stewart and David Locke of Sche- wiil be in Englisl:! ,and wlll be given n~ctady,, t~e college has two splen- by a faculty of the fmemost Soviet; drd musicians ':\ho ~ave been play- professors and specialists. From left to right, Prince E. OlE>son,. '34, Alan C. Stewart, '35, David J. Locl•e, '34, and Edgar F, Guillot, '37. ~ations Assembly of the Middle Atlantic States April 12th, 13th, and :14th at Buclmell Univet·sity in Lewisburg, Pa. Twenty-four Past- ei·n colleges wet·e rep1 esented at this· assembly. Russia Recognize<\ is comparabl-e to the position Paul Whiteman holds among the white bands. While other colored bands have flashed across the horizon and gained nationwide popul~,trity by their sensational and unusual orchestrations, Henderson staked his future on danceable music,. His judgement has been vindicated by The first Plenary Session of the. his long years of supremacy. Al- Coggeshall Traces Events I G. W. Van Vranken, '85 In Pan-American Politics I Succumbs to Hem·t Attack Assembly was opened by Kennf:th though his music is dominated by Forbes, of Columbia University,. the fast teinpo, his many smooth president of the Council of th!l melodious numbers are· a delight Model League. The committee .on for all. the Sino-Japanese question· was AleXllllldl'r Captivates Syracuse lng together s.mce ~nfancy. Locke In the Unit,ed States, the venture plays ~irst violm. Prmce E. Oleson, is sponsored l;ly the Institute of In- of Chi?ago.' completes the gro.up ternationel Educl).tion, whose direc- with his v1ol!l. He h!ls be:n With tor, Dr. stephen Duggan, is at the quartet smce its. mcept10n and present in Moscow to complete ar- before that played With the Instru- rangements for attendance by \Latin America concerns us vit- Mr. Geotge Williamson Van headed by Everett Painter of Union Willard Alexander,. feature band who was also a member of the Con- at Union's Junior Prom, scored an- tinuatien Committee d·uring the other huge success at the Syracuse past year. Junior Prom on Friday night and mental club. American students. Tldmarsll To Direct The summer session at the Uni- versity of Moticow is open to stu· The quartet will probably play dents, school teachers, or soeial some of the following in their workers; courses being offered art> group: Mozart's \.Menuetto\ from in Education, Economics, P,;ychol- the \Thirteenth Quartette,\ Haydn's ogy, Sociology, Aeronautics, At t al}egro moderato from his Opus 77. and Literature, according to the di- and Glazounow's \lnterludium in rector uf the Anglo-American Insti- Modo Antico.\ tute, I. V. Sollins. The purpose of ally as a nation, both in a com- Vranken, '85, died Sunday of a mercia! and in a political sense,\ heart attacl\ after a week's illness. o>aid Robert F. Coggeshall of Mr. Van Vran!Hm, a prominent the International General Elec-, Schenectadian in the contracting tric Company Saturday in Daily and 1 eal estate business, was born Assembly in observance of Pan-! at Lishakill, October 12, 1863. He American day. \Latin-A met iC'a is was educated in the local school~, the land of the futurE> thP I Union Classical Institute. Ur\ion great future,\ he continuPd. \It be- College, Cornell University, and the hooves us as intelligent C'itizPns to Albany Law School. make ourselves acquainted with it, [ I!! 18,87 aftt>r passing his bar PX· and to acquile a sympathetc under- ammattons Mr. Van Vranlten came standing of its problems. ' to Schenectady and practiced his At a special session of the Assem- again at the Hotel Utica on Satur- bly on Friday, Russia's credentials day night. On Saturday, .the· or- and qualifications were discusseu chestra broadcast two half hour by a committee appointed to inves- programs over Station WIBX ligate the validity of her claims. Utica, newly affiliated station of The assembly unanimously voteq the Columbia Broadcasting System. thP adl'nis!<iOn 'Of Russin, which was Both of these programs wel'e re- r·epresented by the Bucltnell dclegn- broadcast by Station WLW, Cin- tion. cinnati, in preference to the orig- In the sN•ond Plenary session on inal sustaining program of· that Saturday, Rankine Hinman .ad- station, which has a reciprocal ar- dressed the meeting with a plea for rangement w1th WIBX to rebroad- the ·acceptance of the report of the cast the prominent programs of ·Committee on Technical Organiza- each station at any time. The Utica tion which was considering the station reported the greatest num- problem of Minorities. Hinman had ber of inquiries in the history of previously taken an active part ih the station, while WLW reported the formulation. of the repot t of the an unusual number of enthusiastic committee. Reed Tripp also took a phonecalls and telegrams. The concert will be under the di- the school is to afford visiting stu· rection of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh dents a clear conception of Soviet .and he will be assisted by Herbert achievements in cultural and scien· E. Hausser, the student leader and tific fields since the 1917 revolution, Mr. Coggeshall traced in his talk profession with the late Judge Ed- the significant events in our rela- ward D. Cutler. tlonships with the Latin American MI'. Van Vranken became inter- countries during the last 15 months ested in real estate in 1890. He and gave an outline of the problem was associated with those who pro- as it faces the United States gov- moted the Van Curler theatre, and ernment. the development of Central Parlt· soloist. Mr. Sollins added. Dan~ Follows Concert Visitors will be offered a wide program of social, .cultural and Dancing will follow the musical 'spor·t activities in addition to .aca- hour with the Garnet Goblins, offi- demic worl,, 1\.pproxilnately four cial Union College dance orchestra, weeks of the session will be spent furnishing the music for the dan- in residence at the University of cers. A special price has been set Moscow ,und two weeks in a 3,000 for students. Tickets are for sale at mile field work trip to other Soviet \It is well to touch upon these way and DeCamp avenue. very active part in the committee Vanity Cases for Favol's discussion and succeeded in accom- matters even so lightly ,\ he con- ---o--- cluded, \for we are apt to be un- aware of this great region to the south. It does not concern us in- dividually, and we are not aware that it concerns us at all. We are preoccupied with our . own affairs, yet these Latin-American matters plishing a desirable point by clev- The faVQl''l thi:o year will be erly rewording ·one of the proposals. round, black enameled van·ity cases. the News Bureau. cities. Student Exposes the Clever Frauds Of Modern Slot-Machine Rackets are our own affairs.\ Sale of Tickets for Neutral Dance Exceeds Expectations By HARRY M. BAU.ER, '35 The slot machine has become a .petty business, how much you can The financial success of the Neu- familiar sight in this country, yet estimate from the early machines tral dance seems assured due to the very few people know anything which held about $75.00 without be· large advance sale of tickets which about the mechanics of the device coming overloaded. Recently a has exceeded all expectations. or the men who run them. Often new model was announced with \a It is stated that City governments new and ·larger coin box, which The affair comes as a result of operate the machines, but with the makes collection often less neces· the desire for more social activities exception of Reno, Nev. this is not sary.\ for the whole college expressed in true. And the men who are \kings\ Operators of that petlod who a recent poll held in daily chapel. of the racket never see a machine. thought that they had discovered a The dance, sponsored by the Pyra- They are owned for the most part gold mine were .not long in discov- mid Club, a neutral organization, by small operators who \ldck in\ ering their mistake, fm• politics, the is open to all who wish to attend. to the right parties with great regu- art of removing money from -the The Garnet Goblins will play at the larity. masses 9,s painlessly as possible, dance which is to be held at the Slot machines were designed as a saw a new field here. A new era of Van Curler from nine to twelve Sat· vending device, the idea being that civic righteousness ensued, during urday night. Tickets may be they would stimulate the sales of which laws were enacted to prevent secured at Silliman !{all any the mjnts and candy sold through the use of such a gambling device- afternoon except Saturday, or them by giving the customer a lit- Unless the right people got a cut. they may be obtained from· tie fun with tokens of no value. Not Often a :raid occurs and machines the following: John Daly, N. A. .for long, however. Storekeepers be- are seized. This happened last sum- Foot, Jr., M. Froehlich, George gan to give merchan<;lise in ex- mer in Kansas City, where ,$70,000 Jones, Herman Kluge, Anthony change for the tokens,· and n \lias a in machines was' seized and ordered ·Monda, W. D. Newman, D. J. Niles·, short step to remove the mint ven- destroyed. But nobody has yet been Fred Pasquarella, W. B. Plummer, der entirely and load the machine able to find the pieces. Milton Pozefsky, Michael Priznar, with coins. Here was a money- As far as the machine itself is· or AI Warner. bl . d it t · th y The dance will be semi-formal maker; the most potent e:am 1l'lg concerne. , opera es on e ver devic!7.of rnodehi. tilil:es; ideal be- .sound mathematical principal of and will be chaperoned by Prof. cause it was ~ll).al),, !llll.i.Q;m.ei:tiCi and uneven odds. When i~ leaves the and Mrs. Charles T. Male, ·and Mr. would do a tremendous volui!le of (Continued on Page 4) .and Mrs. Kurt von Forstmeyer. Cap aml Gown Measurements Will Be Talu•n First of Week Measurements for the seniors' caps and gowns will be made next Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons from two to five in Sil· liman Hall, it was announced yes- terday by C. William Huntley, chairman of the cap and gown com- mittee. These cases are fitted inside with Hugh Elwyn, who served . on the a compartment. for loose powder Committee of Twenty-one, of which and one for rouge. The o1:1tside is Painte1· was chairman, precipitated finished in black enamel with a a very interesting discussion and silver band, The crest of Union managed to secure several of his College will be mounted on each <Continued. on Page 3) cover. Diversion Old Days For. Freshmen in Good Was Table Gymnastics The gowns will be distributed shortly before Moving-up Day and the rented ones collected immedi- ately after Commencement. The By VEDDER M. GILBERT rental fee for the cap and gown will Ta•ble gymnastics were at one an inferior renditbn .of a song the be three dollars arid fifty cents and time the favorite pastime for the poor, frightened greenie was order- four dollu.r depo:;it will be required, freshmen. Every effort was made ed to dance to the music of howl- this to be refunded wht>n the lwwns to include them in the daily cur- ing second year men, and the are returned. riculum. Often the ·sophomores· cllmlting of pans. Gowns may be purchaRPd at a went out of their way to see that Next came, \A yell for yow· val'iety of prices, the lowest being the exercises were uccomplishetl. class,\ followed by, \What's \youl' seven flollat» and fifty cPnts. Once th1: Sophs went so far as to name?'~. \Spell it!\ \Spell it back· ------- -o~ ---- ·· march downtown to the accpmpani- wards,\ and \ParAe it!\ By. that Dixon Ryan Fox to Speak On ment of a tin horn. A raid was time the froshie was completely made upon all stary freshmen and .confused. Modern At·t to Faculty Women· when several were collected they The final command in. table gym· were brought back to the gym to be ilastics was that the yearling .should \set up,\ slip his leg~> thr.ou,gh the arm holes Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, president- Setting up consisted of putting a of his vest, button the vest about elect, will give a talk on \Modern frosh on a table, directing him to hi·S waste, and pretend he was·clad Art\ at the meeting of the Faculty take off his coat. collar, necktie and in swimming trunks. \Now lay on Woman's Club Friday afternoon at shoes. When the disrobing was ac- the table and swim,\ came an order. the home of Mrs. Warren Taylor. complished sonie burly Soph, like The next moment found the frosh Mrs. Taylor, who is in charge of our present day football captain_, on the floor with the table on top the meeting, is being assisted by dema.nded the yearling to sing. The of him and his tormentors gleef.ully Mrs. James Brewster, Mrs. Leonard alma mater was the favorite re- laughing at his plight. . B. Clai'k, Mrs. Frederick Grover, quest,. for a haircut was sure to fol- Many a freshman preferred being Mrs_ Sylvester Haesner, Mrs. Elliott .low when the frosh failed to !mow \set up'l to bt'ing none too gently Hatfield, Mrs. Ernest Ligon, Miss the words. .drullped into the rubbish chittered Mildred March, and Mrs. D. Rich- Af~t h t 11 d t b waters of the well in Jackson's gar- ai'd Weelts, er w a usua Y prove o e den.

J t I Are ,j ttee .J l ' :l I I ', 'l ;ij and >j : l will 'l the l im- I ,j ) ' in it. I i . , l > l .'! r----~ 1 Fletcher · ! Henderson 1 Will Play 1 I In Detroit I 1 1 Ballroom I , I I I ,t__ _____________ l Alumni To Present Glt>e Club In Annual Cunceet I -----~- ·-·-·---.; Vol. LVII., No. 49 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TlfESI>AY, APRIL 17, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS Local Alumni Plan Glee Club Concert And Dance April27 CAI.ENDAR 'I'onight String Quartet To Assist At Concert! NOVEL 'l'UNES. HUES, LURI<; 61111 '1'0 SYRACUSE Pl~O!H Henderson's Band To Play at Detroit Ballroom for Month Novelty Skit, Solo Numbers, And String Quartet Will. Complete Musica'l Program. Proceeds for Scholarship . Alumni Seeking· Local Hoy to Receive Scholarship Award The Glee Club will offer a. chota! program that will be balanced by a \novelty ~kit,\ :;everal :oolo num!Jen; and a group of cumpo:oilions by the college string quartt•t whcn it hold:o its annual concert and danPP in Schenectady on Friday night, Apt il 27 at the Mohawl<: Golf Club, undet the auspices of thP RchenPctacly Alumni As,;ociation of I hP collP)~<' Third BPnefit ApJIP>aranc~ This will be the third anmml ap- pearance of the Glee Club for thP benefit of the scholarship fund of the local alumni who are al!cacly busy finding a Schenectady buy who will receive the aware;!. The string quartet has had rP- marltable success for a college or- ganization. The four players prac- tice regularly of their own voli- tion and have acquired a reHpect- · able repertoire of music. ThP string . quartet fir·st appeared with lht> Glee Club in February, 1932, at tht> concert at the Ritz-Carlton HotPl in New York. Since then this group has become an important pat t of the club's activities. Quartet Well Blllancetl Chess Club Meeting, Knppa Nu House, 7:30. Spanish Club Meeting, Silliman Hall, 7:30. Physics Club meeting, Physics r,aboratory, 8:00 Jl. m, A. S. of C. E. Mpeting, Civil En- gineering Bldg., 8:00 p. m. Tomorrow D.a.ily Assembly- Speaker, Leslie R. Lung, \What Union College Meant to Me.\ Y. M. C. A. Meeting, SI.J:liman Hall, 2:15 p. m. Glee Club Rehearsal, Hanna Hall, 3:30 p. m. Garnet Goblins Rehearsal, Silli- man Hall, 7:30p.m. Bdse!Jall, Union vs. Mitldl~!Jury, at Schenecta·\}y. 'I'Imrsday Daily AshPmbly Sp£>altt>l, RPV. James A. I'eny. Friday Daily A!lsPmbly Dt. E, A. >r'id- mar~h. Tennb, Union vs. Havt•t·ford at Hu verfot d, PPnna. American Students Invited to Moscow AU-Union Soviet of Students Announces Special Sessions Covering Many SubjectH (SpPcial To The ConcoJ\!li<'nsis) NEW YORK, April 17.-The All- Union Soviet of Students, who:;e headquarters are in Moscow, toda} addt esseJ an official invitation to Ame11can students to attend a spe- cial international o;ession of the Moscow University Summer School. beginning July 21st. The invitation was sent to the Institute of Inter- national Education, 2 West 45th The acquisition of a cellist, Ed- . street, New York. The Summer gar F. Guillot, a freshman from School, under the auspices of the Erie, Pa., this year has helped to Anglo-American Institute of the make the group a well balanced First Moscow University, will last one. In the two violinists, Alan C. six weeks. Lecture:> and instruction Stewart and David Locke of Sche- will be in English ,and wlll be given nectady, the college has two splen- by a faculty of the fot emost Soviet· did musicians who have been play- profe::<sors and specialists. lng together since infancy. LockP In the United States, the venture plays first violin. Prince E. Oleson. is sponsot·ed by the Institute of In- of Chicago, completes the group ternationel Education, whose direc- with his viola. He has been with tor, Dr. Stephen Duggan, is at the quartet since its inception and present in Moscow to complete ar- before that played with the Instru- rangemPnts for attendance 'bY mental club. AmE'rican studt\nts. Tldmarsh To Direct The summer session at the Uni- ver;ity of Moscow Is open to stu- dents, school teachers, or soc in I workers; cour::<es being offered arP in Education, Economics, Psychol- ogy, Sociology, Aeronautics, At t and Lilt' I attu·e, according to the di- tector of the Anglo-American Ino;ti- tute, I. V. Sollins. The purpose of the school is to afford visiting stu- dents a clear conception of Soviet achit>vements in cultural and scien- tific fields since the 1917 revolution. Mr·. Sollins added. The quartet will probably play some of the following in thPir group: Mozart's \Menuetto\ from the \Thirteenth Quartette,\ Haydn'\ allegro moderato from hi;; Opu~ 77. and Glazounow·~ \IntPiiudium in Modo Antico.\ The concert will be under the di- rection of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh and he will be assisted by Herbert F. Hausser, the student leader and soloist. Dance Follows Concert Dancing will follow the musical hour with the Garnet Goblins, offi- cial Union College dance orchestra, furnishing the music for the dan- cers. A special price has been set fm· students. Ticltets are for sale at the New::J Bureau. Visitors will be offered a wide program of social, .cultural and spor·l activities in addition to aca- demic worlt. Approximately four weeks of thP session will be spent in residence at the University of Moscow .and two weelts in a 3,000 mile field wut k trip to other Soviet cities. --~-----------~---~----~----~------~~------ Student Exposes the Clever Frauds Of Modern Slot-Machine Rackets (From Synwm;P Daily OrangP) Scintillating rhythms ftom the master baton of Willard A!Pxan- dl:'r, l·m·ed 300 couple~ to the SyracusP Junior Prom at Archi- buld gymna:oium de:<pite the thr·eaL-; of a DeC'Pmher·-lilie snow- , gtorn1. Evt\ning\ gown and drt\ss suit , blended in an u tmo~pher e of smoothness beneath a canopy of orange and blue, the predomi- nant color theme. Casting its myriad hues here and there and everywhere, the c1 y,;tal ball' oc- cupied the po~itiun of promi- nence. \ThP Pl'Om has Pnjoycd thr> greatctit ,;ucce;;::; of any such funetiun held recPntly,\ BPnja- miB Beny, ella it man of the Pt om cumrnitlee, declured Fri- day night. Union Represented At Model Assembly Five ~tudents Take Part of Hungarian Deleg·ation in League of Nations Meeting lly DANIEL F. I<'LlNN A Union delegation consisting of Daniel F. Flinn II, '34, chairman, Everett S. Paint!'!', \34 L. Ilt>ed Tripp, '34, Rankine Hinman, '35, ·and Hugh Elwyn, '35, rept PsentPd Hungary at thP Model League of =\'ations A~~cmbly of the Midd!P Atlantic States Apt il 12th, 13th, and 14th at Duclmf'll UnivPrsity in Lewi-;burg, Pn. TwPnty-four f'nst· FamouH Orchestra to l 1 lay at Greystone Ballroom Before Junior Prom Eng·agement Alexandet· at Syracuse Prom Headliner Is Accorded Huge Success at Syracuse Wot·d was received by the Junior· Prom CommittPe uvt•z· the wPek-end that Fletchpr· Henderson, who bri·ngs his famous orchestra to Un- ion fot· the Junior Prom, May 11th, opposite> Willard Alexander, opened a month's engagement at the Grey- stem!' Ballroom, Dewit's finest dance flout'. Prior to hilll opening in Dl:'troit, Henderson played· for two months a.t the Roseland Ball- room in New York, which was pre- ceLled by a o;everal month's tour of thP circuit of the Paramount-Pub- lix Theatres. Sigm•d fur .1\'lan~' Totu•s The committee illl fottunate in llle- curing Ht>ntlet·son for the Prom, as this will be his only stop in the north. He will come dit ect from Gt eystone to play for the Pwm and the followin~ night will open an- other theatt e tour. ei n college~ Y...'C'I P this assembly. ll'!JI (•:;Pnlt•tl Fletcher Hentler'son needs no in- twduction tu d·ance lovers as he is ·the pet·ennial favorite o fthe color- ed orchellltras. Hts fifteen years of pupuhu ity throughout the country i:> comparable to the position Paul Whiteman holds among the white bands. While other colored bands have flashed across the horizon and gained nationwide popularity a I by their sensational and unusual From left to right, Prince E. Oh'son, '34, Alan C. l\ltewa•·t '35, David J. Loclte, '34, and Edgar F. Guillot, '37. Coggeshall Tl'aces Events 1 G. W. Van Vranken, '85 I~L::n:::~:·i::~\.:o::t~: i s::cu::.:~o :: 1 ~::,:!!::~ Russia R!'cognizcd The first Plenary Session of the Assembly was opened by Kenneth Fot bes, of Columbia University, pt·esident of the Council of the Model League. The committee on the Sino-Japanese question was headed by Everett PaintPr of Union who was also n membPr of the Con- tinuation CommittPc during the past year. At a special session of the Asst\ln- bly on Friday, Russia's credentials and qualificatiOns were discussed by a committee appointed to inves- tigute the va.Iidity of her· claims. The a;;~embly unanimou!lly voted th•• admh;sJOn uf Rus::;Ht. whi<'h was tt·pt esPnt etl by the Buclmell dPlega- tion. ally as a nation, both in a com- I Vranken, '85, died Sunday of a mercia! and in u political st>nse,\ heart attack after a wt>elt's illness. ~aid Rubert F. Coggeshall of I Mr. Van Vranlu.>n, a prominent the Int.erm:tional Genetnl Elec- Schcnectadian in the contraf'ting tric Company Saturday in Daily and 1 cal t'state buo;ine>H, was bot n Assembly in ob~crvanct\ of Pan- at Lishakill, October· 12, 1863. Ht> American day. \L:~tin-Ame: ica i,.; was educatt•d in the local school!-i, the land of th<' t'ututt\ thP Union Classical Institutt>, l'n10n gt·eat future,\ hP continuPd. \It bt•-: Collt•ge, Cornell Univetstty, and the lwoves u:; as intelligf'nt dtizPnR to! Albany Law RchooL make oun•elves acquaintPd with tt, In l~R7 aflt·r pa,;,.;in~ hi:; bar PX- In thP ~ .. rand l'lPnarv \Ps-<ion on and to acquil e a sympa.llwtc unt!et · aminn.tions l\11·. \'an Vt anl<Pn rnme S.t.tut day, IlankinP {!inman ,ad- standing of its problems. I to Sch~nectB;dY nnd practiced hiR dressed the meeting with a plea for Mr. Coggeshall traced in his talk profession wtth the latE' Judge Ed- the acceptance of the report of thP the significant events in our rela- ward D. Cutler. Committee on Technical Organiza- tionships with the Latin American Mr·. Van Vranken became inter- tion which was considering thc countries during the last 15 months ested in real estate in 1890. He problem of Minorities. Hinman had and gave an outline of the problem was associated with those who pro- pteviously taken an active part ih as it faces the United States gov- moted the Van Curler theatre, and the formulation of the repot t of the ernment. 1 the development of Central Park- committee. Reed Tripp ah;o took a orchestrations, Henderson staked his. future on danceable music. His judgement has been vindicated by his long years of supremacy. Al- though his music is dominated by the fast tempo, his many smooth melodiouH numbers are a ddight for all. Alexandt'r Captivates Ryracuse Willard Alexander, feature band at Union's Junior Prom, scored an- other huge success at the Syracuse Junior Prom on Friday night and again at the Hotel Utica on Satur- day night. On Satmday, the or- chestra broadcast two half hour programs over Station WIBX t:tica, newly affiliated station of the Columbia Br·oadcasting System. Both of theHe programs Wt\re re- broadcast by Statwn WLW. Cin- cinnati, in prefe1 ence to ,the orig- inal sustaininM program of that ,;ta.tion, which has a 1 ectprocal ar- rangement wtth \VIBX to rebroad- cast the prominent programs of each station at any time. The Utica station reported the greatest num- ber of inquiries in thE> history of the station, while WLW rPported an unusual number of enthusiastic phonecalls and telegrams. Vanity Cases for Favors \It is well to t?uch u~on these 1 . way and DeCamp avPnue. very active part in .the committee matters even so !tghtly , he con- -- -· --o~- · .. ·· discussion and succeeded in accom- cluded, \for we are apt to be un-~ , , M t plillhing a desirable point by clev- The favors thi~ year will be aware of this great region to t.h\ ( ap and hown e.asuremen s Prly t·f>wording one of the pmposuls. s<;m,th. It does not concern us m- \Viii Be Tak(>n First of \Vee.k Hugh Elwyn, who served on the dtvtdually, and we are not awa.rt\ Committee of TwPnty\one of which that It concerns us at all. We are 1 1 --- Painter was chairman, pr·ecipitated preoccupied w!th our, own affairs: Measurcments for the \eniot s' a very inte.rr>\ting discussion and yet these Latm-~m~.ncan matters caps and gowns will be made next managf'd to secure several of his are our own affatrs. Monday, Tuesday and Wedncsday · ~--·-0- afternoons from two to fiw in Sil- <Continurd on Page 3> round, black enamelt\d vanity cases. These cases are fitted inside with a <\om pat tment for· loose powder and one for rouge. The outside is finished in black enamel with a silvet· band. The crest of Union College will be mounted on each cover. Sale of Ticl{ets for Neutral liman Hall, it wa\ announeed yes- terday by C. William Huntley, Dance ExceedH Expectations chairman uf the cap and gown com- mittee. For Freshmen in Good By IIARRY M. BAI\.ER, '35 --- The gowns will bP disttibuted The slot machine has become a petty business, how much you can The financial success of the Neu- shortly before Movmg-up Day and Diversion Old Days Was Table Gymnastics familiar sight in this countt;y, yet ·estimate ft·om the early machines tral dance seems assured due to the the rented ones collected immedi- . very few people know anything which held about $7ri.OO without be- large advance salc of ticke>fs which ately after CommPncement. The b h h · f th d · · 1 d d RPcently a rental fpf' for the cap and gown will a out t e meo anrcs o · e evwe commg over oa e . has exceeded all expcctulions. or the mtln who run them. Often new model was announced with \a be three doll at H and fifty cPnts ant! It is stated that City governments new and largPr coin box, which The affair c.omes us a result of four dolltt!' deposit will he IP<Jllil Pd. operate the machines, but with the makes collection often less neces- the desire for more ~ocial activitiP>' this to be refunded whPn thP iwwns exception of Reno, NE'v. this is not sary.\ for thz whole college expt e,;sed in are returned. true. And the men who arP \kings\ Operators of that period who a recent poll held in daily chapeL Gowns may he purchasPd at a of the racltet never see a machine. thought that they had discovered a The dance, sponsm Ptl by the Pyra- v:uiPty of pt·ic·Ps, the lowe't ht'int~ They are owned for the most part gold mine were not long in discov- mid Club. a neutral organization, ;;even dollats and fifty cPnl\. by small operator·s who \!tick in\ ering their mistake, for politics, the is open to all who wish to attend. o to the right parties with great regu- art of removing money from the The Gamet Goblins will play at thP Dixon Ryan Fox to Stleak On larity. masses as painlessly as possible. dance which is to be held at thP Slot machines were designed as a ~aw a new field here. A new era of Van Curler from nine to twelve Sat Modern Art to Faculty \\'omen vending device, the idea being that civic righteousness ensued, during urday night. Tickets. may bP __ _ they would stimulate the sales of which laws were enacted to prevent secured at Silliman Hall any the mints and candy sold through tbe use of such a gambling device- afternoon except Saturday, OJ Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, prcsidcnt- them by giving the customer a lit- unless the right people got a cut. they may be obta.ined from elect, will give a talk on \Modern tie fun with tokens of no value. Not Often a raid occurs and machines the following: John ~aly, N. A. Art\ at the mePting of the Faculty for long, however. Storekeepers be- are seized. This happened last sum- Foot, Jr., M. Froehhch, George I Woman's Club Friday afternoon at gan to give merchandise in ex- mer in Kansas City, where $70,000. Jones, Herman Kluge, Anth.ony the homt\ of Mr·~. Warren Taylor. change for the tokens, and it was .a in machines was seized and ordered Monda, W. D. Newman, D. J .. Nrles, Mrs. Taylor. who is in charge of short step to remove the mint ven- destroyed. But nobody has yet been Fred Pas(Juarella, W. B. Plummer, the meeting, is being assistt\d by der entirely and load the machine able to find the pieces. Milton Pozcfsky, Michael Priznar, Mts. James Brewster, Mt·s. Leonard with coins. Here was a money- As far as the machine itself is or AI Warner. B. Clark, Mrs. Frederic!< Gr·ovct·, maker; the most p<;>tent gambling concerned, it operates on the very The dance will be semi-formal Mrs. Sylvester Haesner, Mrs. Elliott device- of rnodertr times, i'deal be- sound mathematical principal of and will be chaperoned by Prof. Hatfield, Mrs. Ernest Ligon, Miss cause It was !jm.aU, ~~<.v.tomatic, and .uneven odds. When i~ leaves the and Mts. Charles T. Male, and Mr. Mildred March, and Mrs. n. Rich- would do a tremendous volume of (Continued on Page 4) and Mrs. Kurt von Forstmcyer. ar·d Weeks. By VEIHH~R M. GILBERT Ta,ble gymnastics were at one an inferior rendiliJn uf a song the lime the· favorite pastime for the poor, frightened g1 eenie was order- frebhmen. Every effort wus made ed to da·ncP to the music of howl- to include them in the daily em- ing :>econd yea.t· lliPn, and the riculum. Often the sophomores clanking of pans. wPnt out of their way to see that Next came, \A yPll for your the exerci~e:; were a.ccomplished. clasR,\ followed by, \\Vhnt' your Once the Sophs went so far as La name·:\ \SpPll it:\ \~pell it back- march downtown to the accompani- ward,;,\ and \Par~e it:\ By that ment of a tin horn. A raid was timP the froshie was completely made upon all stary freshmen and confused. when several w~ere collected they The flnal command in table gym- were brought back to the gym to be nastics was that the yearling should \set up.\ slip his legs through the arm holes Sl\tting up consisted of putting a of his vt>st, button the vest about frosh on a table, directing him to his waste, and pretend he was clad takE> off his coat. collar, necktie and in swimming; trunks. \Now lay on shoes. When the disrobing was ae- tlw table and swim,\ came an order. complished sam~ burly Roph. likt\ The nPxt moment found the frosh our present day football captain, on the floor with the table on top dPmnnded the yearling to sing. Tht> of him and his tormentors gleef.illly alma mater was the favorite re- la.ughing at hiR plight. quest, for a haircut waH sUle to fol- Many a fre~hman preferred being low when the frosh failed to know \set up'~ to bPing none too gently the words. dropped into the rubbish cluttered ·wntPrs of the WPII in Jacluwn's gar- After what usually proved to be t!en.

.. , Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 193.1 FARRAGO cia! l'eturn. :M~re money has bc~n allotted ~-- I to the committee this year than last and that ·.1 I means a larger attendance will be necessary ·--- • _. by .------------------....., to break even. t:...;;=====;;;:;.;;===;;;;;============;;;;;;.~ Collegiana: <Jory of Silliman Hall has reintroquced himself to tennis. . Ran'kine Hinman \.tl. Causa Per•a Parol6 Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 ~~~~(trd 1 -M,iat: .!!~G The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Ch1·istmas and spt•ing recesses. Publication Office, Tne Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere In the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union Colleg;e Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all buslnesa comrnunlcaUons to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communications to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi Psi Lodge, Union College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg ........... Business Manager Donald B. Moulton .... , .. , ... Managing Editor Joseph A. Woolman .............. News Editor Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor Thornton W. Whipple .... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. Anderson R. North A. Stevenson V. Gilbert V. Trumbull Issue Editors: V. Tt·umlmll, R. C. North The factors of advantnge n.re many l'C'- e-ele-rl ):li« wny ou.t of office an bones· And is making eut swell. Fex, the·!!;;====;;;;,;;;=:;;;;;;;;=====~ d . J • p Tl d t M 11 ·intact. Many a time and 0f.t they 'bold lad who ~auled apant the': gar lllg . I:H1l0l' l'Oin. : 'le ·a e-r ay - · tried to get him, but slippery 'Gardner-Dehneba:um combination The Cesar Franck arrangement : is in the heart of .spring, The music-a bat-· George sq)lirrped loose each timn .. when- .they started a slug-it-out 1,1p :or the l50th Psalm which wi'll ~pen ' . tl'e of lTillS·l·C-l.'S ,\ll 1 ·ll·llO\. att\otl at U:nl.Ol'· alld .· What with the English Depar-t-: in the gym. ~fter Hal Wittner had ~he Glee Clu? co~cert next Fr1day \ v- - ·• • ment. \dead wood,'' \carpet-bag- taken -it on the chin whHe trying IS, in our estimatiOn, the most Ol!t- : give.s opportunity for continuous dancing. ge•·s.\ et alii, it was a very merry• to intervene. . standing number on the p10gram. .;hindig. In all sez iousness, though,· • • * Cesa-r Francie's setting of this clos- : The setting-a gnrden-prmnises to be the we muot come clean and aumH that Penalty for believing the blurbs- ing passage of the Book of Psalms · .. finest seen in recent .:veal'S with more elabor-- George was the best editor Arma: two ·h<nirs torture of sitting through Is one of the noblest of chora:l corn- Mate! hus ::;een iJ;t many a lo.ng' \Vonder Bar. I'm a real• movie hez·o., positions,. a work that in its broad ; .ute deconttions than eve1·. The favors- moon. M:1ybe it w:~s the confrub,; ~upPrannuated Jolson hanging ·on' sweep sqggests the \Halleluja'h with Bronner that did it. with a grim smile. Tear-dripping: Chorus\ from Handel's \Messiah.\ : black compacts-are attt·active enough to. * * * by 'Del Itio, pa,ssion-gasps by Kay Paean of Praise i Catch any girl's eye. And along with George go!\s P.: Francis. Whe:! * * 'rhis Psalm exhorts praises :pf N l d J . p . b W.'s shaft of wit-C(}ncoryensis. For you who would write: hear God with all the instruments and ot on y oes unwr ' mm pronnse to · e Also Conco\y \l'nzer Do th t ·r f ·· t • · ~ . ..,. · wn · e gu - your French master, De Maupas- orrns o expressiOn a mans •corn- . a gala oecasioH but the activitr will be car- ter into the sewer! Which. reminds sant: mand. Cesar Franclt has responded · me: there ought to be some way of Talent is long patience. with a paean even mm·e, exalted ; ried on throughout the l'E'St of the w.eek- waking up stuuent and fuculty to Everything you want to ex- than the creation of the psalmist, · end' with more !tUsto than all'' , .. ear since the. thf' ('Dlossal fun('tion of Milt Em:ei p1·c\ mu~t be con~idered so · a glorious outpouring of praise ~ J J in thl' \ma<'hine that is Union Col-· scored for chorus, e1·chestra, and long, and se attentively, as to · depression began. Accm·ding to unofficial lege-\ Anll If the-~e·s any whitez ena:ble you to find some aspect . organ. Although the music requires ·. reports many houses al'e eX:})ectin2.' to dance .guy! * * * of it which no one has yet seen .an intensely fervant rendition it re-o ~ and expressed. There is an un- ta:ins its firmness and majesty ; on May 12 while others are pl~inning to have Lacrosse, the game you play in explored side :to everything, be- throughout. · the rai-n With a stick and a pHI. Like a g·reat deal of Cesar ' picnics d· U·l'illg the week-eild. T.he lVf· 0''1·11te- cause we are wont never to use < About as unhinged as the Indian:o .our eyes but with the memory Franck's music, the 150th Psalm . bm1ks will present at this time \S. S. Ten- .who inv~nted it. Wyatt and his of what others before us have suggests Bach. Also like Bach, the Mohawks tearing up and down Li- thought of the things we see. .·character of the composer is as· in- acHy,\ while the Jtm·ior Week sports pro- bHlry Field in a deluge. And thr The smallest thing has some- teresting as his music. He Uved . gram is always ari attractive one. Think of gents from Williams, suckers a:ll. thing unknown in it. To de- . among his lofty ideals, spil·itually . They seemed a bit bewi'idered by.. scribe a lazing fh,e, a tree in a 'apart from other mortals, His na- . the future now··! the hammer-and-a.nvH tactics o1 plain, we must stand face to ture was of a rare and fine· type, :wyatt and Company. And scared face with that fire or that tree wholly devoted to the good and SELF .. APPOINTED CHAPEL SPEAKERR · shirtless of Nels Nitchman, poo1· till to us they are wholly unlilte beautiful. Mysticism and .great ar- :lads. any other fire or tree. Thus we ti~try characterize his music, wb!ch * * * may become original. is technically distinguis·hed by a Paul Shorey: \I preach conserva· * ·* * · frequent use of chromaticism, con- ~ism mainly because, though the · Slow notes, listless fingers in twi- flicting rhythms, anq syncopations, ordinary Main Street American doe!' light: rnodula;tions by thirds, successions Because a small minority of our under- :ll.t yet vote red, all intellectual Piano notes, lazy at sundown, of the smallest Intervals, and silence . graduates pel·sist in openly disregarding all. America reads and talks pink.\- From heavy hands through rain- that suggest mystery. \-\==================== The conscientious reviewer, a::; purged air: Music at Sunset \\ . the rules of courtesy and gentlemanly con- known by Thomas Hardy: \Writ- Intimations of eternity in music Again the chimes of Memorial TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1934 . duct in daily assembly, a belief that we all 'ing of my 'Wessex Poems,' this gen- and the death of day Chapel are pealing Union songs and tleman said that when he first 1'ead other familiar melodies acros·s the have forgotten what decency and respect .the book he thought it rather good, Breathe full and deep of the slim- campus at six o'clocl~. Although h d I . but, being determined not to be sunned world; more of us hear the music played means is fast being- attac e to t 1e entire talten in, he made a point of get· Raise eyes to the naked hills, before morning chapel, we have al- student body. tmg up to reread it on a wet morn- The pmple fringe above, ways had a pe!'sonal preference for RETURN OF FRESHMEN SPO!RTS Less than a month ago we pointed out The action taken by the Student Council that whenever students spoke in chapel, a at their meeting last week in regard to steady huhbub of voices usually aruse from freshman sports is most justified. Ever a certain section of the sophomore class. since the first action taken toward their re-. Since then it has become worse. Last Fri- moval more than a year ago we have felt day Dt·. Tidmursh's short organ recital was that the move would be injurious to the col- rendered almost unenjoyable by a strong lege. Freshman intercoU.egiate competition undertone of conversation in th.e junior sec- has a definite place in the progTam of any tion, and Saturday, Mr. Coggeshall's address college and we hope that the tax committee was drowned out for many because of similar will be able to give the athletic teams of the commotion. class of 1938 a full schedule in the six sports Something must be done to bt'ing the mentioned by the Student Council. numerous offenders to their senses, to mal\e When a college has full-time coaching them realize that they are not only spoiling staffs for all sports it is highly desirable to programs for othel's, but also ct·eu.ting an start training men for the va1·sity teams as extremely unfavorable stigma on the whole early as the freshman year. Ve1·y often the college. If the present attitude continues. methods employed by a college coaching staff it won't be long befo1·e some inclignant differ .entirely from the methods to which speal<er will be forced to t•epl'imand us in the the athletes were accustomed in their sec- middle of his talk, Ol' to break it off unfin ondary school and a year is necessary to ished. Such an occurence happened last break them into the new routine. year, causing an unpleasant feeling in us all. Athletics furnish one of the best means This habit may be corrected if some of the of creating a spirit of friendliness. It has students near the uncouth youths would been said before that a class spirit would be strong·ly suggest to them to carry on com- desirable at Union. There is no harm in munications by some noiseless methorl. making a start in the freshman year. By giving the freshmen teams of their own they immediately feel that they are an integral part of the college and begin to take a genu· ine interest in its affairs. They will root for their representatives on the football field or the basketball coul't when they are on varsity teams in later years. We hope that the tax committee will rec- ognize the fact that freshman sports are also a good means of rushing pt·eparatory school· men. By entertaining preparatory school teams at Union the fraternities are given an opp01·tunity to he their hosts for a weekend and give their guests a glimpse of -the frate!·- nity system of the college. JUNIOR PROM With the announcement of the orchestras which have been engaged for Junior Prom and the opening of the ticket sale comes the realization that the biggest social event of the year is only three and one-half weeks off. We realize the best bands in the countl'y have not been engaged for the dance, but it is certain that little will be lacking in music. The committee in charge is making every possible effort to put on th.e most successful prom that Union has ever witnessed. It is time for the students to begin thinking of the affair in a serious tone. The success of any prom is highly dependent on the finan- If the gossipers cannot cease their gab- bing, it will natm·ally become the duty of The Concordiensis to grant them due recog· nition. Perhaps we shall re::;erve a pl'ominent corner on some page for them, print the full names of the most prominent, and head it \Self-Appointed Chapel Speakers.\ NEUTRAL DANCE We are glad to see that the Neutrals have made arrangements for a college dance for Saturday night. The Concordiensis haR ad- vocated increased social activity and the Neutrals have taken it into their own hands to provide a dance for themselves and for the fraternity men. AI Warner's orchestra has always been popular at fraternity dances and can be counted upon to provide his customary high grade music Saturday night. We hope that the fraternity men will support this endea- vor. For three years the only dance whieh has been for the entire student body was the Junior Prom. It is impossible for a1iy fra- ternity to invite the entire college to its house for a dance and for that reason it is . essential that more dances for the who.le colleg.e ·be scheduled. We hope that Sopho- more Soiree will be l'einstated in the near future so that the college can once again re- sume its full social calendar. ing before breakfast, and then The sky drenched so clean a blue. the short recitals given in the found that it was worth very little.\ And swing along with all your Spring and Fall at the close of each *' * * Damon and Pythins: Sam Keah: and Dill Aydelotte. Tulloch cut the juicy slice off the fellowship racket. $25 a week for going to school. What's the catch? Only that he has to teach a little now and then Oscar Wilde: \\Vomen as some witty F1·enchman once put it, in- spire us with the desire to do mas- terpiece-s, and always prevent us ' from canying them out.\ * * * Au::;ty Fc•x, thP tmcl< of all j:.tdes, OH I HEARD This one is a variation from usual success story that goes the ·· rounds, It seems that Featherston- augh how to t~ke rate of hir-' women ... because we've been won- dering- who wnlkrd out of the Van Cruller taproom in a huff one lovely day ... leaving him I<'LAT ~-in mot·f' way~ than one-. .. * • The Albany St!eet psuedo-night club draws it's patronage from the E'lite now. We saw a gay young blade, famed for his air of general well-being ... d::~ncing with certain young ladie,; to whom we'll bet he WAS NOT properly introduced. But no mo1 e. for THE PROPRIETOR WILL NOT STAND FOR THOSE THINGS. Syracuse? * • • The College bell ringer was JILT- ED in no uncertain terms last week. Had a bad CASSon the belle of King~tun, but an insurance man sold hirn:;elf to her first. WELL, MADAM, WE TOO WILL GIVE YOU A LOVELY FREE BRUSH IF YOU'LL LET US DEMON- STRATE. \' . . Thi< h'lrl to 1Pnlt out moner or later. Shotguns in. hand, the Alpha Delts have l:lef':n trying to drive some poor cat (and her litter) flam under their porch. Well, boys we don't blame you. We can t·rrne~ber when the Betas l<ept a doghouse, hut ... * * :1< Some people we know put on the uouble hameHs recently, if rumor is to be trusted . , . R£NG AND EVERYTHING. This is for you to find out, because I'v done my best and heard that it was just a joke ... BUT IT ALWAYS STRUCK ME AS SOMETHING NOT TO FOOL WITH. * * • CORY swapped his locomotiVP for a handcar and departed in a cloud of steam for Hamilton . . . but must have felt the strain of pushing because they're still AMONG THE MISSING. Be good, George, be good. The Psi U's at Clinton may drop down here some- time and take an eye for an eye. * *' Ill The merry sound of saw and hammer will soon resound through one of the houses on the hill. Some- thing is under way in your cellar, fellows, and. we want to know about it. May we drop around for a cup of TEA some afternoon, and talk . this thing over? Y '11 d' * * • ou 1e when you REID this one. The College accompanist dumped his plano and got himself a nifty TAILCOAT ... and had it TAILORED \BY A WOMAN. Well, I still lll!e to hear the old familiar, \IT FEETS YOU LIKE DE PEP- PER ON DE VULL .... INCHWE.LL. senses open. day;. when we are more likely to J. P. R. be alone and attentive. Selling by telephone gets results. In many lines of business, salesmen are £nding they can cover more customers more often -and close more sales at lower cost-by telephone. Bell System men have worked out a number of plans for systematic market coverage by Long Distance telephone. They have also devised tele- phone plans for more efficient handling o.f pro- duction, purchasing, administration, distribution, collections. Because Bell System service is fast, economi- cal, adaptahre to specific needs, business more and more turns to the telephone. BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM WHY NOT SAY \'HELLO\ TO MOTHER A!ITD DAD!> -RATES ARE LOWEST AFTER.B:JO P, M~ ,•. ' Fi : .. ve .T.~an 'Chrysl~ To .. TI Have Five rn nis teall! vania on engage:i,r more. an' teams hE warm WI weelt.s:. ;tr better tri wielders outdoors. Captah Keats, a1 veterans !.'only~ tihf j;tl'ip ''at~: ;cohen, 1 ! George : ;leading 1 dng two: · thil. l~tte1 . wiq'.f• tean ·'in -aaufiii J)a;bly \ui 1 Keats an with Co ·fom·th si Flaccu team, is Hav!lrfoi ion~ ~!!.: against' :Jones tl ~ager, 'ar< :~three on :)lltiff COl ~racquet ,:ances th Jn . tl!• Fords.l<l gmia or score ol drubbed a score 1 Agaim Haverfo six mate doubles', Phi D Alpha 1 Phi ( Phi 8. Kappa Neutr; ChiP: 21-13, 21 Sigma ma, 21-l Delta Lamb• Nu Eps Alpha Upsllon, Tomo1 ta-Sigm Psi; Si1 Delta C Thurs ta Nu Upsilon Delta l Frida Sigma Delta C Delta Delta. Tomo Chi-Del Delta; Delta; Nu; PI Pi. Thur1 Delta; rna Cli NuEp1 Alp ha-l FridE Phi D Psi· .A Kappa Neutra CL Ther Classic at the logg. S of the \Liber1 will di tors in Hebre' club a: terest~ tend,

iday out- rof and ·aise and esty esar .the in- lved na- and ar- a Ions and the al- for the to ! ;' THE CONCORDIENSTS, TUESDAY, APRIL 17, '1934 Thr.ee FiT.. ·:v·e ~t .. enM~~kTeTnnJs ~:~!~Y 0 ~a~:~~:, ~!.~~~~ T 0 rackm 8 en Ftahvored ·roN ALEXANDER FIELD . eam o: .. :a. .e .. rip. --- ver war more By .\ · · . ~_:_,. . Built around the veterans, Cap- __ _ , . . .. • tain Foote and Bill Fraser, the var- , • GEORGE R. CORY, JR. Chrysler, l(eats. Moff~tt Sure sity lacto8:;e team will boast a for- Umon Hopes Raised by 68-58 To . Meet Pennsylvanians.' midable attack against Hobll.l't in Defeat Administered to · ' the opening game at Geneva Sat- Haverford Has Poor Record U!day. Although a definite stalting Swarthmo:ve by Lord Jeffs li·neup has not been selected, sev-' In spite of three blow outs, I managed to travel a couple of hun- dred mileil westward over the wee1c -~- e1~a1 rhen have been outstanding in Five members of the varslty ten- practice sessions. Williams, ·Elwyn, By GEORGE R. CORY, JR. end, picldng up a bit of' information nis team wi)l travel to Pennsyl- Honan, Bergman, and Maurer, be-· The fact that the Amherst track here and there. Most of my fact8 vania on Friday and Saturday to ::;ides the two mentioned will prob-· team defeated Swar·thmore 68 to 58 come frem our nl•ighbor lhmi'lton engage:i,n.two contests with Swarth- ably see action. Bergman, a soph- College. more. and Haverto,rd. Both of the:;e omore, shows a gre!l-t deal of prom- Saturday, bri'ghtens Garnet pros- teams have hac! the advantage 01 Ise with his hard playing. pects fer a victory in the season's warm weather fOI' mGN than two On the defense will be seen Op- opener Saturday. The results of ·this wee\{.s, ~n.;;l wiU. eona!3quently be i·n· .penheim, McNab; C. Smith, Pas- meet throw a little more light on better trim tlian the Garnet Fa<;quet quereHa :md Agius. Fraser will wielders who have as yet to play· play center and Ed Barna is the the situation, and the Union forces outdoors. · leading candidate for goalie. · now know most o! the Pennsylvan- Vete.ra.ns Piclmd Hobart opened' its season Satur- ians' weal1 spots. Captain Harry Chrysler, · Sam day at Penn State. Two yeavs ago, Swarthmore has three good pole Keats, and Jack Moffett, the three the last time the Garnet met the vaulters. George Mullei· did 11 feet veterans of the lfr33 team are the Genevans, the for·mer emerged vic-· 6 Inches against Amherst, and two l!\ont·y~ tin~t!J · certain\'·i>.f mal{ing ·the. torious by a 4 to 2. score, They are of his team mates took second and j;trip •'at~:,the present:. ')Ylitkng:. Jol' . favor:ed to repeat Saturday. third. Just how high Muller can go ; Cohen, promising .. 'JOPJ:,omore. and 0 is a question, but he will have to do ! George Stroebel seehls to· be the better to beat either EmOl'y Burton ;leading candidates for the l'emain- v •t . N\ F or Mal Griffing. ling two position'B. \ln tl11: event that, arsl y Ine . aces Casey Favored in 440 · th!l latter two make the trip, Cohen d c I) t • T C . W:i~l .. !'· t_'e_a;nr'. \.!P w. ith Captain c .. hi'iSier ·2n· . an C e· • .. a • } ~ n· om asey, star sprinter, is ex- ·'lri aoufi!e'S'·Whl'le· Stroebel Will prob- . . . . . V pected to run the 100, 220 and 440 · - - · •· · · · yard dashes. He won both the 220 ba.-bly 'J;le 1 Mqffett's partne1o. Chrysler,· -· -· -·-- and 440 Saturday, and was just Keats and Moffett will play singles, Came With Middlebury To- nosed out in the 100. Whitey Ross with Cohen p1obably playing th£' ~ and Don Moulton, the two Garnet ·fourth singles match for Union. morrow Doubtful; Army; quarter milers are not expected to Flaccus, a vetemn of the 1933 Game Called Oil' by Rain defeat the Swarthmore captain. team, is the number one man f01 Swarthmore looked very bad in Hav!lrforcFand. l'!3C.ent1y ~qored' the ----- . the two mHe event. The Salninas lon~ ~}gtory fqr his Alb;la Mater Due to the wet condition of the took all three places in the very against' the Navy. Memhard and field no outdoor baseball practice- poor time of 11 minutes 28 seconds. ,;Jones, the latter being player-man- was held yesterday, and it is very: Both Ed Bastedo .and Gildo Mirate tager, are number two.anG> n\lmbe~· ·dauhtful whether there will be a look like a sure first and second. :\three on the team an<t will fu1 n,ish ga:me ·here with Middlebury tomor-' Kaz SwUehed to Mile ;;atiff competition for the Garnet ,ow, although no official announce- Bill Kazmierczak, who has been ~racquet wielders .,their PE!rfo.lm-· ment has been made as yet. The running the mile instead of the two ,:ances this year taken as a criterwn. J:laltery candidates have been warm- mile event this year looks so good, Fords Drop Two mg up in the gym, but the rest of that Bill Ketz will probably take Jn . tl!eir openi;ng matches .the the squad has been idle. the former cross-country captain Fords-lost to the University of Vir- Coach Hateield is exhemely anx- out of the ·Jonger event which he gmia on March 31 by a perfect ious to have the game played for he has run for the past two years. The score of 9 to 0, while the Navy wants to see how the team will Garnet mentor has enough two mil- Tll'INGS LOO.K BAD l<'Olt Tlll!l BUFF AND BLUE Hamilton undergraduates ate net very optimistic about their spring sports teams .this season. The -track· · tea!h appean to be pretty well shot. Scobie, who ran the 100, 220 and 440 yard du>Jhcs, unci l\btlally managed to score a first or sec- ond in every one of them is ha v- ing scholastic difficulties, and his career as aa intercollegiate is defi- nitely over. Scobie also picked up a point here and there in the field events too. Tile Hamilton mentor is look- Ing high and low for a poll' vR.ulter. The latt'Bt report is that he b.as found one who ca.n do abottt nine feet. He hasn't any high jumpers, either. Friday afternoon I asked a couple of t.Jte Hamilten boys if they would tll.lu~ me up to see traclt prac- tice, but they said tht>t't'> wasn't anything to Sl't> so I didn't press them. Their lniler told me t.ha.t thl'y t•xpected· to scor·e about 18 points against us. Wt'll, it is about -till)e we ga.ve them a licking in tracli:. We have taken it on the cb.in for the past two years. BASEBALL NOT so GOOD EITHER drubbed Haverford on April 7 by show up against outside competi- ers, but he needed a good man to Talking over the coming baseball a score of 8 to 1. tion. If the game is played the be in the mile with Bob Gottschalk, season with Jim Cooper, the Buff Against both Swarthmo1·e and lineup will probably be: Fiore, sec- und Kazmierczak looks like the and Blue first baseman, I gather Haverford the Garnet will play only ond base; Captain Garrison, right man. that the Cintinental nine won't be six matches, four singles, and two field; Cadwallader, thild base; The Union team will leave early so hot this year either. Their ball doubles·. Semerad, center field; Loomis, left Friday morning for Camden, N. J., team has not started practice yet. INTRA-MURAL LEAGUES RESULTS Baseball Phi Delta Theta. 19, La.~nbda Chi Alpha 15. . Phi Gamma Delta' 19, Sigma Phi 8. ·I Kappa Sigma, Chi Psi 'i'9. Neutrals 35, Delta Chi 5. Horseshoes ' field; Griswold, pitcher; Stevenson, where it will stay for the first night ·however, so all forecasts were based catcher; Dain, short-stop, and· of the trip. On Saturday, the run- on the number of veterans avail- Clark, first base. ners will stay at Swarthmore, re- able. ARMY GAME RAINED OUT · turning Sunday. But when I m~ntioneu football, ---o the opinion seemed to be uiJani- : A steady rain from noon until 2 o'clock Saturday afternoon falling over the West Point reservation caused the cancellation of the Union-Army baseball game on ac- .:ount of wet grounds. This is the second year in succession that this scheduled game has been l'l.lined out. Alumni Lacrosse Team Defeats Williams, 4 to 1 Basketball Officials Will mous that Hamilton will have an- other good eleven next fall. There Hold Meeting Tomorrow wm be· a veteran ror almost every position, with plenty of reserve· ma- ·terial available. They expect to talre There will be a meeting Clf the the Garnet into camp again in the Adirondack Board of Basketball fall, but Union prospects are not so Officials tomorrow afternoon in the bad either. Union College Gymnasium. This group is on the charte-r board of the national organization and meets annually to vote on the proposed changes in the basketball rules for the following year; and go on re- cord as approving or disapproving HE GAVE US THE IDEA Chi Psi defeated Theta Delta Chi, Playing in a driving rain, the them. 21-1.3, 21-12. . ..,._ -Mohawk lacrosse' club, composed The Adirondack Board of Basket- Now t11at we are going to g('t some more football coaclJing, I don't mind· telling who gavt> us the idea of a. line coach. It was Doc Clowe, \I have bel'n loolt- lng out of ·bhis window f'()r ov('r twenty years,\ he told rot> on£> afternoon. \And I am sure that wha.t the team needs is a liuP coach.\ Of course Doc wasn't .the only perSQoD who had this Idea, but what he says about the athletic situation at Union Is very ofren iiltely to be trite-. Sigma Ch1 defeated Kappa S1, ·mainly of former Union stars, se-. ball Officials is composed of eighty- rna, 21-10, y-21, 21-18.. cured a 4 to 1 victory in a practice five members who are either bas- Delta Ph1-~elta Chi <postpo1ledl. .. game Saturday afternoon against ketball coaches or are officials at Lamb~a Clu Alpha defeated Theta the Williams College squad. Both games. Kenneth .DuBois, director Nu Epstlon •. 21-12, 21-12, teams missed several opportunities of athletics at Albany High School Alpha Phi Delta. defeated Delta to score, especially in the first half, succeeded Prof. J. Harold Wittner . Upsilon, 2~-5 •. 21~12. because of the poor condition of the of Union College this year as Pl'es- · ~-.,.o ~-- ground. By the second half, how- ident of the organization. ever, the players displayed a IS HE! ANOTHER TILDEN?' Union Is Represented At SCHEDULE. Baseball:... Tomorr.ow Noon-Phi Delta T);I~­ ta-Slgma 'Chi; T.heta Delta Chi~Chi Psi; Sigma Phi-Alpha Delta Phi; Delta Chi-Phi Sigma Delta. Thursday Noon -Kappa Nu-The- ta Nu Epsilon; Kappa Alpha-Psi Upsilon; ~eta Theta Pi-Delta Phi; Delta Upsilon-Alpha Phi DPita. Friday Noon-Lam'6da Clli Alpha- Sigma Ch1.;. Kappa Sigma-Theta Delta Chi; Phi Oa$ma Delta-Alpha Delta Phi;, Nf)ut~;ais-Phi , 1 Sigma Delta. - Horseshoes Tomorrow Noon--Theta. Delta Chi-Delta Phi; Delta Chi-Alpha Phi Delta; Delta Upsilon-Phi Sigma Delta; Lambda Chi Alpha-Kappa Nu; Phi Gamma Delta-Beta T~~ta . smoother type of lacrosse. \The first period closed with a scoreless tie. Richmond of Williams drew first blood in the second per- · iod, with Abe Livingston tying the score almost immediately after- ward. Ken Dorn followed up with another to g.ive the Alumni a 2 to1 lead at the close of the half. Dorn accounted for all the scoring in the second half, tallying in the early part of the third period and again in the middle of the last quarter. The Mohawk team lined up with Diil, goal; Engel, point; Unterfort, -cover point; Hagar, first defense; Swick, second defense; Wyatt, cen- ter; Murray, first attaclt; Dorn, second attaclr; Livingston, in home; Nitchman, out home, Saturday the Alumni will meet Colgate at 3 p. m. on the Library field. Colgate lost its opening game last Saturday to Springfield College, Model League Assembly <Continued from Page 1) points in the final report. Flinn, who served on the Treaty Revision Committee due to the absence of Waldron, supported ·a strong revi· sionist policy. Rutgers Wins Cup The oup for the most distinguish- ed work of a single delegation was awarded to Rutgers University, representing Poland. Last year Union had the distinction of being the first to win the cup when she represented Japan at the Lehigh University assembly. Austin Fox, who according to the local press is a burly football cap- · tain, and spends his spa1·e time breaking up championship wrest- ling matches, is seen up in the gym every day wielding a tennis racket. Bill Bennett tells me that he has a vicious forehand, bUt that his back· hand is a \·little weak.\ If he can still show the speed that he showed when he picked up a Williams fum- ble and ran down to the goal line two years ago, he 'won't nel'd any backhand. ---·0·--- STUDENT COUNCil. NOTICE A sp~cial meeting of tl~e Student Counc,! wiH be held Wednesda) night at 7:30 in the Student Counci office, StlJdent Body MePtings for next year will be discussed. JUNIOR AND SENIOR ELECTIV·ES Division of Language and Literature FII~LD OF ANCIENT CLASSICS Latin 2 <Roman Law)-Professor G. D. Kellogg Latin 22 <Lucretlusl-Professor G. D. Kellog-g Greek 13 <HhltOI'Y of Greek Litemture) -·Pwfeso;or H. C. Coffin HELD OF Kl\GLISil LANGUAGE AND U'fERATURE Englio;h 20 !English P£;elry)--Mr. P. A. Smith Eil;;l-h;h 21 IArh'frneeu Composition n (for juniors only) Pwf~Rsor D. VanAvery English 23 i Chaueer)- Professor J. S. Green, Jr. Eng!i:lh 25 1 Mode! n Drama) --Pl'ofessor B. M. Wainger English 31 <Advanced C0mposition Ill (for seniol\H on.Jyl - Pwfes- ~>Or R. M. Henick FIEI.D OF MODI~l{N LANGUAGES AND LITERATUR!ii German 21 (Juni<:~I)- Mr. K. von Forstmeyer German 31 !Scniud P1·ufessor F, C. Bat nl'>~ F1ench 21 <Junior> ·Mt'. A. P. Zabuesnic French 31 <Seniot·) Profes~ot· F. Jagu Spanish 1 <Elementary> -Pr<Jfessor F. Jagu Division of Social Studies SS 20 <Nineteenth Century Em·ope)- Mr. P. E. Mosely SS 21 <Europe Since 1914)-- Mr. P. E. Mosely SS 26 <The Far East>--Pr·ofessor W. L. Godshall .SS 27 1 Eighteenth and Nineteenth Century England) -Professor H. M. Smyth SS 28 \Btitish & AmPl'ican Constitutional Dewlopment>-Profes- sor A. G. Dewey SS 32 <Social and Intellectual History of the Uniteli States) Pro- fessor F. L. Bronner SS 33 <Hi8tory of the United States since 1865) Professor F. L. B1·onner SS 37 <The Labor Movement)-- Professor E. E. Cummins SS 38 <Corporate Orga-nization of Society) -Professor E. E. Cum- mins SS 39 <Financial Organization of Society)- Professor W. W. Ben- nett SS 41 1Govmnment and Business: The Problem of Public Control) --Profes:lor W. W. Bennett SS 46 <Political Parties and Public Opinion>-Professor A. G. Dewey SS 47 <International Organization)-Professor W. L. Godshall SS 48 <Local Government) Pt'ofessur W. L. Godshall SS 50 'ISocial and Political Philosophy) ·-Professor H. A. Lanabee SS 51 1 Contemp01 ary PhiloHophical Problems) --P1·ofeo,;or P. Stan- ley SS 55 \Compa1utivc Religion) --Professor H. A. Lunabee SS 56 <The Biblel-Mr. H. L. Achilles Division of 1.\lathematics and Scienct! FJEI.D OF BIOLOGY Biology 12 <Botany)-Professor E. E. JJale Biology 21 <Embryology and Histology)·-·Mt·. I. B. Hansen Biology 22 <General Physiology)-Professor J. W. Mavor Biology 23 <Nervous S:ystem and Sense Organs) --Professor Clark FIELD OF CHEMISTRY L. B. Chemistry 12 <Organic) -Professor F. C. Schmidt Chemistry 22 <Physical) --Professor E. K. Bacon FIELD OF GEOLOGY Geology 12 !Geology and Physiography of North J1essor E. S. C. Smith Amedca)-Pro- GE!oiog~· 22 <Seminar)-Professor E. S.C. Smith FIELD OF 1\'IATHEMATICS Mathematics 21 1 Advanced Calcullltl and DiffHential Equations)- Professor D. S. Morse Mathematics 22 \Differentiai and Integral Calculus)-Professor 0. J. Farre11 Mathematics 24 <Geometryl-Professor F. J. H. Burkett Mathematics 31 iAd'Vanced Calculus> -Professor A. D. Snyder FIELD OF PHYSICS Physics 21 <Heat, Electricity and Magnetism)-Professor V. R<Jjansky Physics 23 i Matter and Radiation) -Professor P. I. Wold Physics 31 <Vibratory Motion, Sound and Light)-Professor P. I. Wold and Professor F. J. Studer Physics 33 <Vacuum Tubes-Professor P. I. Wold and Professor F. J. Studer FIEI.D OF PSYCHOLOGY *Psychology 2 1 Elementary and Educational) -Professor F. C. Chillrud *Psychology 3 <History of Education and Principles of Educa- tion>-Professor .!<~. C. Chillrud Psychology 11 <Abnormal Psychology and Personality) ·-Pr·ofesaor E. M:. Ligon P<~ychology 12 <Statistical Methods)-· Professor F. C. Chilhud Psychology 21 <Advanced Psychology) Professor J. L. March •Psychology 22 (.Methods of Teaching) -Professor F. C. Chillrud Psychology 23 <Psychological Methods) Professor E. M. Ligon • Teaching Courses A.RT AND MU~IC History of Art ·Professor J. S. Green, Jr. Appreciation of Music--Mr. E. A. Tidmarsh ANY COURSE NOT LISTED ABOVE WILL BE CONSIDERED AN UNDER-CLASS COURSE Pi. . Tbursday Noon-Delta Phi-Alpha Delta; Delta Chi-Delta Upsilon; Sig- ma Chi-'Eheta Nu Epsilon; Th.eta Nu Epsi)on-Kappa Nu; Lambda Chi 7 to 0. Frosh Stickmen Round Into .Form for Opening· Contest The Union Delegation had the opportunity some week ago to se- cure first hand information when they attended a dinner given them by the Hon. Mr. DeGika, Consul- General for the Hungarian Gpvern- ment in New York. Likewise they were instructed on certain poin.ts by Dr. Deak, Interna:tlonal Lawyer· and one of the Hungarian delegates to the London Economle Confer- ence. A Better Alpha-Phi .Gamma Delta. .. Friday Noon-Theta Deita .Chi: Phi Delta Theta;. Delta. Chi-Chi After about five weeks Clf prac- Psi·, Alpha Phi Delta-Phi Sigma; tice, the fr9sh lacrosse team is fin- Kappa Si'gma~Lainbda Chi Alpha;. ally rounding into playing shape. Neutrals-Sigma Chi. Macinnes, MacMurray, Vandecar, •· .:r 0 · Ramey, Fraser, and J. Smith are CLASSICAL CLUB MEETS battling for attack positions. Knox There will be a meeting of the Classical Club at 8 o'clock tonight at the home of Dr. George D. Kel- logg. Sidney D. Markman, president of the club will read a paper called \Liberty in Religion.\ This paper will discuss some funda;mentaL.fac- tors in both the ancient. Greek and Hebrew religions. Members of the club and all others who may be in- terest(l.~Lare cordially. invited to at• tend, and Marsella are the leading can- didates for center. Coach F1·ed Wyatt will chose his defense ml!n from Faelton, Fenton, Paton, Potts. Liffiton and Kennelly. Either H8 ·- ris or Tompkins will be goalie. The frosh season opens April ~ when the yearlings engage Manha•· • set High Schooi: on the Gradua ...... Council field. J, G. Stranahan '& member of the Union 1929 Nations' Championship team, is coach of th ·Long Islanders. THE NEW DENTISTRY A Phase of Preventive Medicine Colle~e Men find in it unusual opportunities £or a career THE Harvard University Dental Scb.ool offers a competent course of preparation for tb.e dental profession. A \CLAss A\ ·ScHOOL Write for catalogue .LeroY M. 8. Minor, D.M.D .. M.D., Dou -Dept.27,.18U Longwcod An., Boat•••· Mut, You Can g.et it Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dol- lars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure better pos- ition and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THE.M. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. (Teach.ers address Dept. T. All others address Dept. S.) Continental Teachers Agency. Inc. 1812 Downing St. Denver, Colo •. Covers the ENTIRE United States School Officials I You may wire us your vacancies at c.ur exp~nse, if speed is urgent. You will receiv'e complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 36 hours. . . .. \ \C'mout Somet1me AND sEE ouR MooEL oAtRY. FARM Ar ouANEseuRs PINE GROVE DAIRY TELEPHONE 4-7741 WE CORDIALLY INVITE OUR CtJSTOMERS AND THEIR FRmNDS TO DRIVE OUT AND SEE OUR FARM WHERE WE PEODUGE 011R OWN GRADE 'A' MILK

I·, ·ilt' Professors Choose 1 () ~~noks :Each For TilE CO!\COilDIE~~~S. Tl.'ESI>AY, APll IL 17, Hl31 l!\\\'n lh\l~·andt;. F .. wa,z~n·<L'nion Alun1nus and TntsteeiSt d t E F d I l·.io·ll~o·nr, .. 1 AL!il('ultul\ ,,, h1s 1 • • . : u en xposes rau s 1 :1: ·r t \\\ h.\\ I\ ·.nll' l·t'~t of h1s li~t 1 .:\om mated Hal'\'al'd 0\'el'St.'t'l' Of Slot Machine Rackets 1 llH'!lldt•d ~~tnnv l<:llllll'l s(\unl<.book. 1 MIDDLESEX NOTES :'ho, t·,., t '''\' :1 [lll·t 1 unoll\', ::'\liakt·~- --- ·- - --- , In tltt· howling mubt of faculty bat· Shl '\ .. • 1·•·:·1 11· ' \ \',\ 1<-. Sarnut•l p,.'l '\\' Dim\', 1 Tlw Hun. Hobt•l 1 l'o1 t.t' 1 1'.-t t !.PI- 1 C'mtt'i llllt•d f1um l'.tg•· 1 1 1 tlt·~. - \f •, l: ·• 1 • all·; ;:-; 11lll\ a.n. Opt'!;,,..;, I.;:ntlt ' ,on, of G.tn hun, N. Y .. who b now b<'tory 11 h H•t to lt•t.am thlt t \ ·li \'1' , Aud , tudt•nl ~l'l a.t-<'hings a bout st>tli- n~h~ert I ~;land foz·t to reflect that we might have a few sunny days this ~pring, when it won't rain or snow, and that the campus which -ha~ been green be!'OJ P will be g-reen again despite thP lacro~:;e t~aru and :;tray autos ( •ITt>;, ( l.t .... -.il'\· :-;hakt·..,aJt•;ue, 1::11 1 ,· \it' :-;till l'opttl:tr hn Vl;11 tHlllt>d :\i.tn',.; l.i ll!'m~ ( )ne lndudt•s ( 'ook I :ouk 1! ... r'--llll· .. \(;Jn\\th llf thl' StJ!l,\ 1 a. tlU..,ttlt• ot tlHl colll'gt·. b antnng. pt>tl't·nt uf lht> ('tJin:-o iH~PttPd ~in it. i ttou~ U.l'ts, I··· .. _:, t',l:!idl'!t• Huvl<' and tht• thirt.t·t•n llll'n nonun.tt'<'<l tot t1w b ' - , ut \'<'IY !t•W ll'lllllll1 1111~ way !'or I 1 \\'hat 1s a ~l'Li1tious :·t<'tl, I,,\···· ' I:adl<l Enl'\'t'illjll'dla. TlH·' pusrtwn or c_ )\'PlSPl'l or Hat\':-tld I \ 11 I · I , ong ' ~rna t t'VIt't' lumwn :os a, 'I'll•' \ 11 - 1 1 'J 1 _, 1..~: t.,,[, 111 Lai!aLt·•· t'XjJ[ainl'd l'nivt•tslty. Judgt· l'altt•rcon r;-; a .. .·p rng a '\ll t <'as anu ··~tll 1 l i.-; I>bPt•d at v:tt iou~ pd.tlt~ 1 \>ll.· (,. e,:t'l Ill (Oll('h Wl\h till• Wo!ld, ,/lH[t--:l' Ill \Ill' (', S. fll~tlil'l C'ul!lt 1 [ <'!<'', f th l 1 . ,._, un t h• t \\!l·PP lt:el,:-;, fot in~tanct• l>Il ~~ 1 rl\ f , I · ., .·1 t. , n 1!y 1nan ua 1 tJt' :;lup lJ ui.l ding 1 lll t' :--nut. lt'l n l 1~t 1 u·t of .~ t'\V ·h .. t 1 . v:hieh 111 t·Vt•nt.~ t h~t t l'h;\ 1 ~a·tt·t : 1lt' t·t oclulls t. f'Illand that :Lt_:!;t do fol tht> :-.<..t.!lH' ptl!!JU~l'. I Yorlc fllltll t>V~'I }(•gbtl•JJil;_.;. ThP wav Lol got'ta l>t> lllyal: Bi.h!t• llt•ad ... J.i,t I At'P<lldin!' to tilt> a.nrwuncPlllPilt dt•tf'J't this to to Walch !or lmillll'- Thl' unfortunatt• PI1H'lgt'n<'P f1 om l!a1 \'a 1 d tlw t hllt.t't'n ,., nt!1- 1 Tin• H1blt· :tnd ~~boo!< of l'lllllllH>n d·th•-- n\n-Iin:ttt'd for Ovt'l\t't'l-~ \V\ll' tng \VIH·n tht• lt.·Pl:--r. :-.top . .l\nuthPI l hl~ll {.-;, running ovel' it; That tht> brook will smt>ll as it has poli- I alway\' tiUlel t, And that Juelttlon's Gardt>n iB a you li vt-z·y nice place to study in of a spz·mg morning. or !''·•>··• h·ado·d tht· 11<'1 ,f 11 1 <;,., 11 g<': ,pJt•t't'Pd fzum !7-! n·tmt•, ·th·tt w;·rt> ·m;·thud\ \'l\'''dlllg up lht• l'io<'k\ ·ThP :\dway~ C'oming- on ot' c>xnnHl, APronling to my two-cent calPn- \·,1i1·cl l.itl'l'<ll.lii'P l'id,t•d !'at'' h•l: •. .;~. l'lofo·~~\r uf La,tin. Ht·l,ugg<':-t.<•tl by 133 H:ll\\t.ttll:lub~ 43 1\\lwn you pull tht· bandit• on u Tt•Imp:l[·H'lstlut>, t!ar,themoon,whlchhasaneyefol' .t:~,. .-!J,,,,. ll••Inor. \'it~tl. tlw :\lo•· I ,. 111 ,~~''· :-rx prnf~,,i;>n:ll ~•:t;llol • m:tP1llnP Y<III du Hot sp!ll till• l<'<'b :l:hP l<nowiNl,;P aH fo1·gottPn, I PVPt·ything, which sees all but tells l-l.'iHllla•tlt':ll !·:,,Ito to ({~:ad •:r!ati<~rt.· .. r :\lait'll\ ,\UI<'liUs. alumni ussol'iation:c., and ::: 119 nolll-''~llt'<'lly, __ lHll Ill.<'tvly WllHl up '':}Ill' gnntl!ng on ~wt>nty nights. 'lnothrng, shall not. shine on Pl'Oln · \.1 :ol;o ~l><'.ll•· t'h .. lhfuld boJOk of int•nt glat!uatl',., I , <iockW<lik .. rnt•l'h.tnls!ll w1lll'h Jut•:. I rh .. path,.; still m-uddy; week-end. Stll'h th1ngs <'OU!d bear- I·.r: .. li-li \'•·I ,,._ I ;lhbon·, \Dl't'illlt' Aftt·r his graduation f ' l' lht• Wol k. I hu:- JH> Ina.ttt•J how lialll Tho• <'ha·dng ar·••Hfl<l to ,.;pp who's ranged. I ' ,, \.·· I , t. •, ' .. 1 }' J' · 1 1, 1, .., f( ~ll ruon vuu Jt>ll{ tht• ll'Vt•t thP dt·\'H't' 111t1• · 1111 4 : 1 • 11 t t.lt· .. ornan · .. rnpitt•, .. C ul·lt·gP, JtlllgP Pattf'l·~un attt~ndPd ·. . . . .... . ~ ·l I . . .. ~ ~ ~ toni t'IHntgh to pay yuu IllOnPy ,. J;.d,In,,n ('Jll'\''· and a h:-tndbti\J[( l!:tr\':ud'~ Law l'khool. graduating, at:\ '\~\Ltnl ·I.\\. 'IHI<.l,l!l:., !hi.' to putll'h a tinw-l'lock; 'It•· \I I\ :to'!tl'al In•·.-ltanll'o <'lllll l.tudt·, In HJL:>. Ht• wa,; it\l'ald\ \lt~t' 'r\ 'Uh do\1111 tho .!lllOIIllt !'··ud ,\JI tit•• '\ill and t'ntls tll lw luekt>tl ThP craclr for the day- A rolling ·: .~ · ·I 1 n ,,.. ~ t; 1 t·t·n. .l\ ~ .... 1:-- t :ln t Pt o Pti thl• 1 1 1 :--t in\ ui:--·}u•d St·t \' H'l' Ct o:--·, · 0 · '.ll :-.o:u _, 11 Il \IHI\\ 11 tl·',t.\' Ill. ( nut- 1 a way lwf( 11 p J unP; ~ tonP ga thPrs I emorsP. I~·' '.I ! i ·:' .... ,,,,,,J, 1 '\ \ 1 •·f l•:n.:lt,h. oatd tha.t ht· for gallannv ln action in HJIX h~lal.w;~\ ufltlwst• audl~,;h,·l 1 lll<'th In tlti:· howling midst, it is a <·om-' p w , 1 , 1 • · ' 1 · • ; ·- · 1 • ' : - r 1 · .... ,\-onld Ltl\t· 1 it nrwr ·=- 1 I tall and< >dy~- · ~ 0 • u ~ \'·1 IHd \.t> ~~ tn:tc u nP t 1at. 11 · ~·:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;';;;;;;' ;,;;;;;;;~ · '· '·, \ 111 ' ··~. llo-r .. .t .. rll,· l!i,;t.<,ll~·. ,l'htu' ',FElL\ ('HJ<~('IiS,' v,..-_.I'I•,'(''('L,'[) lt•gulal'ly playt•d \''\ry d:ty, may bt•: - ;. n_ 1 .·,,.j, 1 •Jal•':...lit' .... , :\l_t~llt:ugtH· :-; I· .. ~~a\•.-;, .. .... 1' 4 '- J:' t·ountl·d on t11 lit·il\\t'J nut uVt>l l\\ll' R Q S E N D A l E . 'It • '' ·' . ...:.:t:d;,t ·fl(· ;,r ~. tht· OXft•l d l!uuk .of': <'<lins .JtUlll.illv. 1-:n_:t-!t y,: ,._ \t;u1ll\1'1 ·- T 1 avt·1~' ; SludPul,; lllhlN thl' F [•' 1 , ·\ Y<nl Wlllllrin't lhml; of ~!\\Ill~ '.'.' ,. • t I t • t !' I'' • 1 f f D · ... 1. ... • t\\'l'llty~tt)·ullt' uJd:-. (Jll tht:• t'u:;.~ llf a • !' \'''\ 1 Y :-->\YJ! • ,,,-.\\t·.· ~ ' 41 ·~·. 0 . 1 ,,-will ptob!Jhl'-' hP Jl:tid this '-\'t•r•k, an- 1 , l 1 11 I i r 1 ! :-; t ·] It[ ' coin. yd that i' jtL\t wh:tt ~~~~~ ofto·L: . ':' .~ . I' I l:...tl 1, :tnt . ;t.n. !Lyana :\' ... l. P j nounC'e-d ~Ib:-~ F'ranci~ Tnt\·is yP:-.Ll'r- do \VhPn yon play a ~lot rn:u·htnP !':~· ·~ ~ lch.y. ThP pa.yr olb hnl'l' \Oilt' to AI- 'rl 1 1 ' ·''' .: ' \'\ 1 ' r \ 1 Lihr:nian l'it•l<s J)id·ionary bany und clwl'l(,; will bt:-' Wlitlt•n in li'Y pay t \' !tg lh and g;\ bill 0 ,,, T •. ~·: .. ,!. t· , 11 f'VPI'Y lcH·ntiun \\'ht>tP you tnay tit.u.l ·'''\'' ,_~ .,,. ,,,,,.\ .1-tlll•- l~lt·w_~tPJ tht•t•ull\'-'\lillln-.tlw State Conttlll!Pr's Dffi<'<' \\ tlwm, ant! t'his \only thl' mini- ,1 ,, \ , , ,,. _, 'Llll. \''\ ptll tl:o• l~lhlt• nr tht> lw:HI! ~\on as pos;;Ible. rnttm. Oftpn tllP lowiv ni<'kt•l m:t ' ·,' ,,_ • .t· lf!,,• li·T' Itt :td•iititlll ht> \VantP.d· o cllint• tal-:t·~ in :c\ !lltl<~·h . 1 :-. Sltlilll(l ''.'r. l'lllLII•'!t·, l.tl'\'· ~ll:tli,.~pl':tr<', Hob-' Y ('ABI:-.i]•;T !\'I.KE'l'l:-.l<l in a W<'<·lc r•,•r hi!]\ ynu'Jt' C'<lll .1: ..... n l'lll--t•t·, tht· Hun1t> Hook {lf An irnpo:tant nn•<·ting of thP Y. VllH't•d th·1t von f':tn't \VJn, bu1 r! . '.• \o·r,•·. 1~\'\\'l'll'~ \Lit'P of Sn.llllll'l :\1. C. A. C':tbinPt will !Jp hPhl tnmol'· nnl r<•mPmhri· th:ll \1>11 '\'' ,·,ntJiil .L.hn ... nn. EtJIPt:--tlll·s 1<:~:-;ay:..;, liornl~l. Hl'vV aftPI·nonn at 2·30 in Hilliuwn i nt'n~ ditt'C\'tly t.n a fun.l \VhH\h ··IIJI .:, i.,.,. ,. !···: 1 t•· \J:tl\·'n :'\1~h1. .... and au ahrtdgpd ![all. ~on1inatron~ for nPxt ~t·:l'l 'port',.; a l.!,Jt>:lt ptlllll•n ,,r tlt,• \.11 \' \ :'\'• 1wf:Ptl'tl \' \\'ill bP <'on~hlPtt•(i, :-t.nd Llt'l\t.>tt•t•J ing Ill )lllll t'Jiy. I' r •! '\ Tht• ol .. jo'!'\ o! t:ht• Jll't'St'll( \lll'H'\ ;,, •• \ '\i 'J ., ·' j, 1-n L;'t•t ~otirnilar n~ts of h~n hool\~ i l ! • .\·' lrnr11 at lt•n>.,t ont• ami [IO,,(h!y twu FLOWER SHOP Schenectady's Telegraphic FloriBt Flowers 0 f Quality 124 ,J a:v Street Phone 4-0MO Opp. CIQ' lldl THE PRESS \:, .\ IJ ~· .Jt,,. I. ·t 1 1 ! ·~~· pr·ufth .. ..,or~ in PU<'h dPp:.trftnfl'nt in 1\ • t' 1 ht> l'ul!t·~ \· Uuring t:ht• l'!'St of t-his \'\\\'\'t' ,. 1 al'iou-. t11aelwrs will hP a..,[<~·tl a.hout tllt'i.t· l'hoi<'t' of' tt>n HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING CAZETTE PRINTERS (l'j I,. ,. ! ~r-•,. !. ,[., 1'·,1·- ,,,. \' huul,-.: tht> t\l'>. willlH• puhlishPII 4 N. Y. C. Arcade 1 l• l:·:,·r .. rl - in Tht· ('ou,·ur·dh .. n!>,i~. .\'\'·:::::::::;::::::::=::=:;::;:::::::m::::mmm::mm:m::::::m:m::m:m::m::::m::;;;;:;m::::m::mmmm;;mm:iii an an KED Luckies are p/1- wa:ts kind to your throat / ·' Luckies are always in all-ways kind to your throat. For every Lucky is made of the choicest of ripe, mellow Turkish and domestic tobaccos-and only the clean center leaves-they taste better.Then,\lt's toasted\-for throat protection. And every Lucky is \It's toasted\ v' Luckies are all-ways kind to your throat Only the Center Leaves- these are the Mildest Leaves l'o~l n,;l.t. 1~.1. 111e Amerlcllll Tobacw Comp1UJ7, made so round, so firm, so fully packed-no loose ends. That's why Luckies \keep in condition\ -do not have that obiectionable tendency to dry out, an important point to every smoker. Luckies ore always in <:!!.-~ kind to your throat. NOT the top leaves-they•re uncler• -developed-they are harsh I They taste better NOT the bottom leaves-the,v 're inferior -in fJUa/itJ-coarse and sancl.)ll .... ~~~--· I • Lesl Fla: Flatte1 Ed1 In A ..____ __ VoL LV Lon~ And l Educ: Recogni1 For I Conde Test f Says Qu Fail \The cl; the birth] tomb,\ de• speaking ll£Sti::ly, his eutliel went on t higher ed be obtain• speech fol Canno1 \It is it -while \ any defin· about th~e A college great pot man, but proper Ri! passage o talks as t ingtl or cl \Each< how lTnic he run. tion of tl mete div ith•as enl] possibilit~ t:m in~tit ThNe wil und(lt·gra( tuo ~evert briefly a gaineLI ht yPatB. \ThP pl college. l'iculum t the instr- of tt>achir !Pge in:-'tt c>d, an.! per::<onalit matter. that \the thosP who might fat than lisle machine. should nc l!la::JB uf might l':t in twent~ often. no· thP pa.g<' those bt>f passing Pither. VIVO[ fl'Ol dull anti mg inf01 to death. 'l'Psts, Q \Test~ mentally ier. A r mtellect. course::;, , noying d ants on 1 divided, dent has schedule lmpul~t>s. bore. It izes the I and scier turn..; tht ed preci if he rna four yea number' lastic ret face the The clas birthplac ''Rober 'college al'e polis med.' V it's wort! \Lest cational an attaci to correc five wee time to J ians in These m can. WJ Colli \And can on!~ having c tunlties as great (C

... Fo.ur THE CONCORDIEJNSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1934 Professo S Choose \Human Body\ and G. F. Warren's. l_fnion Alumnus RJld Trustee Student. .Exposes Frau.ds M•I•DDLE'S'E. X •N·OT· ES fort to· l'e~lect tpat we might · , f . \Elements of Agr·iculture\ as his · have a few sUnny days this 10 B k E h F first two books. The rest of his list, Nominated Harvard Overseer ·Of Slot Machine Rack.ets spring, when it won't rain or : · . ()0. 8 ; · ac . · 0. f ·included Fanny Farmer's Cookbook, ~mow, a.· nd t\at the ·c. a. m. pus 'lJI' Shorter Oxford Dictionar•y, Sha·kes- -~- --- In the howling midst of faculty bat- h' h h b., b D I l d S u w rc a13 · een green efore .osert 8 an tay peare's Worl{s, Samuel Pepys Diary, The Hon, Robert Porter Patter- (Continued from Page 1> es, wlll be .green agajn despite the 1C · · ·. 1 Gilbert and Sullivan: Operas, Knut son, of Gan:lson, N.Y., w~o is now: factory it is set to retain t4irty-five :And stude!lt scratchings <tbout sedi- lacrosse team and stray autos --· -- Hamsun's \Gr.owth of the Soil,\ a trus_tee of the coll~ge, IS among percent of the coins inserted in it, tious acts, running over it; G I ( 'I . ~h l Foster's Complete Hoyle and the. t~urteen men non:unated for the but very few 1 emain this way for <Wha.t iS a seditious: actl', T.hat the br·ook w· 1 · 11 . sme'll as· It has l'ef.' { ~lSSICS, ., a \.espeare, D 1 • R d' E 1 d' Th poSJbon of Overseer of Harvard ra {e s · a 10 ncyc ope Ia. · e . . . long. A small device known as a The yelling about ideals and poli-. always smelt, · · Bible Are SHU Poptllar for last book, Dr. Lar.rabee explained· Umvers.Jty .. Judge Pat.ter?on IS a. ·•stop\ is placed at various points· cies, ·was to get in touch wjth tl~e world,, Judge m the U. S .. DJ~tr1ct Cburt' on the three reels,. for instance on a And that Jacksoil'S G!trde~ is a Marooned Man's Libt3J'Y or. a handy manual of ship building for. the southern d1stnct of New: bar, which prevents that character The ferocious demand that you very nice place to stud·y in of m1ght do for the same purpose. Yoil{, . . from ever registering. The way tt> ·gotta be loyali a spring morning. Y nried Literature Pici<Nl for Hypothetical Exile to Read By FHED I•'ELDMAN C'oll<'ge pmfessors ~till like the Bi.ble, Honwr, Virgil and Rhakes- peal·e, but most of them would want to take along Gulliver's Trav- Pls Ot' nubitumn CI USOP, and ·'ome o'f thl'm would likP to bt ing a cook bnok and radio gUide when they go to a dP~l'l t island. The qiiPstion, \What ten books would you talie with you if you WPI'e to bP Px:iled to a deseJt is- land?\ was as !ted of a number of Union pro.fessor:s. To thi,; date four of tht•m submitted lists of the books thPV would· ehoosP. and the re,;ults l cveal :<ome of the lwb!Jie\ the Hl'hoolmastPJ's indulgl' in out of !'lass. l><';JUrt Fl'om Classics s .. m·e of U.ll' dPJXlt t llll's f.t om the• l'!us:sks that made their way into the well-read collPge pmfessor'\ Hobinsun C1 usot• library included Clendt•ning's \Human Body,\ \Ara- bian Nights,\ \A Handbook of Prac· tieal 1\.lt•ehanic!<,\ Gilber·t and Sulli- van',; Operas and Fanny Farmer's Cookbook. Bible Heads List Accordmg to the a:~nounceme~t detect this to to watch for bonne~ The unfortunate emergence of The Bible and a boo!{ of common. from Harya:rd the thirteen candl- ing when the reels stop. Another· marks, dates nommated. for Oven;een:; were, method is \speeding up the. clock.\ The always coming on of exams, prayer headed the list of Dr. Geo~ge selected from 174 names that wet'e. When. you pull the handle on a Term papers due, 0. Kellogg, Professor of Latin. He , s.uggested '?Y 133 Har'.'ard clubs, 43~ machine you do not spin the reels The ki1owledge all forgotten, Mso chose Homer, Virgil,. the Me· 'Classe~, s1x. J?I·ofessmnal school ,directly, but merely wind up a The grinding on sweaty nights, ditations of Marcus Aurelius., ~lumm assocratJOns, and 209 prom- cloe'kwork mechanism which does The paths sHU muddy.; Shakespeare, the Oxf0rd book of, ment graduates, . . · the work. Thus no matter hoW liard • • • According to my two-cent calen- dar, the moon, which has .an eye for ever;Ything, which sees· all but tells . nothing, S·hall not shine on Prom week-end, Such things could be ar- ranged. English Verse, Gibbon's \Decline After his ·graduation frop~ Umon you jerk the lever the device runs The chasing around to see who's and Fall of the Roman Empire,\ College, , Judge Patterson atten?ed at a constant speed. Increasing this fool enough to pay you money. Robinson 'Crusoe, and a handbook Harvard s t:aw School, graduatmg .. sp· eed cuts down the amount paid. to punch a time-clock; of practical mechanics. . cum laude, 111 1915. He was award- ff f ., k . . . C All the odds and ends to be tucked: The oracle for the day-A rolllng Jume<J S. Green, Assistant Pro-. ed the Distinguished Service Cross: 0 • • ~r som. un nown Jeason. om- ,away before June; stone gathers remorse. fessor of English, said tha;t he• for gallantry in action in 1918. bmatl~ns ofthese and ~ther met~~ In this howling midst, it is a com- P.•W. would take Homer's Iliad and Odys- o ods Will make a mach me that, if -::;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;m~iiii;;;;;f; He.y, Herodotus' ~istm·y, Plato' FERA CHECKS EXPECTEO regularly played e_very day, m~y be li Dialogues, Montatgne's •Essays, . co!lnted on to deliver not over two R 0 S EN [) A L 'E Shakespeare, the Oxford Book of --- . coms annually., . . . . . FLOWER English Verse, \Gulliver's Travels\ Students under the F. E. R. A.. You wouldnt thmk of f5Wmg by Swift, Boswell's \Life of Dr. , tw.enty-to-op.e _od?s on the toss of a Johnson,\ and Santayana's \Little wtll probably be pai~ this week, an- com, yet that rs JUSt what you of.ten Essays.. nounced Miss Francis Travis yester- do when you play a slot machme. . · . . . day. The payrolls have gone to AI- They pa,y t·he lights and gas bill or L1brarum Ptclts :Dichonm·y , bany anq ·checks will b~ written ·ip every location where you may find James Brewster, the college libra- the State ·Controller's office as them,. and this is only the ·mini- l'ian, also put the Bible at .the head soon as possible. mum. Often the lowly nickel' rna- of the list. In addition he wanted o chine takes in as much as $100.00 Plutarch's Lives, Shakespeare, Rob- Y CABINET lii:EETING in a week Perhaps you'1e cori- inson Ct·usoe, the Home Book of An important meeting o-f the Y. vinced· that you can't win, but iif Verse, Boswell's \Life. of Samuel M. C. A. Cabinet will be held' toinor~· not remember that you arc contl'i~­ Johnson, Emerson's Essays, Homer, row aftet'noon at 2:30 ln Silliman utingo directly to a fund which sun- Arabian Nights, and an abridged Hall. Nominations for next yeM ports a great portion of the vic!\ dictionary. wUI be considered. and racketeering in your city. ThE~ object of the pres!\nt sm·vey is to get similar lists of ten .books from at least one and possibly two prufessor·s in each depat·tment in the college, During the rest of this semeste>I' various teache-~•s will .be asked about their choice of ten HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING SchenecAla.dy's Telegrapbtc Florlet F I· o w e .. r s o f Q u a l i f y 124 Jay Stret>t Phone ·4-0540. SHOP: Larrabee, Professor of 1 bool>s; the results will br published Philosophy, RPIPC'tP<l C'lPndPning'R ·in ThP Concordit>nsis, 4 N. Y. C. Arcade DL H. A. .. ··\ ./ .. ··· .. ·' ~··· ...... · .' / -· ... ~···· .. ·•· an an -Uckies are p/1- way_s kind to your throat Luckies are always ill all-ways kind to your throat. For every Lucky is made of the choicest of ripe, mellow Turkish and domestic tobaccos-and only the clean center leoves-theytaste better. Then,\lt's toosted\--.for throbt protection. And every Lucky is mode so round, so firm, so fully pocked-no loose. ends. That's why Luckies \keep in condition\ -do not have that objectionable tendency to dry out, .an important point to every smoker. Luckies are always in ~-~ kind .to your throat • ''It's toasted'' { Luckies are f!!!.·ways kind to your throat NOT the top Ieaves-tne.v•re under· dweloped-the.v are harsh I Only the Center Leaves- these are the Mildest ~eaves They taste better NOT the bottom leaves ..... they•re inferior. - in uual;~...,col.lrltl CJnd· sand,! • ......... Le~ Fl Flatt~ I El< I In. J..--- I I I' Vo1. L'i Lon And Edu« Recog11 Fm· Cond Test Says (l Fail \The • the birt: tomb,\ a speakin~ nesday. his earli went on higher ~ be obtai speech f cann \It is -while any deft about tJ:: A colleg great p• man, bt proper l passage talks as ings or \Each how Un be run. tion of mere d ideas er posslblli ian insi There w undergr too seve briefly : gained years. \The college. riculum the ins1 of teacb lege ins est, and persona matter. that \tl those w might f than lis rna chin• should : mass oJ might • in twen often, II the p!i.! those b• passing either. viva! fr dull an ing inf· to deatJ Tests, \Test mental! ier. A intellec· courses noying ants Oil divided dent hf schedul impulsE bore. izes thE and sci turns t: ed-pre if hen four YE numbe1 lastic 1 face th The ell birthpl: \Rob 'college are pol med.' it's WOl \Les1 cationa an atta to corr five WI time tc ians i: These can. '\ Co \And can oil having tunitle: as gre1 ~

this in or ~pus the autos t has Is a in of for tells ar- ! . l I I I, i I t' I ,I. I I Le.slie Long Flays and Flatters College J Education ! In Assembly 1 ~----······J VoL LVH., No. 50 Long Condemns And Praises Union Educational System Recognition of Opportunities For Development Tempers Condemnation of Lectures Test for Mentally Lazy Says Quizzes Ca.t!.se Laziness, Fail to Develop Intellect • UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1934 Criticizes Education · Students Invited To :Join Camping Tour Of Eastern Plants: . Trip, Sponsored hy New York · Foundation, Visits Centei's Of Industry in Summer Gt·oup Is Self-Governing • Members of Each Group Choose Leade1·, Trip Route : Honored by Yale ................ Two New StS Line Coaches Encourage Hopes For Grid Team .......... 1111' ....... PRICE FIVE CENTS Well Known Men Secured To Assist Hatfield Next Year .Arthur Law:.;ence, Outstanding Purdue Center and C. E. Cantrill of Michigan University Will Coach Union Football Team in Line Tactics This Season • Education Council Picks Dt·. Larrabee as Juryman . Professor Harold A. Larrabee, of the philosophy department was one .of 78 leading scholars in the field Experienced Men Lawrence Was Famous Sche- nectady Football Team Star Cantrill Played at Sewanee \The classroom is too ·often not . of philos 0 phy selected by the Amer- Union College students have been, • 1can Council of Educa;tion to ballot the birthplace of auriosity but its LESLIE R. LONG . invited to join a camping trip : ROBERT W. GURRY , 00 the .graduate schools qualified to As a result of agitation for a line- tomb,\ declared Leslie R. Long, '34, through industrial America this : ,give instruction leading to the doc- coach by The Concordiensis and the speaking in daily assembly Wed- 'S t t G• summer sponsored by the Thorne- ·G 1 F•fth M ·torate. The results of the ballot Student Council, Arthur C. Lawr- . ongs ers 0 IVe Loomis. Foundatio~, Inc: 0~ New ; urry s 1 . ' an ·have just appeared 'in the April ence, outstanding center on Pur- nesday. After briefly describing • York City. The tnp, whrch IS free,; issue of the EducationalReoordand due's teams for the past three sea- his earlier college experiences he ·Varl e d Program will c'?ver many .of the.larg.er and Honored by Gran.t ·the New York Times, and have at- sons, and c. E. Cantrill Jr., regular went on to spealc of the purpose of ' more Important mdustnes m the , · tracted wide attention, fj.fty differ- guard on Michigan's Big Ten higher education and how it may --- ea:st. Each trip will be six weeks • ___ ent. fields of knowledge being cov- Champions in 1931 and 1932, have . long. ered. been secured by the Department of be obtained at Union College. His Solos, Quartet, and Comedy For each expedition the Founda- Robert W. Guny '3tl Given The method in each field was to Athletics to assist Head Coach Elli- speech follow 3 : Skit Will Augment C}J,orus tion provides a bus, completely and Post for Next Year in Yale pick a jury of qualified experts who ott Hatfield during the 1934 season, f t bl it was announced this morning by Cannot Value College Worth At A 1 C t D com or a y equipped with sleeping,'. Ch were asked to list the graduate nnua oncer - ance ,cooking, and traveling accommoda- , emistry Graduate School ;:;chools and considered adequately Professor J. Harold Wittner, Direc- \It is impossible for any student tiona for ten people, and a suggest- equipped for advanced instruction, tor of Athletics. -while still in collegB--\-to make ed itinerary with. alternative routes with the upper 5 per cent as \dis- Before the end of the 1~33 season any definite intelligent statement Variety in musical entertainment covering the territory east of the Robert Wilton Gurry, '34 has been tinguished.\ The result .tn phil- The Concordiensis first pointed out about the value of his college work.' will be the keynote of the Glee Mississippi, and including some of appointed to an assistantship in the osophy was that 24 institutions what was wrong with the football Agrecaot~lepgoeteendtur·acaltlv.oanluies stoomt~ehi~Tg~~.· ·Club concert and dance to be held, the nation's principal industries, YC~e~Ysnt~erfsoitry Gnerxatduayteear~ci~toowl asof were approved, and 7 listed as \dis- ~eamh.withth thte st~temetnt that laboratories, mines, and factories, · •,J tinguished.\ coac 1ng e earn IS no a one- man, but this value attains its 'liext Friday evening, April 27, at learned today, Gurry, a candidate man-job.\ More editorials appe;o~.r- proper significance only with the the Mohawk Golf Club under the Select Own Route for the bachelor of science degree• ed during the winter urging the passage of time. The place for such auspices of the Schenect;~.dy Alumni The grqup is in a large way self- in chemistry, at Union, will receive Spring Night Exercises Under students to ask for a line coach. In talks as these is at alumni gather- governing, and one of their mem-· $850 and will work toward his doc- February the Student Council took ings or class reUnions. Association. bers is chosen to act as a leader, it torate degree at Yale. The assist- Terrace Council :Supervision such action, recommending the ath- \Each of us has his own idea of The songs by the entire Glee Club being his responsrbility to choose antship will be renewed .for a sec- letic department to obtain a line how Union should and should not under the dirl)ction of Dr. Elmer A. the itinerary, select the camp site, ond year if his research work war- coach for the coming season. Since be run. Each of us has a concep- arrange for visits to plants, and su- rants it, and he will probably re- A motion was 'passed in Student then, the department of athletics tion of the ideal college. But the Tidmarsh will be interspersed with pervise the provisioning and gen- ceive a fellowship for his third year Council Meeting Wednesday night has looked far and wide and has mere diversity of our individual baritone solos by Herbert Hausser, era! welfare of his l:~arty. In case of research, when he will concen- that Spring Night, hitherto spon- finally selected the highly-recom- ideas emphasizes i:he practical im- student leader of the club, selec- of any emergency, the facilities of' trate entirely upon his doctorate sored by the Student Council, be mended Lawrence and Cantrill. possibility of ever attaining a Utop-· tions by the college string quartet the Foundation are always at his thesis. put into the hands of the Terrace Understudy of \Cookie'' Miller ian institution of higher learning disposal. Gurry is the fifth Union senior Council. Since e:;wh year the_ win- . -·, and a comedy skit rn which the t ·· k' d f h h' ner of the Kreusi Prize for self im- Lawrence, a former Schenectady There will always ·be the dissatisfied . Expeditions start from Tuxedo, 0 idrefceiVe some m 0 sc olars JP provement is awarded by ti 1 e Ter- high school football star, started undergraduate.-But without being vocal quartet Will be featured. The New York, wh,ere the buss!)s are a or graduate school research race Council at that time, it was out in 1931 as an understudy of too severely critcial, I will mention concert will conclude w1th the sing- stationed. Six itineraries have been next year. He has been leading his felt that the exl)rcises should be \COokie\ Miller, Purdue's All-Ameri- briefly a few of the impressions ·mg of college songs wnh the audi- outlined for the groups to follow. clalsls in cHhemistry 6 1 inctedhet enS~ered supervised by that organization. can center. During the past two g ained here during the past three' Sect 10 · n one covers ter·ritory from co ege. e was e ec e 0 rgma. seasons h1's ste d' 1 y th Years. ence participating. The rest of the x· d h ld f th t A committee consistii,Jg of Robert a Y P a as e reg- New York to Buffalo, includi~;~g, 1 . atn tso fs· once 0 e s aget ap- c, North, chairman, R~ed Tripp, ular center of the sturdy Boiler- \The professor makes the liberal evenmg will be spent dancing to Rochester, Albany, Schenectady, pom men or ommencemen · '34, Donald Liffiton, '37, and James maker forward wall has been one college. The success of any cur-. thhe m_usic of the Garnet Goblins, Gloversville, and other points. Sec· . Research In P\\'Sical Che:mis....._· . Doyle, '37, was 11-ppointed to con- of the biggest factors in Purdue's riculum depends very largely upon L e official college dance orchestra. tlon two starts at l3uffalo, and gpes ··J ~or sider methods of improving the successes. the instructors and their methods Auspices of Local Alumni as far west as Grand Rapids, Gurry's chief work this year in band. Daniel Flinn, '34 appointed Lawrence, a 188 pound six-footer, of teaching. The chief value of col- through Akro1;1, Cleveland, Toledo, chemistry has been in physical Austin Fox, '35 chairman of a com- h!I-S always been a keen student of lege instructors Is the color, inter-· Next Friday's concert will mark and Detroit. The third section chemistry under Dr. Charles B. mittee consisting of Ralph Sem- the game ,and on defense seemed est, and significance which their the third annual appearance of the travels from Grand Rapi<!s . to Hurd and in his work on silicic acid erad, '35, and Guy Griswold, '36 to to have the ability to anticipate the personalities impart to the subject club under the sponsorship of the Evansville, touching on the way gels. Gurry has conducted research draw up a plan for more efficient opponents' plays, while on offense matter. Bernard Shaw has written local Alumni Association. The pro- Chicago, Milwauk~e. Springfield; on the change of conductivity of student body meetings pext year. he was an unusually steady and ac- that \those who can, do; (while) ceeds of the affair will go to the and St. Louis. silicic acid gels while setting. At 0 ____ curate passer and effective blocker. thos h c n't t ch\ A student scholarship fund of the association, Yale he will continue research in . e wf. o batt ' ead . I d' which ,each year awards a scholar- The fourth section goes as far as physical chemistry. Students Invt\ted. to Attend He is a senior in the school of m1ght ar e er rea encyc ope Jas ship to some Schenectady boy. Chattanooga, stopping on the way physical education, where he has than listen to a soporific lecture at the Mammoth Caves, Nashville, It is known that Gurry was also Co1·nell Uni\vet·si'ty Confet·ence h d th b fit f · t t· f machr'ne. Obviously· the professor A feature of the program will be ·offered· a scholars\'p by M. I. T. a e ene 0 ms rue wn rom Birmingham, and Atlanta. From· LJ.1 members of P d ' t ff t I Should not Spend an hour to gl 've a two bar1'tone solos by Herbert ur ue s s a , no on Y there another section goes as far as Gurry lives in Alplaus where he --- in the theory f 1· 1 d th mass of facts which the student Hausser He will sing Shubert's 0 me Pay an e · Washington, including Richmond, putters around in his make-shift Students are invited to attend a game r'n general but i t' e m ·l·g·ht easr'ly and. securely acquire \Nacht und Traume\ (N1'ght and • n prac lC • Winston-Salem, and Dansville. The laboratory in the winters. In the f w d F · t Law e e h b 11 b th l 'n twenty mJ'nute·s of read1'ng. Too Dreams) and Koennemann's con erence on ar ·an · acrsm o r nc as een we a ove e • circuit is completed by a section summers he and his brother J. ohn, b h ld C · average ch 1 t• 11 th h t often, notes are transferred from \When the King Went Forth to . e e at orne!I Universrty today, . s 0 as 1ca Y roug ou going to New York, visiting on the also a senior and studying civrl en- tomorrow and Sunday. The confer- his collegiate career the pages before the professor to War\ The latter is a stirring • · . way Philadelphia, Trenton, Prince- gineering, usually work on the farm ence is sponsored by a number of n--trill f G those before the student without piece, in contrast to Shubert's lov- ton, Newark and Baltimore. land his parents own. student organizations of that uni- \\\\• rom eneraJ. Electric passing through the heads of ely melody. He prepared for Union at Nott versity. The guest speakers will be Cantrill, who is at present in the either. The lecture is truly a SlJr- Popular Soloist Beer, Steel Kodaks Terrace high school here. At first Nathaniel Pfeffer, former corres- test department of the General viva! from the middle ages. It is a Visits have been made, and will he wanted to be a doctor. After pondent in the Far East.;. the Hon. Electric Co., played football two dull and ineffective way of attain- Hausser has been singing ihci- be repeated, to such industries as his graduation in June 1929, he William E. Sweet, former governor years with the University of the ing information. We are lectured dental solos with the Glee Club Anheuser-Busch, Inc .. the Bethle- worked for a year, first selling of Colorado; CoL ConraCI Lanza, South at Sewanee and two more, to death. since his freshman year. He sings hem .steel Corporation, the Curtis magazines then for a local bank. U. S. A.; and Professor Harry 1931 and 1932, with Michigan Uni- Tests, Quizzes, Lessons Annoying in the college choir, takes an active Publishing Company, the Eastman His interest in chemistry, aroused Ward, of the Union Theological versity varsity. His cousin, Bryan ·part in local musical circles, and Is Kodak works, the Ford plant, the in high school, increased during the Seminary. S.e~sions will be held to- Shanken, coached at Union twenty \Tests and quizzes are for the often called upon to sing with local Goodyear Zeppelin Corporation, the following summer as he worked on night, tomorrow afternoon and eve- years ago and Jack Blott his for- mentally lazy,-and make them lll.z- church choirs on special occasions. Standard Oil of New York, and his father's land and entered Un- ning, and Sund!lY Morning and mer line-coach at Michigan, is now ier. A receptacle for facts, not an In addition to his musical activities, others. ion, specializing in chemistry. afternoon. head coach at Wesleyan, Union's intellect, is developed. Lessons, Hausser is holder of the Oswald The individual groups are, in gen- first opponent next fall. courses, and semesters are only an- Scholarship, a member of the Hale era!, organized among employees of On the Michigan campus, Cantrill noying divisions imposed by ped- Clilli, and an honor student in his· large business organizations,_ and Dr. Nott Won Favorable A t~e· n·tz·on showed his ability as a leader by ants on rebellious ploders. Time is tory. He expects :to attend Yale among students. It is the policy of (,1 getting elected president Of the en- divided, life mapped out. The stu- Divinity School after his graduation the Foundation to permit the leader glneering dass, president of the Phi dent has only to fit himself into his this June. of each expedition to arrange his TI\T.z•th TT.z·go· ·~ous Attack· On Duellz·ng Delta Theta fraternity, vice-presi- schedule and stifle all individual own trip and gives his personal in- ,, j r j • I dent of the Michigan Union, and impulses. He calls the classroom a itiative in obtaining entrance to the member of the Student Council. bore. It is. If a student memor- CAL~NDAR places visited free rein. The Foun- By RICHARD E. PASSENGER Michigan Undefeated in 1932 izes the facts of history, philosophy, dation is glad to make any sugges- Dr. Eiiphalet Nott is usually swing public opinion against the Th 1932 Mi hi t h T da; tiohs, and provide letters of intro- e c gan eam was the and science, if, lilte a parrot, e 1 tre- o Y duction and recommendation. thought of by the undergraduates long-standing \code of honor\ by fifth Michigan team to go through turns them to his professor una er- Tennis, Union vs. Haverford at OtherWise, all other arrangements of today as the successful adminis- which a slight provocation often the season unbeaten and untied and ~fd-h precisely the same as git':'en ofut, Haverford. are in the hands of the groups. trator whose boundless energy and resulted in a serious affair on the was the undisputed Big Ten champ. 1 e maintains this prac 1ce or thoughtful foresight as president in dueling ground. Dr. Nott stated According to Grantland Rice, the four years, accumulating a certain Tomorrow Specially Equipped Busses the early ye0;rs of the college gave it that any nation which would toler- 1931 Michigan team showed \The number of credits, meeting all scho- Dally Assembly, Dr. E. M. Ligon The ·busses fm'nished by the a ranking position among the fore- ate dueling could not claim to be most outstanding example of line lastic requirements, he is ready to Lacrosse, Alumni vs. Colgate at Foundation provide living and trav- most of the early American educa- truly civilized and he cited the play in the history of football-the face the world-a Bachelor of Arts.. Schenectady, 3 p.m.; Union vs. eling facilities for those making the tional institutions. A perusal of the Romans as an example of a sen- best example of Michigan defensive The cla.Ssroom is too often not the Hobart at Geneva . tour. The bus can be turned into centennial magazine published in strategy.\ Against this team Illi- birthplace of curJ'os· ity but 1'ts tomb · 1895, however, reveals ·the wr'de- sible people who would not allow · p · t I d' • · Baseball, Union vs. Stevens at a spacious tent if needed. The rear nms, rmce on, n rana and Chi- \R b t I 11 'd th t spread reputatl'on whi'ch thr's great contests so destructive to morale cag d all t th t . o er ngerso once sal a Hoboken contains a fuliy-equipped kitchen o manage , oge er, o gam 'college is a piace where pebbles Track, Union vs. Swarthmore at and larder, with a stove, an ice-box, man enjoyed .as a preacher and 'but in their place encouraged fight- only 18 yards from scrimmage. lUi- are polished and diamonds are dim- Swarthmore and ldtchen equipment. The bus orator prior to his connection with lng against a common enemy. nois got minus seven and Princeton med.' We can take this for what Tennis, Union vs. Swarthmore at also carrieS camp chairs, individual the college. The sermon, qu9ted at length in minus two yards. it's worth. Swarthmore lockers, water tanks, and other sup- His most famous address was a various periodicals at the time, The two line-coaches will begin \Lest this mild criticism of edu- Neutral Dance at the Hotel Van plies. Sleeping quarters are pro- sermon, delivered in 1804 at the .reads like some impressive histor- their duties September 1st. cational methods 'be interpreted as Curler vided by special bed-frames that North Dutch Church in Alhany, in leal treatise, but the wen chosen an attack upon the faculty I hasten S · can be suspended from the sides of memocy of Alexander Hamilton, scriptural references denote the pul- to correct the impression. Less than unday the bus by specially-constructed whose sudden death at the hands of pit as its birthplace. All the vigor five weeks before finals is a poor sunday Service, Rev. T. c. :rods.. Aaron Burr was such a shock to and zeal of an earnest reformer are ' time to publicly criticize our guard· Speers 1•!.:=::....---------..-----.. the Amedcan public.. This speech shown in its spirited phraseology ians in our search for wisdom. Organ Recital, 4: p. m. was a stirring and vigorous denun- and the entire worlt exhibits the These men are doing the liest they CORRECTION elation of the toleration of dueling, mark of more than mediocre liter- can. What more should we ask? Monda;y ~-- a practice which had lost for the ary a)Jility. One can not f'a.ll to College Offers Opportunity League of Eva:ngelical Students, Mrs. Augustus Fox, wife of colmtry the invaluable services of grasp some of the spnit of the dis- \And as for the college itself, I 5 S. S. C. 3:30 p. m. Professor Fox: and not Dr. Dixon the .great statesman, Hamilton. The course upon a first reading and fur- can only ·Say that I do not regret Philomathean, Society, Old Ryan Fox will address the Fa~- effect which this loss had on the ther study brings a real apprecia- having caine to Union. The oppor• Chapel, 7:30 p. m. tilty Woma.n's Club this after• peopTe opened their heard ts 1 to Dr. btion of the effortt which must have tunities for intellectual .growth are' Tuesda;y noon. Nott's timely sermon an it s gen- een neces:;Jq,ry Q produce S\JCh a as great here as at any number of DaHy .Assembly, George R. Cocy erally conceded that this one dis- dramatic appeal to the people of (Continued on Page !~<) course did more than any other to the countcy. CAPS AND GOWNS Measurements for caps and gowns will •be taken Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday after- noons from 2 until 5 in Silliman Hall. The rental fee will •be, as in the past, three dollars and fifty ceri.Jts and the customary four dollar deposit will be re- quired. This deposit is refunded · when the gowns are returned.

thiH or the auto:; has i:o; a in of fo1· tell:; Pt·om ar- iii m m m m ::: m ::: m ~~ ~ fi! m m ::: Leslie Long Flays and Flatters College Education ' In Asseml>lv t • t t I ' t ..1.------------- Vol. LVII., No. 30 Long Condemns And Praises Union Educational System Recognition of Oppol\tunities For Development Tempers Condemnation of Lectures Test for Mentally Lazy Says Quizzes Cause Lazine..\ls Fail to De\·elop Intellect \The cla:;sroom i:< too often not the birthplace of curio:o;ity but it,; tomb,\ declared Le:-.lie R. Long, '34, speaking in daily assembly Wed- m:sday. After briefly describing his eatlier college experiences he went on to ~peak of the purpo:;e of higher education and how it may be obtained at Union College. His speech follow.;· Cannot Value Collegt• Worth \It is impossible for any student while still in college to mal<e any definite int<>lligent sta.tement about th~e value of hi:o collet.:\ wol\IL A college education is :;omething of greal potential value to the 1 ight man, but this value attain:< its proper significance only with the pn><sage of time. The place fo1· :mch talks as thE'se i>< at alumni gathPr- ings or class reunion;;. \Each of us has his own itlc>a of how Pnion should und should not he run. Eaeh of us has a concPp- tion of the ideal <'Ollege. But the mel e diversity of our individual idt•as emphasize~ the practical im- possibility of eve1 attaining a L'top- \m in~titntion of higher learning. There will alway\ bt· tlH' dbsatisfied undergraduatP. But without bf'ing tuo ,evetely crttcial, I will mention briefly a fpw of the impt·es:o;ions gained hen• during tht· past tht ee yPat,:;. \ThP profpssDl\ ma.k1·;. t hr hlwr ul college. The ~ucce,;s of any cui- riculum dPpend~ very largely upon the instruct01 s and thell\ lllPthotl,; of tl'aching. ThP clu!'f valUE' of eol- !Pge inst1uctoJ~ b thP culm·, inter- p,\, an,! signitlC'anC'e WhiCh their personalities impal t tu lhr >'UbjE'ct mutter. BetnU!tl :>haw ha' Wlitten that \those who can, do; 1 while l thos!' who C'an't, teaC'h.\ A ><lUdPnt might far better 1 !'ad encyclopedias than list<'n to a ,.;uporiliP ll•ctutt• ma<'hinE'. Obviously the p1 ofessor should not spl'nd un hour to give a ma,;s uf fa<'ts which thP ,.;tudPnt might easily and H'l'U rdy acqul re in twenty minutes of r<·,lliing. Too often. notes at<' ttansfprrell ftom thP pagp,; befol P the profPti>OI to those before the stuu!'nt without pa~sing thtough thP head>< of Pither. Th£' lecture is truly a svr- vLval from the middle ages. It is a dull and in<>ff<'CtiV<' way of attain- mg infm mation. \Ve are lPctured tu death. TPsts, QuizzPs, LPssons Annoying \Tests and quizzes at·P for the mentally lazy. and make them laz- iet·. A receptac!e for facts, not an mtellect. is developed. Le~sons. courses, and ~rmesters are only an- noying divi~ions imposed by ped- ants on 1 cbPllious ploder><. Time i~ divided, lifP mapped out. The stu- dent has only to fit himself into his schedule and stifle all individual ImpulsE's. He calls the classroom a bore. It i:;. If a student memor- izes the facts of history, philosophy, and science. if. like a par·rot, he re- turn,; them to his professor unalter- ed precisely the same as given out, if he maintains this practice for four years. accumulating a certain number of crellits, meeting all scho- lastic requirements. he is ready to face the world a Bachelor of Arts. The classroom is too often not the birthplace of curiosity, but its tomb. ''Robert Ingersoll once said that 'college is a place where pebbles are polished and diamonds are dim- med.' We can take this for what it's worth. \Lest this mild critici\m of ellu- cational methods be interpreted ns an attack upon the faculty I hasten to correct the impression. Less than five weeks before finals is a poor time to publicly criticize our guard- ians in our search for wisdom. These men are doing the best they can. What more should wf! ask? Collegt> Offers Opportunity \And as for the college itself, I can only say that I do not rPgret having come to Union. The oppor- tunities for intellectual growth are as great here as at any number of (Continued on Page 4) 1\vo Ne\v Line Coaches Encourag;r I lopes For Grid Team t_ ______ j UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FHIDAY, .\PHIL ~o. 1931 PRICE FIVE CENTS Criticizes Education LESLIE R. I.ONG Songsters to Give Varied Program Solos, Quartet, and Comedy Skit Will Augment Chorus At Annual Concert-Dance Variety in musical entertainment will be the keynote of the Glee Club concert and dance to be held next Ft·iday evening, April 27, at the Mohawk Golf Club under the auspice:; of the Schenectady Alumni A:;~ocia tion. The :;ongs by the entire Glee Club under tht> direction of D1. Elmer A. Tidmm:;h Will be inlen;per:;ed with ban tone solos by Het·bel t Hausser, ~tudent leader uf the club, selec- l!Oib by the eoli~ge str mg qUal tel and u comedy skH in which tlw ,·ocal quartPt will bP tPatured. ThP .:unt·c•Jt w1ll conciuue w•tn the \in~­ mg ul cullege sung:; w.th the aud1· t•n<'<' pulllclpaling. Tlw 1·est of the l 1 Vt•tung Will bP ~pent tlanl'ing to ihP nm~le of thP llarnPt tiouun:<, thP oliJciul college tlanee orchest1·a. Aus(}i<'es of Loc.al Alumni NPxt FI iday's concei-t v.ill marlt tht· thi1 d annual appeal a nee of the cl ulo under the spuns01 ship of the local Alumni Association. The pro- ceed:o; of the affair will go Lo the ,;cholar·:;hip fund of the a;;sociation, which each year awards a scholar- ,;hip to some Schenectady boy. A feature of the program will be two baritone solos by Herbert HaussPr. He w·ill sing Shubert's \:'olacht und Traume\ 1 Night and Dreams!, and Koennemann's \\When the King Went Forth to War\. The latter hl a stining piece, in contrast to Shuber·t's lov- ely melody. Popular Soloist Hau:;:;er· has been singing inci- dental solos with the Glee Club since his freshman year. He sings in the college choir, takes an active part In local musical circles, and is often called upon to sing with local church choirs on special occasions. In addition to his musical activities, Hausser is holder of the Oswald Scholarship, a member of the Hale Club, and an honor student in his- tmy. He expects to attend Yale Divinity School after his graduation this June. CALENDAR Today Tennis. Union vs. Haverford at Haver ford. Tomorrow Daily Assembly, Dr. E. M. Ligon Lacrosse, Alumni vs. Colgate at Schenectady, 3 p.m.; Union vs. Hobart at Geneva Baseball, Union vs. Stevens at Hoboken Track. Union vs. Swarthmore at Swarthmore Tennis. Union vs. Swarthmore at Swarthmore Neutral Dance at the Hotel Van Curler Sunday Sunday Service, Rev. T. C. Speers Organ Recital, 4 p. m. Monday League of Evangelical Students, 5 S. S.C. 3:30p.m. Philomathean Society, Old Chapel, 7:30 p. m. Tuesday Daily Assembly, George R. Cory Students Invited To Join Camping Tour Of Eastern Plants Trip, S(>on:sored by New York Foundation, Visits Centers Of Industry in Summer Group Is Self-Governing Members of Each Group Choose Leader, Trip Route L'nion College :o;tudent:; have IJePn inv1ted to join a campmg trip through indu:o;trial America this oummer sponsored by the Thorne- Loomis Foundation, Inc. of New Yorl-< City. The trip, which i:o; free, will cover many of the larger and more important industrie:o; in the east. Each trip will be six weeks long. Fo1 e::~ch expedition the Founda- tiOn pro\'ille~ a bus, completely and comfortably equipped with ,;leeping. cooking, and tru\·eling accommoda- tions for ten people, and a sugge,;t- etl itinerary with alternative mute~ covering the terri tor·y east of the cvll:osissi].Jp!, and including some of the natwn's p1 incipal industl\ies. laboratories, mines, and factoriP\· SPleet Own Rout~· The group is in a !at ge way self- governing, and one of their mem- be!s is chosen to uct as a leader. it bein~ his responsibility to choose thP itineraty, srlP<'t the eump sitE>. ,nrange for visits to plant,;, and su- pervi'e the provisioning and gen- e! ul welfa1 e uf his ;>UI ty. In c::~se uf any emet·gency, the facilities of thp Foundation a!£' alway~ at his disposal. Expedition\ stu It f1 om Tuxedo. New Yorl<. where the bub,;es a1e stationed. Six itme1 ariP:o have been outlined fo1· the gwups to follow. Section one covers tenitory ft om New York to Buffalo, including. Roche~ter, Albany, Schenectady. Gluver,;vdle, and othe1 point,;. SPC'· tion two stat·ts at Buffalo, and goe' as far west as Grand Hapids, thWUf\h Alu·on. Cleveland, Tolt•do. and DPtl uit. Tht• lhi1 d sPelion travPls from G1 and Rapid::; tu Bvunsville, touching un the wa~· Chicago, Milwau!<~e. Springfield. and St. Louis. The fourth section goes a,; far a; Chattanooga, :<lopping un the way at the .:.Iammoth Cave:<. Nashville, Bhmingham, and Atlanta. F1om there anoth£'1' st·ction gats as fur as Washington. including Richmond, Winston-Salem. and Dano\'ille. ThP circuit is completed by u ~ection going to New York. visiting on the way Philadelphia, T1 en ton, Pt incP· ton. Newarl< and Baltimore. BPer, Steel Kodaks VIsit.; have been made. and will be repeated, to such industries af Anheuser-Busch, Inc.. the Bethle- hem Steel Corporation, the CUJ tis Publishing Company, the Eastman Kodak works. the Ford plant. the Goodyear Zeppelin Corporation. thP Standard Oil of New Ym k, and others. The individual groups a1 e. in gPn· eral. organized among employPes of la1ge businesb organizations. and among students. It is the policy of the Foundation to permit the leader of each expedition to anangc hb own trip and gives his personal in- itiative in obtaining entrance to the places visited f1 ee rein. The Foun- dation is glad to make any sugges- tions. and provide letter:; of intro- duction and recommendation. Otherwise, all other arrangements are in the hands of the groups. Specially Equipped Busses The busses furnished by the Foundation provide living and trav- eling facilities for those maldng the tour. The bus can be turned into a sp~cious tent if needed. The rear contains a fully-equipped kitchen and larder. with a stove, an ice-box, and kitchen equipment. The bus also carries camp chairs, individual lockers, water tanks, and other sup- plies. Sleeping quarters are pro- vided by special bed-frames that can be suspended from the sides of the bus by specially-constructed rods. CORRECTION Mrs. Augustu~< Fox, wife of Professor Fox and not Dr. D1xon Ryan Fox will address the Fac- ulty \Voman's Club this after- noon. Honored by Yale Well Known Men Secured To Assist Hatfield Next Year Arthur Lawrence, Outstanding Purdue Center and C. E. Cantrill of Michigan University \Vill Coach t.•nion Football Team in Line Tactics This Season HOBERT \Y. GI.\RRY Gurry Is Fifth Man Honored by Grant Robert W. Gurry ':l.t Given Post for :\'ext Year in Yale Chemistry Graduate :-:;chool Robert Wilton Guny, '34 has been appointed to an assistantship in thP Yale Unive1 sity Graduate School of Chemi~try for next year it wa,; lea1ned today, Guny, a cnndi<btP for the bachelor of science deg1 ee in chembtt y. t. t L\nion. Will 1 e<·<·l n $1550 and will work towcu d hb doc· torate deg1ee at Yale·. The a,.;-t~t· antship will be rem•wed tor a '£'('· ond year If Ius 1 e,;eall'h wull> \\\'«!· rant>< it. and hP Will ptolJaLiy !<' ceiVL' a felluw:,hlp fu1 Ius thild yt·al of reseal ch, wlwn hP will ct~ncL•n­ trate entirely upon h1\ tloctotal.(• thPsis. Guny is the fifth L'nion S<'niOJ to receive some ldnd of ,;cholar ship aid for graduatE' sehoul n•sf'ul ch next yea!\. He has bPPn lpading his class in chemiHtly since he entE'll'd collegP. He was eleded to Sigma Xi and hold,; ant· of the :;tage ap· pointmPnts for Commencement. . Research In !'hysical Chemistry . Guny's chief wml{ this yPar in chemistry has bt>Pn in phy~iPal chembtry under Dr. Cha!lPs H Hurd and in hi~ work on sili<'i<' add gPls. Gun y hu~ conductl'd n•sPatTh on the C'hangP of c>onductivit~ ot silicic acid gels while :-;etting. At Yale he will continue re,warC'h in phy~ical clu:mist1 y. It is known that Guny was also offered a scholarship by .:\1. I. T. Guny lives in Alplaus whe1e h1• putte1s a.Juuntl in his makt'-><hift laboratoiy in thP winteis. In tl11• sumlll<'l s lw and hi:; b1 ot lu·l J oL.n, also a :oenior and studying ei vii !'11- gineering, usually wot k on tht• fa I m land his parents own. He prepared for Union at Not.t Terrace high school here. At first he wanted to be a doctor·. AftPI hi>< graduation in June 1929. he worl<ed for a year, fir:o;t selling magazines thPn for a local bank. His inter est in chPmisti-y, aroused in high school. increased during the following summer as he work!'d on his father's land and enterPd Un- ion, specializing in chemistry. Education Council Picks Dr. Larrabee as Juryman 1'1 ofe~:;ur Harold A. Larrabee, of the philusuphy dt>pa1tment was one of i'b leadmg scholars in the Held of ph!looophy :o;elected by the Amer- ICan Coum·il of Education to ballot on the graduate ~choob y_ualified to g1ve mstrucuon leudmg to the duc- tomte. The results of the ballot have juot appeared m the April ts,;ue of the Educational Record and rhe .:\ew York Time~. and have at- tracted wide attention, fifty differ- cnc field,; of knowledge being cov- en•d. Tlw method in each field was to pick a JUlY uf 'lualified experts who wei\ a;ked to list the graduate .oehuuls <.~.nd con:o;idel'ed adequately equ1pped for advanced instruction, w1th the upper 5 ver cent as \di~­ unguJshed.\ The reoult in phil- ,,,;ophy wa:o; that 2! in~titutions we1e appro\'ed, anti 7 listed ati \di~­ llnguished.\ 0 ~pring _:-..;ight Exerci:-;es Under Terrace Council Supervision A motion wa.' pusoPd in Student Council .:\IP<•ting \\\t>dm;;day night thar Sp1mM Night, hithetto spon- ~01 ed bv the Student Council. be put m t,; the hands of the Tenace l'\uneiL Sine\ each year the win- ner uf the Klt'usi P1 ize for self im- plOVPlllent 1s awarded by the Ter- lac,• Cuundl ut that tm1e, it was felt that the exet c1ses should be ~upel vbed by that organization. A committee con,bting of Robert C. Nu1lh, chai1 man, Reed Tripp, \34. !Jonaltl Liffiton, ·37, anti James !Joyl<', '37, WU>' appointed to con- \illPI methods of improving the band. DaniPl Flinn, '34 appointed Austm Fox, '35 chairman of a com- nutteP l\U!l~i~ting of Ralph Sem- er ad, ·3;,, and Guy Griswold, '36 to d1.1W up a plan fu1 nwre f!fficiPnt stlldl'nl L>ody !IH'etmg,- next yf'ar. . 0 - :-:;tudents Invited to Attend Com ell l\ nh·ersity Conference Studt•nt., al<' lllVitt•cl to attend a confer·enl't' <HI \\'ar and Fucism to l>c held at Cui nell L'niveroity today, tumonuw and Sunday. The confer- r·nce b Bpun\UI ed by a number of ,:tutlt·nt 01ganizations of that uni- \'Pr~ity. ThP gue:o;t »peaket·:o; will be ;\;atha mel Pfeffer. former corre:;- pondPnt m the Fat· East; the Hon. William .K Sweet. former governor of Culot ado; Cul. Conrad Lanza, t•. S. A.; and Ptofessor Harry Wart!. of the Cnion Theolog-ical Semmary. Ses~ions will be held to- mght, tomorrow afternoon and eve- ning, and Sunday Moming and aftNnoc.n. -------------------------------- Dr. Nott Won Favorable Attention With Vigorous Attack On Duelling B~· RICHARD E. PASSE:-.JGER Dr. Eliphalet ;\;ott L> l!sually j swing public opinion against the thought of by the undt·• ;.;t.tduate~ long-,.;tanding \code of hono1\ by of today as th!' sucee,sful adminis- which a slight provocation often tr·ato1· who6 ~ bound!<\\ C'nergy and resulted in a serious affair on the thoughtful for<>sight ·\ pr PsidPnt i_n dueling ground. Dr. Nott stated the ear.ly ye.Lr': of tlw collt-gt· ga.v\ lt that any nation which would toler- a rankmg P 0 ~1t1on amm:g thP fm P· ate dueling could not claim to be ~ost ~f t~e r.arly AnH'nC'an educa- t 1 uly civilized and he cited the Experienced Men Lawrence Was Famous Sche- nectady Football Team Star Cantrill Played at Sewanee As a result of agitation for· a line- coach by The Concordiensi:o; and the Student Council, Arthur C. Lawl·- ence, outstanding center on Pur- due's teams for the pa~t three sea- sons, and C. E. Cantrill Jr., regular guard on Michi~an':o; Big Ten Champions in 1931 and 1932, have been secured by the Department of Athletics to assist Head Coach Elli- ott Hatfield during the 1934 season. it wa..s announced this morning by Professor J. Harold Wittner, Direc- tor of Athletics. Before the end of the 1933 season The Concordiensis first pointed out what was wrong with the football team with the stat0mcnt that \coaching the team is not a one- man-job.\ More editorials appear- ed during the winter urging the students to ask for a line coach. In February the Student Council took such action, recommending the ath- letic department to obtain a line coach for the coming season. Since then, the department of athletics has looked far and wide anti ha:o; finally selected the highly-r ecom- mended Lawrence and Cantrill. Understudy of \Cookie\ MillPr Lawrence, a former Schenectady high school football star, started out in 1931 as an understudy of \Cookie\ Miller, Purdut•'s All-Arne! i- can center. During the past two seasons his steady play as the reg- ular center of the sturdy Boiler- maker fo1ward wall has been on£' of the biggest factors in Purdue·~ successes. Lawrenc<J, a 188 pound :;ix-footer. ha~ always been a keen student of the game .and on defense seemed to have the ability lo anticipate the opponent,;' play~. while on offen~e he wa» an unu,;ually steady and ac- curate passe-r and effective blocker. He is a senior in the ,C'hool of physical education, where he has had the benefit of instruction f1 om members of Purdue's staff, not only in the theor·y of line play and the game in general, but in plactJce. Lawrence has been well above the average schol&;tically thruu~hout his collegiate career. Cantriil from GPneral Electric Cantrill, who is a.t pre:;ent in the te;,t department of the General Electric Co., played football two years with the Univer><ity of the South at Sewanee and two more, 1931 and 1932, with !'v1ichigan L;ni- versity varsity. His cousin, Bryan Shanken. coach0d at Union twPnty years ago and Jack Blatt h1s fm·- mer line-coaeh at Michigan. is now head coach at Wesleyan, L'nion's first opponent next falL On the Michigan campus, Cantril! showed his ability as a l!'uder by getting elected president of the E'n· gineering class. pre:oident of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity, vice-p1·csi· dent of the Michigan Cnion, and member of the Student Council. 1\lichigan Undefeated in 1932 t10nal mstltutwn,;. A pc>ru~al of the . . .. centennial magazine published in ~oman:s as an example of a sen- 1895, however. revPals thP wide- tilble people who would not allow spread reputation which this great cont:sts s? destructive to morale man enjoy£'d as a pt·eachPl\ and ?ut 1n t.he1r place encouraged fight- orator pri01· to hbi connection with mg aga111st a common enemy. the college. The sermon, quoted at length in The 1932 Michigan team was the fifth Michigan team to go th10ugh the season unbeaten und untiPd and was the undisputed Big Ten champ. According to Grantland Rice, the 1931 Michigan team showed \The most outstanding example of line play in the history of foothall lht> best example of Michigan drfensive strategy.'' Against this team Illi- nois, Princeton, Indiana and Chi- cago managed, all togethe1·, to gain only 18 yards from scrimmage. Illi- nois got minus seven and Princeton minus two yards. The two line-coaches will begin their duties Septembet· 1st. CAPS AND GOWNS His most famous address was a various periodicals at the time, sermon, delivPred in 1R04 at the reads like some impressive histor- North Dut<'h Church in Albany, in ical treati:o;e, but the well chosen memoty of Alexander Hamilton. scriptural references denote the pul- whose sudden death at the hands of pit as its birthplace. All the vigor Aaron Burr was such a shocl{ to and zeal of an earnest reformer are the American public. This speech shown in its spirited phraseology was a stirring and vigorous denun- and the entire work exhibits the ciation of the toleration of duPling. mark of more than mediocre liter- a practice which had lost for the ary ability. On.e can not fail to country the invaluable ~ervice;; of grasp some of the spirit of the dis- the great ~tatf',man. H:~milton. Thr t'nur,_,r upon a fir~t reading and fur- effect which this los::; had on the ther study brings a real apprecia- people opi'ned their henrts to Dr. tion of the effort which must have Nott's timely sC'rmon and it is gen- been necessary to produce such a erally conceded that this one dis- dramatic appeal to the people of l-------------------l· course did more than any other to the country. Measurements for caps and gowns will be taken Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesllay after- noons from 2 until 5 in Silliman Hall. The rental fee will be as in the past, three dolJ.a'\ ~nt! fifty cents and the customary four dollar deposit will be re- quired. This deposit is refunded when the gowns are returned.

..• Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 20', 1934 draw up a comprehensive plan which would li ;~~·1)ntl(..,1t• meet the needs ;f modem day ·edt~cation in •J lJ · I. . .41 .4J addition to being a forward step of worth. -' Letters to the Edito.r llil=E=P;;;;;,;;;;;LU=RI=BU;;;;;S=UN=U=M= ~· \A Oa'!lsa Poraa Parole A.silai\ FOUNDED 1877 ~S!IO.:ia!t~, !~U~9,iatt J)rt.SG ~ 19JJ (N.I.liO~CovtRAGE) 'J-934 E. The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Publiahed Tuesdays and Frld~ys throughout the college year, except durmg Chl'istmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334o State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 44141 Entered .at the Schenect!ldY Post Office as Second Cl'ass Mail. Matter Subscription price Five cents. a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Bnlon College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business -communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other c~mmunicati~rua to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi :j='s1 Lodge, Unwn College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-In-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg ........... Business ¥anager Donald B. Moulton ........... Managing Editor Joseph A. Woolman .............. News E~tor Milton .A. Berger ................ Spor.ts Editor Thornton W. Whipple .... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. Alld~rs<>n R. North A. Stevenson LET'S REJOICE What Is Intellect? Dear :tl:ditor: which so liberally sprinkles the Idol R. P. I. Eg~ is low on our side of the campus, · the engineers are Mr. Wassmans- A group of several hundred R. P. d f' It 1 f t' I. \gentlemen\ ma:de a general Paul Wassmansdorf, by his de- or s peers on a eli ura 00 mg. nuisance of themselves Wed.nesd P reciating remarks in the da!ly as- Mr. Wassmansdorf states: \I am . ht . f - ay . not an engineer.\ It is perhaps 'mg m ront of ProctGr's The~J;tve, senibly of_ April 12, and his ·public F. o· urth Street Troy It all \' ted well for the profession that he Is • · · · · Scar Th . f · utterances in the Concordiensis, has· not. · · -so we lear•ned from the police . e appomtment o two such famous h h · 1 t' · . gheenlderuapl atnde ttheec ennigcai·nee~r~glo.gn:oupl~.. VADEN R. BUTLER, C. E. '37 . with alan intetr-elasfs scrap it~ which • football players as Arthur Lawrence and C. ----u1--- ·sever era es o aroma 1c eggs in particular as objects of scorn were tossed about in nG specific • E. CantriU as line coaches to assist Coach. and ridicule. Although aptly Compal·ative Religion direction. It soon developed into a phrased, Mr. Wassmansdorf's speech riet which threatened serious dam- ; Elliott Hatfield on the gridiron next year is , ample cause for general Pejoicing over the :. entire campus. , With these two men secured to buil'd a strong· line fm· the 1934 ele\'en, a new en- ' thusiasm about Unimi's prospects for a • good season should ·quickly arise. Not only ' will the drugstore quarterbacks be much was the worst example of crudity, Dear Editor: age to pevsonal and public pt,operty. boorishness, and disregard for the. Next year the Division of Social One shot was fired when a college feelings of his classmates that 1 Studies will offer a new course to egg-thrower exhibited his remark- have, so far, heard in· U~;~ion Col- be called Comparative Religion. It able prowess by placing some hen- lege. In fact, the attitude of the. will undertake a scientific approach fruit nicely in the eye o.f one of administration in regar(i to the en-. to the .study of the place of religion \Troy's Finest\. We sincerely con~ gineering department has not as• in human soCiety,. its nature and· gratulate these boys oil their con- yet been clearly defined. origin, and a surv~y of the world's sistent efforts to uphold the envi- Perhaps Mr. Wassmanstlorf does major religious movements. The -able traUitiun of their :;chool. \Ve knew that there is more to a cui- philosophical issues raised by the 'suggest they put on sh011i pants and tured man than the facility with • claims of religions to truth will also amuse themselves by playing in. a which he uses his own. and foreign be considered·, The purpose of the sand pile. After all, perhaps one tongHes. Regard for the common <Jourse will not be edification or can't be both a scholar and a rules of etiquette and decency is evangelism, but rather as. u'nbiased gentleman. . * one of the ·keys to leader<;hip and is • a study as is possible of religion as . • happier, but throughout the entire football one of the earmarks of an intellec- ·a social phenomenon. Attention will Prize bull of the week- , tual and cultured man. In Mr .. be paid to several nrimitive forms : d tl I' t' th t U · 'II t 1 t h 11 h ... In the Concordiensis ·and Gazette · squa 1e rea 1za 1011 a ·mon WI' a as .. Wassmansdorf t e co ege as pro- • of religion, to Shintoism, Hinduism, d d b th · t 11 t · 1 d -\Dr. Dbmn Ryan. Fox, president i have an adequate coaching staff, one that compares favorably with that of our oppo- ·· nents, will arouse needed confidence and in- • terest. uce o an m e ·ec ua · an an Buddhism, Greek religion, Judaism, egotist. Mr. Wassmansdorf's whole and Christiahtiy. Friess and elect of 'Union College, will give a 1 talk on Modern Art at the faculty attitude seems unworthy of a co- Schneider's recent \Religion ih Var- women's tea. ·Fl·iday\. The low- lege man. ious Cultures\ will probably be used down is that Mrs. Augustus H. .,..,....,. It would be unfair to intimate as a foundation tex.t, with indepen- -J h M W d f I k h · Fox, wife of the physics instructor t at r. assmans or ac s sc o- dent .studies according to the main lastic ability. .As he so modestly interests of the students. and foGtball coach is to give the tells us, only a brainy few can ex- The course will be given by Pro- lecture Friday and the subject is k Phi B t Ka ;.Modern Painting. It seldom pays Another cause for rejoicing is the co- ~~~re tfs am~i! chance ~h~t th!~::. fessor Harold A. Larrabee, who of- ·anyone-except Will Rogers-to V. G.llbert V. Trumbull Issue Editors: J. Anderson, V. Gilbert ·operation shown by those who were respon- '------------------·· sible for the procuring of the two assistants. fered a seminar on a similar sub- ·believe an ile reads in. the pape 1 ·s. curing of his gold key is the stim- ject as an advanced course in phil- h . h h · M w .And -it's perhaps not a bad idea to ulus w 1c as g1ven r. -ass- osophy during 1928-29. The course h t · 11 d \ 11 d keep in mind the possibility of mansdorf w a IS ca e a swe e next year will be an elective open · d h'b't d 1 1 there being more than one fox jn head.\ He ha ex 1 1 e a arm ng. to Juniors and Seniors without pre- the world, Dr. G. Marcellus Clowe and others interested Reporters Contributing to This Issue R. Cohen C. Marshall R. Passenger symptoms on previous occasions. requisites, and is one of the courses · · · d h d Mr. Wassmansdorf, when he so in special fields which has been Ill Umon S·ports mentwne t .e nee of a heartily damns the engineers, does made possible by the new divisional l . h Th C d' · t d I not pause and r-eflect that all the organization of the college. me coac , e oncor 1ens1s s age a ong comforts and conveniences which W. Ferguson • drive, the Student Council made its recom- ================= mendation to the Athletic Board, the Ath- he now enjoys would not be his H. A. LARRABEE. were it not for the engineers and· practical men who have preceded· him. Our reviler would, even now, Good Work FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1934 MARKING SYSTEM I.etic Board investigated and selected, the ad- be treading the depths of the Black Edit<>r of the Concordiensis: Forest clad in a bear skin and arm- Hats off to the carpet-baggers. tJU with d. :;tone hatchet if the sci- It may be that the llu-callt>d l<>rm ence of engineering had never ex- applies t<> some students, but de-- isted. Mr. Wassmansdorf knows· <lldedly not in the case of those ap- ministration appt·ovcd, and now we have two capable men who should satisfy all parties concemed. that even the Father of Our Coun- pointed to· Sigma Xi and Phi Beta . try was an engineer. Kappa. It seems that six of the I}; * * Instory repeEtts itself. Another spoon so soon? Congratulations. Many happy returns of the day. How about a cigar or two? * * * Schenectady 'has more great lit · t t yth' b t I have been assured continually Phi Bettes and three of the Sigs Several weeks ago The Concordiensis sug- IS no necessary 0 say an mg a ou that I am non compis mentis, a nit- elected in a group of twenty-one, the new assistants, their records speak for wit, a moron. I am told that five. two of whom rated both societies, minds than a.ny other city of its size in the country. One of its men- tors informed us yesterday th,at \Lh<> ~;;amblin~;; Lill ha:; pa..>~ed Lhe assembly as well as the senate\ 1\l()st of us were strongly tempted to vigorously applaud 1Jh.is state- ment but perhaps we lacked the courage. Why should not the state recognize and tax a common prac- tice which cannot be prevented by law? It is an infinitely saner pol- icy than that of church \ostrich- ism\ which hol<ls that the mere placing of a law .for social reform on Lhe statue books solves the prob lem. .And, by the way,who wants to carry m·ound a garbage can just to be an idealist? gested that the present ma1•king system of years after graduation I must con- show exceedingly well even for car- themselves. Those students who are already fine my conversat!Gn to the cinema pet-bagger~:~. It appears that those the college is inadequate. Since then we acquainted with Lawrence say that he knows and the butcher. I feel, as an engi- who cast aspersions should perhaps 't' h' h 'f neer, that my group as a whole is pay a little more attention to their have put forth a propOS! l<Jn W lC • 1 · how to get results with football men. Can- equal to Mr. Wassmansdorf on an own status before endeavoring to ad opted, would be fully in accord with the trill, has also had experience directing teams. intellectual basis, and, although the cl'iticize the rest. fountain of lewd obscene thought- M. C. S. needs of modern higher education. Our We have the material for a good team, and. ------------------------- plan was simply this: \Comprehensive examinations should be accompanied by a comprehensive marking system based upon improvement, general in- terest and grasp of subject, as well as mem- ory, individual thought and increased intel- lectual scope. Such measures, on this basis, could be ad.equately reflected by passed with honor, satisfactory and unsatisfactory issued at the completion of the com·se.\ a satisfactory coaching staff. There won't be any excuses next year. None will be needed. STUDENT SELF-EXPRESSION EASY ON THE EYES 000 Here are two epigrams In mem- ory of men who were physi<Jally brave, written some two thousand years apart. The first is by Simon- ides of Ceos: \GG tell the Spartans, thou that passest by, That here obedient to their words we lie.\ The second is by Captain John Smith, in memory Qf \those English gen- The address which l\1r. Long: delivered in tlemen adventurers\ who fell befor-e ~ the Turks in the disastrous rout at daily assembly on Wednesday will be re- Rottenton: \They did what men could do, and when they might do membered for a long time. The applause no more, left there their bodies, in MUSIC by Rankine Hinman Sunday Organ Recital Ode Heroique ......... Cyril Scott Gavatlna . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cyril Scott Vesperale .............. Cyril S<'Ott Over the .Prairie ....... Cyril Scott Berceuse ... . . . . . . . . . . . . Cyril Scott Prelude Solenelle ...... Cyril Scott Serenade ............ , . . . . . . Toselli Invocation ................. 1\!allly Adagio Pathetique ........ Godard I~es Preludes . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . Liszt Liebestraum .... , ............ Uszt We admit that such a plan accorded the speaker at the conclusion of his testimony of their minds.\ address was an indication of how the stu- ooo Good motto for college athletic h teams, written by Euripides for the • * • as many dent body appreciates outspoken comment .Athenians slain in Sicily: \These If there is one number for which rough spots and much overlapping· which on educational affairs from their own ranks. men won eight victories Gver the Dr. Tidmarsh has achieved partic- Syracusans when the favor of the' ular popularity among his Sunday would necessitate explanation by some one · 1\Ir. Long combined both wit and a knowl- gods was equal for- both sides.\ afternoon audiences it is Liszt's better acqual .nted wJ'th the al·t of' 1 ·nstr•Iction edge of the facts about which he spol<e into ooo Speaking of bravery and vio- music for the Freiligrath poem, \O \ lence, would you agree with a Love, while love is thine to give.\ than the editors of this paper. Yet, it is a most interesting speech. Yet, the fact writer in the London Times that CGmmonly referred to as the \Lieb- th t h · h · t t' · t th \the men with the best weapons in- estraum,\ this song is one of three · 'fi t th t a1 b f th f a IS speec was 111 eres mg IS no e fii'ct their ideas upon the world,\ or \Love-Dreams\ which Liszt in a surm can a sever mem ers o e ac- ~ . . . reason that his audience was held spell- would you hold that the men with sub-title called Nocturnes. We use ulty have taken an mterest 111 the proj.ect botind. }{J's mater·I'al \'as 110 t new-but hi's the best ideas ultimately get con- the word \song\ advisedly for, al- ., trol of the weapons? Much depends though the structure of these \Lieb- and have expressed their feelings openly. In method of presenting it was untried before. upon your answer. traums\ is of virtuosic proportions, their highly decorative accompani~ his address at the Block '.U' dinner, Dr. El- The administration welcomes self expression ooo The 1934 prize for unconscious ment and cadenzas do not obscure f humor goes, hands down, to the the simple songs upon which they lery contrasted the athletic field to the class- rom the students as has been exhibited all Englishman who returned from are built. d · th 11 travels in America to write an room on the grounds that there is no mark- ing system on the athletic field, thus show- urmg e co ege year. essay in which he praised \the Like many of Liszt's composi- Th f t th t t d t d t .natural bustle of the .Amel'ican tions, tJ;tis number leav~s the l.is- e ac a S U en S are .expecte 0 woman , tener w1th an overpowermg fascm- 'parrot-back' an instructor's ideas is out- · ation, enveloped in the magnetic ing that he too is opposed to the present ooo Future historians of the Tough spell of the virtuoso who, in his ' ' · worn. The statement 'Too often notes are Twenties will be thankful to Stan- own concerts, exerted an almost grading system of Union and the collegiate· transferred from the pages before the pro- ley Walker of the Herald-Tribune necrGmatic effect upon his listeners. for his \Night Club Era,\ in which His contemporaries regarded him world. fessor to those before the student without one of the heroes is unavoidably a with an enthusiasm little short of · th 1 h h d f · h chap referred to as \dear Harold idolatry; .schoolgirls found in him * Fun with the new catalog- 1. ThGmas Brown, former State Senator at Albany, is listed as \for- mer United States Senator\. That's quite a big leap, even for a poli tician. 2. The field of Art and Music is placed under the Division of Engi- neering. .. 3 .. We've searched the catalog from stem tG stern but ha.ve failed to find anyone \in Charge of the Field of Rellgion\. 4. Under \Method for Numbering Courses\ we find the following: Nos. 1-9 for introductory courses. Nos. 10-19 for courses requiring one year's pre-requisite. Nos. 20-29 for courses requiring two year's pre-requisite. Nos. 30-39 for courses requiring three year's pre-requisite. Bible is listed as course nwnber 56. We assume that a theological semlnru·y training is the pre-requis ite for a study of Bible. .. * We have a \nose thumber\ light on the faculty who doesn't even hesitate to SG salute his \superior' -the man who turned down that invitation to join the Washington brain trust. What discipline!\ * * * .. I. P. Wold is wondering when the winners of the Irish Sweepstakes are to be announced. Will not someone inform him? E. P. U. Notes On Our Contemporaries The Concordiensis has been making a care- passmg roug 1 t e ea s 0 elt er,\ should Russell Ryder.\ <See page 200>. their ideal, and business men, el- f I f t I d b th be regarded as more than a witticism. The 000 Mr. Walker attributes to his bowing their way t? h!s concert College, for Policemen u survey o sys ems emp_ oye y o. er present day educational nJan of American namesake, the unlamented Jimmy platform •. delug~d him m perfect II f tl t Of th th rt P Walker, this definition of a re- go~d faith WI.th the banknotes co eges 0 le coun ry. more an 1 Y colleges demands no more. It does not ask former: \.A guy who rides through which~ were their only form of self colleges covered, not or.e has revealed any- for enou!rh research wor·K and ma]res no al- a sewer in a glass-bottomed boat.\ exp~e,~lon. ~ ~ He quotes also that infinitely wise· L!szt s character ha;> been. the thing startlingly different from the A, B, C, lowances for those who ar.e interested r-emark of Mayor Gaynor to the subJe:t of !1 great variety of Judg- effect that government aims to pre- ment':'. It IS n~t o~r purpose. to as- An advanced pourse in police ad ministration will be given at the University of F!awaii summer- ses sion by August Vollmer, recognized as an 01ltstanding authority throughout the world on police .pro cedure. system which is so prevalent.. enough to delve further into the subject mat- serve \outward order- and decency.\ sess 1t but to .md1ca~e that m the ter than that which is presented in the class- Which explains the doings of lots ~omplex of traits which he emb?d- \' * * Since Union has seen a changed educa- room. of city hall denizens. led IS to be found. the explanation A Chance for Our Dormatoi·y of his marltedly mdlvidual crea- Construction of a new theater for tiona] system designed within her walls. There has b.een n1uch adver·se crl'tl'cl'sm l'n ~t Ohin rept ly ttobnumerouds inquiriels, tlodns .. t;lis slenfttimental nahtulre has . the University of Iowa will begin in I as no ye een ma e a m s- un ema y e an unw o esome . one month, it was announced last within the past year it would be highly fi+ recent months ai'med toward the seri'es of demeanor to publish a movie maga- taint in certain passages of his week It . PWA . . t ~>- zine without a picture of Katharine music as has his love for brilliant · ts a proJec · ting that a changed grading system accom- student speeches given in daily assembly on Hepburn on the cover. display. He is quoted as having * * • 000 Cecil B. de Mille says: \Beer once instl'Ucted a pupil \to wait a So wbat? pany the new mode of education. To rem- the subject \What Union Has Meant to Me.\ has worked havoc with yotJng moment before striking chords The academic standing of frater The · f h T · h b th men's figures.\ With their budget after a run, as if to say, 'How well nity men at Rutgers University is edy the shortcoming in the present marking reason or sue ~rJ ICJsm as een e figures, maybe? I did that.'\ Of greater significance lower than that of the unaffiliated t t th t th d . . t t• · speakers, not the SUbJect matter. Mr. Long 000 It's our guess that Union is the are the immense humanity and ca- ·group, a recent report indicates. sys em we sugges a e a nums ra Ion . . pacity for int · f 1 · h' h ... ... \' . . • made a huge success of his speech and we only college which can boast a fly- . ense ee mg. w .1c · appomt a committee to be · d f ing HonorarY' Chancellor. Dr. Lang- ~ade Liszt susceptible ~o msptra- An Addition to Sigma. Ohi compose 0 m-. hope that Union College students will have muir flies his own plane; and we'll bon from. everything '!hich he ~n- The hairdressers of the nation teres ted members of both the facUlty and the opp· ortunity to hear him again in the certainly be looking up to you this countered, every expenence of hfe, ·have now adopted the famed name spring, Doctor. ev~ry scene of natur and manifes- of Sigma Chi: They have developed the student body. Such a committee could future. IGNOTUS. tahon of human activity fired his • a new coiffure called the Sigma Ch emotions. ·Bob . i ·~ I I ,' ,, I l' I f< I • Ni Defe 6-5, Fifth Unh Me~ By WI Chance. over the team ton were ,gre il:fternoor ball tosse College n inning g Guy Grie game fo1 six scatte probably the Engi going to Pa Gdswo: the first : result fo1 by the P in these hander w him and second b1 dlebury- at first, 1 home on ning Hoe got a sin wistoski, got to fi• Griswold outstretc· play whi perf~ct a nine. B< plate on bury's J pitcher, · play whe first and to ijtretc: Agaip. ir and Whi on a· dot singJe, T scoring f Gax The U working ning wh single to rificed L Middlebt Loomis 1 threw th first Uni Captain fielder, scorchin: third im of the Y4 The bl away il Clark, l ed, midg a sing!• singled 1 walked, field, am in the ~ turn for net bate runs tyi· to deep his seco when he and l'igl walladei who mu and Ca4 The thh when S4 the :Pan s~ .Semer sterling He cove two sta1 been ml batters deep c caught' other w left ftel, made tt route a1 game. Sumn Union Flore, ~ Garriso: Cad wall Semera4 Loomis, Griswol Stevens Dain, s: Clark,: Tota.ll Middl Willian: Hoehn, Zawlsto Barker, Phinne: Stefani1 Bakey, Nash, c Meacha Total: Two-1 cham, l Zawistc GarrisG wold, I Barke!,' ·bal!s~J nlnmti BarKer pitcher· nlng pitcher Time o

ific oa ege of a a a is to of in its en- ac- by is ng ng in is ed I I· I.\ l' I THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRID ... t\Y, APRIL 20, 1934 Thr.ee Nine ·wins; Track, Lacrosse, Tertnis Seasons To Open ~--------~------~----------~ tomorrow in the second match of D ' .. ef.eat M.iddlebur.Y By GJJ:ORGE R. CORY, JR. .Stickmen to Present Strong play. Fraser is slated to .play cen- Tennis Team Is Scheduled To the season but will not make its The ·Garnet trackmen left early At-tack at Hob\ .. 1 Tomoi'I'O'\ ter and Ed Barna, goalie. PI H f d S th first home appearance until one 6 5 I Cl IT'!-}t this morning by bus for camden, \\\- ·• ay · aver or , war more week from. tpday when they will .· · • ~ fi . ose J..l. . ~· J., where they will stay over If Union can win this :game, the face .th eteam from Amherst. 7 ntgh.t, and then go on to Swartho.. outlook for the rest of the season --- Last year on the Garnet's home more College tomorrow to pry the With Captain Chauncey Foote should be favorable. Hobart will Led ·by Captain Ha-rry Chrysler,· courts, Swarthmore defeated Union Fifth Inning. Rally Gives lid off of. the track season. and Bill Fraser as a nucleus, the have a little advantage Saturday, Sam Keats and Jack Moffett the by a score of 5 to 4 in the first · The team .Js very optimistic, but varsity lacrosse team should put up varsity tennis team .is playing its match played between the two col- Union Win in Opener; .has .not .reached. the s-tage of over~ ,having already played two games first encounter of the 1934 season leges in recent years. Haverford Meets Stevens Away confidence. A close examination of a formidable attack against Hobart this spring. The Hobart team open- with Haverford College at the home has not been on the Garnet sched- : the record of the Pennsylvanians at Geneva tomorrow afternoon. AI- ed its seasen April 14 with Penn: of the Pennsylvania racquet wield- ule before and no comparison of : to date gives the Garnet an edge though there ave a number of green Th' f 11 d. ers. Joe Cohen, '36, and George strength can thus be made. f 10 t 1 • · t State. IS contest was 0 owe . Stroebel '35 o·re the other ·mem- By WIL. LIAM E. FER. GUSON ° 0 11 pom s. players on the squad, the team as a c ' ' ~ Twenti•-one on Squad April 18 by a game with ornell, hers of the GaJ:net team. Wednes- OUTING OLUB Chances for a Garnet victory •;y · whole is in excellent condition and over the Stevens Institute baseball Ketz took a squad of 2l·men with which Hobart lost 8-3. day was the first time that Coach There will be a meeting of the team tomorrow at Hoboken, N. J. him, many of them participating capable of presenting ·a strong at- The Hobart line-up will probably Aydelotte's men saw action on the Outing Club sunday afternoon at W . d d in tw:o or three events. tack. be as follows: Johnson at goal, outdoor courts this spring. 2 dclock in Middle Section, South were .greatly enhanced e nes ay charley· Ktuli and Leon Saeiwitz a:fternoon when the Union College will run both the dashes, while Don The lineup will probably include Ehrenfeld and Gilman at points,· The team will face Swa·rthmore College. ~~i~e~:s~r~e h:n6~~dd!~:a~:~d~e~~~~ ':e~~ltr~ ~~! ~~~~t!~ss :0~!. c~i ~~~y~:a::: ~0~~~. ~~:.;a;~::u~:. . r~t ~~:~:~a;~;~:~~~·~no:~~:r:~cb~ • =~=,=m=lll--llll-llll--lll-llll--lll-llll=lll-llll--lll-llll-llll-lll-llll~lll-lll-llll-llll-lll-llll-lll.:...llll-111-llll--lll--llll--:lll:::::llll-lll-llll-llll=lll--lll--:llll--lll=llll=llll=~ inning game on Alexander Field. B_ rockwehl, an. d John Gregory \\11 t = = G G · ld ·t hln · hi's first .,. and Stan Mower, all of whom. have O'Brien and Cl·ark at firs and sec- = = uy rlswo • Pl c g be the half milers, with Bill Kaz- and, Bowden, HaJ:vey, and Cross at == == game for Union held the losers to mierozak, Bob Gottschalk and A. P. been outstanding in practice. On homes. Among the spare::; are .a=: H. t I v c I six scattered hits. Jim LoomiS wHl W. alther~- r•·~-~•_ng the IIU'le. :a::d the d f B b 0 h I D 0 e an u·r er · · . t ~ ~~u · en ense o ppen e m, unc Dickenson, Harter, H. Clark, Tilou, . . . . . · , .·• . . probably climb the mound agams · B.aste. do, ·Gild<> Mirate and Leamon E ·- t G i ld McNab, Clein Sm. lth, Fred Pasquer- ·Shipler; Chasey, O'Pray, and Me- - - the ' ng1neers · omorrow, r swo · Nestle will run the tw~ m1'le even· t. = = t ft d v . ella, and Joe Agius Will probably Caffery. going to lef el • Captain Alec Turner and Bill Panthers Score Early · Waldron will be at their us~al pos- llllllllllilililllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllillill· Griswold was a blt unsteady in itions on the high hurdles, but the =~ · •:• Recognized for Years as Headquarters the first and third Innings and as a tables ll.re expected to be turned,· for Un'IO>:' Students, Alumni, result four of the live runs .gained ·:and Turner should be the first ,,, by the Panther ·])all tea):ll cam,e in Garnet m~ to break the tape. : IT'S PURE! IT'S DEUCIOUS : and Their Friends in these frames, The Union right- Holmes of Swarthmore is expected 1 • ==: bander walked the .ftrst man to :f;ace to be the winner. Joe Milano and • IT'S WHOLESOME II = him and later issued a triple to the Turner Will run the. low hurdles, === • · ·=== ,__ ANNOU-NCE THE.IR NEW second baseman. Barker, the Mid- :with 'Turner again expected to be dlebury right fielder,· was put out the first l:J'nlon man across. Turner Serve Colonial lee Cream at all Social Events at first, the runner on third going .may take th~s race. home on the play. In the third in- . Ga.r.net Jwnpers Favored d E W k II - TAP ROOM ning =·oe_hn, the losers' first ·sacke_ r, Turner and Emory Burton should : an very ee • = · · .. got a ~ingle after two were out. !Za- have- little difficulty with the high •: c 1 e 1 :. wistoski, Panther second baseman, jump.. Swarthmore's best is about got to first a nd ·too·k second w. hen 5 feet 8 inches. The pole vault will • 0 0 n 1 a . - Alth h N AI d p I · h B ·•: . .· . . ·: · oug ew . • • rea y opu ar Griswold threw wide of Clark's be -In c arge of urton and Mal outstretched hand. This is the one Grjffing. :. :. • •• Delicious Food and Refreshing play whic):l marred an otherwise Btlrton, Griffing and Dick Wood- perfect afternoon for the Garnet ruff will·be the Union broad. jum- ICE CREAM Beverages ..• At Moderates Prices nine. Both runners crossed the .pers, while Milano, Naguszewski, plate on a single by Barker, Middle- Krullt . and! Waldron will all take·=. :. . TRULY SCHENECTADY'S BEST bury's right fielder and relief par m the shot. There is a sure pitcher, who was .out on the same first for the Garnet in this event. : THERE JS A DEALER NEARBY : = play when .he was caught between Nag, Phd! Little and Milano will • R = ;;;;;;;;; ~;s~t:~~hs~~~ngl~f\~~oha~in~o;;~f~ ~!~v~!i! ~~lc~~~o~~h~a v~:f~~t :1 BB BIIIRB a • 1 BliiBI • 1 •• a • •• B IBIIIBI • B B B B ••• RIB I I • R :, iffiillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ Agaip. in the fifth inning a Biue and White runner crossed the plate. • • on a double to left field and a 7 7 sing!e; T):lis completed Middlebury's scoring for the afternoon. Garnet Scores in Fourtb, The Union offense did not get working well until the fourth in- ning when Loomis got a dean single to center field, Griswold sac- rificed Loomis to second and the Middlebury first haseman let Loomis go home when he over- threw third base. This was not the first Union hit of the afternoon, as Captain Garrison, Garnet right . fielder, managed to drive out a scorching single to right :ll,eld in the - third inning for the first Union hit· of the year. The big guns really started firing · away in the fifth inning when Clark, Union first baseman, walk-· ed, midget \Mike\ Flore put down a single to left field, Semerad singled after two were out, Loomis walked, Griswold doubled to center field, and three runs came in. Again in the sixth inning things took a turn for the better when the Gar- net batsmen slugged in two more runs tying the score. D'ain tripled to deep center fteld. Mike Fiore got his second hit of the afternoon when he doubled between center and right field, scoring Daln. Cad- wallader hit one- to the short stop who muffed the ball, Fiore scoring and Cadwallader staying on ftrst. The third out of the :frame came when Semerad flied out to Bakey, the Panther left fielder. Semerad Stars in Field Semerad in center field played a sterling game fr>r the Union team. He covered every l;lall and· made . two startling catches that, had they been missed, would have given the batters easy doubles. One was In · deep center fl.eld which Ralph caught over his shoulder and the other was deep between center and left field. The alert center fiel!}er made this catch via the shoe string. route and it was the last out of the game. Summary: Union- AB R HPOA E Flore, 2b .. .. .. • .. 5 2 2 4. 1 0 Garrison, r:f ...... 5 1 1 1 0 o· Cadwallader, 3b . , 4 0 1 1 3 0 Semer~d, cf .. , • .. 3 1 1 5 0 0 Loomis, If . . . . . • . . 3 1 2 3 0 0 Griswold, p •. , . .. 3 0 1 2 3 1 Stevenson, c .. , • .. 4 0 0 1 1 0 Dain, ss , •.. , . , • , . 4 1 1 1 4 0 Clark, lb . . . . . . . . . 2 0 0 9 0 0 Totals .......... 33 6 9 27 12 1 Middlebury- AB R H PO A E Williams, cf . .. . .. 3 1 0 3 0 1 Hoehn, ib . . . . . . . . 4 1 1 6 1 0 Zawistosl!;\, 2b .... 4 2 2 3 0 0 Barker, ·rf-p, ...... 3 0 1 0 1 0 Phinney, ss . . . . . . . 4 0 0 0 3 1 Stefaniak, p-rf . . . 3 0 0 3 1 0 Bakey, If • . . • . . . . . 4 0 1 2 0 0 Nash, c ........ , . 3. 0 0 5 1. 0 Meacham, Sb . , . . . 3 1 1 2 2 2 Totals , ......... 31 5 6 24 9 4 Two-brule hits-Griswold, Mea- cham, Fiore. Three-base hits-Dain, Zawistoski. Stolen bases-Loomis, Garrison. Soorifice-Ciark, Gris• wold. Struck out.;..,.By ~tefaniak, 3; Barke~, 1; Gtilsw.old, 1. .Bases on bal!s~By Griswold, 2 In nine In- nings; Stefaniak, 3 in five Innings; Barlter, 0 in four innings. Hit by pitcher-Griswoli) (Stefaniak). Win- . nlng pitcher_,.:G,riswcild; . _losing pitcher, .. Barker. Umpir€-'-Connolly, Time of game-1 hour and 40 min. Monday Wednesday Satur~ 9 o'clock in tlte evening Columbia Stations Coast to Coast _we hope you{/ e'!J\oy it We always try to make Chesterfields as good a cigarette as Science at:t¢1 :tnoney can make them- in the hope that people ~ill enjoy smoking them. _may we ash you to ''Y @) 1934, ltOOI!Tl' & MYllllS TOIIACCO Co.

Four - ON ALEXANDER FIELD By GEORGE R. CORY, JR. Union Should Win Without Trouble Here is the way that Master Mind Kctz and his assistant Master Mind, yours truly, figure the trac~ meet with Swarthmore tomorrow. Event Union Swarthni.ore 100 yard dash . . . . 3 6 220 yard dash .... 1 8 440 yard dash . . . . 1 8 880 yard run . . . . . 8 1 Mile run . . . . . . . . . 9 0 2 mrle run , ....... 9 0 120 high hurdles .. 4 5 220 low hurdles ... 3 6 Shot put . , ....... 6 3 Discus ........... 6 3 Javelin ........... 4 5 Pole vault ........ 4 5 High jump . . . . . . . 8 1 Broad jump . . . . . . 4 5 Totals ..... , .... 70 56 Ill ... * There will be no apologies forth- coming if all this is entirely wrong; b\l)t seriously it is hard to see how the Garnet can possibly lose. We may be wrong in the pole vault, the broad jump and the low hurdles, but the rest should run true to form. * .. * Heard at the Ball Game \They got you too,\ roared Umpire Connelly at Guy Gl'is- wold after the Garnet pitcher was tagged by the Middlebury second baseman when l1e t1ied to steal ru; :Stevenson was talt- ing a thil·d strilH•. ,\lilt Bt-rger. our new sports editol' remru•ked that Zawisto- ski could hit the ball as far as his name. Stefaniak, the Pan- ther bm·It>a· for the first six frum\s oJ' ~;o looked at least thirty. These veterans do have difficulty. • * .. Some Facts About One of Our New Line Coaches The following information has come in cancer ning Cecil Edwards Cantnll, Jr., one of the !me coaches: liP eats like a horse loves Ken- tuckr Ham and beaten biscUltS- mun<'IH·,. <11} shredded wheat dur- ing hH odd moments. He hao; almost forgiven the North f,>t wmnmg the Civil War--He tall\:t; m h1s sleep--He smokes cJgaJs- So dues Brll Ketz, but Elll- ott Hatfield doe:;n t hke the weed m anv form. car{ulil pronu~es to be one of the few football coaches who doe,;n 't wear a baseball cap w1th the bill tm ned up in front. He 1s <1 pu;lllcal a:; \\ell as an athletic .,tJatPgl:;t. Ilt b oll.,pC'ded of liguling out J 11~, \\lth a ,;!ide rule, but he says ttM t th<· only difference between football and engmeenng rs that 'The\· both \I' a< h you to take 1 t.\ * IJa(•ntl't.~fl'·? 1'.-•·haJ'\ dun't l<now as nHI<'h nhnut thf\ gamf\ as I Ghnuld, hut it dol's not Jool{ as if thE' i'ninn ~ti<'knwn arE' going to hf' \\ h11t thi~ yE<nr. ThPir dP- ff'n\f\ is Wf'al<. and thf\rE' arE< not u-. n1an~ \ l't.PI'nns nn thf\ ~;quad , . ., midlt ht> dt·sired. INTRAMURAL LEAGUES Results RasP hall Sr~n'' C'hi 30, Thf'tn. Nu Epsilon R: Rot'l ThN'l p, n. Alpha Delta Phi 4: Kappa Alpha 8, Theta Delta <'hi fl· Deltrt TTp~ilnn Hi Phi S1gma I lrlta X At Your Dealer's Store or PHONE 4-3121 Call Ball Fer better and quicker Service lD Clothe:~ Cleaning and Shoe RebuUd- lng-at no higher cost than olso- where. ONE DAY SERVICE ANY DA'J!' .. , THE CONCORDIENS!S, FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1934 Alpha Delta Phi 14, Sigma Phi 0; Chi Psi 37, Theta Delta Chi 4; Delta Chi 23, Phi Sigma Delta 12; Sigma Chi 14, Phi Delta Theta 21. Kappa Nu 11, Theta Nu Epsilon 2; Beta Theta Pi 17, Delta Phi 3; Alpha Phi Delta 7, Delta Upsilon 2; Psi Upsilon 21, Kappa Alpha 9. Horseshoes Delta Phi defeated Theta Delta Chi, 21-16, 21-19; Alpha Phi Delta won over Delta Chi, 21-8, 21-9; Lambda Chi .Alpha downed K·appa Nu, 11-21, 21-10, 21-10; Alpha Phi Delta defeated Delta Phi, 21-7, 21-1; Kappa Nu won over Theta Nu Ep- silon, 21-20, 21-16. Lambda Chi Alpha ibeltt Phi Gamma Delta, 2(}-21, 21-19, 21-20; Delta Upsilon defeated P.hl Sigma Delta, 21-8, 21-12; Beta Theta Pi won over Phi Gamma Delta, 21-117, 21-16; Delta Upsilon won over Delta Chi, (default); Theta Nu Epsilor. Copmght 1984, The Ainerican Tobacco Company. beat Sigma Chi, 17-21, 21-8, 21-20; Long Blames and Pra1\ses Chi Psi beat Delta Phi, .21-17, 21-13. Union Educational System Schedule- Baseball Monday Noon-Theta. Nu Epsi- lon-Phi Delta Theta; Sigma Phi- Beta Theta Pi; Chi Psi-Kappa :A.lpha; Delta Chi-Delta Ups1lon. Tuesday Noon-Sigma Chi-Kappa Nu; Alpha Delta Phi-Delta Phi; Theta Delta Chi-Psi Upsilon; Phi Sigma Delta-Alpha Phi Delta. Horseshoos (Continued from Page 1) the good universities. With the ex- ception of the library the facilities are adequate to the needs of the most discriminating student. There is here at Union a wholesome bal- ance of the extra-curricular with the curricular activities. Ample op- portunity for development is offer- ed students of every taste whether this be athletics, journalism, dram- Monday Noon-Theta Delta Chi- atics, music, or debating. And since Delta Chi; Delta Upsilon-Phi Delta at least 50 per cent of a college edu- Theta; Sigma Chi-Lambda Chi cation is acquired outside the class- Alpha; Kappa Nu-Beta Theta Pi; room, these features are of great Neutrals-Phi Gamma Delta. importance. Then too, a college of Tuesday Noon-Theta Delta Chi- this size-certainly more exclusive Alpha Phi Delta; Chi Psi-Phi Delta, than the mass production plants Theta:; Delta Phi-Phi Sigma Delta; known as universities--offers an op- Kappa Sigma-Neutrals; Theta Nu portunity for the student to come Epsilon-Beta Theta Pi, into more intimate contact with the faculty. This is healthy for both ing together in harmony with his professor and student. From the fellow beings. This opportunity is social standpoint, Union is unsur- provided by the fraternities here. passed. The fraternity is one of the True, ihe fraternities are undemo- greatest assets of the college. No cratic institutions, but this, I be- man is truly educated or cultuved lieve, is a virtue rather than an until he has learned the art of liv- evil.\ ONLY THE BEST IS GOOD. ENOUGH BRANDHORST P'HARMACY \On the Corner 11 Union Street and Gillespie Reg. Phar. Reg. Phar. Edward H. Brandhorst, leland E. Brandhorst, LUCKIES ARE ALL .. WAYS KIND TO YOUR THROAT ~~L.uckies are made of only the dean center leaves- the mildest, best-tasting tobaccos. .And then, 'It's toasted' for \It's toasted\ throat protection. Every Lucky Strike is V Luckies are all·ways kind to your throat ~ round, firm, fully packed- no loose ends. That's why Luclcies 'keep in con- dition'- do not dry out. Luckies are always in all-ways kind to your throat. '' -- 1 .1. ~~~ Lo~ Em] Net f OveJ • .1----· Vol. Lv ProJ Play~ Cit~ Willard Had In 1 Le~ Succesf Pop AI thou maestro play op· in a bat Prom, .II only dui musical childhoo Born: he was violinist, teacher. a sense in life. able to better tJ violin, I and by playing concert vania. Howe' realizati music c tunity so it wa ed. at 1 vania in some e] chestra Durin dergrad sh.are o ever, in with hi: the pre of the~; he ente School: to enla1 Before Alexanc dance 1 ern par York. In FE ceived when 1:: new Cr phia's f tel. Ft came t cess, d peared night c Jersey Pierre Shelbot !antic ~ cess, 1 ahead • In tb fected and st. meteor the Ea varied tivated has pl make c bers U melodic one mE Ce:!SiOD all ban Unlo Willar< debuta Washil with tl: to Cor person the e music. in yeaJ while him OI the r. SMAR AIR.\ Dr. 1 Gues· PJ:ee w!ll b1 lar dir Aesoci sors t at 7 • Club. The fe:>sor ogy d1 speecl: of Sci

his is be- an f ' ' i r l. l I I ' i ! I I I> ! -~··-··-·-·II: .1 ·.1 Scholarships, Loans, and 1 ;Employment · l Net Students J Over $70,000 1 t • • J ~---·---~··; Vol LVII., No. 51 Prom Orchestra Played at Atlantic City, Philadelphia Willard Alexander Musicians Had Meteoric !Rise in .Fame In Nation's Large Cities Led Band at College UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, APRN~ 24,1934 FERA Workers Get Paid; Earn $1500 In Two Months After working over two months at various jobs around the campus, the eighty-three students who are employed under the Federai Emer- gency Relief Association received their first pay checks this week. The pay.ron covered the months of February and March and reached a total of $1,519.24. Over $1,200 of this sum was for March. The Individual checks ranged from one to twenty dollars and were is- . sued by the Department of Audit CALENDAR Tonight Chess Club Meeting, Kappa 7:30. Jobs, Scholarships, Nu, .. And Student Loans . Amount to $72,814 German Club Meeting, Silliman Hall, 7:30. French Club Meeting, Silliman · Hall, 7 :30. Tomorrow Daily Assembly, Prof. E. S. C. Smith. Y. M. C. A. Meeting, Silliman Hall, 2:30. Student Council Meeting, North College, 7:30. Agencies of College Taxed to Utmost to Give Students . Employment, Financial Aid Odd Jobs for 217 and Control at Albany. Success Came ShQl'tly After Thursday P 0 PUla r at Washl 'ngtou S Daily Assembly, Thursday Musi- Bureau Has Helped Many Get Work, Miss Travis Reports . . . • peers Advocates cal Club. Thursday Musical Club Concert, • TO LEAD SONGSTERS ........... - ....... .. Don't Miss Glee Club Concert and Dance Next Friday Night PRICE FIVE CENTS Tidmarsh to Direct Glee Club Concert This Friday Night Union's Organist and Choral Director Has Gained Wide Recognition for Glee Club Recitals Broadcasted Popular Series Played Over National Radio Networks Although Willard Alexander, Posi\tive Reali·s· m> Memorial Chapel, 8:il0. maestro of the orchestra that will · ' · : · ' · · Annual Meeting of American As- play opposite Fletcher Henderson sociation of University profes- Editol\s Note-This article is in a battle .of music at the Junior sors. Fri\'~y reprinted from the New York Prom, May 11, has risen to fame Life of Jesus Points Toward ..- Ti only during the past few years, his Constructive Approaches to • Daily Assembly, Dr. E. A. Tid- mes for Swulay, Aprll 22. By MILTON M. ENZER Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, who will conduct the Glee Club in a concert Friday night at the Mohawl> Golf . Club, has gained a wide reputatiOn both as an organiot and as a choral musical talent dates back to his marsh's Music. The Student Employment Bureau childhood days. Individuality and Realism Glee Club Concert and Dance is an important .factor in maintain- Born at Bloomsburg, Pa., in 1907, Mohawk Golf Club, 8:30 p. m. · ing the normal enrollment despite he was. the son of a well known Tennis, Union vs. Amherst at the increased financial worries of violinist, bandmaster, and music \Originality and reality are two Schenectady. students. In her report to Dean . teacher. Consequently, he developed goals toward which all men seem Charles F. F. Garis, Miss Frances a sense of musi.c appreciation early to· wish to direct their path of life,\ Travis, who is in charge of thiS in life. At the age of ten he was .said Reverend T. C. Speers of N } Edd w •11 work, reveals that 217 of the 830 able to play four instruments with Utica in introducing llis sermon de- e son . y I students on the campus have been bettex· .than tl::\e .ordinary skill. The livered in Memorial Chapel Sunday. Be G·uest· SO} O• 1 S t aided in getting empfoyment which violin, however, was his favorite For some reason every man feels will yield them $26,914 income for and by his fourteenth year he was that to live a worth while life he this year. ' playing classical selections on the ·must ·be different from his fellow In addition to jobs, the Dean's concert stage of eastern Pennsyl- creatures. In attaining these de- Popular Baritone Will Leave office has issued 190 loans to stu- vani·a. sirable aims, hpwever, men too oft- dents, payable within five years However, he soon came to the en form an unhappy choice of pro- For Hollywood Soon After after completion of formal educa- realization that popular dance ·cedure, and, losing the proper pros- M · I C tion, totaling $17,500, also 120 schol- music offered the greatest oppor- pective, they leave the way which USica oncert Thut·sday arships yielding a total of $26,900, tunity for financial success. And 'grows narrower as the goal draws and the State has issued $1,600 in :;o it was that when he matriculat- :nearer. scholarships .to 16 students. Thus DR. ELMER A. TIDMARSH Liberal Attitude Explained by Cory Retired Editor Shows Value of Administration's Toler~ ance of Student Criticism ed at the_ Univevsity of Pennsyl- · The life of Jesus, which no one Nelson Eddy, tall, blond, and good . a total of 326 scholarships or loans vania in 192~, he already had gained 'will deny shows individuality and looking baritone whose vigorous amounting to $45,900 have been is- · some expenence as a youthful or- ,realism, seems to point toward the style has become especially popular \ued this year to Union students. chestra leader. ,adoption of a positive rather than witht male audiences will be the The $72,814 received by the Union . t' h t th . gues soloist with the Thursday students from employment, loans or George R. Cory, Jr., reHr ededitor- Entered La\' School 'a nega !Ve approac 0 eGe vu- Musi al Club h' h · · M in h'ef f Th C d' · k. ·~ :tue.s. The usual attitude of mt.n is c w IC smgs m em- scholarships, has been one of the -c 1 0 · e oncor JensJs, spo e During his four years as an un- .negative; they try to be individual- orial Chapel Thursday evening at chief reasons why many boys were in daily assembly this morning on dergraduate he devoted the greater · istic by doing anything which is 8:30· o'clock. The Thursday Club, a able to continue their studies this the attitude of the administration share of his time to studies. How- contrary to what everyone else chorus of women's voices under the . year. In addition to this sum there during the past year as regards the ever, in his spare time he worked does. The reason for the children of direction of Dr. Tidmarsh, gives ·are many students who have per- participation of students in the edu- with his orchestra until it became .agnostic parents joining an ortho- one major concert each year and . sonal!y obtained jobs which are cational work of the college. In in- the premier collegiate dance-band d h h th . h . has a:lways brought soloists of un· . not recorded officially. traducing the speaker, Dr. Erlward · ox c urc , or e reverse, IS t eu· usually high cal'b A · th t Ellery stated that Union has '•en of the university. In the fall of 1930 desire to show that they can stand v. v re. s Jn e pas u~ he t ~r d th p 1 · La students will be admitted for fifty Bureau Sectires Odd Jobs fortunate in having thoughtf•JI en c e e ennsy vama w on their own feet. A great number School and at the same time began of the more extreme political cents. The biggest project of the year minded upperclassmen who were to enlarge his orchestral activities. groups do not adopt radical doc-· Mr. Eddy, who had a minor roll undertaken by the employment bu- able to do this work. Before long the name of Willard trines ;;o much through firm belief in \Dancing Lady,\ is reported to real.l is the providing of off-campus Cory pointed out that the criti- Alexander was known for superb .ar:. through the desire to be origin- have passed his screen tests with jobs whereby boys could work for cisms that The Concordien,;is has dance music throughout the east- al, the whole fault of such action an unusual perfection and is leav- board, room rent, or monetary in- made of the faculty during the past ern parts of Pennsylvania and New lies in the fact that their true ob- ing for Hollywood shortly after this come. To effect this goal, care wa.s year has not been prompted by any York. jectlves are not reached. Their non- concert for his first leading screen taken not to obtain such work personal prejudice. He also added In February 1931 Alexander re- f 't roll. In addition to several solo which\should be given to men long that it would have been impossible . d . , t , ·con orm1 y is mere shallow pre- u h 'll · •th th Cl b f k for the paper to.· conduct ~. uch a ce1ve h1s firs big opportunity, tense; they show the .Jack of rea- gro ps e Wl smg WI e u out 6 wor or to men with fam- ., when he was chosen to open the son of obstinate children, who cut in the most outstanding number of i!ies.'' The first step taken was the campaign had it not been for the new Crystal Ballroom of Philadel- themselves off from their playmates the evening, \Phyra the Fair\ .by creation of an \odd job depart- liberal attitude of the admiuistra- phia's .fashionable Ritz-Carlton Ho- in attempted individuality. William Lester. This exceedingly ment\ to which 500 home-makers in tion. tel. Following this engagement dramatic portion of \The Saga of Schenectady and vicinity were in- By way of contrast, the sp€'aker came two years of continued sue- Positive Attitude King Olaf\ is being sung, it is be- vited to apply for boys to do odd told of two colleges where the edi- cess, during which time he ap- True individuality and reality lieved, for the first time in Schenec- jobs about their homes. This cam- tors of publications were trying to peare!l. at the !~ding hotels and may only be reached by a positive tady. paign has already resulted in the work with their hands tied and as night clubs of Philadelphia and the attitude. This method of procedure, The Chorus, which has always department receiving 138 oalls for a result the whole morale of the Jersey COllost, including the Roof Rev. Speers likened to a seed done very excellent work, is un- boys to do such work a.s wall and college was 'going stale.' Cory con- Pierre and the fashionable Hotel which .reaches out on every side fox usually well balanced this year. window washing, painting, garden- .eluded his address by stating that Sbelbourne. on. the boardwalk, At- substances and support. Unlike the They have acquired more altos and ing, minding children, acting as the aggressiveness of The Con-::or- lantic City. But with all this sue- negative thinkers who prefer isola- second sopranos and, what is quite butler or doorman at social func- diensis of the past year which has cess, his greatest triumphs lay tlo:il, those with the \positive atti- remarkable, have a large second tions, general cleaning, and night been tolerated by the administra- ahead of him. tude\ draw out their originality alto section which in one spot on (Continued on Page 4) tion has done zriuch to raise the director. For seven years he has di- .rected the choir, and undei· hls ::;upervision the Glee Club ha::> won first place and three t1me:J ~;econd· place in the ::>tate conte::>t for musl- cal clubs. In the national glee club contest the Union Ringer::> placed fifth. In lhe Glee Club concert sched- uled for this week, Dr. Tidmarsh has iacluded a wide variety of ll.IUS- ical entertainment. The songs of the Glee Club will be interspersed with baritone solos by Herbert Haw;~er, ;;tudent leader of the club, selections by the college string quartet, and a comedy in which the vocal quartet will be featured. The concert will be concluded by col- lege songs with the audience par- ticipating. The rest of the evening will be given oyer to dancing. Dr. Tidmarsh is a pupil of Mar- cel Dupre and Marie Widor, both well-known French organists and composers. His work in the college has been so outstanding that last June he was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Music. This year he has served on the common repertoire committee of the Associated Glee Clubs of America to choose the music that is to be recommended to member clubs. Be- sides his activities in connection with Union College, Dr. Tidma:rsh i::l the conductor of ;;uch well-known choral group\ as the Troy Vocal Society, the Schenectady Schubert Clu.b, the Albany Monday Musical Club, the Pqughkeepsie Euterbe Ciu·b, and the Kmg:Jton Mendei:Jsohn Club. Recitals Broadcast His organ recitals in the Memor- ial Chapel each Sunday afternoon have won him wide-spread recogni- tion. Last year he gave a popular serie::; which were broadcast by the National Broadca.sting Company over a national network and re::;ult- ed in the reception of hundreds of appreciatory letter::; from enthu::;ias- tic listeners. The choir, which also broadcasts weekly over a national radio network, has arou:Jed much favorable comment and ha::; earned for D•r. Tidman>h the reputation of Cluwged Style In the fall of 1933, Alexander ef- fected a few changes in personnel and style. The result has been a meteoric rise to fame throughout the East. The orchestra, with its varied rhythms and styles has cap- tivated young and old wherever he has played. The hot tunes that make one whirl; soft, dreamy num- bers that bring a thrill; and rich melodious orchestrations that make one niarvel, flow in an endless suc- ce:lsion from this most unusual of all bands. S d • h S ..1 L •k TT. a splendid choral director. from within ,by making contacts the program take an E fiat. morale of the undergraduates. with the people around them and The program is quite varied and enriching their own lives through unusual in that the last group will living in sympathy and harmony be given by the guest artist. This with their fellow men. is expected .to form a fitting climax, we lS tuuent l esunionCampus For Alwnnl Fund Union is fortunate in securing Willard Alexander. This idol of the debutantes from Tuxedo Park to. Washington. is equally as popular with the college students from Duke to Cornell and Syracuse. From all persons who have heard him come the enthusiastic praises of his music. \The finest music we've had in years\ is the universal comment; while those who have listened to him on the radio, say he truly has the right to his slogan \THE SMARTEST MUSIC ON THE AIR.\ ---or---- Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox to Be Guest of Assoc. of Professors PJ:esident-elect Dixon Ryan Fox will be guest of honor at the regu- lar dinner meeting of the American Association of University Profes• sora to be held ',['hursday evening at 7 o'clock at the Mohawk Golf Club. The principal speaker will :Pe Pro- fe::>sor E. S. C. Smith of the Geol- ogy department. The subject of his speech will be \The Inter-relation of Sciences.\ This will be the third annual ap- Rev. Speers also emphasized the .particularly because Mr. Eddy is necessity for appreciating that very liberal with encores. The Program But '11Z..z·n l,.s EU\~\~'()~neans Stud'\' u ,,J pear?-nCe of the Glee Club for the ~It I~ • I '.1:' . . . 'J £.l.Uruer benefit of the scholarship fund of the local alumni. The proceeds of which people have done in the pa:;~t ·Invocation to st. cecilia •. , Harris as being the basis for building up Flower of Dreams ...•..... Clokey our civilization to its preGent state. Twenty-hlighteen ....... J.'olk Hong Did you notice a very blonde girl very happy. We do not have much on the campus last weelt, dressed. social life in Sweden universities, in black, with a smile that made but every spring the houses, each you look twice? Had you known of which represents some province, her better, she might have proved hold a dance, and we go from one different from most girls who visit to another until the sun rises. We our college in the spring time. You sing many songs and have a gay would have found that she really time. Perhaps your prom is some- liked to walk, that she didn't under- thing like that.\ Because the principles of religion, Love and Music . . . . . . . . . . Pu<'inni politics and economics are not .per- A gnus De-i · · • · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · Bizet feet is no reason for them to ·be dis- Blue Bird · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Stanford 1-'hyra the !!'air •....•• , .•... Lester carded as worthless. \Modern in- A Motmlight .Song ........ Ca.<! man· ventions are not contriJbutions of By a Bend in the Hiver .. F.dward\ the twentieth century •but of twenty Rprlng · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · Hildaeh centuries\ said Rev. Speers. Only The Thursday Club Biteroif . . . .. . . .. . . .. . .. . .. . . Wolf by use of the accumulated know!- Am Ufer ties Slu..,es ....... Jensen edge of the :past can true indivld-: Lied an Meinen Sohn .. R. Straus\ stand much slang, and that she \When I was a guest at one of danced with more grace than the your fraternity houses I was much average girl on an American dance pleased with the songs that were floor. sung a.Lter dinner. I did not think uality and originality •be acquired. Danse MaC'abrP ....... Raint-RaPn>< La Maison Grise . . . . . . . . Messager 'Formal,' New Magazine, Makes Offer to Students (Special to the Ooncordlensis) All student writers, poets, humor- ists and cartoonists are invited by FormaJ, the new monthly ml!.ga- zine for fraternity men to be pub- lished early this Fall, to submit their work for consideration. .A:ll manuscripts accepted will be paid for on date of publication at a rate based on the merit of the ma- terial which bec.omes the property of the publisher, Forinal Publishing Compa,ny, 505 Fifth Avenue, New York City. Undergraduates wishing to act as camp\lS sales representatives for this new magazine of interest to fraternity men on a liberal com- mission basis, are requested to get in touch with the publishers. In most cases, there is only one repre- sentative to a school, BaJlad of Adamasor . . • . Meyerbeer Sigh No M0re Ladies .... Warlock Journey':,; Eud . . . . . . . . . . . . R\''\\ll Serenade ............... Carpenter Nelson Eddy Hamlin to Be Faculty Adviso1· for Radio Club Had you asked her about Union, in Americ-a you !lad time for such she would have said, \Oh I like it things. But the·n, America is a finer very .much. Your college is 'beau- place than most of us in Europe tiful, all set apart like a world by imagine, where everyone thinks you itself. But it is quite different do nothing over here but rush after from Sweden. We do not ·have such money. I do laugh, though, when a fine campus, nor athletic fields. I everywhere I go there is \the big- do not understand how you in gest building in the world,\ or the The coUege radio club at a re- America have time to study, you \tallest tower,\ or. the \bluest lake\ cent meeting held in .the radio work so hard on activities. Swedish or .the \largest .prison.\ America room of the Electrical Engi- students do not have \football ends in \est.\ neering building, decided to ·hold shoulders,\ but I .think maybe they Perhaps she would tell you of the its meetings every Thursday noon learn more.\ football game in the West where, for the convenience of the members. If you had talked with her longer not understanding what happened It wae announced that Dr. Hamlin you would have discovered that she on the field, she watched the shout- of the E. E. department wou1d act· was on her way back to Stockholm ing, jeering crowd, the hand- as faculty adtviSor for the club in. after a term's work in Chicago, springing cheer leaders, the 13Creain- place of Dr. Thatcher of the Phy- that she spoke English even better ing band, and . thought everyone sics departmerut, who recently re- than you, that she liked the frank- must be crazy! Or she might speak signed ·because of Insufficient time ness of Americans and their friend- of the time she toid a Juniot· to devote to the club's activities. Dr. Hrumlin is a Union alumnus of liness, but that she much preferred League about Sweden, and the first the class of '26 artdl was president Swedish music to the jazz of this question they asked was \how do of the radio club which existed country, which seemed like nothing you treat your men over there?\ Wlhile he was a student here. The but rhythm. ·American giris, she thinks, are very present radio club was oi'ga:ilized \If I could stay for your prom,\ attre.cUve, but much too sophisti- Jast year and now has ten Ucensedi she might add, lest you get the cated. About the boys- it wouldn't a.ma.teur oper111tors as· members. wrong impression, \I should be be fair to print that! the affair will pay the tuition of some Schenectady boy yet to be chosen. A special price has been set for students. Tickets ,1re on Bale at the coi!ege News Bureau. - --- --.0---- \Get Interested in Work,\ Ligon's Advice to Seniors \Choose. a work that intcrc:;ts you more than anything else possibly can and devote your life to it\- with these words of advice Dr. Er- nest Ligon, professor of psychol- ogy, speaking in assembly last Sat- urday, bade farewell to the class of 19il4. \In one respect at least, the pro- fessors at Union excel in their work,\ Dr. Ligon explained, \With- out any exception that I lmow of, every one of them is more interest• ed in the subject he is teaching than In anything else. I can con- ceive of nothing more fascinating than psychology--the study of men's mind~. It sel'm~ to me that everyone would derive value from a course in psychology. I have no doubt:J that every other teacher in t.he school feels the same way alilout the subject he teaches. \Consequently my 1!'1-St words to you seniors is to find a life·Wo1k, throw yourself into it, and then go along minding your own business.

.. , Two ~irnsis \A. OauBa Persa Parol8 A.a8ai\ FouNDED 1877 ~ssodate~. @otl~~,l~te 1 ~h·em:s -= 19J) '..!_1~0~~~~\.9 ·1914 ;- The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Offi(Je, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 . Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents. a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in tho United States. Editor-ial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communications to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi Psi Lodge, Union College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Kat.zberg ..... , ..... Business Manager Donald B. Moulton ........... Managing Editor Joseph A. Woolman .............. News E~tor Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor Thornton W. Whipple .... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. An<lereon R. North A. Stevenson v. Gdlbert V. Trumbull Issue Editors: V. Trumbull, R. North Reporters Centributing to This Issue F. Feldman W. Ferguson M. Bedell R. Passenger TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1934 THE CONOOR.DIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1934 is in charge of t.he :field of music .and it is .·II II··· needless to say that he :fills a place of high F A R ·~. A G 0 distinction in the hearts of the students of t=;==;;;:====;,:;;;;===~==========o;;;;;!! MUSlC by Rankine Hinman Union. He is one of the few men who can' Panorama; Ball team hot, Loomis: l •.tQ be decrie<J, ·but' it palpably on fire, Tennis team~a couple of• offers little spiritual nourish•· appear time and again upon the chancel at bad days. Ketznien hefty with, the' ment to the 'art-artist,' to quote weights, swell on the jumps, strong· a I•ecent mayor of New York. 'Students who attend the Glee daily assembly exet·cise;; and each time re.,. •in: the distances; feeble so fa.r in the;. A certuirl kind;of a,rt it feeds Club concert Friday evening will . . I t' &prints. Lacrosse-but why bl;'ilig adm.iraJ:i\y: And it naturally hear one of the most popular pro- cetve a 1 uge ova lOll. if up; 5 to 1 lead at the half: Hnal get:;; the art it ·feeds-the imma- grams that the Club has offered in The work of those connected with the score 7 to 6; now, boys! cula.te bank clerk in campus seveval years. This statement should • *' * clothes, the sy1pmdike appari- not be misconstrued, however, for graduate council often goes by unnoticed. Prorn coming up: Adios to a Hon in the porcelain tub, the the work of .the group is on the ·young fortune-:a:Jl for an evenhig beach party in the classy car~ sa.me high standard which Dr. Tid- It is the function of this department to ll;eep wi~li a gill;. Gaw,nt faces of exan1s the art ot the advertisement marsh has set in the past. \Short- pee!'ing around the eves. Those bar- g-enerally. And this ideal also nin· Bread,\ for eXample is a very the alumni in teres ted in the affairs of the bi,ngets of .cerebral constipation-· Hnd.\l its authentic expression in . difficult number to sing artistically, term papers. Biggest ache and pa:in the cheap heroiclS and shallow altho].lgh it is· an exceedingly en- • college. Sy continually contacting the alumni -the emptiness of a jobless future., idealisms of the moving picture, joyable and humoro\IS negro song. th · t · h · t t · th l Just chasing up ·bl1nd alleys while and the potpourri of dubious It is full of characteristic disson- ey mam mn eJ'tOUlr · m eres m · . e cu '- h ~ June edges· closer and closer. music and eloquonce over the ances .t at melt into comfort~ble lege to send worthy material to the college.. * • * radio. These are our represent- harmonies, of syncopations that P. W, th.e Great took a heavy ativ arts, as sculpture was the possess an irresistible rhythm. It is This work never ceases. rap in Friday's In the l\'lait 0 why. l'epresentative art of Greece, or in its nuances of rhythm that should the spirit of mortal •be pa!nting of Florence. \Shortnin' Bread\ becomes a very We have pointed out only a few o.f the proud. ;!ie will shoot his mouth off, · * ,.. * ·taxing song. wUI he? Well, as Caesar used to Glee Club to Repeat \Chalita\ instances where the college has 'Ul1$Ullg, sa.y·, the big·ger they are the harder Far ·be it from me to play critic to fellow columnists-God knows Two unusually popular numbers champions'. There are many others and we they dro.p. Quite unavoidably, But- the: Farrago brand of hogwash. is are being repeated from last year's · le.r; of '37, tb,e squirt who dared at- bad enough-but why can't Mr; program, the ex:oti.cally beautif~l wish to use this medium to express our ap.,. tack, unba:red a few little idiosyn- InchweH come clean and give us sf:'renade, \Chalita and br. Tid- ·crasies ·of his own-all iri the pro- the lowdown on some of his darkly- marsh~s arrangement of \Home on cesE! of laying low the mighty. One mirrored hints. After all, we're only the :f!,ange.\ \Chalita\ is a warm, shoul<j, oe so careful about t)ioae . . things. Those self-conscious phras- college boys, Let him have mercy romantic piece with rich harmonies es i·eveal so much-\folitJ.tairi .of on his audience. and in the Spanish vein, a song of lewd obscene thought,\ \the Fath- • • * · dreamy days, s·oft voices, and gui- • er .of Our Country was an en\'- Th . t' k f E PI _ , tars strummed under a silver moon .,. . e em.gma .lC crac: s o . ur by a coral sea. preciation of these people. AN EV.ENING'S ENTERTAINMENT . neer,\ etc. Beware, m'lad, or we'll thus Unum ~Ill be mterpreted by Two cowboy songs are on the pro- . have you in a cla.ss with flannel.._ ~r: Bronne1 for _,a n~~.~nal fee- gram, both arranged by Dr. Tid- mouth Towneley, Scotia's bulwark History repeat~. itself, the nose- marsh for the Club. \The Last Th Gl Cl b . 11 k 't f' t l l of the American Constil;utio.n. t~umber, et alu. T~e above-men-. Round-up\ from last year's Ziegfeld e ee . U Wl rna e 1 S ll'S OCa ap~ • • .. tlo~ed Mr. Br-onner w r~ported as \F<Illies\ is one of th emost artistic pearance in .several months on Friday night_. Freshman Helm has a style as saymg that he. wouldnt Jet any .of ,the many cowboy metaphores of mature and pithy as any Senior on. loosehe~d of an . FERA mark~r death a:p.d Heaven. \Home on the when it gives its concert at the Mohawk the campus-or Junior or Sopho- touch hiS papers. Vtve le Bronner. Ra,nge,\ familiar to all Union stu- . more. Chick Stro·bel cleaned up · oio \' * • dents, was first given wide popular- Golf Club. It is significant to note that the both l;lis sillgles matches on the This was a favorite with the late ity several years ago by John Char- Haverford-Swa;rtJ:more trip. Les Dr. Jones; \The dog came ibound· les Thomas. forthcoming appearance of the college song- Long pulled a flymg wedge number ing down the path emitting whelps The Club has added \All in an t · f th b fit f' th h 1 h' all by him~elf at the Neutral 'at every bound.\ Some clean-cut April. Ev. ening\ :to the regular pro- S ers IS or e ene 0 e SC 0 ars lp l?awty· he figured he pretty darn · · • ; . · . ;guy made away with Dean Garis' 'gram which it has been giving this fund which annually enables one Schenec- tady boy to attend Union. The entire evening is going to be, .strictly speaking, a Union College affair. Members of the Glee Club are drawn from the four well had the rlg'ht to. g~t ba~k mto coat and hat while he was attenc;'i- year. The lovely floating melodies the hB;ll, even. after Wishmg his stub ing· a meeting of the Schenectady · of this number will form a desir- on chi~ler Mitchell.. . Board of Education. Probably ~ome able contrast to the ·robust strength FC!r¥\tve me fo~ shdmg yo_u a ,not- poor High School pedagogue whose ·of the other two religious numbers too-JUICy portrait of us; I~debted salary had .been sliced about five of the. OJ:lening group. to Mr. Frank Jewett Mather. times; loo~ like a put-up job to ., • • Thursday Club Concert What is in America our ac- me-the price one pays for serving Theodore Paxon, accompanist for cepted vision of the good life? the public, and stuff like that. Nelson Eddy who appears with the UNSUNG CHAMPIONS classes as are the members of the string For upon it must rest our art. • • \' Thur:sday Club this week, is the What do we all agree to (sav- For no. good reason; (this is r,ot only pianist whom we have ever ing always negliglble minorities .my brain-child) , heard who memorizes all his ac- of 'knockers')? I fear it would · The Ba,bes in the Woods were companiments. One critic has ac- Union, just like so many other colleges, quartet and the performers in the comedy · has a number of men and women who are skit. Later in the evening a dance will be toiling at theh· tasks faithfully and seldom held-these dances have always been a suc- cmsh the headlines. Such people do not re- cess in the past and Friday's affair prom- sent this fact for they are of a modest type. ises to continue the tradition. come to these few articles of : lost. They cried. claimed him as .the finest accom- faith:-to make a lot of money They wandered around boohoo- panist New York has heard in by fair means; to spend it gen- ing; many seasons. He is, indeed, the erously; to he friendly; to move They finally turned up their toes finest we have heard in Schenec- fast; to die with one's •boots on. , and died; tady. This is a credo which has :with- Now what were the Boy Scouts in its limitations positive mer- doing? its, and it is by no means lightly J.P. R. Middlesex Notes Just what sort of work do these people do It is the duty of students of this college ~~!:;:;;' :;•h:;;;:a:.~~~:g~elfare of an in- ::::Po~~~~·.:~~;~~·:~h:~:~:~ ~~:~:~;: l,ll======L=e~t=t~e=r~s~t=o=t~b;;;, =e=E=d=it=o~r=====;;;];;;;;;;!.l ~~~~~{i~~:~;;~~~~~f-i~~ffi~ It is a known fact that a number of men the guidauce of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, one - Richmond's admonition to those f th t I tl f It A Unpl .easant Surpi·l·se he withhold his conclusions until who leave Union contests. early o e mos popu ar men on 1e · acu y. · when ou t am · 1 · \N Oll the faculty are engaged ill research WOrk. • ' • he has learned from intimate ex- r e IS OSmg- ever f t t t d th I perience the value of the two. For leave the field, boys, while Union Is But, to the majority, it is unknown that this ehw Issues ago 1 was s a e In ese co umns Dear EditOL·; the rest of us, I know that many be-hind.\ So the Professor held on t at the musical clubs along with the It was with a little surprise that have seen the fraternity as it is; let grimly and faithfully, and sure research work is a seemingly endless task . . I read in Friday's issue of the Con- them decide its value for them- enough, we did win. He also re- Mountebanks and student publicatiOns are cordiensis the letter of Vaden But- seives. I shall, therefore, limit my quested that a mention be made in and until results are accomplished, nothing . . ler which attaclted the \idol\ as a criticism of Mr. Long's speech to this \rotten\ column that he would outstandmg at this college. Their reputa- \fountain of lewd obscene thought.\ his rather determined political prin- like to have the scoreboard show can be said through the medium of the press Variety, of course, is the s,pice of ciples. balls and strilres and outs as well tions have been widely spread and have life, and a literary publication can It is unfortunate that we should as runs and innings. Satisfied, Ol' speech. The men on the faculty now who are actively engaged in such work are bound to open up new fields in their own particular interests and when announce- ment of such work is made, it is safe to say that these men will bring renown among intellectual fields to Union. Many members of the faculty are not sat- isfied with their courses as they now are pre- sented to the undergraduates. Such is as it should be. The average man on the faculty carries a teaching schedule of twelve hours. Besides this he has papers to read and cor- rect. Yet, as every instructor should feel, he must keep himself up to date in his own field so that he can impart his knowledge to the students studying under him. Many undergraduates do not realize that such is the case and pass comment on faculty mem- bers as 'having a soft life.' Another important college function which has g-rown to an eminent position since the beginning of the world-wide depression is the student employment bureau. Many un- dergraduates would not be able to continue their studies if it were not for the efforts of the person in charge of this work. Else- where in this issue appears a detailed article of just what has been done in the matter of securing employment for students of this colleg-e. There is one man on the faculty who has brought art to this college. The gentleman brought distinction to our Alma Mater. Considering that Friday evening will give the opportunity tu observe the abilities of one of the college's outstanding undergrad- uate functions in addition to suppol'ting a worthy cause, at the small charge of seventy-five cents for students or one dollar a couple, it seems evident that the evening's concert should be royally supported by the undergraduates. CONCORDIENSIS FEATURES not devote all its efforts to the turn- hear in this country condemnation Friedriech? ing out of intricate articles on of the democratic form of govern- • • * labor, literature, or phallic symbol- ment. It is not strange, however, The Facu1ty Women's tea Friday ism. There must be a little human that it should be forthcoming at afternoon wen.t along in mellow interest in such a magazine. Hence this particular time, when misery i:s fashion. Perhaps the students don't the jolly little love stories and love so widespread and progress so com- rate tea; anyway, the invited sen- essays, if one can call them such. pletely impeded by our economic iors are stuffed on ice cream and The Schenectady Gazette has a!- distress. Man naturally criticizes cookies, both of which tasted like ready fulminated about the \neu- anyone and anything that attempts more even aft~r t~e ~econd helping. rotics of the idol Board,\ but Vaden improvement and fails to be a pan- One of our .more vigorous profs Butler's letter seems rather unjust. acea; and, further, he recognizes a told me that one of :the chief marks After all, obscenity is today what thing as being totally good or bad. of an educated person was a sense tomorrow will call perfectly proper. Certainly democracy has met wi.th of humor. Young me·n are usually It was once obscene for a woman no great success during the recent savage, ruthless, and excitable. And to lift her dresses above her ankles. crisis, yet particularly in England also stupidly dull. A s·ense of hu- Now it is not only proper but de- it has realized a <Condition superior mor comes with age and experience. manded. to that in any government in the Young men can laugh at jokes, As ·to lewdness, nothing ct\l:l. be right. But one who severely believes. but they cannot laugh at the ordi- lewd. It is only the effect }}roduced that individual liberty can be at- nary events that occur during the that can ·be called thus. tained only under a dictator has day. They are unreasoningly bor- J. c. D. failed to observe the recent political ing, or indifferent blockheads. ---.a-~-- and social events that have occur- There are those who poke fun, R M L ' S h red in Europe. and usually most can laugh back. Toward the end of ea:ch college year the (l · 1'. ·ong S peec No Freedom in Europe So in order to make life a bit editors of this newspaper begin to thinlt of There is no necessity to exert happier, one can s.tart in reading t h I t f 11 W h April 18, 1934. ourselves greatly in determining New Yorker and: Vanity Fair, and e VO ume ·o 0 ow. e ave stated be- Dear Editor: the amount of individual freedom pretty soon, who knows, one will be fore that it is our policy to publish, as nearly To<> often when one is recognized that exists in Italy and Germany. able to chuckle, as they chuckle, at 'b for his intellect and ability, all that In Italy there are but two types of all those great serious things that as POSSl le, the kind of features which are he speaks is ac(Jepted without criti• !People, Fascists a.nd non-Fascists. ordinary humanity considers oh so most agr.eeable to the students of the col- cisru, without hesitation. This is The latter are completely suppress~ very serious-menacingly serious. 1 particularly true when much .that ed; the former can express them- P. W. ege. :he says is an ex:pl'ession of his audi- selves only within the Fascist mold. In order to make certain just which kind ence; and only one or two of his In other words there is only the am mistaken. Perhaps he believes comm~tments are individua:l preju- sing!~, conventional Fascist in Italy, there exists the right for every man of columns are the most popular with the diceS that are so skillfully enmesh- existing, as the Duce himself would to express. himself completely and undergraduates, we should like to hear from ed within the rest that they remain put it, for the glorification of Italy. without regard for his fellow men. unchallenged. The identical situation e~is.ts in Perhaps he believes ,that any man you in letter form, not necessarily for pub- Mr. Long's rarewell address In Germany wirth even a les~;~ civilized is naturally endowed wit4 the privi- 1' t' · t h t t• t chapel this morning was far above :PurP_OS~. lege of crushing his fellow men, to Ica IOn, Jus W a your sen Imen S are re- the norm of our student speakers. W:Ifun~ the las~ three m<>nths lib- use them as stepping stones to his garding the different features which now No one present in assembly .today ,erahsm m Austria has vanished so glorification. Perhaps he believes exist in The COilCOrdl'ensi·s. could doubt its efficacy as a stim- swiftly and com~letely that today that any man may use his brethren ulus to the emotions of the student only the last vestiges of democracy as the necessary (lannon-fodder that Several weel{S ago we published the re- body. During his statement of what . r7main. The new organic constitu- satisfies his desdi'e for power. If Union College has meant t() him he •bon returns to the medieval poll- this is his belief I can offer no al- sults of the questionnaire which was held in led us through the entire structure ,tical concept whereby the govern- ternative to dictatorship. These daily assembly on February 21. Since then of our society, and at the close of ment and the president derive their ideas are the very negation of civ- ten rttinutes left s·tanding but two power fro~ . God; and in rf:ha past ilized •action and: of the employment we have added two columns, E Pluribus of its manifestations-the intellect- this authonty has offered a broad of reas~>n in ;the solution of our Unum, and Oh I Heard. It would be of con- ual fraternity and the enlightened ·S9ope of activity, with few limita- problems. The dictator must resort didator, each of whieh terms is hons upon the personal ambitions to force because he too fails in his siderabl.e value to the editors of this paper s~lf-contradictory-. · of the divinely-appointed one. attempw ~t reason. to know how these are regarded along- with Wh~~aternity tand Dic,~tafl-?r Liberty Not Defined ti!h~fe £1r.o~o~g~, i~~~l~~.ranl.relti'ba: th . : . .:c~er OJ,'JP-O ·the !ratermt11;_<and In a.ttackh:1g democracy Mr. Lon t e other features, namely Farragd, Ran~· the di~tator are two o'f Mr. LOng's made no attem,._j. to defi.ne. I\ndivi'd~ er Y· Many of us believe thrut W:i.th- d u;nattamable g al r d t 1 1-'• out economic independence,· with- om Observations Easy on the Eyes Mid-'·t .. \*;. ho s... o !lo rnow:·. ual1iberty. I hav!il assumed, that _9. ut.at l()ast a reduction in . .the pres- ' • , 1 ·am <l~,.\t'\ n, OWJIVt:;r, .:l;b,a,t he ,has .. he refers to\the .1,tenets- Of out con-· dlesex Notes, and Music. ·' ' ' .~.~pert~c~d \tl:ie bf~~~Ip.gs 9f neither; :stltqt1()nl sucl;l .as .f·l'eedom 'of ent ¢~onomia inequality, there can of them. To him, l: suggest ihait speech, etc. It is .possible.· '-\n.·t r· be il.tdivicl:u~ libel.ity ~01' only a few. .......... (Continued on Page 4:) ,sw(] For Pole V Recc Capt By Gl Althoug about th' team whi1 f·rom its swarthmc prospects track vicl bright. Tl witn Unh be obta:i mances. The fac score in t much to' stances Tom Ca~ team is o lege tipriJ hi::; two better tb other har bothered the resul: give him Union w sprints tl .Breal The ou Emory I Leon Na: College r two Gar• the form by E. s~ Griffing'~ has ever done twe times. Be six. Na:g shot put inches b~ more is record a1 Cap tail ficulty t low hurd reputed topper ill Garnet 1 had the In the 1 ten feet N~?ithe any trou for first feet 8. The h~ a walk more ne1 The G: very wei an imp! with feVI The su 120-yar1 Turner. 1 l~ uion; tl: Time, 16 100-yar, Sv.arthnH Swurthmc ·i::lwarth·m( Mile ru Union; S{ third, Be 4 :48 1-5. HO-yan Swartltml Swarthm1 Time. 53 tihot p1 ,;k!, Unio Jllhll l'rt: htt'ltes; t' feet, 7 in 2~0-yar Turner, l H -~;LIth n1< Time, 26 Two-m• llnion; (Inion; t Time 10 Pole v llarris, S r\nion; ~ 12 feet. High j ner, Uni' r~et 8 i: Swarthm ,. ~iscus~ Lmon, 1~ :\1llano, l i'hli Litt 220-yar Swa1'thm Swartllm Swa.rthm 880-yar web!, U l'nion • t 2:07:V,: nr()ad Cnion, 21 Kelly, S thir-d, M: ~~ 1 ~ inch• J..c\cli!J more, 15: l:nion, 11 Krull, u Grad1 invitati< Wednes ments : tions s {:ents, 1 five cen When g' niittee afterno1 on the J:

ro- in ble f~l on ies of of an in is in ell se be n. js is s- i I THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1934 ThiJee ,Swarthmore Is Easy Victim To Assist Coach Hatfield Next Year Nine Wins From Stevens, 5•4, For Garnet Trackmen, 81-45 ···'·'··· Loomis Allowing Three Hits Pole Vault and Shot Put HobartDefeatsTen Rec01·ds Fall as Union Captures Field Events. In Overtime Game By GEORGE R. CORY,. JR. Although little win be known about the WiUiams CoHege . track · team which meets the Garnet, fresh from its 81 to 45 victory o:V.er swarthmore, this coming Saturday,· Varsity Lacrossemen Hold 5-!l. Lead at Half; Stein Features in Genevan Rally prospects for the second Union The varsity lacrosse team traveled track victory of the season appear to Geneva Saturday only to be de- bright. The Purple opens i.ts se<J,son feated in an overtime period by a witn Union, so no information can fighting Hobart squad, 7 to 6. ·be obtained from past perfor- Union's sticltmen held the lead for mances. , three ·quarters and were irt front of The fact that the Garnet did not the home team, 5 to 1, at the end score in the sprints Saturday is not of the first half. much to wony about if the circum- At the start of the final frame, stance,; are considered. Captain. SLein of Hobart, added by the .phe- Tom Casey of the Pennsylvania nomenal pasi:le» of Rich and Clark, team is one of the finest small col- penetrated the Garnet goal for lege sprinters in the country, and three counters. As a result of this hi» two running mate:; were also comeback, the score was tied and better than the average. On the a ten minute overtime period was other hand, Charley Krull had been played in which the Genevans bothered by a bad leg all week with scored the winning goal. the result that Bill Ketz could not Captain Foote was the outstand'- give him all the work he needed. ing player for the visitors, scoring : Union will not be weak in the three of the six: points garnered by :sprints this year. Union. Stein played brilliantly for ; .Break Two Union Records Hobart, his fout• points figuring · The outstanding pel'forma.nces of largely in his team's victory. : ARTHUR C. LAWRENCE Arthur C. Lawrence, outstanding center on Purdue's football team for tile past three seasons, with C. E. Cantrill Jr. of the University of Michigan, will assist Head Coach Elliott Hatfield as line coach during the 1934 season. Emory Burton, Mal Griffing and Hobart (7) Union (6) Leon Naguszewski took two Union G Johnson - ....•...•.... -. Barna College records off the boards. The P Vanormer - .... -. . • . . Waldron two Garnet pole vaulters eclipsed CP Ehrenfeld · · ·- · · · ·- • · · • McNab hero and the Director of Admis- the former record which was held 1D Kenly ............. -. Williams ON ALEXANDER FJELD sion8 at Hamilton: by E. Sadosky, '29, by 374 inches. 2D Clark · · · · · · · · · · • · Oppenheim · : \I want ro come to Hamilton, Griffing's leap was the best that he C D. Prop .... -.. . . . . . . . Frasier and I have good mru•ks and col- has ever done, while Burton ha.s 2A Rich · . · - . · . · • · · · · · · · · - · Elwyn By lege board credits in every- done twelve feet in practice several 1A Stein ... - .............. Taylor GEORGE R CORY JR thing but Latin. I passed that times. Bo-th just missed twelve feet OH Harvey ............ -- Bergman • ' • though, as my record shows.\ six. Na:g broke Ralph Stark's, '31, LH Cross ... - . - ....... --.. . . l''oote \Well then, you will have to shot put record of 40 feet three 'Ihe summary; Hoba;rt-Stein EASY FOR THE GARNET take an examination in Latin\ inches by eight inches. The sopho- 24:00; Stein 30:33; Harvey 34:24; \But I haven't had the sub- more is slated to break the discus Stein 56:50;. Prop 57:21; Stein 57:3!1:; RUNNERS ject for three years.'' record any day now. Harvey 65:45. Union-Bergm:an The track team had very little \That is too bad, but you Captain Alec Turner had little dif\ 12:07; Foote 18:03; Williams 20:40; trouble on Saturday. Bill Ketz is will have t() take an exam in ficulty taking both the high and Foote 48:47. Spares - Hobart, too conservative though, or we the subject;\ low hurdle events. 'Swarthmore was O'Brian, Gilman, McCaffrey, Dewey. would have come a little closer \Who is Hamilton's big reputed to have a strong timber. Union-Honan. Time of quarters- when we predicted the score. Now rival?\ topper in Bill Holmes, but both, the H) minutes; 10 minutes overtime. . if we can get tby Williams this Sat- \Union.\ Garnet captain and Bill Waldron urday, Union will not even come \I'll go there then.\ had the whole race their own way. close to losing a track meet this Well, A. P. now belongs to us, In the lows, Turner was eight or Tennis Cou1·t Rules .year. In fact, I might go so far as and .perhaps it is all for the ten feet ahead of Oliver Pearson. to say that it will •be extremely un- best. There are a few rules up likely if the Garnet loses a meet at Clinton that have to be ob- High Jump Easy Neither Burton or Turner had any 'trouble in the high jump, tying for first at the poor height of 5 feet 8. The half mile ai).d .two mile were a walk away for Union, Swarth- more never having a chance. The Garnet team as a whole did very well, but Coach Ketz looks for an improvement in every event, with few exceptions, Saturday. The summaries: 120-yard high hurdles-Won by Alec Turnet·, Union ; ~econd, Blll \Valdron. l'uion; third, Dill Holmes, Swarthmore. Time, 16 3-5 second:s. JOLJ-yar,l dash-vVon by Tom Casey, :,lv.arth more; second, Marcy Roderick, Swarthmore; third, John Moxey, -::5warthmore. Time !() 3-5 seconds. lVlile run- Won by Bill Kazmierczak, Union; se<'ohd, A. P. Walthers, Union; third, Bob Gottsch.a.lk, Union. Time, 4 :48 1-5, HO-yard dash-\Von bY Dick Worth, Swarll1more; second, Tom Casey, Swarthmore; third, John Hoss, Union. Time, 53 seconds. :>hot put-Won by Le>on XagUtiZ~W­ ,;ki, Union, 40 feet, l1 inohes ; second, John I 'rt:::-.t. S\Vctlthmol'l', 38 fL•ct, 10 1 ,;,: i\ru·hes; third, Charley Kr.ull, Union, 38 feet, 7 inches. 220-yard low hurdles-Won by Alec Turner, Union; second, Oliver Pearson, :::;,.,.,uthmorc; third, Joe Milano, Union. Time, 26 4-5 se<\onds·. Two-mile--Won by Gildo lV!irate, Union; second, Edward Bastedo, (Inion; third, Leahmon Nestle, Union. Time 10 minutes, 59 3-5 seconds. 1. Studen.ts and Faculty only • in three years. served that might have irked A. shall be permitted the use of thl) P. a bit at times. courts. He signed his 11ame William .Au- 2 . .All players MUST wear · gustus Waldoron II in the Wal;t SOMEBODY SAID JIM LOOM18 TENNIS SHOES. (Basketball, ·Whitman register at Camden Fri- WAS .ALL THROUGH and other types of shoes are not day night, but he is better known Hats off to Jim Loomis for acceptable). · to his intimates as \Gus.'' Bill his fine pitching performance. 3. Children of Faculty Mem- spent the two or three days be- Hi d · b · minds m f fore ·the meet tellin-g people that s goo JO re e 0 bers shall ibe permitted the use · what I heard a few days ago of .the courts if any of them are · his \inttrition'' told him that we It seems that when Jim. was at vacant but NEVER to the ex- would lose. He admitted that he Taft he was an invincible pitch- elusion of tile two above named hadn't investigated the matter. but er, but my info:rma.nts said that groups. seemed to have great confidence in the reason was that he was a 4. Doubles should be played his intuition, Bill Ketz took him up, little older than most of the whenever possible so as to in- and Gus spent some of Charlie· prep school boys, and this add- sure use of the courts to the Wald:ron's hard earned money buy- ed to his blinding speed made maximum number of players. ing the Ga!'net mentor cigars. Gus him hard tt> beat. They further 5. If persons are waiting to tells me that his intuition is not stated that as a college pitcher play, both singles and doubles working yet in regard to the Wil- he would never get very far, I matches are to be permitted to Iiams meet, but that he will prob- heard all this only a week ago. finish their set 'before vacating. ably have a statement for publi- Somebody must be wrong. In the event that the set goe;; to cation ·by the time we go to press (!.uece, play shall stop at 6-6. Friday. 6. Play on Sunday shall be re- WHY A P. WALTHERS <JAME stricted ,to the hours between 1 TO UNION and 6 p. m., and all players MUST be dressed in a CLEAN WHITE costume. 7. Workmen engaged in re- pairing or marking the courts are to be pel.\mitted .to complete their task before play can sta:rt. 8. Use of .the indoor court on ,the gyiilD!!l.Sium floor will be re- served for the varsity squad when inclement weather prohib- its their prac.tice outdoors. 9. The caretaker shall be sole judge as to the use of the courts A. P. Walthers looks like a coming star on the track team. A gentleman who hap- pens to be coacll of the U. of P. track team wanted him to come to that institution be- cause he looked so good, but A. P. wanted to go to Hamil- ton. Here is the conversation that took place between our · Delta Chi defeated Delta Chi, 21-12, THANK YOU, SWARTHMORE! Swarthmore College certainly did everything possible to make our stay there as pleasant as possLble. Everything that we wanted was ours· for the asking. The •boys had two meals there, and they are still . talking about them. I stayed over in Narberth with Bill Ferguson, '10, the father of our own little base- ball reporter so I can't tell about the dance that took place Saturday, but ever ody had a g<Jod time, I am told Horseshoes a.fter rainy weather. Pole vault-Tie for first: Edward Harris, Swarthmore; Malcolm Griffing, t'uion; E.mory Burton, Union. I-leight, Tomorrow Non-Theta Delta Chi- 19-21, 21-16. ll\f~;~· jump, Tie for first: Alec Tur- ...... - -- Schedule Delta Upsilon; Delta Chi-Phi Delta ncr, Union; Emory Burton, Union, 5 Theta; Kappa Nu-Sigma Chi; Phi ft:et 8 inches; third, Tom Hallowell, I --- Gamma Delta-Sigma Chi; Lambda s·.varthmore, 5 feet, G inches. INTRA MURAL Baseball Chi .Alpha-Neutrals; Kappa Nu-Phi Discus-·won by Leon Naguszewskl, G D Ita Union, 121 feet, 7¥.! inches; second. Joe Tomorrow Non-Theta Nu Spsi- amma e - .:\lllano, Union, 113 feet, 9 inches; third, ·. LEAGUES . Ion-Lambda Chi .Alpha; Phi Gamma Thursday :Noon-Chi Psi-Delta i'hli Little, Union, 113 feet, %. Inch. 11;=;:;;;;;;===========;;;.!1 :Delta-Beta Theta Pi; Kappa Sigma- U_psilon·, Chi Psi-Phi Delta·, .Alpha 220-yard dash-Won by Tom Casey, \\ K AJ h N tr 1 D Ita Upsi Swarthmore; second. Dicit Worth, appa P a; eu as- · e - Phi Del tar Phi Delta Theta; Beta swarthmore; third, Marcy Rodericl~. Results Ion. Theta Pi-Kappa Sigma; Kappa Nu- Swarthm<:>re. Time, 23 seconds. Thursday Noon-Ph! Delta Theta- Neutrals. 880-yard run-Won by Bill. Brqck~, ·Kappa Nu; Sigma Phi-Delta Phi; wehl, Union; «econd, A. Walthers, Baseball Chi Psi-Psi Upsilon; Delta Chi-Al- Friday Noon-Theta Delta Chi- Union; thi-rd, John Ross, Union. Time bd Al h 5 pha Phi Delta. Phi Sigma. Delta; Delta Phi~Delta --~-----------~ NetmenLose Twice· Ga1·!let Pl~y Er~·orless fol' . . 1 .. First Time Smce 1932; To Pennsy v:amans Captain Ganison Stars 1'ennis 'ream Gives Swarth-. The winning streak of the Union baseball team contin:ued merdly on more· Close Battle After its way Saturday afternoon when Trouncing by Haverford. tht: Garnet nine handed the Stevens ln,;titute ball tos,;ers a 5 to 0 defeat · at Hoboken, N. J. Jim Loomis, Unable to •cope with the well sea• making his 1934 debut, wa:> the win- soned racquet wielders of Haver-· ning hurler. ford and swarthmore, the Gar.net' Loomis seemetl to be in mid-sea- tennis team went down to double sou: form as he .held the Techs down defeat in their first two matches of to only three hits, the first Of which the seasot1 on Friday and Saturday was made by Byste1·, Stevens afternoons, both matches being. catcher, in the sixth inning. Loomis played on foreign c<>urts~ · was steady throughout the game and pitched air-tight ball, allowing Haverford scored a Clear victory· only thi·ee walks. :He 1 eceived ex- by a 5 to 1 margin, Stroebel being: eellent support hom the r.e,;t of the the only Union player to emerge' team wh1ch went the zoute without victorious durin.g the afternoon. a s 1 ngle error. This 1s the first time Playing in the fourth singles: that a Ga1·net team ha~ accomplish- match, he defeated Russell easily, ed this feat since 1!!32 when Clark- 6-2, 6-4. This match marked Stroe- son Tech wa:s v<:wqUlshed -! to 1 in bel's first appearance in intercol-: a game called in the seventh be- legiate competition fo·r the G:arn.et. cause of rain. Garnet Lacl<ed Practice Team on Offensive Coach Aydelotte's men were far The team was on the offeni:live below their best ·form since Friday: from the beginning and took ad van- marked their second day's outdoor: tage of every opportunity for scar- play, Union having been hampered ing, despite the fact .that Crespy, by inclement weather which ren-. Stevens pitching ace, fanned ten dered outdoor play on the home· Union batters. Clark a.nd Fiore ex- courts impossible antil Wednesday. ecuted a double steal. Their performances against Am- Captain Garrison, of the Schenec- herst and Middlebury this coming tady nine, was the heavy hitter for week end will serve as a much bet- the day, collecting three hits out of ter indicator of what can be ex- five times at bat. Semerad, slug- pected C>f them ~or the remainder ging center fielder for the victors, of the season, for by that time they followed Garrison with two hits, will have had a. full week of prac- one of them the only double of the tice <Jn the clay courts. · t th 1 t The contes1 wi-th Swarthmore day, out of four tnps 0 e iP a e. d t b h Cl th the Fiore, Loomis, Griswold, and Clark prove o e mu.c . oser · an G h' · f th tilt with Haverford, the final out- completed arnet . lttmg or .. e come being 4 to a. Stroebel again game, each receiving credit for one safety. repeated his triumph of the Haver- The team will remain idle for the ford contest. Other Union victors week and then tackle the Univer- were Sam Keats and the doubles team of Chrysler and Keats, Last sity of Rochester <Jn Saturday. year the Swarthmore racquet wield- Summary: ers managed to eke out a close vic- UN·ION lo) AB R H PO A E tory from the Ga=et by a 5 to 4 Fiore, 2 b • · · • • · · · · · - · · 4 1 1 S 1 0 Garrison, rf ......... , 6 0 3 3 0 0 margin. Cadwallader, 3b ..... 4 1 0 3 1 0 Union-Haverford summaries: Semera.d, cf .. · ... -· · 4 1 2 4 0 0 Loomis, p ........... , 5 1 1 0 1 0 Slngles-Flaccus, Haverford, defeat- Griswold, lf ••.••..••. 5 0 1 1 0 0 ed Chrysler, 6-0, 6-3; 1\femhard, Haver- Stevenson, c ......... 6 0 0 6 1 0 ford, defeated Keats, 6-1, 6-4; Jones, Dain, ss ............. 3 o 0 1 1 0 Haverford, defeated Cohen, 7-5, 6-2: Clarl{, lb •.••...• , _ •. 2 1 1 7 0 0 Stroebel, Union, defeated Russell, 6-2, Totals . _ ............ 37 5 9 27 5 0 6-4. STEVENS (0) AD R H PO A E Doublcs-Flaccus and Memhard, .b.\'yster c _ ........ , ... 3 o 1 10 1 0 Haverford, defeated Cohen and Stroe- Rollins, lf . _ ...... _ .. 3 0 0 3 0 1 bel, 5-7, 6-3, 6-1; Weightman and Abrahamson, lb , , , , , 4 0 0 5 0 0 Jones, Haverford, defeated Chrysler Moser, cf , , , • , , , , , • , , 4 0 0 0 0 0 and Keats, 7-5, 6-0. Heiles, 3b . . . • . . . . . • . . 3 0 1 0 0 0 Union-Swarthmore summaries: Cincotta, rf .......... 2 0 0 0 0 0 Singles-Hadley. Swarthmore, defeat- Baksa, ss · · · · · · · · ·- · · 3 0 0 4 3 0 ed Chrysler, 6-2, 6-1. Keats, Union, 6 erdee, 2 b · · '· · ·' · · · · 3 g 0 g ~ t defeated Whrte, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. Huston, respy, P · • · • · · · · · • · · 3 1 f d C h 6 3 6 \ Totals .......... , ... 28 0 3 27 9 3 Swarthnwre, dt cate o en, · • -... Two-base hit-::lemeraJ. ::ltulen baseti Stroebel, Union, defeated Hood, 6-3, -Clark, J.<'iore, Garri.ou, Ey.,ter, Rull- 6-3. Macy, Swarthmore, defeated Mof- ins, Heiles. Double play-llaksa to fett, 6-0, 6-3. Verdee to Abrahamson. Hit by pitcher Doubles - Hadley anrl Huston, -lly Crespy (Dain). Struck out-BY Swarthmore, defeated Moffett and Loomis. 4 ; CreBpy, 10. Bases on balls Stroebel, 3-6, 6-3, 6\-1. Chrysler and -By Loomis, 3; Cres{.ty, 5. \\'luning Keats, Union, defeated Macy and pitcher - Loomis. Losing pitcher - Whyte, 4-G, 6-0, 7-5. Crespy. Umpire-Durbarrow, Brook- ---0---- NOTICES FRENCH CLUB ELECTION An important meeting of the French Club will take place this evening at eight o•clock in Silliman · Hall. It will be the final meeting of the semester, and officers will be elected for the following year. 0 LAST DAY Tomorrow will be the last day for taking measurements for caps and gowns. The comnUttee will be at Silliman Hall in the afternoon from 2:30 u.ntil 5 to take orders for both tl:.e rentals and the purchase of gowns. Y.M.~A.A.NNOUNCEMENT The College Christian .Association will meet in Silliman Hall tomor- r<lw aftemoon at 2:30. All students interested in the work of the as- sociation are in.vited to attend. FRESIIlY.IAN NOTICE lyn Poly. Time of game-V'ne hour. 45 minutes. PARK LAUNDRY, INC. Ulo Ollnt~n St. (Labor T&m])le) PHONE 4-~011 Colleg& B undies a Specialty UNION•s OLD STANDBY Our Work and Prices Are Competitive GARNET TAILOR 2 :07'1',. Sigma Chi 8, Lam a P a ; Ch' .A1 h I B ta Th t p·-s· Ch\ Hroad jump-Won by Emory Burton, Kappa Sigma 9, Theta Delta Chi 0 Friday Noon-Lambda 1 P a- Ups lon; e e a 1 1gma 1 i t:n·ion, 20 feet, 4'1. Inches; second, Jim (forfeit); Alpha Delta Phi 11, Phi Kappa Nu; Phi Gamma Delta-Del- Kappa Sigma-Phi Gamma Delta; Kelly, Swarthmore, 20 feet, 2 inches; Gamma Delta 4 ; Neutrals 16, Phi ta Phi; Kappa Sigma-Psi Upsilon; Theta Nu Epsilon-Phi Gamma thir<l, Malcolm Griffing, Union, 19 feet, . Neutrals-Alpha Phi Delta. Delta. .All men who intend to become candida-tes for the Assistant Mana- gership of next year's Fall Sports are requested to report at the of- fice of the Director of Athletics this week. 305 Liberty St. Tel. 4-0122 ft u., inches. Sigma Delta 4. ~;;;;;;~;;;;;;~~~;;;~~=~~~~~~=;;;;~~=~====;a J..c1cliu--\\\ua Ly Jim Kdlr, ;Jwnrth- Phi Delta Theta 21, Theta Nu Ep- more, 158 feet; second, Harold Gallant, siloru 11; Beta Theta Pi 41, Sigma C'nion, 156 feet, 2 inches; fuird; Charley Phi 5;. Chi Psi 26, Kappa Alpha 20; Krull, Union, 149 feet, 11 inches. Delta' Upsjlop. 11, Delta Chi 10. Horseshoes NOTICE TO SENIORS Theta Delta Chi won over Phi .. Delta Theta. (default); Neutrals de-. Graduation announcements and feated Sigma Chi, 21:-5, 21-5; Chi invitations must. be ordered •by Psi beat Dl)lta Chi (default); Lamb- Wednesday, April 25. Announce- d:a Chi Alpha beat Kappa Sigma, ments are t<illll cents ea{lh, invita~ 21-8, 21-14; .Alpha Phi Delta downed tions sixty cents and thirty-five 21-4, 21-8; Beta Theta Pi defeated cents, and personal cards thirty- Kappa Nu, 21-4, ;!1-20. five cents. Orders must be .paid for Phi Delta. Theta beat Delta Up- When given, A member of the com- silon, 21-19, 21-18; Neutrals over- mittee will take orders tomorr<J<w whelmed Phi Gamma DelOO: 21-8, aftemoon from 1:30 to three O'clock 21-6; Lambda Chi Aipha won over on the second floor of Silliman Hall. Sigma Chi, 14-21, 21~3, 21-15; Theta Schenectady's Popular Rendezvous GOLD'S Restaurant- Tap Room- Delicatessen 11 Eiegant Liquid Hardware .. THE CAZETTE PRESS M ru ~ PRUonERS i ··E:::::::::::::::::::::::ii::::::::u::::::::::::::::::::::::::::i:::::::::::::::::::::::~:::;:::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::i::i::::~:;:::::u \C'mout Sometime\ AND SEE OUR MODEL DAIRY FARM AT DUANESBURG PINE GROVE DAIRY TELEPHONE 4-7741 WE OORDIALI.Y ·INVITE OUR CUSTOMERS AND THEIR FRIENDS TO DRIVE OUT AND SEE OUR FARM WHERE WE PRODUCE OlJR OWN GRADE 'A' MILK •

Four Jobs, Student Aids Amount to $72,814 THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1934 Moffett; Delta Phi, John Moffett; Delta Pi Nu, RichM'd Davis; Delta Upsilon, Donald Moulton; Kappa Alpha, Stanley Mower; Kappa Nu, Duncan McNab; Kappa Sigma, Raymond McDowell; Lambda Chi ometer and razzledazzle. ..A razzle- rr======~~~==~~~~ dazz'le is one of those tl1ings that . you wave aroulld to make a squawk-:. ing noise. The bell rings, the stu- Letters to the Editor dent razzledazzles, and YOU get ·•';;;=========;;;;;;;;;===~ home in time for dessert. ·- Alpha, R. McDowell; Phi Delta • • * (Continued from Page l) 'Theta, Richard Davis; Phi Gamma A little display of the fis.tic art <<:;ontinued from Page 2) watchmen at special occasions. The Delta, R. Semerad; Phi Sigma Del- . down on Liber.ty Street, which, by There lS profound <truth in such a boys receive 35 cents per hour. One ta, Donald Moulton; Phi Sigma the way, was well named. He co·uld belief, for it is obvious .that under ·boy was called to watch a priceless. Kappa, Stanley Mower; Psi Upsilon, have done better, but some killjoy an economic system in which the antique e:x\hibit for three nights, John Moffett; Sigma Chi, Ralph put the brakes on. Thence to the private profit motive is dominant, while another ha.<> proved to be such Semerad; Sigma Phi, Stanley Mow- shade of the old Hawthorne ,bee, in which fortune rather tha;n a;bility a good :butler that he has been er; Theta Delta Chi, Charles Dain; where the already lively ac.tion re-· is the chief value, there can be no \booked\ for neJCt year's social Theta Nu EpsHon, Duncan McNab. ceived •additional impetus , .. out. universal equality of o.pportunity. events .. Miss Travis keeps a check * * * But Fascism has no.t curoed the on the demonstrated abilities of the o Here's something for the Econ- profit motive; it has merely .tern- boys sQ that she may furnish \ex- omics Department to work on for pered the dissatisfaction of the perienced help\ to home-makers. OH I HEARD awhile. A lot of worthy seniors are: 'working man. It' remains for dam- Speakers' Bureau Successful troubled with the problem of figur-. ocracy to bring a:bout the necess•ary One of the most novel and inter- ing out .the economic mean between: changes. Such a political system is esting ventures of the Student Em- Now that spring is here, we notice t.he cost of gra:duation invitations· no panaeea. It requires patient and ployment Bureau has had many the good old sixty minute class and probable revenue receivable in intelligent .support. Unfortunately, benefits for .the college in the form cropping up again. SOME OF THE the form of little gifts, such as this has not been forthcoming dur- of good will, helped to develop fur- INSTRUCTORS JUST DON'T watches, roadsters, and bookends. ing the past ther some unusually prepared stu- SEEM TO HEAR THE BELLS * \ * Success of Democracy dents, and at the s•ame time afford- tinkling away merrily, and for them And so I leave you. Time to get, There is no reason to believe that ed a source of income to students we offer the INCHWELL PLAN to work on that contest by which I .the success of democracy d=ends who are \scholarly\-and usually FOR GETTING OUT OFCLASSES hope to get a FREE racing turtle upon the oaltruism of manki:d. 1 hard to place. This is the Student ON TIME, which would have one from FRANK MERRIWELL- : have no faith in such godly ideals Speakers' Bureau. Students recom- student in each class carry a chron- INCHWELL f p mended by professors as being well · · 0 man. eople will not go out of prepared and able .to deliver talks on special subjects, such as current economic problems, historical sub- jects, literature, etc., are listed on a circular sent to the various cultural and service clubs within an area of fifty miles. The students speak for fees ranging from $3 to $5 per lee- · .ture and solve the decreased budget problems of these organimtions. The fact that .the speakers have been invited to speak again in most cases proves the venture a success, it is believed. 81 Work for FERA Under the federal emergency re- lief acts, the employment bureau has ·placed 81 boys at work assist- ing in the library, doing mainten- ance work on grounds and build- ings, assisting in the offices, work- ing on surveying and engineering pr()jects on the camputi, and con- structing special apparatus for the laboratories. The .twenty-two fraternities on the Union campus house more than 60 per cent of the students and also afford splendid all-year jobs to 50 students, who will earn $10,600 this year. The Student Employment Bureau is now busily engaged in helping students find summer jobs. Seniors are personally aided by their individual faculty advisers in securing permanent employment, graduate school admission and graduate scholarships, and profes- sional positions. ---10--- Junior Prom Committee Places Tickets On Sale Ticket;,; for the Junior Prom, May 11 were placed on ~ale 11onday noon by the Junior P10m Commit· tee. Ticl~eb thb y~ar will be the I ;,;ame pr i.ce a,; in previou,; yPnrs; I $6.00 untrl Monday, May 7, and $7.00 1 for the re,;t of the WPf>k. Stag. tickets will be $4.00 at all time~.~ Booth tickets will be $15.00 as be-l fore and may be obtained from the Prom Committee when they visit the fraternity houtie~. Drawings for 1 the variou~ Louth,; will be made on Thursday, May 10. Ticket,; may be obtain·cd a~ fol- lows; Alpha Delta Phi, Duncan ~lcNab; Alpha ~Iu Srgma, R. McDowdl; Al- pha Phi Delta, Rali>h Semerad; Beta Theta Pi, Charles Dain; Chi Psi, Richard Davis; Delta Chi, John their ways to assist others; but less in the appetites of our wiVes they will help others for their own will achieve greater economic inde- benefit. A society in which service pendence and individual liberty and rather than profit is .the motive, in incidentally will perpetuate for a which ability rather than wealth is few more precious years, at least, the supreme. value is n<Jt imposSible the youthful figures among. our of achievement. It will require more women. A democratic state, based faith in democracy and greater sin- upon function and a:biiity rather cerity In our .politica;l structure as a than proflrt and wea.).th-this goal means of attaining such a socially lies more nearly within our reach economic state. Just a little more. than an enlightened dictatorship. interest in government and a little S '34 .. SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY. INC~ 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY. NEWYORK THE NEW DENTISTRY A Phase of Preoetltive Medicine College Men find in it unusual opportunities for a eareer T!it; 1-!~rv~r£1 P11iversity Pe!!t?.l School otfers a competent course of preparation for the dental profession. areAllWays kind to your throat A \Cuss A\ SCHOOL Write /or catalorrue L1roy M. S. Miner. D.M.D., M.D., Dou Dept.27.188 LonQwood Ave., Boston, Mass. ] ....................... . • i : THE FARM : ETHE COUNTRY CLUB= I RESTAURANTS : • • ....................... ; Fro-joy Ice Cream bas been awarded the \Good Housekeep- Ing\ seal of approval. carefully awarded for purity, clea.nllness and quaUty of lngredlenUI. At Your Dealer's Store or PHONE 4-3121 \It's toasted\ so round, so firm, so fully packed-no loose ends that,s why you 'II find Luckies do not dry out We think you'd be impressed if you saw Luckies being made. You'd see those dean, silky center leaves-and you really wouldn't have to be a tobacco expert to know why farmers get higher prices for them. They are the mildest leaves-they taste better. You'd be impressed by Lucky Strike's famous process-\ It's toasted \- designed for your throat protection. And we know that you'll be truly fascinated when you see how Luckies are rolled round and firm, and fully packed with long golden strands of choice tobaccos. That's why Luckies \keep in condition\ -why you'll :find that Luckies do not dry out-an important point to eCZJery smoker. And you' 11 get the full meaning of our statement that Luckies are always in all-ways kind to your throat. V Luckies are all· ways kind to your throat Only the Center Leaves--these are the Mildest Leaves Copyright, 1034. The American Tobacco Company. C<!m A:t I Vol. LV Dr~E Comr Marh Will B~ ProptJ OfMl To S Method: Colle~ A join1 faculty a pointed t begin at ing syste techhical in the U the edUCI The co of Profes chairmall • Coffin, P sky, Pr1 George 1' Clemens A. Waldl bud, '35, In mal the appo this morJ it is desi1 begin its prepared tration c next fall mar.king judgmen tage of ' line witl1 cies. The Cf tern was ial COlUl more th1 then a p all num1 and in 1 formed passed VI a cousre semester will be c along wi at other 'Empt Smith \Tho.u Way tal of space gossame space it dust are Prof esse fessor c emptine: body W sor Smi ancient and the ing the Matte upon as made u emptine and lim seem, h spaces i Altho1 that th• composi of the 1 which other f, that e' emptim much n tain.s er ets whc that a ton. The s mense our an1 pose a verse, 1 stars in evenly be onl;y cubic y Union Edito Jose1 ted rna ian, o Brookl: ated fr of Arte Whil was ac and jo Editor Editor ·bater.

a ch aara••••11• ••••• I Nine Debaters Attending ••• • I Cenference .A:t Colgate ' Today, I Tomo:rrow I • • Dr. Alfred Dip Lum, Chinese Ambassador- At-Large Visits Campus • • • !.....-....-..,. ______ _.J. Vol. LVII., No. 52 Dr~ Ellery Appoints Committee to Study Marking Systems Will Be Prepared tQ Submit Proposals for New System Of Marking Next Semester To Study Other Plans Methods Practiced in Other Colleges to Be Considered A joint committee composed of faculty and students has been ap- pointed by Dr. Edward Ellery to begin at once a study of the mark- ing system as practiced in leading techi:li.cal and academic institutions in the United States in relation to the educational policy of Union. The committee will be composed of Professor William W. Bennett, chairman, Professor Harrison C .. • Coffin, Professor Vladmir Rojan- sky, Professor Russell A. Hall, George R. Cory, Jr. '34, (ex-officio), Clemens F. Hathaway, '35, William A. Waldron, '35, Leonard B. Eisen- bud, '35, and Eugene Emerson, '35. In making the announcement ·of the appointment of this committee this morning, Dr. Ellery stated that it is desired that the committee will begin its study at once and will be prepared to submit to the adminis- tration of the college some time next fall such proposals about the marking system at Union as in its judgment would be to the advan- tage of the undergraduates and. in line witi'l the best educational poli- cies. The campaign for a revised sys- tem was inaugurated in the editor- ial columns of The Concordiensis more than two months ago. Since then a proposal h:as been made that all numerical grades be abolished, and in their place students be in- formed only whether they have passed with honor, passed, or failed a cousre at the termination of the semester. This and other proposals will be conside;red by the committee alo)lg with the methods in practice at other colleges in the country. ---0 --------- UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 27,1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS Graduation Fees Part Of D · U St d t Gl Cl b C t 'V. } •t f L. • ht M B Bndget, Explains Hoadley . ain rges u. en .'' ee· u. ·' oncer '• . e OCI y 0 . ' Ig ' ay e .SupportofUnusual AndDancePlanned. ' . • ' s D w· . l' d In an interview with a Concordi- p f Pr 'F Th. E . Deere· asing ays r 0 ;ensis reporter yesterday Professor rogram or . om·! 'or IS vening . ' ' :' . . . . • '. . Anthony D. Hoadley, bursar of the . · -~ college, explained the disposition of the commencement fee which the' Colol'ful Dance Will Feature seniors have to pay amounting to \Ba.ttle of Musi'c\ Between. the sum of fifteen dollars. This Varied Program Will Include Numerous Solos by Hausser, Quartet, and Comedy Skit Presents Theory Physics Head Explains TheOl'y Of Light as Function of Time at Scientific Meeting money is one of the sources of in- Two Prominent Orchestras '(lOme of the college which is set :aside each year in the budget. There are certain expenses con•' nected with commencement such as .printing of announcements .of ho,n- Oriental Atmosphere String Quartet to Play Unive1·se Not Expanding orary degrees, diplomas, alumni C 11 S luncheon, president's luncheon and Gymnasium to Be Made Over · o ege ongs to Be Sung by Wold's Formula Implies End Of World in 1. 7 Billion Years tea, and like expenses, In addition. Into Japanese Rock Garden Audience After Concert •to this the necessity for additional labor arises and this money must also take care of that item. The customary commencement fee of American colleges ranges between ten and twenty dollars. Professor Hoadley stated that seniors must pay the commence- ment fee at ·his office in the admin- dstration building on May 9, and at no other time. ---0--- Debaters to Attend Colgate Conference Tonight the Glee Club is .making In presenting his· paper concern- \The approach of Prom is rapidly ing the explanatl·on of the facts ·its third annual appearance at a . . nearing and with the thought that which led to the so-called \Theory the price of tickets will increase concert together with a dance at of the Expanding Universe,\ Dr. the Mohawk Golf Club under :the Peter I. Wold, professor of physics from $6.00 up to $7.00 on May 7th, offered Tuesday at the National l urge everyone to consider this re- auspices of the Schenectady .Alumni Academy of Sciences in Washing- ·duction\ sald Charles Dain, • 35 , Association to raise money for a ton, D. C. a formula concerning the scholarship for some Schenectady velocity of light as a function of <lhairman of the Prom committee, time. when interviewed recently,, boy next year. Professor Wold's theory implies , Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, director that the \end of the world\ would The same strains, those of Wil- of the Glee Club, ·has planned a well come in aboue 1,700,00(},000 years . lard Alexander's band that enter- balanced evening. As an interlude At that time the velocity of light tained the debutants from Tuxedo between the various numbers Her- would be zero according to his for- bert F. Hausser, student 1eader and mula, and presumably nothing Park to Washington will be heard soloist, will sing several numbers would be visible, the sunlight would Conference to Discuss. State alongside the melodies of Fletcher and a comedy skit Will be given. not stimulate the vegetable life and Hende:~:son's popular negro orches-. The string quartet, which has had this would also lead to the death of Tax Revision, Publi~ Relief, Utilities, Today, Tomorrow tra two weeks. from tonight, It is remarkable .success for a college or- animals. d ganization, is scheduled to play a Dr. Wold rea his papel' Tuesday fully expected that the dance will number of pieces. The four players Chm\ ese 0 f f 1. c 1. a l morning at one of the sessions of be the most colorful and unusual h the National Academy of Science. of t e group praCitice regularly of· Dr. Wold's paper is entitled \On the As a climax to a successful de- one to be held in many years. their own volition and have acquir- VI.SI•ts Cla .. s s Here Implications of a Variable Velocity bating season, nine members of the d tabl t · f · This year the gym will be a Jap- e a respec e ·reper orre o mu- of Light\ and he speculates on the lPhilomathean Debating Society will ~ic. Their first appearance was implications of the velocity of light travel to Colgate University at anese .garden. The ceiling will have with the Glee Club in February 1932 as a function of time and not of Hamilton, N. Y. today to participate a background of pale blue with a. at the c<;>nce:~:t in the Ritz-Carlton Dr. Lum Makes Prediction position throughout space. with 18 other New Yorlt State col- ~eges in the annual New York State gold ruffling, while the walls will be Hotel, New York City. Since then China Will Be Big Future Explains Spectral Shift iDebaters' Conference on Public Af- draped with delicate shades of pink,. this group has become an !important TJ.·ade Market for America His speculation was found to lead fairs. Dr. L. eon Godshall, secretary part of the Club's activity. The to a very simple exnlanation of the blue, green, white, and gold. The N rt t '11' b bl 1 f \' pf the conference, will accompany ..,. ua · e W1 pro a Y P ay some 0 red-ward shift of spectral lines t . he group. ~raternity booths will consist of the following as their selections: f 1· ht · ff b b 1 Th · Dr. Alfred Dip Lum, Commis- rom 1g given o y ne . u ae. e Three pertinent subjects are be- lattice work, interwoven with green the \Thirteenth Quartette,\ Haydn's sioner of Overseas Affairs of the common explanation of this phe- ing discussed this year: state public vines and flowers. Suspended from allegro moderato from his Opus 77, Republi(} of China and Visiting Pro- nomena is similar to that of an utilities, revision of New York State the ceiling will be three large elec- and Glazonnow's \Interludium in fessor of International Relations at ,auto-horn which iS heard with in- taxation, and state public relief. trlcal balls from which Will run Modo Antico.\ Besides presenting New York University, visited pr. creasing pitch as it approaches the Three plans have been drafted by streamers ·Of japanese lanterns; in· the skit, Mr. Hausser will sing two w. Leon God.shall's class on Inter- listener and then lowering as the the respective committees and will the middle of the floor will be a b.uritone solos, \Nacht und Traume\ national Relations Wednesday car speeds away. According to Dr. :be presented at the maln confer- fountain surrounded by a rock gar- (Night and Dreams) and Koenne- morrung during his stay at the col- Wold's fornmla, light may be grad- ence. The utilities committee is den .. An atmqsphel,'e of spring will mann's \When the King Went lege as the guest of Dr. and Mrs. ually solw.ing down .in velocity, and headed by Milton Schwebel, '34 and pervade to complete the illusion of \Forth to War\. The latter is a God::;hall. He ha:> 'Qeen a JlrofessOI the light that reaches us from neb- includes Seymour Horwitz, '35 and a beautiful garden ball. !>tirring piece, in contrast to Shu- at the University of Hawaii and at ulae has started millions of years Clark Cumniings, '37. The commit- W d b h bert's lovely melod.y. The c;oncert the Hang Chow Christian College ago with a velocity greater than + · • f t tl · t ord was receive . y t e com- th t f I' ht d h ocee on revision o axa on consis s mittee that Fletcher Henderson will be followed by college songs in China. Dr. Lum in his addres::; a o Ig now measure on t e of Thomas Crowley, '34, chairman, · · h h t · d Ch' countr-.• earth 'E t• f S ' 1 · who is now playing in the Grey- with t e audience participating. c arac enze ma as a ·.- • mp 1ness 0 pace s Carl Olson. '36 and Chester Nessel, that is going through daily changes Dr. Wold was followed by Sir S \th' A bl T • '37. The subject of public relief is' stone Ballroom of Detroit will per- Dancing will follow the musical 1 .n 1 .ts educatl·onal, 1 ·ndustrial, and Arthur S. Eddington, a world fa- IDl . S Ssem Y OplC f 't Gl G d h' h 'th th G t G bl' f .being treated by Robert H. Smith, orm oppos1 e en ray an IS · our Wl e arne · o ms, o - political systems. Great changeb mous exponent of the \expanding '34, chairman, John Argersinger, '35 Casa Lorna Orchestra at the IVY ficial Union College dance orches- are made even in one year and the universe\ theory, who spoke on the \Tho.ugh the galaxy Qf the Millty and Francis Townley '37. Ball of hte University of Pennsyl- tra, furnishing the music for the person who traveled in China a \unification of the relativity theory Way takes up llnthlnka·ble amounts Union is laying its plans well and vania in the latter part of May. dancers. A special price has been year ago would ha-rdly recognize an dthe quantum theory.\ Other of space, it is in reality a far flung hopes to have many of its proposals wmard Alexander and his bahd !5et for student admission, one dol- some of the organs of government speakers were Dr. R. A. Millikan, gossamer· whose substance is to the. accepted and incorporated in the were also broadcasting a pr.ogram lar for a cuple and seventy-five and .methods of transportation that and Dr. Arthur H. Compton, Dr. F. space it occupys as a few specks of final accepted plan of each problem. pf .supper music from the Anchor- cents for single adni:ission. Tickets now exist In that country. K. Richtmyer, former professor of dust are to thl ·s aud'l'torium.\ Tl•us There is also a possibility that age Club on East River Drive in can be purchased at t,he News Bur- h I . Chi physics at Union and now dean of U · ill i h · hi f \There were no sc 00 6 tn na the graduo·te s. chool. at c·ornell Un1'- Professor Edwards. c. Smith, pro- a:Ul~~s\f on!~r t~ec !~~~a~~nfm~- Fairmount Pal'k, Philadelphia. eau. a generation ,ago, and most of our versity, introduced Dr. Wold to the fessor of geology illustrated the tees, this, because of the prestige people were forced to engage .priv- mem):lers of the National Academy emptiness of space for the student gained by the fine work at last TT 7l4: f Jso.~·'> D •d D £1 ate tutors if their children were to of Sciences. It is believed tha;t Dr. body Wednesday morning. Profes- year's conference at Syracuse. Union lJ'.J.en 0 . , ~ cUt .L' OUr l..leUtS be educated. Today there ai·e 250,- Wold is the fil'st member of the sor Smith treated in his talk the The delegates of the represented 000 primary schools which have an Union faculty that has presented a ancl 'ent theories of space material enrollment of about 11 000 000 pu Institutions wil.I meet in general as- ~'h a.· d. lJ c • ' - paper before the National Academy. and the new methods of determin- bl 'd . DOr \'ur.nz·ng ez•r ea S n 'l.a:pel pi.ls. There are 3,000 secondary ing the extent and content of space. sem. Y early Fn ay mornmg for :.1..' ~ . .1. I . . . It . schools that accommodate 6,000,000 Cau,sed National Comment Matter, even that which we look opening remarks by the chairman boys and girls and about 100 uni- The paper this morning relates to · and a resume of the questions. upon as solid and substantial, lS :After that the collUllittees will By RICHARD E. PASSENGER versities and colleges.\ certain contributions which Dl'. made up of <t 111.rge proportion o~ \. dont,. among themselves, maJ'ority China is also malting consider- Wold had been making in regard to em . pt1'ness be cont1'nued Even wood \\ .... Stud-ents who chafe at the depart- placed on the rule th.at when meet- · · the s~~-'led theory ·of the expand • · and minority pla:n.s for each. ques- able progress in its transportation ~\\\\ - and limestone, solid though they tion, which will be discussed, voted :ment rules and va:l,'ious minor regu-. ing a college official o1· professor, facilities. 4 (}, 666 miles of highways ing universe. He caused much dis- seem, have many pores and empty upon and. one of which will be lations or today may find consola- all students should show due re- .make travel much easier in central cussion and national comment on spaces in them. adopted at the final general assem- 'tion in the long list of restrictions spect by taking off their hats \in a China especially around Nanking his theordy .otf 1 1ight when he first Although it was once thought bly on Saturday. governing all phases of undergrad- decent manner.\ A fine of six cents. and Shanghai. Bus lines are no announce 1 ast February befO.re that the atom was the 11Itjmate uate life at Union in 1802. The was deemed proper for this social longer uncommon sights in the the American Physical Society in composition of space, the discove:ry ;proper conduct. for students Was ex~ error; A further tegulation pro- principal cities of China. \By 19 36 New York. of the radio active Alpha particles, CALENDAR 'palined in detail, and a fine, which vided that headgear must be re- (Continued on Page 6) ~---a---- which can be used to bombard varied from two to fifty cents in ac- moved in. the classrooms. Members· p d H• 1 other forms of matter, has shown Tonight . cordance with the severity of the of the lowe:~: classes. were required assengel· an InCI{ ey that even the !litOm has much Glee Club Concert, Mohawk pffl)nse, wa.s ·the approved penalty to wait for upperclassmen to pre- Janle. s Cameron '26, Given New Chess Club Officers emptiness in its makeup. There is Golf Club, 8:30 p. m. for disobedience. cede them .into chapel and dining much mot\e proof that matter con- A TUle which would affect most of hall. Fellowship to Columbia tains empty space. There are plan- Tomorrow . the underclassmen of the college, if A provision which most of us ets whose earth is packed so hard D \1 As bl E S Painter · · t t t th t ' l.d till f t d f . h a1 y sem y- ~ . . , applied at presen , s a es a s,u-· wou s approve o o ay or- James All'ster ca·.me1 ·on, who g 1 ·ad- that a cubic inch of it we1g s a ·~4 \Th Work · En· glish at 1 th · f t d b d th 1 • f · 1 • t \ , e m .dents must. teep . e1r aces urne · · a e e p aymg 9 !llUS•ICa ms ru\ uated frc>m Union with the class ton. . Union College\ toward the pulpit during chapel ex- ments during study hours. In that of 1926 , has. been awarded a ct1500 The stars, although there are 1m- Deb. ating Convention a-t Coleate · b 1· ble to four· cent f t t 1 th d'o· h d not \~' mense numbers of them, both in - · erCises or e !a a era, or una e y, e ra 1 a University Fellow;;hip to study the University line. Whispering or ta!king on the been invented to plague the ears of classics at Columb!.a next year. Cam- our and othe.r solar systems, com-· -c .ncrosse--Fr· eshmen vs. Man- · u·t of chapel was pun n · t• tu..., t l·n the dorm P ose a very small part of the uni- ...,.. way m or 0 · - co sclen Jous s uen s - eron, a native of Amstet\dam N. Y., basset H. S., here, 3:45 p. m. ishable with -a fine of no more than itories. received his A. M. from Princeton verse, and if the 100,00(} million· Lacrosse--Union vs. Tufts, here. fift •N b ensure \befo·re · stars in the Milky Way were spread Baseball-Union vs. Rochester, · Y cen..., or Y c Under these minute restrictions in 1927, and returned to Union in evenly through space, there would at Roche.ster · tl)e college.\ - it is easy to account f{)r the numer- . 1928 as an instructor in the depart- be only one molecule to .every few Track-Union vs. Williams at . Students were given no oppor- ous practical jokes of a rude nature ment of classics. cubic yards of space. Williamstown · tunity to sleep comfortably in class,. in which the students. gaye vent to When he was an undergraduate ,_. __ . 0 ___ Tennis-Union vs. Middlebul'y, but we;re required to we~r a \stand-. their repressed emotions. With the here, Cameron was a member of here : ing collar,\ a gray coat and grey advent of Dr. Nott, a new system Phi Gamma Delta and editor-in- Union Graduate Is Associate Golf-Union v:s. Hamilton, at pantaloons. They were not allowed was begun. Students were to con- chief of the 1926 Garnet. After a to smoke a pipe or cigar an.y place duct themselves as gentlemen at all year at· Princeton, he taught at Si. Editor Law SchoolPU!blication Clinton · on the grounds except their own times and the petty rules were done John's College in Annapolis before Joseph Saidel, '33 has bel;ll). elec- ted managing editor of The Justin- ian, offici·al publication of the BrOoklyn Law School. He gradu- ated from Union with the Bachelor of Arts degree. While an undergraduate Saidel was active in dr~matlcs, debating, and journalism. He was Sports Editor of The Concordiensis and Editor of the Inter-Scholastic De- · ·bater. SWlday rooms. Going more than a mile. away with. The facUlty admired. returning to Union. In June, 1932, Chapel-President :g. B. Ogilby. from the college during stqdy hours Dr. Nott's bravecy in taking up a he was nru:ned alternate for the Trinity College was forbidden and special permis- residence next to the dormitories Faculty of Philosophy Fellowship Orga:n recitai-Dr. E. A. 'rid- , . sion was required to go from the and predicted that he would not at Columbia. marsh, Memorial Chapel, 4:00 institution to the city, either for. find it comfortable after the first Last year he cruised the Mediter- P· m. transacting business ol' for the pu:r- .month. The spirit of democracy ranean as a lectw:el' in the classics. pose of diversion. Certain hours and good-fellowship in which he ap- He left Venice as a lecturer in an- Monilay , were set aside for study ai:ld no one proached the students, however, . cient Greek history and archaeol~ League of Evange~ical Studenis · was aiiowed to leave hi'S room after made hitn very popUlar with the ogy, sailed down the coast of Dal- meeting, Room 5 S .. S. S. C; . nine at night. student .body a11d the njlm}ler c:>f. rnatia, around. the ·coast of Gt·eece, 3:30 P· m. That little trllf!t was .placecl in the suspensions· and expulsions de- and through the Aegean islands, re- Philomathe1!-n Society, 014 . manners uf undergraduates may be creased remarkably during his turning home in October of the Chap.el, 7::30 P· m. ·• easily seen from the emphasis presidency. same year. Richard Passenger, '37, was elec- ted president and Charles Hinckley, '36, secretary-treasurer, of the col- lege chess club at a special meeting )leld Wednesday evening at the Kappa Nu house. Passenger suc- ceeds Samuel Simon, '34. The retir- ing president ranks high among chess players of the capitol district and is nO<w a participant in the Tri- County chess tournament. Passen- ger is a member of the German Club, a freshn~an reporter for the Concordiensis, and has been on the Dean's List throughout the year. E:inc1tley has also 'been on the Dean's List. The club was reorganized with some difficulty at the .beginning of the school year and has b(len suc- cessful in carrying out a sizeable program of val'ious chess activities. Matches were played with teams from Saugerties and Kingston, and with the cooperation of the radio club, several matches were broad- cast by short wave. The team a1so succeeded in placing third in the .Schenectady Chei:!S League Tourna- ment in which eight local teams were entered.

Two THE CONCORDI1ENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1934 ;; EASY ON THE EYES the Kappa Alpha lodge is setting a, worth~ ~~·rnJtt• d. example for the t•est of ,Union's fmternities lJ 41 l.l to follow in part, if not completely. The ex- change of dinner invitations between the RAN.DO·M OBSERVATIONS ' ' By S.idney David Markman 000 This paper ought to be re- named the Parthenon,. It has· now almost as many column~ !1-9 a Jreek temple, the First National' J3anl{ of .Peoria, or some of the lJnjon f.rateinity hou~es, \A Causa Per11a ParoliJ .dasai\ FOUNDED Itn.7 ~ssonatr~. e:,y,iutt ~t-t55 .....::;; 19J] I~.!~O~L C:O~ 193 ... e-- The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Pupli.shed Tuesdays and ·Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Ofilce as Second Class Mall Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere ln the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to AI·thur J. Katz berg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communications to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi Psl Lodge, Union College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-In-Chief Arthur J. Ka tzberg ........... Business Manager Donald B. Moulton ........... Managing Editor Joseph A. Woolman ........•..... News Editor Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor Thornton W. Whipple .... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. Anderson R.. North A. Stevenson V. Gilbert V. 'l'rumbull Issue Editors: J. Anderson, A. Stevenson Reporters Contributing to This Issue M. Bedell R. Cohen W. Ferguson C. Garri>;on F. Feldman W. Horstman C. Marshall R. Passenger C. Nessell N. Stewart FRIDAY, APR II~ 27. 1934 WHY KEEP IT? \' * * various houses, both off and on campus, has fallen off to a disgraceful level. The benefits derived hy both hosts and Apologies are her.eby offen~d to know, can quicksand ever be good tho.;e who realized tll.i~ co<tiip.n was hat d stone'? not in la~t. Wrid,ay's, issue; and to And who is there to tell us? 000 You can tell this colu1n.n fro:rn the others (maybe~) by the Sign of the Three GoO-:oe-Eggs (No hits, no ,,uns, no errors), and• the fact .that 1t never gives any credit to tll.at Bailey Hall bul).ble fountain of wit . .1nd wisdom, Professor Br*nn'r. g-uests at such dinners are· many. The most obvious result is more eordial relations among l\rl:lternities-a .sufficient reason for t\lose who, art.er being ·aware of its we leave trnion feeling there i~ absence, nussed .it. '.the word:> or-· nothing tm us to do because all Wl rereu up .1.ot· your ears last week • know is in books' So we take !. were ~s 1s usuat, but one or two ot tumble and hope to land on au. the younget and more ·sensitive edi- !eet like cats, or, let us say, fire- \' * * . · · t Tl . th . 1 b tors accused the harmless meander\ :JOO Punch-drunk is. the only wc:f:rd mv1tmg g-ues s. 1en . ere are severa ene- ings at intent to incite a RACh. men. La. describe t_he way we felt after 'l'he hurling in space excludes thl fits which may not be SO apparent, but are RIOT. mouth lift f10m ear to ear. Rather, :eadh;Ig James M. Cain's. \The Fast- . . . . Being peaceable by nature I had the tongue is pul into the cheek tL .nan Always Rings Twice.\ fhls certamly Important. Both hosts and guests no sucll. intent, a·nd when t.he chiet allow the mind to mull over LII<'E. man Cain has a style that be-ats a . . was not able to find me, thete was,· :iveter for n()isa and .effectiveness. ·may be lifted out of any rut of narrow thmk- theretore, no column. Somebody once said a college edu· . .Vhat a pity tha.t he only ddves cation is nothing without which Wl · ,a.cks with it! are not al:>le to be without. The de- * \ • ing and living into which they may have fallen. Perhaps some of the diners will dis;.. * * BELIEVE IT cover new friends or become better acquaint-. To swim in the Meditenanean fo1 . ed with present classmates, whose common ~~W~{o~~~·a ~de~ea s~J~~~~eP~Y 1~ inte1·ests may make their colleg-e ca1·eer more shme with millions of unknown persons wh(} are skinny and warp- interesting. Others of the guests or hosts ed, not having !:>asked with us in the blaring Italian sun, is .ruinous may learn something· worthwhile or helpful to the appetite. We feel alone a,nd brown like an ebony skinned Afri- about certain courses which they intend to can m Scandinavia. b l · b t For four years some of us have take, 01' a out t 1e msti·uctors .• or a ou some been floating on our backs in the extra-curricular activity. The gene1·al effect, warm blue sea. But now as we are about to get out, we must eithez at least, of such affairs is to strengthen the run tor she1ter into a bush of trail- ing a1·butus or :>it at a desk and colleg·e throug·h better fraternal relations and grow anaemic. d h f For, as the commencement to br-oaden in some egree t e intellect 0 speulter always says, we a1e about the individuals ·present. to be thrown into a larger sea, the Atlantic Ocean for example. Who H · h k h\ h th T can say how far we will go, or ere lS anot er tas w lC e errace whetller we shall talte vefuge in a Council might again take on to make itself safe oyster; and once there, either gl'(}'W into a pearl or a steaming more useful. At present, it strives to improve stew? Some of us will go to the woods socil:ll relations among the undergraduates and walk Indian fashion in a cen- 1 1 d tury old path putting one foot by sponsoring the annua Bock U inner, a ahead of the other. That is like function which has been handled with inter- walking in soft mud because it is traceable ,easy ,and above all, very esting success. Over a month ag-o we sug.. safe. pressing era, dusty and old witl. · talk, not age, gave birth to pithy· lOO Will someoae ldndly w~ke up slogans place<! over adve 1 usm. .he loco.! guardians of ;literature to agency doors and B!oomingdale', ·:.he fact that at least two capable eorset buying department; slogan. 10veiists, the above Mr. Cain and which read-Let No One Not Smell 1lrs. Evelyn Scott, have had homes .ng of ink and Slteepsltill Ente. 11 winter near ::;laratQga, but have Here. 10t been invited to talk inforn~ally u Union students, as tlle:y have· And most of the advertisin~ •lsewhere? agencies have .flow:ns in the recep- cJon rooms. Sometimes we wonder what h ,·eally going on in Macy's basement. 3hall we sit in offices some day twiddle our huge thumbs, an<. organize a Greek class for the un 2mployed while waiting for Mr. Klsh to buzz buzz for us? Is that separating the world intc tiny atoms? Someone pricks a bubble and th, universe goes off into space whet e ,t belongs. Yet we are all made of more aL than a rainbow floth, and be th< universe whete it will, some yean Zrotn now we shall all be walkin5 proudly in t·eunion parades with pink crepe-p .. per caps on our head> and a heat ty hello for guys W! never wanted to know because ol the pimples on their pans during the freshman yea;r. Mellowness always creeps on witl: age like good wine, or even homt made rye left over from last year. 100 Louis Bromfield d~sCl'ibes the our short novels which he has just mblished together ,under the title ·Here Today and Gone TC>ruorrow\ ts about \raffish people,\ and· we 1ea1 tiiy agree. Tn fact 1ve have met ;o many of that sort In novels ately that we a1·e b~ginnlng to ;earn for ~omet-hlng al>out cUl'ates tnd old lace, just for relief. * + ... JOO Reiiab!e ruooot· h.a:th It that Al- Jany is to have a season of f-oreign notion pictures at the Institute of l±istOIY and Art next winter. If so, .JUs expeditions should be organi2ed immediately, and dog-teaiUS used if necessary. Boston has recently ;een two craclterjack •foreign films, one French, \La Fin du: lv.Ionde,'' and one German, \Emil und die De- tektive.\ • ·• * And those of us who at·e about to gested that the Terrace Council apply its put on the tight-rope one hot day in June may feel ourselves about to energy and desires for ameliorating social fall into quicksand and go the way l :y adopting- the rotating system of athle- tic managers last spring the athletic uoard virtuallv made itself extinct. Hitherto the athletir. board elected managers of the sev- eral sports teams and had the power to make athletic awards. Since assistant managers are now elected h\· the ;;ea;;onal numag-ers, the seasonal as- ~istant nuuwgers and the head coaches of the sports in season and the director of ath- letics there is absolutely no reason for hav- ing a group of students, the Dean, the di- rectut· of athletics and a few alumni labeled of all rotten flesh. But the quick- relations to the sponsoring of general college sand may turn into a perfectly good Can we help it th.en when the dl\inks begin to look nicer than om corpulent fronts and l:>ald heads\! We shall always feel the same, NO\ As if it weren't true, YES? What more can we say! dances. Now we su1r1rest that the council ex.; cement walk. that is after a few -- tumbles; but what we wish to ====~~~~------·--------------~---- ercise its influence in whatever way it sees fit to increase the numbr of dinner invita- tions between Union's fmternities. We look for the day when any house which doesn't make it a policy to invite represent- atives from other fraternities to dinner, will be regarded as queer. Week's Best Editorials MUSIC ~ \GRINDS OR HUl\ffiUGS\-? by Today students will have a long 000 One of our favorite novels about this part of the wmld, ••Rome Haul\ by Walter B; Edmonds, has been made into a, play by Marc Connelly and Franlt B. E:lser. ~roadway is to see it before long .Jnder the title of ··Low Er.idge.\ It's tbout the good old canal ·days of .1bout a century a.go.. · * * .. 000 If you think we haven't a track team this year, ponder the c:ornpar- ative returns from the Amherst- Haverford, Ratgers-Lafayette, and Union-Swarthmore :meets. In the first the pole vault was won at 10 .t. 6 in., and in the second at 10 ft. flat! The sh{)t and disc:us tell. some- what the same story. But bewaie the Big Bad Wolf named over-con- fidence! R k • H' awaited chance to express them· u.,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;a;;;;;;;n;;;;;;;m;;;;e==l•n•m•a=n;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;! selves effectively on a hotly debated \-' college problem: Does the Univer· sity require too much academic work'? as the 'Athletic Boa1·d.' START PRACTICING Swulay Organ RN>ital Third Sonata .. , .. , . . . . . Guilmant C<>loring ..•••..•••..•••.• Burlel~;h ~Jill Jig Soug . . . . . • . . . ~lclllh~lti:-01111 \\'at\r ~~u~.c .............. HatuiPI llr. Tit!mar:;h Pilgrirn .Sung ..•••.. T~t·haikowsl<y 1 u tt•~ Lu xemhurg Gat·dens ...... . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . :\la n.ng ~ot·turne .......•..•....... l'urratt llil\lmnl Fi;.her * .. * In the college mail this :morning are letter:. to every undergraduate from a sub-committee of the Facul- ty Committee on Educational Pol- icy. Enclosed are questionnaires de- signed to t·ecord students' opinion~ on the quantity of scholastic re- quirements. • \' * 000 They were strolli.ng In Jacl!- son's garden a.:rnong the sweet spring blossoms.. t.he industrious .;ophomore and the only girl 1at the moment>. \Ah! he exulted, wav- ing an envelope from the Dean's office, \a loan at la.st!., IGNOTUS. The director of athletics presides at all elections of managers and assistant mana- g-ers and his p1·esence gives sufficient con- For the past two years Spring Night hm tinuity to such meetings. The routine is the 1 ·een conducted w1\th l1\ttle OI' no prev1'ous :-;ame at each of thP three meetings a year u announcement or publicity. As a consequence and having others at the meeting who can there has been little enthusiasm shown in haw lltlthing to say about the selections is Richard Fisher, who will be the guest artist on Dr. Tidmarsh's pro- gram Sunday afternoon ,possesses a voice of full rich timbre and ex- cellent control of fine shades of During recent years the belief has been developing among mem- l>ers of the faculty as well as among undergraduates that too much academic work is required. Many feel that students' training would be mote valuable if thc7 were allowed to do a few thing< well instead of being forced to de so much war k superficially. Notes On Our C o n t e m p o r a r ie s this affair by the fratemities with the re- ausm·d. suit that only four or five houses entering· The college song leader could easily be the competition for the Day cup. coloring. We welcome him again to these weekly recitals, at which he last sang in December. A second argument advanced fot reducing scholastic requirements is that their present extent narrow:: the educational opportunities at Rochester by making necessary the sa~rifice of such valuable non-curri- cular activities as independent reading, participation in college or· ganizations, and even the lowly \bull session.\ A Slight Misprint Headline in the North Dakota State College student newspaper: \791 Students Ca.st In Brevities Roles.\ Now we'll tell one. made an appointive position upon the recom- mendation of the retiring leader. The same There are almost four weeks left before could be done in the case of the cheer lead- this event will take place and it is high time rt·s. ~~Y virtue of his position the director of that the fraternities began to prepare for athletics should be the man to mal<e such the songfest. Everyone of the twenty-two appointments. fraternities has songs of its own and the Athletic awards are made on a basis of members of the fraternities are well enough nwnht-t\ of pPriocls of play in which a man acquainted with the co11ege songs which can has engaged or, in the case of track and be sung. c1·oss-country, the number of points scored. It is noteworthy that the Terrace Coun- The only part that the athletic board plays cil has made the regulation that the winning is to ratify the nominations of the managers fraternity cannot sing the same song the of the spo1·ts concerned. This function could following year. Often one fraternity may he handled just as effectively if the mana- have a song which is fairly easy to sing and gers would submit the names of those play- also has a pleasing· melody. It would be un- ers eligible for awards to the director of ath- fail' to the other houses if this regulation letics and allow him to purchase the insignia. were not made. That regulation alone should These suggestions might create the im- attract many fraternities to the competition pression that we are trying to bestow many who hitherto stayed out because they felt additional powers with Professor J. Harold that the1'e was no chance to win. Wittner. If some people think that we are N t 1 · th t d t b f o on y IS e even suppose o e or trying to give him too much power, all we th f t 't' b t th f 1 1 ask is that you read this editorial again more e ra erm 1es u e our c asses a1·e a so included in the competition. If the fraterni- thoroughly and consider how much more ties support Spring Nig·ht, it follows that efficiently one man could do the taslts out- lined above. . the classes will be well enough represented LET'S INVITE THE DERES By entertaining the entire :Sigma Phi fraternity at its dinner Wednesday evening, to add to the affair. Jackson's Gardens provides a pleasant at- mosphere in the sp1ing so that students should he willing to sacrifice a small part of the evening of .May 21 to support a real col- lege function. The Melancholy of Spring We are looking forward with par- ticular pleasure to hearing Men- delssob:n's \Sprillg Song\ on the organ. Transparent in its simple form, cheerful and graceful, yet in· fused with a delicate melancholy, this well known piece is far more subtle and veracious than most of the :music of spring. Mendelssohn's \Spring Song\ rouses in Us evanes- cent impressions which we cannot dissociate from s.pring, mellow, melancholy impressions that can- not be defined. Handel's refreshing \Water Mu- sic,\ with its brisk sailor dance tunes and .playful Andante, stands out in marked contrast to- his colos- sal oratorios, a clear reminder that the composer did not confine him- self to ecclesiastical worlts. Music in a Garret An episode in Handel's life in England which we recently ran across appeals to us for the side- light which ~t throws upon eigh- te~nth century English life. There were then no concert halls in Lon- don where instrumental music coUld be publlcally performed; such music could (JUly be heard in the homes of the weal thy. But shortly before Handel's arrival in England a coal- peddler who loved music man-aged to fit up his p<1or garret with a clavichor-d and s:rnall organ. There, after his day's peddling, he would reecive as hi's .guests dultes, duch- esses, travelling artists, music-lov- ers in all stations of -life. Handel often climbed the steep stairway to tbi!'l garret apd there must hl!- ve gJve~ !mlnY informal' Qrs.t perform- ances of hill workl!. • • Quite True \The subjectl\.'\e :mind is the pro- cess through which society is made progressive and thro11gh wbleh it is kept intelligent,\ Pro:f. J. D. Stoops declared recently 'In a. lectttre at In- diana University. As an article in a recent issue of the Soapbox put it, the feeling is that students must be either \grinds or humbugs.\ But these opinions may not be widespread-surely students need a certain amount of driving and it is possible that if they were given more free time it would be wasted A major factor in the solution of the problem is the determination of the undergraduates' attitude to- ward it. If the tabulations show that the load is not too great, then the pro- tests must cease as being unsub- stantiated; if they indicate that too much work is reqUired, then it will be the faculty's duty to reduce aca- demic demands. The faculty have indicated their willingness to reduce quantitative requirements if they are convinced that breadth and quality of educa- tion at Rochester can thus be im- proved. However, only response by a large majority of the student body on the questionnaires will show that a need for action exists. -\The Campus,\-Univ. of Roch. DOES IT MATTER We have a question; we would like to find the answer. How manv seniors, graduating this June, hav~ found anything worth living for, fighting for? Four years of univer- sity classes and college environ- ment, if it does little else, seems to (Continued Oil Page 3) • • • This L-; News \The modern Germany Is not run by Hitler but by a gro-up of hard boiled soldiers,\ accDxding- to Prof. James K. Polloc:lt, of the University of Michigan. . .• . !\lore Talk of Dictators What America really needs is a Dictator of Speech, according to DT. James F. Bender of the City of New York facuity, who bas just completed a survey of th.e speech defects of screen sta;rs. . .. . Were Yoli Bom During .ran., Feb., or ~eh? After collecting st.atistlcs on the month of birth and intelligent quo- tient (}f 22,427 sch.oo1 !lh!ldren over a long period of years, Frof. Rudolf Pinter, Colt1mbia. University psy- chologist, has discovered that peo- ple born in Janua.ry, February, and March are not as Intelligent as those born ai any- oilier ti:me of the year, ., . . Score One fC)r tlte Studeats The trustees of .JlLiusklngum Col- lege (Concord, 0.) b.-ave lifted a 9'1- year-old ban aga.inst card playing and dancing- by st;ulients. • <jl· • Tltey Are Not All ])ead Y ~t .Five hundred Temple University Btudents receutly- signed' a petition (Oontin11ed on Pa~e 3) I I ! l' ' i . i l. i l E PL Question swer: Vad• To quot :;;peech wa crudity ar could read examples ne&s,-for who ahout courses in had flunlt.E more Eng: And nov father of gineer;\ tl intelligent was not a engineers about the Hoover? The gN <which w• be a sligll as an eng whole is dorf on Thank yc engineers lege affai P1•of. L Saturday Being Ea ly expres over the : to speak consecuti' man who subject? our own The de the Thor: read as is free, VI ger and in the ea.: wrong til arri:ve, w making t Thorne- I plete ca1 $14. In pay for oil, repa.i fees to tl sista.nce, dries (E day). Ell stated ~ <surprisi for the 1: boys the essary IE one inte.t college Prof. W administ From OJ: patch re :<tudents that livi was too had one by the a the spil some st· a single by Geor of Low while t:t bier, thE tH. If not let : More F1 1. Pr \AssisltJ ogy.\ J means •· up to -s 2. Ot logues may be 3. 01 this W4 cons ide 4. 01 Levis\- Correct 5. I:~: sences) Exe~ We~ pointrn as assi: all a;g~ ed mo But le· more a time i game, But WE strong have strong team that w our l1E go pill questi< our si the LiJ Thel ing of at 10 • meml:l c B

e e y .. ls • if er. ng of 10 ft. on- clr- the per: pro- itis In- run rslty is a to of just Feb., the quo- over psy- peo- and as the Col- a 97- aying I I ! I E PLURIBUS UNUM I Notes On Our Contemporaries THE CONCORD~N\SIS FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1934 To Play at Prom Announce Pro grain I\ For Spring Night In Three :: th M • 1 Jl Hale Club Elects e 81 14 New Members Editor, The Concordiensis: Question: What is intellect? An· swer: Vaden R. Butler, C. E., '37. To quote: \Mr. Wassmanstlorf's speech was the worst example of crudity and boorishness\ etc. We could readily suggest several good examples of crudity and boorish- ·ness,-for instance, the engineer who shouted abe>ut the easier A, B. courses in daily assembly, yet who had flunked Allerton Smfth~s sopho- (Continued f~:om Page 2) in which they agreed: to \decapitate . himself with extreme joy.\ Prizes Will Be A warded for Interfraternity Singing Sometime ago one of the seniors wrote a letter to you, .printed in your column, concerning the gen- eral disorder and lack of respect in the back part of the chapel dut•ing a service. This morning we had an- Three Faculty Members, Ten Juniors, and One Sopho· more Will Be Honored • • • So Its Ooine to This Competition Many of the 1,161 Harvard Uni- , versity students listed in the uni- ve:rsity employment office stand ' ready to serve as .nursemaids and· Definite plans for the annual other exhibition, this time pl'inci- Three faculty members, ten jun- Sprlng Night exercises were formu- pally by the members Of the fresh- iors, and one ~uphomore were elec- Ia.ted at a meeting of the Terrace man cla~s. which aroused me to ted to memben>hip in the Hale Club Council Wednesday evening. This write this le.tter. With Ulnion's it was armounced today by the Ex- cooks. · New Fi!otball . k present policy in vogue, no onger ecut1·ve Com~•ttee. program w1llt eMya epl aac \d · f h 1 b ~u cons1 ermg res man mere P c es The new members elected from more English. • • And now for a bit of logic: \The father of our country was an en- gineer;\ therefore all engineers are intelligent. But Abraham Lincoln was not an enginee.r; therefore aU engineers are nuts .. Example: ~ow about the great engineer, Herbert The national football rules com- mittee has announced a chang£ the specifications of the football 19<\4, decr.easing the cireumfe1ence and making it easier to handle and program which will take place May ·th · ht t th\ k t i WI no ng o m .or ac or the -facult\\ are D!'. Marcellus .Clowe, 2t at q;30 under the auspices ·of the th 1 't nly r\gllt tl·1at \' emse ves, 1 seems o 1 college physicina, Mr. Augustus Tem•ace Council will include sing- they should follow the example set Fox, in3tructe>r in Phy:sics, Dr. Hoover? The great-est ce>mplhnent of all (Which we feel in all fairness may be a slight overstatement) : \I feel, as 3.n engineer, that my group as a wh()le is equal to Mr. Wassmans- dorf on an intellee~l basis.\ Thank you, Vaden. It is nice for for.Ward pass. • * .. Gets New Building Hazle.tt A. Cuppy, Indiana and editor, has willed to College the sum of $250,000, part which will be used to construct a ·}?uilding to be named in honor of lng competition among the various for them. by the upper three Philip Mosely, instructor in history; fraternities and Classes and the a- classes and behave as gentlemen. from the junior clas~, Paul Beik, warding of the Kreusi Self Im-' There are. often times when we do Rankine Hinman, William Wald- pr<lvement prize. To the fraternity not care for the speakers, or those ron, Austin Fox, Ralph .Semerad, rendering the best .singing, the conducting the service, but we have Donald Moulton, Seymour Hare- judges, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Dr. to remember that there are those witz, Clemens Hathaw!'J.y, Joseph Ernesl Ligon, and Edward L. Car- who would like to hear and enjoy Woolman, Andrew Poggenpohl; roll, Will present the Day Cup. what is going on. There is no and from the sophomore class, Rob- The Kreusi Self Improvement cause for mockery, whispering, or ert North. his wife. • • • engineers to be interested in col- Con.Solidation lege affairs. Although the proposal to Fletcher Henderson,. natimnally Jm(lwn orchestra leader, is now Jlla.ying an engagement at Detroit. .prize, awarded annually by Paul J. any other form of disorder during The Hale Club was known as the K:reusi, '00, will be given to the the brief pe:riod devoted to daily Engl:ish Club until two years ago. senior adjudged by the Terrace chapel. This morning's disturbance The English. Club was organized in C<Juncil to have shown the most reflected upon Professor Tidmarsh, 1911 by the late Dr. Edward Ever- during the four years and in lieu of the fine programs ett Hale, head of the department of p 1 ·of. Ligon gave a rousing talk ~orthwestern University and Dr. Ogilby to Speak On that he prepares for us throughout .Eng·lish, Dr. Stanley P. Chase, then of his college course. th · · h\ t . · e year, we owe 1m more respec · a member of the department of saturday on \The Impmtance of University of Chicago has been . Being Ea.mest.\ We have previous- jected, a committee of nr<lminerlti 'Ethics of the Ca-t·penter' The Spring Night program will Of I '11 h t d \t th t course W1 ave o a m1 a ·Engli.sh and now pro~essor of Eng- be rounded out with selections y a1 rud e · th t I ant m person g g IS a w - !ish at Bowdoin College, Professor ly expressed here our amazement educators is continuing investi- over the nerve of a man who dares gations of the educational implica- ta speak at the same place on two tions of consolidation of the two in- Dr. Remsen B. Ogilby, president played .by the String Quartet and ed to hear the singing this morn- Charles N. Waldron, secretary of the Band. ing and was unable to enjoy it. the college who was then a member consecutive days. But what 'about a stittitions. · of Trinity. College, Hartford, Conn., ma.:a who speaks twice on the same .. * * since 1920, will speak on \The The rules for the ilite.r:fraternity To add to this, I think the ad- of ·the department of history, and class singing are as follows: ministration should be. compliment- Dr. Morton C. Stewart, associate h ld \ · d Ethics of the Carpenter\ at the subject? PerJ;la.PS !\e s ou mm · Drama. as a Revealing Art chapel services Sunday. l-Each class may sing one song ed on the fine programs that they professor of German. o:f its own choice , have given us this year. They have. The ptupose of the club was to our own busmess. A new approach to drama, as one Dr_ Ogilby was graduated with. The Concordiensis, in describing of the revealing arts of the age in the bachelor of arts degree from the Thorne-Lo~>mis industrial trips, which it was proposed, will be in- Hatvard in 1902, and. received his read as follows: \The trip, which traduced at the Pennsylvania State master of arts degree in 1907. Aft- is free, will cover many of the tar- ·College as part of the coming sum- er two years of teaching at Groton 2--Each fraternity will be re- been interesting and varied, and have informal fortnightly meetings te> sing one of its own .songs. most of those led by our profes·· ,of the faculty and upperclassmen fraternity which won the com- sors show a great deal of thought who were congenial and had posi- ·petition last year must not present and preparation. Of course it may tive intellectual interests. ger and more impnrtant industrie.s ,mer session curriculum. School, he entered the General the same song this year. be unfortunate when a speaker The dub has no initial fee, no 3-Each fraternity must be pre- such as Mr. Long or Mr. Wass- dues, and no insignia of any kind. in the east.\ Believing this to be the c. L. M. Theologiool Seminary in New York. wrong time of the year for Santa to. In 1907 he was grad\la.ted from the . mansdorf becomes the object of FolloWJ'ng the .read1 ·ng of a paper to sing one of the followmg h •t· · th b t sue en lClsm on e campus, u ;by some member of the club, infor- arrive., we investigated. Each man Episcopal Theological School in . making the. trip must buy from the; Week's Best Editorials Cambridge, Ma613., with the bache- Thorne-Loomis Foundation a C(}m-, lor of divinity degree. Wesleyan The Dutchman's Song, The that adds a little spice to life and mal discussions follow and there is Song, and Old Union Be- we would like to hear from them some ·refreshment, the members Mohawk Vale. All fra- more often · present sharing equally in the ex- wlil be required to sing Yours, pense. There is also the annual plete camping outfit which costs co-nferred upon him the honorary $14. In addition, each man must (Continued from Page 2) degree of :ooctor of Laws In 192~ A Student. Christmas dinner to which each pa.y for his share of food, gas and break up most of the smugness, and Columbia. the honoro.ry degree :· oil, repairs to the tJ.uck, admissi&n. the su:reness of the student. of Doctor of Letters in 1923. fees to the plants, tolls, medical as- Few freshmen, if they have President Ogilby was ordained to ,French Club Chooses Its Editor, The Concordiensis: sista.nce, entertainment, and sun- gious trou:ble.s at all, are atheists. th.e ministry of the Episcopal A pun used to be considered as dries (estimated total-$1.50 per While few seniors are absolute Church and spent two years at SL Officers for Next ) ear the lowest form of humor. By day). Except for this, the trip (as atheists, most of them either have Stephen's Church in Boston, Mass- means of the article below Joe Pun- stated abovel is free. There is natural or individual conception of He then went out to the Philippine' ner hopes to have been able to stim- <surprisingly enough) no charge· deity that omits church and theol- Islands, to be headmaster of 'I'he French Club elected its offi- ulate all definers of puns into work- for the use of the truck-which the ogy. Any intelligent senior admits school for Amerioon and cers for next year at a regular. ing out a new and more insulting boys themselves drive-nor for nee-· the equality of the Mohammedan or boys in the Far .East at I;laguio. held Tuesday night in Silli- definition of a pun. essary letters of introduction. Any- Buddist to the Christian. Admitting stayed there nine. years, . r:nan Burton Delack, '36, sue- My fellow reporter, Joe Zilch, one interested in these free trips for this, he cannot fight for God or 1 9 18 to enter the Army with a . · eeeds Don Moulton as president, and I sat in a breathless suspense coUege men is requested to see Christianity or his church. mission as Chaplain. After Hallenbeck, '36, takes over the as we .awaited the sound of the Prof. Waldron at his office in the Americanism and the old time pa- he went to St. Paul's . from Delack, Wil- dinner gong which would soon an- administration building. triotism is almost a museum relic c()ncord, Mass., as a master. In · liam Myer, '37, succeeds Bob War- nounce that the faculty dinner was From ·cambridge, Mass., an AP dis- among college students. The senior Dr. Ogilby was elected President · ner as secretary, and Charles Reid, served. The gong sounded just as patch reads: \Aristocratic Harvard· by his .fourth year may have taken Trinity College. . '<!6, remains treasurer. Tidmarsh wanted to know \When ,;tudents who recently complained oath not to fight for flag or coun- · Delacl~ has been on the Dean's DEWEY eat? T'OPPAN the meal, that living in the Harvard houses try. At least, he will realize the fu- :List his entire sophomore year, and several profs began chewing MOR- was too e.xpensive for them, have tility of politics and the emptiness Anniversary of · Hallenbeck has made the honor roll SEis of cELLERY, while others had one item of expense removed of democracy. If he fights for bis Death Feted several time.s during his freshman tried KELLOGG'S bran. Soup was by the authorities. A roulette wheel, country, he fights to protect the in- sophomore years. Reid, besides served and Jagu almost put his the spinning of which has cost terests of his economic masters. having made the Dean's List con- HANSEN it. BACON and ice- some students as much as $150 in If the injustice and wretchednes~ \Lafayette at Schenectady\ tinually, was a member of the soph- BERG lettuce were brought on, but a single nigh. t, has been confiscated ·of widows, orphans and workers be the title of the poem which om<Jre board of the Concordiensis most of the profs didn't CARROLL- b th h . h 1 h · d · 'th th 1 1 b ot for them. The worst course was by George C. S. Benson, head tutor o er 1m, e soon rea izes t at in- fessor Harold A. Larrabee will read an smgs \?'I e g ee c u · . of Lowell House.\ We feel that justice and wretchedness always in Tuesday's assembly to commem- A comm1ttee was also appm.n!ed the chicken. After the first bite, while the man who bets is a gam- have been and probably always wlll orate the 10Gth anniversary of tll.e at the meetiJ?-g ~o m~ke a revlSlon three profs simultaneously asked, be. H t h t th bl . d d f th st tut on accordance \HoWOLD is this bird?\ \Is it a bier, the man who doesn't is no bet- e comes o \1- e e m , og· death of Lafayette. The subject <l. e con. 1 , 1 • . 1 n ter, If a man makes a bet, why matic idealists and all their shining this original narrative poem con- w1th Dr. Ellery s des1gns. The club MALE?\ Bronner asked for KETz- not let him lie in it? armor. For him, progress becomes cerns his three visits to this city In gave ~ vote c>f thanks to Mr. Aug- up and salad drHESSON. Barnes More Fun With The New Catalog merely change, His values, all val- 1778 , 1784 and 1825 . ust Zabuesnic for hl,s aid during the entered late, explaining that he had 1 , Prof. Ernest Ligon is listed as ues, be.come relative. He answers T , 1 e exercises form a part uf ~ear as faculty adVIsor .. The meet- BENNETT the TAYLOR'S to get \Assisa;nt Professor of Psychol- his own questions and lets other nation-wide program of mg was the final one th1s year. :~~u~; ~nc::: ~e;~e party ogy.\ Now \assisant in French people answer theirs. Does it mat- a.nces, including o--- After what seemed WEEKS the means ''sitting.\ The deductions are ter what their answer is? If they ington, D. C., New G1·aduate Council States: dinner was finisheN and four of t are stupid, the better fm· him_ Newark, Charleston, f · ..., up ·o you. There is no truth; there is no good 1\ual:.t::cati\ons or· To,n• the !Joys settled down to a gam.e of 2 0 th d \C t Bethlehem and other cities ~ lll ....,.. . pinochle. Wainger's luck was bad, . n e secon page- a a- or bad; there is nothing but him- by Lafayette, as well as at such in- membe~: brings a present (\not costing more than ten cents\) and a poem for some fellow member. Papers are read suitable to the oc- ·casion. Dr. Hale .presided over all the meetings from the inception of the English Club until his death in the summer of 1932. The club was re- organized that fall and named in his honor beca,use his personality had for so many years maintained in the group a spirit of intellectual good fell()wship. An executive com- mittee of two faculty members and two students arranges for the read- ing of the papers and the place of the meetings. The initiatiun and final meeting of the year will take place Sunday afternoon, May 20. Joe Zilch and I had to scram, while tbe boys were still going strong, vocalizing the o~d song-hit, \She'll be CUMMINS round the mountain wh-en she comes.\ Some dinner; MOSELY nonsense, eh?' JOE PUNNER PARK LAUNDRY, INC. 105 Clinton St. (Labor Temple) P:HONE 4·9011 Collerre :Bundles a Specialty logues of the several departments self. And unless he if? completely stitutions as Yale, University of but Hoadley comforted him by may be had (West) on application.\ egotistic, he won't bother t(> fight Iowa, Rollins, Transylvania and Students wishing tQo 'become mem- s~yirt:g, \Your DALE come, so don't 3. On page 69-'\orientating\- for himself. Lafayette College. They have. been bers of the industrial tours spon- ~:rd~s~:f~~:f.;;' SCiiAUFFLER this word listed in Webster but Unless the senior has something in cooperation with tbe sored by the Thorne-Loomis Foun- ~~~~~~~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ considered poor form-out of date. to live for, something that will ex- 1 .F-cm.el'llca.n Friends of Lafayette, an dation, Inc., are required to be more f 4. On page 22--\Jolm Haroel cite him, college has· been a four- organization of which Judge Wal- than 18 years of age, and hold a Levis\-Spencer lecturer on music. year course in Diletantism. He lias ter P. Gardner is president, and of driver's lice:b.se, it was announced Correct spelling is \Hazedel.\ many interests, but very little c~n- which Professor Larrabee is a by Mr. Charles Waldron, secretary cerns him. member. of the College. In addition, they· 5. In index-\Excuse (See Ab- Perhaps there is a senior who lias ----o---- must be certified to be in good. sences);'' Why not Absences (See found something worth fighting f<>r. {lealth and physical condition, and Exc~s)? If there is, will he tell us where he Ancient Custom Revival Seen must sign a waiver absolving both We are glad to hear of the a}l- found it? In Inter-fl:a.ternity Funetion th.e Foundation and the other mem- pointment c>f Lawrence and Canlaill -The Syracuse Daily Orange, bers of the tour from blame for any as assistants to Coach Hatfield. W~ injuries sustained during the trip. all agree that the squad. has need- May 14 Last Day to Enter The membe:rs of the Kappa Alpha :Before starting ea~h JJerson WlJ§t ed more adequate line. coaching. fraternity entertained .the Sigma purchase from the. Foundation a But let's not for.get tne need. for. Goodrich-Duane Debates Phi's Wednesday evening at dinner standard camping outfit, which will more and stronger prayers. The last at the Kappa Alpha Lodge. This cost approximately $14. Further in- time the te.am played before a social function is an annual event forniation on requirements for join- game, only I2 yards were made. .A:ny students, including members between the two fraternities, wllo lng the expeditions may be pre- .: But we feel that the praying wasn't· of the Philomathean Society, vrho ha:ve played host to each other on cured in the Graduate Council strong ~nough. A good team should are interested in entering the Gclod- alternate years. Office. have strong prayers as well as rich-Duane Extemporaneous De- During the winter the Chi psi strong plii.yers. Provided the other ba:te to be held June 7, at 8 p. m. and Psi Upsilon fraternities ea.oh team doesn't also pray, we feel in Old Chapel are aslred to register gave a dinner in honor of the that with more fervent prayers and with the Secretary of the Depart- other. In the past the exchange of our new coaches, the tea!Il should, ment of Political Science before the dinner guests between the different go places next season. It',s all a afternoon of M<>nday, May 4. fraternities was much more preva- question of \getting the Lord on afternoon of Monday, May 14. At lent, but lately these functions have CONCORDIENSIS NOTICE There will be an important meet- ing ()f the Senior and Junior Boards of The Concordiensis in the ·ptJLI)l.ws•u<ms offie~ at one o'clock on All members of the two boards are expected to be p;resent. SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY. INC. 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK ~llllllllllllllliUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ ~ HotelVanCurler = . our side\ rather than \getting on three p. m. of that day, tri:3.1 become fewer and fewer. the Lord's side.\ speeches, on a general toplc to be ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ! -- E. P. U. announced next week, will . be judged by a committee of the fac- ulty. The four best speakers will ! rr•s PURE~s WH<>~~~EUCIOUS ~ Recof:;z~:;l~~~~~:::E::ters BAND NOTICE be divided into two teains as nearly There will be an important meet- equal as possible. These teams will ing of the Band Monday morning· debate in Old Chapel Thursda.-y, at 10 o'clock in the Old Chapel. All .June 7, at 8 p. m. on a particular mempel'S are requested to attend. phase of the general topic. ONLY THE BEST IS GOODENOUGH BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner\ Union Street and Gillespie Reg. Phar. Reg. Phar~ Edward H. Brandhorst, Leland E. Brandhorst, E ~ ANNOUNCE THEIR NEW Serve Colonial lee Cream at all Social Events and Every Week • • • • • • TAP ROOM a c 0 I 0 n 1. a 1 ! Although New ... Already Popular I · · . · • . · • ... Delicious Food and Refreshing ~ JCE CREAM §' Beverages ... At Moderate Prices · • • = TRULY SCHENECTADY'S BEST = . .~ ~ • THERE IS A DEALER:- NEARBY • = = . :•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••=·· ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~llllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllll~

Four THE CONCORD]ENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1934 \lnterrela tion Of Sciences\ Subject Of Smith's Speech Quotes Astronomy, Physics, Biology, Mathematics, Sci- ences as Related to Geology Presidentuelect Attends Dr. Dixon Guests R. Fox Among of Professors Professor Edward S. C. Smith spoke before the Uni.on. Chapter ~f the American Assocratlon of Uni- versity Professors at the Mohawk Golf Club last evening. Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, president-elect was among the guests present. Profes- sor Smith's topic was \The Inter- relation of the Sciences.\ Professor Smith, whose main in- terest is geology, emphasized those sciences which are closely 1 elated to his own field. \Early in the 19th century the vanous fields of sci- ence had been carefully fenced off, and, content with the many prob- lems that confronted them, work- ers in their several fields kept very much to themselves. With the de- velopment of modern science the barriers have melted away and their places are now taken by bor- der zones which merge with one another.\ Astronomy Olde.st Science The speaker contmued by adding that astronomy is the oldest known science in the world. \To primitive man the darkness of night was an awesome thing and without doubt he marvelled at the stars and re- joiced at the sight of the moon com1ng at times, as a welcome sub- stitute for the sun. But modern as- tronGmy owes a very considerable debt to its sister science physics, for without telescope or rather, without the development of that branch of physics known as optics, the la1ge refracting and still lar- ger reflecting telescopes m1ght never have been devisd.\ He went on to add that astron- omy and geology find themselves concerned with the same problem when they seek a mechanism for the origin of the solar system, of which the earth is a member. \The present very generally accepted the theory for the origin of the solar system is that of Jeans of Cam- bridge, which explains the forma- tion of the solar system as a result of tidal action upon the sun by an- other star which approached it rather closely about 2,000 million years ago and tore matter from the sun's upper layers which later con- densed into the planets and other bodies in our system .... Sea Shells Freaks of Nature \It seems difficult to realize that scarcely more than a couple of cen- turies ago fossilized sea shells were considered as inorganic freaks of nature, or even devices of the devil to lure the true believer to dispute the mosaic account of creation. A conception of the evolution of ani- mals and plants as furnished by the study of Paleontology open a door on a scene more wonderful at least as I see it, than that view offered by the idea of special creation. ~························ E THE FARM E !THE COUNTRY CLUB! = RESTAURANTS : . - •••••••••••••••••••••••• 24 - Hour Service That's What We Give You With 100o/ 0 Guarantee of Perfect Workmanship in All Our Lines of Cleaning LUX CLEANERS Phone 4-8700--131 State St. Official U. C. Photographers Portrait and Commercial Photographing THE WHITE STUDIO 215 State Street Union College Representative T. WHIPPLE, Chi Psi Call Ball X l'or batter and quicker Samoe ID Cloth• Qlea.ntng and Shoe Rebuild. liaa'--ct DO htgher coat than o~~s .. where. 01fJI DAY SEBVIOB ANT DAY \A joint problem for the geologist and the biologist concerns not the creation, but the extinction of cer- tain species and even entire genera and classes of plants and animals. As; an example we might Inquire into the cause of the extinction of the great reptiles of Mesozoic Era that became popularized in the mo- tion picture \The Lost World.\ It was once believed that. a sharp di- viding line existed between inor- ganic materials and compounds pro- duced by animals and plants. This was due to the supposition that a vital force was necessary for and became a part of living matter. In 1826 Wohler produced Urea, a typi- cal organic compound from Inor- ganic materials. \Anthropology and psychology, both younger members of the sci- ence family, apply biological and physical principles to the solution of many of the problems that con- cern races of man, animal behavior, and the like, and again .to the phy- sicist the psychologist turns for tools with which to carry out his ex- periments. Age of Earth \For a long time man has be- lieved that the earth had been in existence for a perioa of a few thousand years at most. There was no conception of the vast ages through which animals and plants had been evolving, and it is of in- terest to note that an astronomer first pointed the way toward a sci- entific answer to the age of the earth. It was Edmund Halley who in 1'715, published a paper entitled 'A Short Account of the Cause of the Saltness of the Ocean and of the Several Lakes that Emit no Rivers: with a Proposal by Help Thereof to D1scover the Age of the World.' His argument ran about as follows: Every year large amounts of dissolved salts are being carried to the seas by the rivers. We can determine approximately the amounts carried down as well as the total amount of salts now in the ocean. Therefore, according to Halley, the amount of the latter divided by the amount of the for- mer would give the number of years it has 'taken to dissolve these salts from the land surfaces, and cari'Y them to the sea, where they prll- sumably have been accumulating. On the assumption that the seas were at first fresh, and that the saltness of the ocean is due wholly from the leaching of rocks, the best calculations give us the figure of eighty million years as a quotient. Decomposition of Radium \Helium gas is only four times as heavy as hydrogen, while ra- dium is 226 times heavier, a11d It has been calculated that as decom- position continues, the radium will be transformed into a substance 206 times as heavy as hydrogen, that is, has an atomic weight of 205. This is due to the loss of hel- Ium. At the time these studies were being made, there was no known substance having an atomic weight of 207. So it was suggested that the final product of the active disin- tegration of matter might be ordi- nary metallic lead. In proof of this, it was argued that uranium miner- als were almost always found with these bearing lead. Yet there was the discrepancy of the atomrc weights. \Like the astro-physicist, some geologists have been hyphenated in geo-physicists whose concern is such problems as how ranges are uplifted and why, once uplifted, they are not crushed by their own weight. The earthquake problem !em falls in the domain of the the- geo-physicist, and he can indicate what sorts of matter are likely to exist within the earth at depths which today seem absolutely im- penetrable. \I fear that I have done little homage to mathematics, without whose aid we might now be no fur- th,er advanced than the most primi- tive humans known, but if science has made great strides, certamly it is because of the mathematical gymnastics by which we have hur- dled some of our difficult problems. The major triumph of mathematics in the 19th century WJaS unques- tionably the discovery of the planet Neptune. \If we are to progress it must be on a united front from electron to nebulae, sticking to our hammer or telescope, yet co-operating to the fullest extent with those in other fields. I believe it is not too much to hope that the organization of a Division of Science as has been ef- fected under the Union plan will serve to knit more closely the sev- eral fields and their aims.\ THE HEIGHT OF GOOD TASTE ~~ Luckies are made of only the dean cen- ter leaves-the mildest, best-tasting tobaccos. And then, 'It's toasted' for \It's toasted\ throat protection. Every Lucky Strike V Luckies are g}l·ways kind to your throat is round, firm, fully packed-no loose ends. That's why luck.ies 'keep in con- dition' -do not dry out. Luckies are always in all-~y_! kind to yow: throat.'' Wi Ni1 Purp) 'fhl An1 By C Willia edly pi sitlon c track tt meet a after no; cares a meet w tt'ip OVE The which i good sc Flint, v vault, l the PUI perfmn Held e' 160 foa loot sll can tos In th appem: le•·, bul highs ~ about E tatives' Ham all goa and W1 ter mil body, 1 ords, Ras~. : them a Gr£>g the Pu and WI meet t best dl squad. felt. < these t team. Willi and it will h: points Mrddle had h: use tll Union Coa< men t Swartl he wil this VI place longez· New towsk, Gulna The istic a but ht excellt the fu Iiams, tage f = Eve o'clocl teams nlng ted h: Coacl tlley cordi1 Ka: Alp Psr <Fori Ali= Delta Th1 Chi .i Ph Pi 2. Ka Ne Ka De Psi All Be Epsi Pll 21-9, NE <For Al Delt Pl Chi Tl Upsi BE Sign PI Phi, Cl Delt D1 21-1: A' Del1 Si The

little o fur- prim}- hur- blems. planet }Je to or o the other much of a en ef- will e sev- THE CONCO.RD1ENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1934 --------.:.------------- __ . __ _.,_ .. -----------·------ Williams Host To Trackme~Tstic~en Pr_epared! To Assist Hatfield In Line Tactics NineAtRochesterTomorrow For First V•etory · . Purple Boast;of Several[ Griswold Selected for the 'rht·eats in Field Events Mound in Attempt to And Sprint Fea<tures Breal{ Two Year Jinx Tufts to Engage Varsity Here. In Fit•st Home Game; Sev- . eral Football Men on.· Squad ' The Varsity lacrosse team wlil --- --- play its first home game tomoi'I'OW _: By GEORGE R. CQRY, J.R. By WH.LIAM E. FEIWUSON when it encounter'S Tufts College:, WI-lliams College will undoubt- The Union baseball team will l'n- oh Libt,ary Field. The Garnet team ' edly .provid-e the .stiongest oppo- Jeavol' to break a three game jinx, opened its season last week, losi:ng'. sition of fhe year fot· the G:.u net which the Un·iversity of Roche-stet· to Hob.art, 7-6. . tl'ack team when the two tea1n\ ·team holds ove1· _them, whPn they The visitors wiU bt·ing a lavge ! meet a:t Williamstown tomonow .neet t;Je Y~llOWJackets ~omonow :;quad of players composed of many· after·noon at 2:30. Any.body whc · \t Rr:-HhP\tei. Coaeh .. F;Ihott Hat- men who played on the football ca1 e,; about seeing a ~,;ood II nC'~ .IPld will \enct Guy Gn,;wold to the team. N.o data has been received- mePt would do well to take a litt!P rno!Ind for thP Onrnet. . jbut it is believed that this year's trip over in that direction. G.n,wold !'l!Pady hn~ n VIctory •I team i:; the best turned out by · The Purple has a VP!'eran teun; J. v«>r M·ul<.llc;uury 1 . '. 1 . Ills. C'I eil!t and ·1 Tufts in many :ye!l:l'S. Tomon·o.w's which i~ reimfoi ceJ- by a number o: Lhe coach Is coun tmg heaVIly on .tussle will constitute the second en-· good sophomores. Lt>d by Captain him to stn]l the bats M thp Ro- gagement for botl\t teams--'l'ufts Flint, who compPtes in the polP ··hc~ter nine. Jim L.oornio, who :;hut playing Williams in its opening' va:ult, h;gh jump a.nd broad jump. out SLeven, w.th thtee h;ts Satur·-·l·game t,oday. the Purpll' hns \f'Vf'ral out~tu-n•lm; ,lay. will 0 \ held l1! J·L·sei ve a·s a - Un-ion's team . \II ·· b b \It - Pel ·for mets. Othar· thi·eats m Iht <'lief Jll'lch0r. Chn lc. H'gular first I arou d ·c t . WICh. a gam eF Ult ~ . . . -1 1 \d . h - . n . -.ap am auncey oo e· Held events include L:trnb('rton. ::. ,Ja,,em.~ol .!ll, I'\ 1 ·' 1 ('!\ 1 \ l e · nd B'll F · · F oaeh's t 1 1 ; 1 d cho'''\ tor pitcher. 1 a _I 'r~ser_. . opte. made. three . 160 foot javelin thiowp;· and a ·1.. ·Lnion \\-'on in HJ'll .of tpe teams siX goals m the g~J,me· foot shot pu!tt•r; and B:tuPr, who .. , ' I with Hobart last weE-k. Bob- Q.ppen-: Can to ~s tha di\;;ctl. 4 1 3 5 1 -Pet. lne h..st. tune th.:..t a lx;u-nt•t .teaa1· he\m d u W\lll . 11 b ~ ' 1 [ . •li . H ·I , . . I an oUS · I ams WI .pro -· In the mnning <-'VPnt,.;, Winkhnus _e eutt a oc H ~ti'I tPam m ba~e- ably take care of the defense posi- appears to be the nnly good h1:11 d- · ->all was ~h.e ''onunPncentt•nt game t\ons. with Hugh Elwyn and Ed !e 1 ·, but his tinw:-< nf 16 Hat in th• .n 193 1. 1.Iu, yl'ar 11 may Lle even I Tay-lor filling the attaclt assignment highs and 2G.2 in tlw low-< arP jmt 1 toughP·I: Job tl('fP.at.ng !,hem than j·The team will 'be tcmnded out with' a:bout ei!Ual LO thP G:ll·net reprp,.,en .Je!Oie._ l,o;·ht•olL\I. ha~ jJoU:yed one.l.b:d Barna Van vva.ldron Dun Mc- tatives'. ~ame thus far this seJ::;on. l~Bmg nab, and Hu<>o Betgman: . c , Hamilton, Mac€', and Kmmer HI'I ·° Co~·m•ll by tht' ,.;cnnt margm 01 · \' all good dash m<'n. while Howaw .me 1 un. [) to 4. Krcimp;· i.l th~i1 I ---o-------- and Wood art' thP chi\~ in thf' 1 ! 1 ldl· !.i;; Ollll :tl b.tt. h:.\\in ohtaltlC,!. Carnet Tracl{ Scoring ter mile>. In- thP g!<n, Wells. Gootl- ,Juee h(b out of fiw tum•,; at !Jat.' b d d M V · 1 1 d \\\ednL .. :--~day a pl acl ie<· h:une wa:-.1 o y. an c Pig 1 IHV<' goo r·ec- .Jiayrd b .. t \\'•·,·n ihf\ rt'!!Uiai s and 1 orris. but Bill BroC'I\wl•hl. John ·· Pts · Ross, and A. P. Walth\'\\ will g1vt ' 1 ,'e '- 11 \\' ir. whid 1 C'\'\h l!att_it-Id-[ Turner ......................... 14 them a good rare. .l.an'••·d tht• \uh-< for ,,;x ,tia:ght·, Buiton .................. - ..... • 12 GrPgnr·y, star di\tan<'\ man to nn•r'c; On_llw otlwr han•!. 11 \' v:~r-. NaguszPwski ................... 10· the Purple, ha~ WI PllC'hPd his knt'P ·II). w:c- domg W••ll ·' 1 ·!Jat and '~v-. V\'althe1s ................... _.... 6 and will detlnitf'ly lw, out of llH I' ·ml 1 111 \\' ,., o; .• p•l lh•• _ ·pl:d•·- 1lw' Kazmierczalt .................... 5 meet tomonow. HP ~~ by far th• <·~II ar~ h'\ 1 thP -anH' ltnPIIJl whrch Mil ate ............ _............ 5 b d 1 p · 1 •I\~ \Jp•·n tL--il·•l 111 thP la,t t'wu B I II · .est lstan<'Pt:UnnPt· on t w urp • ~anll·.~ Willl tlw I'Xc<·Pli\n of Cnach IOC\We I ...................... 5 squad. and his lo~;; Will ht· l<t•Plll) II tf II \II . . 1 . Gr1ffmg ......... -- . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 felt U OfO t nd .IJ:ll\ WIIIUI I ·a J<\•- -ll, 1 ' !Of' IOPllp that Milano 4 Page Five Tennis Team Faces Amherst Today Lord Jeffs Lost First Match To Yale, 8~1; Middlebury Meets Ga·rnet Tomorrow The varsity tennis team is mak- ing its first. home stand this after- noon aga,inst Amherst in an at~ tempt -to repeat its 1933 triumph over the Sabrina outfit. Today's mc.tches .comprise the third inter• collegiate test for the Garnet. The ftrst two against Haverford and Swarthmore, last Friday and Sat- urday respectively, 1esulted in de- feats forCoaeh Bill Aydelotte's uet-- men. ...~·· ~ ..... ? As this arti~f1-· fjiftis\'t~ press the · compl~te. .. lin~up for Union is un- kp.Qwil. However. it is certain that -~he fin;t foUl· singles matches will be taken care of by Captain Chrys- ler, Sam I<Pats, Joe Cohen and George StroebeL The other two singles players are being chosen from Jaclt: Moffett, who has as yet to hit his stride, AI Warner, Johnny Robe-rts and Austin Fox. These last two have as yet to see action in intercollegiate competition for the Garnet. In their opening contest of the season the Amherst racquet wield· ers succumbed to a -severe trounc- ing at the hands of Yale on Satur- day to the tune of 8 to 1. Mahony, a sophomore, was the outstanding player in both single::; and doubles play. He pushed his opponent in singles play to three ~ets before go- ing down to defeat, but, when teamed up with another sophomore, Wm.ston. managed to turn in the Jeffmen's lone victory of the day, - · r 0 a J:; 1 1 1 ~ will stalt tomor10w's ga-me along - .............. · .. · .... · .. \'- these events for the Massachusctt. with Grbwold. Waldron ............. - . . . . . . . . . \ team. • 1 . 1 t •• t· Gallant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3. CECIL E. CANTRILL, -JR. The other members of the Am· herst tt\am are M~ldrum, Owen, Hulick, Sundquist, Critchlow and Merchant. '\''\II\ th' I · tl .Ig 1 ' 1 rae JCe B t d 3 vvl 1ams uses _ 1ammer IIow, y 1 1 1 1 d h t as eo ...................... .. d •t · \bl tl t th G , eR ere ay an< o ay t e earn K 11 - · · 2 an 11Sposs1e 1a e aJn<-·····td\tlft ... th ru .......................... . will have to spot the Put pie nin•· al!u P 1 s: 0 not~lmg more an Ross . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Cecil E. Cruthlll, Jr., }'('gular guard on Michigan's Big Te-n Cham- pions In 1931 and 1932, will, with Arthur C. Lawrence, instruct Head Coach EUlot Hatfield's 1934 (>lev(>n in line tactics. Tomorrow afternoon the Garnet netmen will play host to the :Mfd· dlebmy racquet wielders. In the 1933 contest, Union trimmed the Vermont team by a scox·e of 7 to 2. points -in this event. J.,ast year when 3 1lght batt mg. PI ac:tice for the pur- Gottschalk ......... , ........ , . • 1' Middlebury came down he1e, thPy · P,nsP of keepmg limbered. up. The Ne!'ltle ............... _ ...... _.... 1 h d 1 • tl . . . b t d\d l Garnet mne leaves Schenectady to- L'ttl 1 a 1ammer uowe1s, u 1 no \crht d . 11 b b . ht d I e .... · ........ · ...... · .. · .. use them when they lear·ned thal m, · an WI e up ng an ON ALEXANDER FIELD TOTAL . , ....•.... , ........ 81 Union does not use the event. early Saturday 11_10rnmg. Coach Ketz will use :the same T~e probable Imeup: , men that he did 'last week again\t POS. , UN .ION ROCHESTER Swarthmore, but it is expected that lB Clark · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Exter he will add a few men to his squ&d 2 B FI~re · · · · ·: · · · · · · · · · De~ beck this week, taking twenty-seven in SS Dam · · · ·- · · · · · · · · · · · Slun~ei place of tha twenty-one he uses on 3B Cadw:;tllacler · · · · · · McCo~v1lle longer trips. ~F Loom1s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . F1sher ---o-~- By Spectators See In Tossing the GlamoUI' · - GEORc;;£R: CORY,~JR:\\ Weights We'll Win, Professor! Newcomers will includP Rr~ns- CF Semerad · · · · · · · · · · · · · Stewart towski in the javelin and Hank RF Garrison · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Derby Gulnac in the discus. C Ste:venson · · · · · · ........ ~aak It is getting so had that til-e var- Profes~or Bronner, the \Grand sity weight men must snatch <J.. -Old ·Man of the History -Depart- chance to put the shot or hurl the ,. . discus in practice. Not that there ment has told me not to come The Garnet mentor is not opilm· P Gnswold · · · · · · · · · · · · Bnnker are not enough sixteen pound balls ne<Jr his class room ot the -Histo-ry · or disci available, but the way Bill _ DE'partment office again if the Ketz coaches these sports has track team loses to Williams tomor- touched the imagination of specta- row. The oracle of Front Street has tors. istic about the outcome of the meet. but he believes that Union hn\ fln 8i~,;nm Chi df'f~,-,t~d Knppn Nu, excellent chance of victory. Thi>' b · 19'21. n-tH, 21-14. the flrst meet of the season for Wil- liams, and this is a decided advan- tage for the Garnet. INTRAMURAL LEAGUES Standings Baseball Evening games a1·e to start 7 o'clock sh;.t.rp. Intramural balo>dJ!l'll Kappa Nu - - . - teams are requested to l;;eep an m- Ph1 nPlta ThPtn . Iilng by Inning scorl' to h•• submit- Ri gm a Chi - . - ted immediat~ly aftl'r th\ ~~arnf'S tn 'l'hPta Nu F.p•ilnn Coach NP>lson Nit<'hman so that I.,ambJa Chi Alpha LJ<:AGUE W L 3 0 3 1 2 2 1 3 they may be published in the Con- cordiPnsis. Results Baseball Kappa Nu 7, Sigma Chi 6. Alpha Delta Phi 15, Delta Phi 3. Psi Upsilon 9, Theta Dt'lta Chi 0 <Forfeit>. Alpha Phi Delta 9, Phi Delta 0 !For-feit). fligma Theta Nu Epsilon 11. Lambda Chi Alpha 10. 0 3 l<.:.~STERN LEAGUE B('ta ThPta Pi .. Alpha DPlta Phi Phi Gamma Delta .. Delta Phi W L 3 1 ;; 1 2 1 1 2 Sigma Phi ........... 0 4 SOUTHERN LEAGUE Kappa Sigm~ P~I t;p~Ilon Chi Ps,i Kappa Alpha Th~ta DPita Chi .... W I, 3 0 3 0 2 2 1 3 0 4 WESTIO:RN LEAGUE W L Phi Gamma Delta 3, 13Pta Theta NPUtials ......... . 3 0 Pi 2. Alpha Phi Delta . , 3 0 2 2 Kappa Sigma 12, KaJ•PH Alpha 4. Deltn llp~i\nn 1 3' Neutrals 13, Delta Upsilon 10. Delta Chi . - ........ . Kappa Nu 9, Phi Delta Theta 8. Phi Sigma Delta · · · · 0 4 Delta Phi 18, Sigma Phi 8. Psi Upsilon 34, Chi Psi 11. Alpha Phi Delta 12, Delta Chi fl. Horsesilot\.s Beta Theta Pi defeated Theta Nn Epsilon, 21-5, 21-5. Phi Delta Theta defeatt>d Chi Psi 21-9, 21-9. Neutrals defeated I{appa Sigmn (Forfeit). Alpha Ph.i Delta defPatE'!l Theta Delta Chi (Forfeit). Phi Delta Theta deft'ated Delta Chi (Forfeit>. Theta Delta Chi defeated Delta Upsilon, 12-21, 21-15, 21-19. Beta Theta :Pl defeated Kappa Sigma, 21-15, 21-3. Phi Sig!1'1!!- Delta defeated DPita Phi, 21-17, 21-13. NATIONAL I.EAGUE W L Alpha Phi Delta .... 6 0 Phi Delta Theta . . . . 4 2 Chi Psi . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 2 Delta Upsilon ....... 3 3 Theta Delta Chi . . . . 3 3 Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . 2 3 Phi Sigma DE' Ita .... 1 4 DP1ta Chi ........... 0 6 AMI<~HICAN LEAGUE W L Lambda Chi Alpha . 6 0 Beta Theta Pi ...... 4 1 Neutrals .... , ....... 4 1 Kappa Nu .......... 3 2 Theta Nu Epsilon . . . 2 3 Sigma Chi .. . . .. .. .. 2 3 Kappa Sigma () 5 l'hi Gumma Dolta . . 0 6 Av. 1.000 .750 .500 .250 .000 Av. .750 .750 .667 .333 .000 Av. 1.000 1.000 .500 .250 .000 Av. 1.000 1.000 .500 .250 .000 Thursday afte 1 ·noon, for example, . some very definite ideas about the there was Dr. George D. -Kellogg, ·Royal Purple, and I am afraid :that bending the knee, putting his hand ·.they are not very complimentary. up and balancing on one foot with He doesn't care whether or not we Bill Ketz giving instructiqns. \'!'he same thing, we are tol<l; happens win the other meets as long lUI we daily. give the Williams boys a trouncing, Incidentally one of the reasons but altb.o:ugh we would like to our shot putters are going strong pleii,Be him, the outcome of the meet is that Bill Ketz himself \competes\ is stlll very :much in doubt. daily with h~s men. They bet im- aginary purses on each put and be- lieve you me Nag usually gets one or more feet extra when there is a bet on, or Biil puts the brass ball forty feet. Theta Delta Chi vs. Chi Psi; Alpha Delta Phi vs. Sigma Phi; Phi Sig- ma Deita vs. Delta Chi. Eveni.Dg Games Kappa Nu vs. Theta Nu Epsilon; Psi Upsilon vs. Kappa Alpha; Delta Phi vs. Beta 'l'heta Pi; Alpha Phi Delta vs. Della Upsilon. HORSESHOES Monday April 30: Noo-n Games Phi Delta Theta vs. Delta. Phi; Phi Sigma Delta vs. Delta Chi; Alpha. Phi Delta vs. Chi Psi; Kappa Nu vs. Kappa Sigma; Neutrals vs. Theta Nu Epsilon; Beta Theta Pi vs. Lambda Chi A.lpha. Tuesday May .1: I have some dope on the purple tracksters, ba,sed mostly on their last year's best performances. Bill Ketz handed nie this information Wednesday afternoon, and on this and what the Williams Record has to say about the time trials over there last Saturday. I will start by passing on a few facts that I just got out of the Record. That pa.prr says: \The evPnts were all closely contested, and altllough no times or distances ea.n be revealed, thB results augur well for th.e Purple !!bow- Ing in their first meet of the season with Union here on AJ.lril 28.\. From what I llave been able to learn from one of Bill Ketz'-s spies, I will attempt to predict the results of the meet. Don't take this too seriously, !Jecause it is very ha.rd to be very accUJ,'· ate Without a.ny tlme5 made this year to go by. However, here goes: No()n Ga.mes Union Av. Chi Psi vs. Theta Delta Chi; 100 yard dash 5 1.000 Delta Chi vs. Delta Phi; Alpha Phi 220 y>a!'(l dash 3 Williams 4 6 .667 Delta vs. Delta Upsilon. . 440 yard dash 1 . 667 Evening Games 880 yard I'tln . . . . . . 5 .500 Mile run . .. . .. • . .. 8 .500 Chi Psi vs. Delta Phi; Phi Sigma 2 J;D.ile run . . . . . . . . . 8 .400 Delta vs. J?I,J.i Delta Theta. 120 yd. high hurdles 6 . 200 0 220 yd. low hurales 5 .ooo William Broekwehl Named Shot put · · · · · · • · · · 3 Lllscus ......•.... , .. 5 College 'Y' President Again Javelin ........•... 5 1 ~; 0 High jump ........ 7 _ Broad jump . .. . .. . 4 · 800 William Brockwell, '35, was re- Pole vauit ...... · . . 8 · 800 elected president of the Y. M. C. A. • 60 ° Cabinet at a meeting which took .100 place Wednesday .afternoon. Other .400 officin·s for next year ollre: Ralph ;ooo· Semerad, '35, first vice-president;' Totals , ......... 72 8 4 1 1 3 4 6 4 4 2 5 ·i 53 Chi Psi defeated Phi Sigma Delta (l!,orfeit). Delta Upsilon defeated Chi PRi, 21-13, 21-7. Alpha Phi Delta defeated Phi Delta Theta, ~1-:'l', 21•8. Schedul2s :BASEBALL Monday, Ap!il 30, no games. Tuesday, May 1: Noon Games · 000 van Trumbull, · 'SS, second vice- president; Rockwood Jen}tins, '37, secretary; and -Gerard Neumann, '36, treasurer, There will be a meeting of the cabinet next Wednesday at 2:30 in Slll~man Hall to dl\\lcuss activities Pe1•haps I sllould not devote all thiS column to traclt, but I caru10t make these predlctl.ons withoUt som(> word. of explan· ation. Charl~y :Krull should. _do the 100 bi. about 10.4, and that will be good enough to win or\ at ieast a second. I doubt if he can do better than a. second 1n Sigma Chi . de:f~a,teQ. ;Phi. Delta Theta, 16•21, 21--17, 21-14. Sigma Chi vs. Phj Delta. T~eta·; for riext year. tile 220 and he may not be able to get better than a third. I will stand behind thE'Se prt>die- tions, however, and hope that I am justified. The quarter mile looks lilte all Williams. I wa.s conserva- tive in the half. A. P. Walthers should place in there, but being - a conservative, I will take just one place. In the mile and the two mile, the Williams repre- sentatives are their cross COlin- ~ry men. Theil' times last yea.r in these two distances were good, but after the lacing the Garnet handed them in cross- country last fall, I thlnlt we should have little difficulty. I DON'T BELIEVE IT Williarp.s is reputed as having a 16 second high hurdler. Swarth- more was supposed to boast of a 15.4 man. Turner and Waldron were both miles ahead of the Swarthmore man. Alec Turner Is one of the best competitors on the Umon team and I have enough con- fidence in him to feel justified in picking him to win !;loth hurdle races. According to figures, Nag will have to do better than 45 feet to win the shot, and better than 135 in the discus. I give him a second In the shot, but ain certain he can win the discus. He tossed the platter ·over 130 feet Tuesday, and I will take a bet that the Purple thrower cannot do his 135 feet tomorrow. 0 Manhasset Hi to Oppose Frosh Ten Here Tomorrow The freshman lacrosse team will play its first game of the season when they meet Manhasset High School at 3:45 p. m. tomorrow on Library Field. Coach Wyatt, All- American '32, has built up a formid- able squad from the group of men reporting on Day field. Manhasset High has enjoyed a .fairly good season. They have had six games to date, defeating New York Military Academy 7 to 2 in one of them and losing another to Brooklyn Poly 6 to 1. The Long Islanders are coached by J. G. Stranahan, class of '30. Stranahan was a member of the Union team which won the National Champion- ship In 1929, played quarterback on the football team, and ran the quar- ter-mile. The freshmen will line up against the visitors in the following man- ner. Harry Tompkins, goalie; Jack Smith, in home; Ken MacMurray, out home; Hal Vandecar, second at- tack; Don Macinnes, first attack; Ed Fraser, center; Russ Knox, first defense: Don Liffiton, second de· fense; Jack Marsella, point; Dick Kennedy, counter point. Substitutes include Henry Harris, goal; Herb Wilson, Burns Barford, and Pete Walker, attaek; Don Fenton, Har- ris Patton, Bill Potts, Carl Faelten, and Ric Angle, defense. Tennis Court Rules The javelin should belong to any- body, but the Garnet ean be figured . on for two places. It looks llke Williams for a Jirdt In the broad jump, l:mt Burton and Griffing should gran at least a second and 1. Students and Faculty onJy pt·obably a third in addition. shall be permitted the use of the Williams is supposed to have a C()Urts. six foot high jumper. He will have · 2. All players MUST wear to do better than that to beat TENNIS SHOES. (Basketba.Il, Emory Burton, and I don't think and other types of shoes are not he can do better than Turner, but acceptable). I am giving him a tie with our 3. Children of Faculty Mem- captain. Turner has never had to bers shall <be permitted the use do his best in a meet for Union yet. of the courts if any of them are In the pole vault, the Purple _has .. vacant but NEVER to the ex- nobody who can do twelve feet, elusion of the two above named and even if they did, I think either groups. Burton or Griffing each add an- 4. Doubles should be played other six inches to the college rec- whenever possible so as to in ... or<l if they have to. sure use of the c-ourts .to the maximum number of players • .. .. • Dr. Day recently said that a small college conference including such colleges as the Li~tle Three, Bow- doin, Hamilton, Union and Swarth- more would be a fine thing. It cer- .tainly would~ Arnie Friedman, in his column some time ago sal<t that we should not play with the Little Three and· certain other colleges beca.l.iBe they are a Uttle out of our .clMs. I can't .agree with our former sports editor. I would be willing to bet that a majority of our stu- dents would much rather see a Union tea:m defeat the Little Three befor-e licking R. P. I., Vermont, Rochester or some of the other schools that infest this region of ,th~ cot,tntry. If Dr. Day's idea were· carried out,· 1 t,hink, theJt thera woUld be much more interest In sports here. 5. If persons are waiting to play, both singles and doubles m.a;tches are to be permitted to finish their set before vacating . In the event that the set goes to duece, play shall stop at 6-6. 6. Play on Sunday shall be re- stricted :to the hours between 1 and 6 p. m., and all players :MUST be dressed In a CLEAN WRITE costume. 7. Workmen engaged in re- pairing or marking the courts are to be pertniited to complete their task before -play can start. 8. Use of the Indoor court on the gymn>asium floor will be re- served for the varsity squad when inclement weather prohib· its their practice outdoors. 9. The caretaker shall be sole judge as to the use of the eOUl.'ts after rainy weather. _, .. ••\

Six THE CONCORPJ.iENSIS, FRiDAY, :APRIL 27, 1934 Ch .m·· '• ese Off I. CI·.al 'traveler and lecturer, was also a. to the subject. The course, it is o.·Ii,·v· ·et Te' .I'~. ·.s o·f ,N·.ew with rthe individual student as its amination. Admission to .the 4er . guest at Dr. Godshall's h<>me and a believed, will appeal to those stu- . 1 . educational unit, as it feels that an gree of Bachelor of Arts is gained V ·t\.st·ts c .. l.as··.s H e.r e visitor at his Wednesday morning dents already competent in their Ed t• s t educati<>nal system which looks up- by passing the Final Examination. class in American Diplomacy. Mr. fields with some experience in re- . . uca Ion. . y s em on students in terms of groups and Albert is of French parentage and search but desirous of acquiring averages rather than in terms of Normally two academic years has studied at the University of some lmowledge of Russian as a --- uniql.J,e individuals is dealing with· \'ill be spent by the student i'tr·eac:t, Dr. Lum Makes Prediction Cambridge, He has spoken be- tool for investigation in these fields. (Special) hypotl:letical entities rather than Division; but as the College feels • . , ·fore numerous Universities, High current realities. Each student is it undesira;ble to prolong the pro- Chma Wtll Be Big Future Schools and various clubs on Ven-. Two Sections Ji'ollowi.n(5 the ,pa,th blazed by to be allowed to pursue his studies ceases of formal educatian longer rn.,ade Mal~ket fo•· America: ~uela, i.t~ inhabitants, customs a~d There are .to be two sections in Swarthmore, Colgate, and the Uni~ at his own optimum pace. than is necessary provi1;1ion is made . .1.1 ... lts politiCal and economic slgmfi- the c·OUl'Se, one for students who. versity of Chicagn:, .Olive.t College is To this enc1 t.he College is divided for those who in the judgment of canoe in the modern world. have no previous knowledge of rtennovating its machinery in order into a .Junior. Division and a Senior their Tutors are adequately prepar- --- .~-- Russian and one for those who o bring the education it offers· Dl'V·l'si'on. En·t.rance to the Juni'or ed to take the Preliminary Exam- (Continued from Page 1) 0 more nearly into-linewiththe \uses · t• aft f 'd one will be able to travel from Can- M l 0 c · '\l have s<>me. It is believed by Dr. of the world\. Division is based upon :the student's ma ton er one year 0 resl ence. ton to the north of China without · 0Se ey ' n . ·ouncJ, . Cross that those .taking the elemen- scholastic achievement as shown Two years in the Senior Division · t h 1 d t' tary course Wl'll' .be· able ·a• l'·ts con-· The obJ'ect of this new educa- · t's mJ·~•mum resortmg o t . e ong an uesome \ ·bY his high school or preparat0ry L~ ·• route by water.'' On Russian Aff· air. s· .. elusion :to r.ead with ease books. ~ional pr'ogra:tn at Olivet is to af- school record recommendation from .An important pHlar in •the new \China baR a four year plan to in- on their OWl!: .subjects, while the ord the student an opportunity to. the head of his sohooi, together prog~am is the adoption of the --- . ·advanced cour.oe will' enable ~tu- acquire a unified view of mai1'll 'th ''h t t al t E h t d t · dustrialize the Yangtze Basin, one ~ knowledge and to dis~over the bear- Wl \ ·e re.oults of psychological ' ·u or1 . sys em. . ac · s u en , up- of the chief features of which is the Special 12-Week Course in dents to read any modern prose, ing <if the fields of knowledge upon and spholastic aptitude tests. Ad- . on admission to the College, will be construction of about 600 modern besides giving :tUm practical famil-, his own activities; to ·explore and mission is without respect of sex, ·.assigned t<> a Tutor with w:hom tb,e ele~tric plants, and will entail the Russian Language Given iarity with the spoken language. test out his own capacities and! de- age, nationality, color or creed. .student will plan his work for the expenditure of about 80,000,000 dol-. At Harvard This Summer The c<>urse is to a great extent sires, and on the •basis of :an under- .Admission to the Senior Division .Junior Division and who will guide tn Chinese money. the result of American interest in standing of these, to formulate a· is by x:p.eans of the Preliminary Ex- his work in that Division. • · · today in a period of Russia since recognition and an in- plan for his life. ···I Jo;cun,trudiun. Pwfe:;sor Philip Mosely, of the ct·easing realization of the need of Olivet College -is now concerned TTnited States department of history, has been ap- Russian for a complete picture of - ·' '\ great pointed to ·a large advisory com- history, economics, sociology, sci-' task. , •· ~r mit tee composed of leading special- ences or almosi any other branch knows little of modern Russia. Due work of '~ .. \ ists in Russian affairs in the United of education. to the lessening of Russia's contact become a greal . · et · Sta.tos. This committee is sponsor- with the outside world since the for trade especially vv •. · . · ',ed · · t 1 • .,., t d . Speak.ing of the value of study- revolution we are poorly informed States. The .relations· of C1L.. Nith . mg an m e~s ve course in ...,e 8 .u Y 'ing Russian, Pro:l;essor Cross said, t:he United States have been more . of the Russian language to be giVen \Any real development or pvogl:ess as to Russian every day life and tllan cordial in the past years, and • at the 12--weelt summer session ~ in our understanding of Russia de- the aspirations of the Russian every attempt is ·being made to Harvard. A cour.se of 12-weeks m . pends to a tremendous extent 011 the masses.· Many of the recent works keep them so.\ 'Russian is, according to Professor study of native sourc·es on Russia, on Russia are merely the im'pres- Samuel H Cros of H rd U · sions of amateurs. I feel that an In closing Doctor Lum described · . · · .. s. arva m.- including archives, newspap·ers, and vers1ty wh<> 1s m charge of the increased knowledge of Russian t:he intricate system of government ' . · statistics. Of course this study de- course largely an e~p t b t cannot help but promote a better now in ·existence in the Republic of · • . \\ .enmen ! u · mands a knowledge of the lang- China. The main ruling body is the one wh1ch he feels Will be h1ghly. uage. understanding on both sides, since Kuom.ingtang Congress which is successful. it opens the way to more intimate d b 4 \The American public. as a whole contacts between the ~wo peoples \ ma e up of a out 00 delegates sent Two years ago the American His- · ''- · from all the countries wherein torical Society emphasized the need Chinese people live. The members. of training young specialists in . of this Council like Dr. Lum, who eastern European languages for a is a delgate from Hawaii, are all comprehen.Sive study of the source members of the Kuomingtang Party. After November 12 , 1934 the of material afforded by these Ian- . Kuomingtang Party will turn over guages. The American council of t:be reins of government to the Peo- the Institute of Pacific relations, of ples Congress and allow other par- which Newton D. Baker is chair- ties to be formed if the people so man also became convinced of the desire. value· of Russian for studies of ·• The general framework of the Pacific p<>licy and asked Harvard ' government is not unlike our own to cooperate in giving the course .. and carefully blends the best of the The course to be given in the Western ideas of constitutional gov- summer school is designed to offer · ernment with those best applicable an opportunity to those interested to the Orient. in the language but unable to de- LEan Albert of Venzuela, worldvote winter or regular college work VISIT The MOHAWK TAVERN Clams and Oysters OUR SPECIALTY 322 State Street Next to Overhead Cr.ossing :f(f:::m::m:c:m::::::::mm::!::::m::m::::m:::::m:::::::::m::ms::m::m::m:mm:::::::m::mm::m::um:m:::mfii ill ill THE CAZETTE P'RESS PR,INTEilS ~ . I :::mm::;;;;;m:mm::m;m;;:mmm;;;;;;;mm:mmmmm::m;:mmm:::;:m:mm::::m::::::::::m::m:::m::mr:ii Schenectady's Popular Rendezvous GOLD'S. Restaurant - Tap Room - Delicatessen \Elegant Liquid Hardware\ The way tobacco is cut has a lot to do with the way Chesterfield @ -1.9-34, 1.IGGBI\f & MYERS TOBACCO Co, burns and tastes '!here are many different ways of cutting tobacco. A longtime ago, it used to be cut on what was known as a Pease Cutter, but this dark- ened the tobacco, and it was not uniform. The cutters today are the most improved, modern, up-to- the-minute type. They cut uni- formly, and cut in long shreds. The tobacco in Chesterfield is cut right-you can j.udge for yourself how Chesterfields burn and how they taste. Everything that science klW.WS is used to make Chesterfield the cigarette that's milder .•• the cigarette that. tastes better. the cigarette that's MILDER tb,e cigarette that TASTES BETTER L Vo Col I ( Tl pres tion am inve dent that coul of tl stud to t disc· cam ing Tc sug~ regll a dr acti' frat' of 1 stud beli4 leas1 ter 1 of-t< that forn app1 lie VI sho\ •basi. A dire side disc est. cam app1 Tl ing, plea felt he : and a I con< pro' mor wou stud Tl poln tent opin defi: pro' M all este mut or F Phi A bris Clul mor der milE first in l fort som stu<l POUI Tl was the cacl on mig ranc nor1 reac spec Albt in l han· loco ed 1 cra1 ery,: th ( a.m

