• tS lVIountebanks Perform in Albany for Scholarship Benefit VoL, LVIII., No. 22 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRI!DAY, DECEMBER 7, 1934 F·RICE FIVE CENrS Delegates to Model· Council Represent. ~taly and U.S.S.R. Mounteballks in Albany Tonight; Cast for Ibsen Play Announced •. Prof. M. C. Stewar~ Dr. Walter G. Kellogg Will .Assumes Barnes ··y· • •t U . . C ll . s· d Department Duties . lSI .DIOll 0 · ege UD ay Frost and Hall Act for Fascist · Government; Waldron and Olson Uph()ld Soviets Capital City Alunmi Sponso1· 'A Bold Str()}(e for a Wife' For Scholarship' Fund Foote, Co·hen, Haskell, Smith, Stroebel, Helm Chosen for \An Enemy of the People\· The Mountebanks Vlili malte their· The tentative cast for the Mounte- second road appeara:nce of the year. banks prod,uction of Henrik Ibsen'a 'L·. eave. fo'· Wells Colleg.e tonight at the Boys· .Academy in \An Enemy of the People,\ which ... Albany when they pTesent \.A Bold will be presented on February 22, Stroke for a Wife\ ·b:y Mrs .. Susanna 23', and 25, has been announced by Centlivre, under the auspices of the ·Director Edward L. Carroll. Fall Session of Model League Albany Alumni .Association. The Those who have been chosen to Held Today and Tomorrow proceeds will go toward the provid- fill the parts are: ing of a schola1:ship to send some Dr. Thomas Stckmann, Wallace . deserving Albarw boy through col-· Foote, '36; Eilif, Benjamin Cohen, The Leagues of Nations Model ·lege. ·33; Morten, Paul Goldberg, '38· Council Delegation left this morn- The cas~ and. st.agtr creVI left the: Peter Stockmann, Ralph Cohen, h1g to attend the fall session at theatre thls noon. m a bus, . .preceded '37; Morten Kill, George P. Haskell, Wells .College, Aurora-on-Cay~ga, ·by. the newly-purc.hased tra,iler '37; Hov.stad, George W. Stroebel, ~oday and tomorrow. Charles R. whlch transpor~s then· scenery. At · jr., '35; Billing, Ferdinand Helm, jr., Frost '35 chairman and John D. ·Albany, they Wlll rebeal'Se the play, '37; Horster, Arthur J. Firth, jr,, Hall '36' are repr~sentirta Italy . have dinner, and give their per- · '36; and Aslaltsen, Abraham Smith, w.hile Wi,lliam Waldron '35 :nd Cari :formance at 8:30 o'cloclr. '35. Qlson '36, will act for th~ govern- · Wallace Foote and Ralph Coh~n, men.t of the Union of Socialist who play the parts of Colonel Fam- .Characters who 'viii take pal t in Soviet Republics. Dr. Philip· E. well .and Si~ Philip Modelove, re- tho impmtant crowd scene are: Mosely faculty advisor accompan- spectlvely, d1d their park scene to- First citizen, Guy Graves, '37; led the' group. ' gether this morning at a special as- second citizen, Stewart Eisenberg, bl f th h I f th '37; third citizen, John B. Emans, The fa .ll .sess!o· n will ·deal wt'th semdey 0 e uppe:r sc oo o e A · '36; fourth citizen, Harold Fried- the current problems confronting . ca my. ___ 0 ,____ ·man, '37; bystander, Ore! Friedman, the Council. For the Saar problem · b H s \f£ '35; a man, Clark Cummings, '37; a report has been presented by De aters . ave ti another man, R. L. Wilcovitz, '35; Frost, on behalf of Italy. It ap- a working man, Bernard H. Salad, proves the steps taken to ensure a Week-end S:chedul.e '37; another working man, William fair vote at the January 13, 1935, Mulvey, '38; a drunken man, David plebiscite, but is non-committal re- Becker, '36; a man with a horn, garding League action to follow the Derrick A. Sherman, '36; a fat gen- :balloting, since Italy prefers direct Meet Elmira and Syra,cuse To- Ueman, R. L. Royall, '38; and a negotiation !between Ft·ance and night, Tomorrow,· Argue young gentleman, John B. Dowling, Germany over .this problem to '37. League interference. With Middlebury Monday The first full rehearsal will be on Disarmament Debate Friday night, December 14, and the · The Council meeting is expected Tonight the Philo:mathean Debat- second on Wednesday night, Decem- t.Q produce a lively debate on dis- ing Society- will represent the col- ber 19. armament. Discussion will center ll'!ge in a debate with a team from around the Roosevelt draft treaty Elmira College at t.he home of the for regulating private manufacture latter institution. Shephard Recounts Progress of Turkey Dt\ Barnes' Classes Divided Among Three Associates After His Sudden Death ~~--- With College 30 Years Setved as Teacher, Secretary, And Director of Admissions The courses which were taught ·by the late Dr. Frank Coe Barnes \'ill 'be divided among Professor ,\!lor ton C. Stewart, Dr. Robert vv. ..:rowell, and Mr. Kurt von Forst- .11yer, !or the pt eBen!, it was an- :wunced recently by Dr. Hat rison · ). Loi1in, chai1 man of the uJviswn ,f language~ and literature. D1. ... te..va1 t w1H act as tempma1y chair- .. nan of the field of German. Dr. Barnes taught classes until ruesday, November 27, when he col- lapsed in his .office and was taken to his home. He died without te· gaining consciousness, the second ,norning following. He was bu1ied trom his home on the campus on dunday afternoon. The death of Dr. Barnes, early in the morning of November 30, came as a shock to the entire student body, the members of which were at home for their Thanksgiving re- cess an·d many of whom were ignor- ant of Dr. Barnes's passing until they returned to the campus Sunday night. For thirty years he was connected with the modern .language department of the college and has .been its chairman since 1906. Was College Secretary From 1919 until 1932, when ill health forced him to retire. Dr. and trade In arms. Italy opposes Tomorrow night they will meet the American proposal as disad- a team representipg Syracuse Uni- vantageous to industrially backward versity, at Syracuse. Monday night, countries, while the Soviet delega- the second of a series of eight radio tion will back it as a valuable if debates will be held at the studios limited step tGwards armaments of WGY, when 1Jnion will oppose control. The U. S, S. R. is also ex- Middlebury College_ pected to .press for the signature The topic of discussion for both df an ll)~stern Locarno, and, while tonight's debate and tomorrow's publicly repeating its invitation to w:ill he: Resolved: That a System Germany to join in this pact, it of Socialized Medicine Should Be hopes to sign a private agreement Established by the Federal or State with France, to strengthen their Government.\ Uni{)n will uphold new entente. the affil'mative. The Elmira Bombshell Thrown debate will •be hEld folowing a dinner party for the contestants. Sketching the development of Barnes was secretary of the college Turkey since the World War into a in charge of admissions, but he was modern nation, Dr. Lorrin A. Shep- engaged in some kind of admin- hard, head of the American Hospital istrative work from the time he in Istanboul, Turkey, spoke before joined the faculty in 1904. He as- the student body in daily assembly sisted preside11-t Andrew V. V. Ray- Wednesday. He prophesied that mond with the work of admitting within a generation Turkey would z.ew students and was made sec- become one of the important na- reta.ry of the faculty in 1906 and tions of the world: \Turkey is look- this office .Vias enlarged into that ing forward, Joking westward to of secretary of the college in 1919. · A bombshell of undetermined This contest will be a decision con- .potency has been thr(}wn into the test while that at Syracuse will be Council meeting by Yugoslavia's ap- a non-decision affai.r. Representing peal against Hungary's havboring Union will ·be two sophomores, of. Croat revolutionaries, allegedly George Clark Cummings and implicated in the assassination of Richard Carlton s~yder, who ·will King Alexander. Italy's delegates be accompanied by Frederic A. may arrange with France to side- Wyatt, director of dehate. Enroute step this issue, •but, if this effort they plan to visit the high schools fails, they are certain to make a at Cobleskill, Oneonta, Binghamton, spirited defense ()f Hungary's rights and Elmira. and pos!Hon. The Soviet delegation, The contest with Middlebury, knowing a thing or two about revo- scheduled for 11:00 p, m. Monday lutions, is eXpected to look on with ever the WGY ho<lkup has as its tongue in cheek. topic, Resolved: ''That the United The Union delegation to the States Should Adopt a Policy of Model Council has been fortunate Anthony Graves '37 and Carl Olson in sec!lrlng the representation of ·~s .. will defend the affirmative for t,wo great powers. U1uon.. Phi Delta Theta, Founded 1848, Now Largest Fraternity in the Country become one of the most progressive He organized the first student nations in the world.\ press club on the campus, built a The lack of doctors in Turkey system upon which the fraternities has called for a new system of having chapters here took an active medical education whereby the tui- part in the work of matriculating tion, board, and books of medical new students, brought the college students are paid' for by the govern- bulletin into being and established ment for six years. The doctoz the present college bookstore. then serves the government foi four years after graduation, receiv- Helped Increase Eru:ollment ing a moderate salary. In this When Dr. Barnes began his manner the number of doctors in duties as chairman of the admis- Turkey has been doubled. sions committee the total enroll- Because of the recent political ment was 240. When he retired in changes in Germany, Turkey has 1932 the total enrollment annually received many exiled professors and exceeded the limit of 800 set by the teachers from German universities, trustees. much to her benefit. Dr. Barnes was born at Poesten- The growth of the number of kill, Rensselaer county, in 1867, and schools in Turkey and the establish- later m<Jved to Troy, where he ment of a phonetic alphabet indi- studied at the Troy ·High school. cate the progress which is being He was graduated from Williams made in educational lines. Over College in 1887, Vlinning a prize in two million adults under 40 have· classics, German honors and Phi been enrolled in the schools, for Beta Kappa. He then studied at education has become compulsory. Leipsic and elsewhere in Germany, The soCial order ha.S also been First of Seven Newly-Appointed llonorary Fellows 'Vill Spend Several Days at Un.i()rt for Informal Contacts With Literature St11dents Dies Suddenly DR. FRANK COE BARNES Hawley and Smith Elected to Council Council Selects Two Freshmen To Represent Class of '38; Votes Dance for March 9 Two members of the Class of 1938, Frederick B. Hawley and Vincent Smith, were elected to the Student Council at a meeting of that 'body Wednesday evening. Hawley, a Chi Psi pledge has al- ready won distinction •by capturing the fall tennis tournament cham- pionship. He is a graduate of Kent School where he was captain of the tennis team. Hawley is a member of the Choir and Glee Club. Smith, who has pledged Phi Delta Theta, graduated from Nott Terrace High School where he was president of his class for two years. The Council voted to hold a dance in the Alumni Gymnasium March 9th following the alumni basketball game. Ralph Semerad, chairman of the Council, appointed Robert North '36, Raymond MaGDowell '35, and James Doyle '37 to investigate the possi·bility of holding dances after some of the other home games. Guy Griswold '36 suggested that 13occer be innaugerated as a minor sport and volunteered to secure de- finite information about coaching posE;ibilitks and the securing of schedules. HAD VARIED CAREER Honorary Fellow in Letters Has Been Lawyer, Educator And Novelist First of the seven newly-appoint- ed honorary fellows, Dr. Walter Guest Eellogg, famous lawyer, edu- cator, and novelist, will arrive Sun- day afterno-on to spend a short time in residence on the campas to confer informally with students and faculty members interested in his field of experience. As honotary fellow in letters, Dr. Kellogg will lecture in Bailey Hall lecture room Monday at 10:20 o,clock and again at nine o,clock Tuesday morning. The subject of these talks has not been announced. To MeE't English Ma.jors All students majoring in English are invited to meet informally with Dr. Kellogg on Monday evening at President Fox's house. They will discuss the problems facing stu· dents of literature today, and relate them to the social and intelle~tual trends of the outside world. Dr. Rellogg has had a wide ex- perience in the field of law, liter- ature, and· education. He attended Union College for one year, during which he was president of his class, and then transferred to Columbia to graduate with the class of 1899. His law practice began in Ogdens- burg. Later he practiced law in New Yorl1 City, and since 1922 he has been special counsel for the General Electric Company. Prob- ably his most important work has been his fourteen years of active service as regent of the University of the State of New York. He is the author of several historical novels and numerous magazine articles, During tlle war he was appointed chairman o.f a board of inquiry on conscientious objectors. The fruits of this investigation were collected in a book on the subject of con- scientious objecting. The trustees of the College have appointed seven of the twelve bon· orary fellowships authorized for this year. 'They are, in addition to Dr. Kellogg, Henry Seidel Canby Ph. D., Lilt. D., editor of the Satur~ day Review of Literature, honorary fellow in letters; Harry Willson Watrous, N. A., president of the National A.cademy Association, hon- orary fellow in art; William LeRoy Emmet, Sc. D., engineer and au- ~hor, honorary fellow in. englneer- mg; James Emmet Finegan, presi- dent of the Municipal Civil Service Commission of New York City, honorary fellow in government; and GeorgE Herbert Daley sports editor of the New York Her'ald Tri- bune, h<Jnorary fellow in athletic sports. By ALAN VAN WERT Phi Delta Theta. was founded at than forty-one th()usand members; Miaini University, Oxford, Ohio, in 3.nd ene hundred and six chapters 1848. It is tb,e second fraternity of ·3cattered throughout the United th,e famed M]al:ni Triad. States and Canada from coast to changed, and woman's place is no ,(Continued on Page 4) l<>nger subordinate to that of the ------------------------------- man. Jrlodern Frosh-Soph Scraps Are Tame The fouil'd~s· were Robent Morri- ~oast. Because of the freuent co:n· son, John McMillan Wilson, Robert ventions since the inception ot the Thonip~on .Drake, John Walfe Line!'- fraternity, an.d the numevous ley, Ardivan Walker Rodg.ei:s, and alumn1 clubs \vhich are located in Andrew Watts Rogers. They sought more than one hund.red cities, the to form a mo1e perfect union and fraternity has gain.ed great internal to attain in the .highest degree of strength, and has kept its alumni menta:! culture, an<L the highest loyal to the Bond, stariuard of morality, by organiz- ing Phi Delta Theta. At that time, Morvison· and Drake were in their twenty--seventh years, Rodgers lri his twenty-fifth, Wilson and Rogers in their twenty-fourth, and Lindley in his twenty-third. They were of advanced ages for students·; their characters t9 a great extent had al~ New York Beta was est9blishecl nt Union on Decern·ber 3, 1883. Thr first home of tbe fratemity in Schenectady was a suite of two rooms on lower State street. The present house is ·ef:ghteen. years old, and a fourth floor was added to· the structure in 1929. ready .been formed. They were old The fraterpity, at ·present, is enough to recognize what should be under the able guidance of Judge the ·Oibjects of an Ideal brotherhood William C. Bayes of New York City, and to formulate well considered who proved his .ct3,pability by serv-. plans fo:J: its government. 'fhey or- ing as Treasurer of the General ganized a society with serious pur- Council for th.e· past four ye;ars, poses in view. Not as youthful The Walter E. Pa:Imer Foundation enthuSiasts, ·but as men of maturity, assures the fraternity of a con- th~y began the work of develop-· stant source of in.~ome and the in- ment. terest fi·om this trust may be used Since the founders decided on· a for building p\lrposes, loanf! to policy of. expansion, Phi Theta has Alumni chapter organizations, or to· become, in the eighfy-fow: years of unclergraduate members of the its e~lstence the largest fraternity fraternity who are in need of finan.- iq tht~ .countJ•y, T~e1•e are more ciaL a.a2lstance. · CALENDAR Daily Asse:!::;or~:~\E. E. cum- Compared With 'TheRush 'of Eighties. mins, \New Trends in the NRA\ Sunday ll:OD-Sunday Service in Memo- rial Chapel, Rt. Rev. G. Ashton Oldham; Bishop of Albany Diocese. 4:00--0rgan Recital by Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Memo- rial Chapel . Monday 10:0(}--Student Body Meeting, Oid Chapel. 10:20--Talk by Dr. Walter ·s. Kellogg, in Bailey Hall. 7:30--Philomathan Society Meet- ing, Old Chapel-Band Re- hearsal, Gymnasium. 8:00--English Majors meet with . Dr. Kellogg, President's House. 11:00--Debate, Union vs. Middle- bury, broadcast by WGY. 9 :00--Ta~k by Dr. Walter S. Kellogg, in Bailey Hall. Tuesday Daily Assembly-Dr. E. j, Berg, speaker. By VEDDER. M. GILBERT Until recent years there has a!• to reach his room where he believes ways been some form of Freshmen- that he will be safe the door of his Sophmore scraps. The .paint fights fortress is beaten in and the green and rope pulls have from time to occupant is thoroughly trounced. time <Jffered themselves for exciting It is very important that these competition, but such scraps are ma·nouvers should take place in the tame in comparison to the famous, presence of sophisticated upper- thrilling, virile, brutal combat classmen, who, throughout the pro- lmown to the tt·embling yearlings cedure tenderly nurse their new of the 'eighties as \The Rush.\ born beards. The rules governing \The Rush\ Union's predecessors have given are simple, The freshmen are de- .the college records of \The Rush.'' tained in chapel while the sopho- ~n these rec!)rds are accounts of mores banded together in front of how in 1880 when there were but the do0or. Dismissed, the greenies forty members in the sophomore file out into the hands of the sophs class and sixty in the freshmen dele- who yell, \Rush! Rush!!\ thus gation it was deemed wise to dis- scaring the unsuspecting frosh, pense with \The Rush\ since there who by that time are so frightened was unequal competition. that they are unable even to speak. A year or so before 1880 inequal- ity was overlooked. \A small frosh When the yearlings are properly weighing about 190 pounds,\ reads conditioned the real rush begins. an old Concordiensis, ''rushed upon Clothes are torn, caps S;re stolen, ·.a. soph of 90 pounds. The frosh fisti~ combats are in order. The seized his man, hurled him to the object o{ \The Rush\ is to C'!:lase grouncl, .and sat upon him.\ \The freshmen across tile campus. If, by Rush,\ therefore, proved to be an some trick of fate, the frosh is able over-powering success. Bish()p Oldham of Albany Is Sunday Chapel Speaker Rt. Rev. G. Ashton Oldham Bishop of the Albany Diocese of the Episcopal Church will be the guest ]>reacher at the worship serv- ices Sunday morning at eleven o'clock in tlle Memorial Chapel. Bishop Oldham has been very ac- tive in promoting the cause of world peace, having made several preaching tours in England and on the continent in the interest of in- ternational friendship: The closing sentences of his sermon at a mass meeting In Washington, D. C. in 1924 have been widely publicized on posters under the slogan \America First.\ Born in Sunderland, England, Dt'. Oldham came to .America. when a young boy. He was ordained: Dea- con in 1.905 and Priest In 1906 . .After serving as curate at Grace Church and St. Thomas Church in New York City he became rector of St Luke's Cl:turch, New York and late; St. Ann's Church, Brooklyn.. He was consecrated a Bishop in 1922 and becax:ne Bishop of the Albany Diocese in 1929

-o./ I I ., Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, :1:934 THE COLL!l:G:E WORLD last year is not an argui11ent either for ·oi·l against the continuance ·Of the .society. Previ- ous editorials in this column were based upon , By FEEII' :F.I!llDl\IAN an investigation of Eta Kappa Nu entirely !!===========;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;=====:;;===;:;;;;;;==;;;;;!I . AROUND THE WORLD By RICHARD SNYDER separate from that made last year. William Randolph Hearst arid his one phase of the· college world's Pre-war balance of power policies Whether or not Eta Kappa Nu \was chain of seventeen great, AMEl:R~ :at:J:ack on Hearstianism-Mr. Hearst and .alignments are very ml;lcll: in lOAN, ''for~the-people-wh.o-Uiin.k\ •is- sci fond of those isms. The evidenee today. Hitler is trying· to .singled out to satisfy the investigation newspa,pers have become, for tl!e ;sy.raeuse Journal recently sent two set Poland and Japan against Rus- mania,\ \Ve cannot say. The motiv.e of an in- time, the butt of editorial criticism •Vepc>rters disguised as students who sia, and France is claiming to have in almost every college peri<Jdical ·in ·professedly wished to enter Syr- the support of the Russian army in \.tl. Oausa l'or11a Parole .ABsai\ FouNDED 1877 MEMBER ~sochtd @'ollt.oiatt 1art!i5 ...;; 1934 (to~~~~est 1935 ..- MADt.SOt~ YIISCOHSIH Sole and Exclusive National Advertising Represen- tative National A(iVei:tislng Service, Inc., 11 West 42nd St., N. Y. C., 400 No. Michigan Ave., •Chicago, ·. quiry does not altel' the facts found. Why the country. It has been maintained acuse University to interview the case of war with Germany. In ad- we pick up a rotten eg-g does not change its that college students-at least so:r:ne ·:·head of the school of Education,· dition, czechoslovakia, Rumania, of .them-are also just a little int-er- .Dr, John N. Washburne, and that and Jugoslavia, backed .by France, : sn1ell. ested .in their country; perhaps not 'night came .out With a banner head· are opposing Hungary and Italy Illinois. The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Publis·hed Tuesdays and Frictays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. l\ 1 Rh d t k t · t l h as much as Mr. Hearst and his :and: a story coveiing half the front under the guise of a dispute over l l'. · oa · es oo· grea pams 0 S 1 OW OW thoroughly AMERICAN newspapet·s · page ·accusing Dr. Washburne of ,the recent assassination of King Eta Kappa Nu helped its members to g-et but enough to warrant their tilllidly communism and of being a pro- Alexander. Finland is courting the .. ·. J\.obs and to show the hi~rh opinion which pl'O- questioning one or two of tlle state-, JTioter of radicallsm. Dr. Wash- favor of the United States by pay- ~ ments and policies of a 1:ea.lly . ,outne immediately branded the a<!-' .ing her war debt because she con- fessional n 1 en had for the society. \Their ardent AMERICAN. Merely S() th~t · !ccusatlon as a product of yellow stantly fears Russian intervention. Publication Off.ice, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 they can learn and copy fro1n him ':jburnalism and an out1·ight lie, and • * * . opinion is what counts; there is no denying of course. ~the· Symcuse Daily Orange began The Roosevelt-pioposed Draft this fact.\ Our humble opinion has it that a: About three weeks ago ·one or bvo !a striD:g. of editorials deno.uncing T~eaty for the :International Con- Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription ·price Five cents a copy; $3;00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Clemens F. Hathaway .•.•...•.. Editor-in\Chie! Chi Psi Lodge-4·6527 Joseph A. Woolman .......... Managing Editor Kappa Nu House-4·7331 William H. Fitzgerald .•..... Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-4·7922 Milton A. Berger .•..•........•... Sports Editor Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Thornton W. Whipple ..... Circulation Manager Chi Psi Lodge\-4-6627 J1.1nior Board Vedder M. Gilbert .............. Feature Editor -~---=P:...:s::.:.i_U.ccp::.;silon Houae-4-8710::., ---- ASSOCIA.TE EDITORS John D. Anderson Robert C. North Albert H. Stevenson VanVechten Trumbull Sophomo1·e Board .Assistant Editors M. Bedell S. R. Cohen R. Doolittle F. Feldman VV. Ferguson W. Horstmann F. Gage R. Passenger C, Garrison R. Snyder G. Haskell N. Stewal't Issue Editor ..•.•.•........ Van Trumbull Assistant Issue Editors N. Stewart R. Passenger Friday, December 7, 1934 DR. FRA:NK COE BARNES Those of us in the student body vvho have taken courses under the late Dr. Frank Coe Barnes can vouch for the integrity and thor- oughness of his teaching. We do not feel that any higher tribute could be paid to a member of the faculty than the foregoing statement. For thirty years Dr. Eames was connected with Union, always giving everything he had for its advancement. He saw, and was in- strumental in the expansion of the fraternity system of the college which took place dur- ing the first twenty-five years of this cen- tury. The development of the present .sys- tem of cooperation between the colleges and th.e fraternities in rushing is dh·ectly trace- able to his efforts. It is known that the duties of an instru{;- tor do not end with Commencement in June; the summer vacation must be sp~nt in gain- ing further knowledge for the enlargement of course for the undergraduates during· en- suing years. Dr. Barnes was a perfed exam ple of the ideal1nernber of the faculty. Dur- ing his younger da;ys much of his time was spent in summer study. Always firm in his conviction of the value of the study of the German tongue, an al'ticle written by Dr. Barnes in 1917 caused much heated discussion, for during the hysteria of the World War he made a strong plea for the continuance of German in the curricula of the schools. The soundness of his plea was verified later, after the war, when schools realized that they had deprived many of their students of a thorough grounding in a language that is of gTeat importance in the study of sciences and literature. IF ETA KAPPA KNEW! of the colleges who disag 1 :ee .w fth :!the pollcres of the J()urnal wrth •one tr ol of Arms, sent to Geneva after g-ood engineer is a good engineer with or Mr. Hearst a little more tlian. the ; ,e;nti tied , \The Journal Stoops to the rec.ent . scan·dal in. munitions W ·r'tllOllt all Eta I'appa Nli pl'n Cr·eanl \''1'1·1 !'est-they go so far as to say that. ,(Co,n, quer .= • . c_?mpames_, ~~ totally Wltho~t teeth. · • • \. · · 1 ' · • '·. the word American when used in., The JoUinal. sent reporters pos- smce It provides no mec.ham~~ foi rise or murder will out, (whichever way 0ne connection with Mr Hearst sho-.!ld i lng as prospective students to .spy enforcement ·except public opmwn, ' \allts to put l··t). \ixre doUl't l'f any einn. loyel' not always be capitaiized-publishe& L~>n <the well-known educational T t' \' * * t f E .h ·v u P h t t k' th t. ;n.sychologist to try to force him to he na JOnal governmen o ng- a s or no e as 1ng e .grEa ,,... ' · . . ·r d th t d b h. L ·b · P icks an engineer mere!\ because he belongs AMERICAN to answer ·a :Eew-:·rn~ke statements mto wh1ch they an • r~a ene Y eavy a: or \ t' hi h di tl II.· c<>uld insinuate a damaging inter- party gams, plans, between ·now to an honorary society. ~l!es 1 ~ns '; c f' r~~ ; f~nc~rn~ '.pretation ·and the paper printed in and next spring's: Royal Jubilee 1 ~. a~on e ~~esi e- ~ ·opcf,;every on~ of that night's editions when patriotic fervor will ·be at its The woxk of Eta Kappa Nu men calibra- na 1ona~~:· t \ t co .~~~s, No ,;the alleged verbatim conversations height, to work up an impressive ting meters is highly commendable. For such ~urset ~ t no 1 w~n ~ ~~~ Jc~e.- r.,which were held under false pre- war .scare just before holding a ears, u on Y o ge . e ·OJ?llll<JilS, tenses ·general election. Result: when the work they should receive FERA checks, and of so well a real AMERICAN,. and. · · B ·'t' h bl' · f · ht d 't 1 tu modify their own to fit then·. '@E' \The essence :of democracy IS n JS pu Ic ·IS ng; ene 1 a • HOt have to pay dues for the .privilege. tl t 11 '.f'r.eedorn .for people who do not ways votes conservative. course- la was a: • '.agree with system. But when . .* * · \' -- 'Hearst, America's fanatic No. 1, : ... A;mba~sado~. Damels ':\as ~ailed a One of two college newspapers-';gets excited about communism or ' llvmg msu~t to ~eXICO m 1933. only this time it seemed that the':socialism; freedom of speech, Toda~, he lS cheered because he ATHLETICS AS A SAFETY VALVE t h d d d t ~:.freedom of thought or any of the , h.eartily approves of the Mexican one or wo a expan e o severa,., siX-year-plan hundred with large headlines oo.·~tenets of democracy are forgotten ; · ,. * ,. the subject-published .the ans'VIeF!;Ln his ,puffing and wheezing.\ Japan w1U no longer concede Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, at the opening of his of the great American, a thesis \'by'' .naval superiority to the United address before the Schenectady Alumni din- \\'illiam Randolph Hearst .on ln1:cr-: 'I'he next day the Daily Orange States. President Roosevelt is pre- r.ationalism and Nonsense.\ Some'publlshed at the head of its editor- pared for the repudiation of the ner for the seniors on the football squad, of the pape1·s editorialized on the: ial' columns a black-bordered con- Washington Treaty, and plans a d hl . f t l f reply, gently taking Mr. Hetb·st up'idolences notice, extending its \deep- tremendous naval-building prog·ram state that at et1cs act as a sa e y va ve or f h- kl · s ':On some o IS points, and rnee y';est sy.IIlpathy to. the yracuse that Japan, in her :present economic American youth. No truer statement could 'chiding him for not answering aEl:!Journal, the ed:itors of which are' position, cannot possibly equal'. :of the questions put to him. ,evidently faced with such a paucity '\ * .. have been made at a more appropriate time. Said the Daily Princetonlan, \Lo. fof news tl1at an insignificant in- In a world seething with interna- By actual count there were only two students reply to honest inquiry, he :has;[terview with a .political science pro- tiona! discord, there is, very for- g-iven a Hearstian harangue in-';fessor .earns a banner head and tunately, one note of optimism: not representing- football in attendance at .tended for people who think. He. half the front page. We hesitate to Mussolini has temporarily given up the dinner. has not answered a single lu.nd-:•think what an important story his bold program of irredentism for arnental issue in the letter we sen~~: -would wa1•rant.\ at least ten years. Unfortunately conditions made it impos- him ... \ Why Mr. Hearst! .Are:----~---------------------­ you really not an American? ·C>nl:,.:: sible to give the dinnex any publicity in this an American, in lower-case lette1s? newspaper, bu.t the fact remains that the The Princetonian continues:\. . For our humble ~art th€ system' dinner was announced with the .speakers in that Hearst upholds, and hope with The Concordiensis of November 27. The local all the fervor of ythich we ate capa·ble that those whom Eearslt newspapers carried completely descl'iptive .does not sway will some day srx1ite t . 1 th t tl d f th d' .the system such a tel'l'ible :b1ow as Hl' IC es 011 e even ·le ay 0 . e Inner. to leave nationalism and competi- All year long- the student body is willing to tive arguments only a bitter :and. l I II f 1 h II nausening mem01y.\ · pay 10mag-e to t re at l etes o L e co ege The open letter incident was only \vhile they are on the field, yet axe reluctant to fete them when such an occasion as Tues- day's dinner arises. The gathering was completely athletic ; the PUNCTILIO H • I principal speaker was a sports authority, J. B. D. has gone ag:Jin, and t:me Bill Corum, writer of a column for the New we are to toot onr litt.le tin tr~nn-, 1 pet for your entertainment. If only York Evening Journal. ,Unfortunate Y every this were a \dirt\ column! It's sG student cannot perform with the varsity much easier to be amusing when' one is 1na!ignant. squads in competition with outside teams. • * * Yet it is almost natural for American youth Sentence Portraits froin ()lJJ' pri-· . . vate gallery. to have an innate mterest m ,sports. 1. He wears glasses, has lots o·f, vVhen the pressure of studies or other opinions and no infor:rnation,. quotes Shelley and calls it Keats, • occupation becomes too g-reat, the wise stu- gives the prof cigarettes, and wo1:a-: dent turns to some form of athletic endeavor ders why he get::; a fourth grnd.e. 2. They are all flunking m:iljo·l' to refresh himself. Thus do athletics act as courses: they have earnest face:s a safety valve for youth, preventimr them .end glasses ·of beer; they sit are>un<l . ~ a table and aslt one another if the::y from g-oing too stale on any occasion. Surely he!1eve in God. · h 'l I 3. She is noisy as a phonograph, we can do no better t an to ava1 ourse ves graceful as a saw-horse, conceite-d of such an opportunity to protect ourselves a!> a prima donna, intelligent as n' fence-post, good-natured as a JlO!:'- from the doldrums. When a group of stu- cupine, and a mighty hunter-of dents such as the varsity athletes of a col- males. • • , lege willingly carry the laurels of their alma Columns! columns! \.Colle;;:\e World\ now enlightens ollr be-· mater into combat, it is only fitting that the nighted intellects with a slow sue-: student body should make a more conscien- cession of slolid sentences. Es,. Es, & Bee give weekly spoonfuls of th:e tious effort to pay homage to them at din- syrup of publicity to tllose -the:y ners held in their honor. think worthy of ptrblic nourlshrnen t. ·• Farrago\ runs the gamut of FROSH PEERADE REVIVAL quality from very good to ver-y ba.d·• and back again. Despite the above crack we think Es, Es, & :Bee clo a very laudable jo·b, and the saJD.e may be said for Geebee. The Student Council is considering the·re- . In our daily* p;re;rinations fro101 viva! of the Frosh Pee1·ade, which was drop- class to class It has been born upe>n our nostrils that every building c.n pcd from the college calendar three years this campus carries its own dLs· ago. As a novelty to those who have never tinctive stench, or, to be tactful, fragrance. The interior of Ba!ley witnessed the spectacle, it is worthy of re- Hall smells gently but flrml:y of vival. On the other hand if the freshmen burnt hair and an elderly bo-g. Which, of course, we may la:y.to.the must be taxed separately for the event, it large numbers of Camels sm<Jked will be useless to revive the Peerade. As soon within its walls. Washburn Hall is' vaguely reminiscent of an 11naired as the freshman class is taxed for something clothes closet, minus the noth•balE.s. By Long Distance telep'hone, a sales executive recently ~~covered\ more than 153,000 miles in three business days. He spent a total of eight hours in talking with his agents in 194 cities- using Sequence Calling Service. This service enables subscribers to place with the Long Distance operator any number of calls on which they wish to talk consecutively. Con- nections are completed rapidly with a minimum wait between calls. North College may have been aired a wave of opposing enthusiasm springs up once, probably by Eliphalet Nc.tt jn The gently blistering remarks about The making the event worthless and lacking in 1840 or perhaps one of Dr. Ligon's· much-experimented-upon rats·passed Concordiensis made by the president of Eta color. The last Peerade given by the mem- out in an obscure corner. The ..c: Secruence Calling is just one of the many se1·vices developed to gear the telephone more and more closely to business· needs. Why Qot vi~it your folk~ tonight .... by · telephone? For a lot of pleasure ot. bargain rates, use..:station- to~ ·· Kappa Nu in assembly recently were worthy bers of the senior class wws supported by less E. Building sniffs dry, l!k.e a mummy, while the Chapel ·is full of a better cause, than the defense of an hon- than a half dozen fraternities. of the odor of sanctity and vanils.l!. orary electrical engineering fraternity. In Like everything else, an affair such as the Theme song.of ~ho~e wel=owtoo Mr. Rhoades we find a foeman worthy of our· Frosh Peerade needs constant bolstering in ...... en. t I t . f th t f \· · d ' We love our teacli'ers, this wo• s ee , a mas er o e ar o msmuen o, ' order to be continued satisfactorily to the know, and we gladly ta:ke issue with him. student body. The Stud.ent Council will have And we take care to tell tbeoo S(); The fact that Eta Kappa Nu escaped the to back the spectacle fully in order to war- We ~~:~~~.each teacher's speech in general clean-up of the honorary fraternities rant its revival. And keep a rag to shine tb.e a]ple, · And that settles that! -\Ei Ei • .station service after·· 8:30P.M. SYSTEM. II( At Bill \Tl: a co scrim decla ist of addr~ Schei honoJ foocb Hotel Mr. woulc Of tl: tainn the p of pl: tests. surp~ the supel comr they .~·ear, ably, even pose' •binai Ge New centl in A dinn of hi this high neve prov out!E HE AlUI ·bacll givii seni• pz·ec resp enjo a b2 P1 Mr. spor pro' spir: mos Lati com out! leti< coil• den· a C wa:r thUi nea ago Stu· qua eve: tall: naiJ Inc ere· pro .by f!).S' ver roo the pof I pol sio: pet Da atE wil fur pre of ca.1 m< of me B 0 l teJ inl na $4, wl in. ov 111: a ra Bl m S< ac UI Ul to Ul it· n ft b1 m u: u r' Ir ic S] f( a d

ies in to us- lve in ad- lia·, LCe, aly ver ing the •ay- on- •n. ·aft on- 'ter ons eth for m, .ng- :bor lOW ilee its ;ive ' a 'the al~ ~d a 933. he can !ede !ted pre- the s a ram mic rna- for- .sm: L up for .n lt h Is tl· THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7,1934 Three 1 : Io .. n. ··or· Sen·I·or. Football Men .. Sw.im. me~s to B.old. Basketeers Play E'x-High Ralph Semerad Wins Recognition On · . . . .. B T· d Initial Time Trials School .Stars in Pt·actice Several All- American Football Teams At Alumni : .. anq. uet . ues. ay... -- . The varsity basketball team will 1$------- play a practice game with the local G' H bl M t• b B k M k 11 D 'd p t , Only Two Lettermen On the All-American team tomorrow after- IVen · onora e en IOn Y ac s- ac ore , . av 1 son; e ·er- ., F son, Wash.; Turley, Ohio Wesleyan; Bill Corum, Sports Columnist, Predicts Future oot-. Squad; Men Conditioning noon at two o'clock in the Alumni Associated Press; On Little Hanson, No. Dakota State. E h S l f Gymnasium. ball Will Combine American, 1 nglis • ty es 0 : Selves for Opening Meet The All-Americans are a group of All-American Second Team Second Team-Ends~Davis, Bir- G D l ,92 • T t f h' h h 1 t - 1 d' mingham Southern; Tayhor, Davis Play' .. !, ·eo·t·ge i 3· ey, 'lS· .·oastmas er --- ormer Ig. sc 00 s ars, l11C u mg . Podbielski, Sequin, and Mahoney. & Elkins. Tackles-Kellam, Trinity; By MILTON D. BEDELL Fast cagey players, they are expecl- Ralph Semerad, versatile quarter- Styda:har, West Virginia. Guards- ed to keep the Garnet men .on their back of this year:s football eleven, Brown, Western State; Mackey, toes. is continuing to appear on All- Emory and Henry. Center-Jim \The football·of the future will be ·c· S d L With more than a month temain-. a combination of the Amelican age qua . oses ing before their first meet with scrimmage and tne English 1ughy,\ N• h } dP • Colgate the swimming team will declared Bill L:m·urn, spar ts cojunm- ··c () San . . flZJl.ar begin serious training tomorrow. ist of the New York Journal~ in lus when the first trials Will ·be held. address at the ·annual dinner of the --- To date the men have been condi- · :Schenectady Alumni Associatwn in Eligibility Rules Take Toll; tioning themselves in preparation Union's lineup for the practice American selections covering the Martell, Bluefield. Quarterback- game will have McDowell and Mi- country. He was rir:st given honor- Ralph Semerad, Union. Half.bacl;:s lana as forewards, Van Waldron, able mention on the official Associ- ·-Sexton, Ft. Hays (Kan.) Teach- center, and Semerad and Moffet, ated l:'ress All-American grid team. ers; Arrabide, Whittier. Fullback guards. Rotunda and Brandow will The latest 1ecognition of Ralph's ~Walter Froelich, 'l'ufts. also see plenty of action. prowess comes through the observ- · honor of tne seniors of tne Union for a. ,gruelling campaign. Coach foo~;ba:ll team Tuesday night at tile Lack of Experienced Re- Leonard has requited the squad to ----•0•--- ations of Associated Press writers Notes On Our Contemporaries NOTES ON CONTEMPERARIES Hotel Van Curler. N't 1 perform various exercises before Mr. Corum added that this ·step serves Worries 1 C tman starting the daily grind of building G Cl b H M • throughout the country. He has erman U as OVIeS,. been selected by these men as the Slides at Meeting Tuesday quarterback on the Little All-Amer- ican Second Team. would make for the greater satety : up speed and endmance. !lf the players, the greater enter- . The stock of the vavsity basket• During the past week longer and tainmeht of the spectators and for • ball team has talten a considerable faster laps have been .predomina11t the possibility of ·a greater number· drop as a result of the recently is- in preparation for the time trials. \We Go .A:l-ong the Rhine,\ a of players. par.t!ci·pating in the con- . sued .eligibility lists. Mike Priznar, The squad at present seems to .be travel film with sound wa.s the tests. The fuglish, he pomted out, one of Coach Nels Nitchman's de- fairly well rounded out a:Jth 0 ugh feature ·offering of the program surpass the Amex:icans in handling pendable reserves, was lost to the the loss of \Boom\ Schuman, Gordie presented by the German Club in the ball, while the latter are: squad as a result of the scholastic Neese, Bob Oppenheim, Joe Maney, Old Chapel, Tuesday evening, be- superior .in scrimmage plays. He report. Bud Nichols, who showed and Frank Squires leaves only two fore a sizeable audience of towns- commended the new rules because· l~ttermEm on the squad this year, people, faculty and students. they \opened up\ the game this. ~~':~r~~~lropf~~:I\ a~ Guy Griswold, sprint man and c::sl·lmirt At. ~e~l·antdowski '3t8h, gal.vfe .l'eat, redueed casualties consider-: captain of the 1934-35 swimming an I us ra eu . ec ure on e I e necessary to leave school. Left d k f R' h d w d ably, and paved the way for the. with a ten-man team including team, and Bill Keens, who will do an wor o 1c ar agner an even more open .play that the pro- · d the diving for the Garnet tankmen. Philip E. Duchscherer '38 played Posed ru mby-Amer·1·can football com-· three relatively inexpenence soph- tl . \Das Lied Abendstern\ at piano . \' ld - t d omores,. the hoop mentor is on pre-· liS year. selection from the op'era \Tann- •binatwn wou ' m ro uce. ca:rious ground in his second ca;m- Griswold Fast hauser\ by this composer. The Daley Is Toastmaster paign. Captain Griswold is an extremely president of the club, Richard E. George Daley, sports editor of the! He· has a fine pair of scoring for- fast man in the sprints. Last year Passenger '37, presided. New \lork Herald-Tribune and 1 -e- wards in Captain Ray McDowell during practice and in meets he Mr. Kurt von Furstmeyer, advisor cently appointed Honorary FeHow and Joe Milano. To relieve them came close to equaHing the present to the club, introduced the travel in Athletic Sports, presided at the he may send in Bill Brandow and records in the fifty and hundred- film with a few words in English dinner as toastma.ster.ln the course· \J•iggs\ Rotunda, short in stature, ·yard events. Keens proved last on the natural beauties of the of his remarks he said: \So long as but .smooth in ball-handling. Van year that he has ability by placing Rhineland, also describing its nat- this country has football and its Waldron \is assured of the center next to Schuman in nearly every ural resources and agiicultural 'high interest in all spmts it will position, with Joe Milano ready to meet. He has shown up well in potentialities. The film began with never turn communistic. ::;ports step in the pivot position if it be practice and will undoubtedly be the upper Rhine and followed it provide the needed and necessa 1 y necessary. Union's best diver. iownst1eam through the Black outlet to our emotions.\ The starting guards will be Ralph Besides Griswold, the dashes will Forest and Odenwald to Heidelberg S d J k ff B find Mal Griffing and Hotaling and Frankfort Many scenes of the He commended the Schenectady emera and ac Mo ett. ut · · Alumni Association because \it is here there is a problem. As re- battling their way through the various parts of the famous stream th th th h waves. Grif has improved over last were taken from th edeck of a river •back of a sound and sane idea in serves ere are e ree sop - · J k T\ kl K B year's form and is cutting through steamer. Besides the natural beau- giving a dinner each year to the omores, ac m e, en rown d R C \th t · the water at a fast clip. The dist- ties which have been the inspira- seniors of the football squad in ap- an ay asey, w 1 ou any expert- ance events w1'll see the return of Ce 1 ·n 1· ter lie ·ate c· cles tion of innumerable poets, such p1·eciation of services· given, and .ir- en n co g 1 lr · MaUlS stearns who was unable to respective of whether the team has CGouple this withh the facth thatw·thde compete last year due to illness. :-a~~~sacpiptieeasr aeds Kasoeplna,rtCoobfletnhze aennd enjoyed a good year or ex..perienced arhet opens t e season ere e - M h h f . th - d - t th d t aus as s own great orm m e te 1 ·taining journey. a bad one.\ nes ay agams e secon mos pool and, with Faelton, Fraser, and formidable op.ponent on the sched- The program ended with the Subsidized Athletics uie, Clarkson Tech. Clal'kson will Poggenpohl, should make a good singing of two German Christmas send the same group of p· layers that showing in the coming meets. . carols, \0 Tannenbaum\ and \Stille President Dixon Ryan Fox backed Mr. Daley in praising the value of . lost here last year to an experi- Other Events Fair Nacht\ in which the audience par- sports, saying: \Athletics have enced Union five, 46 to 36, when Although there is no outstanding ticipated. proved a safety valve for youthful the home team unleashed a second- man in the ·breast or back-stroke --------------- spirit in America; many of the al- half scoring spree after trailing at events, the material is fair and with most periodic disorders among the the half, 18 to 21. a month more of seasoning ought to Latin peoples might never have On the fonowing Saturday, Mid- improve greatly. Ed Moulton, in come had their students had this dlebury will play here, and on the the back-stroke, has ·hardly any outlet for physical energy. .Ath- Wednesday after that, Wesleyan, rompetition and seems destined to letics wm·e admitted into American the first of the Little Th!'ee in- take care of the event for the sea- colleges with reluctanee by presi- vaders, will meet the Dutchmen in son. Moulton swam in high school dents and professors who retained the Alumni Gym. The outlook in over a hundred-yard stretch. The a Calvinist suspicion of play as a these three games is only fair, be- college event is once and a half this wanton waste of time. The camel cause of the lack of necessary re- distance. If Moulton can build up thus allowed to thrust his nose be- serves for such a strenuous cam- his stamina for the long·er race he neath the tent bade fair some years paign. will be a decided asset to the squad. ago to oust its traditional occupants. Students were welcomed in some quarters with special financial and even academic privileges to enter- tarn the college and advertise its name in intercollegiate contests. Incredibly eostly stadiums were erected: as theaters for theit' prowess and the costs maintained .by crowds of spectators. Public Confused \Perhaps there was some gain in f1_1stening public interest upon uni- vemities and colleges, -but probably more loss than gain in confusing the public as to the primary pur- pose of institutions of learning.\ Dr. Fox praised the ·Carneg-ie re- port as a \thorough and dispas- sionate survey\ and declared that perhaps President Frank Parker Day's ~uggestion that intercollegi- ate athletic events •be conducted without gate receipts is the best fundamental solution of the problem, for without money ma.ny of the abuses would disappear. He cautioned, ho-wever, that even a moderate amount of transportation of teams and their equipment costs money. Brewstet· Attends Opening Of New Columbia l:.ib1·ai'Y Mr. Jame.s Brewster, librarian, at- tended last Friday the formal open- ing of South Hall, which is the name of Columbia University's new $4,000,000 library. The exercises which were held in the main read- Ing room be.;fore an audience of · over 1,00(} including 300 invited libr&,rians, were very sito.ple. After a welcome 'by Pres. Nicholas Mur- ray Butler, Col. John Buchan, British author, lecturer and member of parliament for the Scottisli universities, gave the chief add~ess. Mr. Brew'ster reports almost una~i:inous approval among visiting Ubrarians concerning this \labora- to:iy-library:• Waste spaae an!l the urge for ostentation which arch- itects and builders often find ir- resi~tl:Qle have here been success- fU1ly cpm:bated. The result is a bu:lldlng which will have a tre- me~do\.i.s effect on lihrai'y architect- ure:, for:_ many years. · . Besides the main reading room there are 16 repartmental reading rooms for special groups, such as modern languages, education, class- Ics, social sciences, etc., and a special \browsing rot>ll'i\ reserved for ColumJbia College undergradu- ates. A special lighting system was designed for tl>.ese rooms. John Argersinger is leading his competitors in the breast stroke. Van Wert bas improved consider- ably in this event in the past week and is beginning to push Argy in their sham races. Fenton Gage, Knox, Kennedy and Emerson have ali been working hard and need a little more perfecting in technique, form, and endurance before they ate ready to compete in varsity competition. We k1zow that s;noking a pipe is d~ljere1zt fronz smoking a cigar or cigarette •.. and in trying to fntd the tobacco best suited for pipes . . . We found out that the best tobacco for use in a pipe grows down in the Blue Grass Section of Kentucky, and it lS called White Burley. 'there is a certain kind of this tobacco that is between the tobacco used for ciga- rettes and the kind that is used for chew- ing tobacco. This is the kind of tobacco that we use, year after year~ for Granger Rough Cut. We got the right pipe tobacco, made it by the right process . . . Wellman's Process .•• we cut it right ... rough cut. The big Granger flakes have to hum cool and they certainly last longer, and never gum the pipe. @ 1934, trGGnTT & MYERS Toat.CCI> Co, / Opponents Not Mentioned LEE FOR GEORGIA Sherman Finger is making a On neither the first or second name for himself at the University Little All-Ame1ican teams do any of Minnesota in the .field of tracl{, vf Union's opponents appear. Two His ·tame has spread wide and far men from '1 uHs' undefeated team and finally they heard all about •have been placed on the teams,· him at Alabama Polytech, with the with the remainder of the selections result that they invited him to be- coming from all sections of the come their football coach! United State;;. The selections for· \I would be dubioqs about my the 1934 Little AN-American Team standing in the South, with my is really a mighty aggregation. name,\ was his refusal. They have usually failed to get in . \Mister came the reply, \just the All-Amelican 1·eams ·because of march. through Georgia, that's all their attendance at smaller celleges we ask-just march through where g-reat teams, large schedules, Ge()rgia.\ constant publicity, and frenzied THE DIRTY DOG ct·owds are practically unheax·d of. Without any doubt the \little fel- A philosophy instructor at Ohio lows\ could put up an excellent University yearly recreates his fight against the All-American ag- \regular\ pun in this manner: After :lregation of \Buzz\ Borries, Bobby passing out the papers for his final Grayson, Lund, Larson, Wallace, examination he sits bacll:: and slyly Reynolds and the 1 est of the names waits for some nervous co-ed to ,; l..l Lash .:tc 1 cs>< the gridirons of touch a puff to her nose. Then, all the larger schools. haughtiness, he rises, bends an accusing finger, and drily remarks: Semerad was under consideration \Young woman, this is not a for All-American since the opening make-up examination.\ game against Wesleyan. It is AND SO IT GOETH llkely that had he not had a wrenched shoulder in his last game It's old and it's trite, we will he might have been placd even admit, but we still think it reads higher in the final selections. Ralph well: The college president was ad- alco received mention on two of dressing the student body at the Union's opponents All-Opponent opening convention of the year. Team. Both Rochester and Willi- Said he: ams placed him in the quarterback \I'm delighted to observe that the position on their All-Opponent number of shining faces in front of Team. This in itself lends weight me this fall is even greater than to the formidable performances last year.\ which Ralph gave on the football Continuing with a text from the field in his last year of college Bible, he quoted: competition. \Oh how they increase, that Tile Teams troubleth me!\ The Little All-American first and PARTIALLY second teams are listed below: Pres. R. M. Hughes, of Iowa First Team-Ends-Bill Grinnell, State College (Ames), will soon in- Tufts; Tom Goodwin, W. Virginia. vestigfrte aomplaints that have Tackles-Bla.zine, Hl. Wesleyan; been lodged with Iowa's governor Garland, Catawba. Guards-Kjeld- which state that a professor in that sen, C. of Pacific; Garnis, Will- Institution has been partial in his amette. Center-Prochaska, Tulsa. teaching. ina common-sense package-JOe the pipe tonacco tl1afs MILD the pipe tooacco that's COOL -fills seem to like it

Four THE CONCORDIENSJS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1~34 S k Phi Rhoades Supports Eta l{a,ppa McCord 'Defends Pclicy PmfeSS<ll,' Stewart Assli~es ·r~~f~~~?;~~i 9 ~~a~~<I~~! 1 ;r:;~~;es~fs~ March po eat . Nu in Daily Assembly Talk And Explains New Idol Bal·nes'. Departmental Duties .tinguished writing is found .in B t K Aff • · ·\Greek Occidence.\ e a ' appa air Dr. Barnes is su.rvivedby llis: wUe, The charges of The Conc<;Jrdiensis · .Spealcing in defense of the Idol. (Continued from Page 1) Mrs. Louise Beman Pike. Ba1:n.es, against the ex.istence of Eta Kappa yesterday morning in daily assem- Ft;ance an(!' Spain as well as sel•·l'- whom he married 1n 189.0. In 1918 Hono11ary Society Hears Pro-. Nu, national honm:ary electrical• bly, William s. McCord, editor. of .ing as vislt~:ng observer of s<rhools the house in Which he and:J>rofessor · engineering society were attacked the college• quarterly, stated t11at: in Prussla and Saxony. Hoffml).n lived Qn the campus test Against Teaching Pa- by Chester lY.I. Rhoades, president constructive criticisms of th.-e Idol . Dr. Barnes's first teaching expe1i- burned to the ground, Dr. Barnes , triotism in :School System of the local chapter of Eta Kappa are aked for and wanted. '\We are .ehce was ,at Troy Academy, ;vhere escaped wit!). his wife and a pet , Nu, ih Daily Assembly, Wednesday, tiying to maintain a litel'R.l'Y stand- .he later became principal in 1896. cat, while the nurse and baby. November 28. Rhoades refuted the. ard,\ said McCord. In 1903 he went to Stockbridge, nephew of Dr. Hof!rna:n we1•e , \Experience rather than educa- accusation that the money spent by· \Th Id 1 . t . tJ t Mass., as \superintendent of schools, fatally injured. In 1921 Dr. Barnes • tion is resiJonsible for .patriotism'· students to join this society is ill-' d · t e b~- - 1 ~· noy: s ~~O yd. a s u-· but left the following year to 'be-: had a severe breakdown, ·recovered · decla.re d Pl'Dfessor Jolm L. March spent, for the New York chapter en pu Jca wn; c ()!' an- come instructor in modern Ian- and resumed. his active teaching has secured positions for 3D out of nounced, \the entire editing- of the .arnages het·e. He was made·adjunct .and admi'ni\stra·tive worlt a year THE ACtJE-- BARBER SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS A PLEASURE 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS in a paper <Jn \:Patriotism and ~~u- 26 applicants. . magazine lies in the hands ()f the, \'- · . . cation\ vvhich constituted the maJor students and ·only as a cenosoring · · . ll:a~t~e~r~. =====~=~~=~=~:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~· portion of tne prograD;l with which In one editorial E)tatement he board does the faculty does tbe :fac- · t~ the Union Chapte1· of l'hi Beta showed that a misrepresentation• ulty enter into the Idol:s pu~lica-,. Kappa celebrated the 158th anni- was printed concerning the investi-' ti<'m. The r.eviewing of new books v<:rsaq of the founding of the na- gation of t.he honorary fraternities.· has also been made possible by the tiona! honorary society Wednesday fhe comment -of The Concordiensis interest of President Dix.on :R.yan evening at 'he home of Dr. George tead as follows: \ 'During the gen- Fox who obtained advance copies : Dwight Kellogg. A repurt _of t~e eral cleanup of the so-called honor- of new books from various ,p-ublish- · deleg,·ate:s to tne recent tr1enma• ary fraternities last year Eta. ing hOI'\\-\·\ council and of the joint Phi Beta Kappa Nu was unaccountably left· Speaking in opposition €o· the • Kappa-Sigma XI committee on out.'_\ \' erron~ous statement, criticisms which the Ldol received overtappiag eligibility preceded the comm~ as 1t does ~his ;vear suggests in the early part of the <Jolleg-e paper. ~hat 'lhe Co~c~r_diensJs ~as made. year, McCord said that tlte .maga- The Acme H·ouse linen Supply Co., Inc. Rents Linen for All Occasions You Pay for Laundry Work Only 1000 BARRETT S'X. Phone 4-9310 HENR'CS BARBER SHOP BARBER:ING and MANICURING I 0 N. Y. C. Arcade Milk Cream Butter :E.ggs ln his .paper Dr. March expressed 1t.s . ow,n de~m1tlon C?f Honorar;v zine could not appeal to ev-.e 1 :yone:' his belie! tuat efforts to inculcate soc1ety and, 1s. determine~ to erad1- nor does it intend to. But Its inter- · patriotisin through the school ca~e all so;netJes not commg _under est could be made more universal system are not only undesira,ble, in thus deflutlol7· ~he author1ty of. and varied if more studEnts COJ;l- so .far ~s they atSsume a narrow, The ConcordJensJs to .JUdge the ;~r 1 ~·b;u~t~e~d;. ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.;;;;;;;;~·~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;~ nationalistic trend, .but are quite relative merits of this honorary futile. As aa illustration, he pointed society, or ill. fact and such organ- to the fallure of the Prussian public izations, is questionable when the school system's propaganda to pre- investigating committee, appointed vent the rise of .socialism following by Dr. Edward Ellery, did not see the war. fit to make any recommendations. C.loverland Creamery Ph<>ne 2-4265 There are very definite and dis- cernible stages in man's life, Dr. March eJ.plained, at which interests in various matters are aroused. Until tiUCh mteretits are aroused no tt ue education in these subjects or matters .is .possible. Slowly the in- dlviduaJ becomes conscious of greater expanses of time until, on enteriag his teens, he has a distinct sense of time. ln his twenties the individual ac- quires his first real interest, that in love and marnage, Dr. March said. .All previous apparent in- terests are merely of a pseudo nature. This attention is subse- quently diverted to a profession, al- though at present the professional interest rnay arise earlie1·. Not until m1ddle age, however, does an extensive and vital interest in gov- ernment become evident. Not until then, therefore, is it possible to in- culcate patriotism. The reading of the paper was followed by considerable discussion. After the formal p10g1·am refresh- ments were served. INSTALLMENT TL'l:TION The :final payment of TUITION is due 'Saturday, DECEMBER 15th. Due to the fact that this is just a half-day, an extension will be granted on all .payments to MON- DAY, DECEMBER 17th. It is re- quested that all payments be made promptly and any payment made after DECEMBER 17th will be subject to the usual fine for late payment. The Comptroller\s Office will be open from 8:30--12:00 on Satmday and 8:30-11:30; 1:00-4:30, Monday. II The Grab Bag ... Says Bill McCord, spealting in Chapel about the Idol: \We do not attempt to publish a Liberty, a Col- liers, a Saturday Evening Post, or even an Atlantic Monthly. We ju;;t struggle along.\ Yes, yes- . .. .. • . . W il;w.m,; College, say:.; thdt head man, does not accept F E R A or any other federal money, because they tlu nut intend that their pr-o-- fes::;ors shall feel obliged or be obliged to support a governmental policy with which they do not agree ju~t fo1 the sake of a few dollars. And that sets u~ thinking · * * .. ... Bulletin Board Dept. \Refined woman from one of the fraternity hou;;es would lilte to ride with a boy !;c.iug in the vicinity of ... during the Xmas holidays.\ Very interest- ir.g, this. Tell us more about yourself- * \' • . . Treachery rears its head this weelt. E:ditor Hathaway finds that he is sig-ned ,up for a book which be claiw..s he did not si'gn up for. This could lead to no end of f.tlrt, what with filling up the order sheets w1t h phoney name>s and such tricks. and the <mly solution seems to be tr. write everyone a letter. Come clean, cClem. Didn't you find a second-hand copy last weelt? * * • ... 'This week l'll end it ail with the fata( words that must be so familiar to an of you- Cordially yours Gee bee. CHARLES' Fo~~~~Y The ()fticial Union College Barber tor tlle past 2~ years. Ask any upper clasSilleil. they know. 11 operators. Schenectady's greatest barber, COR. STATE .A..:ND BROADWAY \As r see it,\ concluded Rhoades, \the fate of Eta Kappa Nu rest;; with the student body. Eta. Kappa Nu must, of coUJ8c, do it;; .paJ.t. The only honorary fraternity in its field, as old in its field as other societies in theirs, Eta Kappa Nu has, be- cause it is an assurance of ability, established a.mong engineering con- cerns a very good reputation.\ JEWELRY-WATCHES Schenectady VVatch Hospital EXPERT WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING All Work Done on Premises a.t HECKMAN'S JEWELRY STORE W8 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. LANS I,MC 'S D.AIRY 215 North len Broeck Street SCHENECTADAY' - Phone 2-7758 - SCOTIA Ice Cream Cottage Cheese SCHENECTA'Dl\'S POPULAR ltENDEZVOUS GOLD Is RESTAURANT· 'J:APROOM ·DELICATESSEN SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY. INC. 147 JA. Y STREET Schel'lec:tady, New York if PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. FERRY STREET Schelle~i·ady. ·N. Y. Gazette Pres,s f(} A MANY men of the South have been \in tobacco\ for years-growing tobacco a.nd curing it-buying it and selling it-until they know tobacco from A to Izzard. Harvesting to• baccoandpacking it in the bam for curing-and (be· low) cr, scene at a Souther.n tobacco Now folks who ba\e been in tobacco all their lives, folks who ~row it, know there is no substitute for mild ripe tobacco. And down in the S()ttth where they gr~w tobacco and where they ought JQ knQW sQmething about it--In most places Chesterfield is the largest-sellit~g' cigarette. the cigarette that's MILDER the cigarette that iA.STES BETTER Vol. j Str~ Ch= Bo Amei Cl: A~ Semc UJ Ac Coun< meeti Geor~ electe move• consti vari01 well . ativef ThE mina· of ado pi the e dent mitte tuicm ling the c that com]: tent. Alt feelit gard its i1 one< men of p1 ago the 1 on t It Stroc the sent close crati poin has ever nota the: pron of ·sc nom mar' resp Si1 late Ral] sion unti for Ole Fo T in!'; was Re\ of t cop: Cha B was Ol\ tho1 and the: The and WOl sea 'I Bib out ing Th: sin1 eve mu enc err all; gr~ me tio by lis• by ha lUl dif All an m1

·~ I i I ,--~~ '-'6 Stroebel • Proposes I Honorary i ·I F.eHow, Amendment • To Student Speaks • ' Ln Cha-pel • Constitution • t tS I • , ___ J t PRICE FIVE CENTS Vol. LVIII., NC>. 23 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1934 Rear Admh·al Taylor To Give Address On China Stroebel Moves For Change i11 Student B d C t •t t• Rear Admiral Montgomery Meggs 0 . Y . ()RS l U. lOfi Taylor of the United States NaVY,· retiredj will address the students Thursday, December 13 at the daily assembly exercise ·on the sub-. ject ·Of China, it was announced to- day hy President Dixon Ryan. Fox. The address is part of the series of. outside experts whom the college Amendment Permits Each Class to N()minate as Well As :Elect Council Members P1·oposal Tabled . has .selected to address the students on affairs in the world in order that an increasing awareness of the wo.rld's social and economic ·rela- Semerad Tables Discussion U.ons may be developed among the :undergraduates. Until NeKt Meeting ~--o--- UnionS Revived By A direct attaek on the Student Council was made· in student body: meeting yeste1·day morning when George Stroebel, '35, recently' eleeted secreta.Ty of the senior class, moved for an. amendment to the constitution that would permit the various classes lo nominate, as NRASays Cummins Says Trade Union Has Come Out of Doldrums; Strikes, M~mbership Increase well as elect, their own represent- \The monthB that have elapsed atives for the Student Council. since the adoption of the National. · Recovery Act have been featured The present sy-stem of closed no-: by an unprecedented growth in the minations by the outgoing boards ag-gregate membership of labor or- of the Staudent Council was ganizations,'' declared Dr. Earl E. adopted in Febxuary, 1932, when Cunu:nins in his speech in daily chapel, Saturday. \ln August, 1932, the entire conslitu<tion of the stu- the membership of the American dent body was revised. The com- Federation of La,bor was a little mittee which drew up the consti- over two million. Last month the tuion did so with a view of expel- executive council of the Federation reported to the convention a mem- ling all possibilities of deals from. bership of 5,600,000, a peak for all the campus. It is commonly agreed time. The past two years have that the Student Council has ac- also witnessed a sharp increase in t11e number and severity of indus- complished its purpose to this ex- trirJ disputes. The trade union has, tent. without question, come out of the doldrums.\ Although there has been bitter \Of the new factors introduced feeling among the neutrals in re- by the Recovery Act the most im- gard to the Student Council since portant in its bearing on labor or- its inception, the latter has made ganization is the declaration in one concession to the non-fraternity Section 7 (a) of the right of the men already by adopting a system workers to bargain collectively of preferential balloting two years tl:uough representatives of their ago which has made it easier for own choosing, without employer in- the neutrals to gain representation tt>rference, and the implied obliA·a- on the Student Council. t1on of the employer to deal with It was argued yesterday by such representatives. Stroebel and others who are behind What does Section 7 ·( al of the the move to ex:termi:nate the pre- N. R. A. mean? Don't you under- sent system of nominations that stand the English language? It closed nominations are undemo- means what it says. To those who cratic. On the other hand, it was expected the New Deal to bring pointed out rtha.t only poor success pe.:tce and good-will to industry the has been obtained this year when- events of the past year and a half ever open nominations were hel.d, must have come as a severe dis- notably nominations for officers m >appointment. But they do not come the senior class and for the junior as a surprise to anyone who is faro- prom committee. Only a handful! iliar with the course of labor move- of ·seniors were present when those ments throughout the world. Such nominations were made and a few persons know that labor disputes more members of the class of 1936 are merely evidences of a funda- responded to the call. men tal economic stt·uggle that has been present since the dawn of Since the motion was brought up . history. Change society fund- late in the meeting, President amen tally if you will; but the ele- Ralph Semerad limited the discru;;- mental stmggle for an improved sian to three Jninutes and tabled lt economic status, for greater eco- until the ne:xt meeting, scheduled n.oxnic power, will go on, its special for Monday, January- 1 4 , 1985 · character determined by the type ---o of social and economic society in Oldham Emphasizes Need For Understanding Bible which It is being waged. There vvill be a different alignment, dif- ferent methods, perhaps, different weapons, different war dries, but the basic economic struggle was in the beginning, is now, and so far as anybody can perceive, ever shall be. CALENDAR 'I'onight 7:80-Philomathean Society Meeting, Old Chapel. 7:30-Uas~rcal Club .Meetings, Dr. Kellog's. 8:00-American Society of Civil Engineers (Student Chapter) Meeting, Room 106, General Engineering Building. 8:00-GcHnan Club 1\Ieeting, Silliman Hall. Tomm·row Daily .A!Ssembly-String Quart- ette. Neutrals to Hold Second Annual Dance S:aturday Debaters Score Victory Over Girls C ll t E 1 ~ The Pyramid Club, th.e only or- O .. ege a mira 'ganizatl~H uf non-fraternity men on the car.upus, IV'.ill sponsor the Cummings, Snyder, Sopho- mOI'es, Successful by 2 to 1 Vote in Week-end Match second. N~u,Jal Dance -wh.ich will be held at the Botel Van Curler chis SalUl·day. The college nine p1ece orchestra, tb.e Gar11et Gob- !ln;;, will lurn.ish the IDUsic. Be- cause of the preference of the stu- dents the uanee will be semi-formal. AI D b t S Dr. and .\1r~. Ira .B. liansen and so . e ate a yracuse Dr. anu l\H'S. Everett w. Thatcher . will be the chaperons. 3:30--5:30 ··-Glee Club Rehearsal, Hanna Hall. 4:30-Publication Board Meet- ing, Administration Build- ing. · In Non-decision Discussion On ~atu1·day Afternoon Th1;; ~_,nee was arranged in the hope of st.lrnulating neutrals to take d. n1o1 e active part in ~allege 'l'ickets may 'be obtained Erom Mr. .i\lilton I£nz:.er' s office i:n Silliman Hall or from the follo'Wing men: 8:00-Varsity Basketball, Union vs . .Clarkson, Gym. Thursday Daily Assembly-Rear Admiral :Muntgornery Meggs Taylor. 4:00---6:CO-C o II e g e Orche.stra Rehears.:tl, Hanna Hall. 8. 00-Sigil.a Xi Lecture, Biology Lab. Friday Daily Assembly-Or. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. Fire Drives Betas Out of Warm Beds Smoke-choked Refugees Find Shelter in Chi Psi Lodge; Mower in Hero Role Approximately two dozen slum- bering Betas were rudely awakened from their slumber shortly after· six u'ciock yesterday morning by a shout from Stan Mower '35. \The house is on fire!'' One by one they wakened only to find their dorm- itory was filled with smoke. Chok- ing their way out of the dorm and down the stairs each one grahbed as much clothing as he possibly could and rushed out into the bitter cold of the morning. According to Bill Brockwehl '35, retired co-captain of cross country. \The smoke was so thick that I had to stick my head out of the window every couple of seconds to get some fresh air before donning another piece of clothing.\ Five of Schenectady's finest fire engines re- sponded to the call. The commo- tion in the dormitory of the Chi Psi Lodge was as great as that in the Beta Theta Pi House. The neighbors of the Betas donned their clothing as quickly as possible, and wshed out only to meet the smoke- choked Betas at their door, cold and speechless. Many Onlookers Alpha Delts, Psi U's, D U's, Sigs and townspeople as well as the Betas and Chi Psi's, clustered about the smoking ruins. When some of Lhe smoke had cleared away the onlookers breathed a sigh of relief to see that the house was really not burned down, nor at all damaged except for a flood of water in the cellar and a tremend- ously weakened floor in the liv- ing room, caused by the fire which was lodged in the partition between (Continued on Page 4) Debate Held at Elmira John Daly, H. Deutl, L. Milone, W. £'lynn, rLd, H. Kluge, B. Plum- mer, .:.;!. 1-\IIZ:nar :F. A.gostini, G. Allen, D. A.nn.ett, ·D. Bu,chanan, E. ~~H>La.:!l, L. Hennesse:y, and J. Morgan. -- -·-0·--- The Union debating team defeat- ed the Elmiw Girh; College at Eln1ir·a on .i!'riday, December 7. Clark Cummings, '37 and Richard Snyder, '37 successfully upheld tht affirmative of the proposition, Re- solved: \That the United State; ..tdupt a system of sccialized med1 dne under iederal Ol' :;tate contlol.' Mo· s·t Cons~I·ellti•ous The debate was held in Cowles Hall. '-' ..tt 8 p. m. befote an enthusiastic 01.. • t M • audience of students. Many Union . II:J]eC ors tOromc Alumni also attended the encounter and were duly pleased with the vic- tory of the Union delegation. Mem- bers of the negative team of Elmira were, Clare Richat·dson, first speaker, and Helen Ayres, second speaker. Both girls are seniors. The Onion debaters were accom- The Objectors W el'E Sincere Ellt IgaoraJt(!e Prompted 'Jltei~· Actions panied by Frederick A. Wyatt, Di- \It doesn't seem long si11ce I was rector of Debate. attending Uni<m College and sitting Go to Syracuse in chapel, listening while some Saturday morning following- the kindly old. gentleman, imported Elmira debate, the team journey to from out~ide, was :pumping us full Syracuse where they engaged Syra- of advice and adll!onitioD,\ said Dr. cuse University in a non-decision Walter Guest :Kellogg, Honorary contest on the same topic. The de- Fellow in Dai.ly Assembly this bate took place in Slocum Hall at morning. To<lay, the situation is 3 p. m. Morris Kantor, Henry Le- reversed, for here am I, passing vine, and Howard Behm, all sopho- mores, took the negative side for myself off as the elderly sage who Syracuse. The Union team was to is toQ speak. to you_ be the guest of Milton Dickens, I examined nea.rly a thousand Coach of Debate at the university, ·conscientious objectors, and, as Saturday night, but a change in nearly- as I could detertnine, the plans brought the group home late great m.ajority were s..incere, but Saturday night. their sincerity came from an inbred Have Cold Trip and persisting ignorance. Seventy- The trip to Etmira started 8 a.m. five.per cent were with them in the Friday morning. The delegation Civil War no less fairly than in the rode in Wyatt's Ford, affectionately World War. called \Josephine.'' \Josie\ faith- I cannot think that tb.e objector's fully carried the team through problem is one that co'l.lld. arise in snow storms and blizzards. The the breasts of any- you.ng men L'e- temperature dropped considerably ceiving the education tllat yo'u are as the trip progressed, and the boys getting here at Union, for all of you, had to stop every three-quarters of I think, whether or not you have an hour to warm up. In the course read Plato, mu&t he in accord with of the journey, stops were made at that dialogue of his ·in which The the Cobleskill, Oneonta, and Bing- Laws. a.re supposed to speak and hampton High Schools where Di- to say: \F'or after ha\ring brought rector Wyatt talked with the prin- you into the 1vorld, and nurtured cipals concerning prospective Union and educated you, anci given you students. Time was taken out at and every other citizen a share in Binghampton for lunch. The Di- every good tb.>~t we had. to give, we rector and the debaters were so further proclaim and give the right cold that it was some time before to every- A.thenian, that, i:f he does they could even efficiently grasp not lilte us when he bas come of the silverware. When Elmira was age and has seen the -ways of the reached at 4:30 p. m., the group city, a11.d made ()Ur aoequaintance, •vas tired and COLD. However, he may g<l ·where he pleases and after the fine dinner given by their take his goods -with him; and none hosts, the delegation felt much bet- of us laws will forbid bim or inter- ter. fere with him. Any of y-ou who does ----a--- Debaters Suffer Defeat At ,Hands of Middlebmy •ream Kellogg Declares College ·Ought to Cultivate Reading Honorary Fellow Recommends Reading as Recreation, Not As Prescribed Talk Meets English Majors Current Literature Discussed At Informal Gathering \The ideal of the college should not be so much to make a student well-read as to cultivate in him a taste for reading,\ said Dr. Walter Guest Kellogg, eminent author, edu- cator, and lawyer; speaking before a large group of students in Bailey Hall yesterday morning. Dr. Kellogg, has been spending several days on the campus as an honorary fellow in letters, one of twelve such positions recently created, by the administration to augment classroom study by bring- ing students into informal contact with men of wide experience in non-academic fields. Experiences With Books Making no claim to be an author- ity either in literature or in educa- tion, Dr. Kellogg talked yesterday morning of his own experiences in the world of books and of the val- ues and limitations of studying literature in college. \I cannot re- call a time when books weren't meat and drink to me,\ said Dr. Kellogg, \but my tastes as a child were pretty poor. I wish I could tell you that my tastes were much improved by what I learned at col- lege.\ But the formalized courses in literature which were then re- quired of a college student had little influence and were soon for- gotten. \Personal contacts with such exceptional teachers as Bran- der Mathews and Harry Thurston Peck rather than their classroom lectut·es stimulated in. me whatever love for English I now have.\ \My English courses prescribed for me some of the most dry-as- dust books that ever were written,\ continued Dr. Kellogg. When I think of the kind of boy I must have been at eighteen, I cannot wonder that those courses meant so little to me.\ The forced reading of the classroom almost cancelled the jo~· of reading at random. \Edu- cation should develop in the stu- dent a taste for reading books, which will be pleasurable, not necessarily masterpieces that thrill- ed dead bosoms ages ago, for liter- ature will best serve its purpose if it proves recreational.\ Boredom Unnecessary \The range of English literature is so wide, its diversity of approach to the problems of life is so great, that no boy should ever be permit ted to be bored by it. If you can not scale the peaks, remain in the valleys, or mount the slopes half way.'' The need for a fuller understand- in!; and appreciation of the B.i·ble was emphasized oy the ~1ght Reverend G. Aston Oldham, Btsh?P of the Albany Diocese of the EpiS- copal Church in his sermon at the Chapel exersises Sunday. Charles luke's, '38, Sister Calls U1tion Boys Infidels In Her Memoir no't lilte us, and the ctty, and who wants to go to a colon:y, or to any other city, may go where he likes, and take his g-oods with him. But he who has experience of the man- ner in whicb we ordel\ justice and ·Jdminlster the State, .and still re- main.s, has entered into an implied contr ad that he will do as we com- mand hiltl.\ · Students majoring in English had the opportunity to meet Dr. Kellogg last mght at the home of President Fox. About twenty students and several professors were present to participate in an informal discus sian of current literature, and to exchange ideas with tbe honorary fellow in letters. Rev. Oldham .:~aid that t~ere was no need to reconcile the B1ble or· religion with science, for al- though they have been thrashed out By VEDDER M. GILBERT and argued for hundreds of y~ars, \ ... There has been, as I am in- she, a year later, taught in the A T.:'nion deb3.ting team consist· ing of Carl Olson '36 and Guy Graves '37 lost to Phillipps Palmer and Jack .Steele of Middlebury College, Vermont. The winning team upheld the negative of the propr.Rition, Resolved: That the United States Adopt A Policy of Economic Self-sufficiency.\ The decision of the judges was unani- mous. The debate was broadcast by station WGY from 11 p. m. to Six SopllsE$tablishPhiSigmaKappa At Massach usettsAgriculture School By ELLWOOD B. WENGENROTH there is nothing to be reconCiled. formed, a <religious) revival in African Sabbath School at Sche- 1'he Bible belongs to its own sphere Union, and some hopeful conver- nectady. and science to another and both are sions, even out of the infidel ranks.\ Charles Jukes, Mrs. Powell's 'be- working together harmoniously in The antagonist of The ~lemoir of loved brother,' was born of the Rev. searching for ultimate truth. Mrs. Ann B. Powell, who dared Charles Jukes in Jorone, Somerset, The practical values which the catalogue Union's undergraduates. England. If the records are ac- Bible offers to its readers were among the infidels. was an extra- curate the boy was an eminently <>utlined by Rev: Oldham as affect- ordinary woman. So unusual was pious, modest, frugal, perservering, ing literature, government and life. :Mrs. Powell nee Ann Jukes that her and very promising young man Through the many generations friends decided in 1838 to publish esteemed by all who knew him. since the Bible was written, almost her memoirs. With all his recommendations Ann every work of art, literature arid. The above quotation is to be feared for Charles' soul. music has felt the inspiring infla- found in Mrs. Powell's memoir. When Ann, who was teaching at ence of the Bi.ble. Sources of gov- 'The passage is taken from a letter the La Vallie Seminary, Halifax ernmental philosophy were origin~ from Ann to her .brother, Charles county, North Ca_rolina, learned ally those <>f the Bible, and the .Jukes '38, then living in Utica. that Charles intended to pursue 'a great masterpieces of ,the govern- The letter was sent from Miss U. course of education preparatory to ment of peoJlle such as the Declara- Sheldon's Female Seminary, Sche-. entering the ntinistry she must have tion of Independence were inspired nectada, February 15, 1834. . ·writhed with anguish, for her be- by the teaGhing-s of the Bible. Life Throughout Ann's ·brief life of loved planned to receive his training ttself has .been profoundly changed twenty-one years, her being had at Union College, the home of the by the Bible acecording to Rev. Old- been directed towards a spiritual infidels. ham. existence. As a child she appeared On February 10, 1835 Ann wrote\ The Bible is a masterpiece of to be much interested in religious dear brother, as you intend unity that . cO'ntains multitudes of. conversation. At the age of seven• 'entering Union College, beware of different types of thought and story. teen the pious creature begged her temptations: press on rapidly in Although l'lh'itt~n by so many people· br·other, Charles, to commence 'the your research into the yet (to you) and containing sueh complexity of delig-htful and useful employment' unexplored mines of 11Seful lmowl- matter, the BL1Jle is a unified work. of teaching Sunday..,gchool while. (Continued on Page 4) 12 p. m. last night, and marked the On March 15, :1873, almost sixty second in a series of eight radio years ago, the nucleus of what was contests. to be Phi Sigma Kappa was formed The judges of last night's debate by a little group of silc: sophomores wet e: Mr. Islay McCormac It, Head- attendin~ the Massachusetts Agri- master of Albany Academy; Mr. culturaJ school nt Aml'1ei·st. George W. Spaine, principal of Their aim and ]>Ur·pose was Mont Pleasant High School; and simple. They 'W()Uid form a society Mr. Robert Shillinglaw, principal of their own a.nd through this of Castleton High School. These medium seize upon some of the in- men listened to the debate lndivid- tangible delights of college not to ually in their own homes, and then be easily- obtained boy a prosaic telephoned thier decision to the study of books ,nor· 'bY\ listening to broadcasting studio, where the re- the insti·uction in\paried officially suits were given out over the air by the college .. at 12:15 a. m. At the time -when Phi Sigma The Middlebury team was enter- Kappa. was formed, the Greel{ tained by the college yesterday aft- Letter fratern itles were hot very ernoon and evening until the time numerous n oi• very strot'lg. It was for the contest arrived. This de- a day of more or les:s -intolerance, bate will end forensic activities wherein one fmJ11d it Clifficult to see until :after the Christmas recess. much good in .any r~vv.l organiza- Tuesday night at 7:80 p. m. in the tion. The fraternities were real Old Chapel, the Philomathean rivals in those days, and did not Society will hold another practice hesitate to express unfavorable de·bate in preparation for the next opinions of theh· comiJEititors. radio encountet· with Williams Col-· H:owever, these jealousies had lege on January 11th. only a minor part with this group. Fez· five years it had no exoteric name and was generally known as The Three T's. For fifteen years the organization was .purely local and its problems did not go beyond the limits of the campus where it first saw the light of day. The advantages of nationalization, how ever, were too pointed to be ignored indefinately, and due to the activity of alumni members who went to the Albany Medical College for graduate study, a second chapter was established there. For a short time the parent chapter was de- signated as Pi, and the Albany one as Alden March after the founder of the college. It was not until 1922 that the latter chapter was moved to Union College at Schenec tady. • The steady growth. of Phi Sigma Rappa continued until the organiz ation at pre.sent embraces 48 active chapters. Of .late years El.\Cpansion has come to a halt, and there Is (Continued on Page 4). I. t ' '•:

..• THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1934 ···;r~====~==~=-=-==~-=~====;m~~=-~===-~~~~t~a'==~--~~·g•;··~r .. ~~~~~,~·~-~·~,,~,t=,~~-~-~=-~~·~·~·~~~-~·~~·~l~\==;;=-======~::;·~:;:=-====--==~~---====-==~~~===7--~~~~~----~~~~~==~~ opportunity to he represented on the Student'li Two '::i'. ~ '·· L(! ~~ . :~:I~ :i::: ~·=:ii 11;,,111 I @nnrn \A. Oausa Po'1'81l Parolo Assai\ FouNDED 1877 ~~5oda.tccl M&::;H;~:ate ~ress -~4-®lk~i~~~-1\i.-)~:otins:- MADISOtl 'n1SCO:i!:.lti Sole and Exclusive National Advertising Represen- tative National Advertising Service, Inc., 11 West 42nd St., N. Y. c., 400 No. Michigan Ave., ·Chicago, Illinois. The official newspaper of the students of l!nion College. Published Tuesdays and Fr1rlays throughout the college year, eKcept during Christmas and spring recesses. Publica;tion Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editor-ial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Boa1·d Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-In-Chief Chi Psi Lodge-4-6627 Joseph A. Woolman .......... Managing Editor Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Wiiliam H. Fitzgerald ....... Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 Milton A. Berger ................. Sports Editor Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Thornton w. Whipple., ... Circulation Manager Chi Psi Lodge-4-6627 Junior Board Vedder M. Gilbert .•. , ..... , .... Feature Editor Psi Upsilon House-4-8710 ASSOCIATE EDITORS John D. Anderson Robert C. North Albert IL Stevenson VanVechten Trumbull Sophomore Board Assistant Editors M. Bedell S. R. Cohen R. Doolittle F. Feldman W. Ferguson F. Gage C. Garrison G. Haskell W. Horstmann R. Passenger R. Snyder N. Stewart Council, a system of preferential voting was I Fa r ra g 0 adopted with the results that the non-frater- MUSIC By LOUIS &. GARDINER ~==========================~ nity men have been l'epresented on the Coun-' We asked a friend of ours, one There Was once a brainy old Dr. Tidmarsh opened his i•ecital 'l · h whom you all know, to contribute a spinster Sunday with Cesar Franck's Cl ever SlllCe t ·en. column for this strip. Several days' 'Who taught at a school cal'led West- \Corale in A Minor.\ This beauti- ago we got his letter which started: minster. , ful piece is the last of three char- Opposition to the Student Council from. •·Arrange it to suit thy .falicy, and She went to New York : ales written by Franck shortly be- KIDEP ME OUT OF IT~\ I repeat, The clever old sport! · f·ore his death. Of a:ll his music, the ranks of the student body is not unprece- you all know him. He wrote. But she fell afoul of an educational ·these three pieces are the most JFmorago last year, was the only: luncheon at the Roosevelt and moderh in theme and harmonic dented. How well organized this opposition English Honors man i·n the class pa:osed out from inhaling variation. They are not, however, of '34, and his initials are, J. P. R.' cigar smoke. lacking in those qualities of con- is, remains unknown. Nevertheless, it has to IIi fact, as the Schenectady Gazette, * * '·' struction and execution character- once testified, he won a preliminary Droopings from the worldly: The istic of the cJ.assics. The most be proved that everything connected with heat in a 100 yard dash somewhere, .pain of a discord in music is like notable factor of the ·\chmale in · (novice class). The -letter ended:, trying to atld up a sum in your A Minor\ is. the very light and gay the Student Council is not on the level before \Print it all! Don't be a sissy all head, and finding the numbers too harmony built on an hymn-like your life.\ high. . theme. This Iack of solemnity, al~ it would be worthwhile to make a change. * $ • * * * though uncommon in church music, A COMPLAINT Home, home ain't the same does not destroy the religious THE MOUNTEBANKS ARE ON THE !ROAD! The acclaim with which the Mountebanks have been received both on the campus and on the road is indicative of the high quality of their \Vork. Year in and year out since l\Ir. Edward L. Carroll has been director a high standard of performance has been ex- hibited by the undergraduate actors. The substitution of ladies for the female roles rather than undergraduates was a capital move and can be looked upon as one of the biggest contributing factors toward the increased success of the organization this year. When the val'ious extra-curricular activities display their prowess on other fields with marked success and 1·eflect credit on the college, then their continued existence (vVords and music by Mr. Bronner Since my dear and her antelope feeling of the chorale. of Bedford road) play: Dudley Buck's beautiful hymn, To me ifs always a mystery Why the guys who Iorm the sistory Don't throw out all eKcept tory! I could never understan·d con- his- Why quacks must ever plague our land, And sneak into our schools: And now they dare ·to take their stand, And tell us all with a wave of the hand That English is a subject: \Vhat can my colleague Stanley say (In his nest at peep of day) E:xcept the usual verbal hay De~igned to le'3.d the lads astray. Venomous philosophy! Now economics serves him sum- mons; Does he think the Art of Cummins Can set the factory wheel a-hum- min? (a-hummin, as in \All the darlties are a-hummin.\) Such bilge upon the bill of fare! Neophytes each day are snared 1:3y mumblings unholy Confusion sieze the antelope! \Holy Night,\ was next on the program. This piece is <me of the most dignified and religiously ex- prssive hymns ever written. More- over, it is extremely well adapted to the organ, for it abounds with rich, harmonious chords. Follow- We are treading on sacred soil. Enough fli~pery, Theophrastus! -N. ---0·--- Middlesex Notes . ing came two short Christmas ' songs, \Christmas Musette,\ and Thanksgiving week-end, hectic as \Noel Bourguinon.\ These mel- usual, left quite a few fleeting im- odies are charmingly simple, and presions, and nothing else. Since have most of the characteristics the ensuing week brought no in- ·Of the folksong. They are neces- spiration, you'll have to put up with sarily simple, as they were written them. Here are some- for the small foot-pumped organ, Names In New York and vicinity; an instrument with but a single Bing and Bing, rental agents; manual, and that only three and George Goon, Laundry; Glasser sometimes four octaves long· . Glass Company; Cuban Tobacco Mrs. Fred Mahle then rendered Company, V. Tubalishevski, prop. four songs, \An Old Sacred Lull- And why do New Yorket·s always aby,\ Brahm's \Sappische Ode,\ bring their dogs out for an airing \Schlupwinkel and \Sleep Song,\ around the Chrysler Building? by Cyril Scott. Mrs. Mohle has a • * * fine voice, but her enunciation was Passing a theatre on upper Lex- a bit faulty and indistinct at times. ington avenue, we noticed on the After these songs, Dr. Tidmarsh marquee of the theatre the follow- closed with three pieces by modern ing signs, which must have been composers: \Westminster Chimes,\ composed by a gentleman of much by Vierne, \Clair de Lune,\ by wit. Karg-Elert, and \!Vidor's \Toccata MAE WEST IN BELLE OF THE from his fifth Symphony. These gos three composers are about the best VICTORY JORY IS PUTISUED of the. period, and their work ranks with the more ancient classics. TWO BIG FEATURES 1-------------------\l is warranted. By tnumblings unholy! But now we inherit Doctor Fox: MAE WEST IN BELLE OF THE 90S The local music association evid- ently does not want to cause the Boston Symphony Orchestra any embarrassment, for the letters re- cently forwarded to their patrons stated that \The audience is cau- tioned not to applaud between the movements of the Beethoven Issue Editor ••.•..•••..• John D. Anderson Assistant Issue Edito1·s It is quite a while before the budgets for the student tax committee \Vill be made out for consideration, Lut it would be worthwhile if this body would watch the functions of these activities all during the year so that each organization may receive an appropria- tion as near to their value to the college as is possible to determine. Although the tax committee did a commendable job in its first year we cannot help but feel that seve1·al ad- justments are still necessary and in all prob- aLility will Le made next spring. He'll put the blackg·uards under locks; * * • Sl:mley Walker, city-editor of the New York Herald-Tribune and authur of \Night Club Eva\ and \City Ed1tor'\ tells this one. When the oltl. Htrald aud Tribune merged, thet e wm e left two or three old men who had served the Herald faithfctlly and whom they did not want to drop. Therefore they were allowed to retain their jobs and stay around the office to bother N. Stewart Fenton Gage Tuesday, December 11, 1934 STUDENT COUNCIL ON THE SPOT The bombshell caused by Mr. Stroebel at the meeting of the student body yesterday morning is not at all surprising. The point he raised about open nominations for the Student Council was well intended, but it re- flects a lack of a complete review of the situ- ation at the time of the installation of the first Student Council in 1932. At that time there was much complaint in the student body in connection with the Ter- race Council, then the governing organ of the undergraduate body. The Terrace Council was, as it still is, a self-perpetuating body. Birth was given to the Student Council in order to check the orgy of deals then exist- ent on the campus and to provide a govern- ing organ with some element of continuity. ln order that there could be no deals, the pro- vision for closed nominations was made. Fur one instance, the college would benefit if the Mountebanks were aLle to take more extended tours. Also, the glee club should be in a position to make hips all year around, rather than just in the second semester. The songsters ·would furnish a good attrac- tion at preparatory schools, and ought to be in a position to compete in the New Yorl\ State championships. The publicity for these organizations is capably handled through the News Bureau, and consequently there are large audiences on hand when they are on the road. FIRE PROTECTION He knows about these coups d'etat, A man who studies history. And one fine day tbe sun shall rise Upon a college wondrous wise ·where history doth alone comprise The All, the One and the Many. * • • We were going to New York to look for a job. Now we don't know: There was a young man from Old Dorp Who sought for a job in New York In spite of his letters of recom- mendation They told him he'd have to wait one hell of a while Since technological improvements had made him altogether un- necessary. * * • Union yields up her sons to foul- famed Gotham, spoiler of noble souls; a goodly number, what?- Rockwell. Oleson, Ward, Prather, Blanchard, Hislop, Bagster-Collins, :\1onda, Cooney, et aiii, * * * '.lrJ•uth-is-Stl'anger Department \Division of Tragedy) Secret Service Bureau The Bum's Ball has come and gone leaving in its wake a number of very interesting bits. * * .. Theme song of several of our more belligerent roust-a-bouters. \Here Comes the Legion with a Bam Bam,\ Paging Pop-eye et al. * * * people. About all the work that one of them did was to diligently inter- view Chauncey Depew every wee]( and bring back a long, verbose stat('mf'nt. The f'ditors grew a bit tired of this and tried all their wiles to dissuade him from bothering Mr. Depi.'W. They told him that he was an old man, that his opinion was not re~pected as once it was, that he was out of the public eye, and that finally, he just wasn't news. \Probably the reporter an- o;weJ ed, \but Chauncey is a darned nice old guy, and it's a pleasure to speak to him.\ Finding they could do no more, the editors dropped their pleas, and decided to let nt>ture take its course, which it did. About a month later, the reporter came up to the city editor, and scratching his head, told him he had decided to let Depew alone. This stunned the editor, and after he got out of the coma, he asked why. \Well you see, he's getting to be an old man, now,\ was the answer. \He's still a nice guy to tallt to, but he's run down physically. His kidneys don't work right, and by Gosh. he just can't hold anything any more.\ * * * Though it is venting one's spleen, Symphony.\ ---,o--- Notes On Our Contemporaries THOSE IDSTORIANS The history professors are up in arms again: They labored for a quarter century to put the writing of history, especially American history, on the basis of fact anal- ysis, and now they again find them- selves being encroached upon by writers who cast their history into literary molds. One of the protest- ing historians, suggests a code of fair practices for vendors of literary history. Campaigning for an NRA code for \thinking beauti- ful about America,\ he asserts: \Like canned ham, it should be labelled 'literature' not 'history'!\ Well, we always knew that some thought they were ham-storians. * APPLE POLISHERS The University of Wisconsin re- gent who most bitterly opposed the admission of co-eds to that institu- tion now has a woman's dormitory named after him-Barnard Hall. * PAGE BURBANK Iru the laboratories of the Car- negie Institute of Technology (Pittsburg, Pa.) it has been discov- ered that the sa:me nitrogen which makes crops grow better will harden certain alloys which are the basis of the new rustless steels. Under the present system, the nomin- The experience of the Beta Theta Pi fra- The Baron had the Bum's Ball confused with the Hapsburg Prom- enade-but he did look nice. and we have tried to keep personal consideration out of the column, we. have to tell this one about the Russell Sage inmates who deemed * • • RE-BAl'TIZED ations are made by the outgoing boards for ternity yesterday morning should act as a their successors and are kept secret until the tonic to other fraternities as well as to the day of election. The nominations are limited fire-ridden group. About a year ago several for each class in order that the ballots are students of Dartmouth lost their lives not unwieldy. Under any system of open through suffocation while sleeping in their nominations two things would creep into the dormitory. The Union Colleg.e fraternities picture; one, a long list of meaningless nom- inations from each class, and secondly, an excellent opportunity for fraternities and neutrals to band together in deals. Every sane-minded undergraduate wants to get as far away from deaLs as is possible. To those few who suspect that the Student Council deals within itself for the nominations, we refer you to the lists submitted for the elec- tions in May 1933, and May 1934. On these lists there was represented every type of student that there is in Union Col- lege. Most of the fraternities were repre- sented on the lists, as well as the Neutrals. As a concession to the Neutrals, who felt in 1933 that they were not given a fair are not immune to fires I In order to guamntee the residents of fra· ternity houses and college dormitories safety from fires, systems of fire alarms should be set in. The odds against a fire breaking out in any given house are great, but they al- ways break out some\vhere and safety meas- ures should be taken. Most of the buildings on the campus are old and the interiors are far from fire-proof. The fraternities have asked for police pro- tection so that fraternity robberies can be prevented. The life of any one student is worth far more than the contents of his wal- let; it is the duty of the fraternities to pro- tect their membe1·s. tl< * * In the light of less recent social social festivities one ought not to forget the Kap's latest get-together. * • * Rumor has it that Bob Shreve is all in favor of the Mountebank's \New Policy.\ * * * We pause to note that the ignoble scheme of the Beta's to commit arson on that tinder-box dog- house, that they call home, failed miserably. * * * Our Poem of the Week At Wells our Model Leaguers Spoke for Russia very well, But to their pleas that night in Scotia John Law said \Go ·back to-Wells\ * * * Uncle Philipe Morris is with us once more and we have our weekly dole to distribute to three very lucky fellows. The first goes to Big Bill Waldron for his excell~nt work on the Stu· dent Tax Committee. Capt. Ray MacDowell is the second worthy lad and gets one flat fifty along with our best wishes for a successful! ·basketball season. The third goes to Vincent Smith of the Class of 38 because of his election to the Student Council. Congratulations. Come around boys and get your just rewards and don't forget Uncle Ph11ipe. Es, Es & l3ee. \The Bold Stroke\ obscene. It is more effective with gestures, but we can supply those personally upon demand. About three weeks ago, three young from the Troy school went to see Eve LeGallienne in \L'Aiglon.\ It was grand. Their artistic feelings were all over- worked and tied into Boy Scout knots. Still under the spell of the drama, they decided to see La Gal- lienne, and so they put their heads together and composed a brilliant speech and colorful figures of Several of the colleges in the United States have changed their names. A. partial list follows: The Agricultural and Mechanical Col- lege, Jonesboro, becomes Arkansas State College; .John E. Brown Col- lege, Arkansas, becomes John Brown University; California Col- lege, Los Angeles, becomes Chap- man College; Evanston Bible School, Illinois, becomes Evanston Collegiate Institute; Colleges of the City of Detroit become Wayne Uni- versity; St. John's College, New York, becomes St. John's Univer- sity; Spokane University (a 4-year institution) becomes Spokane Val- ley Junior College (a 2-year institu- tion); St. Stephen's College (of Columbia University) has become Bard College. • • • speech. Bolstered by this, they made their way backstage and tiirl- idly knocked upon the door of the dressing-room. Like a strealt of lightning, La Gallienne herself ap- peared, in flaming red pajamas and a long cigarette holder. TURKISH MARCH Their speech vanished into thin Fifteen Turkish men are at pres ... air with their idol before them. ent enrolled at American universi- They hemmed, they hawed, they ties on scholarships granted them grew purple. Finally one blurted by •their government. out-\We're three girls frorn Rus- sell Sage College in Troy.\ FLAT FE:ET7 La Gallienne, not a whit im- The creation of a college police pressed, surveyed them calmly, course for University of Wichita took a long puff on her cigarette, (Kan.) is being considered by offi- exhaled, and opened her mouth to cials of that institution. speak. The girls literally hung upon her lips. HOW LONESOME With a twist of the eye-brows Only 1 per cent of the university and magnificent inflection, the students in Germany may be divine. Eve said, \Goody-goody~ women, in accordance with a. re- goody.\ -s. B. c, cent Nazi rulin~. · Dut< Clar Coach secon< ponen dribbl !norro nasi m alread power Arnol· Coa start J·oe 1. Last: 46 to accou had ·b to 21 first quart 10 .}: bask< taine• conte Mil year' point Cliff Van the j will getti: checl Flow Ja1 wlll play1 tilt : two play' stitu duri1 shoo his pa.st dU{!€ scor Af has dow Tinl but able seve othe Ken seco acti• sibl1 as a gre! T fit. Cap \:So brii lee~ gua fu.cl in 1 F sho Te! wil jun las I an< bri a,bl is E an' pin Ull< ca1 th< arr an to to po gl!< inl I Ei Or of B< Bi .To F1

·II;,,,,. r- e- st in· w- el- g\ a by the re- ons the in r a ting nal- by into of of for be re- the Car- will are teels. the their The Col- Col- John Col- Bible the Uni- New Val- (of pres ... them police offi- be a. re- THE CONCORDIENSIS, T,UESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1934 ·- ~ j( .:_.., JJ:,l,) I. I Frosh. Basketball Squad Shil)v>s J:lromise in Drills tt · .. . · *7',; j'i _ I . .. _ I. I ;j,.f¥1!3. ~t .it . :. e.' . t; !i _ .,;__ i Li .:~ti.di+ rllt :hWifiYF??Y=ii-.t>41~'i\f : ... 1 iJL.JS.~ l-J?I,. -~t --1, ·•-rt:r-~1~ .. · 0 h· Gamet To Oppose Clarkson SeasonLooksGood 1 StudentsReprese!lt r11 l I H 0 H For Hockey Team Italy and Russia J.. A. Rickard Co. SPORTING GOODS The fzeshman basketball team, .1. ec 1 n · oop pener ere -- · -- -----~- Large Squad of Twenty-five Frost, JHiall, Olson, Waldron unde!\ the tutelage of Coach G. Ell~ot Hatfield, has ·been practic- Dut \'h•\''le~~ to Meet Secoi\'d Mo\'t Powerftil Opponent ·Offe''\'· Excellent Reserves Defend Countries' Policies \' u. u ca J. \' \'\\ ing daily, occasionally opposing the In Attempt to Duplicate Last Year's Victm·y; Me- To Back Up Veterans At Model L.eague Council varsity in scrimmages. From a • Dowell, Milano, Waldron, Moffett, Semerad .Start --- group of about thirty candidates he ~ The llockey situation at Union The college League of Nations nas cut llis squad down to thirteen· Skates-Sidis Skates Sharpened College has taken great strides tor :Model Council Deiegation, under men. the ,bette:t· tbi:o year in that more the ct.ail·manship of Chal·loo R. Grant Smith, Ted Podbielski, Clarkson Tech, considered by I Coach Nels Nitchman to be Union's • secend most formidable court op- I ponent, will oppose the Garnet · dribblers in the season's opener to- · morrow night in the Alumni Gym- • nasium at 8 o'clock. Clarkson .has already demonatrated its scoring· power in a con vincirrg victory over. Arnold CoHege, 56 to 29. Intramural Basketball Leagues men are showing a much greater. G h b \\rest J·z·., ~5, attended tt.e :mnuui emge IJoyle, Vince Smith and interest for the game t an ever · e- ~· \ fore. .About .twenty~five men have autumn sess!on on Friday and 0hazlie J\Ict..arthy look like a pes- reported to Head Coach H. Laur-, Saturday, LJccember 7 and 8, aL ,;ihle slcuting lineup, with Johnny ence Achilles and Leona~d Clark Wells ~.-oHege, AmoHJ.-on-Ca~uga. Schultz and Van Ladd as the eut-.· and they have been working out· d\ Th •rh T.he in.erests of ·Italy were Lie- :stan 1ng resezvcs. e other men • 253 STATE ST. Schedule daily at l\1r. Achilles horne. ey on the sc1uad include Herm Gzeu- have ·been handicapped in their fended by Charles TI.. Frost jr., ant: li~k. Jerry S!Jellman, Lenny Schultz, effol'ts to a great .extent by a lack John D. Hall '36, while \Viliiam :Phil Du.;;cher·er, Don Buchanan and of ice, but that has also been pre- Waldron '35, and Carl Olson 'il\i, ·1 e- Bin Hawkes. Phone 4-96,12 Coach Nitchman will probably· start Captain Ray MacDowell and J·oe Milano in the forward berths .. Last year McDowell starred in the 46 to 36 victory over the Tech five, accounting for 18 points. Union had. ·been .at the short end on an 18 to 21 score at half time. In the first three minutes of the third quarter the Gamet hoopmen tallied 10 .points, including four field baskets ·by McDowell, and main- tained their lead for the rest of the Tonight Phi Sigma Delta vs. Alpha Delta Phi (7:30). sent .for the past d·ay or so and a decided improvement over the 1933 presented the U. S. S. R. Dr. ------------~---_.:~:=:::::::=:=:=:::::::=::::::::::=:::~ squad is noticeable. Philip Mosely, Instructor 'n Euro- contest. Alph!ll Phi Delta vs. City Neutrals (8:30). •Five Vetl.>Ioans Back Frida3' . Phi Sigma Kappa vs. Delta Chi There a1 e five veterans of last (7:30). . yea;r's six. back for action this year. Theta Nu Epsilon vs. Kappa Lead ·by Laptain Willie Jenkins· Alpha (8:30). they are lookm.g for·ward to one oi Satlll'day the brightest seasons ever to be ex- Kappa Sigma vs. Theta Delta .Chi perienced by a Garnet hockey team. (1:15). Jenkins is the center of the team Psi Upsilon vs. Beta Theta Pi as he was last year when he wa.s (.2:15). one of the sparlt.p!Ugs of the team. \' * * Hugo· Bergman and Summerhayes, Results the wingmen, a1·e also veterans 01 last year and look better this year tnan they aid at any time during Phi Sigma Delta 34, Phi Sigma 1933. Another veter-an, Austin Fox, \Vald.l·on At Center Kappa 22. will again be at detense and his Alpha Phi Delta 25, Kappa Nu 17. running mate will be Phil Little, Milano played at center in last Theta Nu Epsilon 19, Delta Chi who repot ted. for the sqUad last year's encounter, and rung up 10 17. · year but was kept out of action points, matching his giant opponent, City Neutrals 38, Kappa Sigma with a leg injury sustained: in foot- Cliff Flowers, basket for basket.· 14. ball. A. l:'. \v althets will again be Van Waldron will no doubt do Phi Sigma Delta. (34) FG FP T iJeen at l'>~s old position at goalie the J'umping for the Dutchmen. He Gold ..... , ............ 2 0 4 ~ndhwil be p•a~in~ hi:; second yem Friedman . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 2 m t e cage. will have his hands full, both in Schultz .. , ..... , ...... 8 0 16 Wealth of Reserves getting the tap and holding in Galuten .. , ............ 2 1 5 check the high scoring Captain Dworsky . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 0 6 Flower. Saiewitz ....... , ..... , 0 1 1 There is also a wealth of reserve material, among it many sopho- mores who strengthen the squad considerably. The most promising i:o Tompkins a sophomore who has great ability and is showing him- self to be a worthy man for the squad. The only tro~ble is that he has met with scholastic difficult- ies and has been declared inelig- ible and won't 'be able to play until February. Bo·b Warner and Emans are the reserve wingmen. Jack Moffett and Ralph Semerad will occupy the guard posts. Jack played \Hoots\ Gaffney in the 1933 tilt and held the fast forwa!'d to two points on fouls. Semerad played forward at the time, s:<b- stituting for McDowell. In practiCe during the last few weeks, his shooting b:as given evid·ence that his constant improvement in the pa.st three years is going to pro- du<:!e interesting r·esults in the scoring column. \Jiggs\ In Reserve Salad ................. 0 0 0 Effron ................ 0 0 0 Total ........ , ...... 16 2 34 Phi Sigma Ii.apl}a (2Z) FG Fl' T Vandecar . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 2 12 Thompson . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Van Auker ........... 0 0 0 Blaisdell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 0 • 6 Hull .................. 1 0 2 Thraloney .............. 1 0 2 Wisenburn ............ 0 0 0 Neumann .... , ........ 0 0 0 Wilsey ................ 0 0 0 Kimball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Total ............... 10 2 22 ... * • Kappa Nu (17) FG Spellman .............. 2 Wohl ................. 2 Friedman ............. 2 Kessler ............... 1 FP 0 1 0 0 0 1 Added to this there is an abund- a.nce of other material at the com- mand: of the coaches who are worlt- ing hard to get the squad into shape for the first game January 12 against a crack Middlebury six. No definite first team has been an- T nounced as yet .but it is pretty cer- 4 tain that the men mentioned above 5 will be seen on the rink when the 4 college hockey season is opened 2 next month. Muroff ................ 1 2 17 pean History, accompanied the Union Delegation aci l'acuity Ad· visor. As rapporteur on the Saar LfUCG- tion, Charles R. Frost jr., .presented a summazy of the c.ction to date ir preparation for the January 13 . 1935, plebi3cite. In the discussion which ful!O\' e<i, John !J. Hall, em· phasized the l•';un~u-Geo!llan ag;ec- inent condthicd under italian aus- pices last week, while the German observe!' at the Council annc,uncec her government's decision to 1 elurn to Geneva. In the discu.s::ion on d:sarmarr ent 0arl Olson foughL to include in the C:ouncil's r·econm:endation,; tb Soviet defimlion @I tl.e agze3s,H ln the debate on minoril) guu:an tees., William Vvuldrcn PXJli<Jine• .o the Council the sue ceo>~ \'hici- •he Soviet Union ~;,aili.s ha;:; t.L tended its method of solving this complicated problem, while, in a sharp exchange with the :Polish de- legate, Charles R. l!'rost jr., declinec: to discuss Italy's tl eatn:ent of the German minority in Sonth TyroL John D. Hall made a spirited de- fense of Hum;ary's position in her conflict with Yugoslavia, leaving the way 0 pen to a peaceful arrange- ment between Italy and France. Hall's resolution of sympathy with France at the loss of Barthou re- ceived special mention in the fac- ulty critique made by Mr. Walton Moore of Rochester University, on behalf of the Faculty Advisors. The six visiting delegations were delightfully entertained by Wells College. On Friday evening a film version of the well-known German comedy, \Der Hauptmann von Ko- penick,\ wa.s shown in Macmillan Audito~ium, followed by dancin:g at Wallcourt House. As substitutes Coach Nitchman has \Jiggs\ Rotunda and Bill Bran- dow as forwards, along with Jack Tinkle. All three are short men, but are speedy, aggressive, and are able to shoot. \Jiggs\ started in several games last year, but the others have no varsity experience . Ken Brown and Ray Casey, both second-year men, will be ready for action as guards. It is quite pos- sible that Rotunda may be utilized as a substitute guard because of his greater ex.perience. Total ................ 8 Alpha. l'hi Delta (25) FG Fiore ................. 1 Marra ................ 4 FP 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 3 T 2 9 6 8 0 0 0 0 Betas Conquer D. U.s In Thrilling Overtime Game The spring session of i.he Model Council will be held on April 2G and 27, at Syracuse University. Each delegation will represent the same countries. Without stressing legal- istic formalism, the Model Council shows the Geneva body at work, handles current League prvblems in a realistic give-and-take, and famil- iarizes the delegations with the na- tional interests and international relations of the individual countries. Marrata ............... 2 DiFrancesco .......... 4 Camoratta .... , . . . . . . . 0 Isogna ................ 0 Marsella .............. 0 Matarozza ............ 0 SOPHOMORE NOTICE Total ............... 11 25 The Dwyermen are a veteran out- fit. The probable starting five- Captain Cliff Flower, center, \Boots\ Gaffney and Mike Cam- bridge, forwards, and Johnny Sied- lecki and ex-captain Phil Ryan, guards, all played last year. In fact, all except Cambridge started in the contest. • • ... In three ex.tra periods the Betas downed a hard-fighting Delta Up- silon basketball team in one of the most thrilling games seen in Intra- mural competition in recent years. At the end of the regular game the two teams were tied with twenty- four points apiece. In the first .All sophomores interested in try- overtime, Bo·b Reed and Jack Hall- ing out for Business Manager of enbeck each made a foul shot again the Concorcliensis report at Silli- tieing the score. The second over- man Hall at 1:00 o'clock on Wed- time period was played: fast with nesday or call William Fitzgerald both teams making many long at the Delta Upsilon house. Delta Chi (17) FG FP T LeForestier .. ······ ... 7 0 14 Goodrich ............... 0 0 0 Flower High Scorer Milne ................. 0 0 0 Latridge ····· ......... 0 0 0 Flower, a master of the jump shot, tallied 13 points against Union. Teamed up with Gaffney he ran wild against Arnold. The latter, a junior, earned a regular position last year. He is a relia.ble forward and earns his share of points. Cam- bridge, also a junior, saw consider- a-ble relief duty last year. He too is a qonstant scoring threat. McKane Ritchie ............... 0 ................ 1 shots, none of them successful. 'l'he final period resulted in a mad OUTING CLUB NOTIOE rllilh for the ball, interceptions, The outing Club will meet sun- 1 1 0 2 0 0 0 Kern .................. Armitage ····· ......... Total ............... Theta Nu Epsilen (19) Robbin 0 ooo oOo ooo ooO I o• Lavorgna .............. Thorn 0 0 8 1 FG FP 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 17 T 3 2 0 football tactics, and wild passes day at 8:45 in Middle Section, South with many \Oh's\ and \Ah's\ from College, then drive out to the the spectators. Emerging from a Plotter Kill. Those planning to go medley of players under the Beta sbould notify Robert North at the basket, Charlie Krull flip.ped the Delta Upsilon House 'before Thurs- ·ball through the net for the win- day noon~ ning basket. ;=;:;:;::;~~~;;;;~~~~~ The game was a seesaw affair· fi · ---- --· --- .................. Kern ••• ~ ! • ! • ~ • ~ ••••••• 4 2 10 Robinson 1 0 2 Siedleck is a heady iball player and always .pulls through in pinches. He is especially dangerous underneath the basket. Ryan, who captained the team last year al- though only a junior is rated among the fastest on the squad, and has demonstrated great ability to dribble through the opposition to score. His \blind\ passes to all points on the court have caused a gveat deal of annoyance to oppos- ing defenses. Coach Dwyer has as reserves Eddie Collins, •a cool steady center, Orv LaBarge and Ed Bowhay, both of whom have seen action before, Bob Ames, and the sophomores, Bill Fiessinger, Howie Raaflaub, Joe Proterra, Lefty Langelier, and Fran Blackley. ............. Frasier . ............... 1 Van Wormer ........... 0 Total ............... 8 • • \' Kappa Sigma (14) FG Clark ................. 0 Lindabury ............. 1 Wilson ................. 1 Rankine .............. 1 Potts .................. 0 Halstron ............... 3 Fall ton ................ 0 City Neutrals (33) FG Mirate ................ 5 Podbielski ............ 3 Naguszewsk1 .......... 7 :UeTarte ................ 1 Lambeth I 000 000 000 OoOO z Total ................ 18 0 2 0 0 3 19 FP T 0 0 0 2 1 3 1 3 0 0 0 6 0 0 FP T 0 10 2 8 0 14 0 2 0 4 2 38 Week's Best Editorial hard to leave a maximum of knowl- edge in every student's mind, it is from the beginning with Gus Schneiderwind and Dain holding the spotlight. Beta Theta Pie had a lead of two points at the half and lengthened: this as the second half started. The iead was soon over- come by remarkable shots .by Reed and Schneiderwind and the result- ing overtime periods were neces- sary. Gus also led both teams in scoring honors making seven baskets for a total of fourteen points: The summaries: Seta Theta Pi (Z7) G Brown ................ 2 Hallenbeck . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Merri:rnan . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Krull .................. 3 Dain ........•...•..... 3 McNab •............... 2 Totals .......... , .... 10 Delta. 'Upsilon (25) G Schnelderwind . . . . . . . . 7 Olson ............•.... 1 Everest ............... 1 Reed ..•............... 2 Da. vldson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Fenton ...•.•........ ,. 0 Totals ..........•..•. 11 F 1 1 0 0 3 2 7 F 0 0 0 2 1 0 3 T 5 1 0 6 9 6 27 p 14 2 2 6 1 0 25 Guy Garis, referee. Three over- time periods-(3 min) Period : 8 minutes. EDUCATIONAL RELATIONS ironical that these students should Granting the premise that stu- be opposed to acquiring more wis- dents are becoming more serious- dom than the irreducible minimum minded, the time is ripe for the required to graduate. And this un- gradual breaking down of the desirable condition is exaggerated ridiculous conception that educa- by a puerile taboo against any out- tlon is a contest between student of-class conversation with instruc- and instructor. This idea engen- tors on the grounds that it might dered In school days tends to per- improve a grade unfairly. Although sist in college with the attendant' the mark system undoubtedly as- loss of valuable contacts between sists the perpetuation of this atti- teacher and taught, and makes pos- tude, its continued existence is a sible a condition wherein men gra;b commentary on the intelligence of their diplomas with a victorious undergraduates. sigh that they have won said con- An \ideal relationship\ between test despite the strong opposition student and instructor is the goal of the-Faculty. This attitude is of education; and until this is ap- subversive to education and must proachfild in most colleges, Ameri- be discouraged. can education will be weak. Stu- Whe~ i~structors a.ctqal!y worlt .dent c!lllil on proteijsors s}lould be encouraged, not discouraged by un- enlightened taboos. Intelligent con- versation is valuable and educa- tional, and those who seek it from their· teachers are to be commend- ed and not accused of illicit mark- grabbing, On to Parnassus! .-The WUlla.m~t Becord Before You Go Home For Xmas Pick Out Dad's Gift at Vi nick's This Men's Shop carries a complete and exclusive line of gifts for Brother or Dad. A$hop For Men &67 STATE STREET Near Clinton Street Ned Door to Liggett. HOME, JAMES! • FARES REDUCED TIMES THE 0 N E-WAY FARE FOR ROUND TRIP TO MANY CITIES DEC. 14- JAN. I RETURN LIMIT JAN. 13 For Christmas 1-lolidays Congratulations, students! You need no longer fear that your cellmate - in an unguarded moment - will pawn your extra pair of pants or hock your jewelry to raise the fare neces- sary to go home Christmas. Greyhound's excursion rates eliminate that danger. This Christmas you can make the trip home in a modern, comfortably-heated coach, piloted by one of the finest drivers on Amer- ican highways. Join in the good fellowship aboard, or recline your deeply cushioned chair to the most comfortable angle and let the miles roll by unheeded. Greyhound's frequent schedules enable you to leave almost as soon as your last class is over - and stay until the last possible moment before you return. EASTERN GREYHOUND TERMINAL 277 State Street Phone: Schenectady 4-5521 HOME FOR THE CHRISTMAS t2o HOLIDAY? WAf kmlk 1fouiL ~ QUICKLY MUf ECONOMICALLY Don't spoil the thrill of getting home again by worrying about the shipment of your baggage. Solve the problem by leaving everything to Railway Express. We will call for your trunks, baggage and personal belongings and send them home an fast passenger trains through to destination. You can takeyourtrainhom.ewith peaceofmind-knowing that your .baggage will be there quickly and safely. Railway Express service means economy. We give a receipt on pick-up and take a receipt on delivery ••• double proof of swift, sure handling. If you cannot go home, send your presents to your family and friends by Railway Elqlress. For service or information merely call or telephone NEW YORK CENTRAL STATION Phone 4-8512 Schenectady, N. Y. Tlte best there is irJ transportation SERVING THE NATION FOR 95 YEARS RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY. Inc. NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE

Four TilE CONCORDIENSIS, 'DUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1934 Concert .. goers . Phi Sigma Kappa Established wonderful job. In the face of na:. ical ones for every fraternity, but tion-wide financial distress the Phi Sigma Kappa is marching on': At Mass, Agriculural Sclt.ool chapters of Phi Sigma Kappa are with unfaltering step and un-. To Hear Meyer ___ holding firm. : daunted purpose. Its best years of The next few years will be cri:t- service lie ahead. Commentator for the :Boston Symphony to Speak Here Tomorrow Evening DAIRY (Continued from Page 1) very little present sentiment 'for 7~~;;;~;:;;~;;;~;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;~~~;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;~ additional chapters, although tile' r gates have not ·been irrevocably closed. 'l'he effort now is to· con- , solidate and hold that which we : have, and in this great taslt the ' present administration is doing a Alfred H. Meyer, lecturer on music, will address the Civic Music Association tomorrow evening in Memo1·ial Chapel at 8:30 o'cloclt on the program which the Boston Symphony Orchestra is to play at the Mont Pleasant High School Saturday evening. There is no charge for the lecture, but admis- sion will only be upon presentation of Civic Music membership cards. Fire Drives Betas Oil t Of '\Varm Beds Into C()ld Mr. Meyer, who is professor of music history and theory at Boston University and regular lecturer at the Boston Public Library, Boston Symphony progran:L series, and at the children's concerts of the or- chestra, will explain from the scores the numbers on Saturday's program. Numerous victr·ola re- cordings will be utilized to augment the lecture. The program which the or- chestra is to present is particularly worthy of the intelligent consider- ation which .Mr. .Meyer's tallt to- morrow evening should make pos- sible. Comprising Mozart's \Mar- riage of B'igam\ overtute, Beeth- oven's \Eroica and the ],1ous- sorgsky \Pictme at an Exhibi- tion,\ it represents three distinct musical generations in chronolog- ical order, and three great but markedly different types of music. Mozart's finely wrought texture of charming melodies and superb contrapuntal structure, with the in- evitable highly intellectual appeal of abstract music, is as different from the magnificent ruggedness and grandure of the Beethoven Third Symphony, with its pro- foundly emotional appeal, as is the general programmatic nature of this symphony from the specific programme of .the Moussotgsky suite. Similarly, the Beethoven symphony, one of the greatest and most radical forward leap:; in the history of art, contains much that Mozart would not have under:;tood and, the MoU>'tiOigsky work many effects never heard by Beethoven. The Moussorgsl;y \Pictul es at an Exhibition\ were at fil;;t eolllposed as piano pieces, inspired by an ex- hibit of Victm· Hartmann'• paint- ings which Moussorgsky attended after his friend's death. They pre- sent, in th:eir original form, an al- most commanding opportunity for orchestration, ~o 1 ich are they in a coloring that can be made infinitely mom effective b\' the tonal facil- ities of the sympl~ony orchestra. ---o---- Jul\e•s Sister Brand:.; Lnion Boys Infidels in Her I\lemnir (ContinU<·d ftum Pa:..;o ll edge, and be pt q•al t'd, us sc,on_ as possible, to en:et the fil'ld whkh hJ already whilL' for ha 1 Vt':':. whi!P thousand~ alrncJ.~t at .~~u tl!10b, all 1 fan1h;hinr.;- fot t~w wotd \f life·.\ 11 You :tn• l1f1\\' f'q,:l::r·rl to n1any tPmptati<>l1~ f1om th<· ;·orie:y around you,\ w1ites Ann on Jan- uary J;) of tlw n< x~ , ... ,.,r. Thf' young lady <'<>llld1C:e..J w;\11\ warn- in~ that \. . ~~.nlt' v:i!l lie· in ~~au ron>'tantl~·. to tlllnW Y\ll <CI::lliPs' off your ~U:l!'d thc•tPfnJe \CHI will have to wat('h \l1Jt·1 ptayi~J·, daily to irnplo:·•• :m add:tinnal ~upply nf gracf' from r;.,.J ; ineKh'lliRt ,-,hiP fount:-::in . J.,.t- :p·~· ynnng ~t,tdPnt, amid the trying ;;eenes of a culle- giat<' life d.lil~· •·••mt>mht>r tlli,; . . \ Conctinued from Page· 1) the ceiling of the cellar and th<: floor. After warming up in the Chi ·Psi Lodge, some of the Betas vent t.u,ed back to see w·hat damage had been done. Stan ~1ownr kept a close eye on the fireu1en to see that no unnece:>:>aty damage was done by their mighty axes. Charlie Krull, captain-elect of the football, was content to \let the house burn down,\ as long as the qum tel's he found in the Chi P\i Lodge '\ere comfortable and warm. One of the rarest sights of the conflagration, a\ reported to the conespondent who arrived a bit late, was Paul Campbell '37 get.ting dressed on the front lawn. H \Ia~ :.tlso reported that he toolt no chances with his life, but tos£ed all his clothing out of the window aad piled right out after it. At approxm1ate•y 1:45 e\'el)Lil.n~ had quieted down and ·breakfa>-l was :>erved for the refugees in. the Chi Psi Lot!ge. The cau::;e- of the file has not been determine<! as yet, hut it iti l.elicv·cd to have stalled from >Jon;c .cmouldering <!ebrh; lod!;ed irr thr flue of the fireplace. CHARLES' Fo~~~ 1 Y The Ortlelal Union Co11e~;e 'BarbeT ror the past 2-l years. Ask any llpper classmen, they- know. 11 {)perators. Schenectady's greatest barber. COR. STATE A:s-D BROADW .AY When Ann ci:ed of con,umption on May 30. p;;;•;. ('hill'\\' was lt•ft withuut a g U! de tt·J pl~:,tect hi-nl fl om the academic inftdels. The records, however. show that Charl<>s was ahl<> to t·li:t? C'are of himself until h1~ .<udtl<>n death. caused by a C'<'t ••b1 al h<>mon hage while the lad wa..; un a short vtsit home in July. 18~7. THE STICKEM SISTERS! LANSlMC'S 215 North Ten Broeck Street SCHENECTADAY- Phone 2-7758- SCOTIA SCHENECTADY ENGRAVlNG CO'MPANY, INC. 147 JAY STREET Schenectady, New York PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. FERRY STREET Sc:henec:tady, N. Y. Gazette Press For Stude·nts a·nd F·aculty Ra:il :Fares Reduced 1J3 The railroads appreciate the enthusiastic responses of students U!ld faculty to the \College Special\ fares which combine econ- omy with the great advantages of rail travel-safety, speed, com· fort and convenience. If yoli bought one of the reduced fate round-trip tickets when you came to school this Fall, the coupon is good returning home ·between December 10 and 25. When coming back after the Holiday, be sure to take advantage of this one and one· third fare ticket, the.purchase date for which has been extended to J~uary 16. Diagram below shows going and return dates. GOING TO SCHOOL RETURNING FROM SCHOOL Round-trip ticket ~nay be Return· portion of ticket may be used to Home Sta• purchased at Ho:ane Stn- tion during any one of the periods· -nained below: t:ion during any one of 1--C-h_r_i-st_rn_a...:s;__..,..-~-S-p~ri-n-g_:__-,--~C-1-o-se---1 the periods named below: 1934 1935 193S Dec. 25, 1934-Jan. 16, 1935 Mar. 15-Apr. 23, 1935 Dec. 10-25 Mar. 9-Apr. 20 May 15-June 30 Mar. 9-Apr. 20 May IS-June 30 May 15-June 30 Going trip must begin on date ticket is purchased-limited to reach school station within ten days. Return trip must begin on date of validation of ticket by railroad agent at school station- limited to reach home station within ten days. Tickets good over same route both ways. Stop-overs will be allowed in each direction. Tickets good in coaches, also in Pullman cars, upon .payment of regular Pullman charges. Baggage will be checked undet' the usual regulations. No certificate or other form of identification necessary. • TRAVEL BY TRAIN Assuring your co:rnfort with speed Your convenience with safety. CENTRAL PASSENGER AND TRUNK LINE ASSOCIATIOI-l RAILROADS =··---:-:---· ..... ·-:-:::---:~:-;:···-· :-:-:-::=::~~:~-\!~~~r~~::~~~;~:;::;:~~~~~;~~r:1~~?:~:~:~::::~~~~r~~:~~~:~~~:r:;;~~;;~;:;:;;~:::::~:~~~r:i::;~:(;·~:;:;~:~=~::::::~ ·:::::.:::·:::,.:::::::::::::::::':::::\·:r::': .. · .·. ;:;:·: ::(=-- .. -. ·::=-·-: .:::~:~:::)~}:::::.:i}:i::} ... .-·-: :·;.::-.-_:: ,•' · .. _:.:: . . . . _.-:- ....... · .. : There's something about the fragrance and aroma of a Chesterfield that is pleasing •. and different .-:~ :·._. ::·:.- ::~-· -, ~~r:::::::~; :;;;··: ~=-:;~::~~: ::· :::······ ·--:-:-:: --:: . .. • • ' ' '·-··· ' •.• ·.~ ··-·-···:·~:·!·\·:;··-·-·-·-·-·-·-~-·-······=·~-~-·->:•:-::·····-··· ::··:·: ' . . . '• .. -.· . . -::.·· ·-:·.-:·. lovely go!;' ... the great~•• pair of Clinging Vines tho! ever come to Kollidge. Clever no end I Con mend and Iobei book1, mo .. nl I paper on lhe drawing board ond help in I countless other places where paper or cloth must be stuck to each ot\-N or to wc-o:l, doth, gloss or leather. A1k for 'em by nomoi tl1e .. £igarette thafs 1\tJ.~~J?EK: ··.·,:.::.,:,. · . tlte·. ct.gatette .·that. TASTEs;.:.nliiT.Eit:·::::~:::·::'~:::·::.::::::.::·:. . . · ... ·•·• -·-.· •. -.:. .... =·-::.\·:.::·:·:··::- ... -:..: ...... -.·:·.·. CIIAS. M. HIGGINS & CO., 2119th Sl., flklvn. N.Y. HIGG!NS' DRAWING BOARD & LIBRARY :PASTE '' -:···:---·,·. -:·=········ .;::. ·.::-::-:··-.·d··:-:• --·::·:-;! .. :.· .. :--. ..... - .. -.·:·.·;: .-;;;:; ···-·:::·,• r I l v ~ ( I: c A Sl u I \ (

: :· .· .. : ·: ,.;:: ···:·:·:: . ·.···.·. ···::·:·:1 -··!\·· .... , fu Choir i • , .• \Y\ Sponsors A Community And Glee Club t tS I Carol Sing tWill Present Sunday Two Sunday Night Services 1 ••• • a\ • • ..... ...-.J Vol LVIII., No 24 PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, DEGEl\rBER 14, 1934 M usl·c t. 0· Usher In.lor •. Luhr Awarded Grant B!. :Mountebanks Will CALENDAR Ton1orrow u. :!National Research Council ·. M Christmas Season --- Play Before :any I Ch l S d , , Dr. overton Luhr, instructor in· S ·h } 1'h• Year n . . ape u.n ay: Physics, was l'ecently awarded a c 00 s :IS ' Tuition installment payable at Bursar·~ Office. Community Sing to Climax Christmas Service Sunday Choir, Glee Club Combine Sing Traditional Hytnns Contribution to Services 1 grant of ~375 by the National Re- to':search Council as an aid in further- Negotiations Under Way for as :ing the work which he has been Performances in High and. :carrying on for the past two years l · at the Massachusetts Institute of Preparatory Schoo S . iTechnology. His 1•esearch is on SOU·rces of large quantities of protons and alpha particles to ·be used for the Ancient French Bm·o·undian ,more effective .bombardment of. ' \' :various elements. This •bombard- Old Carols Featured S()ngs on P:rogram ; ment of different elements by high ';.,peed particles is of great inte~·est . . . .· . . . to physicists at the presen~ time Unwn Will usher m ·Chiistmas on:: because of the transmuta:tion of sunday with the traditional musical 'matter which is being obtained programs at both the morning: the1·eby. . .. service and the afternoon recitaL o---- Under the dit·ection of Dr. Elmer· Model Assembly To A. Tidmarsh, the combined glee club and choir will sing old carols, Meet in New york modern sacramental music, and familiar hymns. Dr. Tidmarsh will play special Christmas selections on the organ as a part of both events. League of Nations Al'ticle, Chaco Dispute, World Econ~ omy to Be Probable Topics The program for the morning · service, which will he broadcast as usual by station WGY, is as follows:· The ·Chaco dispute, a planned Organ prelude, \Christmas hY. world economy, and revision. ot Dethier, pla:yed by Dr. Tidmarsh. Article XVI of the League of Na- Prayer and choral response, \Silent Night,\ by the choir. tions Covenant will .probably con- Old French carols, \Sing Noel.\ st!tute the agenda for the 1935 \When the Wol'id was White with .sesl!ion of the Model Assembly ot Winter,\ and \At Solemn Midnight the League of Nations, Dr. Philip Came a Call,\ by the choir. Moseley announced today. These Hymn 115, \0 Come All Ye Faith- c 1 uestions will be considered by the ful,\ by the ·Congregation. Continuation Committee of the Carols, \Midwinter and \Pat-a- Pan,\ by the choir. League at its meeting in New Yorl1: \Noel . Ecossais,\ played by Dr. Tidmarsh. Carols \Tres Magi de Gentibus,\ \Lo Ho:.V a Rose E'er Blooming,'' and' \March of the Wise Men,'' by the choir. Hymn 110, \0 Come, 0 Come,\ by Handel, by the Congregation. Carols, \Here a Totch, Jeannette, Jsabella\ \Ye Burghe1·s All of Chartre~,\ and \Sleep Little Dove,\ by the ch{)ir. \Christmas Evening,\ by Mauro- Cottone, played by Dr. Tidmarsh. Carols, \While By My Sheep 1 Watched at Night,\ and \Christmat Song,'' Holst, by the choir. Benediction. 'l'he program for- the afternoon recital follows: \Veni Immanuel,\ choral impro- visation by Edgerton; \Jesu Bam- bino,\ and Journey of the Wise Men,\ played by Dr. Tidmarsh. Carols, \Sing Noel,\ \At Solemn Midnight Came A Call,\ and \Carol of the Russian Children,\ by the choir. \Nativity by Du.pre, \Christmas Evening,\ .by Mauro-Cotonne, \March of the Magi Kings,\ Dubois, played by Dr. Tidmarsh_ Carols, \While I Watched My Sheep a.t NiKht,\ \:Pat-1! and \Christmas Song,\ by the choir. 'Hallelujah Choru-s fl'om Handel's \Messiah played by Dr. Tidma!\sh. tomorrow, The coming session, Dr. Moseley said, will be .held at New York Un~­ versity, Thursday-Saturday, Apnl 11-13. Robert Tilove of New York University has been appointed sec- n:tary-genetal. Other office1s of the Assembly are to be chosen at the meeting of the Continuation \)omrnittee tomorrow. The customary Thursday evening lecture-session of the Assembly will not be held, to allow the delegates more opportunity to attend New York theaters and other attractions. Friday moming the Assembly will open with a formal plenary session. fhe three topics on the agenda will be given consideration that after- noon in committee meetings. Sat- urday morning a sub-committee for each committee will meet to draft a proposal, based on the previous debate, that is most likely to be approved by the committee, which will meet later in the morning to draft its report. The final plenary session, Sat- urday afternoon, will receive and act upon the committee 1 epo1 ts. The session will close with the of- ficial critique of the Assembly, given by a guest adviser. Friday evening the formal dinner-ball of the session will be held. Monthly Broadcasts Half Hom Programs Will Be Presented Over Air The Mountebanks have success- fully concluded their Fall p1·oduction with three perfol'tnances in the cam- pus theater and three appea1·ances before audiences away. Work has already started on .the Spring pro- duction of Ibsen's \An Enemy of the People,\ and plans for the next year's pruduction a1 e being dis- cussed. The Mountebanks played to large audiences for thtee nights on the campus. Only the small seating ca- pacity of the theater prevented a larger non-student attendance. The Hudson Falls performance, sponsored by the Glens Falls alumni, resulted in a deficit ·Of over $100, but this will be made up in great part by the financially successful per- fc.rmauce given at the Albany Acad- emy under the auspices of the Al- bany Alumni Association. The Mountebanks have a fund of $300 for deficits that may be incurred on .road performances. · The park scene from Mrs. Cent- livre's comedy, \A Bold Strolte for a Wife\ whch was given before the student.s of Albany Academy at a special assembly wru;; received with great enthusiasm. After the full per- formance of the play at night, Dr. Islay F. McCormick, headmaster, in- vited the Mountebanks to present Ibsen's play at the Academy in the Spring and declared he would allow the alumni to use the theater with- out a rental fee. The Gloversville Teachers Aeso- ciation have written a request for a ·performance of the Ibsen play and negotiatiop.s are now under way for .performances during the Easter re- cess. Bennington College will prob- ably be included among the colleges and one or two of the preparatory schools in New England will also be on the list of road performances. The trailer built to haul the Mountebanks scenery, although not yet completed, has. been successful in carrying the heavy properties needed for the Hudson Falls and Al- bany performances. The trailer will be wired so that it may be lighted oy battery or by regular electric cur- Tent. When completed it will be painted a grey color with the Mountebanks and college names in garnet. A great saving in transpor- tation expenses is eftected by the use of the trailer. Milton M. Enzer, graduate man- ager, has also completed arrange- ments for a month1y broadcast over (Continued on Page 4) ---0•--- Federal Education Is The Subject of Radio Debate Daily Assembly-Mr. Augustus P. Zabuesnic. 8:00-Varsity .Basketball, Union vs, Middlebury, Alumni Gymnasium .. Sunday 11:00--Bervice of Christmas Music by the Choir, Memo- rial ChapeL 4 :00-0rgan Recital of Chris- tmas Music, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, assisted by the Choir, Memorial ChapeL -----------------------~ College Supp()rt Presidents, New Deal Editors Capacity Crowds Expected to Policies ·Join in Second Annual Fes tival Sponsored by \Y\ Chapel to Be Decorated Choirs of Other Churches to Sing From Chapel Balcony 8:00-Christmas Carol Singing, lead by Dr. Tidmarsh, Mem- orial Chapel. 'rhat college and university presi- dents and student newspaper editors a1e in the majority, sup- portets ef President Roosevelt and the New Deal, was proven by the \vote of confidence\ given Demo- cratic leaders and policies in a poll of 200 pre~idents and editors made · The division between the two major Momlay Tuition In:stallment payable at Bursar's Of.fice. 7:30 --Philomathean Society Meeting, Old Chapel. -Band Rehearsal, Alumni Gymnasium. Tuesday Daily Assembly - Spen.kc1·, Mr. Howard l\L Smyth. 12:45-Radio Club Meeting, .Elec- trical Enginee1ing Building. 1:30-Y. M. C. A. Cabinet Meet- ing, Silliman Hall. 7:30-Physics Club .Meeting, Physics Labratory. -Chemisll-y Club Meeting, Chemistry Labratory. 7:45-French Club Meeting, Sil- liman Hall. Foote N e'v Member Of Paper's Board Publications E()ard Decision To Integt·ate Gamet Staff, Compensate Editors Told Wallace T. Foote '36, of Schenec- tady, was elected to the junior board of associate editors of The Concordiensis at the meeting of the Publications Board, Wednesday aft- ernoon. Foote, an .Alpha Delta Phi pledge, spent his fi.rst two years in college at Princeton University. In his short term at Union he has already won distinction by playing the lead in the recent production of the Mountebank.s, \A Bold Stroke For a Wife.\ Foote is also member ot the college choir and is on the Dean's List. At the same meeting it was de- cided to integrate the .Garnet staff so that candidates for editor and business manager would work con- junctively in competition for ·both positions at the same time. It was (;J.;plained that this move might permit one frat€rnity to have the editor or the business manager in successive years, but it would be strictly in accord with the policy of the Publication Board which has been, to elect the best tnan possi·ble for each position regardless of the fraternity connections of the can- didates. by the Collegiate Digest recently. The second annual Christmas partie,; was editors, 60 per cent song service which will be held Democ1ato, and ·lO per cent Repub- Sunday evening at eight o'clock in licans; ptesidents, 51 per cent the Memorial Chapel will climax Democrat~ and 49 per cent Repub- the college's extensive ob;;ervances lican. of the Christmas season. The Despite the fact that college morning chapel services at eleven .:!dit01s and presidents are thought o'clock and the organ recital at JY the layman to be either com- four in the aftemoon· will also be _.unt~dc ot socialistic, only four of devoted to Christmas music. che editolll ·pt·ofessed to be Social- A capacity crowd is expected to ists, while not one of the college fill the chapel to sing carols undet p1esidents polled was either a So- the direction of Dr. Elmer A. Tid clalist or a Communist. No editors marsh, director of music. The com were found to •be Communists. bined Glee Club and Choir will as sist, and the singing will he heard Another question that has been on the campus outside by means of 1·aging tor sevet:al months is that· an amplifying system. The words of whether the New Deal acts of and music of the carols will be pro the Pr-esident and Congress are up- jected upon a screen so that the held by the Constitution. On this singers can more easily follow the point 83 pel' cent of the editors director. said that they considered the act» The Memorial Chapel will be de upheld .by the Constitution, while corated in keeping· with the Chris only 30 per cent of the presidents tmas spil·it. Lighted Christmas stated that they considered the act.s trees will be placed at either side of to be unconstitutional. the chancel, laurel and evergreens The presidents believe that the New Deal measures have generally bettered the condition of the people of the United States by a large majority than the editors. The vot- ing on this point was, presidents, 74 per cent, in the affirmative and editors, 69 per cent affirmatively. ---0•--- Glee Club Presents Grand Piano f m· Use in Chapel Presenting their new grand piano for use by the college, the Glee Club christened the instrument this morn- ing by using it. The piano was pur- chased by the Club so that it would have the instrument for focal ap- pearances as well as for programs at the college. It will however be kept in the chapel, and may be used for ·other musical programs which are held there, Donald C. Hawkes, '35, manager of the organization, an- nounced. The Club sang \The Reaper's Song,\ \Silent Strings,\ by Bantock, and two old French noels, \Sing Noel'' and \At Solemn Midnight Came a Call,\ as their part of the program, accompanied by Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh and Charles Reid, '36, playing a duet on the new piano. on the pulpit and lectern, and candles in the windows. The middle section ef the balcony will be reserved for members of the choirs of local churches. That ap proximately· 100 choir members are planning to attend is indicative of the interest that is being shown in the carol singing .by townspeople as well as students. With the college·:' Glee Club and Choir downstairs i1 front, and the special group on the balcony, Dr. Tidmarsh will pnbably- try antiphonal singing. _. The Christmas song service is be ing sponsored by the college Chris tian Association. William Brock wehl, '35, president of the Associa tion is general chairman in charge of the affair. Forrest Reynolds, '36 and Gerard Neuman, '35, are in charge of decorations. The service last year, the first of its kind at Union, was so successful, that the Association hopes to make the carol singing an integral part of the col lege's Christmas activities. 0 WOLD Sl'EAKS AT AUBURN Dr. Peter I. Wold, Professor of Physics, addressed the Auburn Col- lege Club at Auburn, N. Y., on December 6, on the subject, \The Nature of Matter and the Nature of Light.'' A definite schedule of compensa- tion for business manager-s and editors of publications was decided .upoh for the presen·t year-. It was felt by the Board that it would be undemocratic to nake provisions for future staffs in that conditions are ususally diffel'ent each year. The old provision of renumerating ·on a basis of .fifty per cent of the year's profits, not in ex.cess of fifty Phi Gamma Delta Founded As New Organization For Ambitious Men By GEORGE ELMENDORF Soloists for both programs will be Miss Helen Law, soprano, George Van Wert '32, violinist, Edward B. Mates '33, c·himes, and Herbert F. Hausser '34, H. William Smith jr. '33, and Reynold Crane '35. The Un,ion delegation, of which Dr. Moseley is faculty adviser, has requested the Continuation Commit- tee lo assign it Russia as its country. Last year Union repre- sented Hungary. At that time the agenda consisted of treaty revision, Manchokuo, and minority right.s. \Boys Sporting Altered Pants\ May KnockSecondTimelnPayneFamily· At the regular meeting of the per cent of the year's income from Philomathean Society, Tuesday advertising, was retained. Of that night, at 7:30 o'clock in the Old portion of the profits, The Idol Chapel, a practice debate was held staff would divide their profits as to decide the members of a team follows: fifty- per cent to the editor to meet Williams College. The and fifty per cent to the business topic fo1· discuse:;ion was resolved: manager. The Garnet staff would \That the Federal Government divide that portion of their profit Estwblish and Control Standards of as follows: thirty-five per cent to Phi Gamma Delta was founded at maintains one of the finest fratern- old Jefferson College (now Wash- ity clubhouses of America in New ington and Jefferson) at Canons- York City. It was erected in 1927 burg, Pennsylvania, on May 1st, at a cost of approximately $700,000. 1848. It is the thirteenth oldest A prosperous graduate clubhouse Greek letter society in the United is also maintained in Detroit, Mich- States. lgan. The founders were Daniel Web- In 1850 a student named Crews ster Crofts, James Elliott, Ellis B. transferred from Jeffen;on College Gregg, Samuel Beatty Wilson, to Union. However, since he found Nathan Fletcher, and John T. Me- conditions unfavorable to the es- Carty. They sought to found a ta:blishment of a chapter, it was not society based upon the princirJle of until December 8, 1893 that Chi secrecy into which none but men of Chapter of Phi Gamma Delta was distinguished talents and acquire- Instituted at Union. The first ini- ments, endowed with a high sense tiation took place upstairs in the of honor and possessed of a laud- p.resent Vendome Hotel. The new able ambition and who were mem- members secured a meeting place ·bers of some college <at the time of in the Van Vranken Building on their admission) should .be admitted the northeast corner of State and John Templeton McCarty was the Jay streets in Sehenectady. Then leader and inspiration of the society through the efforts of the late in its infancy. He designed the Professor Hoffman, a campus loca- diamond-shaped badge of the f1·at- lion was secured in the. rear half ernity. Whereas McCarty was the of what is now the .Administration spirit of the society, Samuel B. Building. The site on which the Wllson was the brain which pro- present house is built was secured vided a firm foundation for the by Dr. Steinmetz, a member of noble superstructure which the stu- Chi Chapter. The house was built dents of over three quarters of a, i-n 1907 and an addition was made By FENTON GAGE Education.\ John Argesinger '35, the editor-in-chief, thirty-five per John Howard Payne visited the travelled to New York where he and Robert Everest '37, upheld the .cent to thP business manager, and campus the other day, spending the took up pwfessional acting. affirmative, while Burns Barford thirty per cent to the mana'ging nig·ht at one of the fraternities, and The second John Howard Payne, '37, and Seymour Horwitz '35, spoke editor. The Concordiensis schedule meeting some of the officers of the graduated in the class of 1930 with for the negative side of the ques- 'provides for twenty-five per cent college. Whether or not he passed the A. B. degt ee. He was a resi- tion. The negative won a judges to each, the business manager and through the gate which bears his dent of Salem, West Virginia. He decision of 2 to· 1. Coach Robe1t ;editor-in-chief; fifteen per cent to name is immaterial, but an inter- is rep01 ted in 1934 as working in Smith and Director Frederic Wyatt each, the managing editor and esting fact is that he is very !iBJble the division of research and plan- criticized the debate as a whole, ':sports editor; ten per cent to each, to be the third individual with that ning of the N. R. A. and offered hel•pful suggestions to the fea lure editor and circulation na.me to matriculate here. He is at The most recent Payne seems the individual participants. manager. ----0---- present attending Colgate Univer- not to be in the least weighed down Burns Barford and Robert _slty where he is a frsehman, but is by the \burden\. of his heavy Everest, both sophomores, were 'Neutral Dance TomOl'l'()W To seriously considering Union for· family tree, but appeared to act like chosen to represent Union in an next year. most other young men of the times. encounter over station WGY on Be Open to Student Body John Howard, the writer of ·He plans to study architecture at January 14th with Williams College. century have exhibited. on .the rear in 1920 . \Home Sweet Horne,\ entered this some large university and ·believes At this time Union will argue the af- institution in the class of 1810, and 'that a college such as Union would firmatlve side. This will be the from histo1·ic records it has been be an excellent place to gain his third in the series of eight radio The second annual Neutral Dance, With these principles as a found- The fraternity, at present, is pre- rE-vealed that •·At college he was primary instruction. debates. popular and occassionally unmanag- With a descendant of the eminent Next Monday night, an open dis- able , , .,\ and that he published Dr. Nott aheady in the college and cussion on the varsity subject will a paper of his own, as well as par- the possibility of having a member be held in the Old Chapel at 7:30. tlcipating in theatricals. In this of the Payne family, the line \Some Professor Chillrild of the Psych- connection, he wrote a play which boys who s.port ow· altered pants ology Department, who specializes he presented in chapel. playing the shall knock at Union's door,\ takes in educationaal psychology, will be leading feminine roll. He left on a new significance. History present to aid the debaters in the Union after tb.ree yeat·s and then, does repeat itself. formation of their cases. first all-college dance of the year, ation the fraternity has thrived sided over by George F. Snyder. will be held tomorrow night at the until now there are 73 undergradu- The National Headquarters are Hotel Van Curler from 9 o'clock ate chapters in leading institutions located at Washington, D. C. The until midnight. The Garnet Goblins Of higher education in the United local Chapter is gwemed by a will play. States and Canada, There are board of five officers. The finan- All Union students are invited to strong graduate groups ln more cial condition of the house is good, the dance. Ticltet.'3 QJay be procured than 110 cities, many of whcih have and with the support of active from any member of the Pyramid regular weekly luncheons and other alumni groups, Cl1l of Phi Gamma Club, at the News Bureau, or at the soda! gatherings. Besides these DPlta may look forward to many door tomorrow night. graduate groups the fraternity more yrars of sucress at Union.

... Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1934 -MANY 'XH4NKS I ~I ~.(· ~n ... lltf• ~. • Th}s morning· the Glee Club dedicated theil' THE COLLEGE WORLD AR.. OUND THE WORLD ··1•· ].1 l · 4J 4J Stein way grand piano in the. chapel. The I'-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;,;=;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=;;;;;B;;;;;y=F;;R;;;;;ED;;;;;;;;;FELD;;;. ;;;;;;=MAN-·=========.; By RICHARD SNYDER •: .----------,...------------;club and Dr. Tidm.arsh have lorrg felt that... - 1:==========;;;;;;;;;;!1 \.t1 Causa P6rsa Parol6 Assai\ Fou:NDED 1877 such a piano is necessary for the nymerous Everyone knows, of course, that ln the meanwhile, however, college freedom of speech and freedom of newspaper stalffs throug·hout the musical activities hEild in the chapel. Pre- .yre~s are two rights every .Amer• country sent i:p. protests, and tele- vio.us to this presentation it has been neces- 1can citizen possesses to the n-th grams of condenmnation flooded In a radio speech direct from Geneva, Stanley High, noted com- mentator and authority on interna- ' ~ ..... ~ .... degvee. The reason the Ame1;icali Huey Long's parlor table. But tiona! affairs, said that the year · sary to have a piano moved into the chapel nation has such evident liberties ~ac.ult;Y supervisic;m-so they ca:ll i.t; , 1934 would stand out in world peace and tuned wh.enever the Glee Club or any and prerogatives is undoubtedly· lt l.Sn t censorshlp, ?f cours~stlll. because every· maJ'or cris's has b due to the fact that the average goes on for the Lomsiana Umvers- · 1 een Sole and Exclusive National Advertising Represen- tative, National Advertising Service, Inc., H West 42nd St., N. Y. C., 400 No. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois. other organization desired to (!)ffer a program New Yorker or Philadelphi:;m or: ity newspaper. A. yard's gain in the settled peacefully. This, he stated, . . . Th' . . Chicagoan has an intelligence much struggle towards the real, free was also the opinion of the out- reqUirll1g' ItS USe. IS IS an expensiVe pro- higher than the average Parisian' A · . · mer1ca. standing statesmen of Europe. The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. : cedul'e and consequently every time the in- or Londoner or Muscovite. Oh, but he must have. Civilization is the. .... \' 1:1 strument is used a ,censide1·able saving will advance of the human race, and ad-'. In connection with academic : be effected. The purchase of the piano will vance is always towards the hal- freedom, it might be well to make One result of exceedingly pressing events in United States national, affairs: Socialists and Communists trying- to find some basis of coop- eration. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Jawed systelll of democracy and a little not, at this time, on our ' in time prove to be an economy move as wen ·equal rights of speech and p~·ess; black .books that we will carry with f · Th 'd 1 and gum-chewing; and since the us into a students' hunting grounds, as one o convemence. e 1 ea was exce - Americans are noted for their open-· -a. little notation on the decision , .lently conceived and well worth carrying out., mindedness and their willingness. the United States Supreme court .. * * Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Clas<J Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhe1·e in the United States. to let the other fellow do as he has. ground out a week or two ago in The piano will have many uses. Perhaps a right to do, by birth and ·bY God the case of the two students who Because other news has been so : we will be able to hear the Glee Club more; and by the king, the Ameri(!ans were willing to take the required imperative, many do not realize must be of greater intelligence than milit·ary training at the University that Spain has •been in the throes • oft~n in daily assembly. lt will be possible the ordinary people with IQ's of ·of California. The Verm<>nt Cynic Editorial Rooms, Silliman Halt Unio!l College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. · f. D T'd oll!ly a hundred or so. : of the University of Vermont waxed of an unsuccessful revolution. The . or r. · l·lllarsh to introduce numerous new H the average American has ac- .slightly elegant;-and all too rightly attempt to establish that which the ''arrangements into his coneerts. Progra1ns: cess to such brain power, how much so-on the subJect: constitution provides in theory- • tha:t would not be offered t(} the students be-. farther on the road to genius must \The privilege of not bearing that is, a workers' republic-has Senior Board Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief be the average college freshmen, • arms .due to conscientious objec- failed. cause of the difficulty and expense incurred and what lambent flames of Intel- tions .(the two students in this . · bt · · th • ·11 b lect our college pro£essors and: the ·case were minister's sons), which Chi Psi Lodge-~-6527 Joseph A. Woolman .......... Managing Editor • * * Kappa Nu House--4-7331 William H. Fitzgerald .•..... Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 · 111 0 auung e neceSSai'y ptano Wi · now • e governors of our states and the is enjoyed by all American citizens, After being a .puppet of the available. senators of our country must be! is not due to the constitution, it British government for seven years, Milton A. Berger ................. Sports Editor Kappa Nu House--4-7331 Thornton W. Whipple ..... Circulation Manager Chi Psi Lodge-4-6527 The Glee Club has made a very generous and a very useful move in procuring this fine Junior Board • instrument for use by college and other Vedder M. Gilbert ..•........... Feature Editor Psi Upsilon House-4·871::..0 ---~ · groups in the chapel. The clU'b is to be con- gratulated on their spirit in making this pur- ASSOCIATE EDITORS John D. Anderson Albert H. Stevenson Robert C. North VanVechten Trumbull Sophomore Board Assistant Editors . chase. We wish to cong-ratulate them for their splendid spirit and to thank them (}n behalf of the students for their action in making more musical programs pos,~lible. M. Bedell S. R. Cohen R. Doolittle F. Feldman W. Ferguson W. Horstmann F. Gage R. Passenger C. Garrison R. Snyder G. Haskell N. Stewart Issue Editor ............. Robert C. North Assistant issue Editors S. R. Cohen C. Gal'ri~on Friday, DPcember 14, 1934 KNOW YOUR fOLLEGE TIME FOR REVIEW With the approach of the close of the year the time come::; for a review of the advance:> that have been made during the days of 19;3-1. The world a:s a whole has taken a :step fot·wmd in the direction of a more sound pl'Osperity than that which existed during the days of 1926 to 1929. Confidence in the policies of the New Deal ha::; l.Jeen exhibited throughout the country. ln a recent poll a majority of college presi- dents und editors voiced the approval of contemporaries. In this connection, we have President Franklin D. Roosevelt's plans. found several items in which we believe The constitutionality of the National ln- . dustrialRecovery Act has been upheld in the Union stands out head and shoulrler ahow Colleges endeavour to stand out in some respect in ordet· to be distinct from their courts of the nation. ltg benefits to indush·,y the others. have accumulated throughout the year and Although few of the student::; realize it, the l.Jnion Plan is a product of master minds and is a step fat· in advance of other colleges of the country. Specialization in one distinct field of study for four years is the purpose of the Union Plan. Hitherto, a general edu- cation has been given for two years with specialization during the last two years. Most colleges pursue this policy but are be- ginning to sit up and take notice of the virtues of Union's experiment. No college can boast of a more traditional background than does our own Alma .Mat~r. In no small prop01tions are the fraternities responsible for the traditions which have de- veloped on the campus. the nation can feel justly proud that the man in the White House gave to his people such a concrete sj·stem for recovery. The menace of wae has l>een constant but each time that nations were expected to come to blows the breach has been repaired by mature, peaceful methods. The lesson taug-ht to the world by the debacle of 1914- 1918 has had the desired effect. The militaristic preparations of Germany have .at times caused fear among the nations of Europe-ltaly took steps to defend itself by sending- troops to the frontier. Fortun- ately the dreaded conflict never materialized. The power of Hitler was enhanced through the death of Paul von Hindenburg. Whether Hitler is leading the German nation in the Again, Union is prominent for her fratern- ities, especially the older ones who have lived. right direction remains in doubt; neverthe- less, the Nazi party has assumed its rightful through the bright and dark days of the C ll • h' t Th a1 f th f t al place in the lives of the people and is sup- a ege s IS ory. e v ue o e ra ern . · . . . system bl · t d t b D F . port€d by an ~verwhelmmg- maJOrity of the was a Y pom e ou · . Y r. ox m a votel's of the country. recent address before the NatiOnal Interfrat- Th · 1.. f \N ·t' al' \ ..-r. t ·t Co f . . e 1ssu~:: o a 1on tsm vs. .tn el.'na- erm y n erence. If Umon must have frat- t. . 1 · \l ult d · h · d 't' h . . . wna Ism 1as res·, e m a s aw repr1man erm 1es, t ey must hve up to certam stand- t w· 11 · R d 1 h H · t f tl. 11 d . o 1 1am an o p · ears · rom ·1e co: eg- ar s-these standards have been set by trad- . 1 ·ate 0 ld M H ..,,.. ...;. n·d .. · · d t \d . . . w r . r. e..;..,s~, e. eavore · o avo1 1t10n and are necessanly founded for the th · b t rth 1 h t h' If b rt f th 11 e Issue, u neve e ess as pu 1mse ene 1 0 e co ege. on the spot by sidestepping the challenge. The most significant function of the The recent developments in the state of fraternity at Union is to cooperate with the Louisiana have put that state in the spot- college in bringing- prospective students to light. The rest of the nation sympathizes the campus and assist in getting them to with the residents of Louisiana chiefly be- matriculate here. Christmas vacation is not cause of the idiosyncracies of its self-named far off and wilh two weeks at home every ·dictator, Senator Huey Long. We learn fraternity man should feel that he owes it to thereby how sanely and soberly forty-seven his college and fraternity to help round up. states of this country al'e governed. prospective material. These are just a few of the developments In order to do this successfully, students of 1934-the c.ombination of them all and must be acquainted with the advantages of their results promise an interesting 1935. here and elsewhere often enoug·h; get therq ·We are looking forward to next year to put clearly in mind and utilize them to the best the depression so far back into history that advantage of the college. th€ word itself will be entil'ely forgotten. Equity, pr<>priety, impartiality and seems, but to an act of Congr·ess. disinterestedness must be advanced .And Congress has the power to King Fuad of Egypt finally to so high a stage in our univers- withdraw this leniency any time it achieved a new constitution giving ities that freedom of speech and of :sees fit, in which case force might vital powers to the crown. This. press is unlimited. Even slang in· ·be used if necessary to persuade .was in 1930; but now, five years reference to professors of English :the objector that his views were i,.; allowed. ~wrong. It must be admitted that later, the king's efforts have been An excellent example of the type this seems more like a sixteenth- nullified. During Fuad's recent ill- of freedom of speech college presi- :century condition· than a twentieth, ness,. much court scandal has been dents and college administrations jand to bring this sort of thing be- discovered, thus giving the Acting allow their students is the dismissal ;fore the pll!blic eye was undobutedly · of the two score students at the :the boys' objective in demanding a High Commissioner a lever with City College of New York for dar-· ·trial, for they had wbsolutely no which. to force the sick king to ap- ing to voice their disapproval of .chance of winning . . . Had the point anglophile Pasha, England's pawn, as Prirr;.e Minister. * • $ Fascism. But a much <better court decided in favor of the stu- sample of the kind of freedom of .dents, as Justice Cardozo poinoted press the fair, righteous, even-· out, any conscientious objector handed administrations of some of might equally well refuse to contrib- Japan is now using a taxation free America's colleges are serving ute taxes in furtherance of war, system based on a \soak the rich\ theil· students with may ,be found w.hether for attack or defense, or · policy in a frantic attempt to sup- at the University of Louisiana, in furtherance of any other end port her largest .peace time budget. \\here 26 students were suspended condemned by his conscience as for not submitting to the admini- ineligious or immoral. stration's insistence that nothing derogatory be printed about Senator Huey P. Long. The 26 students wpre suspended pending their apology, and with the admonition that failure to reclaim would result in expulsion. Twenty- two of the twenty-six apologised the next day, and were reiilJ3tated. \The few practical arguments that were presented for the stu- dents were oratorically dismissed. When the suggestion was made that compulsory military education is repugnant to the Briand-Ke!logg peace pact, the United States supreme court raised its nose high in the air and poohed. 'Clearly there is no conflict between the • * • regents' order and the provisions Notes On Our or the treaty: Chinese Minister Sze, in a fiery address over the radio in Philadel- phia, pointed out that China was no longer the chaotic wilderneo;s that Ea!:lterners are inclined to con- sider her. He traced governmental recovery politices which beat a striking resemblance to tho.se em· played in America. China now has an Economic Council designed to guide industrial, financial, and agri- cultural rehabilitation. Contempor~ries \The University of California won the decision; the students • • • LADIES FOR A DAY gained their desired publicity; who Canada has come to a unique won the case?\ stage in the development of her The first \lacHes day\ at a foot- constitution. It would appear ru; ball game w~ recently held at [I II U.ough the people cannot decide Xavier l:niversity \Cincinnati, Ohio) . The Grab Bag whether they want a unitary or Won1en guests of the university federal government. The French paid only the ~tate and federal •'-============;;;;;;;:J element want a federal form of taxes to gain admission to the - rule, and the opposing faction want Xavicr-:.Iarysville game. . .. There Is something about the a strong central government. • • * ENGI.ISH HUMOR ··The funniest thing that we have \\'en in the United States was a col- l~ge newspaper reporter at Emory College,\ says John Gripps, a mem- ber of the Ox.ford University debat- ing team now touring the United States. * • * STRICTLY NATIVE Every co~ty in the state of South Carolina is represented .among the 1,391 students enrolled at the University of South Carolina. word \Neutral\ that makes us tnink of lukewarm water. The old I I term \Barbarian\ was far superior, I PUNCTILIO I for it did have possi-bilities. Posters . advertising a \Neutral Dance\ leave '';============;;;;.:J us cold, but a \Barbarian Dance\-- - well. A dollar ten would be cheap. * * • ... After heat•ing the c<>mplicated formula that must be followed if a student wishes to occupy his dormitory room during Christmas recess, we can only offer one bit of advice. Even if you live in Alaska -go home, young man, go home. * .. * Only 100 of those registered are . . . Ring the bell once for that fmm out of the state. combination in restraint of trade, The masks were hung out last week by both the Civic Players and the Mountebanks. The civic group put on the much produced Double Door in which Mary Morris starred on Broadway and in the movies. Of course the Mountebanks took the shanty boat trailer and played a one night stand in Albany. Watching the audience is a great pastime especially if one has seen the show a dozen times. I saw people asleep for •both shows. The young lady at Albany was very am!.l$ing. .Aii! the ·appla\l!Oe startect on the last curtain she woke up and with a dazed expression began to applaud, gazing the while in mild 'bewilderment at the bowing actors. • * * FORGOTTEN MAN A poll of the class of 1919 of the New York University school of commerce, accounts and finance, revealed that the average member voted for Ho~JVer in 1928 and 1932, but that they will vote for Roose- \ elt in 1936. .. * • CO-OPERATION University of Arkansas co-eds live on $10 a month at the 4-E cooperalive house established on that campus. * • * OR FOR IilNDLING The Budapest University has pur- chased an oak tree that is thought to be 1,500 years old. It weighs 20 tons and will be used for experi- mental purposes. • • * RETURN TO NATURE There are now more C. C. C. camps in the United States than t!lere ;ue colleges and universities. 'The former number 1,641, and the latter 1,166. • • • THE COLLEGE SPIRIT Last year 30,757 .students bor- rowed $3,418,000 from loan funds maintained in 531 colleges and uni- \·l'lrsities. This year approximately 33,000 students will receive some' .$6,000,()00 in scholarships, while a. S!Jl!lller group will receive nearly a miliion in graduate fellowsi:ijps, Hughes & Haskell. Being dlenied the privilege of pooling their ad- getting efforts in the competition for next year's Garnet Board, they have conferred and decided that only one will compete. Ah, yes. But you know who I'm betting on. * • • . . My hat is off to Punctilio. While the rest of the College goes around with a bad case of the sniffles, he notices that every build- ing has a different smell. * • * * • • Personal: The dean of Yale Col- lege has a .liking for strong cheese. In fa.ct when there is any of his brand about it cannot be put in the refrigerator. No, he keeps it on the window sill. There is a man. * • * That piece of personal malice · · · I pass this on to you for what which appeared last Thursday on it may .be worth. Some bright per- the bulletin board was as detestable son, knowing that cream is just a thing as any I have ever seen. milk with a lot of butterfat, has The culprit is a low berust, no more. perfected a device which sells for . The blatant injustice of the affair a couple of dollars. In it you pour t a quart of milk, add a small chunk was in ensified by using the name of butter, turn the crank. Whoopee·! of the Sophomore Discipline Com- Out comes cream. All I need now tnittee as a cover. Such a sneaking deed deserves punishment and i3 something to convert water into censure. Regarding the truth of gasoline. the attack Jet me say that the city * .. .. . . . More effective than the bul- letin board would be a classified section in the Concordy. Here all and sundry, for a nominal fee, could command the· attention and lighten the pocketbooks of the in- telligentsia on the hill. And it v,rould probably be better reading than most of these columns. • * • . . . So I leave you, but not with- out a ray of hope, in the New Deal editor of the paper in which the article appeared stated that lhe feature was picked up by a reporter and was not a piece of self publicity as was charged. . . .. Here is something which the Sophomore Discipline Committee might ·better punish than poot frosh who have forgotten their caps and always sing out of tune anyway . • • * manner. Warm weather is just. A cheer for the string quartel around the corner. · because they put over a good job GeeBee. in a difficult medium. J. B. D. -· -- Co: ~ .S< at V\'e< quir mor Alu Nit< line opel Dov Var Mol L bur, plOJ cen pivc Lee tiCOI aga bea fasl hig run Ma sho 1: WOI chi Co~ sar pra wh in tl'a me fiv· 4Ui Ttl slH ag stz en ~Vw o-ll fo. n., ~·h to j>!' ur t r nE ··~ fa n.c (Jf rr tr I< p \1 s t

·rom ~om­ rna- year eace oeen tted, out- sing onal 1ists oop- n so alize roes The the ry- -has the aars, 1ally ving This ears been t ill- been ~ting with ~ ap- md's Ltion ~ich' 1 sup- iget. fiery 3.del- was ne~s con- mlal .1 a em- has d to ~gri- ltque her r ru; ~ctde y or ench n of want J last and roup mble erred ovies. took ayed Jany. ;reat seen saw The very Hted e up egan e in wing Col- ees e. f his 1 the t on an. 'alice y on table seen. nore. effair 1atne Com- eking and h of • city ' the lhe ot-ter licity the tit tee poot their tune artel l job B. D. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1934 Three Quintet Seeks: Victory Over·11 .. Intramural Basketball lVIiddlebury Here TQ;nt9ffQW: !=l· ~;;;:;;;;;;;Lea;::;;:;;::::;gu=es ~;;;;;;:;;;;,., Coach von Forstmeyer Selects Nine Fencers to Compose Tentative Team Institute of Technology, Cummock School and Marlbmough Scbool. The popularity of fencing is in- creasing rapidly in Southe~n Cal- ifornia. A great deal of this is due to the fact that it has become one of the minor sports at colleges in this state and the new members of this division, for the most part, are recruited from among the ranks of incoming freshmen at the Uni- versities. Pili Delta Theta (SO) G Coach Ni~chman to Start Garnet Five Bows to aa:\me ----------·--·--. 4 Same F1ve That Opened · . . \ F?wler ................ o Against Clarkson Tech Clarkson, 3.c. to 26, ~:~r;~~~ ·:::::::::::: : g Eurton ................ 2 Seeking to make up for the defeat at the hands of Clarkson T.ech, Wednesday night the varsity quintet w1ll meet Middlebury to- morrow night at 8 o'clock in the Alumni gymnasium. Coach Nels Nitchman plans to start the same lineup that took the floor in the openhlg game-Qapta.in Ray Mc- Dowell and Joe Milano, forwards, Van Vvaldron, center, and Jack Moffet and Ralph Semerad, guards. Little is known about the Middle- bury five, except that the team em~ ploys a fast-breaking offense, centering around Clonan in the pivot position, and a set defense. Leete, the star Panther forward, ~cored twelve points last year against Union, although the Garnet beat Middlebury, 35 to :n. He is fast, shifty, and like Clonan, the high-jumping center, shoots on the run. Davis plays back guard, Martin and Hoehn are good on set shots. Yesterday the Garnet had a light workout, the time being devoted chiefly to practice of foul shots. Coach Nitchman has found It neces- sary to refrain from intensive practice because of the schedule which is demanding three games in a week's time from a ten-man tl'am. Wednesday night the Dutch- men will be host to the Wesleyan five, the first of the Little Three 4.uintets which beat Union last year. ---0,--- ' , • ' Muir .......•...... - . . . 0 :(i'l!)wer, Gmqt Center, Leads Davis ................. 1 Visitors to Victory in Rough! Myers · · · · · · - · ·-·------ - 2 Van Wert ............. 4 , And Ready En,counter RY?J.asko . . . • . . . . . • • . . . 1 \Wiley ............. _ . . . 0 \'t h ldl '- f Cl k Total ··-·········-··· 14 = er o ng t .... e power ul ar - • son- Tech five o:a eveh tevms for _SigpJa Chi (13 G ha~f the gam~, the 'fr.qi_on basket~all, ~~h~o~~k· ':::::::::::: ~ team found itseH 11naJile in the McGee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 second half to cl;J.eck _the at:tivities Myei- · · · · • · · · · · . · · · •.. · 1 of the giant Captain Cliff Flowers :Kling · · · - · · · · - · · · · · · · · 0 :Rheinhardt ............ 0 underneath th;e basket and lost the Engesser ... , .. , . . . . . . . o opening encounter of the season to Endicott ............... 0 the- Tech outfit, 32 .to 26, in the Total · · · · · . · •. · · · .... 6 Alumni Gym, Wednesday_ night. • * * It was a rough-and-read£ 'match , JMpha Phi Delta ct4) G with three Union regul~rs, Me- ' Marra ............. _ ... 2 Doweli, Moffett, and Waidron, Te- 1!-1atarazzo , .... , . , ..... 0 riwved from the game because of :Fiore ...... - . . . . . . . . . . . 1 fOUr personal fouls. . D~Francisco ..... , . . . . . 1 Marotta .. , . , .. , . . . . . . . 3 Ga.rnet Leads At First Cammoratta , .... , . . . • . 0 Captain Ray McDowell tallied the first Garnet basket on a dribble-in shot in the opening seconds of play. Union took an early lead on baskets by Jack Moffett, Joe Milano, and Ralph Semerad. Flowers and ex- captain Phil Ryan, the dynamic red-headed guard, kept the visitors in the running. Waldron in· his attempts to stop the twisting jump- shot of Flowers, incurred three fouls •before the period was half over. :Martini . _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Total ... , .... , . , . . . . . 7 City Neutrals (19) G :Mirate ..... , .......... 0 Poclbielslti .. , . . . . . . . . . . 2 Nagrn;zewslti . . . . . . . . . . 2 Lambeth .......• , . . • . . 0 Priznar . .. .. .. . . .. . . • . 2 LeTarte .....•..... , . . . 2 Total ..... , . , . . . . . . • . 8 F 2 (} 0 0 (} 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 F 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 'Talks of Fencing in American T Colleges; Garnet Season t() 10 o Open After Christmas o· ~ The Union intercollegiate-intra- 0. mural fencing team, so named be- 2 cause of the character of the oppos- ~ ing teams played, will open its 2 schedule of five meets on January 0 1!:1 as guests of the Williams swordS'-- 30 men. The rest of the schedule can- T sists of meets against Hamtlt<ln 8 here on February 2; Williams, here ~ on February 9; Colgate, away, <ln 2 February 16; and Colgate, here on o March 2. 0 Mr. Kurt von Forstmeyer, coach 1 of fencing, has selected a tentative 0 team consisting of Bert Morrison, 13 Frank Champ, Bob Slobod, Jerry Cohen, and Walt Bose, foils; Bert Morrison, Fred Feldman and Jerry T Cohen, epee; and Bert Mor:vison 4 and Stue Rogers, sabres. The sub- 0 stitutes are Dick Passenger, Henry 2 Hudson and Ed Sheldon. 2 Fencing In U.s. 6 0 0 14 T 1 4 4 0 6 4 19 Recently Mr. von Forstmeyer volunteered the folowing informa.- bon about fencing in American col- leges: \During the past twenty-five years fencing has suffered many eclipses. Throughout the war and for sometime after it, fencing was not only unpopular, but it was practically impossible to obtam equipment. Almost everybody was surfeited with combat and com- Tankmen Improve In Late Time Trials Langelier, Clarkson substitute for Ames at right forward, scored two rapid baskets, and, together with two-pointers •by Siedlecki, and Gaff- ney, put the Dwyermen in the lead. Shortly before the period ended Milano knotted the score at foul- teen-all. PINE GROVE DAIRY To Open Season Against Great Colg·ate Squad Soon After Ch1·istmas !Recess \Vtlh thf'il' fi1 ~t mf'et coming sh01tly after Christmas tecess agam;;t Colgate, probably the :<trunge:;t oppo:;tlwn the Garnet will L'llcountei th1s ~ ea1, the varsity sw1mmrug \'luau ha• been holding <-trenuous workout,; in piepaJation fot the c-oinin~ season The tank- n.en h.t ve been practicing starts, -\hOI t sprints, and turns in addition to tbe1r 1 egula1 twelve or more laps pet Ll<ty and ate gradually building up speed and stamina. Altiwugh the results of the time trials held Saturday and Wed- nesday v-.ere poor, this was to be <'Xpec•tcd so E'arly in the ~cason be- fore the men have had a chanc-e to accustom themsE'lV<'~ to the length <•! the pool and to develop a steady par~. After about two weeks of trammg the squad ha-'l rounded it- •elf out pretty well. Since Hotal- Ing, a promtsing dash man, is m- lhgtble, the 50 and 100 yard events Flowers Breaks LoDse Flowers opened the scoring in the second half, but two successful flee throws by McDowell put the Dutchmen on an equal basis for the last time. Flowers' nine points, scored mostly on hook-shots while underneath the ba:oket, proved too much for the Garnet qumtet. The f1 antic attempts to stop him led only to more fouls and the elimina- tion of th1ee of Union's starting players. On the short end of a 22 to 26 3Core with about four minutes to play, the home five resorted to lung- shots. :Milano and Bill Bran- dow chalkf'd up a couple, but they were matched point for point by Flowers and Blackely. OIJTING CLUB NOTICE The Outing Club will meet at 8:45 Sunday in Middle Section, South College for a morning hike along the Plotter Kill. \i 11 be carried on the capable 1 ~;;;;;;;;~~~~~~~;:;~~~;;;;~ shoulders of Captam Gnswold and li Mal Griffing. Bill Keens has been <'oing- hltl usual fine work in diving and together with Emerson will Ir. the backstroke Ed Moulton has been showing up well and Knox: has been improving steadily. John J\rgersinger still stands out in the breaststroke, -but Van \Vert is im- tJroving rapidly and is a close second in the event, while Gage has been perfeclmg hi:> form also. Stearns, Faelton, Poggenpohl, and Kennedy have put in some good performances in the distances, and with a few more weeks of train!ng should make some fine show~g thts season. DUKE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE DURHAM, N. C. Four terms of eleven weeks are given each year. These may be taken consecutively (gra~luatlon in three years) or thrco terms may be talren each year (grad- uation In four years). The en- trance requirements are inteUi- gence, character and at least two years of college work, in- cluding the subjects specified for Grade A Medical Schools.. Catalogues and application forms may be obtained from the Dea.». HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 10 N.Y. C. Arcade Be Good to Yourself Ge·~ a Soda. Sundae or a Freeze at: BRANDHORST PHARMACY .. On the Corner .. Union St. and ~illespie Wm. H. BrRlldh<lrst, Reg. Ph!U·. \Leland Brandhorst, Reg. Pba.r. Milk Cream Butter Eggs Cloverland Creamery Phone 2-4265 Ice Cream Cottage Cheese 118 5. FERRY STREET Schenectady, N.Y. bative sports. It took fencing many years to overcome this lethargy, and that it has completely recovered from it speaks well for its recuper- ative powers and its lasting attrac- tion for genuine lovers of the sport. \The flame of its early enthus- iasm was kept smoldering by de- votees of fencing all over the world and ·it is through their enthusiasm and unselfish interest that it has shared notably in the Olympic meets and that its popularity is now spreading rapidly thx·oughout the country, so that schools and colleges are eagerly responding to its call. Many College Teams \In the United States fencers re- present a good number of organiza- tions, the largest membership being that from the Los Angeles Athletic Club. To this division belong the following schools: University of Southern California, University of California at Los Angeles, California Interest 1n East \Here in the East the most out- standing fencing teams are to be found at Yale, Harvard, Princeton, Columbia, N. Y. U., Boston College, West Point, Colgate, Cornell and Hamilton. In many other colleges fencing Is an intramural activity, barring intercollegiate team compe- titions, os else is a subject to be elected by a student as part of the regular college curriculum. \For many years fencing was de- cidedly an Old,-World accomplish- ment. Now, however, it is dif- ferent. America has added fencing to its long list of sports and has developed many men and women who fence as well as European rivals. By Popular Request on Sunday Nite MURRY OFFERS 4-Course Turkey Dinner &Oc. SMALL TURKEY PLATE 35c Steaks and Chops Always on Hand Make This Your Eating Place for Sunday Night Amid Pleasant Surroundings MURRY'S NEXT TO THE SCHOOL In the manufacture of Granger Rough Cut Pipe Tobacco the W ellrnan Process is used. The Wellman Process is dif- ferent from any other process or method and we believe it gives more enjoyment to pipe smokers. . .. it gives the tobacco a12 ex- tra flavor and aroma ... it makes the tobacco act right bz a pipe-burn slower and smoke cooler . .. it makes the tobacco milder ... it leaves a clemz dry ash -no soggy residue or heel in the pipe bowl LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.

Four Glee ·Club to Sing In Plaza Theater Other Concerts Will Be Held During Vv.inter in Schools Througltout New York State The Glee Club will make its fourth public .appeamnce of the season at the Plaza theatre l'.londuy evening in conjunction with the regultu· show. After· Chrbtmus the C'lub will beg- in an extensive pt·o- gram which include::; 'everal out-of- town trips. A concert is -planned for thL• 17th of January in 4\ntslc>rdam under the auspice<> of che :)~·ru.IH.l Presbyterian Church. .tc\ IH\ugntm uf :;acted music will be teatw.ed. There is also a tenutiVL' plall to pt esent a concert in Al.:bauy f11r the Tt inity Church somL•loJ£t;e 111 J<'ebtuaty. For both tnps U 1e full dub ol fifty membet\ '-'ill ue taken tug ether with the :>tnng quattet. Arrangement; at·~ undPI\ fot· a showiug at tbe Deer field academy, Deerfield, nta.ss. a:; WPll as a trtp to Cobleskill to give a concert for the Cobleskill Alumni A.,;soC'iation. A tlip is scl:-wduled for the wPek- end of Janua.rv 31 to \\'at<>rtown. Potsdam a ncl ·Oswego with pos- sible noon con rt'r-is nt Cat·thage nnd Lowville Hi~h Schools. Dul\ing the V~eek-entl of :-..r.,.tdt I the• ,ongtiters plan to apjll'Cll !11 Oneonta. Bing- hamton. \\~a' et lv unJ Elmira. There will -be -cun~t•t ts in Bingham- ton Friday ni~ht and one in Elmira SwtUt·day n i~l~ t. Fr·it!ny aftE\rnoon the club will a ppt.•hr in Ont•onta and in Wuveriy Sntnttlay noon or aft- ernoon. The usual t~·ip to :\ew Ymk will take place :sutHeti me in !\larch under the allspices of the New York Alumui ,\t;sodati on. V\'it,h this tt ip tl:ere is a po.sotbility of additional appearance.;; in Hidgewood, N. J.; Scarsdale. N. Y; White Plains and Stamford, Conn On the tine<· trips the string <lUUtl<.>t, Ga.met Goblins and about 40 nu•·mbers of the club will be taken. Belli11g er Paint Co. ARTHUR TRIGG. Prop. Paints, Oils, \\\arn.ishes, Glass Brushes and Wall Paper 12€ BROADWAY FINEST F()ODS ALWAYS DANCIN'G SATURDAY and StJNDAY irom 1() until closing No Cover - No Minimum PELOP'S RESTAURANT 438 State St. OppvJay St. Remember Yourself and y<>ur friends for XMAS HABERDASHERY Mirtham's Men's Shop has apfY1\0priate gifts far men. \The quadity ranks with the besi\.\ 17!! .}.'\ y TF.L. 4·2544 lhe GarnetT ail or has been ~a~roni~ed for yeat'S by UNIO~ STUDENTS WHY? Workmanship Unexcelled Prices Reasonable Work cczll ed for and cleJivEred. 605 Liberty- St. Tel. 4·0122 .. , Mountebanks Prepare For Productions in S c h oo 1 s tContinued from P;3.ge 1) WGY by the Mountebanks. This work will be canied out by George W. Stroebel, Jr., '35, president of the M:ounteba:nlcs, under the supervision of Director Edward ·L. Carroll. The time of the broadcasts will be the second Tuesday of each month at 11 p. m. and will last from fifteen to 'l,HE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14,1934 B 0 S ·t 0 n .·Sympho: ny. transformation of the symphonic form which left it agasp. To Play \E·. .r 0 1,·. c a· '\. Early commentators on the work :1: expressed their opinion13 in the ·harshest of terms, one of then con- The Program I l\\t;\rture, \The :.\larrlage nt\ I•'i· ga~ro'' ...................... l\1ozn.rt !:';•mphony :o-;o. 3. '\!~roil-a\ .•..•• . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . Beethoven Pieture~ at an Ex·hibition ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Moussorgskr-Ravel thirty minutes. The Mountebanks Beethoven's \Eroica\ Symphony, pla-n to adapt sh01·t stories or full one of the boldest and most conse- length plays for this series. ·quential forward strides in the The MountE>banks approved loan- history of art, is the major work to ing the theater to the Faculty Worn- be played tomorl'OW evening by the en·s Club for a faculty revue to be Boston Symphony Orchestra. The .;taged Janua-ry 31, February 1 and 2, concert, the second in the Civic demning the score as \odd and harsh\ and professing a preference for a work in the same key by the now forgotten Eberl. Another writer appraised the new symphony as \virtually a daring wild fantasia, of inordinate length and extreme :difficulty of execution.\ Although' he admitted there were .passages of beauty and force, the work as a whole he felt to be utterly incom- prehensible. ---0--- INSTALLMENT TUITION for the benefit of the Student Loan ·Music Association series, will be The final payment of Tuition is Fund. The review is being directed given at 8:30 o'clock at the Mont due tomorow. Due to the fact that by .Y.lrs. Harrison C. Coffin. Pleasant High School. this is just a half-day, an extensiou For· next year the Mountebanks Of Dr. Koussevitzky's reading of is being granted on all payments have decided to open the season this symphony at the orchestra's h> Monday. It is requested that all with \Uncle Tom's Cabin,\ and for fitst Carnegie Hall concert this payments be made promptly and the Spring, 1986, they are consider- season, w. J. Henderson wrote, any payment made after Monday ing Shaw'::; \St. Joan.\ \This town has not heard such a will be subject to the usual fine for ThE>re is a possibility that thE' pet formance of the 'Eroica\ in laele payment. Mountebanks may ask the Dean to years.\ Similarly, on the occasion The Comptroller's office will be zr.ove the Spring production ahead of the symphony's premiere in open 8:30-12;00 tomot,row and 8:30- on the calendar from March to Feb- 1804, musical Europe listened to a 11:30; 1:00-4:30, Monday. ruary: this will allow more time to-;;;:;:===========================~ be spent on the May production. r: The Mountebanks are also busy making ready for the February 16 production of John Howard Payne's \Clari or the Maid of Milan\ which the Laboratory Theater of Columbia University will present on the cam- pus. .A matinee and an evening per- formance i\ scheduled for these well known players of New York. THE ACME BARBER SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS A PLEASURE 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS VISIT THE ENLARGED TAP ROOM GOLo•s SCHENECTADY'S POPULAR RENDEZVOUS Gazette Press \Vrzit a minute .... heres what she smohes ENGINEERS TO MEET An organization meeting ·of the . Union •bmnch of the American In- stitute of Electrical Engineers will be held tonight in the Electrical Engineering building at 8:00 o'clock. . .All electrical engineers who are in- · terested are urged to attend. · CHARLES' F~~?~ 1 Y The Official Union College Barber . tor the past 2• years. Ask any upper· cla.esmen, they know. 11 · JEWELRY-WATCHES Schenectady Watch Hospital EXPERT WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING All Work Done on Premises at HECKMAN'S JEWELRY SToRE lOS State St., Sc.beaootady, N. Y. operators. Schenectady'a greatest . · '\\=============== barber. - COR. STATE AND BROADWAY Support Our Advertisers Make Your First New York Call At Arthur Murray•s Harry in to brush up on your dancing-rates still low, Don't forget . . . as soon as you get to town, get in touch with Arthur Murvay to arrange for a few inexpensive dance lessons. Then you'll be all set for the holid>:J.ys, with an interesting ·repertoire of the ti!martest steps-your dancing smooth and faultless. Partners are sure to murmur, \You dance di- vinely!\ But you must be suee to make your reservations early so you won't \get left.\ There may not be enough teachers at Arthur Murrey's to ac- commodate the big holiday rush. SPECIAL NOTE: Rates are still ('oforta.bly ({)W! ARTHUR MURRAY 7 EAST 43 rd. STR~ET :;::j 'l ·f .I :I l L Vc = Cl A A 12 to· th sit re in m or tu t:l:i T: :6', c: D tl h: 'C< · st f< Cl p: it 0 il c t! ·:p p il ] t: 'l c 0 i: :r

IllS :h R.Y 1lses N.Y. isers rst At I ys rz your low, as you h with > for a 1s. Then . olid>:J.ys, oire of iancing ters are nee di- ) make u won't enough 1 to ac- f rush. re still tEET v. Professors 'To Attend IS (\\ i I 1200 Attend Sunday Night Singing Vol LVIII., No. 25 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1934 PRiCE FIVE cENTS Christmas Service: Dr. Wold Diseusses.Ra~io .Parishoners Of Sears Are First Ta Attracts Stud en ts• T~~~Pffo~e ~~r~~~~eo~t~&~. Sing Now Famous Christmas Carol · : Physic~> Ilepar>tment Will be the . · . · . · Fox Plea~ed With Spirit Union Prof.e s sors Of Alumm on Recent Tour T Add . . 8 . Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox. retumed to • 0 ress Cience And ·Towns p e 0 p le spealter at the meetin!Ji of the R~dio · ·· . · · . : ·Clu:b to be held tomght at eight By VEDDEB M. GILBERT his desk: yesterday mornin~ after a' Group at PI•ttsb· u· ·rg short tnp to New York C1ty, New · ' .Jersey and Philadelphia which in·. o'clock .tn the Electrical Engineer. 1200 ·p · · A. tt d I • • : ing Building. His topic will ibe · ersons. · en DSpJnng· \;Developments in Radio~Telep·hone Choral Services Under Dr. Co~mt,urication.\ Dr: Wold is ad- T . I'd·marsh's ·D• I'r:e· ct·I'o· n mirably equipped to speak on this topic, since during recent year::; he . has been connected with the A.Iher- Amplifier_s Installed . ic~n Telephone .and: Telegr~ph Co. ; of New York throughout the sum· mer vacations. The talk is to be of a sufficiently ·general nature so Installed m: it will be of great interest to both In December 1849 Edmund Ham- prominent figure in his class l>y eluded speaking engagements be- nton Sears, '34, sent out word to: veas<?n of his resolute character, 1;\i::, fore two alumni groups and two. all his .parishoners that he had' schola:.JJShip, and the readiness with high schools. \I was plea:sed to note, written a new Christmas hymn for which he composed in both verse the intense enthusiasm .shown by the Sunday School. Sears was anx-· and prose. our a;lumni in regards to Union ious to have his people try out the• With what little help his father, College as a center of learning,\ hymn, It came Upon A Midnight: a landholder and a thrifty farmer, was Dr. Fox's comment in an inter- Clear, on Christmas Eve at !liS< and one of his brothers could give· view with a Concordiensis reporter home. him, by hard work and rigid econ- this morning. \They came in their sleighs,. amy Edn;tu~d w~ rewarded .by On his short trip the president Loud Speakers Silliman Hall academic and technical students . bringing also on a horse-drawn sled• membership m Pht Beta Kappa, a':d :;;poke l:>efore a large gathering of the only spinet in town, with which' he compl~ted the college course. m New York City a!UIIU!i at the Hotel , 0 ,____ the singing was accompanied,\ 1&34. Thirty-seven ~eals later, f~ve Astor and another large group of Chemist and Four Physicists .. To Read 'Papers to Society Of Advancement of Science Biologist Present Dr. Ernest Dale Also to Be Present at Meeting F • tS • reads an account in last years• De- years before Sear::; death, Umon alumni at Philadelphia. He also aSCIS uppresston cember 24 issue of Tile Boston Her- conferred the degree of Doctor of spoke before the Ridgewood and More than 1200 students and · · · · ald. The report continues: \The Divinity upon J;tim. West Orange high schools in New Dr. Thomas A. Wilson, Professor townspeopl': jamme(l .their W:'lY into. Eaeet•s Uni·versi·t~es hymn was set to a familiar air Following hiS gra~uation from Jerse>'· . of Chemistry, has been asked to the Memonal Chapel la:st mght to 11 . · •.1. (Richard Storrs Willis' \Carol\) and college Edmund stud1ed law for a The week before last Dr. Fox read a paper before the meeting of sing' Christmas carol:s under the di·' soon learned. The people were en- time! taught_ school for awhile, an~ . took an extended trip of the :same the American Physical Society, held rection of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh thusiastic and the glorious words of studied mimstry under Rev. Add!· nature through New England. Dur- in conjunction with the physics sec- in the greatest expression of Christ- Hist()l'Y and Natural Sciences It Carne Upon A Midnight Clear s~n Bro~ of Brattleboro, Vermont. irig the second week in January the tion of the American .As:sociation mas spir>it that has been exhibited' Coerced in State Schools rang out over the winter snow with Fmally, m 1837 Se::r~ _graduate, president is scheduled to speak to for the Advancement of Science at on the campus during almost a cen- magnificent effect.\ from the Harvard DIVmlty School J:lumni g 1 ·oups in Buffalo, Cleve- the University of Pittsburgh on tury and a half of her exi:stence. At By Fascism J t b · tl bl. t• 1 Rev. Sears spent a singular!• 1 and, Dec1ott and Chicago and in- December 27 to 29th, and will :speak th 1 · · f th · · D us, etore le .Pu_ tca IOn °. peaceful and uneventful li'fe. Fo·I D b 29 D W'l '11 . · e cone us1on ·o e s1ngmg r. S f t t 1 cemis to 1 nclude as many high and on ecem er . r. 1 son WI T 'd h 11 d D D\ R · ears 13.mous ·na.IVl Y caro tn twelve years he was assoc1\ated WI.th k th b' t \Th C t 1 1 mars ca e on r. 1xon yan Th cru· ti R t th h preparatory schools as ·possible in spea on • · e su Jec , e rys a F . t · h · \M Fa ·s o D\ t t \' · n e AS an e.glS er ·. e ymn Rev. Rufus Ellt's 1·n· ed1't1\ng The ..,.~ St t f B t M '' . ox o WIS every~Jne a erry · sc1 rn r IC a orsu..~p In a y d f t t ... ....,.. his itinerary. rue ure o e a- anganese. Christmas\ on behalf ·of the college. fashion is to be condemned as anti- was. rea rom ~anuscnp a ,a ligious Magazine. Later he married Dr. Fox expressed the wishes o± intellectual and· anti-Democratic ac- Christmas celeb_rahon: of Dr. Lunt 6 Ellen Bacon of Barnstable and had Physicists Read Papers the season to the multitude on be· .. cording to Mr. Howard Smyth in Sunday School m Qumcy. four children: three sons and a EXCI•tedneSS }S the Four members of the Physics de- half of those connected with the his discussion of Dictatorship as an The author of the season's most daughter. partment are also scheduled to read college at present, tho.se who have anti-intellectual movement in daily beloved song, of Calm On The Lis· The best part of Edmund's• life, ·Curse of Amateurs papers. Dr. Peter I. Wold, will read studied between her gray old walls assembly this morning. tening Ear of Night (1834), which however, wa:s devoted to the church. one on \Equation of Waves in for the past 140 years and those Mr. Smyth stated that many peo- Oliver Wendell Holmes calls, For many years he was pastor of Media with Velocity Varying with countless ones who, yet unborn, will ple decry the lack of adventure and \··.one of the most beautiful the Unitarian parishes at Wayland Cart•oll Says. Drama Is Art Time.\ This subject relates to cer· pass through Union's portals. real trial ili the world in which we Christmas hymns ever written,\ en· and Weston, Masschusetts. A d I T B D H 'I tain theories which Dr. Wold had Amplifiers rnstalled now live. Yet there is no such lack. tered the sophomore class at Union When the author of It Came n S 0 e one applY been proposing and studying in To add to the color of the fastiv· The vvorld today is facing a crisis College in 1831 at the age of twenty- UpQn A Midnight Clear died at the In Lecture Yesterday. connection with the so~alled \ex- brought on by two main factors. two. Sears pursued his studies age of sixty-six. he left behind him panding universe.\ The question as ities three amplifiers were installed The disappearance of unoccupied until the late hours of every ·night many books aJ1d hymns, which he \The curse of the little theatre to whether the univers!l is indeed on Silliman HaU so that the sing- land, and the problems brought on throughout his college career. The had written, including an \Ode\ is the tendency of amateurs to get expanding, as is urged by some ing could be heard all over the by the Industrial Revolution. records show that the hymnologist, that he had penned fol\ his Alma excited, tense, cross; drama is an scientists, is a moot question. Dr. campus and for quite an area Fascism is one type of endeavor while at college, soo11 became a Mater. art, and is to be done happily\ Wold is disposed to hold the view through lower Schenectady. Many to solve the difficulty. But fascism, declared Director Edward L. Car- that the experimental observations :pQ.pular C!!-rols were sung ,by the with its suppression of Free Speech, roll, of the Mountebanlts Theatre do not necessarily require such an r:go~~;i;;~~ :Jlgi~~ •• !~:Oc~~:~ ~~ 1 ~~ suppression of organized .oppnsition Pituitary Gland Is Union to Encounter fat Urup'onfCollegeB,, inMa lectu_re be- interpretation. Faithful,\ \The First Noel,\ , 0 Lit- to the .party in power, coupled with ore ro essor · · Wamger's Dr. Frank Studer's paper will be complete suppression of the people Multi• functi•o nary w·Ili D b t cla:ss in modern drama yesterday .. on \The Hall Effect in Sodium, tie Town Of Bethlehem,\ and \.Toy to the welfare of the State is objec- . .. ' . I ams- e a e r s Mr. Carroll who i:s a member of Potassium and Ceasium.\ This is To The· World.\ Dr. Tidmar:sh tiona.ble. the faculty in the department of a report on work done by Dr. called upon the choir to give two Fa;scism goes further and even S S • l Fu t' English literature and has been an Studer and Mr. Williams, who took of the numbers in its repetoire dur- ehters the State Universities. Here even pecta. nc Ions at Debaters to Examine Fedenll executive director in the Civic Play- ws master's degree in physics here ing the evening. They were \Sing it has suppre:ssed all of the social Least Are Pet·fm•med by ers, Schenectady's famous little last June. The work connects up Noel,\ in which H. William Smith, sciences, history. and natural sci- The Pt'tut'+n·•y G'-nd Control of Public Educa- theatre founded in 1928, spoke with studies being carried on in the ' 33 sang a ·solo and \Tres Magi de ences in so far as their value for wu. li:1 tion Standards chiefly on the principles involved physics department on the problem Gentlbus\ in which Frederick Alex- finding truth is concerned. Instead in the presentation of a. play be- of conduction of electricity through ander, '38 sang the solo part. they have been turned into a source Speaking before the Union Col- fore an audience. Declaring that metals. The event was opened with a pro- for propaganda. The unlversitle:s lege chapter of Sia-ma Xi Thursday At the regu1ar meeting of the Arthur Hopkins, New York's well Tt..-•~h , p C Ssl ·on by the college chot\r and h 1 b t d · t - Ph\l h known producer has best reduced • ...,.., er 8 aper e ave a so een urne m o a mean:s night on \The Psychology of the 1 omat ean Society last night in members of the choirs of several of teaching dogma. Pituitary Gland,\ Dr. ·Samuel ·L. the student Activities office, an these :principles for practical appli- Dr. Everett Thatcher will read a churches in the city, :singing \0 Mr. Smyth stated that Fascism Leonard, Assistant Proressor of Bi- open discussion was held on the cation, he ~aid: \The effect of an paper on \Multiple Space Charge in Come All Ye Faithful.\ At t~e con- presents a challenge to the historic ology and one of the foremost endo- topic for the next var:sity de)>ate. acted play upon an audience mu:st Double and Triple GJ\id Tubes.\ elusion of the singing the choir re-- American ideals and ideas, as well crinologists in the country, :stated Professor Chillrud of the Psych- be unconscious. A complete illusion This i:s a de:scription and expla- mained in the chapel and sang sev- as to a. liberal education. A liberal that the pituitary coordinates the ology Department led the forum in can be created only upon the un- nation of certain phenomena in eral numbers that were audible to edu~ation is a privilege which few body ehemically, through its several which the team members particip- conscious mind, Therefore drama vacuum tubes which have been the departing guests through the students pay for entirely. They owe different functions, and is therefore ated, and his points and suggestions Should deal, not with emotion aris- observed by Dr. Thatcher and to amplifiers installed on Silliman an C>bligation to society. It is their knowu as the master gland of the were very useful to the debaters in · ing out of thought, but with which he has •been giving much Hall. t Continued on Page 4) body. \Most of the -endocrine glands the formation of their case. The thought arising out of emotion. study during the last two yeal'S. Sunday marked the college's cele- have only one :special function.'' he subject for the next intercollegiate How can we define the effect of The phenomena are of substantial oration of Christmas. The first Mountebanks P1·oduction said, \while the pituitary has at· forensic eneo.unter is Resolved: a play to the unconscious mind? interest in the field of vacuum service, held dlirin'g the regular least seven.\ \That the Federal Government By stilling the conscious mind. The tubes used as amplifiers and for chapel hour was devoted entirely to To Entertain Sub-frosh Control Standards of Public Edu- audience should not be given the other purposes. Introducing his subject by show- · rt D 0 t · L h h h Christmas music. It is estimated cation.\ Union's team will uphold oppo unity to be distracted by r. ver on u r · as c osen as ing \how impenetrable is the fort~ · h' t · \T · th.at 700 students and townspeople · the affirmative .of this proposition thought. Every phase of the drama IS op1c, natomic Ions in Mix- D Cha I N W ld . on an res:s by which the Pl'tuitary is t f H d 'g athered in the chapel to hear the r. . . .r es : a r . · against Williams College over sta- must be presented so unobtrusively ures o Y rogen Isotopes.\ T.his noun e<l this m r 1 g the tentative guarded,\ Dr. Leonard described the t 1 t service. The next service took the c · 0 n n b tion W.G.Y., on Monday, January that each action appears to be in- repor re ates o experimental P lace of. the regular organ recital.· pr 0 gra_ m for the second -annu~l gland as eing \far away from the 14, 1935. As usual the debate will evi.table. In that way the stage pre- work:s carried on by Dr. Luhr last sub freshman week end which IS prying eyes and hands of man. Na• hil t M at four o'clock. Dr. Tidmarsh played: - . . - · occupy between 11:00 and 12:00 p sentation supports the inevitability year w e a assachusetts Insti~ several compositions on. the organ' scheduled for March 22 and 23. ture put it there, malting it :small m .. This debate will mark the third of action in the well constructed tute of Technology. It relates to Last Year mo re than one hundred and potent. She· carved a hole in· · · 1 · f · l ·n keeping WI'th the spirit of the . . · · ·· in .a series of eight such contesta. drama.\ ana ysts o wns in mixtures of h h d t h 1 the base of the skull for it, enclosed ., h d season and was assisted in the pro- Ig_ an prepara ory sc 00 men The members of the Union team for The main task of the director, ac- Y rogen and deuterium. This · vlstted the camp\c In March and it witl;l a tough m. embrane, ·ahd :sur- 1 tt · 1 g ram by the choir. : . ~ . . the Williams debate are: Ro·bert cording to Mr. Carroll, is to achieve a er Is a new e ement sometimes -·· ·· .. . stayed at the vanous fratermt 1 es. rounded it with the main blood ves- · .. h · call d \h h d , h' h sels to the brain, and defied man to Everest '37, ar~cl Sur1110 13arford '37. t e proper aesthetic distance be- e eavy Y rogen, w IC The Mountebanks will reserve a remove x't,\ These men were chosen as 3. resuit tween the actors and the au-dience.\ has the ·flame chemical properties French Believe in Even Balance of W orl\:, Leisure block of seats at one of their eve- f t' N th' t b 11 d t · t a:s ordinary h d b t h It is because .of the difficulties en- . o a pi:ac tee contest held at the o mg mus e a owe o m er- · Y rogen u as an ning per:t;ormances. of \Ali Enemy. tailed·. 1 .n removi'ng the gland t'hat' last Philoma1hean meeting. fere with the universal appeal of atomic weight of 2. ot the People'' by Frank Ibsen,. for Am th · the d · th ds \th th D E the guests. In the event that more intensive investigation of the effect ong e Important points rama, m o er wor ' WI e r. rnest E. Dale of the Biology h I its. hormone· s. have on· the bodu- has brought out at the discu::;sion were tendency of the audience to identify dep. artment is also planning to at- sub~freshmen conie t a,n are pan· . ' .. th · · · t• th t th d (0 t· d p 4) t d th ti \The French believe in an even' ned for, an extra performance in been delayed until very recently, the stugl?es di?dn at. . . e wotrh int gthof on mue on age . en e mee.._n_g~·----= ... \\\\.._.'-'-'~=--- . b Mo. dern t'nstr.um.· ents and· modern e op!c · 1 no mean a e - balance of work and leisure, and the afternoon of March 23 wrll t e F d 1 r. ~ · t ld t . . , . methods had to be perfected beforA <e era uvvernmen wou con rol P,tt• s • D lt ' c lt [ R l• their century-old experie!!Ce has· en. given. Tiips to the House of Mag1C \ th d .. t t• f th . ., •gma 'n a s u U,..\ :n zny f t Of the General Elect \'c co~pany, the delicate, accurate work of isola~· e a mm 1 s ra ton o e pre:sent · (I · V . ~ · • IAr v v · abled them to evolve a per ec • • u• publi'c edu t· t b t. ld · · 1 b · ting a substance from a gl·and the . ca Ion sys em, · u wou method,\ said Mr. Augustus P. Za· the gi'eatest scientific a oratory Ill 1 t th · t d d t b d A •d M d Ge J • h St d t. h d f h 1 di size or a \fat uma. .bean\ could go on y se up e san ar o e a- ·l ·S ee y . rman ewzs U en 'Q) buesnic, instructor of F.rench, Sat- t e worl some '() t e ea ng on. hered to by the states. It was aiso Ql urday morning in daily asse.mbly in scientists of which are trustees of t• d th t th t t k b t As a result of his work w·I'th ·h1's men rone a e s a es new · e · speaking of the contrMt between . the college, and to the Amerh;an · ter than the go•· t h t t B MORTON H YUT 1lJr .. ,.T L associates. it was explained that the . • vernmen w .a san- Y • .>4Y.Ll1J., American and French life. ocolhotive Company to inspect one d d · · f ff\ . t locomotive, are also included on pituitary controls body growth, con· · ar s are necessary or e ICien Founded twenty-five years ago at tiona! scope of college fraternities He spoke of the customs of the the week-end itinet•ary of the secon· trois the functioning of the thy!Oid education. Too much centralizalion Colm;nbia University, Phi Sigma Phi Sigma Delta undertook a new native Frenchman and his family, dary school of men. · and adrenals, affect the Islands· of was anothel\ point brought out Delta rose from a local fraternity cultural policy at the Annual con~ stat,il),g that life over there goes on The new issue of the .college bul· Langerhans in the, pancreas, and which the .affirmative must meet. to one of the outstanding Jewish vention at Cleveland in December a.t a calmer pace, with a :slower letin is in the hands of the printers causes the secretion of milk in the orga~izations in the United States. 19:'!3. Cognizate of the plight of terr;tpo than here. \One is pleased and copies will be sent ·to each slllb- mammary glands after birth. All Add M 1 The fraternity wa:s :started as a re- Jewry in Europe ;J.nd. especially in with the refreshing absence of the freshman whose na~ne is submitted \If the gland is removed e;&peri- . ee · ·· resses en · ll suit of dissatisfaction with the ex- Germany, Phi Sigma Delta em- great hastl:l and the feverish ac· to Dr. Waldron's office. This issue mentally ;from tadpoles,\ :Or. !,.eon- Civil Enginee1•ing Gropp !sting fraternities at the Columbia ·barked upon a program designed tl\1ty to which, we have had here of the bulletin w.Ui be filled with ard stated, \they will fait to develop campus,. and soon attracted ~any to aid the frustrated hopes of de- painfully to .adjust ourselves.\ pictures of the underg1·a.duate into frogs; rats with gland\s re- D. A. Allee· of the Contruction in.terested students. serving German Jewish students \Wtth the. exception of Rome,\ activities. moved discohtinl:!e to grow. If the Engineering Department of the· Fr()Ih this p()int expansion was where opportunities for lioeral edu- ·declared Mr. Zabuesnic, \I can gland is replaced, growth will General Electric Company spoke rapid and secure, strong chapters catio!l h~d been aenie'd. think of hardly any great capita] CALENDAR catch up to normal.\ 'before the Union College simior being added throughout the where intellectual life is teeming Tomorrow The phase of the work which ha13 ~!lass in civil engineering recently country. The nation~! executive with niore fruitful activity than been investigated the most by Dr.: 'Jn the subject of \Structural Feat- policy was vested in a Central Paris. It offers complete and abso- D:J:ily Assembly-Austin Fox '35, Leonard is the separation of two ures of a ::Mercury-Steam f'ower Council with a traveling executive lute satisfaction of all tastes, the \Interfrate:rnlty Jtelations\ sex-stimulating principles from this Plant.\ secretary visiting each chapter most elevated and tho:se of a mcHe 1 :3D--Organ Recital of Christc gland. This work was undertaken Mr. Allee has· ,been connected several times a year. earthy character.\ mas Music in Memorial Chapel and successfully carried out at Wis- with various ·buifding projects car- Epsilon chapter was installed at Naming the great men of France by Dr. Elmer A Tidmarsh consin and Columbia in the face of ried out at the local. plant of the Union University on April 5, 11)14 The program already set in mo- tion will bring fifteen German Jew· ish students to American universi• bes each year with Phi Sigma Delta arranging with the university offi- cials for free tuition and with free board and room being provic;led by the variou:s chapter house::; of the fraternity. · about whom the cultural activity 7 :30-Athenians M~eting, South much oppositia:n from those who General Eli!cttic Company. He de- with Dr. Eilts Kellert and Judge of the country !!-nd the world has · pollege 1 believed that only one hormone signed and developed ~any of the Henry Hirshfield being initiate(! as been centered, Mr. Zabuesnic used 8:0~Varsily Bal?ketball, Union . : stimulated the sex. galrrds, The re- ~tructm;al features required in the honorarles. The chapter was orig,. · Although pioneering in the pro- them to exe~plify the ~chievements vs. Wesleyan, Gyinnasi\lm productive processe!il, including ovu- construction of the Mercury Steam .inally located at the Albany Law gram, It is the fervent wish and of Franc.e. He also spo)l:e briefly of Thursday lation, menstruation, the growth of plan.t recently completed in· Sche- and Medical colleges ·bUt was hope of Phi Sigma Delta that other the fatnlly life of tl}e Frenchman, Dai;iy Assembly- Dr. Dixon Ryan the embryo, and lact~;~.tioh are init- nec4l.dy\ His artiCle oh the new ~oved to the Union c~mpus in college fraternities will soon see i:D. and of the daily g-atllerln,gs of· tl).e ·Foi . · • mately connected vtith the endo- building forD+ introdu()ed ~y this 1925. $ince its inception the this undertaking a similar program average city natives !Lt ,tl'!:e cafe,, •! Christmas Recess begins at crine gJ,and.s, especially the pittli-. power plaiit appeare~ i11 a recent chapter has progressed steadiiy and for needy students, Irrespective of where everything is giv.en ·PVe.l1 t<? .· li()On. • tary. It is along this line th~t pres- issue of the Engineering News .rapidly. · race '()r religi(,)h, now marooned ·~~~d d4JljoJ.i~er and ·relaxation!' · , ent inve::~:Ugation is being pursued. Reco~(l. Assuming a new trend in func- fxom honie and studle!l, · · ·

., rwo THE CONCORDIENSIS, 'l'UESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1934 MUSIC There is :o 1 :::I:~h::~:e whose duty 'II Fa. r rag 0 - •.•. ·. it is to welcome visiting teams. Students = ·. By LOUIS B. GARDINER from other institutions who visit Union 1!;===::;:=====;;;;;;;;=;;;;;;;;=::;:;;;;;=====:;;::;;===== 1 ·~===========-'• \A Oa111ra Per11a Parole AsBai\ FouNDED 1877 r--ll f'o'1B€R ~s~l!'ldat~d €folill'!}iatr.> ~r~ss ---.::, 19i4 (E9Ik;it~~Jliw!'$l 19~ MAruc;Qtl WlSCO~SI~ Sole and Exclusive National Advertising Represen- tative National Advertising Service, Inc., 11 West 42nd St., N. Y. C., 400 No. Michigan Ave., •Chicago, Illinois. The ofiiclal newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Frlrl~ys throughout the college year, except durrmg Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered a:t the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Clemens F. Hathaway ...•...... Editor-In-Chief Chi Psi Lodge-4-6527 Joseph A. Woolman .......... Managing Editor Kappa Nu House-4-7331 William H. Fitzgerald ....... Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 Milton A. Berger .............•... Sports Editor Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Thornton W. Whipple ..... Circulation Manager Chl Psl Lodge-4-6627 Junior Board Vedder M. Gilbert_ ............. Feature Editor Psi Upsilon House-4-8710 ASSOCIATE EDITORS John D. Anderson Robert C. North Albert lL Stevenson VanVechten Trumbull Sophomore Board M. Bedell S. R. Cohen R. Doolittle F. Feldman ~tallt JGditors W. Ferguson W. Horstmann F. Gage R. Passenger C. Garrison R. Snyder G. Haskell N. Stewart would leave with a much better impression Through our efforts and those of You're an old Dutch master, the Ioyai press, Schenectady has You're Mrs. Astor, of campus and fraternity li:f!e if .someone ·became properly applause conscious You're Pepsodent, 'bl f th · t t .. t d Everyone was so scared after .the: You're romance, were responSl· e or 'e1r en' er mnmen Ul·- Mozart number that Koussevitzky · You're the steppes of Russia, ing their stay in Schenectady. was half-way across the stage be-' You're the pants on a Roxy usher., fore the multitude, realizing it was' I'm a lazy lout that's just about In many Universities a comm1ttee is ap- over', opened up and forced him to stop, pointed whose sole function is to meet the back to take a bow. But if-Baby-I'm the bottom, The Mont Pleasant Gx·aft Hall You're the top. visiting team, show the members around the was packed to ,capacity, and we had. · campus, answer questions, introduce frater- to drag out a stiff armed chair We think this sounds promising. from.a class ... room, penalty for COin\': * * * nity men to their local chapters if SUCh exist, ing in a few minutes late. At the: According to the Time Magazine · h and the Catholic big moguls pic- and Sllggest entertainments for the .evening end of each rendition t e applause tures like Little Man What Now, Of was deafening, and as we sat there, . if the trip is an over night one. Such a com- listening to the frenzied claps re- Human Bo.~da:ge, ·an~ One 1\'Iore, echoing throughout the building, we Riv~r are mde~ent, Jmm~ral an~ mittee would :point out to the Viisitors .aH wondered just how many of the en- u~f1t for . pubhc entertm~ment. college functions taking place dudng their thusiasts knew ~hat it was all' ~~~;eswf:~utth;as~i~~. ~~~ret~~ · 't d . th t th . h.t ,about. Were they JUst so many cul- M W\d . \ 'th VlSl an accompany em· 0 any ey rrug' ture hounds, or did they really un-,. erry 1 ow. aJe · · .nei er ap- . · h d Th\ ·1d b · d t d M . k ? B · · proved or for.btdden, but for adults WlS to at ten • · 1S system WOU · · e pal'tiC- ' tehrs an oussOigs Y: h. tarhrmg afny . only.\ A sort of proceed at yom . • . o . er reasons one mtg a:ve ·or · 1 t t B b in· u1arly valuable durmg the sprmg season .going if Farrago were put up to it, own ris >: ven ure, Bu ' a es · . ·' · ·h ld' Toyland, Baby Take a Bow, and when several contests take place the same to make an honest choice · e wou · Mrs Wiggs f th c bba. p t h a.dmlt he was a culture hound. But. ·\ 0 e a . ge !!- c . day we did get a. thrill out of it 1 , are a few of. th7 medwcre fll~s • · · ' that are 'unobJectionable and smt- Students fl'om other colleges would th:us * • * able for public entertainment:\ leave Union with a friendlier feeling toward Several issues back Punctilio paid\ My, my! us a compliment that ran some- ; * * • d 0 · t J·I' t \d· f th. }'f The .quaint bit of architecture on US an a nJ. 1'6 Ill e Igen 1· ea 0 e l eWe thing like this: \Farrago runs the. wheels next to Washburn is with lead on this crun.pus. The responsibility could gamut in quality from the very us· to stay, we are iruormed from good to the very bad a;nd back~ a reputable source. The Mounte- SO rotate among members of the committee again.\ The possibilities were in- banks point at it with pride and th t tl d t ld t 1.. t · finite, ·but he missed them. He a 1e U y wou no ~.:~e a grea 1ncon- might have said \ ... from the very . assert that this example of Corru- gated Gothic ma;tches the Library venience for any one. The reputation we bad to the very good and back nicely. Personally we think it · ht 1 f 1 ld b th -again.\ That's what he meant any-. should have a little tower attached · mig rna ~:e or ourse ves wou · e wor way, but then grew mellow and let to go with the Chapel. many times the time spent in carrying out us off. * * * Following in the footsteps of our such an actiyity. Philipe Morris distributing col~ SING NOEL! Seldom has the Memorial Chapel been so Judging from the Times \.Any- league, we cast one vote for a pack- thing Goes\ is a musical show ex-. age of several thousand Camels to traordinaire. Cole Porter wrote the the Glee Club for the eight hours'' lyrics, You're the Top which go singing (all told) they put in this somewhat after this fashion: week-end. -D. crowded as it was Sunday night for the Week's Best Editorial Middlesex Notes Ch1·istmas Carol sing·ing. Every seat was HUEY 1\IEETS ms MATCH Non-resident though we may be, occupied before it was time to begin, and late Huey Long, senator ex:traordinary we are nevertheless uttering this 1.----------------------' comers had to stand in back or sit on the from Louisiana, appears to have en- week's remarks from :Middlesex. tered a field in which his bluster- * * * Issue Editor ...•.. , ..... John D. Ande1·son steps in the balcony. ing and bombast is not so meeklY The Mountebanks are going on If th' . f h' t' r h d entertained when he began med- the raydeeo. The energetic presi- Assistant Issue Editors IS IS an age 0 sop IS lea ·ron, w y 0 dling with the student publication dent of the local Thespians de- R. Doolittle N R Stewart so many IJeople come half or three quart~rs ~Aou~~uisi:Sa P~~~~ar Un~:r;:~~~ ~~~v~at~~d~~~~n~ri~~~~ o:'~f~e:'s~ -=================·\\\\=·==== of an hour early to hear themselves smg worked With their usual success as: adapting, the first play. Success, Christmas carols? They could stay home far as the officers of administra- Jarge! Tuesday, December 18, 1934 tion were concerned, he has found ,. ·* * and hear better music on the radio. that undergraduate opinion is not Just outside our window at pre- But merely listening to musie ean never so easily bent to his will and that sent a laborer is wrestling with one · his interference with a free stu.dent of those magnified dentists' drills take the place of really singing. There is a press is bitterly resented. with which men in overalls go INTRAMURAL VISITING LECTURERS deep emotional satisfaction in trying to hit Not only have his activities at L. about puncturing the pavement. S. U. aroused mere local opposition, Lenox Road is being rent to bits . . . high C even if you can't make it. The popu- but his officiousness has moved the in some contractor's valiant .effort The announcement m thiS ISSUe of The l 't f th . S d . ht student press of the whole nation to mend a leaky gas main. . . , ar1 y o e semee · un ay rug comes against him. In a recent confet'ence Concord1ens1s of l\1r. Carrolls address on the from an instinctive need in all of us: a need of the Big Ten Editorial Associa- .bl f t · ] b f th 1 tion he was openly condemned pro ems o s agmg a P ay e ore e c ass which is often neglected in these days of ''both for his unwarranted censor- in modern drama taught by Dr. Wainger re- canned entertainment. ship of the undergraduate news- paper of Louisiana State University, calls the fact that several other members of To hear fifteen hundred people all singing The Reveille, and for his demagogic t th · t f th d' political meddling in purely educa- the faculty have lectured on their special oge er, responslve 0 every move 0 . e l- tional affairs.\ Long's reply t<> this rector, was .a refreshing experience. The dec- charge consisted of a long list of his good deeds in the Lousiana edu- orations were in keeping with the spirit of cational field, but he carefully fields before classes in other fields. Just as Mr. Carroll is the outstanding the occasion. Thanks are due to the y Cab- avoided the issue at hand. C()l!ege editors throughout the nation have authority on play p1·oduction on the campus, inet for sponsoring the affair, to the Choir been loud in their denunciation of th th · I' f h 1 · t ff t' I · 't f th · the loud-mouthed Kingfish. so ere are o er spec1a 1sts among the fac'- or e pmg OU so e ec lVe Y m SPI e 0 eir we wonder if his experience has ulty. That they should be willing to lecture tired throats, and to Dr. Tidmarsh for the taught Mr. Long his lesson. He t · h f h' 1 d h' must now :be appraised. of the fact before cl f th f . d. t con agwus c arm o lS ea ers lp. that his invasions of the t'ight of asses o o er p.ro essors Ill· ICa es the freedom of the press and of the not only their loyalty to the greater purpose educational field will not be meekly . countenanced by undergraduates. of the college but also their generosity of GOOD SPORTSMANSHIP -The Colgate Maroon. spirit and value of the college. Professor 0 Larrabee, an authority on early Amei·ican Some weeks ago Dr. Fox assei-ted that in Notes On Our college life as much benefit was to be derived C • • * * Mrs. Achilles' vigorous defence of the hockey rink deserves kindly comment. On S·aturday mo1ning she looked from her window and' saw to her horror a large number of small boys disporting themselves variously upon the rink's· shining surface and thereby cutting it up most unpleasantly. She rose to the occasion. Going out she gathered the culprits around her and mad·e speech somewhat as follows: \Now boys, you know the Union team uses this rink and if you cut it all up they won't be ruble to practice and maybe they'll lose their games. Now, I depend on you to slide, not skate, only up at that end where it's shaded and not down here where the sun has softened it? Otherwise, you'll have to stay off entirely.\ And then the little brother of a Union so.phomore spoke up. \Don't worry, Mrs. Achilles, you can trust us!\ It's Union's moral influence seep- ing down to the younger generation. ... * • thought has appeared before classes in from the extra-curricular activities as from. ontemporartes American history; Messrs. Mosely and Bron- studies, and ip connection with this he urged MEDICAL FRATERNITIES The third editorial of Friday's h I th Issue of the journalistic emanation ner ave ectured before classes in philosopl1y the stu·dents to take an 1'nterest 1'n SU\h actl·,r_ Two universities announce e f t· \ v· ·formation of new Greek orga.niza- was very com or mg, very com- and economics, furnishing histon'cal back- ities. tions on their campuses: forting. In fact, we might call it a NICE THOUGHT, as the Victor- d f th · d t d\ d D It would he much to the benefr\t of the col 1. Who Kippur Upsilo:pg. ians said of Adelaide Proctor. We groun ° e perlO S S li Ie : r. Wainger, • . . . . . - 2. Chi Baby Chi, New Maternity .. hate to say anything about a Polly- who has had practical experience in politics, lege commu~Itr If h1~ adVIce were praet1~e~ • • • anna, ·but ... ? Without an atmo- ore th n It IS Qmte often adverse Critl sphere of optimism or a mention of has appeared before the classes in political n: . ad' t d. , t th . t - FOOTBALLAMORALITYFO:BOE fraternities no editorial seems to . . . c1sm IS Irec e agams e va1·1ous ex ra- At California, by the way. the be complete. science, Dr. Stanley has lectured on philo- curricular activities but those who cliticize girls have organized a women's • • * sophical backgrounds of the men studied in seldom do anythin; to remedy the defects ~~ 11 f!f~t t~ep~~: f::t~~!ir t:::C~ tm'::, a~~n~nf:~n~~i~e t~~n(!~~; literature and history. These are but a few they attack We realize of course that many uti:ve states that the girls have d~- of our friends to send us one of • ' ' clared a ban on all amours unttl those repellent Christmas cards examples of 'Intramural Visiting Lecturers.' of these, even if they did so wish to follow the team wins a conference game which have inscribed upon them in up their criticisms with constructive meas- 'bY at least seven points. old English; • • A Verrie Merrie Xmas!!! The Sunday Chapel Service in the morning, the organ recital in the afternoon, and the Community Catol Service ii1. the evening, all consisted of Christmas carols and hymns. Most of the morning serv- ice was made up of numbers ren- dered by the choir. Their best ·sing- ing was done when they sang \Si- lent Night\ in choral response i.o the opening prayer, The same piece was sung in simHar manner at the evening service, but not with the same excellence of technique Indicated in the morning. Some very accomplished singing Was done by the choir when they sang \Pat-a-pan\ an old Bul'guJJ.- dian carol. This was sung at both the morning and afternoon serv- ices, but its rendition in the after- noon was far superior, The congre- gation did some truly creditable singing with that lovely old La:tin hymn \Adeste Fideles,\ and the tradition::tl \The First Noel.'' The third hymn given by the congrega- tion .jn the morning service was \0· Come, 0 Come, Emmanuel,\ a rather difficult piece to sing with- out practice, and an unfamiliar one. A better known hymn, such as the fh·st two, should have been given the congregation. The choir, considering the amount of work they had to do during the day, performed very creditably. They had to practice and sing a total of almost six hours on Sun- day, yet at the close of the eve- ning service evinced no signs of fatigue, althoUgh they had every right to do so. During the organ recital, Dr. Tid- marsh played Durpee's \Nativity\ and 'Mauro-Cottene's \Christmas Evening\ and the \March of the :Magi Kingsu by Dubois. This last is a song representing the journey of the wise men to Bethlehem with a sustained note as the guiding star, He closed the recital with Handel's famed \Hallelujah Chorus.'' This selection was rendered in the so-ft glow of candlelight with the entire audience standing. The mag- nificance of this great piece of music inspired the entire attend- ance. Secret Service I Bureau ·-- t It is certainly gratifying to note the fraternal spirit shown by the Chipsi's toward those Arson-Bugs (sometimes called Beta's). First they serve the Bugs with breakfast the morning of the Great Confla- gration and then extend the cour- tesy of the Lodge to the same Bugs for a dance on Saturday. Very pleasing! Perhaps it is the Christ- mas Spirit. ... * * ·t Speaking of Christmas Spirit- maybe that was the cause of the hilarity in Middlesex: on Sunday night. It seems that the Psi U sophomores and a popular young professor were amusing themselves by pitching coins at the electric lights. Unfortunately one of them broke. Again we feel it our duty to warn the Psi U's to confine their childlike antics to the Psi Upsilon House, \' . . t Weren't the Delta Phi's somewhat premature with their Faculty Tea on Sunday last? Marks don't come out until February, boys! * * * t At the D. U's Christmas Dinner on Sunday Santa Claus arrived in a large limousine to dispense gifts to the boys. Congratulations, that is the kind of Santa Claus to have. • • * t We feel it our duty to reprimand the Kappa Nu's for the lack of hos- pitality shown to their R. P. I. brothers. At a recent dance the said R. P. I. brothers spent the evening in the kitchen playing chess. Upon further investigation we learned that the chess board was close to the punch supply, so there may be something in chess after all. • • • t Uncle Philipe has forgotten us again this week, so we are unable to bestow coffin nails to the worthy In the absence of faggots we wil display our unlimited generosity by wishing each and every one of you a Merry Christmas and such. Es, Es and Bee This work of interchanging lectures has been going on quietly for several years, prin- cipally in the social studies division. But this ures.' are n~t • able to do so, but if tho.se \:h_? NO MORE CLOIST~s -F. H. are m a position to would support their entl- No· one will ever be able to say F;;;;;:::;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;=:;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;j year there are more foresighted professors who do not hesitate to call upon the 'experts' of the faculty to speak on their special fields. The students like this interchange of lec- turel·s. This significant educational policy stands side by side with the appoinment as honorary fellows leading men in the 'outside world' in order that the college community may keep up with what is going on outside academic circles. Union is- keeping in the forefront of educational progress. cism with definite steps toward correcting that a certain South Dakota .pro- fessor isn't practical and a,ble to the fault, they might find that their grounds deal with the realities of life. He for criticism had vanished. was out hiking with a gun one day. Ambling about, he couldn't resist The college world is not so greatly differ- a shot at a pheasant, although it ent from the world outside. Few indeed are was out of season. To his con- sternation, he killed the 'bird. .At the unde1·graduates who plan to limit their -that moment, he observed out of future a --tivities to studying. Now is the time the corner of his eye, a car stopping \ on the road, so he stuffec1 the and here are the opportunities afforded to pheasant into a corn shock, Sure enough, the visitor was the game give them scope, to teach them how to mix warden. As he drew nearel', tne with their fellows, to broaden their experi- professor picked up the entire corn shock and began to wallt away. ence, and most important, to teach. them the \Hey what's the idea?\ the man value in constructive criticism and fairness called. \Oh just getting some thanks- in destru.etive criticism; in shoxt to teach giving decorations,\ answered the them gooo sportsmanship. professor in a cheery voi<le-and sot a.wa.y with it, ID4r C!tnurnrbirusisfxt~ubs Wire ~rusnn'11 ~rr~tittgs UJn All ~ta i!trttbrrs Aub i\11 ®t~trs Qtnnutrtrll lltt4 Muintt a.tnlltgr G ' Vi l Sa li>o stx M:1 th• ,ph ,f.h :M:: ag in~ Ni ad de frc otl at ai. V\\~l Fi sh sa te: fu til lb; ar gs B: N: sq ac m te y( S€ w f(l pl u tl: pl fe fc pi S( R S( tl le S< IV. Sl J, fi u VI g e: a VI tl I v t: c u 11 a a r c J ,

in cital in Unity ing, all anP. serv- ren- sing- \Si- to piece at with chnique singing they at both serv- after- congre~ d La:tin the The wa~.> a. with- one. as ·been amount the sing a Sun- eve- of every Dr. Tid- of the last journey with star. This in the the mag- of attend- to note by the • First Confla- cour- Bugs Very Christ- Spirit- of the Sunday Psi U young electric of them to their Upsilon Tea come Dinner in a gifts to that is have. primand hos- P. I. the said evening Upon learned close to may be us unable worthy. we will by e of you Bee THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1934 ,. Garn.et Five Set To Avenge ;-==.,.n=.~..ra=m=ur=aJ=.sa=sk=e+=.ba=.,~~:~~~~~~~ ::::::::::::::} 1 : Phillippi . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 0 8: r.==================:n 12' o· 0 AROUND THE CAMPUS 0 o:l.!.;;;:;=========!l Three Mermen to Practice During Holidays •l;;;;============;;;;;:.t''Denzler ............... 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 2 10 Ralph Semerad is still gammg With a meet coming less than a Schedule 1 recognition for his prowess on the week after their return from the W .. esl'e· ya·n V .. I.c'tory L: ·ast· Yea· .r· Leagues ~ir~~~~~ie .. ::::::::::::: g '\ I Totals ............... 9 * * ·• Visitors Defeated in Fi,rst 'Tilt; Revamped Five to ·· Meet Ga1·net Quintet Defeat Middlebury (n First Court Win ___ Fhi Upsilon (19) G F T' football .field. His expert Held gen- Christmas vacation, the swimming Gane 2 0 4 eralship has been rewarded by men- team wHI hold practice on the Tonight Fer. gus·o·n· ............... 0 0 o· tion on the All-:A.mer!can Football averag·e of every other day during Phi Sigma Delta vs. Delta Chi' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · (7 : 3 0). !:Ducherer ............ , . 0 0 0 Team, the Little All-Amer.ican Sec- the recess. Those who go home : Gatchell 2 0 4 o11d Team and on the ~ll-0pponent for the recess will be expected to Theta Nu Epsilon vs. Neutrals~ · ' · · · · · · · · · · · · · _ • _ _ , , ( 8 : 3 0). ; Cadwallader ........... 0 5 51 teams of Rochester and Williams. get in a few hours of swimming be- A reva·mped Wesleyan quintet Semerad Leads Milano, Me- . .January 7 1 Stevenson ............. 3 0 6: Recently Coach Jack Blott selected fore reporting back to Coach Leon- wl .ll take the floor aga 1 ·nst ·union's L bd Ch\ Al h B t Th t Totals ............... 7 5 19; an All-Opponent team on. .which he ard. . . . Dowell·. ·I'n .·Scort'ng w· 'hl\c·h .· am a 1 p a vs. ' e a e a·,· Be .... T·he'- Pi .(20) G l d s d t th t b k varsity tomorrow night. Coach.' p (\ 30 ) .... ...., F T: Pace emera a e ·qua·r er ac Numerous time trials have been Lash has built up a fast, aggressive Gave Union Fh·st Victol'Y, 1 K~~pa · Nu vs. City Neutrals! WooJruff ............. 0 0 o: position. Three Amherst and three held recently and Leonard has nar- team in shat·p· contrast to. the teams, ( 8 :SO). ; · Mernman · · .. · · · .. · · · · 0 1 0 o; William~ men appear on the team. rowed the team down to thirteen he has coached in the past. Lash is .January 8 ,: Brown . · ..... · · .. · · · ·. 1 3; Moses, Amherst, le; Kellam, Trin-• men. Captain Griswold, Mal Grif- seriously handicapped due to the. The varsity quintet chalked ·up' Phi s· K Th t N : Hallenbeck .......... , . 2 2 6· lty, It; Cramer, Amherst, lg; Noeh-· fing, Bill Keens, Emerson, Ed k f 11 th cL AI 1gma · appa vs. e a· U1 D•n'n 4 0 gi ren, WH!iams, c·, Gendar, Williams,, uoul'·on, R\\S Knox, Jol1n Arg.er- •lrJ.c o ta · men on e squa . - its tirst victory ·of the year Satur- Epsilon l7:3.0). . .. : M~cNab· · · · · · .. · .. · · · ·\ · 1 ~·~ \ ~ Ien and '.rhompson, last year's scor- day night when it defeated the Mid-· Alpha Pht Delta vs. Kappa Sigma Te· m·pl·eto·n· .. · · · · · · · · · · .. 0 0 2: rg; English, Amherst, rt; Welles, singer, Van '\Ver.t, Fenton Gage, ing threats, ai::e lost to the Cardj:pal dlebury five, 48 to 30, in the Alumni, (8:30).. , · · · · · · · · · · .. · 1 1 Williams, re; Semerad, Union,. q; l\Iaus Stearns, Carl Faelton, Pog- ·flive arid considerable work has Qy.m., The· Dutchmen took the lead. * • • Totals · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 8 4 20: Eigenbauer, Trinity, lh; Nordbury, genpohl, and Kennedy are the men ·]jleen done in an effort to secure a at the verr outset of the game and, * * * : ~ochester, rh; Cronin, Conn. State, who will probably remain on the satisfactory comlJinalion. . were never headed. Results : Delta Upsilon (30) G F T f • squad, Colgate is to be the first Defeat~d In, op· ener Baskets .by Ralph Semerad and · ___ l Olson · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 3 0 6~ * * • opponent of the Garnet tankmen ioe Milano ~ve the Garnet the Phi Sigma Kappa 38 , Delta Chi!.Bedell,. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 o· One of the most contrasting pic-• and is undoubtedly the most form- In their ·first game of t~e season,. edge in the :first half, whi'le Leete. 15 . i, Schne md ............. 6 1 13 tures of the year was seen last Sat- idable team Union's nata tors will Saturday. night, the M1ddletown and sweet kept the visitors in the: Th t N E . 1 20 K , Everest ................ 0 0 0 ul'day night when Coach Nitchman meet during the season . l;loys were set back, 34 to 19, .by. a running. Union's passing was none A e ~ u psi on ' appa Vo:oburgh · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 0 withdrew all his first string varsity The time trials have been poor strong Coast Guard team. Captam ,too good at this stage of the game,. 1 k~~p~·Sigma 21 , Theta Delta Chi Fenton ..... · · .. · · · · · · · 0 1 0 2. men except big Van Waldron and to date with the exception uf Gris- Mac Go~de ;started at for':a.rd for but th~y did make a good propor-. 20 Brown .... · · · ...... · ·. 0 o. matched his diminutive reserves wold's and Griffing's in the dashes. ~he Cardmals and was an a.,r essrve. tion of their shots good. Semerad: · . , . ' Davidson .. · · ·. · . · · · · · · 0 0 0 ag-ainst the hefty Middlebury play- Although these men are not making .player for the ~esleyan team was tallying consistently on both. Psl Upstlo_n 19 • Beta Theta Pl 20 : Gammons .. · · .. · · · · · · · 0 0 0, ers. Sozz looked like the giant amid record times they are in excellent .thwughout the evemng. Last y_ear pop shots and those of the hook 12 ~elta Upsilon ao, Alpha Delta Ph\ Bergstrom ............ 0 0 o 9 · the pigmies, and in the last ten shape for this time of the season Ma<: Goode scored eleven pomts variety. ']he Leet~Sweet combina-: · . . · Reed · . · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · 4 1 minutes (}f play had good command :md should be in rare form when ~gamst the. G:ar.net team and was. tion scored nine of the ten points Neutrals 15 • Lambda Cht Alpha 6 · Totals . , ... · ... · · · · · .14 2 30 of the field from his lofty position. the big maroon team from Colgate mstrumental m the defeat of the scored by the visitors in the first Box Scores A:lpb.a Delta Phi (12) G F T. * ,. .., swoops down. on Union on January Nitchmanmen. He is espectally .half ' Phi Sigma Kappa (38) G F T: Shepard ............ · ·. 2 0 4, 12. adept at long shots and has a. : Waldron Stars on Defense Van Auken ............ 1 1 3 Warner ............... 2 0 4: Milt Enzer, whose News Bureau deadly eye on one-handed pops . ·Vandecar .............. 9 1 19 Shields ................ 0 0 0 worlt has made him into a walking from the side lines. O'Leary, an- · Van Waldron played as fine a de- .Hull . , ................. 1 o 2 Garrison .............. 2 0 4 newspaper, pas turned. his hand. to other letterman, and Havens were fensive .game as has been seen in a. Blaisd.ell ............... 1 1 3' Little .................. 0 0 Q: the photo graphical sid.e of journal- at the guard positions with Behrens long time, holding \Primo\ Clonan, Maloney ............... 3 1 7 Hughes ............... 0 0 Q, ism with some success. After three at the -pivot post. The other for- the highly-touted Panther center,· Neumann ............. 2 o 4: Doyle ................. 0 0 0 m· four student photographers fail- ward position was held down by to three points, scoring an equal: Total .... , ........... 17 4 38' Totals ............... 6 0 12 ed to record the action shots that Fill back, a sophomore who has number •himself. Time and time: Delta Chi (15) G F T • • * were necessary for good representa- shown up we)l all season. The aogain Van nipped Clonan's pivot: Le F()rrestier .......... 1 2 4· Neutrals (15) G F T tion of student life, Enzer took his sailors have an· exceptionally strong shots in. the bud, besides taking: Lattridge ....... , . . . . . . 0 0 n Righthand . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 2 trusty Ziess lens camera and snap- team and Wesleyan was unable to most of the visitors' shots off thei Milne ................... 1 0 2' Truex ................. 0 0 0 ped. his own. fuaction smoothly .for any length of backboard. ' Keenan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Maguire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 3 La.st week the inhabitants of the time. Lash, according to the Wes-.. In the second half Union's offense, Stroebel ... , . . . . . . . . . . . 2 0 4 Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1 7 gym were the objects o-f his pho- lbyail Argus, has excellent reserves .. became smoother and featured: Kerns ..... , ........... 1 0 2 Seifert ................ 1 1 3: tography. On.e unusual picture and used them .often in Saturday's. some fine scoring plays resulting! Ritchie ................ 1 0 2! Totals ............... 6 3 15 caught Doc Clowe, witll. his eye game. Bender, Lindner, Tompkins,, in ·baskets .by McDowell and Ro-: McKane ... , ........... 0 1 1 Lambda Chi Alpha (6) G F T glasses on his brow, and Dr. Barker, Coultas, Stewart, and Mac- tJinda. The battle for supremacy: Totals ... , ........... 6 3 15 Hazard ................ 0 0 0 Rourke. Although the roving pho- Naughten constitute the rest of the. between Joe Milano and former * 0 • Randall ............... 1 0 2 te>grapher was able to catch Ed squad who will doubtlessly see Captain Dick Sweet of Middlebury Theta Nu Epsilon ( 2 0) G F T Kendrick ............. , 0 0 0 Fitz working on a healthy SIJecimen action against the Garnet five to- culminated. in the ejection of Sweet• Robbins ............... 3 0 6 Agius ................. 1 2 4 of Union College manhood, he was morrow. · from the game on four personal Lavorgna ..........•.. 0 0 0 Canale ................ 0 0 0 unable to snap the elu.slve Mr. Fitz Out For Revenge , fouls. Milano made eleven points K 4 0 8 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 2 6 with his shirt on. to Sweet's six;. ern · · · · ·. · · .. ·....... -;;;;;;;=;;;;;;:=::;;;;;:;;;;;;::;::;::;::;::;=;;;;:=::;::;::;::;;;;;;;;;;::;::;::;::;::;=ii Captain Ray McDowell, with four- , Robinson _ ........ , . . . . 2 2 6 if teen points, was high scorer in last. Unl(}n's Scoring Streal.: · Frasier ....... _ . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 year's contest. Joe Milano was w·th \o. t Van Wormer .......... 0 0 0 sec·ond highest fDr the home team 1 . a ... ou ten minutes to go Totals ...... - ........ 9 2 20 with. seven markers. With only a Union was leading, 34 to 25. They Kappa Alpha. (15) G F T PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. FERRY STREET f[!st scrimmage yesterday and light then scored twelve successive points MoMurray .... _ ........ 1 0 2 f~:ciJfJd~~~~ry sjfv~e s~~~·d;;nn~;::, !~~~r il~~~~;~r:e~~c~~e~~tt:~t~~~.~~ ~~~d~.::: :::::: ::::: ~ g ~ Schenectady, N. Y. th U · t t b 11 once and their opponents three 1 0 2 ~~~~;;~~~~;;;~~;;;;~~~;;~~~~;;;~;;;~~~~~~ e nwn earn appears o ' e we t' f b Partridge ........ , . . . . · prepared to avenge the defeat suf- Jmes, once on a oul, efore the. Farra.r ....... _ ........ 0 0 0 fered last year. Ralph Semerad, game ended. Reynolds .....•........ 3 0 6· for the first time in six years of Semerad led the home team with Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 5 0 10 playing on the court, was high twelve points, although Leete was I\.a.ppa Sigma (21) G F T scorer in a ;tJasketball encounter. high for .the evening with thirteen. Clark .....•...•..•..• , . 1 1 3 Ralph is living up to the early sea- McDowell and Milano scoired Hellstrom .... _ ........ 4 1 9 son predictions and is sure tD be a eleven each. Rankin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1 '1 thorn in the fast attack of the Wes- The summary: Lindabury .•...... , ...• 0 0 0 leyan team. Eleven points were Potts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 2 scored by both McDowell and Union. (!18) FG FP T Totals ............... 9 3 21 Milano against the Middies in the McDowell, rf .......... 3 5 11 Theta Delta. Chi (20) G F 'I' same game. Van Waldron and Rotunda, rf, rg ........ 3 0 6 Reikle .....•......... , . 0 0 0 J•ack Moffett are ·both playing the Tinkle, rf . . • . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 finest •brand of ball .seen around Milano, If . . . . . . . . • . . . . 4 3 11 Union in many moons. Van's great Brandow, lf ........... 0 0 0 work In the early part ()f the Tech 'Waldron, -c . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 3 game against Flowers was a fine Semerad, rg - . . . . . . . . . . 6 0 12 exhibition of defensive tactics Brown, rg- . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 M. Clonan, c . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Sweet, rg ..... - . . . . . . . . 3 Martin, lg . . . . . . . . . .. . . 1 1!'. Clonan, lg . . . . . . . . . . 0 Totals ... _ ........... 13 1 0 0 0 4 a 6 2 0 30 ag>alnst a scoring threat. Wesleyan Moffett,. lg ............. 1 1 3 will have a hard time getting past Casey, lg .............. 1 0 2 these two versatile players. Jiggs Totals . - .. - .......... 19 10 48 Rotunda again proved his ability Middl-ebury (30) FG when he went in and calmed down Hoehn, rf ............. 2 the erratic performance of the Benson, rf . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Garnet team in the first half Sat- Leete, l:f . . • . . . . . • . • • • . • 5 urday. Jiggs is a shifty man and .Zowestosk.i, rf . . . . . . . . . 1 FP T 0 4 0 0 3 13 0 2 !Score at half time-Un:lon, 19; Middlebury, 10. Four personal fouls-Sweet. Personal fouls com- mitted-Middlebury, 11; Union, 9. Free throws missed-Union, 4; Mid- dlebu.ry, 6. Referee~Dowling, Cort- land. Time of halves-20 minutes. has a good eye which he will have a chance to use tomorrow night against Wesleyan. The lineup will remain the same as in the first two contests. HENRY•s BARBER SHOP BARBERIN.G and MANICURING 10 N. Y. C. Arcade All-Star Lacrosse Team to Go Abroad ~ 1 -~~~~~~~~~~~~1 Duncan :r,£cNab, '35, captain of lacrosse, received word rrom Coach William Harkness that the commit- tee on intercollegiate lacrosse sanc- tioned the proposal to send an all- LANSING'S DAIRY 215 North Ten Broeck Street SCHENECTADAY- Phone 2-7758- SCOTIA star team to England ne~t summer. .~~~~~;;;;;;~;;;~~~;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;~~;;~~ The team would tour the north and south of England playing many . teams including Oxford and Cam- bridge. Presupposing that at least one Union man will be picked, it would mark the second. time that Union has partici·pated in an inter- national contest. It is not without reason that such a supposition is made because for several years Union has placed men on the All- American. Lacrosse team. In former years the distinction of· All-American selection attached lit- tle importance other than the re- cognition of the player's prowess. There was hardly any public ac- claim for these star· perfor:t;ners. Tqis decisiQn should prove, however, to be a ·big objective and stimillous to the players at Union. While in New York, Coach Hark- ness ran into Anson Bruce, former athletic director at Union. Mr. Bruce provided an opportunity for the coach. to give a short talk over · · station WHN on the subject of lacrosse. ·De Witt's Lunch 118 JAY STREET Opposite New Ctiy Hall SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY. INC. 147 JAY STREET Schenectady, New York Gazette Press Support Our Advertisers UNION COLLEGE BOOK STORE Room '5' Administration Building CHRISTMAS GIFTS College Seal Jewelry Fountain Pens Pennants Leather Goods Christmas Cards OUR NEW LINE CIGARETTES and SMOKIN.G TOBACCO Hours-8:45 · 12:00, 1:15 • 5:00 FRANK FERRARO Fruit a.nd Produce The best, for tbe least, with dependable service. 1231 (Jrn.ne St. Tel. 2-78~W CHARLES' Fo~;Iy The O!flclal Union College Barber Cor the past 2~ years. Ask any upper classmen, they know. 11 operators. Schenectady's greatest barber. COR.. STATE AND BROADWAY ®)1F ashion Notes By • Sweaters With A Pull Sleeveless sweaters, of the v. neck type, are becoming increas· ingly po:rmlar with the well-dressed collegians. Com- . ~ ing in colors of . navy, wine, gray and brown, they 1 1 1 1 1 1 , 1 11 ~ 1 '-.~ a r e exceedingly ~ ~ 1: ~~ 1 1 \• ~ 1 1 ~ ~ 1 1 fashionable in the \ ~ \ 1 1 1 \1 tl ~ ~ 1 1 ) cable stitch. They 1 l1 (, ~ ~ ~ , 1 ~ h a v e a natural ~ )\' ~ '1 t 1 tl ~ 1 place in the ward ~ robe of today, for IIIII II' 1111 they can correctly replace the waist coat for wear with a tweed suit The fashions of 1934 are ex tremely practical throughout, and the low-cost variations in dress provided by the stylists, such as the sleeveless sweater, malce it possible for the college man to have a completely fashionable wardrobe at the barest minimum of expense. These \change-offs'~ also make it possible for him to avoid the sameness of day-to-day attire that becomes so tedious and unpleasant. ' 11 So;;;()tcb.y\ Socks The English may be dictating just what is the correct style in hats this season, but the Scotch seem to be dorn- ~ inating t h e re- , mainder of t h e wardrobe. With the p 1 a i d s and roughs predomin- ating in suit cloths, it is only natural that socl{s with many varia- tions o:f plaid de- signs should be ordered. The ar- gyle type :Plaids are the most fashionable a n d serviceable for campus wear. As a pleasant variation from the plaid design, socks with a horizon tal bar type of pattern have been created for the smart college man. Either of the two new designs will fit in with the new ensemble, and carry out tbe ''rough\ idea com pletely. They'll be especially smar and practical during the cold days approaching, Don't miss on thisl Can We Help? Questions concerning what is and what is not correct dress will be answered by the Colle· giate Digest f a s h i o n staff. Write now to: Fashion Ed· itor. Collegiate Digest, P. 0. Box 472, Madison, Wis.

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1934 Plan Broadcasts Of Fifty-two Colleges Monday, February 25, at 11:00 p. m.-Yarsity debate with Hamilton College. Dr. Elm.er A. Tidmarsh's organ re- cita:I. Payment of Fees Explained [n Detail by Comptroller Friday, March 1, at 4:30 p, m.- Dr. Elmer A. Tidrnarsh's organ re- cital. Chapel Services, Mountebanks, Debates, Organ RecitalsAre Among Events Scheduled Sunday, March 3, at 11:00 a. m. -Sunday chapel service, with Pres- ident J. Edgar Park, of Wheaton College, as guest preacher. Friday, March 8, at 4:30 p. m.- Dr. Elmer A. Tidrnarsh's organ re- cital. For the remainder of the current college year, Union is scheduled to broadcast over WGY no less than fifty-two times according to a re- cent survey made by the News Bu- reau. These broadcasts include the regular weekly chapel services, and Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh's weekly organ recital broadcasts. Other Union features inc'luded on the schedule are the varsity debates, Mountebanks' presentations and the Baccalaureate service, scheduled for June 10. The complete schedule is listed bel{)W: Sunday, March 10, at 11:00 a. m. -Sunday chapel service, with Dr. J. Gordon Gilltie, of South Congrega- tional Church, of Montclair, N. J., as guest preacher. Monday, March 11, at 11:00 p. m. -Varsity debate with Wesleyan University. Tuesday, March 12, at 11:00 p.m. -Mountebanks Theatre presenta- tion. Friday, March 15, at 4:30 p.m.- Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh's organ re- cital. Union t:Jollege on the Air WG Y. 790 Kilocycles From December 14, 1935 to June 10, 1935 Sunday, March 17, at 11:00 a. m. -Sunday chapel service, with Pro- fessor Carlton J. H. Hayes, of Co- lumbia University, as guest preacher. Monday, March 18, at 11:00 p. m. -Varsity debate with American In- stitute of Bankers. Friday, December 14, at 4:30 p. m. -Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh's organ recital. Sm1day, December 16, at 11:00 a. m.-Annual Christmas Service by Dr. Elmer .A. Tidmarsh and the Union College Choir. Friday, March 22, at 4:30 p. m.- Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh's organ re- cital. Friday, December 21, at 4:30 p. m.-Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh's or- gan recital. Sunday, March 24, at 11:00 a.m.- Sunday chapel service, with Dr. Archibald Black, of the First Con- gregational Church, Montclair, N. J., as guest preacher. Friday, December 28, at 4:30 p. m.-Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh's organ recital. Friday, March 29, at 4:30 p. m.- Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh's organ re- cital. Friday, April 5, at 4:30 p. m.-Dr. Friday, January 4, at 4:30p.m.- Dr. Tidmarsh's organ recital. Elmer A. T1dmarsh's organ recital. Tuesday, January 8, at 11.00 p.m. -Mountebanks Theatre presenta- tion. Tuesday, April 9, at 11:00 a. m.- Mountebank.s 'I1heatre presentatJOn. Friday, January 11, at 4:30 p. m. -Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh's organ recital. Friday, April 12, at 4;30 p. m.- Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh's organ re- cital. Sunday, January 13, at 11:00 a. m. -sunday chapel service, with Dr. John Ingham, Stated Clerk, General Synold, Reformed Church of Amer- ica, as guest preacher. Monday, January 14, at 11:00 p. m.-Varsity debate with Williams College. Sunday, April14, at 11:00 a. m.- Sunday chapel service, with Presi- dent-Emeritus Charles Alexander Richmond, as guest preacher. Monday, April 15, at 11:00 p. m.- Yarsity debate with Dartmouth Col- lege. Friday, January 18, at 4.30 p. m. -Dr. Elmer A. TH.lma~:;h's u1 gan recital. Sunday, January 20, at 11.00 a.· m.--Sunday chapel serVICe, with Dean Ementus Charlc~ R. B1 own of the Dtvmrty School of Yale t:m- versJty, as gue~t p1 eache1. Friday, January 25, at 4 30 p.-m. -Dr. Elmer A. Tldmar::.h\.::; mgan recrtal. Sunday, Janua1y 27, at 11.00 a.m. -Sunday chapel :seJVJCe, with the Rev. Elmore McKee, Rector Tr mrty Church, Buffalo, a~ gue::ot preacher. Friday, February 1, at 4.30 p m. -Dr. Elmer A. Tidmar:,h'.::; o1gan recttal. Sunday, February 3, at 11.00 a. m.- Sunday chapd :;crvrce, w1th L1. Jesse H. Hulme:;, p1 ofe:;::.or uf phil- osophy at Swat thmore College, as gue:;t preacher. Friday, FebiUaiy 1$, at ·1.30 p. m. -Dr. Elmer A. TH.i!llar::.h·, u:~,..tu recital. Sunday, February 10, at 11.00 a. m.--Sunday chapel servtce, w1th Dr. Bernard I. Bell, Cannon St. John's Cathedral, Providence, R. I., as gue:Jt preacher. Monday, February 11, at 11.00 p. m.-Varsrty debate wrth Awhcr;,t College. Tuesday, Feb1 uary 12, at 11.vo p. m.-Mountebanks Theall e pre::,eula- twn. Friday, Feb1 uary 15, at 4.30 p. m. -Dr. Elmer A. Tidma1:;h':; mgau recital. Sunday, February 17, at. 11.00 a. m.--Sunday chapel service, with Dr. Hugh Black, Union Theoluglcal Seminary, New York City, as guest preacher. Friday, February 22, at 4.30 p. m. - Dr. Elarcr A. Talllluloh·~ or gull recital. Sunday, February 24, at. 11.00 a. m.-Sunday chapel :ocrvrce, wiLh Rev. Reinhold Niebuhr, Union The- ological Seminary, New York Ctty, as guest preacher. you can dtaw w1th your pet pen AND the rrght drawong mlc-that's Hoggms', of course -roghl lor color-right for pen -roghl for brush. 16 Waterproof Colors. Water· proof and General !soluble when dry) Blacks. CHAS. M Hl<lGINS & CO., Inc. 271 Ninth St. llrooklvn. N Y HIGGINS 1 American DRAWING INI<S Friday, April 19, at 4:30 p. m.- !\ i .. · Friday, .April 26-, at 4:30 p. m,- Dr. Elm.er A. T·idmarsh's organ re- cital. In re:ply to many inqmnes re- Sunda.y, .April 28, at 11:00 a. m.- ceived recently at the Comptroller's Sunday chapel service, with Dr.' Office, the fellowing statement is Ralph W.. SoClltman, of the Christ made c<lncerning the payment of Methodist Episcopal Church of New fees for the second half of the year: Yo.rk City, as guest preacher. Tuition and Fees are due on the Friday, May 3, at 4:30 p. m.-Dr. followin·g dates: Elmer A. Tidmarsh's organ recital. Fresh:p~en and Sophomores- Frida.:y:, May 10, at 4:30 p, m.- •.ruesday-Wednesday, Feb. 5-6 Dr. Elhner A. Tidmarsh's organ re- Juniors and Seniors- cital. 'Thursday-Friday, Feb. 7-8 Tuesday, May 14, at 11:00 p.m.- Repeated course fees are due also Moun:teban•ks Theatre presentation. on the .above dates and should be Friday, May 17, at 4:30 p. m.~Dr. included with Tuition payments. Eln~er A. Tidmarsh's organ recital. Bills fo-r repeated course fees will Friday, May 24, at 4:30 p. m.-Dr. be sent after the 15th of January. Eln~e-r A. Tidmarsh's organ recital. The Installment Plan for payment Frid!Ly, May 31, at 4;3Q p. m.-Dl', Qf Tuition will be continued during. ElDI~r .A. Tidmar13h'S. o)::gan reqital. ,t~e nex.t half of the year. The in- Friday, June 7, at 4:30 p. m.-Dr. 1 ihal payment will be due on the Ebner .A Tidmarsh's organ recital. above dates and the balance will be Sunday, June 10, at 11:00 a. m.- payable March 15, April 15, and Baccala.rueate service. May 15 respectively. The usual The Suppression of Fascism Effects American Universities (~ontinued from Page 1) duty to leaven the general standard of public opinion regarding politics a.nd other intellectual pursuits. Stu- dents sllould endeavor to become leaders in intellectual lines for whtch a liberal education equips them.. Mr. ~myth, who takes Dr. Joseph D. Doty's place while the latter is on a. year's leave of absence, is a graduate of Reed college, and has done graduate work in Harvard wllere he is a candidate for the doc- torate, During the last three years he has been mstructor in history at Princeton. Mr. Smyth was recently in .E:urope where he studied condi- tions in German and Austrian uni- versities. charge <lf $5.00 will be made for this plan of payment. Repeated course fees will not be carried on the in- stallment, but should be paid in full at the time of registration. ANTHONY HOADLEY, Comptroller. Ca1·roll Says Drama Is Art ':Eo Be Done Happily (Continued from Page 1) itself with the characters of the play. On the other hand, the full dramatic effect requires the detach- ment, for \the audience not only feels with the characters but also· sits in emotional judgment on them, for which a certain detachment is necessary.\ Other problems of the director, which Mr. Carroll illu- strated out of classic and current drama, include grouping, color, and stylized acting. VISIT THE ENLARGED TAP ROOM GOLo•s SCHENECTADY'S POPULAR RENDEZVOUS \ HOME FOR -T·H·E CH·,RISTA\AS l2o HOL~DAY 7 rf/211 kmlk 7fou!L ~ QUICKLY muf ECONOMICALLY Don't spoil the thrill of gettil'lg home again by worrying about the shipm,ent of your baggage. Solve the problem by leaving everything to Railway Express. We will call for your trunks, baggage and personal belongings and send iliem home on fast passenger trains through to destination. You can take your train home with peaceofmind-knowing that your baggage will be there quickly and safely, RaUway Express service means economy. We give a receipt on pick-up and take a receipt pn delivery ••• double proof of switt, sure handling. H you cannot go home, send your presents to your family and friends by ~ailway Express. For service or information merely call or telepbonc NEW YORK CENTRAL STATION Phone 4·8512 Sc:hene~tady, N. Y. The best there is in transportatioD SERVING THE NATION FOR 95 YEARS RAILWAY EXPRESS AGEN.CY, Inc. N.ATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE There's something about the fragrance and aroma of a Chesterfield that is pleasing .. and different ( c p 0 S' d ii d d

