Student Council Studies Band 1. . ~i::::~: __ _j ,. Vol. LVII., No. 53 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., 'IlUESDAY, MAY 1, 1934 B d M b A k . Union Graduate Appointed to an . em erS s· . Assistantship in Philosophy' For Support From• . . . d P . Fredertck C. Dommeyer, Jr., 32, Students .afi ress: a residen~ of Schenectady, who is · . !ltuuytng m Europe under an Eng-• --- !ish Speaking Union fellowship, has. • · been aJlpointed to an. Assistantship College Band Satisfied With in Philosophy at Brown University for next year, it W!l.S learned here Director, But Suggest More today. Dommeycr, who was a first honor Coope1-ation on the Campus student in philosophy at Union, was awarded a scholarship to Brown· New Uniforms Suggest That New Uniforms Would Imp1·ove Appearance for 1932--33. At present he is at the ·University of Hamburg where he is' .taking a special course during an eight week's vacation from Oxford., Carroll Explains New Play's Theme \S. S. Tenacity\ Philo..-;ophic llli Idea, Telling of Lives · Of Simple, Evel'yday Folk Saxophone Quartet to_.Play at Prom Messrs. Jefferson, Bailey, Ha.wkins and Procope of Fletcher Henderson's orchesti-a who will play at Junior Prom one :week fmm Friday night. Thi sweel{ is the last opporttmity to }niJ•cliase tickets for six dollars per COU})!e. Dr. Harold Larrabee to Speak At Hunter to Phi Beta Kappa Dr. Harold A. Larrtl!bee, pr-ofes- ,;or of philosophy, has accepted the mv1tation to dellver the annual Phi Beta Kaj}pa address before the Nu· chapter- of Phi Beta Kappa of New tork State, at Hunter College, on May 31. Dr. LarrRibee's subject at the annual dinner of this society will be \Can We Have Standards Without Sno!Ybishne~:~s ?\ Dr. Larrabee is a member of the Alpha chapter of Phi Beta Ka;ppa in Massachusetts, at Harvard. He i,; a former president of the Union College chapter which- is the Alpha chapter of New York State. He is secretary of the Eastern division of the American Philosoph- ICal Association, book editor of the Journal of Philotsophy, and contrib- utor to the Phi Beta Kappa maga- zine, The American Scholar, and also to the PhHosophlcal Review, the New England Quarterly, Books Abi oad, Harvard Graduates' Maga- zine, International Journal of Eth- ics, and to such famous newspaper columns a.s F. P. A.'s \The Conning Tower\ in the New York Herald- Tribune, The members of the band ex- pressed almost unanimous .fSatisfac- tion with their present directol' at a meeting called yesterday by an Investigating eommittee of the Stu- dent Council, although they all felt that some important imJlrovements could be made in the organization of the band. Many pointed out that students had offered little support to the •band, that f1·aternities had discouraged its growth, and that campus publications· had d'One noth- ing to stir up popular interest. \Although It would be unfair to call 'S. s. Tenacity' a strictly farce comedy, its mood is by no means tragic,\ said Director Edward L. Carroll of the Mountebanks Prom production. It is short, dealing with the everyday lives of simple, hum- ble people, and expressing the doc- trine that destiny will draw equally . . , . . Whitney and Ellery Wzllard Alexander s Band C9mpares Banquet Speakers To remedy this situation so·me suggested the apJlointment of a regular publicity agent in the band, a drive to solicit the co-operation of activities committees in the various fraternities, and the establishment oi more incentives to encourage students to join the band. Others believed that the band needs at least two rehearsals a week, a bet- ter place to practice, and more out- of-town trips. A few pointed out that new and: better-fitting uni- forms would greatly improve the appearance of the ·band. It was 'be- lieved by some that membership should rest on a more competitive •basis than at present. A minority- criticized the present director and suggested that an out- side leader could command better discipline and arouse greater inter- est. They suggested that stronger campus support might follow the appointment of a new director. The general results of the meet- ing, however, took the form of a plea for campus support.. It was felt that once the band ceased to ·be a general object of criticism, and once it was looked upon as a primary campus organization, conditions would of themselves im- prove. Someone suggested that a more convenient time for rehearsals would make it pOBsilble for more students to attend. The committee investigating pointed out that it was their in- tention to gather as much campus opinion as possible in order that definite plans may •be made to im- prove the ·band next year. CLASS BLAZERS Well WithLombardoandJan Garher those who attempt to force it and •:that you will consider a return en- those who ao not resist its sum- gagement at the Anchorage in the mons, yet do not actively answer \In answer to your inquiry as re- near future.'' its call.\ gards Willard Alexander it gives Nick Kenny, radio critic of the The philosophical content in this me a great deal of pleasure to say New York Daily Mirror says this 1 h . h · th E 1' h 1 a.bout the band Union is having for p ay, w JC 1s e ng 1s vers on that I believe that you will find b of Sidney Howard from the French its prom: \This is one of the est original of Charles Vildrac, is ex- this orchestra to be one of the big- air programs of the east.\ pressed by the character of an old,' gest attractions that you have ever Willard Alexander's orcheGtra has drunken worltma.n, Hidoux, which had,\ said Art Brown, manager of played at sevet·al· Pennsylvania · 1 d b Ab h s 'th '35 T · G d h d v· dances as a supporting band rus well ts p aye y .ra am m1 , . ant!Ua ar ens, Ric mon , tr- as a feature ,band. His music has The young men in the play who ginia. \Willard I believe has an or- · H pe1•sonify the kinds of people are been very fine on all occasrons. e Bastien, the willful one, played by chestra that compares very favor- reorganized about six months ago Arthur J. Firth, jr., '36, and Segard, ably with and as far as dance rhy- and everyone says his new band is the more easy-going, played by thm is concerned, surpasses both excellent. I have heard it over the GeGrge P. Haskell, '37. Other char- Guy Lombardo and Jan Garber. I Dixie network and personally like acters are Therese, a barmaid, John know that you will be immensely it very much,\ wrote Robert L. B. Dowling, jr., '37, the widow Cor- pleased with his band and we peo- Trascher, chait·man >Of the under- dier, S. Ralph Cohen, '37, an Eng- pie here in Richmond are hoping to graduate council at the University !ish sai!Gr, Paul Wassmansdorf, '34, have him back with us sometime in of Pennsylvania. and a young workman, Richard the future. You can publicize the WRVA Recommendation Diamond, '35. Other workmen and orchestra as being on an equal with B. T. Rapine, program manager sailors are William Bennett and the two bands that I have men- of WRVA, Richmond, Virginia- Robert H. Smith, seniors, and Wil- tioned. You can say- that the or- \Regarding your request for rec- Iiam Miesse, Harold Friedman, and chestra has a marvellous saxophone ommendations as to the merits of Charles Reeves, fershmen. section and a crackerjack brass Will-ard Alexander, I would say that The setting for the play will be outfit. y-ou may rest assured that he will moz·e conventional than have been \In fact the band in every detail take care of your dance in splendid the previous productions of the 6 excellent. When Willard arrives fashion. This orchestra made a big Mountebanks, and has a great ele- in y-our city kindly give him my reputation for itself during its stay ment of realism. It depicts a small personal regards and tell him that here at Tantilla Gardens.\ waterfront restaurant in a French he and his boys will always find a \Regarding Willard Alexander's seaport. A backcloth is being de- . warm spot in the hearts of the orchestra that played here on Sat- signed and painted by Sidney D. pe-ople of Richmond, Virginia.'' urday, April 14, I wish to say that M kma '34 they broadcast over station WIVX, ar n, · Rt'tz Carlton's Opint'on \This is just a line to let you WOl'k on Garnet Progressing ;know how deeply I appreciated the ·work of your band and your per- Satisfactorily Says McNab sonal attention while playing at the Ritz Carlton Hotel here in ' Philadelphia. Everyone was very Work on the 1935 Garnet is pro- well pleased with the music and gressing .satisfactorily according to 'yout· playing for the show. Wishing Duncan S. McNab eclitor-in-.chief of ·you the best of luck and hoping our local Columbia station twice Members of the Junior Class and the yearbook. More than half of sincerely that we will get together all other students who are inter- the copy )las been sent to the again in the fall and assuring you during the evening, The broadcast- ing station advised uts that they re- aeived an enormous amount of let- ters and phone calls complimenting them on the fine program. We also received many compliments from our patrons and they said it is one of the best orchestras we have ever had in Utica,'' said George F. Hale, manager of the Hotel Utica. ested in getthi.g colleg blazers com- ptinter and all of the pictures have ·that I will be glad to recommend Union Debaters Take Part municate with either Doug Smith been talcen. The book will be ready . you to anyone who might inquire or Hank Gulnac at the Alpha Delta for distribution a-bout the last part about your band.\ This Is a quota- ·In Conference at Colgate Phi House, Ph,one 4-6729. of the month. tion from a letter written to Wil- Indian Ladder, Thatcher State Park Carefully Explored By Outing Club lard Alexander from Bert Bell, vice Early Friday morning a Union president of the Ritz Carlton HoteL delegation left Schenectady to at- Stanton Military Academy - tend the New York State Debaters' \While I am no judge of modern Conference at Colgate University. music, the cadets of this school re- The delegates were welcomed at 10 port Willard Alexander's music to tt t th be the best dance music they have o'clock by President <Ju en a e had in five years. No adverse crit!- Colgate Inn, after which a meeting Ellery Will Speak on Semi- Centennial Anniversary of Founding of Sigma Xi Dr. Wlllis R. Whitney, retired di- rector of the· General Electric Re- search laboratories, and Dr. Ed- ward Ellery, acting president of Union College and national secre- tary of the Sigma Xi society, will be the principal :speakers at the an- nual banquet of the Union College chapter of Sigma Xi, Wednesday night, May 2, at the Mohawk Golf Ci ub. Members of Sigma Xi in Schenectady and vicinity are in- vited to attend, provided they make their reservations today with Dr. Frank J. Studer, secretary, at Union College. Dr. Whitney will speak on the \instinct for research\ as it mani- fests itself in nature and is devel- oped in man. Dr. Ellery will ~peak on the semi- centennial anniversary of t'le found- ing of Sigma Xi at Cornell in 1886, The Union chapter is the third chapter established and was founded here in 1887. Sigma Xi is a national honorary society open to stud.ents of marked ability in the scientific or engineer- ing departments. Full membership in the society is, in general con- fined to the faculty, graduate stu- dents, and alumni. Associated mem- bership 1s available for senior can- didates fo-r graduation, and In rare cases, for juniors. Selection is made on the basis of high general scien- tific and engineering ability, par- ticularly as a recognition of prom- ise of ability in research and con- structive independent. work. Those elected to membership this year, Earl R. Arnds, Charles S. Bridgman, Elvin E. Clapper, Joseph B. Cortesi, Harold E. Ellithorn, Frank Gersenich, Samuel Simon, George A.. Moore, Frederlch Turn- bull, William T. Winne, George J. Zippen, H. Vaughn, Julius J. Sitney, John W. Gurry, Robert W. Gurry, Joseph Horvath, and Donald Vroo- man, will be presented. Students To Grade Political Science Courses PRICE FTVE CENTS Students to Grade Political Scien(e Profs and Courses Department Will Give Under- graduates Opportunity for Criticism and Suggestions Questions On All Phases Appraisal of Instmctors and Subjects Asked in Query To find out just what undergrad- uates think of the instruators, courses and textbooks in the Poli- tical Science Department, a com- prehensive questionnaire made up by the department will be given at the end of this week to stua.ents in all political science courses. Similar questionnaires have been given in this department at the end of the academic year two times before, and according to a statement by Prof. A. Gordon Dewey in an inter- view yesterday, the students' im- pressions are valuable enough to warrant the continuance of the de- partmental analysis. The central idea of the question- naire is that the student's impres- sion of the department is made up of a great many small faators. These ordinarily trivial impressions may be learned by answers to a systematic arrangement of ques- tions, covering every possible topic, which may be answered by simple check marks. Covers Many 'roplcs The fifty questions on the test are divided into three ,parts, one part for criticisms of the instruc- tor, one for the courses, and one for textbooks. A part of the ques.tion- naire gi.ves the undergraduates an opportunity for special comment on topics not covered in the preceding questions. On this part in previous years the members of the depart- ment have discovered some smaJl but irritating mannerisms that combined to form the student's gen- eral impression of the Instructor. Students brought to the attention of the professors such habits as rambling and repeating in lectures, and excessive walking about the room, ·and other small matters which are easily corrected. To discover what the students think of the instructor, they are asked if he is too theoretical, too vague, dogmatic, dry; too humorous, sarcastic, sympathetic. They are asked If he follows the assignments too closely, or if he wanders too much, and many similar questions. Concerning the course itself, the students are asked to compare it with other courses in the depart- ment and in the college. They are given a chance to air their views on the subject-matter, quizzes and ex- aminations, outside reading, method of discussion, and textbooks. The students' criticisms are not taken as the sole guide in making up courses and choosing textbooks, but the criticisms are valuable in bringing about changes for the bet- ter In· both courses and instructors. All questionnaires are handed in ananymously. of the general assembly was called c!sms were heard an.d they recom- and a chairman elected. By RICHARD E. PASSENGER mend the outfit highly_;, A. M. . t f Patch, commandant of the Stanton The tax reform commit ee, o A bright sun was warming the Reaching a high perch on the Military Academy wrote this rec- ·which Thomas Crowley, '34, Carl brisk morning air as the Outing trail some of the more ambitious of ommendation to the Junior Prom Olson, '36, and Chester Nessel, '37, Club left South College Sunday the group .began JlUShing rocks and t were members, drew up a report • t ·Commit ee. whic. h was accepted by the general ~e~r~n\~tc~e:r~ai~ ~:;~na lfe~ ~::~~ ~~u{g:r~;ve~f th;r:~l{; '~U::, \Willard Alexander played at assembly. The Union delegates to Dr. Larrabee Reads Poem Entitled 'LafayetteatSchenectady'in Chapel our Junior Prom last week and the public utilities committee, Mil- miles to the south of the city. The still In effect,\ Thls experimenta- every-one was very well pleased H It first part of the journey was made tion !'esulted in a smashed finger with his music. He has a wonderful ton Schwebel, Seymour orow z, in a private car, which bore with for one of the party and after first- h b '3'5 and Clark Cummings, '37, were fortitude the considerable load of aid had been applied, aJI were in orchestra; his saxop one and· rass forced to support a minority -report f . d' h sections are exceptional. I know wht'ch was t'eJ'ected ·by the a·~em- some sixteen hundred pounds o favor of ali 1mnie ~ate June - hat h 'II b bi t ~ f t . t' t e WI • e a g success a bly ·by a vote of 105-102. The JlUbllc students as well as a score o Keen appe 1tes were soon sa ts- \ ld Ml R h 1 d . h d your prom, sa · ss ac e l'!llief committee, of which Robert pounds of steak an lunches. .tied wit individual steaks, broile More, chairman of the band com- S . h , 34 J h A - • 35 The steep climb from Altamont on forked sticks over an open fire mittee for the Junior Prom at Syra- m1t • . o n rgersmger, , was made without difficulty and and seasoned to suit personal tastes. i - h ld and Townley, used a plan advanced h cuse Univers ty which was e · re- by Unt'on as a bn~is for the 1 ·r ~e- the expedition's food was then .After lunc the energetic group tl = • cached so that the rock formations turned to the south and, climbing cen y. Doubles Business port which was accepted by the on the side of the escarpment ·down Indian Ladder, foUnd a beau- assembly. might be ~plored without hind- ,tifill formation of ice, frozen into a The following is a letter to Wll- Friday night a banquet was held ranees. The pa:t'ty made their way cone twenty feet high around the lard Alexa~der from ,Arthur H. Pa- at the Colgate Inn, at which Crow- northward along a ledge i nthe cliff place where the waterfalls strikes dula, presl~ent of the Anchorage ley presided as toastmaster. He in- reached by an iron ladder and in- the hillside after falling from the· Cl~b i~ Faumount Park, Philadel- traduced ·as the first speaker An- spected Haile's Cave, named for the overhanging cliff. M:an.y interesting phxa: Just a few lines to let you drew Kerr, famous Colgate football Albany professor who discovered it ,geological specimens were carried know how much I regret your leav- coach, who gave a hu.morous sketch In 1880. Somewhat farther along, hotne as trophies of a successful ing the Anchorage. While you were in which he brought out the value hands and knees provided ample outing. . here Y<_>U .nearly dq~bled my bus!- of debating. The banquet was for- locomotion and deep grunts sound-. The <luting club is sending three ness wtthm the s~mt space of one lowed by a dance. ed along the path as the hikers delegates to represent the college at month. I have enJ<?Yed a very fine S~turday morning the general as- crawled through \Fat Man's MIS- a convention of the Intercollegiate 'business relationship with you and sembly received a message of con- e-ry,\ a short tunnel on the face of Outing Association to be held' this your band. I feel sure that you ~ill .gratulation from Governor Lehman. th ecllff, scarcely large enough for weelcend near Keene New Hamp- enjoy much deserved success W1th The conference was adjourned at a. ma.n to squeeze through. ablre. ' your present agg-regation and hoiJe 1:80. Union observed the one hun- dredth anniversary of the death of General Lafayette in daily assembly exercises this morning. The famous Frinch military leader visited Sche- nectady In 1778, 1784 and 1835. Dr. Harold A. Larrabee read a narra- tive poem of 280 lines especially written for the occasion. Because daily assembly ceases after Moving Up day, the college celebz·ated the occasion 20 days in advance of its actual date. The ex- ercises formed a part of the nation wide program of observance ar- ranged in co-o,peration with the American Friends of Lafayette, an organization of which Judge Wal- ter P. Gardner Is president and of which Dr. Larrabee is a member. The poem, entitled \Lafayette at Schenectady,'' begins by recalling some of the famous men who have lived anci worked in this city. It then goes on to point out that the city was three times visited by Washington as well as by the French general. After s·ome reflections dealing with the present day hero worship as compared with that of a cen- tury ago, the description of Lafey- ette's final triumphal visit to Sche- nectady ·begins. His memory then recalls his earlier visits, and the rude state of the Mohawk in 1778 and again in 17.84, when he had Vis~ ited Schenectady, and had gone further up the rive!' to treat with the Indians with his \good French gold.'' His reception in front of the City Hall Is then described, together with the banquet at the Givens House and the Masonic ceremonies all culminating in the many afte; dinner toasts. This poem has been privately printed and students wishing copies of it may receive them from Dr. Lanwbee as a gift.

... Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 1, 1934 ~itnsis HOW IS YOUR DEPARTMENT? I :: The attempt of the Political.Science De- I F A R R A G 0 ·11 parbnent to discover what its students think ~=;;;;;;;;=====-;;;;;;;===i=;====•=•= =i;;;;====-!1- of the departmental instructors, courses, and Tracl.tmen · came out the wrbng plation, is the unalloyed desire t extbool s b n f t• · t b ·end of the hose: the Sage of Front for truth, is the very same qua;l- \: , Y mea S 0 a ques 10nna1re 0 e street beeiningly nods, \I told you ity of mind which, in action, is MUSIC by Rankine Hinman \.d Causa Perta Parole .tltaai\ FouNDED 1877 giv.en this week in all its classes, is well so.'' But all in all, it wasn't a bad justice, ati.dl in emotion is that The concert which the T}?.ur.sday . worth bring·ing to the attentiOll of the other Saturday; even the lacrosse team universal love which can be Musical Clul:l and Nelson Eddy gave won. And we seem to have fallen given to all, -a.nd not only to gi\.ssodate~. ~otl~~.int\ !Jrt.S$ ---.-= l9J3 (!i~~~~vi@ 1934 =- The official newspape~tbe students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Foot Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Roi>IDS, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. A.ll other communications to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi P.si Lodge, Union College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg ........... BUBinees :Manager Donald B. Moulton ........... Managing Editor Joseph A. Woolman ..........•.•. News Editor Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor Thornton W. Whipple .... Circulation :Manager :r. Anderson V. Gilbert JUNIOR BOARD R. North A. Stevenson V. Trumbull Issue Editors: R. North, V. Gilbert Reporters Contributing to This Issue :M. Bedell R. Cohen W. Ferguson c. Garrison F. Feldman W. Horstman C. :Marshall R. Passenger c. Nessen N. Stewart TUESDAY, MAY 1, 1934 ONE MEETING NECESSARY There has not been a meeting of the stu- dent body since March 26. On November 27 the student body voted to hold its meetings on alternate Mondays throughout the college year. There has been no lawful legislation made that there should be no meeting for four consecutive weeks. departments in the college. . heir to a baH team after an these those who are judged useful or · last week was the most enjoyable years. A team with two pitchers!· admirable, Thus contemplation of that organization's series which The Concordiensis questionnaire given to - As for tennis, well ... it's a nice enlarges not only the objects we have yet heard. A more per- th t d ·t b d l t F b l d th t game: we like it a lot. And Keats of our thoughts, •but also the feet balance of parts than the clu,b e s u en O Y as e l'Uary revea e a won a mat<.!h, mirabile dictu! objects of our actions and our in some departments there are certain • * * affections: it makes us citizens has had in recent year.!;! was par- Th t f · d of the universe, not on. ly of one particularly gratifying, for a courses and certain instructors which. are e cus omary r:oar o Ire an pain from the caged lion of the· walled city at war with an the . Woman's chorus .seldom has suffi- dragging down the standard of those de- gym whenever some sucker has rest. In this 'Citize11ship of the • cient strength in jts ·seconc;l alto h t k f · · t universe consists man's true rt t H th d t t . . nerve .enoug o as. or eqmpmen. • section. The plend of voices was·un- pa men s. ow are e epar men s gomg swell situation--any normal guy freedom, and his l:iberation to find these facts for their own usei Do will go through four years of col- from the t4ralldom of narrow , usually fine in this concert, a few lege without changing a towel' hopes and fears.\ sopranos obtruding in only otie they expect th.e students to come directly to rather than face that epileptic in- • ... • ' number, Eugene Hild!!:ch's d,rama;. the head of the department and say out- vective. Kind of tough on the sick- tic \Spring\ which completed thei·r souled athlete, the fellow who' Friend: Ferdinand Helm did yeo- right that this course or that professor is hasn't developed a comeback in the man duty ·by the phlegmatic Far- portion of the pr-ogram. doin~ the department and the students more .gutter palaver. , rago (say it fast), and .submitted The club's diction and re~;ponsive- ~ * * * , these squi•bs for your consideration: ness to the baton were as excellent harm than good'? Or that some particular Norm Kitching's Mont Pleasant Why is Sunday? as they have been in former years. d d t t t S unday · lb • s t The distinctness of their diction textbook is more ·confusin~ than helnfu·l -:~. la s coppe · ·wo i les at the Penn 1s a coma e.ween a ur- ~ l:' Relays: not too awfully bad. Wass- day's gin and! Monday's hangover. was particularly notiQeable in the A knowledge of these facts is unmistak- mansdorf still thinks the Butler Sunday is an excuse for ecclesias- vivacious numerations of \Twenty slap was a swell joke; Farrago and tical epigrams-\the ethics of des- Eighteen\ and in the major work ably of much importance in keeping Up the former-Editor Cory are frowned peration,\ etc. of the evening, the Norse tale of standing of the departments and hence of the upon for ta:kin.gthe \kid\ seriously. Sunday is a day when libraries .\Thyre the Fair.\ * • * are closed and churches are open. We especially enjoyed their ran- college. But are the departments making The administration, with custom- Sunday is a day when one can ditions of Bizet's \Agnus :Bei,\ and 1' d d practice intellectual democracy-go ·two numbers in that soft, floating earnest attempts to uncover whatever weak- ary ma 1 ce, eman s 15 dol~ars to a Young People's society and ex- style m which the club is heard at ($15) from us de-moneyed Semors · · nesses there may be present? right in the midst of Proin layouts. press opinions of no value about its best, \The Blue Bird,\ and \By . And $ 15 , may I complain, puts a things of no importance. a Bend in the River.\ The ecclesias- Perhaps the departments are restmg com~ mild cramp in the roll of a $4 a To chang-e the supject: Journal- tical number was presented with a k I lofty dignity which women's voices fortably assured that there's nothing wrong wee wage-s ave. Inci~entally, an ism is finding a fact and telling d t 1 . · awful lot of tea and diplomas can enough lies llibout it to make it in- 0 no· a ways achieve. An ·organ With them. Here, however, is a concrete ex- he had for $2,700. Maybe they fig- teretSting to the average r-eader. accompanbnent furnished the neces- h h sary bass. The swinging rhythm ample of what may be going on in other de- ~eee~. e;~:S 1 1 b~~\~ilj~~na ~~~i~~~= ~c~ ~~o~~;~et;';it:oum~:~~~~es~~e i~~ and slight pauses of \By a Bend in partments: In the Physics Department there ary measure; allow us to start life finding the same face every morn- the River,\ which could easily have \th t t · k d · b h\ been overdone, were carefully l ·s a C ta· , h. h . t l ·w1 ·ou a cen m our poe ets: a - mg e md the smoke of the burnt J·udged and smoothly executed. er Ill COUrse W lC lS ex reme Y un- versity makes heroes of us all, and toast. satisfactory to the large maJ· ority of students stuff like that. And to close with something good Mr. Eddy's voice has developed in G texture even since last yea:~;\ when in it. This department has lon~ been re- * , • · · · ·B. Shaw: \I believe in mor- we were very much pleased with ~ From the word according to ality. You draw a line and make 't E h d d f th b t th 1 • ven more t an by the full, vi- gar e as one 0 e es at Union Ct>llege. Russell: listen, ye heathens: 0 er .people stand on it. That's b t B h \Th m· d hi h h b morality!\ ran ' yet pure quality of his voice, ut w en nearly all the students in a par- e . m w c as ecome Exit Helm however, we were inpressed by the accustomed to the freedom and combination of straight-forward sin- ticular course are thoroughly dissatisfied impartiality of philosophic con- * * * cerity and modest reserve which with that course, the bad impression spreads templation will preserve some- Phrase-coiner Burg pops out with characterized his interpretations. thing of the same freedom and this one-\as· cold as a twitchet.\ He displayed discriminating taste in over the campus, and has its effect in influ- impartiality in the world of ac- AnY'body ever seen a twitchet? Cap- every number, never pecoming too . tion and emotion. It will view tain Chrysler, would\be nephalist, dramatic, never sentimental At encmg prospective students for that course its puvposes and desires as nur.ses a peeve; the chatter has times, it is true, his restraint to chanO'e thel'r plans The poor opl·n 10 • n a .parts of the whole, with the a,b- him painted as a tennis-playing seemed a bit too marked, b.ut we o · m Y sence of 1·ns1'stence that results \ \ D h f rth I spong-e. amn t e catter anyway! beli~ve he will acquire a haPPY even go a er. t may even make some from seeing them as infinites- Mr. Eugene Bagger speaks of a med1um of expressiveness. In the Sub f h d ·d t I h imal fragments in a world of Mid-Western bllBiness man: \This popular encores with which he , - ers men eCI e 0 go e sew ere. which an the rest is unaffected wretch had served s1'x out of a 1 d t c ose he concert his style became Examination of a department's instructors, by any one man's deeds. The term of nine months of hard Eu- considerably easier, especially in impartiality which, In contem- rope and: was utterly misern•ble \ the 11' k\ 't f G'lb courses, and textbooks by the students will ~ · · · Sulll~~~c mg WI 0 1 ert and go far in making the department healthie1· OH 1 HEARD WITH THE REAR END OF A When Mr. :ijlddy announced his and Union College stronger, TROLLEY AND COME OuT encores with \we are now going to BEST. And how about keeping the do for you ... \ he paid his accompa- INTRAMURAL SPORTS cars on the rails? Maybe the bus- ni.st a well deserved tribute. Mr, fever got ,the motorman, BUT Paxson, who uses no notes, is the NF..:XT THING WE KNOW THE most remarkable and accomplished TIDNGS WILL DELIVER US accompanist we have ever heard. RIGHT IN THE FRONT HALL He plays as one with the singer· Everyone agrees that attendance at stu- dent body meetings has fallen off to a dis- graceful level in the past year. This is not because students show little interest in their own affairs; student body affairs have been running rather smoothly. We feel that when The most extensive intramural athletic We seem to keep picking on the Economics Department. This time the story is that Professor Bennett has a small battery of little electric sunbowl heaters directed on his feet. Not a bad idea, at that, but the reason? Sophomore schedules or the gold standard? ••. ALL FOR ONE NICKEL. atthough he is never obtrusive h~ • ,.. ,.. makes their performance the 'mu- there are new campaigns or any business program .ever witnessed at Union has been that affects the entire student body, under- conducted this year under the direction of graduates have little attraction to attend Coaches Nelson Nitchman and Elliott Hat- such meetings. But, there is no one who has field. Both of these men have devoted a the power to override legislation of the stu- good deal of their time to supervise the dent body such as has been done for the past proper functioning of these programs. few weeks. The value of such athletic activity lies in • * • In our rambles among poets and intellectuals we ran into a big sugar man-who affects pince-nez (noseglassestoyou) and gets away with .smoking in class. Nothing like a headplay for the intervals be- tween the intervals between classes. In a last dying gasp, we CALL tually finished product which it FOR THE CAMPUS POLICE. should be. In Mr. Derridt the Three very young, but in their eyes Thursday Club also has an unusual- very mature, females wandered ly conscientious and able accom• onto our fair campus Friday, and panist who contributes a great deal amused themselves by JUMPING to the quality of their work. UP AND DOWN SO THEY COULD SEE ~T ~NT ON -~~~~==~~~~==~~ IN THE CLASSROOMS~ This is fine exercise for sweet young things at this .Ume of year, but what of we who are trying to CONCEN- TRATE ON SOME VERY INTER- ESTING LECTURE? Is nothing sacred •t Why, I woUldn'.t be sur- Notes On Our It is urgent that at the next meeting of the fact that so many undergraduates are the student body, even if only a handful of thereby enabled to participate in athletic undergraduates are present, a motion should endeavors which otherwise would close their be made that student body meetings he pol'tals to most students as far as action called at the discretion of the president of with the varsity squads is concerned. Dr. the Student Council. In that way a meeting Frank Parker Day, retil!ed president, always would he called only when there would be a held high regard for athletics and one of his necessity for one. The business to be put mottoes as president of this college was under consideration c.ould be announced in 'Athletics for All.' the previous issue of The Concordiensis so We do not mean here to repeat the advan- that undergraduates would be aware of what tages of participation in athletic activity for was going to happen. every student has heard those advantages * • * To quote last week's Concordy, ·'this year the gym will be a J'ap- anese garden.\ Well, well, well. Bailey Hall will be Vers!:!-illes ... South College will be the Taj Mahal . , . Fred Parks will be Henry the Eighth , .. spring wil •be here .. , and I'll think of something nice to say- • * * prised if . , • INCHWELL. ---o--- Middlesex Notes The football-goal-tearer-downers, Well, Farr:agQ, old pal, I try to otherwise known as the students of keep away from names-but it isn't Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, very hard to find out whom I refer held their great sQGi:al affair, the to if you get around at all. You Sophomore Soiree, last weekend. know, in dealing with some of this, Brilliant, dazzling, stupendous, and I have to be a litUe more subtle all other movie adjectives·. The Contemporaries The Voice of Experience Somewhat chilling the ardor of the pa<.!itl.sts of the University of New Hampshire, Charles H. Pettee, eighty-one year old dean, has just come out with a statement that pacifism, being directed against the compulsory R. 0. T. C. at that school, \Has no appeal to common than a burlesque show. Soiree took up Friday night, and sense.\ A regular meeting was .supposed to have before. But, we do hope that the tax com- been held on April 16. That meeting was mittee will find the means to support another passed by because the student body presi- extensive intramural program next year. * • * Saturday night the various houses Using the police force as an ex- Poor old Wassmansdorf. HE was held their own dances. ample, the Dean attempted to show reviled in no untertain terms in the These latter were indifferent af- that such a body of men is of no last issue. But the write1' of that fairs varying with the houses. The use unless supported by the fo.rce, article either had a super-imagin- way to tell a good dance was t9 see moral and physical, of the· citizenry'. ation or was stretching it a bit. how many Union men were present. He then extended the thought to EVEN I CAN'T PI<! T U R E About a dozen of our creamiest cover international affairs. Consid., WASSMANSDORF WALKING plus Bill Dehey's ver.satile gang . ering he had e5tablished enough ex- THROUGH THE BLA.CK FOREST made the Delta Phi's a visitable ceptions to pacifist principles, he dent deemed it unwise to hold one in the face of such small attendance. Another meet- ing was due yesterday, but still no meeting was held. We understand that the Student Council is trying to formulate a plan for next year's student body meetings. That is fine and we are certain that the final plan will be of similar nature to our suggestion above for members of the Student Council are of the same opinion. But, until such a plan is presented, it is the duty of either the presi- dent or the vice-presid~nt of the student body and its secretary to be in the Old Chapel on alternate Mondays to go through the formalities of a meeting. There always will be a handful of students present who will listen to the minutes of the previous meeting. Just one meeting is necessary, and that can be called for next Monday and the stu- dents at that time can ·vote on the proposi- tion of abolishing regular student body meet- ings. It has just occurred to us that the nomina- CLAD IN A BEARSKIN •.• and place. The Theta Chi's actually reached the peale of his argument. he probably would h:ave used the turned down some well-meaning \That is why pacifism has no ap- tions for the Sophomore Board of the Stu- hammer on the ancestors of all EN- but extemporaneous guests because peal to common se!lSe. If there is dent Council are in the complete charge of GINEERS. * \' • of the lack of formal attire, which a single exception, there is no ATTENTION NORTH AND GRISWOLD indicates that even R. P. I. has pre- .longer a principle, and .straight Messrs. Robert North and Guy Griswold. Our newshawk-correspondentwho tensions to glory. thinking requires that a per.son op- Thel~e is one thing that can ruin the Stu- covers the Five-and-Tens dQwn on • • * posed to :fighting decide on the the great? white? way bring.s us necessity at any given time and not dent Council in a year. Fraternity politics, bad reports; very, very bad. It A tip: R. P. I. men are electing, a base his decision on an absolute th seems rthat some of the boys fi:ri.d it Grand Marshall in the next few principle laid down beforellimd. once ey come in, Will cause the council to necessary to purchase this and that, days. Our candidate is Bud Saw- \The real ·q1,1estion at issue is far break up. and a lot of other things they don't yer, who, you will remember, made broader and more important than 1 need ... which is all fine ~d good. two spectacular touchdowns against pacifism. It involves the question Now et us suppose that one or the other .•. BUT WHY THE LINGERING Union last fall. Well, after the of real living. f th .1-.. OVER THE COUNTER. ? Wh th. election occurs the rawest, wildest, o e ~,w-o members of the class of 1936 · · · Y e d f\ th. t \Real living is approaching, not subtle \What's your NAME, and an il ze.s goings-on that your h' 'd T should try to push a fraternity brother into what's YOUR PHONE NUMBER?\ imagination ever dreamed of. If reac 1 Iig 1 eals. here are ·thou- you want to see Life with a great sands of ideals in the world and a nomination for next year's Sophomore What we need is is lJUreau, or a big capital \L here's your chance. they are constantly clashing with club, or perhaps THERE OUGHT I 1 each other. There is no ideal as Board of the council. If he does, he had bet- TO BE A LAW. 0 ~c:-~!~~Y ~~u ~~~e~£ ~~~ct~~~ high as to supercede all others aJl ter choose a man who is worthy of the re- * • \' often seen inside the Terrace wan. of th~ time. Rather it is the .duty Friend Baker \Exposes Slot Ma- Ditty, not original, but clev!)r: and the privilege of the trained sponsibility and the honor; otherwise he.will chine Fraud.\ Looks sort of ex- Oh, moon, lovely moon, with thy mind to destroy no ideals, but pal- be branded by the undergraduates as noth perienced-like • to . us, and SOME- bee-yut-1-ful face, ance conditionS as they arise ail.d - ONE WE KNOW MUST HAVE careering through ol!t the bound- support the ideal which good judg- ing more than a politician and a fraternity PUT A LOT OF NICK1iJLS IN ar-ies of space, ment dictates. booster. ~~T~£;;;,~?? FIND OUT ALL Whenever I see thee, I think in my \No ideal should ever become a' mind; selfiSh standard. Peace is far from We shall await the nominations for the • • • ·Shall I ever, oh ever, see thy be-. the highest ideal. It. is Often the Sonhomore Board with inter.est. Well, .the Betas finally lost theh' hind. most selfish one;'' ~ Chrysler. YOU CAN'T PLAY TAG P. W. S,.R. G.· ! ! ! I I i' First ~ Univ Dian Althot ball tea1 Saturcia: sity of ter, the its hits feat th1 Brinker, ter, a!l1 GUY Gr was nic This third w was Un chester seasons. Union when F ond, an rison's : lied !by Semera< gle. Roo the :eigl Unio11 Fioz•.e, Garriso Cadw:rl Semera Loomis, Griswol Stevens Dain, 1 Clark,' Total RO<lh McCon' Skinne1 Fisher, Stewar De mba· Exter, Derby, Haak, Brinke Total Union Roches Two· bases- ner. D ter; 1.1 out~B Bases Brinke Golf1 Ham In t1 season sustaii the he Hamil' to 0. the be when· in one holes, Julh 1933 g Dune· green while· reachE wast' Christ carrie Ton team the M home Middl 1933 c ed th1 u Eldw mer, defeat ern, J and 3 Lange IUd11 defeat w. (}, feated Mac Fro Th1 cessf1 urda~ over high led tl Du the 1 hold term rami C•1UlE Th A cad Satu aftez 4:30 Til Poa, G p CP 1D 2D c lA. 2A. IH OH Re

a s- n- in A.t nt in to he it eal of of hat the ex- no to d., ex- be ap- is no op- the not not hou- and all duty bal- and ac the ·G,· I ! i i' i e···. I I ' ! I I i. i' THE OONOORDlENSIS, TU:ESDAY, MAY 1, 1934 ;Garnet Baseball Team Beats Yellow Jacket Nine 2 to 1 ON. ALEXANDER FIELD By Netmen Gain-Even Varsity Ten Wins Break in Two Meets From Tufts College GEORGE R. CORY, JR. Purple Takes Track \Injm'ies about the face is where ONE WHO KNOWS Defeat Middlebury, 5-4, Lose To Jeffmen, 8-1; St11oebel, Keats, and Roberts Star Captain Role Game Foote Plays SteJ.lar in Fast Lacrosse Saturday Afternoon First Victory for Union Over University of Rochester on Diamond in Three Yeat's Meet by 25 p·. OI•nts. the lacrosse players usually get it. Almost every year a couple of the ___ ' stlCkmen get a couple of front The Garnet netmen managed to Captain Chauncey Foote, playing ; teeth knocked out. &Jme of the earn an even break in the first com-. at the outside home position, Although the Union College base- Strong Williams Team T!•t'ms: boys have had some pretty tough petition it has had on the clay - t h ld t f' h'•~ i ,_ h proved to be the star of the Ia- ball · earn was e o · !Ve 1..., n K· etz's Runttel'S, ·BUI'ton I . facial injuries already this season .. cour..., over t e week-end. On Fri- Saturciay's game with the Univer-. . , S; Yeu can sew up a man~s head day Amherst trounced Coach Ayde- crosse team in the opening home sitY of Rochester nine at Roches- . High Scorer for U·nion: without much trouble, brrt of course lotte's racquet-wielders, 7 1 f, to H2, contest of the 1934 season against ter, the Garnet managed to ibunch · 1t is hard to !'eplace teeth.\ • and on Saturday nosed out Middle- Tufts on Saturday, the final score its hits to score two runs, and de- It is better that 1 do not mention bury, 5 to 4, thus repeating their th Y 11 J k t 2 t 1 1933 t ! of which was 11 to 5 in favor of the feat e e ow ac e s, o .. By GEORGE R. CORY, ,JR. , my informant's name, but he r umph over the Vermont Brinker, who pitched for Roches- Clearly outclassed by a .strona· knows what he is talH;ing about. 1 team. Dutchmen. Foote played a stellar ter, allowed •but rive hits, while Williams College track team th: do not want to use th 1s column to Amherst, with several stalwart game and led the players of both Guy Griswold, the· .Garnet hurler, Garnet runners lost the onl\'meet' start campaigns about anything, sophomores who forced the veter- teams in scoring by accounting for was nicked for eight. \ but a few facts here won't d ny ans to lower positions on the team ThiS . game gave the Garnet its they are expected to drop this sea-· 0 a five goals. · b 80 t 55 · t s t · harm than they enJ· oyed last year, came Three Pi, Psi Upsilon vs. Kappa Alpha, Alpha Phi Delta vs. Delta Upsilon. Tommorrow: Noon-Phi Delta Theta vs. Lambda Chi .Alpha., Sigma Phi vs. Phi Gamma. Delta, Chi Psi vs. Kappa Sigma, Delta Chi vs. Neutrals. Evening-Theta Nu Epsilon vs. Slg· ma Chi, Beta Theta PI vs. Mpha Delta Phi, Kappa Alpha vs. Theta Delta Chi, Delta Upsilon vs. Phi Sigma Delta. Thw·sday, May 3: Noon-Sigma Chi vs. Lambda Chi Alpha, Alpha Delta Phi vs. Phi Gamma Delta, Theta Delta Chi vs. Kappa Sigma, Phi Gamma Delta vs. Neutrals. Evening-No night games. Friday, May 4: Noon-Theta Nu Epsilon vs. Phi Delta Theta, Beta Theta Pi vs. Sigma Phi, Kappa Alpha vs. Chi Psi, Delta Upsilon vs. Delta Chi. HORSESHOES thl '·rd w 1 ·n· 1 ·n. as many starts, and son Y an ° coun · a m·day · Bus Will1'ams wa~ a tower of C h K tz '11 tak h' to Schenectady with one of the ~ Was Un ion_ •s first victor.y ov. er Ro- oac e WI e IS squad to' Spaulding wants $15 each for fi t streneth on defense, stopping many H 'Ito to ee·t th B ff d nest eams they have ever pos- ~ chester on the di·amond in thr.ee . a:J% 1 fin 1 .. m , e u an Blue masks fo1· lacrosse players. sessed. Winston has fine form and onru_shes by the opponents. The ',l'oday: seasons. .m e na away meet of the sea- Such a price is pretty high, seems headed fm· the top. With playmg of. Van Waldro~ and Ed Evening-Delta Phi vs. Chi Psi, U . ni'on sc\red . 1 ·.n the fl'·rst 1 ·nn 1 ·ng·. son. The CC>ntinentals are weak this but some oth. er · institutions Barna point and goalie re pee ~ d t t d the added experience of two more • . s ·' Phi Delta Theta vs. Phi Sigma When . Fl'ore was walked·, stole ~ec-' year, an are no expec e to cause 'have found a way to get tively was particularly noteworthy ~ th u · · h t b years of inter-collegiate competi- . . ' . · ' Delta, Theta Nu Epsilon vs. and, and crossed the plate on Gar- e man runners muc rou le. around that. The Army makes tion, he ought to take his place m vtew of tile fact that neither had. Kappa. Sigma, Neutrals vs. Beta rison's single. Another run was tal- In the first place, Union had to its own masks at a cost of among the leaders of the East. played the game before 1934. Theta Pl . lied !by Union in the fifth when concede the Purple nine points in $1.60 a piece. Cornell has some Manning, another sophomore who Bracken, the outstanding member semer.ad scored on Griswold's sin-· the hammer-throw. Under the New arrangement whereby the stick- is Winston's doubles partner, also of the visitors' team opened the TommolTow: gle. Rochester got its lone tally in! ~ngland I. C. A. A. rules, this event men have their .faces protected has fine form. He is quick of foot scoring in less than three minutes Noon-Delta Phi vs. Theta Delta the •eighth frame. The score: IS used. In the I. C. A. A. A. A. at a cost of about $4.00. I and his repertoire of strokes was after the opening whistle was' Chi, Alpha Phi Delta vs. Delta Union AB'R H PO A E. rules, the event is not included haven't asked any of our play- amazi:pg. Bill owen, captain of the blown and repeated this perform-' Chi, Delta Upsilon vs. Phi Sigma FiOI•.e, Zb ........ 4 1 1 3 3 o. most of the time. ers what they tbinlt about all Sabrina netmen who played num- ance .three minutes later. Fraser Delta, Beta Theta Pi vs. Phi G · f 4 o 1 3 o o Charley Krull, after winning his tllis, but it would seem safe to ber three singles, had things his was the first Garnet stickman to· Gamma Delta. arriSon, r · · · · · · · · say that they would appreciate E · Cadwallader, 3b .. 4 0 0 1 1 0 heat in the 100 yard dash, pulled a little more protection. own way in defeating Cohen, 6-1, toss the ball into the opponents' • venlng-Alpha Phi Delta vs. Delta semerad, cf . . . . . 4 0 1 1 0 0 up lame in the finals, and took a 6-1. net, doing so after ten minutes and Phi, Delta Upsilon vs. Delta Chi, Loomis, lf ........ 3 0 0 1 0 0 third. The same injury kept him A GOLF TEAM SOME DAY? Captain Plays No. 3 fifteen seconds of play. From that Theta Nu Epsilon vs. Sigma Chi, GriSW()ld, p . . . . . . . 4 0 1 1 6 0 out of the 220 where he was also 0 1 d b . 3 time on right through the whole of Kappa Nu vs. Theta Nu Epsilon, st 3 o o 2 1 0 e pe ted to plac It has been the fond hope of wen P aye num er one m 1 93 • the second period, Union made a Phi Gamma Delta. vs. Lambda D eyenson, c . . . . . . 3 .1 1 1 6 1 x c e. some undergraduates that we may but the eligibility of \\Tinston and succession of goals which was inter- Chi Alpha, am, ss ....... · · · Emory Burton superceded Cap- Meldrum, the latter being J'unior Clark lb 4 0 0 14 0 0 t · Al T h' h have a golf team that can win a rupted only ·once when Bracken , · .... · ... · a1n ec urner as· rg scorer for champion of Cleveland, pushed Bill Total ~ 33 2 5 27 17 2 th t T k' t' f fi t · match once in a while some_ day. scored another for Tufts in the Thursday, May 3:. Noon-Phi Delta Theta vs. Theta Delta Chi, Delta Chi vs. Chi Psi, Phi Sigma Delta vs. Alpha Phi Delta, Neutrals vs. Sigma Chi, Lambda Chi Alpha vs. Kappa Sigma. ~ . . . . . . . . . . . · e mee . a ·Jng a 1e or rs .m Into a lower ranking. u PO E th 1 ult d th h' h · TheN are two freshmen who are middle of the .second period. At the Rochester AB R ....-.. · A · e P 0 e va an e Ig JUmp d b f Johnny Roberts was the onlv d f th' ri d th 3b 5 0 0 2 . 5 0 d s d · th b d · repute to· e go! e!'S of some abil- J en o · IS pe o e score stood McConville, • · · an a ecot;t m e roa JUmp ity. Doug Stewart, '32, who was Garnet man able to score a victory at 8 to 3 in favor of Union. Skinner, ss . . . . . . . 5 1 1 1 2 1 gave the Garnet sophomore 11 d t d th t h h .. _ t 0 0 1 0 0 · ts T th 220 .captain-manager of the golf team an ° 0 a e was pus e...- o Tufts c d d · h ld' C h Fisher, If ...•..•• 4 pom . urner, won , e low three sets. The third doubles· match su cee e m o mg oac Stewart, cf . . . . . . 4 0 2 3 0 0 . hurdles, took second in the highs du~ingh his last ydar here now has was stopped because of darkness Harkness' men scoreless during the Demback, 2b ..... 4 0 0 2 3 0 and third in the high jump for a a rot er in the hi Psi Lodge who with the score at 9-9 in the third third period, but during the final Exter, :Lb ........ 4 o 1 10 o o total of nine. is said to be able to shoot with t R b rt d C h period Captain Foote went wild, ,_, f 4 0 2 1 0 1 consistency in the high 70s. Ralph se · o e s an o en were play- sco · g th al t b · h' Dev .... y, r · ' · · ' · · Breaks Two 'Dnnnrds ing this match for Union. nn ree go s 0 nng IS Haak, c . . . . . . . . . . 3 0 1 6 1 1 ... ..,.,., Thatcher, another frosh, is rated as total for the day up to five. Brinker, p ....... 3 0 1 1 0 0 Leon Naguzewski knocked off the a 2 handicap man out in Spring- Roberts Stars The summ.a.ry: T tal 36 l 8 27 11 3 , d' d · tl f 30 field, Ohio. With these two divot o s . . . . . . . . . . · ISCUS recor Wlt:ll a 1row o 1 It was R<>berts again who starred P·os. Union Tufts . 0 0 feet 8% inches. The former I'ecord diggers coming up, we may have f G B Umon ...... , ........ 100 10 OQ-2 a golf team in a year or so. or the Garnet in the Middlebury arna . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . McArdle Rochester ........... 000 000 OlD-1 was held by Oswald Johnson, '32. tilt. He won both his singles and ZD Smith · .. · · ·· · .. · ..... · .... Kaup He also bettered his own mark in doubles matches and holds the dis- .tD Williams ' · '· · '· · · · · · · · • Johnson Two-base hits~Semerad·. Stolen th h t t 'th t f 41 t A'.r THE BASEBALL GAME . CP M,cNab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Poi trois bases- Fiore, Dain, Garrison, Skin- e s 0 pu Wl a oss o fee tinction of being the only undefeat- P Waldron ............ , . Maynard ner. Double plays-Skinner to Ex- 6% inches. Some of the fans at the ed Union player. He made his first C Fraser . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Duncan ter; McConville to Exter. Struck Dave Gregory, crack Purple dis- Union-Rochester baseball game start of the season against Amherst 2 .A. Oppenheim ............... Healey t n G . Id 2 B . k 6 tance man was hard pressed to were taking Da.ve Cadwallader on Friday. George Stroebel con-. lA Mowei' ................. Redshaw ou ~Dy r1swo · , . rm er , for a ride on Saturday. Our . t OH Foote ........ , ...... : . , , Kulesis Bases on balls-Off Griswold 3, beat Ed Bastedo in the two mile third baseman got a little hot tmued o play a stellar game and IH Bergman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Braeken Brinker 5. Umpire-Sandusky. run. Bastedo ran the distance sev- d made short work of defeating Tier- Score by periods .. era! seconds better than he ever un er the collar and shouted ney, 6-4, 6-3. Teamed up with, Jack has before, but he was not quite in \Aw keep quiet, you bnnch of Moffett, sophomore star a year ago Union ... · .............. 3 5 0 3-11 Golfe1·s Whitewashed By Hamilton in First Match the same class as his rival. Gildo rubes.\ This remark didn't get but now handic&,pped by a lame Tufts -.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 1 1 1 - 5 Mirate took third in this race, over at all, because somebody hip, .this doubles team took the first Substitutes: Union; Elwyn, Pur- in the stands hollered back, set of their match, but were unable chase, Honan. Tufts; Mobel, Hubbard, Bob Gottschalk and Apey Wal- \Y , th t t Jed thers tied for first in the mile run, ou cant get away wi. ha ; to continue th~ pace and were de- s' I th Ope i If t h f th we all lmow where you come feated 5- 7 , 6- 3 , 6- 3 . coring-First period :Bracken, 2 :15; n e n ng go rna c o e nosing out their Purple opponents Bracken, 5:20; Fraser, 10 :15; Oppen· season the Garnet divot-diggers in the last few yards. from!\ Yes, Casey comes from Flagg was outstanding for the heim, 11 :35 ; Foote, 12:01. Second sustained a severe whitewashing at Palmyra which is just outside · ·t · · h' · 1 t h period: O'J)penhelm, 2:55; Oppenheim, the bands of Union's arch rival, The big surprise of the day was of Rochester, and nobody ever ;lSI orcs, wmniCng Is smg es rna c 3 :13 ; Braclren, 8 :25 ; Fraser, s :40; Hamilton College, by a score of. 6 the performance of Jack Ross in said that this place was a me- hrom apbtain hrysler and winning Foote, 13 :20; Bergman, 14 :10. Third th t 'I Aft tt' ff tropolis. is dou les match with Tierney period: Duncan, 7 :15. Fourth period: to 0. The closest score was that of · e quar er ml e. er ge mg 0 · ff F t o 30 F 1 50 to a r t rt th Alb agamst Mo ett and Stroebel. • oo e, : ; oote, : , Healey, 5 :05; the bes •t ball 1'n the fi·rst foursome· ve Y poor s a • e any Foote 14 50 R f G S rth h t I d d For the second time in three Union-Middlebmy su~~ar 1 ·es • : · e eree: I'een, wa - when the Garnet golfers came with· sop omore pu on a ot of spee an .. ~·- more. Judge of play: Barrett, Penn in one stroke of a tie after eighteen came in second. ganles, Ralph Semerad made the Singles-Plagg, Middlebury, defeated State. 'rime of periods: 15 minutes. final put-out of the game. Back in Chrysler· 6 3 6 4· !'\'eats Un'on de --------------- holes of play. The Williams track is not a quar- • - • · · ... • 1 • - the Middlebury contest, our prize feated LaForce, 6-3, 6-2: Rudd, Middle- Julius Hummer, captain of the ter mile track, and the Union run- outfielder took a fly while resting bury, defeated Cohen, 6-4, 6-4; Stroe- ·r.==============::'t 1933 golfers, pressed his, opponent, ners had difficulty judging their on his ear to end the g-ame. Sat- bel, Union defeated Tierney, 6·4, 6·3; Dune· Edwards, to the sixteenth distances, although it is doubtful d , Roberts, Union, defeated Holmes, 6-4, INTRAMURAL LEAGUES wh th th' f t d h d'f ur ay s fly was right in his hands, 6-3; Brown, Middlebury, defeated War· green where the victory was a<:ored e er IS ac ma e muc 1 - however, and was the only ball that ner, 3-6, 7-5, 6-1. while· .Joe Horvath, acting. captain, ference in the final score. was hi·t ,·n his d1'rection all after- Doubles-Flagg and Tierney, Middle- l';:=============o!J reacll.ed the 17th green. The match The summaries: noon. bury, defeated Moffett and Stroebel, -. was the first one in which Bill 100 yard dash-Won by :Kremer 5-7, 6-3, 6-3: Chrysler and Keats, Christian, '35, and· Bob Langer, '36, (W) ., Van Zan ten_ (W), second·, UMPIRING, ETC. Union, defeated Rudd and LaForce, · d u • • 1 1 6-2, 6-4 ; Roberts and Fox, Union, de- carrie · mons aure s. Krull (U), third. Time-0:10.1. A feated Holmse and Brown, 7-5, 6-3. Tomorrow afternoon the golf good many times this year, Schedule Evening-No night games. Friday, May 4: Noon-Delta Chi vs. Theta Delta Chi, Phi Delta Theta vs. Delta Upsilon, Lambda Chi Alpba vs. Sigma Chi, Beta Theta PI vs. Kappa Nu, Neutrals vs. Phi Gam- ma Delta. You are no better than our advertisers ... they patronize your paper. team will enconnter Middlebury at 220 yard c1ash-Won by :Kremer Union teams have come back from Union-Amherst Summaries the Mohawk Golf Club, in its first (W); Van Zan ten (W), second; out of town contests with both Singles-Winston, Amherst, defeated home match. Riccio, captain of the Wheeler (W), third. Tirrte-0:23.6. coaches and players complaining •Chrysler, 6-0, 6-2; Meldrum, Amherst, M . bitterly about the dirty deal they defeated Keats, 6-3, 6-2; Owen, Am- Middlebury team, is its star. In the 1le run-Tie for first between herst, defeated Cohen, 6-1, 6-1; Ma- BASEBALL Tuesday, May 1: Evening-Kappa Nu vs. Theta Nu Epsilon, Delta Phi vs. Beta Theta 1933 contest the Vermonters defeat- Walther (U) and Gottschalk (UJ; have received from various officials. houy, Amherst, defeated Stroebel, 6·0, ed the Garnet by a 6 to 0 score. McVeigh (W), third. Time-4:39.9. It would seem that since this has 6-8, 6-1; Roberts, Union, defeated Hu- happened so often, that there is licit, 1-6, 6-3, 6-4; Sundquist, Amherst, Union-Ha.mllton Summaries Two mile run-Won by Gregory something to it. It is a shame, be- defeated Fox, 9·7, 6-2. Ed\Vards, Hamilton, defeated Hum- (W); Bastedo (U), second; Mirate cause here everything possible is Doubles-Winston and Manning, Am- mer, & and 2; R. Govern, Hamilton, (U), third. Time-10:26.6. done to insure impartial officiating. herst, defeated Moffett and Stroebel, defeate·d Horvath, 3 and 1; W. Gov- 120 yard high hurdles-Won by 6·1, -3; Meldrum and Owen, Amherst, em, Hamilton, defeated Christian,. 4 Parkhurst (W) ., Turner (U), sec- I don't suppose that much defeated Chrysler and Keats, 6-G, 6-2; and 3; Murphy, Hamilton, defeated be d b t it b t •t Merchant and Sundquist, Amherst, Langer, 3 and 2. ond; Waldron (U), third. Time- can one a ou ' u 1 d1·ew with Roberts and Cohen with Edward'S and R. Qovern, Hamilton, 0:15.9. might be a good idea to have a score at 9-9 in the third set. defeated. Hummer and H.ol'Vath, 1 up ; committee get togetlter before w. <iovern and Murphy, Hamilton, de- 220 yard low hurdles~Won by the various seasons begin; and feated Christian and Langer, 3 and 2. Turner (U); tie for second between agree on a set of officials. In Macinnes, Smith Star In Frosh Lac1·osse Opene1· Winkhaus (W) and Parkhurst (W). that way everybody would get Time-0:27.1. a better brealt, and a great deal Shot-put- Won by Lamberton of the hard feeling what exists (W); Bauer (W), second; Nagus- between ourselves and some of zewsld (U), .third. :bistance-44 feet otu' :rivals might be eliminated. 4%, inches. CORSAGES $1.00 and Up T. J. KING ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ! • • • • • • • • : IT'S PURE! IT'S DELICIOUS : • • : IT'S WHOLESOME : • • • • • Serve Colonial Ice Cream at all Social Events • = . : and Every Week I • • • • I Colonia] I The freshman lacrosse team ·suc- cessfully opened its season on Sat- urday by scoring a 9 to 3 victory over a strong ten from Manhasset high school. Smith and Macinnes led the frosh attack. Broad jump-Won by Flint (W); Burton (U), second; Durbin (W), third. Distance-22 .feet 5 inches. High jump-Tie for first between Ellis (W) and Burton (U) ; Turne1· · (tJ>, third. Height-5 feet 10 inches. • • • • PHONE 2-5666 At the Overhead Crossing. : ICE CREAM 5 For a Better Cleaning on State St. : • During tbe first naif of the gan1e the high school team man1ged to hold Fred Wyatt's players on even terms, i ut thE' freshmen W•!llt on a rampage the? I eafter and ·.ne out- t!·)tlle was n<'.:ver in doubt. Pole vault-Tie for first between Griffing (U) and Burton (U); tie for third between Flint (W) and HolmeS (W). Height-11 feet 3 inches. Discus throw-Won by Naguzew- ski (U); Bauer (W), second; Holmes (W), third. Distance-130 The first · game with J)eerfield Academy, <>riginally .scheduled for Saturday, will be played tqmorrow afternoon on the Library Field at 4:30 o'clock. The SUffi).''JHY' feet 8lh inches. Javelin throw-Won by Gallant . (U); Lamberton (W), second; Bauer (W), third. Distance-164 Poa, 'Union l\Ianllasset G Tompkins .................. Grey P :Ma1•sella ........ , L'Hommedleu CP Kennedy . , ......... , . Wilchinski 1D Liffiton ............. , ...... Lake 2D Knox ....... , ........... Weniger C Fraser ........ , . .. . . . . .. . Reeves 1A :M.aicinnes , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pannes 2A Vandecar ................. Aleck IH Smith .. , .. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allen OH MacMurray . , , . . . . . . . . . . . Doherr Referee : Green, Swarthmore. feet Blh. inches. Hammer throw-Won by Bauer (W); Beardsley (W), second; Pratt (W), third. Dis.tance-125 feet. 440 yard dash-Won by Howard (W) ; Ross (U), second; Wheeler (W), third. Time--0:52.15. 880 yard run-Won by Wood (W); Brockwehl (U), second; Welles (W), third. Time 2:04. Service OPEN EVENINGS 5 THERE IS A DEALER NEARBY ~ Crystal Cleaners & Dyers • • ~~~;;~~;;;;;;~~~~~~~;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;~ 8 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• , ONLY THE BEST IS GOODENOUGH BRANDHORST PHARMACY 11 0n the Corner.. Union Street and Gillespie Reg. Phar. Reg •. Phat:. Edward H. Brandhorst. Leland E. Brandh~rst, SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY. INC. 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK \C'mout Sometime\ AND SEE OUR MODEL DAIRY FARM AT DUANESBURG PINE GROVE DAIRY WE CORDIALLY INVITE OUR CUSTOMF.LRS AND TIIEIB. FBIENDS TO DRIVE OlJT AND SEE OUR FARM WHERE WE PBOD'UOE OUR OWN GRADE 'A! MILK TELEPHONE 4-7741

Four Dr. Quigley Advises Building on Rock Hundred On (;lee THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 1,.1934 Dollars Made I Tl.e ootrinf: quur tet played ,;e\'t't all On :\1onday. May 7, the Gl<\e Club I HI<~NIOR NOTICE Beur sar's office, and not on May numbt•l s, a.nll they were well PIe- 1 will appear befon' the Albany . . 9 as originaJ.Iy announced,\ said Club Concert 1 pa!l·d ant! W<'ll recdVPd. The ,;tring 1 <'ommunity Chorus. Included un thl' 1 . \::lemurs wrll pay thl'!r graduation Professor Anthony Hoadley, this ____ lt;ll:tl'll'l i,; now a regular )1Uit of: program will b<' tilt> corm•dy :-;kit. 1 t·,.,. uf ftlt<•t•n dollar,, on TuPHday. mor·ning. Graduate students will . ,.,·,·ry lllt·•· C'lub performmwt•. · 0 . . · :11ay ll, tme wt•rk from tuday, at the pay th .. ir diploma fee on May 9. Peace :\leans Reactions of Who Work Down to Rock Confidence Enjoyed by l\len a·a.lizt·d !'tum the GleL· Club <'Ull· ftth,tp>< th• ·b<'><l llnd~twn bj 111 ' (harl('.' HBlckl('Y Dtl\H After ------------------ {.'1!,, 1 :-~t• r.u \•Ht· hundt t>d Julla1 :-- \\a~ >, , • \ • • · · , • • I ~ • • I . . ~ung,.t.er:; w.1:; thl' Htll-Tu.lrnun;h ar- s • ' ~·~ltf w~:~~ \\;::~ 1 ~\ 1 j~l~~· tl~·; ~~~ 11 ;:~1~ IHilgemellt of 'Tht• La,;~ Roundup.' Leap Ft·om Apartme-nt Roof m:::m;:mm;;;;mm::m::m;;;mmmm;mm::m::m::mmm;;;m:mm::mm::::mm::mm;;mm;mm;m:mmm · 11 .. d f ,: h 1 1 On this \ong thev combmed perfet·t ::: ::: znont•v \\1 •ue u~e or a ~C' {Jil • t' · itl ·r t t.l' t\ l' 1 ::: ::: ship i'ur a Schenf'ctadv bov tu at- lllllllg \\ l pet l'C ll' lUll w lit' I !!! m t l L • . 1 . . • - madP 1t quite ea~y for the audlenc\l Ctrar ),·::; lilncklt•v, nwmber Qf the ili m t:nt n1un nt•X \ t\.t.l. . 1 1 h . . ~ m ::: g.,,;itles tlw regular llon<•s wl.ieJrl to euntPn~ .rt>;e f ~· t h~tenmg 10 ~olJhomotl' class and a re,;ident of m m \Peace Joc·s not n1eun ce;:sation of all actl\'itv. ur even ju,.;t lt:llt from well-eui1wd victon·,\ \wJ Dr. H.. .B. U611by, PI esa.len t of Tl inity College 111 the chapd :<el vice~ ::>un- day mol!llllg. \It may m~·an >'imply the natural l'<'actions of c:unllucnce enjuyc·d Ly IllL·n who worl' down to the llvm;; luL·k fur thdt founda- tions Hnd tlwit tnr,t In God.\ , , . ~ . 1 tht• beauutul strams of the song. • • . . . . . m ;:; the (~~Ct' Club sang. Hler:belt J_;au\;l The Gll•e Clu·b did its usual exePI- ~··w Yotk l'lly, l'011lll_lltled HUICide m T'H··E CAZETT'E PRES' s i!'l ~l'r. 3·! .. ;;tudl•nt IPatet, ~enul'tCl, !(llC<' llll ·Homr• un the Ran •e' a. ~atunlay by lrapmg-.from ~Itt• l'Oof !!i · ;!. M'\'t•:al llll'ldt·ntal o<ulu::; win<·h \\o•r·el son., wllich h:t~ been imm;n,;el\' ot an apu.rtmt•nt building Ill NPW !!! · !!! ll.~l't'l\'l\d \\l~h ~}Pat Ptlthu~Ia:4?l I:Y 0 ~lar ()\'t._ll' ~ln<'e Dr. Tidnlal'~h iri- York. . !!i e:! the. aut11crH·t• l!H: novelt~·-\klt m.i,,:.lliL't•tl it tu the student bod· in He wu.s an. honor ;;tudent unt1l g! 5ij Whieh T!.;otnton \\ hi)Jple. 3;.' :Ialli!',, I cl!a Jel l'XCI'('i>'l':' tv.. ·o ·ea!S }8\0. ll'Cently ar!d JUS( before. t.he act he n! p R I h.~ T ER s f:~ Dr. Og1lby took a~ h1,.; text the final :Sl'tltencP\ of tlH• St:llllllll on the .\lount Ill which Clu bt com- pared the eftects uf the otorlll upun the two huu:<es, une built liJlun the luck and tlw otlwr on the :::and. \In t!J,.,,. vt•r ,,.,_ Wt' lH·ar· the Car- pl•ntt·t· ~JH:~dun~.· :--atd P1 t:-;iJt'nt Ogilby. \we hear the pan humorist who H·buked people for p1dling splinters out of otht•I people'::; (•yes when tht:y had two-b~·-fnur joi>'lB in their own\ \Sume )a··uplP are all fur building on sand t\dav. Th<·v ,,\.it is net·e:;- :;at y m tli~ pr,.;,.nt · Pllletgt•ncy. .Act~. dL'Cbli_Hl~. and .pu;a_·n·:-; \vhit.:h in ll<>tmal t:Im·, wou:t! be promptly rqnluiatt·d ''~ un~uund a1 ,. tlt'fcndt·t! ull thr• ,.;:ound that the• ~ll'•<'llt >ltU- UtlOll J~ ~D ~c·tlou...:: that action ad- nutteuJ\· bas<·d on rn,ecun founda- :tons 1~ Jll.-tllil'd tf 1l will llelp to Hll J>r \\\ a ft:t1 h. \\' ,. rn.ty e:tll this U~L· L<l::t .\' t:f t!t·.:-t'': a:1un. It 1~ tht~ le~qlpt•ataaee \)f til(' :.t!H'h•nt and :-ulHt'tllJH·:- at: t at·t: vt· f.dla.cv that tlw t·nJ jll~tilk~ tlh' ntun>.''- I \.:\<> pellll:lrH·nt inlj>tu\'tllll'nt Ill,. tJ't>n•)Ililf'_ aff:111:..: can h~ bt ought about. no ill.- <.•f tho· body polrn· · can bt· cuted, no .---ati:-:fa.c,t\_)JV ad~ ju,:-;trnL·Ht of ~tH ia} tt.lHtiUll:-:. t7al1 be ad!lt·Vt·d t•xe<·pt Ly net ion bn,.;ed tl!JUil ('l lllt'I)Jlt•.- fllllULI.IJlt'!(tally St'- Cli!P,\ -'\rd Ilr. O;.:ilby ''In cnntra~t t\ t·ht· t-·~ht··.., uf tlt>...:- pt·l~t:lf•ll \Vi' ~!;,,:lfd. :-t[t~.· tht• tUdL'! of tLt· ('ar pt·ntt·: \\'ht·n tl.t· olul 111- i ('L)\ld_.., gath•,·: a:-1d t~J•-· V!.-ltld 11:--t·-\ t:•· c:tn t: tt ... t ;!~ !!.•· .,_., ·11 :ty t•f hi;\ 1 <·r:tft_~tllan-t::p :f :., :\.no\\._ }.;::~ i~tttl~.- 1- hu.:• :qJ••ll • :.•• lu·d •,,, it I OtLt•J t!tt'tl c:l{l trtt~: Lilli t''\'· bt· 1 <,.tt: ... ,. J.:-: :t1·· ~·11 tnt!;~ l.·t.~t-u (•n · \\.t>ll·It•••....:l1ll•··i JlllflliJ•·,·-. ttll he· p: ,,. l:: I - •. , __ .t 'I • '. t ! ll ~ I' t. t ~ t. ( t II.: Ill· 1 . I n···nt' '.\.\to~~~~~·--: t·!.\ lf••n:n,·nt 1 hi 1-t' gavt• tl.t• t!.t• tl.JtLv «•t JH·act· · I. \LJ·;:'\ 11.\ H T••ni~.;ht -1 '! •·.t:...; t.':t~·h !J,t'Ptln~ 1\ tpp:t :--; ' ll· .: ,. ... I\ I .-\!I. t': }• ; t.f-, ;--:, •I : t' ~ \' \! { •; \'ll 1->~.: .. :.•lt·:.-- r:.r·•·t:Lg 1:--\lu·!··nt l'•.q•'•!•, <'1:1: I·:r; • ..:::r.t·t'llll~-. T•,rn-.rr••\\. ftt: \' ~\-:t•YJ.h;y .,,t ('.,, ,t'. •· I;,, II ~ :)•• y :vt t • .\ trll···•t:...: ~~ .!- , •. ,. lhll fj. : 1 n It•:~ \ :\·lJ·: \· t•·hll! ~- :tT . ..: l t t•!: • •\ : ,, ,, ,_...,,., Li.!•ll \ l lt•t•! f., .•: ·I ~· h1·nf·f·t :t.dy .. :~\ I ; .. ' \l J:, ; , . \ ,J I I 1!1 n·t I ! 'I .,, ' ; ... '~ , .. (; 1.::::. ,. ... . .. .: ',1: ~~: ::n t•lb .. : Thtll''>tla' 1~~ l 1 1ll\ ,\~;-.;··rr.t'•.; .. f~· v \'w- •,, JI F;,.·i··k 1:..:- ' 10 ' j~;u;,<~ t ·.!!IJ rtlt·t r-u,..:. J!:,(·•- l . ! ~': ·t J ~ It·' 'I \ F1. ·::t·; ~1t·:·1·. C.ub nul't· T. ' ,..:~. '~·:.ti.:~~L 1U:JJ FRANK FERRARO 1-'ruit and l'rodtH'~ Whnii'Sllle and Retail If It grows, I have It: 1231 CRASE ST. Tt-l. 2-71\28-W PAR.K J.AT'!'IJ>RY, I::I'C. 10& Cllnt()n St. ti 111>nr T~mpl•) l'IIO!'H: 4·9011 I 'otlnrP Buu<ll•·• a l'lpNlally 1ua•••••••••••••••••••••a • i : THE FARM : 5THE COUNTRY CLUB5 : RESTAURANTS = g • ••am•m••••~••••••••••••• Call Ball For better and quicker Sarvtct In Clothea Cleaning and Shoe Rebuild.. lng-~t no higher cost than ela& whora ONlll DAY !iERVICE ANY DAY Ho1 an, 3!. ,\hn Bt<-Wll, 3o, and' \'I 1 t . , B 1 . } 1 \' f told the fr\rend he wa~ VI>:Htrng that ::: n : ~I , H . . 3 . k 1 1 1 .• ~ tor· n m 1 •·at was a so one o 1 . 1 b 1 . 1 ::: :. l !at ;t•:-: t'lll. .h. tdo pat t at l Pt : the fpatlll'{,'$ of the Pl {} TJ alll. le \\'Ub \\~01 l'll'l a out. 11~ lllUl {~. m ~S! IIIUL'll tn t!a· leVItY of tht• pro~1am.l g Last \\ ednPsday Hmddcy wao; ::: ::: Tht> skit \\U8 WL•Ii )'!Ppar £'d anti as' Aftt•l' th(· t'Oil('l'l t was eoncludt•d,: elected ~ccretary-Tr·easun•l of thP I m m a CllliN''Jllt'lll'e tht· audit•nt'P was I a dant·e was hl'ld until one thiny I C'hes,.; Clu·b. in which lte was an uc- m lli \\ t• i i Jll t~:t ::-. t•t i Wit t I it. I t J. C l tit' k. i t.i \'e n1e mbet•. .m::m::m:::m:::m:::m::::m::::::::mm::::mm:::m::m:m:::m::m:mm!!!l!!!:::::::::m:::m::m::m::m:m:m:~ii The clean Center Leaves .~ .1 .. are the mildest leaves Luckies are all-way~ kind to your throat W HEREVER the finest tobaccos grow -in our O\\ n Southland, in Turkey, in Greece-all over the world, we gather the very Cream of the tobacco Crops for Lucky Strike. And that means ullly tht· cft'all cmter !ea'ves. The center leaves are the mild- est leaves- they taste better and farmers are paid higher prices for them. These clean center leaves are the only ones used \It's toasted\ { Luckies are all-ways kind to your throat -- in making Luckies. Then \It's toasted\- for throat protection. And every Lucky is fully packed with these choice tobaccos- made round and firm, free from loose ends-that'::; why Luckies \keep in con- diti.on ''-why you'll find that Luckies do not dry out-an important point to e7.:ery smi'Jktr. Naturally, Luckies are always in all-~ kind to your throat. Only the Center Leaves-these are the Mildest Leaves Copyr!lllt, 1934, 'fho AlllortClln Tubucc~ CVIIlPIIII7• ~~~ H l : I t 1---· \'()I. = Po] En: At Bane 11 tt· Fit Dra1 Tc Tw t.1a,;, lard up <>l )JI'Ppl wt•ek But It natio I'd j thPy No busy out ' fun· 1 p('o~ the J. t•arl'f grou and' I hytJ ,;pon uf tl in1te fotu· M1 ll'(\t\ gag€ Phil: whP ml'l• Pll'\!1 CtJl\J Pnju ean1 f't•ll wan and B• anJ: thP la,;t !.Ill' r Ft·h Ep,.; Itt· r Ita;; Na\ I<' ~un: ltl PI I~ n llllC {'Ult ~un lllU: Wu Jan T I' h .. Ull iuu !-iU<' )tp !air Hi:f.)( tiol 1 of lUI lo fin of di€' l'OI lUI Ul'l but lht tht Tt H~ tho wi Ol' it 1{11 bo lot w an co UE w or nl f(J Ia at n Ul fl tE fc 01

Four Dr. Quigley Advises Building on Rock Hundred On Glee .. , THE CONOORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 1, '1934 Dollars Made 'llhe st.ring qua11tet played several On Monday, May 7, the Glee Clulb numbers, and they were well pre- . will appeal• ,before the Albany Club Concel't pared and well received. The string Com!l:lunity Chorus. Included on the quartet is now a regular part of pr<>gram will ibe the comedy slcit. every Glee· Club per!ormance. Close to one hundred dollars was SENIOR NOTICE Beursar'.s office, and not on May \Seniors will pay their graduation 9 as originally announced,\ said Professor .Anthony Hoadley, this fee of fifteen dollans on Tuesday, morning. Graduate students will ' May 8,. one week from today, at the · pay their diploma fee on :May 9. realized from the Glee Club con- Perhaps the best rendition: by the Charles Hinckley Dies Afte1· Peace Means Reactions of cert which was held at the Mohawk song>~ters was the Hill-Tidmarsh ar- Who Worlt Down to Rock Golf Club on Friday night. The ~S:1~~e:;n~ft~!;eco~~~n~~~~~~·~ Leap F·ron Apartment Ro()f !lii!iii::::::mm:m::::mm:::mmm::m:::mmmm:mm:mm:m:::m:::mm:m:m::m:m:::m:;mmm:ll/ C nfid E . ed b M money will be used for a scholar- timing with perfect diction which 'i' 0 ence llJOY Y en. ship for a Schenectady boy to at- made it quite easy for the audience Charl·es H!nclrJey, mem•ber o~ the !:i \Peace does not mean cessation of all activity, or even just rest from well-earned victory,\ said Dr. R. B. Ogilby, .president of Trinity College in the chapel services Sun- day morning. \It may mean simply the natural reactions of confidence enjoyed by men who work down to the living rock for their founda- tions and their trust ill God.\ Dr. Ogilby took as his text the final sentences of the Sermon on the Mount in which Christ com- pared the effects of the storm upon the tw<:> houses, one built upon the rock and the other on the sand. \In these verses we hear the Car- penter speaking,\ said President Ogilby, \we hear the grim humorist who rebuked people for picking splinters out of other people's eyes when they had two-by-four joists in their own.\ \Some people are all for building on sand today. They say it is neces- sary in the present emergency. Acts, decisions, and policies which in normal times would be promptly repudiated as unsound are defended on the ground that the .present situ- ation is so serious that action ad- mittedly based on insecure founda- tions is justified if it will help to improve affairs. We may call this the ethics of desperation. It Is the reappearance of the ancient and sometimes attractive fallacy that the end justifies the means.\ \No permanent improvement in economic affairs can be brought about, no Ills of the body politic can be cured, 110 satisfactory ad- justment of social relations can be achieved except .by action based upon principles fundamentally se- cure,\ said Dr. Ogilby. \In contrast to the ethics of des- peration we should stress the code of the Carpenter. When the storm- clouds gather and the wind rises, he can trust in the security of his craftsmanship if he knows his house is built upon the bed-rock. Other men can trust him too, be- cause his action, being based on well-recognized principles, can be prec:Ucted. To this perfect adjust- ment with one's environment Christ gave the the name of peace.\ CALENDAR Tonight 8:00-Chess Club meeting, Kappa Nu Hou5e. 8:00-American Society of Civil Engineers meeting <Student Chapter), Civil Engineering Building. Tomorrow 10:00 Daily Assembly, thf' Col· lege Choir. 2:30 -Y. M. C. A. meeting, Silli- man Hall. Golf, Union vs. Mirldl~>bury at Schenectady. 4:3(}-Lacrosse, Union V15. Deer- field at Schenectady. 3:30. -Glee Club Rt>hearsal, Han· na Hall. 7:30 -Gamet Goblins Rehearsal, Silliman Hall. Baseball, Union Vl'. St. Stephens at SchPnectady. 7·30 Student Council m~eting, 13 North College. 8:30 -Terrace Councill meeting, Council office. Thmsday 10:00--Dally Assembly, Rev. Vic- tor H. Frelick. 12:00--Radw Club meeting, Elec- tlical Laboratory. 8.00 Faculty Men's Club meet- int:;. Twphy room. Gymnasium. FRANK FERRARO Fruit and Produce Wholesale and Retall U it groW&, I ba.ve ltl 1231 CRANE ST. Tel. 2-7828-W PA..RK LAUNDRY, INC. 1'05 Ollnton St. (Labor Temple) PHONE 4-9011 College Bundles a Specialty , ....................... . i THE FARM 5 iTHE COUNTRY CLUB! : RESTAURANTS = a • •••••••••••••••••••••••• Call Ball ~ Jror better and quleker Sarvtce In Clothe. Cleaning and Shoe RebuDd- lng-at DO higher cost than slae- whe~ ONB DAY l!lEBVIOB ANY DAY ~~~~ • • ·.:1•lll Besides the regular songs which to content itself with listening to sophomore class and a resident of m'•. the Glee Cl ... b sang, =e~bel't Haus- the beautiful strains of the song .. N y k •t 'tt d . 'd !! ,- HE- CAZ- -·Err· E p· ltE'SS ·~ w = ~· The Glee Club did its usual excel- ew or 01 y, comml e SUlCI e :·' ' jl ser, '34, student leader, rendered lence on 'Home on the Range; a Saturday by leaping from the roof j; 1 · : , · • · · . . !'!. several incidental solos which were of ali. ap· artliient building in New ·! song which has been immensely :fl· I recelved with great enthusiasm by .popular ever since Dr. Tidmarllh in- York. = •. •'.il ·! the audience. The novelty skit, in .troduced it to the student body in He was an. honor student until which Thornton Whip.ple, '35, James h recently and' just 'before the act he 'II p· R I ~ T 'E ·R S ! Horan, '34, Alan Er0wn, '36, and ~:!r~~i::,x~~::~. !!~ J:~r~n:g~f told the friend he was visith:~g that i.·''li •• =,,· · ..... ' · 1 b 1 •• Charles Reid, '36, topk part added the features of the progra.m. he Wall worried about his marks. , much to the levity of the program. Last Wednesday Hinckley waB • !!! !ii The skit was well prepared and as After- the c<mcert was concluded, elected Se-cretary-Treasurer of the m 1 , 1 a consequence the audience was a dance was held until one thirty Chess· Club, In which he was an ac- m Ji wen pleased with it. o'clock. tive member. illm::mmm:m:mmm::m:~:m::m:m:m::::m:mm:m:mm::m::!:::::::::m::m:m:mmmmm:::::m:m::=i::~U The clean Center Leaves are the mildest leaves Luckies are all-way~ kind to your throat W HEREVER the finest tobaccos grow -in our own Southland, in Turkey, in Greece- all over the world, we gather the very Cream of the tobacco Crops for Lucky Strike. And that means on& the clean center leaves. Thecenterleavesarethemild- est leaves - they taste better and farmers are paid higher prices for them. These clean center leaves are the only ones used \It's toasted\ { Luckies are g!l·ways kind to your throat Only the Center Leaves-these are tAe Mildest Leaves in making Luckies. Then ~'It's toasted\- for throat protection. And every Lucky is fully packed with these choice tobaccos- made round and firm ... free from loose ends-that's why Luckies \keep in con- dition\- why you'll find that Luckies do not dry out-an important point to every smoker. Naturally~ Luckies are always in all-ways. kind to your throat. -- I i - I .( 1 L Vol = Po En At Ban T tl Dm 'I Tv tras, lard up e l_>rep wee! :Bon riati• ed they N' bUSJ out fore reco the care grot and rhyt spot oft in it' foUl M rec1 gag Phi Whl mel ele\ Col enj• can Per wa1 and E a.nc the lasi the Fel Ep: he ha~ Na :E sor ore is • mi• col SOl mt W: Ja: ch- on iO\ su he tai sa tic of tu to fir of di co tu

May said this will y 9. Ill ::: m 'I~· I' I' m ::: ... ·- Meetings Of Student !Body To Be l Monthly I Next Year I L-~----_J StS Thirteen To Receive Dramatics Honors Prize Day ----········· Vol. LVII., No. 54 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, l\IAY 4, 1934 Prom, Booth Tickets May Be Obtained from Conunitteemen Popular Orchestras John Howard Payne Cast As Female Thirteen Will Be EnjoyM~teori~~ise In 'Pulaski' Ade,lphic Play· of 1808 :Given Dral!latics At U t 1 e S H t P D For the cenvenience of those who . lll v e r Sl .· .• . • onor a rtze .. ay ·wish to .purchase Prom tickets, the RICHARD E. PASSENGER . names of the Junior Prom commit- Band Has Slower !Rhythm Than Most Negro Ot~ches~ tras; Faster Than Garbers Flool' Space Under Way John Howard Payne, WJuely have had a great deal of innall\ lu1own as the author of \Home abHity, however, for all reports in- Sweet Horne,\ was not only active· dicate that he gave the impre8sion in literary .fields and p1 ominent as of being a polh;hed performer, well a scholar during his early years at adapted te the part. Union, but he was also interested At the end of this play, Payne <.Ie- Ordway, Smith, Berger, Dia~ mond, Groesbeck, Bennett, Roylance, Stroebel Get Key Each in Three Plays Dmwing for Booth Locations To Be Made on Wednesday . in theatrical productions. This man, livered an epilogue in ven1E', writ- . who later became a professienal ac- ten by himself especially for the ac- tor and a dramatist of some repu- casion. H~ disclosed his masquerad<> tation, made his stage debut h<>re> at as a woman and in defpnse of hi\ Union, cast in a female role. action made a satirical attack on ·White, Bl'OWll, l{wiatlmwsld, Upon his at·rival at college, Pa.yne female~ of the time who were af- Smith, Woolman, Hmored was elected to the Adelphic Society fecting the chamcteristics of men. in consid'eration ()f his early sue- During his later life, Payne look cess in joUl'nalism and literatllle. up the stage u.s a source of revenue The Mountebanks theater will Two nationally famous oi,ches- As a member of this club he had and gave worthy pel'formances in tras, Fletcher Henderson and Wil- to take part in a p!Ogi·am present- Shakespearian, as well as contem- present thirteen up.percla::;smen lard Alexander, are noW' winding ed by the club, befo1 e the college, porary plays. One of his biog- with gold keys bearing the emblem up engagements and are making 1 n 1808. The play, \Pulaski\ w1it- -n.1:phers states that the ma1'n reason h t t · d u · xt of the dramatic organization at t e vrepara ions o 1nva e mon ne. ten by a student and based on the for his failure to achieve lasting week, by playing at Junior Prom. life of the famous genenll, hall but fame as a gn•at actor was his prac- annual Prize day eKercises, Wed- Both of these orchestras enjoy wide one female part. Payne accepted tical attitude. Had he been an ama- nesday, May 9, it was announced national reputations and have earn- the role, undoubtedly an unpopular: tli'Ur, acting for the play's sake in- today. Keys are awarded usually ed favorable comment wherever one, and with the aid of his sweet :;tead of his o\'n p~cuni'ary ad- d .. • to juniors or seniors who have they have .pl'll.ye - . voice and delicate featux·es over- vancement, he might have become No other Philadelphia leader is, as came the difficulties of imitating one of 'the forPmo~t artors Amer- taken significant part in three or busy as Willard Alexander. With- one of the opposite sex. He must ic:.> has produced. more productions of the society. out question he has risen to the Those who will receive awards of fore quickly and his band is being merit are: Thomas Ordway, Jr., of recognized as one of the finest of·. TI\dmarsh Wt\l'l Play Whi\tney Speaks At· Albany; Charles w. Bennett, of the present day orchestras. After a _ · · , . Hartford, Conn,; F. Dean Roylance careful an'll.lysis of various musical \Rh d 0 B'l \ s· x· I ot• t\ of Lagrangeville; John E. White, groups, Mr. Alexander decided upon . apso y Ill ue Igma 1 lll Ia lOll Jr., of Malone; Milton A. Bl'rger of and developed an orchestra of novel , Poughkeepsie; Robert M. Brown of rhythm and distinctive style. The · --- Saranac Lake; Richard M. Dia~ spontaneous and favor-able reaction Anvil Cl101·us, In a Monastei'Y Director of G. E. Reseal'Ch • mond, Harvey P. Groesbeck, Doug- of the vast radio audience has def- las V. Smith, Abraham Smith, and initely placed this orchestra in the Garden, Peer Gynt Suite On Lab Gives Talk About Sci- George Stroebel, Jr., of SchPnec- four-star class. Sunday Recital PmgTam ence and Man's Happiness tady; William Kwiatkowski, of Syracuse; and Joseph A. Woolman At the \Anch ___ of Troy. Mr. Alexander and his band have Light, pleasant cornp()sitions, Dr. Willis R. Whitney of the Gen- Ordway in Fe>minin~ Jtoles recently completed a regular en- :familiar to all students. comprise era! Electric Resear.ch staff gave Ordway took feminine roles in gagement at t):le 'Anchora&\e one of 'the pt·ogram which Dr. Tidmarsh the initiates of Sigma Xi a rar~ Maurice Maeterlinck's \The Intru- Philadelphia's sm1,1rtest night clubs, :will offer Sunday afternoon in his treat Wedne:;day night with a dy- der,\ \Everyman and in Eugene where his programs of smooth. weekly organ r·ecital. Intended pri- namic address which roused an in O'Neill's \The Hairy Ape.\ melodious music were broadcasted marily for children, the numbers tense enthusiasm in the audience Bennett first appeared with thE\ eleven timt:lS weekly from the local :which he has selected sh<>uld prove for the development of scientifit Studio Players, a subsidiary group Columbia station. The orchestra :especially appealing to students at inclinations as a means for con- to the Mountebanks, i:n Arthm enjoys unusual popularity on the , tl;lis time of the year, when class quering the obstacles to genuine Hop\dhs \Moonshine then played campuses of the University of work is becoming more pressing happiness in man's environment J. leading role in A. P. Herbert's Pennsylv>ania, Cornell, Drexel, DeJa- and the lethargic effect of Spting The initiatm-y banquet W8..':l held ·'Two Gentlemen of Soho,\ and toolt ware, LaSalle, Syracuse University more noticeable. at the Mohawk Golf Club. the part of the wife in \Second teemen anu the various houses to which they arE\ si>lling tickets are reprinted her·e: Char!P.B L. Dain, Beta Theta Pi and Theta Delta Chi; Duncan Mc- Nab, Alpha Delta Phi, Kappa Nu and Theta Nu Epsilon; Raymond McDowell, Alpha Mu Sigma, Kappa Sigma and Lambda Chi Alpha; Ralph Semerad, Alpha Phi Delta, Phi Gamma Delta and Sigma Chi; Richard Davis, Chi Psi, Delta Pi Nu and Phi Delta Theta; John Moffett, Delta Chi, Delta Phi and Psi Upsilon; Donald Moulton, Delta Upsilon and Phi Sigma Delta; Stanley Mower, Kappa Alpha, Phi Sigma Kappa and Sigma Phi. , Booth tickets, which are fifteen dollars, us before, may be obtained when these men visit the fraternity houses. ---0---- \S. S. Tenacity\ Is On Everyday Life Vildrac, Pal'isian Author, Uses Hldllfully Evolved Action In Place of Detailed Plot A typical eKample of French post-war drama, \S. S. Tenacity\ the Mountebank's Prom produc- tion, is the work of one of the best known contemporary Charles Vildrac. dramatists, l!'l:nd Temple University. ' The \Rhapsody in Blue,\ always Dr. Whitney was supposed to Shepherd's Play,\ the fifteenth cen- By popular demahd Williard Alex- popular and more interesting wit}! , spealt of his 'ho'blbies.' He mixPd his tury mystery play. He will a-ppeal ander's band was brought baclt to each _new _rendlt.wn, and_ Be~thuven .\ tales about his turtles with tales as one of the workmen ln \S. S. the Syracuse· University campus ~\ass1c M:mu~t I_ll G, w1th Its fane!- about Francis Bacon whom he con- Tenacity,\ the French collledy to be last week end ·after having played tul melody, mdiCate th~ wide va.n- siders thP father of the modem sci- presented during Junior Prom there· twice earlier in the year. In ,ety of th~ numbers Which Dr. T1d- entific attitude. Dr. Whitney told Weeltend, May 11 and 12. FebrUoary .he played at tht' D.elta :marsh wtll ~\aY.: Equally ~on.~rast- how he hru; been ob.;erving the min- Roylance has appeared in a vari- Epsilon House at 'Cornell and smce , mg are ,verd.l s Anvil Ch01 us .. and utest habits of land tm ties. ety of roles in these plays: ''Wurzel The author is of provincial birth, but his long residence in Paris has made him a perfect cosmopolitan However, he has the rare trick of being able to detach himself from his surroundings and write hi~ plays from a point of view entirely different from his natural outloo·k, There is nothing Parisian in his plays. Is Sym.patht'tlc Dramatist he made such a nit at that time he ,Ketelbys bnef tone poem, In a Bacon \Vas Prophet 'Flummery\ by A. A. Mflne, \From has been engaged to play at the Mo.nastery Gard.en,\ a quiet, medi- 'Which He Looked\ by Collman His- Navy Day Ball on June 4 . :t<;tive piece wh1ch produces a dt'- To the noted Francis Bacon, Dr. 'lop, \The Intruder,\ \Everyman , . :)Idedly restful effect. Whitney acci·edited the present pro- and in \The Hairy Ape.\ He was PRICE FIVE GENTS Monthly Meetings For Student Body Planned Next Year Investigating· Group Submits Report to Student Council On Plans for Next Year Devote :Day to Freshmen Meeting at Beginning of Year To Be Used fm· Odentation According to a plan submitted by a committee composed of Austin Fox, '35, Ralph Semerad, '35, and Guy Griswold, '36, which has been investigating the question of Stu- dent Body Meetings, and approved Wednesday night by the Student Council, meetings will be held every Monday for the first fl.ve weeks of the college year, and for the rest of the year at least one Monday out of each month on a date to be de- termined by the chairman of the Council. At some meeting during the first five weeks the freshmen rules will be read, as well as the constitution of the Student Council, in order to assist in the general orientation of the freshmen. The plan also pro- vides that Student Body Meetings will be held in .the Old Chapel. Every meeting shall be opened with the singing of a college song other than the Alma Mater and closed with the singing of the Alrna Mater. This procedure will be adopted to establish <a greater familiarity with the songs of the college and for the orientation of freshmen. Parliamentary Procedure The committee has provided that strict Parliamentary procedure will be observed in the conduct of all Student Body Meetings. Further- more, the results of all college ath- letic contests taking pla.ce since the last meeting of the Student Body shall be reported by the captain of any team which has engaged in a contest, or if he is absent, by the manager of the team. Fletcher ~enderson s orchestra If In a similar manner two playful gressive attitudt' towards science 'pspecially effPPtive as Death in somewhat different- from ~ost co_!- musical sketches by Goosens, \ThP and the method of scientific inves- '\Everyman\ and as a policeman ~>red orchestras In that h1s musiC' Hurdy-Gurdy Man\ and \March of tlgation. Bac•on, hP said, in his and thl'n a stoker in O'Neill's play. IS more d~~;nceable and more rhyth- che wooden Soldiers\ prect•de Wag· \New Atlantis\ prP:tE'ntPd twenty- , White and Brown together have mlc than 1s usually expeded. from ner's fervent religious mat~h. \Tllf' two C'OncPptionR Which wPre hun- 'designt'd lighting effects for the colored band~. Yet, Mr. Hender ,'ilgrims Chorus.\ dreds of years ah!\ad of his time. 'productions of the Mountebank:; son's music 1s nut as slow as thl' · ~uch a..s automobilefl, airplanes a-nd •since 1932, and both are building a music of the class which embraces The Pro~l'!l.ln the like. Of these twenty-two all ·new switchboard, expected to be Wayne King, Guy Lombardo, and l'~<'r f1ynt Suite ..... \· ..... , · · C:ri<·g ·but one have been realized, that one :completed this month. S. Marion Tucker, in Modern Con- tinental Plays says \Viidrac ;;ees clearly, and is sympathetic without being at all sentimental. He pre- ;;ents ordinary characters who are not so much to be loved or hated as under:~tood and tolerated. His persons are animatt'd by elemental emotwns that manifest themselves, not violently, but in the common- place acw of everyday living.\ Vildrac uses no el!;tborate stage techniqut•, and takeB no regard of \climaxes \stning scPnE's,\ and ·'curtains.\ He has no plot, but uses u. defmit:?, mounting action, skill- fully evolved anll guided, flowing smoothly toward an Inevitable con- clusion. · Following the approval of this plan, Edward Hutton, ':l4 moved that the Student Council appro- priate $50 to defray in part the ex- penses of senior commencement ac- tivities. The motion was carried by the Council, together with a recom- mend~tion that the Senior banquet committee submit a budget of their expenditures. It was announced that a meeting of the Student Body w!ll be held Tuesday at 10 o'clock in the Mem- orial Chapel to vote upon the plan for Student Body Meetings and to hold elections for nex:t year's Stu- dent Council. Jan Garber. <'ullcPrtinu. .. \· \·\ ·\- · • \ .... · You b · th f'lt · f It f th •}oblln Danl'e ................. l•vorak emg e 1 ermg 0 sa rom e ' Berger in Several Plays .lurrly- <-:urdr Mn·1 .. , . , , . . . . noo\E'n> ·ocean to make it drinltable. Chern- . ,\Lu'<'h of tho; Wuvd<·ll Suldu•r _ r; .. .,, .. r\ ,ists have said this is impossible. Ber~er ha7 aiso played in a var!- This is the third time that Flet ',l'tlgrirns' <'horn~ · ·, ·, ·, · · ·,- Wagrwr Dr. Whitnt'y concluded his talk. ety of roles m such pla~:;; ~.s Shaw s cher Henderson will have appeared '\,llnw·t irt 1 : ·, ·, • ·,, • ·, • · ·- lke;.h .. ,· •. u that was filled with thought .pro- \Andt ocles and the Lion, -F. Sla· 'An\·tll'lii))IJH ................... \'l·td. UnSmith'· 11 The Man Who 'l'hlrd Appearance on Campus on the campus. In both of his prev- t·\ltghl \' lHt· lltllul.I,• II•··· '' .. ' '. voking examples from natur.e and ' e - . e . .. .. .. ious appearances he scored a hugP .. , .. , ,. ........ l.tin\I<.r-J..: literature. by answering the man . Wou\~n t !_.o ~~ Hea\~~1, Haml~>t · success and with an improved band ''' a :vt .. ua•t•·•r <l:t11h-n ·- ·\ IO:•·h•ll•; who asked if man mal,es more of a ·and The Hally Ape. he ought to be even mote enter- lthat•K<Hl-1 111 Hlu~ ·- · ·, , , , ·, 1 lt·r:;hwm .:ucces>~ out of li-fE\ than llo mot~lq:~ys K.wiatl~ow~.ki was .. a~sistant e~Pc­ taining. His orchestra features a ---o----- or other animals. \No living thing,\ .tric1an Ill Hamlet and ma~tel saxophone quartet and a brass sec· fo llold Goodrich·'Duane \aid the famous scient-ist, Is better ,carpenter for all the plays smce tion of the highest repute. T t M d off than man if we put down that :May, 1933, and this yenl· .waR mndP The prom to be given by the class 'Debate l'YOU s on . ay 'success in life' means the develop- 'associate stage manager. He will of 1.935 will be the tJ,rst one to fea- --- ment of the corte-x, the portion of be stage manager next year. . the brain in which resides man's Woolman has been on the busl- ture a battle of music. In addition . Try-outs for the Goodrich-Duane d h taff f- tl - a · - th ·control over conduct, hence, one's ness an. ouse s or u·ee ye rs to this, next Friday's prom 1s e extemporaneous debate will take d 11 b h e ext h l ability to overcome obstacles in an WI e ouse manag r n first dance to be given by t e c ass place ne::xt Monday at 3:00 in the 1 h th I 1 one's environment.\ ,year. . of 1935. The s ow r Y m c me o- old chapel, and the four men D' d h d h te pa t m dies of Willard Alexander will be in chosen from the candidates will de- To the query, why destroy the \ Iamon a c arac. r\ ,; s contrast to the swifter fox trot bate Thw·sday, June 7, on a subject blacksmith of Longfellow by scien-: A~d~~cle~ a~~ ~he LLi-~1\,D ~ame tunes of ·Fletcher Henderson. not yet announced. tific discoveries, Dr. Whitney re- ?,-~h ~ o~Vh . YW o:d 't u3sar,r~ Cunning Toobniclan ____ , 0 ___ _ However, in sp)te of the natural- BUDGET APPLICATIONS ness of his plays,, Vildrac is one of tne mo:o~t cunning technicians in the Budget forms ilre now available theatt:r today, since by mean:; of at the Bursar's office for any stu- the appurellt ai:-UeBsness of his dent organization or activity which plays. he is enabled to obtain ef- may desire to apply for Student fects that are ra:r<>ly attained by Funds for nt'Xt year. In order to many master playwrights. receive !:he consideration of the Tax Although a Freich play, \S. S. Committee, these budgets must be Tenacity\ i;; all:lo an American fav- filh•d out and deposited at the or·ite, it was played in translation Bursar's office not later than by Sidney Howard on January 2, Wednesday, May 9. 1922, and has b~en often 'revived I:----------------. by the Neighborl'i.ood Playh.ouse in. New York City. ' . . Tickets for the 'production will be on sale Monday afternoon and the rest of the week from 1 :00 to 3:00 in Silliman Hall. -----()---- CALENDAR Tonight Schubert Club Concert--Memor- ial Chapel, 8:30 p. m. Miss Phradie Wells, assisting artist. The Junior Prom committee The Godr'ich-Du.nnc debate is held minded his audience that the gaso- e .~n ° . ou n ° · line stations which have taken the Heayen, a!ld Will appear i.n the urges fraternities to pu:chase thelr ,each year during Commencement om g Jumor Prom prod,lchon \F . n·ff· 1 • \ T b_ ooths as soon as poss1_ble so that · weelt, wL\'tli competition open to stu- , place of the smithies, allmv their c m . · . · · . 1 acn1g l · ICU ties. 0 . attendants more time to develop G1oesbeclt fust appeared m Lotd the decorat()rs can begin work on :dents of all classes. A general toJJic their minds. Dunsany's \The Gods of t.he Moun- ·Be Dean Brown'S Topic Tomorrow Baseball-Union vs. Colgate at Schenectady . Track-Union vs. Hamilton at Clintt•n. the gymnasium early next week. is given after the tryouts, and the tain\ and then had an Important The G. 0. Simmons Company of .specific question is announc-ed at Ellery, liurd Speak part in \Wings Over Eut·ope,\ and Hal'tford, Connecticut, which holds '5:00 on the afternoon: of the debate, · The other speakers of the eve.n!ng also in the parody on tl!ls play. He the contr-act for the , decorations, 'which is held at 8:00 p. m. in the were. Dr. Charles B. Hurd, ret1rmg played in Galsworthy's \The Little will a,rrive in town eitber Tuesday ·old chapel. Two prizes, of twenty president and toastmaster for the Man\ and had the lead in \Two or Wednesday to begin work and dollar.s and thil·ty dollars, ate dinner, Dr. Edward Ellery, national Gentlemen of Soho\ as well as an It is imperative that the committee awarded to the best speakers. ;e.cretary of Sigma Xi, Dr. A. W. important role in \Everyman.\ know at thwt time how many These prizes were established, the Bray, preside'nt of the R. P. I. chap- · Smith House Manaapr booths to erect. Drawings for the tirst by Mr. James Goodrich, '79, ter of Sigma Xi and Julius Sitney, . - ' \' location o,£ •booths will be made on and the second by :Or. Alexandet valedictorian of Union's class of '34. Douglas Smith was- property man- Wednesday, the actual time to be Duane, '78, to promote student in- Seventeen members of the pres- ager in 1932, and house manager announced later. terest in extemporaneous speaking. ent senior class were initiated: Earl during this year. . P Ti kets The candidates who will try-out R. Arnds, Charles S. Bridgman, El-. Abra?~m Sn;ith .. made a h1t as Buy rom c Monday will each talk for five min- vin .E. Clapper, Joseph B. Cortesi, the mt~lster m The ~an Who Tickets are lllade up in different utes on any subject whatever. At Harold E. Ellithorn, Frank Gerse- Wouldn t Go To Heaven. After an colors. braJ!ge tickets are for un- the debate proper each man will de- nich, Samuel Simon, George A. ab!:!ence of a y~ar he retij.rned to dergraduart:es only. Tickets t)lat go liver one ten-minute direct speech Moore, Frederich Turnbull, William college and agam ga.ve .~ fme p~r­ with booths, which are for chaper- and five,rninute rebuttal. T. Winne, George J. Zippeti, H. for~?'nce as Paddy m The . Hairy ones are colored red. Sunday eve- Last year, Reuben Sorkin and Vaughn, Julius J. Sitney, John W. ~P~; He has on.e ~f tbe lead .toles ning will be the last o.pporturtity George T. Heffernan, both mem• Gurry, Robert W. Gurry, Joseph m S .S. Tenacity' which Will be for purchasing tickets at six: dol- bers of the class of 1933, were ad- Horvath nnd Donhld Vrooman. performed May 11 and 12, and Iars. On Monday they will be priced judged the w.i'nners·. The genet·al .... - o - . -- ag~£~o~~e/u~: 8 ·secrelal:Y of thE\ at seven dollars and will r.emain at topic was \The Sanctity and Valid- MOUNTEB .. ANUS TICI\ETS 1 H f' t d that price• T.icitets for undergt•ad- ity of International Engagements.\ Mounteban {>!. e 11 ~ appeare- as h d 'fl tl Tirke,t_c; for the Mounteba-nks one· of the players in \Hamlet\ and uates, and booths may be pure ase Tl:w speer c ques · on was an- 8 s • then had in1portant roles 1'n \Two· f b f t ,_ · 't d \R ~olved That Ger Prom Production, ' . . Tenaci(y. rom any mern er o ue cor;nm1 - nounce as, · e,. : · \ Gentlemen of Soho,\ \The Second tee; whether he Is the special agent many!s Insistence Upon Revision of will be on sale Monday afternoon tor the fra.ternlty bouse concerned .the y(!;rsajJ!es Treaty is n~t justi· and the rest of t-he week from 1:00, ~hpeep.'~erd's Play,\ and \The Hairy or not. fled,\ to 3:00 in Sillbmm Ball. .... Dea-n Emeritus Charles R. Brown of the. Divinity School of Yale University will sp~ak at th~ college chapel services Sunday on the topic \Facing Difficulties.'' Dr. Brown was graduated from the l:Jnive.rsity of Iowa in 1883 with the bachelor of art...<> degree and in 1886 he was awarded his master of arts degree. He received his bache- lor of sacred theology degt·ee in 1899 from Boston University, which also conferred upon him the hon- Ol'ary degree of doctor of sacred theology in 1922. Yaie conferred upon him tbe master of arts degree in 1911. He received the honorary' degree of doctor of div.inily from Oberlin in 1912 and from Brown In 1914. The honorary degree of doc-- tor of laws wa.q conferred upon him in 1915 by Wesleyan University, a~d the honorary degree of doctor of humane :letters was conferred upon him by the University Of Vermont in 1926. Lacrosse-Union vs. M. I. T. at Schenectady. Tennis-Union vs. Vermont at Schen~ctady. Stmd.ay Sunday Service Rev. Charles R. Brown, D. D., Dean Emeri- tus, Divinity School, Yale Uni- versity, Memorial Chapel, 11 a.m. Monday Noon Luncheon - Schenectady Alumni Association, Mohawk Club. League of Evangelical Students Meeting, Room 5, S. S. S. C. 3:30 p. m. Philomathean So- ciety, Old Chapel, 7:30 p. q~, Tuesday Payment of Diploma Fee, $15. Eursar's Office. Registration for Diplomas, Office of the Dean. Daily Assembly-Student Coun- cil Elections.

May said this will 9. \ ' . ~ 'Yo\,)1~ .:v--• .... ~----·gr···I i :\fPPtings ., I or ::->tudt·nt 1 Hocty To l ~t' t l .1.\lunthly I l NPxt Yt•ar I I I t I 1--------------· Tl ti l'i l't'll To HPcPive Dramutic::; HOlllll'S I l'riz,• I lay l_ ___ G ·---- 8.-- \'ol. L\' II., Nu. ;, I L;NION COLLEUE, SCHENECTADY, N. \ .. 1··1: II>.\ Y :\1.\ Y I. I ~l:~ I PRICE F1VE CENTS ~ ~-~- -------~-- --~~~=~ -·--· \---- ----- ==-=-==--================-\\\\\' Popular Orchestras .Jo 1!11 ll o ward Pa :vne Cas l As Female 1 T h i l't e en W ill He \'\\\~· \'\'. 11 ' ·r;..k.·~< 11 \' 11 '' ! -===================:==~~~~~-~~~~~=-~-~~~------ M • I)\ (,o 1 • 'Oht:llllt'd I rom ('ornmiltt•t•nu•n Enjoy ~teori~ ~Ise In 'l'ulaski' Adelphh· [Pfav ol 1808 dven .fl)rai!tatitHi . A t u t e' ~ H t J.> I) I·,, !ho• '\\\\lllt\ll<t' \' lh<o-o' wla .. Monthly 1\feetings Ji.,or Student Body Planned Next Year n1vers1 I s onor a nzt• aY,~w.-;,1, !•llldt:•-·· ]·, .. u.t\'\·'·· lh·· Hll'IL\IOJ 1•:. 1'.\:~,.;l·.:'lold·.H jllalllt' ~ ·•l I tlt· ,l llllll•! Pt ollt t'ulHliut Band 1h:tn Has Slowl'l' ll1h.\ thm Mo~t Nt,~To Orelws- ,luhll l' I \llt. J.;llii'Afl :•:-. tltt• ...tlltln•I td li••lltt', ~'w\'t•t·l llt1llH'.'' \'\.;l ... llt,J tllli:O, t•li\1' Ill lltt fill~ 1Jt•h.b d!ltl J'ltt!llllt.'lll .I :t :--('hoLt! dtlllHg !11 t·•,tll) ~f'.JJ-. .1' l•!liOIJ, !•<It llt• \1\,t\\\ ,d11 ttlltJt•-lt·d Ill tht•!!f Ill' \1 lJitHltH 1\llll· I' ill- llt.lll \Vho l:tlt'l bt•t·.tlllt' a pi tdt·~~.ti!Ltt a' 1,11 a•1d a dt:ilnatt· ... t ul . 11!1\t' 1 t•pt! l:tlltlll Il\~tdt• ht la~o:,v tlt·bqt }ll II' ,I l • 1\ ltlll, l': l'\' t Ill ; l ft '11\..t (t• (11J t' .t .·Jt•,ll dt• tl ~·r , 1111 ~~ ,. .( l' ,: 1' \ lit• \\ t'\ t ., It) I I 11 It J.l Ill t . t II dtt Ill· tl.tl lit· ._:.t\t' Ill·· llll}t't' Jt•ll t•l l)t'lll,_ :t 1'\11 !ltd J.II'JitJ!IJ:•·J, \\ c·ll 1d q •.... J !u 11tl' J· 1:! Ord\\ a~, ~mith, BPI ).!.t'l', Dia- llltHHl. {; nh·...;IJt•l·l,, Benrwt t. Ho.\ lane!', :-;troPill'l (;d 1-\t•) 1 t••tflll\ll and •ht· \ ttlo~ll· hull•t'. ttl \\ lttt·l1 I ltt·~ t.lt' t·l: til.', t ld .. t·l· :11 t' tt·p!!lllt d t.1 It ('lttJ!t· 1~. ll·un l:,·tt TJt,·tt l)t .om! \I lwt.t lit·ll.t l'ld 1>1111• .111 :\1• ltn l'~lig-atin~· (;muj> Submit:-: Rt-JWI't to :-;tudt·nt ( 'oundl On I'Ians for :\ t'~ l Y t-ar Flool' Space l 'ndrr Way Drawing; for Booth I ,oeations To Bt• 1\ladt• oil Wt•dt1l':-;day ,\ I lilt • II' 1 ( I t I hI- ,.t: I) • I' I\ Itt 1 II l,',t'Jt•d 111 tjltlto.ltt· Ill \t'' t' \~li1 1t·tJ It) I IIlii\ t·ll , .. Jt't'l dh lut 1 ht• tH' l'thlll ll·dJ·t·\,l,t'dlll llli..,I(!JtJJdt• 1..· I \\'ill. I II i 11• I J II 'i· fl ·tJ. t· tIt II! I ' t (I Ill It • I I I t. • I I ! II I ( • I l ; 1 t t I ' • 1.. I I I ~ lt ltl.clt· •d 'It~· 1 Jllt•· \\ht1 \..,,., ,. tf !t dill~: \lJt• t h.lJ.lt'[t 11-lit'-. nt !It'll llllilll,.:. ht !11t'I !Jft• ! 1 .1.\l\1' 1 i~>d Eaeh in Thrt'\' Plays \\ hitt•, 1:1\111\ n, K 11 ia tl,ml ~ki, :-;mit h, \-\ uulm:1n, llonllrt'd :\>:.tl• ,\lplt:t J>..tu l'ht. h.IJ•i'-' :--;\ ttll.l TIJ.·I.I .:\'11 1·~1' I hill. l~ c) Utulld ~1• Jl .. wo•li. ,\lp!t.t :\Iii :->t~lli.l, 1\.apj>.l :-'1.:111.1 .ttltl L.tlnhd.t l'1ll .\lplt:1. l~.dJ,h :4t•lllt•t.ul. Aqd •. t 1 1 11! 1 >t•ll.t Ish! ( 1 tlllll: 1 lh·l\•t ,!lid ;--;h'..ll!.l <.')11 I:u·h:titl l l,t\\1'. l·l11 !·'.·I, 1 >o·lt.t 1'1 ;\-;u .111d l'ht l>t·it,, 'J'l!,.to~: Juhll :\l~oflo-tt. llo·lt:t \'Ill ll<'it:t !'hi and Dt•vute Day to Fl'eshmen .\lt·,·ling at Beg·inning of Year To Bt• 1'-a•d fur Ol'it'ntation T\\'U n.atiunallv fan1utt.., ut t'ht•:-. tra,;, l•'h·l<'ill't l!;·ndo·I ~on and \\'1! laid Alexandt·t·, nt t· tHt\V wilHhn~ up E:'ngagP!tlt'nt,; and at t• maktn>; IJrPJ.Hll at ion~ to tnV.ldt· l~nton nt·Xt WPt>l< b~· playing at .ltlll!<~I\ 1'1\\' Bulh uf' tht·~t· ott\ht'~lttts t•njoy \\lei< national l'l'}Jl1tattull:-i and b.t\'t> t·:tlll Pd favo1ablt> ('ollliiit'lll \·VhPtt'Vt•r t hPy hu V<' playt•tl. l 'ptlll }u .... 11 Il\'~·tl <tl l·ollt .._:,, l'.t.\ rw wa:-: t•l, 1 l'l .. d t u l ill· .~\dt•lpllu ~~·~ ~t·h 11\ l'll!l~Idt•J ;1t lUll nf hh t'!i I!\ llt t't'~\' Jil }lll\ltl.dblll .tlld lltt I.dtllt'. A:-. a nu:ud•t•l· td. tl11-. t·luh ht· !t t•l to t:tht• p.ttt in :1 pro~Lilll Jdt\-t·nl t•d hv lht• dllh. la·tut t• tlw ,.,,;,, .. , .11 !~tiS \I'll<' pla)o. \l'til< Will tt·n bv a ~ tudt'llt and h·t ,.tJ PI\ t L·· lilt• ui· tit,· f.tlllt J\1 .... ·•·l't· .. tl. t: 11! t.ut dllt' ft'lU.dt· J•d 11 I'.· \lt .,, , .•• ,.ttd I bt· I uh•. llJidlllih\t'dl~ 111 llttpt ·J•,ll.ll I)Jll', .!llll \\ i\ }l :ill' :tl.f .,t h - W!'d ll}t • lJ,• i. I.., t· i till I,. \' It'\ I Jl \It tl\1 I ....: t ' I \'II I •.II \ l ,,., f, I I (II' I,., •t•- II' :--;t: tl,t' }lt'JJ }ill. l, \\••l~ .(• I ttll't·IlJ JHij tJ~' p: I., lhit' til h, hltt, Tltt' :\lollJt!t•l,.tlll\ ~ U!t>.dt I \\Ill l~:--1 \ ·p.--..tltltl, Punald ~l\ulttlll llt•lta Jllt•-t•fll lllltlt•t•Jl U(JJII'Id 1,;\-..llll'll !'p-llt>ll .tnd 1 1 111 ~~~III.J llt'ii:J, \\ tl !1 L:•dd ht·\ • lll',·lllll:.., ltlt' t•Illldl'lll ,..;t tlll• ~ ,\lu\Vt'l, I' t I'J•.t AJt,h-l, 1'}11 An·utdltlh loa l'lan ~lUlJIIllltt'J by L t'l.ZIIlf!Jitt·t• t'ulllJIIJ--t•~l uf Au~tin Fox, ·:l~•. I :.oltoh :-;,.l!H•t aJ, '3;,, and 1;ll~ t;Jb\\old, ·:H;, v.hit·h ht-. lH'e·n 111\t'-.tJgatill~~ till' 'ltlt' ...... tlllll uf ~tu­ dt·nt l:,uJy ~·J,·,·lJJJ~:-.., and applu\'t~d \\.t·dw·c tl.ty t11ght by tlw ~tut.!,•nt l'tnmctl. lllt•t·t mg-< \111 Lt· lu•IJ l'\'f't y · tjltlt·f t tlt' 1)1.11 l'lt·' Irl11Jl If''t-...t•ll lo! III- I Jllllfl' I•• u·htt•\t• l:t till' I :tiJtt• •t • 'I I '1 'I' t 'I' \\ ' . lil... I' I .11' ttctl dt.tud·· li.td l11· l\t'll ~111 ant• I ••til .IIi Ill~ l••l tilt· (tl.t \. ~I lit' IJI ,,f tilt' ol!:ll:t t!ll' til~ 1111/11 ,till It- •}., ~1, It\ h lJ•P t .tlld :-:,,~~1111 Pill I J;,,Ptll 'lt'(,t fo... V,)Jt• h ,1ft• !t11t•t'Il 11\llll~tl I'II/I' d.t\ '''-''ll'l , .. , \\',tl J, 1 Jltl ... , 1 lu!td·,. IJ'I\ bt• t~b! tlrtt·d Jlt··dd), ~l.l.\ ~~. lt \\',1 .tTlll•llllltt'd \\htrt tl!t t IJ!tll \I 1t t1Jt•11 t\t•llllf~ •,,,L•\ 1'\.•.., .11•· .t\\.11 ·lt··i u-u.dl~ 1 1111 1 t 1 11 .JUI!t'''-: •d -P!lt••l.\' \\:LH h:t\'t· !>luntby fot tilt• tit,..t flvt• Wf'Pkc< of \.!lief' ~.nd dt•ltc·:tlt• It· ,t111 t' ,,,.,' ;,•,td lit lli· 11\\\tl }ll''llllt.t:\' .td \.tll<'l'}lll'll 1 tit IJ11.·ltt h t\1' 'l•'t\IIJII •.dd'!l -I..:Iuftt·:llt' p.tll 111 Utlt't' tJ! S '11 •t \ I till• ,· .. ll··gt• \'o•:il·, and r .• r !lit• IPS( ~. enacl y s I u!: tlw ~··.II .;t lo-.o. t .. II•\ :\l .. nday <J~t No uthet !'tJilatJtolphi:l lt•:Hh·t i~ a· bu~y a:; \Vtllat t.l At .. x.ondo•I \\'ith oUt qUE:'S! ion ht• haH I\iHl'll I\ lttt· fott· quicl<ly uud lu,.. J,.,nd is !H·ittl~ 1 Pl'ogniZPd u:-; ont• of t ht• tint·~t 11f tilt' }Jlf:\:it'tll day utl'hP .... tl:tS Aflt>l :t t'titPful analy;-,b uf \'.tllllll, utu--it·al groups, Mr. Alt·Kalldo•t• do•<'itlo•d upon ami ul'Vl'IO!Jt'tl an ut dtPSt 1 a of no\'t•l rhythm and di~tinl'liv<' ,.;tylo• Tit\ spontam•uus and fa VIII a!JIP It·ad ion uf the va~t tadio audio·tw•• '\'' tlt•f intt .. ly plut•t•t.l this ut <' ht·»l 1.1 in t h•· futu· ~~at· C'la,;s. At tht> \Ant'lwragt•\ Mt. Alt•xant.l<·I and iu·, hand ha\< tt'l't'lltly t•umpldetl a t t•gul.u <'It gagl'menl at the 'Atll'hotag<·.' IIIH' ul PhiladPiphiu':; sma t tt·~t nig hi ••lui>,.; whf'tt' hi,; ptugtams of sm<><>lh nu·lodiuus n1 u;;;i<' \Vf'l t> bt oad<·a~tt·d l'll'Vt•n tim!'s W<'l'itlv f't<~lll \tH• Jowat Cohuubia !'\t.at1on. ~ T'hl .. utehto!-\tl:, enjoy,; unusual populat tTy on t.h•· eunlplht'S of tht' l'niVl .. t:-aty of !'t•nnsylvania, ( 'utnl'!l, llit·Xt·l, I lP!a wart•, LaHallt>, Hyral'll~P l\\nt\'t'l .... lf~ and Tt•mpl\ llnivPt stty By popular demand Wtlltat ol A lo-x andt•t's band wae Ltought 1>:11'1< It the Syraeu:-'P l'ni\·t•t\lty ''\Ill!'\\ lu;-;t wePI! Plltl afl<'l having pla\·t·d tht•te twil'e t->:tt!iPt Ill ttl•• \\l'at In Ft•lll U:tl y ho• playo•<l at I j.,, I J,.Jt ,. Epsilon llou:w at ('ol 111'11 and ...,IJH't ho· maJP \lll'lt a hit at that lltlll' !11· has bt•Pn t•ngag<•d to pl:t) :tl th• Navy Day Ball un .lttll<' I. 1-'lt>tl'ht:'I' IIPildt>I:-.CJil'..., ltll '11'!'->tl'l i :;omt>WhUt t.litft•lt'nl j'Jolll IIHJ\I o·od l.lltsc.i <Jl(.'ht-'::-.lta~ ill that tu ... IU\l·H 1~ nuue llanc.·t·ablt· .t,nd Ittctlt' th\th llllC thUll l!'i ll~lta.l)J t·XlH'('1t•d f;11Ili t•ulun•d uutllb Yt•l, ;\It I (t-ndt•t ~un'B IJllhH' 1~ 1\ut a:-. :--lo\\ a·. th' IllU~ll: uf tla~ t•Ja;--,:-.. \\ hu·l! l'lllhi :wt· Wayne Ktng, ( ltty I ,um!Hl 1 do, and Jan Oar·ht>r. Third A]lii!'UI'ltll<'l' un ( 'urnplls Thill b t'h~ tlurJ llll!t' tlt.tl Flt•l l'h.,t Ht>Utlt·t~un \\til h,t\'t' •'i'i\'at• •' un th~ l\Uill!-Hl~ lu U11lh uf Itt, jilt'\\ iuus appPaiHIH'I':-\ ltt .. ~cur t•d a luq.:t !\UC('t.~~!i and wtth an llllJHov•·d b.,nc 1 h<' ought to lll' t'\ t•n mot\ \tll ,., taining-. Hi;; ott'lw~tta ft>:dtllt •. 1 HUXU!JhUllt> lllHti h .. t alld ..J. Ill a:-.·~ . t't tiuu of th<' tng!H·sl l<'!Jlll<'. t'<!liH' t itt• d1 fflclllt 1•' ut ,till' 11lt1,._' ,,n,• ttl tlat· ''ltl'''·llt· ., ~ lit· lttll 1 IIlli' ld t llt• It• ••fl\11 t II t.o~ .\It t•: .•· t 1: I J!ltldllt • d Tidn1arsh Will Play Whitney Spilaks At \Rhapsody in Blue\ Siv;n1a Xi Initiation _\n\'il Cho1·u~, In a ~1onastt•ry (;;trdt•n. l't•t•r <;:o. nt :-;uih· On ~unday l~t·cital Prng-mm L!.·ht Jdt , ... Jtl I •llttJ\' .tlltll !.IUtllt:il tu :dl tudt•l\1~ ltHlijl!t f • lit• Jtlu~:l.tlll \\ lnt·h l)r TldlrJtl h .vill ntf1•1 ~und.t\ .tfll'llliH~tl 111 lll:-- Wt•PhiV til gall i ,,; Jt.d. Jntt·ttdf'd p11 .u.'l 11\· f(,·,. ('hddt .. n. tlw ruunht·r .. ,\'hi\'Jt lit• t1 t ~ ,f' t•t t•t! -...bt>ll(d Jtftt\ r• .•:--.JH't't.tlly .qqw:tllll::, to ~tudt·nl· ,tl till~ ltlltt' ol tl11· .\t'.t!. wllt Jl 'l.t-:- Wull< 1..: h•t't•tlllll~~ llHIIt' Jlll'\\'-ilH~ tlld t ht> lt•tha1 ~lt' ,.t ft•t·t nt ~pi Ill~·. fl)IJI t• Tl• t! I ( 'I• 1 It! t' Tht• · IOL<i''\d)o 111 ill•w. · nlw\y~ (llJ}'UI:II .tnd ltltiJ•• lllklt ·1111~~ \-\lilt •.• 11 h lli'V. tt·lHid.t•tl .tnd H•·t·tll .. ..,«·H· .·i.t,~l< :\[IIlllt•l Ill (i. With II' l.tlll I .ul Jllt•lo•ly tudn.tlt· lilt· \\Jdt· \.tli I I\' Cll I ht.o )ll!JlliJt'J ~ \\ ltJt !J )It •rJd u:tt·lt \\Ill plt~. Jo:qudl) ··,nit,., .IH' .ll • \'t•!dl~ '.t\tl\ J1 ( lttHll··-' ,tilt I 1\.t·h•IIJ) ', h111 t tutlt' i\'''lll •·J n .\1ot\.t lt•I \' { i.t I dt>tl.\ .1 tjlllt•l. lllt'd I l:tli\t' plt~•tt' Wl!IC'll Jllttdllt'l'· :1 dt· ·tJ .. dll. tt•·tful t\!ft•t·L In .1 -..uruLII llt.tlltlt'l I'A'u pl.1~fui 'lttlo.;h : .. •,h.t•lt'ili'• h\ (j(hl •I'll~. Tllt ,{!lltf\ (;tJI,iV :\l111. lllti ~l.ttt•)t tt~ lw \\'utldt·ll ~ ~tlltirt•r.,\ Pll'l t dt· \\' ~~· II'• t t'l \ t•l\1 I t II .. ·\ ttl' 111 'II h .. 'I'll• . 'tl , 1 1111 ('hoi l1 ·rht\' J'I'IJ~IIHII I••• I' 111 ; ,111111 Jl.•l••l I 1 t. t; II• · \Ill• It, 1 llo• I' t'lllti \I . ,, t, \' ' '\\ \I ' ' 1\ .. ••• t. 1-. I• 1\, I,. l:'•rt I : I • ~ I'\••' tl• I : \ 1 jJ . .... ,, \\ tl\•• l t ... \ •. d ,.... ,[,,,, 1,. 1• I·· ,;, t It' 11 l'o Hold ( ;oodridt-OuatH Odmte Tr~·cmts 1\tonda.:v llirN·tor nf (;. E. Rt•s(•areh Lah <;iH•,., Talk .\hunt :-;d- PtH't' and :'\Ian's llappim·...;s f\l t'l tl \\\!Ill l t \\'lllttH·\· ,,f IIH· c ;,.n J·:lt•t•IJ II' I: I' I .II { h .. II t ~~ 1\ l tht· Jll!t,,Jtt•- \1 ~~~!lilt ~\I ~I l.J!t :tt•:il \\-t•tlflo• .d.ty Ill:.., It' Willi .1 d~ ILllJIJt' :t.fdJt·:-o- \\hit h !till t•ol ,til Ill lt ll ... t• t•IllhU ... I.t.\'-111 Ill !lit• .iltd,t·tH't !t•l tilt' t)t ·.t·l••Jlllll 111 tit llt'l!ttlit lllt'}\Jl,!ll411l\' !1'\ ,I l!ll.lll· 1ul tttll qllt>Jin~ 1}11' ob·t.wlt·-. ttl t..:,t··tlll!llt h.tJIJillll' ..._ 1[1 lll1tl'.,., I'll\ l[tdl!lll'll~ Tn·· i!ttiJ.d\'~ lt:tllqtlt·t '\·' ~ llt•ld .!1 lht• .:\lull.t\\li <io!lf ('Itt!. ll•. \\ h.!llt'Y \\'.! ..... ~tqqou t•d 1t• pt·.lh. ut hr- ·IJ,Jlthu· .... · l1t· Jll!Xt·d ht- t.Jlt tlll1t1t ht-.... turtlt·.; vvtlh t:1IP .... , tltu\1 t ~.dt·: t•Jlll!lt' b\t.tlli.; ... t{ tc'tlll whntn L·· 'ttll th·· fatlh·l tt1 tht• m~'dt'lll -.r·I ,ttttlldt· Pa. \Vlntnt·~ t~~ld lltt\\ IJ,. lt,t:- lu t•(l ,,j, t't\'lll~ !ht !llitl !Ill l J1.liH 1 ol l.tlld l1111k~. Bat'oll \\a~ l'rophl'l To th1· t111ltd l•'r till'!..., f!1tt•ll I•t \\'h!1'flt',\ .tr'•'ll'tb 1 t•d tht• Jilt' 1'111 }flO _'I t• • 1 \1' t'l J'lldt• fll\\ .. tltf •I Jt•tlC't tlltl tilt• !ud hod of ~t'.t•ll 1 111t' J[l\t\ t~:: d !\ll 1: lt'\tl lu· ~.1nl Jtl J.. ~.\\ .\ 1 !1l\ll .. jt'''tlll•d 1\\'Pil1\ rwc ,.,lnt·,·ptt•llt \\lllih \.Vt·t, hun ·It t•d 11! ~~· 11 ·tlt•· ul ,,j ht- ~11111' Ht'h 1 .ltlltilll\l•tlt• tltpl.tnt·-< and 1\rt• \t!,t• (Jt tht• t• :\Vt·J11~ f\'o'tl ;Ill llltt tll\1' ILI\'t• ltt•t Tl IP.tliZtti.1 lttt t)Jll lJt•tHg tht• l!l1t•11H~ cd ~:tit lttllll tilt• twl':ln !tt uttht· 11 dt uth.t.hlt·. <'ht·ln J•. t ~ 11 I \'I' .. t 1 tl l I I I t .. II t 11 I I - tlJ:t•. }II \\ltllllt\ t'tllH'Il!tlt•tl 111· f.tll~ lh.tl W.t ltl!t•d With ii:IHt-!.hl tJitl l,tli\IJil' t·x lllljdt•' f1 1tltl !l.tllllt' .tlld llt•·l:ttliiP ln :trt-...\Vt·lltH' lilt' tnan v. hfl .t·-ht·d tt. tll:tn rrwlu•-. woJl' ,,f .t .tJt t't':o.:- 11t1f uf hfc· th.tll d() tnonhc·y or ot!It·t .tlllBJ:Il:- ''No 11\'IIH~ tllltq.! ... ~:11d !Itt· I:IIrloiJo.: .... ,·tt•llfl,t. 1....., lu•ttt•J ,,ff than rnan tf WP p11t dc•\\11 ihat '.._lJI·('t• ......... in \ifp' 111\an .... 1llt• dt·Vt•lup ntt·nt nf th•· c'tlltt·x. tht· J•!tl tJoll ot tl11 bt .!Ill Ill V...ilJt·}I Jt'~idt•-, IlLII!'. futl! ,. 1·: .. dli.t t !Ill\- .. t 1111· '\ Jl·t ~· 'i'lit•·l' \\l.11 \\Ill lt•t't·n·t• 'l\\ tid-.. ,,f lllt'lll ;tit Ttltlfll~l.\\ ()Jd\\.1\, .II' ,J! .\!ban~·; ('I all•·· \\\ l:t·I;JH'tt. •I II.titt .. ,d. l'11nn. F P··.tn J!,,,l.tnt·•· »I L<t~l.<ll~•·\\ili<- .Jodlll fo: \\'lit!\ I 1 • •d :'\l.llo~•tt ~l!l'\n ~ Ht·r .:t·r t.f ljllll:.!ld~····Jt·lt': l~lllll'l t :\1 ~:) tl\\ 11 Ill ;o-;·aJ:nt.tt' l.,tkt·, ~~~~·h·t:d ~1 I>I;t nJniH!. fl'li\•'Y P t;Titi'...,Jlt'I'IC Pou~· to~-. \. :-;IIIIi h .. \l•I .tltaltt Sru1t h. ~tnd I ;t•tll _,. ~tlottllt'\ .Jt ut S('ht•!Jt'l Ltd\; \\ dll.tlll 1\\\.'t.tt li.IIW~lu, ol ::.yJ,tl 1)-..1', .tltd .ltl qdt ,\ \\ I)IIJ)Il:l/1 •tJ Tltl~· Ot'thnt~ in h·!llinillt• ltn!P.., ()JdWa\· ~~~~.! ... lt·J:Ullllllt' ttlt·· Ill ~IHIIII<'t' . .:\l:<dt•tltli.-1<' \Tito• lilt Ill dt·J. \i<:Vtl~ntan and til Eu: t·Ht (J\:--;t·tll.' \T 1 w l!ait·~· .\po• · H··nnttt tiJ .... t :q,J~t•tJ•·tl \\ith tl~t· ~tudt•• Jll:t\'PI:-'. a -.uh .... tt!J.st\' l.!lt1Up !o tht• :\l~tJllt\fPb.tnl\', Ill .. \JtL\!1 l {,qdun· \~lonn...:hlllt>. · t ~u·n playt·d t lt-.tdlll~ tt~lt· 111 A I'. Ht·dwt t- ·T\\tt cJ,·nt,t'llll'n 111 ~oh\ ·· .snd t,\J);: ~Itt• J•.tit ut tht• \\tlt• IT\ \~t·tulld :--:.h,·plll'td'·, lJh~ ... :ltt• tiftt·,·uth l't n '~ll\ til~ -tt 1 1'\ p't~ !It• \\,ll .i}')H',ll t· ••tlt• 11f' thP \\tJtl\lllt n .n .. S. ~ Tt•ll.ll'llY.\ thP Ittt•nch, ,,trh tl\ ttl lw 111 t···t·l1fl'cl dlltln~: .JunJ••t lJr,,rn \\'•·•·l<t·nd. :lhl, II :~lid 1~ l!tt~lallt't' h:t .... ap(w:tl•·tl tn a \.til ,.t~ ttf tolt•-.. Ill th .. ~t· pl.ty:- '\\'ttl i't·l l<lttrnllwl \ It\ A A :\1tln,·. \Ftt•tt. \\'ht' h Ht· I tJnltt·d b\· t'tJdtn.tn ill !•IJ•. ·'Tilt' Jnt tltdt·t. · 1 :\·•·t \ tii<Jtl tnd •n \Tht• Ha11r t\Jll' Ht· \\tt .... ,. ·}It'• :·di\ t'ltt· tJ\t• ,1 } lt d II Ill · E,.,.,, 111:t1l · ;tnd !..1:--- l'••IWt'lt:all :ttJtl lt·t·lt ·1 .... t11i\•J Ill (I;'\, :1,-.. J•.'i\ \\'t•tt•• .ttJd l:ltl~Vll tu;..!t•ll.t•r lt:t\t· d f' ... l ~' li t•tl 11.: j t t Jl\'~ t•lf t't t , f I )j t f\l• Jlflld 1 lt•1Jttll- 111 tilt• ~ltllllllt•htlll•l.', -IJJ!'t· 1~~:~.: at11l lull h HI•' ltttddtrn· .t lit>\\' \\l!t'Lbtlltd t''JII't lt•d tu IH t'(t: Jjtlt•fptl tht-.. fl}llllth B•·r~-:•·r in :--;,., •·•·ul !'Ia~.., l!t·J ~~1'1 h.t' ai-.o pi t\l'd 111 a V~tl t ~>1.) nl !edt• · lrt · tldl pl.l) .1 .... ~~~~1\\ · Alldilll It· .. t.nd t.ht J ••• ,tt.\ J.' ~I 1 <I<\ II :-;null! \Till' :\l.oll \\'1.• • \\ \ulolu ·1 t ;\ t ,, 1-I,•.t\ t·ll ... \ll:t 111l• t. · .!1111 \Till• llatl~ Ap•· ' 1-:v..Jatl .. o\\ ,),1 \LI-. :t·-.t:talll t·lt·t' ttW!Hll 111 ··ff:ttlllt·l' dUd rn:a-tc·t •'UI pt•ll1t•J lot .til t hP }tl.ly, ..._llll't• ~1~~. ~~~:~;~. ;tud th,:... ,\I'll \\o~- tn:~elt· a:-.:-.()t'talt• :-t lh'' lllUI\:tf:t•t }It• Wtll bt· :--Lagt> tn.~t.uagt·t 1\1''<' )t'dl On I •t• tJt t•~u II rnc!ltth 1111 a d .. tlt· ttJ bt· dt•~ Eve r~day ..~I e' l~·tllllllt'd t.,~ ,,,.. 'lt.lll tll.tll of the ,.) { Ullll~'l} \\ ilclra<', I' a risian .\ ut hor, l 'st:>s :-il\illfull~ Evohed .\diun In l'l:u:t• of Ddailt·d Plot .\ • :0. l•ll .d t·\.:lluJtlt• tlf F1 t'lll'h )\'I \\'.ll dt.Illtl, \~. S,, 'lt•Il.tt'lf.) th1· ~lntllllt .. b:tllh.'.-... PltJIII Jl!udlll' 1tlt0, 1--.. lilt· \\tJIJi of Hilt' ul' lht• bt•,...! l..!\tJ\\Jl l'tllJlt'fliJHIJ:J.J) dt,tllLt.ll:-1 , <'lutlt•• \\ildt.ll' Tht· dUlht~l t. ... tJf ptct\'illi'J.tl b11th ..\1 :\\tJIIII' IHt·,·tut~ Jttt in~~ tla~ fil·.t :1\t• \\t'l'li:-i tht· 1tt·:,htul•n. I ule.i Wlll IJt· Jt·.td, .J.~ \\('11 a:--. tht• \'oll~ttlUtlull .,r II\· :->tud•·nt ('tJIIIi<tl. Ill utul't tu .1.--..: L-·1 111 tlw ~-;t .. nt~tal tJtll•ntatJun of llH· ftt· .. hm•·tl. Tht· J•bll ubo jJtu- ' tdt·-' that :->tud,·nl Hudy :O.lt·t·tin~~ will bo· h..!,[ Ill Utt• Old Chupt•l. l':\t'l) Irlt·t·ttn;.:. .,.,ltall lw opt•Ilt>J Wtth tlll' ~Ul~~lll!; uf ~ l'ollt·~t> :-.oll~ utht·l· t!.an tho• Almu :\lalo·r uttt.l duol-'tl wllh tltt· ~tllglllg ut \lit• Alma !\lulPr. Tlli~ pt<><'<\dllt•· wtll b·· aJoi>It•d to t•:otablt~tt u g 1 ••alt•t f:lllultanty wttll the ~ung~ ,f the eu!lt·gt• and for the <JIIt·nt.iltun uf ft<·shmen. Inti li1, l11ng I•· td•·lll\t• tn l'.tl i · h • l'arliunwntary l'ru<•t-dure lll.t•lt· huu .1 I\'' ft·i·t t'tt-lll''i'\ht.tn lluWo'\t·t. i••· ;.,,_, till' 1 11 ,. tttd< ., 1 Tht• l'ulllnlltt\\ ha,; ptuvitlt·t.l that lwtllt-: .d)lc- .II dt·t tch hllll. Plf ffllll. -.ttll\l Parltanlt•lltUIY }JIUl't>dUu.~ will ht- tlll~>lilldtng, \nd Wlllt• Ill- Lt• ob,l't\\l'tl Ill tilt• t·ontlud of all pl.i~ fttllll :t Jlttltlt ,,f \'It\'\ I'Jitltf'l~ dtitt•l•·tii lltllll ill tl.lltlJ;d t•UIIuul< I'ht•J ,. 1' ltlll hill~ l'.tll 1.111 Ill hi pl.t) ·'· lo., :-i) mplltlH'Ii•· Bramati.,t ~tnclt-nt Body :\1~•·\mg '· Fur t.h<:'t- lll<llt'. tht• to•:.ulh uf all l'UIIl'~P uth· lt·tic cuntP·t;; t~dung plaf't--' ~inl'e the la,..t mo•t·ltllg uf !Itt' ~IUtlt>nl Bolly o~hall bt· I<'JIIIl to·J by tht• <·a plain of ..ttty lt·alll wliwh Ita~ t>llga~t·t.l in a S. ~l.tllUll Tutk.t·J.ltt:\l\d•tll (',.n l'olllt•,.,t, ui if he b ul:J,t•Jlt, Ly the tln,·ltl'.d l'l.t~ ., .~:ty ..... \.ildt·tt' ntanagt•r uf tht· tt·unl. t'h•.til) .. tiHi 1- ...,~II1Jlt1htl.• V~ot'lt.,lJf F\ollo\'rlll~ thl' ~jJJ.Huval of thi~ '\''\~ .11 .dt \''ttl.tll~<'llt.d. llt· pt t- pl:t.n. J:<:liwulll !Iutton, ~1 nwvPt.l ·•·nt-.. tllllifl.H\ ,.h.tl.tt•ft·t \,liu .til' that tlw ~tttdt•Jtt Cuuru·Il ap!Jto- 1\ttl ·II llllll.!i to !Jt• lu\t•d t•l h:tlf'd Pllatt· $!'tO tu t!t•ftuy 111 patt the ex- ·1 ~ ltlttkl l11lld .111d toll' I d•·t{ l{i- !Jt'tl:--.t':-. of ....,t'tllul t'OJ11Illf.'llt't•lUPilt UC- ftt'l·t•lt .1!1' .ltliUt.tt•d lJ\ pJ,·ttlt'nt d tlvttH·\'· Tht· ntutrun ·wa~ (:atriPd by •·tllullltH t'll.tl ru.Hlt!t :--t tlu•llt-t'l\'t'\\· t hi' ('uunctl, togt•lht>l with a rPcont- n\t ''\io·n:l). l>ut 111 tho· <·utlltll••ll lllt'lldatton tha.t \lu• f\t>nlut banquet td.l•'t .u t. \It v\t'J~d.,y. 11\tng.\ CtHHiuittt·t• ~uUuut a Ludgt.·t uf their \ 1:dl.H' ll-t'-. til) t·l;tbol :tlt• \-t:t!..!t' t•Xpt>!lJ.ttlli\P:-1 r,·, !llli'Jll•·. tlltl l.1l .. •· 11•• lt'L·'t'l \! It \\a., anruJUtlt t•J that a tllt-t>ting ··itttt.•X•·~. · ·ltutt:·. '\\lit\.\ :tlld ,.f \111• :-;tudt·nt BuJy wtll lw held. · utt.Jllt 11• t1:t~ lltt 1 1 ),,1 IJtlt ll ... t·- 'l'ut•:--da} ut ltJ u·d,Hk in the Me-nt- • dl'lllllt JJicl\llttlllt.~ :tllltJil .... ktll \ntlal l~ha}wl ltJ vuft> upon tht• plan !111\~ t<·\;d\t•d tiHl ~~UH!t-d. 11\\\.IHt.: tot ~tuJt•llt l~oJy !\lt•t-llllg::i and to lll!HI!hl~ lt~\r\''JJd :1H 11\t'\ll.dd.· 1 \11 hold t'lt'VtloH; fut Ilt•Xt yl'al'::) Stu- t·lu- 1••1\. ( ·unnin~ Tt•dmil'ian \ }I\\' t'\ t'l. III :--}•it't- uf tlw It 1tur.d H('(H;i',T .\I'I'J.ICATIOSS Ht ,,f Ju:-; pl!J~·~. \'IIdl:tt' I· uht' 111 11w 1nu-t ctHintng tPclllllt't.tn:-. 1 n tJ 1 ,. HtHl~~~·t fur Ill!' att' ll•Jv..· avatl:IUle llJ,•:ttt I tuda~. :-ottH't' lly lllt·.ilJ.\ ut 1 .• t tht· l~ttl .tl. uftlt.'t' fed· .Ill.)' :.tu- tln· <.tJI!J.1lt'l11 ~llflt .. :-.:-Jlt•-,....; uf }ti--. 1 dPllt 1Jfl!,tlll/:11toJl Ill' 't<li\'ity Whil'h pl.t~ ·. lit• 1' l'tl.tlll<·d tu ol>latll ..r llt.ty do•,..ll t' to apply fur ~tudent ,.,.,, th.11 ,til' J;tto·lv .iltu 1 n,.o] b\ Flltlib f••I Ill XI ~<'at. In otdP!' to fll'ttly 1111:-..ltt pl~tyWil .. ~!hls. T lt'tt'l\t' flJ,. tut\.-ldtJ.lli•Jil uftht>Tax AIIIH•tt:.:h a l<tt·wh {>Ia). \~ ~ (',llllllilt\'· lh•· t' l>tulgPb< lllll-<1 bP i't'll;tt•Jl.) 1, dl:o .til t\lltt'llt'dll LtV l()i\ltd .tnt1 .tttd .ft'!\''-dt•d at ttlt,. tlllt'•·. 1t 'v\'.t~ pb)ot'd 111 fl.tnsL 1 .t 111 r 1 Ltll ...... tlo., otflc't• llttl Jatt'l' th::tn l>y Sulnty lloW.ttd ull .Junuaty :.!.j \\t·dtu·\l:ty. J\.l.ty !l. Ut~:.!. and 11.1.;-, bt·t·n oltt>ll lt'l.l\t·d 1 ~------------------, 'The prom to bo• gtvt•ll by tl11· da~ of l!l35 will bl' till' lit~~ oil<' tu lt·a tUlE' a balt.l<' of ltlll>'l!' In addt!Joll to this, nPKI lo'ttrlay·~ ptom is 1 ht· first danC'P to bP gl\'1'11 hy tl11• da~> of l!l35. The slow 1 hytilmt<' nu·lo dit>H of Will at d AlPxarulPI Will lu• In <'ontrasl to ttlP swif!Pt fox \tot tunP>~ of !<'ll'l<'ht•l Ht•ndPI ~on. 'l't y 11L1t ·· fot t lw ( ;uotltlt h 1 hl.i 111' ••X1tlltJHlfOJ1t'tlll:o dt\'b.att• Will td{t• pla.C'I' !!<'XI ~lunda\' at a 1!11 Ill Ill•· otltl dt:lJII'l. and. tilt' foolll lltt'li ,•hl):: .. n ft'ctll'I th\ t·.tnd!tl.ttt• .... wtll dt· tutt· Tltlll\lay .• llll!t' 7. <>II .1 ·Ubi•·• 1 tlot \''t antwlltll'Ptl. tfJillltil ~1\t·I t't•tHhHI, thdtty ttl C'\Pit'tllllf' nn•··~· t'!l\.'11 tHHllt'tll.\ \\ iHiifiLlJ.i h.1 ~ }ti I fl I tfl t )If' 1111 i Ilt'\'\' :tlld h(l\1...,1' ,.,tall fnJ t}lJt't' \'t':tl' ltt' 1\1 t '. tll\t'. :- tih-t.H·tt•... 111 and w1ll bt· h11H,\ JlJ,tJt.q ... :,t·J llt·Xl IJ~ tilt• ~~ .~hlH!IhttUtl l'Ja_\.iloll-,f• Ill' The Junior l't om •·ommilll'<\ Ul gp,; fralt•tnitio•;; to pUt<•ha~\ 1111'11 booths as :-luun u~ pu~,:-.ihlt~ !'lu that th~ d!'<'ul atur\ !':til lwgin Wilt It on the gymnasium Parly tll'xt wt·t'k The U. 0. Simmon,; Company ut HurtfUl d, Cunnt•rll!'lll, whlt'h holt!~ the contt'llC't fur I ht• dt•<'DI atwm<. will anive in town •·tthPt Tut·,da) or· WPt.!nPst.!uy tu iwgin wot k and it is impPrativP that ltll' t·unmHtlPt· know at that tinw how man~ booths to t•l!'!'l. ll!IIWIIl~\ fot lht· location of buut.h:-< will bt• mad\ on WPUilP!\ltluy Uli' Ul'tllal lllllt' to Ill' announc<:'J Jat<:'r, Buy Prom Tid,t>ts ·nit· <itJdt tt'h l)uant· th·h,t1t• , .• lu·ltl ~·ac:h yt•al duttng ('t,UliUt>nr·t•lllt'lll \\.'t>t'J\., \Vtlh ('lllll}H'tlt lOll O}'t'tl tu :o.t l1 dt'llt:4 or :tll t•]:a..;.:-;(•:4. A gPJlt'l :tl topic ts gtv••n afl•·t· th•• ltyout.~. and til<' ~pPC'ift<• quP:-tton 1:4. annolll1t'l'd at ;·l 00 on tht\ aft~\I noon of tlu• dt•b:ltt·. whll'h ts lwld at ~.IIIJ jl. Ill 111 th•· ol<l t\h.tpd. Twu pttt.t'\· ,.f twt 111y olollal>< 11nd tlwty doilat,, .\II\ aw.,tdt•d to tht· lu•;....t ~r~~·.d\1'1 ... ThP~P JHIZ.t·:-i WPI P P~tabll:....ht>d. t lJ, ill:-1 lJy l\.:1:1. J.tBlt'!'i (;tnHlJu·ll, \(~I. .tntl thP ~pc·c,tH1 hy Ih. Alt·xandt·t IHlaJH\ '7X. to pttJtnot~~ :-.tu(lt•nt 111 I t 1 l JISt 111 t>·X[t'lll}HJI :lllPOlL .... ,pi'~II\1 II).', To rlw tJIIPI\,. will' •lt•-lt11y IIJt• !Jl:lt'l'\~llltth of I~nn~~f,·llo\\.' by .... ,•Jc·n ltft<• dt-c'u\\l'llt\-. l lt \\'hiliH'} II' tninclt•d iu-.. .aiHlh'llt't' tlttt tlu• ~.l~\ !tnt ~t:tttull ..... \\ohtt•li licl\f' t.thf'll tllt> pliU'l' ol till' .•llllfhlt\• ,1llc•W flt,•ll .dtl'tHI.t11t .. illtlff' tJIUt' 11t clt'\t'lt•JI ( ht•ll lllilld .... Ell<'I'), !ltu·d SpPUk \'t'il.l . · l>l.IJnund lud ,·h.tt.J,·tt•J p.111-.. in \Andtut·lf• .... :tlld ti11 Lton.\ \F:tlllt and thf' },llt>l · by l.urd littll:--~tll)' \Tht• :\1.-tli \\'ilu \\'ouldil I I;,. Tu J{to:t\'t>Il.\ !tlhl \\Ill :tpf't'.ll Ill tht· ,·uiJJltl~! .Juniot Ptntll pttHlllc·t 11111, S<·w Yotl< l'tt;. Ttl\ht•h fot ill•• ptududt<~ll Will lw ott :-;.tit· :\1unday Hft•·t fltl(tll !t111l tlu lt·~;t o1 tltt• \\'t•:·l\ t11•ltl 1 1111 1u :~ 1111 Ill :-;ililtll.ltl IJ.t\1. ll Difficulties.. Tu I .. Faeing- Bc Dean Brown\s Topi<·! I t;ttu•,hl•t''.. t'Jt-..1 :tppc•.JII'tl Ill I~itld I Jun.::tnv·, 'Tiw <;,d~ of th,. ~l~>llll I.Jill\ ,,;HI t·lwn h.td .tn llli!\'Italll !•att in \\\'lllg~ ll\<'1 l•:utopl'.\ :tnd Tht· !llht•t :-JH'.tlu•f,.,t)ftht•t••:t•Jl!llt: .ll..;n Ill tht> p.IIOdy on ttll:-- :•l:ty. lit· \\Pte llt. t'll\tit\ t: ll11td. ll'ltttllg play.·d 111 •i.t/-.wuttll)'~ \Til•· Littlt- ptt·.Jdt·nt .t!Hl ffi.J .t.tt1:1 ft'J ltll tl:1· ~l:tn\ and h.td lhl' lt~:ul Ill 'TWtl dtnnc•t, 111. l•:d\\;Jitl I·:llt'l). n.tttotl.ll <iPntlt·tut·n ,f ~~~h,/' .1~ Wl'll a:o- :1n t't'l c·Ltt~ ~>I :-\H.:Jna X1. I>t. A \\\. llliJIIIIL!llt rnlt· Ill ·'J•:\('1~ Ul.tll.\ }ll':tll 1-:lllt'llllh l 'h II\\' H.! l~!tJ\o'¥11 ,,f tllt~ l>i\lHII\ ~tlttHd ofl Yal<' t•tll\l't '''~ wtll ,·1\'·''' :tt !ht I •··>lit ~··· o·llapl'! \'1\\il\t·· Sunday uul th.· tuptt• \l<'<.it'IIlg llJfflt'lliltt•s.'' I ~t.tY. Jll t·:--.!dt·nt ul t ht· H. P. 1. dt:1p tc•I nl ~igllt.l X1 :IIlli .lttllll • ~lttlt'Y. v:tlt•tltc·tort.tll ,,f l~lllun'-.. ,·Lt:--.- td' ·:~t ~ntith, llou~~· :\otanu~t·r ll1. Htuv..n v..1s gr;u!U.tlt•d frnu1; l)tJll!~l.t· ... :-itnltll w.l .... ptoflt'tty tll:tll tht· 1'111\t'l!ooll\ uf ln\\:l lll txx3 \\Jth t~t'l 111 H•.J:! .. ttHi lloll ... P ht.lll~q.!t't lht• b.tt'hP!ot· 'ur att.., dt•gt t·t• and tn dUJlllC: tlu·: ~~·.11 l.X...,Ii ht• 'A'.r:. av...utlt•d lu:~ tll:i·lt•J ut Al•tllh till Suottlt mtd•· :1 Ill! :!' :u t: tl••J'lt'P. llt• tt·o·t•t\t·ol ht' 1> \111· ! till' llllllt·ll'l 111 ··Tl~t· 1\.l.tll \Vl11• luL ut ~.H·tt·tl lht•olugy dP:.~It>l· 111 Tonight !khubo·tl t'lnh t'.Jil!\t•ll :\1Pll1UI- t:t! ( 'it.op<'i, X 3tl jl. Ill. Miss I 'lu.,ltt• \Vt•lt-;, ac<:·t~t ttl~ at tbt. Tumul\l'uW B.~e·•·kdl t 'niun \>! C'ult('-llt> at S·· htollt'o'l.Hl~ Tt.l<\il l •ntun vs. llamilton at ('lmtun. I ... H'Iu!->M' l,.nion \:->. Sl'hPnPctaJy. 'f,·nltlS t'nion v:;, Sl·lH•J, 'l'1ady. Sun tilly M. I. T. at V t\llllullt at f{nnd.t y fll't vi<'\ Rt'\', C'harlPs H. l~t <~Wn I l. I l .. llt·:lll E::nH•ri- 111·. llt\llill~ :-;, ll•u•l. Y:lle llnt- \'•·t·-dy ~1\11\\ ''\ ('h:qwl, 11 <I Hl. MonthLy Noun Lunc·h•'on !·khf'nPdatly Tit•kpts an• mat.IP up in difft•t Pnt colors. OrangP tic'l«•ts ate fot un- dergraduates only. TtC'l<et,; that gu with booths whkh arc for ehapPI- unes are culorPd red. Hunday t'VL'- ning will be thP last uplJDI tunity for purt•hasing tll'ketH ut stx dol- lars. On Munday they will Ill' pr in•d at ~>even dollats and wtll tt•nwin at that price. Ticltets for unJ!'I\graJ- uates and buoths may h<• pUt<'hUHt'd from any mPmbl't' of' th<' commit- tee, whether he is the special agent for the f1·aternity house concerned or :not. ThP !'alld!d.tlt•, who Will II~ out Monday wtll Pal'll tall< fur ftH' tnitt ut<•s on '-lilY >llhJ<'<'I wllato·v<'t. AI th•· tlt•hall• pt opt• I pad! lrlllll will tk 11\'1'1' OllP {t'll-llli!lUit• ditt·t•t ~JH'Pc·h .tn'l fi\'P-ntintttP Jt~buttal. Last Vl'at, lti'Ubt·ll Hotl<in and C ;t'tiJ ,!.I' ·T. 1 fpffPilliln, hot h Illt>lll IJI'I' uf !Itt• ,.j,,,, of 1!133. \\'PI<' :11! jti<lg<'tl t.h•· Wlllt\f'l''- ThP f.:<'llf't\:tl (t!Jtll' wa> \1'hl' S.tnt t ity a ntl \'.tlid itv of Tntt•IttalitJH:Il I~:n~::n.!Plllt'Ht\.\ Thcl :-.pt·c•Jlll' qtu·-tton w.,., .ttl noun····d [l,, \H~PsOI\'Pd: That t:t·I ma.ny·s In:-<tst t•tH'f' llpun Hevt~tun of the \'er~uilles Tre:Lty i:; not JU,ti fie d.\ ~t·\f-'1\tt'Pt) Illt'llliH·I~ nf t ht• pit':...· t't\1 •Jltfll ('l.t:--• Wl'll' ltlllt:tlt·tl I .. : .. lt1 It ,\, nd.~. l'h.lllt·, l:-0 l~t idgtll'tll I•: I , tn I·:. ( 'l:qq•t•t . .Jo-t•ph II. ('ntl , .. i. Il.ttnld !•:. Ellttlwtn. Ftanl' li<'l'\ nu·h, ~HJll\IPl ~ill ton, nt•Ot ~I' A .M<~oH'. Ft<•tloottcll Tnt nllllll. \\'tllt:~m T. \\.ttl!!<'. < ;,•ot ~·· .J. ~IPJ\'ll. I! v .• u~llll. J ulitb .I Stl II<'Y. ,)ithn \\' l;ntiY. l:oJ!H·tl \V. C:utty, .lt>-<'J>h JJ,,r\:dh ·!flll llnnnltl \'riiOtll!tn. II ~101 ;o..;TI·;U\:'-<1\S TlfiH:TS Tnl.••t.: fill' tl!P M<ntnt .. ba-nl<c· }'llllll l 1 todUl'ttol1, '!4, ~. 'T<'tt~u·Jtv · wd I i.J!' un oalt• Monday aJit'l nuon and thP lf'HI of thP WPf'l! ft·orn 1 011 to 3:00 in Silliman Jlall. \\'oultln't t;tJ Tu l·lt-a\t'll\ Altt•t an lX~!D fiolll Uu.tull t'ni\t•t...,ll:_.,, \vh:clt! uilsen<'P ol a yt·at ito• 1!'\Ut Ht·d to al-o <'<lllft•ttl'tl upon htlll tho• !ton ' collt•g,• and :u4:~111 g:t\t' :1 ftnP JH·t o!.tl:Y dt>glt t' uf tltH'tcll nf :-actt•tl [11 rtn<IIH't' ·\ I ',uldy in ' Tl11• llid I y t.J.,.,,j,,gy Ill Ht2:.!. Y :1 ]p l'Cillfo•ll P<l Ap•·.\ II·· h\ niH' .. r lht' j,.,,l I Ilk~ ll!H>Il hill! !Itt• lli:t~lf'l of :tlh •IP.:tl'l' 111 \S .S. '!'t•nao·tl\\ wl•wh wtll Ia· Ill 1!111. !!<' Ji'<\l'i\<'d tlw hnnot.tl\ J>t'l fut lll<'<i I>.! a} .11 .t.nd 1~. and dt'~lt'l' of dDt'lur of oli\ tnity fllH;l! :q~:un on .lttllt· h. Obt tlln in 1~11~ ~ttlli floiii Hlo\Vn in! ~ttoPbPI i ... ·.t·t'tt1.JJY t•f tl!f• Ltlt. 1'hP honot:tly dPgtt'l' uf tloc Alumnt A~\wt.lltun Mohawk Club. L<·.Ig\IP uf I·:vang•·lkal f\tuo!Pn!<-l ~1Pf'ting, Hooltl !i, H S. S. C. 3 3tJ p. 111. f'hiloma thP,I.n So· <'tl'l). Uld ('h:qu•l. 7 3LJ JL m. Tut>c.,day l':~ylliPllt o(· 1 ltplulWl Ft'P, $15. Hur~.tt ';-; Uffi<'P. RE'gistt ntion f<~l l>tplutll.tc·, U ft lt't• of the DPan. Jt.dly A,;;t·mhly Htut!~nt Coun- l'il Elediono. :ylolltJ1c·bJnh-. Ire· 111 t tJ!J•t·~trt•d :t·, tol of lav..·~ W:l:-- (·t·llfl'llf'tl t1J,.•l1 hnn I on•· of tho· pl.tyt·t,.; Ill \l!a!llll't ·and in WI:'> by WPs!c•yanl'lll\t'l\lt). anol J 1ht 1 11. had itrqu•Jt:JIIt tttlt·~ ill I•TWll tht• }It,nut.tiY tlt,t!ff•t• of dt.clut nf n .. nt!P!Ill'll of St>ll<>.\ '\Tht• ~l'('lilld I' hltlllanr INI<'l\>l was ('1111lt•IIPd upon I HhPphPtt.l'\ l'lay,\ awl \The !laity him by !hf' !TmvPt~ity of Vt>t!ltont I Ape.\ in 1\J:.!ll. :.....-------------....!

.. , Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1934 \.tl. Oausa Per11a PaTole .daaai\ FouNDED 1877 ~ssoeiatt~, @~~~.iat~ 1hts~ -.;-;: 193) ~~ 1914 ==- The off.!clal newspaper of tne students of Union College. Published Tuesday.s and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring r·ecesses. Publication Office, The Gazette P~ess, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post OffJ.ee as Second Clas!l Mail Matter Subse1·iption price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywher•e In the United States. Editorial Rooms, Sllllman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Scnenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communications to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi Psi Lodge, Union College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway ..•...••.. Editor-In-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg ........... Business Manager Donald B. Moulton ....... , ... Managing Editor· Joseph A. Woolman .............. News Editor Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor Thornton W. Whipple .... Cit·culation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. Anderson R. North A. Stevenson V. Gilber-t V. Trumbull ----- Issue Editors: J. Anderson, A. Stevenson Reporters Contributing to This Issue M. Bedell R. Cohen W. Ferguson C. Garrison F. Feldman I?RIDAY, MAY 4, 1934 W. Horstman C. Marshall R. Passenger c. Nessen N. Stewart characterize it have been previously men- tioned in th.ese columns and it is not our in- tention to repeat om· past g-rievances. We have heard not only the usual com- plaints that some professors, mistaking thE review pel'iod: for a reading period, have as- sigHed extra reading, but also rumors ex- pressing new sources of dissatisfaction with the way the review pel'iod is to be conducted this year L>y several departments. Pel'haps the most serious gTievunce which has come to om· ears-and we l>elieve it to be a justifiable one--is tha.t a few profes- sot·s are planning to give quizzes imme- . diately after prorn weekend. IH fact, we have heard of one course in which an hour examination is scheduled for 8 :oo o'clock . Monday moming following· this wePkend. Several students, we undeJ·stund, m·e plan- ning to celel>rate the occ~lsion in p1·oper fashion by attending class in full dress. The reason given for holding the examination at this time is that no other time can be found for it. While we l.Jelieve in the enforcement of reg-ulations, we also believe in relaxing them when circumstances justify doing so. The fact that the seventl hour examinations scheduled for the week are so close to the final examinations and follow on the heels of Prom Weekend, it would s.eem, constitutes sufficient 1·eason fot· modifying- regulations. A thorough preparation for an hour ex- amination, we believe, requiTes several days, -\\\\'-===========\\\\\=====-\\\\'- . and to expect students to do all their study- WHY HAVE A GOLF TEAM'! In its first two contests of the 1934 sea- son the golf team managed to compile the unenviable record of two defeats by shutout scores. In 1933 the divot-diggers scored one victory, one tie and susbtined four defeats. In 1932 the golf team did no better than earn one draw in six matches. Fur·ther than those figures, it is interest- ing to note that in 1933 the golf team showed a deficit of $226.69 at the end of the season und in 1932 it showed a deficit of 226.71. The ing the day l>efore and specially at a time when they are recovering from a strenuous weekend is not fair. To the oft-l'epeated come-back that students have had a month's notice and therefore ·sufficient time to do the necessa1·y studying·, we have this to say: some professors do not realize that the stu- dent is tald11g more than one course; at this time of the year moreover, students have more than enough to occupy theil· time with- out being called upon to take hour exam- inations during- a period which is Eupposed to l>e devoted to preparation for the final 1934 ::; 4 uud is composed of eight men, five of ,•xaminations. whom have seen action in the first two con- te::;ts of the season. It is unfair that the student athletic tax should support a team from which only a handful of students de1·ivoe benefit. More- over, there are very few students, not on the golf squad, who take the time to observe the home contests. We Lelieve that thi::; is a matter worthy of cognizance Ly the Tax Committee whose puwe1· it will Le to 'muke app1·opriutions of the funds for the various undergraduate m-g-:tn izatio11s a ftpr eonsidemtion of budgets sul!lniltt•d by the officPrs of thesl' organiza- LAST CHANCE SUNDAY Sunday will be the last chance to pur- chase tickets for Junior Prom at six dollal'S. Indications are that the dance will be a suc- cess both financially and socially, according to reports from the committee in charge. The difference in price of tickets between Sunday and next week amounts to one dol- lal', regm·ded by many as but a drop in the Lucket compared to anticipated expenses for the whole weekend. Yet, we feel, ill view of liuns; that in tHal\iul-{ the itppt·opriatiuns the the fact that the Junioi' fJrom cunllnittPe cunliH.ittee shall considt•r tltt• t.h•gr.ee tu which tl1t' particular orga11izatiun is or can ·IJp self suppurting-. ' made thP price lower until one wet•k before the rlanw, it is up to every ~tudent who ex- pPcts to attend to pmchlLSe his ticht toclay ot· Sunday. The prom committee must \\'lu•tht>l' lhl' g-olf lt•:tnl Call J,p St•Jf SUpport- have a fair itlt•a of how many to pn.>plll'l' for ing· or not is not our inmwdiatt• qut>stion. But and fol' that n•ason the ratt:>s wt•re reduced. in view of the facts staled above, we 1\·el that l~eports eonet·rning both of the on:lwstt·a:-; tht• 'Athldic Board,' a:-; long as it exists, which havP hf'en Pngag('rl to pin~· tlli~ ,\'Par tlli~ht du wdl to takL· tlwse facts into con- are of the hig-hest. No one need have ft~ar that the dance will he less colorful than in sidPration. Tht> Tax CommiHPP, too, might do WI' II I o rolls idPt' t hP vnluP wit ieh Ow golf tPa.m has for thP Pntirt- student body. the past. Eve1·y possi·ble <>ffort has been lak<en Ly the prom committee to procure first c]a.<Js music, the best decom tions and attrac- tive favors. If anythi11g, the 193·1 prom should l>e more glamorous than any other one held at Union in the past. The feature of continuous music should be RJt;VIEW PlmiOD, RI<:AIHN<~ PERIOD? attmctive to many who have not sPen fit to attend Juniot· Proms in the pa::;t, A Battle According to the college calendar Monday of Music has proved a popular feature el8e- will mark the beginning of the Heview where and with the two high grade orches- P.eriod. The lack of any ~efinite plan for the tras which have been procured the evening conduct of this period and the resulting ought to he one long rem€nrbered by the vagueness and haphazardness which usually students of Union. RANDOM OBSERVATIONS ·,!~,;;; =E=P=LU=R=IB=U=S=U=N=U=M~~ 'By .. The Polifiool Science department is running a questionnaire. They're trying t(} find out what they really are. To ·quote this. paper again: \To ·discover what the students think of the instructor, .they are asked if he is too theoretical, too vague, dogma- tie, dry·, too humorous, sa.rcastic, sympathetic. They are asked If he follows the assignments too closely, ,or if he wanders too much, and many similar question~.\ 'l~his is ln- ·deed a cleverly chosen time ·to spring- the questionnaire. Even \hough tl!e questionnaires a·re to be handed in anonymously, we lniow what most of the answers will be. But at least the P. S. depart~ent has the courage to rush in where angels (some of the other depart- ments here) fear to tread. Sidney David :Markman PIN PRIOI{S IN A ::VAST HE<\D Wouldn't mind being Remi Loh:se for one night, Vanity Fair's star photographer, and wander in and out of Broadway's powdel!•filled dresdng rooms with a camera in one hand and excitement in .the other. Even without Loh~e:s pay, it would have rouged possJbiHties, .. .. * Wonder what wide-eyed Georgie Breakston, of No Gt•e.ater Glory ·fame, will look like when they pin a Hollywoodian halo round his slight head? Will the look go away or will it bEcome a permanent fix- ture for studio pmposes? • * * When gaxdenias g10w brown atound the edges, they look as it they had been slightly signed by a lighted Chesterfield. . .. .. When are they going to hr·ing thE Ber.gmt'l' to town in het Call!eti:lu the Great? We get tired of read ing rave notices. We want to sec for omselves. * * No ma!tet how fat they go in thinldng up new ami devili,h wa:y: of miJ!-ing whidtey, wE'll throw tllt ~lice uf lemon away, save the mar- aschino for a sweeter moment, an~ down oms in one str a.ight gulp. Nc anaemic wmd like reptal can throw our Paul Jones txaining out the window. It takes mote than a governmental geatm e and bits ol fresh ft uit to make us altogether social. * * * Wonder if ad-wtitcrs, song-plug- gets, coffe£-~ellets and m01 e of tlle like get to believe in their· own mouthings so fervently that tlle images of their goods loom up in their faces !Ute an Empire Statr Building come to stay for endless weekends without luggage. * .. Should like to know the numbe1 of uncut books in homes, offices and donated libraries. Would they think us safe, if in our effo1 ts to find out, we 1an th1 ough streets twirling paper-cutt€ls in our hands ·and ringing door bells and hiding under stoops? 01 would they think us safe. * .. .. Gills in plaid dresses who walk al<~ng country roads look more fresh, mme .alive and everything Ul<lle t-han just git!s also in plaid dr. esees. Ma.y be Its because we pass so .few ·of them on the 1oad. The ··distance lends enchantment to the duEt;y :tidets and gives us tin:e to m.ake nctes b£fme we meet the ·next one. Fjy away or bxeak up in to bits you mobs of women who walt for t1 aff.ic lights at 49th Sbeet on Ft iday, wait for telephone calls Satu1day, and wash your hair Sund<w-stlll wa'iting!! Hibernate in clover with. a bunch of bright eyed daisies in your white arms soon to be tanned Indian red. Then you will be mme desirable in your own eyES and· con£equently, in ours. * • * Or eat the Iipatick off yom .rnout:hs with a lettuce and toma· to sand\\licn In the .sunny fields. Or stay where you ate and eat caltl>. .. * .. What is it that makes all mod- er nist :painter·s tut n to gas stations 'lot• inspiration when they are .tnmnbing .their yellow-ochre noses lt ar·t schools? Shell can now stand .up and take a smelly bow. We >hould lllte to see occ·asionally a •lt.ollsSttti in the crowd of canvassed ,f!edgings; but what we should like is ·\'17hat we should like. Our af- Httence g€ts stuck to the heat in M:ay_ And June. And the rest. .. . * Wlly those new ugly cars that 1esenble an imperfect aiC in front and nothing at all in baclt? We'd lather have the 1 ail of a nice svelte rlhip for support. What gliding we ·dO ·is out business. .. * * W·hen May falls upon the frost- ·bitten scalp, we think of lake G-Eor. ge., Yotlt Harbor a·nd foreign labels on other people's bags. We yawn, stretch, finish this and won- der -what's playing at the shows, if anyt.hlng. What? No Catherine the G,:reat yet? We'll sleep then, and oper-a tor please call Chickering 7-60()() when the Bet·gner comes sweeping into town. When the phone 1ings months from now, w·e'.JI t~un ovl>r on the other side and dtaw .the netting closer to our face to chase away the horse flies. The baud members bave askE>d for &upport from the students and the press. They feel that campus publicati-ons have do:ne nothing to ~tir up popular interest. We want to be the first to maim some state- ment in response to theil' plea. The band is subsidized by the students :lf the 'college and for tllis reason .;hould receive due recognition whenever the space pem1its. The band is composed Of good consden- tious boys who really blow hard to .put themselves UCl'OSS. It is not al- ways theit· fault when the sounds they produce are not completely pleasing to the ear. Often in an or- ganization of their kind there is a Jaeli of eo-operation among the members-that is, some play sharp while others play flat. This, afte1> all, is a mino-r difficulty which can be overcome if each and every musician would conscientiously re- wlve to play either sharp or flat, according to a majority vote of the group performing at any one time. We fool that the ba11d is the best musical Ol'ganization of its kind on the campus and we heartily en- dorse more publicity. * * * The copy for Tuesday's Coneor- diensis was stolen :fJ·om the Gazette office sometime between Monday night and Tuesday morning, Just another instance of May day dis- order. But that's what they got for carelessly leaving valuable things around. . .. \' EASY ON THE EYES ~ 000 Here's a book which may help Notes 0 n 0 u r to bridge the yawning gulf which C t • seems to be opening between our 0 n e m p 0 r a r I e S enginee!'s and the rest of us. It has 1 a title, as one reviewer well said, :!!...;;=============-' Several members of the editorial boiU'd of the Scheilectadlan have already announced their plunges into the turbulent seas of matri- mony. Out• eyes are peeled and our ears anxiously await an expected word, After all, there aren~t many more freemen on the board. MUSIC by Rankine Hinman that \only an author could love.'' It is \Technics and Civilization\ by LewiB Mumford, and you'd l>ette1 make a mental note right now not to miss it. 000 Some of the older inhabitant~ will remember Lewis Mumford as u Spencer Lecturer (in the days when there were Spencer Lectm·es) back in 1932, when he talked about Walt Whitman and Herman Melville. Mumford's range of interests is gar- gantuan, no Jess. This time he ha;, written a history of the machiue, man's use and misuse of it clm·iug the past thousand years. 000 Plenty of people talk glib!~ about \this machine age\ and what it is doing to us, but not one in. ~ thousand knows the facts. Machineh did not sprout suddenly from Watt'b tea-kettle. Mumford ~hows how crazily they have been perver·ted to inhuman ends, and gives a real ar- tist's view of what to do about it. Here'3 one book that our aestheteb and our transit-men ought .to reau together, even if they fought aft- erwards? 000 It would almost be wor th es- tablishing communication with spirit-land to hPar James Abbott McNeill Whistlt•r's opinion uf Mt. J?ar·Iey's Mammy's Day pm;tag!' stamp! 000 P1 o,;pe1·ity mu.~t l>t• on its wa~ bad{. Rumo1 lm:; it that ;;event! banks ha \'<' bt>l'n 1 o!JIJt'd r·Pt.·Pnt ly by uutsiders. 000 Repurters on this paper arP lucky. They uri' not ht>ld down to NRA hours! Mr. Dwight Marvin ot the Twy !{eeol d ll't'ently l<'•tifi t•d m Wa;;hmgton that he had had hal d Wt>l k to drive h1t1 re!Jul ter• uut uf the office on their du:y;; uff. th~y WPrc HU inter·estl'd in theh work! 000 At l<>ast one fl'<>shman thought that \Lafayrtt!' at Reh!'n!'etady\ business was tn bP about Dean Gar- is and P1ofessor Ma1ch. 000 In last Sunday's Herahl-Trib11ne our lacrossers were credited in the 'college sports summary with beat- ing Cornell, 11 to 1. Thanlts for the idea, anyhow. 000 This week's most ambiguous headline IB0ston Heraldl: \Co-eds Spend More For Clothes Than Men.\ 000 Professor (Jn the middle of a jolt<>> \Have I ever told you this one before?\ Class <in chorus) Yes,\ Pr(}fessor: \Good! You will prob- ably understand it this time.\ IGNOTUS. liOPES ARE HIGH In. the Treasurer's vault at .Am· herst there lies a box which will bt:: 01Jened in 1950 after being close<.. .or 93 years. It was presented to At this late opportunity to com- ·Lhe college by a Boston merchant ment upon the recent Glee Club in :1857. Optimistic members o1 ~oncert we shall merely offer a few ,factLlty and student body think that orief observations. The broad sweep- the contents of the chest will make .ng grandeur with which \Lauda- A.l!Jherst the richest college in the mus\ was interpreted was in mark- countr;y when it is opened, and ed contrast to the more rugged na!Ly cf them can't wait for 1950 manner in which the Club has sting 'lO r-{)11 around. The circumstances it in previous concerts. The lnher- seem ~ga.inst it, however, as a simi- ent strength of the piece, we felt, iar box given to Harvard and .was enhanced by this smoother opened In 1930 contained pamphlets, treatment, .tr-inkets, some deeds, and a few oth- The rendition of \Passing By\ er- comparatively worthless papers. was by far the best the Club has Besices, the treasurer believes that ~iven that song. Delicate and slm- the donor was too good a man to ple, this lyric by Robert Hen'ick get an;y jewels and such by piracy •• equir:e5 a light tone 11Iaced well '.tnd for too good a banker to store forward. The recent concert was liP securities for such a length of the first one in which the Glee Club ti:rne. has not encountered serious diffi- .culty in maintaining true pitch. i\. U:NI()N DEFECT? Stl·ong Intel'Pl'etation One of the mm·e brilliant column- ...... ists of R.utger's Targum is rather In the pa;;t Dr. Tidmarsh has .dissatisfied with the prevailing typt given \The Last Round Up\ an ef- :of fref>hman weekend. He confines ·feet of litte1 weariness through a his article to the incoming fresh- 'very Hlow although firm beat. Fri- 'IVOinen, however, but that he ex- ,day he gave it a much. faster and ·.jllarnll 1:< a pretty rep1 csentative .consequPnt ly HtUI diE>r teinpo which .group, dPHpite the fact that many :~eemed prefPrable to the earlier In- were not pretty. He say:; in part: 'tel pr etatwn. As usual \Shot tnin' \The girls were so busy showin~· Bread\ and \Why Don't You Try\ their elders how wordly and soJ>his- were glvi>•J with vitality and en- .ticat.ed they were that the mere thusiasm. The difficult syncopa- lnJtt.er of evincing even the faintest 'tions of the formPr piPce W!'fP ad-· :Interest in the college itself wa~ mirably accomplished .. In the repetl- ;for the most part forgotten. Tht tion of \Shm·tnin' Bread\ Charles wh(}]e idea of the wPekend is to Reid, accompani>~t, caught the 'l{.ive them a taste of college Hfe Chorus off gua1·d when he insert·ed ·1~ut all the pro,;ram takPs cnrP of •tn Pxtra \YnC'opntNI pausP imnw· :ts eating, sleeping, and listE>ning to 'diately before one of their· ent1 ie>s. :<pet•che~. Four day• nf that will dis \Chullta\ was th .. only numbPr irt irom·agP any maidPn from going tn which. the chmus fell short. The '.til)' tll'liversity.\ students have alway>~ beer\ unable • • * to attain the warm, syillJjathetic '1'HE INCOMMOIHOUSNESS OF fE>t>ling demanded by this romantic J'R()GRESS ·number. In the choJU~ they rrii:lsed St. Lawrence University wa;; a the rhythmic CII'Hcendos which ;.thllvlng little place in 1871, when ·came out in the accompaniment, ;its l.ibrary building was erected. So and for which Dr. Tidmarsh strove 'thriving In fact, that there was .in his dirN·tlon. In \High Barbary,\ !J'Oom for eighty students to work however, they achieved the difficult, ithere at once. The only trouble is ·~tiOng swing of the rhythm which cthat the college has grown, and has proved a bug-bear all winter. 1 n4JW about a tenth of the college HaussP.r In Concert :can study there nights. The Iate- 'comer at St. Lawrence is usually In ''Nacht und Traume\ HPrbert .offered the floor· as a proper study Hausser gave his firte.;~t perform- ;Jllace, and often ·he thinks he ha!; ance of the season. His voicE>, na- \thc best of the bargain. turally rich and pure, has· devel- \' • * oped with unusual rapidity In the ;wosT OF US SLEEP THERE last year, so that he is now a soloist Advertisement In the Vermont. of distinctive qualities. His first rna- Cynic: · . jor concert appearance will be Mon- LIVE IN FRENCH 'day evening, May fourteenth, when McGill University, he appears in Trinity Methodist MCliltreaJ, Canada Chureh with Ruth Fllcltinger; or• s. :a. c. ganist. - St H; Mal' Sl Gi By Fea pitch~ line ( tosser tomo1 Union r will Fiam1 I, the l will c team, o'cloc TwE {.. to 3 t of th Flam1 Colga his t~ tulus, for tl ThE has a again on Cl i nine I off th '. wlnni Agair nine, twent 30 to Th~ men i.aFI! men star HickE wast ond 1 twos who' rellal: are a have far in th Th~ tories fresh rest. in th Dain switc that prese who conct tact ing g Th best. Wed1 has l far, 1 1. year Iader slum] into , son, hit, ( I trips WE 6 to New New Rutg to H day. Th Unlo Clarl FiorE Dain Cad\ Gris' Seme Gan StevE Loon It ! '[ ! the I on I Ale tw< I the I off 220 hur di£1 dal bru !I tra p~t ~nt I t io1 Ma lliU I f'Vt t' 4.3 l ule I I COl I t1a wis i - I I B1 A

lly of he he nd to be be. rt- to te- to a!- or- re- on or- tte ny ew er- ef- a ich In· pa· I'd in ble ich lch ert m- or- ! 1, Strong Colgate Nine Here; Hamilton Host To Tracknten TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1934 WHk, and Union is expecttd to of the nine markers Eecured by the EWeep the mile. Ftosh. The high jump loolts easy for F'ourtem seconds after the first M. I. T .. Stickmen to Meet Garnet Here Three same men that started against Tufts with perhaps one or two changes. The strong offense and de- fense exhibited against Tufts also atgues well for Coach Ha1kness' charges. the Chr net, teo. Emory But ton, whhtle sounded, Smith received the who h:~d trouble with his take off ball on a low pass, dodged tw0 Saturday hal: ironed out his dif- Deerfield rum and sent the ball flculties. Captain Alec Turner paet the goalie fot a point. His jumped an even six feet Munday, next tluee countets came in rapid and these two may jump for the , ucce~~ion, all of them being se- college outdoor tecotd tomorzow cmed m the fiHt five mmute~ of al!houg~ it is .mote likely that the:~-: play. When th~ quu 1 te 1 ended the wtll watt untrl the mert with Ro· fir~t yl'al men had a comfortable ---+---- Eng·inee'I'S Have Strong De- Garnet Golfers fense; Beat Bo~ton U. and \dd Blanked 6 to 0 Maroons, With Array of Garnet Picked to Roll Up Sl11ggers, Expected to 100 Points; Many Track Lost to Tufts and Harval'd By MI lebury, ehe~tet hete next week. lead of six pomts. ___ Leon Nagu~zeweki ~land~ a gocd In the d'Cund petiod, Deelfield The Gamet sticltmen will at- G chance of bettermg his records in tightened 1t~ defem,e and kept the tempt to secme their second vic- Give Union Hard Test Records Are in Danger By WILLIAM E. FER USON By GEORGI<~ R. CORY, JR. both thr ;·hot put and the di:;cu' fo'ruth ftom ::;coting, \\bile Full~! toty of the eeason tomorrow when Featuring one of the outstanding The fina•l awa~ hack melt f<•I lht ow The big ~ophomor E> ha~ wu~ !.lble to get tlu ough T<Jmpkins th£y m£>et Massachusetts Insitiute pitchers in college baseball and a the Garnet which is ,.;cheduiPd to lookPd good all WE'Pit Phil LittlP fot a gorrl. The ::;ecund half wu::; of Technology on thE' Library Field line of sluggers, the Colgate ball and Jop Milano have al>o >hown but !Y.Pnt' ·une ~ecund\ ol' when M. I. T. won tts opening game take place at Clinton tomorrow aft t t · · h • u tosser~ will come to Schenectady cone an tmptovPnwnt m t ese two MacMunay tore open the uppon· against Bmton Univer~ity but has tomoz·row from Hamilton to put the ernoon with Hamilton ~h' u!d be an evrnt>, and it would not bP >UI ent\ <ll·ft>n~\ und pa»Pd the ball d1oppt>d contests to Tufts and Bar- Union team to the hardest test it easy encounter for the Union tPum pri~ing if they should both do 1~0 thtough >Wift. vard. Aceozding to Coach Poole of will face. this year. \Re.d\ La- Hamilton has not a ~II ong team tEet 01 betlo m the ui~cus tumor- I•'rum tlus point, the yEatlings Hat var d the Techmen have the Flamme 1s schedu.led t? p1tch f~r this year according 1 II to tow and perhap~ add a fo,.t or ~o had di!ficulty in ~huking off theil be~t team the coll~ge has seen in the Maroons, whtle J1m Loomts j . 0 a 1epm \· to theil >hot· put pffor ts. mln and little Ecormg was dune. many year E. will climb- the mound fot' the home The conhncntals huvP not had n o - -- ThE' Just goal~ for Deet field wete De~pite these two Fetbaclrs, Coach team. The game will start at 2: meet yet, while the Gat net has had Deei•fi.eld Lo.SeS to. secur ttl 111 the final quar tel against Luther Gulick is confident of malt- o'clock. two, so thele is eovery teason to be· v 'UI a lighting flock uf Union .:ub::tt ing a good showing againl't Union Two weeks ago Colgate lost a 5 lieve that Rill Kt>tz·~ Pharge~ should Y t• 9 t 3 tutes. With the team built aiOund Ed to 3 thriller to the Syracuse Chiefs be at top form, whilP the hom£> ear Ings 0 TIH' sununat~ and lint>up: A~ch, Rob l<'mstel, and Johnny h I t t' 1 L L team will not b<> · t' t d. Borget, a f01midabie defense has of t e n erna 10na eague. a- 1 m tp op ron 1 ___ Tulupkll•~ U Swift been follned which may prove dif- Flamtp.e, who went the route for 1on. 1•\·ut\u I' !losmH · 1 b · 1 h h'l o 'th 1 d I' h A 1 I' 1 ficult to penetrate. The tech team Colgate, ~{le ded ut e1g 1t its w 1 e The 0.11 net mentcr plans to tal;e ;:\Jffi! ,ea s <'t'OS Hac\. · ·\' 1<• 11 ''I' Krough his tearn mates pounded Joe Bar- a squad of 22 or 23 mrn \\ith him L•lf•Ju\ II• Hagls appeared especially strong on the On Opponent's ({oal With ll.ul<>Ju :.:1 • I•··:·kht·\1 ,-udtz def~n~e in the first period agaimt tulus, one of Syracuse's regulars, as usual. The1 e \\ill be no change~ 1··· \~··• t • J•'alle1· Harvard and if they play the same for thirteen safties. unless something unfur ;een UCC'U!H Four Rapid rounh•t•s \',uod.- :tl 1.\ Alt·xander bt and of lactUS<e again~! Union the There i.s no doubt that Colgate Chazley Ktull's bad lq; ~Pems to :\lars•·ll:t ~-\ J.tmeson has a slugging team. In two games be back to no1 mal with the remit ---- ~~;::·i;~u•·• \>\ 1 ;)1 J~~~~:; ~~~~~~~tl~itll p~~e:~ 0 ~ 0 ~~~de~bli~ against M.ichigan University, played that the Gatnet ~hould bP much Exhibiting a fine btund of Ia- ltt·f~'\\: F';~.l\\.tld <:o•·Pu, s 11 a 1 tl\\\''\ T. vars.ity ~quad are Sayle~. Wil- on consecutive days, the Maroon ~!ranger in the PptintH Tlw Buff Clo,~(, tht· ~eurlingo, defeutpd Det•r- suL,ltlut•u•m. J•,~•lidd 1\aJtl, !'L'I•·•- sun, Gel!, BanPtt, Gas~. Halvert- nine gathered in twenty-four hits and Blue is alfo >trong in tht da>h fteld Aeudtm;,. 9 to 3, \>V~dnt·sday \\'· r-.uiJum. B\\\· l'\\'\ .\u!';l<, J•,,. ~on, Colby, Amd anti Way. off three of their opponents' hurlers es, and :oome good 1 !lt'P> ar r expPe>t aftt•tnoun un the Ltbt uty Fteld for· tuu. Kellut·dl. l'ults. \\\\· It\'\'~. Aft~er last week's win over Tufts winning one and losing one game. ed to 1 efult. theit ;ecunt! win. Jad< Smith, play- \\'.dlu·r. l 1 '' 11 \; •• \\ E-t• u·h. < ' 1 \'~' 111 • and the defeat handed M. I. T. by Agal 'nst a weak Oswego Normal Bill Kazmie1czak, who \tied up\ ill\ m-hum< f<Jl Union wuo a<>utn llanb, Jo:wr•·~l. Bu ''·and p,.,.,, 1 '\\- thP \\rna tuant, lrttle troubJu I\ an- n l , 1 M altll\S- \\ ~~~011 1 .:\l:uO:\lUll:.t)', r\\\ ill. -U. \-- \,.; \.- .;J The Middlebury College golf team whitwashed the Garnet divot- diggers here Wednesday at the Mo- hawk Golf Club, 6 to 0. This was Union's ::;econd defeat in as many start::;, ::~ince the team lost to Ham- Ilton Satur·day by a similar score. Captain Ho1·vath and Langer played best for Union, their match- es not being decided until the final green was reached, out each lost, one up. The ::;cores: Riccio, Middlebury, defeated Hummer, 4 and 3; Lombardy, Mld- dl·~bury, defeated Horvath, one up; Best ball in foursome, Middlebury, 4 and 3. Leete, Middlebury, defeated Cor- bin, 4 and 3; Olsen, Middlebury, de- feated Langer, one up; best ball in foursome, Middlebury, 4 and 2. The team's next match will take place here May 11, when It meets Hamilton for the second time. It will play at the Mohawk Golf Club. ---a---- MOUNTEBANKS MANAGERS WANTED All freshmen who are Interested in trying out for business manager of the Mountebanks are asked to report to Mr. Enzer at the News Bureau in Silliman Hall today or tomorrow. nine, Coach Reid's men banged out in the event at William: Satutduy tlw leltcer m the a»ault on the Tumlcth, une 1111 u 111 ,., 1\·t<·I>un, l\\u tidp!!ted by the r:mnet playets twenty-six safties to win the game looked bettet in the workout. thi~ pt PP bu:~-s' goal, accounting fot fout . nllllllt<·\ The llne-up will con~iEt of the 30to4. ----------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------- The pitching staff of the Reid-. men Is unusually strong. Besides LaFlamme there are three other men who can step In and fill the star pitcher's shoes in good style. Hickey, ranked next to LaFlamme, was the winning hurler in the sec- ond Michigan game. There are also two southpaws, Wright and Grubb, who can be called upon to do some reliable pitching. The Red Raiders are also strong in the field. They have made but seven errors thus far this year and went errorless in the Sy:racuse game. The Union nine, after three vic- tories in as many starts, will be fresh for the game after a week's rest. Little change has been made in the lineup. In the batting order Dain and Cadwallader have been switched due to the batting slump that the third baseman is in at the present time. As far as the men who will take part in the game are concerned, the lineup remains in- tact as It has been for the preced- ing games . The team as a whole is at its best. A p1·actice game was staged Wednesday in which Semerad, who has hit a double in every game so far, got the first home run of the year for the Garnet team. Cadwal- lader seemed to rise a bit from his slump and got a ringing double into deep left center field. Steven- son, who has yet to garner his first hit, collected two hits in three legal tnps to the plate. Wednesday the Reidmen lost a 6 to 2 decision to N. Y. U. From New York the Ma1oons went to New Brunswick for a game with Rutgers and from there returned to Hamilton to play Rochester to- day. The probable starting lineup: Union Pos. Colgate Clarke lB Bridge Fiore 2B McDonough Dain SS Larsen Cadwallader 3B Anderson Griswold LF Kuk Semerad CF Brooks Garrison RF Flaitz Stevenson C Offenhammer Loomis P LaFlamme INTRAMURAL TRACK The lntramur al track meet for the !\pr ing PPS!'on will bE> held on May 14 15, 16 and 17 on Alexander Fieltl. Thoe will be two Events on rach day during the meet and t h•y wtll be 1 un off as follow!'· lO().yaJd da>h and 22Q.yar d doaPh, Monday; 220·yat d hmdles and phot put, TuPFday: diPcus and pole vault, Weodne~­ day; javelin, high jump and btoad jump, Thursday No rnembe1 of the var Fity tr aclt team is eltgtble for com- p~tltion All men who wl!h !tl enter must have th~ir applica- tion\ in by noun of S:;tuJdB;,. May 12, and no man may entPr lllOI<! than thr Pe events All PVtnts will begin pt orr.ptly at 4 30 of the day t h<'y at P Eched· uled to be run off. In a futm e iFEue of The C'on· cot dim::ls thet e will be an en· !lance blank fur the UEe of !host> wishing to enter the meet. BASEBALL & TENNIS SUPPLIES Alling Rubber Co. 254 State Street OR and and FIRM ~CKED that's why I find Luckies do not dry out Luckies use the mildest tobaccos-for Luckies use only the clean center leaves -and these are the mildest leaves. They taste better. Then science plays its part in making these choice tobaccos truly kind to your throat. \It's toasted\- for throat protection. These mellow, fine- tasting tobaccos are cut into long, silky, full-bodied shreds and fully packed into every Lucky- so round, so firm, free from loose ends. That's why Luckies \keep in condition\- why you'll find that Luckies do not dry out, an important point to every smoker. You see, always in all-ways -Luckies are kind to your th~ Only the Center Leaves-these are the Mildest Leaves Copyright, 193!, 'rile A!llertcllll ~·obscco COillllllllf.•

Fuur !ON ALEXANDER FIELD By GE.ORGE R. CORY, JR. -----·- ------------- ,\I t·llll•t \.\It tl t h· J.l\ t·• lll \\'t·dtlt·-d.t\ l•ft·\ltl!\ '\ ··~, !l\tt•t .tl\1: !It }\;t-hl\\! ~t·tid !tt .l~t~l l'\t•t:t. ~ 11 t~.t· I ;_\lilt' Jl\t-'1\hll ~~' \\. I.! ttl t.~l iLtLllilt,n .tilt~ Lt· hrtli.t-' ~l~t ltn•Ilt T~.t· j,l,t•\\ 1 11~ \\t•th }{;ttl~ tOT\ tl!lllt'ti t\ ~!tit•\\' tlw ·!•ttll !ul t 1 u, 11. but ~Lt· r.t•'\.t S:t~HI ~: .• ~ tlw Ju·--t Lt ', u:d ,;,. \,.t_ :h•Jlll \till t•··• r .\!tt·l 1 I. t1 !a·,., u:,,n t t.\ :til) 1 tu 11 • ..tt a.i .tnd bt· I.t \ d h:t~ ·llll'l~t ... PIUl.., thn.t \It' tit'\t•lupt>d u. ... o,t• a·t 111. a uti ha~ tH'\ t~r J'P- co\ .~Jt'(L He· t I it d a~uin thl ... \t•ar an•l ,·uuhl nut ;;•·t !Ill)· ~\ hP u•. rill' ._;IIIII t;hilll; \HI._ h:tJIJII'lll'il THE C'O::\l'ORI>IE~:-11S. Fl111 >:\ Y, ~!:\ Y 1, 19:\1 , I.· r .• · , , • It . \I pit ( l!t ·.tl h.; tj •iJ.l :--: 1 \ '~. Lt I' t I . I ., -~~~ I Lt. l't·.,·I••J, lw.d' l·'}',l :-- g!ll 1 1 1 •·\: 1, I I' ,.,. A -..qu.tJ \.Jr ~~.·vt·n tt>nnL~ pl:tyt>t·~ ~~.:·•. _.: l 1 ·,: ::·.· ;.:.,~ ·~·~ 1 .' 1 ·:. 1 ,\ j: , ... : ... lt>tt J'ul \\'tlllallb t•a.I ly tlu:-o ~aft~.·t- • t··Jt, ',_, llltl.,t 1 ·• 11 , _ 1 ; 1 uuull tu play tlll• l~t:-.t l't.H\t.t~~t a\Vay f,·p ... JI•<~• d• :,.,,·, d ''' r• • t't. ,,,, t • tr•Jill hollll' tni tht• t~alnt•l tlu:-. Vt·;.a. \, 1 ·.;~·~ 011 : 1 :·tl. '' 1 ' 11 \·t·l.·•·. ~· .•• '' 11 1 1 1 .: 1 ;, t_~hty:-.lt·t. lo\.t·at:-. ~tlllPlH•l HuGt~tt ..... ·•\•·t 1 •• 1 ,. l't 1 1 , _! L'uhl'll ,t.lltl t•ltht·l l<'ux ur \\'atllt'l 'VIII play ~m,·lt>>. v.:htlt• lht> duublt•,' •\·<•Ull.llnallulb wdl lint• U!J a,; tol· .uv.•:-: ~loftt·U and SttntlllPl: Kt~.tt:-: .tll!l l'ht Y'lt•t; Hubt•t t' ami Fux. Tutlay·, ;,., t h•· ,e,·und nta.tch <>t ~ : lu· ~l·a~oll fot t lw .:\la:-.~at'hll~t't t:-. I \llBitltll\ 11\1-l \\ ~·t·:uu. In ~lu ti tlnly utht·I :-;tatt tht•y I \-lf'j'l '\tt ,t.-ft~attd Ha\'t•tfotd by a I tu }!l'nt l•.-1t• Ttt•tt -.<'til-t> un tht•lt ht•IJH' cuuzl:--;. In Vlt''\\'t ~.lt.:.Jlt.t t 'In .,f tht• f.t-t·r that tht• J,t>nn~yl\·ania: 1 ~.~:·: 1 1 , 1 1 \1.~ /.,, 1 .: 1 \.:·: it~'llll dt\t·:tt't·d l~nltlll by a ·t to 1 1 \' ~t'tHl' t·~ttltt·J Ill t.ht• -.pa~un. tht'tt•l I \...,liB\ ·t't'IlJ~. to lw lttt.lt• chaiH\t' fot :t Cat- 1 \lplt;t Jt,·\' • l'h• ftt't \'lt't'11l~ thi:-;: :lftt•l TitH.Hl. ~.:~·,:- t E;j.',t::··,',·,' 1 l',l ,, T••llHIJlt,~· ~dt.t•r 1\lHIH the (;:11 ru•t 1 1 •·.1.• t··~~ .\ 1.( I, 1 '\' -..ttl I HI 1:'\ I I \t.i I I' '.' I'- h. I ']' l \ j.J• I II•· I•· \1 I .., I I II\ I I \1.1 I \ • • 1 1 I' I '• '' IC I 'I'\ I '• i '• 'l' I'!. :--- I 'lo ,. ' .. I',. I' I. I I·• I •t, , •• ;. l * \\ \' II t 1)' ... ('-..htH' .. \\lltJ'o\1 11\t.t 1\ ''· l'l·· r•,,,' :1 l .. \ \I I I: I I I \ t I \ I.\ ',, J. , ·• I ' ,. h h I. ·,I ,, I I I·· I• ~('II E IH I , E Uu .... t·ltall It nl.t \ ., '!. '. '\ :' I. t• -----·-- ·---~· ·- --------~ --~- -- ~--- ---- ------ ,,,. 1 .. I•· I' t \- 1:. · I r ... 1 j t··· I I ' ' ; ' ~ I ' ' I I I t I . I . l'1, · ·-' : ''·' I •· I. t'•i• I I' I I \l1111d I) I' ;--.:.II t j'1 I' \II I• I I'J, 11 ur..,t·i.tllut•'- !'ill. llltiH·.) I '• ·r I- l•c II L·:'\.·\11 ~~~~· l'lt·J J.•,·lta 'l'ht·l:t \'!\. t'hi I' I'J,, :-o:·t..:nt t l••·lta \:-- l lt•ll.t Phi, 1 J'~wl .1 l••·lh t 'l1J \.. .\lpl1.t l'lu (·Jpita, '\, ult.IJ ... ', l\.:t••JI.l :-;,gma. Ht>l.-t Theta l't \ ~ Tl.\-l.t ~~~ L·:p ll••n. .HnHtiU) J,t, ',., 1. \· \:\. .. ,,J•!tt:--;•g•Jtt.llt•lt.a\''-I.Tlwta. ~~·-til I• ':, \'jdt. J'ltl ~~.1·11.11.1 J•,:l.·t !•t·l\.;t t'lil, (ltll.a ('ll~ilt•ll \'~. JJp)t:l. l'ht, l•• .. !: · , •.. 1. l·'t. 1-..q J•.t \t.·l..t \ Ud t TIH·l.L l·'1 , ... ~~~tua ('lu. l!tu l}aut- 1 !-... 1. ·1 :--.. ,,,.,, ·t 1 1 . tl\\ ,. \'• 11 111.1 l••·lt.L \:-.. K:t.ppa. :--itgnta, Phi lla·ut- 1 ',,.1-· - · 1n.t. ''•·lt.L \:->. Tllt't~t :-..:u l~!Jt''ilon. 1 th·..,da) 1•:\t\'l·ll•·g .\lJ_dta l'lu \lt'lta \'~. t~hi J-'.-t, l\l11 ;-;1gma Ut•J,t'a. v~. 1 Jt·lta t'hi. '' '\, .... , J, '' \.•1 ,_ Lt~•l\t• 1't·. i l'ltl J• .. ll.a Tln·L.t vs_ llt·lt.a Pl11, Kapp...t. .. I'\ I'··' I j; .. t: .•. l.li [t.;. I. \.:j 1\:,tJIJ\I:l SIL:III:I .• ~t·tlll;l.\:-; \' .... ' 11 I'-· I t• d.,, \ h t!'f'·' :-.,,,.,, .. \IJ•II.t Tal't.t ~tl l~~p~ilnll, Bt•la 'l'lu·la Pt \'-t 11 ' .. !'!,. 1•,:1 1 \ \•t1J1t_,~.._ 1 L.tndnla l'lti .\l·ph.t ·'''' FOR ALL KINDS OF BREAD, ROLLS & CAKE FREIHOFER'S FREE DELIVERY PHONE 2-3500 @1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~ ~ == === :_: HotelVanCurler = lwlolt'. Bill 1 .. 1<1 Ill<' that. h•· fl'· Ultlli(W.IIti tl 111<1'11 \.htu\\11\~ till' .Jli\PIIn a lung di..,tlllll''' tlw lir:.,t tilllt' II•· ttit-d it. :u11l tl11·11 n<'\'? t'UU\.ill~ Ull~\\llllt' 111'011 hi ... umr1~ u~ain. \Viii pliiy lH1:-.t t.o \'l'ttllunt '~y•ith lht· :-\ ~llt.t !'Itt llla.tdlt'\ ,taJtin~ at:! 311u't'luck. r:.~====------------------------------- '1 ~-------- Re,. (Jf:riz~dnLu: ~~u;s~:nJt:.H;~u~~trters ~ - INTRA MURAL 'l'IIE llNIVERSITY OF BliFFALO \ •· .1 \('h . ..;;Ill I'll H \~ \ I' \~1' .1.11'11 ~11.1'!,, \\b• h:-t- btt'll \-\'tll ••... p;dl.'\ 't ~ •..• : !til '!:t• tit :-h ·n~. 1 n :~~·,, _, t•·tn: !·1- htd :t ·~,:tt LEAGUES Sthool of Dentistry \ . and Their Friends •. 1 ttlt,.:,,.:I•·~:J.It~· t'X(tt·~Jd\t't' l~a:-t \ •.. tl ,,,. I' L·l\ ' ,; ' II t t ,. :-.; y I. \ • : l r , -r. 1: 1 • ~ • , .;: 111: t· ' UJH t 1 n •! '\ L··· t I '·.- ,·•:! ,, ··tH:tt:t \' 'l'ht· :\ t \\ y')! 1\ t'l : .•• :. !t·.· Jl ,t•d I tl .._:11 .·l \\'.I~ 11J1 . 1 , ~ • · . j,- t r: •l .I :11 l, \.\• I \t, ~ 1 :....:_I • \\ ! 1 ! , t t 'I fl\ ()JJ('! IL .I \\t::l•· ! I•' \'\!!ll:t1 V.ttll t.t·l .th .. u' ~·1· \\u: I\. l•ll' lht tnana ~ 1 I .t · tll·t·•! !\lfll 1 !.~d 1,, \\I 11Jd '':_:t't l1~ ,1!! 1 i. t.• ll•· ....:''' lt\ \\ t!'h t:~out: t 1\t•\1~~. tiLl! J\, 1111ttl . !Lt• ftiWJ:-- l!,tll I•• till 1 11' ~w \\t'll' :---;,,\\ ht· 1, .. 1 , \\t••·· ;t1hlt·'l'' ,,,,. 1t1n a:- 1Lt\ ·Lur.c: t11 ;tllll !11· :d\t·- 1t \HI' III :\1. l'O -.. \\ Tllh \\ i':J·:R ---- -==;;;.! HE~l'LT:O:. :\ thrPt' ye,n cou1,;e ,lf in,;t·ltldion, qu,ttl\<·r plan. ·1 he dPnt,d <tnd nwdic,d divisions .Itt' rlus,.. ly .1ffili.1teJ. l kit!·<d sln<knts ha\ e two ! <\.II sol Bn ... t·hall h.·tsit· nH·dic.t.l ~tudy U1Hlt·t direction diH1 \upt·t· 1 '!• '\ .tl 1'11. llt·ILt t'loL'I, . , \ .•..• 1••·:·., l'!o• \\\ .. ,,., \·· vision of lht> nwch·,d l<~•·ulty. t 'linic,t! pr.H t:i< , . 't,' I' :•. ''), !\~ 1 ''\· 11 Ttwl.• I•~ ot dPlltl~t·l.\' in ,dl jl:'-1 \'dl ir•d d~jJt\('{..; is ~\1\H\IVi... l t't, lik1.111:! I f'\i1 :-\ogiJI:i f.it•l\.1 dt ,, ,1 .. 1 t •• I• • ,., .. '' -. l;.q,pa \'\ I·•··•' },y tllf' dt'Ilt,,J divi,ion .l!.d is ,·onnt·dt·rl with tht· l'ut·l. 1 ''I J·:, ..... t( .. T., •• •·. l·~•·t.t ·rht•l.t 1·', \'·'' 1 •• 11 .• I'\' ' : I'·• t'i'\l\\ \ .. ,. clinics of st·ver;d hDspJi·,ds. Th,.se cornl,irwd in- ., •. , h .. tt'l'·' \lp:. ..•. I'~ -1 1 1' 1 •·• 1 ' 1 \ stitutions ulle1 ,111 unustt<tll'' ht•!tJ!ul t'Xj)t'lieiHt· in J '• , !.1 lot•_, I (1,] l.l I· II\ (t•l'. ·,.! l'h I I )t J 1 -' ·,, 'l'lll't.t ln·:.r l...tll•·l\l.' ,·tt, Alr~h.t. ~·t '' clinical obsf\fVdl.tun. di(lgno . .,is ,\nd trt·c.lt:riH·nt\ nl I 'It• t :.tln \'·' I '•·It, d• I t·.ll t·d :--1 g tt1:t I-'ll .'· ,~, h.q,ft:t :-'·~-\'~~.' d~lt-'.ttt-d ~.·11, 1.'-'· dt~ntalcondi1ions. ·1 ht· IH~xt tt~~ulttl ~t~s·riun vvJil 1 ,-1.:. :\.t·<il'.!.tl\\ :ot·:tl I '•·lit t\ltt. ;::, ~. J J j 2 d I() 3 I 'I'll· .o ', 1·:1•-d'\' ol..t•.o!•·d :-;og!u.t !'Itt I llpt\'ll ll Y 11 • -r. : .• • ',,.,, • 1 ... IJ.• 1·1 .. \' •I ,,,.~,, Tl\''\ For further infcrn1ation add•·e:.s I I AN~~our~Cl: THEIR NEW TAP ROOM Althcut]h New ... Already Popular ... Uelic j..._,us rc)Od and Refreshing 8ever,KJF:S ... At Moderate Prices TRULY SCHE~JECTADY'S BEST Ttttlt' \\::1 ht uc• ptc·~nu~twtt !t,•r:- ,,1 th•· lLtfllli'• tt tr:tcl\. nn·t t r, 1 t 1, 1: r , , \\ \' t. r:, ,. I,,· c :1 tt ~ t~ • ·1 lt~t· ll1l\\' J.th,t·· !.''l' ttt~lt I llJ<u:t• la:-t \\tt h. lH;,: ltt·c·,lU·•· Ito• tt· .111 ab~,, Ill 1 ,. : \ Ill I.' : Ill: t t• 1' 1.~ Ill t - !Ill ll. till!: !••fl ~All , ... , 1\flll\\ ~,b,,ut thc•nt t- 1 h .If· ~ h t·~ h.t \ 1• a vt•r ~ \\ t·.tl\ ! t·:trn J• J•• lt• l~,llltt' o.c'IJ,·d l11•o ,Ill~\' 1•1 d.tll~ l I \1 I I I 1 I 1\1 I Sch(}ol of o .. nt:stry, 25 Goodrich Street, Buffalo, N. Y. ;·:~~~-: '·~:~~~~·,'L,'~,:·~:~.~~~·.:·! '··!~~·;, ~ :_·~·· 1 ; __ ··tt .. _\ :,_· .. ,:-=! ::::::::::~~~~~~_;.._.;..-~~..;.;.._-- 11 ~tillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~lllillllil)!illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll; I \r\OIUJLJ, t hl:illlt a.JJ\ lH ,;\ If !~:t·\ ,;,.:It I 1 ... tt·\ t~ IIlt' hut' r~l::~ 1\.t•t/. ~~- r ..... tdl;. t .. r l!ICI }Jtoil!l t•·lllill !il\\ .1 f itl ) I' ·! ;c \f, i.J I Hit It' I Itt· t (hll' ~oud frh•nd (;u ... t• n~ uu· hi.., intuition v.ill ht• \\'kilt~ in t\\ \ ... (,.,. \\·,. 1111'<'1 Tt in it\ h•·u· at that. tinu·, and \\hilt· 'r •lun'l' I •. Jtu\.\ what hi~ intuition \ill t.••ll hi111, I luq,.. II<' i~ \\ ~~~ng, Itt ,·auo..t· ht· ha\' h•~•·u tuul,iu~ lifr- rui-..f•.lahlt·· t'ur \UUJ., t-rul,\ t'\t'l .. iun· th•· tli ... a.., .. 11ull' t nh111111 uf ••flc· \.\1 .. 4 ), i.lJ.;U 24- Hour Service That's What We C.ivt> You With 1 uO~·v G.uarantte of Perf~ct WUl'kmanship in All Our Lines of Cleaning I I LUX CLEANERS I Phone 4-8700--131 State St. THE NEW DENTISTRY A l'hu\' of l'•et•entit•e .HeJicinB C.\le~e \len h111l iu it unu.ual uppurtuuiltt'\' for a curt!'er lfn l-1•1 \JIJ Ltii'\'\IY Dental ~~ tlll .. l .,tft·l., J tolltpt:tt:nt t:uur~e ul Jo!fl•..iiJilull tur tlte Jrntal }ftlft·,..,t••JI A .. ( ·, \,-; :\\ S1 IIOOL II r 1ft' fur 1 ,Jftlfut/Ut\ toroy M S Mln~r. D M 0. MD .• Deflll (upt 2J.IIJH lonuwoull Av&. Hu!.tun. Mast. 1.11>\ i'•Y 1. •• ( 'tt·,un h.ts l)et•n ltw.,rdt·d tJw \Cood I :I ]ou\'·k•·•vim.:\ se,t! of ,,p ! PI\'\ I.< .ud·ully ,,w.ud,·d fo1 I purrty. < le.~ulnw~\ <~till qu.d 11ty of lllglf'dit·nl:s. I I I At Your Dealer's Store 1 ur ~~~~~~~4~3~21 @11934, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Ca, Great bo<>ks have been vvrilte11 about tobacco and cigarettes... . But after all it can be ~;/;:~· .sa . l. d. .1 •• n J·u· s.~. a rew w·· .. ··o··· .·.·r ;•s·· dt.}ti\~\~\~t.1~~\f·· ,:·;·'~.:, .. ~:::·.: . .. .· ... · l 11 . . . . u .. , ... :::\:···:·:::{'::: ' . they are mtlier · ·. ·: _ _ l liter lasle kller•· _ ·-\~~~ Chesterf1#. 0 1 :::J I I • I • • !-- Vol Ca Ex Pl~ Adv A Ne-v~ p Re banli city\ nigh ienc< man· ~ue~ in a• seat' stair 1:30 Tl\ prod whic tiom Tl Hovo Vild ary in a of ever rt>st: has a d1 the T, garc un~< to t cied to lenv has of t at Fre clas boll thl' or ful Bas n !'£ to 1 IE'a' h!'a fmr It inJE tUill tho: wh< pie< WOt bur the A far1 <'<iy of ' the hlll par anc 'I do~; Ge< thu die .Jol wo: sai: wo: Re' Wi Sm J Cai cor me Br< wil on be au1 aw rna ] eel' thr at at do Cll ye: ex· ye: ar. yo Er th br Ex

..• Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY,. MAY 4, 1934 li:Ol'seRhoes ':=:================~! W'lls v t Jimse-sll{)OS SOU'I'IlE.RN J,EAHUE . Della Phi vs. B~ta Thfrh Pi, Psi Up- 1 . 1 lJaJ.IlS, . ermon : ALpha Phi Delta b~at Delta Pp,..ilon, Psi l'p,;ilon ..... , ....... ::. 0 1.000 silon vs. Theta Delta Chi, Alpha Phi. •rotl\'y ON ALEXAND -ER F·I'ELD 21-·2, 21-~ ; ehl .P>:>i wun o.vet· 'llhetu Kappa Big·ma ........... 5 1 .8;13 Delta vs. !'hi Sigma Delta. E~n;ng--Phi' Gelta Theta vs. Chi . ·. B .. Y: . . . . . . T 0 N t • Delta C'lli, 21-8; 21-H; .s· gnm L'hi b<>at l'h·i Psi ................. ~ tl .5uU :llmui.,t·)' . :Psi,. Phi Sigma Del'ta vs. Delta Phi, 0 · p·pose . .. e men KaptJa S.gma ·(default); Llel:ta l'lli \\'t•ll Kappa Alpha · · · · · · · · · · · · 2 4 · 33 :l · · 'l'heta Deltu ('hi vs. Alpha Phi Delta, uver 1 ldta Chi, 21-15. 21-20; Phi lJelta 'l'heta Delta l'hi ...... · ·. u .uuu Xuun-Kappa .::\.u vs. I' ill Della -\'eutra.ls vs. Ka.ppa Sigma, .Beta Theta R 'Theta defeuM'd Phi Sigma 'llella. :!1-11, * * * Tluo>ta. fl,•lta Phi ys, S gn'l<l Phi. 'l'si Pi vs. 'l'heta Nu iElpc,ilon. GEORGE R. CORY, J • · i-~1. 21-li:i; Beta 'eht:tu Pi beat the WEST,ER:. .J·.iuorg t'psilon \'S. 0hi Psi, Al!•ha Phi llelt.1 l\loutlav Garnet to Play at Williams .. :>i'Autl'3:1s. n-21. 21 b. ~I-1·G; chi P~i Alpha Phi n .. lla ........ '' a 1.ooo ,.<. Del.t« L'hl. • ·beat Delta Phi, 21·11, ~1-1~; Theta :-<eut.mls ................. G ·I' .o33 t,;veniiig-Theta Nu J.Jpsilon vs. · Noon-Phi ;ligma. Delta, vs. Theta W . H'\';n HA·Pl'ENED TO HARRY Today -in Last Away Match; Xu I~psilon defeate-d :K'!JIPR Sig·mn. tdL·· !'Jelta U1Jsilotl ............ 3 3 .5uo L::uni.H:la Chi Al!iila, Phi Gamma DelLa Delta Chi, Delta UnSJi!on vs. Delta Phi, n.·• fault) ; Alpha Phi JJulttt w<m .over D•d- Delta Chi ............... 1 .1Gti \'S. Beta 'l'heta PI, I{appa Alpha vs. Beta '['lleta Pi' vs. SiglJla Chi, Phi Gam- PARKER'~ p k VermontersHereTomorrow ·~a Chi, 21-6, 12-21, 21-9; Lamblia Chi Phi Bigma. Delta ........ 1 .143. Kup 1 \' Sigma, Delta. Uvsilon vs. Neu- ma I%lta vs. Kappa Sigma, Pill Gam- Two years ago Hany at er. Alpha beat Kap.pa Nu (default).; Del· \' * * Lr,ls. ma Delta vs. Theta Nu Epsilon. then a sophomor-e, s.hatt~red ~h~ --- ta llr>s:ilon heat Phi Sigma Delta, 21-19, Um:seqlwt•s 'Jlues<ln~· IDven.ing-Alpha ·Phi Delta vs. Chi coJl'eae u:cord i-n the )avelln thto-w 21-1U; 'l'lwta lll•ll\ Clti beat llella Phi, NATIONAL LEAO-FF. Psi, Phi Sigma Delta vs; Delta Chi, U ·P a..,t Hamiltun with a 174 f?ot A squad of seven tennis players 21-8. 21·14; Beta '1'hetu Pi won nvN W r, Av :Noon-Kappa ::\'u vs. Lambtla Chi Phi Delta 'Pheta vs. Delta Phi, Kappa b f ohng left for Williams early this after- Phi Uammu llelt!L. H·ll, ~1-Lu, l•ultiL .. \l.t•ha Phi l>dta ......... 10 ll l.iiUii Al!'ha. ·Pdt'c Phi''\· !'hi L:alllllJa. [lt'ltn, :-.:u \'><·. Ka·ppa Sigma, Neutrals vs. heave. Parker had: e~n ° noon to play the last contest away l'psilon del'eatect .Dplta Chi 'lllel'anlt); l'l1i nella 'l'iu•la ......... G 2 .7.50 1-'>li UpHilon \'H. Happa i:ligma, AltJha Theta Nu _Epsilon·, B~ta Theta Pi vs. ar·ound with the Javelm on the from home for .the Garnet this year. L,tmhrla ('hi Alpha uent Phi !-lamina. t'hi PHi ............. • ... G 3 .666· PIIi Delta vs. Net111'als. I~ambda Cl1i Alpha. Wedne>Jday pt·eviuu::; to t~e mEet b b 1-l<\lta 21-G. 21·2; A.lphn Phi il<\ll:t \'''\ ll<>lta l'p~ilon ........... G 4 .5110 -================================~ and. he lool ted good to Btll .Ketz Chrysler, Keats, .Stroe el, Ro e.rts, o\'er Delta. Phi, ~t-ti, l:H>. Th~ta !Jelta L'lll .. , ..... ,, ·l .:.~;, r I h t Cohen and either Fox or V\Tarner • .,. IJPlta !'hi ................ :1 X .273 So the Gar-net mentoi too~ 1 m 0 will play singles, while the doubles P~hi :-iig·ma J.>t·lta · · .. · · · · 1 .2:..!~ FOR ALL KINDS OF BREAD, ROLLS & CAKE Hamilton and he btolte the tecoid. combinations will line up as fol- S'l'ANIHNGS llt'!ta t'hi ................ u tu .oou. The following weelt Hany con· 1 K t * * \ tinued· to throw the spear fot !ows: Mof-fett and Stroebe; ea s A~fF.IU<'A.l'l LlcA(HTF. Union but the next Satulday the and Chrysler; Roberts and Fox. Ensfhall !.amhda t 'hi Alpha .. , .. t• o best he could do was about 160 Today's is the second match of l'IOR'l'Hl~R'i J.l,,\II.!Tf·~ ~~~;~,.~l~t·t.l~. 1 .'~.::::::::::.' 6 2 2 feet. A.f.ter that he couldn't do any; the sea.son for the Massachusetts \\' [, A'' Higma t'hi ............... r, 4 .thing at all and he never ha. team. In their only other start they 1\nJ'I'n. Xu ............... :; n 1.111111 'l'hda :-:u gp,.iloll ....... f, :; since. df'feated Haverford by a 7 to 1 Phi I lelta Tlwtn ........ 4 .tiiill K:q>p:t -\'u ............... •! ii It S ~o. 111 , 8 . that hP dPvt>loped ,;core on their home courts. Itt view Higma l'hi · · ·· · · · · · · • · · · · 4 ,;,.; 11 .,K\ppa H.g·n,a • • • · • • • • • • • • 1 • ,., 1'- of the fact that the Pennsylvania Theta Xu l>~l'\ilnn '' ... , .. l'hl •:· 1111 ma. !Ielta · ..... I lll u sOI'e arm, and hillS n.:'.vt'r r L:uulu!,,. l'hi .ll!•ha ...... o ·\'\' * * • covl'red. He tried agam this team defeated Union by a 4 to 1 • • • . SCHEDULE ..,ear and could not get any- ;core earlier in the- season, there l,A.STER:'Ii LEAOl'E W • here. oeems to be little chance for a Gar- Alr>ha Delta Phi ........ ;, 1 h I n 11 -·• · t th' ft Bf'tn Tlwta 1'1 ........... 4 I 'The !lame thing liS tapp.- ...... net VIC o:ry 1s a ernoon. Pili <la.mma p.,-l!a .•.... \ :1 l.lllill . 777 .Ifill .:if>iJ .!iOO ,(IJJ(I 't:!:J .!IIlli )Jefo 1 ·e. Bill told me that. be rl'- Tomorrow afternoon the Garnet llelta I 'hi ............... . tll!l'lnbt-l't'd a man tbrowmg .the will play host to Vermont with the Higma Phi · · · · · · · ··· · · · · · 0 Bn.seball 'l~n.tny F.\\t 1 1ling·-Ka}1IJa :\'u v~. Big·n1rt, f'hi, ja.v<'lin a lung d,istancl' tbP lust matches starting at 2:30 o'clock. time he tried it, and then nt>vH m~rk ·again.* * • .JAOK sMirH HAS A l'Al'\T INTRAMURAL LEAGUES coming anywhere nt-lll' his ~ Jack Smith, who ,has been scot· ing plenty of goals fot the ftE'Sh· ~-=====;;;;;;;==--=====.:.t nlUn lacio~se team, haf' had a yem of in tel collegiate expelience. La~t yl.'a.r he played on the N. Y. ,U vat sity, and at thl.' same ttme ti 1ed to bE' an e!l.'cttical enginEer. ThP New Yorkers used to go away on four or five day trips, and Jack would go with them. Once ·in a while he would won- der about his work, but the mana· ger· a::;sured him that he would \get ·by all right.\ He got by with good enough marks until the finals, th~;n boom, out he went. Now he b he1 e whet e athletics are 1 un as they should be, and he lil1es it. NOTHING TO SAY THIS WEEK The1e will be no prognostica· tions of the Hamilton hack meet tontonow. Thi:o is not becau>e of the mise1able flop that I made laet weelt, but becau~e thet e a1 e a bso· lutely no definite figuns on Hamil· ton. All we know about them is that they have a very wealt team. I wouldn't blame anybody if they didn't believe me, but Bill Ketz i>' shooting for 100 points tomm row, and he ::;hould come cloH. Our good friend· Gus tf'lls me bls intuition will be working in two weekb'. We meet Trinit)' bere at that timP, and whll.. I don't know wlmt his lntu.ltion will tell him, l lmpe ht\ is wrung, bt•cause lw has b .. <'ll Jllal!.ing life mhsemble fur ~uurs tnll~ en•r bince tlw di\a~huus colm1111 of ont' wet>k agu. 24 - Hour Service That's What We Give You With lOOo/o Guarantee of Perfect Workmanship in All Our Lines of Cleaning LUX CLEANERS Phone 4-8700--131 Slate St. THE NEW DENTISTRY A Phase of Preventive Medicine College Men 6nd in it unusual opportunities for a career THE Harvard University Dental School offers a competent course of preparation for the dental profession. RESULTS ::-1igma Chi L£>a.t Phi Delta Thuta 14·:1; Alt•ha n~lla. Phi won over Sig- rua Pill 10~7 ~ Chi Pt->i IJ~at Tht\ta Dt>l- ta t'hi, '(default) ; Phi Bigma Delta de- ff'at~•l !Jelta l'hi, 9-5; Kappa Nu beat ThE-ta Su J•:!Jsilon, ~i-6; Beta Theta Pi heat llt-lta Phi. 8-:l; Psi Upsilon won over l{aptJa Alpha, 1:1-2; Alpha Phi llt'lta L .. at n .. tta Fp~ilon. 5-4; !'hi Del- ta Theta beat Lambda ('hi Al!>ha. 24-6 : !'hi namrna. llelta def£>ated ::;·gma Phi, !6-19; Kapr>a Sigma defeated l'hi PHi, 15-12; :-.: .. utrals beat Delta Chi, 23-i; Th<-la ;sou J·~p~<ilon dt<feated Sigma Chi. \U·!I; Alr>ha llelta Phi ti<'d Beta Theta Pi, 10-111 lgame enlle•l hel'ause of darl<- lll\<>l) ; l<ap!Ja Alpha defeated Theta llelt:I C'hi !dPfault): Ilt>lta llpHilon won a~n·r Phi Higyna llt->lta, 14-4. THE UNIVERSITY OF BUFFALO School of Dentistry A three year course of inst:t'uction, quarter plan. The dental and medical divisions are close- ly affiliated. Dental students have two years of basic medical study under direction and super- vision ·of the medical faculty. Clinical practice of dentistry >in all ils varied aspects, is supervised by the dental division and is connected with the clinics of several hospitals. These combined in- stitutions offer an unusually helpfuJ experience in clinical observation, diagnosis and treatment of den tal conditions. The next regular session will open july 2nd, 1934. For further infnrmation address School a.f Dentiistry, 25 Goodrich Street, Buffalo, N. Y. A \Cuss A\ ScuooL Writ/! for rataloque :·c·:c::::·:~::::;:::~~:::::,:::;:;:~:;::::::::~:; .... ; .·.~·:.:::::::::·::::::.:::::::· .. ::;~::::-:!·>:•.- .. {:::·:: Loroy M. S. Minor, D MD .• M.D., Deu Dept 21. 188 Longwood Avo. 8o10ton. Malt. Froy-joy Ice Cream has been awarded the \Good Housekeeping\ seal of ap- proval. carefully awarded for purity, cleanliness and qual· ity of ingredients. At Your Dealer's Store or PHONE 4-3121 ® 19H. I.!GOI'l\r &: MY.llll$ ToBACCO Co. FREIHOFER'S ; . FREE DELIVERY PHONE 2-3500 ~IIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ __ HotelVanCurler: Recognized for Years as Headquarters for Union Students, Alumni, and Their Friends ANNOUNCE THEIR NEW TAP ROOM Although New ... Already Popular •.. Delicious Food and Refreshing ·· == Beverages ... At Moderate Prices = ~IIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUI:~I~~~:UHIII::~~::I::::I:::I:III~I~H:::IUIII~IIHI·U~ ,_ \ ) > .. I ! I I ' ,f == Vo = Ne~ I R> ban! city' nigl ienc mar gue1 in a seat sta.i 1:30 T: pro• whi tion T Ho~ Vil( ary in ~ of eve res1 ha.s a d the T ga.r uns to · cie< to lea· haE of at FrE C]BJ bot the or ful Ba: ar to lea he1 fin I inj tul the wh pie wo hu: th( J fat ed' of· thE hu pa an do· Ge th1 diE Jo we saJ we RE w Sn Ca co IDi B1 wl on be au il.Ii m. H D

eta Chi ppa; vs. vs. ,, I. I >\ I ! •. I I I ' i I I I I Prize Day Exerei·ses To Be Held Tomorrow Mornin:g Vol. LVII., No. 55 Capacity Audience Expected to Attend • Play 'S .. S. Tenacity' · Advance Reservations Point To FuU Bo,tses :Both NightS At Mountebanks Production D1·ess Rehearsal Tonight New Switchboard Ready for Performance N ex·t Fl'iday Reservations for the Mounte- banks production of \S. S. Tena- city\ for Prom night and Saturday night indicate that a capacity aud- ience will witness both perfor- mances. Students who will bring guests are purchasing their seats in advance to assure themselves of seats. Tickets are being sold up- stairs in Silliman Hall daily from 1:30 to 3 o'clock. 'I ~· ·-~ ' j ' .~ UNION COLLEGE~ SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, MAY 8, 1934 TIDSWEEK: Tonight Chess Club Meeting, Kappa Nu, Prom Band Leader Might Have Been Chemist Instead of Hot Jazz Mas 8 p.m. Tomol'l'Ow Fletcher \Smack\ Daily Assembly, Prize Day, · who is to participate in the speaker, Dr. H. C. Coffin. . of music Friday night in the Payment of Diploma fee. · ni Gym, was born in Cuthbert, Ga. Athletic Board Meeting in Gym, on December 18, 1898. His father, a 7:30 p. m. teacher, inspired Henderson to pur- Publication Board .Meeting, 4:30 sue academic studies, therefore, p. m. when the time came, Fletcher en- Baseball, Union vs. St. Stephens tered Atlantic University and re- at Schenectady. ceived his Bachelor of Arts degree Thursday · with the Class of 1920. Daily Assembly, Dr. John L. Wanted to Be Chemist March. Music as a vocation was not in Radio Club Meeting at noon in Fletcher Henderson's mind when Electrical Lab. he began his studies. He aspired to Friday be a great chemist. The lure of the piano and basking in the theatrical Spotlight, however, finally won out. Moving-Up Day exercises. In 1925 Leora Meoux, an accom- L • s plished trumpet player, married a allgmmr to Peak man who is reported to possess a · · · . · · charming, gentlemanly manner and At Meet l . n g Here a modest, warming personality. · • That man· who is just one-half inch short of six: feet and weighs about 187 pounds :was Fletcher Hender- son. FLETCHER HENDERSON Assembly of Resea1·ch Men, Teachers of Chemistry to Discuss Educational Plans Fletcher's first engagement was at the Club Albam, a Broadway night club. Henderson's rise to the top has been steady and sure. He Q t• • A was no overnight sensation, but UeS IOnnaires re ................. •• StS Tickets .Now On Sale For Play This Weekend Fom; Candidates A1·e Chosen For Goodrich-Duane Debate The tryouts for the extemporan- eous Goodrich-Duane debate, which were held in the old chapel yester- day afternoon resulted in the choice of four men from the nine candi- dates to debate Thursday, June 8, on a subject not yet announced. . The four men chosen were Joseph Woolman, Thomas Crowley, Leslie Long, and John Ward, '34. The general subject has been an- ' nounced as \The Present relation- ship of government and business in the United States,\ and the spe- cific topic will be announced at 5:00 o'clock on the afternoon of the de- bate, which starts at 8:00 p. m. The teams wiH be composed of Wool- man and Crowley against Long and Ward. Fox,Waldron,North On 1934-35 Council Twenty-nineNominated From Three Lower Classes for Student Council Next Year PRICE FIVE CENTS Scholarships And Prizes Distributed At Annual Exercise . Over $2,000 in Scholarships, Nineteen Awards Given to Union Students Tomorrow Dr. Coffin Will Speak Assembly Will Last an Hour; Class Periods Shortened Over thirty prizes and scholar- ships will be awarded to Union Stu- dents at the third annual Prize Day exercises in the Memorial Chapel tomorrow morning. Dr. Harrison C. Coffin, Chairman of the Division of Languages and Literature and Professor of Greek will address the student body. ' The usual daily assembly period will be extended for an hour and the remaining class periods short- ened accordingly. The first dress rehearsal for the production will be held tonight, which will be followed by an addi- tional rehearsal tomorrow night. The play, translated by Sidney Dr. Irving langmuir, the 1933 Howard from the French of Charles Nobel Prize winner in chemistry, Vildrac, distinguished contempor- will be the principal speaker at the ary dramatist, is the story of life third annual chemical education in a French seaport town. It tells rather by attraction that won pub- N t y t c d lie favor and kept .building it. 0 e ompute Austin Fox :;~;nd William Waldron P1-efers Hot MusiB ___ of the class of 1935 were carried Ni;neteen prizes will be given, in- cludmg cash awards totalling ap- proximately $460, two cups, three medals, and twenty dollars worth of boo~s. Thirteen scholarships, amountmg to $2,410, will be award- ed on the basis of scholastic stand- ing, giving preference in most cases to upper classmen, He prefers to play hot music be- over for nex:t year's Student Coun- cause he feels that his orchestra is Political Science Department ell, It was revealed at the student. of the experiences of humble, meeting of eastern New York sec- everyday people as it is seen in the tion of the American Chemical restaurant of Madame Cordier. It Society, which will take place here has no definite \plot but there is best fitted to project that type. In S St d t 0 • • body meeting this morning when directing his band Henderson is not urveys U en piniOn nominations were made public. the shouting temperamental type On Instructors, Grading Robert North, '36, was carried over Varied Prizes to Be Presented The prizes include: the Allan Es- say Prizes established from a fund of $1,000, for the three best essays on any subject by members of the senior class; the Allison Prizes, $25 $15, and $10, given to the three stu~ dents who have contributed most to intercollegiate debating· the Archibald High Scholarship 'Prize the income from $1,500, awarded t~ the senior taking Latin who has the hi?hest scholarship standing; the Ba1ley Cup for the senior who has rendered the greatest service to !-he college; the Dagget Prize, the mterest of a fund of $1,000, given to a senior for outstan<U1lg conduct and character; the Fuller Prizes, two medals, awat'ded to the sopho- more and the senior doing the best work in Chemistry; the Leonard Chester Jones Memorial Prize, a medal and $20, for the upper class- men having the best record in French; the Robert G. O'Neale Pri:t:e of $15 for the student taking Latm who has the highest stand- ing during four years of college· the Louis Oppenheim Class of 1875 Prize, given to the freshman tak- ing ~atin who has the highest standmg; the Pullman Prizes $40 each, to a classical E.tudent and an engineer of the graduating class· the Richmond Prize for excellenc~ ~n fine arts; the Sternfeld Prize, the mterest of $1,000, for the best es- say in philosophy; the James Henry Turnbull Prize, the income from $1,000 for the sophomore who ex- cells in Physics; the Van Orden a decided and rising action which Saturday. One hundred and fifty the author has sldllfully guided. chemists and chemistry teachers of leader. He gets t•eslilts quietly, to serve on tbe Junior Board of the calmly, and efficiently under the --- 1934-35 council. personal guidance and advice of The questionnaires distributed Sixteen nominations were ma:de the dean !>f orchestral pilots, Irv- Friday and Saturday to the stu- from the junior class, eight from ing Mills. the sophomore class, and five from Wish to Emigrate .are invited to attend the proceed- Fletcher's ambitions run to the dents in the political science the freshman class. Of these, eight writing and arranging of all types courses have been collected but not juniors were to be elected, three of music. His brain is filled with yet tallied, Dr. Wilson L. Godshall, sophomores and three freshmen. melodies begging . .for expression head of the political science depart- The elections will be announced on Two young men, Bastien and Se- . gard, having come out of the war mgs. unscathed, do not wish to go back The address of Dr. Langmuir will to their job of typesetting, and de- be supplemented by motion pic- cied to emigrate to Canada. Coming tures, and discussion groups. Dr. to the seaport where their ship ~dwa:rd Ellery,. who was head of leaves, they find that an accident the chemistry department for more bas necessitated the postponement than twenty-five years before be- of the sailing. They decide to stay coming the executive head of the at the hotel ruu by a typical college, will greet the visitors and His \Harlem Madness\ which he Moving-Up Day, Friday. d d f Viet . . . . ment, announced yesterday. The· recor e or or 1s defmite ev1- Junior Class Nominees dence of his originality and capa- questionnaires, which have been bility in writing. distributed by the department, in Those nominated from the class When Mr. Henderson is not too of 1935 are: William Brockwehl, a diffHent form each time, for the Ch 1 D · L d E\ b d Frenchwoman of the lower middle speak briefly. busy adding to his fame he plays ar e~ :;~;m, eonar tsen u , a little football or bridge, and every last five years, are used to improve Hugh Elwyn, Clemens Hathaway, once in a while a little spot of bil- the teaching of the courses, raise Norman Hess, William Jenkins, class, Madame Cordier. While there Sessions in Buttei'filllld Lab both men fall in love with Therese, the barmaid. Segard,. who is more or less weak-willed, is unsuccess- ful in his wooing, and the decisive Bastien goes off with Therese. As a result, Segard, who was unwilling to leave France, becomes anxious to leave, while his friend, who was heart and soul of the expedition, The sessions will take place in liards. the students interest in and profit James Loomis, Raymond McDowell, finally remains at. home. Into this framework the author injects his philosophy, which pos- tulates that destiny draws equally those who resist its force or those who answer his call. His mouth- piece is Hidoux, an old, drunken, workman, whose philosophy and hum!>r form the pivotal point of the plsy. Humorous Characters Although It cannot be called a far-ce comedy, it is far from a trag- edy. It has an underlying current of quiet but appealing humor, and the type .of play makes for many humorous chara<:ter!~tioM ip, the parts of Hidoux, Madame Cordier, and others. The cast of th~ play will be Hi- doux, Abraham Smith, '35; Segard, George P. Haskell, '37; Bastien, Ar- thur J. Firth, Jr., '38; Madame Cor- dier, S. Ralph Cohen, '37; Therese, John B. Dowling, Jr., '37; a young workman, Richard Diamond, '35; a sailor, Paul Wassmansdorf, '34; workmen IUld sailors, Charles Reeves, 1 37, Harold Freidman, '37, William C. :Bennett, '34, Robert Smith, '37, and William :Miesse, '37. According to Director Edward L. Carroll, the new swi~chboard being constructed by the lighting depart- ment under the direction of Robert Brown, '35, and John White, '35, wlll be ready for the performance on Friday. The setting, which will be in conventional style has been augmented by a 'backdrop designed and painted by Sidney D. Mark- roan, ·•34, Harry Rositzke, '31, Awarded Dexter Traveling Scholarship Harry A. Rqsitzke., '31, former editor of The Idol and major in the a~partment of English whHe at Union, wl:).o has been studying at Harvard in preparation for ·his doctorate hrui been awarded the Charles Dexter scholarship ·for next yeru:. This· scholarship will pay his expenses to study in England next year. The terms of the scholarship ar.e th'Bt it should \encoura.ge young men to study profoundly ~he English language and to enable them to visit Oxford and Cam- ·bridge or the cathedral towns in England·.\ the Butterfield Chemical laboratory. Duncan McNab, John Moffett, Don- Dr. Newell T. Gordon, of the Gen- H k ' 1 from the courses, and to develop ald Moulton, James Rotunda, Ralph eral Electric. Research Laboratory . 0 0 e s a w Is harmony between the students and Semerad, Maus Stea:rns, anti Thor- and president of the E. N. Y. S. of instructors. They also draw opin- ton Whipple. the A. c. s., will open the morning Confirmed by Sayer· ions from the students concerning Sophomores who were nominated session at 10:15 o'clock. After a are: Burton DeLack, Guy Griswold, buffet luncheon is served in the ___ the text books used in the course. Charles Krull, Joseph Milano, Rob- laboratory, the seminar group will The forms consist of twenty·one ert Nelson, Albert Stevenson, Van meet at 1:30 for an hour's discus- New Yo1·k Demonstration of questions, each of which is to be Vechten Trumbull, a:nd Van Ant- sion of mutual problems. The dele- Precision Helical Snrings Is marked according to three grades. werp Waldron. The freshmen who gates will then be the guests of the ~\\ These queotioru have to do with were nominated are: Ernest Brown, athletic department at the varsity Outcome of Hayer's Work class preparation, assignments, stu- Kenneth Brown, James Doyle, Rob- baseball, track or lacrosse contests dent interest, the system of grad- crt Everest, and Donald Liffiton. to be played against Clarkson, --- ing, feeling between the instructor Besides those who are carried Rochester, and c. c. N. Y. respec- The development of a spring and students, the teacher's sense over, McNab, Semerad, Griswold, tively. scale so accurate that it will indi- of proportion and the personal ap- Doyle, and Liffiton are members of Topics which will be discussed at cate the differ:-ence in the earths pearance of the professor. the retiring Student Council. the afternoon seminar include: pull (gravity) on ten pounds be- Although the forms have not According to the constitution of H h f d th h ld tween New York and Quebec will been .officially counted yet, a cur- the Student Council, nominations ow muc 0 mo ern eory s ou be demonstrated tht's afternoon at 1 th h th 1 d for each board are made by the re- and can be incorporated into a sory g ance roug em revea e high school course in chemistry? John Chatillon and Sons, New •hat most of the answers were com tiring board and ar:-e not disclosed The place and importance of mo- York, where outstanding mechani- plimentary to the courses as 'they until the time of elections. tion pictures in high school and col- cal engineers will gather to view are now taught. The new council will be the . Th the result of the five year research One student remarked: \When I fourth group of student council- lege courses in ch~~rnstry. e use i11to the design and behavior of pre- decided to tll.)l;e this course my in- men to be elected since the adop- of models in high school and col- cision helical springs. Professor t.erest in political science was -at a tion of the Student Coundl as the lege chemistry instruction. Mortimer F. Sayre, A. V. de Forest low ebb; now I consider the course governing organ of the student The committee in charge of ar- and Robert B. Wasson who con- one of the best I have taken or body over two years ago. Members rangements for:- the meeting con- ducted this research will be present will ever take.\ serve for a term of one year. sists of Dr. Charles B. Hurd, chair- to discuss the theory underlying --------~--~------------------­ man, Dr. Egbert K. Bacon, Dr. the new springs at today's demon- Civil War Fever Divided Union Into Two Factions; Drill Squad Organized Thomas A. Wilson, Dr. Fredericlt C. stratton. Schmidt, and William Fiedler. Professor Sayre together with Dr. E. E. Cummins Given Grant for Research Study the other engineers mentioned worked during the past five years on finding the errors in the old springs and on designing the new springs which are made of chrome By WALTER L. HORSTMAN nickel steel and a small amount of the Union College Zouaves. The The Social Science Research ot. her alloys and of special shapes. During the latter part of Dr. E 1 E N tt ' 'd th aff · f th body was drllled from morning to Council has awarded Dr. ar . This called for a special study of o s pres1 ency e a1rs o e th ti h . · i night in every available lot on the Cummins a grant-in-aid for ano er the geometrical changes in the di- na on were approac mg a cr1s s i d h f th th · t campus, and on the pastures in the year so that he may continue h s mensions of the old type spring un- an ec oes o e ga ermg s orm study of craft unionism. Dr. Cum- der load. of the civil war were heard within suburbs of the city by Elias Peiss- th 11 F th ner, Professor of German and eco- mins is one of the 46 scholars In Of special interest to science and e co ege. Qr many years e i S th had t · t d t t nomics. The Zouaves carried a flag, the United States who will rece ve industry are the findings .in. rela.- ou sen more s u en s o U · h h N h · made by Mrs. Peissner, which was a share of the more .than $22,000 tion to Hooke's Law first published mon t an any ot er ort ern m- award.ed \to assist mature scholars in 1678: \the power of an\ spring stitution, and the number seemed to one of -the college's most valued ~ · th · •t bl ti _, possessions. All the members of the to complete research proJ'ects a!- is in. the same proportion with the mcrease as e mev1 a e sec on.,.. f .l. t. d th t b f company· enlisted for service in the ready well under way\. tension thereof.\ Modern measur- con 1c rew near so a · e ore · th tr 1 th war many rising to positions of Dr .. Cummins use.d his g-rant dur- ing instruments have revealed that e s uggle near Y every sou ern k - t t · t d th ran both in the army and navy. ing the current year principally for Hooke's Law is subJ'ect to devia- s a e was represen e among · e Th . d d M f h t etr leader and instructor, Colonel ga thering· material for his study. tions. The research by Professor un ergra uates. any o t ese s u- . · d t th f th . h PeiSsner, who had had military ex- Next year he plans .to use the funds Sayre and others has go.ne much en s were e sons o · e nc __, 1 t It i t h penence in Europe, rapidly ad· ·mainly for writing. farther than disproving Hooke. It P an ers. s no strange,. t ere- d t th t th 1 h d 'th h · vance o a colonelcy, but fell in In his book Dr. Cummins will has succeeded in f1evising a helical a ey c as e Wl t etr the battle of Chancellorsvilie. Later .,.;v· e a great d:eal of attention to spring that, within close limits con, IN·n,.,fh<•l'n brothers, and that fre- G d Ar .,. f a ran my Post in Rochester the conflict between craft (horizon- forms to Hooke's law. This new quent arguments were ·allowed by was named after him. tal) unionism atid industrial (ver- type of spring is made from this blows. Since the war few students from tical) unionism that has arisen as newly manufactured metal which is When at last, the South withdrew the South have been seen on our a result of ·the attempt to introduce unaffected by wide changes in tem- from the Union these students left campus. Southern institutions have collective bargaining under the N. perature. college to take up arms for their grown up and it takes several gen- R. A. The three engineers will deal · and at the same time, many erations to cool animosity such as In addition to being .professor of with the interesting findings as to of their comrades from the No·rth .that which existed between North economics, Dr. Cummins Is also temperature changes in metals, enlisted to preserve the Union. and South during the trying times chairman of the Social Studies Di- hysteresis (internal friction of me- Within a few year:-s the college was from 1861 to 1865. It is hoped that vision. He has mitten much on the tals by outside magnetic forces) a shadow of its former self. as time goes on more students from .labor problem itt the United States snd creep (after effect on metals The story had ·often been told of the south will come back .to make and is considered one of the major after external force has been ap- the company composed, for the .Union as cosmopolitan as she once authorities· in this fiield. plied and removed). most part, of s·tudents and called was. Prize for:- the best essay by a fresh- man; and the Warner Cup, award- ed to a senior:- for high standing, character, and deportment. Thirteen Scholarships The scholarships which will be awarded are: two Fuller Medical s.cholarships of $150 each; the Wil- ham L. Oswald Scholarship of $250· the Daniel F. Pullman Scholarship of $120; the William C. Saxton SchO- larship of $150; the Horace B. Silli• man Scholarship of $300; the Frank B. and Johnson Ide Snell Scholar- ships of $100 each; the Gilbert M. Spier Mem!>ria.I Scholarship of $90· the Chester C. Thorne Scholarship of $200; the Cornelia Veeder Scho- larship of $200; and two Samuel Sherwood Wakeman Scholarships of $300 each. These awards used to be made at commencement, but in 1932 the faculty voted to establish a Prize Day for their presentation. This was. done both because of the lack of tl~e at the graduation exercises ~nd morder to give special signif- Icance to the character of the awards. Student Body Votes to Adopt Report of Council Student Body Meetings will be held on the first five Mond:ays of the college year and monthly there- after, according to the decision made this morning in assembly when the student body voted to ac~ cept the report of the council com- mtttee. It ?'as also decided to close the meetmgs With the singing of .the ~m!L Mater and to open them by .smgmg some other college song. At each meeting sport captains will re- port the athletic results.

hi, ~ I ., .......... I Prize Day Exel'Ci·ses To Be Held Tomorrow : Moming 1 t I t I !...--....--------· Vol. LVII., No. 55 Capacity Audieace Expected to Attend Play '80 Se Tenacity' Advance Reservations Point To Full Houses Both Nights At Mountebanks Production Dress Rehearsal Tonight New Switchboard Ready for Performance Next Friday trnsts aa••••a...,.., Tickets Now On Sale Fol' Play This l \\'eel\ end t ___ , __ __, UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, l\IAY 8, 193\1 PRICE FIVE CENTS THIS Wl<~EK: Tonight Chess Club Meeting, Kappa Nu, 8 p.m. Ton10rruw Daily A:;:;embly, P1 ize Day, speaker, Dr. H. C. Coffin. Payment of Diploma fee. Athletic Board: .Meeting in Gym, 7:30 p. m. Publication Boatd Meeting, 4:30 p. Ill. Basct>all, Union vs. St. Stt•phens at Schenectaay. Thursday Daily A:;sembly, Dr. John L. March. Radio Club Meeting at noon in Electrical Lab. Friday Moving-Up Day exet ci,;es. Prom Band Leader Might Have Been 1 ~ ~~~~~r <~~~~~·ii~~~~~~::~: Chenlist Instead of Ilot Jazz Master1 Chosen Debate ~--- Fletcher \Smack\ Hemlerson,! jii;::i7~~®'ii~~@;:5;;;;;;;;;?:;i who i~ to pa 1 ticipute in the battlf• of mu~ic Friday night in the Alum- I ni Gym, was but n in Cuthbert Ga . on December 18, 11.'98. His fath'er, ~ i teacher, in,;pired Henderson to pur- sue academic sttldies, therefore, when the time came, Fletchet· en- tel ed Atlantic t:mversity and re- ceived his Bachelor of Arts degree with the Class of 1920. \Vantt•d to Be Chrmist Music as a vocation was nut in Fletcher Hender~on':; mind when he began his ~tudies. He a~pired to be a greJ.t chembt. ThE' lure of the piano and ba\·king in the th<'atrical spotlight, however, finally won out. Till' tt yuut~ fut th<' extetnput an- <·ull.' !itHHitich DuallL' ,[.-Late, which Wt·J\ hl'!J l1l tht: old \hapd yc,;tel- day altt·Jilulltl 1 t'.-.Ultt·d in tht> choit·t· c.f fqur nu·n fz otll the nill~\ ('andi- <btlt· . .- tu LidJal<· Thm·,day. June 8. un a !-Ubje~..·t tlt1t yt-t annuUlh e1l. Tlw fuul' lllt'n ch(),en Wt'lt' Ju>f'Joh \\'uollllall. Thuwas CJ uWl<·y, l.t•>;Jil· Long-, a.n<l John \\'m d, '31. Tht· ~· tl!'tal subject has IH\L\tl an- n(juuccd a,; \Tht· Prt·>ent tl'lation- .-.hip <tf govt·tniilC'llt and bn:-inL·s~ in tlH· Cntt<'d Stall•.-,\ Hnu t!H' spe- cific tt1pic \Vill bt_ annuunc-ul at 5:00 (,'cl.H._.k on tht~ aftt·lH01Jl1 of tlw !k- hat•·. whir·h cl:t!l\ at I' (Ill p. Ill. Tlw tt.•,ti:l:' \\. ;!! bt> ('f,Il1J,O:O:t·d uf \\.of'!· n1:-u1 ai!d Ct {J\Vk\· a~ain:-:t Lon...:: ant! \\'at,]. · 0 Scholarships And Prizes Distributed At Annual Exercise Over ::;:z,uoo in Scholai·ships, :\'ineteen Awards Given to L'nion Student:-; Tomorrow Dr. ('off in \Viii Speak A;;sembly Will Last an Hour; ('lass Periods Shortened Over thit ty pi iz~·s and ,.chular- ~hip . .; will 'be awardt·d to t:niun Stu- dent:; at the thud annual l'rize Day L·Xet Cbc•::; m the :\lem01 ial Chapel tomurt ow mornin~,;. Reservation.; for the Mounte- banks production of \S. S. Tena- city\ for Prom night and Saturday night indicate that a capacity aud- ience will witness both perfor- mances. Students who will bring ;.;-ue>'ts arc purchasing their seat:; in advance to assure Lnemselve:; of seat,;. Ticket:; are being sold up- stairs in Silliman Hall daily ft om 1:30 to 3 o'cloclc Langmuir to Speak At Meeting Here In 1925 Leora Meaux, an accom- plished t1 umpet player. married a man who is 1 eported to po,;,;p,;s a charming. gl'ntlc-manlv manner and a modest, warming p<'rsonality. That man whu is just one-half inch short of six feet and Wt'ighs about 187 pounds wa~ FlPtcher Hender- son. Fox, Waldron,N orth On 1934 .. 35 Council Dr. Harn~on C. Coffin, Chairman uf the Divbion <of L:t n;.; uage,; and Lttetatut e and l't of<>.-<JJ' of Gt eel{ will add!l'.-S th~ ,.tud•·nt body. ' T!w u'ual dally a.>.'emhly I'Niod wtll be cxknJed for nn huur and the I'L'lllaining cla~s periods ::;hort- Pned accordingly. The first dress reheat·sal for the production will be held tonight, which will be followed by an addi- tional rehear:;al tomon·ow night. Assembly of Research Men, Teachers of Chemistry to Discuss Educational Plans Fletcher·~ fit:ot engagement was at the Club Albam, a Btoadway night club. Hend:!rson's rise to Lhe top has been steady and sure. He was no overnight sensation, but rather by attraction that won pub- lic favor and kept building it. Questionnaires Are Not Yet Computed Twenty-nine ::\'ominated From Three Lower Clas:-:es for Studt-nt Council ::\'ext Year :'o<ineteen pttzt·s will be given, in- <\ludmg caoh award~ totalling ap- ptoximately $460, two cup:;, three medals, and twenty dollars worth of books. Thirt,·en scholarships, a.mounting to $2,410, will be award- ed on the basi::; of scholastic stand- ing, giving preference in n1u:-;t cases to upper clus~men. Prefers Hot Music The play, translated by Sidney Howard from the French of Charles Vildrac, distinguished contempor- ary dramatist, is the stOJ y of life in a French seaport town. It tells of the experiences of humble, everyday people as it is seen in the restaurant of Madame Cordier. It has no definite \plot but there b a decided and rising aclion which the author has skillfully guided. \'\'ish to Emigmte Two young men, Bastien and Se- gard, having come out of the war un~cathed, do not wish to go bacl1 to their job of typesetting, and de- cied to emigrate to Canada. Coming to the seaport where their ship leave\ they find that an accident has n<:>cessitated the postponement nf the sailing. They decide to stay at the hotel ruTJ. by a typical Frenchwoman of the low<:>r middle class, Madame Cordier. \While there both men fall in love with There:;e, the barmaid. Segard, who is more or less weak-willed, is unsucces::;- ful in his wooing, and the d~cioive Bastic•n goes off with Thet·ese. As n result, Regard, who was unwilling to leavP France, becomes anxious to leavr, while his friend, who wa\ heart and soul of the expedition. fmally remains at home. Dr. Irvmg langmuir, the 1933 Nobel Prize winner in chemistry, will be the principal speaker at the third annual chemical education meeting of eastern New Yolk sec- tion of the American Chemical Society, which will take place hen· Satut·day. One hundred and lifty chemists and chemistt·y teacht'r\ are invited to attend the proceed- ings. He pt·efers to pl!ly hot music be- cause he feels that his orchestra b best fitted to project that type. In directing his band Hencerson is not the shouting temperamental type of leader. He gets 1esults quietly. ealmly, and efficiently undPI\ tht> personal guidance and advice of the dean of ot·chestral pilot~. Irv- ing Mills. Political Science Department Surveys Student Opinion On Instructors. Grading The que~tionn::•lres tlt,;tributed Friday .tnt! Satlll·d:ty tu the ~tu­ dents m the polJttcal :iciencl' cour:;e:; have be~n collected but nut yet t..tllled, Dr. Wibon L. God~hall, head uf the pulitiral ~d.-nee ckpat t- ment, announced ye\terday. The queotwnnaire~. which have• bc•en diitributed by th•' dPpartnwnt. in Austm Fox and \\.illiam \\':t!dnm nf tl1e cla~s of 1935 were can ied uv0r for n<'Xt ye:u·',; StwlPnt Coun- cil. it was revealed at the ~tudent body nwl\\ing thi,; nHJJ ning when nuruinatiun~ \Vt'l e znalil' l'ublie. Hubett :\'u1th, '3t;, wa,o <\:tttit·d ovt·I to H't ve on tlw Junivi !:LOa! <.1 uf tht· lll3l-35 council. Sixtet·n nominations wet e made from the juniot clas,, eight fi om tht• .soplluruur t.: cla:.;:s, and fivt ft oru the fn·shman cb~s. Of tht'.<l', ei~·ht juniur,; Wf'l e to bt• ele<:t~<.l. tht t·P \'i'h<•tnot'\ and th1 t•e fre~hl!H·n. Tlw de<\tions will be announcl•cl on :\lovtng-t:p Day, Fnduy. Yarit<d I' rizes to lll' l'rt•sl\nted The ptizc:o include. the Allan Es- ,,ay 1'1 iz,•:; e~t.tblbheJ fi om a fund of $1,000, fo1· the •htce bc~t e:,:;ays on any subject by members of the ~enior clu:;,;; the Allt,un Pt izes, $23, $15, und $1U, given to the tht·ee :;tu- dento who ha1·e cunti il>uted most to intercoll~giate debating; the Atchtl>ald Htgh Scholar:;hip Prize, the income ftom $1,500, awarded to the ~oeniut· taking Latin who ha,; the hit;ht·st schulur ollip standing; the Batley Cup for the senior who ha:o tendeted the greatest service to the college; the Dagget Prize, the mtere::.t _ut a fund of $1,000, given to a. .oenlur fui uut .. tanJint; conduct and chutactei; the Fullu Prize:;, two m~dal,;. awarded to the sopho- mot e and the senior doing the l>est wui k m Chemi~try; the Leonard Che\tet\ June;:; )lemurbl PI ize a ml'th! nnd $2!.\, for the upper cl~ss­ lll<.:n ha. ving tht· be::;t recot d in French; the Robett G. O'Neale l'tlze uf $1fl fo: the \tudent taking Latm who luo the highe .. t stand- ing during fom· years of college· the Loui,; OpJlcnh,,im Cla>s of un5 Ptiz<>, gil•en to the fre:'hman tak- ing ~,:ttin who ha-; tlw highest ,\:l.ndtng; the Pullman Priz~s, $40 t•,tch, to a cl:t.\.\ical >tUdt•nt ,l!H.l an <'ngincer of the gtat!uating class· the Richmond Prize for excellenc~ in fine arts; the Sternfeld Prize, the mterest of $1,000, for the best es- \ay in philosophy; the Jame,; Henry Turnbull Pt ize, the income from $1.000 fot the :;ophomore who ex- Pel!.; in Phy~ics; the Van Olden Prize fur the best c>:oay by a fresh- man; and the \Varner Cup, award- ed to a ~cnior for high standing, chamcter, and deportment. Into this framework the authot inject.> his phtlo>'ophy, which pus- tulate,.; that de><tiny drd.Ws e4ually those who resist its force or tho:oe who an:;wer his call. His mouth- piece is Hidoux, an old, dtunken, workman, whose philosophy ami humor form the pivotal point of the play. Humorous Charactt\rs Although it cannot be called a farce comedy, it is far from a trag- <>dy. It has an underlying current of quiet but appealing humor, and the type of play makes for many humorous charact<:>rizations in the parts of Hidoux, Madame Cordier, and others. The cast of the play will be Hi- doux, Abraham Smith, '35; Segard, George P. Haskell, '37; Bastien, Ar- thur J. Firth, Jr., '38; Madame Cor- dier, S. Ralph Coh<:>n, '37; Therese. .John B. Dowling. Jr., '37; a young workman, Richard Diamond, '35; a sailor, Paul Wassmansdorf, '34; workmen and sailors, Charles Reeves, '37, Harold Freidman, '37, William C. Bennett, '34, Robert Smith, '37, and William Miesse, '37. According to Director Edward L. Carroll, the new switchboard being constructed by the lighting depart- ment under the direction of Robert Brown, '35, and John White, '35, will be ready for the performance on Friday. The setting, which will be in conventional style has been augmented by a backdrop designed and painted by Sidney D. Mark- man, '34. ----0•---- Hany Rositzke, '31, Awarded Dexter Traveling· Scholarship Hany A. Rositzke, '31, former editor of The Idol and major in the department of English while at Union, who has been etudying at Hat vard in preparation for his doctorate has been· awarded the Char-les Dexter scholarship for next year. This· scholarship will pay his expenses to study in England next year. The terms of the echolarehip are that it f\hould \encom age young men to study profoundly the Englieh language and to enable them to visit Oxford and Cam- bridge or the cathedral towns in England-.'' The address of Dr. Langmuit will be supplemented by motion pic- ttnes, and discus,;ion groul\· Dr Edward Ellety, who \'l;a~ head of the ehemi:;tiy departmc·nt fot mull· than twenty-five yea~>< b!'fot e be- coming the executive h<·ad uf th<' tullegt•, will gtcd th•· vi,itot >' and speak bt idly. H!\ssions in Butt<'l'lit•!d Lab The ses~iuno will talll' jJlaet' in tltc• Butterfield Cht•mkal Iahoratory Dt. :\'pwt•tl T. C:onlon. of thP Cien· eta! Elt•ddc Re,eat<\h J.abcJtatory anti pt e;iul'n t of th<' E. N. Y. S. of the A. C. ::>., \\ill up<\n tlw mut nin;.: scs~ion at 10.15 o'C'l<wk After· n buffet lundi<'Oll is \et ved in tht• bbut atm y, the ~Pmina r gi oup will meet at 1:30 for an hour':o discu' oiun of mutual ptoblPm:'. The dPII' :.;att·s will tlwn bt· the gu<:>,.;t\ of th•· a thlel!l' depU! tm,•nt at tlw \'at :<ity baM•ball, ttack ut lactussc conte:-;t., to be played against Clark>'on. Rocllebter. anJ C. C. N. Y. 1 ''\!''''' lively. Topic~ which will bP dtscussed at thl' aftct·noon seminar in<'lude How much of modern tht•uiy should and can be incurpmated mto a high sehoul com·se in c ltl•miotl y '.' ThP place and impoi tan<'e of mo- tion pictures in high school and col- lege ~QlJI'>'PS in chPmi:;try. The use of models in high sehoul and col- lege chemi:;try instruction. The committee in charge of ar- rangements for the meeting con- sists of Dr. Charles B. Huz·d, chair- man, Dr. Egbert K. Bacon, Dr. Thomas A. Wibon, Dr. Ft edPI\ick C Schmidt, and William Fiedlet·. o-- Dr. E. E. Cummins Given Grant for Resea1·ch Study The Social Science Research Council has awarded Dr. Earl E. Cummins a grant-in-aid for another year so that he may continue his study of craft unionism. Dr. Cum- mins is one of the 46 scholar:; in the United States who will receive a share of the more than $22,000 awarded \to assist mature scholars to complete research projects al- ready well under way\. Dr. Cummins used his grant dur- ing the current year principally for gathering material for his study. Next year he plans to use the funds mainly for writing. In his book Dr. Cummins will give a great deal of attention to the conflict between craft <horizon- tal) unionism and industrial (ver- tical) unionism that has arisen as a result of the attempt to introduce collective bargaining under the N. R.A. In addition to being professor of economics, Dr. Cummins is also chairman of the Social Studies Di- vision. He has written much on the labor problem in the United States and is considered one of the major authorities in this fiield. Junim· ('lu ... s X omln•·~'s Thust· nutuinatetl ftum tlw d:t,:- Fletcher·~ ambition~ 1 un to thr writing and arran;.;ing of all type~ of music. His brain is filled with melodies begging. fat' expres8ion His \Harlem Madness\ which hP J'ecot dt·d for Victor is definite evi- dence of his originality and capa- bility in WI iting. \\'lwn :\h. lhndf't.<on io' not tno bu.<y addm;;- to hi~ fum<> hP play~ :t liti!P footh.1ll or hridgP an<! PVery once in a whil<' :t littit- 'l'\t .,f hi! lia td~. of 193:, ate: \\'illbm El1m·kwenl. \- J1fil·tcnt fullll ,·~ch timt•, for tht• ,;l!utlc,; llain, Lt\un 11 ,! Ebt·nbud. la~t f1ve ).Pab. 'tit.' Uoed tu illll•lu\e Hugh Elwjll, Cl• mt·n,; Hath:.w:Jy, tlw teachmg of the course,;, 1 abe I :\:tn man He\~• \\'illiam J Pnkin:<. th•· 'tudPnts intet·e,t in and p1 ofit Jam•·' Lr)Olll~\· Haymond :\lcDowdl, n \ Duncan :\lc:\:ab, John Mofft\tt. Dun- 9 ftom th<\ cout~e'. and to d<'VPlnp a:d )!tJulton, J 3 nH·' Tiutund:o, f!alph H 0 0 k e s Law Is I hatmuny Ldween tile ;;tudcnb; :.tnt! I' ::;l'lllc'l.atl. ::.bu,; !\t<·:tl'll '· an· I Thcq·- inot rtwtor~. ThPy abo <II aw opin- ton \\ lupplt•, Confirmed by Saver ion' ft ,m th<' >tUdPnt:< poncf'rning St~phunwi ts who W<'! ,. n•:•ninatNl 1 . 1 at t. Butl.tJII Dt:Lat.:k, t.uy < ,,J\w\ld. • I tht' tt xt h .. oJ:, \hPd lTI \ht' '.'<llll, \· ll'ha!lt•\ Kl ull, ]toSt'jlh :\lil:tnu. n .. h- Tiw form,; consist of twenty-on<· o•J t !\t\!iol1 Albert Steven,;on, Yu.n ::\'pw York Demon:-.tnttion of I qttt-,t;un,, each uf which I-\ to be• \'•·,·htc·n T1 umbull. :J·tld \\an Ant· Pl·eci·s 10 · n II[' •[ • · .. 1 .,m.trlH•<i .tt·cmdinf!: to thtt•' gtad\~·l\\l'IP \\\a!d 1 on. Tlw ft•·,.hnH'n \lh\ - e IC<l !:-ipllngs s,The~t l!llt',..tiutlcl have to du With \\'t:ll' ll<olUnatL·d a•··· E::ll>'>t l~to\1!1. Outconw of ~ayrr's \Vorl\ I''\\\ [>IL'jl!.t.Iation, a\~ihnment>. :>tU-1 Kenn.tth et own, Jamr~ Dnyl.'> Huh- dent tn\t'J e,t, tht! ~y.-tt•m uf gt:HI- <'It 1-:\'c·J t\t. anol Donald J.:!t:ton. · --- --- in~. r~eling between the in,tt uctor Be.,id'\' tho: e who a1 ~ cat 1 iP<l ThP developmPnt of a spring and ,..tudent,;, the teachet'\ st'nst• over·, :\le:\:ab, Senwtad, Cit iswuld. scale ;;o accurate that tt will indi- of propottion anti the per>unal ap- l>uy!P. und Liifttnn ate rw mlwt,· nf cate the dtffNPnCP in the earth,; peatancc of the professor. th .. tt\titing Student Council. pull 1 gravity l on t !•n pound:> be- Although the forms ha VL' not A<.:l'urJing to the con:<titutiron of tw<'en New Ym k anJ Quebt•c Will: been offipially counted yet. a cur- the St ut!Pnt Council, nominal ion' be demonstmted thi~ afternoon at sory glance through them reveal<:>d fur Pach board are mat!P by tlw re- Juhn Chatillon and Sons, New 'h:lt mo~t of th<' answei~ were com titing bo~ud and arP nut di~t'lwPd Ym·k, where outstanding m•·chani- plimPntary to thP cnnrces as thry until the time of ele<·tion8. cal engineers will gather to view a! p now taught. Tlw nPW council will be the the result of thP fi1•e year rPsearch One ~tudent remarlted: \When I fum th group of student eounl'il- into the de\;ign and behavior of pre- decided to take t hi,; rour~e my in- men to be elected since the ad•lp- ci:;ion helical springs. !'r·ofesso1 terest in political science was at a 1 tiun of the Student Council ns tht• l\olortimrr It,. Sayre, A. V. de Forest I low ebL; nuw I con,.;idf'r tht• comse 1 gu\·erning organ of the stlldPnt and Robert B. \Vasoon who con- one of the best I have taken or I body oVL't two years ago. )lc>rnh<•t' ductcd this research will be present will ever take.\ , se1 ve for a tPtl11 of one yPar. to diecuss the theoty underlying ~~~eat~~~ :;pring,; at today·s demon- Civil War Fever Divided Union Into Professor Sayre together with the othet· engineers mentioned worked during the past five years Two Factions,· Drill Squa·d Ornanized on finding the errors in the old ::1 springs and on designing the new springs which are made of chrome nickel steel and a small amount of other alloys and of special shapes. This called for a special study of the geometrical changes in the di- mensions of the old type spring un- der load. Of special interest to science and industry are the findings in rela- tion to Hooke's Law first published in 1678: \the power of any spring is in the same proportion with the tension thereof.\ Modern measur- ing in:;truments have revealed that Hooke's Law is subject to devia- tions. The research by Professor Sayre and others has gone much farther than disproving Hooke. It has succeeded in devising a helical spring that, within close limits con- form,; to Hooke's law. This new type of spring is made from this newly manufactured metal which is unaffected by wide changes in tem- perature. The three engineers will deal with the interesting findings as to temperature changes in metals, hysteresici (internal friction of me- tals by outside magnetic forces) and creep (after effect on metals after external force has been ap- plied and removed). B~· WALTI!;R L. HORSTMA~ Dm in~ the latter part of Dr. ::-<ott's p1 e>'idenry the affair:< of the nation Wf'r<' approaching a cl'isi~ and echoe>< of the gathering ~torm of the civil war were heard within the college. For many yl'ars the South had sent mote Htud<:>nt~ to Union than any other Northern in- stitution, flnd the number seemed to increase as the inevitable ~ePtional conflict drew neat ~o thflt before the struggle nea rl}\ every ~outhPrn state was represented among the undergraduares. Many of thPse stu- dents were the sons of the rich planteis. It is not strange, there- fore, that they clashed with their North<:>rn broth~rs. and that fre- quent arguments were followed by blows. \Vhen nt last. the South withdrew ftom the l\nion these st utlo:>nts left college to talte U]) arms for their states, and at the ~arne timP, many of their comrades from thP Nm th enlisted to prcsnvc> the \l\nion. Within a few yean; the college was but a shadow of it>' former sPlf. The story had often been told of the company composed, for the most part, of students and called the Union Coll!\ge Zouave~. The body was dtilled from mmning to night in every availablc lot on the cnmpu,.;, and on the pn~turPs in the l'mburbs of the city by Elia~ Pd:<s- ner, Profpssor of German and eco- nomic:;. Th<' Zoua\'P\ cnni<'d a flag. m:1de by :\-Ir,;. Peb>'nPr. which \\'as Ol'e of th·' colk~<>'s mn>'l valued posses:<ions. All the mPmber~ of the company t•nli8ted for sPrVi<'P in the war many rising to positions of rank both in the army and nnvy. Their leader and in..;tructor. Colonel Peissner, who had hrrd militm y PX- perience in EmopP. rapidly a<l· vanc~d to a colonelcy, but fC'll in the batlle of Chancellorsvillr. Later a Grand Army PoA in Rochc~tcr was named after him. Since the war ft'W student~ from the South have been Hen on ou1 c.,mpus. South!'rn institution' haw grown up and it takes srveral J::C'n- eratinn.< to enol animo><ity such a~ tlmt which existed between North and South during the trying times from 1861 to 18G5. It is hoped that as time goes on more studPnts from the South will come back to make Union as cosmopolitan as she once was. Thirtet·n Scholarships The scholarships which will be awarded are: two Fuller Medical s.cholnrships of $!flO each: the Wil- ham L. Oswald Scholarship of $250· the. :;aniel F .. Pullman Scholarship of ~1-0; the \\tll!am C. Saxton Scho- lanhip of $150; the Horace B. Silli- man Scholar;;hip of $300; the Frank B. and John\on Ide Snell Scholar- ~hip,; of $100 each; the Gilbert M. SpiPr Memot ial Scholarship of $90; the Chestet· C. Thorne Scholarship of $200; the Cornelia Veeder Scho- larship of $200; and two Samuel ShHwuod Wakeman Scholarships of $300 each. These awdtds uspd to be made at commencement, hut in 1932 the faculty voted to e'tablish a Prize Day for their presentation. This w;\. donP both becau:'e of the lack of tn!te at thP graduation exercises :md morder to give >IJe~tal ~ignif­ lC':JllC'Q to the chat·acter of the a~\a.rds. --·--0---- Student Body Votes to 1\dopt Repo1·t of Council Student Body Meetings will be held on the first five Mondays of thP collt•ge year and monthly there- aft.,r, a~conling to the decision made thts morning in assembly, when the student body voted to ac- cept the report of the council com- nnttel!. 1t :--·as also decided to close the meetmgs with the ,;inging of the ,~lm?- l.\Iatcr and to open them by smgmg some other college song. At each meeting sport captains will re- port the athletic results.

Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 8, 1934 the two weeks more profitable. The first is •1 ··II to do away with any sort of a review period· F A R R A G 0 · and continue classes for the fortnight. Sec--!.!-;=========:;;;;;;;;;;===========-= ondly, it could be made strictly review period . The lads from Hamnton CN. Y.J but that in the spirit of the thing MUStC by Rankine Hinman \A Oat~sa Persa Parole Assai\ FouNDED 1877 ~ssocitt!td\' OJ~~~-9,iatt !Jr~ss -.;.., 19 31 <NAnci~~K~Eli]ID' 1934 =- \\\\\\\ The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Publislted Tuesdays and Frid~ys ~htoughout the college year, except durmg C:hu::H.lllatl and spring recesses. ·sort of mussed things up a bit; our it would be !best to let Ge()rge!s by having the instructors give a series of re- fine clean record got kicked mark ride through. Weeping and around. But it's still a good rec- wailing and gnashing of teeth! The more disciplined and mature view lectures covering the work of the entire ord. And the Iacrosse-ites turned in * $ * voices of the Schu!Jert Club and · t h 1 th · ded '£roy Vocal Society and the youth- yea .. 1'n the f1'eld. Thl'.-..d!}y, the time could be. a Wln ° e P soo e our woun From the strenuous pen of L L vanity. , Freshman Helm·, it struck my ·ful enthusiasm and spontaneity of the Glee Club together made the devoted to the study of examinations given . * * • fancy, so here it is: concert given by those choruses The ten_ms team wandered o_ ff_ the' Morning~Monday morning~the · h · h 0 'f f th ll1 d th w 11 Friday night a musical event of un- m t e past m eac course. ' r, l none 0 e range 'r 1 ay-over .on · e 1 Jams twirds bittering, the sun gagging usual appeal, as was evidenced by preserves-and got smacked around a nauseous yellow streak across the Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 above suggestions could he adopted, why not fol' its impudence: Uncus (No. 2 rug, the water-thin coffee like di- the large and responsive audience man) Keats, handicapped by Cap- luted arsenic the oatmeal like which filled Memorial Chapel. ··.make it a two-week reading period; that is tain (No. 1 man) Chrysler, moistened .pla~ter, all the ills that The grander fullness of tone pos• 1 d t th 1 f sible for such a large group was the interpretation which many instructors s amme ou e on Y score or us flesh is heir to localized in my un- apparent throughout the program, Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Clasn Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. foreigners. dernourished protoplasm, the legs but above all in the opening reli- Q'l·ve to .a I'eview period. c Chr>~~ • 1\' j t •t as heavy as telegraph poles, the gious numbers. The sweeping, noble ~ · asanova . ys er us can tongue as big as1 a balloon, the ditch the women; he goes, they fol- .stomach full of cement-and the phrases of Bach's \Now Let Every Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. The way that the current -ru:>riod is being. low, even if they have to comman- b\l\ d 1 t\ t Tongue Adore Thee\ were produced J!~ deer his Blue Weasel for the chase. · 1 wus green grass un u a mg ou - with the exalted, organ-like rna- handled is far from satisfactory. At least Moffett gave birth to the \Din- ~~dtot~: ~n~~wh:::e~e~~~fy,t~~~ jesty inherent in the music, an ef- ner at the Wl .ll!·arns Inn\ idea feet which smaller choruses can- Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady N. Y. All other communicatiooo to Clemens\ F. Hathaway, Chi Psi Lodge, Union b · · · ·hate to be there. Morning-Monday three of the above suggestions are. emg ern- What an idea! What an Inn! And morning, oh-h-h-h! not so completely acquire. 1 d t t • M . t to what a dinner!! A slab of cold pork Exit Helm. Chorus Under Superb Control p oye a one· rme. any ms rue -rs are re- d r f d 11 d an an o 1ve or a o ar an a • • * \Lo How a Rose E'er Blooming,\ q uiring attendance for the fortnight, while half. They called it capon, but they Monday: The wind blows heavy ever exquisite with a warm, sim- couldn'.t fool Chrysler; he knew ple, yet incomparably mellow C~~ege, Schenectad_Y~·:._ _________ _ SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in..Chief Arthur J. Katzbe1·g .. , .. , ..... Business Manager Donald B. Moulton ........••. Managing Editor Joseph A. Woolman .....•....•... News Ed~tor Milton A. Berger ........•.... , .. Sports Editor Thornton w. Whipple .... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. Anderson R. North A. Stevenson v. G4lbert V. Trumbull Issue Editors: V. Gilbert, V. Trumbull Reporters Contributing to This Issue M. Bedell R. Cohen w. Ferguson F. Feldman W. Horstman R. Passenger C. Nessen TUESDAY, MAY 8, 1934: STUDENT CRITICISM HERE AND ELSEWHERE The New York Herald-Tribune carried a sto1·y recently which described the repri- manding which a college president gav.e to his students for openly criticizing- the poli- cies of the administration and faculty. Such, we believe, is a narrow minded point of view in twentieth century higher education. One of the many successful policies of the Union College administration for the past year has been the welcoming of student criticism. The college has not suffered in the least by virtue of that policy. The gen- eral moral tone of the student body and fac- f 1 h 'f U • dam ell th t om from up the vale. There is so lit- many others are not. We ee, t at 1 n10n n w a a capon was s e beauty of its own, seemed even kind of a fish. And service! The tle time before the end, and so .lo~relier WI'th the added richness of h ' ' d 't h ld be b 1 ld t ·t much that can never be done. • must ave a reVl·eW perw 1 s ou ·. Ql - ,on Y way you cou ge a wm ress tone of the combined clubs. We S t ttl · th t bl Papers galore! Clamoring profs! wa o ra e a c01n on e a e·; have on numerous occasions been served as such and without compulsory at..- she'd think it was a tip, and a!- Exam-shadows blight the sky. A amazed by the almost inaudible most break th do dow tt ·n persistent wondering as to the e or · n ge 1 g yet full toned p!\anissimo• which Dr. tendance th worth-while-ness of all we have ~ • ere. * \ \ strained over these ;four years. I Tidmarsh can draw from a large d A treat from palsy-walsy am told my blood should run 'high chorus. Friday this ·fine control If it is impossible for a review perio to be. Schopenhauer: \From whence at completing this \lap in the race which he exerts over his singers did Dante talte the materials of life,\ but I'm just sleepy and was again noticeable, especially in conducted successfully, why not turn the two of his hell but from our ac- unenthused. No second wind s-tirs old hymn by Praetorius, In the soft tual world? And yet he made my legs to firmer strides. I relapse yet firm encore of \Ye Watchers weeks over to a reading period, With the re- a very proper hell out of it. to a sort of vegetable existence, and Ye Holy Ones,\ and, above all, But when, on the other hand, and feel, I presume, very much like in the \Goin' Home\ arrangement suiting confusion which the present period he came to describe heaven Henry Adams when he arrived in of the Largo from D'vorak's \New and its delights, he had an in- roaring New York, from the .South World\ symphony. is bring-ing about, we believe that it would be surmountable difficulty before seas. \Adams W(}Uld rather have One of the most eloquent num- him, for our world affords no gone back to the east, if it were .bers on the program, \Goin' Home\ materials at all for this-.\ only to sleep forever in the trade- was sung with a clear appreciation * * * winds under the southern stars, for the frequent niceties of shading far more beneficial to each student if a bit Cory wrote an exam for Bron- wandering over the dark purple and rhythmic effect which charac- ner and affixed his own mark (C-) ocean, with its purple sense of soli- terize it. An organ accompaniment to it. Bronner read the exam and tude and void. Not that he liked the added much to the effectiveness of left Cory's mark on it; he told sensation, but that it was the most this and several other numbers, al- than a general chaos out of which most stu- George later it was worth a C plu::;, unearthly he had felt.\ though we were disappointed with Mr. Stewart's choice of stops In the I d · l'ttl dd't' 1 k 1 d introduction, The strange, almost of uniformity were observed by the entire faculty. The present order is nothing more dents wil er1ve 1 e a 1 10na now e ge.ll II Middlesex Notes weird tone which he produced was In the Mal •• interesting but hardly in sympathy The Reverend Freliclt certainly. with the number. l..l;;;;============:;;:ll spoke a truism in chapel last Thurs- If the rendition of the vocal ar- day when he said that \the .Ameri- rangement of Elgar's \Pomp and can people have been preyed upon Circumstance\ was a ·bit noisy and, for a long time,\ for quite a in one or two parts, inaccurate, A WORTHY TRADITION The Terrace Council is trying to make the 1934 Spring Night the best that Union has ever witnessed. There a1·e a few old tradi- tions of the college which are worthwhile and we rank the annual class and fraternity songfest among them. For the past two yeai'S Spring Night has been ill-attended be- cause of the lackadaisical attitude of the fraternities in regard to the event. The Terrace Council has seen fit to add Libra1·y Fines Editor, The Concordiensis: few people thought he uttered Rachmaninoff's rushing \Floods of I am attaching hereto a state- \prayed.\ Spring\ and the \Creation Hymn\ ment on \Library fines\ written by \' • • based upon his well known C sharp one of the librarians a;t the Loan It is rumored that The Concor- minor Prelude were rendered with Desk, which I would be glad to diensis will reveal all our supposed- a brilliance which displayed the have printed \In the Mail.\ While ly conceR!ed columnists in the next huge chorus at its best. The pre~ the majority of boys co-operate in issue. In the meantime bullet-:Proof c~sion and magnificent grandeur of observing our rules, there are a vests are selling at a premium. the performance of the \Creation few who do not. Perhaps a state- * * * Hymn\ formed a fitting climax: for ment from one on the other side of Some day people will wake up a splendid concert. the Loan Desk will show that In and find that the \Reading Pe- The program which Herbert this, as in all other questions, there riod\ is a horse of a different color. Hausser will offer Monday evening are two points of view. \Time for lunch\ or ••our hearts in the Trinity Methodist Church Yours cordially, beat time\ would be just as apt will include compositions by Tchai- JAMES BREWSTER, a title for these otherwise normal kovsky, Oley Speaks, Deems Tay Librarian. two weeks. Or it might be called a lor, Cyril Scott, Debussy, and Bon- \reeding\ period when one could net. Ruth Flickenger, the assisting Certain privileges have been prance about fluting on a pipe---a artist, will present a grou:l} of pi granted and certain courtesies ex- gay Pan, a frying Pan in this ano numbers and another of organ tended at the Loan Desk in the li- weather. compositions. This will be Haus brary to students who want to take • ,.. ,.. ser's final appearance here before books out longer than the usual Little Nellie from eastern New he leaves to study in the Divinity two weeks. Books may be renewed York, School and School of Music at Yale. as often as necessary as long as no Came to town with a man named one else aslts for them. Students O'Rourke. are even accorded the convenience This maid when betrayed, OH I HEARD of renewing over the telephone. Her seducer s-he flayed, However, it is expected that the Smoked, quartered, and sold him Our own little spy at Troy has books be returned on or before the for pork, been busier than an ant at a pic ulty has increased in no small measure be- cause the administration has seen fit to allow the regulation that the winning fraternity students to voice their criticisms and feel cannot sing the same song two years in a that they are participating in the function- row. That alone should furnish enough in- ing of the college. It is no more than right that educators should recognize the fact that with changing trends in society it is natural that educa- tional policies must change to meet present day demands of youth. The college adminis- tration always has the reserve power to have centive for those f1·aternities which have not entered competition in recent year.s because they felt that they did not 'have a chance' for the simple reason that th.e Kaps would sing 'Our Hem\ts are Thine K. A.' In order to assure a good deal of cornpeti- the final voice in all matters. tion we suggest that the Terrace Council It is natural that neither faculty nor ad~ have entry blanks printed or mimeographed ministration is able to see the students' point and that each fraternity be requested to of view and for that reason the invitation of hand its entry blank with the songs it wishes undergraduate criticism has its invaluable merit. As long as Union administrations welcome student criticism they will he in step with the demands of higher education. NEED FOIR CO-ORDINATION We have argued before that a review pe- riod is worthless in its present form at Union College. If every department were to sing in to some Terrace Councilman sev- eral days prior to May 21, which is the date for Spring Night. There are seven Terrace Councilmen. If ·each were to contact three or four frater- nities, we believe that more interest would be shown in the contest. Competent judges have been chosen who know their music and will be able to detect the best singing. That only one fraternity can win is true; compelled to observe the two-week interim but, since the morale of the whole student between classes and nnal examination in similar manner, there would be far more value to each undergraduate in a period of its kind. body has followed an upward trend this year, we feel that it will be hut a simple matter for students to spend a few short hours There are several alternatives toward under the Nott Elm one evening while at- which the faculty can turn in order to make tending a function of the college. date due, otherwise the usual fine • * * nic. He tells us that the R. P. I. of five cents a day will be incurred. One second tenor picked up his boys decorated their prom as Indefinite renewal is prohibited. music in Sunday chapel wlth a per- Dante's \Inferno.\ So-o-o-o! How I.t happens sometimes that a long ceptible start. Written across the would you like to go to hell with term borrower will \slip up\ on the to:P in rounded letters was .J. S. me next weekend, Mabel? And what exact date of renewal, and if the Wallington 1st Bass. It's a Pit of about this Grand Marshal business student has always been willing to a faL' cry from the c\loir micro- at the Troy armory? We· never pay his fines promptly and cheer- phones to Sun¢1ays spent playing guessed that engineers were such fully, the librarian-in-charge has \straight\ for Eddie Cantor. cutups. been known to \wink at\ the over- * * * • • • due, waive the fine, and renew the The Hale Club went ·back to na- Dr. Tidmarsh, who has trouble book. This is distinctly a courtesy ture Sunday. It turned out that the with his pipes, brings us a choice n'OW and then accorded to students Philllsop~y and li)~Q:ttom.i.gs <Je;part- morsel. Las·t year at Prom time his who have always respected the li- ments play a tricky game of base- water at home was still shut off, brary rules; it is not a right to be ball, while one member of the var- and he filled two jugs at the cilapel, expected by any student. sity squad trickled ·an easy one as usual, and put them in his car. Likewise, an occasional leniency through his fingers. The sun shone Fine, but someone (doubtless a shown to a student who returns an brightly and the faces of these town boy) mistook it for gin. Now 8:15 book late is a favot• to the boy hardened intellectuals shone als<;>h. we're wondering; what did it do to who does not overstep his pr!vi- Sunday evening they glowed wit them? leges. a light ne'er seen in class or dur- • • • Some upperclassmen who have ing reading period. We have it that the English De had special consideration at the Ideas are r:lu:ta~t to percolate partment's Mr. Smith regards al Desk, but who have begun of late t th t of Hollywood with a lusty hate to take that consideration for in . his warm wea er, so his col- gr anted and in consequence have umn is the joint effort of three And while he was reading his ;paper lackadal .si'cal young men p w ex on the .topic to one of his brighter? been charged fines, have resented · • · - · hi · t pired and went out to dinner after classes, somebody, probably Papa that charge. T ·s is decidedly he paragraph three. F. H. then limer- Laemmle, sent a steam roller to wrong attitude. We have no fav- . k d _,, h d t 1 . .J B drown him out. Btlrny, burny· , Papa orltes. Every worthy student gets a lC e anu! a ' 0 go, eavmg · · Laemmle. \break\ now and then when the D. to end the things in time for • • • favor inconveniences no one. But to deadline in the cool of the be-oo-ti- expect special privilege and to re- ful evening. We wander here and tnere quite . a bit, of a spring evening, and last sent having to pay a debt is un- week who s-hould we ruli into but gracious and takes a student at othe1·. The money involved has Little :Joe, who used to be famous out of the running for any further nothing do with our policy (}f ex- because he put cheese in his eheese consideration. pecting the studen't to pay his debt. sandwiches. Things are brighter We do not want to deprive the. We take this opportunity to con- now, what with ;the shades up and students of the privileges they have gratulate the students at large on a sign which reads \.Joe's\ and been accustomed to when they co- the good sense they show in com- points in the general direction of operate wiih the library staff. To plying with the rules of the library. the Locomotive works. Come down be sure, from our standpoint, it The majority of boys take a real and e·at an olive with me tonight? would be easier to be severe, for responsibility in returning, books on • * • then we would not have to use our time, and our &:15 books come in All Is not as it should be along judgment. But were all clemency with utmost re~larity. When a fine 'Nott Terrace during these wal'm dispensed with a real hardship has to be charged, most of the fel~ evenings. Not by a long shot. That would fail, for instan<Je, on the stu- lows pay up graciously and without green Ford roadster that parks at dent who has had a term paper to argument. the Be.ta house rolls up and d1>wn, write. Under the glass at the Loan Desk to and fro, like the wise old owl Our rules are for convenience, is a quotation from a library pe- hunting in the hush of evening and to facilitate the turnover of our riodical which is worth repeating: and we, sitting back in our Wheel stock-which is books. To give the \Fines as a revenue are not near- chair; wonder. use of these books to the greatest ly so important as teaching the stu- • • \' numlber of borrowers who need dents those things for whi()h they We want a. clean towel about them is our aim. We charge fines will be grateful sometime-later; one now, so we feel bound to ta.ke it as a penalty for forgetting to re- of the tllings is honesty, for say all baclc. Fred Parks will not be turn a book or for deliberately what you wlll; to evade a book fine Henry the Eighth, monop<>llzing a book l).eeded by an- or any' other debt is dishonest.\ INOHWELL. I I I I. Gm ..,. £ Wi Unio Ham at Cl in e' whic ilton. Na ion i he tc to be half disct for l Ale man place hurd with jUIDl ing J and UII even high thro' 10( ion; witz, 22( Saie' ilton 44( Aver Unio H! Unic Gre~ Mi Unic ond; 2:10. Tv Unic Tho1 06. 121 Tun ond; 15:8. 22' ner, Swa 0:25 Hi and 8 i Unie Hail inch B1 Uni1 out, iltOI PI and feet J! Uni· Uni [ T Del Pi pa Del fau: 5-3; tal c (de Phi pa Del 18-~ 18-:l Del 1! (de ove Up1 fau Sig ( (de pa De· (de (de Ch lb'e! De 21- ove Ph Ch deJ 21- lell t01 no ev' er ti1 N1 :w1 of po pll

of ses by ery ced ef- low ven of We ible Dr. in soft all, me\ of al- the was thy ar- and and, of the pre- of urch Tay- pi- rgan has pic- F. I. as How with iness such boice his off, car. ss a Now to De- all hate. paper hter? Papa to Papa quite but and and of down ght? along That at down, owl about it be THE 'CONCORDIENSIS, 'fUESDAY; ·M:AY ·S; ~~B{ Three -Trackmen Take 'Measure Of Interfraternity Tracl\: Stl ·c·km·en Demol·sh M E dN. , Loomis, who shut out Stevens •rech . . . ' .. I . . . aroons. n Ine .S fcir the Garnet, had allowed but M I T T 15 'l V'\ t St k 8 2 .. four hits up u:p.Ul that time and B -· ff dB. 1 b L s .100 yd. dash ....... Monday, May 14 u ' ail ue y arge core ~~g=~~: ~o~\~r.dl~s~~~~::: ~:~ i~ •. o . • · ~ · earn, ·. r-.1.1. IC ory rea , - had' wa:lked four, his total number of walks for the game. Wright; the SJ;ot Put .......... Tuesday, May 15 Discus ......... Wednesday, May 16 Ga1·net Nine Wins Every· Revamped N• t· ·Pole vault ...... wednesday May 16 E - t B t 0 N · · · · · llle · 0. J<~;veliJ?-· .......... Thursday: May 17 . : ven u . ne; . ·agus- M. t St St h High JUmp ....... 'l'hursday, May 17 Union's Running, Passing .Are Greatly Impl'Oved;Six Goals Scored in Initial Qua1·ter zewskiSets ShotRecm·d . ee . . ep ens. Broad jump ...... Thursday, May 17. Members of the varsity track· team are not eligible. Events begin Upsetting the forecasters, Union's Winning every event but one, Only Four Regulars SUI'e of promptly at 4:30 P. M. Entries stickmen overwhelmed the Massa- Union's track team overwhelmed , Th · p · mi.Jst be in by noon, Saturday, May chusetts Institute ef Technology la- eu os1tions; Hatfield Is 12. One man may enter oQly 3 t s Haniilton 102 1-3 to 23 2--3 Saturday D' . events. A cup will be awarded the crosse eam aturday afternoon, 15 at Clinton. Union men scored firsts.' , Issatisfied With Hitting; team winner. to 2, on Library Field. Sta.rting n every event but the 220-yd. dash --- ---o 1 -~- with a determined assault on ,the which was taken .by Dube of Ham- • WrLLIA.t'\1 B. FERGUSON p } N t Tech goal in the first period, the !ton. Few people will recognize the · · U f p e ... e ffi e 0. Garnetmen obtained five markers, Naguszewsk.i broke his own Ull- Union varsity baseba!I nine when Defeat u· lliGOn 8 t· which were enough to win the it trots out on the field for the st. · · · · ' · · ' • game. ion record! for the shot put, when ·st The praise which Coach Poole o·f he t ·ossed the. shot 41 feet, 9 1'nch.es., e:phens game tomorrow at 4:30 on H arvard had extended to the M. I. to better his previous mark by one- Alexander Field. As a result of the Bob Kellehe1·, High Ran)iing T. team for its splendid work half an inch. 'Nag' also took the failure of the team to hit well Collegiate Star, Leads In against his stick wielders was com- discus throw, bringing in 10 poin,ts Coach EJlliott Hatfield will use as Sweep of All but One Mat.ch r;~!~ye~p~~ ~~~~:f~~~~:re ~~~?~~ for Union. many substitutes as possible in an h t h d w o wa c e Union's speedy play- Alec Turner was the outstanding attempt to bring back some of the' ers break through their opponents man on the Garnet team, with first hard hitting that the team showed Led by Bob Kelleher, the Wil- ragged offense almost at will~ The places in both the low and high at the early part of the season. Iiams tennis team had an easy time individual playing of Captain hurdles, and a tie for first place Not only has the hitting .been taking Union into camp, 8 to 1, in CI~:auncey Foote and Bob OpiJen- with Emory Burton in the high bad, but in the Colgate game the' a contest played at the home of the hetm kept the M. I. T. goal in con- jump. Burton also tied with Griff- fielding went poorly and the de- Massachusetts team on Friday. Wil- stant danger • ing for first .place in the pole vault,· fense was full of holes, allowing Iiams has a strong team composed Starting with the opening whistle, and won the broad jump. the big Maroon team to make sev- entirely of sophomores and juniors the home team passed and dodged Union made clean sweeps in four eral runs they didn't deserve. Cad- wi.th the. single exception of Cap~ passed the 'J;'echtnen with a sure- events, the half mile run, 12Q...yd. · wallader at third has been slow in: tam Davts, who Is a senior. ness and unbeatable determination high hurdles, mile run, and javelin the field and has yet to make his Kelleher is one of the outstanding that resulted in six goals before throw. The summaries: first dean hit. Dain, although he racquet-wielders of the east. He re- th:'l initial quarter had ended~ Cap- 10Q...yd. dash-Won by Krull, Un- has done well in the field, has had cently defeated Dave Flaccus, star tam ]foote secured the first three but two or three hits and needs of Haverford, when Williams and goal.s, adding at least one every pe- ion; Dube, Hamilton, second; Saie- H f d riod t b .. h' t pepping up. Lefty Clark, regular aver or ·met. Flaccus was runner . o . rlng IS otal to eight. witz, Union, third. Time, 0:10. f' k up 1'n the E t I t 11 · t Oppy made h1's po1'nters 1'n the first 1rst sac er, will be unable to play as ern n erco egm e 220-yd. dash-Won by Dube, Ham-· because of a wrenched knee which championships in 1933. and thir!l quarters, The Engineers Saiewitz, Union, third. Time, 0:22. ke t h' t f th c 1 were able to break throuah .the P 1 mou o e o gate game. Kelleher vs. Chrysler u · \\ iJton; LeFevre, Hamilton, second; It is hoped lhat he will be in shape · rnon defense put twice. Halven- 440-yd. run-Won by Ross, Union; 'for Saturday's encounter with In defeating Captain Harry sqn executed a goal through Ed Avery, Hamilton, second; Moulton, Clarkson Tech, Chrysler- on Friday, Kelleher had Barna in the third period and M:a- Union, .third. Time 0:53.6. Because of Clark's ability to things practically his own way dur- ~~~::f :~a~:. closing minutes of the Half ml 'ln·-·-Won by Brockwehl, play th · th d ing Lhe first set, but the Garnet ~ , ere lS ano er man nee ed captain tightened up for the re- . Uni_:m's running and passing, Union; Kizmierczak, Union, second; to round out a ball team. Bush who · · d combmed with their almost 1 ·nces- Gr egory, Union, third. Time 4:56.8. played his first game Saturda' y 1 ·n mam er of the match. One game W ent to deuce twel t' b f sant possession of the ball showed Mile run-Won by Gottschalk, right field, may play first or pos- ve Jmes e ore a vast improvement ov·e'r the·r 1 . sibly in the outfield. Reid, wha has the lanky Williams player was able 1 • Union; Kazmierczak, Umon, sec- b d . to take the game. Both players won P ay1ilg in previ01.1s games. They ond; Walthers, Union, third. Time, een omg well in practice, may be the admiration of the onlookers by kept the ball in enemy territory 2 : 10 , 9 • put in at the hot corner in place virtue of some of the·r d ·n h ts and werE! never .. in danger of a of Cadwallader. It is uncertain 1 ari g 5 0 come-bapl\: by M. I. T. · Two-mile run-Won by Mirate, where the coach will put Captain which seemed practically impossi- Union; Nestle, Union, second; G . b ble. 'Chick' Stroebel, who has been Thomas, Hamilton, third. Time, 11: thartrl~on, ut it is suJJe, however, playing the most consistent tennis 06 a ary will play in the outfield of the Garnet netmen this year, lost somewhere. The captain has shown a tough match to Swan, veteran of 120-yard high hurdles-Won by a 'big improvement over his last th 1 Lefty Wright Limits Gamet To Two Hits While Colgate Gets Twelve From Loom_is Ail. eight hit ·barrage in the last three im1ings .producing six I'Uns for Colga:te, cost the Union varsity nine their first defeat of the sea- soil Saturday afternoon .on Alexan- der Field by the score of 8 to 2. Wright, Colgate left-hander, limit- ·ed the Garnet to two hits while the Maroons secured twelve from Jim Loomis. The first six innings of the game produced air-tight ball. Union broke into the scoring column first, however, when Bush, playing his first game of the season for Union, wa:lked and, after having stolen second, came home on Captain' Garrison's clean single. Colgate came back in their ha:lf of the fourth and tied the score when Kult doubled to left field, Dempsey sacrlficed him to third, and O'Hara brought Kuk home on a single. Union again gained a run advan- tage in its half of the fourth when Loomis, first man up, walked, stole second, went to third on an error by Dempsey, and came home on an error by O'Hara, Maroon catcher. Colgate's Ninth Inning Colgate's big inning was the !l.tst,' when they pushed three runs over' the plate. Brooks started things off with a walk. McDonough dou- bled to left field scoring Brooks. Anderson slammed the ball past Bush, Garnet right fielder, for a triple scoring McDonough. Kuk then flied to Garrison whose throw home was too late to catch Ander- son. Dempsey and Fla·itz both popped to the infield for the last two outs. Union played good ball until the seventh inning when the defense cracked and Colgate hit the hall freely and gained runs on errors. Maroon hurler, appeared to be un- steady and walked six, although he struck out eleven. The summary: Union (2) AB R H POA E Fiore, 2b .... , . . . . 3 0 0 1 1 1 Garrison, If . .. . .. 4 0 1 1 0 0 Dain, ss . . . . . . . . . . 4 0 0 2 1 0 Semerad, cf . • .. .. 3 0 1 4: 1 0 Loomis, p . .. .. . .. 3 1 o 2 4 o Griswold, 1b . . .. .. 3 0 0 9 1 0 Stevenson, c . .. . .. 3 0 0 3 1 0 Cadwalla:der, 3b .. 3 0 0 1 1 3 Bush, rf . . • . . • . . • . 1 1 0 1 0 0 Totals .......... 27 2 2 27 10 4: Colgate (8) AB R H PO A E Bridge, 1b • . . . . . . . 3 2 1 7 0 1 Brooks, rf . . . . . . • . 3 1 1 2 0 0 McDonough, 2b . . . 3 2 2 1 0 0 Anderson, 3b, c . .. 5 1 2 7 2 0 Kult, If . . . . . . . . . . . 5 1 2 2 0 0 Dempsey, ss, 3b • . 4 0 0 1 1 1 Flaitz, cf . .. .. .. .. 5 1 2 2 0 0 O'Hara, c . .. .. . .. 2 ·0 1 3 0 1 Wright, p ........ 4 0 () 0 3 0 Larsen, ss . . . . . . . . 1 0 1 2 0 0 Totals .......... 35 8 12 27 6 3 Two-base hits-McDonough (2), Ktik. Three-base hit-Anderson. Double plays-Wright to McDon- ough to Bridge; Semerad to Gris- wold. Struck out-By Wright, 11, Loomis 2; Bases on balls-Off Wright 6, Loomis 4. Left on bases -Union 4, Colgate 7. Sacrifices- Dempsey, Bl'ooks, Larsen. Stolen bases: Fiore, Bush, Garrison, Loomis, Flaitz .(2), Brooks, Ander- son. Hit by pitcher--:Loomis (Mc- Donough). Winning pitcher - Wright. Losing pitcher-Loomis. Umpire--Connolly. Time of g~~ome -Two hours. ---0·--- 0UTING (JLUB NOTICE There will be an important meet- ing of the Outing Club Wednesday at 7:30 in Middle Section, South College. TIDTION FAYMEN'I.'S Final installment on tuition will be due in the Bursar's office, Tues- day, May 15. Turner, Union; Waldron, Union, sec- year's performance. He is now sec- e 933 season, by the scores of 5-7, ond·, Shields, Union, third. Time, · d t s d · b tt• 6-1, 6-3. In the only other match on o emera m a mg and has of the day that went to three sets, 15:8. a perfect record in the field. Al Warner and Austin Fox lost the 220-yd:. low hurdles-Won by Tur- There are but four positions tha:t third doubles, 5-7, 6-2, 6-2, after ner, Union; Milano, Union, second, are sure to be played by the regu- holding a 2-0 lead in the second set. Swartout, Hamilton, third. Time, lars as they have started the past 0:25.8. five games. Stevenson, who has UNION COLLEGE High jump-Tie between Burtou shown big improvement in his work and Turner, Union, for first (5 feet, .behind the plate, will be seen on 8 inches) ; ,tie among Griffing, the receiving end of the battery as Union, and Dunning and Robinson, usual. He has yet to collect his first Hamilton, for third (5 feet, 7 hit for the Garnet and it is hoped inches). that the hit so long overdue will be Broad jump-Won by Burton, forthcoming in this encounter. Union, (21 feet, 10 inc-hes); swart- Semerad, the heaviest hitter on the out, Hamilton, second; Jones, Ham- team, will be seen at his old post ilton, third. in the center field. Guy G-riswold, undefeated in his last two starts Pole vault-Tie between Burton against Middlebury and Rochester, and Griffing, Union, for first .(11 will be called on by Coach Hatfield feet) ; Latham, Hamilton, third. to do mound worlt. The other posi- Javelin throw-Won by Gallant, tion which is certain to be filled by Union (162 feet) ; Brzostowski, a regular is second base. Mike Fiore Union, second; Krull, Union, third. has done well around the keystone sack: and he will remain there for INTRAMURAL LEAGUES Wednesday's battle. St. Stephens comes here with a record of one defeat and no wins. They lost to Hamilton by the score c;~f 13 to 3. Hamilton obtained nine hits from Jastram, while Olenden- BASEBALL ing, Blue and Buff hurler, limited Theta Nu Epsilon beat Theta the Saints to three hits. Delta Chi, (default); Beta Theta They will have Molyneaux at Pi defeated Sigma Phi, 24-5; Kap- first, Mason at second, Captain pa Alpha won over Chi Psi, 15-9: Keppler at shod, Woodruff at Delta Upsilon beat Delta Chi, (de- third, Brady in left field Burgevin fault); Sigma Chi bea.t Kappa Nu, in center field, Snyder in right 5-3; Alpha Delta Phi defeated Del- 'field, and their battery will be ta Phi, 15-7. Dienst, catcher and Jastrom as Cni Psi de£ea:ted Theta Delta Chi, their starting pitcher. (default) ; Alpha. Phi Delta beat Phi Sigma Delta, (default); Kap- pa Uu beat Phi Delta Theta, 22-7; Delta Phi won over Sig~a Phi, 18-3; Psi Upsilon defeated Chi Psi, 18-13; Alpha Phi D~Jta defeated Delta Chi, 9-0. ON ALEXANDER FIELD By GEORGE R. CORY, JR. Union Wins Doubles Captain Chrysler and Sam Keats combined to take the second dou- bles encounter from Phipps and Reynolds, number three and num- ber six man respectively. The con- test marked Jack Moffett's second start in singles competition of the season, Moffett has been bothered with a lame hip all spring which has held his game back somewhat. However, he played a fine game Friday and may do even better in the three remaining intercollegiate matches. The contest with the University of Vermont, which was scheduled for Saturday afternoon on the Gar- net courts, had to be cancelled ow- ing to the slippery condition of the courts after more than twenty-four hours of rain. Union-Willlams Swnnuu:ies Singles-Kelleher, Williams, defeate!l Chrysi~r:, 6-(}, 6-1; Jones, Williams, de- feated Keats, 6-1, 6-(}; Swan, Williams, defeated Stroebel, 5-7, 6-1, 6-3; Phipps, Williams ,defeated Moffett, 8-6, 6-4; Davis, Williams, defeated Roberts, 6-3, 6-1; Reynolds, Williams, defeated War- ner, 6-3, 6-3. Donbles-Kellaher and Jones, Wil- liams, defeated Stroebel and Moffett. 6-0, 6-1; Chrysler and Keats, Union, defeatedc Phipps and Reynolds, 10-8, 6-2: Edelman and· Lazarus, WIIUams, defeated \Varner and Fox, fi-.7, 6\2 6.-2. our temperamental high hurd,ler, wl;w is always late, are going to forecast the results of the Union- Trinity meet, Gus is still malting life miserable for me, but perhaps I have a chance to get back at him this time. HORSESHOES THAT LACBOSSE TEAM Kappa Nu defeated Sigma Chi, AB far as the Rochester track (default) ; Phi Delta Theta won Bill Harkness has turned out a team, which comes here Saturday, over Delta Chi, (default); Delta much better ten than anyone ex- is concerned, it should be another Upsilon beat Theta Delta Chi, (de- pected. When the season started, it walk away for the Garnet. The Yel- · fault) ; Phi Gamma Delta defeated looked like the stickmen would be low Jackets took a good trouncing Sigma Chi, (default). luclty to win a contest, but now it at the hands of Alfred a week ago. D It appears that they Will win the re- Cbi Psi beat Phi Sigma . e a, mainder of their games. A TENNIS PLAYER (default); Beta Theta Pi beat Kap: pa Sigma, (default); Alpha Ph1 The Garnet mentor is the man George Stroebel, whom no- Delta won over Phi Delta Theta, who should receive the credit. He body ever heard of in athletics (default); Neutrals beat Kappa Nu, knows the game as well as any until he began to win tennis (default); Delta Upsilon won over man in the Capitol District, but matches for Union's medicore Cht Psi, 21-8, 21-10; Kappa Sigma what is more important, he knows racquet wielders, has been one lbeat Phi Gamma Delta, (default); hoW to get it across to his boys. of the few men on the team Delta Upsilon defeated Delta Phi, I have heard that Bill bas had at who has ·played consistently 21-9, 21-14; Theta Nu Epsilon won least two offers to coach elsewhere; good tennis. over Phi Gamma Delta, (default) l one, I believe, at Williams, but he OUR STRIDING HOBO Phi Sigma Delta bea,t Theta Delta refused to leave Union. Let us hope Chi, 21-8, 17-21, 21-16; Sigma Chi that he stays for many more years. Bill Kazmiercz!!-k discovered last defea;ted Beta Theta Pi, 21-16, 7-21, In addition to being a good coach, summer how his fellow-miler Bob 21-18. he has the welfare of the college at ·Gottschalk developed that wonder- heart, and this is something that ful stride of his. It seems that the is worth consideration in any coach. red-headed smoothie walked a good One further word on lacrosse:\'! distance each day on the ties of heard yesterday that Hamilton has certain railroad line, which like all started the game this year, and railroad ties are spaced too close that they plan to abolish basallJall for a natural pace and too far apart and have a lacrosse team instead. to talte two in one step. But ac- cording to Kaz, Gottschalk takes The. winners. of. the. baSt' ball league will engage in a ro1Uld-robin tournament. starting. Wednesday noon. and. continuillg, Wedne!ldaY evening and Thursday noon, weath- er permitting. The t;ea,:ms will be no- tified of their opponents by Coach • • • Nels Nltcinnan. The final standings · · NG TO two at a step with no difficu~ty whatsoever, thus lengthening his stride to good advantage. Walthers 1 stride, llllthough entirely lacking in beauty and form, gets him places too. :wm be published in Friday's issue SOMEBQDY ELSE IS GOI of. The. doncordiensls .. All. post- ·.TRY IT poned horseshoe matches are to be One week fl;'o:tn Friday, our good pla.yed this week. friends Eq Fitti! 13.'ncl ~us Waldron, received its name from the circumstances that several religious denom- inations cooperated in its organization in 1795. It was the first non-sec- tarian college in the United States and its charter still prohibits its con- trol by any one church. The liberal spirit which marked its birth made Union a pioneer in educational reform. During the presidency of Dr. Eliphalet Not+, 1804 to I 866, there was added to the usual classical curriculum a scientific course in 1828, instruction in civil engineering was gegun in 1845, and in 1854, chemistry was placed upon a technical basis. Thus from an early date scientific and academic courses have run side by side at Union College, each making its own contribution to the intellectual life on the campus. Union Colle.ge together with its graduate departments in Albany, twelve miles distant, constitutes Union University. The graduate depart- ments and thE;l dates gf their founding are: Albany Medical College, 183'8; Albany Law School, I BSI; Albany College of Pharmacy, 1881; and the Dudley Observatory. The undergraduate courses at Union lead to the following degrees: Bachelor of Arts . Bachelor of Science Bachelor of Science m Chemistry Bachelor of Science 1n Civil Engineering Bachelor of Science m Electrical Engineering Bachelor of Science in Physics The Union campus of 97 acres, overlooking the Mohawk river and facing the Helderberg Mountains, is one of the beauty spots of the country. lnforma+ion regarding entrance requirements may be obtained from C. N. Waldron, secretary of Union College, Schenectady, N.Y.

Four Union Men Attend Outing Conference Discussions of Sports, Movies, Trips, Lecture, Highlights Of Conclave at W. Swanzey Twenty-one clubs of the Inter- collegiate Outing Club Association were represented at. .a conference In West Swanzey, N. H., May 4-6, to which the Union Outing Club sent three delegates, Alton West, '35, Walter Williams, '36, and Russell Knox, '37. Friday afternoon was spent in registration, after which movies were shown of a skii trip taken last winter by the I. 0. C. A. After exploring some unique caves Saturday morning, the vari- ous delegates met In a series of discussion groups to talk over fi- nance, organization, trips, cabins, publicity and winter sports. The afternoon was devoted to further discussions, followed by boating, touch football, and baseball. After dinner a general business confer- ence was conducted by the execu- tive secretary of the Yale Outing Club. One of the high lights of the eve- ning was an illustrated lecture by Bradford Washburn, a senior at Harvard, who showed his most re- cent film, \Attack on Crillon,\ which shows attempts to scale the highest peak in the Fairweather Range of south-eastern Alaska. Washburn has spent three summers in Alaska, as well as a similar length of time in the Alps, and his work Is known and admired by leading explorers in this country. Sunday morning most of the dele- gates climbed Mt. Monadnock, the base of which was but a few miles from the base of the famp. Not the least attractive feature of the conference was the presence of delegates from eleven women's col- lges and five co-ed institutions. In fact the feminine representatives outnumbered the men 45 to 30. Among the outstanding institu- tiQns represented were Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Vassar, Wet.lesley, Smith and Mount Holyoke. PHONE 4-5641 We Call For and Deliver JOS.OTTATI Associated With C. A. Thomas TAILS FOR RENT 30 ERIE BLVD. 112 WALL ST. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CORSAGES $1.00 and Up T. J. KING At the Overhead Crossing on State St. OPEN EVENINGS 24- Hour Service That's What We Give You With lOOo/o Guarantee of Perfect Workmanship in All Our Lines of Cleaning LUX CLEANERS Phone 4a8700--131 State St. You are no better than our advertisers ... they patronize your paper. .. , THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 8, 1934 Captains Enterta1ned By Thorne-Loolnis Camphtg Trip· Local Alumni Association .Advocated by Morris Wheeler DORMITORY NOTICE PARX.L.AWNDRY, INC, Students who wish to rent rooms 105 OllntDn St. THE NEW DENTISTRY The Schenectady Alwnni Associ- ation held a lunCl'heon yesterday at the Mohawk Club at 12:15, followed by the organization's final meeting of the year. Alvin Nitchman, pres- ident of the chapter presided, r~ viewing in some detail the athletic situation in ;the college. The Association entertained as its guests Alexander Turner '34, cap- tain of track, Earl E. Burgess Gar- rison '34, cap-tain ()f baseball, Harry Chrysler, captain of tennis, Joseph Horvath '34, captain of golf, Chaun- cey Foote '34, captain of lacrosse, and Herbert Hausser '34. Nitchman announced .that the concert sponsored by the Associa- tion April 27 had been a financial success. NOTICE The Cap and Gown Committee will be in Silliman Hall Thursday afte!'noon to distribute the caps and gowns which have been ordered. Anyone who desires a gown for the Moving-up Day ceremonies and has not ordered one should see Bill Huntley tonight. • lll in the college dormatories next (La.bor Temple) MorriJS Wheeler '36, of the Theta year should make their selections l.'HONE 4·9011 Delta Chi fraternity, 'has instigated· at as early a date as possible. All College Bundles n specialty plans through the administratlon to reservations will be held until July ·~;;;;;:;;;===========;;;;;.'.! arrange for a Thorne-Loomis Camp- 1, after which any student paying a - ing trip through Industrial· Amer- ten dollar deposit Etl'ld signing the ica. The trip Is to be sponsored by room contract will secure a room Union Col:lege. even though someone else has The trip is divided into sections. previously made a tentative reser- Buses start from Tuxedo, New York, come to Schenectady, and vation fot· it. A five dollar reduc- then turn west across the state. tion will be allowed on all con- They then turn south, following ·the tracts closed before July 1. ;:::m:::u:m::m:::;:me:m::::n::m::m:um:::m:::::u:m iii PHONE 2-5666 !!! !!! For a Better Cleaning !I! m Service !!! mcrystal Cleaners & Dyers!ll :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::u:::::::::::::::::::::n::::::::::::::iii A Phase of Prevetltifll Medici•• College Men find in it unusual opportunities for a career Tan Harvard University Dental School offers a competent course of preparation'+ for the dental profession, A \GLAss A\ Soaoot. Write for catalflf!lll Ltl't)l M. S. Minor. D.M.il,, ·11.0,, Dill Dopt.27,188 Longwood Ave., BoateD• 11111. Great Lakes to Cleveland. Then During the past year there has t:hey continue down to Akron, and been a dema,nd for more furniture up to Dehoit, across Michigan, and than the college has available for \!J,i!!!!!!mmiil!!!!!!!i!m!!!l:!!!!Sm:::m;:mm~;;;;mmm::m;:m::m!;:mm;;;:mmmm:mmm;m;;;;m;m;mmli! around the La.ke to Chicago. From renting. Any student desiring to :;j :;; here some buses go north, others rent furniture should make an 'l!: m goT;;s!r:!;o;!r:~s=o~;hthe trip ~~~~~=~~~vation to avoid disap- [! THE CAZETTE PllESS lr,l is to visit important factories in as ··1 ' • many different fields as possible. Fair, all expenses connected with i~ , ' . i~ ~~~ secondary purpose is sight-see- th~:~~ ~~~r~~t~~nf~ the Thorne- ij Ill The cost of the trip depends upon Loomis trip should g() up to the 511 P R.l NT E R S :n those taking the trip. Last year Graduate Council office and look _i!.! ~.:~ 1 Wheeler took the New Orleans over the circulars that they have •• trip. His expenses amounted to there. Mr. Wheeler, who believes ~! i!! ?.'~t~i~~~~~=~;; ::~r;. -t~:::~;.::.~.:. ~· I...._...........,...,,.,_, ...... ;,, ........ ,_-~--J ays ·· re aways kind to your throat so round, so firm, so fully packed-no loose ends that's why you'll ftnd Luckies do not dry out are made. They're so round and firm, so free from loose ends. That's why Luckies \'keep in condition'' -that's why you'll :find that Luckies do not dry out-an im- portant point to every smoker. Luckies are always-in all-waysl-kind toyourthroat. \'It's toasted\ We like to tell about the finer tobaccos in Luckies-the choicest Turkish and domesticl and only the mild, clean center leaves-they taste better-then \It's toasted\ -for throat protection. But we're just as proud of the way Luckies -- V Luckies are allaways kind to your throat --- ;o Only the Center Leaves- these are the Mildest Leaves _ .... ,. .... ------ Vol = d ~ .:~ ]] cl l s

I I ! t·· .•....•.. :::m:n ::: Iii iii i!i =~ m m m iii rJ !il P.i ~~ ! ' ·~,- ;~n::~~~~;: ~~~ Btds Welcome I To The Guests 1 I Of Union I . ' I College 1 I I I I L_..._._ _______ J Vol. LVII., No. 56 Dean of Students • UNION COLLEGE, SCHE:NECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, :i\IAY 11, 1934 President-Elect Junior Prom to be Held Here Tonight DR. DIXON RYAN FOX Center of Much Campus Activity • Acting President Dr. Edward Ellery has success- full:r guided tht> college through a yPar which has SPPn many changes, chief among which was tht> adoption of the Union Plan. Seven Athletes Tapped By Terrace Council; Student Council Announced l ______ _ PRICE FIVE CENTS Divisional Chairman Dr. Cummins was cl:J.airman of the committee which di·ew up the Union Plan. He has been aptJointed to head the division of social studies. Favorite Spot at Prom Time ,Jackson's Gardens usually are popular on Prom week end at which time this historical spot on th(\ campus is most beautiful. Silliman Hall until recently was the home of the college-Y. Fletcher Henderson and Willard Alexander will play in a Battle of Music a.t Jlmior P1·om tonight, the first dance to be given by the class of 1935. Now it houses the News Bureau, the publications office and th(' Student Service bureau, too. Head of Division Dr. Coffin appointed chairman of the division of La.uguages and Literature. Student Body· President DANIEL F. FLINN Class of 1934 Which Has Joined Alumni of Union College ~--------------------------------------------·---------------------------------------------, l Calendar for Junior Prom Weekend I t I I Today 10:00 p. m.--Junior Prom, Alum- 4:30 Lacrosse, Union vs. C. C. I I Golf match between Union and ni gymnasium. N. Y., on Libr:J.ry Field. I I Hamilton, 2:30 at Mohawk Tomonow 6:00-Dinner Dances. 1 , 1 Golf Club. 12:00 noon-Track, Union vs. Ro- i .. chester University on Alexan- 8:30 -\S. S. Tenaciay,\ presented I 8:30 p. m.--\S. S. Tenacity -- der Field. by The Mountebanks, Mounte- 1 presented ~by the Mountebanks. banks theater, Hanna Hall. Mountebanks theater, Hanna 2:30-Baseball, Union vs. Clark- 1 I Hall. son College, on Alexander 9:00-Fraternity dances. 1 1 Field. I l~------------------·-------------------~----~~-----------------------~--------------------t Famous Engineer Dr. Berg, one of the best known men on the faculty, is famous as an elt\ctrical engint>er. He is chairman of thP division of en- gineering. President of ,34 ALEXANDERM, TURNER

Two \A Causa Perta Parole Assai\ FouNDED 1877 g\ssodate\' Cf~!!~t.iatt 'Jre55 - ~ I '9 j J 'NA110NA~ ~\;\~ t:OV_t.R~C._t) ·1·9 J 4 :.._ The official newspaper of the students of.t!nion College. Published Tuesdays and Frld~ys throughout the college year, except durmg Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five c~nts a co.py; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere m .the Umted States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. .Address all business communications to ,Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union ~oll!lge, Schenectady, N. Y. All other commun1cau~ns to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi Psi Lodge, Umon College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway ....•..... Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg ......•.•.. Business Manager Donald B. Moulton .....••.... Ma,naging Editor Joseph A. Woolman .............. News Ed!tor Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor Thornton W. Whipple .... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. Anderson R. North A. Stevenson v. Gilbert V. Trumbull I:s:>ue Editor ...... Clemens F. Hathaway Reporters Contributing to This Issue M. Bedell R. Cohen W. Ferguson F: Feldman C. Marshall FRIDAY, ::'viA Y 11, 1934 W. Horstman R. Passenger c. Nessen C. Garrison N. Stewart CHARGE TO THE STUDENT COUNC'IL The new Stude11t Council steps into a posi- tiull uf g\rcat impudanC(' in the affairs Hf the student body. Two years ago last Februm·y when the whole student body constitution THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, l\IAY 11, 1934 after they receive their diplomas . next I~=======================~ month. The survey was made through the medium of editors of daily Hewspapers in the univet·sities chosen, namely Harvard, Yale, Georgia, Illinois, Chicago, Texas, Wis- consin, California and Washington. By Sidney David' Of these, only one turned in a report that IN HONOR (i)F ~HE nAUGH-' and trip it as they go on the light P rospects appeared gloomy. 1\Iany college TERS eF EVE, NOT ADA-M fantastic toe? An Elizabethan dra- 1 mall:;t once wisely explained the students have been aided. this year by. t. he Prom weekend is the time men phenomenon of the .dancing ones . p ]' f Ad · · t t' put aside a few h0IY days in the when he ::;aid that they who dance Federal Emer·gency · ,e le mtms l'a IOn. I year, fo~· the glorification of have Iorrg jolted the bra-ins in thei:r· ;\lanv Union Co)lleo·e students have received women. Every move, every action, heads down to their feet. • . • . • 0 • • every word that the men a.re com• It is a known fact that the md thl'(:)U,I!.\h this mediUm, whtch has thus mitted to during thi,; time of wol\- women <He the weaker of the two enabled them to continue their studies :;hip will be directed with every kinds which inherit the earU1. Men spar-k and parlic:le 0f manly ener~y a·re by far the stronge·r i.n mind as and vigor t0wa·rd the women. well as body. It is a!::>0 known that The men go to all :;orts of dis- we live ·in a world where the Dar- comforts, to all manner 0f trials of winia:n law of the survival of the Condition:; in this citv have improved self•negat-ion in order to have the f.it is as inevitable and unalterable where otherwise, in some cases it might have been impossible for them to continue. . . : , . women come and grace our cam- as the course of the stars in the materiwlly w1th the additional forces whtch pu:;. ThP. <'OIIPgt> runs for the sake heaven,;. the General Electric Company has employed. 1 ,of womPn! SUPER!IIA!'i' AT UNION . . . . It would not be n matter of wr- Seniors who make then· residence 111 th·lS I rowful lamentation if the college cit\' ~hould find jobs more availabh~ than was! alonl', and that for a few days. ran • • • 1 solely for the sake of women. But the case a year ago. That IS also true of no, the whole world runs for the out-of-town seniors if the sm·vey of The sake _of women: A.J.l of men's acts ' are dl!'ected ultimately by the me- Literary Digest is taken as a fair cross-sec- tivat!on offered him by women. tion of the COUlltl'y. WOMEN DIPLOMATS Ami the women, snakelike crea- :.\lany members of the class of 1934 are tures that they are, realize this planning to do graduate work. That may weakness in men and play all thek energies toward the end of getting be considered as a sign of increased confi- something from the horned cuck- dence in the outlook fol' the futm·e. l\Ien olds. The women know full wen that a smile, a weedllng word, a tilt who are never willing to conside1· themselves of the neck, a look with the eye h k . d f tl t th will in a moment beguile men with fully educated m·e t ·e In 0 men 1a · e g 1 eater confu:;ion than any amount business world is seeking. It is foolish for of subtle argument. Tbe men are taken in fools that they are, be- anyone to assume the attitude that society come even greater fools and let the is due for a complete 1·egenemtion-America women know they like it. • 1 1. f' f' h d The college men who should have was built up ca1·ef ul Y uy our ore at ers an· learned that the foible::; of women- it takes more than a five-year depression to kind are mere nothing, that there is a far greater purpose to living break down what took one hundl~ed and fifty than dancing with red lips and solt years to build up. flesh, are far more ignorant than the cave man living in the Stone TO THE TERRACE COUNCIL You seven juniors who wet·e tapped this nwming- to form the new Terrace Council have received one of the highest honors that Age who treated his women as the inferiors which they were and still are for that matter. DUMBELLS DANCI<~ Bul what can you expect from the heavy headed youths who come EASY ON THE EYES 000 One half the college seems to be busily en~a~ed in \PIing spot ts. I f d U T • t d t 1J And the othez half? They aze Also. the whole temper 0f civili- zation ha::; been and :;HI! i:; one that can be undet::;tood to a greater ur ·le::;:; degree by mean~ of the Neit- sczhian doctrine of the supremacy of the strong over the weak. In all our business dealings with pe0p!e we take evety advantage ·of weak- nes::; in our competitors. By what other method than that of utter ruthlessness and dbrega rd for the weak do we carry on activities in international politics? Yet when it comes to women we forget all about this and act as i.f we really were Christian::; and help the weak. What is even more disgusting we are even chivalrous. But our actions toward women might then be interpreted a:; base ·because it i::; fot· very difinite ends that we allow them to take ad- vantage of us even though we might crush them. We do not give of our kindne:;s of heart to women because they are wea-k. We are not good for the sake of goodne:;::;, but for the sake of what the women have to give. And the women give. But do they take and take! They harne::;s the men like oxen out of gratitude. may Je con erre on a mons u en Y any equally bu~y being ~pting ~potts. was revised and the Student Council was undet'Q.Taduate group. You have been chosen ooo A couple of math pt ofeHoH \ out at the Univet·Eity of Cincinnati given the powers which the Terrace Council because, in the eyes of the present Tenace wmk£d 12 hom s to figUI e out the · d ptobabilitiE~ of getting honor cat d>' held until then, the move was made 111 or er Council, you are outstanding in yom· class in btid~e hand8. It appeazs that f h d t b d there is a ptobability of 190 po that the govel'lling mg-an o t e stu en ° Y in extra-curl'icular activity, scholastic attain- cent that your hand will have no · t' 't honor at all. What we'd like to would have the element ot con 111Ul Y· ment, leadership, and popularity. know '\ the pzobability that any given pat·tnet of our·s will turn out Since that time the move has been more than justified in view of the fact that the Student Council has seen fit to make many sWeeping l'efUI'l11S for the uetterment of Un- dergraduate affairs on the campus. There are, hm\\ever seve1·al projects in the offing which have yet to ue accomplished by the Student Council. But you must remember that the choice to have no honut at all, not to men· tion l'elf-te~pect • The Tax Committee was created with the ] Jurpose of having just appropriation for was 111ade Ly a very small group, seven sen- iors, who, no matter how sincerely they try to make the best selection, are not all-know- ing and all-wise gods who never nwkt a mis- take, but are simply human beings subject more or less to fratemal and simiiar inter- ests. They cannot be expected to know all the good and bad points of every possil.Jle each undergraduate activity. We have ap- pt·oved of having such a pemmnent commit- candidate for such an honor. tee, yet, we feel, the Tax Commitee can be- nemember that there are several of your come so po\\'erful that it will l.Je in a tyran- classmates who are just as good, if not bet- ter, in every respect, for the Junior Class this yeat· is unusually well-equipped with men of Terrace Council calibre. H woulcl ical position. Allo\\'ances must lw macle for the point that some activities had no budget last year and therdore had nothing to work on in making out theit· l93.t-:~il budget. It has l.Jeen argued in these columns before not be difficult to name another entirely that it is ullfair to the three lower classes cliffet·ent group which would bear the honor 000 The t·t tut n~ ft·om a quretion- nait·r tccentlv !'Uhmittrd to 301 membet> of the faculty at Huntet College in or det to get :;uggel'tionE fot change:> in the cutriculum con- tain thi\ inlet !'!'ling eomment: \Thne waF a 1 ccm rent >\Uggeetion that Amnican litetatute should be given a mote ptominent place among the !'utvey courses.\ 000 \Queen Christina'\ has just tE>ached Swcden. and thE> Scandi- navian ctitice laid on with futy-· \hi<totically inaccut·ate and in the word of ta\te\ thE>y >'aid. \Ay tank I !'lay in Hollywood,\ eh Gt eta? 000 Thi>' is the open !'eaoon on :;en- iot polk and we note with intet- rst that from the wild,; of HanovEr comE's the Dartmouth eeniots' col- lective \gteate\t tegtet,\ namEly \No women.\ Ju,.t to clinch mat- let>', th<\y votl?u that then mmt popular indoot >·pot t wal' necking. and that the m:;titution doing the most for Dat tmouth waE Smith College. MEN WITHOUT WOMEN If not for men where wotlld women be? Could they even gain .for themselves the ·barest means of existence i-f put into competition with men.? No! They would soon be erased from the face of the earth. Yet they are cocksure and in almost all cases rule the men. n is perhaps the most outlandi::;h paradox as anyone can readi:ly see· after a close examination of the situation. But, say some, how could we get along without women? We could easily enollgh l·f some ingen·ious man were to invent some new way of propagating the race. And pro- geny bom should inev-itably be men. Then and only then wi-ll life begin to have .;ome purpose. The way of t'he world now is the way wom- en lead. And t'hey lead men by the nose. CAUSERS OF WAR It is enough to tear the hair, beat the breast, rend the shirt. And ;;peaking o.f shirt:;. Who would need shirts if there were no wom- en. Just think of the thing:; men could do without if they could 0nly steel themselves tu do without women! How much less would men have to labor! DEPRESSION AND CRAB~IEAT Would hunters have to die of cold in the north woods getting furs? Would the Japanese be threatening world peace if women had not begun wearing silks? If women had not started the style of wearing silk, and that only to entice the men to foolishness in the dimly lighted places, the Japanese might then have placed all their energies into another field. Per- haps they would have remained fishermen and canned crabmeat only. As it is the Japane::;e produce more silk than the fools of men can buy; and the men being com- pletely exhausted from making money for the women, cannot make any more money. The only reason why the Japanese did produce so much silk was that they too want- ed money; and that because of the Japanese women who are as goads <Continued on Page lll that the senior class should have a majority just as nobly as you. of the entit·e council. The junior class should You have l.Jefore )'OU the choice of remain- ha \'e a larget· representation and the senior board should be cut down. Certainly the jun- iors pia~· an important t·ole in the affairs of the ::;tudent body and should be g-iven a lar- g-er representation in order to prepare them for the responsibility which they will assume upon becoming seniors. ing- just an honorary l.Jody, or of becoming of some definite use to Union. There is no 000 Whoever wrote \The New Deal- en;,\ he certainly possesses a bub- ble-pricking style and a mean eye for joints in his opponents' armor. He dubs \Little Oggie\ Mills as the man who has been said to \realize that he ought to be President;\ Col. Robert McCormick of the Chicago Tribune as one who \confuses the Even glass insulators behave badly toward tele- phone currents when humidity is high. This has been proved hy experiments at Bell Telephone Lahorato ries. The freshmen and sophomot·es get fair repre::;entation unde1· the present system since they cannot be expected to give much Yoic to the student government for under- cla~sl!len are in a period ·of apprenticeship. .JOBS FOR SENIORS I • . · . · t . . t . f', , , · · o- I freedom of the pre\\ with the right cl \\ ex I:; t111g- 0 pl e\ ell ;\ OU 10111 e XCI C!Sll1,., I to bully hts reportorial staff and the prestio-e and power that o-oes with \'Otll' I employ child-labor as newsboy,;;\ \\' ,.., • and Vtce-Prestdent Garnf'r as \the position in improving cet'tain conditions on livmg ptoof of the political axiom I that you can travPl a long way tf our campus that other agencies have not you only stand still long enough.\ I 000 The book has many good anec- louched. dotes, one concerning Jim Farley's . liking for prize-fight passes to dt,;- As a group of the seven most promment tribute. One promoter is said to · . fl l ~have satd: \H~re. Jim, give me senwn;. next yem·, your 111 uence may Je I back the passe.; and you take thP d d d t . I . . I t colosseum!\ use to g-oo a van age Ill >1'111g'll1g a lOU a ooo Concerning tht> rbe of N. n. A .. more extended social prog-ram at Union, in promoting in every possible direction a more friendly interest, not only among the under- graduates themselves, but between students the anonymous author says: \The· need of the moment was fot· a com- bined punitive expedition. hog-call- ing contest and torchlight parade. The answer was the combined riot squad, ballyhoo and crusade Jed by Gen. Johnson.\ 000 He concludes his book thus: and faculty and administmtion. \The New Deal is a laughing rPvo- • \J.e ;\'Oil Q.'Ol.lJO' to l>e COlJteJJt \''t'th · lution. It Is purging our institu- ,..,. • . \' \ runnmg tions in the fires of mockery, and the Block U Dinner? Or are vou o-oiilO' for- it is lead by a group of '?~n ~ho . • ,..., ,..., , 1 possess two ~upreme quahftcattons 'Vhen it's humid, a film of moisture forms on the glass. The more humid, the thicker the film -and the more electrical current escapes! Im- portant factors governing amount of leakage are the chemical nature of the glass, its shape and age, the amount and kind of dirt on its surface. Through exhaustive studies, telephone men have developed more efficient types of glass insulators -and are seeking ways to make them still hetter. Close attention to every detail of Bell System equipment leads to constantly improving service. BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM In a recent Slll'\'l';\' of nine universities dis- trihuted til rough out the counttT made by The Lih•t'<ll';\. l>ig·est, a distinct tone of optimism was shown about the chances fm· present college seniors to get employment ward 111 to new fields to set an example for for the task. commonsense and a · RPnse of humor.\ futu1·e Tenace Councils? j IGNOTUS. WHY NOT TELEPHONE 110!\IF. ONCE EACH WEEK? REVERSE THE CHARGES IF YOUR FOLKS AGREE. = s ( Da ] s 193! Tel' Da· Me; bai ,can Ser ·']_'hE ber on 'I twe ora out aftl: yea cil ern C01 ing :the .rae ag he! seiJ (}f ple tot cla the the Te1 I me ( f'Ot val ye! the his is cor pr< on ba: is fra i U11 thE thE on ye: ter WB ell se1 th• as ca Co of in: In hi: er. te: ID• is fo th Pt of H• BE th eo h~ .sq ed ar EE C< h< S< ec fo ti• H b! b! Vl

Two Tl-IE CONCORD'lENSIS, FRIDAY, :i.\IAY 11, 1934 after they 1·eceive their ·diplomas next! I MEN WITHOUT WOMEN • • d h h I OBSE. RVAI. IONS If n<:Jt f0r a1en where would tfn t!t~ ·month. The sut·vey was nut e t l'OUg t le RANDOM · · · · · women be'? C0H>hl they even gain . 4J 4J medium of editors of daily newspapers in· . · . · · ·' ' for themselves the barest means of d I B existence if put int<:J competi.tion the univers.itites chosen, namely Harvar , y with men'? No! They would s0on \.tl .Causa Por11a Parole Assai\ FouNDED 1877 Yale, Georg·ia, IlHnoi::;, Chicago, Texas, \\'is-:. d d k be era~ed from the face of the Si r.ey Davi . M·a:r ma·n ea·rth. Yet they are C0Cksure and con::;in, California a.I•ld \\'ashington. , in a:lmo~t aU ca~es rule the men. It g\ssodatrd ~otlrgiute 1i)rrss ['} J J t<Al-,-~,:~~ ~~M.~ ;~ERA~[ 1 1·9 J .. -- -. __ , The official newspaper of the students of l;!nion CoHege. Publ·i.shed Tuesdays and Fndays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Sabscription price Five c~nts a co:py; $3.00 a year; deli·vered anywhere m the Umted States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. A.ddress all business communications to Arthur J. Katz berg, Kappa Nu House, Union ~on:ege, Schenectady, N. Y. All other commumcatl?nB to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi Psl Lodge, Umon College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief A.rthur J. Katzberg ........... Business Manager Donald B. Moulton ..•........ Managing Editor Joseph A. Woolman .............. News Editor Milton A. Berger .•.............. Sports Ed1tor Thornton W. Whipple .... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. Anders<ln R. North A. Stevenson v. Gilbert V. Trumbull Issue Editor ... - .. -.Clemens F. Hathaway Heporters Contributing to This Issue M. Bedell R. Cohen W. Ferguson I<~. l<'eldman C. Marshall FRIDAY. :<.lAY 11. 1934 \V. Horstman R. Passenger C. Nessel! C. Garrison ~. Stewart CHAR<;E ·ro THE STL 1 DENT COUNCIL The new Student Council stl'ps into a posi- tiun uf !l,Tt:<ll importancr in the affairs of the student body. Two ,vem·s ag-o last February when the \\·hole student uody con::>titution '1 'I is .perha.ps the most outlandish Of these, only one turned in a Feport tlmt IN HONOR OF THI:<~ HAUGH-' and trip it as they go on the light paradox as anyone can readily see P •ros.pects appenre<'! gloomy. :.\lany college I TI<~R~ OF EVI~. NGT ADAM fantastic toe'? An EHza.bethaa dra- after a c!0se examina•tion CiJf the matlst 0nce wbiely explained the situation. students have been aided this year by the\ Prom weekend is the tim: men phenomemm of the dancing ones But, say some, how could we .get , . E l' r r A.d . . t t' I put aside a few holy days In the when he said thaot they who dance' a!<:Jhg wHhout women? We cou.Jd l• ede·ral nrerg:ency ,e ·le • 11l'll1l.S ra lOll., year, £o~· the gl'orification ·of have long j0lted the br,ai.ns in their easily enot1gh if some ingeniCiJUS ;\lany Llnion Colleg-e students have receiYed. women. Every move, every action. heads down to their feet. man were to i·nvent some new way . . . ·h' ] h 1 • • i ·every word that the men are con~- lt h. a known fact that tfle of pmpoga.ti.ng the race. And pro- aid through tins medium. \\ IC ol . 'as tun;; mitted to d•\ll ing this t ifl1C of W<:Jr-' Wl!lmen ale the weakt•r (i)f the two II geBy born should inevitably bP mPn ... enahled the111 tf>J contim1e thei1· ;;t~ldiPti 1 ship wiH be directed with every kinds which inherit the earth. Men Then and CiJnly then wiH l·i·fe bPgin . . . . . 1 spark and particle uf m<ton.Jy t•nt·rgy are by far the stronger ion mind a,· to have• sl!lme !'JU!pl!lse. The way where otherwise, 111 ::;o.me ca::;e::; It might, ancl vigor· toward the women. weH as body. It is wls0 known that of the world now is the way WCiJm- lnve been impossible for them to continue.[ The men go to all sorts t?f d·is- we live in a world where the Dar- en lead. Ami they lea.d men by the ' \• comforts, tCiJ aJil manner of tnal>< of winian law of the survival of the nose. Conditions in thi::; cit\' have imp1·oved sPlf-negaotion in ·order t0 have thP fit is as imvita!M and una.l.terable CAt:SERS OF WAR . . . : . . . w0men come and ~race our cam- as the course of the star,; in the matL'rm\.ly with the additlOHal iorce~ whtch pus. ThE' ('ollt'f.W runs for Hw \\'lu· h~avens. It i,; enougfl to tear the haior, beat the breast, 1·end the shirt. And speaking of shirts. Vl!ho woul<·l· the (~eneral Electric Company has e!l1ployed., of wnnwn! St'I'Jo:Rl\IAS :\T t.'~H>:-.i . . . . It would not hP n rna tt Pr of sor- Also, the whole temper of civiJ.i- neecJ sh·irts if there we1e ne wom- zation hu:; been and :;tHI is 011 e that en. Just think of the thing,; mrn can be undetoto~u to a ~~ eatel' w1· 1 cuuld do wi·thout if tlwy coul~ 811'ly less de~ree by mean:; of the Neil-l steel thl•msE>lves to dn without sczhian dectrine of the supr·emacy 1 women! :-;eniors who nm.l\e the11· l'esJdel·lCe lll this rowful lanwntation if thP college l:i t \' should f.i:nd j olJs IHOI'e availal>le than \\'ctti' al<>n<'. and that for a few days. r:an · · solely fer· the sakE' of women. But the case a year a.go. That is a•lso tnte of ~o. the whole world run,; for the out-of -town seNiors if the survev of The sake .of women: AH of men's act:; ' • are drrected ulbma·tely by the mo- Litemry Digest is taken as a fair Cl'OSs-sec- tivati@n ort:ered him by women. lion of the country. \VOM'J<:N IHl'LOMATS And the women. snakeli.ke crea- :\lany members of the clas;; o.f 193.1 are tures that they are, realizE\ thiH weakness in men a·nd play all their energies toward the u;d of getting something fmm the horned cuck- olds. The women know full well that a smile. a weedling word, a tilt planning to do gntduate wo1·k. That may be conside1·ed as a ::;ign of increased confi- dence in the outlook for the future. :\len who are never wiUiag to consider themselves of the neck, a look with the eye I k\ d f tl th wiH in a moment beguile men with fully educated are t le m 0 men wt e ;.;teater confusion than any amount business world is ::;eeking. It i::; fooli::;h for of subtle argument. Tbe men are taken in fouls that they are, be- anyone to assume the attitude that society come even greater fools and let thP is due for a complete I'eg-eneration-Amel'ica women know they like it. .• • · , ... ' 1·1 • L • , f .. ·. th, .. , d The college men who should have \\,l::i lnttlt t:tpcaieiu ~ u~ OUl 01efot el::; an !learned that the fmbles of women- it takes more than a five-Year depression to' ldnd are mer<' nothing, that there • I is a far greater purpose to living break down what took one hundred and fifty I than dancing with red lips and 8oft ~·ears to build up. flesh. are far rr:o~·e i~?norant than the cave man hvmg 1n the Stone TO THE TERRACE COUN('IL You seven junior::; who we1~e tapped this Age who treated his women a:; the inferiors which they were and still are for that matter. DUMB:ELLS DANCE But what can you expect from the heavy headed youths who come EASY ON THE EYES nwming to form the new Te!·race Council have received one or the highest honol'S that I ~~ 0 b~~i~:./:~~a~h~:ed ~~ 11 ~~~i~~e,~~rtt~~ , · 1 f ... ed 1 a Union student b\· anv And thP other half? ThE>y are of the strong over the weak. In all: How mueh less would men have our business dealing» with people I to 'labor! we take ever·y advanta·ge of weak- DEI'RESSION AND CRABMEAT ness in our competitor·:;. By what Would hun·ters have to die of other meth0d tha': I hal of utter [cold in tfle north w0ods getting ruthlessnes~ and di>I'Pgar~ ~~r· t~e furs'? Would thP J'Upanese be :neak do we car~·:,: on actrvrtles m 1 threaten·ing world peace i{ women mter~atwnal polrtrcs '? Yet . ~hen. It\. had not. begun wearing ,;ilks? If c0mes t? w0men we. forget all women had not started the style about th1~ ~nd act as tf we really of wearing sitk, and that only to were c.hns\la.ns and he.lp th~ weak. 1 entice. the men to foolishness in the What Is evo:n more drsgustmg we dimly lighted places, the Japanese are even chrvalrons. might then have placed al'l their But our actions toward women 1 energies into another field. Per- might then be inter preted as base [ haps they would have remained because it is for very dHinite ends fi:;hermen and canned crabmeat that we allow them to take ad- 1 only. A,; it i:; the Japane:;e produce vantage of u:; even though we 1 mote silk tha.n the fools of men might crush them. We do not give, can buy; and the men being com- of our kindn~ss uf heart to women 1 pletely l'Xhau:;ted from making becaus!' they at·e weak. We are not 1 money fm· the women, cannot make good for· the sake ef goodness, but i any mur·e money. The only rea.,;on for the sake of what the women I why the Japanese did produce so have to give. And the women give. much :;ilk wa:; that they too want- But do they take and take' They: ed money; and that beca.use of the harness the men like oxen out of: Japane:;e women who a.re as goads gratitude. 1 Continued on Page lll lll<l~ Je COn ell 01• ' · · equally bu~y bPing >'Pl ing ~pot t~. was revisE:.'d a.]J(I the Student Council was undergTaduate g-roup. You have been chosen ooo A coup!£> of math ptofeHon out al the Univer ~ity of Cincinnati given the powers which the Tenace Council because, in the e~·es of the present Tenace worked 12 hour» to figme out thr d · d probabilitie> of g€\tin~ honor card~ held until then, the move was ma e Ill or er Council. yon are outstanding in ~·our class in brid~e hand~. It appears that there is a pwbability of 1 90 pu that the govemin);' org-an of the :-;tudent body \Vould have the element of continuity. Since tha.t time the mow has been more than jusli fied in view of the fact that the Student Council has ~een fit to make man~· sweeping reforms for the bette1·ment of un- <'!el·grwlua te affa.i r;; on the campu;;. There are, ho\\'e\'E'l', several pro.iL'Cb in the offing· which have yet lo be accomplished l.J~· the Student Council. in extra-cunicuhn· activity, scholastic attain- cent that yom hand will havP no honm at all. What we'd like to ment, leadership, and popularity. know i; the probability that any given partne1 nf outs will turn out But you must remember that the choice to have no honor at all, not to men· lion >clf-re8prct? was made by a very small gnmp, ;;even sen- iors, who, no matter how since1·ely they try 0011 Thr uturn> fwm a rtm,tion- naitr l(eentlv ~ubmittrd to 301 m!'mbet~ of ihe faC\ulty at Hunter Colle~£> in ordPr to get\ ~uggestiom' to make the best selection, are !lot all-know- for change> in th< curriculum con· ing and all-wise gods who neve1· makt: a mis- take, but a1·e simply human beings subject Jnore or less to fraternal and simiiar inter- tain thi~ intf'r \'ting commfnt: \ThuP wa, a HC'UJrent ,uggc~tion that AmHican literature should be given a more pt ominent place among the 'Ul Vf'Y COUl'SfS\ The Tax Committee was createcl with the ests 'l'he.\· cannot be eXt)ected to know all purpo:oe of having ju~t appropriation fm· · · · 000 \Queen Christina'\' has just 1eached Swf!len. and the Scandi· navian ct itic~ laid on with fury \hi~tot ically inaccurate and in thE wont of taete\\ they >aid. \Ay tank I >lay in Hollywood,\ eh GrEta'? the g-ood and lJa<'! points of every possible each undergTadtmte activity. We have ap- pmved of having such a pemmnent commit- candidate for such an honor. tee, yet, we feel. the Tax Commitee can be- ltemrmber that there are several of your come ~o powe1·ful that it will be in a tyran- classmates who are just as good, if not bet- ical po~ition. AllowancPs must be made for ter. in every respect, for the Junior Class the point tlmt some activities had no budget this year is unusuall~· well\equipped \\'ith last ymr and therefore had nothing to work 011 in nwking out theit· 19:3-l-:~:i budget. men of Terrace Council calilwe. H would It has been at·g-ued in the~e columns before not be dilficult to name another entirely that it i;; unfair to the three lowe I' classes different group which would bem· the hono1· 000 Thif i>' the open >eaeon on fen· im poll>, and we note with inteJ· £st that from thP wilds of Hanov£1 comes the Dartmouth >eniots\ col· lectiVE ··gr eatP,t regret,\ namtly \No women.\\ Ju,t to clinch mal· ter>', thPy voted that theii mo:;t popular indom :;·port was necking, and that the in>titution doing the mo>'t for Dat tmouth wa~ Smith College. that the ;;enior class should have a majority of the entire council. The junior class should have a laJ·ge1· representation and the senior board ~hould be cut down. Certain]~· the jun- iors play Wl important role in the affairs of the student bodr and should be given a lar- ger reprPsenta tion i 11 order to p1·epare them fo1· thl' responsibility which they will assume upon becoming seniors. Th.e freshmen and sophomo1·es get fair representation under the pre;;ent ;;~·stem since they cannot be expected to give much voic to the student government for undet·- chttiSI1lPII al'l' in a period of apprenticeship. .JOBS FOR ~E:;\JIORS In ;t recent sm·w,~· of nine universities dis- tributed thJoughout the count1·~· made b~· The Literar,\· lligest, a distinct tone of optimi~m was shown ahout the chances fo1· present college seniors to get employment just as nobly a::; rou. You have before you the choice of remain- ing ju.::;t an honoraTy body, or of becomiHg of some definite use to L'nion. There is no 000 Whoever wrote \The New Deal- ers,\' he cer·tainly possesses a bub- ble-pricking style and a mean eye for joints in his opponents\ armor. He dubs \Little Oggie\ Mills as the man who has been said to \1 ealize that he ought to be President;\' Col. Robert McCormicl1 of the Chicago Tribune as one who \confuses the law existino· to prevent .vou from exercising- I freedom of the press with the right Fo • to bully his reportorial staff and the prestige and power that goe~ with vour employ child-labor as newsboys;\' - • and Vice-President GarnPr as \the position in impmving- cei1ain conditions on living proof of the political axiom 1 that you can tra v~l a long way if our campu;; th.at other agencies have not 1 you only stand still long enough.\ I 000 The book has many good anec- touched. , dotes, one concerning Jim Farley\s . :liking for prize-fight passes to dis· As a group of the seven most promment ~tribute. One promoter· is said to . . have said: \Here Jim. give me sen1ors next rear, your mfluence may he 1 back the passe., and you take th\ 1 d ..J t . l . . 1, t I colosseum!\ usee to goo au Vall age Ill Jrmgmg· auou a 1 ooo Concerning the rise of N. R. A. more extended sochl prooTam •tt Vnion in the anonymous author says: \The · ' \\' ' ' need of the moment was for a com- pl'Oilloting in eVel'V possible diJ·ection a lllOI'e bined punitive expedition, hog-eall· • ing contest and torchlight parade. fl'iendly interest, not only among the under- The answe:· was the combined riot squad. ballyhoo and crusade led by gmduates themselves, but between students Gen. Johnson.\ 000 He concludes his book thus: and faculty and administration. \The New Deal i~ a laughing revo- \ · b h lution. It is purging our institu- .--.re ~·ou gomp; to e content wit running tiom in the fires of mockery. and the Block lJ Dinne1·? Or are vou O'Oing for- it is lead by a group of r:n~n ~ho • ,., I possess two supreme quahf1catwns ward into new fields to set futul'e Termce Councils? an example fol' for the taRk: commomensP and a I sense of humor.'' IGNQTUS. Even glass insulators behave badly toward tele- phone currents when humidity is high. This has been proved by experiments at Bell Telephone Laboratories. \Vhen it's humid, a film of moisture forms on the glass. The more humid, the thicker the film -and the more electrical current escapes! Im- portant factors governing amount of leakage are the chemical nature uf the glass, its shape and age, the amount and kind of dirt on its surface. Through exhaustive studies, telephone men have developed more efficient types of glass insulators -and are seeking ways to make them still hetter. Close attention to every detail of Bell System equipment leads to constantly improving service. BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM WHY NOT TEI.F.Pl!ONE !IO~IF. ONCE EACH WEEK? REVERSE THE CHARGES IF YOUR FOLKS AGREE. - s~ c Ne Ac Da:h R dl St>• 1935 Terr: Day Mem Dain can Sem Thes ber < on t: Th twen or·ar: l outs ! affai ! year 1 cil t1 I ernn I Cour ! ing 1 I the race age held seni1 of w plet' tota: clas: thes the Tel'! E: men Cl fool. vars year the his·: is c com pror on t base is a frat AI Ups the the on t yea1 tenr was cil 1 ser\ the as can Cou ,JI oft ing In I his eral tea1 mo1 is I fort thiE Pro of He )] Bet the ed · has squ edil anc Bo! Cot hor. J Set: ed 1 for tior He bal bal li as foo leg eqt •bal the nin der Ser cla Up Scl ' va1 mo of ye! pia an~ on fre tin of ne' beJ wa Co stu me ter tlu

n et in en ve of ng be If to eir er- so nt- THE CONCOR:DIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY H, 1934 Three SeVen Athletes From Class of '35 Tapped for New Terrace Council; NeXt Year's Student Council Announced Today ----------~------·------------------------------------~----------® New Councilmen Active On Campus· Daht, Fox, McNab, Moffett, Rotunda, Semera:d and WaJ .. dmn At·e Tapped Seven membets of the class of 1935 were tapped for the 1£34-35 Ten·ace Council in the Moving Up Day e:l(ercises this rnorning .in the Memorial Shape!. They are Chtules Dnin, Austin Fox, John M 1ffet, Dun- can McNab, Jame11 Rotm~(JlJ., Ralph Semerad and Williaro Waldl'On . ·'J.'hese men rep1esent a large num~ ber of the e:ittra-cuPricular activities · on the campus. The 'l'errace Council was .formed · twenty-seven years ago a$ an hon- orar·y society Ior seniors who are outstanding ill the undergraduate· aftla'irs of the college. Until two· years a;go, when the Student Coun- cil took its place in the stud(ln t gov- ernment, the out-going 'l;'errace Council tapped the seven outstand- ing men of the Junior class to form :the nucleus of the succeeding Ter- race Council. I~ the .fall following, a general student body meeting was held at which members of' the senior class were nominated, four c.f whom were to be elected· to com• plete the council ,thus making a total of eleven. Members of all classes were eligible to vote for these men. The class of 1933 was the first th!lt did not nave eleven Terrace Councilmen. Each of the new Terrac-e Council- men is an athlete. Rotunda Is Only Neutral Elected Loomis, McDowell, Moulton And Terrace Councibnen To Form Senior Board Only one neutral, James Rotunda, was among the fourteen students whose election to the Student Coun- cil was annaunced this morning during the moving-up exercises. The senior board of the council will be compo:>ed' of Aul:!tin Fox and William Waldron, who were carried over from the preceding council, and the following eight men who were elected by vote of the student body Tuesday: Ralph Semerad, Donald Moulton, Charles Dain, Duncan McNab, John Mof- fett, James Loomis, James Rotun- da, and Ray McDowell. On the junior board, in addition to Robert North who was carried over, there will be .Joseph Milano, Charles Krull, and Guy Griswold. The sophomore board will consist of James Doyle, Donald Liffiton, and Robert Everest. Raymond McDowell, a member of Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity and resident of Holyolte, Mass., has been on the varsity basketball team for two years and is captain- elect for the next season. He earned his numerals in freshman football played on the yearling basketbali and ba:leball teams, and is a third baseman on the varsity baseball nine this year, In his sophomore year he was on the Dean's List and president of the class, and this year is a member of the Junior Prom committee. Oharics Dahl is cap~ain-elect of f'Ootball team and a star on the varsity baseball, team for the second· yeat'. \Chip\ plays the backfield on the gridiron team and is noted for his ·ability at forward passing. He is chairman of t:he Junior Prom committee which is in charge of the prom to be eld tonight. Daii1 played on the freshman football team and baseball team two years ago. Dain is a member of ·the Beta Theta Pi fraternity and lives in Oswego. The new Tenace Council. Top row, left to t•ig·ht: Dtmean McNab, James Rotrmda, Ra.lpn Semerad, Austin Fox. Bottom row, left to right: John Moffett, William Waldron and Ohat'les Duin. Donald Moulton, who is affiliat,. ed with the Delta Upsilon frater- nity and lives in Schenectady, has played football on the freshman team and two years on the varsity and is also on the traclt team. He was class histo.rian in his sopho- more year and this year he is class Austin Fox, a memb.~l' -of the Psi Upsilon fraternity, was captain of the 1933 football team, playing at the position o{ center. He starred on the varsity hockey team for two years and is now playirig on the tennis team for the first .time. He was treasurer of the Student Cou,n- cil this year. In recognith;m of his services as a Student Councilman the retired Sen·!or Board chose him as one of the two who woul<l be carried over to ·the new Student Council. _His limne is in Buffaio. Cory Wins Bailey 'S. S. Tenacity' Gives Mauntebanks Dr. F. Fetter Will Cup;Man~onored Stiff Workout in Dress Rehearsal Be Ch.ief Examiner treasurer, a member of the Junior Prom committee, and of the Hale Club, and president of the French Club. He has maintained a first grade average, holds a General Scholarship, and was awarded the Cornelia Veeder scholarship Wednesday, He is Managing Editor of The Concordlensis, Associate Editor of The Garnet, and a mem- ber of the News Bureau. Markm.a~ Given Th1•ee Prizes At Annual Prize Day Exer-· cises; Dr. Coffin Speaks ¢----------------------- Member of Princeto-n Faculty And Widely Known Author- ity on Money and Tariff ~--;-· The Mountebanks Pr·om produc- tion of \S. S. Tenacity,\ to be held tonight and tomorrow night, has finished its period of dress rehear- sal and is prepared to duplicate its \vVe cannot afford to overlook other fine performances of the sea- the fact that 'Some of our fellow son. citizens are not now and will never The Concordiensis has be!'n for- be Intellectual, no mattl'r how gen- tunate in persuading one of their ,Jolm Moffet was one of the st:ars erously '\Ve construe that word,\ de- constant visitors, one of Schenec- of the 1933-3~ basitetball team, .play- clared Dr. Harison C. Coffin, pro- tady's lesser !mown but neverthe- ing his firat :season with the team. fessor of Greek and chairman of Jess honest critics and reviewers, In his fresh:qtan year .he played on· the division of language and liter- Nicolo Ottaviano, to register his bis class team and won his num- ature, in the pt·incipal address Wed- impressions of the dress rehearsal. eraJs for participation with the nesday morning at the annual His special review follows: team. Last year he was the sopho-. Prize·da:y exerciRes. In commending \•s. s. Tenacity' is the most ab- mol·e star of the tennis team .an,d the students who had won awards sorbing and interesting play I have is gradually regaining last year's, he rell'inded them that \it is the ever seen,\ he said. \We fully real- form In his play with the netmen d'uty of the educated men in the ize that a play Is hardly at its best this year. Moffet is on the Junior cot~ntty to demonstrate that they during the last rush of rehearsals, Pt'om Committee and is a member have a 1 ight to their title by aC'tual- but to do the Mountebanks justice, of the. Phi Delta T~eta fraternity. ly doing a little thinking.\ we have never seen a better work- He lives in Schenectady. In speaking of the \challenge to out, everything cqnsldered. · Duncan McNab, member of the intelligence\ Dr. Coffin reviewed \The sets, to dispose of the phy- Beta Theta Pi fraternity, plays on the history of intellectual thinking sica! part of the production, ;were the varsity lacr.osse team. He play- and urged upon the students the quite a novelty for the Mounte- ed wit hthe stickmen last year, and task of accepting their duty as edu- banks. For once we were actually has been on the varsity football cated men. He also defined what able, without the use of excessive .squad for two years. McNab is· the good teacher is and what hi~ . imagination to determine the locale editor4n\chief of the 1935· Garnet responsibilities a!\~. and utility of the scenery, and we and a. memb~r of the Publication Dr. Edward Ellery, acting presi- must confess that the drinking bar Board He has been-on the Student dent, presided, and Dean Charles F. was worlt of art. The bottles had. a Council for two years. M'CNab's 'F. Ga:ris awarded seventeen prizes very pleasing smell, that might home is in Schenectady. and ten new scholarships to the have been duplicated in the breath James Rotunda, whose hom. e is in students. Sidney David Markman of of the property manager, but let B 0 kl th ee rl ·~es and that pass, lest we be accused of Schenectady, is a neutral. He play- . r o yn won r P \ . ed the backfield on the football team Thomas J. Crowley of Schenectady jealousy. The new:>papers' advances · d 1 · h 1 h 1 have not informed us whether the for two years and played that posi- won a prtze an a aw sc oo sc o - h\ set is actually 'essentialistic', but tion on his freshman team in 1931. ars 1 P· we hope not. He also plays with the varsity base- Cory Wins Bailey Cup steamship Posters Colorful ball squad and the varsity basket- George R. Cory, jr., of Oradell, \The posters of the steamship ball squad. N .. J., who ha'Cl, as editor of the Con~ lines provided perhaps the most col- Ralph Semerad has .been termed cordiensis, conducted a vigorous orful part of the production, with as Union's quadruple threat on the campaign for many reforms in both the exception of the fireman's shirt football team. He is by far the col- faculty and student activities, was worn by Hldoux, Abraham Smith, lege's outstanding athlete, playing awarded the Bailey cup for \having in the first act. There was also a equally well In basketball and base- rendered the college the greatest backdrop with some rather jaun- !b!lll as in football. He has been on service.\ diced sailing-ships and a discour- the Student Council since its begin- Dr. Co.ffin said much of our aged lighthouse, and a distinctive ning and was secretary of the stu- -trouble today a:rises from the fact touch was added by the words dent body in his sophomore year. that much of our intelligence has which augmented the pictured Semerad is president of the junior not been proper·Jy disciplined. What scene, 'Pinxit S. D. Markman, May cla.ss and is a member of the Delta is needed is the observance of facts. 1934.' We thought this a particular Upsilon fraternity. His home is in and the regulation of conduct in daring effect, and one of which the Schenectady. accordance with them. Mountebanks may well be proud. William Waldron playe<;i with the \The wodd which once suffered The cast was admirably chosen. varsity football team in his sophO- from excess of cruelty now suffers Abraham Smith as Hidoux was su- more year and has been a member from an excess of sentimentality perbly drunk, but it was probably of the varsity track team for two and muddy thinking\ which has animal spirits. His philosophy was years. In his freshman year he produced a new kind of cruelty, a bit marred by the fact that he played with his class f{_)otball team one which is caused by \those too looked as if he enjoyed life in spite and basketball team. lie ha£J been soft-minded to think matters of It, but naturally that is not for on the Student Council since his through for themselves\. This ex- us to judge. freshma,n year and for the second cess of emotional thinking has Bastien and Segard time was chosen to pe the member \drowned the wo~·ld in blood, put \The two side Iticlts, Bastien and of' his b'oard to . carry over to the·· incompetents in office and allowed Segard, or Arthur Firth an<! George new Student Council. He is a mem- them to ruin the lives of others\. Haskell, were also good. Of course her ()f the Tax Committee which These veils of emotionalism must they changed places at times, es- was established by the Student be striped away, he said, fat' only 'peCia!ly when the fh•st forgot his CoUtlcid to consider budget Of a:ll· discipUne can give us real intellec- lines and the second became dam- student activity. Waldron is a tuai freedom. ineering, but It all evened out in tnem1ber of the Alpha Delta Phi fra- \We do not educate .people to the end. The two divided their work teJ'nity and a resident of Scl;ienec- make them swaliow a ready made ·rather neatly, for While Segard was tady. (Continued on Page 10) (Continued on Page 5) Terrace Council Tapping Features Moving-Up Day Seven of the most prominent membet·s of the Class of 1935 were tapped for membership In the Ter- race Council as a part of the Mov- ing-Up Day exercises in the Mem- orial Chapel this morning. Follow- ing the moving up of classes, the class of 193~ filed past the Terrace Council. Thomas Acheson of the graduating class then tapped John Moffett; Daniel Flinn tapped James Rotunda; Edward Hutton tapped Ralph Semerad; William Kazmierc~ak lapped Austin Fox; Hobert Oppenheim tapped Charle,; Dain; Harry Pa1·ker tapped Dun- can McNab; Alexander Tuvner tap- .ped Williarn Waldron. The exercises which had opened with a procession into the chapel continued as the results of the Student Council and Senior Class elections were announced. The tra- ditional Alouette Songs were led by Erwin Rocl1well and James Hora:n. Daniel Flinn, president <>'f the graduating class read a charge to the members of the two new coun- cils and Mr. Nelson Nitchman ad- dressed the whole Student Body. Th4,1 exercis~s clos<'d with the' singing of the Alma Mater. -----·0----- Jennings and Brad I e y Fight Fire at Chi Psi James Loomis comes from Hart- ford, Conn., and is a metnber of For the second time, Dr. Frank Alpha Delta Phi fraternity. He W. li\etter internationally known played football and baseball in his freshman year, and has been on the authority on money and tariff, will varsity nine two years, earning his serve as chief examiner of the can- letter as alternate pitcher and left didates for honors in economics, on fielder. He has also earned a minor Monday, May 14, it was announced letter as assistant manager of the hockey team, and is the manager today by Dr. William W. Bennett, for next yea1·. He earned a second chairman of the department of eco- ·grade average this year, placing nomics. Dr. Fetter has been on the him on the Dean's List. economics faculty of Princeton Robert North is a member of since 1924, and has served on the Delta Upsilon fraternity and lives in Walton. He is a first grade stu- Kemmerer commission of financial dent, holds the Alexander scholar- advisers to the governments of ship, and won the Van Orden Chile, Poland, Ecuador, Bolivia and Prize in his freshman yeat·. He is China. president of his class, was on the Student Council In both his fresh- The bringing in of Dr. Fetter as man and sophomore years, and is chiaf examiner is a continuation of the only sophomore elected to the Hale Club. He is on the Juninr the policy adopted last year of us- Board of The Concordiensis, is a ing an outside examiner rather member of the Outing Club and is than having the professors, who the author of several books on tra- have supervised the work of the vel. He earned a minor letter in candidates, also se1·ve as their ex- cross country running last season, Charles Krull comes from Lyn- aminers. brook, N. Y., and is affiliated with Selections At End of 2nd Year the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. He was quarterback on the freshman Honor candidates are selected at football team last year and played the end of the sophomore year from right end on the varsity this sea- the applicants who have shown son, and he is a member of the promise and ability to do indepen- track team. He has. been on the dent work. In their junior year one Dean's list several times this year. of the courses is a reading and seminar course In which they are Guy . Griswold, a resident of given training in certain aspects of Coatesville, Pennsylvania and a Two fearless firefighters, Ned the field they are interested in and member of the Phi Gamma Delta Bradley and Tom Jennings saved which are not included in the reguc fraternity, was elected captain of the Chi Psi Lodge from complete Jar courses offered in economics. the varsity swimming team for next ruin at three o'clock Thursday The candidates are also given train- year and is an alternate pitcher morning. Jennings was awakened ing in research methods and the and left fielder on the nine. He is by the sound of flames near him preparation of reports. active in intramural tennis and won and upon Ioolting out of the win- his numerais with the freshmen dow li4,1 saw the awning which In the senior year ea.ch candi- basketball team last year. He sang adorned the porch jn a mass of date selects a special .field for in- with the Glee Club as a freshman. flames. Rushing to Bradley's room tensive study and prepares a ·thesis J h upon some topic included in that osep Milano lives in Schenec- he told hiln of the conflagration field. tady and is a member of Delta and between the two, with the aid. Upsilon. He played ft•eshmen foot- of two fire extinguishers which are The comprehensive examination ball last seaso nand was fullback ltept on hand they managed to put Is composed of three parts; part ~ith the varsity this year. He the fire out. one is a written examination cover- JUmps center for the basketba11 The awning was half burned and ing the field of economics in gen- team and throws the. discus and thereby rendered useless. The fra- era!; part two is a written examina- shot for the track team. He was ternity had purchased a new glider tion in the 'candidates special field; class treasurer this year. for the porch the day before and and .part three is the oral exami- D ld if 1 nation, which will talte place Mon- ona L f ton, who comes from that too was 'ruined. The fl.re was day. Albany and is affiliated with Phi of unknown origin. Delta Theta, was president of the 0 In addition to Dr. Fetter the ex- Class of '31, and plays with the EYE FOR. AN EYE amining committee is composed of fJ•eshmen lacrosse team. Professors Joseph D. Doty, Philip James Doyle, a membet• of AI· Stanley and Dr. Bennett. Dr. Earl pha Delta Phi, and a resident of A man-sized blaclt camera, E. Cummins, who supervised the Springfield Massachu tt 1 wol\lt o.f the cand1\dates for honors · ' . se · s, Pays stretching out seven feet horizon- with the freshmen lacrosse team. tally, i's heing used by University of Will not partlci•pate In giving the Robert Everest is a member of Minnesota psychologists to record examinations. t~e Delta Upsilo:n fratet11ity and .the speed and movement of the eye · There will be three candidates ex- ltves in GloversVIlle. He rail with as it reads the printed page. amined for honors on Monday. the freshmen cross country team • •

t ,; y c d d n y g n I t ' l I r- t- THE CONCORD1ENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1934 Three SeVen Athletes From Class of '35 Tapped for New Terrace Council; NeXt Year's Student Council Announced Today ~---------------------------------------------------------------- New Councilmen Active On Campus. Da:in, F()x, McNab, Moffett, Rotuncla, Semer .. td and Wal dmn At:e Tapped Sl:'ven membe1s of the class of 1935 wet e tapped for the 11.:34-35 Tm 1 ace Council in the Moving Up Day exerdses this mmning in the Memorial Shape!. They ::n·e Chades Dain, Austin Fox, John M 1ffet, Dun- can McNab, James Rotmtda, Ralph Sememd and Wlllia:m Wa·ldt on. These men Iepresent a large num- ber of the extra-curricular activities on the campus. The •ren ace Council was formed twenty-se.~en years ago as an hon- m-ary society for seniors who are outstanding in the undetgraduate affairs of the college. Until two years ago, when the Student Coun- cil toolt its place in the student gov- ernment, the out-going Terrace Council tapped the seven outstand- ·ing men of the Junior class to form the nucleus of the succeeding Ter- race Council. In the fall following, a general student body meeting was held at which membezs of the senior class were nominated, four of whom were to be elected to com- plete the council ,thus making a total of .eleven. Membets of all classes were eligible to vote for these men. The class of 1933 wa~ the flr·st th,.t did not 'hu vP eleven Terrace Councilmen. Each of the new Terra!\e Council· men is an athlete. -------------------------~ Rotunda Is Only Neutral Elected Loomis, McDowell, Moulton And Terrace Councilmen To J.t'OI'nt Senim· Boat·d Only one neutral, James Rotunda, · was among- the fourteen students whose election to the Student Coun- cil was annaunced this morning during the moving-up exer·cisPs. The seniot· board uf the council will I.Jp com)lo~ed of AU>llin Fox and William Waldton, who were carried over from the preceding council, and the following eight men who were elected by vote of the student botly Tuesday: Ralph SPml'rad, Donald Moulton, Charles Dain, Duncan McNab, John Mof- fett, James Loomis, Jari1es Rotun- da, and Ray McDow~ll. On the junior board, in addition to Robert North who was carl'ied over, there will be Joseph Milano, Charles Krull, and Guy Gz·iswold. The sophomore boafd will consist of James Doyle, Donald Liffiton, and Robert Everest. Raymond McDowell, a member of Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity and resident of Holyoi{e, Mass., has been on the varsity basketball team for two years and is captain- elect for the next season. He earned hi::; numerals in freshman football, 1 played on the yearling basketball and ba:lE'ball teams, and is a third baseman on the varsity baseball nine this yeat·, In his sophomore year he was on the Dean's List and president of the class, and this year is a member of the Junio1· Prom committee. Cluules Dain is captain-elect of football team and a star on the varsity baseball team for the second year. \Chip\ plays the backfield on the gridimn team and is noted for his ·ability at forw-ard passing. He is chairman of the Junior Prom committee which is in charge of the prom to be eld tonight. Dain played on the freshman football team and baseball team two years ago. Dain is a membet• of -the Beta Theta Pi fraternity and lives in Oswego. The IWW Tpn·ace Council. Top row, left to 1·ight: Dtmcan McNab, James Rotunda, Ralph •Semel'll,<l, Austin Fox. Bottom row, left to rig-ht: John Moffett, William Waldron and Oharll's Dain. Donald Moulton, who is affiliat- ed with the Delta Upsilon frater- nity and lives in Schenectady, has played football on the freshman team and two years on the varsity and is also on the track team. He was class historian in his sopho- more year and this year he is class Austin Fox, a member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity, was captain of the 1933 football team, playing at ·the position o{ center. He starred Cory Wins Bailey 'S. S. Tenacity' Gives Mountebanks Dr. F. Fetter Will Cup;ManyHonored Stiff Workout in Dress Rehearsal Be Ch_ief ~xaminer on the varsity hockey team for two Markman Given 'l'hree PrizeR --- <%-------------- years and Is now playing on the A A I tennis team for the first time. He t nnual Prize Day Exer-· . The Mountebanks Prom pzoduc- Tel'race Council Tapping was treasurer of the Student Coun- cises,• Dt·. C'olfin Speaks. twn of \S. s. Tenacity,\ to be held. F M • { cil this year. In recognition of his tonight and tomorrow night, has eatui·es OVIngM Jp Day services as a Student Counc.ilman --- finished its period of dress rehear- h t , d s · B d h h' sal and is prepared to duplicate its t e re tre emor oar c ose tm \We cannot afford to overlook other fine performances of the sea- Seven of the most p1omtnent as one of the two whe would be the fact that some of our fellow son. members of the Cla:;s of 1935 were carried over to the new Student citizens are not now and will never The ConcOic.lien~is has been for- tapped for membership in the Ter· CounciL His home is in Buffalo. be intellectual, 110 mattPr how gen- tunate in pet,;uading one of their race Council as a part of the Mov- ,John Moffet was one of the stars erously w'e construe that word,\ de- constant visitors, one of Schenec- ing-Up Day exercises in the M:em- of the 1933-34 basketball team, play- clared Dr. Harison C. Coffin, pro- tady's lesser known but neverthe- orial Chapel thi:; morning. Follow- ing his first season with the team. fessor of Greek and chairman of less honest critics and reviewers, ing the moving up of classes, the In his freshman year he played on the division of language and liter- Nicolo Ottaviano, to rPgister his class of 1935 filed past the Terrace his class team and won his num- ature, in the principal address Wed- impressions of the drPflS rehearsal. Council. Thomas Acheson of the erals for participation with the nesday morning at the annual .His special review follows: graduating class then tapped team. Last year he was the sopho- Prize-day exercif'es. In commending .. ·s. s. Tenacity' is the most ab- John Moflett; Daniel Flinn tapped more star of the tennis team and the students who had won awards sorbing and interesting play I have James Rotunda: Edward Hutlon is gradually regaining last year's he re!I'inr!ed them that \it is the ever seen,\ he said. \We fully real· tapped Ralph Semerad; William form ln his play with the netmen duty of the educatetl men in the ize that a play is haidly at its best Kazmiet·c;.ak tapped Austin Fox; this year. Moffet is on the Junior counhy to demonstratP that they during the last rush of rehearsals, Hoben Oppenheim tapped Cha !lees Prom Committee and is a member have a tight to their title by actual- but to do the Mountebanks justice, Dain; Harry Parker tappPd Dun- of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. ly doing a little thinking,\ we have never seen a better work- can McNab; Alexandl:'r Tu1>ner tap- He lives in Schenectady. In spealdng of the \challenge to out. everything conside1ed. ped William Waldron. Dtmea:a McNab, member of the intelligence\ Dr. Coffin reviewed \The sets, to dispose of the phy- The exercises which had opened Beta 'rheta Pi fraternity, plays on the history of intellectual thinking sical part of the p10duction, were WJth a PI ocession into the chapel the varsity lacrosse team. He play- a:nd urged upon the students the quite a novelty for the Mounte- continued as the results of the ed wit hthe sticltmen last year, and taslt of accepting their <luty as edu- banks. For once we were actually· Student Council and Senior Class has been on the varsity football cated men. He also defined what able, without the use of excessive elections we1e announced. The Ira- squad for two years. McNab is the good tPacher is and what his imagination to determine the locale ditional Alouette Songs were led by editOi'·ln·chlef of the 1935· Garnet responsibilities are. and utility of the scenery, and we Erwin Rockwell and James HGran. and a member of the Publication Dr. Edward Ellery, acting presi- must confess that the drinking bar Daniel Flinn, president of the Board. He has been on the Student dent. presided, and Dean Charles F. was work of art. The bottles hB;d a graduating class read a charge to Council for two years. McNab's F. Ga·ris awatded seventeen prizes very pleasmg smell, that mtght the members of the two new coun- home Is In Schenectady. and ten new scholarships to the have been duplicated in the breath cils and Mr. Nelson Nitchman ad- James RotwuJa., whose home is in students. Sidney David Markman of of the property manager, but let dressed the whole Student Body. Schenectady, Is a neutral. He play- Brooklyn won three prizes and ~hat puss, lPst we be ll;ccused of The exet·cis~s clos<'d with thP ed the bankfield on the football team Thomas J. Crowley of Schenectady Jealousy. The newspapers advances singin<> of the Alma Mater. · d 1 1 ] h 1 have not mformed us whether the \' for two \ears and played that posi- won a prtze an a aw sc 100 sc o - J h' set is actually 'essentialistic', but --- -o - tion on his freshman team in 1931. az·s 1p. H l lth th 't b c w· Balle c we hope not; Jennings and B r a d l e y e also p ays w e vars1 Y ase- ory ms · Y up Steamshtp l'ostt>rs Colorful , , ch•l ball squad and the varsity basket- George R. Cory, jr., of Oradell, \The posters of the steamship F1ght Ftre at Psi ball squad. N. J .. who had, as editor of the Con- Jines provided perhaps the most col- Ralph Semerad has been termed cordiensis, conducted a vigorous orful part of the production, with as Union's quadruple threat on the campaign for many reforms in both the exception of the fireman's shirt football team. He is by fat· the col- faculty and student activities, was worn by Hidoux. Abraham Smith, lege's outstanding athlete, playing awarded the BailPy cup for \having in the first act. There was also a equally- well in basketball and base- rendered the college the greatPst backdrop with some rather jaun- •ball as in football. He .has been on service.\ diced sailing-ships and a discour- the Student Council since its begin- Dr. Coffin said much of our aged lighthouse, and a distinctive ning and was secretary of the stu- trouble today a:rises from the fact touch was added by the words dent body in his sophomore year. that much of our intelligence has which augmented the pictuzed Semerad is president of the junior not been properly disciplined. What scene, 'Pinx.it S. D. Marlunan, May class and is a member of the Delta is needed is the observance of facts, 1934.' We thought this a particular Upsilon fraternity. His home is in and the regulation of conduct in daring effect, and one of which the Schenectady. accordance with them. Mountebanks may well be proud. William Waldron played with the. \The world which once suffered· The cast was admirably chosen. varsity' football team in his sopho- from excess of cruelty now suffers Abraham Smith as Hidoux was su- more year and has been a member from an excess .of sentimentality perbly drunk, but it was probably of the varsity track team for two and muddy thinking\ which has: animal spirits. His philosophy was years. In his freshman year he produced a new kind of cruelty. a bit marred by the fact that he played with his class ff?otball team one which is ca·used by \those too looked as if he enjoyPd life in spite and basketball team. He has been soft-minded to think matters of it, but naturally that is not for on the Student Council since his through for themselves\. This ex- us to judge. freshman year and for the second cess. of emotional thinlting has Bastien and Segard time was chosen to be the member \drowned the wox·ld in blood, put \The two side lticlts, Bastien and Two fearless firefighters, Ned Bradley and Tom Jennings saved the Chi Psi Lodge from complete ruin at three o'cloclt Thu1·sday morning. Jennings was awakened by the sound of flames near him and upon looking out of the win- dow he saw the awning which adorned the porch in a mass of flames. Rushing to Bradley's room he told him of the conflagration and between the two, with the aid of two fire extinguishers which are kept on hand they managed t1> put the fire out The awning was half burned and thereby rendered useless. The fra- ternity had purchased a new glider for the .porch the day before and that too was ruined. The fire was of unltnown origin. ----o---- EYE FOR AN EYE of his board to carry over to the incompetents in office and allowed Segard, or Arthur Firth and George new Student Council. ire is a mem- them to ruin the lives of others\. Haskell, were also good. Of course ber of the Tax Committee which These veils of emotionalism must they changed places at limes, es- was established by the Student be stl'iped away, he said, foe only pecially when the first forgot his A man-sized black camera, Councid to consider budget of all discipline can give us real intellec- lines and the second became dom- stretching out seven feet horizon- student activity. Waldron is a tual freedom. ineering, but it all evened out in tally, Is being used by University of member of the Alpha Delta Phi fra- . \We do not educate people to the end. The two divided their work Minnesota psychologists to record ternity- and a resident of Schenec- mal[e them swallow a. ready made rather neatly, for whiie Segard was the speed and movement of tire eye tady. (Continued on Page 10) <Ccmtinued on Page 5) as it reads the printed page. t: Member of Princeton Faculty And Widely Known A nthor- ity on Money and Tariff For the second time, Dr. F:r·ank W. Fetter, internationally .Jtnown authority on money and tariff. will serve as chief examiner of t.he can· dictates for honors in econo01lcs, on Monday, May 14, it was annou.nced today by Dr. William W. Bennett, chairman of the department of eco- nomics. Dr. Fetter has been on the economics faculty of Princeton since 1924, and has served on the I\:emmerer commission of financial advisers to the governments of Chile, Poland, Ecuador, Boll via and China. The bringing in of Dr. Fetter as chief examiner is a continuation of the policy adopted last year !>f us- ing an outside examiner ra.ther than having the professor·H, who have supervised the worlt of the candidates, also serve ns thPir ex- aminers. Selections At End of 2nd YE>m· Honor candidates are selected at the end of the sophomore year fru.m the applicants who have shown p1·omise and ability to do indepen· dent work. In theii• junior year one of the courses is a readLng and seminar course in which tlley are given training in certain asjlects of the field they are interested in and which are not included in the ngu· Jar courses offered in economics. The candidates are also given train- ing in research methods and the preparation of reports. In the senior year ea.ch candi- date selects a special field f1>r in- tensive study and prepares .at hesis upon :mme topic included in that field. The comprehensive examination is composed of three pa1ts; .part one is a written examination cover- ing the field of economics In gen- eral; part two is a written examina- tion in the candidates special field; and part three is the oml exami- nation, which will take pla.<ee Mon· day. In addition to Dr. Fetter the ex- amining committee is composed of Professors Joseph D. D()ty, Philip Stanley and Dr. Bennett. Dr. ·Earl E. Cummins, who supervised the worlt of the candidates for hQnors will not participate in giving the examinations. There will be three candidates ex- amined for honors on Monday. tt·easurer, a member of the Junior Prom committee, and of the Hale Club, and president of the French Club. He has maintained a first grade average, holds a General Scholarship, and was awarded tile Cornelia Veeder scholarship Wednesday. He is Managing Editor of The Concordiensis, Associate Editor of The Ga1·net, and a mem- ber of the News Bureau. James Loomis comes from Hart- ford, Conn., and is a member of Alpha Delta Phi fraternity. He played football and baseball in his freshman year, and has been on the varsity nine two years, earning his letter as alternate pitcher and left fielder. He has also earned a minor letter as assistant manager of the hockey team, and is the manager for next year. He earned a second g:ade average this year, placing htm on the Dean's List. Robert North is a member of Delta Upsilon fraternity and lives in Walton. He is a first grade stu- dent, holds the Alexander scholar- ship, and won the Van Orden Prize in his freshman year. He is president of his class, was on the Student Council in both his fresh- man and sophomore years, and is the only sophomore elPcted to the Hale Club. He is on the Junior Board of The Concordiensis, is a member of the Outing Club and is the autho1· of several boolts on tra- vel. He earned a minor letter in cross country running last season. Charles U.rull comes from Lyn- broolt, N. Y., and is affiliated with the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. He was quarterback on the freshman f<;>otball team last year and played rtght end on the varsity this sea- son, and he is a member of the track team. He has been on the Dean's list several times this year. Guy . Griswold, a resident of Coatesville, Pennsylvania and a member of the Phi Gamma Delta frater·nity, was elected captain of the varsity swimming team for next year and is an alternate pitcher and left fielder on the nine. He is active in intramural tennis and won his numerals with the freshmen basketball team last year. He sang with the Glee Club as a freshman. Joseph Milano lives in Schenec- tady and is a member of Delta Upsilon. He played freshmen foot- ball last seaso nand was fullback with the varsity this year. He jumps center for the basketball team and throws the discus and shot for the track team, He was class treasurer this year. Donald Llffiton, who comes from Albany and is affiliated with Phi Delta Theta, was president of the Class of '37, and plays with the freshmen lacrosse team. James Doyle, a member of Al- pha Delta Phi, and a residellt of Springfield, Massachusetts, plays with the freshmen lacrosse team. Robert Everest is a member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity and lives in Gloversville. He ran with the freshmen cross country team.

i. Fonr FARRAGO ]).Jany times tlw t>ditoz s of The Concozdiensis ha\;e seen fit to c~nso1 'Fatt ugu' lin au .. ,. Juhuny Hubet b \Hinted tu publi:;h 6Uiltt• yuututiot. which ht• f<·llllld in Habelai~ or some oth- er of th•• ant:it•nt wz ite\· Aside from that Wt' bt·lien· that John·,; column has IJpen as popular a~ was pxpected, if not tnutP su. The J!ull gave 'Fuzrago· a htgh. zatin~. but IHJt <]Uitt• as high as one of the other columns which ha,; given the uuthur of the la.tter vent to fed quite pt uud of himself. John tlues a gt t>at t.leal of t •·aC:inp; and th<'tefot e has been able to make his eolumn heavy a.t all times to mePt the re- <]Ul'sts of students who au~ interested in th<· lilt•tatuze of out fath<•ls. The author of 'Fm raga' is a tennis playez· of no mean ability. Mo~t ·people who watch him think that he play~ \- fine game but J uhn is fz om Missouz i and can't be convinced that such is the case: Until he met the captain of the Williams team one week ago he was und£'feated in singles compt·tition. \Ve arc not going to say hen• how many matches he had played pdor to his Waterloo, for that JOHN P. ROBERTS might be out of piaCl'. Sonw peopl€' might thin!( that John was wasting his talent by w1iting for a newspaper. NP\'f'l' ft•in of that brf'ause John cnn;.;Nved a good sl:att• 11f hi;; nl>zlity for T'ht• Idol. RANDOM OBSE.RVA TIONS Hitlnt·y l>u viJ Matlmwn has filled his column with many philosophical tu alles at whzch lte Is ever so capable. 'i:>lt!' has bPamed with ·PI ide :-\IDNEY D. MARI{MAN £'VH ;;inc~ the z e;;ults of T'he Concordien- sis poll havt• bPen announC'ed for it was his c•olumn whi<'h pt oved to be mcst wit!Ply :Pad by the students by virtue of a slim margin ovet ·Farrago' and 'Mid- dlesex Note~.' The fact that Sid's col- umn pt oved popular was becatllle he in-. troduced a new style of writing to the pageoo of this newspaper. Only once did Sid fall down on the j.:;b and that was thmugh no fault oi hiti own. It happened a few weeks agt when the column he submitted v;as t.leemed too ftPrce by the editors wh< thought it had the earmarks of the be- ginning of a. race riot. Sid, however, did not take offense at the fact that his column was not published and continued to wt ite and hand his copy in promptly for each 1<~1 iduy issue. Sidney admits himself that he 'is not a born athlete. £n a ncent softbuH game in which he participated he missed mot·e than he caught but got a big kick out of the con test. . On(' of the few stuti('ntoo who major in the classics' Sid has taken such an intere:;t in hi;; :>tudies that he plans to continue the study of Greek and Latin in graduate school after he receives his diploma next month Can unyunP Pv<•t· forget him for the part he pla~·ed 'in tllP Mounte- hunl>><' prot! UP! ion of Eugene O'Neill's \The Hairy Ape?\ .. MIDDLESEX NOTES 'The objeC't of much scorn fzom the engineering students has bC'en the wtt ty wz itt•!' uf 'Mitldle\ex Notes.' Paul Wassrnansdoz f, editor-in- chief uf th<' I dul, bP~an Wliting about mill-winter to fill a spac€' which was alway~ haHi for !SHU<' edt tot~ to fill on the edilmial page. He developed his col- umn into one full of satite which has bPen appreeiated by the residents of MiddlP section in South College, from wh€'ncP th(' column dt'rlvl's its name. Paul's escapadP with the engineeting ~t udent,; h€'gan by a misintel pretation of what he said in daily assembly shortly aftn spring rPcP:-s. HowPver, all is quiet on t hP not thPt n front and we feel that thP one;; who tDolt offen~P at him have f'it hez· ;;ub,;ided or Pl;;e given up the at- tack. Paul has wt ittl'n well since his fresh- man :;ear and has always been a schol- iuly stud('nt. He ~t•cdved the double dis- tinction this year of Phi Beta Kappa menzbe1 ship and 1 preiving a stage ap- pointment for the 1934 Commencement. ln 1933 he played on the golf team and PAUL WA.SSMANSDORl•' r PC£'ived. the var:oity award for paz tici- putin~ in a majo1 ity of the contests. Also, Paul is a bit of a pugnacious man, having won the lightweight boxing championship of the cdlege 111 hi~ i<ophomoz l' y<•nr. We appreciate the fact that he has been brealtlng in sonw under- classmen to the style of writing which he employll so that his cclumn may live on in The Concordiensis. E PLURIBUS UNUM Wr·iHng und.cr the puedonym of E. P. U., Leslie Long has uncovf'red mme 'news behind the news' than any other columnist which The Con- LESUE R. l,ONG cordiensis has boasted in recent years. He has interminglf'd vigorous c1 iticism of the policies of the college with a num- ber of witticisms which have constituted what the editors of this paper have b<en searching for in recent years. When the poll which The Concmdien· sis held in daily assembly tecently re- vealed that students desired a gossip column 'Les' stepped in and furnished just what the editors at that time thought was wanted. Lil(e all columnists he had had an audience as well as some readers distinctly opposed to his style of writing. Not only did 'Les' use his column as a medium of criticism ,as every student !mows. He made the long-to-be 1 emem- bered speech in daily assembly a few weeks ago in which he flailed many edu- cational polieiE>s whic-h exist in America today. 'Les' has been one of the leaders in the movemE>nt of student criticism which has been welcomed by the admin- istzation of the C{)llege during the past year. 'Les' has won the rP>'pect of many students and members of the facul- ty for hiR ability to expr·ess himself. HP won scholastic distinction by tN'Piving a stage appointment for the 1934 commPncement and also by being elected to Phi Beta. Kappa. '!'he Concor<lienHil\' hopes to continue its other columns, 'Easy On T'hP Eyt>H' and 'Oh I HPart.l' and for that reason we shall not reveal here who writes them: THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY'll, 1934 PRUM WIKAND II I . 'Try and find something to wr.ap . QU:ESTIQN BQX .. ::.cellophane ill.( Yo\]rs, The Chief. * * By INCHWEi.L :Dear Students in General: Dear Chief: Once mo~e glorious spring had unconscious built of the frosh <he come to old Siwa,;h's campus, and had passed out meanwhile) \but I am here in Schenectady for one I am a I'ocal bOY tpat would lil~e the students were all afiultter~ Prof. how d:o you expect me to dance purpose, to do some 1esea1ch -..,ork . to enter Union in the fall, but I am Smythe, D. S. C., was staggering with this?\ Marywel turned, punch-. on Union Stt eet. No, no; not that! woz ried about one thing. :bo you :~cHJS:> the greenswaz·d, laden down ed her in the nose, and slatted for I have been .;ent to study all the suppcGe those wild-eyed. shaggy, with two ltegs of br·ew, when he the shower room, where he found· fl.r.e engines that 1 un .up .and- down hait ed, individuals ~een walking tan into good old Ftancis Marywel. things popping. the hill, noting the diffezent reac- :nound the campus aze zeally dan- 'Gonna de beeg dance,\ cl'ied Prof. Some jolter had run beer through Hons of those that do use File geiOus? Smythe. \Mo uh cnt fnd muh the showers, and the boys were Chief, and those that do not. So- tfth,\ Ma:rywel gasped. \What's gathered atound in their rubber o-0-'()-o-o,ln response to the plels of this, Maz·ywel, yuh lost your teeth tuxedos making the most of H. ''Hi .. Jf{)Ut· editor who could never have in another brawl, hey keed?\ Dalton,\ Mazywel gasped between sold a copy without this ·coiQ.mn, (he told me so himself or I would. Our old readers will remember gulps, \let's get out of here ·and go not have said it because at heart. that Fr:>ncis lost his teeth in a beer upstairs and polish apples with the you know I am modest) I am an-. duel Freshman year, but had or- faculty.\ Dalton rose from the fl.om· · h d' sweling some lettexs that have. de1:ed another set from Montg·omery wtt tfficulty, little sqspecting that t h h d h come o me since my· anival in this Ward which had ptoved a bit large e a cont1•acted ·at letes foot in t own, f):'om Union bqys who have fOl' hi mand which consequently his eyebrows; and arm in arm the f . .seen me st:mding by the blue gate. . fell out at the funniest times. But. two uends went up to the gayety ('Dhe other individual with me is to go on with the story- of the .prom. It was now three A. M, ·n&t Grey hem, but merely your edi- \Wat about de beeg game Satur- and Dalton suggested going to the tor who liken th e-engine,'l.) I would iay, what about de prum, what Gay Goose for the rest of the evt)- .much pi'l~fer to come in and talk 1bout de leetle-\ Prof Smythe ning. It was a merry crew who with you all, or perha'lYB ·even meet paused for breath, sat down on the packed themselves into Francis' car any intmesled senio1s in Silliman grass, and proceeded b> tap a lteg. and left the prom in a cloud of dust. Hall, ·but the efficiency of your Pulling a spigot and two glasses The big car roared' down the Ild police fot•ce, second to none, pre- from his pocket, he turned to Mary- Mill Road, and Marywel, with the vents my getting past the e:ate. \W.ll stub o fa reefer between his teeth, A - wei. 1 you pour, Francis,\ he .shaved the throttle down to the last nyway, come out and oee me ,;round out in his best Oxford · sometime. The letters follow. !Iowa) dialect. notch. \Let's get off this road,\ This being done, they both pro- yelled Dalton ?-S he wiped a junebug * * * ceeded to drink heartily, .when up. out of his eye. \Done replied Dear Chief: came Inca, Marywel's steady babe Marywel, and he swung the wheels How can a senior best bent the (as our old readers will recall). \Oh sharply to the right. With a ter- depres~ion and make a foztune dut·- Francis,\ she cried 1 \I found your rifle crash the iron demon wiped ing these hard times. teeth.\ Marywel took them grate- asiile a highway fence and turned: \Prospective Job-seeker\ \Anxious.'' !Contlnut>d on page 9> CREPE SOLE SHOES . $1.25 . BALLS, 4 for a Dollar RA·CQUETS, AU P~ices Golf Equipment ALLIN'G RUBBER CO. 254 STATE ST. fully and Put them On' \Now· that over and over, finally settling bot-· D t · th E th' · ear \Pmspective Job-seeket·:\ I can talk,\ he sputtered, \where om up m e swamp. very- 1ng =;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;';~~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;~: the hell were they?\ \Oh I swal- was silent, but finally Marywel, who 1' 1 lowed them last night,\ Inca coyly mastered every situation instantly, replied, \and if it hadn't been for said, \Well here we are.\ 'They {hat old gin you gave me I'd never pioceeded to extticate themselvs f d 0 h . from th wreckage amid the popping have oun them.\ n earmg this of corks from the home bt·ew which . P1·of. Smythe rose, and taking the Francis always carried in the trm1k.' · remaining keg <for the ot):ler was by this time empty) strode once \All is not lost,\ cried Marywel .as mote across the campus on his he dragged a keg from underneath 'mees. Tomorrow is prom, he the wreckea car, meanwhile pulling thought. We shall see! glasses and spigot from his pocket. The big night at last! Old Siwash \Sit down, everybody. The eve- was aglow with red lanterns which ning's young yet.\ the boys had stolen and presented to the Dean. In the gym the black and white red-hot rhythmn sere- naders were blowing the very dust out of their harmonicas, and two ~ouples were dancing in the flicker• ing light of the candles. The place was tastefully decorated to resem- ble the Black Forest, and many of the coeds werE) hanging from the limbs of the artificial trees. Gla- mour filled the hall, and you could smell it a bloclt away. With a lusty roar ,Marywel skid- ded to a stop before the entrance in his Isotta, which he had bought out of gradt made selling chapel seats to freshmen. \Here I am, boys,\ Inca cried as she climbed onto the hood. A freshman apptoached clutching his program and a five dollar bill in one hand. \Go 'way, piker\ Inca spat at him. \Give the kid a break,\ whispered Marywel, ~s he reached for the bill, \while I go down to the showers and have a talk with Jack Dalton.\ \All dght,\ mutter e>d Inca as she picked up the Frost & Reynolds PRINTERS Exclusive Representatives for SHAW-WALKER \Built Lil•<\ a SkyscrapPt'\ OFFICE EQUIPMENT Indexing File Folders and Supplies 430 SMITH STREI<:T Phone 2-7871 PROMENADE HERE AFTER THE DANCES STARRING BULLETS Entertainer Deluxe with the Hottest Band in Town TASTY SANDWICHES and BETTER BEVERAGES BEACON GRILL - 756 ALBANY STREET PETER'S And Just What Does That Name Imply? pure tempting foods - Enjoyable and pleasant atmosphere fhoughtful, intelligent service Entirely as PETER'S car serve Rivaled by NONE sanitary and modern kitchen OUR INVITATION INCLUDES YOU Something new ilt Peter's that you don't find anywhere else in Sch€'nectady-Air Conditioning service for the comfort of our patrons. Peter's REST AU RANT AND SODA FOUNTAIN 426 STATE STREET THE TUCK SHOP ./ f (Eastern Avenue) IS THE ,BEST PLACE Free-Swin.g The latest sport model in Palm Beach suits has just arrived-with belted back and inverted pleats at the sides; trousers full cut and mighty smart. J.os. Nusbaum 447-451 STATE ST. Seb Inv] Cor LargE Col \01 Wi Edito Pul Emb high s have b ito rial and to the m Thurs< 17. Invi1 sixty s ing fl ceivGJd, .studen work· The vi ·ity to next i• ods of Of J up-to-e faclliti spring tables, are si: newsp ered 1 venien Men iness : cuss their 1 on the Seven pared compl sheet, quesU Moll Reh forcec third sions in mo due j consic er en• Ma< prese1 ure 01 the e' dress seemE thing1 of he his a appro \Macl a me pair thee Hid off erE unde1 tely 1 tiful Mad a bea~ to se both ThE was' It is thing male large ganiz to ar ness was 1 exper Pe1 form: given the t of U to pc He h makE and: quite playE as h the' ] v1l1 ha] YOl an hu; m~ at

i Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY. 11, 1934 I~ ' Tty and find .something to w:rap • QUESTION BQX, •. cellophane in.(* Yours, __ The Chief. * I PRUM WIKAND MEET THE COLUMNISTS By INCHWELL Dear Studeh{s in General: . Dear Chief: Once more glor·ious spring had unconscious bulk of the frosh (he FARRAGO come to old Siwash's <'amp us, and had pa!'lsed out mean while l \but I am here in Schenectady for one . I n;m a local boy tpa t would like the students were all aflullter. Prof. how do you expect me to dance purpose, to do some reseatch ·,vorlt to enter Union in the fall, bllt I arn Smythe, D. s. c., was st!lggering with this?\ Mar~·wel turned, puneh- on Union Street. No,. no, not that! wo11'ied a:bhout one t-hing. Do you ~ctos8 the gre~nswanl, laden down ed her in the nose, and started for I have been ·lent to study all the suppcLJe t ose wild-eyed, shaggy- with two kegs of brew, when he the shower room, where he found· the engines that tun up and- down haized, individuals <een walking Manv limPs Uw t•ditors of The Concmdiensis have Ref'n fit to C'Pnsot 'Fu11 a~•> lll'cUU~•· Johnny Hubt•!l:; \\anted to pubibh ;;onn· quututiot. whieh ht• found in Rabelais or some oth- t'r of tht' andt•nt writets. A~ide from that Wt· lwlievt• that Juhu's column has bt>en as popular a,; wati Pxpected, if not mol\ so. The poll gave · Fanago' a !ugh· . 1 a tin~. Lut nut ljUi!t• as high a,; unt· of the other columns which has gi\en the author of the la.ttet· vent to fed quite JH oud of himself. <an Into good old Ftancis M.arywel. things popping. , the hill, noting the (!iffezent reac- :uound the campus ate really dan- . · ti. ons of those that do use Ft't A get ous? 'Gonna de beeg dance,\ cz led Prof. Some J'oker hnd run beer thwugh ' · Chief, and those ·t·ha-t do not. So- \.i\ Smythe. \Mo -uh cnt fnd muh the ~bowers, and the .boys were tfth,\ Marywel gasped. \What's gathered azound in their rubber .o~o-o-o-o, in IespOI\Se to the ple:1s of 1Cont!nut>u on page 9) this, Mazywt>l, yuh lost your teeth tuxedos maldng the most of it. \Hi. your editor Who could .never have John does a gneat deal of 1 ending and lh<'l efot P has been able to make his eulumn heavy a•t all times to mePt the re- quests of students who ate inteletited in thl' htetaturc of uuz futhet:o. The author of 'Jo'uaago' is a tennis player of no mean ability. Mo,;t people who wutell him think that he plays '- fine game but John is fr otn Mi~~ou1 i and can't bl' convinced that such is the case. Untzl he met the captain of the Williams team one wee!{ ag1> he was undefeated in singles cumpt'li tion. \Vc az·e nut going to say here how many match<>s he had. playL•d prior to his Waterloo, for that might be out uf plurc. JOHN P, ROBERTS Sonw prople might think that John was wasting his talent by writing fm· a twwspapPr. Nrvcr· fpar of that bc<'nusc John con:lPrVPd a good ~hut'' of his ahilit·y fDl' Tlw Idol. RANDOM OBSERVATIONS in another brawl, hey keed?\ Dalton,\ Matywel gasped between, sold a copy without this. column, 0 ld d 'II b. e:ulps, \let's get out of 1 1 ~ 1 -e ·an· d go. (he told me so himself or I would · ur o . rea ers WI remem er ~ ~· t h · F Up ~taz'r·s and polt'sll app·Jes w 1 'th .t.l 1 e ·no ave sa·id it because at lleatt thut • r!'ncis lost his teeth h1 a beer ~ . · k · · d l F h faculty. \ Dalton rose fr·om the floor· you · tww I am modest.) I am an- ue res man year, but had or-· · tiered another set from Montgomery with difficulty, little suspecting that sweung some lettets that have \\ d h' l h d d . he had contt·acted athletes foot t'n • come to me sin-ce my ar1ivai in this .vv.ar w tc 1 a _pwve a bit large t f u · I · 1 h hz's eyebrows, and· az·m· .t'n at•m tl1e· own, rom hiOn boys who have. for u maud w lie consequently s t d · fell out at the funniest times. But two fziends went up to the gayety' een me s :m mg by the blue gate. ('Dhe other individual with me is to go on with the story- of the .prom. It was now tht ee A. M, .. not ·Grey hem, but merely your edi-. \Wat about de beeg game Satur- and Dalton suggested going to the tor who likeo fite-engines.) I would :lay, what about de prum, what Gay Goose for the rest of the eve- much -prefer to come in and tallt :~.bout de leetle-\ Prof Smythe · nlng. It was a merry crew who with yo 11 h t P acked themselves into Francis' car · · · u a • or per a-ps even mee paused for breath, sat down on the any Intel ested seniozs in Silliman grass, and -proceeded to tap a lteg. and left the prom in a cloud of dust. Hall, ·but the efficiency of your Pulling a spigot and two glasses The big car roared down the Ild pollee force, second to none, pre- from his p· ocket, he turned to Mary- Mill Road, and Marywel, with the vents my g tt' t \h t stub o fa reefer between his teeth,· · e lng pas • e ga e. we!. \Will you pour, Francis,\ he Anyway, come out and dee me ground out in his best O;xford shoved the throttle down to the last sometime. · The lette1•s follow. (Iowa) dialect. notch. \Let's get off this road,\' This being done, they both pro- yelled Dalton l;l.S he wiped a junebug ceeded to drink heartily, .when up out of his eye. \Done replied came Inca, :M:arywel's steady babe Marywel, and he swung the wheels <as our old readers will recall). \Oh sharply to the right. With a ter- \ Dear Chief: How can a senior best beat the depression and make a fo1 tune dur- ing these hard timea. . Francis,\ she cried, \I found your rific cz•ash the iron demon wiped teeth.\ Marywel took them grate- aside a highway fence and turned. fully and put them on. \Now that over and over, finally settling bot- Sidn .. v David l\la1lm1an hus filit•d his colunm with many phi!0sophical . I can talk,\ he sputtered, \where tom up in the swamp. Everything tizat!es ·al which he is ever so ca.puble. 'Sid' has bt>amed with p1ide. the hell were they?\ \Oh I swal- was silent, but finally Marywel, who \Prospective Job-seel{er\ Dear \Prospective Jo-b-seeller:\ Tennis Equipment CREPE SOLE SHOES . $1.25 . BALLS, 4 for a Dollar RACQUETS, All Prices Golf Equipment ALLING RUBBER CO. 254 STATE ST • PVPr sincp th' 1 esults of Th!' Concordien- lowed them last night,\ Inca coyly mastered every situation instantly, ><is poll havP bPPn announred for it was 1·ep!ied, ·~and If it hadn't been for said, \Well here we are.\ They his <'nlumn whi<'h f>t ovPd to bf' mcst that old gin you gave me I'd never proceeded to extricate themselvs witl<'ly read by the 'tudents by V·irtue of have found them.\ On hearing this from th wreckage amid the popping THE TUCK SHOP of corks from the home bt·ew which a slim margin over ·f:<'arrago· and 'Mid-- Pl'Of. Smythe rose, and taking the Francis always carried in the trunk. · dlesex Note;;.' The fact that Sid's col· remaining keg (for the other was umn proved popular was because he in-. by this time empty) strode once \AU is n·ot lost,\ cried Marywel as traduced a new stylE' of writing to the more across the campus on his he dragged a keg fr·om underneath pages of this newspaper. 'mees. Tomorrow is prom, he the wrecketl car, meanwhile pulling Only once did Sid fall down on the thought. We shall see! glasses and spig·ot from his poclcet. j~b and that was through no fault o1 The big night at last! Old Siwash \Sit down, everybody. The eve- hiti own. It happened a few weeks agt. was aglow with red lanterns which ning's young yet.\ (Eastern Avenue) IS THE BEST PLACE TO TAKE when the column he submitted was. the boys had stolen and presented deemed too f1erce by the editors whc to the Dean. In the gym the black thought it had the earmarks of the be- and white red-hot rhythmn sere- ginning of a race riot. Sid, however, did naders were ·blowing the very dust not talie offense at the fact that his out of their harmonicas, and two column was not published and continued ~ouples were dancing in the flicker- to wt ite and hand hi:~ copy in promptly ing light of the candles. The place for each I:<'r iduy issue. . . was tastefully decorated to resem- SidnPy admits him:~elf that he is not ·ble the Black Forest, and many of a born athl£'te. In a recent softball game the coeds were hanging from the in which he par·tieipa.ted he missed more limbs of the artificial trees. Gla- than he caught but got a big kick out mour filled the hall, and you could 1::::::~~~~~7:;] ~~~~~=:::~T~H~E=~G=I R:::L=~====~=~ :::::::::m::m::::::::m::m:::m::::mmH:mm:::::::::m::: SIDNEY D. MARKMAN of the contest. . smell it a block away. Frost & Reynolds On£' of thP few ~tudent~ who major in the clastiic~· Sid ha:; taken such With a lusty roar ,Marywel skid- PRINTERS Exclusive Representatives for SHAW-WALKER \Built I.ilt~' a Sl•yscrape.r\ OFFICE EQUIPMENT Indexing an interPst in his studies that he plans to continue the study of Greek ded to a stop before the entrance in and La.tin in graduate school after he receives his diploma next month his Isotta, which he had bought out Can anyone t•vt•r for g~t him for the part he played in thP Mounte- ,)f gradt made selling chapel seats bani>~' p1 odut'! ion of EugenP O'Neill's \The Hairy Ape?\ to freshmen. \}!ere I am, boys,\ Inca cried as she climbed onto the hood. A freshman approached MIDDLESEX NOTES clutching his program and a five dollar bill in one hand. \Go 'way, piker\ Inca spat at him. \Give the File Foldez·s and Supplies ThP objt>P.t of muC'h scorn flom the engineering stud~nts tiH' W<lly wult•r of 'Middle><<'X Notes.' Paul Wa;;smansdotf, has brE'n kid a break,\ whispered Marywel, editor-in- :ts he reached for the bill, \while I go down to the showers and have a tal11 with Jack Dalton.'' \All r-ight,\ mutterPd Inca as she pit>kf'd up thE' 430 SMITH STREF.T Phone 2-7871 dtif'f of th<> Idol. bt'gan writing about mid-wintet· to fill a \pact> which was always hard for loSU<' t>ditot>< to fill on the Pditorial page. He developed his col- umn into one full of satire which has ilP<'l1 appreciated by the residents of Middlt> section in South College, from wht>ncP thp column <it> II ve:c• its name. Paul's L•scapadt• with the enginf'ering 'tu<i••nts bPgan by a misinterpretation of what he sa1d in daily assembly shortly aftPr spring rPct·:-s. However, all is quiet on thP northf'ln front and we feel that thP one:-; who tool\ offen~e at him have Pither· subsided ot· eJ:;p given up the at- tack. I Paul has wt ittl'll well sincE' his fresh- man yPar and hHs always been a schol- j urly st udl'nt. He tPePi\'ed the doublP dis- tinction this yt·ar uf Phi Beta Kappa I membC't Bhip and 1 eceiving a stage ap- I' pointment for thP 1934 Commencement. In 1933 hP played on the golf team and PAUL WASAMANSDORl'' 1 c·ct>ived the vat ;;ity uwur·d for pa.rtici- PROMENADE HERE AFTER THE DANCES STARRING BULLETS Entertainer Deluxe with the Hottest Band in Town TASTY SANDWICHES and BETTER BEVERAGES BEACON GRILL 756 ALBANY STREET pating in a majoJity of the contests. Also, Paul is a bit of a pugnacious I tnan, liaving won the lightweight boxing ehampionship of the cdlege ·~;;;~;;~;;· ;-;-;--;·~;--·-;··-;--;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;;;;;;~;-~-~~;--;-;-;· -;;;;--;;;~~-: Ill his sophomot t' year. ;;; Wt> appH•ciate thP fact that he has bePn brl'aldng in somE' undl'r- cla..s~men to the style of writing which he employs so that his cclumn may live on in The Concordiensis. E PLURIBUS UNUM Writ'ing under the puedonym of E. P. U., Leslie Long has uncov<'red more 'news behind the news· than any other columnist which The Con- LESLIE R. I.ONG cordiensis has boasted in recent years. He has intermingled vigorous c1 iticism of the policies of the college with a num- ber of witticisms which have constituted what the editors of this paper have b< en searching for in recent years. When the poll which The Conc01 dien· sis held in daily assembly 1 ecently 1 e· vealed that students d-esired a gossip column 'Les' stepped in and furnished just what the editors at that time thought was wanted. Like all columnists he had ha.d an audience as well as some readers distinctly opposed to his style of writing. Not only did 'Les' use his column as a medium of ct iticism .as ev<'ry ctudent !mows. He made the long-to-be 1 emPm· bered speech in daily assembly a few weeks ago in which he flailed ma.ny edu- cational polic·ies which exist in Amelica today. 'Les' has been one of the leader~ in the movement of student criticism which has been welcomed by the admin- istration of the college during the past year. 'Lr,.· has won the rr,;pect of many students and members of the facul- ty for his ability to express himself. He won scholastic distinction by 1 PC'Piving a stagE' appointment for the 1934 cornmenrement and also by being elected to Phi Beta Kappa. The Concordiensil'l hopes to continue its other columns, 'Easy On ThP EyPs' nnd 'Oh T Hl'nrd' and for that reason we shall not reveal here who writes tltem. - PETER'S And Just What Does That Name Imply? pure tempting foods - Enjoyable and pleasant atmosphere Jhoughtful, intelligent service Entirely as PETER'S can serve Rivaled by NONE sanitary and modern kitchen OUR INVITATION INCLUDES YOU Something new in Peter's that you don't find anywhere Plse in Schenectady-Air Conditioning service for the comfort of our patrons. Peter's REST AU RANT AND SODA FOUNTAIN 426 STATE STREET Free-Swin.g The latest sport model ih Palm Beaeh suits has just arrived-wi+h belted back and inverted pleats at the sides; iTousers full cut and mighty smarL Jos. Nusbaum 447-451 STATE ST. Sci Irn Co Lar11 C< \( w Edit P1 Ern high have itoria and 1 the 1 Thur. 17 .. Inv sixty il).g : ceiVGl• stud:e work The' ityt{ nex:t ods o Of up-to facili spr!n table: are s news ered venie Me iness cuss their on th Seve1 pare< comr sheet ques1 Mo ReJ force third sions in m due consi er e1 M~ presl UI'e C the ' dres1 seen: thin! of h his appr \Ma1 am' pair the' Hi offe1 unde teiy tiful Mad heav to s both Tl: was It is thin1 male larg• gani to a ness was expe Pe forn give the of t to p He: mali and quit pla;y as 1 the vi Ju; y(] at 1u m at

!: ', 'lll ---------------------- MEET THE COLUMNISTS PRUM WIKAND ----------------------------------------- l)Jl• t·' Illttlt' ;!.lttllt•ll'\\ :---.IJl'lil~: lt:I\l llllt'ttll~t·ttJ\1-· lttill\ ttf tht• lit1·~1l tllt' .\1 • ':\ ' . I ,. '\' \\• f'··. 11 'ill I :···•.\•: \\Ill'.\ .I JIH ,, I·· .. , , ... '. ··-·, ····!.•· ': ::.• • ,'1 FARRAGO ' ,f• ·r t, t·\ I \ 'l\1 • !( I!~ I lil t< · I··· ·, .. :1 r ! •. I·· ,.l ·'' , ... ,,. \'I I •Jl:I:Jil r:.t- I\ •I' I ' I '·· 1: t \t ;: ·, 1• .\ I• !11: ,, ': •r 1· ' l . ·' ; ~ t ' ft.c- It 1 • l ~ Ill !,·',1 I· I\' t.J•· I. J I I'!,.:- • !\ llit' :1, :\'\1·- \l.! I .and : ~ ' •'t'illt' t'll uld ~1\\':t~h'~ t'.tlll!tll~ Hnd had p!tS~Pd out lllt>:t.ll\\.'hllt·l \but .,, , , ~~ , , .,, ~bt· ... lllth·nt~ \\\t'lt' all ailn!tt.PI l'rn.f tunv do you t'XJlt't't' u:t> t•' daiH't' ·' 1 '\ I ~.u~t.llt·' ll ~ l'. I.V:·\-.. ..:t l~!:...:t'llll~ \\lth tlJI...:''\ .:\l:lr~:\\'t•l llliJlt•d. JllllH'h :·' 'I '': HI'~'\ t.l.It· L:lt't'l1:-o\\:ud. l:tt.:t•n dlt\\ll t•ti ht•l Ill tiJt• 11••-.,• :11ltl :--1:\ltt·d tot ',\-.'t1 t'Wtl kt·g~; o1 lHt'W, Wht•ll hP tht• ~hoWt•l lt·•tlfll, \\'llt'lt' ht• htlllld <•ll Jllltt ~·.11ud ttld l<'raill'l:> .\latVWt•l lillll~~:-- PDJl}llli~ '(:dtlll:l l'lt• bt•t·~ dath'P,\ t'l it•d .Ptof. ~tlllll' Jtlkt•l h!·td 1 \lll bt•t•J tii: oUgh :-;niVIIll' ··:.1\ uh <'Ill fnd muh t:l~t• ><llnW•'I>', and til<· ll<>V' W<'IP !HJ;, .. :\l·tl\'\'.'t>l ~~:\:-..jlt>d \\.\'h:tl'!-- l!.llht··lt•d HltH\1\d Ill tt·lt'~l· !llhht'l '·til'\'. ~lat )'\~·d. VU!J itl:·.f VtJUI lt•t•llt l'll\.t•dtl.., IIt.t.l\tll;~ l.IW IIIII ... { tJI' tL ''lJi jn .Ultltlh·.t ln:n~·l. tu•y kt~·t·d·~·· J):•lt.nn.\ :..t:uy\\~<'1 p:t---pl'd hPtWt\Pll 1 . OuJ, 11ld. J·t•·tdt·!..., \Vlll tt>tllt•:nbt'l ,:..:ulp .... \lt·l·:-.. ~~-~ ,,ut nl ht'·: t' :utd gu +}Ltt l•r··n,·J ... lu t lu..; tt•t·th 1 , 1 : 1 ht•t•l tl·p...:t.a.tr-. :rttd )'''l!.h !·IJIJdt·~ wrth tht> I,! 11•'1 1<'1 ,.,ilrnan , ... ,ll. hut !Ltd ., 1 f:u'lllt\' .. !l.tlt<~n ~''\\'' fr on1 till' ll<HJI · lt•tt:d anotht·l ...;t·t.ftuill ~lunt'\tiiJit'l\ with tltftit:lllty, llttlt• :-tl~JlPf'ting that \\':tiLl Whil'll il:td plo\'t•d :1 ltlt l:<q~;, lit' h:lr! <'ollt.lllt'll'd Hll!lt•(t•.; foot in 'til hi rnazHL \VIlich l'Oll~t·tplt·nt.ly h1:-< t>~'t•hlo\\':-., und at Ill in :u n1 thP t•ll our :tt tl1t• funtliP:-t tirnt·~. But two ftu~ud~ \o\t'llt up to tlu• g~tyt>t~ ~(I ~o un with t.hP :-;lllly 11f tht- p·111IIL It wa:-. no\\' Lhtt>t• .~\. :\1, II. \\\'at ah~~ut dt• bt•t•g g:ttn,· SatuJ- and }):tlt'on sug~t·:-.tt•d ~oJng t.u t.ht• {a\', \\'h•:lt :llHJUt dt- Pltllll, \\'hat ti:ty t;no:--;t' ftll tht• IP:-i.1 td' tht• P\'P • IIi' 1 .. ',.,,·, !.•.\ '• ••• li t· 'l;t·' l':t: t' i lh;IUt dt· lt•t·tle PI-.A' }itn\tht· Illng. It \Y<~:> a IIH'II\' l\It>w 'A'ho pau:-~t•d fuJ lnt-:lth, :-.at du\\'1\ un~ t.lH· pat•l\.t>d thl•IIl~t•l\'t•:~ into.FI~lllt'J:-o' c.-a1 ~J·a.a...., ... , and ptot't't'dt·tl tu t:tp a lH•g :HHllt•rt tht• JHUill in a l'lt~Uti Df du:-.t. , !'ulling u -pigot and IWt> gla,-·,,.~ Til·· hi~ <'lll' roai<•tl down th<' lid 'IH>rll 1 11 ~ p .. d<l'l., ht· llllllt'd to. !\!:.IV- !\!ill l~<>a<i, and !\la1yWPI, With tilt' ,~'\I. \\\'Ill )'<HI JHl\11, I' I :llwb;,\ lit•. -t uh \ f:l I <'<'ft•r h••t \'\\II hi\ IPPth >I l' < • 1 •• . ,, I• •[ t ht· \, , . I ..till.., '· 1/J \\ t I ! ' :. ',\,_1. t:(\1!• !t·:·lfl'li \' .... t·' I·• ,.. ,-:., .. fl ,. ; .. t. ,,,,, i.! I• '' .. II .. : .,,,• !• ll •• '!,1' ,. ·''\' I\ ·'.\. 'I'' . !. I\ • .ll·- 1:· t. t' ~ \\' ·''' I,,.,. I· I II .LI '· I: ,•, ,, - \\ , Ill' tit I .. I • ,, -,rnund out in hi:-. bt· ...... t Uxfol d · :-:}hJ\'t•d tht• tluottlP du\\.'n to Lht' last ,; .. ~,. hy WIJlllll: l\wal dialt•t•l :nolt'h. \Lei' g<'l off' thi~ road,\ , 1 , . , . , , ,J ., , , \'d This bl'ing dollt', 1 IH·v h•>t h pl.,_ : Y<'liPd _I >alton us tw wipt•d a JllllL'b.ug ,·t·l'dt•d to dl ink }Jt•:u tliy, Whl•ll ll[l out of Ill,.; t·~'<'. \!)on<' r·pplwd ·an 11 , ln<'a, Maivwl'l',.; ,.;tP:uly babt', !\l:uywt'i, and hL·.,.;wung t!w wiH•<'b • \' .. ur old lt•at!t;l\ will lt'<'Uill, \Oil \h:np!y to tiH· 1.1ght. \\'1l'h a tPl HANDOM OBSERVATIONS l•'l:t.n<'io,\ 'h\ t'li<'cl, \! found yoU! llht• t'Ja,.;h tht• ll~>n <i<'IIIUil wtpt><l I ,.,.t h.\ .Jla.l \'Wl'l took thPlll Ki alP-! <l\l<IL· a highway. l<'lll'P and lUI nt>d :·uny and put tht•m on. \Now tlm.t i O\'l'l and OVl'l', hnally \\~!ling but- '\1'•!''' \\,•;· •r.dt\ J·htlt~··ll)lhll'al [ t•an t~d}<.\ ht• :--plltft•IPtl. \WhPtt•it.olll tl!J 111 thP ~\\':til1}J~ .h..\.'Ptythtng .• !. ,. :--:. .• : t .. ·llnt·d \\1th pttdr· I tht· ht·ll \\'Ptt• tht·v·.l\ \Oh I ~wul ; wa.~ .... th'nt, lJU~ iill~llly .•. ~l.nywt•l, \\'hu I Thl·' ( ···11· ll'dtt•n- 1<1\\'t·tl t.ht•Jll l~l~t rll~!ht.'' fnc·a r'O\'l\' I !11!1:-.ft•ll'll l'\'PIY ~ltuatton in:-:l:lntly. l·\ t •. •·! 11• ·•• ··~·d f.q ,, wa-. . ~·Jdtr•tl. \and if it hadn't ht•l'n f't;t .lid. -·\\.\II. ht•J t' :\''t• :III'.. Tht·) ·:·· .\I '·-~ ' I } .. • Ill• :--t 'lt:l. t· lllrl ~in \'IIU !.!H\'P Jl)t• I'd nt~\'Pt f,lllh\t•t•dt>d \tl (':O...tl H'.Jt\t•' t h •nt_...l'}\':-. , \ ...• · 1 ·~, ,.· nt h~· \ 1 t 11 t. , 1 f .,. 1 , found t.hent.'' Un ht•:-uin~ thb lltllll t:i \\'lt\-l'l~~lgt• anth..l ll:t• pupping .:.J. !.1.·11. 1. •·\•·I l· .. ·:a::•, ·;n.-1 ':\lid [l:,,f Snt\'tlH• to~t·. and takin~· tht· <~! ('UI~\!-> flotll tht· hotnP_b!t'\.\\ whu·h ,;i• ., ...._ ~~. 1 r t.,- : ,. .. ... .s 1 d ..... l'••l 11 • 111 . 1111111 ·• ht•P 1 fot tlH' oth .twa~. Jq·ant·l~ a.l\vays car rit•d 111 tht> t run!{ ~t:l .· .. \·· :.· ;'ti .. L! '\' -• lll'r\tll·t' tt· Ill !J\' ;ht:-; ~llllt' r-ot•rnpt\') :->ttodt~ onct• \All 1!4 not lo~1.'' <'tied ~1aty\\'f•l :•· ~~~\l\l''' t\.• .: \\l.'ta....: ,,, tl~· 1 'tolt' ;u'Jtt:--~ tht\ ~·anlpll:-i tHl hi~ ht• drag~t·d a lil'~ ftOill undl•T.IIt'atll p, .•- .. : ., :t···,\ !'\l\ · \.llPP~. Torll(lJJCJ\>\' i..:: }Jtonl, ht• thP \\\!l•(•kt~d P~.1, Jlll'Hllwhi.lP tnllling t lJ: • q 1 ,: :-:,;,~ ... ~ •!1 \· n (lJJ tl.t t hPllght \Vt• :--hall ;-oPt·~ 1 1 g~a:-.;-;p ... HJld :-;p1,got f1on1 ht..:: ptwiH•1 '' ,.:tl ·'' \\.1 '! J!· l.:h 1111 ~:ni:t tl1 T'ht• hiL: night at last~ Old ~i\\':1:->ll \~11 down, P·\'tiJ~·hody Til~· t~\·1' .,.,,, l' L·l'llt'\ 1 :\ !•\~· \\t•·l\~ ;1·~~ · • .va~ a~lnw wtth Jt·d ltJI1tt~tns \Vhil'h nlng:..; young yt•t. '.'.J.•-·n '',1 •1•,111!tl: ul1l:.1'tt·d \\a tht· hu\-..; h:td ;--;tult·n und ptt\~Pnteu: ::,• '• •· .. ~· : .• r•' I·~ •. , ... ~··:t'··~ \\b. 1 tu t/11\ l>t·an In tht• gynl tht> hluPlt ':.:.:.:;:::;::;::;:;:;:::::;;:;:::;:;;;;;;:;:;;::~:::;::;;::::;:;:·::.::::g~ '•;,.tic L~ :t I. ,, ! !:• :IL,t: ', .. r t'.• ht'-' '111<1 whil.L' I Pd !Jot zllythmn >'Pl'P· m PHONE 2-5666 gi :11! :11. ··! :--!.1·t 1.1 1 \\t'\t'l d·:d• n·1dc•t;-o \\'l'tt• blnwtng tht' VPI\' du~t ::; i!! !:• I >:I \' ~,.. Lwt ti!.JI 1.1,._ .. :It <>f thPII ha.llllOilit·a~. an'd two; m For a Better Cleaning !E . .\!\ill '-\-,: !i•' t·•tt,·J !<t d ;,.nd t··•l1 1 llll:l•t \•l\l)dt· . ..; \\Velt' tlanl'illg\ In thP flic•}{t't m m \','. !. : '.til: !'\ !11 J•l \llll•LlY t\: iight of till' cundlt·~. Th<' pl:l<'t• m Service iE '\' ' \! I· I,.. ''·' '\':tC< ta,td'ully <lreo!Ut<•d t.o I<'>'Plll 'me ystal Cleaners & D ;;; . ,,,1:, \ ' 1' .' ''l. ·I !.t• '· 11•-: bit· tllt' Hlack F<llt'>'\, and nl:lll\' uf m r yers,;, ' r. •Ill . .! Li· .,. In I It· I I,,, l'ftb t!l ~! tllH' tht• l'lll'd ... WPit' hangiiH~ ft ttlll ~ tht· :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::! •.' !JJ \'1./:llh 1:(·' r•:ti'HlJ,.·!t•lllt· Il1 .... ~~·d lllll)t iJtlllJ:-: of thP Hltitkla} ttPt•~. (;}U· ll. \l.\Hh \1.\:-.i ~tun ~,1' I .1\J...,:flt lllrt •.•. t .t !1\_.: td<'l\ oU 1 ; ~lltl\11\ tillt·d thl· h·all, Hnd yuu l'OU}d I Frost & Reynolds . '.\ • I l ••• •l t- ,, . -· !.t•··l • •· 1 :111 ·: ''Jt· 'Jtf~·· -1 , 1 •l:it·ll 1t o.l blo< 1< a\\'UY 1 n .. ,,..,, 111 tL•· ~ ··- ·'1•· ! ..... - f.th•'tl .-twh / \\'1th a lu~ty JuHJ .ll.aly\vt-1 :-:ldd- 1 ~, r•l.tn •,, • t•Il!lllll•· !l11 ·,:,J\ ,,t tirt···l-\! •l1•d ~<I~· .... tc1p ht>fDrt· thP f•ntninc·l~ in dt\t•J fi,. tt•t t>t\t·- t.J- dtJoll•ll-.t tlt ,, rz.onllt i \u-.: J...;ottu, whtl'h }u-· hatl botlght out 1 : .. , ' 1 :•· J•:ut L• 1•;,,\•·d .11 '!, \l .. tiiilt• ~r ~nadt ruadt• :--:t-llin.~ C\hapt·l .st•aL I ll :..; •.. :~! ~ Tht ll 11t\ .\J••·' •n fJt•.-hrnt>n. ''Ht>tt> l' an1, b')\~ ... l1wa 1': l<'d a,; ~h·· dimht'd t>lll.o ·lilt' h,,,H{ .A ftP:-'lunan appto:J('ht·d . ·lutr·hing hi:-; ptogJatll anti a 11\'t' MIDDLESEX NOTES ; .! .. Ilat ht!l 111 ntH• hand. \(jo 'v.'!l\' 1 pli,•·l !nl'a ,;pat at him. \fii1··· 1ti•· ql!: tl•olll ''··· Pll~~11 ,., IlL \'1. l•th ....... .:-.;1 1 •·~ p,llll \\' .. , 1 .l t 1 I'';: l\lll ~t htt>alc'' \Vhi:-:pf\tt•d ~'l:uywt>l. lll<~t• 1;. •! 1 ·d;' .. t 1 t 1 1 \ .... ht• J·t~:..tl'llt'll f\or thP hill, \whitt• .I • .. , .11. \\I ,t:n· .tb t' ;..'(> dcJ\\'ll tn thP :->hD\\'Pt ~anti havt• :1 I til\ \I !I'll ,la.<'l( llaittJII\ \ light,\ tli \Itt t'l Pd l.tH·:t :1:--- -.hp pi.•)<.tod lip t hP 1 II I \\ loll t, ···1,1• • ' ! ... ••tl If·· ·I<\\ I l'•j 'd Ll-· I ··l .,f -.dl!t \\Lit-h I!:L· !'It I ;\;TEltS ··Built Li!it' a ~·H()~<·t·apt··r\ tli<VI<'I<c E<.~l'li':III·:!':T Indt·Xin~ h I•· Fold•'' · t ,, ,. ' .tl.•i : • 't-'1: ! I t' It' lt!t•ll 1 t 1f PROMENADE HERE AFTER THE DANCES \J ,• ~ ! It -I I '':' '1 :...,, l t ! , { ·, ! lt•!..! I'. f l IJf!l r· !d ,, . :. • :r, ,!l1t·l J•l t·fa1ll•Jl ,,f \', '· ,. :. tl•i r, l:t;.\. .t ... ~ron~ldy -.ht•Jti~ ··1 .• t ••.•. ~ i I 1 ',\ ' .. I' t :·t II I - 'I: I! t' t ,,, 'l•I·' . .rtd \\t h·tl :t.at ··1!··:, .. d ltlllt h;J\t• I~. t·fl ll(J 1 Lt·' :tt O ' ! \\ I 1 .tl.•i •,,, .. '·' ;It 'r. ! .. lfl': .• ., I ,, ,, J. I'' o ' ; ' ;· o ~ l o I I ',;I ::., ,. h1- f1 ,. t. •· t\ II• t'fl ;1 ,.,,,,, •t ,_, ·1••\lltt• rir-- I'!.I J-:,.·,_~ 1-::tppa .', ; 1 ;t ',t, I' .tfJ i ( ·, ·f .. fl.t' Ill t-Il t-Ilt ''' ,.;: '•·.•Ill .·1ll•• •.\ 1:: !o.f [.\!!fltl • ,. !. '.. . .\ 1-<> l'.\1 L I'''\ : ,( h.' ' t • • I - I ~ . : I· < ' .... 1 ' . ! : • ' II ,, l • ~ I ,. . i . ' ' f ... : 1 \\ • 1. t .; • • 1 ,, •. • • • '. , • 't 1 1 t I • 't.t lit·· ·11 1,: + 1.i,, r 1 • '' • , r · , 1 r.,; 1 1 ,,( ''·'; •,, •t,, .. t\.t' I! \'.lll.lll;..: \\Itt• h Ill' t•IIIJd••:- tl:;d t·; '' llilltll Ito 1\ . , , • • II :11 '} t_, I·, •I•' \' dtt·H 1~ ,. : ,, ... ., .. I' \I. ~ I • ( - ' I 1 ' ( ' I • : I ! ' E PLURIBUS UNUM :I• •lUll~. Ill ' f I: It 1 .. (., t.· .,. •t .. rt .11l\ ,,, h• 1 1.••:1 !till I I t I·· I. \\ t ·'' Ull• •·· It'd 'l! ,. c ·,,,, \ - }ft• ' , 1 ~ Ill f t-' f f I' 1 t 1 ~ , • ', \ : . t 1! I> l t ·,. nt _ t• \.\If i l I lt\ 1 111 t .• t. t \\ Jll IC I Jt. \\ t ,; t' t:.t\ I' I t ,,, .... ' It:' t•tl v .. tat tt, , d!l .. r- 11f ' 1 .t 1 •• q ... , t·:t\.+' II *':1 t ·, t • !'.ill~' f111 Ill I I· t t·I·t· \H<U .- \\'J.t·lt tl.t-· (.utll \\Lill. ['I.e• t·~~llttoidiiH 1~ l•·id 11. d.Jtl~ a:·t•J;Id• ft•trlltl:- It' \I' til·.! 1'd 1 '1d1·rtf·· i'••~JJI d ;., ;(J• ~ljJ , •. (tJ!!dl I ,. . t, pfu tJ ;n ;,r.d fllt ll! .... )lt•cl J'lt '·' 'I\· ,dil•\ 11 .. .1 TllrH' t!.•!\1 !.' \\ ,_ \\cot\.t• d I.JI,+-' .1.1 , .. it!lll.nJ-1 :-,1 t ,! • t .I Ill :1.11 .l ljl j \l')l(\o' :1 \\I :) ;1 - Clf' t II ;, I :• ' I! l 'lflt 1: ~ 1 ')1 fit' +·''I '11 f I t ~ lc-• 11t • .... , 1t·-r :\o•f ••Jd\ did [I'· lJ C'l 1 1'11'11 ,, •: ,., Ill i u: ',f ; I jt 11 '~ lt. •·\ I ! :· • ·1· ' \I! J.l]• .,,. II+· rr~tH'•·· th+· I· r:. '·· t~~ r•·n.l\fn ht·' I d _,,. t•f•L ltl d:o~l;. ·l. ···rt.hl\ ., 1•·\,\ \\'1'1'], .•;.' l ;tt \', t\p tJ )Jf' 1'!.11 I d ftl,l!l\ t•dU t· It \ltfl!d ,,,,jfl I \'. h:1 h I \l f Ill ,\J!,f'11f ;,1 ! I,, L·J... : .t· I 1:1 IH·'f·'i. l •t II' ( tt t t· '. lt•,Hit-1 • Ill H l' rn•J\!'JIII'Ilf\ ·d tudr·ld I !I fit t .I)} \\''h~t·h t.:t }l,,.n \\t !•''llnc·d h\ 'Lt· .tdnnll I! 1!1~ flit· p:t~f ~ t·;·tl ;•• 1 .,f· rr.:1n~ - tlldt·nt~ and trll'lllh• t of t}w f.Jt ttl · .. ,.; tdtt •. -t·if JI,· v.,.,,t, ,,·lt•·la·IH· dt-flll' '\'n hv l·l·•llllffl,t·IJ1 ftll t·tw l!J:H t'ttlhlrlf'fll t'fld·!tl ,,,,, al ... ~• t'· 1 t-: •. t .. , 1-\as~pa. i. ' I •jlt Ill ' '\''ill df' It 1·: . .1 ) { )t 1 ; I,. I·' •r d 'I d I f I• ,,,j \IIIII f.,l ! h·d f •tltlftdt \\ f• h til Ill ,f I I'\ • :l.f 1 J,, ., I. ,-\ t I' I ~' I 't I I I',. Ill II \ I' I ,, STARRING BULLETS Enter+ a iner Deluxe with the Hottest Band in Town TASTY SANDWICHE:S and BETTER BEVERAGES BEACON GRILL - 756 ALBANY STREET PETER'S And Just What Does That Name Imply? pur t• h·mpt i11q f\('ds - £njuydll!e ilncJ fJI(-•,:o;.:~r:l t~lmn';f,ftf•Jt' JltuUCJh tful, illlL~IIicj£•nt St•r VIC(' Erd iu·ly tiS PETf=R ·s c .:n •,,., In·· Rivcde:.!J by I'~O~·J[ s,trJil.-lry CtncJ lilt•.Jt'l f1 ~ il< hen OUR INVITATION INCLUDES YOU ~'H}lf\'llltlg nt•\V in f 1 f•tt·r'- that \oll du11't flnd Hll\'~}lt'IP r·l~t- Ill Sd'tt'llPCt.ady .Ait {\'cJ!Idittunin~~ St•l'\ I<,~ 1{)1 tltfl t:Otllflll t 111 IJIJJ JIOI{Jtltl;, Peter's RESTAURANT AND SODA FOUNTAIN 426 STATE STREET -= -- l QUESTION- BOX! I I ' ' Dt•:>~ ~tudt·nt!-i in ti·Pnt·t:d I ant l1t\lt' in ;-;l-ht·nt·t·tatly ft,l ont·, Ptll JH .;-;p h·1 du :->ull.t' Il'~·t•a t t' h .\'01 lt on l'illllll ;.it: t·t•t. :-...;,,, nu. 1111t. rllat'' I b t\t• ht>t·n t'lll ttl :-tud\ :tl: tllt· lii t' t'llMHlt•s that lUll up ~;11d du\\\11 tht~ ILil. n~.tlng tltt• dillt•:t>Il-t' !t•.H' tioll'-i Df th.J:->t• th:tt do ll:-.t' F1It' t'hiPI'. and t.hu\' ·th:tt do H<•l.. So- utH)-o~-u, in lt'~lJHtH:·h' t.o tilt• pkA:-~ot' )tllli t•.iit\tll \\ ho t'tlltld Ht•\'t•l tw\.'t' .. -.old a t''-'·l'Y \\ll\huut thi~; ,-olllillll, illt• told Ill<' ~\ hilw t•lf ol 1 \. uuld Hot h•t Vt• :->.lid 1 t bt•t aU~t· at ht•a 1 t )'t1ll litH·\\' 1 a til tnodi'St I [ alii Ull- ~-i\\'t'lillg S.>ll.l' lt•tt'.t•ts that hUVl' <'Ulllt• to ILP :-;iliL'<' llJY :111 iva! in tlll~ tt)'\\'1'1, fit>In U11i.111 bd\'.:-- \vho ha.\'P ><'t'H ll:t' st tllt.ill\ b\' t'lu· hlut• ~at<• '1'ht• c.tht•t itu·!ivid;·lal \\llh Llt' 1~ not I ;z Pc>ht•HI, !Jut nwtt•ly youz Ptll tot· \VIlo ldi.t• .. lit t>-t'llMIHt'. ) .l. \.'OUld mudr Jll<'·fPt to ('<Jlll!' in und tall' with ruu all, oz l·PL h:q t-> PVt\ln nu .. t>t a.ny in1t•:t•:<tPd st•niots in Sillimall Ha~l. !Jut tIL<· ••l't'idt•n,·y of your polu t> fot ('(t, St'POIHl tP nt,nt~, Jll P \•t·nt...; n1y ~Ptt.ing p:.uH tht\l gat.t• Anyway. t'tJI!lP oUI :till! , t•t• lilt' ~lllilPtiUIP. 'f'ht• lt>t'.tt•l ~ t\tdltl\\' Dt•at· C'hi<'f: lhnv t·an a _.,t•niut btl:-Jt hP.It the lit• ]Jt <'S>'hlll and mal<<' :l l'o1 t unt• dur 111g tlu.•;-p hatd tinu•,.;. \l'l\\l\'''tivt· ,Jub-SPt•ll<'t\ 11£'al ''Jlt O~JlPl'ti\'t' Jo:lJ-!:it'Ph.t•I. •• T1 y and lln•! ><nnwt.hin),\ to WI :tp .·t•IL·pliazw iu. Yont~, Tltt· et.it·l' lit• II { hlt~f. I :tl\ :t loc:!l boy t.h'.!' \\'<,<Hid Iii\• t, <'llll'l lfni •II in thP fall. :hul 1 am wort ic·d abdUt unt• t llln•• l1u y(lll uppt ·t' tlll,:-.t• wtlt~·t'\'t~i. shaggy !J:lltt>d Jlldi\idu:Li.-.. ;.,.ll \\'alkJn;: 11 outtd t:ltt· t':trnpu .... ;ll ,. i't':llly dltll •· Anxiuth-1,\ 1 (\Jtll.tllllt·ti on pagt• ~}J Tennis Equipment CREPE SOLE SHOES $L25 BALLS, 4 for a Dollar RACQUETS, All Prices Golf Equipment ALLING RUBBER CO. 254 STATE ST. THE TUCK SHOP (Eastern Avenue) IS THE BEST PLACE TO TAKE THE GIRL ree-Swing wilh ~ides: full c ll t rniqh l'y ~rnr1rl. Jos. Nusbaum 447-451 STATE ST. Scb Inv Co1 I.arg Co \0 w Erlitt Pu Em I high have itorlal and t the n Thur> 17. In vi sixty ing f C\eivtn stut.!e1 Wot'k The v ity to next i ods oJ Of up-to- facilit spl'in! table~ ate .s: newsr ered venier Me1 iness cuss their on th• Sever pared comp· sheet, quPst' Mo1 Rei, force• third sion3 in Ill( due consi1 er en Ma prese Ul'E' 0 the e Ul'€hS ~eem· thing of hE hiti appn \Mac a me pair the e Hi( offer, unde tely tiful Mad< heav: to s« both Th wa~: It is thing male large ganil to a1 ness was expe: Pe form giver the t of tl top( Hel mak· and quitE playr as h the 1 vir ha YOI an l1a m< at

p u THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1934 Sehool Journalists · Invited to Inspect Concordy O~ffice· Office Where Concordiensis Will Entertain Visitors Next Week Large Ct·owd Expected to See • College Paper in Making at· \Open House\ Next Week Will Discuss Problems Editors Ready to Exchange Publi$hing ldeas of Visitm·s Embryo journalists from various high schools in ~entral New Yo* have been invited to inspect the ed- itorial office of ·The Concordfensis and to see a college newspaper in , the making next Wednesday and Thursday afternoons, May 16 and 17. Invitations wer.e mailed· to over sixty schools a week ago, and judg- ing fl~O!ll the replies already re- ceiv!ild, a large crowd of high school .students interested in newspaper work wiH ~;~.ttend the ''open house.\ The visito-rs will have the opport!ln- -ity to see the staff at work on the next issue, and to observe the meth- ods of operation. Of .particular interest will be the up-to-date equipment and office facilities which were installed last spring. The copy desk, typewriter tables, filing system, and \morgue\ are similar to those used in large newspaper offices and are consid- ered to be the last word in con- venience. A long-standing ambition was J•ealized with the installation· of modern equipment in the publications office last year. ·In the left foreground are the typewriter tables where copy is typed before turning It over to the copy deslt (right background), At the cente1· of the semicircular copy deslt sits the issue editor, and around hi!n lUte spokes of a wheel are the proof readers and headline Miters. ExcbR!lges and back numbers are filed at the table against the left waU. In the far corner is the desk of the editor-in-chief. Not shown in the picture 'are the filing cabinet, the \morgue the business manager's desk, and the desks foi' tlie Idol and the Garnet editors. Members of the editorial and bus- iness staff will ·be prepared to dis- cuss newspaper problems with ' , . . , . their guests and to exchange ideas £'fl.. • t D. t • l A· dR • h £'f t game. The organizations maJOr on the publishing of a school paper. t.~ltTlS mas .res lVa n · tC · \..IOncer : conce;t appearance of. the seas<?n Several exhibits have been pre- was m Ma;rch, when It played m pared for the visitors including a S . i11 .lA i1K • [ ·C[ b S Han~a ~all be.fore a small but en- complete headline schedule, style eason 1r.1arl\, l'f.l. USlCa U UCCeSS, thusmstJc audience. Unfortunately sheet and the results of the recent few students were present, but questionnaire. .-;. ~bose who attended were agreeably \<' · Impressed by the performance. Mountebanks Hold Dress ReheaTsal of Prom Play By RAN1UNE G. HINl'fiAN concert was to have begun. The trip The Band has also played at the . was especially enjoyable for the Glenridge Sanitarium and the Anna Over a hundred students have en- singers, for the cancellation of the Lee Home and participated in the gaged in the various musical activ- other two concerts which were to Schenectady Youth Week Parade. ities on the campus during the past have been given left them free The woodwind section also appear- year, ranging from Glee Club and from Friday evening until Sunday ed before the Schenectady Rotary Choir to Band, 'Instrumental Club, morning. Club and at the Ingersoll Memorial (Continued from Page 3) Dance Orchestra and String Quar- Home. The Band will play at the forced to weep during most of the tet. In addition to an unusually rich The annual local concert of the Niskayyuna Reformed Church Field third act and one or two intermis-. concert season, the Christmas Fes- organization was again sponsored: Day and possibly on Spring Night. sions Bastien was force\'1. to indulge tlval spohscred by the College by the Schenectady Alumni Asso- in most of the love scenes. With all Christian Association was outstand- ciatlon, which a;dded fifty dollars to · Of'Ncers of Band due justice to Therese, there was ing in the events of the year; stu- its scholarship fund. The following In addition to Profesor Male, its considera,ble discomfort on the oth- dents, faculty, and friends packed week the Glee Club sang with the: director, the Band has been under er end of the osculatory exchange. the candle-lit and flood-lighted Schubert Club and the Troy Vocal the Jea;dership of Emmett Newman, Madame Cordier, S. Ralph Cohen, Chapel for one of the most inspir- Society, in two concerts, the first leader; William Wilson, manager; presented a large and looming fig- ing musical gatherings the College in Troy Music Hall, the other in Thomas Male, ::>ec1·etary; and Char- ure on the dramatic horizon during has had. Memorial Chapel. les Lowenstein, librarian. the evening. Clad in a large blac::k The Glee Club has finished a The leadership of the organiza- The Choir, about which visiting dress not exactly large enough, she highly I'ewarding season in spite of tion has rested in Dr. Tidma;rsh, di- ministers have frequently spoken seemed to be the symbol of bad a number of cancellations, includ- rector; Professor Taylor, faculty with marked enthusiasm, has twice things to come, but the dulcet tones ing that of the Rochester trip, advisor; James Horan, manager; sung at Dr. Tidmarsh's weekly or- of her voice In the last act belled which wei'e suffered. In the College Herbert Hausser, student leader, gan recitals and once before the his appearance, which was quite Week-end Concert, as in past years, and Charles Reid, accompanist. Woman's Club. With the Glee Club appropriate for the first scene of imperfections resulting from lnsuf- . it undertook a prominent in the \Macbeth.\ Her crowning .glory was 'ficient preparation were obscured Band to Play Alumnl Day Christmas Festival and gave a mus- a megnificent chestnut wig and a by the si'ncere feeling with which leal progra;m which comprised the · f · hi h do · ted The Band wil climax an active d pair o- earrmgs w c mma each number was given. The work morning service that ay. the entire situation. b h d t · season on Alumni Day when it fur- Efforts to reorganize the instru- Hidoux and the esteemed Madame of the Clu 8 owe a vas Improve- nishes the music for the morning ment in accuracy and tonal qual- mental club this year failed after offered a very quite comparison in ity in the Kingston Concert two parade, the •ball game in the after- an exceJlent start. William Pike of underlips, also. Hidoux's was chas- weeks later. noon, and gives a concert preceed- Albany was secured as director and tely loose, and rolled with a beau- ing the fireworks in the evening. In rehea;rsals were held for several tiful und1il13-ting motion, while the Trip to Northern New York the morning they will be assisted months before irl'egular attendance Madame's was a bit pendulous and In February the Glee Club and by a second Band composed of brought them to a close. Prince heavy, and a really fearsome sight the Garnet Goblins made a north- alumni'. Last year's Alumni Day Oleson and Charles Reid took the t Th f i 1 t rt . of Committee was so satisfied with · th' b d o see, e ac a con o 1ons ern .trip which comprised concerts initiative in formmg IS o y. both were also very unusual. In Lowville, Watertown and os- the Band's work at that time that What .is Pleasure? What sort of pleasure will YOU choose? Shall it be lasting or evanescent? Dance at the \JUNIOR PROM\ by all means but remember also to Put Your Savings tn a SAVINGS BANK A Savings Account brings lasting pleasure The Schenectady Savings Bank Where Clinton Crosses State Interest from Day of Deposit: Therese, played by Jack Dowling, wego. In Lowville the Club sang it again asked them to play for the was superb-until one saw her feet. before an audience consisting large- occasion. The five hundred dolla:rs It is perhaps the most unfortunate ly of children and gave the most thus saved is placed in a separate thing in the Mountebanks that the spontaneous and jovial if least per- student loan fund. FOR AIL KINDS OF BREAD, ROLLS & CAKE FREIHOFER'S FREE DEUVERY PHONE 2-3500 Five Reorganized German Club C h o o .s e s New Officials At the meeting of the German Club held in Sllliman Hall Wednes- day evening Richard Pa-ssenger was elected president; William Kline, '3:J', vice-president and Wal- ter Bose, '37, secretary-treasurer. Plans for the continuation ·Of the club next year were discussed. Mr. Kurt von Forstmyer, faculty ad~ visor to the club, announced Dr. Ellery's approval of a new consti- tution, recently drawn up by a committee and raUfied by the members. Dr. F. C. Barnes, head : of the modern language depart- ment, also favors the nevv .plan anJ believes it will bring success to the club if adhered to next year. The raclically changed constitu- tion places greater restrictions on members, limits the number admit- ted, and increases the qualifications for joining. A Dean's List average and at least two years of prepara- tory German are requisites for membership. All members are to pledge themselves to speak only German at the weekly meetings. DeWirr·s LUNCH Opposite City Hall Come Here After the Prom! Good Service and Quality Sandwiches Dinners. Fine, and: VISIT OUR TAVERN DOWNSTAIRS! THE GOOD COMPANIONS Our food and choice beverages . . try your next meal here! You'll en- joy both twice as much. ARMORY GRILL Cor. State & Nott Terrace male of the species has inordinately feet concert of the year. The Glee During the year the Band bas large pedal extremities. But the or- Club's reception was particularly played at seven football games and ganization wili sacrifice anything enthusiastic in Watertown, where three of the home basketba:ll games, to art. Therel!le's shyness and coy- the chairman of the sponsoring as well, at the Pep Meeting and ness show that her Impersonator body declared that the Club could parade held before the Rochester was a true arti.st, having had much draw a. full ·house were it to retum exp:~~:;:· the most finished per- ag~n t:istr~:r1!~· songs were given 11111111.111111111111111111•1 lllllllllllllllllllllll.lllll formance Of the evening was that their finest presentation of the sea-; • • given by Director Carroll. To spealc son \Laudamus\ in Oswego and • • the truth, we did not get the name in 'watertown, \Why Don't You of the character he was assigned Try,\ a vigorous, exc?edingly in- • • to portray, .but he did it very well. formal soldier song which was con- • ·N p c ·~ t u I • He has a wonderful stride, and the sistently the most popular on t~e • .0· rom O·m .P :e ·e ' . n ess • makeup he wore, a very red face Club's program this year. On th1s • and startlngly 'light eyebrows, was trip, too the Garnet Goblins under · • quite effective. It is rumored he AI Warn:er's congenial direction, es- • • played the' part of a voice offstage, tablished the high reputation • y s A • as he never seemed to get on to which they have enjoyed through- •• 0 u t·o p t •• the set. out the yea:r. The group have par- Editor's Note:Niooolo Otta- ticularly distinguished themselves vtnao, of Schenectady, is per- in smooth rhythm numbers. • • haps one of the newest of. the • • younger group of critics. He is New York Concert .• an experienced theatre-goer, The New York Concert in March ··~ T 0 N y f s ·= having seen every Hoot GibS(In was, as usual, a distinctly social movie that has ever appeared occasion at which no one arrived at the .strand. · untU a half hour or more after the • • BROWN TAXI CO~ At Your ServiFe at all times-to and from the Prom Station at Corner of Union St. & Union Ave. • • E Sandwiches a·nd Refreshments E • • E 517 UNION STREET I • • I Between Carey's Drug .Store and W. G. Y G Laundry 1 = • • • . . . ... . . . ~··························································

THE OONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1934 School Journalists· Invited to Inspect Concordy Office Large Crowd Expected to See College Paper in Making at · \Open House\ Next Week · Will Discuss Problems Editors Ready to Exchange . Publishing Ideas of Visitors • Embryo journalists from various high schools in central New York · have been invited to .inspect the ed- itorial of.fi.ce of The Concordiensis and to see a college newspaper in · the malting next Wednesday and Thursday afternoons, May 16 and 17. Invitations were mailed to over· sixty schools a week ago; and judg- i~J.g from the replies already re- ceiyGld, a Iarge crowd of high school students interested in newspaper work will attend the \open house.\ The visitors will have the opportun- ity to see the staff at work on the next issue, and to observe the meth- · ods of operation. Of partict~lar interest will be the up-to-date equipment and office facilities which were installed last · spring. The copy desk, typewriter ' tables, filing. system, and \morgue\ are similar to those used in large newspaper offices and are consid- ered to be the last word in con- , venience. Office Where Concordiensis Will Entertain Visitors Next Week A long-standing ambition was realized with the installation of modern equipment in the publications office last year. ·In the left foreground a1•e the typeW!'lter tables where copy is typed before turning it over to the copy desk (right background). At the center of the semicircular copy desk sits the issue editor, and around him lilie spokes of a wheel are the proof readers and headline write1'S. Exchanges and back numbel'S are filed at the table against the left wall. In the far comer is the desk of the editor-in-chief. Not shown in the pictlll'e are the filing cabinet, the \morgUe the business manager's desk, and the desks for the Idol and the Garnet editors. Members of the editorial and bus- iness stl;lf:l; will be prepared to dis- .---------------------~--------------------------------------- cuss newspaper problems with their guests and to exchange 'ideas c·'h ·stmas v t\valAndR · h C t on the publishing of a school paper. , rz L' es l . lC oncer Several exhibits have been pre- pared for the visitors including a s 11. k ilK • [ Cl b S complete headline schedule, style. eason J.r.J..a.r, 1r.1USlCa U UCCeSS sheet,. and the results of the r.ecent questionnaire. ~------------------------- ----0--- Mountebanks Hold Dress Rehearsal of Prom Play By RANKINE G. HINMAN Over a hundred students have en- gaged in the various musical activ- ities on the campus during the past year, ranging from Glee Club and , Choir to Band, ·Instrumental Club, (Continued from Page 3) Dance Orchestra and String Quar- forced to weep during most of the tet. In addition to an unusually rich third act and one or two intermis- concert season, the Christmas Fes- sions Bastien w:e.s forced: to indulge tival sponsored by the College in most of the love scenes. With all Christian Association was outstand- due justice to Therese,' there was ing in the events of the year; stu- considerable discomfort on the oth- dents, faculty, and friends packed er end of the osculatory exchange. the candle-lit and flood-lighted Madame ·Cordier, S. Ralph Cohen, Cbapel for one of the most inspir- presented a large and looming fig- ing musical gatherings the College ure on the dramatic horizon dilring has had. the evening. Clad in a large black The Glee Club has finished a dress not exactly large enough, she highly rewarding season in spite of seemed to be the symbol of bad a number of cancellations, includ- thiJ;!.gs to come, but the dulcet tones ing that of the Rochester trip, of her voice in the last act belied , which were suffered. In the College his appearance, which was quite Week-end Concet•t, as in past years, appropriate for the first scene of imperfections resulting from insuf- \Macbeth.\ Her crowning glory was · ficient preparation were obscured a megnificent chestnut wig and' a by the sincere feeling with which pair of earrings which dominated each number was given, The work the entire situation. Hidoux and the esteemed Madame of the Club showed a vast improve- ment in accuracy and tonal qual- offered a very quite comparison in ity in the Kingston Concert two underlips, also. Hidoux.'s was .chas- weeks later. teiy loose, and rolled with a beau- tiful undul!).ting motion, while the Trip to Northern New York Madame's was a bit pendulous and In February the Glee Club an(\ heavy, and a really fearsome sight the Garnet Goblins made a north- to see. The facial contortions of ern trip which comprised concerts both were also very unusual. in Lowville, Watertown and Os- concert was to have begun. The trip was especially enjoyable for the singers, for the cancellation of the other two concerts which were to have been given left them free from Friday evening until Sunday morning. The annual local concert of the organization was again sponsored by the Schenectady Alumni Asso- ciation, which a;dded fifty dOllars to its scholarship fund. The following week the Glee Club sang with the Schubert Club and the Troy Vocal Society, in two concerts, the first in Troy Music Hall, the other in Memorial Chapel. The leadership of the organiza- tion has rested in Dr. Tidma:rsh, di- rector; Professor Taylor, faculty advisor; James Horan, manager; Herbert :Sausser, student leader, and Charles Reid, accompanist. .Gand to Play Alumni Day The Band wil climax an active season on Alumni Day when it fur- nishes the music for the morning parade, the ball game in the after- noon, and gives a concert preceed- ing the fireworks in the evening. In the morning they will be assisted by a second Ba:nd composed of alumni. Last year's Alumni Day Committee was so satisfied with the Band's work at that time that it again asked them to play for the occasion. The five hundred dolla:rs thus saved is placed in a separate student loan fund. During the year the Band has played at seven football games and three of the home basketball games, as well, at the Pep Meeting a:nd parade held before the :R.oc:Pester game. The organization's major concert appearance of the season was in Ma:rch, when it played in Hanna Hall before a small but en- thusiastic audience. Unfortunately few students were present, but those who attended were agreeably impressed by the .performance. The Band has also played at the Glenridge Sanitarium and the Anna Lee Home and participated in the Schenectady Youth Week Parade, The woodwind section also appear- ed before the .Schenectady Rotary Club and at the Ingersoll Memorial Home. The Band will play at the Niskayyuna Reformed Church Field Day and possibly on Spring Night. Officers of Band In addition to Profesor Male, its director, the Band has been under the leadership of Emmett Newman, leader; William Wilson, manager; Thomas Male, secretary; and Char- les Lowenstein, librarian. The Choir, about which visiting ministers have frequently spoken with marked enthusiasm, ha:s twice sung at Dr. Tidmarsh's weekly or- gan recitals and once before the Woman's Club. With the Glee Club it undertook a prominent in the Christmas Festival and gave a mus- ical progra:m which comprised the morning service that day. Efforts to reorganize the instru- mental club this year failed after an excellent start. William Pike of Albany was secured as director and rehearsals were held for several months before irregular attendance brought them to a close. Prince Oleson and Charles Reid took the initiative in forming this body. What is Pleasure? What sort of pleasure will YOU choose? Shall it be lasting or evanescent? Dance at the \JUNIOR PROM\ by all means but remember also to Put Your Savings ma SAVINGS BANK A Savings Account brings lasting pleasure The Schenectady Savings Bank Where Clinton Crosses State Interest from Day of Deposit FOR ALL KINDS OF BREAD, ROllS & CAKE FREIHOFER'S FREE DEUVERY PHONE 2-3500 Five REorganized German Club C h oo s e s New Officials At the meeting of the German Club held in Silliman Hall Wednes- . day evening Richard Passenger was ·elected president; Will!arn Kline, '37, vice-president and Wal- ter Bose,. '37,. secretary-treasurer. Plans for the continuation .of the club next year were discussed. Mr. Kurt von Forstmyer, faculty ad- visor to the club, announced Dr. ·Ellery's approval of a new consti- tution, recently drawn up by a committee and ratified by the members. Dr. F. C. Barnes, head of the modern language depart- ment, also favors the new plan and believes· it will bring success to the ·club if adhered to next year. The radically changed constitu- tion places greater restrictions on members, limits the number admit- ted, and increases the qualifications for joining. A Dean's List average and at least two years of prepara• tory German are requLsites .for membership. All members are to pledge themselves to speak only German at the weekly meetings. DeWITT'S LUNCH Opposite City Hall Come Here After the Prom! Good Service and Quality Sandwiches Dinners. Fine and VISIT OUR TAVERN DOWNSTAIRS! THE GOOD COMPANIONS Our food and choice beverages . . try your next meal here! You'll en- joy both twice as much. ARMORY GRILL Cor. State & Nott Terrace Therese, played by Jack Dowling, wego. In Lowville the Club sang was superb-until one saw her feet. before an audience consisting large- It is perbapf3 the most unfortunate ly of children and gave the most thing in the Mountebanks that the spontaneous and jovial if least per- male of the species has inordinately feet concert of the year. The Glee large pedal extremities. But the or- Club's reception was particularly ganization will sacrifice anything enthusiastic in watertown, where to art. There13e's shyness and coy- the chairman of the sponsoring ness show that her 1mpersonat9:r body declared that the Club could was a true artist, having had much draw a full house were it to return experience. agilln this Spring. · · • • • · •••• •. ••. I Perhaps the most finished per- On the trip two songs were given ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••••• • •••••••••••• formance of the evening was th~t their finest presentation of the sea- • • given by Director Carroll. To speak son, \La.udamus\ in Oswego and • • the truth, we did not get the name in Watertown, \Why Don't You of the character he was assigned Try,'; !l- vigorous, exceedingly in- D • to portray, but he did it very well, formal soldier song which was con- • N p· . c \I t u I • He has a wonderful stride, and the 0 rom om p e e . n ess makeup he wore, a very red face· sistently the most popular on the • . • and startingly light eyebrows, was Club's program this year. On this • · · · · • quite .effective. It is rumored he trip, too, the Garnet Goplins under • played the part of a voice offstage, AI. Warner's congenial direction, es- • . as he never seemed to get on to tabllshed the high reputation • y St At • the set. which they have enjoyed through- • 0 u · o p • out the yea>r. The group have par- • · · · Editor's Note:Niooolo Ott;a.. . ticularly distinguished themselves • · • viJla,o, of Schenectady, is per- in smooth rhythm numbers. • • haps one of the newest of the • • younger group of critics. He is New York Concert · an experienced thea.tre-goer, The New York Concert in March • T 0 N y J s . ha$g seen every Jloot Gibso~ was, as usual, a distinctly social .• 1 . ··= moVie that has ever appea.red occasion at which no one arrived at t1le Strand. until a half hour or more after the • • BROWN TAXI CO~ At Your ServiFe at all times-to and from the Prom Station at Corner of Union St. & Union Ave. • • 5 Sandwiches a·nd Refreshments 5 • • I 517 UNION STREET I • • • 1 Between Carey's Drug.Storeand W. G. Y. Laundry 1 • • • • . . .. . . . . . . . . . , •••••••••••.••••..•••••••••••••••.•••.•.•••••••••••••••••.

School Journalists Invited to Inspect Concordy Office Large Crowd Expected to ~t'e College Papel' in Making at. \Open House\ :r--;t'xt Week 1 Will Discuss Problems Editers Ready to Exchang·{'. Publishin~- Ideas of Visitor·s j I Emb1yo journctlbb ftotn v:.~riou\ high schools in ct·ntral I\PW Yotl\! ha\'e bePn invitPt.! to inspect the ed-: ito rial office of The Conconliensis I :.~nd to sec> :.1 f\ulll'g~ ll!'Wtipapet in tllP making nPxt Wetln<'sday and 1 Thursday aftemuon~. :\.lay ltl and 17. Invitation:-; wei e mailed to over sixty school;, a WPPk ago. and judg-: ing fliJlll the repliP:-; : .. di·eady re- C'eil'<,•d, a large cttlWd uf high schuol; student:; intere:;teu in newspaper 'I worl\ will attl'nd tht' \open house.\ The visitors will havt• the opJJOl tun-· ity to :;ee the ,.;taff u.t wotlt on the : next issut•, and to ob,;PI w· the meth- · ods of operation Of particular intl•re:·t will be tll~: up-to-date e4uipment and office' facilitiu; which wet e l!l:>talled lab\; :;pring. The copy t!e:.;k, typewriter; tables, filing ~ystem, and \mor gue\l a 1 e similar to those usPd in large newspaper offices and a 1 e t•unsid- l'red to be the last word in con- venience. Members of the editotial and bus- iness staff will be prepared to dis- cuss newspaper problems with their guests and to exchange ideas on the publishing of a school paper. Several exhibits have been pre- pared for the vi~itors including a complete headline Rchedule, style sheet, and the results of the recent quPstionnaire. --- ·- ·0 Mountebanks Hold Dress Rehearsal of Prom Play !Continued from Page 3> forced to weep dunng most of the third act and one or two intermis- sion3 Bastien was forced to indulge in most of the love scene,;, With all t!ue justice to Therrse, there was consiuerable di:;comfort on the oth- er end of the osculatory exchange. Mat!ame Cot·dier, S. Ralph Cohen, pre:.;entet! a large and looming fig- urP on the dramatic horizon during the evening. Clad in a large black t.lre,:; not exactly -large enough, she \eemed to be the ~ymbol of bud things to come, but the dulcet tone,.; of her voice in the last act belied his appearance, which was quite appropriate for the first scene of \Macbeth.\ Her crowning glory was a megnificent chestnut wig and a pair of earrings which dominated the entire situation. Hidoux and the esteemed MadamP offered a very quite comparison in unde1·1ips, also. Hidoux's was chas- tely loose, and rolled with a beau- tiful undulating motion, while the Madame's wa::; a bit pendulous and heavy, and a really fearsome sight to see. The facial contortions of both were a-lso very unu;;ual. Therese. played by Jack Dowling, was superb until one saw her· feet. It is perhaps the most unfortunate thing in the Mountebanks that the male of the species has inordinately large pedal extremities. But the or- ganization will sacrifice anything to art. Therese's shyness and coy- ness show that her impersonator was a true artist, having had much e>xperience. Perhaps the most finished per- formance of the evening was that given by Director Carroll. To speak the truth, we <.lid not get the name of the character he was assigned to portray, but he did it very well. He has a wonderful stride, and the makeup he wore, a very ted face and startingly light eyebrows, was quite effective. It is rumored he played the part of a voice offstage, as he never seemed to get on to the set. Editor's Note:Niccolo Otta- vinao, of Schenectady, is per- haps one of thl' newest of the younger group of critics. He ~s an experienced theatre-goer, having seen every Hoot Gibson movie that has ever appeared at tilE' Strand. THE CONCOll.DIES:-;J:-;, FHIJ).-\Y, :\lAY 11. 1981 Office Where Concordiensis Will Entertain Visitors Next Week A long-standing ambition was rpaliu·d with the installat·ion of rnodpm equipmt·nt in the publications offi!'e la~t ~·ear, In thP l<>ft fnrPground are the t;nwwritcr tabiPs whPrP cup~· is t~·ped bt'forp turning it ovPr to the eoJJ~· desk (right background). .-\t tht' cPnt~·t· of thl' sPmieirC'ular <'OPY desk sits th<>· issm• ~ditur, aml around hirn like SJI<>kt•s of a wht\t'l are th~· proof nadt•rs and hPadline writt•r,;. ExchangPs and htwk numhPrs are filetl ai the table against thP left wall. In t-lw far corner is the dPsk of tlu• editor-in-chief. :\'ot sh<mn in tht' piet-Ul'<' arP thP filing cahhwt, thP \n10rgut> thP busint>ss manag-er's dt•sl•, and tllP dPslu; for tlw Idol and thP GarnPt t>ditors. Christmas Festival AndRich Concert l ~~~~~-~·t ~~~eu~~n~~iz~~IO;~~ .~~~2~~ ;I_ wa;; m :\lar·ch, when It played 1n S )1$ k 7i!T • l C/ b s Hanna Hull before a small but en- 1 eason 1r.1ar lf'.l.. USlCU U UCCeSS thu~iastic audience. Unfortunat<'ly ff w ;;tudent~ wete piP,;Pnt. but those who attended were ag-Ireubly .,~~~-- ---- Impi·essted by the pei·fotmanre. I By HANH.INI<~ G. HIN!IIAN ; C\oncert wa:< to have begun. Tlw trip The Band has al~o played ut ttH· · , . . . , _: wa~ p~pPPially Pnjoyable for the tllenrid~e Sanitarium and the_ Anna 1 Over. a hundt e~ student~ haH' ~n 1 :<ingPt s, for the C\ancellation of the Lee Home and pat ticipated m thl' I ¥~ged m the vanous musical acltv-1 ot lwr two concet ts which were to Schenectady Youth \Veek Parade. Illes on the campus durmg- the past 1 hove been !(iven left thl'm ft et· The woodwind section al~o appl'ar- yem:. nmgmg from Glee Club and I from .Friday e\·Pning until Sundav ed bPfure the Schenectady Rotary I Chou· to Band. Instrume~tal Club, morning. · Club and at the Inger;;oll MPmorial, Dance Orchestra and Stt mt; Quar- 1 • Home. ThP Band will play at the' tPt. In addition to an unusually rkh I The an~mnl local C<~n<'<'rt 01 lhP · :'-ii;;kayyuna Heformed Church Fit· hi: concert season, the Christmas Ft·s~ urganizatton wa~ agmn sp~n\ored Day and fJOtioibly on Spt ing- Night. tival sponsored by thP CollPg-<' by the Selll'ne>ctatly Alumnt Ati,;o- Christian Association was outstand~ etatJun. Which added fifty dollars to Off-ice-rs of Band ing in thP PVPnts of thr Yt'Ul; ~tu-' its echolnn>hip fund. Th<' following In addition to Ptofp,;!Jl i\Ia!P, it> dent;;, faculty, and friends pached 1 ~·pp[{ the GlPP C'lub sang wtth thP dirPctor, the Band ha\ bern umlet the eandlP-lit and t!ood-lighlt-d i ~rhub•:t t Club an.'! thP ': 1 \Y Vocal till' lPadt•I,;hip of Emml'tt Xewman. Chapt'l lot· one of the mo\t in><[Jit-. Hor!~t~. tn 1\\u cnnrerb, thP flt;t 'lPadet; \\'illiUm \\'ilson, managPt;' ing musiral gathering,; tlw Colll'gP In, 1 r·oj: i\ht>rc Hall. thP otht'l\ ml Thoma,; !\!alP. ;;rcrPtaiy; and Chat· has had. i\l< motJal ChapP!. lPs l.uwvn,;t<·m, ltbtat ian. 1 TIH' Gle>e Club has finiHht>u a; . Tht' ~Pad;r~lllp of th.P \.'g~niza Thl' Choir, ubout which vi,.;itmg 1 highly nwarding season in spit!' of twn ha. 1 e:ot< t1 m Dt. Ttum.u_. h, dt- mtnbter,; hav£> fn·quently ,;pok<-n a nnmbn of can<\l'llation inelud-: t !'Clot·; ProfPs~nr· Taylor, faculty with nmt·lted pnthu~iasm, has twicl' I ing that. of the HtJf'he~tPt tli!J, 1 udvtsot; .Jam\\ Horan, managt'I: <ttng at Dt. Tidmat·sh's wedtly or- which wPt·e suff<>rf'u. In the College; HE>tllPtl\ lluu:;,.;rt_. studt>nt lc>atlt·t. pm !Pt•itals and oneP befote till' Wet'kend Con<'l'l t. a,.; in pa,.;t years.: ami C'hatl£>,; Ec-I<I. aN'otnJHlnt~t \\'oman',; Cluh. \\'ith trw Gl<·t' Club~ imperfections nsulting ft om in,.;uf-1 . _ 1 It undntook a prominPnt in thP 'I flcient pn'p.aration wet e oh!l<'tlled 1' nand tn Play Alumni l)Uy I Cht btmu:< Festiv~:t! ant! gav~ a mu,. ]Jv tlw sincere fPeling with whiP11 '[') u _, . 1 1 . 1 . teal program wh!C'h compr '\''d tlw \' - . · I<' , .anu \\1 r- 1 max an ac tv•· 1 • .• • tl . t I· . ' Pach nurnbPr was glVI'll Tht' woik 1 \I · !) 1 - 1 f murnmg ><'l\I<'P 13 ':n. I · · . :--r•a:;un on ,~, un1n1 ay w lPn 1 ur- L-. ·· . # ·, ~ t't , · t of the Club :-;howP<l a va,.;t Irnpt ovP-! . . , . , \ , f : 1 . \ ,,_,ftot l>< tt> 1 eot ga!ItZt H m:- ru- . ·' t l I 'm,Jt,;; tllL ll!U.II ot t te rnntt11n~. nt~ntal c•ltlb tlli .. ,.,,.,,. t\·It.lr·<l 'lf't<•t ment In aC'curac·y anu una qua- . . ' \ _, -~ < • , . K' C 1 t ·pat ad<'. tlw ball ptuw 111 th•• uftl'I- an PXCf'llPnt st·trt \Villi·tm !'ike nf rty rn the mp<ton on~et wn 1 · 1 1 · ' · ' k' I . . ll()On. an.' gi\'e~ a rnnc<'t pte<'<'<'t- All..Hltl\\ wa~ ~t'<'llt <•<1 u~ <lit ''''t•>t and I wee • ater. ing the 111 ewutl{s m t_hE' evenmg. In rehear'~alH WPI 0 held for ,.•veralj What is Pleasure? What sort of pleasure will YOU choose? Shall it be lasting or evanescent? Dance at the \JUNIOR PROM\ by all means bui\ remember also Put Your Savings m a to SAVINGS BANK A Savings Account brings lasting pleasure The Schenectady Savings Bank WhE'I\C' Clinton Crosses State .f<'j V<' , Rcor·ganized ( ;e1·man Club (' h o o s e s New Officials . .-\ t t t.~· nlt·t·t 111~.:. 'Jf U.t· ( h·r il.an C'lub lll'ltl m s:l:ttll:tll I l.ill \\\•·tin•·.-- : da) t\>rt'l1dt~ l!h. hutd J>tt:-L .... t·n,LYI \V:t:\'l t·h·c·tt•d }Jlt·:--Jd,•nt. \\'llltarn . }{IH~, .. 37. \ .•. ,. I•J•·-:d•·nt ~llHi \\'al- t'tt B(•'~', '3'7 ...... f·t'Jt' tly-trt':t .... tllt•J. IJI.trb tur· th•· t'CJrllJll'J;duHl of tht· l'iLih lll'Xt I t·.:tt Wt•J ,. d l·>\ll'.'''tl Cllt. ' l{ur t VtHl. Fo 1 ~t.Ul\'t'l f t•'ttlt v ad- ! \.'t~or t•1 t'!~t t•:uh.w at:rl••lltlt't>;l Dr. , E:llt ... ry·.-. .tpptov tl ,,f 1 ll•'\\' cun:-.ti- tll!I<Jn. !\t'<\t\!Jt I~ dr .• wr, HJ> J.y a coznnlittt·t· and I ,.ut·t··d bv th<· l!lt'llltH\l' lJJ F <\. Har.rw,·. lt•·ad of thP BH.Jdl\I n hngUH;.:t• dt•JHll ~­ llll'tll, al\J fa \\<>I- th•· ll<'ll' ]JI:tn and bdien·s n will i>tlllg '''\'''\' tu the· dub if adhPt•·<l t\ n•·x:t Y•':Ir. The tati!C\all) ,-;~.,n~···l <<>ll.'tltu- . tion pla('(• . ..; gt t·:ttt-r 1•·:-tlt('ttun .... ,,n llll'lllUE't', li!llit- tlil' tiUllJtwr a•ltnit- . tPd, ~ntl inett•a:-.t·~ tlu.· tpLl1tfieattun!-o fuJ joining. A l>1·an'=- LI~t avt>! agt• and at h·H!-ot t\\·r, yt•.ai:-- of Jllf•para- tuiy Gei·n1un .lit' IPqui.-:;itt-:i fuz· metnb(.•\hip. All mt·lll b<·I·, a1 ,. to plt:dgf' thE't!l'E'l\\1·~ to >JH•ak only (}prrn:•n :tt tht· \Vt ,·ldy tnf'ding:-. DeWITT'S LUNCH Clp[\''\''t\ C'It ,. Ha 11 Come Here After the Prom! Good Service and Quality Sandwiches Dinners. Fine and VISIT OUR TAVERN DOWNSTAIRS! THE GOOD COMPANIONS Trip to Northern New Ym·l< ttJP nH>rnmg tlrey wtll h•• asst:<tl'd months bPfore iti<'gulat attendancP In Febr·uaiy the Glee C'lub ant! by a second Ban~ compo.~P<I of 1 brought tllf'm to a <'los<'. PI\ince I Interest from Day of Deposit ' the Garnet Goblins made a north-. alumnr. Last yem s Alut~mi Day l Oleson ami Charles Hei<l took the ern trip which comprised concet t;; ('umnHtl<·.r was \'' ,;atJ;;frP<i With· tnttrattn· tn fur ming tlu~ body l!!::==============!.l Our food and choice beverages . . try your nex.t meal here! You' II en- joy both twice as much. in Lowville, Water·town and 0 ,_._ Ute B~nt! ~ work at that tlrne that I I wego. In Lowvtlle the Club sang, 1t ~g~111 a:-.kcd th.e.rn to play tot ~ht: --~- - --- ~ _ ------ ___ --~--- before an audience consisting largE'- occa;;wn. Tt:r fiH lmndr Pd dullat;; ly of children anti gave thP most I tl!lts saved 1 \' plact>d ln a '\'\Jl\lat<' i fOR ALL KINDS OF BREAD ROLLS & CAKE spontaneous and jovial if Jea~t pet·-: '\'t ud<•nt loan fund. I ' feet concet t of the ).'Pal'. The Glee! DUI mg thf' yPur thP Hand has F R E I H 0 FE R ' s Club's reception wa,; particularly 1 playPd at sewn football games and: enthusiastic in \Vatertown, where three> of the homP basketball .:ames, I the chait·man of the- sponsoring a,.; well, at the P<'P Me!'ting and 1 body tll'clureu that the• Club rould pntadf' heJ<l bPfor e t.h<' RochP~tPt ' FREE DEUVERY PHONE 2-3500 ARMORY GRILL Cor. State & Nott Terrace draw a full hou~e wt·tP it tD wtnrn 1-----------. ------.-----------------.---.------------~ ag~~ntb~i~~~g'{~z· songs wete giv<'n: ••IIIJBIIR·II·IIIIII.III.IIIBII········ •••• 1111••··················1 their finest pr.,sentation of thP st'a-:. • son. \Laudamus\ in Oswego and •. • in \Vatertown. \Why Don't Y_ou 1··· • Try,\ a vigorous, exceedingly m- 1 fornlalsoluiet·HOn!(Whichwa\\on-·• No Prom Complete UnleSS • sistently the most popular on tlw • • Club's program this year. On thi~ • • trip, too, the Garn<>t Goblins under i • AI Warner's congenial dirPrtion, es- • tablished thE' high teputation • y St At • which they have enjoyed through- • ou op • out the year. The group have pat- · ticularly distinguished themse>lves B B in smooth rhythm numbers. g • New York ConcN't • • was, as usual, a distinctly social • • occasion at which no one arrived • • The New York Concert in MarTh • T 0 N y ( s II until a half hour or more after thr i Ill • ~~~~~~==================~!= = ~5 Sandwiches and Refreshments 5 • • i 517 UNION STREET i • • 1 ~1 Between Carey's Drug Store and W. G. Y. Laundry 1 • • BROWN TAXI CO~ At Your Service at all times-to and from the Prom Station at Corner of Union St. & Union Ave. • • • • L---------------\1 , ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ! PHONE 4-3191

Six THE CONGORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, .MAY 11, 1934 Trackmen, Lacrossemen, Nine, Golfers In Action Here Ketzmen Favorite In Meet 'f With Rochester Tomorrow ~ ~~~\ Garnet Trackmen in First Home Encounter; May Roll Up Huge Sco1·e GarNetmen Won One and Lost Fo WILLIAM KAZl\UERCZAR Sport Slides By MILTON A. BERGER ··Varsity Ten To Encounter C. C. N. Y. Team Tomorrow Golfers Face Powerful High Scoring Machine to Blue and Buff Team Here Futnish City College LEON NAGl1S,ZEWSKI Powerful Opposition A RARE VINTAGE Nineteen Northwestern Univer- sity professors· have recently com- pleted 25 years as members of the faculty o~ the EvaiLSton, Illinois in- stitution. ~ORMAL DRESS . Iowa State College for Women, in . a recent survey, demanded that · me.li. students dress in formal at- tire :for theater parties and similar occasions. U: :: 15 tea un: no• ph Gr tm thE tw• on ] hu in~ do· ev• all to r·u: m! we te! se· M( glE 101 a sb th da lo• m th W• it Tl sa in to st SE io st to ht af ol G dE 01 dt fiE w a! tc hi gl rn l'! H VI 81 :g 11 I ·=:·

rk to is T. he bil- in- he if be es- he to on- bly ob- in- in at- THE. CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY MAY 11 1934 - ~ . ' Nine W· all.·op· s.· St. Step.· h· ens §n.~:;~~iE~~~~.~~.:::::::::: ~ 7 v ·t N' M. Kappa Sigma ............. , 2 1~ . arsJ y tne . eets .Phi oamma De-lta....:_:_ ....... 1 13 Clarkson Tech Here As Griswold Gives One Hit'. After battling along for five inn- ings, Ernie Brown of the Beta ~·~··~-------~----~ Theta Pi team took a ball pitched by Marotta, the right•handed flln- Loomis Will Assume Pitching Assignment Tomorrow and Clark Returns to Lineup U m.·. ()ll.· Wins 1. 5 to 0, G\ et.- .II II' ger for the Alpha Phi Delts for a t 16 H N H I NT RAM URAL · ride out of the pa;rk with t~o men Ing 'Its; · 0 · •It · · · on. This. long drive brought the T ' score to 7-1 in favor of the Betas. --- . Ut Spoiled in Sixth '!!;;;;;==========~ The Alpha Phis :were not able to By WILLIAM E. FERGUSON Beta Theta Pi won the Intra- ,bring in a;ny runs in their half of Union's va·rsity baseball tea;m will rnw·!IJ. Baseball champi001sbip • the. fifth. With the same seeming- again have its real strength tested yesterday afternoon when they ely m the bag the confident Nnioh tomorrow when it meets a strong beat Psi Upsilon, 7 to S, for Avenue boys let down a bit, little Clarkson Tech team on Alexander their third stMight victory. In •suspecting that their opponents Field at 2:30. Jim Loomis who the other game of the after- would make a Iast drive. In the pitched a good game again~t Col- By WILLIAM ~. FERGUSON Slugging out 16 hits for a total·of 15 runs, the Union Viarsity baseball team returned to the winning col-, umn with vigor Wednesday after- noon by shutting out the St. Ste- · pheli's nine on Alexander Field. Guy Groswold, sophomore pitching ace,, turned in his best performance of the year, allowing the visitors but two hits and yielding only two bases on balls; nollill, Alpha Phi Delta won .seventh frame, Fred Waterman t ove1· ~ppa Nu,. 5 to 2. ' lo;J,ded the bases with two outs. The· ga e a week ago, will again assume F • I S d :Alpha Phi Delt pitcher caught a the duties of a pitcher and try to Ina tan ings. : hold of what would have been the stop the bats of the Techs. Loomis, who shut out Stevens Baseball ·For five straight innings Griswold NORTHERN LEAGUE hurled perfect ball, no visitor reach-, · W ing first base. They were mowed K.appa. ~·\.\ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 7 down to the tUne of one, two, three· Sigma ·Ohl .... \· \· · ...... 5 Phi Delta Theta ........... 4 every inning. In the sixth, Griswold: Theta Nu EIPsilon .......... 4 allowed the first St. Stephens man' Lambqa Chi Alpha ... , .... 0 to reach first on a walk, but the. EASTERN LEAGUE tlinner wa;s stranded a;s his team· W mates were powerless against Gris-· Beta '.rheta Pi · · · · · ........ 7 wold's superb twirling and the home f'>~'ir: i'?h'lt~. -~~:.:::: ::::::: ~ team's stiff defense. Again in the: Phi Gamma Delta ......... 3 seventh a -vi~itor reached first when Sigma Phi ................. 0 Molyneaux, their first baseman, sin- SOUTHERN LEAGUE gled to right field for the Saints' w lone hit of the day. After Parent, Psi Upsi!on ............... , 8 a pinch hitter had walked, in the Kappa .Sigma · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ! sixth. frame, the opposition was ~~~!as' Aii>h'a: · : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~ through reaching first base for the Theta Delta Chi ........... 0 day. Griswold, in addition to his al- WESTERN LEAGUE lowing but one safety, struck out six w men and handled three chances in Alpha Phi Delta .... , ...... 8 the field without a miscue. Neutrals · · · · · · · · · · · · ... , .. , 5 Delta. Upsilon . . .. . . • . .. . . . . 5 Union in Slugfest Delta Chi ........ , ......... 1 Phi Sigma Delta ....... , . . . 1 The Garnet nine looked as if they were playing a practice game wh!3n it came to batting. ';['hey collected 16 safe hits in hang- ing out their vic- tory. It is a strange thing, but Semerad, the Un- ion nine's main- stay when it comes to slugging, was held hitless for the afternoon. On the other hand, the Garnet center fiel- der did not strike out and hit twice deep into the out- Semerad ---•01--- Hm~seshoes NATIONAL LEAGUE w Al•pha Phi Delta ..... , ..... 14 Phi Delta Theta ........... 10 .Chi Psi .................... 9 Delta Upsilon .......... , ... 9 Theta Delta Chi .. , . . . . . . . . 6 Phi Sigma Delta ..... , ..... 5 Delta Phi ............ , ..... 3 Delta •Chi ......... , ........ 0 AMERICAN LEAGUE w Lambda Chi Alpha ........ 13 Neutrals .......... , ........ i2 Uela Theta Pi ............. 8 Kappa !l!u ................. 7 ·,third stril!;e and dr-ove it for a three Tech in a 5 to (} game at Hoboken, bagger. The game ended quickly will .be at his best for the fray. His when the next man up popped out to the shortstop, the Betas winning, work against Colgate last week was good ,although his team mates fell As though fate were ta•king part in down in the final innings to .Jet the , the game, the Betas redeemed L themselves of their defeat of last Red Raiders take the game with- 1 'th th out much dispute. Jim is a steady 3 year W1 e same opponents. reliable pitcher and should prove ! --- most effective ,against the Visitors. 8 Slamming out four successive .clark Recovers :hits and capitalizing on a series of Lefty Clark, who has been out of L errors by Kappa Nu in the first action for the ·P'ast two games will 1 ·inning, Beta Theta Pi won their again appear in uniform and will 2 :first game in the Intramural Cham- be seen at his old post on the initial 4 .pionship Series Wednesday after- sack. Lefty has been missed 5 noon by a score of 8 to 5. The Betas around first base, although Bush, 0 scored two more runs in the sec- who needs more experience to put ond and again in the sixth inning, him in Clark's class, filled his su- L although they were Iimited to three perior's shoes to good advantage in ~· hits after the opening frame. The the St. Stephen's game Wednesday. 5 KN offensive opened up in the fifth Bush, who has played in the last 5 with one run, and added four more two games, is hitting the ball at a 8 in the next two innings, but was .600 cllp, which is somewhat higher unable to malj:e up their opponent's than the regular first baseman's L· early lead. KN outhit the winners average for a like number of o nine hits ·to seven, games. ~ Little change will be seen in the 7 In one of. the opening games of Garnet lineup. Mike Fiore, that 7 the play off series for the cham- midget wonder of the keystone pionship of the annual spring soft sack, will again be at his regular ·ball tournament Alpha Ph! Delta position. Mike has been doing well won a thrilling 4-2 victory over Psi at bat as is proven by his .300 aver- Upsilon. age. He is one of the three select Psi Upsilon scored two runs early who are in the heavy\hitting class. L ·in the game and held a 2-1 lead Chip Dain will be at his regular o going into the sixth inning, but AI- short-stop post and is expected to 4 pha. Phi Delta scored a run in this fill that job as nicely as he has in 5 frame tying the score. In the last the past. The third member of the 5 inning Psi Upsilon had the winning infield will be Dave Cadwallader, ~ run on third base and lost their another promising young sopho- 11 cha;nce to win the game when the more, who collected his first clean 14 man was not sent home on a long hi.t in Wednesday's encounter. Not fly to center field. Alpha Phi Delta only one hit did Dave get, but add- L failed to score in their half of the ed another to it .for good luck. He 1 seventh but pushed two runs has undoubtedly found his old bat- 2 across in the extra inning while ting eye that he uses in practice ~ holding Psi Upsilon scoreless. and will be seen banging the ball around the field at a lively clip. Garrison Hits .40(} field and WaB purposely walked twice when the St. Stephens pitcher re- alized that it was not a wise thing Bush walked, Cadwallader singled, to do to pitch to Union's heaviest Stevenson singled, and Fiore, Garri- hitter. Semerad played an errorle.ss son, and Semerad walked. The scor• game in the outfield and even was ing was finished in the eighth when moved to first base when Bush was Brandow singled, McDowell followed removed on account of a sore foot. ouit, Semerad walked, Brandow Here Ralph handled three putouts scored on a passed ball, Griswold without difficulty and made one un- flied to deep left, and .Lambeth col- assisted. lected a single. The last out came Stevenson, playing his fifth full when Lambeth was out stealing sec- Unleashing a powerful attack the Psi U's defeated Kappa Nu Wednesday evening, 10 to 4. This is the greatest number of runs that any team has scored on the KN nine. The winners scored in the first, second, fifth and sixth inn- ings, the latter being the most fruitful. The losers tallied once in the third and three times more in. the fifth, In the outfield, Captain Burg Garrison, the surprise slugger of the year will be seen in his old post in right field. Gary is now leading his colleagues in batting with a .400 average, having passed his heavy-hitting team mate, Sem- Horseshoes Alpha Phi Delta won over Chi Psi, 21-7, 21-0; Kappa Nu defeated Kappa Sigma, (default); Phi Sig- ma Delta beat Delta Chi, <default); Lambda Chi Alpha defeated Beta Theta Pi, 21-9, 21-Hl; Phi Delta Theta beat Delta Phi, (default); Neutrals defeated Theta Nu Epsi- lon, 21-6, 21-7; Lambda Chi Alpha won over Theta Nu Epsilon, 21-5, 12-21, 21-10. ' game for the home team, craBhed ond. through with his The 8tlll1ll1ll.l'y first hit of the sea- Union (15) AB R H PO A E ---o--- Results of Postponed Games son in the barrage. F' 2b 4 1 2 1 2 With Cadwallader lore, · · · · · · · · · 0 on first, the Garn- Garrison, rf . . . . . . 2 2 1 1 0 0 et catcher hit a Dain, ss · · · · · · · · · · 5 1 1 0 5 0 . 1 Semerad, cf, lb , . • 4 2 0 4 o o smg e and went Loomis, If . . . . . . . . 5 1 1 1 0 0 all the way to G 1 ld 4 2 2 \ • third on an error r swo ' P • • • • · • • v \ 0 b Stevenson, c . . . . . . 5 1 1 7 0 0 Baseball Entry :Blank (lnti•ammal Track) Seven Dr. J. L. March Receives Loud Applause in Chapel Addressing the student body for List entrants after each event. Members of the varsity team are not eligible. Events begin promptly at 4:30 p. m. Entries must be in by tonorrow noon. One man may enter only three ·events. Name of OI·ganiza:t!on .. , .... ............................... 100 yd. dash ... , ............... . . the first tiine since Prize Day last year, and for the third time in as many years, Dr. John L. March, Professor of Psychology, spoke in the last daily assembly yesterday on common sense in daily living. Dr. March was greeted upon his in- troduction by Dr. Edward Ellery with several moments of loud ap- plause by the students, and he stood silent for a half-minute after the clapping had died down before he began to speak. .............................. 220 yd. dash ... , ............... . .................... '' •••• ooo ooo 220 yd. low hutdles .......... .. He explained immediately that he was going to speak on a subject of especial interest to psychologists but one which should also be of in~ terest to every sensible man. \The study of psychology,\ he said, \has value because it gives a cer- attitude of looking at things to the • 000 ••• o• 0 o• oo oOO 0 ••• o•• ooo ooo · educated man, an attitude of com- mon sense.\ Shot put ............... , ...... . •• 0 • 0 ••••••••••••• ' ••• 0 •• ' •••• Discus ........ , .......... ·· · ··· ••••••••••••••••••• 0 •••••••••• Pole vault .... , . , .......•. , .... ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ooO Javelin ........ , ........ , ..... ·. .............................. High jump . , .. , . , .. , .•......... •••• 0 ••••••• 0 0 •••••••••••••••• Broad jump ... , . , ...... , ...... . -~-01--- Fall Tenrus Toux:namen t To Be Conchtded Next Week The following men must play off their fall tennis matches before Wednesday evening, May 16 or oth- erwise lose their chance for the championship: Bracket 1-Keats vs. Griswold (winner) vs. winner of Stroebel vs. Schultz. vs. Bracket 2-Cohen vs. winner of Slobod vs. F'raser vs. winner of Lin- dabury vs. Warner. Notification of results must be given to Coach Nelson Nitchma.n at .............................. \....--------------1! the gymnasium before 8:30 Wednes- day evening. erad, in the last game. Burg has been doing sterling work In the garden patch and is expected to continue the good work. Ralph Semerad, the Garnet slugging cen- ter fielder, will •tr)l\ to. overcome the stymie which he encountered in the Saints' game and will prot.ably re- turn to his old batti!l.g form. Ralph was blanked in .tlle St. Stephens game in four official trips to the plate. This is the firs-t time that he has failed to hit safely in a game this season. Guy Griswold, who pitched Wednesday's shutout vic- tory over St. Stephens and. who has won victories over Middlebury and Rochester as well, will be seen in left field where he alternates with Jim Loonis. Guy stands fourth in the list of batting and is expected to raise his .263 average by several points jn. the ga.me with the Techs. On the other end of Union's bat- tery will be Al Stevenson, the sophomore catcher who has made quite a name fo1· himself as a re- ceiver and handler of the Infield. He garnered his first hit of.: the year in the St. Stephens game and is expected to swell his batting average as well as continue his good work behind the plate. Clarkson comes ll.ere as an un- ltnown quantity, A.s a rule tile Techs have a good ball club and are expected to bring azwther fine team to Schenectady to;norrow. BUILDINGS WITH SOULS Predicting the end of the \sky- scrapper age,\ Frank Lloyd Wright, prominent American architect, told a Northwestern University audi- ence recently that \the architecture of the future will grow out of the inward nature of the American people.\ PARK LJ.UNDRY, INC. 1-llli Clinton St. (I.o.bor Temple) PHONE 4·0011 College Bundles a Speola.lty YOU'RE NEXT! Peerless Barber Shop Prompt Service - Skilled Barbers-Sanitary Methods C. CANGIANO 146 JAY ST. Schenectady, N.Y. UNITY- NOBBS SHIRT M}...KERS 1-IABERDASHERY Y Brady, the Cadwallader, 3b .. 4 1 2 0 0 0 Saint's left fielder. B h 1b He scored a few us , ......... 4 2 8 11 0 0 minutes later after Brandow, 2 b · · · · · 1 1 1 1 1 0 Theta Nu Epsilon defeated Lamb- da Chi Alpha, 9-0; Beta Theta Pi beat Phi Gamma Delta, 12-7; Kap- pa Sigma won over Kappa Alpha, 14-4; Delta Upsilon beat Neutrals, 15-8; Kappa Nu defeated Lambda Chi Alpha, 9-0; Delta Phi beat Phi Gamma Delta, 9-8; Kappa Sigma defeated Psi Upsilon, 15-10; Alpha Phi Delta won over Neutrals, 9-6. Phi Delta Theta. defeated Theta Delta Chi, 15-21, 21-15, 21-15; Chi Psi beat Delta Chi, (default); Lambda Chi Alpha defeated Kappa Gus Keefe 104 BROADWAY Sigma, (default) : Alpha Phi Delta Bob Forte Just off State St. Fi McDowell, rf .. , . . 1 1 1 0 0 0 ore, Garrison, Lambeth, cf . . . . . . 1 0 1 0 0 0 Stevenson and Semerad had . Reed, 3b . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 1 0 0 walked, forcing in Totals .. , ... , ... 40 15 16 27 11 0 a run. St. Stephens((}) AB R HPOA E Cadwallader Hits Mason, 2b . . . . . . . . 4 0 (} 4 1 1 Cadwallader also came through in the batting order by collecting two safe hits. The heaviest hitter of the day was Bush, filling Clark's place at first base, who garnered three hits ,one o~ them the only double of the day in four official trips to the plate. Chip Dain played a sterl- ing game at the shortstop post and batted in a run in the fourth inning by hitting a single to center field. Dain Union had tliiee big innings, the first, fifth and the . eighth, when four runs crossed the plate each time. :In the first Fiore started things off with a single at the second base-- man. He later went to third w h e n Garrison singled to left cen- ter, and went home on a pass ba:ll. Dain was yvalked and Semerad :m&naged to get to first on an error, Garrison scor- ing, Loomis flied to deep center ~eld and Dain and Semerad <Jrossecr the plate. In the fifth Griswold singled, Kepple1·, ss .... , . . 4 0 0 a 0 2 Snyder, rf . . . . . . . . 4 0 0 5 0 0 Molyneaux, 1b .... 3 0 1 2 0 0 Burgevin, p . . . . . . 2 0 0 0 1 2 Dienst, c ...... , . . 4 0 0 a 2 0 Woodruff, 3b . . . . . 3 0 0 1 0 0 Brady, If . . . . . . . . • 2 0 0 3 0 1 Nieman, cf • . . . . . . 3 0 0 3 0 0 Jastram, p ....... 0 0 0 0 1 0 *Parent . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 0 0 0 Totals .•.•...... 29 0 1 24 5 6 * Batted for Burgevin in the 7th. Two-base hit-Bush. Struck out -By Briswold 6, Burgevin 1 in six innings, Jastram 2 in 2 innings . Bases on balls-Off Griswold 2, Bur- gevin 6, Jastram 2. Stolen bases- Semerad 2, Garrison 2, Fiore, Mc- Dowell, Loomis. Left on bases- Union 8, St. Stephens 1. Winning pitcher-Griswold. Losing pitcher- Burgevin,. Umpire-Connelly. Time of game-2 hours. Compliments of CAPITOL TAVERN 152 Jay St. PETERS DAIRY Nearest to College Service All Day PHONES-4-0947-2-0411-R A tie game between Beta Theta Pi and Alpha Delta Phi necessitat- ed a play off which was won by Beta Theta Pi, 10-0. beat Phi Sigma Delta, 21-3, 15-21, ~~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;~;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 21-8; Neutrals beat Sigma Chi, 21- 14, 21-12; Phi Delta Theta defeat- ed Delta Upsilon, 21-18, 7-21, 21-2(}; Neutrals won over Phi Gamma Del- ta, 21-15, 21-6; Kappa Nu defeated Beta Theta Pi, (default) ; Theta Delta Chi beat Delta Chi, (default); Lambda Chi Alpha won over Sig- The southern league ended in a tie between Kappa Sigma and Psi Upsilon, each winning seven games and losing one. The play off was won by Psi Upsilon, '25-8. ma Chi, 21-12, 21-16. tiJ.;~~:f:!~:::ii::::i:-:~::::umm::m::::::m::m:m::::m::::m::m::mm::mm::m::::msn:i:m::um:mm:::m m l'.i!.l~. For That Morning After m m Feelingi Iii m ICE COLD TOMATO JUICE m m .. r.! .. 5 m at \' m '=.'·l:'.1 m m MURRY'S il! m ill m::m::m::::m::m~:::mm:m::::::i:!m::m:m:::;::::i:::mm~:.m:::mm:::m:::m:m:::m::m:::mm::m::::m:::~mt; u;::m::::::m:::mm:m:m:::m:::::::m:m::m:::m::::;:::m:::m::mm:n:m:::m:::m:::m:mmmm:mum:: iii ::: ::: IIi PETERS SWEET SHOPPE Ill IIi Corner VanVranken & Hattie m m 1 ::: {F I KOZY KORNER) ::: !!i ormer y m m m g; MOHAWK ICE CREAM iii m rn ~ ill .111 Served at Our Fountain ill ~ \' lil OPE. N EVENINGS ill ~~~ ~H ill ill ~~~ iU OWEN OPTICAL CO. 154 BARRETT ST. PR.ESCRIPTION OPTICIANS BROKEN LENSES and FRAMES REPAIRED PROMPlL Y DAWN DANCE AT THE GAY GULL ON THE SARATOGA ROAD AFTER PROM FROM 3-6 $1.00 A COUPLE For Reservations CALL 4-6729 HANK GULNAC or DOUG. SMITH m m I.!.============================;;;:Jll ~=:=:m::imm:::::::::::mm::m::mm:m::i::m::m:::::::mmam!m:::::m;:m:;:m::m:ml!:m::nm::::m::mn::mni!~

•\ Eight Guest Lists of Fraternities And Neutrals Announced ~·--------~----------~--------- There will be .~ix house danceR Rappa Sigma and two vietrola dances on tomor- The Kappa Sigma Fraternity i row night besides sevet·al house planing a house party this week- parties. The houses giving danees end with a d!i:nce .Saturday night are Chi Psi, Kappa: Alpha, Kappa. from 9 to 1. The \Revellers\ will Sigma, Psi Upsilon, Phi Gamma furnish music for this occasion and Delta, and Delta Upsilon. Phi Delta the chaperones are Dr. and Mrs. Theta and Phi Sigma Kappa are Von Bot·stel and Mr. and Mrs. planing victrola dances while Psi Donald Millham. The guests will be Upsilon, Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma. Miss Louise Brokaw of East Or- Phi and Kappa Sigma are having ange, N. J.; Miss Dorothy Rinker house parties. and Miss Marion Clark of Bloom- Alpha Delta Phi field, N. J.; Miss Leah Gentle of The guests of the Alpha Delta Cleveland, Ohio; Miss Jean Thomp- Phi fraternity will be Miss Edmee, son of Deleware, Ohio; Miss Viola Reisinger, Greenwich, Cann.; Miss Allyn of West Haven, Conn.; Miss Ruth Johnson, Johnson City, N. Y.; Elizabeth ashburn of Richmond, Miss Orissa Holden, Westport,. Va.; Mi:;\' Ma1y Gibbons and Miss Conn.; Miss Patricia Sheldon, Sche-· Alice Carlton of Middleburgh, N.Y.; nectady. Miss Alice Overton of New Rochelle; Miss Winefred Schermer- horn of Castleton-on-Hudson; Miss Elmina Judkins of Amsterda,m; Miss Vivian Dinault, Miss Gertrude Andrews, Miss Catherine O'Connor, Miss Olgo Rokovich, Miss Julia Brazell, Miss Ruth Giegengach and Miss Barbara Salmon of Schenec- tady. Chi Psi The Chi Psi Fraternity will hold a closed dinner dance to be follow-: ed by an open da:nee from 10 till 12. Bernie Collins' Orchestra of Sar- atoga will play and the chaperones wHI be Dr. and M.rs. John Younie of Schenectady. The guests include: Neula:als Miss Norma Buckley of Buffalo, Miss Emily Comstock of Bronx-. ville, Miss Helen Nutting of Water- The guests of the Neutrals will be town, Miss Betty Brooks of New Miss Betty Ethel Tordoff, Mechan- Rochelle, Miss Muriel Waugh of icvil'le; Miss Edith Marie Manter, Newark, N. J., Miss Edna. Has- Buffalo, N. Y.; Miss Gertrude Eve- brouck of Oradell, N.J., Miss Helen lyn Morgan, Troy; Miss Dorothea Leake of Garden City, L. I., Miss Frances Hu~;hes, Watervliet; Mr. Leona Simmons of Endicott, Miss and Mrs. Joseph Carr, Cohoes; Miss Barbara Dorr of Wells, Miss Ruth Florence F. Carr, Cohoes; Mr. and Dauchy, Miss Mary Walker and Mrs. Francis E. Lyons, Troy; Miss Miss Alice Hawthorne of Troy; .Elva L. Nealon, Menands, N. Y.; Miss Marjorie Worthing and Miss Miss Jessie Savage, Skidmore; Harriet Clarke of New York; and Miss Aura Edna Kappes, Brooklyn; Miss Mary Andrews, Miss Margaret Miss Marjory Covell, Schenectady.; Proper, Miss Jean Teeta:r, Miss Miss Ruth Gordon, Schenectady; Eleanor Wheeler, Miss Edith Kruse, Miss Helen Tesar, Schenectady; Miss Betty Carlton and Miss Betty Miss Ethel Fehr, Schenectady; Peterson of this city. Miss Marie Lapinski, Schenectady; Miss Mary Roman, Amsterdam; Delta Phi Miss Jean Kanerer, Schenectady. The guests of the Delta Phi fra- PW s· ternity are Miss Jane Chadwick, · •gma Delta Miss Virginia Ellsworth, Miss Bet- The guests of the Phi Sigma Del- tina Freeman and Miss Marjorie ta will be Miss Ruth Reiner, Al- Male of Schenectady; Miss Louise bany; Miss Roslyn Snyder, Albany; Bailey, Miss Ellen Ayres Hardies, Miss Mae Cohn, Schenectady. and Miss Betty Kuhn, Amsterdam; Phi Delta Theta Miss Katherine Callahan and Miss Margaret Wells of Johnstown; Miss The Phi Delta Theta Fraternity Helen Zimmer, Gloversville; Miss will hold a victrola dance Saturday Nancy Cluett, Troy; Miss Jane evening from 8 till 1, with Mrs. C. Smalley, Glens Falls; Miss Vivian F. F. Garis and Mrs. M. B. Flinn King, Queens Village; and Miss as chaperones. The guests will be: Ruth Johnson, Worcester, Mass. Miss Frances Wynn of New York; Miss Betty Herrington of Troy; Delta Pi Nu Miss Winifred Sweet of Yonkers; The guests of the Delta Pi Nu Miss Betty Edsel! of Pelham Man- fraternity will be Miss Lorna Mal- or: Miss Mary Va·n Wickie of Bel- lary, Troy; Miss Peggy McNally, mar, N. J.; Miss Dorothy Alexan· Albany; Miss Rita Hilton, Cohoes; der of Hasbrouck Heights, N. J.; Miss Elva Nealon, Albany; Miss Miss Betty Shannan of Troy; Miss Georgia B. Chonslli, Albany; Miss Ethel May Weeks of Saratoga; Elizabeth Robinson, Troy; Miss Ly- Miss Jean Roulier of Cohoes: Miss dia Wills, Troy; Miss Allee Co:o;te, Yvonne RobE>rts of Northampton, Montreal, Canada; Miss Mild1ed· MaHs.: Miss Peggy Roberts of AI- Murry, Wi!linston Park, L. I.; Miss bany; Miss Eleanor Curtis of East Grace McC!ements, Syracuse; Miss Greenbush; M:iss Lois Walther of Laura C. Clark, Delmar, N. J. Albany; Miss Ruby Clayton of Erie, Pa.; Miss Ma1y Gain of Cohoes; Delta. Upsilon Mr. and Mrs. Oscar B. Babcock of The Delta Upsilon Fraternity Wichitaw, Kansas; and Miss Mar- will have Dr. and Mrs. Godshall guerite Moon, Miss Peggy Burg, and Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Hesson Miss Eleanor Powers, Miss Patricia as chaperons at a dance to be held Carey, Miss Peggy Cuningham and Saturday night, with \Sarge\ Mar- Miss Betty Flinn of Schenectady. shall's band from Gloversville furn- ishing the music. The guests are: Phi Gamma. Delta Miss Mary Alice Shangle of North- The Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity hampton, Mass.; Miss Virginia pla:ns a dance this Saturday eve- Ciea:ves of Rockport, Mass.; Miss ning with Pmfessor and Mrs. Hat- Marie Prindle of Albany: Miss Ruth field and Mr. and Mrs. Eirner as Fitzgerald of Goshen; Mi::ls Ruth chaperones. The music wil be fur- Vette of Richmond Hill, L. I.; Miss nitihed by Ross Nelson and his At· Marjorie Ludlow of Far Hills, N.J.: !antic City Orchestra from 9 till 1. Miss Virginia Flora of Troy; Miss The guests include: Miss Jane Bra- Betty Griffin of Albany; Miss Jan- bersick of Albany; Miss Frances ice Wild of Valatie; Miss Mary Hakes of Van Weiss' Point; Miss North of Walton; Miss Ba:r.bara Ann Brown of Elizabeth, N. J.; Hall of Nassau; and Miss Lillyan Mis::l Marjorie H!tllllin of oBston,. Kollath, Miss Betty Peterson, Miss Mass.; Miss Ann Miter of Quincey, Jane :\ludge, '\'li::ls Jean Doremus, Mass.; :!'.riss Fiances Dearstyle of Mis,; Mary Fitzgibbon, Miss Be a- Oakland, Calif.; Miss Elizabeth trice Dill and Miss Helen Worces- Haigis of Bennington, Vt.; Miss. ter, all of Schenectady. Clarissa Green of Albany; Miss Ruth Overbough and Miss Jean- Kappa Nn neatte Snydel\ of Salindy, N. Y.; The guests of the Kappa Nu fra- Miss Hannah Parker of Hudson; ternity will be Miss Edith Lee Miss Dorothy Taylor of Summit, Freed, Greenwood Lake, N. Y.; N.J.; Miss Cathleen Coe of Spring· Miss Helen Bashexkin, North field, Mass.; M:iss Marion Booth of Adams; Miss Pearl Weinberg, Troy; Miss June Avery Waddington, Philadelphia; Miss Florence Stover- man, Syracuse; Miss Bertha Gold- berg, Albany; Miss Vivian Weis- blum, Troy; Miss Selma Hirs\ch- berg, Troy; Miss Ruth Patter, Al- bany; Miss Sally Singer, Albany: Miss Miriam Adler, Albany; Miss Janet Singer, Albany. FRANK FERRARO Fruit and Produce Wholesale and Retail If it grows, I bave It! 1231 CRANE ST. Tel. 2-7828-W L. F. NICKLAS, INC. Clothing, Furnishings, Hats & Shoes NEW LOCATION 138 JAY STREET PHONE 4-6414 li THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1934 Toledo, Ohio; and Miss Ruth Lom- MAy FEVER : all wintel:;\ Very lnterestinff, n'est- bard, Miss Marjorie Connell and M'U. SIC ce ·pas? Miss Rosina Biggerstaf of Schen- \ ' · It seems quite evident that the \ectady. b Along about .May 1st, something faculty are not immune from the Phi Sigma Kappa . Y seems to happen to us. We talk Promitus germ, for we saw Dutchy The guests of Phi Sigma Kappa Ra\'k.lne 'H'In\?an BIU'Il.es evidently buying a new car ·will be Miss Ann Mock, BFooklyn; \ \\ differently, our think organ does us the other day. The salesman was Miss Laura Buckley, Ridgewood, • ·dirt, and when we •by mistake, do ·having quite a bit of trouble how- N . .T.; Miss Hilda Macinnes, Man- One of the most interesting por- make any of our classes, we find ·ever in ~onvincing Dr. Barnes tlu;l.t hasset; Miss Phyllis O'Leary, Man- tions of the· program which Her- •ourselves playing tit-tat-too with one of the new air-flow jobs would hasset; and Miss Lois WHmot, bert Iiausser and Ruth Flickinger, our neighbors, or drawing pictures not run as well backwards as it Cherry Valley. will give Monday evening is the in our notebooks, and wondering would forward. The professor Psi Upsilon group of Brahms songs. Few com- why we had never before noticed couldn't see why, if the car looked posers have excelled Brahm's out- that Professor Ivan Itch was such the same at both ends, why it The Psi Upsilon Fraternity wil'l pouring of simple, beautiful rnelo- a dry lecturer. Doc Clowe has been couldn't be driven with either end hold an open formal dance from dies, melodies that seem inevitable experimenting on vadous cures, cutting. the wind. He said he had 9 till 1 Saturday evening. Music in their perfect symmetry. but hae met with little success, He' been waiting for inventors\ to put will be by the Knights of Rhythm Yet, original and spontaneous as has found a temporary cur.e how- out some such contraption for some of Amsterdam. The chaperones will Brahms was, he possessed the wis- ever, in turning- the victim over to• time, and when they did,. he we'!;ll'd be Dr. and Mrs. A. Gordon Dewey dom and the power of self criticism Bill Ketz, who pokes his head· out· buy one, for 1;hen he could drive to rand Mr. and Mrs. S. G. H. Turner. and self control to keep his artis-' from behind one of ·his big cigars BRiley Hall' and back Without hav- The guest list includes.: Miss Mar- tic outpouring .from running away ju.st long enough to yap, \Ten laps ing to turn the blame thing around. tha Ferguson of Narbeth, Pa.; Miss with him, The simplest, most na- .aro-und the •big track.\ Spike Mavor Suzanne Conant of Amster.da,m; tural song was carefully worked· believes he has f<Jlmd the cause, M:iss Lucy Turher of Elmira; Miss into a perfect product before the and the discovery came about in Mary Sunshine. :~uiseGDowling of Meridan, Conn.; composer would turn his attention the most peculiar way. He put the . ~,=,.~,mmmm::mmmmmmmmmm;;mmm;;;;m·· .. ···· lu.1ss eraldine Wiehl and Miss to another work. sweetest, and most demure looking Jean Anson of Kenmore; Miss Con- Brahms' Songs female white vinegar fly in with a -,:;'_.!':,!',,, C\\ QR\ SAGES stance Lee of Scarsdale; Miss Win!- Even his simplest songs, there- Gay C8Jballero male who was also . ·~red Horstman of Erie, Pa.; Miss fore, have a peculiar technical in- ·white, and lo and :behold the off- !l!!ary Eggleston of Montclair, N. J.; terest. They are admirably adapted spring were ha:lf white, and half i,_i,_i,, M:iss Alice Blauvent of Montclair, for the voice, the diatonic progres- <black. To quote Dr. Mavor, \this N. i.; Miss Phyllis Wilding of Ny- sions and large being based upon :was most disconcerting, but upon \! ll!ck; Miss Marie Gougalemann of fundamental chcnds of the key so investigation of the demure little New Rochelle; Miss Gladys Ham- as to be taken with ease and .cer- female's ancestry, I found that her ilton of New York; Miss Barbara tainty. The tones are held out and grandmother was smitten by the Walter of Cortland; Miss Virginia the phrase wide-spanned to bring germ \Promitus;'' .and had •been led ·Mackay of Buffalo; Miss Jacqueline out the full' sonority of the voice astray hy n()ne other than Fletcher Dodge of Pittsburgh, Pa.; Miss and to produce an effect of extr:a- Henderson himself, Charlotte Ziegler of Baltimore, Md.;. ordinary nol)ility. Neediess to say, Dr. Chillrud has been working M:iss Bette Brown of Herkimer;· Brahms' songs require unusually on the statistics of the disease, and and Miss Ma:ry Stiefwater of Schen- good breath control. has fm.md that by applying the ectady. .Unusual Accompaniment probable, error of the mean, that it Sigma Chi The accompaniments are quite as always strikes sometime between The guests of the Sigma Chi fra- remarkable as the vocal portions of May 1st and May lOth. He is now ternity will be Miss Ada Vrooman, his worlt. Few composers have sue- gathering data to determine Schenectady; Miss Hope Mal'tin, ceeded so admirably in adapting whether this insidiously uninsipid Rutland, Vt.; Miss Jean Rennie, the solo to the human voice, which affliction strikes both male and fa- Watervliet; Miss Margery Wiltgen, is best in sustained effects, and males alike, or whether it is pecu- Schenectady; 1.\!Iiss Grace Bryson, the accompaniment to the shifting liar to the male in human beings. Schenectady; Miss Leona Malick, figures best suited fOr piano. These The following statement was de- Horseheads, N. Y.; Miss Eleanor figures Brahms build& up largely duced from a questionnaire on .the Frost, Syracuse; Miss Dolores Pitts, upon arpeggios, developed in the subject tried out on a group of 100 Oneonta, N. Y.; Miss Olive Karlsen,· most ingenious and fascinating pat- Skidmore girls. \In spring, young Schenectady; Miss Dorls Dieson, terns, often with a subtle thematic man's fancy lightly turns to what Schenectady; Mrs. Glenn Rapalee, effect. the gil\l ha.s been thinking about Schenectady. Sigma Phi 'I'he Sigma Phi Fraternity will hold a house party over the week- end. The chaperones will be Mr .. and Mrs. William Aydelotte of Schenectady and Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Angle of Cambridge, M:ass. The house guests will be: M:iss Elizabeth Miller of Boston, M:ass.; Miss Gretchen Myers of New York City; Miss Charlotte Ochs of Kalamazoo, Mich.; Miss Rita Van Osen of Rockville Center, L. I.; M:iss Lois .Moore of Huntington, L. L; M:iss Catherine Roberts of North-· hampton, Mass.; Miss Elizabeth Da:vol of Fall River, Mass.; and Miss Elizabeth Bothwell of Garden City, L. I. Theta Delta Chi Chaperones for the Theta Delta Chi fraternity are Dr. and Mrs. Ira B. Hansen. The guests include Miss Carol Wetherbee, New Hartford; Miss Joyce Holden-Smith, Toronto, Ont.; Miss Irma McNary, Cohoes; M:iss Leona Connally, Troy; Miss M:uriel Kanworthy, Amsterdam; Miss Helen Pickford, Boston, Mass.; M:iss Jean. Cooney, Syracuse, and Miss Betty Tempany, Schenectady. Engraving, Rubber Stamps Novelties Calendars, Book Matches, Fans The Acme Press Mol\genstem and Rickman PRINTING I 57 Barrett Street Opposite Strand Theater Diamonds Watches Jewelry , Silverware MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler DIAl\'IOND MERCHANT Expert Watch and Jewelry Repairing Telephone 4-5404 166 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, N.Y. After Your House Dance DANCE to BILLY PIERCE and His 11-Piece Band Straight from the \KAP\ Lodge LOCOMOTIVE CLUB Sunday, May 13, 1934 I :30-4:30 A. M. Assessment One Dollar Frank X. Connelly, Union '35 DUTCH-CLEANING, DYEING 715 State, Opp. Armory Phone 4-3050 (We CaU and Deliver) $1.00 and Up T. J. KING on State St. OPEN EVENINGS CRESCENT GRILL DINING Refreshments of All Kinds DANCING Wed.i Frie & Sat. Evenings 624 STATE ST. THE CAZETTE PRESS Jriutrrs Iii \C'mout Sometine\ AND SEE OUR MODEL DAIRY FARM AT DUANESBURG PINE GROVE DAIRY TELEPHONE 4-7741 WE CO;&Diill'J-Y iNVITE OuR (JUSTOMERS A,ND !~.\HEIR FRIENDS TO DRIVE OUT AND SEE OUR FARM WHERE WE PRODUCE Ou:B OWN GRADE 'A! MILK Wi tor pupli Pub! e1•n01 as jJ GJ.ru Au Edrn the · staff One RobE resp1 edito catio Of com! Boat F.F .and c!10s Prof U~!=l! A::

THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, lVIAY 11, 1934 Nine M L' d { · D d • t. vise the system of the disposition Dear \In Doubt\: C''-:!Of . s ri I 0 r of profits of the various publica- You are both wrong. The paths Oear \Perplexed\: Dear ''Freshman\: Dear \Discouraged\: Of Th Id I f , 35 tions each year. The committee Is were .placed in those· funny posi- Frame her, she i8 worth a for- tune. Hmmm! Meet me at the Blue Do not be In despair. Join the e ·. •o or . composed of Professor Hoadley, tions for the tractor to <plow snow Gate and I will tell you the an- ,;tuft' of the \Srhenectadian.\ · · · · · · , Professor Harold A. Larr.abee, Pro- ' away hom during the winter. ·· --T-\7-' ' \ fessor Raymond Herrick, Clemens. The Chief William McCord was elected edi- Hathaway, Burton Deiack and Wil- * • * The Chief. swer. Tl1e Chief. ~ • * Dear Chief: • * * Dear Chief: 'iam McCord. I just entet·eu college in Feb! u- tor of the Idol, campus literary It was also decided at the same Dear Chief: a1 y, so I don't know my way I have always wu.nLed to follow puplication at the meeting of the meeting to choose a business mana- My girl' wants me .tu many he1 around very well. I have heard journalism as a life occupation, but Publications Board Wednesday aft- ger for The Idol some time next after graduation, and I have nu many stol'ies and 1·umors, though, I have never been good enough to fall prospect of a job. What would you and I would like to aslt you if you make even The Concordiensis. How e.rnoon. Burton Delaclt was chosen · advic;e, know what ic; the matter with Paul can I succeed in following my life ~;tr~~:l:is:h;u::~!e:n::ti:~~ 1936. '[I ;:;;=Q=·;:;;U=E;:;;S;;;T=IQ=N;;;:;;;;· =B;:;;O=X=· ;;;;;;;ll. Dear \At a Loss\: \At a Loss.\ =W;ai;s;s;m;a;n;s;d;o;rf;;;;;;;';'F;r;e;sl;:lm;;a;n;.\;;;a;m;;;b;it;lo;n;.;; Austin Fox, Rankine Hinman, _ . Marry the girl. Any girl that · il' Edmund Stoll and Paul· Belk were would <;Io her own p1oposing will the juniors elected to the editorial give you enough of a job. VISIT staff of The Idol to assist McCord. (Continued fvom Page 4) The Chief. One sophomore and one, fr~shman, Dear \Anxious\: * * * R . obert North and Fe!•dlnand Helm, They are quite harmless; they are 1 · De:J:r Chief: respectively, wei•e aiso elected to the mere Y engmeers. The Chief. I am in a tenible lot of troubl~ editorial staff of the Uterary publi- ,. * • r can not understand the expres- cation. DeTr Chief: sions .on my g-irl's face. She re- Officers were elected for the Will you settle an argument for minds ·me of a lit.tle poem. coming year for the Publications us. \A\ says that the college paths \When your lip~ say no, and yow Boavd at th'e meeting. Dean Charles were placed where they ate be(ause eyes say go, F. F. Garis was reelected president bhey loolt good in an aerial picture. Not even a traffic cop the anmver .and Clemens F. Hathaway was \B\ says they. were put there as could know.\ cl1osen s,s secret~cy of tP.e. poard. guides for the engineers in the Gur- In other words she hae a face as Professor Anthony Hoadley contin- veying of the camjlus, Whi<.h is uisconce1·ting as Monu Lisa. Can The MOHAWK TAVERN Clams and Oysters OUR SPECIALTY 322 State Street Next to Overhead Crossing ues as treasur!}r or the board. cm•rect? you llelp me out? ~i_,._:co_m_· ._rn_. i_t_t~_e_w_a~s-~..::.p..::.p_o_in_t_e_d_t_·o_r_e_-· __ ~ _ _._ _____ \I_n_D_o_u_b_t_.'_' ------------~~l'rp~le_x_l'_d_.\_!'~~~~~~:=~:=:=:=:=~::::::::~:::::=~~-~--==~~==;;;o1.! ._-1 The clean Center Leaves are the m ildest leiiti-S ············· Luckies are aU-wa-y:s kind to your throat As you can see from this picture- Luckies' fine, smooth quality doesn't just happen -for we use only tl1e cletJn cmter !et~ves! Only the clean center leaves-for which farmers are paid higher prices-for the center leaves are the mildest leaves-they taste better. Then-\ It's toasted\- for throat protection. And every Lucky is fully packed with these choice tobaccos- made round and firm- free from loose ends-that's why Luckies \keep in con- dition\- do not dry out. L uc kies are ·always in all-~ kind to your throat. ''It's toasted\ v Luckies are all·ways kind to your throat ,. ' l, .- .. · Only the Center Leaves~ the.se are the Mildest Leaves CopyriJiht, 1934, '.Cile.UOeri~IUI. · CODIPIIDf• The Cl1ief. Enjoy A Cool Refreshing Drink at the NOTT TERRACE GRILL 129 NOTT TERRACE ··.····:····

.. , Ten THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 11, 193-1 Cory Wins Bailey Cup; Three Prizes A·warded Markman essay on an assigned subject, awarded to Ferdinand Helm, Jr .. Schenectady. Robert M. Fuller Sophomore prize, for the sophomore who has given the greatest promise of a suc- cessful career in chemistry, award- ed to Kenneth J. Freder·ick, Scotia. --- (.!\> \ConUnued hom Page 31 I crrl'll prl'pared for them by govern- ment propagandists.\ nor that \they may accept uncritically dog·ruas of tht•il· ancestors\ rathl•l' we do it in on!Pr that \th<'Y may have a: guide to c>onduct, and that thc<y may have! some assistance in the ion:.: and troublesome business of living.'' Discipline Unpopular Now Disc>i}Jlin~. as exempliflcd by good m!l!nners, the usuages uf sudety and the lovl' of fasti·dious language i> none to p0pular now. The reJult h the slangy undergraduate ami thE disrespectful meaninf',· attache.J. tc th<' tl•t·m \hiah-brow\. But •·no ont has ever re';;.ny le~N·ned anythtn~ without subjecting himself to b form of disciplint:', becuuge learn ing is an orderly process, whkh re quires the abandonment of pctsona! p1 <\judice and the dbcipline uf tht wtll to accept new ide:1s ... \ \It is better to be unta ug- lit ~han badly taught\. Despite t h c sentiment1list'~ claims, none of the truly g1·eat hav< been uneducated, continued Dr Coffin. Abraham Lincoln, \the 1do1 of thf' rabid democ1·at\ did not rPach his hl'ights of a~complish ment by native impiration, but b~ a 1 igid and se!f-impo,;ed discipline. The f01·mul t1 aini ng of ,;c houls ma~ not be necessary, but >Something mu:;t take its place, and those ha V· ing to substitute something have had to evolve painstakingly a tech· niqup which could take the place for formal training. The biggest part of Lincoln's gtcatness lies in t hP fact that he 1 ccognized his de- fel'ls and strove to conect them. The First Ste]> The fhsst step, proposed b:; Dr. Coffin, is meeting the challenge of intelligence with which the world is faced, b \a rigid training that leaves nothing to chance, that is analytical, and tbut un~entimental· ly exl'l udes all t hm,;e who m·e not lit for it.\ We must have the cout·age to r.;. ject the democratic dictum that the ,.;ume s01t of education will fit everyone. He said, \Not all rncn are capable of profiting ftom intellec- tual training any more than all men will make equally good musi- cian~. or weight-liftct s, or ju;~glers Dt·. Coffin cautioned futthet·, \In urging men to use their brains in order to take hold of their lives and make something of thetn, ·we cannot afford to over·look the fact that some of our fellow citizens 3-re not now and never will be inteilec- tual, no matter how generously we con:;true that word.\ I·~xamine-s Tt•nchE\l'S Then Dr. Coffin t111·ned to a.n ex· ami nation of the teachers whom he held to be directly ot· indirectly re· sponsible for \most of the achieve mPnts of the wotld, most of those discoveries and generalizations b~ vi1 tue of which man has crept out of the darkness of barbarism into thE' twilight of modern civillzal:nn\. After admitting that the teach· ing profession, 'like others, has It> quota of misfits, incompetents, C'harlatans, and plain rascals\ Dr. Coffin deC'Iar·ed that \it is useles~ to demand intellectuality of stu· drnts when it is not a:lways dis- played by the teachers. It is idle to exort students to follow the life of reason when some of those who are appointed to teach ate them- srlves incapable of recognizing ~uch a lifP. While WP are reforming the world, let us reform the teacher, then perhaps the student will im- prove , •. ' 1 Gnod TE'ftcher Must linmv Suhje<:t A good teacher, said Dr·. Coffin. \must !mow his subject, must be in the Green sense an enthusiast fot it, must be steeped in all possible aspects of the field which he is en· deavot·ing to p1·esent\. But there is more to it than that: \A teacher should be in the best sense a man of the world. S:e should be at home in more countries than his own, he should be familiar with other ideas than those of his own parish. Since he is a ma:n, nothing humo.n should be alien to him, and he should above all be honest, hon· est with his students and particu- larly with himself. The faddist, the dilletante, the poseur, ha~ no place in such a scheme •.. The teacher lilte the student, should be a realist in life. He should be willing to fol· low withersoever the at·gument may !Pad, he should diligently pursue the truth even though he have dif- ficulty in recognizing it, he should not allow his opinions to be warp- Pd by passion, by prejudice, or by mere emotion. These are not im- possible conditions, they have been met in many of the great teachers of the past, and there is no reason to suppose that the present can1tot produce such men .•. \ Take Things Lightly \It is part of the modern ten- dency to take things lightly, to dis- count the old loyalties, the old re- sponsibilities, the old attachtnents,\ said Dr. Coffin, but he pointed out that \without some measure of loy- alty men will get nowhere, with()Ut some attention to the ancient no- tion of d~ty our quest will be fruit- Jess . , • \It is the duty of the teacher to Bailey Cup Winner GEORGI<: R. CORY, JR. Robert M. Fuller Senior prize, for the senior who has shown the most ability in original experimen- tal worlt, awarded to Robert W. Gurry, Alplaus. Archibald Prize Andrew W. Archilhld high schol- arsh-ip prize, for the senior who has 'l.ttained the highest standing in the classical course, awarded to Sidney D. Markman, Brooklyn. Leonard Chester Jones Memorial prize, offered as a memorial by the Schenectad(IT branch of the Alliance : Francaise to the upperclassman in the modern language department with the best record of the year in French, awarded to Gilbert W. Tuclt, Round Lalte. Robet t G. O'Neale prize, offered by Mrs. Anna M. O'Neale of Charlestown, South Carolina, to the <tudent in the division of language and literature taking Latin as one of his major languages who has · the highest standing during his lreat, ami cm·e if possible, those •our years at college, awarded to cases of igno1 ancP which con:e to \lidney D. Markman, B1ook!yn. his attention. it is no les,.; the duty The Louis Oppenheim Class of of the educated man to c1 eate re- '875 Scholarship prize, offered to speet for the ca:;t to which he be- the bachelor of arts candidate in longs ... What if thPsc notion:; are che freshman class taking Latin as old'! Value does not nece~sarily in- vne of his major languages, and here in ideas simply because they who has attained the highest stand- are new and untried _ .. \ 'ng, awarded to Charles H. Reeves, \It i~ thE' duty, then, of the edu- Schenectady. cated men in the countty to demon- Milton Hymes Sternfeld Philoso- str·ate that they have a right to ::>hical prize, for the senior who pre- the! r title by actually duing a little 1ents the best original essay in thinking. Thi:; i:; a ta:;;k rot· the ')hi!osophy, awarded to Leslie R. thinker 1athct than for the so-call- Long, of Schenectady. ed 'pi act.ical' man who often, alas, Turnbull p 1 ·ize does too little thinking and too much pra·cticing .When things are James Henry Turnbull prize in seriously out of o1der it is the the- physics, for the sophomore who has 01·ist who is valuable, because excelled in physics, awarded to W. placed as he is above the dark Bradley Plummer, Toms River, tumult he can Bel:' po~sib:lities N. J. which are unpreceived by the naive The Charles Alexander Rich- man.\ mond prize, awarded to the student In conclusion Dr. Coffin appealed ~xcelling m the fine arts, awarded to ttw :;tudenb, \l Ul ge upon you, to Albert I. Morrison, Jersey City, then. the difficult. even dista~tefu! N. J. task of thinking out your pr·oblems, The William L. Oswald Scholar- of arriving at conclusions on the 'lhip, $250, awarded to Hugh R. basis of intellectual cl'iteria, of u~ Elwyn, '35, Woodstock. ing what influence you possess a~ The Chester T. Thorne Scholar- educated men to bt·ing the intellect ~hip, $200, awarded to Seymour A. ..tal life into somewhat g1 eater es· Horwitz, '35, Schenectady. teem than it now enjoys ... \ Cornelia Veeder Scholarship, $200, The complete list of prizes and awarded to Donald B. Moulton, \35 scholarships awarded follows: Schenectady. Frank Bailey Cup, fO!\ the senior Horace B. Silliman Scholarship, who has rendered the greatest serv- $300, awarded to Leonard Eisen- ice to Union College in any field, bud, '35, Elizabeth, N. J. awarded to George R. Corry, Jt·., Daniel F. Pullman Scholarship, Oradell, N. J. $120, awarded to Frank P. Champ, Josephine Daggett prize, for the '35, Scotia. ,;enior excelling in conduct and Frank B. and Johnson Ide Snell ~haracter without respect to schol- Scholarship, $200, for a student arship, awarded to Daniel F. Flinn, working his way through college, II. Schenectady. awarded to Robert L. Slobod, '35, Horatio G. Warner prize. for the Schenectady. senior in the classical course who Robert M. Fuller Medical Schol- reaches the highest standing in the arships, $150 e'ach, to be used in performance of collegiate duties Union University Medical School, and also sustains the best charac- awarded to George J. Zippin, '34, ter foi· moral rectitudes and deport- Albany; Joseph B. Cortesi, '34, ment without regard to religious Schenectady. practice or profession, awarded to William C. Saxton Scholarship, Sidney D. Markman, Brooklyn. $150, to be used in the law school Williams F. Allen prize. for the division of Union University, best senior essay on any subject awarded to Albert W. DeMatteo, awarded to Paul Wassmansdorf, '34, Schenectady. , Scotia. Samuel Sherwood Wakeman George F. Allison-Walla.ce T. Scholarship, $300, offered to a stu- Foote prizes for the three students dent in any division who is a resl- who have contributed most to the dent of Saratoga County, N. Y., participation of Union College In awarded to Clarence Clark, '36, intercollegiate debating, awarded to Ballston Spa. Thomas J. Crowley, Jr., Schenec- tady; Robert H. Smith, Catskill; Milton Schwebel, Troy. Pullmart Prize Daniel F. Pullman Classical prize, fm· the highest standing A. B. student, who is a member of the Methodist Church, awarded to Charles S. Bl'idgman, Rochester. Daniel F. Pullman Engineering prize, for the highest standing en- gineering student who Is a member of the Methodist Church, awarded to Joseph Horvath, Jr., Farming· dale. Wessel Ten Brueck Van Orden prize, for the freshman excelling in English composition and a special NICHOLA US THE OLD RELIABLE For Over 40 Years Foods--Drinks BECAUSE IT IS DEPENDABLE BRANDHORST'S IS A TRUSTED DRUG STORE BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner\ Union St. and Gillespie Edw. H. Brandhorst Reg. Pharmacist Leland E. Brandhorst Reg. Pharmacist Hauss .or to A· p·pea.·r .pressi.ve in effect. which is shortly '-' followed by the estabJ.Jshment of In Concert Monday· I, t ..... he_b_..r_ig-ht_k_e_y _of_· E_• _m_a_jo_r. _ _. ... Glee Club Roloist Will Olfel' THE PROGRAM Vision Fgitive ......... Massenet 0 God Have Mercy .. Mendelssohn At Times My Thoughts.Brahms My Queen ....... _ ....... Brahms ProgTam From sohn, Brahms, Mendels- Massenet , · 0 Shady Wood ......... Brahms 'l'wo arias by Mendelssohn and Masse net and a Brahms gt oup are outstanding on the .program which Herbert Hausser, balitone soloist of the Glee Club, will sing in his fi1·st major public concet t Monday eve- ning. He wm be assisted by Ruth Flickinger, who is to play Bonnet's \Concert Var•iations\ for organ and a group of pia.no selections. Tickets may be procured at fifty cents for the concert, which !s to be given In the Trinity .Methedist Church at ·The Smith .............. Brahms Bend Low ................. Spealts · May Day Carol. .. Deems Taylor bong Ago ............ MacDowell Don Juan's Set•enade - ............ , ... Tschailwwsky · Herbert Hausser Allegro ............... Cyril Scott Danseuses de 'Delphes .. Debussy I!Jtude en Forme Valse- ................... Saint Sa ens Coneett Variations ....... Bonnet Miss Flicldnger 8:30 p. rn. . ~;;;:;:;:~~~;;;:;:;;;~;;;;;~:;,;;: Hausser, who has been the vegu- ~~- Jar soloist and student leadel' of · t the Glee Club this year, has had a g1·eat deal of solo experience, both outside of the College and with the Union College Choir. He intends to enter the Yale Divinity School and also study at the Yale School .of Music in the fall. HALl<' ISOLE!\l nt ................... .. 79c Especially of interest in the Brahms gr-oup is \At 'l'lmes My Thoughts Corne Drifting,\ a song dating from the last period of the composer's .Jife when his technical skill was wondet·fully developed. In addition to the lovely melody, which is a characteristic example of Brahms' Inventive skill, the fluent grace and independence of the wide arpeggios upon which the ac- companiment is built are noticeable. In spite of their swooping freedom these arpeggios combine with the vocal part to form a closely uni- fied whole. I•'ULL SOLES, $2 25 Inclu:lh1g h::-els . . . . • In \My Queen,'' one of Brahms' splendid love songs which Hausser· will sing, there exists a ·remarlmble illustration of how the music may be made to refleyt not only the gen- eral mood of the poem, but also the : special color of certain words. At the beginning of the third stanza there is an obviously intentional change to the minor key, very ex:- RUBRE!R 01' CREPE FULL SOLES~ $2 50 IncJuding heels ... , . • Golf Cal1111 Att:lched White Rhoes Cll'aned-25c '\Ve curl'Y a comt>lt te line of wll!ite polishrs. The Wallace Coa Phone 4-7711 Basement SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY. INC. 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY. NEW YORK THE FARM and the COUNTRY CLUB RESTAURANTS Tasty Sandwiches Our Specialty DANCING AT THE COUNTRY CLUB ON SATURDAY NITE UNTIL 3 A. M. Operated by Connelly Bros. Call Ball ~ ONE DAY SERVICE ANY DAY Get Your Suits Cleane·d and Pressed NOW! 633 STATE ST. PH,ONE 2-345b The New PALM BEACH Sport Models If you want to go to Prom this Spring get yourself one of the new Palm Beach Suits. We're showing them in suits and ensembles ... in Norfo!ks and belted backs with free play shoulders. -New Weaves -Shetland Effects -Cord Weave -Herringbones $18.50 JOSEPH'S Stan. Joseph, Union r21 Un Psi For ex1ste -ItS OV ·Clses HS, 19 CO!leg tlun, 1 tors a tne lVJ mg ·eJ l!..uer) eire~~. tne c 10ng 1 tne a uay, ;ne t morm The hocKE tne ;; tembE actua ,;port Ar openE net 1 l:lepte ora t• ::;easo comn srden team title. It that bers, Cni01 had avera it wa :;ucce piled Th• fully 7 by footb tory \Chi! toucr On near! man~ town eel I give pel. spell' some were of U Th open third Midc The victc dO WI hanc In the cha11 eral of tl The lowe with Chri E1 Coll• deat prof curr wee! beer year mad Uni< tady Fi Gur Sitn elec tion ing Ren scor thP Fie! tinu ing on also on 0 turr con A in I on firs for Yot thr• exc fea ed cou wid rna on

T.en THE CONCO:EtDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1934 C W • B •1 c Th essay on an assigned subject, 0 ry IDS al ey ' up. ·, ree awarded to Ferdinand Helm, Jr., Schenectady. P e A d d M k Robert M. Fuller Sophomore . . f· l•Z e S w· ar ·e · ar man prize, for the sophomore who has given the greatest promise of a suc- Hau.'sser t ·O Appear · press!ve in effect, which is. sho:rtly . . followed l;Jy t:l)e establishment a·~ In Concert Monday the bright key of El major. THE PJ;tO(}RA:M: ~---------------------------- cessful career In chemistry, awa1•d- ed to Kenneth J. Fredericlt, Scotia, Robert M. Fuller Senior prize, Glee Club S(}loist Will Offer Prngmm From Mendels- sohn, Brahms, Massenet Vision Fgltive .. , ... , .. Massenet 0 God Have Mercy .. Mendelssohn At Times My Thoughts .. Brahms My Queen. , .........•... Brahms (Continued from Page 3} creed prepared for them by govern- ment propagandists,\ nor that \they may accept uncrlticully dogmas of their ancestors\ rather we do it in order that \they may have a guide to conduct, and that they may have some assistance in the long and troublesome business of living.\ Discipline Unpopular Now DiscipHn~, as exemplified by good manners, the usuages of society and the Jove of fastidious language is none to popular .now. The re;ult h tho slangy undergraduate and thE disrespectful meaning attached tc the term \high-brow\. But \no un< has ever really lenrned anythmg without subjecting himself to a form ol' discipline, because learn ing is an orderly process, which· re quires the abandonment of pe1·sonat prejudice and the discipline of tht will to accept new ideas ... \ \It is bette1· to be untaught than badly taught\. Despite the sentimentJ.lisn claims. none of the truly great havt been uneducated, continued Dl'. Coffin. Abra:ham Lincoln, \the idol of the ra,bid democt·at\ did not reach his heights of accomplish· ment by native inspiration, but by a rigid and self-imposed discipline. The formal training of schools may not be necessary, but something must take its place, and those ha:v- ing to substitute something have had to evolve painstakingly a tech- nique which could take the place for formal training. The biggest part of Lincoln's greatness lies in the fact that he recognized his de- fects and strove to correct them. The First Step The ftrsst step, proposed b:; Dr. Coffin, is meeting the challenge of intelligence with which the world is faced, is. \a rigid training th:~.t leaves nothmg to chance, that IS analytJcal, and that un>Jentimental- ly excludes all those who are not fit for it.\ We must have the courage to r.:- ject the democratic dictum that the >Jame sort of education will fit everyone. He said, \Not all men are capable of profiting from intellec- tual training any more than all men will make equally good musi- cians, or weight-lifters, or ju~glers Dr. Coffin cautioned furthel', \In urging men to use their brain~ in order to take hold of their lives and make something of them, ·we cannot afford to overlook the fact that some of our fellow citizens -\.1e not now and never will be inteilec- tual, no matter how generously we construe that word.\ Examint'ls Teachers Then Dr. Coffin turned to an ex- amination of the teachers whom he held to be directly or indirectly re· sponsible for \most of the aehieve ments of the world, most of tlwse discoveries and generalizations b~ virtue of which man has crept out of the darkness of barbarism into the twilight of mode1'n civilizatl:>n\. After admitting tha:t the teach- ing profession, 'lilte others, has tt£ quota of misfits, incompetents, charlatans, and plain rascals\ Dr. Coffin declared that \it is useless to demand intellectuality of stu- dents when it is not always dis- played by the teachers. It is idle to exort students to follow the life of reason when some of those who are appointed to teach are them- selves incapable of recognizing Puch a life. While we are reforming the world, let us reform the teachet·, then perhaps the student will im- prove , •. \ Good Teacher Must l{n9w Subject A good teacher, said Dr. Coffin, \must know his subject, must be in the Green sense an enthusiast fot it, must be steeped in all possible aspects of the field which he is en- deavoring to present\. But there is more to it than that: \A teacher should be in the best sense a man of the world. Be should be at home in more countries than his own, he should be familiar with other ideas than those of his own parish. Since he is a ma:n, nothing human should be alien to him, and he should above all be honest, hon- est with his students and particu- larly with himself. The faddist, the dilletante, the poseur, has no place in such a scheme ... The teachez like the student, should be Ill realist in life, He should be willing to fol- low withersoever the argument may lead, he should diligently pursue the truth even though he have dif- ficulty in recognizing it, he should not allow his opinions to be warp- ed by passion, by prejudice, or by mere emotion. These are not im- possible conditions, they have been met in many of the great teachers of the past, and there is no reason to suppose that the present cannot produce such men ... \ Take Tbing.s Lightly \It is part of the modern ten- dency to take things lightly, to dis- count the old loyalties, the old re- sponsibilities, the old attachments,\ said Dr. Coffin, but he pointed out that \without some measure of loy- alty men will get nowhere, without some attention to the ancient no- tion of duty our quest will be fruit- less ... \ \It Is the duty of the teacher to Bailey Cup Winner 0 Shady Wood., ........ Brahms The Smith, ...... , ...... Bt,ahms ' for the senior who has shown the most ability in original experimen- tal work, awarded to Robert W. Gurry, Alplaus. Archibald Prize Two arias by Mendelssohn and , Bend Low. , ......... , .... Spealts GEORGE R. CORY, JR. 9 Massenet and a Brahms g1oup are Andrew W. At,chioald high schol- outstanding on the program which , arship prize, for the senior who has Herbert Hausser, b:hitone soloist of <tttained the highest standing in the the Glee Club, will sing in his first classical course, awarded to Sidney major public conce1t Monday eve- D. Markman, Brooklyn, nlng. He will be assisted by Ruth Leonard Chester Jones Memorial Flickinger, who is to play Bonnet's prize, offered as a memorial :by the \Concert Variations\ for organ and Schenectady branch of the Alliance a group of piano selections. Tickets Francaise to the upperclassman in may be procm:ed at fifty cents for the modern language department the concert, which is to be given with the best record of the year in In the Trinity Methodist Church at French, awarded to Gilbert W. 8:30 p. m. Tuck, Round La:ke. Hausser, who has been the regu- Robett G. O'Neale p~ize, offered Jar soloist and student leadet• · of by Mrs. Anna M. O'~eale of the Glee Club this year, has had a . Charlestown, South Carolina, to the great deal of solo experience, both ;tudent in the division of language outside ot the College and with the and literature taking Latin as one Union College Choir. He intends to of his major languages who has enter the Yale Divinity School and the highest standing during his also study at the Yale School of treat, and cure if possible, those ~our years at college, awa:rded to Music in the fall. ca:ses of igno1 ance which con:e to 3idney D. Markman, B1odklyn. Especially of interest in the · his attention, it is no less the duty The Louis Oppenheim Class of Brahms group is \At Times My of the educated man to create re- '875 Scholarship pr.ize, offered to Thoughts Co:trte Drifting,\ a song . spect for the cast to which he be- the bachelor of arts candidate in dating from the 'last period of the longs ... What if these notions are ~he freshman class taking Latin as composer's life when his technical old? Value does not necessa1 ily in- one of his major languages, and skill was wonderfully developed. In here in ideas simply because they who has attained the highest stand- addition to the lovely melody, wl;lich are new and untried ... \ 'ng, awarded to Charles H. Reeves, is a characteristic example of \It is the duty, then, of the edu- Schenectady. Brahms' inventive sltill, the fluent cated men in the country to demon- Milton Hymes Sternfeld Philoso- g1·ace and independence of the strate that they ha:ve a right to ;Jhical prize, for the senior who pre- wide arpeggios upon which the l).C- their title by actually doing a little 1ents the best original essay in companiment is built are noticeable. thinking. This is a task ror the ?hilosophy, awarded to Leslie R. In spite of their swooping fl:eedom thinker rather than for the so-call- Long, of Schenectady. these arpeggios combine with the ed 'p1actica!' man who often, alas, Turnbull Prize vocal part to form a closely uni- does too little thinking and too fled whole. much pra:cticing .When things are James Henry Turnbull prize in In \My Queen,\ one of Brahms' seriously out of mder it is the the- physics, for the sophomore who has splendid love songs which Hausser orist who is valuable, because excelled in physics, awarded to W. will sing, there exists a ·remarkable placed as he is above the dark Bradley Plummer, Toms River, illustration of how the music may tumult he can see possibilities N. J. be made to 1'eflect not onlY the gen· which are unpreceived by the naive The Charles Alexander Rich- era! mood of the' poem, but also the man.\ mond prize, awarded to the student special color of cer.tain words. At . May Day Carol. .. Deems Taylor ~oqg· _.<\go .. ,, ....... ,MacDowell . · · Don Juan's Serenade~ ............. , .. Tsch!J.ilwwsky Herbert Hausser Allegro ...... , .. , ..... Cyril Scott Danseuses de De1phes .. Debussy ·Etude en Forme Valse- ··· ................. Saint Saens Concer.t Variations ....... Bonnet · Miss Flicltinget; ~f~. ~.~~·.~~: ........... 79c FULL SOLES, $2 zs· Inclm1ing l1~els . . . . o , RUBBER 01' CREPE FULL SOLES~ $2 5·0· · ·Including heels . . .. . o ' Golf Cnlks Attached White Shoes Cleaned-25c We cnl'l'y a comph te line of whlte polishes. The Walla.ce Coa Phone 4-7711 Basement In conclusion Dr. Coffin appealed exce11ing m the fine arts, awarded the beginning of the third stanza to the ::;tudents. \l utge upon you, to Albert I. Morrison, Jersey City, .there is .an obviously intentional then, the difficult, even distasteful N. J. change to the minor key, very ex- task of thinking out your problems, The William L. Oswald Scholar• --;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ of arriving at conclusions on the ~hip, $2~0, awarded to Hugh R. li basis of intellectual criteria, of u;. Elwyn, '35, Woodstock. ing what influence you possess aE The Chester T. Thorne Scholar- educated men to bring the intellect ~hip, $200, awarded to Seymour A. ual life into somewhat greater es· Horwitz, '35, Schenectady. teem than it now enjoys ... \ Cornelia Veeder Scholarship, $200, '!'he complete list of prizes and awarded to Donald B. Moulton, \35 scholarships awarded follows: Schenectady. Frank Bailey Cup, for the senior Horace B. Silliman Scholarship, who has rendered the greatest serv- $300, awarded to Leonard Eisen- ice to Union College in any field, bud, '35, Elizabeth, N. j, · awarded to George R. Corry, Jr., Daniel F. Pullman Scholarship, Oradell, N. J. $120, awarded to Frank P. Champ, Josephine Daggett prize, for the '35, Scotia. SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANYI INC. 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK >enior excelling in conduct and Frank B. and Johnson Ide Snell .!haracter without respect to schol- Scho.larship, $200, for a student arship, awarded to Daniel F. Flinn, working his way through college, II, Schenectady. awarded to Robert L. Slobod, '35, ·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Horatio G. Warner prize, for the Schenectady. ~ denior in the classical course who Robert M. Fuller Medical Schol- reaches the highest standing in the arships, $150 each, to be used in performance of collegiate duties ·Union University Medical School, and also sustains the best charac- awarded to George J, Zlppln, '34, ter for moral rectitudes and deport- Albany; Joseph B. Cortesi, '34, ment without regard to religious Schenectady. practice or profession, awarded to William C. Saxton Scholarship, Sidney D. Marlcman, Brooklyn. $150, to be used in the law school Williams F. Allen prize, for the division of Union University, best senior essay on any subject l:J.Warded to Albert W. DeMatteo, awarded to Paul Wassmansdorf, '34, Schenectady. . · ·, Scotia. Samuel Sherwood Wakeman George F. Allison-Wallace T. Scholarsb.ip, $300, offered to a stu- Foote prizes for the three students dent in any division who is a resi- who have .contributed most to the dent of Saratoga County, N: Y.,. participation of Union College in awarded to Clarence Clark, '36, intercollegiate debating, awarded to Ballston Spa. Thomas J. Crowley, Jr., Schenec- ------~------------'-----'----­ tady; Robert H. Smith, Catskill; Miiton Schwebel, Troy. Pullman Prize Daniel F. Pullman Classical prize, for the highest standing A. B. student, who is a member of the Methodist Church, awarded to Charles S. Bt•idgman, Rochester. Daniel F. Pullman Engineering prize, for the highest standing en- gineering student who is a member of the Methodist Church, awarded to Joseph Horvath, Jr., Farming- dale. 'Wessel Ten Broeck ·Van Orden prize, for the freshman excelling in English composition and a special NIC_HOLAUS THE OLD RELIABLE For Over 40 Years Foods--Drinks BECAUSE IT IS DEPENDABLE BRANDHORST'S IS A TRUSTED DRUG STORE BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner\ Union St. and Gillespie Edw. H. Brandhorst Reg. Pharmacist Leland E. Brandhorst Reg. Pharmacist THE FARM and the COUNTRY CLUB REST AU RANTS Tasty Sandwiches Our Specialty· DANCING A 'J'I THE COUNTRY CLUB ON SATURDAY NITE UNTIL 3 A. M. Operafed by Connelly Bros. Call Ball 5I ...... - ... ONE DAY SERVICE ANY DAY Get Your Suits Cleaned and Pressed ' . NOW! 633 STATE ST. PHONE 2-3456 The New PALM BEACH Sport Models If you want to go to Prom this Spring get yourself one of the new Palm Beach Suits. We're showing them in suits and ensembles .. , in Norfolks and belted backs with ftee . play shoulders, -. New Weaves -Shetland Effec:ts -'-Cord Weave -.Herringbones s1a.so JOSEPH'S Stan. Joseph, Union '21 Unl Psi F0r i ex1sten ItS OWl ctses ( liS, Hill college uon, u: nors ar tne Me tng eXI .11.uery aress. tne co mng a: tne at i!ay, 1 <·he ht mornir The hocKe~ tne st· tembei actual ~port' A ra openec net Ia :,le.pten ora. to season comm1 ~tderal team title. It ',1 that I bers, C'nion had v avera~ it was ~ucceo p1Ied The fully 1 1 by ' footba tory • \Chip' touch( On near!~ many towns eel D given pel. 1 spellb some were of thE The openi1 third Middl The t victor down hand• In the s chan~ eral v of tho The, lowed witho Chris Evt Colle! death profe curre week been years made Unio1 tady. Fiv Gurr Sitne elect• tions ing Renr score the ( Field tinue ing t on t also on tl On turn' COml A in hi on r first fort You I thro· exce feat' ed e cour. wide mad on 2

THE CONCOIWIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 11, 193..! Eleven Union Plan, Ellery's Administration, Election of Fox, Psi Upsilon Centennial High Spots of College l\larcel Dupre Here On the evening of Octubet 9, nearly half the student body and many members of the faculty and townsfollt turned out to hear Mar- cel Dupre, world famous organist, give a recital in the Memorial Cha- pel. M. Dupre held his audience spellbound with his rendition of some of the submitted themes which were presented to him by members of the audience. The freshman football team, opening Coach Nelson Nitchman·~ third season, earned a tie with the Middlebury frosh on October 14. The harriers tut·ned in theil second victory but the football team went down to overwhelming defeat at the hands of a strong Amherst eleven. In their meeting of October 18, the student councilmen saw fit to change the fte:;hman rules, for sev- eral weeks a sore point in the minds of the editors of the Concordiensis. The yearlings were henceforth al- lowed to smoke and to go around without their frosh cap::; after the Christmas recess. Dr. Jones Passes Away Everyone connected with Union College was deeply saddened at the death of Dr. Leonard Chester Jones, professor of history, which oc- curred after a brief illness of one week on October 21. Dr. Jones had been with the college for twelve years and during that time had made innumerable friends both in Union and in the City of Schenec- tady. Fiv\ seniors, John Gurry, Robert Gurry, Joseph Horvath, Juliuo> J. Sitney and Donald Vroman were elected to Sigma Xi at the fall elec- tions on October 26. On the follow- ing Saturday Union's arch rival, Rennselaer Polytechnic Institute, scored its first gridiron victory over thE' Garnet since 1928 on Alexander Field. The cross country team con- tinued its winning :otreak by beat- ing the engineers by a perfect score on the same day while the fresh also defeated the Trojan freshmen on the gridiron. On November 14 the harriers turned in their fifth victory, thus completing a perfect season. Union Plan AnnouncE'd Divisional ChairmPn Namf'd Final preparations for the Union Plan were made with the announce- ment of the divisional chairman on February 13. Dea !1. Charles F. F. Garis, was appointed head of the division of mathematics and sci- ence, while Dean Ernst Berg was honored with a similar position with the division of engineering. Dr. Earl E. Cummins, who had been chairman of the committee which fathered the Union Plan was appointed chairman of the division of social studies while Dr. Harri- son C. Coffin was placed at the head of the division of languages and literature. A widely acclaimed forward step in higher education was announced on November 11. when Dr. Ellery first made public the Union plan for the Intellectual Advancement of Youth. Entrance requirements were ~· ;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;======;:;;;:;~ thrown to the winds with the sole I exception of English. This latter feature of the Union Plan was laud- ed editorially by newspapers of the country. Union received country- wide recognition for the move it made in placing college education on a bao>is whereby students could TUXEDOS RENTED for all social events EXPERT TAILORING Cleaning and P1·essing St>rvicP THE ELITE TAILOR 516 Union Street DANCING EVERY EVENING I 0 to Closing CONTIS COLONIAL CLUB ORCHESTRA NO MINIMUM-NO COYER PELOP·s REST AU RANT 438 STATE STREET Advertising two-handed hand . IS one vertisement . 15 the \Minimum Prices at Minham's,, CROFUT-KNAPP HATS CLOTHING MINHAM•s MEN•s SHOP 179 JAY STREET Just Around the Corner from State Street Minham Harrison PhonE' 4-2544 You will appreciate the friendly atmosphere of this charming room and the wide variety of beverages and mixed drinks served.

THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1934 Union Plan, Ellery's Administration, Election of Fox, Psi Upsilon Centennial High Spots of College Year For the first time in 138 years of . study what they were best adapted extstence, Unwn College was unaer 1 for. 1ts own root at the openmg exe,- 1 Noven:ber 14 was Alum~i. Day at ctses of the college on ::::.eptemoer which t1me many tratermtres held .ns, J:l:llHI. llivery aepartment oL tne dances. The varsity 1ootball team cotlege-stenograpnezs, act-mintstla- deteated Rochester 'by a score of 13 uon·, ·tactUty, stuaents, ammm, Jant- to 0 in a &nowstorrn. A gnashing tors and .gardeners we·,·e present tn defeat. was handed the Garnet in tne Memo11a1 cnape! at. tues~ open-· the closing game of the sea,;on, this mg exercrses at wmch lJr . .ll.Uw<uu time by HamHton. .l!.ltery aeHvered Ute princ1pa1 aa- Psi Upsilt>n Centennial aress. Although· evetyone 1e•t tnat Psi Upsilon celebrated its one tne conege ~as m ~~re hands a\ hundredth anniversary duri·ng the lOng as lu. lliuery was at the ne,m, week of Novem·ber 20\24. Hundreds tne absence or J.Jr. !' 1 anK .l:\ar:Ker of mem,bers of the fra.termty in- vay, z-ettred presrdent, was 1e1t m eluding such notables as Han. \·he hearts or tnose presem tuat. George H. Moses., Professor William mornmg. Lyon Phelps, and Dr. Noble Mac- The reinstatement of varsity Cracken were present for the cele- hocKey was succe~smlly voted m bration. The fraternity presented a tne student body meetmg Of :::.ep- new seat of stone around the flag- tember :!<> • .1:' or several n,omns Lne pole to the college. actual status ot this ever popula-r Charles L. \Chtp\ Da.Jn was elect- sport. was somewhat in aoubt. ed to captain the 1934 football team Eleven Ties Wesleyan dt a meeting of the leetermen on .A rather underrated football team November 215. At the same time, William Brockwehl and GHdo M-i- opened rts season carrying tne Uaz- rate, both members of the class of net laure'ls and tied yvesteyan on 1935, was chosen to .Jead .the cross- :,leptember 30. In vzew or tne zec- ora tor the Garnet gridmen ror tne country team for ne:xt yea-r. season of 1933, this oraw was qmte Bi-Weeldy Student :Body Meetings commendable if one takes znto con- Owing to the fact that attendance s1deratron that the same Wesleyan· at student body meetings had fal- team later won the Little 'l'nree len. off to a low standard, a motion title. was passed that student body meet- It was announced on October 4 mgs be held on alternate Mondays that Delta Upsilon, wtth 41 mem- on Noveinber 27. At the same time bers, the largest fraternity at the student body president was giv- L:nion in th'.l cortege year l\J::SZ-1933, en the discretionary power to auto- had won the Berg Cup w1th an matically ts,ble a motion. average of 9.034. At the same time The fi.rst basketball game since it was announced that tor the third Nelson NHchman was made head ~ucce&sive yeaor Kappa Nu had com- coach of the sport, resulted in a prled the highest actual average. victory for Union over Middlebury The ctoss-country team success- fully opened its season on October 1 by defeating Vermont, while the football team turned in its first vic- tory of the season over Hobart. \Chip\ Dain starred with three touchdowns. by a 35-31 score. Union basketball fans saw, for the first time a brand new type of basketball. Coach Nitchman had replaced an old- fashioned game with a new, speedy type of game. Marcel Dupre Here On the evening of Octobet 9, nearly half the student body and many members of the faculty and townsfolk turned. out to hear Mar- cel Dupre, world famous organist, give a recital in the Memorial Cha- pel. M. Dupre held his audience spellbound with his rendition of some of the submitted themes which were presented to him by members of the audience. George Stroebel and Ralph Cohen, a junior and a freshman re- spectively, starred in the fall pro- ductions of the Mountebanks, \The Second Shepherd's Play\ and \Everyman presented in the Mountebanks' theater in Hanna Hall on December 3 and 9. The freshman football team, opening Coach Nelson Nitchman's third season, earned a tie with the Middlebury frosh on October 14. The harriers turned in thei1 second victory but the football team went down to overwhelming defeat at the hands of a strong Amherst eleven. In their meeting of October 18, the student councilmen saw fit to change the fre~hman rules, for sev- eral weeks a sore point in the minds of the editors of the Concordiensis. The yearlings were henceforth al- lowed to smoke and to go around without their frosh caps after the Christmas recess. Dr. Jones Passes Away Everyone connected with Union College was deeply saddened at the death of Dr. Leonard Chester Jones, professor of history, which oc- curred alter a brief illness of one week on October 21. Dr. Jones had been with the college for twelve years and during that time had made innumerable .friends both in Union and in the City of Schenec- tady. Fivt seniors, John Gurry, Robert Gurry, Joseph Horvath, Julius J. Sitney and Donald Vroman were elected to Sigma Xi at the fall elec- tions on October 26. On the follow- ing Saturday Union's arch rival, Rennselaer Polytechnic Institute, scored its first gridizon victory over the Garnet since 1928 on Alexander Field. The cross country team con- tinued its winning streak by beat- ing the engineers by a perfect score on the same day while the frosh also defeated the Trojan freshmen on the gridiron. On November 14 the harriers turned in their fifth victory, thus completing a perfect season. Union Plan Announced A widely ·acclaimed forward step in higher education was announced on November 11, when Dr. Ellery first made public the Union plan for the Intellectual Advancement of Youth. Entrance requirements were thrown to the winds with the sole exception of English. This latter feature of the Union Plan was laud- ed editorially by newspapers of the country. Union received country- wide recognition for the move it made in placing college education on a ba;;is whereby students could Sing Christmas Carols The Memorial Chapel was filled to capacity on Sunday, December 17, when the college Y ~ponsored singing of Christmas Carols for the first time. This fea.ture had proved popular at other colleges and will be continued in the future. Professor Frederick Bronner sub- mitted a report on December 19 which advocated the abolition of Pl Gamma Mu, honorary .political science fraternity, after a campaign begun in the editorial columns of The Concordiensis had been under way for several weeks. At the same time it was announced by the stu- dent council that a permanent tax committee for the appropriation of :student taxes would be established. This committee will have the power to consult all student organizations on their budgets and have the final say as to appropriations. Dr. Richmond Visits Campus Dr. Charles Alexander Richmond, president-emeritus, visited the cam- pus and delivered the first sermon of the new year in Memorial Cha- pel on January 7. The college Y, engaging in one of its most active years, began a series of forums by members of the faculty on January 17. The series of forums were to be on topics of special interest to students and faculty. Forty-two members of the Glee Club made a trip to Oswego and Watertown on February 9 and 10. The college songsters were well re- ceived at both concerts. Divisional Chairmen Nam~>d Final preparations for the Union Plan were made with the announce- ment .of the divisional chairman on February 13. Dean Charles F. F. Garis, was appointed head of the division of mathematics and sci· ence, while Dean Ernst Berg was honored with a similar position with the division of engineering. Dr. Earl E. Cummins, who had been chairman of the committee which fathered the Union Plan was appointed chairman of the division of social studies while Dr. Harri- son C. Coffin wa.s placed at the head of the division of languages and literature. TUXEDOS RENTED for all social events EXPERT TAILORING Cleaning and Pressing ServicP THE ELITE TAILOR 516 UniOII Street DANCING EVERY EVENlNG I 0 to Closing CONTIS COLONIAL CLUB ORCHESTRA NO MINIMUM-NO COVER PELOP'S REST AU RANT 438 STATE STREET Advertising . IS two-handed one hand . IS the merchant's ad- vertisement the other the trade you give to him ... One hand washes the other. a campaign for ~everal weeks for a line coach to a·~sist Head Coach Elliot Hatfield with the var~ity eleven. The Student Council had joined in the cry with the result that on April 20 H wa~ announced by Dr. Ellery that two line coaches had been procured for the 1934 sea- son. Arthur Lawrence. outstanding Purdue center, and C. Edward Ca·ntrHI, formerly of the University of Michigan were the gentlemen procured. For the first time in two seasons, the varsity basebai'l team had play- ed an errorless game. It was against Stevens on April 22. Jim Loomis, '35, blanked the engineers in this game with three scattered hits. Wold Speaks in Washington Eleven RANDOM OBSERVATIONS (Continued from Page 2) to the men. It a:H works in a very vicious circle. Well then, soon there was more silk than. the women themselves could wear. That caused the de- pression. So now the Japanese wan.t to fight the whole world; and they will; what is more they will win! And when they win they will make the whole world buy si'lk Thus it is that men even give their lives because of women. All men could really Hve in peace and nev- er hurt each other at all if the·re were no women. JAPANESE SILK Dr. Peter :1. Wold, professor of Physics, spoke before the National I suppose no one will see this Academy of Science at Washington point of view at all so will the oil Apri·l 24 at which time he made women this weekend turn the heads the statement that the velocity of of the churlish youth who had light is decreasing and that the come to hear of better things. How end of the world would come in . can I convince the men of the evil about $1,700,000,000 years. of women.? The conspiz:acy of the Union has seen an active yeaz· women is too strong to combat which will be brought to a tempo• with mere words. tary close after this week end is BROCCOLI AND PROVERBS- over. Junior Prom tonight, prom- If only I had their power, or ises to be a gala affair with the could be a woman even for one melodies of Fletcher Henderson and day I might then be able to con- Willard Alexander. vince the race of mankind of the ------0--- EDITOR'S NOTICE purposelessness and slavery of their lives. The Italians have a proverb; for they are a wise people: Tira piu un pelo di vaccax: ehe mille cavalli. A SINGLE HAIR OF A WOMAN CAN PULL MORE THAN A THOUSAND HORSES. \Minimum Prices at Minham's\ CROFUT-KNAPP HATS CLOTHING MINHAM'S MEN'S SHOP 179 JAY STREET Just Around the Corner from State Street Minham Harrison Phone ~2544

..• Twelve THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, 1\IAY 11, 1934 Mountebanks Have Enjoyed Season Of Success, Presenting Five Plays \Everyman\ and \The Lost Silk: powerful of modern dramas, H was I Thomas J. Crowley '34 and Joseph Hat,\ by Lord Dunsany, were. treated essentialistically, and neces- 'V(oolm_an, '35, will uphold . the af- broadcast. sitated the use of the largest cast ftrmatlve. At the same hme Dr. Present Relationship -of Govern- ment and Business in the United States.\ A specific subject wHI be announced at 5 o'clock on June 8, three hours before the debate is scheduled· to begin. The season was opeRed with \The ever assembled in the theatre. Val- W. Leon GodshaH, Director of De- Intruder,\ by Maurice Maeterlinck .. ua:ble for its dramatic training a,; bating, announced that the general the Belgian playwright. This play, well as its esthetical worth, it subject for the debate wiii :be \The one whose appeal and substance .j,; brought to light n1any condition,; -----~-~~~--------------------- By 8. RALPH COHEN based entirely upon atmosphere. i>> and problems which the M01:mte- ::~UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlll'l'llllllllllllllllllllliiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII_!.! th f . t M t ]' k k banks have met or hope to solve - _ Wl .thout fanfare of publicity or placed frequently with newer and · e trs · ae er mc wor ever - _ d d b h M t b k 'during the next season. : = organized propaganda, the Mounte-. better apparatus. pro· uce · · Y t e oun e an· s. = = baaks Theatre has become perhaps The anterooms have been reno- 15th CE-ntury Miracles and Oralities -----o------- - _ . I : I_ ~::iff¢. : the most important e~tra-curncu ar vated and repaired, and the plctoto- The organization went into the - ~ - cultural activity on the campus. graphs of past productions have prod uc~ion of early fi_fteenth cen- Goadrich-Duane Debate § F' OR YOUR ~/;:ff/' § ::\1erely a \student aC'ti\'ity\ ~ix beeR sy~tematically :HTangcd and tury miraC'IP~ nnd ornhttP~. prodn<'- = ' · : · ; · ?\'\dft? :: yean; ago when the little theatre labelled. Two large and valuable\ ing \Everymaa\ and \The Second. Teams Announced Today I§··.:: ' . · ·' . ·. 7fr ~= was built on the campus, the dra- posters of Sarah Bernhardt produc- S_hepher?'s Pl~y.\ !hey V:ish to. c?n-: ~ - matic org;:mization has achieve>d its tionb have been don:.<ted to the thea- ttnuP tht~ pnhcy, tf possrbiP, g1vmg. == ~ == goal of being an art theatre by fol- tre by Professor Charles N_ Wal- next year an eighteenth century Drawing for sides in the Good- COC'KT. AIL ~ lowing its policy ef presenting dur- dron and have been hung in the play never before produced .by ama- !'i~h-Duane Extemporaneous Debate :: . : • .. · . ~ : ing the year a representative exam- ante~oorn. In the more technical de- teur::; in thi:; country. . which wHI take place Thursday, = ~ = ple of many drama tic theme>s. partments of the theatre, much re- In the spring the Mountebanks ·June 8, was held this week. A team §_ . ~ §_ Tonight tne Mounteban·ks will en- pair and replacement work has realized a long-cherished ambition· composed of Leslie R. Long, '34, and ~ tertain students and taeir guests been done. A new switchboard is in producing \The Hairy Ape,\ by Juhn R. Wan!, '34 wiH argue the = PAR'T. IES . ~ = with the quiet comedy, \S. S. Ten- being made by the members of the Eugene O'NeHI. One of the most negative whHe a team consisting of § · · · . · ~ E acHy,\ which Sidney Howard trans- lighting staff, and it will replace lated for the American stage from the old one at the end of this sea- llllllliiBIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIBUIII•IIBIIIIIIIIIIIIil: the French by Cha·rles Vildrac. son. Cupboards and makeup tables : : Unified Seasonal Program have been erected in the workshop, • • Obviously one of the greatest and the storage space in the base-· • IT'S PUR£f. IT. 'S DELICIOUS • needs for a privately-run theatre i:,; ment of \Vashburn Hall has been : : a unified program for the eatire completely overhauled. New set- • 11 IT'S Se ason. In accordance with such a tings have been purchased from • IT'S WHOLESOME • Clean Throckmorton, of New York .•. •. plan each production must in some - SCHENECTADY'S POPULAR RENDEZVOUS - way develop or iHustrate some one City, and it is hoped that decora- • • theme in the drama. The policy of tions and hangings for the auditor- • Serve Colonial Ice Cream at all Social Events 11 the Mountebanks in the past year, ium itself wiU be completed soon. • • one that has p-roved reasonably sue- The Motmlebanks hope also to : and Every Week : cessful, has been to give in the bui·ld an exit backstage communi- • • fall of the year an experimental eating with the workshop, to facili- • • and production parts in ordE'r to se- the disposal 0f large cast during • • COLD'S production, allowing many acting tate the handling of scener·y. and : c 0 }. 0 n 1··· a 1 = lect new material. The spring play, performances. : : = also of an experimental nature, has studio J>layf'l's Next Yt>ar '• • ; = Restaurant .•. Tap Room ... Delicatessan - been the most ambitious of the • •1 = Next year the Mountebanks are' • ICE CREAM • : year's work, whereas the Prom pro- anxious to produce work by thP' • • = duction in May is carefully de- Studio Players, a subsidiary organ- • .• --= LJI STATE ST. - signed to be of a more popular • 0 character. If these three can be ization controlled entirely by stu- • THERE IS A DEALER NEAR·BY • = dents, and to broadcast at regular • • = unified during the course of the intervals over station WGY. The .• •. : - season, the artistic program of the latter part of the plan was inaugu- • • = theatre has been improved. :; _ rated this year, when versions of ••aiBIIIIIBIBIIIII•IIDIBIBIBIIIIIII ••••••••••••••• 11llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfi: One of the policies which the Mountebanks have inaugurated in the past year is that of taking trips to outside cities and schools in or- der to advertise the college. In fur- ther development of this plan, they hope that prov.isions may be made for two fours each year, allowing for several performances on each trip. The Administration has asked the Mountebanks to draw up a se- ries of suggestions of ways in which the organization could be a strong factor in br·inging more and better students to l.'nion. These sug- gestions have been made, and ate on file. Cniqut> Position The Mountebanl{,; are in a unique po8ition, in that they are an extra- curricul'ar activity with th(' partial maintenancP of a building to kN'P up. The hou~e policy of thP !\1ountt•- bank8 has bePn to carry on during the years continua•], systt>matized improvement in the physical part~ of thP theatre. Theatrical Pquip- ment i,; to a high dPgree \consum- able,\' and thereforP must be n'- We Will Give A FREE HAIRCUT and SHAMPOO To the Union Player Making the LONGEST HIT in the CLARKSON GAME ACME BARBER SHOP 509 Union St. Froy-joy Ice Cream has been awarded the \Good Housekeeping\ seal of ap- proval. carefully awarded for purity, cleanliness and qual- ity of ingredients. At Your Dealer's Store or PHONE 4-3121 the cigarette that's MILDER the .cigarette that TASTES BETTE~ @ 1934, LIGGE'IT & MYERS ToBACCO Co. - theg age good grapes to make rare wines and they do something like that to mellow good tobaccos W HERE THE RARE WINES come from they know that the two most important things in wine-mak- ing are the selection of the grapes and the long years of ageing in the wine cellars. IT'S VERY MUCH THE SAME in the making of a cigarette. You have to get the right tobaccos, then put them away to age and mellow m wooden casks. You can't make a good like Chesterfield in a day. cigarette It takes over two years to age the tobaccos for your Chesterfields-but it adds something to the taste and makes them milder. Everything that rrwdern Science really knou;s about is used to make Chesterfield the cigarette that's milder, the cigarette that tastes better. Vol. Poi: J.\1 n Li E Tl liBVE mas mull com men that ~he diffE hav• mys true as\ blov Ape pro~ Paq littl sevE dM.J Ho\ itat· estr ing M plet boa pia~ plO't ma:: loo.l im:t: of ~ mil' dri:f one tu:q sen wiil ThE acil a.nc T me1 wh• stel Cat the eigJ arg lng an< ha' dec up tob tho tho cry dul ticE ing the pe! dis fro ,pre drf nig as mt: up sfn erE Jr. ha: to in~ Ha tr::J cle Be brc ni~ Sn an hi~ ne· an tin wl: th• fill se1 wl of 81:!: jol in:

Twelve THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, l.IA Y 11, 193-1 • I \Everyman\ and \The Lost SHk powerful of modern dramas, it was: Thomas J. ,crowl.ey '34 and J·oseph I Preseat Relationshi~ of Gov~rn- lltf\OUntebankS uave EnJoyed Season: Hat,\ by l\ord Dunsany, werP trea.ted essentialisticaNy. and neces-' vyoolm_an, 35, Will uphold .the a.f- ment ~nd Busn~e.ss m .the u:mted lf'.ll · .l.ll broadca;.;t. :;itated th0 use of the largest cast firmative. At the same time Dr. States. A specifiC subJect Will be • 1 The sea,;on was opt> ned with \Till' ever as~embled in the thPatr;. Vaol- ,V .. Leon Godshall, Director of De-l announced at 5 o'clock em June .s. O f Success, Presenting Fzve Plays IIntrudet•,\ by Maurie{' Maeterlinck. uable .f~r H~ ~r:ama.ti~ tmm~n~ as: ~ati.ng, an~ounced that ~.he ~e~era·l' :hne hour~ befo_re the debate IS , the Belgian playwright. Thi,; play, ,W{'l\ .l:; 11» . usthetic.tl wmt~:. 1t,. UbJPct fm the debate w1l·l be The, ><cheduled to begm. I oae whose appeal and sub,;tance is brought t·o l•tg-ht .many condttwns __________ _ By :S. RALPH COHE:-1 i based entirely upon atmosphere, i:; ,and ~~·~bl;ms whiC.h h the Moun;t;- ::~!llllllllllllllllllliii.UIIIIIIIIIllllllllllll'llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ Without fanfat·t> of publicity or p'laced frequently with newer &nd: the fir,;t Maeterlinck worl' ever dban:k~ Ia \ e met 01 ope to ~ 0 ·\ e ·- : ' · d d b · th I\1 t b· 1 . · unng t 1e next season. ' : _ organized pnlpaganda, the Mountc- .better apparatus. PI o .uce · . > ~ \ oun e an'\· . . : banks Theatre has become perhaps The anterooms have been reno- I 15th CPntury Mtraclt>s and OrahtH•s ---- -o- . . :;: the most important extra-curl'icular vated and repaired. and the photo- The organization went into the r,il :: cultural activity O·n the campus. gt·aphs of past productions han.' prmltlc~ion of t>arly ti.f~eenth cell- .Goodrich-Duane Debate FOR· YO···UR ~'ff = Merely a \student activity\ six been systema·tically anan?,ed and I tury nuracles and oralities, produr- 7~ :;: years ago when the little theatre labelled. Two !urge and valuable i ing \Everyman\ ami \The Second TeainS Announced Today ~ = was built on the campu:.<, the dt·a- po~ten;· of Sarah Be 1 ·nhardt produc- 1 Shepherd's Play.\ They wish to con- ~ =: matic organization. ha:.< achieved its lion,; have been donated to the thea-, \ionue this policy, if possible, ginng --- ~ ;: goal of being an a•rt thea.tre by fol- tre by Professor Charles N. Wal-' next year an eightc'enth centuty Drawing foz· sides in the Good-:§ COCKTAIL ~· :: lowing its p0licy of pre,;enting clur- dron and have been hun\· i-n the 1 play never bl'fote producl'd by aoma- 1 ich-Duane Extemporaneous Debate :;: · . . . • ~ = ing the year a representative exam- ante;·oom. In the more technical de-· teur~ in this country. which wiU tal'e place Thursday, = ~ :;: pie of many dramatic theme~. partment,; 0f the theatre. much re- In the sprin~ the :\1ountebank;; June 8, was held this week. A team i:: ~ :;: Tonight tne :>1ountebun\{:; wiH en- .pair and replacement work ha~ realized a long-cherbhed ambition connpo:;ed of Leslie R. Long, '34, and';: PA.·RTIES ~ E: tertain students and their gue:;ts been done. A new switchboard IS in producin~ \The Hairy Ape,\ by John R. \Vacrd, '34 wHI argue the':;: ~/ =: with the quiet comedy, \S. S. Ten- being made by the member::; 0f the Eugene O'NeilL One of the most negative while a team consi::;ting of,= \~ : acity,\ which Sidney Howard trans- Hghting staff, and i.t will replace, . . :;; = latPd for the American stage from the old one at the end of this ~ea-1 BIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIBIIIIII•I•IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII:': the Frt>nch by Charles Vildrac. son. Cupboard,; and makeu.p tables:: : =: Unified Sea~onal l'rogram have been erected in the wor\{::;hop, 1 11 •;: Obviously one of the peatt·st and the storage ;;pare in the base-[ II IT'S PU·REY. IT'S .OEUCIOUS II':: needs for a privately-run theatre is ment of Washburn HaU has been·: : 1 :;: a unified progr·am for the entire completely ovet'hauled. New set- • •·, = IT'S :.<ea,;on. In accordance with \arh a lings have been purcha~ed from • IT'S WHOLESOM£ •I:;: h d . t . Clean Throckmorton, of New York II • i:;: SCHENECT DY'S POPULAR RENDEZVOUS pla.n eac pro uctwn mu,; m somE' Cit''• and it is hoped that decm·a- a 11 .• :, =- A · • . . · . - way develop or io\lustrate some one ' theme in the dmma. The policy of lion,; and hangings for the auditor- • Serve Colonial lee Cream at all S0cial Events • '= the Mountebanks in the paot year. ium itself will be completed soon.· II ; . :: oBe that has proved rea::;onably ~uc- The ~fountebanks hope al~o to : and Every Week •':;: c<>ssful. has been to gi-ve in the build an exit back~tage communi- 1 a 11 : faH of the year an experimental eating with the w0rkshop. to facili-~11 • i :;: COLD'S pwduction, allowing many acting tate the handling of ~cenery. and : c 1 $ I : I :: and prOdUCtion parts in order \0 se- the disposal of 'lal'g'P cast during :. . 0 . 0 n t· a II = lect new materiaL The spt·ing play. perfot mance,;. , : : : abo uf an expel\imen.ta.J natUie, has studio !'laye-rs :\'t>xt Yt>ar · • • Restaurant ... Tap Room ... Delicatessan - been the most ambitious of the · II • h I Next vear the Mountebank>< ate 11 ICE CREAM. • yeaz·'s work, whereas t e 'rom pt o- anxious. to produce work by the II • duction in May is cart>fully de- 11 11 I Studio Players. a suhsiuiary organ- signed to be of a more popu ar 11 • charactel·. If tht>se three can be ization controlled entirely by stu-· 11 11 . _ unified during the cour\e of the dents. and to b!·oadrast at regular I II THERE IS A DEALER NEARBY II ' :;: 631 STATE ST. sPason, the artistic program of the intervals over· >'tation WGY. The i; ; theatre has been impmwd. ~~'l\ 1 :J· ~~f~ ~.~;;,e !~~~ ~.~~·s\~~~g~:f: :IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIBIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII8111111111•••••••••••••••••••••••= ;JIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllll!i; One of the policies which the Mountebanltt< have inaugurated in the pa~t yeat· is that of taking trips to outside citie>' and schools in or- der to advertise the collegP. In fur- ther development of this plan, they hope that provisions may be made for two fours each year, allowing foz· several perfo1·mances on each trip. The Administration has asked the Mountebanks to draw up a \P· ries of >'Uggetltion>' of way\ in which th{' organization could be a ~trong factor· in bringmg mm e and bettC'l' students to l'nion. The'\' >'Ug- gestions have bt>en madP, and are on filP. l'niqueo Position The ~1ountebank\ are in a unique position. in that they are an extia- cunirular activity with the pa1·tial maintenancP of a building to keep up. Th{' hou:<e policy of th<' ~1ounte­ banks ha>< ht•rn to carry on chu ing the year;; continua-l. sy>'tematized improvement in the physical JHlrts of the thea ll'P. Thea t rica! NjUip- nH'nt is to a high dPgrPe \C'on~um­ able,\ and therefot·e mu:.<t bP re- We Will Give A FREE HAIRCUT and SHAMPOO To the Union Player Making the LONGEST HIT in the CLARKSON GAME ACME BARBER SHOP 509 Union St. 1 Frey-joy lee Cream has been awarded the \Good Housekeeping\ seal of ap- proval, carefully awarded for purity, cleanliness and qual- ity of ingredients. At Your Dealer's Store or PHONE 4-3121 the cigarette that's MILDER the cigarette that TASTES BETTER: @ 1934, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co, -theg age good grapes to make rare wines and they do something like that to mellow good tobaccos W HERE THE RARE WINES come from they know that the two most important things in wine-mak- ing are the selection of the grapes and the long years of ageing in the wine cellars. IT'S VERY MUCH THE SAME in the making of a cigarette. You have to get the right tobaccos, then put them away to age and mellow in wooden casks. You can't make a good cigarette like Chesterfield in a day. It takes over two years to age the tobaccos for your Chesterfields-but it adds something to the taste and makes them milder. Everything that modern Science really knou·s about is used to make Chesterfield the cigarette that • s milder, the cigarette that tastes better. Vol. = Pois M m Li Nev T ~ Tb lieve mas1 mult com] men that Thei diffe OOVE mys' trud as\ b!OVI Ape. proe Paq littl• seve dl'!l.l Hov itat• estr ing M plet boa: pia~ plO't IDa:l loo} imp of • mil• drif one tuq sen will ThE aci1 anc T me1 wh• ste: Ca1 the eig· arg ing an< ha, dec up tob the the ccy dul tic• ine thE pel dis fr<: .pr• dr< ni~ blE as m1 up sir cr• Jr ha to inl H< tr~ cl< BE br ni Sr ar hi ne ar til w· tb fll se w of eE jo ill

r .. -~~ine .... , l • ·J Underclassmen Obtain -~• First 1 ·. Grades l . I ' . . I ·~ ....... ----~-~- SIS School Journalists To Visit Goncordiensis Wednesday . ··. ~=~ Vol. LVII., No J UNION oq~EGE;·SCHE~ECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, MAY 15, 1934 Mountebanks Play. Well Done Despite Choice of Vehicle Poised, Convincing Cast Made Most of Such Dramatic Mo· ments as Existed in Piece Lighting Was Excellent New Switchboard Installed in Theater Pi'oves Successful In Prorn Play f)r~ Edward 'Spike' Hale Fights Logic ;using-His· 'Short Stories' for Defense I .·: . ---· ~- ~- ~- 1 · · . · By VEDDER M. GILBERT · ! The true history of Dr. Edward lose anything f.rom t:heir heads are · imverett Hale, Jr., is most difficult mentally deficient, Professo-r Hale . to discover. \Spike as his boys· has lost a great quanity of hair ~a:iled him was a character around from his head; therefore--Profes- .. f,vhom ma~y legends can pe woven . sor Hale is mentaliy deficient.\ , It is hard .to catalogue the events A heated discussion ensued. Each attributed to Dr. Hale's career into professor had an idea of his own the categories of truth and fiction. for examining Dr. Hale. Dr. _Ed~ Iil the records o.L 1911 ther.e may ward Ellery wanted to test \Spike' · be· foun('], an interesting tale dealing with the reage!l t for the second · t;lth the English professor's intel- group, but Howard Opdyke, Pro- iigence. fessor of Physics, interrupted with The Friday morning folloYring the informatioJ:!. that \like forces · Thanksgiving :bay of 1910 Dr. repel,\ so Dr. Ellery's suggestion · Charles Alexander Richmond, then came to naught. By Jl'EnDilSAND HELM, JR. · president of Union, calied the fac- After much heckling \Spike The 'Mountebanks evidently pe- ABRAHAM SMITil Wty together in the Old Chapel. arose,\ relates the records, \sniffed . ----~----------- · Harold C. Mitchell, instructor in and commenced to unwrap his lit- lieve that multitudinous mutations ~ Engineering was the first man to tle package. Everyones' curiosity masterfully manipulated produce, G d t C '\} arrive. He was followed by \Spike\ was aroUBed. He held the contents multiplex intellectual sensations ra ·ua ·e 0 u n c l . who looking deeply agitated, gln- up dairutily and in the best 'boast- di · A • gerly carried a -small package neat- ing' accent proclaimed that it alone compl!-fable .to the savor of con. - R ports 15 ct 1 ve ly tied in blue ribpon. was sufficient evidence to prove ments. In other words they think . · . e . . . . · · • When ail the fa,culty members that his mental ability was .greater that va-riety is the spice of life. Grou· ·ps of Alumm· were assemb}ed, Dr. Richmond, than any American writer of short \S s T i:ty\ having unanimously been made stories.\ ~heir fourth play, · · · enac ' ' chairman, soon after the opening The evidence was Dr. Hale's book CALENDAR Today Chess Club Meeting, H:.a~Jpa Nu, ' Sp. m. Tomorrow Baseball, Willia~s vs. Uni'on at Williamstown, Mass. Golf, Williams vs. Union at Wil- liamstown, Ma,ss . Garnet Goblins Rehearsal, Silli- man Hall, 7:30. Thursd11.y Radio Club Meeting at noon, Electrical Labi'atory. Fl'iday Tennis, Union vs. Rutg~rs at Schenectady. Golf, Union vs. Colgate at. Ham- ilton. Students to Inspeet Concordy ()f.fice Nearly a Hundred Jounlalists Expected to Visit O:ffice This Wednesday, 'l'h.11rsday PRICE FIVE CENTS Nine Students Earn First Grade Honors On New Dean's List Langer, N (}l'th, Delack, Olson, Plummer, Murphy, Rusz- kowski, Reeves ·Get Honors Loss of Three Men 54 Freshmen, 53 Sophomores Get Second Grade Honors The list of first and second grade men issued yesterday by the Dean's Office showed a loss of three men from the freshman list which ap- peared March 30. The Sl!-me number of sophomores appeared on the list as last time. Fifty-four men at- .tained a: place on the freshman list, three of whom maintained a first grade ave-rage. There were six first grade men out of a total of fifty- three .sophomores who attained the Dean's list. differs from anything else they ptayer called for l;msiness. ent~tled. \Short Stories\ Which he hJave g!:ven this year. It is not Work Progressing on Alumni Dr. FrankO. Barnes, who accord- had compHed and edited from the Nearly a hundred visitors are ex- Sophomore Class · d rk \The In · d W'th. 1075 N\ ing· to the records;. had ma)laged to . best wqrks of famous authors. d Th c 0 · - ' First Grade-AB•B: Burton B. mysteriously mo ern 1 e - Recor S l · ew. g· et through the narrow doorway, _\_Spike\ in conclusion said that in pected to at ten · e oncor lensls Delack, George F. Murphy, J\r. Carl d •• ua1'n· tly impressive \open house\ Wednesday and tru er, or as q · · Items Added to List arose wilth a commanding air and the next session he would be pre- Thursday afternoon from l:30 till E. Olson. BS in EE-Willis B. as \Everyman or heavy w~th full- caltilly stated that as ·Secretary of pared to present further evidence Plummer. blow.n profanlty lik~ \Th~ Hairy --- the Faculty he bad received a val.,. o£ his greatness. 5 :~:b.e guests, stUdent jolll!nalists .AB-A-Robert S. Langer, Robert Ape;\ According to the note on the Gift Fund Drive Begun uable piece of information consid- Unfortunately the records are jn- from local and vicinity ):ligll. schools North. Prog ram, Charles Vildrac's \Le. ered by Dr. Frank S. Hoffmb.atn'sf complete. Two questions ofd aDlike have been invited to insRect. the edi- Second Grade-AB-Donald J. . --- class in Logic to be a sound I 0 nature remain unanswere · oes torial office of The C(}ncc.rdiensis; Amorosi, Melvin T. Boright, .Albert Paquebot Tenacity\ }:Jeloilgs m a Baker, 'lS, E~pects Over 1200 reasoning. The statement under hair correlate with intelligence and watch the staff in action, and dis• B. Dlama.Ii.te, Alvin J. Effron, Du.- little category w.hich il shares wit4 consideration read, \.all men who does truth correlate with fiction? cUBs with the editors any problem ane Featherstonhaugh, Nelson A. several other ;post-war French Contributions This Year which they xnaY have in t.l\e pub- Foote, Jr., Charles .A. Gilmore, Jr., dNI.Illas; industrious :Mr. Sidney Report Fi· ·n··m·ngs ·at White and Brown Praised lishing of their own sch:ool papers. William E. Goff, Berthold Good- '1 Several exhibits have -'lie!ln pre- tnan, .Arthur R. Greenberg, John D. Howard's translation does not facJ- Spencer B. Eddy, '18, 0 ~ Sarato?a For Making Switchboard pared for the visitors il)Cl1.lding a Hall, John L. Hallenbeck, Earl w. itate its escape. u remains aped- chairman of the ,t\lumm Assocm-. Ch\ em .• ·sts' Meeting complete headlil;le schedule, and the Henry, William G, Keens, Jr., f.Ier- estrian play, slow-moving and lack- tions comillittee, r-eported at a results of the recent questionnaire man Kudon, Harvey M. Lifs!'lt, Wil- meeting of :the Graduate Couz:cil Quietly working all day Thursday in tabulated form. liam c. Maquire, John A. McGuire, ing in dramatic f-Orce. Saturday afternoon that the actlve and most of the night, John E. The embryo journalists '1'17111 have Robert J. McManus, George N. Mll- M. Vildrac has ~ttempted com- alumni associations of Union Col- Or. Langmuir Tells of Recent M B the 'oppo, rtunity 'to observe the inette, Donald c. Miller, Dalwin J. H •~ over · · Alb White, Jr., and Robert . rown, plete naturalism. e cas,.., - · lege at present ru-e those m . ·. any, Expeliments With 0 i I workings of a college Iie>Vspaper Niles, Thomas N. Palmatier, James board all the ordinary tricdk~ 0 J Binghamton, Boston, Chlcago, stage electricians for the Mounte- and the methods of opera.tion. Of L. Palmer, William E. Parker, Jr:., playwrights. The carefully e ne. cleveland, Coni;lecticut, Genesee Films at Conclave Saturday banks, did an exceedingly -difficult particUlar futerest will ba the up- William H. Parsons, George w. Put- plot, the vigorous dialogue, t~e ~ll- Valley, Q-1ens Falls, Michigan, New task. They installed the new to-date equipment and o,fflce facili- man, Charles L. Reid, Jr., J\ohn maxes for which one ordmanly ~ork Oity, Philadelphia, Schene~- --- th ld ties of The Coticordie:nsi_s which Ross, Charles D. St.inard, Manuel ' 0 ts the y 11 s th Cal h h b switchboard in place of e o one . ·· looks all are missing. ne ge · . 'tady, Schoharie a ey, ou I- The biologists w o ave een were installed last spring. ~he copy Sugerma.n, Michael J. Tytko, impr~ssion of d,rifting int~ the 'h~es fornia, Washington and Western .puzzled for a long .time about many and had their lighting plots work- desk, typewriter tables, fll~J;Jg sys- George J. Ward, Robert E. Wells, of a few people, obse~vmg . With New York. · th · t\ f ing smoothly by the next day when tem; and \morgue\ are slrnlliar to Theodore H. Wilmot, Morton H. mild interest whlll.t Is gomg on,t-anll d J. :R •. Brown, J\r. '30, of Albany, problems concfernmg f 1 ~ a_cdion ° \S. s. Tenacity\ was given. those used in large newspaper of- Yulman, Merton L. Zubres. drifting out again .. Inciden a y, reported 107~ new items of ·biogra- films ·at inter aces 0 lqUI s may , The switchboard represents eight fices. BS in CE-Michael E. Fiore, one picks ~p some b~~ of ,\i;ama- phical interest added to the alumni- find their answers in the research months of work on the part of. This is the first time The Con- James v. Marotta, Albert H. Stev- turgical philosophy, Snap 15 ab- records during the .past year, an:d work now being conducted ii;l tne 'these intrepid electricians. The old cordiensis has attempted t() hold an enson. sent as is al,most everything that reported that a parbc1)lar en;phB7IS General Electric Company Re- switchboard, built by an A. B. sen- \open house.\ The interest already wiil convey ideas wlth any force. has been placed on gathermg m- · shown by the high schools .in the BS in EE-Edward H. Bastedo, The \.S·. s. Ten· ·ac1'ty\ requires a ten- format 10 • n of the f 1 \rst 25 cin•ses. search Labora,tory on monomolecu- tor in 1929, though pel'forming its aff · · t t •t · Arthur A. Bullard, Howard G. th f m \'\\ task, was too inflexible for easy wr pom 0 1 5 success; Earls William S Irvine acious au. dience. Bo per or - graduated from Union College more lar films, it was st_ ated by Dr. Irv- d \ t • • • t t d d 11 manipulation and \broke own oo S i Ch . ·K th J ances were poorly a en e · than a 100 years ago. ing La,ngmuir, honorary chance or frequently in its sixth year of serv- B n en:nstry- enne . Smali Dmmatic Appeal Commencement Plans of Union College, Nobel prize win- ice. The new board is not only an Students Invited t() Attend Frederick, Gustav ]f. Hallstrom. The story concerns two young ner in chemistry and associate di- ingenious mechanism for effecting Exhibition of :WatEr Colors BS in Physics-Harold S. Howe. men Ptirisill.:ll?J and war-veterans, Raymond C. Donnan, '03, of Sche- rector of the G .. E, R,esearch Lab- the varied types of stage lighting Freshman Class w:b.o' are aboUt ,to em1Jark upon tl?-e nectady, reported no drastic oratory, a.t the annual chemical used by the Mountebanks, but is steamship Tena>City, for a farm 1ll changes in the plans for Com- education meeting of the eastern itlso more portable and can be used Mrs. Mortimer F. Sayre, presi!}ent First Grade-AB-~-Kenneth N. canada. One stronger-willed than mencement week-end iil June. The New York section of the American on road trips~another reason for of the Schenectady College Worn- Brown. the other, has originate& the for- additional lighting equipment will Chemical Society which took pl-ace lts construction. en~s Club has issued an invitation AB-A-Charles H. Reeves, Casi- eign farming project, and has be procui·ed to illuminate Jackson's Saturday ·On 1he campus. The materials for the new hoard to the students and fac-ulty of Un- mir W. Ruszkowski. argued his friend into acco';lpany- Garden. Of special interest to the biologist cost approximately $230, .A new ion College t9 attend an exhibition Second Grade-AB-B-Burns F. lng him. The former falls m love Walter C. Baker, '15; of New iS the new knowledge .being discov- boand if purchased outright would of water colors whicll. is taking Barford, Donald H. Baxter, ll1a.y B. and decides not to go; the !atter York, · chairman of the Finance ered on the effeets of small traces have cost no less tQ.a.Il $500. place all this week, daily from 10 Begor, Paul Campbell, Jr., James A. having the necessity fo~ makmg a Conunittee, reported that the AI-. of the calcium ions on monomolecu- Special commendation for .theil· to 6, at The Hanson Studio, 20 ·c~roll, Jerome L. Cohen, Saul R. decision forced upon h1m, ma.ke.s umni Gift Fund campaign is well lar films. work was given to White and Union avenue. Cohen, lfranklyn F. Converse, WH- up his mind .to migroate to Mam- under way and that it is hoped Dr. Langmuir told of the recent. Brown during the performances There is ho admission fee to see liam F. Doney, Stuart J. Eisenberg, toba. 'l,'hus do the destinies move that more than 1200 contl'ibutors experiments on oil films and new last weekend by Mr. Carroll who the landscapes of Miss Carrie Clute, Joseph A. Field, Jr., Theodore w. those Who consent and compel will be on the list this y~ar. knowledge obtained on the rela- was highly pleased, with the re- scenes of New Mexico, England, Fox, William A. Griesau, Marvin those who refuse. It is all very John C. Van Voast, '87, of Sche- ti<msb.ip§ of solids, liquids and gases inar!tably easy control over the a,rtlst from. ~h!n~QEJC4, l:'J; ~ .• w)1Q~e Katz,. John J. Marsella, Edward cryp.i:ic also occasio~ally slightly nectaqy, chairman of the Gard_en as a result of these experiments. lighting that the new instrument Gaspe Penhlnsula, and those about Milberg, Roy c. Moon, Oscar .J. dull The Mountebanks, long prac- Co:m,m~ttee, :reported that the wm- . The fact that vegetable and ani- provided. the Hudson river, are on exhibition. Muller, Richard E. Passenger, ticed though they are in overcorri- ter had been hard on the college mal oils have only one et?-d of their . Frank D. Phillips, Jr., James H. ing the difficulties imposed UJ:?On . gardens and that it is yet impos- molecules in contact Wlth water Lac~osse 't\s Do'· otb' a·-l·z·. P' .z·:_.ay·. ed ·'11_ .·~ :_.z •. th Riggs, John Rooney, Jr., Robert J. them by a sma11 stage, female 1m- sible to estimate t:he amount of when placed . on the surface of 1 , .1..' ~ &CI Rosenthal, Richard C. Snyder, Nor- personation and a dressing-room damage done. New painting has water, tenc!s to spread. them into man Stamler, David S. Stark, Nm·- distant .by 'an auditorium's length been undertalten this year and new vel·y thin films, so _thin m fact that f7l • R -k. t S S · · •th. St ,;~ t man :R,. Stewart, Francis E. Town- from the stage, have ventured to paths are being developed and im- Dr Langmuir estlmates that one ':_.1. ennzs ac e s_ . a_ ys . mz . . Uuen ley, Nichol~ Viscusi, Wilbur D . . present a play-which has almost no proved in the college woods. He ba;rel <2% ·gallon) of· vegetable oil - Walling:. 1 and on Prom also repor:ted that the youn~ elms th f AB , A r gt E n, _ _. h dramatic appea- · · raised from the seeds of the Nott is enough to cover all · e oceans o By M. A. S. _ . -~- r m on . ~.er, Jo n night of al} times. G d 1 the world. h d? Wh , . . d'd' th' ·c. DaV'is, .Fred Feld!'na.n, George Elm in Jackson's ar en are· arge f I had never seen a lacrosse game ea . enever someone I. IS :Haskell Ferdinand Helm James Capable Perforntance enough to plant but that an em• Dr. Newell T.. Gordon preside:-tt 0 pefore Saturday and, conseq1,1ently, he had to leave tl;!e game. for a :M:· K · '. · ' · Yet the performance wa:;J a ca:pa- bargo prevents their being ship:ped the ·sectiozi_, presided. was thrilled when the b. f. (of 1·he couple of mltuates, 'rhel), wh.eJ?. he· . c enzle. !He on!l. Such dvaniatic. moments outside of the state. The Japanese Dr. Edward Ellery in greeting the moment) told me that we were to was rested, they sent ·~ll)l. :back in · CEJ-.,-Vaden R. B11tler. as existed were emphasized as nut trees given the cqllege by G~n~ 50 chei:nists and chemistry te3;chers. see one. When ~ saw· the outfits to hit someone else. I thotJ.ght that EE-George. W. Hoilbs, Richard much ·as possible. The cast, n;ade er.al Amasa J. Parker ate also stressed the .necessity of thetr df!l-. they had in order to play the -game, was very ·clever of them. 'Wasn't it M. E:elsey, Rici].ard C. Kennedy, up largely of freshzn.en! was pms~d, ready for transplanting. veloping the scientific. attitude t wa:> teribly shocked and amused terrible the way that ilttle fellow Howard L. Knack, William Owens, sfncere, and convmcmg. Spe~lal · among their students yvho _ \must itt the same time. The abbreviated seemed o run ·into Vaa all the Jr., Robert E. Peck, Elmer Sheldon, credit is due to John B, Dowlmg, .Wall,lron, Reports have an opeJ:l min·d to r.ece1ve new trousel'1ir were the most obviou:s but time? Why he might ·have been J\oseph L. Theisen. J\r. who overcame the physical Charles N. Waldron, '06, of Sche- ideas, even if these. ideas deiD:an?, besides this lack of discretion they hurt! BS in Ohemistry-darl R. Fael- handicaps of height and big feet nectady, secretary of the Gra:duB;te scrapping lqng chenshed the?nes. ivei·e football hats with sun shade·s After the game I concluded tllat ton, William Gapcynski, Jr., Philip to come through with a:n outsta:nd- Council reported that Codman His- H:e agreed -tliat the accumul-ation of and I couldn't ·see their ~aces. Some lacrosse was a wonderful game be- B. Moore, John K. Sloatman, Jr. ing Impersonation,. to Geo~ge . P. lop, '31, now a graduate student at facts is essentia.i, especially for sci~ of these boys (weren't they shaggy cause of the ain~unt of :work t:he , BS in Physics-Lee L. Davenport, Haskell, who played the vaCillatm,g Columbia University, will spend the ence students, but urged t~at looking brutes?) Wore baseball head gets and-did you g1rls notice• ·Howard s. Moncton. traveler, and to s·. Ralph Cohens summer on othe campus sea~ching \somewhere this fact-accumulation masks and they all had bas~ball the stilnting hats and sp()rt outfits; cleverness in a smalier role. C .. w. for a:nd cataloguing Union ~stori- must stop and training of th\; mind gloves which they never used. It the co-eds were wearing! Oh, i:o<n't Bennett's moustache dow~ung cal matter. He reported for Delan• in the scientific attitude, begm.\ was tooooo sil'ly for words.! What Union co-ed? It was a great game .. broke the s:m,oothlless of Fnday cey W. Watl{ins, whose death P;tt Followin:g Dr. Lan~mui~'s address amused me ;rpost, howe:ver, was the anyhow! night's performance. Abraham a stop to t)i,e work of this conunit· interesting new mo.hon pictures on pecWiar looll:ing tennis rackets they ---oo-~- MARRIAGE N0'.11CE Smith used an unfor.t~nate drawl tee. . the .proper.ties of films, surfac~ ten- used. I asked the b. f. why the col- and showed a tendency .to over-do George Daley, '92, of New York, sion and oxidation, to be used m the ·lege dodn't buy them some good his part. Llghtlng was excellent; a chairman of the Undergraduate Af- teaching of chemistry! were shown. rackets but he j.ust glared at me. new switchboard is of grea:t assist- fairs comt.nittee, reported sat- :After lunch a discuss~on of_ mutual , Lacrosse is sUCh a silly game! It's· Colonel and Mrs. John Stewart ance to the electricians. . T~e set- is faction witP. the manner in which ten_. ching problems· were d 1 scusse.d just iike football only they use a· hi SE:NIOR CLASS DUES Senior Class dues must be paid tomorrow. The Bursai·'s office will be open to receive these payments from 8:30 to 12:00 and 1:3() to 5:00. The dues are $3. ting was the ftrst. realistic one extracurricular: activities h~ve been at a seminar he!J,ded by Dr. Lew 1 s small -ball and ten:rtis rackets and of Was 'ngton, D. C., llave an- which your reviewer has seen on conducted by· the· <\tillege and es-. G. Bassett of R. P. I. play differently. I thought It was nounced the marriage of their STUDENT COUNCU.. NOTI(JE the stage in Hanna Hall.. It fll- pecially commend~li .. :Pr. :mrmer A, very selfish <>f one or two t!lllows daughter, Miss Margaret Janice ---01---- filled the requirement of all goo_d Tidmarsh and the . Glee Club for · who tried to keep the ·ball to them- Stewart . to Ross c. Lindblom, • 38 , settings in having nothing about 1t: their concert at New York, and CO:R.Jl.ECTION selves all the time. One of the plo.y- which might distract the attention the Teri'ace C.ouncil for its Block --- ers became so bored that he had to :to take- place this Sunday. of the aUdience from ·the -a,ction, >an. U dinner i c s t s h lat' amuse himself by sticking his Lindblom, a inembei' of the f th 1 A ·repor' t o·n the Civil_ En. gineer- The Will ani: · · ax on · c 0 - 1 t • th th · H as L bda Chi AI h f t 't essential ·iil the case o . IS P ay. t f ship 'l:!as been awarded to Thoma~ LOngue ou a~. . e ci era. . e w . am p a ra erxu y:, was a ·The Mountebanlts can do a good ing curriculum and ,sJ,lggcs\lO!J.S. or J: Crowley, J'.r., instead 0 ~ to ~ 1 bert awfull:9\ cute! Weren't you thrilled'. former Idol conhributor, a-nd was a jo . b. Once in a wh.ile they slip· '4P it was read by L'ud~ow u:,.. MeliUS, ·th 1 t 1 · f The concord 1 Gns's when they hit each other over the member of the swimming team. · '96, of Cornwall Bridge, Conn. • e · as ssue o. , · · · · in: theii: choice of tools. Thei'e wiU be an ifuportan:t meet- !Jlg o~ the Student Council tonight at 7: 30 in the Council rooms on the fourth floor of North Section, North College. Both the old and new Councils are to be present.

·-·· ~-· ·-·-··1 l Nine Underclassmen Obtain I I First l 1 Grades l I I I . I '1-.....-~--·---~·· Vol. LVII., N o .• .A3i?$ 7 Mountebanks Play Well Done Despite Choice of Vehicle Poised, CBnvincing Cast Made Most of Such Dramatic Mo· ments as Existed in Piece Lighting Was Excellent New Swi:tehboard Installed in Theater Proves Successful :BY FERDINAND HELM, JB. • • StS School Journalists To Visit Conco1·diensis I Wednesday . l--~~--~---~ UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, MAY 15, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS In Prom Play ABRAHAM SMITH ==~==~==~============~============ . Dr. Edward 'Spike'Hale Fights Logic 1 Using His 'Short Stories' for Defense By VEDDER 'The true history of Dr. Edward Everett Hale, Jr., is most difficult to discover. \Spike as his .boys . called him, was· a character around whom many legends can be woven It is hard to catalogue the events ;;t.ttributed to Dr. Hale's career into the categories of truth and fiction. rn the records oi 1911 there may be found an interesting tale dealing .-;;~h the English professor's intel- ligence. The Friday morning follo·.-ring Thanksgiving Day of 1910 Dr. Charles Alexander Richmond, then president of Union, called the fac- ulty together in the Old Chapel. Harold C. Mitchell, instructor in M. GILBERT Jose anything from their heads a1 e mentally deficient, Professol· Hale has lost a great quanity of hair from his head; therefore Profes- sor Hale is mentally deficient.\ A heated discussion ensued. Each professor had an idea of his own for examining Dr. Hale. Dr. Ed- ward Ellery wanted to test \Spil>e\ with the reagent for the second group, but Howard Opdyke, Pro- fessor of Physics, interrupted with the information that \like forces repel,\ so Dr. Ellery's suggestion came to naught. CAi,ENDAR 1~oday Chess Club Meeting, Kappa Nu, 8 p.m. 'l'omorruw Baseball, Williams vs. Union at William::;town, Mass. Golf, Williams vs. Union at Wil· liamstown, Mass. Garnet Goblin,; Rehearsal, Silli- man Hall, 7:30. Thursday Radio Club Meeting at noon, Electrical Labl'atory. Fl'iday Tennis, Union vs. Rutgers at Schenectady. Golf, Union vs. Colgate at Ham- ilton. Nine Students Earn First Grade Honors On New Dean's List Langer, North, De lack, Olson Plummer, Murphy, Rusz lwwsld, Reeves Get Honors Loss of Three Men 54 Freshmen, 53 Sophomores Get Second Grade Honors The Mountebanks evidently ·be- lieve that multitudinous mutations masterfully manipulated produce multiplex intellectual sensations comparable to the savor of condi- ments. In other words they think that variety is the spice of life. Their fourth play, \S. S. Tenacity,\ differs from anything else they have given this year. It is not mysteriously modern like \The In- truder,\ or as quaintly impress.ive as \Everyman or heavY with full- blown profanity like \The Hai-ry Ape.\ According to the note on the program, Charles Vildrac's \Le Paquebot Tenacity\ belongs in a little category which it shares with several other post-war French doo.mas. Industrious Mr. Sidney Howard's translation does not facil- itate its escape. It remains a ped- estrian play, slow-moving and lack- ing in dramatic force. Engineering was the first man to G d t C c } arrive. He was followed by \Spike\ ' ra ua e 0 u n c l' who looldng deeply agitated, gin- A • gerly carried a small package neat- After much heckling \Spike arose,\ relates the records, \sniffed and commenced to unwrap his lit- tle package. Everyones' curiosity was aroused. He held the contents up daintily and in the best 'boast- ing' accent proclaimed that it alone vvas sufficient evidence to prove that his mental ability was greater than any American writer of short stories.\ Students to Inspect Concordy Office The list of first and second grade men issued yesterday by the Dean's Office showed a loss of three men from the freshman list which ap- peared March 30. The same number of so.phomores appeared on the list as last time. Fifty-four men at tained a place on the freshman list, three of whom maintained a first grade average. T·here were six first grade men out of a total of fifty three sophomores who attained the Dean's list. Reports 15 Ct lve ly tied in blue ribbon. · When all the faculty members Groups Of Alumni • were assembled, Dr. Richmond, having unanimously been made chairman, soon after the opening Nearly a Hundred Journalists Expected to Visit Office This Wednesday, Thursday Work Progressing on Alumni Records With 1075 New Items Added to List prayer called for business. Dr. Frank C. Barnes, who accord- ing to the records, had managed to get through the narrow doorway, arose wtth a commanding air and calmly stated that as Secretary of the Faculty he had received a val- The evidence was Dr. Hale's book enti:tled \Short Stories\ which he had compiled and edited from the best works of famous authors. \Spike\ in conclusion said that in the next session he would be pre- pared to present further evidence of his greatness. Nearly a hundred visitors are ex- pected to attend The Concordiensis' \open house\ Wednesday and Thursday afternoon from 1:30 till 5:30. Sophomore Class First Grade--AB-E: Burton B Delack, George F. Murphy, Jr., Carl E. Olson. BS in EE-Willis B. Plummer. Gl • ft Fund Drive Begun uable piece of information consid- ered by Dr. Frank S. Hoffman's AB-A--Robert S. Langer, Robert North. Second Grade--AB-Donald J. Baker, '15, Expects Over 1200 Contributions This Year class in Logic to be a sound bit of reasoning. The statement under consideration read, \all men who Unfortunately the records are in- complete. Two questions of a like nature remain unanswered. Does hair correlate with intelligence and does truth correlate with fiction? The guests, student journalists from local and vicinity high schools have been invited to inspect the edi- torial office of The Concordiensis, watch the staff in action, and dis• cuss with the editors any problem which they may have in the pub- lishing of their own school papers. Amorosi, Melvin T. Boright, Albert B. Diaman.te, Alvin J. Effron, Du- ane Featherstonhaugh, Nelson A. Foote, Jr., Charles A. Gilmore, Jr., William E. Goff, Berthold Good- man, Arthur R. Greenberg, John D. Hall, John L. Hallenbeck, Earl W. Henry, William G. Keens, Jr., Her- man Kudon, Harvey M. Lifset, Wil- liam C. Maquire, John A. McGuire, Robert J. McManus, George N. Mil- inette, Donald C. Miller, Dalwin J. Niles, Thomas N. Palmatier, James L. Palmer, William E. Parker, Jr., William H. Barsons, George W. Put- man, Charles L. Reid, Jr., John Ross, Charles D. Stinard, Manuel Sugerman, Michael J. Tytko, George J. Ward, Robert E. Wells, Theodore H. Wilmot, Morton H. Yulman, Merton L. Zubres. M. Vildrac has attempted com- plete naturalism. He casts over- board all the ordinary tricks of playwrights. The c~refully define~ plat, the vigorous dialogue, t!Ie C:ll- maxes for which one ordmar1ly loo.ks 'an are missing. One gets. the impr~ssion of drifting int~ the h:res of a few people, observmg wrth mild interest what is going on, and drifting out again .. Incidentally, one picks up some b1ts of drama- turgical philosophy. \SnaJ?\ is ab- sent as is almost everythmg that will convey ideas with any fC>rce. The \S. S. Tenacity\ requires a ten- acious audience. Both perform- ances were poorly attended. Small Dramatic Appeal The story concerns two young men Parisians and war-veterans, who 1 are about ,to embark upon tJ;e steamship Tenacity, for a farm m Canada.. One stronger-willed than the other, has originated. the for- eign farming project, and has argued his friend in to acco:r;npany- ing him. The former falls m love and decides not to go; the ~atter having the necessity fo1: makmg a decision forced upon h1m, make.s up his mind to migrate to Mam- toba. Thus do the destinies move those Vlho consent and compel those who refuse. It is all very ccyptic also occasionally slightly dull. 'rhe Mountebanks, long prac- ticed though they are in overcom- ing the difficulties imposed u1;on them by a small stage, fel;llale lm- pe1·sonati<>n and a dressmg-room disbant by 'an auditorium's length from .the stage, have ventured to .present. a pJ.ay\ which has almost no dramatic .appeal-and on Prom night of all. times. <lal!able Pel'fol'Inance Spencer B. Eddy, '18, o~ Sarato15a chairman of the Alumm AssoCia- tions committee, r-eported at a meeting C>f .the Graduate Council Saturday afternoon that the active alumni associations of Union Col- lege at present are those in Al.bany, Binghamton, Boston, Ch1cago, -.;leveland, Connecticut, Genesee Valley, Glens Falls, Michigan, New •fork <.;ity, Philadelphia, Schene~­ tady, Schoharie Valley, South Call- fornia, Washington and Western l'<ew York. J. R. Brown, Jr., '30, of Albany, reported 1075 new items of biogra: phical interest added to the alumni records during the past year, and reported that a particular emphasis has been placed on gathering in- formation of the first 25 classes graduated from Union College more than a 100 years ago. Commencement Plans Raymond C. Donnan, '03, of Sche- nectady, reported no drastic changes in the plans for Com- mencement week-end in June. The additional lighting equipment will be procured to illuminate :rackson's Garden. Walter C. Baker, '15, of New York chairman of the Finance Co~ittee, reported that tf1e Al- umni Gift Fund campaign IS well under way and that it is hoped that more than 1200 contributors will be on the list this year. John C. Van Yoast, '87, of Sche- nectady, chairman of the Gard.en Committee reported that the wm- ter had b~en hard on the college gardens and that it is yet impos- sible to estimate the amount of damage done. New painting has been und-ertaken this year and new paths are being developed and im- proved in the college woods. He also reported that the young elms raised from the seeds of the Nott Elm in Jackson's Garden are large enough to plant but that an em- bargo prevents their being shipped outside of the state. The Japanese nut trees given the college by G~n­ eral Amasa J. Parker are also ready for transplanting. Wal(lron Reports Report Findings at Chemists' Meeting Dr. Langmuir Tells of Recent Experiments With 0 i 1 Films at Conclave Saturday The biologists who have been .puzzled for •a long time about many problems concerning the action of films at interfaces of liquids may find their answers in the research work now being conducted in the General Electric Company Re- search Laboratory on monomolecu- lar films, it was stated by Dr. Irv- ing Langmuir, honorary ch_ancel~or of Union College, Nobel pr1ze wm- ner in chemistry and associate di- rector of the G. E. Research Lab- oratory, at the annual chemical education meeting of the eastern New York section of the American Chemical Society which took place Saturday on the campus. Of special interest to the biologist is the new knowledge being discov- ered on the effects of small traces of the calcium ions on monomolecu- lar films. Dr. Langmuir told of the recent experiments on oil films and new knowledge obtained on the rela- tionships of solids, liquids· and gases as a result of these experiments. White and Brown Praised For Making Switchboard Several exhibits have been pre· pared for the visitors including a complete headline schedule, and the results of the recent questionnaire Quietly working all day Thursday in tabulated form. and most of the night, John E. The embryC> journalists will have White, Jr., ·and Robert M. Brown, the opportunity to observe the workings of a college newspaper stage electricians for the Mounte- and the methods of operation. Of banks, did an exceedingly difficult particular interest will be the up- task. They installed the new to-date equipment and office facili· switchboard in place of the old one ties of The Concordiensis which were installed last spring. The copy and had their lighting plots work- desk, typewriter tables, filing sys- ing smoothly by the next day when tern, and \morgue\ are similiar to \S. S. Tenacity\ was given. those used in large newspaper vf- t · ht flees. The switchboard represen s eJg This is the first time The Con- months of work on the part of· these intrepid electricians. The old cordiensis has attempted to hold an switchboard, built by an A. B. sen- \open house.\ The interest already ior in 1929, though performing its shown by the high schools in the task, was too inflexible for easy affair point to its success. manipulation and \broke down\ too frequently in its sixth year of serv- ice. The new board is not only an ingenious mechanism for effecting the varied types of stage lighting used by the Mountebanks, but is also more portable and can be used on road trips-another reason for its construction. The materials for the new board cost approximately $230. A new b<>ard if purchased outright would have co~t no less thap. $500. Special commendation for their work was given to White and Brown during the performances last weekend by Mr. Carroll who was highly pleased with the re- markably easy control over the lighting that the new instrument provided. Students Invited to Attend Exhibition of Water Colors Mrs. Mortimer F. Sayre, president of the Schenectady College Wom- en's Club has issued an invitation to the students a!ld faculty of Un- ion College to attend an exhibition of water colors which is taldng place all this week, daily from 10 to 6, at The Hanson Studio, 20 Union avenue. There is no admission fee tC> see the landscapes of Miss Carrie Clute, scenes of New Mexico, England, artist from Rhinebeck, N. Y., whose Gaspe Pefiil!nsula, artci those about the Hudson river, are on exhibition. Lacrosse is Football Played with Tennis Rackets Says Smith Student The fact that vegetable and ani- mal oils have only one end of their molecules in contact with water when placed on the sUI face of water tends to spread them into very thin films, so thin in fact that Dr. Langmuir estimates that on.e barrel (2\f gallon) of vegetable 011 is enough to cover all the oceans of By M. A. S. the world. I had never seen a lacrosse game Dr. Newell T. Gordon preside:1t of before Saturday and, consequently, the section, presided. was thrilled when the b. f. (of 1he Dr Edward Ellery in greeting the moment) told me that we were to 50 chemists and chemistry teachers' see one. When I saw the outfits sttessed the necessity of their de- they had in order to play the game, velopihg the scientific attitude I was terib!y shocked and amused among their students who \must {Lt the same time. The abbreviated have an open mind to receive new· trousers were the most obvious but Charles N. Waldron, '06, of Sche- ideas; even if these. ideas dem.an~ besides this lack of discretion they nectady, secretary of the Gradu~~;te scrapping lqng chenshed the'?rlel';. were football hats with sun shades Council reported that Codman His- He agreed t1iat the accumulation ~f and I couldn't see their faces. Some lop, '31, now a graduate student at facts is essential, especially for sci- Of these boys (weren't they shaggy Columbia University, will spend the ence students; but urged t~at looking brutes?) wore baseball summer on the campus searching \somewhere this fact-accumulat~on inasks and they all had baseball for and cataloguing Union histori- must stop and trai~ing of th~ 11i;md gloves which they never used. It cal matter. He reported for Delan- in the scientific attitude, begm. was tooooo silly for words! What cey W. Watkins, whose death put Following Dr. Langmuir's address amused me most, however, was the a stop to the work of this commit- interesting new motion pictures on pecWiar looking tennis rackets they tee. the properties of films, surfac~ ten- used. I asked the b. f. why the col- head? Whenever someone did this he\ had to. leave the game for a couple of minutes. Then, when he was rested, they sent hitn back in to hit someone else. I thought that was very clever of them. Wasn't it terrible the way that little fellow seemed o run into Van all the time? Why he might have been hurt! After the game I conc1uded tllat lacrosse was a wonderful game be- cause of the amount of worl{ the head getd and-did you girls notice the stunting hats and sport outfits the co-eds were wearing! Oh, i\n't Union co-ed? It was a great game anyhow! -~-o~~~ MARRIAGE NOTICE BS in CE-Michael E. Fiore, James V. Marotta, Albert H. Stev- enson. BS in EE-Edward H. Bastedo, Arthur A. Bullard, Howard G. Earls, William S. Irvine. BS in Chemistry-Kenneth J. Frederick, Gustav F. Hallstrom. BS in Physics-Harold S. Howe. Fresluna:n Class First Grade--AB-E-Kenneth N. Brown. AB-A-Charles· H. Reeves, Casi- mir W. Ruszkowski. Second Grade--AB-E-Burns F. Barford, Donald H. Baxter, Fay B. Begor, Paul Campbell, Jr., James A. Carroll, Jerome L. Cohen, Saul R. Cohen, Franklyn F. Con verse, Wil- liam F. Doney, Stuart J. Eisenberg, Joseph A. Field, Jr., Theodore W. Fox, William A. Griesau, Marvin Katz, John J. Marsella, Edward Milberg, Roy C. Moon, Oscar J. Muller, Richard E. Passenger, Frank D. Phillips, Jr., James H. Riggs, John Rooney, Jr., Robert J. Rosenthal, Richard C. Snyder, Nor- man Stamler, DavidS. Stark, Nor- man R. Stewart, Francis E. Town- ley, Nicholas Viscusi, Wilbur D. Walling. AB-A-Arlington E. Baxter, John C. Davis, Fred Feldman, George Haskell, Ferdinand Helm, James McKenzie. CE- Vaden R. Butler. EE-George W. Hobbs, Richard M. Kelsey, Richard C. Kennedy, Howard L. Knack, William Owens, Jr., Robert E. Peck, Elmer Sheldon, Joseph L. Theisen. BS in Chemistry-Carl R. Fael- ton, William Gapcynski, Jr., Philip B. Moure, John K. Sloatman, Jr. BS in Physics-Lee L. Davenport, Howard S. Moncton. SENIOR CLASS DUES Yet the perforrrrance was a capa- ble one. Such dro.matic 1?-oments as existed were emphasized as much as possible. The cast, n:ade up largely of freshmen, was pols~d, sincere, and convincing. Spe?1al credit is due to John B. Dowl~ng, Jr., who overcame the PflYS!Cal handicaps of height and b1g feet to come through with an outstand- ing impersonation, to Geo:ge . P. Haskell who played the vac!llatmg travele;, -and to S. Ralph Ce>hen's cleverness in a. smaller role. C .. w. Bennett's moustache clowl?-mg broke the smoothness of Friday night's pe1•formance. Abraham Smith used an unfor,tunate drawl and showed a tendency .to over-do his pB.rt. Lighting was excellent; a new switchboard is of great a.ssrst- ance to the electricians. . T~e· set- ting was the first realistic one which yo-ur reviewer has seen on the stage in Hanna Hall. It fll- filled the requirement ,of all goo.d settings in having nothmg abou~ 1t which migh.t distract the attentwn of the audience from the action, ail essential in the case of this play. George Daley, '92, of New York, sion and oxidation, to be used m the lege dodn't buy them some good chairman of the Undergraduate Af• teaching of chemistry, were shown. rackets but he just glared at me. fairs committee, reported sat- After lunch a discussion of mutual Lacrosse is such a silly game! It's isfaction wit):l. the manner in which teaching problems were discusse.d just like football only they use a extracurTicular activities have been at a seminar headed by Dr. Lewrs small ·ball and tennis rackets and conducted by the college and es- G. Bassett of R. P. I. play differently. I thought •t was pecially commended. Dr. IDlmer A. very selfish of one or two .fellows Tidmarsh and the Glee Club for . who tried to keep the ball to them- theiJ· concert at New York, and CORRECTION selves all the time. One of the play- the Terrace Council for its B}ock --~ ers became so bored that he had to Colonel and Mrs. John Stewart of Washington, D. C., have an- nounced the marriage of their daughter, Miss Margaret Janice Stewart to Ross C. Lindblom, '38, to take place this Sunday. Senior Class dues must be paid tomorrow. The Bursar's office will be open to receive these payments from 8:30 to 12:00 and 1:30 to 5:00. The dues are $3. ---,a--- STUDENT COUNCIL NOTICE U dinner. The William c. Saxton Scholar- amuse himself by sticking his The Mountebanks can do a good job. Once in a while they slip up in their choice of tools. A report on the Civil E':lgineer- ship ~as been awarded to Thoma~ tongue out at the others. He was ing curriculum and suggestions .fo~ J. Crow!ey, :rr., instead of to ~ 1 be_rt awfully cute! Weren't you thrilled it was read by Ludlow L. Melius the last isEUe of The Concordl~ns•s. when they hit each other over the '96, of Cornwall Bridge, Conn. Lindblo~. a member of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity, was a former Idol contributor, and was a member of the swimming team. There will be an important meet- ing of the Student Council tonight at 7:30 in the Council rooms on the fourth floor of North Section, North College. Both the old and new Councils are to be present.

\ !) 'i I Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TU~SDAY, MAY 15, 1934 For o~ ~:~~::il:o~~i: t:~:~~ College~~~ F A R R A G 0 ··II· •E;;;;;o;=;;;M=;;;;;U;;;;;S;;;;;I;;;;;;C===··~ dtiring· the past year, The Concordiensis J!-=;;;;;;;;;:===:;.:;;;;;=========;;;;;;;;;;======~ by names the following members of the admin- The high ecstasy of prom and re- My words are few, bright red Rankine Hinman \A. Oauaa Persa Parole .dssai\ FouNDED 1877 istration and student body: lated revels slides into a daymare patches in a crazy,qullt of copy. of the-work-we-should-have-done- Good old Aunt Dinah. Vale! Vale! Dr. Edward Eilery, who as Acting Presi- and didi1't. A final weelt, a handful Vale! Music in the Air ~!i!'iodatf~, ~~~~,iatt ~ws~ dent fostered a more liberal attitude toward . of exams, a dull and future-less Alouette, gentile Alouette. Did We emerged, several months ago, commencement ,and there we shall you see all four columistical lights t d t e · t d ·1 d d ery much from the constrained but irrepres- g u en expl' SSlOn. s an , very nate an v . sootle in sans cap and sans \gown? J'J} }' t..,.H~~~-~NA~V~ 1934 E h d Al · f u · c 11 · sible roar of the New Yorlt sub- Th 't h' 1 d th 1 · as ame - · umm o nwn ° ege. They're a queer lGt. And even from e comn11 tee w lC 1 Ull er \ e c uunnan-. T·h.roua:h this cloud-mountain of col- way int0 the relative silence of The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Frid~ys throughout the college year, except durmg Christmas and spring recesses. ~ ·such as these parting is such sweet Broadway at 16th Street. Above the shi.p of Professor Earl E. Cummins forma- legiana.to the gt·ey dawn of a strug- sorrow. The Christians in the arena D gle to keep body and soul and self- hated to say goodbye to Caesar. intermittent disturbance of olang- lated the Union Plan: Dr. Ellery, eans respect above water. A long, long They threw parties as was parties ing surface cars and honking taxis Publication Ofi'ice, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Cha I S F F Garl 's arld Ernst J Ber•o- 'Pro struggle, and certainly not too re- in those days. Imagine-all Rome a clear, free swirling of bell tones r e · • · • · o • · · - munerative. We'll al'l have our lit-. caught our attention, a song that d invited; you, the cynosure of all t fes,sors Joseph D. Doty, Frank C. Chillru ., tle illusions about the scheme of eyes. 'l'he Emperor himself lioniz- floa ed above us, totally oblivious Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter th . + th \ · 1 \ ·t I'll all be to the spurning challenge flung Harold A. Larrabee, Bertram 1\I. Wain !rei' mgs; cO e Simp e I w . . ing you. Thus we go. Come, kitty, ~ simple, but to those who puzzle. kitty! back by the street noises about us. and Charles B. Hurd. about the idiocy of the set-up, it * • * From the clavier of the Riverside ·11 b f 11 f 1' t' d Church Carillon Kamiel Lefevere Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Deall Char les F. F. Gai•t's, for devising and twl~ans. weeraubleso. Mcoormal~. lbcae lsol.nmsplane. The Sidney Howard translation. ,. of Vildrac's \S. S. Tenacity\ played ·was pouring forth his message of putting into effect a much-needed schedule * * * ; to a couple of half-nude houses .praise and joy. b b 11 over the week-end. There is no Drawn irresistibly to the source f n . thly qu 1 'zz· es 0 Glory! 0 Honor! 0 ase a th' . h or mo · · • 7 g·ood explanation for thl's vile at- of IS mus1c, we reac ed the tow- team! Clarkson 11, Syracuse . f th h h te ts Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union ~ollege, Schenectady, N. Y. All other commumcati«;JnB to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi Psi Lodge, Umon Professor Anthony Hoadley for do'ing a Union 7, Clarkson 6. Atsa way da tendance, except possibly that cer- er <> e c urc • moun d i great- b f G · tain blabby-mouthed .lads noised it er portion by elevator, climbed the th h · b b 150, gang. A purple ro e or r1s- f fl. ht b f d oroug JO as ursar. d all up as a stodgy dull drama. Of last ew 1g s y oot, an · came wold, wreaths for the la s . Professor Harold Wittner, Director of around. course, to a college weaned on the out upon the seventy-two bells College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD * • * fast-moving, wish-fulfilling lies which constitute the largest Caril- A thletics, for bringin2: the Athletic Den..art- about life that adorn Schenectady ion in the world. Three-hundred ~ t-· We write an OK over the week- · t t th h th d fi ·screens, it might seem a bit bulby. hirty-fi\re feet above the Drive, we Clemens F. Hathaway ......... ·I?ditor-in-Chief men . roug- ano er year on a soun ·nan- end in sports. Tracksters cleaned Vildrac's J'ob a.Sked something of gazed over the Hudson upon a set- . 'th h up. Track plus baseball minus Ia- · th t ff d all 't t h d cia] basis; and for cooperatmg Wl t e stu- crosse yields a positive average. Of the audience; for that reason it is mg sun a su use · 1 ouc e Arthur J. Katzberg ........... BUJSmes.s ManB;ger Donald B. Moulton ........... Managmg Ed~tor Joseph A. Woolman .............. News E~tor dents demands wherever possible. course, the tennis match wasn't labelled by some as \uns~itable for with a glorious golden hue. official; she no count. a Prom production.\ The ideal Twenty Ton Bell Dr. G. Marcellus Clowe, college physician, ,. .. * Prom production, we pres1,1me, Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor Thornton W. Whipple .... Circulation Manager would be a burlesque show, some- Before us stood the Bourdon or who initiated the move for J:ine coaches. The Prom died on its feet, de- thing easily swallowed and quickly largest bell in the set, the greatest D \'. Petel' I. W·old, head of the physics De- spite the shining efforts of John. forgotten. tuned bell in the world, twenty tons L King Sullivan to kick some life As a matter of fact, there was of metal. Within it hung a two ton JUNIOR BOARD J. Anderson R. North A. Stevenson v. Gilbert V. Trumbull partm.ent, for presenting a new theory on into the old corpse. And Sam Keats, nothing over-profound about the clapper which functions only when who kept so many Prom-ites awake · the bell is swung by the l1ugh the variable velocity of Iig·ht before the N a- theme of Le Paquebot Tenacity; · llssue Editors ....... V. Gilbert, R. North Reporters Contributing to This Issue W. Ferguson M. Bedell H. Cohen F. Feldman TUESDAY, MAY 15, 1934 LET'S HEAR FROM THEM OFTENER The speeches by Dr. Hanison C. Coffin and Professor John L. l\la1·ch brought to a successful close a well-worked-out progTam of daily assemblies, for which we are thank- ful to a broad-minded administration. To have two such thoughtful and frank speak- ers on successive days was indeed a g-reat pleasure. There was a cel'tain link between the two add1~esses which made them appear intel·- dependent. In the first speech Dr. Coffin re- peatedly urg·ed the :-;o-called educated men to \do a little thinking·\ ... to \think out your prol>lems.\ Professor l\larch on the next day delivered a talk packed full of proiJiems fm· us to think about. Although painting- a dark and hopeless pictme of dark and hopeless social, intellectual, and moral life, the popular head of the psychology de- partment succeeded well in challenging the thought of many of the undetgraduates who heard him. The majority of students may disagree with, and even be shoclu•d at, such a pessimistic outlook, but unless the college students of today take on the \difficult even distasteful task of thinking,\ as Dr. Coffin describes it, Professor March's pes- simism may be regarded as an accmate and true view of the future. But Professor March's foreboding outlook served its pur- pose; we know that at least a few students were stirred up enough to thin}{ about things more serious than the next \date\ or the baseball game tomorrow. It is the teachers who in a large degree a1·e responsible fo1· arousing their students to think seriously. Dr. Coffin's remarks about them are of special interest, for, as he declares, \it is useless to demand intellec- tuality of students when it is not always displayed by teachers.\ His definition of a good teacher is well worth study by all con- cemed in that profession. in his corner of the pew. And de- Hardy, Dreiser, and O'Neill shott a wheels attached to its girder-like tional Academy of Science. spite the ravings of the ravers, the line very similar. The sentence from support. Two half-ton clappers music was nothing to jump out of R b 1 . 't 1 t 1 \L striking upon the outsi.de of the bell H. Laurence Achilles, Prof. Charles Wald- bed about. Farrago opines that a e als covers 1 comp 9 e y: · es d eli · f th destinees meuvent celui qui con- are use or · nanly ,one or e ron and Fred Wyatt, for successfully ca.rry- Prom was just a nice dance that sent, tirent celui qui refuse.\ The clock mechanism, the other for the cost a bucket of coin. But, say the Greek drama is fuH of this theme- clavir. Above range the lighter ing out the first Sub-Freshmen Weekend.. sages, things are what you make of the machinations of Fate in a world bells, the smallest of which has Miss Frances Travis, for organizing- and them. Farrago concurs weakly. of puny mortals. And Dowling, :;~. diameter of only six inches. * * * Firth, Abe Smith et alii did a smart Higher in the tower there is a supervising the Student Employment Bu- The Saturday parties swung piece of work, certainly as fine as soundproof room in which the car- reau, and the Student Sp. eakers Bureau. through nicely. Sir Willard:s band can be expected from any crew of illoneur ordinarily plays. Before did the Betas up proud; he shows amateur actors. In short, I spent an him is a row of short handles, l\Iilton M. Enzer, for performing unusually up much better in a small place enjoyable ninety minutes in the spaced very closely; sitting on his hard work in advertising· the colle2:e as di- Somebody, punch-drunk by Will's Mountebanks Theatre last Saturday bench. and playing the lower bells ~ African rhythms, piped up: \We've night. With but four hours sleep with his feet, however, he resembles rector o.f the News J3ureau. got to have them for Prom next the night before. Tough-minded an organist. This Laura Spelman year.\ As I said, he was punch- Farrago! Rocl{efeller Carillon is operated by Dr. Harold Larrabee, for arousing interest drunk or just plain dizzy. Inciden- • • • an electric pneumatic mechanism among the alumni by speeches on his Mid- tally, Sir Willw:d could do mighty Convinced that nothing in itself which permits much more rapid things for his band by heaving that is sacred, we prostitute one of our playing without any diminution of West tour. singer out on his ear. favorite poets to a foul whim: the precise control which the caril- Edward L. Carroll and J. F. Bagster-Col- • \ • 0, what can ail thee, Tennis Team, loner exerts over the volume. I . f Ross Potter, full of whimsey and A:lone and palely loitering? Automatic Chlmes ms, or directing the Mountebanks to new devoid of sleep, slings you this for The sedge is withered from the lake heights in dramatics. consolation: And the \birds\ sing! The Bourdon Bell, which is low Gor! the human shape on the h . 1 th H b C, and the four above it may be Dl ·. Elmer A. T1'dmarsh, James lior·a11, and af Th' · b d 0 • w at can al ee, arry oy, 11 t · Mcnday ter. 1s 1s my o y, So haggard. and so woe begone? swung as a ca o serviCe or upon I I b t f I broken for you. The mind is spread , · f n special occasions by means of elec- er er Hausser, or eading the Glee Club d' 1 f d t The Ball teams granary Is u ' tr1·c motors. Otherwi·se the bells are with a week-en s ayer o us · And the Trackmen won. in its successful concerts of the season. The spirit lies low and bewildered. I see a lily on thy brow, stationary. The morals, strealty. But it's not Although tl1e max.'mum of ex es Daniel Flinn and the Terrace Counc1'l fo,. With anguish moist and fever 1 pr - L 'til around 4:00 that it gets ya. dew; sion and delicacy of touch is putting over the best attended Block U Din- The petal-like edges of your smile And on our courts a fading Keats a~hieved when the bells are played !lei . Sl.llCe the foUI1dl'nQ.' of t\he tl·adt'tl'on. quiver and melt, heavy little edlye- Who withereth too. from this clavier, the twelve largest . ~ lids close, and Morpheus trun es bells may also be played from the IJJ-. Et·nest M. Ligon, advisor, William you away. Pyrrhic victory! J. P. ROBERTS. nave and chapel organ consoles of the Church, the music being car- Bruckwehl, president, and the rest of the OH I HEARD far as music went they seemed to ried from without by an amplifying \Y\ Cabinet, for its drive to raise college be afraid or each other. system. · · d f · · f * * * The automatic chiming mechan- spll'Jt an or Its senes of orums. We old troupers can still remem- J t f' · h' t h d'd ism and hour s·tr·1'k1'ng gear cons1'sts us as a m1s mg ouc , 1 you William Waldron, who as chairm.ain of ber-and feel- the last big week- glimpse the monocle which by some of a hugh revolving )larrel, five feet end-with Ed Barna tearing up miracle stayed in its proper place in diameter and three feet across. the Tax Reform and Budget committee has Kennedy's five-dollar bill at the all evening. Rumor has it that it Over forty-five thousand contacts devoted much time and enenry for a wiser . k. ·t was fastened with sealing wax-- may be set upon this barrel, so that - Edgewood (Kennedy thm mg 1 but I doubt that. I think it was all any composition not exceeding two spending of the students' money. was funny)-Cory trying to make done by hidden wires. Seriously, chromatic octaves may be specially Thorn C I d R b t fi S 'th trolleys go around him, without too now, I have a tremendous amount arranged in full harmony for au- as row ey an ()' er . 1111 ' f l f h h ld tomati•C playl'ng upon the carl'llon. h much success-Williams heaving o respec or a man w o can o w o led and managed Union's debating team a monocle all evening. I wish I d geological specimens at the Beta could say the same for my shirt-. uring its season of radio broadcasts and window~--everybody in the wrong other meets. hotel room-the robin I met on the George R. Cory, Jr. who as former editor of The Concordiensis, brought a new vitality to this paper, and led the revival of student ex pression, Robert W. Gurry, Charles S. Bridgman, Harold E. Ellithorn, L. Reed Tripp, and Henry W. Tulloch, five students whose ex- cellent work in their fields brought them scholarships and fellowships for graduate work in other universities. GOOD WORI( With the close of the Mountebanks season comes the realization that the college dram- atic society can be of a distinct value to Union. Not only can the actors acquaint themselves with the art of acting and. also present masterpieces of drama to the under- way home-. * .. • It didn't all slop with Saturday night-not by a long shot. Every- body had their little picnic, with the usual casualties, but there's only one of me to keep an eye peeled-and so, \I heard\ all about the woman falling out of the ca- noe-the rescue by the Boy Scouts -the great number of empty kegs. -Dick Collins with the bulging pockets and the generous attitude stepping through you can't guess whose windshield. • • * Perhaps it didn't affect you the same way, but we of the empty pockets almost fainted at Mark- man's column. And spent the whole day looking for him to see if he had a date. Now that Monday, good old Monday, has rolled around we begin to see the truth in the thing -but as someone remarked not long ago, \too late, my dear, too late.\ \' • * gt·aduate body, hut the m·ganization can Perhaps all that free advertising h in the Alouette had something to elp in the advertising of the college. do with this. Tony's might well have or musical clubs. · been the Times Square subway sta- tion at five o'clock l:!y the crowd Our athletic teams take to the highways; there Friday morning. A shuttle our glee club takes several trips durin!l: the train ought to run from the chapel ~ · step.s-. And now that things are year; undergraduate publications are sent quiet we can say that we know to the libraries of secondary schools; inter- ~~~ ti~~~~ P:Im~iscf~a~.k there and collegiate debates are held out of this city • • * INCH WELL. ---·0--- Middlesex Notes Since this effort is the last col- umn, it may be time to relax and coast a few bouquets in the right di- rections. In the first place, although the Concordiensls s.piurged cream- ily over the columnists last Friday, the final word has not been said. The best columnist that the Con- cordiensis had the past year and the best within my short memory is none other than Farrago, even though he wrote my Alouette, the lousy bum. Don't be fooled by his face, underneath he's quite •a guy, and George Cory struck a master stroke when he hired him. How- zat, John? And several bouquets to R. P. I. On May third, they stopped send- ing their daily news sheet to the second floor of Silliman Hall. The newspapers call it \the renewal of a bitter literary battle.\ Oh well. Notes On Our Contemporaries End of a Rivah·y The Little Three Pact between the football organizations of Wil~ Iiams, Wesleyan, and Amherst has been broken up by the withdrawal of the last college. Amherst has finally abolished. spring practice, which abrogates one of the clauses of the pact between the schools. .. .. * Thme Birds With One Stone Alpha Delta Phi will hold a li1ac- ulty~Farent-Alumni tea on Sunday from 5 until 7 o'clock.-Item in Rochester University Campus. .. .. + One Lap Behind Amherst's Masquers will present \Hamlet\ this week in their thea- ter, with the president of the organ- ization 'tak.ing the lead role. As the :A.mherst Student ql\aintly puts it, \The play will naturally center about the part of Hamlet himself.\ Professor Canfield, coach of the group, will give a new interpreta- ti<>n to the character of Harp.let, bringing him out as an adolescent in a critical stage of development. It is in his immature sensitiveness that the production will try to find the explanation of his melancholy •and! indecision. . . ... :Vanitas, Vanitatum Once a year is entirely too seldom to hear fr·om Dt'. Colfin and Professor March. Next year we hope they will be persuaded to ap- pear more often on the daily assembly pro- grams. and when they are held th.ey are broadcast Back to Prom. Did you see the over the network of WGY. Yet, the Mounte- magnificent fountain sputtering around in the Japanese garden? banks gives every performance of its r.eper- That fountain was the payoff, to t · · I-T H me anyway, who expected at least mre 111 \!anna all. The name of Union something I could take a dip in 1f College would win even more acclaim if pro-· occasion arose. And where were the favors that failed to appear? We vision were mad.e to permit the Mountebanks were in favor of letting the bands to take several road trips during the year. get out in the midway and fight it out with their hands-because as And a bouquet to those builders of civilization-the engineers. As E. P. U. said two weeks ago, \It is nice for the engineers to take an in- terest in student affairs.\ The stu,. dent body became aware of thi~ interest and instead of electing oniy one engineer to the Student l\'oun- cil, as happened last year, elected two engineers to next year's Stu- dent CounciL Congratulations, al- though it is sad to note that the seven arts students of last ye:tr's Terrace Council tapped seven arts studentsc to succeed them. May\he next year the Concordiensis will crusade for a more equitable !l.fld proportionate reptesentation. Wh) knows'! Thus to the end. Amen. P.W. One of the cool, calm, and col- lected columnists of the Rochester Campus bribed two doormen, one secretary, and half a dozen assorted stage-hands for a chance to get to Ethel Barrymore for a story. Fin- ally in the presence of the actress, he stated his mission and received (Continued on Page 3) ( the ·the' The Ur grid. prac ball Jlall'f Pag• Tl: croVI whe: date nam of p thril Oral stan sam ~ ·-

THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 15, ll934 Our Contemporaries his thrill~ng rescue from drowning DEADWOOD? . of one of these is liable to eliminate of two .girls in 1931. . · a contestant by destroying, tern- * * * The geology department of lnd- (Continued from Page 2) porarily, his sense of smell. WORTHY SUCCESSOR iana University has presented a ('Ol- the reply \Sorr·y never hea 1 ·d of· lection of fossils which compose • • · * * Westminister college's first publ1\- the Campus \ • Indiana limestone to Roc.Jtfeller ' · · · cation, which appear. ed in 1885, as Th ·s n·\' Center in New York city. \' * * e arne Iuerence the Westminister Herald, was print- The Vicious Circle '34 PLANS ON CAREER ed for a time on Benjamin Frank- University of Southern OaJifornia , IN MARRIAGE, .ASYLUMS lin's old press which college author- grid. coaches have winter football Headline in Wellesley College News.· itie3 had brought from Philadel\ practice to .prepare for spring foot- ,. ,. • phia. ball practice to prepare for next * * * fall's season. What Do You Say, Lionel? NECESSARY INVENTION Should. Ladies Behave A Syracuse professor has devel- Page Scnozzle with (}j>ed a new method of teaching Lionel Barrymore ·foreig·n languages and he uses a de- ... * * The king of student smellers was· · 11 d h • , -Advertisement in a college paper vice ca e t e 'auctor\ which he' crowned at .Syracuse last Wile/.!:, to the northwes,t. developed. when he was picked from 50 candi-· * * * dates because he could guess the * • • AN INTERNATIONAL AFFAIR names of approximately 50 samples HE WHO WAITS The speaker at the 109th com- of products. The contest was. a menceinent exercises of the Rens- thrilling one, for as the Symcuse Emory S. West jr., a University· selaer Polytechnic Institute will be Orange puts it, \Several of the sub- of Minnesota sophomore engineer- the Honorable R. B. Bennett, prime stances have ·a powerful effect, if ing student, has been awarded the ·minister and minister of affairs and sampled too deeply. A good whiff congressional medal for bra very for finance of Canada. * * .. CAMFUS POLITICS Two Ripon (Wisconsin) College fac\llty men recently campaigned for municipal offices in that city. S. R. C. ------+---- Week•s Best Editorial From the librarian's standpoint, as well as from that of the student; the library space is far too inade- quate to meet the everyday needs of a university as extensive as St. Lawrence. In 1923 the wooden shelving which lined the walls of the main library was removed, and steel stacking was installed. At that time the administration was convinced that the new stacking would be sufficiently capacious to last for a period of at least ten years; however, the shelf space in the library has been crowded long since. The situation would have remained favorable had not those who realized the importance of an extensive libra.ry seen fit to expand our collection of library books to an extent befitting a university of sever·al hund.red students. Two years ago, because of our rapidly increasing accumulation of library books, the stacking was run to the ceiling. Comparatively few of us realize how thoroughly all of the available space in the library has been put to use. Few of us have had occar sion to follow to the end the wind- ink labyrinth which occupies all the basement beneath the main body \C'mout Sometime\ AND SEE OUR MODEL DAIRY FARM AT DUANESBURG Three of the library and reading room. Here may be found the same crowded condition which exists throughout the whole library. In the summer months, because of the damp atmosphere the· library sustains a great loss through the deterioration of literary material stored there. According to the librarian's re- port, since 1924 a: total of over 23,000 books h~W been added to the collection in the library. If in the last tert years Herring Library has increased by an average of ap- .prox:imately 2300 volumes a year, what are we to expect of the next ten years? And if the library in- creases t~ the extent which it has in the past, as we have every right to expect, must we refuse possible gifts of books because we have no place to put them? --The Hill News, St. Lawrence University. PINE GROVE DAIRY WE CORDIALLY INVITE OUR CUSTOMEES AND THEIR FRIENDS TO DRIVE OUT AND SEE OUR FARM WHERE WE PRODUVE OUR OWN GRADE 'A! M1LR TELEPHONE 4-7741 es onot ~ryout -Luckies are All-Way..§ ind to your throat ce between cigarettes is what goes into put together. center -they taste b~tter. . t<i<~hy,f~t~th···.,_··· ·: .. ·. . ......... are paid higher prices for them·. And ... , .... '\ . Luckies get the benefit of the famou& . , :· ..... ~-, process~\ It's toasted!! -for your ~,throat protection. ~\.·:· .. Ahd'.:every Lucky is round, firm and \'Z . •· fully p~l'k~r:L That's v.:hy Luckies ....... .:_ \k . d\t~ nn h t' 'l 'll eepmcon 1Ll0.,,~t a sw1yyot1.· find that Luckies do·nqt dry out-a:?t important point to every .rm.oRe1:::~ Yes, Luckies are always in kind to your throat. ....... '~It's toasted\ ·· . . .f Lucki~~ are .. ·all~ways kind to your throat Only the Center Leaves- these are the Mildest Leaves

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MAY 15, 1934 Nine Turns Defeat Into Victory In Late Rally, Downing Clarkson, 7 to 6 Griswold Silences Clarkson Slugget·s; Gulison's Hits Pull Contest (i)ut of Fire .... C.C.N.Y. Ten Trims Garnet Team, 12-4 Failun to Bloclr Main Factor In Union's Second Defeat; Schulhafter Leads Lavender games. He tallied two of the team's four goals. Lineup and summary: Union Pos. c. c. N. Y. Barna G .h\l'knowit~ Wald.t<on P Sm·)!ian McNab Cl' Cll' ran Smith lD .CaUlman Williams 2D :\lulhem Ft·asEH' l' S<·hulhFdter Oppenheim 2A Hoth Taylor 1A Eo~ner Foote OH Gottfried Bet·gman lH llo.,a:nhal Substitute~: Pnion-Rnbinson, Pas- querella, hllwyn, Kern, Ag·Jus, 1\lower. C. C. N. Y.-Hu~ch, lief, Islw\\itz, Wil- sltell, I~ineman, Unger, Simon. Seoring: Ist quarter-Schulhafter 2:49, 5 :l4; Gottfried 7 :32; Schulhafter 10:36. 2nd quarter: Foote 2 :34 ; Ros- enthal 7 :00; Foote 11 :02; S<'ilulhafter 12:45. 3rd quarter: Fraser 2:01. 4th quat'ter: >Villiams 1 :32 ; Nnger 3 :35 : Rosner 4:25; Gottfried 8:16; Scltulhuf- ter 13 :18; Hosner 13 :42. Penalties; Union 11 minutes; C. C. N. Y. 11 minutes . l5 minute pel'lods. Ketzmen Win Eleven ·Out of Fourteen Events to Defeat Rochester, 89 to 38 4 Four Records Shattered in First Home Meet; Turner, Burton, Krull, High Scorers With wins in eleven of the four- teen events, the Garnet track team secured its third victory in four contests, defeating the Umversity of Rochester, 89 to 38, Saturday afternoon on Alexander l''ield. Four records were established, one by Union, and the rest by the visitors. Leon Naguszewski broke the Union shot-put record for the fourth time this season with a heave of 42 feet, 3 inches. Broad jump-Won by Burton, Union; Noonan, Rochester, second; Bassage, Rochester, third. Distance 21 feet, 4%, inches. Javelin-Won by Brzostowski, Union; Gallant, Union, second; Krull, Union, third. Distance, 167 feet, 9 1 k inches. 120-yard high hurc;lles-Won by Turner, Union; Waldren, Union, second; Noonan, Rochester, third. Time, 0:16.2. Two-mile run-Won by Kaxmier- czak, Union; Fields, Rochester, second·; Mirate, Union, third. Time, 10:12.3. 220-yard low hurdles-Won by Turner, Union; Nortan, Rochester, second; Milano,· Union, third. Time 0:26.4. 220-yar ddash-Won by Krull Union; Lemasena, Rochester, sec ond; Saiewitz, Union, third. Time 0:23.4. 100-yard dash-Won by Krull, Union; Lemasena, Rochester, sec ond; Saiewitz, Union, third. Time 0:10.2. Mile run-Won by Phillips, Ro chester; Walthers, Union, second; Moulton, Union, third. Time 4:32.9. 440-yard dasll-Won by Fogarty, Rochester; Ross, Union, ~econd; Moulton, Union, third. Time 0:51.9 880-yard run-Won by Phillips, Rochester; Dean, Rochester, se,. ond; Brockwehl, Union, third. Tim<:> 2:00.9. By WILLIAM E. FERGUSON Overcoming a six run lead in the closing innings of Vlhat turned out to be the mol>t excit.ing game played thus far this season, the Union var- sity nine thrilled a crowd of sev- etal hundred Prom. Week-end fans Saturday afternoon by turning de- feat into victox·y in beating a strong Clarkson Tech team. 7 to 6, on .A:lexander Field. Looro.is, who start- ed on the mmtnd for the Garnet, lasted but 2 and 2-3 innings and was succeeded by Guy Griswold who held the sluggers of the visi- tors to 2 hits. Showing a total lack of knowl- edge in the art of blocking, Union's stickmen suffered their second de- feat of the season Saturday after- noon on Library Field when they lost to a strong C. C. N. Y. team, 12 to 4. The New Yorkers took the Freshmen Stickmen to Meet Captain Alex Turner, E!Xlory Bur- ton, and Charley Krull Jed Union in scoring, with 14 points each, while Phillips was outstanding for Rochester with 10 points to his credit. Union took all three places in the high jump, shot put, and javelin. FOR ALL KINDS OF BREAD, ROLLS & CAKE FREIHOFER'S lead early in the contest and were Deerfield Academy Saturday Loomis yielded eight hits in the never in serious danger of losing time he was in the box. This, com- out to the home team. bined with two errors, provided the Techs with a six run lead, which proved to be their total for the day. Griswold relieved Loomis in the third. inning with two cmt and two men on base. F-rom then on the Clarkson team wa:o held scoreless. Griswold strucll.: out four of their men and walked n<Jne. He received ex:cellent support from his team- mates and had no trouble in dis- posing of the visitors quickly in Schulhafter was the outstanding player of the day, securing a total of five goals for the Lavender team besides performing well on the defense. Blocking was one of the most obvious signs of supe- riority of the city team. The GH- netmen were tumbled about almost at will and, consequently, lest the ball on numerous occasions to their opponents. After coming within three goals every inning. of the visitors, Union's defense col- Garrison St.ars lapsed and the Lavender team ran The real her<>es <If the day, how- wild scoring four markers in the eve1, proved to be Captain Garri- final period. Captain l<,oote played d B b R <l G h d a a fair game but was obviously not son an ° ee · arry a up to his performances of previous perfect day at bat, collecting four hits out of four times at bat, these four hits accounting for four of the runs made by the home team. Heed, who was credited with two hits out of two times at bat, batted m the winning 1·un in the ninth inn- Ing with a hit when the bases were loaded. Ftve double plays were performed during the afternucn, Clarkson be- ing c1edited with three of them. Aftex the rather poorly played fii·st two mnings, the Union defense lightened and two double plays were accounted for and no Clark- son man got past second base. l:ninn Rallies iJl Ninth :: :.:·: With two days of hard scrim- mage on schedule this weelt, the freshman lacrosse team will wind up its season when it meets the Deerfield Academy team at Deer- field, Mass., this Saturday in a re- turn game. The Garnet yearlings won the first encounter with the Academy stickmen by a 9 to 3 score. The starting lineup as announced by Coach Wyatt is Harry Tomp- kins, goalie; Duke Fenton, point; Carl Faelton, cover point; Don Lif- fiton, first defense; Jack Marsella, second defens.e; Elliott Fraser, cen- ter; Harold Vandecar, first attack; Russ Knox, second attack; Jack Smith, in home; and Ken McMur- ray, out home. The summaries: Pole vault-Won by Burton, Un- ion; Griffing, Union, second; Ru- bens, Rochester, third. Height-11 feet, 11 inches. Discus-Won by Naguszewski, Union; Little, Union·, ~econd; Cray- tor, Rochester, third. Distance, 127 feet, 4% inches. High jump-Tie for first hetween Turner and Burton, Union; Grif- fing, Union, third. Height, 5 feet, 9% inches. Shot put-Won by Nagu~.~:ewski, Union; Krull, Union, second; Mi- lano, Union, third. Distance, 42 feet, 3 mches. =~ ,. FREE DEUVERY PHONE 2-3500 THE CAZETTE PRESS PRINTERS :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::s::::::::::::::::r:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ Union won the game in the ninth inning when Clarkson had its third pitcher of the day, Whitney, star hurler of the team, working on the mound. Semerad opened the inning with a walk. Loomis was hit by a pitched ball, and Gnswold doubled sco!lng Semerad. Bush walked and Reed smgled sco11ng Loomis with the wmning run. None wer·e out when the game ended and Whitney was ct edited \\ith the> losH. is the Semerad, heavy-h1ttmg Garnet centet· fielder, wa~ blankPd in the hit column for the st•cond Hlraight game. Have pitchers found his v.Pak spot? Klein, Whitnc>y, an<l Ryan were in the field for Clarltson. Big league stuff'? .. Stevenson is improving im- men~ely at the bat. He had one hit out of one official trip to the plate. This raises his batting average 5()0 JWI' cent. Hutteman, of the v!sitOls, is a Fili~inu by bit th. • The subs on the baseball team appeax to be the needed spark to ,;et off the flrewor ks. Bush is flll- mg Clark's place at first in great style and Reed is doing big things d()wn the thil d b~e line. Tile sumrn•try: Ultlou <7J AD R HPOA. E Fture, ~b ..... , ....... 3 0 U 3 6 0 !lartt>'<>n, rf ......... 4, () 4 2 () 0 f>ain, as .. .. .. .. . .. . 3 l 0 5 5 0 Hernerad, 1 f . . . . . . . . 4 1 0 0 0 0 Luom ts. 1•. It ......... 4 1 3 1 1 0 tlri><wnhl, if. p 5 0 1 0 1 0 Bu..,h. J!J ............. 3 o 1 lu () 1 Cuu\lalla<.lcr, Ji.J ..... , :! 0 0 U 0 1 HteVtiL:··ull ~ ...... , .. 2 2 1 6 0 1 n~·pd ~h ... <> ~ n () o 'l'olnis c·> i2 27 13 3 ('la.rlcsou 1111 A E R H 1'0 A E Hvan. I'! . . . . '' I 1 2 o 0 fJUlt~Jlld.U, .. l1, }1 • , ._., l U 1 2 0 l~JL\lll. ll1 .f ., JH () 0 r..nul.,, ::!l1 t 1 ~ 4 4 0 Sif><!i~<'lri p 4 ll 4 2 0 H<>UBton.' If • . 4 ll ll 0 0 .:\l.t;Uit:l', If . • . . . . ! U lJ ll 2 0 ':affll<:~. '\ .... i I I 2 Ei 0 Spenc~J. p, :n, . 2 n 2 0 V\'hilll<'l' p II If !I II () 0 < l1egg-, rf . . . . . . 1 1• u II 0 0 T'ot,tll'> .. , ..•.. , 37 I) 111 ~~ 17 0 1,\\D-ha:-.;~ }llt-til!S\1\0]fi) ~trW)( OlJt- U~ l ... uoruls 2 ill 2 :t11d .:! :t IHtlin.gs; nti:-;woJd 4 in 6 1-3 inning!4 Bn~ws on halb--t:lff IJoorni~ 1, nri:..;wol<l o; Hut- tr·man 3; Sr>encer 4. l >ouble l'lays- l•,Jrcw to I lat Jl to Hll.\'lh ; Onswold to F11 •t t' l11 l ~ul-lh. c__;affn~,:\o tu Zautlu to .Kiv11. (~) Z.tudu tu t:,tffrtt·~ 1o Klein J·.~~:-of\d baii~-Su-•dJt',·ki H1t hy pttcher By Ilulkm.tn ([.o·•ml,). l'mplre- ' ,ltJlJH~II\' Tltnt> of (!'I m~- '! houn.: ann ,, riJIIl 'lt-Ot\> --- ---0 ---- PSI '(; l'ROl'ERTY ThP Po::l ll'• \\it t }lp funqtero:: who found tt necessary to reliPve the pqj l fpqi ion Hnnq\ nf four silver cups And a piR<]U<\ t\arly Hunday mnrning pl!>A•P to rE>turn the· ar-1 tir!PR thPy tonk ThPy ehoulrl be of 1 ltttle signlfican<'P to anyonP not 1 connected with the fraternity. -it takes good things to make good things. -the mild .ripe tobaccos we buy for Chesterfield mean milder better taste. -the way they means Chesterfields and smoke cool. are made burn right -it means that down where they grow tobacco folks know that mild .ripe tobaccos are bought fo.r Chesterfields . And because Chesterfields are made of the 1·ight kinds of to- bacco, it is a milder cigarette, a cigarette thflt tastes better. There is no substitute fo.r mild, ripe tobacco. ( I t 1--- ... Vol. L~ NinE Ent~ For Best Si In Jack Ten.~ Award Mos1 Much the inte which w Jackson annual Nine fr: clared 1 for the the nurn The p of the 'I include test, the Self-lmi tions b string q Accor' fraterni· songs a just be group o Dutchm Song, a Mohaw~ one son one coli conditio won thE be perrn this yea Frate1 to date Theta I Phi, D Lambda silon. • Day Cu elude 1: Ernest. Enzer. The 1 year by present! by the shown ing his The E the law will sta Eta 1 ToB( The l Eta Ka society, evening fessor : ·address to be f Harold The Benjarn Wilkim mond v tine I Mathes Rhodes Profess vester l in the l ing at Phi Dr. '\ Dr. ~ of the Public sily, wi nectad~ son As1 which· at eigh Ed ware Dr. 11 In Pu elected ter of to att'ilJ MEDI< StudE LawS· port at day to tificate quired. StudE the off to the save t:b ting a ments fice.

i ... -·- • • Song Contest Spring Night Feature t . I . .t__ ____ ___J tS Semerad Elected Student Council Chairman Vol. LVII., No. 58 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MAY 18, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS Nine Fraternities Enter Song Contest For Spring Night President's Residence Is ·Chemistry Courses To Under_go_Alterations In Sum.mer School Wor-kmen al'e now busy making · numerous improvements and alter-a- CALENDAR Today Tennis, Union Schenectady. Golf, Union Hamilton. vs. vs. Rutgers at Colgate at · Semerad Elected Chairman Of the New Student ·Council Best Siuging to Win Day C\ip In Annual Exercises in Jackson's Gardens Monday Ten Students Necessary tions on the president's .residence, Dr. Charles Hurd Announced located just inside the Blue Gate. Arranged as Pre-'Med Aids .. Dr. Dixon Ryoil Fox, President- elect, is expected to take up his Three Courses in Field abode there sometime this summer. A modern heating system, de- vised by Mr. Hoadley, college In order to facilitate the shift bursar, is being installed, together from the present departmental to with a new bathroom. Changes . the divisional organization, e .ec- are also being made in the bath· tive next fall under the new nUion rooms and the entire interior is be- Plan of Education which offers ing redecorated. The woodwork is four instead of five courses dur- A ward for Senior Showing to be repainted and the walls and ing junior and senior year, the de- . Most Definite Imprcvement ceilings repapered. Weather strip- partment of chemistry will conduct ping is being laid throughout and 'three courses this summer. the floors are being refinished. In making the announcement · Much interest has been shown ~n Another important alteration is ·today, Dr. Charles B. Hurd, chair- t the enlargement of the 'library in man of the field of chemistry, the inter-fraternity singing con est order to accommodate Dr. Fox's ex- made it clear that the courses a.11e which will be held Monday night in tensive collection of books. offered especially for the con- Jackson's Gardens as part of the Last year a new slate roof was venience of those students who annual Spring Night exercises. added to the dwelling and the ex- might find it too difficUlt to carry terior was stuccoed and painted. these courses next year with their Nine fraternities have already de- other work under the \four course\ clared their intention t() compete c I t c I d · plan. Each will be given only If for the Day Cup, more than twice 0ffiP e e . a en ar there are at least ten students the number of entries last year. F R t f y registered for it. The program which is in charge Of es 0 ear The courses are General Chemis- of the Terrace Council, will also try, either for beginners, or for include an inter-class singing mm- more advanced students preparing test, the awarding of the Kreusi Sports, Commencement Con- for the study of medicine or the Self-Improvement Prize, and selec- sume Time for Remainder B. s. Chemistry degree; Quantil;a- tions by the college band and tive Analysis, and Organic Chemis- Tom.orrow · · Phi Beta Kappa meeting at .. Three-Letter Man and Honor Student Succeeds Flinn r1c~!~e~~r:;~·n!~~eg-~erfield vs. As Council Chail'l~an and Student Body Presi- Union at Deerfield. dent·, Begins Fourth year on Govet·ning Body Baseball, Union vs. Hamilton at · Schenectady. Track, Union vs. Trinity at Sche- nectady. Lacrosse, Union vs. Stevens at Hoboken. Sunday Broadcast f.rom Memorial Chapel at 11 a. m., under the auspices of City Fedet'ation of Churches. Monday Spring Night-7:3() P. M. in Jackson's Garden. Tidmarsh to Play Requests Sunday Due to Popularity Ot·gan Re- citals Will Continue During the Examination Period ________________________ ,~ NE'V '~U\ PROPOSED Made Chairman . MiMr Sport$ Award Sug- gested as 'U' Without Let- ters Designating the Sport Ralph D. Semerad, '35, was elect- ed chairman of the Student Coun- cil for the next year, and a new minor sports letter was adopted at the final council· meeting of the year beid 'Tuesday night. Retiring Chairman Daniel F. Flinn, '34, read a summary of the council's activi- ties during the past year. string quartet. Of College Year at Union try. According to the new rules, each The classes will begin Tuesday, A program of requests from his fraternity will sing one of its own June 12, and will be conducted on audiences will be played by Dr. El- By virtue of his office of Student Council Chairman, Semerad auto- matically becomes president of the Student Body. A member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity, Semerad is outstanding both as a student and an athlete. He has won varsity letters in football, baseball, and basketball and has been on the Dean's List since his freshman year. Last week he was elected to the Student Council for the fourth successive year and was tapped for the Terrace CounciL songs and one college song picked Inasmuch as The Concordiensis Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and just before the contest from a will not be published until Com- Friday, both mornin.g and after- mer A. Tidmarsh in the Union Col- RALPH D. SE~£ERAD group of three college songs: The mencement Day, the calendar of noon until the completion of the lege Memorial Chapel on Sunday Dutchman's Song, The Terrace events for the next three weeks are courses. The classes in General afternoon at 4 o'clock. Due to the Song, and Old Union Beside the summarized as follows: Chemistry and Quantitative Anal- demand for students for the con- Mohawk Vale. Classes will sing There will be a baseball game ysis will run apout six weeks and Notf TerraCe Ht\gh Minor Sports Award one song of their own choice, and between Union and Trinity at .Sche- the Organic Chemistry will run certs, which provide a period of re- It was decided to recommend to one college song under the same nectady Wednesday, May 23, and a about twelve weeks. laxation, these concerts will be HearS Dr. Lt:.rrabee the Athletic Board that the new conditions. The ~raternity which golf match Friday, May 25 between The fees are estimated and may continued through the examination &&, minor sports awards will be white won the contest last year will not Union and Colgate also at .Schenec- be lowered if more than the mini- period, despite the fact that there ln. The proposed U will be a little be permitted to sing the same song tady. mum number requirec:Jregister. The will be no regular chapel ser:vices --- sm~ller than the major sports let .. this year. The track team will meet R. P. I. fees·. General Cheml'stry, \'\5·, ld b ter ,and there will be no other in- t S h d S d th 25th \\' d · h t t· Professor Haro A. Larra ee Fraternities entering the contest a c enecta Y atur ay e . Quantitative Analysis, $60; organic urmg t a 1me. itials. Winners of these awards to date are: Alpha Delta Phi, Beta On the same day there will be ten- Chemistry $70. A wide variety of works have Addresses Loeal High On will be expected to buy their own Theta Pi, Chi Psi, Delta Chi, Delta nis matches with R. P. I. and Ham-' The fees include cost of tuition, been requested, with selection insignia as in the past. The cost for Phi, Delta Upsilon, Kappa Nu, ilton in Schenec~t dy an~ a hsome chemicals, water and gas. But ranging from Cesar Franck, Tchai- Problem of Machine Age such sweaters will be about ten Lambda Chi Alpha, and P. si Up- lacrosse game w1 h Williams. un- d t f kowskl and Wagner, to Stoughton, dollars apiece. d th C 't F d t' f Ch h they do not inclu e appara us or sllon. Judges who will award the ay e 1 Y e era 10n o urc - Ketelby and Palmgran. Before turning the meeting over 'Jl th b d t which a deposit of $10 is required Stat' th t 1 · 1 Day C11p for the best singing in- es· WI sponsor -ano er · roa cas The concert will open with mg a man · s mam Y re- to Semerad, Chairman Flinn re- clude Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Dr. at 11 a. m. In the Memorial Chapel. for each course. t' Franck's \Chorale in A A![inor,\ so- sponsible for the \evils of the ma- ported on the activities of the Ernest M. Ligon, and Mr. Milton :M:. Baseball vs. Mass. Tech. Dr. Egbert K. Bacon. will teach called because of the resemblance chine age,\ Professor Harold A. council during his term of office. Enzer. The baseball team will play Mas~ General Chemistry; Dr. Hurd, of the main theme to that .found in Larrabee, head of the Philosophy Among the accomplishments listed The Kreusi Prize, awarded eac;h sachusetts State in Schenectady Quantitative Ahalysis; and Dr. hymns. In this piece, the first part Department, addressed the student were the voluntary reduction of year by Paul J. Kreusi, '00, will pe Memorial Day. The third in the se- Frederic C. Schmidt, OrganicChem- is given over to the Chorale theme assemblies of the N'ott Terrace the council's appropriation, the re- presented to the senior adjudged· ries of broadcasts by the City Fed- istry. itself; the second part brings in a High Scho()l this weeit on the sub- organization of class elections, the by the Terrace Council to have eration. of Churches will be held Those desiring to register fol',.the beautiful \adagio\ melody. The two ject of \What Shall We Do With reinstatement of hockey, the dras- shown the most improvement dur- Sunday, June 3 In the Memorial summer session should see I;lr. themes seem to contend with each Machines?\ tic revision of freshman rules, and ing his four years of college. Chapel. Hurd, or Miss Wilkie in .the main other, and the piece is closed by Dr. Larrabee pointed out that the the appointment of a Tax Commit- The exercises will take p'lace ~m Classes will resume for the Feb- chemistry office. the first theme played on a full machine age has be.an praised and tee to study the student tax ques- the lawn beneath the Nott Elm and ruary-September Class Monday, organ. blamed for Its many advances and tlon. The complete text of Flinn's will start at 7:30. June 4. Surveying Summer School The second group will consist of abuses, without either its propon- report Is printed on page three. will begin on the same day. Mountebanks Nominates \May Night,\ by Palmgran, a Fin- ents 0 ropponents having much un- The council voted to instruct the Wednesday of that week there Will G. Stt·oebel and J. Emans nish composer of the modern derstanding of the true facts of the Athletic Department to place the Eta Kappa Nu Initiation To Be Followed by Dinner be a meeting of the .Athletic Board school. This will be followed by an matter. four-tiered bleachers on the south In the Gymnasium at 7:30. Tuition --- adagio from Beethoven's \Sonata The issue constantly facing us, side of Alexander Field and re- payments for the F~i!bruary-f;leptem- George w. Stroebel Jr., '35 and. Pathetique\ and Marcel Dupre's he continued, is whetb.er machines serve them for the use of students ber Class will also be due· Wednes- John B. Em-ans, '35 were nominated Prelude ad Fugue in G Minor. shall come first and set the pace during tile coming football season. Th · th 1 b ' f th d. A f w ' f I for men, making them routinized e mn anua anquec o e · ay. fo. r president and secretary respec-- . gr()Up o agner music o - ,..,~, ...,_ · F B d Et I \'-odrl h D n bate 1 robots; or whethe rnachines can .......... e ......,s1gns rom an a Kappa Nu, honorary electr (1al uu c • uane e tively of the Mountebanks, and ows, with the wild and powerful society, will take place Wednesday The Goodrich-Duane Prize De- business and stage staff app·oint- \Ride of the Valkyties\ opening be put in their place as instru- The resignation of Professor evening at the Y. w. C. A. Pro- bate will be held Thursday, June 7. ments were announced at a meet- the group. Dr. Tidmarsh will play ments of human purposes. Charles T. Male as leader of the f P t · · I w ld 'II · t 8 · th Old Ch 1 Ci t th · t d t' t tb th\ d Dr. Larrabee concluded that if college band was .read and accepted. essor e er . o w1 gtve an a p. m. m e ape . ass ing of the executive committee .of nex e m ro uc 1on o e 1r address on his new theory of light Day Exercises will begin in Jaqk- the college dramatic society held act of ''Lohengrin,'' which portrays the latter conditio!l. is to become A committee was instructed to con- to be followed by a shol't talk by son's Garden Friday at 2:3(). p. m. yesterda:y· aft&rnoon. the joy and excitement accompany- true, much more understanding of sider 1\eW applicants for the posi- H ld Ell'th '34. Th 1 t' f th 1 1 i th · f m·I d L h the true nature and history of me- tlon. Flinn read a letter from the aro · 1 orne . . e annua mee mg o e oca Joseph A. Woolman, , 35 was ng e marr1age o sa an . o - h . 1 . t The cere~ony for the initiat~s, chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will be named business manager for next. engrin. c an~ea mven ion 'Will be needed, Schenectady Police Department re- BenJ . m· Aim B · '35 .. ..-·1 hel·d 1·n Wash· burn H. all a· t. 4 p m· Th. f th d 1 di especially in Schenectady, a city questing the return of flares stolen a 1n on rown , ...... 1 o . . year, and William B·. Kwiat•kowski, e our an cone u ng group W 'lk' ·E '35 J h Ed th d Th 1 f t· 'II 'th St h noted for its technical attainments .ftom construction sites near the 1 mson · . ames , o n - e same ay. e var ous ra er- , 35 , stage manager; Robert M. WI open WI oug ton's tone mond White, Jr. 'il5, VincentAugus- nitles plan teas and the classes will Brown, '3-6, and John E. White, 'S 5 , poem \Within a Chinese Garden\ and facilities. college. tine Doyle '35, Kenneth Natt have dinJJ,ers between 4 and 7 will be master and associate elec- which is marked by an oriental · Mathes '35, and Chester Malcolm o'clock. There will be a meeting of trician respectivel'\· Assistant sta.ge theme, and an extremely persistent Rhodes, Jr. '35 will be attended by the Trustees in the Faculty Room managers are: B~njamin J. Wli- and monotonous rhythm. \In a Professors Frederick Grover, Syl- at 8 p. m. son, , 36 , and Robert T. Shreve, , 86 • Monastery Garden,\ by Ketelby vester Haefner and Edwin Hamillil The Mountebanks will present Irving Dw.o. rsky, , 36 and George will follow, with its peaceful, rest- LATE NEWS FLASHES in the il:aectrical Engineering build- their production of Sidney How- Melinette,. '35, will assist the busi- fu'I, theme bespeaking the perfect Geoi·ge M' eli'no.f.te E'\ 'I' Llcted' ing at 5 o'clock of. the same day. ard's adaptation of the French play ness manager. Carlton M, Garrlso.n, contentment reigning within the \\ \\ ---o--- \S. S; Tert.acity\ by Vilibrac in. th. e monastery Gar· net E' di'tor·I·n-Chi\ef '37, is appointed property manager .. · · · Phi Beta Kappas to Hear Mountebanks' Theatre at 8 p. m. A more ambitious work in the. Board of Governors President a.nd Secretary same class, \The 1812 Overture,\ by Dr. W. E. Mosher Tomon·ow The Board of Governors will The nominations for the two ex- Peter TcaJhikovslty, will conClude George Melinette. '36. waR PleC't- me~t in the Faculty Room Satu.r- ecutive offices of president and sec- the program. This overture; writ- ed editor-in-chief of the next year's day, June 9 at 10 a. m. Commence- retary will be acted upon at a meet- ten for the consecration of the: Garnet, it was announced this Dr. William E. Mosher, director merit exercises will .begin with the ing of the Mountebanks this after- Cathedral of Christ in Moscow, morning by the Pul>l!mtion~ Board. of the School of Citizenship and Alumni Procession starting from noon at 1:30 ·o'clock in the college built to commemorate the burning. He will succeed r>uncan McNab, Public Affairs at Syracuse Univer~ the General Engineering Building theatre. The members, those who of the city In 1812. Tpe first rendi-, '35. Duane Feathersionhaugh, '36, sity, will spea)t at the annual Sche- at 10:30. The Board of Trustees have been awarded keys for work tion was accompanied by all of the was also elected to the Garnet nectady meeting of the Upper Hud- will meet l~ the Faculty Room at in the society, may make nomina- church bells in· the city,, and the board to succeed Thornton Whip- son Association of Phi Beta Kappa the same time. Th~ President and tions from the flo1>r at that time. drum parts were taken by the can- pie, '35, as managing editor of the Burton :belack, ;36, was elected business manager of the 1936 Gar- net last week by the Publications Board, to succ:;eed Les Patridge, '35. Deiack gntduated from the Mo- hawk Country Day School, and has achieved a high :;cholastic record, b~ng on the Dean's List. He is p:-e·.ldrnt of the French Club. and Is affiliated with the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. - -----{)~ -- - MALE l\IA.KE8 STATEMENT which will be ,held tomorrow night Trustees will review the Alumni St b 1 1 t d f 'd non of the Russion army. same publication. at eight o'c.lock at the home of Dr. p · i th t c t roe e • nom na e or presl e~t, \I'll not throw stones· in any- . rocess on on e Fron ampus a has ta. ken a prominent pa. rt in the Melinette, a resident of Brcol{!yn. b Edward Ellery. '11 a m The C!as f 1934 Ill be · ff'l' t d lth th Ch' p · ody's. way in the direction of fu- . · · s 0 w Mountebanks p· roduct.iol1B durin. g· Mountebanl's to Repeat P·lay 1 s a 1 Ia e w · e 1 RJ fra- · Dr. Mosher's topic is \The Crisis r· ece1'ved 1'nto th AI. · B. d t ' t 't ·H. 1 · ture bands at l!nion,\ declared . . e umru o y a the last tw()· years and is particular- erm y. e s assis.tant manager- In Public Utilities.\ The ne.wly thi'S game n· uri'n Commencem\\nt We k' I' t f f 11 Charles T. Male, Assistant Profes· · ly noted for his work in Hamlet, g \\ e e ec o a sports, a :rid was appoint- elected members of the Union chap- Lacross vs. Alunuil. The Second Shepard's Play, and ed assis4tnt business manager of sor of Mathematics, when asked by ter of Phi Beta Kappa are invited There will be a lacrosse game on The Hairy Ape. He plays on th. e the Mountebanks by the executive Tbe Concordiensis this morning for to att'ilnd. Alexander F1'eld at 11·15 b tween· ''S S Tenacit· \ b Cha 1 V'l b d f th t 1 · a statement on his res. ignation as · · e varsity tennis team and has. been · · y, · Y r es ' - oar o a organ zahon yester- the Varsity and. Alumni. Bailotlilg on the Dean's List since his fresh- drac ,the M()untebanks Prom Pro- da,y. In his freshman year, Melle Director of the Union Band, which MEDICAL AND LAW SCHOOL for Alumni Trustees will be held ·man year. He is affiliated with the duction,. will be rep(!ated on Friday, nette played with •the freshman was accepted by the Student Coun- NOTICE in the Old Chapel from 12 to 1 Delta Chi fraternity June 8, during Commencement football team. · cil earlier In the week. --- o'clock. The Alumni will hold a ' weekend. This will be for the en- Featherstonhaugh, a resident of Profe:;;sor Male organized the Students entering Medical and luncheon in the Gymnasium at t Emahns, tbhe noml 1 ntee tfor secrte- tertalnment and convenience of Scheneetady, is a neut 1 al. He has band in l912 and haR led It for 1R LaW Sc~ools next year sl\ould re- 12:45. ary, as een ass s an proper Y alumni and their friends. maintained a high scholatic aver- of_ t~e 2 2 yearR of its f':CiRtPn<\f> port at Dean Garis' office on Tues- The Alumni will play the varsity manager of the Mountebanks dur- Reservations have already been age, an dhas been on the Dean's m!ss.mg. two two-yNl r periods for day to fill out their qualifying cer~ baseball teatn on AleXa.nder Field ing the last year. He is a graduate. made for the performance it was List during his whole . t Re-rvJce rn thP army durmg th<> we1r tificate. A ,fee of one dollar is re- a·t 2·45 Th p ld · t' R. tl of Albany Academy and is a mem- d b Milt M' E u · Th career a period. · · e res en s ecep on be of Alpha D Ita Phi f t 't announce y on . nzer, mon. Is year he acted as asso- quired. Will last from 5 until 6 p. m. Be-· r e ra erm Y· graduate manager. ciate manager of the 1935 Garnet, Students may bring currency and tween 7:30 and 12 p. m. there will agWe ooilsmr:,n,mthe bnew bfustihness maitn- The Mountebanks wiil hold elec- and is a member of both the Band I BA.ND DRAWS l:l' l'ETITI0;\1 the offiCe will send a blanket check be an .Alumni gathering on Alex- d b rti t em edr o edytars Yf Uons for their officers for the next and the Glee Club. In his freshman -- • to the State Department in order an!ler ;Field.. Teh aCnng eadml a_n ,:ew 1 s e 1 orbo season during the next week. All, year, he was secretary of hi~ class At a meetrng of the band this · save them the inconvenience of g·et- Commencement Exe· rcise· s w1'll b~ e 0 cor ensis. ~+e s a mem er m wb h b d d th d t k t · r h t k' ... - of the Kappa Nu fraternity. en o ave een awar e e' an oo par m res man rae ·j noon in the Old Chapel, a petitiOn tilig a money order . .Acknowledge- gin at 10 a. m. in Ute Memorial Brown and White were recent! ·emblem of the society are eligible FeaUierstonha_ugh whme hobby is I to have Prufes:oor l\1ale contmue as inents will also be taken at the of- Chapel. Dr. Irving Langmuir wiil Y to vote, and are 1,1rged to attend geology has d1scove red many caves leader was drawn up and signed by fice. be the Honorary Chancellor. . (Continued on Page 3) the meeting, in and around Schenectady. practically everyone present.

Two \A Causa Poraa ParoltJ Assai\ FOUNDEI) 1671 g.\ssodatect !~\c\) ~re.ss --;:: J9JJ ~~N_A~~-E~ 1934 ;_ The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Frid~ys throughout the college year, except dunng Chx·istmas a.nd spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y.,. Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union ~ollege, Schenectady, N. Y. All other commumcations to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi Psi Lodge, Union College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway ..•....... Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg ........... Business Manager Donald B. Moulton ........•.. Managing Editor Joseph A. Woolman .............. News Editor Milton A. Berger ....•..•........ Sports Editor Thornton w. Whipple .... Circulation Manager J. Anderso-n V. Gilbert JUNIOR BOARD R. North A. Stevenson V. Trumbull Issue Editors: J. Anderson, V.. Gilbert Repo1·ters Contributing to This Issue W. Ferguson M. Bedell W. Horstman F. Feldman H. Cohen F. Feldman N. Stewart R. Passenger FRIDAY MAY 18, 1934 NOW THA. T IT'S OVER THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRI!JAY, MAY 18, 1934 the year's work made at the final meeting RAN:DOM OBSERVATI:ONS By Sidney David Markman MUSIC by Rankine Hinman of the year by the chairman, Daniel Flinn ••. l.!;:;;;;;:::=;;;;;;;;====;;:;;=;;;;•===========;;;;;;;;===;;,s During the past season the Glee With this which is to follow :r .cannot find themselves and erect, Club and Choir have again .main- On several occasions during the past year, am about to close and bring to an therefore, pinnacled mountains of tained a standard of work which end the meanderings about my .feathers which are blown about in has drawn the highest praise from criticism of the council has arisen, which thoughts, as is my habit, and to ti:Le profoundest confusion With the aJl sides. A constant change of leave off setting them down, for comming of the slightest breeze., numbers necessitated by the \'e feel In 2.·eneral was UnJ'ustified. The those of you who care to be read And it is a confusion of utter si- Choir's weekly appearance makes \ - each Friday. >lence, nor ·does it even cause a ,pin it impossible for that body to at- 'll 1 dron noise in the realm of things tain quite the finish in its work Cou ncil v·as by no means perfect, nor did it In less than a month I WI eave \ 'b th Gl Cl b ·v tlle college. 1 leave with a heavy which are. which is poss1 le for . e ee u . h t d t hl 'nh \'I w 1 ·thin myself. I· have found· a. T-he sincerity and expressiveness of m ·a·ke a bl'l'·lll'ant shO\'l'ng 'but l't :has cooper- .. ear an my regre S, w ~ I a- th Ch . rth 1 h f \ though ·they sada:en me, are never- humility that bows ·down before e otr, neve e ess, ave re- . t tt 'th Th C theless tempered with a kind of me, the gods, and men. I know .quently provoked a very Warm com- ated on 1mportan 111a ers Wl' e ·on- passive acceptance and accompa- that 1 ain nothing yet I am every- pliment from visiting ministers. nied ·by a quiet joy and satisfaction. thing. The stars, the heavens, the Dr. Tidmarsh's Influence cordiensis and has accompHshed things It js a satisfaction which is not chemical elements of the body, the Union students are hardly supe- altogether ultimate, but shows the desire f()r immortality, love are all' rior in inherent musical ability to which neither organiz~tion could do single- road to a completion which can in far greater tha:n any individual sir...gers of other colleges whose pro- no wise be attained; for, simply !by whom they ex:ist. 'ductions they excel!. The explana- handed. put, it is too la:te! And because life Soon 1 must leave me and begin: tion of their success is to be found, cannot be lived over again, because a :life of keeping myself alive, of rather, in Dr. Tidmarsh's leader- Of its own accord, the council cut its ap- the past cannot be regained, all feeding my stomach, of running' ship. No one realizes this more that remains is a memory; that is ,about and going, nowhere. By the than the boys who sing under him. propl'iation in half, and established a much enough for regret. Gods, the forces without me, that They are .conscious, too, that his While here I learned a great deal, hold all men. in the course they influence develops· more than their ne.eded Tax Committee. Followng drives by but it is a learning which I shall are ever following,. is that all there ability as singers. Far more impor- in no way ever be able to put to .is for them? tant is the training which Dr. Tid- The Concordiensis, hockey was reinstated, use. I have learned to live a life Yes. No doubt all life is illusion. marsh gives his men in contribut- which in a month I must give up. What is a man that is, and what ing their utmost attention and in- freshman rules changed, line coaches were What have I learned here? Noth- is a man that is not? Man has befiln terest throughout a rehfilarsal, in ing that I can joint to or ennum- bestowed with-no, he merely has never being sati~fied with anythi~g secured, class officers abolished, and student erate in long lists. Vaguely I say, I a power which allows him to es- but ~he best 'Yhw~ they can do, m have learned to be a philosopher, cape within himself; to think some puttu:~g meanmg mto every wor~, body me€tings altered. to live as a pholosopher. call it; and yet that power is not ·m bemg COJ:?-stantly B;lert t? the dl- Many will snicker. strong enough tC> discern any pur- re?tor, and 1 ll: regardmg mmute de- 0 b . 1 h' h 1' b f th pose to hi l'ving· and hence all talls of sha.diJ:?-g, ~ccent, and tone. ne lg tas { w lC Ies e ore . e new For four years I have been a:l- .s I • I . I I Improved dlCtion lS but one exam- lowed to remain at rest while the that remams, IS not to live. pie of the benefits which students council is to carry through the reform of world around me has been moving In less than a month I will carry away from a rehearsal under at a tremendous speed. The world Inerely live to live; and in time I Dr. Tidmarsh. student body meetings, to really make them which goes so fast, has not gone shall read; these words and say that The modern college student has nearly so far or to the wonderful I was a llttle soft once; thereupon, been accused on having his think- worth attending, to make them meetings places as I who have been static. ·if I am fortunate, I shall ~Ian an- ing, his exercise, and now even his Away from everything I have found ·other trip to Europe_; or If I a.m singing done for him. Irrespective where somethin!l besides trivial matters are myself. I have learned to direct my not so blessed, I Will go to bed of the truth of this opinion, there ~ attention upon my own being. and early because of the hard work to can be little doubt that student I . h d there I have found worlds upon be d~ne the next morn.ing and. the singing at Union has peen slowly aCCOmp IS e • worlds sweeping along tremulously Inormng after that unbl the grave .. petering out, absorbed by the syn- Th · t'll 1 fi ld f th St d t in great passionate and emotional I must soon go from the place thetic, vicarious forms which out ere lS S l a arge · e or e U en strides lifting me up to the high- where I have found and learned entertainment is taking. We hope · f f est towered heights of my own the only truth there is-all is illu- that, with our splendid collection Council to exert Its powers or the good 0 thought about myself. sion! of songs, a traditional Spring th ll Wh th 't t k 11 th And searching within me I have Blessed is he who knows illusion Night ceremony, and the Incentive · · · e CQ ege. e er 1 a es on a e pos- found that outside there is noth- as Illusion. To be pitied is he wbo of a widely known Glee Club,. we ing. All is none, one is a million, tWnks illusion reality! are no~ to surrender .our hentage sible duties it can, or whether it will lapse and a million is infinity; and that Leaving, I Ja,ment it is to no avail of muswal pleasure W1thout an ef- again is nothing. Nothing is, noth- that at last I have leru:ned the art fort. Final examinations begin on Monday and into a year of mediocre activity depends a ing nothing is! nothing is! of living, whieh shows the way to Correction d With a kindly patience I have the most glorious art of all, the We discover that our linotypist students are supposed to be better prepare great deal on its new chainnan, Ralph tried to look upon the fits of megc art of dying • has moved the Riverside Church Iomania of men-hunted souls who -so- downtown a hundred blocks, near for them than they would have been if the Semerad. As both chairman of the council the \relative silence of Broadway at 16th Street.\ Silent relative to two-week busman's holiday known as 're- and presid.ent of the Student Body Semerad II Jl the \181_2o_v_e_rture\ possibly view period' were not held. At the begin- can make history in the annals of Union's BESIDE THE BROOK. . . , EASY ON THE EYES ning of the review period we pointed out student government. !,!;;;;=======================;;;;;;;!! THE ARTIST face ir> every .painting. Those of us 000 At l'ast some advance tips on that under the present system of leaving the We wish to express our confidence in the A Prose Poem who are egotists, are also fools, for talkies. This \Viva Villa\ affair we imagine that our puny strength gives Wallace Beery a chance to inte1·pretation of the meaning of the term new chairman. For the benefit of the col- once there was an artist. He had can effect startling changes in the put on a magnificent act, which he does not muff; and this young de up to the individual departments of instruc- lege as a whole, we hope for the continued sleek black hair, a smooth face, present civilization. We are struck Mille lady is Quite a Person too. and mournful, serious eyes. This down by a fierce desire to reform But the film is crammed with tion would result in a general lethargy out cooperation between the Council and The young man could not paint houses, society, and consequently seek to wholesale shootings, whippings, and or trees, or mountains, or flowers, Introduce novelty and fadism. assorted tortures done with a gus- of . '\hl'ch students would derive no material Concordiensis. to that makes bad meat for a res- \ or ·birds. The only thing he could With fooUsl1 sincerity, we casti- tive populace, say we. Let's not go benefit. Several instruet<>rs have made this past fortnight worthwhile by holding a series of SERVICE TO THE COLLEGE review lectures. On the whole, however, the Two students, Thornton Whipple, '35, and impression given is that both the faculty and Edgar Moulton, '37, have rendered a distinct unde1·graduates have enjoyed almost a two- service to the college this year which has week layoff. Irt is useles.s to assume that the gone by practically unnoticed. They are re- cancellation of all attendance rules will en- sponsible for the playing of the bells whieh paint was men and women. But gate the wo1·ld with our verbal Mexican, just yet anyhow. the curious thing about his pic- scourge<J, We •beat our breasts and 0()0 \Twentieth Century\ gives J. Barrymore a chance for a romp tures was, that although he never tear our hair, crying all the while through a part that is positively used a model, the face of each man that the world is a hotbed of evil obese. And how he does supply the or woman in his pictures was ex:- and of vice. We thunder vehe- ham for those HollyWood sand- actly like his own. mently for reform. Yet, as is often wiches! Alongside is a completely miscast damsel, no matter what the One day a friend, thinking such ·the case, there is only thunder, and critics tell you, one Carole Lombard actions queer, took occasion to a.sk, no lightning. We are powerful as the tempestuous Lily Garland, \Why do y:ou always paint your horses, without carts. acted in the stage version by the own face in your creations?\ On the other hand, those of us really temperamental Leontovich. Miss Lombard, ever the clothing- The artist answered: \Life has who are collectivists, are equally store dummy, strikes poses and reality only as physical existence in culpable. It was to this coterie runs vagrant hands through her the mind of a man, and a man can that Shaw directed his remarks. blond locks, but all to no purpose. only know Life in proportion to his Th t lt t d h k 000 What with films by Anna Sten e vas mu 1 u e w 0 rna e up and Jimmy Durante, this season thought.\ this group are really like so many has run the gamut, as you might sheep. They do not really live, but say, from Zola to Schnozzola! are content to mark time for the 000 New mouthwash ads in the courage students to go to the library and in- are located at the top of the Memorial dulge in serious preparation for their ensu- cha·p\'l. \That is true,\ said his friend, \' with wrinkled .brow, \·but it does ing examinations. The majority of the un- Until this year the administration has not tell me w.hy you paint only your own face.\ dergraduates make good resolutions about found the means to give the operator of the The artist continued: \Reality is studying at the beginning of the review carillon a scholarship equivalent to the known separately in every man's mind, and Life is mirrored in the period, but such resolutions are in a very amount of tuition. The college resources few cases lived up to by those who make were limited this year and that scholarship them. paintings of the artist as well as in the writings of the novelist. These men, bringing to the world was not made available. Yet, these two un- only the product of their inmost dergraduates took enough interest to see Take the example of a student nursing the that the carillon was played every day and normal schedule of five courses. If he was donated their services. Suffice it to say that they made this move thoughts, attempt to show tis their conception of reality. Can you wonder, then, how I can help paint- ing my own face?'' • • • New York Subway read: \He does duration of their existence on not suffer from 'Morn:~ng Mouth.'\ earth. They are content to crop Perhaps it weans a lad who has no 'daintily at their food, following 8 o'clock classes? · h bl' d d 000 Cambridge, Mass., has just their shephard VVlt a · m evo- built near the Harvard Yard a. fire- lion wherever he may lead. They do house so arty and Colonial that not thin!;: of questioning his capa- everyone thinks it is number eight bilities, or, if they do, they still fol- in the new Harvard House plan. Recently the mayor of Cambridge low /because they have been trained issued an edict that no sirens could to do so. · be sounded by fire-engines issuing Recently, the body of men form- from this house on Thursday ing the Historical Society of Amer- nights. Reason: they might disturb the concerts by the Boston Sym ica reported that the trend of soci- phony given in Memorial Hal ety was towards collectivism and nearby. Hail Cambridge, the city away from individualism. This re- where the arts are respected! port is only too true. There is a 000 Cambridge is also smiling over fortunate the review period might have been conducted beneficially to him in two of his the pun committed at the expense of their own fr.ee will-however, they have George Bernard Shaw once said: paucity o-f leaders. By leaders we of former President Lowell, who \Whenever I see a man too com- do not mean reformers, but real built and built and built during his done a better job of their work than was fortable, I do my best to make him level-headed men who are capable administration. Some wag com courses. His other three courses disbanded compulsory attendance and in two of these the instructor did not even meet his stu- dents. Thus, this typical student of Union done in the past. To put it mildly, they uncomfortable.\ Prying into the of guiding the people. Only too plained that he had an Edifice-Rex complex. h d h b ll . meaning of Mr. Shaw's statement, often our leaders are shallow-mind- O()O If you cannot imagine a Dean's · av.e rna e t ose e S l'lng-with a new life. startling (jisclosures are impressed· ed men who have caught the im- official report containing humor, It is indeed gratifying that there should upon us, as though the very gates aginations of the people through r~ad this passage by the late Dean be proof that in Union College there are has been prepared well for two of his final students who do not put all their servi·ces on examinations and has been left to either a mercenary basis. College students in gen- sink or swim for the rest of them. eral a1·e often accused of being willing to The middle of May is the poorest time of render services only when they can see -a the whole year to expect students to work personal remuneration-certainly Messrs. on their own. Tennis, h?rseshoe pitching, Whipple and Moulton furnish evidence that golf, softball and lacrosse occupy too much such an axiom is not one hundred percent of a student's free time. true. of some sacred< garden had been political trumperies. These men Briggs ·of Harvard, a gentleman, a are .shejlhards, leading the flock by scholar and a great guy: \It is mel opened, allowing us to ramible at divine inspiration rather than by ancholy to see able-bodied youths will through its· fertile groves. [t actual co;mmon-sense knowledge of the victims of disease which permit can be said, upon reflection, that conditions. all pleasures and forbid ali duties; the great mass of American popu- To categorize men as egotists, it is almost equally melancholy to see how they spell the names of lation falls into two categories: We driven to create :by their vanity, or the diseases with which they are to dub them senseless masses of are either rugged individualists, or ·flesh whose sole virtue is a feeling perfunctorily afflicted.\ else we are collectivists. of \'bien etre/' Is a serious indict- 01)0 Everyone who imagines that i ment. T.here are, there must be, is. a great feat to \put cine over\ on • * • The artist, pictured a:bove, falls naturally int'O the individualist. group, with that naive egotism which led him to reproduce his own a Dl'lan, should remember the great thinkers and humanitarians· in the saying of Dean Brlggs, which ought world! It is for us to weed them out and set them over us. Let us be to be on every decanal desk: \I had rather be fooled a dozen times ruled 1by logie and honesty, rather than be unjust once;'' than :by ~gotists and fools]. S. R. IGNOTUS. ·,Monday Biology Chemis· Engine1 French Geolog) History Physics Psycho: Spanisl Tuesda; *Biolog HChemi Chemi ***H:istm Types *The s Dr. Dale istry 1 **The medici Chemi: ***The s Art w 300. Wedne: Eng lis Frencl Ger1m Greek Histor Latin Mathe Physi< Physi: Spani: Reinf< Thurs1 Econ:c Ecom *Engll: Geolo Surve *TheE repor1 The se Mr. : Chen: Frida; Biolo *Dra-w Econ Elect (Jt Eng! Engl Engl Gern Hist< Hist< Lath Matl Matl Phil< PhyE PhyE Poli1 *Stud repo: Monrl EcOJ Elec to Frm Gerl Mat Mat Mm Phy Poll Spa Str1 Tues Bio· *His Hig Mec Ph~ Ph' **Ps~ Perll of Mal ed is t asked class l to m~ prof t office, down nounc promc He elf dollar he ne the id pickec it thr< had 1 the h< nett< comn: \Here with \dolls and s mulbc for p. the!! ia to

THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 18, 1934 Thr.ee I Fina:l Examination Schedule 1933-1934 ''I ~ Facntty Nine 'Defeats. Flinn Presents Report of Student E PLURIBUS UNUM Intramural Champs 6-2 C . •1 A ti·• \t.. f p t y I!=;;=;;;;=====: -- ounci c v1 tes or as ear Led by their tricky track coach Ther·e is no peace for the living pl\tche!.' Bill Ketz, the Faculty base- . -and less for the dead. We were The following is the repor.t of the the council members could see no reason why organizations not giv- ing adequate return to the college or students, either in the form of service or favorable publicity, should continue to receive appro- priations out of all proportion to their worth. A committee, headed by William Waldron, '35, spent sev- eral weeks investigating the re- ports of organizations benefitting by the student tax. The lengthy re- port proposed the establishment of a Tax Committee which would have power, after hearings on the sub- ject, to use a sliding scale in award- ing the organizations applying for appropriations only such amounts as they merited in the opinion of the Committee and the Student Council. Monday, May 21, 9 A. M. Biology 21 Chemistry 31. Engineering Law French 1 Geology 1 History 23 Physics 11 Psychology 3 Spanish 1 Tuesday, May 22, 9 A. M. *Biology 1 \*Chemistry 1 Chemistry 21 ***History of Art Types of Constt'Uction *The sections of Dr. Mavor and. Dr. Dale will report to the Chem- istry Lecture Room. **The students prepa;ring for medicine will report to the Chemistry Leature Room. , . ***The students ta;king History ·of ' Art will report to Bailey Hall, 30(). Wednesday, May 23, 9 A.M. English 13 French 5 (freshman) German 5 (freshman) Greek 2 History 30 Latin 21, 22 Mathematics 31 Physics 2 Physics 3 Spanish 5 (freshman) Reinforced Concrete Thursday, May 24:, 9 A.M. Economics 1 Economics 2 *English 1 Geology (senior E. E.) Surveying *The sections of Mr. Carroll will report to Bailey Ball, 300. The sections of Mr. Weeks a:nd Mr. Smith will report to the Chemistry Lecture Room. Friday, May 25, 9 A. M. Biology 31 *Drawing (freshman engineers) Economics 11 Psychology 21 *The sections of Professor Bron- ner and: Professor Mosley~s sec- tion 6 will report to Bailey Hall, 300. **The sections of Professor March of Psychology !L wm re- port to Bailey I:-Iall, 300, Thursday, May 31, 9 A. M. The Bible Building Construction Chemistry '22 Economics 10 Electrical Engineering Labora- tory (Senior Ehl) English 1 {mid-year class) English 20 French 3 French 13 French 21 French 31 Greek 21 IDstory 26 Latin 11 Mechanics (~mphomore) Physics 1 Political Science 12 Friday, June 1, 9 A. M. English 10 German 1 (mid-year German 2 (mid-year *Mathematics 2 Mathematics 21 Philosophy 11 Railroad Curves Structures class) class) *The sections of Professor Bm·- kett and Mr. Ulrich will report to Bailey Hall, 300. Saturday, June 2, 9 A.M. Economics 21 Electrical Engineering Theory (Senior EE) Elements of Electricity (Sopho- more) English 22 German 21, 31 History 1 (mid-year class) History 1() History 11 Political Science 10 Psychology 2 Psychology 11 Sanitary Engineering quite willing to take our editors at baH team defeated the i·ntvamural Student Council as presented by ·their word when just a week ago champions for the third successive the .president, Daniel F. Flinn: they published the statement, \The ·year, when they downed the Beta Cotmcil Appropriation Cut Concordiensis hopes to continue its Theta Pi fraternity 6 to 2 Wedil.es• other columns, ':hiasy on the Eyes' :day afternoon on Alexander Field. In addition to its routine duties, and 'Oh 1 Heard,' and for that Ketz allowed on outfield hits and the council has contributed much reason we shall not reveal here who .struck out a half dozen batters. to the progressive spirit which has •t th · \ But npparently prevailed throughout the college wr1 es · em. <>' u· ru\on Plan Cummins scored the th • \JI'ng to Jet sleeping this year. The council voluntarily eyre unwl 1 f\ 1 rst run for the faculty, coming d l . s h 1· a bit more of cut its own appropriation to $400 ogs 1e. o ere 5 · ' ·home on a sJ·ngle. Physicist Fox. hat J P R nu ·ght call \hog at the beginning of last year, thus w · · · · - ·brought J·.n a hard-earned run when wash.\ reducing the student tax by $.50 for he climbed over the audience along every student. This was made pos- 'the third base line ·and crossed the sible by the surplus from last year's * The end is upon us. The \reed- plate on his hands and knees. Other Junior Prom, which was turned ing\ period is over; most of us' runs were scored by Ketz, Leonard over to the council in accordance are passing the long, dreary hou;rs and Bennett. A potential two-base with a stipulation of the constitu- in kneeling over our dull books m hit .by Physchic Ligon was con- tion. For the first time, no special a reverential attitude of prayer, · verted into a double play when Hal- tax was levied .for the Freshman- awaiting the fall of the axe. Prom lenbeck, the Beta second baseman, ~ophomore scraps, which were re- is over; most of the campus battles leaped up in the air to make a one- organized and financed by the stu- have come to a happy conclusion;. handed catch. dent council. and everyone is indifferent to th~se Thursday the faculty nine contin- Class Elections issues which several weeks ago m- ued their string ef victories with a terested us roost. In other words, all 7 to 2 win over the Delta Upsilon When time came for the class · is dead. Ho·w futile then any at- team. Ketz allowed only five hits elections, supervised according to tempt to continue our columna! and again led his team with a the constitution by the student · style. Oh why did they not let us triple and a double. Economist council, another precedent was set rest in the grave? Bennett also got a triple, The pro- by holding them in Memorial ~­ .. * , A Word to the Innocent and Uninitiated There are circulating ll!bout the campus sheets ef paper of varying . sizes to which many students ha.ve been requested to affix their signa- tures. These are commonly known as \petltion:s i. e., the thing the tearful mother sends to the gover- nor in the hope of saving her way- ward son from the noose or chair. These .petitions are in most in- stances quite harmless, and we have no reason to suppose our campus brand to be anything else. But quite often such Ui'lderground cam- paigns entail a woeful waste of paper, ink and time. We have every reason to believe such to be the case here. There is but one use that we would suggest for the pap- er being circulated about the cam- pus. As for the wasted ink and time, well, that's up to you. Your autog1·aph5 may be worth some- thing someda-y, fessors scored five of their runs in pel on a day when it was conven- the first stanza an dthe other two ient and expedient for every Union in the secend, while the D. U.'s tal- undergraduate to be present and lied both their runs in the sixth record his vote. The result was the inning. largest total 0f votes cast ever re- 'l'he faculty has lost only one of corded in student affairs at Union their 5 games this season going College. down 15 to 12 before the Alpha Hockey Reinstated Delts. Three more games are on schedule, the Phi Gamma Delts, the One year ago hockey was elimin- Deita Phis, and Psi Upsilon. The ated as an official sport. The coun- team lines up as foUows: Hal, cil was as!{ed by The Concordiensis catcher; Ketz, pitcher; Ligon, first; to secure its reinstatement and in Cummins, second; Bennett, short- the following fall a committee was sLop; Fox, 3rd; Hesson, left field; appointed to investigate the situa- Leonard of Chillrud, centerfield; tion .The ultimate result was that Thatcqer, right field. . t).1e hockey squad was restored to favor and enjoyed a successful sea- Mountebanks Nominate G. Stroebel and J. Emans son, g·iving its wholehearted support in keeping the rink in condition. Freshman Rules Clumged The Concordiensis then took up a campaign for the reorganization of freshman rules. The council again gave to a committee the task of studying the situation. The re- Sub-Freshman Weekends Success In the spi\ing of this year, the Administration proposed a plan for a sub-freshman weekend. The whole-hearted co-opuation of the council did much to make the weelt- end so successful that it is to be repeated eaah year in the future . Student Body Meetings Changed The Student Body recently ap- proved a report of the council in regard to meetings of that organ- ization. In the future, meetings will be held the first five Mondays fol- lowing the opening of college and on the first Monday of every month thereafter. The captains of any teams having contests since the previous meeting are to report on the games and more spirit is to be aroused by the singing of the Alma Mater after every meeting and any other college song at its opening. POLICE REQUEST The Schenectady Police De- partment has requested that any students who may have taken flares from construction sites on or near the campus will please leave them at the Admin- istration Building or return them: from where they have been taken. • (Continued from Page 1) awarded keys for their work on the technical staff of the Mountebanks. They constructed the new .$wit,c:h- boal.'d which was used for t.lte first time for the Prom proauction. Kwiatkowski was master carpenter for the Mountebanks during the last year. port of the committee resulted in ---------------- drastic changes of a progressive nature. Tax Committee Inaugurated Call Ball Electrical Engineering Theory <Junior> Monday, June 4, 9 A. M. Prof. Schauifler-the conscientious chaperone--evicted two gentlemen from the Beta dance last Saturday merely because they had a bottle of liquor in their possession. The boys were not drinking at the time and were conducting themselves in a --~>---\--- Incidentally- Foi\ some time the members of the council had been hearing com- plaints about the uses of the stu- dent tax and the laxity of manage- ment among student organizations) subsidized by contributions from the student tax fund. This money I runs into thousands of dollars and English 11 English 12 English 25 German 1 History 24 History 25 Latin 1 Mathematics 11 Mathematics 22 Philosophy 12 Physics 21 Physics 22 Political Science 11 *Students taking Drawing will report to Civil Engineering Bldg. Monday, May 28, 9 A. M. Economics 25 Electrical Engineering Labora- tory (Junior EE) French 5 (sophomre) German 5 (sophomore) Mathematics 1 Mathematics 2 (mid-year class) Music 1 Physics 33 Political Science 31 Spanish 5 (sophomore) Structural Design Tuesday, May 29, 9 A. M. Biology 1 (mid-y-ear class) *History 1 Highwa:y Engineering Mechanics (Junior) Physics 23 Physics 32 **Psychology 1 MAY FEVER Perhaps one of the worst cases of May fever that has been report- ed is that of Professor Bennett. He asked Bill Brockwebl to stay after class and aslted him if he wanted to make a million. The learned prof then escorted Bill into his office, locked both doors, pulled down all the shades, and then an- nounced that he wanted a good promoter to promote his latest idea. He claimed to have discovered that dollar bills grow on trees, and all he needed was somebody to put the idea across. The noted runner picked up a typewriter, and heaved it through one of the windows, and had nearly escaped by means of the hole in the window, when Ben- nett caught him by the leg and commanded him to sit down. \Here's the idea\ said the prof.' with a twitch of his moustache, \dollar bills are made of paper, and silk threads. I propose to grow mlllberry trees ,use the wo'Od pulp for paper, and raise silk worms on the leaves. All you will have to do ia to combine the paper and the Biology 32 Electricity (Junior CEJ English 21 English 24 Greek 13 History 21 Mathematics 12 Mathematics 24 Physics 31 Political Science 16 Psychology 22 Tuesday, June 5, 9 A.M. Biology 2 Biology 11 Chemistry 11 Chemistry 21 CBS in Chemistry) Economics 20 English 30 German 3 Latin 3 Philosophy 1 Political Science 13 Spanish 21, 31 Wednesday, June 6, 9 A. M. Chemistry 12 French 11 German 11 German 12, 13 Greek 12 Philosophy 2 Psychology 12 Spanish 11 Thursday, June 7, 9 A. M. German 2 Political Science 1 silk threads, and we will have grown dollar bills.\ By this time, Bill bad jumped •through the hole In the window, and did. not stop running until he reached his own room and had buried himself under the blankets of his bed. Jolmnie March pulled a fast one in class the other day. After tak- ing the roll call in his 10:20 section he remarked, \Well there are fewer boys in the abnmmal class in this section than in my 9:20 class. In that division there were nine abnormal boys who are being taken to the asylum in Utica today.'' The poor boys! There is one symptom that has not been as apparent this year as usual, and that is the free adver- tising afforded the faaulty baseball team by Dr. Ligon. We remember a statement the psychologist made once, to the effect that while he was in college he played varsity, and was never struck out, further- more he stated, \anyone who str~es out wlilh a soft blloll is a sissy.\ Far be it from us to call a professor nam:es, but when Ligon struck out three times in the next faculty gam:e, well- respectable manner. But perhaps a **·'*At the Mohawk Golf Club, last man should not be criticized for Wednesday when Union played doing his job too well. The funny Middlebury-a certain Union senior part of it all was that the gentle- on the team chastised Union stu- man and lady who had just fin- dents looking on with: \Hey watch ished sampling the contents of said out there, will ya kids?\ Ahem, bottle were permitted to remain at these lordly seniors! the dance. In spite of the chaperone ****At the same place-our golfing the dance was, with the possible Dean came within six inches of hit- exception of the Kappa Alpha, the ·ting a Union spectator, on a par- best on the campus. ·ticularly long and straight ( ?) • • * drive. (The Union students was walking in the rough to the left of Even though Mr. Sudermarm has the bhway), Better luck next time, not taught at Union during the past Dean! year, several of his campaign man- ****Repeal--A police car pulls up agars solocited and obtained the before a three family house. Two signatures of a group of freshmen, poli~men begin to ascend the to a petition intended to prove that stairs. A young woman in a green Mr. Suderman is a very capable dress runs out on the third floor teacher. That ought to make any- porch, looks· down, and runs back one smile. in, sla.mming the door. The police \' • • go in. Ten minutes; a crowd gath- The Sig Phis turned their house ers. The police come out the side over to their charming female alley carrying a drunken, half- guests last weekend. Today their crazed husband. They drive away. beds, mattresses, sheets, blankets The wife and children laugh and and pillows were seen all over the talk with the neighbors. Another southern part of the campus. Al- \sinister influence\ has 'been re- though we are unfamiliar with their moved. particular problem, we would sug- ****Good old days-A bill in the li- gest that Flit is much more effec- brary's Unionana files for a \sea- tive than fresh air and sunlight. son's\ at Union gives tuition at AND the Fir~: Shall Be Last,· and $10.75, and room at $2.00. Total bill ~ was $76.75. No, 1816 not 1934. The Last Shall Be First. ****N.R.A.-A middle-aged man This coluffill has been a co-opera- stumbling blindly down a side tive venture. We wish to express street, mumbling to himself and to our appreciation to our •·cl>ntact a rriend who is consoling him: \I men' thr~mghout the college who done my fair day's work! Why did alone have made this endeavor pos- they have to lay me off?-I got a sible. We have tried to present that family to support.\ side of college events which does ****Library Iarvae--Frosh, blotting not ordinarily appear in print. Ink with the cuff of his blue shirt- Nearly every column has been cen- F. D. P. (Jr.), holding a card cata- sored and 'cut.' But we have tried log drawer upside down to prove our best to tell you all. If we have that the cards are fastened-Stu- pleru>ed the majority of our readers, dent assistant falling flat over a we are glad. Good luck. clothes-tree (I didn't know boys fell E. P. U. for clothes-trees)-A very flushed GOING UP Complete modernization of all elevators in residence halls at Co- lumbia University will be undertak- en soon at o cost of $23,50Ct. person describing vividly how some one scraped the paint off his fen- der (His car's fender).-A column writer's pen going prohibitionist (dry to you). Praise be to the pen. F. E. T. u:::::::::::::a::m:::::::::::::::::::::::::~::i:::i:::::::::;:::s:::::::::::::&:::::::::::::::::::::m:::::::::::::::::::::::::r.::::::::::i!i THE CAZEnE PRESS PRINTERS ~ ~ - ~ Ill ill m ::; \!:1::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::i;::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::!:::::::::::~:::::::::::;:: An Invitation for You To Travel by Railroad When you return next Fall- assuring you comfort with speed, your convenience with safety At \College Special\ Fares SAVING YOU ONE-THIRD The Railroads of the United States and Canada are continuing re- duced round-trip fares three times a year from home to school and return for students, faculties and staffs of educational institutions. Going and Return dates- GOING TO SCHOOL RETURNING FROM SCHOOL Round-trip tickets may be Return portion of ticket may be ~set~t\tO Home·sta- purchased at Home Sta- tion during any one of the per.iods named below: t.ions during any one of 1--C:=h:--:ri-st_rn..;n::..s-.:,----;Sc:-p-r,-in_;g __ ,----:C::;I;-o-se---1 the periods narned below: 1934 1935 1935 Aug, 25-0ct. 5, 1934 Dec.25,1934-Jan.l0, 1935 Mar. 15-Apr. 17, 1935 Dec, l()-25 Mar. 9-Apr. 15 Mar. 9-Apr. 15 May 15-June 30 May 15-June 30 May 1fr.-June 30 Going trip must begin on date ticket is purchased-limited to reach school station within ten days. Return trip must begin on date of validation of ticket by rail- road agent at school station-limited to reach home station within ten days. Tickets good over same route both ways. Stop-overs will be allowed in each direction. Tickets good in coaches, also in Pullman cars, upon payment of regular Pullman charges. Baggage will be checked under the usual regulations. No certificate or other form of identification necessary. • TRAVEL BY TRAIN \C'moul Sometime\ AND SEE OUR MODEL DAIRY FARM AT DUANESBURG PINE GROVE DAIRY TELEPHONE 4-7741 WE CORDIALLY INVITE OUR CUSTO~RS AND THEIR FRIENDS TO DRIVE OUT AND SEE OUR FARM WHERE WE PRODUCE OUR OWN GRADE 'A' MILK

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 18, 1934 Trackmen Picked To Defeat Trinity Team By Sixty Points Three of Hatfield's Depeuilables Blue and Gold Has Beaten Mass. State and Tufts In Only Meets By GEORGE R. CORY. JR. Led by Captain Daut and Kellam, who scored 21 and 16 points re- spectively in the undefeated Trin- ity College track team's decisive victory over Massachusetts State by an 81 to 45 score, the Connec- ticut runners will meet the Garnet at 12:30 o'clock tomorrow afternoon on Alexander Field. In spite of these two stars, Union is expected to have little difficulty with the vis- itors, and should win by a margin of 60 points or better. The Trinity team has also defeated Tufts Col- lege 73 to 53. Kellam, who takes part in four or five events, has done the 100 yard dash in 10.5. Charley Krull has been flirting around the 10 flat figure, and should do 10.2. In the 220 yard dash, the Blue and Gold star did 23.8, but here again Krull has the edge. It is doubtful, fur- thermore, if Kellam can defeat Tur- ner or Burton in the high jump or Naguszewski and Krull in the shot put. Trinity Weak in Javelin Daut runs both the hurdle events and throws the javelin. Last week he won both hurdle races, running the highs in 16.4 and the lows in 27.7. He will have to step much faster to beat either Turner or Wal dron in the highs, or Turner in the lows. His work in the javelin which is around 143 feet does not come close to Hal Gallant, Alex Brzos- towski or Charley Krull. All in all it looks lik!> a bad day for the two Trinity stars. Union should take first and sec- ond in the 440, with John Ross and Don Moulton representing the Gar- net; the 880, which was won last week by Woodbury of Trinity should also go one, two for the KetzmPn. Gladwin and Baur of Trinity have not equaled the times of Bob Gottschalk or A. P. Wal- thers in the mile this season, while the Blue and Gold has nobody who can come anywhere near equaling Bill Kazmierczak's time of 10.12 in the two-mile. Garnet Strong in Field In the field events, the Garnet has the edge in most cases. Al- though Craig of Trinity can do 5 feet 10 inches, both Alec Turner and Emery Burton are after the college record, which is just short of six feet. It is understood that they will both try fot· this record again tuul<lrrow, and they both have an excellent chance of break- ing it. Trinity swept the discus in both meets this year, but 119 feet was the best Blue and Gold effort. In this event they will be fortunate to get a third place. Emery Burton and Mal Griffing will be extended slightly to win the pole vault as Mowbray and Stewart can do 11 feet 6 inches. Both the Garnet rep- resentative~ have done 12 feet this year. In workouts this week, Bill Ketz's team looks better than ever. All the runners and field men, with the exception of Ed Bastedo, are in perfect shape. The big Garnet two- miler has been having trouble with his arch, and it is still doubtful if he will compete tomorrow. Bill Ketz will not use him if he is not all right, because he has his eye on another undefeated cross-country season next fall, and expects Bas- tedo to be one of the mainstays of the team. Union has brol{en a record in every meet this season. This meet will see more ·attempts made to bet- ter existing marks. In addition to Turner and Burton going after the high jump record, which is held at present by Charles Savage, '31. Burton will again shoot at the pole vault marie Leon Naguszewski may very possibly break his own record in the shot and the discus, whil<> ther<' is n remoti' pogsibility that Gallant or Brzostowski will better Han y Parker's javelin mark. -----a- Mohawk Lacrossemen Have Scheduled Four Con tests The Mohawk Lacrosse Club, com- posed of former Union players, has four more games on its schedule for the season. On May 26 they will meet Colgate University at Hamil- ton; on May 30 Williams will be play~d at Williamstown, and on June 2 the Alumni will meet the Ithaca Lacrosse Club at Ithaca. The season will be closed on June 9, when the Mohawks engage the !inion varsity ten. The following players have been invited to play with tlte Club team in the contest with the varsity: Stranahan '30, of the Manhasset Lacrosse Club; Redinger, '32, King- ~ton. '28; Finegan, '33, of the Mont- clair Lacrosse Club; Capelle, '33, of C. C. C. Camp No. 50 lacrosse team; Adams, '32. of the Watertown La- crosse Club; Hagar, '30, Dorn,. '32, Swick, '32, Cinella, '32, Hesson, '27, Garafolo, '28, H. Dill, '33, Murray, '33, A. Livingston, '31, Aldrich, '31, Clark to Be Hurler Opposite Hamilton Southpaw, Recovering From Leg h1jury, to Jt'ace Blue and Buff in Try as Pitcher By WILLIAM E. FERGUSON Hamilton College comes here to- morrow to avenge a 9-0 shutout handed to them by last year's Gar- net nine. 'l'he game will be played on Alexander Field at 3:00 p. m. George Clarl{, regular fi·rst baseman · of the Union team, will be on the mound in his first hurling assign- ment this year. From left to right are Ralph Semerad, Union's roving center fieldei' and clean-up man; \Chip\ Dain, peppery shortstop; and Jim Loomis, alternate pitcher and left fielder. (?lark, who has been out of the lineup for two weeks as a result of a leg injury, is a lefthander and has yet to assume the pitcher's box for the home team. His leg has now healed sufficiently for him to participate actively in the game, and it is a question as to how well the Garnet portsider can control his curves and drops under fire. Captain Garrison has suffered a leg injury and will probably not play. It is possible that Griswold, Brandow, or Reed will play in his place. The Continentals have been fair- ly successful in their baseball cam- paign this year. St. Stephens, who bowed 15 to 0 to Griswold's pitch- ing, was also bowled over by the Buff and Blue by the score of 13 to 3 m a six inning game which was called on account of rain. Hamil- ton was also successful in their en- counter with Albany State Teach- ers' College, who were vanquished to the tune of 10 to 2. Glendening, the Buff and Blue's winning hurler, allowed but two men to collect safe hits and ten of the Albanians went the way of all good fanners. Al- though beating St. Stephen's and Amherst, the Blue and Buff lost to Rochester, 1l to 10. The probable lineup: Union Fiore, 2b Garrison, rf Dain, ss Semerad, cf Loomis, If Bush, 1b Reed, 3b Stevenson. c Clark, p Hamilton Millham, 2b Morrow, If Bicknell, ss Harding, c Shinn, 1b Sliter, cf Glendening, p Gummerson, rf White, 3b Frosh Stickmen to Finish Season Against Deerfield By MILTON D. BEDELL The Fresman Lacrosse team will conclude its schedule tomorrow aft- ernoon when they play a return game with Deerfield Academy at Deerfield, Massachusetts. A squad of twenty-five men will leave here at 8 o'clock tomorrow morning, have dinner at Deerfield and then prepare for the contest which is scheduled for two o'clock. Deerfield Academy is holding its annual Par- ent weekend and all the teams will compete at that time. Fred Wyatt has bUJlt up his team from practically raw material. Jack Smith, H. Tompkins, and Don Mac- Innes formed th~ nucleus about which lhe team was constructed. All of these men have had previous experience and have proved to be of immense value to the team. Those freshmen who have quickly acquired the knack of handling a lacrosse stick and the faculty to play the old Indian game have rounded out the rest of the team. Among the most outstanding of these newly converted stickmen are Russell Knox, John Marsei!a, \Duke\ Fenton, Don Liffiton, Har- old Vandecar, El Fraser, and Dick Kennedy. The varsity positions left open by graduation will doubtless be filled by some of these players from the freshmen team. Although not considered so at present time, fr osh lacrosse will be a recognized sport next year. The lineup will probably consist of the same team which started in the last game as follows: Tomp- ldns, goal; Fenton, point; Faelton, cover point; Liffiton, first defense; Knox, second defense; Fraser, cen- ter; Vandecar, first attack; Mar- sella, second attack; MacMurray, out home; Smith, in home. 0 GARNET NOTICE All houses which have not paid their picture bills for the Garnet are requested to pay them to Duane Featherstonhaugh, '36, in the Pub- lications Office, by next Wednes- day. Engel, '29, Norris, '32, Langworthy, '32, Wyatt, '32, of the Mohawk Club, and Forbes, '31. The starting lineup in the other three games will consist of Dill, goal; Engel, cover point; Swick, point; Hagar and Murray, defense; Wyatt, center; Aldrich and Dorn, attack; Cinel!a, out home; Living- ston, in home. Watch Them in the Highs Tomorrow On the left is Captain Alec Tmner goU,.g over the low hurdles, and on the ·right is Bill Waldron topping the highs. Theil• ra(l(> in the high hurdles tomorrow against Tl'inity is: expected to be close. Netmen to Oppose Varsity Ten Meets Rutgers and R. P. I. Stevens Tomorrow Chances for Victory Against Lacrossemen Drill Intensive~ Scarlet Seem Remote; Tro~ jans Seek Reveng·e for 1933 ly Ironing Out Weaknesses in Blocking and Passing Stevens Institute will engage the The Garnet tennis team is facing varsity lacrossmen on Library Field a strong Rutgers outfit this aftet·- tomonow afternoon in the fifth noon on the local courts in an at- tempt to turn in their second vic- tory of the current season. A win is rather doubtful for the home team in view of the fact that the Scarlet has defeated Army, 5 to 4, and Swarthmore 8 to 1. Earlier in the season Coach Aydelotte's net- men dropped a close tilt to Swarth- more, 4 to 3. Captain Chrysler plays number one singles, and his supporting sin- gles players are Sam Keats, George Stroebel, Jack Moffett, John Rob- erts and Joe Cohen. The exact line- up was not known at time of pub- lication. Moffett and Stroebel will again play first doubles later in the afternoon, with Chrysler and Keats forming the second combination. The third doubles team was un- known as this issue went to press. Len Strauss, ·a senior, is expected to take the post in the first sin- gles match for the visitors, with Roger Williams playing second. Williams is a sophomore who has been playing a superb game this season and may be counted on for a victory for the Scarlet. Gil Kel- ley is expected to play number three singles, with the remaining singles players being chosen from Kyle, Hauck, Smith and Matthews. The first doubles combination is made up of Strauss and Keeley, while Williams and Kyle are the second doubles team with Hauck and Smith playing third doubles. Tomorrow afternoon the Garnet will face its traditional rival, R. P. I.. on the local courts in an at- tempt to duplicate the 6 to 2 vic- tory scored at Troy in 1933. In their first contest of the season the Engineers were defeated by bel- gate by a score of six matches to game of the season for the Gar- net players. After another week of intensive practice, the home team should present a more formidable attack than they did against C. C. N. Y. on Prom weekend. Coach Harkness has been drill- ing his men in blocking and pass- ing and the evident defects in these two phases in the last encounter should be overcome when the team takes the field against the New Jer- seyites. The Union team will prob- ably consist of the same players who have started in the past games. Captain Foote will play his old po- sition at in home where he has proved to be of immense value to the squad throughout the season. Foote is high scorer for the Garnet team and it is hoped he will con- tinue his phenomenal playing in the game tomorrow. Bob Oppenheim, who has been performing stellar work on the field this year, will remain at 2nd defense and will be aided by Berg- man or Kern in the other defense position. Ed Barna, one of the most outstanding goalies seen at Union in many years, has been a main- stay of the team. and has saved the team embarrassment continually. Van Waldron, Ed Taylor, Dune Mc- Nab, Stan Mower, Bill Fraser, Hugh Elwyn and Joe Agius have all been filling their positions on the team satisfactorily. With these men on the field, Stevens Institute will find it difficult to p.enetrate into their opponents territory. ----01---- CONCORDIENSIS NOTICE three. The Trojans are expected to · The Concordlensis suspends pub- lineup as follows: Singles-Wun- lication with this issue for the ex- der, Root, Huggard, Luening, Ze- t maltis, and Setapen. Doubles-Root amina ion period. The next and and Wunder, Warner and Luening, final issue of the year will appear Zemaitis and Setapen. on Saturday, June 9. Nine Wallops St.. Stephens As Griswold Gives One Hit Grisw()ld Limits Purple Hits; Latter Walls Error To Five Score· on By WILLIAM E. FERGUSON Although outhit, eight to five, the this sine/ he tool~ charge ·of f.irst ·base fi>r Clark. >I< \' * Captain Garvison got his sixth straight hit when he hit the first ball pitched to him in the first inn- ing for a single to right field. Gary was batting five ·hundred up until the Williams game. * .. .. Williams College varsity baseball Ralph Semerad finally crashed team provided a second snag in the th:vough with a hit after two hitless victory march of the Union ball games. He nearly hit the· ball out of the lot twice when he got hold tossers as it handed the Garnet a 2 of two slow balls which went for to 1 setback at Williamstown fouls·. Had they been straightened Wednesday afternoon. Guy Gris- out they would have .gone for sure wold was charged with his first de- triples .. Such long hitting must not feat of the year, and Sucher, Pur- be a very common occurrence over ple ace, was credited with a win. there, judging from the ohs and ahs Griswold pitched sterling ball, al- ·from the crowd as these two balls lowing but five hits and walking' went merrily on t)leir wa.y. only two Williams batters. No two • * * hits came in the same inning and' it was an error in the second frame Mosely, Williams catcher, had a that paved the way for the first bad habit in the fourth inning of Purple .counter, and .a walk in the throwing his bat. Twi<Je did the third for .the second run. Gr.iswold stocky receiver sling his willow struck out six men and in the down past third base. Had it been fourth inning set the opposition the ball that flew instead of the down with three straight strike- bat, a different score might have outs. been chalked up against the Gar- net. Union Scores First \' * * Union was the first to score when Griswold had things all his own a lone run was pushed across the way in the fourth frame, striking plate in the second inning. Loomis out the three batters that faced opened the frame with a strike-out. him in one, two, three order. Griswold then singled to right and· went to second when Dain lined to Mcinerney, Williams third base- man. Stevenson then reached first base when Mcinerney picked up the Union catcher's hit which had rolled slowly along the third base line, and Griswold crossed the plat- ter with the Garnet run of the afternoon. In their half of the second, Wil- liams tied the SC{)re when Lasher singled to center fielO, Hapgood got to first on Fiore's error, Lasher going to third, and then scoring when Mosely grounded to Fiore. The winning run came home in the third fi'ame after Forbes had walked, Stevens flied to Semerad, Forbes taking second on the throw- in, and then Butler laid down a per- fect bunt to score Forbes and reach first base himself. Rally Fails .. .. It's a .good thing that Bush has a lot out in front to slide on. He is particularly given to diving head first .for a base. Saves wear and tear on the knees and hips. .. * 'l'he summary: Union (1) AH R H PO A E ~'iore, 2b . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 0 0 2 2 1 Garrison, l'f • • • • . • • • • 3 () 1 1 0 0 H.eed, 3b . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 0 0 0 2 0 Semerad, cf . . . . . . . . . 4 0 1 3 0 0 Loomis, lf ........... 4 0 1 2 0 0 Oriswold, p • . . • • . • • . • 4 1 1 0 5 0 Bush, 1b ............ 4 0 3 10 0 0 Dain, ss . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 0 0 0 1 o Stevenson, c ......... 3 0 1 6 1 0 z-Branctow ........... 1 0 0 0 0 0 Totals .............. 34 1 8 24 11 1 Williams (2) AB R :-1avins, 2b .......... 4 0 I•'orbes, ss . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1 Stevens, lf ........... 4 0 Butler, cf ............ 3 0 Lasher, 1b ........... 3 1 ·Union's l>iggest chance to tie the Moseley, c ........... 3 0 score came in the first half of the Hapgood, rf · · · · · · · · · 3 0 II PO A E I 2 3 0 0 4 3 3 1 (} 0 0 I 1 1 0 1 14 2 0 0 2 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 3 3 0 0 1 3 0 0 () 0 0 5 27 16 3 · th · · A:ft S d h d Mcinerney, 3b ....... 2 o mn mnmg. er emera a Sue her, p . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 o struck out for the second time this Salsrich, rf . . . . . . . . . . o o season, Loomis singled to center Totals .............. 28 2 field. Griswold grounded out to the z-Batted for Dain in the ninth inn- second baseman, Loomis being safe ing. on second. Bush reached first on Two-base hit-Bush. Earned runs- a clean single down the 3rd base- Union 1, Williams 0. Struck out-By 1 . b t B d · h h'tt' Griswold 6, .Sucher 3. Stolen bases- Ina, U ran ow, JHnc 1 Ing Garrison, Stevensnn, Hapgood, Butler. for Dain, was unable to bring him BasPs on. balls-Off Griswold 2. Sucher home as he grounded out for the 1. Left on bases-Union 7, Williams 4. last putout of the. game. First base on errors-Williams 1. Don- Bush crashed through with three ble. play-~ol'b.es to. Lasher. Winning hits out of fou times at bat This Pit< her-sm het. Losmg pltcher-Grls- .r · . wold. l'miHre-Leary, Time of game-- Is the second time that he has done i 1 hour. 55 minutes. WE.LL COLLECT YOUR BAGGAGE - take it home ... and bring it back again Here is a simple time-saving suggestion that will eliminate a lot of unnecessary trouble and worry for you. Semi all your baggage, trunks and personal belongings home by Railway Express. Wherever you may live, if it is within regular vehicle limits, Railway Express will call for your trunks and bags and speed them away on fast passenger trains through to destination. You'll be surprised bow easy it is and how quickly your trunks will be home. Thousands of 1 Phone 4-5612 fellows-boys and girls, too- have found Railway Express service an economy not to be sneezed. at. Then, after the vacation, send your baggage back the satne way and Railway Express will handle it swiftly, safely and promptly direct to your frater- nity bouse or other residence. Railway Express has served your Alma Mater for many years. It provides fast, depend- able service everywhere. For rates and all necessary labels, merely call or telephone Schenectady 1 N. Y. The best there is in transportation SERVING THE NATION FOR 95 YEARS RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY, Inc. NATION -WIDE SERVICE i. I I· ! ! ION AI GEOJ ROPE C1 BANKE I suspe know wl but his v last two t tory rath For tw out and didn't sh< Bill Ketz terest in might bE with the gan worl! fall, and 145 feet he climb· did othe his arms out on tl in snow 1 and he well. He and it is 180 feet fore he g 167 Satm f.al~:e firs· A SMAL CONF1 The ne having ' might pc step tow ference c such as: been ad' .As I un< herst a1 very jea their Lit blame tb pear$ to la Manl the othe ten tow SOME { Milt B his colur eral goc feels, a1 should b to the sports. ~ ways to team to games. • one or · on the E and he· The i York S tournam thing t.: good pt; pose tha a lot t<: the tour athletic somethil anyway. tinue to perhaps SHOUL: TffiS Once the trJ ! ••••• • • • :THE • • • • ••••• = 1 Col v [ Bl Phon< cc Cor

t h ;t ~- 'Y il a •f . e 7V n e e n g d a s d d g THE CONCORDliENSlS, FRIDAY, MAY 18, 1934 Five Golfers Seeking· First Win N. Y.,. defeated cornell, 4 t~ 2. Dick Stewart shot a 74. On the ON ALEXANDER FIE'LD !~~~n·~n;a~i~~~~.n:~~ ~~~ci~~:~ History of Union's Base ball Team ·the rap. This time, however, there . On Colgate Course Today Tuesday before the Colgate link- ~!~ ~~r::~. :~~~~ r~:~~~t~h~~~~ n~~ Reviewed in Collected Sport Shorts be so bad as they were three weeks This afternoon the Colgate Uni- ago when I tried to make a fine· versity golf team will be host to a Williams team look like a bunch of A snow storm in the middle of requived to run a mile every day Union outfit still seeking its first By GEORGE R. CORY, JR. .sters beat Syracuse 4 to 2. The Union team will probably consist of Captain Joe Horath, Julius Huin- mei·, Bob Langer, and BiU Chris- tian. hayseeds. April halted a game 1n 1882. of practice. . victory. The chances for the Gwr- BOPE CLIMBING AND SNOW Event Union Trinity· • \ • • • * net to break this string of losses BANKS .100 yard dash 6 3 In 1882,. the Ho~aM;, teEI:m exp~ct- Murray, 1917, went to the St. seem slim against an exceptionally The Williams varsity golfers easily defeated Union in their first encounter on the home links Wednc::;day afternoon by a score of I suspect that very few people 220 yard dash 6 3 ·ed ilo difficulty m Iaymg Umon Louis Ail'lericans after graduation. fine Maroon aggregation. La~t know who Alex Br;zostawski is, .440 yard da,sh 8 1 men out.\ They couldn't under- He had a bad h!l;bit of hitting the Saturday the team from Hamilton, but his work in the· javelin in the . 880 yard run .. , .. , . 8 1 . stand how Union had lost to Cor- ball through the fence in center - --- ~- - -- --- last two track meets makes· his his- Mile run .......... , . 8 1 nell. When the ~eventh inning of. field on the present Alexand~r !lllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllii&IIIIII'IIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIBII 5% to 1 ,;,. · t t• 2 il 3 the Hobart-Union game came Field. Union has had her athletes'! 11 II tory rather m eres -mg. m e TUn . · . . . . . . . . . . 6 d H. b t f d h If ·th • For two years he used to come 120 yard hig·h hurdles 8 1 · · ar.oun · ' 0 a:11 oun · erse Wl • • .. • out and mn for gym credit. He 220 yard low hurdles . 5 4 ·three men on base and none out. In March, 1918, practice was : IT'S PURE! IT'S DELICIOUS : b t Sh t t They did not, however, count on . • .Bdil.dlln'Kt esthzowlikmeducih:~d~:u~~~~. ~~- Di~cU:~hr~~.'::::::: ·. ·• 68 31 , the alertness of the Garnet catch- cEx. alled offf bectause e>f ~ivil SerVICe ·=. IT'S· W·HO'LESOM•E .• terest in track, and decided that he Javelin throw .•.... , • 8 · er, who dropped the third strike . ams or s ·enograp ers. · 1· th H' h · 1 purposely, picked the ball up, • • • • : might become a ~a 1 v~ m AI ro~er ·p·· 1T JU~Pt ........... 8 1 ,touched the plate, and caught a Excerpt from April,. 1918: 11 with the proper tra mng. ex e- o e vau ........... 7 2 man off third. The third baseman \The good news had come yes• : Serve Colonial Ice Cream at all Social EveRts : gan working out ld·n tthisd event last BrTost.~ump .......... 95 3 6 immediately threw te> first base, terday that Hal had passed his 11 • fall, and manage · . o o a mere o......., , . • . • • . • • . • . . • 31 , t h\ th t \k th d \stick\ exams and was eligible to 11 111 and Every Week .• 145 feet or so. During the winter, • !1. !I ca c mg · e s rl ·er ere an · com- play, when somebody had to put a . th d pletlng the triple play. Union won, d ti • • he climbed ropes m e gym an Why Can't We Beat Williams 7 to l. damper on the joy an men on 11 II did other ekercise to strengthen • * \' something about swimming. Hal . a • his arms. Day after day ·he was. For some reason or other, Union h d 't d th · d sWl·m • c 1 • 1 • Sends teams Over to Wl .lliamstown Accordin 0 \' to The Concordiens, is a n passe e reqmre - • Out On the fl .eld tos·o 1 ·ng the J\avelin ' . t t B t H I' d i 11 0 0 n 1 a · ~ to be beaten by the Pu·rple WI'th of June, 1888, the Union varsity m1ng es · · u a s en eavors n 111 a iann. dsnohwe bsatl.nkll sw: Tashensoetasdoo~;gta~t:ryd, startling regularity. Wednesday's was yelled and jeered out of first .athquatics are tso bpromisingf ththat : . = t h ball game was just another exam\ place in the league. ere seems o e no ur er 11 • well. He has kept at i' owever, ple of how our major sports teams * * * cause.·····\ Ill 11 and it is a safe bet that he will do, cannot win over there. Our ball Regulars of 1934 watch out! In Hal, by the way, is present Di- •: ICE CREAM •: 180 feet or so if he keeps up, be- · 1892, candidates for the team were· rector of Athletics at Union. fore he graduates next year. He did club should have won yesterday . 1. 67 Saturday against Rochester to Williams had no earned runs, and Ill • .Union had many chances to turn lacrosse, hockey and cross-country defeated the Purple here four years ·• • talce first place. . defeat Into victory. It is a jinx, and during the last four years. It has ago, but in two engagements over : THERE IS A DEAlER NEARBY I • • • . that is all there is to it. been a lot longer than that since there, we have come out on the • 11 A SMALL COLLEGE If my memory serves me correct• the football team gained a victory. short end-and both times, Union • • CONFERENCE ly, Unicm has won over there at The same goes for basketball. We looked better on paper. ll!lll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll•lllalllllllllllllllllllllllllll•lllllllll••1 The news that the Littl~ Three is having difficulties with Amherst might possibly be Interpreted as· a step towards a small college con- · ference composed of eastern teams such as Dr. Frank Parker Day has been advocating for several years. · As I understand it, Williams, Am- herst and Wesleyan have been very jealous of the reputation of their Little Three, and nobody can blame them. Now that Amherst a.p- pearf\ to be going in for athletics· a la Manhattan, however, perhaps · the other two institutions will lis- ten to what is an ex.cellent idea. • * * SOME GOOD IDEAS Milt Berger, our sports editor, in his column last week advanced sev- eral good ideas. For example, he feels, and rightly so, that there should be mo·re opp<>rtunity offered to the neutrals in intramural sports. There are any number of ways to get more than one neutral team to take part in our inside games. All that is necessary is for one or two neutrals with an idea on the subject to see Hal Wittner, and he will do something about it. The idea of reviving the New York State Interc<>llegiate tennis tournament is good stuff. Any- thing that will give the college good publicity is desirable. I sup- pose that the matter of money had a lot to do with the dropping of the tournament from the list of our athletic activities, but perhaps something can be done about it anyway. If Mr. Berger should con- tinue to mention this in his column, perhaps he could get some results. • \' * SHOULD COME FAIRLY CLOSE . TIDS WEEK Once again I will take a shot at the track meet. Bill Waldron ••••••••••••••••••••••••• : THE FARM i • • !THE COUNTRY CLUB! = RESTAURANTS : . - •••••••••••••••••••••••• rARK LAUNDRY, INC. 105 Clinton St. (Labor Telllple) PHONE 4·9011 College Bundles a Specialty We Have the Finest DE LUXE MOTOR COACHES To be had !In the Oapitol District BE CONVINCED-cALL G. A. WELCOME & SON Phone 4-8444 1171 Union St. COLLEGE GRILL SANDWICHES and BEVERAGES A Trial Makes A Customer Cor. Eastern Ave. Jackson Place W HEREVER the finest tobaccos grow- in our own Southland, in Turkey, in Greece - all over the world, we gather the very Cream of the tobacco Crops for Lucky Strike. And that means only the clean center leaves. The center leaves are the mild- est leaves-they taste better and farm- ers are paid higher prices for them. These clean center leaves are the only ones used in making Luckies. Then \It's toasted\ -forthroatprotection. And every Lucky is fully packed with these choice tobaccos-made round and firm, free from loose ends-that\s why Luckies ~'keep in condition,• -why you'll find that Luckies do not dry out-an important point to every smoker. Naturally, Luckies areal- ways in !!!-ways kind to your throat. \It's toasted\ { Luckies are f!!!:ways kind to your throat Only the Center Leaves-these are the Mildest Leaves Cop~ht. 1034,Tho American Tobacco CamJ)OIIII

Sb: THE CONCORDTENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 18, 1934 Student Journalists\ 16 Fraternities Visit Concordiensis 1 Chose New Heads High !-lehool Editors Inspect Facilities of College Paper, :o;ee Staff at Work l'uuun~ tu J1~t:U:-~ t'ututnun joul· ua·IL,;\tL' prubltlllti Wlth the nH~Illbt•l ~ of tllt• ~taff of the Concordiensb, l'ntun l'ulll'gt• ~tudent lJUDIH:atton. 1 t'jlll\>enta \1 ves of many high sehoul . <I><l pt<')J<Llatury ,;chou! new::;lm!Jers n~ttl·tl t.hl' utlll'l':; in t3i11Iman hall y.•,tenlay and \\'t•dnesday aftet- IHHI!l::. .i\pJdtl~itllah·l~ .)l.J Vl~lttll:: \\.'PIP ,·utHlueted on a tour till ougtt the uffl<'l'; !Jy Clemens 1<'. Hu.thaway anti Donald B. :'.loulton. editor-in- cllll'f ami managing edtt<>l'. re~p<'<'­ tiYt'ly. ThPy weJ<· ,;hown lit ~t thr pll>'Slcal factlitie~ of the paper. m- l'ludtng the Iii< o, the \murgUt' ... 01 tilt•::< m w lueh clipping:; of back ls- ,ouc•s uf the publication are indexed ,tll<l 1{<'1•1, tltP r epnrter,;' and eopy dt. :-k~. tllP till·~ uf pcq.H'rs exehanged ;nth utlll'r etdlt·gL'\• and the otheJ f,•a\lll<'\· all of whi<'l1 havP bl'Pn patteJ nt·tl aftt>r tho,;e Ill u:;e m thr l)ftl\-'l'~ of daily nt•\v~papPl!-. ~lernbl'l'~ of the staft' answet cd 'llH':<tions on h<'adline writing. copy and proof reading, the gathel mg of tll'l\':-' an<l the pt ublems of t lw <·d!\· 1n~ and malH•-up depat tmL•nts uf Lh•· ]•apt·!. The bu,.int·\\ managPJ ancWei eel qut'l·ies on the !inanl'ial pt obit•m,; uf the shed, un tlll' gath· •·J tllf4 of advertisl'!llt·nts and upon the maklng up uf thl' ad\'t'l tbtng ·dummy.\ ;;p•·d:tl .. x:lnblt:< ha.vt· bt'l'll placed toll d!>'play of examplt•,; of Concord!· en:-i~ ~~~tl(\~s for thP last !'our yea I::;. lll<'lll<hllf.: thP \extra:;\ J!Ublh;lll'd UJ><>ll tlw tl',.;Jgnation uf old and th<· -•+·•\tl\n of nL'W ptt•:;idt•nt\. from Dr. H1chmond to Dr. Fox; th<' head- ! me chart of the paver, example:; of makeup and adv••rtl:;ing \dumnlie:o and a ~et of th\ photos, halftone~. l'llt\ and mat,; u:;Pd Ill t'1e pl inting \f pJrt Ul ''\ for the papet. A po:ot<.>r LtJilL.ill1ltlg a :-.all11Jltl of the qUP:-'- tll•nnailP J'PC'l'ntly hsued to the ;-;tu- <h·nt b<~tly on fpatur·ps and polll'll'~ of t lle Con col dirnsts, anu a graph pf the r\sult~ of the suvey we! e dls· lJLtYl'tl. Thr vbit was ananged and cx- hibito pl('pared under the direction of Donald ;,\loulton, the !\1anagmg I-:ditor of The Concordiensis. l~t•ptt·~Pntatives ft om school:o in :-;, t ... Jwct.atl\' and Scotia: Mohawk l'•,unt 1·y D;ty School, Richard Day an<l \\'Jllwm ;:-.;\avin; Tenace Tri- !Jun<·, ;\ott TPll ace High School, Jt,\,. 1 t '; u\·on, Otto Dekow. \\'an<la J:u,.;tt.-, 1:11i g.,!Jbino, C\1anon SwirP 1 >ut '\·' l!<>w•·. H..tl<' C'1 okPn, Frank· i\ tt Wtn• ltt·ll. Jatne~ Spt·nc<·. Donald ~l:il<·t, ~h1 J<>lll' Lf'ibel. ChaJiot\P L.lJinan. 1 i::ttl\'c ~!udg•· an•l F.l•·nnor Fl•' ,Jlll.<l1, Iii-Tim\'· Sc·otia Hh!h Sehoul, Albt·l t Bitch, C\lnry Hosco, Bt•njanttn Hoot, ;:-.;'pbon Dny\P, Edith tit•! \\'II and Sayla Cul~•·n. FIUm the \l!illtojlil'a publica- uon uf the Fott Plalll H1gh School. Fut t l'J.un, N. Y .. Wl'll'. :\1ilton Sp<·ncer, ltichard C\1elliek. G. Wit- ham. Betty Pat k, Selma Cooper, C\1artha Bennett, Frank Bmu·man, \\'alter· Rmltin, RobPrt ::\.1oyin. Riehartl Frantzman. Helen Free- bald, Eltz.ti.JL\lh Smi:h. Cl:llC Har- tington. Cbt a Smith. and I. A. l'hl'lp~. ;\!. p \Echcws of SchuyiPtVillt• High :·kLuol.' St Lt!Ylt•! ville, ;:-.;'. Y .. wa\ tepn~•·n\t·d b) Barbala Pt~\tPr, Catlwttlll' :->m1th. C\latjorie CtainP, E. Le~it·Y Bt .. kl'l, Fll d C\L.tc:\l:J,t<'l. P.tt ;:-.;'at<h·lll. Jame.· Carey, Ilt·len Hl'wttl. L..rw ;:-.;'. \'anDcrmnrkPr. Hatl\ B . .Jon•·~. El~a :\1. Pratt, fl. ;-\Ltd;. and 11.<1 h- llt'npelt. I CHARLES' Formerl;r I EWS The Offi-c1al Union CoUege Barber 1 for the pa.st 24 years. Ask any ' upper cla.ssmen, they know. 11 I Oi>\rat~rs. Schenecta.dy's g-reat- N4t l>art>er. COR.. STATE .A.ND BROA.DW.A.Y Recently Electerl Ten·ace Councilmen Fox, McNab Are Among- Those Chosen Sc·veral lJl uminen t juniors on the cuntpu:; han: been <:ho:;en a:; heads of houses fur theit· val'ious fratern- itle\ for the cumin~; term. These ~electwns have been made in re- cent weeks . Alpha Delta Phi hu:; chosen Jame>< L. Loumi:;. He ·is a pitcher and outftelde1 un thr varsity base- ball team, al\Prnatlllt' between the mound and left ftL•lti with Guy Griswold. Lounus t,; ntanager elect of hockey and a member of the twwly elt>ctl'd Studt>n\ Council. Duncan :'.lc;:-.;'ab has been chosen a,; head of the Beta Theta Pi House for till' conung yra1 ::\.le;:-.;'ab ha:; been on the StudL·nt Council since his sophomore yPai and was tapped fot the• TPn ac·p Coun('il one week ago. He Is edltllt -mchief uf the 1!!35 t;arnet and pet forms with the \'fll sitv football and lacros~e teams. Chi- Ps1 has ehusm Clemens F. Hathaway as hrad of the house for the coming term. He is editor-in- C'hif:f of The Concordiensls and as- ~lotant manager of tennis. Re- c·Pntly Hathaawy wa, e!Pc!Pd to the Ha.Je Club DP!ta Phi h'\' chosen Robert L. Pul'<•hase who 1~ a member of the band and the instmmental club. He i,; also on the varsity lacrosse ~quad and i\ an a~soC\iate editor of the 1935 Garnet. C\laus \V. Steams ts the new head Bellinger Paint Co. ARTHUR TRIGG, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY of the Delta Upsilon House. In his sophomore year he won his le-tter fat· performance with the varsity swimming team and is at present assistant manager of track, Kappa Alpha elected Leslie Partridge as head of their house. He is mana- RPI'-elect of varsity basketball and bu:;iness manager of the 1935 Gar- net. In his fre~hman year Pa1 t- 1 idge was a member of the fresh- man football team. Lewis Theurer has been elected head of the Lambda Chi Alpha House, while Kappa Sigma has honored William Lester with a similar position. C. Richa:rd Davis has been honored by the Phi Delta Theta fi aternity. He is a member 0f the varsity football squad and served un the Junio·r Prom Committee. John :\lills vVittke is the new head of the Phi Gamma Delta House. Marcua Horwitz, president of the debating club is the head of the Phi Sigma Delta House for the coming term. Hugh R. Elwyn, member of the lacrosse squad and a delegate to the Model League of Nations as- ~embly and a member of the de-l bating team is the new head of the Phi Sigma Kappa House. i Austin B'ox. has been chosen as· head of the Psi Upsilon House. I !:<'ox was captain of the 1933 varsity I football team and has played on the hockey and tennis teams since then. He is beginning his second year as a member of the Student Council for which he was treasurer this past year. He was tapped for the Tenace Council a week ago. Robert Brcarton, manager of lacrosse, is the new head of the house at the Sigma Phi Place. He was an associate editor of the 1934 Garnet and has played hocl,ey since his freshman year. In his first year Brearton played with the freshman football team. At pres- ent he is a member of the athletic board. Theta Delta Chi and Theta Nu Epsilon have chosen Alton West and Loren L. Brandow, respective- ly as head of their houses. THE NEW DENTISTRY A Phase of Preventifl6 Medicirte College ~fen find in it unusual opportunities for a career THE Harvard University Dental School oilers a competent course of preparation fol' tb.e dental profession. A \Cuss A\ ScHOOL Writt! for catalogue Lei'W)' M. II, Miner, D.M.D., M.D .. IIMII Durt. 27,1 8& Longwood Avo .. Bostvn, Mue. Official Union College Photographer Portrait and Commercial Photographing The White Studio 215 STATE STREET l.':\HO:S COLLEGE REPRESENTA'l'IVE T. WHIPPLE-CHI PSI HOUSE .. :. ;·.;.:: /,:· CO-ED PUPPETEER of earning her education. She gives puppet shows for university fl·ater- Lola Lebow, a Univers-ity of Wis- conson co-ed, has found u new way nity and sorority groups. SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY. INC. 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK I §illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ ,= Hotel Van Curler = _ Recognized for Years as Headquarters _ for Union Students, Alumni, and Their Friends ANNOUNCE THEIR NEW TAP ROOM \\\\ Although New ... Already Popular = - ... Delicious Food and Refreshing Beverages ... At Moderate Prices = TRULY SCHENECTADY'S BEST ffili llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliffl ...... \ ~. ·: .-: ... ;::;.;:;:.;:;. ;.·.;., ... \'t' . . . .·:·:· . ·. ,• ..... : . ··: . ·•·. -·- ·,• ··:=·=:· ., •' .. -:~:=:=:~:-::;:::~---:=·~:;:;.. :::=:::::- .· ... :·.·,·.·: ····:···:-:-·:;.·.;:.•.;:;.::-: .. -:-:-: ···=·: · . .:.:;.;:·=~:-;:·;;._.;.: ;:::=.:-·· .,:• .. · . one W:Jiile';We ~te tidittg::;iii.ilop:g t>ttt herer· . -:; .·:::: .::: . .:.:- .. ··.;'•,•. •' . ···•·• ....... ;.::..-.:~:: .. :.:;:.:.:,; ...... ·.:=~-- .;!,;:,;:.,_;::~::;;',:;::.;:;::-·· ,.;:,:;.,.;:;:;·;:;.;:;.j::; •• -, •• :;: •• ,·:·:- .. ::;.;::.:i;i·:i.~·~=;-~-::·.; .·.- •. ;-;:;:.:; · ....• :.;:~~...:..:;:;.;·.·.·:·;.::•,•, .·.·.:.·.·.·.·:·::: ........ : ........... ;.;:;.·. ,· .. ·~· .• : •.• ··•··. . • ..·:-::. ·-·------ 1 Ath I I t I I I I I I I I Bo He1 A\\ Sys !...------- Vol. LVII 8tuti To r Total Am Reduce Tax L' Seven New Pro Aid P( By Changin! dent mone~ debating, Tax Comm A. Waldr• nounced to the studen will both dergraduat two dollar vidual stu• The sta1 and a con old apport on page t' The tol duced fn a reducti1 the activit priations r Departmer of all, $2 the Mount diensis, w four activi uid for th Ne Chief a. that of $\i of a Stude perimenta ed to perf• in co-ord the finan< clerical W• cular acti The tak the Stude: reason ~ many ot been redu rected by and a hs employed year. It VI caneral pr room of where th~ Seminar 1 Ra Anothet which wil Radio Cl1 quiring r was reo1 through other sh< deavoring era! ehes> by radio The ot tions am< used to : the Mode CQuncil ( The Tax students had mad, and wen lege well . The M raise of : zation to road trip en to Th the amo1 the pap€ Its six-co photogra In cut ment ap Committ bring int of the at (C Chine! '\Void 1 Dr. p, Phj:~ics ber of t1' cil of y, China. ' of the • stitutlon graduat< united ' of the 1 bodies o The \ miles 01 tate of princes America Dr. We 1910-14.

THE CONCORDIENSLS, FRIDAY, MAY 18, 19~4: Student Journalists 16 Fraternities Visit Concordiensis Chose New Heads of the Delta Upsilon House. In his sophomore year he won his le-tte:r for performance with the varsity swimming team and is at presett t assistant manager of track, Ka.ppa Alpha eleoted Leslie Partridge a.s head of their house, He is mana.- ger-elect of varsity basketball and business manager of the 1935 Gar-- net. In his freshman year Part- ridge was a member of the fresh- man fo~tball team. High School Editors Inspect Facilities of College Paper, See Staff at Work Recently Elected TeiTace Councilmen Fox:, MeN ab Are Among Those Chosen Several prominent juniors on the Lewis Theurer has been elected campus have been chosen as heads head of the Lambda Chi Alpha of houses for their various fratern-' House, while Kappa Sigma ha.s !ties for the coming term. These honored W11liam Lester with a selections have been made in re- similar position. cent weeks. C. Richard Davis has been then. He is beginning his second year as a member of the Student Council for which he was treasurer this past year. He was ta.pped for the Terrace Council a week ago. Robert Brearton, manager of lacrosse, is the new head of the house at the Sigma Phi Place. He was an associate editor of the 1934 Garnet and bas played hockey since his freshman year. In his first year Brearton played with the freshman football team. At pre!3- ent he is a member of the athletic board. Theta Delta Chi and Theta Nu Epsilon have chosen .Alton West and Loren L. Brandow, respective- ly as head of their houses. CO-ED PUPPETEER of earning ller education. She gives puppet shows for university frater- Lola Lebow, a University of Wis- conson co-ed, has found a new way nity and sorority groups. SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY, INC. 147 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY~ NEW YORK Coming to discuss common jour- nalistic problems with the members of the staff of the Concordiensis, Union College student publication, representatives of many high school and preparatory school newspapers visited the offices in Silliman hall yesterday and Wednesday after- noons. Alpha Delta Phi has chosen honored by th~ Phi Delta T:heta James L. Loomis. He is a pitcher fra.t~rnity. He 1s a member of tiLe and outfielder on the varsity base- varslty foot?all squad and _served ---~--------~--·1.11 ball team alternating between the on the Jumor Prom Co:mnuttee. mound a~d left field with Guy John Mills W~ttlte is the new Griswold. Loomis is manager elect bead of the Phi Gamma Delta Approximately 50 visitors were conducted on a tour through the offices by Clemens F. Ha:thaway and Donald B. :Moulton, editor-in- chief and managing editor, respec- tively. They were shown filst the physical facilities of the paper, in- cluding the files, the \morgue or files in which clippings of back is- sues of the publication are indexed and kept, the reporters' and copy desks, the files of papers exchanged with other colleges, and the other features, all of which have been patterned after those in use in the offices of daily newspapers. of hockey and a member of the House. newly elected Student Council Marcus Horwitz, president of tl:te Duncan McNab has been ch~sen debating club is the head of the THE NEW DENTISTRY as head of the Beta Theta Pi House Phi Sigma Delta House for the A Phase of Prq~enti!llf Medici•• for the coming year. McNab has coming term. been on the Student Council since Hugh R. Ellwyn, member of the College Men find in it unusual his sophomore year and was tapped lacrosse squad and a delegate to opportunities lor a career for the Terrace Council one week the Model League of Nations as- THB Harvard University Dental ago. He is editor-inchief of the sembly and a member of the de- School offers a competent course 1935 Garnet and performs with the bating team is the new head of the of preparation f~r the dental varsity football and lacrosse teams. Phi Sigma Kappa House. profession. Chi Psi has chesen Clemens F. Austin Fox has been chosen as A \CLAss A\ SCHOOL Hathaway as head of the house for head of the Psi Upsilon House. Members of the staff answered questions on headline writing, copy and proof reading, the gathering of news and the problems of the edit- ing and make-up departments of the paper. The business mana:ger answered queries on the financial problems of the sheet, on the gath- ering of advertisements and upon the making up of the advertising \dummy.\ the coming term. He is editor-'in- Fox was captain of the 1933 varsity Write for catalogut chief of The Concordtensis and as- football team and has played on ~~ 2 ~;.:; ~,\:l:;..,~·,t:'.:~;·a:1i!'n': l::f sistant manager of tennis. Re- ~~h~e~h~o~c~k~e~y~a~n~d~te~n~n~i~s;t~e~a~m~s~s~in~c~e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ cently Hathaawy was elected to the Hale Club. Delta Phi has chosen Robert L. Purchase who is a member of the band and the instrumental club. He is also on the varsity lacrosse squad and is an associate editor of the 1935 Garnet. Special exhibits have been placed on display of examples of Concordi- ensis issues for the last four yea;rs, including the \extras\ published upon the resignation of old and the selection of new presidents, from Dr. Richmond to Dr. Fox; the head- line chart of the paper, examples of makeup and adverttsing \dummies and a set of the photos, halftones, cuts and ma:ts used in t'1e printing of pictures for the paper. A poster containing a sample of the ques- tionnaire recently tssued to the stu- dent body on features and policies of the Concordtensis, and a graph of the results of the suvey were dis- played. The vis1t was arranged and ex- hibits prepared under the direction of Donald Moulton, the Managing Editor of The Concordiensis. Representatives from schools in Schenectady and Scotia: Mohawk Country Day School, Richard Day and W1lham NaVJn; Terrace Tri- bune, Nott Terrace High School, Robel t Guyon, Otto Dekow, Wanda Bugus, B1ll Robbins, Marlon Swue. Dorina RowP, Bette Croken, Frank- lyn Winchell, Ja;mes Spence, Donald MillPr, MHrjor1e Le1bel, Charlotte L1bmHn, Gladys Mudge and Eleanor Fnedman: Hi-T1mes, Scotia High School, Albert Birch, Mary Rasco, Benjamin Root, Nelson Doyle, Edith Gertsen and Sayla Colson. From the \Hilltopica publica- tion of the Fort Plain H1gh School, Fort Plain, N. Y., were: .M1lton Spencer, Richard Mellick, G. Wit- ham, Betty Park, Selma Cooper, Martha Bennett, Frank Bourman, Walter Rmkin, Robert MOYln, Richard Frantzman, Helen Free- bald, Elizabeth Smith, Clare Har- rington, Clara Smith, and 1. A. Phelps, M. D. \Echoes of Schuylerville High School,\ Schuylerville, N. Y., was represented by Barbara Potter, Catherine Smith, Marjorie Craine, E. Lesley Broker, Fred MacMaster. Pat Narde111, James Carey, Helen Hewitt, Lena N. VanDermarker, Harry B. Jones, Elsa M. Pratt, S. Slade, and Marie Henpelt. CHARLES' Formerl;r ED'S The Offida1 Union Colle~re Barber ror the past 24 years. Ask o.ny upper cla.semen, they know. 11 operators. Schenecta.dy's IP'eat- est barber. COR. STA.TE A.:ND BROADWA.\' ;•·····················; • • • • • • • • • • • • • • :If the me~rchan-: • • • • 5dise sold by the! • • • • iadvertisers in the!, • •I . ., 5C oncordiensi si' • • • • :cost more then: • • • • • • :you would have: • • • • • • :an excuse. : • • • • • • • • • • • • =······················~= Maus W. Stearns is the new head Bellinger Paint Co. ARTHUR TRIGG, P.rop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass Brushes and Wa.ll Paper 126 BROADWAY Official Union College Photographer Portrait and Commercial Photogr:aphing The White Studio 215 S'l'A.TE STREET UNION COLLEGE REPBESENTATIVE T. WHIPPLE-Om PSI HOUSE ~lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ if. 'Sa ~ -= HotelVanCurler: Recognized for Years as Headquarters E for Union Students, Alumni, and Their Friends = ~ = ANNOUNCE THEIR NEW = TAP ROOM = = i§ Although New ... Already Popular --~ .. .' Delicious Food and Refreshing _ Bever(lges .•. At Moderate Prices ;;;;;;; TRULY SCHENECTADY'S BEST = = = fmlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ ~---::: I ! Bo~ Rev I Aw: Sys1 I t ........... ~- Vol. LVII. 8tud To~ Total Amt Reduce1 Tax L(] Seven- New Pro' Aid Fo By l Changing dent money debating, t Tax Commi A. Waldro nounced toe the studen1 will both , dergraduatl two dollare vidual stud The stat and a com old apporti on page tV\ The tot duced fro a reductio the activiti priations ro Departmen of all, $2, the Mount! diensis, wE four activil aid for thE Ne1 Chief ar that of $7' of a Stude! perimental ed to perfo in co-ordi the financ clerical we cular act11 The tak, the Studer zeason VI many otl been redu< rected by and a ha employed year. It w caneral pa room of where the Seminar r R3l Another which wil Radio Clu quiring n was rear through other sho deavoring era! chess by radio The ot' tions amo used to s the Model Counc1l o The Tax students had made and were lege well. The M raise of $ zation to road trip: en to The the amou the pape its six-col photogra] In cut1 ment ap CommittE bring int• of the at (0 Chi neE Wold ( Dr. PE Physics I ber of th cil of Ye China. 1 of the o stitutiom graduate united e of the r bodies OJ The u miles ou tate of 1 princes America Dr. Wo 1910-14.

