be has But { I. I ,. Second Issue Of idol To A:ppear On Campus About Feb. 15 • StS ~·----· d • Mountebanks Display \Hairy Ape\ Sketches In Library Vol. LVII., No. 31 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS Cu:r,rentDepression 1 --------,·.Dr. Doty Sugog.ests s. chwebelandS~ith M·o·un. t. eban· ks Pl' a· ce 'Hat.·ry Characterized B;l CALENDAR SeveralAdditmns To Represent Union .. , . . . • Production Decline TomOI'I·ow To New Union Plan Against Syracuse Ape Sketches On Display Important Part of Recovery ·Is Restoration of Capital G()ods Industries to Normal Level Securities Act Is Blamed Daily Assembly-Speaker, Dr. George D. Kellogg. Swimming-l.Jnion vs. Frank- lin and Marshall at Schenectady. Hockey-Union vs. Colgate at .Schenectady. Sunday tT:,.;e of Preceptorial System Would Provide for Students Who Show :Marked Abilities Plan of Great Advantage -----------------------------~ Advisability of Making NRA Actors 'ViU Double Up Principles Permanent to Be . In Eugene O'N eiU Play The Topic of Fifth Debate A cast of twenty-seven will play No Decision Contest Markman's ?encil Designs Are Painted in Water-colors by Dora Abrahams Local Artist Impressionism Stressed Thought Cause ·Of Failu1·e of Capital Market to Revive Sunday Service-:-President Ed- , · gar Park, Wheaton College, Nor- ton, Mass., Memoria Chapel, 11 A.M. Social Studies to Be Placed Forensic Encounter to Take the forty-five roles in Eugene O'Neill's \The Hairy Ape,\ accord- ing to the announcement today by Director Edward L. Carroll. Ten men will play two parts, and four will appear in three different char- acterizations. There will also be Actors to Study Paintings to Understand O'Neill Mood Organ Redtal-Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel, 4:00 P.M. In Proper ,Rei at ion ships Place at SrTacuse Friday By HENJ;tY W. TULLOCH Monday Editor's Note: 'I\ne following is Noon Luncheon-~Schenectady one of a series cif letters by The present business depression Alumni Association. of Union members of the Faculty con- has 'been characterized by a tremen- College, Silliman Hall. cerning tb.e new llnion Plan of dou.s decline in the production of Education which will go into capital goods. And this must neces- Tuesday effect in September. The letters were written to Dr. Ellery who sarily be the case. As purchasing Registration--Payment of Tu- . b.as given The .Concordiensis power declines, the part of the in- ition, freshman and sophomores, permission to reprint them, d t · 1 t h t 1 h d b Bursar's Office; Administration us na outpu t a s pure ase Y Building. I have received your letter in the industries themselves, such a.s Daily Assembly-Speaker, Rev. which you request :my opmwn con- machinery and tools, construction T. M. Mutch, pastor First Pres- cerning the Union College Plan. It materials, and transportation equip- byterian Church. gives me the greatest pleasure to set ment, necessarily falls off. A most down a few idea.s 'COncerning this important part of any recovery pro-' plan. gram must be the restoration of the Freshmen Write In From the point of view of a capital goods industries to a level teacher of History, the plan as out- approaching normal. This fact be- New Iss·ue of Idol·, lined and developed is of the greatest comes evident when we realize that 1 value, since it tends to place the these industries comprise about one- different social studies in their half of the business of the country --- proper relationship and it is the first Among the requirements neces- Smith, 'l'ripp, \Vassmansdorf, important step in the problem of in- s·ary for the revival of the capital tegration. These facts will improve goods industries are confidence in Sullivan Also Contribute to the point of view o·f the teacher by the future and a reasonable cer- Issue to Be On Campus Soon giving him a broader outlook and by tainty of profits, and the reestablish- giving him constantly the opportun- ment of the capital market in which ity of viewing tb.e relationship be- borrowers and lenders will have con- tween his own particular field and fidence and in which the flotation of The second issue of the Idol ~or c.ther related fields, These facts will corporate securities will be possible.: the current school year will appear also be of service to the students, The first of .the requirements has· on the campus about February 15, since they will help them, for the been rendered a serious blow by the d't · first time perhaps, to understand uncertainty of the administration's' Paul Wassmansdorf, the· e 1 or-m- how closely one social study depends monetary policy. The Securities Act chief, announced yesterday. It will upon the rest. has been blamed by many for the. be made up as usual of short stories, f 'I f th 't 1 a l•et t e History a Social Studies Background a1 ure o e cap! a m r' 0 r -. essays, poems and book reviews. vive. 1 . ,~ 4 h 'tt There is another i:rnportant advan- Part of New Deal Leoislation John Sul1van, o , as wn en a b .,. , tage of the plan. It cannot e de- The Secu1ities Act was written. story about a fraternity dance. Gil- nied, I believe, that the study of his- into law on July 27, 1933 as part of • bert Tuck's, '34, contribution is a lory is the proper background for the New Deal legislation. The Act fancy-free tale of two young people the understanding and appreciation was perhaps inevitable, for it has, who get out of all the difficulties of all the social stu.dies. There are been recognized for some time that always a few students who desire to federal regulation of security issues, into which only two youn!< people do their major work in history, but was vitally necessary and politically can get. , for most students history forllll5 the expedient. The states are not in a An essay by Reed Tripp, '34 on foundation upon which they will position to handle effectively the na- the whys and hows and whereabouts, build the superstructure of their in- tiona! security issues, and the so- of modern labor problems, and an terest in other fields, Our plan, it called \Blue Sky Laws\ which states nrticle by Leslie Long '34 on thP. seems to me, places history in that had enaeted proved it. The obvious. problems of the college of today are fundamental relationship to the purpose of the Act was to make pub- discussions of the difficulties which other social studies and enables us, lie those facts which will give the in- beset the nation at the moment, in the Department of History, to be- vestor a fair idea of the risk he is while Wassmansdorf's essay on the come in a vital way the servants of running in purchasing a particular virtues of society brings up an eter- all. Incidentally, there may come to secmity. And that purpose is indeed nal question once more. your mind as it has to mine that noble. However, tb.e Act is so dras- great and true state:rnent in which tic that the capital market has come Two freshmen, Ferdinand Helm those who desire to become first almost to a standstill. This fact be- and John Davis, bring the first con-, among men are enjoined to become comes evident from the statistics of tributions of the 1937 class to the the servants of all. new financing. magazine. Helm has written several I am particularly struck with the In the four months between July shokrt skletchesD, inl a.ddithion to two admirable flexibility of certain parts 27 and the end of November not a t.foo rev ews. av s JS t e composer of our plan, and I a:m thinking par- Ringle Impm tant high-grade issue 0 two poems. ticularly of the dif.Ferent ways in was offered to the public. The total The Idol Talk column, an innova- which a student may major in a of coiporate securities placed on the tion In this year's issues of the Idol, d·ivision. This adds strength. since it market in October, according to will be done for the second time by will enable us to meet the needs of \The Commercial and Financial Robert H. Smith, who will also write many ·different kinds of students. Chronicle,\ was only $3,109,204, the the editorials. The major in topics, if carefully smallest monthly total recorded Sullivan, Tuck, Long and Smith worked qut, will probCl.bly prove to since this financial magazine began· are members of the editorial board, be one of the greatest advantages its record in 1919. During the ten r>.nd have contributed to the Idol be- which will be realized. Mr. Wainger month.s of the year ended October 31, fore. In the last issue Sullivan is to be thanked for contributing the the volume of new capital issues wrote a short story entitled the original ideas along this line. totaled $569,000,000, exclusive of· \Rocking Chair,\ and Long dis- OthPr Advii:Jitages United States government offerings· cussed peace and disarmament in an and refunding issues, which is only I essay called \Rise of the Vanquish- There are several other advan- a little more than half the sum in ed.\ Smith's Idol Talk column con- tages I might mention had they not the same period of 1932. Of this tains brief accounts of interesting been so well expressed already: for amount, approximately 65 per cent happenings on the campus and in example, in your ~plendid and well were municipal offerings. By con- the vicinity of Scheneetady. Reviews received statement at the buffet trast, it is important to note the of movies, plays and books, and luncheon. These include certain de- London capital market. New capital news from other campuses· find tails of the Plan, the economy. of (Continued on Page 4) space in the column. effort and money we shall realize, John Taylor, Union'sFirstProfessor Crossed Delaware With Washington By ALBERT H. STEVENSON The first Union College professor was John Taylor, a descendant of the illustrious Richard Taylor, who was at one time a member of the English Parliament. Ti3-ylor carne to Schenec.tady in 1793 to take charge o-f the Schenectady Acad- emy, which two years later by an act of the state legislature, became Union College. Taylor was ap- pointed Professor of Mathematics and Natural Science as well as Senior T1:1tor, with a salary of $635 a year, and acted as president un- til the arrival of Rev. John B Smith, the first Pl>esident of Union College. In the first year, Professor Taylor taught the entire student body which consisted of onJy nine- teen men. The following year he was appointed Librarian o.f the col- lege, a position which he heid until he died in 1801, from an attack of yellow fever. John Taylor was born in P!'ince- ton, N. J., in 1751. He received his elementary education in local schools and then attended Prince- ton University, graduating in the class of 1770 at the age of 19 years. Following his graduation Taylo·r became a professor at Queen's Col- lege, now Rutgers, where he taught Mathematics until the outbreak of the Revolution in 1776. He joined the Continental army under Wash- ington and soon rose from a Cap- ta:in to a Colonel, commanding troops in ihe battles of Trenton and Monmouth. He was a member of the army that made the historic crossing of the Deleware River in the dead of winter, and was highly praised for his good generalship in this campaign. Ten years after peace was declared Taji:lor aceepted the posi.tioli. .at the head of the Schenectady Academy. the question of en trance require- ments and tb.e like. Since you have been so kind as to ask my opinion I arn sure you will not object if I go one step farther (Continued on Page 4) Socialism and Individualism Can Be Reconciled, Says Ellery \In order to be a .socialist and ~till be an individualist one must heed the words of Jesus, 'Love your neighbor as yourself',\ said Acting President Dean Edward Ellery ih daily assembly Wednesday. He added that it would be a sim- ple matter for college professors to solve everyday problems, but prob- ably the. s<:>iution would not be satis- factory for everyone_ It is not a question of being all extreme social- ist but of finding so:me happy med- ium between the two. Dr. Ellery pointed out that :Moses was an in- dividualist but was also the great- est socialist in all history. When Jesus was preaching to his followers and said \Love your neighbor as yourself,\ he was .quoting .from the teachings of Moses, ::.even men who will understudy the The varsity debating team will various roles. The sketches for the settings the 11ountebanks will use in their pro- duction of Eugene O'Neill's \The Hairy Ape\ on March 9 and 10, were placed on exhibit in the Li- brary yesterday. Tb.is is the first time that sketches for a Mounte- banks production have been accord- ed such an honor, but their charac- ter is such that Mr. James Brew- ster, librarian, has arranged the showing that more students will have the opportunity to see them. renew activities next Friday when, The doubling up is chiefly due to represented by Milto~ Schwebel, '34, the necessity of having small casts for both the Mountebanks stage and and Robert H. Smith, '34, it will to make road trips financially possi- travel to Syracuse University to. ble. Mr. Milton M. Enzer, graduate meet the girl's team of that institu- manager, is attempting to schedule a tion. Schwebel and Smith will up- road tour in the Capitol District to take place after the performance on hold the affirmative of the topic, March 9 and 10. Resolved: \That the Principles of The final cast was chosen from the NRA Should Be Adopted as Per- fifty-seven candidates who had been manent Features of American Gov- chosen in the tryouts. ernment Policy.\ The debate will be The complete list of the characters a no-decision encounter. and those who will portray them Bowdoin Debate follows: The sixth debate of the present Yank ....... Sidney D. Markman' '34 season will take place on February Paddy .......... 1\braham Smith, '34 Tb.e desrgns for the seven slwtches were drawn in pencil by Sidney D. Markman '34, and paint- ed in water-colors by Dora Abra- hams, an ar:tist living in this city. Markman has been faithful to O'Neill's wish for impressionism in his designs and Miss Abrahams has given the sketches vitality with her coloring. 13, when Smith and Francis Town- Long .... George W. Stroebel, Jr., '35 ley, '37, will uphold the affirmative Mildred .... Ferdinand Helm, Jr., '37 of the topic, Resolved: \That the Aunt ............ S. Ralph Cohen, '37 Powers of the President of the ·Guard ........ Robert B. Russell, '37 United States Should Be Substan- Secretary ...... Milton A. Berger, '35 tially Increased as a Settled Policy,\ Policeman .. Derrick A. Sherman, '36 against Bowdoin College of Bruns- Stokers: <Swede) Arthur J. Firth, wick, Maine. The debate will take Jr., '36; (Italian) Arthur Greenburg, place in the Hotel Van Curler before '36; <French) Charles L. Reid, Jr., &. combined audience of the Schenec- '36; <Dutch) William Miesse, '37; tady Business and Professional <Cockney) William K. Boyd, '37; Women's Club, the General Electric <Irish) John P. Rooney, Jr., '37; Women's Club, and the Zonta Club. (German) R. B. Russell; (Norwe- The next radio debate, broadcast gian) George W. Kremzier, '35; by WGY, will take place on the fol- (American) Peter D. Walker, '37; lowing night, February 16, against <Western) F. Dean Roylance, Jr., Hobart College on the topic, Re- '34. solved: \That the United States Ladies-Thomas Ordway, '34; F. Navy Should Be Increased to Treaty Helm, Jr.; Robert J. McManus, '36; Strength.\ Union will uphold the Roger D. Sherman, '36. In announcing the acceptance of Markman's settings, Mr. Edward L. Carroll, director of the Mounte- banks, declared that the actors, stage-carpenters, and stage electri- cians would study these painted de- signs in order to understand the effect which O'Neill wished to create and to which their respective work must contribute. The carpen- ters will make their sketches of the platforms, and the electricians will design their light-plots from these paintings. ! ffirmative. The Garnet's represen- Gentlemen---s. R. Cohen; Carlton tatives for this encounter have not Garrison, '37; John B. Dowling, Jr., as yet been selected. '37; George P. Haskell, '37. The Mountebanks settings are on display on the special exhibition boards on the east side of the li- brary on ·the first floor and may be examined at any time during the regular library hours. • ~- Policemen-A. J. Firth, Jr.; D. A. El:nura Deba~ Postponed Sherman; R. B. Russell; F. D. Roy- It has been announced by Smith, lance, Jr.; Chester A. Nessel, '37. Manager of Debate, that the debate Prisoners-Charles H. Reeves, '37; against Elmira College, originally A. J. Firth, Jr.; P. D. Walker; A. scheduled for Thur.sday at Elmira Greenburg; J. P. Rooney, Jr.; F. D. has been postponed indefinitely, due Roylance, Jr.; G. W. Kremzier. ------0------ to a conflict of dates. There is a I. W. W. Members-C. Garrison; possibility that the debate may take C. H. Reeves; C. Nessel; J. P. place at Elmira on March 22. Rooney, Jr.; W. Miesse. \Seeds of Genius Ripen In Youth,\ Says D1·. Berg The Philomathean Society, official Gorilla-John E. Finch, '35. debating organization of the college, will hold a pmctice debate Monday night in the Old Chapel at 7:30 o'clock in preparation for the Bow- doin encounter. Townley and Smith will uphold the affirmative of. the presidential power question against Jerome Cohen, '36, and Carl E. Ol- son, '3S. Dr. Parks, Wheaton College President, To Speak Sunday Dr. J. Edgar Park, who has been for more than seven years president of Wheatou.. Colleg\! Norton, Ma.ss., will speak at the chapel services on Sunday, February 4o, at 11:00 o'clock in the Memorial Chapel, Schenec- tady. Wheaton college is one of the old- est colleges for women in the United States. It was founded by Mary Lyon, and is situa~ed in part of the original grant of land to the Pilgrim fathers. Dr. Park was born in Ireland and came to this country to do postgrad- l!ate work at Princeton University. He has also studied at the Univer- sity of Edinburgh, the Royal Univer- sity of Ireland in Dublin, Leipsig University, and Oxford University. He was for some time a member of the faculty of Boston University. Under his administration the beau- tiful new church was built at West Newton, Mass., where he was min- ister for nearly twenty years. President Park is the author of a large number of volumes, all but one of which has achieved the distinction of being sold out. It is during one's youth. that the March to Discuss Evolution seeds of genius ripen, said Dean Ernst J. Berg in his Tuesday morn- Of Religion at Second Forum ing cb.1pel talk. A ma1i's greatness, he pointed out, is usually brought The second in a series of five for- out before the age of twenty-five. In the last ten years the majority ums under the auspices of the Union of the Nobel prize winners have College Christian Association will be been men about twenty or thirty conducted Wednesday evening in the years old. Old Chapel. The speaker will be The exemplification of the early Professor John L. March of the Psy- rising of greatness in composers chology Department who will speak prompts one to marvel at their ex- on \The Evolution of Religion.\ The treme youth. Mozart completed his lecture is schecjuled to begin at 8:00 fii·st composi'bion at four; Handel o'clock. th About three hundred students at e age of twelve played the or- gan in public; and many such manifested their desire for such a artists as Bach, Beethoven, and forum when the questionnaire was Purcell started exhibiting their tal- circulated in Daily Assembly about ents at an equally juven'ile age. a month ago. The series of forums In conclusion Dr. Berg gave an was opened by Professor Charles N. account of the life of that pathetic Waldron. The other three forums French mathematical wizard, Evar- will be conducted by Professor Peter iste Galois. This prodigy graduate('~ I. Wold, Dr. Ernest Ligon and Dr. from college at the .early age of Edward Ellery, fourteen and became a recognized 0 mathematician before twenty. B:is SENIOR NOTICE death in 1832 was tragic in that his genius went unnoticed by the The senior cia;;:; will meet Mon-~ Fr.ench Academy and that genius day at daily assembly period in the which promised so much was so Old Chapel. short lived. Students Pay $32,000TaxAnnually; Athletics Gets Most, Garnet Is Next Based on an average enrollment of 800 students who pay the annual Student Activities Tax, the undergraduates contribute a total of $32,000 for the support of athletics, the four: publications, the Musical Clubs, the Band, the Mountebanks theater, Debabng, and the Student Council. Athletics re- ceiv~ ne.arly two-thirds of the. entire tax, or $20,000; of t~e $7,200 given the ,----------------; . publicatiOns, the Garnet rece1ves, $3,200, the Concordiens1s $2,400; the Idol, the Band, and the Mountebanks each receive $1;200; The Musical Clubs re ceive $1,600. The complete statistics on the tax follows: · TUITION NOTICE Tuition for the second semester will be $175, with student fees in addition amounting to $20. Pay- ment is due for freshmen and sophomores Tuesday and Wed- nesday, February 6 and 7, and for junior1:1 and aenio.rs on Thursday and Friday, February 8 and 9. Students are requested to bring the coupons given out. Athletic tickets will be issued at the Gym- nasium on presentation of the re- ceipted term bill. Students are requested to fill in the coupons before coming to the Administra· tion Building. Percentage 'fer Semester Per Year Activity of Total Tax Per Student Per Student *Athletics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62.5 $12 50 $25.00 Garnet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.0 2.00 4.00 Concordiensis . . . . . . . . . . 7.5 1.50 3,00 Musical Clubs ........ , . 5.0 1.00 2.00 Band . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.75 0.75 1.50 Idol . .. . .. . .. . . . .. . .. . . . 3.75 0.75 1.50 Mountebanks . , . . . . . . . . . 3.75 0.75 1.50 Oebating ............. , . 1.25 0.25 0.50 Handbook ........ , . . . . . 1.25 0.25 0.50 Student Council . . . . . . . . l.Z5 0.25 0.50 TOTALS ........... 100.00 $20.00 $40.00 TolaiRec'd Annually $20.000.00 3,200.00 2,400.00 1,600.00 1,200;00 1,200.00 1,200.00 400.00 400.00 400.00 $32,000.00 *The Athletic tax does not include first semester freshman fee for gym equipment.

Two ~irnsiS \.d Cauaa Persa Parula Assai\ FouNDED 1876 ~ssodated @oll~~iat.- tjl'tG~ --= 19JJ ~~~~ 19J4 5'-- THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1934 a.nother way of attaeldng the problem: may write a letter to The Concordiensis, thus attact attention of the students. o.ne and RANDOM OBSERV ATlONS By Sidney David Markman MUSJC by ·· Rankir:te Hinmon I IJ;====~~ The new tax committee should be set up as· soon as possible, and when it is organized, the student may take advantage 0f its hem·in!rs ~ In 1822 a humble, ·poverty-str.icken and air his opinions before the body which A few weeks ago the Editol'ia1 plan can alter that course. How- Viennese composer, dis.~;egarded by will have the final] word in the spend in!! of his Board of the Concordiensis com-. ever, if the aim of the plan is to the wmld,. bitterly discomfited by the \ mitted itself to a permanent editor- expose youth to what is generally refusal of a Vienna musical society money. ial policy. Among the aims of the ter·med cu.Jture, that is indeed laud- to admit him to membership, sought ·board, the total aim or goa•! being: able. If the object of the plan is a escape in the realm of harmony and Since there a1·e these means of altering the the betterment of Union College, hope that something will sink in, melody, a realm of dreams far more The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Px·ess, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y ., Telephone 4-4141 · t\ f th · · . . was the pi oposal to get rid of all fine. At least such an aim is not r·eal than the world about him. . appropna 10l1S or e VariOUS acbVJtles, 110 DEAD WOOD from the Union Col- altogether so cocksme. But ho\\ Transmuting· ti·agedy into a rapture · one should feel i;hat the tax is an imposition lege faculty. . can this plan be carried out, grant·. of beauty, this squat little spectacled Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mall Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United Statea. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Addre&J all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communicatioll8 to Geo1·ge R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon Hou.se, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .•.......•..•. Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg ...•..••.. Business Manager C. Wlll!am Huntley ...•....... Managing Editor Robert H. Smith .................. News Editor · WHAT IS DEAD WOOD? . ing even that you will advance, 1.1 nan, so shy and awkward, created about which he can say Ol' do nothing. Sh·all we fr'rst gr've a defl·n.r·t·J'on the men to ca11y out the plan are ~me of the loveliest and most touch- ~ . dead wood? rng expressions in all music, a dia- A MEASURE OF EDUCATION The approach of the second lecture in the set·ies offered by the Y -Cabinet again calls to mind the fact that the Union student body evidences almost no interest in the lectm·es and recitals which take plaee on the campus. If the student attendance at these functiens were to be taken as an indication of the intel- . of Dead. W?od? Dead Wood is. How many members of our fac- phanous outpouring ofmelodywhich wood \:hlCh ·IS ~otal!ye. But what ulty have the zeal and good will he was never to hear· save in his does t~1s ~ell us. U g1ves a greater to bring a message to youth? HoV<. own mind, a fragmentary symphony myste1y m place ?! a lesstJr one.: many of them feel that here is a which another generation was to W~ know. even .less now than. b~- life of good as opposed to evil foi place beside Beethoven's Fifth, for e. For after all what does 1t them to follow- the education 01 Brahms' First, Tchaikovslry's \Pa- ~ean to b~ ali.ve? . ~o be live wood the youth? For a great many 01 thetique,\ the Cesar Franck Sym- JS t~ b.e drffer ent f1 om dead _wood, them, teaching is an easy way t< phony. yet rt IS to be wood at any ~ate. , earn a iving. Surely it is an eas~ Schubert Program Stm<lay I per:;onally ca~ spea~ wrth !Ln .Jife if a.Jl that is souoht is money Sunday afternoon Dr·. Tr'dmat·sh open mmd and With no fear of m- h · · · · '? veighin.g the emnity of my instruc- Elsew ete rt rs chfficult to earn will play this \Unfinished\ Sym- tors. The courses which I am pur- money, because out :here everyon< phony in a program of Schubert suing at present are so dead, that· l:a:> th~ sa.m.e pmpose and compe music. Quite as beautiful and fum- even if the instructors were as dead titiOn ls strange~. But te~chm! iliar as the Symphony are the \Ave as wood can ever be, which I am offers no. economic competltwn,, 01 Maria,\ S\erenade \Thou Art Like a thankful to say they are not, they, ta least It ~haul? not. Te.ach;n!. Rose,\ and ''Who Is Sylvia\ which my instructors would be alive by should be a hfe of mor~~ obhgatron · are on the program. Mrs. Eva Na.ff- comparison. and ffiOIS;l mge?, of lookmg farthei ziger, contralto, of Albany will a.ssist Arnold J. Friedman ...•.......... Sporttl .lflditor Prince E. Oleson .•.•..•......... Feature Editor Morton C. Stewart. ....... Circulation Manager • lectual level of the college, Union would then have much to be desired. Before we search (}Ut the dead that the rm~ediate and not on thl with a group of songs, the distinCtive wood arnon~ the faculty, might we pork chop ng~t under the nose. , element of this most poetic of com- not loolc also for dead wood among T~e educatiOn of ~h~ yo.ung H posers. Mrs. Naffziger will sing the students? It is my firm con- 11: 8 . 1 mpOI~ant as a~mrmster.mg re- \Thou Art Like a Rose,\ \Who Is viction that we shall find a vel'ita- hgwn. 1 he two aim a~ drfferent Sylvia,\ and \Hedge Roses.\ Other ble fm est of rotting logs here a.t · p_urp~ses, but the .c:;u:rymg out o! numbers which Dr. Tidmarsh will Union. Not a splinter fl'om the elthel of th~se acttvttres should b< play include the popular \Marche dead wood of the facuit'r, granting·, a. ttended wrth th~ same. breadth MTt . \ \B th JUNIOR BOARD C. Hathaway J. Woolman M. Berger D . .Moulton =-=~=------:--::- --- . - ·---c...=..:....:C.-'-'..-'-- SOPHOMORE HOARD J. Andezson V. Gilbert R. Nozth ------- C. Reid,, Jr. A. H. Stevenoon Issue Editor .......... :\lilton A. Berger FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1034 NEW TAX COI\IMITTI<~E AND YOUR $40 The chart showing the distribution of the $40 student tax for each year is well wot·th study by a:ll unde1·grad ua tes, es.pecially in view of the fact that the Student Dody has just passed a motion setting· up a permanent tax committee v·:hich will have the power of reducing or increasing the amount received by each activity. It is appm·ent that such a committee will necessarily assume great im- pol\tance in u::;ing· it::; authority of spending the students' money. In studying the chart, one's first thoug·ht will pl'Obably be that the tax is too high,- that $32,000 is too much to spend for student activities. Dut more rational thinking v.·m show that activities must have their plaee on the campus if the college is to exist as a social community of about 1,000 inhabitants. One then asks the question, not are we s.pending too much, but 1·ather, m·e we get- ting full value for what we do spend? The undergraduate should consider each organization individually, ask how much each benefits the college, how much each is worth to him, and how the value of each compat·es with that of other org·anizations, Are the musical clulJs, for inst.·u1ce. worth $1,600 a rea.1· to the colleg-e and to the stud<>nt body? Are the 1\Iountehc'l.nks giving full value for the $1,200 they receive fmm the tax fund? Do the band and The Idol deserve to receive as much as the Mountebanks? An examin- ation such as thu.t will certainly arouse opin- ions conflicting with th.e present disburse- ment of the students' $32,000. Instead of d1·opping the matter after the inquisition, the student shoulct get into action. Sinee it is his money that is being spent, he has the right (althoug·h seldom used) to voice his opinion as to how much he should be taxed and where it should be allocated. The quality of the lectures and recitals cannot be offet eel as an excuse for the lack of interest by the Student Body. Many of the men \Vho have come to Union to speak in the last few yems have been national leaders in their fields and the snme can be said for the musicians who have performed here. fir·st that it is wood eve~· scratches. and depth of feeling for what i~ ;n~~t~~sical.:r, e Sea,\ and \Mo- even the topmost l~yer of skin on ught and what Is wrong. The \Unfinished\ Symphony was th.e wooden heads of the average What Price Ph. D. nearly lost to the world. For thilty- Union College student. Th h ere are many men on t e fac .::'even years after the composer's Are Students Wood? ulty who are dead wood by virtu< death it lay among a large number AI h;totle once gave a definition of being inadequately prepared m of manuscripts in the possession of of matter. Matte1· is something just lazy. When I was younger 1 his childhood friend, Anselm Hutten- that is capable of c·hange, I will would feel rather honored when l brenner; the conductor Anton Her- now give a definJti(}n of a student. found a book in the library forrr beck is responsible for its discovery. A student is someone who is capa- which the instructor had been tak Why Schubert failed to complete ble of being educated. The powers ing his lectmes. It elated my van· more than two movements is an- that be here at Union. assume tha,t ity to think that I was good enough known; it is possible that the re- all who enroll a.t Union are capa- to unde1 stand what my dea1 mainder of the Symphony has been ble of being educated_ They pro- teacher understood. I find now lost. The lecture \vvhich Dr. l\Iarch will give next week on \The Evolution of Religion\ should be of definite interest to anyone who pt·ides himself on having any intellectual curiosity whatever. duce for the mystification of the that I am slightly older, that I s. chubert's music was the insptr- wolld l ·n genet·al and theradt'o audi have no use for such untruthfulnes~ t f , - ~ ron or . the American operetta, This condition of lack of interest in lec- tures and music cannot be said to be uni- versal; fot· at rnany of the universities, par- ticularly the larger ones, attending such events is a definite part of the undergraduate life. ence in pax·ticular· a Union Plan for that is a mHd kind of plagarism Blossom-trme,\ which was broad- the Intellt'Ctual Advancement of It rather sickens me to find the cast in an abridged version on la.st Youth, and in the same breath ut- insttuctor glibly peeling off lect week's \Showboat Hour.\ The open- ter a Pl ·ayer· expr·ess'ng the ho e ure after lecture hom matel'ial · 1 P ing subject of the \Unfinished\ Sym- that youth will advance. which is not his own. To that the phony is found at the outset of the Of all the people who come to answer might come saying that it Operetta while the well-known \You Union for the obvious purpos.e is the instructor's job to get the Are My Song of Love\ is a var·r·atr'on W ich the faculty sets forth the e matelial out of books for the stu- . · , · r of the major theme in the Sym- are two kinds. All college men dents. Well I would rather get phony's First Movement. fall into two .categories: Those who half of a quarter as much by my- are capable of being educated, ad- self than let the instructor get it Apparently Union students have two re- vance; and those who are incapable all for me. It is a.bout time that of being educated. For the former, I learned to read. actions to the lectures and musical events college is indeed a blessing of which Altogther to many men get theh h . h · h E' they are most worthy; and as for master's and doctor's degrees for \\' IC are g·1 ven ere. Ither they are apa- the latter, they could stay at Un- making surveys of sandboxes iP thetic and refu~e to expose themselves to ion for the rest of their lives and the playgrounds of the grade even get a post on the board of schools in the twenty-sixth ward anything requiring mental effort, or else they trustees, but never once would their in Kings County in the State ol feel that attendance at these functions shows ~~:~~~Yf!:f! d~~~~·~pt~l;;~~t ~~~ ~e~qt~Sr~ort~u~fr:~~ol~~sgf:r~~~ th . f 1 1 f 1\ d · and the makers of the Union Plan given each year to men all over thE some mg 0 a ac C 0 man mess an IS an for the Intellectual Advancement country. H might be a good idea approach to the \grind.\ of Youth call WISDOM. Those who in the future to ask along with a are 1·ea!ly capable of being educated man's other credentials all hi~· As long as Union men refuse to attend the do not need the college or plans of graduat.e pape1s, theses and publi- . . any sort. In all likelihood they cations before he even be consider- special programs which are presented het·e, will be cultured individuals of their ed for a job at Union. thev ma\' J·ustlv be criticized as failino- to. own making witi;IO~t the help of • • • e:o any plans for the'lr mtellectual ad- acquire anything but a superficial education. vancement, whose fame they have heard broadcast over the whole country. Lamentable as it may sound, it is nevertheless true, those who are incapable of being educa- ted may be exposed to a million SOMETHING TO RESTORE Fraternities at Union are missing one of the greatest advantages college life offers by neglecting to maintain the former friendly spirit existing· lJetween groups, when mem- bet·s were frequently invited for dinner at each other's houses. Why this policy should be reestablished may be shown for some very obvious reasons. plans for their intellectual advance- ment, yet when taken in and away from the health-giving exposure, they will still be in as an uncivil- ized a state as when they stared for the first in to the brilliance which shines so resplendently from the countenances of the malters of the Union Plan for the Intellectual Advancemt»nt of Youth. What is the good of a beautiful system if you have nothing to be systematic with? It is to be inefficiently ef- ficient! Plans for Neglected Youth Can it be then that the Union Plan for the intellectual Advance- ment of Youth has a purpose which is based on a pallid assumption? Is its purpose solely the advance of an inadvance-able youth? Youth will or will not advance, and no The most outstanding reason for cal'l'ying on such a social progTam is the development of a better spirit of friendship between the houses, a friendship that overlooks petty disagreements in opinion but recognizes the I higher goa:ls that each fraternity is striving .1 EASY ON THE EYES I for. A less apparent, yet equally important, reason is the broadening effect produced by g-etting away from one's habitual course of action. Often, unconsciously, students fall into a deep rut, are immersed in their prob- lems, and then become oblivious of what's going on outside of their own narrow life. Having a visitor at a meal, or visiting· at some other house is a quick method of getting out of this kind of a rut. Com•sj>S in S!alesmanshlp Then there are a lot of men who are dead wood but who have brain!' enough to disguise the fact. They assume the attitude of army ddll sergeants. In this way they build up reputations for being \guys on whom ye can't put nothln' over\. The simpleton of a student doe<' not realize that the instructor· i!' putting something over on him. And then there is another kind of disguise, that of the \personality kid-plus\ the boy who opens each lecture with a smile on his lips and a prayer in his heart. He is the one who calls all the nthletPf'< ancl campus office holders by their first names. Soon he acquires the rep- utation of being a scholar and really a fine teacher. He is the type who seems to forget that stu- dent activities are for students ony. The only activity of a student is learning, the only activity of a teacher is teaching. Let us get rid of the dead wood among the stu- dent body as well as among the faculty. ltept loolting back to the title page to see if the name there was really Eugene O'Neill. With Sinclair Lewis laudi~g country hotels, Philip Barry dashing back to the arms of Rom~. and, Eugene, O'Neill going Tarkmgton m full VIew of the audi- ence, we expect momentarily to hear that G. K. Chesterton has turned Communist and Bernard Shaw has joined the Jesuits 000 Edwin Franko Goldman, \noted band leader, says: \Our jails are not full of those who learned to pl!l-Y musical instruments.\ But Will memb&rship in the College Band, ~n. that basis, lteep anybody out of Jall? II Week's Best Editorials I SAFE FOR DEMOCRACY Twenty years ago war broke out in Europe. One of its major causes was the meteoric 1 ise to power in wol'ld affairs of the German Reich and the jealousy of FratH'e and England engendered by this ad- vance. In the German state the balance of power lay w.ith a mili- taristic faction. This wild gr·oup led the nation into a war with r·c- sults familiar to all of us. The war brought Allied propa- ganda, atrocity stories. The people of a civilized wotld were charged with hate and loathing toward the German people. Even now, fifteen years after the armistice, similar propaganda, the pwduct of French and German-Jewish minds, is be- ing distributed. As a zesult we have never had, and we may neve1· have, a true conception of the German people. At the present time an oriental peGple, the Japanese, are enjoying successes similar to those Gf pre- war Germany. Likewise the bal- ance of power in Japan is in the hands of the militarists. A panicky China and a jealous Occident have commenced to flood the wol'ld tales of the \inhuman\ Japanese. If the world war achdeved noth- ing else it should have taught us how deceitful a government may be to further its own ends and how little fitted we are to- judge a race 6,000 miles distant. Our only contact with Japan has been through the products of Jap- anese capitalists and the actions of Japaneses militarists. Neither of these is fairly indicative of the race they represent. Let us remember that the Jap- anese may not be the great \dan- ger\ to the civilized world that manufacturers of war materials would have us believe. Let us con- sider awhile before we don uni- forms and march off to the strains of martial music to fight for \our\ country, for freedom, and to m.alte the world \safe for democracy.\ There are a number of ways in which the The most convincing- reason for having an 000 Early last Sunday morning a Harvar·d business school student from New York City was hauled off the fire escape of Noanett Hall, a W·ellesley dormitory, where he was waiting up the inmates with shouts for \Cinderella!\ No, it wasn't an initiation stunt. When arraigned on charges of d·runken- ness, driving without a license, and eavesdropping, he asserted that his matutinal mission was· that of re- turning to a Wellesley girl her lav- ender umbrella and a pair of rub- bers. But as we remember tile Cin- derella story, it was one slipper, and not two rubbers, much less a lav- ender umbrella! 000 This sounds like a steal from Bo!> Ripley,. but the other night in 9hoicago, Cam played against Abel m a hockey game, Cain belongs to th~ Montreal Maroons; Abel to the Chicago Blacl{hawks. , l!~der present conditions the pos- sr'!nhty of. a ~rue democracy is too s!Jght to JUStify the expenditure of one human life. student may agitrute for a change. First, the interchange of hospitality between frater- Student Couneil invites undergraduates to nities is the better understanding, the broader bring their problems to its meetings; where, outlook of problems, collegiate, fraternal, and an accurate presentaHon of the facts regard- individual, which results from after-dinner ing any organization and its value to the Stu- discussions between guest and hosts. dent Body will be carefully considered and Any move made by the various houses to wcted upon. Second, the undergraduate may 1·estore this old custom will be a constructive open a discussion and suggest a course of and strengthening· step for both the frater- action at a Student Body meeting. Third, nities and the college. 000 We still retain our member- ship in that exclusive band, the non-readers of Anth()ily Adverse. but w& are beginning to wealten, and in. warming Up for- the Big Event, we have just ploughed thl:rough Herbert Go1·man's \Jona- than Bishop,\ an historical novel of the Paris Commune., in which the Jong arm of coincidence gets pretty lame before the finish. We'll take our history straight, for the present, if you don't mind. 000 .All the way through the print- ell version .ot \Ab Wll4~rneSF#'' we 000 The season's best Mae West story concerns the remark of the impatient judge to the long-winded' l~wyer: \Yau must sum up some time.\ 00() True talk from President Co- nant's first report: \If we have in e~ch department the most disting- Uished .faculty which it is possible to obtam, we need have little worry about the future. If we fail in this regard, there are no educational panaceas which will restore Har- vard to i~s position of leadership.'' IGNO'l.'lJS \The Tech\ M. I. T. VERBUM SAT SAPIENT! The recent raucous disturbances and wanton, unnecessary destruction which has been carried on in the dormitories, mainly Geneva, deserves more than a remonstrative word. Aside from the utter lack of juqg- ment and thought which is apparent on the surface of everything that {Cqnt,hn.Jed on Pa!fe 3) I I(

by the ety ore im. ted ch- ich his to rsh e a ing Is ty- ber of en- ete re- ad- a.st en- ion in t·e- pa- ple Jar be- e. tal th- us be ow of of ni- of rd. I ~ THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1934 Three Swimming and Hockey Teams TO Be at Home Tomorrow ~--------~---------------® <!•--------------- Franklin -Marshall To Meet Swimmers ni:::::::::::m:::m:::::::::::m::m:m::m:m::::m::::i::;;i m I t I B k tb II m m n ramura as e a m Week's Best Editorials Union to Be Host' mmm:mmm:mmm::mm:m:mm:m::mmmmm~\i To Colgate Sextet!~ Notcrs On Our Ill [ In the Mail J Penusyhrania Team Includes. 'Skinny' Chalmers, Melllber Of 1932 Olympic 'l'eam Tomorrow ·afternoon Union's na- tators will encounter the strong ag- gregation of Franklin a.nd Marshall swimm.ei'S in Foote Pool in the Al- umni gymnasium. The Pennsylvan- ians will present veteran enott·ies in everey event, being especially pro- ficient in the free sty! eeven ts and the back stroke. Outstanding on the visitors team is Gordon \Skin- ny\ Chalmers, a member .of the United States Olympic swimming team in 1932, who specializes in the bacl{ sti:oke. The home team exhibite.d con- sidet·able improvement ·in its last meet against Rochester, but the Garnet will be seriously handicap- ped by the loss of Leake und Burd, distance and breast strokers, who will be ineligible. Bob Oppenheim has not yet reached his peak of pre- vious years but is expected to im- pt:ove his .Past performances to- monow. With the exception of Leake and Burd the team will bE' comprised of the same men who have taken part in the meets to date. F. a.ml M. Ml'ets Colg·ate The F. and M. boys will meet the Colg-ate team at Hamilton today for their first meet of the season. Union was defea.ted by Colgate three weelcs ago by a score of 59 to 12. \Boom\ Schuman will attempt to continue his splendid record of the ::;eason, of taking a first in ever-y meet, when he will dive against the best. co~n~petilion he has met this year. ----,0---- Fencers Have Four Matches Arranged Willimm; to Be Met in Hmne And Honte Meet; Hamilton And Colgate Teams on List With four intercollegiate matches a1 ranged wHh three nearby college fencing teams, a piclced team, com- posed of members of Mr. Kurt von Forstrneyer's fencing class, is prac- ticing daily in an effort to make its first intercollegiate appearance one of honor. The first match is scheduled for February 10 against a 'Williams col- lege tearn at Williamstown. The Purple outfit is in the same cate- gory as Union, inasmuch as it is not a recognized sport in the col- lege. Williams will meet Union in a rl'turn match here on Ma1·ch 3. Ham.ilton and Colgate The other two meets have been arranged with Hamilton on Febru- ary 17, and Colgate for :March 10. The Hamilton match will be staged at Clinton while the Colgate fencers will come to Union for their match. The Union fencers are Robert Slobod, '33, Virgil Sager, '25, and Frank Champ, '35, all foilsmen; Albert Morrison, '34, and Stuart Rogers, '35, sabermen, and Morrison and Merton Zubres, '36, as epeemen. .Michael Tytko, '35, and Hanltine Hinman, '35 are substitutes, while Zubres will be of general utility. The fencing team. consists of se- ven men, including thtee foilsmen, two sabermen, and two epeemen. Five minute competition between two men Is staged with the winnet· being the one who scores the most touches du1·ing that time. 0---- Winter Sports Carnival To Ee Held on Local Rink A winter sports carniv.al wili be held tomorrow at the local Central Parlt skating rinlr, With five open events and four special events com- prising the program. The open events are 220, 440, and 880 yard da~hes, one mile skate, and one mile club relay. The spe- cial events are exhibition skating, barrel hurdle race, cross country ski race and cross country snow shoe race . Entries may be mailed to H. C. Davis, 108 Union Street on or be- fore six: o'clock Friday-, or pre- sented at Mr. Bradshaw's office at Central Park before one o'clock Saturday, · ----a----- WILLIAMS SEXTET WINS ... l ::: m eagues m \~~::::m::::::::m:i:im:::::m::m::::::::m:::::::m::m:i~,, Neutrals, Phi Gams Win Their Leagues End of First Half of Leagues Finds Neutrals Undefeated; Phi Gants Lost Only One The fh·st half of the Intramural Basketball League was ended W·edc nesday evening with the Neutral quintet victors in the Nationa1 Leag-ue and the Phi Gamma Delta five 011 top of the .1\.mel'ican League. Both winning fives showed un- usual ~tl·ength all dul'ing the first half, which consisted of eight g-ames in the National branch and seven m the Arnerican loop. The Neuttals wet·e undefeated in eig·ht games, while the I<'ijis lost only one con- ·,et>t. Scor·es of \Vinne1•'s Game.> The Neutral:> scored their vic- tories as follows: N eutmls 36, Del- la Chi, 15; Neutrals 28, Psi Upsilon 10; Neutrals 34, Sigma Chi 17; Neu- trals 50, Phi Sigma Kappa 15; Neu- trals 14, Lambda Chi Alpha 13: Neutrals 28, Delta Upsilon 12: Neu- trals 2, Thl'rta Delta Chi 0, and Neutr·als 41, Kappa I,u 20. Twenty points wet e the most any team gatnered against the winning five. The Phi Garr·am Delta live won theii· games as follows: Phi Gam- ma Delta 20, Phi Delta Thela 15· Phi Gamma Delta 21, Theta Nu Ep~ silon 19: Phi Gamma Delta 26 Phi Sigma Delta 6; Phi Gumma Delta: 33, Alpha Delta Phi 18; Phi Gamma Delta 29, Kappa Alpha 14; Phi Gam- ma Delta 2, Delt<t Pi Nu 0 \forfeit)· Beta Theta Pi 27, Phi Gamma Del~ ta 23. Finnl. Standing·-Fh·st Half Xatloual LI'UA'll<' \'eulrob ..................... s Pella e11~ilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . li l'si l'PHI!Oll . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . G Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Ka]Jpa ~u ..........•......... 3 Phi S'·gma K1~ppa . . . . • . . . . . . . . :1 Lam bela ·l'·hi .\lpha . . . . . . . . . . . ,, Higma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Theta Della Chi ............. . Anwriean LCilA'UC Ph.i (lam rna llplta.. . . • . . . . . . . . . 6 'rheta :-..\u Ep~ilon. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 I3etn Theta Pi,.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Phi l>elta 'rheta ............ :: . 5 Alpha l'lPlta Phi........... . .. 2 l:c!la .f'i :o;u......... ... . .. . .. . 2 I ht Sl!rma lleltn.............. . 2 KaJI[>a Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Maroon Outfit Has Won Only m.il!i:i,:,.~.:.:~:,.~,: .. :.:.,~.~::::~:::!.~ One Game, and That at the Advet'tising Heaven Ex11ense of Al'my Sextet' In order to give prospective stu- dents a good idea of life at Roch- ester Univer»ity, the authotities are Tomorrow afternoon at 2 p. m. on filming a set of pictures of typical student activitie~, to be shown in the rink at Central Park the Colgate high and pi epa1 a tory schools. Roch- hockey team will meet the Union· ester, by the way, is the school tha.t varsity sextet. Although the Maroon' abolished cigl:.t o'clock classes, maintaining tha:t the student sle~ps has only won one game out of seven better in bed than in clasH. this season, having defeated the * * Army 2 to 1, while losing to Mich- EnU'l' Ma.cbe.tb igan, Hamilton, and four Canadian The ghost of Shakespeare will teams, the experience gained from not be at all sm·prised when Ham- .playing theo>e vetewn teams has im- ilton Coll!'ge producl's his \Mac• proved their strength considerably. beth,\ for true to the old drama tic tradition, Lady Macbeth will r!'ally The Garnet may look for a much be a man. The play wil be given closer game than was played last ·by the C'lass on. Dramatic Inter- year when Union defeated Colgate pretation, which has, as pa1 t of its B-1. course, the pmduction of one Shakespearean drama a yrar. Dul'ing the past week l\llr. Achilles * * and Dr. Clarl> have been preparing Collegiate Tt-I·psichoi'A the team for tomorrow's contest, and. in the third of a series of practice Wh('n the bi·rds begin to twitter, games with the Albany Academy Sy1 acuse will not only !mow that earlier· in the wee!>, the sext!'t Spring is here, but that the dancing showed marlu?d improvt.>ment, es- students of the University a.re go- pecially in its offense, by scoring ing to produce their dance drama. 12 goals and at the same time hold- Practically ail of the phases of col- ing their opponents scmeless. With lPge life, except hell week, will be the exception that either Neumann interpreted in dance forms. The or BI f•aTton will start at goalie, tht> p1 ogu1m as now planned will in- same team that lost to the Army elude reg·istmtion, rushing, ;;tudy. will p 10 bably start against Colgate. classes, dances, activities, athletics, and will also let the audience on to The p1 oballle stm ting lineups fol- the actions of a fema:le cheering low: section at a foot-ball game. Pos. UNION COLGATE G Neumann, Brea1 ton ... Billings RD Williams . . . . . . . . . Pumphrey LD Fox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Broolte C Jenkins ......... McDonough RW Hutton . . . . . . . . . . . . Galbraith LW Summethayes ....... Wheeler -----o---- OUTING CLUB NOTICE The Outing Club will mPet in Middle Section, South College, Sun- day at 2:30 p. m. ----iJ.'7. --- ... GARNET NOTICE ~ . The pictures of the fraternity houses and the group photographs of their members will be taken in the near future according to an announcement ntade yesterday by Duncan S. McNab '35, Editor of the Garnet. All the assistant editors must prepare the lists of the active fraternity members. ,, * Alas, Poor Y oricld Other football players may work out on an ice truck, but such stuff is effeminate to Ted Rosequist. Ohio State star. His st1 ength and sustenanc·e is derived hom digging graves. There is a rumor th:at he may follow this up by becoming a doctor, Quit{l an Improvement The Wellesley College News re- ports that a theater in the vicinity is featuring Lillian Gish in a State of Grace for one week only. .. * * If students at the University of California make grades of A, they receive a $5.00 rebate on their tui- tion. * * Carlos Hevia, 33-year-old graduate of the United States Naval Academy, accepted the presidency of Cuba la.st week after a chaotic day during which nobody knew who was run- ning the country. * * '* John Guy Fowlkes, professor of education at the University of Wis- consin, believes it would be a good idea to allow children to learn some- thing of the rottenness of govern- ment. Sport Slides * * * The female of the collegiate spe- c1es is inclined to abstain from alco- holic beverages much less than the male, if a questionnaire circulated by the Commerce Bulletin of New York university indicates anything. by Arnold J. Friedman * * * McGill University (Canada) stu- dents have turned out in such num- bers for ping-pong matches that the school has built a special bleacher section to accommodate ail specta- tors. * Mae West has been chosen to ~;elect the girls who malte up the beauty section of Louisiana Tech's yearbook. * Belief on the part of many that they can do their best work after having had \a little drink,\ was shown to be erroneous in a series of experimetlts carried on recently at Cmnell university by Dr. A. L. Win- sor and Dr. E. J. Stongin. (Continued from Page 2) ·has been done, there are several con- siderations which should be brought to the attention of those who do not al-ready realize them. Hobart is more lenient in its mpervision of dormitories than al- most any college of its kind in thiS part of the country. The freedom of the student to come and go and act within the bounds of reason Is un- questioned. With very few excep- tions, the students of the past have taken advantage of their privileges, but have not failed to appreciate them to the extent of abusing them. Of late, however, abuse of privilege in the dormitories has become some- what chronic-chronic to the extent of attracting disapproval from out- side the college and of causing an- noyance and trouble to uninvolved members of the student community. Damage done to college property is taken out of the student damage fund to which every student in col- lege subscribee. Is it fair and honor- Pble that the thoughtlessness of a very small minority should cause financial loss to the rest of the stu- dents in college when many of these Biudents can ill afford to lose a penny of the money deposited? We, ourselves, answer the questil;>n with an emphatia and heartfelt \No!\ The college is doing everything within its power to aid hard-hil stu- t:ents over the depression. The amount of student aid given by the college is enormous, and it seems to us a rather shabby show of appre- ciation for a few to carr·y on as they have .been of late. What is more, we definitely know that one or two tnembers of the recalcitrant group are themselves receiving aid from the college. The problem is one which should be settled by the students them- selvefl. Hence, this expression of opinion. However, if the thing can- 'lOt be remedied by the students in ohort order, it will be the natural thing for the college authorities to step in and take things into their own hands. If this should come to pass the results are apt to be rather serious. and we talte it upon our- selvefl to say that further dishonor- able conduct will not only be a dis- play of poor judgment and utter lack of cooperation, but will also be an out and out case of tempting Providence, We are in the midst of a time when cooperation is not only desired but practically required, and with this we will close by saying that we hope that in this case at least a word to the wise will be sufficient. -Tile Hobart Herald A survey made by New York Uni- vei·sity has revealed \bull sessions\ to be detrimental to' scholarship. * * Because college petters parlted their cars before his home, a pro· (essor at New York university asked trustees of his suburban town not to have snow removed from the roads so that he could spend some peace- ful evenings. * J. H. Dennis, 70, city claim agent, is giving up his job in order to entet• the University of Manitoba, Canada, as a freshman next week. * .. In order to solve the problem of jobless persons with doctor's de- grees, Germany has decided that only 15,000 students will be permit- ted to enter German universities next yera. Only one woman for E'very ten men will be permitted to matriculate. s. R. c. The Concordiensis is not re- sponsible for anything published herein. The opinions are not necessarily a part of its editorial policies. To The Editor of The Concordiensis: A few weeks ago an announce- ment appea.red in the Concordien- sis to the effect that those students who were in need of assistance in meeting -their tuition payment fot· next semester could file an applica- tion with the Bmsar for the priv- ilege of paying their tuition in in- stalments. There at·e undoubtedly quite a few men in Union who are very much in need of some such system as this,-men who actually have to scratch and dig for every cent they get. Now, why should the CoUege, af- ter offering this helping hand, and displaying a more or less magna- nim~>us attitude, stoop to collect \a charge of $5.00 for this service\? The recipient of this \assistance\ is actuany being penalized to about 8';0 interest on the interest on the tuition of one semester, considering the fact that the principal is paid in four monthly installments. This is parallel in some respects to the situation in which a CW A worker holds his job by paying a certain percentage of his earnings to the political machine of his city OI' county. Certainly Union College, the col- lege which is a.ttempting to nvo- lutionize itself in many ways, can afford to lend gratuitous assistance to those students of fair scholastic standing who really need to pay especially when the student seelting th.is assistance 1s forced to go th1·ough considerable red-tape and t(} have a personal interview with the Bursar before this \privilege\ Is granted to him \if it is gran.ted at all) . Why not raise the general tui- tion a few cents to absorb this bur- den which is placed at present on those men who can least afford to bear it? Sincerely yours, B. B. D. '36 In Behalf of the Entire Class? To the Editor of The Concordinsis: I am writing you in behalf of the freshmen of Union College. As you well know the freshmen are com- pelled t(} partake of at least two hours of some gymnastical exercise each week. After each workout it becomes necessary- for the fresh- men to take a shower, It is about this bi-weeldy shower ceremony that I am writing. The shower problem should and m.ust be solved. Have the old sh-owers fixed so that a student can regulate the temperature (}f the water with which he wishes to cleanse his body-, EDWARD AKULLIAN,'37 THE BRASS RAIL TASTY FOODS and DRINKS 8 State Street Opp. Van Curler Hotel It is indeed encouraging to see that the members of the fencing class have taken the courage to enter intercollegiate competition as a club even though they were denied recognition as a minor sport, due to reasons with which almost everyone agrees, The Williams College fencing enthusiasts are in the same position as the Union men, and the home and home series arranged with them is helpful to both collegeco in fostering the interest in the respective schools. Both Hamilton and Colgate have fencing teams which me Iecognized as such, and the ;;taging of meets with tht>se two schools also will help to bring the frncing club bt>fore the student body. At the present time the team which will meet these three colleges is composed mostly of juniors. If any substitution is necessary in the Garnet team, there will not be enough material capable of intercollegiate competition, but next year there will be an abundance of men from the present fresh- man class who will be able to represent the club. ~········································································~ Much interest is taken in fencing at Hamilton. During the Chl'ist- mas holidays, two Hamilton men represented that school in the annual hiVitation meet of the Fencers' League, held at the New York Athletic Club in New York city. William Scanlan reached the semi-finals where he was put out after winning one bout, 5 to 4, from Nesses of N. Y. U., an1llosing two close matches, one to 'Bullard, captain of the Yale team, and one to J.\'Iateoglan of Columbia. For this meet, tlu-ee men were invited from each of fifteen eastern colleges. Competition was arranged in six strips of seven mt-n each with tlll'ee 1h·awlng byes. The winner of t-.ach sbip qualified for the semi-finals in which it was necessary to win two out of tln·('e matches in o1·de1' to •·each the finals. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5 THIS PAPER IS MADE POSSIBLE 5 • • • • 5 BY 5 • • a • 5 AD\'ERTISERS 5 • • • • 5 LET'S SHOW THEM 5 • • 5 OUR APPRECIATION ! •• • 5 BY SUPPORTING THEM 1 00% E • • • • Williamstown, Mass. 1 Jan. 19,- The Wiiliiams Co.Jlege Hookey team scot•ed six goals in the final period to overwhel!• the Massachusetts State sextet 10-1 in a. game this af- terno{)n.. Captain Rogers starred for tbe ]lurple with three g()als and an a.s~st. Another big sport at Hamilton is hockey. During the winter this sport is more important than basketball or swimming. The Buff and Blue outfit spent part of the Christmas recess at Lake Placid where it played three games with the Williams College sextet and won all of them. Each game was won by a two goal margin. Hamilton also defeated Middlebury on the icc by a 3 to 0 score. Union defeatt'd Middlebury, 1 to 0. As far as basket- ball is concerned, the Hamilton team was defeated easily by Clarkson Tech by a 49 to 23 score, Union easily trounced Clarkeon earlier this year. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • : . . ........................................................................ ~

Four THE OONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1934 Cornerstone of Old Gymnasium Was Laid by Ancient Order of Freemasons cease to be true of her, in all the the following uniform was chosen:; .F==============================~ coming .years, words which· will \First the suits of dark blue :lllan- oiten be heard within these walls nel, secondly, the buttons of gutta · now about to rise upon this new percha instead of brass, thirdly, sack foundation, and these words are, coats similar to undress of officers:< 'Strike Out! Strike Out!' of the U. S. A., four.thly, ca,ps sim- : VISIT By JOliN D. ANDERSON The gymnasium was finished and ilar to the naval cap of the U. S~ N., after considerable delay was equip-· fifthly, the ornaments of said cap, ped with dressing rooms, bath rooms, the monogram U. C. in gilt braid :· accordance with the rites of the An- rooms for the baseball, boat, and •letters surrounded by a gilt wreath.\ The MOHAWK TAVERN The Old Gymnasium, now the Old Gym Dorm, wM wit~out doubt a lar\e building in its time. At the tirrfe the ground was broken for the structure, the following article was published in the Spectator for May 1873. \Ground was broken in the first week of the month for the long :~ll:c-1 of zymn~<>ium anct th~ w~rk is well under way. The foundation is about complete and the corner FtnnP will hf' laid with appropriate ceremonies by the president ~m the. 30th. It is a huge room bemg 4tl feet in wiclth by 80 feet in length. Hs present height is a trifle m;er t~n l.undred millions of feet whwh Will soon be reduced to 40 feet bec1l:use it would be (Siriusly) inconvement to attach pulleys etc., to the fixed ;;tars.\ The cornerstone was later laid in ----0--- Production To Current Decline Due Depression <Continued from Page 1) issues for 1933 amounted to £126,- 515,415 (about $632,000,000) the highf'~t trtal ~inc~ 1930. \Good and Workable\ Baldwin B. Bane of the Federal Trade Commission, which is in charge of the issuance of new secur- ities, has said that the Act is \good :dlu \\Ul ka!Jle.\ He ar !;UC:: that 1!.<'ll' :s no demand at the present time for f\r:;t-class securities. A \lance at the demand for securities f:.t~J on the New Yo1k Stock Ex- d;un,;e would ::cem to discredit this argument. Senator Fletcher, chair- man of the Banking and Currency Cummittcc, is quoted by the N~w Yurk lle:·ald Tribune to have sard: ··r ..1111 ~trun,;ly in favor of the act. It lu.,; pr ot!.!cl<.:J the public from wildcat i::;ouc~ hut it ha.::; not slowed up the iso uan'ce of new securities.\ ln v;ew of the flg.ure~ on new finan- cing quoted ab0ve, the burden of pruuf de ally r e:;t,; upon Senator F.etchu tu shuw that hi::; latter con- tention b ll ue. And thete is s0me <.iuuLt that the .\d ha.; \protected ~'. : • 1l ·:. f'! 'll '.\\ii .. t' : ,IF·'=\ Thr· Act ·naB hat<'lled out a mi>;cellaneous batch of issues of the most specula- tive nature. such as securities of gold mines, breweries, and distiller- ies. Meanwhile the older, larger, more conservative and more diversi- fied companies have been extremely reluctant to venture forth with new issues. The Act, by its unreasonable liabilities and its excessive penalties fnr violation, places such great ris~s 11p\n i<'\ling cnrporn.tion.s ~nd the1r ditPrtnrs and upon dealers m secur· i tic., that it ha::; made competent men unwilling- to shoulder the re- sponsibilities that go with new is- sues. An intensive study of the Secur- itt~<' A<'t in an effort to determine to what .. xt ... nt tt is re<ponsrble for the <Jt vrng up of t hP capital market is h• in,! madP Ht thf! prr~ent time by t ht· FPdt•t HI Trade Commission. In vrew of the fact that refundmg oper- :;tlons confronting private business in the next 18 months are estimated at $1 500,000,000, this action is com- mendable. If the Act is to be re- vised. the logical time to do it would f'<><>m to be during the present ses- sion of Congress. And indications are that revisions will be made. ----0--- Additions to New Union Plan Suggested By Doty rContin'\!~q,from Page 1) and ebtc three additions to the plan on nbjectives: bne of these I con- oilier to be imperative, the others, important. I incluqe these here be- r~m,-e I consitlPr that our plan has heen so carefully made that it leads Ji:t·ctly and logically to them and on tlw uther hand I believe the plan wrll not be complete without them. 1. Iru(if>ratiw. Before our plan is complete we should make formal pz·ovision for the brighter students. We could establish a sort of precept- or ial by.,;tem within each division, re- lic·vinc: cPt l:tin profeosors of three hour~ of fot mal rlaFs work in order thPt th<>y mig-ht prepare and super- vise programs of study for the more gifted. This is a sound academic prorr><lure, it would prove most at- tractive to just the sort of student we want. and it would create an ex- Cl·llent impre:;::~ion outside the Col- lege. 2. Imnortant. Under our plan it i~ possible to grant each division a faculty of a certain size but to allow each some latitude as to the sched- Hlc of each teacher. Thi~ idea re- lates to No. 1 above and would make poesible the application of the pre- cepto' ial idea. 3. Important. I would like to see certain other divi.:;ion.:; make more use of social studies. Science majors will need history and economics and I cannot divorce the study of Eng- lish literature from a reading of English history. These are simply examples of what I mean. I think our plan will admit of this and I think ultimately those who direct othPr divisions will see that their ~tudents will need these studies. In the meantime I think we might E>xert a grntlf' and constant pressure in that dit ection. I hope I have not gone too far afield in this letter. I can assure you that the members of my depart- ntPnt arf' doing all in their power to make the plan an unqualified sue- cess. JOSEPH D. DOTY, Professor of History --~-o·---- NGRTH TO SPEAK cient Order of Free Masons with music clubs, and later with bowling great show of pomp and ceremony a1lleys, rowing machines and other by all parties concerned. Judge J. apparatus. Captain Ward, a West S. Landon made the concluding Point graduate and Civil Wa.r vet- speech, ending: \You will pardon eran, was detailed to Union to teach On Wednesday, Ro·bert No11th '36 me if I close by giving, as a sort of Gymnastics and Military Drill. Then will deliver an illustrated lecture . sentiment, two words, which give came a fight over the uniform to be •before the Zonta Club of Albanw . Y0icc to the true life of 01<.1 l.Tnion, ·I wu1n in the Military Drill. After ,.at the Ten Eyck Hotel on \Travel/ words which I trust shall never much wrangling among the classes by Reindeer.\ Clams and Oysters OUR SPECIALTY 322 State Street Next to Overhead Crossing 'FJH[JBJ JfiEIGJHf'F OF GOO]f) 'FAS'Ir1E Copyright. 1934, The American Tubacco<:umpo.n,y Direct from theM etropo/itaiJ Opera House Saturday at 1:40 P.M., Eastern Standard Time. over Red and Blue Networks of NBC, LUCKY STRIKE will broadcast the Metropolitan Opera Company of New York in the complete Opera, \Die Walkure.\ In making Lucky Strike Cigarettes we use the finest Turkish and domestic tobacco-and only the center leaves for they are the mildest and the most tender. And every Lucky is so round, so :firm, so full packed-no loose ends. NOT the top leaves-they're wider- - deve/oped-tizey are harslz I Cream of the Crop \The tenderest, mildest, smoothest on>··--·~\' NOT the bottomleaves-tkey'reitzferior i11 ·quality-coarse and always sa11dy I .I ~· i il ,, ~ J f. I ; i I' ; \ I' ' l '1 ; ! f I; I ij I l

I' t: ~ ... t • .... ·- I '-· i .:...11 I. !I · ,_ ! •• ·. Dr. John L. .. Ocarina Trio March To Lead tS To Give Short Second Forum Skit On Sponsored By Glee Club Christian Prog1·am On Association Week-End Trip Vol. LVII., No. 32 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS Present MoRetary· System of Country• Has Two Dollars 'Good-will Ambassadors' to Journey to Watertown and Oswego . Final Preparations Arranged for Glee Club Concert Tour 'Exchange' Dollar, 'Domestic' Dollar Are Disregarded by Warren in Senate Testimony Doubtful Validity One Hundred Cent Dollar Now Worth Sixty Cents in Gold By LESUE R. LONG Most of the di<\cu«sion of the new UnitPd States monrtnry policy does not take account of the fact that two dollars are being dealt with. One is the \exchange\ dollar. The other is the \domestic\ dollar. Professor Rogers briefly touched this point · but Professor Warren disregarded it. completely in their testimony be- fore the Scnnte Banking and Cur- ' ency Committee la,;t week. Yet on their recommendation the President has made changes in the exchange dollar in the hope and expectation that these changes will be communi- cated to the domestic dollar. The assumption that a definite change in one of the dollars will casually effect a corresponding change in the other oollar has excited much controversy. Th,• , , .. .-h tngt· tlt11l:u i:-:: tht> otH' that is translatable only into the money of other nations. It indicates just how much the dollar is worth in commodities and services on the world markets. Under the gold bill the price of the exchange dollar will be arbitrarily established at 50 to 60 per cent of its old ratio. It will be D 100 cent dollar worth between 50 and 60 cents in gold. At the present time, te hexchange dollar is hovering on the edge of the upper limit - to be exact, 59.06 cents, or a 40 per cent depreciation. Domestic Dollar On the other hand, the deprecia- tion of the domestic dollar has not been anything like 40 per cent. The cost of living is a fair index of what is happening to the domestic cur- r·ency unit. A('cording to the latest 1ndex publihsed by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, the cost of living shows a gain of between 5 and 6 per cent during the six months ending December 31. By the most liberal estimate, the domestic dollar has been depressed not to exceed 10 per cent. In other words its domes- tic commodity value is 90 cents or above. It is quite obvious that thds <lollar has a long way to go before it romes abreast of the exchange dollar. Theoretical Link The theoretical link between the two different dollars is difficult to follow. It is immediately apparent in the case of cotton or any com- modity which flows through a world market which operates on a single basic price. Now if the exchange dollar is artificially cheapened and can be kept so in terms of foreign turrencies, the basic price of cotton on world markets might remain the ~arne. But it would be marked up in domestic dollars received by American exporters to the full ex- tent of the depreciation. So far, the theoretical ·aspects of the problem are quite clear. But the domestic nollar is far more than a cotton dol- lar. Its value is determined by the average of the prices paid in dollars for all kinds of American commod- ities-not cotton alone. And the ma- jority of these prices are not affected in any way by world conditions. Pavlovsky•s Analysis The argument, to date, seems to be very much on the side of those economists who disclaim any direct casual connection between the two dollars. Mr. Leo Paslovsky of the Brookings Institute, after a careful rnalysis of the problem, concludes that the connection \is not general or horizontal in character, repre- &enting an automatic adjustment of all commodity prices to alterations in the price of gold. The price changes that take place begin with commodities passing into interna- tional commerce, and even these changes do not necessarily corres- pond closely with the depreciation of the currency. Their effect upon the general level of costs and prices within the country is indhect and, at best, slow. The extent to which the general domestic price level will rise is affected by a large variety of fac- tors in the general business and fis- cal situation, and the specific influ- ence of cuFrency depreciation cannot be dissociated from the operation of these other factors.\ Mr. Pasvolsky also finds that there is no support in the experience of those countries which have depreciated their cur- rency for the theory which assumes that the commodity price level · (Continued on Page 4) Psychology Department Head To Lead S!'cond in Series of Forums Given by College-Y In the second of a series of forums ~ponsorE'd by the college Y. M. C. A. tomorrow evening at eight in the Old Chapel Dr. John L. March, head of the Department of Psychology, will answer several questions of great religious, psychological, and anthropological interest. Dr. March has had extensive training in these three fields, for he has devoted his life in recent years to the study of the evolution of the mind. What is the most primitive form of religion? Dr. March in his ad- dress on the Evolution of Religion will show how this primitive drive began, and will discuss the possi- bility of religion as a primitive uecessity. The second topic to be c.iscussed will be an explanation of why all the world's great religions had their origin in the East. There are but few important creeds that had their start in the west, and these have been an outcropping of some ancient eastern form. The third topic is closely related to the sub- ject to be discussed in a future forum by Dr. Peter I. Wold, \The Merits of Proselyting.\ The ques- tion is, why has Christianity suc- ceeded better in Europe and Amer- ica than in Asia? Should Christians endeavor to take back the faith Into those countries from which it sprang? The last question to be treated by Dr. March is modern in tone and has been the cause of mpch bitter controversy. What is the uifference between religion and sci- ence? Will religion in time become a science? 'What Boys Belong in College' Waldron's Subject Over WGY Mr. Charles N. Waldron, secre- tary of the college and of the grad- uate council, addressed the radio audience over the network of WGY between 2:45 and 3:00 o'clock this afternoon on the subject, \What Boys Belong in College.\ Mr. Wal- dron's address was the third in a series of ten weekly broadcasts on the Union Plan by members of the faculty and administration of the college. TUITION NOTICE Tuition for the second semester is $175 plus $20 for student fees. Payments for freshmen and soph- omores will be continued tomor- row at the bursar's office while juniors and seniors will make their payments Thursday and Friday. Students are requested to fill out the coupons that have been given to them before going to the Administration Building. Athletic tickets will be issued by Mr. Parks at the gymnasium upon presentation of the re- ceipted term bill. Levis to Give Recital Of Chinese Music in Chapel An unusual treat is in store for music lovers, according to the an- nouncement made today by Dr. W. Leon Godshall, chairman of the Ichabod Speneer Foundation lecture committee. John Hazedel Levis, in- ternationally known authority will give a vocal and instrumental re- cital, accompanied by an explana- tory talk on the music of China, in the second of the Spencer lectures, Friday night, February 16. No ad- mission will be charged to the lec- ture which will take place in the Memorial Chapel. Born in Shanghai of Britishpar- ents, Mr. Levis did not leave China, except for a short excursion to Jap- an until he began his concert tour a year ago. He has devoted all his life to studying Chinese music and will present the beautiful and richly melodic music of all China-music that the Western ear has rarely if ever. heard. He will also play 'var- ious Chinese Instruments, including the ti-tse or Chlnese flute, the yang- chin or Chinese dulcimer, the so-na or Chinese oboe and the celebrated chinese violin known as the hu- chin. In addition, Mr. Levis will sing ~any picturesque and colorful Streat Calls and chants S\lrround- ing the ceremonies attending ori- ental monast1o services. CALENDAR Tomorrow Registration, payment of tuition, freshmen and sophomores, Bur- sar's office. Daily Assembly-Speaker, Dr. JameB W. Mavor. Y. M. C. A. Forum, Old Chapel, 8 p. m., Speaker, Dr. John L. March. Hockey, Union vs. Hamilton at Clinton. Glee Club rehearsal, Hanna Hall, 3:30p.m. CcllPge Orche.stt a Reheat tial, Silliman Hall, 7:30 p. m. Thursday Registration, payment of tuition, juniors and seniors, Bursar's · office. Daily Assembly-Speaker, Dr. Peter I. Wold. Debate, Union vs. Elmira at El- mira. Friday Registration, payment of tuition, juniors and cseniors, Bursar'IS I Dean's List Shows Senior Class Leads I Seniors With 1 OR on List A1·e ' Fat· Ahead of Juniors, Who I Score Only 60 Honor Men I The Dean's List for the first sem- ; ·st~r. iesued by the office yesterday, ; shows 168 upperclassmen enrolled · 108 seniors and 60 juniors, while the 1 1·ntil c list totals 306, as compared to ! 199 last February. The Dean's List for the freshmen and sophomores will be printed in the Concordiensis r ext Friday. The upperclassmen's list follows: SENIOR CLASS A. B. Course Paul Adanti, Herbert A. Aspin, Harry T. Baldwin, Edward T. Barna, I William Beers, Frederick M. Bill- 1 ings, Richard D. Blanchard, Everett El A Bliss, Raymond Bonk, Charles S. mer · I Bridgman, James G. Burke, John T. office. Daily Assembly, Dr. Tidmarsh, singing. Burns, William J. Burns, Victor Campriello, James H. Chrysler, College Dance Orchestra to Appear With Glee Club in Concert Friday, Saturday Varied Program Arrang:d Program Includes Clas~ic.1l, Popular and Novelty M.z.sic Intensive rehearsals of the Glee C'lub ar<' b<'ing hl'ld thb week in p1·epa.1 wlion fut a. <:<>ncell luu1· schedul'ed for Friday and Saturday. This will be the ~econd trip of the tiCason and will include Lowville, Watertown and. Oswego. The 42 member\' of the Glee Club, who will makP thP trip, will b<' ac- companiPd by the Ga1 net Goblins. The first of the th rPc conrerts of the tour is scheduled for Friday afternoon in the Lowville High School and is under the auspices of the Lowville Kiwanis Club. That evening, the club will give a con- cert in Watertown sponsored by the senior class of the ·watertow-n High School. The club will conclude . its trip with a .-on.-<'rt Raturrlav 'cvcamg lll U~'h cgu, 1-\ L1c·ll 1ti u!Hlet the auspices of the junior and sen- ior classes of the Oswego High School. The program which has been ar- ranged by Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh includes classical, popular, folk and novel-ty music. One of the features of the program wiU be an occarinna. quartet consisting of Thornton W. Whipple, '35, Thomas Brown, '35, James Horan, '34. In addition a. vocal quartet, and a string quartet will appear on the program. Fol- lowing the concert, dancing will take place to the music of the nine- piece Garnet Goblin dance orches- tra. The Glee C'lub has already ap- peared in a concert in Kingston and is \cheduled to give concerts later in New York City, Rochester, Mt. Kisco, PoughkPepsie, and Freeport, L. I. -----0---- Parks Shows How To Find Adventures College Presents Opportunities For Thrilling Experiences If Students Search for Them Committee Reports Read At Schenectady Alumni Luncheon Joseph B. Cortesi, Thaddeus G. Cow- ell Jr., Thomas J. Crowley- Jr., \College present-6 the opportunity Joseph DeBlase, Albert W. DeMat- to one for meeting a thrilling ex- teo, Alfred J. DiCaprio, LaVerne A. perience,\ said Dr. Edgar J. Parks, Dillenbeck, William L. Draper, Ron- president of Wheaton College, at the At a luncheon of the Schenectady aid L. Faulkner, Daniel F. Flinn, II, . . . Donald F. Flora, Arnold J. Fried- chapel services Sunday. His text Alumm AssociatiOn yesterday after- man, Harold Z. · Gallant, Elli;s B. ·followed with this verse from the noon, B. W. Conrad, '16, Superin-~ Garrison, Jr., Julius Golderman, scripture.s, \And they- said it was tendent of Schools in Scotia and Henry P. Gulnac, Herbert F. Haus- 1 W 'll' J H · · · · .... good for us to be here.\ He pictured chairman of the Recruiting Com- o:e;, 1 Jam · e!fernan, Daniel T. . . . H11l, Howard M. Hills, James Horan, a scrub woman who, after having m1ttee reported upon prospective Edward G. Horstman, Charles W. slaved arduously in the main hall ot freshmen from Schenectady and I Huntley, Samuel Jackson, Carl a large station, returns to a bleak, vicinity. Cordes Johnson, Arthur J. Katzberg, After Louis Oppenheim, '75, had. Sar;n,uel Keats, Irving A. Kus?man, poorly furnished home about four read a report on the financial status I Ph1hp B. :r..angworthy, Dav1d J. o'clock in the morning and prepares of the association, plans were dis- Locke, L.eslte R. Long, Joseph A. for the coruirtg day. A vision of two cussed for the formation of a steer-~ Maney, Sidney D. Markman, Harold young people who go out for an 'all ing committee. (Continued on Page 4) night' good time and then come back World War and Jazz Had Disastrous Effect on College Musical Clubs The Glee Club has not always been the successful organization which won first place in the State Competition in 1931 under Dr. Tid- marsh. It has had its ups and downs, but none worse than the de- feat which it took in the World War. Before the United States cast its lot with the Allies the club was making fifteen and twenty appear- ances a year; fifteen hundred miles of trips were not uncommon. With the general exodus of stu- dents to the training camps and diversion of all effort to War work the club curtailed its travels to include only the neighboring towns of Altamont and Ballston Spa. Ad- mitting to membership anyone who could read ill the ltey of C and would appear at rehearsals, the Glee Club struggled on to an ignoble collapse in 1919 when, with half its members declared ineligible at mid-years, it finally faded into in- nocuous desuetude, to be resurrec- ted in 1929 by Professor Henry A. Schauffler, newly arrived to the Engineering Department. The jazz craze was another gift of the War to music; smoldered as rag-time for two decades, jazz flamed up in 1915 when James K. Gorham's band became the hit of Chicago. Spreading over the coun- try, the music hit New York where Ted Lewis pranced about before his band sporting a battered top hat, his clarinet \squeeling like a pig,\ his trombonist breaking forth with glissandos and all sorts of amazing outbursts, and his drum- mer brandishing tin cans, rattles, frying pans, cowbells, and a pierc- Ing whistle. The Union Musical Association replaced its banjos with ukeleles in 1917 and introduced a jazz band on its programs the following year. After the Armistice the ukeleles dis- appeared, and with them went gui- tars, long a distinctive feature of the college instrumental club. Ban- jos and a few mandolins persisted for a few years but their era was over. In 1926 the Union Dance Orchestra became the Garnet Gob- lins. to prepare themselves for another similar episode was also depicted. \Why do these peop·le go on living under such conditions?\ the speaker asked. They all have the hope that some day something so happy, so pleasant, and so thrilling will pre- sent itself that their past life will be justified. \Interesting experiences are en- countered, not found by waiting,\ continued Dr. Park. One of his stu- dents was travelling through Char- tres in France and wrote a brief note saying that the carburetor broke down. Sometime later he re- eeived a letter from another pupil who had recently passed through the eame town. The latter, however, de- scribed wiht much color and vivid- ness the cathedrals, village houses, beautiful green hillsides, and other wonderful sights. This story exem- plified how one must go out in order to meet experiences. Dr. Park brought his sermon to a close with a metaphor comparing ~dventure with a pump. A pump is useless unless a little water is added to prime it :in order to draw pro- perly. Likewise, . the pump of life requires the addition of a priming substance, namely the preparedness to draw up adventure.

Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1934 ~irnsis improvement and by the end of the semester II he may be doing work that is worthy of a F A R R A G Q II first or second grade, but owing to his bad : . , start, the report that he receives at that time ~:;;;;;;======================-!! MUSIC by Rankine Hinman \.t1 Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FouNDED 1876 ~ssotiate-~. ~~~.iate iJl'e~~ ----=--= 193) (NATIONAL]'~,. .. :H''C::I: COVERAGt J93.J. might be only a third grade. That student is A toast to Dan Flinn and a sincere wish .for his speedy recovery; we've cerainly worthy of a better than the average known him for a measly eleven grade, is he not? yeaes, and if there's one white guy Likewise, another student enters college and may be fully aware .of the pace set by the Huxley l take the two as one dose). * * * President J. Edgar Park of It has been said that composers The officia:l newspape~ the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Frid~ys throughout the college year, except durmg Chrh;tmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union Coll_ege, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communicatlons to George R. Cory, J.r., Psi Upsilon House, Schenectady. ·faculty under whose guidance he has matric~ ulated. At the end o.f the fit·st six weeks when the marks are issued, his standing is compat·atively high. A false sense of over- confidence often overcomes freshmen of this variety and they then become lazy, assuming- the attitude that college is a 'snap.' For the rest of the semester he Iets his work slide, yet due to his fine start, he manages to get through with a third grade average. . . . Where are the bozos who want- ed to give hockey the bye-bye? Cast L•yes on the record to date! It's our chief glory in these cock-eyed times: ,;wimme1s inundated, doHar ·devalu- ated, basketball so-l;o, ttlition. due, weather god~a,wful, women ugly, .am- bition gone ... a lip bazoop ·for the \v hole lousy mess. * • * Wooley and Webster inform us that the \a\. is long (and only long) in Alrna Mater, apparatus, Cleo- patra, gratis, status, utimatum, etc. M:eny Mount, new opera by Howa1:d Han::;on, dir:et;:tor of l!::astman School, has premiere this Saturday after- noclii at the Metropolitan; east in- cludes Tibbett, Swarthout, Ljung- berg, Edward Johnson; we are anxwus to see what Mr. Richmd Stqkes, the librettist, has done with his Pu1 !tan theme. Wheaton was the best in ma,ny are among the few who achieve 1m- moons. We string along with him, mortality on earth, living .farever in We'll even do battle for his thesis the deathless melody of their crea- . against all comers. Anybody who , tions. Sunday afternoon we felt that quotes Aldous Huxley, even to illus- :Schubert lived in the affectiomi.te trate a point, should be given both and intimate rendition which Dr. your ears. Incidentally, Wordsworth :Tidrnarsh gave of his greatest work, is responsible for the epigram-. the \Unfindshed\ .Symphony, Crea- \Minds that ha·ve nothing to confer': tions of such tender and exquisite find Httle to perceive.\ . :beauty as the woven melodies of • * * : Schubert impose a tremendous re- . e.ponsibility upon the artist who Each time we face a sheet of col-:· plays them. Since the manuscript umn-paper, we feel a discomforting· of a work is only a partially corn- inadequacy for dishing up the cam-' plate clue to the composer's creation pus twitter :in the true wiseacre fash- the artist may reproduce it in its ion. For one thing, we never get the: pristine quality, even enrich it, or twitter; the big slice of 'our time is blemish it beyond recognition; the consumed off campus-quite neces- composer is impotent in his hands. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in\Chief Arthm· J. Katzberg .•••..••.. Business Manager c. William Huntley ........... Managing Ed~ tor Robert H. Smith .................. News Ed1tor Arnold J. Friedman ...•••........ Sports Editor Prince E. Oleson ......•......... Feature Editor Morton C. Stewart .. , ..... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD C. Hathaway M. Berger J. Woolman D. Moulton SOPHOMORE BOARD J. Anderson R. North C. Reid, Jr. V. Gilbert A. H. Steven~wn Issue Editor ..... Clemens F. Hathaway TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1934 AN UNFORTUNATE SITUATION It has been necessary for the various de- partments of the college to cut down the number of courses offered next year. Such a situation is, in many cases, unfortunate but evidently this action was necessa1·y. There is one English course, however, which will not be taught next year, which is not only important, but is also taught, as a rule, by one of the most capable men in the department. Furthermore, he is an author- ity in this field. It is highly improbable that arrangements can be made to include this course in A.lner- ican Literature on the curriculum for next year; but we sincerely hope that it will be given the following yt)ar as an alternate com·se. We do not know why it was decided that this course was the one that had to be cut out this year. field is limited. Perhaps it \vas because the It is very true that other nations can boast of a greater wealth of liter- ature, but certainly a student should have the opportunity to study the literature of his own language. There is a decided demand for this course, if not next year, then the following year. We mention it now, and we intend to mention Do the two types. of students described in the above paragraph'S deserve similar rat- ings? Under the system now in use here there is no way in which to distinguish be- tween the grades of the two students. Not only is such a system of grading a student's wo1·k antiquated, but it is boring, since he has been accustomed to it for twelve .rears before he was adequately prepared for highe1· education. The natural tendency is for each and every undergraduate of Union College to work for grades, grades which are unfair to the abilities of a majority of the students. The renaissance which is taking place in the educational plan of Union should be ac- companied by a changed system of grading the students' work. 1\Iany colleges post no grades until the end of the first semester, and then when they do so, the interest of the student in his curriculum is taken into con- sideration. sarily,,we assur(; you .. Thus we can-· Tidmarsh Mastered Schubert not slmg the patter m the manner· \' * * of former columnists-Bill George Dr. Tidmarsh brought to us the Bill Smith, Powers Clinton, Tom lovable Schubert, spontaneous, sin- Wade or even that ace of phrase-' cere, overflowing with sensuous folds We should like to juxtapose a. ologists, Coddy Hislop. of melody. His interpretation was couple of thoughts and commend • * * bro~d-flc;twing, rbich, alivefwit? 'tScbhu-t them to your critical attention. In ' bert s Vl al exu · erance o spm , u South Wind Mr. Norman Douglas And we refuse-with difficulty, never boisterousC, Unl!ke Nicolai writes that \Mr. Heard had not sometimes-to indulge in intimate Sokoloff, whose olumbla recording h . d B .. h i f t of the Symphony is otherwise splen- quite lost 1s ol nt1s ns me as personal revelations. We don't like· c'id, he did not .permit the tempo to to the fundamental uselessness ·Of to hear them from our acquaint- all art. A young fellow who, instead ances and, so, 'bowing to the Golden run away with him in the middle . portion of the first movement. Dr. uf taking up some rahonal profes- H.ule, we refuse to shove them at· Tidmarsh also avoided the pitfall of swn, talked about Cimabue and our public (Whew!) We do not be- Jacopo Bellini ... there was some- l!eve our private life contains sentimentality which is a constant thing not quite right about him.\ enough of importance to merit this danger in a number of such melodi- And in a slim volume called Plato display. Most of this self-expression ous loveliness. and His Dialogues, Mr. G. Lowes stuff reminds us of those cozy little The \Unfinished\ Symphony is Dickinson pens this: \Art love, .phil- confessionals of sophomore days peculiarly well suited for presenta- osophy, ideas, are worth more ,tban where the boy and the girl, in bated· tion on the organ. Some works, in geography or geology or trade, and tones, lay bare their souls to each their complexity, can be played with the latter have only value so far as other between dances or over a table justice only by the full orchestra. they minister to the former.\ Rather in some ice cream parlor. We wish This Symphony, however, is in some pathetic, isn't it, that most men push to remain on an objective level- respects enhanced Py an organ pres- \ art, love, philosophy, ideas\ to the the chief reason for not using: the entation. The opening subject is far periphery of their existence and first person in our ramblings. more moving when given the greater make of \geography or geology or depth of tone which the organ pos- trade\ the final end of life. In the • * * sesses; again, in the middle of the Greek sense, the means are made first movement, Dr. Tidmarsh was the ends·, the machinery is worship- We have no fiery gospel to preach able to imbue the figured theme with to you. And we cannot choose our 1· · b d th ped as a good in itself. (We wish a necu Jar eer1eness eyon e to emphasize that the thought of Mr. material to please everybody: this is reach of the violin choir which us- Heard is not the conviction of Mr. obvious. Hence we must fall back ually plays it. on one lone criterion-our own in- Douglas,) terests. If our interests do not cor- An undergraduate who works for marks * * * respond to yours, we are sorry. We can think of only one thing for you [~~1~:~:;f~:;:~:~:i::i alone is not the type who is deserving of Required Reading: South Wind to do-keep your eyes off this space. high honors-it is the one who shows an in- and p.oint CoWlter Point by Ald.ous J'. P. R. ------------~~----------------~~~ terest in his course and shows his instructor that he is trying- to profit by his course that is worthy of high credit. To this end a more extensive use of :t·esearch work should be em- Week•s Best Editorial HAVERFORD ART ployed by college instructors, for that is one Haverford, as a Liberal Arts col- way in which :1 student's interest can be lege, is gravely lacking in one field of education, namely in the history adequately gauged. and appreciation of Art. It has On the other .hand, some college men do seemed to us that Haverford, while progressing rapidly in the direction not 'find themselves' for perhaps two years. of a general education, has at the The junior year rolls along and such students same time fallen considerably be- finally learn how to study and consequently 1 hind rnany other institutions of its . ' . kind in culture and the fine arts. therr grades shllot skyward. Yet, due to m- With this thought in rnind we con- sufficient knowledge during their freshman fronted a dozen members of the and sophomore vears this type of student is barred from Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi, or Cum Laude honors at graduation. present senior class with the q ues- tion, \What do you think Haverford, !:.5 an Arts college, lacks most?\ and from eight of these we imme- diately received the reply, \A course in the appreciation of Art.\ courses as the first need, for the most part felt that we needed more lectures on current events and world problems. This field, however, is much better provided for here than eeveral others. The college, Liberal C_Iub and other organizations pro- VIde speakers at rather frequent in- tervals. The difficulty is that the students in general do not take advantage of these opportunities. For instance there is a lecture this evening on the problem in the Far East. The more support the student body gives to the lectures now being oftered, the more ready and willing the col- lege authorities will probably be to ald new courses and lectures in the future, Haverford cannot attempt to train her students to be artists, but an ap- preciation on the work of others is essential. -Haverfol'd News ---o--- Middlesex Notes We hope that the faculty will take cogniz- ance of what is lacking in their present sys- tem of grading· '1. student's accomplishments, and take proper· measures to provide Union College with a system that gives mor·e justice The need for more cultural learn- Droopy drops of wisdom drooled to all. COME UP SOME NIGHT ing has recently been pointed out by from the thin lips of the faculty many educators. Dr. Rufus Jones has repeatedly emphasized the neces- during the past few weeks, culled ;,ity of training the imagination of and collected for all you bright lit- our students, while the inclusion In· tie students: the Carnegie Comprehensive exam- ination of a large section devoted to fine arts is but another definite indi- C'ation of the trend of a modern col- lege education toward such things. The President of a mid-Western That the Concordiensis is the best it has ever been. That apparently Skidmore plays a very minor role in comparison to that of even two years ago. That in self-tlefense the faculty must fc>rm a Deadwood Club and already has done so. Doing the Town Up Orange The men who catered to the old Roman orgies would feel right at home in Syracuse this year, accounts of the Senior Ball in the Daily Orange give evidence. The best minds of the campus have been pon- dering for weeks on fancy and novel decorations, and they have some traditions to live up to! In the years of prosperity, a fraternity booth walled with solid banks of Ameri- cans Beauties (which set back each of the brothers to the tune of $25) was merely a moment's surprise. The couples will arrive in hacks and hansom cabs, and then dance to Ozzie Nelson's music. However, according to the reporter, the most thrilling si.ght is watching the brothers lead the chancellor away frorn a fraternity booth whose punch is \spiked.\ * * • In Dormitories? One of the largest collections of wild and domesticated animals in the country is kept by Harvard Uni- versity for use in laboratory experi- ments. * • 'I he Revision Epidemic An outstanding graduate of Col- gate's Education department has re- cently criticized the work done there, in prepa11ng students for teaching in secondary schools. He claims that Colgate is running be- tween giving a cultural course and a professional one, and doing neither to any great degree of perfection. this need again, because we feel that there The intramural basketball season is now a is not ontJy a definite need, but also a definite little more than half over. As we all know, desire on the part of the students for this there have been more games this year than course. has been the case in previous years. Many of the contests have not only been exciting, but the brand of basketball played has been university in a recent address made the following statement: \Art and Music are necessary for the proper enjoyment of leisure hours in Iater life, and an appreciation for them must be cultivated in college.\ Here at Haverford we are provided with the necessary courses for securing this appreciation of music, while on the other hand, definite college courses or lectures on the apprecia- tion of art are entirely lacking. That there is a great lack of expression of student opinion in Union College although there are means enough. That all cry, \More power to the carpet-baggers\. That Union College needs some place like a \cl?ffee-house\, which only students Will frequent to gab drink, and eat. ' • • How the Other Half Writes Many interesting facts about French journalism were disclosed in a lecture at Wellesley the other day. The lecturer stated that everything on the paper was controlled by the patron, or woner, who ran. it for fame and influence. The old class of JOUrnalistic chroniclers, another kind of reporter, has been superceded by the photographer, as French readers also love pictures with their murder stories. One of the common meth- ods of increasing circulation is to run editorials and articles against the government. A good journalist according to the lecturer, \must pre~ serve the faculty of being able to be astonished, and irony running through his writing will keep its popularity high.\ JlTS'fiCE TO ALL For at least twelve years before a man arrives in college he has been studying at schools where his work has been graded either numerically ot· by the Jetter system. Consequently his final grade for the school year has always been the average of the quality of his work, never showing how much he has improved, or increased his interest in the course, or vice-versa. Such is the system which Union College now employs. Take the instance of the average freshman who comes to college and takes two or three months to g-et himself accustomed to college teaching methods. Naturally, when grades are :first issued, he :finds himself with a low standing. The next period he shows a slight surprisingly good. As a rule, there have been very few stu- dents present at these games, with the ex- ception of those who have a direct interest in the games scheduled for the evening. We suggest that if you have a few hours to spare in the evening that you take a walk up to the gymnasium and see one or two of the games. We have within our reach, it is true, the Philadelphia Art Museum and many private collections to which access could easily be gained, but a museum or any number of collections are of little value to a student body if it cannot appreciate the treasures that are to be found there. We can safely say that the majority of Haverford undergrad- uates have had no such training, and instruction along these lines is certainly necessary to a \complete\ education. The most substantial step that could be taken for the education of the student body in art subjects would be the establishment of a course in the history and apprecia- tion of Art. If conducted in the same manner as the present courses in are run off at Union to appreciate the value M!lsic, the desi;ed results could cer- . . lmnly be ach1eved. Lectures on 1\Iore and more emphasis is being placed on intramural sports in most colleges. A stu- dent only has to see how the tournaments of this kmd of sport. The fact that a pleas- _great painters and their works, with 1 visits to the galleries in Philadel- ant coup e of hours can be spent almost any phia, should provide an extremely night in the gymnasium should encourage· interestin&' as yven as .valuable course of mstrucbon. undergraduates t<J go up there once in a while It Is interesting to note that in an- in the evening. swer to the above question, those who did not spea;k of art lecture.s or That the editorial policy of the Concordiensis is smelly. That keeping the Union swim- ming pool open only five hours a week; for the entire student body is a cnme. That \Home on the Range\ is an atrocious insult. T·hat about three hundred stu- dents do not know the name of the football captain, and that this is one of the most hopeful signs for the success of the Union Plan Th3;t exce~t for L. R. Long's econ?llllc_ treatises there would be nothmg m the Concordiensis. That fraternities are helpful to week-lmeed boys in their freshman 9;nd sopohmore years, and are of httle use otherwise, , T~at there are stupid students m Umon College. That Middlesex Notes is a good column. . That Middlesex Notes is an in- dlfferen.t effort. F. W., h?pes that he has destro ed no ones Illusions, but a little .Jep- per and salt now and then adds taste to the beefy educational steak * * • Strolling Players The J'itney Players, an organiza- tion of strolling play.ers, presented Goldsmith's \She Stoops to Con- quer\ at Wesleyan .last Thursday, under the sponsorship of the Paint and Powder Club. The Jitney Play- ers offer. ~n opportunity for young and amb1~wus actors to gain valu- able experience. They tour the coun- ~ry, playing in h.igh school auditor- mms and theaters; a:nd in the sum- mer they give their plays in the open, using as their stage, their famous \stage truc·k,\ the only one in existence. s.. R. c. .I ! ~ 'J r i

ers in of re- its or the the hu- but to Dr. of is in tra. far the the us- old at aily e. the of in re- for He be- and in the for of by to pre- be its iza- the one .I ! '/ THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1934 Three Sextet Downs Colgate in Rough Tilt; Primed for Hamilton Game Tomorrow ~·----------------------~----~ Fox, Hutton and J enldns Scot·e Fot· Gamet; Buff and Blue Boast Impressive Record Prospects for a victory over the. Hamilton sextet tomorrow night at Clinton have been considerably heightened ·by the fine showing of the Garnet in defeating Colgate 3-0 Saturday. To date Hamilton has de- feated Colgate 3-1, and Middlebury 3-0, two teams· that Union has a;lso overcome, and 1n addition the Buff and Blue vanquished Williams in three successive games at Lake Placid earlier in the season. The game promises to be close and C Jenkius ........... :McDonnough RW Hutton ......... Ll. W. Galbraith LW Summerhayes .......... Wheeler Referees-Donald Terry, •Colgate, and Jack Beale, Cnion. Spares-Union: Corbin, Huested, Warner, Fl'ora; Col- gate: Abercrombie, Specl,le, Aelmrson .. Scorrng First •Pel'iod~1, Union, Fox, 2 :oO. Third period~2. Union, Jenl!'ins, 11 :30; ·s, Union, Hutte>n, H :45. Penalties-Jenkins, 4 minutes: Cor- bin, 2; Williams, 2: ·wheeler, 2; Mc- Donough, 6 : Galbraith, '2. -~~o~-- Quintet to Resume Action At Rochester Saturday should Union win, it will be the first After being idle for three weeks, time since the two colleges have met on the ice. the varsity court squad will re- I S t d , th G t sume its cam.paign Saturday when n a ur ays game e arne . . . . sextet displayed snappy teamwork, It JOUrneys up to Rochester m an especially in passing, and outplayed. attempt to avenge the 25 to 21 de- the Maroon fr·om the start. Within feat handed the Garnet in the first three minute~ after the game corn- game here a month ago. The Yel- menced Austm Fox sco0ped up the . . . puclt in front of the Colgate goalie· lowJackets Will rule as favorites .be- and shot it into the net for the first cause of the previous victory and score. Following this there was a the advantage of playing on their series of rushes by both teams. ~nd home court. the play became close and exCitmg, . . . although no more scoring was done. . Coach Nit~hman. has been. dnllmg until the last period. h1s squad mtensrvery durr!lg the past few days, c0ncentratmg at- The game then became rough, and tention on accuracy in short shots penalties were frequently called and guarding. Last week the team 8gainst both sides. About the middle scrimmaged against the S. A. S. A. of the period Jenkins scored the five, a local amateur outfit com- second Union goal, which was· fol- posed of former- college and high· lowed fifteen seconds later by a· school stars. As in a similar prac- third, when Captain Hutton sent the tice tilt earlier in the season, the puck past the Maroon goalie for the Garnet held the visitors on even last Garnet tally. The remainder of terms. the game was featured by hard play- ing on both sides during which sev- eral players were injured, although none seriously. Colgate attempted eeveral last minute thrusts at the Union goal, each of which was re- pelled .before the visitors were in a position to score. ATHLETIC TICKETS Student Athletic Tickets for the second semester will be issued daily from 1:00 p. m. to 5:00 p. m. by Mr. Parks at the stockroom of the Gymnasium, upon presentation of the Bursar's receipt showing pay- ment of the Athletic Tax has been made. Pos. UNION (3) COLGATE (0) G RD I..D '\Valtllers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Billings Williams . . . . . . . . . . . . Humphrey Fox ..................... Brooke ' You buy Chesterfield cigarettes every day. You may buy them one place today and another place tomorrow-or you may buy them the same place every day. It is estimated that there are this day 769,34·0 places in this country where Chesterfields are on sale all the time. To make Chesterfield Cigarettes we get the best tobacco and the best materials that money can buy. We make them just as good as cigarettes can be made. We pack them and wrap them so that they reach you just as if you came by the factory door. You can buy Chesterfields in 769,340 places in the United States and in 80 foreign countries. • • • \~A package of Chesterfields please\ Sport Slides by Arnold J. Friedma,n :Spectators at the Union-Franklin and Ma·rshall swimming meet Satur- day night were given the opportunity to see a tankman of the first water (·beg pardon, a sHp of the tongue), in the person of Gordy Chalmers, a member of the United States Olympic squad in 1932. Chalmers had a lean and hungry look which he satiated by eating up distance in record-break- ing manner. The lanky Pennsylvanian was a trifle weak, having just recovered from a case of chicken-pox, but managed to do the HiO yard ,backstroke four seconds faster than any Union man has done in the Foote pool'. He is exceptionally fast 0n the turn, which one official pointed out just borders on the illegal. Joe Maney wandered off the straight and nar- row in the 100 yard free style event and almost submerged his F & M rival. The open ·season for ruie changing in football has arrived with gridiron stai'S of yesteryear again bemoaning the deletion of the rough stuff which prevailed when men were mountains and the flying wedge was in its ·heyday. This year, however, only one change is being seri- ously contemplated by the American Football Coaches Association. It provides that forward passes into the end I zone ·be ruled incompleted passes instead of touchbacks. At present any pass grounded in the end zone is a touchback, giving the opposing team immt>dlatl\ possession of the ball on its own 20-yard line. The proposal would aid the offense by making the carrying team mm·e free in passing. On the fourth down an incompleted pass into the end zone would permit the opposing team to take possession where the ball was last put 'into play. Should the Dmp continue to be deluged with snow at the present rate, Coach Ketz' outdoor-indoor track squad will be making time tr·ials in snowshoes. Whatever the Garnet lads do in the Mercury Meet Saturday at Albany, one thing is sure, prospects for this spring are the best they have been in the .past three years, with some of the sophomores toying around with the college records. It is quite probable that either Charley Krull or Leon Naguszewski or both will top the listed shot put mark, while \Red\ 'Burton is expected to high jump around six feet, which should win in any meet around these parts. M.A. B. .· Olympic Star Leads . F. & M .. bt Tank Win Union Drops Fifth Straight Meet as G. Chalmers Easily Smashes Backstrolm Record. m=m:mm::m;mm;;m:mm::m::mm::mmm;mmm m Intramural Basketball m m Leagues m m :::::::::mm:m:::m::::::::::::::::::::m:::::m::: Results Lambda Chi Alpha 14, Kappa Nu 12. Led by the Chalmers brothers, Phi Sigma Kappa 21, Psi Upsilon Gordon, a member of the last United 27. 'States Olympic swimming team, and: Neutrals 2, Theta Delta Chi 0 (Forfeit). Donald, a strong Franklin and Mar- Kappa Nu 27 , Delta Upsilon 40. •hall swimming team defeated: .Union's mermen Saturday night in Delta Upsilon 2, Sigma Chi 0 (For- the Foote Pool, 46 to 25. Perhaps feit). one of the best exhibitions ever seen.. Alpha Delta Phi 12, Phi Delta in the pool was given by Gordon Theta 31. \Skinny\ Chalmers when he broke· Kappa Alpha 25, Delta Pi Nu 9. lhe pool record in the 150 yard back I,AJUBDA CUI ALPHA FP FG Fts stroke. The new record set was 1:'52 Szczum's!{i eclipsing theprevious mark by four: Agiu~, g • .' .. ~.::::::::::::: g ~ g seconds. It was, however, twelve· Handall, c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 2 6 seconds slower than the I. C. A. A. Knapp, f . • . . . . . • • . • . . . • . . • u 2 4 tecord now held by Chalmers. DIDo~·eo, .f ............... o 1 2 Guy Griswold took the only Union Higa·l~ ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · O 0 0 .first place when he nosed out Joe Totals · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2 6 14 Maney and Levine to take the\100: KAPPA NU FP FGPts. yard free style event. \Boom\ Schu-. A. F1·iedma.n, g . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 3 man, who had won his event in div- Righthanrl, g .............. u o o ing in all of the four previous meets Kushman, e · · · · · • · · • ·• • . • • 1 0 1 dinped on his <me-and-a-half back 0 · :F\riedman c · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 2 4 lt d tl I t t Simon, f . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . n 2 4 somersau an consequen y os o \\'ohl, f . 00 •••• 00 .......... u u o Isaacs of Franklin & Marshall by Totals .......... , . . . . . . . . 5 12 C>ne point. The summaries follow: 22()-yard free style->Von by Geyer, F. & l\1.: second, G. Chalmers. F. & .:\I.; thinl, Oppt::Uheim, Union. TillH:i- 2 :36.3. 50-yard free style-'\Von by Coblentz, F. & M.; \el'Oild Griswold, Union: thit·rl, !:reen, F. & :\T. Time-2S.7. Diving-'\Von by Isaacs, F. & M.: ~~l·und, ~ehtunan, Uniou; thirtl, Keel!~, Union. Winning score 75.31. 440-yard free style-Won by Roe, F. & ~r. : second, D. Chalmers, F. & 1\I. ; thil'd, Stearns, Union. Time-6 :03.7. 150-yard bad< str·uke-'\\'on ·by G. Chalmers, F. & M.; second, Neese, Union: third, Squires, Union. Ttme-- 1 :52 (New Pool Record) 200-yard breast stroke--Won by D. Chalmers, F. & ~r. ; seconfl, Arger- singer, Uniou; t:hird, •Cowell, Union. Time--2 :58. 7. 100-yard free style-Won by Gris- wold, Union; ~ePond, ~Ianey, Union; third, Levine, F. & M. Time-1 :00.4. 200-yard relay-1Von by F. & M. (Coblentz, Roe, G. Chalmers, and Green.) Time--1 :48.4. Schedule Tonight-7:30, Theta Nu Epsilon vs. Beta Theta Pl. 8:30, Phi Gamma Delta vs. Phi Sigma Delta. Tomorrow--7:30, Theta Delta Chi vs. Delta Chi. 8:30, Psi Upsilon vs. Neutrals. Friday-7:30, Phi Delta Theta vs. :..<:appa Alpha. 8:30, Lambda Chi Alpha vs. Delta Upsilon. ---0--- INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL Alpha Delta Phi fraternity has entered a team in the second round of the intramural basketball tourn- ament and will assume the schedule of Delta Chi, which has dropped QUt. the cigarette that's MILDER the cigarette that TASTES BETTER ® 1934, LIGGBTT & MYBRS ToBAcco co.

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1934 Godshall Be I i eves 108 Seniors On ,the L!st U . PI H l Issued By Deans Office n1on an e ps G t St d (Continued from Page 1) OVefflffiCfi U yD. Merry, John D. Mirate, Anthony J·. Monda, William G. Neese, Harbi- Ten Pe1·cent of Nation's People Employed Directly or Indi- rectly by the Government Abilities Not Inherent .Polilical Scicnc~ Dala l\lu::.t Tic Handled Disc r i m in a t e I y Editor's Note: The following is one of a series of letters by members of the faculty con- cerning the new Union Plru: of education which will go mto effect in September. The letters were written to Dr. Ellery who has given The Concordiensis permission to reprint them. Is thi,; the smt of a statement you want cancer ning the Union Plan'? ,\mon~ a numb<'r of pos,ibilittP,. appal ent for the study of govew- ment may be mentioned, first .. the de~ it ahility of becoming acquamted with the pt inciples operative in an t ntt•t ptt:oe which dit t:>rtly employs ~ix per cent of the population of the \Cnited Shtes and indirectly engages the attention of almo6t as many more people in caparitie.~ of party wmkezs and lobbyi,-ts. This group, ( ompli>ing- in total upwards of ten per cent of the total population, ,pends ten per cent of the national income. It would sPem to be htghly impm t:mt that pr ovi-ion be made in , utr iculu for oppot tunities to study .-o Pxten\ive an institution. At't of Ohsprving Social F.ff<>ets SP<'oncl, the study of govPrnment should devt•!op the art of obset ving [•nd wPighing ~OC'tal pffpct\. defect· ing pia u\ible hut unsound argu- I ment.\ and propounding reasonable,. gerwr •tlizntinns and opinions formed in r bjPrti\'P fa,hion fhtch abilities ne net inhrr£>nt in man by divine in,-piration and mu\t be d£>vP!oped by drlibPrnte effot t. The data of Poli- tical Science mu<Jt be handled with I c:ueful di~rriminntion. It if' ><Pldom 1 1·' ;Nih!~ tn c]Pri\'P g-ivf'n pffPrt!' from Plll'ily tnwPablP causP.\ 01 to di~cern I rt C'!Nll' prof'P!'~ from cau!'le to PffE'ct. TI:•Ih<'r. effPrt.~ ncC'r UP fr·om thP in- teraction of .s£>veral causes of vary-, ine; potPnry. Throughout the study par tiC'ular pain,; mmt he dPvotrd to thO? mdhods of maintaining impar- 1 1 tiality whtch b exceedingly difficult in dbcu.:;,wns 01 inter \'iews on con- I tr o\'rr sial i\.-uPs. 1 It b nPCP.\ to C'OUn!Pract thP wi<l<'>JliP:J.d popular hnbit of com- 1 p'l'lt' .~,,u, nne<' in dealing, without 1 <hqu.llL t< flccticm, with liVPly and 1 furlll.lnlt nt 11 C'conon1ir, ~ncial nnd: ; o!itic.tl pr ob!Pm~. The only wny in 1 wluch thio o.tuution can be properly 1 uH 1 LLlcJ 1\ tluuu..,h otganized in· 1 otr uclton. It ;, onl:, by incr<>a.~ing 'b' nurnbr: of intPlligPnt, informPd, I cc,nst r UC'ltve and aggre~sive citizens. I that cffect.vc und .>Ull,factory demo- 1 l~tJ.t,c hu\ellllllllll c:..tn be zc~li.zed. 1 l'lan Adapkd tu This ThP l 'ninn C'oiiPIO!\P Plan for thO? I lntPIIPctual Actvnnc£>ment of Youth 1 i~ p'lrtirularly adHpted to promote I the facility wtth which study of gov-1 cmm£>nt may bE' undertaken. In nddithn to pt ropnfing brand baePf' of I Jmow!PdgP in thE' genE'ral field of so- I <hi Frtrnr<'.~. preliminary to ad- I vancl'd .study in Political Science in I par trcular. opportun1ty is afforded fu: mot c ,pccifk p1 t:>pawtion for the/ J.llofe<Jston of law. joumalism, and puLltc ocl Vl~e at hullle and ab1oad. 1 No lun)!;er mu:>t a ca1eer in these t.dck L.., f.H dac<'<l by dl:;ta:;teful or 1 lli!J!l ulit..tb.e Jt uJ,..;cry m untclateJ 1 . ubj< Llo. Un the cull trat y It nuw 1 Lt.·Lulllt',:, J.IU~blUlc to Ut.:vutc one'::; 1 Ulll<' tu lar cfully planned and intc-, 1:rated ~tudies. \\' I f·~ON !Hli>~HALI. f't ,.f, -.-o: ,f Pditit a! ScietH'f' 1 0 I Dmtmouth Winter Sports/ Coach to Speak Here Soon \\'inter \'ports enthusiasts in Union (',,;;..,,:, h<.n,e had unu,ual opportun- .lteo tiu, ~eat tu enjuy c:;kiing, :>nuw-~ >hceing, and snow camping. Nearly <'d)' V.tckenJ lllt:mbt:lo uf the Out- Ing Club havt> practised skiing on Patter sonvi:Ie Hill or followed skii tratls through the Rotterdam Hills. Saturday Arthur Plummer, '36 and Tiichard Angle, '37 took part in a winter carnival at North Creek in the Adirondacks, taldng places in a ~ lalrm race over a half mile course. The winning time, turn~d in by Guy fluiL\< of the General Electric Com- pany. was 58 ~erond!'l son T. Oatman, Prince E. Oleson, Ernest F. Painter, Everett S. Painter, Milton Pozefsky, Wm. M. Prest, Boris Radoyevich, John P. Roberts, Erwin K. Rockwell, Elmore C. Schuman, Milton Schwebel, Lar- man S. SherwoGd, Samuel Simon, J_ulius J. Sitney, Robert H. Smith, Fr·ank A. oqUUtlS, Jr·., Morton C. Stewart, Jr., Edward Leon Taylor, Jr., George Tellalian, Adolf G. W. Tinim, Lc.ub TI. Trl!J.!J, Ellk \V. Trombley, Gilbert W. Tuck, Henry W. Tulloch, Fvederick Turnbull, Alexander M. Turner, John R. Ward, Paul Wassmansworf, William T. Winne, Ivor P. Wold, George J. Zip- pin. B.S. in C. E. John W. Gurry, Robt. E. Kennedy, Theodore R. Mcilwaine, Belmont M. Williams, Louis H. Williams. B. s. in E. E. L. Loomis, Jr., William s. McCord, Chess Team Loses to Garlick's Present Monetary System Earl R. Arnds, Jacob A. Brey- Duncan S. McNab, Donald Bailey maier, Angus M. Brown, Elvin E. Moulton, Andrew Poggenpohl, Wil- Team; Retains Third Position Of Country Has Two Dollars Clapper, Roberts T. Drew, Harold E. liam E. Rall, Jerome S. Rosen, Ellithorn, Frank G. Gersincich, James Rotunda, Harold C. Schneid- James s. Gillespie, Joseph Horvath, erwind, Robert J. Schultz, Ralph D. The chess team drew one . (Continued from Page 1) Jr., Dorsey F. Hughes, Wm. L. Hun- Semerad, Cecil Y. Smith, Maus W. and lost two in the match pf:;-~ changes lin direct proportion to ter, Harold Strickland, Donald F. Stearn~, Jr., ~athan Stillman, Peter last Saturday evening with Dr. Gar- changes in the_ price of go!d. Vrooman. S. SzyJkowski, WU}. A. Waldron, II, licks' team. Richard Kelsey, '37 The theoretiCal ru.\J.alys1s of the B. s. in Chemistry Thornton W. Wh1pple, Joseph A., succeeded in drawing with A. Parker problem ~oes ~o~ prove tha~ the Robert Griffeth, Robert ,\V Gurry, Woolman. in a well-played end game. Richard. general pr~ce;-raismg or. domestic dol- George Moore, Samuel Silberkraus. B. S. in C. E. Passenger, '37 lost to Mr. Hugo and lar depreCJatlon c.ampa.zgn of the U. B. S. in Physics Joseph V. Agius, Jr., Sidney A. Charles Hinokley, '36 to Dan Shavor f?: governzr~nt Will fMI. Ij merely Cole John J Kuttler Kenneth G. in two very close games. The two msproves . e assump on o a c ose Joseph R. Burg, Harrison S. Sayre, ' · ' ' remaining games: Sam Simon, '34 causal relatiOn between the two ~ol- John C Seddon Larson, Leahmon Nestle, Stanley v;;, Dr. Hewlitt and J. S. Rosen, '35, lars. Ther.e ave other factors wht~h . JUNioR ULA:SS I Rockefeller, Ellwood B. Wengenroth. vs . .lt' • .l:t. ~tevens, Will be played off ar~ op~ratmg to make a dom~stlc A. B. Course B. S. in E. E. this week. Dr. Garlick's team, as prrce, r1se extr~~ely probable. rhe Benjamin A Brown Vincent A ;<,ret undefeated stands highest in the pourmg of a brll1on and a quavter PRul H RPik, Milton A. RPrgPr, · , ' E · S\hetl~\'\·Jy ct' 1 ~~~ League. The col- dollars .a month i.nto the American Robert J. C. Brearton, Ernest N. Doyle, M1lo W . .b;amoo, ug~ne 0. ~ v~,.. -~ Brown, Norman o. Chadbourne, Emerson, Kenneth N. Mathes, Ch.es- lege team has held third place for econormc system 1s a far more po- Frank F. Champ, W!'lriam P. Chrl'st- terM. Rhoades, Jr., John E. Wh1te, some time. tent factor in depressing the domes- J tic dollar than the depreciation of ian, Reynold M. Crane, Rudolph F. r. Plans are rapidly materializing for the exchange. The President has Deutl, Hugh R. Elwyn, James E. B. S. in Chemistry a radio chess match of four consul- avowedly been giving the commodity Finke, Austin M. Fox, Ore! Fried- Daniel R. Conlon, Jr., Robert L. tation games between the Pough- dollar theory a practical trial. If man, Chas. R. Frost, Jr., Malcolm Slobod, Joseph Sottysiak. keepsie Chess Club and the Schenec- the anticipated domestic price rise L. Griffing, Rankine G. Hinman, lady Chess League, of which the col- materiallizes, the credit should be Walter H. Holdridge, Marcus Hor- B. S. In Physics lege team is a member. The games given other forces than solely those witz, Seymour A. Horwitz, Wm. F. John R. Clark, Leonard Eisenbud,. will be handled at this end through operating in the theory of Dr. War- Jenkins, Homer T. Jennings, James Harry R. Summerhayes, Jr. W2GSB, the college radio station. ren. GOOD TASTJE-YOU CAN'T MISS IT Sunday afternoon the Outing Club on foot and by skiis cut cross coun- try from SchPnectady toward Burnt Hills, then followed the Alplaus Kill to the banks of the Mohawk River. If snow conditions continue to be favorable, the club will sponsor more ?kii trip.s and snow hike.s in the near future:>. An unusual opportunity will be offered to college skiiers when the Schenectady \Vinter Sports Club hr ings Otto Schniebs, Dartmouth winter sport coach, to this city Feb- ruary 24th. In the morning he will conduct a short skii trip through the Rotterdam Hills and will be glad to give suggestions to anyone inter- rl'ted. In the evening Sehniebs will lecture and show moving pictures of the Dartmouth Winter Carnival and ~kiing on Mt Wa£<hington. Direct from the Metropolitan Opera House Saturday at 1:5 5 P.M., Eastern Standard Time over Red and Blue Networks of NBC, LUCKY STRIKE will broadcast the MetropolitanOperaCompanyofNewYorkin the world PRE- MIERE of the new American opera \MERRY MOUNT.\ Luckies' £ner smoother taste comes from the:finestTurkishand domestic tobaccos. We use only the center leaves for they are the mildest, most tender leaves. And every Lucky is so round, so firm, so fully packed. NOT the top Jeaves-they•re under• deve/oped-tlleJI are harsh! In tht> meantime Hosmer Norris, local skii expert. has been giving free skii instruction every weekend to those wishing advice. Cream of the Crop \The tenderest, mildest, smoothest .,..h.oNn\l NOT tbe bottom leaves-they're i11/erior iu qua/Jty-coar·se and always sandy! '· r

to the the dol- u . erely close dol- f ~ •rl::te ar.ter ric an po- I of haB If t rise be ~ ~. I I I ;:;::: I .·.::: .~~ >:::: :=:::: I -:-: \ :::· 'I :I 1: -~ I ·:: •'· :-::· I .•.•, ~ I. Large Audi$nce · Attends Forum · \\· Condt1cted By· Dr, March On· Evoltltion Of Religion • Dr. Stewa·rt Has Been Secretary For 20 Years; To Read l\Iinutes For Fh·st Time Vol. LVIl., No. 33 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 19M PRICE FIVE CENTS M t · St b•l•ty.Walter Angell to Present ·· one ary . . . a . II . ReCital of Bach. and Yon Is Problem. Ahead For World's Nations Universal Abandonment 'Of Gold as Circulating Cur- rency Is Possible Solution Economists Disagree ·walter Angell, of Albany, wil.J give the organ recita.l Sunday after. noon a:t 4 o'clock in t'he Memorial Chapel in place of DL Elmer A. Ti'dmarsh, who is on a concert tour with the Glee Club this weel•-end. Mr. Angell, who li-ves with Dr. Tic!· ~XJ.auh, was one of his fon!ter· pti· pils, and il:l now a full-fledged con- •Cett mganist in his own right. His pwgram will inc! ude wozlts by· Bach, Marcello, Gaul·, McAzni~ and . Yoh. M,r. Angell' was assistant o1ganist Dt\valuation of Dollar Is Step to DL 'lfidmarsh at the All Saints Toward Domestic Stl'ensrth Cathedtal and the Fhst Prcsb)tet- ~ ian Chmch in Albany, arid then· studied music at C01nell, where hr received his bacheloz of mueic dt>-. By LE..\lLIE R. LONG gree. After a year's study at Pat i>. One of the very few questions on plindpally with Henzi Libe1t, or- w-hich pconomid·• ate in complet!' ganist of St. Deni:o Cathedral, hP agH'ement is the de>irability of uni- · returned· to this country as a con- vt>tsal -abandonment of the use of celt 01 -gani~t and tcachH of mgan. gold as circulating C'Utr·ency or as ----o------- a stOie of value for private accum- F R t t• Of ulation. Great Britain acted· on . avor e en lOll. . this principle when she rEturned to the gold ~tandard in 1925. At that LI.teratu.re Co.urses time, the gold of the country had become concentrated in the Bank of. England, and, the Cpn ency and Notes Act a.utho1 ized the bank to call in gold held by Jllivate .pra;on::o in any but n€giigible 1/-t:nounts. So the anti· hoar ding: legi~lation of the United Statu,;. cannot be termed Studl:'nt Councilmen Objl'ct to Abolition of Courses From Revised English Curl'iculum novel, in any ~ence of the word. __ _ Gold Fltandard .Abandonr<l At a meeting of the Student Coun- Until the ::;p!'ing of 1933, the cil Wednesday evening the motion American public could obtain gold was made and carried that the Coun- on demand at almost .any ba11k, anr'. . . gold w .. u; :;till in circulation in the 1 crl go on recor·d as favonng the re- ~orm ~f gold certificates. The ~old I tention of courses in. American and ~tock m t~~ v?-luts of lhe ,unrted , in English literature. two courses States Trea,Ul) and the Federal which the Administration has drop- RePerve Banks was Po la~ge that ped from the curriculum. The sec- V(!Y few people thought rt neces- i'etar'' Alexander Turner '34 was sary to undel'\ake concentratiOn oJ' . . \ .· • . ' . pr.ivate holding::;, and the p::;ycho- mstru?ted to w11te l~tters }? D1. logical effe·cts of.calling in private Edw~rd _Ellery and_ Dt. Harttso~ C. gold weJe feared, But banking Coffm recommen~rng the contmu- ·difficultit:s Jed to heavy internal !1nce o_f thes~ CO~)ses. . withdrawal::; of gold fwm th€ cen· pamel Fhnn,_ 34, charrman, ap- tr al institution~, and it wa:o thought I pomted a commrttee for Movmg-Up nect!lioary to abandon the gold. pay composed of Edw~rd Hutton, .tandard fur both internal and ex· I 34, Duncan McNab; 35, RobPrt h rnal pUI po<·c, at one dcp. flo fat N~r~h, '36, and J,ames DoylP, '37. a:; a fie£> gold circulation was theo-IW!lham Waldron, 3~. was then ap- J.etically dedgned .to maintain con- pomted to ~o~fer wrth tht' Bu_rsar fidcncc, it failed uttezly 'in it;:, taok I nbout orgamzmg a tax committee and cwn contrihut£d to lleighten for next year. t hi' dist111 bance. By a sn ics of I The Council approved a Prom bud- ! egulations gold has now been call- get of $1600 submitted by McNab ed in and concentrated with the and decided to leave unfilled for the mon<'(aly uuthoritie:; at Wa<hing· 1 ~emalndet· of the term the vacanq• ton. Since la~t ~pring the Ame1 ican made when DiLallo, '36, of the Soph- pE'ople have undeital,Pn gold hoard- I omore Board left College. ing on a con~idciablt• ~cale out>ide . After some discussion the Council t-heir own country. went on l'ecord as favoring the sub- Gold Stocks- ln. London stitution of a white sweater with woven U of garnet for the present minor sport a ward. Ev.rn in. ~Cll'ile couritl ies Etill on lhP gold ~tandard people havE> ac- cumulated gold St(){>ks in London. With England of.f thP gold standaJd and Englfehme·n deprived of the The value of class officers was di~cussed and will be debated in stu- dent body meeting Monday. right .to bold gold in any, but neg- o--~ ligi~lP 'amount~, ·invPstors of o~hH. P. rom Committee BeO'ins natwns ha·ve bought newly mmed I I!> gold in the Lo~don. monpy market \York On Plans for Dance and have depoe1ted 1t for safe keep- ·1 ing right whne it was bought - in a c~mntry .off gold. TJ:tis pr!'Pent!' 1 Th1ee sub-committe(s were a·p- an m~ere?tmg pamdox. mde:ed. And pointed by Charles Dain, Chairman pecuhazly £nough, whrle thP U. S. Of the Junior Prom Committee at a r.ovPinmPnt was a~tem~\lng to meeting ·wednesday noon at the thwa1t the efforts of rts crhzens to Beta Theta Pi House. The com- hoard gol<;I. r,n England there was inittee went over the budget which complete: l~dlffetence on the part was submitted Wednesday night to o.f the publ!c to the .supposed bene- t.he ~tudent council for approval. fits of holding goldand henc~- c-om-~ Ralph Seme:zad, Stanley Mower plet<\ inaction .of the author it res un- and Ray McDowell will compri:;e der a law d<\Signed to p!tevent such the dec 01 ation commit tee· Jack accumulation .. A,nother paradox is Moffett and Donald Moultbn wiil !·bat Great Bntarn, though off the take ca.re of the tickets and Dun- gold &t~ndar.d, has, ~m balance ab- can MeNab, Ri-chard Davis and so~b.ed mto ~t~ offiC.tal gold stock:s Ch·arles Dain will be on the orches- (Continued on Page 4) ha committee. l;ibrary .Exhibits Novel Book Prop Made of Valuable Bird's Eye Maple ' By WILLIAM E FERGUSON A bit of the es~ence of days .gone sermons. In 1873 Dr. Backus was by has been added to the' Unidn succeeded by Dr. Timothy q, Dar- College Libraty in the form of a ling who ·bought the bookstand backstand once owne·d by Dr. Jona- from Dr. Backus. From then on than T. Backus, one-time .pastor of. it was .handed d-own to- different .the First 'Pre-s'byl-ei:ian Church of members .of the Darling family Schenectady. The College 'has al- until it came into the possession of ways b'eeit on very Close terms with Mrs. Henry W. Darling, who pre- this Church because it wns here sented it to tpe College last week. that' mat'lJ' of tlie · Presidents of The stand iU:elf is m~de of bird's U'niort came to worship, especially eye maple to conform with the rest before the new ·Memorial Chapel· of the furnishings in Dr. Backus' was built. Also prior to this time ~tudy. This par ticuiar wood has the c·cHrtmenceme:itts of the College since become more expensive than were held there. Jnahogany. 'l'he stand is about two Dr . .Jonathan Truml;mn Eackue fe~:t in height and is triangular in c·ame to the Church in· the ye·ar · s.hape. It has a peculiar-looldng 1832 at which tim~ the Chur,ch was knob on .t-he top which aids in turn· starting a peri-od of ·comp'lete te- · ing tire stand around. It is inter- otganization. He was succee::fill as estit'lg to note that this kno'b · is is proven by the fact t'hat the !nsti•, probably not a part of the miginal tution has become one of th,e l'arg-, piece ·because of the darker colo1 est churehes in this city. 'His· sis- of the wood and its inferior worlt· ter, Miss Mary Backus, wa-s the mansh!p. Eal'ly BeliefR in Luck Which Exists Among Aborigines Not the Origins of Religion Asiatics Adopt Visions ---- -0--- --- College Glee Club Is On Tht·ee Day Concel't Toul' LPaving early this morning by bus from the Memorial Chapel, the Glee Club started on its three-day concert tout• t{} Lowville, Wat~-­ town, and Oswego. The first con- ce-rt was S<'heduled to take pla<'e tl:tis afternoon in Lowville, where the club was to \sing for its lunch,\ Tonight's concert in Watertown, will be follow~d by a dance in the high school, after which the mem- bers will stay overnight in private homes in the vicinity, Tomorrow morning Dr·.·Tidmarsh, the director, and his troupe will pro- ceer to Oswego, Manager James Horan's home town, to gi've a third concert at the Oswego High School in the .evening.. :Pailein'g· to the music of the Garnet Goblins will conclude the official activitie_s of the week-end trip. Appearing on the program with the Glee Club will be the recently organized. ocarina trio and the string quar.tet. Further variety will be added to the pr.:ogram by a group · of solos by Herbert Hausser, stu- dent leader of the Glee Club, and by a comedy sltit, which pr~mises to be unusual. The club w1ll .re- turn t() the campus Sunday after- noon. NOTICE person who started the Annual The gift will be used for display Alumni Luncheons and conducted purposes. At present there iS a Will the person who took the them petlionally for many yeais. collection of books on America.n new brown hat. with Nusbaum's Dr. Backus was· the original Architecture on exhibit which will· trademark; from :Ua:iley Hall last owner of the ·booltstand. He 1,1sed it be followed· by •a collection of books Saturday morning, kindly return ae a book prop. for holding his ref- on Abraham Lincoln some time same to W!liiam Bennett· at the erence bOOk$ while wri:tlult out lli::> ne~t week. Beta. Theta Pi Hl>use? OA:LENDAR Tomorrow Daily Assembly-Speaker, Prof. W. H. Ketz on \Ab1aham. Lin· coin.\ Sund-a.y Chapel-Rev. Donald B. Aldrich, Rector, Church ·of Ascension, New York City. 01-gan Recital-Walter Angell. · Monday . Student B()dy Meeting, Old Chapel 10:00 a. !'n. League of Eva!'lgP!ical Students Meeting, Room 5, S. S. S. C., 3:30p.m. . Philomathean Society Meeting, Old Cha·pel, 7:30 p. m. Held Office Twenty Years Dr. Morton C. Stewart Has Been Secretary of Local Phi Beta Chapte1· Two Decades Intends to Resign To Give Up p()...,t in Order That Young£'1' Man BE:' Elected Student Mourners Danced Gleefully Around Grave of\lnactive' By VEDDER M. GILBERT Back in 1868 wme of Union's stu- dents thought the best thing they could do for the _college would be to bury the truatees. That noble body of men under the presidency of Hon. Ira Harris had taken over the conttol of ,the administration when the lovable but weak Dr, LaUrens Perseus Hickolt resigned his post as presi!lent in '68. The tragedy of Harri~' rejgn, was that he and his colleagues allowed' the standards of the college to grow Iax, the administr•ation to 'become financially unsound., and the Board of Trustees to neglect choosing a new president. The undergraduates of '68 were well versed in bui'ial rites for they had long had practice .in the yearly interment of c·alculus and mechan- ics. Therefore, when on· a Septem- ber day the boys called a student body meeting to decide what should ''b~ done w.ith -the sleeping trustee.s, a funeral was the natural sugges- tion. 'Two hundred students clad in sheets and· pillow cases g·athered on the campus at 10:40 the evening of September twenty-eighth. At eleven the ·procession through the town began. The Dorpians enjoyed a most impre!\sive sight. The cortege of ghastly figures carrying torches included a two-wheeled hearse drawn by one horse and bearing the funeral relics; six students with a wooden board rep1·esented the Board of Trustees before their death; and thte Schenectady Brass Band pl-ayed. a funeral dirge. As the marchers, corning back from town, .passed through Blue Gate the Chapel bell tolled a parting knell. The freshly dug grave was situated a few feet from the foundation of the Nott Memorial <Hbrary), 'The s·tudents grouped themselves arounq the grave. W. E. Mapes '70, the chref orator, pa·id a few tributes to the departed, and· the mourners placed toltens of affection upon the flesh g1ave. A hea.d.stone was e1 ected bearing the 1nscrlption; \To t-l)e memory of the Trustees of Union College, who died of inactiv- ity,\

Two ~irnsiS \A 'C.'a11Sa Per sa Pal·o/8 A ,qsai\ FouNDEil 1876 THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1934 valuable when they were in college. Both the course in American Hterature and the survey course would be ·a m0st de- sirahle pair to be kept in the curriculum. The survey course could be kept without any ad- RANDOM OBS.ERVATIONS ' I EASY ON THE EYES II By : · 000 .Speaking of hig·her . education, S •Jd·ney Dava·d· .. Markman • .t ,peculiar problem recently con- . fronted two varsity basketball play• 1!;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=;;;;;;===========-.====;;;:;;;===::!1 ers at C. C.~- Y. They had to ditional expense.; and we sincerely believe ,. · . t·ake an examination .in a certain gl\s~odattd @ • -· • - --Of ~?,iatt ~~SG -...,.-..; l9) ) {ji~DNA~- COY£!!!~!) 19]4 ;:- The official newspaper of the students of Union College~ Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring 1·ecesses. ~ course. If they got t<Jo ·high a . that .the American literature course should In the fourth act of The LoweJ . Three thingE tranquilize the mind: grade, they would automatically Depths by Go:rkl (it's in the li· of man: Mel'ody, scenery, and' earn enough credits to gr-aduate.; if be offered next year on the grounds that it· brary > Sahlin airs his views con· sweet odor Three things develop' they got ~ 00 . 1 ~w a grade, they . · . . . would be mellg1ble. By sheer gen- Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered a:t the Schenectady Post Office as Second Clas::; Mail Matter· Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; deHvered anywheve in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union ~ollege, Schenectady, N. Y. All other commumcations to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon House, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in-Chief .Arthur J. Katz berg ..••..•... Business Manage1· C. William Huntley, , •• , •• , ... Managing Ed~ tor Robert H. Smith .................. News Ed1tor Arnold J. Friedman ..•.•• , .•.•..• Sports Ed~tor Prince E. Oleson ...•.• , .•..•.... Feature Ed1tor Morton C. Stewart .•..•... Circulation Manager C. Hathaway M. Berger JUNIOR BOARD J. Woolman D. Moulton ~OPHOMORE BOARD R. No I th C. Reid, Jr. would be a .distinct advantage to any student cerning lies. Think about it! \. · the mmd of man: A fme house, E' ius, both men s:ucceeded in remain- He- ,did not tell them Hes, but lied handsome wife, and elegant furni-. ing eligible. LOng live the credit \vho might desire to elect it. TIME FOR ACTION $ * .. out of sympathy, as the devil tur.e. {Berachoth, folio 57, column .. system! knows. T·heie arc many ,people who 2). lie for brotherly .!>ympathy's sake,· . : 000 Speaking of basketball players, ... I know I have tead about it. These thiEe Will never see hell:: a Boston }}aper ·has inven1ed a hiqk He whQ is purified by poverty; he name for them to go along with They 1ie so. beautifully, with such who is purged ·by a painful flux· puck-ohasers, llill-and•dalers, and spirit, so wonderfully. We have and he who is hauassed by impor:: ~o on. It is. \strin·g·swishers.\ such soothing, such conciliating • • lies .•.. And there are lies which· tunate creditors; and some say, he • \Ff Winter comes, can Spring be far be also who is plagued with a terma· 900 Some day we intend to investi- - justify taking the anvil away, and t 'f <Eiruvin folio 41 col- gate the cor·relation between skiing hind?\ \tVith spring· comes the first pre-sea- the masked hand of the toiler . . . gan wt e. ' ' and the use of profanity. In New which brings charges against the umn 2 ) · ElnJ5l:and theie is an mganlzati()n son football practice to start the foundations t · r kn th 1· Thet e ate three who\e life .is nc • .>H.tClally named the Stem-Like-Hell s at.mg · · · · · · ow ese tes . . ' , . 3ltl Club, and Dat·l-mouth's slti for the 1934 team. And with spring practice .. , He who has a timid heart . . . hfe: He who hves at another;, ::ouise on Mount Moosilaulte, N. H. or ·lives at another's table, should table; he Whose wife domineers is named Heirs Highway. comes the problem of satisfactory coaching. One of the contributing causes t<> the poor shmdn.g made by the Union team on the gridiron last fall was the lack of a reg-ular line coach. lt is scarcely necessary to point be lied to ... it gives him courage over him; and he who suffers bod-: • • * ... puts a mantle on hils shoulders ily affliction. Some say also h£: 000 Mr. Carl H. Getz who has ... but he who is his own mastet, who has only a single shirt in hi:o · dug ~p the history of i~e hockey, is who is independent, and lives not wardwbe. (P'sachim, .folio 32, col-, ~onvmced that neither the Indians from sweat of another's brow . . . umn 2) · nor the French Canadians inventeq · the sport, but that It oiiginated what .are lies to him? The lie is A maEter is bound to r·ehearse a when some field hocltey players in the t eligion of set vant .and master lesson to his pupil four time:::. Montreal in 1879 decided· to make .. , the t.Iuth is the inhelitance of <Eiruvim, folio 54, column 2). their game a winter as well as a out the necessity of having a line coach, for free men!\ .mmmer sport. Very well, but who Rabbi Altiva says .he who manieE invented· field hockey? not even the smallest colleg-es, but even pre- paratory and public high schools are provided with these assistant coaches. No one can Wisdom hom the Talmud a woman not suited to him violates * * * five precepts: <1) Thou shalt not ()00 Last week deserves to go down avenge; (2) thou shalt not beat a. in Schenectady histor·y as the week grudge; (3J thou shalt not hate th:o,. when a movie house showed two J. Andell.lOn V. Gilbert A.. H. Stevenson Issue Editor .......... Joseph Woolman · expect the head coach of a team to take com- plete charg-e of a squad of forty players, teach them new plays, blocking, tackling, and Pieces of mon€y given in charity ~lwul<l not be counted over ·by twoE, but one by one. (Bava Bathra, folio 8, column 2). b h · h ) th h good films on one program: \By · rot' er m t Y heart; <4 ou s alt Candlelight\ and \Counsellor-at- love they neighbor as thyEelf; (5) Law.\ :He who .elandezs, he who receives and that thy brother may live with • * • sland-er, and he who bears false wit- thee. For if he hates her he wishes 000 If you've seen or read the ness against .his neighbor, deserve she wete dead, and thus he dimin- Princeton riot called \She Loves Me to be cast to the dogs. (P'eachim, ishes the population. <Avoth she! Not,\ you'll recall the references to FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1934 PERHAPS IT COULD BE ARRANGED It is the opinion of a. number of students that the course knmvn as the survey course in English literature, ·which was formerly conducted by Professor BNtmnd M. Wainger who is at present doing research work at Cornell University, is one of the most valu- able com·ses that is offered by the English department. This course will not be offered next year. running the ball; point out individual weak- nesses, and keep his eyes on every man in scrimmage. One coach cannot possibly do all that properly and at the same time give needed attention to the linemen. The obvious result is a team much handicapped by the laclc of sufficient drill. Morale breaks down, defeats pile up, and the season is a failure. The tale of woe does not end with simply \a bad season.\ It goes one step farther- athletic department finances suffer a severe breakdown. There are two possible solutions to the pt·oblem. One is to get a seasonal coach who the movie concet n named M-G-M. folio 118, column 1). Rabbi Nathan, chapter 26) Well, last week Metro-Goldwyn- Of two that quarrel, the one that No calamities even bdall. the Mayer paid $30,000 for the movie fir!!t gives in shows the nobler na- wmld except Euch as ate brought rights to the play, and from now on the actm s I efer to the company as ture. lKethuboth, folio 71, column on by the ignmant. CBava Bathra, N-C-N, which doesn't fool anybody 2). folio 8, column 1). but shields the feelings of the mag- ..:_ ____________________________ nates. DRAMATICS By THOMAS S. BROWN The Civic Playets of Schenectady are to be commended for their cur- rent pr e~entation and their choice of the play, actors, and settings. the power of the college man to treat. The Senate has disinteg.rated with the disintegration of College Body .\!pilit. The Senim Hon01ary Soci(ties have long since ceased to serve any purpose ·but a social one. The halEinities have the effect of dividing college thought rather than promoting it. The Cardinal is an effective force in the forming of Gpinion, but cannot he .br'Ought to bear upon immediate Eituation.s. • * * 000 Anyone interested in watching a college president slowly buried alive might rl'ad the at ticle on Glenn Frank, \the Gieat Gliberal\ in the Februaty American Mercuxy. . .. .. 000 The death of publisher Double- day just after the appearance of Sinclair Lewis's new novel reminds us of the remark attributed' to Lewis; made to Doubleday just after Lewis had switehed from Harcou1t, Brace to Doubleday, Doran: \I like you, Doubleday, you're so darned commercial!\ • • * .. Up to Lhi:s year, a sophomore ha.s been re- would have as his sole duty the coaching of quired to choose one course from tht·ee the line. Such a position would require a options in English. Next yeat· only one Eng- pt•obabl.e salary of $1,000· for the season. The lish course will he offered to sophomores. other possibility, the ideal solution, is to pro- The survey course is one of Lhe two that cure one man to coach the football line in the have been eliminated. fall, swimming in the winter, and lacrosse in 'The pJ.ay, written by John Balder- ston ()f \Dracula\ fame, is an at- tempt to project the spirit of Peter Standish, a 1928 American, 'back inio the year 1784 when his name- Ea.ke and most distinguished an- cestGr, also an Ame·ric·an, first vis- ited the ancestral home of the Stan<i'ish~Pettigrew family in Berke- le;y Squat e, London. The ·part of Peter StandiEh is playey by our own J. F. Bagster- Coliins and is well supp01 ted by a car,elfully selected cast. Mr. Bagster- Colli.ns' ·part requires an actor of no mean talent, and he has inter- preted it sltillfully. It is· clear, then, that the Argus should take it upon it!1el.f to give voice to the best student thought on matters which have occasioned thought, and to talte the leadership in stating an opinion in matters which have not. -W.,s1eyan Argus 000 A few more s·atires as hilarious as \Mandoa Mandoa!\ by Winifred· Holtby ought to sink the notions of Glorious Em-pi:re and the White m N 0 0 !!: Man's Burden miles deep in ridi· ·~:! 0 f e 5 n U r !!i cui e. Shades of the living, yet dead , !!! Rudyard Kipling! :K;;;;:;;::::~::.::u~;;::::::::::::::::mi.. ~~~~~!!!!!!IG!!!!!!N~O!!!!!!T!!!!!!U!!!!!!S!!!!!!. ~ Check and Double Chl'-ek MUSIC by Rankine Hinman While this English litemtme course has the spring, with a probable minimum salary The play itself is quite fantastic, and the dramatist does not attempt to clear up the matter of changing the time a couple of centuries. It is somewhat difficult to classify the play for it is neither fantasy nor straight drama, but an artful combination of the two. To speak of It as fantastic drama is to appear to ignore its finer qualities, its delicate and most appealing spirit- ual realities. never been chosen by a large gToup of sopho- of $2,000. A regular paid coach of this sort would be a panacea for present weaknesses which are harmful to the college in more ways than poor showings at athletic con- tests. mores, nevertheless, there always has been a small group of second year students in the course. A number of juniors and seniors have elected the com·se. Two years ago, there were between t\venty-five and thirty students in the class. It is hm·d to understand why a course con- taining such a wealth of valuable matedal has been dropped from the curriculum. Why could not one section of the regular sopho- more English cour.se be eliminated, and the survey course put back in its place? We ate told that the dropping of this course is a matter of economy. If this is the only :rea- son, the method of bringing the course back which is suggested above certainly involves no extm expense. Not only is this course one which is found in the curricula of almost any representative arts college, but Professor Wainge.r happens to be one of the most capable instructors in the English rlepnrtment. We- are convinced that juniors all(\ :senwrs ::;hould have the opportunity of studying under him. We know definitely that there are some upper classmen who were looking forward to taking It is time now to do everything possible to solve the problem, before budgets and appro- priations for the following academic year are determined. WORTHY IMPROVEMENT After a number of years of utter confusion in the matter of giving hour exams, the fac- ulty has at last taken the simple step of pl'O- viding for a permanent schedule for such tests. A student cannot do sufficient justice to himself no1· his education if he is forced to 'cram' for two or more exams in the same evening-. No matter how much attention one pays to his daily assignments, he must review as much as he c~n the night befor.e the test, and this process constitutes 'cramming.' The costumes and properties on the stage are judiciously chosen. The directors of the piece are to be complimented· despite the fact that the action in certain places seems to lag a bit. The play is well worth seeing, and ptoviqes a good· ~venings enter- tainment f'Or those who wish to see drama pro:perly produced and in- telligently acte<l. For those who are not interested in the more subtle side of the pJ.ay there ill enough s11Iface humor supplied to ·malte it intere~;ting. I might even mention that. co.ffee and cakes. are ser-ved between acts II and III. Tickets· for this evening's and to- morrow evening's productions may be o'btained at the box offioe at a special student price of fifty cents. Week's Best Editorial Under the revised system one may have to LEADING STUDENT THOUGHT take hom· exams for four or five days in a h · 1 J'k ] h h ']1 h '!'he Argus is primarily a student !'OW, ut 1t iR E'SR 1 e Y t at e W1 e har- newspaper; it is constituted as the assed by the difficult task of premlring for offleial undergraduate paper of the .t\\' campus, and out of a budget of IDOl'e than ()llE! exam in the same evening, $4,225, the under.graduates contrib- ute <>r procure some $3,500. If for Both the faculty and adnlinistl~ation are no other reason, the undergraduate d ' t t all bl t natnre of the paper should be as- en eavormg o mee reasona e reques s sur·~tl. ·bllt w\ fllel that by winning one of his own elective courses next yea1· .. for improved methods in teaching, and we the nspect tlf the stut111nt l:)ody the Argus <Jan fill a want that has !on~ ~oth of these courses have been dropped. feel that revisions made in the schedules for been felt on the campus. b f ' · t d ts d th There has been no way In which To go still further, we can produce alumni who would rate this English literature course a num er 0 engmeermg s t1 en an e the best student opinion could be hour exam sohedule are only two instances bro11ght before the c61lege in the past. This column has been weak- of their cooperation. The students of Union enecl by devotion to unimPQrtant or very highly if they should lJe asked to name College should feel g1·ateful for that attitude. ~£o~~~~s:~d'~~t~i.~~~\P:!:rr~;~~~ the courses which they considered the most attitude. teme which do not bear d.irectlY.· on f\'£!!le)'l4Jl. a.n4•. wJlJcb' m-e .Wt wJttun. A petition signed by 500 famous educators has been sent to Presi- dent Roosevelt asking for financial aid for needy colleges and univer- sities and their students, * * * Why We'1·e Here \A libeml education fits men to help humanity,\ President Harold W. Dodds of Princeton University, said last week in a speech defining present day education. * • * Some Pun An anti-pun society has been or- ganized by students at the Stevens Institute of Technology in an effort to deal with advocates of what ill called \the lowest form of humor.'' * * * Reeipt·ocity IN eglected co-eds at Hillsdale, Mich., College, in writing the col- lege daily, suggest that men at least make 1eturn dates when invited -by a girl to a party. * • * Ph)'ISical Economy Conver~e College turns out some great thinker.s. One of the intelli- gentsia of the institution has de· cided that \Because I ltnow ·that sleep wlll make me healthy, I shall not get up for brealt.fast.\ * * * Delicate Compllments Six members of the Iowa State College faculty have been named directors of three banks in the vi- cinity of the college. * * * Spell nlore, Eat Less Oklahoma A. .& M. College stu· dents .proHt by each other's. mis· takes.. Students misspelling words are fined a cent apiece, the pro· ceeds of' which go towar·d a cl!i.s'S banquet at the end of the year. Walter Angell, who will give the weekly organ recital next Sunday while Dr. Tidmarsn is away with the Glee Club, will ·be remembered for his share in the two piano selec- tions at the Christmas -carol eervice and for .his rendition in :morning assembly with Dr. Tidmarsh. of Tchaikovslty's \Flower Waltz.'' On the several occasions when he has played in Memorial Chapel, Mr. Angell has displayed a style that is fresh and easy aln\ost to the point of abandon. With all the vigor of youth he possesses the ability of a much older musician, The program which he has. selile- ted includes several numbers with which Memorial Chapel audiences are unfamiliar, among them \Fan- F1are\ 'by the Belgian organist, Jacques l.Jemmens. \Queen. of Peace,\ which is the first move- ment of a new Symphony by Guy Weitz, Honorary Organist at West- minster Cathedral, London, and· \Dreams\ by the· American· com-· poser, Hugh McAmis. Marcello's Psalm XIX Mr. Angell will O<pen his recital with Marcello's Psalm XI;X, \The Heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament s.howeth •his h'andiworlt.\ Aithough iittle known to the musical. layman, Mucello it occupies a prominent position in· t,he history of early eighteenth cen- tury Italian music. A Venetian of noble bh th, he held several govern• ment positions and was ai one time ? member of the Council of Forty. He led a wild youth but ·became more sober in later iife, when he • • \' composed \one of the finest produc- (Nationa]) Socialist Comment& tions in musical literature,\ his N·orman Thomas, Socialist, told a. \Fifty Psalms,\ origin-ally wz.iHen. gatheting in New Yorlt recently for voices with shing obbHgati and that schools in this country had figured 'basses as accompaniment. been \shitilized\ by the I emoval of He exerted .a C()nsidem·ble influence cop.troy~rsial subjects. on other composers. Rossini has ~ ~ * llorrgwflp Qnf! of thfl lljost p.rem!- Could You Pass? nent thgmes frQm tliQ Ovf!rture ·to Students at Fiotlda State College the 4 'Sieg~ of Cor.inth\ note fpr note for Women must take an examina- from Malcello's Psalm XXI. !ion on the college government. More famUia.r numbers on the Those failing the test are confined progtam include MacDowell's \'l'o a. to ~he campus fol' two weeks, after Wild Rose,\ Stil\lghton's 4 'Withln a Whtch they may take a retest In the Chines~, Garden,\ tile \Pili!rlms' subject. CHorus from \'f~Jnn:hall.llllr;• 1 a•n4; -Nl.lloo14W pqli.eMJIMo llr•; ~iwe~ works lly BJJ.~b; ;{ I \ I i :I ..

ion, lay• to a. ally if .. edit and iing ski . H. has y, is in a two \By the s to ovie on of inds to just rom day, ious of the vice of On has Mr. is of a of GUy and cltal 'The God •his lo it in cen. of me he hls and ha,s ~o note the a a 3'n4; if I \ I I ' . ' THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1934 Three Five Union Teams Prepared To ·Meet Rivals Tomorrow ~-------------------------- Sextet To Meet Mlddlebury Runners in Albany Union Natators Ready For r~mB~!:~fa;,{;~~:~~!~ Team Here in Ret1lrn Game For Mercury Meet Trinity Tankmen Tomorrow BROOKLY; Feb. 8 (Special to ~ . Krull to Be Entered in Three --------------e> ____ The Concordiensis).-Thomas Pat- -------------- Dash Events; Turner and F. . R h t Trinity Team Includes Coit, rick Finegan, '33, has enrolled in the Union Lost to HamiltouOutnt_ G·a·rne-t' ·.·swordsmen . IVe Ill . oc es er February-September class of the Waldron in High Hurdles Dickerson, Mowbray, Mot- Brooklyn Law School (St. Lawrence Wednesday, 2 to l, in Game •11 F R t C t t To 1\/l,lllet WI'. t\ams or e urn on ·es ten; Four Hard Men to Beat University); he will graduate with With Two Overtime Periodw lT.Ic; . three other Union alumni as mem- Although the extended cold spell After losing to Hamilton College, 2 to 1, in the second over-period of a fast and· exciting game Wednes- day, the varsity hockey sextet ie out to defeat Middlebury tomorrow at 2 o'cl<Jck on the General Electric rink. Eal'lier in the seascn Union nosed out the Vermonte-z€, 1 to 0 but since then the Middlebury sex- tet -has improved gteatly. The Maroon has defeated Mas.s. State; New Hampshire, and Colgate, and is· certain to give the Garnet sextet a stiff battle. In the game with Hammon Wed- nesday both teams displayed a fine brand of hockey, and in the first peliod neither team was a;ble to scm e. Af·ter about 8 minutes of the s·eeond period had ela.psed Captain Hutton sent the puck home for the Garnet's lone t•ally, which was equaled shortly afterwards when ca,ptaln Edwatds netted the puck for the first Hamillon scme Throug-hout the 1 emainder of the seco1;1d and thit d pe1 iods the scm e remained tied·, neither sextet bdng able to ·break tl~rough the other's defense, which nec~sitated the playing of two 10 minute over-peli· ods. The play on -both sides ·be- came a series of desperate attempts to scot-e and finally with only a few seconds of play left in the second over-period, Edwards once .again pierced the Union defense to scme the wlnnin•g goal. Bergman Returns Hugo Ber1gman, who had been laid up with a. broken hand, was back in the line-up at right wing, and playe;d a fine game, as did Captain Hutton and Jenkins in the forwa1·d wall. While Fox, Williams and Walthers were strong holding down the defense. The summary follows: Pos. HAMILTON UNION C Woodin ............. Jenkins LW Collins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hutton RW Ferry ............. Bergman LD Smith ................... Fox RD Edwards . . . . . . . . . . Williams G Scott .............. W'!llthers Scoring: Hamilton-Second peri- od, Edwards 19:58. Second over- time, Edwards, 3:55. Union-Second period·, Hutton, 8:19; Spar\es; Union, Summer·hayes, Huested, Flora, Cor- bin. Hamilton, Hatfield, Doig, Mon-tgomery, Gould, L. C. Smith. Penalties, Union, Jenkins 3, Covbin, Fox, Williams. Hamilton, Doig, Woodin, Edwards. Referees, Ro'b- ex t Williams and R. V. Sherman. Final Dean's List Honol's 140 Under g 1· a d u a t e s (Continued from Page- 1) Theodore H. Wilmot, Benjamin J. Wilson, Richard L. Woodruff, Mor- ton H. Yulman, Merton L. Zubres. B.S. in C. E. Michael E. Fiore, Albert H, Stev- enson. B.S. in E. E. Edward H. Bastedo, Arthur H. Bullard, David B. Cadwallader, How- ard G. Earls, Charles W. Hinckley, Jr., Charles M. Krull, Jr., Willis B. Plummer. B. S. in Chemistry Kenneth J. Frederick, Gustav F. :IJalll'!tJ:()m, I.Ierman :0. Kl\!lg!'l. Freshman Class-A. B. CoUI'SC Burns F. Barford, Arlington E. Baxter, Donald H. Baxter, Fay B. Begor, William Boyd, Kenneth N. Brown, James A. Carroll, Jerome L. Cohen; Saul R. Collen, George C. Cummings, John C. Davis, William F. Doney, John B. Dowling, Jr., Stuart J. Eisenberg, Fred Feldman, Donald M. Fenton, Joseph A. Field, Jr., Theodore W. Fox. Monroe Froehlich, Jr., Frank B. Gatchell, Jr., John Ellis Glen, Jr., Robert J. Glennon, Jr., William A. has held . up the tra. 1 ·n 1 ·ng of the bers of the class of 1!}36, William R. Z b cl M · t C Yellowjackets Defeated Union Tomonow afternoon the varsity R LaFI 8 f d K d ·u res lUl · Ol'l\ISOD 0 Om· squad, Union will enter eleven men swimming team wiU again attempt · ure, an or anzer, an pete in T\'VO E\'ents Each in seven of the events at the sec- • Here Last Month, 25 to 21, to break into the winning column Joseph Saidel. B t F t G I E t d when they meet Trinity College in All b t th 1 tt tt d th n At Williamstown Tomorrow ond' annual Mercm·y A. C. games · · U as :.-arne · S :.~X pee e the Foote Pool. Union's nata tors u e a· er a en · e mor - scheduled to take place at the Al- _____ will enter the pool after a stren- ing sessions of the school. La.Flure bany Armory tomorrow. Coach uous week of preparat-ion deter- is at present the holder of the Union Wilford H. Ketz stated that as a After a three week period with· mined to avenge the defeat suffered College Club scholarship. Applica- For the fir·st time in histo1·y Un- ion Colleg-e 'illlill present a fencing team in action when the swords- out a game, -the va.rsity basl1etj>all at the hands of last year's strong result of the cold weather the r·un- team will again swing into action Blue and Gold aggregation. tions for this scholarship are now ners have been held up in their tomonow night for the !aPt section Four letter men have returned to being r·eceived by Herman Schierloh, efforts to get into good shape in of their scht>dule, when they will the Ttinity squad and have shown president of the club whose address men, under the guidance of Mr . Kurt von F'<>rstmeyer, will travel to Williamstown to meet the Wil- . travel to Rochester to meet the top form in the meets to date. Mow- · h d 1 preparation for the meet. Rochester five in a return engage- bray, swimming in the 5 ()..yard free is: RIC ar son Hall, 375 Pear Iiams College fencers tomorrow af- ternoon at. Z: :30 o'clocl{ in the La- This break ·in the weather is un- ment. · style event against the Coast Guard Street, Brooklyn. The scholarship is fortunate since the squad will face Only eight men will make .the metmen, established a. new pool available to a graduating member of strong opposition in Sylacuse, Col•· trip with Coach Nitchma.n. All of recotd when he covered the dis- the class of 1934. these men will see action against tance in 25.3 seconds. The 220 and selle gymnasium. gate, Yale, and several of the lead- Rochester, who earlier this year 440-yard races will be taken care of Only five Garnet men will see ing athletic clubs of the Metropoli- took the Garnet boys- into camp by by Motten who has been undefe-ated action in the seven events, with tan district who are sending rep- a 25 to 21 score, after a nip and this year. The 150-yat·d back sti oke Captain A1 :Morrison and Merton tuck <battle. The Yellowjackets is ably swum in slightly over two Zubres competing in two events. resentatives to the games. wHI have the advantage of playing minutes -by Dickmson, while Coit Monison -will engage in sabre and Krull in Three Events on their own -court. and with the splas•hes a·bout in the .breast stroke. epee bouts, while Zubres will enter remembt·ance of their eadier win. Defeated Coast Guard the epee ami 'foil events. Bob Slo- Charley Krull will be entered in· Samt> Union Lineup bod· and F'I•anlt Champ each will be Lhe thirty-five, fifty-five, and two in a foils bout, while Stuart Rogers hundred yard dasiles in which ev- Union's Elatting line-up probab!J will be -the other sabre man. t:nts Union is allowed only one man. will include Semuad and Milano at First of Seiies Captain Alec Turner and Bill Wal- fo1ward with Waldron at centet. dwn, both seasoned veterans, will Captain Dow and Moffrtt will fill The meeting with Williams, whi'ch compete in the fifty-five meter the gua1 d bet ths. T·he other three like Union has ·a team that is not high hurdles. Waldron will have men who will be ready for action considered as a sport in the college, another chance to run against the. ate McDowell, Rotunda, and Smith is the first <>f a home and home man to whom he ran second in. this In the last game with Rochester, series. The foil bouts will consist event last year. Milano, Waldron and Dow were the of three matches with the winner only men who seemed able to lo· in each event being the first to In, the high jump Union will have cate -the ba~ltet, these three scar· score five -to-uches. Thet-e will be thtee capable men performing in ing seven of the eight Garnet field no time li.:rriit In any of the events, Turner, who won first place in ev- goals. Epee, which. is the most difficult ery meet last spring, Burton, who Coach Lou Alexander of the Yel- to handle, cC>-nsists of three touches has done six feet one and seven- eighths inches, and Shields. Don lowjack~ts probably will ~:tart· the to win, while seven touches are Moulton will run in the four hun- same five that st-arted here on necessary ·for victory with the dred meter event. In the eight hun- Januaty 13. Sarney Soehner and sabre. dred meter race, Ross, who did very Al Warner will •be >at forward, Competing In two events is an well last year, and Brockwehl will with AI Spaiches as reserve. Russ \ironman\ ta.sk, but both Mot-rison be entered. Craytor, whose two baf!kets and a and Zubres, the two outstanding foul at the end of the game defeat· members of the Garnet team, will Gottschalk and Bastedo, who dis- ed Union last time, will be at cen- attempt to score against Williams tinguished themselves in cross- ter. Captain Geddes and McCulley tomorrow in the four bouts between country last year, will compete in are the Rochester guards. Red them. Viz·gil Sagar, another mem- the fifteen hundred meter race. B!owe1s, who sco1ed seven Yellow· ber of the team will be unable to Naguszewski will be entered in the jacket points against Union, may compete, with the result that zu- shot put in which event Coach Ketz start in the line-up, but it is more brel:l has t.wo. bouts before him. expects the meet record to be bro- likely that Alexander will ~ave him ken. until the middle of the game. Ep&e is Dueling Sword The Union practice sessions this New London's Coast Gua1d A0ad- emy was decisively defeated by Trinity in the Trowbridge Memorial Pool at Hartford 54 to 23. The Academy men 8Ucceeded in taking ·but <>ne first place during the meet. \Boom\ Schuman and Keens, Union divets, have been practicing daily in an eff01t to perfect their performanc€s. This event is notably the weakest in the Blue and Gold fine-up, the highest number of points 1 oiled up by 'l'r:inity in the diving event ·being 65.5. The Garnet ~quad will consist of the same men who swam against Fr.anklin and Marshall last week. CHARLES' Formerly ED'S The Official Union Colleg-e Barber for the past 24 years. Ask any upx>er classmen, they know. 11 operators. Schenectady's sreat- est barber. COB. STA.TE A.ND B.ROADW A.Y ----01--- MOHAWK SCHOOL GAMES Tomonow night in the Alumni Gymnasium the Mohawk School basketball team will play a doubl~ header, meeting Woestina High School an-d· the Beta Theta Pi fra- ternity fives. The game with the Betas will start at 7:30 o'clock. Union College students will be ad- mitted upon presentation of their athletic tickets, ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!::::::::::::::n:::::::::::::i:::;m:::~ ~~The Acme Barher~! i!! Shop \\! - ~ m ru ~ Ser:~::~t::::\e ~ m 509 UNION STREET !i! ill ill iiii!iii!:::::::::::::::::::::::::!!i!ii!!ii!ii!!!iiiiiiiiii!!ii!!iliiii The epee is the real regulation mm::m:::m:mm::mm:::::mmm:mm:m::m::m::~:: week -have been intensified with the dueling swor<l, and is much heavier m Intramural Basketball result that the team is in perfect ROSENDALE FLOWER SHOP than the foil. It has a three-cor- ::: condition for the Jackets. A hard nered blade; Epee consists of touch- i:'!:i: struggle can be expected tomonow ing an opp1>nent enywhere on his leagues night in the Palestr-a on the banks person, whet·~as the foilsman mus;t m of the Genesee at Rochester. touch an o:pponent between the !!im:m:::m::m::mm::::::mm::m:mm:mm shoulders an<l the thighs. The foil bouts tomorrow will be staged on lubber strips 10 metet·s wide and 4 meters long. 'Pbe epee events will be fought on 20 meter strips. The epee is the more dif- ficult event of the two. The sabre is staged oo. the foil mats. The Union teiUll, although this is their first match, is confident that they can put up a good fight against the slightly more experienced swordsmen, Vlho have hadr several matches against New England Col- leges. James H. Riggs, George J. Riley, Johon Roo!key, Jr., Casimir W. Ruszkowski, 'William B. Shepherd, David S. Starlt, Norman R. Stewart, Frank L. Thorne, Jack Tinkle, Francis ~. Townley, Alan B. Van Wert, Cha.rles L. Witham. 3.S.ln C. E. Yaden R, :Butler, John F. Smith. n_ s. in E. E. Samuel M:. Hewitt, George W. Hobbs, Richard M. Kelsey, Richard C. Kennedy, .:Howard L. Knack, Wil- liam J. 0-wons, Jr., Robert El. Peck, Joseph L. Tb.elsen. B. S. in Chemistcy Alden H. Davis, Walter A. Deni- son, Carl R, Fa.elton, Elliott Fraser, .Angelo J. Marotta, Philip B. Moore, Jolin o. Page, John K. Sloatman, Jr. E. S. in Physics Lee. Losee Davenport, Howard S. Moncton. ----0·--- JUNI<OR. CLASS NOTICE Results Alpha Delta Phi 2, Theta. Delta Chi, 0. ( Forfeit) Neuhals 35, Psi Upsilon 30. Theta Nu Epsilon 31, Beta Theta Pi 25. Phi Gamma Delta 39, Phi Sigma Delta 20. Schedule Tonight-7:30, P)li Delta Theta vs. Kappa Alpha. 8:30, Lambda Chi Alpha vs. Delta Upsilon. Tomonow-1 :30, Kappa Nu vs. Delta Chi, 2:30, Phi Sigma Kappa vs. Neutrals·. 3:30, Psi Upsilon vs. Theta Delta Chi. Monday-7:30, Kappa Nu vs. Sigma Chi. 8:30, Alpha Pella Phi vs. Kappa. Alpha. UNION'S OLD STANDBY Our Work and Prices Are Competitive GARNET TAILOR 305 Liberty St. Tel. 4-0122 VISIT The MOHAWK TAVERN Clams and Oysters OUR SPECIALTY Schenectady's Telegraphic Florlsrt Flowers of Quality 124 Jay Street P.hone 4-0540 Opp. City Hall \WHEN A FELLER NEEDS A FRIEND\ Griesau, George P. Haskell, William ·Membn.s o·f the Junicr cJ.ass will W. R. Hughes, Marvin Katz, John go to the Did Chapel on Ftiday, E. Knauf, Wm. P. Leonard, Duane Februaty 16, In-stead of the regular LeTarte, Harry C. Linebaugh, John Daily .AsselllJbly in the Memorial J. Marsella, Carl L. Marshall, James Chapel. The purpo:oe of this ar- W. McKenzie, Jr,, John R. Mills, ran,gement is that the members of Roy Colo Moon, Edgar L. Moulton, t·he class of 1935 may hand their Jr., Oscar J. Muller. activity slips to the editors of the Chester Nessel, Richard E. Pass- Garne-t. The regular Daily Assern. enger, Frank Y. Peck, Frank D. bly ma.rlters will be in the Old Phillips, Jr., Dominic R. Pitaro, Chapel t~ check the attendance of George F. Reedy, Chas. H. Reeves, the JunioTs <1h that day. 322 State Street Next to Overhead Crossing HENRY•s BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade There's genial sunshine and comfort in BRIGGS Pipe Mixture ..• the delightful new tobacco that is winning smokers every- where. Mellowed in the wood for years, until it's biteless, mild, and rare in flavor! Try a tin of BRIGGS and let it talk in your pipe instead of in print. ONLY THE BEST IS GOODENOUGH BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner\ Union Street Ulcl Gillespie Edward H. Brandhorst, Leland E. Brandhorst, Reg. Phar. R&g. Phar. TREMBLAY'S Liberty St. and Nott Terr. Get Your Can of Briggs Nowl SPECIAL PRICES TO STUDENTS NOON HOT LUNCH-25c KEPT FACTORY FRESH by loner linlnll of CELI.OPHAN£ 0 P. Lorillarrl Co. 1 lno,

Four rrHE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 193·1 New Books Added Former Ensign in Navy ~ecretary Twenty Years Stable Money Is Pt·oblem To College Library Will Speak Here Sunday Has Never Read Minutes Ahead for World Nations n.ature to the devaluaUon proclama-l pendi~g currency wars. It must be tt_on, he became the first man in remembered that other nations h~story to create !? bil.lion dollars- have the same privilege of deva:lu- vu tually out of thm an- by a mere mg their monetary units as was stJ ol{e of a pen: exercised by us last week. Fr a nee rhe deva1uatlcn. of the dollar by will not sit idly in the face of a the goyernmmt rs a ;>tep toward drain of her gold reserve:;: which is domeftlc Etabtlity, but there is still enriching our hoard at W·ashing- ~uch to be done to relieve interna- ton and endan~ering her main ten- bona•! uncertainty. The President ance of the gold standard. Until has the power to depress the dolla~ Britain, France and the United to as much as 50 per cent of rts States, the three largest gold-hold- former gold yalue. No ont:-not ing countries, get together and fix even the. Prt:srdent-knows Jf or a common basis, there can be no when this opt~onal power will be real stability. The -attainment of used. In te1 natrona! currency pacts intemational monetary stability is m~;~~t be negutia•tld \u ward off lm- the problem ahead. Any of Twenty Book:.-; May Be Obtain(:ld by AI>plication to Librarian for ReRel'vatiou The following is a list of books which havE' be~n added to the col- Ic ge lll.nar y 1 t.:t.:L·Jl tly. 2\lu,:,t CJ! them me in UB~ ut pl<'>'ent but may be ob- tained by applying to the librarian 1ur a te~el vution. LENARD: Gn•al Men of Science. Good shm t biogt aphiPB of more than fifty outstanding ,;<'iPntbt\ from an- cient tim<'s to the World War Physi- cists and mathPmaticians ptedomin- ate. GUTTMACHER: Life in the Making. A cleat straightforward ac- count of the essential facts of hu- man 1 ep10duction un<l of the slow growth ut man·B knowledge of his 01 igin. HINDUS: Gt Pat Offensiw. The ~toty of Hu.~,.;iu in \I{Pd Rt ead\ and \Humanity Up10oted\ is brought up- to-date. BEARD & S~'IIT!I: The Future Come~. .\ \t thl\ ut t !.o ::\\' t'\\ Dt'n 1, which Mr. Beatll sees as an inevit- able outg10wth of the Old Deal. A valuable som ce book. KEMMERER: On Monl.'v. An ex- pert on flnancJal matters 'has writ- ten what hl' call.,; an l'lementary dis- cussion of the important facts and unt!erlying p1 inetplt•\ of the money problem' now conf1 onting u\. WARRE;,\1 & PEARSON. Ptices. Two Cornell ptofp~,.;or\ havp wt·itten a mine of info! mat10n on p1 ices, gold, ~ilwt and wag<'\ with many chart> and >tat i-tical tab!es. Com- mg ftom unt of tilt Pte~ident's chil'f advt-<·r~. tho• hool< i> impOI· ta nt. RAMSEY. Expl'ttmrntal Radio. RA~ISEY. F u n J a m e n t a Is of Radio. Two good hook~ fur the tadio fan, onl' fot the beginnPI and the othet fot t ht> nll>I <' advanced. BARNES: Heienttlic ThE'my and Religion. ThP Bbhop nf Bi1 ruing- bam·~ Grffor t! !t-ctUl PS at A bPI de en <1927-291. Tlw .. ub-tttle 1,; \Thl' \Vmld n\\''rtbt•tl bv ~d<'nt·t· and Jt, Hpititual lnt .. rpr ..t:'ttiun.\ WILLIAM;:;. Hiogtaphy of MothPt Eatth. A !J\pul<.~l pit ,,·nt<ttlull of the Wegcn< t Tht•ut y of eontmental dnft. Dr. \\'tlltams makp,; a vtvitl and drama!!(' ~to1y out of 1t HOI,TBY. :\landou, Mundoa! A satire on Bt itish impPtiall:<m m thi,; flctioious African ''ommunity. WALKER· Night Club Eta. A bt eezriy wlittPn lu.~tor ;.· of the> pr·ohi- bi tlon period in New York. .lo\illed with pen picturp,.; of bootleggpr,;, gangstf'IS, hoste~;~P\ <1t1d what-not LLOYD GEORGE: War Mem- oril?s, v. 2 Continul',.; thesP impor- tant mrmoit,; fnt 1 !lli> and 1916 \ f'IY rl'adablt•. MAUGHA:--r. ,\h Kin~. Six shott !-toriPs of Em.!iit-1! nwn and women it' the Malay >tal<'-\ O'NEII,L. Ah Wtldt'l ness. A oom- Pdy built around a t;. pica! middle- dass Anll'li< an fanuly of 1906. Quilt· unlike othPI O'Neill play\. LE GALL!E:--r~>:E, Eva: At 33. A chat ming autobiogt aJ,hY by one of the found£>!>< of the NL•w York City Civic Repel tuty Thl'att·t. GORMAN: Jonathan Btshop. His- tot'ical novl'! of a young Bostoman in Paris at the outbreak of the Franco-Pru,;.;;ian war, and how hP We Have the Finest DE LUXE MOTOR COACHES To be had in the Capitol District BE CONVI:-.TCED-CALL G. A. WELCOME & SON Phone 4-8444 ll71 Union St. Mtss Troy, Mw Clltskillt Mias Richmond Mw; 5yraau;~ 200 !Uid any OJ Out '>00 BcaudfaJ Instructresses£ i) M ltUPHlSt: .a ad u s 1 c alifonua 11 s r B a s llegiateS Dr. Donald B. Aldrich, Rector of the Church of the Ascension in :-.Tew York City since 1925, Wlll speak at the chapel services Sun- day. In 1917, Dr. Aldrich received the bachelor of arts degree from Dart- mouth, in 1921, the bachelor of di- vmrty degree ft om the Epbcopal Theological Scho0l, and in 1927 Dartmouth conferred upon him the honot at y degree of doctor of divin- Ity. Dr. Aldrich was Deacon in 1920 :md Priest the fol.Jowing year of the Protestant Episcopal Church, and VI as a member of the staff of the Cathedral Church of St. Paul in Boston, Mass., frcm 1920 to 1925. From 1923 to 1924, Dr. Aldrich was Chaplain of the Massachusetts House of Representatives. Dr. Aldrieh served as quarter- master in the United States Navy m 1917 and ensign in 1918. became embroiled in the turmoil of the Commune and impressed into its mmy ROEDER: Man of the Renais- sance. Thorough biographies of four lawgivers-Savonarola, Machia- velli, Castiglione and Aretino, the author t•ecreates the Renaissance in animated, dramatic fashion. HITLER: By Battle. The Nazi Bible, written in 1924 and 1927. Hit- ler forecasts many of the po!ictes :oince put into affect. WORLD COMMITTEE FOR THE VICTIMS OF GERMAN FAS- CISM: Brown book of the Hitler Terror. Deals with the burning of the Reichstag and the Nazi anti- Communist and anti-Semetir perse- cutions. Gruesome details and illus- trations. (Continued from Ps:ge 1) (Continued from Page 1) lege teachers, doctors, lawyets, since the end of 1931 as much gold mmistets, astronomets, engineers, as all the other monetary author- merchants, libralians, reo eat ch en- ities combined. U is evident that the availability gineers, journalists, officials in the of gold fot private holding and cir- state education department, histm- culation tends to heighten the diffi- ians, superintendents of public- culties of monetary management- schools, newspaper publishers, test- especially so in times of distm b- auranteur, ptesidents of colleges, ance. Gold teser•ves should be con- accountant<;, geologid•, ph)~ici::t::, centtuted l'Xclu~ively in the handP and biologists. of monetaty authorities whenver During the twenty years of sue- gold serves as the basis 0f the cur- cessful existence the membership of r ency. The experience of the past the association has increasec;l fifty few years has proven conclusi:veiy per cent and the meetings have that the availability of gold specie been well attended. The depression for any purpose other than that of has not bit the association as hard meeting the needs of international as might be feared, according to exchange and the comrnetcial needs Dr. Stewmt. of the gold trades constitutes a real Dr. Stewart was gr aduatcd from hazat d to the successful main ten- Brown Univetsity and received his ance of the gold stand 1 atd in any doctorate flom Harvard whet e he country In the final sense, the sta:- taught for two years before joining bility of a currency depends fat the Onion faculty in 1910. He hal:; mote on confidence than on any edited sevetal German text-books practically available metallic back· and has WI itt en at ticl€s for vat ious, ing. If confidence is felt in the philogical jcm nals. cutr ency the public will be quite indiffet enl to its los~ of a fixed and practical Ieiationshtp with gold. But if confidence is lost, no exhibi- ~---01---- Chess Team Meets Vass And Garlick's Chess Men tions of huge quantities of gold te- ,;er vu;, and no amount of legi~lation against gold boar ding can re-estab- lish it. Uncertainty Being Rem~JVed 'The stabilization of the doll-ar at 59.06 cents by the Ptesident and the est a blis·hmen t of the 2 billion dollar stabi!izati0n fund with the p1 of its accruing ft om the devalu- a>llon ate steps which are removing much of the domestic bu~iness un- The HAWTHORNE CLUB SANDWICHES and COLD DRINKS 226 Lafayette Street Milk Cream Dine ar:~d Dan<ee at THE HOFBRIU 721 STATE ST. Cool. Sparkling Beverages and German Style Lunches Served Phone 2-5053 Buf.ter Eggs CLOVERLAND CREAMERY The chess match with Dr. Gar- lick's team was completed last 1,\ionday evening when Sam Simon, '34, defeated Dr. Hewlitt and J. S. Rosen, '35, lost to P. C. Gardner in two close games. Although the match was lost, the fmal score be- mg 3% to l'h, it is considered a mota! victory m vtew of the com- parative strength of the teams. cet tainty and testoling that confi- .•. PHONE 2 4265 dence in the U. S. CUll ency which • m • m In the match with L. C. Vas::1' team Sam Simon, '34 easily defeated P. C. Gordon and although Rich ard Kelsey, '37 has not yet played his opponent G. M. Brown, the col- lege team will win by at least 3-2. is so esE'ential to. r~al pl ogr e~s in m m CUI cancer ted dllV€ against these !;; m totces which have been impelling m Ice Cream \' the nation and the wotld towatd m Cottage Cheese m economic ruin and social chaos. m ii! When Roosevelt attached his sig- iil;;;;::;;;;:;mm::m;m;mm;:m:mmmm;;;;;:;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;m;m;;;;;;;mmm;;;;;;;m;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;mm;m;ii! t•••••••••••m•••••••••••• Official U. C. Photographers • ii Portrait and Commercial .• THE FARM •. A Better Position Photographing THE 21 r':!feEst~~eymo !THE COUNTRY CLUB5 u. c. Representative : RESTAURANTS :: !..---T.,-. _w_HI_P_P_L_E_, _c_h_i_P_s_i _-_-_-'_I •_l_l_l_ll~·-·-~_m_I_I_II_I_R 1 lllllll 1; Whatever Your Heart Desh;)l-- SANDWICH INN Schenectady•s Popular Rendezvous You Can get it Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dol- lars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure better pos- ition and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE. ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. <Teachers address Dept T. All othets address Dept. S l Continental Teachers Agency. Inc. 1812 Downing St. Denver, Co 1 (). Covers the ENTIRE United St~ ter School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at c.ar exp-nse, if speed is urgent. You will receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 36 hours. ran I\

pe ns a is ed no of is s I 1 ;I) l Abolition Of Class Officers DelDated in Student Body Meeting • ,t_ • t \ I ~' - ! ! i { ~ I j • Trustees tli Name Chairmen Of Divisions As A Part Of New Union Plan Vol. LVII., No. 3t1 UNION COLLEGE, SGHE:t-.TECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS Ellery Scorns Snap Courses In Phi Beta Kappa Address Acting President Also Attacks Present, Antiquated Marking System Employed by American Colleges At Dinner Meeting of Upper Hudson Association FOR RESEARCH WORK' Morse Elected to Replace Dr. Stewart as Secretary Believes Students Should Do Written Work for Election Whether or not Phi Beta Kappa, the national honorary scholastic so- ciety, should raise the intellectual tone of a college and of the com- munity in some definite concrete fashion was debated at the Univer- sity Club in Albany Saturday night at the twentieth anniversary dinner- meeting of the Upper Hudson Asso- ciation of Phi Beta Kappa, Dr. Ed- ward Ellery, acting president, stout- ly maintained in his address that Phi Beta Kappa has not any posi- tive influence on the intellectual life of the students and pointed out ways in which it may have such influence .. Dr. Harrison C. Coffin, professor of· Greek and chairman of the division of languages and Iiturature, declared that Phi Beta Kappa is not obligated to do anything about raising the intellectual tone of the college. Dr. Ellery who has been national secretary for the Sigma Xi Society, national honorary scientific society, since 1922, and who has held various positions in Phi Beta Kappa since his graduation from Colgate in 1890 including- that of president of the Upper Hudson Association of Phi Beta Kappa and of the New York State Association of Phi Beta Kap- pa, declared flatly that Phi Beta K'l.ppa has done nothing to \enrich the intellectual life of the college world or of the individuals who com- pose it.\ He said further, Phi Beta K'l.ppa has exerted no definite and positive influence in the intellectual advancement either of individuals or institution.\ Election Is Based Upon Grades The chief reason for this, declared Dr. Ellery, is that election to Phi Beta Kappa is based principally upon the grades of a student and therefore the candidate for election to Phi Beta Kappa has done noth- ing in pre-election years that he would not have done had there been no such society. At present, he main- tained. Phi Beta Kappa merely \sec- onds the motion\ of professors who have graded the students and makes no distinction between \pipe\ courses or difficult significant courses, in rating a student's marks for mem- bership. Dr. Harrison C. ·Coffin and Dr. David S. Morse were among the new officers elected at the Phi Beta. Kappa meeting Saturday night. Dr. Coffin was elected to the executive committee consisting of Dr. I. F. McCormick of the Albany Academy: George O'Connor, Waterford attor-: ney, and Edwin Robbins, Glens Falls High School teacher. Dr. Morse was elected to replace the po- sition of secretary-treasurer which has been held for twenty years by Dr. Morton C. Stewart, who on re- tiring reported $1,200 in the treas- ury. Dr. Harold A. Larrabee at this meeting retired from his :position· of vice-president. Dr. Larrabee was repl;wed .by Dr. James L. Meader, of Russell Sage Co11~ge. Coffin Defends Phi Beta Kappa Policy Presents Five Objections to Ellery's Proposals; Society Not Obligated to Colleges Five objections to the argument p1esented by Dr. Edward Ellety at the twentieth annivers!lry dinner meeting of the Upper Hudson As- IOOciation of Phi Beta Kappa were presented by Dr. Ha-rrison C. Cof- fin. A summary of Dr. Coffin's points are: 1. In the first place it by no means follows that Phi Beta Kappa ls cbligated to do a.nything about 1 aising the intellectual tone of the college. The organization has ex- isted for more than 100 yea1 s tc confer a cachet on distinguished students, and in doing so is not merely seconding a motion made by someone else, it is doing what most honor societies do. 2. It would be a very dangerous thing for Phi Beta Kappa to pre- pare a black list of easy courses which would not be recognized for election to the society; easy courses do exist, but the responsibility fm them rests squarely on the admin- istration involved, and suggesting that the society •black l'ist these courses which are unworthy is ncthing more than shifting respon- sibility. Research Will Not Solve Problem To make Phi Beta Kappa a posi- tive influence on the Intellectual life of the students, Dr .Ellery proposed these \motions by which Phi Beta Kappa is in a strong position to in- 3. Turning Phi Bet Kappa into augurate, to support enthusiastically a research organizaUon will not en- and to cause to be carried in every tirely solve the problem for that institution where chapters exist, for will do much to encourage speciali- the lasting benefit of higher educa- ~atiotnh~motng thed~tudents, and that tion: rs a mg: o avo t. . . Attacks •snap' Com'Sea 4. Agam,_ the gradmg system m . :alleges ought to be changed. but . 1. Ph1 Beta Kappa should black- I the Phi :Leta Kappa society is not h•t. rournPo: of !'tudy ~hat _laC\k schol- to be b!amed for following systems ~·tJc charact£>r, reqmre httle or no I of l.!l.·ading which ar(' well nigh uni- mtellectual effort on the .Part of the ve: s1.l in this country. The society undeygrad';late, are notonously ea~y, of course has a right to fix it.• own ron d. m ~vhtch. n_o .s.tu<lents ever fml.s. ,tan(!ardos. it is bar dly for thrFP In JUdgmg- ehglbthty to mPmbnghrp ,tnnuard>l to be fixed for it by out· in Phi Brta Kappa each chapter can ,ide: s d£>liberately eliminate certain courses 5. Exhm tat ion of PithPr pupiJg ftom consideration in appraising in- ~~ teachers in sPcondary schools ~ellectu.al S;bni.ty and let it be known may not .oucceed in having the de- m the mshtutwn that those cour.o;es sited result. If Phi Beta Kappa ~:re not held in high scholastic. es· II wants tu ratse the intellectual ton<' teem .... \ of any college it can do so .by en- 2.\Phi Beta Kappa can abandon couragin·g goDd student;; to go to ,s a basis for eligibility to member- that college, 01 pet haps by Pndow· ship our present indefensible and un- ing a scholarship which would be intelligent measure of intelligence-- awarded strictly on a basis of merit the marking or grading system, The society may be old. but it is not whether in Arabic or alphabetic no- necessarily ;;enile. tation . . . Where is the academic justice in declaring a student intel- ligible to the society of scholars who ends a course with a good grasp of the subject but who at the beginning of the course when a mental method and material were new to him floun- dered, thus receiving such a low arithmetical grade as to bring his arithmetical average below the arithmetical figure arbitrarily set as a limit by Phi Beta Kappa? ... Phi Beta Kappa can abandon this baels of appraising mental ability, and so doing perform a superb serv- ice in the intellectual wo-rld. Phi Beta Kappa can hasten the need, perhaps in mercy help make the end peaceful, and recognize a long, if useless life, in an honol'a!>le fun- eral •••• \ Independent Basis of Eligibility 3. \Phi Beta Kappa can adopt an independent basis of eligibility- one of its own devising and under (Continued on Page 4) CALENDAR Tonight Meetings of the German, French and ClassicRI f'lubs. Tomorrow Dally Assembly -- Dr. Philip Moseley. Basketball Game-Union vs. Swarthmore. Publication Board Meeting- Administration Building, 4:30 p. m. Athletic Board Meeting-Gym- nasium, 7:30 ·P· m. Sigma Xi Meeting-Chemistry Laboratory, 8 p. m. Thursday Daily Assembly - Robert H. Smith. Friday Daily Assembly - Dr. Elmer Tldmarsh, Music. Radio Clwb Meeting-Room 22, Electrical Lab, 3;30 p. m. Chosen As Di,visional Chairmen Berg, Coffin,Cummins;Garis, Head Curriculum Divisions -----·--- Choices of Trustees Made Public by Ellery Today; Field Chairmen Correspond to Departmental Heads Under Former Union Educational System Berg Gives Reasons Fori C'FMMIN'S 3RD YEAR His Belief in Union Plan The reasons why I believe thor- oughly in the new college plan are: First: We shall enroll many young men who represent good and often the best engineering materi- al but who 'because of lacking cred- its in subjects of little interest to them would not meet our previous entrance requirements. Second: While engine e rIng courses have probably been altered :ess than others; some changes have been made and these tend towards directing the efforts of the .students to excel in at least one phase of his work. The field covered by the new curriculum is narrower but will be dealt with more scientifically. Our engineering students will have a better understanding of mathemat- ics and its application to practical problems. Third: Last but not least by any means, we now have an a.dminis- tt ative machinery which should eliminate duplications· of work and friction between departments and 'thus increase and improve effi- , ciency. ERNST J. BERG, Chairman of Engineering Division Lecturer Will Play Native Instruments Levis Considet·ed au Authority On Music of the Orient; !Re- ceived Favorable Comment Chairman of Faculty ComM mittee Devising Union Plan With the announcement today of the men who wiU be chairmen of the four divisions of study into which the eighteen departments of the college have been integrated, the recently announced Union Col- lege Plan of Education is now in .full operation. Dr. Edward Ellery, acting .president, made public today the names of the men chosen by the trustees to head the three arts di- visions. The chairman of the En- gineering Division was named in 1932. The chairmen of the divisions are: Dr. Harrison C. Coffin, profes- sor of Greek, chairman of the Di- vision of Language and Literature; Dr. Earl E. Cummins, professor of ~conomics, chairman of the Di- vision of Social Studies; Dean Charles F. F. Garis, professor of mathematics, chairman of the Di- vision of Mathematics and Science; Dean Ernst J. Berg-, professor of electrical engineering, was chosen chairman of the Division of En- gineering two years ago. Departments Me1•ged The eighteen departments of study have been merged into these four divisions. \Each division is charged with the responsibility of preparing and operating its own curriculum, with primary concern for students especially interested in its kind of work. These curricula are not acted upon by the general faculty. They are subject to ap- proval, however, by a committee composed of the president and dean John Hazedel Levis will give a of the college, and the chairmen of c.oncert-lecture on the Music of the divisions. In this way correla- •China in the Memorial Chapel, Fri· tion is obtained without the long -------------------------------- day night, at 8 o'clock. This wi!l br delays and acrimony entailed by Semerad For A.bolition Of Bowdoin Debaters Here the second of the three annual protracted argu.ments in meetings . Ichabod Spencer Lectureships, and of the general faculty.'' Outgrown Class Offices Tonight on NRA Topic w~k\~3e~~e ;? I::isfcu~\~i be espe- Field Chairmen In Student Body Meeting yester- day morning Ralph Semerad, '34, moved that all class offices, with the exception of those of the Senior Class, be abolished after September, 1934. In the three lower classes, he pointed out, the officets have prac- tically no duties and are mere hangovers from the days when class organization was strong. In answer to the argument that these offices should remain as distinctive positions for outstanding under- graduates, Semerad pointed out that in many cases election to them is an empty honor. The Sophomore Discipline Committee and the Jun- ior Prom Committee, furthermore, would still serve as rewards for out- standing men. Oaniel F)jnp., '34, pre.siden t of the Student Council announced that the Council had recommended to the ,:,thletic Board the substitution of a woven \U\ for the present minor spot tG award and had gone on rec- CJtd a,; favoiing the retention of two couises dropped from the cunicu- 1 um by the Administration under the new .system going into effect next year. The varsity debating team will engage in its sixth encounter of the season tonight when it meets Bow- doin College in a debate to be held in the Solarium of the Hotel Van Curler at 7:45 p. m. All .student.< who are interested in the pe1tment topic of the NRA are invited to at- tend. The exact topic is: Resolved: \That the Powers of the President of the United States Should be Sub- stantiaiiy Increased as a Settled Policy.\ Robert H. Smith, '34, and Francis Townley, '37, will uph{))d the affirmative for the Garnet, while Harold Tipping, '35, and Ed- ward Uehlein, '34, will support the negative for Bowdoin. Smith and Milton Schwebel, '3·1, represented Union in a debate at Sytacllile Friday night on the topic, Resolved. \That the p1 inciples of the NRA should b\ adopted a, 1\•1· manent feature:; \'\ Amct ic:J.n Gov- ernment Policy, .. upholding tlte af- firmative. Miss Martha O'Dell, '34, and Miss Rachael Moot\· '35, arg- ued Ihe negativt• fu1 Sy1acu:w Uni- \et:;ity. The dt•bate, which was ·btoadca.;t by :>tation WFBL wa~ a no-decision encountet. Upper Hudson Association of Phi Beta Kappa Preferred to be Stags Editol'':!! note; Tiili; article is taken from \The History of the Upper Hudsun &sociation of !'hi Beta Kappa\ b:~· Professor Morton C. Stewart. The foundation of the Upper Hudson Association of Phi Beta Kappa was discussed by the mem- bers of the Union chapter on De- cember 16, 1913 upon suggestion of Dr Alexander Duane, Union '78. All th~ Phi Beta Kappa men of this district were invited to attend a meeting to form such an organiza- tion. The members in atten~ance and those who expressed their re- grets as to their inability to be in attendance at the initial meeting were to be recognized as Founda- tion Members. The association was called the Upper Hud'Son Association of Phi Beta Kappa; all Phi Beta Kappa men in the district were eligible for membership and there were to be three annual meetings. If the Upper Hudson Association was thus hired by Dt Duane· and Professor Bennett it wa,, damn<'d by the Phi Beta Kappa women of the distlict. Many indignant letters were received by the secretary. One of these is worthy of quoting-the head and tail are omitted because unlike the serpent and the scm·pion the venom is in the body: \For some unfath<Jmable reason the Up- per Hudson Association of Phi Beta Kappa sees fit to ignore iU; women members ... By what sophommic rule this graduate society excludes a group of its members, many, if not ail, of whom ·are engaged in those very pursuits which are most compatable with the ideals <Jf the society I have never been able to discover. I, and! the many other Eastern New York members would 'be grateful for any kind of ade- quate explanation.\ The only ex- planation wat~ that the men had' formed a \stag\ org·anlzation, a question that was fought out at the Foundation meeting. The original (Continued on Page 4) cially interested iii this .::oncert and The chairmen of the three \at ts\ lecture. divisions will be assisted by the fol- Dr. Alfred Sze, Chinese Minister lowing sub-chairmen of faculties in m Washington, after he heard thl~ theit· respective \fields of study\: lE>Cital recently in New York, Language and Literature Divi- wrote to Mr. Levis, \With yom sion: Dr. Frank. C. Barnes, modern ;;reat devotion to and knowledge ol languages; James s. Green. Jr., L hinese music you will undoubtedly English; Dr. George D. Kellogg do much to bring a•bout an under- ancient classics. ' standing and appreciation among Social Studies Division: H. Laur- VJ'estern people of the beauty and ence Achilles, religion; Dr. William Vlealth of the art of Chinese music W. Bennett, economics; Dr. Joseph which is sadly misunderstood.\ D. Doty, history; Dr. W. Leon God- Rcc~h'ed By Hutchinson shall, political science; Dr. Harold Hubbard Hutchinson in the New A. Larrabee, philosophy. York Times 1eviewed the lecture- Mathematics and Science Divi- lecitnl as follows: \John Hazedel sion: Dr. Charles B. Hurd, chPmrs- J,_evis's recital and discussion of try: Dr. John L. March, psychology; Chinese music had the rare merit Dr. James W. Mavor, biology; Pro- of making interesting a subject re- fesso.r Edward 8. C. Smith, geology: r.'ote and abstruse to most of his Dr. Peter I. Wold, physics. d' H\ t k · Dean Charles F. F. Garis, chair- au len<; e. . 18 as was to £'Xplam man of fhP Divi·,inn of MHt ht>mat,iPR ::; •me thing of the system whereon l '\ \cla.\«ic\ music of the Sung and and RciPnrP rame to l'nion after his !I mg dyna><ties w·a.s d'eveluped; to g-r aduatinn frnm LafnyPttP in 1!103 e c.pound the living popular Chinese and herRm~ a profe!'lsor of Mathe- nrusic of today, and to illustrate matics in 1908. Dean Garh< was b 1th by :;ong and instruments. madP an honorary Doctor of Sci- \]f the music of Wagnet· had been <'nrP in Hl23 hy Laf.ny<>tt<> C\olleg<' v.ntL·n 7CO years ago, almo~t fot- HP WR!l chosPn 0Pan of StudPnts in gotten, and the symbols of iw nota· lH19, and D<>nn of thP C'ollPgC' in t1on lanwly lost; if a o;cholarly 193 3. European musician unde1 took to Dr. Earl E. Cummin>< was gradu- explain to Chinese who had never ated fro.m Hiram College in 1917, heard of 1 t what music had been rmd arhwvPd h iR doctoratP of A rtf' in all its glory, and H he could only at Yah• in 192!'1. Dr. C'ummin\' u.J so by quoting a few themes from taught economics at the University Di~ Walkure or the rhythmic pat- nf NPw HampshirP and at Pt incC'- t<'ln of Liesestod, smce teseatch ton, and wn\ n,.;,.i,;tant profP.·«or had uncovered nothing else, his find professoT of eronomics at the task would be roughly equivalent C'olle>ge of Wool'Oter. HP came to .<J !\It. Levis's, as rega 1 dt; the ciao- Union in 1931. and h~\' RPrvrd for stc mus1c of China. He for tunatt·ly two YPRrs a,:; ~per'ial advi,er to thP attempted. only a summa 1 y uf the New York Rtate DPpartmPnt of elaborate melodic science of this Labor system; enough, however, to slit Dr. Harrison C. Coffin. who joined the imagination. He illustrated it the Union faculty in 1920, a gradu- w.ith only two music-poems of the ate of Johns Hopkin\ and ea rnpd· period, performed, he says, for the ~is Doctorate of Phil~sophy therP fir.,;t time in the modern epoch. One m 1920. He was Hopkin!' Rchol:1r wru; accompanied effectively and m his undergrA.dtlRIP yPar<\. and Ed- eerily by the drums and rare bells mund Law Rogers Fellow in Clas- of !tiS era. All this, naturally, gave sics as post-graduate. Dr. Coffin merely a hint of a music culture served in the Chemical Warfare that once expressed itself by a Service Army of the United States court orchestra of a thousand in 1918-19. · pieces, and that permeated the na- Dean Ernst J. Berg, who was tion:ll life as western music has made chairman of the Division of never done. Engineering in 1932, is a graduate Variety of Interesting Instruments 'lf the Royal Polychnicum in Stock- holm, Sweden. After work with the \Thereafter Mr. Levis produced a G. E., Commonwealth Edison and variety of interesting instruments, other corporations, Dean Berg ancient and modern; the small, taught at the University of Illinois sharp-voiced Sheng, ancestor of the and came to Union in 1913. Sine~ organ; a flute with rough timbre; then he has done much lecturing in the So Na, a gorgeously blatant .Harvard, Yale, University of Penn- horn-creature skin to a bagpipe In sylvania, and rrther schools. He re- quality; raucous two-string violins, celved the degree of Doctor of Sci- (Continued on Page 4) ence from Union in 1909.

Two \Ll Car1sa l'eraa I' a role A 8sai\ FouNDED 1876 ~'\.s.sodated aotltgiatt ~\'\!;~ . o'~\,0:~'\' )q]} 'i'I~T<ONAl~,:ovtRACt) )(}34: The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Publl:;;hed Tuesdays and Frid!lys throughout the college year, except durmg Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, SilHman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union 9oll.ege, Schenectady, N. Y. .All other communJcations to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon :Uouse, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg .......... Business Manager C. William Huntley ........... Managing Editor Robert H. Smith .................. News Ed1tor Arnold J. Friedman .............. Sports Editor Prince E. Oleson ................ Feature Editor Morton C. Stewart ........ Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD C. Hathaway J. Woolman M. Berger D. Moulton SOPHOMORE BOARD J. Anderson R. Nmth C. Reid, Jr. v. Gilbert A. H. Stevenson Issue Editor ..... Clemens F. Hathaway TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1934 ''SNAP\ COURSES There appears to be two definitions of what is known as a \snap\ course from the point of view of the undergraduate. First, it may be defined as a course which requires little or no work in order to secure a passing grade, O'l' even a second or third gi'ade. In the second place, many undergraduates ,,·ould call a course which is of no value what- soever, but in ·which nobody ever gets less than a second grade, or possibly on rare oc- casions a thi1·d, a \pipe.\ Everyone will agree that there is no place in the l'nion College curriculum for a course which may be d~scribed by this second defi- nition. There is nothing more to say about this group except that it is up to the Admin- istration to see that no such courses are of- fel·ed here. The first defi11ition, however, is well worth sel'ious consideration. We have a few courses here that may be placed definitely in this first group. Few, if any, students have ever been known to fail in them. On the other hand, only a small number secure first grades. These courses have a very definite value. The student gets out of them exactly what he puts in. The only difference between these subjects and the rest of the courses offered is that the student elects it feeling fairly well assured that he will not fail. Of course it would not be right to have all courses run in this manner, but as long as there is plent:,· of valuable material in these \snap\ com·ses If the student wants to get it; IS it not :t·eally up to the im.tructor whether or not he fails anyone? It is no secret among the undergraduates which courses are easy to pass. There would be no point in mentioning them here. There are certain things that every coiiege student should know in m·dcr to be graduated a we11- roundec1 man. Some of our so called \pipe\ courses offer these advantages. As long as they continue to rlo so. we say, \:\lore power to them.\ STUDENTS C'AN START AT SCRATCH There are several standards which a faculty can use to judge a student's capabili- ties; surely a g-roup of educators can see that there is necessity for a mm·e far-reaching and more authoritath·c system of grading the ac- complishments of those studying under them. Psychology teaches us that a person's in- telligence is det<'nnined by his heredity and environment. Hence a student cannot be- THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1934 come more brilliant than his heredity and I M'I'DD·L'ESEX I>.IQTE'S environment will permit. College students II F A R R A G Q ·1 TMoo hunUcod •• u':,, •tudont. are thus left to be classfied always by what ~-'=========================~- on the Dean's List as compared they can answer whel'l they are quizzed. \' with 0ne hundred: -and ninety-nine We are ripe for a disset tation on fact-mindedness: \we inherit the last February. Ei::on()lll.ic inter- Research wo1·k and COlUil101l interest in weather; someone had to clear up achievement-and the loss, which pretation of history-the students I · 1 d · 1 f · the foul pro>blem, s0 up trots Mlle .. we do not know how to make good\. .H'e mo!'e serious. t 1e course mvo ve is certam y a ·air bas1s Stein wit:h just gobs of enlighten- As ort 0n so knifingly observes, --- of judging what grade a student should ment: \there can be rain and warm \everywhere in the modern world Innocent questions: snow an·d warm that is the water 'we see the combination of advanced What happened to the eig·ht-year receive. He enters college with a preparatory is warm the river is not warm the mind with primitive impulse\. Sci- plan? 01 , hi' 0 .1 1 sc·hool 1 • CO d f fou Tl l sun is not warm ancl if to stay to ence breeds power, but science de- Why with a $S,OOO surplus in the \' · • ' · e r 0 · r years. 1e CO - cry\. HalleluJ'ah, sister! clines to admit responsibility for <:Lthletic department should there be lege faculty caR see by that whether the stu- Keats' Ode to a Nightingale ami the use of this power. I'm not only .four showers in working con· Chopin's :Nocturne Ou. 9, No. 2 body Lhinking at the moment of the big- dition for the several hundred stu- dent is inclined to be in the class of the in- f.orth the same mood in two arts. ser and: better murder-techniques .. dents who do not play on any ath- t 11 . t · t W ld 't t b New version: \.All the world loves that science .g.ives the War Depart- letic team·, an·d wh\ not have hot e · Igen sm or no . ou I no e more 1 k ment: this is the usual 1'·llustrati0n. ~ a sucker''. Norman Doug as spea s water, at least most of the time, fair to let students continue fr01n that record of \an almost audible wink\. An- r'm thin.king 0 ~ the slop splashed available for these few showers? dre Maurois' real name is Emile around by 'vvill Hays' little moron- Why must the ·Glee Club sing and then base their grades on how much Herzog. This gem f.rom Pearl Buck: colony out where even the roses run \Home 011 the Range\! thev put into their courses~ '\a little young new moon\; Miss wild. And I'm thinking of a radio Why Hen Week? (In case you · Buck, we take it, belongs to the that has· turned into one big sales· didn't know- ·the rating of a f,ra- A :,;tudent's inclinations towards volun- Economy of Effort school. agency for cheese, toothpaste, cod- ternity varies inversely with the May we remind any of our class- liver oil and cigarettes. 'l'he great- amount of ,paddling done.) tary research work and papers most cer- mates· who have vague intentions of est single educational medium of Why Schenectady theaters have t · l 1 t th · t h 1 l going to graduate school that they'd the mouern age ·becomes in Amer- to run dmtble-feature hills with alll y revea 0 e InS ructor W et 1er 1e better look alive about it; some ica a very long and very lousy show films that are cut to two-thirds and l 's tl'Vl.JJ<Y to leal'll as ffillCh as he poss1'·bl c 11 .schools close registration March 1, designed solely to wheedle the dol- that arrive in our town th1ee • ·,., , ' . · Y a others March 15. One interne de- ia;rs out of John :Public. This in- months after they are shown in Al- from the course involved. lf such a basis for fines the EmergeBcy Room as a deed is power gone sour. What bany, Troy and Altamont?' place where peo.ple come if they cut goo.d is science if its fruits are gl'a.ding were established, those students who their finger yesterday and are these? One critic has it that we were not born to JJe brilliant can have equal afraid it's going to ·bleed tomorrow. \have every skill requisite f0r ac- Fred Keating gave us this: \Busi- celeratin·g the speed of modern liv- chaaces of attaining good gTades and would ness was S'O bad they arrested the ing·, and no philosophy to direct our ticket-taker for vagrancy\. course.'' naturally put evi~ry college undergraduate on The spectral line of smoke that an equal basis at the start. rises from a glowing cigarette- * * * ABOLISH THEM The question of whether or not class of- fices should be abolished was finaiiy brought to the attention of the Student Body when the subject was brought up for discussion at the 1·egular meeting yesterday morning. Wisely enough, the motion to abolish the offices was tabled until the next meeting, which will take place in two weeks. This will give those who are interested an opportunity to devote serious thought to the subject and to vote intelligently when the proper time comes. If the discussion at the meeting brought out anything at all, it brought out the fact that no valid arguments can be advanced in favor of the retention of class officers. Of the two arguments in favor of the status quo-and the1·e were only two-one was an appeal to save class offices as honors to be bestowed by students upon prominent class- mates; the other expressed the fear that the abolition of the offices would increase the powers of the Student Council. In reg fwd to the fir~t argument we ean only say that its advocates have lost sight of the fact that class officers were originally instituted ·with a purpose. l\Ien •rho were hono1·ed-and at that time it was indeed an honol'-by election to these offices had cer- tain functions to perform. These functions, as everybody knows, are now carried on by othe1· agencies, and the result is that, de- prived of their functions, class offices have now become empty honors. This argument does not warrant extended discussion but \ve cannot resist the temptation to point out that the attempts to manipulate the elections through deals often resulted in ill-feeling, and that the little interest, if such it may be called, shown by students in voting for their officers certainly cannot be considered indi- cative of a man's prominence. Itt is true that this year practically the entire Student body voted in the elections, but this, it will be no- ticed, was due not so much to inte1·est on the patt of students as to the wisdom of the Student Council in holding the balloting in Daily Assembly and thereby practically forcing students to vote. As for those who entertain fears that the Student Counc1l, gr,own overwhelmingly powerful by the abolition of class officers, will encroach upon their liberties, we hasten to assure them that the Student Council has no such ambitions. We would also point out to these students that the retention of the officers 'vould in no way tend to act as a check on the Council .since they seldom, if ever, do anything· now anyway. We have previously stated our reasons for favoring the abolition of the officers and it only remains for us to review them briefly. First, class officers have outlived their use- fullness; second, deals which inevitably ac- company all elections breed animosity and ill-feeling; finally, students show little gen- uine interest in the elections. (Rumor has it that few freshmen know who their president is, and fewer !';til] know who the other of- ficers are). watch it long enough and the books Maybe the arts can teach us and desk and walls fade slowly ::;omething about self-direction that away-and the dreams come down science at its best cannot. The arts, m hoards, and mingle with the wav- if ta;ken seriously, may envision a ing· white column. glimpse of life as a whole and not Wiliiam .Aylott Orton of Smith in its separate parts as science College packs an intellectual wallop would have us regard it. Just as in his America in Search of Culture. to fall in love .is something quite He's good when he knocks down apart from knowledge about love. the he-man notion that poetry and '\lt ·is in this leap beyond the con· drama and painting are the frills fines of mere brain that the es- and fads of life, nice elevated ways sential character of art resides.\ of spending leisure hours, but cer- Swiping from the Times again; tainly not worthy of long and in- this is credited to G. L. Hem- tensive study. Science, economics, minger: mathematics-now these are good strong masculine sU:bjects, but Tobacco is a dirty weed, music, water-colors, or even litera- 1 like it. ture--these last are .mere adorn- It satisfies no normal need, ments ·and are pursued by stringy I like it. effeminate souls who lack the guts It makes you thin, it makes you to pal around with real men. The lean, attitude is so common it hurts. lt takes the hair right off yom * * * The sciences we laud to the stars; some of the !lcclaim is justified, but not all. Our ancestors glibly sacri- ficed us to their own passion for .bean; lt's the worst darn stuff I've ever seen, 1 like it! J.P. R. along those lines of new ideas. He lets prejudices placed in his mind by parents, teachers, and his own reluctance to deviate from the beaten path prevent him from even listening to intelJig.ent discussions on subjects which he will have to face later as realities. Even such organizations as. the Last week the Glee Club showed Progressive Club are confronted what splendid work can be accom- with the problem of people who re- plished after several months of in- fuse to discuss or consider being tensive rehearsal; although it has enlightened on some of the more not yet reached that height at modern social developments. The which every phrase in each num- student mind seems closed to new her is imbued with the fullest ex- ideas, closed because he cannot be- pres~ion of which the Club is cap- come accustomed, in his limited ex- able, the high quality of its singing perience, to new ideas and methods. thoroughly warranted the unusually Politics and recovery are only in- enthusiastic response of its audi- teresting to the college man on this ences. With the additional expe- campus in that he appreciates the rience which the Club now pos- ability to talk in billions. He leaves sesses we may expect from it an government to others as if it were even better performance in New his duty not to question the dictates York later this month. of the men higher up; he is indif- \Why Don't You Try,\ a gay and ferent to government at a time hwnorous soldier's :marching song, when students are taking an active has become one of the most popular part in the rule of other countries. numbers that the Club sings . .At Theism is a matter to which his Watertown, where it brought forth mind is made up. He believes be- two encores, this song was the most cause he believes, and that is that. popular on the program, largely be- Any intelligent question of this or cause of the dramatic touch given that religion is to him rank sacri- to the incidental solo by Frederick lege. Social problems, \the\ social Morris and the apparent enthusi- problem in particular, are not to be asm of the chorus. In Oswego the mentioned in polite society-and following evening the Club sur- where is the student who does not passed itself in the old Welsh consider himself politely social? chorale, \Laudamus sung with a Thus it would seem, if it were nobility above anything the group not for a small minority of true had previously risen to in that college men, that a college educa- number. tion is not aimed at an under- The greatest opportunity for the standing attitude towards' society, Club to add finish to its work is but is a place for erudition for the in the English lyric, \Passing By,\ sake of erudition; a locality in which in its very simplicity inspires which people read only that litera- to an even more tender and more ture placed before their drudging beautiful effect with every new ren\ mentalities by persons with Intel'\ dition. It is, perhaps ,the most clif- ests to protect; a place where an ficult number of the program. intelligent mind is unwelcome and The Glee Club, which is possibly where one can never be developed. even further advanced than it was -The New Hampshire. last year at this time, has reached rr==========~==~ a point where it may devote all its II ]I efforts to acquiring a greater' sym- l.n the MB·I·I pathy and feeling for' the finer( less apparent touches in each song. We 1'-==;o;;;;;==========;;\1 can only mention the fine tone and ·• dramatic strength of Herbert Haus- 'l'he Concordiensis is not re- ser's solos, the high quality of the sponsible for anything published tr' t t d herein. The opinions are not s mg quar e an other features, necessarily a part of its editorl'al and the marked success of the Garnet Goblins. policies. ----o---- Week's Best Editorial CAMPUS CONSERVATISM .A representative collegian on this campus, if asked, will admit that he is liberal, if not a radical. What form this radicalism takes is rath- er vague in his mind, but he is sure that he is not, in any sense of the term, a conservative New EnglandH er. To meet students there is a cer- tain uninformedness that makes them a bit self-conscious in express- ing an opinion on a matter of prime importance in this changing world of ours. The same student has an attitude of indifference toward major poli- tical and economic problems while he engages his mind with his all- important \extra-curricular activi- ties.'' When subjects of inte!\est in cultured society, such as theism, birth control, or political· trends, are broached, our collegian would rath- er change the subject. He will, if pressed, admit that what little thought he had given the matter is prejudiciously opposed to any such vital change of sooietal thought \Many People Think Ro, Too\ To the Editor of the Concordiensis: AIS a ·student who has taken the Survey Course in English Litera- ture I appreciate your effort for its preservation. One of the most val- uable courses at Union, it deals thoroughly with an important field of literature. Professor Wainger, who customarily conducts the course, gives the student a fuller acqualntanee with many writers who :might otherwise be neglected· even more, through this course h~ impresses the importance of litera- ture as an insight into character and the relation. of a writer to his time. Several students each year cor- relate the course with Dr. Doty's c.ourse. in English History; the two aoveta!l even more satisfactorily than would be expected, to the great enhancement of each. One characteristic of the course has al- ways been the enthusiasm and eag- erness of the group which takes it. I hope its abolition will be recon- sidered. RANKIN.IiJ HINMAN The Civic Players lurclled: out of their usual mediocrity last week, mostly because o.f Union College. Mr. Bagster-CoHins gave the best performa:nce, as the lea.d in \Berke- ley Square\ that the coffee-and- cake dilettantes have ever wit- nessed on the South Church street &lage. And the .Jightlng, in charge of Jack Dowling, '37, was remark- ably expert and decidedly superior to the floodlighting effects of previ- ous Slayer efforts. Another idiotic question: Why wasn't Union located in California, where the sun always shines and where cold weather is only read about in the newspapers? The Glee Club was extremely careful to conform to J>opular con- ceptior;ts of the modern college boy on the1r ·watertown trip. It is time someone woke up. P.W. ~~=,~:'~:\:'1 ll C t . I ~~ o n e m p o r a r1 e s ~ II, _,..,\T I ~\~~ ~ .... !..;.._~ ~~.:.:...~ ~....-!-~......~ ~...~.:.:....~ A Hellish Time Was II.a(! By All Little did the fraters <Jf a Rut- gers fraternity think of the sorrow that was in store for them when they commanded three of their pledg-es to capture a ci,gar-store In- ulan or undergo that old Greek cu;;- to.m. The heartlees upperdassmen drove the three out into the night and upon their missio·n. About 3 o'clock the next morning, the weary freshmen spied a cast-ir-on statue of Pocahontas in a village outside of New Brunswick, and tugging manfully at its concrete base, re- turned to the house T'he:y were re- ceived with open anns. But the ca:tch came in when it was found that the statue was worth quite a lot, and that the owner was bent upon finding it. The Targum, campus newspaper, unco-vered. the affair, and though no prosecution resulted, there are quite a few chastened fraternity men in Rut- gers tonight. * * .. No Mo1•e Numerals ~o more numerals is the cry raised by Dean Frank W- Nicolson, of Wesleyan, w.ho is campaigning for a revision of college marking systems. The Dean objects to the present system on the gt\ound that different professors mark different- ly, and that the marl{-g-rubbers take :tdvantage of it. Instead. he recom- mends that the marks given should be \P9;ssed with honor\ \Passed\, o·r \Fa1led.'' * * * Ourselves as Others See \Us Coeds· at Syracuse have dlifferent ideas of their men, of course, but the Daily Orange man.aged to find lfl..li.te a few who agree<L on some points, and so they published the resu1ts. It was f·ound tlmt the aver- age girl thinks the men too col- legiate and unsophisticated. One gil'l stated that \The Syracuse man acts as though he were toe> young to go to school. . . . The fellows on the whole act like a bunch of farm- ers.\ They don't think much of lrow the male m-akes love, either, but all of them ex:pressed the thought that there wer-e exceptions. * * \ Academic AtmospheJ•e Teo Thick? A cat who came out second best in an epic fight with a fan-belt, caused much trouble for the Li- brary authorities at Haverford. The cat, a gray one of un,aerta.in lineage, wa.s untangled from .tbe fan motor and disposed of ·by a S)Tmpathetic janitor. Despite the official ex- planation, many students believe the subject died of bO>-redom. * .. \ Professorial Considel'a'tion A new post has 'been started at John Hopkins University by profes- sors who were somehow affected by rows of serenely sleeping under- g·raduates. An officia.l \walter-up- per\ now patrols the aisles of the lecture rooms, 'Prodding drowsy students in the ribs. \' * .. An Insinuation? The College dramatic society of St. Lawren'Ce University have pre- sented \R. U. R.\ a play by Karl Capek, as their winter production. The play is based upon a theme dra-yvn from the mach.ine .age, and dep1cts a revolt by the robots in a robot factory. S. R. C. ' t i ,' I [

the hot me, the AI- of best rior and ely boy row In- cut>- 3 side re- re- the a the tion few cry son, the ent- rent but find ome the col- One of the best belt, Li- The age, otor ex- at cted the of pre- and in a c. J. \. \~ i ~ l TEE CONCORDIENSlS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1934 Three Swarthmore Quintet to Oppose Union II ere Tomorrow Have won i Burton Is En~ered \\\~\\\\\'\'\\'\\\\\\'\\'\'\\'\'\ Games In lntercolleg~ates ~,::,:.:.:.~:~:::::.::::J Pennsylvanians Eight Out of Nine ~----------~--~--~--~------- second Half Rally Fans to Sextet Drops Fast Prevent Rochester's Second VictOI'y Over Union, 29-27 Middle bury Tilt Union High Jumper Leaped Six: Feet in Mercury Games; Union Gets Three Thirds Emory Burton, Union sophomore ResultH Phi Delta Theta 37, Kappa Al- pha 8. ---- ::;tar high jumper and .pole vaulter, Delta Upsilon 25, Lambda Chi Al- pha 5. Although the Garnet five's 29 to 27 defeat by Rochester Saturday night did not enhance the appear- ance of the Union record, it gave some promise of a good showing. Melbye Scores Two Quick who broke the Garnet indoor record Goals in Second •Period to in the high jump with a leap of ex- actly six feet at the Second Annual Give Visitm·s 3 ·tO 2 Victory Mercu1y A. c. games at Albany Sat- Alpha Phi Delta 36, Kappa Nu 14. Neutrals 29, Phi Sigma Kappa 27. Delta Phi 25, Psi U:psilon 20. against Swarthmore here tomor- The varsity hockey sextet lo:;t a tow night at 8 o'clock in the Alum-· return game to a vastly improved ni gymnasium. In the first Ro- and heavier Middlebury team on chester-Union game a month ago, the General Electric rink Saturday the Y ellowjackets won by four afternoon by a 3 ,to 2 score. The points. Saturday one field goal was· temperature was above ze1 o, but the margin of victory, a fact which cold enough to provide hard ice may be considered as an improve- which speeded the game up cont>id- ment in Union's game, especially erably, in sharp contrast to the fi·rst since the second contest was game, which was won by the Gar- . played on the U. of R. court. 'net, 1 to 0, and which was played Swarthmore Unknown Quantity on soft ice. Swarthmore comes here as a No scoring was done by either more or less unknown quantity. It team in the first period until the will be the first time the two closing minutes, when Fox received schools have met in the cage game. a pass from Captain Hutton and The Pennsylvanians sport an im- pressive record, with eight vic- slipped the puck past Hickox for tories in nine contests. Victims in- the first tally. elude Wesleyan, Lehigh, Lafayette Middlebury Scores and .stevens Tech. The University of Pennsylvania alone has been Middlebury opened the next. pc- able to down Keystone State five, riod with two goals in ra;pid succes- 28 to 12. I.Jike the Unicm team, .sion, both scored by Melbye, the Swarthmore's last minute spurts Maroon left wing. The game was featured their victories. Both Wes- very .fast at this time and was also leyan and Lehigh were beaten in quite rough, ,but neither team did ·belated rallies. Wesleyan has de- any more scoring until the final feated Union, 39 to 29, while Stev- period. ens Tech lost to Union, 33 to 25, and In the last frame Dwyer netted to Swarthmore, 24 to 18. the puck for the third Maroon goal Three of the five Swarthmore and from then on Union played a starting cagers are three letter men. four man offense. When the period captain Johnny Abrams, a forward, was about half over Jenkins scopped has been high scorer for two sea- up the puck in front of the Middle- sons, averaging over ten points a bury cage and eluded the goalie for game. He was captain of baseball the second and last Garnet score. in his junior year, playing at sec- The last eig,ht minutes of play was ond base, and in the fall plays full- a final attempt to score on the part back on the eleven. Jim 'l'urner, at ::Jf Union but to no avail, and the center, is second highest scorer. He count remained at 3 to 2. is captain-elect of football and a '!'he line-up: member of the track team. John POS. ~lltldlehury l~l f'nion i2l Prest is a scoring guard, and has G Hirkox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . \\'althrr>< seen action on the football and HD Bnl«·Y ...................... Fox track teams. Jim Bucltingham and LD ~!al'lean ............... Willi;~m\ 'l'om Hallowell fill the other for- G Dwyer .................. Jen!{ill~ ward and guard positions. R\\\ Swelt · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Bergman L\1\ ~lelbye .................. Hutton Jacket Lead Too Great SJ>ares-:\li•ltl!ebury: l'hilliJey, Brooks, Dan1e~. Ullinn: Httested, I•'l•ll'i'l Corhin, The 17 to 8 lead held by Roches- Summerhaye\. ter at the end of the first half S<'Ol'lllg proved too much Saturday night for Union's last-half rally to over- come. The Y ellowjaclrets assumed the lead shortly after the beginning of the fray and never were headed, Moffett's long shot with two min- utes left remaining as the Garnet's final bid for victory. The U. of R. scoring was divided, while Joe Mi- lano was Union's lone effective point-getter with thirteen counters. The visitors ied from the field 11 to 10, but were outscored from the free-throw line 9 to 5. The summary: UNION (27) Fg. FP.Pts McDowell, rf . . . . .. . . . 1 1 3 Rotunda, rf . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 1 Semerad, If . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Waldron, c ........ , ... 1 0 2 Milano, c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 1 13 Dow, lg ............... 1 2 4 Moffett, rg . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 0 4 Smith, lg ............. 0 0 0 Totals ............... 11 5 27 I•,ir~t per!o•i· 1. LTninn, FflX, 1;; ~Rf) se,·ond period-2, ~lid•llehury. !Vlelhye. 4: l3; 3, ~lid!llehury, :.Ielhy<>, -1: 51i. Thin! perioll-·1, :\lid!llehury, DwyPJ', 6:21; 5, Union, Jenldns 1 1~ ::~2. l'enaltle><-Ha!{P)', Brnnl<~. Mermen Lose Meet To Trinity, 50 to 21 Schuman Again Takes Diving To Score Union's Lone First; Onderdonk Is Trinity Star Saturday afternoon a strong Trinity swimming team defeated Union's mermen in the Foote Pool, 51 to 20, for their second victory in ROCHESTER (29) FG. FP.Pts as many years. The best event of Soehner, rf . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Zutes, rf .............. 0 Blowers, If . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Craytor, c . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 McCulley, lf . . .. . .. . .. i 1 1 4 0 () . 7 the meet occurred when Onderdonlt, 1 closely followed by Captain Neese 8 of Union, swam the 150 yard back- 4 2 stroke in 1:57.1. Onderdonk again Geddes, rg ........ , . . . 2 Totals ............... 10 3 9 7 29 Score at half time-Rochester 17, Union 8. Foul& committed-Un.ion 14, Rochester 11. Committed four personal fouls-Smith. Referee- Beach. Time of halves-20 minutes. ---0--- Chess Team Wins Two Of Tht·ee League Matches captured a close first place in the 220-yard free style event, when he was pushed to his greatest efforts by Bo·b Oppen·heim. The former also swam on the winning t·elay team. ''Boom\ Schuman returned· to his performances of four previous meets by easHy taking first place in the diving contest-the only five- point place taken by the Garnet men. The summaries follow: The Edison Club and C. R. Ful- 22 0-yard free style-Won by On- ton's team were the opponents of derdonk, Trinity; second, Oppen- the college chess club in the tour- heim, Union; third, Motten, Trinity. nament matches of the Schenec- T·ime-2:37.7 . tady Chess League played during• 50-yard free style-Won by Mow- the week-end. Fulton's team was bray, Trinity; second, Hall, Trinity; easily defeated, 3lh to lh, in a match third, Griswold, Union. Time--25.7. pil.ayed Friday evening at the Kappa Diving- Won by Schuman, Union Nu house. Samuel Simon, '34, Rich- (74.31); second, Keens, Union <55.- ard Passenger, '37, and Jerome 67); third, Angus, Trinity (48.50 .. Rosen, '35, won their games but A. 440-yard free style-W·on by Mot- Schmidt of Fulton's team held · h d K 1 '37 t d ten, Trinity; second, Oppenheim. R1c ar e sey, 0 a raw. Union; third, Ellsworth, Trinity. The Edison Club -played the Time-5:56.8. Union team Saturday afternoon in 150-yard backstroke-Won by On- North College, winning 3 to 0. A tlerdonk, Trinity; second, Neese, postponed match, in which Union Union; third, Dickerson, Trinity. took two games to the Edisort Time--1:57.1. Club's one, was also played at this time. R. Kelsey, R. Pa.ssenger and 200-yard breast .stroke-Won by c. Hinkley played for the college Colt, Trinity; second, Sinclair, Trin- club in both matches. ity; third, Argersinger, Union; Time -2:54.9. The c~ub has made ;:trrangements 100-yard free style- Won by Mow- for a match with Rook's chess club of Saugerties, to be played here this bray, Trinity; second, Hall, Trinity; Saturday. A successful test gam·e third, Griswold, Union. Time-60 with Poughkeepsie by radio !ndi- seconds. cates the probability of a complete 400-yard relay-Won by Trinity match over the air in the near (Mowlbray, Hall, Onderdonk, Day) future. Tlme-4:12.8. urday night, will go to New York City to represent Union in the high jump at the I. C. A. A. A. A. games on March 5. Wilford H. Ketz, the Garnet track mentor, in making this announce- ment this morning stated that Bur- ton has a chance of placing in this event in which such stars as George Spitz, captain of the New Yori{ Uni- versity track team, and present world's record holder will compete. Mercury Games Considering the excellent field, Union did exceptionally well in the Met·cury games. Bill Waldron ran a fast race in the fifty-five meter high hurdle event to come in a close third. Leon Naguzeuski heaved the twelve-pound shot a distance of forty-seven feet to take .third in this event, while Don Moulton surprised everyone and took .third in the four hundred meter run with a great burst of tlpeed over the last fifty yards of the course. Saturday's meet ends the winter activities for the Garnet track team. The candidates for the var- sity will be expected to work out three times a week on the Alumni board track until March first when the first .official call for track can- didates will be issued. ·----a--- Radio Club to Hear Dean Berg Talk On Radiation Phi Sigma Delta 20, Alpha Del- ta Phi 19. Schedule Tonight--7:30, Theta Nu Epsilon vs. Pht Gamma Delta. 8:30, Beta Theta Pi vs. Phi Sigma Delta. Friday night-Delta Upsilon vs. Phi Sigma Kappa. 8:30, Neutrals vs. Alpha .t>hi Delta. ---- -- 0----- SOPHOIV!ONE NOTICE Sophomores who wish to become Candidate Managers for Spring Sports are requested to report to the Director of Athletics at his of- fice in the gymnasium this week, submitting a copy of their class schedule at the time. ------- 0 -- -- ENTERS TOURNAM·ENT Delta Phi has entered a team in the intramural basketball competi- tion, supplanting Theta Delta Chi which has withdrawn. The former will assume the place of Theta Del- ta Chi in the standing. ----•01--- FRESH.M:AN NOTICE Dean Ernest J. Berg will speak on the \Fundamentals of Radia- tion,\ at the next meeting of the Radio Club to be held Friday after- noon at four o'clock in Room 22 in the Electrical Engineering build- . ing ALl members of the club are re- quested to be present at this lec- ture, and any students who are in- terested are invited to attend. All freshmen interested in trying out for the Business Board of The Concordiensis are requested to meet Wednesday in the Publication office at 2 p. m. There >vill be a meeting of the entire Business Board at that time. The HAWTHORNE CLUB The Radio Club has recently pro- cured a phone transmitter with which they can converse with other short wave stations as fai distant ns Iowa, and have consented to al- low other students to use it. If any- one wishes to talk by \short wave\ to some friend who has a short wave receiving set in his home, see Alfred Bischoff at the Sigma Phi Place. Dine and Dance at THE HOFBRAU 721 STATE ST. Cool, Sparkling Beverages and German Style Lunches Served Phone 2-5053 1:::m::m:m:::m::m:::m:::m:m:::mmm::m::m:m:::: !liThe Acme Barberlll Ill Shop 1!1 II :::~:~:;:~J ~~ 1 mmm:;m;;m;m;;;;;;m:mmm:mm;m;;m;;m:mm UNION'S OLD STANDBY Our Work and Prices Are Competitive GARNET TAILOR 305 Liberty St. Tel. 4-0122 SANDWICHES and COLD DRINKS 226 Lafayette Street We Have the Finest DE LUXE MOTOR COACHES To be had in the Capitol District BE CONVINCED-CALL G. A. WELCOME & SON Phone 4-8444 1171 Union St. Mias r roy, Mia& Catsk:illa 'vlin Rtchmond Mtss )yracus~ 200neau~an~OO • M IU&PiilS~\''d U II C alifonua ASTI! B. S cghttcs Williams Defeats. Garnet Swordsmen Kuhner of Williams Wins All Of His Bouts to Get Seven Points; Many Close THts Narth Explains Opportunities Offered By Union Outing Club Union is fortunately situated for winter sports, said Robert North, '36, in chapel Friday morning. \There are excellent skii trails as near as the Rotterdam Hills, while loca1 sports clubs have organized hansportation facilities to out- standing Adirondack skii centers. The speaker proceeded to narrate Although they made a fotmidable a very amusing story of his first at- appearance on the mat, the Union tempt at Seandinavian siding. Al- fencing team was defeated by the though his partners· were expert Williams Col·lege swordsmen at skiiers, he soon became inured to V\Tilliamstown Saturday by a :;~ore the situation and enjoyed hilllilelf of 11 to 6. Eight of the seventeen immensely. As may be seen, the bouts were decided by one point novice as well as the a.dept can real- margins, showing that the final ize enjoyment score in no way indicates a one- In conclusion he spoke of the op- ::;ided match. · portunities offered by the Union The outstanding man in the con- College Outing Club and explained test was Kuhner of Williamt>, a plans which included joint outings German student, who won all of his with other colleges in this vicinity. sabre, epee, and .foil matches for a ----0·----- total of seven points. Mert Zubres GOYERl'aiENT IN BUSINESS and Bob Slobod of Union each won SUBJECT OF CONFERENCE lwo of their matches, while Mot-ri- son and Cha.mp accounted for the other Union points. The match was not played on in- tercollegiate rules, as the judges, three Williams students and two Union representatives, were not clear on their meaning. In many cases the head judge failed to take a concensus of opinion of the JUdg-es. The Purple team will en- gage Union in a return contest here p1 obably on February 24. The summary follows: l'lahl'e-K•uhner (\\') defeated ~lor­ rison { U), 5-4; Hamilton (\V), defeat- ed Ilngers <U), 5-·1; Kuhner (\V), de- feated Hogers (U), 5-l; Hamilton {\\'), defeated ~lorrisoll (U), 5-2. Uaion College students are cor- dra·lly invited to attend a confer- ence on \Government in Business\ to be held at Williams CoHege, March 2 and 3. The fee for dele- gates is $2.75, covering all expenses but transportation. All students in- terested are requested to see Pro- fessor A. Gordon Dewey at his of- fice in S-3. Official U. C. Photographers Portrait and Commercial Photographing THE WHITE STUDIO 215 State Street U. C. Representative T. WHIPPLE, Chi Psi EI>PP-Kuhner <'V), <lefpafeil :lfnrri- son (Ul, 2-u; ZuhrE>s CU), <lef~n.t<>d !-:mith tW), ~-1; I<ulmer defeated Zu- 1!111111111111!1111111!1111111111111111111111111111!11. hres, 3-2; .\lorrl~on tlefeate<l l';mith, 2-1. E 111 i Foil-I<uhner defeated :;]nhn•l (ll). 11 THE FARM 11 • 5-1; :\lorse (\V), defe>tte•l ChamJ> 1 C). 5-3; Zuhres defeated Hal~Jilt.,u, 5-3; :THE COUNTRY ClUB:l Kuhner clefeated Champ, ~-~; :\Iorse 11!1 11 defeated Zuhres. 5-:l; Slohod <Ideated 11 RESTA.URANTS 111 Hamilton, 5-2; Kuhner (!t>featt.~cl Zu 1 nt>-., 111 . 5-4; Slobod defeated 1\Ior~e. 1·0; l'harnp 18 !!!! defeated Ham-ilton, 5-:t llll!lli!B'!IIIii!lllllllll111111111111111llllllllilllllli HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade ROSENDALE FLOWER S H 0 P ScheneCJ1lady's Telegraphic Florist Flowers of Quality 124 Jay Street Phone 4-0MO Opp. City Hall ''WHEN A FELLER NEEDS A FRIEND\ Placed on the market a year ago, this pipe mixture made many friends before it had a line of advertising. Aged in the wood for years ••• BRIGGS is mellow, packed with flavor, biteless! Won't you try a tin and let genial BRIGGS speak for itself? KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of CELLOPHANE C P. Lorilla.rd Co • ., In~

ll:i! 1 • \-tl tll'iUI,\1 \\ l':!l.llt''\\ \nd I ;Hill' \tillllllt~tntiun \ ,,,,,, ·~ t,.>\' IHII'II'Ill \'~IIIII-, , ;; '-'- I:,, l•, , '1 .t ( ,. n t 1 • t1 I::~ nl, 1, 1 !;, Ill 'I;) \>\ !I 11.111 II 1\' t ' I! • ! I ~ I ,, ,,, ·, •• \' d 11 .. 11;11 f .. · 1\ .,, · .... \ , ,, ,, :-·. ,,, ; ,· '' h.t:l / ... \ -.-.t·mhi_, l'npir 1 .... J.illCIIJil', \\ill to :-\tll'l't•~·d •• ~ f ·, ; •. ::' : .. I 'I ! \ • '! 1· 1 ' ' f :,.-: . I~ ·i J•J·l.l I '..:: ,J,:t , ;._ ~ ~-· \ c.: ,·,!.·! I'JJI;·t .• ~ ·t. \ lt; \. 0 ] 0 J:; ,_ :~.1.\••1 :-tltti lJlt'Bl;t( -..tttlt .t\'t tllllltiatt·tl dlllllH~ h\' t'l;t• ('aJidtdaft• 'J'h:1t 1:-- t•Xt'l hll~ Ulltkl ~t.ldualt-· It!•· }JI..t l~t·t:1 a. JH>.:·-itt\-t· and dt··ltn:tt· ;o~lld dut·t't' h:I.Jtpa • :·til :-.:1~ t., Jliilll'l ~ Ill l'ol- llt.11LH'IH't• llll lht· tltl\llt':tl l'lt· t 1 l a11 t' , \ li '' < :• .!/ < 1! l.t It· 1' .. • lt·:..!t· \\t tt•qtillt·· Jlt.l ti!IJ~ !lutl yuu l'ltdi\Itl:t;d <11\d :111 tll:·-:tttltlr·ll !t ,,'• ~, jll'lll't' I '\.:lilt' : j. \ .. : ...... -, :J. .. 'I I '!' ,, I!· \' ·•' 'I'. ' ,, •. •h !. ,\ l.t•t'liilt'l \\Ill l'h~ lt!-.II'Uilll'lll' Ftid.11 j' ' ' I, , : 1 ·, ! . 1 , : · • , ~ t·. ,, ', ; • r • ·,;- . 1 ! h i, · , .... ~ 1 a.;d,t J• };,•' tl ,_Ul::_: ' ', ,. 1 ! I, • ~ : ! . :•· l:' . \ \' !. t 11 'I ' ' • \ 1 \ , \ t· I • '1 t' ' , ~ ' I ', \ ' I IJ l I . Jj ,.:_ I ' t t· t ! I• ' ' ! I ', ( \ I I f • ' { f t 'I I-\ J)t ( 1 111 I :,t II .t lit.. \\ t. tfll , ,• II ' t j,t \ t' .Ill\ It \\\:t- t !::t t :~~··-· t • ·t! h• i'r .o~ !'·.1 J:t·!:, K.tp !.-. ·l,' .-: \ ·•l~::t.lil/.d~lt•ll 1'• 1;. t•·_, :~. ... ;.-t !. 1 1 r •• 1;, .. 1.1 1-\..,t.p , ... ,\, ,, . ~tl !~t···:.: .!It•• !>tl! _..., !It·lltt-' ! . l!. 1 ,. I ' '~I.' i -I •• t.J I • Ill! (.I,..:_- :· ·' • •II' J• J >I' 'Ill t\ t'i,..::·t] :-.. ,\ • ·! ',\ I • •1 ~>Ill 111 t't ·t •• \ I ; I·· ,. :-. \ • \ .... I Ill It ll 1' \\ 1 · l.,: !,.,' I ,tiLt l ! ;t·J 'I' I:]\\ 1' ·, •. :. •• : 1 Jl •il • t r ·\ 11:.:1.1 Elh·r~ ( 'ondemns lnarth e Pulie~ of Phi Bl't a Kappa '•·!:\ •. ![ •lt·lll.l.]i11 ., • ,t:, 'll< j ''t ;, I' I t \\I' ,,, ... tt'Jtlt• ~ ' ·• \ ' I ' ' 1 ! I • I I I : I h.IH•\\ tht· 1<~1'1,. lilt! th:tt \till ha\•· l'li1 l~··l:t h t(•pa 1.~ lit ·Hi''·IJ••I l''':--1 ldt·:t-- .thuut t h• t:tt t~ \till ~~llt~\\'. ttull ltt t•Xt·J t llt!lti•··llt t' ,,f :...:,tt·;-t1 Tl.t· 1 ,., ... ! d ,,f t )!, .• it .11; - .. \!'I ItT 1- \\,.,,.:_hi' :1nd J-t·t lll:.tllt llt't• .n tln··nt':tl t'\!dt-'tlt't• llf ttJt·· fll._,t ]t,j\lllt'illt'll 1 \\'tlrl~ fJJ.d J- q.ttitiJf:tf'J\'t· :titd ·tl l'Cil\ l t.J, h.L-1· tur llld...:,t1l~ tJ ........ t 1 t>ltd I· l.l!hlllt •·llttlllJIHI··!~ r,, hlt•'ttl !Jft ttl ~llllli' !;t:--1\ t•Jll.lt t•l\ uut-..Jdt• ··1:1.-- t•\t'l \'lltlt It•IIIII ··\.t't<·t:---t·:-- uti•l t'ht· \\·••II\ a- ('an ·Ht~U.(',h Into St•t•urular\ :\\t'hm•l.. -t;..::nt·d 11\ tlJt·· J:Jt'ult'\, ;.t ,.,.,.Jl Wid 1 ··I 1 tll I:\ta. K:tpJJ:t t·;u\ t•\t-lt a tvn di:----·t·ttatlt•ll an·d t·XtJ:t 1 lllll dt•'llllllt· pn-...ttl'l't· lll!t·lit-< tu;d influ· <'tll:·tl :tt-lltt•\•·tut·llt 1~~-~·uu tu !h1· ,•ntt·· cHit'::-..tdt· l'tJ!It·l.!t' \\'all:-- l'ht .!.ll'tll•IJ \t-'<·tl J!lt .. ·t•lllt•d t':tlly Ill tLt· J!t•l':t 1'.\.~tppa call I t•:wh llll.i• ~~·('tolld- :---t'llltlt ~···:tr (llt'It.tltd t·,,, and ':tl~ :---t'lloul. ... litll Jll lt····rtLJt·.-- hy Jt>~ jUd~t·t! b~ :1 I'•t\pt•II~ ,.,,,,,~tiltdt d 1 !Ilt'llllH'l:--- tl) tht• ... ,·hotd llti,Y~ illlll <\•lllltnt-..:---ltlfl \\ltl:tn ltw l)lll Ut•ta: ~:111--- tall :~tttdt·uL---.. \\'Lt•t.ltt·I 111 nd 1\.aJ•J•i.t llltlt I•JtJ l!tlo~. 1'-:tpt~=t ,, .. ;._.:,· oi ~t·lttHll :·tft· )t-,·t'ttlt··d t'' Irwll \\'ttllld rhu:--: }Jt' ,j JH l:;lt'l\t tlt•f:nltt· t.al dt-·;tth I but Ill lilt lilla !'t• t'tl·lli'PJ •l'!•···' lllflllt·Ilit II• t .t 11,1-lt' ,,. t·lln·· \\:th ··lH•\•I f;u·'Jitl•--... Ill \\·11:< I •Jiltlt! tll .tJI<•t·J:t-'1, l!tcdtt•lt, 111>1 -!Ill tht· } 1 l:l }:,·t':t 1-\.tj•J•:t (\ f'''' td~ apJtlll\·:n...: \\L:!l a t.tt ulry ha.d t·t_ . ..,.,.,,I \\tit: t,, ... IJ; . .'lltt·! t !:1 ... ~ ~t·h-d ~dlc·ady ~tJ'}lltl\t d \'I'Jtht•ll' lt'1• t•IH I' ulc· :tn•l :--Iu:d!· I _-tlldt nt' ltt;td \\lltJ tt• Pht I-~~·Lt l\.·qq_.;, Pl.! l~•·ta !u:-- ,.(~n .... tant.h p·ft,·-llin;...: tnt·t·llt·t ~~-tJ•Jt.t \<llll.:tl •~>\il 1 tiJ•:tt1 !!l 1 1J.d t'\:fll'lhf;tt•- Ill t'\J.t~idll 1 :_~ 1::- lht t'llt'k 1>! LPIJt•l:tr~ :---lltl\-,11. tLc· lill••Wi·d~~· :trtd Jwllt·•·tJll..: hl- :--;llt'lt-·t\ ,,f ~~:~II .. t \.r 1'\\t :\, ~~·.Jf~ rnl'lht•t'l~ <:tn ha1•· \'ll'h ll.t 't,,_'l 1 f• IIILUI'tl• •! J11 ' il,:t' I 1 ,,f »!lol.tt\ • t·tl<•: t, ~II t <'f Tl.t \ 1 .'1]] lt'•(llllt·])lt·Ill Ill! l'lt'i llllll :t· .t lllt'tli ~t'!) UJ• ltt~ lllt'!ll'tl ll!t-·, )'It \1'])1 l•• ·I t'l, ;-- ,,, ! f..t t· I· •ll :II }•:!1 ;..:_.I~ t: - 1 .I...' !l.t fIt •II .I!, • f 111:1:, I ! .I f't .tt l:1 11. \\Lil tt \\Ill ficol' •!Ill\ lw lllliki-'··•\·· :•·-- lllt't·l: .. d\lt ,!) :J11d lflditl l·tll:ll l•11!' It, tl ·;\Ill 11••1' !11 1111-IIFl>lt! lt.tnl \'\'L:t'•·\t! !t·lJ! -L! 1.1:•1 II \\•IJI'l.\ •·f pitiJ!t,·:ytr\ll !II t•J•Il -I•·I· .t. t·~~·tti''\ '.'.Ji! JI\1\!Ldd\· -Ltlt! t. t.l ,, t I,,' I I• ,,·j, t '.II - '!I I f It I I I I~ t .t t. I - tIt ']It' t It I; t lt \ ; tl ~ t t ,. t t . ' t 1 1 I I• Ill I•· II :' ' •• I t' 1•1 'I •II I\ lll: !.I'. •\\ It !lilt l. \ • I I ' '-\ t' t ·t 1.1'! 'II I ''I 1' ~·I l 'I :11 I t I,, i A Better Position You Can get it llundrt·d,.. ol te,t<:hers, ~tudents ,md collel!;e gmductles wdl e<~rn two hundred Jol- l.u, o1 !110ft\ thi, ~ummer. SOC:\:\ YOL:. llundrt:>d,., of otht:>rs will securP h<>ttPr pob- tll<llt .tnd\ i.tii-:l\T sahrv for next vear. YOL (',.\:\ BL 0:\E OF TIIL:\1, Complt>tt· :n!llttfl,tli<>tl .tnd ht·lp!~l suggesti;ms will be m.tdt·d on wn·t!Jl of a thr<'t' <'t•nt st.11up T,·H ~.•·!- nddr•·-~ ll.,(d T .\11 4• 1 'ht·t- ;,,j.!J•·-.- llt·J•l ~ • Stags Wanted in Upper Hudson Phi Beta Kappa's Continental Teachers Agency, Inc. 1812 Downing St. Denver, Cc>~ .... Covers the ENTIRE UnitE:d St<. -\• !, .. .,[ (}fjj, t.d,l 't 1111 nl<~Y WIT<> us your \'\''\!l''\'\' .d .... r r·x 1 ., ll>W, it SJH'ed j-; url.!<>lll 1 \\ \\Ill r•·· t'l\t· . onlplt·!t•, lr•· .. • .. nhdt·ntt.tl rq><>tts 1,, \'\ rn.td \\!thin )b h•>llh The best tobacco for pipes comes fi\om Ke1ztttcky,. a1zd it's called ~~lVhite BztrleyJ' 'VTE usc Wh i tc Burley tn making V\' Granger Rough Cut. It comes from the Blue Grass region of Kentucky -ripe, mild leaf tobacco that just about tops thcn1 all for fragrance and flavor. From the right place on the stalk we scl<:ct the kind that's best for pipes. Then we make it into Granger by Wellman's Method and cut it up into big shaggy flakes. White Burley tobacco- made the way old man Wellman taught us how to make it- that's Granger. a seusihle package 10 Cell!S ''Cttt rough to snzoke cool\ is the U'tl)' pipe snzokers describe GrttJJger-try it ran the pipe tobacco that•s MILD the pipe tobacco that's COOL -fills seem to like ll

Four THE CONOORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1934 Federal Reserve ':Follow t~e Lights Al~ng S t · D The 'V ay Warns Aldnch attem.pted always turned out to .be member of Phi Beta Kappa eligible mental store accumulated during by tne candidate. That is exerting unsuccessful, and even his love af- was lengthily discussed and finally undergraduate life . . . Phi Beta a positive and definite and direct fairs were failur-es. He enlirsted in· l'ost, only 16 voting in its favor and Kappa can say to juniors in col- influence on the mental Hfe of an the Black Hawk war ·but never saw the rest against. I can still see Pro- lege: we require not only that you individual and an institution ... <>ction. He conducted a store, but fes.sor Bennett as he stood in his know the facts, but that you have Phi Beta Kappa is in superior .posi- his pat·tner fled: leaving Lincoln ; charactel'istic pose, legs astraddle ideas about the facts you know. tion to exert influence of great With debts which took him seven- and one hand. in his pocket arguing The record of the dean's office is weight and permanence in mental teen years to repay. Later, he against the amend:ment: \When evidence of the first requirement.: .work that ifr qualitative and so con- studied law and at fi.rst he was re- men get together they hEwe one The basis for judging the second is· tribute enormously ta broad life 0f jected: but he was later admitted to: kind of g0nd time, when women .get some task entirely outside class-: everyone. , .\ ys em In anger ··-- B M P li • \Follow the lights along the way\ Y oney . 0 Cles said Dr. Donald B. Aldrich, Rector of the Church of the Ascension in 'Failure' of Reserve System Due to Structural Weakness And Faulty Administration Credit Is Paralyzed National Government Assum- ing Role of a Central Banker By ID~NRY W. TULLOCH The \whole-hearted cooperation\ which the authorities of the Federal Reserve System have pledged to the Roosevelt administration is deep!~· significant. The fact is that the very existence of the Federal Re- Berve System has been threatened, not only by the clamor of politicians fm· the destruction of the System, but also by the fiscal operations which the government has been un- dertaking. For Reserve officials to fight the government now would be to commit suicide. The monetary policies of the R o o s e v e I t administration have brought the federal government into nearly every phase of Reserve Sys- tem operations. This development is in striking contrast with the relation between the Federal Reserve Sys- tem and the government which ex- isted during the twenties. In those years the opinion prevailed that gov- ernment interference was very urtde- <'irable. Wtth Uw development of the New Deal, however, the govern- ment has gone into banking to such an extent that the future of the Fed- eral Reserve System is extremely uncertain. Competition of R. F. C. The credit functions of the System have been paralyzed. The govern- ment, through the R. F. C., (which wM inaugurated by President Hoover, but has been expanded _g-reatly under President Roosevelt) has not only deprived the Reserve System of initiative and vitality, but has reduced its function as a pool of hank credit to little more than nom- inal proportions. Total Reserve credit outstanding on December 20 :>mounted to $2,686,000,000, of which $2,432.000,000, or over 90 per eent, was in gnvernment securities. On the same date the R. F. C. had credit outRtanding in excess of $3.000,000,- 000, of which all but about $600,000,- 000 had been extended for the finan- cing- of industty, agriculture, and comrnE'· ce-in other words, for priv- at<> intere.<;t.•. Thus the government through the R. F. C. is becoming mO\E' and more a central banker, while the Fedeml Reserve System is beC'ominc: merely a fiscal agent of the government. Deterioration of the Federal Reserve as a central 1: an king sy<'tem would appear to be prng- e;;sing rapidly. Effect of Devalued Dollar The c1evolu\~tion of the dollar is nl~o enlightening in this respect. The f'cderal Reset·ve Bariks have handed rvPr th~>ir grid !'ltoC'k• to the Treas- ury and hove rN'Pived a return rquivnlent to half the former value ,.,f tho\\ holdings. Yet they must .-till hrld 40 per cent cash reserves rgainst FPdPral RPRE'rve notes and 35 per e<>nt against deposits. The go~d ceJtificates received from the Toc•-u·v ale no longer 100 cent dol- l,ll·s. hut alP now 59 cent dollars, so t\at th<' C'a~h resPrves of the Federal IlP-'PIV<' H1nk~ ha\·e been cut to ~bout 25 and 21 pC'r cent, respec- tive>ly. And thi,; occurred at a time wrt•n tllP Ill'~l'l ve Bank:; were re- quit \'! :o u•e nne-half of their sur-, plWP-< l:obnut $139000000) to sub- ' cr ibP t<> capital stock of the Federal DPI'O'it In.'urar.cr Corporation. No dividends are paid on this stock. Fm thP!'. the TreAsury now has com- piPtP control of the foreign exC'hang-e market, rPmoving another function 1 from the Re~erve Banks. ·1 Still another example is the cam- J•aign C'<Inied on by the government ; hr th<> injeC'tion nf funds into the 1 hanks by the purchase of their pre-j ten Pel \tnC'Il:. Outwat dly. this might, P.ppear to be ~olely an effort to I 'trPngthen the banks. Achially, the bank• mu~t pay cumulative 'interest upon ~uch ~tock, and in case of de- !'mJit must submit to government control. Authorlti<'s Attack System The tr<>nd toward government hRnking and thP weakening of the FPdPoR! RPI'erve System is unmis- ta]{qhlv Pvii!Pnt. Snme authoritiPs contPn.d that the Sy~tPm has repeat- edly hiled to accomplish Its main r.hjPctiVP<'. \uch as the stabilization of busine~s. thP C\ontrol of stock ~peculation. and the stabilization of the price level. Others contend that the business depression was brought on by the open market operations pursued by the Reserve Banks in 1927. And others claim that the de- pres:;ion has been made more severe by the failurP of the System to ex- pand credit. These arguments are used to justify an attack upon the Sv;.tem. flpgardless or the validity of thelle contentions the fact remains that the Reserve System has never comprised more than one-third of the banks of the country, and has had to compete with forty-eight state banking systems. Insofar as it has failed, that failure may be traceable as much to weaknesses in structure as to faulty administration. It would seem logical either to abolish the present Federal Reserve System and establish a government central bank, or to establish a bank- ing system which could control the total banking resources of the coun- try. New York City, at Sunday m0rning chapel services. !Jr. A!dl'ich pre- ,sented a striking parallel between Life and an ocean vessel. He said that it was human nature for a ·per- sen to want congenial companion- ship during- the long voyages 0f Life, but that in a crisis a person is acpt to be very much alone, jjust as a vessel its lost or alone in a fog. Dr. Al·drich went on to say that we ·are fog bound in a sense, not by fog but by our heats and passions and that often we are becalmed. He pointed out that the captain of a modern ship has many safeguards our heats and passions and that often we are becalmed. He point- ed out that the captain o.f a mod- em S\hlp has many safeguards against fog such as lighthouc:;es and 1 a:dio beacons, but that unless he sets :;ait, all the>Oe aid>J are uselec;s. We a!::;o have many opportunities to undez·::;tan<J: Life and' to cmer,ge from the fog. but un!ec:;:; we take advantage of them and set the sail, they are useless. Continuing Dr. Aldrich :;aid that in order to live the best possible iife it was necessary to watch for ·'the lights along the way and to learn from them. \Lights along the way\ are evidences of the grace, power, and benevolence of God which may be seen in many com- monplace events of everyday life. By taking advantage of these op- portunities to learn about the good- ness of the Lord. we may pl>ot the course of our ship of Life so that we may reach the King·dom of HeaVL'll. u l{etz's Assembly Topic Is Lincoln's \Vill to Succeed the bar in 183:r. Lincoln practiced together they have another kind of room exercises and the work as-: Can Reach Into Second~y Schoo:ls law in Springfield, Illinois from good time, .but when men and worn-. signed by the faculty; a well writ- 4. \Phi Beta Kappa can exert a 1839 to 1858 during whiCh time he en get together they don't have any ten dissertation and extra-curri- definite positive intellectual influ- tried more cases than. any other kind of good time.'' It was that cular achievement, begun in the. ence outside c01lege walls. • , Phi lawyer in the territory. He feJ.l in speech that kept our Phi Beta Kap- junior year, presented ·early in the Beta Kappa can reach into second- :ove with Ann Rutledge but :;he pa si:;tem out of the organization. senior year, prepared for and ary schools-not in lectures by its died sh0t·t1y after plane:; of a mar- Perhaps the modern Phi Be-ta Ka.p- judg<ed by a propln'ly constituted: members to the scho{l)l boys and riage had been arran~ed. It took pa would: fit ·better into our scheme' commissi0n withip the Phi Beta' girls (all students wl+ether in col- longer for Lincvln to fc·rget this set- of things--she could share our cig- Kappa circle. Phi Beta Kappa' lege or school are lectured to men- back than any of the others. arets if not our ·pipes and cigars would thus be a positive definite: tru death) but in Intimate confer- Professor Ketz closed his talk by and as the .flow of wit at our meet• direct influence, not a mere sec- ence with school faculties in which saying that all of Lincolns' faiJ.ures ings has never been very spiritu- onder of another's motion, not si:m- the Phi Beta Kappa College pro- \\ ere arming him with the courage, ous, that would not debar her·. This, ply approving what a .faculty had fessor with his lighter class ached- skill, pertseverance, and the will to. is a matter for futur·e thought. . already approved without reference ule and smaller student load, with succeed which was to guide the ___ o----- ____ to Phi Beta Kappa. . . Phi Beta his constantly refreshing intellec- country in time of a great crisi>O. ·Kappa's younger counterpart ln,,tual experiences ·in expanding his Ellery Condemns Inactive the circle of honorary societies, the knowledge and perfecting his Spencer Lecturer Win Play p l' f Ph' B t K Society of Sigma Xi, twelve years methods can sh!!ire with the sec- 0 ICY 0 . . I e a appa ago formulated just that sort of. ondary schoo.] teacher. This will ~ative Instruments Friday requirement for election as a mein- stir up his mental life, .prevent . ber; a dissertation in English· stagnation and' make his teaching which will not only be understood· less mechanical and mind !tilling. but that will not be misunderstood ... Whatever refreshes and in- -worthy of publication in repu- · spires a faculty will inevitably and table periodicals, describing facts· beneficiaHy affect the student body. perfidiously unknown, uncovered whether in college or in school. .. \ (Continued from Page 1) and demmely tinkling Yang Chin, or dulcimet-. On these, with corn- mendable versality, he played brief melodies. \He then sang, W·ith slight piano accompaniments, the racy street cries of fishmongers, vegetable venders, an·d hat seller:5, .as well as coolie work songs; brief melodies authentic in their strange timbre and use of fractional tones. Yet his a.udience seemed to enj0y most his own piano tone-pictures, utilizing Chinese themes and harmonized with excellent taste and discretion to sugge:;tion, is so far as possi:ble nn a Western instrument, the color and fPE'ling· of thE' melodies them- selves. They are admirably done. \The audience was enthusiastic, and Mr. Levis played several en· cores.\ ------0- --- (Continued from Page 1) its own control. lt can demand from all candidates an id·ea or two -instead of an ability to repro- duce on call a few .facts from a A BeHer Position You Can get it Hundreds of teachers, students and college graduates will earn two hundred dol- lars or more this summer. SO CAN YOU. Hundreds of others will secure better pos- ition and a larger salary for next year. YOU CAN BE ONE OF THEM. Complete information and helpful suggestions will be mailed on receipt of a three cent stamp. (Teachers address Dept. T. All others address Dept. S.) \Abraham Lincoln's succeBs in Stags Wanted in Upper life seemed to be built on the many H d Ph' B K ' Continental Teachers Agency. 1 Inc. 1812 Downing St. Denver, Co 1 ~. failures which he experienced,\ said ll son l eta appa s Covers the ENTIRE United Stc ' Professor Wilford H. Ketz in daily I --- I assembly Saturday. . P·rofedsor Ketz tolu o;cveral ne11: <Contmued from Page ll , School Officials! You may wire us your vacancies at c.ur e:x.p~nse, if speed is urgent. anecdotes of the life of Lincoln, and I notes of that meeting show that an 1 l also some of .the old ones. Any sort amendment to the by-law:; on the of business venture which Lincoln election of members making any You will receive complete, free confidential reports by air mail within 36 hours. lc) 1934, LIGGETT & MYERS ToBACCO Co, a sensible package 10 cents ran The best tobacco for pipes comes from Kentucky, . and it's called ~'White Burley'' 'VJE use White Burley in making VV Granger Rough Cut. It comes from the Blue Grass region of Kentucky -ripe, mild leaf tobacco that just about tops them all for fragrance and flavor. From the right place on the stalk we select the kind that's best for pipes. Then we make it into Granger by Wellman's Method and cut it up into big shaggy flakes. White Burley tobacco-made the way old man Wellman taught us how to make it-that's Granger. ncut rough to smoke cool\ is the way pipe smokers describe Granger-try it the pipe tobacco that's MILD 1he pipe tobacco that's COOL _..foils seem to !t-he it

f an .•. posi- con- of a Phi its and col- pro- with his his sec- will lling. in- and body. .. \ it Levis To Illustrate Spencer Lecture Tonight With . His ,Compositions' , Vol., LVII., No. 35 Acting President Says Budget . Curtailments Must Be M.1.de ·In Letter to Student Council Hopes to Revi~ve Cou1·ses Phns Include Year of 1934-5 Only, 1935-6 Not Arranged Last week the Student Council went .on record as favoring the re- tention of two courses in American ' and English literature which have recently been dropped from the curriculum. Alexander Turner, secretary of the Council, wrote to Dr, Ellery stating the council's ac- tion. Dr. Ellery's reply follows: First, let me say that suggestions from thoughtful students regarding the life in the college are always welcome and are given the most careful and sin<lere consideration. In particular we count recom- mendations looking to raising the quality of our intellectual work to a high plane. High quality of work is independent ot the courses the college offers. .Second, let me say that curtail- ment in the number of courses in the various fields of study is forced by circumatances beyond our con- t. ol. Within the last two years, our · income has been reduced by ap- proximately $100,000, or about one- fifth our total budget. Last year the det~rease in income was met in part by a general cut in faculty salaries. Since we desire to avoid a second salary cut, this year's re- trenchment was made in all oper- ating costs, other than salaries. P:repare for Further Reduction Third, we must be prepared for further reduction in income. With this in prospect all divisions of study were directed last September to re- duce the number of courses for each field in the division to six- one course each for Freshxnan and Sophomore years, and two courses each for Junior and Senior years. An exception was made in the field of English, because there are here two distinct lines of work-a study of literature and a study of com- position. Hence it this field three courses in each of the Junior and Senior years are continued, instead of two allowed in other fields. The alternative to this curtailment in courses is a second general salary cut, and the administration will not consider that way of reducing the college budget. Curtailments Are Temporary Fourth, it can not be too strongly r·eiterated that these curtailments in curricula are temporary. That can not be stated too emphatically. With return of our financial re- sources, the first action that will be taken will be the restoration of faculty salaries to the basis of three years ago; and the se<~ond action will be the expansion of our cur- ricula! I earnestly ask that all four of these statements of facts be held constantly in mind when reviewing the state of the college and the de- cisions of the faculty and adminis- tration. Please keep those four state-· ments of facts uppermost in thought, as I call your attention to the following details regarding in- struction in the field of English. 1. At present three optional Eng- lish courses are offered to Sopho- more A. B. students. Two must temporarily be omitted. The one retained is the one which at pres- ent is most in demand. 2. At present seven elective courses in English in any one :year are offered Juniors and Semors. These must be reduced to six and two of the six are to be in compo- sition. The recommendation of .the English Instructional staff was ac- cepted. Aim of English lilstructional Sta.ff 3. The English instructional staff and the entire faculty of the col- lege are concerned to make more effective the training in correct use of spoken and written English. You know, probably better than we, how widespread among the under- graduates is the loose use of Eng- lish. Obviouslv the most im;portant period in the very necessary work of improving thls condition is that of the Freshman and Sophomore years. The number of students for whom each teacher is responsible must be kept small, else the work can not be done well. There will hereafter be eleven Freshman sec- tions in English, and nine Sopho- more seCitions. The total number of teaching hours for the staff will therefore be: Freshman Eng., 11 sections .. 33 hrs. Sophomore Eng,, !l sections .. 27 hrs. .Junior English, 3 courses. . . . 9 hrs. Senior English, 3 courses ... , 9 hrs. Totals for English ........ 78 hrs. (Continued on Page 4) • StS Julius J. Sitney Is-Chosen Valedictorian For 1934 C0111mencemen t UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS CHARLES S. BRIDGMAN HOBEHT W. GURRY LESLm fl. LOXG Leading Orchestras of Coun- try Bid Within Budget for Dance Scheduled for May 11 Same Price As Last Year I --- Six Dollars .Couple If Ticket Is Bought Prior to May 7 A sixteen-hundred dollar budget approved by the Student Council, fo:v this year's Junior Prom was it was announced yesterday by Charles L. Dain, Jr, chairman of the committee for the Junior Prom scheduled for May 11. With that to work on, the committee was thus enabled to go ahead and get bids from leading orchestras throughout the <~ountry which will be free on that date. The committee has received re- plies from Glen Gray and his Casa Lorna orchestra, Little Jack Little's orchestra, Ozzie Nelson, who played at the 1933 Promenade, George Hall, Leon Belasco, and Enoch Light, all of whom have submitted bids within the budget approved by the Student ·Council. Glen Gray's Casa Lorna Orchestra Glen Gray and his Casa Lorna or- chestra, one of the most popular at the present, is featured at the Colonnades of The Essex House in New York City. HAROLD D. MERRY LOlJIS R, TRIPP l'AUL \VASSMANSDORF HENRY W. TULLOCH V\'lLLIAM T. WI::-l\NE Little Jack Little, the famous radio star in person with his own orc~es1:ra, is now playing at the Lexington Hotel and broadcasting three times weekly over a coast to coast network. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ Sitney, Mountebanks President, Is Named Senior Class Valedictorian ----------------------------------------------------------------~ Columbia Editorial On Phi Beta Kappa Says Ellery \Has Not Gone Far Enough\ in Criticism of Present Marking System Under the title \P. B. K. and A. B. C.\ an editorial appeared in Tuesday's issue <February 13) of The Columbia Spectator concerning Dr. Ellery's speech before the Up- per Hudson Association of Phi Beta Kappa in Albany Saturday night. After quoting portions of the ad- dress in which Dr. Ellery proposed thiat Phi Beta Kappa \abandon as a basis for eligibility our present indefensible and unintelligent meas- ure of intelligence-the marking or gr<~oding system, whether in Arabic or alphabetical notation,\ the fol- lowing comment was made: \The collegiate marking system has often been challenged, so that further discussion on that point would only be in the way of repe- tition. It appears significant to us, however; that the Society of Phi Beta Kappa, which is the person- ification of this marking system, has allowed a note of doubt to creep into its ritual. \Dr. Ellery is correct in decrying the society's reliance on the mark- ing system as a basis of eligibility. :Sut he has not gone far enough. Phi Beta Kappa is but one of the organizations which are .being fool- ed by the alphabetical soup being dished out to the country's under- graduates. It remains for those who regulate the academic measure to realize the inadequacy of their in- strument.\ -----a------ Commencement Officers to Be Selected at Senior Meeting Alexander M. Turner, President of the Senior Class, announces that there will be a meeting of the Sen- · lor Class Monday morning at ten c'clack in the Old Chapel. The pur- pose of the meetint?: will be to hold the elections for the Commence- ment offices and to hear the an- noun'Cement of the senior commit- tees. The offices to which men are to be elected are: Class Marshall ivy Orator, Pipe Orator, Keeper of the Jug, Class Prophet, and Alou- ette singers. The appointments for the mass Day, Banquet, Cap and Gown, and Programs and Invita- tions committees will ·be announced. Dr. C. J. Potter to Ddiver I Seniors Receiving Honors Address at Sunday Service Are Active in Exti·a- Curl'iculat• Life Of Colleg·e The Rev. Clayton J. Potter, min- Ister of the First Reformed Church c,f Schenectady since 1910, will speak at the Sunday services at 11:00 o'clock in the Memorial Chapel. Dr. Potter was graduated from Union In the class of 1900. While at Union he was the winner of the First Blatchford Oratorical Com- mencement Prize and was electec to Phi Beta Kappa. He studied theology at the Yale Divinity Schoo. and at Hartford Theological Semin- ary, and was graduated from the :atter in 1904. From 1904 to 1907, Dr. Potter wae minister of the Congregational Church of Lenox, Mass., and frorr there he went to the Church of Christ (Congregational) at Sims· bury, Conn., as minister from 190~ to 1910. In June 1932, Union Col- lege conferred the honorary degref of Doctor of Divinity on Dr. Potter The First Reformed Church o! ~chenectady is the mother of Unior College. In 1785, Dr. Potter's great predecessor, Dirck Romeyn, found· ed the Schenectady Academy and ir 1795 secured a collegiate charter and with astounding broad-minded· ness this church gave in cash anc' property $30,000 to found a college free to men <Jf all religions. CALENDAR Tonight Spencer Lecture -John Hazdel Lewis, Lecture-Recital, \Music of China,\ Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Debate, Union vs Hobart, WGY, 11-12:00 midnight, Radio Club Meeting. Tomorrow Daily A.ssembly--Professor H. R. Enslow, State Tax Commis- sion, \Opportunities in Public Service.\ Basketball, Union vs. Hamilton. Swimming, Union vs. R. P. i. at Troy. Sunday Sunday Service-Rev. Clayton J. Potter, First Reformed Church of Schenectady, Memorial Chapel, 11:00 a, m. Or.gan Recitai-Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel, 4-5:00 p. m. Monday Meetings of League of Evangel- ical Students· and of Philoma- thean Society. Tuesday Daily Assembly-Speaker, Henry w. Tulloch, \The Course in Economics at Union College . Meetings of Chess, Spanish, In- ternational Relations .ll.nd Physics Clubs. Julius J. Sitney was named vale- dictorian of the senior class for the !38th annual Commencement exer- cises which will take place on June 12, Dean Charles F. F. Garis, who made the announcement also made public the names of ten other men who have been honored by stage ap- pointments. The valedictorian and three of the others who received stage appointments will be the com- mencement orators. Several of the seniors who have been thus honored have been in ex- tra-curricular work while enrolled '1ei e. Sitney, a resident of Schenec- tady, is an active member of the ?hilomathean society and holds the 1osition of president of the Mounte- •anks, for which organization he erved as secretary during his jun- or year. Sitney was also among the lve seniors honored by election to ii<'ma Xi, national honorary scien- tific fraternity, last October. Charles S. Bl'idgman, Robert W. Gurry, Joseph Horvath, Jr., Philip .B. Lahgworthy, Leslie R. Long, Har- old D. Merry, Louis R. Tripp, Hen- ry W. Tulloch, William T. Winne and Paul Wassmansdorf were the other students named to stage ap- pointments in addition to Sitney. Us- ually only ten seniors are given stage appointments, but this· year another was added because of the unusually fine record made by Long, who will have spent only three years at Union in June, Bridgman makes his home in Rochester and Is affiliated with the Kanua Alpha society. He has been connected with the swimming team, the Idol, Psychology, and Glee Clubs while a student. Gurry, a resident of Alplaus, also was honored by elec- tion to Sigma Xi in October. Joseph Horvath, also a member of Sigma Xi, makes his home in Farm- ingdale, and is a member of Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity. Leslie Long-, a resident of Schenectady, is a member of the Glee Club and a con- tributor of articles on economics to The Concordiensis. Philip Langworthy, a member of Delta Phi comes from Gloversville. Harold Merry comes from Amster- dam. Tripp, a member of Delta Phi, has been especially active and at present is a member of the Student Council. Last year he served on the Junior Prom committee and for three years has been connected with the Glee Club, the Choir, and the Instrumental club. He was also an (Continued on Page 4) JULIUS .J. SITNEY Levis to Illustrate Lecture With Music Spencer Lectm·er to Play On Old Chinese Instruments; To Give Own Compositions __ ______. \Wusih Ching\ and \Alone with Ching Mountain\ are two composi- tions to be played by their com- poser, John Hazedel Levis, tonight m the Memorial Chapel at 8:00 p. m. Mr. Levis is brought to Sche- nectady by the Ichabod Spencer Lecture Foundation . \Wuish Ching\ has been arranged by Mr. Levis for the piano. The tune is an old Chinese one and em- ploys harmonic compositions which are discerned as more essential to the spirit of the music. The poem \Alone with Ching Mountain\ by Li Pe, and translated by Arthur Christy, has been set to music by Mr. Levis whose arrangement for pianoforte is based upon the an- cient system of musical composition. This musical reconstruction is based upon the study of rare and authentic documents revealing the nature, form and structure of the \forgotten art.\ The piece deals with true friendship for a beauti- fully set mountain. The author of the poem cries out to his mountain, \Long we commune but we never grow weary of each other.\ · Songs to the accompaniment of drums and bells of old China are Ozzie Nelson's orchestra which helped to make last year's prom a huge success, features Harriet Hilliard and broadcasts over the Columbia network three times weekly from the Park Central Ho- tel in New York City. Nelson's orches~ra also broadcasts every Sun- day mght at the N. B. C. studios with the Joe Penner program. This orchestra formerly played at the New Yorker Hotel and the Glen Island Casino. · George Hall's orchestra has pley- ed at the grill room of the Hotel :raft for the past few years, featur- mg Loretta Lee and Barry WeHs. Mr. Hall and his orchestra have the distinction of having broadcast more frequently over the Columbia network than any other orchestra and can be heard over that network seven times weekly. Leon Belasco Plays at St. Moritz Leon Belasco's orchestra is now featured at the beautiful St. Moritz Hotel and over the C. B. S. four times weekly. Enoch Light and his International Orchestra are now appearing at the G?vernor Clinton Hote-l, New York C1ty, and broadcast four times weekly over the Columbia networlt This orchestra was the sensatio~ of Europe, playing at the Winter Garden in Berlin, the RHz in Paris and the Casino in both Cannes and Biarritz. In xnaking the announcement yes- terday afternoon, Dain also an- nounced that the price per couple for Prom this year will be six dol- lars if ticket:; are bought before May 7, and seven dollars after- wards. ----o------ Concordiensis Granted Money Fo1· More News Photographs ~ne hundred dollars was appro- pnated for Concordiensis pictures at a meeting of the Publications Board Wednesday. The money which comes from The Concordi: ensis surplus, will be used to en- large the p•aper's pictorial facilities. The results of the experiment will be reported to the Board in the future. -----o--- -- Examination Period Is Extended By Dean Garis a part of Mr. Levis' program. The The examination period at the end lecturer uses an authentic Ming of the current college year has been bronze bell, over 500 years old, to. extend~d by Dean Charles F. F. accompany a song of the same per- Garis m order to avoid the neces- iod. Levis will also a<lcompany his slty of giving several examinations songs with the Chin, which Is one !n on~ subject. The examination per- of the most magnificent and highly 10d w1ll, therefore, begin on May 21 developed of instruments in the instead of May 28, but will have no world today, according to Mr. Levis. effect on the review period, which The Chin is over 2,000 years old. will nevertheless last two weeks, The lecturer considers it a more Arrangements have been made so complete medium of musical ex- that none of the scheduled extra- pression • in certain aspects than C!Jrrlcular. activ!ties, especially var- our modern piano. Mr. Levis will stty athletics, Will be interrupted by render a song entitled \Beautiful the extended period of the examina- Wusih\ on this instrument. tlons this year.

~ I :---. I 'Clll \I r \ !'lit .nel- l!' and l'l d II' II I f11\ II··· 1::· hl- \1_'Jll : I t I. \ tJld on:\ l.t>vis TD lllu:--tmh· ;.;pt>llt'l'l\ Ll•t'tUl'l' Tonig-ht \\'itil llis l\umpm;itinn~ \'ol.. LYI!., :\o. l ·~10~ COLU:GE. SC!IE:\ECTADY. :\. Y .. I f i, 1 ~I:; I .Jul;u-.1 :-.!!.• I - < . \ ;tit ·<I! t I J.'.,t I : 1 ·: , PRICE FI\'E t'E:--;T.' ' English Courses Named To Stage Appointments at 1934 Conzmencemen t Budget of Sixt~en CutforTimeBeing,; . Hundred Dollar~~ Is Drc Ellery Explains\ Approved for Pnnn .\ding; l'l\esidt>nt ~:t~·~ Budgt>t t 'ur tailmt>nts :\lust Bt> :'\l.tde Ia LPttt·r to:-ltudent Couneil Hopes to Revi\'e ('nurses l'l :n ... Indudt• \ear of I\1:~1-:i Only, I ~~=~~~-fi :\ot .\rTangt'd. J., -t \\t·Ph flit ~llldt•l\{ ( 1 11\lJH'l1 \\t•llt ctlt 1•·<- .. ld :1 f:JV•lling tht• It' t't•llf'ltJI1 tJf· fW(J l'tJ!l};--1'~ 111 .t\nH'!lCBI1 and I·:n:..:lt~h l!t.·•.iltll •· whkh h'\''' lt't't•[ltJy bt•P[l dfllppt•li fl'IJlll tbt• I'll) JIC'llJlllll :\!c•-:o-:anclt>l Till nt>t. . ,,·('ft·lltl\ 11f tht> < • .. unt·JI. Wtllt'f' tu Ill i':ll•·r\ :--raun~ tr.t> r 'tHHH'tl· ... ac t·J,,n {Jt I•:llt•ly 1 t'Jtl\ ftdlo\At:-- Vn-..t, lt·t Jilt' -.;a\ '.n:tt ~uggt-:--tinn:­ fl,,ru tltttll~httul :-llld*\'nt~ r•·g:lldlng I~~·- !Jtt Ill t'tlt• nt)k;...!.t• Hit' al\VaV~ \\l·'ol fllJlt• and :tit ~·:vf'!l tht> 1110.;:41 '.11 •·t ul :illd .... Jnet·t • t'IJtl:·:Jdt'tatJon !:1 f•;utwl..iar \\t• l·uunt Jt·t·oul !Jlt'litlittlltll:-: Jllltkltl!..: t11 IHI:-.111~ fht• •jll:til1'\ \t 11\11 Lltft·llt>t'tllHl WUI k tu .t t;J:,;.:.tl i•l<tllt· llt:.:t1 'l U tilt~ ttf \\'\1! h I' lltdt·J,t'rlt'ktll ul Utt· t·uut:---t· .. 'ill· i 1 ~dic·,...:t tJUt•J- ;--:., l'ullll lt•t Btt' ... H\' thaJ l'UI tall-! rut·Jlt 111 th .. nurnht·.l of ('1)\lt:--t•:-- In I t.f,,· \ artou:-- lit'ld:-- 1 )f :-;tudv ~:--o tutl'Pd I J,\ ,.,, t'UIIl~tan('t'~ ht·votH.l out <·on- '·\' \\.tlhtn Ull• Ja~t two vtoa.t~. oUI 1 . tn•·t~Irlt' ha:-. bt>t•n It·duct-\tf by ap- J•I \\ 1111.a !t•l\' $111U.mJII, tll about <tilt'· :11111 ~·ur total hudl-:Pt La~t \'t•al' I t tH· d~>t'l t•a:-t' 111 llll'UilH· ·~vas mt:t 1n !'·''' h\' a gl'nt·ral cut in faculty -.ai<lllt·:-->, ~lnct· WL'\ dPSllP to H\'Old! H \I :• >!.1' I :o: I I\; \·I\'- !.I. J, ,_., !•JI II• 01 0 \ \c.-, I I 'Ill 1 .I r \' I \ ,., • \_ \' •• I .. ,, Jl \ I• 'I •I I\ J; r I: II', ' \-- '.\ Tf 1.!.\' H \\.lLI.I \\1 T \\T\'\r; l.t•:tdin~ Orrfw..,t 1 .t- ol ( ollll· tr~ Bid \\ ilhin l!ud:..:.l'! !ut l>.tnn· ;-;l'ht•dult·d l1•1 \!:t.' J J ;-;j, Doll:u· ... ( nuplt· J,., Bought !'riot II Tickl't to .\h.1 .\ - 1 '\. •• , r: t. 111: •I: •-,: ll' I': l ... I 'I I'.\ • I ' ,.,,, 'til ,. t. .· 11 \\ :, -. :, ;, n. \tt:' •. : ( '};,I! It·.- I .. .1: I hl' I IJ!IJJtll'li't·t !,,, '! , . 1: f• :: ••• ~ I. ~ J1 till 1 I ' j ',' \\, ,, 1, .. r. . ··II,Jb,,·,-1 t, .t.• f r ' ' r 11 • •· ·• • ! . ' ~ ~ :r··· , ,, 1: ... , .. ,\I,' \\ TL·· I •oii:IL:'f, l' ' ' pi!!'- I ! \1:. I I .. f. I ~' • r 11 ; 1 , • ! , ~ . , • ! 1 '•! I ht ...,f: I I •,'/:• ,. \I' 1'0:!;·: l'• .. •t I;.'' 1 .. J. .. ll f ;, ; : -.. 'I ; J:: ·I \\ ~ ' • II, t , '. ' 1 I • II , , • ' , t;,. htl,L•- • ·'l·t•: · - ..• ·: t., \c 1llllt' 1 I !' ! . .. , !I 'I. 1'···11 •i !! (;!.-~• <~Ja~· ... ( .ha l.ttiJta C)ITlll' ... ti.l ' t ; I t•ll I ; I - l _\ • I It·! '. ( •tlt·:--1 t d l Jilt '.r •!.•, !: .. ~ \ . ;. ' at '111· I\··- ,.,1• 1 ~·~ .t' , 1. t1 I ,: ·.\lunnr;11l'- td ·:··, l< , '\ I!· I :\\t>\V \.til h ( ) 1 ', 1..1 f't it .l ;, ( 1\ i.; , ... ' . ~ ' I•' .. , . \', ... t If I' t \P~ •) ;( i - !, 'I\\ ~' l I\ 0 • + '!' t h1 •. ,- 'lilt• , \\ •• '· i • _t ... ,·f·ond ~alaty l'Ut. tht~ yt·al',-.; It' : tlt·twhntt•nt v.::t.s nuulf· tn all olH't- · ;t.tHJ~ ro:-it!\> othet than ~nlaril·~- iSitney, Mountebanks President, Is l'l'<'l'art• for Furth••r R••dudion Thn d. Wt• muot be 111 qmt t•t.l fol t 111 Tht•J teduc·tton tn ln<'onH•. \\'tth .I Lt•Xltl~''•ltl fl· •, j 1!.: t.· I c fl:-t:--1 llt·l \\' t! h I (}./.f..,,. );,.;,\r. .. 1 .~. .., 1 I I ll t ·I I J t ' l I . ' I ll I . l h. ' ' ; I • ~· ' I • l . ; ' ' II ' h lJ· 't' -llt't .,,_- ! t ' • i l!' l Lt I! '' ~ h1- ... til plu:-.pt>ct c.tll dl\-'1:-Ion:-o of :--tudy \\t·fp diit·t·tt·d la..-.t St·Jl.ll'tllber to It> I du'·\ tht· nuntbt·l' of l'UU!Bt':-- f(Jl •··11·h ILP!d m thP dtv1,;10n to :;ix 111lt> ,.,,tll:-Ot> PaC'h for FtP~lunan and :-:;,,l':,c•Jnlllt' \TitJ-:--. and two l'Olll:-'t~:-' 1 ,,~,·h fut .J1intur· and SPniot yp;u-t-:! • \11 ··x•q•twn w:b mad\ in the f11·ld I 11f l·:n:..:IJ:.;h, bt•(·aus.e tht:>t·e utP here· tw .. dr,.;tmct lint·> of worll a :<tudy: \f llt•·nttUlP and a :-;tudv of porn-. l\''ltll•n. H••ncc· rt thi~ i1Pid thn·e ,.,1u1 ,-.;t''-' tn Pa.{'h of tlw .Junior and ~,.ntc•r VP:II..\\ at t• {·onttnut·d. in~tPad uf tw\ allow<>d in ot.llH liPid~. The altt·I nattVP to tlu:-; cur·tailnu·nt in l, Hl! :-.t·,-. ~:-- a ~t·conU gl•nt·t·al ~alat y • 111. and !lit· atlmmt>tlation wtll nut C!lll-tdt·t· that v.:u\· o.f lt.•du<'ing thP • \ll•'J.!l' budget. ('urtnilnwnls Ar•· Tt•mporar~ J<,>~lltb. 11 c:tn nut b\ too ~non..:Iy ft !lt'I i:ih•d that thl'Sl' CUI ta.tlnu·nt.-.: 111 t'llltllula att• tt•tnJHJta.ry. That ' 111 not bP !'-tattod tuo l'tnphatteall~ \\ ilh 1 t>tUt n of uut finaneu.tl 1 t'· -11!1! ,., .'. tlu· lit st m·t.Jon that Will Ill' t·d{t'll \\'til ht• thr· tP~toratton of ta1 ulf'.· .... ;duttt·,... to t'lH• ha~t~ of tlu·Pt' \•':tl'- a.go. a.nd thP ~l·cond aettnn will ln· tht· t•Xpan:--tun of our cur- Jt('lll:t' I •·:.tnP~t.l\' a~k that all four of th1··.-..f' ... t·tlt·tnt•nt~ c1f fa<'t~ bt> la·ld n>li-I:lllliV Ill lllll}(] Wht'll IPV!t'Wlng 1lu· .-!:tt t of tht• cullt•g<• anti tht· dt'· cl-l!lll .... ,f tht• facultv and a.dnuni:--- .r :dloH . ljlt :1.·•· hl'f'l• l}lo:--t· fout :-tatP- IIl•·nh of f:u·t, UJtp<'rfllllSI in liH•ll:..:ht. a.- I •·:til vout att .. ntwn to t.ht-· fol11J\\''1n~ (ldn.il...; tt•gardtng in· t·11H'll1111 in th•· fi<'ld of Engli~ll 1 ~\t prt> ... ,•nt thiPE' oJ11tnnHl Eng+ 11:---il t·uut~t·:\\> art• <JITPJPd to t)ophu- llwr\ A. H st Ull<·nt> Two must lt•n!J\'' u1 !lv h•• omit ted. Thl' onl' ,,.,·atnt-d 1:-: tht> onP \ovhich at pre:-:· ,-nt I\' nto . ..;f tn c.lE·nutnd. :..! ~\t lH P;-;l'nt :-H'\'Pn t'lectivt- ~'' 1\lt =--··~ 111 ~~ngli;;h In anv ont.~ yPat art· uff't•lt->d Jun1o1s and Seniot::::. TtJ,.,,. must b\ tt>dUcPd to >'iX and 1 '\Vo nf thP :-:ix nt P tu be tn com.po¥ ... 1 t·11,n Th1· tPc·otnmPndation of thl' J·;n1.!1J..:!l in...:tructlnna.l =--taff wa:-< ac+ l'f'Jlt pfi ,\im nf J'.ngli~h Jn,tructional Staff :! Tlw English ins!tudional staff ;t.J1<1 tlw •·ntne facu!tv of thP eol· l•·e:•• art• \\n''\lnf'd tri makP more ..thctl\'<' tlw ttainmg m rn!Tf'Ct ust• 11[ >'pokPn and WI it t£•n English. Y1111 know. probah1v bettPr than we, !tuw wid<',· PI Pad among the under- l.!Jaduatt•:-: i:-' thP lou:w USt> of Eng- li,dt. Ohvwush· ltlP mu:ot important Jl<'ll<H] in th<> vHy n('cesH•ny work nf 1n1PI\I1Ving th1~ ermdition i:< that nf t ht• Ft P~tunan a.nd SophomorE' V<'HJ\ Tht· number uf \tudents for whlltlt £'ad1 t.t·ach•·r i>' 1 t>~pnnHib!P llllloOt' lw kPpl \mall. e!He the work o·an not hP dont• wPII There will hPt••afrPr h•· Plo·Vt·n Fr e\hman Sl'C· I.J<Jn~ 1r1 Eng]t,;h, anti ninP Sopho- mur•· :>Pc·tions. Tlw total number nf \t',<t'hing hoUIS for thP :<taff Will I h•·t <'foil• bP Frt·,-Juna.n Eng .. 11 sPetions ~ophotl:}Ol P fo~n~, g ~Pt'tion:o= .JIIIl!IJI r:ngli,lJ, 3 C0\11:<<',.. ~Pll ior En !!;I bh. 3 <'uur~e~ 33 hr><. 27 hrs. ~l hrs. 9 hrs. T\tab for English 7il hrs. r Continued on Page 4> Named Senior Class Valedictorian : Hrfiral d .ttlc: .h: \·''·' 1 • • •• : ,<'t,•iHtllhtt J.•·t\\ : 1 • !\ '!!:.•· ' \~ ~· ,_. i\ l;. t r • •II: ! ! , I ' , : 1\ t ·, t 1 • ~ 1 f 1. , Columbia Editorial On Phi Beta Kappa :-l·ty:-> Eller·y \Ha\ \ot (;mw Far Enou~·h'' in ('ritiri:->m nf l'rt'-.t>nt :\'larking ~yst.l•m B au \P B 1.; all<t ,\ t>liltnr tal a.ppt·ai t·d l,,,,lJ(• 'l·!'l>l !tal~ J:l• Ill Tht· Cnlun1tna ~Ju't'l.Ht·,n ,.,,tH't'lll!llt. I>r r:Ilt·I :v· .... :--pt·t·c·h bt·fot t> tltt· \ 'p pt•l Hud ... tHl \\:-:-ct~ Jatltltl of l'lu Hf'l;1 Kappa 111 Alhall\ Satl11d:t~ n1gl.t· Aftt•t qlll>1Ing polttun:-. of tlH· ;1d drt·:-::-; In \\--'htctl Ut Ellt•! y pi up11:- t·l, tbtt l'h1 H•·ta Eappa \:oband<>n \ a ha ...... l!-> fol t•ltgtht·llt;-,- lit)} uult·ft-n~tblP :tnd unrntt>\la.!ylll rut·:'-' lll,. of in! PlltgPnro· t lw mar I' 111;.: \' gradtng :--y:--tt·nl. \\ht·ttH·r 111 .\J:thl(' Ill :tlphabt•ttral nu:·aJJttll,\ t'ht· fed lovnng Punlnlt-11t \\H-. nta.dt \Tht• n.Jllt·~lnt I' lll<tl lilllg -~ + tt•IJt ha~ uft t·n bt•t•n 1· h:tl1t·n~-:t·d .... u t lt:t t fur·tht·r· lh::-eu:-..:--l•Jll 1111 t t.:t1 Jtoln t would unl~ 'bt· tn 1ht· \\:-ty of J.t'J!t' t.ltutn. It a.pJH•HI:- ... t:.,:rllfll ;111t l'tt 11 .... howt•\'PI Putt ~h·· ~~~c·J1·tv 11f Pl11 B..ta K~ppa. ~' h1d1 1~ Ill• f.,. I ·<~11 tfil·atton uf thi:- Jrl:tll'\Jil)..: .... y~·c·nt. has. H•ll(J\\'t'd :-t nult· of tilJ\lb1 lt1 •·tt·t Jt Into It:-. 1 ltllal \l)t Elll'l\' 1:- ,.,,llt't't :n dt·t·r\lno.: thP :-.oCIPty<\ Jt•lla.nc·p tJil t'h•· rn.:r!l, lng :-;y;-.1l'rn a:-< a b'-.1~1~ c,f' •·il~lbtll1\' But hP ha.• not ~\n•· tar <'ll\ll. Phi BPta KappH 1:-- but ullt' uf ! h·· un.,:a,tllZHt'HJtl:-. v.:hiCfl <!It· ht ill!-: fco1d Pd by tlu· alpt·~~.lJt•twal :-=:rJ\lf' ht·rn:..: dL-•h£>d out to tht> c<Hilltt\ :--- und•·: gtatluafP~. It 1 t·nt:-tltl.-.. fu1 \thl•:-t• wh~~ IPgulatt· thP ac·ad•·n1w lllt.t:-UJ( t1, tP.H.i·lZI' thP Inach'quac ~ 11( nu·Jt 11 ~t l UlUI'nl \ Commenc(>mt>nt Oll'icers to Bt• · ~elected <lt ~t'nior \lt•Pting; Turtwr. nf tht· ~~·nit)~ ('l:i~:--. attnt•lll\t't·:- t!.:~T thPTt-' Will ht· a Jilt•t•IITl:..! of lht· ~I'll io1 Cla:4~ 1Ionda~· tnotnin~ at !t·n r.\clock in tllt> Old Ctl:t Jwl Tlu· J\l 1 lJO:-:P of t}w Dlf'f•tnl • \\.i:! bt· 1t• tJ,t],· tltt• t'}f'l't ion:-- f111 1 ht· CttJnn;t·t:~·~· n1Pnt offn·.rr-o and 111 ~w·u t~H· .Ill nouncenu·nt of t h1· :-ot·tunt c·,,ntnlT!'- tPP~ ThP otTJc·p~ t11 wt11C'I1 ll11'tl :ut· tCJ h(• t·IPdPd at P r'}a ... ..; :'\.l:u~h:t ivy OntfoJ Pipt> Ot:ttor. Kt>t'JWT ~~~ th(' Jug ClH+'\~ PnqdH·t.. ;,nd Al1•11 Pttt> !\inget.:- Tht> aprJ<,Jnt·n·t·nt·~ h>t thP rln\\ !Jay, BanqllPI, ('a.p :.nd Gn\\-·n. and Prngta.n1~ a.nd, Inv1t':1 tions £'Ull1ll1ittPt-:-- will lw anuoUIIt·P•i Dr_ ( ·. J. Pottet· to lhlhcr . \ddress at Sunday Sen:iec The l~t·\ (', l~l•1l1 .J 1-,\!.t·: llllll .-!11 .. f tr.. F11-f J:, f\' 1:1,. t\~ 11:,,~. ~rLt'llt·• t:1d\ ... Jnt·• l~l}o w1L ~pt· d.. 1' 1 L· ~unti 1\ .,, . \ ·' f·-. :tr : l II. I \ il-, t h· \·lt·lll•d l'l . ~ L.t pt·l fir }J .. •tc·t \\ ~~:ttlll t't·l! f•otn t·n·· ·u 1n th•· · ··- ~~: 1~11 11 \\':.1:, 1t l'1 Jell. lw \\>t- t!,t' \' .. tl!,t·r 11t tt.t Flr-t }~;.lf·,·f:t'••l•i ( l( ,_tf'c>l h :_t. ( ·., !l!· a11 n,·l·ll,l't:t Pr 1 ,. tl.•: '' to Phi }!t\t.t l\:.qq• 1 II• t t;, .;, •:..::, :•; t' t ·'' Y .,,,,. I·~· _,, · · , :--.. 1 n.: ;It Jl:tr t f,,l,! T!.c· '·· I l ~. ,J f.1o. \\ 'I :·t1!t 1 lit l:tlll 1· •.ll<l!•-··! !!••Ill ! FI tl(ll l!Hit ,,, ~~ !(' [ )• I '· • ·. · r \\ Il llll, -1't 'I t If t· l. 1· ( ', • li _:' t .... , ~ I• I, .t I '!·111' L I f Lt-!1••'\ :\1 t··-.. :tl:,: 1 ~ '•)! • Lt·t ,. L·· \\ t'!i·' t\ t f., r'r.111 ,.\ -Ll ;_-.t •Ciill;.__lt ...::t'-••ti.t> d :--:.1rt hH::o.· ( .... nn tr'J!~I-.;•, •• !•t•TI. 1' 1- l<J l!lltt Ill .flltH ~~·:{~ I f1lt>l> ('•·· ,t ;.:t• t'ttJiff··t I t<d l\lt }!ttl\• ·l't ~ \ t~t'_' I f•t d fl .. , 1,11 .. t fll\<11••·, \' II! l 1 .. r ,.; 'JtH· l-·'11-: I-t•ftllJJH·d t'1.ur··L .-.,(' !.t-·lltocl: ttl\ 1- ' t ,\' Ill• t 1, ,. r • ! I .11 .• •l \ 0 \J:: t·.:.t·• 1 ~~ 17 .... :, I lt ! )l t. ··I ,_',_I' !Jlt•ti._'t·• ....... itl. 111)1 1\ ~~t•fJ,I'\fl !tdtl,< . t! ~ Ll· ~ ·l:t•L•'t t.t.d\ ,\t .p:t :II\· .ttld !! ~~~~:1 .-1'1 \liPtl ,{ t .,,:t·_lllt l !.:t;•,.: 1 t . ' : '-.. : t ! 1 • 1 :-- t • •II r ; • ~ 1 11 ... 1 f r c , ' ' : r ~ . 1 11 ' , .. 'II I t·· ;Jf,IJ-11'!1) ,'~;~l)lilll !11 ~-,l,lJ1t_: :·J fl' li! lltt'Il 1,f ;L1 ! t•_l,.:I<~Ii~ :'(•t tlt t I 1.·· \\l- ( ·.\1..1 'J) \I: Tonic.ht I - t· • - ~ i 1 I 1- • I ' i t I I . f.• •t • II I I' } ~ t 't l I 'I, t 1 !' ( ~ t, I t ; I I' HI I I •. -\ I ~ I . 11 I c j ~ . 1 t , ! ~ > I I 'It II, ! ~:, l -· ~,' 'If' :\·1 • • • Ill ~ J'tJtJ!CIJ'J'II\\ ll..t ,.. ''\}11·1• \\··. y jJ ! '\ ,\ -f-')1 t• .. 1 '' ,., '\ ., I ll I: 1';1. ..... \ ·,,;IIILI-- ·,••ll •·:,··- ~~·I \ 11 • n .-l\.· flt·Ili :-;\'\'til I! II )l ... T,, .. , \ \' :-- t 'r.t .. Jt \~ ~ttnd:n ll:otn •. t .. n 1: I' 1 ... t :-;un•!.t\ =-'' !'.1-'' l~·,., t'.;,\t••l, _f p, 1'1~·1. F.J. .. t ~~ .. t·t~!IJ!I'd {,Llll('h ~I !,1'!\1 o·1·H;\ t ., .tJ'••, I 1 tlt! I n. til ! : • I ~ ~· 1 , ' }0:,111' I .\ .,,, .J Jt.{ ; ~ ! ' \.]I Ill• •I 1.1 ('• t!\' l ·, ( jj f I IIJ :\'Inn ria~ \1 ... I. I I·'' 1- !I•· \' I ' .,f I'L. <!lil-t '·}H· 1n :--!11• H t'\ Tcc-,da:-. I ) '11. \ :'\-- •. -!I ~' \ \\' '('•;;,,. J ·'I''' 1hc t, lit l•l :• T !,, ( \.~·n 1 :--{· in E· .. ,,~ 1. • 1, !' - 1 l ·,,·(I r, c ·\ _ · ~· , \TtTlJJl..:- ,,!· l'\,,·-- ~J•c•1,~h In • I. t ll I ,, l' t ' I i 1·: I ' ' ; I 1 It I I; t- t l ~ ( I J't;\ _,, .· (' .llh\- Seniors RereiYing- Honors .\n• .\rtive in Extra- ( 'ulTicular Life Of ( 'olleg-e '' ·t. n:tlll' d valt'- 1 ;~\'l I, IUIIlll.t i l '1 l{ltlll.t 1~• t'Jllt'l\t 1~ I ,, 1 fi ( • ~ 1: It ! I - !· ~ j'l.t,.,. on .Ittllt' F ( ;;IIJ..: Wh!l II 1.1r·,_ >'IT:--t:\ t't•J Ill ~t'\\ Y••ll-\ l ;'\ ·\' , ... ,.J*- !qtcht·-tl:t -d-\ h•co,cd• o~-' ·. • 1: :'t.l I d.t\ n:~t.' ,. •t.· '; t' • t•1 . \\Jth 'il•· -'\' J•, 11n•·! (':··_:~ 1:1 Tt . 'll\ln·:--tra lt•Itn•ri\ 1• •\•1: tt 1• ;:\:'t·\\ YttJI,,-·r tf,,,;: .t.rl·! ·~·- 1;,,., 1 1:-lnnd <•d .. lfP• I ; I'C ,, - '. l -I .. , J 1 I 'I l ~ ' . ' I • I t .j I ', t•tl d t l f1 t O.:J IIi ! '•• .; ; : • f· • ~ ,, } {o ,•, , T:t ft [tll f t•t• I';' ~ :·, \\ \ t I: Hl;..: L~~r•-·\.j 1.·· ;tJl•: J:,::) \\. :\li II:t.!. :ttld t.. ..: r · .•: 1 ~. ·1 •• 1 ~tu· d1~t11w! 'n •.t t l·. n:. 1·: , 1d• 1 1 Jllt1f•· tl·t·qlltllt-:• '.•·: ·r .. ···,lttr.h 1 ltt•f\\11}1\.l't.tll til' ,•·• '•1.• '! I • .tlid I :tJ,l bt llt tid o \t·• -t·\ t•ll t' J ll• \\' ' ,, ''-. .d~tJ !ltad~· '·t tJt-•f 1111 11 Illustrate 1 ~. .... n B··.];~.._, ..... , ... ,.._.I, ... 1 Musl ·c I 1··. 1 ,;\;;':../·:; :1 .. , .. :,;:,,· Levis to Lecture With ll••'•\ ~· \lo.:;. ,' •i:1• ·- ... l'!- \\,. L,, lt't'l j\'t·d 1 lltdt} ttld .. ,,, ·~ .• I. t ~.·, .. tpJt~·:! t'na-nt.-.. \\ .. : ·,:. t, • 1111 n' .. ::tt· •I .... ,., ': ·:,: \\\I ).{ ('oot}J- \\ h,, ll:t\'t• }ll't·n Ill t•X- ~1~ :11 • ·• l t~~ :dt n! , d~ ~rl1t'l1t>l'- •-tt!'. ·1:o ,n t.\t· tn· n-1tw! (If tlw ~l .. _,lfll')''·· t.n ... ~wlfl\' and ttold ... ttw \'~.•: ·n nf p!~·-t·!t·llt ... ~ ttH· :\]•,Uiltt·- ·nk- !11~ \\ttt.·tJ n:...::JTlli\:t!Jtl!l tw :--;pl'nct·r· LN:turl'l' to Play On Old Chim•sl' In:--trumt>nts: To (;iw 01\ n Compositions a.nd \\.lth , !\t·d ·~., -•·c·r•!':it\ dlltlli1.! h! ..... JUt1- CL1ng :\1\JUtlttun· at1· l'\\11 tttllifH, ... t •I \t•tl :-:.:tnc~ \\.t ... 11.-n .I..IJittll..: th•-· 'ti(IIJ'\ t11 lw pLt~···d b~ thell tl•lll· '\-\ -f·tlill! .... •l·•ntltt·d h\.· t·H•ctiun 1·• •n· 1 ~:. 11 ., 1 ·~··!l'ti t.••tl''::t!~ _,. 11 11 . plt_-.t'l, .l••hn liazt·llt·l l .. t·\1:-., t't•nl;..:ht tJt·lt· t·J:tl•·ll!lt'\' la-l Ot'ftllwl tn tl!t' ~lt•JlJClJtal ( hay-wl at \\'lUI p !'lt:t,Tic· ~ i!rtcl;.:llt:tll. 1~. 1 ,)),. 1 • \\\ Ill .\lt Lt'\\1_-. 1-- btl,lll..:ht f.n ~t·ht• liUII\ .Jil-t·Jd' Hlll\-:t'!l. .It I'hllql r.t·ttad\' 1!)' nu {th;dl••d ~IItfll't•l : i.an_:\\·ottr 1 ~. 1.•-· ... ltt· 1~ f,,,,,_. 11 11 _ Lt·t·'ur;· r,,unclatlon .!.: 1• ~h;r.\ I.!ltll- I~ TllJ.'i'· Htn- \\\'ul ... h CL1n:..:\ ha-..ltn·n alt;illl-!t·d ' \\ T·1!l\' li \Yt1l.•lll T \\·onn•· U) :\!1 l.t·\t- f.,I th•· ptann 't h•· ! ·tnt! l':tld \\';, -ttJ-IIl·d·•rt· \\-t'l! tl1'' tunt' 1~ an cdd ('hint':--t· t•DP and Pnt· ·!·::tl ,:;ltlt-llf-. 1\t!J.t•: To• ... :- 1 _:, ·iJ' }'I 1 •Y:\ halll\Uillt C'IIIllfl\:-J\Jttil- \\hlcL 't .;:J•rllt I•''· .I. ,t'!dtfl\ll t,, ~:''IH'\ 1':- .. d.lt' tfl:-.l't'llll'd :1-.. Jlllil I' f',,.~t·t)ll:tl t(, · ;,1!:-- ,,,, .\ ·~·n _,, 111 .,:.- 1r' ..:t\odl tht· .-.ptttt 11f t'L1· tuu ... u· Tt11· Jllll'tll 't..;.- :IJ•Ju•.ll*rtH·nt- t 11 1• ~!,I~ \t·fll \Alunt· '\\'l'th {tun...: ~Irtlttltain hv J.'!ll!:t-l \\ J- .trldt•t_l lwt'tU col fht> Lt Pt·. and ttan .. J•tft·d h\ .Atthtl .. l t!lll·llti:•. n::t· lt't·~·:t! ~Jt:t•1·· b\ IJJ!L!, {'htL-tv. b.t:-- bt•t•tl _-t•t to 'rnu .. lt' h\ \.\f \'>.o!! :- 1 \, :--p•-tl' . 1 \ l• 1 , ,. \f•:·ll:- ~11 l:t'\\1-- \\-hll ... t' ;trrallJ.,:t'lllt'll! f1•~1 :, l · 1 : 1 •1. 11 .I·tn,· pl:lltllf,,t t ,. ~~ h:t.-1·d upon r-h an J'.·l·L,llltli rn·d\' ~•· ~·•·•TJJI Ill t·tt·ll! :\\>~:-ft·ni .. f rtlll:--Jcal c\lllJic ... tflt~l\ l~•ll 'y-' 1 : tnd 1 _ ,!-fll.:tt•·': .,\Jlh t~_,. TL1:- rnu .... Jl':tl Jt-'t\n ... :lucflllll t---- f-\.., •.••. 1 .\q,l ._, ... , 1 · .• '\ It. ~:;t.· 1 , •.• r 1 h:1:-otd llJH'fl tt.• ~tudy ,,f r.trt :t.nd ,,,,.,,, •,: \\'1\!. t•,, ,\;ll'l'lllll..: '•:till. .ttlt.llt'tltlt' dtu llll\tllf ... It \t·:dlll~ l!!t• •J, 1: .. }' ._, ~''\'· .\ , 11 ,:, i·lt ,. 1 ·: 11 h.- n.tt·uJt·. f111 lt1 ,tfJd -1'11lt'111J, \f t.lu· 'tl-!t'.' •;·1111\ ., lt':--id•·nt ~~f futg\t.h·tl <tlf T!.t·· pit'tt' dt·;_l}; .... :\ 1 ,;., 1 1 1., \\:t ,- 1 ,, 1 -,,,d b\ ,.J 11 \\Jth tlllt' fllt'llti:--ltl}l tot <I luaUtl- ,.,,,:. •,, ~~- n 1 1 :\\:! .n (),·t,,h•·t lull~ :-:.1'1 ll11Hlntarn Ttu· authlll (,f ,J,,~q•L ll·•! \ ~n~ tl-\\ llJt·rnht·J \t ttt~· pot'lll t'llt·~ pur to tn ... Illflllllt;un. • ..:. .. ''JLt ~: !l,,j,,._ ~.I.-- tl•lfllt-' !tl F.lllll .. l.nll;...' \\-t· t'tJifliHIII1t· hut· \\1' tlf•\'t\l tli•l l· :t ILt·!lJlH·f ,,f }'h; L'llt\\ Wt·;tl\ td t•;wh ltfLt•l ~t•TH.!:- lt~ t ht· Ht'l'otnpan !Illt'll t t Jt 1\ 1 Pi' 1 (J,tt' tll!fS Lf•, ... Jp· dtlJIH;- and ht·ll:-- ,.r old t•tilll:J .. ,,.,. \\ ~ 1 ' !I Jt-.:.:·1·t,f' {J!Jit•~ \\t•t·l ... i\ I·:n.l( t. L1....:t • n: : t,;· 1 t; · · 1. t • ,, .·r, 1 t>Ich•·.-tJ:c .tJt• ,,,.',\ tJ·I\ 1.: ,!l_ ,· \ fi\\.t'flllll <\itnt••t; }{ •. r, : .... \\ y, ' '1 t \ a.tl tl b l ' t.t d • :I: t ! ' 11 · ' , II- • \\t·;•kJ) 11\t-J tt,o· I '\o·l.fo f,t ',\,•. Tfll:- ll!t'l:t··-t) '] \\ I - t I ,. .,f E11Jt '}\'· Jli.t \ 1!1.' -t.' '. ,f• \\ ;· •• ' I < ;;tr,f,-n 111 I:,. r ,::1 ·!. 1·: ,', f •. :utd rh, <'.t ... tn\ 1t. J .. • · 1' 1 ··:.•· II •l 1-~lat tiL': In tno~~l:ltl~: 1·}.. tn;-,. ,: .. 11. ,,•·-.. ft'l th,\ .tt·t· Ill· ••II :I:· 1 1111\llll·~d tl. .• · ~1.· I [til I ,I uiil ! h:- ', •- ~r \\.. 'J.t.I _..., If 'J• h• 1 L:• ·--'· :\l;t) tf,,! ' ·,I J, ,i ,, 1· d''•: l'Oil{'OI'diPn-.i ... (;rantt•d :\lutw~ For :\Ion• :\t>\1;; i'hoto!!,raph .... l 1 ll'd t•tl '\I (~.,Ill \ :: •' :t lt!l't'ltn..:; \t tt., I' .I•. I• ., :. I~. •a.r d \\' ,,dn' ..._,·! , \ '1!. ,. \\·hrc}J 1 (tlltt ... fJtJIJ~ T!.t· '·. · .. t•Jl.-1 ... \lilfdU:-- \\I, h• '• , .; '· 1ar~t· tht· p;lpt·J 1 ., t .• •·' t I• Tht· r t·-..ult- .. f t t:,, , 'I,: r:. \\ bt· Jt•Jult tt•d '•• t !.• } J~tl t \1 II Examination Extended B~ Pt•riod J,.. Ih.·an Ca ri,.. :--::1..:.tn:t I.··L !I I '!'!••' !•!• nt· ·~~· ~~ ;., ,.,.,·1 td\ 1- J ,.• *!;t· ,;l\ <'!!lh ;tlld :J , .•• 11 .-t patt ttf :\l1 Lt>\'1=- fllt•:..:J:uu Tht< 1'],, ,.,_,:,, J1.t· ; , ; 1 .. •• , lt•<·tul•·t u .. , .... :til :1lHht ntJt :\l1n~ <•f' til•· '11: 1• 11' _. · •• t ... !'I I ~ • 0 'l- < ' ': '!:' Jl_- i ,~ pt 1,~,, J._tJi_:Ut•f!~.:-., ·t llH'lnh•-1 ,J1 r It : • ·' Pt. ·lilt\- !·,. '!ll •; '\\-t·t -\lilt' II,.··.: '\1· r· ·. ,. •tr ,,. f, ... , .\lll-t>t : tl:· T! :pJ• I Illl\llilll·~ ,.f 1 )t·l!:l Ph: f ~I i•• • I, jtl't ,·tJJ~ .t<\'l\1' .1T1o_! 'lt p:· -• 1--:• 1- lllf'!nlu·t ~d· t!,.· ~'l!tl,,n~ I •, ill.,, : : I . I. ~ ~ t • I l t ll ; I. t \ , .. , j I rl1 f lit' ltl!ll••l Jl:•·fll 1\11lllllllt 1 t'l tl1d flll !L1,,. \·•.t: !.a· h··n•·ti!JI1t·t·h··d\\Jih 1;:,' t\; '•,, i'}l<•l: \)!<: •·:11 \1. !~·ttl.• 1,1 t' t ~t.h lft· \\.t- :tJ.-,, 'Ill b1ot1t.t· ln·IL 11\t·t .~.,u~ \\t'l\1:-- \ld. t11 t'\ttn l• l I•\ i 1 • 1 !~ 1'· 1· I· ,].('ftiii!Jtiill) d ~tl:),_ llf t'lit· :--;IJllt pt·J fi,·tll· 111 ·.•: t', '.: 1'' !Itt! f,,·\1,- \~llo :t,~tt ;l('t'ttfllJ•:tJi:O. ltJ;-. -Jt\ ·•f - \ .1:...: + \o tl • \ •:1,,:,1• ..... tlllL .. \\Itll ~ht· <~h1n \\ll1c'L J-. 111lt Ill,,,,, ~·tlltJ•· r ('~;. , ',• 1 :. 1 .. 1 ·,,,. 11f tht· ruu-t lll.t~Til'fH'I'I1T alld l1d.:t h ~t•d ·.-.. ,] • ·. • p· \1 t 1 t'\t•!tlpt>d t>f Ill..,tltlllli'Ilt:- Ill t}!.p itl:-f• .t•: •: :\·1.\ ~ ... :•'l' ',\:. \\iilld.~·~~da~.:ttt'll!dl!tgtt,:\1t Lt\1._ t!\1t\' .• ;, !~,, :•·\It'\\ i'' TLc· < 1 hln 1~ \\il ~_IIIII! ~·;tr~ ··ld \\.!1 tJ' \'''! .• •-\· .. 1 t t·.,, ,\···\ \{' tll' ,lt•t · t \J I I' l • I til:'\> I tit-' I .., 1 t t i T l ,. • I 1· I ,\1 : :~I_ • I l ,,. t l' :, t ·•• l ,, , , . :I t'~lfllJ1lt•1t-• ll1J•dltlllt td' tllll~H ti • :'-.. !/t.1· !.••1.• ,,t ':,t Jl I t•:- ... J f ttl I Jl I'!' I t ;_IJ Tl :t ... f tf··t t 1 ' , l II l • ,J; ; I • ~I' II I, •, \ l' ; 1 ........ ou1 ru,,,if·lll pr:tlll• ~1.1 t.t\1 \'\JI .... Jt' .,:.:d·l· \\Iii\' ft'lltlt'J <t ---~~.ll~ tt1fl1[t'd }:t tll'lfll1 th; tX'•fld•d 1\; ... ; \\'u:\\>tb ·~tJ tt11 .. Jtl;-.ltlltll''ll' fJt•Jl-- 'tlJ- ~··:u 1;_1,;•

Two THE CONCORDIENSTR, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1934 ·o~irnsis to \slip\ by whether their studies are super- RANDOM OBSERV ATlONS lagous to that? Perhaps. We don't ... want to cha1'1ge things with one fell blow for the simple reason that we li'ke the old ties and also because we are not yet sure what the aims of the generation after us vised or not. \.A Causa Persa Pm·olo .Assai\ FouNDED 1876 On the othet· !mnd, a number of the faculty assigned certain Llooks -.vith the assurance that the material included in them would be used on the final examination. Still others By Sidney David Markman :, will be. Yet we !ilte to believe that we have settled the matter of higher education once and for all. But this is not so. ~ssodnt~ct, ~~!!\.~ \tess left the students entirely to their own de- Union College Proposes New Lease side the college gate. We can in a · d · · th' th th H If large measure. However we m:ust MUSIC by Rankine Hinman ...; 1933 (_NA.TIONA~EO~ERAC.~) 1934 ~ VIces, a. \'IS!l1g no . mg more an a or- On Life for erse. look out since Union is changmg The official newspa·per of the students of l!ni'on Col11Jge. Published Tuesdays and Fnd~ys throughout the college . year, except durmg Christmas and spring recesses. ough reviev,· of the year's work The New Union Plan for the In- with the times. The original defin-. tellectua:l Advancement of Youth is ition of 'what is a college' does not A few classes were conducted right up to about to be put into operation nex.t hold any longer. We keep the · · d · h tall. The .fact that the authorities • same buildings, the same name, the the beginning of the examination per10 Wit · have felt it necessary to devise a same teachers (who hope they can no time spent on review work. It does not plan and define the aims of Union keep the pace), but we are fast be- Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail ]),.latter more closely and securely is in- coming something else than what Chinese music is, not merely fas\ seem right that a student should be required dicative of the fact that we are the founders of the institution had cinatlngly different from that of t t . d · d k · ht t under-going great world-wide in mind some hundred odd years the West; it is in at least one ·r.e- Subscription price Five c~nts a co.py; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere m the Umted States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address al-l business communications to Althut· J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union ~oll.ege, Schenectady N. Y. All other commumcatlons to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Up15ilon House, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .............. Editor-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg .......... Business Manager c. William Huntley ........... Managing ~oitor Robert H. Smith ...... , ........... News .h;d1tor Arnold J, Friedman .............. Sports .1£ditor Prince E. Oleson., .............. Feature Editor Morton C. Stewart. ....... Circulation Manager c. Hathaway M. Herger JUNIOR BOARD J. Woolman D. Moulton SOPHOMORE BOAIRD J. Anderson V. Gilbert R. Nmth C. Reid, Jr. A. H. Stevenson l&sue Editor .•........ l\lilton A. Berger FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1934 STRICTLY OU\R OWN AFFAIR Dame rumor a.t times can be a very ugly old lady. The best thing to do is to pay no attention to her. There are times, however, when she bt:comes so pe1·sistent that some- thing has to be clone. Such is the case at the present time. There has been some unfounded tall< about the campus recently which does not reflect credit to this paper nor to its staff. It ap- pears to be the opinion of some, that our editorial ·columns are nothing more than so much ::;pace fo1 certain member,- o1 the fac- ult\· or other~ '' ho happen to he connected with the colle~e to air their views. We can- not be too defin:te that :mch is not the case. Those who have made these statements have asserted what is not founded on fact. Neither can it he proved in olll' single in- stance. Our sole purpn:-;e is to l'XfH'PSS the opinions of the Student nody through thP m~·mhers of the editol'ial staff. \'\'h.ile our opinions may not always r_,e pel\fcct. they are without question rcfkctrrl hy mc•mlwrs nf th0 edi- torial staff of this p:iper and by nobody else. As long as the present boa1·d is in charge of this paper, no other situation will exist. We are sure that the majm·ity of the u,n- dergraduates and the faculty realize that the editors of this paper are not the tools of the Administration. the faculty, or the Student Council. AnyoH,' who does nut believe that this is the case is mo1·e than welcome to prove that it is not. While we ma;-; not be right in every instance, we are at least hon.est. \REVIEW PERIOD\ Last sp,rin~?: t herp appe:uoecl in these col- umns certain criticisms of \\hat is known llS the \review period.\ Just what this period is supposed to he nobody seems to know. In some cases it is used to advantage, but in other instances it IS a ciecided disachantag-e to the students. Last year some instructon; arlmitterl frankly that the~· did not know how to make use of this p-eriod. They \vere desirous of making- it as worthwhile as possible for the undergraduates, but were afraid that if they did not hold classes, the two weeks would be a total loss. In the case of some students they were undoubtedly correct, but there are a number of undergraduates who are content ·o con mue · omg a vance WOl' ng·, HP 0 changes and that new social, poli- ago. spect far superior. Their system, the last minute in a year course. tical, economic, religious phenom- A New Purpose Out of Chaos? the \P'ing Tse,\ arrived centuries b 'ng bo1·n un·der our very ago at an amazing understanding ena are el · · · The aims (}f men change. Wit- a would seem that the best way to solve eyes at such a rate of speed that ness parti'cula.rl\ what J·s hap·pen- .of melody, concerning which there b 'ld d ' is a total absence of formal knowl- th · L] ld b t I d d fi 't we are ewJ ere · · ing in Fra,nce, Austria, and our w M I. · ' 1 . IS prou em \VOU e o ay own a e lll e Is Our Civt\l•\zation ·crumbling\'. t t th t 0 edge in the est. r. .ev1s s ec- own coun ry a e presen · m - ture this evening should be both set of rules to ~·overn these last two weeks. The world is sick and decrepit. ment. Imminent war is not the highly entertaining and enlighten- th ·cause of our woes. Our woes are · be fore examinations. Such a step, should be When the civilization of e an- mg. ·c 1 ·ents bec·ame soft, wasted, hybr1d, rather the cause of imminent war. II d t · 11 N t th f d k t' · of The Union College String Quartet taken in order that a stu· en s In a· courses it fell under the advances of a vig- , 0 e e pro oun s ep JcJsm , · h I . h our age. How many men believe will play Glazounow's \Interludmm may have the same oppot·tunity and the same op· reooupslea;~:~u;o :~~~~! ~~ 0 fh~i/o:~ in the gods of their fathers'? Reli- in Modo Antico\ on the Russian f . f\ 1 U d d' d h gion plays but a small part in our progr·am which compri-ses the organ amount of time to prepare · or· Ina s. n · er wolth speaking about, but 1 · ave lives. Also, we no longer feel our- recital Sunday afternoon. This slow d . . h . t th great possibilities inherent in them selves 10 . be the ordained torch- interlude, which combines elegance existing COn. ltiOnS, SUC IS no e CaSe. ror producing what we like to term bearers of culture tG the less for- with unusually interesting melodic civilization. The history of Europe tunate portions of the world. We and harmonic structure, was Play- from those early dark and gloomy would like to get rid of the Philip- ed with considerable success at the ages immediately after the fall of pine Island .and get our noses out recent Glee Club concerts. The classical civilization to the bright- of the Cuban stew. We are fast Quartet is well worth hearing. Mrs. · t th Kinnear will offer a .group of vocal THE WAY TO ACT ness of the Renaissance, o e forgetting our beliefs il1 rugged in- reasonableness of the 18th century, dividualism and in the holy Amer- solos. Although the fact that the Union football team should have a line coach is generally acknowledged, the important question still remain;;, vVhere will the line coach's salary come from? to the industry of the present day ican dollar. The organ program, which is of a is a proof of that potentiality. very popular nature, shoul'd be All Dies, Even the Union Plan especia!Iy attractive to students. The world is old: again and weak, Something new is happening to Dr. Tidmarsh will play Tchaikow- the vigorous barbarian drive hav- the world and we do not know sky's \1812\ Overture, \Marche ing dissipated itself during the past what it is. Union Colle~e feels this Slav,\ and the Melodie in E flat, 2,000 years. Today there are no strongly and tries to justify her and Rimsky-Korsakoff's exotically barbarian hordes threatening to existence. Rather than go out of· ,beautiful \Scheherezade\ Suite. sweep down on us with physical vio- business she moves with the times The thrilling, vivid splendor of .the lence and wipe us and our ideas and changes her purpose. But can \1812\ Overture, and the contrast- from the face of the earth. The she still be called a colleg-e? With ing thunderous strength and now race of man is going steadily on the flush of prosperity in the 1920s piteous, now gay folk music of the down grade. Soon he will be in some universities began to give \Marche Slav\ are equally familiar. the same category as the trilobites courses in salesmanship, cheese Sigrid Onegin, famous contralto, that once ruled the earth by sheer making, field fertilizing, hotel man- will sing in Skidmore College Hall, strength of numbers. Man's day agement, and cow milking, for the Saratoga, Monday evening at 8 will soon be over altho1.1gh there is pursuit of which at the end of o'clock in the fourth concert of the no one as yet to challenge him. four years degrees were given can- Sltidmore Music Course. Tickets Perhaps 50,000 years will tell the didates. may be procured at Miss Starbuck's There are three possible ways of raising the $1,000, the estimated sum necessary for an assistant coach during the fall season. One is to have Board of Trustees of the Col- lege approve of f'.Uch an addition to the bud- get of college expenses for next year. An- othel' is to secure a gift from some kind hearted alumnus for the specific purpose of improving the team. The third way is to draw the requirerl amount from the student tax fund. tale! Is Union doing something ana- ·office at the College, From a l'eliabl<~ soul'ce it has been learned that it will be practically impossible to in- creasl.' tht' colleg·r budget for next year, for the Tru.-;tecs me having· all they can do to make cnc!s mee: with the present greatly The insignificance of man:s posi- tion on the universe is tremendous. Yet we here at Union, as elsewhere, are vain. We are liable to fits and show symptoms of chronic meglo- mania. We stay within our little province and never look out. We like to think that we possess olym.- pian aloofness to everything out- I EASY ON THE EYES I curtailed Ludg-et. The second method is pos- ~oo This is Wonder Why Vieek. sible !.Jut highly improbable, for most alumni step up, Jadeez and gents, and have · · your problems solved with neatness :tssociations are having difficulties rnamtam- and dispatch. ·ng- t!1eir schnlan;hip funds. * • * The St\. 1 - 1100 For instance. does someone in , There r~nmins the third way. the audience Wonder Why chmch de nts P'l\' ~·>1 \)ll() a vear to the athletic de- ocws aJe empty, and gE'tting no '• ~ ~ ' · iuller week bv week? Answer: th1s P artment. Dm i1w the past two years a sur- so1t of thing-. Last. we~k Mr. Ear·le \ W. Evans of WJtch1ta, Kansas, plus of nearl v $fi,OOO annually has accumu- 1 pi esident of the American Bar As- h • l ._ · · f tl · , sociation, speaking in all serious- lated, so t at at t le uegmnmg- o 1IS yem: ness to the students of the Harvard t he tot'tl '-'UI'IJ.lus w·ts over ~11 800. And the Law School on \T~ings Not Taught ' - ' ' •? ' in Law School\ sa1d: \Go to church, footl.>all team remains outstanding because even if it is hard for you to take. . . . . You'll meet a lot of nice people of Its 1 ow of defeats and because of 1ts umque there and see the best citizens. It ()ll u. nlc'ln \OHC!Jill.lf S,\'Stem. It WOUld be dif- isn't so i!-llJ?Ortant for you to see '- '- , them, a6 1t 1s for them to see you. fic:ul~ to find anr,ther college of om· siz-! which Now that's called the church 1 acket, but what of it?\ has no line-coach or whose football team gets • * * truunced so reg·ularly. ooo Next customer Wonders Why there are -ractically no male stars \\'l' lJl'liL•\ L' that the lll'C~ssary ~um to pro- in the talkies. o1· fltst-Jate films k f built around actors ratl1er than cure a good line-coach should be ta en rom actresses. Answer: this soit of the athletic dejJa.rtment's lar~re 1·eserve fund. thing. A recently arisen male star \ in conference with Mr. Ben Hect, This would not be an expenditure, but rather who had been assigned to write a story for him, broke up the party an in\'estment, for a better coaching system with this classic declaration: \What l t 1 · h 1 tt I want is a story which makes me maces a strange !' eam., w 11C means a Je er 11 lover of everv young girl, a hus- sea:son, and, obviously, better gate receipts. band to every wife, and a son to every mother.\ The power to Make such an expenditur.e of * * * the studl'nts' money lies in the hands of the ooo After a lot of urging, an obliging friend Wonders Why 90% students, who n1n~· act through the Student of the Mothers' Day greeting cards . wear chromo reproductions entitled Tax Committee. ''Whistler's Mother,\ when Whistler himself entitled the picture \Ar- rangement in Grey and Black\ and said that he couldn't conceive of TH.E RIGHT IDEA anyone being interested in the iden· tity of the sitter. Just galloping sentimentality, that's all. * * * As we have snid in these columns on sev- ooo Here's a body who doeG not em] other occasions, it is a fine idea for dif- Wonder Why, but Wonders Wheth- er the grealest-Franklin-since-Een- ferent fraternities to get better acquainted Jamin will insist upon a 40'/t reduc- tion in the g·old content of Phi Beta \\'ith each other. The other night one house Kappa keys, one of which he wears was the g·uest of another at a buffett supper. conspicuously? * * * The evening was a complete success from ooo The London paper which caH-. ever,\' an~rle. ed Gertrude Stein'so autobiogtaphy c• \the apotheosis of the absurd\ was We suggest that other houses take ste}Js not very far off the bull's-eye. Yet we are enormously attracted by the to get bettet' acquainted \\'ith each other. title a-nd the pub!Lshed accounts of Vv . d t th' 'd · 1 t h her opera \Four Saints in Three e o no encourage lS 1 ea Simp Y 0 ave Acts\ with its now-classic stage di- another opportunity to harp on \spirit\ rection: \It might be mountains if i.t were not Barcelona.\ again. We be]i('ve that by getting around to * * * other houses, the .existence of the under- ooo Truetalk from a recent article by President Hutchins of Chicago: g-raduate here c~m be made much more pleas- \A university should be the etroli.g- t bold of those who insist on the ex- an • er.cise of reason, who will not be A start has been made in the right direc- moved by pa.ssion nox buried by blizzards of data. The gaze of the tion. There is 0very reason to believe that university should be turned toward IGNOTUS. other houses, the existence of the und.er-. ideas .... Its object is always un- derstanding.'' least, something worth trying. From 27 links . • 0 • ONE STRONG SYSTEM Welded together by common policies and ideals, the 27 Bell System companies work as one. Operation is in the hands of 24 associated tele- phone companies - each attuned to the area it serves. Scientific research and manufacture of appara- tus are delegated to Bell Telephone Laboratories and Western Electric. Co-ordination of all System ac- tivities is a function of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. Thanks to the skilful teamwork of these many Bell System units, you can talk to almost anyone, anywhere, anytime! BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM -r WHY NOT TELEPHONE HOME ONCE EACH WEEK!' REVERSE THE CHARGES IF YOUR FOLKS AGREE. ', ... T ,~- ... '

t s g 1~ a ly 11, 8 ... '! THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1934 Three Hamilton Appears As Fast Garnet Six_ ~ 0 .End McDowell and Milano Lead R . 1 F' u . 'T Season at Williams w· o· s h F. Tanl{men to Meet R. P. I. Team at Troy Tomorrow Iva s · or n1o·n omorrow --- . In · ver ·wart more . 1ve Tomorrow afternoon Union's mermen will Journey to Troy where they will encounter Rensselaer's nata:tors .in the R. P. I. swimming pool. With wins over Williams and Wo1cester, the Enginee1s have op- timi8tic hope8 to enter the Inter- collegiate Sw.imming Meet to be held at Ohio State University. Purple Outfit Has Won Three R------------------------------ Continental Qu.intet Has Won Four and LQst Four Games; Here With High Hopes frequently the team switches to the' man for man defense. Last year ·the team was very successful with their five man defense. Games Out of Nine Played; T \0 Fot·w· at·ds SCOI'e 3? Pot'nts the only Union man who scored Defeated Middlebury, 6 to 0. · \v · ~ '- · . · any l'ouls! He made six, while his Between 'Them as Union teammates missed ten free throws. Tall Guards Swarthmore was more accurate Wins from Quakers, 44-38 from the fifteen foot mark, missing The varsity six will end. its season ___ only three. C · '· tomorrow afternoon at Williams-' McDowell, aided by .Milano, was WH·h their record now showing aptain Colman Bur.ne and Hugh A . 1 I d h' h th Jones are 1 the Hamilton guar<\s .. town, when it encounters the ssummg an ear Y ea w IC · ey the real spark plug of the Union The 'Tute team i8 reputed six victories a,nd fi.ve ·defeats, the Both these men show up well, using seasoned Purple sextet. Since the held throughout the game, the victory. Although the team show- vansity basketball team will meet their height to good advanta~e. in Middlebury game the squad has Union va:rsity lJ.Uintet defeated ed up well in their passwork, they th H 'lit c 11 t stopping opposing high scoring·' for- 8 h W d d . ht fa-iled to ma!{e use of their open- strong in the di8tance events with Redfern, T~ompson, and Dugan compet-ing in these races. The dashes are ably tal{en care of by Captain Maxwell and Davi::;on, the former recel'ltly setting a new re- cord in the 100-yard fr·ee style race when he spurted the distance in 55.6 seconds. The 400-yard relay team will consist o.f the same men as last year who were only defeated by Yale ·in the inter-collegiates. e ama ()ll o ·ege cagemen o- been .practicing regularly under the. warthmore ere e nes ay mg ings for points, but McDowell was · ht t 8 00 • 1 k · th· wards. Substitute guards include 38 M D 11 mor-row mg a ·: oc oc In e C t h diz:ectio!l of Mr. Achilles and Dr. by a score of 44 to . c owe · at the basket ever~· minute, cutting D~y and 'onn:or, wo sopo mores. . Alumni gymnasium. The Buff and Bill Weld is the pivot man. Weld, . Clark, and is being rapidly whipped and Mi·lano were the two stars .of away from his man time a.fter tmu col · m 'he~e ·to· mo~row Wl'th 11 t t · 1 · th the Un·l·on vi·ctory, scorl·ng 18 a· nd to score at will. \\ ue men co e \. · \' · ·an exce en· enms p ayer, IS .e • into shape for the Williams contest. four victories anli •as many defeats,: high scorer of the Hamilton offen- 14 points, respectively. sive. He led the team in scor-ing The Purple has had a mediocre their latest win iJe!ng scored over. Th•oughout the openi'ng peri'od last year. season as· far as winning games is · \' · SwarthmGre Tuesday night, the •day the Swarthmore team played rag- before Union trounced· the Pennsyl· Jerry Snyder, another veteran, is concerned, having played against ged basketball, while the Union five vanians. also ah expert at sinking his shots. strong teams. After dropping three showed some fast passwork which In their opening game, the Con· Fritz ·Crego is the other forward, practice games to Hamilton at Lake they followed up by scoring points. tinen.tals were decisively defeated but in the Rochester .and Haver- Early in the game Union sank five by the Co~gate Red Raiders, but ford games, Bob Shinn:, a sopho- · Placid, they opened their official baskets while the best the Quakers came back to win kom Hobart:s more, worked exceptionally well season by drubbing Middlebury 6-0. could do was to garner one. The Deacon's, 38 to 32. Following th.is. with Snyder and· Wel'd, the big men This was followed by a 6·1 defeat Garnet lead varied f.rom four to win, the Continent<l!ls traveled north of the offense. . at the hands of a powerful Prince- nine points during the first period, h th d t b th and at the half way mark they led w ere ey were nose ou Y e '.!'he starting Union line up prob- ton sextet -in which Williams did· 21 to 15. brilliant St. Lawrence quintet, 34 ably will be the sa.me as was used · to 31, and trounced by Clarkson, 49 Wednesday night against. Swarth- well to keep the Tiger from rollmg McDowell RWlS Wild to 23. Two more Buff and Blue more. McDowell and Miiano are up the score. The Purple then Ln the second half Ray McDowell victories were· registered over Roch- t d t t t t f · d 'th t d M St t 10 0 b t ,. t ex.pec e o s av a orwar WI rounce ass. a e - , u · 0s ran wild scoring five field baskets ester, 30 to 24, and Haverford, 25 w· ld · t t D d M f · a ron a cen er. ow an o - shortly afterwards to the Army by in rapid succession. Swarthmore to 17. STuesday night tHa 25 rnilton ·rett will fiB the guard positions. a one point margin. During the' was completely outclassed and at downed warthmore, 44 o ·· Rotunda and Semerad will be ready w· I' one time were behind, 41 to 25. At Hamilton Appears Strong . to get into the contest at any time, Mid-Winter Carnival, 11 mms this point Coach Nitchman rushed either at forward or guard positions. played Harvard and Berkshire, los- in several Union substitutes and im- In comparative scoring Hamilton. to the former, 4-0, and then defeat- mediately the Quakers found their appears to hold the edge over the. The probable starting line-up fol· ing the aggressive Berkshirites, 2-1. eye for the basket. Turner, tall Garnet, and have h4gh hopes for lows: , The starting line-ups have not guard, led their attack with rapid a victory. The Hamilton loss to Pos. UNION HAMILTON been definitely chosen as yet, but baskets. Clarkson was expected as the Con- RF Jenkins will probably hold down In these last few minutes while tinentals had played a hard game LF McDowell' ·· · · · · · · .·. · · · 1$nyder the center position for Union, with Union was content with three with St. Lawrence the night before. Milano · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·' Crego Captain Hutton and Bergman for points the fighting Swarthmore UniDn defeated Clarkson here, 48 C Waldron · · · · · · '· · · · · · · · Weld his running mates in the forward Garnets registered 13 markers and to 38. Union lost two games to RG Moffett · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · JDnes wall. Fox and Williams are slated for appeared to be coming close to a Rochestei\ but Hamilton easHy de- LG Dow · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Burke the defense post.,, wi1ile Walthers victory when the whistle ended feated the Yelbwjackets on the is a 1i·kely candidate to guard the their final spurt. Johnny Abrams, ClintGn court. The Swarthmore FENCERS TO MEET HAMILTON net. Huested, Flora, Brearton, Cor- and Buckingham led the visitors in vict()ry for Union was scored the bin, and Summerl:ayes will also scoring with 10 and 12 points re- day following the Quaker's trip probably see plenty of action. Wil- spectively. from Hamilton, where, fresh for the The Union fencing club team will Iiams will be represented in the fray, the\' were easily do·wned. · d t h th · forward wall by Sherman a.t center, Two Union Men Do Scoring ' engage in Its secon rna c of e Coach Weber of the Hill outfit. season tomorrow night against with Egbert and either Jackson or During the second half McDowell had only fif•teen men at the begin- Hamilton C'ollege at Clinton. The Griffin on the wings. Captain and Milano were the only Union ning of the year, including three same squad which faced Williams Rogers and Lisle, two veterans, will men to score, each gaining five lettermen and one senior. He uses Saturday will encounter the Ham- start in the defense positions, with field baskets, while McDowell also the five man zo.ne defense, but more ilton outfit. Sprague at goal. made three fouls. McDowell was The summary follows: UNION (44) FG McDowell, rf . . . . . . . . . . 6 Rotunda, rf rg ........ 0 Milano, If . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Gain, If, rg . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Cioffi, If . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Waldron, c ............ 1 Moffett, rg, lg ......... 0 Sem.erad, rg . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Smith, rg, c . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Dow, lg ............... 3 Priznar, lg, c . . . . . . . . . . 0 Totals ............... 19 SWARTHMORE (38) FG Buckingham, rf ....... 5 Abrams, If . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Kalkstin, If . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Turner, c . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Mercer, c ............. 0 Prest, rg, c ............ 1 Murphy, rg- ..... ;. . . . . . 1 Hallowell, lg . , . . . . . . . . 0 Totals .............. 13 FP Pt;s 6 18 0 0 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 6 0 0 6 44 FPPts 2 12 6 10 0 2 2 8 0 0 0 2 0 2 2 2 12 38 Score at half time--Union 21, Swarthmore 15. Fouls committed - Union 13, Swarthmore 12. Fouls r,nissed-Union 10, Swarthmore 3.1 Committed four personal fouls--~ Prest, Waldron. Referee -Cassidy of Saratoga. Time of halves- 20 , ....................... . 5 THE FARM E 5THE COUNTRY CLUB: • RESTAURANTS :: B IJ I • •I ••••••••••••••••••u••••• -----·0----- BAtSI\.ETllALL TONIGHT Delta Up8ilon will play Phi Sigma Kappa tonight at 7:30 in the gym- nasium, while the Neutrals wiH op- pose Alpha Phi Delta at 8:30. MURRAY'S Special Sunday Night Offering of Delicious STEAKS & CHOPS 25c to 45c TOASTED SANDWICHES Other Tasty Dishes H &me Made Apple Pie Thaes Really Home Made Thcst> lVho Have Tried Them Ceme Baclt f()r Mo1•e I Located Nt>xtt~fue High School TURKISH TOBACCOS Alwa:vs the Finest ·Tobacco From tile Diamond HorsB• Sl1oe of the Metropolitan Opera House Saturday at 1:45 P.M., Eastern Standard Time, over tl1e Red and Blue Networks of NBC, LUCKY STRIKE will broad- cast the Metropolitan Opera Company of New York in tho complete Opera, \Faust.\ and only the Center Leaves ... one reason wlzyluckies taste better, smoother In Turkey too, only the finest tobaccos are selected for Lucky Strike-the mild- est leaves, th~ most delicate, the most aromatic. Lucky Strike is the world's largest user of fine Turkish tobaccos. Then these tender, delicate Turkish leaves are blended with choice to· baccos from our own Southland -to make your Lucky Strike a cigarette that is fully packed-so round, so firm- free from loose ends. That's why Luckies taste better, smoother. \It's toasted\- for .throat protection-for finer taste. NOT the top leaves-they're under· developed-they are harsh! Cream of the Crop \The tenderest, mildest, smoothest tobac:oo\ NOT the bottomleaves-tlzey'reinferior in quality-coarse and always sandyi I I

Four TilE co:--:cOniHE:\~1~. FIUl>AY, FEl3RUARY 16, 1934 Deb·1ters to Aro-ue: ~IeLenagan to <;he Final Garis Announces New Definite 'Test \\ViUiam~ !nYites Students liTo o~:l\.T. ro}St e:n:.th:.\ir·l'OIHlitiouing· Lrctun' • iTo Pohbcal Conference t,.k'J. ~~a\a r n 1 Pr-ogranz' Poltcy tn Effect At Once --- Tl .. · Lt r •·I .• ·•·1 ...... r t h1•·•· k•· Studen·ts of Union C01leg-P have ''\'- \I• ·'\ < 'ondJ!.J<>Illll\' t. 1 · 1 J invited to attend a conference on tn t p- 1\. \I• l...r~:t.:tn ';.,.,\·I:il ~:J,:,·L11<' 'J'., In:tJ;,· ··•·It:llll rh:Ji lh·· rwmthly t•'~h an• \~tagg<'r<\J\ advantage- Government in Business at Wil- \gain:-t ltadio ,.,1 .... :r ·\ !t .. .t !l·l\ ,>f •llO.:IIt<·•·tln>.:. ,,1-1' I·•• -tudt·nl,, ~\'n~ tl.!i'll' m<>Il' tinw in whi<'h to prepare for consec- Iiams College, Friday and Saturday, \ 1 1 , ''\ 11 '\\'\\ \\ \ 1 1 \ :.' 11 11 t·ll ,. ,.,:tlllll1:ll'l\\'· I lt·an l'h:t 1 it's F F. \iaris huH announced a definite March 2 and 3. Outstanding speak- '\ Ill In !It• 1'1\il J·:n~II1•·• 1111>.: iou!ld~ .. ~,.,, i'I\\L\\ l\'l•··y a.nd a~-•:.:n .. d s[}l'l'ifit• pPl'iod,; for tE',;ts du·ring the ers of varying points of view who n::.: Tiw i<'<tlll•· \\Ill d••a.l w!l'il . Ill· <'ll' Jt•nt .-•··nw-tt·I Tl:•· t':tt·ulty w1ll tw It>quired to adhere rigidly to this have been asked to lead the round -t:dl . .t1\n .. 1 \\ ,·.,11dltl<>nln~ •··!'\!'· 1 -l'lH·dul<· :t \'\- IP:uiwd. table discussions include Norman ;,, ,., , ,, \''· , \' .. u·I•·· 1 .. ~ t!.• 11 \' 111 :t.nd 11 , t<·!ati<•n,tup '\ llw \\'h•·n ~!H <~ll>.:lllal \1'''1 JH<lgtaru\ :mnounl'<'lllPnt wa\ madP the tests Thomas, prominent social·ist lead- ..:•·n•·I .,1 '\'1.1 •d hllildliH! ,.\ 11 ~t tll<'· I \\t·I•· -ta~c:··I , .. ,] \''\I a I\ 11od of only <llll' WPek ThP nrw schedule of tests er; Professor H. Gordon Hayes of ·'··· '•·<~r 1 . .. .. . .. , ......... ,..q,,..]- :.nd :!.11<>\\.- I'\' tlw ,ra>.:~t·Iil1..: <>I a full ~··Ii<'·' of courses o\'Pt a period of two Ohio State University; Professor ... , \\' IJ .. J,·,·• •• .. ; •. _ .. f .; •. 1.,., • ,._, ·' dt-cll--1\11 •d rll• J•tli-Jwd.- \'·d<~ E'dward S. Mason of Harvard; and \', 1H1lim111. ( 'ummi.ng- ... lwld \tlirmathe IInhart Tonight on ... ;,,·, . ., 1 \~' 1 ,. 11 ... I 1111'11•· d•·V• l\l'\\'\' l'nd··• :tw 1ww .-dH·duJ.· .,f t•·~t~. all <'<llll\P\ mrPting during the fir·st Profetisor E. 8. Corwin of Prince- !,, .. ..t •. :. \\f, r .. 1 .,...... T'. , , \I• , 1 ,.~,\' ,,·:.n·-; ~'\\ I\'L'\b 111 tlw Iw•tllllli.!, bd<HP a>'~l'mbly-tinH', 10 o'clock, have been ~on. ,..:, . • t ,., ' ''\ _, ,I , •. n .. : Ltil>- .. •kill• I'd \!' :lln~:da,·, dt·alt I .t.-''\''\. '' : ,,, • '' '' .. , ,., l; ,f •·.\:•· ··nil<•;:•• yp:u f•ll thPir monthly tests. The ThE' confE'renC'e will give Union ·\'L ttw 1\\''''\'\1'''·' n>Il't<ki I t.•·,r~ hn rJ ... <'<lUI.-~·.- wlt~t·h lll<'l'l altt'l \\\c·mbly and dunng the after-~students an op ortunit to meet I<.• , r ,. 1 , ,,. . , , ., 1 . \\ . , \ ,, 1 , \\\ 1 ,,, . 1 , 11 ,\ , , \\ , il< \\\\ '\ 1: !:··n•·\'\I 1\ 1 ·d''' pl:11·•· dtlllll~ t lw odd W<'Pk::< of the college year. wHh representa.tves ofy other col- \' 1 ,. .. : ,,. ··\\' \\' ,.,,,, T':• _•n•·:.t: ,,,,, 11 ~··Bwnl ••t \' 1 ,.,. 11 tt 1 . f··>I l•tll.l'\·'''c .. t :tJ,·.-·· t1·.~1-. t!J,. w•···k- will hP numbt•It'tl :<o that the Jpges and to join with them in con- ,, ·:. '''\\· l:, 11<>1\IIJ~ -'•·n,, IJn \\'•·dw \'lav lit-' ':'''d' \I 1<'<'1l:t't><n' Ill !ttl' !<alii- ttw !II>'t ndtl w<>ek. :;idering the controversial economic t.• . 11 ~>, 1 ,.,, ,_.,_ , ... ~:• 11111 ,\ 111 tlt : 1 I·••t :lw ,·,u••·nt '\tli•· t••,t, 111 -ubjt•eb wh1ch nH·N before a:;::;em- issues which confront the country. : ,.,,, ·,,,_,,, ... ,, .,,:,, l>l\ \''' J>, \\''\ •illllll~ t!u· '\''I<' t ... :.:mnin~ Ft>brmuy 1g; March 4, 18; \Whether the New Deal marks a tl· ,,, .. ,,.:t' ... t .. :.. ',:J, \\'\'' .\1•·'J~. c\ \h• t:\ T•-1-!1< .!l•t.il<'l.-llhlt'i'lt-lllaylH'givPnduringthe tendencytowardSociaUsm,whether , ... ,,,,,.,,.,, .n..: •l.•IIll•\h\·'\\' 1 •·l:.tt••n-lnp- \\•<'1\-lw:.::nn.nc: !-'•hill·\> 11 ···~ti••·Ilt \'·•·!<•. ~.- •. :1.1aiJ'h II.~''· April8.22·: it is incipient Fascbm, or merely a t·t·tUIH J·ll 11 •, .!I lot t.tJIIJ!dlt \ • •·n l ,.,d. :.1a~ t~. Jt 1 I temporary recovery program - '\'' •· .,., ,;,,•,.p ··•.l'\l' Tt.•· -•·>pdul·· .. r '\\'\\ :~nd lt'st.- p•'Iitltb fu!luw: .these are matters of nationwide in- : I \\· \' r.' t u\ll.'i' 1\ '\'\ t \\\'''' 'l····t \llit'U 'lt••l• )(Ill lit• t;ht•n I terest and disagreement,\ states the '· \ .\ ·· . .t ·. ..... 1 .. ' !, .,. !::.•··! t.r .. lll\ ''\'' lluur• \\' lluur• . ('ul, Wt•t•lt• , announcement of the Williams Col- ' I.· •;·; 1 , '\'\\ .. : Ill• 1!.\\ ... n 1 ·\' ,,.,, ,,,:, •\ l·:\'t·I• [tegP Liberal Club which iH >'ponsor- •, ~···1. 11 _ ·~ •• ;. 1 .: .•• !. • 1111 • 1 .1 1 ·, ' 1 ., 1 . 1 . ll·lL' ;-:.· ·, 1 ,·\.'.' 1 .... Evt-l! 1 ing the conference. \\''I ·1, E\'t•lt ·' ' ' .. , ~ : ;;, 1 \ 1 1 \ ' ''. :: · 'I • 1 ,'.,·. ··.:::::· \: • .'1 >t :;::. 1 11 , ~ .. , :- · • · '. ; , ·r:\\ ·; .. ·· ~:·:: 11 1\ ';:~.;;~· 1 rn;e~ing~~~~~aili~c~~~t~~=~be;i~~~~~i !'• ·~, ....•. 1 1,.,. 11 ,·· \· .,. •! 'I• '\;':.:' , \· 1 '' 11 ; ~i'.: \';j:',\~\:: :::\:\ Fridavafternoon. Adancpforthe \' 1· ... ,·. r•::· 1 .,,\:' •. ::·.;·\;~''' \~·- .~::;,;;, d·· 111 ;.· ,, \ _ .. , , .. .,.,,_ 11 ell·\~ I\ \•l<l ! dP.Iegate:o will bP held Saturday .. , ·' , ., .. , '\'·I ·h·· · \ \I ,.,,,, \\,·.t 1 ·:,-: ::n llLitl l evening. _,_ '•'. I., , . ~· .. \I ''' !I l \•' ' will cover two nights lodging \t Williams Col•leJ:!e, thl'l'l' meals, and a:ll conferenc<' activiUes. All intt•r- ested in attending thP l'onf<'t Pn<'<' arP aHI{E'd to :;ep Profp:;:-;m· A. not·- don Dewey, 1oom 3. South CollPg<', to n1ak~ th~ nf'~t·:-;:;arv a.J rangr• mPnts. l) Social Notes The Faculty Women',-; Club will give the first of a <Oet ie:o of fout Leas Thursday afternoon at 4:30 at the home of Mrs. Ernst Bet·g. Thes .. teas are fcor t hr mPm:hPt·~ of Hw Senior class who. in order to :oim- plify matters will be divid<>d into tour groups ThP <'ommittPP in charge of the tea con,:i.;t,; of tlw followin~: Mr;;. Hatrisun Coffin. Mrs. RobPrt Abbett. ~]Is 1.::1n:<t Berg, Mr:;;. A. Gurdon DPw<>y. :\1r '· Kurt lt'or;;trneyer, Mi:;s :\ltu y ()1 <'Pll. Mn<. Edwin Hamlin. Mt s. R'tvnwnd liHI il'k, !\11' trPIII gt• K•·:lo~·.;. :.!1<1 :111>' Dwight \'an AVt·ty. Pzofe-s.~ot JantP-. (;J t't''l l1··s vited hi~ Hist~>IV of .\11 d· tPa at hhi htHllP ·at x;,3 ·~,dt ~t. :::lunday af1<'1 nuon ,. tul 'll The Psi l'p:;ilon frat<·I!lllY wa- \ gue:;t of Chi Psi fta1t'l nitv :tt tih'll lodge for a bufft>t .'UPJ>;'I ~··J v•·<i Tuesday n•ght 't,. ,\,t; ··1.· )I-t' ''.• 'lt•'ftl ~-- ttdllf•'tlt l'\l ...:I· Tltl!l 1 ::ll-~.:1 11 (Jtid I Th!'• yeai·' nfnren wt'll b ·,t· I'·· · '·' .. , .... , \ \\\\\'·I· .t:,. \' . s s co < cP e :.. :· >: '·•: rl 1 .·,,.~~ .• ,,,, ,., 11 , 1 , 1 , 11 ,I , 1 ,,,. '1'··-r- !<>I .-ui>Jl'<L• \' ..:I•\IJ\ I. II, Ill. and 1\' will bP a!'isigned tothelsimilar to one hpld two yean; ago ., lllt:::• 1 , , \\\Ik•·•! d• c 1 ,., lkl•· ;~··:l \''' ,,_ .. 1 ,.,,. • .. :1·.c•· '''\I ''\d t. 1 :til otht•t .-ubj<\C: to thf' odd weeks. at Willi~ms. on .Capita!i;;m an~ it,; lt'olluwing the l'rd >t>II:\\':t·\ J:, !wl' li :-'!t t•·: :\1 \·'· F:.,r;. t.~ ,;·, 1 , , ,,~,, 1 .], ,.,J, 1 ,. :<II\\·'\' ,, 1 11111 ,. lit•· tll•t w•···k 1- t!:•· 111.-1 \ o! I<'<'1l:i\ton' m tht> Fall. All~Inattves, whtch a number of basketball gJnH' tomoiiOW m>.:ht i'•I .... . .. ,,,. ·1r; \·• :ll'lll!. \\:ii '\ . \ 11 1 ., '\'\ -uht•·• 1 11 . tlw ~l··mlwt- nt :!11· tac·ulty ..:i\'IIH! J'tJUl><'' not p1o\'1ded fo1 in thi,; pro- Unwn students and several faculty J Upo;ilon will hold a formal datH't• . ...... ·i' !: .... ,. \'· ,· .. ,,_, , .. _.~. .• , ... :; •. _ .. '\'\'' r', I•11Iid111c; \'!.III'\'' ''·1'1'1' · .. n ... ,J>.:m <>I lilc· ,·oiii'~P fm tht• a,;,;ignnwnt of a test members attended. I The mu,;ic is to bt> futni:-dlt'd by ·, ,,. r· .. ·''· ·:. ···I'\ , ...... ,,.,,\ I\\\.! A fee of $2.75 for each delegate 1'hP Revplets of Am<:<tt>Idam. ;,. _,, T I '' · 1• .... ,, ·- ·' \··· F .. , ,,. , tlll• nt .-•·rn•·-t•·t t•-t.~ 1n ~ubjt'<'t . .; m giUU!J<' I, II, III, and IV • !t· ·'·' 1 l', \\: llt·•· :--!'.dq- ~o,vil: ht· ..:,\(11 duitll;..: the \\t'l'k- lw11.1n111Ih.! F'Pbtualy 4. lK: March 4, 18; \'·· '' ,, 1:. ;-;u: •. -··,tl' '' 1 \ .. ~ .. ,1.· .. :: .. : .. • \ ~oviet Is hH.·onsi:-;tent In .\pill 1:. ::\'. :\I'' 1:1 T•·\t' tn ,til t'llwr ~ubJl'<'t\ will be given during the 1 :'· •\ 1 1; p,. ·' \\t•t•l\:- in :...:nnin.: Ft·bt Hal~ 11. :!;1: ~1atl'l1 11. 25: .r\IJI\il ts, 22; }1ay 6, 20. :.:.':,·. ,'.';· ~ .. ~'j l>l'I':.J'\,:':~:;,,,',· .. :::_:.· 1 ,·.j.·, 1 '.:, \ Eduration, ~ays :\Iosl'le~ J,,.,. 1 , r .. I. ,.,: ... '\'\I .. n \ Ill•·ag•·• Inulatl'.~~-;~~~er·efor<> scholar:o are 1 . \\\'''\ ''' •·,,, ,-. '·''\''·''·\ l:t .. ~. T·· \•\·'\· l:ll-- .. ••• _,.. .,,,., .. : l>I<'\'' .. n.: .tn ,.,.,.\\'\nallllt unable to put·ehasP more expPnl:>ive Jl \\\ .• , 1 ... .',: .. ! . ., ·• •.•• :.r:~ .~ ... ~~t..:•·\•:t:.- ··! tt-..h \tJ.l~n:t·-~------------------- 1 ; I ':I , ; 1, t ! , t t ' 1 - t t II t !! I, t.l i l,' ! :.t .t\ I ~ : • i I •• ' \ • : I ' ·. ·.:. t' •. \ li '• ;, . ',\ :: '. ·.• .. :· \·1'' ( 'ORIUX.'TION '·\ I Tht· ••tl:·::t. ~11\.:t·' :...!!l\\t•I111llt'l1t \' ,,. n•1! .t:,,,\\ t fw ll~t· 11f ftll t·I~:n • Iltit·nt ~. ··~tt>·l·qnt·ntl\ ttl!' :--t'ud•·nt , ' I :I , •' I I..:_ I · ',\ I : I' ~· ': I ' I \\ .I ·J., •·;.t-Ii•t· \I \\ I ;·-. '.· \I. :-;. lit: T··t l.! •,,, .\ 1 I I I'!, \' .!. h, !' ... ' ' I ': I ' I.. \;· \J ... ,. ,., ...... un:tll•.• '· 1 ,,t,1·t:n t~~~.-l~n tt'Xt':-> An In TUP:41iav·~ 1.s~ue of ThP Concor- t 'I t·Jd.lt•J1 ~~:\.~ llt'f'll 't't'P!lfiy 1.!1/ltltt•d dit'n~i~ it wa~ rne-ntioned that ::;ub- -ill'l'j h, ,,. u ...... 'thll'll~-- :n that tllt'Y ruav chairn1en are to function under the Tln· · t1••'' --rlt'nd t'Wt• noli:ll;- an;i fift~ <hVl~ional chairmen in the Union ··! •.• t !I:- } {; -- '., l \ ( 't j ttl 1 !I 1t·T 1' 1! I -·\.II' I\\', o!Ti• ·1.1\ .!~ ·l:l.ll\ ··tnt ! .. - Til•· • •·nt, t•<'I ltl»llltt <>11 I'I'XI•!Jituk... l'n· Cullegl' Plan. These men in reality l:ll---t:t l~·rtunatt :v rl:t•\ art> not ::illn\\'l'd t{) ·will bt> hPatl~ of their re:spective :••t 1 h<'ll I\<>nt t·,:, a1luwan•·•·~ :H'L'\1~ \fil'ld~ of stutly.\ ·\\·if·' . .:. '.! '.ll.;. dltjt t ,.: It~ .tt~d:t·-- \\ !':,i. ·' '·'; 1••: I'\ l.••:t·!. ( \. \'. ':J' t' ,, 'L< :>1 ,. ! • :\1.\ !,\\_t•J ,. ' ,j ,. ' ~::~ ;:.l~t· ••! ::• :-'t!.,.j;d Ill ~~ \\, ·I T ::1:, \It-~ lr: r. , ;·· .. I. :'\,},c ;.,,. ( ·,,IJ,l• Ll:\ I' ~ t i 1 I ' · : t -.-1··1<-' ! . '.\ l ' • r ;, · r t' \\ t·t ,. '•' :.- ... t i I;, t I: t i ,t\ { ! 'll t l 't • ...:. ' •\\ I •l 11111 t •11 ~· Ill tl.l.··!ll:t ttl lt, ~Iltlt'·, lll'!T!·l-'', • o;t··b·tl 1 . 1 _ f,, <~'.\:- l':·· ~•• 1 •tt,n;..: ~·~~~· ''\tll!tt.lltJJ.._ ld !ht• '• ·-I • •! ',,I\ ' ! . ' ' ~ :•--•·t 111 ~ .• (' 1 ::•· ··,·l\j·•:' !-•'·'';;,! ]Il•IJlt·i'l:--.t··tt.t\ '.\t-·Jt d1lt• !·' • l t I' :'· : t L' ,, •' • ~ .t I t,' ' T \I. '.\ \' \{ !!! __: 11\.i.l' t!' lt •1' i'j tl : \ltr: •• :; 1 , I~·d:::t;.:.'•·t. i·!· ·'lJ•:•r.~ ll•·t•~··f··!t ·~-' ..... :.l•,:i! '! J ~ l : ·. :..:. ll'' ' ' t ' f' I' ! ~ ' : l ' . : l I: l·· I ! ' ' t ' : •• - I I • t. : f • 1 : 11 t I Ill) t· l IJ,t ;.' ,.• 11 .r1 ~. ! • :.•- • • ,.:\' ,,.' r 1 ·.·I .I::!. i!, . , ' I 1.1 ;-. ·!' I t!l·•-.- '.1 .\ ': . ·-- .. ~ Rohert :--.mith YLtlue E'\plains' To Him 1 ( 'olh:u,·t•'s (';-, I l'!if ll 1 - , • Ill'' 1 n I 1.1;d It\ 'h• hJ• ·:1';; ..; I' 11 • ! ~ \ ; _! ll, \\ · • I. <·' _:till I 'j{ tlt I , ,,·p., \\ ! .. • r , ! , . ptln t\I ..:.' •t'' n. , t , .. 1 • 1 1 , • 1 l ~., t, t , ' l I :-=.rt 1. t l, ' , t t I! 1 • ~PJlll+! I :t··- ill .1-~t !11bl\· ~~ -•·11d;t~ \\' • \ \\ •!\•· t, -· • \\ 1- t 1 -It ft>! f ),t I!:, 'L'':<l•· •: -I itl• tJf 1 ! t jt' l· i \\ t· I. f ! ' ' ·1 II. It I I : ! II ( '111 \\ t It t l t' I l hl'l:t ~:· Ill .: 1 : ·t·t I •·'11 .. ,- \Yt. .. ~lll'I ' 1 tl I 11 -t • t. ,. -' 11 '· •- J, '' '.'. ! , ! t •• ll t·t I l f I I •Ill II 1'• 1, J! \• •: !Jft·!~ llj.• 1 •' t·t-;, t lit!•· 111 I , fJ, -• It ~tat: l' . \ pf)tlintl·e~ . \ et in In i•:'\t r:1-l ·urrieular Lif1..· ,•, T : .. , .. , .. . : T·:· Jl-t,·t I, l~t;~ I· (;. ttl~··t I ! •. : t : \. ' '!' ,....:., ~,I I~' ' t : t' I\ ·r .. . I • ·t.'r \\ ·~. . :. t. 1 t, : t•-..1• ;. 11 t'- t 1! .. ·-, •;• )' \\';J -~JIJtlJ~d~·t! :-! ! ' i ' ' • ,. ' ' ' ~ \: • !. ,, I ' ! ' I; ·, I' -, 1 \ _ . f 1',\ .I!·! I! 1 '(: l I ; ' • 1 I>\ •' '· .1. ·'\' En dish ( ·ou rses BaH' Tem pora ril~ BN.'n ( · ut •• ,, •. ,,1; t, t:••'ll l' •:..:• 0 1· II I Jl,, IlL '\ ,,.,, '11 ,. 1···-tt f.! 'I': I L.• • · .. · L1 1 •·! • r.• llt'l! I•· :tolt}t··•f ll,t 'J . , ; • ._::-. ·-·l! l•\ l'r • d ,. , !..t \ t .1 .: I• ;·d t t.:tf 1 :_! t;,. i •.. ,,, ft.l!\ 1 . , , ~ t ! : : •· ' I ; d'', II· !i• I t L•· ~ ! 0: ; ' i ; ; I : ' {1.1 :. d1 •t.i j:t ld .. :.L·; ,, ful! tlliJt• I'' l.l ~ • I J ll t t I :II' i. I I .Jr.· ' f.~ ' I : I l ,. I ' II . ;_t \{ ' :: !·L, nu·nt .•. :: 1 t. -~ • '1 t: l \{ , .. ': : :. I \.\ . I I • I • ''.;I l ... 'l ·\\'·' .l 1: t ~ !: 'l t l 'L t' I til••' i\ t!, tH· ll'• '''' fjl•tl: : •••• 1' t .• I' <l. • : ,, ! ' : Ll 'I,, : • 'J, •. Jl, ·-: \II ,. ! \I ; 1 Fo• .tiP I• ,,:,·1 :-:. i 1- • lrl• ''- 1 !l•·t· . l ,I ~ 1- L.. )' . ; . I : t! .. '' '! l't.• -· t.: .. 'I.•· I! •• ! •-Ill' Jt1 ll,;tf It j I I t II• !\• '! :. t'.\ ,., I t I'! . !l• I l I \. 1' ( t ll ·~· tl 1:, •_tttld •tl·l·· \\.1 h't\t' tn:td' l.t•• ,.,.~.n- \\'• h\l·•· 'l,af· 1t1 ''L•· f~·l!··\\ 111...: 't .11 1 ,.nd!tl\ll.._ will h• Ht·ll . ~ 1 , t·n.dd•·· n t .. h• .:1n t;,t ''J•t: :••ll 'J.l.wh a.ll (Jt 11\\' ,, :tL\ dt -1: • and ft•l \o..·hwL d 1 •·I ,. ,,: ll- 1- dt \'tl\l1l\' Jl!:t\111:.: ROSENDALE FLOWER SHOP Schenectady's Telegraphic Flor!srt Flowers 0 f Qual ty 124 ,Jay i:'itreet Phone 4-0540 Opp. (lty Ball HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N.Y. C. Arcade f\\\\'\\'\\\\'\'\'\\'~'\''''\\'\\\\''\\\''\\\\\'\'\\\\\'''\'\'\\\\'''''''\~! 1 m II THE CAZETTE PRESS \II !~ PRINTERS !I! 1 ::::::mmm:m:::n:::m:n:::::::c::::::::m::m::::::::m::::::::m:::::::m:::m::::::::::::::i:::m:::::::::::::;;;::;:::::;:;:;;; • • • people know it! Same thing with a good cigarette or a good wood-fire. All you need is a light. And all you want is a ciga- rette that keeps tasting right whether you smoke one or a dozen . That's what people like about Chesterfields. You can count on them. They're milder -and they taste better . In two words, they satisfy. That says it. L•·' 11. .. -1.,1, a~atll :--t• that It Il!:t:--. llt•f \,1 tt',l f:•llt}\yd ttJt -t' t•Jl'ftiiC't'd f'')J1't!]lil' ,,t- :til' t~-tnpot l.t\' \\'dtJ .. L•· I\ _:t!.lllll~ ·ol Jll''-l''·ltlll-- t'llllt'\\' \'1! !!~ t ,tt I '.\IJJ llf' tl;t• J.t•~ftll:i!l~tl1 •d f.1t 111 1 \. ;tl II lf'- .i,Ud tdlt ;-t ( tttld ' I t + t1l I, f. t1 ,• : 1' ',f \'II c 1J I I If' Ill :1 ,\ -UT II•- \ • .11 t•f H.\ .'-I ill t 1 t iiJI es 1 ' ' I 'I ; ~ l t' I ( I I ' I ~: \ ' ' : 1 1 ~)I f 't· ttl tl f '.... .. I ; I Ill' Y ·11!- f ••l T ~ ,. 1 'tll•tll ( 'c•llt ~~· 1l ld• I..:: :td'l!',tf· J-:1 I\\',\ HI I 1-:LL!-:l!Y ActJlll.! IJJt•:--ld•·nt r 1 l. 1. 1 '' • t :. ~' ~I'd pc;, lof! H co (o. the cigarette that,s MILDER • the cigarette that TASTES BETTER r: t \ ' '· ·\

Four THE CONOORDIENSTS, FRIDAY, PEBRUARY 16, 1934 Debaters to Argue U.S. N avalStrength McLenagan to Give Final Garis Announces New Definite 'Test Air-conditioning Lecture .Program' Policy in Effect At Once Wl '·UI'ams Tn\Tt\tes Stud'ents Will cover two nights lodging at T P l 't~ l C .. f · · Williams C01Ueg-e, three meals, and 0 0 1 ICa On erence all conference activities. All inter- ested in ·a;ttending the conference , are asked to see Professor A. Gor- don Dewey; room ll; Sol!th College, to make the necessary arrange- ments. :SoCial Notes The last of a series of three lee- Students of Union College have \\ oolman, Cummings to Up· tures on \Air-Co~dition_i by P.: , To make certain that the .month.ly tests are \staggered\ advantage- invited to attend a conference on 1 W. Mc~enagan, General .Elec~nc ously fen· students giving them •more time in which to prepare for consec- Government in Business at Wil- h ld ?\ffi • ative Against exper·t m that type of ·engmeermg, . . . • . . · . . it Iiams College, Friday and S!Lturday, 0 · • l m · · wit! be given tomorrow at 10 : 20 . ~t1ve e~amms,~wns, Dean Cha!les F. F .. G:ar1s ~as announced a def1n e March 2 and 3. outstanding spea:k- Hobart Tonight on Radio a. m. in the Civi\ Engineering- build• . test Plogram. pohcy ai?'d assigned spemfic. periods for tef!t.s during the ers of varying points· of view v,o:ho In its seventh encounter of the ~eason, tne var ;:,!l)' J.e·La.t~r ... t-> tc.:tn: will meet Hobart Colleg-e of Geneva ;~ e rArlin clPhaiP tonight at 11 o:clock. The debate will be broad- la:;;t by thP Schenectady station of H1e General Electric Company, and will be of an hour',; duration. The [upic at issUC' this evening- is, Re- wlved. That the United States Should Increase Her Navy t0 Treaty Strength. Joseph We>olman, '3;j, and Clark Cumming.,;, '37. will uphold the affirmative for Union, while T. Conway Esselstyn and Al- !r ed Zink will argue the negative for Hobad. Union will be out to win tonight u~ an cndea\·ur to even up the sea- •on's record, after a victory over Bowdoin Tuesday n.ight. To date the lJnion team has won two and :ost three encounters, with one de- hate being of 'the no-decision vari- ety. ing. The lecture will deal with \in-' current s~mester. The faculty wHl be r,eqmred to• adhere rigidly to ·this have been asked to lead' the round •. stallation of air-conditioning equip- schedule, <t was ~e~rne~.. , table discus·sions include Norman ment and its relationship to the When the ongmal test program announcement was made the tests Thorn~. prominent Sooi~list lead- general field of building construe- were staggered over a .Per\iod of ·only m;e week. The new sched~le of tests er; Professor H. Gordon Hayes of uun aw.l cvwoLI ucli~:~n iucthu<L, and R·llnwR fnr the stagg-enng- of a ·full series of courses over a per1od of two Ohio State University; Professor also a discussion of the prospects weeks. ' IDdward: S'. Mason of Harvard; and for future development.\ Under the new schedule of tests, all courses meeting during the first Professor El. S. Corwin <>f Prince- Tilt: 11 1 ..,L vf :.11. ~1cLciug:m':o two periods in the morning, before assembly-time, .10 o'clock, have .been ton. talks, delivered on Monday, dealt ass1gued tj:le even week.; ~f ch., c<>llcgc .1:cn.r .for their mont~ly .tests, The 'l'he conference will give Union with \the physiological consider- tests fo.r the courses wh1ch meet ~fter assembly, and dur1ng the after- students an opportunity to meet ation~ in air-conditioning and the . no!')n w1ll hencefm th take place durmg the od.d weeks of .the college year. with representatives of <Jtb.el' col- general arrangement of air-condi- For purposes of these tests the weeks Will be numbered so that the leges and to join with them in con- tinning systems.\ On Wednesday first week of recitations in the Fall is the first odd week. sidering the controversial .economic tht> :;;ubject was continued wi·th a For the current semester, tests in subjects which meet before assem- issues which conf,ront the country. dh;cw;sion of the \tt•dmical design bly. may bP given during the week,; beginning February 18; March 4, 18; \Whether the New Deal marks a of air-conditioning systems includ- April 15, 29; May 13. Tests in all other subjects may be given during the tendency toward Socialism, whether ing- thermodynamical relationships, weeks beginning February H \cunent week>, 25; March 11, 25; April 8, 22; it is incipient Fascism, or merely a The ~aculty Wom,en's Club will give the first of a series of four leas Thursday rufterno·on at 4:30 at ~he horoe of ;Mrs. Ernst Berg. ']'h~se tei:ul are fo1· the members of the Senior class who, in order to sim- plify matters will be divided into four groups. The C'ommiH<:>P in charge of the tea consists of the following·: Mrs. Harrison Coffin, Mrs. Robert Abbett, Mrs. Ernst Berg, Mrs. A. Gordon Dewey, Mrs. Kurt Forstmeyer, Miss Mary Green, Mrs. Edwin Hamlin, Mrs. Raymond Herrick, Mr's. George Kellogg, and .Mrs. Dwight Van Av:ery. temperature and humidity control, May 6, 20. temporary recovery program- ;>,nd •·eonomic selection of equip- The sC'hedule of courses and tests periods foHow: . these are matters of nationwide in- ment.\ l'ourst> W·hcn C<mr,e; :Ue<:>t When Tests May Be Given terest and· disagreement, .. ·states the Air-conditioning has bt>en defined (;,·uni\ Iluys Hours Day Hours Col, Week• announcement of the Will1ams Col- Professor James Green h3s in- a:; \the application of methods con- I :\[on., Wed .. l•'n s's ::,u :\!on. X-3 :50 gven . lege Liberal Club which is sponsor- vited his History of A1t class for trolling the cleanliness. humidity, I'! Tue>< .. 'rhur .. Sat. s-s :50 Tues. 8-S :50 Even . ing the conference tea at his home at 853 Nott St. on temperature and ·movement of air rv ¥on., \TVI·e!l., I•'rL ~-~!: 50 TWed. g_~ : 5 5 11 Even ' . Sunday afternoon. I ue><.. 1ur .. Sat. !1-9 :50 hur. 9-H: 0 illven The program includes general in buildings to provide for the Y Mo11., Wed., l<'rL W:2U-ll:lO F·rl. 10:20-11:10 Odd . meetings and discussions.beginning· health and comfort of the occu- \'I TueH., Thur., Sat. W :211-11 :!II Sat. 10:20-11:10 Odd , Friday afternoon. A dance for the The P.si Upsilo. n. fraternity was a pants.\ In announcing these lee- \'11 :\lou., We<!., Fri. 11' :20-1'2:10 :\!on. 11:20-12:10 ·Odd· d tures, Pl'Ofessor R. w. Abbett de- \'II 1 TueH .. 'f'tn 1 r., Hat. n :20-1'2 :10 T.ues. 11 :20-12:10 Odd el.egates· will be held Saturday. guest of ·Chi Psi fraternity at their clai·ed that the subiect is compara- IX :\lolL. \\'ell .. l•'ri. 1:30-2:30 Wed. 1:30-2:30 Odd evening. lodge for a buffet supper served tively new and will undoubtedly in- X 'l'u\''·· Thur .. Rat. I ::!0-2 :30 Thur. 1 :30-2:30 Odd This year's conference will be Tuesday night. fluence building con~truction of the· *Tests for subjects in groups I, II, HI, and rv will be ru;;sfgned to the· similar to one held two year.s ago ---- future to a rp.arked degree. Here- even weeks of the coHege year and for all other subjects to •the odd weeks. at Williams on Capitalism and its Following the Union-Hamiltr-n after a considerable amount of time The first week is the first week of recitations in the Fall. ALternatives, which a nurnber of basketball game tomorrow night Psi will be given te the subject in the· Members of the faculty giving courses not providecj: for in this pro- Union students and several faculty· Upsilon will· hold a form<tl dance. rl:'gular college course in building gram will apply to the dean of the college for the assignment of a test members attended. The music is to be furnished by const1 uction. period. A fee of $2.75 for ea<:h delegate 'l'he Revelers of Amsterdam. Robert H. Smith, '34, and Franci.s Townley, '37, upholding the affirm- ative. up,;et the Bowdoin College team Tuesday night on the topic, Resolved: That the Power» of the P.J,esident of the United States Should Be Substantially Increased atS a Settled Policy. Bowdoin was r ep1·esented by Edward C. Uehlein, '34, and Harold C. Tipping, '35. The debate was a platform engagement :,ponsored by the Schenectady Busi- ness and Professional WomE>n's Club. and was held in the solarium of the Hotel Van Curler. Union re- ceived two of the three judges' votes. The judges were Miss Rob- ella l'.ic'Wade. teacher of Public Speaking at Nott Tenace High School. Mr. Harry Linton, Assistant Superintendent of Schenectady Public Schools. and Mr. Carl Sny- <..:er, Resident Manager of the New York Telephone Company. Miss Lorena McGee, of the Professional Women. presided. -·--~-o------ Soviet Is Inconsistent In Education, Says Moseley For the cur1 ent semester tests in subjects in groups I, H, III, and IV will he given during the weeks beginning February 4, 18; March 4, 18; April 15, 29; May 13. Tests in all other subjects will be given during the weeks beginning February 11, 25; March 11, 25; April 8, 22; May 6, 20. been forced to exist on a meager mulate, and therefore scholars are uiet of bread and an .occa;sional bit unable to purchase more expensive HENRY'S BARBER SHOP SARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade Thf' modern Russian scholar is bound by the centJ·al Soviet govern- ment in the same manner the ,;cholars of the midd.Je ages were pr evt-nted by the church and state from f1ee thinking, was the theme of Dr. Philip Moseley, of the His- tory Department, in his speech Wedne•day in daily assembly. The· su'bject of his address was \The Life of the Scholar in the Russia of Today.\ The judges for tonight',; debate have been announced by Smith, manager of debate, as follows: Pro- fessor Daniel Carroll of the Depart- me·nt of Political Science at the University of Vermont, Burlington; .M1·. W. H. Pillsbury, Superintend- ent of Schools in Schenectady, and Colonel ·•Jim\ Healy, Albany \Times Union\ Airca.:;ter. -·---o•---- Robert Smith Explains College's Value To Him \'Collt>gP mPans more to me in contacts I make, and in the broad general know.l<>d!?:e I gain, rather than in the specific facts of any cour:;~. which are soon forgotten,\ declared Robert H. Smith of the Senior class in assembly yesterday. \\Yhat I want to 'how i~. thn.t fnr the »eriou~-minded student there is a wealth of material from which to benefit in all the ~nurses. Whether or not the studE>nt will benefit from thi.,; material in f'ntirely up to the student himself.\ 0 Dr. Moseley told how there were a few or.ganizations in Russia which have ·been a·ble to solicit the aid of the central government in uettering the conditions of the scholar. In one case they were able to get a worki·ng man's ration for the student. Heretofore the scholar had been considered as a member of the white collar class. and had Stage Appointees Active In Extra-Curricular Life 1 Continued f1 om PngP 1 l a..;wciate editor of The 1934 Garnet. Tripp is a resident of Schenectady. Henry Tulloch. who is a contri- butor to The Concordiensis, and Wil- liam Winne are both resident,; of Schenectady. Paul Wassmansdorf of Scotia is editor-in-chief of the Idol and has won the va1sity golf award. HE>. too. was an associate editor of the 1934 Garnet and i,; a contributor 1<1 The Concordiensis. 0 English ( 'ourses Have Been Cut Temporarily ( Continu.~d from Page 11 To this total must be added the> 3 hour coUlse in art given by Profes- <-lol G1 een. Twelve Teaching Hours Minimum The tru~tPPS hav~> agreed that 12 teaching hnur>< is the proper mini- mum teaching toad for thP rnenl- brrs of the faC'ulty. Hence the abcwe schedule of Ill houu; 1 <'ll ui1 e,; the services of 6\t men in thi» field. The stall now numbe1s six full time teacher>< and one part time teacher. Th<> college cannot afford to make additions at this time. If the mem- bers of the staff are willing to take on other cour,;es. that is, more hourfl of work. there can be no ob- jection if the important instruction of Freshmen and Sophomores is not thereby jeopardized. These are the arrangements that must be followed for the next col- lege year. Beyond that we have made no plans. We hope that in the following year conditions will · be such as to enable us to begin the expansion which all of us greatly desire and for which at least one of us is devoutly praying. Let me state again, so that it may not be overlooked. these enforced curtailments are temporary. With the beginning of prosperous times, our first act will be the restoration of faculty salaries and our second the enrichment of our curricula. Assuring you of my sincere ap- pr·eciation of your helpfulness, I am, Yours, for the Union ColtegP undergraduate, of fish. volumes. ------------------------- The central Soviet government will not allow the use of foreig-n currency; consequently the student is unable to obtain foreign texts. An exception has been recently granted to the students in that they may now spend two dollars and fifty cents per month on textbooks. Un- fortunately they are not allowed to let their monthly aU.owances accu- CORRECTION In Tuesday's issue of The Concor- diensis it was mentioned that sub- chairmen are to function under the divisional chairmen in the Union College Plan. These men in reality will be heads of their respective \fields of study.\ ROSENDALE FLOWER SHOP ScheneCitady's Telegraphic Florist Flowers of Quality 124 Jay Street Phone 4-0540 Opp. Otr Hall t:.:,::m:::ms::r::::mmmm:::mm:;::m:::mmm::mmmmmnmm:mmmmm::m:mmmm:mmm:m:::::::m: ru rn m m I THE GAZETTE PRESS ~ I PRINTERS ~ ill I n:m:::m::m:::m:m::::n::::mcm:::un::u:::m::m:m::::::m::m:::m:m::::m:m::mi:m::::::mm:::::::;:m:;::;;g • • • people know it! Same thing with a good cigarette or a good wood-fire. All you need is a light. And all you want is a ciga· rette that keeps tasting right whether you smoke one or a dozen. That's . what people like about Chesterfields. You can count on them. They're milder -and they taste better. In two words, they satisfy. That says it. the cigarette that's MILDER • the cigarette that TASTES BE'ITEJi EDWARD ELLERY. Acting President. @ 1934, lraanrr& Mvnas TonAcco Co. ' ' I

at and will four at the si<in- into f' in the Mrs. and in- for on a their dance. ed by ' an ~ ) ' ' I ...... tVIII..I. · Mountebanks To Use Symbolic Masks In Their Prod1:1ction Of 'The Hairy Ape' In March StS What Is Your Opinion Of The CoNcordiensis? Questionnaire Tomorrow For Likes, Dislikes Vol. LVII., No. 36 UNION COLLEGE, SCHEi\TECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20·, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS Short . ~elling Has :National Honorary Fraternity Selects New Members From Class of 1'934 Ni~e. Seniors :Rate BenefictalEffects Phi Beta Kappa, OnPriceConditions · · - Scholastic Honor Prevents Panic by Supporting Falling M1rket With Buy-; ing Enabling Liquidation. Bear-Raiding Condemned: Public LinkH Short Selling And Bear-Raiding Together By A. J. DiCAPRIO In the bill introduced to both houses of Congress on February 9, l934, for regulation of stock ex- changes, we again notice an at- tempt to legislate against the po.pu-· iarly misunderetood and bitteriy condemned short selling of .secur- ities. It is the present administra- tion's plan to place short sales un- der the supervision of the Federal Trade Commission, which has the power to issue regulations concern- CIIARLES S• JIRIDGl\lAN JOSEPJ£ B. CORTESI PHILIP B. LANGWORTHY LESLIE R. LONG JULIUS J. SITNEY ing them. What Is Short Selling? Just what is short selling? A trader feels that a certain security !s sell<ing at too high a price. He lb convinced that it will sell at a lower price in the future and he wishes to take advantage of this situation. He asks hi.s· broker tc :;ell the stock on the Stock Ex- change. The broker who buys is not aware that the man who is ~elling has not possession of the stock. It is only when the day for the delivery of the stock to the HEXRY W. TCI,LOCH WILLIA)I T. WI~NE J,OUIS R. TRIPI' PAtTI, WASS:IIANSDORF .buyer arrives that a short sale ---------------------------------;------------------;--------- -------- differs from a sale of l·ong stock. To meet the delivery the short seller's broker borrows the stock from a loan broker who possesses it. Stocks can be borrowed jUBt as money is Jones Bids Mountebanks Use Concordiensis Will Union Plan Offers Isham Language Students For Junior borrowed. When we borrow money or stock or any other kind of property what we really do is to obligate ourselves to return the same or equivalent property at some time in the future. Theref<>re, the short seller, when he has made h-is sale, is obligated to return the equivalent to the person who loaned him the stock. This he does by ordering his broker to buy sufficient stock to cover his short :;ale and thi:> stock is handed over to the loan broker. If he is able to buy the stock at a lower price than he had previously sold it, the trader derives a profit; but if the price has risen to a higher price than the former selling price, he incurs a loss. Many Advantages Professor Herrick Points Out Benefits From Simplified Departmental Orga.nization Eliminate Faculty Strife Says New Plan Will Im.prove Student\Teacher :Relation \Short Intcrrst\ Helps Market The Univn Gollege Plan offers the Particularly in timets when panic following advantages not only to IS threatening does· the \sh·ort in- the college as a whole but particu- terest\ perform a valuable service larly to those fields of study which to investors by supporting the fall- it includes in the Division of Lan- ing market with their buying orders and thus helping to hold prices up guage and Literature. even in the face of disaster. For (IJ By being allowed and indeed at such times the investor and mar- encouraged to sponsor its own gin purchaser become extreme~y courses each division is given an timid and the short seller, who IS enviable and challenging opportun- under compulsion to purchase and ity. Responsibility for its own cover his sales, alone enables the gives them the privilege of taking investor who must liquidate to sell CJourses heartens the group of his securities. This prevents the teachers in the field of English and m~rket from becoming demoralized. a vital part in the new program of The practice of selling for future this college for the advancement of tlelivery has been upheld by deci- youth. The Plan throws the teacher sions of the Supreme Court of the and the specializing student into United States. .closer contact. Although the de- Competent and impartial eco- partment's conference m;::t!J.od of nomic students have long declared teaching advanced composition, for that short sellin·g. by restraining in- example, has always closely ap- flation and cushioning sharp de- proximated this ideal of intimate clines, tends to stabilize the fluctu- and personal faculty supervision, ations of prices. If short selling the method has heretofore been were prevented today, with the na- somewhat hampered by the large tural improvement of and govern- size of Freshman and Sophomore mental aid for busine.ss, the check sections. Now with the importance would be remo·ved from a rapid up- of English recognized by almost all ward trend of .plices which in the Divisions and with the hope of hav- long run would be bound to fall ing smaller Freshman sections and again with a crash, while the sup- enough instructors to teach them, port to prices which a short inter- the department will be in a better ~::st provides in just such a declining position than ever before to attain market would also be removed. the goal of every true college of liberal arts, namely, to turn,out stu- Enables Quick Liquidation dents who are intellectually disci- plined, high-minded and mature. Short sales enable persons who The true ideals of a liberal arts hold securities at considerable dis- education are wisdom and chara.c- tances from New York City to ter training. These qualities in liquidate them speedily and safely. teachers and students the Plan pro- Were f'lho.rt sales to be prohibited, vides for and emphasizes. it would mean that no one more than twenty-four hours mailing dis• Relationship of Teachei'; Student tances from New York could freely (II) The closer relationship be- sell the stocks· which he owns. tween teacher and student for their Short selling is also .regularly mutual growth and development employed as a hedge, to insure has long been Union's best and old- against losses due to price fluctu~ est tradition. The new Plan is the ations. To forbid short selling outgrowth of a close study and ob- would paralyze the odd lot business servation of Union's special needs and compel the charging of a huge, and is the product of long familiar- instead of a small, price differen.tial ity with the college's problems and between 100 share lots· and odd lots conditions. It is an adaptation of of less than 100 shares. lt would her excellent tradition to modern immediately affect the realizable problei!lS, and aims to give the stu- value of securities held by millions dent adequate preparation for liv- of small investors all over this . ing . in a changing age. It is an country. original yet sound solution of many In times of depression there is a ancient and recent difficulties. It 'ack of confidence and an unwill- pr-eserves the· undergraduate char- ingness on the part of the pubiic acter of the college ana avoids all (Continued on Page 8) (Continued on Page 3) Prom Masks in Hairy Ape Run Questionnaire Joe Haymes, Freddie Rich, Pancho and Jacques Renard Available for Promenade The Junior Prom committee has received bids from several more orchestras of national reputation who have bid within the budget appropriated for the dance. Those orchestras are Isham Jones, Joe Haymes, Freddie Rich, Jacques Re- nard, Pancho and his Central Park Casino Orchestra, and Bert Lown. Isham Jones, nationally known band leader is now appearing with his famous orchestra at the Hotel Commodore in New York City. Joe Haymes' orchestra has played at a number of colleges withtn the past year including Princeton, Syra- cuse, Colgate, V. P. I., Rutgers, and Georgia Tech. They played previ- ous engagements at the Steel Pier, Atlantic City, and the Village Grove Nut Club in New York City. In recent years they have also ap- peared in Kansas City, Minneapolis, Oklahoma, and have just completed an engagement at the La Casa Ball- room, Philadelphia. It is the only orch.estt:a to ever record ~Im.u!Ul.n­ eously for all three of the mafor recording companies, having made eighty-nine records In the past year for Victor, Brunswick and Colum- bia. Freddie Rich and his orchestra have been almost a daily feature over the Columbia Network for the past three years and are now ap- pearing with George Jesse! on his Tuesday night programs. Jacques Renard and his orches- tra are now featured on the Gen- eral Motors program. They were previously on the Camel program for one .solid year. They also broad- cast over the Columbia Network every Sundav night. Pancho's orchestra i.s now play- ing at the Central Park Casino and Bert Lown is featured at the Hotel Biltmore. It was stated erroneously in Fri- day's issue of The Concordiensis that Glen Gray and his Casa Lorna orchestra had bid within the budget for Junior l?rom, Glen Gray's orchestra has not submitted a bid, but merely signified that it will be free on May 11. ---<0--- Debaters Lose Decision To Hobart Friday Night The varsity debating team drop- ped a 2 to 1 decision to the Hobart debaters in a radio debate broad cast Friday night by Station WGY. Hobart, represented by T. Conway Esselstyn and Albert G. Zink, suc- cessfully upheld the negative of the topic, Resolved: That the United States Should Increase her Navy to Treaty Strength. Union's flpeakers · were Joseph Woolman, '35 and Clark Cummings, '37. Eugene O'Neill Believes That Use of Masl\s in His Play Adds to Its Dramatic Effect By THOMAS S. BROWN In a recent article in one of the leading metropolitan newspapers Eugene O'Neill set forth the idea that masks should be used in the \Hairy Ape\ in order to increase the dramatic effect of the play through greater use of expres.sion- ism. This idea of O'Neilrs has not met with the hearty approval of the dramatic crilics, and Percy Hammond, critic for the New York Herald-Tribune, disagrees very strongly with O'Neill on this topic. The device however is a favorite of O'Neill's, and is being used in his latest production \Days Without End.\ The use of the m,a.sk on the stage is not an innovation at any rate, the Greeks having used it in their theaters many centuries ago. The most significant feature of their re- turn to the stage is that they show a definite trend toward greater subtlety in the drama. Masks have been used by other colleges in their stage produ.ctions and have been very well received by the audiences. The masks for the \Hairy Ape\ are being made in Schenectady by Mr. Earl Strickland, a student of the famous mask-maker, Benda. This operation in itself requires great skill, as the masks must be as much like the actor's face as possible. The masks are made of paper-mache which has been press- ed into the plaster mold of the ac- tor's face. Most of the masks in the play cover the actors face com- pletely, however in the case of \Yank\ (the protagonist-played by Sidney D. Markman) the mask only covers the upper part of the face thereby leaving the mouth free in speaking. The masks are not to be worn throughout the play. The make-up in the first scenes is to be exagger- ated and stylized. In the following scenes the make-up becomes more and more pronounced and mask- like. In the fifth scene and there- after, the masks are worn, since this scene is the turning point of the play. CALENDAR Tomorrow Daily Assembly Speaker-Mr. H. Laurence Achilles. Basketball-Union vs. Amherst at Amherst, College Orchestra - Rehearsal, Silliman Hall, 7:30 p. m. ThW'sday Daily Assembly - Professor Frederick L. Bronner, on \George Washington.\ Friday Daily Assemblv-Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, singing. On Paper's Policy Student Body Will Be Asked Their Opinion of Bi-Weekly Undergraduate NP.wspaper Question On Union Plan Paper Will Try to lVIake Fur- ther Expla~ations If Asked A comprehensive questionnaire is to be submitted to the student body tomorrow in Daily Assembly. The editors of The Concordiensis hop~ that all students will carefully and seriously consider the listed questions, and that they will give their honest opinions and answers. The editors are anxious to learn the likes and dislikes of the stu- dent body in order that they may adopt their policies to the taste of the students they serve. It is hoped that the questionnaire devised by The Goncordiensis will give the paper the information it wishes. The questionnaire is divided into two sections. The first part is plan- ned in tabluar form so that stu- dents may indicate which Con- cordiensis_ colU!llns they regularly, occasionally, seldom, or never read. The second section deals with cur- rent undergraduate problems which deserve careful consideration by the students before they give their an- swers. Union undergraduates have long been exposed to the discussion of the Union Plan. The questionnaire asks, \Do you understand the Union Plan? Do you think it will be a success or a failure? The paper, having learned the answers of the student body, will endeavor to make any further explanations, Other questions to be asked are: \Which course is the most unsatis- factroy to you? Why? It is be- cause of professor, subject, or both? What do you think is the best fea- ture about The Concordiensis? What do you think is the worst?\ Fin- ally the questionnaire gives the stu- dents a chance to make comments or suggestions. ---01--- Reviews Written by Lanabee Published in \Books-Abroad\ The first review in the section called 'Head-Liners' in the January issue of \Books Abroad\ is by Pro- fessor Harold A. Larrabee. It deals with Andre Corteano's \L'Evolution de L'Etat.\ The issue also contains three other reviews by Professor Larrabee, who has contributed to each number of the quarterly since October, 1928. Sttney, Bridgman, Cortesi, Langworthy, Tripp, Tulloch, Long, Wassmansdorf, Winne Five A1·e Local Neutrals Stage Appointments lfor All But One at Commencement Nine members of the class of 1934 were elected to Phi Beta Kappa at a meeting of the Alpha of New York of Phi Beta Kappa, oldest chapter of the honora1·y fraternity in New York State and third oldest in the country, held yesterday alter- noon. Those honored are Charles S. Bridgman, Joseph B. Cortesi, Leslie R. Long, Philip B. Lang- worthy, Julius J. Sitney, Louis Reed Tripp, Paul Wassmansdorf, Henry W. 1'ulloch, and William T. Winne. All of these seniors with the excep- tion of Cortesi were honored with stage appointments lest week. Charles Simmons Bridgman, a resident of Rochester, is affiliated with the Kappa Alpha fraternity. While a student at Union he has been interested in extra curricular activities, chiefly swimming, Glee Club, and Psychology Club. Was Class Historian Joseph Bruno Cortesi, a member of the Alpha Phi Delta fraternity, played two years of varsity basket- ball, served as historian of '34 dur- Ing his sophomore year, and was at that time a member of the sopho- more disciplining committee. He has been on the Dean's list consist- ently since matriculating at Union. Philip Booth Langworthy comes from Gloversville and is a member of the Delta Phi fraternity. Lang- worthy has played with both the freshman and varsity lacrosse squads in addition to appearing in several Mountebanks productions. Leslie Rankin Long, Schenectady, is a contributor to The Concordien- sis. He has been on the Dean's list consistently while an under- graduate and has sung with the Glee Club. Long will hold the dis- tinction of having completed four years' college work in three years when he receives his diploma in June. Wins Double Honor Julius Jay Sitney, a resident of Schenectady, was appointed vale- dictorian of the class of W34 last week. In October he was elected to Sigma Xi, being at this time the only member of the senior class to be a member of both national hon- orary scholastic fraternities. During his junior year he served as secre- tary of The Mountebanks and at present is president of the organ- Ization. Sitney is a member of the Philomathean debating society and has been on the Dean's list for three and a half years. Louis Reed Tripp, also a resident of Schenectady, is affiliated with the Delta Phi fraternity. At pre- sent he is a member of the senior board of the Student Council, the Mountebanks and the Choir. Tripp served on the Junior Prom commit- tee last year and has been active with the Glee Club, the Instrumen- tal Club and The Idol. He was elected president of the recently formed International Relations Club which took the place of Pi Gamma Mu, when the local chap- ter was abolished. Henry Wiley Tulloch, a neutral, lives in Schenectady. Tulloch was secretary of the Liberal Club dur- ing his junior year and has been active with the Psychology and Spanish Clubs. Writer, Singer, Boxer Paul Wassmansdorf is editor-in- chief of The Idol, Union's merary quarterly and is a contributor to. The Concordiensis. He is a mem- ber of the Glee Club and the Ger- man Club and plays with the var- sity golf team, and was lightweight boxing champion of the college two years ago. Wassmansdorf is a neu- tral and is a resident of Scotia. William Thomas Winne, a neutral, makes his residence in Schenectady. MOSELY, STANLEY ON WGY In an interview over WGY this afternoon. Dr. Philip E. Mosely dis- cussed intellectual freedom in Soviet Russia with Dr. Philip Stanley. This was the first of three dialogues on important social questions which will be broadcast by members of the faculty. Both Dr. Mosely and Dr. Stanley are from the Social Studies division of the college. Dr. Mosely has just returned from a two years stay in Russia as a Coolidge Traveling Fel- low from Harvard.

at ll'I'- Pj.!P, will fuUI at hes .. Hw :,;im- into in t IH• n:-;t :\11 '· I Pl\ll. :.)lll Jl tul t ( ll :t tih'll Vt·d ll l ,..,. ·d b~ ............. a TER I J i 'I ~. ·\ ~ ~ l'~v ;:-;ylllbolk :'ll:tsk,; In Th<>il' Prod \'lf· t i o 11 0 f 'Tiw I bit_, .. -\Jll'' IH :\Iat·ch • CNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., Tl.\ESIJA Y, FEBIU.:An.Y 20, 19:31 • What Is Your Opi IIi Oll 0 r The Coneordiensi;,:;? Questiu1111ain.> To!ll(J!'l'O\\' For Likt>s, IJislii\L'.'i PRICE FIVE CENTS ------ -·~~~~-~-- -~~~-~=~~~~~-~~~~===== Short SeHing Has! National Honorary Fraternity Selects New Members From Class of 1934 1 Nine Seniors Rate BeneficialEffects Phi Beta Kappa, 0 .. 1PriceConditions Scholastic Honor I l'll'\<'lll~ P.tnk h,\ F.~Hin! .\1 td,d . t· I !\'nppor mg· En:thl!ng- \\ ith Buy- Liltuidation: I ni.'ar-Raiding· ( 'ondemned I I Link·, ~hort ~elling ~ H~ \ . . J. lli('\1'1:10 !n 1! •. 1•:.: 11.:,: r •'11' t·d 1\ l\·th .. 111!:--t·s nf l'll!l·~l t·-:-. ,,n Ft>hi ua.Iy U. ;~.;;-iJ, f()I 1 t·;...:ultttiutJ \r ..... tuck •·x- ,·J.an:.:~> • ..:, \\t· a:..::dn 1111tt<·t· an at- !t•IJJJ•f to !t•:.!l.~:·tlt• :t.''llll:-.t tht> JJilpU- ' II~ !!ii.~HJlo;J·J(-tr•cnj :Llld hJlt.PlJy I ' I orJ f :1 !} ; }lt- I, :--i!f tl J >I , , J Il _: ( tf •'\ t'(' lll ,,.,._ 1~ 1 .... t!.t· 1\''\'1':,! ;tdnuni:-.tt:l· '\l 1 tll '- J•i't!l ;,, pJ;H'I ~'Ill ( :-aft>:-> llll· 1 ·i'l 'l.t· tq•t·J\'t-tclll ,,t 1ht· Ft·dPtal Tr:t.tl.• ,., !Lr: > ... 111n \\tl,clt h:~:--: tlit> ~1•'\\t'J l•t 1·\-];t• l\t'.ll 'l.lltll\_.., !'OlH't'lll· th·fiL \\'ha,t ,.., ~;lu.rt ..;.,lJing '! .I \\ !. .. ~ 1.\ ~J.,,:: :--t·l.lll~ ·• 1\ P:•~·: It I . h:d ;t I I!' til\ :-ot•,'lll tt\ ''- :t.t t''\ !.1~··, a Jll:ct· I(t- '.•1.\'l!lt'c•t: ~f.'!! ,t \\'111 .--•·li at· a .,.,. , , J•! !<\•· 1:0 t 1:t· fut'uJ•· and la· '\ • ; I 1\.1 ~·d.t· :tL\' tl\la;...:t• 11! tt11:-: I 1: , 11 ! !t· h.· I: I· ll!. tkt·I 1t , . .~ ·~.·· <·L J, ''ll tflt' -'ttwl\ I·:x , ! :Jt;_:t•. TLt· In {)kt•J \Vho buy:-: 1~ ,, •. , /t ...... : •· th;d tht· Ilt:tn \Vho I::-' _, ·, .... \ I•• .t (H :-..·t·.-.:·qtJJl ul t Lt .. :, k I' ........ ;.>. \\i.Hl thP <.i:J\' fui' -~.,. 1,1 .J·,,.J_\ ,d· 't;,,. ~t(ll'k t11. thl' I •'ll\1', ~!t\t'- th:il :t .:--hi!Jl .... a.Jt·, HISFPII B. ('HHTESI PHIL II' n. I.\ :'\!;WOUTIIY LESLIE H. 1.0::'\(; JI'J.Irs ,J, SIT:'\F.Y II F \ 1: \ II , ·1 II I Of II II I I I I \ \I T. \\'I\ '\ F I Ol'IS R, TH.fPI' •• :.,. :·:till! :• :-;H.;t .. ,f ;,,n:... ;--:to('l\.. To; .,- ;;,. t'!··!\· !Itt· ,;ll .. ,t >'t·iJ ... ,., U · PI Off Isham Jones BI.ds Mountebanks Use Concordi·ensi·s WI. II ·. J,,l : .. , .. ,.. tho· -l .. o·k flt>!ll a nion an ers .::,'.~:~:::;·~:,~\~:.· .'\;: ::; .. ~;~;\~:·Language Students For Junior Prom 1 Masks in Hairy Ape Run Questionnaire \\·J~, ~· WI h1tllt1\\ Il!tlllt'\\ 01 t--toek M Ad t ----- I 0 Paper·'s Policy \' \1\~ '.I ht•l l{tnd of Jll'\l;l'l'lY what any van ages J II I' d \' R\ h I L' 0'\ 'II B I' Th t I n ,., ,. I •..• ::,· do b to ubligatt• OUI~elve,; . ue ayrnes, < re ( Ie IC 'I r .. ug-ene .... ei e I('Ves a ; .. rltutn tilt· ~amt• \ 1 Pquivalent Pam·ho and Jacques Henard: Cse of Masl\s in His Play ''\I\'\~ at- •lllt' llllll' in thP futun•. Professor Herrick Points Out. ~tudent Body Will Be Asked Their 011inion of Bi-\Veekly lTndergraduate ;\;P'' spaper T!.t•l ( :·o, ,. t I;,· \''\' t ,pJ]Pl' when lw .\vail a hiP for Promenade .\dds to Its Dramatic Effect 1 ,, \\\:•· !.., \\~'·· '\ t!hll;..::Jt!'d t\ Benefits Ft·om ~implified. ;t··turn tl:t· t·qui\·a!t·nt lo tht> pt>t~un 11 \\ t .. .~n.·<l t:1m t 11,. ,tuc-k. Thb t:\ DPpartmental Organization Th<· Jun1o1 !'1om commit!t-t• ha~ B~, TH0:\-1AS S. HRO\\'l'i t:tft·.- h\· 111 dPt 111~ lu;-; bt okt•t t11 buv ~ufl'it\ll:llt :·t!J('k to t·nvt•r hb :-;.hor't ~:,. :1nd t l:!~ :-r.w.l: b h:tndt·d o\'t't ,,~~ tl:t· l\a.n .ht\kt·t If ht> i~ ab!t· t.(J htt\- t~~t-· ;- .. :t ,·k a.t a ltl\\'t't pt ir·t· than t l,'h;lli Jllt·•\'Jtltl~::-; :O:II}d tt tltt• ftadt•t t.t'li\·L ... ;1 ('IofJt; hut\ rf thL· JHiet~ has .1-t·t: It! a illl.:ht•l J>ll!'t' than th•· fllf!J;~>J ...,,.Jlttlg pti('P, h1• 111<'lllt-: H \\'hu.rj [llfl'l'l ,j\ Jlf'Jp-. :\far]H•t l·t1:1., u.:ul~- ill nnu· .. wht·n p:tllll' 1- .. 1\~·· t.lt-·nin dcu·.-. thP ··~Junt ln- tt·: \....:t J•t·J fntlll a v:tluablt· :-<t'l VIC'P ·, 111\•· .-t~ll..: hv :-:upputt\Inc.- tht• fa11- .n;...: II, I] )u•t \\.It fJ till· I} buying tll dPtS .:t~n 1~.1> ta<plll!..: 111 hdd p!HP~ up t•\.•-n Jll ti11• fHI\P 11f di .... ~t~tt>t. Fot ::t :·th h ti!Jit· .. tht• invt· ..... toJ and nutt~ _.Ill Jllll I' ]1'1 ;--1'1 .lH'I'C •T11P PXt l P!llP})' r· It.!d 'l.tltl tht~ ··IHlJt :--Piil't, \\hn l!-- ~;tl!!f•! ('•lrnpul:-:itJf1 to -pttrl'lun·;(' and ,,,\,·r L:- :-..lit•:-:. a.l11nt· t>11nhlf•s thP .II\ •·:--!·tJ \\ L11 rnu.-'t liqtudatP tu t-ot'! I ..... ·u::tl•·.- Tl\' p!P\'t•nt.s tllP tll'•lltd ·t:rJUJ ·l)l't'tlfllin~ dt·nlora;izPd Tl:t· Jn;u·l\it·t· td\ \\'·il1n~ ftn tututt· 't' J. t \ i \! ht I 11. ltJI~lt0:d hy dl'('i· Ill)' I•! 1 ~.1' ;.;up! t'llll' Ctltll t elf tbl· ' JHrl't: :-'t :II 1 ·~ (',•UlJ••···-·nt :1nd Irnp:utwl t>('O· o~•du.t· .-~lldt·n~ ..... h:t\t' ion~ dt·r iatt·d tt.a.t :---:.,.rt ;,t·;:in...:. ll\- t{':-'tratnlnu in· :·;\t nnd c·u.--ht.llt'lllg :-ha.r p tiP t Jilt,. tt'l1t,.'\'- ttl, ~:lb;:J/.t' \lot• fltll'tU· .:t,,n_- , f Jll 11 t·· If ~h,nt :-.t•ltlll~ \, t· 'I' i'! t'\ !'Ill (•tl t f ti;ly, \\It 11 t llt• tl:t- :~~1 ,; JI!,Jd••\t•.:Jlt•~lt ,,f and )..;t1Vt·tn· '••''lit d -~;d 'f,.r .lJtL-:nr·~~. tl:P c·hpc·l<: 1\ tdi·.: lu ! 1'.111• \\t d f'ludl a I a.pid UJ-r \\ d., , • t·: '\'111 , , r , , : 1. , • :-- w L w L in t l 11 ,. il- : l.lll \\ .,a:d lw b1Jllllti t\u fal: •. .t.J.l \\,ti .t, Ja .... !J, \\hi:t· tLt· :iUIJ- t~~•tl t'n prt•·P~ \\ hJt·h a :--:hot t inh_•l· , .•• J Jlfi,\\ldt•-.. ill JU.:--1 ,· Ul h d d.l'l'hllilll-! ::,:tlf,, t \\ldt:d :ti:-:.n bt> I Pllltl\'Pd Enahl•·\ Quid' Li<JUidation ~L~ )J t :-:.-tit·..., t>~l:d>lt· l'('t~on~ \\'ho · •dt! .. , (at it':t· ... at c rJ11..;tdPtahlfl du~· t.:1)11 P:\ l!llrll ~f'\\' Yolk ('it\· tn ! CjllJd:tt• thPtll !\'Jll't-•dJIV and ~~ifpJy. \\'••1\ ,_bt>l I ·'\!\\ tn hP proltih:ted. ,, \\\llllld nu·nn thn.t no t1!H' nHllP tlw.n l\\<•ntv-foul holll>' mailing <li~­ t:lll''\\ fl<llll :\'Pw Yrll k cnul<l f1 Prly ,·<'!! tli<' .-t<wk\ which ilP own:; Shott \\!ling is al~o rpgulally • znploy<'<i \'' a hedgt', to in:.;ure . :.:ain~t ,,,,.,,,.._, r!uP to pri<'e fluctu- :,t ion.c. To fo1hid ~hOI t R<>lling \'. onld p:u al\'7£' tliP 01!<1 lot businPB~ :1'11l c·PrnnPl ·t hP Pha.t1!in~ of n huge-. :n .. :•··t,J nf ,1 .~mall, pl irP <JjffPI Pn·lin.J I ,.•·\· lfHI shnt P loll' and ndtl lotR .,f :<'s• tha.n 100 ~hal p,<, rt would ''l'll!l'di l!.t·lv affpr·t the tPalizahiP ·, t:IIP 11f ~t'l'lllitH•:4 hf•ld hv rnill-inl1R ,.f ~rnall in\'PStClr:-: a.JJ (,vf'r this t\llUtltl \·. fll tt\tltf 1 ~ 11f dPpl PH~·:ion thPre iH a 'nck nf C'onJidPnrP anrl an unwill- ingn<'\<' on tftP pmt of lh<' public <Continued on Page 3) Eliminate Faculty Strife ti'<'Pi\'P<I lnds f1om sP\'Pl'H! mon• In a Il'eent article m one of thP I ----- otf'hP,..tl<l' of national lf'Jltltation !Pading ml'tropolitan tww,;paper,.; Question On t:nion Plan who havl' bid within thl' budget EugPne O'Neill ,;t>! fm th the idPa. :-;ays ;\;ew Plan Will ~tudent-Teacher app10p1 iatt>d fo1 the dance. Those that ma,;kti :;hould bl' Utietl in the I 1 •• -- -- ., hnprove 1 ozehe\t\\ atr> Isham Junes, Joe \Hait·y Apt>\ m otd .. r to incrPase t>aper \\til Tl'y to 1\lake Fur- R I ' t' Havm•·,, Fndd11· Rich. Jacqu\\ Re- the d1amatic- eff .. et of the play thet• Explanations If -\sked e .l IOn. na1 <1. Pancho and hi~ CPntt·aJ Pat!{ th1 ough gt eatet use of !'Xpres,;wn-~ • 'ca,..mo Otehestl'l. and HPll Lown. I ltllll. This tdea of 0'.'-:elll:; ha, not ---- : [,ham Jont•o, natwnally known 1 111<'t With thl' heal ty app10val of '1ht l\nitdl Cullt•gt· l'lan utflt' tht·. !Jant! lt'ildt·I 1:-- no\\ UJJfH'illlllg '<\llh 1 th•· dJamatH' .. e11t1c:-, an.d l'~·Ic} J. A t'<>IIIJ!ldH·n,i\' 1 ' '!ltt'>llolll!ailt' lollu\\Illg c 1 ,dv.tnt~q.:t·:-- nut onl~ t'u, hi:-- farnuu~ or clu·.:--ttu. at tht· Ilutl'1 l-Innlnlond_. <'I'Itlc fot. th£' ~t·v...· \ ork 1 1...- to bt· .--..ulJitd·ttt·d l.\1 tht· :-.tudt·nt t.ht• <·n!ll'gl' as a wlwh· but partif'U· • (\ommodu!P m :\I'\\' Yot]{ City. . Ht·!.tlti-TnhunP, .. <h,.;agl t'<'~ vc>ry hodv to mot! ow In 1 >a.tly ,\~s,•mbly. .loP lla~·nw,· utcile~lla ha:-; played I :<tltJngly With 0 .'-:Pill on tlu~ top!<'.~ Th: Pditnz, of Tht· ('on<·ordll•n,;is.· l:ulv l.fl !host· liPid~ ot ~tudy whtch at a nunzbt·l \f ,.ollt•l.:<':< within thl'. Tht• dt•\'1<'<' howt•\'<'1' ~o a tuvnlltt• of 1 11 lllt'!Udt·~ 111 tlw lllll'l\ll 111' !.an pa.-t .v<·a.l lllc!Udmg l'lllll'l'lon, ::-lyJa·, ()':\t·ill':-, anti !\ \)f'illg ust•d pt llio h<>JI\ that a:J 'lll<knt.- \\Ill ··al<'flllly gua~P and Litl'ta.tuzt·. cu:-;P, Colgat1\ \\. P I., l!ulgf'J~. nnd 1 latP:-:~·. produPttnn \J)ay:-- \\ lthout: and :-o~t·IIou:-.ly con:-~zdt-1 tht> h:>tl·d Gl'<Hgia Tl'ch. Tht·v playc·d pr .. vi- I End. , , . ~ . . . . ,· ,· _. •II Bv hPing a!lowPd and indPPd ous t•ngag••mt>nl,; at'th<' StL·I'i PiPI,I. Thf'U~e<!fth••maskontll<'>tage <JU•~t.l<lll. dlld th.tt th<) \\Ill gl\c l'l1.cout.r:igt•d to :-;pon:-;ot it~ o\\·n Atlant'H' Cttv, Hnd the \\tllag(· c;lo\'l' ~:-. not an tnnovattnn at any tatt>, 1hP!t hon\~t (lpininn:-; and an:-;\\'Pl~. l'fll!l '\\ !'ach d!Vl>-1011 '\ g!VI'n an Xut Club i'n .'o:PW Yot!{ Cit\'. In I tlw <1l'PPks having ll:<<'r! it in tht•ir ThP t·dil\l at,. a.nxiou,; to '\'\ n •·nvlablE· and chal!Pngmg oppottun- lt'l'ent ~·\a' tht•v ha\'P aJ,(, ap- thl'at!'l:s m!lny centuriPs ago .. The tht· llkt·:- and di,-hkes of thP du- tly. HP~pon,.;ibility fot its own JW>llr•d in Kan:-;as City. :\lznnt·apolis.: nwst significant fpatUIE' of theu· n•- dPlll bodv in 'li<IPJ that t!H'\' mav gt\'1'~ tlwm lhP Jll'l''iiPg<• of tai{ln,.;: Oklahonw. HIHl ha.vP ]u,;t eomplPtcd. turn to the ~tat:<e ~~ that tlwy ~how adopt lh•~n poli<'i\\ 111 tllP u;,otp o'f ('t>lll\'\' lzt•a) tt•llS thl' glUUJ> of I ,'In nl1\ll\f'ffil'l1t ',lt t.)l{' [.,'l (',•ts.''•l }',nJJ- I a dPfii11\P tn•nd toward ~lf'atP!' 1 I I . !·' f E 1 t · ' ~ h - >n tht• studt·nt,; they \''VI' It l>i hoped ti'<L<' 11'1 ~ 111 1 te ll' u o ng ~~I ai1U l<l<Jnt, J>hl'!,·t<lt•lphz·,n. It I·-~ t\-n <>ni)' ',.;ubtlPtv Ill thP drama. :O.!asl.ts ha\.'p · 1 t · tl f \ ·\ '\ that the qUI'>ititmna.ill' <ievt,;ed b~ a. \'Ita paz 111 H' n<'W !JIU~mm o <•.tcht·s.·tt•,t 1 ,, t'\'<•z· 1 .,., .. ,, 1 ,.1 .• 1 ·nltllt·,tn ', b<'Pn usPd lJ\.· <.>th•~t cnli>•gps tn th€!1 1 l I · t 1 · \!! ConeoJdll•n\w w11! g!Vt' the this n>lit-gt• !ol tIL' IH nmet·nH·n o <'<lU.\i\' f\l ,••11 !hi\'' ,,f til<' m•,tJ-<11' '.,;tag£' Jlroductt.ons and hav••. hPPn l 'l'l 1'1 tl tl t I pa.pt•r tht• infonnatlon It Wl;lw,;. \'out L H' an l!OW:< ll' Pal' ll'l ,,.,.,,,,)t'n\ ,.,,nll>ant·, •. s, !J,'l\'ln•• rrl,\l<ll'' ven.· WPII IPCPIV<'d b\.' the audtPnct•s_ .. · 1· d t t ~ \' 'fht• <iUPSll<lnnallP b d!\'ich•d into and iht• spP<·za 12111g ~tu <·n Ill o rl\hl\'-llit1<' !PC'Ol<l.>< l·n tlw pPst \'\Ill'' ThP mask~ for thP \Hally Apr 1 \It! 1 th 1 h ' ' two ,.;pt'IJOI1,, The tizst pa1t is plan- e\\'! ('()11\al'l. ' ltlllg I t' < ,. for \'Idol. Btun><wi<'l< a.ntl Coium- at.•· bPillg\ made in SehPnt•ctady by lll'd in ta.blum f<Hill ~<> that ;tu· r,~.~;, 1 ;;;~~t·;:d~-~:'~~';\r';.';:;n 1 2,~;~~~~~ f;;~ hla ~~::· ~:aanrtlou~.~ri~~{~:~r,~n' 111 ak·•~ 1 t, 1 ll 1 ~~~d~:~ t!Pnt,- mav indi<'at.. which Con- I 1 1 I J.o'tPtld!P Hl<'h and hi,; orchPstza cotdi<·nsl' · ,·,Jumn.' tJ 11 ·_v IP!.:Uiatl'·. t•xamplP, ta,; a way:i e o;l' )' ap· h h 1 t d ·1 f 1 Tlus op,.t·a.tion 111 ttsr•lf r<'qllilP-' · · J JH ~>Xlll!:tlPd this !dt·al of intmmt•• <l\~~~~·,\ttlt':\(l~\ltlzlnntlhnJs .~Pt•;~,\r)l', f~>al u1h':; gr .. at skill, as the masks must be '\'<'asionaH -\\'\\Ill, oi n<·\t'l z Pad I f 1 \'' \ .._ Th .. :-.t·<·ond :-o:t'('tton dt·a1~ \Vith cut- and }lt'l:-iflll:l acu ty :-:upct\'l~ton, f>H~t th'\\ :\.'Pats and Hl'P now HJl- I a:-. n.1uel1 ltke thP actut-·s t:aeP as tl II I l II I t f()l · h••••n II Tl k .• f t<'lll undt·lgta.<luat.t· Jllllh!t•m\ whl<'h lt' tll£' lO< HI~ P t• o t IH·atJnv V\'tth <;t·nt~P .. Jt'~~el on ht~ 1 . po~~~ J P. te n.1a.s ~ a.It' nlaul\ u l t l · 1 b t h l•t• tr ,... 1 h h 1 b dP~Pl \\P en 1 t·ful <\on:-I dt•l a.t ion h_v tlH' \>tnt·\\' w lalllp<'ll'u y \ • ,,__,. Tue,.;dal' m~ht ntogrmns. l papt·l-mac !(' w H' Hi~ t'Pn pi<'~~- , ~ . . , . ,·., ,. . ·IZI' of Flt>shman and Sop homo! r Ja<'<j\IPs HPnar d and hi:< orchPs- <'d llltu tht• plaslt•J ltlll!d of t ht> ac- I ·.~.uiiP_nt. utf<llt t.lu ~ gzl' th<ll ,lll· 'Pdl<ln\. Now with thf' importaii<'P I! a azt• now ft•a.tUIPd 011 the 0Pn- to1 's face. :\lost \f thP ma,..Jt,.; in 1' ~ \· ··f En;.:Ji,,h '\\\gnizt>d hy almost :til Pial .:\lot<lls Jllllgtam. Tlwv WPI<'. tl!l' J.>lay l'UI:l'l tht• act<H:< fan• ,·om- 1 lnton und<'l!.:la.du;dt·.- ha\t' long l1i\i··iclJ1:-- and \\'ith thP hnpP of h:tv· flJt•\'ltJU~lv <Jll thP t\'atnPl pi.ograzn, pletely, huWt'\'et 111 tht> t·a,..;t• uf Jht·t·n ... t>:<JHI:-t~d ~u tLt-' tll~cu~:-:n111 .of 111g >'l'IHIIPI F!P,;Jm:an ..;pcl!<llls and fm \'~~' v\ur. Thf'V also broad- \Yank\ , tht• J.>lotagonbt played by tllP l nwn I ian. Tht• !Jllt·.-l'zon~uul e Pnrnt;.:h in.'tlll<'l<>l>' 111 !Pad! th•·m. •·a,t IJ\.'<'l tl!l: l'ululllbia ~t·twotk. sidnt·y lJ . .:\laJiunanJ tilt· ma~k only, a;'li\<'D~> y••u undc·l.'land Ti:l' l nloll tl11• <ll'fJ,iJ 1nwnt will be 111 a bPll<'l •·l'<'l\' Sundal' mght. 1 eovt•rs the uppt•l pat t of tht• fa~e I Jan. Do yon .thml,{ 1! wtll bt• a pn.;itinll than P\'<'1 bl'fnll• to attain l'an<'ho\ o!clH'slla b now Jllay- I tht•tebv leaving tiJ<• nwuth fte•· 111 >'ll<'!'<~ss Ol a fa.liul<· ~ The pa.p<·l, thP goal 11!' t·VPIY llllt' co!lf'g<· of ing a.t tlw Ct•nl!a.l Palk c:~~ino and I «pPa.kmg. hanng lt-alnPd .tht· all>'Wl'l~ of thp llbf'il!l a1ts, nanwlv. !11 tu1n out >Ill· g 1 • 1 t Lown is f<'allll<'<l at t!H· HotPI: ThP masks alP not to be w01n .<twJt.n.t body, Will PndP:t\'IJI to make dP:ll.< who atP ill!Pll<'t'lllallv db<'i HiltmolP. tluouglwut the play. Till' 1nalu·-up any :fu!lht•l PXpla.nation,.;_ plinl·t!, high rnin<J<.<I and rmtlU!P It w:t, ,falt•d l'lltJllf'[lliSI\' in Fti- in tht• fit,.;t ,.;crnt•s i,; to bt• t•Xa)!g<'l- OtlH·I <jlll·;l!tJI1' t.o ht• askP<l alt•. Tll\ I!Ut• i<IPal,; 11f a lihP!al 111ts ,f:ty·, 1 ~sw· \f ThP Conct>tlli<-n,;b alt•d and olylizt•<l. In tiH• following \\\'hich <'olllo'l' ''tilt' nw,..,t un~a.tls­ l'dtl<''lti<~n. HI<' wi:-dnm and ~hawc· thilt ti!Pn t; 1 ay and his Casa Loma \\''liP>' tilt' rnakP-UJl b<'<'ontes mu1e fa~tluy to you·~ \\'hy'? It ts be- tPz ttammg. Th~'>'P quahtH·s In otdu·\t 1a had bid within thl' budget .md mote ptonllUilcPd an<l ma,;k. <'UUH• of plufp,\l\, ~ubjt'<'l', t>l both': t•:;\•hf'l ~and st11<lt-nts thP Plnn pt·o· :fill' Junior i'wm. Glc•n Gtav'\; like. In the lift.h ;;cen<' and tht•tf'- What do yo11 tlunl{ ts till' bPs\ fea- \'l<ir-~ for and <'lllpha,.;izP\. · or<'he,.;t 1 a lms not subnuttt><I a J]id. 1 aftt•r, thP rna,;!{~ ate worn, sine!· lure about Thl'C<>n('oldien:-is'! \\'hat H\IationshiJJ of T!•a<'lwr studl'nt . but 111.<'11'1\' ,i..;mfil'd that it will be· I' thi,.; >'~Pill' is the tu1ning point of do you think. i,; tht• Wt>lst'.''' Fin- ' . f1 f'(' on :\Iav 11. thp play. ally the qUP>'!IOnnan r• glVPs thP stu- • III The <'iosPt 1 l'!ationship b!'· 1 • • 0 d .. nt\ a <'hant'e ttl mak .. c·ommPnts tWN'n tPaclwt· and >tU<iPnl f<ll thei! 01 >'Ugg<'~ti<IIW. mutual growth and dPvelopnwnt Debaters Lose Decision I C'ALEXDAR has long bl'en Union's bPs! and old- d N'\ h Tomorrow est tmdition. The n<'W Plan is the 'To Hobart Fri ay 1 Ig t Dailv A>lsPmblv Speaker l\Ir. H . outgrowth of a clo~l' stutlv and ob- ___ LHUtPIICP Achilles. SPrvation of T:nion',; ~PP<;ial llf'Pd, Bask!'tball Uniun vs. Amherst and is the product of long familial- Th\ vat;itv dPbn.ting tE'nm drop-· at Amherst. ity with the CIIIIPg£'s pz obi ems and fH'd a 2 to 1 't!f'ci>'ion to thP Hobat t Coll .. ge o 1 <'hestl a RPhearsal, condition~. It is an adaptation of debat<'!s in a 1adio dr>bat<' hroad. I Silliman Hall, 7.30 p. 111 . her PX<'Pilcnt tla.dition to modern ~ast Friday night h~· Sta.tion \\'GY. i problems. and aims to givP the stu- Hobart. nptesl'ntPd h~- T. Conway Thursda~· dt'nt adequate preparation for !iv- E~~Pbtyn and Alb<'rt (}_ Zink, ><UC'- 1 Daily AB:<Pmbly l'rofpssor int:< in a changing age. It is an cPs~fullv uplwld tllP negativP of thP FtPdP!kk L. RtonnPr, on original yet sound Bolution of many topic, Resolv<·<l That thP l'nit<'d \UPorge WaBhington.\ ancient and recent difficulties. It · Rtates ShouJtl Inez Pa~e hPr Navy to, Friday prPserves thP undPrgraduatP. char- ~ Tt Paty RttPndh. t'nion·~ ><pcakf'l'>< · Dailv A;,;semblv DL Elmet A. artPr of the> co!IPgP nne! avo His nil 'WP! e Jo\·ph 'Vonlman, '3:; and j Titlmarsh, singing. <Continued on Page 3) l Clark Cummings, '37. () 1 Revi('Ws Written by Larmbee 'Published in \Books-Abroad\ Till' li1,.;t It'\'it·w in tile sectwn • callt>d 'HPad-Lm•·zs' in the .Januruv ' 1!-i~UP of '\}1ouh:s A hr oad\ is hv PJ tl- 1 f'p,.;sor Harold A. Lannh£>P. Ii <!Pal~ ·with Andt t' C!ll t•·mw's \L'Evnlution clP L'l~t.at.\ ThP issue nlso contain~ thll'l' othPr tt•vif'w;; bv Ptofp~sor Llll Ulb<'<·, who has cont ributPd tu .. adJ. numb••1 of th<' quatt<'lly ~inc·e October, 192lS. :--litne_y, Bridgman. Cot·tp~i. Langworthy, TripjJ, Tulloch, Long-, Wassmansdorf, \\' innc Fhc Arc Local .:\' cutra.Is :--ltage .\ppointments for All But Ont• at Commencement :\'Inc lllL'!llUl'l ~ of the cla,,; u[ 1~31 Wl'l ,. ,.J,.cktl t\ l'l11 l:t'ta Eappa at :t llle<'llllg of the• Alpha ol .-\ew Y 01 k of Phi BPta Kappa, ulde:;t ehaptel' of t!JP htmotaiy f1atetnity l!l .'o:ew Yo!l{ State and tt:lld olde;,l Ill the ('OUIII!y, la·Jd yt•,;teJday af.tel- nuun. Thu:--l' honor t'd ate Chatle:'i ;-:,, I!r idgrnan, Jo:--l•ph I!. Cut tl·~I. Ll'>'lzt· 1,. L\ng !•Jullp 1:. Lang- Woltl:y, JUIIU.' J. S!llll'\, Loui, ht·Pd Tz1pp, !'au! \\'ao~!lHU;,dol f, l!enz y \\'. 'tullocl!, and \\'llltalll T. \\ IIIIH.:. All of the ... p !\il'lllot~ \Vlth tht- l'Xl'l'fJ- l!t>ll of L'ultt·o) \\'t'lt' l:OIIOIL'<] '\lith ~ta.:.:\ aJ)JHllllliiH·nt~ Ja:-.t \\'el•li. 1 l hut lt·:-- ~Uulllutl.-. Bttd;..;nwn, u I! P~ldt·nt Df f~ochP!--lt'l, 1~ attJllc.Jted · 1\1111 tlw Kappa A!jJha ftatt·l mty. ( \\'h1lt• a otU<knt at Cnion lw hu.:; b!'t'll llltt•J e~tc·d in I'Xtl a emucula1 actl\'ltze~. l'luetly swm1min~ <1lt•e Club, and I·~yl'hulugy Club. ' \\'as Class Hi~tnrian j Jo,.;t ph Bt uno Cot te,i, a llll'n1bl'I Df lh!' Alpha Plu VPlta ftatnnity, playc·tl two yeat\ of vat ,_,ty bu;;l<et- ball, \'I \.'t><l a . .; l11~tm ian of '31 dUI- mg lus ~uphom<H<' yt·Ul, and wao at that limP a member of tlw >Upho- 1!1< •I t · d!:-<'1 plll1! ng conun1 ttee. Ht• ba~ bPen on tht• !Jt·an :-o 11:--t t·on~i~t­ •·ntly \11l<'t' llla.\JJcUl«tmg at l'nwn. l'hi!ip Booth Langwotthy come:; 11om Glovt>t ;;vtlle a.nd is a mrrnber of thl' DeltH l'ht ft all·! mty. Lang- WOI thy has played with both the ftc•shman and vat·sity lact·osse S<[Uads In addition to appearing in several 11-lounll·banks pwduclions. Le,;lie Hankin Long, Sclwnectady, '\ a conttibutot· to 1ln· Concotdien- sb. Ht• has be• en un the Dean's ll,.;t con,.;lst .. ntly while an under- gt aduate and has sung with the GIL·t• llub. Lung will hold th .. tl!;o;- tlnctwn of having cornpll'ted four yeUI :,i colll'g e wot k in tl11 ee years whPn hl~ lt'('t'ive:_-.; hi;- diplon1a in June. \\'ins Douhlt• Honor JullU,; Jav SitnPy, a 1 e;;iden t of S<'hc·nectady, wa,.; appointed vale- <ill'ltJI iun ol the t:]u,.,,. uf 1:!3! llu,;t WE'f'k. In OrlflhPt h<· \\a,.; •·Jp<·tt-d tn Sigma X1, bemg at thlti time the only llll'ntbl'l of the >'1'11Iur class to ht• a memht·t· uf both na IJonal hun- uz ary :-ot·hola:-tlc fr atl'l nlttt·~. L>Ullllg hi:-; juniot- year hP ~l'I ved as sect e- t:uy of The :o.Iuuntl'banks and at Jlll'Sl'llt b J!ll'sidPnt of the O!gan- lzatwn. S!llli'Y iB a ll!encbu ot lhe Philomathran dPbating ,;ociP!)' and has bePn on till' Dean',; lbt lor th1 ce und a half years. Loui~ Ht·ed T11pp, also a 1 P>idt·n t of SehenPctadv, i,_ affiliatt·d v.it b tl11• Dl'i'ta l'in' fiatt•! nity. At ple- :->e-nt ht:' i~ a tllt>Illl.H•t of lht> H'll!Ol' bua1 d of !lit• SI.UdPnt Couneil. the ;\!ount<'banli,.. a.nd tht• C'huil. Tt 'I'P '\' l'l'd on tlw Junior 1'1om comnut- ll't' la,;t \'Par and ha.s lH'<'II acttV(' with tl1\ ·~~It·\ Club, th,• ln,;tzunlen- tal Club and Tht• I dol. He was l'ii'Ctl'ti Jlll'>'idl'll! tJf till' IPPPntJy for·nu·d lntt·rnationnl I{elation~ Club whl!'h to11k the pla<'l' of Pi t;amma .:\lu, wht·n thl' lucal <'hap- tl't \\'a~ al1nli~ht·(l. HPn!Y \\'iJpy Tulloch, a nPutral, li''\' in :-:<'ht·nt·t:latly. Tulluch WiL<' '\''It· Ia.! y <>f t!~t· Libl'lal Club dur·- inl!' hi~ junior ,YPa.r an.d ha;; bt•en actiVt· with lht• l':')<'lwlugy and Spanbh Clubs. \\'ritt'r, SingPr, Boxer Paul \\'a,;smam•dotf is Pditoz··m· chiPf of ThP Idol, l'nion';; !itrrn1 v <j!Hlll<'lly nnd is a rnntrihutrw t~J ThP Cnn<'onlien~i,.:. I fp i~ a nH·m- hpr· of t hc> Glt'r Cluh and thp f}l't- man Club and play.' with thP var. 'lty gnlf team, n.nd w:\' lit:htwl'ight hoxing champion of t hP ''\lll';.:t· two Y('HI:.:: aL:::o. \\\a:-::-::nlan .... dnr f i~ a neu- tral and i\ a 1 \\\!t-nt of Hcotia. \\'illiam Thomas \\'innP. a nPutlal. makPs his 1 e;;id .. n<·t' m RchenP<'lady. () :\-IOSI';I.Y, ~T.-\XLE\' 0:!\i WGY In an intt•t Vii'W 11\'P!' \\TiY tl:i~ aftr-n1o•m l11. l'lnhp E. :O.!o,f'lv dis- c·u,.;;pd intl'ill'ctual fiP<\Ilom in SoviPt Tlu,sia with I lr. I 'hi lip StnniPV Thi;.; wa~ thP fi1 't of till PP dia.llll-!IIP~ on illlJH•I1ant \'C'ia:lqur~tion\ ll'hl<'h \Viii hP bhlHdC'H:-4t hy nlPDll-H•J:...: of the fa\ultv. Bnth Ill: :\!ost>ly and DL Stani•'V ar\ fnml ti~P R<H'ial S!Udir>\ dil'i>'Hllt of t!IP r•o!lq..:P. Dr. :\Ios<'iv hno just I Pt Ul lll'd f1 <>Ill a tWo \'I' a·!>, ,.;{a'\' Ill Tlu,;,-ia a,.; a Coolidgl' T1 a\'Piin~.: 'FPI- low fmm Harvard.

Two ~irnsiS \A Causa PBrsa Parole As~ai'' FouNDED H!7G ~s!:l~tiilted 0 , ~~!~~v.iate 1hess ' 1933 lHATIDNA~H~·C0Y£RAClt:) l'lJ4 o THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1934 :~::li!;~;:nt~~t~:~;{~~ :e ~:~;~;:~~o;f ~:~~.1.1 .. ===;;;;;.;;;==-F=A==R=R=· _A=-G=\'=O=======!·II ·r~::~:7~~~:~~7:;·:~J~ college courses regardless of how nnwh the ~ I /j~\ system seems to impress this fact. ~:~ C o n t e m p o r a r i e s ~~ A survev. of sixteen leading colleQ'eS shows Revel'ie c;lu JUaiin the vaunted five-ma:n defense that ~ =-;-\*'~-~--~--=-::.-~------::-~~--·-\\\'-274 · 1 f h k h .J d- t 'th God, wha:t a fusty taste! W·hat Hamilton tor Hamilton .!:'rep) ex- ~----- ~------= -~----\~~----=\\1\1 that 111 a 1 0 t en1 mar S are an~e · OR Wl . was it ... oh yes, peanut butter .. b.ibited. And MacDowel:l, ~he boy do Thet·e! little or no thoug·ht of the imil'\rovement of· · and cake · · · a:nd ale. Cake;; and who injmes so easily. And $wift) Students today are \lo:ckin?; in P Ale, ho-de-ho. Hardly seems right Milano. And Marrett ,of the bu!<let initiative, in intellectual thmKing, each individttal student other than his aver- that these sinless little snacks pru>ses. As for hockey, we·re j1:1st md are failing to apply their edu- ·~~- The official newspaper of the students of Union Col'lege. Published Tuesdays and Frid~ys throughout the college year, except dunng Christmas and spring recesses. . . d should flatten you so flat . . AB flat ~peechless. Jation to everyday !Ivmg,'' accord- age derived from exammatlon. An what, as a w-ot·n down-heel. Well, what w a member of the raculty of we ask, is a fait• examiH.atio:n that C',ll1 be about it. ·are you going to get up uouisiana State Normal College. or tty to scare up another snore , . . Socktnan on the ·College Instruc- ., • * given in three hom·s which will reflect how handiCapped by sewer-mouth. 1 say, 'to I: \The idea that MarK Hopkin~ rhumbs Don't Nt>t>.d Tires garcon what Is the temperature on ·on one end o! a log a:nd a stuuen·\ much good, Ol' how much ach1ev:ement, or the other :lide of these blankets on t!J.e other constitute a college 1\' BicycUng is staging another I h th t 11 t d t h · tbless'eml. Dare 1 denude an arm? tepTaced by the theory that re- Jomebacl{ at Santa Ana, CaHfornia, Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter lOW JnUC grow , men a· y, a S U en ·,as • Am I a man or a mouse'? Wet!, here :search and writing are tne sine qu~o. Junior College, where travdlmg gai•ned from a year's course? The question is goes! · oooooh-hhhh! I'm siuged, :wn ·of academic achievement. 'l'he . ,tnd commutmg colleg-ians have Uke a chicken-wing. Have I been mstructor, .eager to arrn;e ed1:1ca- talten it up sertou,;ly. immediately answered by our comprehensive ·inhaling that .stuff all n·ight? My uonaHy, hur~·1e~ through t:1s studer:t * * * examination s.vstem. Yes. But have we a lung·s! Oh, my poor, poor lungs! contacts, With. a pau:omzlng. ~ttl· Economic Advance Subscriptloa price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States, Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Uouble asthma, that's what'll come tude toward h!s teachmg acnVltle<. A movement has been sta·rted at compl'ehensive marking system? of this. Or black death! Woe i:> and tb.e immaturity of tne campu<. Johns Hopltins University to boy- . me, ,poor little me! The course of . mind. The .studen.t h_as to fish 101 ~ott all student activities wh1ch From a con1prehensive examination sys- action Prometheus what shall it knowledge m a rushmg stream 0 ' make chat·ge in addition to the :otu- be? Always a choi'ce between two mdividualism. He may catch some ll.ent activities can!. Address a.l:l busines's communications to Ar·thur J. Katzberg, Kappa Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All otb.er communications to George R. Cory, Jr., Psi Upsilon House, tem a student is brought with a bang dov.;n evils: tha·t's the only way I ever thing, but it will hald.lY be the con· * * * from his academic realms to a marldn2' sheet· have a choice put to me. Aha!. templative spirit or tne moral in I'iJne Stu.nds Still - Whether 'tis nobler in the cold to oigb.ts.\ \There shall be absolutely no Schenectady. that places him on a par with the memory suffer the slings and arrows of * * Jate:> from Monday until ]!·riday morning-mouth, or to take arm£ , en'ncr\ ec·e t ,,. t f th tl t . t h t h' • t t ' 'd Samuel Butler dro.ps one for yot.. -V 1 ...,, a 1 ' n eurc o e au 1- al' IS W 0 can repea IS IUS l'UC Ol' S 1. eas against this reeky savor, and, by a budding literati: \If a man canieL ..>rities at Manchester College has SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .. , •..••... , .• Editor-in\Chief Arthur J. Katzberg •••• , , .••. Business Manager c. William I:IunUey •. , •.•... _ . Managing Editor Robert H. Smith ... , •...••......•. News Editor Arnold J. Friedman ..•.......•... Spot·ts Editor Prince E. Oleson •..•.•.....•.... Feature Editor Morton C. Stewart. ..•..•. Circulation Managet· \Vith SUCh SUCCeSS that he can be-_ on the tooth-brush, end it. Genius again! with him a little sketch book anc. decreed. .. 1 •• * .. 1 wish my .genius would shut up. ! ~ Dean's l1'st. , hate geniuses. Especial.ly Dorothy lo continually j<;>tt~n~ do~n sketches ; Page the Weather :> k h tt 1 ttl ne has the art1st1c mstmct; a hun·· . l a:r er-t ose sno Y ' e mono- .<'lred things may hinder his due de·. College educat~on . ha.s prov.ed Jogues of her·s! What does she think velopment, but the instinct ib· largely unsucces~rul m 1ts maJor she is, Casanova's wife? Just a ena.e f I t f S''mptom of artistic decay, all this there.\ We carry such an ar·ticle· . avo,r 0 rna ung man n1:as er o \ we can't ever remember anythinE, ms envJmnmen~, 1s the .opmlon of JUNIOR BOARD .confession. Confes.sion here, con- around with us, but that's becaus~ Dr .. Levyts A. ~V1lson: -~ststal'l;t :l'f,ew ression there, all over your Aunt on naked memory. How we gape at tot.lt State Commts:sHmet of E<.lu- e.st and 0 TaSp Of the SUbject as well as mem- Minnie'~ shirt.. ~rivate ThOughts in photog·ra:phic minds like Harold J. ca.twn. ,. .• *' . :' . · . ' . . the Pnvate L1fe of M1ss Potty ~ Ol'Y, mdlVIdual thoug·ht and mcreased mtel-~ Darker. weedy, distinctly weedy! Laski or Irving Ba:bbitt. rhis Cmze for :,>pt>t•ll Comprehensive examinations should be ac- companied by a .comprehensive marking sys- tem based upon improvement, general inter- 1 't 1 ~ h h' b · Down to earth with a tb.ud. Tllud. A . eC ua scope. ~UC measureS, on t IS aSlS, LJov,d's t'·nsut·ed a man for· 20,000 * * * mertcan authors, declares Dr. J b John Ransom, professor of Engli;;h could be arl.equntely reflected by passed with 1 poun.ds against t.he consequenceb . 0 1 The Forum in the Roman Repu · J.t Vanderbilt University, Nashville, . . . phystcally maulmg h1s mother-tn- llc was the place for citizen pal tiel· rennes~ee, have brains an<.l ability C. Hathaway J. Woolman M. Berger D. Moulton SOPHOMORE BOARD J. Anderson R. No1th A. H. Stevenson V. Gllbert C. R~id.. Jr. V. Trumbull honot·, satisfactory, and unsatisfactory IS- law. This should quicken her pulse- pation in public affains; the Colos· to become gteat writers, but they d h 1 ' . f th beat: curiously the source ts fe- ;;eum of tne .l!:mpire was the plact ,vodt too fast and at too 11 h ct SUE' at t e comp et10n 0. e course. n.ale: tor citizen spectatot·ship of circus<» * * ~e 10 p::; 0 ' Issue Editor ..••• Clemens F. Hathaway which tequired no posttive activitv, Daclin~ of \'~ho 1 '-'p 1 ' •'t The thought of vou is spray J ,- ~ •\'· o \' ll J merely a thrill-hungry passivity. C · against my face, Ominous, isn't it, that our eatl) olleg1ate circles have been CONGRATULATIONS! Wind in my eyes, unmerciful $hocked by the rPport made in a and sweet town-meetings metamor.pb.osed intc recent survey made a.mong Prince- \machine:;\, machines that base t f h Th Which comes first, the raised voice their strategy on the bland fatal- on ld 1 esthmcnh. PheyB \tayK they or the getting-excited? Try con- ism of the voter. l Why should 1 1;1;K·ou thra er atve 1 tt 1 e a appa versing with a semi deaf person and strain myself about it·~ One vote cys an vm;J ~ e* Prs. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1934 The hockey team that they weren't going to recognize ended its season Saturday in a blaze of glory. For the first time in the his- tory of ice competition between the two schools, the Garnet pucksters scored a vic- tol'Y over the purple-clad ice warriors of Wil- liams College. But the fact that a vietory was scored over the Williamstown aggrega- tion is not the significant fact. What should be noted is the fact that the team went through a season that, from the point of games won and lost, was more successful than any a Union hockey team has played in many a year. And this record was aecom- plished in the face of opposition from many quarters that held an attempt at playing the sport to be useless. see how long you can keep the won't make any difference). Anu You Can J,ead a Dog to V\-'ntt>r heart-thump down. amusements! Movies, mdio-·botr. The hounds chasing Eliza over JEERING One of the most discouraging things for the men who are engaged in extm-cuniculal' activities, athletics, o1· club work of any kind is the hypocritical attitude of the student body that they must face. It is unfortunate that the efforts of many of the undergrad- uate groups serve as targets for jeers and cheap hmnor. The football team during the last season * \' * appeal to the tired mind, and ask the ice almost stopped the show at Backetball soars! Swell stuff, :,o little. America, home of looket s- the recent production of \Uncle those last two games. We enjoyed on and li;;teners-in! Tom's Cabin\ presPnted at the Uni- vetsity of Michigan. An attempt lo drag them act oss by leashes Pnd- 1 ed by having the curtain rung MUSIC by Rankine Hinman --~ I down and an, early int~r mission. From the first sentence of the Continuing tht> Good \\'orl• MIDDLESEX NOTES first editorial of Concordiensis, Feb-~ To maintain and strengthen the ruar:y I3, \There app.ears to be two bond which exists between Drexel ~efim~~ons of what .!s lu~own as a Institute and its alumni, special snap course ..... F1ee medals courses in Alumni Education have for those who send m the correct been established in the Philadelphia answers. ___ institution. * Ed Fitz pointed out that there are eight, not four shower·s work- ing, and that the occasional lack of hot water is due to absent-minded freshmen who leave showers run- ning while they visit the swimming pool or tb.e room on the other side. Here To Be RPSllE'ctable Society \must be willing to grant that it is respectable for a young man or woman to refrain from a university career,\ President Robert C. Sproul, of the University of Cali- fornia, said recently in scoring the so-called univensal sy:stem of higher education. had to play before a jeering and apologetic cheel'ing se-ction. Following its last appear- ance before the Daily Assembly, the Glee Club, in spite of its excellent perfonnance, was the subject of many unfail· jibes. And the same reaction is typical of a great many of the undergmduates, no matter what or how excellent the perf01·mance. Although we have no statistics to prove the point, 1ve suspect that a lat·ge share of the destl'Uctive criticism comes from those who take no part in activities themselves. The men \vho have been active should have learned, if nothing else, to make allowances, and that the outcome of any event is depend- ent upon almost innumerable factors. Thus the \carpet-baggers\ can be accused of being not only inert losses, but of pulling in the v.;rong direction. The season's record shows victories, in ad- dition to that over Williams, over Middlebm·y and Colg·ate. Setbacks were recorded the team by Middlebury, A11ny, and Hamilton, all by the narrow margin of one goal. An enviable record when one considers that the opposition was as strong as could be pre- sented by any small college teams in this part of the country! While listening to the strangely beautiful art songs of ancient China which Mr. Levis sang Friday ·eve- ning we thought of a fascinating article in the February issue of \Harpers\ in which Leland Hall of the Smith College Music Depart- ment introduces a music form sim- ilarly unfamiliar to us, the Scottish pibrooch. The pibrooch (pronounced pe'brockl, unlike the ancient Chin- ese art song, is, however, in no dan- ger of being lost to posterity. At the \Olympic games\ of Scotland the great artists of the bagpipe gather annually to compete for one of the most coveted of prizes, that awarded for the finest performance of these classic Scottish master- pieces to which we know nothing comparable. Here's to all the seniors who will so bravely swim through the Fac- ulty V\'omen's Teas in alphabetical turn. Shall the weather be the next topic of conversation? Someone suggPsted that while we were objecting to \Home on tb.e Range,\ why not take a sock at Bing Crosby. Of course. Bing Crosby is smelly 'cause being as his caws be craws be crawfish-in brief, fish can't sing either. Why doesn't all the dead wood g-et a-gathered, and make a fire to keep Washburn Hall warm? * * Getting Democratic \Harvard should be open to any man of unusual talents, whether he be rich or penniless, and whether he comes from Minneapolis or New Orleans,\ President J. B. Conant of Harvard announced recently, in ad- vocating a new policy for his insti- tution. -Associated Intercollegiate Press tan River, with fatal results. Seri- ous injury to several men through overexposure, indirectly the resuit That hockey team shmved a fighting spirit -a spirit that could not be denied. Declared non-entities when other hockey teams first began to see activity, the players organized themselves under the able dil·ection of l\11'. Achilles and Dr. Clark and, without a rink Lt>land Hall's Articles We consider Mr. Hall's occasional of Hell Week incidents, has led un- Take note, all the powers that be dergraduates and administration articles among the most interesting and otherwise, that seven of the again to take inventory of the in- and vividly written in \Harpers.\ eleven stage appointments were itiation period. He has contributed several travel nothing else than the \local boy The country over the tendency is makes good.\ increasing to do away witb. the essays and, in the May 1933 issue, P. w. \more dangerous\ aspects of Hell the most appealing and convincing Week, making the initiation a exposition on \The Power of Music\ II II period of strict discipline, proper that we have encountered. There In t.he M. a...... humility, and constructive work Intolerance is often considered to he an indication of ignorance, and in the light of this, the true nature of the hypoc1·itical attitude can be understood. ARE WE CONSISTENT? Dr. Ellery and The Concordiensis with their recent att::tcks on the mar'ldng systems have brought to our attention the time old debate of merit versus education or we might say merit in education as reflected in the grades handed out by various college offices tlnoughout the country. This ques- tion lies chiefly between the student and his instructor and not with the college as a whole. If the instructor aims to have a group of undergraduates striving for a high mathematical average he can easily do so by stressing the examination and marking periods rather than the fundamental aim of our college courses. Union -..vas among the leaders in this eoun- try in institutin~ the honors courses-a com- plete deviation from routine matk grabbing. If Union is to continue in its place among the foremost colleges it must realize that an- othel' change is to be brought about in edu- cational fields. This revamping of the mark* on the campus, developed themselves into a team of which Union students can rightfully be proud. The season's record speaks for itself. There is nothing more to be said than _ . about the house. Here at Rutgers are few experiences more difficult there is still strong feeling in favor to express in words than the effect !:-=============;!!·_ of some type of initiation and any \congratulations hockey tea111I\ A SIGNIFICANT HONOR The Concordiensis wishes to express its heartfelt congratulations to those nine mem- bers of the senior class who were elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa yesterday afternoon. The older of America's honorary scholastic fraternities is a most fitting tri- bute to the abilities of capable students who have studied laboriously during their under- graduate days, as is the distinction of being chosen for membership in her younger coun- terpart, Sigma Xi. Not only have these seniors excelled in their studies but they are also active in the undergraduate affairs of Union's student body. It has been repeated time and again that the underlying reason for a man going to college is to get an education and to train his mind. Election to Phi Beta Kappa re- veals the success with which these two pur- poses have been realized. of music, yet Mr. Hall writes with attempt to do away with Hell Week To the Editor itself by mandatory action would be an amazing realism and dramatic of The Concordiensis: foolish. The administration, accord- power; as we read his quest of the In cooperation with your policy ing to reports, realizes this. pibrooch we become as anxioUs to of encouraging student opinion, per- . But the houses who still find joy h h h h It · t 1 mit me a little space in your col- in the harmful physical applica- ear one as e; w en e u tma e Y tions assoct'ated wt'th the !nt'tt'att'on umn to mention a rather deplorable reaches his goal we loo feel that observation. period must come to an agreement, we have heard its b.aunting music, A great many students in chapel, informal at least, among them- an awesome sound that steals upon of late, seem 'to find that the energy selves and with the University ad- the hearer and grips him as though required to stand up when the choir ministration, to confine their activ- the surrounding mountains had and the Administration make their. ities to the more reasonable and broken their bonds and were ab- entrance, is not worth the trouble constructive. What is more impor- sorbing him in their living ubiquity. and bother. It seems to me that tant the under!.\raduate must real- this lack of respect for our pres- ize that misinterpreted facts con- Applause at the Organ Recital ident and our college, is a distinct cerning the initiations sway ill-in- . . formed but conscientious public The appeal of Russtan musrc was b-lot on out· reputation, and it cer- citizens to condemn the initiation evident in the large audience at- tainly must make a very poor im- period as \dangerous\ and then tracted to Dr. Tidmarsh's recital pression on any visitors that we add: \By the grace of God, the an- Sunday afternoon. Undoubtedly might have in our midst. To add nual period came to an end with- many were present who are not to this, those students who do not out a fatality. In the cause of familiar with the custom, as old as care for the speaker of the moi·n- health and life it ought to be in- the Chapel, of reserving applause ing, find this period the opportunity stantly banish!'d.\ Small wonder till the end of the program, save for a bull session to the annoyance tlrat the dean requests the program for groups by guest artists. We of those around them. b r 't d t h hope that this distinctive feature of e tml e 6 t e fraternity houses For the sake of the college and and immediate environs. the weekly recitals will not cease. its future, this situation should be A sane Hell Week is not an im- These gatherings are more than re- altered. 'b'l't citals·, lhey partake of the serenity possi 1 1 y; it can be obtained with- Sincerely yours, out too great a sacrifice. The ob- and intimacy of a vesper service. J·ectionable part of Hell Week is not We listen to the numbers, not so A SENIOR. th 11 h much in the more critical and for- ---Ol--- 1 e re~ Y umorous incidents and mal mood of a concert as in the c ever tdeas worl,ed out by the in- spirit of sharing in an elevating Week's Best Editorial ~~!rr~e ~ter\~it~ 1 ~ f~-b~~~en':\hiA~ musical experience, a spirit which INFORMAL INITIATION long as the possibility of extreme Is heightened by a men~ally alert Hell Week should not be abo!- physical harm exists no time should attitude but not by a n01sy expres- ished, but the Hell Week of the be lost in taking steps to outrule sion of approval. past should .be relegated to the past the abuses. If the administration We can understand the burst of v:her~ it rightfully belongs. In cori.- does not feel that it ought to talte enthusiaf'!tic applause after the ex- stdermg problems such as the in- the necessary action let the Inter- citing \1812\ Overture; we cannot, formal initiation situation one is· fraternity Council justify its exist- l;lOwever, com;prehend a desire to too prone to be easily swayed by ence by not side-stepping the issue, malte a loud noise with one's hands some startling event. Class war- and bringing ,the recalcitrants into after the exquisite Tchaikowsky E fare ended when some student was line. flf!.t Melody. careless and jumped Into tbe Rari- -THE T.ABGUM, RU'l'GE:RS \.

t r i- i- it is 1e a rs or be oy nd al- in- th- of in- ses ob- not in- As al{e ter- \. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1934 Qu . l·n: t.et t.o Fac· e A' m.herst. u ... nioBO: Overwhelms.· Select Com.:' .mitt .. ees Union Plan llelps .~ft~o \~~g;r~r~~~l~u~~ ~~~st\~;~ H }t Q C rt F G d s d which their temperament and train- F •. A . . ·T· . N .. ht · ami on· n ou ·. · · or ra ua t1on tu y of Language ~~fngo8;~~\Y£i~~~~~~t:;~~ fe~tei~ IV. e way omorrow · ·1g --- specialists in a specific division to decide. Questi0ns of vital concern Garnet Piles Up Eai\ly Lead to Nomina·tions Made for ClaBs CContinued fr·om. Page 1) to each division are threshed out in Uni9n to Joumey to Amherst To Meet Sabriila Outfit, Winnet·s of But Two Games . S ·1':' ·1 O Fa t B ff D p •t• El t' ambiguous attempts to imitate the group meetings but larger ques- purp. le Sext ·et IS .core :n.asiy ·V:er 8 li · 'ay OS! IOns; • ec IOns· graduate :>chou! or the university. tions which concern all the faculty And Blue Outfit, 40 to 18 This Morning in Assembl.v ln the field of Eng-lish, for example, and the policy of the college are d b U • it allows the teachers to continue left for the rare meetings of the Trounce.· .. Y .. ·DIOD ---- with old and tried method,; and at faculty as a whole. The Plan takes Never threatened throughout the. the same time encourages them to into account the great truth that a .Senior Class appointments for. try new experiments. college cannot be governed by a de- game, the Garnet hoopsters had Commencement committees were· (!Ill The natural division of the: bating society which the old time In 11n attempt to prevent the Lit- Union Closes Season Playing little difficulty in downing Hamil· ·announced yesterday .by William whole curriculum into four parts faculty meetings had become. For Ue Three from scoring a clean F' t G f v ·ton, 40 .to 18, Saturday night in the Gordon Neese, vice-president of the being about a cluo:;er I·elationship. fair-minded and judicious decisions Its 1nes arne 0 J. ear; senior class. The Cap and Gown between teacher,; whose aims are about fields of study, the division sweep in basketball, the Union Williams Completely at Bay . Alumni gymnasium. Joe Milano and <.:ommintee will be composed of c. either similar or identical. In the· meeting and the Executive Com- quintet wili journey to Amherst to- Puree Dow pierced the Buff and William Huntley, chait·man, a mem- true spirit of cooperation, they are. mit tee as a court of appeals thus morrow in high hopes for a victory --- Blue five-men defense almost at will bcr of 'l'heta Delta Chi' Fr·aternity encour-aged to do their work along· offer an almost utopian remedy for · and Managing l!;ditor of The Con- pa:rallel paths to a comm0n goal. an 0ld difficulty. In this respect over a relatively weak Sabrina Playing its finest game of the Ill the first haJf, the rest pe1•iod cordiensis, Bd.ward T. Barna, Phi for the benefit of their students. · the Plan has the advantage of wise- team. The Amherst five has had a· year, the Garnet lwcltey team leaving the home team on the long. Delta Theta, Purcell E. Dow, Sigma Iy following recent trends in gov- rather unsuccessful campaign this dosed its season Saturday ai Wi.J- end of a 22 to 9 score. Chi and Cl\optain of the Varsity .tSas- Teacht>rs Rtate Aim of Work ernment the world over. It depends, . t liamstown by trouncing the Purple ketball team, Herbert Haus:>er, <IV> From the point of view of of course, on the wisdom and im- year, losing SIX out of eigh games. sextet of WHliams Uollege by a On a series of dribble-in shots the leader of the Glee l:lub, and Wil,. the Division of Language and Liter-. partiality of the highest governing Saturday night the Lord J-effs. score of 5 to 1. This was the first Union five rolled up twelve points· !iam Prest, Delta Phi and manager ature the Plan offers this great ad- body as indeed do all systems of dropped an easy game to ·wesleyan time thM Union has .ever succeeded: before the visitors broke into the of varsRy basketball. vantage: its teachers have been en- government. The enei'gies of the at Middletown, 31 to 10. Earlier in in defeating Williams on the ice. s.coring column on a foul shot by courag'ed to state the aim of their. teaching staff are thereby fostered, the season they had defeated the Fine team work by Union was re- B1>b l::lhinn, sophomore forward. 'T'he Class Day comm·ittee will wor·k, namely, to acquaint the stu- conser•ved and concentrated on Connecticut outfit, 25 to 20 at Am- sponsible for the victm·y. Captain .!:!]Ieven minutes passed before the consist of Robert H. Smith, chair- dent with the great types of litera-· their ·own high calling of providing heist. The Amherst season opened Bay Hutton and Willis Jenkins Clintonians tallied their .first field man, a member of Delta Upsilon ture which express ancient ·and an education for the student. with a victroy over ·Clark Univer- were the ·big guns on the Garnet basket, a short shot by Bill Weld,. Fraternity and News Editor of the modern civilization and which have sity, 26 to 23, after which followed offense while Austin Fox and Bus leadmg point-getter ot the Conti-. Concordiensis, c. William Bennett, enabled many liberal art~ students RAYMOND M. HERRICK, a !.!4 to 26 loss to Trinity. Then Williams paired on the defense line, ;lentals. Beta Theta Pi, Dean Roylance, Jr., in the .past to participate more fully Professor of English Wesleyan was beaten for the Sa- holding the Purple ·completely at Five !Ian Defense Sigma Phi. in the fine adventure of living and brina's second win. Since then con- bay. During the entire tirst period thinking. This statement would O•-~- tests have been lost to Massachu- the Williams sextet was unable to · Because of the type of defense Members of the program and in- sound like an airy notion of impos- Governmeat C hi Of setts State twice, 13 to 38, and 28 to get a shot at the Union goal. used by the Hamilton team, the· vi-tation commHtee are Boris Rado- sible perfection if the members of apa e 27; Springfield, 33 to 26; Williams, Four of the five GGlimet scores play in the first half tended to be yevich, Beta Theta Pi, chainnan, the division were not of the opinion Performing Many Jobs 34 to 26; and Saturday night's game were r:egistered on solo dashes slow. The visitors, when on the Douglas V. Smith, Alpha Delta Phi, that this high goal is to be arrived to Wesleyan. Union has lost to down the !'ink Jenkins scored defensive, would station themselves James Horan, Theta Delta Chi, at first by the mastery of funda- Wesleyan, 39 to 29, and to Williams twice, whHe Bergmann, Wiiliam::;, just beyond the foul line, content manager of the Glee Club, Henry mental subjects such as grammar S3 to '25. and Hutton each contributed one to let the Garnet force the game. W. Tulloch, and Sidney Markman. and pronunciation as well as crea- mar·ker. Late i·n the period they abandoned Th b tive writing and reading. Before Tunwr High Srni'f.'l' thP tive-man defense and followed e anquet committee will con- the student can acquit·e ::;ound opin- The summary follows: Union':> example in playing- man to sist of Karl D. Williams, chairman, ions he must first have a knowledge Turner, diminutive forward, has been high scorer, although in the last two games he has been alter- nating with Green. Co-captain l<'usco also figure,; prominently in the scoring as doe:> MosE>s at guard. Keesey, the center, averages about seven points a game. Co-captain Marriott, although not much of a scorer, is a dependa.ble guard. man. a member of the Chi Psi fraternity, and a sutTicil\nt background of the I' UNION WILLIAMS Carl Johnson, Phi Gamma Delta, great Ianguao-es and literature:> G W 1 dd Coach Nels Nitchman began f ·t · 11 ,., a thers .......... Sto ard sending in his reserves in the sec- manager o varsr y footba , and that he is studying. Neither the LD Fox .................... Lislt> d h If' 1 th t f James Corbin, Sigma Phi. college nor the division can affurd RD W . r on a . n e rna ter o scoring II Jams · · · · · · · · · · · · · Rogers there was a repetition of the first The Class Song will be written by to turn loose on the world more C Jenkins . . . . . . . . . . . Williams period with Milano and Waldr·on Pa 1 W d f d't f Th bigotry and dogmatism, qualities Lw Hutton Jones u assmans or ' e I or o e wht'ch or·1·g1'nate fr·orn pr·eJ'udi'ces RW Summer:h~y· ~~· ·. ·.·. ·. ·. ·.·.·.·Bacon maintaining the ma.rgin of lead. Idol. formed in youth from insufficient Union's play around the basket was N · t' Goals -Jenl{t'ns, 2·, Ber·gmann, · 11 ff . omma Ions were made for Class knowledge and background. The . espeCia · y e ectrve, Semerad -and D d M · u D · Williams, Hutton, Rogers. Spat\es~- Milano teaming up on a couple of ady ahn t~vmg- P ay posttions, Plan is sound because it encour- un ion ·. Flor·a, Co1 bt'n, 'Var·ner, Hue- tt · 1 w ld an t e mo ron was made that elec- ages a mastery of the \tool:>\ which , pt·e y scormg p ays. e , a slight- t' f th ff' sted. Williams: Sherman, Eg-bert, Jy built shifty center, was the Itey r!,o'f}- 1 s Aor ese o Ices be held in enable the student to open for him- Griffin, Uoher, Jackson, Noble, man of the Hamilton attack. mY ssembly this morning. The self the great treasury of language. Sprague. Referee-- Bolster. Time nominations were made as follows: Then in his last two years he is of pel'iods -20 minutes. The summary follo~s: Class Marshal- Flinn; Pipe Orator taughrt to discover the contributions UNION -Markman, Judge, Angus Brown, to civilization as offered by the ·---o C 4 0l FG FP l'ts. Heffernan; Ivy Orator-Draper, great ancient and modern liter- McDowell, rf .......... 0 3 3 Crawley, Robert Smith, Silber- atures. Coach Nels Nitchman will prob- ably start the same combina-tion which faced Hamilton Saturday night, with Joe Milano and Ray McDowell at forward, Van Waldron at center, Jack Moffett and Puree Dow at guard. Semerad may start in either a forward or guard berth. Fencers Drop Meet Garnet Swimmers To Hamilton, 14 to 3 Jackson, rf ............ 0 0 0 kraus; Class Prophet- Maney, Ben- Milano, If, rf .......... 6 0 12 nett, Parker, Gallant, Roberts, Long, Semerad, lf, rg . . . . . . . . 1 0 2 Keeper of the Jug-Oppenheim, Gain, If · · · .. · ..... ·. . . 0 0 0 Huested, Acheson, DeGesero, Cor- Cioffi, If .............. 0 0 0 bin, Sullivan, Barna, and Hutton. ~~--o---- Elimination of Strife on Faculty <V> By diminishing the number of times the faculty meets as a whole, the Plan eliminates an ele- ment of strife and bitter feeling. Divisions, after thoughtful discus- sion among their members, may recommend to an impartial and judicious executive committee what- ever changes they believe will im- Lose to R.P J., 53-a 18 Morrison Scores in Two Bouts While Zubres Registers Win In Foils for Union Tallies Waldron, c ............ 3 1 7 Alouette Singers-Hor·an, Cortesi, Smith, c · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 · 0 Corbin, Acheson, Hutton, Sullivan, Dow, rg · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 3 2 8 Rockwell, and DeMatteo. The re- Rotunda, rg · · · · · · · · · · · 0 1 1 sults will be announced in Friday's Moffett, lg · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2 1 5 issue of the Concordiensis, Priznar, ig ............ 1 0 2 Total ............... 16 8 40 \Would you like to obtain a posi- tion with the government?\ asked former Professor Harold R. Enslow in Daily Assembly Saturday morn- ing. The exams which will be given March 17th test one's ability in var- ious fields. One may become a dredge operator, a game farm fore- man, a motorboat operator, or a cabinet maker. Contrary to public opinion, the government is capable of perform- ing many jobs in as efficient a man- ner as private individuals are. One can trace the fosterage of a child, the education of a youth, the busi- ness and pleasure of a man, and the care and burial of the aged as attributed to the state or federal government. In New Zealand the government will lend money for building houses and will also lend aid in the planning of them. Politics are not necessary in order to obtain a position in the civil service. Naturally politics will be an asset, but the primary basis of selection is merit. Recently, Mr. James Finnegan, '02, received the distinction of being appointed head of the Civil Service Bureau in New York City government by Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia. Schuman Scores Lone First Place for Union in Diving; Adrian Equals Pool Record Union's swimmers went down to a 53 to 18 defeat Saturday after- noon, when they encountered their traditional rivals from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute at Troy. The Engineers won all but one event with Captain Adrian of R. P. I. winning the 50-yard and 100-yard free style events and swimming anchor man on the winning relay team. His time of 25 seconds in the 50-yard free style equalled the pool record for that distance. Unable to compete with the thrusts of the Ianlty, experienced Hamilton College fencers Saturday, the U11.ion fencing team dropped its second match to the Buff and Blue at Clinton, 14 to 3, Four of the bouts won by Hamilton were by one point. HAMILTON (18) FG FP Pts. Shinn, rf ........... , . . 0 1 1 White, rf .............. 0 1 1 Crego, rf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Milham, rf . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Short Selling Beneficial For Condition of Prices \WHEN A FELLER Diving honors were again an- nexed by \Boom\ Schuman by vir- tue of the 69.343 points he garnered. This runs his record to six first places in seven meets. Bob Oppen- heim, ace distance swimmer of the Garnet team, swam one of his best races this year. In both the 220 and 440-yard free style events he was beaten only by inches after closing up on his men in the last laps, The summaries: 220-yard free style-Won by David- :oon, R. P. I.; second, Oppenheim, Union; third, Redfern, R. P. I. Time-2:33.1. 50-yard free style-Won by Max- well, R. P. I.; second, Wunnen- burg, R. P. I.; third, Griffing, Union. Time-0:25.0. Diving-Won by Schuman, Union; second, Henry, R. P. I.; third, Keens, Union. vVhmer's points- 69.343. 440-yard free style-Won by Thomp- son, R. P. I.; second, Oppenheim, Union; third, Dugan, R. P. I. Time-5:48.8. 150-yard back stroke - Won .by Mochen, R. P. I.; second, Neese, Union; third, Sanborn, R. P. I. Time-1:55.9. 200-yard breast stroke-Won by Dailey, R. P. I.; second, Smith, R. P. I.; third, Argersinger, Union. Time-2:43.2. 100-yard free style-Won by Max- well, R. P. I.; second, Wunnen- berg, R. P. I.; third, Griswold, Union. Tim e-O :55.3. 400-yard relay-Won by R. P. I. <Davidson, Geise, Redfern, and Maxwell.) Time-3:53.3. ---0--- DEAN'S I.JST ADDITIONS Dean Charles F. F. Garis an- nounced this morning that the fol- lowing students had been added to the Dean's List as published in The Concordiensis two weeks ago: 1936: AB, Milton Kohn. 1937: AB, Paul Campbell, Franklyn F. Converse, and Robert J. Rosenthal. 1937: CEJ, Harold F. Millham. The Garnet was able to score in two foil bouts and one sabre event, Mert Zubres winning one foil and Captain AI Morrison the other two. Only five men represented Union, while Hamilton had nine swords- men, putting fresh men in different bouts. Only recently Hamilton scored over the highly-touted Cor- nell men, 12 to 5. Morrison's foil victory was scored at the expense of Elihu Root, 3rd, 5 to 2, while Zubres won from Dale, 5 to 4. The sabre victory was won by Morrison from Johnson. The summary follows: Foils - ;Ballard CH) defeated Champ \Ul, 5 to 0. Ballard defeat- ed Slobod <Ul, 5 to 2. Dates <Hl defeated Zubres (U), 5 to 4. Morri- son <U>, defeated Root <Hl, 5 to 2. Montrose (H) defeated Slobod, 5 to 3. Montrose defeated Zubres, 5 to 2. Dale <Hl defeated Champ, 5 to 2. Dale defeated Slobod, 5 to 4. Zubres defeated Dale, 5 to 4. Total -Hamilton 7, Union 2. Epee-Scanlon <Hl defeated Mor- rison, 2 to 0. Scanlon defeated Zubrcs, 2 to 1. Bremer \H) de- feated Morrison, 2 to 0. Bremer defeated Zubres, 2 to 1. Total- Hamilton 4, Union 0. Sabre-Scanlon defeated Roger <U>, 5 to 1. Scanlon defeated Mor- rison, 5 to 1. Embler \HJ defeated Rogers, 5 to 3. Morrison defeated Johnson <H>, 5 to 4. Total-Ham- ilton 3, Union 1. 'fotal of meet-Hamilton 14, Union 3. Judge-Kohl, Army. ---o Chess Team Held to Draw By Tyros in Friday Night Match The chess team was held to a draw by the Tyros in a match play- ed Friday evening at the Y. M. C. A. Sam Simon, '34 defeated Duncan while Richard Kelsey, '37 won from Sweeney. Richard. Passenger, '37 lost to Berry, and Charles Hinckley, '36 played A. B. Brown to a draw. The fifth game was forfeited by Union, making the final score 2 1-2 to 2 1-2. The Tyros have held se- cond place in the Schenectady Chess League Tournament for some time and the c_ollege team hopes to se- cure a wm when a return match is I?layed in the near future, This entire tournament is to be com- pleted by next month· the team will probab-ly get a place near the top in the final rating. Connor, rf ............. 0 0 0 Snyder, If ............. 1 2 4 Weld, c ....... •oo ..... 3 1 7 Burke, rg ...... 00 ..... 1 1 3 Jones, lg ....... 00 ..... 1 0 2 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 6 18 Score at half tim.e-Union 22 Hamilton 9. Fouls Committed~ Union 12, Hamilton 18. Fouls miss- ed-Union 11, Hamilton 8. Com- mitted four personal fouls-Snyder. Referee-Dowling of Albany. Time of periods-20 minutes. iir=;·~·;;:,:·:;:·t=;:=:~:;=~:=;i'miil j~~ Leagues li! \l:~mmmm:mmmmmm::m::m:mm::m:m:m::m~ Results Phi Sigma Kappa 11, Delta Upsilon 9. Neutrals 41, Alpha Phi Delta 29 .. Phi pelta Theta 2, Delta Pi Nu 0. CForfeJt.) Beta Theta Pi 41, Alpha Delta Phi 16. Psi Upsilon 41, Lambda Chi Alpha 19. Theta Nu Epsilon 31, Kappa Alpha 24. Standings (Second llaJ.f) AMERICAN LEAGUE (Continued from Page 1) to buy securities. The decline in security prices is not dUe to short selling, but is· due to unsatisfactory business conditions and to the iiquidation of securities• owned out- right or held on margin. \Bear Raiding\ The public of.ten links short sell- ing and \·bear raiding\ together. If a person sells stock not because he believes the stock is too .high, but because he 1believes that by selling quickly and in great volume he can force the price to decline, he is abus'ing the legitimate practice of short selling. The New York Stock Exchange has always .been opposed to bear raiding, Its eonstitution specifically provides that any mem- ber who sells securities for the pur- pose of demoralizing the market may be suspended or ex.pelled. .Statistics of the New York Stock Exchange show that even through the worst years of this depression the average short seller was short less than 300 ebares and their deal- ings amounted to less than 5% of the total volume of sales per day. History repeatedly gives evidence of the effect of bans on short sell- ing which results in a real danger of technical -corn!lrS and <Jf crazy and d:angerous .price advances thus creating an unnatural and danger· ous market. w Phi Delta Theta ...... , , •.. 3 The sound relation between spec- ulation for declining pl.\ices and speculation for ad'Vanc!n;g prices will only come ~bout if the,law of supply and dem•and is permitted to work f.reely and naturally-. If we attempt to Interfere and to impose artificial restrictions upon either L the purchaser or sell'er of securities, o we are bound to create an abnormal· Phi Gamma Delta , ..... , •. , 2 Beta Theta Pi ........•. , • , • 2 Theta Nu Epsilon . . . . . . . • . . 2 Phi Sigma Delta .. 00 •• 00 •• , 1 Kappa Alpha .......... , . . . 1 Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . • . . 1 Delta Pi Nu ...... 00 ...... 00 o NATIONAL LEAGUE Neutrals .. 00 .......... 00 ••• 4 Delta Upsilon .............. 3 Alpha Phi Delta ..... _ ..... 2 Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . . . 2 Psi Upsilon .......•. , ...... 2 Sigma Chi .....•..•..•..... 1 Lambda Chi Alpha .......•• 1 Delta Phi ....... , . . . . • . . . . . 1 Kappa Nu .....•........... 0 and unnatural market which will 0 ultimately bring about worse evils 1 than those we seek to cure. 1 2 3 3 2 SHOE REPAIRING R.UBBER HEELS-39e Any Make HALF SOLES-79c FULL SOLES and HE:ELS $2.25 Work done while you wait. Free delivery service. Bring this add with you and get a free shine with eaeh job. Phone 4-7711 THE WALLACE CO. -Basement. NEEDS A FRIEND\ When you're handed the raspberry be- s~) fore your honey . . • puff away your, ( . ~rouch with genial BRIGGS. Its sa- ~)V . b (~ ) vory pnme to accos ~re tempered and t~ seasoned for years m the wood, 'til · · · they're mellow and mild and minus all bite . • • The truly biteless blend ••• the friend a feller needs. KEPT FACTORY FRESH by inner lining of CELLOPHANE 0 P. Lorillord Co., Inc. \C'mout Sometime\ AND SEE OUR MODEL DAIRY FARM AT DUANESBURG PINE GROVE DAIRY TELEPHONE 4 .. 7741 WE CORDIALLY INVITE OUR CUSTOMERS AND THEIR FRIENDS TO DRIVE OUT AND SEE OUR FARM WHERE WE PRODUCE OUR 0\VN GRADE 'A' MILK

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1934 'iJ'Test.e ..... n 71/T.ust\c 71/lay Resem·ble Ln ,.,'he I nese system Mr. Levis reve.aled !J.is rr 4 I ' lJ'.l.i 1U'4 . . .I.. J talent as both scholar and artist. This musical reconstruction he D. t . 714'. . • 711. . • f crz. . based upon his translation and r U UTe J.uaCTOCOSmlC 1r.1.USlC 0 nllla study of rare documents which dis- closed to him the nature, form, and structure of the \forgotten art\ .John Hazedel Levis, appearing on the Lchabod Spencer lecture series, told a large audience in Memorial Chapel Friday evening that the microcosmic music of the West may in the future resemble the Oriental, roacrocosmic music of China, that as our hemisphere learns to regard Life more as a whole than in its parts our com- posers will reflect this broader atti- tude which is characteristic of Chi- nese philosophy and music. Mr. Levis augmented his lecture with several groups of piano and vocal selections and numbers play~d on Chinese instruments. The speaker cited the NRA as an instance in which the West is using a broader, typically Chinese ap- proach to its problems. Unfortu- nately he could not enlarge upon this view because of the wfde scope of his lecture. All Chinese music, Mr. Levis explained, is dependent upon either Confucianism with its strict conformance to rules or upon the much freer Taoism; he con- fined himself to the former, more prevalent music. Mr. Levis indicated that one re- striction upon the composer of Chi- nese vocal music is the musical na- ture of the language, which, being monosyllabic, depends upon varia- tions of intonation for its meaning. Each vocable may be \sung\ on a high pitch level, a low level, with rising pitch, or with falling pitch, and in each case wi:ll have an en- tirely different meaning. One word may be so variously rendered as to have over one hundred fifty mean- ings. Mr. Levis's study of this language was evident in his own speech, which was distinctly musi- cal. Of the numbers which Mr. Levis performed we enjoyed most the an- cient art songs, strangely beautiful, attractive not for any particular portion but for their general ex- otically sensuous, eloquent effect. His voice was remarkably control- led, especially in the difficult porta- mentes with which the music fre- quently faded into nothing. In \Alone with Ching Mountain,\ a pianoforte composition of his own based upon the ancient Chi- which he is endeavoring to re- establish in China, where music has languished for several hundred years. The program also Included sev- era:l numbers on native instru- ments, the demurely tinkling Chi- nese dulcimer, the raucils Chinese two-stringed violin, and the strin- gent Chinese flute. The audience apparently enjoyed most Mr. Levis's impressionist pieces written. more in our own style, and in .the native street songs. -~-o--- Alumni Monthly Prints Data On Lc:>cal Students The Alumni Monthly r,ecently published the results of an investi- gation b:y an alumni seer etary con- cerning local men in the college. The .stud·ent<~ were divided into thiee groups: those living in 'Sche· nectady and Scotia; those commu- ting from nearby towns; and those whose homes were so far away that grave by the Nott Memorial which monies of exhuming the Trustees' a they had to 'live on the campus. was again under constru~tion. ·great display of fireworks was set Last year's Garnet was then con- 0 h d d h tl f' f'l d off, and then the bones of the sleep- SUited and I ·t wa·s found· t·ha:t O·f t·he . ne un re g as Y Igures I e T t f out of the campus at ten o'clock the ing rus ees were dug up rom fi.rst group, among the seniors, '55% evening O·f October 20, 1871. The \Potter's\ field. took part in student activities, ·of procession was lead by the Grand· ---o--- the second group 54% participated, Marshal, Alexis ·C. Smi.th, '73, 1 and of the last group 83% took t d f' h' d Wi liam Dil\.e Reed, '98, part. In the Junior class figures m·O·Un e upon a Iery w Ite stee · for the groups gave 63'%, 54% and He was followed by King's Full '1.1o Addl·ess union Alumni 77%, respectively. Cornet Band he·aded ,by a snappy 7< Drum Major. Next in line caine' ---o ~tudents holding high banners be!Lr- · (Special to The Concordiensis) Students Robbed'Potter's:~ mg such mottoe~ 13;~: \Resurrection Brooklyn, Feb. 2Q-William Dike . of Our Trustees , . T/;ey .. Were :r:rot.:Reed, '98, will address the Union Field; Exhumed T ru.stees Dead, but Sleepi:ng ' In Umon College Club of Brooklyn Law The hearts of the Un·ion under- graduates softened in 1869, Dr. lra Harris had been appointed actil1Jg president. During his term the dtoc-. tor deliveved a c<lurse of lectures on Constitutional law. In '69 Rev. Charles Aiken. was ap.pointed presi- dent and was followed two. years later by Dr. Ellphalet Nott Potter. Potter was a man of pluck and nerve. 1n his administration Union shook off the burdens ef financial difficulties. The college began to pick up, the sleeping alumni and trustees began .to shake off the shackles of slumbers. The students rejoiced. The time had come to re- surrect the Trustees from their T~ere , Is Yet ~trength\ \T~~ Schoo>] tomorrow night in the Cal- KNotty Problem IS Now Solv~d > lege ·Club Room, Richardson Hall. a~d fo~. the more ·~atheroatlcal, Thomas P. Finegan, '33, will be in- rn;~ded X square plus 2 PX eqD;als ducted into membership, the fourth Q. In the ·cente~ of the I?rocess~on of Union's June graduates to join ca;me a hewrse with a coffm. A sign the club. on the he.arse decla;red that the cof-. Mr. Reed's early career was de- fm cont:Uned the first stone for ~he. voted to journalism, but he swerved co~pletion ~f the Nott Memorial, to the legal field through the in- which was mtended ~ a chapel. fluence of a friend He was for- Other marshals carrymg red Ian- . · . terns followed th he se t~nate enough to ~ecome assoCiated . . e ar · . Wlth the late William Travers Jer- After paradmg about the streets orne, former District Attorn.ey .of of Dorp the cortege returned to the New York City, and the most dy- campus where, before a large crowd namic of the Tiger baiters. of townspeople, they marc_he,d Mr. Reed's practice is unusual in around .and around _the memonal s that it resembles that of the Env- fou~clahons1 ·blft unlike the w~ns of !ish barrister, with the majority of Jencho, Umon s stone work dtd not his cases coming from other lawyeis collapse. who are seeking a good trial law- Before the boys began the cere- yer for their clients. the toOacco doet not ~tl! out Every Lucky Strike is made from the finest tobacco and only the center leaves. Not the top leaves- because those are under-developed -not ripe. They would give a harsh smoke. Not the bottom leaves-be- cause those are inferior in quality. They grow close to the ground, and are tough, coarse and always sandy. The center leaves are the mildest leaves, for which farmers are paid higher prices. Only these center leaves are used in making Luckies the fully packed cigarette -so round, so firm- free from loose ends. That's why Luckies draw easily, burn evenly. And remember-\lt's toasted\ -for throat protection- for finer taste. Direct from the Metropolitan Opera House Saturday at 1 45 1.'. M., Eastern Standard Time, over Red and Blue Networks ofNBC, Lucky Strike presents the Metropolitan Opera Company of New York in the com- plete Opera, Tannhan~rr. ~the top leaves-the:v'reunderodeveloped -they are harsh! and only the Center Leaves Cream of the Crop \The mildest, smoothest tobacco\ Always the Finest Tobacco copyrlght.l934, 'l'he American Tobn.ceo Company. NOT the hottom leaves-they're inferior itr quality-coarse and always sand.v! J ' ... ··~'

Judge, Crowley, Roberts, Aehe- son, Horan, Rock- well, Elected Class Day Offic~rs I I . 11 • , l..J:...,'j,J{::\1· ,(! , ( ~ Columbia Pro- fessor to be In- augurated as Pl'esident at Commencement f.n June Vol. LVII., Ne. 37 UNION COLLEGE, SCHEI\TECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS Dixon Fox Chosen Fe~eral Res~rve Dr. Ellery To Relinquish Fa!ls to ~ch~eve Acting-Presidency In June Chief ·ObJ ect1ves System Cannot Aid Revival; Theory of Stabilization by Loan .Manipulation Falls Noble Experiment Dies Inability to Expand Credit Is One Aspect of Problem By HENRY W. TULLOCH -------------~•'· Resigns· Position Trustees Gt·ant Request for Relief from Executive Post;· To Return to Chemistry, Has Reorganized College Union Plan and Liberalized Chapel Services Among His Administration C h an g e s Dr. Edward Ellery, who has been Acting- Presid'ent of the college since April, 1933, asked. at a special ' meeting of the board of trustees Wednesday that he be relieved of his duties as chief executive of the college at the C<lnclusion of thic,: college year. Named Prexy DR. DIXON RYAN FOX Dr. Wold Favors Curricular Changes President <$ 1 Columbia Professor of History Will Assume DutiesAfterCommencement Will Appear on Campus March 2, as Ichabod Spence1· Lecturer; Dr. Ellery to Continue as Acting- President Until Fox's Inauguration Dr. Dixon !1yan Fox, professor of History at Columbia Unive1·sity, distinguished schola1·, and author, was elected president of l'nion College and chancellor of Union Univel'- sity at a special meeting of tht' board of trustees in New York city yesterday. --- ---- - -- ~ ~ Dr. Fox will become the twelfth E d • t • I R t d president of the college, succeed- ! 0 r I a s a e . ing Dr. Frank Parker Day who re- H . hi b s • signed because of ill health last Ig . y y eniors August. Dr. Edward Ellery, act- 1 Q t • • ing president since April, will con- n Ues I 0 n ll a l r e tinue his duties until the inaugura- --- tion of the new president after the Placed Thit·d After Ordinary C'ollege News and Intercol- legiate Sports in Value commencement exercises in. June. The president-elect's first offici<W appearance at the college will be March 2 when he will deliver the final lecture of the year under the Ichabod Spencer Foundation. Dr. Offer Many Suggestions Fox plans to move into the pres- The recent address of Mr. Jesse H. Jones, chairman of the Recon- struction Finance Corporation, be- fore the New York State Bankers Association has again raised the question of whether the banking system is going to expand its loans to industry, agriculture, and com- merce. The Federal Reserve Sys- tem conducted an intensive open market campaign last year in which it succeeded in raising the reserves of member banks more than $900,000,000 above legal re- quirements. However, the report- ing member banks in 90 leading cities actually decreased their loans $83,000,000 between May and De- cember. And to-day, after six months of recovery, these mem- ber banks are lending less than they were lending a year ago. That the situation has aroused the ad- ministration was reflected in the words of Mr. Jones, when he said that \if the banker fails to grasp his opportunity and to meet his re- sponsibility,\ government lending is the alternative. DR. EDWARD ELLERY Having completed the major work of reorganizing the college un- der the newly ad!optect \UT)ion C<li- Iege Plan for the Intellectual Ad~ vancement of Youth\ Dr. Ellery ex- pressed the desire to resume his teaching of chemistry and his post as head of that department which ________________ : he gave up last April when he was· Second Issue of Idol Appears on Campus made Acting President during the illness of President Frank Parker Day. Predicts Higher Intellectual Student Interest and Effm·t Under New ·!-Course Plan foncol'diensis to Consider and Act On Ideas Submitted Many t>Urprising facts, together with wor-thwhile suggestions and humorous comments, were obtained from The Concordiensis Question- naire whicll was presented in chapel Wednesday to over 500 stu- d(·nts. Although four members of the staff have been working stead- ily cor_npiling tabulationt>, only the statistics from the senior class a1 e t eady for J:~Ub!ication; a summary of thP rPactwns of the uther classes will be .published later. ident's house with hls family about June 1, after alterations now under way have been completed. Has Degree from Union A scholar, writer, and editor of distinction, Dr. Fox was honored for his research work in American history when Union College con- ferred on him the .degree of Doctor of Humane Letters in 1931. Many explanations have been. offered for the failure of the banks to expand credit. The bankers have contended that the depression has resulted in making first-class com- mercial paper very scarce. Mr. W. Randolph Burgess, deputy governor of the New York Reserve Bank, presents the bankers' argument. In carrying out an emergency act passed in 1932 in which Reserve Banks were allowed to lend directly to applicantf:' for credit, he stated: Sullivan and Tuck Contribute Short Stories; Tripp Writes Essay on Economic Problem Featuring short sto1ies by John King Sullivan and Gilbert W. Tuck, '34, and an economic essay by L. Reed Tripp, '32t, the second issue of the Idol, the c<ll!ege literary quar- terly, appeared on the campus yes- terday afternoon. \We People of the Valley\ is the title of Tuck's true story; it is a fantastic tale of the journey of a man and a woman from the valley in which they live into the moun- tain heights above tihem. The story is ;pure symbolism. Sullivan has written a story called \The Sweet Old Thing,\ the story of a platonic J.ove of a youth and a girl and the events that befell them at and aft- er a .fraternity dance. Tuck's work has been illustrated by a full page !black-and-white sketch drawn by Sidney David Markman, '34. \From the middle of 1932 to the end of 1933 we received 1,286 appli- cations for loans .... After a thor- ough investigation we decided we could properly run the risk of mak- ing loans to fourteen borrowers. ... In our endeavor to make every loan possible, we made loans to two concerns which have since gone into receivership.\ Failure to Expand Credit This statement is very enlighten- ing. A prolong-ed business depres- sion increases the risk inherent in <Continued on Page 4) ---0•---- Seniors Elect Officers Fm· Class Day Exe1·cises John R. Judge, Thomas Crowley, John P. Roberts·, Thomas Acheson, James Horan and Norman Rock- well were elected Class Day offi· cers of the senior class in the vote taken this morning at Daily As- sembly. Judge, a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity, was ch<lsen as Pipe Orator, while Crowley, of Del- ta Chi will be the Ivy Orator. Rob- erts, a neutral, was named Class Prophet. Acheson, affiliated with Alpha Delta Phi fraternity, will be the Keeper of the Jug. Horan, Theta Delita Chi, and Rockwell, Delta Phi, were ohosen to lead the singing of the allouette songs about the members of their class. Dr. Edward Ellery to Speak On \Science and !Religion\ Dr. Edward Ellery will speak on the t.opic of \Science and Religion\ Wednesday evening at 8 <l'clock in the Old Chapel. Dr. Ellery is the thit·d speaker in a series '()f five f<lrums sponsored ·by the Union Col- lege Christian Association. Dr. John March talked on \The Evolution of Religion\ at the last forum rut which there were over bwo hund!red students. Dr. Ellery will continue with the development of religion as compared to that ·of science. \The Sig·nificance of Labor's New Era\ is the title <lf Tripp's feature essay. In a thoughtful r.nd wel·l worked! out manner it discusses the N. R. A. and the American Feder- ation of Labor and their relation to each other. In \There We Go, Gentlemen,\ Leslie R. Long, '34, dis- cusses dishonesty among college students. The third essay has been written by Paul Wassmansdorf, '34, editor of the Idol. In \One Only Evil\ he takes UIP the question of popular intelligence in the modern WO<rld and its relation to the newly- created leisure class. <Continued on Page 4) Student Council Favors Line Coach for Football Al a meeting of the Student Council Wednesday night a motion made b~r Austin Fox '35, captain of football last year, that the Council rec-ommend to the Athletic Board that they instruct the Athletic De- partment to obtain a line c·oach for football next year was carried aft- er some discussion and the secre- tary was instructed to notify the· Athletic Board ·of the recommenda- tion. The suggestion was made that the Garnet, now ·issued by the jun~ lor class, be changed to a senior q:mbl<ication !but a motion <by Fox: that the Garnet continue as a jun- ior publication was unanimously carried. The council voted five dol- lars to cover the cost of the flow- ers sent ·by the Freshman ·Class to the funeral of Hunter Birkhead '37 recently deceased. A recommenda- Uon was made to the Publications B<lard! that the handbook be pub- lished for the Freshman Class only, nex:t year. Interest in Undergi\B.duates When asked f<Or a statement con- cerning his resignation as Acting- President, Dr. Ellery indicated in a ·brief me;;sage to the student body yesterday that his chief interest is in the student body of the college. Dr. Ellery said: \The undergradu- ate can ·count on me absolutely to further his advance, whatever the posLtion I occupy in the organiza- tion.\ In granting Dr. Ellery's request the trustees ordered the followin·g resolution engrossed and sent to him \as an eJQpression of the affec- tiona.te regard of students, alumni, faculty, and trustees of Union Col- lege.\ Resolution Sent to Dr. Ellery \Dr. Ellery is a strong, efficient teacher, beloved of his students and respooted by his associates. As Act- ing President, he has given to the college faithful, loyal, generous service. He has had a faculty unit- ed, tlne proud to f·ollow his leader· ship, while the spirit of the student body has never been finer. '\''he trustees record their grate- ful appreciati·on of <WI that Dr. El- lery has been and has d'one for Union College. They tender to him their siucereet thanks and trust that he may •be spared in health and strength to continue giving so generously and so faithfully of his service and his uplifting ififl\.timce.\ Hiram C. To~d. an <Wumnus and trustee of the college who made the official announcement for the trustees, declared that Dr. Ellery will become chairman of the facul- ty after the new president has been in<ructed into office. During his term as Acting Presi- dent, Dr. Ellery devoted most of his energies to t:he reorganization of the C'Ollege under the new Union plan. The .plan was adopted follow- ing a year's survey of the educa- tional practices of colleges in the United States and the ex,perience and results <lf Union's own educa- ttonal organization d'Uring her 138 years. Dr. Ell<ery also consolidated the work of the college administrative offices at a great annual saving to the college. Liberalized Ohapel Service He liberalized compulsory cha,pel services so that the week-day meet- Ings are now devoted to discUilsions of topics of the -day by mellllbers . of the fruculty, by visiting business and professional men and by stu- dents, in add'i.tfon to the one day each week for music and religious services. When the new president has been inaugurated in June, Dr. Ellery will resume his fovmer duties as head of the chemistry department and will assume the position of chair- man of the faculty, a position simi- lar to tha.t which he held previously. Editor's Note: The following is one of a series of letters by members of the faculty con- cerning the new Union Plan of education which will go into effect in September. The let- ten; were written to Dr. Ellery who has given The Concordien- sis permission to print them. Now that the Union College Plan has been made public I wish to say that the changes in entrance re- quirements called for therein are undoubtedly definitely in the right direction. It is a case of placing the good judgment of the College regarding the character and the promise of the student in some di· rection above the record of accum- ulation of high school credits and that is intelligent. So far as the curr·icuiar changes now announced are concerne>d they should. on the whole, lead to a dis- tinctly higher intellectual student interest and effort, such as many of us have sought. r may be frank in saying that I feel the academic requirements for much of the work of our AB students have not been up to that called for from the sci- ence and technical students. It is strongly probable that the new plan will bring about better condi- tions in this 1;espect and that will be an excellent thing fur Union Col- lege. I believe that the success of the four course plan in the two upper years depends more on the members of the faculty than on the students, but you can unquestion- ably count on sincere faculty efforts. The continuation, under the plan, of the BS in Chemistry and the BS in Physics courses is, it seems to me, logical and justifiable in view of_ ~he speci~l circumstances per- tammg to Umon College which I have discussed with you. Union College should continue to do splen- did work in these fields. PETER I. WOLD, Head of Physics Department. CALENDAR Tomorrow Daily A.ssembly-Mr. H. Laur- ence Achilles. Sunday Chapel Service-Rev. S. McC. Cavert, secretary, Federal Council, Churches of Christ in America. Organ Recital-Dr. Elmer A. Tldmarsh, 4:00 p. m. Monday Student Body Meeting - Old Chapel, 10:00 p. m. League of Evangelical Students Meeting, 5 S. S. S. C. Philomathean Society Meeting, Old Chapel, 7:30 .p. m. Tuesday Daily Assembly-Rev. Clavton J. Potter, First Reformed Church. He was born. in Potsdam, N. Y., December 7, 1887, the son of James SylvestPI' and Julia Dixon. Fox. He attended Potsdam Normal School and then went to Columbia where he l'eceivE'd an A. B. degree in 1911. He continued his studies at Colum- bia; the following year he was awarded his Master's degree and in 1917 his Ph. D. ' The most sur.prisil' r·ehult of the questionnaire, in. the opini·on of The Concordiensis staff, was the popu- larity of the editorials among the He began teaching as an instruc- seniors. Editorials rated thild high- tor and lecturer in politics directly est of the thirteen different depart-· after his gi'aduation. He became ments of the papet, with 01·dinary full pn?fessor in 1927, and served college news and intercollegiate for a time as chairman. of the de- spot ts leading the list. partment of history. In 1929 and \In thl' Mail\ Ranks High 1930 he was visiting professor at Yale. Dm·ing the last three years \In the Mail,\ Notes on Contem- he has been editor of the Columbia poralie.:;, and int1amural sports University Quarterly. were f.ourth, fifth. and sixth, re- As research associate of the Car- spectivcly in the list of articles. negie Institute from 1918 to 1920, with the columns. appearing on the Dr. Fox pre>pared for publication .. uitoria.l page, rated lowest. the late Professor H. L. Osgood's Of the 83 seniors who submitted four volumes on \Thl' American •:Ut:>Hionnait es, 16 do not yet under- Colonies in the 18th Century\. He stand the Union Plan, nine are has also collaborated with Pro- doubtful about its success and one fessor A. M. Scillesinger of Harvard alone thinks it will be a ,failure. in the editing of a 12 volume \His- Unsatisfat'tory Coursl's tory of American Life\. Twenty-two courses, some of Lectured in Britain them taken durin.g the freshman In 1927-1928, as director of the yeAr, WPre declared unsatisfactory American University Union, he by the senior class, some of the rea- lectured in 18 British universities sons given Wei e very specific. and colleges. The \best\ and \worst\ features Dr. Fox has been on the editorial about The Concordiensis prov.f.ded a staff of Yale University's historical means for the seniors to air their motion pictures since 1923. He is C'omplaints without restraint and His~orical Association, joint editor criticism both pro and con' was of Its quarterly, was first wee- made about every feature on the president of the association from editorial page. 1927 to 1929, and president since Suggestions Hl'lpful The most hel.pful part of the questionnaire turned out to be the serious suggestions made at the end of the sheet, and these -are being ccnsidered ·and acted on by the staff. Among the predominant ideas p:·esented were .those about editor- ials,--that the question of intra- ~ural boxing and wrestling be re- VIved, that the present editoiial policy be continued, and that edi- torials be written about professors's v.jews on campus matters. One de- clared that the editorials should be discontinued, and. the space devoted to literary expression. A new marking system was ad\ vocated ·bY some; in this c<lnnection, The Concordiensis has jUilt begun a survey of the marking systems in other colleges in an a.ttempt to un- cover the best methods. Some be- lieve hour tests are ch.ildish. Articles on individual courses we·re asked for, while others want more contributions by students·, .programs ot local ·movie houses, more per- sonal notes, and individualized articles. One suggested thai an in- vestigation b.e made of the Athletic department, from finance to per- sonnel. What 110 juniors rea!d and their opinions of The Concordiensis will be published in the next issue. 1929. In addition he is chairman of the executive committee of the American Historical Association and chairman-elect of the commit~ tee on fellowships and grants of the American Council of Learned Societies. He has written sever<W books and ~agazine articles on historic<W sub- Jects. Among his published works arp: \Decline of Aristocracy in the Politics of New York\ \An His- torical Atlas of the United States\ \An Outline of Early Ameri~ History\ \Herbert L. Osgood, an American Scholar\ \Caleb Heath- cote, Gentlman Colonist\ \West- chester Court Minutes <1657-1696)\ \J. F. Cooper's New Yorlr\ and \A Quarter Century of Learning\. Dr. Fox manied Marion Stickney Osgood, daughter of Professor H. L. Osgood, in 1915. They have two sons, Herbert, 15, and Harold 12. Their home is in Scarsd<We. ' Dr. Fox is a member of Alpha Chi Rho, a social fraternity and Phi Beta Kappa. ' The announcement. of election of Dr. Fox was made by Hiram C Todd, vice-chairman of the board of trustees after a meeting of the board at the University Club in New York City. Mr. Todd also made known the appointment of (Continued on Page 4)

..• THE CONCORDlENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1934 ;- Two -1 <llnnrllr man clltss may be housed together during· RANDOM OBSERVATIONS By A • tfn. t!{rl theil' fil·st year, and as an indirect result of 4J 4J this improvement a better system of rush- ,---------------------'1 ing be devi&ed and put iato effect. \A ·Causa Peraa Pai'Ole Assai\ One of Dr. Fox's functions in the actual running of the college will be his contact with :the faculty. It will be his duty to establish Sidney David Markman Concerning Progress so on1y when under a strong hand Sunday Or.gan Recital Carmon 'Sortie ........ , .. Mulet FouNDED 1876 ~ssodatedo, ~~Jl~.~.iat~ ~t't'!IS -• !lJJJ IUAliONAl_~n~~~llVtRAi.tl }')34 ·~ The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fl'i'df!Lys throughout the college year, except dunng Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. .Address all business communications to Arthur J. Katzber·g, Kappa. Nu House, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communications to George R. Cory, J1'., Psi Upsilon House, Schene.~ct~a~d~Y~·--------------------------- SENIOR BOARD George R. Cory, Jr .•....•....... Editot·-in-Chief Arthur J. Katzberg .......... Business Managex· C. William Huntley ........... Managing Editor Robert H. Smlth .................. News }!;ditor Arnold J, Friedm!ln .............. Sports h:ditor Prince E. Oleson ........•....... Feature h:ditor Morton C. Stewart ....... ,Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD C. Hathaway J. Woolman ~- J:Serger D . .M-oulton SOPHOMORE BOARD J. Anderso·n R. :No·rth A. H. Stevenson V. Gilbert C. Reid, Jr. V. Trumbull Issue Editor ..... ~Donald B. Moulton Asst. 1ssue Editor .. Albert H. Stevenson FRIDAY, FEBI·WARY 23, 1934 A NEW PRESIDENT This is a great age of scientific --Rome, the Moors, the despotic achrevement. We like to think that kings after 1492, Primo de Rivera. W-\ are civilized to a degree far in It was i'l1 Spain that the inquisi- excess of any other age that pre- t\on reached a frenzied height. Is ceded us. What i:s more, we like ·to it a wonder then that victorious think that those who will come aft- party leaders in most South Amer- er us will be even more civilized ican republics have thek defeated and have contraptions of which we opponents either castrated or shot? students. \1Yhe11 such a group is divided, it • do not even dream of and of which Why did not the Inquit3ition flour- hal'lnony and cooperation among this group and to keep thei!' standard high. A faculty, to be effective, must have the !'espect of the Meditation ............. Dupont Adagietto from ',Arlesit>nne Suite ................... Bixet Funeral March of a Mario- nette ................. Gounod Prelude to Le Deluge .................. Sa.int\Saens Gavotte ............ Saint-Baens The Swan ......... Saint-Saeils Symphony No. 7 ........ Wider .1 i \1 1 f 't t th \xre th. 1.11k t.h,\·t we cannot concieve. ish in England, in Holland? The oses Ill UC 1 0 I S s· reng · \ \ The notion of progress is· a com- desire for Uberty was always a the Union faculty can justly be accused of mon one and particularly signifi- driving force in England. All things •, . . cant of o.ur age. By it we will be ·being equal, the general tendency 0 h 1 I' d b f t h f · · f d f ver t e arge console in massive , lusJIJU' a certam amount of stl\enotll m 1 d pl·es-· charactenze ,Y u .ure sc olars was ever or political ree om or S S 1 . \' \\ and archeologrsts, JUSt as the e\•eryone, until today England is aint u prce,. Paris, bends a be- l · · · 1 k · ht th t · h t i d h th t d · loved ar.tist; in spne of his eighty- ,... J by the notion of \the rtghts of man try in the world. nine years, Charles Marie Widor, twe because of tts ac of internal harmonv. erg cen .· cen ury rs ~ arac er ze ·.per aps e mas emocrat1c coun- \ th R · · dean. of contemporary French com- 1 One ol' the cl1ief 'ldv·tnt'\O'eS of the· Sln'\111' as a man, as e enar::Jsance 18 We look with am-azement on posers. continues to infuse his h Th spirit into service, to pass· on his • < < < o · ' c. haracterized by a spirit _of pagan- Germany and ask ourselves how colle<re from the underoTaduate point of view rsm! a return to t e ancrents. e could a nation which had pro- skill to his pupils, to pour forth his d ~ J sou on new manusc-ripts. He it:; \\ o < not10n of progress has become one gressed so far, ~uddenlv r·etur·n to 1 is that the snrtll colleo·e faculty is composed of the acc~pted ogmas today as :brute s·avagcry. Again let us take weaker now, and suffers from the ' <=> was the umversal church of Rome a look at the past. The Ger·mans M d cold winters of Northern France, of rnen who are interested principally in during the i dle Ages. were always barbal!ans. Of all pea- but no mging can confine him to However, like all beliefs which .ple whom Rome had to deal with, his home. large part fallacious. Have we ac- mans in large part caused the erad- When Marcel Dupre, friend of teaching, \Vllile at many of the lal'ge univer- are accepted ipso facto, it is in they were the toughest. The Ger- sities, men are chosen for their ability as tually progressed? Of course we ication of classical civHization and Dr. Tidmarsh who played in think we have. Witness the Century the plunging of Europe into an age Memorial Chapel last fall, returned of Progress in Chicago last sum- of darkness. Some of u,; pity the he found \the dear master\ very mer. But b that all there is to persecuted Jews there. But what of tired although not ill. During the progress: How far have we pro- it? It is nothing new, for Jews were American !.our of his friend M. gressed in painting since the Re- always persecuted in Germany. Widor was· constantly anxious, now naissance? How far have we pro- Just because they were given a re- that Dupre has returned, maiSter gressed in the art of play writing spite for a hundred years or so, and the .pupil, who iiS himself a since the time of Shapespeare? did not mean that the Germans master, .play together in Saint Sui- How far have we superceded the were .going to let off persecuting pice. Young in spirit, Wider strug- research men, and not as teachers. To carry on the l'nion Plan, \Ve think that the pre- requisite of a Union faculty member be that he pmve his worth as a teacher. We do not believe. further, that anyone should be kept hel'e who fails in this respect. Atheniams of the Golden Age in the the Jews forever. gles against the limitations of a S t f . A · w£'akened bod.y. art of politics? How much progress · even y- ,ve years ago mer- have we made since in the art of ica chewed tobacco, today Amer- J<'rench P1•ogram Sunday poetry since the time of Shelby? ica chews gum. Our civiliza- Dr. Tidmarsh, whose training has Rather is it more to the point to. tion, that of Europe, was one that culminated in his studies with these ;r,y that we have degenerated in was superimposed: ·on us while we great mu..:;-icians, will play three Dl'. Fox and the undergraduates will be con- these fields of human interest. Yet were barbarians, those of us who movements from Widor's Eleventh at no time in history has man ever had the imagination, England. for Symphony for Organ Sunday. No- g·enial ami mutually beneficial, and that the made in scientific progress such example, used this head start for where is Wider's great range of great advances as have we. good advantage. It took the iron style and mood better exemplified We fePl certain that the relations between new \Prexy\ wiil Cal'l'Y on the tradition set But the notion of all embracing hand of Bismark to raise Germany than in his ten org·an symphonies, progress as far as we are con- to a place of distinction among the works which in their idiom, regis- cerned still grips· us. We look with nations. Just 'because for the space tration, or utilization of various d' d · th bl' f S h o.t a century Germany begins tc stops, and technique have exercised by his predecessors of maintaining personal contact with and interest in all of the under- graduates. IS am on e repu rcs o out look cr'vr'JI'zed does n·ot mean she 1's. · fl d Am 1 • a · th · 1 l' an enormous m uence upon mo - er c rn err ever. as rng revo- Once a pl'g alwa\iS a pr'g no ma.tter · Th J ut' b '1 •- B t h t J '\1 n organ musrc. ey are a severe 1onary em ro1 ·menuo. u w a how many golden earr·r'ngs you stt'ck I 11 b h · d f 't? Wh h th s · h c 1a en.ge to · ot mstrument an o 1 . en ave e pams pea- in his ears. 1 ple ever evolved a stable democra- P ayer. The naming of a new pre.sident is probably one of the most significant events is the his- tory of a college. Upon the president may de:r>end the success oe failure of the college, even fo1· a period which may extend far be- yond that of his a;ctual reign. ,Union has been fot·tunate m having Dt·. Dixon R. Fox, who comes to Union from Columbia Univer- sity with such a brilliant record, chosen as A FINE RECORD Dt·. Edward Ellery, in the year during which he has g·uided the course of Union CollegE', has unquestionably em-ned the right to be considered one of Union's \Great.\ :\ot only has he carried Union successfully throug-h a periucl of national stre~s. but he has made himself even better loved ~md re- spected by l 1 nion men. tic government? If we take but one look behind us and see who their progen·itors were, we will soon kno.w why they never have. Even in the time of the Roman domi- nation of Spain, the .inhabitants were rambuncious and could: not be tamed. They never settled down to the business of ruling themselves peaceably. Witness Spain today witl1 approaching dictat01·ship Whenever Spain flourished, she did II EASY ON THE EYES II 000 For years the hockey team has been waiting for a real Siberian winter, and no one can deny l bt·-r-r-r!) that at last their wishes have come true. Coming from no- where, they capped a glorious sea- son by <-as the Boston Herald put it) \overwhelming\ Willi·ams. All credit to the team, down to the last substitute freezing on the bench, and to Messrs. Achilles and Clark, simon-pure amateurs in spirit, but not in coaching ability! its new head. The American college has undergone many changes in the last fifty years and the duties of the college president have likewise changed significantly. The college head is no longer concen1ed solely with academic matters. He must be a clever executive, a man who understands the value and prin- ciples of good pnlJlicity, and one who has the ability and peesona.lity to insure the financial income 0 r the college. P1·ofessor Fox comes to Union at what may very well be a critica-l time in its his- tory. We do not believe by this that Union is in danger of a sudden piunge to ohscurit~·, l>ut that the present era may set' an awaken- ing from the existing comfortal>le medi- ::\ o matter what the improvement in It is a peculiar fact that colleges seem to entE'l' periods of decline with amazing rapid- ity and often ove1· some apparently minor cause. I lence it is of' u~most importance that the policy 0f any first-class college be constantly scrutinized and guarded against any mistakE's. Dr. Ellery has done more than merely insme the successful continu- ance of l'nion fo1· during the pe1·iod that he has assumed the duties of the p1·esident, we feel that l'nion has made a very definite step forward. that of the adopti11g of a new and liberal educational system, the Union Plan. l )J·. Ellt>ry has p1·oven himself unafraid of thl' new. and scPptical of the traditional. Not only has he favored the new educational plan, but he has publically questioned such things as the policy of Phi Beta Kappa, the present mal'l<ing system, and parts of the present ocrity. faculty, educational system, or equipment, there can be no radical betterment of a col- lege without an increase in the level of the student body. It is this question that we feel to be Dr. Fox's first and most important consideration, and this end can be attained only through publicity. cuniculum. L'nion has been fo1·tunate in the mattel' of attracting national attention while Dr. Ellery ha::,; been acting-president. The Union Plan for the Intellectual Advancement of Youth has attracted intelligent comment all over the country. His speech on Phi Beta Kappa apppm·ed in many ·Of the leading papers of the country, and the present series of radio tall\s have attracted much attention as did his speech at the dedication of the N ott ~\lemorial Highway. :~~ ~~ * 000 \Queen Christina\ has come and gone, and history has taken its usual licking from the Hollywood revisers. Do not expect us to ad- mit that La Garbo can do any wt·ong; but it does seem queer to have the world .populated with two Queen Christinas, the real one who froze poor philosopher Descartes by expecting him to rise at five in the morning to teach her mathe- matics; and the Hollywood roman- tic who abandoned her throne to chase John Gilbert, the California Spaniard. * :~ * 000 To the attention of a fellow- columnist we should like to call thi» remark of Walter Pater's: \For the way to perfection is through a series of disgusts.\ * * ~ 000 It's a little hard to speak so- berly of the publication of \All Tri- via\ ·by Logan Pearsall Smith, a collection in one volume of his fam- ous !in a sm·all circle) \Trivia\ an·d \More Trivia,\ together with addi- tional aphorisms. There are few pieces of genuinely imperishable prose, for which we are ready to go \all out\ without reservations. \AH Trivia\ shows what can be done with words: it is the quintes- sence of style perfectly adapted to the expression of a divinely de- tached point of view. Do we rave? VIle do, unashamedly. * * * 000 \Work of Art,'' like nearly This matter of collegiate publicity has be- come a matter of prime importance in the last few years. Even the old.est and most conservative of eastern colleges have found it necessary to keep th€ names of their schools before the })U'blic through the medi- ums of their presidents, their faculties, and their organized college bureaus. ~o matter how excellent Union's educational plan, it must have pu.blicity if it is to attract the right sort of student. Dr. Ellery has that undefinable quality ·which makes him liked by everyone with whom he comes in contact, and if for no other reason than this, he has pr·oved him- self an excellent chief executive and emmis- sary of l'nion College. everything .produce·d by Sinclair Lewis, is great fun to read, even if Billy Phel-ps likes it, which iiS us- ually a pretty good negative in- dorsement. Lewis ·has rproduced a hotel-keeper's handbook and a good story at one and the same time; but the underlying assumptions of the novel are out-of-date long before pubHcation. Dr. Can·by has pointed out that Myron and Ora We·agle are the industrious and the idle appren- tices in modern dress; and Lewis shows himself more than ever the rugg·ed individualist ·of Sauk Center in a period which has turned * ~ \' It will indeed be fortunate if early during Peofessor Fox's administration a new dorm- itOTy can be erected so that the whole fresh- Dean Ellery's quiet faith and steady optimism should have, in the year in which he has so frequently appeared befote the undergTaduates, inspired them with confi- dence in the future not only of Union Col· lege, hut the sDciety in which they will very shortly take their places. thumbs down on that philosophy. * * \' 000 A journalist's. definition of lit- erature: \Literature is co.py deliv- ered too late to be usecL\ A literary man's definition of journalism: \Superficiality elevated to the rank of a profession.\ Take your pick. IGNOTUS. In five places at once -by telephone Conference telephone service-a new telephone convenience-enables a number of people far apart to talk together as freely as though gathered around a table. This fosters quicker interchange of ideas in business - saves time and money - expedites decisions. For example: an executive wishes to discuss plans with his district managers. His tele- phone is connected simultaneously with each of theirs- all can talk, all hear everything that is said! Through constantly developing new uses, Bell System service grows more and more valuable. BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM WHY NOT SAY \HELLO\ TO MOTHER AND DAD? -RATES ARE LOWEST AFTER 8:30 P.M. ; ,, I I I '\ j . I '

j . I ' Hockey Team Enjoyed Good Year, Playing Close Games Won fl'Om Williams, Middle-. bury, Colgate, Losing Thne Games by One Goal Marg·ins By ALBERT H. STEVENSON The hockey sextet ended a most successful season Saturday when they defeated Williams, 5 to 1, for the first time in the history of Amherst Defeats Union Five, 27 to 22 Sabrinas Break Their Seven Game Losing Streali, Nos- ing Out Garnet Wednesday hoclmy between the two institu- Breaking a seven game losing tions. Although the season appear- streak, the Amherst College quintet ed to be a mediocre one on the defeated the Union varsity five bssis of games won and lost, the vVednesd'ay night in Pratt gyrnna- fact remains that out of the six sium, Amherst, by a score of 27 to games played against stiff compe- 22. The game, which was a rough titian the Garnet won three by im- and tumble affair, mar.ked the third pressive scores, while droppping defeat Union has suffered in bas- three by a one point margin in ketball at the hands of Little Three each case. teams this season. Middlebury bowed to the Garnet Art English, Amherst center, reg- b istered eight fouls to become the in the .first game of the season Y leading scorer of the game. Turner, a 1 to 0 score. The .game was slow- d d ed up considerably by the soft ice, flashy Sa'brina forwar ·, rna e sev- f . t en points. The Jeffs took an early but on a rebound shot in the Irs lead which they held throughout, pel'iod, Jenltins scored the one and although at half time the score was only goal of the game, to give Un- tied at 13 all. ion its first victory. The w0rk of Capta;in George Fus- Lost to A1•my co of Amherst helped the Sabrina THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 193-1 ThreE! To Broadcast From Union Chess Match Radio Station Of Courses m Economics E PLURIBUS UNUM * .. Tulloc . • es~n es a .ue I I young things. So why not? h D 'b V 1 ~~ ~- or up in the woods for the sweet --- Just one year ago, this paper re- The Schenectady Chess Club wiH The assets of a course in Econom- One of the paramount reaso. ns 1 . quested clod-hopping un~erg1·ads to play a radio chess match with ics are three fold, said Henry W. for a new Union plan -to super- k.eep off th~ grass. W1th the ar- ·t>oughkeepsie Saturday afternoon Tulioch '34 in Tuesday chapel. H h 1 f ptm we repeat the re at 1 P. M. in the E_. E. building. The teaches one to tackle intelligently sede the eight year· plan- -was tt. at qr~:St o s · g - CMI '11 b d those pro:blems which are :before of greater economy of opera wn. · -· .• h t d the Wol ·ld. There have been many e men or:; r·esponst e or e college station, W2 , WI · roa - Th t 'bl f Lh / ··· ... * cast the moves of the Sc enec a Y h h k h 11 W2BJX ·u t theories advanced .expounding rem- :;c. erne oped to rna e t · e co ege Ad ... · . . . t f N players, while WI . . radns- edt\es for the present depres<:lion. atlministl-ation mote simple than it I . mls\wn ~ equu e~en o a ew mit for Poughkeepsie. Bra ley has been. But in one division alone Engla~d co!lege- f1 eed~m. from Plum mer, '36, ope11ator of the col- The .plans ran-ge from the foolish contagiOus d1sea:;e Adm1sston re- idea 0f wa:ging a -revolution to the thN·e will bP one majm--genet al, . '_ . : ? lege S tation, repor-ts that several f' 1 _, b t tl · quu cment:o of Un1on- - more .profound belief in spending 1ve gene1·a :;, anu u rree pn- · successful test games have already s 1 1 ld · t f one's income as a necessitu to the vates. uc 1 a set-up :; 1ou msure been -played with the opera or o ' · d t\ 1 1 t t maintenance of pi·osperit\. Un-for- ·a vancemen a ·ong- a mos. any the Poughkeepsie station. In o- • f t morrow's match four games will be tunately a:ll these theories, the ron · To D1·. Ellery, our sincere thanks 1 'th th speaker pointed out, contain- a sem-/ and best wishes. To Columbia, our played simultaneous Y WI . ree blance of the truth. It is, however. heartfelt S''mpathy,-their loss, our players consulting at each board . .A \ C aptain will .give the final .decision disaster0us to bl-indly accept them 1 T _ ·r· _ h b gain. Union has made history-\his- h aU. I wo slg_DI !cant pomts ave een tory\ has made Union. We con- over the 'Other players m eac- Secondly, a-fter constantlv sui vev-1 made dun_ng the past few months: gl·atulate our tr-u~teE's. A swell job. R. Stevens' D r. C. W. Hewlitt, Louis ing the econo~ic princi,ples _of the i It ' ? . hs .. d uod o d . tl - E. P. U. game. These captains will be F. J J 11 J the1 e 1 dPad w d n the fac I past eras, one 1s able to acquire the 1 u y, I_) t ete Is ea . woo m ' 1e Guckemus and A. R. Miles. Sham abi-lity of retrospection. By this :;tudent body. No pomt whatever ------- team, will ·be one of the players. made in the past, and is, thus, able i mtmstratw_n._ ~t ha:, been suggest.ed S,imon, '34, of the college c ess means one can clearly :;ee the faults I h<l:s . been. made coneet·mng the ad-, rr==============jJ Ch Teshsec!Tuybrol.ns ademfea~;~dp{~yeedc~~fs~ to avoid the pitfalls experienced .by I thaft theh dt~lsion of the collell\e md- SHOE REPAIRING predecessors. , to our oo;;t!le eamps was motivate day evening at the Kappa Nu Thirdly, Tulloch stated that toocial I by a .desire to ge.t all the de~d I house. T-he first game of the match science stud-ies destr·oy many ill-' wood m the cullege togcthet·; We I was -not played but in .the other founded illusions. There is in I wonder. games the college .team lost 3 1- 2 - America a popular CO!'JCept o~ thE> 1 * . :- l 1-2. B. J. Sweeney defeated Richard equality and O<pportumty of nghts 1 Kelsey, '37; B. Brown beat Charles and of the fact that every American I . . Hincldey '36; Richard Passenger, born citizen can become President. I Th~ Gle_e Club ~huuld. ~e~.1cate '37 lost to 0. Early, and Dr. G. :J. Such erroneous beJ!efs must nece:;- the f11 st 1.1.ne of B1lly ~111 s Last Palmero played Arthur Katzberg, sari!y be shattered 60 that in the ,Rou'!d Up to ~he late. Kmg Albert. '34 to a draw. The college team future these fundamentals of the ro d1e alone w1th ones teet m the has only one more match to play in Constitution may be realized as air is, for a king,_ the most unheroic the Schenectady Chess League actual facts. of unherOic deatns. A stray bullet tournament. \If education is a search for t.he from a German gun twenty years truth, Econ-omics must be consid- ago --would have made him the ered an impo1tant course in the greatest hero of the Great War. college curriculum,\ were the con- ---0---- LIFE-SAVING CLASS RUBBER HEELS-39c Any Make HALF SOLES-79c FULL SOLES and HEELS $2.25 Work done while you wait. Free delivery service. Bring this add with you and· get a .free shine with each job. Agent at Union College R. 0. NELSON Kappa AJpha Lodge Tel. 4-8122 The second game of the season in the closing minutes to insure was played against Army on the in- victory. This was Amherst's third door rink at West Point. Although 'victory this season. Union led 3 to 0 in the second per- The summary follow\'· All those interested in taking a life saving course leading to a mem- Pts bership in the American Red Cross 0 Senior Li.fe Saving Corps are asked iod, they were unable to keep up with the fresh Army substitutes AMHERST (27) FG that were sent into the game in the Green, rf ............. 0 second and third frames. The Fusco, rf ............. 2 FP 0 0 0 1 8 0 2 0 0 to report at the swimming pool on 4 Monday afternoon -at 2 o'clock. The 0- course will take about three weeks, 7 and the classes will probal>ly meet 8 twice a week. Complete gvm credit ~ will be given for those desiring it. cluding words of his talk. ---o·--- Scholarship to Brooklyn Law School Availabll;! to Seniors This depression brought us the Union Plan for the I. A. of Y. The next depression will give birth to- coeducation within these walls. E pluribus unum. Coeducation would satisfy a long felt need here. It would relieve the anxiety of the admission committee. It would drive the boys out of some of the more effeminate courses. It would relieve the much felt monotony of \town dates\. It would give us three deans instead of two. Also, s-tatistics show less divorces among/ coed marriages than in othet splices. Then too there is plenty of 1 room either down in the pasture Will be glad to call for and l'e- tUJ'll shoes at no additional cost. THE WALLACE CO. Dutchmen fought vainly to hold Steinhart, If . . . . . . . . . . 0 Phone 4-7711 their lead, but to no avail, and the Turner, If ............ 3 Army finally won the game 4 to 3. English, c . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Any student graduating in June from Union is qualified to apply f<Jr a tuition scholavship at Brook- lyn Law School, acc-ording to an announcement by Herman Schier- loh, president of the Union College Club at the law school. Applica- tions should be made now, since personal interview.:; will ·be ar- ranged for at Union later in the semester. Address the dub at 375 Pearl Street, Brooklyn. -Basement. A strong Colgate team, determin- Keesey, c · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 ed to avenge last year's defeat at Moses, rg- · · · · · · · · · · · · · 1 the hands of Union, was the next Malcolm, lg · · · · · · · · · · · 1 sextet vanquished by the Garnet. Marriott, lg · · · · · · · · · · · 1 Although the Maroon team was big Totals · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 8 2 ·---0•--- 11 2 NOTICE 27 FRANK FERRARO and fast, they were outskated and UNION (22) FG outplayed by the Union pucksters McDowell, rf ........ ·. . o FP 2 0 2 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 8 Pts 2 2 6 0 1 2 3 1 5 0 in a rough game. The Dutchmen Semerad, rf ........... 1 showed a vast improvement in their Milano, If ............. 2 teamwork in this game, and scored Priznar, If ............. 0 three goals, holding their opponents Waldron, c ............ 0 scoreless. Smith, c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Close Hamilton Game Dow, rg ............... 1 Union lost a close game to Ham- Rotunda, rg · · · · · · · · · · 0 t h . b Moffett, lg . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 !ton shortly af er t 1s y a score G · 1 0 of 2 to 1. Led by Captain Hutton am, g · · · · · · · · · · · · · · I d f t Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 the team p aye a as , snappy 22 game which took the Buff and Blue ---o•--- by surprise. Captain Hutton scored the lone Garnet tally in the first period, and ii was not until the last frame 'that Hamilton. re- taliated. It was necessary to play two overtime periods before Ed- wards netted the winning goal for Hamilton. In a return game with Middle- bury, the Dutchmen were defeated 3 to 2. Although Union played a good game the vastly improved Maroon team proved too much for them. Last Saturday the sextet closed its season with the over- whelming victory over Williams. Individual Scoring Throughout the season the squad has been handicapped by the weather, and at times, has been unable to practice. With this in mind the season has undoubtedly been a success, and the squad de- serves plenty of credit. Individual Union scoring for the season is as follows: Jenkins, 6 goals; Hutton and Fox, 3 each; Williams, 2, and Bergmann, 1. ----0---- Bell and Alonso to Play Tennis Match in Armory Tennis fans will get a chance to see a fine indoor exhibition of the court \Same this Saturday night at 8:15 o clock at the State Armory at the corner of Nott Terrace and State street, when Berkeley Bell, runner-ll!p to Jean Borotra for the national indoor singles title in 1931, will face Man-uel Alonso, former Spanish Davis cup player in a sin- gles match. Bill Aydelotte, Union varsity ten- nis coach, will pair with Alonso in a special doubles match against Ben and Frank Bowd'en, conquerer of Keith Gledhill, Vine's doubles partner, following the singles. Tickets for this match cost one dollar and! may be obtained at the Armory Saturday night. :::m::::::m:::m:::mm:::::::m:::mm:::m:::m:::mm:: t::::~::::,::::~~J Schedule Monday nlght-7:30, Kappa Nu vs. Phi Sigma Kappa. 8:30, Phi Delta Theta vs. Theta Nu Epsilon. Tuesday-7:30, Delta Upsilon vs. Delta Phi 8:30, Delta Pi Nu vs. Beta Theta Pi. Authors' Club of London Made Dr. Dewey Member Dr. A. Gordon Dewey was re- cently elected to \The Authors' Clu'h,\ of London in recognition of his ·book \The Dominions and Di- plomacy\ which was published in 1929. The letter, announcing Dt. Dewey's election, from Hon. Secre- tary Algernon Rose explains that the purpose of the club is \to serve as a he-adquarteu> for men engaged in literary work and a center from which inquiries, regal'ding the pub- l-ication of .books, and other mat- ters, are answered.'' The governing board of \The Author's Club\ is made up of many notables. Among them are Sir James M. Barrie, its president; Lord Dunsany, the playright; Sir Wilfred Grenfell, the explorer; E. Phillips Oppenheim, author of de- tective novels; Rafael Sabatini, au- thor of historical novels; H. G. Wells, reformer; and Thornton Wilder, novelist. rurr;;·A;;;\a;;b~;i m Shop m i Seruice With A Smile ~ ill PHONE 4-4525 iii m m ii1509 UNION STREET J!! ~~\:m::m::mm;;;mmmm:m:mmmm::m:m:m:mi:::: NEW SUEDE JACKETS FOR OLD A startling discovery makes it possible to remake your old leather or suede jacket into a new one. MT. PLEASANT FURRIERS and TAILORS 931 Francis Ave. Phone 2-3770 We Call f.or and Deliver THE BRASS RAIL TASTY FOODS and DRINKS 8 State Street Opp. Van Curler Hotel Delta Pi Nu has withdrawn from the Intramural Basketball League and will be supplemented by the Chi Psi team. • • IS oading a pipe, son, like building a fire uNOW if you want to build a fire you-'ve got to have the right kind_ of chimney, and you've got to have the right kind of wood, seasoned right and packed right in the fireplace. If you've got all this, i~s easy to light up. \It's pretty near the same way in smoking a pipe. Now if you've got Granger Tobacco- the right kind of pipe tobacco- any old pipe will do. ..And if you put in a pinch at a time and pack it down good and tight-the way to load a pipe-all you need to do is strike a match. ttGranger smokes sweet and cool right down to the bottom of the bowl. (tThat's pipe comfort, I tell you.'' Fruit and Produce Wholesale and Retail If it grows, I have it! 1231 CRANE ST. Tel. 2-7828-W ranger Rough Cut the pipe tobacco that~s MILD the pipe tobacco that's COOL @ 1934, LIGGBTT & MYIIBS TOBACCO Co. -fills seem to !t-he lt •

THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1934 . . Dr\ Cavert . -.Sp· eaker Se.con .. d _E_ dition of Idol I obligation is to. the depo~itor. If he ~t appears, therefore, that the I Bronner Discusses Fi.r·st and ·leadershLp, was the claim made Four , has leat·ned th1s lesson m the past fatlure of the Federal Xeserve Sys- by Mr. Bronner. I 1 t . t• . }\ t Dtsti 1buted On Campus five yea-rs, the wa,ve o~ bani~ fail- tern to _revive business, and further, President's Human Side Professor Bronner' gave concrete S n e. rna tona lS --- I ure::; has not been m vam. F~nally, the fatlure of the System to aid examples of Washin.gton.'s true . ~here has _b~en a lack of conftdence · that rev!Val after it had begun, --- character. He showed how .A:me.r- tContmued f1-om Page 1J m. tJ:~ _PO~lctes of the Roosev~l-t ad- hav~ destroyed t!J.e theory tha~ t_he The human side of George Wash- ica~s fkst president had ·a sterling Minister to Preach in Chapel Sunday Is Affiliated With Federal Council of Churches In .ti;J.e wl'iter of \Vignettes the ml~ustr a;lOn. 'f'he . g? 1 ~. P;t~cl1a~e busmess depre:::.ow~ can b~ elu~m- i-ngt0n was the topic discussed yes- nense of humor. The 'President was Id0l has foun'd a new and clever ~ian wa~- es~e.ctally mJuttous m. thts a-ted through -credit mampulatwn terday by Professor Frederick L. capa:ble of making and ta:king a contributor. F'et:dinand Helm, '37, 1 espec~ .. - In:sHtuted fol' .th~ purp~se by the Fed:e,ral Reset ve. System. Bronnet·, of the History Depart- g'God joke. \Washington was not offers three very short humorous of -tau,;mg the commodtty p!lce Thus an0ther noble expenment has ment in DaHy Assembly Washing- the austere <femi-god people think h , . t 1 _ t b . G'·l'-b ·t T k level, the plan was a new depatture failed. t ' , -t , . b · f h' f t d \ 'd M B Th c arac ,.er s •e c es. 1 ~~ u~. from tested monetary practice and . ?11 was a grea ~an. ecause o. ,1s 0- o ·ay, sat ,r. ronner. e has. wutten the t:vo poetry con-tn- represented an experiment in price '1 • • fme human quall-bes, t;-on~~ty, JUSt- speaker showed ho!W Wa:shington ~utwnn to th .. \ '\\\\·\ 'rhey ace eon trot ··egru·dod with m~h ,.u.. Fox, Columbia Professor' •• ,, eou•ag• and. oomW>hty; ·~· onjoyod a \''\ \\ of h=ttng, Dr·. Samuel McCrea. Ca vert, Gen- eral Secretary of the Federal Coun- cil of the (\hurc>hPs of Christ in America, will deliver the sermon at the Union College chapel services on Sunday, February 25, at 11:00 o'clock in the Memorial Chapel, Schenectady. Gast;,o-Analy.sls and Sm m the faction by thii>se who believed that I Ch, N p . ,•d t not because ,of h1s statesmanship dancing, receptions, and visits. Dark.. ' • . I prtces couhl be cuntwlletl by mone- s asen ew I esl en -----------------------------~-- Editor.ia1s. \\ntten b~ Smtth tary means, and with deep appre- I ---- 1) I FLOWER SHOP The edttonals of the 1ssue .c~m-1 hension by those who believed that · . pn,;e a ru;;cu~,;tu:r: Llf tll~ nelh Cmon the J;ulicic.; would I'<'!<Ult f'VPntuallv \Contmued f10m Page Plan, takmgup m tur~ the v_ar1ou.s in uncontrolled inflation. The bank- I the laaugunxtwn Committee, aspects of the plan tt:;elf, tts ef- ing fraternity belonged to the !at- will consist of Edwin W. Ri which : ce, J-r. y, £d- right, ~ects upon the andergrad-uates, and ter group. Hiram C. Todd, Frank Baile 1ts effects upon secondary sch0ol . . , . , . gar Barney, W. Howa-rd W students. They were written by I PJoblem 8hll Extsts John C. Van V0ast and Dr. E dward' Robert H. Smith, '34, and are ac- The fai!m·e of the bankers to ex- Ellery. ' companied by a short historical pand credit -to aid the business re- As twelfth president of Uni0n y the led in t men unger; Dr. Cavert is a graduate of Union College, in the class of 1910. He received the Master of Arts degree from Columbia University in 1914 and the Bachelor of Divinity degree from the Union Theological Semin- ary in 1915. Lawrence College con- fen·ed by honorary degree of Doc- tor of Div-inity uuon him in 1928. -t edu- background of the plan written covery is b-ut one aspect, of a more C01lege, Dr. Fox will occup by Wasosmansc:\orf, and by a full fundamental problem. 'Ihe Federal po:;itioB which has been fil page diagrai_ll showing h?W the plan Res~r.ve Sys~em ha_s attempted to the pa::;t by such prominen 1s to be put mto use. Smtth hruo also stabthze bus!ncss smc~. 1923. The as Jonathan Edwards the yo con.tributed. ~noth~~- o-f his co!.umns years o. f bu.~mc,;s ~tabthty _betwe?n I D 1 ·• Eliphalet Nott, the grea wh~ch a:e t~tle-d I?ol T_alk, a!ld 1923 and.1927 wer.e .r;gatded as cator who presided over th '::l'htch _g1ve mt<E:~·.estmg btts of m- pro<;>f that the obJeCt!\ e had been tinie,; of the college for mor tormatton from the. c~mpus, here, achtev~~- Then follo':'ed tw0 ;Year:~ sixty years; Eliphalet Nott e des- e-than Potter, During the yea-r following his theological studies, Dr. Cavert travelled in the Orient up0n a fel- lowship awarded by the Union Theological Semi~ary. In 1918, ~e enlisted and recetved the commis- sion of first lieutenant in the United States Army. v. v. eritus there, and everywhet e. of . rapldly expa~dlng bus mess Dr. Nott's grandson· Andrew d. The book reviews are written by wh1ch the System atded r~ther .t~an Raymond· a d p. '.d t E Helm, WassmansdGt'f, William s. retarded by tts ea,;y credtt pollcres. Charles Ale;ande\·es-ki~~mOI~.n In- e third ho has McCord '35 Jerome s Rosen '35 The 1929 cta.oh exploded the myth 'd 11 D· F . d P '1 B ',k '35 R · B 'k d that credit manipulation could pre- ct er:ta y, r. _ox wtll beth ~elm a:!.ch e~t:ote. tw~se~~·vie~s an vent a business depression. Since pretstbdent of Umdo~ Cdolleg:e .w · 1929, and especially in 1932 and 1933. no een an Gr ame mmtst unprecedented attempts were made - · ---o to expand credit and so to aid busi- SNOW TRAIN NOTICE er. -o------ Practically the en tire ministry of Dr. Cavert has been spent in inter- denominational work, through the Federal Council of Churches, of which he became General Secretary Federal Reserve Fails to ness. On each occasion the fai:lure A h • Ch' f Qb' t• to achieve this objective was ex- C -teve · 1e JeC IVe plained as being due to factor:,; out- aining North in 1921. (Continued from Page 1 l Dr. Cavert is the author of \The Adventure of the Church\ and \Securing Christian Leaders for Tomorrow,\ and has collaborated in several other important volumes dealing with the problems of the modern church. Finds Alligators 'lntt>resting' Despite Cannibalistic Habits commercial paper-. At the same time, bankers have not forgotten the criticism heaped upon them in the past for lending upon anything but \sure things.\ A question of responsibility also arises. The banker is handling other people's money, and while he has responsi- bility to the borrower, his primary \The alligator is strongly canni- balistic, and seldom hesitates to eat the young and injured of his own tribe,\ relates Archibald Rutledge, Union '04, in his article entitled, \The Grim Alligator,\ w.hich ap- pears in \The Virgin,ia Quarterly Review\ for January. \De.spite his <the alligator's> grimness,\ says Rutledge, \his sav- age strength, his sinister stealth, and his treacchery, he has perhaps some redeeming features; at any rate, he Is always interesting, a liv- ing representative of the ancient days of the earth.\ Ml'. Rutledge continues by telling of the alligator's enemiec;. The hog is his commonest victim, but the dog is his favorite. \Any tlog that swims in -alligator-infested waters is doomed.\ His enemies need fear him most when the al-ligator ts· in the water. These· grim reptiles are clever swimmers. \One of thPir most remarkable manoeuvers is their sinking from sight without creating a ri,pple.\ says· Mr. Rut- ledge. The Hen·ry Harrison Company of ;::.iew York recently pliblio;hed a hook of poem.• by the author of \The Grim Alligator\ C'aliPd, \V<'iled Eros.\ o-~--- Union Chapter of L. E. S. Will Send Students to Convention Frank Squires and Frederick Turn ball of the dru,;~ of '34 will represent the college cha.,ter of the League of Evangelical Students at the ninth annual convention to bE' held at Gordon College this week- end. Among the outstanding men who will appear on the program a:; speakers -and discussion leaders are: Dr. Robert Hall Glover, Prof. R. B. Kuiper, Dr. Austin Du Blois, i Dr. J. Gresham Machen, Dr. Ed~~ ward Payson Drew, and sevPral others. i - -- ----0 - - ' SAYRE TO SI'EAK Profe::;sor Mortimer F. Sayre, of the Engineering Department, will suealt at 8:00 o~cloclt at the YWCA I bef01 e the League of Women Vot- ets on the subject of \The Pros and Cons of the St. Lawrence Water-~ way.\ Mr. Sayre will speak again on Tuesday evening at 7.45 in the En- gineering Building beforE' the Union College chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineers. The title of his address is \The College Man in City Government.\ -------o----- :NOTICE In contemplation of a heavy de- mand fol' seats at the Rensselaer- Union basltetball game on March 3, it is deemed advisable to issue tickets to students in the same manner as for the football games the past season. This action is made necessary by the limited seating capacity of the gymnasium and also to insure early patrons of choice seats. Auxiliary bleachers will be erect- ed at each end of the court for gen· era! admissions (55c each). All seats on the sides of the court and balcony will be reserved <75c eachl. The 'game is scheduled to start at 8:45p.m. • d see , side the control of the Reserve 1 Banks. The world-wide deflation Place. of prices and the lack of confidence on the part of business men always 11111111111111111•111111111111•11111111 •••! THE FARM appeared to thwart the efforts. • However, in 1933, when commerce : and industry ~l)owed a measure of • r~covery, and c~nfidence was re- •THE COUNTRY Cl vtved, the bankmg system refused. • to yield under the pressure to ex-1: REST AU RANTS pand credil. And today the prob- • lem still exists in all its viciousness. 1 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDBIIIIIl!llllll • • • us: • II • ... •••• ROSENDALE Te-legraphlc Florist ScheneCJtady's F I owe r s of Quality 1Z4 Jay Street Phone ~0540 Opp. Oty Ball ?Jtly HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N. Y. C. Arcade ~ r r VISIT The MOHAWK TAVERN Clams and Oysters OUR SPECIALTY 322 State Street Next to Overhead Crossing You hear a lot today about balanced diet- • .. and there's something too in the way tobaccos are bal- anced that makes a cigarette milder and makes 1t taste better. I keep coming back to that statement on the back of the Chesterfield package- (8ESTERFIELD·· .. -([GARffiES ARE A BALANCED BLENl.J OF THE FINEST AROMATIC TURKISH TOBACCO AND THE CHOICEST OF SEVERAL AMERICAN VARIETIES BLENDED IN THE CORRECT PROPORTION TO BRING OUT THE FINER QUALITIES OF EACH TOBACCO. REG. U.S. PAT. OFF. We believe you'll enjoy Chesterfields and we ask you to try them. Official U. C. Photographers Portrait and Commercial Photographing TilE WHITE STUDIO 215 State Street -the cigarette that's MILDER -the cigarette that TASTES BETTER U. C. Representative T. WHIPPLE, Chi Psi @ 19:;4, LIGGHTT 1Ji: MYERS TOBACCO Co,

~ ,j J 1 \ - \\ President- Elect • • Many Students Dixon Ryan Fox ( r StS Get Jobs To Appear As Under Fedeml Spencer Lecturer Emergency On Friday Night Relief In Old Chapel Administration Vol. LVII., No. 38 UNION COLLEGE, SCHE:t\TECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS ==~============~==============~r====================·=-============~==============~~====~======-= E . ·x-Preside:nt Oay·.Stu~ent Body. DiscusAes President-Elect Dixon Fox Expresses President-elect, Dr. Fox Union Students Get ASS istant Football Coach Spencer Lecturer Friday F d l C Writes to Students · · · Joy At Adoption Into College Family e era amp us F ' t . us m · - · To the Students· of Union College: V\' e shall need and want suggestions · H S . A t' Fox '35 announced 1·n Stu President-elect Dixon Ryan Fox, JobS By F E· R A : rom ' ' 0 . prln.gs .. dent Body meeting yesterday that' On receiving formal· notice O·f ~y from. any and every quru;ter. 1!-S to at present professot· of History at . ' II • • • the Student Council had petitioned appointment as President of Umon how 1t can best serve the md!vidual Columbia University, will deliver --- . the Athletic Board to O·btain a line , College, the fl',rst ·letter .that I write s. tudent, but .what i.s most needed h h' S l H G bl . coaeh to assist Mr. Hatfield in d d 11 f t e t 1rd pencer Lecture, Friday Letter Re ates OW . , am Ing coachin\' the football team. The is to the students of the CoHege. Is .the etermme • WI o every stu- evening at 8:30 in the Old Chapel. \' h You-that is to say, we-have a, 1 dent to prove .jt 17 success before And Religious Bickering petition al~o suggested that t e sal- great tradition to save and advance. the country; certamly the country Dr. Fox's topic will be \Refuse ary for this coach be taken out of Born and bred in upstate New· looks on with interest. Mix to Form Weste])ll. Life •the athletic appropriations which York and having ma:de some study As an. ex.-pr_esiden. t of a national Ideas and Their Disposal.\ He will ~would not effect the student tax. f t t t d 1 htf 1 t deal with the ideals cherished in The motion for the abolishment of its history, I especially app.re- ra erm Y 1 IS e 1g · u o ~e. to J · s h d F h ciate this ad·option into the Unum come to the Mother of Fratermtles. high academic schools M the be- stayl 'ng for Tnro Months ·of . umor, op omore an . res - h' t u . c lie h b n fa u f • n ; man class officers made by Ralph 'College family, and t IS OPJ?Ol' un- · mon ° · ge as e~ .. mo s or· ginning of the nineteenth century Semerad '35 at the last meeting was Ity to bear a hand with you m car- the :Wholes·om':l part mdiV!dual rec- and what has become of them. tabled until March 12. rying .forward: its S1Jiendid career. 1eat1on plaY:s m the life of the stu- The meeting will be conducted Dr. Day Also Thanks Students' __ --o---- Our product is going- to be, as it dent a.t Umon College, as well as under the chairmanship of Profes- has been in the P'ast, character, for !he spi·rit of iLs teams. We all sor Frederick Bronner of the His- For Autographed '34Garnet Ellery to Conduct· 'learning and leadership. chensh the good name of the Ool- tory department which is sponsor- --- Union CoHege, we ·are aJ.I glad to .lege in sportsmanship as well as in ing this lecture. 0 R I • • feel is not in need of making over scholarship. No one knows better The Spencer lectures are open to '·Forum n e Iglon in ~y important concern. States- than I that much of the joy of one's the public and are free of charge. : · · · . l. manlike thinking in the faculty has whole life comes from college con- This is the concluding address of February 21, 1934 9 Fern Street Hot Springs, Arkansas fruited in a new plan of college edu- tests and experien-ces outside the the 1933-34 series. cation which I know will have your classroom. Amon.g these I earnest- loyal ~upport. The restless zeal for ly ·hope that you will seek, what improvement. which this finely evi- will always be extended, the per- donees does not die with the accom- sana! friendship of your president. plishm'ent of this intelligent design. (Signed) DIXON RYAN FOX. Dear Union Boys, I was very much touched by a le-tter I recently recei.ved from Donald Moulton, which informed Will Discuss and Attempt to Define Modern Relationship Of Science to Christianity ---0·--- me that a number of you had auto- Cl b H T ]k graphed: the 1934 Garnet and sent In the third of a .series of open' Mr Smith's Poetry French u t<? e~r !l it on to me. I appreciate your.· forums sponsored by the Y. M. c. o . I V I b} About Mountam Chmbmg Sub- freshmen to Be Here This Friday A. of Union College Dr. Edward c thoughtfulness and I assure you Ellery will discuss and answer the {)UfSe § a ua e --- .that the book will be kept amon.g following questions: Week-end Program Includes Trip to Locomotive Works And G.E.'s 'House of Magic' d · Are the present research methods my treasure possessiOns. .on science applicable to the sphere \\Ve have had a tremenc1ous win- of mind and spirit? ter in Nova Scotia, the lake ice got Do the results of the scientific Smith's Lectures Interesting, Thought-provoking; Uses Most Modern Criticisms to ·be two feet thick and u.sed to investigations of man's physiCal en-~ Cl·ack and roar in the frost at night. vironment indicate that man's emo- The sno.w lay nearly three feet on tiona! and mental make-up have a the 1evel and the drifts were from physical basis? five to seven feet deep. As it was Are abnormal mental conditions; Editor's note: This is the first difficult for me to get around in caused by abnormal phvsical condi-' .c•f a serit>s of ai'ticles wl'itten by such deep snow, I decided to go out tions: If so, may man'tl religious: stud(>nts concerning coui'Ses to Hot Springs, Arkansas, for Feb- nature have physical cause? 1 which, in tht>ir opinion are val- ruary and March \to take the baths Are there any mental or: spirit uable. For obvious reasons tht> and drink the waters,,\ activities that are not caus·ed by names of the students contrib- Knew Nothing of Arlransas external physical stimuli? tating these articles will not be Can man's mind or spirit affect published. I knew nothing of Arkansas, in physical conditions? fact I had only known one Arkan- Have not human relations been Mr. Smith offers a very satisfac- sasian and he was a Rhodes Scholar fundamentally affected by the re- tory course in nineteenth century at Oxford named -I suits of scientific research? poetry. He treats each poet and his daren't tell you his name ·because Should a man who accepts the' works in a reasonable and unbiased now he is a highly respected pro- principles of the Christian religion manner, always allo·win;.: his stu- fessor of Economi•cs in an eastern. take part in a war which is a phy- dent:s to express any ideas which college, and I often see articles by sica! contest? they might have on the topic under him in the N. Y. Times, on the Gold Sll.ould a church or any religious consideration. The lectures are in~ Standard or the New Deal, etc. But organization make use of Scientific teresting and thought-provoking in his youth he was far froon re- research in de!ieving physical suf- for Mr. Smith has an excellenot co,m- specta:ble; he :began his career at fering? Or should the entire depen- mand of language and a deep un- Oxford by getting very drunk and dence be placed on mind and spirit derstanding o.f the lives and works going to sleep in one of the college in all cases of that kind·? of the poets o.f this period. quadrangles. W·hen a good Samar- Do you believe that science will As a young man and a fine itan, a young English Un\dergrad-. ever discover the life-principle? scholar, Mr. Smith has availed him- ua.te attempted to rouse him, -- · Or be able to create animate from self of the most modern criticisms rose, and fell upon his benefactor. inanimate matter? If it d'Oes, won't as well as many of his own ideas and with Arkansian fury ·knocked .such discovery remove the religious and has incot'porated them into his him down an.d broke his leg. This element from human experience? course. This system of teaching is almost ruined the Rhod'es Sc.hoJ.ars Are mind and spirit essentially beneficial, in common, to the stu- in Oxford! as we were brand new in different fro'm matter? If so, can dents as well as to the instructor, those days. matter be created from them? Or for they are interested in what he Sun Shines Often can they evolve out of matter? is saying, and he is no·t bored with Are the principles of the Chris-. repeating the same lectures for fif- So you can understand why I was tian religion, which affect the mind teen or twenty years. attracted to Arkansas for February and spirit of man, a direct creation ---o---- and March. But in spite of--, of the super spirit? Or did they Geology Depa.I·tment to OffeJ• this is a lovely state, the sun shines evolve from a religion that ante- a!mQ;St every day, all around are dated Christianity? If so, did not St>w Course for E.E. Studt>nts far-stretching forests of pine and religion as such have a beginning oak; mountains look down on the at .some remote period of man's ex- little city, and the forsythia, cro- istence? Did it evolve out of physi-. cuses, and dandelions are in bloom. cal matter? The Geology Department is now other than man haveE of 1 feering a counse open to Senior Hot Springs is a town <if parar Do animals d'Oxes, it has 19,000 inhabitants and a religion? ctrical Engineering students. 22,000 health-tourists-in a good ----o---- Thirteen E. E. Seniors valued this course so much that they petitioned Conference on Govervment in the administration to permit them sea.son (that is• 22,000 here at one time), it is dry yet soakin.g. wet, it is highly religious, and at the same time very simple. to take it. Mr. Robert Serrell, of the Inter- national General Electric Company and president of the l·ocal Al1iance Francalse, will ,be the principal speaker at the regular meeting of the French Cltvb at eight o'clock tonight at Silliman Hall. Mr. Serrell, who also takes part in the French productions of the Civic Playhouse, will relate some of .his adventures in mountain climbing. The talk will be illus- trated. Schubert Club Will ·Give Bach Number Miss Mary Becker to Assist Men's Chorus in Mid-season Concert Thursday Evening To date fifty sub-freshmen from New York, Connecticut, and New Jersey have accepted an invitation extended to them by the college to spend this week-end at Union. The headmasters of the prepara- tory schools have also been invited. Utica Country Day School will be represented •by Mr. Kleins;pehm, their Senior Master; and Mr. Wal- ter Olson, Headmaster of Irving School at Tarrytown. A few slight changes have been made in the program planned for the week-end. At 1:15 p. m. F1riday a trolley will leave St. John's Church for the \House of Magic\ at the General Electric Company. From there they will go and inspect The Schubert Club, men's chorus the American Locomotive worke. under the direction of Dr. Elmer A. The sub-freshmen will return to the Tidmarsh, will g·ive its mid-season campus at about 4:30 and: go concert Thursday evening at eight through the College laboratories. At o'clock in the Memorial Chapel. eight o'•clock Presidentr-elect Fox Miss Mary Becker, violinist, will be will give the third Spencer lecture. the guest artist. Miss Becker p!a:.yed with the The swimming meet with Cornell in Schubert Club last year. In Janu- the Foote Memorial Pool is at the ary she was well received as the same time. guest artist of the Troy Vocal Club Saturday morning in Daily As- in their various appearances. Dr. sembly Dr. Ellery will deliver a Tidmarsh is also director of the message of greeting, and Mr. Troy Vocal Club. Miss Becker's Bronner will speak on the histo·ry accompanists will be Mr. James of the college. In .the afternoon the Early at the pian.o, and Mr. J.oseph sub-freshmen have been invited to Derrick at the organ. Mr. Derrick attend a rehearsel of O'Neill's \The is the head of the Schenectady Hairy Ape'' •by the Mountebanks. Conservatory of M·usic. At 3 o'clock Union will meet the The program for Thursday eve- Williams' swordsmen. Saturday eve- ning includes the works of some of ning prior to the varsity basketball the greatest masters music has game with R. P. I. the Neutrals will kno:wn such as Bach, Mendelssohn, play the Phi Gamma Delta frater- Haydn and Saint-saens. nity. Grant Us to Do With Zeal. ... Bach All und•ergraduates are groom· She Never Told Her Love ... Haydn ing themselves and their residence Waken, Lords and Ladies Gay.... ·for this occasion. The Secretary of- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mendelssohn flees hopes that the fraternities will Employment Bureau Found Work fo1· 64 Students Wh() Need Financial Assistance Every Division Benefits Varied Types ()f Work Covered In Emergency Relief Grant The Federal· Emergency Relief Alministration's plan to aid neec1y college students will include those of Union, it was announced today by Dean Charles F, F. Garis, He said that Miss Frances Travi.s, d'i rector of the Union College Student Employment Bureau in his office, has found employment for 64 needy students who will be !Paid from fed eral funds. Dean Garis pointed out that the students given work under the FERA were only those who needed work to earn funds with whkh to pay their college expenses and wil:J.o could not .be placed in other jobs. Benefit College and Student The work assigned to the men to d!o will not only benefit them but will also be of great value to the college. The students have been as- signed clerical and biliogrephic work for the !Drofessors in the \arts\ ·divisions, and also laboratory work in the science division.s. In ad!dition the ()Oilege offices will have student help, and student civil engineers will aid the bursar-eng! neer to make a new survey of the campus grounds. Still other stu dents have been assigned wo.rk in keeping the grounds and buildings in good shape. All the jobs are \created work,' Dean Garis declared. Some of the jobs were once filled with regular employees, but these have shwe been curtailed because of retrench ments. The jobs, although import ant to the college, could not be paid for without federal funds at the present time. Work Until Commencement The students will be -given work so that they may earn no less than $10 and not more than $20 per month. The rate for March will be 35 cents· per hour. Dean Garis be- lieved there will be sufficient fed era! funds to allow the .boys to work until Commencement. The positions created under the FERA grant follows: Division of Language and Literatur~cient clru>sics 1; modern languages 1 English 4; Division of Social Stud ies-philosorphy 2; political science 2; economics 3; history 3; Division of Mathematics and Science-bioi ogy 3; chemistry 5; geology 2 mathematics 1; ohysics 3; psycho! ogy 4; Division of Engineering electrical engineering 4; dvil engi neering 2; Bursar-Engineer's office -surveying 6; office 1; college li brary 4; graduate council 1; news bureau 2; building and grounds 10. During my first week here the log~ n~wspape:r~> ®rr.i.ed. on. a lively discussion as to whether the Chil- d:ren of Israel got across .the Red Sea on an excessively low tide, or whether the Lord made a clean cut canal for them through the waters. The Naturalists were drowned, the Canalists ultimately triumphant. . Business Scheduled Friday The course is essentially the same one that the Junior Civil Engineer- --- ipg ~tucl·en~ ,~e taking at the pres~ Shadow Barge ............... Crosse not defeat the purpose of the week- _. At the Angelus ................ Stair end by doing any obvious rushing. Garis Announces College Next week a tremendous furor was got up about Methuselah, Did he die before the flood or after the flood>? That was a difficult prob- lem because you see ·if he clied after :the flood, he'd have to die twice. On the other hand to work in 969 years of life before the flood was none too easy. However, one of the pro- ·tagonists reached !B. very happy S'Olution,Methuselah died on the very day of the flood. Noah must have heaved a sigh O'f relief, for it would have been difficult to exclude such an old friend: from the Ark. I w1sh you would get Dr. Berg- to apply Operative Calculus or Ve~tor Analysis to the mathematics of this problem, for I'm n•ot altogether cozy in my min·d ove!' the H<>t Springs solution. As they SlaY -about the roads when they're Icy out here, -it's too slick. Sinful Amusement Now in contrast to this truly re- ligious discussion, .there is also a .great deal of sinful amusement go- ing on. Every one ga=boles here, .and the toQwn is full of slot ma- ()hines and roulette w.heels. Arkan- sas is dll:'y, lbut the tbootlegger Is abroad: in the Iand and increases -and multiplies. The sheriff makes intermittent raict.s- on slot machin:es; these disap!Pear to the ·cellar for a day or two and are then returned to their rightful place. Everyone seems to approve of betting and (Continued on Page 3) There will he a Conference on ent time. It in•cludes a formal treat- Government and Business at Wil- ment of land forms and physical Iiams Coilege Friday afternoon forces that produce them. During through Saturday evening. The the la.boratory period twenty rodt program consists of general srs- making minerals will be identified. sions, discussi?ns and· a d_ance c, I l()gether with common rock types. Saturday evenm.g. All Urilon stt In the spring the class expects to dents are invited to attend. Thl take several field trips to near•by delegate's fee of $2.75 covers eve!~· (places whe1 e geological data can be thing except transportation. secured. ---------------------- Reduction in High School Budgets May Hurt Preparation for College By S. RALPH COHEN With worries enough over their many so-called \cultural\ courses, own expenditures, the colleges are and by the dismissal 1Jf supervisors now faced with the problem of and \special\ teachers, school ex- what the high schools are spend- j}encLitures have been materiallv re- ing. During the last few years d'ltced, but the revival of large there has 'been an enormous de- classes and reP,uctions in equipment crease in the amounts spent by and supplies must affect the quality city and county governments for of preparation given the individual education, -an·d accord·ing to United student. States Commissioner of Education Statistics compiled by the Depart- George F. :Zook, there is reason to ment of the Interior from surveys believe that ·this will in some way by the Federal Ofnce of Education affect the preparation. afforded the show that 96 per cent of the Amer- individual who plans to enter a ican cities covered had effected college. s·ome sort of economy, resulting in Commissioner Zook declares that some cases to as much as a 41 per \schools have undertaken. heroic cent of the expenditure for 1932. measures to adapt themselves to The average, however, was 22 per the exigencies of the ·depreesion. CE'nt of the figure for that year. Whether these red:uctions represent While ed:ucation in 1932 cost as economies or ·\VIhether they repre- much as $113:03, the amount neec1ed sent a reduction in the services in 1933 was only $87.60. An idea of which sch·ools shoUld render to exactly how low this figure Is may children is an open: question. , , . be gained from a comparison with These red11ctions represent in a costs in 1924, a comparatively nor- part a lowering of the standards of mal year, which shows· that the education in .American cities.\ amounts spent are less· than that To •be sure, by the elimination of y-ea.r or any yeal' thereafter. The Old Woman .......... Roberton o White Horses of the Sea .... Warren J . R d Ed. • To Be Run on year Basis Fallen Leaf .................. Logan UniOrS . ea ItOnafs, . . ;Howdy Do Mis' Springtime .. Guion News, Spol'ts Extensively Blind Plouglunan ............ Clarke The Schubert Club Concerto in D minor ... 'Saint Saens Sicillienne and Rigan.don, Francoeur Habanera ................... Ravel Cossack . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kroll Melodie ..................... Gluck Scene de Ia Cszardas ........ Hubay Miss Becker ~ in the ·pas.t students will be ad- mitted! for seventy-five cents. CALENDAR Tonight Chess Club meeting, Kappa Nu House, 8:00p.m. Meeting of the French and Ger- man Clubs, Silliman Hall, 7:30 p.m. A. S. C. E. meeting, Civil Engi- neering Building, 7:30 p. m. Philatelic Club meeting, Exhibi- tion, Geology laboratory, 8:00 p.m. Tomorrow Daily Assembly, Herbert Haus- ser, '34, \The Undergraduate and Religion. YMCA Forum, Dr. Edward El- lery, \Science and Religion,\ Old Qhapel, 8:00 p. m. Glee Club rehearsal, Hanna Hall, 3:30 .p.m. College Orchestra Rehearsal, Silliman Hall, 7:30p.m. Thursday Schubert Club Concert, Mem- orial Chapel, 8:00 p. m. Fdday Sub-Freshman weelt-end starts. The members of the junior class rate ordinary college ne:ws, inter- collegiate sports and editorials one, two, three in their preference, ac- cording to the poll conducted in Daily Assembly Wednesday, The results of the poll in the senior class showed these three divisions of The Concordiensis in the same ordel' a.s was published in Fri·day's issue. One of the main differences in the results of the senior and junior classes shows that the class of 1935 reads the college Wstory features more widely than do the seniors. ·. These college history features, along with Notes on Our Contemporaries and intramural sports follow edi- torials very closely and in turn are followed lby In The Mail and: Week's Best Editorial. Of the features appearing on the . editorial page, the juniors rate Random Observations highest, closely followed ·by FarragQ and Middlesex Notes. Many courses of study were criti- cized for a varying number of rea- sons. .Most of the class understands the. Union Plan and very few are doubtful as to its probable success. 'I'he editorial policy of The Con- cordiensis was criticized both favor- ably and otherwise and many help- ful suggestions were received:. Union will be operated on a year basis, starting next September, with scholarship reports issued four times during the year, it was an- nounced this morning by Dean Charles F. F. Garis. All courses, except those in certain technical subjects, will be given as year courses, with frequent tests and a final examination at the end of the year. Under the new operation of the college, three ad-interim scholar- ship reports will be issued during the year, on approximately the fol- lowing dates: November 15, Febru- ary 1, and April 15, besides a final report at the end of the year. Eligibility for extra-curricular activities will be regulated by these reports, and a student may be dropped from any course at the date of their issuance, upon a rec- ommendation from the professor in charge of the field concerned. Short courses in technical sub- jects, however, will be given for a stated number of weeks, with final examinations at the end of their periods. ---0---- PIDLATELIC CLUB EXHIBIT The Philatelic Club Is planning an exhibition and following this a social hour. The exhibit is unique in that a Schenectady man, whose collection lately won third prize in an exposition in New York City, will show part of his collection.

.. , THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1934 ..... F A R R A ; o . · ~~~~ ~~;1c = . 7 1· Things that puzzte: Why the make the trip worth while, there is Ran'kine Hinm.:;m Plan tur the Intellectual Actvance-jJ.u.ar•y or Scot!and. For you repro-. ~========;,;;;;;====~ ment of 't outh ju::;t prev-ious to lhe bate:o·,. there is Sallor .Bewru·e. · appointment of a new .l:'resident'i ::;nong drama, bien in Whit,e . .l:'t'ob-.' Two years· ag.o the S'chubert Club ~v ny ttan::;cri·pt::; of one':o coUege lem trage.cty, ureen nay '!'l·ee. Prob- ·Under lJr 'l'idniarsh s ctireutwn .sang record are pnced at $'1..00 per eacl~ lem corneay, NQ J.lJ.ore .Lames. An Mentor · C!'osses .. 1'he ::;nauow ;:vne~ stamps ~re seUmg at, 3c: the eatt~q:ll;ake coul~:t g?t you seats' .t>az·ge;\ as .th·e votces. rose and: !ell uled do the fraternities give 'dances. \I Thus, for a period of four months there \ are no dances with the exception of very ,...--..-.-------..-.,.-------------.·occasional Saturday night pal\ties held by . fmtemities after basketball g·ames which ·• are the exception rather than the rule. There is a:bsolutel.Y no reason \vhy the undergrad~ nate body should commit itself to such a lull in their social lives. Thel'e is a suf,flcient {fulltfJ) \A Causa Peraa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED 1876 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as S.econd Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a COJ?Y; $3;00 a yeal'; delivere·d an~where in the Umted States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus: Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address· all business communi·cations to Arthur J. Katzber.g, Kappa Nu House, Union 9oll~ge, Schenectady, N. Y. All othe!-' eom!Oumcauons to George R. Cory, Jr., Ps1 UpBllon House, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD George R. ·Cory, Jr .••••..••..... Editor-in\Chief Arthur J. Katzbex·g .••....•.. Business Manager C. William Huntley ........... Managing ~ditor Robert H. Smith ...•.......•...•.. News Edrtor Aruold J. Friedman .............. Sports ~d~tor Prince E. Oleson ....•...•....... Feature Editor .Morton ·c. Stewart .•...... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. Woolman D. Moulton C. Hathaway M. Berger ~ SOPHOMORE BOARD J . .Anderson R. North A. H. Stevenson v. Gilbert C. Reid, Jr. V. Trumbull Issue Editor ••••• Clemens F. Hathaway Asst. Issue Editor .. Vedder lVl. Gilbert TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1934 cleriCal w0rk gag 1:0 g0od. A cool to AS J. nousanus t;heel. 11 anybody in rhythmic swell as ·bursts ot color uoll~~· s . worth for e~':h re~ord?, Of should be. sane enough to try . the: .shot forth only t~ be lost in bar ely com::;e, tf the pollcy 1s to drscourage opera, .be sure to chec_K t~e seat:o on audible pianrssimo; the srlence of 1'\Taduate :ochool applrca;uon~. thrs tne chart wbea buymg, the ol<.l · the deep; we wondete~ at tne amaz- ~.evy ~~. u?der.standaDie; rt ~erta;nly ~-orseshoe mal!.es the v1ew fro_:n t~=. ing res.ponsi veness with which tne number of dances given the year around serves tts pmpose, wanted. ~~a~ons side royvs dam uncomfottable , clu'b enabled Dr. '.l'idroarsh to weave why ~·~~ would not be . sutt~c,rent. cramps m your neck and aH that. . a tonal and rhyt~ric structure of which, if s-paced at more regular intervals, Otnerwrse, the wh?le thmg stands * * * orchestral quality. !Lt was the finest . oelf-c<mdemned as. a lousy racket. sin:gmg we have •ever heard tne could !rive the students a well-rounde-d social • * * Speaking of weLl-trained bands, - - there's Meyer Davis. The Brooklyn 'IJlUD ao, even superior, in our mind In the stage-hit No More Ladies J · L b 1 'at least, to ;their rendibon of the season. Melvyn Douglas plays the U:bertine- umor eague went ' enevo ent t,;oronatio·n Scene from \!::>oris Gou- misogamist who marries his last again, this time for Little Italy-a roun. o.\ Whether or not the status of Sophomore playtning with the remark: \I'm Dinner Dance was the form of said j ust begmning to get the better of ...,enefit. The .tickets ($5 per) were Sclmbert Club Concert my will~power.\ pleasmg evening -long dinne1·, T-hursday evening .the Schuberts Soiree remains as it now stands is up to the donaLed, so we con:descended. Vet·y student body itself. The reasons given for • * * choice of liqueurs, and cbnsidetable :wHl again sing thrs tone poem of Take a shot at John Erskin<l'S d~ndng to the above-mentioned the sea, written in memory of the · its cancellation from the calendat· three ye·l::l:l'S new venture into modern youth- lv.leyer Davis. Only drawback:-too composer's father after hts vessel b'.achelor of Arts. First installment many lights on the dance floor. Al- had disappeared with all on board, ago were eCOllOlllic, chiefly evidenced by the in Tribune Magazine last Sunday. way::; disconcerting. \one of tne mysteries of the .sea.\ H.eads well and ring::; true for a col- * * * The very OIPenmg is mysterious and depression. Economic theorists have ,pointed lege tale: meet Alec, the fr eshma·n compellmg, with the only moving who did. Remarkable guy, even Thomas Haruy: a one stanza ef- .part ·in the baritone.; thls theme, out to the populace of the world many tirnes for Columbia. fort frmm Winter Words .which moves only in half steps, is * * Christmas: 1 92 4 'later taken U·p by the other parts. in the past four years that the only way to We were doing an Automat after 'Through<Jut the number the har- Men in White. ln went the nickels \Peace upon earth!\ was said. We .mony changes chromatically. In bring back recovery if for the people to spend. and out came the bun, a swell one sing it, the accompaniment scale passages, with pecans and an ooze of frost- And pay a miHion priests to bring then thundering cho·rdll actd a sin- College students are prone to spending money ing. She lodged it on a book and it. · ister effect. 'J:ne mus·ic grows in purse which lay in my tray, then After two thousand years of mass intensity as the doome·d shrp draws and like to do it. when they can get personal things began to roar. The plate We've got as far as poison gas. near; it passes beyond, into the slid, I shi.fted to check it, spilled * • * deep, and a very quiet passage enjoyment out of doing so. hot chocolate all over the tray, and · brings the work to. an end with a missed the damn thing altogether. Nothing succeeds like excess. A suggestion of \crossing the bar.\ \Vhy not bring back soiree--cextainly The plate halved neatly on the floor stitch in time gathers no moss. and the poor bun sat nalted and Don't cross your bridges before Guest Artist Is Young · . there is sufficient interim between the dates forlorn in the grimey grime. After they're hatched. And never forget The guest artist, Miss Mary the burn wore off our ears, we that in the spring a young man's Becker, 1 s a very young but un- of the soiree and the Junior Prom for th.e woke up to the rare slapstick we'd fancy lightly turns to what a usually talented violinist. on her thrown for the mob. Only then did woman thinks about all winter undergraduates of Union to save enough the laughs come free and easy. But long. first appearance with the Schubert those two nickels ... gee. * * * Club last year we commented: \Miss funds in order to attend both functions. 01', • • • Becker's sympa,thetic temperaJment, . . , Mi:os Marie Dre::;sler on the movie youthful virility, and sureness of on the other hand, if there is too much ad- , :She Loves._ Me N~t-sc::e 1 t on the i crisi::;: \The picture producers used execution mtacned the work of the Glee Club tnp_. yo~:se bords. $.~5 for to sit in their swivel chairs and chorus. We enjoyed: her most in versity toward such a move at the present Saturday Matmee rf you get tickets think they had the world by the the more quiet numbers, which she soon enough; the sh?w's equally tail; then the talkies came and the played with full-, <~inging tones of the sev-eral fraternities at Union could easily good _from any se3;t m the t:ousei tail broke off. Now they're running Deautiful quality .... Requued of all r:efmed co!lepa;es. around with the tail in .their hands \The refreshing, just slightly arrange to hold their dances during the vdn~ Money refunded If not satrsfled. trying to catch the animal.\ Ex- frivolous, .but extremely taxing * * * • planation for engineers and scien- scherzo p·ortion was played with a teras well as during the fall and the spring, For those who really want to I tists: the \animai\ is the public. delicacy of runs and: trrlls in har- monics that was only enhanced bY TAKE YOUR CHOICE With this issue of The Concordiensis and in that way reduce the length of the in- f?J~JL~ ~..ill~I~JIC~Jlii( loclts of hair from her friends. ~~:a~:::~~~~ _,,and ease of their active social period. t N t 0 0 H Female Flatte:y... • Mr. Joseph Derrick, organist, and I 0 e s n u r ~~ Mr. James Early, pianist, will ac- •ro THE INITIATE 1:· 0 n t e m p 0 r a r I e s I vVilliams team at Williams, and the I~~ C . ~ Smith College debaters met a company the Cl·ub. ~ jj ~~~~~h ~~ ra1~ns~reg~te~~~anl ~Jl[~I~JIC~I'\&~rnr:~l~lC~ young lady debater was found who that body in Ticonderoga last Oct- ev.ery number will contain comment by stu .. dents about celiain courses. Only courses that are popular, and in the opinion of the staff are valuable will be discussed. It is very true that every good course will not be discussed. It is impossible for us to locate all the good courses due to in~ ~lbility to find students who are taking cer- tam subjects. \Ve can, however, with very little difficulty, cover the entire division of social studies and the division of language Th . t k d t f h en ober, when he was re-elected for lS pas wee en a gTea many res m Educate Yourself would be frank, and she was asked the fourth successive term. lie will why she took up debating. She re- h were initiated into the ma.ny national fra- \Movies are potentially the great- plied that she wanted to travel bring to Union College a eritage e..st force in the country today,\ ac- around to different colleges, and of learning and culture, and a These men cording to Profess·or H. B. English above all, meet some attractive sympathetic understanding of the o.f Ohio State University. boys. Williams men felt quite grati- neeas and aspirations of the sons ternities on the college campus. • * * fled when she made a subtle remark of the western border. Discontented Cows? that theirs was the best college she -Schenectady Union-Star are the ones who have been chosen to carry on a tradition as old as that of the fraternity A milk truck ran away from its had as yet visited. Their chests driver on the campus of the College were beginning to swell when she of St. Thomas in St. Paul, and was added, \That's because it's the only captured only after its wheels failed place where they gave us gar- and literature. We cannot guarantee that a student tak- ing a course upon the recommendations of articles written by another student will en- joy them; but we can and do guarantee that every course discussed has been thoroughly investigated. Although the articles will be written as a general rule by one student, we will have additional comment to back up his statements. There are a few courses in these two divisions that are dull to say the least. Ac~ cording to our present plans, we intend ~im~ ply to ignore them. Students will, of course, be familiar with all the courses offered in to keep It going on a long stretch denias.'' * ;ji: * of ice. * • Utopia? The end of capitalistic economics and government was predicted by George E. Frazer, Chicago finan- cier, in an address at the University of Iowa. • .. * Page Graduate Council Notice in The Lafayette-Please send all information regarding lost alumni to the Alumni Seeretary. * * * Surprise! into which they were inducted. They are the men who must, eventually, be responsible for the life of their particular chapter. The order is a large one. These men must not merely be satisfied with using their various chapters as a playground, a place in which to sit four years for the purpose of staring Is Your Child a Genius? into the flames of a log fire and engaging in bull-sessions, a sle6'J.)ing and eating hall which A method of ·detecting the genius, or lack of it, in a person at early childhood has ·been devised by Pro- fessor W. F. Dearborn, of Harvard Wesleyan students, who had an idea that Gertrude Stein was not all of one mind when she wrote \Four Saints in Three Acts,'' were sur- prised when one of the faculty who had so f.ar agreed with them be- came enthusiastic over it as a great satire. He stated that \Any person who has seen operas should see it, for in it are to 'be found, delight- fully caricatured, all the foolish, unconvincing artificial .things that make .parts of the works of Bellini, Donizettu, Rossini, and Co., causes for squirmirug on the part of the University. * * * will outlive its usefulness to the man when the four years of his college education are Boon to Dubs! The weekly newspaper of Mon~ tana State College has org.anized a \dating\ bureau to aid lonely stags and wall-flo.wer co-eds. brought to a conclusion. No! Fraternities mus.t mean far more than that to the initiate. True, the organ- izations are a part of the college life, but in the ft·aternity are made contacts and friend- ships that will last through life. If a frater~ * * * The Nasty Men! The teachern of the schools throughout the country are the scape goats of the depression re- · formists, President George Norton, of the University of Colorado, de- clan~d recently. average listener.\ s. R. c. -Associated Collegiate Press Week's Best Editorials UNION'S NEW PRESIDENT Election of a new president of Union t;ollege recalls one who for sixty-two years filled that office, Dr. Eliphalet Nott. With only a few months of college training him• self, he became one of the greatest college presidents of his long day, When he took charge (in 1804) the college had but few students, its buildings were unfinished, its funds exhausted, its prospects gloomy, but he made it a \rival of Harvard and Yale.\ A graceful orator, whose sermon on the death of Alexander Hamilton is still remembered, an executive of rare abilities and an inventor of note-be obtained no less than thirty patents-he is a permanent part of the institution. In recent years Charles Alexander Richmond found it in straits and set it on its upward way again, and Franlt Parker Day, who led a Nova Scotia batallion in the war became its gallant leader advancing even in the face of the most difficult of times, till ill health compelled his retirement. nity is to mean anything to its member, it * * * Give 'im de Wolks! UNION'S TWEFl'll PRESIDENT the division when the time comes to choose must become ingrained in him, so that on electives for next year. The courses that the occasion of his graduation it shall not be we do not mention in these two divisions will A dictionary of underworld slang has been compiled by Professor D. W. Maurer, of Ohio State Univel·- sity. \ * * For its twefth president Union College went to Columbia Univers- ity and chose a scholarly historian, a son of the Empire State, and a man eminent in his field, Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox. Professor Dixon Ryan Fox sue~ ceed.s him as president. He has been active for years in keeping the present mindful of the past of America, and especially of fuis State. Under the auspices of the New York Historical Association, of which he is president, a five-vol- ume history of the State is appear- ing, \the first comprehensive and authoritative history of New York as a unit from the early days of the Indian to the present time.'' He has done much to promote interest of local communities in their early days. He hao;; also had a joint part in editing an admirable series of twelve volumes on the \History of American Life.\ dropped from the book of his memory. A fraternity can truly prove valuabl(\ after Watch Yom- Pituitary Glands Dr. Her'bert M. Evans, of the University of California, claims to have deveJo.ped a means of control- ling the growth of human beings. valuable or well-taught. Just before elective choosing week The Concordiensis will issue a supplement con- taining all the articles for the information of those who wish to make use of this method of finding out what the good courses are. These articles will include not only the subject matter of the courses in question, but will further describe the per.sonality of the instructor. FOR MORE SOCIAL ACTIVITY The prolonged 'temporary' abolishment of the Sophomore Soiree has considerably lengthened the period of social inactivity on the campus. Interfraternity night in No- vember formally closes the fall season and not untU the middle of March when the second interfraternity night of the year is sched- graduation. This is one of its most impor- tant aspects. And for this reason the fra~ ternity must livE, long after the graduation of the men who are this week being initiated. It has been said that college fraternities are outliving their usefulness. This is not so. Et cannot be denied, however, that they must progress. Their advance must be hand in hand with the progress of colle·ge education. A static fraternity is a useless and valueless organization. So to the initiate we say-make every effort to uphold the tradition of your frater- nity. Aid it in its progress. Keep it moving, advancing. And, in later years, you will see that your work ha:s not gone for naught. And, finally, we say to the initiates-con- gratulations upon this, the occasion of your induction into your fraternity, and ev€ry success in your work with it! * * * Angelic Alumni One of the most popular voca- tions of graduates of the University of Texas is aviation, a recent report indicates, and this is particularly true of the \ex\ student. * *' * Jealousy? A committee of the faculty of the University of Wisconsin has defin- itely put a ban on any future \·beauty contests\ conducted by stu- dent organizations. * * * Such as What? \The solution of our present edu- cational problems is to eliminate those elements of organizati·on and procedure,'' Dean F. E. Henzlik of the University of Nebraska, stated recently. * * * More High Boots There is· an increasing demaud for mechanical engineers to fill im- portant posts in industry, the engi- neering dean of Pennsylvania State College reported recently. Already honored by Union wifu a degree in 1931, Dr. Fox is no stranger in Schenectady. He has given addresses here on historical subjects on several occasions, the most noteworthy perhaps in 193i when the one hund!redth annivers- ary of the firs't railroad passenger train was observed by the Schenec- tady Chamber of Commerce, and among a number of speakers he shone with a scholarly paper on the post roads of New Yorlt State. Union College is fortunate in se- curing so eminent a scholar to car- ry on its traditions. He is of the lineage and stock of New York, having been born at Potsdam where, like all aspiring PO'tsdamers, he took his first draught of higher education at that fount of learning, the Potsdam Normal School, as- cending thence by even strides to the eminence of the chair of history at Columbia University. Steeped in the history of the Empire State, he knows its people and their back- ground. Fittingly, he is head of the pioneer college west of the Hud- son which for almost a hundred years has attracted to its doors the boys of this region. * * * Wigs Refurbished A co-ed at Boston University brus adopted a new hobby; she collects As president of the New York State Historical So'ciety, Dr. Fox presided at the annual meeting of It is of interest to hear this his- torical scholar say, even in 1931 and with certitude, in answer to the question \Are we better than our ancestors?\ that \conditions are much better at present than a cen~ .tury ago,\ noting especially the im- provement in the status of women, the establishment of better schools, mDre humane methods· of handling the insane, lower infant mortality and the rise of leisure. He is no despairing prophet sitting under a juniper tree. He recognizes the newspaper as an agency that has helped \ to dissolve prejudice and bring better understanding and tolerance in the world today.\ Pro- fessor Fox. knows the past; he has the qualities of what Professor Gid- dings called \the old breed,\ but he is also abreast of history in the present tense and gives promise that t'he new days of this coilege will be as useful .to \The Union\ as were the old. -New York Times r

e d a r as of he of est art of of the our are im- no a the has and and has Gid- but the THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1934 Three C . P-.. h • the mountains, and on: the money Union Plan Avoids SchenectadyGazetteWrltesonChoice · ayert. E.•:uf? ~SI~es Ex-President Day Wdtes f:£\i~ea~:ia~~~h~o~!~~n~hce~~~~ Many Difficulties O.fn . ...-. Dixon. Fox as· Pres.id.ent.:.elect Faith In DlVIDity Students from Arkansas. i~ei~~~cih~e;~~dsla~sige~i~r~~ II' --- waters; centuri'es ago DeSoto came (Continued fvom Page 1) 'far inland to wash in these healing It wm Pr.·event Rather Tlt1l!n Union's New !~resident educators elsewhere; that he will ·Four Types of Weaknesses gambling. Let me relate a dome.s- w&ters. One side of Main Street is Not only the a:Iumni and under- make· new friend~ for the college; B Tu d S tic scene tha:t iHustrates this point, occupied 'by splendid bath houses; Co ·. llD•teract the Tend·ency,.gr·adu· a·tes·.,f Ul1I'on· Colleg·e, but the· and that his efforts will strengthen May, e. rne Into . trong You know I don't like gambling the other side cons-ists of shops~ d 0 • ' t' Schenectadtans generally, will wish it financia:ljy. In this he wilJ. have. Chat:a:cter by :Faith in God However, out here I should hay,~ full of bath towels, bathing sllppers, Towar Vel'•Speciahza ·Ion . the new presic(ent of tl;le venerable the ·cooperation of the alumni body l,leen very lonely had I not been ab'le. -soap, drinking cups, Souven·irs and Editor's Note: The following is one of a series. of letters by members of the :faculty con- ce-rnfug the liew Union Plan of educatioJ;l which will go into effect in September. The 'let- ters were wi'itten to Dr. Ellery who has given The ·Concordien- sis pe•·mlssion to pi'Int them. institution, Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, and of our citizens·. --- to play bridge at night. I agreed cheap jewelry. Our motto Is \We Success l ·n ·hi's undertakl'ng., Under. Union has a Iong and honorable. . h . . 1 after a while to play at the very bathe the world, especially Pales- his direction we look for a continu- recor ; we 00 1: or 1 ·s con muance. minim-um, namely a fortieth 6f a .: n · · or · ·e .,., d I 1 f •t t' \·Fa1t m God Is t 1e supreme ti e\ F the J ws are a· \'\'se pea- ance of the progress that has been, ~Schenectady Gazette. thing in the Hfe of a young man,\ cent a point. After all ho one can ple; the Gentiles hobble about on marked since those dark .days of · said Dr. Samuel McCrea Cavert, gain or lose much at such a rate. g~~e: h~~~ t~};i&S:• ,;>h~1.e ~e.!~': th ·e ·g·os an· d .early -i-n this cen<tury, The following article by the pres- General Secretary of the FederaJ. I 1 · b 'd · ht at J 'd f th U · 't f th St t was P ·aymg · n .ge one mg . : s•tiH well to preaerve their health. W hen' many f. eared 'Old Union 1 ent 0 e · mversi Y 0 · e a e Cou·nci'i of the Ch-urches of Ch·I'l.Gt the fine home of a leadi'ng doctor in might not be able to survive. of New Yorl{ and State Commis- Hot Springs. About eleven thirty Wel.J, dear boys, I ·must close. I . 1 h tl sioner of Education appeared in in America in chapel' services Sun- the door opened and in came a have given a rather 'lurid picture of In Its eav Y 1 yeuar~, w en ::1e naf- the yesterday morning issue of the day. long -gangling youth, named George, Hot Spring-s and you will' have to tion was smalb, . n~ont. v-at~ oneB. ·ot Schenectady Gazette: T k' h the. son of the house. Whereupo_ll . subtract a little bec<tuse you knO'W its Iargest and :lel,;t InsdltUllons ... u. The selection of Dr. Di:&on Fox as a I•ng is text from the phra5e the follo·wing conversation took . I have sorb:e flair fur writing and just as one VI' a:ge eve ops Into .president of Union C01Jege and \Out of weakness were made place: sGmetim,es my pen runs away with a great ·city and another .grows only chanceHor of Union University is strong'• Dr. Cavert pointed out that me. After aU the peQJple in Hot Workers in t:ne field of philoso· ;;lowly a:nd becomes noted for other' an. admi·rable one. He is an out- Mother: Where have you ·been, Spvings are exceedingly kind: and phy are constantly ooncerned with things rather than size, so it came standing scholar and writer in the there were four types of weak- Geor.ge? hospitable, and there is mucb,,gaiety issues which overlap the &rtifici&l into what is known today as the field of history and has been a most nesses, physical-, mental, financial George: Oh, Mother, I've had the ·and lau~hter. Hard work, com- 'boundaries set up by the depart . \'small college\ group. successful professor at Columbia and weakness of charal!ter, .of which most wonderful time! bined w1th lots of fun and laughter, rnentaliz;ing of the curriculum. Con- There is arid doubtless always University. He is a man of great all four might be overcome a,nd Mother: Wherever have you been, make life worth living. Pcmpou.s osequently they welcome educational wH! be a division of sentiment as, culture and pleasing personality, darling? dullness and adOJ::ation of the com- reforms which recognize the under- to whether the big university or, and has a host of friends through- turned. into strength by faith in monplace and so-oo.Ued . efficiency lying unity of knowledge. the little college does the most for out New York. He is at the ideal God. Although the path of Life is m~~~~~e: I've been playing c'rap, are the sins a;gainst the Holy GhQst. In a world of specialists, even the man; just as people disagree as to age for .beginning one's work in strewn with wrecks of men ·who Let me give you J;ny ex-presiden- philosopher has often been forced . whether the best opportunities are. university administration, and have faHed to overcome their weak- Mother: Oh, George, did you win? tial blessing: May the LGrd provide to make a narrow specialty out of in a city like New York, or in a should pmve a vigorous and popular nesses, there 'have been, and s1::iH George: Yes, Mother, I won you wfth plenty of hard work an·d his task by combatting specializa- much sma:ller one. Perhaps the best executive. are, some splendid examples of men twenty-three dol.Jars. at the same time fill your hearts tion. But philosophy, least of all. thing is to say that each has its Personally I have looked with who have -overcome circumstances· Mother (with sparkling eyes:): with laughter. May you all become subjects, s·hould he taught in iso- object in life, the one supplement- great interest and approbation up- and tu-rned them to their advantage. Oh George, how wonderful! Give straight-shooting, courageous men. lation from its neighbors. Depart- ing the work of -the other, and both on the splendid work performed As an exa;mple of a victory of me the money. You see (to us) I'm Yours with aff. ection,. rnentalized philoso.phy has a}ways serving a good purpose. by Dean Ellery during his year as man over physical weakness, Dr. saving George's money for him. (To been, and will always be, a carica-· So the student who goes forth acting president. He too.k charge Cavert told of President Roosevelt George) Here's two dol·lars, darling,, FRANK P. D:A. Y. ture of the true love of wisdom as· from Union, meeting those from. during a trying period, when Union who thirteen years ago was rulmost to carry on with again. · typified by a S0cratetS or a William the big universities, may feel they had serious!\ fallen behind, and .put completely paralyzed. He was mmmmm;mm;mm::m::mmmmmmm;;;mmm:;; J h I k ' f d t t t h' ti l\f Contrast this with the welcome 1 -;; m The Union Plan is a bold step in but he should also feel he has en- the black\ He reorganized the ad- ·but today he is the President of the entering the paternal mansion at :.,,;':.'',;. n,rramura aS e , a · . aomes. have had advantages e · ac ed; the finances of the institution \in orce o recons rue · lG en re 1 e you or I would have received on .:: I .L ·1 8 k tb 11 I\' the direction of emphasizing the joyed advantages denied those from ministration and the curriculum, Vnited States of America. He re- eleven-thirty with the statement L inter-relationships 0f subjects with the greater institutions. and deserves the praise of all for fused to be conquered by circum- that we had been playing crap. m eagues . their neig·hbo·rs, rather than the Dr. Fox, it is to be hoped, and ex- the way in which he stepped into stance and in the errd turned them ... boundaries which d-ivide them. pected will further the objects of I the breach and saved the day. His to his advan.tage through Faith. Dr. WeU, well, I suppose this is rathev· i\\m;;;;m:m:mm:m;;;;;;;;;;;;m;;;;;;mmm:m;u;;;~:;: Whether the move diniinishes the the new \Union Plan\ of education experience and support will be of Cavert continued by presenting the irregular stuff for a late college importance of philoso.phy as a spe- .that has just been instituted and I the greatest value to the new pres- example set by that gallant English- presid·ent to be writing to his boys; cialty -is wholly unimportant. The whicll :s engaging the attention of ident. man, John Brig-ht, w:ho overcame still you might as well know the important tiling is that the plan persona,! grief to smash the Corn facts. makes it possible for a:ll our col- Laws wh~ch were causing so much On March first the races begin Schedule lege teaching to become more truly GARNET NOTICE BASEBALL PRATICE sorrow throughout England. here and I suppose all the touts and Tonight- 7 : 3 0, Delta Upsilon vs. philosophical in chara;cter. It strikes ---- Dr. Cavert concluded .by saying gamblers in this and the nearby Delta Phi. 8:30, Chi Psi vs. Beta at the root of many of our diffi- Fraternity group pictures for The that the way to overcome our weak- states will be gathered in Hot Theta Pi. culties by preventing over-special!- 1935 Garnet will be taken during Battery candidates for varsitv nesses was first to find somethin.g Springs. Everyone is saving up to the two weeks starting March 4 A baseball will begin practice in the bet on the ponies; it is the talk of TQmonow 7•30 Lambda Chi A1 zation rather !.han trying to coun- d f' 't h d I '11 b bl' .h d Gymnasium tomorrow afternoon at greater than ourselves in order to the town. h AI h- p' hi' D It 8 30 .._..._ - teract it after it has developed. It e In! e sc e u e Wl e .pu 16 e · draw ourselves {)Ut and secondly to P a vs. P a e a. : • .o..wp- offers to both faculty and students later. The editors of The Garnet one o'clock. have Faith in God, which alone can No Factol'ies pa Alpha vs. Phi Sigma Delta. b d tures of the members of the junior a unique opportunity to study co- also announced that individual pic- help u.s turn {)Ur weakness into Hot Springs has no. factories or Fr_iday-7:.30, Lamb_dla Ch_i Alpha. operatively broad and unified ' o ~ class are being sent to the engraver Suppol't Om· Adz•e1'1iser.• strength and turn circumstances to manufacturers; the town de,pen;ds vs. Sigma Chi. 8:30, Chi Psi vts. Al- les of knowledge. and any junior who does not have our advantage. on the hot springs that gush out of pha Delta Phi, HAROLD A. LARRABEE, his picture taken by the end of this Professor of Philosophy. weelr will not have his picture in ----oo---- ATHLETIC NOTICES In an effort to provide additional entertainment 'for visiting sub- freshmen on the week-end of March 2-3-4, it has been decided to have the Intramural B-asketball Cham- pionship Teams of the first half meet in a preliminary game to the Union-Rensselaer c·ontest. This game, which will have no bearing on the final outcome of the tournament, being simply an exhi- bition, bring-s together the Neutrals who were undefeated and the Phi Gams who lost but one game. The contest will start at 7:30 p. m. on March 3rd. The above arrangement neces- sitates one change ·being made in the schedule as previously an- nounced, involving the Phi Gam. and Phi Delt teams. Their game, originally scheduled for March 3rd at 4:30 p. m., has been moved back to March 24th at 3:30. In contemplation of a heavy de- mand at the Rensselaer-Union bas- ketball game on March 3rd, it is deemed advisable to issue tickets to students in the same manner as for the football games the past sea- son. This action is made necessary by the limited seating capacity of the gymnasium and also to insure early patrons of choice seats. Auxiliary bleachers will be erected at each end of the court for general ·adm:issions <55c each). All seats on the sides of the court and balcony will be reserved (75c each). The game is scheduled to o;tart at 8:45 p. m. The Garnet. ---Do--- CORNELL TO SWIM GARNET Friday afternoon the varsity swimming team will close its season when it meets the Cornell swim- ming team in Foote Pool here. Last year Union defeated Cornell in the local pool by a score of 44 to 27, and hope to repeat Frida.y. This will be Union's last chance to score a swimming victory this season, the Garnet having lost all of their meets up to date. SHOE REPAIRING Rubber Heels. Half Soles .. Full Soles & Heels . .39c .79c . $2.25 AGENT R. 0. NELSON KAPPA ALPHA LODGE TELEPHONE 4-8122 THE WALLACE CO. Phone 4-7711 Basement :m:m::m::m::m:;:m::::m:m:m:::mmm:::::::::::::::::m::::;m::::m:m:::::::::::;::::::::m:::m:::::m::::::::::::m: I I m m m m m THE CAZETTE PRESS m m m m m m m m PRINTERS m m m m m m m m r m m m ~l:;m;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;m;;;;;;;;;;;;;:mmmmm:;m;;m;;;mmmmm:;m;:;m:mmmm:;;;;:;m:;mm;;m;;;m:;;;m~~! ROSENDALE FLOWER SHOP ScheneCJ!lady'.s Telegraphic Flomrt Flowers of Quality 124 Jay Street Phone 4-01)40 Opp. City Hall HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 4 N.Y. C. Arcade tsaboutas goodasa. tobacco pouch sensible package 10 cents HTHIS Granger package is what I call good common sense. It's just about as good as a tobacco p.ouch. HHere's what I mean-it keeps the tobacco right, and you can fold it up smaller after every pipe. That makes it handy to carry. ••And· I want to put in a word for the tobacco while I'm at it. Granger keeps a pipe clean as a whistle, and man, it is cool. n1 want to say Granger is just about the best tobacco I ever smoked.\ anger Rough Cut 1934, LIGGE'!'r & MYERS ToBAcco Co, the pipe tobacco that's MILD the pipe tobacco that's COOL - filks seem to like i't

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1934 II II Commodity Dollar to Be U;.;. =ln=t=h=e;a;;=M=a=i=l =ll· Subject o~_Ra_dio Debate to a Dollar Base'd on a Fixed Gold Standard.\ Thomas J. Crowley, '34, and Ca.rl E. Olsen, '36, will uphold the affirmative for Union. something else to do, other than· And another: \Middlesex Notes taking some perfectly good artists, are vague, often humorous, because for the traditional ride.\ The lone of misplaced or uninterested sar- protestor: Grievous grammatical casm.\ Many ef us wished to know error in parallel contruction; see. what \uninterested sarcasm\ was. Woolley's, page 93. Union Chess Club Scores Win Over Liddle's 'feam To Editor of The Concordiensi:s: In the last issue of The Concord- iensis, dated February 20, the sec- ond editorial concerning \carpet- baggers\ appeared The first edi- torial, which was contained in one of last fall's issues, characterized all tewn students, and especially those who carry brief cases, as \Carpet-baggers\,-a type of stu- dent who confines his activities to the classroom. On these \carpet- baggers,\ The Concordiensis saddled all the re:sponsibility :tor the :tew shortcomings of Union College, in- cluding poor college spirit, laclt of attendance at football games, and poor turn-outs for ex:tl'a-curricuar activities; accusing them especially of failure to malte any appreciable contribution to college lite. At that time I reahzed the InJUS- tice of the charges against the ··car- pet-baggers\ and particularly the fallaciousness of such broad accu- sations. In the light of the an- nouncement of a revision in the edi- tozial policy of this paper, I thought it best not to criticize. But now I see that this strange classificatien has not been relinquished. 'l'he outstanding mistake in your tirade against \carpet-baggers\ is this: A majority of the town stu- dents are active in extra-curricular work, and that while there is dead- wood among the town students, there is at least an equal amount of inactive matel\ial residing on the campus, paz ticularly in the various fraternity houses. l do not hesitate to admit that there are those town students who contribute nothing to campus life, but I deny the pre- sence of a large enough group of inactives among them to justify their charactterization as \carpet- baggers\. '1 he disregarding of fraternity houses as the lair of inactive stu- dents could easily furnish grounds on which to attaclt The Concordi- ensis for discrimination against neutrals, a policy which is ethically questionable. In future editorials I would sug- gest that you define \carpet-bag- gers\ as those students not inter- ested in college activities, and then find a better descriptive term to substitute for \carpet-baggers\. I am a freshman neutral whose home is not in this state but who does not live on the campus. This criticism is not mine alone but has been voiced by several students with whom I am familiar. I hope that it will be accepted in the friendly spirit in which it is offered. A Freshman Chemist o---- Service Given for New Citizens Thursday Night At a Washington':s birthday cele- bration Thursday night, a service was given for the 144 citizens who were naturalized in Schenectady County during the past year. The service W!J.S arranged to give these new citizens an opportunity to re- nounce their allegiance to their former countries as well as to in- troduce them to the spirit of thi:s country. Dr. W. Leon Godshall was chair- man of the committee in charge of the affair. At the .service, which opened with the sing-ing of \Amer- ica,\ the mayors of Schenectady and Scotia gave addresses of wel- come, and Lewis Neilson and Ex- senator Thomas C. Brown, both naturalized citizens, spoke. The C1vic Players Workshop gave three sketche:s illustrative of the life of Washington followed by a song re- cital by the Nott Terrace choir. The Boy Scout.tl led the oath of allegi- ance to the flag and the service closed with the singing of \ThP Star Spangled Banner.\ Mia Rtchmoad MISS Syr:acusr 200~an~OO i MIDDLESEX NOTES The brilliant minds of the Mid- dlesex che!'tled at the results of the Concordiensis questionnaire espe- ciaHy since the students directed their witty barbs only at the effi- cient compiler and scribe. Unani- mously, except for one lo11e pro- tester, it was decided to dedicate this column to our critics. * * * * * * Wrete another: \Let the author And another mentioned our \sup- of Middlesex Notes write a Win- pes~dly constructive criticism.\ chell col·umn.\ As regards Walter. We ve heard that one before. * .. * Winchell and his ilk, Ben Bernie should be en every night in the week and twice on Sundays. A chief trait of present lew-class be- One freshman surrgested burning ·haviour is the poking ef one's nose dow?- the coll.ege. The ~lagpole into everybody's affairs. To an in- • wen t bu~n, ne1ther . \swellmg our telligent person such conduct is dis- chests) Wlll our tradztwns. tasteful, annoying, and damned dis- gusting. * * * * \ .. The Schenectady Chapter of the American Institute of Bankers will provide the oppos-ition for the var- sity debating team in a 1·adio en- counter Thursday night. The de- bate will be in the way of a pra;c- tice encounter fer the Garnet speak- ers, since it is not a regularly .scheduled meet. The debate will be broadcast by WGY, the Schenec- tady station of the General Elec- tric Company, beginning at 11 o'clock and continuing for one hour. The topic for debate is, \Re- solved: That a Della!' Based on a Commodity Standard is Preferable And another: \Padlock M.S. S.C. preferably with all the occupants Wrote one \I would suggest that inside.\ Tea will be served at four Paul (Ego) Wassmansdorf find o'clock. Unanimous resolution of the Mid- dlesex: One does not go to a shoe- maker Jior an epinion on flute-play- ing. P. W. ONLY THE CENTER LEAVES FOR • 'This picture tells better than words the merit of your Lucky Strike. Luckies use only the center leaves. Not the top leaves, because those are under-devel- oped-not ripe. Not the bottom leaves, because those are inferior in quality- they grow close to the ground and are tough, coarse and always sandy. The center leaves are the mildest leaves, the Lucky Strike preaenta the Metropolitan Opera Company Saturday at 1.50 P. M., Eastern Standard Time, over Ited and Blue Networks of NBC, Luck.y Strike will broadcast the 1\letropolitan Opera Company of New York in the complete Opera, uLuoia di Lammerwoor'' The chess team defeated L. E. Liddle's team :)J'riday night, 5-0, winnnig three games and taking two by default. The Union players were Richard Kelsey, '37, Charles Hinckley, '36 and Milton Berger, '35. This gives Union a score of .615, placing them third in the Schenectady Chess League Tou:vna- ment. Dr. Garlick's team is first with a perfect score and the Tyros second with about .700. The chess teams' only remaining tournament game is Sam Simon, '34 against R. A. Miles, a former state champion. This game will decide the match with 0. Hollingsworth's team, now tied 2-2. • zes finest in quality. These center leaves are cut into long, even strands and are fully packed into each and every Lucky -giving you a cigarette that is always round, firm, completely filled-no loose ends. Is it any wonder that Luckies are so truly mild and smooth? And in addition, you know, .. It's toasted\- for throat protection, for finer taste. NOT the top leaves-they're tmder•dePeloped Always the Finest Tobacco and only the Center Leaves - -the!! are harsh I Cream of the Crop mildest, smoothest tobacco\ NOT the bottom leaves-they're inferior in -quality-coarse and always sandy I I I -~ .l '.

