'.,,_:'1 : .. j ,:; '. ~ ::: ... UM C74 r----~:::::-~ I Council t I •. . Abolishes :t . I ·jt Frosh-Soph. I : Fights 1 : . I l ~--~--------~ uraON COLLEGE LIBRARY ~ : 1 4t : \': 1 1 I J I 1 1 I ......... : .. · · .. ' . . . . . . . .. t 1 r , ,. ' 1 'I • • t 1 1 'I , .• IS r·· .. - ---~ .... ....,..- .. , I Sir Richard · .. ~ Livingstone I Tells Aboat l Q:xford . ~ Students ! , _ _. ...... --.......- ____ _j Vol. LVIII., No. 1 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1934 PRICE FIVE CENTS NOTICES Dr. Fox and Dr. Livingstone Fox, Livingston·e Discuss Fraternity Pledge,' List Reaches 114· As Rushing Ends··. CONCORDIENSIS STAFF NOTiCES There wiU be an •organization : : · meeting of the staff of The Con\ COI'uicn:;is tomoiTow afternoon · in the Publications Office at one · o'clo~k. All liw~e who :;et·vcd on· : the editorial staff last year are requested to be present. Those who are expected to be present . are Clemens Hathaway, J<>seph W·oolman and Milton Berger, seniors John Anderson, Vedder Gilbett, A!be1't Stevenson and VanVechten Trumbull, J1.1niors; · Developement Of Tradition I\itJlpa Nu Houst- Leads Group'j: Plt>dging Ten Men; 'I'hree • Houses Tied With Nine Fewer Pledges Seventeen Fraternities List ; · Cadton Garrison, Nmman Stew~ Newcomer's Names art, Richax•d Passenger, Ralph Cohen, Fred· Fe~dman, Chester The Kappa Nu Fraternity led pledg·ing this past week with ten men. Chi Psi, Delta Phi, and Delta Upsilon followed with nine p!edg,es each. Last year 116 men affiliated tlwnu;elves with :;evcut,•en ftaterni- ties. This year fur the same num- ber of houses the total number pledged bas decreased by two. The list of men pledged to date fol\ lows: Nessen, Milton Bedell, '\Villiam Ferguson and Walter Horstman. * * * GARNET All. members of the sophomore class interested in trying out for the editorship of the 1937 Gar- net are asked to report to George Melinette at the Chi Psi Lodge as soon as possible. Sophomores interested in try- . ing out for the business mana- gership of the yearbook, please report to Burton DeLaclt at the Beta Theta Pi house. Ne\v Ptcsident Explains How Uition Has Been Built On Progressive Tt·adition; Famous Engli~h Edu- cator Tells N eccssity of Changing Old Customs --·-·--- ~ LIVINGSTONE SPEECH · Livingstone Declares World Peace Obtainable Only :by Revamping Man'sThoughts Speaking on \Intemational Rela- tions and the University Student,\ Sir Hi chard said: \I am going to spea:Jt . : . on a bigger issue tl!!m your national re- covery or our economic problems in Europe, 'because it involves not only one country, but all; not only· one nation, but the human race. \Vhat is at stak:e is the future of that vast process, older and greater than the history of any :;Ingle peo- ple- -the future of civilization.\ It is not, he continued, that foreign war may damage Amel'ica, but that 1900 Fox Says U nderstatiding of Past Is Aid to Progressive Planning for Future 'l'he power of tradition was the theme that Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, president, stressed in his address at the opening exercises held in the Memorial Chapel ye::Jterday mum- ing. Dr. Fox pointed out the wealth uf history and tradition to be found in this <'OliPge. He sa·id in part: ThP Chi Psi pledges are: Joseph Rradbmy, Mountain I .nkPs, N. J.: C'linton Brown, Brooldine, Mass.; Honi!'e Hylllf', New Y01k l ity; Ed\ Hon Drape1·, H.ocl1y Mount, N.C.; H. Kf'nwood l>VP, GlovPrsvil!P; l1onnld l<'m·d, Albai1y; l:t'rcdericlt Hawley, Et·idgepm t, Conn.; Robert Madigan, Binghamton; and Albert Wilson, Frosh .. Sophomore .Fights Abolished I years after Christ the dominant foe to international affairs should be f01 ce. \The place is rich in history. On these stones Seward wallted; on that board AI thur· carved his name. The g1 Pat company of the dPad lla ve not gone. Their word and memory arc their present power. Now anu again on occasion,; such a,; thb we fc,•l the pa;ot, the living past. that urgE's m· rt>strains our uaily vuqwsE', makes one way ha! tl, another ea~y. ns though unset•n :;pi!it fin~,;.,ts v..erc entwincu with ours to lead us into paths tJ;mt this histol'ic past has made appropriate. Progress is not made by abject yielding to such guidance, the man- ner of conservatism. But we must learn tradition, the tra:dition of this place, if we are .to have the whole- some help of a long past in making our own progress.\ Mamaroneclt ;all of the class of Student Council Puts End to 1938. Delta Phi has pledged John De- Formal Class Scmps Long Janey, Elmira; '37; and DeWitt A Waning Tradition ls1 own, Rensselaer; George Doyle, C:ohoes; Will ax d Hagadorn, Schenec- · tady; Robert lmrie, Glens Falls; The abolition of the annual fresh- Fted Jung, Gloversville; Kurt H .. man-sophomore fights was an- fkhaefE'r, GlovE': svillP; Marion Van- diver, Elmira; and Langdon Wag\ nounced yesterday by Ralph Sem- oner, Scotia; all of the class of erad, Student Council president. 11.138. Last year the traditional paint fight Photo bY Bob Clark '34 Oxford Still Likes Frosh Enrollment Classical Studies Larger This Year Interest in Greek Thinkers Not Waning, Sir Richard Tells Coneordy Reporte1· Total of 249 First Year Men Register, Exceeding Last Y eai''s Figures by Nine The Delta Upsilon pledges are: was replaced by a tug-of-war con- John Betgstrom, Ridgewood, N. J. ducted under the supervision of the By VAN VECHTEN TRUMBULL Although complete registration Howatd Brown, Ogdensburg; Rich- \Dr. Fox, I'm the xepoxter ftom figures will not be available until al cl lJavidoon, u. akville, Conn.,· Wil- council, supported by the football Th C d' . h . t . 1 e onco1 IenEis w o ts o m er\ the latter part of the week because I:ud Dean, Glen::J Falls; Warren team. The flour and tomato fight view Sir Richa1d Livingstone.'' Uammum;, Schenectady; John Gil- and the cane rush were also held \Of couzse. He'll be back in a many students are hesitating to en- hiOUr, Chicago; Robert Symonds, in 1933 for the last time. few minutes. You can wait for ter college until assured of suffi- Wabun, Mru.s.; Robert Tiffany, Ny- him in the library.\ cient financial support to remain ack, N. Y., and Charles Stewai t, These formal fights were the out- Hcnnslacr all of the class of 1938. growth of the tendency of the es- The library proved to be a quiet, in college for the entire year, it was Kappa Alpha announces the tabli~hed members of any group to dignifi!!d !{)Om. Musty books bound definitely ascertained today that I d initiate newly-acquired members by in subdued biowns and greens lined th t th f h I th' p e ging of Willard G. Reynolds, the walls from floor to high eolon- a e res man c ass IS year Dt ool•Iyn '37. J '-'urnllam Chap inflicting more or less serious hard- i 1 th th t f 1 t ·. ' • • • .o - ial ceiling. Dr. Fox was stooping · s arger an a o as year. man, Ut·eenwich, Conn.; Arthur B. ships upon them. Individual hazing th h th 1 I k' d . f C W d I S Was Common l 'n educati'onal 1 ·nstitu- over e eat ay ng m lmg 01 Dr. harles N. al ron, secre- .awrcncf',. warthmore, Pa.; Crom- a f' well Mcintosh, Buffalo·, John c. tions in the first half of the 19th \Su.e. · tary of the college and ehairman of century, but not until the 80's were rr Richard has had a severe the admissions committee, declared Nott, New York City; and Harlow 1 f\ ht . 1 d' 11 regimen l·ately. I hope you're not. that the class of 1938 eonsists of C. Vorhees, Chicago, Ill., all of the genera 1g s me u mg a mem- · t k h' b f th I d t d B f g<>mg o as 1m very many ques-' 249 men, nine more than that of class of 1&38. ers o e c asses a op e . e ore tions ?\ this time sophomores were content- · the calss of 1937 last September. Kappa Nu announees the pledg- Beyond the resolve n(}t to aslt the ing of Alfred R .Seigle, Brooklyn, ed with forcing freshmen to amuse ddstingufshed British scholar what Loai)S and Registration .., y them by such harmless stunts as h th ht f u · C 11 h' \. . : .Jerome Spellman, Brooklyn, e oug o mon o ege, or 1s But the same factors operating N. Y.; Melvin Muroff, Brooldyn, swimming in lhe long grass of the opinion of the American Girl, my in the delay of registration of the N Y II . K M h . college pasture and painting the 1 f th · t · th . .; arnson arp, ec aniC· pans or e m er-v1ew were ra er uuperclasses is also operating 'll s· 1 L • Idol green by using their hands as b 1 vr P; , H nPy ew1s, Troy; Herman ne u ous. among the candidates for the fresh- K 1 A t d I . K brushes. The last was always fol- At th' 1 t s· R' h d t d PSS er, ms er am; .oUIS ess- · IS po n tr IC at en ete · man elass. Loans ar·e being secur- ler, Amstt>rdam; Marvin Miller, lowed by \Idol-Worshipping\, a He shook hands quietly, but his. ed by many students and others Ballston Spa, BPrnard OlE'nder, Am- customary routine in which the un- · blue eyes twinkled and a kindly. are trying to obtain jobs that will sterdam, and Berthold Goodman, lucky 1Ieshmen salaamed befme smile stiued· his gtizzled mustoche. · net them enough for college ex-·. Schenectady, '36, the others are the statue and pr·ayed aloud for the ·He auangEd the pillows <>n the members of the class of '38. wisdom of the sopohmores. After· davenport and reclined with one. penses. 1910 this custom developed into a elbow upon the arm, more like a; Dean Charles F. F. Garis predict- Alpha Delta Phi has pledf!ed free-for-fall battle with green and c<>llege student than a college ed that the . total enrollm~nt will Challcs M. Little, Minneaporis, red .paint being thrown at contest- president. . be the normal one for Umon. Minn.; \ViUiam A. Godfn~y. Spring\ ants as well a~ the Idol. The tra- The first qmstion was inspil ed' Fre>Shman AvE>ragf' Higher field, ~fn~~.;C' Chmll's. T. Chapin, dition was kept until a year ago al- by the studious atmosphe1e of the Unlr'l reg 1 ·~tration ~·~complete few G1 eenw1ch, onn.; John S. Woll, lh h · t t th ~ ~ oug tn eres on e part of stu- room: \Is inter est in c!afsical dud· statt'st 1 ·c~ can be determt·n· ed about SchcnPdndy; Pre>:ton T. Reed, d t d 1·· d · · · o f d · · ' · ~ . _ en s ec 1ne . 1es wan1ng m x 01 as 1! IS In the f1·euhman clas\. But thece facts IIm tsualc; H.obPI t R. Shepard. - -, ~ u ~ Olen Ri<lgP, N. J.; Duncn:n Cornell, The final ·passing of these scraps Ame1ican colleges?' are already known: the scholarship Alb is only a somewhat belated mani- Traditional Studies Popular average of the class of 1938 is any. festation of the serious attitude of \No I do not think that it is,.' higher than that of the class of The Delta Chi pledges are: Vin- the students of tOday. The amuse- s·aid the author of \A Defense of 1937; there are sixteen sons of Un- cent Keenan, Saugerties; Eliot ments .and activities of the busy Classical Educ·ati<>n\ without hesi- ion alumni in the class of 1938 and Parker, Greenville; James Lote- · world have clax·med the interest t' • Th t · · 1 b f ·1 t' f U · · ta mg. ' e radtttonal course of a arge nuni er o rea 1ves o n- ridge, Rensselaer; Newton Ritcl}ie, .once devoted to th .. e l1'ghter st'de of h · · 1 h b · study at Oxfot d, w ieh 1s still the wn a umni; t e num er Of resident Schenectady; John Haswell, Water- college life. (C t' d p· 3) (C t\ d p 3) vliet; Charles McCarthy, Water-: on mue on age on mue on age Vliet; Richard Hotaling, Schenec-. -~~-o~-~- tady, '3s, the others are members: Blauchai·d and Sullivan Contest of the class of '38. Bete Theta Pi has pledged Ed·: In Short Story ward Carpenter, Amsterdam; San-' · ford England, Schenectady; Grant' Smith, Schenectady; Alexander; Mer-riam, Bristol, Conn.; Rober.t, Pendleton, Gloversville, all of the: freshman class. · Lambda Chi Alpha announces the: One hundred and forty colleges·i · from forty different states eom-· peted in the first nation-wide short story contest conducted recently by the magazine Story. The Union en-• tra:nts who qualified In the contest were Richard D. Blanchard '34 and'. pledging of the following: Charles • House, Plattsburgh; Laurence Mc- Keever, Philaqelphia; Anthony Ca- nala, Whitehall; William Price, Ballston Lake; John Iiasard, Sara- John K. Sullivan '34. toga: Sylvester Cummings, Sara- The Octobet' issue of Story re-· toga, all of the class of '38. cently published, contained the first The Kappa Sigma pledges are: : prize story, written by James · Robert Clark, William Jacober, Laughlin IV, Harvard '36, and one. Robert Rankin, Robert Richardson of the editm·s of the Harvard Advo- and Carl Trahman, Bloomfield, N. · cate. The story, entitlPd \Melody J.; and Joseph Wilson, Amsterdam, ·Into FugUe,'' is about a. bourgeois all of the class of 1938. German family under the Nazi· 'l.'.e- Phi Delta Theta announces the gime. The Second prize story by pledging of Jack Coleman, Schenec- Madelene Cole of New York Univer- tady; Rodger Fowler, I!adley, N. ·. sity will .appear in the November, Y.; George l\1:uir, TlJ.Xedo Park, N. issue. Another contest is being Y.; Harry Myers, Albany; Vincent · pla11ned for the coming school year Smith; Schenectady; and F. Van according to the editors of the (Continued on Pll$.1l' S) magazlff.e, FRESHMEN First competition for the Editorial Board of \THE CONCORDIENSIS\ for the class of 1938 OPENS FRIDAY. with a meeting in the Publications Office on the second floor in Silliman Hall at 1 :00 o'clock. This competition, open to all freshmen regardless of experience, offers the .following advantages:. 1. Valuable journallatic experience. 2. Possibilities of advancement to positions of campus leadership. 3. An ()ppOttunity to make valuable contacts wltll faculty and prominent students. 4. An opportunity to pursue a •cotn•Ri> In journallRm undPr thP di~ rectlon of Mr. Milton M. Enzer, director of thP college News BurPau. 5. An opportunity to improve yow· command of thE' EngUsh lan- guage with practical writing expedf'DCE>. \Conditions in the wo!ld are worse today than at the end of the war·, he said, for the world has been re- ceding slowly from principles of truth, liberty, consideration, and justice. \The ominous thing that we have seen recently is not more violence, but the frank profes,;ion that force is and will continue to be the· de- cisive factor in human affairs a:nd . . . a. willing acceptance of that doctrine.\ In the past, men felt force was wrong, and called it jus- tice, for they were ashamed. Today force exists, una:shamedly, proud to be wrong. Remedy For Our Trouble \Plato if we asked him how WP could get out of our present mess, would have sa:id, 'Become different yourselves, change your outlook. Leagues of Nations, Kellogg pacts, Disarmament conferences, will not save you. They can only be what the people who compose thPm are. If men are self-seeking, unjust, quarrelsome, they will nullify and finally destroy the best political machinery in the world.' \The problem of international politics is to play Beethoven with an orchestra of penny whistles. There is only one way to do it; im- prove your instruments. If you are going to get great music, instead of di:>cord:>, out of your politics, you must do the same. The interna- tional problem i:s the human prob- lem.\ \This conclusion\ Sir Richard con- tinued, \is the only way out, and it is In our power to do something about it. We must change our alli- ances to those of love rather than hate, cooperation rather than ag- gression. The sentiment exists alrea·dy in the world of science, he said, where scientists work not for nationalities but for humanity. There may be criticism and competition, but it is con:otructive. No intcmalional riv- alry leo;sens the fame of Einstein, Millikan, or Madam Curie. In the work of the Rockefclcr and Carne- gie Foundations there is the same (Continued on Page 2) Dr. Fox stated that, to the alumni the students seem too cold in their valuation and appreciation of col- lege and that, to the undergrad- uates, the alumni seem too senti- mental in this valuation. Although admitting the possibility that the alumni, in long memory, paint the college brighter than it ever was or could be, Dr. Fox said that a fair understanding would reveal mueh richness missed by those who take the good for granted. He said that one indispensible way to realize ex- cellence, or the lack of it, was to Jearn how one or the other came about by the diligent study of the institution's history and traditions. In explanation of our place in this tradition Dr. Fox said: Tradition Feeds Our Resolution \But tradition nourishes more than sentiment and understanding; it feeds our resolution. We are neither the first or the last to catch. step in the long procession gather- Ing power from and for this ancient college. Looking back we see the benefits that generation after gen- eration added. We mark the grow- ing reputation that ltept pace with the yea:rs. As in the historic life of every institution, there were times when the pace quiekened and others when it slowed down in con- fusion. Let it not be said that in our time the pace grew faltering and feeble! We are not the heri- tot·s of a great tradition merely for our pleasure; we are not the final end the fathers had in view. WI' arc not only heritors, but f<tewards. The estate is in our hnnds, gentle- men, in the hands of students aR well as teaching scholars, and wP shall be unfaithful to our trust if <Continued on Page 3) Union College Barbarians Criticized For Their Crude Yell 'Heads Out' By VEDDER When the weather is fine and the sun beats down upon the campus, ''fair yo1,1ng things\ stroll through the college grounds on their way from school, or perhaps buxom lasses pedal their bikes along the drives. The truth is that these creatures· are longing for some rec- ognition from the \handsome\ col- , iege ehai,>>l. Un~ortunatel_Y they do not always recetve attenbon. Conditions, however, were differ- ent during the }atter ye~rs of the 'last eentury. When' a d~msel froq~. the semina:ry passed in front of South College she could be sure that some observer would ~otice hl;lr. \Heads Out!\ he would yell. In an instant, f·rorri every window two or mote heads Would po-p out. The eyes in thosll heads would take a careful account of the passing ~igure, and the mouths would say, \'Mil).mm a well turned ankle,\ or \Sueh a cute pug nose.\ With this a:tten~ion the young lady would do !jhe proper thing, blush, and wish for just an M. GILBERT instant that 'She had not brought all this attention upon herself. Mothers of the \Elite Eighties\ took great care of their dat·llng d:J;ugli'ters and when they learned of the scandalous golng-ons upon the hill the dear mammas entered complaints to t he administration. And you can rest assured that the daughters disapproved heartily. The Concordiensis, always a 'cru- sading journal,' ran an editorial in which it declared that it was time for the crude custom of \Heads Oul\ to cease. The New York and New Orleans papers learned of the Concordy's editoria:l and ran articles in w.hich they referred to the Union boys as barbarians. It was· harcl :t;or the papers to .believe that such an uncouth custom couid .exist in an Amerlcan college. Times certainly have changed, To- day Dorp's fa:ir young things pine their lives away . in the hope that some day the college boys Will go native.

Two tto •: • I ... ' ' ... ;_:·~ (': j t1~i{k CONCORDIENSIS .. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1934 I 6 o I I <I; J • <il. a • • • ' • • • • ~. • •• •••• i • • • • • • • • •• \:} j ,:'.'·~»~~ ~~\~e.<hand, the changing· trend of society .1-. .- _, . \\- ~- ':, • dt'mands that not .only a four year c0lleg.e F. • Ji.· :··R... 'ft 1 _. A· ,._ 0 trnsts education is desi.able but that graduate A ft.: \--r , work in some particular field is essential to U;;;;;=====.-;==~=====;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;.o;;;;;=;;;-;;-;;;:;;;==== MUSIC \A < 'au.:ra f'm~l!a Parol I' A~..,xai\ r'oUlillllD H!71 ME.MSER ~sodat~d @'ollt!)iatt ~nss ..; 1!>34 (il'()fu;j;J!lior£rt'935 .- tW>!SON WISCOI<SIN The nff.icial newspaper of thr students of 'l!nion Colh;ge. Published Tuesdays and Fl'ld!!-YS throughout the college year·, except durmg Christmas -and spring reces~es. ,Publication Offi(!e, The Gazette Press, 334 State St .. Schenectady, N. Y., Tel\phone 4-4141 Entered at the S~henectady Post Office as Second Clasq Mail Matter Sub::;c•·iption pnce FIV~ cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editori~OriiS, Silliman Hall. Union College Campu:;. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. ----~--- --- ~ - Address all bu~incss cornmunkations to William 11. Fitzge•ald, Delta Upsilon Hou.;e, Union <;ol- Iege, Schenectady, N. Y. All other _e\'m.munlca- tions to Clemens F. Hathaway, Cht Psr Lodge, Union College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief \Villiam H. Fitzgerald ........ Business Manager Joseph A. Woolman ............... News Editor Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor Thornton ·w. Whipple .... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. Anderson V. Gilbert R. North V. Trumbull A. Stevenson Reporters Contributing to This Issue vV. Ferguson M. Bedell R. Cohen Tuesday, September 18, 1934 Dear John! (accent 011 the dear) the helm '(note the pun), and the ' ultimate success. Only accredited coUeges We !mow we can't replace you: publication entirely separated fro_m Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, promi- •, and l.Hl_iversities can. ~rive the l)roper training. nevertheless, the noble trad.Uions of English 31, the seven m.e~ comprrs- nent 01ganist and musical directol' ~ Farrago must co~tinue. Your own ing the staff have ~ 'dlffrcult task of Lhe college, .opened his season ·of f • t·h h ·f\ d 't 0 1.'ble t COl t 1 ·n discrii:ninatin\' humor,\ or wa~ it. ahead of thfilm. We are just a little recitals Sunday by .playing the ever the former Front Skeet sage's, is bit sl{epUcaJ of the results thlS new· popular \Rhapsody ln Blue,\ a 01 ose w o m 1 p SS· • o ~· . ue \' . their education in graduate schools. lost forever from these sheets;- phm may bring about, but all the composition of Geo~ge Gershwin, but, the real power behind the Con- mo1·e power to the staff if it sue- •celebrated Amel'ican composer. Y <JU have entered a college that for ahno-st cordy policy, tha·t effervescent bub- . ceeds under those relatively difficult This selection requires mote var- ·ble of wit and wisdom is with us conditions. ied combinations than usually ex- one hundred forty years has withstood the yet. Now that he occupies the spa- .pected on an <Jrgan. It includes cious c.:mference hall ·On Bailey's * * * strange chords that are unfa,miliar ~ secon ol'lr, we Wl · e a e o sr On Alexander Field a,lmost the' to t e o c assrca ype o musiC, test of a natioa tha.t has !rrown to world wide d fl ·11 b bl t ·t h Jd 1 · 1 t f • · · tl t f t · i·n comfort, and still have chairs · . . The soft .and melodious strains, sig- promnl.ence Ill · 1•e ros er 0 governmen s. enl'lugh left over to prop our feet. : s!l:me famrhar scene ,greets the eye. nifying the easy going present life, Union is now the pioneer -in the field ·(}f what No more need we lift out fanny to There have been a few cha;nge~: suddenly interrupted by dramatic offer the solitaly ·seat to visitors. ! Two n~w coaches. are empl~yed thrs :and majestic chords, characterize seems to be a new type of education, that of . year:, lights for mght pracbce have this modern bit of classic. The mus- * \ '.been installed, a new blocking ma- ical pictures exhibited, like the lives t h . tl tudent only Wh\t he ·s l-est , . . . chine is in -operation. The Dutch- eac lllg' 1e S · ' \' . I D Spealung of thrs ti~le, 'V:e are m- . man eleven, already !ll smooth fast of many Americans, have several qualified to study, The success of Union's fO<mOd by a Columb\ <nand that wn<king --· ... boau oquip- iutacpaetatlnM whieh aco hatd tn Farrago, among other th~ngs, means ped with golden silk pants, white perceive. · venture will be determined by the time that fodde~·· That, Webster mforms us, jerseys with garnet trimmings and · Changing his style completely, the constitutes r'ough . feed for cattle .. othel· paraphanalia,. Gosh oh gee! organist offered for his second num- you graduate and certainly you s'ho11ld find Figure it out fo1· yourself, w_atson. What an outlook for the coming ber \In a Monastery Garden\ by The column was successful m the ·.sea;son with those golden pants. Albert W. Ketelbey. Playing on the it interesti-ng to note the progress of a move past, and we intend to keep the : In fact the team is so fast, that imagination, this selection carried , · l l' · I · h d' live-stock equally content through- . t·he -head ·coach held secret practice :one away into the atmosphere of -\' out the coming year. ·the first day the .boys· were out. If so musrc a cou u e ear ac- into future eaucatwna uo 1cres wnc 1- ft · th t 1·' b h d rect]~ concern you, , , , · An>h\\' m· wmta= ean boat that <nmpo.iod by no~inn& ,him.,, A you're a liar. 'choir, and birds, singing far in the Besid.es the fact that you are studyin55 To think we had· to wait until distance, completed the image ere- our senior yea:r before we coul(l ': • * ,. ated by Ketelbey's work under a new type of education which orig-. avoid the bane of college life-those , Played Ba.eh . N eight o'clocks. One's mind .is so · It is understood, of course, that Dr. Tidmarsh continued with inated in one of the oldest colleges m · ew clear at that unear.th\Y hour, when this column is ba:rely in its embry- Bach's \Toccata and Fuge in b Yol'k state, you have also entered a c-ollege one is dreaming sweet dreams. · onic stage. As we take the copy to Minor.\ The famed German com- As we trot down· to ~hapel, oul· • press we shudaer with fear; any poser musically illustrates a con- which boasts many fraternities and .is known . first morning class, j9yfU].lY will we :column may be our last. Still we versation between an old man and regard the freshmen, sleepy ~nd are not discouraged, for the uncer- a group of enthusiastic young chil- as the ;viother of Greek Letter fraternities .. tired, staggering a~ if they had JU~t 'tainty of it all lends a certain thrill. dren. One of the children, however, lea:rned to walk, victims of. an- anti- i In this little cubicle we shall being somewhat restless, did not After the mad s-cramble of rushing week it quated rule th,o.t should have been ·write about subjects that interest listen as intently .as the others and fl t t t th b abolished long ago. : us. If they do not interest you, we was severely punished. The compo- may seem super UOU·S 0 S a e . e a· ove . a·re son-y. The most you can do is sition is characterized by the swift * * ~ 1 facts in these columns; yet it cannot be em- tell us. All suggestions are we - movement of the fingers followed Considerable interest · is _being come. Some of them may even be by firm and very dignifie.d c.hords. phasized too much that some of your strong- shown regarding the welfare of the considered. The program was concluded with new Idol. With brother :N[cCord at -B. \Pomp and Circumstance\ by Ed- ~st and most lasting friendships will gi'()W , . ward Elgar. Persuaded by the col- ' these two groups a majority of the orful tones of ·sustained harmony, Week's Best Editorial FORCE VS. TRADITION ·freshmen class probably is com-· one could not help but appreciate . posed. ~~:re~~al~ie~~g m~~~n c~~ta~~~t. 'Finally, there are the radicals, smooth flowing music and then _galled at the rules they are told bursting fourth with full tones, ·thr's REPLACE THE CUTHROAT P.YSTEM out of your fraternal associations at Union. An impoi'tant part of your life .is about to be .n~.ulded-it is now up to each one of you to ;e'' that it is moulded properly. T.uesday e:vening's .fiasco in tlle t b tf 1 t · ·ng phy o o ey, resen u a recervr - march afforded a splendr'd f1'nale freshman revclt. against the senior · 1 h t' t d deter·mr'ned s1ca c as rsemen , an • for the pr<Jgram. class at a traditional \paddle par'• apparently, to seize a,fter a week of ty\ can provide an interesting. c<Jm- college the social· pr'erogatives and O>--- Fii n ''i* , ... IN MEMORIAM DR. JAMES WILLIAM BLACK ment1J,ry on a college· conflict be- privilege!> of those who are their Phrase of the week-\Internation- twee'n conservative and radical. On predecessors by the margin of a al politics is like playing Beethoven the first hand are the seniors who mere three years. That the re- with an orchestra of penny whis- by three years' work at college- quirements might be effacious, tles.\ Sir Richard Livingstone. not an easy accomplishment,,_ in na.cked_by serious purpose, is a pos- N. Y. Times Headline-Richberg their eyes-have earned through sibility which perhaps is beyond Clashes With Gen. Johnson Over adherence to tradition, the right to their horizon of vision. These men Mrs. Rosenberg. Dear Me, Mr. benefit by its continuance. They are the promoters of such violent Richberg. have braved their own senior dis- unrest as was manifested Tuesday ---•o--- After the mad whirl of rushing week the entire student bm!y must feel relieved that it is over. There is no reason why some more efficient and less exasperating system of rushing can not be instituted at Union. With but one or two exceptions there is not a cam- pus in the eastel'n secto1· of this country that has a more poorly orgauized system. One of the most beloved members of the faculty of the college resigned two years ago ciplinarian and his cohorts, have 11 ight and appear to malte up a L\ • t U W ld fought scraps as freshmen and small percentage of the first-year lVIngs one rges 01\ sophomores, ~d have chosen cer- me Pea Th h Ch tain courses of study in which a . n. cc roug ange standard of marks had to be main- College tradition, u!tra-conserva- tained for them to remain. How un· tive and out-dated as it may be, tutored seems the freshman, who exists as a strong opponent even For one week mutual campus friends were after one year's leave of absence prior to at dagger-ends, cutting each others' throats which he had taught at various colleges in in order to get delegations fo1· their respec- the United States. No members of the four for a new class of men outnumber- lacks all these experiences! . ing others and desirous of using its physical superiority in achiev- ing a revolution of this ltind. Sup- porting the traditional sentiment are the other three classes, most of the faculty, and the overwhelm- The frllshmen, for the most part, tive fraternities. In the past there was an classes ever studied 11nder Professor James are divided in. three camps. Many interfratemity council on this campus which William Black, but the place he filled in the ~e~h~~oar~b~:r~~o!~h~~f'b~~fbJ! gradually degenerated to such a position that hearts of Union College meli has become tra- learning its ways with dociiity, lat- (Continued from Page 1) disregard of color, race, and creed, the same work for humanity. Sir Richard proposed the remedy of exercises in the appreciation of the qualities of other na:tions. It is not an easy thing to do, but each nation can in that way learn from the other. er to glean from it the education it was abolished. On the othe1· hand, colleges ditional to the college. which, to a few, is their chief aim in coming, A second philosophy of the same size as Union boast strong, ef.fi- Now that Professor Black is deceased, it concerns those who look but cas- ually :;tt the 1 ules concerned with . ingly strong pressure of alumni opinion. Here is the conviction that the freshmen shoUld toe the mark as ·have other freshmen for 131 previous year.s. Even if these sen- timents of long standing are to ])e overcome, the radical element of students will have to use weapons other than physical force. That alone, against the weight of senti- ment and tradition which comprise the pe~sonality of a college, will ;'\~mitting ~hat he spoke pessi- mlStlcally, Su· Richard conceded the existence of forces working for the good- books which attempt to· promote amity and understanding between nations, tokens of a pos- sible understanding. cient interfraternity councils which help to is indeed regrettable that Uni<:m CoUege stu-· frosh caps, respect to seniors and · · d 1 th' · t t {aculty, and such affairs as inter- orgamze rushmg an ma ~e lS nnpor an dents will no longer be able to tllink of him class battles and senior-freshman \Changes do come in the world\ he concluded. \Have you ev~r noticed how they come? ... Reform seems impossible, hopeless. And sud- denly the change takes place the reform is made. The thing ' that , these laws, they think; that thcllY f t . f f t 't h· t r less d .,,d meetings. No serious purpose baclts unc wn o any ra: erm Y c ap e l u - as a man who Inay be back on the campu\ gery. Something must be lacking if Union at some time for a visit. Very few students themselves represent one in a cen- tury-long chain of Hobart classes not prevail. -Hobart Herald. cannot find the means to organize its rush- registered here now knew him, but, to those is of no moment whatsover. Of ------------------------~----~------~---------- captions it as follows: \Constance one had despaired of is done, with- Bennett and her son, Peter. Connie out effort or struggle .... What ha:s ing for the mutual benefit of the twenty- few the loss of Professor Black is even Middlesex Notes odd fraternities which h-ave .chapters here. It would be wise if the Student Council would take the matter into consideration at its opening meeting tomon·ow night while the effects of rushing are .still fresh in every one's mind. We grant that deferred rushing is impossible for the moment, but some or- ganization as to dates with sub-freshmen and to method of pledging can be devised. greater. D()l'lald Bailey Moulton When some prominent individual dies, the world notes his pas·sing with transitory re- gret. Only those wh() knew him intimately can feel the emptiness which has succeeded him in their hearts and minds. Donald Bailey Moulton has been mourned, WELCOME FRESH,MEN . but no more sincerely than by his colleagiles G tl d h · t is typica:l of the moderns·, every happened, what explains the one are 1e ays vv __ en w1t y h ? J thrill attracts her, even mother- c _ange · ust ,this; nature has ap- people and wise used to write bons hood.:' plied to the old men the one rem\ mots and gorgeous sarcasms for The Herald-Tribune has been ad- edy that cat?- cure them, death. A the assempled multitudes. Today, vertising seats for \Tight Britches.\ n~w gene:atlOn has grown up, with Middlesex has fallen sadly in pres- Is this a part of the home renova- dr.fferen~ rdeas from the old. Tlleir tion program? wtll trmmphs-a:utomatically--and tige and glory. None of those glor- the change is made. You al'e the iously independent minds remain, New York Times headline- ne_w gerte~ation. When yotir gefiCl'- \Cohen dies at 65.\ Bought out on atwn are 1 tl 1 f and conventi011 reigns triumphant n 1e r orties and fifties the rise, most likel.y. the control f th · ' in those hallowed halls. It is up to 0 e world will be in * * * your hands. Then-will the world us, the successors of the immortal be. al~ered? \Vill reason, the Greek Wassmansdorf, to find the tradition prmc1ple, or love, the Chrr'str'an con- It is interesting to nQj;e that Com- t 1 th ' up anew. We hope that you will rnunists in America object to hav- ro e world? Either could save bear with us. ing pa:pers blame \alien agitators\ us. Shall we stand where we sta:nd We will admit before we begin for the textile strikes. They feel it now, or even ° 11 a lower level '1 Or that we will not carry on the feud, a slur on the intelligence and class- shall we have taken a real st~p in if such it be, with a certain division consciousness of His Proletarian the advance of man? It is what you of this college. We cannot at this Majesty, the American workingman. f!~i~o~r C~f!temporaries in the time find intellectual rancor enough Some()ne haS suggested that Amer- and on oun rr~s of the world feel for so prolonged an effort. But wis-· ican labor has no class-conscious-' lems, your attltutle to world prob- dom will be acquired with time. ness, and that democracy, though ' Physically, though, Middlesex is' decried by many, has· definite traces D ld in better condition than ever. it ia the A!llericB:n mind. So they say,. . ona B. Moulton Dies many of r'ts 1. s . t' d t is said that renovation will be cai·~ your strrkes Will not do much good As R It as your Alma Mater. Entering this college in n pirn tons an successes wen . dad nut \'\ •umm'\ a plan M Hv.uonl~o Ia a ,h ... e=odity: esu of Overwork . to the g-ra.ve with him. vised by a bursar who is also an Each Of the worfu's 37,500,000 war D - · 1934 iS significant to yoU for three reaSOI!S: ongin~' with on aya tnw~d _,. UMU\tl\ moont '\' thon •ix dol- Jul:\tidftB. Moulton, '\'• diod on • · y t t 1 · th' f·. ld h k ing off depreciation. Tha;nk you, la;rs to the DuPonts. b a er an illness brought on v1z., you are making your first step into' e no on Y m lS Qne 1e was e nown · · Y overwork A f' t Professor Hoadley. . and the · trs grade student Y 1, f th 1 f 1938 t on The Concordiensis. He was working- for ou memvers o . e c ass o are o .. . . rt when he died on July 7 and the souroe of be congratulated upon yom choice of Umon higher education; the class of 193B will be as a friend and as a worker, As a scholar, an , , , ' • ' · ahip, \\h~~:· :,:,'j,~P~~ Seh 1 folatr- thl t · l' t many extra e . rmse o the first to graduate after studying for four a . e C, a JOurna IS , and a fraternity And what would tho s=atic T,ho C=d~Nast •nblleati=• ha•o, won pcomi~~\\~lo. ~Uviti~ Ho b S d' . favored us with a prospectus in journ r n~e m athletics and Gazette were to hire a puoof- conservative estimat e us, ondalvl ery cla~s activities. He was 01 j}_t mg. m Y ears under the Union Plan for the Intellect- rother, he ranked high, eh~aeta '~· H, A. L .. do \ tho whi'h it oi'fo\ to •av · '\m beu>m P•rti , t' · ual.Advancement of Youth; and thirdly, your class will be the first that will have studied f()l' four years under Dr. Dixon Rya-n Fox as the executive head of the college. Gone is the old time feeli:t).g that a coUeg.e education is unnecessary for. young: men. On.· reader? d e, seven o ars. Ed 1 tor of The C anagmg Long phrases are a sign of insincerity. Coming up from New Yorlt we Indee 1 • they say, if we btry our historian in h' oncordiensis, c}ass . · · t' d t . . ' , · magaz nes at news-stands they ca,n and 1 rs sophomore year· Feeling the sharpness of hi-s loss w.e can not no .lee ba:t rmmedtately before en- save 'US even mol'e to 't $9 08 All c ass treasurer the f 11 . - · • termg a town, one passed the local we have to do is' t wr ' ·. · year. He also served 0 ° owmg do more than revere him silently as Donald ce~etery. Evidently a ca:se of \B:V Vanity Fair Houseo :u~sGrbed to Prom Committee and n the Junior , thell' pasts shall ye know them.\ . · ' n ar en, ber of both the va . was a mem- Bailey Mo.ulton. OUl' colleaO'ue and our friend ~~h.d t'Vo~ule. G~nteral John.son, or track teams. He l'Slty football and , o • • * \' · · vv a ever ess p1c uresque frgure is the Fren h Cl was president of . running the NRA should investio-ate with th ; ub and was affiliated One of our cheaper screen. mag'- this as a: violation of the banking F e elta Upsilon Fra:ternity azines displays a picture of Miss code.· 0 .r several weeks prior to h .. \\o t \' .. t d f · d d passmg he had b rs --·,....... .ns. anc:e ,,...e.nn.e . .., .an nen\ an -..s, R .. c. style book, for U'h een working on a l · e Concor.diensis. Ftesh Much (0 studenb freshma year. The .f of the class: Harol tady; < hall; F Vt.; A.n :M. Aim Allen, Ames, Annett, del, Bu: Schenec Meehan Schenec Schenec nectady tady; :F tady; C Jack B 11 , ;I·.; ~~~:~7' ~ ·. \ain ·La -~ · Schene< ·, Qua·ker Brown, Brown, Brown, Also man; J ton; R< W.Va. Lake; Vernon Joseph mand An tho~ S0n C Carpen Carter, bula, 1: Greenv man, Clark, Clegho ford, I fey, T1 nectad Lionel' Dunca ter Ct Daly, l son, 1 Day, . Glens nee tad City l mingtc kill; L J.; Also per :N tora, f fer, C merho Schiff, rade, Schult Schult Scott, Jr., 1~ Schen Schen Shore, lyn; I Rober N.J.; tady; Vince1 orne D. S:p Sprin1 N. St eric ~ Swan! Swan Symo1 Taafe ner, I han, f pletor Theis: Thorn son, Tiffa1 Bloon · i Scoti! ~ dusa; John Robe: necta cago·; Tom Davit B.W : Wibe Chaz: bany dam; .i tady; ;Beth! tady. ' Als dam; Geo.ri pet•, Duell •.~ ·~11111 ,, - - - '2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ;jill I

of A D nd po- ned hen this ale berg Mr. of It is each from pessi- ceded for to· nding pos- ever d sud- the that with- ha:s the as ap- rem~ A p, with Tl1eir the gertel·- fifties, be in world Greek con- save sta:nd Or step in you in the feel d prob- Dies on on student to He and in is, cJass year e Junior a mem- and of to his on a THE OONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBE!ft 18, 1934 Three Ftesbman Enrollment h Dye, Gloversville; William E. :Endi- cott, ·East Greenbush; Sanford Much Large1· This Yeall' England, Schenectady; Hyman En- zer, Elizabeth, N. J.; F!r·ederick Fagal, Stratford, Conn.; Samuel W. Oxford Students Continue Fraternity Pledge Rush Fh~st Choir Rehearsal To T~ Favor Classical Studies Ends as List Reaches 114 Be Held Friday Afternoon FROST & REYNOLDS Printers <Continued from Page U Farr, Tunkhannock, Pa.; Gilmore <Continued from Page l) <Continued from Page 1) students is far .greater intbls year's Farrar, Schenectady; Robert Fer- molo:t populat, concenttates upon Ladd, Schenectady; aJH of the class freshm.an class than that of 'last guson, Auburn,; WiUia:m FiHdn, clatS~ical philewphy, and history, al- of 1938. year. Troy; :sterling Finch, Schenectady; though modem phi'losophy is not Phi Gamma Delta bas pledged The .following Is a complete ,Jist John Fitzgerald, Schenectady; Ed- neglected.\ The blue ~yes :bright· the following members of the class of the .members of the ft:eshman ward Fitzpatrick, Schenectady; ened as Sii Richar·d apptoached his of 1938: Martson Ames, Montcl'air, class: Donald Ford, Albany; Joseph Foth- 1a,vorite topic. \Plato and Aristotle N. J.; Thomas Jones, ..A!lbany; Or- Harold B. Ackerman, Schenec- eringham, Schenectady; Roger wrote textbooks of philos.ophy, but ville A. Merchant, Jr., ..A!msterdam; tady; C!a:ytan H. Adams, White- Fowler, Hadley; Frank A. Freiho- their textbool's were wor!~s of gen- John Perry, Schenectady; Foster hall; Francis Agostini, Benington, fer, jr., .. Schenectady; Cliffard Gam- ius. Which can s,c-a.r-cely be said· o.f Hobert, Cec1ter Moriches, N. Y.; Vt.; A-nthony Aiella, Aibany; Fred mons, Schenectady; Louis Gardi- the moderns.\ Sherwin Schrade, Duanesburg, 'N. M. Alexander, Albany; George W. ner, Baltimore, Md.; Walter 0. Ger- · \Moreover the classic;; havesigni- Howard Sa·nds, Jr., Montclair, N, J.; Allen, Jr., Schenectady; Marston ber, Schenectady. ficance and value in mode1n life. Y., and Alfred Tann<=r, Rensselaer- Ames, Montclair, N. J.; Delevan Also John H. Gilmour, Oak Park,' You wi'll find practically aU the ville, N. Y. Annett, Watertown; Edmund Arun- 111.; William A. Godfrey, Spring- pr.obler:;s . whic·h bother, the . world The Phi Sigma Kappa pledges del, Buffalo; William Assenheimer, . field, l\IIass.; Paul Goldber-g, Troy; to.day \ta:ted and dtscu\sed I? the are: Gearon Kimball, Albany; How- Schenectady; Raymond Bahenis, Arnold M. Gordon, Schenectady;. Dral~gues of .Plato. In Plato s Re- · a1·d Thomp~on, Troy; and Edward Mechanievil:le.; Robert D. Badgley,. Arthur S. Grant, jr., Dumont, N. J.; pubhc, for mstance .. YO·Ull<g men Van Auken, lHcdusa, N. Y.; of the Schenectady; Edward J. Barry, Herman Greulick, Scotia; Robert come. to Socrates wrth the same class of 1938. Schenectady; George Barter, .Schc- Gunn, Pittsburgh, Pa. ;. Arthur que.stiOns th~at college yudent,;, ask Psi Upsilon has pledged the fol- nectady; Hani~on Beale, Schenec- Haff, Broadalbin; WiJ.Iard Haga- thea profes,ors today. . lowing members of the class of tady; Robert G. Benham, Schenec- dorn, Schenectady; Arthur Halla- W~en asked how his ~u~ies as 1938: Edward Atundel, Buffa·lo; tady; Charles Berger, Schenectady; day, jr., Oswego; John Ha..rdima:n, rresrc~nb 0 / ~orpus C~nst\h ~~~- Philip E. Duchscherer, :Kenmore; Jack Bergstrom, Ridgewood, N.J.; Watertown; Miles Hare, .Schenec- !'g~ a x 01 .' compare .w 1 .e Robert Ferguson, Auburn; Lottis . Ca .rl B. Booth, Delmar', Robert n. tady· Henry H tm ·s h . autJes of Pr·esrdent Fox, Wlth whom Gardiner, Baltimore, .Md. ·, Arthur ~ · ' ar an, c enec- he has been ope d' th k d l r, Borst, Albany·, Jack Bowie, Roch- tady· Severyn Hasbrouck Stone' . . ' .n mg e wee en • Grant, Dumont, N.J.; Robert Gunn, f . '. . . · . Sn Rwhard smiled broadly. ··.;tester; .Joseph T. Bradbury, Moun- R1~~e, George Haswell~ ~atervhet; \My duties are .quite diffelent. Pittsburg, Pa.; and William ' . ~ain Lake.s, N.J.; Arthur B1'eimaier, Wilham. Hawkes, Elmira, Freder- You see, Cmpus Christi College is Hawkes, Elmira. Schenectady; Bradford Briggs, lck . H_~rgel, Schenectad~; Joseph not what you would call large. We The Sigma Phi pledges are Jack ·, Qua'lter St. Village; Clinton C. Henne:;ey, Saratoga Sprmgs; Hor-. have about ninety students. Balliol, C. Bowie, Rochester; Robert W. Brown, Brookline, Matis.; DeWitt ace ~olbrook, Schene<?t~dy; Charles· the la·rge,;,( college ·in Oxford, has Cleghorn, Mineola, N. Y.; John J. Brown, Rennsselaer; John lL H~mk .. el .. Albany; W~llram Hook,· betwEen 250 and 300 scho'lals. ThE Hardiman, Watertown, N.Y.; John Brown, Ogdensburg. Utica, Donald Hotalmg, Schenec- Oxford system d.fffeu so much A. Jardan, Mamaroneck; Freder·ic Also Donald W. Buchanan, Haga- tady;. Charles House, Plattsburg, from the wa.y colleges are conduct- Stoughton, New York City; C. Dob- man; Julius R. Bundgus, Hunting- N. Y., Stanton Hull, Troy; Robert ed .in America that the work of a ler Spohr, Chatham, N · J .; Tom S. ton; Roger N. Burgess, Huntington, W. Imrte, Glens Falls; Gino Insog- college president in Oxford is quite Ward, Garden City, N. Y.; and W. Va.; Roscoe Burnham, Ballston na, Amsterdam; Lawrence Isabella, at Vdriance with that of the he-ad of Frank .A. Freihofer Jr., Schenec- Lake; Robert M. Burns, Mount Az:1st~rdam;. '?l'illiam Isles, Me.ch- an American college. But the put- tady; of the class of 1938. Vernon; Horace Byrne, New Yorl(j amcvrlle; YTrlham Jacobe~, Bloom- poEe of the position, to keep the Pledged to Theta Delta Chi are Joseph CapareHa, Schenectady; Ar- field, N. J., Bernard Jacoltck, Sche- ¥arious narts .of the college running Joseph Reichel, Monroe; R. J. Haff, mand Cammarotta, Schenectady; nectady; IJ?Imer Johnson, Rotter- smoothly, is the same in both cases. Broadalbin; Robert Badgley, Sche- Anthony A. Canale, Whitehall; Ed- dam Junction; Thomas C. Jones, Students Take Initiative nectady; and Robert J. Doig, Erie, son Cannam, Chatham; Edward Alb~ny; John Jordan,, ~a~aron- \In America,\ Sir Richa!'d con- Pa., all freshmen. Carpenter, Amsterdam; Ralph lTI. e~k, Fred Jung, Gl~ve~svtlle,_ Har- finued, \the student's peroonal life Theta Nu 'Epsilon has pledged Carter, Jr., Schenectady; John CJ- nson Karp, Mec.hanrcville; Vmcent is quite unrestrained, and his stud- Walter Robbins, South Glens Falls; bula, Altamont; Charles T. Chapin, Keenan, Saugertres. ies ,are carefully governed by George Scott, Stillwater; bale Greenwich, Conn.; Frederick Chap- Also He_rman Kessler, Amster- cla~s€s and curricula. The Oxford Springstead, George Barter, and man, Greenwich, Conn.; Robel't dam; _LoU!s Kes~ler, Amsterdam; system reverses this. Where schol- Joseph Fotheringham, of Schenec- Clark, Bloomfield, N. J.; Robert Edward W. Krr:nball, Ballston arship is conce,rned, the univei\Sity tady, all freshmen. Cleghorn, Mineola; William Clif- Lake; Gearon Kimball, Albany; beli£ves the student matm·e en<mgh ford, Rennsselaer; William A. Cof- Raymond C. Kln;pper, SchenectB:dy; to pur·sue a. program of study on fey, Troy; Benjamin Cohen, Sche- Robert V .. Klmg, Lawyersvi_lle; his own initiative with the guidance nectady; William Collins, Nineveh; Stanley K~llm, Schene?tady; R1ch- of his tutcrE. Quizzes and examin- Lionel B. Colo by, Schenectady; ard Kovartc, Glovers'?l~e; F. Van ations are held periodically and the Duncan Cornell, Menands; Sylves- Ladd, Schenectady; Wrlham Ladue, student must either show his abil- ter Cummings, Saratoga; Charles Pla:ttsburgh; August B. Laurenski, ity or fail. The student's coud·uct is Daly, Schenectady; Richard David- ~uanesburg; Arthur B. Lawrence, or de red by a system of rules and son, Oakville, Conn.; Winterton' Jr., Swarthmore, Pa.; Harold W. fines whicll have become tladi- Day, Alplaus; Williard W. Dean, Leonard, Delmar; Wesley E. Leon- tiona!. Glens Falls; Joseph DeBrino, Sche- ard, Olean; Casimir Lewandowski, nectady; :Emanuel Dejnozka, Rock Schenectady; Sidney Lewis, Troy; City Falls; Robert Denzler, Wil~ Char'les M. Little, Minneapolis; mington, Del.; Marlin Depp, Peeks- James H. Lottridge, 2nd, Rensse- kill; Louis DiDomenico, Newark, N. Iaer; John J. Lynch, Saratoga Spa; J.; Douglas R. MacElroy, Jonesville; Also Howard E. Sands, Jr., Up- Robert S. Madigan, Binghamton; per Montclair, N. J.; Athur San- Willar·d L. Male, Schenectady; Wil- tora, Schenectady; Kurt H. Sch.ae- iiam E. Maloney, Wyantskill. ---0,--- Fox Discusses the Power· Of Tradition in Chapel Accumulated Knowledge backed by accumulated Savings will practically insure a successful career Each requ 1res a firm will and fixed purpose fer, Gloversville; Thomas Scher-. Louis C. Maples, Norwich, Conn .. ; merhorn, Schenectady; Philmore Clyde B. Marshall, jr.. Roslyn Schiff, Schenectady; Sherwin Sell- Heights, L. I.; Maxime A. Mayo, rade, Duanesburg; Harold ·L. Cohoes; Charles P. McCarthy, Schultz, Brockton, Mass.; John H. Watervliet; Cromwell Mcintosh, Schultz, Schenectady; George T. Kenmore; Jobn L. McKeever, Phila- Scott, Stillwater; James W. Scott, delphia, Penn.; Dominick Mele, Jr., Eingston; Stephen M. Scott, Schenectady; Orville A. Merchant, Schenectady; James A. Scully, Amsterdam; Alexander H. Merri- Schenectady; Henry M. Seider, Bay man, Bristol, Conn.; Frank P. Mi- Shore, L. I.; Alfred Seigle, Broolt:- care, Albany; Marvin M:. Miller, lyn; Robert H. Shaw, Middlegrovc; Ballston Spa; William R. Moran, Robert B. Shepard, Jr., Glen Ridge, Albany; James F. Moran,jr., Olean; N. J.; :Edward R. Shaffer, Schenec- George F. Muir, Tuxedo Park; Wil- tady; Grant Smith, Schenectady; liam 'VV. Mulvey, Schenectady; Mei- Vincellt Smith, Schenectady; Jer- vin Muroff, Brooklyn; James B. orne Spellman, Brooklyn; Cbarlcs Murphy, Schenectady; Samuel A. D. Spohr, Chatham, N. J.; Dale M. Musto, Nicholson, Penna.; Harry Springsted, Schenectady; Charles B. Myers, Albany; Lionel H. Naum, N. Stewart, jr., Rensselaer; Fred- Albany; John C. Nott, New York; eric Stoughton, New York; John Bernard Olender, Am.sterdam; Swanker, Amsterdam; William E. George E. Otis, Albany; Elind C . Swanson, Schenectady; R<lbert T. Parker, Granville; Grant N. Par- Symonds, Waban, Mass.; James T. ker, Geneseo; Fred Patrie, Albany; Taafe, jr., Albany; Alfred H. Tan- Ralph S. Pearce, Watervliet; John ner, Rensselaerville; Joseph Tea- M. Perry, Schenectady; Theodore han, Schuylerville; Robert M. Tern- A. Podbielski, Schenectady; Nor- pleton, Gloversville; George w. man Pomerantz, Albany; Joseph N. Theissen, Schenectady; Howard M. Potenza, The Bronx;. William Thompson, Troy; Louis W. Thomp- H. Price, Ballston Lake; Robert son, Schenectady; Robert v. w. Rankine, Bloomfield, N. J.; Wil- Tiffany, Nayclt; Carl R. Trahaman, liam H. Reddish, Watervliet; Pres- Bloomfield, N. J.; Russell Trudell, ton T. Reed, Hartsdale; Joseph · i Scotia; Edward Van Auken, Me- Reichal, Monroe; Kenneth W. dusa; Marion Vandiver, Elmira; .. Reinhardt, Woodhaven; Nicholas John W. VanLaalt, Schenectady; Renchkovsky, Watervliet; Robert Robert A. Van Nordstrand, Sche- D. Richardson, Bloomfield, N. J.; nectady; Harlan C, Voorhees,· Chi- Arnold 0. Riley, Dolgeville; J. cago·; Lang.do:J;l A. Wagoner, Scotia; Newton Ritchey, Schenectady; Tom S. Ward, Garden City, L. I.; Walter G. Robbins, South Glens David Waters, Schenectady; Lloyd Falls; William C. Robbi.ns, Sche- B. Waters, jr., Petersburg; Chatles nectady; Foster H. Robert, Center Wiberley, Troy; Claude Wiley, Moriches; Edward B. Roickle, Chazy; Edward Wickert, jr,, AI- Fonda; Donald G. Roy, Amster- bany; Joseph L. Wilson, Amster- dam; Robert ·L. Royal, Whitehall; UNION COLLEGE dam; Matthew W. Wilson, Schenec- Edwin G. Ryan, Delmar . . i tady; lDiwood Wisenburn, South . ·: ;Bethlehem; John S. Wold, Schenec- : tady. Also :Edward DiMezza, Amster- dam; Robert Doig, Erie, Pa.; Geo.rll'e Doyle, Cohoes; Edson Dra- pm·, Rocky )\'[aunt, N. C.; Philip Duchscherer, Kenmore.;. Howard E. STUDENT COUNCIL NOTICE The first regular meeting of the Student Council will be held in the regular Student Council office in North College at 7:30 o'clock tomorrow night. i I\'\';\~ I: II~ II: II~ 1111 II I IIIII\ 11111111111111111\ 1111 i ill Ill i IIIII Iii i \\ i iiiiil ii 1111 = = - - - - ~ § : GAZETTE PRESS ~ - - - : ~ ~· - - - - = - - = - = ~ IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU IIJIIIIJIJJ UUIIII.Iti.IIUJIIIU!liUili.IIIUI U1 U 1111111111111111111111.11111 tij BOOK STORE Room '5' Administration Building FOR ALL COURSES Complete Line of Fountain Pens., Laundry Bags Felt Goods, and Stationery Regular Hours 8 :45-· 12:00 1:15- 5:00 Hours I st 6 Weeks 8:45-12:30 I :00- 5:00 First Choir rehearsal wiH be held Friday, September 21 at 2:30 in the Memmial Chapel. Dr. ,ElmH · A. Tidmarsh IequeEts that aH old members endeavor to be present.· Thet e wll'l also be an opportunity f9r students wishing to try out fer the 01ganization to· do so at thiE time. 430 SMITH ST. Fratert:~ity Printing a Specialty The cheil will make its first ap- pearance this Sunday at the 1 egu· Jar c·hapel services which will be broadcast over WGY as mual. SHAW-WALKER OFFICE :EQUIPMENT THE ACME BARBER SHOP Welcomes the Freshmen Union College 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAM PUS THE UNIO'N INN 517 UNION ST . WELCOMES of UNION COLLEGE FRESHMEN TO ENJOY ITS TASTY DRINKS and HOME MADE SANDWICHES

Four Hatfield Has Hopes Despite Few Men Sophomores Prove Ability in First Scrimmage; N agus- zewski Unable to Play By 1\ULTON BEDELL Although th~ first varsity foot- ball scrimmage was held during a heavy rainstorm Saturday, Coach G. Elliot Hatfield and the new line coaches, Arthur Lawrence and Cecil Cantrill, were well pleased with the results. The scrimmage wa,; held primarily \{) determine the weaknesses of the team as a whole. It is from this angle that that Coach Hatfield terms it a suc- cess, also adding that it was more satisfact01y than he had antici- pated. With eight letter·men returning to the roster and a number of last THE GONCORDIENS.lS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1934 Looks Confident I By MIUfON A. BERGER year's freshman team to strengthc en the squad, Coach Hatifeld is slightly optimis- tic for the pros- pects of this year's outfit. Captain \Chip\ Dain, Ralph \El- mer the Gt·eat\ S em era d, AI Stevenson, Jack Finch, Van Wal- d r o n, Charlie K r u 11, \Jiggs\ Rotunda, a n d Doug Lambeth are the letter- Hockey Rink Being Built On Grounds Coach Hatfield ought to be convinced that Shakespeale was really a philosopher. The slings and anows of out-rageous fOI tune are having their effeet on the gridiron mentor. Although last year's outfit was only medioc1e, prospects for this fal-l seemed br-ight at tha-t time. The l-ine would suffer only moderately fr·om .grad-uation. The -los5 of Captain Aus-tin F-ox, all-stale center, who has had three yea1s of varsity play was of major propol'tions, but the availability of Leon Naguszewsk-i fo1 the 19:H eleven was expected to ease the situa:tion. Hany Ch1ysler and Tom Acheson would be misEing hom the backfield, but there wa13 a wealth of fl eshman mate1 ial. Then came the st01m. Rey Crane went to Medical school; Art Greenbe1g went to Law school; Jack Kearns be-· came ineligible, and: then the loss of Don Moulton. Now to c·ap the: climax comes the report that Naguszewski will be unable to pl·ay be- cause of pa1ent's objecti-ons. The1e is a deaith of gua·1ds and end.s. Sophommes a1e th~ answer to the question whdher Union's line will hold this year. Thete is w little reserve matelial that Ccach Hatfield will have no <:boice but to use these second year men. The success of last yea1 's flosh team augms well for their ability. During the summer Coach Hatiield sent manuscript copies of a new book on footba.ll gene.ralshi[J 1 a pruject upon which he has been \~()rltiDg for yean, to the assistant coa.ches and to the qwuterbaclts of the Garnet team. \Chip\ -Daln and Ralph Semerad will proba.bly both see a.ction as quarterback, the other playing half. Jtggs Ro- tunda- and Frank Connt!I;v hav~ been s-hifted to the line as has Joe Milano; who will now play end as he did' In high school and ()n the 1932 f-rosh team. Ernie BrtJwn, captah1- of• last year's undefea-ted. eleven. is the leading candidlate for the fullbaclt post. Although fairly light, he is a hard hitter arnd- a shifty open field runner. AI Steve11son, has bee11 shifted to his old place in the ba.cldield after playing end last fall. Milte Lavorgna, fr()Sh star two years a.go, is finally eligible a.11d his 175 pounds should prove valuable bel!ind the line, Guy Griswold has obtained per-mission to play and malre a. speeialty of passing. Don Uffit~m, Red Burton, LaiTy Clint~n, Hughes and Haskell will com,plde tlr.e backfield list of ca11didates. men who have reported for practice. Of the mem- bers of the junior class, those who have shown the most promise to date are Emery Burton, Joe Milano, Frank Connelly, Guy Griswold, and Mike Lavorgna. Nag Not to Play Student FERA Labor Doing Major Part of Work on Rink Supplied by Brook Union College's hockey team will have a practice rink on the campus this year, it was announced by Pro- fessor Anthony Hoadley, bursar. A new rinlt will be built on the foot- ball practice field at the point where it is intersected by the col- lege brook. Dur·ing the last season the hockey team was forced to do all practicing and playing at Maria- ville. The loss of Leon Naguszewski, who is unable to secure permission to play, has been a great blow to Coach Hatfield. His intentions earl- ier in the season were to build his entire defense around this one lineman. Besides being a fine cen- ter or guard, Naguszewski has the ability to keep his teammates in good spirits and build up the en- tire morale of the team. In ad- dition to this loss to the elev- en, two of last year's men, Rog- er Kendrick and J a c k Kearns, will be ineligible, and a bad lmee w iII probably keep Phil Little out of action for This new rink, which will replace the Ryder rink which was convert- ed into permanent tennis courts last summer, is to be built almost entirely by student FERA labor. The work of setting concrete forms and the pouring of the concrete, however, has been given the Noon- an Construction Company of Sara- toga, which submitted the low bid. Van Waldron, with increased speed, shiftiness, and confidence ob- tained in basketball and lacrosse should show improvement as a wing- man. Jack Sloatman and Jim Doyle, of the 1~33 yearlings will contest the end pos-itions. Doug Lambeth and Joe Agius ate the two veteran tackles who are receiving stiff competition from Gatchell, a 200 pound sophomore, and Cambell, 170 pounds. Rotunda is being hied out as a running guard. Finch and Barton are expected to take care of t-he cen- ter post. In closing-Austin Fox, last year's football captain, has agreed to write a :;elies of columns on the p10spects of the 1935 eleven. vVatch fat this featm e ln Fi iday's Concordy. the entire sea- :;:;::::;;;.,..,,....,.....;;:;::::.;:;;: son. New Equipment The new tackling arrangement that looms up in back of the grand- stand seems to be causing a little difficulty. It is expected, however, that it will be ready fof use some- time this week. Offsetting these discouraging fac- tors h; the news that the candidates from the 1933 freshman team seem to be filling in the gaps nicely. Two, and possibly more, berths will doubtlessy be filled by these men. Those who have shown the most promise are Bob Barton, who has been doing splendid work at cen- ter, Jack Sloatman, Duke Fenton, Bob Liffiton, Larry Clinton, Ernie Brown, Paul Campbell, and Bill Potts. Other sophomore candidates include Jim Riggs, Fox, Wally Hughes, George Haskell, and Frank Gatchell. • • Who made Fred Parks alias Ned Sparks awfully ang1·y yesterday morning when they tried to play the man on the flying trape~e act on the newly constructed tackling Contraption and broke it up? .. . . Ernie Brown and Bob Barton both looked good in the scrimmage held Saturday and should go places this year. • * .. It looks like a bunch of huskies for· the freshman team this year. Nels Nitchman was taking quite a beating ft om seven of them early yesterday afte1 noon. • • • Coach Hatfield was wondering how far Fred Parks would fly if one of the guide wires happened to snap while he was tinkering with it. And vice versa. ----o------------------ Football Tickets Students will be required to pro- cure tickets for their seats in the Cheering Section for each varsity game. These may be obtained by presentation of the athletic tick- ets at the gymnasium office. Ad- mittance to the Cheering Section will be denied to all- non-holders by the ushers. Athletic Tickets FERA Labor Preliminary surveying and the making of plans f<Jr the rink were made by students employed by FERA, under the direction of Hen- ry A. Schauffler. Two retaining========================~====== Athletic Department Notices Athletic Injuries walls will be built, one at the down- stream end of the brook and one along the side, the other two sides of the rink being supplied by the natural formation of the brook's bank. A retaining dam. to impound water for the pool, will be built upstream. The flow of the stream, other than what is needed to fill the rinlt, which measures 100x200 feet will be diverted around it. These plans were submitted for inspection to Professor Hoadley and to Leslie G. Holleran '06, prom- inent construction engineer, and, but for the substitution of concrete core for puddle c<Jre walls, were approved by them. 'I'he Department of Physical Edu- cation and Athletics will not be re- sponsible for injuries sustained by persons engaged in, or watching athletic events of any nat.ur~. First aid treatment will be administered free of charge to all contestants of the College by the physicians and the trainer, during their regular of- fice hours, at the gymnasium ONLY. Violators of this rule will be per- manently excluded from the use of the facilities. Frosh Gym Equipment Frosh Gym Equipment will be is- sued from the Gymnasium Stoel!- room between the hours of 1 p. m. and 5 p. m. upon presentation of the Bursar's receipt. Lockers will also be assigned at this time, upon payment of One Dollar deposit which will be 1efunded In June. Night Games In addition to the facilities for filling the rink with brook water, pr<>vlsion will be made for surface flooding by connection a pipe line to it from the city water main, As was the case with the Ryder rink, there will be floodlights to enable the team to play night games. The construction worlt wiil be under the supervision of Mr. Schau- ffler. ---0--- Inexperienced Frosh Line Is \V orrying Nitchman The undefeated record of the freshman football team for the past three years, seems seriously endangered this year, according to Coach Nelson Nitchman. After a fairly good start, the candidates are dwindling away to next to nothing f()r the apparent reason that their schedules appear to be much harder than was anticipated. About forty men reported when the first call to practice was is- sued. This number has melted slow- ly away, and much excellent mate- rial lost. The chief worry of the Frush mentor is his line. Most of the men lack experience and the new style of play that is to be used this year is greatly confusing to them. The outstanding linemen at this time are Chapin, Brown, Smith, Greulick, Todd, Little, Day, Cor- nell, Taaffe, and Wiley. These are out working hard for positions and wil-l probably form the first team when the opening whistle blows. Inter-GrourJ Athletics Athletic managers of all frater- nity and group teams will be re- quired to file a written entry for their teams for all sports fostered by the Department if they wish to have their teams compete. Adequate notice will be given concerning each event at the proper time. I11ter-fraternity Touch Football Entries for this event will close Monday, September 24 at 5 p. m. The athletic managers of each fra- ternity or group team must file a written entry with the Department of Physical Education and Athle- tics and sign his name to the entry. Subsequent annom1cements will be made regarding the schedule. No late entries will be accepted. Because of the limited facilities available for this activity, it is deemed advisable to conduct the competition on an elimination basis rather than a round-robin. Managerial Candidates Members of the sophomore class who wish to compete for the man- agerial positions of the Fall sports teams are requested to report to Professor Wittner's office in the gy-mnasium at once. Under the system, in force this season, more than one candidate with the same club <Jr fraternity af· filiation can compete simul- taneously. Intramural Fall Tennis Entries for this event will close on Monday, September 24 at 5 p. m. Each contestant must file his entry with the Department of Physical Education and Athletics. No post entries will be accepted. TENNIS COURT RULES 1. Students and Faculty only shall be permitted the use of the courts. 2. The Department of Physical Education and Athletics having incurred considerable expense in reconditioning the tennis com ts it is deemed necessary to enforc~ more stringently, the rules gov- erning their -use. It is hoped that all students will heartily co-oper- ate in the observance of the rules. Violators will be denied the privilege of using the courts. All players MUST wear TENNIS SHOES with soft pliable soles. <Basketball and other types of shoes are not acceptable). 3. Children of the Faculty mem- bers shall be permitted the use · of the courts if any are vacant but NEVER to the exclusion of two above named groups. 4. Doubles should be played whenever possible so as to in- sure use of the courts to the maximum number of players. 5. If persons are waiting to play, both singles and doubles matches are to be permitted to finish their set before :vacating. In the event that the set goes to dettce play shall stop at once. 6. Play on Sunday shall be re- stricted to the hours of 1 p. m. to 5:30 p. m., and all player·s must be dressed in a CLEAN WHITE costume. 7. Workmen engaged In repair- ing or marking the courts are to be permitted to complete their taslt before play can start. 8. The tennis courts will close daily at 5 :30 p. m. The issuance of the Athletic tick- ets will be made from the stock room in the basement in the Gym- nasium between 1 p. m. and 5 p. m. upon presentation of receipt from the Bursar showing that the appli- cant has paid his athletic tax or 'that its payment has been arranged for. In the backfield will be seen Pa- trie, Farr, Jung, Podbielski, Mc- Carthy, and Agostino. These men are causing Nitdrman less worry than his -line because of their ex- perience and natural ability. Contestants will have to supply their own rackets and halls for all matches. This event will be con- ducted on an individual !'ather than a team basis. The first yearling game is on October 13 with Gloversville High Use of Gym School, here on Alexander Field. The gymnasium floor having The youngsters from the glove city refinished, it is necessary that a!'e expected to give stiff opposic observance of the rules per- tlon to this year's freshman aggre- • \'-'\'T\' to its use be adhered to. gatlon, and a good game should be The wearing of clean rubber soled the result. al:loes is required of .all. 9, U!:!e of the indoor court on the gymnasium floor will be re- · served for the varsity squad when inclement weather prohib- its their practice outdoors. 10. The earctalter shall be sole judge as to the use of the courts after rainy weather. FINANCIAL REPORT FOR DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND ATHLETICS UNION COLLEGE FOR THE YEAR ENDING JULY 31, 1934 STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AS OF JULY 31, 1934 ASSETS Cash-schenectady Trust Company ............ $2,759.86 Reser·ve-Scbellectady Savings l:Sanlt . . . . . . . . . . . 6,000.00 $8,759.86 Prepaid Expense ............ , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 886.41 Total Assets .............................. UABlLITIES Surplus On hand Aug. 1, 1933 ....................... , .$5,821.25 From operation 1~33-34 ('rabies I and Ill ...... 2,421.99 $8,243.24 Less Special Expense ('rable IIIl , ............ 4,596.!l7 Net Surplus July 31, 1934 ...... , .... , ....... . Re10er-ve Fund On hand Aug. 1, 1933 ......................... $6,000.00 Added for- year 1933-34 ...................... , 00.00 On hand July 31, 1934 .......................... . •rota! Liabilities ................. , ..... , ... . TABLE I INCOME FOU. YEAR ENDING JULY 31, 1934 $9,646.27 $3,646.27 $6,000.()0 $~.646.27 Student Tax: ....................... , ..................... $1~.950.50 Sports Guarantees received ...... , ........... , ....... , ....... . Gate receipts ............. , ........... , .... , . , ........ . Sale of Gymnasium Equipment ......... , ............... . Interest on Bank Account ............. , , ........... , ... . Alunmi Gift Fund .........•.... , ....................... . 4,230.00 5,415.95 60.50 169.23 15.00 Total Receipts . , ......................... , ........... $29,841.18 TABLE II EXPENDITUHES 'f'OR YEAR ENDING JULY 31, 1934 SPORTS <Schedule I) Guarantees ......... , ..... , ...•............ , .$5,723.50 Trip Expense •...... , ........................ 4,275.50 Home Ex.pense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,364.24 Supplies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,324.24 $16,687.48 1,1~3.02 Intramural ..... , ....................... , ... . GENERAL EXPENSE Advertising ............................. , ... , Association dues ......... , . , ... , ....... , . , .. Athletic injuries ............................ . B'ield Equipment ........................... . Field Maintenance ..................... , ... . 363.73 120.00 506.27 613.61 810.46 Freight & Express ............... , .......... . Laundry .................................... . Office Expense .............. , ....... , ...... . Photographs ........................ , ...... . Salaries .. , ................................. . Seasonal Coaching ......................... . Ticltets and Printing ....................... . Travel Expense .................... , ....... . 51.23 487.16 303.67 53.85 5,405.~6 598.00 166.75 58.00 9,538.69 $27,419.19 Total for Year 1933-34 . , ............. , .... . TABLE Ill SPECIAL EXPENDITURES FOR YEAR 1933-1934 Painting .Gymnasi;tm ........ , .................. , ......... $ 777.08 Resu_rfacmg Tenms Com ts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,009.14 Vars1ty Hockey ...... , ....... , ...................... , . . . . . 278.61 Indoor Batting Cage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 532.14 I f 3 $4,596.97 ncome: or year 193 -34 <Table!) , .................... , , .$29841.18 Expendrtures for year 1933-34 <Table Ill ................. 27:419.19 ~~~~~ for year 1933-34 ......... , ....... , ........ , .. , .•. $ 2,421.99 Special Expenditures for year 1933-34 <Table III) have been charged against the accumulated surplus of the department This amount ($4,596.97) exceeds the surplus for the year by $2,174.98. SCHEDULE I DI~TAIL OF SPORTS AND DISBURSEMENTS SEASON 1933-1934 DISBUR..\lEl.UENTS Sport Gua1•antee Trip Freshman Football .... $ 95 $133.10 Varsity Football ...... 2650: 832.50 Varsity Cross-Country. 135. 249.35 Varsity Basketball . . . . 700. 717.88 Varsity Swimming . . . . 265. 377.40 Indoor Traclt ..... , . . . 5~.12 Home $103.65 728.44 1.90 162.90 45.15 Baseball .......... , . . . 751. 644.05 103.30 Tennis . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135. 111.10 5.00 Track . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 465. 555.85 43.70 Lacrosse . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 502. 555.85 108 65 Golf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.50 3~.30 61:55 $5723.50 $4275.50 $1364.24 Supplies Total $ 408.65 $ 740.40 1468.41 5679.35 309.31 695.56 352.1~ 19:32.97 29.72 717.27 33.54 92.66 974.01 2472.36 140.17 391.27 632.64 1697.19 876.39 2042.89 99.21 225.66 $5324.24 $16,687.48 Sport Gu.arantlll' Gate Total Freshman Football .. $ 125 . Profit Loss V Vars!tty FCootball ..... 1,650. 4,665.26 $6 132155.26 635.91 $ 615.40 ars! y loss-County. 175. • · Varsrty Basketball . . . 740. 351 . 7 ~ 175 · 520.56 Varsity Swimming . . 160. 10 . 25 1 ,091.79 841.18 Indoor Track . . . . . . . . l70.25 547.02 Baseball . • . . . . . . . . . . . 560 3 938 . 05 92.66 Tennis .. _ . . . . . . . . . . . · 78 · 05 1,534.31 Track •.... , . . . . . . . . . 4 ~g: 10 . 60 4 ~8: 60 296.27 Lacrosse . . . . . . . . . . . . 275. 275 1,236.59 Golf ..•.. _ ........ , .• · 1,767.89 Total Loss ..•........ ~:· 230 • $ 5 • 415 · 95 $9,645.95 $635.91 $7 ~~~:7~ '.rota! Profit ........... : : : : :: • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · •.•.• $7;677.44 .......... ' ..... '...... 635 91 Net Loss on Spor'ts . . . . . . . ..................•................ $7,041.53 •. _;Mode Matu Seriousn Neces Presi( Because in any n: ,di-rect ra:l life in tl:: it is nece1 \. today des ·more car :\ cessors d ''i Fox, new ;t lege, in h ' 1 1938 ThUl ',!; ,- It is ne ¥. come full ·~ of their o '' has been ,, lt'ox cant eludes an for real ford less freshmen America:.' The in• ing alive speeding Fox poin i' ;:- has sens• pace and educatiot .. harder, i needs of Dr. F< lows: \'l ambitiou rect rati ards of 1 tige and rigid sta few yout dedicate souled e acting t: mature 1 these fa student of the .A \Durir way of: ably bee country still the free lan is going in this has beet ditions and En1 \The youth \\ ., ous, mo: We can our inf< ury! It sign yo \The partner promisi Bosto Ba1·it The J and J1 been at attract Associa tady tl' a worlc nounce bershii= as the Stud1 of $2.51 numbe obtain I tickets certs. bers w of the on the the n organi city of The appeal be COl sevitzE . who i: arches persor the p g!orio1 Jolu one oJ in the Marcl year -1 numb• made seaso:i debut Travi: twent versa:· tatio11 on th Stu cured avail<

= 36 H 27 27 .00 .27 .50 . 00 .95 .50 .23 •.00 .. 18 r.48 ~.02 8.69 9,19 '7.08 .9.14 ~8.61 12.14 16.97 b1.18 L9.19 n.99 'een This otal 40.40 79.35 ;95.56 32.97 \17.27 92.66 ,72.36 :91.27 ;97.19 )42.89 !25.56 ;87.48 ..oss l15.40 )20.56 141.18 >47.02 92.66 534.31 296.27 236.59 767.89 225.56 377.44 677.44 335.91 041.53 'THE GONCORDIENSIS, 'l'UESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1934 Five 1 Modern Life Aids :neltaUpsilonHolds 500 Year Old ·Tr I ing when he retired in- 1932. He ee taught one year at Georsetown College, two at Oberlin, thirty at Colby, and eight at Union ·college. His special field was that of Amer- ican Colonial history, but his fav- Dr. r.l'homas \\\ilson Makes Scientific Contri but ion manganese bronze and others, the definite location of the manganese atoms is expected to lead to great increase in the variety and useful- . ness of the alloys, for in the past it has happened that the deter- mination of the complete crystal structure of the different metals and alloys f0rmed by them has led to ·increased variety and greater usefulness of the alloys. l Maturity, Says Fox ,National Confab Will Soon Be Goue A far greater variety of Bteels and alloyB r·equidng manganese is now possible because of the infor· mation made available to metalur- gists today by Dr. Thomas A. Wil- son, associa-te professor· -in the chemistry department, in his paper on the crystal structu1•e of alpha n\angauese given before the nation- al convention of the American Chemical Society in Cleveland. j Seriousness, Careful Planning . Williams College Is Scene of Necessary for Success, ;New lOOth Anniversary Celebra- President Tells Freshmen; tion; Thirty Here Attend Because the seriousness of youth! The lOOth anniversary of the in any nation or commun_ity is in founding of Delta Upsi'lon was held ·direct ra:tio with the diffiCulty. of at Williams CoHege in Williams- life in that nation or commumty,; : . Few leaves will fall from Nott orite platform subject was Wood- Elm this l<'all. When in 1908 the row Wilson. He was once cone- class of '09, following the sugges- spondent for the New York Tri- tion of Doctor Vi/. T. Hotnady, · bune and Boston Transcript, editor made plans to 1 evive the Elm they of Colby's publications for ten we1 e told that the ti ee had but years, and contributor to the state twenty mme yea1s to live. historical society publications of Today the Elm is no less than M:aryland and Maine of which he . was also a member. five hundred years old. Since re- , He is survived by his wife, his pairs were made in 1908 .by He1 man son, Dr. Stanley Rober·t Black, and W. M:erkel, hee ex:pe1 t of the New s d it is necessary that college student~: town, ~ass., the bathplace of the \ today design their lives earlier\ and~ ilateJmty, ·on September 13, 14, 15 .• 1. more carefully than th:eir pRrede-' .and 16th. I cessors declaJed Dr. Dixon yan: The delegates f1om Union who ·~t Fox, new president of Union Col- attend·ed the enthe convention we1e (' lege, in his greeting. to the class ot' William H. l<''itzgerald '35 and John . York zo-ological Park, canied out two .grandchildren, usan an .undn the d·ilection of Doctor Dwight of Worcester; his mother, :James H. StoHet '84, pro-fessoJ M:rs. Ellen Black of Baltimore and emelitus of geology, the great elm Nerthampton, and two sisters, Mrs. has been given seven·ty-five mOle William J. Dingledine and M:iss Dr. Wilson also introuuced a new method for determining the crystal structure of complex crystals which hitherto have not permitted the def- inite location of their atoms by known means of measurement. Dr. Wilson ·became interested in the subject in 1925 when it was learned that alpha maganese pos- sesses· a cubic type of crystal structure containing fifty-eight atoms. As investigators tried and failed to locate these atoms, he took an increasingly active interest a-nd in 1932 began an intensive rcBear•ch into the problem. 1938 Thursday mornmg. Atget'singer '35, alternate. yea1s in which to live. Nannie Black. He was trustee of the Davenport Library, Squirrel Island, 28 years and was an officer for more than 38 years of the Colby and Union chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. ';l It is necessary for students to be· Delegates from the fifty-nine Soon this tree, which to many is · t · th t · chapters 1'n the ·u.n1'ted Sta.t-e·s and :as noted as the Chal ter Oak will . ·.~. come full par ners m e en. -erpr1se h ' of their own training, more so than Canada asse·nibled at Williamstown ,cease to 8 eHei the Class Day Exe1· ,, t . th st D on Thursday morning and aftei cises of Union giaduates, a duty 'l: ~~~ bce;:ti~~eg_m~.A ~~~d ed~~g~ i~~ regishation the fil·st meeting w.as whichtNh ott Elm has performed f·ol '' eludes ample time for healthy sport, called together at Jessup Hall.: m 0 re an seventy yea1s. fDl' 1 eal rest, but students can af- Dean John N. Leonard, Williams·· The Nott Elm which has bem ford less time for loafing than did '15 presented the Address of Wei· the cause .of fav01able comment freshmen in the ol'd free and easy come. Ly-nne J·. Bevan, Chicago from two great Ame·rican natmal- America.\ '03, presid·ent of the Fratein>ily next ists, John Audubon and John Bm- eXJtended his greetings to the dele- . 1 ougbs, will be a thing of the past, The funeral was held Thursday, September sixth at Baltimore. ---10---- Thil'ty-Five Men Appear For Glee Club T1·youts The increasing difficulty of stay- gates and vis.iting brothers. .but in it-s place will stand an Elm ing alive is -resulting, he said, in Beginning Thmsday aftemoon that has sprung up from one of the The Glee Club held its annual speeding .the maturity of youth. Dr·· bu-siness sessions wele held Jegu- noted tree's seeds. tiy outs Monday afternoon. Ap· l!'ox pointed out that Union College larly in both the mor·ning and In the nU!sery that thrives in the proximately thirty five men had ... has sensed this need for quickened a-fte-rnoon thlOugh Satmday w.hen pastUJe are young Nett Elm off. their voic€s tested, among whom Because m11nganese -is an impor· tant metal in alloys such as man- ganese steels, Hensler alloys (mag- netic without containing ironl, ----0--- GARNE'.r GOBLINS All men interested in trying out for the Garnet Goblins, the college dance orchestra, will please report at Hanna Hall, Friday afternoon at three o'clock. Freshmen- pace and has devised a new plan of the business <Jf the .ll'Iaternity was springs. These saplings may be· are several freshman who show a education which, although perhaps completed. During the comse of purchased from the college. Ac- gteat deal of promise. Trials sched- '·: harder, is more responsive to the the sessions it was vot€d by the cording to a New York State Law, uled for this afternoon will be held needs of the students. convention to accept two new chap-. however, the tt ees may not be ex- tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 in m it . d t m Speech in Pati teJS into the FJaternity. The new ported from the state. Hanna Hall. Anyone who is inter- m IS your uty to suppor Ill Dr. Fo:x's address, in part, fol- chapte1s admitted we1e Pi Epsilon <J ested is e-ligible to try out for the ::: ::: f th U · ·t f Alb t c club. Ful'l 1 ehearsal for all mem- ... ... ~:~Iu~~heyo~~cif; l~,~~i~y;~ei~ ;~ ~da-~r. ~~:~!~~e~ Dea~ 1 o~' A.:ts: .Retired History Pl'ofessor beJS, who Weie accepted at tlial !,_,l ... ~·.· college functions and stu- i:··i:'.l,_· t t t th p· M:onday and Wednesday, wlll meet rect ratio to the prevailing stand- was presen ° replesen e 1 Doctor J. W. Black, Dies at 3:30 in Hanna Hall tomonow. :.:.:. :.:.:. a rds of public respect. Where pres· Epsi!<Jn ChapteJ-and Chi Omega S d t bl\ t• t ige and power rest ·on high and Psi of the University of British ophomores wishing to compete ! ... '.:.!_._ en pu· •ca IOns. :_:_1,! .. _ ...., 1 b' 1 f c d s 1 for assistant manager should report a rigid standards, the comparatively \' 0 urn la, a so 0 ana a. evera Dr. J. William Black, retired pl'O- either to Dr. Tidmarsh or Donald iii !i! fe \' young men who asp1're to them ·Jequests f-or admission were Je~ fesso1· of history at Un1'on College, dedicate themselves with whole-· jected' and one t-abled until the next di·ed in the. early morning of Sep- C. Hawkes, Psi Upsilon House. ;;; m souled eari1estness to the long, ex- convention. It was also d-ecided at tember third from a Jin,gering ill- m m acting task of 1·eaching them, and the business sessions to hold the ness at the Worcester, M:ass., :M;em- FRANK FERRARO in lli mature rapidly. In appreciation o1 next convention at Oklahoma City, aria! Hospital to which he had been F1·uit and Produce m m these facts, the English or French Oklahoma. taken two weeks ago from his sum- m Hi St t N' ht The best, for the least, with ... y ... .. student is one to two years ahead un tg ~ter home at SqudirbrelpislaJ?-dd,,MtaDiJ?-e, dependable service. ill ou-=- Hi of the American. Entertainment was provided in 1 was announce y res1 e11 · 1:x- ::: - ::: \During the ·pa-st fifty years the the evenlngs for the visiting dele- on Ryan Fox. Dr. Black was in 1231 Ot·ane St. m jH way of youth in America has prob: .. _gates and guests. Thursday evening· his 68th year. Tel. 2-7828-W ;;; m ably been easier than,in any othm vva& designated as stunt night at ~~H~e~c~o~m~p~le~t~e~d~41~y~e~a~r~s~o~f~t~e~a~c~h~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ m m country in the world~ AmeriGa is the WilJ.iams Chapter Hom:e. The/~ ill th f bl• t d t li! 1fiJf.rfb!~~~T~i.~a ~~~~f~~;~:~~;,~-;~~}~, Here's how! To all you upper ·_.:.:·_ .. il_.. :~:ron~:: t~:e a~v~;~s:rs o~ : ... 11 ...... 1 has been required before. Our con- pated in th·e events on the prOgram. ~~~o;ng~~~~oach those of France !\:~r:x afi8~~pi~ ~~~lc~~ a~~rch~:: classmen and greetings m thisl your COllege paper. m Y:~~~ewi~~e~~o:~e !~~! r!:~r!~~e ~~{f~i~~~~~}~h~fr~i~~ ~:mt~ io the f.rosh.f .. ·····'':· .. ···' .. ···:··' ..... :;·~ ..... ···'.····'··i ' ous, more tesponsible, more mature. Goff '36 JepreS'ente·d Union in the We can no longer afford to p10long orchestra. A play, \The I<\ounding our infancy. It is too great a lux- of OU:r Fraternity,\ was presented ury! It is necessary that you de· by members of the Williams Chap- ;;:;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::::m::::m;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;:;;;;;m;;;m:m;;m;;;m;m;mmmm:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; sign your lives earlier. ter atfer the concert. The play SCHENECTADY'S POPULAR RENDEZVOUS \The College welcomes you a:E showed the reasons for the develop- partners in a difficult but highly ment of a non-secret fraternity at promising intellectual enterprise.\ Williams in 1834. · --~o . Prcse.nt Mem(}t-iai to Williams B t S h F d Saturday .morning a memodal: of· OS On ymp ony, arne the founding <Jf Delta Upsilon was Ba1·itone to Appear Here· presente-d to Williams c~nege in West College. The 10oth anniver- · · saty was terminated Saturday eve- The Boston Symphony Orchestra ning w'ith a banquet in the Grey• and John Charles Thomas ·ha,ve lock Inp. Dr. John ErS'kine .of been announced as two ·of the three Cofumbia University, a well known attractions that the Civic Music writer and .le-ciuter, spoke ·to the Association will bring to Schenec- members present on The F1aternity tady this year. The third concert, and the Co.Jlege. Ot-her speakers . a world famous violinist, will be ap- included the oldest Jiving member nounced la:ter if this week's mem: of .the Williams Chapter, Rev. Dr. bership campaign is as successful· J. GU.bert M:ason, Willi-ams '63 and as the association expects. Dr. Frede•r''ick H. Dill, 0. H. C., the Student memberships, with dues presi'd~nt of Alpha ·Delta Phi. of $2.50, are available to a limited· · The. awal,'i! for the <:hapter ie--.: number. No memberships may be ;ceiv:ing the highest average in the obtained after Saturda:y and no fraternity examination was award- · : ed to the Oklah<Jma Chapter, w:hne tickets will be sold for single con- Union received a cup for the .. bes-t certs. It is improbable that mem- publication for the y.ear 1933-34. · bers will be able to attend concerts of the Albany association this year :Thirty members of the Union Chap- ter attended the convention on Sat- . on their Schenectady cards since urday, September 15. the membership of the former . organization h;;!:S reached the capa- ;::::==============: city of its hall. The Boston Symphony, which will . · CHARLES' Formerly ED'S appear on December 15, will again . be conducted by Dr. Serge Kous- sevitzsky, great Russian director, The Offici'ai UnioH College· Bal'ber for the past 24 yeal's. Ask; any upper classmen,. they know. 11 op~rato•·s. Schenectady's greatest barber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY . who in his ten years with the orchestra has given it a stability of personnel that is considered one of the potent ca:uses of its present ·~::;:;::;::;::::;:;:::::;::;:::;:::;::;::;:::::~ glorious tone and ensemble. ;:: John Charles Thomas, baritone, one of the most .popular recitalists in the country, will be here on · March 4. Mr. Thomas, who last· year -established a recoi·d in the number of appea:rances which he made· in New York City in a single' season, climaxed his career in his. debut at the Metropolitan in \La Traviata,\ when he received a'. twenty minute ovation. :Mr. Thomas•· v:ersa:tility is indicated by his repu- tation as the popularizer of \Home on the Range.\ Student memberships may be pro- cured this week while they remain available at the Student's Store. HOF BRAU· DINE ~~nd DANCE 721 State\·'St. Dancing Ev~ry_ Ni_gbf Except Mondays ---_, C 0 L D s Restaurant ..-. Tap Room' - Delic;.atessen 631 STATE STREET CLARK WITBECK CO. 416-418 STATE ST. Welcome You Back to S,chenectady We Appreciate Your Confidence in Us. \QUALITY HARDWARE SINCE 1870\ RECORDS VICTOR - BRUNSWICK :tNcLUDING CASA LOMA - CROSBY .. LOMBARDO WHITMAN AT BARNEYS ~.· 217 State St. Tel. 4-8411 COME IN AND SEE US There is no question about it! THE TUCK SHOP 722 EASTERN A \'E. IS THE PLACE TO EAT BREAKFAST - LUNCH - DINNER Special Student Meal Tickets CAMPUS CELEBRITY •, ~- ; We Have a Large Assortment of Sporting Goods for Colle~re Men Headquarters for Men 1 s Wear of the Better Grade WHATEVER he does-he does with $tyle and fo'rm. Lil<e Stetson•s eampo.s celebrity- The Bantaln. Air-light. Two ounces of quality felt . Snap the brim down, Shape the -erown to your hear-t•s de:t~ire. Yop'll wear it everywhere, Sport Clothing Gloves Fishing Tackle Raincoats Tem1is - Golf - Basketball Supplies Auto Tires and Supplies ALLING RUBBER CO. 254 STATE ST. STETSON HATS PENN-CRAFT HATS MANHATTAN SHIRTS INTERWOVEN HOSE CORTLEY SHIRTS NICKLAS CLOTHES L. F. NICKLAS, INC. 138 ,JAY STREET •. ·!· •• I • • ·~ THE STETSON BANTAM $5 'fHE2'STETSON PLAYBOY OTHER STETSON'S $6 AND UP John B .. Stetson Compa:ny··

Six Schedule· of Fall Sports Date Sport Sept. 29-Varsity Football Ort. 6- Varsity Football Oct. lS-- Varsity Football Freshman Football Varsity Crot:is-country Oct. 20- Varsity F<>Ol·b:.tll Oct. :Nov. Varsity Cro,;s-country Fr~shman Cross-country Freshman Football 27- Varsity Football Varsity Cross-country Fre8hman Foot-ball Freshman Cross-country 3-Varsity Football Vavsity Cross-country Frl'shman Cross-Pountt·y Nov. 10-- Varsity Football Freshman Football Vatsity Cross-country Nov. 17--Varsity football 'O(Jj)Ollt\Jlt Place \rVcsl~yan Here Hobar-t Geneva Amherst Amherst Glover><ville H. R. Ht>t'e Vet·nmnt Hl're Vrrmont Weslry:m J\H<ldletown Nott TPrrnrP H. S. Here M·itlull'bury I•'wsh Miudlebm y R. P. I. Troy R. P. I. Troy R.P. I. Troy H. P. J. Troy V.'illhrns Here Roches!Pr Rochester c: B. A Hl'te Tinclil'slPr' Hodlr:<ter G1een Mt. Jr, C'olirgE\ HPH' Middlebury Here Hamilton THE CON\CORDi:ENSIS TUESDAY, SE·PTEMBER 18, 1934 Fox: Praises Contribution Of tntJ Old Time Dactors history at Rutgers, Rensselaer and· University of Pennsylvania had es- .Albany Medical School, and wrote tablished professorships in natura,l as his contribution \The Mineral- history; and by the ·latter 1820's it ogy of :New York State,\ a part was customary among libera:J col~ of GovernO!' Seward's natural his- · leges. complish them. Dr. Harold A. Lar- I•abee, professor of Jlhilosophy, ex- plained the general -four year 'Course. The other ·divisional chair- men, Dean Charles ·F. F. Garis, Dean Ernst J. Berg-, and Dr. Har- Stating t)'!at the old time doctor tory survey of the state begun in was the rudimentary nactu-raHst of 1839. Amer:ica, Dr. Dixon Ryacn Fox, The doctor was not wholly con- tent with branching aut into natur- pt·esident of Union College, traced al science alone, he delved -into the ca,reer of the old time d0ctor · many ·other -fields, Dr. Fox con- and his contributions t0 natural .sci- tinued. As an instance Dr. Fox men- ence ·bef 0 re the .Schenectady Coun- tioned Dr. Jacob Green, .professor of chemistry at the Jefferson Med- ty Medical Association at the Ellis leal College after 1822, who pub- . · Hospital Friday afternoon. lished books on electricity, chemi- Typi'cal among doctors leading in cal philosophy, astr.onoiny, trilo- ea.rly nineteenth century natura:! .bites, botany, and the diseases of history, .according to Dr. Fox, were the skin. the brothers T. 'Romeyn and Lewis Piety, Dr. Fox said, came to the Beck, both graduates of Union, support of science, for had science After the completion of his medical attempted to refute religious dog- studies, Romeyn Becl;; laid before ma at that period, the clergy, then the Albany Society of Arts and so powerful, would have suppt'essed Manufactures a long and careful it. The great majority of scientific study of the mineral resources of. men, however, were religious, and the United States. It was his study \sound on the scriptures.\ ---0•--- Divisional Chairmen TeU rison c. Coffin spolie to their re- ·spective •groups. Ft·eshmen Of Their Work OUTING cum MEETING The Class of 1938 gained its first .. acquaintance with rea:! college work , on Saturday when the chairman of There wHl be a meeting of the each division of the college explain- · members of the Outing Club, ed the worlt of his group to the ·stu• , Thursday, September 20, at one ! . dents. These talks were at the con- · , p. m., in Silliman Hall. The pur- . · dusion of the regular orientation pose of the gathevlng will be program for -freshmen, designated · to organize .the program .for the to· acquaint them with work, their fa:Il and to arrange· fol' the ac- instructors and their surroundings. ceptance of members -from the IJlr. Earl E. Cummins; Chairman class of 1938. All F-reshmen in- ·Of the Division of Social Studies: terested in joining the club are told the aims of that div•isi0n and requested to attend. the means whereby he hoped to ac- of minerals in materia medica that Most American schools and col- introduced him to mineralogy and leges paid little attention to natur- thence to natu~al history proper. al science until about 1820. But His brother Lewis, also graduat- Union College, at its founding in ed frorn materia medica into .bot- 1.795, established in its faculty a ' any, became a teacher of botany, professor of natural •Philosophy. By chernistt'Y, pharmacy, and natural 1811, Harvard, Columbia, a-nd the College Supplies QUALITY FOOD- PRICED REASO~NABL Y I~~ j' • ·p • t ~ .t' h I Mlmmum races a IVa In • am s MI·N:HAM'S MEN'S SHOP CROFUT-KNAPP HATS CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET Just Around the Corner from State Strl'et \The Little Shop Cat'ilring t(} Union College Students\ l\11NUAM HARRISON Phone 4-254! Next to the High School Amid Pleasant Surroundings DAlY ASSEMBLY SPEAKI~RS Tomorrow--Professor Harold A. Larrabee. Thursday Professor PetE\r L Wold. Friday-D-r. Elmer A. Tidrnarsh. How Refreshing / START THE YEAR. RICHT Come down and pick out one of our good- looking FALL SUITS or TOPCOATS. They're darn snappy and ihe kind you'll like. The same new styles I you'll see on the cam- I .I pus of any of the lead-· ing eastern colleges. Also Leather Jackets and Slacks for campus wear. The next time you're downtown stop In and we'H show them to you. JOSEPH'S Stan Joseph Union •21 ( The The world's finest tobaccos are used in Luckies-the \Cteam of the Crop\-only the clean center leaves-for the clean center leaves are the ,mildest leaves--....they cost more--they taste better. \It's toasted\ { Your thf'oaf JJrofe&tion-aaoinsl lniiDtlon-agaimt cough l t' .. r--- 1 :. Roe 1 I w I 1-l • 04 • I I .,. _ _._ ....... I I .-~~- l Vol. I ·\ l = Cou1 T .. . ' Defeat : .. ' l'el'l1 Be I \•' Ch< · Williar Dun 'fhe a , ·scraps , was de ·.the firs . of the Amo .dron, t1 manent night B the St that th this ye howeve which l cussion years, l . in the 'commit .Dain, ; Liffitor gate U: 'Council Att A cc 'from tl ing wh vise ct The su sweate1 and th: two si: jo1· a\'\ for mi of the the COf ment this pr instruc _partmE did no At tl ted th year. of the was e: , Counci Ion, W• can ~ ·Theta Nt The headql Studex meetir at thl! rison were rules Dr. Of Dr. - , first cellor day n fore t and s 83rd l \I ity,\ : in off guish sity a partie the e ous s lives, to GE - .. can , \' ·. '\' begin thr.ee Dean lege, learn faith were brilli: tant were with 'fhe mad ward ety. \T the l exan at tl part

Lar- ex- year chair- Garis, . Har- re- the one ! pur-. he the ac- the in- are UNiON COLlEGE LJBnAnr r·~·~-~------l . ' I Renowned . l Org-anist J I Will Play ·I I Here On ;, I . 'I 1 Oct0ber 4 .t I 'I : t ~---~-~~--~~-~- StS r----~--l I Genume 1 · 1 Females to I, 1 Feature Next 1 e Mountebanks I I Production I I I 1-.-----·--------' =-\'==-=-'-~---- ---- PRICE FIVE CENTS Vol. LVIII., No. 2 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1934 •·.· Council Votes To Reinstate Class Fights Defeat Motion to End Scraps ' · Permanently; Custon1 Will Be Resumed Next Year Choose New Officet·s · William Waldron, Austin Fox, . Duncan McNab Are Elected 'fhe annual Freshman-!:lophomore · ·: scmps will be revived next year,. it was decided Wedne~day night at ·. the first Student Council meeting of the year. A motion, made by William Wal- . dron, to abolish these scraps per- manently was defeated, Monday night Ralph Semerad, Chairman o! the Student Council, announced that the fights were cancelled for this year. The Council's decision, however, reinstated the fights, which have been the subject of dis- cussion and change for several · years, so that they will be run off . in the usual manner next year. A 'committee, composed of Charles , Dain, Joseph Milan_o and Donald Liffiton, was appointed to investi- ·gate the scraps and report to the •Council concerning them. Athletic Awards Unchanged A communication was received · from the Athletic Department ask- ing whether the council would ad- vise changing the athletic awards. The suggested change was that all sweaters would be garnet in color and that the block \U\ would be in two sizes, six inches high for ma- jOl' awards and four inches high for minor awards. The recipients of the awards would also pay half the cost of the sweaters. The senti- ment of the Council was against this proposal so the Secretary was instructed to write the Athletic De- . partment stating that the Council did not favor the change. At this meeting the Council elec- ted the remaining officers for the year. William Waldron, a member of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity was elected Vice-Cllairman of the . Council. Austin Fox, of Psi Upsi- lon, was re-elected Treasurer. Dun- can McNab, a member of Beta · Theta Pi, will be th.e new secretary. New Headquarters Selected The council voted to move its headquarters to the of:f'ice of the Student Activities Bureau and the meetings of the Council will be held at this place. Two freshmen, Har- rison Beale and John A. Jordan· were exempted from freshman rules by vote of the Council. 0 Dr. Fox Opens 83t·d Yea1· , Of Albany Law School Retired by Illness CALENDAR TomoiTow Daily As~:~emb]y - Pl•Of. Philip . Mosely, \Some of the Advan- · tages and Disadvantages or History.\ 2:00-Band practice, Alexander ' field. Sunday 11:00-Chapel-Dr. Edward Ei- ' lery, speaker. Monday 10:00--Student body meeting in ; Old Chapel. Tuesday Daily Assembly~Rev. Howard C. Ackley, D. D. World Famous Organist, Gunther Ramin, to Be Here Reknowned German Musician to Join Dupre in List of. Celebrities to Perform Here Ranks With Greatest Famous Organist to Be Pre- sented by Glee Club Oct. 4 F N M A The glee club has completed ar- OUf ew ' en ' re I-angements to ptesent Gunther Add d t F It ·Ramin, otganist of the Church of e 0 a c u . y Saint Thomas, Leipzig, in a recital Walling Resigns As Superintendent Ill Health Causes !Retirement After 27 Y eal's in Cha1·ge of Buildings and Grounds John R. Walling, for twenty-sev- en years superintendent of grounds and buildings of Union, retired June sixteenth. Mr. Walling, who was the first man to produce sugar of milk commercially in America after inventing the process, has been ill recently and his retirement i,; chiefly due to the need for rest. He was seventy-nine in August. Samuel H. Johnson, who has been Mr. Walling's assistant since 1922, has succeeded him as superintend- ent. Mr. Walling has had a most in- teresting career. He was born in Amity, Orange county, on August 3, 1855. He has memories of the Civil War and has lived through several depressions. Ran Four Creameries Mr. Walling entered F'redonia State Normal School and there he met his wife. They both taught for a year. Leaving the school room he joined his brother Brice and started . a manufacturing creamery business in Sussex coun- ty, New Jersey. In four years they had four creameries. Mr. Walling New Members Are Luhr, Rie- now, Smyth, Missall; D1·. Doty Studying in England Four new men, three in the so- cial studies division and one in the mathematics and science division, have been added· to the Union col- lege faculty. Five membet s of last yeax's teaching staff: Professors A. Got don Dewey and Henry A. Schauffler, Jetemy Bagster-<Oollins, Eduardo Gomez-Duran, and Floyd E. Ulrich, have left, while Dr. Leon W. Godshall has t esigned to become head of history and political Ed- ence at Dickinson Junior College in Williamsport, Pa. Profes~:or Overton Luhr joins the staff in the field of physics. He re- ceived his doctorate at the Univet- sity of California in 1931, and bas been insh-uctor in physics at M. L T. fm the last three years. Profes- sor Luhr has. done 1 esearch work in gaseous ions under Loeb and La- mar. Takes Doty's Place Howard M. Smyth, who takes Dr. JoEeph D. Doty's place while the latter is on a year's leave of ab- sence studying in England, joins the field of history. He is a grad- uate of Reed college, and has done gtaduate work at Hatvard, whete he is a candidate for the doct()ra:te. During the last thzee yeazs he has been insh uctor in histm y at Pzince- ton. Robett Rienow, inshuctot· in gov- ernment, is a gt·aduate of Carthage College, and received his master's degree at Columbia. He was Guilder fellow in Political Science in 1933- 1934. was engineer in charge of opera- Was Molt>y AssociatE> tions. With the depression of 1889 the projects failed. Ellsworth Missall has j{)ined the at the Mem01ial Chapel on Thun;- day night, October 4. This ·is the second wotld famous or·ganist to be presented by the Glee Club which sponsored a recital by Marcel Du- pre, French organist, last year. Ramin holds what is decidedly the most historical appointment in Europe, f()r he is organist of the same church in which the great John Sebastian Bach was organist and cator two centuiies ago. In addition Hen Ra.min is professor of Otgan at the Leipzig conserva- tmy, mganist of the Cowandhus 01ch€stla, and professor of mgan at the State Hochschule in Berlin. Union Students Admitted Free In making announcement of the Ramin 1 ecital, Dr. Elmer A. Tid- marsh declared that everything will be done to make it possible f<>r lov- ers of music, especially those of mgan music, to attend. A specially low p1 ice of fifty cents has been set for students of other institu- tions, and one dollar for <>thers. Students of this college will be ad- mitted free of charge. Ramin is retutn.Jng to the United States for his second concert tour because of the incessant demand of those who heatd· him in this coun- tiy a few yeat·s ago. \He goes down in histoz y beside Marcel Dupre for the tumultous enthusiasm his New Yotlc cebut aroused,\ declared T. Scott Bm hman of \The Amet ican Organist.\ YolHlger Than Contempo1•aries Because he is only 36 years old, 01gani~t:: believe that he wi!J be the world's outstanding 01ganist within a few years, for his bl'illiant con- tempotaries are all vety much older than he is. Tickets for the Ramin recital will be on sale at the News bureau, fwm membets of the glee club and at Cluett',; music ::toze. on State sti eet. -- ---()-- --- Many Improvements Made On Campus This Summer In 1906 he came to work for the social studies division as an instruc- General Electric Company in $che- tor in government. He was grad- nectaqy, soon he read an adver- uated from Columbi11 College and tisement for an \engineer for a has a master's degree from Colum- Jarge plant\ and soon discovered It bia Univers·ity, whet e he was Uni- was for the job of supervising the vezsity Scholar the last year. He heat, light, power, grounds, and was assistant to Comptroller Joseph buildings of Union College. He was McGoldi'ick when the latter taught accepted and began his twenty-sev- at Columbia, and has been associ- During lhe summer vacation · t u · · 190 7 ated with Raymond Maley on the en years of servrce a mon m d·t . 1 ff f h · many needed irnprov£ments have under S. B. Pond, then assistant e 1 orra sta · 0 t e magazme Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox made his treasurer. \Today.\ been made at ound the campus. Two . , first official appearance as Chan- Mr. Walling has retired to his Assistant Ptofe~:~:-or B. M. Wain- new macadam paths have been con- cellar of Union University Wednes- home at 1030 Gillespie Street, ger, of the field of English has te- structed. om hom Bailey Hall to day morning when he appeared be- where he will continue his love for tumul fzom a yeat's leave of ab- th p u f ore the Albany Law School faculty e ~i P~ilon cozner, the othEl reading and puttering around his eence at Com ell, whe 1 e he C'Om- and students at the opening of its wot·kshop. pleted wOik f<>r his doctorate. from the ctvil engineeting building 83rd yeat·. to the Delta Upsilon house. Stu- \! greatly value this opportun- dents no longer need to wade ity,\ said Dr. Fox \when so young S L k d ,L • St bl D thr·ough the mud which used t<> col- in office, to meet with these ctistin- omeone OC e 1. nlS · a e oor lect along these paths in the fan To Give Recital Soon GUNTHER RAMIN 149 Upperclassmen Attain Dean 9 s List 96 Seniors and 53 Juniors Are Honored.; Decrease of 14 from Last Year The upperclassmen's Dean's List for last year was given out by the office yesterday, and included the names of 96 Seniors and 53 Juniors. The total of upperclassmen on the 1932-1933 Dean's List was 163, while the Jist just issued shows only 149. The Freshmen and Sophomore lists will be printed in the next issue of the Concordiensis. The li:;t followti: SENIORS A. B. Course Mountebanks to Revive Play Given By Students in 1804: 'Bold Stroke for a Wife' WaH 1i'irst Long Play Presented Her·e; Tryouts Monday V{ omen to Tal\e Part Ibsen and Shakespeare Also On Players' Schedule Thtee play:;, each the wu1 k of a Jiifezent century, were chosen at ., ·!ueetin15 of the Executive Com- mittee of the Muuntebankc Tu€::.day l!vening !01 ptesentation duting the coming season. For November· 23 and 24 Mrs. Centlivt·e's \A. Bold ·Stzoke lot a Wife\ has been selec- t~d. \An Enemy of the People\ by Henrik Ibsen is listed for March 22-22, and William Shakespeare';! \'Twelfth Night\ will be the prom production, May 17 and 18. \A Bo!u Stwke for a Wife,\ the opening production of the current seaEon, is a comedy which was first produced in England in 1717. It was tevived in 1804 at Union Col- lege by the senior class and it is believed to be the first full length play presented' on this campus. Mr. Edward L. Carroll, Director of the Mountebanks, is tianscribing the play. T1youts will be held in Hanna Hall Monday from 2:00 to 4:00 and also ·beginning at 7:.30 in the eve- ning. Women Will Take Part The plans for the coming season outlined at the meeting also include the use of women in future pro- ductions whenever the cast calls for female characters and when suit- able players can be secured. This innovation was suggested by the Paul Adanti, Herbert A. Aspin, Tax Committee and will mark the Edward T. Barna, William A. Beers, re-ap.pearance of women players on Charles W. Bennett, Frederick Bill- the stage of the Mountebanks ings, Richard Blanchard, Everett theatre after a lapse of seven years. D. Bliss, Raymond C. Bonk, Char- The last production in which fe- tes Bridgman, James G. Burke, male characters were played by William J. Burn~. Victor Campzi- women was presented during the ella, James H. Chrysler, Joseph B. Hl27-28 season. Mrs. H. Laurence Cortesi, Thaddeus G. Cowell, Achille£ !ll.aFJ accepted the invitation Thomas J. Crowley, jr., Joseph De- of the Mountebanks to act as chap- Blase, Albert W. DeMatteo, Alfred e10ne for the feminine players. J. DiCaprio, Roland L. Faulkner, It was also announced that tW'O Daniel F'. Flinn, II, Donald F. make-up classes wi!J be held for Flora, Arnold J. Friedman, Ellis B. members of the cast to instruct Garrison, jr., Julius Golderman, tllem in the art of makeup as well Henry P. Gulnac, Herbert F. Haus- as to train them in making them- ser, William J. Heffernan, Daniel T. '>elves up. Hill, Howard M. Hills, Edward G Plan for Summez· Plays Horstman, Charles W. Huntley, The Mountebanks theater may be Samuel Jackson, John P. Judge, used by professional companies Samuel Keats, Philip B. Lang- during summer months if present worthy, John Lapinski, Harrison n~gotiations are successfully com- Lindabury, jr., Leslie R. Long, Sid- pleted by President Dixon Ryan ney D. Markman, Harold D. Meny, Fox and the Mountebanks. A well Anthony- J. Monda, William G. known producer ftom New York Neese, Prince E. Oleson, Ernest F. of classical and popular plays re- Painter, Everett S. Painter, Milton cently visited the campus to ex- Pozef~:~ky, William M. Prest, Boris amine the college theater and the Radoyevich, John P. Roberts, Er- possibilities for presentation of win K. Rockwell, EIII!ore C. Schu- open air plays. man, Milton Schwebel, Larman S. Several improvements have a.l· Sherwood, Samuel Simon, Julius J. zeady been made in the theater and Sitney, Robert H. Smith, Frank A. .,everal otl'J,ef'l. are p~ing plaimed. Squires, jt·., Paul G. Stackpole, Ed-' During the summer FERA workers ward L. Taylor, jr., George Tellal- painted the dressing room and in- ian, Adolf G. W. Timm, Louis Reed stalled miliOIS. A dress.Jng room Tripp, Ellis W. Trombley, Gilbert for women playerti i~ now under W. Tuck, Henry W. Tulloch, Fred- cunstz uctlon. erick Turnbull, Alexander M. Tur- The potiitions of Mastu of Ward- ner, Joseph <l. Vacca, jr., John R. mbes and Scene Designer are open Ward, Paul Was::Jmansdorf, Wil- and applicants are asked to report liam T. Winne, Ivor· P. Wold, to Mr. Edward L. Carroll or to George J. IZippin. Geotge Stloebel at the Delta Chi (Continued on Page 2) House. guished colleagues in the Univer- and spring, sity and this student body, and to Long Be~o ... n the -uo~ses TITere Stolen The Gymnasium has undergone participate in .the inauguration of II I (;;. J..fJ I ' ff t coneidez able nvamping. The exter- the eighty-third year of this fam- ior woodwork had been painted and *'Queen of the Broom\ Great Help To Financially Embarrased Students ous school of Jaw. No man now By FENTON GAGE the front doors look like new. The lives, save possibly one (referring mof of the Foote Pool has been r·e- to General Amasa. J. Parker), who Separated into two distinct fac- J. Doyle, '37, who immediately took plasteted and the old ffi{)SS cover·ed can with clear memory recall the tions, with an impenetrable bar- an independent stand from the front steps have been replaced by beoinnings of this enterprise, when rier between, t?e Student Cou~cil other members. Pleased at this new light colored concrete ones. By VEDDElt M. GILBER'l' o• faced a paralyzmg deadloclt durmg \· thr.ee nien, Harris, Parker and its meeting Wednesday night. dem<lnstration of independence, In ·ter1ovating Silliman hall the Union undergraduates wHe pro- queen of the broom\ as Marie, says Dea.n, all graduates of' Union Col- It all started when Mr. w. Wald- President Semerad appointed Doyle ugly old fixtures have been r e- tected by a regal janitoress during that she was both a philosopher lege, merged their courage, their ron, '35, arose, desperately clutching a committee of one to carry out the moved and braEs plates put up in a period of twenty-four yeat·s. and a theologian, and that one learning, their energy, and their a doorknob, and reported in a stir- inv!'lstigation with a different per- their place. 'The inteiior had been (1862-86) Like many monarchs, needed but to start her on any sub- faith to found this institution, They ring oration that all means of exit spective on the question. He ap- freshly painted malting the rooms she was the possessor of a string of ject to talk as if she were wound were men of strong personality and were cut off. He emphasized the plied for a short leave-of-absence brighter. Thermostats and motor- titles. They wer~: Elizabeth, Marie, up, The account continues by brilliant advocates, but it is impor- probable future of the Council if it which was speedily granted. Re- ized valves have been installed on 'Queen of The Broom,' and Union stating that she was the freshman's tant for us to remember that they were .not missed within a few. turning with somebody's trun·k as the steam system so that a more 'Scrub.' protecting genius, and woe to the were sound and diligent scholars weeks. the first step in the solution, he even tempexatUte may be main- In the files of the Graduate upperclassmen who abused him in with broad views of public Pe>licy. President R. Semerad, '35, irnme- succeeded in forcing open the tained. Council, rest several photographs her presence. If by chance any- 'fhe addresses of Judge Harris diately grasping the awful signifi- transom and pi.esented his repott. Both inhabited sections of South inscribed: \Elizabeth.\ These like- thing happened to a Frosh without .,. , mark him as a creative force to- cance of the situation, sprang into He suggested that the gentlemen College have come in for theh nesses .pol'tray a pleasant, coarse, the possibility of her intervention, ward a better adjustment of soci- .aotion and a.ppointed Mr. R. Ever- rise to a higher level and find the share of improvement. Middlesex full face, made large by a well-set- Marie would have said, \Poor devil, ety. Judge Parker, it will he re- est, '37, chairman of a. committee necessary solution. This report was an<'\; South Section have been com- back hair line of unkempt dark I am sorry for him.'' membered, was called upon to lee- of ways and means (to get out). A accepted unanimously and the pletely I·epainted. It is hoped that ·tresses. It is dubious, however, If the boys ture on law reform in London. The .recess of five minutes followed. organization pzoceeded t<> flle out· a little considetation from the occu- Elizabeth, to he sure, was a good ever felt sorry for her, since it was sw:E!ep ~nd scope of the mind ot The meeting reconvened and (the transom, of coursel·Fby (lr.der pants should make repainting un- natured, pleasant being. She was 'a. habit o~ the boys to leave the Amos .J;)eal,l are impressively re- Everest repo.rted that theze wete of senio.rity .. It was at this. point· necessaty for s{)!ne time. always l'eady to perform a favor. coal scutt!Gs conveniently at the vealed in his seven-volume 'History three windows, all far above tena that the serious split occurred. In The diity white face of the If a bqy needed a few dollars to 'head of the stairs, or to stack a of Civilization,.\ firma, and an absence of anything a further consultation of the seniot . Chapel clock had taken on new keep him going until his ship came 'room with hay, and, moreover, it \To. qualify- young men to meet suggesting fire escapes. This veport :members,. Mr. R. MacDowell, '35, · colors. The dial ·had been painted in, he could be sure that \Scrub\ was a sin to receive Potter's prize the minimum requirements of state was unanimously, if reluctently, ap- stj.ggested that the key be inserted garnet with the hands and numbers would lend him some from her 'for a neat room. It would seem examinations and to eat•n a Jiving proved and accepted. :in order to ·again combine the two c(Jpper. During the day as the ·meager earnings. that the good \queen of the broom\ at the bar must nave been a small At this point a kno<;k (from the factions. This idea was adopted 'light ehanges the clock reflects dif- The March 1880 issuE! of The had plenty of work to do and to do part of their purpose and ideal.\ outside!') announced the arrival of and harm~my restored. fetent shade.s. Concordiensis, referring to \the with a. smile.

Two ~irnsis \A Ca«sa Parsa Parole A:uai\ Fot:NllEll 1877 ME.t-1BER ~sodated @'o\l~giatt 1Jl'~S1\ .. ,qg34 ~u;;t;':IDU)rst 19 3s ... ~ YJlSCOtiSIH :-4ul,- ,llHl E:.'1 lu~i\1.• ~attollal .\tl\ t•rlt~iHg I-tvl'l'':t·B· talt\\1:' .Sattut1Hl .\dvt.·t·tb .. iug ~t.·rvit t', IIH', 1,1 \\ ~=--t .t:!lltl ~l., ~- Y. l'., -!UU :'\:o. :\lJt·,lug~H .-\Vt', •t hkagu. llhllt.Ji:-. --------- ---~ - 'T~i;J--;ewsp;per of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matte1· Subsc1·iption price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall. Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Addre~s all business communications to William H. Fitzgerald. Delta Upsilon House, Union Col- lege Schenectady, N. Y. All other commun1ca· tion~ to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi Psi Lodge, Union College, Schenectady. SENIOR BOARD Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Edltor-in-Chie! William H. Fitzgerald ........ Busine•s Manager Joseph A. Woolman .............. News Editor Milton A. Berg-er ................ Sports Editor Tho1·nton W. Whipple .... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. Anderson R. North V. Trumbull V. Gilbert A. Stevenson Issue Editor .• · .. ~-~- ~ ... - .. V. Trumbull Assistant Editor ......... S. H. Cohen Reporters Contributing to This Issue M. Bedell R. Cohen W. Horstman R. Doolittle R. Snyder F Ga~e THE CONCORDIENSlS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 193-1 With the above facts in mind, you under- cla~smen must feel yom· responsibility to your colleg·e. <~et out a..nd do something! MUSI'C [[ 6 =T==yro==li=an=C=ir=cu=.=.s ~] ~ 1 veiy, concet·ning the .football situ- ·l.b=============ll Tuesday, Septe-moer Jl ation. Lunch at the '~'u<Jll Shop, , Dr. Elmer A. Tidmar~h will o~en by l'HlLll' DU:::;CHI~RER Did rise eal'ly and amble to the whel•e 1 did dine WJth certam, his organ recital sunday by playmg administration !Jui!ding whel•e 1 youttttul instructors who erudtt~ly . of three nun1bet·s each The decision of the Student Council to re- did survey the new {!rup of year- neJd forth upon a con versa bon, a group lings. They ~eemed ill at ease and about gangstels and crime, anu; wl'itten by the famed German com- THAT'S RIGHT instate the annual freshman-sophomore writhed so, I thought the hay. had whO ditt wax exceed!ngly. wrathy at poser, Bach. The first group Will d not been thoroughly shaken fl·om the laxity of the JUdiCial system.• be \Slnfonia\ r 1 om the cantata scraps next year was a wise one. The tren their undershirts. Upperclassmen vvasted the afternoon, where I do. Th God\ Bach b dhl flanlt the long line, striving to not know. Sa!Hed torth with my \\Ve Thanlt ee, .. of the student body in past years has · een appear nonchalant and sop~li>Jti- l!'. c. tor an evening or briuge.:wrote thiH canta.ta primarily to be . . [ · t . . ted Could not conceal a .gnn as b d L · · The too far toward the conservative. t IS no OUl ~a th~ught of how the fre,;hmen c.arly to e · used at an election in · e1ps1g . idea that Union should seek o-lamorous, spec- would soon assume the paterna~ :sattu·day, September 15 success of this joyful number was \\ . . role and wisely usher newcome1;; A great rain came_ up'?n. us, so; so great that it was sung as a tacular publicity in order to make Ilseli through the gates of paradi~e. curled up for a day of solltall'e_ and thanksgiving. The second selection . . . l 1 • •• , Wednesday, September 12 reading which did bore ooe m1gh.t- will be \Allegro\ from the first ln1own 111 educatiOnal Cll'C es. Yet, t lele l::i <l Awakened by the sun in my eyes, 1 1y. D1d try my wits at clleo;s Wl~h Sonata. Bach, in writing this son- happv medium which can onl.:v be found by so patrolled t1.1e c~mpu_s feeling ad- K. Kel~ey. Braved the downpour m; . 1 • venturous. D1d drmk 1n the mmn- the evenmg to visit Proctor's, ana ala, chiefly for educat10na pur- the well-known trial and error method. ing air and bless the world. So met was highly entertained by \Bulldog poses, instilled in it ~uch. of the those two tennis· enthu:;iasts, Clem Drmnmond.\ Admired the sauve beauty that is found 1n hiS other Finch and .John Hallenbeck. and noncha:lance of Ronald Uoleman, works. The fil:st group will be co~l­ suddenly cnwed action. Cavorted and sighed as I quaffed a T. C. at eluded with \Toccata and Fugue m with them through a doubles· Gold's. D Minor\. This is one of Bach':.J match, and did gain immense satis- most dram:xtic compositions. Gath- faction when Bill Brandow and I Sunday, September 16 ering power from a very roll~ng elted out a victory. Feeling so ben- Up at noon to find th.e weath~l subject, it ascends to a very maJeS- evolent after dinner ,that I must nasty and uncertain. A.t three ll tic and powerful ending. needs visit Proctor's. Emerged did begin to pour, so I betook my- Russian scenes Portrayed still smiling, and w mel congenial self to view JY.Ly·rna Loy in \Starn- T'd has become traditional at Union. In his ad- cla~smateti who did coax me to sip ooul Quest,\ and did admire her Continuing his program, Dr. 1 - a bealter of beer. Home very mightily. Enjoyed, too, the old- marsh will play three compositions 1 t tasllioned histrionics wh.ich W. C. of Alexander Borodine's. The first Whether or not the scraps as they have been in theh past a1·e the ones which should be continued or not i::; u mutter of arbitration. But the simple painting of the Idol in the color of the class which dominates the other dress at the opening exercises on I\londay Dr. Fox discussed the development of tradi- tion. Those traditions \ovhich have been built up about Union College are not all shop- worn. Interesting angles of a story make for g-ood publicity. Spectators may not enjoy v.;atching a hungry mob of freshmen maul a handful of :sophomore;;, but they enjoy \Vatching some form of bitter rivalry be- tween the two classes at which they are con- testing upon equal terms. The Idol was originally a stone monument uut the incalculable number of coats of paint wea1y and very a e. Wl'll be \In the Steppes of Central I 13 J!'ields displayed in \The Old-fash· Th.ur3day, 8eptrm 1er A~I'a\. sounds of peaceful Russian wned Way.\ ~ Did rise at eleven, feeling so songs can be heard over the sandy mmibund that even orange juice Monday, September 17 slopes of the desert. In the dis- did have no effect. So strolled Slipped into chapel in time to tance the stamping of horses and a around the campus unaffected by hear the end of prexy's tallt, but camel caravan can be recognized. the cheerful emerald lawns. Per- found much comfor·t in the words The caravan slowly approaches, ceived the august R. Herrick driv- of the hono1·able visitor, Sir Rich- passes, and then fades away. Noc- ing a new tin vehicle. The ever- ard Livingstone. Read in the news turne\ from the second string quar- present scared look was manife,;t, :;beets that the men of Ireland are tet will follow, and the third num- but the sheepskin was still laid beating their swords into plow- ber of this group will be \Au Cou- away in mothballs. Did 1 notice a shears. Shivered until after five in vent\ Although no instrumental college sticlter on the front wind- the uers on Alexander field, hoping music was used in the Greei{ ortho- shield? So to lunch, and then for to see the footbal!ers perform in a dox church, Borodine has most ef- a stolen nap. Late uftemoon did sc 1 immage. Mightily disappointed. feclively portrayed a religious at- bring a fierce desire to watch those mosphere. f th 'd' h' h I d1'd Tuesday, September 18 heroes o e gn 1ron, w 1c · In the third group, the organist F. Feldman ===================-=- that that sacr.ed image has received has It seemed to me that everybody Up at eight, and to classes where will play three of Handel's works, was mightily busy on Alexander I did divide my attention eamestly opening with \Largo\, an aria from field, what with the strange new between Greek poet1·y and Egyp- the opera \Xerxes\. This selection device where home-plate usually twn art. Read a portion of Stephen clearly exhibits the dignified style rests. and with calisthenics. ln the Leacock':; worlt on C. Dickens in of Handel's compositions. This will evening I did feel so joyous that an endeavor to find out whether be followed by \Londonderry Air\ nothing would c.lo but I sally forth the volume deserved the hue and a traditionally old melody and a to sip once more from the foaming cry which the critlcs raised. Found beautiful folltsong. Last of the beaker. it plea:;ing, albeit slightly mediocre. group will be \Flight of the Bum- Friday, September 21, 1934 DO SOMETHING given it a heavy cover. Every coat of paint added to the tradition which was the rivalry between the two lower classes. :l!'riday, September H Spent the evening delving into a ble Bee\ from \Tale of Tsar Sui- Arose at nine, and appeared be- study of anarchism, which subject tan\ by Rimsky-Korsakoff. It is fore the bursar·~ window to regis- commences the comse in politicaJ based on a Russian tale about a ter, and there met Ralph Semerad, philosophy. To bed at midnight. princess who is changed by en- who discoursed learnedly if eva- JEREMY. chantment into a swan. As she With the opening of the colleg-e year comes the annual organization of a nun1be1· of the underg-raduate activities on the campus. Some have already got under way, while othe1·s are issuing calls for candidates and prepat'ing to get sta1·ted for the coming- year. Every extra-curricular activity, whether it !Je debating, dran}atics, joumalism, music or whatnot offers any num!Jer of opportun- ities to the :students of this college to develop some particular ability which may very often be of great benefit during latel' life. At the present time most of these calls are being made for fre:shmen o1· sophomores; it is these students to whom this editorial is directed. Many of you underclassmen admh·e the members of the junior and senior classes who hold prominent campus positions. Some fra- ternities use their prominent men to more advantage than do others during rushing week. ln two years you will be members of the upper classes and will l.Je holding the reins. Naturally the several undergraduate positions will be filled, !Jut why not make the competition more keen, and the fruit more sweet. Another advantage of retaining the sc1·aps b that the freshmen are thus taught to co- operate as a class g-roup at the beginning- of their college career. If only some agency of the student body could devise a means of continuing- this class spirit throughout the four years during which each class studies on theh campus, Union would be materially benefitted. EASY ON THE EYES · Deadlock\ is a heated crusade against the British divm·ce laws, 000 Greetings to our new clients of: full of ingenu~ty ~ 11 ~ a~usement the Class of 1938. to whom we here- I backed by fur1?us md1gnat10n. ~ew by reveal two of our inmost tl'ade Yor~er. fans Will ~a~t to. peek mto secret:;: our Sign of the Three Cha~les ,S~ac~:tt s Entirely. Sur- Goose-Eggs means \No hits, no rounded, a due ex~ose of ilf~ on runs, no errors lmaybeJ\; and our ~lexander Woollc_ott s tsland 1n a motto every Friday is \If it's civil- vermont lake, w1th Dorothy Par- ized we're interested.\ l1e.r pres~nt, .and everyone much too ' tlnnly dtsgmsed. * * * lgnotus. ~--oo~-- 000 Last spring he1·eabouts went out in squalls and young blizzards of criticism, most of it healthy and invigorating. Comes the fall, a new THE PLAY'S THE THING administration, and festoons of 0 · th M t b k h t 1 rainbows on every hand. How 149 Upperclassmen Attain Last Year's Dean's List nee agam e 1 oun e an s ave a cen a about trading in some of those step on the road of progress. The announce- hammers for a not-too-loud horn? \Continued from :Page 1l ment of their Executive Committee that • * * B. 8. In E. E. CJO() Let's hope employing freshmen Earl R. Arnds, Jacob A. Brey- women players will be used in the future p1·o- as FERA worker» will not start an maier. Angus M. Brown, Elvin E. ductions has more behind it than just the alphabetical scrap betwixt FERA Clapper, Roberts T. Drew, Howard and NRA. You'll recall that the E. Ellithorn, Frank G. Gersincich, mere substitution of women for men in the latter forbids child labor. James S. Gillespie, Joseph Horvath, portrayal of female characters. It marks the • * • jr., Dorsey F. Hughes, William L. 000 The campus in midsummer Hunter, Donald F. Vrooman. beginning of greater service by the l\Iounte- presents spectacles little dreamed B. S. in C. E. banks, not only to Union Colleg-e and its stu- of by those who live in these parts John W. Gurry, Robert E. Ken- only during the nine frozen months nedy, T. R. Mcllwaine, Belmont M. dents, but also to the community at large. of the year. Such a:;: haying in Williams. Few r.ealize the unique service which the full swing in the college pasture; B. s. in Cltemistry the annual 24-hour closing and Robert W. Gurry, George A. ~Iountebanks are performing- for the college locking of the campus gates in Moore, Samuel Sllberk.raus. d h •t I 1 t' tl · 1 order to prevent the roadways B. S. in Physics an t e commUni Y· n se ec mg 1e1r Pays, from becoming legal thorough- Harrison S. Sayre, John Carl Sed- the Mountebanks have always soug-ht cui- fares; the leisurely process of cov- don. tul ·al and ar'\istic 1 ·nterest rather than prob- ering the factory-grime deposited Total Seniors-96. L on our paintable buildings \Lewis JUNIORS floats in the water, a large bumble bee flies above here. She then sends him on an errand as the mu- sic fades. End With Dupre Pieces The program will be completeo with a group of three numbers by Marcel Dupre. From the compos! tion, \Stations of the Cross\ Dr. Tidmarsh will play \Jesus Com forts the Women of Jerusalem\ the eighth station, and \Jesus is Nailed on the Cross\ the eleventh station These two selections portray scenes of the crucifixion. Tile rhythmic piece, \Finale\, written in modern style, will be played as a conclusion to the recital. ---0--- Middlesex Notes Outward form notwithstanding this Friday edition of Middlesex Notes bears no relation to its Tues day namesalce. The title remains unchanged in thanks to Paul Wass ~ansdorf. its originator. Besides 1t has that titular air of distinction so sought after and so seldom at tained by columnists. Being written by two ~ifferent persons, these col umns Will have dissimilar policies which will be better manifest by perusal than by any formal state ment. . . .. able box-office value. They have helped to Mumford calls it \atmospheric sew- age\) with many gallons of white A. B. Course fill the need for a type of entertainment paint; and the dizzying changes in Paul H. Beik, Milton A. Berger, Robert J. C. Breart<>n, Ernest N. which can never be commercially successful color of the cloclt-faces in the B N Through long exposure to chape speakers students !mow that they may expect \humor\' in an attempt to win their sympathies. Sir Rich ard L.ivi~gstone was most subtle '\YhY 1s It that an implied insult tickles the American sense of hu mor? That was a pithy bit from !;>r. Fox on the benefit of tradition chapel tower, especially the week rown, orman 0. Chadbourne, in a small city. that they were a violent orange. Franlt P. Cliarnp, Reynold M. Crane, Rudolph F. D<eutl, Hugh R. The necessity for using men to imperson- • • • Elwyn, James E. Finke, Austin M t f · · h t t ll 1 . •t d th 000 It was a tough summer for Fox, Ore_l Friedman, Charles R: a e emmme c arac ers na ura Y 1m1 e e Nazi sympathizers, if any•. That F ost M 1 1 r , Jr., a co m L. Griffing range from which the Mountebanks could gruesome \purge\ of June 30 was R~nltine G. Hinman, Marcus Hor~ well described by one writer who w1tz, Se;rmour A. Horwitz, Homer We are not the first,-that is our ~ortune; we are not the last -that IS our responsibility.\ ' * * .. choose their plays. Now that they are no said that Hitler proposed to build T. Jenmngs, Harold D. Koffsky longer hampered by this restriction, they Sparta upon the ruins of Sodom. William S. McCord, Donald B: T t b 1 t d istant Not civilized, not interested. Moulton !deceased), Andrew Pog- an easy propos! 1011 o e e ec e ass ' have a wider choice of plays and a greater • • • genpohl, John B. Roraback Harold manager of fall winter or spring sports when opportunity to perfect their art. ooo The movie high-points for the C. Schneiderwind, Robert J It is always an easy matter to gain an im- portant position on the editorial board of The Conco1·diensis, for instance when there are just enough candidates to fill the positions when time fo1· election comes around. It is Rumor-Walter Hampden will be at the Erie with an unmentioned play, on October 11. The Drama class was given Cyrano De Ber ~erac as first _assignment. Curious summer were \The Thin Man,\ a Schultz,. Ralph D. Semerad, Abra~ there are just enough candidates as there are In substituting women for men in female magnificent rendering of the Ham- ham Sm1th, LaurenE:. Smith Maus assistant manag·erships. Yet victory is much roles, the Mountebanks are not expressing ~e~; b~f~~F:;~on~ci ~ape~~~ !~ iY~te~-te;r~iyj~~w~~ru~~w~rdSto~, m ore ratifying when there are several de- dissati.sf.action. Th_ ey are rat?er adding to anything he appeared in). They Thomas, William A. Waldron Znd. ol w one associates an actor and a Pay. mJh~ Phrase of the day, caught in · ghsh class, leaves me with the Picture of cultu · civilization ., re m an amoeboid tion\ t'h Intellectual indiges was e gem. g . the reahsm of their pr.esentat10ns. took all the cussing out of \Treas- Joseph A. Woolman. ' ' feated candidates. The Mountebanks have become mol~e and ~-e Island,\ and left the sentiment B. s. in c_ E. f . . C Joseph V. Agius, jr., Sidney A * * * The improvement o the vanous agencies more popular with the years. Extra per- • • * ole, John J. Kuttler.-, Leahmo~ ()CJO The headquarters of the sue- Nestle, Stanley Rockefeller Ell This writing a c 1 . of the college always comes up for discussion formances were required last year and, from cessful Republican candidate for wood B. Wengenroth. ' - occupation Id 0 ~mn Is a trying . h 0 f th b t 11 . d' t' 'll b bl b district attorney were ornamented B S • carraecl•non-~x:istee::. elTthheer sbeeeathuetifoutl• at some time or ot er. ne o .e es ways a m 1ca wns, Wl pro aJ Y e necessary during the primary campaign (and · · m E. E. , ' b t'll) 'th 1 Benjamin A. Brown, V1'ncent A you remembered 11 d to l ·mprove these UI1del'2'l'aduate actJ.vi'tt'es t's this season. . may e s 1 WI a arge painted Doyle Mil w not so funn a ay is ~ sign announcing that he wished to ' 0 • Eames, Eugene o· ed paragrapyhson paper.. The finish W t 1 t M C ll t th b Emerson, Kenneth N · ap t furnish more competition for the lucrative .e congra u a e r. arro , a e eg-m- be elected \Dlstrlc\ Attorney. we Chester M Rh.o d . . Mathes, machine seem st ~eanng above the 0 nino· of his seventh year as director of the thought that at least the old guard White, J'r. · a es, Jr., John E. ed I am · f 0 gy and unpollsh 'f h' h 1 1' 't d b f tu \' could spell? . m ormed howev b posl lOllS w lC on y a IIDI e. num. e.r o s - Mountebanks, for the excellent work he has' . * * * B. s. in Chemistry v~terans in the craft that er, I'lyl d h ld I d t t 00 A h Daniel R. Conlon jr R b . either become inured soon ents can o . ncrease compe 1 1011 com- done in the past. and we eagerly anticipate o m?ng t e crop of boolts, you Slobod, Joseph Sott:rslO:k o ert L. stuff or that I w'II to my own . . • • might hke \Seven Gothic Tales\ by B 8 ' · myster· 1 develop that pels each candidate to work harder, th,us nn- the three plays scheduled for presentation th~ Danish Baroness Bli:xen, who J h · · in Ph.ysics h Ious catalyst style Th • · f h t t th · wr1tes under the name of Isaak budo ~ ~- Clark, Leonard Eisen- per aps, it Won't 'tak • en, provmg' the quahty o t e ou pu . lS season. Dlnesen. A. P. Herbert's \Holy T~tatrJKn~~s~~~~erhayes. jr. ~~W t~~k.produce this ~eer;:ge h~~ J, B. D. I i ( ' l l :{ l }, c ,, I l ·I ' '~ ~ : \ Varsit ' Please Expect::; With S. Yea·r's : \This teal Bill Ketz a] the famou: shifted into cross•countr their falter to match t:t \just anoth got six vetl uefeated te good ::1opho should havE Unioii Just wha1 season? :::: been at UJ have yet to Out of fif1 has won tv Y. U. and t schools wh< are ranked country. straight an is worrying Giido Mir co-captains, Bastedo, J' North are 1 outfit whic: ning its m• North has America a1 for the teal perhaps sor Fi Leon SaiE sopohmore:o Knox, Cha car, and : plete the s, Barring should mal though !itt. leyan and ents. Rec' rate, Nestl tedo all fi within thir cellent tim the season. Fresh: Needs To ConcE Both I tive; I With onl left of thE ported for Coach Nel. skeptical keeping cl cord of thE past three the new 1 ience and mentals v candidates inconvenie· and paren ducing the minimum. Scrh The firs nesday, w Coach Nib It did sho,; was not r and WOUI< ishing, bo lectively, l: ready to Gloversvill Because o is Coach centrate o: then on t manner hE of the we~ him. \It is tc make an~ mentor S' view, \bu1 fellows ou 'rhere is ~ and a lot learn. M seem to trouble b~ the same ficultles a come\. I He men ing fairly field. Fre• and Sam: ionally. g backs wb Howie Br· Chapin, Wiley are of the lin< ing. Non and every portunity A light terday; tl tle better.- sle. LAC All stuc fall lacro~ Fred Wy: Monday~ wen as sc men are the squac direction tice will noon.

l I .. 'l I I :{ ; }, r. j I l ·I ' '~ THE GONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1934_ Varsity Ha.rriers. Garnet Grumblings •j· Athletic Department Notices I Please Coach Ketz .!!==;;;;;;;;;;;;ny;;;;;A-· u-s-..'l'l-N-Jo'_o_x==;;;.! Atlueuc lnjw•tes ... __ -\ t ''A \ S . This much I've found out about The Department of Physical Edu- on Monday, September 24 at 51· Ex pee s verage . eason. :sports columning already; that the cation. and .Athletics will not be re- ,p. m. Each contestant must file hi:; , W 'th S.' y <. f L t' k' sponsible for .injuries sustained by .entry with the Department of l . IX ·. e~erans 0 · :·as ·, hardest thing about it is thin mg· d · t h' 1 persons engage m, or wac mg Physical Education and .Athletics. S d R t . up a name for the column. Jl, ·ost F' t Year's qua epor lng 'of the big ones in the busines::; ~:~se athletic events of any nature. Irs 'No post entrie:; will be accepted. aid treatment will be administered Conte~tant::s wHI have to ~upply :·something like \The Sportlight\ or 11 t t t f \This team won't be bad\. Coach; \On the Gridiron\ or \The Spoi t free of charge lo a con es an 8 0 their own racket\ and balls for all Bill Ketz applied another match .to ·of Kings\ or 80 mething on that 01·- the College by the physicianls anf~ · matche:;. Thi::; event wiH be con- k . d the trainer, dw ing their regu ar o -, duc'ed on an ind!'vl· dual ruther than ·, the famous flsh-hoo p1pe an det·, all of which are of a fairly · \ T t , fice hours, at the gymnasiUm a t\am ba•is. I shifted into r~verse. wo ve e:ran· seiious natut•e. It is appa1·ent to ONLY. \ \ cross-countrymen were exhorting; ·most of us ordinary mortals, how- Use of Gym · their faltering sophomore p!•otege; ever, that sports writers are not to Inter•Group Athletics 1 to match them stride for stride for: be taken ::seriously (didn't Grant- Athletic managers of all fl·ater- 'The gymnasium floor having' \just another fifty yards. \We've land Rice pick Carnera; Daley, the nity and g·t•oup teams wiU be re- .been Jef.ini~hed, it is neces~;;ary that got six veterans of last year's un-' Yankees; and nine hundred one- quired to file a written entry for a. strict obset·vance of the rules per- defeated team and a few pretty thousandths of the sports writers their teams for all sports fostered {aining to its use be adhered to. good ::Jophomot•es and I figure we ·in the country, the Stanford team by the Department if they wish to The wearing of clean rubber ::soled should have an average season\. · iu the Rose Bowl game?J. Hence have their teams compete. Adequate shoes is required of all. . . , . Re t R. I'd · I'm calling this one \Garnet Grumb- notice will be .given concerning Violators of thi:> rule will be per- I· each event at the proper time. Unwns c_en eoo lings\ and a:ll I can say is I hope manently excluded from the use of 1 Just what const1L1:1tes an average: you'll like it, which is the little the facilities. season? Since Coach Ketz has. viece, I believe .most blues singers Inter-fraternity Touch Football Fr()sh Gym Equipment been at Union, his hiU~and-dalers recite when they step up in front. Entries for this event will close have yet to lose to a small college., of the microphone. Monday, September 24 at 5 p. m. li'r·osh Gym Equipment will be is- Out of fifteen meets, the Garnet; i am n{)t going to make the The athletic managers of each fra- sued from the Gymnasium Stock- ha~;; won twelve, losing once to N.• mistake of trying to give any ternity or group team must file a room between the hours of 1 p. m. Y. U. and twice to Manhattan, two, fo1·ecast of the approaching written entry wi.th the Department and 5 1 '· m. upon presentation of schools whose cross-country squads; football season. It is far too of Physical Education and .Athie- Lhe Bursar's receipt. Lockets will are l 'anked among the best in . the· yotmg .for that, .a.nd as 1 ·have h also be assigned at this time, upon h ht tics and sign his name tot e entry. payment of One Dollar deposit country. Union as won ·eig just said, sport writers seem to Subsequent announcements will be which will be refunded in June. straight and the law of a~erages be gene,·aUy wrong at anticipat- made regarding the schedule. No is worrying Coach E:etz a b1t. ing. 'l'ne good old element of late entries will be accepted. Gi!do Mirate, and Bill Brockwehl,. chance plays too impo1·tant a Because of the limited facHities co-captains, Leahmon Nestle, Ed part in any game for a pre- available for this activity, it is Bastedo, Jerry Neuman, and Bob. diction '.to be very valid. The deemed advisable to conduct the North are the veterans of the 1933 enticem.mt however, is well competition on an elimination basis outfit which made a habit of win-· nigh iri·eshstible; so I can't rather than a round-robin. ning its meets by a perfe?t score.: help expressing my sentiments, North has been traveling m South which I trust will be taken America and will probably report \cum grano saltis\ about our for the team as soon as he returns, chances in the opener against perhaps sometime nex.t week. Wesleyan, a week .from tomor- Five Sophomores row. Leon Saiewitz, a sprinter, and five The Cardinals, I'm afraid, have sopohmores, Sam Hewitt, Russ a bit too much experience for our Knox, Charles Sweet, Hal Vande-. boys. They have the same team car, and Ralph McA!lester com- with only two or three exceptions plete the squad. that won the Little Three title last Barring injuries, the Garnet year by playing that powerful Am- should malte a good showing. al- herst team to a standstill. They've though little is known about Wes- got a back named Johnson who was leyan and Rochester, new oppon- given honorable mention on several ents. Recently in time trials Mi- Ali-Eastern teams last year, and rate, Nestle, Brockwehl, and Bas- who will have that same strong tedo all finished the full course line in front of him. within thirty minutes, which is ex- \Swede\ Oberiander, who cellent time, especially so early in coached tl1em successfully the the season. vast three seasons, has gone to -----{)--·- Freshman Eleven Needs Polishing Up To Concentrate On Blocking, Both Individual and Collec- tive; :Farr Good Punter With only about twenty-five men left of the original forty who re- ported for the Frosh football team, Coach NeLs Nitchman is somewhat skeptical about the chances of keeping clean the undefeated re- cord of the first year teams for the past three years. The majority of the new .men are without exper- ience and are learning the funda- mentals very slowly. Numerous candidates have been lost due to inconvenience in their schedules and parental difficulties, thus· re- ducing the available material to a minimum. Scrimmage Disappoints continue his study of medicine in Cleveland; but he has, if anything, a better successor. He is Jack Blott, All-Am.eriean cente1· at Michigan in 1923, and Maize and Blue, and backstop for the Cincinnatti Reds. Our own line coach, Cecil E. Can- trill, Jr., owes some of his abil- ity and knowledge of the game to him, having worked Wider his direction a.t Ann Arbor. We can no doubt look for a Leam well versed in the famous Ripke \punt pass and prayer\ system when the boys from Middletown take the field a week f1 om tomor- • Managerial Candidates Members of the sophomo1·e class who wish to compete for the man- agerial positions of the Fall sports teams are requested to report to Professor Wittner's office in the gymnasium at once. Under the system, in force this season, more than one candidate with the same club ot· fraternity af- filiation can compete simul- taneously. Intramural Fall Tennis Entries for this event will clo~e row. In other words, they'll get\ off g-ood punts, being mighty care- fnl that we don't block them, they'!.! have a stubborn defense, and they'll play a heady game, passing when- e,·er the o.pportunity offers. Coach Hatfield seems to be leaning to- ward this style of gatne a!.,;u; so tl•e game may resolve itself into a battle between the respective sl.ren.gths of the Kipke style, with Vvesleyan having the edge. If the game is anything like the one played last year be- tween. the two colleges, the spectators are going to be in for Jllenty of excitement. With the score tied at 7-all and .only a minute to ~·o, Dain completed d. t}aS!l to Semei·ad who went Football 'l'ickets Students wiU be required to pro- cure tickets for their seats in the .Cheering Section for each varsity .game. These may be obtained by presentation of the athletic tick- ets at the gymnasium office. Ad- mittance to the Cheering Section will be denied to all non-holders by the ushers. Athletic Tlcl,ets The issuance of the Athletic ticlt· ets will be made from the stock room in the basement in the Gym- nasium between 1 p.m. and 5 p. m. upon presentation of receipt from the Bursar showing that the appli- cant has paid his athletic tax or that its payment has been arranged for. ---------- over for the S<\ore only to have lL penalty called u.ntl the hall brought back. A i'ew minutes later, DiLallo caught a pass from Dain, just malting the ,goal line when he was tackJp·d, but tllis sco1·e too was not cmmted because of an elleged off-side, and the whistle b!ew with the count still deadlocked at 7-ail. C.HARLES' Formel'ly ED'S 1'he Official Union College Barber for the past 24 years. Ask any upper classmen, they !mow. 11 operators. Schenectady's gt·eatest barber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY The first scrimmage, held Wed- nesday, was a disappointment to Coach Nitchman for many rea,;ons. It did show, however, that the team was not ready to work as a unit and would need considerable .pol- ishing, both individually and col- lectively, before the team would be ready to take the field against Gloversville High on October 13. Because of this team weakness it is Coach Nitchman's idea to coil· centrate on individual blocking and then on the team itself, Jp. this manner he hopes to ovel'come many of the weaknesses now confronting him. 1Vhite .Burley -the best tobacco (or sn;zokin£ tnaptpe \It is too early in the season to make any predictions\ the frosh mentor stated during the inter- view, \but I will say that all the fellows out there are hard worlters. 'rhere is a lot of work to he done and a lot the fellows will have to learn. As individuals the fellows seem to get along without much trouble but as soon as we attempt the same things in scrimmage dif- ficulties arise which must be over- come~~. Farr Fine Punter TENNIS COURT RULES 1. Students and Faculty only · shall be permitted the use of the courts. 2. The Depar·tment of Physical , Education and Athletics having incurred considerable expense in reconditioning the tennis courts, · it i::; deemed necessary to enfovce more stringently, the rules gov- erning their use. It is hoped that . all student,; will heartily co-oper- ate in the observance of the t·ules. Violators will be denied the privilege of using the courts. All players MUST wear TENNIS. SHOE~ with ::;oft pliable soles .. (Basketball and other types of· shoes at·e not acceptable). 3. Children of the Faculty mem- . bers shall be permitted the use of the courts if any are vacant ' but NEVER to the exclusion of , two above named groups. 4. Doubles should be played ' whenever possible so as to in· :;m·e use of the court~ tu the · maximum number of player:;. 5. If person~; are waiting to play, both singles and doubles matches a1:e to be permitted to finish theii· se1. before vacating. In the event that the set goes to deuce play shall stop at once. 6. Play on Sunday shall be re- ::;trictcd to the hours of 1 p. m. to 5:30 p. m., and all players must be dressed in a CLEAN WIDTE costume. 7. Workmen engaged in repair- ing or marking the courts are to be permitted to complete their task before play can start. 8. The tennis courts will close daily at 5:30 p. m. 9. Use of the indoor court on the gymnasium floor will be re- . served for the varsity squad when inclement weather prohib- its their practice outdoors. 10. The caretaker shall be sole judge as to the use of the courts after rainy weather. Thl'ee FI 1 0Sh Show Promise In C1·oss-Country Workouts Light workouts over a short course has featured in the frosh cross-country pre-season training. Coach Bill Ketz reports that there are several good prospects among his yearling harriers and expects a fairly g-ood season. Outstanding among these is CJ.iff Gammons, for- merly of Nott Terrace High, who will probably form the nucleus of the freshman outfit. Others on the squad are Dave Waters, of Mont Pleasant High, Harry Myers of Al- bany, Dale Springsted of Schenec- tady, Severyn Hasbrouck ,of Stone Ridge, Orville Merchant of Amster- dam, August Laurenski, Joe Capar· ella, Bill Godfrey, Bill Hawkes, Walt Gerber, Jack Bergstrom, Rog- er Fowler, Bob Shepard, Bob Denz- ~_::._Pre::;ton Reed, and Undgus. The Garnet Tailor 605 LIBERTY ST. We Call for and Deliver 'l'el. 4-0122 Call Ball ~ For better and quicker Service in Clothes Cleaning and Shoe Rebuild- ing-at no higher cost than else- where. ONE DAY SERVICE ANY DAY The College Favorite Eating Place Where Low Prices and High Quality Prevail COLLEGE SUP PLIES At Reasonable Prices W:eekly Rates for Table Board MURRYS AMID PLEASANT SURROUNDINGS Next to the High School Tffl!man's Docess -adds to the ftag':ance and makes- it act right in the pipe • He mentioned three men as do- ing fairly good work in the back- field. Fred Patrie, Ted Podbielski, and Sam Farr, the latter an except- ionally . good punter, are those backs who are showing promise. Howie Brown, a good, hard worker, Chapin, Little, Day, Todd, and Wiley are showing up as the best of the linesmen at the present writ- ing. None of the team will be cut and everyone will receive every op- portunity to prove his ability. A light scrimmage was held yes- terday; the boys showing up a lit- tle better than in the previous tus- Rough Cut _cut the right way to smoke cool and last longer Common -sense package _f<eep_s tobaccoftesh handy to cany-JOf sle, ---a--- LACROSSE PRACTICE All students interested in playing fall lacrosse are asked to meet with Fred Wyatt at the gymnasium on Monday ,a;t 1 o'clock. Freshmen, as well as sophomores and upperclass- men are eligible to practice with the squad, which will be under the direction of Mr. Wyatt. First prac- tice will be held on Monday after- noon, @ 1934, LIGGBTT & MYRRS TOBACCO CO,

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1934: 8()1 REGISTERED FOR YEAR Dr. Fox to Participate In Historical Celebration Larrabee Discusses Keeping Up Morale Says Man's Emotional Ad- vance Is Fa1· Behind His Present Day Intellectuality To date 801 dudents have email· ed in the college. The Baal d of Trmtees have placed as a limit BOO Never thtoughout the yeats of the depression has the emollment ever dropped below the desil ed number. The sesqui-centennial of the Gen- eral North Mansion, which was etected at Duanesburg, N. Y., in 1784 by William North, Adjutant- \ \ General under Washington, will 'be 1 celebrated tomorrow with a.ppro- 1 1 1 Thete wei e 250 fx eshsmen, 227 sophomore~. 161 juniors, and 163 senims that tegistered. Due to fail- ures and tl'aw;ters to other colleges and professional schools the num- ber of upperclassmen have de- ct·eased, nevet-the-less, the stand- ard~ have been ltept up lo tho~e made by the tt us tees. pl'iate ceremonies, in which Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, Union's President, 1 1 • - - -- <:) . and Duane Featlier:;tonhaugh, '36, 'I \ will take part. Dr. Fox will malte one of the ; \ addresses listed for the program, and Duane Featherstonhaugh is ' chairman of the committee for the ! ' ce>lebration. ' I Other spealters will be Mts. R. \Unless we can catch up emo- tionally with our intellectual prog- ress, unless we can achieve free- dom through diseipline in the field of values as we have precariou:oly achieved it in the field of scientific thought, our vast powers over mat- ter will be the means of our own self-destruction,\ declared Dr. Har- old A. Larrabee, professm· of phil- osophy, in Chapel Wednesday morning. Freshmen Advisors Named for Courses H. Gib-bs. State Regent of D. A. R., the Han. George W. Feathet:;ton- hau~h, a lawyer in Schenectady, und the Rev. William H. Baninger, U<!.puty of the State Grange. The program will al~o include the un- veiling of the marker by Mary Mc- quade, the tledication by Peter Nelson and a play, the wedding of \Wilham North by the WC. Y P!ayers. ' ------ - -------- --- - Commenting further on \keeping up morale in a time of confusion\ Dr. Larrabee said, \Sticks and stone;; do not get themselves into painful social maladjustment; only men have that exaltetl pri viiegl!. Dr. Larrabee explained how man has ever been led out of a period of confusion. \Men cannot act wholeheartedly without an inner wholeneo;.,; of hE>art -without being able to feel tleeply about what they think is so -tha.t ill the problem of morale in a single sentence. And wholeness of heart in our day i:; the' one thing that is most difficult for an educated man to achieve. Twenty-five members of the fac- ulty have been appointed ft esh- man advisors, and will aid the class of 1938 by answering any questions concerning the college and by ad- vising the students about their· per- :;onal problems. Thts year the fac- ulty appointees have been divided into four divisions to take care of the four divisional courses which have been introduced with the new lJnion plan. timer F. Sayre, a;;;sociat& professor of applied mechanics. . The students in the course of electrical engineering have a~ their advisers Dr. Frederick W. Grover, professor of electrical engineeting, Dr. Edwin W. I-hmlin, instructor in math.ematics, and Dr. Anthony J. Palmero, instructor in electrical engineering. \Can you, here at college, not only do some tall thinking for yourself, but also bring your feel- ing abreast of your thinlting, so that you will go out \US the fash· ionable phx·a:;e i~) an integrated personality, and not a hou;;e divid- ed against it::;elf? There ate few better places in the world than right here at college to undertake the task of developing your sense of values as well as your knowl- edge of facts. Student;; majoring in foreign lan- guages are under the counsel of Robert W. Ctoweil and Kurt Von For·stmeyer, asooc•ate ptofessor and instructor in German and French, respectively. Those taking English are advi:;etl by assistant professors of English, Dwight Van Avery and Bertrand M. Wainger. In division II the students of the social studies course are to be counseled by Fredenclt L. Bronne1·, assistant professor of history, Ells- worth Missal!, a new instructor in political science, Dr. Philip E. Mosely, instructor in hh;tory, and Dr. Philip Stanley, as~l~tant pro- fessor in philosophy. The spirit of good comradship which the atlvisers give to fresh- men under their counsel is a ma- terial aid in erasing many of the difficulties which arise during the first college year. The custom of students consulting with the fac- ulty is in keeping with the tra- ' dition of friendiine~s. which is , 1 characteristic of Union. THE ACME BARBER SHOP \The best sources of morale in a time of confusion, however, are staunch personalities, and these it is the business of the college to ,;upply-leaders who face the worst without flinching and yet hope for the best, men whose lives are most many-sided and harmonious. From their example, more than from any- one or anything else, the most timid and puzzled foilower may take courage.\ Students taking the course of mathematics and science will be assisted as follows: In biology by D~·. Erne;;t E. Dale, assistant pto- fe~sor, Dr. James W. Mavor, in charge of the field of biology, and Samuel J. Leonard. assistant pro- fesor; in mathematics, by Dr. Orin J. Farrell, assistant professor, Dr. David S. Morse, professor, and Ar- thur D. Snyder, associate profes- :oor; in physics by Dr. Peter Irving Wold, in charge of field of physics, and Dr. Everett W. Thatcher. as- sistant professor ; and in chemistry by Dr. Egbert K. Bacon, assistant professor, William Friedler, and Dr. Frederick C. Schmidt, instruc- tors. Welcomes the Freshmen to Union College ' i ----o---- Wold Pleads For Open .. Mindedn e s s \The opening of college mean~ the opening of new minds, the O!Jen- ing of intellectual curio:;ity and the readiness to exchange new ideas and points of view\ o;aid Dr. Peter I. Wold, head of the field of phy- sics, in a speech to the student body at Wednesday's a.ssembly. \College gates are swinging open and students are crowding in,\ con- tinue! Dr. Wold. \A man who at this time does not feel the inspim- tion of the summons to invest his life in .something worthwhile is a poor man indeed. Belief in Force Growing \We are living in a period of changes and proposed changes, a ptdiod where regimentation is much in the air. A few days ago, Sir Richard Livingstone expressed the opinion that 'before the grE>at war there mas more use of military force than since, but always with apologies to a s!'nse of shame. Now there seems to be a growing belief that our problems can only be solved .by force, by regimentation·. We see it in Europe and evE>n in our own cuuntty. The civil engineers will be ad- vi:;ed by Robert W. Abbett, pro- fessor of building construction, Russell A. Hall, associate profes- sor of civil engineering. and Mor- 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS COLLEGE GRILL TAP ROOM Soft Drinks and Sandwiches Cor. Easte•·n Ave., Jaekson Place Here's how! To all you upper classmen and greetings to the frosh! SCHENECTADY'S POPULAR RENDEZVOUS C 0 LD , s Restaurant - Tap Room - Delicatessen 631 STATE STREET I i I , I I 1 I I i \Militarism or regimentation is submitted to by liberal minded men iu times of supreme danger ·but they soon come to resent it. Militar- ism treats all men alike as anony- mous units. The liberal college.;, on the other hand, and among thesE> we include Union, holds that every individual is different. ;g::::::m::::::::m:m::::m::.::mmmm:::mm::mm:m:::m:::m::::::::m:::m::mm:m:m::m:mnmmm::mm;;: ill ill \A few days ago we opened col- lege. What did this mean to u~? Was it the opening of the mind? Do we come here with intellectual curiosity and readiness to exchange truths and untruths and to enter- tain them long enough to see if we wish to add them to our philosophy of life, or to send them packing ron their way? \Does the opening of college a few days ago mean the unlocking ·of old doors, the sweeping out of dusty rooms or the opening of the heart to friendship of the mind to near truths?\ asked Dr. Wold in conclusion. ---·~--- PLEDGE NOTICER Sigma Chi announces the pledg· ing of the following freshman: Dell Annette, Watertown; Robert Burns, Mt. Vernon; Willia:m E. Endicott, East Greenbush, N. Y.: Frederie!k F. Fagal, Stratford, Conn.; Feveryn Hasbrouck, Stoner.!dge, N. Y.; Rob- ert V. Kling, Lawyersville, N. Y.; Kenneth Reinhardt, Woodhaven, N. Y.; and James W. Scott Jr., Kingston. Freshmen- It is your duty to support college functions dent publications. and stu- You- 1 , m this, your college paper. lll News From The Front They're Rough and Ready for Fall,in Sty\e-Spun Under grads, and alumni too, they all \go for'' these suits in a big way. The sport models are new and smart, and the fabrics are just the thing for Fall. Rough, sturdy tweeds, wooly shetlands and tong wearing cheviots in a wide variety of sport styles. Suit 5 $25 New Fall Topcoats $25 The Arrow Gordon Shirt $2.00 Style leaders at Yale and Princeton. wear the Arrow ·Gordon oxford in white and co 1 or s, Nusbaum's have them in regular collar attached, but- ton down or tab collar. The 2Vs\ Brim Hat $3.85 Snap-brim, with a slight taper to the crown, This hat is first choice at lead- ing universities. Dark brown or Pilgri·m gray. The Brown Wing Tip Shoe $5 Thi~. ·shoe is perfect· ly suited for wear with the new rough fabrics, Wing tip, punched decorations. Easily cleaned, al- ways smart. ;··. i l .. . ) .i \j ! Chi Psi has pledged Clyde Mar- shall, '38, Roslyn, N. Y.; Wallace Foote, '36, of Port Henry, N. Y. has been pledged to Alpha Delta Phi; Russell Knox, '37, of Utica, to Delta Phi; and Paul Goldberg, '38, of Troy, to Kappa Nu; in addition to those announced Tuesday. t\\'\'\'\\\m'\'\''\\''\''\'\\'\\'\\\\\'\'\'\\'\\\\\~'\'\'\\\\\\'J. 4 4 z.~,~~g llor ~;~~~.:TREE T ~~~~~-------...c~. ~~~l .... ------..- ... 0 t l t I Kappa N Berg A Delta Alpha Folic I I I I t I t.., ............ _._. Vol. LVIII Kappa Avera To Wi1 Fra teruity Of Twe1 8.5 or I Delta l All Fmter Neutral: The Berg scholastic c1 ed to the I< daily asseml pa Nu witl won the aw of 9.130. Tt tual average ance with t received a having ten l B.5 or better last year v 9.034, was an actual 1 cup averag, Alpha Delt! cup ranking though inel cause of thj of .ten men, Pyramid Cl The scho whole studj 7.652. The fom· fratert average for The awa twenty-nint' started in 1 fii·st award was the P ceived the the years 1! possession ' the first fr for three y Delta Phi cord is tha pha Gamm won the c· sian from February 1 manent po Cups. Phi last to win a cup wim ber 1932 f< cession. l{ silon each rent cup. Literal·~ Opportt The Lite intercollegi devoted ex in all field and univj United StE pearance 1 campuses, The pul editorial p dividual c script sub' butions ar' tive analy: and advisi ment. Acceptm cized in tb tion by le1 respect, c< sue will b number, d masters o Caldwell, Martha F Coates, a1 Conroy ar Professon les E. Wj Wheeler. Man usc: editorial ·Workshop New Y01 . summer r for all acj Dr. Ell Open in Dr. Ed~ for the vice of t ion, spokj life in wl the leade pie, whet his. goal. This f1 Ellery be Dr. Eller accept a1

.i l UNJON COLL£G[ UBfCARr , • ...- _____ .. _.. __ ._._ ... l 0 • •••••a••~~--~ I Radical f Kappa Nu Wins 1 Berg Award; I Delta U's, I Alpha Delts I Follow • • I t tS Resolution Startles Student I I t : I 1 Body : I I L--------------t t4a ........ _______ .... J Vol. LVIII., No. 3 PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1934 Kappa Nu. Attains 125 Underclassmen Men to Speak At: Student Activities Resolution Sends Student Aver~ge of 9.130 Attain Dean's List lnauguratioll Are Open New Office B d M · g I.: nto Uproar. To W1n Berg ,Cup -- Noted Individuals : · o · ·y eetin 57 Sophomores, 68 'FI\eshmen New Agency Cteated as IRe~ Fraternity Had Ten Men Out Of Twenty With Marks of 8.5 or Beiter Are Honored, bic1:ease of sult of Probe by Tax Com- To Lead Conference On ''Col- Eig·hteen Frpm Last Year mittee; Wyatt to Supervise lege Training for Govern- ment Positions~• Oct()ber 11 The student acivities office here was officially opend yestel'day af- ternoon and will be under the su- per·vision of Fred Wyatt, '32. This office, created by the tax commit- tee last June will serve as a co- ordinating agent for undergraduate activities and will relieve the bur- sar, Professor Anthony Hoadley, of l(eeping charge of financial records of activities. It will also relieve the leaders of the undergraduate organizations from keeping files. 'rhe Student Council has moved its office from North College to South College and has donated the use of its office to the new agency. Albert Morrison, '35, Startles Undergraduates by Announcement of Plan Providing· Exemption of Honor Students from Final Examinations The Dean list for the year 1933-34 Delta Upsilon Second shows a total of .fifty.;seven mem- bers from the class of '35 a:nd sixty- eight members from the class of '36. The results shoW\ -an increase All Fmternities A ve1-age Neutrals Achieve 7.7 , of four in the class of '35 and four- 7 .6; · teen in the class of '36 over that number which made the last pub- lished list in May. Educators to Be Here Dt·, Butlet· and Dr. Fan· to Be Among Speakers Those men making the roll of The Berg Cup for the highest honor are: The program for the inaugur- scholastic cup average was award- CLASS OF ~86 ation of Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox as the ed to the Kappa Nu .fraternity -in A. B. Course twelfth president of Union College daily assembly this morning. Kap- Donald J. Amm·osi, Melvin T. Bo- will bring to the cari'lpus many dis- pa Nu with a membership of 20, right, Joseph T. Cohen, Burton B. tinguished leaders in the field of won the award with a cup average Delack, Albert B. Diamante, John 'education, government and joul·nal- of 9.130. The fraternity had an ac- E. Duncan, Alvin J. Effron, Duane ism. tual average of 8.130 and in accord- Featherstonhaugh, Clement A. The two day program will open ance with the rules of the award, Finch, Nelson A. Foot, Jr., Charles 'rhursday night, October H, with a received a bonus of one unit for A. Gilmore, Jr., Arthur R. Green- conference on \College Training having ten men with an average of berg, John D. Hall, John L. Hallen- for Government\ in which Gov- 8.5 or better. Delta Upsilon, winner beck, Earl w. Henry, Herman Ku- ernor Wilbur L. Cross of Connecti- last year with a cup average of don. Robert s. Langer, Harvey M. Cltt, former Yale professOI', Dr. 9.034, was second this year with Lifset, William c. Maguire, John A. Joseph D. McGoldrick, comptroller an actual average of 8.042 and a McGuire, John s. McKnight, of New York City, fo1·mer Colum- cup average of 8.942 for 38 men. George N. Melinette. Donald c. bia p1·ofessor, and Dr. Earl E. Cum- Alpha Delta Phi was third in the Miller, George F. Murphy, Jr., Rob- mins, p1·ofessor of economics at cup ranking. Alpha Mu Sigma, al- ert 0. Nelson, Dalwin J. Niles, Rob- ·Union, will be the principal speak- though ineligible for the cup be- ert C. North, Carl E. Olson, ers. cause of the lack of a membership Thomas N. Palmatier, James L. Friday morning, October 12, the of .ten men, ranked fourth with the Palmer, William E. Parker, Jr., induction ceremonies will take Pyramid Club in fifth place. George w. Putman, Charles L. place in the Memorial chapel at 10 The scholastic average for the Reid, Jr., Raymond F. Robinson, o'clock, before delegates from the whole student body last year was John Ross, Leon J. Saietwitz, Der- leading colleges and universities 7.652. The average for the twenty- rick A. Sherman, Charles D. Stin- and learned societies as -well as four fraternities was 7.607 and the ard, Manuel Sugerman, van Vech- alumni and faculty. average for the neutrals was 7.712. ten Trumbull, Michael J. Tytlto, Dr. Riclunond to Sp~k The award this year was the George J. Ward, Theodore H. Wil- Dr. Charles Alexander Richmond, twenty-ninth of the series which mot, Richard L. Woodruff, Morton president emeritus, will give the in- started in 1914. The winner of the Yulman, Merton L. Zubres. vocation. Dr. Nicholas Murray But- first award, as well as the second, B. s. in c. E. tlet·, president of Co.lumbia Univers- was the Pyramid Club which re- · ity, will deliver an address and ceived the award in September of Michael E. Fiore, Albert H. Stev- Dr. Fox will deliver the inaugural the years 1914 and 1915. Permanent anson. B 8 . address. Dr. Hiram C. Todd, pres- possession of the first cap, won by Atthur A.\ B~~a~d. EHoward G. ident of the board of trustees, will the first fraternity to win the cup Earls, William S. Irvine, Charles officially induct Dr. Fox: into offi(!e. for three years, was gained by the M. Krull, Jr., Willis B. Plummer. The News Bureau has completed Delta Phi fraternity. The best re- B. S. in Clientistry an angement to have the inaugural cord is that of Delta Chi. then AI· Kenneth J. Frederick, Gustav F. ceremonies broadcast on the \blue'\ pha Gamma Phi, which fraternity network of the National Bxuadcast h <Continued on Page 4) Company wht'ch t's on th\ WJ,z won t e cup ten times in succes- • sion from September 1921 through J o---- chain, and to broadca..qt the February 1927, thereby winning per- ascha Heifetz Will speeches of the luncheon tllat will manent possession of three Berg follow on the \red\ network, the Cups. Phi Sigma Kappa was the GI.Ve C t H WEAF chain. last to win permanent possesion of 0flCef ere The luncheon that will take place a cup winning the cap in Septem- in the gymnasium will be attended ber 1932 for the third time in sue- by all the guests of the college who cession. Kappa Nu and Delta Up- Noted Violinist to Appear in will be addressed by Dr. Livingston silon each have a leg on the cur- Concert Sponsored by CiviC! Farrand, president of Cornell Uni- t•ent cup. versity and John H. Finely, editor ---o---- Literal'Y Workshop Gives Opportunity to Students The Literary Workshop, the only intercollegiate literary magazine devoted exclusively to the writings, in all fields, of students in colleges and universities throughout the United States, made its initial ap- pearance recently on the country's campuses. The publication has a unique editorial policy which calls for in- dividual criticism of eaoeh manu- script submitted. Rejected contri- butions are t·emitted with construc- tive analyses explaining their faultil and advising methods for improve- ment. Music Associati()n of the New York Times. Other speakers for the luncheon will be announced later. A historical exhibition of Union College will then be viewed' by the delegates. This exhibition is now being installed in the Old Gym D·orm which has been renovated for the purpose. ----0--- Lasl{el' Defends Modern Advertising From NRA Jascha Heifetz was announced la:;t week as the third mtist which the Civic Mu,;ic Association will brlng to Schenectady this year. His concet t before members of that organization on November 8 will mark his first appearance in this city in ten years. With this noted violinist the current Civic Music program includes the Boston Sym- phony on December 15 and John Charles Thomas, baritone, on March 4. Spen.lr.ing before the Boston. Con- ---------------·-(•' Sunday Preachers Listed for the Year Dr. C. Richmond, Dean C. Brown, Bishop G. A. Old- ham to Speak This Year Scraps Discussed Semerad Admits 1933 Fights Were Not .. On the Level\ ; Investig·ation Continues A huge wave of enthusiasm bu1st futth at the first student body meet· The report of the Tax Committee, The list of Sunday preachers for ing of the year, yesterday morning, this yeat·, as announced Satutday when Monlson, '35, malie a motion by President l<,ox, includes men that all students receiving a gtade of eighty-five ot· better in any which was made in June, was the considered as among the best pul- first thorough investigation into the student tax which. has been pit speakers in the country. They made at Union College in recent tnclude college presidents, leaders years. Every activity, save debat- of the important seminaries, and ing, has had its appmpriation paston; of the great chm·ches. changed as a result of the findings of the committee. The greatest re- Rev. Philemon F. Sturges, dean duction was made in the allotment of the Cathedral Church of l:lt. for athletics which suffered a loss 1:-'aul in Boston will speal( m the of $2,000. Seven hundred and nine- chapel Sunday, Septeml>er 30. '!'he ty dollars was appropriated for the schedule of the rest of the li:J34-3n student activites office, year ts as follows· ---0--- Dr. Fox Addresses Historical Society Gives Principal Speech at Anniversary Cele b I' at i o n Saturday at Duanesburg Itev. Lynn llouglt October 7. Rev. Lynn Harold Hough, professor of homiletics ot Drew University, Madison, New Jersey. October 14, Rev. George Buttrick of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, N. Y.; Octo- ber 21, Rev. George Hugh Smith ot Scarsdale; October 28, Rev. Leslie Glenn, rector of the Chnst Churoeh, Cambridge, Mass. November 4, Rev. Alfred E. Stearns, principal emeritus of Phil- lips Academy, Andover, Mass.; No- \Amel·ica has always been into!- vember 11, Rev. Thomas L. Harris, erant of the idle rich, but the man adviser in religion at Harvard Uni· removed from economic wa11t who verity, Cambndge, Mass.; Nov em- gives his time and energy to public ber 18, Rev. Halford E. Luccocl{, :;ervice has always commanded its professor of homiletics, Yale Uni- admiration and its gratitude,\ de- versity Divinity School; November clared Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox Satur- 25, Rev. Andrew Mutch, Bryn day afternoon in the principal ad· M c d1ess at the sesqui-centennial cele- awr Presbytetian hurch, Bryn b . f h Mawr, Pa. ratwn o t e building of the Gen- eral Nmth Mansion at Duanesburg. Bishop of Albany A br·onze tablet, donated by the December 9, Rt. Rev. G. Ashton state and erected upon a granite Oldham, bishop diocese of Albany; block purchased by Parnona December 16, Dr. Henry S. Coffin, Grange of the Schenectady County president of the Union Theological Historical Society, was dedicated Seminary, New York. by Pete1· Nelson, assistant state li- Rev. John Ingham, stated clerk brarian. Mr. Edwin G. Conde, of the general synoli of the Be- president of the Schenectady formed Church of America will be County Historical Society which present January 13 of the new arranged the progran1, accepted· year. January 20, Dean Charles R. the gift, which was unveiled by Brown of the Divinity School of Ma1·y McQuade, eight year old Yale University in New Haven; daughter of the present owner of January 27, Rev. Elmore McKee, the mansion. rector of the Trinity Church, Buf- course be exempt fl·om any final ex- amination in that course. The din that followed the statement of that motion was of such great pwpm·- tions that it took fully a minute btfore the group could be quitctl down ::;o that business coultl con- tinue. Tea for the guests of the college the motion was ~econded and an· other uproar took place. With m·- lier r·estot ed, Ral·ph Semerad, Sche- nectady, president of the student body, announced that such a mo· lion could only be presented in the for·m of a tesolutiun to the facUlty. M·orrisun agreed and the vole was unanimou.sly in favor of sending the resolution to the faculty. LaBt year the students of Union College took a great interest in the educational policies of the college, ano this morning's meeting seems to be the forerunner of the contin- uance of that same interest. Fn•shman Scraps Discusst>d Freshman scraps came up for their shat·e of discussion. It was pointed out that in 1 ecent years the fr·eshmen have outnumbeted the sophomores to such great pro- portions that the fights seem to be outworn for the college. One o:;tu- de·n t I etaliated that the sophomore won them in 1933, thus showing that there was safficient interest in them at that time to warrant their coninuance. This point was answered from the chair when President Semerad stated that the 1933 scraps which the ,;ophomm e,; won, were not strictly on the level.\ A slight commotion was caused by this announcement although no one was really surprised at the disclos- ure. The matter of ft eshman-tioph- omore scraps was then tabled until the next meetin;.: uf the student body, scheduled fot· nextl Monday. This afternoon, the Student Coun- The two other speakers who hon· falo. ored General North, aide de-camp under Baron Steuben, adjutant· general under Washington, three tlmes speaker of the state assem- Dr. Jesse Holmes cil committee which was appointed l;!ly, T.li!ited States Senator <the first from Schenectady County l, and a member of the first canal commission,-were Mrs. R. H. Giv· ves, state regent of the D. A. R., and George W. Featherstonhaugh of Sc)l.enecta,dy revealed that Gen- eral North was the first white child to be born in Maine. The Rev. Mr. William H. Barringer, deputy of February 3, Dr. Jesse H. Holmes tu investigate the matter will meet professor of philosophy at Swart- with the class of 1938 to get their more College. Pa.; February lO, sentiments and suggestions as to Rev. Bernard I. B·eu, canon of St. the form which the o;craps will take John'.l Cathedral, Providence. R. I.; in the future. February 17, Rev. Hugh Black of The customaty procedUie of ex- the Union Theological Seminary, plaining the fle:;hman 1 ules to all New York; February 24. Rev. Rein- a.;.sembled was followed at the up· hold Niebuhr of the Union Thea- ening of the meeting and that was logical Sefnihai·y, New Yor·lt. followed .by a reading of the mote important clauses of the student March 3, President J. Edgar Park of Wheaton College in Nor- body constitution by Mt-. Semel ad. Accepted manuscripts are criti- cized in the issue followin.e; public:l- tion by leading authorities. In this respect, contents of the current is- sue will be analyzed in the second number, due October 15th, by such masters of the craft as Erskine Caldwell, author and playwright; Martha Foley, editor; Grace Stone Coates, author and editor; Jack Conroy and Joseph North, editors; Professors Albert H. Nelson Char- es E. Weniger, and Effie' Jane Wheeler. Heifetz was selected as the thil\d ference on Retail Distribution, to- artist of the series last week when, day, Albert D. Lasker, Chairman of befOJ e the end of the drive, the Board, Lord And Thomas, in an association's membership was vil'- add1ess entitled \'Advettising's New tually filled to capacity. A waiting Place in Disti·ibution\ attempted list was formed of late applicants, to justify modern advertising. He who are now the only ones who delivered the speech over the Na- may find a place on the Civic tional Broadcasting Company's m!t- Music roll before next year. Con- work at 1:25 P. M. certs are open to members only, no Referring to misrepresentation admissions being available for sep- of their wares by pl'Oducers arate concerts. through illegitimate advertising, Ml'. Lasker said: the state grange, was unable to at- tend the celebration. \Monuments are check-marl's that mankind has set against those peronalities, events and ideals,\ continued Dr. Fox, \which it de- sires to be especially remembered and to be cherished as the eternal property of the race.\ Most monu- ments in times past have marked scenes of war,-the clashing of two heroisms, though in partisan prej- udice we oftentimes will recognize ton, Mass.; March 10. Rev. J. Gor- o--- don Gilltie of the South Congrega- Frenclt Government Honors tiona! Church, Springfield, Mass.; March 17, Professor Carlton J. H. Dr. E. Ellel'Y With a Medal Hayes of Columbia University, New Manuscripts may be sent to the editorial offices of The Literary · Workshop, 229 West 28th Street New Yorl~ City, throughout th~ . summer months. Payment is made for all accepted contributions. 01--- Dr. Ellet·y Is Speaket· At Opening Chapel Service Dr. Edward Ellery, in his address f<;r the first Sunday Chapel ser- ~l'lce of the academic year at Un- IOn, spoke on the episode in Moses\ life in which he was deposed from the leadership of a rebellious peo- ple, when he had nearly reached his. goal. This fundamental princi}Jle Dr. Ellery believes to be man's religion. Dr. Ellery states that man should accept and pacticl! a true religion. Infant l'rodigy \Of course there have been fa· Heifetz, who has successively kers and frauds in advertising just been infant prodigy, boy wonder, as there have been fakers and and adolescent genius, is now one frauds in the sciences, in medicine, of the most brilliant figures in mod· in law, in politics, but we <lo not ern concert circles, a great and condemn all these professions be- mature artist whose concerts, from cause of the small minority of fa- London to Shanghai, bring out the kers and frauds. We organize with- ''s.r.o.\ sign. Ten years ago the last in and without the profession or Schenectady audience to hear Hei- craft to regulate and eliminate fetz brought him to the slage after them. WE DO NOT BUR:N DOWN his last program number for well THE BARN TO GET RID OF over a dozen encores, an ovation THE RATS.\ that has not been approached in The speaker also compared mod- several years. ern politics to advertising, stating For many years Heifetz enjoyed that the government in no way at- the reputation of an artist whose tempts to control the very eveident e;x:ecution was of amazing perfec- aqvertising of the politician. In bon, but whose interpretations favor of advertising, he advanced were a bit cold. Of late, however, the argument that it creates de- critics have noticed a new fire in sire for a higher standard of living his playing. One w1·ote, \Heifetz is and thus serves as a soda! stim- gr.eater, if possible, now than ever. ulus. H1s e;x:traordinary technique, flaw- On concluding, Mr. Lasker said: less mtonation, impeccable musi- \That vital basic factor of all ad- cianship, and golden tone are vertising, the free will re-sponse on crowned by a new warmth and hu- the part of those addressed can- manity.\ not live under the limitations of Dues of the association, now pay- regimentation. The freedom of ad- able, may be sent to Donald. vertising must live in order that Hawkes at the Psi Upsilon House we may have the freedom of the or to Mrs. Henry A. Schauffler, consumer-and, the very f1•eedom of 1174 Parkwood boulevard. the press and of the air.\ but one.\ ----0--- William D. Williams '32 Given Duke Scholarship Mr. William D. Williams <E. E. '32) of Scotia has recently been awarded a graduate scholarship in Physics at Duke University where he plans to take work leading to his Doctor of Philosophy degree. York; March 24, Rev. Archibald Blaclt of the First Congregational Church, Montclair, N. J. There is· spealtex· scheduled for the 31st of March. April 14, Dr. C. A. Richmond, president emeritus of Union Col- lege; April 28, Rev. Ralph W. Sock· man of the Christ Episcopal Church, Park avenue and 80th street, New York, and June 10 the commencement address will be given. CALENDAR Tomoi'l\OW Daily Assembly- Ralph Sem- erad, President, Student Coun- cil. Mr. Williams studied in the De- partments of Physics and Matlle- matics at Union and received his masters degree this past June. D'Ur- ing the past year he has carried out an investigation of certain of the electrical properties of the . alkali metals, potassium, sodium and cesiUm, in the department of Physics. Thursday Daily Assembly--Professor Will- iam W. Bennett. Friday Daily Assembly-Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. Dr. Edward Ellery, Dean of the Faculty wa,; honored tecentely by the presentation on the part of the French government of a bronze medal as an expression of thanks and gratitude for his \cooperation toward the success of the Lafayette Centenary celel>rations\. On one side of the medal there is a face of Lafayette, taken from the effigy of a medal engraved by Jacques Edouard Gatteaux. The reverse side bears an inscription worded by the Academie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres: \America et Gallia Memores MCMXXXIV.\ It was through the efforts of Dr. Harold A. Larrabee, Professor of Philosophy, that recognition of Dr. Ellery's ef.forts was brought about. Various other individuals and in- stitutions were similarly honored in recognition of their efforts toward the success of the celebrations. Among these were the deans of Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Colum- bia, Vermont, and Cornell Univer- sities and Dartmouth College; and the governors of Connecticut New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Massa- chusetts, Vermont and New Jersey.

THE CONCORDIENSl!S, 'TUESDAY, SEPTEMBEfi 25, 1934 Two MUSIC by <llnnro ities office in Old Chapel would make it con- • • • venient to leave the key for such a case the1·e trnsts and in that wny only announcements pertain- . ing to the college itself would be pGsted Farrago PH:JLI·P DUCHSCUERER We had a very nice procession app1oach we notice that the ~an is . even If One half of th,e philoso.pby watering a plot oj' roses, a grm on . f th . 'h i f lf 1 ttl his face. Mygawd, to think ~bat The fa·st o · e mn, ser es o · .---------------------.....,··. 1 there. The expense for such a bulletin case WQUld department did make ltse . a 1 e after all the man led us to .bellev.e organ recitals was officially opened attil·ed in a modest bi·own su1t: a~d he goes bour•geois, an enJOYS 1 Sunday hy Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh \.d Oa11sa PtJf'IGI Parole ABsai\ FouNDED 1877 . be comparatively small and the value t() the conspicuous. It stalked m <:almly, d t took. it~ place amidst the d1stm- too. In embarra~~ment we cross. in the Memorial Chapel. Compos- ••ul··hed gent 1 ·y, mournfully caped the street, and sneak through, not o • itions of Bach, Borodine, Handel, MEM6ER ~5ociated ~lb~iate 'JITts5 -11934 <il'ou;;;i~:IDu}tiJI 1935 .... .- Vo1SCOOSU< Sule a ml r:xdusive :-lallonal A.dvertlsing Rc!'r~s~n­ tallv<!, ;:o-.'atiunal Adv~rtisiug S.,rvke, Inc., 11 West 4~ml St., =--· Y. C .• 4UU ;-(o. Mll'htgan Ave., ·Chicago. lltinul•. .::.:c.;=:.:.:..---------------·- - The official newspa:per of the students ot Union College. Published Tuesdays and F·ridays throughout the college ye-ar, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post O!'fice as Second Class Ma.il Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered n.nywh.e1e In the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Address all business communications to William H. Fitzgerald, Delta Upsilon House, Union Col- lege, Schenectady, N. Y. All other communica- tions to Clemens F. Hathaway, Chi Psi Lodge, Union College, Schene~tady. SENIOR BOA.RD Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-ln-Chlet William H. Fitzgerald ........ Business Manager Joseph A. Woolman- ............. News Editor Milton A. Berger ... _ ............ Sports Editor Thornton W. Whipple .... Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD J. Anderson R. North V. Trumbull V. Gilbert A. S! •!Venson Issue Editor ............ V. M. Gilbert Assistant Editol' ~ ..... R. E. Passenger Reporters Contributing to This Issue M. Bedell W. Fetguson R. Doolittle R. Snyder F. Gage N. Stewart W. Foote C Garrison Tuesday, September 25, 1934 student~ would be materially increased. and gowned. noticing. W h t t l 'e out a fel·low' and Dupre composed the ><t·ograul. We were afforded several other e a e o ma' · · r .chuckles that same morning. The columnist a liar, but such seem~ to Among these selection~ tendered, ·obviou 15 embarra,;sment of the fac- be the case. How could Jeremy. was Bach'~ \Toccata and :l!'ugue in ulty beiore filing out of the chapel, see Bulldog Drummond ll:t Proc\ot·~· 1) Minor\. This piece is one of 'a.nd it>~ final solutwn w1th the on the 1.5th when the ptcture as · t h d · the c1'ty on the l·l·th of .Bach'~ most dramatic works, anti .. chemistry department .leading ou s owe m ~ the prexy and his guest, did have. September? Careful, Jerell!Y! . probab1y .ran'lts among the highe~t The Concordiensis wishes to extend its an element of humor. The following tidbit of Elmer of all his compositions. Rice's is submitted to you for your I . t t 1 t' t th l' ,.,,U Although the Student Council b t' \Toccata and Fugue in D Minot·\ teartles congra U a lOllS 0 e \.appu .n offl'c· 1 auy abolished this year's un.- appro a wn: bl t k , t a ho.s a ver\ lnterestmg histot·y. 'l'he CONGRATULATIONS · h B C f tl de 1 class scraps, a notice from the \l am not a ue-s oc >~ng o · ' fratemity fol' winnmg t e erg· up ·01' te, bulletin board leads us to believe blue-nose. I can get as much fun word t()ccata is a compositton in- b d t f th th te of tended to utilize and display the 1933-34 college year. For several ye::ti'S this' that ~omething must have gone as any 0 Y. ~m 0 e EdeaW· r varieties of touch on the keyboard. ami~:; several nights ago: \LOS'f A Beatr1ce L1llle and ?f ynn, fraternitY has knocked on the doot• Gf the' pair of blue trousers with a belt., and even upon occaston out of the Bach uses this method entively • . If found please leave at the D. U. theater of Noel Coward and Fred- through.out the piece, By running· top, but always were defeated by the lUll'I'OW- hou 8 e or phone, etc.\ Hang on to erick Lonsdale. I do co11fess that his fingers over the keyboard W> if ' them frosh! Alexander woolcott I cannot stomach such bloodless to try the touch, he burstg into est of margins. ranks being caught without one's. and puerile artificialities as \The· very rull harmony, and then settles on as the third most embarrassing Shining Hour,\ \Another Lan- down to the initial theme or fugue. The system of adding .1 of the aetna! avet·- situation possible. No, we won't guage\ and \Paris Bound\ tnot .to In other words, he writes in such mention the first two. mention more recent and conspiC- a. manner that the ol'\gtnal theme age of a fraternity fm• each man with an More fun with the freshmen- uous .examples!, but then every one is repeated or 'imitated throughout. f 8 t b tt t II 'fhl·~ game wa~ brought to OUI' at- ha~ his limitations.\ . . . 'l'he introductory runs, however, averaQe o 5 per cen or e er na ura Y ~ ~ th d' t d b t th '\ tention by a member of the faculty. This ·:;tatement comc1de~ Wl. are 1sconnec e , u ey a1·e soon favors the larg·et• fraternity. In view of this: One freshman paper reads thus: our seJ?'tlment ex?-ctly. Fazrago ~s woven together. This work is de- ~ . , . not go1ng to gqUlrm out of hiS' veloped in so leisurely ·a manner fact it is even mol'e significant that l:{a.pp.a \ 'The Ne~ York. Ttmes was. m- underwear trying to be flippant. that the technique contained thel·e- strumental m brmgmg me to Um~:m. -E. i in is not fully realized. Bach, ·how- · Nu, with only twenty members, won th.e cup. llalf of the fl'atemity, or ten, had attained this high scholastic ranking. l read in th~ paper that Umon ___ 0 · ·ever, does not choose to weary the offered courses In which a student , 'listener, nor does he want tq brealt could choose any and all subjects Middlesex Notes · down the in1pression he has already he likes. I never lilted 'The Times' Q __ made. Thus, he returns to the anyway. \Those football-goal-tearer-down-. main theme, and in a astonishingly \1 graduated from high school ers, otherwise known as students a short time, the toccata is brought last June as one of the ten honor- of Rensselaer Polytechni~\ have .to a close with the utmost of eli- highest actual average of all the fratel'llities able students.\ just started their llOth year of max. l::!e does not break off the Disregarding the last sentence something or other. In an editorial fugue instantly as did some of the which pulls down the fig leaf in all congratulating them on their long earlier composers, but with his na- ~vent>;. we wonder what\ go.ug to life, the Herald Tribune sucdntly turr:.l flow of music in mind, he !tappen to the writer if he ever cv •. 11nented thrt they are \an odd- mo.Js the piece to an organized finds himself in the predicament of l\r•oss-mixture.\, ln. its September coJa. One year ago this same fraternity had the here, but owing to this bonus system, ran second in the competition for the cup. NOTICE TO FRESHMEN \ .;enior we have in mind, who had 19 i.ooue. \Ve must confess. that Bach's place in music is thus far to change his major for lack of despite its Republican bit.s, we higher than that of a modern re- course8 taught in that department. have ah1 ays liked the He1 ald-Trib. former or inventer of new idea:;. Ah well, he'll learn. .'.ml c!::ue we d:a·;t infere.tces He can pr·obably be considered the Another young ingenu speaks of from the fact that the nell band greatest writer of organ musi~ of the library with its glistening leader, Mr. Niles, is also leader of all times. golden dome high over the campus. the R. P. I. group? He must have been. reading the x x x catalogue. Still another one con- II II stantly refers to the college and its Drarr.atic activity is seething ·In God We Trust inmates, both faculty and students. mightily as usual in Schenectady. Is the gift born with. them, we Of com·s~ there are many people ~~============-.! query timorously, or must one cui- who believe, what with the Mvunte- The resolution passed in yeste1·day's stu- 1·ather improbable that the members of the tivate it? banlls doing \Enemy of the People\ Scene: A. pleasant garden in back. and the Civic Players contemplat- dent l.Jody meeting to the effect that stu- class of 1938 has seen it before, so it is for of a one family house in the city's Lng \Hedda Gabbler,\ Schenectady residential district. We are walk- i• rapidly going lbscene. It h:ts been said before in these columns that w0 are open to criticism and opinhns on any part of our editorial policy or on any phase of the functioning of the college. It is NOT A. NEW IDEA . . . It life on the Hardened Artery proves too Uluch for you, amble up to the Held some afternoon. 'I'here you may tind the College rest cure pzodding gmgerly at the green- sward to tile tune of FERA and 35c per hour. The idea is very simple, and very easy to grasp. You place tile pick against the ground, so, and Jean on it, so, and hope with everything you have that a hole will :sooner ot· later appear. The sight of that little tal>leau brought to mind a nursery ditty, thus: dents attaining a grade of eighty-five or that reason we are addressing you. We note with interest that the ing along the street when in the )a!;t time the Mountebanks used better in any course be exempted from a Lettet·s will be printed providin2: that the distance we perceive a familiar \omen was in a production of \Ten - face, half hidden by shrubs. As we KigM.s in a Bar-room,\ with the· final examination in that course is not a new editor knows who writes them. We shall ------------- estimable Mr. Stanley dit·ecting. It 'd L~ 11 · th t eme t'nter·est that W k' B t Ed't • 1 was objected to on moral grounds, 1 ea. r o owmg e ex r · withhold publication of the writer's 11ame if ee s es I or1a so they say, by President Rich- the students took in the educational policies it is so desired. Very often you disagree MAN AND 1\IACHINES m~P~:opos of that, we offer our f th 11 l t \t 1 • rt' ·htfully ex The study of science has been fo1· th M O e co ege as year 1 s g - with something around the college. The Con- years the express purpose of stu- sympa Y to rs. Achilles. pected that this proposal will be given proper cordi ens is is your medium fot• !!:etti 11 ()\ trour dents entering the Institute. Be- x x x - & ' cause habits of thinking are often 'Then there is the idea of the attention from both faculty and administra- gTievance over to the rest of the college. lazy, a common mistake made by sopohomore frosh scraps. At one those men is that of seeing machin- time, in the days when college boys tion. Make use of it. ery with its precision as an entity were he-men, and gh·ls longed to unrelated to man. hear the victory call of the ape, And many leave the Institute \Heads Out\ they were quite a with only part of the entire picture lot of fun. Of course, one man got of life clear. They are able to deal his eye,; poked out, .but the spirit with machines well, to build them was there. Now when about 8 per and to control them. But their rela- cent of the sophs turn out to face tions with fellow-beings are per- a full complement of fmshmen who haps strained, unharmonious. Why? are seeking to emulate the Merri- Because those men have never wells or Stover at Yale, iL is no really learned to deal with men in longer ~unny, and spirit, other than the complex and unexpected rela- combative seems lacking. Besides, tionships that occur in the business the Idol is probably better as a world. worlt of art than as a target for The King is in the White House, spenctmg all the money, The Queen is on the front page Other contemporaries of Union have A NEW VENTURE exemption systems and there is nothing prohibitive in the idea that deserving stu- dents of this college should be given special privileges. Any man who attains an averag-e The opening of the coordinatm•'s office of bette1· than eighty-five in any course for (students' activities office) yesterday after- a whole yeat· certainly could not have done noon marked the [)pening of a new field Qf so by bluffing·. l.Jsually such men do g·ood cooperation between the various underg-rad- work on the final and should thet·efore be uate activities of the campus. In th.e past each activity was a separate unit irt itself and a different man was responsible for the finances of each organization. relieved of the nwnotony of cramming. There are those who might say that a stu- dent who has kept up his daily assignment~ does not need to cram. Yet ther·e is no one who does not review his year's work in some form or other at the end of ~lay ot· eal'ly Junt->. Thus. it is fitting that a definite l'e- ward be given th.ose who have provt'cl them- selves to be competent over the course of a year. PAYS TO BE NEAT The condition of the college bulletin board seems to get worse each year. At PI'esent there is an almost incalculable number of an- nouncements of one sort or another posted on the bulletin b(}al'd at the come1· of the Old Chapel. A more thorough check-up, preventing the lapsing of accounts, a closer adherence to in- dividual budgets and a sure filing system are :;ome of the advantages of this new agency. Already the work has piled high for the sten- ographer employed there; if the volume of \\'ork continues at such a high level, it may be that in the future a full time stenographer will be employed. Evel'y credit possible is due the Student Council Tax Committee for its thmough in- vestigation of the annual tax last yea.r and the report it turned in whereby it '\\'as found possible to t·educe the total tax and still establish a new organization. looking very funny, ' Th.e Knaves from out of Col- leges are reaping all the plums, Th7 G:ove~·nment alphabetically ts teedmg all the bums, • * * You can make a machine work undergladuate paint pots. · • . \Pair of blue pants, with bell., lost behind Chapel. Please re- tum.\ So goes a notice on the bul· letin ·board, where the elite g() to tack up their 97 theses. Console yourself. my boy. Professor Larra- bee tells us that clothes are a badge of lo:;t innocence. for you if you understand its mech- x x x anism, if you have read about it in textlJook.s. But you cannot make . To !mprove on Shakespeare. the men work for y()u if you have sl\uatlOn of G.enetal Johnaon ~eem:o never tried it and developed an in- to be a case of \Love's Labor Lost\ tuitive ability to appraise men and· If it :;ignifles anything, the only discover their real personalities. !Jhllosophy major in college is dig- During your stay at Technology :.;ing dit<:hes on FERA time. don't study machines alone. Make S. R. C. · · . Thez e seems to me something radically WIOng with a group of it a point to come in contact with ---o----- people, to discover their likes and dislikes, their whims and failings. How best can you meet the max- imum number of people with the greatest facility? How can you meet the maximum number of peo- ple with the greatest facility? How can you malte your free time give you a healthy balance of recreation and at the same time develop you into a social being who adapts him· :\elf rea~ily and easily to a change· mg envtronment? What activity at the Institute wil give you an an- swer to these. questions? The Tech will get you out among people. It will do th.at because it ts people that make news. It is peo- ple that give opinions. You will meet people and malte friends among them. friends who will tell you o,yhat they are thinking and creatmg. You wlll be given re- sponsibilities, the responsibilities of accuracy and sincerity. In The Mai 1 ~tudents that support dramatics E music, and sport as Union men d~ ditot·, The Conc01 dienbis: ami then tut·n indifferent shoulders The quaint custom of lining up to d h the f~esh~en and sophommes on war t eir danceband both finan- cppostte sides of a field so that they cinlly and orally, Tryouts for the can throw tomatoes at each other Garnet Goblins were held iast and the spectatm s has been dead week, and very successfully. Now .:;o long that it smells. Repeated we . can all sit back comfortably attempts ,by \Concordy\ editorials agatn and prepare to hire orches- by the .student Council, and by lias from other colleges for our cla~~ ?ffzcers to inject life into the dances, while a little initial impetus trad1t10n have aroused only feebl would ~esult in a more than self- ~~ulrmi~gs: This pos·thumous ex~ supportmg organization. If more 1 · t_ence tsn ~ even amusing, much of us had the \buy British\ habit less a cred1t to the college Let's things might go on the up grade. ' ~ay Amen and bury the CO!J;se! H Only fteshmen 1 who don·t know · · · eadline: \Genuine Females any b tt l to Feature Next Mountebanks Pro- e . er turn out voluntarily for ductlon.\ Well, well. Nice to be the .set :'ps. The sophomores jus1 guaranteed. aren t mterested. Last year the We are fully in accord with the principles of this new office and hope that its success will be recorded at an early date. Not 111any scrap leaders drafted exactly thirty · · Life remarlts that \Harvard men from the class of '36 to throw tmhe':l are crazy. They cut holes In tomatoes fo1· their Alma Mater eu sleeves and sew on leather A~'HI the football squad helped the~ patches.'' We threw scissors away V:In the tug-of-war. It was a r · m 1929 and let Nature take its nng spectacle. s u- course. And as for Harvard we Such a posting station is not intended for more than half of the announcement which adom it now. Rainy days render the condi- tion of all bills tacked thereon such that they are almost incomprehensible. The only feas- ible solution to the problem seems to be to colleges of .Union's size have such .ag-encies e1·ect another bulletin board which would be for the convenience of the undergraduate enclosed with a glass case that would be kept activities. That the coot:dinator's office will locked at all times. be of lasting benefit to the colleg-e seems Insl~e the doors that line l.he somellmes drab corridors of Tech- nology men are maltin~ machines but they are first d:'a!ing with m~n of Infinitely varying person- ah~les, more subtle. complex mech- amsms that those made out of wood and steel. Textbooks give the answers to engineering problems but no text-book. gives the answe 1 ·~ to , problems of human relation- ships. Experience Is the only an- swer the experience of getting out If. interclass cont~sts ale t b suspect t.hat the whole buslness contmued, they should be re~ise~ started With leaning on tbe Copley· ~~ 1 d ~ade more effective and color- Plaza Merry-go-round. . . , suggest that there is noth mg hkP. an interclass 1 . - · · · Our keyhole man has been to arouse friendly . lspe hng bee oseveer to Washburn agai'n, and it bl . rlva ry· and it' th pu ICily value can't b ' . .e ms at Dr. Cummins has mov- among men. -Tb.e Tech, M. I. T, The establishment of the student's activ- practically assured from the start. mated! Also to t e ovet-esh- ehd to South College. Can It be that classes to c~operat:acn~ ~ncomln·g e has some way of divining the ~dhoyl nCootntheastv?e a Pin-the-tail'og~-~~~: future? Mr. Hoadley insists that it 8 warm ln Washburn through the winter. .. v.v.T. -STOOGE Varsit Crusbe~ Fine Open-] abies Ba~ Runs; Bil By MH A slight v once mote su1 tege, based m Saturd.ay's sc vazsity .g1Idm spite of the fir~t year mm and the fact 1 eal test for Hce session satisfactory t The .fhst ~ rathez· ragge( both teams ·i mistakes. As however, the teams impro made a beau sideline in tl ·would have · their feet in B1own mad· tacltle and d. we1e extHm :'large faclo1 ·backs to m< · ,was the imp 'blocking. Cl · .lano, Jiggs !'Finch were :'.clealing the flier. Tael< ! ; For the fir \ling was fail ldton made I I the fallen f :dazed. Bob 'no slouch ar 1 fense wol'ir 'line. There ··which will h .. · of·ox·e this ar ··greatest effi culties being , his feet too f diving. At times c . cha) ging, ofJ In the third · the var·sity l mately the 1 . signal, the f, team seeme over the yea . wide enougl field to pa~ Btown side- the goal lir up this go< varsity seen rest and th ferent attit . is a lot to I contributed also stating 'be driven 1 took the f' Saturday. · to make an to say that' Ne1 This weel in correctin as shown i day. Sever also be helc defects In game. Nm pletely mes the signals knowledge points will throughout scrimmage good meas1 AI Steve Don. Liffit· ·Ernie Bro'\1 · ed up wel ;were in U 'Potts wa: 'through th noon, whiJ, . :at guard a· .tremely we ·Rotunda is and refuse play. Cam1 .Cont1 \String ' 1 the senior .;chapel an· :phalet No 'hearing tl 'body illll Groups w• .long queu fl'()m the ;Blue Gate mtervals, line and fi .cedure em .:catch up, )nlng of th .(tor Pottet '·pound his As the they WOUl• the age. ' ferent fro the camp1 Dlirlng versation Up in ml .· came in a : ceived a 1 week and town the hours wJ.t

:1 ,_ I' ,_ u· e- .s. 1e of ] ry up !1'8 tre ~n- me tle, lce so, ith ole ~he ght > -· e, 1- te ly lelt, re- bul- > to ,sole .rra- a bing 1 of •tics, 11 do lders nan- the iast Now tably ches- our let us ·self- more 1abit, ie. nales Pro- .o be rvard es in ather away e its l, we 1iness >pley- been ld it mo.v- e that g the hat it :h the E THE CONOORDIENS.I<S TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1934 , - Three Varsity Offensive Tennis Tournament Crushes Freshmen Draws 59 Entrants· Fine Open-Field Blocking· En-· Captain Stroebel Heads Draw,: abies Backs to Ma:ke Long·· Followed by Cohen; Fresh-· Runs; Bill Waldrou Reports man Third, Is Dark Horse; By MILTON A. BERGER By MI<LT@N BEDELL Fifty-nine students are •entered A slight wave of optimism is 'in the annual Fall Tennis Tourna-· Let's avoid an un.fortuna(e oc<:unence such as ha.ppened last Y.ear . .I ment which .g·ets under way this a:f-. mean the postponement 1lf the 1933 fall tennis tournament until th1s once mo1e smging through the col- ternoon. Th.is number represents s.pdng w·hen it was supposed to have bee~. ~ut ne':'er wa~ comple~ed. 'lege, based mostly on the results of a drop from 86 who ente1ed last Sloppy weather and the l.axness of the paxtrc 1 pants 1n makmg appomt- Saturd.ay's sctimmage between the year. ·rnents with their opponents for matches had made this necessaxy. ~e val::;ity .gl'id•men and· the ho::h. In Captain George Stroebel has been, can't cont!ol the elements, but the second I eason is in most cases m- seeded number one anu heads the. excusable. Tirne iw't that precious that a little might not be spared to · spite of the inexperience of the upper b11ac)l:.et in the draw. Jue: 'keep the tou1nament hom falling far behind ~chedule. The to';lrnament first year men, the rain-swept field, Cohen, sophomore sta1· of last. gives the entrants a chance t() see how they match up agamst men nnd the fact that it was the first yl\ar's tennis squad was seeiled :;ec- whom they othe1wise would neve1 play. It se1yes as a m~asuxe o~ one's leal test for both teams, the prac- ond and placed at the bo~tom of ability unde1· plessUJe. A playel' whose game 1IDp1oves w1th the 1mpor- , ·the lower bracket. The third seeded~ tance of the match is often ca:lled in the realm of both professional and .tice session Satu1 day wa~ fahly man is a f1·eshman, Fl'itz Hawley, amateu1 spo1 t a \money play.el'.\ It is this type of player, not the one satisfactory to the various coaches. who is expected to be the dark who .iooked like a million dolla1s as long· as it is a \money player\_ It The fhst pa1t of the game was bourse in the tournament. In the· is this type of player, not the one who looked· like a milli?n dollars as 1·athe1· ragged with the coaches of· past week he has met and defeated long as it is a practice match, who is wanted on the va1srty. The f~ll both teams ·intervening to conect both Jack Moffett and Austin Fox, matches may figme in a large deg1ee in the coach's choice of vars1ty mistakes. As the game progressed, lettermen of the 1934 squad. Mof- materia:!. ~~a~:ei~~~~v~~~ect~:~~s s~~nZ~!~ fl'tt has been seeded fourth. seventeen men comprise the frosh football !>quad, not evl'n two made a beautiful ·dash down the The pairings made it convenient full teams, It seems as if Coach Nitchman's chru·ges will have to ' Sl 'd·elJ'ne in the filet half which to give the four ~;eeded men bye,; for the first Found. !<~ox dz ew the do the il·on man act. Should thet·e be any injul'ies the team may · would hsve b1ought the crowd to 1 . their feet in a 1 egular game _Ernie fifth •bye. possibl::y be shortbande·d. The new flxst-year schedules are large Y B1own made several slides off The l'ah•ings reSJ:lonsillle for the small turnout 'l'he .pre-medics lind their after- . tackle and dashes a1ound end that noons talj;en up with labs and cow·ses :which they wouldn't have had · 1 t d A Fir·st r·ound matches mu.;t be 'were extl·emely we I execu e · •mtil the 1 'I' ~ophomore \.ear unde1· the old S\stem It may turn out ' f t - th bTt of the completed by five p. m. on Tmsuay, ~· ~ \' \' : large · ac 01 10 e a 1 1 Y '\\ tl · · that the whrol~ sy.s.telll of freshman spo1·ts may have to be curtailed 'backs to mal{e several long 1uns October· 2. L' trst r oun pu1nng,; ut·e v · was the tmp!ovement in open-field as follows: agai:n. On the other har•d, the varsity should benefit, since the :blocking_ Cha11ie K1ull, Joe Mi- UpJlet• BJ•ack!\i uppel'Class programs have been somewhat softened. .lana, Jiggs Rotunda, and .'Tack iFin<:h were especially adept m G. St!oebel,'35, !byel R. P. L has started football practice and expects a fair enough season :;clea1 ing the way for the ba·ll•car- B. Bishop,'35, vs. J. Rosen,'35. despite heavy losses thx·ough ineligibil!ties and graduation. Tony Fiori ;rier. R. Passenger,'37, vs. T. Whipple,'35 will captain the team fwm his guard post. Bud Sawyer and Jake Kales· H. Enzer,'28, vs. H. Tiffany,'38 zar are baclt to wony the Union tacklexs. Last year the former made ·; Tackling E:ffrctlve A Lawrence,'38, vs. H. T. Jennings, a couple of fifty yaxd runs for touchdowns, .while the latter a~ded his ; For the filst scrimmage .the tack- '35. bit to the two man show in the form of a field: goal and a pomt after fling was faitly effective. Van Wal- A. Poggenpohl,'35, vs. R. Deutl,'35. touchdown making the final cScore 16 to 0. K;o'leszar played at tackle. i d10n made two tackles that made P. Beik,'35, vs. S. Rollin,'38. Coach Km~pf is searching for a center, Quinn, last year's regular not ! the fallen fre·shmen look rather J. Bergstrorn,'38, vs. G. McGee,'36. ha vine r etuxned to school. Fuller has become ineligible and the only .tdazed. Bob Barton pr·oved he wa1:0' A. Fox,'35, <bye'). other 0 candidate, Davison, is now a guard. Finkenzellar, a sophomore, 'no ·slouch and did his share of de-· R. Langer,'36, vs. E. Hull,'36. may be used if he is eligible. Times have changed since the hey dey of : fense work near the center of the B. H. Stewart,'37, vs. C. Van Wo1- the Ca1negie Foundation. Quoting from The Rensselaer Polytechnic: l!ine. There are numerous faults rner,'36. \Kaufman and Sturges have won athletic scholarships to ~emple where '•which will have to be conected be- V.'. Dean,'38, vs. H. Friedrnan,'37. they will train under the tutelage of Pop Warner, one time U. S. C. fore this art is developed to its R. VanNordstrand,'38, vs. W. Owen, mentor ~nd 01·iginator of the famed Warner system.\ Sturges played ·greatest efficiency, the main diffi- '37. right tackle and Kaufman, fuilback, on the Engi~eers' frosh eleven culties being that the tackier leaves c. Darrow,'37, vs. J. Nott,'38. which dropped a 13 to 7 thriller to the Garnet yearlmgs. his feet too soon and does too much H. Seider,'38, vs. C. Marshall,'37. diving. J. Moffett,'35, <bye). , At times dming the practice, the . cha)ging, offensively, was excellent Lowe1• Bracket In the third .period, for instance, !:<'. B. Hawiey,'38, !byel. the varsity had the ball on approxi- H. Summerhayes, '35, vs, N. R. Ste- mately the thir·ty-yard line. At the wart,'37. , signal, the forward wa11 of the first c_ Hockford,'37, vs. R. Symonds,'38. team seemed to climb completely D. Baxter,'37, vs. C. Wilberley,'38. over the yearlings, opened up a hole J. Orton,'37, vs. E. Carpenter,'38. . wide enough for the entire back- R. Hinman,'35, vs. C. Hathaway,'35. field to pass through, and Ernie H. Byrne,'38 vs. J. Hallenbech,'36. B1own side-stepped his way across F Clifton,'37, vs. W. Brandow,'36. the goal line. Instead o.f keeping J. Wold,'38, vs. R. Slobod,'35. up this good work, however, the B. A. Brown,'35, vs. R. MacManus, ·varsity seemed to talce time out for '36. 1est and then relaxed to an indif- w. Ladue,'38, vs. F. Thorne,'37. · ferent attitude. Defensively there w. I-Ielling,'37, vs. J. Brown,'37. · is a lot to be done, Coach Hatfield K. H. Schaefer,'38, vs. B. Salad,'37. · contributed during the interview, R. Snyder,'37, vs. R. Schultz,'35. also stating that the1e was a lot to G. Farrar,'38, vs. J. Lindabury,'35. :be driven across before the team J. Cohen,'36 (bye>. took the field against Wesleyan Saturday. Coach Hatf.ield refused to make any statement other than to say that \We are not so bad· off.\ Need Signal Drill This week the coaches will spend ---0<--- Alumnus Presents Libra1·y With W od1·ow Manuscl'ipt in correcting the outstanding faults· George H. Catlin of the class of . as shown in the test game Satur- '67 recently presented the library day. Several drills on signals will with the original manuscript of also be held to clear up the obvious sermons by Rev. Robert Wodrow, defects in this. department of the one of the ancestors of Woodrow game. Numerous plays were com- Wilson. pletely messed up through missing This volume is bound in brown the signals and through lack of leather in exce!fent state of preser- knowledge of what to do. These vation. The sermons are written points will be constantly dwelt on throughout the week, with several in a minute style of handwriting, · f extremely hard to read. The vol- scrimmage games thrown m or ume itself is small; when closed good measure. · b f' AI Stevenson, Ralph Semerad, measures only seven mches y tve Don Liffiton, Guy Griswold, and inches. :Ernie Brown were those who show- Rev. Robert Wodrow, a Presby- , ed up well during the time they terian minister in Eastwood, Scot- : were in the game Saturday. Bill land 1705.-1711 is equally well ·Potts was battering his way lmown for his volume entitl~d \The ·through the line most of the after- Sufferings of the Church of Scot- noon, while Charlie Krull, playing land,\ an original edition of which, , :at guard and tackle, showed up ex- with tattered bindings, bearing the tremely well in both positions. Jiggs name of John Witherspoon, who Rotunda is an iron man in the line signed the Declaration of Inde- and refused to be put out of ·any pendence, is now in the library of play. Princeton University. Campus Colloqialisms Of The Past .Contrasted With Present Day Terms By VEDDER M. GILBERT Fred Wyatt has an almost sure All-American practicing this fall on the var'Sity lacrosse sqiUid,. He is the former bosh star, Jack Sll1ith. Pla;ying in.;h<~me last spring he was high scorer for the year- lings. Aftey seeing him in action one day, Milt Enze1• breathlessl;y dasl1e.d i:nto the Oonc<~rdy office amd announced to whom it ma;y conce:t•n that his (}racticed eye had discovered a natural and it :was in tile books for this lad· to win national recognition. In his cautioWJ manner, Fred· Wyatt, himself a member of the select few, conobor- ated the prediction. Union has placed men on the All-American squad· fDI' the pas tfive yea.tS. Last year, Oaptain Ohauncey Foote and Bill Fraser were selected, NOTICES ENGINEER'S MEETING The first meeting· of the Ameli- can Society of Civil Eng·ineers will be heid this evening in the Engin- eering Building at seven-thirty p. m. Cider and doughnuts will be served. ---o--- OU'fiNG CLUB TRIP All members of the Outing Club who are planning to attend the ov- ernight camping trip this week- end, kindly communicate with Fred Wyatt prior to Thursday morning. The g1·oup will be limited to eight- een and will leave the Hill Saturday afternoon immediately following the Wesleyan game. Particulaz·s wili be published in Friday's issue of the Concordiensis. ·----Ol--- J'UBLICATIQNS BOARD MEETS Thet~ will be f!n important meet- ing of the Publications Board in the Ieception room of the admin- i-'>tlat!on building tomorrow after- noun at 4:30 o'clock. --· ----()--·--- GERMAN CLUB Those 'inte1·ested in the German club aru requested to meet at 8 p. m. in Silliman Hall to discuss plans for the year. TO FROSH Harvard Press Publishes Mosely's Work On Russia As the fourth of its series· of Harvard Historical Monographs the Harvard University Press has brought out a study of the Eastern Question by Dr. Philip E. Mosely, Instructor of History in the Divis- ion of Social Studies. It is entitled, \Russian Diplomacy and the Open- ing of the Eastern Question in 1838 and 1839\ and represents a part of the research which Dr. Mosely undertook in the Russian foreign archives in 1930-32. Through the unimpeded study of the original diplomatic correspondence, Dr. Mosely was able to throw new light on this much debated problem of diplomatic history. Dr. Mosely is also represented in the September issue of the \Journ- al of Modern History\ which con- tains his review of M. Sabry's new work on Egyptian history in the nineteenth century, \L'Empire Egyptien sous Ismail et !'ingerence Anglo-FrancaiJ>e\. During the summer Dr. Mosely lectured for six weeks at the Wes- tern University on \Modern Rus- sia,\ and the \Recent History of the Near Eastern and Balkan Pe- oples and Problems.\ These cour13es were prima1·i!y for graduate stu- dents. It looks like a brother combina- tion on the varsity this year. Bill Waldron reported for practice yes- terday afte1noon and has gladden- ed Hatfield's heart considerably, Outing Club Opens Season With Indian Ladder Trip By AL WEST The Outing Club began its pro- gram of activity for the year when, on Sunday, a group of thirteen Un- ion men went to Indian Ladder to · spend the day among the geological ,;pecimens of that region. Arriving Frosh Team Lacks Experience, Offense Poor Ball Carrying in Satur- day's Scl'immage Shows the Need for Heavy Drilling at the foot of the Incline which As a 1 esult of the fil st sc1 im- leads up to the Ladder, we left the mage of the yea1, Coach Nels truck and began a rapid but warm Nitchman ,of the Fleshman football ascent to the top. Some of the fel- squad, has come to the conclusion lows even complained that they that his 1934 eleven is going to be thought it was the intention of the good defensively but needs a great leader to force them, by the mad deal of polishing up when it comes pace he set, to drop out of the race to making touchdowns. The h·osh so that he might have more of the mentor, howeve1·, has eve1y 1eason steaks fot· himself. to believe that his team will be in Twenty minutes elapsed before shape :befme the first game. we reached the summit of the Fo1 the end positions, N!tchman promotory. We left our eats at the expects to use G1 euJ.ick and Ladue. Bungalow and began an explom• They :;hawed plenty of ability in tion of the 1·egion--confining our the fuss with the varsity on Satm- attention especially to the cliffs. day and should mal!e two excel!en·t wingmen. Chapin and B1 own were Lunch, as alway:;, was one of the at tackle and likewise did well. The high spots of the trip. Everyone guards we1 e Ladd and Day, two gorged himsel.f with steaks and well-built young men who are not sandwiches and then when it to ·be t1if!ed with when it comes to seemed that no one could possibly going thiough the line. The centex· eat enything more, the whole group used on Saturday was Little and he invaded the Bungalow and mnde is expected to be at this position a concerted attempt to buy all of when the opening whistle blows. the ice cream and soda which the pro;nietm·s h::..d on hand. After this, Patrie at Qulu1et· , it was something of a job to get The backfield, which need'S much the fellows to move from their re- ex:perience a'long defensive lines, is clining positions, but it was finally composed of Pattie at quarter.back, accomplished and the cliffs in the Fan and Podbielski at halfback, region of Haile's Cave were given and Jung at full. The ball carriers a thorough going over. There were axe fast and shifty and are better a few instances when it looked as on the offense than they are at though some of the party were stopping enemy attacks. were trapped on the cliffs, but al- Gloversville Hig·h School, the first ways the parties involved found a opponent lined up against the year- way out of the exciting situation. lings, will bring a strong aggrega- The trip ended without a single tion to Alexander Field for the first mishap. game Oct. 13. They officially open- ed their season Friday against The Club has plans for m'aking Mechanicville with a 12 to 2 win. some week-end camping trips this They have a :;trong passing attack fall and next spring. and axe heady, alert ball players. ---o The 1est of this wee·k Coach Nitchman will d1ill his men in the MOUNTEBANKS CAS'f PLAY axt of offense and will try to whip The following is a list of those who have been cast for \A Bold Stroke for a Wife,'' which will be presented by the Mountebanks on November 23 and 24 in the Mounte- banks Theater . The first rehearsal will take place in the theater tomorrow night, at 7:30. The entire cast will be present. The cast: Fainwell ... __ . Wallace T _ Foote, '36 George P. Haskell, '37, understudy Freeman .... John C. FitzGerald, '38 Sackbut. .. , .... Robert L. Royal, '38 Sir Philip Modelove ............. . . _., _ ......... s_ Ralph Cohen, '37 Tradelove ................. - ... - - . ... _.George W. Stroebel, Jr., '35 Robert. C. Denzler, '38, understudy Periwinkle - ........ _ ........... . . _ ....... Harvey P. Groesbeck, '35 Donald 0. Hotaling, '38, understudy Obadiah Prim ... Abram Smith, '35 Aminadab .. William W. Mulvey, '38 1st Stock Jobber ....... , ....... . . _ ............ Ore! Friedman, '35 2nd Stock Jobber - ... - ... -.-.- .. . _ .... _ ... _. _ .. Jerome Rosen, '35 Gabriel. ...... Hyman A. Enze1·, '38 Simon Pure , ................... . .......... Ferdin!l>nd Helm, Jr., '37 The female roles will be cast to- night. DeWitt's Lunch 118 JAY STREET Opposite New Ctiy Hall . .f them into shape for a ha1d game. He is ·gi eatly handicapped by the poor t·urnout, having but 17 men with which to work. This, plus the difficult new system which is to be installed this year, are the main obstacles which the c-oach has to overcome. ~························ : i • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • : Please : • • • • • • • • • • 5 Patronize E • • • • • • • • 5 the ! • • • • • • • • ! Advertisers! 5 • • • • • • • • • • • • . ----- . • • • • • • • • • • - . ••••••••••••••••••••••••• \String out!\ was the war-cry of my math. prof ha.uled xne up, I did ,the seniol'S when it was time for not know what 1t was all about, .)chapel and one of President Eli- although I had polled the night be- :phalet Nott Potter's talks. Upon fore. He suggested that I had the 'hearing the lusty cry the student ability to get a ten spot. I guess be 'body immediately took action. expects me to bootlick, Well, I Groups would separate to form a would rather dead flunlt than be Annual Freshman Smoker, spon- sored by the Y Cabinet is to be held in Silliman Hall, Friday at 7:30p.m. Guy G!·iswold is nursing a sore · arm but will probably be in full · :··::· uniform befo1~e _s_a_t_u_rd_a_y_._____ :\m:)::':':· B M 0 c .long queue which often reached a soup.\ · :!'rom the Old Chapel to the Old Translated into modern camp'!s Blue Gate. Slowly, at two second terms the above reads: I was up m intervals, members would leave the my room when a fresh carne in and line and file into chapel, This pro- told me that I had received a grand .cedure enabled those in the rear to bounce (been expelled) for not de- . :catch up, and hindered the begin- !ivering an oration last week and .·)ning of the exercises and gave Doc- for being caught downtown the ·.(tor Potter little or no time to ex- other night, after study hours, with ·pound his pet theories. a dame. On top of that my math · . . prof called upon me to recite. I .A!l the boys idled along m lme did not know what it was all about, they would conv?rse in language of although 1 crammed the night be- the age. Their lingo was much dif- fore. He suggested that I had the ferent from that of the students on ability to get a perfect grade( on a the campus today. ten percent basis). I guess he ex- D1iring \string-out\ a bit of con- peels me to apple-polish. Weli, I versatlon might go like this: \I was would rather sit nobly in my seat up in my ranche when a green!e when called upon than fawn and came in and told me that I had re- hang a1•ound my profs.\ ceived a G. B. for not howling last By the time the student had enil· week and for being caught down- ed his spiel he would be ready to town the other night after study listen to what might prove to be hours wUh a quail, On top of that his last chapel service. COME IN AND SEE US Headquarters for Men•s Wear of the Better Grade PENN-CRAFT HATS CORTLEY SHIRTS NICKLAS CLOTHES STETSON HATS MANHATTAN SHIRTS INTERWOVEN HOSE L. F. NICKLAS, INC. 138 JAY STREET /l;:;}\l:::WaETHER you're a Big·Man•on-the.Campus or ::j\l\:/i\\lf:'{:iibt~ 'you'll kn()w this. Stetwn. is right I Ws a ric~ . .· dark brown, the bdm snaps, and you can mould ,.,,. the crown th.e way yon want it. We unr~serv¢dly ,·.-···· :':recommend this hat, gentlemen, to· your critical attention. THE STR'rSON RANT A.M THE STE'l'SON. P:LAYBOY OTHER, STETSON'S. $6 AND UP 'John B. Stetson Company

I, i: I Four THE CONCORDIENS~~s. TUESDAY. SEPTEl\IBER 25, 1934 :; B s · Cllernisti'Y \ .B. S. in Physics Godshall Goes to Resigns; Dickinson Averages for the Be1·g· Cup fo1· the \ear 1933-34 Professor of Political Science Ac:cepts Teaching Position at Williamsport, Pa. Dt·. W. Leon Godshall, former head of our political science depart- ment, handed in his resignation this spring to become assistant to the president of Dickinson College, Wllliamsport, Pa., and head of the history and political science depart- ment there. Dr. Godshall had been a membe1· of the Union College faculty for 10 years, during which time his or- ganization of the political science department made it one of the most popular courses in the college. Besides being head of the Political Science department here he was directot· of the debating team. for a number of years. It was his pol- icy as director of the team to give as many members of the Philo- mathean Society as possible a chance to participate in contests rather than to enter the team to win. l\lodel League Advisor He was the faculty advisor for the delegations to the Model Lea- gue of Nations and also member of the Foreign Policy Association. During his leave of absence in 1931 and 1932 he tra veiled extensively in the Far East during the Sino-Jap- anese trouble. After his return to the States he lectured in sevet·al colleges, gaining considerable pro- minance as a writet· and lecturer on Asiatic problems. He was a native of Lansdale, Pa., and graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1919 with the B. S. degree. He t•eceived the M. A. degree a year later and the Ph. D. degree in 1923. He had been in- structot· in anthropology and polit- ical science al the University of Pennsylvania, Jecturet· in political science at St. John's University in Shanghai, asociate instructor at the University of Washington, and pto- fessor of political science at Pots- dam Normal school. ----0---- Taste in Music Important To Culture, Says Dr. Fox I Apprah;ing muBic as \at on<'P tlw I most p1 imitive and the most ~o-, phisticated .. of the arts. Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox spolH• ovPr \VGY Fr iduy' aftetnoon on the function and nu· portance of music as a componPnt of community !'Xi>IPnc-P. Hi~ tall< was broadcast a> onP of n daily \eri!'s in conn!'ction with thP Civic Music Assoeiation mPmbPr<hip I drivP held last week. ' \Taste in musie i\ an important: index in measul'ing the cuiturP of i the indrvidual and partieularly of. the community,\ Dr. !lox said., Music is a social art. enjoyed mo:lt fully by people in company, reflect- 1 ing each th!' pleasure of the othHs 1 and increasing it.\ As a result mu-1 sic has striking propriety as a com-~' munity enterprise. \Now communities vie in what , may be called musical reputation.'' : he added. \No finer thing can be. said of a town or a city than that ' it suppm ts good music handsome· I ly.\ Dr. Fox explained that musical appreciation is rising rapidly in America. and especially among rnen. who,;e interest and taste has here-to-fore lagged behind that of women. \The time seems approch- 1 ing when to confess himself indif- 1 ferent to the power of great music 1 will be to mark a man or woman: u~ a solt of spintual cripple.\ , ;=;;=.:::::;;:;;::.;;:;:::::::::::::.;:::::::=::::=::: 'i CHARLES' Fonnerly ED'S The Official Unioll College Barber for the past 24 years. Ask any u·pper classmeh, they know. 11 operators. Schenectady's greatest barber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY Schenectady's Popular Rendezvolli3 GOLD'S Restaurant - Tap Room Delicatessen :i::um:m::::::m:::::m::::::m:::::m::::::::m::mm;::m: II Campus Specials~~ ~~~All Wool Melton Sportlll mJ k t with zipper. m llla~:e eo:· Ill i!!Maroon ...••• $J.45m I ~ ~~~Corduroy Slacks $2 85ill mAll Colors . • m 11 THE HUB STORE ~~ !ii 137 State St. Ph. 4-7816i!i !lt:mm!nm:m;m:mmmmm:::mm:m;;m:mmml/1 No. !'Ius .1 fort No, of A<'tunl Av. 8.5 nwn 8.5 Cup Fmternlty M~>mhtws Avt>rage & Ovl'r & OvPl' Average 1. Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . 20 2. Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . 3R 3. Alpha Delta Phi .... 20 4. Alpha Mu Sigma•• 9 5. Pyramid Club ...... 14 6. Phi Sigma Deltfl . 14 7. Beta Theta Pi ...... 26 8. Delta Phi ........... 3-1 9. Alpha Phi Delta .... 25 10. Psi Upsilon ....... . 11. Phi Sigma Kappa .. 26 18 12. Delta Pi Nu•• 8 13. Theta Nu Epsilon 18 14. Phi Delta Theta .... 35 15. Kappa Sigma 12 16. Delta Chi . . . . . . . 16 17. Chi Psi ......... . 18. Phi Gamma D~lta 19. Theta Delta Chi 20. Key and Blade'* 24 23 17 21. Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . 20 22. Kappa Alpha 19 23. Lambda Chi Alpha .. 19 24. Sigma Phi .......... 13 8.130 R042 7.984 8.192 7.904 7.939 7.825 7.723 7.525 7.525 7.561 7 732 I oU3 7.·151 7 4~9 7.-128 7.-1115 7.430 7.269 7 463 7.358 7.326 7.121 7.208 10 9 5 ·l 3 ·l 3 1 2 2 2 2 u 1 1 2 0 1. .9 .5 .2 .'l .3 .·l .5 . 5 .4 .3 .1 .:! .2 -~ .2 .2 .1 .2 () .1 . 2 .0 9.130 8.942 8.484 8.392 8.304 8.239 8.225 8.223 8.025 7.925 7.861 7.832 7.803 7.651 7.629 7.623 7.605 7.530 7A69 7.463 7.458 7.426 7.321 7.~08 *\Less than 10 mernb<>ts. Not Pligibl<' 1<• comj>PtP flll llerg Cup. • All men's averagP . . . . . . . 7.652 Average for f1Uternitie~ r2·ll 7.6117 7 712 Average for nPutrals •• \It's toasted\ V Your tlmull protection-against -ogaln.st cough irrltatiMJ \ 125 Underclassmen List~d ·.On 1933-34 Dean's Ltst Carl R.' F~':ten, Elliott Fraser, Lee .· L. Davenport, Howard S. Angelo J. Marotta. Philip B. Moore, M~~;~nFreshmen-68. John K. Sloutmun, Jr. .---------- !Continued from Page 1l :;:_'lllllliii·· 1 - 111 · 11 ·· 111 ·- 11 Ji((ltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 111111111111111111111111_=_'.:. Hallstrom, Herman D. !<luge. ... B. s. in Physics = h = Hal old s. Howe. I= t e = Total Sophomores- 57. := • • • : CLA8S OF '37 : s s : Burns F.AB~fo~~~u;l~, A.rlington ! G. A z E T\ T e· .p R :E ·~ E. Baxter. Donald H. Baxter, Fay : . . = \ Broughton Begor, William K. Bo.yd, \:; S Jr.. Kenneth N. Brown, Irvmg : ~ E I ~~~~~'f.i~an~~l~ 1 Je;o~:t~ 1 ~oh~~: . 1 · ~ ~.~~ S S. Ralph Cohen. Franldyn F. Con- S : 5 verse, John C. Davis, William F. E . . 5 Doney, John B. Dowling, Jr., Fred :; · E Feldman Donald M. Fenton, = · 111111111111111111111~ J o; e ph A.. Field. Jr., Theodme W. ~i(i~ll;ll~ll;ll;ll;ll;l ;II ;II ;ll~ll;ll;ll;ll;ll;ll~ll~ll;ll;ll;ll;ll;ll;i ;II ;II ;II ;II;II;II;;JI;II;il;ll;ll;;l ;11;11;11;1 ;;;;;;;:;;;;;;; 9 . Fox, Monroe Froelich, Jr., Frank -------; B. Gatchell, Jr., Guy A. Graves, Jr., William A. Griesau, George P. Has- kell. Ferdinand Helm. Jr .. Wallace R. Hughes, Marvin Katz, Russell H. Knox, William P. Leonard, Duane LeTarte, John J. Marsella, James \V. McKenzie, Jr .. Roy C. Moon, Edgar L. Moulton, Jr., Oscar J. Muller, Chester Nessel, Richard E. Passenger, Frank D. Phillips. Jr.. Dominic R. Pitaro, George F. Reedy, Charles H. Reeves, James H. Riggs. George J. Riley, John Rooney, Jr., Casimir W. Ruszkow- ski. Richard C. Snyder, David S. Stark, Norman R. Stewart, Fran!\ , L. Thorl}e, Francis E. Townley, , Alan B. VanWert, Wilbur D. Wall· ing. B.S. In C. E. VadPn R. Butler. John F. Smith. B.S. in E. E. George W. Hobbs, Richard M. Kelsey. Richard C. Kennedy, How- , ard L. Knack. William J. Owens, :Jr., Robert E. PPCl\, Joseph L. 'Theisen. HENRY'S BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MAN·ICURING I 0 N. Y. C. Arcade SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY, INC . 147 JAY STREET Schenectady, New York • ow Refreshing ./ e Crop\ is good enough for Luckies. And that means-Luckies use only the clean center leaves- these are the mildest leaves-they ·~cost more-they taste better. I r r----- 1 Woolmar. I Halle1 I Stott; I P bJ'· ·I U lC t 1 Boa-rd ( I I ~,. ___ ,... ___ . ----- Vol. LVII Public Namef Mana~ Vedder M. Feature: Busines Hallen 8ucc:eeds As Fea Joseph A. ted managi cordiensis Board at tb year Wednt announced Dean Charl• of the boarc as news ed' sis when el• tion wer he tion of neVI for the curl Other eleo ing include as feature ensis; Johr elected man Garnet, and made busi1 ldol. The electi position on was occasic of Duane who was e of The Gar: Hallenbec Beta Theta years he h list. Last tennis squa dent of the b<!ck's hom· Woolma.J Woolman, Kappa Nu honor stud< tion at Uni holds the and has W• for the bes cla:ss and a May he wa the Hale < associate ec Woolman i The Mount• ices with t presented ' He is also Pllilomathe served as tha:t organi 1 man's hom• Stoll, a 1 elected to The Idol in the Dean's since he bE Gilbert, a Upsilon fu; of Amsterd third year Concordien: The aboll news edlto has made sary. Som editor will aging editc of the Jun' large shar• Inebri On S~ A dignlfi the class o:f with mone~ stole Profe . sold it to perhaps tht parents. E cured is of terest lies spent, and were broug Although that he wa1 failing. H town to lc are that \'1 the corner Streets, uno Charles W man's destl During o the night the hill. '1 humming t Them Gol<

Four Godshall Resigns; Goes to Dickinson Pl'ofessor of Political Science Accepts Teaching Position at Williamsport, Pa. Dt·. W. Leon Godshall, former head of our political 8Cience depart• ment, handed in his resignation thls spring to become assistant to the .president of Dickinson College, Williamsport, Pa., and head of the history and political science depart- ment there. Dr. Godshall had been a member of the Union College faculty for 10 years, during which time his m·- ganization of the polltical science department made it one of the most popular courses in the college. Besides being head of the Political Science department here he was director of the debating team. for a numbet· of years. It was his pol- icy as director of the team to give as many members of the Philo- mathean Society as possible a chance to participate in contests rather than to enter the team to win. Model League Advisor THE CONCORDIENSLS, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1934 B. s. in Chemistry I -B. S. in Physics Averages for the Berg Cup for the ) ear 1933-34 125 Underclassmen Listed On 1933-34 Dean's List Carl R. Faelten, E~l~ott Fras~r, . Lee. L. Davenport, Howard S. Angelo J. Marotta, Ph1llp B. Mome, Moncton. John K. Sloatman. Jr. Total Freshmen-68. Halls~;~~~i~~~~~~:~. ~~fueg;.) ;:!llllllllllilillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll I llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliE B. s. in Physies = h = Harold S. Howe. E t . e :l Total Sophomores- 57. 5 e • • E CLA8S OF '37 = = A. s. course -~=== ·G. A Z E J;- T E •.P R ·E ·s S .~==-== Bums F. Barford, Jr .. Arlington E. Baxter, Donald H. Baxter, Fay Broug-hton Begor, William K. Boyd, _ I Jr.. Kenneth N. Brown, lrvmg ~ _ I Browm;tein, Paul Campbell, Jr., ~ ~ :; Jameq A. Carroll, Jerome L. Co~en, - : S. Ralph Cohen, Franklyn F. Co~~ .· :l verse. John C. Davis, William _ S Doney, John B. Dowling. Jr .. Fred = :l Feldman, Donald M. Fenton, = II llllllllllll.:: Jo~eph A. Field, Jr .. Theodore W. i?illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll I \\'' Fox. Monroe Froelich, Jr., Frank · B. Gatchell, Jr., Guy A. Graves, Jr., William A. Griesau, George P. Has- kell, Ferdinand Helm, Jr., Wallace R. Hughes. Marvin Katz. Russell H. Knox, William P. Leonard, Duane LeTarte, John J. Marsella, James W. McKenzie, Jr., Roy C. Moon, Edgar L. Moulton, Jr .. Oscar J. Mulle1·, Chester Nessel, Richard E. Passenger. Frank D. Phillips, Jr .. Dominic R. Pitaro, George F. Reedy, Charles H. Reeves, James H. Riggs, George J. Riley, John Rooney, Jr., Casimir W. Ruszkow- ski, Richard C. Snyder, David S. Stark, Norman R. Stewart, Frank i L. Thor\Qe. Francis E. Townley, I Alan B. VanWert. Wilbur D. Wall- HENRY·s BARBER SHOP BARBERING and MANICURING 10 N.Y. C. Arcade SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING COMPANY. INC. He was the faculty advisor for the delegations to the Model Lea- gue of Nations and also membe1· of the Foreign Policy Association. During his leave of absence in 1931 B. S. in C. E. and 1932 he travelled extensively in Vaden R. Butler, John F. Smith. I ing. 147 JAY STREET the Far East during the Slno-Jap- B. S. in E. E. anese trouble. After his return to George W. Hobbs, Richard M. the States he lectured in several Kelsey, Richard C. Kennedy, How- Schenectady, New York colleges, gaining considerable pro- ard L. Knack, William J. Owens, minance as a writet· and lecturer Jr.. Robert E. Peck, Joseph L. on Asiatic problems. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T~h~ei~s:en~·--------------------_J~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ He was a native of Lansdale, Pa .. :: and graduated from the University • of Pennsylvania in 1919 with the B. S. degree. He received the M. A. degree a year later and the Ph. D. degree in 1923. He had been in- structor in anthropology and polit- ical science at the University of Pennsylvania, lecturer in political science at St. John's University in Shanghai, asociate instructor at the University of Washington, and pto- fessor of political science at Pots· dam Normal school. ----0------- Taste in Music Important To Culture, Says Dr. Fox, Appraising music us \at once thP I most primitive and thE' most so-; phtsticated\ of the arts, Dr Dixon· Ry11n Fox spolte over WGY Fliday · llfternoon on the function and im· portanet> of music us a componPnt of community existPnce. His tullt was broadcast a:; one of a daily series fn conneetion with the Civic Music Association membPrship I drlvP held last week. \Taste in music- Is an Important· indcK in measuring thP cultut·P of the individual and particularly of~ the community,\ Dr. Fox said. Music is a social art. enjoyed mo:;t fully by people in company. reflect-, lng each th<' pleasure of the others nnd increasing it.\ As a result mu-1 Hie has sttiking pr-opriety us a com-~' munity enterprise. \Now communities vie in what may be called musical reputation,\ 1 he added. \No flno:>r thing can be sold of a town or a city than that it suppot ts good musiC' handsomt>- I ly.\ Dr. Fox explained that musical I uppreeiution i;: rising rapidly in America. and especially among I mm. whose intereM nnd taste has here-to-fore lagged behind that of womt:>n. \Tht> time st>fo'ms npproeh- lng- when to eonfess himself indif- i ferent to the power of great music i will he to marlt a man or woman· as a sort of spiritual !'ripplt>.\ CHARLES' Formerly ED'S The Offlr.lal Union College Barber tor the pllSt 2~ yenrs. Ask anY upper clns!!mlln, they know. 11 operators. Schenectndy's greatest barber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY Schenectady's Popular Ren'dezvoUB GOLD'S Restaurant · Tap Room Delicatessen :ii!im::::::;;:m:m:m::n:m:mm:m:u:::i:mumm::::::: m m i!! Campus Specials!!! ~ I !!IAll Wool Melton Sport!!! !!l k m li!Jac ets, with zipper. m j!!Blue or $3 45!!! ij!Maroon . . . . . • ;;; I I !il:::orduroy Slacks $2 ssm !uAll Colors . . . . . • l!i I I Ill THE HUB STORE 11! ~ m i!l137 State St. Ph. 4-781611! • m :u\!::::::::::n:mm!iit::::::::::lrmm::::mmmu::::m::m • •• \It's toasted\ V YoNr throal protection-against Irritation -against cough .........ow Refreshi!tg / Crop\ is good enough for Luckies. And that means- Luckies use only the clean center leaves- these are the mildest leaves-they ·~ cost more-they taste better. ; . '· ........... -....... .. • IWoolma I Ha11E I Stoll I Publi I 1 Board .I ' /. ______ .. Halle11 Succeeds As Fe: Joseph A ted manag cordiensis Board at tl year Wedn announced Dean Chari of the boarj as news ed sis when el tion wer hE tion of nev for the cur: Other ele ing include as feature ensis; Joh1 elected ma11 Garnet, anc made busi: Idol. The elect' position on was occasic of Duane who was e of The Gar Hallenbec Beta Theta years he h list. Last tennis squa dent of the beck's hom· Woohna1 Woollnan, Kappa Nu honor studE tion at Uni holds the and has WI for the bes1 class and a May he wa the Hale C associate ed Woolman i: The Mounte ices with t presented v He is also Philomathe; served as tha:t orga:ni man's homE Stoll, a r elected to The Idol in t11e Dean's since he be Gilbert, a Upsilon fra of Amsterd: third year Concordiens The aboli news ed!toz has made sary. SomE editor will l aging edito of the Juni large share Inebrj On St A dignifiE the class of with money. stole Profe; sold it to ~ perhaps the parents. H1 cured is of terest lies spent, and 1 were brougi Although that he was failing. HE town to loj are that \TJ the corner Streets, tlQd Charles Wi man's desth During or the night ·t the hill. Tl humming ti:: Them Gold·

. ' r .-~------l. I Woolman, Gilbert, I I Hallenbeck, I I Stott; New '1· .1 Publications · I · . I 1 Board 0fftcees I· I . II I ~---~-----e~•-•4 ==========~=====.=->====~==:~~~~~~~~~~:=~~----\--~-'-'=~~ ----·- UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1934 Vol. LVIli., No. 4· r~:~~::~~:~-. t .J Tough Game : ·• Ag·ainst • t • ! Wesleyan J t Tomol'l'OW t . : L---------- ..... 1 PRICE FIVE CENTS ==~==-=--~=-~====-:r==-~=====~==r-r·-~- -=- ==:-~~==:=r=:==:==-·---- pu ·blicatt·on· Board Tickets Now ~n Sale For Historic Exhibition °?-ting Clu? J~urneys ~ 0 Union Gridders Op.,. en Here . Gunther Ramm ·Conce1·t D • . p d -t Pilot Knob m Second Tnp Names Woolma.n· · -- .neing· repare ·1or T A · tW 1 . . . Ed. t ' Tickets for the Gunther ~amin·.F ' I ' . ·t· . The Outing Club talting it.s sea· .. omorrow gains . . es eyan Managing 1 0 r concert to be presented on October, ox s naugura lOR ond tr·Lp of th~ year will leave for 4 may be obtained at the Student Lake George three quarters of an -----------------<•' Activities office or fro_m members· h Her the We:lleyan football \ redder M. Gilbert, '36, Elected of the Glee Club. Umon lltudents Venerable Old Gym Dorm t() our a will · be admitted free of charge. game tomorrow. Permission has Feature Edito1·; Stoll to Be :For all others the tickets will be Be Renovated to Accommo- been given to the club to camp at Business Manager of Idol priced at $1.00 for adults, and $.oo date the Varied Exhibits .Pilot Knob, where the :mmmer for students of other schools. · Gunther Ramin, organist at the ---- camps of the Y. M. C. A. and the Hallenbeck On Ga1·net Church of Saint Thomas in Leipzig, 140 Yeal'S of HistOI'Y uuy Scout.s are located. Germany, is one of the leading. Members of the outing club .organists of the day, and. holds the ---- will meet in the rear of South Col-. llucceeds to y ea.r Book Board most historical appointment in, Old Records, Files, Dialiies to lege for departUI·e. The palty is >:::~ Europe, for he is organist of the· limited to eighteen members, who As Featherstonaug·h Quits same church in which John Sebas- Portray Colleg·e Life will tt·avel in the college truck. tian Bach was organist two hun- dred years ago. As he is at present --- Those making the trip are urged Joseph A. Woolman, '35 was elec- but 36 years old, organists believe While Union College is formally to pwvide themselves with water- that he will be the world's out- receiving its twelfth president two proof sleeping facilities. Members ted managing editor of The Con- standing organist within a few weeks fi om today, students and should also bring swimming equip- cordiensis by the Publications . 11 ..., th ment. Aside f1om this, each one year~. frlends of the college WI •lave e can ·bring those per.:;onal thing.:; he Board at their first meeting of the ---0·--- opportunity to look back over neaily 140 years of its varie<l his- wishes. All food supplie,;; have been Y ear Wednesday afternoon, it was Gl Cl b t H d for· ee u 0 ave .tO!y in an exhibi·t now being ar- ollrange . announced yesterday afternoon by ranged in the Old Gym DOJm. Plans have .been made to climb Dea:n Charles F: F. Garis, president Large Membershi·p From hundHdS of old records, Buek Mountain. The club will re· of the board. Woolman was chosen files, and dial ies, material has turn by dark on Sunday. The Out- as news editor of The Concordien- · been gatr.ered which will graph- ing Club opened its Fall season ically porh ay the life of the college with a highly successful hip to sis when elections for that publica- Breaches Left by Graduation since the first petitions were sent Indian Ladder last week. lion wer held last April. The posi- Being Filled by Promising to the legislature 1equestin·g that a ____ 0 ___ _ tion of news editor was abolished c·harter be granted. Freshmen and Sophomores The exhibltion is in cha1ge of for the cunent year. b · Other elections held at the meet· James Brewster, college li rallan. 36 Daniel R. Weeks, of the Graduate ing include Vedder M. Gilbert, ' . ' About eighty men, both old and Council office, Is ananging the as feature editor of The Concord!- new, j)aiticipated in the Glee Club alumni exhibits, and Cadman His- ensis; John Hallenbeck, ' 36 • was try-outs hdd three times duting ·lop is compiling the catalogue of elected managing ·editor of The lSllB the last two weeks in Hanna Hall, the exhibition. Garnet, and Edmund Stoll, '3 5 , was under the supe1 vision of Dr. Elmer The Old Gym Dorm, which has made business manager of The A. Tidmarsh. Although the club not been uHd for two ~·ean, is he- idol. lost several fine voices last year ,ing renovated to accommodate the The election o:! Hallenbeck to his thwugh the gr actuation of its sen- 'exhibits. Glass-enclosed show cases position on the board of Th~ Gar~et iors, the breach has alleady been :are being in:otalled for the display was occasioned by the reSignatiOn filled by a number of promising :of letters and manuscripts. Next of Duane Featherstonaugh, '36, freshmen and sophommes. There :week, it is expected, the vener·able who was elected managing edit01 are now approximately sixty mem- old i:)uilding, which was first a gym· of The Garnet in May. bers, more than there have been at nasium and then a dormit<Jry, will Hallenbeclc is a member of the any one time in the last few years. be ready to become a museum. Beta Theta Pi fraternity. For two Stvelal fine programs, including Papers t11 Be Featured years he has been on the Dean's enccr cs, which have net been pre- A featm e of the exhi·bition will list. Last spring he was on th_e ,~ented by the club before, are plan- be the miginal papers and C()!tes- tennis squad and is now vice-presr- ned ~sa re~~ul~ of the enlargement ·pondence pertaining to the found- dent of the French Club. Hallen- of thrs ~ear -. hbr ary. . ing of the ccllege in 1795; petiti?ns bl.!ck's home is in Gloversville. Tl\.e fu~t 1mpor tant. unrlertakrn.g to the legi~lature for a charter-, lr::ots Woolman Is Honor Student that the sor.~~ter:: wrll Fponsor ~~ of ::~ub~cupli<..n~ and dunationti to Woolman, a member· of the '.In organ recrtal by the renowneo the infant colleoe, anu recut ds of h b Gunther Ram in, or ganiEt of St the fiHt cla~::es \'enrollld. Kappa Nu fraternity, as een an h · L · · G honor student since his matl'icula- . Thomas' chmc 111 e!pZlg, er· A HCtion will be devoted to tion at Union three years ago. He many. The outstanding :ouccess of .memotabllia of the 1in:t gleat ex· d h 1 h' Mar eel Dup1 e'E 1 ecital lrn:t } ea1 halO pans ion, when the college moved holds the Raymon sc 0 ars rp, induced the club to bring the fa·m- fxom lower· Union StreEt to the sHe and has won the VanOrden prize b 1 ous organist to Union. It !las . een of the present campus, then a wild· for the best esaay in his fres tman announced that students wrll be ad- eme~s at the out~ltilts of the town class and also tbe Coolt prize. Last mit ted upon pr e:oentation of their Dr-awings made by the g1eat May he was elected a member· of athletic tickets. F 1 ench architect, Ramee, of the the Hale Club and served as an associate editor of The 1935 Garnet. Club in Daily Assembly Union campus as he envisioned it, f b f will be on display. Woolman is business manage1· o At the 1equest of a num er a As a sort of side-show to the The Mountebanks and for his serv- the student body the glee club wlll main exhibit. a room in the not th ices with that organization was !:ing more often in daily assembly section of South College will be Pl ·esented \'l\th one of their keys th1\\ year. Last '-'ear the oJganiza. \ · - ' furnished to 1 ep1 esent a t;ypl<'al He ·1s also vice pres1'dent of the t1'on p1e~ented only two or three - - student's room of a hundred years : Philomathean society, after having programs. A ~eries of broadcasts ' served as secretary-treasurer of is being made up which will be agvo.el\atile Dr. EliphalEt Nott, th t · t' •ast year Wool announced later in the semester - a: organrza ron • · - president of the college for s!Jet\- ' h me ·s x·n T1·oy The club had planned to sing over ' , mans o 1 • .th1ee years and whose pezsonality T WGY several times last year, but Stoll, a 1·esident of i'oy, was ·the station requested the time for has become an intimate pazt of elected to the editorial board Of h · Union's ttadltion, will have a sep· b othu purpose£. Becau::e of t e m- The Idol in May. He has een on auguration of Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox alate section devoted to paiJers and the Dean's List at various times the! e will be no Fall Alumni Week· r ~lies associated with him. Of ))at- since he began to study at Union. end, during which time, In past ticula1· interest will be thE exant- Gilbert a member of the Psi yel!!~. the elY!! h!!~ •given 911 ., of Its pies of his inventions and patents, Upsilon fratemity and a resident concerts. together with his worlcing d!aw- of Amsterdam, Is beginning his Late in the fall a tour with con- ings. third year on the staff of The certs at Kingston, Albany and othe 1 Examples of over senntv years Concordiensis. near-by points is being planned. tContinued on Page 4) The abolition of the position of Ar•zangements me under way for news editor of The ConcorcUen!O;\S tliPs to preparato1y and normal has made a reorganization neces- schools. ---01--- Semerad Urges Student Interest in Campus Life Speakers' Bureau To Continue Work Group Organized Last Janu- ary to Be Limited to Eight Men; Entrants Limited The Student Speal;:ers' Bureau organized last year by the Employ- ment Bureau is to be continued announced Miss Frances Tt'avis who is in cha1ge of the Bur·eau. The group will be limited to eight men who are qualified to tallt on some hobby, 01 subject in which th~y are especially interested. Stu· dents intere:;ted shculd bring one letter cf 1 eccmmendaticn frcm a Union College profes:;or. together with a brief biogt aphical sketch to ~end or.ganlzations Interested Titles of lectures should also be furnished. Slides, specimens, plctUt·es, etc are helpful in cau~ing the lecture through althcugh they are not .necessa1y. The Bureau was organized last January and du1ing the second eemefter H engagements we1e !:'<· cured. Interested candidates should .leave their names and the requhed lnfor matlon with Miss Travis not later than Oct~;bm 4th. The bu· reau plan~ to circularize service clubs, church societies and civic groups in Schmec.tady and vicinity Public school as~emb!its have also been tai{en into conside!aUon this year in selecting speakers and sub- jects. Charles Howell Reeves, nephew of Admiral Joseph Mason :Reeves, Commander in Chief of the United States Fleet, has n talk on the Na- vy which d-eals wi~h n 4~¥~r!pUQ!l of vessels, explanation of tactics and anecdotes. Duane Featherstonhaugh of the junior class who discovered a ser- ies of large caverns near the vil- lage Qf ~nox, and who bas explored over 250 caves, covering a territotoy from Hudson Bay to Florida, wlll speak on \Underground Adventures from Hudson Bay to the Gulf of sar·y. Some of the work of news The musical clubs plan to make editor will !Je handled by the man- three touts during the second ::em- aging editor, while the members ester, one to New York, one to of the Junior Boa>rd will handle a Watertown, and a tour of the south- large share of the work. e1n part of the state. Inebriated Frosh Wears Out Shoes On Stone Wall of Professor's Home Ralph Semerad, President of the Mexico\. He is also prepared to Student Council, s.pol\e in daily ae- spealt on \Historical Spots of Scbe- sembly Wednesday morning ()n nectady County\. This summer Mr. Union's present system of student Featherstonaugh was appointed .government, eumming up Its hie- by the New York State Historical ·tory during the last three years, Society to conduct the General commenting on its two most i.mpor- North Sesqui-Centennial. tant agencies, the student body The list also includes Andrew ·meeting and the student council, Poggenpohl, born in Russia, who By V EDDER M. GILBERT and suggesting imptovements over is prepared to spealt on \Early His- last year. .tory of Russia.... The lecture in- A dignified frosh, a member of he reached the holll:e of Professor After advising the students to up- eludes the customs and education. the class of '81 found himself flush Wells he began to kwk. hold the worthy-but only the He also talks ori \The Religion of with money. P~rhaps it was he who It was the habit of upperclass- worthy- ttadltions of the c<Jl!ege, Russla\. Mr. Poggenpohl left Rus- stole Professor Foster's flute, and men in those days to demand en- Semerad said: \It seems to me. sia when he was a small child and . sold it to !J.n Albany Shylock. Or trance into a frosh's room by kick- however, that a far more iDJportant attended school in Constantlnopie perhaps the boy had written to his ing at the door. Why should not issue to you as mem:bers of the stu- and Paris. He was graduated from parents. How the money was pro- this dignified yearling be admitted dent body is the maintenance of an the Elmer Avenue and Nott Ter- cured is of no importance. The in- if he kicked hard enough? active interest in undergradtlate race High School. terest lies in bow the cash was The account in the February 1880 affairs. By this I mean somEthlng spent, and how the ultimate events Concordy reads; \ .. he kicked- other than attending games, join- i: were brought abotLt. not the door but the hard stone ing clubs or trying out for teams. Leads Garnet Forces CAPT. \CHIP\ DAIN Freshman Smoker To Be Held Tonight Nelson Nitchman to Speak at Annual Get Together Held In Silliman Hall Tonight at 7:30 in Silliman Hall, the annual l!'reshman Smelter will be held under the auspices of the Y Cabinet. NeLson Nitchman, freshman football coach and Union b:lumnu~, will be the speal•er, ac· C(Jtding tu an announcement made by .Bill Bwckwehl, '35, president of the Y, fullowmg a meeting of the cabinet Monday evening. \Ail freshmen are welcome at this smoker,\ said Brockwehl. \It 1s an info1·mal gettogether for the pur·pose of helping freshmen to get acquainted with other members ot their class and to orient themselves to campus life.\ \This year's smolter promises to be very successful. Nels Nitchman always gives a fine talk. Ted Whipple, student leader of the Glee Club, is going to lead the singing. We've got Alan Stewart and t:har- les Reid to play the violin and piano for us. And there'll be plenty oi cider a:nd doughnuts.\ Members of the Y Cabinet who are in charge of the affair include Ralph Semerad, Van Trumbull, and Gerard. Neuman, and Mr. Archilles and Professor Ligon, faculty advis- ors. The cabinet will meet Tues- day aftemoon at 12:50 in Silliman Hall to make plans for the coming year, and to elect a secretary to take the place of Rockwood J en- kins who resigned. ---0·--- Bennett Tall\S On Present Day Grade System Defects Discusing yester·day in daily as- sembly the grading systems used by educational institutions, Dr. Wil- liam W. Bennett, chairman of the field · of economiC!S, said that \a great defect of the American edu- cational system is due to the fact that many students are more inter- ested in grades than they are in acquiring knowledge.\ Revamped Ga1·net Line to Undergo Its First Test Against Ten Veterans By WILLIAM E. FERGI)SO.N The Union varsity football team will officially open its 1934 season tomorrow at 2:ao p, m. on Alexan- der Field against a veteran combin- ation from Wesleya·n. The Cardi- nals have lost but one man from their '33 aggregation and are ex- pected to walk off with a victory. Union, on the other hand, will put a somewhat inexperienced eleven on the field. Several of last year's veterans have been lost to the team and Coach G. Elliott Hat- field has had to find veplacements among the sophomores to answer his problem. Captain '\Chip\ Dain will be at his old post at left half- back. Ralph Semerad, Garnet tri- ple threat man, will direct the team play from the quarterback post. The rest of the backfield will be composed of sophomores who have proven that they are worthy of varsity play in pl'actice and several scrimmages. Ernie Brown, a hard hitting, shifty lad, will be at full- back and the right halfback posi- tion will be in charge of Don Liffiton. Gamet Line Changed There will be many new faces on the Garnet line. Jack Sloatman, a heavy, well-built man from the class of '37, is slated to start at left end, but injuries have kept him on the sidelines for several days and Van Waldron may get the call In Jack's place. Another sophomore will be at left tackle. Frank Gat- chell, star two hundred pound man from last year's yearling team, wlll have the responsibility of this posi- tion. Left guard will be in the care of Jadt Finch, a senior who has already shown his stuff in other Union football campaigns, Bob Bal'- ton will be at center and should have little difficulty in this position. Another veteran, \Jiggs\ Rotunda, although weighing but 155 pounds, wlll be at right guard. \Jiggs\ played in the backfield last year, but has capably filled in at guard and has taken one of the worries off the minds of Cantr!ll and Law- rence, the new Union line coaches. Two more of last year's eleven will complete the forward wall. Charlie Krull has been shifted from end to tackle and has proven his ability In the position on the right side of the line. Joe Milano, fullback on last year's squad has been returned to his old position at right end where he played before coming to college and as a member of the freshman team of '32. Defense Needs Polish The Union eleven needs mo!'e practice defensively. The line look- ed rather weak in the scrimmage with the Fl'Osh on Wednesday and needs to learn more fundamentals. The first year men were unable to present adequate offense and the strength of the baclrfield on de- fense is as yet an unknown quan- tity. Offensively, however, the varsity is the best it has been in years. <Continued on Page 3) German Club Makes Plans For Fh·st Formal Meeting A preliminary meeting of the German club· was held Tuesday evening in Silliman Hall to make preparations for the first formal gathering, which will take place two weeks from that date. A com- mittee was appointed to investigate the eligibility of proposed ... new members and .a. .s.econd gtoup was selected to confer with the club ad- visor, Kurt Von Forstmeyer, in pre- paring a program for the first reg- ular meeting. ~j wall. He thought he was at his Activity in tl1ese spheres ·has be- 4 Although an unusual frosh, in. own door. :He kicked hard until come well-established in student that he was wise, the chap had one he wore down his boots. 'Open •.. favor. I refer to an under~tanding CALENDAR \It seems to me to be about as reasonable to mclude tests in thE> final ma!'lts\ he continued, \as to count the touchdowns made by the varsity against the freshmen in practice games with the touch- downs made dur.ing the regular Saturday game. Tests should be considered as scrimmages or prac- tice games to assist in preparation for the examination, which, it pro- perly comprehensive, may deter- mine the degree of competence at- tained in the course.\ For the Information of the fresh- men present, the president explain- ed the policy of the club and gave a summary of last year's activities, stating the tentative program of the club for the coming semester, falling. He enjoyed going down- h' •• h 11 d ' u bl h'ch f t th. rc . . . up. e ye e , open, yo of the pro ems w 1 con ton · e town to local pubs, The chances ... hie , .. damned freshman.' \ student body at various t:i7nes dur· are that \The Hotel Germania,\ on Unfortunately the account ends ing the year, and to a militant the corner of Center and Liberty with the above passage. What the advocacy of desirable legislation. Streets, under the proprietorship of outcome was is uncertain. Perhaps \Last year certainly m.arked a Charles Wieneke, was the young Mr. Wells nonchalantly smoked a new high in the campaign to dis- man's destination. \Sweet Caporal,\ it is more likely pel the apathy which gJ. eets any During one .of the later hours of that he gave the worldly wise frosb .attempt to atouse student interest the night .th.e frosh wandered up some very personal attention. There in £arnpus matters. The events of the hill. The boy must have been is one thing certain, however, the the past year should have provided humming t)lat current success, \Oh lad needed new shoes, durable enough impetus to keep st11dent in- Them Golden Slippers,\ for when golden slippers. terest alive.\ Tomorrow Daily Assembly-Dean Thomas Ordway. Football-Union vs. Wesleyan, AleJCander Fieid, 2:30. Monday Daily Assembly-Student Body Meeting in the Old Chapel. Tuesday Dally Assembly-Rev. Mr. Mutch In reply to the students who want to be exempted from final exanlinations, if U:rey attain an av- erage of 85 or more, Dr. Bennett said, \good students should be given comprehensive exa.ininations if they want to try for scholastic honors, while others who may not not desire to try for such honors, might be exempted from taking ex- ams, if they are to be exempted.\ Alter adjournment, a pianist was drafted and hearty voices rendered \D>eutschland Ueber Alles\ with gusto. Several German student songs concluded the musical efforts of the club. Th'C officers for the year are; Richard Passenger, '37, president, William Kline, '36, vice-president and Walter Bose, '37, secretary- treasurer.

. '· ' ~ t 'l ·_:1 .. 1 !' I \ ·I .......... _........._ __ ......... l. I Woolman, Gilbert, I I Halle11beGk, I I Stol~, ~ew I I Pubheahons 1 I B d O\f' I· t oar. I ICers 1 t . I ·• ,, t I ~--------------~ Vol. LVIII., No. 4· UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1934 =========--=;'-=-=-=-=--=-=====~·-=c-=·-=-=-=-=--~-~ .. ---------~ ------ --- --------- • r -- ~~i~~~~::l Tough Game : tt Against I I · t ' Wesleyan : l Tomorrow I t : ) ______ ......,.,.,.....1 PRICE FIVE CENTS PN· ublicatwion B· 1 oard :a:~!:~:/'~~:~~ 8 ~~~!~.~ HBi~tor1P·c Exhibdibf·on ~~~i~in~~~nJs~~~1T~; Union Gridders Open Here ames · oo ma.n -- e1ng · repare or T . A · tW 1 M . . E--' di.to·r·' T-ickets for the Gunther Ramin Fox's In· augurati·on·· The Outing Club taking its sec- omorrow gains . es eyan anaglftg · concert to be p~esented on Octobe1· · . . and tlip of th<> year will leave for· 4 ~a!. be ob~amed at the Student · Lake George three quarters of an --<\' ActP/'ttres off1ce or from members d G L• y dde . M Gilbert '36 Elected 'of the Glee Club. Union student;; Venerable Old Gym Dorm to hour ul'ter the Wesleyan football Leads Garnet Forces Revampe arnet Ine to e 1 • . ' ' will be admitted free of cha1·ge. game tomonow. Permi:;sion has Undergo Its First Test Feature Editor,· Stoll to Be Fo1· all others the tickets will be' Be Uenovated to Accommo- h l been g-iven to t e club to camp a A · t rr V t Business Manager of Idol priced at $l.OO for adults, and $· 50 date the Varied Exhibits Pilot Knob, where the :mmmer gains . en e erans for students of other schools. Gunther Ramin, organist at the ---- camps of the Y. M. C. A. and the Church of Saint Thomas in Leipzig, Germany, is one of the leading ·organists of the day, and holds the most historical appointment in Europe, for he is organist of the same church in which John Sebas- tian Bach was organist two hun- Hallenbeck On Ga1·net Succeeds to Year Book Board As Featherstonaugh Quits dred years ago. As he is at present 140 Years of History Old Records, Files, Diaries to Portray College Life Joseph A. Woolman, '35 was elec- but 36 years old, organists believe While Union College is fmmally ted managing editor of The Con- that he will be the world's out- receiving its twelfth president two standing organist within a few weeks hom today, students and cordiensis by the Publications years. friends of the college will have the Board at their first meeting of the ---o--- oppo1tunity to look back over year Wednesday afternoon, it was 'Glee Club to Have ,nearly 140 year-s of its varied his- announced yesterday afternoon by tmy in an exhibit now being ar- ranged in the Old Gym Dorm. Dean Charles F. F. Garis, president Large Membership From hundreds of old records, of the board. Woolman was chosen files, and diaries, material has as news editor of The Concordien- been gathered which will graph- ically .porhay the life of the college sis when elections for that publica- Breaches Left by Graduation since the first petitions were sent tion wer held last April. The posi- · Being Filled by Promising to the legislature requesting that a tion of news editor was abolished charter be granted. for the current year. Freshmen and Sophomores The exhibition is in charge of Other elections heid at the meet- ___ James Brewster, college librarian. M G 'lb t '36 Daniel R. Weeks, of the Graduate ing include Vedder£ T.h 1 Coer' d', About eighty men, both old and Council office, is aiianging the as feature editor 0 e , 3 ~cor r- new, pa1ticipated in the Glee Club alumni exhibits, and Cadman His- ensis; John Hallenbteck,f Th ;;;;·~ tty-outs held three times during lop is compiling the catalogue of elected managing edi or 0 e u the last two weeks in Hanna Hall, the exhibition. Garnet, and Edmund Stoll, '3 5 , was under the supervision of Dr. E!me1 The Old Gym Dorm, which has made business manager of The A. Tidma1sh. Although the club not bE.'en used for two years, is be- Idol. lost several fine voices last year ing renovated to accommodate the Buy Scouts ar·e located. Members of the outing club will meet in the rear of South Col-· lege for· depar-t me. The party is limited to eighteen member·s, who will tr·avel in the college truck. Those making the trip are urged to p10vide themselves with water- proof sleeping facilities. Members should also bring swimming equip- ment. Aside fr·om this, each one can bring those per..,;onal things he wishes. All food supplie:; have been m ranged for. Plans have been made to climb Buck Mountain. The club wili re- turn by dark on Sunday. The Out- ing Club opened its Fall season with a highly successful trip to Indian Ladder last week. -----0---- Speakers' Bureau To Continue Work Group Organized Last Janu- ary to Be Limited to Eight Men; Entrants Limited The election of Hallenbeck to his th1ough the graduation of its sen- exhibits. Glas:::-enclcsed show cases position on the board of Th~ Gar~et .iors. the bleach has already been are being inEtalled for the display was occasioned by the resrgna:twn filled by a number of promising of lette1s and manuscripts. Next of Duane Featherstonaugh, '36, freshmen and sophomm es. There week, it is expected, the venerable The Student Speakers' Bureau who was elected managing editor 'are now approximately sixty mem\ old building, which was fi!st a gym- OJganized last year by the Employ- of The Garnet in May. ibers, more than there have been at nasium and then a dormitory, will ment Bureau is to ·be continued Hallenbeck is a member of the •any one time in the last few years. be I eady to become a museum. announced Miss Frances Travis Beta Theta Pi fraternity. For two Several tine programs, including . Papers to Be Featured who is in charge of the Bureau. years he has been on the Dean's ·encoies, which have not been pre- A featme of the exhibition will The group will be limited to eight Jist. Last spring he was on th.e ·sented by the club bef01e, are plan- be the Oliginal pape!S and corres- men who aie qualified to tallt on tennis squad and i>J now vice-pres1- ned as a result of the enlargement pondence pertaining to the found- some hobby, 01 subject in which dent of the French Club. Hallen- of this year's lib!a!y. ing of the ccllege in 1795 : petitions ,they are especially interested. Stu- beck's home is in Gloversville. The fhl\t important uncettalting to the legislature for a chatter, lists dents interested should bring one Woolman Is Honor Student that the songsters will E\ponsor is of subscJi'J,,tiCn~ and donations to lette1 of Iecommendation hom a Woolman, a member of the an organ recital by the renowned ·!he infant ·college, and records of -Union College p1ofessor, togethet h b .Gunther Ramin, o1ganist of St the fint classes emo!IEd. with a brief biographical sketch to Kappa Nu fraternity, as een an · rhomas' church in Leipzig, Ger- d send organizations interested. Titl£s honol student since his matricula- Th t t d' f A section will be devote to •of lectmes should also be furnished. tl ·an at Unt'on thr·ee years ago. He many. e ou s an mg success o memorabilia of the fit~t great ex- M I D ·e' Jec'tal Ja•t 'ear ha• 11 d ·Slides, specimens, pictures, etc. are holds the Raymond scholarship, atce upr s 1 - ' - pansion, when the co ege move d · induced the club to bring the fam- ftom lower Union Sheet to the site helpful in can~ing the lectme and has won the Van Or en pnze ous organr'~t to Unr'on. It has b~en 'ld :through althcugh they ar'e not t · h' f e hman - ~ of the present campus, then a wr - for the bes essay m rs r s ·announced that stttAent~ '\I'll be ad- ·necessary. C k · L t '- - \ . erne;;s at the outsltirts of the town class and also the 00 pnze. as m1'tted upo11 p1 e~entatr'on of ther'r th t Th B · d 1 t I t d b of - D1awings made by e grea .e meau was orgamze as May he was e ec e a mem er .athletic tickets. F h h't t R f th J·anuary and duling the \'econd the Hale Club and served as an t enc arc 1 ec . amee, o e - associ · ate editor of The 1935 Garnet. Club in Daily Assembly Union campus as he envisioned it, , seme:;tet 14 engagements were se- 'JJ be on d1'splay cmed. Interested candidates should W oolman is business manager of At the request of a number of wr · · 1 b 'JJ As a sort of side-show to the leave their names and the required The Mountebanks a:nd for hiS serv- the student body the glee c u Wl main exhibit, a room in the nOJth inf01mation with Mi:os Travis not ices with that organization was sing more oftm in daily aESembly ·later than Octcbet 4 th. The bu- pl ·esented with one of their keys. this year. Last year the organiza- section of South College will be fu!nl .~hed to rnpie•ent a tupr'cal reau plan~ to citculaiize service He l ·s also vice-president of the ·tion pi esen!ed only two or three - • - \ t d t ·~ o m of a hund1ed yearo clubs, church societies and civic Phr .lornathean soct'ety, after having pr·ograms. A seties of broadcasts s u en ~ 1 o · ·\ · groups in Schenectady and vicinity. served as secretary-treasurer of is being made up which will be ago. D E · h 1 N tt Public school as~emblies have also th n·t orga:nt'zation last year. Wool- announced later in the semester Versatile r. hp a et 0 • a · 1 b h d 1 d t · preEident of the college for sixty- been taken into consideJ-ation this man's home is in Troy. Theyc u a 1 Pt.-anne 1 °t srng o~ert , th! ee yea 1 s and whose personality :year in :;;electing speakeis and sub- stall ·, a x·esi'dent of Tt•oy, was WG seveta rmes as yea!, u . t' t t f J'ects. t t . t d th t' f has become an m rma e par· o elected to the edl 'to 1 ·r'al boa 1 ·d of the s a ron r eques e e rme m· . B f t h · . Union's badition, will have a sep- Charles Howell Reeves, nephew The Idol l 'n May. He has ·been on oth€1' pur·pose:o. ecause o e m- d t . f D D' R F a1 ate Eection devoted to papers an of Admiral Joseph Mason Reeves, tile Dean 's List at various times augui-a 100 0 r. Jxon yan ox · · t d 'th h' Of the!e will be no Fall Alumni Week- Iellcs assoCia e WI 1m. par- Commander in Chief of the United since he began to study at Union. end, during which time, in past tlcular interest will be the exam- States Fleet, has a talk on the Na- Gilbert a member of the Psi years, the club has given one of its pits of his inventions and .patents, 'vy which deals with a description Upsilon fraternity and a resident conceits. together with his working dr·aw- ·of ve:;sels, explanation of tactics of Amsterdam is beginning his Late in the fall a tour with con- ings. and anecdotes. third year on' the staff of The ce 1 ts at Kingston, Albany and othe1 Examples of over sevPnty .-ears Duane Featherstonhaugh of the Concordiensis. nea1-by points is ·being planned. rContinued on Page 4) junior class who discovered a ser- The abolition of the position of AI'range,ments are under way for ___ 0 ,___ ies of large caverns near the vii- news editor of The Concordiensis hips to piepata.tory and normal !age of Knox, and who has explored has made a 1·eorganization neces· schools. Semerad Urges Student over 250 caves, cove-ring a territory sary. Some of the work of news The mudcal clubs plan to make Interest in Campus Life from Hudson Bay to Florida, will editor will he handled by the man- three tours during the second sem- speak on \Underground Adventures aging editor, while the members ester, one to New Yotk, one to --- from Hudson Bay to the Gulf of of the Junior Boa:rd will handle a Watertown, and a tour of th~; south- . Ralph Semerad, President of the Mexico\. He is also prepared to J •. a::_t:_:·g~e::_s:h:a:r:_:e::_:o::f::_:t:h::e:...._:w::_:o:.:rk::·:_ ____ e_r_n_p:_a_r t_o_f_t_h_e_s_ta_t_e_. ______ Student Council, spoke in daily as- speak on \Historical Spots of Sche- - sembly Wednesday morning on nectady County\. This summer Mr. Inebriated Frosh Wears Out Shoes On Stone Wall of Professor's Home Union's present system of student Featherstonaugh was appointed government, summing up its his- by the New York State Historical tory during the last th1ee years, Society to conduct the General ·commenting on its two most impo1- North Sesqui-Centennial. tant agencies, the student body The list also includes Andrew meeting and the student council, Poggenpohl, born in Russia, who and suggesting improvements over ,is prepared to speak on \Early His- By VEDDER M. GILBER'I' last year. tory of Russia\. The lecture in- A dignified frosh, a member of he reached the home of Professor After advising the students to up- eludes the customs and education. the class of '81, found himself flush Wells he began to kick. hold the worthy-but only the He also tallts ori \The Religion of with money. Perhaps it was he who It was the habit of upperclass- worthy- !Iaditions of the college, Russia\. Mr. Poggenpohl left Rus- stole Professor Foster's flute, and men in those days to demand en- Seme1ad said: \It seems to me. sia when he was a small child and sold it to an Albany Shylock. Or trance into a frosh's room by kick- however, that a far more important attended school in Constantinople perhaps the boy had written to his ing at the door. Why should not issue to you as members of the stu- and Paris. He was graduated from parents. How the money was pro- this dignified yearling be admitted dent body is the maintenance of an the Elmer Avenue and Nott Ter- cured is of no importance. The in- if he kicked hard enough? active interest in undergraduate race High School. terest lies in how the cash was· The account in the February 1880 affairs. By this I mean something spent, and 1Jow the ultimate events Concordy x·eads: \ ... he kicked- O>ther than attending games, join- were brought about. not the door but the hard stone ing clubs or trying out for teams. wall. He thought he was at his Activity in these spheres has be- Although an unusual frosh, in own door. He kicked hard until come well-established in student that he was wise, the chap had one he wore down his boots. 'Open ... favor. I refer to an understanding failing. He enjoyed going down- hie ... up!' he yelled, 'open, you of the problems which confront the town to local pubs. The chances ..• hie ... damned freshman.' '' studen-t body at various times dUr- are that \The Hotei Germania,\ on Unfortunately the accoupt ends ing the year, and to a mili-tant the corner of Center and Liberty with the above passage. What the advocacy of desirable legislation. Streets, Ul}der ·the proprietorship of outcome was is uncertain. Perhaps \Last year certainly marked a Charles Wieneke, was the young Mr. Wells nonchalantly smoked a new high In the campaign to dis-· man's destination. \Sweet Caporal,\ it is more likely pel the- apathy which greets any During one of the later hours of that he gave the worldly wise !rash attempt to arouse student interest the night the frosh wandered up some very personal attention. There- in campus matters. The events of the hill. The boy must have been Is one thing certain, however, the the' past year should have provided humming that current success, \Oh la!i needed new shoes, durable enough impetus to keep student in- Them Golden Slippers,\ for when golden slippers. terest alive,\ CALENDAR Tomorrow Daily Assembly-Dean Thomas Ordway. Football-Union vs. Wesleyan, Alexander Field, 2:30. Monday Daily Assembly-Student Body Meeting in the Old Cha:pel. Tuesday Daily Assembly-Rev. Mr. Mutch CAPT. \CHIP\ DAIN Freshman Smoker To Be Held Tonight Nelson Nitchman to Speak at Annual Get Together Held In Silliman Hall Tonight at 7:30 in Silliman Hall, the annual lfreshman Smoker will be held under the auspices of the Y Cabinet. Nelson Nitchman, treshman football coach and Union alumnus, will be the speaker, ac- cui ding to an announcement made by Bill B!'Ockwehl, '35, president at the Y, followmg a meeting of the cabinet Monday evening. \All freshmen are welcome at this smoker,\ said Brockwehl. \It is an informal gettogether for the purpose of helping freshmen to get acquainted with other members ot their class and to orient themselves to ca:mpus life.\ \This year's smoker promises to be very successful. Nels Nitchman alway.: gives a fine talk. Ted Whipple, student leader of the Glee Club, is going to lead the singing. w·e·ve got Alan Stewart and Char- lell Reid to play the violin and piano for us. And there'll be plenty ol' cide1· and doughnuts.\ Members of the Y Cabinet who are in charge of the affair include Ralph Semerad, Van T1 umbull, and Gerard Neuman, and Mr. Archilles and Professor Ligon, faculty advis- ot·s. 'l'he cabinet will meet 'tues- day afternoon at 12:50 in Silliman Hall to make plans for the coming year, and to elect a secretary to ta:ke the place of Rockwood Jen- kins who resigned. ---01--- Bennett Tall\.S On Present Day Grade System Defects Discusing yesterday In daily as- sembly the grading systems used by educational institutions, Dr. Wil- liam W. Bennett, chairman of the field · of economics, said that \a great defect of the American edu- cational system is due to the fact that many students are more Inter- ested in grades than they are in acquiring knowledge.\ \It seems to me to be about as reasonable to mclude tests in the final marks\ he continued, \as to count the touchdowns made by the varsity against the freshmen in practice games with the toucQ.- downs made during the regular Saturday game. Tests should be considered as scrimmages or prac- tice games to assist in prepamtion for the examination, which, if pro- perly comprehensive, may deter- PJ.ine the degree of competence at- tained in the course.\ In reply to the students who want to l:le exempted from final examinations, if they attain .an av- erage of 85 or m6re, Dr, Bennett said, \good students ~hould be given comprehensive examinations if they want to try for scholastic honors, while others who may not. not desire to try for such honors, might be exempted from taking ex- ams, if they are to be exempted.\ By WILLIAM E. FERGUSON 'fhe Union varsity football team will officially open its 1934 season tomorrow at 2:30 p. m. on Alexan- der Field against a veteran combin- ation from Wesleyan. The Cardi- nals have lost but one man from their '33 aggregation and are ex- pected to walk off with a victory. Union, on the other hand, will put a somewhat inexperienced eleven on the field. Several of last year's veterans have been lost to the team and Coach G. Elliott Hat- lield has had to find replacements among the sophomores to answer his problem. Captain \Chip\ Dain will be at his old post at left half- back. Ralph Semerad, Garnet tri- ple threat man, will direct the team play from the quarterback post. The rest of the backfield will be composed of sophomores who have proven that they are worthy of varsity play in practice and several scrimmages. Ernie Brown, a hard hitting, shifty lad, will be at full- back and the right halfback posi- tion will be in charge of Don Liffiton. Garnet Line Changed There will be many new faces on the Garnet line. Jack Sloatman, a heavy, well-built man from the class of '37, is slated to start at left end, but injuries have kept him on the sidelines for several days and Van Waldron may get the call in Jack's place. Another sophomore will be at left tackle. Frank Gat- chell, star two hundred pound man from last year's yearling team, will have the responsibllity of this posi- tion. Left guard will be in the care of Jack Finch, a senior who has already shown his stuff in other Union football campaigns. Bob Bar- ton will be at center and should have little difficulty in tlus position. Another veteran, \Jiggs\ Rotunda, although weighing but 155 pounds, will be at right guard. \Jiggs\ played in the backfield last year, but has capably filled in at guard and has taken one of the worries off the minds of Cantrill and Law- rence, the new Union line coaches. Two more of last year's eleven will complete the forward wall. Charlie KrUll has been shifted from end to tackle and has proven his ability in the position on the right side of the line. Joe Milano, fullback on last year's squad has been returned to his old position at right end where he played before coming to college and as a member of the freshman team of '32. Defense Needs Polish The Union eleven needs more practice defensively. The line look- ed rather weak in the scrimmage with the Frosh on Wednesday and needs to learn more fundamentals. The first year men were unable to present adequate offense and the strength of the backfield on de- fense is as yet an unknown quan- tity. Offensively, however, the varsity Is the best it has been in years. <Continued on Page 3) German Club Makes Plans For First Formal Meeting A preliminary meeting of the German club · was held Tuesday evening in Silliman Hall to make preparations for the first formal gathering, which wm take place two weeks from that date. A com- mittee was appointed to investigate the eligibility of proposed .. new members and fl, .~econd · group was selected to confer with the club ad- visor, Kurt Voh Forstmeyer, in pre- paring a program for the first reg- ular meeting. For the information of the fresh- men present, the president explain- ed the policy of the club and gave a summary of last year's activities, stating the tentative program of the club for the coming semester. After adjournment, a pianist was d,rafted and hearty voices rendered \Deutschland Ueber Alles\ with gusto. Several German student songs concluded the musical efforts of the club. The officers for the year are: Richard Passenger, '37, president, William Kline, '36, vice-president and Walter Bose, '37, secretary- treasurer.

Two TIIE C'ONC'OH DIENSl~ Ft-nn ;\ \' SEPTEl\IBEn 28, 193-1 @nnr.or ~irnsis .. A C'tJtum p,.rJln /,nrn/6 A :tJtui'. I'OUND~D 1871 MEM!9E!R ~sodat~d @'o\l¢giate 'Jr¢s:& ..;;15134 (LU;;;i~~u:IDit)l'$! 15135 ,_ M.lDlSC»> WISCONSIN So>lt aut\ t-:xl'!usive ;\;tllional Atlvertlsing Rept <>ti<\ll· tatiVtl. National Adv~rtising Servil'.e, Inc., 11 \Vest Uud t>t., ;:\;, Y. C., 40U ;\;u. :\[ic-higan A\·e .. Chicago. Illitmi,, ;.:.:.:.;.:..:::.::.:.._ ____________ ~-- .. The official newspaper of the students or Union College Published Tuesdays and Fddays throughout the college year. except during Christmas and spring recesst'.s Publication Office. The Gazette Press. 334 State St., Schenectady, N Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second ClaM Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year·: delivered anywhere In th~> United States Editorial Rooms, ~lill!man Hall. Union Colle!'~ Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Clemens F. Hathaway ....... , .. Editor-in-Chief t'hi Psi Llltlge-iR6&27 Joseph A. Woolman .... , ..... Managing Editor Ka.pt'a Xu 1Ioul\t--t-73al William H. Fitzgerald ....... Business Manager llt-lta Cpsilon Housl...._-1-7~1~~ Milton A. Berger .......... , ...... Sports Editor Kappa ::-;u nuuH,__l·7331 Thornton W. Whipple ..... Circulation Manager ______ t'hi Psi Ludgl:'--l-6:>:!7 ____ _ Junior Board Vedder M. Gilbert .............. Featme Editm ASSOCIATE EDITORS John D. Anderson Robert C. North Albert H. Stevenson VanVechten Trumbull M. Bedell S. R. Cohen R. Doolittle F. Feldman Sophomore Board Assistant Editors W. Ferguson F. Gage C. Ganlson W. H01·stmann R Passenge1 R. Snydet N. Stewart FOOD FOR THOUGHT The remmks made by P1·ofessor William \V. !Jennett in assembly yesterday are worthy of deep thoug-ht. Coming on top of the resolution made by the student body on :\'londay it seems that the faculty will soon httve to make some definite stand on the question of exemptions fot· final examina- tions. Professor Bennett's sngg·estion that the mediocte mthe1· than the honor students should be exempt from final examinations doesn't appeal to us. It is difficult to con- ceive of students struggling hard so that they will have to take final examinations. However we do like the idea of compre- hensive examinations. For several years the college has been drifting toward its goal of comprehensive examinations for all students. This year marks the first full year in which such a goal will have been realized in 1·egard to a majority of the students. Too long- have college students been able to parrot back the remarks of their instructors. Their grades have been based on their ability at repetition more than their ability at seeldng knowledge :n most courses. As Professor Bennett said, how can any instructor determine whether one man is one percent better or one percent poore1· than another man in any given com·se '? Granted that numerical grades are symbols; but, they are :-;~·mbol::; of what'? The Concordiensis is looking fonvard to the report of the joint l:ommittee which was appointed last spring Issue Editor .......... Albert II. Stevenson tu illvestigate the marking· systems. Asst. Issue Editor ....... John D. And!:'rson Ftlday, Septt'mber 28, 1934 .-\ithuugh the report may or may not be revolutionary, it will at least be the result of an intensive study of the best systems em- lbT=hou=gh;,=~ w=:=,;=:,~,=~=~ia=T~=e f=, ~=dve=~,~=,~=,~=~,g~ht =acc~oste~J!b 1 =PH=ILI=~=~=:c=~E=RE=\R =t days come and go so qu1ckly. Some- jobless transient with the usu~l times we rub our eyes and wonder dirty shil t and need-a-shave look .. '!'HE ORGAN If life is as real and earnest as With rare imagination, they ·Con-. The earliest records o£ the organ Th t e cocted a story which completely· Longfellow paints it. e ree.s a' took in the unsuspecting hobo. He itself do not extend beyond the sec- beginning to shower gold and so:.;- . let leaves on the walks. Johnme was to meet them at midnight, m ond century B. C., however·, the eva- March, faculty mentor, ><uys he can front of the armory, and proceed Jution of the instrument from the CI ·o\s a field and spot four•leaf with them to a concentration camp· b 1 t \ . wher·e men wel·e being stationed by Pan-pipe goes uc c •O a very r·e- clovers. The north side of the 11- 1 . H 1 .1 t! 1 e government after enlisting lor n~ote period. In some of the ear wr brat y is soot-covered. ow 1 t'\ a rarm the college must have appeal- the Spanish-American war. The orga1~s. the keys are said to requJ.re ed a centtil'Y ago. Why is coca- JOble::;:; gent was a little doubtful,. blows of the fist to put tltem down. C ola losing its popularity along about the .Spanish-American war d th 1 busl ·nes\. Gr·oener won the evening They possesse many o er c larac- with Old-Golds? The Morro Castle ~ debacle has been retired to the with a brilliant argument: \It':o a teristics that would be strange to back pages ·in favor of snatcher measure the government is taking· us today, but as years went by, lm- Hauptmann. I'd hate to meet him to check unemployment.\ The tran- provements were made until a!ll the in a dark alley. How smart Ed sient was like dough in the hands h . l' 't of a baker. major difficulties were conected. Carroll looks in a w 1te men su1 . What goes on behind the scenes at • * * The makeup of the ,organ, is very glee-club rehearsal·~ Oh to possess 1 · h complex. The stop, which is one O·f f • 1 The apparent error w llC ap-· the essentials of the organ's com- that booming voice o prexy s · peared in this column last week Crickets are so much louder during was nothing more than a little position, is a series of pipes produc- Lhe nrght. The rah-1ah spirit has dodge used by clever columnists to ing notes of similar quality but dif- depar ted forever. College men are find out if anyone bothers to read fering in pitch. The pipes of these no longer concerned about any- the stuff they pour out. The error different stops differ, musically thing except their own welfare. was intentional. It is exceedingly speaking, in their quality of tone as Dues anyone ever stop to read the gratifying to discover that at least well as in their pitch. Physically, tablet on the 1·ear side of the Payne a fellow artist is intm·e:;ted in the they differ in shape and general gate·~ Our vote for the be:;t-cast work of his colleagues. Readers, as arrangement. The sounding of cinema goes to \One More River.\ well as writers, must be kept on these pipes is determined by sev- their toes. era! rows of keys called manuals • • • * Trivia: Yacht races are boring The symbol, F. C. should not be and tedious. Sentimental publicity .a myster~ to a modern, American about the .cleaning of \'Vnshington . collegian. Fair charmer, boys, fair which are played with the hands, and by pedals which are played with the feet. monument. Speeches in general. charmer! Medals which are awarded and JEREMY. The organ probably presents more difficulties than any other in- $trument in regard to sound mas- tery. One may practise for years then stowed away by the recipient in a dark cornet· of the china- closet. The whole fuss about the NRA. * • • An obsolescent type is the would- be poet who studiously grows his hair long, weat:; meticulons white collars and flowing ties, and strolls dreamily around the campus, peet·- mg into the sky in search of in- spimtion. College men are becom- ing less creative. They crave, in- stead, the realism of action, espe- cially physical. It is this tendency which has raised the sportin~ life to ib present high level in the minds of college men, and has drawn them shut ply away from the more classical and literaty pur- suits. * * • The best :oto<y of the weelt come:; ;;::=============~ :before he acquires sldll and effi- SECRET SERVICE BUREAU ciency. One reason for this is the ·complexity of the instrument. The :organist, when playing, has to think orchestration. He has to think what stops and what sounds J.!.==============~l ; are going to harmonize together. In undertaking this column we, Not only does he have to figure out the authors, have no little misgiv- stop combinations, but he has t.o ings in dubbing our brain-child, Jest :read music for his right and left tt become confused with that \com- 'hands. Here, with aid of the stops, bination in restraint of trade\ is where most of the beautiful known as the Student Service Bu- music is contained. Lastly, the reau. However as that trite old organist has to play with his feet d.dage goes, \Nothing ventured, the base of a piece on the pedals nothing gained.\' and manipulate the crescendo Our purpose, quite necessaty to a ,pedals. Consequently, when one has new-born column, shall be to __ ? mastered these details and can use Your guess is as good as ours. them all simultaneously, he is well on his way to effective organ play- Bert Morrison, that wily cockney, · hurled a bolt from the azure when mg. he made his startling resolution at Student Body Meeting. The idea is fine, Bert, but how about ---o--- Middlesex Notes the execution? Rumor hath it that the Kaps are Despite vociferous pressagentry, plo~·ed in this country. \\'e have spoken of from the porch of the Psi u. house. Ed Gt·oener. and cohorts, searching WILL THERE BE A SOIREE? ,JlltWOI'11 customs i11 the past but nothing is No one in colleg·e now has ever attended m:1re outworn than a marking system which a sophomore soiree as a student. In fact. the :nalJ:<'.' unc!el'el'\'ing students to g-nin honOl' last one held here was in 1930. Since then grndcs. there have been constant temporary cancel- lations of this event, but never has any class o1· Student Council taken any action to dt>- termine the permanent status of soiree. STUDENT BODY AFFAIRS The time is drawing nem· for senior class \\\hen :.Ir. Italph Sememd, president of the elections and for an election of a junior pt·om stur!Pnt body, spoke in assembly on vVednes- committee. Before that time, would it not day, he touched upon some topics which are of vital interest to the welfare of student be wise for either the student body or the organization. Student Council to take soma definite action The future of student body meetings lies on the matter of a soiree? The personnel of .in the hands of the students themselves. As the student body has changed completel;y usual, a large turnout was on hand l\Ionday since the last social event staged by the soph- at the first meeting- of the year. The en- omore class. thusiasm was great at the time of l\h·. :\Ior- We all know that soirees have been held rison's resolution. There are, however, sev- here in the past. Why not now? Fm· three era! things which the students themselves can do without the necessity of resolutions. l'or instance, it was suggested in an earlier Issue of this newspaper that an interfrater- years now the excuse for not having a soiree in December has been the depression. It may be a bit of irony to say that the effects nity council could be formed for the mutual of the depression are gone, but it would not benefit of the fraternities which have chap- be at all amiss to state that times are g-etting ,ers here. That is within the jurisdiction of better. the students themselves. The first Student EASY ON THE EYES 000 It is well that the campus should be all dolled up for the in- auguration, but a couple of outside efforts seem to us to be misdirected, namely: the levelling of six fine trees opposite the President's house; and the 1 e-striping in yel- low paint of the ugliest (just be- cause it tries so hard not to bel gas tank east of the Rockies. 000 The phrase \union labor\ takes on new meaning after one has ob- served some of the Union labor over in the college woods? 000 Unles:o all the critics are wrong, \Of Human Bondage\ is a film to be seen. But why stop there? Read the boolt. and then go on to Samuel Butler's \The Way of All Flesh,\ to which it owes much. forming a Married Man's Club. a fabulous budget, and \famous\ ... Can two live as cheaply as one? stars, the Warner m u sic a 1 , The Chipsi's think that the Kaps ''Dames\ is a failure. The dancing, are making a truly noble experi- if it may be called such, is very ment, but, as yet, only one Cassan- po01·, the story tr·lte, and Blondell's ova has been found .... You catch? singing merely blah. Now, a few Where are the Sigs keeping their weeks after its run, the picture is canaries? We understand that one forgotten and deservedly so. of them is very good at \Yankee Doodle.\ • * * The report is that the Psi U's Last week in New York another are hi~ing their breakables, be- moving picture was hailed by the cause rather George is expected critics as an epic failure. This is soon. the Von Sternberg directed, \The That Phi Delt cutup is still going .·Scarlet Empress,\ which is reputed strong. . . . How are your \Ro- t h mance Muscles,\ \X\. o ave cost $900,000. However, the In a more serious vein we are 'Times' in an excellent criticism glad to note that the Big Nig is points out that while this picture bacl{ on the gridiron. is bad, it is not unintelligently bad. The difference lies in the fact that Es, Es, & Bee. Von Sternberg is a most sincere r;==============\:'' director and is one of the few men DRAMA AND THE THEATER By FRANCIS E. TOWNELY who contributes to the artistic de- velopment of picture technique. \Dames\ on the other hand is pure 000 Nobody agrees with Bertrand Russell all the time, not even Ber- trand Russell himself. His new book \Freedom Versus O!'ganiza- . m,ediocrity . unenlightened by the slightest hmt of the stylization which in its well meant exces~ spoiled \The Scarlet Empress.\ s·o much for the movies. * * tion: 1814-1914\ appears to John The Mountebanks have delved Chamberlain of the Times, how- far into the past to find the play ever, as \in many respects the most which they are to give as their fall important book of the year.\ Worth production. However, their choice investigating, a Glaim as wide as should prove to be a happy one as The: Psi U seat around the flag, that? the play lends itself easily to ama- P.ole ts. very popular. Any evening tuer production. fmds It occupied by murmuring 000 Even to appear to defend any- \A Bold Stroke for a Wife\ is couples. Indeed one soft twilight thing connectt'd with the Lind- not, as one would at first suspect I distinctly couU:ted two couples a ~ergh kidnaping is unthinkable. concerned with any bold strok~ fami~y of five, .and a baby of inde- ut there was no excuse whatever ~hich a wife may undertalte, but termmate ownership. for the newsreel shown in Schenec- mstead concerns the valiant and * * r. find tuc~ed in my doot· a card which promises. for a small stip- end, that an \eminent psychic\ will tell me \everything.\ I turn the ~ar~ ~ver and am enjoined to Artse. t~row off the sehackles!\ A new kmd of breakfast food no tady last week calling loudly and ultimately successful atempts made repeatedly fat· \death to all kid- b:y one Colonel Fainwell to rescue naper><\ and instant depo1 tation for h1s Jove together with a fortune of \all aliens likP Hauptmann.\ The thirty thousand pounds from the authorities allow such incendiary ~lutches of four villainous guard- appeals to mob violence, and then ~ans. Such a plot although simple wonder why they have lynching Is possessive of fine development parties on their hands? which Mrs. Centl!vre has done to ~ 000 Professor MacKinnon of Bryn good extent. Surel'·, with the J·unior IJrom scheduled for Council meeting· passed by \Vithout any ac- ·Mawr College recently reported to The play follows the plan gen- .J the American Psychological Asso- erally accorded to Shakespeare doubt. ' * * 1 tion on the matter. The least that could be ciation concerning a test of the five . acts divided into scenes. IU: Iv ay each year there would be sufficient time honor system in examinations. He relatiOn to the plot the main climax The first inkling of this year's rash .of. petitions has appeared. vyhy IS It that anyone will always Sign almost any petition that hap- pens to be current? In fact the value of petitions has been so' seri- ous~y weakened recently by their ill ad';tse.d us~, .that to circulate one is to 1 ~Vlte rrdrcule and to sign one is to display a lack of discrimination. done is to appoint a committee to consult gave 93 students ( 67 men and 26 comes. in the last act, preceded in for students to recuperate financially for ,;,•\\elal of the fraternities in the matter. women> an exam consisting of the th1rd and fourth acts by what that event if a soiree were held. There is a long gap uetween the Novem;ber dances and the March dances. It does seem feasible that The interfraternity council which was abolished t>vo years ago was unworthy of Union College. Yet, the fact remains that a dance for the entire college in December >ther institutions of Guion':; size have such would break up the utter mot1otony of a win- org·anizations that function smoothly. ter that is lacking of campus social activity. To return to the status of student body If sophomore soiree is not revived this meetings it would be wise if the members of year it seems very likely that there never the three upper classes continued to show q, manifest interest in their own affairs. will be another one. It's LIP to the 1 · sop 10 - Twenty minutes a week for the first five mores to get together and decide whether or weeks is little enoug·h to ask of Rtudents to not they want a dance this year. show an interest in their own affairs. problems, the answers to which , may b_e mterpr~ted as sub-climaxes. were in the back of the book, and The ~~~st act likewise contains an forbade them to look at the an- exposttron, folowed in the second :>wers. Leaving the room, the pro- act by the rising action. The effect fessor then peeked through a one- ,of the numerous sub-cllmaxes is to way ~creen. Exactly 46')1- cribbed. pro.duce a startling and continued Questioned afterwards, the guilty ser1es of explosive incidents which ones denied that they felt guilty· seem t~ ~olve the plot of the olay .. * while the innocent were far mor~ but wf11ch in reality only serve t~ A d nervous. Th~ guilty also in general c~mphcate matters so that the final n, so, my readers, both of you, were aggressive; had been violently ·Climax m the last act may serve its (~hats a very old wheeze) if at any punished by their fathers in child- purpose. trme you wish to express yourself hoo.d: had resisted; and disliked Such. play construction, seldom 0 ? any burning issue I will not thetr fathers. The innocent had found m present day works, is in- .srgn your petitions, 'espouse· your been corrected only mildly· and re- deed a pleasure to watch on th cause, _or salve your wounds. But spected their fathers. ' Which st~ge. Mt:s. Centlivre has added toe ~n~. thmg I will do. If any contri: proves 7 this tech b u IOns are set to this column I · nique oth a splendid cast shall . e~deavor to print them· . Be· 000 Thought for the week (from of characters and a variety of nos- not tim d f tumes Th \ . 1 • or contributing to col- the a.rticle \Forces That Control : 9 .result is sure to be umns 1s both mte t a recognized sport No less t,,he Schools\ in October Harpers) ·, res mg and entertain1'n . a person th H · What the M t b g · . · an · A. Lan·abee has Many educators do not think . oun e anks can do contnbuted to F. p A , 8 \C 1 enough to ltnow that they are not Wtth such a play is yet to be seen. Tower\ . th . . . onn ng free,\ However we are confident of th y m e \Herald Tribune \ outcome, e ou see, It's quite respectable. · -J. B. D. Union 1 Open ~ <Con tin For the firs· the Garnet adaquate blc is one fa largely instr1 tide of Sat backs are s have an ae: among the J:: should make department. the final poli Hatfield, ho~ that \we are Bill V One strokE all the bad dealt the var that Bill W the 1932 elev ported for p: be a big add found it nee for a year ~ football in 1' been out for days limberi: duty later in Wesleyan tion, exactly one which s: year. O'Lea: another year at his old tackle will Overton, wh will rememb tor in the VI ago. Left g· and Captain ter. Craig, one new rna: at right gu right tackle eran of two paigns. Rig care of by Jc erans and let Cardinal 'l'he backfi quarterback • mention on can team. J ior this year, of the CardiJ tion at quart Burton will backs and 1 fullback. These mer knowledge £ heady, alert ing a new s: coach this YE its worth. Ut last year at to win. The probal Pos. Unim LE SloatmE LT Gatchel LG Finch . C Barton RG Rotund RT Krull . RE Milano QB Semera LHB Dain, ( RHB Liffiton f FB Brown Referee: C A. E. Risley; Miller. Time ~s= ~ Perhaps th pect of the season is thE should come is thus faced opening the rate small 1 which will p cream of the for a succe much brighb to open agai Deacons wot vide so mw Cardinals a1 home team a a bit more, ' A decisive v first game is effect it has attitude, A goes a long · ful campaign Our bacl tlran capab in tomono' combirui.tio1 Brown, am one. If th( get the sll~ usually att sity game 1 football tb ) tlrere will to find faul backfield. with tlreir ity, can b1 tllan hold 1 Stevenson, ruff, apl)llli baeks also. The matte! will probably the line. Its to be of th• especially in lt!es, If the~ row, I think

{. Union Gridders To: · ~ Open Season Here·: <Continued from Page 1) For the first time in many moons the Garnet is able to present an .1•. adaquate blocking system and th1s is one factor that may be l!vrgely instrumental in turning the '· tide of Saturday's contest. The backs are shifty and fast. They have an aerial attack that rates among the best and the Dut:hme.n should make much yardage m this , department. The eleven sli'J.l needs l 1 : the final polish, nevertheless. Coach , ·I Hatfield however, is still saying 1. 1 that \w~ are not so bad off.\ Bill Waldron Reports One stroke of good luck among all the bad ones that have been dealt the varsity mentor is the fact that Bill vValdron, star tac~le of the 1932 eleven, has once agmn 1 e- ported for practice and is going ~o be a big addition to the team. ~111 found it necessary to stop playmg for a year and did not report for football in 1933. He has, however, been out for the past two or three days limbering up, and should :;ee duty later in the season. Wesleyan has, with one excep- tion, exactly the same lineup as the· one which started the fray last year. O'Leary, who has yet to see. another year after this one, will be at his old post, left end. Left tackle will be taken care of by Overton, whom many Union fans will remember as being a big fac- tor in the Wesleyan lineup a year ago. Left guard will be Eastman, and Captain Eyerly will be at cen- ter. Craig, a sophomore, and the one new man on the team, will be at right guard. Next to him in right tackle will be J. Burt, a vet- 1 • eran of two other varsity cam- paigns. Right end will be tal{en care of by Jones or Frost, both vet- erans and lettermen from ·last year. Cardinal Backfield Excellent 'l'he backfield will have in it a quarterback who received honorable 1 mention on last year's All Ameri- 1 can team. Johnson, who is a jun- I ior this year, will direct the actions 1 1 1 of the Cardinals from his old posi- tion at quarterback. Whitney, and I I Burton will be the Wesleyan half- backs and Huntress will play at I ~~~ fullback. These men are full of football knowledge and are hard-playing, heady, alert boys. They are play- I ing a new system under a new coach this year and are out to test THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1934 WATCH THE PROGRESS OF THE FALL TENNIS TOURNAMENT 1st Ro1md 2nd Rotind 3rd Round Quarter-Finals T.stroe~- -- --~ _2:__<byel _i ___ s_t_r_o_eb_el_ ___ ---------, r fo~~~hOP- -- r----- ::o~s[~ I---------, ______ -- -- 5. Passenger _~Whipple ___ _ -.:;: Enzer _____ ----- ------·1------- _8. Tiffan_y ____ .. _________ _ 9. Lawrence 10. Jennings it. Poggenpohl- - --nel.it_l ___ --------·--- 12. Deutl 6-3 1 6-1 1----- 13. Beik 14. Kellin 15. Bergstrom 16. McGee 17. Fox 18. <bye) ----- -----·- - -- 19. Langer 20. Hull ------ 21. B. Stewart 22. VanWormer ------- 23. Dean 24. Friedman Fox Langer 6-4, 17-9, 6-3 Stewart 6-4, 7-5 ----·----·- .. -------- -------- 25. VanNordstrand 26. Owen ---------- 27. Darrow 28. Nott ----- 29. Seider 30. Marshall ::.;c:.._c..::..::c. ____ l _____ ------- 31. Moffett Moffett 32. c~~L _________________ _ 33. Hawley ---·-----1---- 1------ 3-!- <bye) _______ _ Hawley I ----\---1-- 3~ summe1 hayes - 1 - --·s:::u_m_m_e-~\\·h-:-a-y-es 36. N. Stewart 1 ·6-4, 5-l, D. 1-- _______ I ----·---1 37. Rockford 38. Symonds 1 I ---~--- --------- ____ 1---------l 39. Ba:xter 40. Wilberl~_Y ___ _ ~-:;:-,...--- ____ l---------1 41. 01 ton '!_2. Ca~!!enter __ _--------·1 Semi-Finals Finals I _______ _ ---------- i ; I i I 'l . I i I I; il ! Three THE ACME BARBER SHOP Welcomes the Freshmen to Union College 509 UNION ST. N·EAREST THE CAMPUS Start the its worth. Union tied the Cardinals I last year at 7-7 after being slated to win. The probable lineup: Pos. Union Wesleyan LE Sloatman, Waldron ... O'Leary LT Gatchell . . . . . . . . . . . . Overton LG Finch .............. Eastman C Barton ...... Eyerly CCapt.) I 43. Hinman 1--------1 i---- 4:..:1c:.. --'H-'=at\'h\'a--'w_a--'y'---- ________ _ 45. Byrne 46. Hallenbeck ---------1 47. Clifton 1 Season Right RG Rotunda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Craig RT Krull ............... J. Burt RE Milano ................ Jones QB Semerad . . . . . . . . . . . Johnson LHB Dain, <Capt.l . . . . . . . . Burton RHB Liffiton . . . . . . . . . . . . Whitney f FE Brown . . . . . . . . . . . . Huntress Referee: C. W. Olney; Umpire: A. E. Risley; Head Linesman: T. P. Miller. Time: 2:30 p. m. Garnet Grumblings By AUSTIN FOX Perhaps the most regrettable as- pect of the Union schedule this season is that the Wesleyan game should come first. The Union team is thus faced with the prospect of opening the season against a first rate small college club and one which will probably constitute the cream of the Little Three. Chances 48. BrPndow I ' 49. Wold _50_._S~1_ob_o_d ____________________ J-------------- --:::,.....-::::------- ----·------- 51. B. Brown 52. McManus 53. Ladue 54. Thorne 55. Helling 56. J. Brown 57. Schaefer 58. Salad 59. Snyder I j I .. 60. Schultz 1---------- fil. Farrar 62. Linda:bury 63. Cohen Cohen 64. <bye) D.-DEFAULT for a successful year might be ' J much brighter if the Garnet were I to open against, say, Hobart. The ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~~~~~;;~;;;;;;;;:;;;~;;~~~~;;;;~~!;~;;;;;;~:;;;;;~-~--~~-~ Deacons would probably not pro- • ----- vide so much opposition as the ~--- Cardinals and thereby give the repose around the shapely head of in his way think twice before home team a chance to experiment Miss Miner-va of the Union College flinging himself at Joe. Elev- a bit more, with beneficial results. seal. If they don't, well, Dewey en men swarming down in this A decisive victory in the season's took Manila, too. fashion under a kicl•off can first game is also a big help .in the We hate to throw anyone a have a very disastrous mental effect it has on the players' mental corsage so early in the season; as well as physical effect on an attitude, A little confidence often but if all of Hatfield's Horde opposing team. One of the most goes a long way toward a success- got down under ldckoffs the disCouraging things about play- ful campaign. way Joe Milano does, the dis- ing the game is to see a horde tance our opponents would run of players cometting down un- Our backfield will he more titan capable of holding its own in tomorrow's engagement. The combination of Semerad, Dain, Brown, and Liffiton is a tough one. If the latter hl'o can for- get the slight nervousness that usually attends one's first var- sity game and play the kind of football they are capable of, J there will be little with which to find fault in the work of the backfield. Dain and Semerad, with their experience and abil- ity, can be expected to more than hold up their end. Burton, Stevenson, Clinton and Wood- ruff, ap}leat• to be dependable backs also. the ball baek would be practic- der a kickoff at you. If Dain wins the toss tomorrow, and ally nil. On this play, one of elects to kicl•, and the team the prettiest in the whole game goes down en masse in Milano of football, he tears down un- them in a manner admirable style, the game will be already to behold, making whomever is a. third won. PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. FERRY STREET Schenectady, N~ Y. REUTER'S BOWLING ALLEYS BOWLING ACADEMY 148 CLINTON STREET The matter of victory or defeat will probably hinge on the play of the line. Its quality so far seems to be of the black pony variety, especially in the vicinity of the tac- ltles. If they come through tomor- row, I think the laurel wreath willjl.!.==;;:;;;===================;=====;..~ SCHENECTADY'S POPULAR RENDEZVOUS GOLD'S RESTAURANT· TAPROOM • DELICATESSEN F1·o-joy Ice Cl·eam has been awarded the \Good· Housekeep- ing\ seal of approval, carefully awarded for purity, cleanliness and quaJitiV of ingredients. At Your Dealer's Store or PHONE 4-3 I 2 I LAFAYETTE LUNCH We serve the best quality of home-cooked food at Reasonable Prices 170 LAFAYETTE ST. The Acme House Linen Supply Co., Inc. Rents Linen for All Occasions You Pay for Laundry Work Only 1030 BARRETT ST. Phone 4-9310 Buy a free-swing Suit. In TWEED or the new COLONY CLOTH- -carried models. • 1n a II Also see our large assortment of TOPCOATS- Box or Raglan models. Prices begin at on Topcoats Suits start at $21.50 Willa iii A Shop For Men

Fuur ReY. Philemon F. ~turgcs I T() llt·lhet·Sermon ~unda~ IJH. Fll\- TO ~Pt:.\1\. O('TOIH:H I t \ t !. .11~ t 1, r Touch Foot hall ('lose :vta tches Fac.:ulty Tennis Feature 1 Pre(1at'C Tourney For Fox's • ., • • I fl om thie lottny fotmed the bn>'is ~~··\ l't.o~:, :Jt• tl 1 ~~~~~ -> l\ I ,; 1 ll I I ~ t 11 ' . l • ' I t I ' t • I I : l ' . : :- '!. l> . '.I I<., ,· ..... loll i• lll 1'1, , , ,I· ' ~ ( IJ' i 'IJ . \!. -Jt .1. '' ,. .1 . j :.t \ t 1: 'I,., • d ~~ t\... \.J I l I , 1 ~ ; I! ,. ~t l'.tlti. i:t l:tt·Ltdl \\ ,l, 'I!. h 'tl' : 1' Ll ~ I,,. ~.llt' ! .. ''· \ ' I'',. l '. 1 :t. , .. : .. ,1 t·•II\-•.J• \a'. •I t -•t • r ,. :-:. ., ,,·1:. '1 1·1, tt·L,-1 :-.:.:t;,,o •\ ''I· I 1 I ;-.. ~ l.l -- t. ~ \ it•t q ·-·· l \-•\t'l til .. t't• t'tlllltL 111. ~.w 'l••t: •. ;-,! \I, . 1 :- • · \\ I :... .J l_ 't l;l! 1 b. i··~ \\ .d• •·' • 1 ~ l .1!,1..• ! • ... !. ,\' .t:o It i'' l: ', t'' ·•!L • , 11.1 I '' -1 \ I t-'lh II:. \\: ' b. • I II l!l•. ' \I. l' ndl'r Olin Tomonow • ':t.t·' . ,,;,' ll•.ll·- '! • \\ ' ·,t· \ . :' ~ ' ' : ) ' ' ' T ; I •, \ . •l•·: .. , i .• '!.[ -1'. ''. i' : . ~ ·.t ,, - \1! r·:·t . • \ .. ~ . I' )I i, I ,;_ .. , \. t ' . 1 :· I . ' : I I • t • ; • ~ I . • I ' : • { ·,I,; t' t· ·I •f' -- ~ ,., :~ d t·t' ... :.t I L: ·•\ l '\ I; . 1.·. i- ·' .I 'I ,,. t. .. ,. ' I 1: ll• \\ ' . 1·. , · Jo,., L \• I\ .. ;' -. ·\ '·\ l-:. ! 1 ,· ,( 1 •:•: t ,,l :f, -l' t ~ I- Jl ~ •t ~~I ' : .... '·· ·,JL \\ j, _, •• .f, I. i. :. - ' I ... ' ~ : .. ,. 1'! ,\[ . I I-' .II \' ,. ' h ,· \'!' 1: ·I ' ~ ' ' \ ' ~ t-.' '1 \,\' .r .. 1 ·•·l· _,., ''\ ~ I '•' .' '•. \ .\.THLI-:1'1( · ;o..;OTICE ~!:ldt·llt l•·t'~t:-- · 1 - \t·;J a,-. It•- != \-t'l\ -t·t~ t:t·i..·~- ll·tl .... t :.t• Jllt'- .. t'Iltt•d .t.t t'ht' ;:...;.t't· !•I! tdllJI.,...,lull tu : ·til t•,t•!b.d! ~ · Ult .... _ ·I i' t: 1 .. ; ... : <: ,:,;11 \o ' ~. HENRY'S BARBER SHOP (···: .... : .\'' !,,t' t.' · ... ; ,.\_ ;; ,\ .t· :. 't' \~ '. ' \\ l .I li!..- ~ t!; ' • I· I. til \ I t • ',\.' . ,,1• t I {'I' t·','' Ur. l'o\ tn .\llt.in• ........ \lluuni WHITEW A y BARBER I, SHOP ,Julin Z:q>ala. Ptf•l' H . .nL<·t- \L•dr·rn ,t:·d ~~d-:Jl,\1\ Ill I \ t•i \ \\'.1\ Ill! \\tith \L l nd•·l tit•· .... , ht llt'f.'t.ld,\ . .:'\ \. RALPH KNISKERN :-.\11:: and l.OC1~ l·.:'l..i'I-:KI' llllhle•ll:! Hq>:tllin~; an•l !{t'l'll\t- IIU:,_;; l'~li Lli>.tt~ -;11• •1 ,,·Jwrw~·t:td~, ~ \ -----------·-- The top of the Morning Ahernoon Evening FELT / The c.b~· infornLdity ,,j this I I ' Snap Brim. h.1~ made it 11T1t: of the lllt J't pnpuLu h,lts I with well-dre~~ed men. Styled by Ameri•.a's Foremost HattP Minham's Men Shop 197 Jay Street ~::.PB~k:I~~G _1:->.:J !\'~.~,j!CURI~;G I 0 N.Y. C. Arcade \It's toasted\ .; r ullr tlu·oat protection -aguwst irntalwn -agtlitlll c·oug!. . ~ --:: = Belling.er Paint Co. ,\HT!H'R TIUGG. !'top. l'uinb, Oils, \'tlrnishrs, (;lass Jhu\h\\ and \.\'uli J>ap('l' CHARLES' Formerly ED'S PRESS 12ti HHOAD\\'A Y The Garnet Tailor 605 UBERTY ST. We Call for and Deliver l'l'll. -t-ll!22 ow Naturally, they taste better-because Luckies use \The Cream of the Crop\-only the clean center leaves-these are the mild- est leaves-they cost more-they taste better. • .---· • • • • • • : I I • • L_. \'ol. Stt As u~ Prol B y Disc N Th JI101U the day ut' th tiun urnn.:: ~untu table tu at: atiun It ;·HJp!u then the ~ 111 e ~ I Pjf'C Pu that rune! t'llUUJ getht that ullt.'ll l'aU::,t (Jilt.! Ill L', {·lght lw :·H. \ ft·\ Jur \\'t>lt\ :· t•al foutb I•t•titl l ~u tun. lt!ld t•d Ill <lplir nuun Ev man hd!-- till.ill !It' i untl l:p~il Lit' ~ity ~uph< !'UUUt fle>h the f tl'>llll lh•ltu Luny. ~II :·. VUI fll'~h the ~ Lull t :t!t'd tPI nl Slu the f l<•an1 lip b IP1ni Do lllOIP ulso lh· i: Phi, So , S< net·\ tiC'le Uat·y \UCCE in s: inter 011101' \how plant -linn< of d< to in gage• ly. Th The vorit us t fresh hotel follo• lions anne entr~ fresh hotel thrm the

Four Rev. Philemon F. Sturges To Deliver Sermon Sunday Rev. Phlletnon F. Sturges D. D., dean of the Cathedral Church of St. Paul in Boston, wHl be the guest preacher· at the college chapel ,;ervices Sunday morning at eleven o'clock. The lopk of hi~ tiel·- mon will be \Civilization and the Discerning Heart.\ Dr. ·Sturges has an intimate con- nection with Union Col\Pge through his wife. Mrs. Sturges is the great granddaughter of Ellphalet Nott. Her grnndfnth<'r. Alonzo Pott.Pr came from St. Paul';; in Boston, to Union; and her father was Dr. Eli- pha:let Nott Potter, president of the college fifty years ago. Although born in Utica, Dr. Sturges received his early educa- tion in Germany. He graduated from Yale with the class of 1896 and attended the Episcopal Theo- logical School in Cambridge. Later, Brown University conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Divin- ity. Before becoming dean of St. Paul's, Dr. Sturges served at St. George's Chur1:h in New Yol\l>; St. Peter'>~, Morristown, N. J.; and Grace Church, Providence, R. I. ---0--- FENCING NOTICE Freshmen and upperclassmen who are interested in fencing· az·e asked to report to the trophy room of the gymnasiunt on Tuesday at 3:30. Fencing will be conducted this year a:; a part of the intramural pro- gram under the direction of M:r. Kurt Von Fontmyer. An a.n.ge- ment,; will be tnade for meets with Williams and Hamilton as well as with other colleges. ---·-·-{)- --·-- Dt·. Fox to Address Alumni Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox will address the monthly meeting of the Sche- nectady County Alumni A>!sociat!on of Union College to be held October 1, 1934 at the Mohawk Club. corner of Union and North Church Streets, at 12:15. WHITEW A Y BARBER SHOP Jolm Zapala, Prop. 7 Professional Barbers Modern and Sanitary in Every Way 401 Smltb St., Cnder the Abia Scltenectady, N. Y. RALPH KNISKERN SAFE and LOCK EXPERT Umbrella Rt>pairlng and Recuve ring 426 Liberty Strert Sch~nectady, N. Y. I ~--------------------~1 - I ~~~~~~--~~~~~' The top of the : Morning Afternoon COPYRIGHT CROF'UT Bt KNAPP CO., 19~.( The easy informality of this Snap Erim, has made it one of the most popular hats with well-dressed men. Styled by Amerit:a's Foremost Hatteo Minham's Men Shop 197 Jay Street THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1934 nR. Fox To sPE~K ocToBER 1 J Touch Football . On Monda.y evening, ~ctober_ the I --- !list, at 8:00 p. m., Prestdent D1xon 1 Schedule First Round Ryan !<'ox will speak on the ~ub- I \lou <Ia\' oct 1_:_ ject \The V'anqul:;hed Naturalist.\! Alphit' l!elt~ Phi vs. Alpha Phi Delta. This lecture, sponsored by the Un·1 lt<•fel't•e-.:llilano. ion Chapter of the Society of Sig- 1 I<appu i:3lgma \\o. Xeutral•. Heferee rna Xi and Phi Beta Kappa will ' , ·-Hutumlu. • 1 futl~Hlay-- tulte place m the old ChapP!. · Sigma l'lu y,_ Ka(l!Jlt :-:u. H.efei•ee- - -·- ---0 Burton. Phi Uamma llella vs. Kappa Alpha. College Band under Olin ltef.-ree-Rynasko. 1\'etlnestlaY- NileS to Play Tomorrow Delta Phi vs. 'l'heta Nu J~psilon. . l·!·1f€lJ'fltl :\f.ila11n. --- I l'hi Pella Theta ''\· Bda 'l'heln Pl. . :tJnder the direction of ~h·. A.,Olin Thu~~~{:~.=.:-ltotundu. ~1lc.:.:.1 the College banJ 1,:) hu.~.Jlllb ·L·hL t'::u \' .... 1'111 ::itgum l~uppl.l. H.e- tegulat· practice, preparatory to the fe1·ee-Durton. com1ng football sea~on. lt will num- Theta llelt:t l:hl \\· l'hi i::lignm ber appr·oximately 45 membet'<i this .. llelta. iteferee-Ryua.,ku. d .. t W'll' W'll 1 ' •·•Llay- year, accor mg o 1 tam 1 - Psi L'IJsilon vs. Sigma Chi. Referee- son, '35, head of the organization. .Milano. The band will play tnt:; season at all home games, including the one with \Vcsleyan tomorrow, and will ncrompany the team to Rochester and R. P. I. Mr. Niles has intro- duced a new set of marches which will be played in addttion to the !'\!gular College songs. Mr. Niles is at present leadc•· of lhe 105th Infantry Band at Troy, and is in charge of all music at R. P. I. He has been in professional ·band w01·k for appr·oximately 12 yc-.ars. Virgil Sager, '35, last year's d1·um major, will probably act in that ca- pacity again this season, accord- ing to Willson. 1 )eltn. l 'p~ilon draws a flrHt ·round l.iye. Rules .\ll gamPs will be played on Alexan- lll\'l' lt'JL .. hi u.t 12:45 p. tn. Teams will be cornpo~ed of nine men. Members of varsity and fresh- man football squads are ineligible. :'\o [Jostponements for inelement weather will be gmnted unles\ author· lze<i by the DepLHtmt•n t of !'hysical H1ltwation. ---<0---- ATHLETIC NOTICE Student passes as well as re- served seat tickets must be pre- sented at the gate for admission to all football games. HENRY·s BARBER SHOP • BARBERING and MANICURING 10 N. Y. C. Arcade { Your throat protection -against irritation -agaimt cough The - Close Matches Faculty Tennis Featu1·e Prepa1·e Histodc Ex:hibit ~~o~n;:~~s 1 ~~~e~~~~~ed the basl11 TOUl'ney For Fox's Inauguration A section of the exhibition will --- feature the fraternities which were Several first ami e;econd round matches have -been played in the Faculty Fall Tennis Tournament which began early this week. In a first lOund match Achilles beat C~rroll, 6-2, 6-3. Walnger and Thatcher have not yet played the only other first round match. in the second round P. Smith de- faulted to Palermo; Stanley de- ftated Cununinti, 4·6, 6-1, 6-3; Fox beat Larrabee, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4. The re- maining matches in this round pit Mavor at;:ainst Ligun, Luelu agaim;t ·Clark, Bennett against Burkett, and Studer against Rojansky. As a re- sult of their victories, Stanley and Fox will meet in the quarter·-final round. For the second year in succession the tournament has been deprived of a colorful rivah-y, tha,t between Professors Wainger and Doty, two excellent players. Last year Pro- fessor Wainger watS away on ·his sabbatical leave and this year his opponent in the net wars is on ·h;s founded at Union College: Kappa {Continued from Page ll AJpha in 1825, Sigma Phi and DeJ.ta of studm·t publications will be dis- Phi, 1827; Psi Qpsilon, 1833; Chi played from \The Pastime\ .edited Psi, 1841; and Theta Delta Chi, by John Howatd Payne in 1807: to· 1847. The otlginal insignia of the~c the early issues of The Concordten- · fratet nities will be dis·.played. sis, w·hich has had a continuous existence siuce 1877. Bellinger Paint Co. ARTHUR TRIGG, P.rop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Gl~ss Bt'l.tshes and WaU Paper 126 BROADWAY Papers regatding the lottery which Union College and sever.a.J · · othet' instltut·lons conducted 1n the' early part of the nineteenth cen-~ tmy will be exhibited. At a ctit:ical • moment In this. venture. Dr. Nott mortgaged all the buildings and,, property of the college to save the • enter.ptise flam failure. The .profits· 1-----~----------1 CHARLES' Fonnerly ED'S The Official Union College Barber for the past 24 years. Ask any upper classmen, they know. 11 operators. Schenectady's greatest barber. COR. ST:A.TE AND BROADWAY The vacation. ~==============~ rill II 1111 II 111111111 II 111111111111111111111 i11111111 II 11111111111111111 1111111111111 II II II IIIII; the.. . . Ga.rnet Tai~lor 605 UBERTY ST. i GAZETTE PRESS ~~ : ~ I We Call for and Deliver Tel. 4-0122 : §I ?.'llllllllllllllllll 11111111111111111 Jllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllli< ow efreshing / Naturally, they taste better-because Luckies use \The Cream of the Crop\-only the clean center leaves-these are the mild· est leaves-they cost more-t··h . b . . ey taste . etter. • ·~ · .Sttu As.~ ... U:p: .. : Prota, ;Re YeE Discul Ne~ The rno1:e l the stl ·day b~ of that tion s1 umns • some d table t to allo1 ation . It ·W . soph.-<Jrr thema the sol .tire :stu rejecte' • Prot! ithat t: functio enou.gh gethet·. that IE attendE cause . ono da lin casE 'eighths ibe sact <a fev:. ·• Junk ,were ·a: 'a calli Jootbul . petit.ior Robe ton, Et and Jo ,ed me11 :ciplino .nounce Evet n1.an of :has be ··1nan II He is and is · Upsilor Llffit si ty fo sophoa .COUU('!l freshm the fte teatns. Delta· ·bany. ; Brow P. vaz·sl . ,fre$hm . lhc gl< i ball an. [ ated w :, ; te1·nity. , Sloat ; the tre i• ; ~ I. 1\ ! • ' teams. he Is a tel'll.ity. Doylj . 111.ore b \also pi • lie is: ·Phi, ar \Sop! ner\ 1'1 ticle lr uary- 2 success in s:pl1 inte~feJ omores show I pla)l:D!t Jinners :of dEVi 'to b:l.SU • ·gaged Jy. Tlu The R' vorlte · as thl' ' freahm ~-;,_; hot~l ! ;',f.- foll().\Wl . :i'~' ti<ms ''!\ armed· '~. entl'anj ·:~ freahm . '~ hotel . ~ ·~;. thro-vili the so

