E )U e- y. lo at ·le in a In !d! ISe ,u Eike ad- Ldy, bat ··-----· •• Ill •••• , ~ Argentine l 'I Students I ' I v.isit Cam:pus Ov-h Week-end ,.,_,...._._ ............ ·- Lana bee Discusses Evolution Of Learned n•~:~: ..... J Vol. LVIII., No. 32 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1935 PRICE FIVE CENTS Larrabee· Talks On I Ladies of Learning, Then And Now CALENDAR •.romorJ•ow A. ppoint Hall And Abbett Describes Mod~rn Two Argen: tt·ne Students On Haskell to Model Skyscraper Construction c. f' w' k.. . : d 'v· . Daily Assembly-Dr. E. J. Berg. ' 2:00-Fteshman Hockey, Union vs. Vlinton Cenbal High School, Schenectady. 2:30-Swimming, Union vs. Syra- . Assembly Group \Al~ough the skyscraper .h.as ampus or . ee en , . ISit · · . · · come 1n for a great deal of Cl'ttlc- ism as being an unnecessary and Contends That Equalization Of Opportunity Between Sexes Has Gone Too Far cuse University, Foote Pool. 8:00 - Freshman EasketbaU, Union vs. No.tt Terrace at Nott . Terrace. Varsity Basketball, Union vs. Stevens at Hoboken. \fo Replace Olson and Waldron In Union Delegation; Will Represent Russia Repaying Call Wh.ich North Made to South American Counb·y While on Toqr Visiting Sehools unnatural institution, great social changes frequently coincide with great engineering developments, and it is no accident that the de- mand for space in financial and in- --- dustrial centers conincided with During Last Summer Leith-Ross Art Exhibit To Close Tomon·ow Night the successful use of structural Tradition Dominant Sunday 11:15-Sunday Service, PJ:eacher,: D . Th Q t' steel,\ declared Robert w_ Abbett, ISCUSS ree UeS lOllS assistant professor of building con- Century Old Handicap Great to Overcome In Short Time Too Dr. Jesse H. Holmes, Depart-. ment of Philosophy, Swar-th- mot·e College. 4:00-0rgan Recita-l, Dr. Tid- marsh. Consider Covenant Revision, Control of Trade in Arms, And World Economy struction, yesterday morning in ad- dressing the student body. Mr. Abbett, in his speech, ex- plained the four fundamental ele- ments which have made possible the ·~birth of this typically Amer- ican institution. He said, \The in- Before the American Association of University Women, last night, Dr. Harold A. Larrabee, professor of philosophy, in his lecture in \The . Learned Lady-Then and Now\ contended ''Things have gone too far in the direction of the equaliz- ation of opportunity between the sexes.\ Monday lO:Oo-Student Body Meeting, Old Chapel. Tuesday Daily Assembly- Prof. Charles T. Male. Payment of Tuition and Repeat- ed Course fee, at Comptroller's Office. Union College will represent Rus- vention of the three structural ele- sia when the Model Assembly of ments, the steel beams, flat arch the League of Nations convenes in floor, and the spread footing made New York City April 11-13, Dr. the skyscraper both structurally Philip Mosely, adviser to the Union and economically possible. To make delegation, announced at 81 meeting it usable there only remained the of the delegaJtes Wednesday after- problem of vertical transportation. noon. The delegation had requested This problem was solved by the this assignment by the League's high-speed elevator • . , continuation committee since Rus- Mr. Abbett enumerated several sia is Dr. Mosely's particular field striking changes which have been of study. . made in the skyscraper since Wil- \Tremendous contrasts exist be- tween the woman Ph. D. of today,\ he said, \and the 'learned lady' of the fifteenth and the nineteenth century, and yet much remains be- fore we can claim that women have a fair chance to show what they c~n do in the realm of scholarship. Men have been scholars in the Wes- tern World f()r at least twenty4ive, centuries; but the first learned · ladies outside monastic orders ap- peared only about five <.-enturies ago, and received little real encour- agement until the last five decades of our history. Springer P r a i~s e s Tre 1 nd of Morals I \Age of Jazz, Gin and Rac- coon Coats Passing,\ Says Troy School Headmaster George Haskell and John D. Hall liam C. Jenny built the first one were appoined to the delegation 50 years ago. The New York Zon- this week to fill vacancies created ing law has given the modern sky- by the •transfer of Carl Olson to the scraper the \Grand Canyon\ effect Model Council gt·oup and the with- in its commercial centers, instead drawal 01' William A. Waldron. The of the \elongated cube\ style. \The appointments were made by the very great change in the artistic faculty adviser with the recommen- decoration of interiors has appeared dation of the delegation. withjn the past two or three years. Haskell in Mountebanl•s The most notable invention is per- Women Handicapped \Women cannot overcome the ac- cumulated handicaps <Jf twenty-odd centuries overnight; and in fact the present generation has witnessed some disheartening losses of ground which everyone thought had been permanently gained • . . \There is a something almost grotesque, when you stop to think about it,\ the speaker declared, about our educational division of labor among the sexes. For the first twelve years of a child's life, women teachers are almost the un- iversal rule; but once college is en- tered, thero is an equal preponder- ance of men. Women virtually mon- opolize one field; men do the same in the other. Of course there are traditional reasons for this state of affairs; but it wholly distorts and misrepresents the true picture of the distribution of intellectual and pedagogical ability among women and men. Doctor's Degt•ees \The proportion of doctor's de- grees received by women has risen from about 10 per cent in 1900 to a high-water mark of 17 per cent just after tbe war, and seems now to be on the decline. Since nearly all graduate work in this country is subsidized either directly or in- directly, we must consider well the claims of women to receive a lar- ~er share of such training. The fear that marriage will terminate their work as research workers and teachers has blocked the path of opportunity for many girls fully (Continued on Page 4) --o Poetic Renaissance Hope Of Eleven Men on Campus A poetry group of eleven men met in room eleven of the North Section of North College Wednes- day night for the purpose of initia- ting a poetic renaissance on thE campus. \Too many men are going Lo col- lege who do not know what it is all Haskell, a member of the Alpha about,\ declared E. Laurence Delta Phi fratex·nlty, has been regu- larly on the Dean's List and espe- Sprlnger, headmaster of the Troy cial!y prominent in his appearances Country Day School, in daily assem- with the Mountebanks. He played bly Tuesday morning. '\rhe age of important roles in \Everyman gin, jazz, and racoon coats is pass- \The Hairy Ape,\ \A Bold Stroke for a Wife,\ and was especially out- ing away from the American col- standing· in his performance as Se- lege, and education is bringing a gard in \S. S. Tenacity.\ He is co- serious social and moral condition.\ manager of the Students' Service Mr. Springer, in outlining the . Bureau, a, cheer-leader, and was on the freshman football team and transition from high school to col- baseball team last year. lege, stated that \it is best that a Hall on Model Cotmcil Too student finish high school a success Hall, who is also a member of the than to fail in his work in college. Model Council delegation, was .A.n attack is being made on the singled out for commendation at modern universities because they the meeting of advisers during the fail to produce leaders, everyone session, for several points which he who goes to college does not be- had brought forth. come one of the so-called leaders.\ Tllree P1·oblems Considered Admissiou Requirem:enta In representing Russia the Union According to Mr. Springer a more delegation will have a major inter- gvadual process is necessary before est in each of the three questions granting a student admission to a constituting the aggenda for this college. Present-day secondary year's meeting: planned world aeon- schools are more interested in the omy, revision of Al'ticle XVI !on standards, equipment, tradition, and sanctions) of the League Covenant, scope of colleges than ever before, and control of the hade in arms. and schoolmasters are aiding their The discussion of a planned econ- students in sending them to the omy, in which Russia will be espe- right places. cially concerned, will be confined largely to agriculture and is to be The stanardized methods of selec- based upon the speech given by tion of students by colleges have RexfOJ·d G. Tugwe'l before the In- shown many fallacies, and the at- temational Institute of Agricultm e tempt is now being made to break last October. Rankine Hinman and away from the 15 unit requirements Richard Snyde 1 , who will study this for entrance. Minor technicalities question, were able to gain a direct cause a break in the relationships interpretation of Dr. · Tugwell's between scl;l.go!~ an(i <lolleges. views in the confe1 ence which the Mr. Springer prophecied hope for Ichabod Spencer lecturer gtanted the eduoational system., for \there upon his visit to the campus last is a real interest in public affairs in weel:. universities since the introduction Hugh Elwyn and James Doyle of the social studies courses,\ he will study the trade in arms, and said. \Schools and colleges are the question of revising Article XVI working together so that they will . will be handled by George Haskell not be concerned with the technical and John Hall. Several meetings matters of a busines.s, but the intel- will be held at which the three lectual matters of an education. topics will be separately reported Students are being equipped to face and considered, after which the some of the problems which cc>n- delegation will determine what front the world.\ stand it is to take on each. Journalists Need Shakespeare, Bible Says Dana in Address Here in 1893 A short talk on the villanelle as an illustration of one of the many styles of poetic form was given by r, membet• of the group. Plans for future meetings wer·e discussed, and, it was decided, that there The late Charles A. Dana, editor who is looking forward to this pro- would be short talks on particular of the New York Sun, presented in fession, in which the use of the forms by the members, as well as an address delivel'ed at Union in English language is the main thing, informal discussions by prominent 1893 his view of journalism. The since it is the instrument that he poetic critics of the capital district. context of his speech which was re- must apply continually for the ex- At the nex:t meeting to be held, cently reprinted in the Ventura pression of ideas and for the dis- FebrUary 20th, each membe1• will (Calif.) .Press was: semination of knowledge, is to present a modern French poem re- \When you begin to practice the know this language thoroUghly, and written in his own style from a profession of a newspaperman, then that is the very cornerstone of the literal translation. In addition Paul is the best time to learn it; but education that a journalist should Bachmann will p1·esent a detailed , while ;you are in college with the look forward to and should labor discussion of the villanelle. At each . daily series of professors and all the after and should neglect no oppor- meeting poetry written by members. appliances fo:r study Ulat belong to tunity- of improving himself in. of the olub will be discussed. the college, make the best of them The next thing that I would dwell The group, which is being assist~ • and pur<!ue vigorously those studies upon would be the knowledge of ed by Philip .A.. Smith, instructor of that give accUracy in learning, and politics, and especially of American English, consists of Paul Bachtnan, fidelity and accuoo.cy in recitation. politics. This is a very hard subject John Rorabeck, Jerome Rosen and The great end of education, Presi- ..• And while we are on this point, William McCord of the senior class; dent Walker used to say, is to be we may say in passing that an Wallace Foote of the junior class; able to tell what you ltnow; and he .A.mel'ican who thinlts another conn- John Davis, William Myers, Ferdi- used to say, too, that some bright try is better than this shoUld not go nand Helm, Jack Dowling and men carried it so fa1· that they were into journalism. You must be for Charles Reeves of the sophomore able to tell a great deal they did not the Stars and Stripes evezy time, or class; and Henry Seider of the knoW, the people of this country won't be freshman class. ''The first thing t})at the man (Continued on Page 4) haps in the use of photographic murals in Radio City.\ ... ---•0----- \Be Independent,\ Dr .. Fox Challenges Urges Students at Graduation Exercises on Long Island To Do Own Thinking Rab:ing again the appeal for non- conformity, Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox challenged the graduating students of Jamaica High School, Long Is- land, before whom he spoke last night, to recove1· a lost privilege- the privilege of independence in a monkey-see. monlu!y-do generation. He urged the young men and women at whose graduation exer- cises he was delivering the com- mencement address, to fol·low up the declaration and vows of youth to be original, independent and \different and to do a little of their own thinking. \Depth poise and serenity are not developed in ~rowds,\ he declared. Comparing youth to thP Unitrd States in the last part of the eigh- teenth centur:r, he said that, \just as the infant nation which ha:d just cut itself off from the mother countty was proudly crying to the world ·ar its i'rePdom, so the c>hil- dren of this century should take over the captaining of its destiny. In 1776, a new dignity exalted us as we planned to do what we our- selves thought best. The circum- stances of our individual life-the conduct of small proprietary farms, the conduet of small business- made freedom almost a religion. The mere absence of resttaint may, on reflection, seem a negative value. It gives the mon an open stage, but it does not tell him what part he is to play. It is nothing in itself, and yet that nothing is great• ly prized by the na,tion and the man as the beginning of greatness.\ Stating that he knew that young American in the last two decades have constantly been declaring their independence, he said that it must sound strange to the students to hear his admonitions against sameness and uniformity. \Young Amer1ca has been decln.ring against liberty from their elders, but not from each other. And it is with re- spect to his contemporaries that the individual most needs independence of our time. Collective independ- ence has been declared, and yet I doubt if any generation has shown less really independent thinking-. They revolt not singly, but in bri- gades.\ Dr. Fox: told the story of two girls who were overheard in a con- versation. Said one to the other, \Mamie why don't you fix: your ha:ir like mine? All the girls are do- ing it. Be original like the rest.\ So our youngsters, Dr. Fox: said, \seek to be original by violently copying each other.\ The exhibit of paintings by Harry Leith-Ross, A. N. A., which has been open in the Old Gym D?rm since Tuesday, January 15, Wlll be concluded tomorrow even- ing, February 2. The showing of water-colors and oil paintings has atll·acted much favorable comment and has been very well-attended. For the benefit of those who have not yet had the opportunity to view the paintings, the Old Gym Dorm will be open this evening as well as tomonow afternoon and evening. The hours will be from 3 to 6 and from 7 to 9. Following the closing, the exhibit is to go to the Institute of History and Art in Albany. R. Loring Dunn, Curator of the Institute, has re- quested permission to have the collection shown there during the month of March. Both Are Scholars Miss Dinah Tagliaferri Is Teacher, Alfredo Wagener Studying Economics On an extensive exploratory tour of South American countries last summer, Robert North '36 made a special effort to visit the schools a:nd ·see how they were conducted. This visit, at least to Argentina, is being repaid this weekend by two Argentine students who are the holder·s of travelling scholarships which have been a:warded to them for proficiency in the English lan- guage. Their stop here is chiefly to repay \Bob\ North's visit, but they will use their time here to see not only the college but also to study the . research laboratories of the General Electric Company. One of the students, Miss Dinah Tagliaferri had conducted Bob Bl k U ·North about the Instittue Cultural oc Dinner Is Argentine-Norte Americano where she teaches and today nad tamar- set fo .f Mar{l>h 18th row the Union outing leader will \J have a similar honor. Student Council to Supervise Annual Fete, Supplanting Tenace Body A tentative date for t.he Block U dinner was set at March 18th by Ralph Semerad '35, chairman of the Student Council, at a regular meeting Wednesday evening. The dinner will be In charge of the Stu- dent Council this year instead of the Terrace Council, as the custom has been in the past. Semerad ap- pointed James Loomis, '35, Austin Fox, '35, and James Doyle, '37, to serve on the program committee. John Moffet, '35, Joseph Milano, '36, and Semerad will aet as a ban- quet committee. Duncan McNab, '35, and Charles Krull, '36, will be in charge of publicity and printing. MacDowell Reads Letters Letters from leading small col- leges of the east describing meth- ods of granting major award~ were read by Raymond MacDowell, '35. Suggestions from these letters will be considered by the committee which is investigating a po~sib!e change in the methods used by the Union committee on awards. Robert North, '36, reported that the Administration has no objec- tions to holding dances after bas- ketball games provided the affairs are properly supervised. Whether or l.lOl such dances will be held this year depends upon the possibility of obtaining suitable music. ----0---- Glee Club to Give Joint Concert m High School The Glee Club will sing with the Schubert Club tommTow night at Mont Pleasant High School in a joint concert, which is sponsored in order to procure funds to aid the Boy Scouts in their camp. The Glee Club plans to give a group of songs by itself and • then will sing the \Halleluia Chorus\ with the Schu- bert Club. This is a part of the extensive program undertaken by .the college musical clubs this year. V/agoner Economic Student The other student is Alfredo Mario Wagener, a s·tudent of eco- nomics at the University of Buenos Aires. The two students from South America arrived last night from Boston and Mr. Wagener soon re- ceived a real taste of American campus life. After dining with his companion at the home of Bob's parents, both well known lecture- travellers, Mr. Wagener was taken to the Delta Upsilon fraternity house and sta,yed there for the night with Bob who is a member. Miss Tagliaferri stayed with Mr. and Mrs. North. Union College will officially greet the two travellers this afternoon at 3 o'clock. Dr. Edward Ellery, chair- man of the faculty, will in the ab- sence of President Fox welcome the Argentines to the campus in the president's office in the Admin- istr!htion buidling, Thereafter they ~ill be taken about the college and mtroduced to the various faculty and student leaders, as well as be given a glimpse of the classroom, laboratory, and ex:tra-curricular activities of the students. 'l\ake Siding Trips After their official greeting this afternoon, and tomorrow morning, the two Argentine students will be taken on short skiing trips about Schenectady by the Outing club headed by Bob North and Fred .A.. Wyatt, faculty adviser. Tonight the foreign travelers will hea:· of what an American thinks of their countr-y, a'lld of the other regions of South America, when they attend a lecture by Bob North att he Albany Boys Academy, Ai- ?any. Here the young traveller will tllustrate his talk with motion pic- tm·es and slides which he obtained dur-ing his trip. They will continue to Chicago after taking in the activities which Uni?n students norma:lly engage durmg the weekend; ice skating skiing, attending a basketball game: chapel exercises, and dancing. \Place of Faith in Modem Life\ Topic of Second Forum One wee!~ from today the choir will assist Dr. Elmer- A. Tidmarsh with his regu1ar 4 :3() organ recital broadcast over WGY. The choir The second in the series of For- plans to sing \On Great Lone Hills\ · ums sponsored by the College Chris- from Finlaudia by Jean Libelius, tian Association will be held Wed- \Steal Away\ negro spiritual ar- nesday, February 6, at 8 p .. m. in ranged by Fred Huntley and \Silent the Old Chapel. The leader will be Strings\ by Granville Bantocl~;. Dr. John L. March, professor of psychology, who will discuss the SCHOLARSHIP REPORT Scholarship reports for the second report period will be ready for distribution at noon on Tuesday, February 5. Repmts for the members of each fraternity chapter will be mailed to the hea:d of the chap- ter. Students who are not members of a fraternity will obtain their reports from their advisers. No reports will be given out at the Dean's· Office. <Signed) C. F. GARIS, Dean. question: \The Place of Faith in Modern Life\. This will be a con- tinuation of Dr. Fox's discussion \The Divine Partnership.\ ' The Forum led by Dr. March last year was the most popular, as wash shown by- the large attend- ance. DAUGHTER BORN TO KETZ A six pound girl, Anne Catherine was born to Mr. and Mrs. Wilford H. Ketz at the Ellis hospital at 1:30 o'clock yesterday afternoon. Both mother and daughter are re- ported as doin& nicely.

Two \A Causa Persa Parole /li;sai'' fOUNDED 1877 MEMBER ~sodated (folltgia1r ~t'rss .... '934 (j!'4)~~~iotSt 19 3s,... MAtHSON \11'\SCOHSIN Sole and l·~xt•lu::sivt> :-.:ational AtlverLsing n<>tll'(l~ ~~ntRtive. =--:aliunal Advertbing Servil-e, Int·., 11 \Ve;;t 4~nd St.. N. Y. C., 40U .:\'.., . .:\!iehigan AYe., Chicago. Illinois. The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, 'fhe Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter ~----- Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief <'hi' P~i Lntlge-4-6:.~7 Joseph A. Woolman .......... Managing Editor Kappa !':u Hou\.e-4-7331 William H. Fitzgerald ...... Business Manager J)elta Upsilon HOU>'t'--4-7!>2~ Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor Kappa !':u lloli\P-4-7331 Thornton W. Whipple ..... Circulation Manager <'hi l';;i LotlgP----1-6:,~7 Junior Board Vedder M. Gilbert. ............. Feature Editor Psi Upsilon Ilou\e-4-S710 ASSOCIATE EDITORS John D. Anderson Albert H. Stevenson Robert C. North VanVechten Trumbull M. Bedell S. R. Cohen R. Doolittle F. Feldman Wallace T. Foote Sophomore Board Assistant Edito1-s W. Ferguson F. Gage C. Garrison G. Haskell W. Horstmann R. Passenger R. Snyder N. Stewart Issue Editor .......... Albert H. Stevenson Assistant Issue Editors W. Horstman C. Garrison Reporte1-s Oontributing to Tllis Issue N. Stewart F. Gage H. Enzer S. Cohen R. Passenger R. Doolittle R. Doig .J. Bungus Friday, February 1, 1935 TERRACE COUNCIL KEYS With the passing of the supervision of the Block 'U' Dinner from the hands of the Ter- race Council goes the last function of that organization, making it purely honorary. Three years ago this month the Tenace Council was swept from its throne and sup- planted by the Student Council in one of Lhe wisest moves ever made in student govem- ment on this campus. Each year a sum of approximately fifty dollars is spent by the Student Council to purchase keys for seven seniors who have been outstanding in extra-curricular activ- ities. With the limited .budget of $400 the Student Council could easily put that sum to better advantage. We compare the Terrace Council in its field to Phi Beta Kappa in. its field, and to Sigma Xi in its own field. Seniors who excel in their academic work and are elected to membership in either Phi Beta Kappa or Sigma Xi are expected to provide their own keys if they wish to wear them. Yet we dig down into our own pockets and pay a tax, part of which is devoted to purchase expen- sive channs for the Terrace Councilmen, most of whom have {in the past as well as in the present) done more in the field of ath- letics than they have in the field of all other extra-curricular activities put together. No longer is the distincti(}n of a Terrace Council key gaped at in awe by the remain,. der of the student body. rrhe intrinsic value of membership in the honorary senior society passes after Moving-Up Day. There was a time at Union College when for days before the traditional moving-up rites, the general subject of conversation the campus over was, \Who will be tapped for the Terrace Coun- cil?\ Certainly there could be no higher campus distinction than membership in either Phi Beta Kappa or Sigma Xi. If these organiza- tions feel that their members should pur- chase their own awards, why should we pur- chase expensive keys for the Terrace Coun- cihnen? .. , THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1935 DUTY OF THE FACULTY A cmnplaint was recently raised by a member of the faculty that there is not suffi- cient spirit among the alumni to g·ive satis- THE COLLEGE WORLD By FRED FELDMAN AROUND THE WORLD · By RICHARD SNYDER College students are wonderfully pire State building, beaa1,1se the' As Parliament reconvenes again factory support to the activities of the col- fair and open-minded-because, of story will be in the tabloids in the in London, David Lloyd G'eorge 1 I I t ff h l t . , course, in the process of malting mormng, and you can read it and threatens to :r;nake a startling poli- ege. e wen OB to 0 er t e exp' ana lOll· ·them scholat·s and philosophers and say to yourself that you saw them tical comeback as the leader of that Union CoHel!e is not sold well enough scientists and 'blue stockings, the die. And you can be impressed ,England's \New Deal\. 'The lot has ~ ,college instills in them the yearn- by the r:ea:lity of life and you can fallen to this veteran of public af- to the SOBS of the COlleg·e While they are ing fol' truth, the longing for only tell yom neighbor of how you took fairs to be the voice of the nation's the most even•handed justice and part in one of the most newsy ac- chief discontent on the various underg-raduates. impartiality, the hleathless impa- cidents of the day. .measures that have been tal~:en, ot· tience to see both sides of a ques- are about to be taken by the pres- We doubt that the situation is any more tion, and judge disinterestedly and o----•o ·ent government for recovery in · brilliantly. Their education has England. alarming- than on any other campus in .taught them to listen willingly and Then, as several thinkers have * * * f I apprehendingly and profoundly to, pointed out, \the chance to die for U S h Union's class. We do, however, eel that t 1e other men's viewpoints, then see · ruguay, out .America's small- how those opinions ,compare with a supposed 'high cause, represents est ,republic, attempted a revolt college is not sold well enough to the under- their own, then modify their own for many the best opportunity life against the dictation of their presi- Th . l l f I so as to conform to the truths and offers for spiritual liberation. ln dent, ,Gabriel Terra,, and were re- graduates. at IS w 1ere t 1e acu ty can 'to the profundity of the wisdom hib suffering and death the warrior warded with the disciplinary efforts l d h 1 . h d Th d . 'st t' a 1d of the other man, and then to look and the soldier paradoxically proves o_f .the army who suppressed' the .up- en a e ping an . e a n11111 · ra 1011 I · gloriously and ,radiantly at the h1m.;elf the best master of the art nsmg. . of living,\ For a glorious light, will ., * * the extra-curriculal' activities do their pm·ts world and finally timidly suggest be in their eyes, and they shall their own ideas. The Reichstag was not convoked but thel ·.e 1\s no conspl\cuotlS atten1,pt made l,y see their soul in loftiness halo- ye·t d b th 1 !J crowned and the bullets will ,make s er ay Y ' e usua: laudatory th f It t h · th\ k th th o---o them scream and the beautiful speech reviewing the past two . e aCU y 0 S are 111 IS WOl' 0 · er an peace of spiritual contentment shall· years. Reich Fuhrer Adolf Hitler f For four months of this year, the b h.as a_bandoned his ctistomary ora- a conscientious endeavor (:)ll the part 0 some college press has been pounding at ' e their.s and the dirt and the rats. t f and the muck and no women, but JOn m avor of explaining to the h . the strongholds of war. Fo1· four people the future pol' · f th l 'llStl·uctors and professors to ma,]'e t el·r they will have the suprem,e ;oy of · · lcles 0 e ' month:::;, editorials have appeared in ' Nazis Mt'n!·stei· of Prop d D having served. · · agan a r. courses as interesting as possible. , school papers vowing an eternal Paul Joseph Gobbels said in com- vow that the intelligent, clear-head- menting on this action, \The anni• St d t . th A · ll ed, farsighted, discerning college o---o , versary of the success of the Na- U en S 111 . e met'lCan CO . eg-e are prone student will not ben a patched knee tiona:! Socialist Revolution is no at the th 0 e Of M 'II t b And war \would ,prevent the mon- · f to be impatient in rel!ard to ~reneral colleg·e r n , ars, WI no · ow ,occaswn or a gay festival.\ ~ ~ to the ravagings of kings and die- ey we have spent on armanments work. To those who are too lazy to parti- tators who want only to play ping- from going to waste, and would a!- * * * pong with their subjects' lives. But so eventually destroy our civiliza- Japan threatens to add another cipate in extra-curricular work, the 1·.eal instead, with proud tears in shining tion and give those few who es- piece to the Manchukuo jig-saw eyes, will fight splendidly and caped a chance to start all over puzzle. Reports say that Japanese backbone of the colleg-e does not appear. if deathlessly for peace, dear, dear again and make this, a good world.\ troops are massed along the Chahar concord. As it is, two billon people have a boundary. This situation is defend- the members of the faculty get the urge to hard enough time keeping ahead ed by the explanation that the o---o of :a million billon insects. What troops were pursuing bandits who engage in extra-curricular work, there is a we would have to do, of course, is had invaded Manchuria, There is Some students, however, in the have the nat1'ons of the world un I f . ld t tl - some evidence that the bandits ar~re Ie open 0 rem. fairness of their minds and in the 1't t g've the' II d . t ~ e o 1 11' a an mven a were the soldiers of the provincial righteousness of their hearts, have mighty insect exterminator, then, governor. Some instructors are active as facuJty ad- taken it upon themselves to present go to war, kill themselves, and * * .. · t · d d t · the case for war, for war is the leave the Einsteins and the Edisons VLSers 0 variOUS Un ergra ua e orgamza- other side of the peace problem, and the Franklins and the Lincolns Observers in Washington point tions. Others go home when their classes and every sage man will look at to build up a new civilization. out that the administration's attack both sides of a question, and its on public utilities will take the are ov.er and they have completed their work all like a debate, only there's no 0 ___ 0 form of abolishment of the various in the library and in their offices. Little has judges, and war has its case any- · holding cGmpanies. The President way. It may seem to some that college is trying to drive a wedge between been reported to us about the activities of 0 , ___ 0 students are only Horati() Alger these holding companies (character- faculty advisers to individual students. Most heroes struggling with luck and ized by the Insull empire) and the War will, for- example, give to the pluak against a hostile, powerful, operating companies. of them merely assist their advisees in the dusty participants the desirable derisive foe, the men who control ;;=============~ task of choosing courses and making neces- satisfaction of having played a the waring and the peace of the II ~ small part in probably the most world. Some may chaff them and PUNCTILIO sary adjustments. significant experience of generation. not tal'e them seriously. But Tim It makes you a much more inte- the Bootblack and Jack the Ped- !!;;;;=============! Fireside chats between students and mem- grated individual to have seen Jen- dler sometimes win out against the bers of the faculty can do much to mould a nie and Oboe jump hand in hand trials of this wicked world even from the thirtieth floor of the Em- outside the Alger stories. better feeling toward the college. We feel we are correct in assuming that the initiative should come from the faculty in this respect II The Grab Bag II The campus is a democratic community- '-;;;===========....!.~ Editor, The Concordiensis: _ One of the columns which appear- let's see some promotion of good will that ed in the last issue of the Concor- . , . We usually find it profitable to d' · t · d h' h Wl .ll reach even the lazy stud.ent who is not h JensJs con aJne a poem w Ic was glance over the audience w en- intended to lead the student body counted upon to be a loyal alumnus! ever something of note is underway to believe that the Garnet Goblins, TRIUMPH ()I<' NATIONALISM The decision of the Senate to stay out of the World Court can be interp1·eted as a tri- umph for nationalism, one which should please so astute a journalist as William Ran- dolph Hearst. Yet, the nanow margin of the vote is indicative of a changing- feeling· in this country in reg-ard to the issue of na- tionalism versus internationalism. on the platform. Generally it is Union College's dance orchestra, amusing, but last Friday in Chapel had refused to play for certain col- food for thought was forthcoming. lege functions. .As manager of the In the Chancel was Guy Tugwell; Garnet Goblins, I feel it my duty in the firo;t t·ow balcony strange to refute the implications of this faces-faces from the Schenectady poem, as they are entirely false. Collegiate Center, depression col- The Garnet Goblins have never lege conducted in the late after- refu~ed to appear at a college affair noons at N. T. H. S. Many of these when requested to do so, and are were from Albany; had no classes playing for the Glee Club on all until three in the afternoon; had their trips and concerts this year, come over at ten A. M. to hear a having sacrificed outside engage- Spencer lecturer--proof that stu- ments and pay to do this. A talk dents denied the privelege of these with Don Hawkes, manager of the excellent discussions will sacrifice Glee Club, or those in charge of the to get them, and a slap in the face Block u dinner, would have made to Union men who will not walk clear the fact that when asked we five hundred feet to a most valu- have been only too glad to accomo- able part of their education-a date. Spencer lecture or Forum. There is nothing personal in this Last week saw the exposure of as pretty a little legitimate racket as ever came over the road. News magazine Time gave away the in- side on that plug which Philip Mor- ris has been getting so consistently in our little newssheet. Four high pressure Princeton men organized to sell moulded campus opinion to national advertisers. Unale Philip took them up and they acquired agents in 39 eastern colleges. The idea was to talk up the fags and reward virtue with \flat fifties\. The agents were respected men and usually on the college paper. And soon the Princetonians were cashing in at $400 per month. They got new accounts and much criti- cism. The service is now indicted as having conducted Spurious polls. I think that the Concordiensis has shown fine spirit in giving away this free advertising and that a gentle placing of the nose in dose proximity to the thumb is due those ardent pluggers, Es, Es, & Bee, * * * Thanks to Life for a most apt definition, to wit: A demijohn is a small bathroom .... I've my fingers crossed against the censor. protest, but the men who comprise the Garnet Goblins deeply resent * * \' The United States has interests in almost * . , . Cast from a standard form are every nation in the world. Few, if any, commentator on every publicatron d · 1, f 1 ld 'd who aan decipher the weekly book emocrac1es can ooast o sue 1 wor -Wl e reviews has discussed Gertrude interests. In the western hemisphere we un- Stein. This is a comment to end comments; probably will be in that doubtedly stand at the top of all nations, respect as successful as the last considered g·enerally. However, there are two war. If she merits the oblivion you so blithely prophesy, then by big g-aps between us and the rest of the lead- all that is holy iet her have it. One in!! nations of the world. The issue of en- stein only interests college students. ~ and it's first name is not Gertrude. trance to the World Comt is intended to close those gaps, and to bring about better protee- tion of American interests. abroad. If we are to achieve the Rousseauian ideal o{world-wide democracy, the issue to be con- cerned with seriously is that of international- ism. Tl'Ue, there are European nations with whom it would be undesirable to have fur- ther connections because of the deplorabl.e situations existing in them. Our diplomatie relations with European governments are sufficient to many who are in favor of inter- nationalism. Had the necessary steps been taken to pave the way to our entrance to the World Court, the chances are that Article 16 of the Covenant of the League of Nations would be changed to permit our entrance to t4_e League. In that event, the path would be opened and it is more than likely that the new isHue would confront us. World Court? Yes, Mr. Hearst and y(}U other nationalists. League of Nations? No! * * * ..• Futile hope wells within me that Mr. Hoadley may see fit to insert in the budget a provision for buying grease-goose, axle, or bear. Nice, slippery grease wherewith to coat the Chapel floor in order that the rubber-squeakers may not vie with the speaker for first place. We classify them with the White House starlings. * * , , . Recent editorial comment in the Concordy refers to the fact that the Glee Club gives the impression of a group of \hicks\ by appearing at concerts arrayed in tuxedos in- stead of tails. No longer will Union turn out a hick club, vote having been taken favoring tails from now on. That is a real asset to the Club and to the college, but there is one fact that we still must not lose sight of. Dressing a hick in tails noes not automatically make him an old continental. * * . . • So we leave you. All has been well this. week, save that we notice that the burlap pants are falling off one of the shrubs that grace the chapel steps. GEEBEE the intimation that they are not It seems to be a part of the col- doing their part toward college ac- umnar esprit de corps to have a tivities, and they are to a man of corps of operatives who bring you the opinion that an apology is now those little tidbits of offal which in order. Damaging publicity, when pass for cleverness. However, I absolutely unwarranted, has no have never been able to secure such place in the columns in The Con- services until last week, when I cordiensis. .amassed one whole operative. Sorry, Yours very truly, HARRY M. BAKER, Manager, The Garnet Goblins Notes On Our Contemporaries Profs •rake Notice The college paper at Kansas State runs a black list mentioning the professors who have inspira- tions after the dismissa:l bell. * * * Imagine That A sign posted in the girls' dormi- tory at Radcliffe college read: \If you need a man after ten o'clock call the janitor.\ * * * Harvard Wins A recent survey shows that there are more Harvard men in nudist colonies than from all the other colleges put together. $ * • Polishing the Apple Under a novel system at Antloch college, the students grade the pro- fessors. The system is said to de- velop greater co-operation between student and faculty . . you give me an A and I'll give you an A. * * * Wh)f work'? Students at the University of Missouri ma>y now take out insur- ance against flunking. If a student flunks the ()Ompany gives him, enough to pay his way through summe1• session. but all he had to say was that he was not playing, \The Man On the Flying Trapeze\ on the chapel chimes last Friday. The piece in doubt was Williams' Alma Mater, \The Mountains.\ Hope the smooth- ies won't burn at the sacrilege, * * * Jolting: That sympathetic ap- plause in the movies when Bruno Hauptman told the news reel he didn't do it. Guilty or not, he will have the sob sisters moaning for him because he is the underdog. * * .. Frank Capra and W. S. Van Dyke the directors of last year's ace hits, \The Thin Man\ and \It Happened One Night\ are unique. Where most movie makers would be retch- ing about the Art of the cinema and how they had interpreted it, these two men are silent or merely say that the movies are an enter-· tainment business and that they are turning out pictures with that in mind. I opine that in reality the two of them are more of an influence, an artistic advance than they reaib:e. Already some critics are speaking of the Capra school of direction. J; B. D. American Coeds Co-educational colleges claim three-fourths of the women attend- ing institutions of higher learnfng in the United States.

again G'eorge poli- of lot has af- nation's various talcen, or the ptes- overy in small- a revolt presi- were l!e- efforts the .up- convoked laudatory two Hitler ora- to the of the Dr. in com- anni• the Na- is no another jig-saw Japanese Chahar defend- that the who There is bandits provincial point attack take the various President between and the of as racket as News the in- Mor- high organized to Philip acquired The fags and men paper. were They Criti- indicted ious polls. cordiensis in giving that in dose due those Bee. most apt is a fingers the col- have a bring you fa! whiCh I such , when I Sorry, that he On the chapel piece in Mater, smooth- ap-. Bruno reel he he will for derdog. VanDyke s ace hits, Happened Where be retch- cinema it, or merely an enter-· they are that in two of luence, an reaii?.e. speaking rectlon. J, B. D. claim attend- r learnfng THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1935 Three Garnet Teams To Engage In Six Week-end Encounters ~·---------------------- ~·---------~------ Techmen Have Won Four Out of Five Games; Lost Last Year M.lT. Here'Today; Play Varsity Sextet After a week and a half Lay-off Visitors Have Lost Six Games., the varsity basketball team will re- All B 0 p · new Its activities tomorrow night · Y ne- Otnt Scores; against S,tevens Tech at Hoboken, Garnet Lineup Intact New Jet•sey .. Stevens, defeated here last year by a score of 33 to 25, has. won four out of five games this ~I. I. !(', . season, with victories over Swarth- n \\'alLhers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kenny · more, Cathedral, Alumni and Hav- .·L\\' il L erford, and a defeat at the hands !'·\\\ ergman \ 00 .... 00 \.... ernan of Brooklyn Poly. The Haverford \ < >rton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stile:,; · overtime encounter was the first· c .Jei>kin\ oo • .. • ...... • • 00 .. • Cohei> contest won by the Tech team on !.!) Little ................ , ... I'arl<er an opponent's court in year years. ltl > Fox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I >ri~C'o!l · · After trailing by six points in the game here last year the 'Garnet · * * instituted a second half scoring· After tho admission in \The: rally, tallying 22 points, meanwhile Tech\ of the Massachusetts Insti-. limiting the visitors to 8 · ;Disch, tuto o£ Technology which stated now captain, was high for the Tech-· men with 8 .points, while Joe Mil-, that \the Tech pucksters hold high: ano, playing center, chalked up 12· hopes of beating the teams of both· for Union. Union and Hamilton, neither of Stevens' offensive this season is• built around Captain Franky Disch,' which is very good,\ the sextet: forward, and \Sal\ S~lvatori, guard. from M. I. T. will have its chance. to prove its worth today when it plays the Garnet team on the Mo-. hawk Golf C1ub at 2:30. Visitors Are Leading Team In East; M<mtrose Finalist In Invitation Tourney Intramural Basketball Leagues Schedule Tonight 7:30-Beto. Theta Pi vs. Alpha. The impressive· victory which the U n i on intercollegiate-intramural Delta Phi. 1>:30- Kappa Nu vs. Chi Psi. fencing team won over \Villiams Tomorrow la::;t week has bettered the Garnet 1:15 Kappru Sigma v::;. Chi Psi. team's chances in tomor·row's bouts 2:15--Theta Nu Epsilon vs. Dt>lta with the Hamilton squad in the Upsilon. 3:15--Neutrals vs. Phi Sigma Alumni Gymnasium at 2:30. The Delta. Olintonites have yet to .open their· 4:15 Phi Sigma Kuppa v:-l. Psi official fencing season, but already Upsilon. several of their swordsmen have. Monday 7:30-Kappa Sigma v::;. Delta Phi. competed in the Intc>rcollegiate In- _ B::lO --Kappa Alpha, vs. Beta vltation Foils Championship Tourn- Theta Pi. ament held in the New York Ath- ·--------------------------- lctic Club recent:!~'· . ::;howing against its more experi- Last year the Buff and Blue· enced rival. ,;e;med a 14 to 3 victory over the Tl10se colll!Jcting for C'niun be- Dutchmen, and with the veteran sides Morrison are: Fred Rogers in team which has met and defeated the sabre, Bob .Slobod in the foil, men from C. c. N. Y., Harvard, Dewey in the foil, Fred l<'eldman Columbia, Yale, Ar•my, and Navy, and Jcrrr Cohen in the epee, anti is favorite to win. tomorrow. Cap- Frank Champ in the foil. tain Bert Morrison, Union's three- -==============~ weapon man, will ·probably engage·.:- all of the Hamilton stars in his foiL sabre, a:nd epee ·bouts. His famous rival, Captain Montrose of Hamih ton, who reached the finals in the invitation tournament in New York, will be on hand to compete for his team. · JEWELRY~WATCHES Schenectady VVatch Hospital EXPERT WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING Salvatori is high scorer, averaging over ten points a game. At center. is Jack Deppeler, who is chiefly a defensive player. In the other for- ward berth is little \Whitey\ Daume, who is the possessor of an excellent pop-shot eye. Ken Gil- christ is the second guard. Chirko, Young, Brundage and D'Masi are the reserve forwards, Relyea and Rickez·ic·k, centers and Piercy, sub- stitute guard. Like Union Stevens employs the fast offensive break and the man-to-man defensive. The visitors, who arrived in Sche- nectady this morning and who will leave tomorrow, are a veteran .group of players. Despite their six losses so far this season, the M. I. T. sextet have given everyone of their .opponents some really competitive games. Army bal'ely nosed out the Engineers in their most recent con- test, 1 to 0, while every other ga:me has been lost by only one point. (Ja.ptain Ray 1\'IcDowell, left and J()e Milano, center, forwards, a1·e the two leading point-getters on Coach Nels Nitchman's, rig'ltt. Garnet basketball team, whicl1 is enjoying a most suooessful season with six victories out of eight starts. All Work Done on Premises at HECKMAN'S JEWELRY STORE The Hamilton fencers, who con-· sist only of juniors and sPniors with two and three years experi-· ence, are representing a major· sport team. Despite the fact that fencing at Union is only an intra- mural activity conducted on an in- tercollegiate basis. the Garnet team· !l03 State st., Schenectady, N. Y. expects to make a much improved OUTING CLUB NOTICE showin~;;. Coach Nels Nitchman of the Dutchmen will probably start his usual regular combination of Cap- tain Ray MacDowell and Joe Mil- ano, forwards, Van Waldron, cen- ter, and Jack Moffett and Ralph Semerad, guards. \Jiggs\ Rotunda, Bill Brandow, and Ken Brown will also be available. It is possible that Bud Nichols, who has been practicing with the team during the past week, may also make the trip. The Garnet lineup will probably remain the same as the one used against the Army. Captain Bill Jenkins, diminutive, but ever-alert wing, will again be shifted to cen- ter, while Hugo Bergman will move to Jenkins' former post. \Doc\ Or- ton, who played well on the defen- sive for Union last Saturday and who was probably the fastest man on the ice against Army, will start in the right wing position. A. P. Walthers will guard the Dutch· men's cage, and Phil Little and Austin Fox will play on the defen- sive for the home team. The Union apares will be: Dave Becker, John ff:mans, Bob Warner, and Harry Summer hayes. Frosh Hoopmen To Meet N ott Terrace Favo1·ed to Beat High .School Five, Which Has Mediocre Record This Season Any students desiring to go ski- ing with the Outing Club Sunday afternoon shcmld get in touch with Walt Wllliams '35, or Robert North '36. CHARLES' Formerly ED'S The Official Union College Barber for the past 24 years. Ask any upper classmen, they !mow. 11 operators. Schenectady's greatest barber. SUPJ>ORT OUR ADVERTISERS! COR. STATE AND BROADWAY ---,0•---- Orange Mermen To Race Du 1 tchmen Powerful Symcuse Outfit To Make Debut; Mesick Champion Diver Syracuse University's swimming. ----01---- Frosh Pucksters Ending Season Ag·ainst Clinton Hi team, will threaten the high hopes Tomorrow afte.xoon at 2:30 o'clock of the Garnet swimmers tomorrow on the Mohawk Golf Club rink the afternoon when the two squads Union freshman hockey team will meet in the Foote Pool, Although attempt to score its second and last the Orange team makes its debute victory of the season when it meets against the Dutchmen, the fact that the Clinton Central High School Union has the jump on the visitors d f does not minimize the visitor's team. Concluding a sche ule o chances. four contests, the yearling sextet The Garnet natatoi'S are earnest- will be doing its utmost tomorrow afternoon to avenge its two defeats ly considering holding on to victory, earlier In the season. Union's skillful-passing and ac- curate-shooting freshman basketball team will meet the first of its lo- ()al rivals tomorrow night when it plays the N ott Terrace High School five on the Alumni gymnasium court at 8:00 o'clock. Regardless of the mediocre record of the Terrace team this season, the game is ex- pected to be a colorful, if not a fast one. Be Good to Yourself Get a Soda, Sundae or a Free-ze at BRANDHORST PHARMADY \On the Corner\ Union St. and Gillespie Edw. H. ·:Brandhorst, Reg. Phar. Leland BrandlicHst, Reg.' Pllar. PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. FERRY STREET Schenectady. N. Y. for the defeat of R. P. I. last week has once more brought hopes to The Clinton s·chool, reputed to be Union in the swimming events. one of the strongest teams in the Syracuse, with its decided advan- vicinity of Hamilton College, will tage in having a veteran team, will give the less experienced Garnet have to cleave the water pretty fast frosh perhaps its hardest battle this The Garnet yearlings ha.ve been inactive since they swamped the R. P. I. cubs on the Union court two weeks ago, while the high school boys have been playing out their heavy schedule during that time, losing most of their games. Last night the Nott T'errace quintet en- gaged the Troy High School basket- eers, and it will probably be a pret- ty tired team the Dutchmen will engage. The men who will play for Union ~;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;~;;;;~;;;;;;;;~ tomorrow are: Phil Duchscherer, ai Ted l'odbiels·ki, Grant Smith, John- ny Schultz, Harold Schultz, Herm Greulick, Art Breymaier, Viltcent tomorrow to come out ahead of the year. . determined Dutchmen. The Albany Academy and the Bill Keens will probably have Lenox School sextets have scored much more work on his hands wins over the frosh, while the Wil- than anyone else, for he will have liston Academy succumbed to the the difficult job of besting little yearlings. The line-up for the Gar- Johnny Mesick, diving star of the net will be; Charlie Little and John Orange, who carries a winning Wod in the defense positions; Fritz streak of ten first places. Some of Hawley at center; Harrison Beale Mesick's conquests have been over and Jim Bond in the forward pas- Mickey Riley and Pete Desjardines, itions; and Tom Ward in the Olympic diving stars. goalie's cage. The spares are: Gil Smith, Jerry Spellman, Bill Hawkes, Charlie McCarthy, and Van Ladd. It is the hope of many that the marhling period which ended today will not ~ffe<;~t the eligibility of the men who are expected to partici- pate in tomorrow's game. probably consist of Buell, Lasky, Barton, Justo, Wozniak, Sta1ewicz, Vacca, Krokosz; and Rosenblum, but in order to fiil up gaps made by graduation, many reserves will be u.sed, The Orange team, under the tute- Farrar, Bob Shepard, Art Brey- lage of Ted Webster, seems to be maier, and Howie Thompson. well-balanced. Captain Nieznalskf =;;;;=;;;;;;;;;;;~~~~~~;;;;;;~~=~;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;~ Is the ace breat-stroker · on the ~ team who will do more than just morally lead his team. The Ham- mer boys, Fred and Walt, who will probably compete in the dashes, will also be dangerous men for the Union squad. Union's entries will be: Carl Fael- ten and Maus Stearns in the dis- tance swims; Mal Griffing and Cap- tain Guy Griswold in the dashes; Ed Moulton and Russ Knox in the 150-yard backstroke; John argel'- singer and Chet Rhoades in the breast-stroke; Bill Keens and Roger Emerson in the dives; and Dick Kennedy, Moulton, Faelten, and Griswold in the relay. THE ACME BARBER SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS A PLEASURE 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS THE ANSWER fo your Saturday nigltt problem is THE SUPPER CLUB DANCING HOTEL VAN CURLER THE GARNET GOBLINS with SUSAN STROUGH Cover, Fifty Cents Service from the Tap Room Milk Cream Butter Eggs ·Cioverland Creamery Phone 2-4265 Ice Cream Cottage Cheese U:NION COLLEGE BOOK STO·RE Room '5' Administration Building College Seal Jewelry Fountain Pens Pennants Leather Goods OUR NEW LINE CIGARETTES and SMOKING TOBACCO Hours-8 :45 - 12 :()0, 1:15 - 5:00 I fashion Notes By Sweaters With A Pull Sleeveless sweaters, of the \V- neck type, are becoming incTeas- ingly popula1· with the well-dressed collegians, Co:m- ,1~. ', ,, ing in !!olors of . 1 1 1)··. • ~ 1 1 navy, wme, gray 1 1 1 1 \/ ~ ~~ ·•• and brown, they ~~ 1 1 \ 1 1 1\ \ 1 ~ ~ ·•• a r e exceedingly h 1 ~11 1 \> ~ t 1 1t.~ 1 fashionable in the 1\t: 1 • \• ~ ~ :! ~ ~ cable stitch. They ~ 1 1 G ~ ~ ~ d h a v e a natural 1 ~~ '1 '• ~ t~ 0' place in the ward- ~' 11 '' h '' ~ robe of today, :for Ill IIIII' 1111 they can correctly- replace the waist- coat for wear with a tweed suit. The fashions of 1934 are ex- tremely practical th1•oughout, and the low-cost variations in dress provided by the stylists, such as the sleeveless sweater, ma'ke it possible for the college man to h a v e a completely fashiona'ble wardrobe at the barest minim11m of expense. These \change-ofi's' also make it possible for hin\ to avoid the sameness of day-to-day attil'e that becomes so tedious and unpleasant. \ \Sr;Otchy\ Socks The English may be dicrtating just what is the correct style in bats this season, but the Scotch seem to be dom- inating t he re- mainder of t b e wardrobe. W it h the p la i d s and roughs predomin- ating in suit cloths, it is only natural that socks with many varia- tions of plaid de- signs should be ordered. The ar- gyle type plaids are the most fashionable a n d serviceable for campus wear. .As a pleasant variation from the plaid design, socks with a horizon· tal bar type of pattern have been created for the smart college ntan, Either of the two new designs will fit in with the new ensemble, and carry out tbe \rough\ idea com· pletely. They'll be especially snta:rt and practical during the cold days approaching. Don't miss on this l Can WeHelpP Questions concerning what is and what is not correct dress will be answered by the Colle· giate Digest f a s h i o n staff. Write now to: Fashio!l Ed· itor, Collegiate Digest, P. 0. Box 472, Madison, Wis.

Four Dr e Jesse Holmes In Sunday Chapel Swarthmm·e College ProfessOl' To Speal>. On Sunday Broadcast Dr. Jesse H. Holmes, professor of the history of religion and phil- osophy at Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa., wiU speak a.t the chapel services on Sunday. Dr. Holmes received his bachelor of science degree from the Univer- sity of Nebraska in 1884, and his doctorate of philosophy from Johns Hopkins in 1890. In 1899 he was a special student at Oxford Univer- sity. He has been -a tea-cher in the Friends Select Sshool, and acted a,; collector of botanical specimens for the U. S. Herbarium of the Depart- ment of Agriculture. In 1893 he be- came a teacher at the George School, in Bucks County, Pennsyl- vania, and Cb few years later left to become professor of the history at religion and philosophy at Swarth- more, which position he still occu- pies. Especially active in the Sunday School wot·k of the Society of Friends, he was commissioner for their relief worlL in Europe in 1920. From 1915 to 1927 Dr. Holmes served as president of the National Federation of Religious Liberals, and in 1932 ran for Congress on the Socialist ticket. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa. Dr. Holmes is the author of sev- eral courses of lessons on the Old and New Testaments and on church history for the Friends' Sunday Schools. ---o---- Journalists- (Continued from Page 1) for you, and you won't sell enough papers to pay your expenses. In order to understand .the theory of the American government, the most serious, calm, persistent study should be given to the Constitution of the United States. VVhat books ought you to read? • • . The most useful, the one whose knowledge is most effective, is the Bible. I am considering it now not as a religious book, but as a man- ual of utility, of professional prep- aration, and professional use for a journalist. There is no book like the Bible. Everybody who is going to prac- tice the newspaper profession ought to know Shakespeare. He is the chief master of English speech. He is the head of English literature. Considered as a writer, considered as a poet, considered as a philoso- pher, I do not know another who can be named with him. Do not take any model. Every man has his own natural style, and the thing to do is to develop it into simplicity and clearness. When we think of such a genius as the late Horace Greely our minds are filled with admiration. He was· a man of immense ability and of the power of expression, of telling what he knew, in a delightfully pie- turesque, humorous way. He had no great advantages of education. This great and brilliant journalist had to pick up his education as he went along, reading in the Win!er evenings by the firelight, and never wasting a chance of learning some- thing. -----0----' Tickets fm· Concert of Ci\'ic Symphony Orchestra on Sale Ticl<Pl.-; atr on salP h tiH' Nt•wf But enu on tlw sn·ond tloot of Silli- ruan Ha:l fot· the con• ert bv the Civic Symphony Orch<~tra of -~khe nectady which is schl'dUINl f01 Tuesday night at the Mont Pleas- ant High School. The orchestra consists of sixty pieces and is di- rected by Mr. Kenneth Kelley. The price has been set at 50c for gen- eral admission and one dollar for reserved seats. The concert will be- gin at 8:30 o'clock. Tickets are also being sold for a second concert which will be held sometime in May. This makes it possible for the committee in cha-rge to sell reserved seat tickets for both concerts for $1.50. The con- certs are being sponsored by the Cultural Life Committee of the Chamber of Commerce. ---- 0·--. Di~catdcd Noh·e Dame Univen;ity football suits ate used by the Black Sheep football team at Sing Sing prison. Call Ball For better and quicker Service in Clothes Cleaning and Shoe Rebuild- ing-at no higher cost than else- where. ONE DAY SERVICE ANY DAY THE CONOORDIENSLS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1935 Dr. Myers Begins Duties· Altruism Is Essential For In Language Department Real Success in Medicine· Larrabee- ··Outing Club Enthusiasts Brave Sub-Ze1·o W eathe1· (Continued f-rom Page 1) Dr. Roland M. Mye~·s will take With many negative a11guments capable of' advanced intellectual Braving a temperature of 13 de- over his duties in the French de- presenting themselves to pre-n:tedi- grees below zero and a hard icy pactment today, as acting px,ofessor cal student· who ask \Why- stllcl.y achievements.\ g!llle, a group of the most hardened of Modern Languages. He will con- medicine?\ the best answer to tile· Professor Larrabee cited the ex-· members of the Bnion Outing ·Club duct the French classes of Mt'. Rob- question lies a•lmost entirely within: amples of some of the most striking spent :Sunday afternoon skiing on• ert W. Crowell, associate professor 'the individual, asserted Hm\vey P.. . h the Rotterdam trails of the Sche- of French and German, and the ·Groesbeck, '35, who spoke in da1ly ladies of learning m the fifteent nectacfy W:inter Sports· Club. French 31 class of :Mr. Fernand ·'assembly Tuesday on the r.nedica.J and sixteenth. centuries in England,. Jagu. This will leave Mr. Crowell career. \If the pre-med is able to: pointing out that over 90 per cent Arriving at Rotterdam in the col- .ft·ee to teach the GeriUan classes overlook without hesitation the con-' lege's fresh air track, the winter of them were queen, duchesses, or· sports enthusiasts encountered a of the late Dr. Barnes. .sidered: advantages of his life's h k Dr. Myers is a graduate of Dart- work, then most .propably he should, ladies of the nobility. Theit· learn- wind sweeping down the Mo aw mouth College and 1 ,eceived his study medicine.\ ing depended almost entirely on the. vailey, which penetrated even their thickest garments. After ascending Doctors Degree at John Hopkins Groesbeck enumerated fOUl' rnain .advanced opinions of a few heads. the \S\ tr!llil, they came to the prac- University while he was a graduate reasons advanced by the -a.vcrage: of families, and was .purely for' tice slopes- where a large group of stu~e?t there ~rom 1928 to 1933~ In student for not studying medicine.· home consumption. They were ob-. skiers were practicing stemming, a. dd1t10n to th.ls wo. rl' he has stud-. 'The very· rapid over-cro:wd.ing of. t · d th th t · t h' h d t th U t f N d jects of adulation, flattery, and ex- urnmg, an e o er · WlS s w lc Ie a e mverst Y o ancy an the field of medicine is a .prirnary make up the art of skiing. Remain- at the Sorbonne in France. difficulty that presents a serious cessive praise as miracles and nine- ing in the vicinity in order to gain Among the various honors that obstacle to the earnest pre-med. day wonders, rather than because: some practice for themselves, the h~ has received is t?e James B._ \Recent figures show an average of. they had achieved anything capable club attempted trails which were Rtchardson Fellowship at J?art- approximately 4;500 new students of withstanding masculine competi- difficult enough to make the vet· mouth Coll~ge and ~scholarship at graduating each year, for wborn an tion. Gradually, however,. feminine erans spilL John Hopk. ms. He Is. a. member o.f adequate practice must be found, as · th th A A t f U learning came out mto e open; Having become engrossed hi the e . meriCan ssocta ·1on o · m- compared to the avet'B.ge figure of b d d t p f d f th Mod women began to pu !ish, an un er skiing, the members forgot the verst Y ro essors a!! . 0 e · - 3;000 doctors retiring or dyiD.g each their QoWn names, some to sell their force of the sub-zero blasts. After e. rn Language Assoctatton of Amer-_ yeat\ a v_ery amazing surplus of h d h · wares, ot ens to a vance unam- spending· !!!pproximately three hours tea. about 1 500 per ·year\ t · B t t'l 1 t · th Previous to his atTival at Union ' · anan causes. u un 1 a e tn e on the trails, the club returned in ORGAN RECJITAL I. Piece Heroique ......... . . . . . . . . ... . . . CesarFranck H. Fantasie in C Major HI. Prelude to \L'Apl·es-Midi D'Un Faune\ ......... . ......... Claude· :Debussy Prelude to \La: Dainoiselle Elue\ La Cathedrale Ehgloutie IV. Ballet La Fille aux Cheveux de Lin Andante fr{)m Stl'ing Quar- tet the same fresh air truck to the warmth of fraternity houses and. dormitories. If there is snow, aa. i,nformal gr<>up will again journey to the Rotterdam ski trails Sunday after- noon in order to gain the benefit of the winter sports while a,vaUable. Any students interested may call Robert North, who is in charge of the expedition. College, he was an instructor in Stram on Health nineteenth century, learned ladies. French at John Hopkins, and an• The three other reasons were: were still isolated phenomena, and ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:=;~ assistant professor of French at the renumeration from a medical the rest of the world remained an- Washington and Lee University. careet· is not quite as .great as is convinced they had intellectllal ca- ---o--- supposed; the strain on the .physi- pacdities ~ully equtal, ihn almfost all Two Books Electrical Engineering Presented' to Kelsey cian's health has lowered the d·eath flel s of mquiry, 0 t ose Qo men. point definitely lower than i:hat of O•--- other professions; and the i:mpend· DR. FOX IS SPEAKER ing socialized or government con- trol of medicine will eliminate ·One A set of two volumes entitled ·of the doctor's bigger reasons for \Electrical Engineering\ was pre- entering the profession-that of he- sen ted to Richard Kelsey, '37, by ing his own boss. Eta Kappa Nu Tuesday morning, In order to study medicine one it was announced today by Chester \must have at least a very definite M. Rhoades, '35, president of the trait of altruism or love of human- honorary electrical engineering ity ... but much more one ·must fraternity. The award was made have a very great interest in toedi- in the first meeting of the class in cine, an interest which one n.ot only Elements of Electricity, taught by decidedly feels, but also an interest Dr. Sylvester Haefner. that will last in the face of many Kelsey stood highest in the class discouragements. of 1937 at the close of last year and \It is a generally accepted theory was therefore made the recipient that the main basis for happiness in of Eta Kappa Nu's annual award. one's life's work is interest, and if ----0>--- NOTICE it is true in any field or activity it is true in the field of medicine.\ The next meeting of the Foreign GARIS ADDRESSES ALUlllNI Policy Association, of which a num- ber of students are membet·s, will Dean Charles F. F. Garis s:poke be held Tuesday at 8:00 p. m. in the before the Albany Alumni Associa- Chancellor's Hall, Albany. The prin-~' tj.on at its regular luncheon rueeting ci:pal speaker will be Tatiana Tcher- Wednesday a.fternoon. Dean. Garis's navin, author of \Escape from the subject was \Recent Changes in Soviets.\ i Student Government.\ you're telling me they satisfY :2; • ~ :=:-··-:--:-·: ... ::-:-.· :-·-.--:-.:~::-.-:;:::-:;:·:::::·:·:::::-:-.;:•._._ ... :<·>.· li:-· .- ... •.· .... , .... _.;., ..•• - .• - ..... · ..... .:.· ...... ~.:.-.·~..:...-. - ··: ··,·~~·.:>·· ...• ·~ ... ·: ....... ~.;- ..... ·.:.-:.:,·.: • .;..· ... ·~· .... ~.· ·.· ..... ,,~.··.• .. •0•.·...-. .· .. ·-:········ MONDAY WEDNESDAY SATURDAY ANDRE LUCREZJA LILY KOSTELANETZ :BORI PONS 40 PJECE ORCHESTIIA XOSTELANE'l'Z ORCHESTRA .AND CHORUS • 9P.M. (E. s. '1'.)-COLUMBI.ANETWORK The Washington Association of New Jersey announced that Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox will be the speaker at the annual luncheon and meet- ing which is held in. Washington's headquarters on February 22 of each year. NO \A\ THIS TIME A freshman writing- his first ex- amina:tion at Plinceotn found on the last page of his blue book, \I hereby- swear I have not received or given any ,assistance in writing this ex:amination. Signed.\ Being a conscientious boy he ap- pr·oached the instructor, a worldly man, somewhat timidly, a-nd ex- plained that he hesitated to sign because the night before he prayed . to God for assistance. The ins.tructor glanced over the boy's paper superficially, a.s only an instructor can, and then sa·id, \My boy, you can safely sign the VOW-\ COME IN AND SEE US Headquarters for Men's Wear of the Better Grade Stetson Hats Penn~Craft Hats Manhattan Shirts Cortley Shirts lnterwo\/en Hose Nicklas Clothes L. F. NICKLAS, INC. 138 JAY STREET Gazette Press ® 1935, LIGGETT & MvBRS ToBAcco Co •

;;; L t·Franck ·s-Midi :Debussy oiselle :>utie x de Lin ,g Quar- :k to the mses and. i,nformal :y to the day after- benefit of ~rvailable, may call charge of s '•., MCCoCo. r---~:rris .... 1 To Discuss I l Hist?·. ry Of . Hu~son Valley -~~~--._~~ Vol. LVIII., No. 33 ' I ' ·-I • UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1935 • Columbia ·rs La bora tory Players To Give \Clari\ I PRICE FIVE CENTS Columbia Players March. to. Discuss PI~ce Edgar S. Barney Named Secretary Glee Club Participat~.s Frederick Morris T G . p· , . ·Of Faith m Modern Life • In Boy Scouts' Benefit . . • • o tve ayne s Of .the Board of Trustees tn 1910 · To D1scu8s History 0 tt \ c} • '' Dr. John L, March, professor of Fifty members of the Union Col- Of H d v }} pere a, Rff psychology, will discuss \The Place lege Glee Club joined with five ·. . . U son a ey of Faith in Modern Lii\e\ in the sec- Edgar Starr Barney, Secretazy principal, of the Hebrew Techno!- other local musical and dvamatic end of the sel'ies of forums span- of the Board of Trustees, was born ogy Institute in Brooklyn, and re- organizations in a benefit enter- Part of Pl·oduction Wtitten sored by the college Christian Asso- in Worcester, N. Y. in 1861, the son ceived the hon()rary degree of M.A. tainment Saturday night in the cia:tion. The p!•ogram will be held of Ansyl Barney, He received his from Union College. From 1892 un- Mont Pleasant High School audi- While EnTolled as Student in the Old Chapel at 8 o'clock Wed- secondary education at the Wor- til 1910 he was Secretary of the Un- torium. Third Spencer Lecturer To Deal With Geolcgical Origins Friday Under Eliphalet Nott .. nesday night. In treating his sub- cester Union School and entered ion College Alumni Association of The singing of three choral so- ject Dr. March will discuss the ,psy- Union in the class of 1884. In col- New York and was alumni trustee. cieties: the Glee Club, the Shubert Plaudits F1·om London London Stage Lauds Operetta For Which Payne Wrote 'Home Sweet Home' The internatio1;1ally famous Col- umbio Laboratory Players of New York will be present on the campus February 16 when they will give two performances of John Howard Payne's operetta, \Clari or Maid of Milan\ at the Mountebanks Thea- tre. The Mountebanks are pre.par- ing to stage this play which was the first American production to be presented abroad in 1&23 when it was given in .a performance in Lon- don. Home Sweet Home Is Hit Song Payne's \Clari\ is of special inter- est to students of Union College, for the \hit song\ of the operetta is \Home Sweet Home\ which was written by Payne during his years at Union. Manuscripts which have been found recently indicate that Payne worked on this poem at Un- ion when he was a student under the personal charge of the great Eliphalet Nott. The young poet was active not only in dramatics at college but also was· engaged in publishing a weekly newspaper in the city. At college he wrote, acted, and directed his own plays. His fe- male characterizations oftentimes aroused the jealousy of the women in the audience, it is said, and when he took male roles, he likewise roused the envy of men. New York Lauds !'layers The Columbia Laboratory Play- er's revival of \Clari\ received the pla~dits not only of the New York theatre critics but also of the var- ious theatrwa.l magazines and even of the London Stage. Tickets for the performances are on sale at the Union College news bureau. All seats will be reserved. Milton M. Enzer( graduate manager of the Mountebanks is now arrang- ing to house the company of 20 men and women in the Players' cast among the faculty and towns- people. Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox will give a buffet supper for the com- pany at the president's house. Comptroller Anno u n c e s Tuition, Student Tax Due Payment of tuition, student fees, repeated course fees and dormitory rent is due this week at the Comp- troller's office. Freshmm1 and soph- omore :paymens will be accepted on Tues<lay and Wednesday, junior and senior payments ':J.'hursday and Fri- day. The hours will be 9-11 :30 a. m. and 1-4:30 p. m. on all these days. The tuition which is due amounts to $175 and the student tax is $19.00. chology of faith and will show how lege he was active in the Adelphic f·rom 1897 to 1901. ll'ive years later Club, and the Thursday Musical the oz·igin of faith and the import- Literary .Society but found ·his chief he was appointed life trustee of the Club was the feature of the show, ance ot faith to human life has al- interest in the sciences and in en- college, and in 1904 received the• the proceeds of which went to de- ways depended on the psyc;ho- gineering. The year before his ·honorary degree of Sc. D. from Un- fray the construction expenses of logical reactions of the human graduation he accepted a position ion. He became Secretary of the the Lewis R. Rogers Memorial Dam mind. as clerk With the Hudson River Board of Trustees in 1909 and has at Boyhaven, summer camp of the Well Trained In Field Dr. Morris Was Geologist In Asia for American Museum Of Natural History D M 1 . 11 1 d\ th Day ·Line. He graduated from col- continued in that office to the pre- local Boy Scouts. The WGY Player:s r. arc 1 WI a so lSCuss e lege wt'th the degrees of A B and sent day d · c· · important r·elation of faith ·to mod- · · • · D B · d G ·al' an the Schenectady I VIC Players C. E. and became an instructor of r arney was ma e ener bo h d h 1 d ern science and will endeavor to English and Mathematics in the Pass~nger Agent of the Hudson 1 \ bpr:~e~te s ort p aJ~' ~~ : show how faith has caused the fur- Gramercy Park School in. New River Day Line in 1921 after the· ~u Y. ~ °K s~out~, a~. ~~ ~n · therance of many experiments that York City. Two years later he mar- death of the former indumbent of ~us;c Y t ~ dcotla h tg c 001 Frida:y evening, Professo 1 · Fred- ~ave r~sult~d ~n .val:~le ~d~itions ried Clara E. Mills. that office the pvevious year. I{e is or~h~s Cfter~ou~\u~ ~~!nte; e:i~~r~~~ erick K. Morris of the Geology De- 0 ~an s ne s 01 e 0 no~ e ge. . In 1887 he was promoted to the a charter me~ber o~ the Ne~ York spirited \Ole King Cole\ after partment, Massachusetts Institute Dt.. March also spoke m one ot position of auditor of the Hudson State Geologw SoCiety, a hfe fel- which they sang \On Great Lone of Technology, will present the the forums of last year when he .River Day Line. The same year low of the Ame1·ican Geological So- Hills\ The traditional \Hoodah third Spencet· Lecture in the Old too~ ~s ~.is topic \The Evolution ot he left the Gramercy Park School ciety, and ~ rnemb_er of the New Day\ arranged by Marshall Bar- ·Chapel on \A Billion Years in the Rellgwn. to become instructor, and later York Electncal Soc1ety. tholemew was roundly applauded Hudson Valley.\ The talk, which by the audience, and the club fin- will be illustrated by slides, will be- Al • G•ft F d. ished with two college favor·ites, the gin at eight o'clock. ·.nmni 1 un Campus FERA Men ~ill H 0 lm e s Discusses \Dutchmen's Song\ and \By the The Hudson Valley is a classic T t I I $100 ()00 S H lth f C t Light of the Moon\. region for the geologist. The Hel- • 0 a s ' . urvey ea 0 I y F t r f M ki. d' All three choruses under the lead- derbergs with their thick limestone ll ll e 0 an n ershi:p of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, beds abounding in fossils have Money Used in New Buildings And_Other Improvements About Campus Since the system of financing the College by alumni gift funds was originated in 1926, $100,000 has been contributed by 4,346 members of the alumni, Graduate Council records show. Beeauso o:l this fund, Union Col- lege has been able to erect new modern buildings, repair old ones, improve the college campus, and creato student loans and scholar- ships. The fund has caused the a:ddition of the Melius greenhouse, the Brownell and Class of 1884 gates, the alumni Gymnasium, the new lighting system, improvements of the athletic fields and tennis courts, and has given to the librar-y hundreds of boolrs. Besides all these improvements, $13,833.50 has been contributed as f, loan fund, which permits hundreds of students to re- main at college. This money, as its name implies, is repayable, and is then collected by the college in ac- cm·dance with the terms of the loan after which it is made a part of a permanent Alumni Loan and Scholarship Fund in the hands of the college treasurer. $fl,898 Scholarships Increased Thus far this year, $6,898 has been contributed by 290 members of the alumni. This amount is to be used in malting a new garden fm• the president, refurnishing the office of the president and the s·ecretary, and for the purpose of decorating the Memorial Chapel. The major portion of the funds from the present time will be used for loans and scholarships if they a.re not designated for a certain purpose. Since the fund was first origin- <Continued on Page 4 l Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox has recently director of music, combined to sing been a Mecca for geologists a:nd completed arrangements with Mr. --- 1 t 1 · f Weed of the New York State De- the \Hallelujah Chorus\ from Han- pa eon o og1sts or more than a Declares Future Belongs To del's \Messiah\ as a finale to the hundred years, and the stmctural partment of Public Health whereby bl ff a number of college FERA workers Man for His Advancement evening's· entertainment. The vol- prok e~s oh ered by the disturbed ume and power of over 120 massed roc s tn t e valley are unrivaled. will be engaged in a: milk survey of Or Retrog1·ession voices made this famous number The men who have attempted to the city. A clause in the federal particularly impressive. unravel its secrets include; Amos legislation makes it possible for Eaton, who wrote the first text- this work to be undertaken by col- \Whether we shall sink back to boolr on geology in this country; lege students inasmuch as it is of Mountebanks May William w. Mather Of the New social benefit. Up till the present what our grandfathers or gr·eat- York State Museum and authority time this type of work has not been grandfathers have been, back to the Make Sprm• g Tour on the Taconic Mountains; followed attempted. inevitable forces .of the past which in late!\ years by C. D. Wallcott, di- The students engaged in the sur- k . rector of the un 1 ·ted States Geo- .11 1 f h ma e us do the same thmgs over vey w1 rna re a canvass o ornes logical Survey; T. N. Dale, member in va:l'ious districts of the city to and over again, or whether we shall Trip to Philadelphia Pending; of the U. s. Geological Survey; and find out the varieties of millt used, use the marvelous capacity of look- • p d . . h John u·. Clarke, who 1 ·s an .a·uthor- d d t d d d Plan Jomt ro uctwn Wit ..... con ense • evapora e an pow er- ing into the future, seeing things ity on the North American Devon- ed forms being included. Sk 1 'dmot·e 1\n May 1 ·an Per 1 ·od. Th FERA t t I as they should be, and b!'inging life e • a presen emp oys Dr. Morris has been connected about 110 students who are engaged into those visions depends on our- with the Massachusetts Institute of in various parts of the campus. The selves,\ decla.red Dr. Jesse H. The Mountebanks may revive Technology since 1927. He was geol- Mountebanlrs, News Bureau, Gr·ad- Holmes, professor of the history of Mrs. Centlivre's comedy, \A Bold agist with the third Asiatic Expedi- uate Council Office, the Library a:nd religion and philosophy at Swarth- Stroke For a Wife'' which was pre- tion of the American Museum of most of the departments in the dif- more College in his sermon Sunday sented last fall for a tour now be- Natural History when eggs of dino- ferent fields of study are using the morning at the Memorial Chapel ing arranged by Mr. Milton M. saurs were found; is the author of student workers. There is also a services. Enzer, graduate manager. He is numerous publications; and is a: special ground cr·ew, who help to '·The future belongs to man,\ said negotiating with an alumni com- member of the Explorers Club, keep the college paths free of snow- Dr. Holme.;, \and human beings are mittee in Philadelphia and with American Geographical Society, The mxaimum w01king time allow- .raw and green, living toward the others in the metr¢politan area for and the Geological Society of ed by the FERA legislation is 12 future ... but we are turning away a spring vacation tour for which America. Throughout his career, hom·s a month. from the great creative heredity there is a demand for the eight- he has been active as teacher, Jec- ----o---·· that rna:kes u:> humans. Looking eenth century comedy rather than turer, geographer, explorer, topo- Magazl .lle Conial.llS backward is going backward, but Ibsen's tragedy, \Ghosts.\ grapher, and research worker. the men who have made the wodd Whether or not the Mountebanks This lecture will be the first lee- A t • } B c f f • were those who looked forward and revive Mrs. Centlivre's comedy or ture on geology presented under r IC e y 0 In who actually brought to life the take Ibsen's \Ghosts\ on road tour the Ichabod Spencer Foundation. vision that was given them:· this spring, the Mountebanks have The Department of Geology at Treatise on \True And False Etymolog·ies\ Accepted By Publication Dr. Holmes asserted that man's definitely committed themselves to Union, which is now headed by Dr. superiority over every other form take \Ghosts\ to Skidmore on Edward S. C. Smith, was founded of life prevents him from doing as March 28. The Mountebanks may in 1873 by Professor Harrison E. his forebearers have done. \Even also sponsor the Omnibus Dramatic Webster, who later beca-me presi- some Iowe1· animals experiment\ in Society's production of either Maet- dent of the college in 18B8. the future, though they sacrifice erlinck's \Pelleas and Melisande\ themselves. It is man's divine right or Masefield's \Tragedy of Nan.\ to \live for an idea, .. and the value The Mountebanks are also plan- of life depends upon the charges he ning to give a production of Shake- makes. speare's \Twelfth Night,\ using \Scientists have outlined the fu- Skidmore girls in the cast. This ture fm· man.\ Dr. Holmes stated, production will take place May 10, \but scientists cannot tell us what 11 and 13 at Union, and May 17 and man may achteve, That comes from 18 at Skidmore. ---0--- Debaters Propose Change In Selection of Varsity The r?peated course fee is based ---o---- on $5 for each credit hour. Dormi- .Farrell Gives Pape1· On tory students owe one-qu:JJrter of One of the most interesting of the new magazines received by the college libra-ry recently is \Words.\ a monthly publication devoted to the \study of the origin, history, and etymology of English words.\ Of particular interest to the collegP is the fact that Dr. Harrison C. Coffin, prof~sor of Greek, is a con, tributi·ng editor on the editorial staff. God. Our guiding futUl·e has its Negotiations are now under way choices, and is not, as the scientist for a road performance at Glovers- wants, another past that can be ville under the auspices of the made out of t.he future. Gloversville Teachers Association. During the course of the Philo- mathean Society Meeting last night, the suggestion was made that the p!Psent policy of allowing as many debaters as possible to take part in the varsity encounters may be con- tributory to the apparent decrease of interest in debating on the cam\ pus. The suggestion implied that if a select few were to represent the college for the debates of an Defines Term the full year rental as wen as a $10 Formula App1·oximation damage deposit. For students paying tuition on the ins·tallment plan, the initial pay- ment will be at least $50. If a stu- dent has a. loan or scholarship, one- quarter of the cash balance will be required for the first payment. The usual charge of $5 is made for in- In the January issue, the third since the publication was first issued, Dr. Coffin has an illuniin- Dr. Holmes concluded his talk In addition, the Mountebanks are with these lines from Tennyson's planning to give performances at \Ulysses\; \Come my friends, 'tis preparatory schools which lie on not too late to seek a new world.'\ the route they may take for their stallment service. The bill forms which have been issued should be filled out and ac- cording to directions are to be pre- sented at the Comptroller's office when payment is made. All repeated course fees must be paid at this time and students are reminded that payments after the above dates are subject to the usual fine for la:te payment. ----01---- N ew Members of Faculty Take Charge This Week The two new members of the fac- ulty have arrived in Schenectady and are meeting their classes. Dr. Rowland Myers, acting assistant professm· of French, is teaching sections of French 1, French 2, French 2, French 11, a:nd French 31. Dr. J. George Lutz, instructor in chemistry, is teaching the sec- tions of Quantitative Analysis, until recently taught by Dr. Thomas A. Wilson; who resigned from the fac- ulty to accept a senio1• fellowship at the Mellon Institute in Pitts- burgh. Dr. Orin J. Farrell, assistant pro- ating, and amusing article entitled, fessor of mathematics, has recent- \True and False Etymologies.\ Dr. ly published a paper on \Approxl- Coffin states that although etymol- mation to an Analytic Function of ogy is an exact science, the etymol· Polynomials\ which appeared in ogy of a word is not always the the American Mathematical Society same as its meaning. He points out for December i934. some concrete examples, for in- Many situations occur in engi- stance: \The English word with neering work and in .wientific in- or·iginally meant 'in antagonism to,' vestigations calling for the applica- or 'against: It is a shortened form tion of formulas containing mathe- of Old English wither, closely allied ma.tical functions· which a.re of a to the German widE<r. Then from complicated nature and difficult to its use in such phrases as fight compute. Dr. Farrell'& paper is of with, quarrel with, argue with, a:nd value in that it presents new results the like, the word came to indicate having a bearing on certain of these association rather than antagonism, formulas which may be approxi- s·o that its modern meaning is the mated for calculation purposes by exact opposite of its original signi- a JlOlynomial, a mathematical ex- fication.\ pression of extremely simple type. Distingui.slies Meaning The most important functions of Dr. Coffin goes on to distinguish mathematical analysis are differen- \folk etymology\-the etymoJ()gy tia.ble functions of a complex var- which \grows out of the popular ia:ble, commonly called analytic practice of associating wo1·ds which functions, ':rhe question of when resemble each other in sound or . and hQw such functions may be ap- meaning, when there may exist no ptoJ~:bnated by polynomials presents real connection between them-\. a field for research in which much the etymology that rises out of mis- worlt Is being don~ and in which understanding of foreign wox·<ls, there are yet many problems still and that which comes from the nor- waiting for solution. Dr. Farrell's· mal tendency to associate words paper contributes some new results which resemble each othe1· in in this con~ection, giving conditions sound, but not in anything else. Under which certain types of anal- \Words\ is published ~rt Los An- ytic functions may be approximated geles 1 California, by I. Colodny, edl- with any desired degree of accuracy tol', and E. W. Hauck, business by- the use of polynomials, manager. CALENDAR Tomorrow 10:00-Dally Assembly, Rankine Hinman, '35 8:0(}-Y. M. C. A. Forum, Old Chapel, Dr. John L. March 8:00 -Freshman Basket b a II, Union vs, Mont Pleasant High School at Mont Pleasant 2:00-Varslty Hockey, Union vs. Middlebury at Middlebury. Payment of Tuition and Repeat- ed Course Fee, FreshmPn and Sophomo1 es, Cotnptroller'fl Of- fice, 9-11:30 and 1 to 4:30. Thursday 10:00-· Daily Assembly, Rev. John G. Meengs. Payment of Tuition and Repeat- ed Course Fee, Juniors and Seniors, Comptroller's Office. Friday 10:00-Daiiy Assembly, Dr. El- mer A. Tidmarsh. 8:00-Spencer Lecture, Frederick K. Morris, Professor of Geol- ogy, M. I. T., \The Geology .of the Hudson Valley,\ Old Chapel. Payment of Tuition and Repeat~ .-d Course Fee, Juniors and · Seniors, Comptroller's Office. trips this spring. (Continued on Page 4) Third Delta Chi ChapteJ· Organized For Law Students At Union In 1892 In the spring of 1890, a group of Cornell law students founded Delta Chi fraternity for the purpose of developing character, advancing justice, and assisting in obtaining a sound education for its members. The group was not recognized by the university, however, until Octo- ber 13, 1890, a-nd this date is cele- brated as the date of foundation. The organization spread rapidly throughout the law schools and uni- versities until today there are 39 active and six inactive chapters be- sides alumni in many cities. A majol'ity of the members of the fraternity, in the early years of its history, were engaged in the of law, and as a means of tightening the bonds among its members more se- curely, membership in other soci- eties, including professional frater- nities, was prohibited. Changing conditions in the colleges, however, tended toward a: decrease in the law profession and as a result Delta Chi was changed from a strictly law fraternity into one of a general social nature. Delta Chi has been a part of Union University since 1892, for the chapter at the Albany Law school was the third chapter to be found- ed. It was not until February 1927, however, that the frnternity was moved to its present location. An advance in the entrance require-- ments of Albany Law school de- creased the number of available men and it was with a thought for the future that the law school chap- ter voted to move the fraternity to Union College. Alpha Ga:mma Phi, a prominent Union local was chosen as the suc- cessol' of the Albany group and in May 1927, the entire chapter of Alpha Gamma Phi, was initiated into Delta Chi artd the present chapter house was built. The Delta Chi fraternity is stead- ily growing. Two new chapters ters were added last year and it is with a high degree ~>f optimism that the fraternity looks forward to the future.

Two ilirnsis \A Causa Per sa Parole :T ssai\ FOUNDED 1877 MEMB·ER S\ssociated. @ollt.giate- ~~lht.ss -> 1934 <ifo~~J!jit)~ IS3S <- MADLSON Y.lSCOHSIH ~ol~ and l 1 ~xelusive National _L\.llVt!rti:;ing llernt>- \\ntath·e, X:ttion:tl Atlverliolng H<:rVif'P, Inr., H \\'est 42url St .. N. Y. C., 400 :-<o. mchigan Ave., Chil'ag-o, IllinuiH. The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesda:ys and Fridays throughout the college year, ex.cept during Christmas and spring recesses. ------~ Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 234 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States_ Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hal4 Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board, Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-incChief Chi P\i Lodge-·I-Go27 Joseph A. Woolman .......... Managing Editor Kappu l\:u Huuse-4·7 331 William H. Fitzgerald ...... Business Manager Delta. Upsilon IIou~e-4-7~122 Milton A. Berger ............•.... Sports Editor Kappa l\:u !Iouse-4·7'331 Thornton W. Whipple ..... Circulation Manager Chi Psi Lndge-4-6;,~7 Junior Bon·d Vedder M. Gilbert. ............. Feature Edito·r Psi Upsilon llouse-·I·:o;i!U ASSOCIATE EDI'l~()RS John D. Anderson Albert H. Stevenson Robert C. North Van'Vechten Trumbull M. Bedell S. R. Cohen R. Doolittle F. Feldman Wallace T. Fo-ote Sophomore Board Assistant Edit()rs W. Ferguson F. Gage C. Garrison G. Haskell W. Horstmann R. Passenger R. Snyder N. Stewart THE CONCORbiENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1935 themselves proficient in this field to test rr======================~ their abHity or to acquire exper,ience. I F 111•· Today however, the Studio Players group • . a r ra g 0 •. is not loolced upon as an emancipation frorn ';===========;;;;;;;;========;;;;;==;;;;;;!' M:USlC By TONY SHARPE faculty direction. It is regarded as· an oppor- An apostate Concordy columnist Upton Sinclair alone would he sur- ·l!.::s::::::::::d===ft=====.===:!l tunity for those who, because of limited returns momentarily to the fold render! . ~n ay a ernoon at the organ witb. tb.e val'l·ous and sundi'Y contr1· • • + ' reCital we had the rare privilege of casts, are unable to obtain parts in the par-· buti<>~s below. we can't decid~ , An inleJ:esting and provocative pa,-' hearing some of the bf!st· works of ent organization. It also offers a chance for whether its· just propaganda for per, Austy, but how a:bout •consu1t- ·two of our f:avoJ·ite •!lomposers, a certain club, or just. If you like ing maSJter-definer Sta.nley on your' Claude Debussy a:nd Cesar I<'ranclc. those who possess thespian ambitien but who him let us know, and we'll see what next title? This economo-philosopher' They are both French and: each was do not feel they can spend the time necessary cacn be done about it. by the by, actually fore bore his an- . considered a modernist and a musi- Austy Fox's paper on cynicism in ticipated flight into those metaphy-' ca:l radical in his day. l)ebussy's for the prepal'ation of a Mountebanks pro- American literatm•e was a choice. sica! realms, upon which we may' music is all intensely subjective and duction to realize that ambition in short morsel for aggressive intellectuaries only gaze from antipodean isles. We' for that reason is· not as popular as ldon't look it up,-you won't find pass on this mirthful gem from his it might be. Debussy makes· great plays requiring a minimum of rehearsing. it!J of this club who ·toddled over a:ppraisal of Theodore Dreiser: demands on the listener, and his to the Psi U House one particularly \Dreiser shock anyone! The only use of the whole tone scale may Whether the organization has succeeded in biting night last week. persons he ever shocked are stu- seem unnecessary but to us, that is · the fil·st dil'ection, that of trainin2.· direc- 'That most downright, outright, dents of sentence-structure.\ Also part of the charm which his music ~ and forthright of cynics who p1e- this confession: that \The Ameri- possesses. Franc!{, on the other tors, is difficult to say, since the work of the sides ·over the History department- can •rragedy\ se scared him tha:t hand, wrote with a great deal of !!\roup is !!'Uided chiefly by the president of field, office, or whatever you will- he had to betake 'himself to his sincerity and religious ferv<>r and ~ ~ held •the eaget· wreckers at arm's Book of Psalms befot·e he could get· though his music is less suQjective ·the 1\lounteba.rJk.s, but from the point of view length by taking refuge, 0 the irony to sleep. And then that choice :bit than Debussy's it makes just as · of it, among the long hidden docu- about the watch-repairer who had gveat a demand on the listener be- of providing opportunity to those ·who are ments of l!Iarinus Willett, forgotten been reading Ingersoll all his life .. cause of its complexity of structure. unable to figtlre in Mountebanks productions, hero, patJ·iot, and successful mer- * * • · Franck's 'Piece Heroique' made a chant of Revolutiona1y fame. Leon- Rumor has 1t that ·certain senior' splendid number with which to be- it has l>een a great success, and both the ard Eisen bud, who took recourse to language students feel deeply' gin the program, with its allegro Mountebanks and the Studio Players are to the mysteries of the a-tom, left him- grieved. We believe in broadening maestoso tempo, its thr.i!ling rhy- self vulnerable only to some soci- courses ioo. thm and its over-powering climax. . be congratulated-the former for conceiving olegist who noticed a preponder- * * * It is particularly well suited t() this ance 0 ! Eu e t I t , th Come, Come, Geebee. Aren't you organ since the 1\nstrument 1's of .the 1'dea, a11d the latter for the excel·lence · rop an a en m e b\t ct · w paJ>ei'. a 1 un emocratiC. hat would French-Canadian make, !l,nd has• the with which that idea has so far been J5ut Austy, dear Austy, you did Lincoln say! bright, sharp reeds, the fine string nobly by us! Twice sent hungry * * * and diapason section which Franck away, we found in your provender When. the Choir next sings had in mind when he wrote the a truly Beowulfian feast. In your Diack's \O Son of Mary\ keep an composition. executed. NOT TOO LATE YET With the beginning- of the third marking period, col'l'espoHding to what has hitherto been the second semester, it is time for each student to seriously review his accomplish- ments during· the first half of the current coUege year. Have you done justice by your- self in your studies? Have you done some- thing- worthwhile to supplement your class- room studies 7 \tl ear open for some unusually lovely very t1 · e, mere ape!'etif, the master effects, Few choral numbers that Next was Franclt's 'Fantasia in C , luminaries of our company found we have heard are 'better suited for Major', a work which is seldom per- ma:tter enough for an evening's de- fl . formed because it has not been par- bate. With an effort to define \cync ~n e~sy, 1 . 0 tatmgftempo and purling ticularly well received. It is some- icism\ .the d!'scussi'on ·bee:a.n·, when'. ona qual y, or or carefully modu- th\ th t ~ !at d 11 Th d ft t mg a one must hear many t he last cup of Pst' U coffee had e swe 6 • e e con rast of t' b f 4 4 h th · th t d 3 1mes e ore real enjoyment can be been downed, the ct'I.tics were st1'l! - r Y m m e par s an -4 f d · h th · th bl' oun m listening to it. It is so tear1'ne: away ft·om your thron 0 cr of r Y m In e 0 Igatto solo is · 1 · 1 d - e · · 11 · t · · naiVe Y Simp e an yet, paradoxi- contemporary cynics those whom ::;pecuc Y m l'lfu~ng;. cally enough, so subtle that it is a you had so liberally honored with E •t X d E t trifle bewildering, yet none the ·less b h . 0 • x.1 an • 11 er Far1•ag() mem ers 1p. · ne fellow club-mem- * * * enj?yable. It is not something on ber was even so rude as to intimate Th which you can pass quick J·udgment, th t e swim meet was interesting, a your paper had been better but what attracted our attention therefore we would advise your called \American Writers, and t hearing it again before form1'ng a Otb. Wh mos was a very good lookin\o. girl, ers o Think There Is Some- definite opinion, h. w really a stunning girl, <Red Bool! t Ing rong vVith the World.\ co k\ dl d d · d b · We w1'll \ay very li\ttle about the ver m resse m a eep nck ~ * * * D b Befme the joint if not unified at- shade, sitting on the bleachers not e ussy numbers, since to attempt I Ed . An investment in a college education aver- ssue 1tor ..•.•....... John D. Anderson ages roughly about four thousand five hun- far from us. The Syracuse tea·m, to describe them or comment at tack of Messi·s. Larrabee, Wainger, directly opposite her, disproved the length on them would take away all et multi alii, Austy beat a hasty theory that men stare. On!~ theil the pleasure you might have felt by retreat from his title, but carried diver occasionally glanced in that listening to the music for its own with him his motley crew, now sail- direction, and we believe once got sake. 'The Afternoon of a Faun' ing under the colors of \sma:rtness.\ an approving smile. was indescribably beautiful and the Assistant Issue Editors dred dollars. Statistics have been compiled W. Horstman n. Passenger to show, that on the average, the man with a college education earns considerably more Middlesex Notes Even Strawchuckbridges, the presideni tal setter, has a sense of the values of his position, it sePms. One day while wa·lking in front of the Administration Building we noticed him staring meditatively at a tree, p<>ndedng upon its possible uses. Evidently he finally hit upon some way of utilizing it, for with a purposeful look on his face, he glanced all around him, to see that no one was observing his untoward behavior. Satisfied that he was un- observed, he breathed a sigh of re- lief, leaned against the tree, and cautiously raised a hind leg. Tuesday, February 5, 1925 than the non-colleg-e graduate, when he gets into the business world. However, statistics of this natur-e are based only on large num- AS HELL WEEK APPROACHES bers and tell little about how many people Th f f f t \t . 'f t· . there are much below the average. In order e. Ime or ra ~rm Y 1111 la Ions ~s a~- to make sure you are one of the more for- p~oachmg and agam Th~ ConcordiensJ~ tunate, it is best to get off on the right foot wt Jshesdtothurgebev 1 .e~·y frafterm thy to take st€ps while in college. owar e a o 1t10n o sue nonsense as . . . Hell Week. Several fraternities on the cam- There 1s enough tlme left m the current pus have abolished the shopworn tt·aditional colleg-e year to make up for ~ 1·eason~ble paddling of their initiates. Some, it is known, amount o_r lost ~nowledge dunng th: first have not. There can be no 1 -eal pleasure for t~o markmg perwds. Those who contmue to any respectful college man in seeing the smk dee~er m the r~ts they _h~ve alr.eady freshmen who are going through the rituals. carved :\Ill regTe~ th~1r lacka~a1s1cal att1tude for membership in his fratemity takinp; an when fmal exammatwns begm. unmerciful beating. We owe great debts to those who are fin- Never let it be said that those estimable revolutionaries, the Rus- sians, have no regard for the grea:t music and musicians of other coun- tl'ies. Comrades Beethoven, Bach, Mozart and Chopin are in just as good repute among them as are Comt·ades Lenin, Stalin OI' Litvinoff. Bat it seems tha:t when their names are placed upon the pay-roll of the broadcasting studios and when Comt·ade Beethoven draws a cool ninety-five rubles a month, the Bol- sheviks draw the line. The campus displays of initiatioa have ancing· our ed~cations. I~ we are. to prove lessened in recent years and. it is quite €Vi- ~hat ~h.e Amencan yo~t~ IS really mterested dent that fraternities are headed in a sane m gammg· knowledge, 1t IS up to each student direction. The orgies of initiation could be individual.ly to see that he_ jus~ifies t~e tre- considerably decreased on both the freshmen mendous mvestme~t ma~e 1~1 hun by h1s par- and the active members of the fratel'llities if ents. Although th1s editorial comes shortly hazing could be reduced to a minimum. after the opening of the marking period, it is not to late to get off in the right direction .. . .. At the risk of airing our personal opinion~ a thing which, perhaps be- cause or the opinions or on a:ccount of the way they are expressed, never appeals to our readers, we wish to call your attention to the picture \Chu Chin Chow.\ For downrig·bt humor and t•eal imagin- ation we have never seen a better musical. Unlike Hoily-wooden pro- dactions, it did not base its preten- It seems to us distinc:tly pue1·ile and 'hig-h schoolish' when any college fraternity finds it necessary to try to color its 1·itual with the time honored corporal punishment and hazing. If the initiation ceremony is so lack- ing in impressiveness, it is hard to under- stand how such antics can help the initiate to appreciate the step to membership that he is taking. The authorities of the colleg·e al'e considel·- ate when it makes provision for no written work during the period of initiation. Such a provision should not be nec&ssary. This is a matter for each fraternity to face individ- ually-several have taken corrective stepos,- will the others follow? THE STUDIO PLAYERS This year, as in the past, the Studio Play- ers will present two short plays, using actors who are not engaged in th.e eurrent Mounte- banks production. The oritrinal idea behind the formation of the organization several years ago was to form a group that would be free of faculty direction, that branch to be turned over to the ·students. This, it was hoped, would permit those who considered Start now, ·before it is too late! sions to fa-me upon the total yard- a~e of exposable feminine pulchri- tude ahd the box-office power of chinless cr<Joners. Instead it had a POETRY wholesome-lool(ing Scotchwoman as a leading lady, a Russian and a The recent formation of a poetry club ·''Y Cb.inese as villacin and villainess, re- I.) spectively, and the genial Cockney a group of students interested in studying George Robey. With these charac- ters the show would have been just and Wl'iting poetry may indicate that at last as great a success had it had no students al'e drifting away from the \mucker feminine appeal whatsoever. The music, too, often approached Gil- pose\ that is so often the curse of college bert-and-Sullivan proportions. If it life Th 11 f th · 't · 1 comes t<> the Plaza, by all means . e pu 0 e maJOI'l Y m C assroom see it. This is not a paid atlvertise- and fraternity house is tremendous. Eccen- ment. tricity in any form is regarded with distrust To the elev:n :'ne~ who plan the and contempt. The .student who does not try Union Renaissance, congra:tulations. To their public, we advise patience. to conform to the pattern of the he~man- Anyway, they are doing something sophisticate is avoided and ostraci•sed. tha:t not many groups of eleven stu- dents dare to do in any college- The pull of the majority is decidedly away openly brand themselves as intellec- from poetry, either as amusement or as a tuals, Intelligentsia, sensitive souls. If they have souls ·brave enough to serious outlet of expression. Most :people take withstand the assaults of those who find their greatest pleasure in poetry sparingly and in SUgar-coated doses. Ballyhoo and bull-sessions, they But the few who are interested in poetry may be a:ble to ;:vri~e good poetry. should not squelch that interest because it is Time moves on apace, and with th ht • \f' d d It, In little more than two weeks oug SlSl 1e an queer. will come that beautiful, ecsta:tic Whether or not the new poetry group dB- period known as Eell Week. As we have often tried to point out, we velops any geniuses is beside the question. try to remain passive upon contro- W e admire their courage in organizin~r in. versial subjects, a lesson we learned - fr<>m the estimable Dr. Tugwell. spite of Joe Collegiate's sneers and lifted. Nevertheless, we do feel tha>t it's a eyebrows. MOl'e power to them and thei·r good idea. First of all, suffering will give the pledge that necessary villanelles. cleansing of the mind through trib- ulation that will make him appre- ciate the glories of his fraternity. Then, too, men before him have gone through it, and behold, they have become Presidents, big busi· ness men, authors, leaders in all kind of things. If he gets paddled too hard he will be laid up for a week or so, and the rest will do him good. You can tell him for years of the honor he is getting by being admitted, but to quote Mohammed, \One hour of justice is worth more than three score and ten years of prayer. . Bring then a. better revelation and I will follow it.\ s. R. c. ------o--- Week's Best Editorial FRATERNITIES ON TRIAL Persons who keep an eye on activities and trends at the colleges and universities are well aware that tb.e fraternity system is going through a most trying period. From every direction come reports <>f mergers and the closing of .chapter houses, to sa:y nothing of defaults on bonds sold to build houses. If the present difficulties do not soon abate, it is doubtful whether fra- ternities as places of residence will long continue on many campuses, observers say. These economic troubles of fra- ternities are supplemented, more- over, by the growing· conviction on the part of many educational ad- ministrat<>rs that Greek Jette~· or- ganizations are not functioning to the best interests of collegiate edu- cation. Within the past few months, the news columns have called atten- tion again and again to college presidents who have ordered the fra:ternities at their institutions to show cause why they should not be disbanded. If a disinterested observation is in order, it may be suggested that experience bas shown that the fra- ternity system is neither all bad nor all good. If at its worst it has been a hindrance to higher lea:rn- ing, it has, at its best, been a de- cided complement. Thanks to fra- ternities, many large state univer- sities, particularly those of the Mid- dle West, have had in effect for many years aJ counterpart of the house plan which leading eastern ~iversiti~s are only now putting m operatiOn. Men and women who worked out their first problems of self-governmnet at fraternity and sorority chapter meetinO's are legion. \ In discussing the fraternity situ- ation at the recent twenty-sixth annual meeting of the Nation Inter- frater-nity Council in New York Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, new president of Union College, where the first social college fraternity was found- ed 109 years ago, remarked: \Fra- ternities have high potentialities of excellence if they and the college work together. The fruitful course is clearly to mark these possible 'Ballet' with its captivating rhythm has haunted us ever since. 'The Andante from String Quartet' suf- fered much by its transcription but managed to retain much of its orig- inal beauty. 'The Girl with the Flaxen Hair' of course has a univer- sal appeal and no one ever seems to tire of it. Hope you heard Igor Stravinsky Sunday night making his only American appearance. Don't forget Lawrence Tibbett tonight at 8:80 over WJZ-Lily Pons Wednesday night at 9:00 over WABC-'Don Giovanni' from the Met Saturday at 1:55 over WEAF-In competition with Secret Service we give one package of Wings to the poetry cJub!!! Secret Service I Bureau ·-- It seems that the author of Punc- tilio has ·been reading Time mag- azine. It hurts us deeply to think that some of the inferior column- ists on this paper are injured in- nocence personified because they have not been subsidized, but we tealize that merit is its own reward. We are proud to represent Philip Morris on this campus-a cigarette of distinguished excellence. Noth- ing quite like a boost for our backers. It was interesting to note at the Frosh Basketball game last Sat- urday night that tho Nott Terrace stands were exceeded in number, only 1by the number of their cheer- leaders. * Contrary to all ex.pectations, we have nothing to say this week about the Garnet Goblins except that they have a pretty good band down at the Van Curler. Punctilio please note: this statement was not subsidized. * * Mr. Meyers has our sympathies re. his ex-Jagu seniors. We under- stand that the first assignment was 35 pages. Judging from previous knowledge of these worthies this is not to be taken as a daily l~sson, but as a year's project. * * We haven't heard much about the Fee Gees lately, but taking our cue from the last weekend it would ap- pear that these gentlemen have not ·all deserted Father Bacchus. .. The Van Curler seemed to claim most of the campus this week-end. Unfortunately for us there was no Legion Convention to liven things up, but we are happy to be able to say that a good clean time was had by all. excellencies and encourage them.\ Philip Morris Awards for President Fox's words a>re well Achievemtlnt-,... spoken. If college fraternities can use their present period of many Soz Waldron~Fm· his 'brilliant play troubles as. a refining period to against Stevens. that end, they will not only .survive, Grant Smith-For his splendid but find themselves stronger both game against Nott Terrace. socially and educationally than ln Austin Fox-For scoring two goals the past. -St. Louis Post;.Dlspa.teh on the ice against M. I. T. = ( Tei A sec• the esc~ han Sat tim cou the hOIJ Va1 hon Uni den ing En: 'I for pilE Sal Th• gee an< the '] ch~ of tur w~ Do th~ sid rna De ~ of in ce1 a ac1 wo ha tyi ha tliJ ho its U1 M• R< Mi w M• B1 Se B1 St Di D1 M D· s~ G! Cl

J ' organ ilege of ·orks. of e1posers, B'ranck. :~.ch was a musi- ~bussy's ;ive and )Ular as ;s, great ~nd his cle may , that is s music ~ other deal of mr and l:!jective just as mer be- ructure. made a h. to be- allegro ng rhy- climax. L tO< this tt is of has the e string Franck ·ote the sia inC lom per- een par- ls some- r many t. can be u is so aradoxi- t. it is a the less hing on .dgment, se your rming a :>out the attempt ment at away all e felt by its own a Faun' and the rhythm le. 'The tet' suf- •tion but its orig- rith the L univer- •r seems ravinsky tis only .'t forget at 8:30 ldnesday 10-'Don urday at a petition rive one poetry of Punc- ne mag- to think column- 'ured in- lse they but we 1 reward. Lt Philip cigarette '· Noth- for our :eat the ast Sat- Terrace number, ir cheer- :ions, we tis week s except JOd band Punctilio ; was not mpathies re under- nent was previous lies, this ly lesson, about the r our cue vould ap- have not .us. to claim 1\Teek-end, e was no m things ' be able time was iant play splendid ~errace. :wo goals t.L I. T. THE CONCC>:RDIEN\S[S 'l'lJESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1935 Three Garnet Teams Win Three Out Of Six Encounter.s ~·~~~------------- Varsity Five Stages Second Hamiltoa F:en~ers Swimmers Lose To. Frosh Meets Mont Pleasant Half Rally To Beat Stevens .Beat Unie>n, 12 to 5, Syracuse, ~ 8 to 33 High in \Battle of Century\ Orange Scores Win in First Meet in Two ¥ ea1·s; Union Wins Relay Only Ten Points Behind At Half-time, Union Tallies,. Many Matches. lheide-<1 by One TwentyMfi:ve Points to Opponents' Eight In Point; RogeFs .. Mo:t.11ii.son, Second Half to Win Handily, 35-28 Feldman, Slobod Win <!. The Syracuse University swim- Red Raiders Have Fifteen Game Winning Streak; Frosh Undefeated A sudden return to form in the Sextet wm· s Ft·rst' The varsity :Hamilton College m!ng team, which is coached by second half of the game .enabled . '\ · ' . · :, fencing squad defeated the Union 'Ted Webster, former intercollegiate An enthusiasm similar to that the varsity basketball team to rpl•lt FrOID M. I T · intramural intercl>-llegiate fencing champ, and which .took part in its which was at·oused when the var- escape an unexpected defeat at th. e .1 • ' • a' team Saturday afterno-on l~ to :5 in Saturday, defeated the Garnet mer- H b k I b t ·ii Th sity bas~etball team played the hands of Stevens Tech- at . o o en, ' a ong u exc1- n.g conc'test. · e men, 38 to 33, Three of the Foote Saturday night. Trailing at half- · Dutchmen, who are ·coached. by Mr. Pool records were lowered by the Syracuse University five has again time, 20 to 10, the Datchmen ac- Fox and Warner Score Three. Rurt Von Forstrneyer .. ga~e -a good ex::pertly-coached Orange swimmers. been inspired in many basketball counted for 25 points more before G l . S d p , d account of them.selves .against the Although the Dutchmen took se- fans by the Garnet freshman-Mont the end of the contest a.nd held the oa S In econ eno ; more experienced•<'!·Hnton .team, and· cond places in almost every event home team to only eight. Led ·by Walthe . Plays w· ell at least one toucl!. \Vas scored by and won the relay, the Syracusans Pleasant game which takes place Van Waldron, who too~ scoring · r every Union ma.n in thoe foil and' were never extended during the tomorrow night at 8:30 in the high honors with eleven pomts, the sa:bre bouts. meet. Bill Dinehart broke the 440 ::;chool gymnasium. The high call- Union team in this period clearly After winning their first victory Three of the I£aJD..ilton fencers yard free style swim mark by 1.8 bre of the play used this season by dem on.strated its superiority, play- had taken part in the to.un::~aments :seconds and lowered the 100 yard f f th of the season Friday by defeating held tly · N 'IT 1· the two teams indicates that to- ing havoc with the de ense o · e recen m ew <<>-r c~ •among dash record by the same number Engineet•s. the M. I. T. hockey team, 3 to 2, them being Captaia J.[()ntrose, Da.le, of seconds. Captain Francis Niez-. morrow's contest will be the high The first half was a. nightmare 'the Garnet sextet has begun its and Hall. Mon.trose, who- was a nalski brought the 200-yard breast- spot in the athletic events that for the Garnet. Stevens began to practices for its forthcoming match finalist in the foil' bouts in. the in- stroke record down seven seconds take place this week in the city. th k f vitation m.eet, led his tea:m!klates 'by as he sped .through the water in the pile up a big lead 'l>y e wor 0 . with Hamilton at Clinton next Sat- t\ f 1 •~ hi t S I t .. d Captain Disch accoun mg or a v cwry in· s hree time of 2:45.8. M p Hn.~ 15 Sh~;ght Wins Sal a va on an . urday. The Dutchmen J}layed a fast· bouts with Bob Slobod, Fra.nk Johnny Mesick, diving star who is· · · ~ . ~ The Dutchmen were playmg rag- c d g edly, nervously muifing the ball and brilliant game against the Tech hamp, an · Earl· lDewey. Stuart only a junior and who has held The Red Raiders have hung up f t d f b h . d t Rogers starred for !the B1:1.tchmen, the outdoor div.ing championship of their fifteenth basketball victory and failing to account for many o earn, an came up rom e 1n o winning two of his bo-uts in the Central New York ·for three years, th1·s yea1· wh1'le the Dutchmen have their tries. overtake the lead which had been sabre events. ,took first place in the dives with taken th~ee contests. Although the Start Shootiag Spree established by Goodwin and Healy Feldman \'tns in :E~ee :89.8 points. Despite the fact that Mont Pleasant quintet has had Their return to the floor was of M. I. T. in the earlier part of The fine work of Fre-<1 Feldman ·Syracuse was engaging in its first more experience in working to- characterized by the cool sure type game. in one of the epee bo!Lis resulted intercollegiate match in two years·, gether as a team this year, it will of ball-playing that had been fea.- Shortly after the second period in a victory over :Basten, Captain :the Orange team made an impres- have to play its best to take down tured on the home flo~rt:n s~a:n. opened, the Red team secured its Bert Morrison and Sle>I:Jod. scored sive showing as they came through the Union cubs. The frosh have Waldron, Milano, Mo e an c- one point lead by a clear shot by two decisive wins in the fo-ils, best- in ·seven out of eight events. continually been playing the Ger- Dowell began to pop baskets in H 1 Th G . h ing Ha.I land Da.le, Fred Hammer gave his team a net varsity in close practice games, their usual manner. Waldron, be- b ea y .. 1 e 1 arnedt Sl:',h ohwev~rd, The len~h of each :rna:tcl::l was in- one point lead in the first race as and even without their actual en- ~~·des do1\ng h1·s b1\t of the scoring egan 1 s ra ly, an WJt t e aJ e;.~ b.e nosed out Carl Faelten and Maus t ·th t ·d t th ~ ' of Austin Fox and Bob Warne 1 · dicative of the diffic11lty :the 'Olin- gagemen s WI · ou s1 e eams, ey managed to keep his adversary, scored three points· in the same per- ton team had in overe:otning the SteanlS in the 220-yard free style have perfected a strong five. Depplel . scoreless · d . h defens 1 ·ve swordsmansh~p of the event. Until the backstroke event ' · io to wm -t e game. ~ In the 1932-33 basketball season The Sudd en shift in the mannel' Union men. M~>re than half of the Union had won every second and Last · d E \tin 'th' d 1 Th t t the high school team defeated the of play which the Garnet displayed Peno xcl g bouts were decided b-y 'the mar-gin · 11' P ace. e con: es was . th d half served to d!\scon of one touch. elinched after the 100-yard dash Union freshmen quintet, 35 to 25, 1n e secon · - The last per1\od wh1\ch featured but th h b Ex t . Resu..I•\ •• ·which Dinehal't swam in 57.2 se- no o er games ave een cert the Stevens team. ·pee mg frequent attacks by both teams, wa.s \' played between the two institutions a period with less dash than was almost as active as was the second. Foils-Montrose (.H) defeated'Slo- eonds. Union won the 200-yard re- since. Early in 1934 the Mont Pleas- t ally th ~ case the Techmen S d h d h bod, 5 to 2·, Dai~ ·(·H<I -'ef·eated ·Dew- lay, taking it in the time of 1 min- ac u ~ • un ry met ads were trie by t e ~· .., ant squad began its record of k nl after the Unl ·on team 1 th ey, 5 to 4·, Mon.tt·ose .(·~\'·) defeoted ute and 51 seconds. wo e o Y p ayers to drive the puck into e = ~ straight victories, and at the pres- had come within a. few points of cage, but with no success. Re- Dewey, 5 to l; ·!llontro.se (H·l de- Summaries: ent time they have established a tying the score. The attempt to peated attacks on A. P. Walthers feated Champ, ~ to 2; .Slt>bod (U) 220-yard free style-Hammer, (S) list of 23 consecutive victories. halt the Garnet quintet at this in the Union cage were halted by defeated Dale, f> to 2; D-:ale (Hi de- first; Faelten, (U), second; Stearns, time was almost \lseless, and the the fine defense work of Phil Lit- feated Morriso11., .5 to 4 ; Hall (H) ( U), third. Time-2 :41. home team was rarely able to get tie and the goalie himself. Hugo defeated Slobod, 5 to 2:; 1\:!orrison. 50-yard dash-Dinehart, (S), first; its hands on the ball. Bergman and \Doc\ Orton, besides (U) defeated :Hall, 5 to 3; .Hall (H) Griswold, (UJ, second; Rennedy, The Sullllllary their fine passwork with Fox and defeated Champ·, •15- to 4. , ( U), third. Time 25.6. Captain Bill Jenkins, made some Epee- Bremer tEO orleEeat:ed Feld- Dive-Mesick, (S), first-89.8 Union (35) G F P pretty saves in that last exciting man, 2 to 0; Bremer (H•J defeated' points; Keens, (U), second-74.5 McDowell, rf .......... 3 0 6 period, Morrison, 2 to 0; Feldm.an. (U) de- points, Emerson, (U), third-58.4 Rotunda, rf ........ , .. 0 0 0 Summaries: feated Basten, 2 to 0; Easten (H). points. Milano, If ............. 2 4 8 UNION 1 T defeated Cohen, 2 to L. 440-yard free style- Dinehart, (S), McNaughton vs. G. Smith Tall, lanky Carl Heiner, who is second in scoring on the high school team, will start in the right forward position for Mont Pleas- ant. Kruxzewslti will probably start in the other forward berth, while Don \Stretch\ McNaughton, who is considered one of the out- standing players in the Northeast- ern New York League, will play the pivot position. Janizewski and Podbielski, brother of Ted who plays with the Union fr0sh, will start in the guar·d positions. The freshman lineup will pr-ob- ably be: Phil Duchscherer and Podbielski in the forward berths; Grant Smith, who will have a de- fensive as weJ.l as an offensive game to play against McNaughton, in the center post; Lenny Schultz and Johnny Schultz in the guard positions, although Vincent Smith may start at guard. MacCarthy, SpeHman, Hawkes, Breymaier, Greulick, Ladd, and Doyle will probably see much action with the frosh. ---0-·-- -·· - CORRECTION In the artie!!' in Friday's issue of The Concordlensis about Dr. Har- old A. Larrabee's address before the American Association of Uni- versity Women in Albany on Thur:<- day, a mistake occurred in the opening sen trnce which x·ead as fol- lows: \ .... Things have gone too far in the direction of the equa-liza- tion of opportunity between sexes.\ In coir·erted form that sentence should 1 ead •· .... Things hav~ gone too far in the direction of the equalization of educational oppor- tunity between the sexes for any Mussolini or Hitler to keep the clock turned back.\ This sentence is a direct quota- tion from Dr. Larrabee's address. CHARLES' Formerly ED'S The Official Union College Barber for the past 24 years. Ask any upper classmen, they know. 11 operators. Schenectady's greatest barber. COR. STATE AND BROADWAY Waldron, c ........... 4 3 11 M. · · Sabre-Johnson CHJ defeated first; Faelton, (U), second; Stearns, Moffett, rg . , ....... , .. 2 4 8 LW Bergman ............ Mathias Rogers, 5 to 3; Bogers (1lJ.) defea.ted (U), third. Time-5:39.6. (pool re- Brandow, rg ....... , .. () 0 0 RW Fox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stiles Johnson, 5 to 3; R..ogms (IT) defeat- cord-5:41.4). THE UNIVERSITY OF BUFFALO Semerad, lg ........ , .. 1 0 2 ed Green, 5 t(} 4, Jo.Jmsoll., (Hi de~· 150-yard backstroke- Hammer, Brown, lg ............. o 0 0 C Jenkins · · · · · · · · · · · · Goodwin feated Morrison, 5 to 3. (S), first; Dick, (SI, second; Moul- Totals ........... , .. 12 11 35 LD Little . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Parker ton, (U), third. Time-2:04.8. Stevens (28) G F p RD Warner ............. Notman 200-yard breast strGke-Nieznal- Disch, rf .............. 2 1 5 G Walthers ............. Kenny Intramural Basketball .ski, <S>, first; Rhodetsh •. (dU), sTe~ond; D If 2 2 6 Argersinger, ( U) , 1r . 1me- uame, · · · · · · · .. · · · · Spares-Union: Becker, Orton, le '2:45.8 (pool record-2:52.8). ~~;~r~;,f d·:::::::::::: ~ ~ g Summerhays, Emans. M. I. T.- agues 100-yard dash-Dinehart, (S), Salvatori, rg .... , •.... 4 2 10 Windsor, Healy, Owen, Fosber. • first; Griswold, (Ul, second Ken- G\l 1 · t, 1 o o o Scoring-First period: M. I. T., nedy, (U), third. Time-57.2. (pool C 1 c 1 kns 1 g · · · · · · • ·' • · 1 0 2 Goodwin, 10:15. Fouls-Little, Scbe-d11.le recor-59:0). hie ·Q;,'·' ·g' · · ,. ..... '·'- ·' · ' Bergman, Goodwin. Second period- 200-yard relay-Union: Griffing, Tottl.ls · · · · ·: · · · ·- · · · · 11 6 28 M. I. T., Healy, 2:45; 1 Union, Fox, Faelton, Kennedy, Griswold. Time- 3:10; 2 Union, Warner, 10:30; 3 Un- T()nigld; '1:51. Frosh -,Hoopsters Defeat N ott Terrace Hi, 44; to 13 ion, Fox, 14:23. Fouls-none. Third 7:30-City Ne11tra.ls vs, Theta --------------- Another overwhelming was won by the freshman period-none. Fouls--none. Delta Chi, Frosh Hockey Team Drops victory basket- Last Tilt to Clinton, 4:-3 8:3Q-Delta Phi vs. Chi :Psi. T~n1o1row 7:3Q-Lambda Ch.i Alpha vs. Delta Chi. 8:3Q-Phi Si~ma Kapopa vs. Neu- Vandecar .............. 6 Bull ................... 2 Blasedell ........... , . . 0 Neumann .............. 0 Maloney ............... 2 Totals ........•...... 13 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 4 0 0 4 26 Sc:hool of Dentistry A three year course of instruction, quarter plan. The dental and medical divisions are closely affiliated. Dental students have two years of basic medical study under the direction and supervision of the medical faculty. Clinical praJCtice of dentistry, in all its varied aspects, is supervised by th,e dental division and is connected with the clinics of several hospitals. These combined in- .stitutions offer an unusually helpful experience in clin- ical observation, diagnosis, and treatment of dental con- ditions. The next regular session will open July 1st, 1935. For further information address School of Dentis!:ry, 25 Goodrich Street, Buffalo, N. Y. ball tea.m Saturday evening when it defeated the Nott 'Terrace High Led by a husky forward named School squad by the score of 44 to Roberts, the Clinton High School 13. The high school five was sextet administered the Union limited to three field goals, all of freshman hockey team a 4 to 3 de- which were made in the third quar- feat Saturday afternoon when the ter, and a grand total of one point yearlings played their last game of trals. Frldn,y 7:30-Chi Psi vs. City Neutrals 8:30-Sigm~ CD.i v.s, :Delta Phi. Delta Upsilon (7) G Bedell ................. 0 Olson ...........•...... 1 F 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 ~~~;;;;~~;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;~~~· 2 0 1 >i' '* * Res11lts F 0 '1' 6 Everest ........ , . . . . . . . 1 Reed .................. 0 Dean .................. 0 Fenton ................ 1 Totals ............... 3 2 7 (Continued on Page 4) Ph!i Sigma HaiJ]Ia. (26) G was amassed by the visitors in the the season. Despite the vigorous Van Auken ... , , •. _ ..• ~ first and last peric)(fs. and almost succesful attempts on ~;;;;;;;;;;-::;_;- ;· ;;;;::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~~~~~~;;;;;;;;;;59--· The spirited defense which the the part of the frosh to outstrip blue-clad basketeers put up in the the high school six in the second second and third quarters kept the and last periods, the score remained Garnet frosh on even. running with their\ opponents·. Tlle yearlings unchanged at the end of the game. however, came ])ack in the last Fine defensive work by the Ciinton quarter with a barrage of shots squad kept their lead intact, even that totalled 20 polnts before the though Fritz Hawley and Charlie end of the game, Little scored for Union in every S11mlllaries: period. UNION FRESHMEN (44) The absence of Johnny Wold, who G F T was hurt early in the game, was felt Podbielski, rf ... , •..• , .. , 6 3 15 in the second period, when Roberts L, Schultz ..... , • . . • . . . . 2 0 4 scored three goals in almost rapid Duchscherer, If . . . . . . . 0 0 0 succession. Union op.ened the scor- JME UWION INN t.teeiimg Plac:e ior Many Students who like good Sandwiches and Drinks. Th~y A.1e the Best-Try Them Once 'YOU W·ILL BE SATISFIED 517 Union St. Tel. 4·2536 G. Smith, c .... , •..• , .•. 7 1 15 ing in the first period as Fritz Haw- ~~;;;~~~~~~~~~~~~;;~~;;;;;;;;~~~;;~~~~~ Doyle •.......... , • , .• , . . . 0 0 0 ley smashed the puck through the f, Greulick ........ , . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Clinton cage. Roberts retaliated Hawkes ....... , , • , . . . . . . 0 0 0 shortly afterward as he sped to- J. Schultz, r:g ...•..• , • • • 2 0 4 wards the Union goal to tally this Ladd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 0 0 0 point. V. Smith, lg • , ..•• , .• , . • . 2 0 4 In the second frame young Ro- McCarthy •••...••.•. , • . . 1 0 2 berts again did some fancy work Spellman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 0 0 0 with his stick and dodged and f,INE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. FER.RY STREET Sc:hellectady, N. Y. TOTALS .............. 20 skated his w.a.y through the weak- . ~~;;;;~;;;;~~;;;;~;;;;~~~~~;;;~;;;;;~;;;~~~~~~ 4 44 ended Union defense three times. Little then .broke through the op- position's line at the end of the period to make Union's score two. NOT'r TERRACE (18) G F T Barton, rf ......•........ 1 1 3 Juvista . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 0 1 1 Buell, If ...•.•• , • • . • .. • • . 2 2 6 Korkhoze ......•. , .... 0 1 1 Wo.sniak, c .............. 0 1 1 Burmaster ..... , •..• , , . . . 0 0 0 Vacca, rg , .•.•. , •...•.•... 0 1 1 Loss ..................... o o 0 Rosenbloom , ...... - , . . . . 0 0 0 TOTALS •.•. , ......... 3 7 13 Score by pe1•lotls: UNION FROSH 11 3 10 20--44 NOTT TERR •. , . 1 3 9 0-13 Inspired by the return of Wold in his defetlse position, the Dutch- men began to batter their rival's cage. Hawley, in the first minute of play made Union's last goal. DeWitt•s Lunch 118 JAY STREET Opposite New Ctiy Hall Gazette Press UNION COLLEGE BOOK STORE Room •s• Administration Building College Seal Jewelry Fountain Pens Pennants Leather Goods OUR NEW LINE CIGARETTES and SMOKING TOBACCO Hours-8:45 • 12:00, 1:15 • 5:00

Four THE CONOORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1935 Theta Delts Subdue .statistics Show Few H~ve ~~~o:~u~.ct:~~n~~:~~~t~o~;t:~f; ~~~i~~ iiu!~t:t~nn~~~~e~e:~a;o~; ~~~~~Nel: . :: ::: :::::::::::: i F • C } .. Full College Education improves it .by practice. The aver- i'hornton Whipple, leader ol' the i[~~~~~s~·::::::::::::::::::: g Ire ourage()llS y age income of $6,000 a year at 60 is glee club. The glee club ensemble, Dush ................... \. 3 often surpassed. With an average will sing over WGY on Wednesday· ~l'ottds ........ , ........... 13 (By Associated COllegiattl Press) of $150,000 total income between 22 night, Febi·ua·IY 13, at 11:15 o'clock, * * • Only two boys out of every 100 re- a:nd 60, the college education is and a combined program of the ·Pili Sig·ma. Kut•PII <40) G West, Phillippi, :Burnh.am Do Firefighting Tricks With Axe And Garden Hose ceive four years of college educa- wo1·th $72,000 more than just a high; vocal and string quaitets will be Van Aul(elt · \· .. · ...... · · · 3 tl ·on. To increase th1's number is , school education.\ b d t \' d d. · ht Vandecat· · · · ··· · · · · · · · · · · ·' · 6 roa cas on n·e nes ay mg . , ·Mll.loney ................... 3 one of the goals of American life o February 27, at the same hour, . )c~ull ..................... ; . ~ .insurance COlllpanies, says a .prom-· D· ebatei~S PI·opose· Change· If the two programs are found :-.ew.mmm .................. - inent insurance executive. Totals · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .17 S . f V . to be successful, it is likely that the. IitL!•Jla Allllta. ( 13 G 'l:hree firefighting. brothers saved The value Qf an education W!l:s Jn eleCtiOn 0 arSity glee club will be Oil the air twice: M9.cMui•t•ay ............... 4 F 'd pointed out by the executive, who ___ ea:ch month dul'ing the balance of, Shepard ................... 0 their house from detnoli tion ~' 1 ay· cited statistics compiled by the the college year. l~arrar ..... · · ... , • · · · · · · · · · 0 when .flames leapt from a corner of Massachusetts department ·of labor. (Continued from Page U Betts · · · · •· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 1 and the ce>llege of business admin-: entire season, more effort would ·be In making the announcement, Partridge .. · .. · .. · .. · .. · .. · 1 the living room of the Theta Della, . Whipple suggested that student13 in-. Reynolds .. · · · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · 0 •strati~n Boston un·l·versit\ devoted to obtaining a vars1ty pas- 'I' t 1 \ Chi . House a·t 11·.30 in the morning. ~ · ~ ' \'' fGrm their .parents and friends to' 0 a\ · ..... · ............ u . The cash value of a college educa- ition because it would be a greater * • * Alton West, '35, Bill Phillippi, '37, tion .as compared to a high school honor. listen in and then write back their· neta Thetn PI: on G and Robert Burnham, '37, were the: education was set by the statistics. Round-table conferences, similar comments on the programs offered. Merriman ................. 2 th .at $72.000. The total earnings of a to the program broadcast on Sun- ---o•--- Brown · · ·· · ·· · ·· · ·· · ·· · ·· · 1 only men in the house when e 11 d 22 60 I k b Krull .................. · ... 3 d I co ege gra uate from to ·aver- day afternoons from the University lntra·mura Bas ·et all .'[n.~'ab .................... 0 ~tre started. The two un ere ass- age $150,000. of Chicago, were also proposed as :i'r~ii'enbePI' ................ 0 men were .playing casino, when Incomo Lower a means of increasing interest in Totals · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · G AIItJia llelt•L llltJ (22) U Bt.u:nham said, \Look ·pointing to. \When a boy goes to work at 1 4 debating C>f a more informal nature. (Continued rrom Page 3) Hhepartl ................... 3 a red-glowing floor board. Phillippi he reaches his maximum income a:t The gt•eater freedom of such an City :JSeutrals (2); Sigma Chi (0). Haskell . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 4 l ·ushed to t·he ltl'tchen and I'eturned; 30. He averages less than $1,200 a open discussion, as contrasted with Default. Shields ......... '., ........ 1 the present more formal practice Hughes · .. · .... · · ··· · · · · · · · 3 th n Y ear. His income depends largely * * * lt'ttle o with a bucket of water to row 0 debates, would ·bring more people to ' ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · upon manual dexterity and physical Psi Upsilon (2); Delta Chi (0). Totals ... · ........ · ...... 11 the spot. strength and thus falls off grad- the meetings, i:t was thought. Default. West Stars With. A . .- .. e ually after he is 50. More than 60 Mr. Robert Smith, coach of debat- of every untrained workers are ing, and Frederic A. Wyatt, direc- In a moment, .AI West, bead of dependent for support at 60. He tor, commented on the suggestions, the house, W9:S at the ~ource of the earns approximately $45,000 be- which were, on the whole, well-ac- fire with an axe, try1ng to break tween 14 and 60 and not more than cepted. It was decided that the through the partition: It \Was then, $2,000 of this in the years he should policies of the society should not be that the flames, wh1ch had been have been in high school,\ he says. changed so late in the season, but penned up in the wall, .shot fort~ 40 Is Maximum consideration of the alterations was into the room. In the midst of th \The high school graduate goes recommended for the next season. st:ramble, Mr~. Gagn~n, the cook, to \Work at 18, and passes the maxi- The practice debate for the even- sent for the fire depaltment: mum of the untrained man within ing was on the topic of compulsory With the purpose of c·heclt~ng the seven years, rising steadily to his employment insurance 'by Federal spread of flames before the ~ll'ernen maximum of $2,200 at 40. He con- legislation. Carl Olsen, '36, and arrived, one of the three ftrefight-, tinues at that level the remainder Charles Honikel, '38, took the af- ers attached a garden hose to the: of his active life. His total earnings firmative and George Polansky, '35, ltitchen faucet and t~rned the from 18 to 60 approximate $78,000, and Seymour Horowitz, '35, the neg- stream ~n t~e conflagrCI;tlon. ~en- making the cash va:lue of his high ative. The decision was given to tually SIX. flre trucks, . mcludm., a school education $33,000 more than the negative side by a vote of two hook and ladder, arnved at the tho untrained man. to one. After the debate a general scene; but a single fireman t;aclted. \In the case of the college-trained discussion was held in accordance away eno~gh of the partition .to man, he doesn't start permanent with the usual procedure. make possible the complete extm- earnings until he is 22. Perhaps he Alpha Delta Phi (14) G Shepard ............... 3 Haskell ................ 1 Shields ................ 2 Little .................. 0 ·Hughes ................ 0 Doyle ................. 0 Snyder ................. 1 Totals ............... 7 Theta Nu Epsilon (11) G La:vorgna . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Thorne ................ 0 Kern .................. 1 Fraser ................. 1 Robbins ............... 0 Totals ............... 5 * * * 'l'hPt.IL IIPlltt ('Ill ( 16) (l M<\Kenzie ................. () Hei<·hal ................... ~ ('Iii Psi ( 1:\) G Htewart . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 T Mar~hall ....... ,, . ,, . ,, . ,, . 1 Sll'Oilg' .................... 3 6 Ha\\ley ................... 0 2 Byrne ..................... 1 4 Draper .................... 0 0 Clark , , .. ,, ... , ... 1 0 . Total~ ................... 7 l(apJUt ~ u 04) G. 0 l.Vluroff .................... 1 2 Berger .................... 0 14 B. Cohea .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . 1 li'ried1nan . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . • .. 2 T Olender . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . . 0 6 Woltl ...................... 1 O KeHslel' .................... 0 rl\otals .........• 5 3 • • • 2 l(apjla Si!l'lllll (IS) G 0 Hallstrom . . . . . . . . . . . ... , , . 2 [,irHlabury ................ 1 11 ll.a.nkin .................... r. 1' 0 4 Wilson ..................... 1 I .. eHtt'r ..•..•.•.••••••• 0 'l\utf.d~ ..•... , ... , •..•.••. 9 0 0 0 0 0 4 I•' 3 1 1 1 0 6 ]<' 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 2 Cbl l'sl (2ft') G 6 Hathaway ....... , ...... , .. 1 0 Orton ......• , ...... ,,, .... 1 0 Strong- ................. , .. 0 6 Byrne .. , .... , , ............ 1 30 Mm·shall .................. 4 Stewart .................... 4 p Total,; ................... H ~ .• * * 13 Tlleh~ Nu Epsilon (26) ·(~ 7 ThOl'IIC .................... 3 7 Kem ....................... 1 4 I.avorgna .................. 2 40 Uobinson ....... , .... , ..... 1 P :Robbins ... , ............... 1 ·8 E,raser . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 0 'l'otals ..................... 10 0 Delta U1>siloll (:!0) G 2 S<:hneiderwlnd ............ 4 3 Doves ..................... 0 0 Dean ............ , ......... 0 13 ·Everest .................... 2 Olson ....................... 1 p Stewart ................ , .. 0 s vosbei•g ................... 3 2 Bergstrom .......... , .... , () G Gammons ................. 0 o Totals ............... , , .. ·10 1 17 p 6 8 2 6 0 22 • • * Neutral~ tM G .:Uagui re· , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Enzer ................. ,., .. 0 Righthand ................. 0 'l'ruex. ..................... 0 Lee ....................... 0 Grieco .................... 0 ·Sip.hei· .................... 0 Patrie ....... , ...... ,, ..... 0 p B.oss ...................... 0 2 Borst ...................... o 3 Tota:Js ................... 0 6 Phi Sigma Delta (9) G o Gohl ............... ,, .... , 0 2 Salad ...................... 0 o Effron ..................... 1 2 Saiewitz .•••••....••.••.••. 0 15 Dworsky ............... , .. 2 p Ga1uten ................... 1 2 Totals .................... 4 1 2 * * • Pill Sigma Kappn (21) G 5 Van Auken ................ 2 0 Vande('ar ................. 3 4 Newmann ................. 1 o Hull ...................... 1 14 Maloney . .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. 2 Totals ................... 9 l' Psl Upsilon (20) G 4 (}ane .......... , , .......... 1 2 Duchscherer ........... ,., .. 3 10 Gatchell ................... 0 2 !;ltevenson . . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . . 3 0 ·Cadwallader ............... 1 18 Totals , ............•.... 8 guishing of the fii·e. earns some money while he is at- Smoke Fills House tending college. By the time he is Glee Club and Quartets To B1·oadcast Over WGY Halladay . , ................ 4 l'hilli)>i ...........••.••.... 0 F 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 10 (I II 2 VISIT THE ENLARGED TAP ROOM Within an hour after the fire be- gan the rest of the fraternity brothers came home to find their living room in a state of confusion and the house filled with the smell of smoke, Their opinion was that if the fire had started at night in- stead of in the morning, it would have had a sufficient start to con- sume the whole house. The cause of the fire was found· in the cellar where hot air escaped into the partition from some faulty masonry in the chimney and ignited one of the beams. ---0 Alumni Gift Fund Has Reached Total ()f $1GO,OOO (Continued from Page 1) ated in 1925, when 131 alumni con- tributed $3,122, it has increased steadily until it reached its height in 1933. During that year 1,190 contributors gave a. total ,of $8,710.16. However, in 1934, the can- vas sh.ows a slight decrease with the loss of about 150 donors; which is really negligible considering the depression. 28, his income equals that of the high school graduate at 40, .and it continues to rise without a break. $6,000 Average at 60 \The great difference,\ he said, \is that the college-trained man's Arrangements for a series of radio-broadcasts of programs by the glee club, its ensemble, vocal and Burnham .................. 0 Thoma:; .... , ........ , ..... 1 'fota..ls ................... 7 DeltJI. I'hl (30l n Bloom ..................... 3 I 1 Url•hase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Imrie ..................•... 3 F :l II 1 16 I' !I II GOLD'S SCHENECTADY'S POPULAR RENDEZVOUS F 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 F 0 0 3 0 0 2 5 ]<' 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 • Previous to 1925, the wllege was financed by a:n endowment cam- paign. However the plan of finan- cing a college by means of a gift fund has been adopted by a. major- ity of the colleges and universities today. Under the plan at Union, a donor ma:y designate the purpose of his gift, but the Graduate Coun- cil prefers to receive undesignated gifts in order that it may devote them to those purp()ses which the Council's more intimate knowledge of its needs requires . • 01--- DANCE EJiiUII:BIT The Smith College O!J,!lce Group will appea:r in a recital of dance selections on Tuesday night, Febru- ary 12, in the Mont Pleasant High School auditorium, under the aus- pices of the Smith Alumnae of Schenectady. Tickets are on sale in the News Bureau at $.50 and $1.00. .A section of th~ department wlter~ Chesterfield tobaccos are blended and cross-blended. Just what is meant by cross~blending tobaccos ... and how does it make a cigarette milder and taste better . • . THE STICK EM SISTERS! lovely gals! .•• the greatest pair of Clinging VInes that ever carne to lkollidge. Clever no encll Can mend and l<1bel bcoks, ma11nt paper on the drawing l:loaJ\d and help in countless other places wllore pcapor or cloth must be stuck to each other or to wood, cloth, glass or leother. Ask for 'em by nomt~ f C:HAS. M. HIGGINS & CO., 2719tlt St., Bkly11,11.Y, HIGGINS' DRAWING BOARD & LIBRARY PASTE MONDAY LUCREZIA JJOni 'WEDNESDAY LILY PONS SATURDAY ANDRE KOSTELANETZ 40 PiECE ORCEIESTBA K'.OSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS 9 P.M. (E. s. T.)-COLUMBIA NETWORK Well, t'n blending-you take two or more tobaccos and mix them tog-ether-a rather simple process. But cross-blending goes a step further . • • . I N making Chesterfields we take Bright tobacco from Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia and Florida. We take Burley tobacce> from Kentrrcky and Tennessee, and tobacco from Southern Maryland. Then in addition to these home- grown tobaccos we take tobacco grown in Turkey and Greece. We balance these mild, ripe home- grown tobaccos with the right amounts and the right kinds of aromatic Turkish. Then, instead of just mixing the tobaccos together, we blend and cross-blend them so that all the dif- ferent flavors go together into one full flavor-the Chesterfield taste that so many smokers like. Cross-blending tobaccos as it is done in Chesterfields gives the cigarette a p!east'ng ta.rte and aroma-they're mild and yet They Satisfy. @ 1935, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co. p 2 2 0 2 9 8 2tl 1' 6 2 7 2 2 6 25 .p 8 u 0 ·I 2 0 (j 0 0 20 I I 'I !

G F 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 4 1 4 0 ~ 1(~ F 3 0 1 0 2 8 1 0 1 0 2 2 5 G ]<' 4 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 G I~ 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 5 G 1<' 0 () 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 1 1 0 4 1 G F 2 0 3 2 1 0 1 0 2 1 9 3 G ]:o' 1 1 3 0 0 0 3 0 1 3 8 4 • the and dif- one taste p 2 2 0 2 9 8 2tl 1' 6 2 7 2 2 6 25 .p 8 u 0 -1 2 0 (l 0 0 20 p 2 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 5 1' 0 0 2 0 5 2 I' 4 s 2 2 5 21 p 3 6 n 6 5 20 r-· Dr: ~;r:;: • ·1 ...... Debaters tS To Meet ., To DelivE:r Amherst • I Speneer On Air Monday Lecture 'roni~ht 'I :L •• ~. •1111••••8 Vol. LVIII., N0. 34 Underclasses Show Increased. Numbers· On New Dealis List UNIO:N COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1935 G-irls, Men Debate L~ve l Columbia players -Wml, Lost, or Stolen . Have Spe cializ.ed, ln. Historic. Dramas; Argenti11e Jlisitor$ Hr. Marcl1 Entertains At ¥MCA l!'onu:n Discussion PRICE FIVE CENTS Story of Hudson River Is Subject Of l.~ecture Tonight Second Report Peiiod ·Mai'ks, Are Consistently Higher · Tha11 November !Ratings \Resolved: 'Tis better to have lo-ved and lost tha·n. never to have loved at all\ was the sub- ject for a debate last month be- tween Hobart and Wells College. 'rhe men of Hobart upheld the .poet's declaration, but the Wells gids• -expressed· skepticism. Group Who Will Give Payne's \Clari\ Have Revived Many Old Plays Using the ~pic: '\l'he Place of Fa1tn m Moderu Lite· as a spnng- boaxd from wu:ch t<> jump tu van- ous questwu::; oi ·religwn, philos- ophy, aiH.l ethicsc, ol) r. Jonn L. ~v!a1ch, Professor Morris of M. I. T. To . lJLOLe<J<>Or of .!Jtiycn-ol<>gy, regaled an. audience of e!;511LY otudents with speak on Geology of the · his dry, worlt11~· ..... .it1.Jcisms at the Hudson River Valley forum discussu>n :=;ponsored by the 17 New Men on List Telling the many beauties and advantages of love, the Hobart .team pointed that many men Organized iu 1922 Increased Rep1·esentation Of: Classes Indicates 6.5 Percent Rise · h.ad achieved greatness thrQ.ugh the inspiration of love. Their. fair ,opponents, on the other nand, cited the \deleterious ef- fects of amorous divertisse- ments\ both in .practice and the- cny. They deplored the tr·emen- d.ous economic waste involved, on account of the cosmetics put on by women at great expense only to be removed by the tess deadly of the species. Laborato1·y Players Fonned To Give Students Experience lrr Play Production The Dea:n's List for the second marking period shows a decided in- crease in, representation of the sophomore and freshman classeE over that of the first marking period. The present list has 68 sophomores and 45 freshmen against 58 sophomores and 38 fresh- men on the November -Jist. V/ho arc the Columbia Labora- tmy Players who will give two per· formances of John Howard Payne', celebrated oper·etta, \Clari o1· th! Maitl of Milan\ at Union College 011 .t<'ebruary 16? Thh; question 'ha• been asked repeatedly in Schenec· tady since the announcement f.irst appeared. A brochure entitleu \About Ourselve:o; a few facts con· This shows an increase of 4'12 per cent in the number of men from the cla:ss -of '37, 251;, per cent of the class being represented on the first Dean's List and 29 9-lQ per cent on the present list. In November 13 4-5 per cent of the freshman clas~ claimed distinction. The present average of 15 4-5 per cent shows an increase of 2 per cent in the num- bel' of men represented on the sec- ond pel'iod list. The complet!' Dean's List for the classes of 1937 and 1932 follows: A.fter the debate, which was held at Wells College, the audi- ence composed mostly of women, refused to vote on the winniug team. The refusea!, accordi..,-g to the Hobart Herald, was be- lieved to •be due to \school pride.\ , cerning the Columbia Labovator~ Players\ gives more than ample ex- . planation. P llilll Art Exh1•b. 1\t 'l'he Columbia players were · lo · · · -organized in the summer of 1922 b~ I ..., Old Gym Dorm., a group of students in the 1ehearsa .U course of the university extensior. CLASS OJ!' 1937 Schenectady College Woman's Club and College Present Works of Wolchonok Bachelor of Arts Beginning February 11, !l: collec- Burns F. Barford, Jr., Emile S tio11 of paintings will be exhibited Bartle, Arlington E. Baxtet·, Donald 'in the Old Gym Dorm under the H. Baxter, Fay B. Begor, Willian auspices of the Schenectady College K. Boyd Jr., Kenneth N. Brown. Woman's Club and Union College. Irving Brownstein, Paul Campbel Jl'., Jerome L. Cohen, -George C rhe exhibit,. which consists oi' land- Cummings, John C. Davis, John J ocapes and lndust1 ial subjects by Deveny, William F. Doney, Jo}jn B. 'Louis Wolchonok, comes here Dowling, Jr., Stuar-t J. Eisenl)erg. Robert D. Everest, Rush B. Favme thl·oup,-h the courtesy of the Ehrich- Fred Feldman, Joseph A. Field J.r. Nevvhouse Galleries of N<'\V Ym k Theodore Yt/. Fox, M. Froehlich Jr., where it aroused much favm·able Fenton A. Gage, Franlt B. Gatchel ,e:olnm(mt at a recent showing this Jr., John E. Glen, Guy A. Graves. Jr., William A. Grlesa:u, F. Helm, winte:. Jr., Marvin Katz, Wilfor·d A. c: Le· Mr. Wolchonok is an American Forestier, William P. Leonard, John a!:list of considerable experience af J. Marsella, James W. McKenzie, , 1 n etcher and painter. Born in Jr., Edward Milberg, J. Richard Mills, Roy c. Moon, Edgar L. Moul- New York in la9s, he was a mem- ton, Jr., Thomas D. Nolan, 0. J. :ber of the Art Faculty of the Col- Muller, William B. Myel', Willian. 'lege of the City of New Ym k frorr N. Owen, Richard E. Passenger, ,1919 to 1921 and is at present teach Frank D. Phillips, Jr., Dominic R Pitaro, Charles H. Reeves, Jame~: :ing the Craft Students' League. He of Columbia Univer:;ity. The stu dents had gathered in a laboratox~ in one of the buildings on the Uni versity campus and during the con versation it developed that thest y(mng people desired further actin• experience as a continuation o. their rehearsal course, First APIJea1·ance 1922 The outcome of the discussim wa:; the organization of the Colurn bia Laboratory Players, under th! direction of Miss Estelle H. Davis lectmer in English in Universit) Extension and Barnard College, am founder of the rehearsal course The filst public appeara:nce of tht group was at the Gr·osvenor Hous< :Settlement, New York City, August 13, 1922, in a group of one-act plays From this time until 1926, thr Players gave pet iodic appearances before local and downtow-n audi· ences in such plays a:s \Riders tc the Sea,\ \The Knight of the Burn- ing Pestle,\ \The D.scovery,\ \Mid· summer Night's Dream\ and a SeJ· ies of one-act plays written in tht classes in playwriting. Christian As so -cia ~10.11, W edne::H.lay · mght in the (Jid ·[; lmpel. Active in Research . \1 am not gcun~ to argue for oi· against faith or a...nything else, ·bUt 1 am in favor of c.ear tninking as agaim;t muudieheauedness.\ · Admittmg the postiibility of many meanmgs of tlle wo1-d faith, Dr. .March· uefined i.t a.s a vivid personal t.Jelief whicn ca.nn<Jt be proved and which one deti:IIes strongly to be- lreve. He exp£atn.Clt that faith ol chi.O ltintl. Wao UIUlOSl mescapeable Lll eve1yday ·hf e, .and that, lacking l.Oll.t;lUt:~lVe pruu£, u ... l.!te was somt justuicalion ot !UE n.o::;t widely a<:- ..:epteu Ja•tlls lJ n t lte has1s of prob- ability. Spe11cer Lecturer Has Done Extensive Field Work And Exploration Touring North America, Alfredo Wagener and Dinah Tagliaferri · ta,boveJ last week repaid the visit .vhich Robert North '36 made tc heir college in Buenos Aires last ;ummer. Smith Girls Will Give Dance Recital Student Group to Present Ot·iginal Corn~ositions On Tuesday Night The Smith College Dance Group .viii open their cun·ent touring sea- ;on next Tuesday when they give a :ecital at the Mont Pleasant Higl:: 3chool auditorium under the aus- pices of the local Smith Collegt ~'lub. The proceeds are for the $4CI.. 3Cholarship a·nnually awarded a ,tirl f10m this vicinity. After six yea1s of consistent suc- ~ess at Northa:rnpton, the Smith girls ventured fm th last year on their first tour, and so enthusiastic was the response wherever they played-Alba:ny, New York City, 1/Voreester, and Providence-that deman<l for their appeara:nce grew strong in most of the Smith College ~lubs throughout t.he country. Dr. March illustrated his point with the pr·evelant scientific view that the uni ve lSe b~gan some bil- lions of yea1s a.go and will end .dome .billions lleo.ce_ \What went oefore? What:. ·c<>m.es after? Sci- ence doesn't lto.ow. The Bible ;;;tated the same situation in smaller units.\ Dr. March assaulted all points of view impartla..ll)',. and atter· the meeting the ollhod.ox. 1 eligionists, the orthodox s-cientists, and the or- thodox atheists gathered around ,he genial .sen:.ior:- J>IOfessor in hot argument. ---<>•--- Debater-s to Meet Amhers1(lver WGY Argue the ()wnei.'Ship of Pub- lic Utilities; Contest Fourth In Cu1:r~ut Series The fourth in ~he present serie~ of eight radh debates will be held over station \VG'Y on. Monday, Feb- ruary 11 fr<Jn elev~n to twelve p. m. In this disctJ.ssion, a team cho- sen from the ::Phiioma thean Soc1ety of Union College will meet Amherst College. The U:ni<>n debaters will uphold the negative of the propos- !t!on \Resolved; t.hat the municipal- ltles should l1.ave the ownership of public utilitl~:\ 'l'he team from Amherst will spe~k for the affirma- tive. Charles Reeves, '37 and Joseph Woolman, '35 wlll argue the case for Union. All rivers have sto1 ies to tell, and the gtoly of the Hudson River will be the subject for the third Icha:bod Spencer Foundation Series, when Mr. Fr·ederiek K. Morris, professor of structural geology at Massachu- setts Ins~itute of Technology, speaks tomght at 8:00 p. m. in the Old Chapel on the topic \A Billion Years in the Hudson Valley.\ His lecture, which is the first one on geology which has been given under ~he Foundation, will be illustrated with lantern slides. FPw Know Story of Jiudson \Vhi!e many people know that sorne liven; are young and race through nauow canyons, and that others are mature and flow in wind- ing cour·~e:> through broad valleys few people of today know that th~ stoq· <Jf the Hudson River is a most surprising one, and that it has been destroyed and reborn, in part or in whole, several times. Professor :Manis, who is a geologist whose studies uf the Hudson river extend m·er twenty-five years, will describe how the valley miginated showino- its progress from a sha:tiow, salty sea, teeming with microscopic life to the lar·ge ri\•er system which no~ ~xi::>ts. He will explain in folk-Eng- lish without technicalities, how the river valley developed, and how the lar·ge flat terraces were formed along the river's edge, on which laz gc cities have now been built. Active in Research Mr. Morris, who has been con- n~cted with the Massa-chusetts In- stitute of Technology since 1927, is the author of many publications, and is an active field research workE>r. He rE>ceived his ;bachelor of arts dE\gree at the City College of New York, and his masters de- gree from Columbia University, where he has also been an instruc- tor and a research associate of the Museum. H. Riggs, George J. Riley, David J . received his training at the Coope1 Ring, Casimer W. Ruszk<>wski Union, a:t the National Academy oi Richard C. Snyder, Norman Stam- Design, and at the Julian Academy. ler, DavidS. Stark, George C. Stew- art, Frank L. Thorne, Francis E. Paris. The artist has had exhibitE Townley, Alan B. VanWert, Wilbtu, in group shows at the Los Angeles D. Walling. :Museum, a Chicago Institute of Art. BS In Civil Engint!erlng ·Whitney Museum, and Brooltlyn Vaden R. Butler. • Museum, and ha:; held displays of BS In Electrical Enginee:~·lng · llls own works at. the Ainslee Gal- George W. Hobbs, Richard M. eries in 1923: at the Milch Galleries Kelsey, Howard L. Knaak, William in 1928 and 1929, and at the Gr!;ln!! In the spring of 1926, when Columbia University was participa ting in the tercentenary celebratior of the founding of New York City, the Players were a;pproached b~ certain members of the faculty Witt 3. view to giving a revival of the first American comedy, Royall Ty- ler's \The Contrast.\ A cast waE- quickly r·eciuited from the ranks oi the organization and the perform- ance wa·s given on April 16, 1926 just one hundt ed and thirty-nine yeJ.r s after the pi emier of the pia;<> in the John Stuart Theater, New York. During the college year the Smith girls can leave the campus only for orief periods because of the heavy 'scholastic responsibilities which must carry in addition to this extra- curricular work. For this reason, their engagements are practically , •overnigh1\ stops. Next :Night at Utica , After playing at Schenectady, the ;Dance Group will dance at Utica . the following night. Later in the mox'lth the group will give recitals at New Haven and. at Northampton, Mass. The judges f(H' Monday's debate will be: Rev. J. L, Whitcomb, Rec- tor-Headmaster of Hoosac School, Hoosic, New York; Miss Robe1·ta McWade, ill!.stn~ctor in public speaking, NoLt 'I:\errace High School Schenectady, New Yorlt; and Mrs . Olla Rickett, <lebate instructor, Wil- bur Lynch Hl~h ·School, Amster- dam, New 'Sl'ot\lt. As official geologist, he has made three trips with the Central Asiatic Expedition of the American Mu- seum of Natural History, and it was on one of these trips tlla:t the rare dinosaur's eggs were discovered in the Gobi desert. In addition to his experiences in Mongolia, he has done extensive research work of his own, visiting parts of America, Europe, and .A.sia. Especially is he an ·authority on the geological and ~t 1mological history oj' Chinll, ll.lld has lectured extensively on this sub- ject. Re,•ive Early Plays <Continued on Page 4) Jentr.al Galleries in 1932. His paint- Ings hang on the walls of the Cleve- !and Museum, Nebraska Museum, Bibliotheque Nationale, Toledo Mu- leum, and have been exhibi-ted with the \One Hundred Best Amelican Pl'ints\ in 1&30, 1931, 1932, 193:3. ''The Contraf.t\ m~t with such un· qualified success that the Player~ determined to devote much of theh future time to the revival of earl:y Arr>ez-iean plays of merit. Colum- bia's dramatic library, the Con- 'rhe program in Sc::henecta-dy will be made up entirely of original com- positions of the students, and Miss Edith Bmnett, director and organ- izer of the group,. believes these to be very promising and different. ''They vary,\ she says, \from Dres- den China figurines to factory studies.\ The nex:t r-adio debate will take place with l!11.mi1ton College on February 25, ~a. result of a prac- tice debate held at the regular meeting c>f ·the- Philomathean So- ciety last M: -<Jnday evening in the Old Chapel at 7:00 p. m., Seymour Horwitz, '35 ll.Zid Carl Olson, '36 were picked. ~ 1·epresent Union. The subject 1:.o lle discussed is \Re- ··cALENDAR Tonight 8:00-Spencer Lecture, Frederick K. Morris, Professor of Geo- logy at M. I. T., \The Geology of the Hudson Valley,\ Old Chapel. Tomorrow 10:00-Daily Assembiy, Professor Dwight Van Avery. 2:30-Fencing Tournament, Union vs. Williams at Schenec- tady. S:OO-Swimming, Union vs. Roch- ester at Schenectady · Varsity Basketball - Union vs. Rochester at Rochester. Freshman Basketball-Union vs. ' Albany Academy at Albany. Varsity Hockey-Union vs. Ham- ilton at Clinton. Sunday 11:15-Sunday Servlc~ Memorial Chapel, Preacher, Canon Ber- nard I. :!3ell, Cathedral of St. John, Providence, R. I. 4::QO--Organ Recital, Memorial Chapel, Dr. Elmer A. Tidm.arsh :Moiulay 10:00-Student Body Meeting, Old Chapel. 7:30--Philomathean Meeting, Old Cha:Pel. U:OO-Ra.dio Debate, Union vs. Amherst, on WGY. Tuesday 10:00-Daily Assembly, Rt. Rev. Msgr. John. L. Reilly, Church of St. John the Evangelist 12:45-Ra.dlo Club Meeting, Room 21, ljllectrical La-bora- tory. (Continued on Page 4) Trustee of College Was De cora ted The group is larger than usual this year, having 25 regular mem- solved: that:. the several states should enact:. l~gislation providing for comJ}uls~ry- unemployment in- sur·ance.\ ~~ ·open forum will be held at the next meeting of the Philomathea.:n Society on the topic to be argueil. with Hamilton College so that the debaters will be aided in the prep.aration· Df their case. FC~r Distinguished Service , bers and eight associate members. in War The new n;~mbet·s ate chosen fdrom an apprenc1ce g1·oup, compose of 'The record of the Honorable scription of the action which Robert Porter Patterson, trustee of met·ited this award is described by the college, teads like that of a hero P. citation as follows: those who are advanced in profi- ciency in the dance. ta.ldng a correspondence coutse. \Robert Porter Paterson, major, Ticltets are on sale at the News Bureau in Silliman HalL Born in Glens Falls, on F!'brumy 306th Infantry, 77th Division. For · '''==========~====================':'1 12, 1891, he entered Union in the extraordinary heroism in action l'i Class of 1912 and was second high- near Bazoches, France, August 14, est scholastically during the fresh- 1918. Major Patterson, then cap- nan yea 1 ·. Affiliated with the Phi tain, accompanied by two non-com- Delta 'Theta fratei·nity, he was missioned offi~Jet·s made a daring elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and re- daylight reconnaissance into the ceived a scholarship to the Harvard enemy lines. He SUI'!;>r-lsed an Law School. Manager of basket- enemy outpost of superior nuin.bers, ball; member of the debating team and personally destroyed this out- and of The Con<:ordiensis, and vice- post. Later he encountered anoth:er president of the senior class, his in which one of his men w-as prominence in activities equalled wounded. The en~my advanced his pr<Jwess in scholarship. At their outpost, and Capta:in Patter- Harvard, Patterson received his son covered the retreat of his L. L. R and .graduated cum laude. patrol, during which he dropped H:e was selected president of the into a depression and feigned death, Barva.rd Law School Review, the in order to escape capture. He re- 'lughest honor which <:an .be at· mairted there until darlmess per- tained at that institution. mitted his return to the Americ-an Beginnirug· as a J>rivate in the lines.\ seventh infaniry of New Yorlt, Pat- Returning from the war, Patter- ,terson enlisted in 1916, was made son was engaged in law ill New C!Onsecutively a lieutenant, captain, York City, when he received the a.nd was finally discharged as a appointment by President Hoover ID:lajor. \For distinguished b1avery to serve as judge of the .United l:n the field,\ he received .the Dis States District Court of the South- . t.ingulshed Service 01'6Sii, The de· em District of New York. SOPHOMORES Competition ftn Business Manager of '\FHE CONCORDI- ENSIS\ is Oll-ell to n:~~mber of tlte cbi.ss o:f H9S7 _ There will be a Ineeting TONIGHT in the Publications Office on the second lloo1· lm Silliman Hall at '7:30 P, M. . This com}letition, open to all sopllomor('l> r~dless of exper- ience, Gffer,s the following advantages: 1. An OllJlorlunlty to make vulua.hle (lOJ!lla.octs with business m~n. 2. PossibUitles of advancement to positl~:ms of ca.mpus leader· ship. 3. A good backg,.•ound for salesmanship, a.tl ad\ertlsing ca1-r, nnd general business adnlinlstra.tlon. 4. Monetary- re'vard for your services during y--our senior year. n yon. cannot attend the meeting tonJgiit .~ Wm. 11. Fitz- gerald at the Delta UpsUon House. ACT NO\W! Competition ope11 until Friday- F'ebruary 15. ----•0•---- Prof essor M a I e D 1· a w s His Text From Ash Can What seemed at first to be a.n ex- p<Jse of the great national pastime, the reading of the weekly comic strip, turned out to be a talk on \Symetncal Development\ Tuesday morning, when assistant professor Charles T. Male in the Field of Mathematics spoke in daily assem- bly. Unlike the present-day preache1· \who draws his sermon fl'om the barrel,\ :Mr. Male said he had talten his text from the \ash- can,\ and with these words drew fcrth a page of comics· depicting the tl'oublesomG experience of \Sappo\ 'and \Professor Wbatasnozzle\ with an artificially overgrown nose. Assistant professor Male suggest- . ed that students make a \looking glass\ .analysis of themselves, stat..: ing that the individual can \see bet- . ter those undeveloped qualifica- tions\ than another person. There is need for a growth of a sense of values he said, and he pointed out as an example that of all the things that people laclted during the de- :pression, It was a sense of humor. '\You can make this analysis yourself,\ Mr. Male asserted in closing, \you ca:n devel<~p grace, a sense of appreciation of all those things which have been handed to you-that sense of appreciation thai we most ignore. .An average of 95.5 won't measure you. It is tell meas· ure of how much you have develop- ed that goes to mnlte rou a mu.n.\

Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1935 STUDENT BODY MEETING <!loltlll ~irnzis There is bnt 01~e way to have a successful student body meeting-that is to bring up something of interest to everyone. For two THE COLLEGE WORLD By FRED FELDMAN This is a story a man might and glorious. He hesitated another ' AROUND THE. W. · ORLD ··.[· i · By RIC1IARJ> SNYDER Captain Nishimura of the Japan- ese Ganera:l 'Staff has arrived in Finland to study cmidiUons• for two yeArs. He is· .promised every scrap of secret infor:mation available on military operatiQn::J. and protection. This visit is significant when It is realized that the Finns hate Russia, Japan's chief 'enemy. \A Cmtsa l'ersa Parole .1 ssai\ FOUNDED 1877 MEMBER: or three meetings the topic .of discussion was dream a:bout, or might crea:t as he . minute, his hand went to •his vest centered about .a praposal to change the lies abed before s:leep comes and to finger his· key,, as he wa 11 wont lets his fancy romp and play m air to do when he was perplexed, found method of nominations .for the Student castles. The plot is certainly I>Ot . nothing there but a tight, slender original-its only vi·rtue, that it is chain, and then he Walked into the ~sodated @'ollegiatt ~rts5 .... , 934 (i!Dn;;;w;:JDuJ~t 193s ~ MADISON WISCONSIN Council. After the sheH had burst, calm almost totally lacking. The story is main room and sat down. only an expansion of a little item in He sat and he watched the 'slow Solt~ :ttlll Exdu..,ivP Xntional .Adverti~ing Il~?prP­ ~Plll'atll't'. :--::~tinual A<lvt•rlhing ::l~rvi<·e, Iue., 11 \\'e\t l~IHI St •• :>;. Y. C .. 4UU Nu. :\lldllguu A\'e., Chil'ac;u, Hli uuis. reigned when a committee was appointed to a new,;paper-its only value, that rt dancing and he heard the slow might just ·barely come true mu~ic, tremulous to his ears just * * * look into the 1natter. Until that committee Jim~y was sa.'d. That 1~,' ·the then, and he sat and he half closed . OS~Wald Pirow, minister of.defense b . h Jimmy of a few summers ago, his eyes and watched a girl who, for the Union of South Afi'ica, has The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and F!idays threughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. SU nuts its report, t ·at issue will be a dead strolling, like this Jimmy, gradually strangely, had ·the same forehead notified the British government one. and wearily and rather prosaicly· and the same lips and the same that any attempt to force this Eng- -· . down this beating Broadway on a flushed cheeks .of the girl who had ·!ish colonial possession into war Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-414.1 i\Ionday's n1eeting· presents several issues Saturday evening in August would floated on Broadway. She passed would be rejected with possible civil have been sad. Sad and a little. unescorted past his table twice, and revolt. \Vhich will .provide interest to the student lonely for something, as we all at the third .time he got up and asked * * * times are lonely aud wistful for a her to dance. They waltzed to the When Adolph Hitler ascended to Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Cla::>s Mail Matter ----~----------- ------- Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. body. The mattet• of l'eappol'\tionment of the something--a something. Up to a peaceful song, and thoUgh he told power in Ger.many,-many believed few days .ago, J·immy had been a himself that the high forehead on that the independence of the Polish two upperclass boards on the Student Coun- college professor--assistant profes- her was a mistake and he ought to :Corridor would be jeopardized. On '1 h ld · t th h sor of Economics, and third assist- know better, he was thrilled. And the co:ntral'Y, non-aggression pacts Cl S OU Ill erest e present SOp omore and: ant head of the soci!iil studies divi- though he knew it was trite, and have been signed with Poland and junior classes n 1 ore than the· class of 1935. sion. He had been-rather too marked as such on freshmen Eng- tariff wars between the two nations sternly for a nature Uke Jimmy's-. !ish themes, he was thrilled by her have ·ceased. Wilhelm Goering, one Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board There is no valid reason for the predomi-' Dr. James V. Doury then. Now, if nearness, and filled with a tender of Hitler's right hand men, returned it was all right for a college profe~- longing. She pressed closer and from a recent trip to Wavsaw with nance of the senior class over the other three sor to step back and down a few soon they were sitting at his table the assured, good-will of the Polish years, he wanted to be Jimmy drinking wine. people. The Ger:man citizenry re- 011 the Student Council. again. There was uo one to see, of Her eyes were gay and her gard this as a master diplomatic Another issue of importance is that of course, and in a .day or so he could tongue witty and her head· tossed achievement. Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief < '!1 i 1':-;i Lodge -·1-6;,:!7 Joseph A. Woolman .......... Managing Editor Kappa :-.ou Iluuse-·1- <331 William H. Fitzgerald ...... Eu:;iness Manager ]l~:lta t:IJ:::i:lou IltlUSL.'-· !-7~~~ Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor be a pro~essor again. JJoguishly, He ordered more wine.: * * * · h Fol'mer War Minister Zlateff of method of payment of the Ter·I·ace Counci'l· He fingered, for a moment, the She lifted her eyebrows when e square golden key that fell on a had finished his second glass of Bulg&ria, who was one of the chief keys. In the issue of May 12, 1934, The Con- thin golden chain from his lower wine, and he thought of the other .leaders of the opposition party in vest-pocltets, and then lifted it the two men she had walked between the current government ()risis was Kappa ::-\u lluU,L•--l-7il:ll Thornton W. \Vhipplt> ..... Circu)ation Manager t'hi 1'...,1 l~lHlge--4-G:J:!I Junior Boal'd Vedder M. Gilbert. ............. Feature Editor l-'~i l Ti1~\luu llow:iC-·1~~710 ---------------------------------- ASSOCIATE EDITORS John D. Andc1son Albe1t H. Stevenson Robert C. North VanVechten Trumbull M. Bedell S. R. Cohen R. Doolittle F. Feldman Wallace T. Foote Sophomore Boa1·d Assistant Editors ·w. Ferguson F. Gage C. Garrison G. Hasltcll vV. Horstmann R. Passenger R. Snyder N. Stewart I~Ssue Editor ........ \'an\' ech ten Tt·umbull Assistant Issue Editors Col'diensis charged the present Terl'ace Coun- few inches required to put it in one on Broadway, and he lowered his rewarded for his change 0 ~ heart by of those pockets bedide his watch, own. He absently pulled on the appointment as Premier of the cil as follows: so that the slender chain stretched taught chain across his vest, and· newly ()rganized cabinet. \Are you going to be content with running the Block U Dinner? Or are you going for- ward into new fields to set an example for future Terrace Councils?\ Since then, the supervision of the Block U Dinnet· has passed into the hands of the Stu- dent Council, and the Terrace Council, once as mighty on the campus as the Rock of Gi- brultm·, has assumed an enti1·ely honorary position. All of which is fair enough. But, we have a Terrace Council that sports ektb- orate keys, costing- in the neighborhood of * * * from -lower· vest-pocket to lower fingered the square key that fell Secretat·y Ickes of the Depart- vest pocket in an almost straight out of his vest-pocket, gle;:tming in ment of Interior is now one of the line, taut against the cloth. the subdued lights. She saw it, anu most hated· men in the present ad- He threw an idle glance at a girl he thought her eyes filmed suddenly ministration. He has attained this who beckoned w1th half-lifted quiz- and unexplicably as she put down unfortunate distinction by being z!cal eyebrows and barely-turned the thin goblet she was ·holding, fearlesJ> and refusing to play petty head, noted that she didn't look like spilling just a little of the purple politics. Congress· is disgusted With what her eyebrows said she was, wine on the table, and sat back and him J>cecause he will not consider thought that the high forehead and looked beyond him. patronage with regard to the new clean features were a mistake in Then she smiled the same half- $4,000,000,000 relief bill. Some ob- the girl or the girl was mistaken in smile, twitching her lips, that h< ::>ervers feel that the pressure of this not using them, saw her float fa- had smiled when he had first seen opposition ma.y force him to resign miliarly between two other men, her come and go on Broadway. in the near future. twitched his lips in a way, indiffer- \I guess we both belong to the * * ,. ent, pocurante half-smile, and turn- same club,\ she said, and took from Among the questions discussed by ed off at 42nd street. her bosom, on a slender golden. the recent Anglo-Franco parley was R. Cohen H. Snyder Friday, February 8, 1935 N. Stewm·t six dollars apiece, which were paid for by the Student Council from funds provided by the student tax. He looked at the sign outside the chain around her throat a smaL whether or not President Franklin dime-dance hall, and Dr. James square golden key, that trembled D. Ro<Jsevelt should be challenged Doury, Assistant Professor of Eco- for a moment as it dangled from: to end his monetary dilly-dallying nomics and Thursday lecturer, hesi- her fingers, and then swayed slowly and enter Into a dollar-pound-fiatl.c tated for a moment, and then back and forth, and spun slow!~ dtabilization pact. Jimmy walked through the open 'round and 'round,-and the seduc- door, through another closed one, five lights and music touched it, ~ ~ and into a room where lights picked out on one side the words gleamed low and music was soft \Phi Beta Kappa\ and on the other. The Grab Bag and gentle and girls were dusky \Radcliffe 1919.\ ~=======.; THE VALlJE OF PUBLI('ITY \'elT often credit is not given where credit is due. Such is the case right here on tht: campus where a certain agency under the name of the News Bmeau pel'fm·ms many functions for the benefit of the college which usually go unheralded. The general campus conception of the News Bureau is that its duty is to write to the home town paper when a student makes the Dean's List or i:; elected to some campus position. If the function of the News Bureau stop- ped there, there would be hardly enough wot·k to keep one person busy five ot· six days a 'veek. Instead, that ag-ency has developed into such an important part of the machinery of Union College that now two people are at work full time, three students write articles for the News Bureau and six FERA helpers are employed~and still the News Bureau is swamped with work. What is the answer? It is simply thi.s,- the routine work has g-rown to such l)l'Opor- tions that Unioli is receiving- more publicity now than it has ever received before. Every time some member of Union's family mal\es a speech, articles are written l.Jy the News Bureau staff and the.se articles are then re- leased to 11ewspapers; the numl.Jet· of papers to which the stories are sent depends lat·gely on the importance and subject matter of the address. Every public act of each student, member of the administration, or member of the faculty is 'covered' with the aim of pub- licity for the college. Added to this, the task of handling· the publicity for undergraduate otganizations, is very important to the college, especially in the cases of those org-anizations which per- form out of town. Arrangements for bt·oad- casts of Union College activities are ()ften made by the News Bmeau. Other form.s of publicity, all of lasting- benefit to the college, are handled through this agency. When the roll of honor for Union College is compiled, it would be a g-ross mistake to omit the News Bureau for its oft' unheralded contribution to the progress of this center of learning. We feel that a desirable readjustment Week's Best Editorial could be made in this matter. If the Terrace ·II PUNCTILIO ll Council is to be an honorary body, member- '....;;;============;;;;;;;..! Discouraged about your grades 'i ship on the council should be sufficient Bad breaks? Dirty trick? Unfair FORGET IT recompens.e for services rendered to the stu- dent body. Let the Terrace Councilmen pur- chase their own key,s, and permit the Student Council to devote the fifty dollars to some more worthwhile cause. The Alpha Delts have gone in for competition? the dramatic life this week. Three In ten years, in a year, wlll it of them are cavorting on the Civic matter? Players' stage as the merrie men of Maybe you didn't make your Robin Hood. The show is opening grades for initiation. Tough on the tonight and will be played tomor- society, but you'll come through all row !lit matinee and evening per- right. formances. While one of the scenes Maybe you just missed your B was being whipped into shape, the average which-well, it's nice tt director said, \Yo·u leave the stage have. in this order.\ And then the list was Perhaps it means you miss an given, but when she came to \out- honorary-and save a few dollars. laws\ the word \outlaws\ the word But again it :may mean real hard- stuck on he1· tongue and some one ship-the loss of a scholarship, or a TWO MORE LECTURERS piped up, \Alpha Delts.\ Since then recommendation, or a job. Sherwood forest has been a second Even to the last, we repeat-what The addition of Dr. John A. Krout, profes- chapter house. will it matter in a year, in ten * ., * years? As soon as we say it, we ... When Dr. Fox answers the teleph<Jne, he almost invariably :;ays Mister Fox speaking\. He is, by the way president of the college, and the laugh come~ when we call .:lome of the younger instructors who have very recently been a- warde<l degrees; and hear, in bank- PI esident tones, \Doctor.. Zilch .:!peaking\ A new hat, it would deem, generally fits tightly. * * * ... Headline: \Professor Male draws text from ashcan\. At last an honest rnan; a man not afraid of criticism. For years we have suspected the source of · .these .:lpeeches, now we know. Instead of paying that New York service com- pany, the ones who send !a stock speech with blanks to be appropri- ately filled, let us take the trail of Professor Male and \get them at the mine\ so to speak. * * * sol' of history at Columbia University, and repent. It may matter, of course. An R. P. I. sophomore wants to It can be made to. It may mean Dt•. Ralph W. Sockman, minister of Christ know if double clutching in an stinging you to work, to making ... The Skidmore News informs us Church in New York City, to the list of Icha· automobile means necking. your opportunities and then taking :that many of our present words are * * * them; it may mean letting you sin!- parts of earlier words, thus: \Gin bod Spencer lecturers announced for this Those of you who read both this into the morass or mediocrity. It all was first clipped from Geneva in · depends, of course, on how you take 1714\ and \Brandy was first clipped year, gives us an opportunity to obtain a column and Farrago are hardy r't. from :Brandywine in 1657\. A:h, yes. souls. You may have noticed that A b1·oader insig·ht into what is g-oing- on in two my colleague signs his effort with a Not that grades themselves are nd both have been moved to 1 · f · Th important. They're the vestiges of Albany Street. mOl'€ fields from men Wh() are distinguished arge vanety 0 inittals. · ert;l is .an outgrown educatr'or1al philo- * * * method in his particular madness, \'\ d t d th th · in these fields. Dr. Krout, speaking on \The for if you take all of these letters sophy. But what they do to you- · · · · ne un ers an at e big m- . d hi what you let them do to you-is im- · itial man of the hockey squad has R . f S t · A · \ M h 27 \11 m the or er in w 'ch they appeared b :f 'bl d ~lse 0 por Ill menca on arc ' WI * * *you will have a message of a portant. Until education is able to theent 'torcr by removef,_rurnor being t l t · · th f' ld f h\ advance past the conf1'nement of A, a 1 was ecause o Immoral con- presen an unusua OplC Ill · e 1e 0 IS- rather private nature. But he says d t N 1 k t ' It's all over now. B, C, and 50, 75, 100, it does matter uc • 0 P n · ea party, a hockey tory. Dr. Sackman, on theh other hand, will what effect the system of grading season not only hardens the phys- d · th d d · h 1 * .. * has upon the students. · ique but also the language and gen- lSCUSS e mo ern tren Ill t eo ogy in his Trial: E. R. Hauptmann is being With S{)me, it results in their era! ()Utlook of the boys-and after lecture on \Morals in a Machine Age\ which tried for a felony. The charge is working just for the grade and los- the way ·they idolize the Rangers, accidental homicide while breaking ing the essence and the flav(}r of I :tnight say \and not only that, he will give on April 23. and entering ... to steal baby the course. It makes apple-polish- but-\ These new additions increase the fot'lllid- clothes, says the State. ing and cribbing inevitable in the * * * The Flemington Rotary Club is college scene. n sometimes gives ... T'he Union Plan having been ible array of noted lecturel'S to five men who selling souvenir ladders exact dupli- the teacher a distorted viC\v of his adoptEd, with much publicity, and are the most outstanding group of Ichabod cates of that figuring in the trial. own course. every.one being required te> do 25% Great stuff, fine thing! But the grading system is here.· more worik, whatever that means, Spencer lecturers the college has seen yet. * * * And the students have to take it. we have decided to squawk at last. T h 1 d 1 t d W One of my operatives (I've got an- Discouraged about your grades'? Most instructors have decided that wo ave a rea y ec ure ' alter s. Pach other one) reports that the Smith Forget it, the way to do it is to- tack. on on modern art, and Dr. Rexford G. Tugwell . College dancers had a lovely poster Remember those books you dis- little quizzes a.nd give ten more on the bulletin board. The picture covered and liked last semester? pages on the assignment, losing on the background and phases of the New thereupon was of a very satisfac- Remember all you learned that no sight of the fuct that the quality Deal, and they have g·iven inspired talks on tory young lady clad in diaphanous one quizzed you on, or ever will? of the existing work is open to 1m- garments. Said operative was all Remember the ideas you've only provement. Of course I'm not refer- their respective subjects. Tonight Professor set to swipe the pix. for his cow touched as yet and not explored? ring to that 35 page French asslgn- Fl·ederick K. Morris will present an aspect barn art gallery where he has sev- That's right. Remember fun, and ment, but how about trying a lit- eral other choice specmiens. How- friends, and real learning. Forget tie qtiality instead of carrying more of quite a different field when he speaks on ever, some other vile-minded person the grades. coals to Newcast-no, lets not use the \Geolog·y of the Hudson Rivei' Valley.\ was faster on the uptake and my -Syrawuse Daily Orange. that. Let's say, \instead of bring- roan found a bare bulletin board. ing a. pencil to Hygiene\. Since the committee under the direction He has confided to me that he sus- * * * f pects a well lm()wn figure on the Notes On Our ~ .. And as the boys say about 0 Dr. William A. Bennett has done such a faculty but cannot imagine where C Sunday Chapel, \Until the next remarkable job in obtaining these renowned the latter keeps it. If any of you ontemporaries time 'When, possibly we may tune in readers know of any good speci- Fair Harvard again.- men as lectm•ers under the Ichabod Spencer mens of barroom art just let me The total number of books in GEEBEE Foundation, it behooves us to avail ourselves know, I'll pass it on. the Harvard University (Cam- * o~ * bridge, Mas.s.) library is now 3,602, of the unusual opportunities :presented. It pains me to see that Es, Es, & 04.0-the largest university library These men will, in addition to theil• lectm·es, Bee had to descend to pUel'ile per- in the world. Exactly 126,935 books . sonalities which are unworthy of and pamphlets were added to its speak 111 the daily assembly exercises, and n.ote or answer. shelves in 1933-34. will visit the class rO()ffiS in which they are Next week this column may con- Go()d! especially interested. tain a pleasant surprise, A world educational conference J, B. D. will be held. in 1937 in A.ustt·a.Ua. • • • The Intellootual Chinese The largest delegation of students from any foreign country to the United States comes from China. • • • Ah 1'1tere, Hawaii! The territories of the United States, l.J:a wail, and Puel.'to Rico, all Jn.alntabl land-grant colleges. = I ' y va se' Y1 th Vii Ri c~ ar VI Ot VE qt fi< hl w

·.·[· ER e Japan- In two scrap on It is Russia, f.defense has Eng- war civil ended to believed Polish ized. On pacts land and o nations one returned saw with Polish re- iplomatic of the chief party in rlsis was by of the Depart- of the ad- this being petty sted With consider the new ob- of this to resign cussed by was Franklin hallenged the He is, college, n we call been a- in bank- .. Zilch it would Male At last afraid we have of ·these of com- !a stock appropri- trail of them at us words are bus: \Gin in clipped ' . .A:h, yes. moved to big in- has being con- a hockey the phys- and gen- after Rangers, that, been and to do 25% means, at last. cided that tack on ten more nt, losing quality pen to 1m- not refer- asslgn- a lit- more not use of bring- about the next tune in EBEE students to the China. United Rico, THE CONCORDIENS.IS, PRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1935 = Bask~eteers Seek Se-cond! Victory Over Upstate :Team· S P 0· R T S L I D E S Stalwart ·Defense of Red Raiders Stops Winning Streak of ·Garnet Yearlings --- . - Y 11 • · · Ma:kofsld Cagers Clinch Duel who once more came through with e' O:WJackets Have Shifted Lineup .in ''Jry for Win· his usual smooth~playing game, · • · g C b • t• G t 1 d -n ·• d · By MILTON A. BERGER In Dying Minutes Of shared honors with his brother mn ·. om ma Ion; arne 'nva et~s ..£1.'Jme. to I Thrilling Contest Paul who was the spark of the Red Upset Opponents' Home-Court 1\.d·va.ntage ' teams defensive .play throughout <® J!..;;=====================;;;;:;;;;;;:;;=====-.!.' the contest. Tomorrow nigJht at Rochester the·- . . · -- By HYMAN ENZER Garnet Takes Lead varsity basket:balHearn will seelt its Boeke~ :s· , d T ' Followers of Coach Nitchman's charges in the court wars are in- '\\' ·~ w1··tn '-'vr acu e '- e tl th 1 b k f these parts as the \most exciting n · e ·rs perlO ta · ies by second V'l 'ctor·y of '\'e year· over the . , · .' 1 .q .. l,'la ·0 dulging plea8antly in the speculation that per hap· s that. little tussle What will pro.ba:bly be known in I th fi t · d 11 Yellowjackets. Three weeks .ago F· , }l· . , -'lt so >O'J • s ' re recen Y was ·· e ast set ac o the Garn,' Johnny Schultz and Phil Duch- the Gar.net won its f!rs.t court ~ a~ce ' ';o·,rn:l: on ' . IX· quintuplets this season. But it seems that there are a couple of minor basketball game of the year\ was. Scherer accounted for Unions lead. U matters to b att d d t t Th · th t · pluyed Wednesday night on the T victory m two years agamst the · e · en e · o ye . ere 1s a appomtment with Roch- he Mont Pleasant team, however, ester· on the m \b t b t • Mont Pleasant ·High court where R ivermen here b.Y a 42 to 32 ,;core. ~-- · · orrow. u we ea em 42 to .32\ oux· optimist is l{ept at a close distance behr'nd as t 1 t Of f · the formidable Union freshman That game was .featured by Un·l'Oll ~~'~'·ter:<> 1.· 11<''r'·l'l· Tt')' For·· sme 0 .goa· course, o course, frgmes don't li<>, (except the time . the game progressed. Union scored .::J ·-• \' .,., we \011. ·hed o!'f R p 1 61 t 1.1 1 t b qumtet battled the championship Captain Ray I\icDowell's 16 points · \' \ · · · ·• • o · , on Y <'> ::mecum ourselves in the very few goals as did the high team, a nd the fine defensive playin\ at· Second Wilt, Af,ter Defeat r·etum engagement, 42 to 40). Mont Pleru;ant five, lo~ing by the but many fouls were missed· the \' Aft ~~ h t u· 1 ... T score of 20 to 19. The contest • V an Waldron. Union led through- By· 1 1!.11! ... 1 ·~(Jl~b ... 11 .y, 1-_ 1 . 'e\ · oc es er comes .,... · ~. he Technology boys .have a _, d d excitement of the crowd had 1 ·ts ,,...~ tx \\ ... '± 1 t t t 1 1 k 1 •·h h · proveu an ·teste the mettle of the out although the visitors made 8 o co ·ottg l 1 uc . rht'rntem.rort· t e htime that they decided they had Garnet yearlin~;s. marked the effect on the men trying free vain ·bid to pun up in the third. a t•ew goo( enoug o en er t e Intercollegiate Rt>gatta. Ho . throws. In the final period, with th t ·1 · h 11 spuited and vigorous comeback of h quarter. Both .teams scored 12• Tomorrow aftemoon the varsit:r : ~\Y ~pen,, a pte or money on s e s and sent a crew to Pough- the Red Raiders and pictured for t e seore 17 to 12 in Union's favor, field bask.ets .but. the Dutchm.en. hockey teanr , .. ,. 11 ~leet tile '\'·am· lteepste. Ihe ~ay. of the races came arotmd and by .the time the th f U . , f the home team put on its last \ ~ .u · fre~ru a a d It t t · e ans nwn s uture varsity t held a decided edge in free throws,· ilton sextet. u. t Clinton· in an at u n n JUIUOl\-vars Y es s were ovl\r the water had bt>come basketball teams. spur to win the game. with 18 to their ·opponenls' 8. ' tempt to armt\'x it~ second victor) cllut}IJY and the sl;.y o'\·ercast. Well, the big event finally began and Tomorrow night the Garnet team U. of ·R. Lineup Shifted of the seaoon. '\'Veclne~day th~ eigilt or nine shells moved down the river at a fast clip. Lil{ewise Whether the !5arne Wednesday ~ith per~aps a different star.tjng Coach Louis .1\olexander of Roch- Garnet slmters 'lost th~ir third con-· the liver· moved ovt'r the shells. Not rigged for rough-wffith<>r n·ight really decided the supremacy lmeup, Will meet the Albany Boys ester has s~ifted h.is ~ineup in. ar., lest tl!rs :oe~,on to the Mitlttlel>Ur) work, tlle M. I. '1'. craft sank to the botrom of the mighty Hud£,on vf the high school, whieh annexed Academy five at the Academy at attempt to fi.nd a vvu;uung combm:>- team at Middlebury, 4 to 1, in thL as dill tiU\ee others. But thfii New York Times, The Daily Nt\w~ its 16th victory of this season, over 8:45 o'clock. tron and h1s starting . team ~1!1 pla)off of the ga.me which hac\ and the Boston Herald listed the 'l'ech eight in last .position when the fre.,hman is a question that still ;;;;;;;;;=:;;;=:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:r, probably s_ee Craytor al cent.et·, w1th, originally bee cancelled. . the :~·~stilts were a1mormced be.cau~ they sank first. rtmain.s unanswered. The supel'ior 1r B . k 1 t r· t The Engineers or bett th B · play of the cubs until the last ft've A'TTENTION SENIORS Han.s r1n er, as. years li'S Hue:o Bergn~a-n scored the on. 1 ,, · · • · · · er · e eaven;, may rrnpr·ove their luck. AI· . . . t k t t - \ though they have d d th t'lt · minutes of the game indicated the strmg cen er wor. mg ou a ~. goal tor l!Jnlon in the first perioo . · I oppe · ree cage 1 s m a row, they lost by onl~ R~gister Nolu for guard :post. The other guard post· on an asslst.kornCaptain Bill Jen-' one .pomt to Vermont, .who in turn, lost to Union by the same margin Gar~et's potential strength, hut the ·• tion will be held ·down by e1the1 kins. The M·l._.<ir· e<' \Cor·e\ canle 1 .n ... wh1ch means nothmg one way or the ·other. Next on the schedu·le uphill fight that was waged by the SoutbNn Positions .., \ \ ~ H charges of \Sig\ Makofski indi- · A · t d T h McCulley or Maliborski. \R_ed' the second and third periods when comes . an:;ilt<;>n at Hamilton. Coach Max Weber's boys have amassed ~ ssocra e eac ers' Agt>ncy Blowers, forward~ who has fatlec Mal Swett, Dud· l'llinney, and Wes- 212.points m four contests, and ave1age of 53 a game. They have held ~ated the gt·eat reserve power of a Deland, Florida to show the scov1.ng ,punch h? ex- ton tallied', :hl'nlon:s game was con- theH opponents to about an average of 21 points a game. Also they team that was seemingly beaten. ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hibited last year, has .been relieved· ::;iderably weal~ened oy the loss 01 beat -Roctester·, 58 to 27, which is a ptetty big score even if the game Only I<~levpn Played by Va:n Gro.afland, w1th Exeter· at Bergman and ·Liftle, who were in- was played on Hamilton's box court. Tommy Pugh is high scorer with Only eleven mt>n were used the othet· forward post. , jured dm•ing the conte:ot. 71 pomt>< \4 games), clu:;ely followed by Capta·in Bill Weld. Together throug-hout the Pnti;e game by both .Although Union was cleatl) · they totalled 35 points against Rochester, 28 against H. P. I., and 34 learns, and the play of e:1ch was superior in the .first contest here,. UamiltO>n· lle~orcl Good against Hobart. A migrating little birdie from up North is spreading like the working of a part of a tomorrow .nigh.t's. game is by nc The Clintoniles have fat ell bet lei t~e r.umor .that Pugh is int>ligible this semester. l.f so, buy for a quick machine. Grant Smith of Union means \in the bag.\ The Garnet than the Union team thus far this ruse rn UniOn, prefened. was by far the most outstanding is not a strong travelling team a,- season, losing t<> Durmouth, 3 to o. Nt'xt comes AmhN-si, t::(' last of the little Three. They are man on the fleer that night. Nol was indicated by its one-point and to AI\Xny. 2: to 1, in overtime mrdefe:1ted, holding vktOI·ies ov<'r Springfield. Swarthmor<' Mass only did he hold one of the highest victory ovet· a mediocre outfit and pei·iods, .anddefeating.M. I. '1'., Mid- State, 'Trinity and Clark. Last·yea.r they beat Union, and the tilt scoring men in the New York the .Stevens set-to which luckil~ N h was snatched from the fire in th( dlebury, and M:assachusetts State. here should be one of th<' best of the season .. Afte1.• the Lord Jeffs • ort eastern league scoreless until second half. The earlier in tht: Wednesday, t:tle Cadets barely won cotnes th~ R. P. I. game at Troy. Overconfidence is responsible f(}J: the last few minutes of the contest, game the Dutch.men become ac- their contest vvitl! the Hamilton six, the startlmg tabl:e-turning act two years ago. . This time we ll~pe but he formed the brunt of Unions elimated to the Rochester court the s·coting the ·winning goal in an the Dutchmen will g<>t .off their high honre when besieging Troy attack. g reater the chance ·Of duplicating overtime peti.()d. They might profit by the example of Ulysses who hid his men with: Carl Heiner shone for the victors Hamilton's linel.lp contains sev- m· tl!e anl1nal lead1'ng th h · tl 1 ' last month~s victory_ · e 0 arge Ill 1e ast period Coach Nels Nitchman will un- eral football Inel'l. includiilg Me- ---------------:--------------- tha_t secured the game for the Kenzie, Rhule, Massoth, and Jone;;, Rarder·s wt'th · ht · t doubtedl'r start his usual lineup N u 4 • etg pom s to his \ all of whom are expected to play es e, c · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2 0 name T d p ct.b' 1 k' f ~~d'P~~::'•.,'lt,';;:\]n ~h.M:.:'..:..~l tomon·ow. EU<o\ will probab<y IntramUral Basketball ~ufh• g ............... 4 o ! . • o '\' ' o Union, berths:, Van Waldron at center; start in the go'3lie's cage for tlle ;. ~atier, g ........... 2 0 28 Bufi and 'Blue vvith Jones and Leagues 0 al · · · · · · · · · · · ..... 14 0 Jack Moffett and Ralph Semerad, Massoth in the- defense positions. * * * guards. ' Edwards, elusive and craclt-shot Deltrl Cbi. (ll) G F p THE ACME ---o~--- center, will pl&y in l!is usual post • Kearns, f · · · · · · · · · • · • · • 0 Garnet to Contest with Wooding and Ferry starting ' Schedule Goodrich, f ...•.....•.• 1 iii. the otil.€1' forward positions. ---. _ ~~~nan, c · .. · ......... 2 Rochester Mermen Hug: lies to Pla.y aoaue Tonight Ri~~~~Y~ g.::::::::::::: g Wally Hughes, ;vho has been sub~ 7:30 City Neutrals vs. Chi ·Psi. Total ............... 5 stituting :for Walthers, will ptob- 8:30 Delta Phi vs. Sigma Chi. Lambda Chi Alpha(4l)G Undefeated Hornet Aggrega· tiou Hopes to Keep Rec- ord Unspoiled ably start In t:he goalie's position Tomorrow Adams, f · · · .......... 9 tomorrow aftern<>on. Phil Little 1:15 Neut!'als vs. Beta Theta Pi. Canale, f .............. 1 and Bob 'Wa.rner will start in the 2:15 Lambda Chi Alpha vs. Delta Them·er, c ............. 0 defense positions, while Bergman, Upsilon. Randall, c · · .......... 8 Austin Fox, an<l Captain Jenkins 3:15 Kappa Al.pha vs. Phi Upsilon. Agius, g .............. 1 will play il~ the forward positions. 4:15 Rappa Nu vs. Kappa Sigma. Szombrowski, g ........ 0 Harry Sun:mrerbayes, \Doc\ Or- 1\londay Total · · · · · · ..... : .... 19 ton, Johnny- :Etnans, and Dave 7:30 Phi Sigma Delta vs. Kappa Becker. will prol>ably also get in Alpha. the game. 8:30 'Theta Nu Epsilon vs. Lambda 0 0 0 1 0 1 F 1 0 0 2 0 0 3 0 BARBER SHOP 2 4 1 4 WHERE 11 p SERVICE IS A 19 2 PLEASURE 0 18 509 UNION ST. 2 0 NEAREST THE CAMPUS 41 Tomorrow at 3 o'clock the Union natators will seek their second victory of the seaso'Q. when they meet the str~ng Rochester swim· ruing tea.:rn in the Foote PooL After losihg to 'Colg·ate, Syracuse and Williams, and defeating R. P. I., the Dutchmen are pointing toward another victor;y, despite the fact that their Yellowjacket opponents are one of the strongest swimming The su:rnrnaries on the Union- Chi Alpha. Middlebury g~ooe: Results JI!IIIILiml:JtY (I) I:SIOX (I) dD Bak~:.Y .................... Little !,D Maruan ............... Warner Cbi Psi (17) G F P Gazette Press C Phmner .. _, ............ Jenl(ins 0 t f 0 0 0 itW Broo':k~ ................. Bergman · ron, \\ \\\ ·\\ [,W Dawes ..................... Fox Stewart, f ............. 4 0 8 ,T Nash.,_,._ ............... Hughes Sbong, c .............. 1 0 2 .Spares-Niddlelm~·y: .Swett, Pil'l<ins. Draper, ·g · ............ 0 0 0 Groby. UIJID·li: Sumrnerhaye,;, Orton, Marshall, g ............ 3 1 7 IDmaH8, Bedc.eJ'. Total , ........... , ... 8 1 17 Scoring-!•'! rst period: 1 Cnion, Berg-· De1ta. Phi (28) G F P teams in New York. In their practices the Rochester swimmers have lowered some of the pool records. Coach Roman L. Speegle conducts his charges in tri- weekly drills. Last year the Roch· ester team lost its only meet to Syracuse, and this year is looking forward. t() a perfect record. Bill Smith, dash man and veteran of last year's team, has been turn- ing in consistent wins so far. Cap- tain Griswold will find more than the usual cornpetltion .in the 50 and lOQ-yard dashes tomorrow when he ~~~t t. s~~~~~~ ~;~~~;l ; § ~n~g~~e~~~: B 1 lo~nl, ff .......... \ .. 1 0 2 PhiHney, 2'. Foutt.h perin<l: 1 Middle- .mne, · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 4 0 8 ~l,;ur;~;·';';.~;'\;~;to;n;.;;==;;~;;;;;;;;;;~R~a;n;d;a;ll;';c~·=·=·=·=\;';';';';\~l==~0==~2 .~~~~~~;;~~;;;;;;~;;~~;;;;;;~;;~~;;;;~;;~;;~ PINE GROVE DAIRY races Smith. Chu-ck Griffiths will 118 S. FERRY STREET pt:obfllbly l>e Carl Faelten's outstand- ing opponent in the distance swims Sc:henec:tady, N.Y. during the )neat, wt\ile the 1:>rea.st :-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;;;~~~~~~~~~5~~ and ·baclt stroke events wBI be entered. by Don Berry and Sam Stratton, respectively- of Rochester. Union, with its veteran diver, Bill Keens, will have a very good chance to tal~e first in the dives, for Roch- ester h-as not turned out any out- standing divers as yet. Emerson will also do the diving for Union. Fen(ers Clash With Williams Tomorrow · For the second time iii three weeks the Union lnoi:ercollegiate-in- tramural fencing squad will meet the Williams swordsmen. Tomor- row afternoon at 2:30 the Garnet fencers will attempt to du.plicate their 15 to 2 victory over tbe Purple team in the AJuroni Gymnasium. Cochrane, Smith, .Stocking, Cook, MeWhorter, and Sichel will prob- ably be presen•t tomorrow in the foil and sabre •bouts. There may aiso .be some bouts with the epee if the Williams men feel qualified to compete despite their little experi- ence. Bob Slobod, Frank Champ, Earl Dewey, and Captain Bert Morrison will probably engage in the foil bouts for Union. Fred Feldman and Jerry Cohen, two sophomores who have shown great ability in practice· and in the Hamilton meet, will probably duel in the epee bouts along with the versatile :Bert Mor· rison. Watcb for Spring Fasb .. the Collegiate • • lfll1S Ill Di.gest. The local cloth- will handle these • ters new style suits, shirts, ties, shoes, etc. We trust that you will patronize our adver- tisers. Stuart Rogers, who has lost only one bollt this· season, will again take part in the sabre event for Unio!1.. tomorl'ow together with :Mox•rleon. ·,~.;;;;;;;;;::;;;;;;:;;;;;:;;;;:;;;;;;:;=o;;o;;;;=o;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=o;;==---=-===;;;;;;!1 UNION COLLEGE BOOK STORE Room '5' Administration Building College Seal Jewelry Fountain Pens Pennants Leather Goods OUR NEW LINE CIGARETTES and SMOKIN.G TOBACCO Hours-8 :45 • 12:00, 1 :1'5 -.: 5 iOO JEWELRY-WATCHES Schenectady VVatch Hospital EXPERT WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING All Work Done on Premises at HECKMAN'S JEWELRY STORE 403 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. By Sweaters With A Pull Sleeveless sweaters, of the v. ~eck type, are becoming increas .• mgly popular with the well-dressed collegians. Com- ing in colors of . navy, wine, gray and brown, they ' 1 1 1 1 ~ \1 'lll ~ ~··.~ are exceedingly 1 t t\ 1 1 1 1 1 • ~ IJ ~ ~ 1 fashionable in the · t 1 1 1 \1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~; cable stitch. They ~ tl ~ ~ ,• ( 1 1, GJ h a v e a natural ~ \\ ll JL\! ~ ~ ~~ place in the ward· \llllllll' llff' robe of today, for 11 111 they can correctly replace the waist• coat for wear with a tweed suit. The fashions of 1934 are ex- tremely practical throughout, and the low-cost variations in dress provided by the stylists, such as the sleeveless sweater, make it possible for the college man to h a v e a completely fashionable wardrobe at the barest minimum of expense. These \change-oft's\ also make it possible for him to avoid the sameness of day-to-day attire that becomes so tedious and unpleasant. ~ \S.;otcby\ Socks The English may be dictating just what is the correct style in hats this . season, but the Scotch seem to be dom- inating the re- mainder of t h e wardrobe. W i t h the p I a i d s and roughs predomin- ating in suit cloths, it is only natural that socks with many varia- tions of .plaid de· signs should be ordered, The ar- gyle type plaids ~~ are the most fashionable a n d serviceable for campus wear. As a pleasant variation :from the plaid design, socks with a horizon• t111 bar type of pattern have been created for the smart college man, Either of the two new designs will fit in with the new ensemble, and carry out the \rough\ idea coni 4 pletely, They'll be especially smart and practical during the cold days approaching. Don't miss on thisl Can WeHelpP Questions concerning what Is and what is not correct dress will be answered by the Colle· glate Digest f a s h i o n staff. Write now to: Fashion Ed .. ltor, Collegiate Digest, P. 0. P~x 472, Madison, Wfs.·.:}

Four Appoint Special Lecturers in Civil Engineering Field General Electl'ic Official And Sanitary Engineer Chosen By Hoadley Well-Known in Fields Structural Engineering And Welding to Be Topics Of Talks by Vogel The appointment of two special lecturers in the field of civil engi- neering has been announced b) Professor Anthony de H. Hoadley, acting chairman of civ1l engineer- ing. Mr. Andrew Vogel of the Gen- eral Electric Company has been ap- pointed special lecturer m welding and structural des1gn, and Mr. Mot- ris M. Cohn, sanitary engmeer fol the City of Schenectady, has been appointed special lecturer in sani- tary engineering. A series of lectures on weldmg and stmctural engineering will bt given to the civil engineering stu- dents during the balance of the col- lege year by Mr. Vogel who ha:s been engaged in the design and ap- plication of welding to the fabrica- tion of buildings, bxidges and othet structures fot· several yeats. He has lectured in many cities and written a large number of technical a:rticles on the development and ap- plication of welding. Designed Soviet Factory Mr. Vogel has already addressed the civil engineering students on the subject of \Drafting in Civil and Structural Engineet mg.\ He is planning to address the senior civil engineering students on \Industrial Plant Design,\ \The Application ot Higher Mathematics to the Solution of Structural Problems,\ and \Tht Application of Welding to Btidg£ and Building Construction.\ Mr Vogel is eminently qualified tc. speak on industrial plant des1gn a' he was responsible for the design of the Sov1et Turbo-Genera tor Fac· tory at Kharkov, Ukrame, lJ. S. S. R. This is the largest t ur bme fac tory m the world, and the SoVIet Government felt 1t net:e~:oary t<. draw on the expeuence ami te· sources of the Gene1al Eiectta Company for the plannmg of tht factory. Colm is Union Grad Mr. Cohn recetved the degree oi B. S. in civil engmeeung at limon College in 1921, and later completec.. the work for his maste1 s t1eg1 ee at the same institution. Smce gradu ating from college, Mr. Cohn ha> served as sanitary and testmg engt neer of the City of Schenectady. Ht has been in charge of the sewag£ disposal work at Schenectady whett he has been successful m 1mprovin!-. methods of sewage treatment ano of technical control. The New York State Sewage Association grantee Mr. Cohn the Kenneth Allen awa1 d for excellence of plant operation L few years ago. Mr. Cohn was fur- ther honored by being elected presi dent of this association at its an· nual meeting which was recentl~ held in New York City. In addition to his successful work as an operating engineer, Mr. Cohn has been actively engaged in the preparation of plans for the future modernization and extension of thE present sewage disposal plant fm the City of Schenectady. These plans were prepared under the gen- eral direction of the City Enginel't -- --o---~ \Law Student Must Have Orderly Mind,\ Says Hinman \It is cowardly for a student to enter law school with the thought that he may not hke the law, but that he can always use his legal training to advantage in other work,\ declared Rankin G. Hinman, '35, in daily assembly yeste1 day morning. \Such an attitude ib merely putting off the decision of a life work, and is a ptetext for ob- tahling four more sheltered years of academic life.\ Hinman declared that without a certain goal in his Jaw school work, the student will lack that drive and purposefulness that is vital for suc- cessful gt·aduate school endeavor. The fact that the law profession is already overcrowded will not deter any student who ea1 nestly believt!s that he wants to do that work. In order to quahfy for the legal work students should be certain that they have the mental capacity and taste for the law. \If they at·e sure of this,\ said Hinman, \they should not be discouraged by the severe competition. \Any student planning to study law should examine hiiDBelf to lind if he has an orderly mind, If he en- joys research work, and If he finds it easy to convey his Ideas to other persons, especially In large groups.\ CLASSICAL CLUB MEETING A regular meeting of the Class- Ical Club will be held Tuesday eve- ning at the home of Professor Kel- logg. Dr. Philip E. Mosely will dis- cuss the position of the Classics in R1Jssla before and after the Revo- lution. All students who are inter- ested are cordially invited to at- tend. Dean's List- (Continued from Page 1) J. Owens, Jr., Ralph H. '!'hatcher, Joseph L. Theisen. BS in Chemist1•y Carl R. Faelten, Philip B. Moore. BS in Physics Lee L. Davenport, Howard S. Moncton. CLASS OF 1938 Bacht\lOI' of AI'ts Harold B. Ackerman, Jr., Delevan Annett, Ca1l B. Booth, 3. Bundgus, Jr., Benjamin Cohen, Lionel B. Coloby, E. Dejnozka, Jr., Robert C. Denzler, Edson V S. Draper, Hyman A. Enzer, Robert H. Ferguson, Don- ald P. Ford, Paul Goldberg, Arnold M. Gordon, Henry D. Harttnann, Charles H. House, Jr., Elmer T. Jobnson, Stanley Kollin, Willard L. Male, Domimck Mele, Marvin M. Millet·, Melvin I. Muroff, Donald G. Roy, Robert L. Roya-l, George T. .3cott, Henry l\II, Seider, Carl R. Trahman, Charles W!betley, blwooa G. Wisenburn. BS in Civil E:nginet>ring \V11lard 'vV. Dean, Bemard V. Jaco!ick. BS in Electi·ical Engi.nl'el'lng At thur E. Breyma1er, Matlin Depp, Richa1d Koval'ic, Edwin G. Ryan, James W. Scott. BS In Chemistry Winte1ton U. Day, Walter 0. Ger- ber, Jr., William Jacobe1·, At thm· C. Santora, Robert A VanNordstrand, Matthew W. Wilson, John :::;, Wold. BS in l'hysics John R. Doig, J1., Louis C. Maples. ---o---~ Dr. Bell Will Preach At Chapel Services Sunday Dr. Bernard I. Bell, canon of St. John's Cathedral, Providence, Rhode Island, will speak at the Sunday morning services in the Memorial Chapel at 11 :15. The pub- lic is invited to attend the service, which will be broadcast by station WGY. Dr. Bell holds the degree of bach- elor of arts from the Umverslty of Chicago, of bachelor of sacted the- ology from the Western Theological Seminary, of doctot· of divinity from both the Wester·n Theological Semmary and the L'niversity of the South. In 1933, the l.'niveitiitY of the State of New Yo!l.: conferred upon him the degree of doctor of peda- gogy. ~r\e.d in !\'Ian~ Churcl:es In 1910 D1. Bell wa\ D!'acon nnd Pnest of the Prote~tant-Epi:;copal Chu1 ch, and fo1 the next th1 ee years he setved a,; \'icar of the St. Chn,;topher Chu1ch, in Oak Pa1lt, Illinois He was Dean of St. Paul's Cathedral at FonJ du Lac, Wiscon- :;m from 1913 to 191~ and was '-ilso exammmg chapla1n to the b1:shop of that dwcese From October, 1917 to May, 1919, Dr. Bell \vas aide to the senior chaplain of the Great Lakes Naval T1a1ning Stat10n. He wa:; professor of religion at Columbia Umver:sity and until Octobe1 1, 1933, when he became honorary canon of St. John's Cathedral, he was war- den of St. Stephen's College. at Ann- andale, N. Y. He also became trus- tee of that institution in 1933. He is a college preacher also at Pnnce- ton, Yale, Wilhams, Wellesley, Vas- sar, Mount Holyoke, Harvard, Am- herst, Wells, Ce>rnell, and Columbia. ---o--- Mose]y's New B()ol~ Receives Favomble N()tice in Mag·azinl's The current issues of \The Jom- nal of Modern Ht:>tory\ (Chicago), and the • New Cenlllly\ (London) contam:> favural.l!e IeVlt'W:l uf \Rus- ,;ian Diplomacy and the Opening of the Eastern ~uestton In 1838 and 1839,\ the book pub!ished this win- ter by Dr Philip E Mo;;ely, inst1 uc- tor in h1:;tor y, at Union College. The London magazin<> g-ives it a pa!tlcula!ly dbce1ning evaluation which is concluded with the state- ment that D1. M<'sd~'s book \is a model of pain><tukm,; scholai,hi!J and dispassionate object! vity and mu1 ks a dist:nct contrtLut iort to th£> hiE:toty of Russian diplomacy\ F•,rnu•rly ED'S CHARLES' The flffrPml Ut•!on College Barber for the pagt 24 yPars A•k an)' upper classmen, thev knnw 11 operators. Scheneotady's greatest harhPr COR, STATE AND IIF!OA.DWAV Fro-joy Ice Cream has been a.warded the \Goo-d Housekeep- Ing\ seal of approval, carefully awarded for pwlty, cleiiDllness and quality of I.Jigrecllents. At Your Dealer's Store o:r PHONE 4-3121 T~E GONCORDIEN~IS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1935 Rare Old Engl-ish Sterling Collection To be Exhibited at President's Home The Brainard Lemon Collection , ing different from anything seen of old English silver which will be in this country in any quantity exhibited Wednesday by Mrs. Ed- outside of New York. At first a ga;r Birdsall ·at the Faculty Wom- small gallery was added to the old an's Club >tea at the home of Dr. establishment, but after a year or and MI's. Dixon Ryan Fox, is one two of successful experiment, there of the best collections in the coun- came the greater idea, not only of try, The exhibition will be accom- placing the silver in a truly artistic p~nied by a lectu.re on Old English setting, but of showing it through- Stlver by Mrs. Btrdsall, whose res- out the country and bringing to idence is in Glens Falls. It IS scbe- people in their own cities the ad- duled frllm 2 to 7 o'clock on Wed- vantage of seeing, with the possi- nesday, and is open to the public bility of purchasing, the wonderful for fifty cents. works of the old craftsmen. The permanent home of the col- lectton is in Louisville, Ky. Tbere in 1918 Mr. Lemon built a charming Tudor house where the silver could be displ<ayed m its natural setting on fine old furniture with a back- ground of tapestries and damask. Mr. Lemon inherited his love and knowledge of silver from his father and grandfather, whose jewelry and silver house was founded in Louisville In 1828. During many Eur.opean tours he came to admire the We>rkmanship and designs of the Old English pieces, and at first purchased in order to have certain found a private collection for him- self and his family. Later in life he conceived the idea of bringing some e>f these treasures to Louis- ville for sa:le, all his offer·ings be- Mrs. Birdsall, who represents this collection is herself a collector of silver, and in addition to the Brain- ard examples she will exhibit part of her own collection of Georgian silver and antique Sheffield plate. She will outline briefly a few of the requirements for silver col- lecting. -~-,o~-- COPIES OF TUGWELL SPEECH A limited number of copies of the speech made by Dr. Rexford Tugwell in the Memo1 ial Chapel on January 25 on \The Progressive • Tradition\ are in the hands of the ' News Bureau and students may ob· 1 tain copies by applying there. • supper club dancing at the hotel van curler will not be held this week but will be resumed saturday february twenty-third Players- (Continued from Page 1) gressional Library at Washington and collections of p1ays at Harvard, Brown, and the University of Penn- sylvania were subsequently search- ed, thoroughly, and: the ensuing sea- sons sa:w such rare gems as James Nelson Barker's \Superstition Willtam Dunlap's \The Father o'f an Only Child\ (which the Civic Players produced several year·s ago here), Woodworth's \The Forest Rose,\ and Noah's ''Marion, or• the Hero of Lake George.\ The Players will be presented in Schenectady by the Mountebanlts dramattc society of Union College at the Mountebanks theatre on the campus. Tickets a1 e on sale at the News Bureau. ---o--- COMPT'ROLLER'S NOTICE Two Additional Spence1· Lecture1·s A1·e Scheduled Two more Spence1· lectul.lers, one a Columbia professor of history who will speak on sports, and the other a New York ministe~· whose topic wHl mingle morals and the machine age, have been chosen to compete tl;le lecture program for the year, Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox an- nounced today. Dr. John A. Krout, associate profet~sor of history at Columbia University, will speak on the \Rise of Sport in America\ on March 27, giving the second talk for this semester. Dr. Ralph W. Sackman, minister of Christ Chuvch, New York will speak on \Mora:ls in a Machien Age\ on April 23, Both men will appear in daily assembly and visit various class- vooms. Dr. Sackman was born at Mt. Vernon, Ohio, r,eceived his A. B. de- --- gree from Ohio Wesleyan, and his Comptroller Anthony deH. Hoad- M. A. and Ph. D. frem Columbia. ley has issued an announcement. He is also a gra;duate of the Union that the r ece1pt from the tuition Theological Seminary. He has writ- payments must be presented to the ten \The Revival of the Conventual professor of each student's course' Life of the Church of England in so that the Comptrollet· can make the Nineteenth Century,\ \Suburbs a more conclusive check up on all of Christianity,\ and \Men of Mys- payments. teries.\ COME IN AND SEE US Headquarters for Men's Weal\ of the Better Grade Stetson Hats Penn-Craft Hats Manhattan Shirts Cortley Shirts Interwoven Hose Nicklas Clothes L. F. NICKLAS. INC. ISS JAY STREET I

3pencm· lteduled :uvers, o;n;e )f history s, and the ;te~· whose s and the chosen tl> )gram foi· ,n Fox an, A. Krout, history at l speak on nerica\ on lCond tailk Ralph w. 1f Christ spea:k on 3'' on April tr in daily lous class• rn at Mt. .sA. B. de- .n, and his Columbia. the Union e has writ- Conventual Dngland in ·• \Suburbs en of Mys- es ··=:-··. <··:::·. .. ;.-: . .:··.·.· · .. · .. ·.:.·::. .·:···:· :::-:-.:=:·· .·:·-··.·.·. .·-: :=:::-:::::·.::.--.:·:-:.::::::: ~)f:;:::;t::~~):;J;·:::t:=~:::~ .·.·- . :-.-.::· .; . . .. ::~::.·- -~ ::::;.;.·.·.: .. :-~.-;;.;.;._.;.;:·.·:: ·:.::·:·.·::i:::·:;;::-·:::;:~;~:1=:::1 .. ··.·· .... ·.·=·· -·:·-; :;-::·.·!· :::.:;:·:·:·::=:·: ~- -: :-:~ .::-.-: ::· .. :-.-:-:-;-·._ .. ·.·.·--.-: ·:::-::::::::·;;.;:·,·.;c.:•; .. ;: ::;::;.·:;:·.·:-;.·- ::::::::::::-:::.;.<:-: .. ;. :·:··· ·,-· :.- .. : . ·.·. ·-·· ·.-; ·:: ··.·:-·:-::::;:.···.·;:: ·-:.··.-.;:: ! Glee Club l To Represent New York State At Pittsburgh .. -----~--- Vol. LVIH., No. 35 • UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1935 • StS r· ~:~Lii: ~: -· Yale News' Editorial Campaig·n -------------·~·----J PRICE FIVE CENTS Fox Favors Yale Father Reilly Tells Of Abraham Lincoln's Life Two Upperclasses ·Columbia Players to Present •ctari' Union Glee Club News' Plan For Father John L. Reilly, Monseig- Add ~lve Men To Tlere!' Famed for 'Home Sweet Home' To Represent New N D ' L. t ' Y k . C F • C} · neur of the St. John's Church at aSCISm. asses. Union street, addressed the students at the regular assembly exercise ew · ean s IS · . ]'- h d h. . . or In ov:at·est The Mountebanks have completed H1s fo \s a sent 1m to Umon m ll'l President :Supports Editol'ial Campaign for Course In Radical Govemments Replies to Conservatives Says Object of Education Is To Develop Judgment, Not Impress Belief Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox was aJSked recently by the Brooklyn Eagle for his opinion concerning the recom- mendation of the Yale News to establish courses dealing with Fas- cism and Communism \so that stu- dents might be prepared to face the changing political situation through- out the world with clear u,nder- standing.\ This request was one of several sent out by rthe Brooklyn Eagle to presidents of prominent eastern universities, Dr. Fox re- plied; \Nervous Oouservatives\ \I am told that the proposal in Yale University of a course in 'Fas- cism and Communism' has fluttet·ed the apprehension of nervous con- servatives. These people doubtless deplore as well the university course in abnormal psychology and Oriental religions, fearing that stu- dents who take them will emerge to vote for sadism and suttee. Assured in their infallible knowledge of what is true and wise and what is false and foolish they desire that young Americans ex_amine on!~ the former; belief, not JUdgment, 1s to them the end of education and it would save much pain and trouble if we informed youth only of what youth was to believe and do; rather than state the problem it is better to give only the answer, that is to say their answer. They have no faith in the power of truth to make ts own way. To these people eaching and preaching are synony- mous and all preaching to young minds is supposed to be effective, though it might puzzle a Ger~an, an Italian or a Russian to see now a Yale student could come out a Fascist and a Communist at the same time. Idea Not New \Those who aFe shocked by this announcement have apparently been spared the knowledge <that American university students have been learning about Communism for nearly a hundred years and about Fascism since it was invent- ed. No graduate could be co_n~id­ ered qualified in history, pohtical economy or social philosophy with- out having studied them both, along with anarchism, mona-rchy, democ- (Continued on Page 4) Alumni Association Plans Glee Club Concet·t-Dance The annual Union College odlee Club concert and dance sponsored by the Schenectady Count;r Alumni Association for the benefit of the Schenectady ~cholarship Fund will talte place April 12, 1935 at the Mohawk Golf Club, it was an- nounced yesterday .by J. Leslie Schoolcraft '08, president of the Alumni Association. Assisting Chairman Stanley S. Joseph '21 on the committee for arrangements of the annual affair are: John S. Beale '30, Frederick L. Bronner '23, Milton M. Enzer '29, Alvin F. Nitchman '24, Horace S. Va:n Voast '24, E. Clifton Vrooman 17, and Frederick A. Wyatt '32. An alumnus from each fraternity at Union College has been chosen to distri·bute the tickets. They are: John W. Eddy '21, Alpha Delta. Phi; Louis M. DiCarlo '32, Alpha. Phi Delta; Nelson W. Nitchman '30, Beta Theta Pi; William H. C. Leh- man '32, Chi Psi; Anthony J. Pa- lermo '22, Delta Chi; Caid H. Peck 31, Delta Phi; Louis Oppenheim '75, Deita Upsilon; William C. Yates '98, Kappa Alpha; Samuel Feuer 25, Kappa Nu: Ro·bert 0. Bullard 30, Kappa Sigma; John N. Finli: '26, Lamlbda Chi Alpha; Frank S. Hig- gins '33, Phi Delta Theta: Hyman W. Sevits '18, Phi Sigma Delta; D. Richard Weeks '28, Phi Gamma Delta; Frederic A. Wyatt '32, Phi Sigma Kappa; Charles L. Hequem- bourg '12, Psi Upsilon: W. Lester Terry '30, Slgma Chi; J()hn S. Beale '30, Sigma Phi; S. Vermon Travis '11, Theta Delta Chi; Samuel M. Hesson '27 1 Theta Nu Upsilon. this morning on the life of Abra- ha:m Lincoln, whose birthday it is today. Father Reilly pointed out that Lincoln was one of the truest of all. Americans. Lincoln left his home town 74 years ago yesterday, and stated then that he owed everything he had earned to that place a·nd those people. \Without that -divine asslstance he could n<Jt have sue-· ceeded','' said Mons. Reilly. .At the time of Presldent Lincoln's re-election in 1864, he sent a letter of sympathy to a mother who had: lost flve sons on the field of battle. 8enio1·s Remain at Sixty-four; Juniors Jump Fmm Thirty- Four to Thirty-nine Total Increase 22 Whole College Increases From 194 to 216 Over First Report Period the sets for John Howard Payne's the hopes that the \frontier col- celebrated operetta, \Clari or the :ege\ might p10vide him with other \Maid of Milan,\ which the Colum- than social engagements, and he bia Laboratory Players of New was even quartered dming his York will present in two perform- entire stay with President Eliphalet ances here next Saturday, February Nott. Fr0m this circumstance the 16. college is rich in legends concern· Singers Will Go to Pitt.r;;but'gh Fot· lntet·-College Festival After l\letropolitan Tl'ip This will be the first time that mg l'l ott and Payne. the play, which was the first Amer- '1'he current revival of Payne's Thirty Men to Be Chosen ican dramatic piece produced• Clari by the Columbia Players is Each Group Will Sing 'l'ltree Numbers, Required, Optional And Colleg-e Selection \These rnne,\ stated Father Reilly, A total of 103 upperclassmen at- :~~~d gloriously on the field of bat- tained Dean's list averages for the In conclusion Mons. Reilly said second marking period of the cur- that the United States can point rent year, it was announced this abroad when it was given in Lon- the third in five years. Each pro- don in 1823, wiH be seen on the duction in New ): ork was greeted Unlon campus, but its theme song, with enthusiastic praise froin the 'Home Sweet Home\ has been New York theatre critics. Even known longer on the campus than the London Stage commented: ·the play in which it was used, Payne \ .. in spite of the conventional- while a student at Union first ized sentiment and exaggerated .penned the major part of the poem propriety, it acts better than most \Vhile on the campus, a manuscript of its rivals of the hour. Its story of which is in the college library. holds, and its pretty score Is The college glee club will repre- sent New York State in the Easter·n Division Intercollegiate Glee Club Concert-Festival in Pittsburgh, Pa., on March 12, it was announced this mornlng by Donald C: Hawkes, '35, manager of the club. The Union singers will compete with clubs that will have been chosen to reprf'- sent each of the following districts: morning by Dean Charles F. F. with pride to the bust of the im-: Garis. Sixty-four seniors and thirty- mortal, peerless Abi>aham Lincoln nine juniors have averages of in the Hall of Fame. eighty per cent or better in all The play has a .peculiar interest charming still,\ for the Mohawk Valley for it was Miss Molly Hopper, an instructor here that John Howard Payne in Seward Park High School, New loved to go on long trips into the ':l ork, and who has sung the leads country, to fish, and especially to in \The Duenna,\ \Love in a Vii- run over either to Albany or to !age,\ will play and sing the role Saratoga for social engagements. of Clari. She created the part in Morris Explodes Popular Beliefs Spencer Lecturer Says World Was Cool and Inhabitable A Billion Years Ago Dr. Frederick K. Morrls, .profes- sor of structural geology at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech- nology, exploded several long-a-c- ·cepted beliefs in his talk Friday evening in the third Spencer Foun- dation Lecture of the year on \A Billion Years in the Hudson Val- ley.\ All his points were illustrated with slides made from his own drawings and photographs. In the opening of his speech he proved by the evidence of geologists that the world was inhabitable a billion years ago. At that time New York State was covered by a sea. \The earth was not a hot and flaming place a billion years ago as we have been led to believe, but just as cool, just as stable, just as hospitable, and just as inhabitable as it is now.\ Egg Came First Life at that time was developing slowly, and the different forms of animal life were just evolving. The change from the reptile to the hird was technically proved by Dr. Mor- ris to be the answer to the old ques- tion as to which came first, the bird Ol' the egg. \The egg obviously came first\ he said, and he pr01red his argument by showing that in the slow development of the xepti!e from 51 per cent reptile and 1\J per- cent bird there came a time when the egg of this creature hatched into a bird that was 51 percent bird. The Hudson River was formed the third tirne the sea covered New York State, although the formation of the liver's course had been t'lk- ing place for ages before. The. pali- sades were formed when the hot juices inside the earth raised the surface rocks of the land horizon- tally instead of vertically. Dr. Morris disp1·oved another . (Continued on Page 4) courseS', The announcement of the list for the upperclasses reveals that the whole student body representation of the honor list increased from 194 in Novembel' to 216 at the present date. The seniors had 64 on the list, in November while the juniors had: 34. Mountebanks To Give 'Henry IV' The complete list for the classes. of 1935 and 1936 follows: Players Broadcast Falstaff 1935 Episodes From Famous Bacllelor of Arts: Paul H. Beik,, D 'I' · ht Milton A. Berger, Ernest N. Brown,: rama omg Thomas S. Brown, Norman 0. Chadbourne, Frank P. Champ, The famous scenes from William George T. Clark, John N. Daly, Ru- Shake::;peare's \Henry IV, Part I\ dolph F. Deutl, James Dicltson, An- in which blustering, bibulous Fal- thony DiLorenzo, Hugh R. Elwyn,, staff tell::; how many highway rob- James E. Finke, Austin McC. Fox, bers he routed single-handed will be 0. Friedman, Charles R. Frost, Jr., broadcast at 11 o'clock tonight over John F. Gain, J-r., Malcolm L. Griff- WG y by the Mountebanks. The ing, Clemens F. Hathaway, Rankine presentation will be the second of a G. Hinman, Walter H. Holdridge,, ;;eries of radio plays under the Sey~our A. Horwi~z, Horner 'P· direction of Edward! Linus Carroll, ~enmngs, Jack H. Lmdabury, \Vil- director, depicting the development ham S. Mc<:;:ord, ~ymond S. Me- of English drama from the medieval Dow~II, Loms J. Milone, Albert I. period to the present day. Morrison,_ ~ndre'Y Poggenpohl, In the first broadcast the Mounte- Joseph R1gah, V1rgil J. Sager, Rob~ ·banks offered the \Brome Abraham ert J · Schultz, R:al~h D. Sernerad, and Isaac\ as a typical example of Edward B. S. Shires, Jr., M~us W .. medieval drama. Tonight's comedy, Stearns, Jr., Nathan Stillman, lasting a half hour instead of the Geo.rge W .. Stroebel Jr., Peter S, customary quarter of an hour, will S~Jkowskl, Charles C. Thomas, be introduced by Director Carroll WI!lia~I?- A. Waldron II, Thornton who will speak on the development W. Whipple, Joseph A. Woolman. of the comic interlude into the BS in Civil Engineering: Sidney longer drama. A. Cole, John Groet, Kenneth G. Dryden Next Month Larson, Eldon F. Matteson, Stanley E. Mower, Stanley Rockefeller, Vic- tor· A. Stevens. 'B~ in Elt>ctrical Engineering: Benjamin A. Brown, Vincent A. Doyle, Milo W. Eames, Eugene 0. Emerson, Kenneth N. Mathes, By- ron E. Phelps, Chester M. Rhoades, Jr., David E. Wallis, John E. White, Jr. BS in Chemistry: Daniel R. Con· Ion Jr., Robert L. Slobod, Joseph Soltysiak. BS in Physics: John R. Clark, Leonard Eisenbud, Harry R. Sum- merhayPs, Jr. 1936 Bach6lor of Arts: Bu1ton B. De- lack, John L. Doran, John B. (Continued on Page 4l The Eliza;bethan play concernlng the famous Falstaff episode 1 elat- ing to the robbery on the highway near Rochester is an example of the Shakespearean period. Next month a restoration tragedy by John Dryden will be presented. Fol- lowing in order for the remainder of the season wil be a sentimental comedy of the eigtheenth centur'Y. a nineteenth century melodrama, .111d a twentieth centu1y drama. Union Ski Enthusiasts Use Trick To Hold Vassar to Joint Meeting The actors for tonight's produc- tlon are: Prince Hal, John B. Dowl- ing; Poins, John C. Fitzgerald!; Gadshill, Burns F. Barford; Bar- dolfph, William W. Mulvey; Peto, Robert L. Royal; 1st traveller, Charles H. Reeves; 2nd traveller, Ferdinand Helm, jr.; and Falstaff, Edward L. Carroll. The Mountebanks have been en- couraged in the continuance of their radio work since they gave tbeil' first production on January 8 by thP considerable notice re- ceived from the public. Several letters have been received com- menting on the work being done by the actors. The Hauptmann intrigues were shelved a.q commonplaces when Un- ion entangled Vassar in a guileful net which experts in every state have labelled the Perfect C1 ime. The motive can easily be traced to a. telegram dispatched from Pough- keepsie at 9;45 Saturday morning, February 9th, which with startling suddenness announced the postpon- ment of a joint outing in Woodland Valley scheduled for five weeks to take place that afternoon. This un- welcome message which was deliver- ed as the Union c!ub was packing its last blanket turned Schenectady into an uproar a.nd roused Bob North to commit the crime that automatically raised hlm to public enemy number seven. After a moment of vicious schem- ing North collared his faithful roommate, Roger Sherman and forced him at the muzzle of a shot- gun to call Srre Breul of Vassa.r. and directed him to announce m honeyed words the late departure to Woodland Valley of an expectant Outing Club. • \Now sneered North as he cranked Union's transportation un· it, known n.s .Josephine, \By the prophet, they've got to come.\ and they did. Vassar is fortunate to be able to entertain her guests In her attract- ive Woodland Valley camp. Within easy reach are some of the largest Catsldll peaks with several fast slti runs. It was on onP. of the latter that Bob North and Bob Symonds were mistaken for Dartmouth skil- ers by a pal't:Y of well-meaning kib- ---0--- Reapportionment Motion Referred to Committee itzers who seemed to have forgotten In a brief Student Body meeting that the winter carnival was proba- yesterd~cy morning a proposal, pre- bly holding the interest of every sented by James A. Carroll '37 for half decent Hanover skiler. the reapportionment of membership Saturday night was quite a sue- in the Student Council, was quietly cess--from the intellectual point of and quickly brushed aside. The view, of course-when Union: and prt)pose.d .bill was to reduce the Vassar compared notes on classes, 10:4:3:2 ration which exists now campus life, and, as always, the and which gives advantage to the faculty. The Vassar contingent had senior class so that no one class a geologist, a chemist who claimed will be represented ·by more than to have mixed her cake in test 49 per cent of the membership of tubes, and a radio operator. The the Council. ge<J!ogist made the biggest hit be- SuggeS'ting that Carroll reword cause her father owned a gold mine. his amendment to read as a resolu- Vassar thought Union was one tlon, Ralph Semerad '35, president of those places· where the students of the student body, proposed that work at manual labor three weeks, the matter ought to be submitted to for every three weeks they study. the already existing committee on That impression wa:s no longer with investigation of alterinl' the Con- them when the weekend was over. stitution of the Student Council. Both parties agreed that the out- The motion thus slated, although ing was a success and altogether a apparently carried by an over· good ldea, despite the criminal ten- whelming majority, was declared dencies of the Union boys. rescinded by the president. the first revival. Harold Clausen, an instructor in the Horace Mann School for Boys, New Lork and director of dramatics there, will play the role of Rolamo. (Continued on Page 4) ----0--- Dr. Bell Leads Chapel Services Canon of St. John's Cathedral Advises Men fu Seek Inner Values \World revolutions are caused by hunger, a hunger that is not ban- ished by bacon and bean:;, lJut a hunger for a state of cult•n·e that will respect man's spiritual ne~dq,\ asserted Dr. Bernard I. Bell, canon of St. John's Cathedral in Pwvl- dence, Rhode Island, who l'polte Sunday at the chapel service'3. Dr. Bell pleaded that men seek for their lnner values as men and to respect their own abilities. \To an animal a thing is a thing,\ Dr. Bell said, \but to a man evexy- thing he comes across arou~es his imagination and thought. Tile in- signiflcance of man in con.parison with the vast universe is t'f 111 tie importance when man aggre~sively defies his universe with a 2 x: 100 inch telescope. The univex se i~ big, but man moves in it, and he is therefoz·e to be honored by our- selves and to be re::;pected by all other animal~>.\ Rousseau Unsound Dr. Bell :>aid that man has too long lived a,; a beast and has let hih g1·eatest possibilities ru; a human New England, Ohio, Pennsylvania, District of Columbia, and MetJ·o- polltan New York, including pa1·ts of New Jersey. The trip to Pittsburgh will bP made by bus and will be included with the regular New York City trip which is being sponsored by the New York alumnl and i:; sched- uled for March 8, at the Ritz-Carl- ton Hotel. Thirty SingPrs Permittfd Thirty men are permitted to sing according to the rules of tbe con- te:>t. In addition, several altHnates will be taken. Dr. Elmer A. Tid- marsh, director of the club is trying the voices of all fifty-::;even mem- bers of the club and the thirty men will be chosen as a result of the,;e tryouts. Thornton W. Whipple, '35, student leade1· of the club, w.ill do the du·ecting at the concez t-fe::;tival which will be held at ·the Schenley High School Auditorium. The con- test rules specify that all dil ecti ng must be done by students. ThP competing clubs must ~ing one song specified by the judgE's of the contset (judges will be an- nounced later); one song from its own repe:toire; and one college song. Whipple has announced that the Union glee club will sing \The College on the Hill,\ by Ralph Knight, '1'1. Dr. Tidmarsh has already begun to drill the glee club on the songs which must be learned for the con- test. They are \Ave Mazia,\ by Tomas Luis da Vittoria, and ar· 1 anged by Frank Damrosch, bn>t hPr uf \Valter Damrosch, famous con- ductor; \Echo Song,\ by Oziando di La:>so, and a11·anged by A. 1'. Davi- (Continued on Page 4) ---o-- to Address Radio Meeting T on i g h t being go unheeded. The theorie::; of Rousseau which stated that m~>n Pecli should follow his natural impuls•Js Club and let his life run as it will, wen~ declared to be unsound by the preacher. He ::;aid, \It is not the A meeting of the Radio Club will scienti::;t::; who have deceived us, it be held Tuesday evening, Febt uat·y is the philosophers. The quarrel is 12. Mr. Caid H. Peck of the Gen- between the good and the bad phil- ez:al Electric Research Laboratory osophers. Will be. the speaker. His topic will \We are crying with a new insist· be: \Thyratron Tubes and Circuit;;\. ence, as men have always done, Since graduating .from Union in that we, as men, should find mean- 1931, Mr. Peck has been a:;sisting in ings and values as vvell as facts in the development of rectifier systems life. No m;tn can see the Lol'd un- suitable for use in Direct Current less h\'! has seen himself. To see power transmis:;ion, and will givE' ourselves brings us to the gate that :loille interesting infoxmalion on is opened on the avenue leading this subject. :;ga!~ to self-respect, happiness, and The meeting will be open to the JOY. entire student body and faculty. Trustee Attained Highest Honors In Field of Chemistry at College William Howard Wright, a mem· ber of the Board of Tru::;Lecs of the college, has been. a prominent chem- ist since he graduated from here in 1895 with honors in what has been called the \toughest course in school\-that leading to a B. S. de- gree. His honors were so high that they brought him, directly, member- ship in Sigma Xi and, indirectly, success In commercial chemistry. tie was born in Detroit, Michigan, the son of Thomas W. Wright in 1875, and received his preparatory school educa;tion at the Union Class- ical Institute. While at Union he was a member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity. After graduating at the age of twenty he became assistant chemist at the General Electric Works, where he remained for eleven years. During that time he married Beulah deForrest. In 1906 he secured the plant of the Con- sumer,;\ Pnint and Varni'h Co. in Carman, N. Y., and set up bu,;inp,;,; for himself. Two years later he left Carman and built hi,; plant in Sche- nectady, the Schenectady Varni>'h Co. Inc., of which he is still the head. Since his locallon here he ha\ been an eminent citizen of the rity. In 1925 he was elected president of the Schenectady Chamber of Com- merce, a,nd t.wo years ago he was chosen as chairman of the Citizens' Budget Committee. Last year he became a director of the Schenec- tady Trust Co., and the year previ- ous he was elected president of lhl' Schenectady County Branch of the New York State Economic Council. In 1932 Mr. Wright was granted a patent on a paint comp-osition and coating that he perfected. The \ame year he acted as class agent for thl' Alumni Gift Fund.

i, i i I I i I '\ Two THE OONCORDIENSLS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1935 ~irnsis Club Concert-Festival is significant of the ·~~====================~ fine wo1·k that has been done in the fi~1d of F. I By TONY SHARI'E music at Union in recent yeat·s. Music is a :rr a g Q .· .. · truly one of the arts; when students have ·J!.;;================;;;;;;;;======dl ,MUSlC \11 Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 MEMBER fAssodatecl @'olh!)iatt ilt~si -51934 Cll'otk;i~~Mji!)t(!f 1935 .... MADISON WISCONSIN Sulll .nuU l·~xelusi\~e Natiot1al Adverth-liug nPpre- sentaliv~, :\aliumLl A.Uverti:-ing Service, Ine.. 11 'Ve;;t 4.2nd St., N. Y. C., 400 No. Michigan AvP., Chica!l'n. lllluuiH. The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 EntEred at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhet•e in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief l ~hi Psi Lotlge-4-GS27 Joseph A.. Woolman ..... _ .. _ .Managing Editor I\ a ppa ;-.;u lluusL~4-7:l31 William H. Fitzgerald ...... Business Manager l)elta l ~llSiion Hou~t.\'-4-'i'~~:.! Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor 1\;qopa SLI Ilousc~·!-7331 Thornton W. Whipple ..... Circulation Manager Chi l'si Lodge-4·6~·~7 Junior Board Vedder M. Gilbert. ............. Feature Editor P.:;i Up:;ilull lluuse-4-~7tU ASSOCIATE EDITORS John D. Anderson Albert H. Stevenson Robert C. North VanVechten Trumbull M. Bedell S. R. Cohen R. Doolittle F. Fel dtnan Issue Edito1· Wallace T. Foote Sophomore Board Assistant Editors W. Ferguson F. Gage C. Garrison G. Hasltell W. Horstmann R. Passenger R. Snyder N. Stewart Wallace T. Foote Assistant Issue Editors F. Gage l\I. Bedell F. Feldman Tuesday, February 12, 1935 DECREASING THE S'l'UDENT TAX The tax committee has negotiated with the administration on the t;uhject of l'elin- qubhing the respon:sil.Jility of the finuncing of the ~tthletic department. This latt.€1' de- partment is as much a part of the regular college 111echanism as any department of classroom study. In order to guarantee the highest efficiency possible in the supel'Vision of the athletic department, it would be wise if a move were made such as the one referred to above. The best possil.Jle way to adjust the situ- ation \vould be to increase the tuition l.Jy an amount corresponding to the present athletic tax and turn the vvhole pt·oblem of financing- athletic progmms over to the college author- ities. Likewise, the student tax could l.Je de- creased hy a corresponding· sum, thus mak- ing the total amount paid to the comptl·oller the s~me as it is at present. As t1le situation now stands, the athletic department is under the direction of a man who is considered to be a membet· of the fac- ulty. Yet, his budget must be approved by the student tax conunittee each year. We cannot conceive of a more efficient manner of controlling the finances of any depal'tment of the college than the machinery that is in ope1·ati()n in the Adminisb·ation building. It is to be argued that should such a move become a reality, the students would lose their last semblance of control over their athletic program. Nevertheless, we feel that the administration is broad-minded enough to liste11 to the desires of the undergraduates to give them due consideration. The loss of actual control will be amply compensated by the increased efficiency gained by the ad- j ustrnent. lt is significant to note that the Tax Com- mittee itself feels that a change mi~;ht be worthwhile. This is not an admission of de- feat; rather a tribute to the foresight of a committee which has justified itself during- its first year of existence. SCORE FOR THE GLEE CLUB The announcement that the glee club has been chosen to represent New York State at the Eastern Division Intercollegiate Glee the opJ.>ortunity to study under one of the 1•~==========::!.1 The first thing we should <lil•e to Verdi singing in the wilderness'! masters ·Of an art, they should feel that th€ir print today is a little reminder to Pon.gileont gluely kissed his flute First ·of an we want to say that 11 - ff • tl.. h . one of our colleagues that. the <We .Jike \gluelyJ and rain, we're with Dr. Tidmarsh till the CO ege IS 0 enng Hein more t an most m.- words Phi Beta Kappa .a 11 e not en- rain of damsons last ditch concern~ng what he said stitutions ca11 be expected to offer. g.raved on any part of the key of And all the days of noah were 950 Friday A. M. in Chapeh The Sun\ that society. Look again, brothet·. years and he died. · day afternoon recitals aren't teo Whether Ol' not the g-lee club wins its ·CO!l- * * * . highbrow for the .college student test at Pittsburgh, there is cause for pl'ide Miss Cornell's Juliet E. With not,mal intelligence and fairlY · Amid the oh's and ah's of enrap- · rasmus, how could you! . :- ave:ra,ge listeni-ng capacities, Sun- in the fact that Union was invited to repi'e- tured schoolmarms, a discordant And 3:- 11 those people starvmg! day's program was a fine example Eyes m a bowl of cheese before .tea~ of what an organ recital should I:Je sent a state that is rich in 11Ul110el' Of col- note by Professor G. D. C. Odell of Have you schnapps, M. atilda J.en- \'e suspect however that there are. Columbia (he's -the one who a-sserts 1 •• leges and in the quality of glee clubs. The that no one could hit high c since 9'ns! and then wtth me htgh- still those poor misguided souls whG f ll bl 'll b Patti died, ·and that no play worthy htghrgh on ·the fallen wave-; chink that because music is an en:·.o- Cl'ean1 () co ege ensem · es Wl .e rep1:e-· of the name has been written since crest to Lesbos. ' cional art ·that it is something to be sen ted at Pittsburgh. the war): avoided, like a goed cry .in the mov- When you've been going to the ·A meuse • ies, They forget however thd.t it 1:; theatre for fifty years, you can't be Of a mouse · also an mtellectual a,rt and can be FASCISM AND COMMUNISM ta:ken in by that sort of thing, Have. To a mouse as complicated as any slide vule. all the critics had a mental lapse? A mouse The Becker Sonata that Dr. 'rjd- The recent splurge in the editorial columns of the Yale News about the institution of courses in Fascism and Communism in the curriculum has accomplished one· thing. It has received a certain amount of publicity in newspapers in the East. As far as the practical .side of the question is concerned, we feel that the statement made by Dr. Dixon Ryan Fmc, (reprinted on page one of this issue) is adeqHate answel' to the pro- ponents ·of the idea. Cornell better than Cowl? Plea.se! 0 mouse! marsh played Sunday was perfectly Please! That high-screaming voice magnitwent. We couldn't help com- -enough to give one the creeps to Castlereagh laughed panng it wHh the Jongen t>onara think of it-and the Balcony Scene which ·he played a coup1e ot Sun- with that little fiirt lticl~ing her days ago. Bot.l:l are modern in treat- heels and gulping down the lines. Leopard! rnent, :yet different in subject mat- Shades of Shakespeare! J:s there . Gone to a party ter. B<Jth are filled with rhythmic nobody left who realizes that t!wse Up to his neck in red-hot toddy vitality yet beth have entirely oppo- !ines are to be sung and not howl- stte movements. 'l'he PraelucHU!ll ed? Credit for the attempt? I Prudens quaestio-dimidium scien-i l:<lestivum of the Becker Sonata and should say not: nobody as!1ed her to tiae est. the Scllerzo are splendid examples play it, did they? Ludus de Sancta Katherii1a, quothi o! Becker's skill as a composer. Those of us who remember Mary he .Perhaps some thought the l:latie Anderson, that rare and· tadiant and .Stzavinsky nurnoers well over maiden-and the rich contralto What, you egg! Young fry of their heads but we hasten to assut.e voice singing the poetry of Sha:kes- treachery! them that it is ·merely their unfam- peare into our very souls-some <He stabs him) (He dies) tliarity that makes them peevzsh. Judging solely from the curricula of Union College, it would be futile to institute such courses. !11 ord,er to make any comprehen- sive study of democracy, Fascism and Com- munism rnllst be considered as prerequisites in order for the student to gain a fulleT understanding of the problems of democracy. thing for an octogenarian to dream And over his grave a song: The \King's Hunt\ and the of-a vision of delight indeed-life Rich man poor man beggar man ''Marche Russe\ must have .pleased yields us so few! thief the boys who go to the recital· mere- * * • How many ships are come to ly to sleep and help wipe off some This was wl'itten by someone ~rief of th · h 1 t p most of you know, and because we ~ · eu c ape cu s. ersonally -we How do I know liked the \Gavotte\ by Rameau 'and asked him to write us a c<Jh.I.mn, I What do I care Gl 1 • \A' f suppose now that it is done we'll uc t s zr rom Orpheus\ better have to print it, even if it seems a For unless these shears will cut' but then we can't all llke .spinach, ' little obscure. In the best P. A. my hair Nex:t weel1, dear listeners, ])r. Smithian tradition: I'll do, and I'll do, and I'll do. 'ridmarsh and Mr. Derrick of the Dr. Fox states that American univ,ersity students have been studying about Con'1mun- ism for nearly a hundred years and about Fascism since it was invented. Certainly we can think of no more convincing a fact to point out the fallacy in reasoning of the new editorial board of the Yale News. Whit·l and cranfordian julip Herts with pastures all agey Smouldering under moon-starred skirts. Uranus at half-mast, jovia.l, ct<o.ck- ed- Cars over corpses-.skrruneh-oh God! Chambers, Park place, fulton, Wall and then the swift-oozing plunwe~ Middlesex Not~s Plaza's program planner has a unique sense of humor. For in- 0 tempora! 0 mores! 0 Death! 0 hell! * * * If you really read all of this col- umn, may vre in all sincerity rend you o-ur heartiest congratulations. You'se a better man than I is, Gun- gha Din. -L. Week's Best Editorial DEFEA'l'? Schenectady Con..servatory <Jf Music will give ~ joint recital of organ- plano mustc. We would recommend it highly as we heard them practis- ing .but if you're the kind who likes a three ring circus you:d better uot go. Nothing very e:xciting on the ether this week. Don't forget Lily Pons at 9:00 Wed. night over WABC and John Chartes Thomas same night at 9:30 over WJZ. We'.re going <Jut to celebrate now as we've J~St he~rd that the Poetry Club has g1ven birth to a villanelle !'! We just lmew they would come through with something. Democracy is apparently the most popular type of govemment in the world today. Nevertheless, anarchism, communism, fas- cism a11d monarchism have contributed to what is ll<JW known as democ1·acy. How could we learn about democracy if we did not study about these other types of govemment? Democracy is built upon tradition formed by itst'lf and uther forms of govemment. stance, during the past weelt he co- The United States Senate's rejec- featured \Flirtation Walk\ and . tion last Tuesday of the resolution I Secret Serv·Ice l \Great Expectations.\ providing for American adherence to the Wo!\ld Court is seen as put- Bureau * * * ting to an end, indefinitely, an issue --------------- which has been frequently revived The Normal Racquette, student in this body of Congress for twelve organ of the Potsdam Normal, re- years. The vote was taken after one cenlly conducted a poll of the fresh- of the most raucous debates ever man girls as· to what they lilted and held in the Senate, the tone of HAUPTMANN TRIAL didn't like in their boy friends, and which reached an extreme in Sen- the results, as is usually the case, ato·r Long's \To hell with Europe As the Hauptmann trial draws to a close, were interesting. The vote showed and the rest of these nations.\ We some hope :for those of us not too cannot feel that cool-headed judg- the oft voiced European criticism of Amer- well blessed with beauty, for a!- ment had a place in the decision so · ll - d d . 1 • • . though the majority confessed that reached, O!\ that the obJ'ection of Ican sma -nun e sensatwna 1sm IS aQ'an1 th d'd f h d f - ey 1 pre er a an some ace, \entanglement in European and shocking·ly borne out. No matter how much two of the girls voted for ''receding Oriental difficulties\ watTanted chins.\ Said the article ''Some voted such action. we may disli}{e to admit it, the letharg-ic for the big, silent man, but tn.ost of In rejecting adherence to the attitude of most of our fellow countn·me11 them want him to be a good talker League, the Senate has, by infer- and a good listener-one who is ence, shown an adverse attitude can, apparently, only be aroused by the SOl'- able to tall< to a girl's parents while with rega!\d to the United States did, 111l1Ch-publicized unmoral acts of othel' she is powdering her nose.' ·' joining the League of Nations, thus The Yale prom, one of tltt3 gala excluding from important interna- people. So insulting is this indictment that events, is to be held Thursday. Vas- tiona! arbitration a powel' whose in- every intellig-ent American should recoil with sar plans to hold its: pro~n Friday. fluence could do much to foster bet- Quite perturbed by this situation, ter feeling between nations. The indignation that anything SO bordering· Oll a the ladies wired Yale-\Understand fact that there are flaws in the h ystel'ical debacle could exist within the nor- your prom t() be held Feb. H. Vas- organization and administration in sar prom to be the 15th. Since many the Court and the League, due to mal procedure of our judicial system. Yales plan to attend ours. irnpera- the interference of various self- A t · th · · tive to success of ours you change seeking factions, should give an re we s a!l.·mg· a ree-rm!l.' Cll'CUS o1· are dded · t t th ~ ~ date. Please advise immedi.ately.\ a lmpe us o e movement for we trying a man for his life? Are our news- Although we have heard of no offi- American adherence, since it could I cia! action, some of the Yalernen ?e counte!\acted by the steadying [}apers so acking in worthwhile material sent an unofficial reply-\Since Eve mfluence, and submerged by the that they must use this trial to resort t(} the it has been the immemorial right opinions, of another world power. of a. woman to change her mind. Internationalism has become the lowest practices of journalism iri order to sell Please advise.\ political watchword of the twen· • ? It · d h tieth century, inasmuch as the more COpieS. lS no WOn er t at the OUt- The Civic Players romped through whole WOI\ld is closely bound to- side wol'ld i:-; disgusted when souvenir lad- \Robin Hood\ this weekend with gether by ties of commerce and unusual aplomb. Nothing bothering modern communication methods. del'S a1·e sold to the scandal-mongering gal- to become serious, they put on a Tl1e United States can no longer, lery at the little court house in New Jerse''· fine production, to the glee of quite especially since their entrance into J a. few children, as Miss Clinton of the World War, feel the necessity Can any thinking· person sanction the con- the Gazette informs us. The best or the advisability of heeding the duction of sil!.·htseein.Q' tours throu!rh the performance was turned in by Mr. warnings of Presidents Washington ~ \ - Douglas McMullen as Friar Tuck, and Monroe against foreign \en- scene of the trial by the Flemington Rotary who with a degree of corpulence tanglements.\ There will be little Cl b ~ hitherto unknown on Schen.ectady good-will and peace among nations U . boards managed to- move a bout with until this country is willing to co- HaV€ we degenerated to a state where we considerable agility. The most ex- operate with its neighbors and con- citing scene for all concerned hap- sider their points of view, rather are so devoid of uplifting intellectual adivity . pened Saturday night, when Friar than mainta·ining an ostrich-like that we must r.esort to this murder trial as Tuck was to bang a dishpan full of isolation. corn meal and covered with brown We are fortunate in having a our chief source of food for thoug-ht? Pic- paper, known as a venis-on pasty, man Qf insight as President, whose tuees of Hauptmann and an electric chair on the head of a guard. He did so, perspective on international affairs and with great gusto, whjJe Robin has led him to maintain a proper covered by a question mark imply an uncon- Hood, whom he was protecting balance between national and inter- . I grabbed hold of the unfortunate national policy. Mz·. Roosevelt is SC!OUS savagery. n England this trial would victim. In the fracas that ensued, not without precedent in feeling have been over inside of a week, and the most of the movable fur!litue was that along with the growth and con- I overturned, and Friar Tuclt caught solidation of the United States our well- \nown society matrons, tabloid new spa- his knee-long nosary in a chan- influence abroad could be exerted pers, and sensational moving pictures would delier. The gual'ds outside were all to advantage for general and na- reacly to rush in, but Friar Tuck tional welfare. That such a bene- not have played a featured role; h(}wever, was not ready to rush out. After an ficial and thoroughly up-to-date here in the United States we are not witness\ agonizing moment, he gO>t himself attitude should not have been en- untangled and went. But the chan- dorsed by the Senate is an indica- ing- a trial but a drama. Hau-ptmann alone is delier had been a strain on.U1e ros- tion of the narrow-minded quality not on trial,· rather it is all America. Thus ary, and when in the last act, the of the nationalism and sectionalism Fl'ia.r served the stew, it was sea- which exists in that body. far the preponderance of evidence has been soned liberally with wood.en beads. -The Trinity Tripod. They also had some trouble with against her. Must we admit that Americans arrows. Robin was su~posed to are mental s·cavengers pouncing· on the un- send all of his messages by shooting tP,em around on arrows. There was fortunate deeds of human beings for their a ~.>layer posted underneath the interest in life? window to throw them In, but he couldn't see, and half the titn.e they landed in the audience. At one per- formance there were three arrows shot before .the actors on stage could get at one. S. R, C. Judging ~rom Monday morning, students wtll soon be required to show their instructors· a birth cer- tifi.catc, automobile -license and Pa's marriage license to get into class. * ~f past. pe.rformance means any- thmg, _ . nothmg that appears In Puncblt() could surprise us. * * * Czar Semerad is again at w01k ''Those in favor please say · aye\: pandemonium ' \T~ose opposed answer nay\: szx: feeble squeaks. \The motion is lost.\ Taking a leaf from the Hon Huey P. Long's ··share the Wealth'; crusade, we have a suggestion of our own, more applicatle to Union. We advocate a \Share The Marks ... or \S?ak T.he Brighties\ campaign. Additional mformation available on demand. If the Smith nymphs cavort up to expectation, a move is on to brin a the. Vassar Daisy Chain up thi~ Sprmg. Advance subscriptions are welcome at this office. * * The profitable aspect of the Beta con~lagration seems to have moved th_e Theta Dells to experiment lil!e- wrse. * * Philip Morris Awards For Achievement- Ted Podbielski-For his ex:cel- lent record on the basket- ball court, Ken Thompkins-For a fine job as goalie. Harry Baker-Because Hatha- way says the Chi Psi's tnust be recognized. Es, Es .& Bee. IN\ THE MAIL Editor, The Concordiensis: Washington, D. C; I have just read your last issue of The Concordiensis and am writing to congratulate you. As I read these issues from time to time I am itn- pressed by the tone and quality of the articles. The space you give to interests literary, artiatic and musi- cal and your reasona.ble attitude toward questions affecting the stu- dent life seem to me to reflect a very wholes~>me tY']le• of undergrad- uate sentiment an<l thought. Alto- gether The Concordiensis is a dis- tinct credit to the college, 'Very faithfully, Charles Alexander Richmond. ] I I D su th UJ U1 sc se st: bE th tu th e' u w f.ol w bl R OJ 2' fi d B a' n s ir tl d a s•

say that till tbe l he said Phe Sun~ ren't teo student nd fairly' es. Sun- example hould tJe. there are IOU!~ Who ; an elr .. <J- ing to be the mov- that it !o d can be e rule. Dr. Tid- perfectly 1etp. com- n. t:ionara. ' ot Sun- 1 in treat- ject mat- rhythmic ·ely oppo- aelua•IUJU 1nata and examples !Om poser. .he Batie well over to a:>suJ.e lr unfam- >eevrsh. and the e .pleased ital mere- off some mally, -we neau and s\ bettee 1pinach. ' aers, Dr. !k of the of Music l}f organ- commend n practis- who likes >etter uot on the 1rget Lily ght over 1 Thomas JZ. We'.re 'as we've Club has ! We just through _l morning, quired to birth cer·- ! and Pa's nto class. eans any- pears in Is. at work. e say, ~r nay\: the Hon. e Wealth\ restion ()f to Union, 1e Marks.\ ~ampaign. ailable on vort up to 1 to bring 1 up this >tions are ' the Beta LVe moved ment lille- 'or his excel- re basket- a fine job se Hatha- Psi's must 1 .& Bee. ~IL is: a, D. C; st issue of m writing read these I am itn- quality of ou give to and musi- e attitude g the stu- reflect a mdergrad- ght. Alta- I is a dis- Richmond. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1935 Three Dutchman Quintet Staves Off Defeat In Second- Half Rally ~- --- ----------------------------------=-- Rotunda Leads union Five Relay Decides Meet Union Men s~ore In In Victory Over Rochester Against Swimmers Albany Track. lVIeet Down Yellowjackets, 35 to 30, for .Second Win In Home-and-Home Se1·ies After Trailing Rocbestei' Tops Garnet Mer- Garnet Team Annexes Medley men, 40-31; Record Broken Relay; Bu1·,ton Leaps Six In 100-Ya1·d Dash Feet in High Jump At Half, 13 to 21 ~------------~-------- \Jiggs\ Rotunda, the \perfect F· rosh.·. Qui 8 n .. t·e·t WI·n·s History repeated itself Saturday By MILTON D. ·BEDELL substitute,\ proved he was more .afternoon w.hen the Rochester Uni- . F Alb T versity swimming team defea:ted Union made an ex<:ellent showmg than that Saturday night, when, rom anv : ' earn the Union mermen in the Foote at the Third Annual Track Meet upon his entry into the game, the · ' .J · . . ·Pool, 40 to 31. As in last year's sponsored by the Mercury A. C. of Union varsity five hit its stride and :meet, in which Rochester squeezed Albany Saturday night at the lOth S cored its second victory of the Podbielski, G. Smith A·d·d To out a 35 to 36 victory, the score was decided •by the relay, the last event. Infantry Armory, Albany. season over Rochester on the up- High Point 'Tot3!l In ·Only one point's dinerence stood Union Wins Relay state court, 35 to 30. Eight points between the Dutchmen and the Yel- behind at the end of the first half, :39 to 19 Victory lowjackets .att he end· of the 200- One of the most thrilling events the Dutchmen rallied behind Ro- yard breast stroke swim, but the of the evening was tb.e 3000-meter In the four official games which · Rivermen won the relay and eight Medley relay run. 'This event was tunda, who seemed to be wherever points for a v1'ctory the Garnet frosh basketball team.· , · won by the Union team consisting the ball was, passing and covering Led by WiHia:rd Smith, who sped has played this year, the Dutchmen through Union waters to lower a of Bill Brockwehl, Jack Ross, every man. 'have rolled up 15 2 points to their pool record in the 100-yard dash, Henry Hirst, and Ed :Bastedo. The Joe Milano, who played through opponents' 61, making an average the first half despite a heavy cold game's score of 38 to 15. Saturday· the Y.ellowjacl{ets took every first first 400 meters were run ·by which had prevented him from, 'night the cubs won their third game, place except in the bt'east stroke Bastedo, who was unable to gain f 1 t and the 400-yard f1·ee style event. jjracticing during the most o ·as . of the season by defeating the Mal Rhoades, who has improved ground but ran a heady race, and week, had been substituted at the Albany Boys' Academy- team in. beginning of the secend half by' Albany, 39-19. The yearlings had vastly in the past two meets, again on a beautiful pass of the baton to Rotunda. The 21 to 13 score at the everything their own way once took first place for Union in the Hirst the team picked up a two- . f th · d b 24 to .hey became accustomed -to the: breast stroke, while Maus Stearn; d 1 d H' t · 200 opemng o e peno ecame . and Carl Faelten scored the only yar . ea . rrs , runmng· 2·1 in a short while as the Garnet court, and they came .back re- first and second places for eithei meters, gained four ya11ds more, fl ·ve began to clr'ck so·lutely after the game with Mont · Pleasant. team in the distance swim. placing the Garnet team well in Foul Shots Valuable N<'W Record Voided the lead. Ross, former Albany U · ' · f 1 hootr'ng G. Smith, Podbiehski Star mons accuracy m ou -s The dives, which were won by Academy boy, started his 800 meter de monstrated its value. Captain L d b G t s \th d T d P d Le S tt f R h t . e y ran m1 an e · o - n we o oc es er, were on run with a six-yard margin over his Ray McDowell fliclted eightd in tto bielski who made all but nine of the whole fairly well executed.· In opponents. When he finally gave add to his high total in this epar - their team's points, the fresbmen che 150-yard backstroke event, the baton to Bastedo he had gained ment of the game. Moffett and J.ccounted for numerous baskets in Stratton of Rochester broke the Semerad also figured: importantly the final period. At the beginning pool record by ten seconds, but he :approximately thirty precious yards in the scoring. In the middle of of the game the A(!ademy team was disqualified for using illegal· on his nearest opponent. the period the Dutchmen began to took a slight lead with Bridge do- turns. Bastedo, having a forty-yard draw away from the Ye!lowjackets, ing most of the scoring. The The Summaries lead, wrus not threatened in the and before the end of the game had Garnet quickly overcame the start 22 o.ym·, 1 [Fe<> .slyle-(lrifJiths, Hm·h- 1600-mete·r run until a lap and a scored 22 points. of the Prep five, and drew away. ~ster, first; Fa ellen, t'nion, se<'OIHl; half from the tape. At this time, Hank Brinker, Russ Craytor, and As usual the fine passwork and Pa1·ego, ltoi'IIester, thin!. Time: ~ ::w. · Hahn, running for the ALbany MacCulley of Rochester, who had cooperation of the Dutchmen kept 50-ya.r<l t!ash-Hn11th, llo\.h\stei', fii•st: · Mercury Club, passed Baste clio. 1 t f th · · · th l ;riswuld, t 'nion, t{eeontl ; nriffi11g, . . E t d cone mos o e1r scormg m e the ball moving throughout the l'uiol!, third. Time: : 2 fi. 5 . With one laP. rema1nmg as e o first frame, failed to accumulate game. Sparkling on the defensive p:ve-Switt, Ho<'heste 1·, first, 73.~ began one of the most remarkable more than nine markers in the last. for Union were the Schultzs, Lenny points; Keen--', l\nion ~e<'ond, 71.7 sprints yet seen in the Albany McDowell starred in scoring for the ind Johnny, and McCarthy. Dayle ,Joints; lcr<lle, Ho<'hester. third, 61.:> district. When he .finally .flashed evening with 14 .points, while on the offensive, tallied three field po11',\~yanl free ~lyle--Stearns, l'nioli, • across the finish line he had a good Brinker was second with 13. Cap- JOals for Union. iirst: l>'aelteii, t ·niun, ;;e<·on<l: :l:leri\·in .. fifteen yards on. Hahn. Winning tain Flowers, who had been high r:oc·hester, third. 'l'ime: 6:17.6. this race gave the bunners the Ad- scorer for the Yellowjackets in the Prepare For R. :P. I. 1511-yanl lml'l'\troke - Hennin:<tol!, irondack A. A. U. A. championship. first tilt, scored only one basket Today and for the rest of the Hnc•hester, fii·st; Moulton, l'nion, sec·- T I S d for his team. and: Knox, lFnion, third. Time: l.5ll.4. Burton a res ooon week the yearlings will spend their !00-yard <lasll - tlmith, UoehestE'r, afternoons in practice for their first; llri;;wold, l\nion sec·ond; J>'razier, · Emery Burton entered in the T final game of the season Saturday l.lO<'he;;ter, thin!. Tim<': 5~.3 tpooJ rt>e- high jump against very formidable The Summary: Union (35) G McDowell, rf . . . . . . . . . . 3 Milano, If . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Rotunda, If . . . . . . . . . . . 1 \'Valdron, c ........... 1 Moffett, rg . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Semerad, lg . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Totals .............. 11 Rochester (30) G Brinket·, rf . . . . . . . . • . . . 4 Exeter, If . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Craytor, c . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 McCulley, rg . . . . . . . . . . 3 Flowers, lg . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Blowers .......•..•.... 0 Totals .........•.... 9 0•--- F 8 0 1 0 1 3 13 F 5 1 5 1 0 0 12 · h p I · Jrd 5 ~). competition took second place with 14 agamst t e R. . . <:Ubs. Depsrte 2tl0-yar'l hrea~t \trol<e - Hhoa<IP\· 'II 0 the 50 to 9 win which they took Union, fii·st; Jle wee•e. Hodiest€1', st'<'· a jump of 6feet :y., inches. BI 3 irom the Tute frosh in the first llld: Arger,;ingH, t'nion, thil'<l. 'l'ime: Eipel, w.ho defeated Burton last 2 game this season, the Garnet is .l :07.6. year in the I. C. 4-.A. meet, out- 7 taking no chances. ·lliU-yanJ l't\lay-H 1-'ni~Pr. jumped him again this year by two 9 Wnlworth, <li·Iffiths, Smith. inches to take first place. Eipel 35 The Summaries: 0 comes from Manhatt&n College and T Union Freshmen (39) G F T Fencers Win Second furnished mast of the competition 13 of the evening. 1 Podbielski, rf ....... '. 7 1 15 Meet From Williams Dave Waters placed fourth in 7 Doyle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 0 6 · ' the 1500-meter run against very 7 G. Smith, c ... ' .. ' .. '. 6 3 15 v· . . T Off I strong- field. Willely Ray of Man- 2 J. Schultz, rg .......... o 1 1 ISibng earn ers Litt e batten won the event in record time. 0 L. Schultz, Ig .......... o o o Opposition, Winning Only Ray has run against Cunningham, 30 Mc·Carthy ............. 1 0 2 Bonthron, and Venzke. Warrell Hawkes ............... 0 0 o Four of Seventeen Tilts Gammons ran the 800-meter race in Sextet Defeated In Last Five Seconds Gruelick .............. 0 0 0 2:08 to take fifth place. This is Spellman .............. 0 0 0 The Garnet fencers defeated Will- E-xtremely good time for a freshman Totals ..... , ...... , .17 5 39 lams for the second time this sea- and we may expect to hear more son, 13 to 4, here Saturday after- of Gammons in the future. Albany Boys' Academy (19) G F T noon. The long drawn-out match Endieott was unable in two early 7 was listless except for occasional races to develop any speed. In the 5 sparkling exchanges. Last month 200-meter race, however, he ran a 1 the Union intercollegiate-intramural fast race and came in for a speedy 3 fencers defeated the Purple at finish to take fourth .place. Clark 4 Williamstown, 15 to 2. Shields was froze out in the trials Bridg-e, rf . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1 Seay, If ............... 2 1 Sargent, c ........... , . 0 1 McCarthy, rg .......... 0 2 English, lg ............ 1 2 Intramural Basketball Leagues Standings AMERICAN w City Neutrals .............. 8 Phi Delta Theta ........... 5 Delta Phi ....... , .......... 5 Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . . . 3 Alpha Phi Delta ............ 4 Ka:ppa Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Chi Psi ..................... 2 Theta Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Kappa Nu . , ................ 1 Sigma Chi ............ , . . . . 0 NATIONAl. w Phi Sigma Delta . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . . . 8 Al·pha Delta Phi ........... 5 Lambda Chi Alpha . . . . . . . . . 3 Psi Upsilon ................. 3 Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Neutrals . , ............ , ..... 3 Theta Nu Epsilon .......... 3 Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Kappa Alpha ............... 2 Delta Chi ................... 0 * Schedule Tonigbt Agius .................. 2 Szumbrowski .......... 1 Totat8 ............... 17 DrUa. Upsilon (10) G Vesburgh .............. 0 Schneiderwind ........ 1 Fenton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Olosn .................. 1 Bedell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Stewart ... , ...... , . . . . 0 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 * * * L 0 1 Neutrals (19) G 1 Truex ..... , . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 Righthand , . . . . . . . . . . . 5 2 Lee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 5 Borst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 5 Patrie ................. 1 3 Totals ............... 9 6 Beta. Theta Pi (27) G 7 Meniman ............. 1 Brown .......... , . . . . . . 2 L Wells .................. 2 0 Krull . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 Templeton . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 4 .Totals ............... 11 3 3 3 5 4 5 5 5 8 * * Delta l'W (27) G Bloom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Nestle ............. 1 Purchase ............. 0 Palmatier ............. 2 Imrie ............. 3 Randall ............... 1 Totals ............... 12 Sigma Chi (9) G Rinehardt ............. 1 Hasbrouck . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Engesser .............. 1 McGee . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 7:30--Theta Delta Chi vs. Phi Gamma Delta. Finch ................ 0 Kling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 8:30-Alpha Phi Delta vs. Delta Phi. Tomorrow 7:30--Psi Upsilon vs. Alpha: Delta Phi. 8:30-Delta Upsilon vs. Neutrals. * * Results Kappa Alpha (10) G Nott .................. , 1 Partridge .............. 0 Betts .... , ............. 3 Edmonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Lawrence .............. 0 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Psi Upsilon (32) G Gane ................ , . 5 Duchscherer . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Gatchell ....... , . . . . . . . 2 Fe1·guson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Grant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 F T 0 ~ \ 0 0 2 8 0 0 0 c 2 1C F T 0 10 1 11 1 5 0 0 0 2 Estrich . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 * Kappa Ntl (11) G B. Cohen .............. 0 Seigle ................ 0 Berger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Miller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Olender ............... 0 Muroff ................ 3 Wahl .............. 1 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -1 Kappa Sigma (33) G Clark . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Lindabury . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Faelton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Rankin ................ 5 Halstrom . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Potts ........ , ..... 1 Totals ............... 16 0 0 0 F 0 1 0 0 1 () 2 F 1 0 0 0 0 1 F 0 1 0 1 0 5 Stevenson ............. 2 0 Totals ............... 15 2 • * • Lambda Chi Alpha (34) G F Adams ................ 6 0 4 32 T 12 ATTENTION SENIORS Register Now for Southern Positions 8anale ................ 2 0 Theurer ............... 1 0 Randall ............... 5 0 4 2 10 Associated Teache.xs' Agency Deland, Fl()l'ida THE UNION INN Meeting Place for Many Students who like goocl Sandwiches and Drinks. They Are the Best-Try Them Once YOU WILL BE SATISFIED 517 Union St. Tel. 4·2536 4 2 34 T 0 3 4 2 1 0 10 T 1 10 6 0 2 19 T 2 5 4 3 2 27 T 12 2 0 4 6 3 27 T 2 0 3 4 0 0 0 9 T 0 0 2 0 0 6 3 11 T 9 2 0 10 10 0 2 33 Garnet Hockey Team Plays At Top Form Against Strong Hamilton Outfit Dorsey ........ , ....... 0 0 Maning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 Totals .............. 6 7 o Bill Smith was the only Williams for the high hurdles. Again a . o man to score, losing only two of strong field was present and ~~~~~;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;~;;;;;~;;;~~;;;~~;;~;;~~ 19 the six bouts in which he engaged. Shields made a creditable showing. ~ Bob Slobod and Stu Rogers were Nolan, a transfer to Union running the only Union men with a clean unattached, ran one of the headiest slate. Ail ·before the epee .bouts races of the evening. He came in After their advances had been continually held off by the Union hockey squad Saturday at Clinton, the strong Hamilton sextet scored a 1 to 0 victory over the Dutchmen when they shot a: goal into the Gar- net cage in the last five seconds of play. Ken Thompkins, who became eligible for his place as goalie on the puck squad recently, played a nearly perfect game, warding off the consistent goal fire of the Ham- ilton offensive. With every player outdoing him- self, both tea:ms were showing their best exhibition of hockey in the game Saturday. Johnny Edwards. principal menace to the Union cage, scored the only goal in the last few seconds as both teams milled about the Union net. Third period Fast The visitors did most of the at- tacking in the first two periods, with Austin Fox giving his usual steady performance in the defense position and with Captain Bill Jen- kins and Doc Orton starring on the Garnet offensive. 'fhe third period afforded the most action as the Hamilton pucksters continually threatened the Union goal, only to have their shots stopped by Thomp- kins. With Phil Little, Union's star de- fense man, out of the game on ac- count of a wrenched knee, the Union squad met additional diffi- culties in the form of more injuries and penalties. Hugo Bergman at left wing was taken out with a cut cheek, and six penalties on Jenkins, Emans and Fox opened many opportunities to the home team. In the last period Fox and Jenkins stood in the penalty box together, while their teammates valiantly tried to prevent any scoring. The Summaries Uil.ion (0) Hamilton (1) G Thompkins ............ Baker LD Fox .................... Jones ---0--- ELMENDORF ON :PUBLICATION BOARD George Elmendorf '25, has been a.ppointed senior-representative at large to the Publication Board, it was announced this morning by Ralph Semerad, president of the class of 1935, Elmendorf will serve on the board for the remainder of the curren. t year. 0•--- BAND REHEA.RSAL Dr. Fox will attend a eehearsal of the band in the Trophy Room of the gymnasium, 7:30 tomorrow evening. All members are request- ed to be present. RD Warner .............. Massoth 0 Jenltins ..... , ....... Edwards LW Bergma:n ............ Woodin RW Orton .................. Ferry Scoring-First period: none. Sec- ond period: none. Third period: 1 Hamilton, Edwards, 19:55. Penal- ties: Hamilton: Jones, 2. Union: Jenkins, 2; Eamons, 2; Fox, 2. Spares-Hamilton: G. Smith, Mont- gomery, Doig. Union: Summer- hays, Emans. were substituted for by extra foil for a driving finish to take secon·d matches since the small Williams place in the 400-meter event. team did not have enOUI\'h experi- ence with the three-edged weapon. Summaries: Foils: Slobod <Ul-Smith, 5-3; Smith <Wl-Champ, 5-3; S!obod <U) -Cochrane, 5-0; Dewey <Ul-Stock- ing, 5-0; Sldbod (U)-Stoclting; 5-0; Champ (U)-Cochrane, 5-2; Champ <Ul-Stocking, 5-1; Smith (W)- Dewey, 5-3; Dewey (U)-Cochrane, 5-2. Sabres: Morrison (U)-McWhor- ter, 5-3; Seiche! <W)-Morrison, 5-2; Rogers (U)-McWhorter, 5-1; Rog- ers <Ul-Seichel, 5-2. Foils for epees: Morrison (D)- Cochrane, 5-1; Morrison (U)- Smith, 5-2; Smith (W)-Sheldon., 5-4; Ryder (Ul-Stocking, 5-0. FRANK FERRARO Fruit and Produce The best, for the least, with dependable service. 1231 Crane St. Tel. 2-7828-W CHARLES' Fo_:g~~ly I The Official Union College Barber for the past 24 years. .Ask any upper Cla.ssmen, they know. 11 I operators. Sahenectady's· greatest barber. COR. STATE AND DROADWAY Gazette Press -as they say at the Beaux Arts-just plairl Red and Black down on the farm-Brick Re<f ond Black-in Higgins.' American Drawing Inks. A great pair to draw tG -or with. The sixteen Higgins' Colors give a full house that you ccm Cllways bank on. CHAS. M. HIGGINS a CO., Inc. 271 Ni11lh St. Brooklyn, N. Y. HIGGINS' Ame.rican DRAWING INKS UNION COLLEGE BOOK STORE Room '5' Administration Building College Seal Jewelry Fountain Pens Pennants Leather Goods OUR NEW LINE CIGARETTES and SMOKING TOBACCO Hours-8:45 - 12:00, 1:15- 5:00 I.

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1935 'Clari'- DeaD's List- Leader and Manager of Glee Clult Tucker Smith to Address Democra<!y League Meeting· CALENDAR Today :F ·' (Continued from Page 1) (Continued from Page 1) He played Bob Acres in \The Emans, Clement A. Finch, Nelson. Rivals\ Don Jerome in \The A. Foot, Jr., Wallace T. Foote,. Duenna\ and Fulgens in \Fulgens Charles A. Gilmore, Jr., John D., ;,nd Lucrece.\ Hall, John L. Hallenbeck, Robert S .. Gertrude Keller who played Mrs. Langer, William C. Maguire, George Malaprop in \The Rivals\ will play A. McGee, John A. McGuke, Doh- the comedy role of Ves.pina in ald C. Mil'ler, Hobert C. North, Carl •·Clari.\ E. Olson, Thomas N. Palmatier, Another experienced actor, Philip· James L. Palmer, William H. Par- C. Humphrey wil play opposite Miss sons, Charles L. Reid, Jr., Raymond• Keller as Jocoso. F. Robinson, John Ross, Charles D. The lead male role, Duke of Stinard, Donald Trumbull, Michael Vivaldi, will be taken by William J. Tytko, Alvin VanValkenburg, Jr., Do,;cher who iS' now a student at Benjamin J. Wilson, Richard L. Temple University and is returning Woodruff, Morton H. Yulman. especia.U;y for the part whi'ch he BS in Civil Engineering: Michael created jn the first revival. E. Fiore, James V. Marotta, Albert' Other who will take part in the H. Stevenson. ca:;t an' Ellen Butler, .Jack Sperl- BS in Electrical Engineering: Ed- ing, George Kuehn, J. Herbert wa11d H. Bastedo, Howard G. Earls, Dietz, Kathet'lne Uehlin, Gertrude Philip Hutt, Willis B. Plummer, Keller, Mildfe<l l\iartin, Miriam BS in Chemistry: Kenneth J. Feldman, Alice Stone, William Frederick, Herman D. Kluge. Gondin, Louis Toussaint, Evelyn BS in Physics: Harold Howe. Gordon, Alta Hersey. The accompanist will be Donald K. Phillips. This season i6 the thirteenth of the Columbia Laboratory Players. They are not a p;roun of \students\ in the academic sense. Many of them have completed their college and university courses and are engaged in vaorious professional activities in New Yorli and vicin- ity. They include teachers, musi- cians, artisans, lawyers, and even newspaper men, all of whom look upon acting as an avocation. The Players will arrive in Sche- nectady on Friday night and stay at the homes of the faculty and fraternity houses. The entire cast will be the guest:> of Pre:;ident and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox for supper and have a reunion with Dr. Fox who while at Columbia University ~!lt:l one of the Players' chief sup- porters. A matinee performance at 2:30 o'clock and an evening performance flt 8:30 are scheduled. Because there are only 220 seats in the little Mountebanks theatre, all seats have -·---0·--- Glee Club- (Continued from Page 1) ::;on; and \Down Among the Dead Men,\ by Vaughn Williams. One of the::;e three songs will be required of each competing club. Solos Are Barrt'd Solos and accompaniment are barred by the rules, except in the case of the college song where ac- companiment may be used. The judges will count the song from the club's own repertoire as 30 per cent; the song to be specified at the time of the conte::;t, 50 per cent; and the college song as 20 per cent. A total or fifty pomts will be the maximum possible score for ea:ch song, to be apportioned as follows: tone, 10 points; enunciation, 10 points; ensemble, 10 points; inter- pretation, 10 points; and pitch, 10 points. The judges who are to be appointed may have no connection with any of the competing colleges. On the same trip, the glee club will sing at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel, New York City, Friday, March 8; at either Ridgewood, N. J. or Free- The third in the series ·Of discus\ sion lectUI\eS sponsored by the Lea- . gue for Industrial Democracy is scheduled for tomorrow night at eight o'clock in the Nott ·Terrace High School Auditorium. Mr. Tuc- . ker P. Smith wlll speak .on \The March of Labor.\ These l'ectures · . are given weekly at a season eo13t of .seventy-five cents. Mr. Smith, who had a wJ'de rep\ utation as a fighter for peace when · he was secretary of the Committee ·on Militarism in Education, is equally well known in the field of Workers Education where he is a port,. L. I., on Saturda.y, Mawh 9; a concert is being ananged for somewhere in the Metropolitan area on Sunday, March 10; a joint con- cert is s·cheduled with the re}lresen- tatives of the New England and Penn State glee club a:t Penn State College, State College, Penna., for Monday, March 11. Tbe glee club will return to Schenectady on Wed- nesday, March 13, to ·conclude a round trip of 1,000 miles. director of the Brookwood Labor College. Brookwood offers a cross section of American labor studies · repr:esenting different unions, in- dustries a.nd political convictions. TICli.ETS FOR \CLARI\ Students wishing· to reserve seats for John Howard Payne's operetta, \Clari or the Maid of Milan\ which the ColumbiBJ Lab- oratory Players will present in · . the Mountebanks Theatre, Satur- day matinee, at 2:30 p. m., :and · in the evening at 8:30, should . · make .application for tickets at . the News Bureau, in Silliman • Hall. 'I'ickets for matinee are · 50 and 75 cents; tickets for eve- · ning performance are all $1. CIVIL SERViCE EXAMS Information concerning civil serv- ice examinations, heretofore posted oti the bu.lletin board, is now on file in the Admissions Office. All stu- dents who are interested may come in and look at them. 7:3G-Classical Club Meeting, Dr-:: Kellogg. '! 8:00-German Club Meeting, :' SilHman Hall. Smith College Dance Group at : i Mont Pleasant High School. Tomorrow , : 10:0o-Daily Assembly, Benjamlt1 [ Roberts, '37. ': 3:30-5:3G-Glee Club Rehearsal, ' Hanna Hall. ': 4: 30-Publicatiori Board Meeting., , i Administration BUilding. 8: oo-L. I. D. Lecture, Mr. Tucker- i: P. Smith, Nott Terrace High:' School. '· Thursday i 10:0o-baily Assembly, Mr. Hugh;: H. Bennett, Director of Social : Economies, Department of the i · Interior. 8 :3(}---Schubert Ciub Conce~:t, ; Memorial Cha:pel. Fl'ida;y lO:Oo-Daily Assembly, Dr. El-: mer A. Tidmarsha 1 RUSHING COMMITTEE NOTJOJ>: There will be a short meeting of the fraternity recruiting agents in Siliman Ha11 Thursday afternoon at 1 P. M. Further developments of Sub-Freshman Week-End will be discussed. All groups are requested to attend. PLEDGE NOTICE The Delta Upsilon fraternity takes pleasure in announcing the pledging of Charles Honikle '38, of Albany. ' IJcen reserved. Milton M. Enzer, is in charge of arrangements. Yale News' Plan- (Continued from Page 1 l racy and other forms and theories of human organization. If it was considered desirable to study them when their adherents were few, it is necessary to study them when their adherents are many. We have to dwell and deal with other parts of the world, whatever their pecu- liarities. Students in this country would not commonly begin their study of politics with Fascism and Communism and they are ap- proached with a broad understand- ing of Anglo-American institutions as a background for comparison. Not many of the smaller colleges would feel that they could afford a whole course on these two sys- tems, yet even among such institu- tions, occasionally, the personality and equipment of a certain teacher makes such a specialized course a rich cultural experience. The selection, buying and preparation of the right kinds of Turkish tobaccos for making Chesterfield Cigarettes • ZS nungPI' l.i!'S In Teaebf'r \The real dangct·, ot· rather the posoible danger, lie,; in the attitude of the teachet·, nol that he will at- tempt to convert his classes to the:;e philo:;ophie~ and programs, but that he will hold them up to xidicule, as if no ci viii zed, well-in- tentioned man could consider them practicable and beneficent in the respective European countries that have st>t them up. It i!'l well for UR to remember the thesis of Montes- quieu that what is very bad for one people may work fairly well with another. Not many Americans at present think that either of these two systems would work well in this country. But it is wholesome for us, too, especially the horri'fied critics of the Yale curriculum, to take to ourselves the irascible Cromwell's admonition to a stub- born Parliament, stirred as he was to a most unseemly blasphemy, 'I beseech ye, by the boWels of Christ, to remember that ye may be wrong.'\ ----o---- Explodes Theories- (Continued from Page 1) popular theory that intelligence was one of the results of having dexter- DUB hands when he pointed out that the dinosaUls in this region, which were not intelligent, had well-de\·el- oped fingers and hands. After the glacial period came the age of lakes, the remnants of which may still be seen. Lake Geor~e. for ex.ample, has some islands that were once part of the great Hudoon Valley. In concluding he said, \The earth does not lose Its energy; seas may still cover the land, mountains will be levelled, and as the yeat·\ go on the earth will do as it has done before. The course of the Hudson will also be again changed ot• de- stroyed.\ De Witt•s Lunch 118 JAY STREET Opposite New Ctiy H1ll ~···:<·: .. Handling Turkish tobacco in the Liggett & Mym modern factory at Smyrna, Turkey. a business in itself • • • W E have buyers in all the to- bacco markets of Turkey and Greece, including Xanthi, Cavalla, Smyrna and Samsoun. And at Smyrna Chesterfiel4 has built the most modern to- bacco plant iu the Near East. Here the spicy, aromatic Turkish leaf is sorted and graded under the eyes of our own tobacco men. Then it is put away to age m its own climate for two years or more to make it milder and better-tasting. When you blend and cross-blend the right kinds of aromatic Turkish tobacco with mild ripe home-grown tobaccos as we do in Chesterfield you have ... the cigarette that's milde1· the cigarette that tastes bt~lteJ MONDAY LUCREZIA BORI WEDNESDAY LILY PONS SATURDAY ANDRE KOSTELANETZ 40 PIECE ORCUEST!lfs KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CBORl 9 P. M. (E. s. T.) -COLUMBIA NE'J'WOR.b. @)1935, LIGGETT & MYERS TonAc<.<> c,. f I t.

Dr. i Meeting,: Group at :i School. :: Benjamlt1 , [ : ' Meeting., , i Tucker- i: High:' ,; i Mr. Hugh;: of Social', of the ! : Conce~:t, ; , Dr. El-: i NOTJOJo: meeting of agents in at of will be requested fraternity the ·as, of its eld ' ORCUEST!lfs TDDAC(.t> Ct. -·······-·---·-~ r Emmet Matinee And Evening Performances Of \Clari\ Tomorrow I Honorary Fell()W To Visit Campus ,.,..... ____ .... - ...... .. ·c--=..o _ _c_-=-==-===-============== UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY:, N.Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1935 PRICE FIVE CENTS Vol. LVIII., No. 36 Emmet, Engineering Fellow Young Authors Must be Intelligent ColumbiaLaboratoryPlayers To Visit Campus Next Week Readers, Says Pound in Interview·lll Payne's 'Clari' Tomorrow By CLEMENS F. HATHAWAY .commentators and critics. They '\A young auU10r must be an in·· have a broad: background, but just telligent reader of magazines and fall short of doing the outstandin~;;' good .books, both contemporary and :work. For this there is a definite q.~----------------------~---- Mouliltebanks Show Rare Payne Items Rib-Tickling Melo d r am a Sponso1·ed By The Mountebanlis Dr. William LeRoy Em~ met Authority On Stearn 'Turbines To Malee Three Addresses Will Speak in Ch:lpel And Enghle-edng Classes Tuesday Dr. William LeRoy Emmet, world known inventor and developer of steam tUlbines and the met.cmy vapor proceos· of creating power, vdll vi~it the .campus next week fot a ~et·ies of ledutes to dtudents and info1mal confetences with the fac- ulty, as part of his duties as Honor- ary Fellow itt Engineeiing. Honorary Fellow DR. WILLIAM LEROY EMMET • classical literature;'' stated Arthur ·reason--on most campuses, every . Pound, in charge of the New York ptece .of written work can be traceu. Editorial office of the Atlantic, back to some book on the libra! y Monthly and well-known author of :shelf.\ books and articles on colonial his- Mr. Pound who was g·rauuateu tory, industdat history, as well as from the University of Michigan. ·several novels, in an interview with where as an undergraduate he Sehenectady, \Dull Hole,\ AI· bany, \Poor Shabby;\ Wrote Playwright a Concordielisis repovter during his was editor~in-chief of the Michig<.<n visit this week to the campus. Mr. ·Daily. After graduation he went Pound, now engaged in writing a mto newspaper work in the West. series of articles on what he be- ·and was shortly thereafter sum- 'The capitLtl of the Empire State Play Matinee and Evening President and Mrs. Assure Entertaining Performances Fox lieves to be the significant phases moned to the East and eventually is descri.bed by John Howard Payne, of the twelve largest .corporations New York whet e he became an edt- \Albany itself is a poor, shabby- in the country, was in. Schenectady torial wr.iter, .first for the New York looking lit tie clump of houses,\ in Although audiences took it serl- to gather ma.tedal for an article on Post, and later for the New Yorl\ ously when first produced in 1823 the ReseaH:h Divis.ion of the Gen- Herald. When the latter papet \ letter that the author uf the cele- s , in Covent Garden, England, \Ciari eral Electric Company, which will merged with the New York Tnbune brated \Hom(' weet Home' wrote · appear in the April issue of the At- in l\J24, he toolr up magazine ana his tathet in 1806 aftl\l' coming here or the Maid of Milan\ by John , !antic Monthly. He was the guest book authorshrp, spendmg much 01 ir<Jr,l Ne.v York a.o a student at Howard Payne, former Union stu- of Dr. and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox his time m Ho;:;ton anu .L'Iew ':i: Ot li. lJnion Lollege. This letter with dent, is today as rib-tickling a mus- and worked in Dr. Charles N. Wald- . Union Can Make Creative Writers other rare ~-ayne items are in an ical melodrama as the recent re- mn's office during his four day : '\Writer·s need courage to say ex.hibition set up by the Mounte- <>tuy. what they think needs to be said in banks Theatre in its ante-room in vivals of \The Drunkard,\ or \Uncle Lay Hold of Life and Knowledge their own way with the conviction celebration of the production to- Tom's Cabin,\ believe President and Continuing on the subject of that no one else will say it in their mmrow of Payne';:; famous melo- Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox of Union Col- young would-be writers, he said, ·way,\ he continued. \Union might dratna, \Ciari or The Maid of lege who saw the Columbia Labora- ·\The impot·tant thing in writing , well become the one small college M:ilan.'' lies in the ability to lay hold of life in America to turn .out a host ot Among the rare items is the orig- tm·y Players give two performances and lmowledge. Colleges turn out a ·strong creative wtiters by encour· ina! manuscript of \Home sweet of this musical play. Dr. Emmet will speak to all the students uf the college in the Mem- orial Chapel on. 'I'uesclay mm·111ng at 10 ()'clock. llis subject has not yet been announced. ln the after- noon be will speak to t_he s~udent>< in the divisi()n of engmeermg. on the develop!Uent of steam turbme>' and other· sources· of power. Ch • B host of capable secondaty writers. aging its students to be originaL Hon1e,\ entitled however, Home, It was through Dr. Fox's close Vl \enna O'~'~r oys By these I mean editodal writers, It 1s much easier for the small col· Dear Home\ which Payne wrote · · II. 'U' assoctatlon with the Laboratory l lege to make that fine distinction. while at Union College, and which players in New York while he was liiTiU Give R e cit a Old E li h S\l e The driving force in writing is \VaS found many years later among at Columbia University, that the Vl ng . s I v r ps:ycbic--it i::; the nenous qualny in the papers of his good friend Har- Mountebanks of Union College were To Huld Oonferi:'DCI'S He Wlll tn.en .carry on informal conterences with the fil;cul.ty on engineering problems, ~nng~ng to thetr theoretl.cal di~cussron hts ?wn long experience m the Umted States Navy and at the Ge~eral h.lectric L.ompany where he lS a consulting engineer. . Musical Hierarchy Composed Of Young Boys; Founded By Emp()rer in 1498 On Exhl .bl•t at Tea pro,;e that give~ it power. Editors manus Bleecker of Albany. The able to secure these professional and publishers the world over are lJnion College library, now owner players for performances of this ·hungry for good worlr. Anyone wr·it· of this item, also loaned the exhibi- comedy in the Mountebanks Thea· · mg well will some day be accepted. tion two scores of the song printed tre tomorrow afternoon and eve- Mrs. Birdsall Talks About (Continued on .Page 4) in. 1825; a first edition of \Clarl\ nlng. ----o---- tl823J, annotated in pen for u.se Comic Tragedy Sheffield Plate To G e 0 l 0 g y EX h •. b •. t as a prompt book; the epil()gue To Theatre-goers of the nine- On Thursday, Dr. Emmet. wtll again address the students, direct- ing his remarks especially. to the juniors arrd seniors prep~rmg f<>:r careers in civil and electncal engt· neering. Dr. Emmet will ~p~ak on what personal .charac~er1sttcs h_e believes are destrable 111 an engl· neer. Studied at A.nnapolis Dr. Emmet was born in. New Rochelle and prepared for ius pro· fession at the U. S. Naval Academ~ at Annapolis where he was gradu· ated in 1881. He holds hoD:o~ary de· grees from Union and Trtmty Col- leges. After a c:'l~eer: in the Nav::,. he returned to ctvtl l!fe as an elec· trical engineer and later joi~ed tht General Electric Company 111 1892, where he has since carried his ,re- searches, e::xcept for the per~od when he ree-ntered the Navy durmg the Spanish-American War. His most Important work has been in steam turbine invention~ and developments, and more re· cently his inventions and develop- ments of thE mercury vapor powet process. He is the author of. sev· eral books, :many technical artteles and is chairman of the Naval Con- sulting Board committee on sub- marines. He is a member of. the Amel'ican PhilosophicS;l Soctel:[, national academy of scte.nce, Soct- ety of Nava.l Architects. and M~xine Engineers and past vtce-presrdent of the A~eriean Institute of Elec- trical Engineers. Dr Emmet is the third of the seve~ Honoral'Y Fellows appointed this year by President Dixon Ryan Fox to visit the campus. The other four honorary fellows scheduled f~t brief residellces on the campus thtE semester are\: Dr. Henry Seidel Canby, editor of the Saturd~y Re- view of Literature, fellow m let- ters; Harry Wilson Watrous, presi- dent of the National .Academy Association_, fellow in art; Waite! Winston Price, of the brokerage firm of Livin:gston and Co., fellow in business; and George l:'f. Dal Py, sports editor of the New Yotk Her- ald-Tribune, fellow in athletic sports. ---a--- w • ('1 b Payne wrote as a student for a t t There is no oragni:zation in the oman S · U } O M d play in which he acted the only een h century, when lace valen- world quite comparable to that Wi 1 nen on ay female part; and some original tines and surgery sentimentalism unique company of boys, the Vienna J:\ 1 tt g them those to his reached their peak, \C!ari\ was a S . · M1·s. Edgat· Birdsall, of Glens e ez·s, amon comic tr g d ·11 t ti th Saengetlmaben -- or the mgmg . Maps, !Rocks, and :Fossils To father. a e y, 1 us ra ng e Boyb of Vienna- who will engage ):t'alls, whose grandfather graduated EnJ\oyed Hudson working·s of conscience in a girl the attention of Schenectady on f u . c 11 · 182 \ xh·b·t Illustrate Many Phases who has left her poor but honest . 1om tuon o ege tn -, e 1 1 • From t·he letters we learn that pare ts t ith February 25th in the Memonal H n o run away w an Italian Chapel. ed a pat t of the Brainaz d Lemon Of Earth's is tory \the jaunt up the Hudson is on~ of nobleman . .As the play opens, Duke They arc members of a musical Collection of old English Silver at a the most pleasant on the continent Vivaldi, played by William Dol>Cher, hierarchy that was founded in 14.98 Faculty Woman's Club tea Wednes- Becau;:;e of the interest which wa>< ... The passage through the high- has I_od~ed Clari, played by the d f E shown in the geologic history o1 lands is sublime and original--1 beautiful Miss Hopper, in a magni- by the imperial ect ee o ' mperor day in the home of Dr. and Mrs. the Hudson Valley region as de- never found anything more strik- ficent suite, but she is not at all Maximilian, when a group of boy 1 th · . Dixon Ryan Fox. DUJ ng e exhr- scribed by Professor ln·ederick K. ing; nor can a more magnificent happy in her gilded cage. She ex- bition, which was e 10m o Morris ot Massachusetts Institute \'IOspect be described.\ As for presses her chagrin that the Duke singers were ordered to sing a datly h ld f 2 t 7 mas:o; undet· the auspices of the k b t ..- o'clocl{, Mrs. Birdsall tal ed a ou of Technology in his Spencer Lee- Union College, he said: \'This col- will not marry her because of her Colll t Ot che;:;tra of Vienna. For d the types of Old English silver an ture last bnday night, Ptofessot lege is universally railed at h~re for ra~k, but when he tells her of a Sheffield Plate, tracmg t e 1 eren Edward S. C. Smith has announceci the excessive and unexampled rig· magnificent show he has prepared neaJly five hundred years, up lo the · h d\ff t pres,nt time, the twditicn~ of this forms through the Georgian Period. an exhibition of rocks, fossils, min- idity of its governors .•. Bad, as it for her private enJ\oyment she for- organization have been ltept intact h h'b\t' ts and their· ideal:; inviolate. llnder the Admittance to t e ex: t t ton was erals, color~d maps and diagrams ooay be, I cannot, now, be disap- ge all about it. care and tutelage of the State, their open to the public for fifty cents and and other material that will illus- pointed • • ,\ A year later, he By chance, however, the \stroll- reason for being has been to sing to students fwm 6 to 7 o'clock ftee trate more fully this phase of earth writ.es that \we pay $6 (six) for col· ing players\ act a parody of Clari's fine musical worl<.s chota!, oper- of charge. science. lege tuition.\ The weather in Feb- kidnapping. Just as the mock a tic and religious· -without PI ofes- \Old English silvet·, to be truly · The exhibition, now being a.t- ruary, 1807, he said was \open and farmer-father curses his daughter sionali;:;m or a need tor glory. antique and to command an antique ranged by the advanced students tn relaxing.\ for running away with a nobleman price,\ said Mrs. Birdsall, \must be ~geology together with P10fesso1 Broadsides of the first production Clari, stricken with remorse, rushe~ Liv£' in Anci~>nt ImpPrinl castl<> 'lt !Pal't one hund 1 ed years old. It Smith and Mr. Toppan, will open of \Clari\ in London, 1823, and on the stage, crying \Curse her not! has attained its high quality in great Monday afternoon in the new labor- .. Douglas\ in which Payne acted in She is not lost, she is innocent!\ The members of the Saenger· part because of the protection which atmy acquired recently by the ge()- 1813, letters from Jenny Lind who <maben live touay- -as always in the British government places on its logy department, downstairs in played the role of Clari in 1858, and Though she is later penitent, the ancient imperial castle, the silver to guarantee it as good as ·south College. Entrance to thi:;, a letter to a friend in Albany, say- Clari's \poor but proud\ parents Vienna Hofburg, where once Haps- money. One can definitely identify room is from the side facing the ing \your situation must be pleas- will have nothing to do with her, burg royalty tread its venerable a piece of .silver, can even know the ·Memorial Chapel, through the so- anter, if not more propitious t<J in- and complications ensue. In the corridors. Het e the::;e boy:; worlr and exact year of its make and often its called fre:;hman enttance to the Old. tellectual improvement, than ours, end, however, still with her virtue study, eat, play and sleep. They pay maker, by means of the hall mark- Chapel. I in this dull hole of a Schenectady\ triumphant, she is taken back by nothing, but they have dedicated ing on each individual piece. The -were loaned the exhibition by Mr. her father when the Duke decides their boy!lood to music. It is the silver of the Georgian p~rio<i i,s of a : Willis T. Hansen jr., president of to marry her anyway. dream of countiPss thousands of very high quality, no hall mark be- CALENDAR · the Schenectady Union National All thmugh the play there runs .Aush ian boys to be invited to join ing allowed unless it tested 92.5 per Today :Banlt and one of Payne's bio- the sub-plot of the love affairs of the Raengerlrnaben. cent pure. Since it required 17 years : · · graphers. (Continued on Page 4) . 8:00 .varsity Basltetball, Umon But few are called, though many for Sir Charles James Jackson to vs. M. I. T., Alumni Gymnas- ------------~-----------------------------=~~-~- yeam. Only forty of them .a:e write his book on British Hall : · 71 I. • l A • t • Q • housed in the castle, after ngid Marks, the system ia not one that . ~0~~. ~~:m~~ll~g~n~~n c;~: lJI'.l.USZCa . pprecza ton 'P•nortunzties competitive examinations. 'Twenty- can be explained in a few minutes necticut. '.1:' (Continued on Page 4 ) time. ' Tomonow Presented on the Campus Are Varied Tohn ITO. wa~d Dayne Wrote His Daily Assembly-- Member of J ~ .J..IJ 1 ' .C I \Clari\ east to speak. 2:0o-Varsity Hockey, Union vs. Own TIT Out of Debtor.'o' Prz·son Middlebury, at Schenectady. . ,,.. ay 0 2:30-Fencing, Union vs. Colgate at Schenectady. 2:30-\Clari\, Presented by the Columbia Labma:tory Players, · Mountebanks Theater, Matinee. 8:30--\Clari\, Varsity Basketball, Union vs .. Hamilton at Clinton. casts another recital over station WGY, sometimes with the Glee Club, the string quartet or the vocal quartet on the program. The interest in chamber music among the students led to the or- ganization some years ago or a. string quartet. Today the group ap- pears with the Glee Club at its con- certs, and commands respect both for the quality of their music and its execution. Student Council Sets Mareb An editor at the age of ten, John Hownnl PaynP wa>l an !''l(perienC'('d author when he came in 1823 to write his most famous work, \Clari or the Maid of Milan,\ which the Columbia La.boratory Players will present in the Mounte:banks theatre Saturday afternoon and night. In 1813, having tasted. fame and fortune on the boards, Payne went to England, and thence to France, where Napoleon had just returned from Elba. In Paris he wrote a translation of \The Maid and the Magpie,\ the successful sale of which sent him on the road to fame as an author. Then he wrote \Brutus a tragedy. Freshman Basltetball, Union vs. · R. P. I. at Troy. · Swimming, Union vs. Trinity Col- I lege at Hartford. Bach, Beethoven and Brahms and other important composers are usually just \big names\ to college students, but here at Union the works of these men are very fam· iliar to most of the undergraduates, especially in the last decade, during which Elmer A. Tidmarsh has been director of music and college organ- ist. In recognition of this, the Car- negie Foundation has presented lJnion with one of their valuable musical collections, a phonograph, records, books and musical scores. The choral groups of Albany, Schenectady, Troy, Kingston and Poughkeepsie are also directed by Dr. Tidmarsh and they give a.t least one combined concert on the cam- pus at Commencement time. The professional soloists there organiza• tions bring to the college provide the· students with another source of musical education. 18 For 1935 Block U Dinner The date for this year's Block U dinner has been set for March 18, according to an announcement made bilfore lhe Student Council Wednesday l>y James Loomis, '35. An effort vrin probably be made to interest more local alumni in this function tban in the past. The Oou.ncil voted that hereafter Terrace Councilmen must buy their own keys. Tile feeling w~ that stu- dent money should not be used to support a boc!y that is now purely honorary. Raymond :MacDowell '35 reported that the Athletic Department does not appro-ve of ~issuing complimen- tary tickets t() students participa- ting in va-rsity contests for the use ot their friends. While still a child in New York City, Payne became editor of a children's magazine called \The Fly,\ and then, attracted to the theatere, he suneptitiously became the editor of a paper calleu \The Thespian Mirror.\ He was forced by family poverty to enter business, and his distaste for it made him glad to accept an offer to go to Union College, made him ·by a Mr. Seaman,. a wealthy New Yorker whom William Coleman editor of the New York Evening Sun had interested in Payne. Accordingly, he went to Union in 1806, to spend two happy years there. In 1808, his father's finan- cial troubles caused him to leave, and he went to Boston there to be· com.e m~ actor. But finncial reverses crowded upon him, and a venture in the· atrical promoting on his own hook brought bim to prison for debt. His facile pen wrote his way out, however, for he made enough out of a play \Therese which he com· posed in .prison, to pay off his debts. Later, Payne sold a ibatch of three .plays to Charles Kemble, manager of the Covent Garden Theatre in London, and thought no more about it. One of these was \Clari which Kemble decided to produce in 1823. Payne was sltept- ical as to its value, and on the opening night his name was not at all conspicuous on the posters of (Contin~ed on Palfe 4) Sunday . 11:15--Sunday Service, Preachei\ · Dr. Hugh Blaclt, Union The()- Jogical Seminary. 4:0Q--Organ Recital, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. : Monday 10:0Q--Student Body Meeting,, Old Chapel. Tuesday Daily Assembly, Speaker, W. L. R. Emmet, Honorary Fellow. 12:45--Radlo Club Meeting, Room 21, Electrical Engineering Ia~ oratory. 1:30-Y. M. C. A. Meeting, SHU- man Hall, Although in the formal cunicu- lum music is represented by a single course, \Music Appreciation,'' the students are given such a ~Jreat variety of extra-curricular music that they learn to appreciate in a much more practical fas·hion. Throughout the college yeat• there Is always some important musical event golng on, either on the cam- pus or in the city. Most of this the college maltes available to its stu- dents at little or no admission charge. Dr. Tidmarsh leads the students !~ singing every Friday morning in the Chapel. At the regular Sunqay afternoon organ recitals he plays programs from the works of mod- ern as well as classieal composers, aud on Friday afternoons he broad- Perhaps one of the flnest choral groups on the campus is the college choir, composed of selected voices from the Glee Club. Their Sun- day services are broadcast by sta- tion WGY. The coilege also has as daily organist Professor Wanen C. Taylor, and Tony Sharpe and Charles Reid, two students wh<> are Glee C!uQ accompaJ;I~sts, plan to give joint organ and pianD recitals in daily assembly. ;' ~ ,I

·l 'I Two THE CONCORD!ENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1935 THE COLLEGE WORLD By FRED FELDMAN ~ ·t.ftt·.S· 1 ·· 5 · before they are caught in the swirl of n:ta- ·. · terial life withm1t intellectual experience . Four yeat·s are short. Let students awake I enoug·h to keep theH1 afloat. 1.:=;;;;;;;;======================....-.L' AROUND THE WORLD By RIOIIARD SNYDER \.·1 Causa Per sa Parole :1 ssai\ FOUl\llED 1&77 . A professor at Syracuse Univer- sor should not become prejudiced The recent invasion of Abyssinia sity put into wot•ds the ,sometimes- against a student who cuts his class by the Italia·n troops is, in a sense, UNION CAN MAKE CREATIVE WRITERS intense, sometimes-indifferent feel- for a week or two. It is essential a postponed carrying out of the Mf::\'lGfR ~sotiated @'ollegiat~ 1lh~ss ...;f934 <rro~~~:IDi.or.t~t t93S ~ S f ing of students. that gzades tha-t are that the student be mo1e com;cien-· Ver:mille,; Treaty. To recaN briefly, ome 0' the 8iate:ments made Lly A-l·thur just black-on-white marks beside tious than he has eV-'1\ .be<m befUie. Italy wa,; ,pr·oml:;ed tcriitory in Pound in the interview which is pubiished the absences a·nd presences in a After all, only pi,ofessor,; who do Aftica if she would fight with the HA!»SSrf WJS(.UNSIN little boolt are not sufficient to tcH not malte their cla::;ses appea!J.ng, AHies, but uue to cl;pwmatic difti- el:,;ewhel'e in this issue should rnake the staff what a :otudent knows about a and thetefme only tho,;e who do not .cultit>s, Italy m·vcr r·ealized her t>nd of the field of Eng-lish sit up and take notice. cour:oe. It is gratifying to :;orne to t·eally h·ach, in any sense of the ·of the agrec>ment. The presc>nt !tal- learn that the majority of collt>ge wol'll, Will be cuL Why shouldn't mn activities in Africa arc, appar- ·•LJHion nlig·ht well becon1e the one snutll col- professors a1e of the same opinion, they, if their cla.s~es only serve to ently, condoned by the 1-est 0f Eu- St•lt· atul t:x.lu·i\l' :\:.tLt .\._1\'\'lti .. it~g l_!t•prt•~ ~l'll·f:tli\'t', :S;ti'.IP]I,ll .\c\\'l'lii:--lls:..! ;-;t-•1'\ll,t', llh'., 11 \\\L·~t ~~ud ~L.. ~. Y. L~ .• ..J.ol) :-.:-~.~. .:\'Ltvlugau .\ \'l'., Clliea~~~. Illitl•li:O:. ; le~re in America to turn out a host of strong· tha.t they are not w-holly heartless rnalte a student sleepy'? tope. However, Mussolini has a ~· mathematicians and statistician::;, * * * coumgeous foe in the Abyssinians. The official new:;paper of the students of Union College. Publishcou Tuesday,; and F'ridays throughout the c-ollege year, <c>xcept during Christmas and sp1 ing 1 eces~es. : CI'eative writet'S by encom·ag·ing its students that they would like, certainly, to· The Bohart H!\i'alu had to resort Some years ago the~e fighting pe0- to l.Je orig·inal •.. \ We do not mean to inlply gl-Ve each student a personal exam- to the lullowin~ as fill-in fat• the ple ue·feated the Italian t!OO].JS. J\~ ination if such were .possible. last page of thek Ia test issu<~: a wol'ld powet·, Italy cannot affon.l -------------- that originality is discauraged here, but we • \' \' to lose Abyssini<t. \Since the ideal 0 r semi-idE'al of InteHigence Test· ··1. How many' Publication OffiCl', The Gazette Press, 334 State St, Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the HcheneC'tady Post Office as Soconcl Class Mail Matter Subscription priC'e Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Room:;, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Clemens F. lluth\way .......... Eclitu!·-in-ChiPf t ·,,, l':-d I. ,,'i~-r.• J.t,; .:.:; Joseph A. Woolman .......... Managing Editor L\:.t,, 1 ~.L :\:11 H··:~~~· 1-::~:n Wi !Ibm H. Fitzgl'!\ald ...... Bu:<iness Ill :maf{t\r l ),.Jfa l'p!~:l•·ll ll••tt ... t•-·1-';~1:!:.! Milton A. l3ergt·t· ................ Sport~ Hc!itor 1\:·ippa :\n Ht~ll\'l' --1·i;J3l Thomtun \\'. Whipple ..... Circulation ~lanuget l'ltl 1':-.1 LPdt-:,t• l·t,j·~~ ASSOCIATE EDITORS John D. Ander,;on. Albert H. Stevenson ltobelt C. North YanVeehten Trumbull \Vallace T. Foote ----- ·------------ --- - ·-------- M. Uedell S, R. Cohen F. l?eldman \'l. Ferguson Sophomore Board Assistant Editors :F'. (}age C, Garrison G. Haskell \V. Horstmann R. Passenger R. Snyder N. Ste1vart tee! that a strong-er plea could be mad·e for education is one whi'ch demands the penny lolly-pops can you buy for u - . l't \VI . d th 't intimate knowledge· by the instruc- cent and a quarter'? 2. Which is , ong-111a l y, 1en a recog-nize· au on Y on tor of his students,\ bays thb pw- . correct. \Lemons are sweet,\ or \l'l'iting· makes SUCh statements as included fessor, \a grade should represent \Lemons is sweet'\t 3. Who is bur- l ld . not only what is actually· -obtain(,'c\, ied in Grunt's tomb, and if not,' HI the inte1·view, hi'-' counsel s 1ou · be QWen v•·I1\? • WI1 t 1 1 · blu · t \' - on examinations, but al:;o that· \ J • \'· a co o ' Is e VI - Jue consideration. which is revealed of the students roil? An<! so on und so on for . ability dur·ing more or less 'off-the- mor\ than half a column. Tlw five- It is sig-nificant to note that .l\11'. Pound record' classrootn r-ecitations and year-old brother of a friend of om:-; mentioned nothing- a;bout the .study of gTam- conferences. is continually asking us the ;;arne \!!'or instance, if a. student ~;how:; kind of que;;tions. He asks them Hlat' as an essential to a university back- excellent progress throughout the with the ide:1 that they arc really ground fol' write1·s. Intelligent l'ectding of semester·, but lacl\s the complete funny. Th_e nine-year-old sistet· of l'nowledge of the cour:;e at its end, 1' \:0°t~er fn~nd a_:;~·,;· -th~ .\':1me. qu,l'~­ gDod magazines and g-ood books, both class- and if hb ultirnate grasp of the bUb- tJOns, but ~he _1 <'dllZE'-; m dotng 1t · 1 d )\t t · th k Ject is obvious, 1 might waive exam- I tha.t the questJOnR themselv~s ar~ ICa an Contemporary 1 era Ure, IS . e ey- mation arades to some extent. not f~nny, but the wry askmg oi note to g-ood writing- according- 1:0 111·. Pound. ., .. * , thl'm Js. The professor also recommend~ Are we to assume that the edi- Ilis experiences in the fields of journalism that clu,;ses be lmpt small, that one tors of thr Herald bPionr,- to thr !at- and book writing peove that his fo1·1nula has p10febwr :;houlu nut JHepa~e anu tH gl oup. or men't we to del'ide at mark the examination for another\;· ' 1 11 which group they bt'long to't lJeen ,successful. cour;;e, and said that gmd.ing by - ·--- o --- Nevertheless, the point which he stressed Firsts, Seconds, Thirds, etc. wa~ ~atisfactory. S01ne students, Wl' I about college writing being too. often traced know, think that a much molt' n~ TH:E MAIL to the libnuy shelf must be gu<.trded ag-ainst. ~greeable met:ttod would be a grad- To the Et!i~or of the Concot·diensis: ~.ng S:(stem ';ISing only ~hr~e m~rk~:- For the past two years at least, Good books and magazines nmst be used as pas~.ll1!?. Wl.~h honor, . passll:g._ r·ematlt:> inspired by the inner sane- guides to good writing-, not as som·ce ma- and failing. It w?uld be _tuo d!ftl- tUl\ll of the Concordy have appe:u ed cult for a pr o~essot to ~ecJde, the,:, in the issU<.!S ptecedin15 Heil Week. terial. on what _to gtve _a pal\tJCular pupt! lt ::;eems that the high water mal'lt Judging_· fl·om what .i\lr. Pound said, the who vacillated JUst bet ~ect;: the of nusconception hus at last been ~ hon.~r group and tbe Pl2:m. pa:;?- reached in the editot ial and \Mid- Ctopian college Eng·Jish de:partment would ets. And muc~ more difficult 1 . 1 dlesex note:;\ of la::,t Tue:;day's 'f b , I . h ld d the student wete a pre-med OJ a issue. Obviously the authors of th£' of e1· a 11Ulll e1· of COUl'Ses \\' l!C \YOU e- l:'re-law. _and d~pentleu on h1:; mark• artic!t•s newr ~xper ieneet! Hell I E..J 't I' 1. t C ;-r 01 th manct th<tt the students therein do a gl'eat tor adnuttance to gt:aduate s<\huol·. 1 Wee!{ or belong to one of tlte fia· ~sue ul 01' ..•.. · · · · · · · · dluel· · '\ * * * b _ 1 ternitie:; who has done away with I quantity of reading-. The purpose of such S~n~ors at_ \:'illia~s will e ~~~·~~ i it. Assistant Issue Editors C. Gan.i:-;un \\'. llot ,t man COlll\~es would be to teach the student the art unhmJted clas:s c~ts dullng th< ,\( ,. · \.\lJdd!c ... ronsdier:; the ::,ubject I ~nd sem~ster of this yea!'. Such quite irequcntly, but witlluut mueh F. Feldma 11 of reading, with the ultimate a.im of creative treedom IS the result of an PXpPll· ]\ll<.JWkd\e uf it The whole tl cut •t· Th h '1 h d t t J.l mental effort to· increase the t e- ment was a otillboJ n conception, \\TI lllg'. e p 1 OSOp Y epar 111EOn COU u sponsibility of the s-tudents, and slightly filled with gleanings fwrn * * Under .present economic condi- tions in lhe United States, the city man mu:;t :;pend $1,105 to Jltll chase what he could have bought in 1932 lot· anly $1,000. .Figures show that th~ tarmer must now ::;pend $1,220 m ordet· to buy aH many goods a~ h<> 1'or·merly paid $1,QOO for. Never- lhele, B, both c0111pulations ate off- ~et by a slight incre<We in annual inrome. * :!: It ~~ understood thut the decidive victory of the Labat· Party in the \\'a vet tr ce elections in England, \\ hite being a warning as· to the ef- ft•ct of the Indian rcfor m que:otion, will not modify the pffort.~ af the ~LlcDonahl govetnnwnt to 111ake lib<' I a! :tdju . ..:tmPnt~ in the adtnmi+ tration of Indian affairs. Tlw Fon•ign l'oliC'y A.:;:;odution i,;:;u~d a live-hundred l'\gc 1 epo1t to the government in which it em- vlmt ically opvo:;ed United Stated advice in Cuban activities. It is r umo!cd in \V,,;hington that tht! Uurah te~olutian to authorize '\' Senate inve>tigatio:l of the reli- g-iou,; persecution in Mexico will die. * * M\-nY obscl'\'<'I'S cannot belieYe th,rt GenPral Johnson left the large loop-hole in article 7a of the NHA hy arciclPnt. Now labor has seen the effect:.; of this wea.kness and i:; demandin~ that ~omethmg Le done about it. Ilesult: The President has de~1gned a temporaty truce with labor. and proabably the \mistake\ will be smoothed out. join forces l.Jy offering a COLU'S€ in the art of may becor.le permanent. The plan \The At my Uoy,; at W\st Point,\ ot . ] . k' L. l . h ld 1 _ will only wotk succes:;fully if both a :;imilm !Joolt, >'en:-e of the lfl00's. 1 :C 1 =============~~ c1·eat1ve t llll ·mg. 1tt e times ou ve spent :;tudent:; and faculty are willin\ to H I \ 1dden under· a heavy veneet· of QllO Y ADlS.! in teaching· the fundamentals of grammar-, be fair in their relations with each sarcasm, the main point of the col- The Grab Bag other. It is essential that a PI ofes- umnist was appnrently that the At tht• tinw of thi~ \\'l'iting- four ~tudenb which should have been learned in secondars ;:==========;:=====:, pledge wa~ paddled constantly all !!;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;!J F11<iay, Ft•bt Lllit y 15, 193[, ha\'e IJUITha::;ed tickl'ts tu the Columbia pla.v- ~chools. It is within reason to expect that I I during the week, and was then im· - PUNCTILIO . mediately plunged in:.o the whirl- l'l s present;ttion of \Clari\ Lomuno\\ after- l'nion Colleg-e could take steps in that direc- pool of ftatL·tnity tradition. A quo- noon and P\'ening·. L·nion Colleg-e, <lpparently, tion and elevate the standard of writing- done ==============~• ~~\~o~n~tom Mohammed <'lo~Pd t!w OIH'~ not con~ict0l' worth~· or her <l!tention a by the ~OilS of this college. Union can well Even the best symphony m·ches- The l'ditot·:al con:;idete<l the sub- ] 't l . tl lrl f j tte , tras OCCUSiOllllll¥ ·sUb!llit tO a gUl'tit ject lllO.l' di~p3.~;,.10ila teJy, With t\•e Cll!llpany that ha--' n•ceiH•d L'nthusinstic 111<1 H' 1 ~ 0 \' 11 Pace lll H' W()l' 0 e · 1 ~· conductor. It gives the rE'gular 1o~- :<ame mi>eont\P]Ition. A \'il'id w01d ]H'aise from leading ~ew York critics, the~t- _ . .. ~~~~~ic:n~a~ 0 °:~P!~:eo~~~~~~; 1 , ;! f~~uge_,~;m~~·llh~~~~:'u i~n·~a:;;~~e~ tr·ical nutp;nzine~. and the London stage itself. nave engaged the tempora1y ser·v- Upper cla:;smen with a sadbtic 'fl j' t · t t SANS RESERVATIONS ictJs of that vetetan ex-columnist g!I'nt 1\n the1· 1· eye~ ~tan·' a·ottn·' te campus JH'P er:-; o 1gnon~ a rom])e en ., ~ u • u. and ~rstwh1le pt·oprietot· of \Eas:~o They ate \L'nmerciful.\ They are production of the fir.~t Amet·ican light ope1·a The decision of the Student Council to pay on the Eye.;;,\ who was one of th£ not \rPspectful college men,\ but I J E d , 1 f tl T C '] k first of his tribe to retire under thl ttiends of the wm st ,;ort. The im- to le pre::;ente to a 'Ul\upettll aU ICIICL'. 110 Ollg\el' 01' 1e e!'l·ace OUllCl eys provision\ of the Concordy Column igmatJve edttor think:s of the Span· Itathe1· than spend a p1·ofitable evening, should boost the stock of the Student Coun- 1sts' Old Age Pension Act. Let th< 1oh Inquisition and calls the initia- l ..J · l ·1 · I f h d b d I · h . umpire announce the gladsome tid tion cet emony an \orgy\. B.ood the v-alue of which may l'€W i]~· SlJI'E:'<lll !be j C1 lll t 1e eyes 0 t e stU etlt 0 Y Wl!C It ing::;: \lgnotuti now :buttin~o: f01 ;tream::; ever 3 whc>te, and :;eep;; o\'l'l. a whole lift•tinw, { 1 nion :students choose I'epresents. The sentiment of the campus Punctilio!\ * through the shoes of the C'olumn- to waste a way t \\'O hours \Vatching· a med i- has been against Student Council payment of ooo That noise you heard the othe1 18 ~iwn· i>< , 1 uite a bit of differ<' nee ocre cinema wllir:h will be dead in their· minds these kess since the campaign was started in evening during the first Ichabod bctwePn th~ hon.;Pplay of informal Spencer Lecture ever to be devoted mitiation and the ><erious business the next 1110l'llillg-. They will flee instntctive The Concordiensis a short while ag·o. Had to the alluring sc;ence of Geolog~ of actua.!Jy tal\in~ the pledge into t•ntertainment for the lurict attmctions of :1 the Student Council voted otherwise, the was just the Reverend Ichaboo the fidt<'mity. Of course, the edi- Spencer, D. D., of the Class of 1822. Loria! confuses the titual of the flicke!'illg\ film. fidelity Of that gTOU]) WOUld haVe been seri- in whose memmy the lchabod Spen ce1emony with the ::;pOI.idic pall· I I I II e< t II ,. 1 · ·1 d cer Lectur-es in Psychology wen- dling- of the three or four day:; p 1 e- s it lCCause t lC \ ome ,-,wee ome OUS Y l111pe1'1 e.· given, turning ovet· in. his gwv~' ceding the fonnal initiation. ln<li\ tt·aclition lw:-; been :so incP.~santly drummer: We feel that a mistaken conce])tion has * criminate and u:oele:'s beating ts to 1 d th · d t th 000 The Hale Club is unlike ncar!~ be deplored. Last yeat a Conc01 d:y i11lo theit• l'ill:; that ::;tudenli; fem· even •. 1m·ere over e campus m rt\gar o ·e 11 h h · 1 · ·culumnist '\I<Jt\, '\TI1·\ CuJ!lJJU.· a t e ot er :ooc1a · organ1zatwns o1. \ ~ ~ taste of John Ilowarct Payne's achievement'; Student Council for several months. Those the campm. in having no keys, no teputalion or a fraternity varies in group pictures, no permanent offi- inver-He mtio to tho amount of pad- Then they Rhould be informed that \Cial'i\ who have attacked the system of nomin- cers, no treasury to speak of; but dling done.\ I agree with that is much more than a rendering- of one sing-It cttions for the Student Co\lncil have given it did have a few traditions, until whoieheartedly. recently, One was dynamited at the The worst fault in the whole cdi- Wilg' of which we all may be tii·ed. Let them Lhe impressioii that they feel the council to Christmas dinner; and another was toriai appeaJH to me to be the falfie discover before the Columbia players have l>e representative of the fratel'nities and not torpedoed by a guest-conductor in sophistication. the assumed :;upet- a neighboring column who forgot, iotity, and the ludicrous seriousness left f01· a mol'e appreciative audience that the student body and its .several extra-curri- or never knew, that at Hale Club of the !a:;t paragraph. \It i~ time \Clal'i\ .1.~ a rollicking light O[)CI'H with ju~t. culm· intei·ests. Now that the Student Coun- meetings \no reporteJs are present.\ to put away childish things.\ is thP ., * * tone of it. The :;upreme conceit of the vivacity to plen:;e a college p:ath ering. cil is no long-er g·oing to pay for the Terrace ooo Speaking of traditions, the an- th.e immature college student malws If th t f t . 1 t t d . tl • C 'l 1 \t h ld 1, I t nual hockey loss to Hamilton came him contemptuous of things he but e cos o a IC <e s an s 111 .Je wa~, ounci <eys, 1 s ou 'ue c ear o everyone recently tos:,ed aside. At lea~t . .,. 1 ·ve down this year to one goal in the ~ .., we mig-ht point out that few students SUI'- concerned that the student body is well rep- last five seconds. Some day the jinx the fraternities a chance! If we I I d · 1 th 1' t d b f h t · d. d is going to be caught napping; but have to he young, let us g10w up vive a sing-e wee {en w1tnout . e expenc 1- resen e , y a gToup o ones , unpreJU ICe take it from us, the first hundred sanely! ture of more than the dollm· necessary to men. years are going to be the toughest' John C. Davis '37. ... Kindling- r:::·ept.: The Geiman Club, wm·king vcty lJUietly has now produced :,omc> very beautiful di- ploma\ from a certain Delta Phi Alpha. 01 igin unknown. Always first to l'lamp down on deadwood, the chief can now loose hi~ inves- tigat 01 s upon the latest of theoe \G 1eek lel tt•r·:-; in the Garnet·· pro- ductions. Why :oo silent. my ftans't Let's heat· what you'r·e up to. * * * ... Every other issue seems to con- tain info on the double meaning- to be attached t\ thP title'< display- ed on theatre signs. Now the man- dgement of these theatres are a ~mm t bunch of hoys, alway~ quick to gmb free publicity, and its about time some people mw the light. Unintentional, this might br funny but when it gets to be a planned habit ptl'lty fruity, pretty fruity. * * * ... Due to a little erosion on the mimeogruphed sheet which lhe Dean's office send~ out to inform all and sundry of what may go on in chapel, we're getting econom- ists and ero;;ioniHts s01 t of mixy- mixy. Like a surprise pac-kage, you nevet· !;now what you're going to get--or how. The Dean's office should washout for this sort of thing. ... Among the thoroughly useless customs on the campus' is that of inviting the faculty members in- dividually to all flaternity dances. Why it cannot becomfl an accepted rule that any member of the faculty i:; automatically invited, yea urged to come to any open dance, is be- yond us. The net result is that busy college men address some fif- teen hundred invitations fot• dance weekends, an asinine and useless system. GEEBEE see \Clari\. llow much more valuable an ex- The Terrace Council will lose no :prestige change is this than the more usual one in by the move. It will remain a purely honor- which a similm· sum is spent upon rleeting; ary society and backed by the tradition revels. which has been built up during its quarter 000 \Union Economics P10fessor Holds 30-Hour vVeek Naive Fallacy\ -the fallacy consisting in the sup- position that anyone could get as much as 30 hours of work a weelt to do? SOPHOMORES \Ciari\ is by no means the fil'st rich century of existence. Although a local organ- opportunity that the campus has preferred to ization, it is comparable in its field to Phi ignore. An outsider might well wonder Beta Kappa in its field. In days when the whether the administl·ation is offering lee- Terrace Council was the governing organ of tures, concerts, and plays for student profit, the student body, it was reasonable for the or for the exclusive enjoyment of townspeo- students to pay for the keys. Now it is pie. Evening· after evening- the Memorial purely an organization, (a closed corporation Chapel is crowded with citizens of Schenec- at that) to which the colleg'e authodties de- tady who have braved rain or cold to appre- vote a certain amount of time for an impres- ciate a well-known and wm-thwhile speaker ~ive ceremony. The students have no voice or musician. Student ushers are often the in rega1·d to the personnel of the Terrace only representatives of the undergTaduate Council, and hence could not reasonably be body in the hall. expected to :pay fo1· its awal'dS. * • * 000 After reading about the recent \purge\ in the ranlts of the AAA, one wonders· whether it's hardly safe for prominent New Dealers to lecture as far away from ·washing- ton as Schenectady? * * II: 000 Two-sentence X-ray portrait of the heal't of journalism (from Her- bert Gorman's recent novel \Suzy\ J: \All newspapet• writers have old- young faces. They know too much on insufficient evidence. * * * 00() Don't tell us you thought that this was Punctilio-omitting the la..st three syllables J IGNOTUS, Compl\tltion for Business Manager of \THE CONCOltDI- ENSIS\ is op('n to members of the class of 1937. There will be a meeting· TONIGHT in the Publications Office on the second f!OOI' in Silliman Hall at 7:30P.M. This competition, open to all sophomores regardless of exper- ience, offeTs tlte following advantages: 1. An opportunity to maim valuable contacts with business men. 2. Possibilities of adyancernent to positions of campus Ieader- sllip. 3. A good backgTotmd for salesmanship, an advertising career, an<l general business a<hninistration. 4. Monetary reward fo1· your se!'Vices d1noing your senior year. If you caxmot attend the meeting tonight call Wm. H. Fitzgrrald at the Delta Upsilon House. ACT NOW! Competition closes tonight. ~==========================~ ] E qt at ].; 11 v 't f I

\:byssinia a sense, of the II briefly, itor;y in with the ctic difti- 1 he!· t>n<.l sent Hal- e, appar- ;t 0f J£u- i has a vssinians. ting pee- OOJ.>S • ./\.~ ot afford ic condi- ' the city put chase tt in 193~ how that nd $1,220 goods as r. Never- ; ate eff- n annual J decisive ty in the England, to the ef- <juestion, t.~ of the to Illa!•.e ach-n1n is- >:;odalion ~e 1 cpor t eh it enr- c! States ;, gton that authorize the reli- o will die. 't believe the lnrgL' the NHA has seen ~ss and is ; Le Jone ;ident ha,; ·uce with \mistake\ II ' Get·man r has now .utiful di- Delta Phi Always dead woo<.!, his inves- of tlte:>e rnet., pro- rny ft ans '? p to_ ms to con- meaning ~~ dil'play- . the man- :·es are a •ay~ quick I its about the light. be funny a planned ~ty fruity. on on the •hich the to inform : may go g econom- of mixy- }kage, you going to n's office s sort of tly useless is that of mbers in- ty dances. 1 accepted :he faculty yea urged ace, is be- lt is that : some fif- for dance r1d useless fEE BEE 80&DI- ill be a Hall at : l.'xper- ss men. leader- CR1'1'lel', )r year. tzgprald '1'1IE CONCOR.DiENSIS, FRJ;J)AY, FEBRUARY 15, 1935 Three Dutchman Teams In ,Seven Contests This Week-end ~-------------------- Varsity Five To Play M.l. T. Today, Hamilton T,omorrow Held Opponents Scoring Down I Poor Weather May Cancel Hockey Tilt be Nash, and the other defense men wil be Davis and Brooks. Austy Fox, who has done some fine of- fensive work in the wing positions, will slazt again at the defense. Captain Bill Jenkins will b£' center and \Doc\ Orton wil'l start at wing with Bergman. Expect Stiff Battle \Vith Buff and Blue \Vho Have Won Four Out of Five Games, Averag·ing Over 45 Points a Game ~------------------------------ Tonight the varsity basketball . sw~mmerb:! To Fac.e· team will en~age in first home .ll. ~ game since the Syracuse encounter' Trinity, Conn. State over thtee weeks ago when il op- pos<'S M. I. T. here at 8 o'C'Iork. Tomon·ow afternoon the Garnet quiutet will meet Hamilton College at Clinton, N. Y. The Engineers lost their first three games of t.he season. Little k; known about them cxc.:opt th<' fact that they lost to Vermont by one point, the same ma1 gin by which Union defeated the latter. Coach Nel,; Nitchmun will prc·b- a·bly start the same linPtl'p he ha~ used all season, although there is a Hry slight possibiHty that \.:figt;s\ Rotunda will start at forward in place of Joe Milano, who is recover- ing from a heavy cold. Captain Ray McDowell will fill th<' other fat- ward berth, with Van Waldron at ct'nter and Ralph Semerad and Jack Moffett in the guard .positions The Hamilton encounl<'I, \cht'd- uled for 3 o'clock Sat m J:1y after- noon on the Buff and Blue's famed \cigar~box\ court, is the one to- ward which Coach Nitchman has been looking since the Sy1acusc fray. The upstatet·s boast an im- pressive record with five wins and one loss. During this time they have rolled up 278 points, an aver- age of better than 45 points a g·ame. They have defeated Hobatt, •10 to 30; R. P. I., 48 to 28; Bard College. 01 to 23; Rochester f>7 to :!8; and Haverford, 31 to 15. Friday night they received their first setbaclr at the hand£ of Swarthmore, 38 to 35. Captain Bill 'Weld and Tommy Pugh are the two sh3rpshooters. Pugh has a total of 95 points and Weld has 81. Pugh and ,Jones are the forwards; Weld is at C'Cnt<'l', with Shinn and Snyder in the guazd berths. The latter two ate u:;uall) good foz· 10 or 12 points a game be- tween them. Coach Weber has taught his charges the zone defense, which is admirably adapted for Hamilton's small court. The Union team, haL< 1 estricted the boundaries of thE' Alumni Gym court in practice sessions in order to get some idea of the playing conditions at Hamil- ton. It is also reported that thC' ceiling is low, making it necessary to cut down the arch on long shots. ----10---- Union, R.P.I. Frosh To Clash at Troy Garnet Yearlings Won First Meeting, 50-9; G. Smith, Podbielski Staning The Garnet freshman basketball team will cross the river tomorrow night for a return engag£'ment with the R. P. I. frosh courtmen. In the first encounter played in the Alumni Gym on January 19, the Engineers were completely baffl~d by the dazzling exhibition of pass- ing and shooting of the first year men. The Union yearling team winning 50 to 9, garnered seventeen points before their opponents were able to chalk up a marker, Tall lanky Grant Smith, center, and shifty Ted Podbielski, forward, have been the scoring power of thP team with more than a half of the total points accredited to them. These two men work well together playing a fine brand of ball on the court. Phil Duchscherer, forward, Vincent Smith and Johnny Schultz will probably compose the rest of the starting five tomorrow when the whistle blows for the initial tossup. Besides the starting five, L. Schultz, Breymaier, Spellman, Greulick, Hawkes, M<!Carthy, Doyle and Ladd will undoubtedly see ac- tion on the '87 Gym floor. R. P. I. will start approximately the same team which took the floor in the Alumni Gym in their first encounter, Fellows will be at right forward, with either Parker or Henry at the other forward berth. Ahfeld or Stolz will start at the pivot position with Ward and Gia- maiko rounding out the quintet at the guard posts. ATTENTION SENIORS Register Now for Southern. Positions Associated Teaclle:t·s' Agency Deland, Florida Eleven Tankm:en Make Two-. Day Tl'ip; Trinity Has Lost Only One Meet Eleven swimmers, manager Ed. Hutchin~. aml 8oach Bill Leonard left this mot ning fer a two day trip which will culminate tomorrow af- ter nuon when the t:nion n1e1 men nwl'l a tilt ong Tt inity College team at Ht11 tfo1d, Conn. Tonight the Garnet tankrucn will swim in Stuns, Conn. against the Connecti- t'llt Stale Co!iege team in their ,;ixth nn•et or the se.tcon. Connecticut Stute doe;:; not boast so ,.:tt·ong a team as usual but has high hopes of revealing their vic- tmy over the l!nion team lal:lt yea1. Standbh, who swam in the free ~lyle events last year ,set a new pool tecord in the 220. swimming ag<rin:;t Bob Oppenheim. The pool recot d set by !::ltandio;h was 2:30.5. Conn. State has a ;;ixty-foot .pool and this instead of tl!e customa1 y fifty-yard da;:;h, the teams will com- pete in the f01 ty-yard dash. Trinity Stl'ong Tl'inity, a college always noted fot· il:-. :;ttong ~wirntuing t·e~1n1:;, ha~ 1 much bette! outfit than the Ag- gies, having lost .but one meet- that to Amherst. The team is well Iounc.led out and C'on~i~ts of many of the members who ,:wam viC'tm- iously against tTnion last year in the Foote Pool. Especially st1 ong- m the dashes, Trinity boasts of two star:; Bu1 k(' and Hall. Both nwn have placed consistently in all meet~ to date and will fut nish first dass competition for Captain Gris- wold and Mal Griffing. Jack Moffett, left, and Ralph Se.-ueracl, right, both seniors, form one ·Of i:he g rt>.atest guarding comhinati.ons in l:niun court history_ It is. la,rgely through their efforts that IH> opponent in ten games has bN\n !Lble to score more than 32 points on Uni()ll. C()t~l Consumption During Albany CcH.i Spell Is Colossal Prints Newspaper Featm·e Sketch of Dt·. Fox Hall has been a consistent record The sagest of the sage apparently A. feature conducted by the Al- bteaker for the blue and gold team- were in no small way amiss when· bany Times-Union, entitled \'NotAl- Onderkonk, swimming in the 220- they predicted that the current ways as Others Know Them,\ re- yard free style tace last year, beat season of 1934-35 would give the Oppy in fast time and Molten re- cently published, shows a pen and peated the former's performance in· therm()meter bursting blasts of last !n_k sketch of Dr. Dix.on Ryan Fox, the 440-yatd event. Onderkonk winter. At least on a cursory ex- calling him 'The Most Popular Col- po::;se:;ses 1 emarkable speed and en- amination of the college weathet· lege President.' The Times-Union duwnce, and if eligible, will he a and c()al charts it may be assumed thorn in the sides of the distance slates that Dr. Fox \has requests men for Union. In. the backstrol{e tha.t the cold has caused the coal for personal appearances from event, the Trinity nata tors average consumption to date to almost equal nearly every state in the u. s.-Dr. about 1:57 for the 150 yards. th~ ~200000 pounds burned la\·l Union Te.am Same · · ~ \\• ; ~ ·F.ox during his 5 months as head . year during the same period. of Union College, has made 95 Union will be represented by the:· Records of mathematical calcu· same men who have participated lations show that in degree-days, a in the previous meets. Griswold techn.ical term showing the differ- and Kennedy will swim the dashes ence in the constant 'heat of 70 de- and along with Griffing and eithe1.grees that the central heating plant Maus Steams or Gal'l Faelton will; n1ust maintain in all the campus speeches in 7 differe·nt states-every speech he made was used later for newspaper editorials.\ constitutee the relay team. Emer-, buildings and fraternity houses and ·~=============~ son and Keens will journey with the variable daily temperatures. 10 the team to perform the diving ev- there is a discrepancy of only :151)' entt'<, In the breaststroke will be degree-days with last year's total of John Argersinget· and Mal Rhodes. the same date of 4750. FINEST FOODS ALWAYS The lattet- has shown vast im- provPment since the opening meet with Colgate and is expected to re- peat his first-class, performance against Rochester. Russ. Knox and Ed Moulton, swimming in the back-: sti oke and Stearns and Faelton in the ft·ee style events will complete the roster of the team. ----o--- Garnet Fencers to Encounter Colgate Team Here Tomorrow Tomon·ow aftPrnoon at 2:30 o'clock the Union intramural- inter- collegiate fencers will meet Colgate in the Alumni Gym. The match was originally scheduled to 'be played at Colgate but was changed this week. Kurt Von Forstmeyer, coach of the Garnet swordsmen, will enter Frank Champ, Bert Mor- rison, Bob Slobod, Earl Dewey a.nd Jim Righter in the foils events; Fred Feldman and Jerry Cohen in the epee bouts; Morrison and Stu Rogers in the sabt·e bouts. It will be the fourth meet of the season for the Union team. So far they have defeated Williams twice and lost to Hamilton. THE ACME BARBER SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS A PLEASURE 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS On. an average the weather bas · been just as .cold as last season. A- daily examination of thermometer- · chatts indicates that, although the lows of the two years do not com- . pare, the generally constant zero tendencies in 1935 equalize the ex- treme variations of the preceding winter, and a 50 year norm of ap- proximately 30 degrees for the · months of December, January and · February is about five degrees • warmer than the average of this yeai\. ·CHARLES' Fo::;~~Iy 'l'lle Otflclal Un!oii College Barber for the past 2~ years. Ask a:ny upper classmen, they know. 11 . operators.. Schenectady's greatest barber. COR. STATE AND DROA.DWA\Y DANCING SATURDAY and SUNDAY from 10 until c:losing No Cover - No Minimum PELOPIS RESTAURANT 438 State St. Opp. Jay St. PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. FERRY STREET Sc:henec:tCldy, N. Y. Gazette Press May Prevent Var::-;ity Sextet F'rom Pbying PoHtponed Middlebury Gmne Oncp again the GainPt hoC'l{<'Y team is in danger of .postponing anothur g:lll1L' with the ~liudlebury sextet beeuu.-e of 'bad· \\'<'ather. Yesterdtty tire f1 eAtn1an :;kaler~ wet e unable to ~ompete with the 1\.l<bany Boys' ,\cadcmy team in the Intramural Basketball Leagues Schedule play-off of the first .postponed ron· Tomorrow te~t of the cubs. The vat·.sity, how- 1:15- -Phi Delta Theta vs. Phi Gam- c\'et·, despite the t·ain and slushy rna Delta. ice, practiced dut ing the gt cater part of tlle aft.L•t·noon getting in trim for tht·il' stiff contest with the Vermonte1 B tomorrow afternoon. 2:15--Sigma Chi vs. Kappa fligma. 3:15--Dclta Upsilon >·s. Psi Upsilon. 4:15--Latnbda Chi Alpha vs. Phi Sigma Ka.ppa. Results With the aLivPnt of the second mat· king pc1 iuu new faces have ap- peared on tIre \'::J.I..,ity squad. Mac- Mun ay, Mc.Uo\'ern, antl Honan will .be the nt•w 1 Pser·ve nH·n f\t· the Dutchmen in tomorrow';; cunte:ot. Kel'l Tompkin,;, goalie for both the hockey ant\ lact u,;sc teums, will fiH th~ g~nllie'::; cage for Union in hi~ second garnP of HH· :::>ea$011. i>hil Little. who ha~ bN.>n unablP [[, play tln1 in;.; the pa:st two week~ because uf a wrenched knee sus- t.tirPJ in tlw ~1. I. T. ft·aeas, mny ;tan tornot row, nlthouglt Rob Warner will be lt•ady to play in the Delta Phi 31, Alpha Phi Delta 16. Alpha Delta Phi 32, Psi Upsilon 6. Delta. Upsilon 2, Neutrals 0. Forfeit. · defense position. Hugo 'Bergman, another regular who guf.fered an injury in the Hamilton game last Saturday, wil :;urcly :;tart tomorrow, JEWELRY-WATCHES Schenectady VVatch Hospital EXPERT WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING All Work Done on Premises at HECKMAN'S JEWELRY STORE Swelt, Wetiton, and Phinney, thP 1 :;corers for MiddlebUly against Cnion in the first ;.:ame, will prob- l·bly start in the forward positions I for their teams. In the cage will <103 St.nte St., Schenectady, N. Y. The Telephone e~can take it!\ Your teleph.one must work. 24 hours a day. It must he immnne to icy blasts of the frozen north -dry huming heat of the desert-heavy, humid atmosphere of swamp lands. And it is. For Westet·n E1ectric-manufacturing unit of the Bell System-sees to it that telephones, switchboards and cable are prepared for life any- where. Tht·ou~;h long expet·ience and rigorous testing, telephone engineers :have learned how to make apparatus which is not adversely affected by the whims of climate. Through pioneet-ing and producing such improved apparatus, Western Electric contrihu tes to the year 'round reliability of your Bell Telephone service. BELL TELEPHONE Why. not. relephone. ho·me one night eo.c:h . . ' · w~ek? Bargain ~at~s after 8:10 P. M.~: re- . VeM the chor.ges if youdoiks :C,greel •'- <. SYSTtiM

Four Smith Dance Group Por~tra.ys Emotions College Contpany Dan(les I•'or Expression, Not To Please Audience By RALPH COllEN The few fortunate Union students in the auJ!ence that enthusiastic- ally received the Smith College Da:nce Group Tuesday night feel amply rewarded for casting off their hard boiled collegiate he-man attitude, and have become ardent missionarie.,; of the dance. For the majur pan of the audi- <'nce at tht• Mont Pleasant High ~t~huol tht• lJitgtnal dalh'P:-> \\l'H, ti l't 1 \'t'laHon. l.Jtanta, lllll:iiL' and pot'll'Y art• fumlli:tt tu mo~t. but the danc·e, rarely :-L•cn, l'l'qt:ll ~:::; u mucl1 mm e nmt ure ami lluu·;muttvc t:ndt•! ,t:tnt!ing, Thi' mHit'L't.llltl ing the ~nuth dant-l'I:i wen· wbl,• tl' in,!Jll c. Tho\! who ha,l H'c'n tht' Hallet Husse last :year nti~~ed lht• pdvh and technit(Ue tlutl t lw rn oft•:<.'illll:J: dancer:; shovved. But a,; Mt~s Edith Burnett, direl'tres::; of the gt oup, explained, the gi r!s Wt't e dan.::in!,; for the pleasure of expr,e,,;ing them- selves, not for the pn t1cul.:r pur- pm;e of pleasin·g an audience. Nevertheless, tht•y did give the aud!t~nce much ple\ \· and n.uch to think a•bout. The ptogram was gl\'Cll ,..p(c•tHlid llllt't!l'd,dtoll, \\ ith. ~pll~htly lJh:•ginatitJil and ·vut and t•xc·t>lll'nt }.ant·<·tlld~t· Tht_• ~::oup d~tncP-1 Wt''H'\ n~o..;t JH'pulal', pt'Jilap:~ lh'Catl.:-P tt: • t:la>.· !IJIIVt·itH\nt:-- htni gt·t':ttt•l' ftdl't' 111 l•tl'.t·:~lll;.! t;,t• UatH't'r.~· ldl':\\. 1 ~· 1 tlt nt :111-! t·\X- perience of ttw ~u!o danu·t \· it• some PasP~. wus nut suffwi.·~:t to hold intPrt·:<t. Praetically no St't'nPt')' w,ts used but a blue cyc-!m,ama. and tile ac- companinH·nt V\.'as at tiLlL~.., n~t 1~1ore than a \lt um-twat. :,et tile ~tagc wasadmirHbly 'C'tbytlte ~pilttand ~puntanil'ty \\ 1th \\ ludt the gitls liancetl. 'I llet<' wc•te no v.l\ldt·l·il!e dancets' paintt·d ,;miles, in the gr-oup; ont• couhl >'t'e tlll')\ Wt'!'t• tho- rou~hly enjoying tLt·m~Plv• ·'· The outstanding ::~kt.·tchv:i wt..~re tluee psycholugkal ,;tudll'~. ·It~ the Dat k.,\ \Vbiun Fug!tl no.\ and \Schizophrenia.\ Of thP>'e. the la:ot wa:o the• dtmax of (,he JH<'gtam. It';; cum!'\\\r and \\'\ danct't. ~liss r:ee Hich, indit':t!Pd thHt slH> i,; a ~uprtb actt ,.,,.;, \nth :t r.uwerful command of b\dily mu><'lllt'lll and pantomirre. A1nong tl, t~ oth<-'l ;...:t·uup ~kPtchet:. \Factorv·· E\XrrtPd 1 ht• most force. OpPning \1t h ct·nuehPd t igur·e,; go- ing thr ollgi1 t ht• ,;tand:~nliz<·d !l1U- tion,; of the uwdt>tll as,t>tniJ:y line. and with an oppu!dng, nlnttnnlPSS group of ol'er\Pers on tht• other side ,,f t~1P stag~:>. it depicted the work- c·t.s' atiC'mpts at tl'Voll, tlte11· ,;up- pre~st.m, ~tnt! fllni triumph, An- uther. •·pr .. ~~Ult.·,\ v .. ·.ts rt~Iuinbrent t•f '\'·\' of th•· Tt•<l ,;hawn tlc.nces an<! of the \l'enln!-: pnt t of \Les PI e,;!l~l':l\ uf tlw P.:d!Pt nu~~l', () Payne- (Continued from Page 1 l the show. But aftet the pla,y had made a tremendous hit with it.:; theme song, \Home. Sweet Home,\ the name John Howard Payne was emblazoned on every .billboard in London. The song sold a hundn'd thou- ~and copies in its first year, but due to the trickery of a managet·, Payne received none of the royal- ties. Pa:,•ne wt·ote little aftt•r that. for his nature, ~ubject to vatyin~ moods, did not permit it. Getting old and fat, he eould no longer play Hamlet, and he lost his inter- E-st in the stage. Finally he ·became consul general at Tunisia in Africa, and died there. Nevertheleos. I'ayne was lovPd and honored all over the world, and when a fund was started after hi:; death to raise a statue to him, it was over su·bscri·bed many time::; by those who had he!ird and sun~ hi.s \Home Sweet Home.\ Tickets for the production may be reserved at the Union College News Bureau, or hy calling 4-7698, Tickets for the matinee are priced at fifty and seventy-five cents, and for the -·eu:ening performance all seat.s will one dollar. MILK SO RICH YOU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Produced Under Strict La.boratory Control For Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 General .Ice Cream Corp. Young Authors- (Continurd from Page 1 l THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1935 Choir-- ed in book form. It is surprising, was sufficient reason for Mr. Pound but ,same of the predictions I ven- to get up from his. comfortable posi- tured to make then about this coun- tion on the divan in Dr. Waldron's try':> economic and social structure pl'ivMe office which the college au- are receiving mm·e consideration thorities permitted him to use dur- (Continued from Page 1) \One of tne gt eate~l difficulties now than then-for instance, educa- ing his bUsiness in Schenectady, two of these are the company that in free-lance wt iting is in finding tion for lei:>ure. Since then I have and declare the interview at an end. •will perform here, under the direc- publisher.,; who accept any given published a,bout twelve or thirteen Mr. Pound wlll return to the cam- tion of .their rector, tutor and musi- <tylc of writing. For thi:o purpose,\ books and about sixty articles in pus about March 10 to complete his cal director. and here Mr. Po~md paused to light the Atlantic Monthly. Perhaps the work on the arlide about the re- knaben. Institution. Every year the ,singers are invited to sing -with the entire Vienna State Opera and the Vienna. Philharmonic Orchestra. The average age of the company is twelve years. Glee Club to Present Joint Concet·t and Dance in Albany a cigarette, \the profession of liter- book in which the students of this search clivision of the General Elec- When their voices change, an in- ar·y agent was created. The agents college would be mo:>t interested is tric Company. evitable event, the choir boys a,re help would-be aut11ors and vctera:n a colonial biog'raphy- entitled 'John- assigned to duties about the house, , writem to place their manuscripts son of the ,:,VIohawks.' ---o--- , .and are maintained for three yea•rs, For the first time in several years in the hand:o of magazines and pub- 'C]ai·.i'- .and future employment secured for the enUre Glee Club will present a lishers who specialize in the auth- Rp,.;Jwnsible for Language them. concert and dance in Albany. To- or's particular styiL• of writing. On \Johnson practically ran all the (Continued from Page l) Admired the Worl<l Over morrow night at 8:15 the club to- the other huml it is difficult for a Indian affairs of this country for .. . . - . · green writer to contact a good liter- several decades before the sianing Clans servants, especmlly Vespma C_rowned nea.ds ,and p!estd~nts of gether with the Garnet Goblins, the :try agent for thc> put po:<e of plac- of the Declaration of Independence. and Jocosa, played by Mi~s Keller n~twns ~~ve. mv1ted an~ hstened String Quartet and the Vocal' Quar- ing hi::; mantbl'ript in tht• hand\ of He wa::; supt·eme UH regards Indian and M~·· ~umphrey, who :OVtth pe.a~- W:tth a?mna;.r?n to th~se little song- tet will present a concert and· dance the proper pullli,he 1 ·.. , ff .. f· th Atl t' 0 t ant w1t Joke about thetr commg buds tn th.,H charmmg costumes, sponsored )>y the Monday Musical , ' · a mr~ to~l e _an . 1 : cean ° marriage and sin a liJtino- songs. white wigs and curly chignons. Re- Club at the Albany Law Schoo·l. The \\or•Itlly Athit•t• l'llnt wantt•d the Gtcat Lakes and Hom the St. . \\ o . cently, His Holiness, Popb Pius XI .Garnet Goblins will play for the , . , L.twn•nr•• to the Tt•nu?ssce Rivets, . ~he music of the ':llelodrama 18 1 called fo1 them. and after their pel~ dance following the concet·t. ,\,;lH'•l abt.t:: h- .,, .. n t'XPt'tl\IH<'~ H.nl tt not been for tht\ \teut man~~pnghtly and channmg, and the f · tl V t th .n Wllllll\4', th ~ •;uri'! ,,,. n. ,.tx f••t•t 1 •fur whom Ft John\on two mile>l famous \Home Sweet Home\ char- otnl~n~e tn 1 \ h a !Cant t~y w~r~ The program will include three tall. Wtth l.Ju ·h,; l:.u., tu•nlng g•a:, I we,t uf Am,te~·dam and' Johnstown aetetizes some of its greatest ap- awa\ 1 ~· , a ~~~~ me~t e;, tm~~ta groups of ::;ong::; by the Glee Club l~lOV<' .. p.1rk ling I lu•· ,., <'~. npent•d a 1 ~ na 11 wct 1; the pe~ple 0 ! this coun- peal. Its action is replete with ~j,~c ~~ 11 J 1 ~~eet el:;k~u:~~~el>;~o voi~~~~ several selections by the String h1, v~ .. t and ,.ettletl b.~t·h. \nd batd ·I tl y might now be Hpeakmg Flench 1 :>erenades to everybody m the ca::;t . . d'. .. ' o . ~ua1 let and novelty numbers by '\\'h•n I r,,,r l~<,;a11 w ;t.nc. 1 •·n 1 • 1 tltt•t thanEnglhli. Hewasa valu- and a final triumphant chotus of lnpata rse. the Vocal Quartet. Theconcertwill deaVOI't'd to l'i'''' nd\'t•·•· to tlt~• wo•l<li ahlt• nidt• to the Briti\h dut·ing thE>: \Welcome Home\ shows the vir- Haydn, ~chubert, Mozart and, end by singing col:lege songs·. Im- and ,uun h.tt.l '\'''tllll••!:•ted a ~m'-'11 1 Seven Yeu.t,s' \Vur and King i tuou::; Clad :;uraJuudeu by her par- other. tllu~tn.o~s conJpo,;t'os ll'l'ein·d, nJt•diately f,,Jlowing the ·dance will ,·oll<'t'l'<tlll of , t'J''''t'\\ ,.,lips. \\'ht:n: 1 ic·oq;,·s War. He maintn·ined good I ent.,;, her servant;,;, and the lovable mustcal t·rammg from the Saenger- ,;t~~t and~~st until one. fin.dly I tnli::•·-1 th.:t t.•; nt·ig~L·n~ i will !J,•{ween th~ King':> ,Juyul sub-~ Dul>e. l<'PtPc<'lllPd all tilt• J•h,.l,_,.,, u! htc- I jt•d,; :~nd the ::;ix ltoquois tribes. Students may re:;crve ticket:; in b..twe<>n astw.:omy anu F.t'ology ., . . I advance tomorrow rnor.ning at the dnd began to w.tt<' ·;bout thl'!ll rny I It tnay seem ,;utpnsmg to those II N B , 8'11' VISIT THE ENLARGED TAP ROOM · ' ·I 1· 1· tl f th h' ·t , f 1 co ege ews ureau 1n 1· 1man . · . . this city but Schenectady was for !\; • 01 PUJ c ase em n e o. ,nlil'i<'\ Wt'IP a•·,···ptPd. I I\ 10 'now It e 0 ' e 1 '\ ·or~ 0 I H·ll · · 11 th t th b '{ GOLo•s \I began wnttng, a ~,,,,., of artt- u 1 any y~ars 1 he frontier town of off1ce tomor:ro:;v af:ternoon and eve-! clcs for the Atlantic Monthly about 1 thi. 1 , t'tude ... ldcd Mt• Pound 1 mng. Adnuss1on m the aftetnoon 1 SCMEHECT:ADY'S POPULAR RENDEZVOUS fourteen yt>ats ago. Pntit lt>d 'The s u 1 ' ac · · will be 50 and 75 cents, and $1 in i Iron Man' which were later publb:;h- The approach of the dinner hour the evening. -so fitr aJ~ we k1zoul to6acco zvas. ji1:s·t used a6out 400 yca:r~,,~t,go>.•· ,, .. >- . .............. ·.:··-·.·······.•,••.••\'•' _throughout the years what one thing has given so much pleasure .. so much satisfaction Early Colonial planters shipped hundreds of pounds of tobacco to England in return for goods and supplies. @ 19~5. LIGGllTl' .c. :MYJ!RS 'CollACCO Co, They came looking for gold •.. but they found tobacco • .. and tobacco has been like gold ever since! The tobacco raised in Virginia and exchanged for goods helped the struggling colonists to get a foothold when they came to America. Later on, it 'vas tobacco that helped to clothe and feed \Washington's brave army at Valley Forge. Today it is tobacco that helps-more than any other commodity raised in this country-to pay the expense of running our Government. In the fiscal yem· 1933-34 the Federal Gm•emnwnt collected $4~5,000,000 from the tax on tobacco. Most of this came jrmn cigarettes- six cents tax on eve1·y package of twenty. Yes, tl1e cigarette helps a lot-and it certainly gives men and women a lot or pleasure. S molcers have several 1·easons for lildng Chesterfields. For one thing, Chesterfields are milda. For another thing, they taste better. They Satisfy. r v ( f I A s s 1: t f

year the -with the and the company t Joint Albany years present a any. To- club to- blins, the Qua:r- dance Musical hoo·l. The for the l't, three Club e String by will Im- ance will O..\lill-'•••-\•oa ........ l Dr. Emmet, • --· Religion In Honorary t tS Russia Is Fellow In Topic For Engineering 'Y' Forum Talks Today Tomorrow -··.:.•--· PRICE FIVE CENTS Vol. LVIII., No. 37 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1935 Columbia Players' Production of Clari Pleases Audiences· Fox and Waldron at Work in New Administrative ()flices 'Economy, Aim Of Good Engineering? Claims DrG Emmet Actors Succeed in Recreating Spirit of Hundred·· Year- Old Musical Drama Cast Shows Experience Seasoned Troupers Surmount Limitations of Space On Mountebanks' Stage By WILLIAM McCORD Bnthusia~tic uudicncp,; gteeted The above pictures are the fh-.st official photog1·aphs to be published of the new admi:nistrative offi&s (see a~ompanying story) wbicl1 both Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox and Dr. Charles N. Waldron have been occupying since E>.arly in January. -Pho~os llY B<lwin G. Conde, \!J3 Honorary Fellow in Engineer· ing Emphasizes Importance Of 'Proportional Thinking' Speaks to Student Body Special Talks to Electrical En- gineers Are Scheduled During His Stay the matinee and evening pe.torn:· u.nces of \Clari or the Maid o, l\tltlan\ by John llowal'd Pa~nl when that musical drama was p: e- s<=nted by the Columbia Laboratory Players Saturday. F1on1 the lise ol the curtain on the first scene to the :~~~ 1 on: 1 ~a~~~~n.a t:;:j)a~~~ie~~:~ ·Discuss Plans For ·Offices of President and Secretary M()sely to Talk On was at once a tribute to the drama s b f h w k R ]' \ • R Q and to the artistry of the actors. u .. r 0 s ' e e Refurnished From Gifts of Trustees e l~lOD Ill llSSla \TltP aim of all go•Hi c·ngin<'Pt !n;~ ts ProtHH!ly,\ ,,a;,! Dr. \'\'tlliarn Lt- t ''Y L~tnnl•·t. honorul'y ft•I 1 ·JW 111 enginee11ng uf L\nHJO C(lllL ~:t', ~tnd ctJn_.ultin~ Pflh 1 llt t·t nf tht' (i~ :-tE'I al I.--:!t·ctJ H' C'ontpany, bt·fut 1' th! :- tu- ·!t·nt .... (Jf L'tlion Cul1t·gt• at I h• :t·r·u- lat· a . .;~entbly exPr-ebe m tht• :\lt•m- orial Chapel this morning. \To do and produce the things which at P needed in the best possible mannpr· and with the least waste of time, money and effort. \While the layman may often be inclined to think that most engi- neering is good and efficient, in reality most of it is rather bad, and only workabll' at all because it is mere t·epetition of what has been done often before. If an engineer aims at usefulne:;s and success, he must always keep the dollars in sight. 1t is a great mistake to sup- pose that engineering is only a matter of lcar·ning, because there is so much more required than re- corded knowledge. In the ability of the Playe1·s to bridge thus the years from 1823, when \Clari\ was fir~t produced, to 1935, and to recreate the spirit ot the drama, lies the succes~ of their ventme. It is their expressed pur- pose to present early American plays \as though they were ftom the manuscript of a living author,\ and to make \no attempt to bur- lesque the m.anners, customs, 01 speech of former times.\ Visitors From Prep Schools Will Tour Campus, Live In Fraternities The t•cnovating and redecorating of the pt esiden t's and secretary's offices in the Administration build- , ing, provided for ·by gift of $1,400 Plans for a sub-freshman week- ·from Mr. and Mrs. \Valter C. end to be held Match 22, 23, and 24 Baker and Mr. Frank Bailey, have were discussed in a recent meeting been completed. The secretary's 100m has been entirely 1 edone, with of rushing committee chair men from the various fratetnities and a a mahogany desk and ta:ble, new brown 1 ug, and several .pictures of tentative program was drawn up in- histoica.l seenes atound Schenec- cluding exhibits in several fields of tady. hind the president's desk. On the desk is a unique lamp desi~·ned by Mrs. Frances Nichols to represent a section of an {)]d cylindrical lantern of the Paul Revere type, pierced in anelaborate design of concentric circles. An old English ink-well, containing a working drawer, and a ·blotter pad decorated with large pewtet· corner pieces oc- C'Upy the desk. All the furnishings are of the Ame1ican Queen Anne style and were made to order under the di· rection of Mrs. Nichols, whose Glebe House on East Fifty-Seventh street in New York City has at· tracted much attention among lovers of American and English antiques. Cream-colored draw curtains decorate the windows which contain the seals of twelve Eur·opean colleges. Artifical light 1s furnished by six tot chicrcH speci- ~lly ma.de from pewtet·, and by fow table and ~tandard lamps of pewter. itun and carthwart', ea.·h with a pal chmcnt shade bound with garnet leather. To Contl·ast New Official Ra- tio!Ullist Doctrines With ()rihodox. Christianity Dr. Philip E. Mosely, instructor in hist<Oty, will speak tomorrow evening at. 8:00 o'clock to the Y. M. C. A. Forum, on \Religion and Eth- ics in Soviet Russia\ in the third of a ser.ies of discussions, in the Old Chapel. Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox and Dr-. John L. C\1arch Wl're the first sp.eakers in the series. Each talk is followed by an open dis- ~ussion .. RPquirC>s 'Proportional Thlnldng' \Commercial success in mattet s of engineering in our modem life calls for constant improvement. If we stand still, we soon fail lo make money and our opportunities fade away. To make improvemt>nts re- quires Imagination, the building of mental pictures and a comparison of physical possibilities, cost8 and results, which I have always railed 'proportional thinking.' Showed Wide Experience On the contrary, the cast of this production gave clear evidence of their experience with this and sim- ilar plays. Even the inconvenience5 of the Mountebanks Theatre were not sufficiently great to mar the perfmmance. By t11e end of the matinee, the Players had completdy mastered the difficult art of chang- ing costumes and scenery in a re- stricted space, and had learned to step over the trap-door hinges on the stage. The audience wa'S, for the most part, too engrossed in the play to be conscious of these dif- Nculties. Perhaps the greatest enjoyment of many of the persons who at- tended the pel'formances lay in the discovery of the famous \Home Sweet Home\ as a part of a musical drama rather than as an integral part of the repet·toire at family singing fests. Miss Hopper, in the role of Clari, has a voice well suited for the rendering of this song. Her pel formance, throughout the play, was an admirable example of the sincerity that characterized the pro- duction. Portraying a simple maiden who, surprismgly, \is not lost,\ she avoided the danger of ·burlesque and endowed her patt with life. Mr. Harold Clausen, as Rolamo, Clari's father, provided a moment of dramatic intensity in the last scene of tbe play that could no.t have failed to impress his audience. Extravagance of emotional expres- sion detracted little from the high pitch of this scene. -;tudy and visits to the General The office of the president, Electric Company. According to the present schedule, formerly the faculty room, was the visitors will begin their tour of altered for its present use since it the campus the aftet\lloon of March was not large enough to accom- d odate large groups. The pews 22 by inspecting exhibits prepare along the sides have been removed, by the fields of English, social studies, biology, physics, chemistry, and the bacl{ panel taised to the and geology. Tenni::. practice will height of the ceiling. Reflecting be held in the gymnasium through- gold, gt·een, and red irom theit soft out the afternoon. leathel' ·bindings, appt'oximatel:~- 'l'lle sub-fre:;hmen will be divid.:d l,OOO boolts fill a long bookcase into small groups which will move whieh Pxtends aPross the baclt, be- from one exhibit t(} another ever~ twenty minutes. At 6.30 they will be conducted to various fraternil) houses tor dinner. Saturday morning the visitors will be invited to attend classes and consult with members of the admin· istration and faculty. At 10 o'clock they will attend daily assembly in the Memorial Chapel. After lunch- eon which will be served at 12:30 in fraternity houses, they will be entertained by the General Electric Company with a special demonstra- tion in the House of Magic. The fraternities will serve dinner at 6:30. The Mountebanks have promised Lo reserve seats for th'il .sub-fresh- men for the presentation of Ibsen's \Ghosts\ which will be presented at 8:30. Rev. Archibald Black will speak at Sunday chapel after which the guests will return to the fraternities for dinner at 12 o'elock and thence home. Fraternities have been. urged to submit lists of boys to be in-vited to Frederic Wyatt, a.ssistant to the secretary. Students to Aid State In Milk Consumption Survey A group of students will begin a milk survey today for the New Ym·k State Department of Agri- culture and Marl,ets. Twenty stu· dents will call at representative Schenectady homes between now and March 9 to ascertain the in- fotmation which the State believes will be helpful to its department of agriculture in increasing milk con- sumption. The Union C<JIIege stu- dent employment bureau, assisted by the Schenectady Municipal Re- search Bureau, has mapped out key blocks in the city f01· the stu- dents who are employed under FERA grants. Allan Heyer Jackson, Class of 1886, WasFormerly Vice-PresidentofG.E. The five students who will captain the squads for the survey are James V. Marotta ':36, George W. Kremzier '3'5, Robert Symoncls '38, William Goff '36, and John Finch '35. Miss Frances Travis of the director of the student employ- ment ·bureau announced t()day. Each captain will be assigned with- in the next few days four or five other students who will work under him on the survey. By March 9, twenty students expect to reach 1,000 families. Editor's Note: This is one of sent to Cleveland at the request a series of artieles on the lives of Mr. Hindell Parsons, generai of the trustees of Union College. counsel to General Electric, to as- sist in the formation of the Nation- · Allan Heyer Jackson was born a! Electric Lamp Association. in Schenectady June 23, 1864, He In 1902 Mr. Jackson became at- received his second~ry education at tached to the Law Department of the Union Classical Institute and the General Electric Company, and entered Union in the cla.ss of 1886. nine years later, he became counsel Mr. Jackson was one of the :most to the company. Upon the death of popular men in his cla.ss and In his Mr. Parsons, Mr. Jackson was made Senior year was elected Grand Mar- head of the Law Department. shal by his fellow students. He was In 1922 he was appointed Vice- a member of the :Kappa Alpha Fra- President and General Counsel of ternity. General Electric, which position he After graduating with high bon- occupied until his retirement from ors he entered the Albany Law active ·business affairs in 1929. School and left that institution in :Mr. Jackson has been vice-chair- 1888 with the degree of L. L. B. man of the Schenectady Home He then entered the law office of Mortgage Advisory Board, and is at his father, Judge Samue·l W. Jack- present a director of the Schenec- · son; and. remained with him until tady Tt·ust C9mpany. In 1933 he 1902, except for three years spent was elected a director e>f the Scbe- with the law fir1ll of Chartier, Max- nectady Hotel ComP'any, who are well, and Philips in New Yorlt City. the operators of the Hotel Van In 1900 Mr. Jackson bad his first Curler. Mr. Jacltson is a member contact wlth General Electric af- of the Un:iversity Club in New York, faira previous to his actual entry and of the Moha-wk and Mohawlt into the company when he was· Golf Clubs in Sch.~nectady. CALENDAR Tonight 7:30-Physics Club meeting, Physi~:s Laboratory. 7:45-Frencll Club meeting, Sil- liman Hall. 8:00-Hale Club meeting, Chi Psi Lodge. Tomorrow Daily Assembly-·Speaker, Guy Graves' jr., '36, \Govern- ment.\ 3:30-Giee Club rehearsal, Hanna Hall. 8:00-Y. M. C. A. Forum, Dr. Philip Mosely, \Religion and Ethics in Soviet Russia.\ Thurs<lo.y Daily Assembly-speaker, Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox. 4:00-College 0 rc he s tr a re- hearsal, Hanna Hall. Friday Daily Assembly-Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. When inter viewed yesterday, Dr. Fox observed that the college owes a great debt to Mr. and Mrs. Ba.ll:er and to Mr. and Mm. Bailey not onl;- for funds supplied for renovation and furnishing, but for h1gh stand- ards of taste which they insisted upon in its execution. Dt·. Mosely engaged in his tot ical reseatc h in the Soviet Union from 1930 to 1932, as twlder of the A C. Cooliqg;e Fellowship from Hat vard. His close contact with Russian circles and his llavels in Europ~an Rus:::.ia enable him to speak with rnuc h concrete knowledge of life under the Soviet regime. In 1932- L933 he was assistant in Russian History at Harvard; in the summer of 1931 he lectured on Russian His- tory at. \\'estern reserve University Summer School. He is the author e>f •·Russian Diplomacy and the Openitl.g of the Eabtern Question In 1S3S. and 1839\. \The making of imvi ovcmrn ls is not so common as many pco!Jlt• might think, and a wry small pr a- portion of the human tace i8 ~vcr concerned in the brin;;ing about of a change or improvement. Mo~t people are constitutionally averse to change, and the effort to resist change and to seek pretrxts for avoiding it is that which has the large following. \Those who have visited the of- fice have remarked upon its charm and dignity and no one yet has spoken of a finer executive office among American colleges,\ he con- \For these reason:;;, all good stu- dents should try to be thinl,ers and should try to connect in their minds all the consequences and possibil- Tomorrow's lecture will deal with ities of everything they Jearn. the ~ontrast between the traditional Or\hQ(iox. Chistianity of the Rus- \For a like reason, men who may sian people and the ne:w official ra- be good thinkers should try hard tionallst and materialist faith. It to learn. Their memories for arbi- ----o will describe in detail the present trary figures and formulae may be G . Cl b F • II J · 'paradoxical situation in Russia, and slow and inept, but they can ab- cluded. erman U orma y OinS its .eff-ect on religious and inte!lec- sorb ideas and the reasons, and if N t . 1 H S · t they do so, they may bring away a 10na · onol'RI\Y · OCie Y tu11l life. The attitude of the party- from their schools more than do member, worker, intellectual and their facile associates.\ The German club formally affili- peasa~t tQ~ards this central p;ob- ated itself with the n·ational honor- lem Wl!ll be Illustrated. The vanous This afternoon at 2:30 Dr. Em- ary fraternity, Delta Phi Alpha, at Russian sect,.and their J?lace in the met spoke before a group of engi- its regular meeting last week. ne;v o:rder, v11ll be descrtbed. neering students in which address he showed how engineering is done, With the reading of the ritual of· IJn!Ute the case in Western Eu- ?Y organiz~tions and stressing that initiation by the president, Richard rope a:.nd Anle·rica, :political and re- mvenlioJl-is always personal and E. Passenger '37,. C~apter B~t.a ligious l()yalty have been indentified also emphasizing the importance of Theta: of that orgamzation came m.- in Russia. .As in mediaeval Europe, leadership. In the line of invention to e;astence, fo.mteen students· be- alleg!:::=.nce is to a faith, father than he said that- .<~11 great men are ex- commg charter members. to a :political group. perimenters. \ The club advisor, Kurt von Forst- -----------------=---------------- meyer, of the field of modern lang- uages and Dr. Orin J. Farrell of the field of mathematics were awarded honorary memberships for their in- terest in the German club in the. past. Tidmarsh Lauded by Albany Paper For Tireless Effort in Field of Music The meeting, devoted entir'ely to the installation, was conducted in ·Unic:m's ever-present and dynamic a style as nearly approaching that mtLslc::al director, Dr. Elmer A. Tid- of the fraternities at German uni- ma.rsh, nceived plaudits for his versities as was possi!ble. The usual talent. and industry in a recent \Deutschland Uber Alles~· was the· issue of the Knickerbocker Press. starting point for a regular song- Dr. Tidtnal·sh was lauded by the fest of German student songs rang- Press for his indefatigable efforts ing from \Alte Burs~:henehrlichkeit\ to pe-rmeate all those with whom to the frequently heard \Bier Hier,\ he co-mes in contact with the doc- which was representative of the trines of culture as ex:.pressed in the evening's spirit of celebration. unjve 1sal language of music. In The Union Chapter is: the twenty- addition to his Sunday afternoon fourth in a united chain covering orga~ recitals, his Friday assembly' the east and south of the United progr-ams and weekly rehearsals of States. the ~lee Club he conducts and re- The members of the chapter in- hears.<Js the Albany Community elude Robert :Sain '35; Willia.:rn Ch.olr, the Schubert Club of Sche- Kline '3S; John Donahue '36; James necta.dy, tlle Troy Vocal Society, Kimball '36; Walter Rose, Fay Eute:E'jle Club of Poughkeepsie and Begor, William Doney, Rich11rd the Mendelssohn Club of :Kingston. Hotaling, Stuart Eisenberg, Robert .A veritable Hercules in the per- Giennon, and Richard Pas,senger, form::<:~nce o·f his multitudinous all of the class of 1937; and Philip dtxtl~s. Dr. Tidmarsh spends his buchscherer, Russell Trudell, and su.nir::ners at Fountainbleau and Casimir Lewandowski of the fresh- Paris studying under such widely- man class, ltnol\i7n men as Widor, Guilmant and Dupre. In addition to the great organists of France Dr. Tid- marsh has also come in close con- tact with Percy Grainger and the famous Courboin through the schol- arships at the Chicago Summer School of Music. His first year at Fountainbleau earned for him its highest award, the excutant's diploma. . Hi~ philosophy of musieal expres· s10n 1s most aptly and concisely re- vealed in the concluding paragraph of the article. \It Is evident to the most casual type of ob.server that Dr. Tidmarsh has an over whelm- ing love for the thing he is doing at any given moment. Coupled with this st1·iking ability to inspire others with his own enthusiasm and his superior talents as both teacher and musician, his intelllgence and unusual gifts have conspired to carve for him a prominent niche in the cultural life in the Capital Dis- trict.\ i.

Two ~itnsis \ Ca1tsa Persa Parol! Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 MEMBER ~sodated ~olkgiat~ '~ih~!iS __. 1934 <~ro\k;i;:IDmr.!)t 1935,.. MADISOif YASCOHSIN Soh> nncl Ex.·lll><ive Xntionnl A1lverli\iug Repre- ~entati\'t:, :--:aLtoHal Ac.l\.·erth-ing 8ervi{'e, Inc., 11 \Vest ·l~ucl St., N. Y. C., 400 No. Michigan Ave., Chicago, llliuuls. The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, exce11t during Christmas and spring recetises. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., TeleiJhone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Unio11 College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief Chi l'si Ludge-4-Gj~7 Joseph A. Woolman .......... Managing Editor Kappa Xu l!uuse-1·7331 William H. Fitzgerald ...... Business Manager Delt\- Upsilon llou;;e--4-7U22 Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor Ka·Jlpa :--:u lluu\'•-4-7331 Thornton \V. \Vhipple ..... Circulation Manager Chl 1'~1 Ludgc--l-G:.:!7 ASSOCIATE EDITORS John D. Anderson Albert H. Stevenson Robert C. North Vanvechten Trumbull Wallace '1'. Foote --------------------- M. Bedell S. R. Cohen F. Feldman W. Ferguson Sophomore Board Assistant Editors F. Gage C. Garrison G. Haskell W. Horstmann R. Passenger R. Snyder N. Stewart l!Ssue Editor ......•. VanVechten Trumbull Assistant Issue Editors R. Passenger N. Stewart Tuesday, Februru-y 19, 1935 SIMON PURE ATHLETICS The profoundly frank expt·ession of the issue between subsidized college athletic teams and strictly amateur college athletics published in the current issue of the Alumni :Monthly, has caught our eye a11d made us realize that all of this counb·y has not yet been tainted with the acute fever of profes- sionalism in athletics. Union can well point with pride to the cleanliness of her sports. Naturally when college athletics are men- tioned, the first thought that comes to mind is football. Recently a fm· western university newspaper urged the abandonment of any pretence to amateurism and asked that the university freely admit subsidized athletics. How much more sane that plea would have been if it had urged the abandonment of any form of subsidy, which is admittedly preva- lent in many of the colleges and universities of the United States. The lethargy of professionalism has been injurious to the true meaning of 'sport' in bas.eball, prize fighting and wrestling. Foot- ball, too, has suffered from professionalism behind closed doors. Professional tennis is in the process of ruining the intel'est there once was in the sport when it was :played for the game's sake. Every college in the wot·ld is considered a center of learning and wisdom. It is beyond the comp1·ehension of the normal mind to see wherein lies the justification of breaking down the tradition of game for the game's sake by the crude trespassing of dollars and cents. GIVE THEM A SPORTING CRANCE The exhi,bitions of poor sportsmanship and bad manners on the part of those few, but vociferous students who have been sitting in the center of the cheering section at the last two home basketball games have reached an ultimate point. Making loud noises and caus- ing commotions in the stands while visiting players are making foul shots is certainly not conducive to good .sportsmanship; nor is that recently adopted offensive practice of counting out the score in loud tones in the middle of the game a measure of one's g·en- tlemanliness. It seems too bad that the college cheering THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1935 section as a whole has to bear the blame caused by a few inconsiderate students nmk- ing nuisances of themselves, for unf0rtun- ately cheering sections are judged by the noisiest fans. This does not mean that en- [ Farrago J MUSIC . thusiasm should die out, nor does it mean that applause should not be given where it is due, but when enthusiasm carrie.s us to the point of jeers instead of chee1~s, i:t is time we checked up on ourselves. There are few men on most visiting teams and even fewer fans supporting them. Give these players a .sp01ting chance and ,let them know when they leave that Union not only has a superior basketball tea1n, but also has an \A-1\ cheering section from tlte point of With this week's message we wiH introduce the custom ef quoting or·igina:l ,bright sayings of the lads at the head .of the room behind the desk. Loud lip-bazoops will be awarded individual·ly for all quirps that ave printed, so try your damn- est. Identity of speakers will be furnished on request. This week the following quotes are found to be worthy of mention: \J.t is har·d in our day of ballyhoo and baloney to pick your way through this maze of applesauce.\ (In correcting spelling) \There is no 'eve' in naive, though Eve was naive.\ More next time. . view of g-ood sportsmanship and gentlemanly one friend ~f ~m~ has an inter- behavior. · esting story. Through no fault of his own, he found himself this Chris'tmas, in an orchestra chair PREP SCHOOL VISI'l'ORS For the second successive year the college · will set aside a weekend in :March for the entertainment of students from various pre~ paratory schools who are considering· enter- ino- Union next fall. Plans are already under b way to provide the visito1·s 'vi th a. typical cross-section of college life. They will have the opportunity to attend classes if they wish to, and to confer with members of the fac- . ulty. Special exhibits of the work which is being done in the various fields of study will be arranged for their inspection. They will attend the daily assembly exercises with the rest of the student body and see the 1Iountebanks' production of Ibsen's \Ghosts.\ 1\Iost important from the visitors' stand- point will be their impression of college life g-ained from personal contacts with students in the fratemity houses where they -will live during- their stay on the campus. The atmos- phel·e of the fraternities will largely deter- mine the sub-freshman's reaction to Union. The su-b-freshman week-end should not be regal'ded as a pt·eliminary rushing- period. If used for this pU11JOSe the week-end will do more harm than good, both to the fraterni- ties and to the college. Exposing the inno- cent guests to some fraternal salesmanship when they have not yet registered for Union muy give them a high opinion of themselves but will not flatter the fraten1ity or the col- lege. Fraternities can cooperate now to help make the week-end a success by suggesting· names of prep school boys who may be inter- ested in Union. These names should be turn- ed in to Frederic Wyatt in the Secmtary's office as soon as possible so that the admin- istration can contact the principals and head- masters of the schools which they attend. Last year the sub-freshme11 week-end at- tracted over one hundred guests to the col- lege. With the active help of the fraternities the affair next month can be equally as popular. LOWER THE PRICE The small number of students among the meagre audience at the two performances of the Columbia Laboratory's presentation of \Clari\ Satm·day would seem to indicate a difficulty in bringing such presentations to Union. This difficulty is not, as many have sug- g-ested, lack of publicity for both The Con- cordiensis and the local newspapers carried advance stories on \Clari\ for mme than a week before its arrival. Nor does the diffi- culty lie in the fact that most undergrad- uates are not interested in drama, for the support given to Mountebanks productions by the student body would belie .this. The real difficulty lies in the price c:hru·ged for tickets to these outside performances. True, they are the same pric.e as the Mo1mtebanks' plays, but there are many students who would pay a dollar to see a play put on by a campus organization who would not feel themselves called upon or justifiably able to pay the same price for a presentation by an outside group. A reduction of twenty-five percent from the present price of tickets for plays of .such organizations as the Columbia La;borato·ry Group woul dassure future ].)resentations a larger and more appreciative audience than that which attended \·Clari.\ wa:tching Eva strut her stuff in L'Aiglon. Besides disliking the theatre in which the play was pro- duced, our friend Oet us, call him Aller, for short) dislikes Rostand generally and L' Aiglon in particular. To add to his discomforture, Miss Barrymore, whom he can usually at least stomach, appeared on the stag·e that particular evening ineb- riated to the gills. She swayed and could barely speak her lines. To make the situation still more severe, Mr. AHer found himself surrounded by a typical tank-town audience watching every gesture of the Famous Star with bated breath. Here was real art with a capital \A.\ Finally the last act rolled 'round, and Aller, who wanted to get out, was in a pitiable state. His collar was moist, he was thirsty, and he was very much bored. Eva began dying. Ten minutes later Eva was flat on. her back and the death rattle was fading out, but some- thing happened! Drama! Slowly she revived, p ractica!Jy pulling off the Lazarus stunt, and then went ahead and died all over again- twice over. After L'Aiglon had been half an hour a'dying, Shal,e- speare forced himself out of Aller's lips in a louder voice than he had Middlesex Notes Charles James, apartment house landlord, believed that when Mr. and Mrs. Alfonso Holland, tenants, promised to have no more children, they should have kept their word. He so contended when the Hol- lands had him up in court for hav- ing seized Mrs. Holland by the hair and smashed the family perambu- lator, two weelis after Mrs. Holland gave birth to her second child. \I warned them to clpar out,\ he said. He was acquitted; the Hollands were ordered to pay the costs-and clear out. That is the capitalist way of do- ing things. In Communist Russia it's quite different. The head of educational broadcasting for the Soviet Union was severely repri- manded for a humorous skit re- cently broadcast at Moscow. An artist, taking the dual role of a child and its mother, poked fun in her dialogue at the use made of children here by their parents to obtain preferential treatment on tramways and bt·eadlines. Adults with children may enter either door of a trolley, but the general public may use only the rear one. \Son the mother said, \don't you want to take a nice tramway ride?\ \No!\ he replied in tears. \I'm tired of riding trollies. I've ridden a dozen times today-with grandpa, with uncle, with auntie. And,\ this with considerable force, \I don't want to stand in breadlines either.\ The artist concluded with a funny remark that everybody ought to have children because they're so useful. When the authorities heard it, they were surprised and pained. ''Counter-revolution, they mutter- ed. Other things were said about \politically irresponsible people\ who were running the nation's radio. * * * Mr. John C. Davis has indicated in a letter to the Concordiensis that we are a base tool of Mr. Hatha- way's. We assure him that it is not so. There are just some things that thinking people cannot stand, and barbarous fraternity initiations are one of them, True, we have never experienced an initiation, although I am sure that our editor has. But what information we obtained was not from the \Rover Boys\ but from fraternity men themselves. Also, we do not see why a quotation from Mohammed should disqualify us. In defense of the editorhtl col- umns, we might say that a college man is no longer considered to be awfully immature when he gets into school. A good part of the growing process should have taken place. Besides, sane thinking comes from the head and not from the posterior regions of the body. * * * Our research department has submitted to us what purports to be the \Union College Doxology.\ We reprint it here. \Prex profs and tutes whose ten- der care, We bolting, fizzling bummers share, Forgive our faults and finally, Graduate us summa cum laude. Amen.\ S. R. C. By TOI'lY SHAR.l'E intended: \Pox leave thy damnable faces, and begin.\ Everyone turned To those of you who did not take around and stared at him, disap- our advice and go to the Sunday provingly. Who can.this ignoramus· Recital we can only say, \Tch tch\ be, anyway, who doesn't recognize· -and even that is pretty weak. To real Art and Drama when he is those of you who <leliberately went privileged to meet it face to face? out of their way to avoid going just * * * because we happened to recom- mend it, we put on our heartiest Now that the Hauptmann trial is sneer and ·hiss, \We told you so\! over, .professors hold straw votes As you may remember the pro- and discover that the higher grade gram consisted entirely of organ- student thinks that Hauptmann is piano duets - Dr. Tidmarsh of guilty. So what. course at the organ,and Mr. Joseph A well known Flemington frat- Derrick, head of the Schenectady erna! organization which ran an Conservatory of Music (no ad) at excursion bus to the scene of the the piano. Mr. Derrick is a pianist crime, will now have to resort to' of no mean ability and his brilliant Jess ludicrous means of subsistance. interpretatiens were much abetted Pitiful, isn't it? (We would like to by his splendid technique. know if they had a barket· on the For pure enjoyment, we lilted bus, ot• if the whole thing was done 'Rhapsody' by Clifford Demarest in good taste). and 'Symphonic Piece' by Joseph The trial again brings to mind Clokey. The A minor theme of the that we don't like Alnerican legal Rhapsody was borrowed directly ethics. Why is it necessary to point from Schumann's Concerto in A an accusing finger within an inch .Minor for piano and orchestra but of the accused~s face, and shriek in somehow we didn't seem to mind his ear, to be a good prosecuting at- since the whole was a thriUing con- torney? We always hoped a little trast between piano and organ. that Hauptmann would find an op- We remembered Clokey as the portunity to bite Mr. Wilentz's composer o'f the Mountain Sketches linger, and teach him good .man- for organ which Dr. Tidmarsh ners, if possible. played a few Sundays ago, so that * * * we welcomed anything else by him, \Ve understand that a man, here- We were more than gratified. The tofore considered the most liberal whole is a thing of electrifying, on the campus-cme who was (pardon us Mr. Laemmele) bril- known to frown on any conven- liance and beauty, running through tiona! restriction-has now gone about every key in the scale. Espe- haywire - conservative with a cially fine was the Scherzo which is vengeance. The Bailey Hall wit marked ,'to be played with barbaric grins like the cheshire cat and says, abandon'-.Mr. Derricl,, however, in \I knew it, I knew it, I always told rehearsal remarked that he thought you so.\ that they weren't quite barbat·ic '' * \ enough-on repetition he breath- We were warned several. days ago lessly announced that that was by the editor that no more inter- quite enough. We were amazed at column feuds were to take place. the marvelous way the Fugue built All this triviality must cease. Our ·itself up rushing from tonality to readers don't approve of this kind tonality to a tremendous climax. of thing. In short, we are to be- The Franck and Guilmant num- come serious, and contemplate hers need no mention, being in that worldly matters with worldly soph- gz·eat class of music which prac- istication. Here's a toast to us, all tically spealts for itself. 'Kam- of us, though we don't see how G. menoi-Owstrow' was for those who H. et alii can possibly wipe off their thought the rest of the program friendly grin. too highbrow. Week's Best Editorial THE VOICE OF THE SMALL COLLEGE ON ATHLETI0.'3 The meeting of the National In- tercollegiate Athletic Association, held in January, is the occasion for an annual outburst of oratorical virtue. Graduate managers and educators make this a time for eloquent speeches denouncing pro- fessional practices in college ath- letics and propounding cures, the one this year being a nine-point code aimed to take the lie out of the universal profession that col- lege athletics are amateur. It is surely a curious IJhenomenon, for the reformers return home to do nothing further about it, because it requ~res much skill and courage to deal with this situation, whereas almost anybody can make a speech. Such evidence as we have, and it is not slight, leads us to believe that college athletics are more frankly professional today than they have been in the twenty-five years we have known them rather intimately. Our correspondence with schoolboys makes that clear. Vi. 7 e judge that high school coaches quite generally lead their boys to expect a college to pay for their services. The president of Washington and Jefferson announces that the players on their football team have been costing them $40,000 a year. Worcester Polytechnic informs the press that you cannot get a satis- factory team without buying play- ers; the rate, they understand, for good players is $1,000 a year; they cannot afford that, but they think it best to see what they can do on $500. And then along come the Cornell alumni complaining of the handicap to their football of such restraint as the college is placing on . .professionalism. And now we read that Harvard is out for victory via the services of a man who made his reputation coaching teams of a dubious amateur standing. Our own guess is that the will to make college athletics amateur is lacking in this country, on the part of college administrations, alumni, and the public. Their real interest lies in the money that comes from hippodroming college sport, or in the thrill of these big public spectacles, or in the publicity they hold valu8ible. Perhaps in view of all this, it is no more dishonest to speak of college teams as amateur than for a baltel' to advertise \hot Don't forget the violinists next Friday morning-Rochester Sym- phony on Wed. 4:30-5:30 over WJ'Z. Egon Petri at 10:3() p. rn. over the same station. More Rochester Symphony, same slation, 3:15 to 4:00. Secret Service Bureau Ruby George Stroebel again steps into the limelight via the primrose trail. At the final curtain of the Saturday night performance of \Clari\ he rushed down the aisle waving a bouquet like the Amer- ican flag for La Hopper. It was really touching. * .. .. The one-man orchestra of the Columbia Players gets our vote for the Hall of Fame. He .played every instrument known to man with the possible exception of the Jews harp. * .. * \The Frosh Lament\ or \0 Hell Week.\ 0 Hell Week it has come again, The saddest of the year For the cocky Frosh who must take the swats That give the Brothers cheer. * .. .. We were wondering whether the D. U. headless snowman was sym- bolic of anything, ·or whether it was just another D. U. with ket- chup where his brains ought to be. • * * Among- the headlines of the last issue. \John Howard Payne Wrote His VVay Out of Prison.\ \Home Sweet Home'' Composed While at Union.\ * * * A certain Sig Phi was an oily snake, For him life held no terrors; But after dating the Columbia player: No hits, no runs, no errors. * * * .. Philip Morris Awards for Achieve- ment. Rojy Rotunda-For his excellent work at Rochester. Bob Shreve-For a consolation prize. Phil Little-For a consistent game at defense. We still have a number of paclts that have not been called for, so if you have failed to collect yours !colt us up soon. -Es, Es, and Bee. cross :bnns.\ Surely the latter are forts by talking one way and act- not hot; and yet their purchasers, ing another. who know this, do not feel cheated. However, we gather from history We ·belong to that small minority that any reform is impossible when who feel that college sport should ·the current is running· strongly in be amateur for the sake of the boys the opposite direction, Even so, it themselves and who feel further is worthwhile to keep an idea alive that it is thoroughly bad for an in- till changing times make its adop- stitution of leaming to tolerate an tion IJOssible; and we earnestly enterprise which the undergradu- hope that a few cmleges, and ates know is dishonest. Our among them Uruon, will resist the opinion is that example rather will to athletic victory at any price. than words is the powerful influ- Then, at some future day, when this ence in moral education. We are absurd fever to make college sport not sure how much a college ean a major public entertainment has do to train boys in honorable con- run its course; we can look 'back duct; but since we profess to tra.in upon our own record With pride. them, we think we stultify our ef- . ~Union Alumni Monthly. I 0 A Rc 'l ten da~ fea Col Ro Ro thE mi del cui rm fo1 teE Va sit th< lee Tc an th ea ar pc al se JE bE lo sc gc la fe tl ti tl tc n v I '

not take Sunday tch\ To went just recom- heartiest sot!! the pro- organ- of Joseph enectady o ad) at a pianist brilliant abetted lilted Joseph of the directly in A but to mind con- as the Sketches so that him. The ctrifying, bril- through Espe- which is barbaric wever, in ethought barbaric breath- was mazed at built to ax. num- in that prac- 'Kam- hose who program ists next Sym- ver WJZ. over the 3:15 to steps primrose of the of the aisle Amer- It was of the vote for yed every with the ews harp. \0 Hell again, take cheer. the was sym- hether it with ket- to be. the last His Composed anake, rrors· Colu~bia Achieve- excellent on solation game of packs for, so if ect yours Bee. and act- history when i!l so, 1t idea alive its adop- earnestly and resist the any price. when this sport has 'back pride. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDA!'Y, FEBRUARY 19, 1935 Three Dutchman Five Adds Two :More To LOng String Of Victories Overcomes Hamilton, 31-29, AfterTrimmingM.I.T.,59M33 ~~------------------------ SPORT SLIDES Points Totals Frosh Quintet Rolled Up 206 To Opponents' 91 in Season's ~·--~----------------- Rotuada's Shot in Last Almost Doubles Score Of 'Techmen as Subs Play Almost Half of Tilt 13y MILTON A. BERGER Grant Smith, Ted Podbielski Scoi'e 49 Points More Than Opp()sing Teams Two Minutes Decides Hamilton Game With the end of the brilliant Although this may be a tough week for some of the freshmen and season of the Gamet freshman The Garnet varsity fi.ve scored its The Garnet substitutes saw al-: they may be treated as that which Williams Jenninga Bryan would call h S t 'basketball team ·last Saturday the tenth victory of t · e season a ur-. most as much action as the regu- \the lowly worm crawling in the dust,\ yet they should have some day afternoon at Clinton, N. Y., de- 1 F 'd t . U . , ._ t f 'd h h totals of the individual and team feating the highly-touted Hamilton ars ri ay ni'gh m mons sur remnan o pr1 e, ·o1· s ould we say shred of self-respect, in that t ey scores for the Union cubs run into College quintet, 31 to 29. \Jiggs\ prisingly easy defeat of M. I. T., were represented this season by a basketball team of more than ordinary the high .figures. Winning four Rotunda, hero a week before at here 59 to 33. It was the Dutch- ability. The record of the yearling five, as compiled elsewhere on this · th 1 1 f out of the five games played <lur- Rochester, agam won · e aure or men's ninth victory of the season page, reveals a team. excellent in both the offensive and defen~ive d~ the day when, with less than two ing the ~ix-week ~che<lulc, the year- minutes to play, he broke a 2 9-all The home team, on baskets by partments of the game. It speaks well for Coach Hatfield and for the lings accumulated a grand total of deadlock with a par·ticularly diffi- Ralph Semeracl and Joe Milano, ran men .individually. H be>des well for the future varsity. Should the out- 206 points while their opponents cult side-shot from underneath the 1 up a zo to 6 lead after which standing members of the frosh squad report to Coach Nels Nitchman garnered less than half that running track to sew up the game . . . t I f 1 I · d · · · d h I for the Dutchmen. Coach Nttchma·n sent m hiS subs nex year ee aoo not m ulg·ing excessively m ,pipe reams w en amount for a sum of 9 1. Joe Milano, high scorer for his Only about a quarter of the game predict that the Unie>n varsity quintet will not merely .be as good as this Grant Smith, the f.rosh team's team in both week-end games, and had elapsed. The second-stringers year's but will rank with the top-notch teams in the East. We have it lanky center, topped his mates in Van Wal'dron were largely respon- held their own and the half ended from fai.r!y authentic sources that the powers that be in the inner scoring with 8() points. He scored ~~b;eG~~~;r~t 1 ~a\~ ~~~~a~~:itt~:, with the score' 27 to 14. sanctum of Union's ath.letic department have shown enough c-onfidence 37 field goals, seven more than the · t · t th t t h d 1 'tl c·t opposing teams made all together, led by Captain Bill Weld and The starting-team returned to the m nex years prospec s on · e cour 0 sc e u e a game WI· 1 · 1 Y and held six rival centers to a Tommy Pugh, scoring aces, rallied floor at the beginning of the second College of New York. at New York. No one doubts what Na:t Holman's grand total of four points, two be- and succeeded in tying the score in 'half and proceeded to add to their boys can do. ing foul shots. Ted Podbielski was the last few minutes of pla,y. total. The subs were once more second with 60 points, 2·1 being Gamet Leads Early sent out and had little difficulty in The rapid rise of the popularity of fencing at Union in the past field goals, and 12 free throws. Van Waldron had given Union an early lead with three field goals, and Milano, who challred up 11 points for the day, kept the visitors ahead of the Buff a:nd Blue. In the second half, Ralph Semerad and Jack Moffett began peppering the basket, keeping the Garnet on the long end of the score. matching the Tech. men point for few years merits s<>m.ething more than a passing consideration. Mr. These two boys, center and forward, point. n~urt von Forstmeyer 'has devoted a lax·ge share of his time in the respectively, scored 49 points, more Milano, with 17 points, and Semerad . than did all of the teams they with 14 led the Garnet attack.. development of a gro1.1p of swordsmen good enough to compete wxth .played against. \Jiggs\ Rotunda and Captain Ray representatives o:f <liher colleges and malce a good showing. McDowell scored · 8 and 7 respec- Altltough the team was unsuccessful in winning meets last year it Otllers Who Scored tively. has benefited by the experience gained as attested to by its record The Summary tills year-tluee \Vins in four meets, the loss being at the hands of Union (59·) G F p Hamilton, one of \the outstanding teams in the East. I believe the Milano, l.f, c ........... 6 5 17 potentialities of tll.e sport at Union should be exploited. The problem Johnny Schultz, George Doyle, Phil Duchllcherer, Harold Schultz, Vincent Smith, and Charlie Mc- Carthy were ·next in order of scor- ing, while Breymaier, Ladd, Spell- man, Greulick, and Hawkes failed to taHy. ball battles seen in Schenectady in a long time, and the Raiders barely took their 20 to 19 victory. Me Naughton, the star scorer in the Northeastern New York League who now has a total of 202 points for twenty games played this sea son, was held to two points in the Mont Pleasant fracas by the Garnet cente1·. Against the Albany Boys' Acad- emy the freshman quintet did the expected once more by trouncing them 39 to 19. The final game last Saturday ended in the proverbial blaze of glory as the frosh took the count of the much-improved R. P. I. cul:!s, 50 to 30. INDIVIDUAL SCORING: GPG F T Grant Smith ....... 5 37 6 80 Ted Podbielski ...... 5 24 12 60 John Schultz ....... 5 10 1 21 George Doyle . . . . . . . 5 6 1 13 Philip Duchscherer .. 4 5 2 12 Harold Schullz ..... 4 4 0 8 Vincent Smith ...... 3 3 0 6 Charles McCarthy ... 1 3 0 6 Art Breymaier ..... 1 0 0 0 \'an Ladd .......... 1 0 0 0 Jerry Spellman ..... 3 0 0 0 Herman Greulick ... 3 0 0 0 William Hawkes .... 3 0 0 0 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . 92 22 206 TEAM SCORING: G Union Freshmen . . . . . 23 Captain Weld finally knotted the score with only a few minutes to go, and began to lead his team in a last winning rally. Union's great de- fensive playing, however, frustrated the home team's attempts for addi- tional points. Rotunda's goal broke the tie. Hamilton tried frantically to even the count in the remaining moments, but were unable to con- vert their shots. McDowell, rf .......... 2 3 7 of material is alm.ost; non-existent. Every college starts at scratch, V. Waldron, c · · · · · · · · · 1 ~ ! inasmuch as few stu!lents have bad previous training in fencing. Moffett, If · • • • • • • • • • · • • 2 0 4 But Union holds ao. enormous advantage in regard. to- eoaching. Semera-d, rg . . . . . . . . . . . 7 1 Rotunda, If ............ 4 0 8 Mr. von Forstmeyer is an expert whose px·owess on tbe stl'ips has ·Tinkle, rf .............. 0 0 0 been widely 1·ecognized. Moreover he has bad experience coaching Casey, rf · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 0 4 () here foi' the past :fouy-ears. I suggest that fencing be given another Brown, lg ............. 2 Brandow, rg . . . . . . . . . . . 1 o 2 boo-st. It has justified Director of Athletics Hal '\Vittne~s confidence, Totals ............... 25 9 59 exiJressed in fi.n!Ulcial backing, by its success. I suggest that the The Summary M.. r. T. (33) G F p student body see :fit to recommend it as a minor sport. The step is fi O'Brien, If . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 2 8 not as radical as it ma,y appear. There has been little difference in R. P. I., in the second game, was the only team to make more than ten goals or more than seven fouls during the entire season. In the opening contest with their Troy counterparts the Union frosh made the same amount of points, 50, as they did in the last game, but at the same time managed to keep the 'Tute five under ten points. \ ..... 20 ..... 7 ..... 17 23 Totals ........ .'.'.'.'.' 92 G R. P. I. Frosh . . . . . . . 3 Nott Terrace . . . . . . . . 3 Mont Pleasant 7 Albany Academy . . . . . 6 R. P. I. Frosh . . . . . . . 11 F 4 4 5 5 4 22 F 3 7 6 7 8 T 50 44 19 29 50 206 T 9 13 20 19 30 91 Garth, rf .............. 4 2 10 its status f1•om that of a minor sport, except in the matter of awru·ds. Union (31) G Milano, rf ............. 5 Trimmed N ott Terrace Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 31 McDowell, If ........... 0 Rotunda, If ............ 1 F 1 2 1 1 0 0 5 F 1 2 2 0 4 9 ~ Weppler, rf .... , ....... o o 0 It is organized; ·it luis a schedule; it has a coach; and most of all, 7 R. Smith, c ............ 1 3 5 it has a following:. 'l'lte men deserve recognition for their efforts. The second encounter with Nott Terrace was another runaway for the Dutchmen, the high school lads managing to make only 13 points to the yearlings' 44. The frosb met with more than just chamnionship ball when they played the Mont Pleasant team in the only game lost this season. The determined fighting game between the tw~ squads was one of the best basket- OUTING CLUB NOTICE Waldron, c ............ 3 Semerad, rg ........... 2 4 Demo, lg .............. 1 0 2 4 Wotzaka, lg ........... 1 0 2 31 Denton, rg ............ 3 0 6 p Totals ............... 13 7 33 Moffett, lg ............. 2 Totals ............... 13 Intramural Basketball Frosh Hoopmen Defeat R.P.L Cubs Hamilton (29) G Pugh, rf ............... 3 Stretz, If . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Weld, c ................ 5 Snyder, rg . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 7 4 12 2 4 29 Score at halftime-Union 27, M. I T. 14. Referee-Dowling. Umpire- Cassidy. Leagl.les Results Jones, lg .............. 0 Totals ............... 10 was held to one first place by the All}lta Pili Delta (16) G Connecticut mermen, the 440-yard Fiore ............... - .. - . . . 3 ----0·---- Union Swimmers Drop Two Contests free style event won by Carl Fael- Marra .............. - .. - ... 2 ten. Marotta ............ _ .. _ . . . l Martin .................... 2 Lose to Connecticut State, Trinity; Faelteu Wins Only First Places in Both Meets Trinity College administered a de- cisive licking to the Garnet swim- ming team Saturday at Middletown, Conn., winning by a 60 to 17 score. The Trinity tankmen took every first place save in the 440-yard free-style swim, which was won by Carl Faelten with Maus Stearns in second place. Onderdonk, Trinity's star all- around swimmer, broke one of the pool records in the 150-yard baclt- stroke event. Trinity won both re- lay events, the medley and the 200- yard. Tho Summaries Medley relay-Won by Trinity <Onderdonlt, Benjamin, C. Motten). Time-3:44.2 minutes. 220-yard swim-Hall and R. Mot- ten of Trinity tied for first; third, Faelton, Union. Time-2:40.6 min- utes. 50-yard dash-Won by Burke, Trinity; second, N. Fanning, Trin- ity; third, Griswold, Union. Time- 25.9 seconds. Dives-Won by Little, Trinity; second, Mixter, Trinity; third, Keens, Union. Score-72 points. Two pool and three college rec- i.'.Iarsella ....... , ... - .. - ... 0 ords were broken by the State Totals . · ... · · .... · • ·. - ... 8 swimmers. Bacon set a college and Delta Pili (31) !~ d . t 220- d b t Bloom ................. - .. . 5 pool recor 111 he yar rea:s - Imrie .............. _ ...... 4 stroke; Weigold made a new mark Randall ...............•... o in the 1()0-yard free-style race, and Nestle ..................... 0 the Connecticut 440-yard free-style Palmatier · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · 3 relay team also broke a college and Purchase · · ·\ · · · ·\ ·\ · .. • 1 Bush ...................... 1 pool record. Totals ................... 14 Besides winning the 440-yard free- * • * style event, Faelten also placed sec- Psi Upsilon (6) G ond in the 220-yard free-style to be Gane \ · · · · · .. \· ·\ \· \· · 0 Duchscherer ..... , ........ 2 the high point man for the visiting Grant ..................... 0 team. Griswold with a second and Gatchell .................. , 1 third was the next for Union. b'erguson ... · ......•....... 0 Stevenson ......... - ....... 0 Totals ...........•..•.... 3 ----o•---- Garnet Swordsmen Defeat Colgate, g .. g Union's intercollegiate-intramural fencing team, under the direction of Mr. Kurt von Forstmeyer, won its third victory- in four meets here Saturday, defeating the Colgate swordsmen, 9 to 8. Although the score had ·been decidedly in favor of Union at the end of the foil events, the Maroon team won three sabre bouts to .bring the score to 7-6 in favor of the Dutchmen Duffield of Colgate then scored a victory in the first epee bout to tie the score. .Alplta Deltn. Plti (32) G Shepherd .......... - ....... 7 Haskell ............ - .. - .. .. 4 Shields . .. . .. . .. . .. • .. • .. . . 4 Hughes ............ -,. - .... 1 C. Little .................. 0 Snyder ............ _ .. _ .... 0 Totals ................... 16 * \' * Delta Upsilon !l, :Nou.trals o. * « \' Phi Sigma. J{RllFil. (29) G Vandecar .. .. .. .. . .. .. • .. . . 1 Van Aul{en ...... , . . . . • . . . . 0 Neumann .................. 4 Maloney ................... 3 Hull ................. , ..... 2 Totals ................... 10 Lambda ('lti Allllta (20) G Adams .................... 1 .Canale .................... 2 Randall ................... 5 &gius ..................... 1 Sezymbrowski .. . .. .. . .. . .. 0 Theurer ................... o ·rotals ................... 9 * * * Psi Upsilon (25) G Gane ....................... 3 Duscherer .. . . . . .. • .. . . .. .. 3 Gro.nt ............ - ........ 1 ]' 0 0 0 0 0 0 F 2 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 F 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Grant Smith Tallies 12 Field Goals as Engin~rs Offer Improved Opposition p 6 4 2 The freshman ·basketball team 4 officially closed its 1934-35 season 1 ~ Saturday in a fitting manner, hand- P ing the R. P. I. yearling aggrega- 12 tion its second defeat at the hands 8 of the Garnet cubs this year, 50-30. g th;~~o~~:d~;s a\::~~ ;~£~. ~~~:~~ 2 ing center, who scored 12 field goals 3 to lead both teams in points made 31 with 24. Ted Podbielski also proved P himself a scoring threat by tossing 0 in five double declrers and three 4 fouls for 13 points as he did in the 0 first encounter. 2 0 0 6 p 14 8 8 2 0 0 32 ---o-~ Union (50) G Podbielski, rf . . . . . . . . . . 5 Doyle, If ............... 1 Duscherer . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Smith, c ............... 12 J. Schultz, rg .......... 4 H. Schultz, lg .......... 0 McCarthy ............. 1 Totals ............... 23 p 13 3 0 24 8 0 2 50 p R. P. I. (30) G Forfeit. Fellows, rf . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 ~ Murphy, If . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 F 3 1 0 0 0 0 0 4 F 3 0 1 0 1 3 8 13 F 4 0 0 0 3 7 F 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 F 0 0 0 0 Ohfeld ..........•...... 1 8 Stotz, c .. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 6 Ward, rg ..........•... 2 9 Mastrianni, lg . . . . . . . . . 0 z; Totals ............... 11 2 4 12 2 0 0 20 Gatchell ................... 2 Ferguson .................. 2 Stevenson .. , .... , ......... 1 Totals ................... 12 Delta Upsilon (0) U Dean ...................... (} Goff ....................... 0 P Fenton .................... 0 6 Bedell .... , ................ 0 6 Braun ..................... 0 2 Totals ....... , ......... , . 0 0 0 1 1 ]<' 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 3 0 5 3 30 4 4 3 25 p 0 0 0 0 0 0 440-yard swim-Won by Faelten, Union; second. Stearns, Union; third, Paddon, Trinity. Time-5:56 minutes. 150-yard ba-ckstroke-Won by On- derdonk, Trinity; second, Hill, Trin- ity; third, Moulton, Union. Time- 1 :51.7 mins. (new college record). Fred Feldman and Jerry Cohen, Union's two sophomore epeemen, each scored a win in the following bouts, howeve1·, to give their· team the meet. Tlte summaries: Foils: Turnbull (C) defeated Slo- bod, 5-4; Hague (C) defeated Dewey, 5-4; Champ (U) defeated Wallrer, 5-3; Slobod (U) defeated Hague, 5-4; Champ (TJ) defeated Turnbull, 5-3; Walker (C) defeated Sheldon, 5-2, Righter (U) defeated Walker, 5-2; Righter (U) defeated Glad- stone, 5-0, Morrison (U) defeated Hague, 5-3. MINHAM'S ANNOUNCES Dollar Day Specials 200-yard breast stroke-Won by Benjamin, Trinity; second, Sinclair, Trinity; third, Rhoades, Union. Time-2:58.9 minutes. 100-yard dash-Won by Motten, Trinity; second, Griswold, Union; third, Kennedy, Union. Time-1 minute. 200-yard relay-Won by Trinity (Angus, Motten, C. Burke, Hall). Time-1:43.8 minutes. Lose to Conn. State, 55-22 The Union tankmen were defeat- ed Friday night by Connecticut State College by a: 55 to 22 score in the victor's pool. In their first away meet of the season, the Union team Sabres: Rogers (U) defeated Well- man, 5-4; Stevenson (G) defeated Morrison, 5-4; Stevenson (C) de- feated Rogers, 5-3; Wellman (C) de- feated Morrison, 5-3. Epees: Duffield (C) Cohen, 2-1; Feldman (U) Litale, 2-1; Cohen (U) Rice, 2-0; Duffield (C) Feldman, 2-1. defeated defeated defeated defeated \'f11esday February 15, 1935 Shh-ia $1.00 4 prs. Hose , • .. .. . .. . .. $1.00 Gloves ...•..• , . . ... , . . . $1.00 Neckties, 2 fo:~· .. , • . . • . • $1.00 Sweaters . .. . .. . .. . .. . . • $1.00 Scarfs (silk and woolen} $1.00 Suspenders, ~prs. for .. $1.00 Underwear-Slrlrts and Shorts, 4 f(H' • .. • • .. • • $1.00 Suede Jaclcets . . . . . . . . . $4.95 Minimum Prices af Minham's 179 Jay St. Phone 4·2544 There will be a meeting of the executive committee of the Outing Club tomorrow evening at 7:30 in room 113, middle section, South Col- lege it was announced this morn- ing by Walter Williams '35, chair- man. Gaz~tte Press UNION COLLEGE BOOK STORE Room •s• Administration Building College Seal Jewelry Fountain Pens Pennants Leather Goods OUR NEW LINE CIGARETTES and SMOKING TOBACCO Hom·s-8:45 • 12:00, 1:15 • 5:00 ·. l '. ,. ... ' i ~ i ~ I' I' ,, I ! '

.. . ;.: '• Four Glee Club Sings At Albany Law School singing, and the entire glee club winds up in a glorious ending. Othel' numbers which met with approval were \The Reaper's Song\ · and \If You ·want to Go to Union\ Novelty Skits Presented Ey led by Thornton w. Whipple '35. 'Whipple, Brown, Wells, Also included on the program And Jennings was a novelty skit, in which four The Glee Club presented an en- te!'taining program of college and concert songs at the Albany Law School Auditorium on Saturday night before an enthusiastic audi- ence of about three hundred music lovers. The concert was followed by a dance to the music of .the Gar- net Goblins. A dramatic representation of \Maiden Fair. 0 Deign t0 Teii'', presented for the first tinu by the singers, was cheerfully received. The song portrays a young Romeo (represented by the tenor ~ection) se!'imading his loved one in a bal- cony above. Added effect is given by the tenors who focus their eyes upon one girl in the balcony. Soon the irate father (represented by the basses) becomes aware of the woo- members of the club, Whipple, Homer T. Jennings, Th0mas Brown '35 and R01Jert Wells '36, assisted .by Harvey Groesbeck, '35, partici- pated. Between two of the groups Fretl Alexander '38 sang several solo numbers, while the string quartet played Handel's \Bourre\ between the fir:ot and second groups. The glee club will devote the next two weeks toward rehearsals for it~ f0rthcoming trip on !\1arch 1 and 2 to Elmira and mnghamton, and the following week to New York and Pittsburg, to compete in the latter city in the Eastern Di.vi- ,.;ionnl Inlercollegiute Glee Club Concert-Fe::;tival, a:o the r·epresenta- tiYe of New York State against six other college glee clubs. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1935 V • Ch • t accurately the most complicated · Ienna · Ofl S e r S chora:l harmonies frem the chrom- ASI\: RETURN OF POSTERS To Sing in Concert at~iigibility to membership in the The Smith Ce!![ege .Alumna:e Com- choir is subject to strict standards mittee have been unexpectedly: which have .been adhered to since charged for tho photographs used The Singing Boys of Vienna will the founding of the group over on the posters advertising the a.ppear in Memorial Chapel under four hundred years. At a recent S . h ·' Th '11 election when three places in the . nut uance .group. ey WI the auspices of the Union College choir were vacant, more than slx greatly appreciate having these' Concert Course on Monday evening hundred boys clamored for admit- photographs returned as soon as February 25 at 8:30. Famed tance. Applicants must not only possible to the News B\l!reau. throughout the musical society of show marked vocal and musical Europe for their guileless presence abilities, but must manifest high and their bell-like, boyish voices, .standards of cha1acter. When the ' they will present a repertoire that voices of the boys in the Saenger- includes arias and choruses of knaben .begin to g·row husky with Wagner, Schubert, and Mozart, se- . oncoming adolescence, they are lections from operatic works, na- transfered from the choir to dif- tional ch0ruses and Christmas ferent musical activities, but their songs. means of living is secure for three Formerly ED'S CHARLES' The Official Union College Barber : for the past 2~ years. Ask any upper classmen, they know. 11 operators. Schenectady\s greatest · barbe~ · COR. STATE A.ND BROADWAY Established in 1498 by a decree .of years thereafter. the Empet·or Maximilian, t ht.> ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;g Vienna Choir Boys, !mown in their i: own country as the Wiener Saen- gerl{naben, once had as members such child prodigies as Mozart, Schubert, and Haydn. Every one of the twenty ·boys who ate on their thil d American tour is a fin- ished musician, capable of .singing Mil'k Cream Butter Eggs Cloverland Crea:mery Beauty lines! .Every bot~ tie of Higgins' American Drawing Ink is full of them -free-flowing,. brilliant, predse and colorful-try a set. 16 Waterproof Colors, Waterproof and General Blacks. CHAS. M. HIGGINS a CO., Inc. 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. HIGGINS' ing. The father demands that tile ViSDT THE ENLARGED TAP ROOM Phone 2-4265 American young nuisance cease his cater- wauling. The basses look upon the G Q L Q 1 $ tenors with firm faces and clench- · · 1 C DRAWING 1 N KS <'d fi~b•. In ~pite of the prol<'ngrd ce . ream Cot\\.!llge ·C'hees . K s ~~ 0 ~r~~~::~::_s~~ 1 ~i_:s~~~~.:~:n~a~bd~e~r-th:~~on~Pt~~n~r~~~:_:~~· ~}~;:::_~~~ ~=:::::::::S::C::H::::::::N::E::C:=T::A::D:::Y::'S:=P::O:::P::U::· ::L::A::R.=:R::E::N:=D::E::Z::V::O:::U_·=:_S::_::._::_::_=:_;;;~_:: . .::~-~ ~::;;;;;:;:::_::.~-~-·=·-=~:=::_::_::_::_::_;;;. -~. ;;;;;;_:_::_::~_::_::::\:.:= __ ::_;;; __ :=_:=I:::I:Jl=:::::::=· :::::=_::~_e::_~-~- ------------- CENTER LEAVE When you need an excuse to stay a little longer •.•• LEAVES I give you the mildest smoke, the best- tasting smoke. You wonder what makes me different. I'll tell you. It's center leaves. I spurn the little, sticky, top leaves ••• so to the taste. I scorn the coarse bottom leaves, so harsh and unappetizing. I am care- ful of yoar friendship, for I am made only of the mild, fragrant, expensive center leaves • Copyright 1985, Tho Amerlcnn Tobacco Company. r l I L v G ( I

bot~ American ,. brilliant, and a CO., Inc. N. Y. INS' tS • aaoa••••••e\ Vienna Choir Boys To Sin~ ~n Chapel Monday • 1 ··-······· Vol. LVIJH., No. 38 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1935 PRICE FIVE CENTS Vienna Choir Boys ·To Sing in Chapel On American Tour Debaters to Meet Hoha.Tt, · Charisters Who Will Bttffalo Girls, Hamilton, Two Professors Interviewed On Supreme Court Decision Give Concert Monday Eve11irtg While on Third Trip 'f() This Country --~ Populax in Europe Acclaimed in Many C'oun\1:ies On the Continent Fot.· Unique Programs -.:--- 'l'h€ del;:Jating team will partici- • pate in three debates Sunday .and Monday. Charles H. Reeves '21 and Richard C. Snyder •a7· will travel' to • Buffalo and Geneva for engage- ments with Buffalo University and Hobart College while Carl ·E. Olson '36. and Seymour Horowitz '55 will meet the Hamilton College debaters · Monday evening at 11 p. m.. in a · .broadcast over station WGY. 'rhe topic of debate with H:am- ilton will be \Resolved that tbe sev- ·eral states should adopt a po1iey of compulsory employment in.su1·ance.\ \Jnion will uphold the negative of this argument. The judges· fot· the debate will be E. Lawrence Springer, headmaster of the Troy Cou.ntry T\'o MembHs of Concordiensis Staff Interview Cum- mins and Bennett on Recent Decision Concerning Gold Clause Cases Involves National Law Excessive Ballyhoo Sup1·eme Court Must Uphold Too Much Importance Placed Constituti()n Regardless On ·Issue by Newspapers, Of Consequence Radios, and Cinema By VAN TRUMBULL By NORMAN STEWART \The decision ol the· Supreme \Too much ballyhoo in newspaper Cuurl Ia»l 1 ueouay L; in\s UJl a vt•ry and cinema, over the radio and Monday evening in the Memorial Day School; Earl B. Zimmer, Jll'in- Chapel the famed Vienna Choir cipal of Draper High School, Sche- Boys will give a concert under the nectady.; and Bertram P. Quenelll', auspices of the Union College Con- principal of Scotia High School. cert Course. Everyone of the twenty On Sunday evening Reeves and boys, starting their third Ame.ti~atl Snyder· will take the affirmative tour, is, despite his youth, a fmtsh- against the University of Buffalo ed musician capable of singing ac- girls on the topic ''Resolved that curately the most complicated the private manufacture of orms choral •harmonies. Their long his- ;;hould be prohibited by interna- tory pre-supposes a vzgorou~ train- .tiona! agreement.\ On Monday thP ing in the trad:tions established Union debaters will travel t.o Gen· when the organization was fmmed eva where they support the nega· by lf:mporer Maximilian in 149X. tive of thi,; same argument against Many Hold Fraternities Tidmarsh S e I e c t s Initiations Singers for Trips · . . . \ . . I f10m the platform;· l>r. William W. delicate que::.twn Hl constttutzonal Bennett, professor of economics, law: How much ~hould the Supreme' explained in an interview shortly Com t be guided by the po:;sible re-1 1 ~ft.,r th~.?upt eme Court announced suits of it» actions, e!<pi'C\ially in an Its decxsron on the gold clause .. . ~ . cases, \has ea.u:;et! the general emergency? salt! Dr. Earl E. Cum· public to attach an overabundance mins, chairman of the division of of importance to the decision.\ Post-Initiation Celebrations Will He Conducted On And Off Campus Thirty Memb~rs of Glee Club Begin Intensive P.raetice For Four Concerts ;ociai studies, in a recent interview. In reality the proponents of Nor- Dl'. Cummins explained that the man C. Norman, plaintiff against ·Usual view of the Supreme Court as the Baltimoi ~ and Ohio Railway an au;;tere, remote tribunnl ''hew· for refusal to pay bonds in gold, :Hobart College. Coach Robert H. Live in Old Palace Smith and Director Frederic:k A. The hou~e of the 01 ganization, 'vVyatt plan to aceompany Reeve; known as the \Saenge1 knaben,\ is C Vienna; The group lives in the old' and Snyder to Buffalo and eneva. Hofbutg, the IrnJ..erial Palace that: o------ wa,; bunt in the eleventh century· Revi·ved I. ntet·est Au·akens and in whose chambers the nobility \ Several off- and on-campus fra- ternities will hold their initiation banquet:; tomori'ow aftetnoon and· evening, some at the respective houses and others at vmious clubs and hotels in the locality. Although a few of the fraternities have not chosen to make their plans public, .nany of them have announced theii programs for the post-1.itual cere- monies. After trying the voices of every member of the glee club during the pa,;t two weeks, Dr. Elmer A. Tid- marsh has selected the thirty stu- dents who will go on the forthcom- ing trips to Elmira,, Binghamton, New York and Pittsburgh. Inten- »ive drills will be held daily from now until March 12, which is the date of the Eastern Division Inter- · mg straight to the legal line\ re· do not desire the gold, especially in gardless of consequences, is not al· so far as the laws of the land would ways ju:,tified in momentous case' conviet them fot illegal possession ~uch as the five to four decision in of gold, but ruth\r to be renumer- which the highest judicial body up- ated for the value that the gold was held the constitutionality of the worth on the cun ent market. They contend that the government must of the Hapsburg dynasty once Inactive Track s O•C iet y lived. In airy, light-flooded rooms· over!ool1.ing the distant hills of tire Federal law invalidating all prom- ::;ubstantiate their claims for losses tses to pay in gold on private eon· incurred with the withdrawal of tracts. free transference of gold when it Wiener wald the boys pursue their The Union chapter of the Spiked No Legal PreCE'dC'nt can be shown without ~xception that no material harm or losses were sustained by the court's an- swer. musical studies, as well as their I:JCC- . Shoe society held a meeting yes- ular studies under the guidance of terday afternoon at which the local U:cademic tutors, the year atOJlllO ctapter was reorganized and• planE' except during July and A~gust formulated for a program covering when they travel to a mountazn re- the remaindet' of the year. sort in the Ty10l with their spirit- At the meeting officers for this ual guide and director, Dr. George year were elected. ''V'illiam. .Srock- !\'[any Speakers Will Attend Gruber and Reverend J. Schmtt w.ell was chosen pre 3 ident: Gilda Chi Psi will hold its banquet at Here they enjoy spar ts and fre:;h Mirate, vice-.president; and Donald the Van Cwler hotel tomonow pir, prepa 1 ing their bodies for the Hawks secretary. Professor Wil- evennig, and wili have as speaken· rigms of what often is a strenuous fot·d Ketz, track and cross-coun-try Profes:;m Eugene H. Byrne of the wintet•. coach was made .permanent treas- histm·y department at Columbia, Recently their popularity has he- urer and faculty advisor. At the the Honorahle Chatfield Bates, J. come so great in Europe that they .same lime nominations for mem- Leslie Schoolcraft, and Theodore B. were forced to concede to appear bership were held and the follow- Brown. Phi Gamma Delta will hold in public cone ex ts. Their tours were ing men were elected: Malcolm its banquet at the chapter house, enlarged to include nearly every Oriffing, Maus 'Stearns, Leahmon the spealters being Joe E. Brown of country in Eutope where the unique Nestle. and Alexander Brz;ostow-ski Albany, Vail H. Perry of s.chenec· quality of their performances were from the senior class, and ·Edward tady, and Howard Sands of Mont- unanimously acclaimed. Bastedo, Emery Burton, Cnarles clair, N. J. Theta Della Chi will Subsidiary of Court Orch.e.stra Krull. Joo:eph Milano, Leon Nagus- hold a banquet at the Mohawk Golf They were organized originally zewski, Gerr,rd Neumann, John Club, at which Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox as a subsidiary of the Vienna Couit Ross, Leon Saiewitz, and Clark will be the principal speaker. Othe1 Orchestt·a when the Emperor com- Shields of the junior class. speakers and guests will include. manded this bcdy to create and Membership was extended to men Rolland Sanford; William Love, tutor it. The organization has who have completed at least one past grand lodge; Carl Schmidt 01 grown from eight to forty members,, year of varsity traclt cornp-etition· the board of directors; Dr. Morton many of them chosen fwm JlOOI\ and earned 3 points in meets c. ·St<:Jwart; Dr. William C. Ostrom; families for their exceptional talent· Managers of varsity track and and Dr. Lawrence Hawkins. Sigma as well as their scholasti·c abilities .. cross-country are also eligible for Chi 'Will give an informal banquet Social position of patents is neither memberships whirh are no·w one Saturday afternoon at the Mohawk a recommendation nor a detriment. dollar. . Golf Club with George Anderson of the Class of 1923 as toastmaster. Former Concordy Columnist Enjoys • st>mewmaotdBanquetsatHouses St d . Av.ohaeology at Col·um J.l•a. hofJP~~ ~nei~~m~rib!~J~~fitfn v;~~ U · yzng 1 .:- • · · fJ , house tomorrow night. The Sigma · Phi fraternity also plan to have a collegiate Glee Club Concert Fes- \While I do not believe with that tival at the Schenley Hig·h School, Tammany philosopher, Mr. Dooley, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. that the ·supreme Court follows election returns,' there can be little Dr. 'ridmarsh, Thornton W. Whip- doubt that the Court was influenced pie, '35, student leader, seven se- by the possible ill effects of an ad' cond basses, eight baritones, seven ve!'se decision. The case could ·not second tenors, and eight first tenors be settled solely upon legal prece- will make the trips. The music dent. It was an emergency, similar which is to be nsed at the contest in many ways to the famous Adarn· has arrived and the members of. son Case in the spring of 1917, when the club are already feeling the a Supreme Court decision narrowly heat of competition which is to averted a railroad strike. Most au- come. This wiil be the first con- thorities conSidered the Adamson test in which the Union College glee decision very unsound legally, but club will have pa1ticipated in since· it saved the country from a crisis.\ 1932 when it competed in the New York State intercollegiate glee club Serious Disturbances concert festival and was runner-up to the songsters from the University of Rochester. The men selected are as follows: Fit·st tenors-Virgil Sager, '35; Ed- gar Moulton, '37; Bookhout; Rich- ard Hotaling, '37.; Charles Berger, '38; Thomas Brown, '35; Donald Hawkes, '35, <manager); and Carl Faelten, '37. Second tenors-EI:l- inond Gifford, '36; Duncan Cornell, '38; H. Kenwood Dye, '38; Homer T. Jenning:;, '35; Edward Carpenter, '38; James Kimball, '36; and John Dowling, '37. Baritones-Frederick Alexander, '38; w·elsh; Clarence Clark, '36; Alan VanWert, '37; Frederick Haw- ley, '38; Rankine Hinman, '35; (Continued on Page 4) \That serious disturbances would have followed an adverse ·ruling, is generally agreed,\ said Dr. Cum- mins. \Sudden action would have been necessary, and that is bad, economically speaking. As it was, the decision had a negative effect; it relieved the uncertainty which was giving the business world a bad case of nerves.\ \An amusing sidelight was Jus~ tice McReynolds' minority report. He gave an extempore speech which was unprecedented, saying, \The Constitution is gone!' But what is the constitution? It is made up of majority decisions of the Supreme Court. Whether we approve of the decisions or not, they are still the c()nstitution.\ Effect of Rever·sal \A reversed interpretation would not have had as serious an effect as is commonly believed,\ Dr. Ben- nettt added, ·•for Congress would have, and actually had drawn up; legislation tn counteract any re- 3triction of its authority to regulate the value of money. There are, however, several consequences that might evolve from a decision as Justices McReynolds and Butler ~upported. Private contraPts would 'be able to maintain control over Congress, and private concerns, as railroads whose bondage was is- sued on a gold paying basis, would be forced into bankruptcy.\ Regardless of the Constitutional and ethical interpretations the greatest benefit lies in the settle- ment of the case. No longer are people uncertain of its outcome, and the usual trend of business activity exists once more. The flurry on the stock exchange has disappeared and the inexplicable closure of the grain market is rapidly returning to its normal condition. Inflationary Practices? Whether or not the Roosevelt ad- ministrators resort to further infla- tionary practices remains to be seen. At least the Supreme Court has constitutionalized any actions in this direction. It must not be Editoi •'s Note: The folio. wi~ .. is Greek and Roman worlds, as wen·. banquet at their chapter house. • .,. d p f Their toastmaster will be Mr. R. taken from a. recent letter by Sid-: as another seminn.r ~n er r-o ~ssor ney I), Maa:Iunan '34, describing his W. L. Westermann m sorne hlst?r- S. Warner. f t . ill · graduate work at Coluznbia uni- leal problems of the Roman Emp1re The Delta Upsilon ra ermty w versity in the study of a.ncient du;ing the second and third cent- hold their initiation at the chapter : Harold J. Hinman '99 Has Had Long. And Successful Career in Politics assumed that the NRA is saved by its decision, for only the money juggling theories are upheld, Perhaps the most remarkable phase of the NIRA 'is that it can- not be declared unconstitutional. histo ...:.r o~d archaeolog· y. .It is urxes, A. D. . house and will follow it by a ban- .,. ..... d k t f quet at the Mohawk Golf Club. planned to publish more letters of \I have ha son1;e wor o<>--: c;>r The speakers will be Rev. Hemy H. this nature by younger almnnl de- a while I was a rught d~tective. m uu d 1 D D t t t M Actr'v1 'ty and well-dx\rected energy la.ter he marr1'ed Lucy Warner of scribing- graduate work ln different a. Broadway hotel. Very ~nterestmg J.I\.L r ocr., · ·• oas mas er; r. b t th t wdry work The John E. Gilmore, Robert Van seem to have been the cornerstones East Berne, N. Y. fields. · u ra er a . , • - Wormer Tiffany, Mr. James E. of the long and successful career In 1910 he was elected a member Only the agencies that carry out its policies ever will be tried in the Supreme Court. Professor Ben· nett's reply to the reporter's query upon this statement was that, since the NIRA does not set up rules which people must follow, it merely advances the(}ries, for which the Constitution guarantees all individ- uals freedom. . ; nicest part was havmg ones d1nner s 1 dney Markman was pl'ominent at nine o'clock in the morning and Finegan, Mr. E. L. La Cross, Mr. both in college and in outside life i;>f the Assembly at Albany, and as an undergraduate for his work: then rushing off to school at ten A. E. Davies, and Rev. G. George which the Honorable Harold J. Hin- from that time on until 1932 he was with the Mountebanks for four· a. m. :i: also had some carpentry Seibert. man '99, Alumni Trustee of Union, continually active in the field of years. Last year he conducted the· work. But I got a very good break has had. He was born in Albany in politics. He was in the Assembly column entitled \Ra!l~om Observa-· when Professor Hayes hired me to 1877, the son of Addison J. Hinman. until 1915. In 1913 he was Re:pub- tions\ in The Concord1ens1s. :Mark- scout out paintings and oouljlture CALENDAR Upon his graduation from the AI- lican minority leader of that body man writes: which he might use to illusw·ate the Saturday bany High School he entered Union and for the remaining two years of \I am at the graduate school of' second volu_me of his P()litical a.nd in the class of 1899. His achieve- his service was majority leader. He C t 1 H t f E h h Daily Assembly-Speaker, J. G. · ments in college were many and was chosen a rnember of the Con- Columbia. University in ancienthist- . u:l ura. 18 ory ? ur~pe w 1 !l Blunt, American Locomotive varied. He was a member of the stitutional Convention of 1915, in ory and archaeology. The work ~s still m man\:lscz;pt and ':l- 0 t qUite Company, \The Future of the · Alhp. a Delta Phi Fratet'nity, man- which convention he acted as Chair- here I fl .nd most enJ·oyable, and complete. Th1s Job. reqm:res less L t•· .. F 1 b t b d. it take OC(}IDO xve. ager of the football team in his sen- man of the Committee on ut\ire since there are no extra-curricular musdc e, u mfore rrutnl ' a.:nt th .s · Sun. day ior year, and was on the track Amendments. In the same year he activities, all my time is spent in me own so r~quen .Y o . e van- t Att the library and the Metropolitan ous art collecbons with wl::l!Cb: this 11:15--Sunday Service, Preacher, team. He was even more proficient was appointed DepuY Grney Museum which I visit at least once city abounds. Anot~er fine JOb I Dr. Reinold Niebuhr, Union . in the field of oratory and literary General by Attorney General Wood- or twi ·ce a week .. The archaeologiacl had under my cht.ef, ?rofessor · Theological Seminary. societies. He won the Junior Ora- bury, which office he filled until his Wh hi h 4 0 0 R ·t 1 D El torical Prize and. represented the election in 1918 as Associate Justice Side 0 . f my studies holds a pa.rtlc- w. esterm.an. . en . s researc _ as- : 0- rgan eCI a , r. mer t t ft h t f n 1 ac ncy A T'd h college in the inter-collegiate Ol'a- of the Supreme Court of the State ular fascination for me. I always. SIS an le · tm 0 1 n a v a · • 1 mars · torical contest, He was en the of New York. In 1932 Mr. Hinman liked to fuss with pa~nts, etc., and at Barnard he took anotller \voman Monday honor stage at commencement and· was renominated as the candidate 501 I took to matters of Greek sculp- and myself. Professor Wes.i.ermann 10:00- Student Body Meeting, won the Blatchford oratorical prize. from the third district for the Su- ture and architecture like a duck to has just completed an artiele on Old Chapel. He was Literary Editor of the '99 preme Court, but was defeated in water. In the history a new world ~lavery .for an encrclo!)e,dia of class- 8.:80 - Union College Concert Garnet, and a member of the Philo- the election. bas been opened up fGr me-Egypt, real antu~uity. pubh&hed 1 ':1 Germany. Series, Vienna Choir Boys, mathean Society. In addition to all Mr. Hl:nlnan was President of the M:e:;opotamia, Persia, etc. I became · Tbis art 1 .cle lS so. rev~ahng in new Memorial Chapel. these, he was a member of the Col- Board of Education in Albany. .At so deeply interested in EgyJ>t tl\at Information that It mil change .the · .. 11::00-Radio Debate, Union vs. lege Glee Club and the Banjo Club. present he is president of the Boa.rd I availed myself of practically every views men have held on. anment Hamilton, WGY. After graduating with the degrl'le of Trustees of the Albany Law book in English on that subject in slav~ry for m.any years. I ~rote up Tuesday of Ph. B., he entered the Albany School, Vice-President of the Al- the library. This semester p'l'oD;llses S~rVl C~esarrs and. this . lulled two d th b G' 1 A d ,_ to be ·a. ·tr.u·ly enjoyable.· one. I am. b, 1 rds with. one stone. becau,se that Daily Assembly- Spealter, Dr. Law School where he receive e · any. tr s ca emy, and Secr-e.;.,..ry th b t f t e ay J h · L M h degree of L. L. B. and was a.dmitted 1 of the Board of Governors of Union taking an advanced courS(l in (}reek 19 . e su · JeC 0 mr ~as er 9 ss ' 0 n ' arc ' to the Bar in 1901. In 1902 he ente~- University. He is a life trustee of Sculp ture, a seminar in prol::Jlems of I know that Profefssoi Wtefsfterman~ 12R:45- R21adEio Club Meeting, .. ed l'nt·o ·Jaw partnershipw1'th Melvl·n they M c· A and r'n 1\\2 was ap- Greek architecture, a survey of made some u~ o my s: II , espeCI• · · oO<m , . lectrical Engineer- . · . · · . • • • ·• · . .,.., Roman art an economic histe>ry of ally the references w!tl'()h were ing Laboratory. T. Bender, under the firm name of pointed Alumni Trustee of Ui:lion tbe Meai~i'ranean area. a.lld tbe la.rt;ely from Latin inserlptlom.\ Bender and Hinman. Four yearll Oollee;e. Night Maraudet· Pillages Delta Upsilon F1·aternity Burglars entered Delta Upsilon house Wednesday morning steal- ing over twenty dollars in change and bills in the first robbery on the campus this year. The intruder entered sometime between the hours of 2:30 and 4:00 a: m. visiting and thoroughly ex~ a.mining all the upperclassmen and freshmen studies on the second floor. Desk drawers were ran· sacked and: clothing strewn about the floor. Arising at 4 o'clock, one of the freshmen noticed a draft, and upon investigation discover(ld that the back door had been left open, and .several lights left burning on the second flaor. The .police depart- ment was imi)Jediately notified as soon as it was ascertained that the money had been taken. · '·,

., :, Two ~irnsis \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 MEMB'EF:t ~5odated !£olltgiate 1 ~1h~s5 -'> 1934 (iii,u;;)i'~~rulfiiQrof 1935 <- HADISO~ WISCOtiSIIi Sole and Exdu~ire National A•lrPrtiHing Rerlre- sentativ<', National .<\1lverti-ing SPl'\'i<·e, Inc., 11 \Vest 42nd St.. N. Y. C., 400 No. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illilwis. The official newspaper of .the. students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered ~;tnY'ovhere in the United States. Editoria1 Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief Chi P~i Luclge-4-6j27 Joseph A. Woolman .......... Managing Editor Kappa Xu lluuse-4-7331 William H. Fitzgerald., .... Business Manager llelta Ui•Silun House-4-7D22 Milton A. Berger ................ Sports Editor Kappa Xu House-4-.7331 '):'hornton W. Whipple ..... Circulation Manager Chi l'si [,oclge-4-6327 ASSOCIATE EDITORS John D. Anderson Albert H. Stevenson Robert C. North VanVechten Trumbull M. Bedell .S. R. Cohen F. Feldman W. Ferguson Wallace T. Foote Sophomore Board Assistant Editors F. Gage C. Garrison G. Haskell W. Horstmann R. Passenger R. Snyder N. Stewal't Issue Editor .....•.... Albert H. Stevenson Assistant Issue Editors W. Horstman F. Gage Friday, February 22, 1935 INFIRMARY NEEDED The contemporary purge of German measles on the campu.s bring-s to mind the old question, \When will the college author- ities take steps to provide an infirmary for the members of the undergTaduate body?\ Although German measles in itself is a prac- tically harmless disease, it is inconvenient to those who are unfortunate enough to be afflicted with the malady. Other students have been in contact with the stricken ones and themselves are in dan- ger of contracting the illness for a. period of a few days. At the latest report, cases have broken out in four fraternity houses during the month of February, thus during that time putting approximately one hund1·ed stu- dents in danger. In addition, the ill ones may have attended classes before it was definitely determined that they had German measles. It is far from inconceivable that a more serious disease could cast its spell over the campus arrd leave disastrous results. Al- though there are adequate hospital facilities in Schenectady we feel that an infirmary should be provid€d on the campus. A college- controlled 'infirmary would essentially lessen the financial drain upon the parents of the afflicted students. It is a duty ·which the college owes to its students; one that is ful- filled at other institutions. Several years ago there was sufficient agi- tation for such a move; then it was promoted by the student body. At that time the stu- dents were opposed to any increase in the student tax. Could not the Board of Trustees make adequate arrang·ements for an infirm- ary, thus protecting the health of the under- graduate body? Such a matte1· is worth serious consider- ation-we hope that some agency of the col- lege will see fit to take steps toward the establishment of an infirmary. DELTA PHI ALPHA The recent announcement that the German Club has affiliated itself with Delta Phi Alpha, national honomry fraternity for stu- dents of the German language, brings to the THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1935 campus another of the so-called honorary. t!r====::=:==================~ll societies, replacing those which were swept I THE COLLEGE WORLD ·.AROUND THE WORLD : away last ye~r. The move was consummated By FRED FELDMAN By RICHARD SNYDER '· in a very quiet, yet E;J:flficient manner. Per- t;;;;;=;;;;:;;=~==:;;;:;;;:=========;;;;;;;;;========.!.l mission had been received from college auth- There is a new story in the Ho-; club where another man and an- The King of England has often orities for this charter, and in good faith the bart Herald this week th!llt gives· other rn\!id laugh lightly and drink been severely criticlse4• in Parlia- the opinions of various membe1 s o{ lig-ht-headedly and play their parts ment, but not to the extent that chapte:t· was established. the Hobart student body and fac- in a shot t-lived amourette-every- Glaogow Lruborite John McGovern Similarly, chapters of Pi Delta Epsilon and ulty oil! the new Hobart p1an creat-:. where in civilized life the strong did so this past week in the House ed this year. The plan makes the' alone rule, the weak and petty fall. of Commons. Mr. McGovern was Pi G~:unma .Mu were founded here a nmnber first :oemeo;tel' tal.-e in an unb1oken. bitter in his accusations against the of .rears ag,·o. At the outset, the chapters fifteen weeks, with examination::;. • * * ·MacDonald govemment, which lie J ~ befol'e Christmas and a month':o va- The world of the colle;;c :;tudent >Oaid was in league with the crown were assured assets to the CampUS, for they cation .after Chri::;ttnas. One pula- is a: little :world in itself and thL in many unsati::;factory operations. would op· en new !;,ranches of learninu: in their graph m U~e story struck l~?me. : aame law holds. It n.ay ~ppear to The King was stated as being a ~ It t~ld .of a boy wh~ dullng the: be a falling from the sublime to the member of ,parisitic strata of soci- reS!)ective f.ields, Journalism and the social months time w~rked elght hou.rs a ridiculous to connect what seems to ety which was exploiting the lower day on an expenment for a course- be a td vial subject about whethet classe:o. The di·atnatic appeal was sciences. Such was the ])ret·ogative. A little ~ap~·~· And of .anoth<;r- w_h~ took a or not colleges ought to be for Phi anded with the statement that in- more than a ~·ear ago it was discovered that yea~ 13 co~rs\: 111 a s.pecial .school. Beta Ka.ppaa only, with the entetity :;tead .of celebrating the Jubilee, a durmg that tune. Neither of them and infinity of such a subject a;, black flag should be hung to both of these organizations had developed a· were by any matter o~ means fore- th.e evolutiOn of man, or the philos- mourne the dying of the laboring lackadaisical attitude and were doing no ed to do what they did. ophy of life ur tlw flight of love. e'lement. The money paid to the ,, * .. royal family was a ma.in source of more than collecting- impressive initiation • • * woe throughout this startling The paragra·ph mentioned above h fees, and giving the 'honored' ones charms was near the end of a long story.. But slill the prublem remains. Are sp~~~ 'anti-Nazi boycot·t 1 · 5 makl'ng It P b bly eems l . · ·r· t th t our college~ to be for the strong to w.ear on their watch chains. · ro a s nsignl Ican a only, .or for everybody? Do w~ itself felt in the beer industry in there are some students who want Germany. r 11 1933, England I'e- . t 1 th' •\\d t want in them only men like thosE The an.pointment of. an invest.1Q'atin2.' con1- 0 earn some mg ou.., 1 e 0 an placed Gerrnar1y as the lead·I··ng· ex- Y - ~ a· · me t the h t 1· a 01 who can talte advantage of new · ss1gn ·n Y ave <> e rn · porter of beer. Now the Brewers mittee resulted in the immediate· removal of flunk the course and get thrown plans for study, and who can work f 11 db · 11 duvlng vacation time? Or arc the Association claim that Japanese Pi Gamma l\Iu. Pi Delta Epsilon had earlier ·out 0 co ege an e soe1a Y ostra\ schools to send out into the world beer is being sold Ul!'oughout the cised and so forth. The others, who Reich cheaper .than .tl'e local manu- d . b d d d I t 1 h. t th · · men who have been educated by • IS an e · 0 comp e e on Y w a ew a:osign- facturer~ can buy empty bottles. t 11 f '11 t th · d' high pressure methods-send them ~ • men s ca or, WI ge · eir I- Japan is rapidly pushing Germany \Ve point out these facts to the Beta Theta ploma anyway. out to fight the struggle of the into third position in the exporta- Th e are defl 'n't bl n · 11 ;;;trong and the weak over and ovm chapter of Delta Phi Alpha. At the outset er l e pl'O e! s 1 again. tion of beer. This is significant the educational world today, how- when one realizes that the be.er in- your ideals a~·e attractive-\-'you only admit ever, that depend for their solution --- o---- dustry is one of the 'largest in Gel'- outstanding· students to your fold, and you on whethGr the colleges are going to many. go on as they have been gomg, ana Week's Best Editorial The Bolivia-Pa·raguay dispute are going to teach then1 German manners accept anyone who can pay the tu- ~eems to have been degenerated to d t d th f t . 1 iti<m, or whethel' they are going to The Freslunen Like It a point where the current loser will an cus oms, an e use o convel'Sa 1011a cut down on everybody except those · •· d th· 1 · And now comes the latest J\usti- listen to League of Nations pro- Gern1an which cannot be learned in the class- WL 10 can ° s<lme mg on. tieir own posals and the current winner 1e- r . d , initiatJ.ve. Is college to be for the fication of Hell Week activities-- fuses to consider such plans. Just l'OOm. 1\ oreove1· We have It on goo. fmth motley or for the highly intelligent \The freshmen like it.\ With a now, Paraguay thinks only of vic- that the entrance fee for each individual is only? * * ,. supezior loo!c on hls face, and ex- toz·y, while Bolivia is ready for II A 1 'd 1 · t · d d' t 1 peace negotiations. sma · S ong as your 1 ea S are Inaln a111e ' This is a world for the strong u rng 0 erance at every pore, the The biggest Army bill since 1921 and you give each n 1 ember his money's only. Before there was such a thing Chairman of the Initiation Commit- is up in the House of Representa- worth, you merit a place on this campus. as civilization, the flowers and wild tee gives a slightly sardonic smile tives. It provides for $50,000,000 plants fought for the right to live. as he attempts to ju:otify having more than the present appropri- Only clever faculty supervision, however, can '.Phe flabby jelly-fish gave way to ation, The allotment to air defenses llusy insects, and the insects tu aent one freshman for the stockings is considerably higher. in.sure a maintenance of these high stand- backboned teleost,;, and the fishes of the dgaret gi1'1 in a Hartford The United States government is ards. Once these are allowed to slip, a dose and frog~ and dinosau1s to mam- Hotel, another for an autographed preparing to lift the ban on Ford mats and intelligence. unmenitionable from New Lodon, motor eat'S and patch up the diffi- of Pi Gamma Mu's medicine \Vill be in order. Definite nu.tural laws hold true in culties resulting from the N. R. A. nature-and one says that th~ and a third for a privy seat. dispute some time ago. Reports say sti:ong survive. The same law; \Sure they like it. They get a the gov<!rnment will again place guide and force huma11 life- and big kick out of it. Why, I can re- contracts with the Detroit company. everywhet·e, in the heart of a me- TO THE INITIATE Those mem:bers of the student body who tropolis, or amid the whir of indus- try, or in an old-fashioned parlo1 where a man and maid pledge true love, or in a gold and black night member how I enjoyed my que8t ,-;::=·-::·=-::-=-==========~~~ years ago. They sent me out to get I ~he Grab Bag a sign saying ·.Moodus, 3 1-2 miles' . and •. , \ !.!;;;============;J are being welcomed into the bonds of frater- According to this reasoning. then, nal friendship tomorrow night are entering a ~· ~ Hell Week is desig-ned almost en- PUNCTILIO tilely for the freshman's pleasure. new phase of their college careers. 1 t is a · 1'he House discards its titudying. its P hase which will prepare them for the rc- !..;;;;;;===========;... movie-going, to think up new ways Thanks to guest conductor Igno- .:>1> the freshmen can have fun. And, Sj)OnsibiJity Which they !11USt aSSUme in t\11,.•0 LU::;, His good juo last week Wlh in the next breath, the fmtemities '·I th' \l ']\' · .;how up this eftort or mine today . .:Jay that Hell Week b intended to years. Jv oreover, IS respomn Ji. ILY I.S per- make the freshmen realize the new L have exactly twenty-six minutes petul:tl, and improvement::; are made in ft•a- m which to th1ow the guff and m) r~sponoibilitieo they will ~uon ac- mlnd closely re::;embles the interiOl quire in becoming members of the ternal life as in any other fOl'lH of life \Vith of u defunct electric light bulb. houce u.nd sharers of its inviuhble which we come in contact. \ecrets. And the third breath ac- * • * C(}mpanies a vehement denial of Fraternity life as an undergraduate ctln easily be divided into two phases, the first of taking, and the second of receiving. Perhaps no greater joy overwhelms a freshman than that he gets at the moment in which he re- ceives his badg-e. Nevertheless, the receiving of the badge is only the symbol of welcome, When column-critic· Davis in- veighed against .Middlesex Notes 1e Hell Week la.st Friday he used a quotation of telling pithiness. What wasn't mentioned is of interest. That quote was from last year':, Middlesex Notes when in the cus- tody of P. W .. , . \The old order changeth . . \ * and he has yet to prove his true mettle. A contributor dt ops a postea I'd to Throughout the freshman and sophomore inquire whether ou1· college comp- troller is a nobleman. The recent years he is learning constantly; he learns squib concerning Antony deH how to live with people other than his own Hoadley is quite correct except for spelling Anthony wrong. The deH. immediate family; he learns how to respect is a. middle name whicll I do not the advice of those who are conducting the know how to spell. All of which re- minds me of that jingle whicl. affairs of his fl·aternity; and lastly, he learns Beetle sings in Stalky and Co.- to make friends more easily by virtue of his: \Our Heffy is a nobleman,\ etc .... fraternal connection. During the junior and senior years, an undergraduate in a fratemity is on the other side of the fence. If he is wise and thought- ful, he seeks to improve the methods of his fraternity in each of these respects. He has the definite responsibility of moulding the college careers of the undergraduate mem- bers of his fraternity. The rituals which fraternities use are de· signed to teach an appreciation of the step which is being' taken. Some of the fratern- ities employ the old-fashioned methods of Hell Week to d1·ill an appreciation of the en- trance to a new phase of college life. We shall say no more about the senselessness of this informal ritual. (For those who are in- terested, we endorse the editorial on Hell Week in the Wesleyan Argus, and reprinted in this issue of The Concordiensis under the heading 'Week's Best Editm·ial'). Whether you are welcomed by the flat side of a lladdle, or by a most impressive formal ceremony, we congratulate you on your new mission and charge you to assume the re- sponsibilities that will be placed upon your shoulders in the same manner with which they are bestowed upon you. Thanks to House '38. * I nominate for the windiest stretch in college that diagonal walk from the K. A. lodge to the north end of vVashburn. .some ol our past windy days have threaten- ed to snatch the hair fr01n my head. The Psi U's speak well of the path on their end of Washbul'n, but the heated air from the chapel may have something to do with that. Now I !mow what 0. 0. Ivicintyre means by writing \froth!\ And I had tG look his name up twice be- fore I could spell it. As Prof. Stewart was telling about the German fairy land where \roast pigs run around with knives and forks in their backs and baked fish leap from the streams to your mouth and ... \ \You're wanted on the phone\ rumbled Dr. Coffin poking his head in at the door. Pro- fessor Stewart blushed and dismiss- ed class amid the usual roars. * * * It's rank heresy to say so, but I do not conside1· \David Copperfield\ the most wonderful movie I have ever seen. It was interesting for the whole of its· two and a qua1•ter hours but that is Dicken.'s doing to a large extent. The comparison which comes to mind is that as a vaudeville show the picture was a success. A Winehellian orchid to Freddie Bartholomew, who is not allowed to play with any American children for fear he'll lose his ac- cent. J. B. D. hypocrisy. Ever since collegians began to think for themselves, the institution of Hell Week has been under fire. The House continues it, in modified form to be sure, but the individual brother,; have begun to wonder If the argument \the freshmen like it\ holds water. Is there any need for ttle House providing such assinine forms of amuseme11t for the ftesh- men? Why cen't they, of their own initiative, search out HtrJCkings, brassiet cs and privy seats? Or why doesn't the Hou.:;e go a little fm ther and design a reu.lly comprehensive 3Chedule for their retrieving tobots so they can have e...-en more fun? And fraternity rilembcrs ate r.aore and more que,Uoning the old idea that such horse-play equipci the neo- phyte foe admis-sion into the ::;ecrets of the chapter-room. Paddling' a freshman until he needs medical at- tention, pairing the neophytes off to see who can knock the ot.her out first, taking all social privileges a- way :from them--does this really im- press upon them the momentous- ness of the step they me about to tal':e? Will a man be a better fra- ternity brother after standing three hours in a coal bin? Intelligent fraternity members are groping hard and unsuccessfully for an an- swer in the affirmative. But the purposeless institution persists in spite of its lack of sin- cere !lUppoi t by the individual mem- bers of the fraternities. Change, then, must corne a.s the result of the freshmen's initiative. After all, it is they who bear the •brunt of the attack. It's their marks that suf- fer; it's they that undergo public embarrassment and physical and mental pain. And it's in their unity and sincerity that the greatest hope for change lies. A unified delegation, acting through its ch.airman, can put an end to the horseplay. A flat declar- ation that \You treat us like com- panions and abolish the superflu- ous and purpos•eless activities· of Hell Week or here are your fifteen pledge pins\ could bring any fra- ternity to its senses. And the dele- gation that does just that will not go unpledged long, should the fra- ternity decide to bluff it out. In Its saner moments, every fraternity on the hill realizes that. it is that type of delegation-one that can think, speak and act for itself~that Is the best choice in the long run. -WESLEYAN .ARGUS Union proudly waves the yellow flag once more, as an epi- demic of measles sneaks across the campus. All this would be fine and goo<!, were it not for the fact that they are Germa.n me:tsles, which is a cl.ild1 en';; disease -·and the pay- off came wl.en one of the unobtru- sive frosh reporters phoned the Con em t!y office to say that he could not bring his story in because he was afflicted. Unclean! Unclean! ~~ * J!c ... Once in a while we get one of those headlines that come right out of the page and hit you in the eye. For example, \Students to Aid in Mill• Consumption Survey.\ What, a change of tactics? Draw two! * * • ... Making ourselves the black sheep of the columnist flock, we hasten to the defense of hell week, so called because it does some of our \·better class\ freshmen a hell of a lot of good. The constant wearing down of these men; the outspoken statement of any and all faults, and physical encounter where everything elz·e fails is one of the greatest goods a man can get from college. If he taltes seri- ously what is said, he gets the per- fect picture of what others see In him- --and the value thereof is far above rubies. * + * ... We have scanned these pages futilely for weeks, only to find no ad from certain rendezvous therein. How about it Willie? When does that Hofbrau ad that we have per- sonally more than paid for this week appear? GeeBee ---o•--- Notes On Our Contemporaries W{}rklng Men Approximately 85 per cent of the mel11'bers of the Columbia Univers- ity (New York City) graduating class have obtained positions. • Cover Charge • • Vassar College (Poughkeepsie, N. Y.) is considered to be the most expensive of the women's colleges in the United States. It costs ap~ proximately $1,350 to cover the yearly expenses of each student. • Fixed Is Right • • Columbia University (New York City) physicists last year under~ took to measure the size of the neutron during the past year. This is one of the newer sub-atomic par~ llcles, having mass but no electric charge. Its diameter was fixed at .0000000000001 inch. • Hawaii Again • • The University of Hawaii, con~ queror of California ill football Oil New Year's day, is negotiating with Yale for a game in New Haven in 1937. -· - H E Va A c tea fur gr:= sp:t six:. he( onl vaJ an• rna vaJ fUJ: '\ flv by ago tee wi of m~ OJ> on ca sh tw Be ce sii m· ia Jv.[ D· In a§ a::: ib to tl:: fi ec 2_ 1:J fc

as often Parlia- mt that :cGovern Le House ern was 'linst the rhich he Le crown erations. betng a of soci- he lower >eal was that in- ubilee, a mng to laboring to the :ource of startling making ustry in .and re- ;dLng ex- Brewers Japanese h.out the a! manu- bottles. J.ermany exporta- snificant be.et• in- t in Ger- dispute ~rated to oser will ons pro- . nner !e- ms. Just 'I of v!c- .ady for .nee 1921 nesenta- 50,000,000 lppropri- defenses nment is on Ford :he diffi- N. R. A. ~arts say in place :ompany. wes the an epi- ~ross the fine and fact that which is the pay- Ul1obtru- ned the he could :ause he rnclean! get one me right IU in the !ents to Survey.\ ? Draw he black lock, we ell week, some of m a hell constant nen; the y and all ncounter .s is one man can Jtes seri- the per- rs see in Jf is far )Se p,.ges find no l therein. hen does 1ave per- for this }eeBee ur es nt of the Univers- ·aduating ons. hkeepsie, the most colleges costs ap- >ver the tudent. ew York r under- ~ of the :ar. This >mic par- > electric fixed at ·ail, con- otball on Ung with traven ln THE CON'G-DR'DIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 19'35 Hockey Teams Won Two Out of Eight· Encounters ia Disastrous Campaign . Varsity Scmed Only Victory Against M. I. T.; Frosh Beat Williston Aeaden1y another win to· their long stt ing of coi1secutive victories. Dl'O(l Tough One In the same week the .Union six . travelled to Clinton to meet the · S Ll DES By MILTON A. BERGER Hamilton team. 0nly in the last .J.b===============================-:• Old. man winter and his athletic ·five seconds of play wet e the Buff teams seem to be taking a seat and Blue boys able to brea:kthrough We nc.te· with intereot the renaissance of the Spiked Shoe Society, furth.et• and further back in the· the expert defense-work of Ken To quol.e a.. ut.atenrent :by the secretaty of th.e organization: \Spiked Shoe grandstand as the beginning. of the Toru.pkins for the ·lone, winning is a national .tr-ack fratet nity which promotes the interest of track. It sprin.g days approaches. ~f the tally. The game, which was be- began a.t C:ol utnlila in 1923 and dnce has spread ~mti! thet e aPe sil:'-teen six. squads which took part m the !ieved to he the best Union played chaptere ~t-oth.er universitied and colleges. The local chapter enJoyed hectic activities of the cold months, this season, brought out some o± a successhul ~xistence until June 1933, when the nucleus of tts member- only three are now functioning; the the rea·!ly fine play of the ice-team.· ship was ~!a:duated. It has been dormant since, t!:c>n cxcel?t for ~ne varsity quintet, the fencing team, One contradictory comfort of the· meeting;. The· ren1aining mcmbets ate now anxLous to .bmld up ,he and the swimming squad. Fresh- sea.son may be found in the fact chapter and make ·its presence really worthwhile.\ man 'llockey and baskelball and 'that almost every game was filled Tl!.e lmstsen:tence above \·oices what we hope is the l>eynoie of a va:rsliy hocltey teams are now de- with penalties against the Union' New :IIe=tl in tl1e C()nduct of this society. The pre\·imb:ly mention~>d funct. team,. and the greater part of the' statenwDt c~nti..nues: \Tile Spllted Shoe :Society will assume the 'The•Ga;1net sextet in its season of opposing teams' scoring came while. runnU!g of ·in'terlra.tentity tra{lk and cross-country merts and sp.onso•· five game-.a made a poor showing a depleted •team fought-off attacks. intmrnt~Jal tr:ack adivity. It will also recognize and honor parHcular by winning only one ~ontest, t.hat. In the Williams .game all of the distiru\tion IL!Dil ·alivl1Jlctm 1 ent of college men in track wm·lt. The against M. I. T. Tw1ce che 1ce- Put·ple scores weve made when member:s \WIU. also sen·e as officials in these meets and further team. cancelled its engagements, there w·ere .penalties a:gainst the interest ltL track 1 11 hig!J. and pr~para~ory schools. Tiw members will with the Middte·bury teatn because Dutchmen, and the same was true act a.s lhostl! to the trackiUen of visiting institutions and bring a of .pom· ,playing conditions and once in the Ha:rnil ton fracas, seven fouls closer !bcmd ·~f fi!lcndsltlp among the track men and coHeges.\ met the Middies ·in a pla)Dff of the· being called, on the Union boys dur- OJ>ening game. ing tne game. At West Point there It appea..rs th.at the society is .planning to act in order to escape . was less fouling than usual, but a fate siinil'a-r to that of Phi Delta Epsilon and Tau Kappa Alpha. It Frosh Wm One Ga.nle , enoug·h to offset any advantage of is adopti111.g a course of action to justify its existence. Such actions \''he f.rosh skaters, who :played· the Gan1et six:, are hig-h!,.- ·C~nmendable. Yet it can go farther. It wu:sn't so long ago only thvee of the four games on the Eight Points For Frosh when Uni.on. .1v~s n<Jted for its \Lrack-consciousness.\ It boasted an caleu.dar, made a good all-round The yearling squad made a tolal a,rray o.feincier-\path and field artists almost without peer in\ the small- sh.o;vmg ~!though they dropped of eight points in their three games college world. An amblHous coach made sure he gvt the best men ana two of thetr contests. The Albany. to a like amount made by their op- that they ~'Dt the best of everything. Sometimes he wasn't too sct·up- Boys' .Academy match was can- 1 'Th L S h 1 k t ulcus a..st .. o t:he manner in which he attained these results. He sent men ll d t he · time that ·lhe var-· ponen s. e enox: .c 00 5 a e~s to sect'o~a! !lleets. aLld tiiJonsmed several winter n1c:ets. He produced ce e same barely managed to wu:'l 3 to 4 m ~ ·~ sity W8;B unable to meet ·th.e Ver- the OJJening ·encounter ~gainst 'the reco 1 ·d bt·ealcer:s, Union can become \track-conscious\ again. Last yeat:'s mont srx .. , . . fl'Osh. Strangely enough, fouls team was big:hly successful. A lat ge numbet of the members wrH In a sputted openmg game, Vo/Ill- played a g1.·eat part during this probably -compete this year and next. Spiked Shoe can hell? put Union iams defeated the Dul~htnen at the · conte:st in' aiding the Lenox team back ontlle ·ttack:. map, 'bY sponsoring an mdoor meet next wmter. M:ohawlt Golf Club nnk •. 3 to 0 · to opJlose the }lenalized fieshru.en. D~sp1te i:che l?ss the, .Un>on ie:>m Agaitist the· Williston Academy m.ad.e an rmpreostv e showmg six. the cubs played a strategic against its more experienced riva~s. crame scOl'ing .an their goals while ~nd looked forward to succ~ss m ~he ~trong wind during that day rt.s other games. The Army Cade~s was with them. A hvo point ad- took the cc:_unt. of the Garnet tn vantage ov,er the Massachusetts the second contest, 4 to 0. team was lleJJt intact after the Beat N.L I. T., 3 to 2 teams courteously changed their The Union skaters came through goals so that each might benefit finally in the M. I. T. contest to by the wind. edge out the Tech tearn here, 3 to After the 2 to 0 victory, the year- 2_ Austin Fox scored twice for lings met the championship Clinton Uni<>n, and! Bob Warner accounted High School team here, and suc- fm• the other point. cumbed in a hard tussle, 4 to 3. At Mjdd!ebury, Vt., the Dutchmen Fritz Hawley was the high scorer took an early lead against their for the frosh on the ice, scoring fcrrnldable opponents when Hugo five of his team's goals. Jim Bond Bet-gman scored the last goal of the was .~econd with two, and Charlie s.eason for Union, but the Middies Little, expert defense man, was C\ame :back in full force to add next with one. Thirty-One Water Col()l'S By Development of Steam Wolch<mok Compase Exhibit Turbine T1·aced by Emmet Thirty-one water color paintings are included in the exhibit spon- sorEd by the Schenectady College Women's Club and now beiug held i.n. the Old Gym Dorm. lilt of the paintings are done by Louis Wol- chonok, and are all on. landscapes ana industrial subjects. 'l'he paint- ings were sent here through the courteay of the Ehrich-Newhouse Galleries of New York, The exhibit clearly portrays the fact that Mr. Wolchonok:. has spent :much. of his time in the vicinty of ]{ingston, from whence r:nost of the }la.intings in the exhibit were taken. Th.e calm serenity of a small town in. the heart of New York State viv- idly put into colors by this Amer- ican master of arts. The rustic at- mosphere of this mid-Hudson port weaves Its way into each of the ·pa:intings. Interested in Railroads Lecturing before the students of the engineering departments Tues- day and Thursday a:fternoons Dr. Williaru. LeRoy Emmet, Honorary Fellow in engineering and world famed inventor and developer of steam tutbines and the mercury vapor process of creating power, discussed the growth and in partic- ular the development of the steam turbine ill which he is especially intex·ested. Spen.lcing of steam turbines he expLained the operation and chief characte1·istics of the Parson's tur- bine and contrasted it with the De- Laval ty}le. With the aid of black- board illustrations Dr. Emmet de- scribed the vertical type turbine which he has developed and which is widely used at the present time. He also discussed the lncr.easing importance of turbines as a means of obtaining power and mentioned the large number that were used by the Navy. .Apparently Mr. Wolch.onok is in- OIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATIONS tensely interested: in railroad eriglnes, for he has used them as a. J3Ubject for many of th.e paintings n()vt in the exhtbit at the Old Gym Dorm, The roundhouse, the turn- ta:.ble, the station, as vvell as the engine Itself have furnished Mr. Wolchonok with sufficient back- gli'otlnd. for a number o:f paintings. \The rural scenes themselves can ·be well appreciated by- those who have spent much time in the rural s~tions ()f New Yorlt State. The· w:inding roads, the tall trees, and the green landscape, as contrasted w:ith. the clear blue slty have been done a.dmira.bly in water colors by M:r, Wolchonok. The \White House\ and \The A.bn.ndoned House\ are two exam- ples of his treatment of ·old houses, another favorite subject. In the for- !ner. Wolchonok has especially caught the personality of the house in a. remarkably successfully way. The exhibition will continue tbrough Wednesday and will be (}}len ~very day from tht•ee until six a.•ciock. The bianlts showing the qualifica- tions for taking Civil Service ex:am- inations in bacteriology are in the placeru.ent bureau at the admissions office in the Administration build~ ing. Students interested in looking this information over may see them upon appticaUon at th:e admission desk, 1niramural Basketball Leagues Schedule lUonday 7:30-Lambda Chi Alpha vs. Kappa Alplta. 8:30-Neutrals vs. Delta Chi. Tuesday 7:3()-Tlteta Delta Chi vs. Alpha Phi Delta. 8:30-Kappa. Nu vs. Phi Delta Theta. HOTEL VAN CURLER • the supper club at the hotel van curler invites you to spend saturday evening at the smartest spot in town • music by the garnet goblins • vocals by Evelyn Kole • service from the tap room • and ihe couvert, fifty cents • here, within easy driving or walking distance 1 the answer to • where to go • and what to do • The Garnet Coblins 'Was'lingt(}n Great Busin~ss Man/ Fox U nioa Presi<demt Depicts The Anaedcau Hero as A :Nati()lt- \milder Foc11sing t;he s}lotlight of history on. Ge'()t:ge Washington again, Dr·. .DiXon R:Yan Fox., in an address at Morristo'i.Nn, N. .;·., this afternoon, brougbt otLt t.he highlights in . .the colorful punting of the natiOnal hero that historians have been limnin.g and designing and ref:ur- ·bishing t:hrougl1 th.e years. Domg ·mm·e than vetouching the .pictur- esque cit.nv-as -that represents the Ameri<:an i-dea of Washington, Dr. Fox speaking: 'before a large audi- enc~ at thee Celebr-ati011 C>f Wash- ington.'s ·blrth<Iay by the Washing- ·ton Assodn. tio n of New Jersey, add- ed a sect.io~ of his own to the pic- ture, and depicted the first presi- dent a.s E.h~ prototype of the Amer- ican bus iness rnan. Few· have thought of Washington in this respect. And yet it wa.s Washing:ton, i.n his first message to Congr-ess, -wh.o observed that the promotion of tnan ufactures would be arnon..g -the first which may na- turally be expected from a11 ener- getic goyet-:nrnen t. \It is this policy,\ said Ilr _ Fox: in developing his theme !Pf ~ashington as the busi- OJess r:naD,. • '.th.:is· policy of encourage- ment oE tnanufactures along with tranSJlOt:\taf;ion '~hich had made possible t:llree hundred cities <Jf over ~0,00()- people each, whereas in his day tit-ere \Vere only two.\ Waslibngf;o11 National Hero Dr. Ji\\()X also spolte of Washi11g\ ton IlLS \''thee :national hero.\ Unlike Lee ~>r Litt()Oi.n, lle said, Washin;gton remajns tbe ller-o of ·both the North and t:he. s~ut:h. ·Washington was a Soutbet-:ne:r;. ihat among other cir- cumstances made him especially avail:abl e f:o ~onunand a revolution w.hich 'l:a.aiL it:s loudest and most pic- tures.qUE :support in the northern town~. HE ;e!U..ains the hero of the North and South alike in a way that n~;-ith:.er Lee nor Linc·oln have been amd probably never can be. We lla\Vc l1ad eastern heroes and westErGt :heroe:s, but Washington was easi117 I>\Oth.\ Wasiltingt~>n is the truly Repre- sentati'ile A.n!Ccl'ican. \He was a .balanced, well-rounded and sym- mett·ic•l xna..n, without salient spe- cial glf1:s ]lerha.:ps, but without glar- ing la~:ks a.:s vvell. No one would contend tbat he realized all the pos- sibilities <Of humanity; but he did sum U!Jl, to an impreesive degree, the traits, 'ihe aitributes and the PAR..K L~UIIIDRY, INC. l!J5 Oblton St. (Uilx>r Temple) •I-HONE 49011 C~l/f:'ge Bundles a Specialty experiences we tl:ink of as Ar::et ican.'' Washington wos trpically an Ametican too in that l:e was a pa- tron of learning. \He was a self- developed man not highly tr·aineci in schools, but he desired that hiE stepson receive a colle~e education. Academic opportunity in the United States has been paid for chiefly by men who had risen to success with- out -it, men who have desired, never- theless, that their country should have facilities which they them- selves have lacked.\ Dr. Fox also spoke on Washing- ton last night before the members of the Utica Y. M. C. A. in a special lecture course there. His topic was \Washington Our National Hero.\ ---0·--- Union l\'iay Ee Represented On CoHege Pro:rn Progi-am An attempt is being made by Mr. Milton M. Enzer, assistant to the president for public announcements-, to have the Junior Prom included on tho Kellogg College Prom pro- gram through the National Adver- tising Servtce, Incorporated of New York City. Word has been received that plans for this project have not been made as far ahead as May 3, but the agency hopes to dedicate one of its spring proms to Union. JEWELRY-WATCHES Schenectady VVatch Hospital EXPERT WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING All Work Done on Premises at HECKMAN'S JEWELRY STORE 403 State St., Sclrenectady, N. Y. r••ic<l_::'t.(.::'~·,. - Good Ho-rsek.ecping ~ • Bureau ¥-.._ •·•ou,.;;;;;,;c,...•'}• ====H Your Guide In Buying Ice Cream at YOUR DEALER'S STORE o•· PHONE 4-9106 Gazette Press New Russian Faith Lodged in Science Mase]y Discusses History Of Anti-Religious Thoug1ht In the Soviet \The anti-religious cast of thought in Soviet R•JtJsia has a long hi~tot y, a his tot y as tong as that of Rus::;ia:s conta·ct and rivwlry wi tit the west,\ deelund Dr, Philip Mose- ly, insu·uctor in history, Wednesday evening; in his pt ovocative discus- ,; ion of \H.eligion and Ethics in Soviet Ru::;sia\ at the third Y. M. ~. A. Fomm held in the Old ChapeL The main charactet-istics of the Soviet philosophy wete pointed out a,; composed of materialism, collec- tivism, and patriotism. Dr. Mosely pointed out that the fii·st compon- ent of the new faith \occupying the throne vacated rather forcibly by <he Russian 01th.odox Ch.urch\ is science. In the Soviet \.the scien- tidt is appealed to with. the touch- .ng faith with which their ances- tors inv0ked St. Nicholas and St. Michael.\ Outlines Dcv!'[(lpm~>nt of R~Iigion Dr. Mosely outlined briefly the history and development of t:eligion in RuB10ia. until the present time, showing the change from strict orthodoxy prior· to 1905 to the ex- tre.ni~m of the sects in the pt·e-war period. \The Russian revolutionary movement, wh:ch grew with amaz- Three Union Delegates Attend Yale Theatre Conference Union College has -two official representatives today and tomorrow at the national theatre conference at Yale University where the prob- lems of the new world of the thea- tre wHl be discussed by outstanding author•ities of the United States and where special tribute will be paid to the late George Pierce Baker. The two delegates are Mr. Ed- waed L, Carroll, instructor in Eng- lish, director of the Mountebanks Theatre and secretary of the Insti- tute of the Theatre which will take place here nex.t summer and Milton M. Enzer, assistant to the president, for .public annonucements, graduate manager of the Mountebanks and assistant manager of the Mohawlt Drama Festival and Institute of the Theatre. Tribute to Baker The conference opened this morn- nig at 9 ·o'clock and will continue until late tomorrow night. Tomor- row afternoon the tribute will be paid to Professor Baker who while at Harvard founded the famous workshop course in drama. Among those taking part in the ceremony will be Dr. Thomas H. Dickinson who is another pioneer of the work- shop method of teaching dramatic literatus. While Professor Baker was at Yale, Dr. Dickinson was do- ing similar work at the University of Wisconsin. Dr. Dickenson is di- rector of the Institute of the Thea- tre at Union College. Dean Meeks to Welcome ing force from the 1860's was often Tomorrow morning the delegates materialist, rationalist, and anti- will be welcomed by Dean E. V. religious in tendency.\ Meeks and M·r. Allardyce Nicoll • T'1e mo: e important side of the new philosophy for the ordinary Soviet citizen is the .practical. \This new Russian ideal is distinctly strenuous ... this new faith is an activating force. 1t stimulates ac- tivity, rel'3ases energies. It explains the great enthusiasm of the youth of H.ussia for a faith which urges it to !eat n and work.\ After a meeting and dinner of the council, F1·ederick McConnell will open the afternoon session with a talk on \The Community Play- house.\ Lee Simonson, scenic de- signer for the Theatre Guild, will then give his experienced views on \The Student into the Professional.\ A round table discussion, led by Hallie Flanagan and Lester Lang . on the \Experiments in the Modern CoUectivism and Patriotism Theatre,\ will be the nex.t event in the afternoon's proceedrngs. An- The features of the collectivism: other discussion on the development and patriotism in the new religion' of the theatre libraries and collec- were also pointed out by Dr. Mose- tions as tools of the New Theatre, ly. \In Russia a. person's waking led by Rosamond Gilder, Florence hours are planned and spent collec- Overton, and George Freedley, will tively; one does not go for a hike, conclude the afternoon session. In one undertakes a collective prom- the evening the delegates will wit- enade.\ ness the student production of \The The discussion which followed Dr. Barber of Seville\ by Beaumarchais. Mosely's speech was for the most pa:rt peacefully concemed with some questions about the present- day modes and feelings of the Soviets towards religion, l!owever, some active discussion on the ad- vantages of the new regime were stin1u!ated when a \real\ commu- nist vented his views and criticisms on the subject. Bellinger Paint Co. ARTHUR; TRIGG, Prop. Paints, Oils, V arnlshes, Glass Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY REUTER 9 S BOWLING ACADEMY Where Y, ou Can Enjoy Yourself Afternoons and Evenings In Pleasant Surroundings \Schenectady's Finest Alleys .. 148 Clinton St. UNION COlLEGE BOOK STORE Room •s • Administration Building College Seal Jewelry Fountain Pens Pennants Leather Goods OUR NEW LINE CIGARETTES and SMOKING TOBACCO Hours-8:45 · 12:00, 1:15 • 5:00 ,;

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1935 Memory of First President Honored Toppan Writes Article Sunday Chapel Speal\:er For Journal of Geology ls Author and Editor Tidmarsh- cert on the night of March 2. On Sunday, March 3, the club will sing in Cortland, and again in Bingham- ton. In order to avail themselves of all possible op·por-tunlties for rehear- sals, the club will have organized practice,;; in Elmira and Bingham- ton. following night's concert is sched- uled for Freeport, Long Island. O:q Sunday, March 10, the club wlll give a concert in the metropolitan area, the place being undesignated as yet. Monday, March 11 will find the club in State College, Pa., where it will give a joint conceFt with the club representing New England, Fox Relates Washingum\s Ac- complishments in Life And Influence in Death The memory of the resourceful, energetic, and representative Amer- ican, George Washington, was hon- ored yesterday in daily assembly by President Dixon Ryan Fox in his talk on the great national hero. \The hero who expresses the na- tional taste was the son of his country long before he became the father of an independent state,\ de- clared Dr. Fox. The accomplishments of the ver- satile, but not too brilliant, Wash- ington were traced in many differ- ent fields. \It W!!B not the soldier that won the war,\ said Dr. Fox in speaking of Washington's fight for Colonial independence, \but the man. In the face of all adversity he fought and achieved the aim of Independence.\ Could Have Been liing Offered the chance to become king at the end of the revolution, Washington rejected the crown un- like Napoleon, and banished the thought of dictatorship from Amer- ica forever. \Washington was never greater\ said Dr. Fox than when he subdued the rebelling officers of a neg1ected, suffering army. The usual rewards which victot- ious generals took after theh· wars were not taken by Washington. '·He took only his country's gratitude,\ Dr. Fox asserted. After his eight years as head of the government he \became the unassum.ing citizen and became the best farmer in America.\ \He diN! at thP Pnd of 1799,\ Dt FtJX Ctlll( 'tltit tl .tn•l t11 ... lt 11 '1th v. t\\ \The PhysiC>graphy of Maine\ is the title of the atticle written by v't ederick W. Top pan, instructor in geology at Union College, which ap- pears in the current issue of the Journal of Geology. Mr. 'l'oppan is leaving Union at the conclusion of the current cClllege year to study at the University- of California for his doctorate, specializing in physio- graphy. The at\ticle which Mr. Tappan wrote points out that Maine is di- vided into four physiographic divi- sions. The ~1rst of these is a belt of nearly level country which ex- tends inlall.ds from the sea coast :or an average distance of about fifty miles. :It is known as the coastal lowlands. Farther inland is a zone of !'oiling country which ex- tends diagonally across the state, :Lveraging about 500 feet above sea- level. 'fh.e western third of the state 1s occupied by the Moosehead Pla- teau which b.as an average eleva- non of about 1;00() feet. The fourth physiog1aphlc di:vision has been termed by Ml'. Toppan as the Aroo- stook valley subdivision. It com- prities a considerable a1ea of t•olling country in northeastern Maine which is drained by the Aroostook River. but Hn f·rJiqHlP in t 1... c \ntinuuH }Ju\Vei. Tl.c t~dll.'l ol til. t llld_:.. \\ttil I a \'lay tllt• l.tn.i. ht· li .. 't tt llp•Jn t:H great cnp1t.nl ht• Juught pl.tnnt>d an .. ! \which J.llo.JUua} LH.dl;o. IJL~' n.tl!.t'11U) I lH.' engulfl'Ll b} Ju!ll<' ;..tt:'<l • u.l.<:· \ ti O}Jlw U.t..~ VvtH itl rna~ , Lc.u.~t· Ll' yund all 1-'cugnllwn, but w hde tllel\ tead tile {><tg•·~ of lthtot) t l!t' n •·t .• - ozy of ht!-< ltfe \\Ill .u.t .u'l.l' lLt· be.:,t J1 t'dltl uf tht·U l1t·l !t I \'t!. t·~.· 0 Dr. \\'old Puhli:.-;lu:s I:.aocr On Shifting of Sp~ctrun:: --- I n, p,,,, ' \V .. I.·. <~.~t•nwn .,rl the Ftc·ld t•f Phy,Ics. I, lht· aut hot 1 uf\ !••p•t puh't,l.l·•l in tht t:ttt·nt 1 1-\'U'' t•f 'T!t J,~)-• 1 f\':.t\ ot'l tl.c \l~vdl\ SI.Jft ..r Sprrttai 1 Lin\· nf Xt•hu'.Il' ·• l ln lu:; <•tlldc lJr. \\'t,.t.l , X!Jialll. : that in ltgi.L from the 1 emote ~p1ral 1 IH.:bulat.: lLt.: .:l!Jt:l.ll...L~ uJH.;,:, ..t•\.: ,:,}uft 1 lllg tuwat<l, t lre t ~L. and tl.c umuunt of shift a ).I pear ti to be gut te clo;;ely 1 propo1 tiona! tu the dt:;tancc to the remote nebulae. It 1s po.:,,lble to ex·\ plain thi,; red.-.anl shtft on the basis that the nebuLtc, no matter in what uuection one may look out into ~pace, ate rc.:ed:ng hom us with a velocity which is propor· twnal to their d.~tanceo. This im- plica that the universe i; expanding I and the rate of expansion on this theory i~ vet y large lnuce<l, amount- I ing to about 23,000 m1le!O per second for nebulae a million light years away. The theory has met with consid- erable skept1ciEm from many other physicists and other attempts have been made to account for the red- ward shift but no suital:Yle explan- ation has been forthcoming. ---- -o- - 1\IONTI-:BANK'S TiltYOUTS Tryout~ for thP MontPbar.k's next play, \Twelfth Night\ by William ShakPspeare, will b~ hPld at 7·30 p. m. in Hanna hall, l\londay and Tuesday. This play wil be pre- sented In May during Junior Week. CHARLES' F<lrmerly ED'S The Official Union College Barber I for the past 24 yEU~rs. Aslt any upper classmen, they know. 11 operators. Schenectady's greatest barber. COR, STATE AND DliOADWAY FINEST FOODS ALWAYS DANCING SATURDAY and SUNDAY from 10 until closing No Cover - No Minimum PELOP'S RESTAURANT 438 State St. Opp. Jay St. Dr. Reinbold Niebuhr, professor of Christian Ethics and Philosophy of Religion at the Union Theolog- ical Seminary in New York City since 1928, will speak on Sunday, February 24, at the regular services ill the Memorial chapel. Dr. Niebuhr was educated at the Elmhurst (Illinois) College, the Eden Theolegical Seminary at St. Louis, Missouri; and the Ya:Je Divin- ity School, from which .he received his bachelor of divinity degree in 1914 and the master of arts degree (Continued from Page 1) Charles Reid, '36; and David Ring, '37. EJecond basses-Robert Wells, '36; William Boyd, '36; Byrne Ma- yer, '36; Frank Gatchell, '37; Nor· man Chadbourne, '35; Clemens Hathaway, '35; and James Walter, '36. The above men, and possibly half a dozen a:lternates will embark for Elmira one week from today and will give a concert in that city on that same evening. The following day they will entrain for Bingham- ton where they will stage a con- in 1915. Ft·om 1915 to 1928, Dr. Niebuhr I,~;;;;;;;_;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ was minister or the Bethel Evang- elical Church !11 Detroit, Michigan, and since then he has been profes- sor of Christian Ethics and Philo- sophy of Religion at the Union Theological Seminary. Dr. Niebuhr has been associate editor of \Christian Century\ since 1925 and edito!' of \World Tomor- row\ since 192&. He is the author of \Does Civilization Need Reli- gion,\ 1927; \Leaves fl'Om the Note- ,book. of a Tamed Cynic,\ 1930; and \Moral Men and Immoral Society,\ 1932. He is also a contributor to the \Atlantic Monthly\ ''Harper's\ and other periodicals. THE ACME BARBER SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS A PLEASURE 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS 9m <:>n March, 8 the club wil~ le3;ve, and the Penn State glee club. The for New York, whe~e they Wlll glVe following night will find the slnger.s a concert that evemng ~t the Hotel· ln Pittsburgh, from whence they .AJJtor under the auspices of the will start home on March 13, arriv- New York a1umnl association. The ing in Schenectady late that night. Need No Longer Be a Dead Evening The Show Place of the Capitol District presents THE CARNET COBLIMS The Best of Music • Food Beverages I am a friend indeed. A better friend than others, because I am made only of mild, fragrant, expensive center leaves. I don't permit a single sharp top leaf nor a single coarse bottom leaf to n1ar my good taste or my uniform mildness. I am a sooth- ing companion, the best of frie11ds. LEAVES GIVE YOU tHE MILDEST SMOKE - Cop)'l'JI]l~ l93D, Tile Amor1cllll Tobacco CompDJ11. = Vol = F1 11 TJ 1 cla chi he thl gil no ho WE th in th F< C< Sl m 'i E A H \ <... l J

, s ached- land. OY.I lub will t'opolitan lSignated will find a., whei\\e with the England,. ub. The e singers ~ce t)ley 13, arrlv- at night. >ttom r my )Oth- [ends. Stroebel Proposal Revi~ed, ~ecetves Applli\Use \, i ~~-- .... ·--- Vol. LVIII., No. 39 Fraternities Take 117 Freshmen Into Their Membership Group of Initiates Includes Over Half of Men in This Year's Freshman Class Many On Dean's List New Members Represent 27 Per Cent on Dean's List Fot High Scholarship More .tj:l~tn .half of the fresh!llan class were i'nitlated into campus chapters of ' national fraternities here this· weekend. Union, where the fraternity sy.stem had its be- ginnings mor·e than a century ago, now hat; twenty active chapters housed on or near its campus. The 117 freshmen initiated this weekend represent 27 per cent on lbe ])can'::; lt~l fur iugh :.;chularohip. Fiftt~t·n Ul,l,er-clas~rnen wet(._~ ahw initiated into campus fratermties. The list of the fratermlte::> anu tho;;~ they initiated, follows: Alpha Delta Phi--Wallace T. Foote, Charlea Chapin, Duncan Cornell, Charles Little, Robert B. Shepa1d jr., John Wold. Alpha Phi Delta--Albcl t Dia- mante, Armand A. Cammarota, Thomas DiDonna, Dominick 1\llele. Beta Theta l:'i-Robert <.:allison, Edward Carpenter, William Ladue, Aiexander Merriman,. Grant Smith, Hobert Templeton. Chi Psi -Joseph Bradbury, Clin- tun JJrown, Hotaep Byrne. Edson V. S. Draper, H. Kenyon Dye, Donald Furd, l>'r·ederick B. Hawley, Robert Madigan, Clycle MaTshall. Albert Wilson. Delta Chi Floyd uood1 ich, Wll- funl. i.cl'orestic<, Ge01·ge Haswell, \\ Keenan, Jamell Lotridge II,' <..!tude:, McCarthy, V\'illiam Moran, Newton Ritchie. Della. Phi John P. Delaney, .i~ussell H. Knox, DeWitt Brown, l.ico1ge ])oyic, Willim·d Hagadorn, Hobert W. Imrie, Frederick A. Jung, Langdon A. Wagener. Delta Upsilon -John H. Berg- \lrom John II. Brown, Willard W. Dean, C. \Varren Gammon~. John H. Gilmour, Charles N. Stewart jr., Hobe1 t T. Symonds, Robert V. W. Tiffany. I(appa Alpha Willard Reynold.s jr., F. Burnham Chapman, Gilmore Farrar, Arthur Burtis Lawrence, Cromwell Mcintosh jr., John Nott, (Continued on Page 4) Mosely Reappointed To Russian Language G1·oup Dr. Philip E, Mosely, instructor in history, has been reappointed as a member of the Sponsoring Com\ mlttee for the Russian Language school of the American Council of the Institute of Pacific Relations in New Yoi\k City. The purpose <>f this school is to give to especially interested students; journalists, diplomats, and publicists an inten\S- ive training·, equlpping them in a short period to use Russian mater- ials, The school, which was held last year at Harvard, will rotate among Eastern institutions with a meeting at Columbia this year. Enrollment is limited to thirty students, selected from the best qualified applicants on the basis of the recommendations of the members of the Sponsoring Com- mittee. .Anyone at Union College or in the Capitol ·district desiring to take advantage of this opportunity is invited to commuruicate with Dr. Mosely. Several grants-in-aid are available for especially meritorious applicants, and are ·assigned also through recommendations of the Sponsoring Committee. The school will be open fi\om June 24 to August 3(). The two courses, one for element- ary and Qne for advanced students will be in charge of Professor Patrickof the University of Calif- ornia. He will be assisted by two native Russian lecturers, and the intensive classroom work will be supplemented by individual tutor~ ial instruction. Othel' members of the Sponsoring Committee include Professoi\ Calvin Hoover, of Dilke University; Pro- fessor Samuel Harper, of Chicago University; Professor J::£. H. Fisher, of Stanfoi\d; Professor G_ T. Rob- inson, -of Columbia, and Lewis Lorwin, of Brookings Institute. ., •• t. 0 * •• -. ... 0 •• lS i. 117 Freshnetl. Initiat€d Into Fraternities .. rfD••--••a••• UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N • Y., TUESDAY, FEB~UARY 26,1935 PRICE FIVE CENTS cALENDAR Fox Te~s.of His ~elief In Glee Club to Give Only Mi_nd Malies .Good Stroebel Prop,osal Today Fratermties at Banquet S C t O · And Evd Says ::Ne1buhr I CL . ..1 -v 7:30-Psychology Club Meeting, , even oncer s fi n lt3flge{il .1 1 ()fm North Colleg_e 12. Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, as guest B w k d T \ Speaking on the compata.bility of. R • A } 7:45--Chemistry ClUQ Meeting, speaker a.t the 'l'heta Delta Chi ini- usy ee en. rip the infinities of evil and good in . ece1ves .pn.: a11se Chemistry Laboratory tiation banquet Saturday evening, 1' · · --- man's nature, Dr. Reinhold :Neibuhr, 8:00--German Club Meeting, Sill-'' at the Mohawk Golf Club told of iman Hall. the value of fraternities to Union Singers to Appear in Elmira, of the Union Theological.Sem.inary, Pr9posal Represents ()pinion Tomorrow College. \I believe thoroughly,\ One()nta, Binghamton and who was the preacher at the Sun- Of O I Hal Dr. Fox stated, \in the purpose and da.y Memorial Chapel services said: n Y f of Comnittee Daily Assembly-Richard Snyder mission. that the fraternity has to · Co1·tland Oil m... 1 'p C •d · M tt 3:30-Glee Club rehearsal, Han- .I.J. \The modern culture is complacent. ODSI enng a e1• perform. It is indeed gratifying to· na Hall. ' note that fraternity expenses at· Man is staying on a horizontal line; 8:00--VB>rsity Basketball, Union Union are moderate and that the' Gat·net Goblins Also Go . always above the infinite possib- versus Amherst at home. h t 1 f I. ld ouses are no pa aces, or wou ilities of evil and always under the· Thursday not estimate the worth of the fra- Other Report Later Daily Assembly- Samuel L. ternity by the show it could give College Dance Orchestra To infinite possibihties of good.\ Leonard, assistant professor of the world. I rejoice that all six of Although the evil and good are Report of Rest of Com.mittee biology. the fraternities· founded at Union Play for Groups in ElmiFa so paradoxically connected with, To B p t d t N t . th t d man,. Dr. Ne1'buhr '\Om· ted out that . . e resen e .a ex .'' all'€ now on e campus s rong an And · Bin h t \\ ,_.. __ ..,......_,__________ healthy. The relative position Of' rn g am on · \only the mind makes evil and Student Body MeEtiD\ C 11 t M · • ·t • evei\y Union fraternity in its r13- good.\ As an example he showed ! 9 ege. 0 ' aiR am specti:ve nat_ional organfzation is o. f. th;j.t cruelty is. not the creation Of th t t t t t th 11 , Going at full swing, the gle~ club· a natur_ al, impulsive man, but that' C - t . .o· ld P· -. li . e u mos Ill eres 0 e cp ege. t d It I t k f d ·n b i en ury . . . 0· cy· o _ fen er:et . f' s as wee 0 rl s e- ·a \cruel man iS one who has m.ade ore 1 ·s 1rst major trip of the year, himself God.\ D F ti I Is scheduled for this weekend. Two rama · es va rehearsals a day are being held The old axiom, \Love thy neigh- Relationship of College To C t f I t t .:his week in ,order to put on the bot\ as thyself\ holds the highest, . en· e r 0 n eres finishing touches for the seven-con- ultimate aspirations of good, ac- Fr ·aterm'ti' es to Remam · · · cordi. g t th c.h \Th d\ cert, three day trip which Donald n ° e prea er. e !- Friendly, Cooperative --- Hawkes, manager, has arranged ·mensions of evil, good, :possibilities Affail' Under Direction Of for the singers. The club will de- of evil and good, and the ultimate Dr. Fox was guest speaker at the llHt.atwn banquets or the Theta Delta Chi, Delta Upsilon, beta · l.'het:.: 1--i, and Alpha lJelta Phi ft·a- Cobums, Dickinson Excites Interest of Conference temille:; Saturday night. In the Some of the outstanding men in .:urrent is:.ue of The AlUmni Month- the theatre have given enthusiastic ly, Preident Fox, writing on \a col- cndmsement to the action of Union lege p1 esident's view of fratern- College in sponsoi'ing the Mohawk ·ttlcs,\ states: Drama Festival and Institute of ··We ntcd calmly to asses.s the the Theatre on the campus for next human worth of f1aternities in fun- summer, it was reported by Messrs. damental values before we consider Edward L. Carroll and Milton M. anywhere their aba;ndonment. Be- Enzer who reprec;ented Union at ca.u::>e one generation of inexpe1i- the National Theatre Conference at enced undeqgt actuates does not rec- ~ale University during the week- ognize th\ :;vii itual nout ishruent ot end. fratermtie,;, It tloe:; uot follow that The 250 delegates to the confer· educat.onal leade1,; should throw up ence coming from as far away as Lheu· hand:; Ill de:; pair and dose California and Alabama exp1 es:;cd them out. one unanimous sentiment: If \'he '\Attack on fraternities can pro- 'theatre is to attain the standards ceed from three source~>; the out- of the other fine a1ts and pi ofc,; slUe world, lhe student bo<Lt:s ant! :;ions the colleges and univc1 sities the college administlations. wll have to adopt it within its cur- '\The attitude uf :,tuuent bodies is liculum as it has the other ar.ts by far the mo;;l imp01tant; if stu- lt was for thi~ 1eason that the denta conclude that they a1 c nox- Union delegates were kept busy iou:o or uo>des:o and do not want to answering lJ.Uestions as to how join them, they will speedily die of Union was going to effect this ::;tarvauon. cultu.ral undertaking in the sum- \.l!'ew col.lege administl·ators wili we 1 · under the direction of Mr. and set out :ouddenly to c1 ush fratern- Mts. Coburn and Dr. Thomas H. it1es by direct methuds. Few could Dickinson. The delegute>s had con1fortably lodge and feed all the lea1ned of the summer venture frate1·mty students if the houses !rum newspaper accounts and from were abolished. Few could provide the Theati\e Arts Monthly, With college resourceo> so rich a so- Walter Pritchard Eaton, famous cia! hfe a:o member:o of the bette! theatre critic, author of many Ii'aternities now enjoy. ·books on the theatre, and teacher \Most executives realize that fra- of .playwrighting at the Yale De- termties have high potentialities of Parlmcnt of Drama, declared that excellence if they and the college since the first announcement he work well together. The fruitful had planned to vtisit the campus to course is clearly to mark these pos- see the Festival plays. He may slble excellencies and encourage lectu.re to the students, in addition. them, rathei' than to worry about Lee Simonson, scenic designer defects. and director of the Theatre Guild \The well-conducted chapter of New York and world known for house is a moral gymnasium where his original stage designs and is prescribed the dally exercise of theatre architecture, was another the virtues of helpfulness which, who not only gave approval but well developed, the graduate will agreed to deliver one of the tp,~e with him a;nd apply in the re- lectut\e.s. He plans to motor down lations of the larger life outside. from. his summer home in Lake \Probably fraternities help schol- Champlain to see the Festival per- arship as much as they hinder it. formances. Naturally, fraternity men take a Alexander Dean, director of the large part in the public affairs of Yale University Theatre, declared the cpllege; they are more socially Union College was ideally situated minded. There is, however; nothing for a summer drama festival and in fraternity life that prevents high offered many suggestions in the distinction in academi<l studies. operation of the Institute. \At Union College, for example, Stanley R. McCandless, the great- we have just elected eight men to est .authority on stage lighting in Phi Beta Kappa out of a class of America will ,be another of the 163, and seven of the eight are fra- Theatre's great who will viait the ternity men.\ cam.pus this summer for a lecture Prog1·ess Is Betterment Oeclares Dr. John Mal'ch and to see the Festival plays, and especially the new stage lighting equipment of the General Electric Company which will be tried out on the campus. part from the ,campus eai\ly Friday happiness ai\e all attained ·by the morning and will return to Sche- sense of humility,\ declared Dr. nectady early Monday morning. .Ne1buhr. \A capacity for Jove and At 11.15 o'clock Thornton \V. understanding is a result or humil- Whipple, student leader, will direct ity. The only wan Wllo can fut'glve the club at Oneonta Normal School, a foe i:; one who i;; not whully 1 ight- at the regular chapel exercio>eo>. eous, for a simllar evil or under- The club will sing three numbers, standing m=t be in the 11ature ol not yet announced. After lunch at the forgiver.\ the Normal School, the club will ---•0--- again embark, this time to Elmira, where they will give a concert that night under the auspices of the .llumni association of Elmira. ·Garnet Goblins To Play The Garnet Goblins, college dance orche:otra, increalling in pop- ularity by virtue of their succes~­ ful :;eries of supper dance::> at the riotel Van Curl~r, here, have made anangements to have another band take its place at the hotel Satur- day night, and will accompany the glee club thi;; weekend, playing in .IJ:lmira on Friday night and Bing- hamton on 8atu1·day night. The orchestra w1ll ·ue accompanied by 1ts vocalist, Mill::> Evelyn Cole. After the concert and dance in Elmira Friday night, the club will take a few hours of much deserved. rest and will prepare for its concert in Elmira the following afternoon. Following this appearance the club will begin its homeward swing, ar- riving in Binghamton at dinner time. A concert and dance will be held at the Monday Afternoon Clubhouse Saturday night under the auspices of the Theta Sigma Sorority and the Binghamton Alumni Association. Three appearances are scheduled for Sunday church services in Binghamton and vicinity. At 9:4.) a. m. the club will sing in Endicott; in the afternoon at Cortland and that evening at Binghamton where the singel's will assist Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh who will give an organ r~cital. Following this appearance the club will return to Schenectady where the students will resume their studies. This week's trip will bring both the student leader and the student (Continued on Page 4) Sttb-Freshmen Will View Science Demonstrations When the sub-freshmen visit Union College on March 22, the Physics and Chemistry departments will have various exhibits and de- monstrations prepared· for them, it was announced today by the pro- fessors in charge of the exhibitions of their departments, Dr. Peter I. Wold, professor of physics, and Dr. Charles B. Hurd, professor of chem- istry. Locomotive Must Fit Varied Needs Tht-ee Types Are Designed l!'or Different Sit11ations In Railway Service The future of the locomotive wa~ di;;cuso>ed briefly Sutu1'day morn- ing in daily assembly by Mr. J. G. Blunt, chief me-chanical enginee1 for the American Locomotive Com- pany. \The three general types of wcomotives in use on American railway systems, narnely, steam, electric, and internal comobustion, each have infinite structural varia- tions and are designed to fit into varying economic and right-of-way conditions,' declared Mr. Blunt. Although in 1907 autho1 itative pre- diction was w.ade that the 47,000 ;.;tearu locomotive;; in this country would be replaced by elecirics, 60,000 steam locomotiveij have since then been built,\ Mr. Blunt said. '\Experience emphasizes in 110 un- certain tune the fallacy of such pre- diction.;;, Any new type that is able to gain a foothold surely has back of it some substantial ad- vantages.\ Mr. Blunt compared the struct- ural features of the three main types of modern locomotives, point- ing out the economic advantages in running of the steam engine over that of the internal o:;ombustion lQ(!omotive. E:e .said. .. The steam locomotive has the advantages of low first cost and the simplest most efficient means of applying its full power at any locomotive speed.\ For the electric engine there ia a particular a(iyantage in its use in confined areas, such as, tunnels, subways, and the like and in area.s of great traffic density. \The fle:xtbility of transfer from one location to another as traffic conditions requii·e\ in a locomotive is the great need in n1odern trains. Mr. Blunt IJ?redicted that the in- ternal combustion train would take a prominent place ih the future because of rapid progress that hat~ been made recently In the use of lightweight articulated stream lined trains. The student body received with applause the reading of a proposed amendment concerning lho Student Council elections :presented by George Stroebel '35. in student meeting yesterday morning as a partial report of the <:ommittee re- cently appointed to investigate the subject. As William Waldron '35, ex- plained after the motion had been read in detail, the comDJittee was not able lo agree as a Vihule w itlt all ph·a~c~ of th<> qup,.;tion, and did not consider that Stroebel's pro- posal would approach the ideal of 100 per cent democracy, 01 elimi- nate \Deals.\ The first section of ,(he proposed amendment provides that the Stu- dent Council shall consist of eight members of the sen1or class, fiv~ members of the junio1· class. four members of the sophomore class, and two members of thE freshman ·class, to be 'known as \he boards of the respective classes_ Council To !iluJ<g~st Mrn The second .part of the propo~<al amends Article IV and Am.endment I of the constitution to nmintain ~he preferential system, and out- going council members are per- mitted to sUg!;est \a rc>nsonabiP number of men as candidates for membership to their re~pecth·c boards.\ As many 'blnnk \Pfl<'es are to left upon the ballot slips R-\ there are members on thr lJnard, thus allowing any student: to vote for a complete board <lf hi>~ own choice. The men receiving the highest numb~r of vote~ for l'll~h board are elected. Petitions For Nominati111g Mf'Ptin~rs An important section of the amendment ,provides t hn t a p?ti- .tion signed .by twenty-fi VP m0mbers of any cla~s may IH• pro!'l~nted to the council to compE'I that b-ody to hold an open meeting :for the pur~ pose of nominating CF.Indidates to their boai\d of the Student Council. The names so propo9e'<l are to be placed on the ballots· along with those suggested by- the outgoing council and are to be designated as haVing been chosen \by direct stu- dent vote.\ These ballots will be used in voting, which is to take place in Memorial Cha..pel on or be- fore the fii\st Monda::y pi\eceding Moving-Up Day. In response to a question from the chair, Seymour Hor-owitz '35, one of the committee, explained that it was intended that there sho~ld be no \caryY·~>vers an entirely new board being elected ·eacb year. In accordance with .Article VI of the constitution, Stroebel attached a proviso to the proposed amend- ment, requesting that it be made a part of the constitution by a two- thirds vo!e of the Student Body, an opportmnty fol' whieh shculd be provided at a regular ..:hapel period in the near future_ President Semet·ad requested a. motion for adjournmen.t at this time, and intimated t!Lat the matte!'\ would. be open for further report of committee members and discussion at the next regular student .body meeting. \Progress is betterment, a human rather than a scientific word.\ said Dr. John L. March. professor of psychology. who addressed the stu~ dents in daily assembly this morn- ing. The -only question which arises, he added. is just who is to judge what is to be ca:Ued \.better.\ Al- though there are always some peo- ple who think ideal uonditions exist- ed in the past. it is the majority of the people who must decide whether The Union College Bulletin an- nouncing the Mohawk Drama Festival and Institute '()f the The- atre, is now going t() press and will 'be ready fol' distri•bution within tw() weeks. Requests fer such bul- letins should ,be made to Mr. Enzer, ~--o--- W old to Investigate New Hypothesis On Universe In the physics ·building, the sub- freshmen wil spend their alloted time of 2Q minutes viewing demon- strations with a large, powerful, electro-magnet. There will also be on ex.hibition a large Michelson interferometel', now being built, which will carry on experiments on the velocity of light. This instru- ment is so sensitive that it can de- tect ehai\\ges qf a;bout one part in one million. The sub-freshmen will also view in operation a milicant oil apparatus by which the charge on an electron can ,be Il;leasured. Union Celebrates 140thAnniversargJ With No Change in Routine F()r Dag progress has been made A dead universe in two billion \I 1ike people the way they ai\\€,\ years! concluded Dr. March. commentirtg That may 'be one of the conclu- on reformers who try to pass laws .sions of a new physical hypothesis for what they consider the improve- advanced 1 by Dr. Peter I. Wold, ment of man and then depend on head of the physics faculty at a: militant police system to force Union College in a paper published men to act in contradiction to l1U- in the current issue of The Phys-- man nature. Communistic and so- ical Review on \The Redward cialistic theories which hope to Shift of Speatral Lines of Nebulae.\ reach a. perfect state can never. Since all the elements have cer~ completely sucaeed, he continued, tain fixed lines when theil' spec~ for the human element ds the domi~ trum Is examined, it has been pos- nant factor. · (Continued on Page 4) In the chemistry, small groups of sub-freshmen will be able to act- ually perform experiments. There will 'be some demonstrations shown to them and some of the present research students will show them swan chemical experiments and exhibit the work which they have done In the department. Very quietly and equally efrec- tivelyUnion yesterday- ()elebrated the 140th anniversary of its found- ing in \Old Dorp-now the modern industrial city of Schenectady. There were no unusual .public cere- monies to mai\k the oooasion, Presi- dent Dixon Ryan Fox merely men- tioned the clrcilmsta11ce of the or~ ga~ization, founding and naming of Umon College in the daily .assembly exercises in the Memorial Chapel today, and Mr. James Brewster li- brarian arranged an ex:h[bition' of the documents relating to tbe be- . ginning of the first college chai\ter- ed after New York became a state. According to the original docu- ments on exhibition, Union College did not represent the request of one locality only, nor .of ()ne church alone. It did not have its origin in the gift of one individual whose name would be pe1'petuated as the founder of the college. It was in- stead, the voice of the people raJsed for the common weBJl. asking the state to meet a public need of the then fi\ontier counties. It was from this union of races, churches, and (Continued on Page 3) I I I '' I l \ . ! I I, I I

\ :'! .. : i ,I. ,,· Two THE CONGORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1935 WILL CLASS OF 1935 DO SOMETHING? ~ irn.s.is > lis~=~e~:l t::se~~e;::a::r e;:~~~~~\:eass~~~~ ', Fa r r a g 0 I :· .. , ___ ._~_y_·~_!_~_c_s_~_AR_e;;;;;D;~-~-~-:;;;;;;;;;;;~ class to do semething original. As is the. , . - custon1, the senior class l1as assun1ed a lacka- !,;;;;;;===· =~ ==;;;;;;;===;;;;;;;=================;;'..~ The Vienna ·choir boys} although ..:~ · · 1 tt't d d d' d d Having impersonated other en• And other little ills like weasels. their average age IJ:> :J;mt twelve ~c.talSlca a 1 U e an lSregar e · a sugges- ergetic e111tertainers in this n.ews\ You~d notice God, if you sat nex.' years, are truly accomplished, sing- \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FouNDED 1877 Sole and Exdusive National Aclvertislng Repre- sentative, :\:ational Ad;·ertioing SerYice, Inc., 11 We~t 4~nd St .. N. Y. C .. 400 No . .;Iichigan Ave., Chicagu, llllnuis. The official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesdays and Fridays throughout the college year, except during Christmas and spring recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press,. 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 441U Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Senior Board Clemens F. Hathaway .......... Editor-in-Chief Clli Psi Loclge-4-6;;27 Joseph A. Woolman .......... Managing Editor Kappa Nu House-4-7331 William H. Fitzgerald ...... Business Manager 11e1 ta l'psllon Houol~·!· ~~~~2 Milton A. Berger., .............. Sports Editor Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Thornton W. Whipple .. , .. Circulation Manager Clli Poi Loc1ge-4-GG27 ASSOCIATE EDITORS John D. Anderson Albert H. Stevenson Robert C. North VanVechten Trumbull Wallace T. Foote Sophomore Boa1·d M. Bedell S. R. Cohen F. Feldman W. Ferguson Assistant Editors F. Gage C. Garrison G. Haskell W. Horstmann R. Passenger R. Snyder N. Stewart Issue Editor ....•.•..•.. John D. Anderson Assistant Issue Editors R. Passeng.er N. Stewart Tuesday, February 26, 1935 HAPPY BIRTHDAY One hundred and forty years ago yester- day the legislature of the state of New York granted a charter for the founding of Union College in Schenectady. Today, the college, near-ly as old as the republic in which it re- pose.s, is facing a brilliant future, under a brilliant leader who is guiding the destiny of the institution most carefully, with the greatest of wisdom. The mere fact that a college has lived for tion that would help to put the class on rec- sheet, we will not trouble to in- me, ers. Such ex:quisite tonal quality . . :traduce ourself. Long ago is far. That day hy day each chap!) I and aosolute masterYl Of techniq.ue ord as the fust one Ill many yea:rs to .organ- 'away, or ·Farrag<> is long away, or: speaker , is not to be expected ln 1 so young· a ize and do .sotnething constructive for Union something. Grows poorer, sicker, worse, and group. Their perfortna:nce would * * * weaker. , have been just as c·reditab!e had College. H. G. Wells in his autobiography (And here we thank you, God, for they ·been a chorus of'·opera singers. Every ,seniol' expects to be 'touched' by remarks very perspicaciously that, Prex.y!) Happily, they do not confine them- ''Our ·God is a;n amoosing God.\ And, God, one other little fault selves to the singing of religious the alumni gift fund after he receives his Seizing that as our text this week,, T6 which you ought to ca:ll a halt, music, for their program was com- d iplon1a. 111any of the m.embers of the class we elabomte: • The tendency of the campus wits., posed chiefly ·of secular music. .J.I To columnize their mental wits. ** These versafile boys can a;lso do of 1935 will contribute to this worthy cause Oh, God, you're usually kind And, God, why haven't you looked some creditable acting, and their · t t f th f d f 1 Anr highly entertain:fng. into performances have an astounding In par repayrnen 01' e our won er U The gratitude we have in mind. This matter of folks who get rooked amount of finesse. years they have spent on Union's beautiful We wil not be restraining. into The singers opened rather weakly Sitting next to the people in .class by giving the \Star Spangled Ban- campus. Our suggestion was merely that the We thank you, God, in Februaray, Who co·py the test. You flunk; ner.\ This song is not exactly class vote its contribution to the alumni gift • That you stopped the winds that they pass. adapted to a foreign accent, nor is swamp us. it a choral song. The boys imme- fund to one purpose, whether it be toward we thank you for the F. E. R. A. Yet, God, you are a kindly Zeus diately redeemed themselves, how- the purchase of books for the library or to- That cleans some snow from off the A most benign Jehovah, ever, ,by excellent renditions of \0 campus. To you, oh gentle Jupiter Salutaris Hostia,\ by Nascus. and ward the creation of a scholarship, or any, We thank you for all benefits I give myself quite ovah, \In Feria v. Maj. Hebd\ one of da other necessity on the camnus. Although they come in little bits. And pray, amid this verbal con- Palestrina~s better-known works. .r:' We than·k you for initiation gestion The last of these ancient religious There is a crying need for more scholar- Despite the moral indignation · For plenty of bolts and a good pieces, \Repleti sunt omnes,\ ·by h . · C 11 h 11 l'b · Of our friend of Middlesex:. digestion. Gallus, was exceptionally well done, S Ips at Umon • 0 ege; t e CO ege l rary lS, We thank you, God, for Philipe * * ~ and was encored in rel)IY to the at present, lacking in sufficient equipment Morris Our excellent and indefatiga·ble tremendous applause of the audi- Although there're never any for us * friend, Umgotteswillen Donnerwet- ence. for a college ·Of 800 students; there are We thank you, God, with bended ter, sends us word that a certain The second part of the program countless other necessities on the campus, all necks bewhiskered gentleman of the was occupied entirely with a short F'or aU our friends, the fa;culty- British Isles has written a new operetta, done with the boys in within the reach of the financial resom~ces Because that's tactful policy. play. Brooks Atkinson and Percy costume. This little comic opera, of any one class. There is virtue in worth- Hammond disap.prove. Just give \Der Hausliche Krieg,\ by Franz Oh, God, you're usually kind 'em Hell, Bernard, give 'em Hell! s h b 'all d h 'l · ' ]'t C t 'nl tl d ' ' t · · . Our friend also remarks that since c u ert, wa,s especl Y arrange W 1 e origllla 1 y. er a1 · Y le a miniS ra- And highly entertammg. for the choir boys, :;unong whom h art The gratitude we have in mind the academic world is a l'efuge for s h b rt h' If t f\ f tion would applaud such a move on t e P w 'II t b t · · eccentric1'ty we needn't be alarmed c u e lmse spen Ive years 0 f h I f 1935 D th . · 1 e Wl no e res rammg. at what are commonly known as his youth. o t e c ass o . o some mg, semors · The last part o'f the· program was Yet we remark, Oh, Deity, . \campus types.\ That certain things there are that * * * built solely of secular music, and be * Exigencies of the rhyme, not a the fine ability ·of the choir boys DAMAGING, IF ADOPTED IN FULL The report of the committee investigating the systems of nominations which would be applicable to the Student Council reflects Not calculated quite to please us, hint. WillS still more apparent. First they Such as this plague of German **No reflection upon the ,present sang Schubert's \Serenade a piece measles. scribbler is. intended~ F. H. that needs no mention. The seren- ade was followed by two very well Middlesex Notes credit on the members of the committee for. we are hourly ex:pecting news of their foresightedness in recommending a re- the sudden demise flf Mr. Fred Feldman, now that his column has duction in the senior board of the council and been quoted .by the Albany Times· · · tl t t' f th · · Union, one of Mr. Hearst's brain- mcreasmg 1e represen a 10n O e JUlliOr children. The capitalizations are and sophomore boards. The committee has Mr. Hearst's. also carefully considered the wisdom of Ieav- Here are some excerpts from the editorials in the same paper: ing a certain amount of responsibility in the \AMERICANrSM means initia- hands of the Student Council in the matter tive and voluntary cooperation. of nominations. Iiv!.~ERICANISM is live and let Nevertheless, we feel that the intended \LEST WE FORGET: compromise by permitting· pe1·sonal choices The most precious thing in the h world is the liberty guaranteed by on the ballots is a moral victory for t ose democratic institutions, of which who are anxious to do away with any form America is the admitted represent- ative. of Student Council control of the nomina- IT IS THE oNE THING woRTH tions. If this report is adopted in full it is FIGHTING FOR. I f h · 't bl d 1 t 't Let us here highly resolve on this possib e or t e mev1 a e ea 0 weave 1 s day <Washington's .birthday) to re- way into the elections. There are limits to affirm ·our AMERICANISM by democracy \'lll.Ch callTIOt be put into practice sweeping the rats out of our house \ -Communist and Fascist rats. on a small college cmnpus. America is doomed if it seeks to nrhat is thel'e to prevent a g-roup from se- superimpose on its own natural vv ~ self a borrowed self. lecting its ovvn slate and electing whomsoever Europe is SENILITY and SLAV- it pleases? It has been done in the past and ERY. America is YOUTH and LIBERTY. can be done again. lt is possible, although This is a good day to become re- we frankly admit not entirely probable, that acquainted with AMERICA-LEST WE FORGET! if this report is accepted in full, for a Stu- \There has been submitted to the done •pieces: \W·ach auf,\ by Secret Service Bureau I Brahms, and \Sizilianisches Jagd- lied,\ by Emmer. The last number, Strauss's Geschidter a.us dem Wien- erwald, was especially adapted for ~-------------• the beautiful tonal qualities of the Hell Week has come and gone leaving the Froshies polishing their new pins and furtively slipping their mates the grip. It certainly is great to enter man's estate. * * * The Gay Bucks on the campus were so .busy this .past week-end showing the Freshmen THE LIGHT that the old town was hardly its scintillating self. Even the Chi Psis failed to live up to their maudlin reputation. * * * Tony's was more like a flop- house .than the rendezvous of light- hearted youths. Even Brother Cory was not hls usual sparkling self. Incidently this worthy's new yell is-Menhetten! Menhetten! Menhetten! * * * Bi'ble grades for the hflckey stars seem to vary inversely with the temperature. * * * It seems that some of the A. D's had isolated a case of measles in South College. On the door nex.t morning appeared this sign- \Measles Case. The lowest Frat on the Campus.\ It's nice to hear from the other half. boys' voices, and it was done as well, if not better than any other song on the progra:m. The audience would not let the boys go until they sang two encores. MUSIC By TONY SHARPE Between trying to listen to Alex. Woollcott and tryi11og to .s·tave <lff a real old-fwlhioned, gnawing hunger we'll attempt once more to set down our usual random jottings, or perhaps jot down our usual, set randoms-oh well!! dent Council to be elected composed entirely state department by the Congress- system is in vogue in this nation. During of nle!1 !lot llOinl'nated by the retiring- Stu- ional committee investigating un- - American activities the presence in near-ly a century and a half indicates that it will last as long as the present educational * * * Philip M<Qrris Awards for Achieve- ment. Chi Psi-For keeping the mouths of part of their house closed last week. A real achive- ment f<>r a Chi Psi. Tomorrow night the Vienna Choir Boys will have paid us a visit and just between you and us and Payne Gate, we believe they'll ·be worth going to hear. They sang at T<lwn Hall in New York last night and what's g<lod enough for Manhattan ought to he good enough for us. We weren't wrong about Dalies Frantz were we?~nd we kept beautifully silent about the Nevin~ Williams orgy, didn't we? We won't say that you can publicly stone us if the boys aren't good, but unless their voices have changed since last year when we beard them, we promise you some fine singing. The two violinists who were in chapel Friday played with Dr. Tid- marsh Sun·day afternoon and we were more than glad to hear them. They both have sound technique and a sense of musicianship which one would not expect from Schenec- tady or any other city of its size. The Boccherini Sonata, with the org.an as a colorful background is the nearest thing to a miniature symphony we have ever heard. those long years there have been as many dark days as there have been lJr-ight ones. dent Council. Ostensibly the Student this country of a Communist leader who calls himself \THE LENIN OF Council nominates the best men f'1·om each AMERICA.\ The tl·adition built up around the glamorous caree1· of the immo1·tnl Eliphalet Nott; the class for the succeeding council. We stand Ex Assemblyman Phelps Phelps by the past record of the council and feel sa!gn~cc~~tl~h~ve~~~te ~~~~ng to that there is no cattse for immedia.te alarm come under my observation in the founding of the first Greek letter fraternity, that a reversal in this practice will occur. f~:;/~a;v~r b~~~e ~~ t~i~gR~~: followed later by five others that saw their The sy~tem of petitions for open hearing-s TIONS TO RUSSIA'.\ * * • lJirihs !Iel'e; out of the rough and into the 011 any given man is sufficient for those who fairway under Dr. Charles Alexander Rich- at·e not ~me that the given man \Viii be nom- mond; the creation of a lJrand new system of education in the form of the Union Plan two inated. Thnt, to us, seE'ms to be sufficient compromise, especially when the record of the council in making these nominations has been so noteworthy. years ago, and the careful execution of this plan by the present administrative officers; We laud the abolition of the carry-overs; all these al'G significant chapters in the re- the student body has the right to assume cording of the one hundred forty years of that at least three men from one council will Cllpping from a movie magazine -It was on the set where both were preparing in the same movie that AI Joloon a:nd Ruby Keeler stepped out of character just for a second and became man and wife . . . And O!lo the subject of movies, The Colgate Y. M. C. A. is sponsor- ing movies at that school now, The first week they showed \The Notor- ious Gentleman\ and followed it closely with \Transient Lady.\ * * • Union's life. be reelected, thus giving the council the social note from Agnes Scott Thousands of sons of Union College have a:mount of continuity now assured. By abol- c~~~~:·:O:~~uria~~·hters of Agnes n-one out into the \Vorld and made successes ishing the carry-overs, the student hody is Scott were guests at the last reg- 6 • th t 't t ] ct th ·ee more ular Iuncheo111 meeting of the f th I th . th l't f Q'Iven e oppor. um y o e e I M d o emse ves us provm(}' e qua 1 y o ~ Rotary Club of Atlanta, on ay, . ' \\ · . men. That is one element of democracy February 18. The program, under the college Itself. Thousands more Will pass h' h h ld b t t th the direction <()f the Daughters Lh . h th t I d 'll t 1 th . w IC s ou e ex an on e campus. Club, was devoted to Agnes Scott L roug . ese por a s an w1 a <e e1r 0 th h 1 . h · ·t f th · · · · h b k ' n e W 0 e, owever, 111 Spl e 0 e and the meaning of Founder's Day. respective places 111 society with t e ac - d']' t k f1 t d b th 'tt \The program was opened by d t h '11 h · d 1 I 1gen WOI' re ec e Y e comm1 ee Susan Turner wh<> gave the weeltly gT0Uil s ey WI ave receive 1ere. t f I th t 'f d t d . f 11 th Sunshine Report of the club. The . repor , we ee a 1 a op e m u , e ~s has happened ~n the past, we are entire system would be damaging. It is so r:r~;~:f~/fJ~~fse~f blo~~:;ea~~~! quietly obserVIng thi<s day-a day that confusing that it would involve a vast daughters of Rotarians saw these should w.arm t~e hearts of everyone con- amount of extra work for the retiring Stu- ~~~~s ·b~~~~~fi~~o~e t~~r \~a;~e;d.~ nected with Umon College. We suggest that d t Cou . 1 There is nothiTIO' to compeh- ship,\ Mary Jane Tigert, on t 'b t b 'd th 11 · th f t en · ncl. \' \Service and Eugenia Syms on some n u e e pal . ,'e co ege ~n e u ure sate for the extra work. Deals would crop \World Fellowship.\ Martha Peake and that due.recogmtion be. given on .the up once ~ore on the camnus and we would Brown explained the meaning of t th d Th t f h ~.. .t' February 22 to Agnes Scott, and campus o IS ay. • en, 111 rue . ~s IOn, thereby revert ounselves to the turbulent Esther Byrnes gave a short talk on every loyal son of Umon may say, Many days whe1i JJOlitical pressure was needed for ~~e t~~n~~ea~:~!~~i~~~~!. of life happy returns of the day.\ election to any office. s. R. c. Psi U-For keeping their roof on during Bro. Cory's sojourn. Delta Phi-Their name came out <Qf the hat first. Notes On Our Contemporaries Conferences There are more than 60 football conferences in the United States. • • A Mere Nothing • Exactly 115 football players have been killed playing football in the United States in the last four years. Only 16 were killed in college games or practice for college games. • Honesty Plus • • A surplus of $24,527 was reported ·bY the Princeton University (N. J.) athletic association fo1• the fiscal year 1933-1934. • Night Football • • Temple University (Philadelphia, Pa.) will continue its policy of play- ing night football games during the coming season. • • Cheek the Mental • Only one out of 1,551 students en- tering this term at the College of the City of New York were denied admission after ex.aminations be- cause of physical defects. • • The Lightweights • The average weight of the 1916 Hamilton College football team was 150 pounds. The backfield avel'- aged 142% and the line 154. Last Saturday being Handel's birthday Dr. Tidmarsh played his Bouree, Largo from 'Xerxes,' Largo in E and his Water Music. The latter was composed in honor of the fuzzy-witted King George I <>f England. George came into power at the height of Handel's career as court musician, and when the king began to clean house Handel found himself on the wrong side of the fence. So to apple polish, he com- posed the Water Music, hired a huge band to play it in front of kingie's barge which was anchored in the Thames, the old boy being on one of his monthly toots. He was very flattered and the clever Handel res'd all his back pay. While the music isn't the ·best it is very inter- esting to listen to. Rameau's Gavotte and Bocche- rlni's Minuet supplied all the courtly atmosphere we ct;mld stand in one program, althoug.h.both have unden.ialble charm. Perhaps you re- member the Bach Fugue from DaJies Frantz's progra;m. This re- markable fugue certainly tax.es the ability of the most skilled per- former, but we here remark proudly that Dr. Tidmarsh, as usual came through unscathed, Next week, John K. Zorian, or- ganist at st. Johns will be guest organist. Don't forget the Roch- ester Symphony Wed. at 4:30 ove-r WABC-Minneapolis .Symphony on Fri. at 3:15-Richard B<>nelli Sat. at 9:00 over WABC and Eugene Ormandy again at 10:00 over the same station, I I A be in g~ m se ar M st a U: d< oi E C! c s 3! E t< c ' f

ew i\ER although 1t twelve >hed .sing- d quality techniq.ue D young a ce would table had :'a singers. 'ine them- religious was com- lr music. 1 also do and their stounding ,er weakly gled Ban- t exactly mt, nor is >ys imme- lves, ·how- ms of \0 LSCUS. and one of da n works. ; religious nnes,\ by well done, >ly to the the audi- l program ch a short boys in 1ic opera, by Franz arranged ng whom ·e years of >gram was msic, and :hoir boys First they e,\ a piece rhe seren- very well auf,\ by hes Jagd- lt number, !em Wien- iapted for Jes of the 1 done as any other e audience until they ;] 1n to Alex. s·tave <lff gnawing :e more to n jottings, usual, set mna Choir . visit and md Payne ·be worth gat Town night and M:anhattan rh for us. >ut Dalies we kept :he Nevin~ we? We a publicly :good, but ~ changed we heard some fine o were in h Dr. Tid- a and we 1ear them. technique 1hip which n Schenec- >f its size. with the tground is miniature 1eard. Handel's played his •es,' Largo usic. The mor of the rge I of into power 1 career as []; the king ndel found ide of the 1, he com- :, hired a 1 front of 1 anchored y being on ;, He was ~er Handel While the very inter- d Bocch~ all the ould stand both have tpsyou re- .gue from This re- . taxes the tilled per- fk pr<ludly ISUal came ~orian, or- l be guest the Roch- : 4:30 over ncphony on onelli Sat. 1d Eugene ~ over the Dutchmen To Meet Amherst In Quest For Eleventh Win ~------------------~---- Amherst Has Won Eight;: Handed First Defeat · By Wesleyan Tomorrow · night the varsity besketball team will meet Amherst in the ·last intercollegiate home game of the season. The Dutch-' men will invade Troy for their second R. P. I. victory Saturday· and will end the 1934-35 campaign March 9 against the Alumni. Undefeated in their first eight, starts of the season, Amherst met· a tart!j.r in Wesleyan last Saturday, the ensuing one-point margin of defeat wi.lping. out their claim as the. only undefeated team of the East.. Early in January Union easily over- came Wesleyan, 45 to 26. The- Amherst Record The Lord .Jeffs have defeated Clark, 45 to 17; Trinity, 27 to 23; Swarthmore, 38 to 30; Mass. State, 39 to 27; Springfield, 31 to 25; Harvard, Z9 to 26; Mass. State, 23 to 19; and Williams, 40 to 25. The starting lineup against Union will probably be the 13ame that has clicked so well all year. Jaclt Coey, a sophomore who is the high scorer this .season, will start at center. Diminutive \Tink\ Turner, im;tru- mental in the offense and: noted for tricky floor· work and long· shoot- ing, and aggressiVe George Fusco, co-captain last year and steadying influence on the team, will be at the forward .positions. Captain Moses at Guard The guards ave Dave Holmes, dependable sophomore dark horse, who did not :play basketball his freshman year, and Bdb Moses, C8J}ltain of the team. Jim Ramey, sophomore ace, Reider, another sophomore who has shown up well on the varsity, Murray Green, a dependable guard with two years' experience, and Rae Malcolm, sub- stitute center, head the reserves. Has Fight On Hands VAN WALDRON, CENTER • THE CONOORDIENSlS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1935 rr~~~~!!='~!!='!!='~~~======~=:~ 1 Students Investigating Street Lighting Problem SPORT SLIDES By MIL TON A. ~BERGER A J.ine from O'Neill's play, \The Hairy Ape,\ produ·ced· here last year, was the cause of one of the bitterest verbal ·battles eve!' wage<! on the campus here. That line was, you will remember, the startling.statement 'that \All engineers is yellow!\ i don't intend to reopen the feud, but mean merely to indicate my belief that the statement is entirely un- founded. After a most unsuccessful sports week-end, a columnist in . the \Rensselaer Polytechnic\ was courageous and outspoken enough to print the following: •qt is usually after one of these disastrous week-ends of spot1s that some start to crlticlze the athletic policy here on ·the Hill. Suggested remedies always inClude everything from the abolition of ·intercollegiate .sports to new ooaches and salaried players. 'Tl1ese ·same critics always forget that those playing on the field are the reason for having teams. Our. pa.rents are investing their money in the prospects of a great engineering future for us, not in a \tramp- athletic\ present. A few paid muscle men should not compete in RPI stadiums on the pockets of a thousand students. N eithel\ should we discontinue sports· because it is impossible to build up a.n.enviable record of successive victories over other schools. The teams a.re here to benefit those who care to take advantage of that opp<H!tWlity to engage in athletic activities.\ It would have been easier .for the writer to have said nothing, thereby not committing his ·paper to a definite policy ·On the question of subsidizing athletes. The alumni would have liked him and the paper better and perhaps give it a hand (the \Polytechnic unlike \'The Con- cordiensis,'' has no blanket tax and exists on the sale of su:bscr.iptions.) But. this engineer was not yellow, for he undoubtedly kno'WS .that the ·only thing that he can do when his big university friends ask him \What happened .to RPI's football team? is simply to say \We don't subsidize athletes.' A .group of n.fne students who are ' st~;~dying the effect of street and • 'highway lig-hting upon the auto- .' mobile safety problem in connec- tion with the project now .being car- ried on in the Social Studies 10 course on method~ and problems, vi:>ited the Illuminating Laborator- ies of the General Electric Com- pany, Wednesday afternoon. They were received by an official of the company and were shown a model of the exper.imen t now be- ing conducted on Van Gysling av- ·enue. They were also addressed 'by Mr. Dudley Digges, one of the fore- most authorities in the country on the lighting .phase of the safety problem. Additional meetings will be held in the General Electric la·bot·atory, and it is expected that Mr. Digges will address the entire course in Social Studies 10 on the subject at an early date. Formerly ED'S CHARLES' The Official Union Col!ege Barber for the past 24 yeavs. Ask any upper classmen, they know. H operators. Schenectady's greatest barber. COR, STATE .AND BROaDWAY Intramural Basketball Leagues Gazette Press Tonight 7:3o-Theta Delta Chi vs. Alpha Phi 'Delta. 8:3Q-Kappa Nu vs. Phi Delta Theta. CHEMISTRY CLlJB MEETING Dr. J'. G. Lutz will speak at the meeting of the Chemistry Club t<l- night at 7:45. Three PSYCHOLOGY CUffi 'T() KEF.:T Dr. Ernest M. Ligon will be the speaker at the meeting of the Psy- chology Club tonigtlt at 7:<10 in North College. • THE NEW ·DE·NTISTRY. A Phase of Prevetllive llledici1Je: College Men find ·in it unusual • opportunities for a career HARVARD UNIVERSITY DENTAL SC,HOO'L A competent course of prcpamtion for , tbe dental profession. A ·~class A'' School. Write for ratalogue. · LEROY M.S. ~liNER, D.M ;D •• M.D., Dean Dept. 27, 138 Lonowotld Ave.,.Boston,·Mass. you can draw with your pet :pen AND the right drawing ink-that's Higgin~>', of course -right for color-right for pen -right for brush, 16 Waterproof Color&, Water- proof end Oenerallsoluble when dry) Blacks. CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO., Inc. 271 Ninth St. Br~oklyn, N.Y. HIGGINS' American DRAWING INKS • For the Garnet, Coach Nels Nitch- man will most likely start his regular lineup of Captain Ray McDowell and Joe Milano, forwar,ds, Van Waldron, center, and Jack Moffett and Ralph Semerad, guards. Union Celebrates Its 140th Anniversary Very Quietly Take a cigarette like CHESTERFIELD (Continued from Page 1) professions for college. that Union College derived its name. The first petition to the state legislature asking for ·a college in Schenectady was made in 1779 but the fact that no one church waos to dominate this non-sectarian college gave the Iegislatuve pause and it was not until 1795 that a charter was finally granted. The first peti- tion, the na:mes of which are re- corded, was signed by inhabitants of Albany (that included Schenec- tady then) and Tryon counties and was \the first expression in Amer- ica of a popular demand for higher education.\ While waiting for the state legis- lature to grant the charter, the pe- titioners in the meantime built and organized the Schenectady Acad- emy in 1785 and it was this insti- tution tbat became Union College ten years later. Minutes of the first meeting of the academy's board of trustees were exhibited and also the sta:te charter for the academy granted by the Regents of the Uni- versity of the State of New York eight years later. As the n·ational spirit developed in the country. it reached a climax among New York's population long before the \era of Good Feeling\ after the W at' of 1812. The increas- ing wealth of the citizen·s in up- sta>te New York resulted in more urgent and more frequent petitions for a college at Schenectady. But in January 1795 when the latest peti- tion came before the board of re- gents of the state, \it jostled against another from Albany proposing two acres for buildings and fifty thou- sa;nd dollars in money.\ John 'Taylor who had helped to obtain twenty-four subscribers' rolls of names for backing a college at Schenectady had at the last moment tried to gain the help of Stephen Van Rensselaer in locating the college at Albany. But Van Rensselaer, Ex-Governor Joseph C. Yates, Stephen N. Bayard, Nicholas Veder and other prominent citizens, headed by Dr. Dirk Romeyn, \the father of Union College.\ persuaded Philip Schuyler to vote in favor of Scheneeta:dy. Finally on February 25, 1795. General Schuyler wrote to Dr. Romeyn. pastor of the Dutch. Reformed Church here, that the charter had. been granted. Among the items on exhibition is an account by Joseph Sweetman, a members of the first graduating class of Union College, of granting of the charter: \The old brick Academy resounded with tidings of success, and. the night following the windows were well studded with candles and at a concerted signal all instantly in a blaze, the little •bell on the top of the house jingled most merrily, the interior filled with happy .boys and: the street crowded with sympathizing spec- tators. Had you been there you would have witnesed a joyful night !When the Academy was metamor- phosed Into Union College.\ You know I like that cigarette . .• I like the way it tastes ... there's plenty of taste there. Chesterfield is mild, not strong ••. and that's another thing I like in a cigarette. What's more, They Satisfy . . . and that's what I like a cigarette to d.o. I get a lot of pleasure out of Chesterfield . . . you know I like that cigarette. WEDNESDAY LILY PONS SATURDAY RICHARD BONELLI KOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA A.NI) CHORUS 9 P.M. (E. s. T.) -COLUMBLANETWORK © 193;, LIGGI!TI &M:YERST<Jn/l.cco Co,

Four Exhibit Portrays Geologic Resources Mineral Wealth of New York State Portrayed by Display Ill Ne:w Laboratory .An ·economic table representing New York State's wealth -in it.s abundant mineral natural resources is one of the interesting displays shown at the geological exhibit now open in the newly-outfitted geology lwboratory in South College. The exhibit WM prepared under the supervision of Professor Ed- ward S. C. Smith, Chairman of the staff of the field of geology, to- gether with Frederick W. Toppan, instructor, and several advanced students. The display was opened Monday afternoon and may be vis- ited every afternoon from 3 to 5 o'clock. Oils, Gases, Minerals According to the exhibit, New Y(lrk State still produces a wide vat•iety of neces.sities including oils, gases, minerals of industrial value, marble and sandstone. Specimens Illustrating the various phases of THE OONOORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1935 . . Wold- Fratet·nities-- Jordan, Frederic Stoughton, Thom,- as Ward. Glee Club- the mineral properties of earth :m.ay. be examined at tl:le exhibit. Theta Delta Chi-James W. (Continued from Page 1) Excellent airplane views of scenes' (Continued from Page 1 ) (Continued from Page 1) · McKenzie jr., Ro)lert Denzler,· manager .of the glee club to their of geological interest are on display, Ha1•low Voorpees, Cha-rles H. God- Robevt Badgley, ~J. Rpobert Doig jr,, home towns •. ,._,hippie, w· ho will do d h th t · 1 · of the· !Sible for scientists to find the ele- d d f h c R · h 1 •• an s o-w e yp1ca eroswn · a;r . A. Jo)m Haf- , . .Josep · . e1c a . ·a loarge part of the directing dur- semi-arid regions in the Wasatch ments composin:g faroff nel:llllae of. Kappa- Nu-Irving )3rownstein, Theta Nu Epsilon~Ch a ~1 e s .. illg the seven cQ;rrcert$, lives in ·Mountain.s, M well as the Hudson other solar· -systems by their lines Harrison Kp.rp, Herman Kessler, Quandt, G:eovge Barter, Walter Binghamton and will: direct the River valley, Bear Mountain Bridge, S'd L · J s· 11 Ro\·ib1'ns Ge· orge Sco•t · in the spectograph. But scientists. 1 ney . e:V\11S, · erome P,e man,. \'. • · . . ~ · ·.glee ,club. in -its first appearance m Taal Volcanoe and the Grand Can~ - Nor~an Pomerantz. ' The Pyt•amid Club~Geo:rge W. that __ city._ Eavrkes, manage~,- Uves Y on. New York State Museum Bu .. l- have observed: that these lines have. All · D 1 · An tt Eds · C Kappa Sigma-Robert Clarl~:,. en Jr., · e .evan - n~ · ·, on · ih Elmira. . letins, dating several years bac~ are shifted, an(j. !;lre still shifting to-. William Jacober, Robert ;Rap.~dne, ·Canham, Charles w .. Daley. The club pas dr!lle.ll together five a:lso on view in the antechamber. ward the red side of the spectrum. Robert Richardson, Carl R. Tra- o times weekly since the openhi.g of To explain this, some of them have haman. OIVIL SERVimil E~ATIONS the school year in September in Fluoroscope Demonstration advanc.ed the th~ory that the uni- . Lambda Chi Alpha-Zygmunt --- preparation for tl:)e major concerts The fluoroscope, an instrument' verse 1s expandmg, and that the .Szc2lombrowski Clayton Adams. Announcements of Civil Service: of the 1934-35 season. Next week which demonstrates the action of nebulae are .moving away from our; Anthony Canaie, William R<.:rbbins' el(;a!D;inations for ·the ~ollowing, ·the students will spend. four. days ultra-violet rays on the electrons galachic system. Louis Thompson · ': pos1hons have ibeen rece1ved: as-: on the campus a:nd then en tram fol' given off by fluorite, villemite, auto- M · t' t h d . . · , sistant statistical clerlt, dieti~ian, New York to begin the longest tdp nite; uranium nitrate and zinc iJUl-. any SCI en lS s, . owever, an . Phl Dc:;lta Theta-Derrick Sher- and director of typography, Any- • in recent years. This tr:ip will take P hide, presents one of the most· among them Dr. Wold, do not hold man, Wmterton Da~, Fl{)_yd . V. one wiflhin,g to .,)hvestigate the the club to New York, Freeport, spectacular demonstrations. Fossil-. with this theory. In setting a basis _Ladd; Harry Myers, Vmcent Smith. particulars- ·a,nd qualifications- may Long Island, Penn State College !zed animals which inhabited the for investigation, Dr. Wold ex- Flu Gamma Delta-J?hn M._ call at the Placement Bureau, room and Pittsburgh, Pennsylva,nia. plained the phenomenon by stat- Perry, Howard E. Sands Jr., Sher- 6 Administration building. 0 ,--~ ea1th countless years ago may be ing \If we assume that the velocity win M. Schrade. • -- seen in the display, which also in- of light is decreasing slowly with Phi Sigma Kappa-William G. PLACEME. -N-,..~~B-<UR>-· -_-_..,.~ ,..-U~NOTICE. OUTING CLUB NOTICE eludes especially constructe d t'me all through space one can '\' .I!U1 models of the movement of an ice- . 1 ' F{)rman, W-illiam Murray, Stanton ·· __ There will :JJe a meeting of the readily explain a red ward· shift on C. Hull, Edward VanAuken. A communjeation has -been re- • \'\·ecut 1 ·ve com-m 1 ·ttee -of the out1'ng sheet, the development of a volcano, the spect\um p\oportional to our \\\\ and the formation of rivers and val- L L Psi Upsilon-Edmond R. Arun- ceived from L. Bamberger and Club tonight :at 7:SO o'clock in distance from the light source.\ dell, Philip E. Duc!J.Scherer, Robert Company of Newark, N. J., relative· room 13 of .the middle section of leys. According to this new theory, the H. Ferguson, Louis Gardiner III, to the possibility of adding to their South College. Severa:! colorful drawings of the: light velocity is decreasing at a Arthur S. Grant jr., Robert G. staff and that of thei't affiliate, WALTER WILLIAMS '36. strata visible in the rocks of this constant rate which in about two· Gunn jr., William H. Hawkes. R. H. Macy and Com.pany of _New locality have been placed on the_ billion years may bring it to zero, Sigma Chi-Robert Burns, Will- york City. All members of the walls, along with diagvams showing shutting off light from the univer.se, _iam E. Endicott, Fr.ederick Faga.l, class of 1935 interested in having an the topography of the local terrain. and killing everything upon it. 'Severyn J. Hasbrouck, Robert V. interview with the Bamberger- Sample specimens taken from the Dr. Wold is now investigating Kling, Kenneth W. Reinhardt, Macy representative, when he visits region are traced by markers to this hypothesis which still remains James W. Scott. the campus, kindly register at the FRATERNITY PICTURES their original positions In the draw-- to be proved, in the physical labora- Sigma Phi-JQhn Bowie, Frank Placement Bureau, room ij, Admin- lngs. · tories at the college. Friehofer, .John Eardiman, John istration building. Pictures cf t):J,e fraternity houses sent to the New York Times for feature use have been returned and are now at the News Bureau. Members may call for them. ··· .. · ... WHEN YOU WANT TO DON'T KNOW HOW ..• LUCKIES USE ONL CopyrJBht 1835, ~ Amerlcllll Tobacco Company. Others may disappoint. I never do. I'm always mild, always fine to taste-because I'm made of fragrant, expensive center leaves, only. Turn your back on top leaves. I do. They're raw, bitter, stinging. Turn your back on bottom leaves because these coarse, sandy, grimy bottom leaves don't belong in your smoke. Before I consider it worthy, every leaf must be a center leaf, mild, fine-tasting, fragrant. That's why r m your best friend. LEAVES ••• CENTER LEAV.ES GIV·E Y.OU THE MILDEST SMOKE f ]

Four Exhibit Portrays Geologic Resources l\lint>ml Wealth of New York State Portrayed by Dbplay In New Laboratory An eeonomic tab!<• rt'lll'esenting New York State's ·wt•:tlth in it,; abundant mineral natural resourct•s is one of the interl'>ting displays shown at tht• gcolo~ical Pxhibit now open in tht• newly-outfitted geology la:boratory in South CollPgl'. Th<' Pxhibit wa>< prrpan·d under the >lUJWrvision of Professor Ed- ward S. C. Smith, Chctit·man ,,f the ;;taff of the field of geology, to- getht•r ·with FredPrick \\'. Toppan. tnstt uctor, ant.! se\'etal advanced :;tudPnts. The display wa:; opened :Uonday afternoon and may be vis- ited every afternoon from 3 to 5 o'clock. Oils. Gast's, ::\linerals the minenll properties of earth may be exanuned at the exhibit. Excellent airplane view:; of sce!les of geologkal mtercst are on db;play l.tnu show the typical ero,;ion of the ,;emi-a.rid regions in the Wasatch Mountains, u.s well u.s the Hudson H.t\'l'l' vallt•y, Bca t· .\1ountain Bridge, Taal Volcanoe and the Grand Can- yon . .New Yodt State Museum Bul- letms, dating sevetal years back ate altio on \·iew in the antechamber. :Fhwroscope Demonstnttion The fluoroscope, an instrument which demonstrates the action of ultra-violet rays on the e leclt'Ons g-iven off by fluorite, villemite, alltO- nJte, uramun1 nitrate and ztnc sul- phide, presents one of the nl<Jtit spectacular demons tratwnti. Fos.sil- ized animals which inhabited the eat·th countle.sti ~·ear:> ago may be seen in the display, which al::;o in- cludes especially co n::; t r u c t e d models of the mon•ment uf an ice- sheet. th.e de\·e!opment of a volcano, and the formullun of rivers and val- leys. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1935 \Void- I I I~'ra tcrnities- J0nlan, Frederic Stoughton, Thom- as \Vard. Theta Delta Chi -JumPs \V. :\kKenzie jr., H.0lJert Dl'nzler, I ( Cuutillli<'U fwm l'age 1) (Continued from Pa~<' ll . . . . l!.ulow \'t>urllP<'~. l'haJI,•s II. L;od- l:ob<•tt Badgley, J. Robert Dni'\ jr .. Btble fur srtenttsb tu ftnd th<• Pit-· dai d. I,\, Juhn Haff, Joseph C. Heichul. mentti composing faroff nL•bulae ur h:tp)•:-t :--!u I! vin.~ Ht·ownstPin, Tlwtu l'<H Epsilon C-har It's other solar systt>ms by tlwir luw~ lhul'i~\n Kctl p, ll<'rman K,•,;sl<·t. quandt, lll•urgc• Barter, \Vulter in the :;pectoglaph. Hut ,:,•ienti,.,t,.; ;-;,tdlll'Y Ll'\\b, JPi<•ltll' ~pl'ilman,l Hobbins, .<ll'uq.;<' ~cult. '\ , .:--; onnan I'Ll lilt rantz. I Th<• . _P> 1 ~n:'.d. Club - G- eot ,.,_c \\. ha\'e obserVl'U that thL•se linl'ti ha\'l' . . . A tl Ed c Eappa ~igma HulH·I t l'l;!rk, ,~lien Jt ., Ddm an ;'ne ' \\n .. tihlfteLi, and are still oltiftin~ tu- William Jacol..>eJ, h<>U<'I 1 Hanl<ine, Canham, Cltal'ies \\. Daley. ward the red >'il!t• of tlw >'JH•dtttlll. ]{OiJPtl Hil'haabon, Cat! IL T!u· -------· 0 Tu explain thi.,:, some of thPill haw haman. (~1\'IL HEgViCi.; EXAM:INATIONH ad\·anced the thl·ory that tht• uni- vet·se iti expunuing, anu that thl' nebulae are movin~ away fl·om our galu<:h.ic :sy,;ll'm. Lambda Chi Alpha ~ygmunt Announc·ements of Civil Service Sz!'~ombrow,-ki, ('layton Ada.ms, 1 f 11 · Anthunv Canale, \\'iliiam Itubbins, examination::; for t 1e o owmg Louis 1;homp~on. positions have -been received: a:;· :c'i:c'tant stati:;tical clerk, dietitian, Phi D~lta Th<·ta lll'rt i;·k l>h<•J'- and director of typography. Any- man, \\ tntl'I ton nuy. F luy,li . V. one wi,;hing to investigate the I ,alit!. Harry :\lyPI \· \ tnr<>nt ~nut h. pal·-ticulat·s and qualifica-tions may , !'!~i. Ga•:.llna , ll~·.lw . J~,hn, ~1.1 eall at ~h~ Pln~ement. B~reau, room ~ ett), How,ud b. ::-;.uub Jt., :-;het- 0 Admm 1 ,;tratwn buJ!tlmg. win .:\[. S!'lll':ldt•. ' ---o--- l'hi Si;;ma Ka.ppa \\'illialll G. i'LACEl'riENT Bl.:REAU NOTICE (;l(!e Club- (Cant inu~d from PagP 1) m~uta-),<'r of thP g!t•e l'it!h to their honw town~. \Vllipplt>, who will do a l·argl' part of the dir••cting dur- ing t hP t-·H•\'t\\'ll ('01\Ct'!'l ~. liVPS ill Bin~hamton an<! will tii-rL'<'l the glt'P club in ii,; fir.;t ap]H'~u·auee iH that city. !I.tWkL•s, u,~utagPr, lives in !~!mira. Tlw club h<:~:; drilled together five tinw,; Wl''' kly sinee the opening· of the ,.;chool year in ::leptcmber in ]Ireparatmn for the ma.1or concerts of the 1'93·1-35 ><Qa;:on. Next week the students will ~pend four clays on lh l' campu:; and then Pnt rain for Nt'W York. lo begin thP longest trip in recent yt•a.Js. This tnp will t<tl1e the club to New York, Freeport, Long I\hml.. l'Pnn ~ta(P Col!Pgt> and l'ittdJuq~h. l'<•nnsylvania. () O'CTING CLUB NOTiCE Many seit•nti:lts, hoWl'\'l'l'. and among them Dr. \\'old, uu nut hulu with this tht>ory. In setting a basi::; fur investigation, Dr. \\'u!tl c>X· plaincd the phenomenon by stat- ing \If we assume that the velol'ity of light is deerc>asing- slowly with time all through spact•. one can readily ex-plain a reuwat·d .,:hift on the spectrum pt·oportional to our dititance from the light source.\ Forman, \\'illiam l\luJray, :'>t:mton 'Thc>rP will be a meeting of the C. Hull, E:dww·d \'anAukt•n. A communication has bl•en r·e· Executive c<>nnnittee uf the Outing Psi F•psli<>n I·~dmond H. At un- ceived from L. Burnbet·ger anli Club t-onight at 7:30 o'dock in <lell, Pllilip E. lJUl'~Jo;dJPl'L't, Tiob01t Company of Newark, N.J., relative room 13 of the middle section of H. l•'et·gu,;on, I.oui,; Gardiner Ill, to the possibility of adding to their South Collef!·e. At thw· S. Urant jr., Itobt•Jt G. ~taff and that of their affiliate, V\\A.L:r'ER WILLIA:O.IS '3G. Gunn jr., William H. HawltPs. R, H. Macy anti Company of New ____ -o __ _ Si~nm Chi Robert Burns, \\'ill- York City. All members of the FRA'l'I~R.NI'rY l'ICTUnES According to this new theo1y, the Several colorful drawings of the light velocity is deerea:;ing at a strata visible in the rocl1s of this constant rate which in about twu locality have been plaeed on 1:he billion years may b1in~ it to zero, Aceot'llmg to the Pxhibit, J:\ew wall~. along with diagrams ::;howing shutting off light ft·um the uniVt·t·:;,•, York State still producp:; a \Vide. the topography of the local terrain. and killing e\'erything upon it. vanety of nece:;si ties inelu<ling oib,l Samp.le specimens taken from the Dr. \Void is now investigating ~ase~. m!nl'J'al:< of tndtbtt·ial va!Ul', ng-ion arl' traced 'by mar·kers to this hyp<Jthesis whieh still remain:; ma.rble and sandstone. Specimens 1 their original po::;itions in the draw-l to be proved, in the physical labura- illu.,.trating the vm·iou.s phcu;e.s of· in;:;s. tories at the college. iam E. Endicott. Fredt·lick Fagal, class of 1935 interested in having an -- -- Se\'enn J. Ha:<brouck, Hobert V. interview with the Bamberger- Pictures of the fraternity houses Kling: Ken,neth W. Heinharut, :0.1acy representative, when he visits sent to ll:w New York Time,; for Janws \\'. Seott. the campu~. kindly register at the I feature usc have been returned and ::i1~rna Phi-John Bowie, Frank, Placement Bureau, room 6, Admin· are now at the News Bureau. FriPhoft•r, John Hal dim an, John' istration building. Memb£>rs may call for th<>n1. ' m ., \ .,, '\:_,,, '''. ..• , ·. ~ WHEN YOU WANT TO UP AND DON'T KNOW HOW ... :}:::-·::.-:::;. :::~~:./;-::~(:: ... :;:: ....... ' LUCKIES USE ONL Coxmlgbt 1935, The American Tobacco Company. Others may disappoint. I never do. I'm always mild, always fine to taste-because I'm made of fragrant, expensive center leaves, only. Turn your back on top leaves. I do. They're raw, bitter, stinging. Turn your hark on bottom leaves because these coarse, sandy, grimy bottom leaves don't belong in your smoke. Before I consider it worthy, every leaf must be a center leaf, mild, fine-tasting, fragrant. That's why I'm your best kiend. LEAVES ... CENTER LEAVES GIVE YOU THE MILDEST SMOKE r l ]

