Xi was Ed- of mis- be Fri- lery. of {.c. Sci- of Dl'. M. t·e- · no- Festival To Produce Ade Play .(Page Five) UN\01'\ OOLLt.GE UBR~trr More Than $100,000 In Gifts (Page One) Vol. LIX, N<>. 60 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENEC'I'ADY, N.Y., SA'L\'URDAY JUNE 6, 1936 PRICE FNE CENTS Campus Thronged for 141st Commencement Exercises THE SENIOR WB;O HAS DONETH& MOST FOR UNION, Albert H. Stevenson of Erook- lyit is the \'inner of the Bailey Cup; Sports editor of The Con· eordiensis, C()·Captain of baseball, Sigma Xi and' a Terrace Council· man, he has been awarded a· scl10larship in engineering at Harvard. r iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;~iiiiiiiiiiil AS VALEDICTORIAN OF 'l'HE CLASS OF 1936, Kenneth J. PAST THESE MEMORIAL CHAPEL PILLARS come the annual academic processions for Commencement. Dr. George Ly- man Kittredge, famous Shakes- perianscholar, is Honorary Chan· cellor this year. His address will be carried to a nation·wide audi- ence through theN ational :Broad- · casting Company. THE ENTRANCE TO UNION'S OFFICIAI.HOIME, Hale Ho11se. The.g:ift of a!lcmymous-donors, the l'ecently-openccllounges and Dill ... ing llall are a mem()rial to the late Professot• Ed\'Ward Everett Hale, 1..:=:=:=:.....-----------__. Jr. These Jl:len Will be Honored by Commencement ALUMNI WILL BE WEL· COME THIS AFTERNOON at the annual reception held by Dr. and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox in the President's Garden. A compara· tively new development on the campus, this sunken greensward has ah·eady been made familiar through the President's generous hospitality. c. E, Olsen Ft·ederick of Scotia will make the f()rmal farewell address at Com· · menooment. Frederick, a c:hem· istry student, will be assistant p1tysics instructor at ·the Univer· sity of California at Los Angeles

... Two Sigma Xi Elects Nine Men To F~~ull Me1nbership Status Former Associate Members, All Union Graduates, Advanced in Recognition of Their Scientific Research Work The Union ColJeo·e Chapter of Sig-ma Xi has elected nine U:ssociate membel's\' to fuLl membership in the society, Dr.' Frank J. Studer, secretary, announced today. They include: Dr. Charles R. Williams, Ca1·l J. Frosch, Charles ~· Ray- mond, Dr. Henry B. Arthur, J. Westford 0utler, Lmn M. Jone:s, Dr. Le:ster T. :\loston, Thomas H. W1ll.JUI', and Floyd E. Ulrich. All are graduates of Union College. Dr. William~, a membet· of the~ -------- cla~::; of 1U2U, lllUJUI\\d in Geology IN YA 0 t tandi·ng and received hi:; Pn. D degt ee at I U S Harvard in lU:l:l. He ha:; publl£hed 1 li • a llU!lliJ~l ul lu ... g..t.llllC ... , t.d.~o Vll I As Re ef Project hi:; :;ubJect and i::; at pre::;cnt en- gagcu 111 lC~tO<.UC!l Wu!K Wtlh tl~c: I --- A!ucuc ... u l'auhc Health .A\\ucw- G t Plan uon. overnmen Enables Also in 1~29 Class Many to !Remain in School; Al::;o of the cia::;\ of 1929, Mr. College Helped Frosch rcccLved a B. S. in Chcmi,;- try. He is now with t·he ·Bell Tele- --- phone Laborato1 ie::; and has pub- Thu1-sday, May 28.--\Working ii:;hcd ~cveral article:;. your way through college\ is no 11r. H.aymond ':J~, maj01 cd . in I myth to Union College stud~nts, Chemi~try hc1c and 1~ ncanng who huve ::;pent 32,209 hours smce completion of his Ph. D. work at September on necessary work fi- M. I. T. He has co-operated with nanced by the National Youth Ad- lJr. Hurd of the Cnwn 1a.culty on mmistration, according to Mis:; l'-'\\an;h wurk. France::; Ttavis, head of the college Receiving an A. B. ftom t;uwn employment bureau. in 1li26, Dr. Arthur obtained a ma8- Miss Travis stated today that an tel's degree at Harvard 1n HJ31 average of 133 students a month, or and a Ph. D. in 1H35. Dr. Arthur almost 16 per cent of the student majored in economics and is now body, will have earned a total of with the WPA. He has also held mo1·e than $13,000 during the past other positions in the Hoosevelt scholastic year. At a rate of 35 administration besides teaching at cents an hour, the government ap- Harvard. propriation has enabled many of the men to stay in college who Civil Engineer . . . would otherwise be financially dis- Mr. Cutler, a graduate m ctvtll abled. engillt:ering in 1924, i::; a. develop- ment engmeer with Wallace Ter- NYA Project Outstanding man Compuny. He ha:> carlicd on \There can be little doubt that re:;earch m the field of wate1 puri- the plan is pt·obably one of the ficat10n. 1 mo::;t out:;tanding of all the relief Mr. Jones g1aduated in l!:l22 re-~ projec~::; undertaken ~y the govern.~ ceiving hts degree in ~lectrical En- m7nt m t~e economtc emergency, gineermg. Author of seve1·a1 mag-I.Mt:ss.Tlav!::; stated. \It has not o~ly azme articles he is now w1 th tno:1 PI ovhled work for :>tudent::; Which We:;tern Unwn 'Telegraph Com-1 would enable them to go to college, pany but has, in addition, given many ' a particularly delightful type of . At present profes~or of mathema- work in the fields in which they tics at WaynesbUI.g College, Dr. are majoring. This work has inured i\.loston has been an mstructor 111 t the benefit of both the college that subject t.here and at Harvar?·J a~td the student.\ He recetved h1s A.B. m 1~27 a?~ hts Almost all of the wot·k has been Ph. D. ~rom Harvard m l!:l.l 3 .. ::;trictly utilitarian tasks which the Mr. Wilber graduated from Umon college could not ordinarily afford in 11!21, having majored in .chem- to have done, and every student istry, He has done research Ill the has been used every hour. Some field of chemical engmeering and of the projects labelled impossible is now with the Bullard Chemical without the NY A grant are the re- Company. modelling of the Geology hall ex- Mr. Uliich has 1·eceived two de· hibition rooms, modernization of grees from Union, B. S. in Elec· the course in Plane surveying, work trical Engineering in 1l!26 and M. on the college heating and electl'i- S. in Electrical Engineering in cal systems, and other projects 1928. Be::;tdes domg graduate study ranging from manual labor to sci· at Harvard, he has taught at entific laboratory computations. Union. He is now an instructor in mathematics at Rice Ins tit ut~. ---0--- Ligon Sails for Europe To Travel, D() Research Friday, June 5.-Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, professor of psychology, sailed for Europe today to begin a year's study abroad on leave of absence. His first stop will be in England for six weeks, during which time he intends to visit child clinics and hear lectures on child psychology. He himself has a number of speak- ing appointments in England. About the middle of July he will go to Vienna where he will attend the summer session of the Institute of Psychology of the University of that city. A brief u·ip to Paris will be fol- lowed by a trip to Madrid where he will attend the 11th Interna- tional Congress of Psychology. During this session, from Septem- ber 1, he will read three papers, the subject matter of which has grown out of the Character Research Pro- ject which he has conducted during the past year with school children. Each of the three will describe a phase of the experimental work on children which has taken place this year in the aptitude testing pro- gram. Following the Congress he will return to Vienna for some months' study in the Institute·s Psychology laboratories. In General Favor WASHINGTON, D. C.-M.ay 22.- Enthusiastic reception in all parts of the country to the NYA young peo· pie's and student's aid program featured the reports of state direc- tors who completed a three-day conference with national and re- gional officers here today. A majority of those who, at the outset, were skeptical of the pur- poses and possible consequences of the NYA program have come to a realization that it is the most logi- cal and effective means of dealing with the problems of young people in the depression, the directors stated. The visible benefits to the 390,500 high school and college stu- dents who have been enabled to continue in school, and the value and integrity of the work projects on which another 210,000 young people have been employed, have dispelled practically all serious op- position, they declared. 0 Mavor Writes Text Head of Biology Field Is Author Of Comprehensive Text to Be Released in JWJe Dr. James Watt Mavor, head of the field of biology at Union Col- lege, is the author of \General Biology,\ a 775-page, comprehensive textboolt of biological science which will be released in July by the Mac Millan Company of New York. The work of five years, Dr. Mavoz·'s new text is based upon courses given at Union during that period, and has been thoroughly About December 1st he expects tested by practical experience. to go to Geneva to study child psy- Many of the chapters have already chology methods in the J. J. Rous- been published as contributions to seau Institute under the direction professional biological journals. of Dr. Jean Piaget, one of ·the out- One distinctive feature of the standing child psychologists in Eu- book, according to the editors of rope. the MacMillan Company, is the In March he will return to Paris pointing up of practical applica- where he will study child psycho!- tions of the study of biology to ogy methods in the clinics of that human life. In addition to the city. From there he will go to Mas- strictly scientific aspect, the mate- cow to spend a short time obscrv- rial is also treated from the physi- ing the methods and learning the cal, medical; economic and social principles set forth by Dr. Alexan- pointR of view. der Luria who is dol ng ~<uch inter- . Following the scientific method e\ting PXperim~>nting with childnn 1 of working from particulars to gen- in that countr~·. He will then go 1 Pralization\ the last section is re- back to England for n bri<'f period · 1 RPrvPd for n discussion of princi· and leave about August 1 for j: ples correlating the factual matter America. of the book, THE CONGORDIENSIS, SATURDAY, JUNE· 6, 1936 rtesy of the SClhenert.ady Union-Star. TYI'ICAL OF THE RISE OF STUDENT INTEREST IN AFFAIRS is the educational activity of the n('wly-organized International Relations Club. Shown above In one of their regular radio round-tables of student thought, are, left to- right, President Dixon Ryan Fox, Richard C. Snyder, ,president of the club, Charles H. Reeves an.d Dr. Harold A. Larrabee, advise1·. By VAN V. TRUMBULL The increasing awareness of so- cial and economic problems on the part of American college students is reflected at Union by the forma- tion this year of several groups and the alliance of the college with two national student organizations of liberal tendencies. The Union Chapter of the A. S. U. was organized afteu twelve students had attended a regional conference of the organization at Hamilton College March 13 and 14. Th.e nu- cleus of the group had been active in the campaign against the Nu- nan Student Loyalty Oath Bill two weeks before. The chapter, although small (18 members), has received much at- tention, and, to the glee of its lead- ers, it has attracted a considerable amount of opposition from local patriots and eampus conservatives. An Albany newspaper hailed the new organization with the head- line: \Radical Group Invades Union College.\ A lively correspondence in the column of The Concordiensis debated the alleged Conununistic background of the A. S. U., and one student's assembly talk was built around this theme. Union Gets $12,()00 For Drama Festival Corpo1·ation Awards Sum fo1· Use in Connection With Drama Festival Sunday, May 17.-The carnegie Corporation has awarded a grant of $12,000, spread in annual pay- ments over a number of years, to Union College to be used In connec- tion with the Mohawk Drama Fes- tival and the Institute of the Thea- ter on the campus this summer, President Dixon Ryan Fox an- nounced today. The first installment of this fund will be used largely for renovation and physical equipment for the two indoor theatres and landscaping of the outdoor theatre on the Gradu- ate Council field. Work on the con- struction of a new stage and other improvements in the Mountebanks Theatre will begin on Monday, June 8. Library Improvements A portion of the first payment will also be used to provide an ade- quate library basis for the aca- demic work of the Institute, mak- ing possible a broad collection on the theatre arts that will rank with the leading college collecti()ns. Fa- cilities for exhibitions will also be provided through the grant. \The action of the Carnegie Cor- poration in making this g-rant,\ said Dr. Fox today in annoancing the gift, \is deeply appreciated in affording much material resources for our summer enterprise, but it is valued most as an evidence of public faith In the practical and fruitful co-operation of academic scholarship with the historic pro- fessional stage.\ 1i: Jobs for Graduates The grant also makes possible the installment of a system where- by students of the Institute who have been awarded diplomas of dis- tinction for two years will be em- ployed by the Festival the third year at a guaranteed salary of $25 a week for eight weeks. An ar- rangement is made for a tuition re- duction during the second year. The staff of visiting lecturers for the Institute will be enlarged this yeat· to incl1,1de Barrett H. Clark, Sheldon Cheney, Alexander ])ean, Walter Prichard Eaton, Clayton Hamilton, Arthur Hobson Quinn, and S. Marion Tucker. Edward L. Carroll, chairman of the 1936 Institute, announced to- day that there will be 11 exhibi- tions in the theater museum this year instead of last year's eight. Registrations for the Institute are now open, and requests for ap- plications may be sent to Milton M. Enzer, registrar, at Silliman :Hall. As its first .project, the A. S. U. sponsored the student strike against war, which attracted 400 sympa- thizers and onloolte!'S to a special meeting in the Memorial Chapel April 22. Council Joins N. 8. F. A.. The Union College student body officially joined the National Stu- dent Federation of America late in March when the Student Council announced the affiliation. The move had been expected since early in the term when the student body voted its approva:l of the organiza- tion. The N. S. F. A. is a national organization of student governing bodies. From time to time it takes a stand on issues in national and international affairs, but it pri- marily is concerned with campus problems and student government. .A delegation of four council members attended the state N. S. F. A. conference in Albany, April 24 and 25. Has Active Program Oldest and most active of the groups formed this year is the In- ternational Relations Club, which was organized last fall. The nu- cleus of its membership was com- posed of the delegates to the Model League of Nations. The club pro- Baccalaureate Recital By Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Mus. D. Organist Sunday, JWJe 1, 4 p. m. I Chorale in Franck. B Minor-Cesar Eerceuse et Finale-Igor Strawinsky. Bide of the Valkyries-Rich- ard Wagner. II 'Toccata and Fugue in D Minor -John Sebastian Bach. Fraeludium-Armas Jarnefelt. Softly Now the Light of Day arr. Reynolds. 'Toccata from Fifth Smyphony -Charles Marie Wider. III :Morning Hymn-Sir George Henschel. Lochinvar-William G. Ham- mond. :Musical Trust-Joseph Clokey. Summer Even1ng-Selim Palm- gren. 'I'he Lost Chord-Sir A1thur Sullivan, Euterpe Club, Poughkeepsie. Mendelssohn Club, Kingston. Schubert Club, Schenectady. Troy Vocal Sodety, Troy. Accompanists, James Early and Charles Reid jr. '36. Thesis in Libra1·y Essay by Student BoWid for Li- braJ'Y as Number Three of Un- dergraduate Philosophy Studies A specially meritorious thesis in philosophy written by John A. Mc- Gaire '36 on \Economic Thought in 18th Century New England\ for the course in American Philosophy conducted by Professor Harold A. Larrabee, has been bound and de- posited in the college library as Number Three in the Union Col- lege Undergraduate Studies in Phil- osophy. McGuire's treatise was honored with a place on the shelves of the college library in accordance with a custom established six years ago for undergraduate theses deserving especial distinction. The paper deals with the cur- rency question, inflation, and the attempts at economic regulation in the period before the American Revolution, and also with the ef- fects of the war upon prices and taxation. The essay also includes discus- sion of Benjamin Franklin as an 18th century American economist, ma.ny of whose fundamental pre- conceptions were formed during his youth In Massachusetts. McGuire, who has been recently awarded a scholarship for graduate study at Clark University for next year, has been studying American Philosophy under Dr; Larrabee this year. poses to sponsor these delegations ·in the future and have a program of tJ·aining new Model League dele- gates. Meetings have been held on the average of once every two weeks, featuring discussions of interna- tional problems. The most ambitious project of the new club was a series of four radio roundtable discussions on world problems. Five students and four faculty members participated in this series. In each broadcast, two students and two professors discussed informally such subjects as \Can the United States Keep out of War?\ and \Should We Join the League of Nations?\ The aim of the series was to give a repre- sentative view of American student opi11ion on international affairs. The club plans to continue and ex- pand its broadcasting program next year. A unique type of study group is the Gavel Club, organized after the .college-wide movement for and against the Nunan Student Loyalty Oath Bill. It sponsors occasional public discussions on political and economic questions. The only re- quirement is that the subjects be highly controversial, and that both sides be fanatically represented. Dramatics Course Seores Comic Hit Play Production Course Ends Season With Effective Latin Comedy By VEDDER M. GILBERT On Friday, May 15, the Play Pro- duction Course gave Terence's comedy, \Phormio in Hanna Hall. A repeated performance was given last nig·ht in the campus theatre. \Phormia\ is the final production given this season by the members of the Course, who have been study- ing the principles of acting, direct- ing, scene and costume design, stage lighting and mechanics, make~up and play writing under the able direction of Mr. Edward L. Carroll. Trans1a.tion Is Virile T. R. Taylor, and other students of the Latin drama, have referred to Terence as \The Elegant.\ There is little that is elegant in Ferdi- nand Helm's virile translation of \Phormia\ Into modern vernacular. Most translations of the scholarly Terence are apt to be wooden ancl pedantic. Helm has given us a lively and thoroughly amusing ren- dition. Directo1• Carroll has caught the delightful spirit of horseplay (per- haps through the Savoyards) that existed in the decadent Roman theatres of the first century before Christ. With dignified ease the cast went through its ridiculous paces to the great enjoyment of the audi- ence. G1·eatly Involved Plot The plot is greatly involved, but nothing was spared to simplify and clarify it. Horseplay was abandoned in those scenes that contained im- portant information for the better understanding of the story about two boys who fall in love while their fathers are away. The fathers are not in accord with their son's affairs and complications arise which are untangled by Demipho's <S. Ralph. Cohen) clever house slave, Geta (Wallace T. Foote), and the scheming parasite, Phormia (John B. Dowling). Considering the limitations that naturally exist in a play produc- tion course, the entire cast gave ad- mirable performances. Outstanding work was done by Foote, who suc- ceeded in being vlugar and suave at the same time; Cohen, who por- trayed the blustering father in a manner that would have pleased Plautus; and Helm's Chremes was delightfully mouse-like and quite in keeping with the character. Cohen in creating the decor for \Phormio\ foliowed the rules set down by the Roman architect, Vi- truvius; but he modernized ;the street-scene by lneluding a slot- machine, a penny-scales, and a fire-escape. Thirteen Students Study Government In State Offices 'ro Learn Conditions at First Hand as \Internes\ in Subject Pal't of New Course Addition of Field Experience Integ1·a:I Part of C1ass Cul'liculum Saturday, May 23.-Dr. Patter- Bon H. l:<'rench announced today the thirteen students who have been awa1·ded \inte1neships\ in va1iou;; otatc t.!cpa.llmento uf gove1nment for the summer. These \interne- ~bips\ conclude the program of study of state and local government at Union College which was begun la~;t Fall under his direction, 'l'he new program of government study at Union was born during the conference on training college students for government which was called by Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox. when ·he was inaugurated president of Union College in October, 1934. Tbo:;e who di:;cussed the important connection between college work and· governmental aetivit:v included ·Governor Wilbur L. Cross of Con- necticut, Commissioner Frank P. Graves of the State Department of Education, and Dr. Joseph. D. Mc- Goldrick, then Comptroller of New York City. Supplemented by Practice Under the new course arrange- ment, inaugurated this year, the students supplemented their rou- tine classroom work with weekly trips to state and local legislative meetings and forums with leaders in various- pqases of governmental activity. The \field work\ of the class dur- ing the year were the weekly trips to Albany to observe the state gov- ernment in operation. Groups at- tended the various public hearings of legislative committees, notably the hearings on the budget and on the state tax program. The class as a whole attended the Monday eve- ning meetings of the two houses of the legislature, and at other times it was addressed by members of various state departments which were afterward inspected, Intemeship Appointments But the most interesting e!lter- prise in the new program of gov- ernment study is the development of \interneships\ for students who have special interest in the work. The thirteen students who received such appointments follow: To the Department of Law (At- tomey General, etc.)-William Friedman and Laurence F. Paulus '36; Malcolm M. Arny, Marvin Katz: Irving Brownstein, Wilford A. C. LeForestier, and Henry B. Whit- beck, '37. To the Department •of Labor- John E. Duncan and George H. .v.relinette, '36. To the Department of Taxation and Finance-Jack Tinkle, 37. To the Regents Education In- quiry-William G. Forman, Fenton A. Gage, and William A. Seifart, '37. In Various Capacities The interneships will last for at least three weeks, beginning June 10. The men will serve in various capacities. In some departments they will study special features of the different branches of the work. In other departments they will be given certain assignments of work to do in a particular part of the field, while some other students will be given work that they would be doing if they were regular state employees, As they wor.k they will have op- l'ortunity to observe the govern- mental process in operation and to become familiar with the work of a particular field. Meanwhile they will all hold regular confe~ences to that students in the various fields can compare experiences and pool their knowledge, At the end of the period, each \interne\ will prepare a report on his observa- tions and experience for the use of classes in following years. The state officials have expressed enthusiastic interest in the plan ~nd co-operated generously in find- mg places for the students. Dr. French pointed out \that al- though this new program at Union College provides a valuable addi- tion to the work in the field of gov- ernment, it will replace classroom work; thorough work h1 facts and principles of government will con- tinue in the state and local gov- ernment course as well as in all other government courses. The field work is used rather to fur- nish supplementary and illustrative material. It is designed to furnish a background for students who may. wish later to go into public service, but not to provide direct vocational training for them.\ The term papers of the students included those on \Unusual Legis- lation,\ \Legislative Committees\ \Legislative Pressure Groups>· State Financial Aid to Localities,\ and ''State Labor Legislation.\ Dr. Douglas Campbell conducts th.e courses in natrona! and inter- national government. ........... Wain: W.P. Writ1 Rea l __ ~::~_:: -i': -i': Sect Webb Colleg~ Two Gi: Tulane Uni For U1 A To Ren Bailey, Cc Will Ex \Rou Friday, J1 ment of He Tulane Uni·V Union Colleg gift from It York makin :;pace for at umes in the Nott Memor nounced to Dixon Ryan commencemE board of tru Dr. Fox al lumbia Univ circular oak in its low M disposal of definite loa gether with < possible by provide not ing room in ing\ but als< of its thre These \fund! are expecte< normal gro\' ing the next Office; The reno1 building will mer and it closure of al sound prooJ Bailey gift 1 tive use of appropriatioJ books was three memb1 library stat Mr. Webb. A graduat sity of Rocl sity of Illin< professional versity of B Buffalo, the lie Library and the S• During the years with lery, A. E. He is pref Library Ass the Americ: and of the Association. several nati search mat< ians. Speaking Dr. Fox s: comity fro1 collegiate ir to the seco: lumbia Uni' circular oal ing the ma' Low Memo Union Coli< The round lege library of their fc desks brok< length.\ If retur1 guests bee mencement cast about away the t' lng source to mention pel hymnbc A gener~ goers has cl cil and per the books. be groupe headings: chronology Among ranking s1 with the Sketches 1 the favori1 fairly goo anterior p< times ace< \Have an Dr. Lar in the cha Concordiel an exampl \Ben be Ben Ben jur Ben The pr< good nur. \Chapel < \Mac is this, a hie

es the been erne- of ment was Fox. !dent 1934. rtant work Con- k P. of Mc- New the rou- eekly dur- trips gov- s at- on as eve- ouses other gov- who <.At- c. bor- H. In- '37. or at June es of be work the dents state e op- vern- to of they us end will erva- of plan find- al- addi- gov- con- gov- all The fur- who ' ups,\ . nter- ..... ;~:; .... , W.P.A. I Writers Head Olnurnrbtrnnin r--~~~-;:;- • : of Tulane • : Chosen l __ ~:::.:a~:~: __ j NEWS SECTION t Librarian 1 l_~:::_:~:~::~.J i': i': Section VOL. LIX. SCHENECTADY, N. Y., SATURDAY, JUNE 6, 1936 No. 60. Price 5 Cents Webb Appointed College Librarian; Two Gifts Received New College Librarian Kittredge, Is Type Honorary Chancellor, Commencement Day Monday Teacher Writes Fiais to 141 st Year of Personality, Tulane University Man Chosen For Union Post, Fox Announces To Renovate Library Bailey, Columbia Donations Will Extend, Refurnish \Round Building\ Friday, June 5.-The appoint- ment of Helmar Lewis Webb of Tulane Uni·versity rus librarian of Union College and the receipt of a gift from Frank Bailey of New York making possible addi.tional space for at least 40,000 rome vol· umes in the present over-crowded Nott Memorial Library, were an- nounced tonight by President Dixon Ryan Fox at the annual commencement meeting of the board of trustees. Dr. Fox also announced that Co· lumbia University had placed the circular oak desks formerly used in its low Memorial Library at the disposal of Union College \on in· definite loan.\ These deslts to· gether with other furnishings made possible by Mr. Bailey's gift, will provide not only a splendid read- ing room in Union's \round buildc ing\ but also study alcoves on two of its three circular balconies. These \fundamental improvements\ are expected to provide for the normal growth of the library dur- ing the next five years. Offices Sound-proofed The dignified figure of George Lyman Kittredge, retiring Harvard prof<>ssor, whose eccent1 !cities have .become part of the colorful tradi- tion which ,;unound~ the college. teaching profession, will grace the chair of the Union College Honor- a! y Chancellor Monday mm·ning at the 141st annual Commencement c.h.ctc..:i.,c~. I Famed as a crusader against I cuught!:; <J.llu nui~e-make1~ and unc . uf the muot crudik ;;cholm•;; of j Shakespeare in the world, Profes- l sor Kiltl•edgc combines to a happy I degree a profound and searching knewledge with a personality and character that i;; a;; att1activc a::; it is lovable. \ Hi::; students me numbex ed in j three generations and his popular- ! ity ove1 an extended .period of · , ~·eaJ s h~:; increased Jathet· than HELMER L. WEBB I difl!inished. At. th; last l~cture wh1ch he gave m h1s academic ca- -·,leer Iecently, Professor KittJedge M Th $ 100 00 I was visited by more than 300 stu- Ore an .0 dents, rriE'nds and alumni who ·• · crowded the lecture hall to heal' In Gifts for Year hi~\ sr;:k~troke of 10 he entered Bailey Announces Receipt of $97,380, Cost of Hale the hall just as he has been doing for almost a half century. Dressed ;n hi::; u:mal light gray suit, he car- tied an old copy of \The Winter's Tale\ under his arm. House Work I \There wa::; still a rustle about the uou1s. Professor Kittredge white bea1 d and clipped out the Union College xeceivetl the enti1e · upeneu his book, pulled at his snow- co:ot of reconstructing the South single word, 'quiet'. When all was College Collonade into Hale House still he began, but not until then. anti new Dining Hall with its gar· It was a typical Kittredge lecture, den \close together with $97,380.57 leamed yet concise, and above all, in gifts during the year 1935-36, it sparkling with barbed wit and keen wa::; announced today by Frank understanding. Bailey, treasurer of Union College \Just at the end Professor Kit- who gave his 35th annual report at tredge made one concession to the the Alumni Luncheon held today sph·it of the day. Usually he fin· in connection with the 141st annual ishes his lecture as he picks up his commencement weekend activities. papers and stalks up the aisle, bit· In addition, Mr. Bailey announced O•--- the college has been named the F' F t •t• beneficiary of a bequest which wm IVe ra erDI IeS amount to \at least $125,000\ which d o } GI<;OH.GE LYMAN KITTREDGE ing out the closing words as he opens the door and the bell tolls 11 o'clock. A full five minutes before that time, he ~aid softly, 'We'll :otop here.' Then the applause broke, so thunderous it could be heard all over the quiet yard.\ ----·o----- Concordiensis Is A wa1·ded First Class Honor Rating MIN NEAPOLIS, Minn., June 6.-- The Union Co!lege Concordiensis, student semi-weekly newspaper, has been a warded first class honor rat- ing by the National Scholastic Press Association, it was an- nounced here today. Thi:o is the sec- ond highest rating possible, and only four student papers were .. Union to Confer UO Degrees at Annual Ceremony; George Lyman :Ki-ttridge Honorary Chancellm·; Will Be Broadcast by NBC Network union College will lruld il.::; 1-lbt c.:uuunencemeni exerches l\Ionday morning in the Uemorial Chapel with the awarding uf 170 uegree.s. Senim,::; uf the colleg·c, oi the .A.luany Phar· macy School, Albany }ledical School, Alba11y Law School, and outstanding scholars willl.Je among the recipients. - <i> D-r. Georg;e Lyman Kittredge, noted Shakespeare ;;cholar and Gurney Professor of English at Harvard University, who is the llonor<J.ry Cbancellor fur ~936, will deliver the principal address. The exercises will he broadcast over ·the NBC national network through the facilitie~ uf WGY from 11:15 to 12 Couple Win Dellate Twice in Two Years Snydel', Featherstonhatigb., on ::)arne Side, Take Good.!1iclt· Duane Event Again Tuesday, June 4.-Ricl::!.ard C. Snyder '37, and Duane Feather- stonhaugh '36, as first and second speakers on the negative side of the question, Resolved: that Italy's aggression in Ethiopia was war· ranted were awarded .fir~t and sec· ond prizes respectively in· the Goodrich - Duane Extemporaneous Debating contest held at the Old Chapel tonight. Louis C. Jones of the New York State College for Teachers was critic-judge. Snyder and Featherstonh.augh were the winners of last year's de- bate also, receiving $30 and $20 respectively. Olson First Spealter noon. Bacca..laureate Sunday On Sunday morning in the Mem- orial Chapel, President Dixon Ryan Fox will deliver the Baccalaureate Address to the graduating class. WGY will broadcast the address from 11:15 to 12 noon. Before an audience composed of trustees, Honorary Fellows, faculty members, stl.ldents, friend:o and relatives of candidates, President Dixon Ryan Fox will present ten honorary degrees. Following. this, Dean Garis will present the senior~? to Dr. Fox. for the awarding of their degrees. One hundred and forty members of the class of 1936 will receive degrees as well as four members of the class of 1935. Three master's degrees will also be given. Carl E. Olson '36, first speaker on the affirmative, made· the plea Law School Degrees that Ethiopia was not a state but A delegation of five students from The renovation of the l~brary building will take place this sum· mer and it will include the en- closure of all the library offices in sound proofed glass walls. The Bailey gift makes possible the ac· tive use of two more floors. The appropriation for the purchase of books was tripled this year, and three members will be added to the library staff this summer to aid Mr. Webb. A graduate of Dennison Univer- sity of Rochester, and the Univer- sity of Illinois, Mr. Webb has had professional experience at the Uni- will be received ~ming the next Hoi Fina Dances fiscal year and w11l be used for scholarships to students preparing for engineering professions. Last Social Events of This Season Take Place . mentioned in the highest, All- American, bracket. a \negation of a state\ and that the Albany Law School will repre- the internal conditions were de- sent the 5~ men graduating from plorable. \During its entire .ex:is- that divisi()n of Union University tence,\ he said, \Ethio];lia did not and five students from the Albany make any contribution te> the Medical School will represent the world's art or culture.\ 25 men re.ceiving the degree of No Deficit versity of Rochester, University of Declaring that a;; he was ap· Buffalo, the New York City Pub- preaching the end of his thirty- lie Library (economics division), fifth year as treasurer, he was re- and the Seattle Public Library. porting for the thirty-third time During the war he served for two that Union College has been oper- til ated without a deficit. years with the 134th Field Ar - The largest single gift received lery, A. E. F. d . th t 'th th He is president of the Louisiana unng e pas year, WI e ex- Library Association, a member of elusion of Hale House and Dining the American Library Association Hall, was one for $45,000 from the and of the Southwestern Library estate of Dr. A. B. Nash of the Association. He is a member of Class of 1883. In addition $5,000 was several national committees on re- received for endowment purposes search materials of college llbrar- from the Graduate Council, the ians. estate of George Alexander, and Speaking of the Columbia gift, Mrs. Frank Bailey. Dr. Fox said: \As a gesture of For current purposes, Union Col- comity from the first chartered lege received a total of $12,090.70 collegiate institution in New York from the Horowitz Foundation, to the second, the trustees of Co- Frank Bailey, N. V. V. Franchot, lumbia University have placed the John VannE>ck, Mr. and Mrs. Hinsk- circular oak desks formerly serv- ley, and \various friends.\ ing the main reading room of the The Alumni Gift Fund has re- Low Memorial at the disposal of ceived from 769 doners $10,585.69. Union College on indefinite loan. Mr. Bailey coicluded his report The round plan of the Union Col- with \I know that the college is lege library mall:es possible the use in better conditi?n . financ.ially, of their four massive concentric scholastically, and m 1ts e;;pnt de desks broken by aisles of varying I corps than it has been in many length.\ years.\ If Aught Else Fails During Chapel, Hymns Always Prove Enlightening Over Week-end Five fraternity dances this weelt will complete the social activity of the year as the men about college prepare for Commencement and de- parture for home. Alpha Delta Phi held its perennial all night affair Thursday entertained by Bernie Collins of Saratoga Springs. Delta Phi and Beta Theta entertained with tea dances yesterday after- noon. Ph iSig-ma Delta and Phi Gamma Delta will hold their dances tonight. The guests of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity included: Marion Haggerty, Marjorie Leibel, Mar· garet Ciowe, Barbara Clifton, Betty Rice, Jayne Buckly, Alice M<:Or- mand, Joan Leeds, Martha Wil- liams, Lucy Turnpline, and Cbris- tine Warnock, Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Achilles, and Mrs. H. H. Gardiner were chaperones. Delta Phi The guests of Delta Phi included: Virginia Dearstyne, Charlotte Meurs, Melba Ann Fox, Frances Scribner, Jane Rogers, Carol Finch, Cynthia Abbot, Elsie Broughton. Laura Trumbull, Jean Streibert, Anne Chippendale, Norma Taylor, Zelia Winter, Ruth Johnson, Jane Dowling, Barbara Brett, Virginia DeLaney. If returning alumni and their tlng fed up with this organ reci- The guests of Beta Theta Pi in- b d \th ·tal. 'Ray for the class of 1938. Down eluded: Carol Stone, Thelma Turck, g uests become ore Wl com- k p t · · w t · d b · t w 1 'th Tl'drnarsh. S1'gned-the Black Louise Fun , a nma a son, mencement exerCises an egm o M h The Concordiensis was awarded a total of 775 out of a,possible 1000 points in the scoring, it was an- nounced. In all, 258 collegiate papers, ranking from daily to monthly journals, were judged. Excellent marks were given the Union paper in the fields of sports, features, editorials and typography, while specific criticisms were made mainly In the field of make-up and headlines. The four papers rated in All- American class were the Detroit Collegian, Wayne University; Jun- ior Collegian, Los Angeles Junior College; The Targum, Rutgers Uni- versity; and the Temple News, Temple University. ---0----- Accept Graduates In Ten Med Schools Medi.::al Colleges Admit Members of Class Of 1936 21 Another phase of educatio11al en- deavor vvill be the next step in the lives of 21 Union College seniors who have been accepted into med- ical colleges all over the United State:>. Richard C. Snyder '36 stated that M. D. this year. Twelve students of Italy defied world organization set the Albany School of Pharma<'y up to guarantee world peace and, will receive the degree of Pharma- therefore, her aggression in Ethio- ceutical Chemist. pia was entirely unjustifla..ble. The ceremonies will begin with Arthur Wallace Hepner ':38, asked an acade~ic parade at 9:.45 a. m. the audience not to consider .phil- from various parts of the campus osophical ideals but econoxnlc real-j t~ th<; Metnor1al Chapel under the ism on which, in the final analysis, duectwn of Gran~ Marshall.~rold rested any judgment of Italy's ag- A: Larrabee_ and ~tdes. !\artic1pan~s gression. He mentioned tl!e pres- Will be attired m their academiC sure of population in Italy, the caps and. gowns. . . flagrant unemployment ex:istant in Followmg- the mvo.cabon by Dr. Italy due to the lack of a :favor- Edward Ellery, chmrman of the able balance of trade and tbe ab- faculty, the names of the valedic- sence of a large world market. He torian, Ken.neth Roberts, and those stated that Ethiopia was a. rich and holding stage appointments will be fertile land, suitable fo1· white set- read by President Dixon Ryan Fox. tlement, which was in need of de- Those holding stage appointments velopment and that its develop- include: Burton B. Delack of Sche- ment would mean the salvation for nectady, Michael E. Fiore of Sche- Italy's starving population; nectady, Harold S. Howe of Scotia, . . Robert S. Langer of Troy, Robert D1sputes Itali~tn Stand C. North o.f Walton, Carl E. Olsen Duane Featherstonhaug-h '38, as of Center :Moriches, Donald Truro- second speaker of the neg-:ative dis- bull of Johnstown, Michael Tytko puted the argument that Italy was of Schenectady, and Donald C. Mil- overpopulated and stated the land ler of Troy. in Ethiopia was unsuitabl.e f<lr col- The singing of the Alma Mater, oniZatlon except for a s:rnall sec~ following the benediction by Dr. tlon. Ellery, will conclude the exercises. Seniors in Traditional Gathering Take Leave of Undergraduate Life Albany Medical College has the greatest number of Union seniors accepted for next term with 10, Friday, J\Ule 5.-In their last the poem which he had composed while the New Yorlt Homeopathic informal gathering together as an in honor of the class and the oc- and Flower Hospital was second undergraduate group of Union Col- casion. th . t h'l Spot.\ Most of the wr1't1'ng 1's con- Ruth Nelson, Patricia urp y, cast about for some mg o w 1 e th · fa'! versation, following the usual pat- Rosemary Jackson, Violet Kovacs, away the time, ere lS one un L - tel'n.\ Elizabeth Bertelson, Patricia Sulli- with three. lege, the seniors this afternoon At this .point, with poetry and Ten to Albany toolt traditional part in the Class prophecy taken care of, the keep- ing source of entertainment-not C1 N 11 p 1 H 1 to mention education-in the cha- \Loolt at blond in back row on van, Very egg, e au , e en this side on end. You can just see Smith, Marion Ellis, Edith Bennet, P el hymnbooks. · F f tl h el the top Of her head.\ Dor1s enner. A generation o res. ess c ap -. hi s· D t<-~ t b with en \Yeah!\ P 1gnta e...,. g oers has done a nea JO · P - h t f Ph' s· D It th bl k ges Of \Some stuff, eh?\ T e gues s o 1 1gma e a CL 'l and pen on e an pa d R 1 D k R t . \ Or bl'ts like the following: \Did will inclu e: os yn wors y, · ose Those who will attend Albany Day exercises in the gro-ves of ing of the jug came to an end, and .Medical College are Melvin T. Bo· Jackson's Gardens. Before a large John F. Kearns and Charles Ken- right, William Maguire, George crowd of relatives, guests and nedy assisted the seniors in for- Ward, Robert Wells, Charles D.· friends, the class of L98S. made tifying themselves for the rest of Stmard, George Putman, Michael ceremonious farewell to the good the eerenony. t he books. The \inscrip 1ons may h L · Fl d f u you ever notice that guy's Adam's Simon, Dorot y evme, orence be g rouped roughly un er 0 r s 1 · M · Selma d apple ac ross the hall?\ Bernes, Y VIa orns, headl 'ngs: art, poetry, pros€, an hb E t II S A It is the \chronology\ that seems Hirsc erg, s e e ommers, nne J. Tytko, Peter Szyjkowski '35, and things of youth, smoking the pipe The pipe orator, Carl E. Olson, James Palmer. of peace and drinking from the in delivering his oration, traced Those accepted into New York jug of good fellowship. h Homeopathic and Flower Hospi- While the seniors sat ·encircled t e prog-ress of philosophy in tal are Anthony Fantauzzi, Michael around the ancient :Nott Elm in America, touching on the early E, Lavorgna, and Roger Sherman. the center of Jackson's Gardens Calvinism, Deism of the Revolu- chronology. th fi t to be most popular with the chapel- Gales, Pearl Lee Provda, Mae Among chapel . artist~ e rst bot·ed. One individual recorded Cohen, Betty Schiff, Esta .Jaffe, rankl ·ng subJ'ect IS Fel1X, the ca • B h k' M F · d fal 'thfu!J.r the time of each Sund.ay Helen as ev 1n, ary rancts Wl 'th the Goon a close secon · ' · Lill' Ad! F M t mornl ·ng prayer for the entire Stern, · tan er, ranees an- sketches Of P eople are frequen ; F D Ell Sh' 1 y t •\ A school year 1925·26. Other chron·. nes, ranees rooz, en Ir e , the favorl 'te captions is \Nu s · 1 s · AI' J ff M · L th iclers bring the record up to Feb· Pear tem, xce a ·e. anon e- fairly good rep resentation of e · d s !rna Atebought Dr and ruary 19il6-although the gaps are vme an e . . . anterior portion of a cow is some· large' between dates. The marker Mrs. William Gould, and Dr. and tl ·mes accompan1'ed b\' the words: d M I Sh 'ro will be ch·~p ' got marked-when someone recor · rs. saac apt .. - \Have an udder.\ . b Its f s erones Dr. Larrabee has serious riVals ed Dr. Bacon's o or a sem~ - . h' G D It ter. Another book contains a hst The guests of P 1 amma e a in the chapel poets, a survey by a of eight faculty names, with the will include: Mary Decker, Dee Concordl ·ensi's repor·ter shows. Just F It J. N ncy Fairbanks F~ances words \Dedicated to the ac.u r, esse, a , • an example: who bolt this chapel serv10e. Dearstyne, Evelyn Connelly, Mil- \Ben be nimble .. 1935 's worst event,\ a writer re· dred Schneider, Betty List, Jane Ben be quick · orts \May first--·Wold speaks for Griswold,. Betty Boyd, Ruth Over- Ben jump over the candlestlclt. ? 5 . utes \ Someone with a rather baugh, Etleen Doyle, Hannah Par· • ~ min · M W'll' K J' B Ben Bernie. ' d memory notices that \D'Oc Iter, 1·s. 1 1am eens, r., ea- The prose seiections contain a 5o~ gave the same speech to-1 trice Buckingham and MargUlel good number of musings thus:. r way 1 29 that he gave last~· Newberry. Mr. and Mrs. Leo Perry \Chapel on this day was lousy, day, .. seA~d ~n October a, 1933, and Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Marone \Mac is phooy. Nuts!\ \What is r.~~~ity made a good crack!' will be chaperones. this, a history lecture?\ \I am get- The others and the places they the final adieux were made. Ora- tion, the revival of Idealism, the will attend are Clarence L. Clark tore commenting on the past, pres- Pragmatism of William .James and at St. Louis University School of ent and future of the class of 1936 John Devvey, and prophesied for Medicine; Clement A. Finch at the gave a multi-viewed picture of the futm·e a philosophy of realism Rochester Medical School; Ewarl their mates. touched v.oith idealism. The domi- W. Henry at Johns Hopkins Medi- The seniors, conducted through nant note in American philosophy, cal School; George Krayem at the the campus by Class ~arshal A:r- he said, is idealism. Western Reserve School of Medi- thur A. Bullard, filed into Jack- The singing of the class· song, cine; Virgil Sager '35 at the Syra- son's Gardens, singl11g college composed by Charles L. Reid, was cuse University School of Medi- songs. Once gathered around the next on the program. 'Then Es- cine; August Swyka at the Louis- 400-year-old Nott Elm: tbe class mond Gifford gave an interesting ville, Ky. School of Medicine; was addressed by Guy (J.r!swold, outline of the class's history in George 0. Truex jr., at the Uni- president, who introduced the var- a parody· of The March of Time. verstiy of Louisville School of ious speakers. The seniors, having concluded • Medicine; Byrne W. Mayer at the Donald Trumbull, In a unique their last traditional rites as un- Long Island Medical College; Rich- and interesting series of thumb- dergradu:ates, listened as Presi- ard L. Woodruff at the Rochester nail sketches, pictured. many of .dent FOlc: spoke briefly In farewell. Medical School; Esmond W. Gif- his classmates as they .would ap- After a singing of a college song ford <Lnd Homer D. Swaxt at New pear in his prophecy. 'r1len Robert the C1ass Day exercises were corn- York Unive1·sity, Bellevue. . S. Langer, as class .poet, recited pleted. I I I

Four THE CONCORDIENSTS, SA. TURDAY, JUNE 6, 1936 ~irnsis \A C11usa PerJa Parole ll.ssai\ FOUNDRD 1877 1935 Member 1936 f:\ssocialed Coaeeiate Press Distributor of CoRe~iate Dieest :Sole a11<1 exclu:;tve uaUouul advertlt.,llil' tetJreseulalJ ve::~ NA'l'IIIJ'\i.,\J, AIJVEHTl::liNU l::l!,HVJCI•;, luu 4!W ~ladi::,uJJ t\Vt'IIIJt! New York L:ity Chicago - llostuu - l:illll Fnwcl~cu - I.u .. A ugele~ l'urlluucJ - HeuLLlt --- --~- ----- ----- The official newspapet· of lhe slullents of Union College. Published Tue,;llays anu .!•'lidays lltt oughuul the college year, exce}>t durittg Clu h;tma:o ami bJ>l'Wg recesses. l.'ublicalion Office, The Gazelle Pres::;, :i34. Stale Sl., Schenectady, N. ll., Telephone 4-4141 Entered al the Schenectady Posl Office as Second Cial:ls Mail Matter ------- Sub~:~cti}JLlOU pr·ice lt'i ve ceul::> u copy; $3.00 a yeat; tlt:Ji~~eu .::u~ w~:::_c _I_t:~~~ ~uilet!_~~les. IJ!uiturial ltooml:l, ::-lilliman Hall, Union College Campu::~. 'l'elephoue, :Schenectady, 4-013_:!_. __ _ Senior Board Norman R. Stewart ... _ ....... Editor-in-Chief Chi Psi Louge--4-6527 S. Ralph Cohen ......... _ .... Managing Editor 16 ~r. ::;. ::;. c.-4-1173 Fenton A. Gage .................. News Editor J.>dta Up:;tlon Hous~-4-7922 Milton D. Bedell. ................ Sports Editor IJelta Upstlou House-4-iH22 Oonald Ford ............. Circulation Managet Kappa :-.'u House--4-iJJl James w. Righter .......... Business Manager Kap!Ja Alpha Ludge-4-~122 Junior Board ASSOCIATE Edward Barry Julius Bundgus EDITORS IN APPRECIATION OF THOSE DEPARTING This summer ma11y members of the fac- ulty are to resign from an active life on our campus to continue their fruitful endeavor elsewhere. Whether for better or fol' worse, we sincerely hope that they will cherish their associations with Union to the same degree as do we students. They will not find, we think, a more friendly atmosphere in which to work, nor will they find the rela- tions of students and faculty so refr€shingly intimate. This is truly a unique feature at Union. Without exception these men h~ve coll- tri.buted to the c<J!lege to the extent that Union has benefited by their presence on the faculty. We have had the opportunity of coming in contact with and absorbing their personalities, whieh are, after all, the major assets of teachers. In measure to the type and extent of eaeh personality each one of these professors -was successful. We must .examine ourselves to find out whether or not these men have projected any part of themselves or their enthusiasm for what they teach to us. When this fact is true, and each individual is the best judg.e, then we must acknowledge their achievement. Little is known, as yet, of their succe::;- sots, but we surmise that the administration COLUMN \The year is dying in the night\ play bridge and don't do any- or-, at any rate, ·In the early morn- thing foolish like trying to in.g. We feel, of course, that it be-. climb the Methodist church hooves us to say something ex- steeple. t1 etnely, tf not painfully, appl'O- ·And we ·envy them the quiet re- priate. We promise, however, that b 1 t will be brief. It is too hot tht::; .spec'ta le faculty lives that they. lead in their faculty homes with evening for long speeches. We pre- theh~ faculty wives. sent: J!,R:A.GMENT OF A CLASS POEM to be tound UNDER THE NOTT ELM in June, 1996 This is a simple little ditty ad- dxessed to the future. .As to whether you want to I·ead it or not, you can suit yourself. But betore And we envy them their tactful minLstration . unto one ,another of mutual, care- ful, never-overdone admiration. · But most of all we ertvy them the fact that they almost always have an ·audience, and on .tbat account we tender them a 'large burst of our .ap- plau<lience. we become :outl'iciently delirious to. be ·mistaken for a. valedictorian or For- we .have always wanted an a faculty member we will be seri- audience ourself that would ous . . . have to sit and at 'least pretend And we are ~H'opetly gtateful, a::> to lhsten. we should be, that we didn't So whenever we think of the fac- have to learn everything in the ulty our heart beats higher and schoel of hard ltnocks. our eyeballs glisten. .. and we pay our respect::; to Dr. Dixon Ryan -- But then, of course, that will be no mot·e than he expected, and not half so well done as if he'd done it himself. Our papers are all corrected, a.nd June is a static month between growth and fruition, Here is a little suggestion wh:Lch Is sure to make things hum in the t<Jr.ture chambers and sadist staJls :of the time to come. We believe that the plight of a strip-tease girl with no one to undress to isn't one bit worse than that of a professor with no one to pro- fess to. and a time for- waiting and a little worrying. We have paid our last tuition, and given an attentive eat te the So lean, suppoose someboy were to chain up all tile faculty, like Dr. Ellery, Dr. March, Dr. Ligon, Dr. Kello.gg, Dr. soandso and soand soand so and so and Dr. Bronner sepulchral valediCtions of the Dean; s<> what more opportune time could there be to wish a few remal'irs off on the faculty? in We approve of the faculty. They are all fait·Jy nice people 'I'hey eat, and drink, and talk, and separate empty rooms and let 'em talk! Just a bunch of prophets without any honor! Willard Dean Robert Doig Robert Ferguson Hyman Enzer- Henry Hartmann Melvin Muroff Carl Trahman Sophomore Board has cadpably filled these positions, soon to be '•l Now Show•\ng ~ vacate . In bidding- farewell to our depart- ing friends we extend the heartiest welcome !.!.;;;==========--~ .And that settles all scores for this yea~:·! But we'll be back. .And we'll spend the whole summer thin.king up the first dirty crack. F. H. Assistant Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, E. Houghtaling, P. Humphrey, F. Saidel, D. Taft, R. Walter, R- Morgan, D. Miller, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Sherman, J. Smith Saturday, June 6, 1936 Managing Editor .......... S. Ralph Cohen Assistants to our new associates. HALE HOUSE, A FINANCIAL DILEMMA H. Hartmann H. A. Enzer R. Ferguson Through the beneficence of our many good F. Hequembourg friends, Union has fallen heil' to a g-reat number of unique and expensive gifts, such as the Commons and Hale House, the reha- With this edition The Conc01·diensis sus- . . . . . IJilitated ground floor of Silliman Hall and pends publication until the begmmng of the p f S 'th' G ' . . ro essor mr s eology Hall. The donors next scholastic year m September. It also f th d'd . . . o ese I more than their share to aid in takes the opportumty to wrsh all of Its read- the greatest I'econstruction movement held in the college since the early part of the nine- ers an enjoyaiJ!e Summer vacation. teenth century, when the dormitories and In the Lime between this and the previous issue of the Concordi- ensis, the motion picture palaces of the town have pursued their own even course with little that is bad, much that is mediocre and a fe\v scintillating spots of bright- ness that more than compensate the weary reviewer for sitting through all the rest of the dull- ness. 'I'wo pictures in this time are noteworthy for entirely different t-easons, each representing a phase of cinema as a good example. The one is the filmic translation of Lillian Hellman's \The Children's Hour,\ the other is the three-hour b~ographical s·peetacle, \The Great Ztegfeld.\ E:ach pictuJ e had its own pecu- 1 liar difficulties to overcome and each did It well. The case of musi- cal spectacle is the more acute be- cause there has been so much bad wor-k in that medium. The makers of the Zieg'feld picture were ap- pat·ently fully conscious of the pitfall~ of bad taste which so many of thetr contemporaries have fallen with the result that extreme care colonnades were erected. was visited upon the film. In the three hour running time FOND F AIREWELL However the l>oanty of th.eir generosity the life story of Ziegfeld is fiction- b I . b'l't I i.zed into a coherent dramatic story The four-year vacation with pay which may ecome a Ia 11 Y un es.s someone re- interspersed with scenes from vari- ends for a small quarter of the student body, lieves the college of the expense of maintain- ~~; ~~ ~~! ~~~~~~;i~~s~~~~ ~~!: brings with its conclusion the usual varied ing these improvements, and the most dras- quate to the task. Acting is gen- tl ·c eCOI10mi' h 1 d b d · erally of a high standard. Powell results. Some have learned how to spend es · ave a rea Y een rna e, 1 t as Ziegfeld is perhaps more charm- money, and some how to appear as though must be remembered. An endowment of lng than his· original. Frank Mor- d · t' t · gan was as funny as we have come they were capable of earning it. Another so~e escr1p 1011 0 msure against failure t<J expect. Louise Rainer is a group has obtained a substantial background might_ well b~ . made by some interested ~~;~e~frv;\ 0 ~~~~es~ndB~r i~xtJM~r~~ for more specialized study which will enable a~umm, ?r addl_ti.onal funds presented to aile- Loy we were rather disappointed. VI t th d t I t' 1 Her part was small and she didn't them to carve a fairly large chunk of salt a e Is con I Ion. n par Icu ar something do it too well. r think the indict- from the world's material riches. A still must be done about the finances of the Com- ooent is, \laclt of versatility.\ It h d But the most delightful part of smaller number have developed themselves ~ons. as npel'a.te so far as a conven- the whole affair was the restraint far enou(J'h to really enJ·oy the search for Ience, and a very expensive one at that. The with which the spectacular musi- \' cal scenes were handled. The pre- knowledge, to appreciate some small part of upke~p of such a magnificent hall as this cedent of extravagance with taste runs mt 1 f' 'th • \d f l tllat Ziegfeld had set up had to be Notes On Our Contemporaries NYA Example A Northwestern University traffic violator was given a $25 fine re- cently and told to work It out in the police station. * * • It's Wind Both Ways The University .of Florida is de- veloping a process for location of hurricanes by static. * * * By Six Years! Cornell scientists are beginning a six-yeat· search for adult diets that will inctease longevity. * * • About Time Princeton students have organ- ized a \pressure group\ against the Supreme Court. * * • Pretty Paradox: Dr. L. F. Campbell of Rush Med- ical College has the answer to a fat man's prayer: a reducing diet that allows heavy eating. * * * What'll They Do With Them:? Rare and ancient books by Ara:bic scholars were d·lscovered during a cataloguing of Oriental manuscripts at Princeton. * * * Collapse of a System The University of California foot- ball stadium rests directly over a \fault\ which could cause its com- plete destruction during an earth- quake. * * * From Acorns, etc. The foreign language house plan, now widespread in .America, origin- ated at the University of Wisconsin. * * * Habitual Suicide Colby College may move from its 118-year-old site in Maine to a new location two miles away. * * • All Rhodes Lead To- Thirty-one British students will study in American universities this summer . * * • Not Very Surpl'isiug The roots of human social con- duct can be found in the chimpan- zee, according to Yale biologists. the great expanse of the universe. These 0 arge lgures WI SIX pal ema e f<>llowed and at the same time his men have fulfilled the true purpose o.f higher helpers, .waiters, 1\llr. Cease, the caterer, a.s efforts had to be surpassed for a t·epetltion of his stage 'effects education. However few the number, these expense Items. Someone must bear the bur- would have been fatal. Under these students have J'ustified the existence of the den, when the students fail to give it ade- strictures the producers presented som.e spectacle that deserved the prolongation of dependency. quate support, and who should do it more well-used phr~e. \breath-taking.\ natur II th th d · · t t• Zlegfeld was outshone, taste was The college is not very sad to see you go. . ~ Y an · e a ;mmLs ra IOn, overtaxed respected and the effect was won- hPossmLE?-not at all. Year :&er year Long Distance telephone service grows longer In reach-shorter in the time needed for making connec- tio-ns-higher in quality of transmission-lower in cost. To say that it is, would be at least an ex- With 1ts own economic problems already. derful. In particular the sequence e>f \.A Pretty Girl is Like a Melody\ aggeration. You who are endowed with the Subsidies of one sort or another will have was expertly handled. The gradual potentialities of success will seek fur.ther to be made this year from the coffers of the build-up of spectacle effect is as- t<>unding and should be a lesson honor elsewhere. You who are not, will at college treasury; but can this body continue t<> other producers. Try to see thiB I t ak t k h film. before it is cut down for gen- eas m e room for further raw material o rna e up t e rleficit? Unfortunately, it el'al release. perhaps with more potentialities. Gradually, cannot, so that the next best thing must be 00 ~~: ~~~~t~~i~'Jh:;e tJ'ehr::r~~;rr!:!~ the college will progress towards that id€al resorted to, and that is outside subsidization play, is a signpost on the way to set forth this year by President Fox, division or endowment. Therefore we tum to that ~~~~~r~!~e~:~lf ~~:h ~~~i~#~rt~ 1 ?t of \head-workers\ and hand-workers.\ group most fitted and most interested in the two young women to run a girls' U · '11 If school and the break down of their mon Wl grow, barring· unforseen misfor- we are of the c-olleg-e, the alumni. work by a lying pupil who charges tunes. To. you who have added something As a reminder to those in charge, the ~~rf~::: P~~~~!a~h-:milv~h~li~~ towards th1s grow~h, the o~portu?ity is hum- tennis .cou~, so Iecently in the process of persons touched by t.he lies of the bly extended to Witness with pnde the fur- spreadmg wmgs and flying a-way, need con- y-og~~o~;~~ it was out of the ques- ther development. To you who have filled up siderably more clay put on them, and nets tion for the motion pictures to take f f t:he story over bodily. Miss Hell- space or our years, may you capitalize in mended, or replaced, and the wire back stops ooan was engaged to adapt her the future on what potentialities you may reinforced so that the balls will not ski'd oVIn play and the result was at- roost better than the stage play. possess. under the bottom. In the film a young doctor becomes . (Continued on Page 8) Since the first o£ this year, Long Distance calling has been made cheaper in two ways. 1. Rates ru:e now reduced after 7 P.M. each night on perscm-to·person calls to most points. As formerly, station. to-station rates are lower after 7 P. M. 2. The same low night rates now apply all day Sunday on both types of service. _ J~st another proof that the Bell System is constantly striVmg to fit telephone service more closely to your needs in every possible way. Why not take advantage of these rr11. \B \k · l a•oga1.n ours to eep z;n c oser touch with home? Festiv~ \Count Play of Especia EIE The annat George .Ade's politics, \Th· will be the tl Mohawk Dr season, camp the ,theatrical year on the •l The selecti line with the : duce represen ranging fron \The County last week by ' much critical .tion of a defi: lean scene In lent of Amei wit made fa1 and Artemus 'QUE According County Chair tery, sex, crir plications. It hood faction feuds in a dec It is homely ~ tempt to go eighties' that ties and reprc temper and crudities as 1 settlement of from the allu ing influence: Charles D. the Festival, · of Jim Hack man, as he d several of T also appear il tion. Other p members of 1 fessional com have achieve in the theatr Last summ and over 15,( drama lovers United States a cordial wel• Coburn and t the season plays, each f trata,\ \The 1 SOl',\ \Rip V world premi, \Master of t1: This year': six plays of u ing from tra1 resenting si:l! playwriting are Shakespe· !dan's \The Hazelton and low Jacket,\ man,\\ The Moliere, and new play, \M lin will play 1 Rivals,\ and ists will appe JAMES E Prescri ] Gent~t·~ IIOt Uuimt 3 Hlocks I'll Alu H~ Sc:

in of by ot- a its ew his THE CONCORDIENSIS, SATURDAY, JUNE 6, 1986 Five Festival Produces \County Chairman' Bttil'ding Class Problem ils Reality for Darrow f'he Concordiensis B:inds the Laurel- - .. Play of American Politics Especially Pertinent in Election Year , A class ptoblem in a college ·bllllli:iing construction coutse turned oot . to have unexpected practical. appl:!.cation for Chester s. Danow On P1Hze Day the faculty demonstrated what it thought or .s.cotia ·this week. · of the student booy. Monday, they will have their say in the A combined 1estau1ant ·and hom-e, which h? designed as a part Clmferring ·of degl.'ees. The worm has turned. The Concor<li- of class work, 1s now in the course: ' tlt .1 • • • • f th The announcement today that of construction at Wyatt's Cor- ellSIS, as e stu11ent organ, now gives Its opm10n 0 · e . George Ade's comedy of American -ners on the Amsterdam Road. instt-uctors. politics, \The· 'County Chairman,\ l¥hile -~he majority of the stu-: will be the third production of the deontoo taltmg Professo 1 · Robert Ab- i On the following faculy brows,. then, we bind the laurel . Mohawk Drama Festival's 1936 b • · · e:ts course were content to use! f()t' work .t·hat -has· been whole-hea1·ted an.:~· successful. It ·I·s season, completes the schedule for stendard models and carry their! 'U the .theatrical organization's second pl;ans through only to the con-, n()t a complete list, fo1· all departments are not ·equally pub- year on the Union College campus .. llll:'uc:tio d t ·1 · Th 1 t' · · · n e ar 8 ' Darrow heardi liei\zed· ·Bu'· 1'n any·eas\' 1's a token that we mean well. e se ec 1011 ·of the play is in that fnends were planning the new: ~ \\ line with the Festival's desire to pro- btLilcl.ing, and decided to try his 1 • duce representative types of ·di•ama, ·ha.ncl at it. : ranging from tragedy to comedy. ''J.lh<e final resultl:l we!'e so attrac-· \The County Chairman,\ revived tlvre \that the builder, L. Van Buren,! last week by Th~ Players Club with is now finishing a two-story, 30x30 •. much critical acclaim, is a de linea- foCJt stm:e and home, with an area • ,tion of a definite part of the Amer- of 1.0,500 cubic feet. The plans l ican scene in the 1880's. It Is redo- :!Darrow made were complete to:' lent of .American wit, the sotot of. th~ . de~ails of heating, lighting,: wit made famous by Mark Twain -~enttlatlOn and equipment. and Artemus Ward. 'Queer Eighties\ .According to George Ade1 \The County Chairman contains no mys- tery, sex, crime or triangular com- plications. It deals with neighbor- hood factions and local political feuds in a decidedly one-horse town. It is homely and it is largely an at- tempt to go back to the 'queer eighties' that preceded the gay nine- ties and reproduce something of the· temper and the atmosphere and crudities as they cropped up in a settlement of corn-fed natives, far from the allurements and distract- ing influences of the big city_\ Charles D. Coburn, director of· the Festival, will play the title role. of Jim Hackler, the county chair-: man, as he did In the revival, and. several of The Players cast will also appear in the Festival produc- tion. Other parts will be filled by members of the distinguished pro- fessional company, many of whom have achieved nation-wide repute in the theatre. Last summer the city, the state, and over 16,000 patrons, including drama lovers from all parts of the United States and Canada, extended a cordial welcome to Mr. and M1·s. Coburn and their company. During the season they presented four plays, each for one week: \Lysis- trata,\ \The Merry Wives of Wind- .lrme Finds Prexy Busy Giving Dozen Speeches President Dixon Ryan Fox -wl>ll definitely !no:t vacation during the month of June, if the ·list of his speaking engage- l!nents means anything. Twelve in number, they include speeches at occasions ranging l'r~m the bicentennial celebra- tion of the General Electric to l:he centennial of Alfred Uni- \Vel:'sity. The list fol10w;;: .June 3-.Albany Girls' Acad- oen:ty; June 4-Albany Law ~cbool: June 6- -Union Alumni Junclleon; June 7-Union Bac- ocalaureate addrel:ls; June 8- ...A:lbany Medical College com- Knencement; June 10-.Alfred 1Jn iversity Centennial and com- l!lle.ncement; June 12-toast- l!lla.ster at the bicentennial celEbration dinner of the Gen- era.! mlectric; June 13-Bolton's Landing; June 23-.Albany Sta:te Teachers College Cam- Ille ncement; June 24-Platts- fuurgh High School commence- E!llent; June 25--Bethlehem Centra! High School cornmence- E!lle nt. sor,\ \Rip Van Winlde,\ and the -;:;;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;==~ world premier of Don Marquis' . ii \Master of the Revels.\ This year's Festival will offer six plays of universal appeal, rang- ing from tragedy to comedy. Rep- resenting six distinct periods of playwriting and production, they are Shakespeare's \Macbeth Sher- idan's \The Rivals,\ George C. Hazelton and Benrimo's \The Y el- l ow Jacket,\ \The County Chair- man,\ \ The Imaginary Invalid\ of Moliere, and Edgar Lee Master's new play, \Moroni.\ Margaret Ang- lin will play Mrs. Malaprop in \The Rivals,\ and other noted guest art- ists will appear. JAMES E. DAY, Optician Pt·escriptions Filled or Duplicated Gentlt·al Repair Work fiOt Unio11 St., Cor. Uarrelt. St. 3 H!ocks Below College Gate !'HONE Z-3464 T.J.KING Florist Flowers for Every Occasion Ovet·head Crossing-State St. PHONE 4-6444 HENRY·s BA~BER SHOP BARBERING and ~ANICURING 10 t--1. Y. C. Arcade Alumni and Their Guests Will Be Welcome at the HALE HOUSE Dining Service a Ia carte Open throu<Jh l\4;011day Evening The Lounges Will B.e Open From 9:00A.M. t() 1():00 P.M. Saturday, SundaY and Monday EDWARD L. CAREOLL, for the development of an outstand- ing cantpus theatre. RUSSELL A. HALL, for the ad- vancement of the civil e!Jlgineer- il1g field. W.L.LLoJA.I:fl W. , for Ius W()rk as co-ordinator of stu- ilent activities. f()r slpml service in a Iooy post- ll>S actiiig librarian. For House Linen Servi~:e PHONE 4·3166 AMERICAN. COAT. APRON & LAUNDRY COMPANY 1030 Barrett St. the reorganization of the intramural sports scl1edu!e. SAMUEL L. LEONARD, for his promising experimentation in the fteld of biology. for his consistent attempt to to the undergradua.te a deeper ap- preciation of music. Schenectady EngravinCJ Co. Engravers for the Concordiensis 147 JAY STREET Telephone 4·9002 PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. Ferry Street Sc:henectcady. N. Y. SlltCE 1903 - - - Brandhorst's Have Served Union 1 s Sons and Nearby Community Brandhorst Pharmacy \'ON THE CORNER\ Union St. and Gille~pie Edw. H. Bra.ndhonit, Reg, Phar. L. E, Brandllorst. Reg, Pha.r. WPA. Writers ChieJ Reunion Classes Meet for Dinners Most Classes Met Last Night To Renew Friendships; 1916 Dines Tonight Friday, JWle a.-Commencement week-end was begun auspiciously tonight for the more than 1,000 alumni returned for their respec- tive class reunions at dinners in ali parts of Schenectady. List of Reunions The class of 1881, the oldest re- union class, met in the newly-built Hale House at 6:30 tonight for the reunion dinner. The Van Curler Hotel was the scene of three re- unions, with the class of 1884 at 6:30, the class of 1896 at 6:45, and the class of 1901 meeting at 7 o'clock. Almost as popular as a meeting place was the Mohawk Golf Club, where two classes dined. The class of 1911 met at 7:30 and the class of 1926 at 7 o'clock. 1886 met tonight at 6:30 o'clock at the Mohawk Club, and 1932 dined at the same time. .At 7 o'clock, 1906 ate at the Edison Country Club and 1921 met at the Tavern. The class of 1931 held its re- union at the Hotel Mohawk and 1933 met at the Municipal Golf Club. Both of these dinners began at 7 o'clock. Wainger New Head Of WP A Enterprise English Professor Succeeds Adams of Cot·nell in Writers Project ALBANY, N. Y.,Junel.-Appoint- ment of Dr. Bertrand M. Walnger, assistant professor of English at Union College, as dkector in New York State of the WPA writers' project, was revealed today at the .Albany office of the administra- tion. Lester W. Herzog, upstate direc- tor of the WPA, confirmed this · today. Adams Former Head The position to which Dr. Wain- ger was named was formerly that of Dr. Bristow .Adams of Cornell University. The WPA writers'~­ ject is to compile, state by state; data to be published as \The Amer- ican Guide,\ comprising historical and other information of all locall- tles in the country. It is designed for the employment of jobless writers. Dr. Adams was dropped fr:om the project as the result of a clash with other administrators over \the avowed Communistic activities\ of one \Wallace Miller, class of 1922, Stanford University,\ an official of the writers' project. Not to Leave Union Dr. Wainger will spend the sum- mer in intensive work on the pro- ject, but will not leave his .position at Union. He came to Union in 1927 as in- structor in English, and was ap- pointed to his present rank in 1930. He received his doctorate of phil- osophy from Cornell in 1934, after working there under a Cornell Fel- lowship and conducting research under a graduate scholarship in English. His undergraduate days were also spent at Cornell, where he re- ceived both Phi Beta Kappa honors and his B. A. degree at the end of his junior year . .As a senior he stud- ied in the graduate school and was awarded the M. A. degree in 1925. For Good Food Without Frills NICHOLA US The Old Reliable 266 State St. JANTZEN BATHING SUITS WIKIES TRUNKS ALLING RUBBER CO. 254·8 State St. COLLEGE INN .RECENTLY REMODELED DANCING - BEVERAGES SANDWICHES 1526 VAN VRANKEN A.VE. FAREWELL GRADUATES • THE ACME BARBER Always welcomes Union College Undergraduates and Alumni. \NEAREST THE CAMPUS\ 509 Union Street l I I i I i '

Six Undefeated Trac·k· Squad Seores Five Straight Wlns Burton :u;igh Scorer 'Yith N·I·n· ·e E' nds s·eli:l:son' 63 Pomts· Nag G. · . · · u u. Smith Folio~ With Alumai Today Of the Union spring sports teams the Garnet track squad was the' Seven Seniors 'Play Last Game most ouustanding. VY1th five wins and nu losses the Willord H. Ketz As Dutchmen Complete aggregation compiled a perfect rec- Mediocre Season ord. 'l'he well-balanced t1ack squad opened the season by an over- whelming victory from Massachu- The Garnet balltossers wiH close setts State, taking every first place a mediocre season this aftez·noon and Winning by a score of 103 2 - 3 ·on Alexander Field when they to 22 1-3. J:tl:lchester was ne~t to A . · :t :all before the Union track and stack up against the lumm nme at 3 o'clock. The Dutchmen, who field men in a fairly close meet, have won only three of their seven the .tally being 82 to 44. In another · contests played, will lose 7 regu- so-called close one, the Dutchmen lars through graduation. subdued the Unive1sity of Ver- mont to th tune of 89 to 36 . At Co-captain Al Stevenson will Hamilton on May 16 the Ketzmen coach the team from behind the f th bat this afternoon because of piled up their biggest ;:;core 0 e Coach G. Elliot Hatfield's absence . season winning 108 to 18. Last week the Garnet ended their per- from the campus. The Alumni will feet season by defeating their tra- face the same lineup that has been ditional rivals at R. P. 1., 92 to 34. playing for the Dutchmen all sea- son. Guy Griswold, who pitched a Outstanding Team one-hitter against Hamilton, will Individually as well as collec- start on the mound. Ernie Brown tively the trackmen were out- will be at the initial sack, Mike standing. Co-captains Emory Bur- Fiore at second, Harry Marra at ton and Leon Naguszewski were short, Dave Cadwallader at third, the greatest point-scorers, garner- Billy Brandow or Phil Duchscherer ing 63 and 44 points respectively. in left, Manager Jimmy Marotta in The only new record established center, and Doug Lambeth in this year was made by \Nag\ as right. Lloyd Waters, Van Ladd, he broke his own shotput mark and Don Buchanan may also see with a throw of 42 feet 9 inches action in the annual fray. in the last meet of the season. Hamilton was then set back by Grant Smith was also a consistent a 15-0 score on Griswold's one-hit scorer taking a first place in the pitching performance. The River- high and low hurdles in almost men from Rochester surprised the every meet. Captain-elect H. Sher- Dutchmen by taking advantage of man Hirst foliowed closely in the the breaks and winning 12-6. Hank scoring with his performances in Brinker was knocked from the box the dashes and the broadjump. He in the third by the Garnet but and Burton are co-holders of the \Ves Van Graafeiland pitched ex- broad-jump record of 22 feet 2 cellent relief ball for the Yellow- inches. jackets. With the game apparently Individual scoring: Burton 63, won in the sixth inning, the Dutcb- Naguszewski 44, G. Smith 40, Hirst men blew up against Mass. State 37, Shields 29, Bastedo 29, Hawkes and came out on the short end of 26, Glen 28, Krull 26, Bloom 22¥.!, a 6-5 score after they had led Ross 21. Neumann 20, Fryer. 18, 5-0 up to the seventh. This game Day 14 5-6, Milano 14, Gammons marked the final appearance of 9, Myers 8%. Doyle 7, Kreusi 6, Coach Hatfield on the Union cam- Van Wert 5 1-3, Saiewitz 5, pus in his official capacity as var- Hewitt 3. sity baseball coach. SOFTBALL STANDINGS-1936 Entrance Additiilnal Won Lost Points Points Total Alpha Delta Phi ....... 11 Alpha Phi Delta 3 Beta Theta Pi .. ·······. 7 Chi Psi .......... ·····. 9 Delta Chi ...... ······· .. 0 Delta Phi .............. 9 Delta Upsilon ........... 7 Kappa Alpha • 0 ••••••• 0 4 Kappa Nu •••• •••••••• 0 11 Kappa Sigma 0 ••••••••• 2 Phi Delta Theta ....... 6 Phi Gamma Delta ..... 1 Phi Sigma Delta • 0 ••••• 8 Phi Sigma Kappa ...... 0 Psi Upsilon ............ 5 Sigma Chi •••••••••••• 0 4 Sigma Phi ....... ·····. 5 Theta Delta Chi 0 •••••• 4 Theta Nu Epsilon I oooo 5 Neutrals ................ l North College .......... 2 South College .... ·····. 1 Wittner Announces New Sports Managers fo1· '37 UNION COLLEGE, June 4,-J. Harold Wittner, Director of Athle- tics, today announced the appoint- ment of managers for the spring sports of 1937. Robert D. Everest '37, of Glov- ersville was appointed manager of the varsity lacrosse team for next year. David L. Ring '37, of Sche- nectady was appointed manager of next year's varsity baseball, and Charles H. Reeves '37, also of Schenectady was named to the post of manager of track. The varsity manager of tennis will be Walter Horstman '37, of Erie, Pa. Managers of the fresh~ man teams will be Robert Galuten '37, of New York and Harold Freedman '37, of Schenectady, for freshman baseball and freshman lacrosse, respectively. 2 50 84.012 134.612 7 50 23.076 73.1}76 3 50 53.844 103.844 4 50 69.228 119.228 9 0 .000 0.000 1 50 69.228 119.228 3 50 53.844 103.844 6 0 30.768 30.768 0 50 100.000 150.000 6 50 18.182 68.182 2 50 54.546 104.546 7 50 9.091 59.091 2 50 72.728 122.728 10 0 .000 .000 3 50 45.455 95.455 4 50 36.364 86.364 3 50 45.455 95.455 6 50 30.768 80.768 5 50 38.460 88.460 7 0 9.091 9.091 6 50 18.182 68.182 8 0 7.692 7.692 Geology Exhibition Open The Wheatley Mineral Collection, now housed in the new Exhibition Rooms in Geology Hall, will be open for inspection during the commencement week-end. The Elite Tailor It Pays To look Well PRESSING • CLEANING REPAIRING CUSTOM TAILORING GENTER'S GRILL • We feature home cooked foods and serve varieties of fine mixed bev- erages. New Banquet Hall for all occasions at no cover charge. VANVRANKEN at HATTIE ST. A. J. Genter, Prop. Tel. 4·2580 THE dONCORbiENSl'S, SATURDAY, JUNE 6, 1936 Track Coach--Two Stars Varsl '\ty Sti•ckm· en· ''year. The ~u~Ameri~an playe;s. on · · .· · . the :A.lumm team w1ll be Wllllam PI A l • T d ·Nor1•ls '22, Freddy Wyatt 'il2, ay ·· 'fl:lffiftl · · () · ayi GecHge Potter '29, T. Finegan '33, : and 'Chauncey Woote '34. ·. Jack Smith, who has .found the Lacros Team Ends S · net 27 times this season,. has been . se ' . ' eason , norainated to the 1936 All-American In Annual Alumni Duel lacrosse squad along with 33 other W 'th p R d candidates. Smith is a junior and 1 · oor ecor ~ is affiliated with the Psi Upsilon . fraternity. , The Union ·Stickmen wiU close• -------------- .• their season ·this morning on Alex-· -,=============it · ander Field at 11:15 against the'• li : Alumni. Victors in only three of' . their seven contests to date, the· Dutchmen hope to overcome the·· All-American ·studded Alumni ar- . ray and' end the year with a 5{)-50 'average. Coach Bill' Harkness will start· · his usua:l lineup .of Burns Barford: , in the nets, Don Liffiton at point, . , Bill Potts at cover point, Hal Van- .. decar first defense, Johnny Mar-• sella second defense, Elliot Fraser · at center, Avt Lawrence second at-· tack, Jack Smith first attack, Cap- · tain Hugo Bergman out-home, and , Ken MacMuvray in-home. Berg- man, Ray Robinson, Hamar Swart, and Howie McGovern will all be lost to the stickwielders next year. The varsity .stickmen will be out to break the Alumni5s win of two straight wins. The contests were inaugurated in 1933 with the var- sity winning 5-3. The Alumni won by a 9-5 mai,gin in '34 and then smothered the varsity 11-3 last FOR BETTER AND QUICKER SERVICE 'CALL BALL•s Phone 2~3456 or Bring Work to o 3 3 State Street BALL'S Cleaners and Dyers Inc. Shoe Rebuilders :1 lb. Carlson's Paste Wax . . $ .49 Jerry Neumann, Coach Wilford H. Ketz and Ed Bastedo of successful track team 2 ,lbs. Carlson's Paste Wax .98 Complete Intramural Totals For 1935-36 1. Phi Delta Theta ........ 1100.089 2. Phi Sigma Delta ........ 1099.226 3. Psi Upsilon ............. 1008.251 4. Chi Psi ................. 1002.915 5. Sigma Chi. . . .. . . . . . . .. . 976.679 6. Beta Theta Pi. ....... ,. 889.781 7. Sigma Phi .............. 888.556 8. Kappa Nu ..•........ , .. 845.670 9. Delta Phi ............... 830.110 10. Alpha Phi Delta ........ 781.485 11. Neutrals ............... 725.339 12. Alpha Delta Phi. ...•..• 689.860 13. Delta Upsilon ........... 680.891 14. Theta Nu Epsilon ...•... 658.894 Try New MOBILGAS Friendly Service by the Socony Twins TED and JED UNION and JAY STS. SCHENECTADY 15. Phi Gamma Delta ...... 635.441 16. Kappa Sigma ........... 570.506 17. North College ........... 564.661 18. South College ........... 464.175 19. Kappa Alpha ........... 407.769 20. Phi Sigma Kappa ...... 286.502 21. Theta Delta Chi. . . . . . . . 279.515 22. Lambda Chi Alpha ...... 180.449 23. Delta Chi. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131.131 Nationally Known Executive Seeks College Men For His Sales Staff An extensive advertising cam- paign is being initiated for our present sales staff. This prom- ising oil development organiza- tion, headed by a nationally• known Texan who has been highly successful in developing oil properties will add college graduates with excellent records to their staff. Unusual oppor- tunity, complete training and cooperation. Liberal commission basis of remuneration. Write sales manager, 521 Fifth Ave- nue, New York, Suite 1115. REGNIER'S Aladdin Sweet Shop 232 State St. CANDY LUNCHES SUPPER Home Made lee Cream FAREWELL GRADATES of 1 9 3 6 HEALTH, HAPPINESS AND PROSPERITY WHERE E'ER YOU ROAM. Electric Wax Polisher, per day . I .00 ~~l::m::::::::::::::m:::m:m::m::m:::::::::m::::::::::::m::::m::m~::m::m::::::::m:::::mm::::::::::::::;:::::::::m:ni rn rn ::: m ~~ CONGRATULATIONS, ~ m U' ·N. ION GRA. DUAT· ES m ill m ill m ~ ~ ill m ill ill ~l ill ill m ill m ~ ~ ::: , ::: ill m ill m ill m ~ ~ ill m ill ill m m . m GAZETTE PRESS Hi ill ill m m iH Schenectady,. N. Y. jH ::: ::: m m i!i.:::::::::::m::m::::::::::::m:::::::::::::::::m:n:m:::m:::m:::n:::::::::m::m::m::m::m:::m~:m:::m::m::mm:!ii WELCOME ALUMNI NE\ER A BETTER PLACE TO MEET AND REMINISCE. • UNION INN BEST DRINKS BEST HOME MADE SANDWICHES ALWAYS A CHEERFUL ATMOSPHERE 517 Union St. Phone 4·2536 Tennis Vermm The ten ocre seaE with Vern 6 to 3. Tht of the do singles m~ Gee at m straight s1 Salad, ant combinati< A revie finds that were dispE and losses viable, e~ years. Out were .foe : They each encounter! Cohen, 1 returned attuned ~ strong an play last 1 lack of co even, at tl ever, after nament te erable am• ity to his as a good ture from felt. The per ley was v• despite th four of l The major outstandin lege circle ber one c finals of collegiate Varsity Amherst V;Lrsity . Syracuse Williams Syracuse Colgate . \\'Rutgers . Hamilton -Rochester Colgate . R. P. I. Vermont Frosh Pawling . R. P. I .. Bill Ket Union out season wl others, vi events, to1 little spec Looking some are hit by 1 team prol effects a~ imported hands full a winning Co-cap tail Stevenson that the two have bJnation I pulled ma Next I player Jii credible j and the t• healthy a pose he I that depa galloping ing the fl seen con; by the fe Two oJ Union h~ Dave Ca< ·-are sial which IE ..__::,starting 1 will prob Brownie bag-Mal erer in t Dave Mi promises sity and get a !itt a pitche1 Ketz ' record with twc zewslti ! cently b1 shot an vault re< M< RES

on '32 '33: the een oe THE CONCORDIENSis,··sATURDAY,--JtJ:NE ~6.~1936. -.-: ~-.:: Tennis Team Overcomes Alum:oi Return Sti-rs Sports Memories Vermont As Season Ends' Once Union College had a -bowl- extra-_curt•icular actlv-lties, but no ing alley -undemeath the Old Gym- collegiate competition was started The tennis team ended a medi- nasium, and ·once Union entered The athletic doings which con~ ocre season in its last game· a crew in the· Saratoga Regatta, cerned the Union boys were not so. with Vermont by winning handily and once· bicycle racing was an much contests with other instltu- 6 to 3. The only losses came in two, important event on the schedule •Of tlons, as games .amongst classes of the doubles contests and in a track meets> but those days seem clubs and societies. In 1885 th~ singles match. Captain George Me- ~one forever. It ·is at the present: Glee Club atHl the baseball team Gee at number three post fell in tune wt;ten so many ·of ~he alunmi bad a brawl on the playing field, .straight sets, while he :paired with· of. Umon retutn for another the latter 01 ,ganlzation demanding Salad, and the Hallenbeck- Baxter g.Jtmpse at the_ old. college, that tjlat \two hours was sufficient\ for combination were stung by defeat.. me.mories are 'Stirred of what ath-. the .basketbaU .players to practice. A review of the whole season. lettc comp€titlon meant in 1876: Th_ e real f.ights, when they were finds that the victories and losses and 1886. _ . he1d, occurred between the North were dispersed evenly at five wins In. 1859 the -fust mterco!legiate and South College men. One foot-. and losses, a record, while not en- baseball .game was reported be- ball ·season the North College dar- viable, exceeds those of recent, tween. Amherst and Will~ams, with: mitories won 13 to the South's 5 years. Outstanding in matches Won the fmal score amountmg. to 73·. games. A note in The Spectator de- were .'foe :cohen and Bernie Salad. ta 32. A year Ia;ter the Washmgton : clared that the rea.son for South They each won seven of their ten, Ba.seba:ll ·Club on the Union cam-. College's losses was due to the fact encounters. pus was repo-:vted in The Concor-: that many men came from Cohoes Cohen St:l!ong diensis as one of the most .popular and Albany and had to .Jeave early. Cohen, who graduates this year, returned to the team with well HORSESu attuned weapons, particularly his. ; · : nOE RESULTS-1936 strong and steady backhand. His Matches Entrance Additional pla.y last .season was marred by a· Won Men Forfeits Points Points Total Jack of confidence in his shots and Kappa Nu ..• , . . . . . . . . . . 3 6 2 5 10.713 35.713 =~=~.· :itet~~e~,u~~~r h~T~~i~£ ~~';=: ~~h~e~i 1he~~: : : :: : : : i5 I~ ~ 10 ~ ~~:~~~ ~~:~~~ ::~~:ta:~~~· ~e s~~~~;d a~dc 0 f~~~t ~~~t~~y~Da _ ~~~:~ . : : :: :: : i~ 1 ! ~ ~Ni~ ~~:m ity to his strokes, and now ranks · Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . 8 11) --10 25 28.568 43.568 as a good performer. Joe's depar- · Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 8 25 14.284 39.284 ture from the courts will be keenly ' s· Ph' 4 8 25 14 284 39 284 felt. tgma t . -.. .. .. .. .. . . . Chi Psi ,. .. . .. .. .. .. .. . 3 8 -10 25 10.713 25.713 The performance of Fritz Haw- Kappa Nu . • .. . . . . . . . . . 3 6 25 10:713 35.713 ley was very credible at all times, Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 14 25 10.71:3 35.713 despite the fact that he won but . Theta Nu Epsilon . . . . . 1 6 25 3.571 28.571 four of his singles engagements. Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . 1 4 25 3.571 28.571 The majority of his opponents were Alpha [)elta Phi . . . . . . . 1 2 25 3-.571 28.571 outstanding players in small col- North 'College . . . . . . . . . . o 2 25 .000 25.000 lege circles and AI Winston, num- Kappa Signta . . . . . . . . . . o 2 25 .000 25.000 ber one of Amherst, reached the Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o 4 25 .000 2ti.COO finals of .the New England Inter- · Lambda Chi Alpha 1 2 -10 25 .D-00 18.571 collegiate championship. Phi Ga~nma Delta 2 12 -10 25 .000 22.142 SPRiNG TENNIS RESULTS-t93() Matches Entta.nce A.dd.itlonal W.on Men Points Fnrlelt:~ P()ints 'I'oU\1- Chi .Psi ........•....... Phi Sigma Delta ...... . Phi Delta Theta ...... . Sigma Phi ............ . Kappa Sigma ......... . Psi Upsilon ........... . Theta Nu Epsilon ..... . Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . ... . Kappa Alpha ........ .. Delta Phi ............. . Phi Gamma Delta .... . Kappa Nu ............ . Beta Theta Pi ........ . South College ......... . Delta Upsilon ......... . Alpha Phi Delta ...... . Alpha Delta Phi ...... . Lambda Chi Alpha ... . Phi Sigma Rappa ..... . Neutrals ............. .. North College ......... . Theta Delta Chi ...... . 15 13 :!5 -20 65.000 80:000 14 7 :!5 60.662 95.662 11 8 85 -10 47.663 72.663 13 9 85 56.329 91.329 9 3 85 -- 10 28.997 63.997 7 9 a5 -ao ao.331 35;331 5 3 :!5 -10 21.665 46.665 5 3 35 21.665 56:665 5 5 35 21.665 56.665 4 4 31>- 17.332 52.332 3 5 0 -40 12.999 3 5 3[i 12.999 3 3 35 12.999 2 3 35 8.666 1 3 31> ,....ao 4.333 0 i) 35 .000 2 4 0 --40 8.666 0 2 0 -20 .000 1 1 0 4.333 0 2 0 -10 .000 0 5 0 -40 .00(} 0 3 0 -20 .000 47.999 47.999 43.666 9:333 35:000 Oha.mpion-1\lar.vin Dw-ore defeated Can•, Ka,pl>a. Sigma in fiiJals 64; 6-2; 6-1. AMERICAN A-1 LAUNDRY 20\/o DISCOUNT CASH and CARRY 1030 Barrett St. PHONE 4-3166 UMITY-NOBBS Men's Furnishings Full Dress Accessor:ies GIJS KEEFE 104 B;ROADWAY 2 Doors from State St. Season's Scores Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . 2 6 -10 25 .000 22.142 ~t .............•........ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i V<:trsity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- Syracuse ...................... 5--4 in the R. P. I. meet to better this Williams .... _ ................. 2-7 recor.d-the pole falling after Em Syracuse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . rained out had been in the pit for a couple of Colgate ....................... 6-3 seconds. -'Rutgers ....................... 2-7 Joe Milano and Charlie Krull will Hamilton ..................... 5-4 fade out of the field events-both· -Rochester .................... -~-1 , could be depended upon to take Colgate ...................... ·t.-7 points when they were needed-Ed . R. P. I. ...................... ~5 Bastedo, probably the most consis- . Vermont ...................... 6-3 tent miler and cross country m.an · Frosh ''U 0 that Bill has handled and Jerry Pawling ....................... 5-2 Neumann, cross-country and half- GENERAL OFFICE EQUIPMENT CO. 140 Jay St. Phone ~-9677 Drafting Supplies Paper Pencils - Fountain Pens TYPEWRITERS CLARK WITBECK CG. 416·418 STATE STREET R. P. I ........................ 6-{) miler, go the way of all graduates · -Clark Shields-hurdler for four · New Used We app~eciate your patronage. In the fall we shall again be ready to serve you with our quality merchandise. \For Alma Mater\ years is on his way-Leon Saiewitz, . Repaired Rented sprinter, follows in his teamm11:tes ··~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i By MILTON D. BEDELL steps--Johnnie Ross, quarter-mller · and a .good one, also leaves the competitive field. Bill Ketz's track team is the only Union outfit to come through the season with a perfect record-the others, via numerous unfortunate events, took it on the chin and did little spectacular. Looking over the various teams- some are going to be pretty hard hit by graduation-the baseball team probably will feel the most effects and \Duke\ Nelson-newly imported coach-will have his hands full when it comes to putting a winning combination on the field. Co-captains Guy Griswold and AI Stevenson are the greatest losses that the nine will experience. The two have worked as battery com- btnation for three years and have pulled many a game out of the fire. Next In line comes manager- player Jim Ma:rotta-he did a very credible job in the center garden- and the team seemed to look fairly healthy aftet• the trips so we sup- pose he treated the boys right in that department-Bill Brandow and galloping \Doc\ Lambeth are leav- ing the field and will no longer be seen conversing with the fair ones by the fence- .. Two of the best infielders that Union has had in quite some time- Dave Cadwallader and Mike Fiore --are slated for other roles. All of which leaves little material for ..__::,starting posts next yea.r-Van Ladd ·will probably be behind the bat- Brownie has the initial sack in the bag-Marra at short-Phil Duch- erer in the field-and then what? Dave Miller is one freshman who promises to be of aid to the var- sity and perhaps Colby Jones can get a little more control and make a pitcher of himself-. Ketz will lose some of his best record makers-again we start with two co-captains-Leon Nagus- zewslti and Em Burton-Nag re- cently beat his own record in the shot and Burton holds the pole vault record-Em missed a chance MORRIS SAYS: The stick:imen will lose Captain Hugo Bergman, MacGov~rn,, Swart. -the imposing roster of JUmors on· the .squad seems indicative of a really good :year next spring-here's. hoping the -wind is that way-. Van: Waldron and Phil Little and Bob Langer are lost to the golfers. The. tenniseers will .feel the loss -of Joe Cohen and Clem Finch, George Mc- Gee and John Hallenbeck-Mr. Achilles has found some talent in the first year class, however, and things don't look too badly fot· the coming season. We'd like to extend our congrat- ulations to the captains who are to be elected. this afternoon-and those already elected. And hope that they all have successful teams next year. With that parting, so long until nex:t year-have fun a11d stuff. M.D. B. Compliments of Fra11k Ferraro FRUITS • VEGETABLES of Fine Quality 1231 Crane Street PHONE 2-7828·W \A hearty handshake to all you seniors: may all your fondest dreams come true.~~ COLD'S RESTAURANT TAP ROOM DELICATESSEN 631 STATE ST. A LE~OPARD CAN'T BUT PALM BEACH CAN A leopard's spots are there to stay, but a spot on a Palm Beach suit vamooses beautifully in the laundry. However, you don't collect many spots on Palm Beach. Its smooth, fuzzless fibres baffle dust and dirt to beat the band. So Palm Beach suits need fewer cleanings than most. And the resilient, patented weave of Palm Beach bounces wrinkles off just like worries o.ff a chorus girl's brain • . . hence your suit needs fewer pressings. Upkeep on a Palm Beach suit is as comfortable as P'alm Beach itself. In white and a big galaxy of colors and patterns, •. all hand~ somely tailored by Goodall $16.75. NUSBAUM'S Are you int_e~est­ ed in the career of some --student at Are you interest- ed in reading stu- dent interpretation of ,everyday events in college 1 No need to ask questions. you will In short, keep • 1n closer contact with • your progressive college by taking The Concordiensis. The subscription price is only $2.00 for 60 issues. Subscribe now and have your name on the mailing list next fall to receive the first issue. Send your check to Donald Ford, cir- culation manager .. DEAR DON: I enclose cheek for $2.00 for 60 issues (full year's sub· scription) of The Concordien• sis. Make checks payable to The Concordiensis.

Eight Union Will Confer Academic Degrees On 170 Gra.duates 145 Are Bachelor Degnes to Class of 1936; Th·ree Arc Masters 12 Pharmacists Fox Will Aso Award 10 Law, Med Diplomas as Symbol Of University President Dixon Ryan Fox will confer 170 degrees in College and University departments Monday morning at the 14lst annual Com- mencement exercises. In addition to the 145 collegiate degrees, he will also award 12' di- plomas to graduates of the Albany School of Pharmacy and ten to representatives of the medical and legal schools of the University. Three masters degrees in scien- tific f!edls will also be awarded. •rJIE LIST OF CAXDIDATES The candidates for college degrees are as follows: L\NIO:S COLI.EGE Daeheior of Arts David C. Beeker, Garden City Henry \\\. Brandow, A thetiS E:mery \\'. Burton, Jr., Albany William D. Cashman, Albany Clarence !.,. Clark, Ballston Spa Joseph T. Cohen, Albany Earle ::-!.. Cooper, Delmar Burton B. Delack, Schenectady Albert B. Diumante, Scheneetady E:tlward C. Diamond, \Vatervliet John L. Doran, Schenectady Arnold E. Dubb, Schenectad~· John K Duncan. SchenectadY F're,lerlck Dunn, Srltenectady I r\'ing llwor~ltr, Schene<'tady LeHnl' !JyaJ, Jr .. Bloomfield, :-;, J. Alvin· J. ·Bffron, Brooklyn John B. Bmans, Schenectady Anthony J. Fantauzzi, !\!echunkvllle :\!arlo l<'avoriti, Newburgh J. Duane Featherstonhaugh, Sdtenec- tadr Llclllt'IIt .-\. Fit\ Ia, tiluVl·L:\Yille ,\rthur J. r'irth, Jr .. Sch<'llL•dady Hugh F. !<'itch. Jeffersonville William J. Fl:,·nn, Schenectady Nelson A. Foot, Jr., Pittsfield Wallaee T. Foote, Port Henry William Freedman, Albany Leonard \\'. Oane, Auburn John 0. Gawne, Albany Esmond W. Uiffor,l, Saugerties Vt?dder :\I. Gilbert. Amsterdam Charles A. Gilmore, Jr .. Schenectady \'llllam r~. Goff, Plattsburgh :\lorton I. Gold, Schenectady !<'loyd W. Goodrieh, Rome Guy B. Griswold, Jr., Coatesville, Pa. John D. Hall, '!'roy John L. Hallenbeclt, Glover><ville Earl W. Henry, Olean John F. Kearns, l!~onda William G. Keens. Jr .. Albany Charles D. Kennedy, Larchmont James K Kimball. Jr.. Sprin!;(fi.,!d, l\lass. William M. Kline, Gloversville Oeorge S. Krayem, Kingston William D. Lambeth, Sehenectadr Hobert S. Langer, Troy Harry U. Lee, Troy Ir\'ing Lif~et, Schenectady Philip Little, l!I, Minneapolis. :\linn. William C. :\laguire, Alban).· \'irginio :\!artin, Sr.henertady Byrne W. :\layer, Brooklyn George A. l\lcGee, Peeltskill Collins 1~. McGovern, Cartha!;(e John A. McGuire, Schenectady John !:3. :\!<!Knight, Amsterdam Robert J. McManus, Sehenectady George \\· Melinette, Brooklyn Joseph E. Milano, Sehenectarly Donald c. Miller. Amsteruam William H . .Milne. Jr., Srheneetady Robert 0. ~elson, ;-.iew l\!ilford, ronn. Robe1·t C. ~orth. \Valton Carl E:. Olson, Center Moriches Thomas :-.:. Palmatier, Stillwater James L. Palmer, Schenectady \Villiam H. Park<:r, Jr., Danielson, Conn. '• THE CONCORDIENSIS, .SATURDAY, JUNE 6, 1900· Student Tax Allotments for Next Year WEEK-END CALENDI\.R Today Activity Tax Grant for 1936-37 Athletics ..................................... -.--- 3:00 p. m.--Baseball, Varsity vs. Band ......................................... $ 262.15' Alumni, Alexander Field. Concordiensis ................................. 2480t00 5:00 p. m.-President's Recep- Debating . . .. . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300.00 tion, .President's House. Garnet ....................................... 21.00.00 7:30 p. m.-·Alurnni Night Fes- Glee Club . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 815.00 tivities, Alexander Field and Idol . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 552.0(} .Mum.n! Gymnasium. Model League . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150.0(} Tax Grant t;Qr 1.935-36 $18000.00 200.00. 3000.00. 300.00. 2300.00 1525.00 450.00 184.00 . 1500.00 FROST & RiEYNOLDS \:-. f., h '• ·t·c • . :rrm ers · · 430 S~T~l ST. :.. \·, ' Fraternity P~l~*i;g a Specialty Interested i11 Schn1ectad:y l11ttrested i11 UNION : ~ ' \' ·· Maurice B. Graubart The Jay Street Jeweler 166 jAY STREET Tomorrow Mountebanks - . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675.00 Outing Club . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65.00 11:00 a. m.-Bacca:Jau1eate Ex- Publications Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140.00 SHA'W-WA•LKER OFFICE EQUlPMENT Watch a11d Jewelry RepaiPing 140.00- .. 100.00 Telephone 2-7871 a Specialty erc!ses, Memorial Chapel. Radio Club . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . 100.00 Dr. Dlx:on Ryan Fox, speaker, Student Activities Office . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 640.00 on \A Kind Word for the Pur- •. U. C. C. A. . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 150.00* ltan.\ Total ..•............................. $8279;15 _6_o6_.o_o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~§§~~~~~§§~~~~~~ $28305.00 If $ 37.00 4:00 .p. m.-Baccalaureate Reci- Student Tax: (based on 770) .....•........•....• $ 11.00 tal, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, or- (based on 765) ganist, Euterpe Club, Mendels- sohn Club, Schubert Club, * This amount is a loan to the U. C. C. A. granted by the Committee. Troy- Vocal Society. Monday 10:()0 a. m.~141st Annual Com- mencement ·Exercises, Memor- ial Chapel. Hono1·ary Chancel- lor George Lyman Kittredge, speaker. . Tax Fees Reduced $27 for Ne~t Year Laurence 0. Welsh, Schene('tady Theodore H. Wilmot, Schenectady nan!el I~. ·wahl, Brooklyn Ril'hard L. Woodruff, Rome :\lorto-n· H. Yulman, Schenectady Addenda 19ll5 John I. Argersinger (in absentia) Curtio> H. Greene (in absentia) William 1'. Christian (In absentia) Francis V. Chonski Bacltelor of Science ~I.,ll'in T. Tioright, Rouses Point mchael H. Lavorgna. West Haven, Conn. Hannon<] F. Robinson, Troy Hoi>ert E. Russell, Schenectady Alvin \\an Valkenberg, Jr.. Schener- tady Benjamtn J. \Vllson, Schene<'tady Salm tot·e Zambito, Jr., Marlboro naellelor of Science In C!vll Engineel'lng l'arl II. Bergman, Worcester, :\la$s. :\!iehael B. Flore, Schenectady Hubert 1\!. Leith, Scotia Willla!ll N. Lester, ·Central Bridge James V. Marotta. Scotia. Gerard A. Neuman, Brooklyn Thomas D. Randall, Johnstown l'!arl>: •r. Shields, Montclair, N. J. .\lbel't H Stevenson, Brooklyn lltHht>l~>r of Seience in Electrlt·ul Engineering Edward H. Bastedo, Irvington Ambrose A. Bullard, Stormville David B. ·Cadwallader, Palmyra {lonald L. Engesser, \Vatertown Howard G. Earls, Schenectady William J. Green, Brooklyn Philip Hutt, Schenectady Williah S. Irvine. Hillsdale, N. Y. Charles ~L Krull, Lynb1·ook Willis B. Plummer. Toms River, ::-1 • .T. Chnl'les ~!. Taylor, Elmira Douglas F. Warner, Short Hills, N. J. \Vi!llam 1>L Wheeler. Westfield, N. J. Addenda 1988 William E. Parry Bn<•helor of Science in Chemistry KennNh .r. Frederick, Scotia But Saving, Minus a Dollar Is Added to College Tuition Charge Next year's student tax: will be $11 instead of the usual ~38, the student tax committee announced today. The reason given for such a large reduction was the recent action of the college trustees transferring the -financial control of all the ath- letics together with the disburse· ment of the salaries of faculty ad- visers of the Glee Club, the Band, and the Mountebanks from the Tax Committee to the college au- thorities. The decrease in the stu- dent tax will probably be compen- sated by a corresponding increase in the tuition charge. Among the thirteen remaining activities supported by the Tax Committee five will receive less money next year and three will re- ceive increases in appropriations not counting a loan of $150 which will be made to the College Chris- tian Association since that organ- ization is sponsoring the freshman camp at Lake George. In order to increase the efficiency of the ad- ministration and financial account- ing through the Student Activities Office The Model Assembly and the Model Council have been com- bined into one organization, the Model League, and the appropria- tion covering both activities re- duced by $34. Now Showing (Continued from Page 4) engaged to one of the women and the lying girl charges him with improper relations with the other young woman. Samuel Goldwyn, who produced \These Three,\ says that in matters of taste, if his wife likes it, it is done. The department salutes Mrs. Goldwyn for her excellent taste. \These Three\ moves surely and strongly through what in less ex- pert hands could have been a bor- ing picture. Acting by Bonita ·Gran- ville, Merle ·Oberon, Miriam Hop- kins, and Joel McRea was perfectly suited to the vehicle. The atmos- phere that surrounds the film is characteristic of all of Goldwyn's productions for United Artists and is produced by the extreme care and expense that go into his works. And the Summer We thank everyone who has read this column even occasionally. It , has been our aim to tell you what the pictures are, why they are, and when to stay away from them and when to go. A reviewer's job is primarily reportorial and his taste never suits everyone. We hope to be back next year. JOHN B. DOWLING. TONY SHARPE. PEOPLES' FOOD MARKET • We deal only in high quality ·meat products and groceries. Our customers demand the best at a fair price. This fact plus good service are our merits for reputation. • -- PEOPLE'S FOOD MARKET • • 1291 Rugby Road Tel. 4-4461, 4-4462 Oustal' F. Hallstrom, Verona, N. J. Herman D. Kluge, Philippine !><lands :\rirlmel Priznar. Cohoes l>ona.lol W. Streak, Plattsburgh The largest reductions will affect the Concordiensis and the Mounte- 1 banks while the Garnet will also · lose $200. The reason for :reducing 1 the Mountebanks allotment from ~1500 to $675 was the fact that the position of graduate manager was abolished. The three increases will go to the Band, whose appropriation was reduced $800 last year, the Idol, and The Outing Club which received no financial aid last year. Practi- cally all of the Outing Club grant will be used to rent a cabin at North Creek which is used mainly by skiers. ''I'll See You At- Baelulor of Sf.'ienre In Physics Clarlc Berlcett, Cardenden, Scotland Harold S. Howe, Scotia Charles T. Male, Jr., Schenectady • Honor Men •• I·:Iert ed to L'nion College chapter of Phi Eeta Kappa. •• • Elected as associate members of the Vn ion College chapter of the Socle ty of Sigma Xi, national hon- Ol·ar:~o• scientific society. •••• F.lerted to full membership In Sigma XI. :\In.stor of Se!enell In Elcctrieal Engineering Howanl M:. Crosby, Bacltelor of Sdence in Electrical Engineerinl'o'. l:niver· sit)' of ::-Jorth Dakota. 1929. Willi hattemann, Electrical Engineer- ! ng, Polytechnical Institute Il- rneaau, 1925. 1\Iaster of Science The Van Curler • William H. Parsons, Peterboro. N. Lawrenre F. Paulus, Rhine.beck George W. Putman, Albany H. Harry n. Summerhayes, Jr., Bachelor of Srience in Physics, Union Col- lege, 1935. In figuring the amount of aid given to each activity, the Tax Committee tries wherever possible to make the activities self support- ing and has attempted to encour- age this by not allowing funds from the tax: which could possibly be obtained by conscienscious effort on the part of the business mana- gers. In line with this policy it is figured that the Concordiensis will be able to derive one third of its operating cost from the proceeds of advertising. Likewise the Glee Club is expected to earn more than half of its funds, and the Mounte- banks are estimated to earn $825. Headquarters at this Modern Charles H. Quandt, '\Vaterfonl Charles L. Reld, Jr .. Sclrenectady Forrest W. Reynolds, Elmira :\Iorris Rig.hthand, Schenectady John ::-1. Ross, Albany Leon J. Saiewitz, Schene-ctady John B. Sawicltl, Amsterdam Derrick A. Sherman, Flushing Roger n. Sherman. Brlarcli ff :I! a nor Robert T. Shreve. Schenectady Charles D. Stinard, Albany Homer D. Swart, Schenecta<ly August Swyka, Schenectady George 0. Truex, Jr., S~henectaoly Donald Trumbull, Johnstown Van Vechten Trumbull, Schenectady Miehael J. Tytko, Schenectady James H. Van EPP~. Schenectad;- Charles S. Van Wormer. Bridgeport, Conn. Van Antwerp Waldron, Schenectady George J. Ward, Cohoes George R. Warner, Philadelphia, I'a. Robert J. Weiler, Gloversville Recognized For Quality and Service Robert E. Wells, Schenectady 3 Wall St. Compliments of IIJOE\ POLLAK CAMPUS ELECTRICIAN Phone 4-8818 \Headin' for the Last Roundup\- in College activities-yes, for the present-but not in those of Life. Diversion is refreshing if it has been earned through Work: Following Work, THRIFT should be closely associated with Diversion in \headin' for the last roundup.\ The rewards of Thrift give Poise to life. Put Your Se~vings in a SAVINGS Bank Schenectady SAVINGS Bank Where Clinton Crosses State Hotel you of an en- joyabte commencement week-end assures • The Tap Room and adjoining open- terrace are ideal places to meet class mates and friends. They need no introduction.



