, Mrs. E. N. Betts, Mrs. L. B:J.l'l'Y, C. !lis T. Mrs . . Rice, J. Bryan e, Mrs. W. Baker f New • 1936 Jl:INIOR PROM 1936 JUNIOR PROM Vol. LIX., No. 55 PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MAY 1,1.~36 Campus Dons Gala Dress as Prom Festivities Open New Mem hers of Council Announced This Morning Everest, Smith Stewart, Brown, Potts; Snyder, Gat- chell \Tapped\ to Compose 1937 Terrace Council The names of the 17 members of the Student Council, who were elected Thursday morning, were announced by Charles Krull, president of the Student Council, in the Moving-up Day exercises todaywhich were culminated l.Jy the tapping of seven new seniors to the Terrace Council by their predecessors. Those seniors who were elected~·--------------- are Ernest C. Brown, Franklyn F. Converse, Robert D. Everest, Frank B. Gatchell, Jr., H. Sherman Hirst, Richard C. Kennedy and John Kline Sloatma,n, Jr. Snyder New Head Of Tax Committee The five juniors who were elected to the junior board are Winterton U. Day, Herman J. Greulick, Jr., Frederick B. Hawley, Jr., and J. Vincent Smith. The four sopho- more delegates include Jacob Ama- zon, Wallace ·F. Baker, David Miller and Benjamin Rathbun. Tenace Cotmcil The members of the out-going Terrace Council tapped seven new seniors as the whole class marched around the aisles of the chapel. Those who were tapped are Robert Everest by Guy Griswold, John Smith by Joseph Milano, Norman Stewart by Albert Stevenson, Ern- est Brown by Phillip Little, William Potts by Charles Krull, Richard Snyder by Van Yechten Trumbull and Frank Gatchell by Van Ant- werp Waldron. Ernest C. Brown, co-captain of the football team and regular mem- ber of the baseball squad, is a mem- ber of the Beta Theta Pi fraatern- ity and resides in Mayfield. He al- so is a member of the Junior Prom Committee. Robert Everest Robert Everest is a member of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity and lives in Gloversville. He has been a member of the Student Council for three years, of the Sophomore Disciplinary .Committee and served on the Junir Prom Committee. Passenger and Achilles Also Named to Control Body; Wold Is Alternate Richard Snyder '37, was an- nounced as chairman of the Student Tax. Committee today to succeed Burton Delack, who will graduate this year. Richard Passenger '37, and Laurence Achilles '38, were also appointed, and John Wold '38, was cho;;en as an alternate. The new chairman has acted on· the Committee for the two years since its inception. He is a head of the Model Assembly of the League of Nations and president of the International Relations Club, in which organization he fostered the I. R. C. broadcasts. At the recent Prize Day ceremonies one of the Allison awards for debating was conferred on him, for his work on the debating team. He is a member of the Alpha Delta Phi Fraternity. Richard E. Passenger is the sen- ior member on the Committee. He has been the pi'esident of the Ger- man Club and received the Carl Schurz prize for pl'Oficiency in German. He is affiliated with the Chi Psi Fraternity. Laurence Achilles transferred from Williams this year, where he was a member of the Sigma Phi Fraternity. His position on the Tax Committee is in the capacity of secretary. Frank Converse of Mechanicville is chairman of the J.upnior Prom Committee. Frank Gatchell is associated with the football team and is college wrestling champion. He lives in Baltimore and is affiliataed wlth the Psi Upsilon Frataernity. He served on the Junior Board of the Student Council and is photograph- ic editor of the Garnet. Sherman Hirst of Mechanicville These members are appointed by the president of the Student Coun- cil, Cha1·les Krull, with the advice of the past Committee. The new president of the Student Council, will become a member ex officio, and Anthony D. Hoadley will con- fer with it to decide budgets for student activities for the year 1936-37. II AJ...; Hosts, Entertainers for Prom Weekend THE 1937 PROM COMMITTEE, which ends its arduous tasli to- onight when Isham Jones strikes up the band. In the p1cture are, left to right, seated, Ernest Brown, chairman Franklyn F. C<>n- verse, John Marcella and Frank Phillips, standing Lawrence Clin- ton, Robert Everest, Frank Gatchell and Jay Sloatman. Atl ... College Dance Tonight Attracts Feminine Guests Isham Jones and 01·chestra to Play for 1937 Junior Pl'Om in Alumni Gymnasium; 250 Couples to Attend Five hundred comely feminine feet will trip lig-htly over the g-aily l.Jedecked gymnasium f'loot· tonight as the class of 1937 peesents the annual Junior Prom. The mut-1ic of Isham Jones and hi.s orchestl'a. long a popular dance band, \V ill om- vide the entel'tainment. ---------------<$> The campus will bl:! caparisoned Miner to Maestro Is Jones' Career Famed Pr01n Band Leader Owes Present Musical Vo· <:ation to Mule Accident Maestro Isham Jones who plays at t<>night's Junior Prom received his early musical education from his father, who played every con- ·ceivable string instrument. The elder Jones supported his family by mi'ning coal, and encouraged Isham to leave school at an early age and go into the mines to bole ster the family income. with a mantle of coins which will emanate from the fraternity houses and college buildings, and with well groomed gardens and lawns fur the guests who come from the many neighboring colleges antl schools. From within, too, an atmosphere of frivolity will pervade the ball room, transformed by a profusion of colored light~ which are indil'ect- ly reflected on the background. The ceiling is covered from the balcony railing to the iron girders with blue, white and gold fabrics, and the chandeliers will be chromium and tan. The front of the railing is dec- orated in royal blue and orange set off by chromium vasses containing large clusters of flowers. Special Lighting Two spot lights, one at each end of the hall, will constantly play a multicolor effect throughout the whole hall. The walls under the balcony are hung with orchid and silver, and a railing of green will separate the nineteen booths from each other at the back of which a modernistic vase will be placed, filled with flowers. Seventeen fra- ternities, the Pyramid Club and the neutral group will furnish the booths with lounges, chairs and rugs. His career a8 a miner came to an abr-upt end when he fell asleep while driving his mules, and caused a collision between his own team and the team of cars fol- lowing it. He next secured engage- .ments with several small orches- tras in the middle west. As a side line, he wrote musical composi- tions. The war came and Isham enlisted. \Soldiers of the Sea\ and \You'r-e in the Army Now\ were his products of the war-time period. After being mustered out of The Prom Committee has chosen , service, he formed his own band as the favors toy dogs of garnet ' and played in and around Chicago. and white rough felt, the pedigree · In the Spring of 1932, he began of which is unknown, and each is broadcasting over the Columbia decorated with the symbolic U oh network from the Ambassador each lap ear. A squeeze of the red Hotel, Atlantic City. More recently, stubby tail is rewarded by a shrill hCfwever, he has played at the bark. The programs are bound be- . Hollywood Restaurant and the Ho- tween a celluloid and chromium tel Commodore in New York City. cover with a silhouette of a boy and l.f Jones wished to repount his life girl on the front. hist(}!·y, he could develop from his Those in charge of this affah· ow·n expet·iences one of the most which signalizes the social debut of interesting success stories in the the class of 1937 are Franklyn Con- musical world today. But in the verse, chairman; Ernest Brown, fe-w words that Jones will relate John Sloatman, Frank Phillips, concerning hio career, he is more Robert Everest, Lauren('e Clinton, likely to stre>s his mi8takes than John Marsella and Fmnk Gatchell. hi'=> successes. Besides his wartime The patrons and patronesses for \NOAH KNEW A THING OR TWO\ especially about how t.o songs and more recently \If You tonight's function will be President build Arks, and here's the one that sails in the Mountebanks Theatre Were Only Mine,\ \I Can't Believe· and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, Dean tonight. The actors are, left to right, Anne Quigley as Mama, 'It~s True,\ and \Let's Try Again\ and Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Dean Edith Alexanderson as Ada, Douglas Stevenson as Ja,phet, Duke have been added to' the list of his and Mrs. Edward E. Ellery, Dean Fenton as Shem, Arthur Firth. as Ham, William Mulvey as N<Jah, compositions. In fact so numerous and Mrs. Ernst Berg, Secretary and (Continued on Page 6) Wining, Dining, Dancing, Fraternity Activities for Helen Loomis as Sella, and Marie Palmer as Nmma. have been his contributions that Mrs. Charles N. Waldron, Dr. and Feature . .. . .... ......... .. . . . S . 1 ~~~~i~tii~c;~~;i~:~ds~dt~~te~~e~o~~d ~~~: ~~~is~~ ~~rr:foi~~. :g~. ~~~ Ftnal Pre para ttons \Noah\ sets a I dis~r-ibu.te and pop';llarize as well as Mrs. William w. Bennett, and Pro- Weekend . For Prom Are Made For Ararat Tonight wnte h\ oornpo.•tmna. ''\\ and M,. Anthony Hoadloy. -- No Prom Worries in Simpler Days Sixteen fraternities will entertain Mr. and Mrs. Charles Stinard are their weekend guests at pre-prom chaperoning. A house party and dinner parties, dinner dances, and formal dance are the order for the dances tomorrow evening w~ch Delta Upsilon fraternity this week- will bring too a close the Ju!l~or end. For the dance Bill Mayotte's Week festivities. The fratermbes orchestra will furnish the music are turning over theil' house to the and Dr. and Mrs. Lutz and Mrs. J, girl visitors who will live there A. Streibert will chaperone. Converse to Hand Reins Over Obey Play, Last Pmdll(!tion Of Season~ Opens a.t Library Served the Purpose Well until sunday. The Kappa Alpha Society is hold- Alpha Delta Phi is holding a for- ing a house party frCfm today until mal dance tomorrow evenin~ w.ith Sunday and also a dance tomorrow Erv Doling's orchestra furmshmg evening at which Freddie Kay's or- the music. The chaperones are Mr. chestra will play. Dr. and Mrs. and Mrs. Douglas v. Smith and Mr. Burges Johnson, Prof, and Mrs. and Mrs. C. w. Snyder. T~~ Beta Mortime1· Sayre, and Mr. and Mrs. Theta Pi fraternity in add1bon to George Eaton are the chaperones. a week-end bouse party will hold -to- Kappa Sigma will dance tomorrow morrow night a formal dance. The evening from nine until _one with Orange Night Hawks will be the .or- D~n Killion's band playmg. Mr. chestra and Dr. and Mrs. Sch~Idt, and MI'S. Robert Woodworth are Mr. and Mrs. and Robert W1~ey, chaperoning. and Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Ba1Iey Phi Delta Theta fraternity is holding a pre-prom dil:)ner party to- will chaperone. h d t ow Chi Psi will hold two dances to- .night and a CfUSe ance omorr dinner dance and a evening. Dean and Mrs. Charles :~:~~w~ff~r later. The orchestra .Garis and :Mrs. Harry <?linton wi,U · D R'ttalick Mr. and Mrs. w. •chaperone. The band Will be. Loms ~ ConLe;man a~d :Mr. and Mrs. G. :Reic;ler. Phi Gamma Delta m ad- L.' Ir.vine are to be the chaperones. ·dition to a tea dance to~orro~fh~~ The Delta Phi fraternity will dance also pla~ned ~f b!v~:n~nda :n:~~· tomonow from. six to eight at Chaperorung WI d M~s Rudolf ~~~~~J'~:s. ~~~:r<tke~ftit~ftj ~i~f!~. a~~ll ~~h:;.s orch~stra will chaperone. The fraternity is also play. b f Psi Upsilon will holding a house party over the d Me: f~~~ ~en to one tomorrow w~~etticas and his orchestra will nf:~t to the music of Aus~f f!ut:; play at a cocktail party to be given ins. The c_haperonesp W1 6 } • tomorrow at the Delta Chi Houee. {Coptmued on. age To New Junior Committee Next November The Junior Prom Committee will bring to a close all its active en- gagements in the preparation for the debut of the class of 1937 to- night when Franklyn Converse, chairman of the Prom Committee, and his guest lead the Grand March. Behind them will follow the other members of the Commit- tee and their guests. The work of the Committee was effectively divided into many de- partments so that the labor was not placed pholely on one person. Every member of it was responsib~e for a particular task and to th1s end he was to give all his efforts. Whoever was' in charge of the com- mittee on favors had to chose alone the litle garnet and white dogs, a task which WI;IS his full responsi- bility. Eight new juniors will be elected next fall to take the place of the ·present on eo, Franklyn Converse, Robert Everest, Laurence Cli.l)ton, Ernest Brown, Frank Gatchell, Frank Phillips, John Marsella. and John Sloatma.n. Mountebanks Before Junior Proms in the cellar between dances that when Alumni Gymnasium were annual the affair was well under way and Ending their most active drama- social highspots, to be exact in the the dancers had repaired to the tic season in 13() years on the cam- d h b' pus, the Mountebanks Theatre will' early nineteen-hundre s, t e 1g alcove where the caterers had ar- college dance of the year was the ranged the refreshments they in- present Andre Obey's \Noah\, open- Seniol' Ball held at Commencement variably found sandwiches and ing tonight for three nights under the direction of Edward L. Carro~!. time in the college library, then caltes covered with dirt and dust. A naively satirical paraphrase o.f called the \Round Building.\ In addition to the Senior Ban Biblical story, \Noah\ is a s}lright- In those days when dancers other dances and social affairs ly account of what might llave hap- waltzed to the strains of \After the filled up the campus social calendar pened on the famous dory during :Ball\ there was little speculation of thirty years ago. There were the its voyage to Ararat. With his over the choice of orchestras and junior hops, monthly i)lformal af- children, their girl friends, Mama decorations fol' the senior dance. fairs which were very popuiar; snd the animals, together with a Before the affair a wooden floor there were river teas, whicb. were supreme faith in God, Noah em· was brought up in sections from the canoeing picnics; and of course barks; and then the trouble starts. library celler, where it had been there was the Sophomore Soiree in For with him is Ham, the doubtet otot~ed since the last dance, and laid mid-winter. and cynic. Pestering his father with over the regular stone floor. Garnet· The most picturesque event of questions and misgivings bullying bunting was draped over the the year in the days when Schenec- the younger children he becomes. a shelves of books and the fraterni- tady was still a quiet town was the general 1lluisance. ties had their boCfths in the library commencement serenading, Each The children gone, Noah is left alcoves. One of two or three Albany year at graduation time fraternity alone to realize that he· i£· growing orchestras furnished the music. groups would march along the si- old, being in the Blbliaal account After.the affair broke up, generally lent streets at midnight and sing some 400 years old by this time. at dawn, many couples would go fraternity songs under fair 1adies• The real tragedy of his situation canoeing on. the Mohawk. windows. The ladies would reward strikes him, and in an e:a:teptlonally There were bad features as well the singers with bouquets of .flow- moving speech he rebult.es God for · as good to these oldtime dances in ers, cigarettes or other usefUl items. not being entirely sports-manlike In the \Round Building.\ According The groups after they had finished His dealing \vith. him. 'I'his last to Professor Waldron the old serenading would return to the speech reache& a grande11r of emo- wooden floor had accumulated such campus singing spirited mat:chlng (Continued o». :E'a~e tl) .a coating of dust from lying In the songs. ' i•

Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1936 . . \ \ \ FILL THE GAP \11 Cl!usa Persc1 Paro'le t1ssai\ FOUNDED 1817 Prize Day exercises Wednesday might well be analyzed into three closely iHterre- l::lted events. When President Fox read the ·lists of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi mem- COLUM.N OUR OWN .E111QUETTE or Ligon. This will lteep his mind oc- cupied. 14. Don't be too plastered in front of the faculty. After all, we are the guardians of their morals. We're awfully mad about the ,early paper this week because we haven't been al.>le to get about as much a.\1 we wanted, but who are we to stand in the way of a Prom issue? I935 Me~nber 1936 A.ssociated Colle6iate Press Distributor of Co~ef5iate :Di6est • hers, many of the honor men wer.e made eveH better known because of the fact that. . they had just previously walked to the stage SO YOU'RE GO:ING TO PROM So you're going to P1•o.m. You've 15. Don't do anything vulgar, Charli'e Chaplin goes on, and on, unless you really want to. and on at the State. We never And then there is the matter of thought he was funny, so all we can dress. What is it proper to wear, d:o is to wa:rn you not to miss the and What should you be sure not to coming bill-Edward Everett Hor- wear? Feeling incapable of coping ton in \Her Master's Voice\ and with this problem ourself, we have F,red McMuuray, Za:zu Pitts and interviewed several authorities Joan Bennett in \Thirteen Hours '::;uJ~ UIIU e~clu:;ive ualioual auvertloiilU repl'esenlallveo Nt\'I'IUi\i,\1, A·UV!!:lt'l'lSl.NU ~,~,;HVJCB. tuu, 4~U :\lac.li:)Oll' AVCllUI:t New Y.oa'lt Ui ty Chicago - Duolou · Sa.• l!1raucl•co - Lu~ Augt\\\' l'oltlauLi' - l:iealUt: The official newsJJapel:' of the sludents of Uuio11 College. Published '1' uesdays anti l•:riday~:~ tlnoughoul tile colle\ge year, excepl during Christma:; and ::;p1·ing reces~es. ------ to receive tangible rewa1·ds for their intel- coughed up six bucks l $7.50 if lects and industry. The generous a·pnlause you're foolish) and there's nothing Y left for you to do but go. But at with which the student audience expressed this .point enters the ,problem of behavior. And we have not for- their congratulation was evidence that those gotten you, nor the difficulties that you'll be Hkely to face. We've com- less gifted or less industl·ious still appre- piled a useful little list ·C>f do's and don't's. just clip this; carry it date the significance of scholarly achieve- around with you, and consult whenever you're at loss. n1ent. 1. Don't forget that the Faculty .i\Iost appropriate was the address deliv- wiH be there. at least a good many of them. This will spm•e you sev- whom we now quote. by Ai,r\. Emily Post-I haven't been to a Junior Prom in thirty years. ln We couldn't get to see the double fact, I haven't ,been anywhere ex- bill at Puoctor's and had no great .cept to the public library in thirty yen to see the lrvin Cobb picture years. But here is one helpful rule. anyhow but we were told by some- Trust in God, and don't put any- one who saw it in New York that thing on backwards. \The Unguarded Hours\ (Franchot Dr. Fox-There is nothing wrong Tone a;nd Loretta Young) was with a clean sweater. splendid-we won't accept the re- i'ublication Office, '!'be Gazette Press,334 ::ltale St., Sclleuectady, N. Y., TelEphone 4·!UU . ered by Professor Mortimer F. Sayre, for· era! shocks. 2. Introduce you1· girl to Mrs. Mr. Wyatt-Don't wear anything sponsibHity however . I wouldn't wear. In case you are interested, and Pres. Roosevelt-I'd better speak we think you should be, \TI1e Thin to Eleanor before I commit my- M:m\ has come back to town and self. is running at the Center Theatre, Enlered at the .Schenectady Pu::;t Office a~:~ :Second Class Mall lv.lalle_L_' ___ _ the men who were honored are the citizens Fox as yaur first wife. This will l h cause tallt, and everybody can use v; 10, mot·e t an any else, should hear of the publicity. :Sub:ocriplion price Five eents a copy; $3.00 a year; deli ver~eu auy wlJet·c in lhe UniteLI_States. · weaknesses of democracy. In the past it has 3. Don't brea:k a bottle over any faculty member's head. 'Why waste Mae West-I guess everybody you know, the Tom Thumb Edition knows my sentiments. on Center St!·eet. When Dashiell So out of our experience we have Hammett's novel by the same name given what help we could. We came out everyone exclaimed over won't be at Prom ourself. So you the witty narrative, the ultra-smart can't check up and see whether we dialogue, and the very dirty spots follow our own rules or not. We . on page 57 and 131. Then the shall shut om•selves up with a quart, movies bought the story and every- of Scotch and decide the fate of one shook their heads and said it l!:tlitol'ial Roorns, Sillim~n Hal!, Union College Campus. 'l'elephoae, f:3cllenectady, 4-013~. Seni()r Boat·d Not· man R. Stewart .. _ ........ Editor-in-Cttief lJh1 'P:::;l l.ML..ig~4·ti5:.!7 S. Ralph Cohen .............. M:.anaging Etlltor lti :-L ;:;, ti. c.-<-11 n Fenton A. Gage ..... -· ........... News 'Editoi· lJdLu L:p:;Ilu 11 lluu•\-4·1~~2 . Milton D. Bedell ................. Sports Editor lJella LIJ:o;iluu Huusce-~-7~2:! Daniel B. Wohl. .... _ .... Cii·culation Manager Kappa =-:u lluu:;c-4- 13al Robert 0. Nelson ........... Bttsiness Manager ____ _:ch:::·· a\\p-\';pa Alpha Luug~.,'--\'\\'4:.:·~:.:1: ___ _ J uni()r -Board ASSOCIATB EDITORS Etlwatd Bai\ry Robert FelgUl:lon been the unfortunate tendency for the great- bottles? 4. Tell every member of the • est minds to be directed to the arts and Prom Committee that the band is the WOI'St you ever hea:~:·d. There's other subjects unrelated to government. The nothing like makiug all the friends majority of politicians have been of lesser yo~ c~~~·t pass out in front of Dr. caliber, who have caus,ed the word \politi- Fox. He might not catch you. 6. Tell everybody that your date cian\ to be connoted as it is today. The need is in the swimming pool. This will cause a stampede in that direction. of far-sighted, more idealistic men in gov- and you'll have more room to dance. ernment is evident everywhere. Human s,elf- 7. Don't exhale until one thirty. ishness must be overcome if order is to be There's no point in exposing your full strength too early In the battle. gained. It is only the greatest minds which 8. Don't try out your German h t It h t Th t on a strange girl. She may think can ope o a er uman na ure. e grea - you're trying to say something you nations. A pleasant week-ehd. just couldn't be done. But for once 0 the Great Public was wrong. Notes on Our With skilful cutting and editing, and with the .expert direction of Contemporaries William Van Duke the picture was a sensatiou, a 'smash'. It was wisely Phil Baker Warns College Students cast with Myrna Loy and William Julius Bundgus Hyman Enzer Willard Dean Hent·y Hartmann ·est evidence that any change for the better shouldn't. L. b ht b · h 9. Don't tell Dean Ellery a dirty \College boys go social too soon,\ Powell as leads. One was not con- he said. \Girls and parties ought claus that the dirt had been cut. to take a back seat while a boy gets The picture was an example of ready to do something important. what Hollywood could do with a You can't milt gals with a career; god story, and no League of Dec- one of them is bound to suffer.\ ency. There hasn't been a movie in .. • * Bills the last year which could touch it. WHY? Hobert Doig Melvin MU!'olf Carl 'Trllhman can ue roug a out lS t · e progress which joke. It might be <me he'd heard. Out In the University of Wash- Ington, they are looking into the possibility of the administration witholding academic credits from those students who owe bills to their fraternities. The Mountebanks are doing \Noah\ this wek-end and having sat in on a couple of rehearsals we promise you that you'll be amused and that your date will think you \wonderful\ for taking her. It is not a biblica:l drama, in fact we imagine \Noah\ would be disowned by any bible. It is a naive sort of satire, an amusing, yet strangely moving, account of the Ark episode. It will be, in our opinion, the best production of the year and one that you'll thoroughly enjoy. Sophon\lol:e Board-- ---- •. man has already made in civilization. He 10. If you offer to lead the band, insist upon being paid for it first. Assista.:nt Editors has learned, to a considerable degree to curb Then they won't let you do it. M. Depp, F. Hequernbourg, E. Houghtaling, P. his own actions in order to fit into the g·en- 11. Tell all the Smith girls how Hamphrey, F. Saidel, D. Taft, R. Walter, R. wonderful you think M:t. Holyoke Morgan, D. Miller, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, €l'al pattern of behavior which has been die- is, and all the Vassar girls how * • * J. Sherman, J. Smith t ted b th Ph. B t d s· x· f th much you like Bryn Mawr. This '------------------------~· a Y e I e es an 1gma lS 0 e may start a free-for-all whicli will Paradox \It is encouraging that so many people are dying of cancer.\ Yale's Dr. Howard W. Gaggard goes on to prove that present cancer mortality rates prove that the young no longer succumb to the dread ma- lady, that the end of the fight against it is in sight. past. liven up the affair considerably. Don't tell Sltidmore girls anything. IS,Sue Edito1· ...........•. S. Ralph Cohen Assisia.nts Robert Doig Robe1·t Ferg·uson Friday, May 1, 1936 TO THE WEEK-ENDERS You who are capable, devote some of your time and effort to the practical problems which confront you. Look ahead, but not too far ahead. The research, the literature, which may well be the products of your brains will be of little use, if the social order is too chaotic to receive them. Fill the wide gap which exists between the hopes of the futm·e and the realities of the present. THE NEW STUDENT COUNCIL Every no\V and the11 there comes a high point in the ups and downs of normal col- lege life. The ordinary grind of hollr eJCams, term pape1·s, and lectures IVhich constitute the pm·suit of knmvledge b interrupted in 01·der that the fe1tigue<l students m.ay r·elax.. This week-end is d~dieated by unanimous agreement to that pul'suit. Yeste1·day seventeen students were hon- To you flower of yo 1 mo· American womell- ored uy the student body in being- chosen ' \ t·l t as mernbers of the new Student Council. To hood, who are contributing; so grefl v <>- • them we extend our sincere congratulations ward this much-ne(;ded relaxation, Union and best wishes for success in the perform- College extends its rrt!artiest welc<>me, and ance of their work during the coming· year. hopes that you, too, will return to Y()Ut~ vae- The Student Council has now been in ex- ious pursuits with the fil·m conviction that istence fot· four years. Originally jt was formed to take over the duties of the Ter- you have not lived i11 vain. You will find, we tmst, that the gentle- men who matriculate 11ere are gentlemen at 3:UU or 4:00 a. m. as well as at all other time::~. When you at last l'€st your heads, heavy with sleep yet t() be had, on the soft downy pillO\v, forgive u~ our trespasses, f()r remember that since alnHlst eight long months ago, we hav-e existed in a semi- Larbaric state of seclusion (with now and then an exception). Unschooled as we are in the finer adjustlnents to society, some of our behavior may not meet with the ap- proval of you who co1ne to us from the upper regions. In our mde Vl'ay, howevel\ we shall do our utmost to pt'ovide for your small wants. Our hospitality spl'ings like the flow- ers which you won't see in Jackson's Gar- dens, stJ·aight fl'Om the brown earth. (Tile gardens are still wmth. yoLLr attention). Dine with us. Win·e witll us. Wan with us. Talk with us. Ride witll us. Abide with us. Den't walk out '-Vi th fraternity brothers. Recall not too avidly ad vices of mothers. Ac- cept with g-ood graces our l'Ude welcome to y'awl. And you, m:y dear Betty, are most welcome of all. 1·ace Council and assume complete control of student government. Today the incoming council members must face a storm of stu- dent criticism that the Student Council has failed in the execution of its duties. We be- lieve that the councils of the past have done admirably under the circumstances in which they were placed. Admittedly, no government can be perfect. In a student government, many more diffi- culties in the form of limited powers and scop.e are encountered than in any other form of government. It is not surprising, then, that the Student Council has been termed an inactive, honorary body by those who do not 1·ealize how well previous coun- cil have been selected on the basis of their government which have come before them. The seventeen members of the new coun- cil have been selectted on the basis of their widespread activity on the campus and their apparent ability to hold the reins of student government. We hope that they will enter into their new job with a serious consider-· ation of what they can do if they are willing to do it. Our congratulations are extended to them. The future wi11 prove to us the wisdom of our choice, and we sincerely wish them the best of luck. 12. If you tell a Schenec:tady girl you were sure she lived in New York, there is no limit to what she may do for you. 13. Bring a white l'at for Dr. The 1936 -T. S. UNION COLLEGE Announces MOHAWK DRAMA FESTIVAL UNION COLLEGE OUTDOOR THEATRE SCHENECTADY. NEW YORK Will present for its 1936 season. MARGARET ANGLIN and other guest stars alternating with MR. and MRS. COBURN, supported by a distinguished Professional Company in six great plays, July 21 to .August 29: MACBETH, by William Shakespeare July 21 to July 25 THE YELLOW JACKET, by G. C. Hazelton and Benrimo, August II to IS THE RIVALS, by Richard B. Sheridan July 28 to August I *MORONOI, by Edgar Lee Masters August 18 to August 22. A COMEDY (to be announced June I) August 4 to August 8 THE IMAGINARY INVALID, by Moliere August 25 to August 29 INSTITUTE OF THE THEATRE Eight Weeks 1 July b to August 29 Offers to students seriously interested in the Theatre: PTlOF!i!RSI0:\1' AL 'I'HA I ~I :-1 G : i:ltudettts will reltearRe and p~r­ form with the Fes tl>'al [•ompany, !>laying subm·dtnate parts and un· ole1st udying prlndpal d.aractc·r\. u II!! will also rec·eJ,:e pra!'tieal In· ,trur>tlon In a II stage c•rafts. Af'ADI·~:.NC \\'UR'E: An intensivP ~ourse in the arts of the theatre- Sr·ene and Costume Design; Voi~e and Dil'tiou; Stage Lighting; .\o1alte-up; 'I'lteaHe :llanagement and Publicity ; 'Phy,.ieal Condition- ing and Dnnrlng; Radio TePh· nique (with fu II cooperation of NBC's station WGY); Direetor's Symposium '(lnfol'lmLl discussion with the uh·ector of the current Festival play) a.nd a four-hour-a- week POUr!'e in History and ThP· ory of the 1'heatre conducted for one week eaC\h !Jy a uthoritieg ou the theatre. F'Al'l'LTY A:-.:D T,ECTI'REHH John Burlte I~,retleriek Calvin ~heldun Cheney Barrett II. Clark Mr. l 'harles Coburn :\Irs. l 'Ita rles Coburn Alexander Dean Walter Prichard I<'aton Beauvais Fox Clayton Hamilton Irene Marmeln Arthur Hob!'on Quinn Emmet Robinson S. Marion •rucl<er Percival Vivian Professional Sl'ene Designer l'rofesgional Stage Dlrel'tor Edward J,, Carroll, Chairmm• :\Titlon l\L l~nzer, Registrat• l'lWFJ;:SSION AT, OPPORT!':-.:- ITY: All students who register their Intention to undertake thea,- tJ·kal worlt as a profession and who complete their first summer'\ l'Ourse with distinction, will be given a half Tuition-Seholarshlp for their second summer's session. Those who pass their second sum- mer's course also with distinction will be given a position as Junior Member of the Festival's Profes- sional Company for eight weelt\' during their third summer, Rt u Halary of $25 per week I·~XPENSES: Tuition On dudes all expenses). $120. Room and Bo:nd for Eight Weeks, $120. J;:NROLLMENT limited to 50 nwn at1d women~ For Information, write to Regis- trar, Institute of the Theatre, Union College, S<\henertarly New York. 11==== Institute of the Theatre, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. ====..1 All Dang~ Lies' AsPr~ Sayre, i11 Says Me Of We Mus Etbics, 0 Wednes zation of be· subjet which ca great pav Spain, de F. Sayre gineering this mor1 pel. \The in the '( for evil, economic fied, it w modify tl is to be cause w sciously it.\ J)et« In reg cies tow democra that \c< this cou: come tr< which~ citizens! of gove pre~ent ment we The thr rative were, \ ingness ing wi1 attai1s; velope ; of reli.!1 and to third, t which 1 ; Havii Schene• six yea years I nigher for thE his op: republi well < which havior vidualf unsclol affecti: more cure.\ \Pre offer IJ any so tent tl fer is votes non-co ativel;o~ five P' tain s in rna tha.t tl of thE ply a the \1 We• lieve What after or bo tionsl subje men l inforl first stu de der .Arne I Socia prOVE a sul .Alt eral male fav01 wide sexe1 girl arch agre• vidu: duct ther1 lng 1 fair Sara ofm argu an 1 the I and task Su quef

the we as are rom on, can the and and uble reat ture that was r.e- and and hi ell me over the it once ting, of was is ely con- cut. of a Dec- ie in it. we you It is we rt of sode. best that s. Alb·ert H,. Danger to Ameriea Lies Within Nation As Pressure Groups · Sayre, .in Pl'i~ Day Addre:::Js,l' Says ·Such Bodies Are Menace to Country Offet·s Remedies We Must Develop Standard of· Ethics, Form New Groups, Or Have Dictatol' Wednesday, April ~9.- -The civili- zation of the United States will not be. subjected to the same forces which caused the decay of such great powers as Greece, Rome. and Spain, declared Professor Mort1mer F. Sayre of the department of en- gineering in his Prize Day .address this morning in the Memor~al Cha- pel. \The real possibilities of change in the United States, for good or for evil are from within. If our economic methods are to be modi· fied it wiH be because we ourselves modify them. If our political system is to be overturned, it will be be- cause we ourselves, whether con- sciously or unconsciously, overturn it.\ peterio1·ation from Inside In regard to present day tenden- cies toward the posstble collapse of democracy, Proressor Sayr~ sa~d that \collapse or detenorauon 111 t.his country, if it comes, is likely. to come from disintegrative tendencies which would affect the whole mass citizenship of the nation, regardless of government, but to WhiCh oUI.\ present republican form of govel·n- Stevenson Weekend Calendar 2:30 p. m.-T.ennls: Uniorr vs. WHI!ams aL Williamstown. 8:30 p. m.-Mountebanks Perfor- mance \Noah\ by Andre Obey, Mountebanits Theatre, Hanna Hall. lO:UO p. m.-3:0@ a. m.-Junior Promenade, Alumni Gymna- sium. Tomorrow 2:00 p. m.-Track: Union vs. Ro- chester, Alexander Field. 4:00 p. m.-Lacrosse: Union vs. Syracuse, Alexander Field. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1936 Thre€ Awarded Bailey Cup for Service @> Recipients ·of 1'936 College Prizes College Honors 24 Students At Fifth Annual Prize Day Robe1•t :S. Langer Receives Four Prizes; Trumbull, North, Reid, FioTe, Also Prominent On Long List of Awards We<ln.e&dfly, April 29.- Twenty-one studeats became 1·e~ cipients ,of the twenty-two a\-vards of the Fifth annual Pri:ze Chapel ,ceremony held this morning in the .Memol'ial Chapel. 'l)r. Dixon Ryan Pox pl'esented the prizes to the thirteea seniol's, four jtlnioJ·s, two sophomores and two fresh men. 8:30 p. m.-Mountebanks Perfor- mance \Noah\ by Andre Obey, Mountebanks Theatre, Haonna Hall. ROBERT S. LANGER ALBERT H. STEVENSON -----<b The awatds and those whom they honor are as· follows: 9:00 p. m.-1 :00 a. m.-Fraternity . Dances: Alpha Delta Phi, Beta , Theta Pi, Chi Psi, Delta Phi, , ' Delta Upsilon, Kappa Alpha, ' Kappa Nu, Kappa Sigma, Phi : Delta Theta, Phi Gamma Del- · ta, Phi Sigma Delta, Phi Sig- ma Kappa, Psi Upsilon, Sigma Chi, Theta Nu Upsilon. Monday 7:15 p. m.-Schenectady County Alumni Association Dinner, Hale House. 7:30 p. m.-Band Rehearsal, Alumni Gymnasium. 8:30 p. m.-Mountebanks Perfor- mance \Noah\ by Andre Obey, Mountebanks Theatre, Hanna Hall. ·Nine Fraternities In 1936 Song£ est Annual Spring Night Set For May 11 in Jackson's Garden ROBERT C. NORTH VAN VECHTEN TRUMBUbL MICHAEL E. FIORE CHARLES L. REID, JR. .Universities Grant Five :Seholarships McGuir~. Reid, Fredrick, Hall, Plum11ter Receive Awards In Graduate Work 'l'.he Bailey Prize, established by DI'. Franlt Hailey, of the class of l!$85, tt·easut er of Union College, given annually by the faculty to that member of the senior class who ha:o rendered the greatest ser- vice to the college in any field, awarded to Albert H. Stevens<>n, of B1·ooklyn. The AJlen Essay Prizes, founded by the Hon. William F. Allen of uswego, for the best three essays Friday, May 1-Five members of on any subject, submitted by the the cla::;~ of 1936 have received 1nembers or the senior class, a- graduate scholarships or instrctor- warded to Van Vechten T1'umbull, ships at other institutions, it was of Schenectady; Robert S. Langer announced today. They include: of Troy; John Ross, or Albany. John A. !.icGuire, John Hail, Char- The Allison Prizes, founded by les Reid, :Kenneth Fredel.\ick and M.r. George F. Allison, of the class W. Bradley Plummer. of l8!l4, are awarded to the three John :Mc-Guire has been awarded students who have contributed a scholarship and assistant instruc- most to the par·ticipation of 1Jn- torship in economics at Clark Uni- ton College in intercollegiate de- versity for 1936-37. A resident of oating, awarded to L:arl ~. Olson, Schenectady, he has been engaged l:Stl, ot Centel' Monches; Richax d <..:. in a special research project in in- 8nyder, 37, of Schenectady; Ueorge dustl'ial u:nionism with special ref- I.J. 1,.,-'Umrnings, '37, of Gloversville. er·ence to the General Electric Com- !'he Archtbald High Scholarship pany, clul'ing this year under the .t'llze, founded by the Rev. And1·ew direction of Professor Earl E. Cum- W.Archibald, or the class of 18-n, mins. 'I' he historical development of tor that member of the graduating the present controversy in the A. F. class, taking Latin as one of hi:; of L. over the craft ver·sus indus- major languages, who has attain- trial fo:rin of organization has been ed the highest stancting, awarded the ::;ub~ect of his study. McGuire to Robert S. Langer, ot Troy. ment would be especially sensitive.\ •ruesday, April 28.-Nine frater- 'l'he three most important disinteg- nities have registered for entrance rative tendancies he mentioned mto the 8pring Night Songfest, to were, \first an increasing unwill- be held May 11 in Jackson's Gal.\- ingness to play the game in deal- den, it was announced today by ing with others in govel.\nmental Joseph Milano '36. The fraternl- attails· a fa1lure personally to de- ties who handed In their entries by. velope 'a standard of philosophy .or the deadline on Friday, April 24 of 1 eligion, call it what you Will, m ordel.\ to be admitted to the con- and to endeavor to live by it; and test, are in the prder of their ap- third to a maudlin sentimentality pearance in the meet: Beta Theta which refuses to face facts.\ r'i, Phi Delta Theta, Delta Phi, Del- Feminine Guests Throng on Campus As Prom Climaxes Social Seaff.on pt e~ent~d the preliminary findings The Daggett .l:'rize, founded by of his in....,estigation at the Colum- Miss E. Josephine Daggett, given bia roundtable in economics in New by the president of the college to York Cit:y last Friday. McGuire· a senior fo1· excellence in conduct was one of the organizers of the and character, awarded to Van Social Studies Club and bas maln- Vechten Trumbull, of Schenectady; tained a :tlrst-grade average during: and Robert C. North, of Walton. his jun:ior- and senior years. The l<'ull Senior Prize in (.;'llem- istry, founded by the late Dr. Ro- bert M. Fuller of Schenectady, Jlall to Syracuse John Hall, a resident of North given to that member of ihe sen- Average Man in O:ffiee ta Upsilon, Theta Delta Chi, Sigma Chi, Alpha Delta 1-'hi, Psi Ups11on, Having had a close contact with and Kappa AJpha. Schenectady municipal affairs for Accordmg to the rules of the con- six years, lJr. Sayre said \these si:x test, 75 per cent of the members of yeai.\S led me to have a somewhat each house will have to participate. nigher rather than lower regard. In the first part of the program, for the average man in office. ln each fraternity will sing a song of his opmion the chief menaces to its own choice; and the judges will republican government are the then eliminate all but three of the well organized pressure groups groups from the contest. which \mvolve not simply misbe- The three surviving groups will havior in a l:lmall number of indi· sing a Union College song which viduals, but rather a conscious or the judges will have chosen from a unsclous lowering of the standards group of four including the \Tar- affecting millions of people, and su race Song,\ \The Dutchmen's Song,\ more im,portant and harder t.o \Come Now to the Campus,\ and cure.\ \Down the Mohawk Trail.\ The Two hllndred and fifty guests from colleges and cities cast of the Mississippi will be present tonight at the 140th annual Junior Prom held at Union CoJ.lege in the Alu- mni Gymnasium which has been transformed for the occassion into a colorful ballroom. Isham Janes and his Columbia Broadcasting System ol.\chestra will furnish the music. Prior to the dance in the gymas- Chi Psi-Miss Gretchen Ker::nmei' Troy, •has 1 eceived a graduate 10r class in the curriculum lead- of Connecticut College, Miss Mar- scholarship in political science at ing to the degree of B. S. in Ghem- jory Mable of Albany State, Miss Syracuse University. He is pres!· istry whose standing has been of Ruth Jackson of Worcester, Mass., dent of 'the Model League of Na- high grade, and who has shown Miss Betty Moran of Schenec:tady, tion~ Cou.ncil in Union and has been the most ability in original ex:pii·- Miss Florence Breneinstuhl ·<>f .AI- one of the most active membet·s of amentai work awarded to Kenneth bany Business College, Miss Harriet that gro·up during the past two J. l:<'l'edericlt, of Scotia. Schwerty of Passaic, N . .J., M:iss years. The Buller Sophomore Pri2e in Shirley Hanson of Nutley, I:-1. J., Chemistt-y, founded by the late Miss Edith Langmuir of Smith, A gt-ad uate scholarship in French Dr. Robert M. Fuller of Schenec- Miss Margaret Gill of Cornell, M:iss has been. given to Charles Reid of tady, given to that member of the d WI' Schenect~dy by the Univer-sity of - Virginia Mure of Schenecta y, 1ss Chicago. Reid, who is the only Ian· sophomore class in the curriculum Elizabeth Parsons of Conne-cticut guage nujor in the present senior leading to the degree of B. 8. in College, Miss Jane Stephens~n of cla::;s, w:as last year awarded the Chemistry whose work of the first Harcum Junior College, Miss Janice Leonald Chester Jones Memorial two years has given the greatest Orton of Middlebury. Chaperons: Prize for: having the best record of promise of success, awarded to Mr. and Mrs. W. H. C. Lehn~a.n and the yem· in French. A pianist of re- Matthew W. W.ilson, of Schenec- \Pressure groups generally do nut latter song, not generally known, offer monetary bribes o1·rewards of and written by President Emeritus any sort to legislators. To that e:x- Charles A. Richmond, has been in· tent they are honest. All they of- eluded in the group in order to re- fer is punishment; a diversion of introduce it to popularity. ium many of the guests will attend the fust night performance of Andre Obey's \Noah\ which is be- mg presented this week-end by the Mountebanks theatre. The Junior Prom Committee and their guests are Franklyn F. Con- verse chairman, with Edith M. Mant~r of Buffalo State Teachers College; John F. Sloatman with Edith Kruse of Russell Sage Col- lege, Lawrence D. Clinton with Dorothy J. Glennon of Mount ~t. Vincent, Ernest C. Brown With Thelma Turek of Mayfield, John J. Marsella with Get trude Bonley of Amsterdam, Frank D. Phillips, jr., with Jane Rogers of Schenectady, Franlt B. Gatchell, jr. with Char- lotte G. Ziegler of Goucher College, and Robert D. Everett with Pene- lope Ferr-y of Skidmore College . Mr. and Mrs. G. L. Il.\vine. pute, he has been accompanist for tady. Delta Chi-Miss Peg Henllngway the Glee Club and has appeared in 'l'he Horowitz Prize, founded by votes to cause the defeat of the The program, which will be run non-compliant individual m·, altern- through in its entirety on the eve- atively, the reward of the additional ning of May 11, will be opened five per cent of votes needed to ob- promptly at 7:15 by the singing by tain success at the polls. There is the whole gathering in the garden in many cases not even a pretense of \By the Light of the Moon.\ The that their demands are for the best Song Festival will be held on the of the country at large, but sim- evening of May 15, in the event of ply a bald threat, in every sen::;e uf rain on the scheduled night, it was the word inherently dishonest.\ announced. . Georgeous G-als Gasp Genetic Gems As Anarchistic Attitudes Appear Wednesday, April 29~-Do· yo_u be- instinct. Later problems that de- lieve in companionate marnage? veloped were: Must women have ce- What should be a woman's course reers? Can the father as well as the after marriage-the home, a career, mother have a part in the education or both? Are pre-marital sex rela- of the child? Does a man work be- tionships right? These and other cause of a liking for his job or for subjects interesting to both _YOU~g reasons of necessity? Does eco- men and women found ft•.ee, stnceie, nomic necessity forced a large num- informal discussion tonight at the ber of unhappily married couples first forum of Union and Skidmore to live together? Would companion~ students held in Silliman Hall un- ate marriage iron out the difficul- der the auspices of the local ties of the divorce questions? American Student Union. \Wo~en'~ Van Vechten Trumbull '36, said Social Station After Marna~e in answer to the latter question, proved to be sufficiently interestmg \You don't have to look at marriage a subject for a large \bull-session.\ as a convenient form of prostitu- Although it was found that sev- tion.\ It was Arthur Hepner '38, er-a! of the students fron:; the. f~- however, who brought up the sub- male institution were defm.itely m ject of pre-marital sex l.\e!ationships favor of companionate xnarnage, no on which persons in the discussion wide conflict of opinion betw~en the. managed to talk without undue evi- sexes was apparent. One Sludmore dence of obscenity. girl was considered almost an an- The students of Skidmore College archist when she stated \W~ a~l participating in the forum were agree that it depends on t~e tndl- Mary Fuller, Debby Beatty, Nancy vidual woman hoW she wlll con- Richardson, Margaret Lyons, and duct herself after college; We think Eleanor Van Anderburg. Other in- there should be no laws restrict- formal discussions between Union !ng marriage and divorce.\ Another and Skidmore are being planned fair representative of the colleg~ at and will be held during the year, Saratoga disturbed the tranqmllty Trumbull stated. of many and start~d on.~ of tt~e fir~t A public meeting in Silliman Hall arguments by saymg, :Marnage lS on Monday night, May 4 at 7:30, an artificial set-up. Parents malte was announced, at which Serril the biggest mess .of educati~n of all, Gerbei·, field secretary of the A.. S. and the state should be gtven the task of bringing the children up.\ u. will speak. All students are m- Such a discussion brought up the vited to the fO!'Um which will be question of whether there is a filial followed by an Informal discussion. of Watervliet, Miss Joyce Sevvell of recitals here and elsewhere with the trustees of the college in ap- Elmira, Miss Lois Breckenridge of that organization. preciation of the generosity of Mr. Bryn M.awr, Miss Beatrice Ea.rris Louis J. Hox·owitz of the Horowitz of Smith, Miss Jessiea Fonseca of Kenneth Frederick, who is the ft'oundation in sustaining a course valedictorian of the class of 1936, · c · u · Vassar, Miss Renate Smith of' Troy, in Buildmg onstruct10n at man Miss Phoebe Rea of C. C, N. Y., has l>ee::n appointed to the position College, given to the senior who of a~sistant instructor in phyiscs at d th b t Miss Peg Leo of Russell Sage, Miss during the year has rna e e es Wanda Reed of Skidmore, M:r. and the University of California. Re b progt·ess in th:is course, awarded Mrs. Thomas B. McCoullot.Igh o.f re:o;ident of Scotia and in his sopho- to Michael E. Fiore, of Schenec- Green Island, Miss Mary !laorgan mme ~eal.\ was awarded the Fuller tady. of Mount Holpoke, Miss Mlildred prize in chemistry. Frederick Is The Ingham Prize, founded by also a membel.\ of the Chemistry C · Stanhope of Chicago University, the Han. Albert . Ingham, g1ven Miss Edith Lowen~tein of ..Albany Club. ·W'. Bradley Plummer has ac- to that senior who has pt'esented cepte<l a year's teaching assistant- f State, Mr. and Mrs. James B~ Wells the best essay on one o two as- ship in engineering at Iowa State · d d D of Albany, Miss Helen Mah<Ony of stgned ·sUbJects, awar e to on- Skidmore, Miss Mabel lv.!aLhes of College, Ames, Ia., before beginning aid Trumbull, of Johnstown. The guests of the various frater- nities which had boothe at tonight:s Prom and who will hold dances th1s week-end follow: work. br a higher degree. a1 Albany State. Chaperonee: IY.lr. and The Leonard C. Jones Mem<>ri Mrs. Charles Stinard of Washing- ---o--- Prize, offered annually by the Alpha Delta Phi - Miss Jayne Buckley of New York; Miss Elaine Dunshedt of Vassar, Miss Mari?n Bower of Sarah Lawrence, Miss Margaret Clowe of Schenectad_y., Miss Lyle Marshall of Summ1t, N. J., Miss Leola Wooten of Sum~ mit, N.J .. Martha Corbin of Brant- wood Hall, Miss Ruth Chapman of New York, Miss Betty Clements of New York, Miss Carolyn Sturn of Smith. Chaperones: Dr. and Mrs. Howard Smyth of Schenectady, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas V. Smith of Gloversville, and Mr. and 1'Irs. C. w. Snyder of Schenectady. . Beta Theta Pi-Miss Jane Mulll~ gan of Syracuse University, Miss Thelma Turk of Duke,. Miss. Car?l Stone of Skidmore, M1ss V1ct?na AJlen of Smith, Miss Genev1eve Daley of Mount Holyoke, Miss Pat- ty Smith of Pembroke, Miss Louise Funk of Skidmore, Miss Patricia Murphy of Skidmore, ~ss Violet Kovacs of Wellesly: Mtss Ro~e­ mary Jackson of L1mbroolt, MISS Ruth Nelson of Smith, Betsy Sulli~ van of Drexel, Miss Jane Vrooman of Smith Miss Barbara Sayer of Mount H~lyoke, Miss Patricia Sulli- van of Trinity, Miss Betty Shew of Gloversville, Miss Jane Gillespie of Finch School, Miss Jean Heller _of Wells, Miss Rut~ Erret of Miss Allen's School, Mtss Dorothy Day of St. Lawrence, Miss Betty Hul· burd of Finch School. Chaperons: Dr. and Mrs. Frederick C. Schmidt, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Wiley and Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Bailey, ton, D. C. F • t' T. d R• • Scheneetady Branch of th.e Alli- Delta Phi-Charlotte Mour-s, Bus- 1 ~SClS lC . ren lSlllg ance Francaise, in meory of the sell Sage; Oline Nelson, St. Agnes late Leonard Chester Jones, pro- School; Betty Chambers, U. of Hicks, Former R. P. I. Professor, fessor of history in Union College, Rochester; Elizabeth Vv'!'hitney, Says Democracy Fast Disappeai'· given to the junior or senior who Rochester; Jane Dow!Lng~ Holy ing; BefOI'e Oligarchy has made the best record of the Name Academy; Ruth Jc:>hnson, year• in the study of French, a- Farmingham Normal; Betty Meury, warded to Charles L. Reid, Jr., '36, N. Y. State Teachers; Jane :Rogers, 'l'u.esda.y, April 28 - Declaring of Schenectady. Nott Terrace High; Elizabe-th Hef- that our democratic righ:ts in The Robert G. O'Neale Prize, lin, Skidmore; Vera Clagg;, Skid- Anlerlca are being seriously theat- founded by the late Mrs. A..Iu:'la M. more; Virginia Van ReD<sselaer, ened ·l>Y the marked tenden<:y to- O'Neale of Charleston, N. C., for Syracuse u.; Betty Clark, Williams- wards fascism and oligarchy, Gran- the . student taking Latin as one town; Zella Winter N. y. State ville Hic,ks, noted liberal author, of his major languages, who has Teachers; Lois Hickey, :Plattsburg presEnted the principal address to- the highest standing during his Normal. Chaperones: Mr. a:nd Mrs. night at the third open meeting of four years at college, awa.1·ded to Edwal.\d Howlett of Schene<lta.dy. the· Gavel Club. An audience of Robert S. Langer-, of Troy_ Delta Upsilon _ Marg-aret Schu- about 75 people attended the lecture The Louis Ouppenheim Class of man of Cornell; Mabel Mathes of in the Old Chapel. 1875 Scholarship Prize, at present Schenectady, Jane Todd of Skid- \Our- whole system of democracy maintained by Mr. Louis Oppen- more, Frances Muther of Skidmore, as conceived by Jefferson.\ fiicks heim, a member of the class, and Jane Sidford of Elsemore, Kathleen said, \'has disappeared. The 18th given to that candidate for the Johnson of Skidmore, Virgj.nia Lee and 19th century democrats envis- A. B. degree in the freshman class, Barkhuff of Cornell, Mat·y A. Shan- aged a country of small producers who has taken Latin or Greek as gle of Skidmore, Elizabeth Robb of when they advanced theil.\ ideas.\ one of his major languages, and Vassar, Jane Cooper of Skidmore, Conditions since then have who has attained the highest Virginia Drake of Ehnira, Mary cha:nged to such an extent that our standing awarded to Ralph D. North of Schenectady, Rut:.h Proc- rights to criticize, to organize and Morgan, Jr., of Buffalo. tor of Ogdensburg, Joan lMayo of to glvE free expression t<> our con- The Pullman Classical Prize, Scotia, Evelyn Connolly of Sche- vict.lons ·have been seriously cur• founded by the late Mr. Daniel F. nectady, Helen Smith of Carman, tailEd. Pullman, of Knox, N. Y., given to Gene Rankin of Skidr::nore, Jane \Eo'W many people,\ que.stioned that member of the graduating Hooper of Vassar, Penelope Ferry Hicks. \are in an effective position class who has attained the highest of Skidmore, Betty Leo:nard of in tilLs country to say what they standing in the Division of Lang- Schenectady, Margaret Gorrell of thinlt about the existing order? uage and Literature, preference be- Elmira, Isabelle Eaton O·f S lddmore. ·only a very, very minute minority\. ing given to members of the Meth- Chaperones: Dr. and :Mr-s. J. C. 'I\he majority of people have odist Episcopal Church; awarded Lutz and Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Strle- never had the opportunity to give t<> Robert C. North, of Walton. bert, both of Schenectady. vent to a democr-atic act or The Pullman Engineering Prize Kappa Alpha-Marian E.l>'binson thOought, sald the former R. P. I. founded by the late M:l.\. Daniel F. of Rollins, Virginia Stentz:; O·f Con-: prc.fessor, and the tendency in this Pullman, of Knox,. N. Y., given to (Continuer on Fag~ 4) day is dismayingly towatds fascism. <Continuer on Page 4)

Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1936 Drama Festival to Present \Moroni\ ~~~~· ~:::::~!e~i~~~~\-~~he~~~~ ~·dy:an Deusen, both of Schenec- Ed L M Th ' s C. F. F. Garis, Mrs. Harry Clinton, Phi Sigma Delta-Mary F. Stern By . . I C)lar. ee . asters, . . IS ummer and Mr. and Mrs. I<mt von Forst- of Ellis Hospital; Ruth Frost of ~· myer. Albany State, Hilda Mann of New ~---------------- Phi Gamma Delta-Mildred Sch- York, Rosalyn Dworsky of Sche- Coburn Announces Production Of Famous Play on Mormon Religio1.1.s Leader The wodd pvernlere of \Moroni\, a: new play by the -eminent Ameri- can author, Edgar Lee Masters, will be presented by the Mohawk D'rama Festival this summer from Augu~t 18 to 22, it was announced today by Mr. Charles Coburn. The play Will be pe1formed at the out- door theatre on the Union campus with a speciully elected profes- sional com.pany hea.ded by Mr. and Mrs. Coburn. \Moroni\ deals with the dramatic and ~tining eve nl$ in the life of Joseph Smith, founder of the Mor- mon religion. Openi.ng with Smith's discovery of the golden tablets at Cumorah Hill, near Palmyra, N. Y., the play cone lud es with his brutal murder by a mob during his im- p! iounment at Ca1:thage, Illinois, and shows the beginning of the vast migration to the far west un- der the leadership uf Brigham Young. Moroni is the nan1e of the angelic messenge1· who I'eveals the presence of the golden tablets to Joseph Smith. [t is the figure of this angel which a dot ns the spire of the g.reat Temple at Salt Lake City. Mr. Masters Is said to have s~t forth in prose the highlight» of the historic story with unusual dramatic effec- tiveness and also woven into its action a powerful love story. . neider of Albany State, Elizabeth nectady, Pearl Lee Pravda of Sche'- Read of Syracuse University, Eliza- nectady, Dorothy Levine of Sche- beth Smith of Albany State, Char- nectady, Dorothy Levine of Sche- lotte Sa:betzer of Fredonia Teach- nectady, Charlotte Appelbaum of er's College, Ma1y Deeker of Sche- Skidmore, Esther Jaffee of Troy, nectady, Marjorie Merch of Ithaca Frances Goldstein of Troy, Ellen College, Eileen Doyle of Schenec- Shirley of Schenectady, Sylvia tady, Frances Dearstine of Trap- Rosenblum of Schenectady, Shirley hagen, Betty Boyd of Albany, D~e Dunn of Troy, Florence Berner of Jessee of Albany State, Jean Hamil- Russell Sage, Hilda Mann of New ton of Schenectady, Marguerite York, Judy Scheinzeit of Schenec- Newberry of Rensselaer, Clarisea tady, I<'rances Rrooz of Albany. Green of Albany, Roberta E:el!y of Chaperones: Dr. and Mrs. I. Oneonta Normal, Dorothy G@ug- Shapilo, and Mr. and Mrs. Hyman ·her of Schenectady, Helen MUI'- Sacha.roff of Schenectady. Guests Throng on Campus To Celebrate Junior Prom \·Continued from Page 3> necticut College, Jean C. Clark of Shipley School, Dorothy Clay of Skidmore, Phyllis Verway of Skid- mot e. :Qton Lasher of Smith, Ann Tm·ner of Rosemary Hall, Eliza- beth Bament of Smith, Ruth Hill- ham of Schenectady. Chaperones: phy of Albany State, June Went- Phi Sigma Kappa worth of Schenectady, Katherine Phi Sigma Kappa-Alice C. Bur- . Kanige of Schenectady, Hannah ! owe of New RocheHe College, Chris Parker of Hudson, Mary Heath of Dershimer of Albany State, Mabel Schenectady, Dorothy Taylor of Swan tee of Albany, Charlotte Hen- Summit, N. J., Delores del Pa:nche sie of Hartwick CoHege, Catherine of Lima City, Peru, Jane Clark of Sawyer of Schenectady, Meretta Long Island, Helen B. Keene of Llewellyn of Hartwick College,· Vassar, Lillin Gathers of Chatham, Ruth Fa.irer of Saratoga, Eloise Betty Haigis of Piadcliffe, Ruth McKean of Hartwick College, Overbaugh of Schenectady. Chap-- Dorothy Lee of Albany State. uones: Dr. and Mrs. Cla1k and Mr. Chaper·ones: Mr. and Mrs. George Pnd Mrs. Rudolph Eisle1· both of Russell of Albany, and Mr. and Schenectady. Mrs. Samuel H. Bacon of Albany. Psi Upsilon Sigma Chi-Marion Heseliak of Psi Upsilon - Mary Fuller of Oneonta State College, Kay Holland Skidmore; Vivian Van Ostran of of Mount Holyoke, Rita M. Caugh- Syracuse University; Cyrena Sneath lin of Connecticut Junior College, of Knox School; Carolyn Gillespie Ruth M. Griswold of Larson's of Emma Willard; Margaret Clark Junior College, Gladys Tomlinson of Rochester; Arlene Schoenberner of Penn State, Gail Hull of Wheat- of Cornell University; Ellen Haas on College, Lillian Travis of Vassar, of Kenwood; Cynthia Ann Parker Margaret Reinhardt of Maryland of Elmira College; Charolette s;.eig- College, Van Gardner of Syracuse ler of Baltimore, Md.; Franc Holl- University, Ann Mulschen of Peek- ingshead of Auburn; Winifr<ld ><kill. Chaperones: Mr. and Mrs. Horstman of Erie, Pa.; Doris Red- Leland Goddard of Schenectady, man fo New York City; Mary Lou and Mr. and Mrs. Larry Bourst of Wright of Elmira College; Mrs. Schenectady. Sylvia Hatch of Willsbmo; Ann Theta Delta Ohi more, Elizabeth Clark of Schenec- tady, Mary Spiers of Bernard 'Col- lege, Marilynn Clark of Newark Art School, Jean Wyatt of Smith, Jane Withers of New York, Mae Masters of Syracuse Uni:versi.ty, Elinore Phillips of Mount Holyoke, Louis ifo~·ce Holden-Smiht of St. Timothy's, Marion G. Gerling of Middlebury College. Chaperones: Dr. ap.d Mrs. George Lutz and Dr. and Mrs. Howard Smyth, both of Schenectady. · Neutrals' Guests Neutz.al Group-Gertrude Morgan of Troy, Betty Tordoff .of Mechanis- ville, Mildred Monese of Schenec- tady, Alice Fitzgerald of Russell Sage, Florence Nelbach of Albany State, Doris Willoughby of Schenec- tady, Nancy Fairbanks of Schenec- tady, Ealanor Gelaise of Schenec- tady, M. Ergmann of Schenectady, B. Tracy of Stratford, Conn., Zita McMahon of Sarah Lawrence, Dorothea Hughes of College of St. Rose, Virginia Murray of Schenec- tady, Eleanore Beck of Schenectady. Sigma Phi-Augusta Achilles of Smith, Elizabeth Bertelson of Skidmore, Sanchia Doerly of Gar- den City, Sylvia Stoughton of New York City, Elizabeth Kigt of Vas- sar, Jean Palmer of South Orange, N. J., Jean Weller of Nutley. N\. J., Angelica Calvo of New York City, Peggy Clark of Utica, Mary Dow of Elmira, Charolotte Ochs of Kala- mazoo, Michigan. Chaperones : M·rs. Chester M. Sa.wtelle of Cambridge, Massachusetts and Mrs. Frederic Brenner of Sche11ectady. Theta Nu •Epsilon-Elva :Nealon of Menanda, :Marjorie Hubbard of Troy, Sara Sl1iree of Schenectady, Helen Carner of Troy, Helen G-lynn of Rochester, Charolotte Hlllner of Schenectady, Milina Trudell of Oneonta Normal, Margaret <Collie of Schenectady, Peggy Nerling of Schenectady, Bernice Wintle of Schenectady, Eleanor Harold of College ~of St. Rose, Anna Nicoll of Schenectady, Doris Diesem o:f Syra- ·cuse University. Chaper6ne:s: Mr. and Mrs. Harold Otto of Schenec- tady . Horsesh.oe Notice The second• rounds of the intra- mural hovseshoe .pairings lll;Ust be completed not later than Wednes- day evening. New Spring TIES SSe ea. In recognition of his biography uf Vachel Lindsay, the author of \Moroni\ was this yt=ar awarded the silver Mark '!'wain Medal given annually for preeminence in liter- atm e. Among other recipients of the awatd have been Rudyard Kipl- ing, Booth Tarkington, and Willa Cather. Perhaps best known as the author of \SpoonR.iver Anthology\ Mr. Masters has also written \The !<'ate of the Jury\. \Lichee Nuts\ \Lincoln the Man\ \Dramatic Duologue,;\ \The Tale of Chicago\ and \The Serpent in the Wilder- ne::;:::;\. Dr. and Mrs. Burges Johnson, Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer Sayre, Mr. and M1 s. George Eaton. Kappa Sigma-Nancy Wilson of Albany State, Jane Mudge of Sche- nectady, Doris Rinker of Bloom- field, N. J., Myrtle Weast of Colby Jumor College, Ruth Browne of Beaver College, Mary Muloney of Syracuse University, Dolly Miller of Schenectady, Helen Ross of Skidmore, Margaret Marhafer of Schenectady. Chaperones: Dr. and Mrs. F1ederick Burkett and Mr. and Mrs. Robert Woodworth, both of Schenectady. Boughton of Mercy Heart; Marjorie Theta Delta Chi-Alice Maecker Gifford of Goshen, Conn.; Louise of Buffalo, Margaret Remmele of , Phillips of Delmar; Ruth Crooks Endicott, R. H. Mary Canna of of Elmira College; Constance Lee Sacred Heart Academy, Patricia 1 of Columbia Graduate School; Judy Whitemore of Vassar, Helen Daw- Burley of Smith; Jane T. Cooper son of Westbrook Academy, of Elmira College; Christine Ades Frances Wheeler of Skidmore, of Albany State! Bradshaw of Loretta Roche of Schenectady, Jois Schenectady; Jean Anson of Buff- E. Smith of St. Johnsville, Shirley , ala. Chape10nes: Mr. and Mrs. Earl Sprung of Gloversville, Ehmer of W. Nickles and Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Amsterdam, Barbara North of Skid- 2 f.or $1.00 Silk crepes and failles, two and three color combinations on light and dark grounds. The othet plays Vlhich the Festi- val will p1·oduce are: Shakespeare's \MacBeth Hazelton and Benrimo's \Yellow Jacket,\ Moliete's \The Imaginary Invalid,\ Sheridan's \The Rival~\ and one other play as yet unnamed. --·-. ·0---- College Honors Students At Annual Prize Day Event Lambda Chi Alpha-Emily Bis- c110ff or Ball:>ton Spa; Ma1jorie Inglesten of Albany, Catherine Ramsey of Albany State, Gwendow- lyn Fox of Schenectady, Josephine Riley of Coh0€6, Jean Rochelean of Scotia, Dawn Mcintyre of Smith, Ali.ce Best of Mount Holyoke, Ruby Stewart of Schenectady. Chaper- ones: Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Bischoff of Mi!f()rd, Conn. Phi Delta Theta-Lee Patience of Skidmore; Dorothy Glennon of \Conlin ued from Page 3> New York, Esther Hill of Skid- that member of the graduating moremore, Margaret Sheehan of class in the Division of Engineer- Utica, Mary Donohoe of Utica, mg who has attained the highest Louise Webster of Skidmore, Eug- .;tanding, p1·efer.ence being given enia Fis-cher of Skidmore, Margua- to membe1s of the Methodist Epis- rite Moon of Russell Sage, Jane copal Church, awarded to Michael LaMour of Skidmore, Glarisse E. Fiore, of Schenectady. O'Hara of Skidmore, Elsie Helm- NOTICE! When the old ·gas tank gets low STOP at DOUW F. BEE~KMAN and Buy a Tankful of PUROL PEP GASOLINE Corner Union St. and Barrett The Rich Prize, founded by Mrs. bold of Troy, Peggy Gilbert of Edwin L. Rich In memory of her Chazy, Dorothy Campbell of Skid- moilie~~v= ~ fucl memb~~ ~~o~r~~~M~a~r~g~a~re~t~H~~~s~c~h~o~f~~S~k~id~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~~~~~ the senior class who has made the -·-- ·---- _ --·· best collection of books. during his _ _____ _ ----· ------- -·-------- ______ .. ---·· _ four years in college, awarded to Vedder M. Gilbert, of Amsterdam. , The Richmond Prize in Fine Arts, founded by Charles Alexander Rich- mond, President-Emeritus of Union , College, given for excellence in the 1 1 fine arts, awarde~d to William M. Kline, '36, of Gloversville; and Nor- . 1 man R. Stewart, '37, of Buffalo. The Richm()nd Prize In Musical Appreciation, founded by Charles Alexander Ricbm<Jnd, given for ex- cellence in the course in Apprecia- tion of Music, awarded to Charles L. Raid, Jr. '36, of Schenectady. The Carl Schurz Memorial Foun- dation Urize in German, given by the Carl Schurz :Memorial Founda- tion for excellence in German a- warded to Richard E. Passenger,'37, of Newburgh. The Freling H. Smith Prize in History, founded by Mr. Freling H. Smith, of the class of 1865, given to the senior who submits the best thesis in history, awrded to William Freedman, of AFi:Jany. The James Henry Turnbull Prize, Richard Kovarlc, of Gloversville. The Van Orden Prize awarded to Donald Thomsen, of New York City. The Wainer Prize, awarded to Robert S. Langel\ of T.roy. The Ideal Prom Souvenir Rhymes About College by H. A. L. 25 Entertaining Examples of Light Verse 25 cents On sale at College Bookstore Profits 1o Alumni Fund For Every Social Event at Union and at a II times throughout the year HOTEL VAN CURLER and its offers every facility for the Comfort and Happiness of UNION UNDERGRADUATES, ALUMNI and Their ·Guests. ._ •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 1 • • : : • • • • • • E The Well-Dressed Man 5 • • • • • • • • 5 Bu1ys His Clot.hes E • • • • • • • • • • : at : • • • • • • • • i NUSBAUM'S I • • a a a a • • • • • • • • • : . • • • • • • : In any season of the year and for : • • : every social event, the college : : man knows that Nusbaum's can : E outfit him with good clothes. 5 • • . : • • • • • • • • • • • a • • • • • • • • • • • • • : Style and quality characterize our merchandise. : • • : You have no doubt head campus conversation : • • : like this: : • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • : \New suit or shoes or shirt 11 -etc. : • • • • : \How do you like it?\ : • • • • .• liN• I k. II • • 1ce oo 1ng. • • • • • : \Where did you buy it?\ : • • • • • • • • ! \NUSBAUM'S\ i • • • • • • • • • .................................................. River1 Over·' Undefeate1 Ahead: Is Union's runr ,:;tacit against tomorrow aft! l•ield fur the s the year. Last ets fell befoi rnore than twc for a repetitio a!'e r•unning •b Rive With most e turning, the I we 11-rounded squad against los::l of Wane the greatest .j ::Jcoring puncl the best mic the cross-stat Last year ag. victories in t mile feature uuc by inche J:!;d Bastedo. first Philips 'I'wo excel with the Ca: ever, who w with plenty <luat·ter 1nite opinion, a steps the dis 51.4 which 1 in the 220 ond visitor feet. La::lt ye ion men wit spurt that 'le tnation. Anc ion men laE pear in the s Coach Ket ray of mer opening enc etts State Cc to offer thc with not to necessary. Pet formal have been d ing the wee ning havin: the boys an the team tl urday. The field co-captains ton. Nag i Krull over ually be de discus wit! Milano will t!iscus and fourth Un event. Burton il possibly tl drawn alon the latter meet Satu form this Krull are throw wit! third Unio appear in Han·y My Johnnie week, and the hund: Bowie in some, Vi Wally HUi Neumann Gammons Gammons week anc bruises st tedo Reir the mark lanky Bli tive team lapper. Union's Grant 81 will take events. A win a lot to pointing son. R. little res stumblin and Han Forty- places I Dutchni• We fear brolten reach f cop a fi JDvide helped.s fastest 1 -somet First tennis by Sun be exte

of of of of of of of .. be 1 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • II • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • II • • • • • • • • • • . • : • • • • • Ill • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • , : • • • • • • • .... THE CONCORDIENSlS, FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1936 Five == Trackmen Meet Rochester Tomorrow; Ten Faces Syracuse Rivermen Seeking Victo Over 'Track ·alld Field ~Team. Sports Schedule Toclay 3 :3() Te:nnis Match with Will- iaoos at WiHiamstown Tomorrow Orange to Bring Strong Outfit to Union Campus Outstanding Lacrosse Team to Face Is Composed for the Most Part Of Football Players Ga1·net Va1·sity Nine Defeated by Orange and Black, 4-1 Despite Guy Griswold's five-hit ,pitching, the varsity basebal~ nine lost to Syracuse at the Salt C1ty on Tuesday, 4 to· 1, as Bert Ryan, Otange tosser, yielded but two hits. It was the first game of the home and home series between the two colleges, and Syracuse will play the Undefeated Season Loo Ahead If Rochester Is :Beaten Union's runners and fieldmen ,:;tacl{ against :Rochester Lomorrow afternoon on .A:lexande lcield for the second Garnet meet of the year. Last year the Yellowj ack- ets fell befol e the Dutchmen:. by rnore than twenty points and h-opes for a repetition of this perfo11m:ance a!'e 1•unning high. Ri vermen Strong With most of last year's teanlH'e- turning, the Rivermen will pla.ce !I well-rounded and fairly st.1ong. squad against the home team. 'The loss of Wanen Philips is· perha:ps the greatest blow to t.he R.och. est.er ~coring puncl'l. 1-'hiUps was one of the best middle distance ,·unners the cr·oss-state college has evet· had. Last year against Union he scored victories in the half mile run:., the mile feature and was only b<eaLen uuc by inches in the two-roller by J!;d bastedo. This defeat was t.t1e first Philips Ever experienced- Two excellent runnel'S remain with the Camera City team, 'he>w- ever, who will furnish the (.}-arnet with plenty of opposition. \V/o.rd q uat·ter mile star is, in Bill Eet.:z:s opinion, a beautiful runner-. :He steps the distance in the vicin.ity ot 51.4 which 1s plenty fast. Bassage in the 220 yard dash is the sec- und visitm blessed with winged feet. Last year he defeated th:e Un- ion men with a twenty-two s:.econd spurt that ·Jeft nothing to the im..ag- tnation. Andrews, deteated b:v Un- ion men last year, will again ap- pear· in the half mile event. Same Lineup Coach Ket:z will use the sarne ar- ray of men as took part i:.n the opening encounter with Mass:achus- etts State College. This lineup seems to offer the best possible b.ala..nce with not too many double entries necessary . Pe1formances of the Garnet team have been decidedly below par dur- ing the week, generally sloppy run- ning having cropped up al:llongst the boys and they looked little like the team that performed last Sat- urday . Star Two-.lVliler WILLIAM H. HAWliES REVERBERATIONS By SI 2 :00-T·rack Meet with Roches- ter, Alexander Field Most 4 :00 \-Lacwsse Game with Syra- CU<Oe, Alexander Field l F~rus'll 'lake Albany High in Home Tilt d f second game here on May 8. The lacrosse team will attempt to maintain its recer · 0 The Dutchmen apparently were not havino· been beaten on its home grounds when they in a hitting slump, in addition to l )lay host to the Syracuse llnivet·sity ten Saturday, on the .making five errors in the field, and .were unable tu approach the fine Li bra.t V Field. showing they made against Stevens It wili be the fourth game of the<e> -- ---- --- ---- laat Saturday. The Garnet run was present season for the Garnet. vic- I . scored in the first inning as a re- Tt·ounce Capitol Team, In Three .. Hour Contest The f·reshmen really \went to .town\ on Albany High School Tue~­ ,day after\noon for they swamped the Capitull::~<b, lS to 7, putting up a fifteen-bit barrage which netted torious on their last two appear-~likely to be .m shape for lacrosse :;ult ·of a hit by Fiore and a sacrifice ances, scoring over Dartmouth's before the nnddle of May. by Mal'la and one by Cadwallader. Indians 9-5 last Friday, and then Red headed Phil Meier, together After that spurt, the Hatfieldmen ·following up the next day with a with Fran Thiel and AI Quinn are were subdued in regular orde1·, the 19-2 shellacking of an M. I. T. team, the men to watch when the Syl,a- only other hit being a two-bagget· which could hardly be classified in cusans have the ball. Thew defense by Phil Duc•hscherer. the same league. is headed by Jontos, a h~ndsome Hobart has a win over the Dutch- brute of awesome propo:t1ons and orange Scores men chall{ed up two weeks ago at Fletcher. Maury Perlstem, an in- The Syracuse outfit, on the other Gen~va. Since that time the maes- ne~ defPnse man last year .. ha:S been hand, took advantage of eve1 Y up- ·I·o, BI.ll Hat·l{.Jless, has brought sh·l.fted to. centels' toe capitaliZe on b U . - h t 1 d portunity afforded them y nwn a run in every inning but Colby Jones worked for the .eight innings, and had rnat- prettl' much unde1 control them along fast as evidenced by the 16 excep wna pe · misplays, and tallied tWo runs in convincing di~play of last weekend. · -- ~- o~~---\ the fiist and sixth innings. The first Burns Barford, a new goalie, N t y 11 W t 0 inning runs came about by two hits ~hoved 1·nto the bt·eech ,·n the Ho- e men 0 ey ay · 0 n~ h · · \ and two errors, t e rema1nmg 1 he weakened toward the latter t of the last frame and was re- eved by- Mac Stewar·t. The year- ngs will not play again until May 5, when they will engage DTaper bart game has been the pretlomi- Point Victory Over 01·ang·e tallie::o being accounted for by nant operative in tightening up the doubles by Cassetta and Mamossar, leaky defense of the first few and a >Jingle by Simonitis which weeks. So outstanding has been the The Garnet tennis team emerged went for a triple on Duchscherer's High Sc~ool of this city on the home diamond. play of Barford against the admit- victorious in its second tilt Wed- error in left field. tedly weaker attacks of Dartmouth neBday against Syracuse, the score The game was really a pitching and M. I. T. that Johnny Marsella, being 5-4, on the home courts. The duel between Ryan and Griswold, the 01 iginal keeper of the nets, hall spirited play of Joe Cohen a.nd the but Union errors gave Syracuse hud nu chance to r·edeem himself winnmg form of Fritz Hawley, the edge in the matter of runs. It Nine In First Getting to Albany's starting pit~her, Sautin, for nine runs in the first inning, the frosh continued to pou.nd the second twilled, Lemiline, in actual competition. who, despite his lapse in the second was not a spectactular game, for Goalie Doubtful set, was rnaste1· of the play the there was but one double play and had matters their own way for The starting combination have the duration of the game, which not been the same in any two lasted until 7:30 P. M. Jones pitch- games as Harkness has continued ed good ball, striking out seven. to experiment in an effort to un- vvalking seven, and giving seven cover the strongest possible ar- hits, and was not touched for more rangement. The definite selection of than thrte clean blows during the a r·egular goalie will probably de- game. Controy, Amazon, and Millet· pend upon the· scrimmage with the carried the bw·den of the slugging freshmen yesterday. Both Marsella for the yearlings, Controy gathet- and Barford WP!'P given equal op- . ing a single and a triple, Amazon portunity to check the yearli.ngs' at- two doubles, and Miller a t1 iple, a tack, the most effective work double, and a single. Frankie Myets seeming to indicate Barford as the also contributed four timely singles starting man. The remainder of the to the cause, and was the origin- lineup is to be the same as that of ator of several Union rallies. last week-end with MacMurray, Fail to score Bergman, J. Smith, Templeton, Fra- ser, V. Smith, Wandecar, Liffiton, .Albar1y bad lots of men on bases, and Kennedy. Potts, Lawrence, ciu.e to walks and err01s, coupled Robinson, and Knox form the first with th.eir seven hits, but were un- reserve cm·ps, all being practically able to score several times with two on a par with the first ten. So far ot· t.h1ee on board. It wa:s this three men have done most of the .fa.ilu.Ie to hit at critical periods Garnet scoring. Jack Smith leads which hindered the high school with eleven goals, followed by Hal b<>ys, but it is doubtful that even Vandecar and Hugo Bergman, with whole way, gave Union th.e conte::;t, made, only four extra-base hits, six Hawley ran through his first set bases on balls, and seven strikeouts. at love, disposing with his left- It was a tough game for Union to handed opponent Bob Dix<>n in a lose, but there will be an oppo.r- comparatively easy manner, but tunity to make it up on May 8, succumbed before the \po<>p ball\ when the return game is played on tactics of his wily shotrna.ker in t:.be Alexander field. second. A strong tush in the final ,;et, marked by much hard stroking, gave Hawley the match It was Hawley's smashing ove1beads and aggressive ground strokes that carried the day for the nUinber one doubles combination . McGee, Colten Win A hard slicing backhand and. a steady reliable serve were the chief weapons that Joe Co·hen used in cutting down Rogers of Syracuse. He was not as fortunate in the dual match which was lost. The other matches did not display the best talent, but were marked by much dogged. determination, especla.lly in Capt. McGee's gruelling singles. Friday the team travels to Will- aimstown to meet a Purple net team, fresh from a white washing over Bowdoin. The summary of the Syracuse match is as following: Singles - Hawley defeated R . Dixon, 6-0, 2-6, 6-2; Cohen defeated Rogers, 6-2, 6-1; McGee defeated Belden, 4-6, 6-3; Orton lost to D. Morton, 4-6, 1-6; Finch lost to Levin, 7-5, 2-6, 2-5 and Salad defeated Sltolsky, 6-4, 5-7, 6-1. Doubles-Hawley-McGee defeated Levine-Bloom, 7-5, 6-2; Finch-Hal- lenbeck lost to Morton-Dixon, 3-6, 0-5; and Cohen-Baxter lost to Rogers-Skolsky, 6-3, 3-6, 3-6. The field events will be heBtded by co-captains Naguszewski and :Bur- ton. Nag i:3 due to take <Charlie Krull over this weelt al'ld can. .us- ually be depended upon to ta.lte the discus without much troul>le. Joe Milano will appear in t11e shot and discus and Kruesi will ma..lte the fourth Union man in the .fatter event . Burton in the high and p-<Jle and possibly th.e broad. He W!Wl ~ltb­ drawn along with Sherm Hir-st :f1om the latter event in the <>pening meet Saturday and may r:..ot .per- form this week. Jack Bloo1n. and Krull are slated for the ja:. velin th1 ow with Van Wert mak:ing .the third Union member. Alan also will appear in the pole vault ale>ng with Han·y Myers . As the first column explained, that wouJ.d have made much differ- eight and seven respectively . this literary gem is not intended ence, s<> complete was the manner The Big Orange team which ship- to be original, but a conglomm·a- in which the· freshmen went about ped out of Syracuse yesterday is tion of notes which are dug from their victory. It was the first time coached by Roy Simmons who as- the exchanges. This week, hoVI· in six games over a course of two sists Vic Hanson in producing the ever, even the exchanges seem to years tha.t a Union freshman team football team in the fall and coach- be failing us. Desperately we have hao won, and it appears probable es boxing in his other spare rna- hunted, but the d!lshed inform.a· th.at tnis year's outfit will take ments. Despite the fact that he lost tion on our opponents is very m.ore before the season closes. ten veterans from last year's team . scarce. We may have to look The shifting in the Union lineup Simmons has predicted a success- through the Skidmore News to was partly responsible for the way ful year for the Orange, although finish this column. in wh.ich the infield perfoi me d. he is noted on the Hill for his Gil- The boys 011 the tennis teltJI! Silly 'Thomas' presence at short dobian pessimism. In Ollie Hague are going .to leave their Prom seemed to give· the team added bal- he thinks he has one of the best dates for the aftel'llOOn and t.ra- ance for only two errors were goal prospects in recent years. The vel over to Williamstown todily com.~itted Tuesday as against question marlt is the offense which to try and eve11. up for last wee~s seven last Saturday· was slowed up by its inexperience defeat by Annhei'St. Apparently ' ---o--- in the first games with the Alumni, the inclement IVea.ther has not Hamilton Swamps Golfers Army, Navy, and Dartmouth. Army been confined ·'to Schenectady,. :for • • 7 •) beat them badly, but as soon as the Williams comtmen are a.lS() In lnittal Contest, -., some of the football playing L\egu- lacking in outdoor practice. 'l.a~st Iars began to report back from Dash Men Johnnie Glen, surprise winn~rlast week, and Hirst will take ea.re of the hundr-ed. Hirst, Saiewitz: and Bowie in the 220 and tha.t t.hree- some, Vi Fryer, John R-<Jss and ·wally Hughes, in the quarter . .Jerry Neumann will team with Warren Gammons for the half 1nlie run. Gammons was hurt earli~ r f.n the week and is still recoverLng from bruises su.stained in a fall. Ed Bas- tedo Reinhardt and Grant will' toe the mark for the mile event. with lanky Biil Hawkes and his diminU\ tive team:roate, Hewitt, in the eight week the Purple met the tennis- Spring practice the offense began seers from Kaverford and were ex- vVinnlng only two individual to hum, and they rallied to throw pecting a win• The Williams R.ec.- matct1es, the Union golfers were a scarce into Navy, one of the ord has railed us, so there will. :be defeated 7-2 in their first match of strongest In the East, before losing · no false deduetlons from co-mr-ar- the season against Hamilton at 8-6. It was this Navy team which ative scores. Cllnt<>n Wednesday. Johnny Emans · swamped Dartmouth 21-0, earlier About 1875, the crew at Williams and Ken Bwwn, both veterans of in the season . lapper. * * * Union's one-two co:niboinatlon- Grant Soolth and Cla..rk Slt.ields- will take care of both hurdling events. * * * was discontinued, but some of the year's team, were the winners d' · th for trnion . Williams boys are rscussmg e Ralph Tna tcher was unable to possibilities of reviving that manly carne behind on the last green and sport. The B:t·oolt That Bounds, lost nis match to Kelly of the Clin- and the old M:ohawk will have to h h be careful since the fever rnay· tonites 1 down. Phil Little, w o as been turning in the best scores on spread to Union. c thi was Out armmd Syracuse way til.e ·the Mohawk ourse s year, hi set back 6-5 by Dick Govern. boys are busily polis ng cro!SS~ Emans and Brown both tm·ned in and prepa.rlng for a successflll :!lea- 2-1 .v-ictories, while all of the best son. So far, the season has beem b•ll ~atches were taken by Hamil- nJJ. of that. 'L'omorrow the U:mi():il ~ L•• squad will meet the lacrosse ton. team from Syracuse. Lets bope The Summaries: that the rrorn isn't too mucil.. for Individllal Matches- Brown <Ul the teaut. ·Or maybe the ProiJl defeated Sapanora <Hl 2-1; D . A win over Rochester 'IOIIIili. mean committee could be induceil. -to Govern <H> defeated Little <U> a lot to the team in their efforts give ticltets to the Orange squad 6 • 5 ; Ernans (Ul defeated F. Govern pointing toward a successful .sea- so that b<>th. teams would sta..:;t <H> 2-1; Kelly <Hl defeated That- son. R. F. I. is expected. .to offer the game on an even basis. cher <U> 1 up; Edwards (Hl de- little resistence, the two re10aining A columnist in 'The Syra.cuse feated Froelich <U> 2-1; and stumbling blocks being V<ennont Daily orange mentioned the fa.<:t Sabine <H> defeated Langer <U> and Hamilton. that football co-captain E<l. Jon- 2-1. Best Ball Matches-F. Govern * * * · tos and George Perrault were la.te and D. Govern defeated Little a.nd Forty-seven consecutive first for lacrosse practice and didn't IDmans 5-3; Boswards and Sabme places have been scored l::ly .the see much action in a scrinu~age. defeated Froelich and Langer 2-1; Dutchmen over a tw<> yeo.ar per1od. Maybe Ed and George wlll .be late and Kelly and Sapanora defeated we fear the winning stre:ait ·will be for the Union game, we hope. Tha..tcher and Brown 2-1. Syracuse Lineup In practice scrimmages on Hen- drick's Field the varsity ten has· lined up with Hague, goal; Jontos, point; Sugarman, coverpoint; Flet- cher, first defense; Quinn, second defense; Perlstein, center; Sargis, second attack; Porter, first attack; Thiel, out horne; and Meier, in home. Another probable starter is George Perrault, co-captain with Ed Jontos, and star guard on last season's football team. Jake Eckert, Bob Shallish, Bill Byrne, Dibner, and Eldred are the luminaries of the jayvees who provide competi- tion for the varsity posts as well as an aggressive squad for practice purposes. One of last year's lumi- naries who probably will not make the trip is Jimmy Nolan, another grid man, who holds forth on the defense when he is available. He is still out for football, and is not brolten tomorrow but u~ey should One week later, the b~tseball reach f '\fty before the Ri vermen team from Syracuse will meei t;lle h t thl tim ~ s \' tad r 1 ps ing staff. Althoug a s e cop a five-pohlter. Garnet at cu.enec y, era full statistics on the game a1•e not * * !~:Ug·:~:st t~~es~:::: 1 d=t ;~; a.vn,ilable the Orange pitchers SPORTING GOODS OF ALL KINDS Elvidently that fall of Gammons Concordiensis spoke earlier (}:f the s.ecEII to' have done all right by helped a. little. Yesterday he 1·an ~he weakness of the sy 1 •acuse IJitch- then1selves . fastest 6BO in his career CJf runmng ~~~~;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~~~~~======fl -sometblng like 1 :2~.7. r ----0 Tennis Notiee First rounds of the intramural tennis competition must. be play~d by Sunclay night. No rn.atclles Wlll be extended after th.is time . N. OTTAVIANO DRESS CLOTHES HEADQUARTERS 227 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. RAINCOATS KEDS BATHING SUITS Alling Rubber Co . 254 State St. for P·rom - and for real comfort wear one of our new Palm Beach Tuxedos . White Coats $12.50 Coat and Trousers $18.50 Joseph's Stan. Joseph Union '21

Six :For Alma Mate~r • First Showing of Noah THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1936 F1·osh Stiekmen Prepare FoT Stevens to .Speak May 7 May 9 Opening With Syracuse On Stratosphere Flight. P11rlty Ultimatum guided playWl'ight or producer are 11 . · 11 1 Mountebanks to Give By MILTON D. BEDELL : The freshman lacrosse aggrega- tion is at present ironing out the rough spots which became apparent: during the course of a practice game with Glens Falls last ·Satur-' day, in preparation for one of the toughest schedules of a Union Spring sport. Capt. Albert W. Stevens, holder on occasion great, nevertheless 'Wlll \The theatre which has lowet•ed be boycotted.\ The Rev. Dr. Philip a great art to a disgraceful level, J. Furlong of Cathedral College de- ' even though the talents of :rnis- livers a sermon at ,St. Patrick's. !!==============:::!· <Continued from Page 1) of the world's altitude record of:-------~----~-----~--~------~--- 'To begin with it i,; no more than tion that is paralleled in few plays. proper to welcome feminine pulch- In production details, \Noah\ is ritude of undetermined quantity to extremely colorful, with specially the Union ca·mpus. Of courose, tn designed costumes and scenery. De- my particular caose, most of that , ~oigning and executing their cos- w~:lcome goe,; to those visitors froin , tumes for the filst time, the ward- our finishing oschool northward.- robe staff under Ralph Cohen has T.he extreme proximity makes it. made adaptations of Javanese unwise to devote too much at ten- sarongs for the three young wo- tion eisewheve sshhhhhhhh!-Any- men, The sons wiH be dressed in how, welcome! Arrive breathlessly;, loincloths, and the hunter is a leo- have a \marvt>Ious\ time and when: pard ~kin. Mama and Noah ar-e you \t'ave Sunday, <.1!:> it reluctanHy costumed from original sketches by after all, he's probably sorry to Cohen. see you leave E>ven if you were an Also quite interesting are the Pxpensive luxury. animal costumes, procured by ar- lt sPPms a slm.nu; that nothing rangemer:it with Btooks of New !'an bl\ done auout om· tennis cou.l'ts. York. Almost impressionistic, they AftPr s 1 wnding in the vicinity ·()of are nevertheless faithful and amus- $:{,500 to put tht•m in exePilen.t con- ing in design. dition tlwy cPrtainly should not he The cast of the play is as follows: Iwhaving at-> they do. EvPry thne a William W. Mulvey '38, Arthur J. littl<o\ gust of wind coml's along, dol- Firth '36, Donald M. FE'nton '37, Iars of that coo;t pricl\ are being de- Douglas Stevenson '39, Robert posit!'d abl>ut the campus. ThPre Shreve '36, Benjamin Cohen '38, shoultl ht• some way to r•pmPdy the Clarence Clatk '36, AaroB Reimann situation !UHl prolong thP life of '39. Edward Wells '39, Robert E. tht\ <\<Hirts. Tanner '39. RobNt C. Walter '39, Jame.s C. R. Wade '39, Burns F. Syracuse Central High School, holder of the New York State high school championship, will provide the opposition for the first game, on May 9. Thereafter, in all tm> rapid order, will come invaders from Onondaga Valley .Academy, WiUiams frosh, and Manhassett · High School. Coach Fred Wyatt is satisfied with the team's showing so far and believes that the present frosh team is an improvement over last year's. The outstanding men to date are Joe Paul at center, Doug Blue at first attaclt, and Fred Pipito a.t in home. The arrival of new lacrosse sticks and increased practice sessions will no doubt make for improvement. --~·o,---- COLLEGE IS FAILING Will! the faculty bull team bowl- Barford '37, Ann Quigley, Helen ing- \ver one opponent after the Loomis, Marie Palmer, Edith Alex- \Colleges are failing misera·bly in ot:hei', the 'l uestion of adequate op- anderson. aiding students to apply what they pusition a1 i:;es. Many collegecl par- have learned of theory to what they t idpat Pin t•xrhange games with the Special music and dances have need to learn of experience.\ Justin 14 miles, will describe his hip in · illustrated lectures on afternoon and evening May 7 at the Mont Pleasant High .School. Stevens wHl illustrate his lecture with both motion pictures arid slides, made from photo.graphs taken when his balloon was high above the earth. A lecture will be given at 3:30 in the afternoon for school chlldPen,, and the evenipg lecture will be open to the ,public. · This will be the concluding l~cture of the series; including Dr. Beebe, Admiral Byrd, and Frank Bucl{, which have been held this season for the benefit of the school's mu- seum fund. ~--0>---- w Ol'l{S for Ph. D. DURHAM, N. C., April 3()-Wil- liam Denison WiHiams, Scotia, N. · Y., is one of more than 40 Duke university graduate students sub- mitting dissertations for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at the local institution this year. He has taken worl' here in the department of Physics a:nd has written on the sub- ject, \The Energy Loss of Fast Williams I'E\ceived his B. S. and M. S. degrees from Union College. fal\uit ie~ uf th respective colleges. also been arranged. Miller, assistant United States At- The iut·a i,; worth considering and Tickets for thP pel\for mances can torney General, states an ec.luca- P•·• hapH sonwthit 1 g can be done still be 1 esPI VPd at the News tiona! theory in the light of his ex· PATRONIZE! \CONCORDY\ a bout thP ~it nation. Along that line Bureau. perience. ADVERTISERS WP und~~unc.l buttukc no respon· ~.----------~-------------------~-----~-~ Hibility fat· \.he authenticity ·-that thl' faculty at Vus:sut· wer·e di:s· gJtlC<'fllily uPft•ated by the students. Not lhltt it's uf u.nv intl'II'est to you-l'eddie (it's lot•u.t~·.d in llights- town, N. ,J., in cust• nnyone is du- bious) has retunwd to pron1inen<.>t' by way of a championship ball chtlJ. After tnking a bacl• seat fur anum- bPt\ of yt•als tlu·~· han• once nH>lP attained state wide attention in tlu•ir drht\ fur thl\ prhate schu~l t•haJllpionshiJI. Uel'e's ln<\l• tu then!. WASHABLE and SUNTESTED WALL PAPER Government Standard Paint Products Complete Line of 'Decorative Materials Call 4-4700 Call 2-831,6 1006 ('JtANE ST. 515 STATE ST. 225 iUOHAWK A YF.. Mt. Pleasant ('m·rier Stnte nnd Bal'!'ett Sel)tla \1\\ltisperings Baseball team com· ylain,; t ht·y 111 e being :;tarved on their t1ips they are going to see if Jim has any new clothes after the next A visit to a burlesque has tll!'ee uf the nint• st>riuusly consider· ing the fPasibility of becoming comedians in such a show-- He1·m found out that hotel bills in the big city are tcn·iblr high on some occasions What middle distance r·unner told one of the freshman not to beat him 'cuz it would make hin1 look bad?. A new swimming poo is in tlw maldng if the \jug kP~·pers\ are osucces,;ful in secUI·ing the exorbitant sum of money N1ey are now demanding the SANTA MARIA Columbus' Flag Ship Claudie of the basPball nine .. a c<'r lain Skid-maid will take a baclt srat whilP the home town g-al •·omt•H to the big city \Vhat was that <'ffigy supposrd to represent that was so pmminently displayed \11 a table in a Dell's newly painted room'! The insE>rtion of the \moral I•Pha vitJt\ cln ll~P in Home of those J•I iYt':< rnu:-:1 ha\'t' Pliminatf'd a lot •·f pn•sJH'<'I:' Lud<v that t hP ran· \.1s about th•• b:dt' fiPld won't bP u,,, ·d 't II twx I fail \Vha t wnuld tlw rnaj<>ritv of thP ft·ilows do w!ten t.ht>y ,.,;uld no longer while away tlwit· time in pit'asant conversation \ltth it•t•·JPot~ uutstd£' tlw hairit•r '! 0· Fraternities Huld Seventeen Dances tContinuPd from Page J) and Mrs. Earl \V. Nicklas and Mr. and 1\lr,.;. AI I In! I\ \'a nDeu;;Pn. [>hi l'ligmn DPita will entertain their Jllt>lll ).:llf''t' :tt a ditlnt'l p:tlt~' thts E'Vening. l{appa Nu will hold an informal vktr.ola party tomonow mght. The l'hi Sigma Kappa and Sig- ma Chi fr alt·Initi<-;; art· holding- a 1•oir1t datwt• torntllltl\.V t•Vf'nin~ with Nt•l.-on Kat!':-< 111 rhPst ra J•layin!(. <\hap•·tt>tH·:-: will lw ~!r. and Mn. ,S,, mul'! B 111\A n, ~I L and M J '· liPoigP Hw;spJi, Mr. and MI~. iJt'- land (io<lda!d and 1\lr. and Mrs. Larry Ha urst. Tht> Theta Delta Chi fratl'l·nity haH two affai 1 s plannrd, a ]JI'P-prom dinner par·ty tonight and a tea dance tomorrow afternoon. Playing for the dance will tJp Don Rettaliel< and chaper- oning D1. and Mrs. Lutz and Mr. and Mr.,;. Howard Smyth. Theta Nu B:psilon with Mr. and Mr~. Haloid Otto as chaper·ones will dane<> inf01 maliy to mot row evening. Sigma Phi is holding a wel'kf'nd hou:-<e party and a lea dance tomorrow. Mrs. Che~tcr l'lawell Is rhaperoning the house party an<l Mrs. Fn•del\iek Bronner will be in attenc.lance at the dance. Freddie Kay',; orche\tra will play. .. Student Council-- (Conti lll!('d fnml Page 1) served on the Junior· Boai<l of tlw l:-ltudent Council and j,.; a member of the track team. Richard Kennedy is a member of the Phi Delta Theta Fraatl'rnity and reside>~ in Champlain. He is a member of the Swimming team and lacrosse squac.l. John Sloatman of Norwood, Pa, belongs to lhe Chi Psi Frataernity. He Is on lhe football team and has two years experience on the council. The Student Council will :meet Monday night at 8:00 p. m. in the Student Council room in ordet· to elect its new preside11t. @ 1936, l.lGGBTT & .MYJIRS TOBACCO Co, .,and now throughout the world smohers are saging 7ierS'ati5h ~-~~\ ihe ship that ····· .. ·· ·.·· .·. .·.·.• .. ...•. \··: . '~ ~\tht~$ JO . . ,. .· .· History tells us that when Christopher Columbus' sailors took tobacco hack home with them everybody hailed it as one of the fhst new pleasures in years. Today tobacco gives more pleasure to more people than ever before. Many different claims are made for tobacco, hut most everybody agrees on this ... Smoking is a pleasure and the cigarette is the mildest and purest form in which that pleasure can be enjoyed. :: Public He~ Elec Vol Ll·X., Rober, Electe 01 st~ ,Eleetions Sched fo Eve res Director Secret! H MGnday, son Everef Y., was e' Unic>n Call president was anncH elections b Charles M L.I. Electionl cers to t: talce place the gover: pointment to the pu made nex.t The reti dent coun' B. Grisw vice-presic of Sc·hen Burton B treasurer. Irrverest, standing I social an• ties, is or leader o which wil at Pilot l He is Christian in that < up the id camp at college ti part in t which hi Y Forun: rnas Ca which sp this year He is ! lor of a consisten Dean's I He is ·afl silon fta Obel Casi Tonig close tlt m.ance o M:. E. Cl The N•otth w a well which , sufficiei give iu to the Nonh played in the with pc a chant inspire• winninl Thoma: tain tht audien< ful int With ll vocal i able pt Aye stage • 'l'enaci gave c well cc expres Firth I cos tun His ficient Wit! Papa, allowe vidUal chara.t the fl flirt, citizer :Mis; weal.:. to gal Quigl' respo· and ment1

are will de- One Frosh Publication Cap Heads Burnt Elected .I Vol. Ll·X., No. 56 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, 1IAY fl, 1936 PRICE FIVE CENTS Robert Everest '37 Sherman Burns Freshman Elected Chairman 'Dink' on Moving· Up Day State Penitentiary ~ona~torHarvar~Quotes 1 Publications Board Elects v· •t d b S . l College Rhymes of H.A.L. St lllSldye £1royup TOoCdlaay It was at a din:e~of the staff o: ~E·~d· lft>·tors o, f. Idol an' d Garnet 0 (1 ·st d t C \} The time-honored custom of ·.· 1 · · :u en . OUDCl , burning freshman caps was up- held by one student on Moving- Up Day when Jesse Sherman of the class of 1939 tossed a \dink\ on. the bonfire in front of the Idol. ' 'tJ! . the Harvar·d Lampoon. PI e,;ruent j Conant of Harvard was one of the :;peake!d. He wanted tu impll'b!> the R' 1 t d F d Ch (_' d'ensis Manag·ers· Lan•abee and Ft'etlch Arrange Trip Through C'omstocl{ State Institution Lumpuon st:J.!I V>llh tile lllljHll lullr!' lg' 1 er an or osen ,OflCOr 1 9 ot puol!city 1or 1-iatva·rct:o 1ercen- Helm and Davis Co-editors of Literary ,Elections of Oth.et· Officers Scheduled for Next Council Meeting Sherman removed a moth eaten cap from his pocket and amidst the cheers of a small gathering, t'emoved the green button, and tossed the ragged remains to the wnu.,y Ceiclnatwn. :>o he malle u M • F d y B k H d vety :;hurt but impreB,;ive speech. ag·aznle; or ear 00 ea Everest Student Leader Director of Freshnun Camp, Secretary of Y. M. ('. A., Honor Student · flames. The crowd anxiously awaited for more caps to appear, but when none were forthcoming, Charles M. Krull, president of the Student Body announced that the t·est of the cap burning ceremonies would be dispensed with. Mc.nday, May 14.--Robt'rt Denni- son Everest '37 of Gloversville, N. Y ., was elected chairman of the Union College student council and president .of the student body, it was announced tonight after the elections by the retiring president,· Charles M. Krull '36, of Lynbrook, L.L Elections of the remaining offi- cers to the student council will talre place at the next meeting of the governing body, and the ap- pointment of the senior student to the publications board will be made next year. The retiring officers of the stu- dent council besides Krull are Guy B. Griswold of Coatesville, Fa., vice-president; Joseph E. Milano of Sc·henectady, secretary; and Burton B. Delack of Schenectady, treasurer. Everest, who is one of the out- standing leaders on the campus in social and ext1 a-curricular activi- ties, is originator and first student leader of the fr·eshman camp which will be held next September at Pilot Knob, Lake George. When interviewed by a member of the ConcDrdiensis staff, Sher- man stated, \I've always been a rugged individualist, and besides the cap wrum't worth keeping. I hope that I'm not too optimistic. Maybe I'll have to 'buy anothet' one next year.\ ---·01~-- Film of Freshman Nears Completion Pl'()fessor Smith Announces Pictures to Be Ready By Next Semester The fitst attempt to chronicle the average freshman's life at Union College through motion pictures which was begun last fall will be completed by the end of this college year, it was announced yesterday by Professor Edward S. C. Smith, chairman of the committee in charge of the production of the film. Warden Aids Study Students Expect to Receive Dit-ect Information by Actual Observation ln Ius adw es::; he quo,ccl a poem wmcn ;,tans: \l anr. tnc very wuue• u1 a modern coaege p1es•uent - . <'Leduent ~unant nau torgutten y\o ue.~.e tu~ pueHl ccnne IIUlll 01 wnu w J. ute 1t. .t\...-:~ rar as ne couru 1 enleru- uer 11e u~u Cllppeu 11 11om v·. 1~. A.:;. \..oumng 1 uwc< anu It wa::; oy h. A. L . .tH uny 1 ate 11 llau stU<:L< rn nrs HHnu auc1 poppeu out rn many :::~pec-cnes. Tuesday, May 5.-The Social tnte,e~ting to note is the fact Studies Di vi:; ion took another aca- dlJ.t llll' Ill) me, tuuue.ec~ a, Lt'< Lilt: ..JLjlt:~ OL 'ive .J. UdUC. t Ul u~1LJC1L anu ...:illlLh'Ull, Wd..::5 Wllllt:!ll lJ:f L...Il.~.Oll b th U.--t .... h Ul 0.1 plll1U~Up1lY, .Lh. !lUl UIU ... ~. LJL! dJJCe, ClllU .1.::1 uH.:.~.UUeU lll U. .. ct:euu;y }-luUllb!lCU cuueLL.Oil 01 lilb ~ve ... u:;,, · r.\nyrne.s Auuut L:ouege. .L.!..!Vt:n u1o~ e 1nte1 e::;ung l!:i tne Ht.CL .n ... t 1J1. Lonhnt anu J.)I. Lanaoee demic step forward today when it sent two· groups of students to the Great Meadow state pr·ison at Comstoclr, N. Y., to examine a phase of social and political life. Arrangements were made by Dr. Harold A. Larrabee and Dr. Pat- terson A. French, faculty members of the two groups through the aid ..ve1 e ~tuuem,; at H.at vatu at tile of V\larden John H. Wilson, in ~atue lllHC, tne 101·mer llemg or tne charge of that northern penal in- <!LU\'\ o, l:Ho, the tattet or tue cras\ stitution. Eleven sophomores from Dr'. Larrabee's sections in S. S. 10, Meth.()ds and Problems constitute the fin;t group. These students are all engaged in the analysis of some problem in penology for their fina;l report in the course, and ex- peel to· get first hand information by a visit to a large prison of this !rind. The second group is from Pro- fessor French's course S. S. 48, State and Local Government. The menbers of this course which studies state and local political in- stitutions through actual research and observation, both locally and elsewhere expect to· benefit by this field trip which will show them another aspect of the judicial wing of political life. Both groups will spend the afternoon at the prison and return this evening. Those students ln Dr. Larrabee's U.L .ltHti. ---o---~ Tentoni Concert Praised by Critic More Than 350 People Attend Fine Dedicatory Concert In Hale House By Al~THUR W. HEPNER Tllur•stlay, Ap1·il 30.-With the he&t quite appaLling, mote than 350 ,ncmbets and friend::; of the Faculty \Vomen·s Club of Union College 5athered in Hale House tonight to <ttiten to the voice of Rosa Tentoni, Monday, May 4.-Eleven students we1·e elected to editorhtl and nuumgel'ial positions on next year's Idol ~taff, the Con- cOl·diensis hoard, the 1938 Gamet, and the publications 1Joa1:d l.>y the present publications board in meeting thi.s af'ten10on. ---------------<$> Ferdinand Helm. '37, and John C. Davis, '37, will be co-editon; of t·he Idol, Union literary quarte!'ly, with Frederick W. Frost, '37, and S. Ralph Cohen '37, the other mem- bers of the senior board. No busi- ness manager has as yet been se- lected. Students to Inspect New York Asylams P:-<ycll()logy Students Tom Utica State H()spital, Rome State School Seventy-five students of abnor- mal and advanced experimental psychology will leave tomorrow morning tor a tour of two of New York's insane a;;ylums under the tlirection of Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, assistant professm· of psychology. Theit· first visit will be to the Rome State School for the Training of the B'eeble Minded. After lunch, the students will go to the Utica State Hospital where they will witness a clinical demon- ~tration. The following students will make the trip: Elected to fill the busine~s 0:nd circulation managerial positions on the Concordiensis staff are James vV. Righter '37, and Donald P. Fat. d '38. The 1938 Gamet board will con- si-st of Donald P. Ford, editor-in· chief; Melvin Mmoff, managing editor; William H. Hawkes, photo· graphic editor; and Edmond R. Arundel!, business manager. Garis Re-ele{!tf'd Dean Charles F. F. Garis was t·e- elected president of the publications board and Norman R. Stewart elec- ted secretary. Helm has been a regular contlib- utor to the Idol and was a memher of the junior board this year. In addition he is active in Concordi· ensis wor·k, the Mountebanks, and the Poetry Club. He is affiliated with the Delta Phi fraternity and lives in Schenectady. John C. Davis of Nutley, New Jersey, al:oo a contributor to the Idol for the past three years, i:o one of the odginal members of the Poetry Club. A Dean's List student, he is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fr·aternity. He is secretaiy of the College Christian Association and it was in that capacity that he brought up the idea of holding a freshman camp at the beginning of the next college term. He has talmn active part in the Y. M. C. A.'s program which has conducted tbe annual Y Forums, held the yearly Christ- mas Carol Song Festival and which sponsored for the first time this year an Easter Pageant. Scenes in the chronological order of their occurrence at the college have been taken during the past seven months, and with the com- mencement exet dses in June, the reel, expected to be about 400 feet long, will reach its logical conclu- sion. George Hart II of White Piains, a member of the freshman class, has played the leading role in the film, acting under the direction of Edward L. Carroll. Codman Hislop '31. assistant to Dr. Charles Wald- t·on in the Graduate Council office, has been serving in an advisory ca- S. S. 10 course are as follows: A. lyric soprano. The occasion was the Merriam, E. P. Preston, C. B. Hon- official public dedication of Hale ike!, H. B. Meyers, J. C. Bowie, Hou:;e. W. H. Hawkes, R. J. Madigan, R. William Katz, Joseph Cohen, Clarence Clark, William Maguire, Frederick Tietz, Geox·ge Truex, William Keens, Robert Russell, Leon Naguszewski, Sherman Hirst, Walter Williams, James Righter, Donald. Trumbull, James Palmer, Norman Stamler, William Helling, Andrew Papa, August Swyka, Irv- ing Dworsky, Irving Lifset, Charles Goddard, John Delamey, John Bloom. .Also Malcolm Arny, Herbert Wil· son, Geor·ge Ward, Robert Casey, Thomas McCullough, Frederick Feldman, Dominic Pitaro, Robet·t Galuten, Harold Friedman, K\ln· neth Tompkins, William Griesau, Jerome Cohen, Morris Righthand, ~1orton Yulman, George Denton, Oscar Miller, Rush Faville, Wil- liarn Nottingham, Frank Peck, Sherman Mills, George Putnam, Charles Sweet. Frost of Los Angeles, California, came to Union in September after completing two years at the Uni- versity of Southern California. D'\11'- ing this year he has contributed articles to the Idol and appeared in Mountebanks' productions. He is affiliated with Kappa Alpha. He is a candidate for the bache- lor of arts degree, and has been consistently mentioned on the Dean's List fot' high scholarship. He is .affiliated with the Delta Up- silon f1 aternity. (Continued on Page 4) Obey's 'NQah·' Effective Production, Cast Well Trained Says Reviewer By Vl~DDI>.:R J\1. GILBERT Tonight the Mountebanks will ally to studied poses, did not make close their season with a perfor- for a convincing portrayal of m.ance of Noah given at the Trinity Mama. 1'1.1. E. Church in Albany. Douglas Stevenson and Robert f Shreve took advantage of their VanW. Tiffany, J. c. Nott, J. W. fhete VIaS something distinctly Britten, and A. s. Grant. harmonious about the 1 ecitat. 'l·he Those in Dr. French's group are: mtlmacy of an evening song was W. A. LeForestier, M. Katz, w. G. wondetmlly suggebteu by the Forman,. F. Gage, J. A. Field Jr., cna1 nung mtim ... ~y and calm which ·R. D. Everest, W. P. Leonard, H. une ha,; leal ned to associate with B. Whitbeck, A. E. Baxter, W. Not- the new hall. Miss Tentoni's voice, tingham, M. M. Arny, W. A. Sei· although an enormous v01ce, was fert, L. F, Paulus, I. Lifset, W. not lu:;,, It was tutl, vibrant, and Freedman, I. Dworsky, A. D. Dubb, yet brought down to the sott ten- and R. H. Knox. c~etnes.; ue.r1~nued by a l!Vtnl;\, ro?m -~. -o or Hausrnus1k :;unoundtng. 10 say AI 'p • t• Lhat the evenmg reftecteu a spillt umnus aiD Ings i ut Hau:;mu:;ilt lti about the. ~est pic· <> • lture wnrch can be giVen. llle audr- }n Campus Exhibit ence wa:o relatiVEllY small tn com· pan::cou to other cune<:rt audtences. 1ile attitude was inf01mal. 8ome 24 Paintings by Townsend •:t~ Now Being Displayed In Old Gym Dorm ptefened to sit out 111 the students' LOUnge and smoke. Other,; walked tn the pre-natal garden and oreathed the fresh spnng ait while tistenmg to the music. Well Balancl\d Program The campus performances 0 small parts and packed their roles N•o!Lh were highly sucre~sful due to with suitable action making Japhet 11 well trained and directed cast and the Man more than mere pup· which was able to talte the self- An exhibition of twent,·-four col- ob · 1 d pets \ Even Miss Tentoni's program was sufficient lines of ey s Pay an Th'e ant'mals wet·c not w 1 'thout ot· ·paintings by Charles Lansing Sh f h .•. 1 zest pa1 t uf ~he pattern. e sang our give luster to t e uta ogue, d!'stJ'nc.tJ·on. Thank~ to the clev~r Pru''n Townsend, Union '32, is be- f · 1 th t h t . ~ ' group~: one o erg :1teen . cen UI y to t e ac ton. mask ct·eated by Bufano and the t.ll\' shown in the Old Gvm Dorm, b H ·' 1 c 11 d S o \ mus1c y anue, ava 1, an t· Noall ext'st:o for the protaginist subdued apt'shnes.·· of Edwar·d on the afternoons of this wt>ek f F h 1 · o bella; one o rene ync ~ongs; an played by William Mulvey. Mulvey, Wells, the Monl(ey became a very only, especially fol' college stu-. alia from Puccini's Madame Hut- in the past, has become identified JilteablP creature. dents under the auspices of tht> tet fly; and an atlmixture of Englbh with peasant types. In Noah he had Director Edward Carroll prover.! Schenectady College Women's and Italian songs. The program a chance to characterize a divinely 1 ·n Both Your Houses that he was Club. This is the fil'st showing on E!mrneron Cobb, Bemard Salad, Esmond Gifford, James Kimball, Richard Woodruff, Burton Delack, W. D. Cashman, Hanry Duch- scnerer, L. \V. Dane, John Hall, John Hallenbeck, Leon Saiewitz, Fay Begor, Stewart Eisenberg, Fenton Gage, Donald Baxter and Charles Gilmore. ·Cohen comes from Elizabeth, New Jersey. He is managing editor of the Concotdiensi:o. a member of the Mountebanks, choir, glee club, and News Bureau. He was recently elected to the Hale Club. Righter, Concot·diensis Manager Righter of Altamont, in his fresh- man year was on the first year la- crosse squad. In his sophomore and junior years he has been one of the mainstays of the Union fencing team. He is a member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity. Ford, a member of Chi P:;i, comes tContinued on Page 4) Prom Weekend Comparatively Mild Say Many Expe1·ienced Observers :Maybe it was the beautiful and various sandwichPs were the Vleather that directed the boy's favorite items on the menu and thoughts to other spring pastimes the orchestra although thwarted or maybe it is that the human m their efforts to secure beer race ts degenerating, but the fact di'Opped ·in for hamburgers and remains that the 1937 junior prom. coffee. h f ht a f · t' by a Un (Continued on Page 2> inspired farmer w o oug capable of handling intricate group~ the campus o pam mgs - winning battle with 'doubting ings. Noah demanded that many of ion alumrtus. was one of the dryest in many One visiting trotter, either im· years. This was the observation of ptessed by her escort or the several people who were at the waiter, concluded her checlr with Phi Beta Kappa Initiation . most advantageous points for the inscription, \Love Gz·etchen.\ ---01---- Thoma.ses'. Mulvey was able to re- the characters stand silently in one Mr. Townsend, who entered col- tain the interest of a nonresponsive corner of the stage while the chief lege in 1927, was very active in audience by his simple but force· cha!'acter speaks. One of the bard· extra-curricular activities at Un- ful interpretation of Papa Noah. est lhingH for an actor to do is to ion. Besides playing varsity foot- With an economy of gestures ar;d be inactive gracefully. Mr. Carroll ball and hocltey, a list of his col- vocal inflections he gave a credrt- met the problem successfully. Never Jegiate interests includes Mounte- clcse observation during the morn- Chairman Franklyn Con verse To Take Place Tomon·ow in.g hours. :was also present as the many au· able performance. did a silent member of the cast try banks Concordiensis, Garnet, Stu- ft th dent ·c' ouncil, TezTace Council, the A year ago Arthur Firth ~e e to steal a scene, nor did a stient E stage crew to play a role .m S: S. member ever allow his attention to Eonglish Club, and Phi Delta 'p· Tenacity. As Ham, the cyme, Frrth wander from the immediate action. silon. Mr. Townsend was gradu- gave color to his biting speeches ~y The audience did not suffer from ated in 1932 with an A. B. degree well coordinated movements, facial the annoyance of unnatural group- .He is a member of the Sigma Phi expressions and vocal inflections. ings. fraternity. . Fl 'rth had no chance to depend on a The outstanding blemish in the After leaving Union, Mr. Town- t h · 1 d'f send studied architecture at Bar- costume to put across his charac cr. production was that t e racta 1·- . . h' H is histrionic abilities were suf- ferences in Shem, Ham, and Japhet vard and landscape pamtmg, ts t d h th h specialty, under Hugh Brecken- fl 'cr\ent unto themselves. were not accen e enoug roug M h tt b tt d b th t t ·ridge in Gloucester, assac use s. With the exception of Mama, makeup to e spo e Y a par He is now teaching painting at the Papa, and Ham the autl;or has. n~t of the audienceltwho sat itn thet'lbatchk Albany Institute of History and allowed much opportu111ty of 1!ld1- of the house. was no un 1 e vidUal performances. The mmor dialogue in the last act expressed Al~e has shown many of his pain~- characters are humomus: Japhet, the difference that sfo~~ of t~~ be- ·ings in exhjbits around the Capr- the flamboyant youth; Norma, ~he wildered membe~s 0 • 'f~ au rene~ tol D·istrict and in Boston. The fll ·rt, and the nonunderstandmg gained the ful sJgm JCance ~ wor')(S which are on exhibition on Ham having domineered over hrs citizen. the campus now were shown last :Miss Anne Quigley's Mama was brothers. week at Mrs. Margaret Hanson Weal r. It tool( !·1er an entire a.ct In Noab Obey delivers a subtle ' t d' · S h n ctady ~ 1 M social message. The Mountebanks Aydelotte s s u J() m .~ e e • to gain the tempo of the P ay. tss succeeded in delivering it through sponsored by t~e Jumor L~ag.ue Quigley's hesitant speech, her tar~y their simple, yet effective, produc- and previously m the gallerres of response to the other characters, tion of the naive story of a gJ•ea.t the Albany Institute of History and her vague; awkward m9ve- and Art. m.ents which Bave way occt:ts1on- catastrophe. Tom, the campus cop, expressed tographed checks bear witness. the belief that the change in Mrs. Cyrus H. Briggs, hostess, al· Donald Trumbull and Michael liquors may have been responsible though fearful of the worst, was John T:ytko, newly elected members for the comparative mildness of greatly pleased with the conduct to the Union Chapter of Phi Beta the last two proms. Said Tom: of the diners throughout the night. Kappa, will be initiated Wednes- \That pre-prohibition liquor may Despite the dispute with the or- day, May 6th, at a meeting and din- not have affected the head much chestra over the number of hours ner at Hale House. The two in- but it certainly made the legs they were to play <due to the dif· itiates were elected at the meeting wobbly;\ At any rate drunks were ference between Standard and of the chapter on April 21st. a.t a minimum Saturday morning Daylight Saving time}, the general Burton B, Delack, Robert S. and Tom has been watching prom disapproval of the orchestra's cos- Langer, Donald C. Miller, Robert Q. goers for many years. tumes, and the failure of the com- North, and Carl E. Olsen who were mittee to provide Mr. Jones with initiated last November will be Hale House furnished a quiet a sufficiently large music stand present at the ceremony to welcome r·endezvous for about three hun- the prom was accorded a success. the two members. dred people between the hours of Two hundred and seventy-five cou- Professor David S. Morse of the 10:00 p. m. and 5:00 a. m. The pies were in attendance and Chair- Mathematics Department will be in dining hall was filled twice by man. Converse estimated the profit charge of the initiation. An address the general exodus from the gym to he about three hundred dollars. of welcome to tile initiates will be during intermissicns and the Converse also expressed the opin- accorded at the dinner. guests were treated by the sight of ion that it was a comparatively Initiation wiLL begin at 6:00 p. m. waiters who had been hastily dry week-end. and the dinner at 6:30. The chapter pressed into service running about And now that otir 275 fair will welcome any of its members at Vlith vihite service jackets thrown guests have departed for their re- the meeting. Those expecting to at- <Jn over tail coats; even Profes- spective schQols and homes and tend are requested to notify the sor Charles T. Male was put to Isham Jones is safely baclr in New secretary, Morton C. Stewmt, work in the ldtchen. York, the college is beginning to at Bailey Hall, before tonight, Hamburgers, scrambled eggs catch up on its sleep. : ~

Two THE OONGORDIENSIS, TUESlJAY, MAY 5, 1936 AN EXPENSIVE GUST OF WIND ~----------------------; \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FOUNDED 1877 The balance of the match rested oa the next shot. As BiH drew his racket hack t0 kill a high lob, a sudden gnst of wind envel- oped him in a cloud of dust. The point and match was lost on the one shot. Let the Grecian Scream ~ MUS!IC ·~ ~ (Continued from Page U ' -·---------------------~ was neither one of hyper-intcllec- I feel like I hadn't got home for him ... And they say mit,acles tual music, nor one of vulgar street from Prom yet. Lemme see, where don't happen today· · · music. Miss Ten toni took a rniddle was I Saturday? Darned i.f I know, . * * *, , . course and in this way divulgell the but what's the difference, I had a · I ;:;aw 1 ecently a tJUck fr.om the versatility of her· talents and the 1935 Member 'I936 f::\ssocialed CoUe6iale Press Distributor of Colle5iate Dieest - !:lule aud exc!u::;ive ualiuual adverti::;in~; rE::l.l:Jl'e::it:ULULI vc::; NA'l'IUNAI. AUVl•;ttT!!:lli'Ou l:il~HVICU:, luo. 4:!U ~\lm.Ji~ull A\cllll~ New Yurl< CilY This little drama has, no doubt, happened: here on our courts, or, at least, we must acknowledge, it could easily happen. The condition of the tennis comts has detet·ior- ated considerably in the past two years to the degl'ee that one group in front of Bailey Hall has become almost denuded of its $1,5()0 g ood time and I'm stil'l healthy. ~atlona'l Casket ~ompany parked. beauty of her voice. m front of the offices of one of our· Thank goodness the open season on prominent State Street doctors. ~n the firs~ three of hei\ groups, Concordy columnists will soon be This looks very bad if you ask me. M1ss Tentom gave evidence of un over and my splash-in-the-can ca- · * * '* immense, glorious voice, one which reer will be ended. Ah me-if I I have here a card declat'ing that· has mastered the fundamentals .of were only an A. B. now, I could \Antoine St. Hilaire dealer In Coal singing. Her brca thing, phrasing, philosophize or soliloquize ot oth- and Wood,\ also 'does \General and diction we·re faultless. She erwise squelchyouguys, but I ain't 'Trucki:n.\ Vet·saUie sort of chap, placed each note just where it be- and so I cain't ~Got poetry in my eh what? : l<mged and allowed it to linger for soul today, it's so booful outside.) * * * a minute rike the gol<len note O·f a Ted Wilmot, who is a cheesy-; bell and then vanish into the at- minded guy anyway, works at the' mosphere. Her pitch was t1•ue and cheese counter in the Schenectady • the tones warm. ful·l,. and ruond. So Public Market. With all that Gor- that whether she sang·the intensely ganzola armmd <rumor has it that~ dramatic music of Handel's Largo he actually eats the stuff) no won- or the tender poignant melodies of der his friends have been a.voiding Gabriel Faure her message was one him lately. And to think that I put which moved the audience. * * * Chlcugo - Uuol on - l:lU.u l<'·tunci>dLO • J,u:o A ugele::; l'ulLlUIIU • l:l<m:llle clay surface. And its COlilnterpart across · Random notes from Prom: Ed from the Idol only half ready needs more Bastedo immaculately togged in 'i'he official newspaiHJr of the s~uuen~~ of Unioll Culle~e. l'ublbheu Tue::Hla.Y~ ami l•\liuuy::; Llu ougltuul the college year, except uunng Christma:; ant! SJH\iug rtce::;~es. them there tails ... Honest James attention than the present attendants C8'll Estrich looldng very sweet in those o·ive it , Summer tux ... Ed Guillot beefing --------- ----- l'ulilicaliun Office, '!'he Ga:l.ette Pte~:;. :l3-l Stale 8t., l:ic!Jencctatly, N. Y., 'l'elejlhoue 4-4141 Euleteu at tlHl ~chcnecluuy Posl Office u:; f:leeontl Ua::;:; Alai! Me~lle_•_• __ f:lu!J,;:;-;ipliun IH\ice l'ive ccuts u. copy; $J.UU a yecu; deliVeJcu auywllc1 e iu Lbe Utllle'!__::;t~~e::;. .Editul~llt~om::;, ~illimau llall, Union College Campus. Telephone, 8cl!eueelud~, 4-013_3_. __ _ Senior Board Norman R. Stewart ........... Editor-in-Chief t '11! l 1 :::il Ludge -·l--ti5!!7 S. Ralph Cohen .............. Managing Editor IG s1. s. ti. c.-1-1173 Fenton A. Gage .................. News Editor llelt.t L!>~lluu lluusc-1-1~~2 Milton D. Bedell ...............•. Sports Editor llella Cpslluu Jluuse-~-~~~~ Daniel B. Wohl., ........ Circulation Manager Kappa :-<u lluu::;e-4-7331 RobeJ:t 0. Nelson ........... Business Manager Eu.J>lJ'-' Alphu Luug..,-4 ·hl~~ Junior Bmu·d ASSOCIATE Euwa1d Barry EDITORS Juliu.; Bundgus Robert Ferguson Hyman Enzer Henry Hartmann Melvin Muroff \\'illaru Dean Hobert Doig Carl Trahman --- ~--- . :::iophomot·e Boa.t:d Assistant Editors ltL Depp, F. Hequembomg, E. Houghtaling, P. Hamphrcy, F. Saidel, D. Taft, R. Walter, R. Morgan, D. Miller, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Sherman, J. Smith Issue \Editort-> llyrmm Enzer Carl Tmh man Julius Bundgus Tuesday, May 5, 1936 THE COMMONS, LONG MA. Y SHE STAND A mo:::;i di:::;iul'bing p!'oulem, the responsi- IJilily uf which l'ests in the main with the ~tudents, conft·onts the ~td ministration at p1·esent. To wit it involves the use of one of the most popularly demanded establish- ments, the new commons, which to date has been \.Voefully uninhabited. The fact is that the commons is operating- at a loss and only by drastic steps to increase the number of diners can it continue its existence. We cannot expect the college to maintain a white l'let)hant fol' om· benefit. Not only is the cost prohioitive, !Jut also this condition shows an unappreciative considemtion of the donors. T.here can be no real reason, other than indifference, which prompts the numerous con1muting ::;tudents from eating- there. The prices, compared with those of local res- tauranters, are favorable, the quality of food is uni furmly excellent, and the environment, incomparable with any dining quarters in this vicinity, is most attractive. We must break the habit, formed l>y necessity, of mn ning down town fm a bite to eat so that this memorial to the forgotten men of Union, the re:sidents of the dormito1·ies, can be per- petuated. :\Iany organizations, clubs, fratemities, faculty members, and othe-rs can by frequent visits iake the commons out of the \red.\ Visiting athletic teams can also be entel·- 1.ained at dinner there, rather than send them to the fraternity houses or to a hotel. Concerted effort from the students, faculty, adm.inistration, to wit the whole college, to frequent the commons and to publicize it as much as possible may prove the solution of the problem. <> • because the m·chestra didn't come It 1 t t l ·1 1 t d . t in full dress ... \What do they think seems a s 1an1e o · 1e \:11 10 e s U en . this dump is, anyhow, a joint? ... body that after the COlleo·e has spent SO. Isham Jones, the crook, thief, and · d' . · ~ 1 . . plunderer, walking ol!t with my much money bud mg eight C ay com is, .. Pencil after signing my girl's pro- which have been characte!'ized as amuno· the gram ... Jack Porter didn't seem to . \\ · know the band was there and it's best Ill New York state, they should be ~rt- a wonder to us that he kept mov- lowed to deteriorate in this fashion. Accol'd- ing. Eyes c:Iosed, lip-to-cheeking. · · Henry Re1tfort please note-the ing- to our best information it is only a nlat-. above was your pencil. .. Dick Ken- ter of more care bein!! ~riven them, and it is nedy slaying one of those \Oh-you- ~ ~ . poor-boy\ women with that nifty certainly most distressing to realize that the scar of his ... Meeting one of the f · 1 d Profs there and losing all sense of beautiful courts o wluc 1 we were so l)l'OU inferiority complex when I see how have blown away into oblivion. he looks in a tl!J( ••. At least two couples had original ideas of how the Junior Promenade should be run off. .. Hale House seemed to be in good condition ex:cept for a cer- tain Junior who thought he would be more comfortable on the floor ... Chet Darrow complete with Teddy Bear haircut ... S. R. C. lusciously attired in a turn-down collar ... One Senior came with a camera and the fixin's, prepared to launch himself on a career of high-class blackmail. .. \Ann's a nice girl\ ... Bill Ketz brought that pipe to the festivities ... Ed Guillot got up to the girl's house on time- a couple of minutes ahead, in fact-and found both taxi und gill waiting Therefore, we recommend that the admin- istl'ation, rathet· than see the winds ulovv away the several thousand dollars, already spent on 1·esurfacing the com·ts, turn its at- tention to ~tltel'ing this condition. At least three inches of clay top dressing i~ needed on one group of coul'ts and calciurn chloride ::;hould be ::;pread over all of the1n. The courts should not be played on dming the morning, ~lll which time ghould be given ove1· to the attendants for watering sweeJ>- ing, rolling, and lining them. There m·e enough students interested h1 tennis at Union to warrant an excellell t standard of maintenance of the equipment. .And, too, perhaps in the future we mig-ht l>e fortunate enough to have the New Y <Jd< State Tennis Intel'collegiate matches played on om· courts us we did seveml years ago. ENDS AND MEANS Why do you act the way you do? Ho\N many of your daily actions are executed a.s part of an orderly and planned program, ho~ many can you explain afterward, and ho~ many are devoted to the passing of time ? When relax.ed in a semi-unconscious mo().d characteristic of the latter behavior, let yoar thoughts turn sometime to a self-analysis and decide whether or not you are pleasiltg yourself. If you are satisfied you a~e an ex- ceptional person. Too many people lack fore- sight to live in such a way that they ap- proach their own ideals. A g-reat many exist who fail even to set Ul> ideals. It is this type which is really pitiful. Now Showing II t====-:~ At present in Proctor's runs the saga of one \Small Town Girl,\ Kay Brannan, or as thousands of little shop girls know her, Janet Gaynor. We only went because we had a pass. Miss Gaynor who has nothing but a lack of stature that makes one soi\IY for her, is cast as usual as a Cinderella in the smilin' thru role. With her plays Robert Taylor, who makes the best of an impossible part and sounds very much like Uncle Don who reads bedtime stor- ies over station WOR. James Stu- art, if that's his name, does a very nice job, and the first part of the picture which exhibits the home life of the Brannans, is slightly redeem~ ing. But on the whole, thumbs down. However, if you must, by all means go to see Edward Everett in \His Master's Voice.\ He is one of our standbys, and like the great American ideals, has never failed us once. In fact. he is as good as ever in a less henpecked role than before. Whereupon we come to the sub- ject labelled \The Tragical Case of the Girl They Couldn't Make Beau- tiful,\ or \What Hollywood Did to Peggy Conklin.\ Unlike the titles of vodvil sketches, this one can be taken literaly. Miss Conklin evi- dently didn't prove a ve1y good sub- ject for the makeup experts, and she has been forced to hide her dramatic light under the bushel labelled \program pictures, good for family groups.\ <At this point in the discussion your critic, who was· substituting for another critic who was ill, was forced to leave for the theatre so you now have the second assistant substitute critic carrying on. His ideas on Miss Ccmklin are much the same as .those of the first assistant substitute critk.) We had the good fortune to see Miss Conklin in \The Petrified For- est\ last spring in New York. The star of the play was Leslie Howard and one must admit that Leslie is, to say the least, a competent and very well-liked actor. We are a great admirer of his and came to the theatre all prepared to sit back and admire. But to our surprise it was not Mr. Howard but his lead- ing lady who caused us to applaud. Peggy Conklin was, to put it mildly again, marvelous. Winsome, charm- ing, sincere, she created a lasting impression in our mind. it down to being B. 0.! Jl!st a good- Some sceptics cx:pressed theil• hearted credulous guy-that's me. doubts as to· whether or not Miss * * * 'Tehtoni could gta'S]l the intrica~ies Quote from a member of the .fac- of operatic music. They wondered ulty: \Of all the scavengers that whether so young and inexperi- God ever created, these females enced a singer could' reach the emo- that infest the campus on Prom tiona! depth::; of \Un Bel Di Ved- night are the worst.\ You guess remo.\ Miss Tentoni settlecl all what member. doubts. While she has not arna:::;sed * * * My cousin Emma thinks an ar- the wealth of experience which arc cadian is a woman who is always the .properties of other singers, she staring in department-store win- rendered a wholy sympathetic and dows. passionate singing of this music. \Spring has broken throl!gh at Her vocal equipment was embel· last,\ as my uncle said when he sat lished by a feeling .for the relation- on something sharp in a parlor easy ship of the music to the tragic text chair. and this feeling touched off the \No one knows for a fact who in- technique with something of a sigh vented golf traps and bunkers,\ -a sigh not weak and sentimental, says a friend. This is marvelous but of determination and futility news for the man who invented golf rather ominous of the impending traps and bunkers. tragedy which comes to Madame * • • Butterfly. The h·ouble with making money The tension of the heat and the at home in your spare time is }lass- strain which invariably followed il ing it when you've finished. began to show in the last g1·oup. • • • Miss Tentoni, in an effo1t to reduce A well-known millionaire recently her voice, became worn by the ex- spent some seven hundred thousand e1·tion and he 1 · pitch faltered. She dollars in the construction of a became flat and the beauty of the home. Faith and there's the House early part of the evening changed that Jack built, what I mean! into second-rate singing. Neverthe- * * * less, this \vas no conservatohe ex~ Some day when someone's in amination and all things con::;idei· your light you're gonna be surprised ed, Miss Tentoni made a wonderful to find that his old man r·eally was showing to the audience. Her glur· a .glass-blower. Then what'll you ious voice, her self-assurance, her do? * • • intelligence and sound muslciaru:;hip True to form: The lawyer bridge could not be denied, even though dub who always plays his .trumpet her last group of songs failed to times when his partner's out. match accepted aesthetic stand· * * * ards. Those who heaJ:d the concert Our Modern Version: felt that it was worth sitting in the Bob, Bob, Mr. Langer's son, hot, overcrowded hall to hear the Stole a march and away he run. recital. You can rest in comfort in your Miss Alice Taylor played syrnpa- silks and satin, thetic accompaniments and a group But doggoned if next year I don't of two selections, one by Sibelius take some Latin. and one by Ma.cDoweil. * * * Po me Pip(\ Dreams Though skies may not be always sunny, This column, at least, is always funny. * * * And so too bedraggled to go on, -Prom rather wilted me. G. Ship The success of this concert indi- cates that more chamber music anti informal concerts should be held on the campus, particularly in Hale House, for while the accoustics may not match the acc<JUstics of the New York City ·Town Hall, the at- mosphere is the quiet, reser·ved at- mosphere appropriate for- charn)}et· music. by and sav~~ Railway Express can handle laundry p ~o packages for you very easily and c:L-£J0se economically. Simply notifythe folks /lj,JY/JA./YO that you are shipping your laundry {_,-)~,/ ~ by Railway Express and ask them to return it the same way, If you wish, you can ship \collect.\ It saves time and detail, and loose change. What everyone needs is a philosophy of life. If they have rationally thought out what they intend to do, if they are proceeding to- ward an end, their actions cannot be said to be unjustified, even if their particular act breaks all social traditions. Realizing- that many citizens act on the spur of the moment, with the emotions rather. than the intellect as the source, the state has made the pen- alty for premeditated murder much more severe than for unplanned homicide. This law is very strange, for it places a premium on the weaker side of human nature, and ex- cuses the individual who has not even a def- inite purpose for his act. Laws governing human behavior are nothing more tha:.n man-made rules, If an individual lives ac- cording to his own set of rules, his associates are justified in ostracizing him for altt.i- social acts, but no one can criticize him. As in the law, so all men's actions should be considered according- to the ends whieh they have in view. No one is so right that he can justifiably criticize another. He may <lis- agree, but he should not censor. In the con- tinuous struggle for individualism, more em- phasis should be placed on the end, less on the mearu~. But photographed by a motion picture camera Peggy is not ravish- ingly beautiful. She merely looks · like an average woman. Hollywood evidently works on the assumption that all heroines must be ravishing- ly beautiful. It also stands in awe of the legitimate stage. On the basis of Peggy's success there the motion picture moguls brought her to the cinema city. They then found she did not photograph well and hence could not be used in impor- tant roles. Hence we find her Railway Express is fast and depend- able and can be relied upon to get your laundry back as fresh and in as good condition as when it left home. So think the idea over and telephone Railway Express. Our motor truck will pick up the package at your door at no extra charge. For Service or Information Telephone Cor. Wall & Liberty Sts. \Phone 4-5612 Depot Office: N. Y. C. Station 'Phone 4-8512 Schenectady, N. Y. RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY INC. NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE (Continued c:>n Page 4) Fr~ Nin~ Ag~ First hl The fre nreet Drl' at 4:30 o third anc ficult gar d ule. l t ' games tc coming GJ:een 1'11, High Scb Saturday Draper aggrega:ti Gtanville lings are itism fo1 noon. lt'c seems t pitcher, ville boy: ::;hown 1. ptacticc. Sebast, Christian and W. combine( team wt GildS\ in F'or U ence will p~rform\ baclt ·All the fling the 1·ece cotnpose< zon and Huickle, outskilt:: t.u be tb can. be <J who con gtve11 th outs. Ycster with in varsity, out in a Thursda nered tl two anc Con troy turned i that he Saturda· from tc case, w material The a infield : change, ~hifting places tion, pr< Meyers. .300, an tet for begin v end is 1 has gat A.Inazor to his plenty sloppy be the showin~ the Jlra Jar fiel• ResuH Endico· Smith, Saiewit Bowie, Wohl, Annese Halper 291) Strong Palma I 220) Liffito· 212,: Kruesi 285) A Kessle Geer, J Green, Smith, 3) Annes 6) Em Endic• H. Sm Wohl, H. Du Byrne Bloorx: DennE 265, Annef 275) Murol 280) Cf. The for UPP• opet bart co:

the the an s .of sing, She be- for o.f a at- and So of one their Miss a des emo- Ved- all arc she and text the sigh dame the il ex- She the ex- ::;idei- glor- her ru:;hip ed to the the beiius indi- c ant! on Hale may f the at- at- THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, 1\IAY 5,-1936 Three .Frosh Nine Meets Draper; Golfers Begin Trio of Matches N 8 E ect Ha d B ttl Sf k D f t d - I' Second Win Sc~ued In e . xp s .. ' ' r ' . : a ' e ·B .. lComen . e1·6eat e 7 .I INTRAMURAL$ By union Trackmen . A . gainst Exp. erienced Team . Y · range · · 0 '~===~ Tennis Onu-t !Rules 1. All players MUST wear TEN- NIS SI-IOE::S with so.ft pli- able soles. I Basketball and other types of shoe::; are not acceptable. First of Three :Battles In Space of One Weel{ ~·------------------------------- Golf Tean Clashes With Colga.!ttTaday Smith Tops Garnet Scoring·; Thiel and Portei' Tally .Five for Syrac:use Junior Prom seemed to be too ·much for the Garnet stickmen Saturday a>fternoon as they were The f.reshman basebaH team will Three C'onsc«!ut.h.-e Matches swamped by a superior Syracuse meet Drapel' High this afternoon For Gante-t: iflamilton, ten, 16-7. Jack Smith, Junior at- at 4:30 on Alexander Field in the tack man, again showed his scar- third and p~obably the most dlf- MiddlebU'l'Y Carded ing prowess by throwing four ficult game of th.e fivecgame sche- goals past the Orange goalie. ·dul'e. It w-ill be t.he HI'~t of th1 1 ce --- Ken Mac·Murray gave the Dutch- games to be .played within thi:J The t'nion go! f t·eanl will have a· men a fine sta;rt by taking a pass cOining wee!,, 1'01· gan1.es with busy three days th.is week as they from Vandecar and scoring the Gt:een 1\H. Jr. College and Albany encoun<er Colga..te, 'Hamilton, and first goal. After this very brief High School follow on the coming Middlebury today, tomorrow, and outburst the Salt City aggregation Saturday a;nd T·~esday. Thursday, re.spect:lvely. After a piled up a 5-1 lead in the fkst Draper reputedly !las a strong' most humiliating, 'd-efeat at the quarter. In the second period, the aggrega:lion in view of its win ovet hands of Harnii ton, the Garnet is •Garnet attack was kept tied up by GianvHle last we-eit, and the year- determined to ·Over-co:me the green- the Orange defense led by Ed lings are not conceded any favor- n~ss of the first matcnand emulate Jontos, ex-Syracuse football star it ism fat· the contest this after- >:Jomewhat its pe rft=ct 1ecord of last ·and co-captain of the lacrosse noon. l>'or Dt aper, \Voody Hamil sea.scm. Today'~ meet IV'ith the Ma- squad. seems to be the outstanding roon will take .p:'l.ac~ at that institu- Rain Helps Gamet pitcher, having limitl'd the Gnm- tion and the f<llrowing men wm· The second .period was played in ville boys to tew- hit>, and having take the trip: Phil Little, Johnny a driving rainstorm which seemed shown up exce}ltionaliy well 1n Emans, Monroe Froelich, Bob Lan- to revive the Dutchmen, but the PI'actice. Hi>:1 tea:nunales are \Perry ger. Ken B1:own,. \S<Jzz\ Waldron, attack couldn't piet·ce the visitors' Sebast, LeGere, San tore, Busio, Ralph Thatcher, ·A.. my Gordon, and defense which has teen strength- Christianson, Gr·osso, Witherwax, Bob Clark. Colgate has also lost ened by several football men who and W. Hamil, all of w·hom have one meet this season together with: nad taken up lacrosse after spring combined to forrrl a dangerous the loss of two r:nen from last year's football practice. team which has bested the \sec- golfers, and a close and. exciting' Rain still continued to fall in onds\ in sever a:i pr-actice tilts. match may be anticipated. deluges as the second half stat·ted, Lineup Unch11.nged Wednesday's match with Ham-: but the Garnet revived by the 1·est, F'or the Gam€t, Coach Lawer- ilton will be a ,great ·deal diffe·rent went into r.jgh gear. Jack Smith ence will use the same team which tnan last weelc:'s matches as the slipped one past Eldred, the 01- p~rfot·med so capably in setting Dutchmen win be· out for revenge ange .goalie, after a minute of play. back ·Albany. Colby Jones will do for their defeat at the hands of the Dick Sargis nullified this count a the flinging with Dave Y.un!ch o.n Buff and Blue. 011<. Thursday, when iew seconds later by his first goal the 1 ·eceiving end. The rnf1eid ts the Stanleyites neet the Middle- of the day for the Saltine War- c01nposed of My-ers, Controy, Ama- bury \Sarazem'' they will encoun- riot':>. Art Lawerence, freshman zon und Thomas, and Lubansky, tet· stiff oppo.oitil.or1 us the Blue and star of last year's team, subbing Hoicklc and .Miller will patrol thr White have a :Strong aggregation. for MacMurray then bought the outskilts. This team has proven boasting of two vict<Hies over Bow- ::;core to 8-3 by his goal. Thiel lu be the best combination which Join and Nassa-u Collegiate Center. again passed Barford, who inci- can be achieved from the ten men So far, Johnny Err!ll.ns and Ken dently played a good game for the who comprise tbc :!quad, ant! l:as Bt·own have loolted good in actual Dutchmen but was given poor sup- gWen the vmsity son1e :;tiff work- competition with .:Phil Little show- port by his defensemen all after- outs mg up well in pr-actice. Coach noon, and gave the Syracusans a Y~>:Jtel'day, with V.'aters worl,ing ::>tanley looks for a t>evival of the 9-3 lead. with incompara..ble case for the winning ways of last year's squad The Garnet, lead by two goals varsity, the yearlings wet·e shut- and the tearn promises to give a by Jack Smith, came the closest uut in a five-inning game, but on fighting accounlt o:f ·itself, especially to the Orange in the next five Thursday before ptorn, they ?a~·- the matches wlt:h Hamilton and minutes, that they ever were after nered three hit:S to the vars1ty s Middlebury which will be played on MacMurray's opening goal. The two and ltept matters· even. Bob familiar grou.nd.s. Union attack man slipped by his Controy heaved for the frosh, and a guard twice to push the two coun- turned in such a fine perfot·mance C h e::4t U · tel's into the net and reduce the that he may pitch the game. on J. () en '~ l:lllS 3S n10n Orange lead to 9-5. saturday, should Jones b~ ured Bows to \iViUiarns Team Orange Excel from today's g.arr1e, and, 111 any In the final period, the Salt City case, will maite excellent reserve. Joe Cohen. o utwltted his Purple boys had everything their own way material. opponent to th~ t.une of 6-4, 6-3 as as they scored six times to Un- SWft Ln :Ba.ttlng his team mutes fEll before the ion's twice. Porter and 'l'hiel, the The addition of Thomas to the rackets of a welliJalanced Williams game's high scorers with five infield seems to be an important tennis team on tne vidors' courts goals apiece to theii\ credit, each change, equally important as ~he Friday. Salad produced the only scored twice in this period agamst lntramm·al Tl'ack Meet The intramural tt ack m£>et will take place nex:t Monday and Tues- day afternoons on Alexander l<'ield. --·-- o-~- . - Standing·s Throug·h May 1st. Group Phi Delta Theta .......... . Phi Sigma Delta .......... . Psi Upsilon ............. - .. Sigma Chi .............. - .. Chi Psi ................... . Neutrals .................. . Sigma Phi .............. - .. Delta Phi ............... - .. Beta Theta Pi ............ . Alpha Phi Delta ......... .. Kappa Nu ................ . Alpha Delta Phi .......... . Phi Gamma Delta ........ . Delta Upsilon ............. . North College ............. . Theta Nu Epsilon ......... . Kappa Sigma ............. . South College ............. . Kappa Alpha ............. . Phi Sigma Kappa ......... . Theta Delta Chi .......... . Lambda Chi Alpha ........ . Delta Chi ................. . ---o----- Points 793.677 766.210 739.213 729.558 729.155 665.538 663.871 633.435 604.932 572.699 560.611 538.321 531.483 528.430 511.479 455.108 413.327 331.474 286.902 255.975 218.747 181.878 131.131 Union, C()Tnell to Debat~ Football Question May 11 The Union Co1Iege debating team will argue with Cornell. Universi!Y on the subject of profess10nallsm m college football over WG Y next Monday morning at 11 o'clock in the final radio intercollegiate de- bate sponsored by the local station and the college. The subject of the debate will be: Re3olved that colleges and univer- sities should openly adopt p1 ofes- sionalism in football. Cornell will uphold the affirmative side of ~he argument and Union the negative. Union debaters will be Burns M. Barford and Carl E. Olson. Union's varsity football and bas- ketball coach, Nelson W. Nitchman, will be the de bate chairman. Judges, who will reach their de~i­ sion after hearing the argument via radio, will be selected frorr1 leading sports authorities in the WGY radio m·ea. GENERAL OFFICE EQUIPMENT CO. shifting in the batting oi·der whtc~ other V'ictory In tl!e 7·2 defeat. the tiring Garnet defense. places Thomas in clean-up posi- A strong ba;.ck.hand, deceptively Smith is now leading the scor- tion preceded by Jones, Miller and concealed, pro-ved to be Cohen's ing for the season with 16 points, Meyers_ All fou~:· are batting abov~ spear head ~f ~:t.ttaclc against Weller or nearly a third of the total .300 and form a dangerous quai- as the Purpillc '!>-laye1· unwittingly points scored. Hal Vandecar, who tet' for any opposing pitcher t? drove the ball int.o Joe's chief wea- was close behind up to Saturday's begin work on. However, the ~ail pon. game, went scoreless and is n?w end is batting well to?, for Yumch The numbet• one singles match tied with Captain Bergrr1an w1th has aathered some ~oild blows, and provided the r:nost sparkling eKhi- 8 apiece. 140 Jay St. Phone 4-9677 Arna';;on has a cou1>le of doubles bition of tennis an.d at times the The lineup and summary: to his credit. The frosh have worst when ·ICingm.an .of Williams Syracuse (16) Union (7) plenty of hitting power, but the eked out a hi!::.rd won match from Eldred G Barford sloppy wor'k in the field se.ems to Fritz Hawley, At times it seemed Jontos P Potts be the chief reason for their poor that Hawley bacL tnastered his op- Tallmadge SP Liffiton showings. Perhaps the move from ponent's un.orlthO>d~:x .style only to Fletcher FD V. Smith the practice diamond to U;e re_gu- lapse into a succession of errors Perlstein SD Vandecar Jar field will remedy the SituatiOn. either at tl<e net o:r while running Quinn C Fraser -----o up to it to retdeve one of King- Sargis SA Templeton Results of Bt~.seba.ll Field Meet man's drop s:hot.s. H:awley's main Porter FA J. Smith Base Running Endicott, Sigma Chi ... · ....... 14.3 Smith, H., Beta Theta PI • · · · · 14. 4 Saiewltz, Phi Sigma Delta · ·- · 1~­ Bowie, Sigma Phi . · • · · - · · · · · · · 10 · 1 Wahl, Kappa Nu · · • · · • · · · · · · · 15 · 3 Annese, South C~llege · .. · · · · · l5. 3 Batting fo-r Distance Halpern, Kap~a Nu, 880 (262, 327, 291) Strong Chi Psi, 874 (291, 284, 299) Palmatier, Del-ta Phi, 796 (298, 278, 220) Liffiton, Phi Delta Theta, 735 (248, 212, 275) Kruesi, Sigma.. Phi, 725 (265, 275, trouble was a..n inability to return Thiel OH Bergman a soft ball eit :her at volly ot' from Meier IH MacMurray the baseline. Agai:n his overhead Scoring: Meier (2), Thiel ~5), smash worked bca..utifully. On set Porter• <51, Sargis <2), S~alhsh, point he ::;laslted bach:: a high, deep and Perlstein. Union-J. Smith <41, lob for a perf.ect ,placement. Lawrence, Bergman, and Mac- The doubles combinations were Murray. the weakest de!>'artments which is Substitutions: Syracuse-Hague, substantiated iby the number of Oliver, Sheehan, Shallish, Bla~on, sets won, none, aLn<i the gan1es won, Nolan, Morey, Sugarman, Levme, fifteen in three matt!hes. and Morgan. Union-Reynolds, Robinson, Swart, Lawerence, Ken- The sumnaur : Singles-Eingrna_n (W) defeated nedy, and Knox. Hawley (UJ, 8-6,. •1-6, 6-1; Cohe~ MILK CREAM I , Drafting Supplies - Paper Pencils - Fountain Pens TYPEWRITERS New Repaired Used - Rented • THE NEW DENTISTRY A Ilhnse ot Preventive 1\ledlrlne College Men find in It unusual opf>Ol'tunities fm• a career HARVARD UNIVERSITY DENTA.L SCHOOL A competent course of tlTepar- o.tion for the dental profession. A \Class A\ School. \Vrite for catalogue. Leltoy JU, s. 1\linor, D. lii. D., l\1, D., Denn Dept. 27, 188 Longwood Ave., Bostm~o 1\Iass. BUTTER EGGS 285) Accnl'acy 'Throws 175 Feet Kessler Kappa. Nu, 11 ft. < 7 · 1. 3 ) Geer, Beta Theta_ Pi, 17 ft. <15, 1, 1) Green Sigma Cht, 21 ft- t3, 9, 9) Smith: Beta. 'l'heta PI, 2Z ft. (9, 10, <U) defeated Well~r (W), 6-4, 6-3, Phipps (Wl de1:ea.ted MeGee CUl, 6-3, 6-2; JetLniogs (W) defeaterd Ort011 ( Ul, 6-2, ·G-3; Gaskell <\') defeated Fine:h (.lJ), 6-3, 6-3; Salad <U) defeated J3l':alne <Wl, 6-4, 6:3· Doubles--Plhipps and Jennmgs tWJ defeatedl McGee and Hawley <U), 6-1, 6-4; Kiing-man and Weller <WJ defeated :Finch and Hallen- beck (U), 6-1. 6-'0, Ca.sltell and Wel- ler (Wl defeEII.ted Cohen. and Ba:xter \ I \ \ Cloverland Creamery A~~ese, South College, 23 ft. .(15, 2, 6 1 1 mting and RulllliiJ.g to First Endicott, SigiDa Chi · • ·.·- · ·- · · · 3 · 7 H Smith Beta 'I'heta PI · · · • · · · 3.8 Wohl, K:{ppa Diu .. ·.\ - .. : .. · \ · 3 · 8 H. Duchscherer, Pht -gpstlon .. 3.9 Thr1nvlng for Dtstance Byrne Chi Psi, 873 (276, 285, 312> :BlooW: Delta Phi, 865 (280, 290, 295) Denneit. Alph.a Delta Phi, 848 (276, 265, 307) .Annese, SouUJ. College, 830 (265, 290; M~~~ff, KapP'a Nu, 820 (270, 270, 280) CHARLES' Fo~~·Iy The Official Union College Barber for the past 25 years. Aslt any u er classrnen, tl!ey lmow. 11 o8~rators. Scb.ei 1 ectady's greatest barber. con, Sl'A'l':E A.Nll BROADWAY (U), 6-3, 8-6. - The Colgate Eellllis team runves here to tnee;t the Garnet tomor- row. In its· C.()nt:lngent it boasts of no outstandiEig player unless Gor·- don Wood, t.etnpermental nutnber one star, ruay be cla~sed as one. George Stro~:bel, c:aptam ,and num- ber one of Last year s squad, smothered h:.illl- wltnout difficulty in straight set.s a :year ago. The Red Raiders ai-e coacl1ed by Coac~ Perrine Rooehaieilo:w, Aydelotte s former char:npiorL indoor doubles pal'tner. BELLINGER PAINT CO. AR'rliiJI.t. 'I':EIGG, Prop; rab:tts,Olle, Varnisbes Glass, S:ru:s!Jes am.d Wall F\per 126 BE()ADWAY \ \ \ PHONE 2·4265 ICE CREAM COTTAGE CHEESE CLARK WITBECK CO. 416-418 STATE ST. MAZDA LAMPS FLOOR WAX GARDEN TOOLS LAWN ROLLERS GRASS SEED and FERTILIZER PHONE 4-4161 CaJ)tain Burton Leads J\1a.te:s With Three I<'irst Places :By HYMAN A. ENZE:R Saturday, !\'lay 2.-- For the sec- ond year in succession the Union tt·ack team defeated Rochester's field and track squad, but not be- fore the Yeliowjackcts had sev-. eretl the string of 48 consecutive first place>:J which the Garnet bad won since they had encountered the Rivermen last year. Union won 82 to 44 here today. Burton Jiigh Scorer With Captain Emery Burton taking high honors for th€ day with his three firsts in the jun!p- ing events, and sever·al spectaculfl:r races being staged for the bmefi,t of the nun1erous ptom guests who filled the stands, the meet 'Was one of the most interesting seen on the Union field in a long time. If there was any man on the track who deserved p1aise for hi>:1 performances it was Jim Rassage of Roel:ester, who in the 100 and the 220 edged out both Bob Glen and Sherman Hil'st, Union stars, .vith superlative running, and then wok a \<!1 y close second to :Emery 3m ton in the broadjump. Dash Run Twice It was in the lCO yard dash that some difficulties occurred . ..At the first ctack of the gun ever:; :rnan darted off in :Jeemingly exemplary or uer, but on the completion of the race, won by Johnnie Glen;. the tunnet·s were recalled for a new stat t. On the second try the gun was jumped again, and the boys lined up for the third atte:rnpt. This time everything went off in fine order for Rochester-as :Ba.s· sage streaked his way dovvn the stretch for a victory in 1().2 sec- onds with Glen and Hirst follow- ing on his heels. Then in the 440 yard dash, 'With Wally Hughes setting the pac€ as he shot from the starting point, <Continuer on Page 41 JAMES E. DAY, Optiaian Presc1·iptions Filled or Duplicated General Repair Work (iOt Union St., Cor. Barrett St. 3 Bloelts Below College Gate l'IIO.S E 2-3464 THE ACME BARBER SHOP Welcomes All Union College Students 2. Students ::and Faculty only shall be pe:rmitled the use of the courts. 3. Doubles should be played whenever.p-ossible ~o as to in- sure use .oF the courts to the maximunti:'1Unlbel' of playerR 4. If person=:> ate waiting to play, both singles and dou- bles rna trh 'i.'S are to be per- mitted to Finish their set be- .fore vacatfong. In the event that the set goes to deuce play shall :stop at onc-e. 5. The tennis courts will close on week-da:cys at G:OO P. M. 6. Play on S un<iay ~hall be Je- stricted to tl~e h()ur·s of 1 P. M. to 5:30 P. M., and a.ll player·s rnu st be dt ess<>t! in a CLEAN \\~1-li!TE COSTUMK 7. Workmen ~nl'agPd in re- patnng 0or marking the courts an to be pet'mittetl to complete their task befm·e play can s-ta1·t. 8. The caret.:alter shall be sole judge as to the use of the courts afte-r rainy weather. 9. Children of the Faculty memben; shall be permitted the use of the courts if any are vacanlt but NEVER to the exclusion of the two above nam:oed groups. 10. Use of th:tc indoot· eourt on the gymna .. sium flo01' will be reserved fur· the varsity squad whe:n indcmcnt weath- er ptohlbiits tr. t'it· practice outdoors. 11. Violators of the above rule~ will be denied the privilege of Utiing tbe COUit:;. I FROST !c REYNOLDS Pr:tiNTERS 430 Smitll St. Fraterliity Printing a ~pecialty Telep-h()ne 2-7871 SHAW-VVALKER OFFICE E<;::>UI PM ENT MILKSO RICH YOU CANWHIP THlECREAM PrO< duced Under Strict l-aboratory Control 509 Union St. Nearest The Campus For Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. Honor Mother With a Goocl ,Book MOTHER'S DAY, SUNDAY, NAY IOIH BOB•s BOOKStl OP 135 BROADWAY TEL. 2-5439 Home of Sche11ecfady's Finest Rental Library 1 I II I Where men are welcome. Union always THE Printing CAZETTE .. . . Engraving ~PRESS .. .. Binding J I

I, Four Hale House Scene Of Alumni Banquet Schenectady County Group Is First Outside Club to Hold Dinner in Dining Hall J.\<londay, May 4.-The Schenec- tmly County Alumni Association of Union College WRS the first organ- IZatiOn off the> eatu!)U, to hultl a dinner meeting in Hale House and it~ Dining Hall. About 50 alumni attended tonight and enthusiasti- L\ally voted to meet there again on June 1, this time having their w<ves and other womenfolk pres- ent. Mountebanks Clc.se Season Tonig·ht in Albany Church The Mountebanks :will close their 1935-36 season tonight when they will present their current produc- tion of Andre Obey's \Noah\ at the rrinity Methodist Episcopal Church Parish House in Albany, under the auspices of the Ogden Class. This will fe the fourth performance of ''Noah\ the other three being given Friday, Saturday, and Monday in the campus theatre. THE CONCORDIENSIS, ·TUESDAY, MAY 5, 1936 New ·Geology Lab Greatly Improved Nott\s Dt·eam of Enlarged Department Nearly Realized CA.IJENDAR Tonig-ht 8:00 p. m.-Eiology Club Meet- mg, Biolog-y Laboratory, Speaker, Dr. :John L. March, \Psychology and Biology.\ Gavel Club Meeting, Silliman Hall. 8:30 p. m.-Mou.ntebanks Perfor- rnance, \Noah\ by Andre Obey, Trinity M. E. Church, Lancas- ter and Lark Streets., Albany, N.Y. Wedilesday 3.00 p. m. Golf, Union vs. Ham- ilton at Schenectady. 4:00 p. m.-Tennis, Union vs. Colgate at Schenectady. 6:00 p. m.-Phi Beta Kappa <Un- ion Chapter) Initiation and Dinner, Hale House. , 7:30 p. m.-S~hubert Club Re- hearsal, Menorial Chapel. i5 Publications Board Elects New Editors (Continued from Page 1) from Albany. Active in prep school as circulation man-ager of his school publication he was candidate manager this year on the Concordi- ensis. He also assisted with the 1937 Garnet work. Muroff of New York City is a member of the junior board of the Concordiensis. A consistent Dean's Lmt man, Muroff is a member of Rappa Nu. ' Edmond Arundell resides in Buf- ,falo and is a. member of Psi Up- ;:gilen. He was on the hockey squad last winter and is a member of the Gavel Club. Hawkes of Elmira was recently elected captain of the varsity cross- N·ow SHOWING (Continued from Page 2) shoved into unimportant, program pictures. Why is not difficult to guess. It probably costs money to breal-t contracts. Edwin G. Conde, in the princi- pal add1e:o;s of the evenin&;-it lastE'd only four and a half min- tltes-said: \I think one of the fine,;t things about graduating from College is the plivilege to lteep, not a meddle::;ome, but an intelligent inte1 est in the adminis- llation of the college. As an alum- nu,; he can visit the college fre- que~tly and he can especially visit his old p10fesso1s. There he will meet not only stimulating minds but also sympathPtiC hearts.\ Although 1t was previously an- nounced that the Mountebanks would repeat \Noah\ as a part of the Commencement exe!Cises in June, the organization has decided to forego the special performance and instead Edwa1d L. Carroll's play p!'oduction course will give rerence's \Phormio\, as translated by Ferdinand Helm, '37, at this time. Tonight's performance of \Noah\ marks the end of Mr. Carroll's eighth year with the group, during which time the Mountebanks have ,;taged many types of drama includ- ing tragedy, comedy, allegmy, and fantasy. Next season he is leaving Union for a year of graduate work. Dr. Eliphalet Nott, always the most progressive of educators, realized the importance of a course in geology, well endowed in equipment. In fact he had a long and stormy argument with the rev- erend trustees about the efficacy of establishing this department in a separate building, which was to be erected where the Old Chapel now stands_ This was one occa- sion where the illustrious presi- dent lost and he was compeled to acquiesce to the trustees wishes for the erection of a chapel. Nevertheless the geology depart- ment became housed in the upper stories of the colonnade where it has since continued. Recent devel- opments and improvements through the aid of Dr. Fox and some alumni, have almost realized Nett's dream, as the hall and old student activities' office back of Old ChaJ)el became transformed into a geological museum. Adja- cent tCJ. this room is a well equip- ped minerological laboratory, painted and furnished by N. Y. A. wm•kers, in which Professor E. S. C. Smith's advanced students work. Thursday 3:00 p. m.-Golf, Union vs. Mid- dlebury at S()henectady • 8:00 p. m.-Men's Faculty Club Meeting, Tr()phy Room, Gym- nasium. , country team. In addition to cross- country Hawkes runs the two-mile on the track team. He is a member of Psi Upsilon. Stewart who comes from Buffalo is the editor-in-chief of the Concor- dlensis and is on the varsity tennis squad. He is affiliated with Chi Psi fraternity. When will Hollywood wake .to the fact that there is mme to the act- ing profession than the beauty of the actors and actresses? Even the moronic movie-goer would rather see a good actress than a poor- beautiful one. \The Petrified For- est'' was recently made into a movie. Leslie Howard was retained as the leading man but poor Peggy was n<;>t pretty enough to play op- posite him despite the fact she stole the audiences attention in the play. Bette Davis according to il.lm standards is beautiful. She got the lead. We went to see the movie. Never were we more disappointed. Most of the original play cast were in it. Leslie Howard .did an excel- lent job. But Bette Davis! Words fail us. Whatever else she did', she did not act. Her failure was as complete as Peggy's success in the same role, Now that little digres- sion is over, to our point. Peggy plays opposite Horton in \His Mas- ter's Voice\ and she does a swell job. By all means see the picture. At present she is in New York again in \Co-respondent Unknown\ doing a wonderful job. Perhaps some day Hollywood will see the Tom Hanigan, another active alumnus m :::>chenectady, pointed out that l\lay 4 was the birthday of John James Fourgere Audubon, American na tut a list famous for his \The Birds of America,\ a se- lll'S of 1,065 colored pictures of Amencan hold:;, publlbhed 1827- lll:Jti, wliich 1s puzed a:; one of the most att1active worlts of Its ]{ind in the world. Other alumni, after the formal meeting, r·ecalled that on May 4, 1929, Dr. F1ank Parker Day was inaugurated president of Union College. Dr. Day WI ites to his friends on the campus that he is Btill convalescing at his home in :'>~ova Scotia. ----o--- Trackmen Defeat Rochester, 82-44 tContmue<.l from Page 3) the thrills once mo1 e ci opped up. Until the home stretch the H.oches- tel and Union men were JH etty well bunched, v.1th the 1e:;ult that ,J uhnny .H.o~s. who usually tal'\\ tll•· lead at that pomt, \\as <lt ujJ- jJ<'Li behind. It was between Viberl Frye1 then a.nd. Ed V\uods of Ruchc:;tet, and mto the home :>tl etch tr.ey c.tme, neck to neck. Zoww~ Inch LJy .nch F1 yer gained the lead, am! at the 1111l:lh was about halt a tuut to the good. He crm>•ctl fu •I, but an anti-climax of the 1 ace came when Wood:; tripped ,illd tangled. wtth Fryer on th<' emd<'IS 101 a umquc g1 and tinale . .:-it·lthrr was hmt; and ptom- Wt•ak<'nPd Ros:; came tearing in l<ll !hill!. Summa riPs Ht~h JUill!J \\'un Ly l.lUI tun tL' I and uay tGI tie; titeven:;on \1{1 thud, ilt•tght ;:. leet 7 1nchc\. The cast of \Noah which met with enthusiastic response from campus audiences, includes William llfulvey, Arthur Firth, Robert Shreve, Helen Lornis, Marie Palmer, Edith Alexanden:;on, Douglas Stev- enson, Dul>e Fenton, and Ann quig- ley. -----0 --- Gl l\) b N t' The Whetely collection of geo- ee \. U 0 ICe logical specimens, one of the fin- est of the times, which was pur- All Glee Club members wishing a chased in 1857 by Edward C. Dele- refund for their music may turn van, a trustee of the college, and their folders in to Jim Kimball at secreted in shelves in the rooms the Chi Psi lodge at any day during ovet· the Old Chapel for many the week for 1:00 to 1 :30 p. m. i years, has been dusted off and What} • gozng on here .. . . what:r happening in these 40 houses h.'iday 3:00 p. m.-Base ball, Uni0n vs. Syracuse at Schenectady. 4:00 p. m.·-'I'ennis, Union vs. ;Rutgers at Schenectady. Graduate Council (Executive Committee) :Meeting, Graduate . Council Office. now reposes in the new museum for the rude gaze of public scru- tiny in five modern, glass cases. Many of these specimens a1·e rep- resentative species from Europe which today ca.nnot be duplicated for love of m<mey and for this reason are tieasured highly. Of these, fluorite from England and manganite from Germany are ex- amples. :,hut I'Ut \\un by Fmk tHI 42 fl'l't ~ taches; Nagu:szew::;kl d_j) :<t<'tHlll, 14 feel 1U 7 ~ mct:c.s; K1ull • U' thud, ·IV let!l l> mc:tes. l:.!lJ ~at d lngh hurdle:s V\'un by t i. Snuth \ Ul; Shield \ lJ I o;ecuntl; Ft~h•·•· • HI thn<.l; tune 16.1 sec- untl:--. -the curing and ageing of leaf tobacco, that's what's going on. luu yat d dash \\'on by Bas:;age • IU, l,I,·n \ U 1 :;ecuud; Hi tot \ L. I thud, time lU.:l second B. D1scu:; tluow-Won by Nagus- zew:,lu \ U 1 1:!5 feet 1 inch; Mall tl\ ,,t•nmd, llU feet IS'• mehes; K1ue,;i <CI tt1ild, 11 feet 1'• lllC lit•,;, :\Ill•· llm \\'on by 13u.:;tedo 1 U >; :\t\lotun til• ,,econd, KI!lht•l •Hl tlt11t.l, tunc 1 J7.5. HU y;u d. t.la,h \\'on by F1 yet tl;l, \1uud t!.J ~e<.:ond, H.uos 11..:1 tl.ll <.1, llllll' ;,1.7. l'u•e \aull \\on by Burton \UJ 12 r .. et ~ '• m<.:hes; Van Wei t \ U> UIHI t>l)PI\ tU J tled fol' bCt:OllU at 11 f<'l'l !II'\ inrhes. .! nuk tun \\'on I.Jy Hardie; <lU; Ha\lolte,; •L'J :;econd; Hewitt tUJ thi1d; tnne 10:50.1. 2:.?0 )o~IJ hlllt.iles Won by G. Hmitl, 1 Ul; HhtPlds <UJ second; ( 'ha!llbt·Jlam • 10 thii d; time 26..!. Javelm throw Won by K1ull 1111 lo3 fpet 11 tnches; Bloom tU> H't\ond ltl3 f•·£•t 3 mches; Van WP!t tlJI tlutd. HU feet 4 mches. 220 ya 1 d da~h Won by Hassage ITO: Hibt tl'l seeond; Krenlcl tHl thud· till•\ ·~29 xxo ya t d ltlll \Von by !<'nggm1y ( H 1: Hoyt tl{ 1 sPcnnd: Hantmons till third, tinlP 2 C4.4. Broad jump \Von by Burton !lJI :!1 fPt•t 3 1 1 inehes; BassagP t!O and !lit ~I I U I tit'd f01 HPC- ond at :Cl ft•Pl 1 , in<'h I) J>anton Elt-cted Pr~sident Of (~l'!'man Teachers Group Saturday, May 2. Dr. George H. Danton, hc>ad of the mode1n lan- guage dPpat tment. WuB elected president fur lht ee yea1s of the Hud\un Valley B1anch of the American A$sueiation of Teachet;; of German today at the meeting at Skidmore College. Those who represented Union College at the meeting were Dr. and Mrs. Danton, Dr. Morton C. Stewart, and Kurt von Forstmeyer. Thousands of hogsheads of mild ripe tobacco are under these roofs ... just lying here ageing and sweet~ning and mellow- ing for Chesterfield cigarettes. Like Rip Van W bzlde, they sleep-the tobaccos getting mellower a11d milder for the cigarette that Satisfies. 0 1936, L!GG.IIlT tk MYBilB TOBACCO Co. ----o--- (Continued from Page 1) pacity on the committee as has G. Elliott Hatfield. The main scenes which have been filmed in all extra-cul'ricular pur- suits, upon his entry to Union through his first days in college and his participation in the academic and athletic activities on the cam- pus. light. S. R. C. & R. H. F'. AMERICAN A 1 LAUNDRY 20% DISCOUNT The first showing of the com- pleted film, after cutting and edit- ing, will probably be at the begin- ning of the college year In Septem- ber. CASH and CARRY 1030 Barrett St. Phone 4-3166 a 1000 pound hogshead of leaf tobacco WEDNESDAY LILY PONS 9 P. u. (E.D.T.) FRIDAY DANCE PROGRAM 10 P.M. (E. D. T.) ltOSTELANETZ ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS COLU~ffiiA NETWOllK • Vol. LD Com] OfSt Ann~ Society Eng G.E. 8. Union I In C Friday, program meeting • tlon of t tion of which \1 next weE the ausp Renssela and Gel was ann A. Hall, ing, in c Follow morning, gates wi through pany anc tary lun1 Friday parallel ' tl'ips. Tt elude tl CompanJ haW!{ Cl the UnitE vliet, the at Troy, bly plan Schenect Plant. The p in the g nee ring, electrica and met Profes be chail mechani chine d< the gem post coli mann o lead a d of CollE Trainin! General lead a Trainin! Electric who tea' the Gen lead thE Problen try.\ Ar General \Mechal trical II The 1 conclud William Gene1al tory, a1 resea1cl of the Hall, G Dinn< House, Dixon l kiss, pr F. L. I ( Grit PaiJ The Townst be rep have b in the time, 1 were I worl{S shown, list of the na Mr.' formly pOOl'. good, even adorn some glance es, thE solid c result pie. P ~:~quarE

to y to the act- of the For- a op- stole pla_y. iihn the nted. were as the Mas- swell York the F'. Van Johnson 11 Avery Suney Com}>leted -~-==-==~===============~=========,_ Vol. LIX., No. G7 Complete P.rogFam Of Science Meeting Announced !Today Society for the Promoti()>n Engineering Education To Meet Here of G.E. & R.P.I. Collabo1·ate Union Pmfessot·s Are Active In Conferences of 'r'\wo· Day Conclave Friday, May 8.-- Tlle complete program for the annual 'Spring meeting of the Middle Atlantic sec- tion of the Society for the .Promo- tion of Engineering Education which will meet al Schenectady next week, May 15 and HI, under the auspices of Union College, the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and General Electric Conpany, was announced tonight by- Russell A. Hall, professor of civil engineer- ng, in charge of the program. Following 1egist1ation ·Friday morning, the more than 250 .dele- gates will make an inspection trip through the General El'ectric Com- pany and then attend a complimen- tat·y luncheon there. Friday afternoon there will be parallel conferences and inspection trips. The inspection trips will in- clude the American Lolomotive Company in Schenectady, the Mo- hawlt ·Carpet Mills In A-msterdam, he United States Arsenal at Water- vliet, the W. L. E. Gurley Company at Troy, the Ford Motor Co. assem- bly plant at Green Island, and the Schenectady Sewage Trea.tment Plant. The parallel conferences will be in the general fields of civil engi- neering, mechanical engineering electrical engineering and chemical and metallurgical engineering. Sayre Chainnan Professor Mortimer F •. Bayre will be chairman of the conference on mechanical engineering and ma- chine design which will deal with the general subject, \collegiate and post collegiate training.\ F. L. Eid- mann of Columbia University will lead a discussion on \'Co-ordination of Collegiate and Post Collegiate Training.\ F. V. Gardner of the General Electric Company-, will lead a discussion upon \F'actory Training Course of the General Electric Company.\ E: E. Parker, who teaches the advanced course at the General Electric Company, will lead the discussion upon \Thermal Problems in the Electrical Indus- try.\ And C. Concordia, also of the General Electric, 1vill spealt on \Mechanical Problens in the Elec- trical Industry.\ The afternoon's session will be concluded Frida.y with a talk by Dr. William D. Coolidge, dlreetor of the Genetal Electric Research Labora- tory, and a demonstration of late resea1ch .developments by- the staff of the research laboratory at Rice Hall, General Electric Company. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, 1\IAY 8, 1936 Charts by Heating Plant 'fest Smokiness of Coal \When a lovely flame dies, smoke gets in your ·eyes\. Anti that i.s the. reason for the green frame, erected beside the path on the entrance side of the central .heating plant, upon which can occasionally be seen six chal'ts varying in sh~Jde from white to black. According to Mr. Johnson, grounds superintendent, an experi- ment to determine which of five different ldnds of coal gives off the 'least smoke, is in progress. A suc- cessful result would :be instrumen- tal in confining cinders to the run- ning tracl!:. The charts are in order, the .first one being white and mar.ked· zero, and the one on the extreme right being black. Fifteen seconds afte1 the particular kind of coal is put In the :tl.iebox an observer com- pares the smoke corning from the stack with the char.ts .before him and repeats this at various inter- vals. Thus knowledge of the com- parative smol{iness .of the several grades of coal Is obtained. ---0--- Students Elected To Theater Board Nine Men Chosen to Manage Mountebanks Next Year In Carroll's Absence Friday, May 8.-Nine students were elected last night to the Board of Governors of the Mounte- banks Theatre, which will deter- mine the policies and productions of the theater for 1936-37, while di- rector Edward L. Carroll is away on a year's leave of absence. The new heads of the organiza- tion are Ferdinand Helm, '37, Wil- liam W. Mulvey '38, Johi1 B. Dow- ling, S. Ralph Cohen, Tony .Sharpe, Fredet·ick Frost, Henry M. Steph- enson, Carlton Garrison, and Al- bert Borden, all '37. Dowling and Mulvey will be temporary chair- man and secretary, respectively. It was also announced that the Mountebanks would give their usual three productions a season, instead of four produced this year. Helm and Dowling have both been prominent as actors in the organization. Dowling has been stage electrician and scene builder, while Helm has designed and ex- ecuted scenery, notably the set used for \Oedipus the King.\ Mulvey has played many parts with the group. His last role was that of Noah, in the play of that name. which closed the season Tuesday night at Albany. Cohen has worked as an actor, scene and costume designer for the Mountebanks, and was a mem- ber of the casting committee this year. Sharpe's work has been mainly in the field of incidental music for Mountebank's productions. He com- posed and played the music for \Charles II. or the Merry Mon- arch.\ and has supervised inciden- tal music for other plays. Colleges Fail to Teach: Good Writing Union-Syracuse Professors Report Three-Year Investigation by Burges Johnson and Helene Hartley Shows Need for Changes in Compositiort Courses American Colleges fail to teacl1 thei·r students to write well enough to meet the ordinary demands of business and society, is the conclusion of a report by Dt. Burges Johnson of Union College and Dr. Helene !Ial'tley of Syracuse Univer- sity. Based on investigations cal:Tied on for three years with a generous grant from the Carnegie Foundation for the Ad- vancement of Teaching, the e-ntire 1~eport consists of six pamphlets on various aspects of the teaching of English in American schools. Drawing th~ir conclusions in thc-<$·---------------- summary of .their report, Dr. John- son and Dr. Hartley said: \1'he is most sincerely interested in the rank and file of college graduates J.Hugwss of his students as individ- are not adequately trained in the uals, and most intelligently inter· use of the written word. Gifted ested in the art of wr·itten exp1 as- teachers of composition have de- -sion,\ the report stated in t·egai d voted their efforts too exclusiv<>ly · t<J methow of teaching composition. to the nursing of gifted young It pointed out, however, that writers, of selected groups with a ••teachers and administrators con- vocational objective. There is no ce1ned with 'English composition' evidence that the gifted ones m1ght are likely to imagine too sharp a not progress quite as fast and as distinction between types of writ- far under their own steam; and' ing. allowing the objective to de- that the ones with a vocational ub- termine the definition. They may jective might not better learn their dwell too much on the phrases, wt·iting techniques· in the shop after '-written communication' and 'self- graduation. Such advanced writing e:l!pression through writing,' !mag- groups are curricular luxuries. i ning the two classroom activities pleasurable to teacher and student, to be as distinct in their processes. though the profit is undetermined as philosophy and mathematics. and undeterminable.\ But written comm~nication is noth- The definite recommendations ing more than an effort to find the for the correction of the situation rnost satisfactory word for an idea, and then most effective arrange- include changes in curriculum dur- rnent of words; satisfactory and ef- ing most of the college years. Re- vitalization of freshman courses in fective not only to the writer but also to the reader. even if the read- English, in which both composition and literatute are taught, was er be only oneself. urged. \ ... It is in the tendency to sep- arate these two sorts of writing \They have lost the strength 1 hey into tight compartments that has once borrowed from tne neighbor- often led to the destruction of what- in.g Latin classroom, which lent a ever life may be left in the fresh- stateliness of style and a precision nJan or high school composition of diction acquired through the dis- course; and to the over-emotional- cipline of constant translation from izlng of the work in creative writ- Roman authors. They are flooded. ing classes and other small groups by hordes who come from high schools overcrowded by students. of the elect.\ lacking the background of cultured The entire investigation was homes and the tradition of good: based on a three year survey which English speech.\ included consultation with men in Journalism courses have appro-. almost all fields of business and the priated some of the best devices for professions, the setting up of ex- injecting life into composition, the: perimental classrooms in Syracuse report said, \and cheapened them and the qu~tioning of psychologists by an effort to imitate some of the on subjects in the field of creative worst manners of the press.\ -writing. \The fact remains that the teach- All those questioned were almost er will achieve the best results who (Continued on Page 4) Nine Fraternities In Song Contest ProgTam Announced for An.· nual Interfraternity Spring Night Fete Michael Fiore A warded Illinois Assistantship Michael J. Fiore '36 of Schenec- tady, has been awarded a research graduate assistantship in the col- lege of Engineering at the Univer- sity of Illinois for two years, it was announced today by Professor Russell A. Hall, co-chairman of the division of engineering at Union College. Nine fraternities will compete in Recently elected as an associate the annual Spring Night interfra- member of the national honorary tetnity song contest which will be scientific society of Sigma Xi and held on Monday, May 11, at 7:15 otl.e of the ten seniors to be given p. m. in Jacl(son's Gardens under stage appointments at commence- the auspices of the Terrace Coun- ment, Fiore has been an outstand- cil. iii.g student in the civil engineering .course. Dinner will take place at Hale House, and the speaker:> will be Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, Dt~. W. 0. Hotch- kiss, president of R. P. I., and Dr. F. L. Bishop, secretary of the So- Frost has worked as scene de- signer and actor, while Stephenson has been house manager this year. Garrison served as property man- ager of the gl'Oup during his sopho- more year. and this year has been one of the stage managers. Bor- den has been master electrician this season. The program will open with the He is now president of the Un- (Continued mt Page 4) Social Studies Squad Defies DiPersDivisions Thursday, May 7.-In re- spon£e to an editorial printed in The Concordiensis urging greater use of the facilities of- fered by the new commons, the following challenge is hurled into the teeth of the professors of three of our divisions. Will they bite? \The Division of Social Stud- ies hereby challenges any other single division of the college to a softball baseball game under the regular rules, the losing team to provide a dinner at the Hale House for winners and losers. Only full-time fac- ulty members of a division are eligible to play on its team.\ E. E. Cummins, Capt. In view of the fact that such a game will be played for what may be termed charity, Pro- fessors Doty, Larrabee, and Btonner will play. These three former Gtellar holdouts are re- puted to wield a bat and ball as well as they do a knife and fork so they may be termed \double-threat\ men. Student Committee To Study Courses McGuire Appoints Committee In Reply to Cummins' Re- quest for Investigation Friday, May li.-The Social Stud- ies Club has decided to undertake an investigation into the curriculum of the Division of Social Studies a:; requested by Dr. Earl E. Cummins, chairman of the division, it was an- nounced today by John A. McGuire, chairman of the club. Request fot• an investigation was made by Professor Cummins last month in an open letter to Chair- man McGuire. 'l'he club took action on the request May 4 and appointed a student committee to undertake the study and make recommenda- tions for possible improvements. Dr. Cummins' request said in part: \Such a study would involve a detailed examination of each of the five course~ offered by the faculty of the division. What is the purpose of each each course in the general plan? How well is it fulfilling that purpose? The study should also in- volve an examination of the general curriculum requirements in these first two years ... The study will be made, McGuire said, 'by a co1nmittee representing the whole student body of the social studies division. The committee will include tw<J members of the Social Studies Club, George Stewart '37, who will act as chairman and Casi- mir Ruszkowsld '37, and also Charles House, Paul Goldberg, Mel- vin Muroff, and Henry Hartmann, of the class of 1938. PRICE FIVE CENTS Dwight Van Avery Resigns te Take Post at Massena Eng-lish Professo1· Has Been Teaching at Union for Nine Years Richardson Appointed New Instructm· Holds Oxford DegTee; Has Taug·ht At Williams Friday, May B.-President Dixon Ryan Fox today ann<Junced the following changes in the field of English: the resignation of Dwight Van Avery, assistant professor of English, who has accepted the po- sition as head of the English de- partment of the Massena high schools, and the appointment of Dr. William Rittenhouse Richard- son of Williams College as in- structor in English at Union Col- lege for next year Professor Van Avery was grad- uated from Union College in 1926 and received his master's degree from Teachers College, Columbia University in 1931. During the nine years he has taught English literature and composition at Un- ion College, he has been chair- man <Jf freshman work for seven years. It is his interest in the ex- ecutive side as well as teaching of C()mposition and literature which led him to accept the executive- teaching position at the Massena high school~. Professot· Van Avery will terminate his position at Un- ion College on August 1. Fox ColllDlents In announcing the resignation, President Fox said: ••Jn transfer- ring his career from college teach- ing to administration and teach- ing in the state's high school sys- tem, Professor Van A very will carry every good wish from his colleagues and students at Union. He illustrates a movement which has been noted in New England, where in recent years not a few able young members of coJlege and university staffs have recog- nized that higher· compensation and more rapid advancement are to be found in the field of second- ary education and .have acted ac- cordingly. One result of this ex- ample is to dissolve the notion that the one career has any more natural dignity than the other. From them, too, the colleges are coming to realize that with re- spect to young men of marked abil- Ity as teachers they must face strong competition from the sec- ondary schools, stronger finan- cially, perhaps than they can meet.\ Work on the investigation will start as early as possible next year and will continue throughout the academic year 1936-37. At the end of the year the committee will draw up a report of its findings and present it to the Social Studies Club. Dr. Richardson was graduated from Williams College in 1922, re- ceived a bachelor's degree from Ox- ford University in 1930, master's de- giee from Harvard in 1932 and a Ph. D. from Harvard in 1933. Dr. Richardson was instructor in English at the t.Tniversity of Ro- chester for one year and he has been instructor in English at Wil- liams College since 1934. Critic Finds Some of Townsends' Paintings Boring, Others Charming entire asseiObly singing \By the· ion chapter of the American So- Light of the Moon,\ and afte; the ciety of Civil Engineers, was a proceedings are over, there wtll be tnember of the senior board of the a chorus of the Alma Mater. Ac- student council, and is a member cording to the rules of the con- of the senior class commencement test at least 75 per cent of each program committee. hou~e entered must sing one song Fiore has been regular member of their choice. Dr. Elmer A. 'fid- of the varsity baseball team dur- marsh, di1ector of music, Mr. lng the past three yeats, playing Charles T. Male, director of the expertly on second base. He band, and Dr. Warren C. Tay1~1\· earned his letter last year, and was organist fot· daily ~sembly, . wtll one of the leading hitters on the act as judges and eliminate s1x of squad, He won his freshman num- or blue, landscapes done in gt•een. the competing fraternities. T\he erals for cross-count!'y. He is also More than one painting resembles three surviving groups will then a member of the college band. nothing more than a lesson in sing either \The Terrace Song,\ 1 He graduated from the Nott solid geometry -with no attempt \The Dutchman Song,\ \Come T'errace ·High School and is affil- made to be different. A number of Now to the Campus,\ or \Down lated with the Alpha Phi Delta Townsend's canvasses are merely the Mohawk Trial,\ followiztg · fraternity. Plau Production Class to Emphasize Burlesque in Season's Last Play Emphasizing the burlesque in a modernized version of a romantic Roman comedy, the Play Produc- tion Course under the direction of Edward L. Carroll and under the auspices of the Mountebanks Theatre will give as their fifth and final public presentation of the year on F'ridar night, May 15, Terrance's rollicking play \The Phormia.\ students, and thl' translated play itself is the work of one of the production course's members. \The Phormio,\ having in spite of lUi Latin many humorous scenes, is made still more comic by the conh·ast in the mediaval settings and the modern speech, acting and dress. The settings used in the play have been copied from those used in a 15th century pro ductlon of tht> comedy. The paintings of Chai·Jes L. P. Townsend \32 the fint alumnuti to be re.pre£ented in our ''museum\ have been on exhibition this week irt the Old Gym Dot'm. For some time, ever since the art exhibits were begun, selections, from the works of many attists have been shown, but never before has the list of these contributing included the name of a Union almnnus. Mr. Townsend's work is not uni- formly· good nor is it uniformly po01'. There are pieces that are good, pieces that are poor. Of the even two dozen ,picttii•es that adorn the walls of the Old Gym, some are not worthy of a. second glance. In several of his. canvass- es, the artist has attempt~d to use solid colors and straight lines. ~he result is monotony, .pure and sim- ple, Picture after picture portrays equare houses done in red, yellow, boring. which the judges will malte their ---------------- final decisicm. However,. not all the artist's d th work is tedious; Here and there The nine contestants an e among the daubings appears a songs they have decided to ~ing fairly decent painting. Although are: Beta 'l'heta Pi with \The Lev- none of these show any outstand· ing Cup\; Delta Phi, \Ode to Del- ing .originality, they are charming, ta Phi\; Theta Delta Chi, \Tbe- examples .of the \tr·aditio!lal' sub- Fraternal Hymn\; Sigma .. C'hi. ject. In them the artist abandons \Sweetheart of Sigma Chi\; Alpha. his bent for primary colors and Delta Pili, \Hail to Thee\; Psi' Up- · straight lines, and prodUces a ere\ silon \Bold and Ready\; Kappa. ditable result. His painting of the, Alph'a \Our Hearts Are Thine, organ-grinder,. those of Old-World K. A:\; and Chi Psi, \Fair Chi,, street scenes, and ·the still ,Ji fe Psi:\ canvas are indications of his abil- In case of had weather the con- ity to paint realistically. test will .be postponed until the< H. D. H. 13th or the 15th. G1·aduation Fee The Graduation Fee of $15.00 is due and must be paid TUES- DAY, MAY 12th at the Comp- troller's Office. The usuatl fine of $2.00 will be made for all payments made after the above date. The Comptroller:s Office will be open for the collection of {ees on May 15th. from 8:30- 11:45 A. M., and from 1-4:45 P.M, Anthony Hoadley, Compt. Translated into the popular ver- nacular by ·Fet•dinand Helm Jr., \The Phormio ·· has been mounted by the members of the course into a farce of the highest and lowest comedy dimensions. Instead of the usual Mountebanks production which have been given annually during the commencement week- end, \The Phormio\ will be pUt on in the little theatre on June 5. Already having produced five different plays this season, the production class will give the Ter- ence comedy with all the accoutre- ments of an eJCperienced amateur theatrical group. T'he settings have been designed and executed by the The plot is concerned very thea trically with a typical love prob lem. It tells of the tribulations of two young men w11o fall in love with two young women, but who are preventt>d in their love\making by their respecti-ve fathers. Even tually all is solved through the ministrations of two dastardly slaves. The cast is composed of David Becker, Wallace 'I'. Foote, John Emans, Tony Sna rpe, S. Ralph Cohen, Ferdinand Helm, John B. Dowling, Carlton Garrison, Fred- erick Frost, Robert T. Shreve, and William B. Meyer.

'I Two THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 8, :1!936 speculative planning for thirty meals one day ·~\:!~~========~============] Wee l<s .Best Editoria'l, and twelve the next. On the other hand if a ( ·Q l U M ,ft . THE :mn--u~M'l\ION you WANT constant supply of students dined there, and· . . . ~ The .su!.jae:t of self-education IS nothing; would insure this m.ore than a large ll;;;:=;;;..;;=========;;;;;;;:;===============;;!J- not a new- one, but has it ever oc- h ld b d curred >to you that whatever the \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ FouND!lll 1877 boarding student body W 0 WOU e epen- The college has given birth to Etiquette ~-Dress, :by Dr. Fox, educati.()n you: receive, no matter dent fn· rneaJs on the most convenient gas- the annual Catalog·\le. Personally . Lectures on· :clean sweaters and how .form:.al· it may appear, it is 1935 Member 1936 i=issociated Colle6iole Press Distributor of we don't think it til€ most ade- .. pressed trous:ers, with a ·laboratory after all: gl'IOTen you by yourself? tronomical lahoratol'y, not only W0Uld the quate document we have eve1' course in the mo:nagement of the Althoug)l it :may be unnoticed, _the C t t f 't d t t·h seen. (Of course, that is merely a Derby. slightest 'bit ·of 'learning reqmres 0111H10llS opera e a a pro l an . a e personal reaction, tempered with Sa.nslult A:s 'She Is Spoke, by Dr. some e-ffor.t; for this reason, then, same time more efficiently, but also the schizophrenia* and springtime, Danton, with Footnotes in Poly.- no one ·need shun the term self- Collee>iate Die)est . doll@J•s would feel best repaid for their un- and: -is accordingly •open to ques- nesian. •. education ot· Intentionally avoid its Uon.J But we think that anybody Deute-I·onorny** and ·Paranoia, by practla~; Fu.rther than that, since Sulto ami exclu:;tve uu.liuuul udvertiblllg l\~lH\eSell!Ull \'t:l:i th-ing- efforts. can list a few courses that are Dl'. Lig-on~ a course In Com para- it requires ·e:ffort to learn, would it really existing and given. It takes tive Biblel:lla.nla, .given on a short- :be unreascmable to suggest that the We cannot refrain ft·om hoping our con- some real brains to make up a wave >broadcast from somewhere effort be t:ur:ned toward that learn- NA~l'JUN,\1. AI>Vl•:Jt'l'JHJ:-.:U Hl•:llVlCJ~. luo. 4~U .:\ladJ:-,uu t\Vl:nlle . t · t t th f h d 't few courses (invent them, we t'·n Cent.ral :=urope, W·here we are ing which will deal you the most J ec u1~es m respec o · e t•es men orm Sl - d th · = fl '? ,I - th d t' mean, not stu y .· · .er.n over agam told, Dr. L.igon will be at the bene t , J.·lat lS e e uca 10n you New Yullt CJI Y ua.tiou ~we C01Tect. Everyone, realizing the next year), and in that particular t' want. the compilers of :the Catalogue Ime. Let us .then ,briefly suggest to Cllicugo - Hu~lou - Sau l•'ruuciticO - J,u:; Augele:; J•utlluuli - t:i\alll\ The official new~papet· of Lhe slutlent:,; uf, L!nion Cullege. Publi~hetl '1'11e:;uayfl aut! l•lltl~y:,; tlll'oughout the college year, excciJt tlunug neces,sity for it, anticipates with avid in tel'- have fallen down with a dull thud.· Music •l-Ove1'tones, Undertones, you a \Wa:y ()I' tvto (.besides the for- est the activit\ of the COllege authorities on So humbly, and with all ·due re- and Why I W;xnt To Go To Rus- mal ones.) i:n which you .may get .J spect to the Dean and the divi- sia, by A. ·vv. Hepner. · this educ:ati<m. Let your •reading Clui::;lma::; and ~priug rece_::;_\e_s_. __ _ f'ubllcation Office, The Guzetle Pt·ess, 334 State ~t., Schenectady, N. Y ., Telephone 4-4.141 -Entered at UHI Scheucclady Post Of.fice as l;lecund CJa:;t! Mail Maller Sub::;cliiJlion price l<'i ve cents a cupy; $3.UU a yeur; tleliveretl anywilw! !~~~Led ~l!l_l~. .l!:uilm·lal Hoom::;, Silliwan Hall, Uniot}. College CalliilU::l. Telepiluue, l;lclteuecludy, 4-013~·--- --- --- -- Seni~~~oard Norman R. Stewart. .......... Editor-in-Chief t 'hi Psi Lwtgt' ·- -l-U5:!i' • s. Ralph Cohen .............. Managmg Editor Ju :.\1. \· ;;. c.~ 1-11•~ Fenton A. Gage._. .............. ·-·~;ws Editor lh.:lta UtJ~Jluu lluU~t--4·,~~ ... 11Hton D. Bedell ................. Sports Editor 1 '~Ita U!J::,iluu I Iuuse-4- i~:.!:! Daniel B. Wohl .......... Cir·culation Manager Kai>Pa :Su lluu~e -4-7331 Robert 0. Nelson ........... Business Manager J.;appa Alpha L~gc---4_-_b_l~~ ___ _ Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORS Edward Barry Robert Ferguson Julius :Bundgus Hyman Enzer \Villard Dean Henry Hartmann Robert Doig Melvin Muroff Carl Trahman ::;ophomOt~e Board Assistant Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, E. Houghtaling, P. Humptu•·Y. F. Saidel, D. Taft, !{. \\'altPr, R. Morgan, D. Miller, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Sherman, J. Smith. Issue Editors llemy I Iartmann .Melvin I. ::\Iuroff \Villard Dean Friday, May X. 1936 TI:IE FRESHMAN HOSTELRY The inevitable come::; at last, or at 1£'ast it gla11ces ful'tively around the coJ·npr as the notice is published auout the dormitory changes. We hope l\h·. Hoadley acts on theory that since someday all freshmen will reside in dormitol'ieR, there iR no more oppor- tuae moment than tlw pt·Psent to prepare fot this phenomenon. In 1·enovating the Old Gym Dorm into modernly equipped study and sleeping rooms, rese1·ving contiguous sections of the dorms for housing freshmen, the administration has committed itself to a most necessary and, of its nature, worthy cause. Insofar as this is the first time that real administra- tive action on our hostel system has taken pht<!P, we can excuse it fot· the limitations and inadequacy of its measures. But we should lJe difficult per·sons to sooth if all ac- tion stops here. Vv'het·ein we are indebted to the anony- B1(}US donors of Hale House and the Com- mons fot· theit· munificent gift, it is not in- conceivable that other fairy godparents lurk in the shadow of our eminent pt·esident's cotel'ie of friends. It is not our intention to presage any donation. \\' e are trying only to stiruulate inter.est in achieving a solution to the problem of dorm facilities for freshmen, a problem of vital sig·nificance to the fra- ter11ity system. 'The Commons becomes a dubious financial asset, with all due regard to its luxuriant and tasteful adornments, if the number of mouths to feed is small and uncertain. It is small wonder that Mr. Cease has encoun- tcl·ed financial RnagR. Without a Rteadv stream of diners his worl{ becomes keenly this iss 11e. sional chairmen we: ·present :Music 2--'The ·Opera, from Wag- be bows~, wandering into every~ OUR OWN CA'I\ALOGUE ner to Wag:ner, gwen by M:r. :t:a- thing ,bu_t stopping only at the or buesnic with due .respect to the things wblch interest you-and let Ft·ench A.cacemy. IUusHations by it be :plentiful; the means: the IF YOU WANT' ''rO GO TO selections frnJO the operas I>eridered · greystone- :bUilding at the corner of UNION by Mr. z, · the ·cam)?US (it contains 100,000 {Courses listed with a few details; A, h d Music 3-Chonin, by Dr. Vedde 1 ·, volumes). .nnot er way, an a N0'W THAT THE MATCH IS OVER fot· full particul;us, 'liNrite a letter \' 1 · t · k k 1 d · with a ther-modynamic piano. . aztef•, ~> plc up now e ge ts to The Concordiensis-) simply- to sit-and listen; the General !-Information on All Public Speaking 1-by Dr. Fox. means: lecturers, a score of whom subjects, Given by lilr. March with A Speech For Every Occasion, pass t.hroug-h Geneva a year, and the assistance of the rest of the And How T\o Ct:eate ·the Occasion. the \:oes~ions\ of your friendi3. faculty. Public 8}}-ealdng 2-Enunciation These .twro :vequire a minimum of After the tennis matches Wednesday, it became quite apparent that something is mdically wrong with the courts. Repeatedly tl1e players were forced to make deciRions on placements which were impossible to see when the lines and clay b.ecame one and the same th-ing. This condition proved not only em:harras.sing to our players as hosts, but also was provoking to the opponents. General 2-What Every Young and ·Culture-, hy Dr. Kellogg. efftn:t---,so- they should appeal-but man Should Know, Mr. Wyatt, ab- Public Speaking 3-The Anec- they .q uatify- as self-education. And wlutely unassisted. E~nph.asis will dote, Pet-~onal, Reminiscent, His- whatever .th .. e learning, if it brings be laid on What To Do With The torical, aod even, if necessary, Bi- you •bene:tlt, it's what you want. Great Outdoors. ological, by Dr. Burges Johnson. __:'I'J1e Hobart Herald General 3-What :Every Young Man Should Not Rnow, The En- Public .S-peaJ[ing >1-----Elocution, 0·--- Mimetics, The Dance, and How 'Ne>tes. on Our tire Faculty, in a .group of Lee- To Act ir~ Twelve Lessons by Mr. tures Simultaneously Delivered. C • d p CarrolL {We have just he!iird that . onfemporarJeS Etiquette 1-Health an er- Ml'. Carr<>ll ,vill' not be here. We sonal Appearance, ;by Mr. Wyatt. will write to .Jean Harlow.) GoLd ~Iefbl, Winner Public S!)oealdng, ad infinitum- Dr. ::Rol::lel\t Maynard Hutchins of There are several Teasons why the courts al'e uot in good shape, not the least of them ll being the carelessness of those who play. Now ivhen an individual in a fit or tantrum Now Sho\'.ing ~ Sunday Cha.pel. the University of Chicago has been Pul>liclty 1-llow to Get in The award~d' the gold medal of the Hoi- - .. Newspapers 1nex:pensively, by Mr. land SocietY\ of New York for \disf- Enzer, with a laboratory in Being· tinguishe d service in the field o a Li'l'e Wil'E, educatlor.J..\ thro·ws his racket half the length of the This being our ne:xt to the last column of the year, the issue ecH- COUl't, the projectile on its fall to eal\th tor told us that we could do any- ! d · J tl t thing we damned please, and now meets t 1e groun tn sue 1 a way 1a a we'le so bewildered with all that slight llillnu;ion results. The earth, sup- freedom, we don't know what to do. We could tell you the latest posedly clay, dry and crumbly, around this Little Audrey joke ()r better still inde11t~t>tion is loosened and with the ensuing the one about the traveling sales- man. It seems there \Vas a travel- scuffle the surface lJecome.s seriously dam- ing salet>man who-( Ed. Note. Cen- aE:ed. sored)-well, that's out. ~ We could parody F\. H. or G., but The frequent use of these courts make it that's no fun because you have to have something v;orth parodying next to impossi!Jle to keep them in any kind to make it interesting. We might of condition, a fact especially noted when- even fight with J. I:!. D. about a movie, but the trouble is we agree. evet• there is a match held. Somehow it No, we're just going haywire and seems stranE:e that the tennis team should we just dare the proof reader to ~ follow us. have to practice on the courts after they Adjectives fron1 a. Critic's The- saurus-Competent, ravishing, gor- llaVe become CUt Up during the morning and geous, sensitive ct:eature, sympa- t'<l!'l.)' afternoon play. If the three or four thetic performance, laudable, de- lightful, luscious, superb, superfi- COlll\tS near the Delta Upsilon House were cia!, charming, mediocre, lousy. t<J b-e reserved for the varsity tennis squad, Overworked Dratnatic Scenes- \And we'll go to Germany, and pel'haps the saving on wear and tear would France and stay .fmever beneath l d · t · th fleecy clouds and azure skies-oh, enable t 1e COUl't atten ant to mam Ulll em it'll bo grand with nothing to du or in first class shape. think about but you_\ \But - but dm·ling. I - I can't. We dwell on this topic at some lengths not Oh, I know I should have told you to det'ide the administration nor those in before. I'm going to have a, a, a er, ah, B-A-B-Y.\ Cut. cha.t·ge of the athletic equipment, but sim- \Oh dear, just sa::Y the words I want to hear-the words I've wait- ply to bring to their attention certain trivial, ed for all this time.\ He then a.nd yet obvious, conditions that need ad- speaks thickly through twelve yards of cotton- j Ustment. \I - I love you dear, yes love REFORM PHI BETA I{APPA Tl\e investigation that the Social Studies Club is conducting brings to our mind the problem of the Phi Beta Kappa elections. This fa1nous natiohal honorary society stands before u.s as an organization whose purpose has become outmoded, and, unless it alters you - and you're .the first woman I've ever told that to.\ Cut. BEST MOVIES-Carole Lom- bard-Fred MacM:urray in \'fhe Bride Comes Hoine.\ Noel Coward- Julie Haydon in \'I'he Scoundrel,\ Victor McLaglen in \The In- former,\ Garbo i.n \Anna Karen- ina,\ Gable-Laugb.ton'Tone in \Mu- tiny On the Bounty-,\ \The Ghost Goes West\ Robert Donat, \Mid- summer Night's Dream,\ \The Story of Louis Pasteur\ Paul Mtihi. T. S. IN THE;t-..AAIL its basic principles, it will loose the tradi- To the Editor, When Hale House was started, tionally respectable position which time-mel- we non-fraternity men were over- l<lwed years have given it. joyed at the prospect of a restau- rant on the campus. We have been Where reform is most needed is in the re- almost as delighted'O'Vith the reality as with the project. quit'ement to membership. Her.e so much But there are still flaws in the emphasis is placed <lll scholarship that the arrangements. We have no com- plaint to make about the break- quality, ability, remains in the background. fasts and lunches. The food is good, When ability is expended into a variety of ·the selection is wide .and the prices are fair. It is the evening meal fields of endevour, the l'esultant, though not that must be adapted to meet bet- ter the needs of the students. perfection, attains a remarkable degTee of· In the first place, the Jaclt of any versatile impeccability whereas the pursuit choice-except the ... tea, coffee, or mille?\ that the waiter croons in of scholal'ship alone leads to a goal, stag- our ear every night-, in the sec- t d · 't · 1 f and place the prt<:e. must both be na e Ill 1 S smg eness 0 purpo.se. considered. Lack of choice is to be As at Yale, where the fraternity has un- expected in a boarcllng house, but h 'II f t d t d f not in a restaurant- and from dergone t e surve1 ance o s u en an · ac- the splendid a Ia carte service of ulty, :and revisions suggested, scholastic at· the other two meals we infer that Hale House is a sort. of restaurant. tainment, since it is so often rewarded in Why should there not be some scholarships and prizes of eash awards, is choice in the ev!)ning meal too? In the Concordiensls of a few days not to be given paramount consideration over baclt it was mentli>ned that Hale d . 'f' d b'l't Tl 'tt h House needed mor-e student pa- lVersne a I I Y· 1e comm1 ee W 0 tt·onage. But how can students be ehoose each year the neophyte Phi Betes expected to patronize an eating • f h I place where they cannot get what might ·well consider the actiOn 0 ot er co. they want, while not too far from lege:s for a more liberal attitude in the reg- the campus are restaurants with cheaper meals and a choice? ulations of admittance. .A Neutral. Publicley 2-How To Stay Out No Sem~ter Marl•s Of The Newspapers, by anyone · BroVIn University has eliminated who finds himself equal to re- . mid-year ·ex::aminations and semes- stralning .M:r. Enzer. ter grades in full-year courses. So much for courses. We must .Tbo~nds in 'the Air now list the administrative offi- , In two years Ohio State's Junior cers of oct· reformed college as we ; CoHeg-~ a:f the Air has enrolled mnre see them.. ; than 7;001() students in 43 courses. Preside:nt: Dr. Fox, because no ~What a ~lndfall! one else -will take the job. • Delt.a :Ka.ppa Epsilon fraternity Dean ~f the ·Faculty: F. H., be- will recejve the bulk of the estate cause he knows the faculty loves of James Anderson Hawes, de- him. ·ceased Nrew York Lawyer. Dean CJ! Snulents: F. H., be- !Naval Ai1• Tra.ining cause tl1>e students will put up · The nu:mber <Jf college men apply- with h:im. a..nd like it or else- ing- f~r free Navy air training has Bursar: F. H., bec~use he needs decreased sharply since last year. money Kllmet• Memorial • • i The lJniveJ'sity of Detroit plans Secreta.I'Y: F. H. for no parhcu- to dec)!cate a campus tree to the Jar reaso-n, memory of Joyce Kilmer, war-time Directo-t'S of Athletics: F. H., for ·poet. the sake- ()of the incongruity, and Orchi.Js 1or Gomell T. S. who insults F'. H. in today's More than 100 rare specimens. Movie Colu:mn. from So-utl:l. and Central America And n10w· It's dinner time, And have l:Jee.:nadded to Cornell Univer- anyone v;h,o doesn't like our lit- sity's fa01ed orchid collection. tie set u_p can go and eat a cold Jazz Eeemnmeuded boiled potato, F. H. Jazz for the public schools is the *-Or n1a.ybe it's our I. Q. recmn.mendation of Dr. Harold G. **-A IJook in the Bible, as you Carnpbel1, New York City's super- probably didn't know. intenden;t of schools. Ship by, and Rail way Express can handle laundr:y packages for you very easily anod ecol'llomically. Simply notify the f10lks tbat you are shipping your laundr:y by Rail way Express and ask them t.:J rettJ.rn it the same way. If you wisb, you can ship \collect.\ It saves tim.-e and detail, and loose change. R:ailway Express is fast and depenc[. al:lle and can be relied upon to ;get yvur laundry back as fresh and i:1:1 a.s good .condition as when it left home, S<> think the idea over and telephollte R:ai[ way Express. Our motor .trucl will pick up the package at your do01r at no e:xtra charge, For Service or Information 'Telephone C<>r. Wall & Liberty Sts. \Phone 4-5612 Depot Office: N. Y. C, Station 'P l1o11e 4-8512 Scl-tenectady, N. Y. RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY INC. N .AT I 0 N. W IDE RAIL -AI R SERVICE Nin( CouJ Varsity Ni In a f1 ball and 1 noon witl a prelude l'OW. ThE the trac1 meet wit rnore, Pa I-Im:nilton This aft< sity sends to Schenec in the ho tween Unic morrow, tl 'l'rinity Co: Hartford, week-end f colleges ha gregation::; ing a wim T'he Salt tically the feateu the two weelH tho visito1 ~afe blows cuse has victories, twice. Hov Ityan, wh~ against U11 the startin cently left fur a ::;pet from Syrat anu fieldin though, sti the visit01 favorites f W: Coach I no change and Gris\1 the box. I fray, Lloy. be fit·,;t < Guy can n Iron-man : and Doug reserve. Tl only in th: probably b where me made of I' has gone he has be• Trinity • has beater by the G: leyan, but than that except tha freshmen all of whc play agai11 er, and M leading hi prominent: far, and C: twirling, 1 capably h hits in tw The Un night for at the H~ tomorrow in the aft, week-end and it wil fieldmen l consistanc suah a sil Thir In an a meet of t send an the Vermc tomorrow. chusetts ~ Garnet tri it three E on to an Co-capt£ expected 1 the jumi mates in Myers anc gaining r some ad Hirst will tarily anc jumping, Arny anc compete event. In the Captain 1 pected tc points, ru weights Krull ru through. G. In the i and his Shield ar in the fi team up in an at1 of victor broken. Wat'l·en the dope ter by miler, Je run the Vibert F will perf< The di1

is oc- the is the ires its d it the you to for- get the let the of a is the hom and of And t. of been Hol- \dis- d of state de- pply- has year. plans the erica s the G. uper- < . THE CONOORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1936 Three Nine Meets Syracuse Today, Union Court Squad Golf Tea~ Take~ Freshman Lacrosse, Baseball Co < urtmen H' osts t R· t· Downs Colgate 6-3 Two Stratght Wins .. T p· I H iT · . · · · .· · . · ·. o · · u. gers -- -- earns , • ay ere · omorrow Cohen Shines as Union Team Union Divot Men Outplay Varsity Teams On Foreign Tel'l'itory Tomorrow Nine Meets Trinity, Track at Ve:i'mont ' Swarthmore, Hamilton Other .Foes ' In a fuU sports weekend the Union Colleg·e varsity base- ball and tennis teams will play two .JI:ome contests this after- noon with Syracuse and Ra:tg1ers respectively, at 4 o'clock, in a prelude to the four varsity games scheduled a way tomor- row. The nine will travel to Hartf!ln·d, Conn., to play Trinity; the track team g-oes to Buding·ton, Vt., for its first away meet with. Vermont; the laceosse team travels to Swarth- more, Pa., to meet Swarthmore; and the tennis temn plays Hmnilton at Clinton, N. Y. This afternoon Syracuse Univer-<$>--------------- sity sends its b1g Orange ball team . to Schenectady for the final game ably ·be le.d m by Bastedo_ and in the horne-and-home series be- Hawkes, Wtth Art Grant ass1sting tween Union and Syracuse; and to- Bast~ do in .the mile and . Sammy morrow, the Dutchmen will meet Hewitt kottmg the two Inlier. 'l'rinity College on the diamond at !'s us.ual, Jack Gle? and Sherrn Hartford, Conn. It will be a big ~ust Will be entere.d m the dashes. week-end for the Gamet for both Glen now has a fwst and a sec- colleges have l'eputedly ~trong ag- ond place to ~is c~·edit, an.d Hi~·st gregation~ and thew is no predict- has b~en runnmg right belund h1m ing a winner in either contest. to g:;tm one second place and also , , . . a thud. W.Jth a btt n1ore exertwn, . l'he Salt C1ty team ,'·'l'lll b.e prac- these dashmen may ring up a few tLcally the same outftt which de- more points against the ver- feated the Dutchmen at Syracl!se monters. two ~e~lts ago, 4 to 1, allowmg Another clean sweep is possible thc YLSttot·s .to garner. but two in th.e javelin tossing contest. Krull safe blows. Smce that ttme, S:rra- has been consistently throwing the c~se }:1as rung UJ;> three or lour oar for an impressive distance and VIc.torJes, defeatmg . Rochester tlloom is close behind him. Van twtce. However, the pttcher, Bert Wert Is also scheduled to compete Ryan, who per'formed so capably 1 n this event against Union will be absent from · the starting lineup, for he has re- cently left the team he led so well r h Q k T for· a special study course away o· ·ug ua er en from Syracuse. The potent hitting ' ' and fielding power of the Orange, though, still remains the same, and the visitors are conceded to be favorites for the contest. Waters May Start Coach Hatfield has announced no change in the lineup for Union and Griswold will again assume the box. However fm· tomorrow's fray, Lloyd Waters will probably be fir,;t choice, since co-captain Guy can not be expected to do an Iron-man act, and Herro Greulich and Doug Lambeth will be held in reserve. The lineup may be shifted only in that Phil Duchscherer will probably be moved up to a position where more advantage can be made of his hitting power, which has gone to practically naught he has been batting in last place. Trinity will offer a team which has beaten Stevens, (also defeated by the Garnet), has bested Wes- leyan, but lost to Amherst. Other than that recm·d, little is known, except that it has been using four freshmen in the starting lineup, all of whom will be ineligible for play against Union. Parker, catch- er, and Morris, shortstop, are the leading hitsmiths, having figured prominently in the conquests so far, and Captain Patton will do the twirling, since he has pe!'formed capably in allowing but thirteen hits in two games. The Union nine will leave to- night for Hartford, after dinner at the Hale House, and will rest tomorrow morning for the game in the afternoon. It is a strenuous week-end the Garnet has to face, and it will show whether the Hat- fieldmen have the endurance and consistancy to come through in such a situation. Third Track Meet In an attempt to take the third meet of the season, Bill Ketz will send an unrevised lineup against the Vermont University track team tomorrow. After subduing Massa- With their season's record all even at two victories and two losses, the lacrosse team leaves this .veek-end for Swarthmore, Pa., .vhere it meets a veteran Swarth- ,nore team Satmday. After hitting their peak in successive games ~gainst the compat:a tively weaker opposition offer·ed by Dartmouth and .M. I. T. the Dutchmen came to a ~ull stop before the Syracuse menace in an after-Prom tilt last Saturday. For tomorrow's game the same ten who worlted against Syracuse will probably start although sev- eral shifts may be ·in order by game time. Not only will there be presented a battle of the Garnets, but also a struggle between the two centers, Fraser of Union and Frazer of Swarthmore, Elliott and Wayne. Quakers W<Jn Three .At Swarthmore where they take their lacrosse seriously a veteran tealll is operating this season. In six games that they have played against the stiffest of opposition they have won three and lost three. Among their victims are the Philadelphia, All-Stars in the open- Ing game, 8-4; Lafayette, nominally a strong team, 13-1, and Nassau Club for Lacrosse, 12-4. Yale shut off the late attack of the Pennsylvania Garnets, and gained the nod by the wafer-thin margin of 7-6. The other two loss- es came at the bands of Army's high-geared ten and the Mount Washington Lacrosse Club, an ag- gregation of former college stars. Army shut out the Quakers 9-0, and the Mount Washington Club triumphed at 13-14. Bob Tt·oeger, the Swarthmore goalie, credited with thirt~-two as- sists in the Army game, 1s a cer- tain starter. One of the threat men. Gibby Oehmann, does not start as a rule but is substituted when the going gets rough. Cap- tain Lichwentainer and Ben Cooper, the football captain-elect, are the two homes and together with Oehmann are the leading chusetts State and Rochester•, the scorers. Garnet tracltmen will try to make it three straight, and perhaps go Rut1rers Here on to an undefeated season. >L> Co-captain Emery Burton wlll be This afternoon, at approximately expected to turn in three first.s in 3 o'clock on the college courts, the the jumping contests, and his varsity net team meets a Rutgers mates in the pole vault, Harry My ers and AI van Wert have be.en squad of which little is known, d but of which much is expected. gaining rapidly and may proV1 e The New Brunswick team, located some additional points. Sherm near the center of Metropolitan Hirst will leave his dashes momen- tennis acti'lity, is an experienced tarily and help out in the bt'oad g\roup and one which will serious- jumping, while Wint Day, Mal ly tht:eaten the winning streak of Arny and Jack Bloom ~ill 3;lso the home team. compete in the high JUmpmg 'l'omorrow afternoon the Union event. squad jaunts to Hamilton to op- In the rest of the field events pose the Continentals. They have Captain Leon Naguszewski is ex- a nucleus for a good team with pected to pile up a few more three ex:pel'ienced men and a poir~ts, and a clean sw~ep in u;e ,sophomore star who was· former weights is possible tf Charlie college champion, but the team Krull and Joe Milano come was not as fortunate with Syra- through. cuse as was Union. 'l'al\es Second Victory Middlebury, Hamilton; Of the Season Drop One to Colgate The sparkling play of Joe Cohen Whitewashing the Middlebury enabled the Garnet tennis team to 'team 6-0 on the Mohawk Iinlts yes- bi·eeze thr·ough Perry Rochafellow's terday afternoon, the golf team Colgate aggregation, 6-3, on the ended a series of three matches in home courts, Wednesday. Trailing , three day.; with a record of two in the final set with a deficit of wins and one loss. Wednesday four gameB and the balance of the afternoon the Union golfets de- match dependent on a single game feated a strong Hamilton team 5-4, victo1y by the Maroon captain, Bob while Tuesday they lost to Colgat(· Parsons, Cohen rallied strongly to 8%-% in their opening mateh play- take the set and match at 9-7. The ed on the Seven Oal~s comse at play was marked by long rallies Hamilton, N. Y. from baclihand to backhand, mixed Yesterday Union made a clean with the occasional lob or fore- sweep of its individual and best hand drive. It was again Cohen's ball matches, with Phil Little card-• remarkable backhand stroke that ing a 79 to easily defeat Neilson of won him the match. Middlebury, 4 and 3, and Captain Monroe Froelich and Bob Langet .At the number one post for Col- gate played a vastly improved Gor- scoring easy wins over Leete and, die Wood. Last year Wood felt the Riccw. Johnny Emans wa::; com- bitter vindictive of Chick Stroebel, pelled to play an extra hole against, former Union Captain, to the tune Patrizzi before he won 1 up. of 6-3, 6-1. He took out all his Summaries vengence on Fritz Hawley, when he Individual matches _ Froelich defeated the college t1>nnis cham- lUJ defeated Leete, 5 and 4; pi on with a myriad of overhead Emans 1 u 1 defeated Patrizzi, 1 up smashes, sharp volleys and gener- on 19 th; Little \ UJ defeated Niel- ally excellent placementR Hawley son 4 and 3 ; Langer \ U) defeated at no time ever threatened his nat- Riccio, 6 and 4. tily dressed opponent, although he Best-ball matches-Froehlich and uncorked sev~ral phenomenal shots Emans 1 U> defeated Leete and The revamped doubles combina- Putrizzi, 4 and 3; Little and Lan- tions brought excellent results. ger \U) defeated Nielson and Ric- Hawley and Cohen had every thing clo, 5 and 3. their own way as they defeated Waldron Gets Union Point Wood and Robins handily, despite In its opening match of the sea- the loss of one set. Fincl• son Tuesday Colgate University'\ and Capt. George McGee battled golfers routed the Union links- their oppcnents on even terms for men, 8%-1 2 , on the Seven Oaks two sets, but saved the match in course. The matches were all very :he final one. In the third post Or- one-sided with the exception of the ton and Salad, an untried pair, by encounter between Wes Van Ben- accurate and steady stroking sub- schoten and Van Waldron which dued Quackenbos and Davis. finished all even. l:lingle~-\\'no<l (r) defeate<l Ilawley. Summaries 6-1. G-~ ; 1 'ohell ( [') tlt•feated l'ur\\\~· Hl. li-3, :•-7; <'orllnh\ ('\') <lefealetl :l!r·· Fay (Cl defeated Little 4-3; Hee. ll-n, ll-~; llalpin !<') rlefeal<·d or- Stewart tC) defeated Emans 3-2; tntt, !J-7, 6-:l; l'aln•l (\') defeated N C) d f t d F hi' h 3 1 vua<·l{enhm. 4-6, li-1. 6-l; Finch 1 l') oyes \ e ea e roe tc - ; <l<.•fc•ttle<l Huhills, 6·3, 6-2. Adamson <C) defeated Langer 4-2. llouiJles-IIawley and l'oheu (l') tie- Best ball: Noyes and Adamson f<·ale<l \\'ou•l aud I~oLins, G-~. fi-7, G-3; tC) defeated Froehlich and Lan- ~1<-llee and I•'iu<'h rlefealed l'ar,.on>< and ger 3-1; Austin (C) defeated Brown <'ur.mh\· :l-G, 6-l, G-4; <lt·ton nntl Halarl 3-2; Van Benschoten (C) tied with •lefea.tc·d <..)Ua<\kenhn\, 7-5, li-3. Van Waldron; Austin and Van INTRAMURAL$ Intl\amural Notices :Postponed Softball Games :May 15-Phi Sigma Kappa vs . Theta Delta Chi; Kappa Sigma vs. Neutrals; Phi Gamma Delta vs. Sigma Chi. May 16-Alpha Phi Delta va. Theta Nu Epsilon; Alpha Delta Phi vs. Delta Upsilon. :May 21-Theta Delta Chi vs. Theta Nu Epsilon; Neutrals vs. Phi Sigma Delta; Sigma Chi vs. North College. · :May 28-Kappa Nu vs. North College. Since South College and Delta Chi have forfeited two games in softball, all further games with them will be forfeited to their fu- ture opponents in this competition. The second round in horseshoes must be completed on or before May 9. A forfeit means loss of many points. The second round in tennis must be completed on or before May 10. Games not played by that time will be defaulted. The spring track meet will l:!e b.eld next Monday and TueSday, May 11 and 12, beginning at 4:00 p. m., rain or shine. Entries must be in by tomorrow. Participants may enter only three events, two running events a11d one field event ()r two field events and one running event. The relay will not count as an entered event; that is, each en- trant may compete in three events beside the relay. In correctio11 of an error in com- pilation, the Baseball Field Meet was won by Kappa Nu Frater- nity, Beta Theta Pi being second and Sigma Chi third. For Good Food and Courteous Service stop at De Witt's Lunch 118 Ja.y St. opp. City Hall Phone 2-4838 Benschoten (C) defeated Little and Emans 3-2. Govern Shoots a 75 Against Hamilton Wednesday, the Union team won two out of three of their best ball matches, two of which went twenty-three holes before being decided. Fred and Dick Govern of Hamilton were 1 up at the twenty-third on Captain Froelich, but Phil Little and Bob Langer we1·e 1 up on the 19th against Edwards and Sabrina. Ken Brown and Van Waldron were 1 up on the 23rd against Montgomery and Saparano to give Union a slim margin of victory. The best individual score, a 75, was turned in by Dick Govern in defeating Froelich 3 and 2. Van Waldron came through in the singles to take over Montgomery. Sununaries ItHlividual matrhes-D. Govern (H) defe!Ltetl Froehli<'h, 3 and 2; F. Gov- ern (H) tlefente,J !·~mans. 2 an<l 1; Little ( l') defeated I•:dward\· ;, and 4; Sabine defeated Langer 2 anti I; Wal· rtron (I') rtefeate<l ~Tontgmnery, 2 ann 1; Bro\\11 (C') defeated SaJarano, o anrl 3. BeRt-hall mntrltel\-F. and D. Clovern (ll) defeated I•'t•oehlic>h and l•!manf!, 1 up on 23rd hole; l-ittle and I,augei' Cl'l defeated Edwards an<l Sabine, 1 up on lnh hole; V\'al<lron and Brown (l') defeated Qua.ckenbos and Ilavis, 7-5, G-3. BELLINGER PAINT CO. ARTHUR TRIGG, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes Glass, Brushes and Wall raper 126 BROADWAY FRANK FERRARO Fruit and :Produce The beat, f()r the least, with dependa.ble service. 1281 Crane St. Tel. 2-7828-W AMERICAN A1 LAUNDRY 20% DISCOUNT CASH and C.ARRY 10·80 Bm•rett St. Phone 4·3166 G. Smith in Htudles · T'he Union players will probably JAMES E. DAY, Optician Prescriptions Filled or Duplicated General Repair Work OOi Union St., Cor. Barrett St. 3 Bloclts Below College Gate l'IIONE 2-3464: In the high hurdles Grant Smith be Joe Cohen, Captain George Me- · and his running mate, q1~rk Gee Fritz Hawley, Bernard Salad, Shield are again slated to flmsh \Do~\ Orton, and Clem Finch. in the first two places, and will. Hawley and Cohen, McGee and team up later in the low hur~les Finch and Orton and Salad make in an attempt to keep the strmg uu~p~t~h~e~d~o~u~b~l~e~s~c~om~b~i~n~a~ti~o~n~s~. ;;;:;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;~ l11terested ill Schmectady lltlerested irz UNION Maurice B. Graubart. of victories in the hmdles un.- ;: broken. Wat'ren Gammons, who upset the dope bucket against Roches-· ter by beating his fellow h3;lf: PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. Ferry Street Schenectady, N. Y. miler, Jerry Neumann, will agam: run the 880 yard run. John Ross,·· Vi bert Fryer and Wally Hughes. will perform in the 440. lb;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~' The distance runners will prob· !.: The Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Watclz and Jewelry Repail'illg a Specialty Sticlunen 0Ilen Season \Vith Syra(luse Central High While :Nine Opposes V t. Junior College fn Return Game at 2 ~'Clock The only h01m athletic contests out cf the six which will ta 1\e place tommrow afternoon will be those played by the l1vo .fteshman S)Hing· sp0rts teams, laceosse and baseball. The former will inaug-urate their season. in a game with the Syl'a:cuse CentJ:ai'IIigh School, 'vhile the latter plays a return g<t.me with the Green Mountain Junim· Colleg·e nine. Both games are scheduled foe 2 o'clo·ck on tlte Library and Alex- allder fields. After more weeks of practice<!>---------------- t·han any other sports team on the· . ca:mpus the Union College fresh- If?· an e~tly lead by scoring in the man lacrosse team will get its first ust ft allJ.e. taste of interscholastic competition E:xtra-base hits were numerous, this aft..,rnoon wh..en it plays the Lebast clo1.1ting a homer, Legere, Syracuse Central Eigh School ten Jones, and Amazon, triples, and at 2 o'clock on Library Field. Riscoe, a double. It was a great Coach I•'red Wyatt, in spite of .game to witness, for it contained the not-too-hright outlook for the everything which makes a ball yeatlings, believe> that the home game great --hits, errors, an argu- team $hould talte rettibution for ment with the ump, sparkling the 19 to 1 defeat administered to catches as well as dismal flops, the fnshmen last year. The High bunts that worked to perfection, School team, with. the distinction stolen base-s, an<.l two double plays of having held the Syracuse Uni- by the home team. Jones and Am- vez·sit_y team to a 5-4 game in re- azon led the frosh batters, each cent ptuctices, offers a pt·etty stiff collecting tht'ee blows, while Dave opening contet.~t fot• the Garnet Yunich kept up his batting lead- cubs. ership by collecting two singles to The present Red team is not help the cause. One of the out- quite so strong as last year. It de- standing players on the nine, Yu- reatcd Manlius on.ly 10 to 1 this nich has consistently started ral- .;eason. The Union. frosh have not lies. ~~ w nnfu~nrt~ b lli~ ptactices thus far, defeating a con- glarnorate Glens ·F'alls ten, 10 to 5. Fwsh Stllrters Starling tomorrow afternoon for the Union frosh will be Mike Cap- piello at goal, Bill O'Connor at point, Sumnter :Iri.sh at cover point, Henry Clay at first defense, AI Borden at second defense, Joe Paul at center, Doug Blue at sec- ond attack, Fred Plpito at first at- tacit, Dick Burrell at outhome, and Wally Baker at inl1ome. Tltird Frosh Game In one of the wildest, most er- ratic games played h.ere in a long time, the freshman baseball team lost its second Kame to Draper High School Tuesday afternoon 19 to 10. Yielding fourteen hits along- with six el'rors, the Union men were unable to stem the flow of runs across the fourth base in the latter stages of the game and so dropped what looked to be a fai.rly close game in the early inn- ings. The second game of the weelt will be played tomorrow he:z'e, when the molln.taineers from Gt·ecn Mt. Jr. C<>llege arrive for the return game in the home-and- home series. They took the first at Poultney, Vt., 9 t<> 4. Draper Weil-Ilalauced Draper presented a well bal- an-<!ed team, loaded with tremen- dous hitting power, and got off George He Bartender says- On Your Way Home from the Show, Stop in to See Me for a Cool Refreshing Bever· age. COLD'S R.eswni·auit-'l'atp R.Mili-Dellcntosson The Draper lineup: Union (10) AB R II PO A E Meyers, 2b • .. . .. 3 1 1 3 2 0 Miller, cf ........ 4 2 0 2 1 1 .Jones, p, rf .... 6 1 3 2 4 0 T'homas, ss . . . . . . 5 0 1 1 3 1 Lubansky, rf, 3b . 5 1 0 0 0 1 Con troy, lb, p ... 5 0 0 3 1 2 Yunich, c . . . . . . . . 5 2 2 12 0 0 Amazon, 3b, lb .. 5 2 3 4 0 1 Roickle, Ib 5 1 1 0 0 0 Totals ......... 43 10 11 27 11 6 Draper (19) AB R II PO A E Riscoe, 3h 4 4 2 2 1 1 Legere, 21> • • .. .. 5 3 1 2 4 2 J!lttore, If . . . . . . . 2 2 o o 0 1 , 'I'erry, c . .. . .. . .. 5 3 3 7 6 1 !Grosso, cf ...... 6 3 3 1 1 0 !Hamil, :p .. • . .. .. 6 2 2 0 1 0 Sebast, 1!) . . .. .. 5 1 1 13 0 0 Christianson, If . . 5 0 1 1 0 0 San tore, ss . . .. .. 5 1 1 1 1 2 Totals ......... 43 19 14 27 14 7 We llcJVe the Finest DE LUXE MOTOR COACHES (Equipped with Radio) to be hwl In the Capitol District BE OONVINCED-OALL G. A. Welcome & Son Phone ~444 1171 Union St. CL.ARK & MCDONALD SCHENf,CTADV, NV 631 STATE ST. Recognized for Years of Good Service Schenectady Engrall'ing Co. Engr.avers · for the Conct>rdiensis 147 JAY' STREET Telepho11e 4-9002 MILK CREAM 1HE ACME BARBER SHOP Welcomes All UNION COLLEGE Students 509 UNION ST. NEAR.EST THE CAMPUS - BUllER EGGS Cloverland Crea,mery PHONE 2·4265 ICE CREAM COTTAGE CHEESE

Four Six Men Eleeted To Model Council Leonard., Denzler, and BUl'l{e Are Regular Delegates Hall Announces ~ix no<>w appointments were made to the Model Council of the League <>f Nation8, it was an- nuuncul by John IIa.ll '36, chair· man, to con-:~pensate fur the loss of the g-1 a<luating senior8. !<~10m this lot three we1·e appointed regular delegates_ They are William Leon- az·d '37, Robett Denzler '38, and \Valte1 J:3m·ke '39. The others, Wtlliam Burke '39, Paul Goldbe1:g '38, and Alfred Sei- gle '38, cue to act in the capacity of alternates, to serve when regu· lar delegates are rub8ent and to assist next spring at the Council meeting which will tal\e place on the earn pus. In playing host the college i,; o bligecl to appoint a sec- ! etary-g,•m·x·a,l to assist at the meetings, and it was dPcided to select R ichm d Cal'lton Snyder '37 to this post. Leonar·d is a resident of Sche- nectady and a member of the Philomathean Society. He has maintained a deans list average for tht·ee yea~::;. Robert Denzler, affiliated with the Theta Delta Chi fratemit y, has been as8ociated with the t ulCk squad during his ft'<>shman and sophomore yeat'S, and has bl.'en on the deans list for two yeats. The thild delegate, Burke, teo:ides in Cohoes and played in the backfield of the frl'shma n football squad. At a late! date the Council will conf<'l' in or<.lrr· to el<>ct a new chairman to succeed John Hall who gt adu.ates thi8 year . ------0 Colleges Fail to Teach (;ood \Vriting, Is Report t C'ont inued from Page 1) una nimou,; in dC'clating present ttallllll!'; tn wtitin!!: inadPquatc, ancl the itw l'>t igation into methods of 1Paehing indicatl's that the \<>xperi- mental • n:1rt hod has proved most beneficial Inquiti<'s were also made into the spt·cial fields of jom nalism and thl' teaehing of journalistic writing. ThP full set of six repm ts ron- tains the following title8: \Written Compositi<>n and Characteristics of l't•rsonahty\; \An Outline of an In- qUiry Now BPing l\lade at ::-;y,·arW'<' University\; 'Good Writing\; \CrP- utiVL' \V!iting\; \Classes m Jomnal· istic \Vriting and Jomnali8m\; and \Wrtt tt•n Compositton in AlllL'I ica11 Colleges,\ Dl'. Johnson, hl'ad of the field of Engl!,;h at Union, was until last y .. ar profpssot· of journalism and di~·prto1· of publicity at Symruse H1s p<'dugogir expel'ience began in 19lfi, when hP WPnt to Vas;;ar Col- i<'gP a>\ ptofrs,_;or of English nnd clirertCJl' of publiritv. He hrg-an his li.tPrary worl; a,; l'f')lnrt••t nnd<'r Linrnln ~tpffpns on thP old :-:ew Yotk C'ommPtrial Ad- \'et·tisf'r. On thP Pditm·ial staff of HarpPt' nnd HIM, and W. P. Dut- ton and Co, hl' was also editor of F!\'Ptyb\'l:v'c ~1ngm:inP. Prlitor-in- rhil'f r>f JudgP, and Pditor of th<' Bulleti11 of th•• Author',_; Leaguf> of Ameri~a Known uo onP of the be>:t after-dinn et· srwakPt·s in t hb; coun· !ty. hi' wa\ a fl'irnd of Mark Twain, 0. IIPnJ·y. and other literaty figure>s. Dr. Hartley is a prominent educa- tor in thP fi<'ld of English, acting a~ a n:aembet of t h~ RPgE\nts Com- mittee on English, the State Sylla· hll>' C'ornmittf'r nn Englbh, and the Nat ion al Council of Teachers of Engli'h rn thP lat!Pt olganization. \IH\ i\ :. n1•·n1h<'1 of t hP rurriculum rommtth·e and the rommittee on tt··t« ht r pr rpa1atinn A plofessot· of e<.lucation at Syra- cuse, D1. Hartley was educated al Obt•tltn O>llege, and Columbus, whet•· ,]I .. r·ect>l\·ecJ her doctorate. She is author of 'Tests in Intet·- pretatn·e Heading of Poetry,\ pub- li~h<'li 1Jy Columbia Vnivez-sity, and \Intere-sting Trails in Literature,\ a >{E'I ies of SC'hnol readers published by CluuiL·s fo..:. Mer11ll Company. ·---~- 0 -~- Phi I~eta Kappa Initiates 'fntmlmll, T~ tlw at Dinner Thursda\, :\hn ;, Two stu<.Ient~ W<'l<' tlltti;,t,·d t'nto thP socil'ty of l'h i B.,.. Ia Kapp.1 at a <.Imttel lwl<l at Hal<' llull<'S last uight, P1ofes· HH' :\lcJtt<>n (' StPWalt, sPCietary of tlw Umun 1 IW{IlE•I', announc<'d today ThP itHtilttioiW toolt placP in th€ far'ultv loUI1J.!P ~ho!'tlv aflc>r S p, m Tlw <t w!Pnt s in it iat E'd wen• Donald Tt umbull and Micllael Tvtl<n both '36. Following thl' CP!e- nionw-<. thP :12 mrmbe1s pre8· Pnt adjnumed to the dining hall for dt nnPr, and at seven o'cloclt returned to thP loungr to complete the buRtness meeting, which was conducted by Dr. S. Morse, presi- dent of the chaptet. Dt. Morse read o. rPport of a visi l to th€ mPPting of thP Middle Atlantic States lltstrict of Pht Beta Kappa at New Yor•k on May 2. --- o~---- Debate Postponed The radio debate with Cornell, origina.lly scheduled to take place Monday, May 11, in the Memorial Chapel. has been j)OStponed. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, 'MAY 8, 1936 Dornlitory Changes Fo;r the corning year:' the Comptroller's Office announces a n11mber of physical changes in the dormitories as w€11 as changes in policy governing their operation. The Old Gym D<>r= will undergo quite €X:ten- sive alterations which will in- clude an entirely new heating system. Each room will have a built-in closet and will be re- dece>rated. A new hot water heater for the showers was in- sta!l~d this past winter. 'l'hil:ty sets of new furniture have .been ordered which will mak.e possible the complete furnishing of the Middle Sec- Hans of both North and South College dormitories, first floor in the Old Gym Dorm, and about one-half of the remain- ing ro<Jms. There will be no radical change in prices for the corning year. One of the fundamental changes in .policy inva>lves the reservation of the first. floor:' of Old Gym Dorm and the Middle Section of S.ou-th College for incoming freslunen. This will enable the fres hnen to live together under adequate proctor supel'Vision during .their:' first year. Science Meeting Knau~ Anno~nce~ Garnet : Plans Announced Associate Edit()nal Boal'd I l Thursday, May 7.-Twenty-five : (Continued from Page 1) :members of the class of 19317 are ' associate editors on the staff of the,· ciE~ty for the Promotion of Engi- neering Education. Dr. Irving Lang- 1937 Garnet, editor-in-chief John ' muir, associate director of the G. E. B. Knauf announced today. Tl:le vol- ume will appear on the campus for Research Laboratory, will entertain distribution on or about May 20, ' with an illustrated lecture on \Win- 'he said. ' ter sports.\ The members of this year's asso- A technical and business session ciate board, all in the present jun-, will take place here Saturday morn- ior class, are: Frank Thorne, Vi- ing. There will be two divisions. 1 bert Fryer, Harold Friedman, Zyg- Dean J. W. Barker of Columbia munt Szczmbwwski, John B. Dow- University will lead the confer- ling jr., Casimir Ruszlmwski, G. ence on \Accrediting engineering curtis Stewart. schools.\ Jerome L. Cohen, Wilford LeFor- The delegates will have luncheon estier, Sherman Mills, John Kreusi, Saturday in Jackson's Gardens at John Bloom, Malcolm Arny, Robert which Dean Dexter S. Kimball of Everest, Henry Stephenson, James Cornell University will speak. The McKenzie, Wallace R. Hughes, two day meeting will then be con- Richard Kennedy. eluded with an inspection of the Rehmi Denton, Arthur Sherin, laboratories here at college, fol- William Potts, James Estrich, lowed by an inspection of R. P. I.' Harry Marra, S. Ralph Cohen, and at Troy. , Monvoe Fr0elich, jr. During the two days that the The retiring members of the edi- delegates are in business session,, torial board are Knauf; Julian V. there will be a special \ladies' pro-• D. Orton, Business Manager; Mar- gram\ for the wives of the dele- vin Katz, managing editor; and gates. Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox is in Frank B. Gatchell, photographic charge of the arrangements which editor. include an inspection of the WGY broadcasting station, luncheon and dinner at Hale House, a special \show\ at the \House of Magic\ of the General Electric Company, a tour through Saratoga Springs and luncheon at the new Gideon Put- nam Hotel at Saratoga Spa. Tuition Installments ---o--- CALENDAR 4:00 p. m.-Meeting of Executive Committee, Graduate Council, Graduate Council office. 8:30 p. m.-Schubert Club Con- cert, Memorial Chapel. Tomon·ow 3:00 p. m.--Fres hman Baseball, Union vs. Green Mt. Jr. Col- lege, Alexander Field. 3:00 p. m.-Freshman LaCrosse, Union vs. Central H. S., Syra- cuse, Library Field. 10:20 a. m.-Spring Meeting, Graduate Council, Trophy Room, Gymnasium. 12:00 m.-Graduate Council Luncheon, Hale House. Monday 11:00 a.m.-Radio Debate, Union vs. Cornell University, Memo- l'ial Chapel. 1:00 p. rn. - Union College Christian Association Meet- ing, North Colonnade. 7:30 p. m.-Spring Nig·ht, Jack- son's Gardens. Tuesday Diploma Fee Due at Bursar's Office. Senior Class Notice .All members of the Senior class are requested to report to the News Bureau as soon as pos- sible, in order to check their activ- ity records. CHARLES' Italo-Ethiopian Question Subject of Prize Debate Thursday, May 7.-The Italian- Ethiopian situation will be the genera:! subject of the Goodrich- Duane extempo11aneous prize de- bate which will take place June 4 at 8 p. m. in the Old Chapel, it was announced today •by F1rederick A. Wyatt, director of d€bate at Union. Carl Olson of Center Moriches, and Arthur Hepner of Brooklyn have been chosen to defend the af- firmative of the specific topic to be selected the night of the con- test. The negative side will be up- held by .the two winners of last year's debate, Duane Featherston- haugh and Richard C. Snyder. Your Guide In Buying Ice Cream T:l!e books in the Cornptrol- le!'s Office will be open for res- ervations will be held until .Tuly 1st, before which time the con~ract must be signed or the I\eseiv:ation will be cancelled. A ded·uction of $5.00 will be made on all contracts which are signed before September 1st. A $10.00 deposit is required at the time <>f signing the contract. This deposit will be applied on the first installment of dormi- tory rent. Lost-One 'f1()pcoa t The final installment of tui- tion for tlte seco.nd ltalf year Is due and must be paid on FRIDAY, MAY 15tlt at the Comptrollet·'s Office. The usual fine for late payment will be Formerly ED'S made for all payments made The Official Union College Bal'b~r JJ~ll.S£Y after May 15th. ror the past 25 yeat·s. Aslt any Th d uppet· classmen, they !wow. t1 e stu ent who left a tan top- The Comptroler's Office will obpaet·bruetl'o. rs. Schenectady's greatest coat In Hale House during Prom be open for the collection of week€nd Is asked to report to Mrs. fees on Friday from 8:30-11:45 con. S'l'A'l'E ANn DROAIIWAY ICE CREAM ·--~---------------------------B __ r_ig_g_s __ in __ t_h_e_L_o_u_n~g~e_. ____________ ~_A __ ._~_.~a~n~d~f~r~o~rn.~1-~4~:4:5~P~._M=:. ____ ~============================~~---------------------------- • What} • gozng on here • • . what:r happening in these 40 houses -the curing and ageing of leaf tobacco, that's what's going on. Thousands of hogsheads of mild ripe tobacco are under these roofs ... just lying here ageing and sweet~ning and mellow- ing for Chesterfield cigarettes. Like Rip Van Winkle, they sleep-the tobaccos getting mellower and milder for the cigarette th~t Satisfies. ® 1936. l!GG!l'J'T & MYIIU TOIMCCO Co, • a Iooo pound hogshead of leaf toba~~o Entertainments a Week WEDNESDAY, 9 P.M. IE. D.T.J LILY PONS with Kostalaneh: Concert Orchestra and Chorus FRIDAY, 10 P lh IE.D.Tl KOSTELANETZ 45 PIECE DANCE ORCIIESTRII with Kay Thompson and Ray Heothertcn and the Rhythm Singers COLUMBIA NETWORK \ Is Sc VoL LD ColleJ Payn From Latge Goo Displa Hatch A Boo I Union C sor of one of John abilia lht Hatch of announcet Ryan Fox be called lion of F to the cc collection not only E entire life record in spent on Much o1 display tt with the along wit college's among th of \Hom then \Ho was given of HarmE Mr. Willi! nectady, Payniana. In addil the colleg of other sheet mu which h! logued. A lop, in cl books als view of tt are for th iniscence~ of the the This is Hatch to year he I a portrai the Mom landscape has been in the No1 John H prodigy .sent to Ul fort to st fluence u Sch£ Fail~ With a negro sp ballads, mented b presented l!'riday e1 ence in tl Otero, co guest art Comin! week af Ote1 o wa ison, tlH sweetnes1 pitch in s,anding Graced . beautiful to advan ian Stre Marietta' encore. The m and the to be ra though the two together spiring 1 seemed I tice as i ged anc this true which c the even sounds. mances, have dor The \ Bot·nsch Tchaiko proved selectior the whc tions, th cult att

an- the de- 4 it e at ches, af- to con- e up- last y M • Wold Is New Exchange ~cholar· Col'lege Receive.s Payne Collection Vol. LIX., No. 58 ====-=--=-=:-:::::-::-:::~~===-=-=====-~~~~~~~~-=--=~~=----<~~==-==- -· =- UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, .\lAY 12, 1936 PRICE FIVE CENTS College Receives Payne Collection From Julian Hatch Hon(}red Psi Upsilon Wins 1 1 Spring Nigh.t Event. In Close Contest Temperatztre While College Hits 88 ~welters While the college sweltered in the heat last week-end the boilerhouse thermometer was 1 unning up the highest tem- peratuie 1·eco1'ded in many years. As members of the frosh athletic teams can testi- fy, Saturday was the hottest day, with an average tempera- ture of 75 degrees although thl:! highest point of the three day;; came at approximately 4 p. m. Friday Whbn the mercury reached 88. The average fm· the three days was 71.66, a figure which is 13 points high- er than the ·59 degree average on the Bursar's records fol' the conesponding days over a pe- riod of years. The exact fig- Ul'es follow: lt'liday, high 88, and low 55; Saturday high 87, and low 63; Sunday, high 81, and low 56. John S. Wold Is Selecte·d ' As New Exchange Student Large Collection Represent::s Good Cross-view of Payne's Life Delta Upsilon, Ka.ppa Alpha, t'hi l'si Offer Excellent Competition Membe1· of Class of 1938 \Vill Succeed Hasl{ell at St. Andrew's University ·as Sec()nd Union Representative in Scotland Displayed Last Summer Hatch Also Gives Quantity o'f Books and Music Not Catalogued Decision Delayed Judges RequiTe Rendition of Ex tm Song to Decide .Between Two Best John Schille1· Wold of Schenectady has been chosen from the class of 1938 as the second exchange student ft·om Union College to the ,University of St. Andrews, Scotl~nd, President Dix.on Ryan Fox announced today. MICHAEL E. FIORE -------------- ~ Wold will succeed Geor·ge P. Union College is now the posses- sor of one of the largest collections of John Howard Payne memm·- abilia through a gift of Julian Hatch of Somerville, Mass., it was announced by President Dixon Ryan Fox. The collection which will be called the Julian Hatch Collec- tion of Payniana has. been added to the college's already extensive collection and the whole represents not only a good cross-section of his entire life, but is perhaps the best record in existance of the time he spent on the Union campus. Much of the material was put on display this summer in connection with the Institute of the Theater, along with the greater part of the college's acquisitions. Outstanding among the latter is the first draft of \Home Sweet Home,' ' called then \Home Dear Home,\ which was given the college by the estate of Harmanus Bleecker of Albany. Mr. Willis T. Hansen, jr., of Sche- nectady, has also donated much Payniana. In addition, Mr. Hatch presented the college with two packing-cases of other items, mostly books and sheet music pertaining to Payne, which have not yet been cata- logued. According to Codman His- lop, in charge of the work, these books also provide an excellent re- view of the American stage, as they are for the most part personal rem- iniscences of actors and histories of the theater in this country. This is not the first gift by Mr. Hatch to Union, for during the last year he has presented Union with a portrait of Payne now hung in the Mountebanks Theater, and a landscape by Joe Jefferson, which has been placed on the overmantel in the North Room of Silliman Hall. Fiore '36 Awarded John Kruesi Prize ~cholar .. A.thlete Is Head of A8CE, Research Assistant, Sig·ma Xi Member Monday, M:ay H.-Michael E. Fiore of Schenect~dy has been named as the wmner of the Kruesi Self-1mprovement Prize for the year 1936, it was announced to- night by President Dixon Ryan Fox. Fiore, who has recently been ~warded a research assistantship m the college of Engineering at the University of Illinois for two years, an unusually long period for a graduate fellowship, has re- ceived numerous recognitions of merit in the past months. All a senior in the civil engineering de- partment, Fiore was elected as an associate member of the national honorary scientific society of Sig- ma Xi. He was the winner of the Horowitz prize which is awarded every year to the senior who has made the greatest progress in the course in building construction, and was one of the ten seniors to be given stage appointments at the coming one hundred and fm'ty-first commencement. Fiore has been in his senior year, the president of the Union chapter of the American Society of Civil Engineel's, and a member of the senior board of the student council, and is now a member of the senior class commencement program committee. He was awa1ded his letter in baseball last year and is a regular on the Yar- sity squad, playing second base. He won his freshman numerals in John Howard Payne, considered a cro~s country, and is a member of prodigy and problem child, was the band. sent to Union early in 1808 in an ef- Fiore is a member of the Alpha fort to Btabilize him under the in- Phi Delta ft ate1'nity and a grad- fluence of Dr. Eliphalet Nott. . uate of Nott Terrace High School. Schubert Club in Spring Concert Fails to Equal Past Performance Monday, May 11.-·-Be.fore a large ;:tnd enthusiastic audience of interested townspeople, faculty and students gathered about the gt·een under the Nott Elm, Psi Up- silon won the interfraternity Spring Night Song Contest in one of the closest contests ev~r staged in Jackson's Garden. First eliminating Kappa Alpha from the 1anks of the singers aft- er' each of the four fraternities en- tered had presented one of its own songs, the judges retained Delta Upsilon, Chi Psi and Psi Upsilon in the final competition to be de- cided by the singing of the Dutch- men's Song. The three judges, however, finding it difficult to de- cide between the qualities of two of the fraternities after this song, 1equired an additional rendition of \Come Now to the Campus,\ from Delta Upsilon and Psi Up- silon. Dbcussion High Discussion in the audience was seen to 1un high as the waiting for the judge's final decision, while dusk was slowly gathering in the grove, added to the tense- neBs .of the occasion. After the four f1·aternities had in the meantime chanted Dr. Richmond's song, \Down the Mohawk Vale,\ Dr. El- mer 1'idmarsh with the Day mterflaternity Singing Cup in his hand explained that the judges, basing their decisions fundamen- tally on the spirit of the fraterni- ties through the evidences of the work done by each society in pre- . paring the songs, and thl'Ough voice qualities, hannony, and the number of members participating, had finally chosen one of the two remaming contestant::; as the wm- ner-Psi Upsilon. Of the nine fraternities regis- tered in the contest Kappa Alpha, Delta Upsilon, Psi Upsilon, and Chi Psi were the only societies who appeared to s·ing in Jackson's Garden. The fraternal songs which were elected by the houses to de- termine their remaining in the finals after the t>limination of all but three wert>: \Bold and Ready\ by Psi Upsilon, \Our Hearts Are Thine, K A.\ by Kappa Alpha, \Old Gold and Blue\ by Delta Up- silon and \Fair Chi Psi\ by Chi Psi. ---o--- Dre Cadman Speaks On Campus Tonight 'The World at the Crossroads' Is Lectu1·e Topic of Noted Minister Dr. Samuel Parks Cadman, pas- tor of the General Congregational Church of Brooklyn and radio minister of the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ, will spealr in Memorial Chapel tonight at 8:15 on the subject \The World at the Ct·ossroads.\ The meeting is being held under the auspices of the First Reformed Church of Amster- dam. Besides being an eminent pastor, Dr. Cadman is an author of some repute, his first bool1, \The Vic- tory of Christ,\ appearing in 1909. Several others followed in rapid succession among which are Chai'les Darwin and other English Thinkers,\ \William Owen, A Biog- raphy,\ \Ambassadors of God,\ \The Lure of London,\ and his latest, \The Prophets of Israel,'' which appeared in 1930. Dr. Cadman is a lecturer and educator and in his leisure time a collector of old English China and Antique Furnitme. From 1911 to 1913 he Wa.B acting pre»ident of Adelphi College and also :;erved a term as President of The Fedeml Counci:! of Churches of Christ in America of which organization he became 1adio pastor in 1928. In the same year he was the l'epresent- u.tive uf the cleq,;y of New York at the 300th anniversary of the foun<iing of the firbt Christian church in that city, He has received the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity from Wesleyan (Conn.), Syracuse, New Ym·k, and Yale UniversitieB, and holds the degree of Doctor of Laws ft·om Bates and Rollins Col- leges. Colgate and Cnion Join Graduate Council Votes In Philosophy Seminar To HaYe Alumni College Library To Be Improved Thl·ough Gift From Bailey The p1oblem of adequate stack toom in the library, long a worry to the library officials, has been temporarily solved through the g-enerosity of Frank Bailey, treasurer of the college, it was re- cently learned. Refinishing and waterproofing of the library basement will provide space fOI' approximately 40,000 vol- umes. Study alcoves wi It be con- structed in the balconies and the offices will be so housed as to stop the annoying clattel' of typewrit- ters and conversation which at present echoes through the build- ing. Although not a permanent so- lution of the space problem, the forthcoming alterations will make existing facilities fully usable and will provide for normal growth dur- ing the next ten to twelve years. The generosity of Mr. Bailey has been responsible for many of the important changes and improve- ments which have taken place in ·the college during the past thirty- five years. -- ----· -·0---- Phormio, Comedy of Love Will Be Produced Friday A 1ollicking comedy of young love trying to find a way out of age's bad graces, \The Phormia,\ which the Union College play pro· J uction cour:;e will present Ftiday night, is the last play of the season for the group. Ditected by Edwa1·d L. Carroll, the piece i.; filled with intet esting dta~e \business sometime» a]J- ploaching acrobatic~ in strenuous- nc;::;. It is a translation fJOill the Latin of Terence, made by Fet·di- nand Helm, jr., of Schenectady. The lines have been tran.;lated into modern slang, and tell the ~tm·y of two young Athenians An- tipho and Phaedl'ia, who are ir{ love wtth Phanium and Pan1phila. An- lijJho suc·ceeds in marrying Phan- iun~. but without his father's con- .;ent, while Phaed1·ia -is balked in hio love by the slave dealer who owns the other girl. Meanwhile, the father::; of the two ?oys have made other plans, which n-.volve manying Antipho to his ~ousin, the child of a bigamous rnaniage. Both parents are there- ;ot e incet1sed by his action, and it taltes much maneuvering by Geta, a slave, and Phormio, a confidence man, tu bting the plot to its happy ...:onclusion. Haskell of Huron, South Dakota, in thil:l post, and will spend this summer and his juniol' year study- ing at the Scottish university and visiting other· British and contin- ental schools. The exchange of students be- tween Union and the St. Andrews was inaugurated last year by Pres- ident Dixon Ryan Fox and Sir James Irvine of St. Andrews, whose Univer•sity Court has just informed Dr. Fox that they will send a student next year to re- place Clark Beckett of Cardenden, Fife, Scotland, who will graduate at the 141st Commencement on June 8 with the degree of bache- lor of science in physics. Acco1·ding to a letter received from J. Andrew Bennett, secretary of the University Court, the ex- change has proved a gratifying success, and Haskell has made an excellent reputation for himself among his fellow students and among his pr-ofessors. A graduate of Hotchkiss School, Haskell ma- jored in Latin and English at Un- ion. He won his numerals as quar- terback on the freshman football squad, wrote a column for the Concordiensis. won distinction in the Mountebanks Players, and be- came active in the Assembly of the Model League of Nations and the Student Service Bureau. He was furthermore consistently named on the Tiean's List. Is Scholar and Athlete Wold, the new exchange student is the son of Dr. Peter I. Wold of the department of physics. He has consistently maintained a high average in scholarship and has been equally outstanding in athle- tics. As a freshman he was award- ed class numerals in hockey, and was the winner of the Wessel Ten Brueck Van Orden Prize for the beHt es»ay submitted by a member of his class. As a sophomore he won his letter in varsity hockey, and has played with the varsity tennis team. A member- of the sophomore board of the Student Council and the Glee Club, he is a graduate of the Taft Sch<Jol, where he VIas ac- tive in debating and athletics. He is affiliated with the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity as at·e Beckett and Haskell. Beckett, during his year at Un- ion, has become prominently asso- ciated with many phases of cam- pus life besides the field of phy· sics in which he is majoring, and has been Initiated into the Alpha Delta Phi f1·aternity and the Hale Club, honorary senior-faculty so- ciety. He has been twice honored as a spealrer in daily assembly. With a varied program of hymns, st1 angely enough was the best ren- negro spirituals, light opera, and dered, Especial credit is due the ballads, the Schubert Club, aug- accompanists, James Early an!l H. mented by the Troy Vocal Society, Townsend Heister, for their excel· presented its annual spring concert lent handling of the very difficult I!'riday evening before a large audi- piano and organ accompaniment. ence in the Memorial Chapel. Emma Miss Otero sang as her last Otero, coloratura soprano, was the group of selections four Italian love guest artist. songs. 'l'hese she handled better Satw-qay, May 9.-The third of Satm·day, Ma.y 9. Co-operation in Coming to the campus only a than any other pal't of her program, a series of intercollegiate forums the founding of an \Alumni Col- week after Rosa Tentoni, Miss the reason being that in these songs on social studies subjects was held lege\ by the Union College Admin-· Ote10 was bound to evoke compar- the two principal defects of he1· here yes~erdar and today. Six Col- istt·ation was voted this morning by i~;on, though not unfavorable. A singing, poor diction and laelt of gate Umverslty students ~nd an the Graduate Council at its reliular sweetness of tone and accuracy of dramatic ability, were minimized. instructo1: :-vere the pru·tiCJp_ants ~pring meeting in the Trophy pitch in cadenzas were the out- In the selections with English ly- with a stmilar. Unl~n group 1 ~ a] Room of Alumni Gymnasium. The Union Sigma Xi Chapter is Result Of Technical - Classical Jealousy s;anding qualities of her singing. rics Miss Otero's voice, except in r·ound table dlscW>sion on phllos- 1 p!Upo:;ed Alumni College would be Be,.ides high ideals, other me- Graced also with a brilliant and cadenzas. was rather harsh and oc- ophy. held at comm.encement time and. tives inspired the foundation in beautiful trill, Miss Otero used it casionally off key. \Detirminism and the Concept 1 would consist of special lectures for 1886 of an honorary society for sci- to advantage especially in the \Ita!- In comparison to the singing of of Causation\ was the title of a 1 graduates. ence students at Union. The prin- ian Street Song\ from \Naughty Rosa Ten toni, the chief critic ism paper prepared and delivered last , At the same time Cha!les N. Wal- cipal of these was envy of the Marietta\ which she was forced to that one can make of Miss Otero night by Van Vechten 'I_'rumbull i dron, secretary of the council, an- classical students for their honor encore. is that she lacked the fire and dra- '36, which the g10up discussed. 1 nounced that the college has been society, Phi Beta Kappa. Thus The union of the Schubert Club matic ability which the Metropoli- Harlow D. Osborne of Colgate was 1 presented wrth the collection of does Edwmd M. Cameron, '87 and the Troy Vocal Society proved tan star put into her renditions. the author of another paper .. dis- I John Howard Payne memorabilia writing in the latest issue of th; to be rather unfortunate. For, al- The reason of course is that Miss cussed at the round .. table, The J made by Julian Hatch of Summer- .Alumni Monthly describe the though well-trained and directed, Otero is obstensibly a concei't singer Paradox of Freedom. ville, Mass., une of the !a 1 ·gest in founding of the local chapter of the two groups did not blend well and the technique of the concert The group met today and dis- existence. Mr. Waldron also an- Sigma Xi. together and gave a rat~er. ur~in- stage tends to be rather more for- cussed \The Problem of Sub- nounced that the Graduate Council BE'fore 1880, he writes, Union spiring performance. Thea smgmg mal than that of the opera. H<Jw- stance,\ a paper prepared by K. has been made an incorporated lilte many other colleges held the seemed to indicate a want of prac- ever, Miss Otero might well have P. Smith of Colgate and \Sub- body. classical course as the only course tice as it was in many places rag- put more force into her presenta- stance in the Philosophy of 1 William H. Mandeville , 15 • was worthy of high recognition. But tablished at Rensselaer Polytech- nic Institute. There was keen dis- appointment that Union College the birth place of college fraterni~ ties, might not have been the cra- dle of a sdentific honorary so- ciety ... \ However the Union group communicated with that at Cornell with the result that the third chapter of Sigma Xi was founded hel'e. The key attachment to the emblem was added at the request of the Union group. ged and uneven. Especially was. tion without spoiling the effect. George Berkeley\ by CharlP.s I elected memb<\r-at-larg£' to succeed as engineering students felt their this true of .the tenor section from Together Miss Otero and the two • 37 . I A. E. Bishop ,03 , whose term ex- wo1k more valuable than that of which came during the course of clubs renderPd the Italian Street The members of the Colgatt> I pil·es this yt>ar. Douw F. Beeltman A. B.'s two independent groups the evening some rather unmusflcal TSohngb\ 'lfl~·om \Nlaaui'gt·yhtyandMJ~ar:-niegtetao.'f' group, led by Dr. Herman A. I was re-elected to succeed himself ass tltfal_Crtehdonmoat·ltfint·agtept·lnal.ntys. fiotr waa.sscitehne- sounds. J udged by its past per or- e n mnce, c r ' G J G d t C · 1 . t' . 11 d mo Brautigam, were eorge erome, ra ua e ounctl member of the fortune of M·r. Camer·on to be \em- mances, the Schubert Club would the so ols s voice was we e n- Harlow D. Osborne, James Bald· athletic board. have done bet ·ter to sing alone. strated in the selection. The chorus K P S ith W'Jl' B h barrassed by being invited to sit t 1 h d th win, . . m . 1 Iam us • Among the appropriatt'ons made In w1'th b th \ The \Son· g of the Steppes\ ·by accompanimen a so s owe e h B j o . D El T .d h and Jo n run es. by the council was one of $500 for \The t 11 h · Bol·nschein, an arrangement of ability of · r. mer 1 mars as wo sma er groups avmg .. di t · Robert S.. Langer, G. Curtis I the use of the Student Placement at last combr'ned and pez'fected Tchaikovsky's \Marche Slave, a rec or. ti F th , fall conce 1 ·t of its 1936 37 · Stewart,, Charles Reeves, and Van Bureau. A resolution was passed on their plans, they lea1·ned to the 1 ·r P roved to be the most in teres ng or e · . - i th Scllubert Club Will have Vec.hten Trumbull constituted the · 1 the death of Ludlow Melius '96. The consternatt\on that a s1'nu'lar so- selectl ·o·n on the program. Runn ng season e B h Qual ·tet outstanding Union delegation. Professors Har- selection of a design for a gold ciety had been formed· at c· o1 ·nell the whole gamut of hUman emo- the ra ms ' ·' P '1' St I d 'ff' 1 . t s its guest a 1 ·tists old A. Larrabee anu ht 1p an- alumni medal was left in the hands a few weeks earl 1 'er and a chap- tiona, the song was the most 1 1- voca ts s, a · · d d R F ley also participate . of the exec.utive committee. ter was at that moment being es- cult attempted by the group an · • But, continues· Mr. Cameron, to found a society is one thing to lreep it going is another. But' the society found a patron saint in Professor Charles C. Brown, C. E., who through heroic efforts kept it alive during the first perilous years. \It would not he assuruing too much,\ concludes the writer, \to say that the enthusiasm of that little group from the Union Col- lege class of 18&7, intent upon com- pelling recognition of the high calling of the scientific student inspired subsequent classes and the University itself to make Sig- ma Xi a national institution.\

Two ~irnsis THE GONCORDIENSTS, TUESDAY, MAY 12,1936 convincing ourselves that there can be no I better colleg-e we have won half the battle. · All that remains is t0 show others the1·e is no other one. Let the :Grecian Scream t Words About Music BY ARTH OR \VALLACE HEPNER \II Causa Persa Parole ilssai\ FOUNDED 1S77 Well, it begins to look a.s if I'll • be able to sleep nights soon. I hate me this is .a difficult question to. ~============;;;;;;;;~~ 1935 Member 1936 1=1ssociated CoUeeiate Press Distributor of Co~ee>iate Dit)est :-)ul~ a uti ~x.clunl\'c IIUliuual atlvt:a ti:-Jllt:; n::plt:~t.:utatt Vt;, ;\,,\TII•.>·II. ,\!J\'1-:lt'l'I::;J:\-;G ::ll·;H\'I·t'l:;, h•u 4:!U ~\latli~un AVcJJllt= !\ew Yotl< CilY C:lucugu - Hu~-Jion - :::)uu I•'HtllchslO - LLJ~ Aug~lt::ti J '<HliuuLI - ~eulllt 'l\lle utfil:i!ll uewo;papel' of the ~:~ruuen'ls of Unwu College. Pul.Jlio;heu 'l'uc:H.h1.~·s anu l•'litluy~ ttuuughuut tile cuilege yea1·, t•xc.:e!Jl uunng Chi i:;!HJa:> aiiLi sr•ring rec.:es::;e::>. · to admit It, but I'm afraid it's go- ing to be a relief that is mutual to all conce1ned when this last modi\ HONOR TO THE ST. ANDREW SCHOLAR. cum of my efficacious moronity is concluded. (And nuts to T. S.-1 didn't get bhat crack last Friday, To the recipient of the St. Andrews schol- but knowing T. s., :I'll bet it was a al'ship goes OlH' heartiest cong-ratulation. The dirty one>. As a matter of fact, there are a good many people I· .college can bestow few higher honors than -'lhould like to call names and say giving to some dese 1 ·ving junior the opp· or- nasty words to, and this being my last column, I could get away with tunity and privHege to study in one of the it, too. on the other hand, I am so oldest of the EUl'Opean insti.tu tes of learning·. filled with the benevolence of hu- man kindness that I could not con- Not that this uinversity • has a better ceive of vitiatiNg the equanimity which now exists about me. I freely scholastic standing, not that its tradition is exculpate, exonerate, absolve and more imposing, Llut the fact that it presents acq.uit any .person or persons whose remarks have been 1ibelous, .defam- decide, and I should say offhand· that there were many points in favor of the porcupine. * \' .. It would seem. from the way that the city is clamping down upen our chief ef police that the \open door\ policy is about to go out of effect. .. The red ·lights won't be burning much longer, lads. The villain of a play in progress at an .Aiban:y theatre was unable to be on deck last Saturday eve- ning, and so the presentation was postponed. And, naturally, the \curse you\ did not ring that night. .. 'In Review As the year drawli to its close it is time to wax sentimental. But . this old tradition is a repulsive p1ospect. The best it·can do is fash- Ion a pool of lugubrious teat·s. Therefore it is .perferable to look at things in retrospect than to recol- lect. Music on t·be campus was gen- erally of the same pattern which hal:l prevailed during the past few yea1s. There were ·the weekly organ recitttls w·ith the usual run of solo· ists, the students' concert, and a few substitutions by Helen Hen- 1 'u!Jiicutwu Ufllcc, The l.iazelte l'r e:;s, :S:H Stule ::ll., ::>cllenectully, N. Y., Telephone 4--l.J-ll to an individual the occasion of coming· into. atory and or unfavorable to me. Go contact with other persons o.f radically dif- thou on they way, brother, and the . devil take tlle hindmost, 'n' remem- ferent personalities bring-s to it its real ber, do unto others as if you was \Perhaps I this up,\ as he looked at Prom. shouldn't have brought my father said when shaw and Mr. Zorian at the organ. me the morning acfter. Dr. Tidruarsh's p1·ogram::> contained * .. J.o;ule!ell at the :-:iclJcuec.:tady Pu:;t Office as ::;cc.:uiH.I Cia::.~ .Mail Malter worth. the others, • • >!> Oh yes, we discover rather be- latedly that Prom night marked brother Nels Foote's first venture into Sassiety. Congrats on the de- but, Nels, and ·tet's hope that you don't get debut ends of things from ' ' - Sui.J,cJ I!Jtiun priee l•'i ve eeull:! u copy; $3.UU a ~' ea1; tleli ve1 cti any wlie1 e !:~~he ~__I'! It~~ l:lt~tes. c;ull~lial Hoo~us, :::!liiiman Hall, Uuiuu College ~~~:;. 'l'eieiJliOue, Scheneclally, 4·0133. __ _ Senior Board Norman H.. ::ltewart ........... Editor-in-Chief Cht P~t Ludgt:~4:-t.i5~7 s. H.alph Cohen ............ , . Managing Editor t~o .•1. ~. ::;. c.- ·l-ll'ia Fenton A. Gage ........ , ......... News Editor The cultu1·e which abounds in greater di- versity and intetlSity in Er1gland and Scot- land than in the United States will easily permiate his thoug-hts because the contact with it is f1·om first hand, and will, there- fore, be more readily absorbed. He will de- rive from his travel an education foreign of Milton D. ~~d~!l~ 1 :: 1 :~ 1 .'. ~~~~~~~. 1 .-:~~orts Editor l '~.>lta Cp::-duu lluu~e-4-1~:.!2 Daniel B. Wohl. ......... Cilculation Manager • book lem·uing, but equally important. From the interesting correspondence of George Kuvpa :\u ll\Utit::~-1- i':t.n Hube1·t 0. Nelson ........... Business Manager 1''-al'Jia .Alt>lta l..uUge--4~~1.2~ _______ _ --- - Junior Boa1·d ASSOCIATE Edwanl Barry Julius Bundgus \Vtllard Dean H.o bert Doig EDITORS Robert }ferguson Hyman Enzer Henry Hal tmann Melvin Muroff · Haskell, the American student, we gather, becomes acquainted with some extremely unique experiences, mostly strange customs which give him an invaluable insight into the people. This obser·vation cannot help from being most beneficial to him. Carl T1ahman - ~------ -- - SoiihomOreBoafd~~ -- ---· -- Assistant Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, E. Houghtaling, P. Huwplll ~y. r'. Sui del, D. Taft, R. Walter, 1-t.. Morgan, D. Miller, J. O\Brien B. Rathbun, J. Shelman, J. Smith Issue Editors Rouert Ferguson Robert !Jmg Julius Duntlgus A~istants P..ulJL·lt Walter Fred IIequemutJUI\g --~--~~~\--~---- ---- ---~~====- Tueoduy, May 1:!, 193t:i FOR ALMA MATER \He is thl' \l'IY ltwdel uf u. muuel'll cullt:~e }Jresident.\ In his widespn•ad peregrination,; Prexy has estaulisht~d the name of l!nion Sl 1 11leWhUt in the proportions that auuunued in the days of lk Nott. This enviaule record he has ac- cumpli:shed in the short period of two yeat·s, traveling in almost every state and having puulished in every important newspaper in the countJ'Y account::-: of his va1·ying activity. His has ueen an era of pt·osperity amidst times which commonly are called depression days. His administration has awakened us to realize what a college president can do to ~nlist the enthusiasm and interest of a popu- lous generally supposed to be too engrossed in nun-academic affairs. How the prestige could have sunk so low We anticipate tile arrival of the Scottish representative with no less inte1·est than we had for that of Mr. Glark Beckett. His visit has left us with the highest 1.·egard for those of his race, and we hope when he returns home that he will beat· the well wishes of eight hundred Union students and he1· thou- sands of alumni. ARRIVAL OF ART Anything whicl1 remains Yelatively con- stant in the t•apidly changing· order of things is worthy of a pedestal where it can ue cited as one pet~manent land mark in the chaotic movement of the millions of elee- trons an.d protons composing the universe. If the thing is a work of art which is of continual value because it catches something common to all ages, it is called a classic. Thus gTeat literature, compositions of mu- sic, and masterpieces of a.Tt which retain their high standing are those which appeal not to one particular class, one geographical district, or one period of history. They are the common property of allrnen everywhere. So few are these permanent strands which sct·vc as a common bond among human be- ing·s that those which do exist should be carefully preserved. One of these bonds which serves everyone everywhere is music. Every member of a chorus feels a strong union with the group, and ~nusic is a lan- guage which knows no racial bounds. Some- thing of the feeling· of creating- art is also experienced by the participators. The as- cendency from niaterial existence which is too common in modern civilization gives something which surpasses all other means of escape to both sing-ers and to the audi- Quote from Prof. Ed. Carroll: \There are a hell of a lot of nice people in che Civic Players,\ Tsk, LSk, Pro~essor. * \' * I went to church Sunday morning and was witness to a most embar- rassing experience. The reverend announced \The topic I wish to say a few words upon this morning is 'The Cont·ribution of a Mother.'\ Just as he finished the sentence, a baby in the rear of the church let out a squall that could be heard for blocks around. Followed business of glaring looks, amused glances, quiet sniclters, and hurried exit. .. * * The same minister was responsi- ble for this weighty bit of informa- tion: \You can say what you will about men and about women, but the fact remains that men and women are fundamentally differ- ent.\ You might note that dow11 for future reference if you haven't reached the 1·ight stage yet. Per- haps some of you have already dis- covered the fact. * * * I have noticed that most often after a brau party the night before, the boys seem terribly tired and slothfully sleepy. This is, I presume, to be expected. Was it not Shakes- peare who said \Beer today and yawn tomorrow?\ * * * True to form: The grapefruit manufacturer's wife who opened a can-can joint which gave the cus- tomers an eyefull. .. * * Zoologists have said that the lion is the handsomest of animals. To now on. * \' \' And here, boys is some last-min- ute philosophy that might help you to get along with the world a little more easily: Spare the rod and spoil the fish. Don't count your bridges before they gathe1· moss. (Advice for C. E.'s only). Uneasy lies the king until the ace is out. \ * * From the Union Star: \They coveted his fa;rm because they dis- covered .gold upon it, they brought about the death of his wife, and they hung his brother for the theft of a mule which he did not com- mit.'' Ah zne, such Is life! * * * Our Mode~·n Version: Jack Sprat could eat no fat, His wife could eat no lean. Each did his share And got nowhere Because of too much worryin'. My advice would be-- It's plain to see- To drop the flesh And start afresh, With each a vegetarian. * * .. Po me If it weren't for all the neckin', There would be mucll less car wreckin.,. .. .. * And so to dedicate myself to the good of humanity-no more Col- umns. G. .... ~:Te::::~:=~=!:~. ..11 Now Showing ]I The average freshman who en- ~============;;,-=;! ters Amherst College is an habitual conse1·vative. His funds of ideas is Li-ttle Lm·d Fmmtleroy ordinarily limited to those unques- A good while ago, as time is tioned beliefs and prejudices that measured in the short span of hi::>- have been dinned into him by his tory that is the motion picture's school or family or church. Amer- Mary Pickford played the preco- icanism, Capitalism, Protestantism, cious child from Brooklyn who falls Respectability-such are the pillars heir apparent to the Earl of Dorn- of instinctive faith. court. And once more the story is Of all the things that Amherst being unfolded, only now the little attempts to do, perhaps the most. Lord is being played to type by impo!'tan t is its liberalizing effect. Freddie Bartholomew and the idiom on minds so prepared. An intellec- · is of the sound rather than the si- tual shakeup is one of the vital fac- lent screen. tors in an academic experience, at Second point of general interest least during the first two or three after that of remaking an old opus, years. The upperclassman recalls is the fact that Dearest, Lord the courses that have radically al- Fauntleroy's mohter is being played tered his fixed beliefs-a history by Dolores Costello, who left the course that first made him ques- screen at the top of her career to tion the sanctity of modern nation- be wife to John Barrymore's role of alism, an English course that re- father. Now that the chase of vealed to him the shams of the sen- Elaine Barry has broken up the timental approach to literature, an domestic drama, Miss Costello, economics course that ga.ve him a showing signs that she is no longer vision of a better world than could an ingenue. returns to the films in possibly exist under the status quo. a fortunate role. Such things become part of the tex- ture of his thought, create In him a healthy scepticism and radicalism, and supplemented by occasional stimulating \bull sessions\ with fel- low students or members of the fac- ulty, begin to make of him a ra- tional human being. As to the .picture itself, the out- standing quality that is apparent to the audience is the slowness of the action. This is attributable to the original story by Frances Hodgson Burnett which flows gently in the best Victo!'ian tradition. But as a concomitant to the lethargy of pace one is conscious of a wholly absorb- ing genel'Rtion of atmosphere that is more t.han compensatory for the pace. the query, \where Ls Union,\ was not uncom- tuon \\e cannot imagine, Lut the reason;:; must reflect to those closely associated with The series of lectures on Marx- ism that is being held on successive Thursdays is an effective contribu- tion to such a process. They pre- sent in an adequate and sympathe- ence. tic form a body of doctrine that is it. The ::>tudents themselves are to blame. Perhaps some sentiments such as these abhorrent to the average under- Acting is uniformly good. Bar- tholomew carries a long role more than welL Guy Kibbee and Miss Costello are as the parts indicate they should be. To anyone not given to gasping over the perform- ances of child actors, the treat of the picture was C. Aubrey Smith's work as the crochety Earl of Dorin- court. The photography is note- worthy for a rare Intelligence in avoiding th.e usual cliches of light- ing and movement. N t · f tl tl b d 1 graduate. Of course some are prop- 0 ll1 requen Y · 1ey erate one P 1ase or were the reason fOl' the founding of the in- agandist In nature. But they must another of the college, the lack of socl'a·l tel..~~I·atern't t t At l t be such if they are to combat at all i I Y song con es • eas once a successfully an opposing philosophy !Jl'Ulllitwnce, pruf~:;::;ur::>, athletic standingt:~, year, a large pa1t of the student body be- which it is the business of every conservative institution in the coun- and in fact all that was associated with comes music-minded. While it may detract try to preach. They will probably Union. They did this because they had lost somewhat .from the v~lue that competition ~~n:C~~!ef~a~i:~ ;::~?\~~~u;~~~ f . . had to be Introduced, It was probably neces~ ceed in revealing to the average a1th lll the colleg-e, they were no longer sary At this tim f h • d' student the stirring idea.llsm and. d • e 0 year, . owever, m l·· trenchant argument that lie behind p1·ou to be desig-nated as Union men. viduals and groups may be heard singing not the usual scornful epithets of \red\ Therefore to keep apace to the work of in preparation for a cup but because they or 'Communist,\ they will have ef- fected a fund'amental liberation of Dr. Fox we hope the students, and to be enjoy it. If competition results in bringing his mind. ' t 1 t.h ld · • - This is not a plea for Communism effective it must be sincerely inculcated, music 0 more peop e an -wou ordmanly or class violence. •It is a plea for make themselves feel proud of Union. Go be in~erested, it is a wo~th~ means. An :x- ftot~n~ ~~e~o~~~n~irih~~o~~~g.J~: presston of art, even as hm1ted as fraternity radicalism, a questioning of all ex- out and tell your friends you go to Union, group singing may be is (}Tie of the bonds !sting Institutions, d~ring college d h 't ] 't d 'd' . . ' . days. It has been satd that only an w en you say 1 mace 1 soun n Jc- whtch has existed throug-hout higher educa- young men can be radicals; we are ulous to ask where the college is located. By tion since its beginning young only once: Carpe Diem. • -Amherst Stndent. While the picture is solw enter- tainment and falls into over-senti- mentality UJlOn oocasion, it Is likely to please because of Its atmospheric verity and the work of its actors. Upon exhibition at the State over the week end was another remade picture, but its prototype was not nearly so well known as the dupli- cate is already. \Joaquin Murrietta\ was the name of the older film and the biography of that man forms the batik: story for \Robin Hood of El Dorado.\ The title Is a misnomer, for the the same kind of programs which he has been known to develop- with an accent upon Bach, the French composers, and ·items like Liszt's \Liebestraum.\ The Christ- mas prograrn of carols attracted three capacity audiences on the same Sunday. And the last concert of the scheduled season presented the novelty of Dr. Tidmarsh play- ing the Brahms' Horn trio with Edward Rice, violinist, and. C. Dai·· win Friss '27, hornist. The Glee Club had a successful tour, socially and musically, and sang with gusto upon various Fri- day occasions in daily assembly. Unfortunately, the local concert of the Glee Club, given recently at the Mohawk Country Club quarters, was missed by many students be- cause of the admission charge. Re- ports have it that the concert was thoroughly enjoyed by all who at- tended. The choir provided a signi- ficant contribution to the beauty of the Sunday services. To some ag- nostics it was far more comforting to listen to the choir than to the biases and p1·ejudices of the Sunday preachers. In fact, were it not foP the inspired performances of our choir those Sunday morning which compensated the daily \bolts\ would have been an unmitigated bore. The string quartet cintributed to our musical life with one concert in the Chapel. They played with enthusiasm a.nd a genuine devotion to the!!' work. In April they pe!\- formed downtown at St. George's Church a11.d the work of an entire year was manifest. It is regretable that the quartet were not accorded another opportunity to perform In Chapel this semester. In their place we hear'd the brass quartet rather frequently. Their concerts as well as the pel'iodic appearances of the college band were appreciated and accepted as a mark of our cultural life. They played to audiences whose enthusiasm matched thei• own and showed that several in- stl'Umentalists like William Hook '38, trumpet, have a talent which might be worth cultivating. Not many accepted the avail- ability of the Tuesday afternoon Capeheart concerts. This is no one's fault but their own. They could have familiarized themselves with music which has made its mark. Those who did capitalize upon the opportunity had many an afternoon of serene pleasure. Add to all of this the concerts of the Schubert Club, the Thurs- day Club, and the Civic Music As- sociation with their excellent solo- ists and you have a rather com- plete pictare of music for the stu- dent of Union College. It is a modest list but full of opportunity to hear music of all kinds. Of course it might not fit the de- mands of a finicky seasoned con- cert~goer who must have the New York PhiLharmonic Orchestra, the opera, Heifitz, and Schnabel all in one week, But it unveils the mys- teries of the scores themselves, no matter the quality of the per- formance. While your- correspondent might have had certain predilections and opinions <>f how music should be rendered a.nd by whom, every man is entitled to his own belief and with this last effort he offers a pipe of pea.ce to all who have been offended. moving spirit of Murrietta was a kind of unreasoning, fanatical re- venge upon Americans which he sought for the death of his wife. The story is not a new one, but rather is a true one and in that lies its strength and weakness. There are many admirable things about the picture and if you saw It very likel:y you were more than pleased by it. But equally there was the realization that it could have been much better. There was no end of good direction and cam- era work. Acting by Warner Bax- ter and a. new-comer, .Ann Loring was adequate; but the romanticiz- ing of what was a grim story spoil- ed the rea.! strength of the picture. This department was delighted by the editing, which was superb In places, but slightly let down by the whole picture, thouhg it was above average definitely, J. B. D. Nint: Ver11 Batieba:ll cu.se, T1·J urday After deft ·clay afterno m.ent on A' Garnet basE Trinity Coli they lost : tenth innir four singles .against the cha;rged wil b.e relieved ninth with The Syrac venge for the Garnet at the Salt only .fom· drove in b victory. The ·ered from hie with E ·Lambeth a run double was beautif scored the 1 plus some Syracuse itl initial inni1 run was g two stolen Outside c Harry Mar .played gooc wold was ' tlown sixtet 'rhet'e was .game, swell 'ing aJumii sweltered a1 era! showe< team's first Trlnit: Lloyd Wa ·net on .Sat1 brilliant pit eight innin hits, and c pinches to . sophom.o1·e the mound giate conte m the ninl scored and and third called in fr he and AI shifted to , ence in t Wrul touche tied the ga1 struck out the rally. over the wi when Gris· batter, wh1 stealing se vanced on Union ou nine to six errors to T net was 1 pinches, as part of thE CadwalladeJ second a..s singles wi Brown the: t•otta groUI end the up Eng! The gam ing slde!igl the brilliar the sixth i1 were on th were no 01 two men a fly out to plate. Anol was that c took place tenth betw and which membei's o; activities w Complicatio slid into F to be mo1 gusto for 1 Union's 1 Hamilton < of the rem be played that will Rochester, Alumni in Unlon- Fiore, 2b .. Mar·ra, ss . nuseherer. I Griswold, p Cadwaller, ! Stevenson, c Brown. lb . Lambeth, rf Murrota, cf Brandow, rf Totals ... Syraeuse- !';lamosser, 1 G. BrGWn, 3 Bradley, ss T BA ~ UNI 5( NEARE

it But k at gen- hich few !I; the like the play- with Dar- and Frl- of the s be- Re- was at- of ag- the for our to with pel'- place well the and ural thei• in- Hook no They e its talize c As- solo- com- stu- is a Of de- con- New the in mys- elves, per- and be man and a have a re- he wife. but lies it than there could was cam- Bax:- spoll- cture. by rb In the D. THE CON\CORDIENSIS TUESDAY, MAY 12, 19~6 N .•. ine. Spli·t·· S Two Contests, . 1 I Union sticl\men succumb Ver -w.aont Bow·s to ·Trackmen ·•'---=='N=TR=A= 1 M=U;;:::;;RA=Ls=d· . To swarth~ore Squad Jill ·- The Union !!tickmen lost their Intramural ']'rack Meet. second ~traight contest Satut•day, when a veteran Swarthmore squad H~ehall Team Beats Sym- cu.se, Trintty Wins 4-3 Sat- urday in Extra Inning Tracl( Team Wins Third Mel't Gaining Eleven Firsts In 89Y2 -36% Rout The spring intramural track meet got under way yesterday, and after the trackmen had .zeturned to theit· fraternity houses and dormitories, nur::>ing stiffened leg musole,;, sore backs, :;cr<J~ped joints, not to men- tion several upset stomaches, the After defeating Syracuse on Fri-. Winning every first place but P.:!l Upsilon ft•aternity was· found ·day afternoon in a return engage- three, the Union track and field to oe well out in front having ac- ment on A'lexander Field 6-3, the team scot·ed its third con~ecutive cumulated 24 poln ts as compared to Garnet ,baseball team journeyed to' v1 ctory, when it swept over Ver- tho::;e of their nea.re,;t rivals, Sigma Trinity College on Satut·day where. mont University last SatUJ day at 'Chi who had garnered 16. South they lost a 4-3 decision in the the visitm·s .field to the tune of 891 ,~. Cellege was third wlth 11, Phi Delta tenth inning. Griswold scattered to 36%. - Theta and Beta Theta Pi fourth fou~ singles over the nine innings · Jerry Neumann running his best with 10, and Alpha Delta Phi fifth .agatnst the Orange, but he was· half mile race of the year brokE: with 7. charged with the Trinity loss, as the tape in 2:03.2 seconds. Ross of Psi Upsilon led by vittue of the he relieved Lloyd Waters in the th G ninth with Union leading 3 _ 2 _ . e at·net was second follow\d b:r three first place,; they had taken. hts teammate Gammon~. Vibert ·Gatchell won tha shot put, Baker The Syracuse win was ample re- F h .'Iyet· s owed much improvement the 220, which incidentally was run venge for the 4-1 licking which m the 440 when he edged out in the slow time of .25 because of the Garnet suffered two weeks ago Johnny Ross to win in 51.2 seconds the eliminating heats which occur- at the Salt City. Besides allowing In the dashes Johnnie Glen no:;etl. red just before the finals and con- only four saf11 blows, Griswold, out Sherman Hhst, breezing alont; sequently exhausted the runners, drove in two runs to insure the for the 100 yurd in the space of lL ant! their four man team which vict<>ry. The other runs were gath-' ,;econds flat. Hhst, howevet·, came took the half-mile relay, beating ·ered from Jimmy Marotta's dou- bac·k and defeated him in the 220 their closest rival Sigma Chi. They '):Jle with Ernie Brown and :Doug· which he did in 22.4 seconds. also took second and third in the Lambeth aboard, and a hit-and- Bud Budzyna and Bud Ross oi 100 when Burrell and Miller follow- run double by Cadwallader, which the Catamount Institution both ed Endicott of Sigma Chi to the was beautifully placed; and which broke colleg-e records, the latter tape, the time being 10.6. Endicott scored the last two runs. An error, ,;uccumbing however to Leon Nag- also took second in the 220. plus some timely hitting, gave· usze k' G d' ws 1, · arnet 1scus throwet Among the other stellar athletes Syracuse its first two runs in the who heaved the dioc 133 feet 01 p initial inning. The final Orange Lhree feet further than the Vern'tont was omatti of South College '\vho run was garnered on an error, iJ B d B d came in fi1st in both the 60 yd. high oy. u u zyna won the javelin hurdles, the time of which waw 8.8 two stolen bases, and a single. thtow fo h' h h 1 ~ . r 1s orne sc oo , set tin~ and the .pole vault in wht'ch he best- Outside of the two et·rors by for t th d 1 e new recor of 182 feet ed Vandecar of Phi Delta Theta, Harry Marr~t, the Union team J 1 4 inches. ' . played good ball. For after Gris- G S . Waldron and Bell, vaulting to a 1ant m1th who made the ex- height of 9 feet. wold was warmed up, he mowed cellent time of 15.8 in the 120 high down sixtean consecutive batters. hm dies, took a third in the fast 22 c The remaining contests are to be Ther·e was a large crowd at the low hurdles. Huber Duley, Ver- 1·un off today, .game, swelled somewhat by visit- mont hurdler, took the obstacle 100-yard dash-- Won by Endicott, 'ing alumni, which alternately race in 25.2 seconds with Clark Sigma Chi; Burrell, Psi Upsilon, sweltered and cheered, and in gen- Shields of Union clo~e behind him. second; Miller, Psi Upsilon, third; era! showed appreciation for the Smith, Beta Th.eta Pi, fourth; learn's first win of the season. Hnuuuarles Riggs, Beta Theta Pi, fifth. Time Trinity Wins in Tenth l~ll-yurd hig:h hurdles - Won L. 10.6. Srni lh, t•uiou: Shithls t•niou se(·on<.( · Lloyd Waters toiled for the Gar- l'allm•1, v~rmuut, Ihil·j_ Titu~ u :1~-~- ' 220-yard dash-Won by Baker, ,net on .Saturday and turned in a Juu.ya.lll dash--\\'uu uy Uleu, l'~ttuu; Psl Upsilon; Endicott, Sigma Chi, brilliant pitching performance for llu ~~. l tuuu, ~t<'utnl ; !Jut .. y \' e 1 n 10101 seco-nd; Thompson, Chi Psi, third; eight innings, allowing but five thiJ·u. Tim~ u :JU. · • Annese, South College, fourth. Time hits, and coming through in the , llue-mile run.- Won by J3a::;letlu, .Z5. P inches to prove his mastery. The 1 - 111011 : lJeh ... r, \ermout, ~\\ 011 <1; Jeults. 6[}-yard h1'gh hurdles-Won by \ t\rmuut third. Time 4 :41.~. sophomol'e hurler, who worked on Pornatti, South College·, Derrich, . HU·yanl tluHh - \\'on uy l•'ryer. the mound in his first intercolle- t \\\'; !(u~\- t; 111011 , seeou<.l; .:\Ia.-:\ltl Beta Theta Pi, second; Estrich, giate contest Saturday, weakened Llll, \'.-rmuul. thin!. Tune u :::.1.2. Sigma Chi, third; Schultz, Phi 111 the ninth. One run had been .2~11-~attl lu~> hunu .. ~-\\'un by l>uley, Sigma Delta, fourth. Time: 8.8. scm·ed and a runner on the second \ U'Inout: Shield~. t'nion. ~ecuud; Shot Put-Won by Gatchell, Psi and third · when Griswold was ::-llllllh, l'niun, thirtl. Time u :~5.2. ll d · f th tf' ld h . 'l'.wu-rnile run \\' 011 b\ ll•l\\ ke~. Upsilon; Chapin, Alpha Delta Phi, ca e tn rom e ou 1e , w ere 1 L ' sec~nd ·, Rt'ggs, Beta Theta Pt', h d b uluh ; um:-;on, Vt:rnwut, :-;~eoud; .., he and AI Stevenson a een l!e\\ Itt, r·ntun. third. Time Ju :12.~. third; Smith, Psi Upsilon, fourth, shifted to give Van Ladd experi- ~2u-;.a 1 ·u tlash-\\'uu by Hii'st, t.:uiou; Kappa Nu, fifth, Distance: 37: 4'h ence in backstopping. Griswold <Hen, l'uiou, '\''·ond; J \''\• Vernl\o.I feet. was touched for a single which third. Time u :22.4. tied the game at three all, but he llalf-mile run-\\'on hy !'l .. umann, Pole Vault-WQn by Pomatti, struck out the next batter to E:nd l'niou: Hos:<, L:ruuu, ~econu: <:ammuus. South College; Va.ndecar, Phi Delta the rally. Trinity then squeezed l'lllon. third. Tim•, :~ ·!'~.2. Theta, second; Waldron, Alpha over the winning 1 ·un in the tenth High jurnv--Wun t>) Burton, l'uio••: Delta Phi and Bell, Phi Delta 'l'heta when Griswold nicked the first Tru!Jeau,. Ver.·wut, se<·LI.d; Bloom ''\-- tied for third. Height: 9 feet. Day of l'niun, tit•.! for third. H<ei·.!or, R. 1 'batter, who finally scored after 5 fet•I, 11'.• lotdie>. eay-Won by Psi Upsilon; Phi stealing second and being ad- ::>hot put _ Won hy :-;aguHzewslti Delta Theta, second; Phi Gamma vanced on two sacrifices. Uuion; Krull, [;niun, '\\'und; Milano, Delta, third; Kappa Nu, fourth. Union ou~hit the Trinity team Union, third. Di~tar~<·e 41 feet. T'irne: 1:43.4. nine to six, and made only three Pole vault-Won by Burton, l!nion; errors to Trinity's seven. The Gar- Pratt, \'ermont, secontl: Butlzyna. Ver- net was unable to hit in the mont, and Vau Werth, Uuion, tied fur third. Height 11 feet, 6 inehes. pinches, as shown in their first Dis<·u~s throw- \\'ou by :>~a:gu.-zew­ part of the tenth. Stevenson alld sl<i. Union; .P..oss, Vermont, ,;econd; ~li­ Cadwallader were on third and lano, Union, thil·d. I>istant·e. 133 feeL f tl 1 Broad jump- \\'on by MacMHian, second as a t'esult o two me Y Vermont; Burton, t.:uiou, oet·oud; Web- sing-les with Olle man down. \ter Vermont, third. Distant•e, 21 feet, Brown then struck out and Ma- ;;:v,., inches. t•otta grounded to short stop to Javelin throw-\\'un by Buuzyna, end the uprising. \'ermont; Bloom, Union, seeund ; 1{ rull, t.:uiun, third. lJblan<'e IS~ feet. 6',. Engage in Fisticuffs ind1es. ---0,--- The game had several interest- ing sidelights. One of these was the brilliant work of Waters in the sixth inning, when three men were on the base paths and there were no outs. Lloyd then fanned two men and forced the third to fly out to Stevenson behind the plate. Another interesting aspect was that of the fisticuffs which took place at second base in the tenth between Flore and Lindell and which involved most of the membet's of the two teams before activities were able to be resumed. Coinplications arose when Lindell slid into Fiore with what seemed to be more than the necessary gusto for base runners. Union's next encounter is with Hamilton College on May 16, All of the remaining four games will be played at home. The teams that wm be met are Hamilton, Rochester, Mass. State, and the Alumni in that order. Summaries: Union- AB R H PO A E Big Fives in Baseball Varsity: Brandow ..... Waters Griswold .... . Brown ...... . Duchscherer Freshman: Thomas ..... . Jones ....... . Yunich ..... . Myers ....... . Miller ....... . G 3 1 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 AB R H 4 0 2 3 0 1 17 4 5 18 2 5 15 3 4 17 4 7 19 6 6 16 !5 5 17 8 5 17 8 5 Per. .500 .333 .294 .278 .267 .412 .316 .312 .294 .294 KieiJa.eh, cf .......... 3 0 0 3 0 fj ~1arlwwslti, I'f ........ 3 0 1 0 0 o Simonaltis, Ill ........ J 0 0 S o U Leavitt. 2b ........... 3 0 o 3 2 o Fitzpatrit•k, c •....... 3 1 0 4 2 0 ·Coffman, p ........... 3 0 0 0 2 0 Totals .............. 29 3 4 2•! 10 I Syracuse . . .. . . . .. .. . .. . 200 100 uoo-3 Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 020 400 Ol}x-6 Two-base hits-Marrota, Cadwaller. ---o---- Symcnse Ce11tt·al Lacmsse Team Heats Union Frosh Syra<:use Central High School, winners of 47 consecutive lacrosse games overwheLmed the Union Frosh squad by the one-sided score of 19-0 on the Libt'ary Field Sat- urday afternoon. ~ the score indicates the game was tremendously Olle-sided, Syra- .cuse running up a 11-0 lead at the half. The UniQn attack was kept well bottled up l>y the outstanding defensive play of the visitors with Hall and Arduln, the two points, hea.ding the defen.se. Union had only three or four good attempts at the Syracuse goal and failed to take advantage of these oppor- tunities because Qf sloppy passing and ball handllltg, Steinburg a11d Montgomery led the Syracuse a.ttack with four goals apiece, while Joe Paul and AI Borden were the outstanding- players for the frosh. Lineup: Union Syracuse Cappiello G McKinley Irish P Hall O'Connor CP Arduin Bor:-don 1D Guenthener Clay 2D Nigro Paul C Steinberg Baker 1A. McCollum Blue 2A. Montgomery Burrell ()E£ Hurd swamped the Unionites 20-9, on their home field. Jack Smith led the Union attack with five goals .. Swarthmore jumped into a 6-2 lead at the end of the first quar- ter, largely because of Sammy Kalkstein's three goals. The defen- sive play of both team~ strength- ened in the second period as Swarthmore closed the half at the long end of a 9-4 lead. Union crept to a 12-9 deficit in the third quar- ter, but in the final pel'iod Swarth- more made 8 goals to give the Un- ion team one of its wor::;t lickings in some time. Jack Smith has now tallied 21 times for the sticltn1en in five game::; while Captain Hugo Berg- man ha:; scored ten times. Union will meet a strong Stev- ens Tech team Saturday at Hobo- ken, New J er:oey, Suuuuaries; UI1iou :Stevens 'l'ecli Barford •.......... , ...... Troeger Potts .................. Morrissett V. Smith .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. . Welch Liffiton .............. McCormack Vandecar ................ Oehman Fraser . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . Kalkstein Lawrence .............. , . . White J. Smith .. . . . .. .. . .. .. . . .. . Price Bergman , . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . Cooper McMurray Lichtenwalner Substitutions: Union-Kennedy, Coleman, Marsella, Reynolds, Tem- pleton, Knox, Swart. Swarthmore- Post, Roche, Bell, Frazer, Long- shore, Taylor, Shrarder, Campbell. Scoring: Union-J. Smith 5, Bergman 2, Vandecar 1, Robinson 1. Swar'thmore-Kalkstein 6, Bell 3, Lichtenwalner 3, Longshore 2, B'razer 2, Welch 1, Price 1, White 1, Cooper 1. Union ............. 2 2 2 3- 9 Swarthmore ...... , 6 3 3 8-20 Penalties-Lawrence, Knox, Tem- pleton, Potts, Cooper, Taylor, Post, Campbell. ---o--- Frosh Tennis Team Meet Pawling in First Match Under the direction of Mr. Achilles the freshman tennis team has begun daily practice sessions in preparation for two matches scheduled for this week-end. The fir•st of these matches against the Pawling School will be played here on Friday afternoon, while on Saturday the squad engages a highly successful R. P. I. yearling team at Troy. Although thus far there has been no definite sched- ule, Nott Terrace High School, Troy High, and the Mohawk Coun- try Day School are other tentative rivals. Marvin Dwore, the runnerup to Fritz Hawley in the Fall touma- ment and strong favorite to win the Spring competition from which the varsity players are omitted, will probably operate in the num- ber one slot. It is possible that Bob Carr, lanky New Jersey boy possessing an accurate, consistent game, may take over the number one post. In any event Dwore and Carr will share the first two posi- tions and in addition will team up in the doubles. The remaining sin- gles players will be chosen from Doug Murphy, Ben Rathbun, Phil Mitchell, Dave Mmer, Pete De- BELLINGER. PAINT CO. ARTHUR TRIGG, Prop. Paints, OUs, Varnishes Glass, Brushes a.nd Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY GENERAL OFFICE EQUIPMENT CO. 140 Jay St. Phone 4-9677 Drafting Supplies - Paper Pencils - Fountain Pens TYPEWRITERS New Repaired Used - Rented Three Fresh Nine Plays Union Tennis Team A.lbany Tomorrow. DefeatsHatnilton J()ne:;. \V.ill ::;tait 011 Mound ln Yearling's La~t Engagement T·he Union freshman ba~>eball team will end its sea:>on tomorrow atternoon at Albany in a 1 eturn game W3ch the Albany High :Sehoul team. U man hu:; w~n two and lu~t two 15ar.ue::; to dute. In un. earlier game, tiLe fresh- man ueteateu Albany Us-7 with Colby Jc:me~ on the mound fur the cubo. l:<.>ach Art Lawt ence found an effective p1tcher in Bob Con- troy last :lattu·ctay in the Green Moult tai n game. Controy limited the J UILIUL' college n1en to eight and vvon hi~ game handily behind the blu15ging of hio mates. Dave .Y.!UleL · lut a double and a triple in two t.>f .hi::> five tr.i!J:> tu tb., plate, while •Billy Thumtt\ lut tbr\e out of fiv-e. Coa.ch. Lawrence will probably otal't none.:> on the mound againot Albany. Dave Yunich will do the bacltstoppi.ng-, Bob Thomas will cover t.h~ in! tial sack., Fra11kie Myers wlll hold down oecond, Bill Tho!IUlS will be at short stop, and Jake A.nazon at third. T'he out- field will be compo:>ed of Gotdon Roic!Ue in left, Dave Miller- in cen- ter, a.nd Dave Luban!:lky in right. George Stewart, the only othet player on the squad, may fill in a~ a Ielief pitcher . Thnm of the freshman are hit- ting ,ovel\ .300 to date. Billy Thom.as is leading, Colby Jones is ~econ<i, and Dave Yunich third. Dave liU!ler has batted in most of the tuns, while Controy has a per- fect pitching- average. The tnajority of the players will ma.ke e:xcellent material for next year's. varl;ity which is losing six regulars through graduation this June, 'C\<>iby Jones and Dave Mil- ler are excellent outfield pr•os- pec.tti. Both are good hitters, and Jones especially is a t<Jp-notch fielde:z· . .Jones· may make the grade as a hurler, however, if he can overcone his wildness. Billy Th.oJD...ll!l, Frankie Myers, and Bob Contr<ly are good infield prospects. Thotn:as has the edge because of his slugging. Dave Yunich will of- fer ·a strong test to Van Ladd as varsity catcher. The rest of the squad h.as great potentialities, but they ne-ed experience to iron the kinlts. In their opening game the freshDJa..n lo:;;t to Green Mountain 9-4. They then came back strong and took Albany. Draper High proved to- be a tartal\ and the yearlings lost an interesting con- test 11}-19. Last SatUI'day Green Mountain was defeated in a re- tui\n engagement 11-5. Witt and Tyler Dennett. Murphy played fol\ three years on the Pas- saic lUgh School team, two time New Jersey interscholastic <:ham- pions while Rathbun and Miller were se<!ond and third men on the ' Elmira I:righ School's squad last year. Agaln.st Pawling five singles and two <loubles will be played. Carr and Illvore are certainties for one doubles assignment and Rathbun and ll,I!Iler may be the other com- bination if they can recover from their er-ratic showing in practice. The tennis coach at Pawling and the man instrumental in ar- ranging Friday's match is Austin Fox, a football, hockey, and tennis star .and a leading student for three years at Union. He is now teaching and assisting with the Atllletic program at Pawling. Always • ::;weep J)oubles to Ovet·come c .. ntinentals; Cohen and Salad 'I'ake Sing-les Climax::ing an afternoon of de- sultory and indifferent play, the Union tennis team swept through the doubles to overcome theit· archrivals, Hamilton, 5-4 at the fini.sn of a tightly contested match on the Clintonite's courts, Satur- day. Tile wind-swept, sun-baked clay surface impeded the progress of the Garnetmen during the early part o.f the afternoon, but by the time the doubles were in action the wind had subsided. It was at this point that the Union victory star began to shine brightly. Only_ Joe Cohen and Bernie Salad had succeeded in submerg- ing theit· opponents in the singles encounte:rs; as Hawley's spotty game feU before the sharp angle show, administered by Hugh Rid- dleberger· of the Continentals. The other solo matches with McGee, Orton and Finch fared no better than did the number one. Win All Doubles M.cGee and Clem Finch polished off their doubles matches in short order aln10st before the number one team had finished warming up, as did Orton and Salad. These victories evened the match scor·e, leaving the burden of a win or loss on t.he shoulders of the Haw- ley-Cohen team. Down after the fir:;t set 'Was lost at love the Union !Jail·, spurred on by the cheers of their team mates, added accuracy to their uncontrolled power so ef- fective-ly that they smothered the opposition in the remaining sets. The team !,ravels away on Wed- nesday and Thursday to meet Syracuse and Colgate respectively. These two teams l:a ve already fal- len victims to the Union rackets in earlier matches. The summary of the Hamilton match is as follows: Singles : Riddleberger defeated Hawley 6-0, 4-6, 9-7; Cohen defeat- ed H<>pk.in:;; 6-4, 6-4; L. C. Smith won over Orton 7-5, 7-5; Can'Uth defeated McGee 6-1, 6-0; Salad de· feated G-etman 6-2, 6-2; and Finch lost to R. Smith 6-3, 6-8, 5-7. DQUbles: Hawley-Cohen defeated Riddleberger-Hopkins 0-6, 6-2, 6-1; McGee-Finch defeated Carruth-L. C. Smith 6-1, e-1; Salad-Orton de- feated ICingsbury-Getman 6-3, 6-2. CHARLES' Formerly ED'S The Official Union College Barber for the past 25 years. Aslt any upper classmen, they kuow. 11 opera tol'S. Scheuectady's greatest barber. COil. S'l'A'l'E AND llUOAil\VAY We Have the Finest DE LUXE MOTOR COACHES (Equipped witll Radio) t() be !J.ad in the Capitol District BE CONVINCED-CALL G. A. Welcome & Son Phorte 4-8444 1171 Union St. A REGISTERED PHARMACIST IN CHARGE BRANDHORST PHARMACY \'ON THE CORNER\ UNION ST. & GILLESPIE II:. EI. Brandl10rst, Reg. Phar. L. E. B-randhorst, Reg. Phar. Fiore 2b . , . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 0 2 0 U Mar-ra. ss .. . .. . .. . .. . 1 1 o 2 2 2 nuseherer. If ......... 3 II n a 0 u Griswold, p .......... 4 1 1 1 2 u Cad waller, 3b ........ 3 0 1 I 5 0 Stevenson, c .......... 4 0 I ~ 0 0 Stolen bases-Brown 3. Lambeth, Sin>· onaitis, I•'itzpatridc Struek out-By Coffman 4, Griswold 4. Ump!,res- Huthkowsky and Connelly. JAMES E. DAY, Optician Prescl'iptions Filled or Duplicated ~P~ip~it~o;;;;;;~IE!~;;;;;;A~-~B~ro~wn~~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;~ ~ -~- ~~~~~~ Brown. 1b ............ 4 I 0 9 u o Lambeth, rf .......... 2 2 0 0 0 o M11rrota. cf . , . . . . . . . . 4 0 2 5 0 0 B~;t~~:·-~~.::::::::::2~ ~ 1z~ ~ ~ Syracuse- AB It Jl PO A E :\olamosser, If . . . . . . . . . 4 1 1 0 1 0 G. Brown, 3b ......... 3 0 1 2 2 o Bradley, ss ........... 4 1 I ~ .I I THE ACME BARBER SHOP Welcomes All UNION COLLEGE Students 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS ' General Repair Work IHH Union St., Cor. Barrett St. 3 BioP.kS Below College Gate !'HONE 2-3<164 Interested i11 Sc/uneclady ltlterested itz UNION Maurice B. Graubart The Jay Street JeVJeler 166 JAY STREET Watclz and Jewelry Repait•iug a Specialty HENRY·s BARBER SHOP MILK BARBERING and MANICURING 10 N.Y. C. Arcade CREAM BUTTER Cloverland Creamery PHONE 2·4265 EGGS ICE CREAM COTTAGE CHEESE THE Pri.nting Where are men welcome. CAZETTE . . . . Engraving Union always PRESS .. . . Binding ·I

Four Engineers to Meet At C9Uege andG.E~ Plans An Nearing Completion For Annual Spl\ing Meeting Of Educational Society T·uition :Installments 'l'he filial iltstallment of tui- tion fm· tile second half year h; <iue n.n11 1nust be paid on FJUDAY, MA..Y 15th at the Cou:~.ptroller\'s O~fice. The usual fine for la,te :payment will be n1ade for all payments made after ~fay 15th. The CDornptroller's Office wiii be up<oJn br the collection of fees on Fii day fr·om 8:30-11:45 A. ~1. Uil.d :fwm 1-4:35 P. M. Plan,:; are neat ing com~l'etion ft>I the unnuui spring meetit1g uf the Middle Atlanth! Hection ut: the Soci- ety ful' the Fromot ion ol ~~ngi'IH~tll' ing Buucation which wii! meet on \S:t.ud\\'t\ t· I ·t'l'e\ IP ~ro· pt'c the c<.<Iu!JU::> unci at the.: Gclll'l :11 • \- \ - \\ Elecll ic Company Ft iday and Sat- Of Von :Fol·stmeyer Talk Uiday, ~lay I5 and 16, it wa:o an- nounct..!l1 Luliuy oy .l-Jtult:~~ut l:u.;::,,::,t..:~~ --- A Hall, uf the divh>ion 0f enginee1·· ThtJ.l'Stday, L\lla.y 7.- \Student Life 1ng, who .Is in chui·ge uf the pio· Abt·oad·\ was the subject of .Mr. giam. Kur.t Von· Forstmeyer's adt!ress at ::otudcn b \\ well u::> \utoide dele- the Pyt··amo.id ·Club dinner held at gate\ and profes:;ur:; it wati a·l:;o Hale :H~>use tonight, which. was fol- annuuzll·etl, will bL• udwit leu to the lowed :by the election of officers for ::oc»::;iuns and may, by otf tciully en- the ful!u1v ing yeu.I and creating 1·olling J<'riday morning, attend the Chari es Daley '38 as president. t>ntirc· p 1 u~ram uf the confe1•encc. In th~ <Jld. autocratic Germany The w:tivilles of the meeting, the UIIdet· the l\a.ise1 and in the uemo- lllllk uf which will be hL•Id Friday, cratle Get·rnany of recent years, · 1 · t t · · tl many- s.tuden ts of small universi- will bt'gin Wit 1 fPgts 1 a wn m · Je ie:; lurd t11oelt· first taste of freedom mo1mng, after which the more than t 2&0 delegate~ expected will make an ':\hen they started university life, in:;pcctiun tour tluough the Gen- :aid :Mr. \Ton 'Forst meyer. The first t.:Ial J!:icct!ic Company \'.'hCI e they semester's wot·k, as a result, usually will abo attend luncheon. Furthei consisted of carousing. The student THE CONCORDIENSliS, TUESDAY, :MAY 12, 1936 Concordy Faces Keen Competition From Rival Journalis~ic Jfagnate C(}mmencement To See :Maples and Barringer Return of ·Ten Old Classes Are Added to Idol Staft 'Twelve of old Union's graduating Louis C. Maples '38, and Lon H. cia~ses; coverlng a ·period of 52 Bar1,inger '39, have ·been eleCJted The Concordiensis, only Union Ryan Fox and Harold Fox to·. yeai'S, wiH meet for their quinen- members of the Id~l Staff for the College newspaper for over fifty F'lint, Michigan, in ot·der to pUl'-, nial .reunions dur-ing Commence- coming year it was Bonnounced years, today faces dange1·ous com-· chase a new Buick. This consti- ment week-end, June 4 to 8, the Monday. Although the two men petition. The first issue of a rival tutes a scoop over the Conco1·dy . Gt,ad uate CouncH ,Office announced· were elected at the regular meet- journal appeared yesterday on the which carried no note of the story. toduy. . ing of the Publications Boa:rd the. campus and Concordiensis editors, Although the new newspaper is Each class returns for a reuni'on · results were not made !mown un- it is learned, fear the effects ser- copyrighted, your correspondent at eveiy .five ye.xrs, witll an additional til yesterday. iously. .some risk of prosecution offei·s a I.etmion three years after gradua- Both Barl'inger and Maples ha:ve Jimmy Maver of 1 Union Ave- few selections from the first issue: Han. been consistent Idol contributors• nue is editor, publisher, and print- Tile Motmtebanks Trailer Sign Th.e classes and their reunion during the cur1:ent year. Ban·in· er of the new paper, which is as Is Wearing· Off. ch.airmen are: 1881-William B. ger's story \Prewie·re was fea· ret unnamed. The large sum of :Landreth, Sc. D., 1078 Gillespie St., tured in the second issue and his 30(} is offered to the person who Sig·ma Phi Opens Gate Schenectady; 1886-~ilan H. Jack-~ 1-ather mystical piece, \The Lost submits the best name for it. The \Tl!e .Sigma Phi fraternity has son, 27 Washington Ave., ScheneCJ- · Chord,\ appeared In the •last is· unl;y condition~ arc that the prize opened its hack gate on Union l.uly; 18[)1 Rev .. \'illiam H. Ell. sue. Many will remember t·he de· will not ·be given unless 45 copies Ave. gate after having it locked wards, 551 Hoosick St., Troy; '1'896- lightful t'ecounting of the typical of the first issue at five cents a for a long time. Having this gate Geot·ge :H. Dann, Ph. D., Oneonta;: English Manor mUJ:der setting pro- piece are sold. According to latest open is a great relief for the 1901-- Charles P. Wagoner, 534 Prov- vided by Maples in his ai·ticle reports officers of the Concordien- Mavors ... \ .Jd ence St., Albany; 1906- J. Leslie: \Mystery\ which appeared in the sis are deciirous of signing Mr. Norman Stewart, editor-in-chief M:0on, 1389 Regent St., Schenec-. April r5 publication. Mavo1' up as business manager of of the Concordiensis, when inter- lady; 191l·Dr. Otto A. Faust, 817 Maples, a resident of Norwich, the college journal. viewed concerning the new com- M:ad-isun Ave .. Albany; 1916 Peter: C'unn., is a student in physics anJ Mr. Mavor's newspaper carries peting paper, said in part, \It is J. M. Clute, 4:37 Plymouth Ave., • is affiliated with the Theta Delta a large number of stories on a my sinCJere hope that the circula- :Schenectady; 1921- .. John w. Eddy, Chi Fraternity. Barringer's home variety uf subject~. The opening tion of the new paper doe::> not Schenectady Ga..zette: 1926 John H., is in Charleston, W. Va., and he is of Hale House is the featured J'each the 45 copies necessary be- ·Fink, jr., Nislrayuna; 1931-HOJ·ace a member of Sigma Chi. story of the issue, In another .fore the prize will be given for a lv1. Hager, 19 Garden St., Amster- prominent position position is a name. I do not fPar the new paper· dam; 1933-Willlarn T. Eldred, 51 story on the flight of Mrs. Dixon if it has no name.\ Washington Ave., Schenectl3.dy. • THE NEW --~.·0--- Senior Class Request IRienow Receives Appointment Psi U Tea .Dance ,DENTlST·RY l ·n~\\Ctt'on t 11 ·p~ 1 ·n the afternoon at was the master of the small univer- ~.-c ~ 1 d' th 1 h All members of the Senior class ~ t 1a M 9 Th p · U ' the ~l!uicc of the dele .. :.tte will 111 . sity town, inc u lllg e wea t y D R b .,a. Ill\( ·Y, a.y .- e s1 pst- \ b d th · d ht s· 1 ·n are again requested to report to r. ·o ert Rienow, instructor in ·ton ·ft·a·tet·n1 ·t.y en·te 1 ·ta 1 ·ned today A pl!ase ·Of Preventive JUedlclne Colh,ge :\len find In It unuHual opportunities for a career dude the Amei ic:an L0comotive Ur!iers an eu· aug e1· , Con 1 ,., 11 ,. in Schenectady, the Mo- tihort, student life of the old regime the News Bureau as soon as pos- political science at Uni0n last year, with a tea dance followed by a buf- .-~ J 1 1 d · 1 f b d · 1 · sible, in order to check their ac- f t ... T • f th ff · hawk Carpet .M.ilis at A.m:>tenlam, cons s ~ rnam Y o eer nn ung tivities records. will be on the faculty of Albany · e supper . .1.uUSlC or· e a an· was the United :State~ ArsenaL at Water- and du€llng. 'I'oday, however, ac- State TeaCJhers College beginning .furnished by Austin Hutchins and \lt'et the \V. L. E. Gut·!ey Compam: cording to Mr. Von Forstmeyer, the his Orchestra from New Haven, • - G ·t t d · v·1 B '38 · 'd t this SeptembE'r, it was announced c a t · 1 d d J B d at Troy, the Fonl :Motor Co. as::>en,- ennara. universt y s u ent IS re- 1 mar ose , vtce-presJ en ; , onn. ues s 1nc u e ean ra - bly plant at u 1 cen blun d, and the qui red to ~o·ordinate himself rigidly Howard Moncton \37 secretary; Lee today. shaw, Loretta Turner, Barba1·a l:lchcnectatly Sewage TI eatlllent with the National Socialist system. Thiessen '37, treasurer. The under- Dr. Rienow came to Union Col- VVHd, Peggy Ryan, Mary Fuller, Plant. In the a.fte1·-dinner election meet- graduate board of governors for lege from Columbia, with Ells- Dorothy Rice, Ann Sanford, an·d HARVARD UNIVERSITY DENTAL SCHOOL A competent course of prepar· ntion for the den tal profession. A ••cta.ss A\ SdtooL \Vr!te for va!alogue. LeRuy ~I. S. nl·lrur, D. ni. D., ~1. D., D(l[lll Dept, 27, 188 Lougwood Ave., Boston, lllu.ss, Group confet·ences in the after· nuon will be divided into the ~;;en­ era] fields of civil engineet in15, me- chanical engineering, electdcal en- gineering and chemicul .and metu!- !Ur)5ieal en15ineedng. Pt·ofessor Marti mer Sayre will be cllairman of the conference on mechanical engi· neering which will deal with the tiUbject \Collegiate and Potit Col· Iegiate Ttaining:· Some of the speal<.ers will include F. V. Gardner, E. E. Patker, C. Concur<lia, Dr. \\'. D. Cuulid~;;e. At the dinner at Hale Hou~e in the evening, the :;peakei 6 will be Dr. Dixon Hyan Fox, Dr. W. 0. Hole hltbci, pw.::>ident -of H. 1'. 1.. and Dt. F. L. Bishop, tio(;cretaty uf the society, and Dr. il\Vtng Lang- muir. ing, the Pyr·arnid Club named as the next year will be: Vilmar Bose worth Mi:osall, who is now on the G·retchen Thomas. The chapet·one its offi.ce!·s for the forthcoming '38, Laurence Hennessey '38, Charles edltori!l!l staff of the magazine was Mrs. Earl Nicltlas of Schenec- ~-·e_a_r_._c __ h_a_I·_I~_s __ [) __ al_e~~-·-'3_8_, __ P_r_es_i_d_e_n_t_; __ D_a_l_e_y_·_3_8_, _a_n_d __ H __ o_w_a_r_·d __ l(_n_a __ ck __ '_3_7_. __ ·_·T_o_d_a_y_._ .. ______ ---------------~t~a=d~YC·~------------------------_1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ • CALENDAR Tut'sday D·iplomu Fee Dut> at BUI sal'ti Office. /:1.15 p. m. Lecture, ~. P.ulteti Cudman, \The \\'ui id ut the C!u66ruuJ~ ... undet \uopice:o uf the Fu :ol Rdulllled C.:lllllcll uf Rotterdam. • :::ltuden tti admit· ted ft ee upon p1·etier1ta lion uf Athletic Ttcketsl, :.\1emurial Char->ci. WPdnesday 3.uu p. 111. Gulf, Unwn vs. \\'II· ham~ at \\'IIIIum:;tuwn. 4 .uu p. Ill. Tenniti, L.:niun v::;. ::i;yw.cuse at ::iyiacu>e. Fre,;hman Bu::>eball. t:n10n v:-. Albany H. S. at AliJany. 7 3U p. 111. 8tudent Cuunnl :.\lel'l!ng. 8t udcnt Aeti\ llleti Uf· liCe Thur~da~y 3 uu p Ill. <rolf. l:nHJlll v: Col· gHte at Sch•·n<>rtady. ·l IIU p. m. TPnnh tlnt<lll v' ('ul- f!Hlt• at Hamilton. Fri<la,· I-\iual ln.-Ltllnit·;lt ,,f Turti\n Due at Bur >al 's Office. ;;piing :O.lel'lmg, ::0.1iddiP Atlan· tic Sl·ctiun of Sueiet;y fui Pro· u1otion uf Engml'enrlg Educa· tion, auspices uf U111un Coilegt·, R. P. 1 .. ant! (ieneial Elec-tric Company. R~;:istr·ation. Inspection Trip::>, und Confet enceti 1 Fur t.letaiietl !J!'ogram con,ult Profr,;~ors Abbot, ::iayre, Haill 1 UlJ l' m Ludi•·,· Lu nchron at Hale House. For House IJnen Service PHONE 4-3166 American Coat, Apron & Laundry Co. 1030 Barrett St. '---------------------------- FOR BETTER AND QUICKER SERVICE CALL BALL'S Phone 2-345~ or Bring Work to 63 3 State Street BALL'S Cleaners and Dyers Inc. S~oe Rebuilders Ceylon is famous for Spices Brazil is fam()US for Coffee ... but Turkey is famous for Tobacco ... the aromatic Turkish· tobacco that adds fragrance and flavor to Chesterfield Cigarettes. !) !'J\ t.. LlLGETT & MYERS ToBAcco Co. It's the right quantity of this 7rtrk· ish tobacco blended and cross- blended with the best home-gr~~wn tohaccos raised in this country .that give Chesterfields their mildness and better taste - another reason why Chesterfields Satisfy. En gin Hoi ~pl,·i. l\I eet Vol. UX., Glee ·C Three~ J At Ann Moultoll, ( To Hea<l Con Home C(] Tentative I St11de1 A Wt>dll('St.lll.y Moulton of S Gatchell of elected co-lea lege Glee < season tonigl ner meeting House. Carl elected stud! season. Robert M./1 '36, James I Wan en C. 'C! Tidmarsh, di called on t1 eously. The 1 cet·t in the ; year for the although !1() · taken on this Re:iring of tiun are Rot nectatly, lead ball, jr., of ~ dent leall.er, The dinne1 closed the 1 took the Glet put of the s cnts we1·e gi Elmira, Bing Albany, Kir:l.~ and the seast month at :Su MliSi() Moulton, a Upsilon fra_t sistently met List for higl been promii the musical three years. I band, and Lh has sung wit years, He Is has bee11 a ming and C!r Moulton i Schenectady at·ship for tt Gatchell, c is one of th of the co !leg ball, he has · important n team in fielc has been p the 1937 Ga.r reelected to I was one of' class \tappe< cil. He has I Dean's List: Psi Upsiloll. Marshall, member of and is stud:e lege bo<>lts~< named on tt Twe]vf! On Gelll Friday, l'\1 College geol nied by thl cam.)Jus this geologic fo r1 ticut Valle:Y other points tiun. They will 200 million : tory as th Triasie sec traces of ILII district. The dinosaur f< ground wll young. Afte Sugar Loal mangan.ese The men. led by PT' Smith and I vin Van Va_li son, Rayn~c werp Waldr liarn Phil! Charles fro ton, Willa Beebe and..

H. ea· his is· de· the Is Engineers Hold Meeting Gle-e Club Eleets Off,iC€1'8 Vol. U:X., N0. 59 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., ~lAY 15; 19SB- PRICE FIVE CENTS Glee ·Club Ele·cts Three~ New Officers At Annual Banquet Moulton., Gatchell, Marshall,· To Head Organization for Conti11g- Season Home C<lncert Discussed Tentative Plans fot· Affak for St11dents Next Year Ann()unced Wt-dllt>sdu.y, l\tay 13.- Edga1· Moulton of Schenectady and Frank Gatchell of B<rltimore, Md., were elected co-leadoe!s of the Union Col- lege Glee dub for the 1936-37 season tonight at the annual din- ner meeting of the club at Hale Heuse. Call Iv.Im·sha!l of Troy was elected student manager for th~ season. Cease Alters 'Table d'Hote To Give Greater Variety Ih order to accommodate diners who feel in a,ny way te· stricted when ot·dering a table d'hote meal, Mr. Cease, manager of the new dining hall, is mak- ing every effort to offer a greater variety of food. Any part of a set dinner may now be ordered or substitutions will be made wi·th other available foods. At the Dining Hail a Ia carte breakfasts and luncheons are served daily with a wide var- iety of food offered. The Sun- day evening menu also gives the diner a wide choice. The impossibility of estimat- ing the number of patrons from day to day makes it exh£>mely difficult for him to have on hand quantities of many differ- ent cooked foods. Student Council Elects 0 fficers Converse, Sloatman, I{enne<ly Ch.osen Vice-Chairman, Treasurer, Secretary Rober.! ~ells '36, Charles Reid '36, James Kimball '36, Professor Wan en C. '['ay-lor and Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, director of music, wet·e called on to speak extemporan- eously. The plan of holding a con- cert in the M ernorial Chapel next year for the st.udents was dicussed although no definite action was · taken on this idea. Re:iring officers of the m·ganiz;a- tion are Robert E. Wells of Sche- nectady, leader, and james E. Kim- ball, jr., of Springfield, Mass., stu- dent leader. Wednesday, May 13.-The Stu- dent Council ~n meeting tonight elected Franklyn Converse, vice- : chairman; John Sloatman, treas- ' urer; and Richard Kennedy, secre- tary of that or-ganization. The new The dinner last night officially closed the pi·esent season, which took the Glee Club to almost every part of the state on its tours. Con- certs wet·e gi.ven in New York City, Elmira, Binghamton, Hudson Falls~ Albany, Kin.gston, and other cities, and the season was closed late last month at Buffalo. Mllsically I'rominent Moulton, a member of the Delta Upsilon fra.ter\nity has been con- sistently mentioned on the Dean's List for high scholarship, and has been prominently identified with the musical Ufe of the college for three years. He has played with the band, and the Garnet Goblins, and has sung with the club for all three years. He is college carillonist, and has been a tnember of the swim- ming and cross-country teams. Moulton is also holder of the Schenectady County Alumni Schol- at·ship f1>r the class of 1937. Gatchell, -co-leader with Moulton, is one of the outstanding athletes of the co liege. A. lette~:man. In foot- ball, he has also developed into an important member of the college team in field and track events. He has been photographic editor of the 1937 Garnet and has just been reelected to the student council and was one of' the seven men of his class \tapped\ to the Terrace coun- cil. He has been mentioned on the Dean's List and is affiliated with Psi Upsilon. Marshall, the new manager, is a member of tbe Chi Psi fraternity and is student assistant in the col- lege bool!s'tor'€. He has also been named on the Dean's List. ---0·--- Twelvt! Union Students Field Trip On G e()l()gy Friday, :Ma.y 15. --Twelve Union College geology students accompa- nied by theiz· professors left the campus this morning to study the geologic formations of the Connec- ticut Valle:,:-, and visit mines and other points of interest in that sec- tion. They -will be going back 11;1m~st 200 million years in the earths ht~­ tory as tlwy study the classic Triasie se~tion and observe the traces wf anrimt lava flows in the district. They- will also exami.ne the dinosaur footprints, made m the ground w:hen the continent was young. After a picnic luncheon at Sugar Loaf, they will visit the mangan.ese ·tnines at Plainfield. officers are all members of t:he class of 1937 and will serve a year's ,erm. This election supplements that of a week ago when the coun- cil chose Robert Everest '31, to be chairman. At tonight's meeting the Council also appointed a committee c<Jn- sisting of Vincent Smith, chairman, Grant Smith, and Wallace Baker to investigate rushing conditions in other colleges in an effort to secure for Union a better rushing system. Franklyn Converse of Mechanic- ville was elected to the Student Council in the last elections. Re was chairman of the 1937 Junior Ptom Committee. Jack Sloatman came to Union from Norwood, Fa. He was a member of the Hl35 sophomore discipline committee and the junior board of the Student Council. He played varsity football for the past two years, winning his letter as a sophomore. He also played lacrosse in his freshman year. He is a member of Chi Psi. Richard Kennedy is from Cham- plain and is also a new member of the Student Council. He won his \U\ in varsity lacrosse and was a member of the swimming squad. He· is affiliated with the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. ----o--- Camp Folder Published Four Day l'rogram of Activitit>s Outlined in Detail The newest addition to the col- lege curricula, a freshman camp at the base of Pilot Knob Moun- tain on Lake George has been ade- quately presented in a four page folder now on hand in the Office. The complete program of the four- day vac!!Hon sponsored by the Col- lege Christian Association and under the direction of Wilford H. Ketz and student leader Robert D. Everest, includes swimming, bik- ing. an amateur night, Church services, and several roundtable discussions on such subjects as \How to Study,\ \Schenectady and its Environment,\ and \Fraterni- ties and Social Life at Union.\ The discription of the camp site is well done as, for instance, \a well-equipped camp , . . a saitdy beach ... a lake that gleams lilte a sapphire, nestling in the heart of the Adirondacks. One hundred and ninety-eight acres of wood- land, field and lake front offer splendid facilities for boating, swimming, hiking and the pursuit of supervised athletics and other sports.\ The tnen. who will malte the trip, led by PTofessor Edward S. C. Smith and Henry Vaughan, are Al- vin VanValkenburg, Benjamin Wil- son, Raytnond Robinson, Van Ant-· werp Waldron,. Robert Warner, Wll· liam Phillippi, Calvin Selmser, Charles II:ockford, Gordon Thorn- ton, Wlllard Hagadorn, Robert Beebe ana. John Bergst1·om. The purpose of the camp is to give the men of 1940 \an opportun- ity to be intelligently informed concerning problems they will have to solve as members of the college community\ and to provide the bacl{ground for what will .prob- ably be the most signific~nt 2;nd enjoyable years of their ltfe. 'lhe cost of the camp to each of the freshmen going will be seven dol- Jars. Among -the articles they are requested to bring are needles and thread, fishing tackle, and no 1lre- arms. Five Members of Latin Play To the Four Corners Outing Club Go First Engineers Attend First Sessions of W ~ekend Meeting To ICCA Meeting Of Drama Symonds, Williams, Berg- strom, Lei.th, North to At- tend Annual Conference Conclude Year's Program List of Recent Activities In . eludes Wilton T1·ip, First Banquet The Union Outing Club will bring its activities fo1· the college year officially to a close when this week- end five of its member,; represent .he club at the fifth annual Inter- coilegiate Outing Club Association confer·ence being held at Camp Gray Rocks, Newfound Lake, New Hampshile. This year the Smith Outing Club is in charge of the conference. The members of the Union club plan- ning to attend are Robert Symonds, recently chosen as chairman of the executive council for 1936-37, Wal- ter Williams, retiring chairman, Robert North, chairman during 1934-35, Jack Bergstrom, and Rob- ert Beebe. The program for the weekend be- gins with the usual square dance tonight. Tomon·ow a number of discussion groups will meet to go over such subjects as cabins, equip- ment, food, IOCA policies, winter carnivals, publicity, membership drives, and Alumni Outing Clubs. Tomorrow night Mr. Apperson, from the General Electric Company will speak to the conference on \Eroding Mountains,\ and will also show movies taken at Mountain Week held last fall in the Adiron- dacks under the leadership of the Union Outing Club. Many Colleges Attending About twenty other colleges, in- cluding most of those in the New England states, are sending dele- gates to the conference. The exec- utive committee of the IOCA now includes Middlebury, Smith, and Union. The IOCA was founded to bring the outing clubs of different colleges together to exchange ideas, discuss common problems, and plan joint activities. During the year it holds the conference in May, Mountain Week in September, and several ski weekends in the winter. Recent activities of the Union Outing Club include a trip last weekend to Wilton, N. Y., and the first annual Outing Club dinner April 28 at which an executive council consisting of Robert Sy- monds, chairman, Richard Angle, Jack Bergstrom, and Robert Leith was chosen for the coming year. Nn plans have been announced by the Outing Club for next year, ex- cept that several delegates will be sent to the IOCA Mountain Week in the Adirondacks prior to the opening of college. Production Group Clost>s Sea- son With Rollicking Comedy .. Phot·mio\ Translated By Student Modern Version by Fet·dinand Helm ':l7 Lays Emphasis On Stage Business The Union Colle~e comse in play pmd.uetion, undet· Edward L. Car- roll, will close the first year of ex- istence tonight at 8:30 o'clock in the Mountebanks theater with a performance of Terence's \The Ph01mio,\ mode1nized by Fet·di- nand Helm jr., of Schenectady, a member of the course, In translation and production, the play has picked up material equally f1·om classic, medieval and modern times. The plot is Roman, the setting on medieval lines, and the translation has modernized both. The plot, rather involved, tells of two young men and their la.dy loves rescued from the wrath of their fathers by a slave, Geta, and a con- fidence man, Phormia. Th1·ough the play move a procession of col- orful characters, types of choleric old fathers, racketeers, slaves, col- legiate youth, and city hall loung- ers. Students in Women's Parts The course also returns to an old tradition of the Mountebanks Thea- ter with men taking the women's parts. Nausistrata, wife of the hen- pecked Chremes, whose name lit- erally means \The-navy-and-the- army\ is an imposing figure, with· Sophrona, the old nurse, an admir- able foil in her bent, complaining part. The setting is much the same as might have been used in Ferrara in the year Columbus discovered America. An adaptation of the man- sion stage, it has all of the scenes combined in ohe unit. Instead of Cupids and Mercuries which dec- orated the older form, the new set has weighing machines and gum slot machines decorating it, with a fire escape striking a dominant note. The complete cast of the play fol- lows: [)avos, David C. Bec],et·: Geta, Wallace T. Foote: Antipho, John B. Emans, Phaedrie, Tony Sharpe; Demipho, S. Ralph Cohen; Phor- mia, John B. Dowling, jr.; Hegio, Frederick W. Frost, jr.; Cratinus, W. Bleecker Myer; Crito, David C. Becker·; Dorio, Robert T. Shreve;. Chremes, Ferdinand Helm, jr.; Sophrona, Frederick W. Frost, jr.; and Nausistrata, Carlton M. Gar- t·ison. Drama Festival Stamps Issued· Ovet· 200,000 to Be Distrib· uted Among· Students, Fac- ulty, Mohawk Valley Firms Thursday, May 14.-With much the same pride exhibited by Post- master General James A. Farley when a new stamp issue comes from the government presses, Fred- erick Calvin, resident manager of the Mohawk Drama Festival to- night displayed the new poster stamp for the 1936 Festival. Tomor- row 200,000 of these poster stamps will be distributed in attractive ·booklets of 24 each (gratis) to stu- dents, faculty and to residents and business firms in Mohawk Valley. These stamps, on outgoing mail envelopes, will carry the name of the annual Drama Festival on the campus to the four corners of America, as well as Canada and foreign countl'ies. Last year the General Electric alone mailed out 20,000 of the 1935 Festival stamps. The 1936 poster stamp aroused much interest among philatelists even though they are a \cachet\ to stamp collectors. The design was executed by Charles Buckles Falls, widely known as a designer, an art- ist and a mural painter. Mr. Falls used \Macbeth\ for his motif in the design which shows a moonlight scene wi-th two figures before the towering walls of an ancient castle. A rich blue is the dominating color and in relief is the legend: \1936 Mohawk Drama Festival, July 21 to August 29, Schenectady, N. Y., Union College campus.\ The size of the stamp is 11rJ x 1 inches. Students and faculty wishing to have additional booklets of stamps may secure them at the Festival headquarters, on the second floor of Silliman Hall or by telephoning 2-4000. Anire Here Today to Reg·in Round of Conferenc-es and Inspection TouJ.'S Over 250 Delegctt es Union, R. P. I., G. E. llosts to Society for Promotion of Engineering Education Friday, May 15. ~ Over two hun- dred and fifty members of the Mid- dle Atlantic Society for the Promo- tion of Engineer·ing Edu-cation ar- rived here this morning to take part in the spring meeti.ng of the society held this weekend under the auspices of Union College, Rensse- laer Polytechnic Institute, and the General Electric Company, This morning the members were the gu.ests of the General Electric Company on an inspection tour of the company's local shops and this noon at a luncheon in the plant. This afternoon the guests were given their choice of either going on inspection trips through other Schenectady and vicinity industries· or attending various parallel con- ferences being held on different engineering subjects. Conf('rence Subjects The subject of the conference now in session in the civil engi- needng field Is \The Highways of the Future, What Should. Our Col- leges Teach in Their Highway Courses and How Can They Best Mel't the Demand,\ the discussion being led by H. 0. Shaz·p of R. P. I. In mechanical engi.neering and machine design, Professor M. F. Sayre i~ chairman of a discussion on \Collegiate and Post-Collegiate Training,\ while parallel discus- sions are being held on \Thermal Problems in the Electrlcal Indus- try\ and \Mechanical Pr-oblems in the Electrical Industry:• At the same time several conferences are in progress on chemical and metal- lurgical engineering, Late this afternoon the members will at tend a talk and demonstra- tion in Rice Hall of the General Electric Company given 'by- Dr. W. D. Coolidge, director o:f the re- searcll laboratory. Tonight the soci- ety will have dinner at H~le House. Speakers for the evening will be Dr. Fox, Professor Fessendon of R. P. I., and Dr. F. L. Bishop, sec- retary of the society. Tlte confer- ence will come to a close tomorrow with a technical and buslh.ess ses- sion in the Electrical E-JJgineering building. A partial list of those attending the sessions is as follows : Edgar MacNaughton, 1'ufts Col· lege; F. A. Magown, M. I. T.; F. C. Mlrgain, Rutgers; A. A. Nims, Nwk. Coli. of Engr.; John A., Oakey, Columbia; A. J. Palerrno, Union; G. A. Palsgrove, R. P. I.; L, L, Park, Amer. Loco. Co.; G. M:. Philps, R. P. I.; L. B. Puffer, \U. of Ver- M6untebanks' Trailer May Be Used For Variety of Academic Purposes Athletic Board Dissolved College Control of Athletics Ends Duties of Board (Continued on Pag;e 4) Student Service :Bnreau To Be All Campn.s Group The spring floods have long since receded and carried with them the movable part of Schenectady real estate, but the weatherworn Mountebanks ark, or rather trailer, still remains parked in the exact center of the campus, mutely pay- ing tribute to the conquest of beauty and harmony by the ma- chine. The Mountebanks trailer was built a year ago last December by an iron foundry worker under the supervision of Milton M. Enzer, as- sistant to the president in charge of public announcements and head of the College News Bureau. The trailer was originally modelled in the covered wagon style, with a canvas top supported by hoops, but the foundry worker was apparently unable to endure the thought of fixing it up along its original lines. As a result, students and faculty alike were astounded last Decem- ber when there appeared on the campus a massive creation of cor- rugated sheet steel. Immediately it was dubbed \Enzer's folly,\ but more recently it has been more appropriately, considering its size, named the \College white ele· phant.\ Last year the trailer was called into service thr·ee times to trans- port heavy scenery for the Mounte- banks. This year it has seen action once, a truck proving to be a more efficient means of transportation. Still it remains in the center of the campus. This year the college has been extremely fortunate in having Hale House and the dining hall given it, and Silliman Hall redecorated and refurnished, but no one has as yet taken note of the new permanent building near the steam plant. The way in which the modern steel \Trailer Hall\ will be used is not !mown at present, but it is rumored that some of the college's portraits will be hung there. Some students argue that the trailer is an excellent companion for the college gas pump. Others, as the head of one fraternity near the trailer puts it, simply \don't care.\ The vast majority, however, agtee with the president of another frater·nity near which the trailer has been parked when he says, \This thing has always been an eyesore to. rue. I do not see why It cannot at least be moved to a lo- cation behincl the C. E. building.\ The transferrence of financial control of the Union College physi- cal education and athletic depart- ment from students to administra- tive officers logically compels the dissolution of the long-standing Athletic Board, composed of stu- dents and faculty, it was announced yesterday by director of athletics, J. Harold Wittner. In a letter announcing the auto- matic end of the board, Mr. Witt- ner said: \In view of the recent ed- ucation and athletic department there remains no necessity for the further existPnce of the Athletic Board. Such being the case, that board stands dissolved. \In the future, the elections of the head cheer leaders and the as- sistant cheer leaders will come un- der the jurisdiction of the student council and the matter of team awards will be handled by the same committee as before.\ The duties of this now extinct board, as defined by the college handbook, are \The board shall be charged with the athletic interests of Union College and the athletic policy of the college, intercollegiate or otherwise, shall be under the supervision of the Board.\ According to the plan of organ- ization announced today by the or- ganization committee for the Stu- dent Service Bureau, the bureau will operate next year as an all campus organization. Each class will be represented in the person- nel of the bureau and tbe board of directors will consist of fixed proportion of faculty, pt~esent man- agers and ex-managers. George Haskell will be the senior manager of the bureau for the yea1· 1936-37. The other members of the staff will be chosen from. the ex- perienced men available at present. These will be replaced as won as possible by members who work theh way up from the bottom posi'- tion, that of freshman a:.ide. The purpose of the organization, which fills a long felt need, will be to operate certain services to the students and faculty. li:mploying and aiding Union students, furnish- ing efficient services and depend- able products to the college com- munity, and· helping to reduce the cost of such services and products to the participants will be the ob- jects of the bureau. The bureau was forrned a.fter a study of existing orga:nizations of its kind in other colleg~s.

Two TF-IE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1936 victorious, chortling over the conquest of conceited youth. All these silent gestmes of benevolence shottlcl not pass unrewanled. We think it altogether fitting rmd prower, then, that on the day of June fourth the whole college assemble to offer a pmyer of thanksgiving·, m~, if there are some not so fortunate, at le~1st of in ntemm·ia.m, afte1· which time we quaff immortality and joy with blood red wine. II_ iotUMN I AROUND THE WORLD By RICHARD SNYDER \d Catw& Persa f>nrole Assm\ FOUNDED 1877 We aore just wondm,ing whether ·And have always had a war'm spot At the close of nearly a year's or not this is our last appeal'a.nce .· in our heart for lemon ice. : presentation of world events in an on this \or any other) sta~e, for· We hate light and we hate sweet- obv.iously unskilled manner, we are this year. \We hope tt's just for ness. wondering just how much good we I935 Member :1936 t:\ssociaied CoUe5iote Press Distributor of Co~eeiate ·oie>est l:lule aull excluti\Ve IJUI ioual adver.tl:>illl: re}Jrt:~t:llt ulJ.., t:~ Ni\'l'IONAI. AllVl·:I:TU-l!Nt: HI•:Jt\' It: I•;, luu. 4~U ~ladh:~OJI Av..:nue N\'w Y·orh UL.Y Cblcugo - J3ut;:~lou .. Stt-u I•'1auc~Ht'O .. LoM AtH~~~~tl i'ul L h.1:1t J - tit:I.Llllt: 'l'he official new::;pB:JltH of U1e ::;IIHienlB of Union College. T' ul.lli~h(!U T' ue;,lla) H ami I''• ida)'\ throllghoul the CQllq;e yeu1, except duliug Chdstmas anti ::;pring r~ce::;oe:o. ------------ -----~-- ------ l'ublicalion Office,. Tt1e Gazelle P1·ess, a:H l:llate St., Scheuectady, N. Y., Toleplloue 4.-4H1 I£ntered al the Sell cued wly Potil Uffi<:e as Second Clas~ i!.lail Malter ---------- SuiJ~ctiplion pl'ice Jo'iv~ ·ceul::; a copy; $3.UU a year; delivet·et.l an~w_l~ ~~ tlJt! ~Lll~~ ~~~t~. !Lditorial Hooms, ::iillirnan llall, Uniull Cullege Campul:l. 'J'elephut.e, Sci lUll eclutly, 4-013:1. Senior Board Norman R. Ste1vart .......... -Editor-in-Chief L'hi Psi Lndge-4-65:!7 S. Ralph Cohen ..•.... _ . , ...• .Managing Editor Io :>1. ::>. ti. c.-4-H7a Fenton A. Gage .•.. _ ............. News Editot· ]Jdtu. L.:potlult lluu•c-4·i~:!2 Milton D. Bedell ................. Spoi ts Editor Delta lJIJ:;Ilun Iluu~c-4~~U~2 .Oonalt.l Fo1 d .......... _ .. Circulation Managa Kap••u :>:u Huu~e -4- ~331 Ja.mes \V. Righ.t~r.. . Hu!<iness ManagPl' KaPI•a .Alpha Luuge-4-~12~ ___ _ Jllnior Board ASSOCIA.TE EDITOH.:S Edward Barxy H.<Jbert .Ferguson Julius Bundgus Hyman Enzer Willard Dean Henry Hartmann Robert Doig Melvin Muroff RUSHIN(; INVES'l'lGA'\i'ION With the vig-ot· characteristic of an or- g-~mization gaining fresh r>ower, the new Student Council held its first meeting- Wednesday night f()l' the election of the re- mainillg- officers. Promise of a ptogram of genuil1e activity for next year was m:mifest when the new JHesident outlined a tentative list of recommendations which, if calTied out, will make the g·oveming body one of the most progressive in years. The appointment of a committee to in- vestig·ate plans of deferred or .sy:,; tenmtized ru::~hing nuw Leing used by other colleg·es was the most promising of the t\velve rec- ommendations. Too many ambition::; plans die in committee, but this prop-osed pro- gmm is one so essential to the well-being· of . both fratemities a.nd imliviuua.l freshmen, Carl Trahman Sophoanm:e Boud Assistant Editors M. Depp, F. Hequembourg, E. Houghtaling, P. Humphrey, F. Saitlel, D: Taft, R. Walter, H.. Morgan, D. Miller, J. O'Brien, B. Rathbun, J. Sherman, J. Smith Issue Editors \Villmd Dean Carl Trahman that it must not be allowed to sin]c into ob- livion. Granted that many ob::;t<:tcles stand in the t>uth of complete success, if the fratel'- nities want orde1· instead of chaos, it is not impossible that some system be found to t•emedy the p1·esent evils. The pla.n pl·o- posed by the preside11t probably is not per- fect. What is important, however, is that R. :\!organ Ilsn mn Enzer Assistants it is a beginning·. It may be entit·ely chang-ed, F. Saidel m· it may be used us a basis for further ac- Friuny, M:ay 15, 1936 \Vith this issuf', ThP ConconliPnsi::-; :;us- tion. The vital necessity now is to arouse the fraternities to the need fo1· ch:mge. The leadership pro1nises to be forthcorning from the Student Council. If the gToups which will lJe most henefited by revision ~mrl in- p~:lH..l;; puulicatiun fot· the examination pe- novation will give theil· co-operation, ~ucce::;:, l'iod. The next, a.nd last is:;ue for the schol- must sooner or later result. astic year, will be lhe annual Commencement edition, published ()11 Saturday. June 6. ---0'---- TO 'ritE FACl'LTY WELCOIVIE GRADUATE This afternoon the colleg·e I'eaches forth This i::;sue bei 11 g the Jasl one before thC' its academic hand to welcome tile visit of commencement of examinations we hasten to one of her very prmninent young graduates, assuage the uittemess ot· ill will that the Austin .:'II. Fox. Austin de.pm·ted from professors may contain in their hearts for Union last year with a.s many honors as his any libelous remarks of om· columnists, un- broad shoulders could bear to assume an in- printed notices, attacks on their pet organi- ::;tt·uctorship at Pawling Prepamtory School. zations, and fOl' lack of deserving the suit- In the short time he has been associated able publicity. Foe the student body as a with the school he has been called on to whole, we join in hearty praise of the com- fulfill many irnpo1·ta.nt responsibilities, not petency of each n1em bet· of the faculty, the the least of which is coaching the tennis infinite patience that they have displayed in team. The members of this team will com- times of duress, as a matter of fact for pete against our yearlings, whom Mr. almost anything to humom them along. Achilles coaches. If, perchance, time and experience has not ouliviated the a11g-uish, sirs, even tortme, of the nights, the days, the hours and min- utes before exams, \vhich they must have experienced, then we hope they will mollify their impressions of us. Hemember we are not too undeserving of special consideration, for there have been nume1·ous occasions when we let om gentlemanly instincts sur- mount our lust f<Jr victory. Over the u1idge table thousands of point~ are needlessly lost in an effort to be polite, or a ball ga.me needlessly thrown away l.Jy groving a fast one so that the facult.v team can return, And while we will cheer fm· those '39 men, the outcome of the match will register itself on hearts mil1gled with indici.sion and 1·egret. Of comse, we can :philosophically view the contest as one which is })layed only for the sake of playing and whose results receive slight consideration. But whether or not either team wins is of small import. What interests us most a1·e the .associatio11:s we make with this fine school, in the faculty of which is numbered one of Union's most worthy alumni. To him and the members of his team we extend the hospitality of the whole campus. this year, but we haven't gone may have .accomplished. A collegi~ al ·ound to bUI'n out· .pot of 1 ·n- We hate goodness; we hate neat- b ate columnist should pro ably be cense before the Editorial Board ness. scorned f<Jr thinking it possible yet, so we don't know.) If we were We hate homes and mother-'love. that he ·could do any good. How- sure that this would be th.e last We don't like any other love. ever, we llave tried in this brief you'd hear from us, we would have We hate the prints .of baby space to pre;oent not the ft·uits of ::;ome good advice for :you. But we fing·ers, our mind, but the actions of hu- .;uppose we might as well save it. And baby dancers and baby man beings all over the earth. Thus We burst, at this ti.me, lnto an singers. if one reader has learned something Ogdennashian. he never knew before, we are re- Rhapsody of Hate We hate the thought of childrens' d \Ve are not so weak-vvilled as to prayers, war ed. go thr<Jugh the world simply Jik- And children sitting upon stairs, We have long debated whether or A d h'ld 1 1 · h'ld not to in3ect editorial comment into ing things, · n c 1 ren aug ung, c 1 ren this column. We refrained because When we can get so much more cxying, good, clean fun out of thumbing Children .asking and replying. we felt we were not competent to Ch -Id • d d h'ld • d'o ·so. We therefore beg your in- our nose at and strildng things. 1 ren s wor s an ·C 1 ren s t dulgence while we close this series We hate people who take good ears, with a futile but dee.piy felt plea. care of themselves because we And the ·dirt behind the children's think they are just wasting their ea1·s. One of the reasons for man's time. We hate bright eyes, and hair early refuge in some sort of reli- Now taking for instance The Out- that's curly. gion was that he feared what he ing Club whom we seem to have And Pyhon·ea on teeth so pearly. did not .Jmow or understand. Hence mentioned before in this connec- The truth of the matter is that the old wo1ld, disconnected and iso- tion. They get up in the m.orn- we hate Temple, Shirley. lated hy lack of transportation and ing, we're told, and find a good If anyone thinks that in this communication, had some excuse tree t<J climb. rhapsody we're being unreason- ·for national barriers, suspicions, And having been as healthily able, and intolerance. pdmitive as they .please, Let him bear in mind that this is By good rights, the world should They slide down the bark and skin spring, and we hate particularly have no excuse today; but it has. their arms and their knees anything seasonable. That excuse is lack of knowledge, And talie cold showers and run We hate honesty because we don't lack of understanding in what the up and down in the breeze. approve of any expensive rarity, other fellow is doing and thinking. And even if it's ten below zero And we hate faith and hope and Why'! Simply lYecause it is a human <which malies it twenty below in cha1ity. tendency to ignore the phenomena Schenectady) not one mer.:nber Even if we haven't a friend in of life which are not close to us. dares to ::;o much as wheeze, the world we aren't in the least Our trains will run no matter what Because if he did h.e'd lose his bit worried, Germany does. Our theaters will be membership quicker than quick- Because ·we're sure that everyone open regardless of the Ethiopian lime. who knew us, whether he lilted . war. Three meals a. day wlll be set And if anyone is so foolish a::; to us or not, will come to see us before us whether Japan penetrates collapse they just cut him. up buried. ·China or not. and fry 'm. And just as an afterthought, we God pity us, but this interest in This weelt we hate T. S. who ac- don't like S. R. Cohen because he's things personal and immediate cuses u::; of having an imagina- standing around trying not too lteep::; people from taking a broad, lion that's florid. successfully to look solemn, tolerant view of life. Let it be the All we'll bother to say to that is Which doesn't quite go on S. R. C. message of this column then to that T. S. needn't thinlt he·s so And we hate him and all the urge aU to learn about those with damn torrid. other Concordy people who whom they live on earth. Take fif- As a general thin\' we hate sweet- try to make us hurry with this . \' 1 teen mmutes a day and try to fa- ness, although we think sweet- co umn. miliarize yourself with people be- breads are rather nice, F. H. yond your own horizon. Misunder- Notes On Our Contemporaries rhese Engine.ers! Rensselaer Polytechnic I.nstitute rl'cently sponsor~d a wodd~wide alumni reunion by radio. Lo the l'oor Indian! University of Oklahoma archeol- ogists have discovered skeletons of Indians believed to have been buried 300 years ago. N. Y. A. Workei'S? \More destructive than construc- tive\ is the practice of vvorldng thmugh college, says President Conant of Harvard. Foiled Again A University of Wis<!onsin beauty is endeavot·ing to make tinfoil-sav- ing \»mart.\ She would send the pt ofits to Chinese ml.:sionari~s. MoQre ProfitePring Profiteers of Future Wat·s at Rensselaer Polytech broke up a peace play the other day, declaring peace to be inimicable to t.heir in- terests. GOP Brain Trusters Yale, Harvard, University of Wis- consin and University of Buffalo men have leading positions on the new GOP brain trust. The Constitution Again! The \founding fathers\ wou.ld be the first to suggest changes in the Constitution, says Prof. W. Y. Elliott of Harvard. Student Council Taite Warning Rice Institute, Tex:as, gives an unofficial intelligence test to stu- dent campaignC'rs before elections. D. A. R. Stamp of ApJlrovai The \Practical Pasifists\ and the \Student Americaneers\ are the only peace organizati<Jns approved by the D. A. R. 1936 Langmuir Award Prof. John Gamble Kirkwood, Cornell chemist, has been awarded the 1936 Langmuir award of $1,000. Rtained Glass A heretofore unknown 16th cen- tury stained glass win.dow has been discovered in England by Prince- ton scientists. \Unsolvable\ Math Problems Dr. Aaron Bakst, Columbia mathematician, every week receives two or three \solutions\ of m.athe- matical problems that are unsol v- able. Record Brealrers To set a record, 7.883 Hu·vard graduates contributed last year to the Harvard Fund. Raised Standards C. C. N. Y. has joined other East- ern schools in raising standa1·ds of admission. Library Deposits The University of Wisconsin has more than $20,000 in unclaimed li- brary deposits. Comics Prefel'l'ed Down with the tall, dark and hand- some male, say University or Ken- tucky girls. They'd rathPr be amused by \the comic type.\ Perhaps He's Wise Dr. James A. NaisYnith, 74-yeA.r- old inventor of basketball, ]>layed the game only twice in his life. Now Showing Yes, all you wonderful readers, thie is absolutely our last column this season-for summer communi- cations our address will be Dead End, Chipping-on-the-Mohawk, just southwest of Rex:ford. It has been rather fun for us though, inflicting ourself on you once a week whether you lilted it or not, fighting with the theatre managers about our pass, getting our throat cut every time we de- nounced a. popular movie. And as we sit here inflicting ourself on you for the last time, we feel a ple:usant glow-perhaps it's the sun on our back-perhaps the reflec- tion from F. H.'s florid imagin- ation. We even feel kindly toward G and wouldn't say anything to hurt him-in fact we very much doubt if we could. As to the local drayma. J. B. D. tells us that another super-spec- tacle movie starts at the Erie, the 2nd. \The Great Ziegfeld\ is the story of the great showman's life as told by his wife, Billie Burke to the tune of a fabulous sum of standing is the seed of many hu- man troubles. It will be long after the voice of this column is hushed. fet let us begin, however hard, to r·emove it. money. The \Glorifier of the American Girl\ is played by Wil- liam Powell and Miss Bm·lre by Myrna Loy-\because she's very like me,\ says Billie. Besides these two whimsy artists, there are Fan- nie Brice, the Howards, and a score of others whom Ziegfeld made famous. From all indications the produc- tion seer:ns to be more popular than the ill-fated \Midsummer Night's Dream\ even ~t the legiti- mate-scale prices. Anyhow the set- tings are magnificent, and there are more stars than you could put in your kitchen-or would want to -we think we shall go. If it hasn't already left town, by all means go to the Plaza and sec \The Perfect Gentleman.\ Cicely C-<Jurteneige, the English come- dienne is a riot. The cast is all veddy English, with the exception of Frank Mol'gan, Herbert Mun- din and Una O'Connor being pres- ent. The ga1·den party scene at the Bishop's auction is a gem. -T. S. ·t. GRADUATING 4 SENIORS Your Yearbook photographer is offe-ring spe· cial rates to you so that you may present a cap and gown photograph of yourself to mother, dad, sister, girl friend, or relatives. This offer holds good through commence· ment day. But why not decide 11ow and avoid the hustle of commencement week-end. • THE BOOTH STU·DIO Patton & Hall Bldg. 245 State St. Union 1 llamilt• Roches· Garnet Nin Deadlo With F1·eshman New Opp01 Lacross• On L Hamilton C orite opponel sport, invades gxounds tom, tinental base will be the fi rent campail Union, ha vin a like numbe break the de8 ton men will second wino victory ha vin Rochester las Hamilton h trous season ! mote games all of them lu gins, and thE preached Syr: only to lose Weber has a ers on his sb may be expec ible performa querer of Ro1 Clark, who h in several c triumverate, which one wi Jette, centerf man, followe< Millham, Ea Van Loan, M< Shinn, a foo ates at first, hitter, altho· whole is abou Linet Union will lineup from ' in the previo1 wold will toS! enson, while Fiore, Harry wallader will Phil Duchscl and Jim Ma out pastures, reserve. If 1 down and hit row, Hamilt< tim, but if In! were at Hartl Garnet will I the Continen· on to make t Frosl The freshn: Wednesday : two hours fo played half a back to Sche pour to off season. Ho'\\ slated for a played here c be this cant mine whethe1 successful or count stands lost. A resume that the ye: opener at G They then w: the tune of tilt to Drape game with E taineers we1 as condition seem to be t sterdam tilt, A. H. S. boy! ings of play, Roche~ The varsit' turn to its i afternoon w chester team will try to e ies and losse losl three m Rochester Hobart in r team is not threat to the The playex ably be Joe McGee, Fri Salad, \Doc Finch. Hawl and Finch, make up thE Sticl Onondaga be the oppo stickmen tc the Library squad lost Central by ! Coach Fr sending his pxactices v week. Joe P only player! ence on the cleus of the will start at Sumner Iri; :Borden anc defense. Ra ter will alsc in one of

an are we be rief of hu- hus re- or to in- ries an's he iso- and ons, has. dge, the us. be pian set ates in the to fif- fa- be- hu- d. to the Wil- by hese d a set- here put to by see all the s. union Teams Meet. To Pitch Against Httmilton llarnilton Nine and Rochester Netmen Garnet Nine Hopes to Break Deadlock in Contest With Clintonites F1·eshman Lacrosse Game· New Opponent Faces Frosh Lacrosse AggTeg-ation On Library Field GUY B. GRISWOLD TIIE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1936 Three Psi Upsilon, Take First Betas, Places South College Newly .Org~nized Frosb Tennis Team . T k 7811\ t MeetsPawbng'foday;R.P.I. Tomorrow lrt rae 1r.1ee ~---~----- RESUL1'~ OJ? THE 'TRACK MEET Fm te l'nity No.·of Points ft~nt:ranrP Additional Men HcorPd Points Points Psi Upcoilon ........ '' .. 11 37 4U 60.000 Beta Theta Pi •• 0 •••••• 7 29 40 47.009 South College 0 ••••••••• 8 26 1 ,', ·10 42.956 Sigma Chi •.••.••••.. 0. 8 19 40 • 30.799 Phi Delta Theta ....... 20 15 1 /, 40 25.125 Phi Sigma Delta ....... 9 9'.', 40 15.299 Chi Psi •••••• 0 ••••••••• 8 8 40 12.968 Kappa Nu ' ........... 0. 8 7 40 11.347 Phi Gamma Delta •.• 0. 9 6 40 9.726 Alpha Delta Phi ...... 0. 3 1:J 0 21.073 Alpha Phi Delta 6 0 40 0.000 Theta Nu Epsilon ..... 6 0 40 .000 Kappa Alpha .......... 1 a u 4.863 Phi Sigma Kappa ...... 5 2' :. u 4.0;:;2 Delta Phi • 0 •••••••••• 0. 2 0 3.2·12 Delta Upsilon . ......... 4 Kappa Sigma ........... 5 Sigma Phi ............. 1 121 Total Points 100 ooc 87.009 82.956 70.799 65.125 55.299 52.968 51.347 49.726 21 073 40.000 40.000 4.863 4.052 3.242 Austin Fox foaches Pawling; R. P. I. Prosh Considet·ed ~trong OpponentH The Union freshman tennis team, recently organized by Dr. H. LaUI ence Achilles, will play its first match this afternoon against the Pawling school, and the con- cluding match against R. P. I. fresh at R. P. I. The Pawling 8chool, which will be presenting its first team upon the Union cam- pus, is coached by Austin Fox '35, ptominent figure in athletics at Union for several years. The matches, five singles and two doubles, will be played on the home court.;, taking place about 2 o'clock. For R. P. I. the starting align- ment is fail'iy definite, but the Union lineup is problematical. The Garnet freshmen commenced to The other Garnet representa- tives, besides the top ranking three, are Phil Mitchell, Ed Wells, Ben Rathbun, Dave Miller, Tyler Dennett, and Pete DeWitte. Den- nett probably will not be available because of a knee injury sustained when ·he inadvertently slid into first base in an intra-mural soft- ball game. ---0·--- Garnet Tenn.is 'J'eam Loses Match to Colgate 7 to 2 The Union College tennis team was surprisingly beaten 7 to 2 by the Colgate racqueteers who had formerly :mccumbed to the Union players an the home courts. Win- ning none of the singles matches, the strong doubles teams came through to win two of the events for the only points for the Garnet .At Syracuse the netmen were worked out before the game was played. Summary: Hamilton Coiiege, always a fav- orite opponent of lJnion in any, sport, invades the Garnet stamping grounds tomorrow with its Con- tinental baseball team for what will be the fifth game of the cur-: rent campaign for the Garnet.· Union, having lost two and won, a like number, will be seeking to break the deadlock, while the Clin-. ton men will be striving for their • second win of the year, their only victory 'Ita ving been the defeat of Rochester last week, 4 to 2. Hamilton has had a quite disas- trous season so far, having dropped mote games than it has won, but all of them have been by close mar- gins, and the Buff and Blue ap- proached Syracuse in a tight game, only to lose by one run. Coach Weber has a triad of capable pitch- Two Varsity Teams Away Tomorrow Colg!lte Defeats Union Golfers, 7-2 INTRAMURALS practice only last Friday and sev~ era! of the players have yet to show the form they are capable 1 , 1 of. Throughout the past week in- formal matches have been played and irregardless of potential abil- r.:.;=============;::;:::;: ity the selections for positions will Wood ( Cl defeated Hawley (U) 6-2, 6-3. Parsons <Cl defeated Cohen < Ul 6-1, 1-6, 6-1. Coombs (C) de- feated 1-I<:!Gee <Ul 6-2, 6-4. Galpin tC) won from Orton <U> 6-4, 6-3. Quackenbos (C) defeated Salad (U) 3-6, 6-1, 6-3. Toeger (C) defeated Finch (U) 6-4, 6-3. Track Team Seeks Fomth Victory at Hamilton; Ten at Stevens ers on his staff, any one of whom The Garnet track and field team may be expected to turn in a cred- will travel to Clinton tomorrow for ible performance. Ed Kellogg, con- not much more than the ride. The querer of Rochester, and Betts and·. Hamilton boys have a ¥ery weak Clark, who have pitched good ball team, having fallen before R. P. 1. in several contests, compose the on the short end of a 91 to a5 count triumverate, but it is not known rhe C!intonites boast of one strong which one will start tomorrow. Gil- event-Avery, in the quarter mile lette, centerfielder, is the lead-off run. He appeared to good advan- m,a,n, followed in order by Fowl~r, ,age last year and should have im- Millham, Eagan, Wilson, Shitm, proved over his previous perform- Van Loan, Masters, and the pitcher. ,mces. Shinn, a football man who oper- Coach Ketz will probably talre a ates at first, is the most dangerous squad of twenty-five with him to hitter, although the team as a meet Union's ancient rivals. Half whole is about even in this capacity. this number could probably do the Lineup Unchanged same amount of damage to the Union will present an unchanged home boys, but it is a pretty nice lineup from what has been playing ride. in the previous contests. Guy Gris- The Garnet team this year is wold will toss them up to AI Stev- probably one of the best balanced enson, while Ernie Brown, Mike combinations that Union has ever Fiore, Harry Marra, and Dave Cad- had. Not particularly outstanding wallader will compose the infield. in any one event, the squad has a Phil Duchscherer, Doug Lambeth, roundness and steadiness that has and Jim Marotta will patrol the been lacking in most of the teams out pastures, with Billy Brandow in in the past. reserve. If the team can steady down and hit in the pinches tomor- Eight Seniors Gradua.ting row, Hamilton should fall a vic- Graduation will hit the team tim, but if matters continue as they hard since Jerry Neumann, Ed were at Hartford last Saturday, the Bastedo, Em Burton, Leon Nagus- Garnet will have a tough time for ·zewski, Chuck Krull, Joe Milano, the Continentals may .be depended Leon Saiewitz, Clark Shields-eight on to make things difficult. men who have been scoring points Frosh Rained Out for the Dutchmen fOT three years The freshmen traveled to Albany -will be lost to the team. Wednesday afternoon, waited for Burton and Naguszewski have two hours for the sky to clear up, shared the captaincy of the team played half an inning, then bussed this yea1• and will lead their team back to Schenectady in the down- against R. P. I. after meeting Ham- pour to officially conclude their ilton tomorrow. These two men season. However, Amsterdam is have consistently lead the squad slated for a post-season tilt to be in high scoring honors, averaging played here on Tuesday, and it will from ten to fifteen points each be this contest which will deter- meet. The remaining seniors have mine whether or not the season was also been invaluable in bringing the successful or not, for the present Garnet out ahead in most of the count stands at two won and two engagements that they participated lost. in. A resume of the season shows After the Hamilton meet the that the yearlings dropped their squad will take it comparatively opener at Green Mt. College 9-4. easy and concentrate on giving R. They then whipped Albany High to P. I. one of the worse beatings in the tune of 18-7, but lost the next years-although how it could be tilt to Draper, 19-10. In the return much worse than last year is hard game with Green Mt., the moun- to imagine. taineers were defeated 11-5, and ----o--- as conditions now are the frosh seem to be underdogs for the Am- sterdam tilt, for Draper held the A. H. S. boys to a tie In seven Inn- ings of play. ----o---- Rochester Net Foe The varsity tennis squad will re- turn to its home courts tomorrow afternoon when it meets the Ro· chester team here. The Union men will try to even its score of victor- ies and losses, having won two and lost three matches to date. Rochester defeated Buffalo and Hobart in recent contests, but its team is not considered too great a threat to the Garnet. The players for Union will prob- ably be Joe Cohen, Captain George McGee, Fritz Hawley, Bernard Salad, \Doc.\ Orton, and Clem Finch. Hawley and Cohen, McGee and Finch, and Orton and Salad make up the doubles combinations. ---o--- StiCkffiell Here Stevens Favored Unless Bill Harkness uncovers some new mid-field men for tomor- row's game against the strong Stevens Tech ten at Hoboken, N.J., the Union stickmen will be favored to take it on the chin for the third consecutive time this season. The Garnet lacrosse machine has won only two games this year and lost three. In the opening encoun- ter at Geneva, the Hobart men gave the Dutchmen a 20-8 trouncing. Dartmouth and M. I. T. were then met on successive days. The Ind- ians were defeated 9-5 on Jaclr Smith's last half scoring spree, and the Techmen were swamped 19-2. Syracuse brought a team largely composed of football men and Union was beaten 16-7. Last Satur- day Swarthmore rallied strongly to outscore the Dutchmen 20-9 in the last quarter. Smith Leads Attaclt The Union attack, led by Jack Smith's 21-goal effort, has been scoring enough points to win most Onondaga Valley Academy will of its games. The defense is so be the opponents of the freshman weak that even ten goals are not stlckmen tomorrow afternoon on enough to win a game. Don Liffi· the Library Field. The freshman ton and Bill Potts are doing yoe- k t s racuse man work on the defense but Burns squad lost last wee o Y Barford and Johnny Marsella are Central by a 19-0 count. d · 1 Coach Freddy Wyatt has be~n only fair goalies. Barfol' 1s wea;: sending his charges through datly on ground balls, while Marsella is •t this an uncertain quantity. practices with the varsi Y Union has its first All-American week Joe Paul and AI Borden, the only ·players with previous expel'i- lacrosse possibility this year in ence on the squad, will be the nu~ Jack Smith, since Chauncey F~ote cleus of the team. Mike Cappiello was nominated to the mythi~al will start at goal, Bill O'Connor and team in 1934. Smith has scored fn:e Sumner Irish are the points, while .goals or more in three games :his Borden and Hank Clay will play year, and has a four goal avela~e b W 1 to date. He is a good passer and IS defense. Ray Lewis and Bo ':- fast enough to out-maneuver most ter will also play part of the g.ame ·of bls guards when he desiles. in one of tile defense po.sibons. Players Lose Three This Week As They End Poor Season, Winning Only Twice The Union College golf team con- cluqed its Reason this weP!t, by los- ing three matches to. Middlebury, Williams and Colgate. Smnmary of Season In a total of seven matches the golfers won only two and lost five. They opened the season at Clin· ton against Hamilton on April 29. The Buff and Blue divot diggers took the Dutchmen easily 7-2 on the short college course. Colgate was met next and the Garnet gol- gers returned to Union on the very small end of an 8V2-lf2 defeat. In a return match on the Mohawk course, Union gained revenge for its previous defeat by downing Ham- ilton 5-4. Middlebury was then de- feated 6-0 the following day. Monday the team journed to Mid- dlebury and lost 8-1 in a return game. Bob Langer, being the only Union golfer able to salvage his match. Williams tacked a 61t~-2 1 h defeat on the Garnet linksmen at Williamstown. Langer and. Phil Little won their best ball encounter, while Langer won his individual match and Captain Monroe Froe- lich tied with his opponent. In the final match played with Colgate here yesterday, the Dutchmen lost a tough 5-4 match. Ken Brown, Monroe Froelich, and Phil Little won their matches and only Van Waldron and Brown were able to win a best ball match. Summaries: Colgate 5, Union 4. Individual matches: Little <Ul defeated Fay \C) 1 up; Stewart (C) defeated Langer (U) 8-6; Ftoe· lich <Ul defeated Noyes (C) 2 up; Adamson <C) defeated Emans <Ul 5-4; Brown (U) defeated Austin <C) 5-4; VanBenschoten defeated Waldron 1 up. Best ball matches: Fay and Stewart !C) defeated Little and Langer <Ul 4-3; Noyes and Adam- son ( Cl defeated Fl'Oelich and Emans ( Ul 3-2; Brown and Wal- dron (Ul Austin and VanBenscho- ten <Cl 5-4. Williams 6%, Union 2%. Individual matches: Dodge <W> defeated Little 2-1; Langer < Ul de- feated Swann <Wl 3-2; Froelich <U) and Freeman <Wl tied; Por- ter <W> defeated Ernans (U) 1 up; Huston (W) defeated Brown <U> 7-5; Young <Wl defeated Waldron <Ul 8-7. Best ball matches: Little and !Langer. <U> defeated Dodge and Swann <Wl 3-2; Freeman and Por- ter <Wl defeated F1·oelich and Emans 1 up; Huston and Young <Wl defeated Brown and Waldron (U) 7-6. ---0--- Tennis-Horseshoe Notice All tennis and horseshoe matches are to be played as soon as possible it was announced at the gymna- sium yesterday. MILK SO RICH YOU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Produced Under Strict Laboratol'y Control For Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 General lee Cream Corp. Comj>lt>!e Resul!s Through May 13 --- 1. Phi Delta Theta ...... 857.880 2. Psi Upsilon ............ 841.752 3. Phi Sigma Delta ...... 820.126 .J. Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . 794.a57 5. Chi Psi ............... 777.974 6. Eeta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . 694 370 7. Neutrals ............... 665.538 8. Sigma Phi ............. 662.488 9. Delta Phi ............. 633 550 10. Alpha Phi Delta ...... 612.699 11. Kappa Nu ............. 611.958 12. Phi Gamma Gelta ..... 581.209 13. Alpha Delta Phi ....... 558.011 14. DPita Up,ilon . . . . . 528.430 15. North College ......... 511.479 16. Theta Nu Epsilon . . . . . 495.108 17. Kappa Sigma .......... 413.327 18. South College ......... 412.817 19. Kappa Alpha ......... 291.765 20. Phi Sigma Kappa ...... 260.027 21. Theta Delta Chi ...... 218.747 22. Lambda Chi Alpha .... 181.878 23. Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131.131 ---0--- Results of Track Meet May 12 Ilroad Jump l Hi!fg>. llPta Th•ta Pi ......... l!o' ~\ :J.l\[o!lPI\. ['\i l\p><JIIOII •••.•••••• 1~·~·· :: Halad. !'hi ::-:ig\ma. Pdt:o ..... IS' ,, 'l.l'lltiOII. J)p]ln, I'l1i ...••....... J R' 3\\ ;;, ;)o.litdot'll. Si~ma l'hi ..•......•. 17' g·· J~tvelin 1. Annese, Rou til C\ollege ....... 130' 5\ 2. :Muroff, Ka.ppa Xu •.•••• , .•• 127\ 4\' 3. Hatdt, i'\i l\i'\ilon . . . . ..... l~:r s· 4. Llff!ton, !'.hi Pella Theta .••. 121\ 4\ ;;, \Yuh!, Kappa Xu •••••••.• , ... 117\ G\' High .Jump 1. H. Hmith, Beta Theta Pi . , ..... r.· s·· ~. Hhugg. Phi 1 :amma J1elta 66;;\ , :!. 'Tompkins. Pappa AI ph ........ 5\ 4·· 4, Yanoleo·.ar, I 'hi I •ella 'fheta .•... ~.· 2\\ 5. Enzer, South Co!lege ......... 5\ 1\' Efron. !'hi Higma !lP!ta ....•.. 5' 1\' Di>H'US 1. llennett, Alpha neltn. Phi .. 102\ 7%\' 2. <. ~hapin. Alplm llPlla Phi .. !t~1· ·P'2'' 3. Oatt\hell Psi l'p~ilon ... , . ~1';' Sl~\ 4. H. Hmith, T1t->ta Theta Pi ... ~1';' 1 i '' ;;, Thoruton, Phi I >ella Theta . !H' 9\' liD Y:ll'd nun l. Thompson. t 'hi P~i ...........• .r.5.1 ~- .. \llltt'!'-t:, ~uUI.h I '\llt•gt-· . . . . . . .. ~.6_1, 3. Ladu<>, Beta Theta Pi ...... , .. r.s.~ 4. Cro\hy 81gma <'hi ............ ~•7.·1 r1. Balier. P~i l~p~ilou ............ :iS.l 120 Yu.rtl Low H urdl~s 1. Pomatti, Houth Colle-g-€' ••...... , 14.!• 2. llPrrid<, Betn 1'h('ta Pi :1, ;lnlatl. Phi Sigma Delta I. llllt'h\' here1·. l·'Ri l\peilon .•. F.rietlman. Phi Higrna I •Pita BELLINGER PAINT CO. ARTHUR TRIGG, Prop. Paints. Oils, Varnishes Glass, Brusl1es and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY A FREE HAIRCUT • To the Union Player Making the First Home Run in the Game With Hamilton Saturday • THE ACME BARBER SHOP 509 UNION STREET \NEAREST THE CAMPUS\ be made on the basis of the results of these matches. Marv Dwore and Bob Carr were thought to be far above the other members but Doug Murphy, late of Passaic High, a tennis power among New Jersey schools, has shown that he deserves to be classed among the star pupils. Again:st Pawling five singles and two doubles will be played. This year the R. P. I. fro<Oh have been playing only six matches in all, four singles and two doubles. As- suming that Dwore, Carr, and Murphy will appear as singles per- fm mers, one place remains open. Doubles-Hawley and Cohen (U) defeated Woods and Coombs (C) 3-6, 6-4, 10-8. Parsons and Baker < Cl defeated McGee and Finch (U) 7-9, 6-3, 6-0. Salad and Orton (U) defeated Davis and Quackenbos (c) 3-6, 7-5, 6-3. GENERAL OFFICE EQUIPMENT CO. R. P. LA Winning Team 140 Jay St. Phone 4-9677 In their fimt match R. P. I. gave Watervliet High School a thor- oughgoing shellaclring, 6-0. In four singles matches of two out of three sets, the high school boys from across the bridge won exactly five games. R. P. I.\s number one Gon- zales prevailed over Balter of Watervliet 6-0, 6-2, and the other scores were correspondingly de- cisive, 6-0, 6-1; 6-0, 6-2; 6-0, 6-0. Drafting Supplies Paper Pencils - Fountain Pens TYPEWRITERS New Repaired Used Rented Shirts With Every Feature You'd Expect in a $2.00 Shirt Choice of 5 Collar Styles - Plain Colors and Prints. CERTIFIED $119 $2.00 VALUE '.... I Ship by and .sav~~ Railway Express can handle laundry /\! 'fS...,e packages for you very easily and J_J)-0 economically. Simply notify the folks /> i /7 ~ /Ye that you are shipping your laundry (,-J~,/ 1 by Railway Express and ask them to return it the same way. If you wish, you can ship \collect.\ It saves time and detail, and loose change. Railway Express is fast and depend- able and can be relied upon to get your laundry back as fresh and in as good condition as when it left home. So think the idea over and telephone Railway Express. Our motor truck will pick up the package at yoUI.- door at no extra charge • For Service or Information Telephone Cor. Wall & Liberty Sts. 'Phone 4-5612 Depot Office: N. Y. C. Station 'Phone 4-BS i 2 Schenectady, N. Y. RAILWAY EXPRESS AGENCY INC. NATION-WI DE RAIL-AIR SERVICE l I \I j

,, Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1936 Dr. Cadman, Radio Lecturer, Speaks On World Affairs llnimt Once Co-owner Of Fort Ticonderoga Of especial intere~t this Engineers Present\ C~emical So~iety '1o Hold At S .• . M ·t'\. Fmal Meetmg of Year pr1ng · ee Ing (Continued from Page 1) CALENDAR Tonigll.t 7.:15 p. m.-Society for Promo- ---· The Eastern New York Section tion of Engineering Education The semi-centennial celebration of the American Chemical Society Dinner, Hale House. of the founding of the national bon- will hold its 189th meeting, and the 7:30 p. m.-College Christian As- orary scientific society of Sigma Xi mont; C. G. !teen, Gettysburg.; R. last until next fall', on ·Fr.iday, May sociation Meeting, Room 20, , at Cornell Univer;;ity will take I-I. Rhoades, CornPll: L:hn.l'les E. 22, at 8:00 p. m. in the Chemical North Colonnade. plac-e· in Ithaca during, the summer Elle.ry to Read Paper · · At Sigma Xi Celebration Defends Right of Individual 'l'o Realize Himself ; Sees World at Cross !Roads week when the annhrersary of the taking of Fort Ticonderoga by Ethan Allen and hi:; Green Mountain Boys on May 10. 1775, is being celebrated is the fa.ct that Union CoHege was onct> joint owner of the old str·onghold. Rogers, Tri.nity; Albert .Sfl.htthe, Laboratory .of Union College. Dt•. 8:30 p. m.~Play Production ·meeting June 11 to the 26th, jt was 'Syr•acuse. Raymond M. Fuoss, Assistant Pro- Course Presentati<m of Ter- .. announced' yesterday; by Dr. Ed- ·E. A .. Salhm. CoopPt' Union: M. fessor of Resear.ch Chemistry at · ence's \·Phormia Mounte- , ·ward Ellery, national~· .secretary of F. Sayre, Union; vV. F. Su:wdon, Brown University, will be the prin- banks Theatre. Sigma Xi and professor of chemis- AHaclis Italian 'V ar For· over a cen.tury a vital fa<ctur in d'etennining the win- ner in the str.uggle between the French and British for supre- macy in the North Country and latet· of great strategic impor- tance in the American rebel- lion, Fort Ticonderoga after the Revolut-ion was abandoned and consequently raptdly deter- tutatt:Li. In l~Vl the .;\;ew Y<>il~ Stalt• Bu:ttd of Hl'gent:;, wl1ich lll~lt>atl Df ~~·o.u1ting :--tllll!'i of n1ont>~. \\' t:-; appl1rt iHning uu t Illlhi: :--.;ltt• ll\\fjt•d Jllll(lt'l~~. .~.1\''' !)':., (dd .f'llt tn rni,•n ~UHf ('.,lmnhi'l C'ollegP>' . Comell; H. 0. Sharp, R, P. I.; W. cipal speaker. His topic will be Tomon·ow t t U · C 11 ·!. Slitcher. Columbia; ~. B. Smith, . ry a 'nron o ege. C C N y E D _ S . p \Recent Work on Electro!'ytes;\ 9:00 a. m.-Registration for . A two-day program for June ('ails II Duce \Public Enen1.y Number One of W orW' In Lecture Here 'l'tlt-sdav ·Mav 12. · iudentlv tiP· ft·nJing t·l;,. t·tg.ht of tltt· mdll:'ttiu~rl ttJ +t•altZP htnlc<Plf. llt. ::-;. ·l'atlu·, l'adnlull, Htuuh.l)n tadtd JJtt·.u.:llt,.;!, j t!t-tlutni that tl·ll' 1\utlJ •~ c.t);.Ult .at ·lhl' t'lOS:-. 'lOUd!\ lrl hi:- it·cttll't', >ipun:;oretl by the \\'oe:;tiua l'ltut dt in 'Memorial Chapel tolllght. He ll'nneu the pte:;..,nl pt•ttutl a~ one brtwePnthe age that dit·d wit·h the Wol'ld Wat· and the agt> that· was now o;tt·uggltng to t·umt• m lu existence. The :;peaker li<·lved mto mlet·mtttunul artauo; <'uletlllg a wide range uf territory. Itt•\ il'\n Eeunumic Dt'\ t•lupnu·nt After comn1rnting on t hp Pnorm- ous recent economic development in Russta, Japan and Tut hey, Dt. (adman stated, ''I' 11 accept nu ecu- num ic theory, howeV<'l' t em pti ng to my materia!i:;tic :;iue, that t..lc- me, the 1 lght uf the Ju<.lov tdual tv realize himself.\ He launcheJ a savage attack on \the oldest Cht ist- ,\ftt·t· .n•tam ing tilt• fot t in tht·ir po,;H;,;oton for· nint'l Cl'n Y\:tr:<. t h•• cnl'lPgP:; WPt e glad .to SPII it in n~20 t'() William Fell of Alban_y. T:nton College te- rl'ivt•d three thouHand dollats. T,b, Pe II family still owns the 'ltnnglHdd and hav•• rt•built and kP pt in 1 ,, pair the old fot·- tn'\~· f'uJJit•o of tilt· <~! iginal dt•t•tl:-<, birH.lm,; the fimd ~ale ol f:o'urt Ticontl••wga to tlw Pelb a1e in the L'nion College libtary. Reeves Will Be Managet· Of Debating Next Year ian nati.~n in ~urope·: fur w?-ni~g Char·Ies Reeve:; '37, was recently on thP olde><t Chn~ttan natton m \PP\inted nwnng•'l' of 1hP dPbntint.: A~~-~~a ~mi. relettcll tu ~lu:;::,utwt 1 tean: fo.r 1~3li-37, tt was announced as pu~Itc;, enemy numbrt one of .by r.reuenck \Vya.tt, faculty mem- the world. ber m charge of debating, Reeves ~!·. Cadman attac!'ed the Ver- is the only officer yet chosen for sallies treaty for bemg based on either the debating team o1· the the false premise that Germany Phi!omathean Society for the com- was solely guilty for the war. He ing vear. continued with an attack on ex- This year· Ree·ves has been secre- cessive gover·nment, refening tat·y of the Pht'lomath s · t ean o~te y obliquely to Washington. \Every and has taken a pmminent part in fr·eedom you have here tonight hat:! the activitte:; of the debating team. been gained by restricting govern- H h· 1 b ment,\ he said. \Minorities are e .. ~s a so een se.ct etary o~ the m<JI'e often right than majol'itiPs. Clas~tcal Club a.nd ts a candtdate manager for \IJl'lll\\ spor·ts He ha~ You can't suppress minorities and . . . . , • . \'. . · . ~ maintain a great nation.\ I bel n °. 11 tbt De.un s Ltst conttnu- . ouHly stnc<· enter mg college. He has H_ts forecast for the futute. was abu been 1 ecently appointed chair- mote hopeful. He .called Amencans man of t h«' Union delegation to the a people of great tdealo, ant.! hoped Mo<.lt•l Council of the Lea u f N _ for a peace based on justice. (~er- !ions. g e 0 a many. Italy. and Rus>ia would have to tinct their way bacl<, he concluded. -----0--- Union Ft·aternities Elect Reeves, a rE>sident of Schenec- tady, prepared for college at the Mont Plea,.,;ant High School. He is a member of the Delta Upsilon fra- !t>rnity. ----0--- Heads for Coming- Yeat· Philip A. Smith Named All but one, Delta Upsilon, of the t.w~nty nnt ion a I frat em itiP>< at Instntctor at Harvard Union han• P!Prtt·J new officPn for C:unlu·idgP Ma'ls :\fa. 1\ 1936-37. :\lany of thP chaptc·t:-< lu•ld 'Phili!J A ~mltlo 1 .L., ' ~ ·t>. ·' tl · · I• ·t · . f h j • • Ia:-, Pt>rl apJHJIIl t'u let! • 1 ~ mt>rtrng~ u t t• rutteont 1 in~ttudt>t in En~li,.;h and tutcw m p•ur· la,;t nt.: ht · . · I ttw dl\lstu!l of tnodetn lang-uage~ 'fhe newly e! .. rl!'cl rhapt<·t lH<',i-, at llatvwd, it was announced to- Jent:; ate: Alpha DP!ta Phi, Ri<'h- ~ ciHy by lh<' >\<'<'tl'laty of the uni- ar·c! Snydet; Alpha Phi Dt>lta, Etl- ; ,.,., Hity. w~rd Cnmmutotta; Beta Theta Pi, I !1.11- ~ntith has bf•pn at Union V1bett Fryct·; Chi Psi, H<>nry Stt•· 'Hinc-e 1930 and whiiP at Harvard phen:mn; Dt>lta Chi, Thomas :.\!c- 'wht•re ht-> was )(I anted hb M. A. ue~ Collough; DP!ta Phi, Richdtd g't<'t>, he will clu further graduate Keyes; Kappa Alpha, Earl Dewey;· study. H<' t·ec·eived his ·bachelor dP- ~ppa N~, .Jerome Cohen; Kappa j g-re•• at Bowdoin College. Stgma, Wilham Potb;; I.ambJa Chi .:-~-;;;;:;;:;:;;;;;;_:;;;:;;;:;;:;;:;;:;;;:::., Alpha, Louis Thomp:;on; Ptii Up~i- 1 ri Ion, Frank Gatchell. <:ompleting the list are: Phi Gam- ma Delta, Wells Dennison; Phi Sig- ma Delta, Harvey Lifset; Phi Sig- ma Kappa, Robert B. Russell; Sig-[ ma Chi, James Estrich; Sigma Phi, Laurence Achilles; Theta DPlta 1 Chi, John Half; Theta Nu Epsilon. Arlington Baxter; Phi Dt•lta Tht•ta, Melvin Hargraves. ---0---- lnternteJ i11 Sr/,nzntaJy /JttertsteJ in UNION Maurice B. Graubart T lu illy Street Jeweler llJ6 jAY STREET ll'atdt and }d;·dty Repairiug a Specialty Law School Club A wm·ds M~mbel'ship ~ertifi~.ates j 'lhur!->da,,, na~ II. Cc~ t\t<~h\ ~~~~~~-~--~-~~~~--~~~~~~~~ cof hnnom.ry m<'mbPr,hip m t h\ I:= linton College Club of the Btookl;yn Law School will b!' awarded to fi V•• prominPnt New Yorken at t.he annual opring dinner of the Club at the Ct escent-Harnilton Club 12!1 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn. ' 'Those to be honored are Dean William Payson Richardson of t h .. Bt-ooltlyn Law Hehool, FP<.letal Judge Hobert P. Pattetsun, JaJclt·o E. Finegan, President of 1 he Mu11icipal Civil Service Comm.i\· sion, William Dike Reed, and l\!ar· tin H. Weyrauch. With the t•XrPp· tion of Dean Richardson, the ~eclpients of the award ate ulumni of Union Colleg<'. The 8econcl group of a ttor nn·, to be hono1ed at a future dalP aie !firarn C. Todd, special proseeutor 1n. ~he Druckman investigation; Wilham J. Smith, Professor Edwin L. I...a Crosse, William G. Brown. Cortlandt Poey, Sr., Henry A Uter- hart, Joseph G. Fenster. and James Dean Allen. JlMERICAN A 1 LAliNDRY 20% DISCOUNT CASH and CARRY 1030 Barrett St. Phone 4·3166 JAMES E. DAY, Optician Po .. ,ctiptions Filled or Duplic·atPd Gettetal Depair Work rlflt t:nion Sl., Cur. nal'l'ett. St. 3 Blol'it<' Belo1v C'ollege Gate I•HO!'J E 2-3164 FOR BETTER AND QUICI<ER SERVICE CALL BALL·s Phone 2-3456 or Bring Work to 63 3 State Street BALL'S Cleaners and Dyers Inc. Shoe Rebuilders · · · -: · · . mtth, · ratt The annual election of officers M · .•.19-20 is being ·prepared.. at the. sum- In;;t.; R. L. Spencer, Univ. of Dela- eetmg of Society for Promo- \ ware; c. H- StPphens, Nkw. Coli. will also take place at this meet- tion of Engineering Educa- mer ·meeting for the: semi-centen\ E ing. The nominating committee tion, Geneval Engineering· . nlal celebration. of ngr.; A· C. StevenO:>, G-E: Co.; · t f D G d h · ' Outstanding le. adersi .in the f1'eld t'T. H. StPwm·t, u. :;:;, ArsPnal, Watpr- . cons1s s o r. 01' on, .c Rl·l1man, Bldg. vliet; warren c. Taylor, Union; E. Dr. Geget1heimer, Dr. Van Klooster, 2:00 p. m.-BasebaU, Union vs. of chemistry aH ove:rr the United 1 Th 1 G E c G Th Dr. Knudson, and Dr. Hurd. Hamilton, Alexander Field. States will be present, at the anni- ·~. ear e, - ~.; · · · rt tcher, versary program. :'warthmor~; {'. R. Thomas, and R. Dr·. Fuoss, who since his gradua- Tennis, Union vs_ Rochester at A th J. 1-leffnet·, l:ie!l Tl'le[ihune La~ul,L- liun ftum HulVUI'U eni.vetsity in . Schenectady. lllDng e· papers which will be ,ory, Nc•w y- 01 k. 1925 has call'ied on graduate work!. Freshman Lacrosse, Union vs. ·read at the first meeting on Fri- W. H Btl ne 11. ( ;.Jo: C'ompa 11 y: J. :.t :\Iunil'h, l\1ichi~an, anll I3 1 own. 1 Onondaga Academy at Sche- i day, June 19, will be one on a brief . \. UulL..t d. \ ••tmont; A. Hu·,- a'] ian. \\\' in 1!133 an lnt<·tnatlonal Rt•- 1 ne~tady. hi:; tory of Sigma Xi by Dr. Ellery. 1;-t-:., \\'. J.,L\t'l,\Pl\·ll. :\l•>! .. tll.lcl'. 11 I., •t< h Ft·llu·\· at _I:•·ipzi.,; and at 1 3·00 p. m.--·F!·p~hman TPnni~. Dr. W .F. Dm·and'. p1·e;;ident uf _ •• ·! :\ltll-. 1-. 1-. <'an·:.\a• i·•l. c:., 11 ,J 1 C':nnh.nd~\ 1 lll\'Pt\lt\t<'' ln 1g3~ ht·' Union vs. R. P. L, Troy. Bign1a Xi, Pre;;ident L1ving~ton ,Jyn Pnly J.n l't : 1 .. \\' ('larll It. P. was the r<'C'ipient of thF Am.erkan I· M d : Fen·antl uf Council, President H. C. r on fly Conklin of the American Associa· l ;. Tl;eu Ct. burn, .lol:n \\'il•·Y and: ht•mkal Sol'it·ty awu't d in Putt>' 7:00 p. m. Band Rehearsal, Li- .·tion for the Advancement of Sci- :>uu,, Inc.; l'a ul S. Ct eagct, H. ut- ChemititJy. ·j br·a·ry Ft'eld. l' · : ence, Dr. Max Mason, president of .~\ts IIIV · 1\. \\' na,·i,;on, H. P. fk. Fuos;;' ta·lk will .be r<>neernrd' the Rockefeller Foundation; Dr. '!.; F. L. Ehlmann, C:nlumhia Fniv.; with g-enPral case of ·solutions of. C t B d Karl T. Compton, pr:esident of M. John G. Fairfield, R. P. I.; Geo. electrolytes in organic :;olvents. He ommencemen t•oa casts W. Famham. IntPrnational Text will substantiate and verify hiO:> I. T., and Dr. Willis R. Whitney, Bouk Co.; E. A. l•'\ 1~. 1'. finding,; concerning I t 1 ·t· Thursday, May 14.-Two radio .:vl~e\president of. the General Elec- 1 ( J e ec 1o ~ IC b tnc Company m charge of re- .. ; ; . Fi..id..r.l'nion. J 1\:. Finch, ptopt·rti .. s with t:xperinHntal data. toadca:;ts of the Union College'.· . 1 . 11 b. , 1 h . ~'olumbia. I Commencement exercises in Ju ,.,eat c l .wl e among t te ot er no· Also F. ·~. B:• '·S, Coo.pt:'r 1 'nion: Before the mePting a dinnpr will will be carried ov th N t nel :tables present. hl' SPI Vt>d for m«'mbers and vteJtor:,; 1 , • er . e a to nil; ----~-- F'. \\'. (it·oH·t. S. J. Hat'fn<·t·, allll 1 t' 311 r th 0 . . H II . 1 Rroadcastmg Company s system 1t A. Hall. t..:niun: N. Hilltmt·y. :\. Y. ~~ .. ~~ H~t:se. \ n<'w Inln~ a 111 wa\'. announced t_oday. On Jun~ 7 U.; Wnt. A. Lynch, F1ank E. 1\ll·t·ts. ____ 0 ___ _ statiOn WGY Will broadcast the M. D.: !IL D. Whitaker. ~. Y: l'.; ·I Baccalaureate services from 11:15 A. D. Hinkl<·y. Coluu.l.Jia. A II. Hewitt President of A.$.('. E •. to 12:00 noon and on June 8 from k,•t;; Tt·ch. Sdwol; H. !\I. J,·ukins. ---- ment ceremonies will be transmit- FA TRONIZE \CONCORDY\ ADVERTISERS CHARLES' Formerly ED'S Hoo.dley, Urrion; C. A. Hod:.:•·. Yon- I the same station the ·Commence- .;;w:nthmot··: n:uct• .Tnhn·'t\n :tnd Tu .... d~t~·. :\'Ia~ 1. ~arnuel I!Pwitt. ted through the NBC networ·k from \\'al tet· ,\ Jolt thon, Colunob b; J. of Ball,; tun Spa wa\ elected pt·e.\t' _ 11:15. to. 11':45. Tl1~ Official Uulou l;ullege Bat·b.,r s ,, for the pasL 26 y~ars. Ask any . Kinney. R. P. I.: !\lcHI;n King.· dent of the Union College chapte 1 It IS mtended that the b~oadcast Uf>per classmeu. they know. 11 Lafay<>tte; '\\'. A. Laning, Gettys- of the Amel'ican Society of ·Civil on June 8 shall include the entire OJ>eratOI'S. S<•henectady's gt·earest burg College. EnginPPI'>' tonight at the last Honorary Chancelor's addr·ess and ~arber. Abu 1!. 1~. I'••·Htll •·. L. li. :\h.ttL'. tJttTl>~.,.; of tlte , .. a~uu, Itdu ul t!J,· lhf· in!toclurtion byPrP~itlPnt D'ixor; l'Oit. S'I',\TF. ASII llltO,\llWAV M. M. Bm·ing, <1 E: H. R. Compton hnnw of ProfC'\SOt' Wa! nn c. Tay-~~~R~y~a~n~F~o~x~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ and C. 0. Dohrenwend, R. P. !.; C. lor. ~ · D. Fawcett, Univ. of P«'nnsylvania; William Male, of Schen-ectady ~\--- J E. R. McKee, Vermont; F. S. 'Egil- was elected vire-pr·esident; Richat·d sand, Pratt Institute; E. W. Stan· Keyes of Mt. Vet non, secret at y, and and F. H. 'I'allman, Cooper Union; James Newton Ritchey of Schenec- H. M. Faigenbaum, R. P. I.; G. B. tady, treasm·er. Karelitz, Columbia University; C. -:;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;:;;;;:;;;;;;;~ 1 A. Pierce, Wor·cester Poly. Inst.; H. ir B. Howe, R- P. I.; G. A. Bom·delais and J. D. M:cCrum, SwaJ thmore. Also H. B. Millington, Vermont; H. W. Blarkbum, Syracuse; R. M. Ttiest. John Wiley; G. B. 'Thum, Swarthmme; Robt. W. Abbett Union: P. L. Alger. G. E.: Brothe~ Aubert. Manhattan College; G. F. Bateman. Cooper Union; H. Ba um, C. C. N. Y.: Robin Beach. Brooklyn Poly. Inst.: E. J. Berg. Unio11; C. T. Bishop, Yale; F. L. Bishop, Univ. of Pittsburgh: J. S. Thompson, Mc- Graw Hill Book Co.; John N. Ved- der, Union; C. C. Whipple, Brook- lyn Poly., and S. B. Wiltse. R. P. I. Recognized For Quality and Service Sclaenectady Engraving Co. Engravers for the Concordiensis 147 JAY STREET Telephone 4·9002 Try New MOBILGAS Friendly Service by the Socony Twins TED and JED UNION and JAY S'TS. SCHENECTADY George the Bartender says- Beat Hamilton! Sock the Ball Whip It Around and Go To Towrt COLD'S Resin nt·anl-'l'llll Ito om- IJolli'tl tessen 631 STATE ST. I i ....., ______ ---- _____________ --.-::.-:_-:__- ----~'::'::':._~.-· _-.:_-_--_- _-_ --~----- --~-11 PINE GROVE DAIRY 118 S. Ferry Street Schenectady, Ill. Y. THE Printing Where Union always men are welcome. CAZETTE .. . . Engraving PRESS .. . . Binding I SPORT BACKS in the new 1'936 Palm Beach Models. Smart ... authentic. In solid tones and checks and plaids. $16.75 Coat and Trousers EXTRA SLACKS $5 FesH To Pro1 Ade I .(Page I Vol. LIX, 1: THE DONET1i Albert R . lyit is th Cup; Sp~ cordiensis Sigma Xi. man, he scl10larsbi Harvard.

