._9che- vio- ay night. n usher- with Phi first an.- Ex- and rull before awarded de- the Con- Sts. for 5 \aris· ts. He nected e with show smany all the All-College Ball Elaqiorate I• Social function \ z 511 • • Glee Club tS Embarks On Concert Series Vol. LXI., No. 29 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS Glee Club Embarks On Concert Series. Next WeekTuesday Play Production Class His First Picture Ready Plans Completed For Celebration. I Gym Dorm Resurrected . For Day as Old Jim Dorn All College Ball Will Be Elaborate Social Function Will Hazard Shakes pear~ A modern dress performance of \Coriolanus\ by William Shakes- .peare will be th.e next presenta-. tion of the Play Production' Concert Sponsored by First , Course. ''Cor-iolanus\ will be pre- se:nted in cooperation with ad- Columbia Teachers Ass'n vanced classes in Shakespeare con- At Chatham ducted by Dr. Harold W. Blodgett. Dance Will Follow Second Joint Concert, Union Skidmore Scheduled Late in February The Union College Glee Club will be the guest of the Filst Columbia Teachers' Association when they will give a concert next Tuesday night at Chatham, New York. The concert will be held in the Chat- ham High School at 8:15 p. m. and a dance will follow with music sup- plied by the Garnet Goblins. The Glee Club has also completed arrangements for a cecond jolpt concert with Skidmore College late in Fberuaty at the Union College Memorial Chapel. A chorus of 30 men will go on the trip under the leadeJ·ship of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh and Student Leader James W. Scott, '38. Dr. Tidmarsh has selected a widely varied program, including :>everal numbers from two of Wagner's most famous operas and a medley of Union College's most popular songs. Following the Shakespeare play Barrett H. Clark's English. versio:n of \The Wolves\ by Hmnain Rol- land will be presented in conjunc- tion with history classes. This mod- ern play deals with forces in the French Revolution, emphasizing the unheroic elements attendant with violent changes in gov€rn- mental structure. ----<>---- College Thespians May Make To11r Hig·h Cost (){ 'Transportation Will Limit 'Trip to New Yo1·k State The Mountebanks have rece-ived :tn offer of spnnosrship for a pe-r- foimance of Martin Flavin's ·'Criminal Code\ in Newburgh, and if this engagement is made, it is ·planned to have a \road tour\ dur· ing the Spring vacation. April 2 through 11. CHARLES D. COBURN Of Founders' Day General Electric Short Wave Stations Will Broadcast Entire Program Romeyn Tablet Provided Dr. Demarest, Lewis Sebring Will Be Principal Speakers Alumni of Union College, and ft iends and parents of Union men, throughout the world will be able to join in the celebration of Founders' Day on Friday, February 25. The Union College News Bureau has completed arrangements with the General Electric Company's powet- f.ul short wave stations, W2XAD and W2XAF, to broadcast the en- lire program from the Memcrial Chapel flom 11 to 12 E. S. T. In addition, there will be a spe- cial fifteen minute broadcast from the studios of WGY at 6:15 p. m. This program may be broadcast a·Jso on the NBC network, but aU events will also be broadcast by W2XAD and W2XAF'. The Union CoUege Glee Club will be invited to take part in the spe- cial radio program, and the club will also sing at the morning exer- cises in Chapel. Alumni Informed When a resident of ,the Old- gym Hall forgets to use its new name, stl'ange things are apt to happen. One of the dormitory fresh- men gave his address as \Union College, ca.re of Old Gym Dorm\ in buying from one of the local department stores. When the bill arrived, it was addressed to him at \Union c·ollege, Schenectady, N. Y., care of Mr. James Dorn.\ Council of Greeks Devises Program May Aid in Bringing Another Exchange Student Here; To Aid Scholarshil) An ambitious schedule of activity is being planned by the Interfra- tet·nity Council, according to an an- nouncement made today by Chair- rr:an Robert Denzlet·, '38. Besides the sponsoring of an all-college dance on interfrate1nity Weekend, the Council is undertaking r·esearch in other widely difi'eren t fields. In cooperation with the college administration. the Council is con- sidering the pos:;ibility of housing anothet· exchange .student. Accord- ing to Denzlet·, such a student would be selected through a na- tional student organization. Most Sumptuous Affair Since Extravaganzas of Pre- Depression Era Jack Lanny, Boys Play Flags of 41 Nations Will Decorate Grim Alumni Gymnasium The first important mid-winter social event in many years on the campus is being arranged by the Student Counc.JI in the second fo·I- mal All-College Dance which will take place Saturday night, Feb- I'Uary 5, in the Alumni Gymnasium. Not since pte-depression days will here have been a social func- tion with such a wide attraction as the coming dance, and all frater- nity a.nd non-fratetnity groups are expected to join in the festivities. The administ! ation has co-operated with the Council in extending the closing hour for dancing on Satur- day night from 12 to 1 a. m. Dancing will start at 9 o'cloclt to music played by Jack Lanny and his Imperial Collegians. The gym- nasium will be decorated with a definitely \Union College touch,\ according to David L. Yunich, chairman of the dance. Novelty Number Mr. Enzer, gt·aduate manager, said la,;t night that the offer for the Newburgh engagement carne .from Isabelle R. Scott, a well known professional concert rnan- ager, who has been acquainted with the worl1: ·Of Mountebanks for · several yea1•s. Miss Scott had As a novelty the singers will pre- booked \Squaring the Circle\ for a sent their latest musical creation performance in New Jersey in 1936 entitled \Union's Big Broadcast\ or but this M:onlstown engagement \Your Time to Howl.\ The song was cancelled when the sponsors is a combination of political and discove1·ed that the comedy con- musical satire, with impersonations cerned life in modern Russia. Charles D. Coburn, director of the Mohawk Drama Festival, will ap- pear soon in his first motion pic- ture, \Of Human Hearts,\ which is scheduled for release on Febru- ary 12. He play,;; the part of Dr. Shingle in the picture which is concetned with Civil War days in Ohio. Last year General Philp Schuyler was memorialized at the first for- mal Founders' Day convocation principally because Dirck Romeyn, the leader in the founding of Union College, was more or less a mysteri- ous unknown. Since then an inten- sive research .investigation has pro- duced a thick volume of biographi- cal data and Union College will now pay full honor to the Dutch Reformed pastor who had the fore\ sight to unite all denominations Dnd lead the campaign to estab- lish a non-sectarian college at Sche- nectady. The Council has gone on record as favoring an investigation of \Hell Week\ and plans to make several recommnedations in rega1d to it. The work of investigation and consideration of the various. aspects of this problem is being done by the Council acting as a body. Flags of 41 different nations where Union alumni are now resid- ing will decorate the hall, and lighlll to play on the floor and ceiling will be rigged up Saturday. The Union College and its ftaternity banner:; will also be part of the decorations which the dance committee b pre- paring for the event. Tyler Den- nett, '39, and John Krull, '40, are assisting Yunich. of the foremost figures In the pub- Three possible \tours\ are being lie eye. The skit will be under ~~e considered by the Mountebanl~:s leadership of James Scott. Ph1hp Executive Committee, one dovvn Duchscherer, '39, and Everett Full- the Hudson River to New York, er, '39, will accompany at the piano. one westward to Buffalo, and one Handel's famous piece, \Where'er towards Boston. Mr. Enzer pointed You Walk\ and \'The Blind Plough- out that because high rates lintel- man,\ by Clark, both familiar pieces. state Commerce Commission stand- with the Glee Club, are included on ard.sl appli€d to tmnsportation of the program. The solist at the .con- the ~ompany and scenery to out-of- cert Saturday night will be Charles state engagements, it is quite likely Berger, '38, tenor, and Kenneth that the Spring tt·ip will be wholly Streeter, '39, baritone. within the bounds of New York After compleling one more pic- ture, Mr. Coburn will return here eaJ ly in April to assume supervi- sion over the preparations for the forthcoming season of the Mohawk Drama Festival. At the next meeting representa- tives of several wholesale distrib- utors will outline a possible co- opetative buying program for the fraternities in staple producb. The lnterfra ter·nity Council is also planning to make several scholarship awards. A committee, headed by Frank VanDyke, '39, and Charles Hunike.!, '38, is working on this s1,1bject. Patrons for the dance were also announced today. They are: Mr. and Mrs. H. Laurence Achilles, Dr. and Mrs. William W. Bennett, Dr. and Mrs. G. Marcellus Clowe, Dr. and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Dr. and Mrs. Charles B. Hurd, Dr. and Mrs. Harold A. Larrabee, Professor and Mrs. Mortimer F. Sayre, Dr. and -----D·--- Th t · t Cl tham Wl'll start State,-in which a thousand miles Sigma Phi Offers New German Prize Dr. William H. S. Demarest, piesident·emeritus of Rutger~ Uni- versity, one of the leading his- torians of the Dutch contributions to American culture, and Lewis B. Sebring, Jr., '23, night city editor of the New York Herald Tribune, will be the principal speakers. Another committee, consisting of Frank A. Freihofer, Jr., '38, Sta.n- )ey Kollin, '38, and Lon Barringer, '39. is drafting a constitution for Mrs. Frank J. Studer, Dl'. and Mrs. Charles N. Waldron, and Mr. and Mrs. Hlmer L. Webb. e r1p o · 1a 1 t the Glee Club on its annual 2,000 separate the two farthest po n s. mile tour back and forth across Invitations to potential sponsor- New York State. The college sing- ing groups w!H be mailed t:his week. Wh€n the sets for \Crim- ers officially opened its season on inal Code\ are built, it is planned Januaty 22 with a concert at the 'Jl Grenwich High School at Grenwich. to use specifications which vv1 Prize Is in Honor of Elias Peissner, Ex-Union Col- lege Professor A tablet memorializing Dirck Romeyn will be unveiled, and many value Romeyn \memorabilia\ which have been collected this year will be on displa,y. the Interfraternity Council. Meanwhile, plans for the pro- posed Interfl•aternity-dance in March are rapidly being formu- lated, according to Denzler. An announcement concerning the dance will be made later. Tax on tickets for the dance will be $1.50 until tomoirow night at 5 o'clock. The pl'ice will be raised to $2.00 after that time. Tickets may be secured at ali fraternities, the bookstore, student activities office and the news bureau. permit easy transportation of the Future Plans properties as well as insure their fitting into the smallest stage on the road tour. ---o----·· Union Outing Club Plays Host to I. C. 0. A. Tentative arrangements have· been made for the annual trip to Binghamton, Jamaica, and Elmira. Arrangements are being m~de for an appearance on Long Island on the afternoon of February 18, to be followed by a concert before the Union College alumni in New Yorlt. The Outing Cltib will entertain An invitation has been received New York and New England mem- from the Men's Glee Club of the ·hers of the Intercollegiate 0)1ting University of Buffalo to participate Association this coming weekend, in an Intercollegiate Musical Festi- February 4th to 6th, with a ski val with many other prominent col- meet at Gore Mt. Delegations are lege glee clubs. expected from Amherst, Massachu- setts State College, R. P. 1., Skid- more, Smith, Vassar, Vermont, Middlebury, Dartmouth, and Syra- cuse. ---·o--- Union Campus in Bustle Despite Mid-Year Exams Though the student body was in- active last week, students were giveh the opportunity of hearing three famous personages who made appearances on tbe campus. On Wednesday afternoon, Janu- ary 26th, the American Society of University Women was host to Tristram Coffin in the Memorial Chapel. Mr. Coffin gave an address on poetry and also recited several selections which he had written. The skiing activities will be cen- tered on the Gore Mt. trails, aJ- thoug.h so-me more ardent sldiers will undou:btedly attempt the n um- erous cross-country trails in the section. The program will begin o-n Fri- day with registration and skiing on lighted slopes in the evening. Sat- urday and Sunday morning wiU also be spen.t in skiing. Oh Satur- ·day evening the participants will have dinner at a winter ski J(Jdge followed by square-dancing and singing·. · The coming ski-meet is the third such event sponsored by the Out- ing Club. The two previous met \vith marked success. The Union delegation will be limited. to twelve men this weekend because of in- sufficient accommodations. UNION DEBATES WELLS The Alpha Chapter of Sigma Phi has announced that beginning this June, a series of annual prizes will be given by the fraternity to sen- iors for exceHcncc in· German, in memory of Colonel Elias Peissner, professor of German language and literature at Union, in the middle of the last century, killed In the Civil War. Averill T. Stewart, '39, represent• ing the fraternity, stated that the prize, to be given to the senior most proficient in the study of Ger- man through his college course, will consist of an order up to the amount of about ten dollars to be placed on a New York publishing house by the receiver of the prize for a book or books in German. The award does not require four years' study of the language. Born In Bavaria Postcards announcing the broad- casts are being mailed to aU Union alumni outside the United States, and to those graduates living in this country, so they may be pre- pared to tune in. Annual Block U Dinner Will Be Held March 30 The Block U Committee has se- lected Wednesday, March 30 as the date for this year's dinner it was announced today by William Hawkes, chairman of the commit- tee. This will be the eleventh in the series of annual dinners feting Union's athletes. As in previous years, the dinner will be held in Alumni gymnasium. The Committee has made no final selection of a speaker to date. Sev- eral men prominent in the sports firmament are under consideration. definite action will be taken until However, it is probable that no February 11, at which time George Daley, '02 will be on the campus in his capacity as Honorary Fellow in Athletics, and will confer with the committee on its choice of a speaker. In announcing the prize, Stewart recalled the life of Elias Peissner, who was born in Bavaria in lB26. After a· preliminary education, he attended the Gymnasium at Arn- berg and later the University of Munich where in 1849 he received his bachelor's degree. Journeying to America, Peissner soon settled as a tutor of Latin in Schenectady. In 1852 Union made him an hon- orary member of Phi Beta Kappa and three years later engaged him , Union Men Voted Civic Awards in Two Cities as a full-time professor. That Union graduates take their ----0 Former Union Associate Professor Hies in N. J. John Macdonald, former associate professor of building construction at Union College, died last evening at Dumont, N. J. An expert in build- ing construction, he served at Union College from. 1924 to 19Z3. Mr. Macdonald supervised the construction of the Sterling Library. at Yale University and of the Stein- way Building in New York City. While working on the latter job he met Louis J. Horowitz, founder of the Thompson-Starrett fund for building construction, who per- suaded him to come to Union Col- lege. A graduate of New York Univer- sity in the class of 1906, Mr. Mac- donald was construction superin- tendent for C. T. Wills, Inc. from 1906 to 1916. He served as construc- tion superintendent for the Thomp- sen-Starrett Company from 1916 to 1924. He was a member of the Ameri- can Society of Civil Engineers and the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education. ---0 BOY OR GIRL? Advance reports on ticltet sales indicate that the college is giving overwhelming support to this sec- ond all-college affair. And the dance series Is rapidly on the way to becoming institutionalized. The .genetal tendency which is rapidly gaining momentum is to malre the dances inc!'easingly more sumpt- uous. -·--o-~--- College Supports Polio Foundation Members of the faculty and the fraternities are being canvassed this week for contribution~ to help establish the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. Already more than 12 members in the Ad- ministration have contributed. In a letter to the faculty and stu- dents, Union College has been \urgently invited\ to participate ·in the \long hard fight against infan- tile paralysis.\ To those who contribute, Found- ers Certificates will be issued as follows: $1, Person Founder; $2, Honor Fo1,.1nder; and $5, Family Founder. Following a dinner in Hale House on Wednesday evening, Jan- uary 26th, Dr. r.;.:asmlr Fajans of the University of Michigan spolre tot he members of the American Chemical Society at a meeting held in the Che~istry Building. The subject of Dr. Fajans talk was \Types of Chemical Linkages in the Light of Refractemetric Investiga- tions.\ Eugenia :Buxton, internationally acclaimed pianist, appeared before the Thursday Musical Club on $aturday 2:30 P. M. in the Mem- orial Chapel. Miss Buxton's pro- gram included numbers from the works of Chopin and others from the Modern French School. Union, represented by Robert Danzler, '38, and Lon Banlnger, '39 wl11 debate Wells College Fri- day afternoon on the topic, \Re- solved: the parole system as now admihistered in the United States is detrimental to the best inter.est of criminal control.\ Union will uphold the negative. The chbate will be broadeast over r·adlo sta- ticm WM:BO l.n Auburn. During his professorship Peissner civic duties seriously was proved joined Union's Alpha Chaptel' of recently when Union men in Al- Sigma Phi. At the outbreak of the bany and Schenectady were voted Civil War he signed up with th.e awards fer outstanding civic con- Hundred and Nineteenth Regiment tributions in these cities. of the New York Volunteers and, Spencer L. McCarty, 29 of Aibany because of his Prussian military was judged the winner of the 1938 training, rapidly rose in rank. By Civic Service Award of the Junior 1863 Peissner had become a colonel Chamber of Commerce of that city. and on May 2 of that year died at . Oswald D. Heck, 24, of Schenec- the head of his resiment in the tady, and speaker of the Assembly Battle of Chancellorsville, Virginia. in the State legislature, was voted Two Kennon Thetford.s at the University of Alabama get more than their share of the fu.n and difficulties persons with the same names run into. Kennon Thetford No. 1 .Is masculine, a senior. Ken- non 'l'hetford No. 2 is feminine, a freshman. ·They are cousins. Kennon Thetford No. 1 received a reservation for a room in the coed do1·mitory intended for his cousin. He got even however, when he cut French class and the coed, who ls not even registered for the cours·e, was marked absent. Milton M. Enzer, who has been appointed to conduct the campaign on the campus, emphasized that \while Founders Certificates are issued to those contributing a min- imum of $1, ·•there may be a num- ber of students who would like to put in something-a dime, a quar- ter, who cannot afford $1. He said he would be only too happy to con- sider them as participants in this far-flung fight against a disease ·which has caused so much devasta- Uon. Those wishing to contribute are ).lrged to send their money to Mr. Enzei''s office in Silliman Hall on or before Saturday, February 5. A bust of Peissner stands at the the same award by the Schenec- right side of the door as one enters ta,dy Junior Chamber of Com- the college library. merce.

Page Two <llvnrv FOUNDED 1877 \A. Causa Persa Parole !lsJai\ 1937 Member 1938 P\ssociated CoUe6idt:e Press Dl.st:ibu tor of Cofiee,icde Di6est REPRESE.NT€0 FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING SY NationaiAdvertisingService, Inc. CoJ/er}e Pt~blishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW VOFOK, N. Y. CIUCAGO • BoSTOfl w l~S AfiGEUS • S.\tJ FRANCISCO 'JJhe official newsjJaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesday and •Fridays through- out the col!~ge year, except during Chr!stmas and Spri 11g reee.'::lbes. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St.. Scheuectady, N. Y .. Telephone 4·41<11 Entere<.! at the Sc.llenel'tady Post Offlre \\' Second Cla\s Mall Matte1· Subscription price Ji\lve cents a copy: $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial lluoms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone. Schenectatl~ 4....:-0..:.13:..:3....:. __ Senior Board Hyman A. Enzer .•........... , .Editor-in-Chief 11 S. S. S'Juth Col!ege-6-,728 Robert H. Ferguson .......... :Managing Editor Psi Upsilon House-4-8710 Julius J. Bundgus ................ News Editor 9 S. S. South Cullege--S-9728 Henry D. Hartmann .......... Feature Editor 7 U, G. D.- -6 ·~6~0 Carl R. Trahman ................ Sports Editor H:app:\ Sigma Ilou>e-4-8325 John H. Gilmour ............ Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-4-7922 Marvin M. Miller .. .Associate Business Manager Kappa :O.:u-4-1331 Alfred R. Seigle ........... Circulation Manager Kappa :O.:u-4-n31 Jwlior Board ASSOCIATE EDITOTIS I•'redcridt w. Heauembourg .Jerome Smith H. Wyman Hitchcock Edward c. Retartyk Hobert A. Saar Hobert C. Walter. Jr. TKE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1938 aticm both by students and. faculty. The r 11.1 I. ~~;\:t~:;!e;f:t'~:re~ .;;:e:~,:~~a.s ~:~~ The Cider Miii··'·.~Fot· s~MmeO·r·eTas· ~n' <>_· .N.tr-iv•~··l, n\o; a sy.ste:m. at Union, but it was not built on !:..=======================!.!- _ u v _ ~~ mutual faith, for students -were supposed to Explanation zine. The payoff on the llle-rits of · doubt-we didn't see IOall.y movies vow to l'eport cheating, the production will be founcl hi to- last week (Thrill of a ·Lifetime Mr. Mulvey's dal'ling Bill, d • · f th (' The Student Council mirnltt well take up ·Since he's feeling rather ill, ay 6 Issue 0 e oncordy,. where-· doesn't count). Tl::J.el•ef()l'e, we'll .., Witb. his usual astute . in the class humbly offers a dollar . have to &raw upon our' 'inex:ha.ustl- the ],)JOblem. An honor system that would Tact has called a substitute to an.y student who will help them out of the morass into which they. ble fund of cin1orma iio:n and while relieve faculty men e-f the ill.einous task of For himself; therefore, he will 'have stumbled. away an inch or thl'e:e just .gabbing. Herein find the Cider Mill; patrolli11g a classroom and which would put But he may come back on Friday,· -- For eJtample, the e-.illinent Mr. college men on a respectable plane is highly Which would otherwise be my day. • Fo()t 11 ote: An example of the: Cagney-, having patclled.ap· his lit- desirable. -- , sports reporting in the Schenectady He spat with the Warn..er BrotherSJ ·FROM THE SENIOR.. CLASS Last year it seemed verv probable that the senior class, with the assistance of the Studen.t Council and coopera.tion ef ·the en- tire student body, might establish a penna- nent student endowment ftJ.nd. through an insura.11ce plan. If such a system were put into operation, with at least half of the elass taking out insurance and making the college beneficiary of at least $100 after twelve Qr fifteen years, Union College could expect an annual gift fvom every class of almost $1(),000. A gift like that from the present senior class, and every succeeding senior class, eve11 though the money would start co:millg in later than 1950, ~ould be very very welcome. There are a number of otb.er coltege insur- ance plans, some of which p:rovide for a pol- icy of $250 or $300 dollars for each student, Seven Llmel'icks Seven , Gazette: \.And: a hockey match with;· is at work on Boy Meets Girl with There was an old man from Toledo, H. P. I. on Sa.turday-to be held in Marie Wilson as his •l-Eading lady. Who was troubled by too much Foote Memorial Pool-\ But per- He has something elsec Co()lning up libido; . haps it's just an lmpressionist,ic; · view of the hockey rink in the light called \Angels with r.i1:t.:y Faces,\ Anything in a gown He'd chase all ove 1 · town, . of February thaws? H. M. S. · a tem!!lbrary title. And t.lle ·studio Like a peripatetic torpedo. ·.·· ·····~:!.;;=============!.(. is trying to· outbid M<GM for the -- MUSIC story rights to Of .:Mio()1) and Men A student at .famous .Andover · with James in mind. P'arentheti- Had a pedigreed puppy named By cally, MGM would lil'le to bring Rover, By Herbert 0. Fox Wallace Ford and Broderick Craw- Which pup left a token That he wasn't housebroken, ford back to HoJlywood. to sere- O-ver .Andover Andover. Nathan Millstein enact thei·r roles in tlLe stage play The garish Plaza Theatre re· There once was an ardent amoeba sounded merrily last Tuesday eve- Who snuggled quite close to his ning when Nathan .MilLstein pre- sheba; sented the second .Jn the Civic There followed a spasm Music series. He opened his conce.rt with the Vivaldi Sonata -in A Minor Of raw protopl3.Sm, A.nd where once there were two and the Bach ChacoiUle. In these there were three, bah! pieces he elthibited a pliant vir· There once was a. duslty young Arab, he Sat down one fine day on a scarab; he Arose with celerity And said with asperity, \I wish that this Scarab were Lar- rabee.\ tuosity and a clear, i'f somewhat forced tone. This type o:f music is written purely to exhibit the skill' of the artist. It is music for the musician and left the audience very cold, f()r the edification of .that great, gasping thing familiarly kn.own as .the movie public. Something el.se OD Warner's schedule is The Arr.az.3Il~ Or. Clit- fet·house. This is one of' taose things that, with a little •ca.r·e, could he made into another Nig-:tlt :Must Fall. To insure against alle.y· s11ch pos sibllity, they've assigne<i_ the title role to Edward G. Bobin,son, there ,by gypping Ced~·ic Harcl.wicke out of a chance .to make g;ooil. payable after 25 years to the college. In A certain young lady named Smith- ers This was followed by the Gold- maxk Concerto in A :Mi.Dor which was replete with all that which the first numbers lacked. Warm, sen· sual tones flowed fl'Om his ·instru- ment; simple, expressive melodies were .played with sympathy and understanding. Mr. Mills.tein show- ed in this concerto his fine instin<:t for phrases an<L climaxes. This was Not long ago R-KO announced that it would devote Its time to producing only \big\ piC!tures. Ap- .parently the bosses have t'etreated They've re-hired Ba..tbara Stan wyck; her next :picture V¥ill be 'The Saint in New Yo1•k. (\'I'he Saint,\ In case you. didn't ltnow, is ·one of the numerous genllemen crooks who, on occasion, ~on:found the forces of the law t.y :helping them trap handened criminals.) such a ease all the money reverts to the col- was born without fetlock snd lege. .According to the plan which was taken A s~!~~~totnical up (a;nd forgotten) by Union, the college Decidedly comical, would receive only a fraction of the entire· Whic~.c~~d~:e:~r winks .and . thrilling music and well wo-rth sit- ting through the first pieces to heal'. Issue Editor Edward C. Retartyl\ policy· Assistants Since life insurance is no longer considered A W'Iiter whose poems were hideou:>, Dignified, putrid and piteous, Discovered ()lla day His last group included a Paganini Capl'ice which again was valuable only as an exhibition of techniaal skil'l, and two of his own arrangements of piano works by Liszt and Chopin. Th.e latter was very appealing because of its sim- Finally, if, like us, you are o confirmed lla.ro1d Lloy(f. fan, you will be pleased to lea.m .that Pro fessor Beware is unCier weigh, If not, there's- no sense in 011r trying to cell uloid. So that.'s ihat. L. Pelletier R Deyo c. Cammack a lu:xUl'y, but as much a necessity as a home -=========~======== or a f~mily, it is reasonable to- expect that a Tuesday, February 1, 19a8 good :portion of students frO>m ,Union College WE GO TO A DANCE will take out policies almQst immediately Saturday night the second All-College afte1· graduatio-n. That to make writing pay One's morals need not be fastidious. A lady from Paris named Mabie, Whose morals were very unstable, Met a small eollege prexy-, Whose feelings were sexy- Alas! This is only a fable. Ha! Ha.! Dance will take place without the inconven- We note that the William College senior ience of a vacation the following day, with class has already started s<>licitation among the sanction and cooperation of the admin- its members, continuing a policy which was istration, and with the interest of the entire begun last year. Its plan requires that each In an effort to show the Id<J! a <I! thing or two, the advanced composi- college in building up the social life of the senior pay a yearly premium of about '1'7.80 .tion class purports, and for the last campus. on a ~2~0 P?licy which mat.11res in 25 years· ~~r~er~~u~~uramrfJ~s 1 1 ~:r';P:a:;!~ The Student Council is expecting a larger and wh1ch 1s payable to the college. The number of student and alumni guests at the Williams class of 1914 put such a plan into I II dance, with a subsequent profit which may effect and w~en t~e policies mature in 1939 LIBRARY SMOKESTACK. be put to use in some worthwhile p 1 ·oject. the colle~e w1ll reCive about $20,000 .. With appropriate decorations for the gym- A~ Umo~ V:e have every- .oppo-rtumty. fo~· Authors, like the rest of us, love nasium and with the institution of a mid- makmg a smular plan effec11ve. As an mdl- to talk about themselves; and .th~n · d aJ ift $10 000 f\ ft h • go a. step furtiler and put J..t Ill winter social event which come.s immediately VI u g ' • 1 een years ence writing. Th~y've not been bashful following the intensive mid-year examination doesn't seem to be very im.pressive. Yet as in: .the pas~ five y~ars .. Some C?f . then· exper1ements m JOUrnalistic period next Saturday night's dance should a glft from every class that graduates from autobiography are mere posturing t h , d t this year on that money &hould find many and pirouetting; some are among se a appy prece en • . ' the best literature of our time. To the members of the Student Council Important uses. Fr<>m the~ the Library has se- Th. • t · • · t lected caubcrusly, but genero-usly. committee wh() have made the dance po-s- ere aie wo ms_uran_ce co~pames Ill er- Here are three which have attract- sible with so much efficiency and good taste ested and cooperating 1ll trymg to make ed wide circ11lation: . tul t\ such a plan effective for Union College. The I Found No Peace by Webb Mil- -congia a lOllS. . . ler. When crack- newspapermen pobcy was suggested by Umon gTaduates like Webb, Sheean, Gunther, Wells, POST MORTEM The faculty had its pie for mid-years and so did the students, and the consequences are now being felt. In view of the wide- spread influence of the examination period this year, it might be in order to point out several changes which might be made in the system of mid-years. From the general temper of the student body it seemed that the holding of examin- ations in individual classrooms had a much- desired effect of reducing some of the ten- sion that usually pervades the examination hall. However, there was considerable com- plaint about the amount of concentrated study which had to be done for what was in many cases an examination determining a half-year's work. A two-day period before the fhst examin- ation and a similar period afte1· the last one might be considered by the faculty commit- tee on mid-years for next year. By taking a Saturday and a Sunday off for studying be- fore mid-years and a Sunday and Monday for relaxation after mid-years a less. feverish pace might be set without any ill conse- quences. As it is many students take a vaca- tion before and after exams anyway. Secondly, the problem of proctoring exam- inations and of spying on students is one which should be given thorough consider- and has been endorsed by the college admin- and F~rson a.ll begin offering theil· memoirs at the same time, it's istration. ha.rd to choose. Read them all, but However, there is nothin,g the administra- tion can do about making an insurance plan a reality, except encourage it. It remains for the seniors themselves and the only organized group on the campus, the Student Council, to attempt to give each class the opportunity to thank its (!,~llege materially. FOR HEALTH'S SAKE Uuion College is joining- once more in a humanitarian campaign to- outlaw infantile paralysis, a scourge which leaves its victims ravaged and deformed and which has been a severe physical trial that has built up the courage of many afflicted men and women. Th.is week we have an opportunity to con- tribute our share to the war chest. Over- whelming publicity has been given the cam- paigu, but the fight doesn't end with the attainment of a goal fo-r this year or this month or this week. It's a continuing fight that we'll have to wage~its every man~s· burden. We notice with great satJsfaction that the new .quarters for the college doctors are rapidly nearing completion, We repeat again our thanks to the alumni and friends who are making it possible Il)l' better conven- iencas for the students. read Miller first. Before I Forget by Ewton Ras- coe. Twenty years ago Burton Ras- coe cut a deal of ice in Chicago. Now he auts capers in Esquire .. Ee Is at his best in describing his Southern boy-ho.od. In writing liter- ary criticism he often forgets to write English.. He can be berth a first and a .tenth-rate critic. Three Worlds !}y Carl VanDoren. Cal'! VanDoren has been citizen of a little prairie settlement, of a Uni- versity town, of New York City, and of the world. He wTites a beautiful prose, and Burton Ras- C()e ought to go to school to him. The February Harpers .has come to town wltb. at least two articles which are causing much talk \I Didn't Have a Teacher's Lice~se \ by Anonymous, is a lively- el!lpo~e in personal narrative of how edu- cational bureaucracy is malting a racket of teacher-training·. \The Riddle of Hitler\ by Stephen H. Roberts, professor of history at Sydney University, Australia, is a frightening analysis. Professoi· R<>berts bases his views upon an inside sixteen-month investigation of the Nazi regime. He portrays Hitler as a visionary living in a Wagnerian o.pera, a fantastic fig- ure wh.o has actually become the M-ythus of the German people. We call .attention to George Jean Nathan's monthly department- \Theatre\ in Scribner's. His Feb- ru.ary contribution reviews Of Mice. and Men and Father l\lala.chy's 1\firacle, then goes on to meditate- over the Hollywood contamination of playwrights. If Nathan Is not the best dramatic critic in the C()Untry, who Is? H. W.B. • * • plicity-especially after the gro- : If you saw Y ~~~~re ~ S1veetheart tesque Paganini work. you must have noticed that Fran Thursday Musical Club . ces Hunt sings with :much. greater ' skill and appeal thallL Alice Faye It is an inexplicable paradox that (Frances is the best v-ocalist Benny the Thursday Musical Club gave. Goodman ever had, -.;ve':re here to their twenty-fifth anniversity pro-· ~otate) and the ease with 1vhich she gram last Saturday afternoon. The. handled her lines was, fm• a be club chose a program of mode1·n ginner, nothing sho11t e>f phenom ballades, singing with the-ir usual' enal. She has the added advantage precision under the direction of Dr. of being un-pretty-_ A.ll thjs rolled Elme1· Tidmarsh. The <:ontralto sec- up into one, as grall·dpap used .to tion is still much the best, getting say, makes us hope .!:er-vently tilat an excellent dark quality - espe-. we'll see more of h er-a:nd soon. cially in the deep chest tones. Then tbere was sotXJething called .Appearing with the sdngers was You're Only Young Omce .. which wa.s the young .American J>ianist, En- undoubtedly whipped ·llP to steal genia Buxton. She played three ·some of the business that the Chopin pieces but did not catch \Jones Family\ sel\ies ·has built up the subtle grace and exquisite If the reaction of th-E audience o phrasing of the Polish master. Her \Yhich we were part is any indica tone was heavy and her pedal ove1·- bon of that of the gen tral public, worked. the Joneses ha.d bett:er dig them She fared better, however, with selves a la1ge, de<ep grave. They the modern harmonies of Debussy. haven't a chance. and Ravel. Our general impres- Next time we'll revievv a picture, sian of her work was that she honest Injun! J.M. builds a tonal framework too loud o~-- for her to fill with the requisite feeling and transparency. The re- Eternal Strugt}l.e sult was often a meaningless. jum- ble. AROUND WASHINGTON By MARVIN COX (Associated Collegia-te l'ress Correspondent) Among Editors Ties Up HTech '\ .Nezvspape1· Pittsburgh, Pa., (ACP).-Two .editors--but only one J.>aper. That :·was the situation !cast w-eek at Car- WashingtCFn, D. C. - Sons and negie Tech. daughters o:f senators, representa- A journalistic feu!! between the tives, cabinet members and foreign ieftists and the ri:!!:hf:ist.s, with the diplomats are a dime a dozen in· -· Washington. They attend local Carnegie Tartan in b·etween, began colleges and nobody J)aya any par- when the student co:un.cil objected ticlllar attention to them. They are to the paper's editorial policy, judged on their own merits rather· than on the fame of the illustrious called it \against thE majority parents. There are so many great opinion on the carnp~s.\ and near-great men here in the· Walter K. Ellis, the Tartan's realm of .politics that net particul&r attention can be paid to their chil- outspoken editor, found himself dren. ousted and in his pl2ce Katherine But it's a different story when Thomas, former news editor. He someone near to stage and screen' refused, however, t;.o resign ex- stars ~s around. A Senator's daugh- plaining, \I have mot l>een w~rned ter might be greatly sought afte:r . . in Ho-llywood, and of no particular· about the editorial p<J!icy or asked Importance here. Conversely, a· to retract or ap·oloogize for any screen star's sister -wouldn't, per-- statement and until I do have a haps, make an.y great d.iffer.ence in -trial I won't resig-n •• Hollywood. But when a star's sis- . · . ter comes to Washington that is, The fo~:m~r edJt.o~·~ clmmed that very emphatically, something elsE be was . rai:·ro~ded out )>ecause again! of th~ edtt~nal m the last Issue of . . 1937 m wh1ch he -wrde,. in a light This IS prove.d. by the pr~seiilcE'. vain, definitions d ca-mpus class h.ere of K9:-thrme Hepburn s kid honoraries and the Council. The Sister who .Is '!- student at Be.n11- Council was referl\ed -to· .~ \a pla:y- ington College m Ve-rmob.t. let entitled 'A Corneay 9f stooges' She is down here wo.rlting for a a weekly l!tage prod-:uct~· n holding few ;months before returning to 'hecx forth o·f a Tuesda:v eve .. lng in the stud1es, and t·he local papers h.ave ·Amen Corner of the Christian all run her ;pictures together with ·Assn. office.\ 1 elaborate. write-ups. In a few Meanwhile at Duq_uecShe Univer- weeks she has become better sity, the universit.y's r:-ecentl a kno:wn than many daughters ·D·f pointed Publicati<On.s Boar/ ~ famous stat~smen. officially taken o·-ver editorial su- . Yo1.1:ng Miss Hepburn is attrae-. pervision of the DIIquesne Duke tlve m her own rlg-llt and, o-f and the Duques.ne 1\f:olt'tlily. It fol- course, that doesn't hurt, but If sh.e lowed a :flare-up Jn.st -week when had been the lovely daughte1• o-f the Duke brolte a..n. uncensored Congressman Whrutn.:ot, s·he migh.t story on an altercation between have stayed here a year without the presicLent of tbe c:iouncil and an the newspapers printing her na.me, .Administration of:flcial. T C< sl ho lo tl: \' C< tl w S( oJ bl tc 3 u sc p: D s1 h Sl 5 p n tl tl tc 'I it 1l fo ... p F F r h il a g t p p a I c I

trivial, no movies Lifetime fore, we'll •lnexhausti- and while g·abbing. Mr. u.p· his Iit- 'Brothers, Girl with lady. C-(]Ining up :y Faces/' t.he ·studio for the and Men :?arentheti- to bring er-ick Craw- to scre- .sta.ge play that great, y known as Warner's U1·. CUt- those things could be :Must Fall. such. pos- the title there- ril. wiclte out .announced Its time to Ap- retreated. Stan- ~!IL be 'The Saint,\ w. is ·one of crooks the them you are o fan, you that Pro- weigh. If oar trying hat. S1veetheart, that Fran- greater Alice Faye. Benny :r•e here to 1vhich she for a be- of ph.enom- advantage this rolled used .to that soon. called which wa.s ·ll:P to steal that tne has built up. audience of .any indica- tral public, dig them- grave. They ow a picture, J.M. Ties lACP).~Two ~per. That w·eek at Car- <l>etween the with the began objected poliay, majority s.~\\' th.e Tartan's himself Katherine editor. He resign, ex- ·i> een warned or asked fo·r any I do have a claimed that out because last issue of in a light cla.ss Council. The to· .P::S \a play- 9f Stooges', holding )ng in the he . Christian Univer- r-Ecen tly all- Board has editorial su- Duke It fol- V!eek when uncensored between ounc:ll and an Union Sextet Plays Army Tomorrow Team Hopes to Bl'eak Losing Streak in Enco11nter At West Point By JOE ANNESE Wlth exams ovet· and .the boys re- covering from last week~s academic slaugllter, Duke Nelson has high hopes that the Union hockey team's loshtg streak will be broken when the sextet meets Al'my tomorrow at West Point. The Cadets have a combhation relatively -weaker than· their la.st year's six and though not wishing to be quoted, Coach Nel- son believes• that Union's chances of winning this year are fairly bright. Last year the Garnet lost to A.rmy by that old jinx: score, 3 to 2. W~>rking with the best ice squad· UnJon has had in many years, a squad of veterans strengthened by promising .sophomore material, the Duke has planned a new bit ·a strategy for tomorrow's contest. He has decided to start his first team, substitute a new forwax'd line after 5 or ,f\ minutes of play, and then put in the third team for 2 or 3 minutes of the first period. While the second and third teams play, the first squad will have a chance to re.st up and plan its attack anew. This plan stresses a quick attack- ing offense and with Joe Paul and Art Braymeyer at defense, Duke feels this combination will prove .strong. Tonorrow's starting lineup will probably consist of Borden, goal; Paul and Braymeyer at defense; Hawley at center;. and Wold and Heck on the wings. Union completes this season's hockey schedule this weekend fac- ing Colgate here Friday and R. P. I. at Troy on Saturday. Last year's games with both these schools had to be postponed because of the poor condition {)f the ice. Swimming Tests THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1938 Official Handball Rules . ball passes the service line on each retire the server. . f. If a player's partller is hit by . a served ball while standing in the service ·box, it counts as a short Rule !-The Game and the ball is dead. Two consec- HANUEALL COURT RU:LES 1. Tlrne Sheets are posted ·in tl\e handball court room. 2. Playing periods for both singles and doubles will be limited to onC\half hour. If the following .period is· not engaged, play may con- tinue. Sootion 1. A game shall consist utive violations retire the server. of twenty-one points. A match g. In the doubles game, ·but one shall consist of the best two out of· man is allowed to service on the tnree games. In championship ,first inning. Then u:pon being .put tournaments the losel'S in the semi- out, each of the opponents is a!- - 3. Players may sign up ONE finals must play for the third lowed to serve until :put out. Upon day in advance f{)l' ONE place. resuming service, the one who period ONLY. Section 2' Only one hand may be· served first, again serves until put 4. Bec:ause of the present in- used in striking the ·ball. The -use out. Whereupon his partner serves. ability to accurately estimate of the ·foot or any portion of the· Section 6. Receiving Servic&- the demand for the use of body, excepting one hand, to r.e-' a. The receiver must stand back the court, it is urged that turn th.e ball is barred. of the shor.t line while the ba:11 is the rules be strictly adhered Section 3. In attempting to ·re-: being served. to. This wlil enable the De- turn the ball, it cannot be struck b. A receiver may play the serv- partment of Physical Educa- tion to deter:mine what more tha.n once. icc either on the voJ.le\ or .the ' changes, if any, should be Section !l. Sel\li'ing- first bounce. instituted. a, In the act of se 1 ·ving, the. c. It is optionaJ with a receiver t t th f . t h t b 11 f 5. TU'RN OFF LIGHTS WHEN . Gotblchalk (} (} 01 Jili•CJn 0 0 0 · 19 4 42 .. * * lhlt01 UI•sllon ( 18') IJ{apJHI Alphn. 'Mara 0 2 2 Nott · L)eull 0 0 0 Balch Wa.n!lv eli 5 1 11[ Tompkins Ba~t.let t 0 0 OJ Richa,I'ds ' Keers 1 0 21Thompsou Barry 1 0 2 James · Sammect 0 0 0 7 4181 ,. * * 4 0 () 0 2 0 5 23 (11) 3 11 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 4 0 0 :KRIJ!Ill. Nu !14) Chi PRi (IS) 2 0 4 Guibert 2 1 5 : MurCJff Kess lei\ Spellma11 . Halpet·n Seigle Elsnel' Cnhen,ll. 1 ~ ! Conway 1 u 2 0 1 1 Twining 1 0 2 1 3 5 Norris 1 0 2 () 0 0 Keough 1 G 2 0 0 0 Stewart,G. () 0 0 0 11 OIMurphy,O. 0 0 0 1Draper 0 0 0 __ -l:l!urvl•Y.G. 0 0 0 4 6 14 6 1 13 Intramural Basketball Schedule server drops the ball to the floor 0 accep e IrS s or a ; 0 a FINISH:ED PLAYING. \'between the short and service· short ball is attempted it becomes. -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; lines) and on the. bound, it is a fair :ball. The second snort -ball li February 1, 7:30-Kappa Alpha struck in such a manner thak it, cannot -be played and automatically II ,, .. vs. :Beta Theta Pi; 8:3Q-South Col- will first hit the front wall, and; returns to tne server. . INTRAMURAL$ lege vs. Kappa Sigma. on the l'ebolind land upon the Section 7. Shorts- February 2, 7:30-Psi Upsilon vs. floor back of the short line, eithet a. When a served ·ball hits the Lambda Chi Alpha; 8:30-Tneta before or after striking one of the front wall and fails to strike back Nati~nal League -on neute1, 5 Allep · Delta Clli vs. Delta Upsilon. side walls. of the short line on the fly. at 1:30 p. m.. Wednesda.y, Feb. 2. b. If ·the •erver fo ;Is to serve the· b. When a player's .partner is klleys 1 and 2-Delta Phi vs. Kappa ~ ~ h't b d b h'I t di Sigma; Alleys 3 and 4-Sig1lla Chi w. ball legally, as specified in -these· 1 Y a serve. all w 1 e s an ng Sigma I'h!; Alley~ 5 anrt 6-Th eta rules, tnen it is an out fo1· the side in the service box. Oelta 'Chi w. Phi Sigma Delta; Alleyg serv-ing. c. Note: Two -consecutive 'shor·ts' 7 and S-Bda Theta !'i n<. Phi Sigma retire the server. Delta. c. A!te·l' the ball is legally served, American League on ReutE>rs Alley' one of the players of .the receiving Section 8. Hinders- at I :30 ·p. m., Feb. 3. · d t th b 11 b ·k· · a. <In doubles, both players on a Alleys 1 and 2~ ,[:hi PHi vs. Delta Sl e re urns e · a Y str1 mg It side are entitled to a .fair and un- L'J»ilon : Alleys 3 and ·1-Psi Upsioln either on tne .fly, or on tne first. obstructed chance at .the baH and vs. I..am.Lda Chi AlJ>hn; Alleys 5 and 6 bounce, so that it will strike the -Kappa Nu vs. Phi Oamma Delta : trent wall eithel· d!rectiy, ·Or after either one is entitled to a decision Alley\ 7 and 8-Kappa Alpha Ys. Alpha . naving struck one or both of .the on a hinder even tnough it natur- Delta P'hi. ----a-- Basketball 21 The second round of basketball 21 must be completed on or before ·Wednesday, Feb. 9. Opponents must arrange their own matches which may be played any time be- tween 10:30 a. m. and 1:30 p. m. each day. ---0)--- Boxing and W1·estling side walls or ce-Iling. ally would be his partner's ball and J,la.sketball Results: notwithstand-ing the fact that his roappa Sig-ma. (42)1 Nortlt Colll'ge <S) Bexi.ng and wrestling classes are d. One of the side serving then partner may be attempting to play ~-::,';'~i,on 1 1 ~~~~~~~t h ~ ~ · held between 4:30 and 5:30 p. m. returns the ball to the front wall the ball or that he may already Stillman 2 0 4 Lewis 11 u 0 . dail:y in the gymnasium under the as stated in tne foregoing and have missed it. It is no excuse Kelyl 0 o 0 Rosen o o o, direction of Ed Fritz and Bill Ketz. play continue~ until either the that the ball is \killed\ or that the Hanson -! 1 9\ Seidet· 0 0 0 Now is the time .to get into condi- seiver or receiving side is unable adversary \could not get it.\ A Kopf I o 2 M'PPhE'rson 0 1 1 tion for the annual boxing and to return the ball legally, \Vhich ·player is entitled to a fair chance f'aiia.ghan ° 0 Ol ___ wreostling carnival which will take will constitute either a point or a to recover any ball. 19 4 42\ 1 1 3, place in March. hand-out as the case may be. b. The same prindple holds in * * * I~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ Rule IV singles. It is the duty .of lhe side Lambda Chi \ Flli Gamma /'1 1 Alt>lm '(!2) Delta (23) Definitions 4Jf .Playing Terms Section. 1. Server - The player serving the ball shall be .termed the server. In a four-handed. game, -the one serving and his partner· are termed the serving side. that has played the baH to get out Thomas 3 1 71 Sands 1 1 3 : Restaurant-Tap Room-Dellca.lessen of the way of tne opponent. Schattan 1 o 2~Robert o 0 o c. When a player is interfered Parry 5 1 11 Scrade 1 1 3 with by his pa-rtner, it is not a Riley 0 0 0 Schanley ·I 2 10 hinder. Williamson 1 () 2~Barton 0 0 0 Randall ·0 0 0 Leeohier 0 0 0 d. A hinder does not nullify a O'Briell 1 1 9 MacKenzie 3 1 7 previous short or fa-ult. Reid 2 0 4 Ha'erstrom 1 1 31 McManus 2 0 41 GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR Page Three OLD UNION By BILL KETZ Tuesday, February 1st Twenty-five years ago t11e Var- sity quintet extended their win- ning streak to five stlaighl games by easily defeating Pratt Institute 43-16. Mo.st of the \studes\ attend- e<l the game with Juniot· Week maidens and the Gat·net pe!form- anee was everything an undergl'ad- uate could desi1e in the way of en- tertainment for his best girl. Be- hind at the half by a sco1·e of 2() to 7, P1·att started the last period de- termined to hold the scora down. As one of the Dutchmen pat it. \they sure did have a full knowl- e<lge of the Queensbury rules and the a1·t of riding\ ... Union regrets just now that Hamilton hasn't a ])asketball team , , . Syracuse has a.slted for two games but the of!'et· coming so late in the season had to be refused. . . . In 1933 undet· \Campus Chatter\ the question is asked, ''What has become of the famed Garnet Cheer Leade1·s? In last Saturday night's scoring ram- page we had to rely upon an <Jid a.Jumnus to lead the Union yells\. ... Yes, his name was Freddie. A N:B.:W SYMBOL OF a national organiza- tion dedicate to the sci- entific control of dail'y products, this seal is your assurance of finer ice cream. • The following students have not pased the required s'vimming test and are requested to report to. the Pool Attendant and take same at once. 1938-R. L. Royal, J. A. Scully, H. H. Sharpe, Section 2. Receiver-The player or players to whom the ·ball is served are called the receiver or the receiving side. Section 3. Hinders-A hinder is a phase of play wherein there is accidental interference, or obstruc- tion of the flight of the ball, not involving penalty. FOR THE ALL-COLLEGE DANCE ... HE SELLS TOBACCO 1939-J. W. Malone, W. C. Rob- bins. 1940-G. N. Alper, J. J. Cary, M. Section 4. Point-A point can be scored only by the serving side, a.nd is made when an opponent fails to play a legal service or a legally return,ed ball. Section 5. Ollt-- Cimorelli, G. E. Conrad, R. A. Egan, W. A. Fallon, J. FitzSimons, P. T. Hill, M. A. Humphrey, K. A. McLeod, D. H. Pasco, J. H. Porter, a. An out is scored against the A. E. Sweet, D. J. Waite, R. J. a. An out is scored against the Willia.ms. serving side when the server fails l!l41-W. A. Albright, R. L. Balch, to serve legally or as is herein- J. G. Bothwell, R. L. Brickley, J. L. after stipulated in these rules. Bunvell, E. A. Cerasano, A. F. b. In the doubles game, when Ci~snlnski, J. B. Colson, H. F. each of the two partners has he.en Co11nor, G. W. Conover, R. E. De- put out, it is a side out. Failure of Matteo, W. Edwards, J. H. Eng~ either partner to serve his own lish, R. P. Ericson, R. :M. Fitzsim- hand shaJl be a .hand out. mons, W. K. Flynn, W. L. Ford, D. c. In the singles game, retiring W. Gahran, W. Gifford, F. J. Gon- the server retires the side. zalez, M. Green, M. V. Green, W. J. Section 6. Service Zone - The Hartt, R. R. Heny<m. R. W. Hob- service zone is the &pace between day~ G. D. Holmes, W. A. Hum- the short and service lines in which phries, J. J. Kavanagh, D. M. the server must remain while Klock, S. P. LaCel'VIL, K. E. Mac- serving the ball. kenzie, L. MacKinnon, R. F. Male, Rule V-Pia.ying Regulations R. D. Marshall, S. A. Mauriello, A. N. McCartney, J. J. ~cManus, C. Section 5. The Service-- G. McMullen, G. Mollicone, N. F. a. The server may start serving Morelli, R. G. Murphy, W. G. M:ur- from any place in the service zone. ray, H. 0. Nadler, W. D. Navin, W. b. In s·erving, the server must J. Noonan, G. W. N(}rris, E. JilL start a.nd stay within the service Ottenot, P. S. Potter, R. I. Reed, zone; and if while serving, he D, .M. Rickard, B. P. Riley, M. steps outside the service zone, he Robins, J, J, Rooney. W. A. Saun- shall be chaxged with a fault. der.s, L. Schwartz, G. J. Semerad, ·Stepping outside. the service 2:one J'. P. Shanley, J. G .. Shaw, F. R. twice in success-ion shall retire the Sirnboli, E. J. Simpson, J. T. serve1• and count an out. Sm:yth, W. F. Swart, L. A. Taylor, c. Only the side serving scores. E . .J. Thatckery, A. Turchick, J. E. d. In serving the ball, the ball is Vannier, W. Viscu::;i, W. F. Walker, ]:'equired to hit the front wall first. W. H. Walker, W. A. Wardwell, . It can then hit one side wall, but M. Weintraub, J. R.. Williamson, it must hit on the floor back of the H. S. Winand. short line, provided it is not vol- ----0---- B()WLING LEAGUE STANDINGS leyed by the receiver. The second consecutive violation of the rule retires the server. American League Delta Upsilon ...... -.- .... 15 LIUI!bda Chi Alpha . - .....• 10 Psi Upsilon • .. .. • .. • . • .. .. 8 Phi Gamma Delta . • . • . . . . 8 Clti Psi . .. • •. . . . . . . .. .. . • . 7 Alpha Delta Phi .. .. .. • .. .. 7 Kappa Nu .•....•....•..•. 4 Kappa .Alpha ......... _ . . .. 1 National LEague Theta Delta Chi ••. , , . , •. , 1:1 Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . 11 Phi Sigma Delta .......... 11 :Beta Theta Pi . .. .. .. .. . . . 10 Sigma Phi •.••.••.•....•. , 9 l{appa Sigma . .. . .. .. .. . .. 5 Delta Phi ...•..........•.• 3 Sigma Chi ......... ~ ....... 0 e. The server's partner must· 0 stand within the service zone with 5 his back against the wall until the · 7 serve. Two consecutive violations 7 8 8 11 14 4 4 4 5 6 10 12 15 For Houso Linen Service PHONE 4-3166 AMERICAN COAT. APRON & LAUNDRY COMPANY I 030 Barrett St. LOUIS WASSERMAN 9UALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway Phones 4-3364, 4·3365 THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Basement of Silliman Hall A Special Service for Union Students Anthony F. l;mrbierl HoUl'll: 1:30.7:01) P. M. YOU'LL NEED: A Gal A Corsage A Car and CLOTHES • We Can Supply You With the Latter • FULL DRESS SUITS TUXEDOS BOW TIES DRESS SHIRTS ACCESSORIES • AI .so Tuxedos &: Tails FOR RENT • VI NICK'S MEN'S SHOP 467 State St. tiAVE YOU HEARD \THE CHANT OF THE TOBACCO AUC110NEER\ ON TilE IIAiliO Y Whon you do, remember that Luckies oue ihe finest tobacco. And also that the \loasthag\ P.r.cJcess removes curtain harsh irrltcutts fo<~nd ln .ill tobacco. So L~ckios are kind to your threat. TO THEM ALL But Branch Bobbitt, like so many other independent experts, prefers Luckies ••• \AT AUCTIONS in my warehouse .f1. in Farmville, North Carolina,\ says Mr. Branch Bobbitt, \Lucky Strike buyers know what tobac(O they want and they'll keep bidding right up until they get it. \Well-in a cigarette-it's the tobacco that counts. I know tobacco and I know what tobacco is in what cigarettes. So that's one reason I've smoked· Luckies f01' over five years now.\ Many otber experts agree with Mr. Bobbitt. Sworn records show that, among independent tobacco experts, Luckies have twice as many exclusive smokers as have all the other cigarettes combined. 511)1Jf(i .J. ~hoaJ feeotciS 1A f~~~ WITH MEN WHO KNOW TOBACCO BEST·IT'SLUCKIES 2 TOl ;:: '•.'

Page Four New Plan Advocates Junior Garnet Boa1·d Despite the fact that the Stu- dent Council, acting upon the sug- gestion of the Publications Board, changed the Garnet from junior to a senior publication, David L. Yun- ich, managing editor of the present Garnet, inferred that a motion woUld be made that will malte the new Garnet a senior book in con- tent only, leaving the publication of the book to the junior class, as at present. This motion, however, would have to be appwved by the Publications Board, which body would offer the plan to the Student Council for acceptance, before it could be put into effect. The plan of having a senior year book published by a junior class has been adopted at several larger college~, a·nd the advantage of the system seems to be tlle fact that in the event of business which is· carried over Into the next academic year the Ga1 net Board would still be in school, and would be far mme accessible than a board which had been graduated, According to this plan candidates for the Garnet Board would con- tinue to ~eport in thetz· sophomo1·e year, and would be elected to the board in their junior year. The change from a junior to a senior publication will necessitate the duplication or deletion of a publication for one clasB, ·and ac- cording to the suggestion which is expected to be submitted to the l'ublications Board, the former plan wilt be given preference. Thi~ will mean that the Garnet for next year will, in essence, be a duplica- tion of this year's Garnet. THE CON<JORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1938 NOTICE Notice to campus Writers: Short stories, short-short stor- ies, essays, light and set 1 ious verse, short prose skits wanted from any and all campus es- sayists, poets, and story- writers by the class in advanced com- position for use In a modest collection of campus literary experiments. For the best story that can be used, the best serious poem, the best re- view in rhyme of any recent popular ·book \limit, 12 lines), the best epigram, thumb-nail sketch, or eve.n limerick de- . scribing any well-known cam- pus character or institution, a Biz(lrre Career of Union's L. Mo!rgan Dug up After Time Print~ Brochure ~~--~------------------- When TIME magazine goes out of the \Cayugas a group of his of its. way to devote one of its cronies at :AUI'OI:a, who \effected highi)\\\Compt•essed columns to an· .a surreptitious en trance\ into the ofuscu:E:'e 75c brochure published by' building which a defunct Masonic th~ Rochester Historical Society,· lodge had built, and there \attired you can be su:ve that its· editors be- themselves ·in the white robes of, lieve 1:hey have une·artlled some<Jne the of.ficers\ for their secret play- of pt·esent day importance. That Indian re.vels. is wh;at happened a few weeks ago to \'l'he European Travel Journal His magnum opus was \Ancient · of Le-wis Henry Morgan.\ Society,\ which attracted the at- tention of Marx's collaborator En- nominal prize of $1.0() will be awarded as well as undying fame. Final judges of the merits of any submitted ma- terial are members of .the Class in Advanced Composition and there is no appeal from their judgment. Manuscript must ,be handed to Professor Burges Johnson in his office not later than Friday morning, Febru- ary 4. And who was Lewis HE:nry Mar- gels through its emphasis on the gan? ·Let Alfred C. Haddon, M.A., importance of pro.perty relations in Sc.D;. F.R.S., Fellow of Christ's determinin·g the nature of all other College, Cambr.idge, and author of aspects of social organization. The a Hi.story of Ethnology, answeT co-author of the Communist Man!- . that one: \Morgan was undoubt-. festo wrote a ;book based upon edly the greatest sociologist of the :l.1orga.n's findings. But Morgan n·inet-ecntll centUL'y.\ himself was bitterly anti-labor, and. Payment of Tuition, Student' Ta.x, Dormitory Rent, Dining Serv-· ice, and Repeated Cour-se Fees is· due at the Comptr.oller's Of-fice, February 9, 10, and 11. Hours 9:00 to 11:30, 1:00 to 4:30. Bills have already been distributed, Lewis Henry Morgan graduated smugly SUI'e that the Ame.rican from Union in 1840. He entered as free-for-all was the best of all pas- a ju:~:~1or fmm ·Cayug-a Academy, sible social systems. His travel a11d in his five terms at Union journal in Europe clearly show;< neve!:' received a grade below 96. his provincialism; and yet in spite :Morgan's career is a strange. of a narrow mind, a limited li- mixtu1e of the o·rthodox and the brary, and comparatively few facts, bizanc. He was a serious-minded Lewis Henry Morgan became the y(}uth who worshipped all the American pioneer in the infant sac 1 ed cows of his e 1 ·a; and yet science of ctllnoiogy whose wo1·k, some= of the crucial incidents in his in the judgmmt of the New York life ;;v.ere close to comic. He wrote Times, has been validated during the best work of his ,period on the the last half Cl'ntury to an unusual American Indian; yet his serious degree. inter est began through the pranks H. A. L. To Award Autho1· of Trafjic Safety Theses . Federal' Tax on State U. Games Held! Illegal Five awal'ds, including a $500 first prize, to college students for theses on the subject of traffic safety have been in- cluded am o ng t he Annual -Awards contest of the C. I. T; Safety Foundation \for the pur- pose of directing thought to thio field of activity and encourCJ,g- ing, among the business and so- cial leaders of tomorrow, a >bet- ter appreciation of the p1 oblem of traffic safety.\ For the best original essay of not more than 5,000 words on the subject of traffic safety with attention given .to a thorough knowledge and coverage of one phase of the traffic safety .prob- lem, phrased simply enough to permit possible publication, the C. I. T. organization of One Park Avenue, New York, is of- fering as awards: first, $500; second, $250; third, $100, and two ho·nora:ble mentions of $50 eaeh. DeadHne has been set fer June 30. BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass, Brushes and Wall Paper 126 'BROADWAY New Orleans, La. (ACP).---'The United States li'ifth Circuit Court of :Appeals has held that the fed- eral government bas no right tu collect the ten per cent admission tax to football games or other ath- letic events at universities opet·ated by a State. The case was appealed by the Collector of Intemal Revenue fot· the district of Georgia The majol'lty opinion held that the regents of the University Sys- tem of Georgia formed a ·consti· · tuted department of· the State of Georgia arrd said the tax on those institutions was condemned under the clause which bars Federal · Government from taxing the State ·government, OF vice veFsa. Iuurested in Schenutady 'fnterested in UNTON MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairing ' a Specialty P A RICER PENS ,,. ~,· ••:,:::•;;:,:t:i:;:~;;r:\l:l:':·,;,:l;:n::\;Tn:''{';W''''}W?'~:::·:=:i=;::r·r~\'··:· -.~ . .. ·::::· .:-:-··· -~:: -:: .~: ·: .. ·;: :--:-. .. ·.· :···. :::· ·. · .. · . · .. ·:: .- .. It is doubtful that any :;ugge:;- twns Will be made advocating changes in the editoiial policy ut administiation of the new publica- tion. 0-----· Geology Department Gets Ra1·e Nlineral Specimens The installment plan for pay- ment of tuition will be continued during the second half of the year. The initial payment will be at least $50 for all students not hold- ing scholarships or loans. For the latter men the initial payment will consist of the scholarship or loan plus at least one quarter of the balance due in cash. There is a charge of fiv£' dollats made for paying tuition on the installment plan. Students are re.quested to be espPcially ~areful in preserving the bill forms which they have alr<>ady obtained. Thos<' who have been mailed bills for Repeated Courses, Dormitory Rent, and Dining Serv- ice, should enter these items in the proper places on the bill form. : ... mg goad reason.: ,? ! ,' Jift;,~g The geology department has re- cently received two t·a.re specimens of mineral~ a~ announced by Pro- fessor E. S. C. Smith, one from an alumnus and the other from the State Department of Geology. Doctor William B. Colburn '07, present curator of mineralogy at C1·an brook Institute of Science, r~lonmfiP~d Hill~. Mi<'higan, sent thiN' sp~cim<'ns of polish<'d nod- ules of vat isicite with pReudo- \'\\\llitc and warditc. Tlw locality ftolll which thc~e W<'l'<' obtained is completely worlted and it is be- lieved that no more such specimens will ever be found. A latge block of purple calcite from the famous deposit at Ster- liu;;bu~lt. ::-;, Y., v.u.:; the gift uf th~ );~w Yolk State :l.luscum. Both contributiOns have been put on display m the museum in the Geology Building which houses a collection of rare and valuable minerals. WALDORF For All College Dance New TUXEDOS and TAILS TO HIRE Also Shirts, Collars • Ties, Studs See Leo :Minkin, D. U. House WALDORF TUXEDO CO. \'\'fpn'..: Fnrm:1.1 'Y~nr Rxf\\lll!=:ively•• 4~:? B\\\':lY Alh:1ny nr-p. Pn!=1t nfftq~ 2nd Floor Phone 4-5nt I Troy Sec:ond Shirt Outlet Specializing In Finest Troy Seconds, Odds a.nd Samples 715 State St. Across from Armory CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY Inc. 1858 Hamburg Street PHONE 2-091 0 THE ACME BARBER SHOP Welcomes All Union College Siudents 509 UNION ST. Nearesf fhe Campus Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS GAZETTE PRESS Printing ~~;''\ .. -·.- .. -:· ··.·-: :·-:···-··· /find they give me more pleasure than any cigarette I ever smoked. And if a man isn't get- ting pleasure from his cigarette he might as well quit smoking. Chesterfields are milder • . . they, ve got a taste that smokers like . • . they have. everything to give a man MORE PLEASURE. Copyright 1958, LiGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO Co, Weekry Radio Features LA WRBNCB TIBBETT ANDRE KosTELANETZ PAUL WHITEMAN DEEMS TAYLOR PAUL DouGLAs E Zf Vc M \ 0 Se Rt m~ Fo m< ori sa: SCI th• ba th• WE R< to: m: a ye th ti< m: F• Le U! fa hi tic m se be c. ll VI d E r

u . d: Illegal Court the fed- right to· admission other ath- operated by the for held that Sys- a ·consti· State of on those under s Federal State ctady Repairing ' Symphonic Recordings To Be Given Every Wednesday Z5t1 tS All'lmni Associa~iol'l To Suppo11t Block U Vol. !LXI., No. 30 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1!)38 PRICE FIVE CEN'TS Mystery of Romeyn Will Be Unveiled On Founders' Day Sebring to Present Research On DutC.h Ancestor i11 Chapel Progmm Second Annual Gaihn·ing Rutgers University President- Emeritus Also to Spea.k On Dutch Cultu1·e Oldest Li'!Jing Alumnus Enjoys 98th Birthday The FebDuary issue of the Alumni M<mthly carries an ac- count •of 'Union's oldest .living alumnus. Ee Is Edward Auten of the .class· of 1862, now resid- ing in PI inceville, Illinois. He ·celebrated ·his 98th birthday last May. He still enjoys excellent health, and recently had his pic- ture taken with the members of his family. four generations in all. Article Tells Of · College ~uildings One of Union College's \:major Larrabee and Hislop Uneovel' mysteries\ will .be unveiled when Plans Eadier Tb.an Founders' Day is celebrated Friday morning, February 25 in the Mem- · orial Chapel, and the 143rd· an..niver- Those of Ramee sary .pr:ogram is internationally ob- · served by alumni who will listen to An article in the recently pub- the b10adcast ptogram. lished February issue of the Students, faculty, and alumni Alumni Monthly sheds more light back for both Founders' Da:y and on the first plans for the erection the annual fraternity initiation of North ·and South Colleges, the weekend, will hear about Dirck first unified plan of construction Romeyn, the Dutch Reformed pas- ·for an Arnet>ican college. Guess Who? THE \.4LL-COLLEGE\ GIRL :College to Frolic TomorrQW At First Mid- Winter Da~nce rlvo flund,ed c~uples to Dance to Jack La11ny~s Jlusic ot Second AU-College A./fair; Flags Decomte Gym Two-hund·red couples of students, facility, alumni &nd ft-iends will dance tomonow nig·ht at the first m.id--winter ·socia:J event in recent years. The second formal All-O>llege ' dance will take place in newly decorated Alumni g·yrnnasium from 9 to 1 o'clock, with Jack Lanny and his Impe11ial Col- legians providing the music. ·---· -------------- - -~ For the conveniencE of the '· • . , . guests and their escotts Hale When 11-la~d 1 ells Jtl:an i House will be open throughout the To Give N~ for A.nswer dance, .and sandwiches anli des- serts w11l be served. An unsuspecting Freshman re- cei·ved this clandestine message. fr·orn Saratoga, not long ago, print-· ed painfully poorly on a penny · post-card: \ .. _ Take a tip f.rotn a pal and don't accept .a date with a certain ..• . . • . . • • • • • f<Jr Skidmore Beaux A.rts Ball. You don't know me. but then you Tickets for the dance il\ay be secured at the gymnasimn tomor- row night, or from a.ny of the dance committeemen, David L. Yunich, Tyler Dennett, and John S. Krull. The price is $2.00 The committee annou.nced today that programs will be given· to all the guests at the door to.morrow. The gymnasium wiLl be deco- taled tomoi·tow morning and aft- don't konw her either. You'll probably get someone else anyway. asked by et noon by the committee and as- Hoping you take my advice- A.. Pal.\ tor who organized the popular de-·. Since the publication of \Joseph mand in nine up-state counties for Jacques R.amee and America's a college at Schenectady. For ten First Unified College Plan,\ by years, he led his fellow citizens on Dr. Larrabee in the Franco-Amer- the difficult road through educa- ican Pamphlet Series and of \The tiona!, legislative and financial' Ramee Plans\ by Codman Hislop mazes that finally culminated on in the Alumni Monthly, both mem- February 25, 1795, in the State bers of ·the faculty have been turn- Legislature granting a charter to. ing up new evidence which is in- Union College. corporated in the article. Government Classes Visit State Assembly Alumni Gift Fund Reaches New Hig-lt -----a.---- Library Starts Cou.rse In Bibliographical Methods sistants from several of tb.e fra- ternities. The motif of the .decora- tions is in commemora.tion of the alumni of the college. ,ancl flags from 41 different nations wb.ere alumni are now residing will be hung from the ceiling and ;balcony. Colored lights will play on the dancers, and the band win be set on a taised platform at the north end of the gymnasium. The first action was taken in Life Revealed 1806 when the trustees voted that Curiously enough, the life of this tracts of land on \the high lands far sighted leader, who submerged bordering on the second ward of his own denominational intet'Ests in the City 1>f Schenectady\ be ac- the more universally significant de- quired to erect a \new College mand for establishing the first non-· Edifice.\ Gr-ants of land and money ~;ectarian college in the state, has from the state, the latter to be been a \mystery\ to modern Union. raised by :four lotteries of $20,000 College generations. each, weve the first financial aids But a year of intensive research and gave the progt am of new in libraries, old print and book- buildings for the college its first shops, family records, musty old. impetuti. Building opetations were church records, old newspapers, and not begun until some six years other sources has brought together later, the dElay being due to a a 50,000 word volume of biograph- necessary wait for the lottery re- ical data on Dirck Romeyn. While turns. Even then the first work the College Library will receive the was not done upon the plan which manuscript, those attendin.g the Ramee presented to the ti·ustecs Founders' Day exercises will hear in 1813, as had been thought un- Lewis Beck Sebring, Jr., '23, night til recently. city editor of the New York Hel'ald Among tlle vouchers turned over Tribune, make a brief <:lramatk to the treasurer by Professor Me- synopsis· of his year's study of his Auley, who bad been originally en- ancestor's life. gaged to teach Latin and had been Dr. Demat•est to Speall: placed in charge of the work: of The entire program will be brief, constructing the buildings, are the lasting only from 11 to 12 no~n. Yet following in regards to the first within this hour, Mr. Sebring's ad· plans: dress will be followed by Dr. w. H. April 6, 1813: Isaac Clute for S. Demarest (LL.D., Union, '11), W'aste of Time and Stuff president-emeritus of RutgeJ\s Uni- in wo:rlting on the first varsity, speaking on the Dutch con- plan .................... $17.00 tributions. to American culture, To Aat'!>n Burt for loss of President Fox, the unveilin.g of a Time and Stuff as above stone tablet, sunken in the chapel stated , .................. $1 '1.00 flo roand memorializing Dirck Ro- Other items show the practices meyn, and the singing o1 \The of labor in those times. In most of Dutchman's Song\ and other songs, the items showing the payment of and music by Dr. Elmer .A. Tid- well- diggers, stone- drawers, and marsh. day-laborers we find reference to ---o auantities of rum as part oi the U.C.C.A. To Begin Series Of Concerts Wedn~sday Wednesday evening, February 9, at 10 o'clock: in Silliman Flail, the College Christian Association will inaugurate a new series o-f infor- mal weekly concerts for thE enjoy- ment of the undergraduates. It has been announced by John Brand, '39, who is chairman of the com- mittee arranging the sel'iEs, that the programs will consist of re- corded classical music. wages. The art.:icle traces the work of Ramee from the time of his in- troduction to Union College by the wealthy David Parish or IJgdens- burg until be gained much promi- nence thro11ghout the country be- cause of his architectural ability. This contribution marks the com- pletiion .of the first complete his- tory of the construction of North and South Colleges. Sunday Chapel Speaker Will Be Brown of Yale The complicated p r a c e d u r e through which a bill introduced in the state legislature passes before it becomes a law was described to a group of Union College students in state and local government yester- day by an authority in the field, Oswald D. Heck, '24, speaker of the New York State Assembly. Speaker Heck received the stu- dents, who have been studying the legislative proce.;;ses of the different states, in the legislative chambers in Albany. He outlined as graphi- cally as possible the mechanisms in- volved in the passage of a bill. Using a sample bill, introduced in the past, he followed it from the time of its introduction through the stages of being placed in the assem- bly \hopper\, sent to its appropriate committee, considered in committee, returned to the assembly ftom·, de- bated on the floor, passed by the assembly, sent to the senate, and amended, rejected, or passed by the senate, sent to conference commit- tee, signed by the leaders of both ally sent to the governor. houses, and by both clerks, and fin- Preparations have been made for a seminar next week led by Assem- blyman Abbot Low Moffit for a dis- cussion of the underlying forces wnich shape the consideration and passage of legislation. 0 Daley To Visit Cam}ms George Daley, '92, sports editor of the New York Herald Tribune, wiil take up his annual residence on the campus in the capacity of honorary fellow in sports on Feb- ruary 11 to 12, according to ar- rangements by Professor J. Harold Wittner, director of athletics. A total of $23,663.50, the largest The college curriculum commit- amount of money from the largest tee announced in November that a number of alumni since 1925, w-as course in bibliographical methods contributed to the Union Colle;ge ·will be given in the second semes- Guest List Alumni Gift Fund in 1937, accord- ter of this year. Final arrange- The guests who will be on the ing to the figures made public in !Dents for the course are now campus tomorrow nig-ht, accord- the recently published Februa..ry u.ncLer way. T.he course, given be· ing to final lists turned in by fra- issue of the .Alumni Monthly. Clause there is a de:finite la~k of · ternities and non-fratErnity men Secretary Cllarles N. Waldron; :knowledge among tb.c college stu- last night, are as ·follows: who announced the total gifts, d. en ts in res.earch methods, will be Guests of Delta Ph.i fnternity writes that although one. or \'WO · e>pen only to seniors who have will be: Janet Gurney, Sce>tia; large subscriptions to the fund ·\Viii ll.igh scholastic ~tanlii,ngs. Students Janet Scantlebury, Schenectady; change the final total, \the success , ·will be admitted to the course only Jean Cockburn, Amsterdam; June of this fund is better measured by upon the recommendation l>f a W-inegar, Buffalo; Alice Eeynolds, the number of contributions, t'or c:ha.irman of the divisions of liter- . Schenectady; Lila Rockefeller, the purpose is to get all alurnni to a;ture, social studies, science and Schenectady; Win if r: ed Adams, think each year of the finan~ial . engineering. Schenectady; Rosedell .Alissand- needs of the college.\ The course will be in charge of rini, Beaver College, Pa. During the past year, 1.::23B; 1 1' alumni and friends made the coOn- librarian Helmer Webb, co lege 1- Guests of Delta Upsilon frater- bra.rian, and will deal especially nity will be: Pat Everly,.Sltidmore; tributions which amassed the la.rg- wt'th subJ'ect biograph\ of human- Arle Re ld s t\ \- t est sum <>ver turned over to 'the ~ ne yno s, co ta; ........ rgare ity and the arts. Mr. Webb will be White, Skidmore; Lila !IIathson, college. The number of contrib- ass-isted by Joseph C. Shipman, li- Albany State Teachers College; utors is 118 better ·than last ye.ar, brary councilor of the reference de- Rita Martin, Skidmore; Evelyn and more than 1,200 larger than partment, who wi!l teach subJ'ect C 11 S h tad D\ La h the year 1925 when $3,122 was ihe onne y, c enec y; · 10n s • total of contributions for the .first bibliography to those interested in er, Schenectady. f d scie,nce. Guests of Phi Gamma Delta fra- un · The new co·urse will enable stu- ternity will be: Kay Schilling, Ann Dr. Waldron, in his repo0rt., , dents to procure facts and infor- Sanford, Dottie La.mll, Nancy s~fess 1 es p~rtic;ularly thteh~esire,~hll't mation in a systematic order from Bogle, and Dotty Cla.rlt, of Skid- a a umm gtve some mg. '_. e references which rnigbt otherwise more; Betty Bond, Schenectady; gift we want is only one they o<Jilrl be closed to. them. d D J f Alb re.adily make, for we are certain an · ee esse, o any-· that if this were done, the •t.otaJ 0 Guests of Sigma Chi f1·aternity amount would be a substantial aid . Dr. Tidmarsh 'To Feature will be: Kay Hollanli, Estlier Strit- in developing theocollege\ . Wag·nei· a· t s·un·- day ·Chapel ter. Flo!,'ence Cruger, and Carol Le- Tourneau, all of Schenectady. Guests of Sigma Phi f1•aternity Band Will Give ConiCea·t At the regular Su.nday afternoon will be: Katherine :Matthews, organ recital in Memorial Chapel Katherine Gibbs School. Boston; this week Dr. Elmer .A. Tidma.1sh Charlotte Ochs, Kalarna~oD, · M:ich.; will present a program compose~ of Lynn Wolfe, and Betty Harring· the works of Richard Wagner. The ton, of Smith College. Tentative arrangements al'~· under way for a conce:rt of tb.~ Union College Band in Hann.a Hal1,, to be held during the last weelt· of March. Professor Charles. I:' .. Male, director of the organizaUon, announced today that the prog::rar:n would consist of both classical an-d popular numbers. recital will be broadcast by short- Guests of the Neutrals: Dorothy wave radio station W2XAD and Rowe, Schenectady; Ada Bukow- W2XAF at 4 p. m. ski, Albany State Teac'hers Col- The program will ln.clude: lege; Marian McKee, .Albany State UnionHosttol.O .. C.A.atNorth Creek: 1. Introduction to .Act Three and Teachers College, a.nd Buffalo; Prelude to Act One from \Lo- Marjorie Myers, Syracuse Univer- hengrin\ sity, and Schenectady,; Roberta Kast, Skidmore, and Pearl R.iver; 2. Forest Murmurs fxorn \Siegfried\ Lotta Largesse, Sauket J:nn-on-the- Dance of the A.pp:rentices from Hudson; Dorothy Sank.lil., Skid- \Die Meistersinger\ This Weekend;ClubFounded in 1933 $------------------------- 3. Traume, and Prelude and Liebes- more, and Brooklyn; Grayce tad from \Tristan and Isolde\· Brown and Marjorie Brown, of 4. Magic Fire Music, and Ride of Schenectady; Joan Ma.l'Shall of Skidmore. the Valkyries from \Die Wal- Guests of the Alpha JDelta. Phi lmre\ fraternity will be: JanEt M:arsh, ----a---- Bronxville; Rachel Honer, Wash- On the program next Wednesday \Fifth Symphony\ by Tschailtow- sky and \Symphonic Variations\ by Cesar Franck will be played. The programs will last about one hour and will be presented to an informal gathering. This new sex:ies will follaw along the lines of the concerts of the Rice String Quartet wnich the Christian .Association SJ)onsored last year. They are being jCOn- ducted to give students a place to meet .in the evening after their studying and listen to goo-d music. In the fall of 1933 the Union Out- ing Club was founded. Since then the organization ·has grown rapidly Dean-emeritus Charles R. Brown until it now assumes a place of con- of the Divinity School of Yale Uni- siderable importance in the col- versity, will speak at the chapel legiate group of outing clubs. Orig- services Bunday morning, February inally, the Club was formed for the 6, at 11 .a'clock. He will preach on purpose of getting together infor- \Religiou.<S Life Under These mal groups for hiking and \bum- Changed Conditions.\ . ming\ rides on the Erie Canal Dr. Brown. who fot• almost 20 barges, but as it grew and winter- years was dean of the Yale Univer- sports swept the country, the Club sity pivi:nlty School, has been ac- extended its activities to include of College Week chairman 'vas held; by Bob Beebe '39 and the e>ffl~e of Executive Secretary .js at pre:-sent held by Jack Bergstrom ~~8. •n:~e third office, that of Conference Chairman, Is held this yea1· by Ell- Schenectady Alnmni Vote ingtan, D. c.; Mavgu.erite Fowler, To Bac •· B·Io.c•· U DI'nnei' Glen Ridge, N. J.; Clar-a Stetson, 1.\ fi Hingan, Mass.; Helen E-vans, New nor (loading of Mount Holyok<E. Wednesday, Feb, 2:-Members of Today, Saturday and Sunday7 tbe the Schenectady Alumni .Assocla-· Outing Club is holding its an=nt1al tion at a meeting in Hale House· I. 0. C. A. Ski Week-End at ]\;iorih tonight voted to give wh.ole-hearted Creek. Seventy college unde,gra-d- support to the eleventh annual uates will be there and will ·roepq- Block U dinner whiCh will be held sent, Union, Dartmouth, Prat1:, ::R. March 30. It also v-oted to continue P. i:., Skidmore, Smith, Vassar n:~:~d the series of pre-ga.me dinners w:ith Vermont colleges. The pul!\jiose of alumni of the instit.utions whose the week-end is to gatl,er the. :va.:xi- teams play Union.. George Daley, aus clubs together for a thorougbly sports editor of the H:erald Tribune enjoyable time of. skiing, sln.ging, will be present at the next dinner, square-dancing and general good· to be held the evening of February fellowship: and also, to Pl'llomote 11, before the Hamllt<ln-Union ·bas- interclub activities in keeping wi.th ltetball game, York City, and Margo-t Burnett, Buffalo. Guests of Lambda Chi Alpha will be: Rosemary Hanlon and Mary Jane Campbell. Mildred Elley School, Albany; M!i.rjorie Ingleston, Albany, and HEnriet Meany, of Albany s·tate Teachers College. All undergraduates and :members of the faculty are urged .to attend. ----01---- K. N. Elects Offieers tive in theological worlt since 1896 skiing and snowsho~ing. when he entered the ministry as In 1935 the Cluh joined the Inter- pastor of the First Congregational collegiate OJiting Club Association Church .of ·Oakland, Calif., and in and since that time has come to its 1911 he· bec11-me dean at Yale. present size of nearly eighty mem- Dr. Bt·<Jwn has been special lee- bers. Union'<~ prestige in the I. 0. turer on ethics at the Leland Stan- · C. A. is considerable. For the past ford Ju.nior University, Lyman three years it ha.S organized and Beecher Lecturer for Yale, special run I. 0. C. A. College Week, which Four juniors constitute the .re- lecturer at Cornell and Columbia, is a weelt of hiking and camping in cently elected group of officers of. Earl lecturer at the Pacific School· one of the I. 0. C. A.'s important Kappa Nu. TI:J.ey a.re President, of Religion, Ingersoll !ecture1· on functions. Of the three executive Irving J. Nelick, Vice-President Immorta.llty at Harvard, and John officers of the ], 0. C. A., Union has Myer Ries, Treasur.er M:ax Len,. Calvin M:~Nair lecturer at the Uni- eatablished a precedent :by holding and Secretary David L .. Y11nich. , versity ~f North carolina. two of them thls. year. The position the spirit and purpose of the I. 0. Dr. C, W. Wo()da.ll entertained C. A. .the meeting tonig:ht with colored The Ski Week-End will begin io- pictures of· his trip this summer ·in night with a supper at Skiil't.abEm, Europe and also pictures of many Union's Outing Club cabin, aud ·\9ill · ·scenes taJien In Vermont a.t~d at continue through Saturday. Lake Geot•ge. Guests of the Theta N'u Episolon fratemity are: Dol·ores ·lCnight of Littleton, N. H.; Naomi Clirickner of Eagle Mills; Elsie Welllng of Johnsonville; Rita :MacGregor of Schenectady; Beth Walsh of Sche- nectady; Agnes Murray of Schenec- tady. Guests of the Delta Chi fra.ter- nity are: Eieanor Lothoall of ·Glov- ersville; Barbara Est-.es of Benning- ton, Vt.; Macrgurite Joual'd of Sara- (Oontinued on P84Jti 4)

Page T-wo THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, fEBRUARY 4, 1938 ,, : I •, !. FOUNDED 1877 \A Causa Ptrsa Parole Jl Jsai\ 1937 Member 1938 Plssociated Colle5iate Press Dl.stnbutor of Colteeicil:e Di5est t~EPRES~NTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY tJationaiAdvertising Service, Inc. Col/et.e 'ft~blishBrs Represematiue 420 MADISON A.VE. NEW YORK. N.Y. CHICAGO • BosTON - LOS AflGELES • SAN. ·FRANCISCO !f:'he official newspaper of the students of Unioll Cull ege Published 'l'uesday and Frlday.s through- ·Oout th,; college year, except during Chnstmas and Spring ·reces:ses. Put.licatlon Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, !:';\. Y., Telephone 4-4141 En tere<l at the SchenePtady l'ost Office \\ Second Cia~• ~!all l\latter \'ut.seription price Five cents a COP{'; $3.00 a. yN\1': deli vere<l anywhere in Lite Untted State\. EHturial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union Co.Ilege Carn 1 mo;. TeleiJhone, Schenectad~ 4_-0;_1..:.3_3. __ Senior Board E Editor-in-Chief IHyrnan A. nzer ....•.•.•... • · · 11 S. S. Suuth College-6·9728 ::RO>bert H. Ferguson .......... Managing Editor l'si Upsilon House-4-8710 ..Julius J. Bundg-us.,. ............. News Editor 9 s. S. South College-fi-9728 :Henry D. Hartmann ....•..... Feature Editor 1· 0. G. D.-6-~620 -Ca.rl R. Trahman ...•....• , ... , •. Sports Editor Kappa. Sigma Hou,e-4-~325 .JoJm H. Gilmour .•.....•.... Business Manager Delta Ups!lon Huuse-4-7922 Malvin M. Miller .• Associate Bu.siness Manager Kappa .:o-;u-4-7331 A:tf 1 :ed R. Seigle., ......... Circulation Manager Kappa ;o.;u-4·n31 Junior Board ASSOCIATE ED1TOHS J,'t·ederkk \V. Heouembourg H. Wyman Hitchcock ll\bert A. Saaf Jerome Smith Edward c. Retartyk rtobert C. Walter, Jr. Friday, February 4, 1938 WELCOME HERE T<> the guests ()f the college who will be on the campus tomorrow night to enjoy the secr;nd All-College dance of this year we ex- t~nd our warmest greetings. The opportunity tQI brighte11 the mid-winter aspects of an ~ice-bound campus has been justly taken up bs the Student Council and the function ex- pertly handled by the committee in charg·e. It is the college's dance from now on. CLASS ENDOWMENTS A minute fraction of the class of 1937, fi-ve- out ()f over 160, last year pledged itself to ba~y an insurance policy which had provision iJJ. it fol' endowing Union College with at lea1;t $100.00 each on its maturing in 15 yeea:rs. The rec(}rd would seem almost negligi- ble and extremely discouraging. However, in 1952 Union College will be cettain of receiving $500.00 from the ma- tured policies ()f that small fraction who w-anted to get things started. In case of deeath of any of those men before that time the college benefits as it would if the policy matured. 'Lhe fact that something was done last y,ea.r offers some hope that something more will be done this year to build up a definite emdowment fund for the college, coming in tm the colleg·e within 15 years. Lf the senior class starts now-and it sceerns fairly obvious that insurance will be t:aken by most college graduates-all the cllasses downward, continuing year after y ea..r, will be laying the foundation for a nev-er-ending endowment. Wh~t the individual preferences may be ANONYMOUS COMPLAINTS The Cider Mill The Conc()!'diensis has received a number of wmplaints from bold, but anonyrnous students. Fer the sake oJ bringing to light what may encourag€ improvement we print several of thes€ complaints. ·111 Book Review 11· • The Prodigal Parents, Sinclair' lk==;;;;;;;============;;;F;;;o;;;r=t;;;h;;;e;;;s;;;a;;;k;;;;e;;;;;;o;;;f;;;a;;;r;;;..,;;;;;;;;'m=en;;;t=l•e•t ;;;u;:.s 1 Lewis. 301 pp. Book Store. As a general rule, this isn't .a b ~ •t f · \ \Can't you campaign for peace in the lousey libraTy? Where can a guy study? I. Suffer?\ \Where <)(}es all the dust on the li- brary books come from\? R.\ \Transcl'ipts of scholastic recm·ds for students who want to get them here cost $1.00 ~1:fter the first copy is made. For students who need several records for applications for jobs and graduate studv the cost mounts up. Other col- lege~ have a charge that comes within limited means of most students. Is this justice'!\ AMERICAN TRAGEDY? The Associated Press, International News Service and United Press, through the me- dium of theit· thousands of cooperative news- papers in the country, are giving- the public a ring-side seat at the greatest show of the weel{, the State of California v Paul Wright. The \inside stot\y\ is now the outside story, with suggestive declarations from these as- sociations about how \much of Wright's testimony was unprintable.\ It seems a little absurd to write of how little of the ot·iginal language could be of- fered up for public consumption and then to list in gory details, without the use of the naughty words, how Wright killed his wife and her lover. Slop of American journalism finds a very avid reading public. There isn't the sliD\htest doubt that the story is interesting, .., revealing, thrilling, etc. But who would care if the story were not printed with colorful descriptions and phrases. The reading public will always be at hand for news, and it can thrive without the \interpreters\ of news expanding on what is extreme in human be- havior. • assume that the Idol Board is all \-and pursm · o sappmess. crusading column. Cmsades, 1c seems, are usually pretty dull when .that Dr. Johnson infers it is. ~As they conce 1n campu~· 111atters .. ~ut a ·member, I have seeh it to be a The worm turns, and· so does Siri- a certain ma,nifestatton of actlvtty sincere, hard-working, if uninspired, clair Lewis. Don't let the name fool on the left flank has aroused the body, doing a commendable job in you. It means that Lewis· has that Couer de Lion in me, and I take the face of an unusaal dearth .of color hair. He has aLso found out my lance, or pen, or typewrite_r in writing talent at Union.) If we that the middle· class is the back- hand in all good hurr1or, to JOUSt make the above assumption, surely bone of the nation from coast to with' Burges Saladin Johnson and we can agree that it would l:>e the coast. Story concerns itself with his Paynim composition class. duty of the only trained body of the philosophy of Ftedk Wm Corn- h writers on the campus to come to ploy, dealer in autos. Son . and It appears that the sai~ Jo nson the Board's assistance with fiocks c.'aughter get mixed up with a 'Com- and the said class, haVlng heard · d t of praiseworthy manu.scripts, pro - munist. Parading through the pages sorld gmmblings of \disconten uct of association with Dr. John- are the Lewis:ian charades of with the Idol,\ have taken ·it upon th themselves to solicit, by means of son, in order that, .despite e un- Americana: Bert Whizzle, Paul small monetary considerations, lit- steady hands at its h.elm, the Col- Popole, Ben Bogey, Sagittaria Til- th h'dd lege magazine might still ·be an lery, etc, Scene is laid somewhere erary material from · e 1 en object for pointers with .pride. It between Albany and Utica, and geniuses of the college. The con- is impossible to believe that the Lewis makes mention of a sur- tl ·ibutions so rrathet.ed are to be ff • ~ f editms did not make .every e ·or. r··ealist from .Schenectady. Lewis' used either in the p1oduction o · a · to obtain such assista.nce. But how idea of a Communist very impres- magazine by the class itself, or m. f h d d t many members .o t e a vance sive: Humphre.r Bogart and George a magnaminous gift to the presen . t 'b t t ' Idol board. The deep hidde!l .pur- composition claBs dtd ·conn u e o Raft hybridized. Whole thing vmy ·h the first issue of tbe Idol? The amusing and quite ineffectual. Ten- pose of this activity is to s ame the Idol staff for its present in- answer, Rollo, is zero. der love story, too. dolence and stimulate it, as a gad- The above figure might point to Several of the Most High who fly stim'ulates, to jurnp about in the a conspiracy among .the advanced like to sample current bwmides future, to offer dollars .for contribu- composers to make the Idol look. rationalize thus: tions, to conduct itself like a bunch bad. (I believe it JJOints to an Hy Enzer: \-and he won the of live wires-like, in fact, the ad- amazing lack of merit in the work Nobel Prize!\ vanced composition class. of the members of .the said cla.ss.} Ed Retartyk: \Looks like his Now, r wish to state here and at But it very certainly t•emoves from other thing, 'It Can't Happen present that this irifet:red slap on both class and mentor any bash, Here;' frightened him.\ the collective fannies of the Idol for inferred criticism of, or com- d h t P 'et 1 ·t 10 · n w 1 ·th, the Idol. And to my Robt. Ferguson: \The title is the Boa1·d is not justifte -t a , mor·e- · 'fi t t · ther tl D J hn ml .nd, at least, 1 ·t ve 1 ·y, very cer- only srgn1 can no e m an o - over it .re ects upon · r. o son · d' d f It d ' B d · ta 1 ·nly places the comrmsition class w1se me were an au y pro uc- and his sheep. The Idol oar IS t· , b (of Whl 'ch I have lately become a wn. a group of individuals chosen . Y the Publications Board, of whrch member) in an extremely unfavor- Robt. Saaf: \Mr. L. goes right Dr. Johnson is a member. Presum- able light. on laying eggs. At $2:50 an egg, 'th h' · who wouldn't?\ ably Dr. J·ohnson, wt · IS smcere I think the comiJosition class. interest in seeing Union College should leave the production of col- •R. Deyo: \Why doesn't he make represented by an excellent lit- lege magazines in the hands where up his mind?\ era·ry magazine, hent every effort Dr. Johnson has helped to place it. H. M. Seider: \Those who will and exerted considerable influence I also think the cmnposition dass howl the loudest in derogation of to see that the best 111en for each should cooperate wholeheartedly, Mr. Lewis' really excellent if minor post were chosen. The adjective with contributions and suggestions, productions are just those at whom \best\ would obviously mean those to make the maga2ine all that the book is directed-the pink- who would run around most look- they feel it sh<1uld be, but isn't .. tinged pseudo-,intellectual cornbusti- ing for contributions, contributing Right in that com.position class bles who annoy their parents by themselves, bending every effort to there are three Idol Board mem-· writing dithyt·ambic book reviews achieve a neat product, ideal in bers, always ready to hear critic- for college publications.\ composition and co11tent. Then, if isms offered in claes and to accept, Jack Motion Malone: \I should the men they chose '\eFe not \best oh so willingly, anything of merit say that 'The Prodigal Parents' has who would be at fault but the Pub- that the class may have to offer. too many turgid, tautological pas- lications Board, and, as a member sages; too mucll aposiopetic con- thereof, Dr. Johnson. H. M.S. versation; too frequent lapses into Lewis' least effective field, deep I ll thought. I should say that, but I I M 0 T 1 () N won't. I haven't read the book.\ We must have so·l11ething. Two G. Loadwick Peck: \Like most l'-===============!1 of the men of the older generation, columnists requested us to pinch- .. - Mr. LeWis gazes on youth with a hit this issue. We have accepted J'aundiced eye, and tritely thinks Penitentiai-y is a cinemadapta- the arauous task for the one whose tion of Criminal C&de. How very the young people of today are not rep is liable to do least harm, the fortunate for the >Mountebanks! as they were in the 'good old days.' 'f t th .Just before their production of How true, Mr. Lewie, and when did one who has the most 1 no e you wake up? That's one of the 1 h \ · d Winterset last year, there raged best readers. \Carte B anc e sar within these columns a suspiciously things we can p<>int to with pride.'' \.Jabie.\ timely controversy over the rela- M. V. IDOL DRIVEL The fact tint newspapers are not accu- 1·atelv informed on certain subjects may be excu~ed on the gmunds of ignoranee, but there is no excuse when it comes to a mattel' of judgment and broa<l-minded good taste. The Paul Wl'ight stench should be relegated to page 27 in a 26-page paper. The real tragedy is not the murder and its triaL The .tragedy lies in the foolish belief that such things should be glaringly brought to every- one's attention. Naml'S in th«> noose: ldol-ers are tive merits of the stage .and ::;creen quite puffed over a surprise they versions of Mr. Anderson's play. If intend to pull in their next. Of it did little to heighten an already course, no one need tell the board wide-awake intere::;t in the play, it that this wlll add little all by it- at .Jeas>t disclosed a hearty pl'e- self' Les (Campa.igm) Paftrath re- ference for the foort:llghts on the cently found himself locked in the part of those cO>ncerned. This, then, Administration Bldg. cellar. Before could be an opening for another finding a window solution to the battle royal. 1t could be, but it problem that Saturday noon, the prob;ably won't; f·or the very good reverend devouted his first com- reason that the issue would be 1oo plete chapter law ... 1\lartin Loder, ane.,sided. Penitentia.ry, you see, is the Soph who was not assigned a distinguished by i!ts slow movement, chapel seat last September was by its lack of well-sustained con- called in by the Dean. Question: finuity, and by a completely unin- did M. L. attend the required num- spired performance from John ber of times? Certainly! Howard. The s·tage Jllay, we mean, Dog, Herrick and \A\ Witham will ·be much ·better. we suggest as the three ring circus We hope. of the Victorian Era. (Eng. 24.) However, certain members of the During Freddy Wyatt's absence local cast will have to work hard the temporary campus cop seems to better the .acting of Marc to be stopping in on S<luth College Lawrence, Arthur H<Ohl and Robert residents. Though many of the Barrat. ATTE·NTION U.NION MEN I ON RAMEE Some of the extensive research which has been done by Professor Harold A. Larrabee and Godman Hislop em the early histcny of Union Colle_g·e is compiled in the February issue of The Alumni Monthly. The article brings the Union College of today so many more facts closer to its honored beginnings. For the concise and interesting presentation the co-authors are to be complimented. The celebration of Founders' Day on Feb- ruary 25 will give Union another occasion to cast its eyes backwards on its past. The l'e- search and scholarship required to make that past known to us, to us who aie supposedly rebuilding the greatness that was Union, is something we have a right to 1·ecognize and be proud of. FOR OLD UNION Dean's favorite rules have been Mr. Donald Duck, an encephalic broken, North College would be Anatida and 1amellircshal Lotha.rio, much more interesting for the is all present and acc~>unted for in patroler, eh Stan 7 a brief bit of mor,ali!oing which has Where is Bill 1V.bl1vey? We might to do with the a<ivisability of re- say here that his parents are wise stralnt. M3:. Duck turns in a wow enough to keep it a secTet. If Willy of a performance. 1s sick we're sorry. If he's well it's a miracle. Georg-e Ha.rt temporarily sent to the showers has been brought back to the Mountebanks scene. He is going to pains to design the set. George is a familiar figur,e around the County Jail-getting angles for his stage. For color and quiet he has moved to Nott Terrace, but was just given noti<:e by his landlady. War, or the Hale House Problem. To heat lunch rolls, a clever one lit a bonfire in h!s S{)Up plate,- Yes. Larry H. did ·leave the nickel. Several campaigns a.re on the verge of upsetting the hall. We can say that everything is tops there com- pared to the Yale Commons. There are many organizations on the campus that need a cleaning. Dirtiest in politics i.s the Philoma- thean Society. Well, how can graft be avoided when as 1nuch as forty dollars can be granted for ex- penses on a trip? The International Relations Club, . .. \' Vaudeville: \Can 'You Take It?\ is a great improvement over last week's offering. :m has two good production numbers, several excel- lent individu:a:l acts, .and a novelty. In reverse: the \novelty\ is ;pre- sented by a young rnan who pours ali sorts of beverages from what is apparently a water 'bottle. If you'd real1y like to put to a test, ask for a nl:loclate malted milk,, with v,ani:lla floating. The \excellen•t individual acts\ are the jug1gler, the acrobatic dan<:er, and Pa;nsy t:he horse. You'U recognize the \two good produc- tion numbers.\ • * * .A.t the State is Tile Bad Man of Brimstone, wi.tb Wa:llace Beery and Virginia Bruce. The previews in- dioote that it's pretty (air fare for the family. If you haven't got a family, get busy. We might even get another crop (,f Williams refugees. For Latest National and College News- Sports and Features READ THE Schenectady SUN EACH SUNDAY Complete Coverage COMICS • MAGAZINES for insurance, once the matter has been The vm·sity basketball team seems to l>e g-iven more serious attention than it now off to a fresh start this week-end with its receives, there seems little to stand in the first contest since the examination period. way of benefitting the college permanently c. c. N. Y. represents the prize the Dutch~ a11d in a fairly large degree. man five seeks in every competition with a so active recently, .passed away yesterday afternoon in Bailey Hall, when fourteen men who couldn't agree met to lay future plans. Send no flowers. To make Union famous, two po- tential practiCal jokers planned to plant gold under the Psi U house. Picture a gold rush to Schenectady. Now that our space is all Cmis)used up, we thank the authori- ties for letting us ta.ke a crack. We might never get the whip again so in closing may we say that every- thing in this col! ege is as good as the college itself. D. L. OVER SO FEATURES ONLY Sc If less than one-thirtieth of a class can do- metropolitan team- an upset. To Coach n..a:te $500, one-half can donate almost $10,- Nitchman a11d his enthusiastic squad we ex- 01()0-without being too gTeatly inconven- tend our best wishes for a result the C()Jlege ienced. can be prou<l of. AU members of the editorial and business st;\ffs of The Concordiensis \Vill meet next Wednesday afternoon at 5 o'clock in the Publica.ti<>ns Office to formulate plans for 1938-89. Va :Stl Cih RE spitE ·eOm yans to i1 ·.men .quin the New and Unh ·Tue: ln ,pone .faciJ CUll' on 1 ·dar. the ·ate : allo1 exar Mon tion Gyn Nels B< byt seve tenc first vete gen1 day pro! aga G1a pm' at secc Inti mat the whi perJ H Mill to z fon the has stal a Lar tior rerr Joh Do' wit T unc nov Pat as anc wa; hig mi< ko' fen vet v ag~ gu: to aid Na ioc 193 sor gu: j spz fiv VEll ad: COl Ha tas str 47 tu1 wi Lo po l Ta Pn G. s,• B~ Sn w w <'a nt St St w SE i<i M (jj rr D c c lv. ll T s r: G

Sinclair does Sin- fool has that ound out back- coast ta with Corn- Son and a'Com- the pages of Paul taria Til- and a sur- Lewis' impres- George bing very Ten- who h1omides won the like his Happen itle is the an other- y produc- right an egg, he make who will of t if minor whom the pink· combusti- by k reviews \I should has pas- petic con- into deep but I book.\ most with a thinks are not old days.' when did of the pride.\ M.V. I • s- DAY erage THE GONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1938 Page Three Va-rsity Five Meets.·Freshman Hockey Team · .rr=========~ BOW'LING AVERAGES Delta Phi ................ . Sigma Chi ............... . 5 0 American League Strong N.Y. Teams,, Surprises With 3-1 Win . Led by the stener offensive play- , By BILL KETZ Ave1age.; of tl:ose who have bowled nine games or more in OLD UNION mg of Laughlin MacKinnon and ··~==============d.l lh€ American League, through Jan. 20: iCity College Game on Tap Bra~ford Grant, by Lhe helpful de- .. Saturday,· -columbia :fen.s!ve ·showing- of Bill Hartt and Friday, Februru-y 4th :l'layt>r Games High High by .the near~perfee.t .goal tending of In '93 Union reentered the New S-GanH' Single Average Host Tuesday Dudley Holmes, the Garnet fresh- Yo·rk State Intercollegiate Baseball G 3 mrnons · · · · · · · · · · · · · 11 682 253 190.3 '·.man hockey aggregation came' League. The loop was composed of Randall · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 15 598 221 165.2 th1·ough with its first victory of the teams from Colgate, Hamilton, Ho-· Ame.i · · · · · · ·. · ... · .. ·...... 15 508 192 159.0 Refreshed from a two-week re-' season Wednesday, defeating the bart, Rcx:hester, Syracuse and Hayne!·, D. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 15 493 190 157.2 spite in intercollegiate basketball Pawling School sextet, .three to one, Union , . , Dr. Linhart ·is making· Mara · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 9 551 193 156.4 ·Competition, the Union College . on the Bear Mountain Rin·k. a g.reat success of his gymnasium Hammer·stl om · · · · · · · · · · · · · 12 487 199 154.2 varsity ·five today looked forward The local year-Jin,gs spen•t the firs.t work. \The faculty appreciates the 'Gra,nt, H. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 12 492 172 150.1 to its two New York City engage-' per-iod accustoming themse-lves to advantages offered, and the sight. Shugg · · · · · ·' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 15 530 229 149.6 ments with top-notch metropolitan· the ·rink conditions and to the tac- of a boxing match between the pro· Feldman · · · · · · · · · · · ·- · · · · · · 9 -179 178 149.3 quintets during the next four days, ·tics_ of their opponents, waiting· fessor of mental and moral philoso- Duchschet er · · · · · · · ·. · ·. · · 11 480 a80 146.6 the one with the City College of,, unt_il the· second q).larter to . roll phy and the junior professor of Rifenbary · · · · · · · · · · · · · . · .. · 15 499 187 146;2 New York team tomorrow night, th_el·r maclllne mto action. Mac- modern languages is no unusual McManus · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 9 475 197 144.3 and the second with Columbia; :Kmnon caught the P.awling defense one\ . . _ In '98 news had just M~ster·son · · · · ·- · · . · · . . . . . . 13 502 190 143.3 University's power'ful aggregation unawares at the ·very outset of reached the campus that Kilpatriclt, Shepard · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .. ·. · · 12 439 171 143.2 ·Tuesday night. · ~he mid~!~ _sess~on, scoring a goal '98, running in Ireland had just Minkin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 447 182 142.7 In meeting their fii st-ra te op-· lll the llllttal 45 seconds of play. lost a three-qua 1>ter mile race to Gilmottr · · · · · · · . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 457 169 142.2 ,ponents the Dutchmen will also :bei M?ntg,omery knottecc the score four Linder in 3:13.4. Kilpatrick had Ml.llphey · · · · · · · · · ·. · · . . . . . . 15 448 167 140.9 facing the strongest rivals of the' rn_mutes later a;nd the ,period ended previeusly defeated Linder over the Cammack · · · · · · . . . . . . . . . . 10 458 181 140.5 cmrent season, consecutively listed' With <l: o·ne-all tie. . half-mile distance in 1:57.4 .... In · Tanne1· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·- .. · 12 475 19fi 140.4 on the Union winter sports ·cal en_; Durmg. ~he iinal period Grant 1903 Professor Perrin of Boston Adams · · · · · · · · · · · ·. · ·. · ·.. . 15 490 183 140.3 -dar. Realizing this only too well,' and •MacKmno~: pooled their re- University attacked football and l';;;=====;========================d.l the Garnet players too It appropri-, 5 ?urces acco';ln-Ling for two addi- concluded that \ev€n a bull fight is. ·• ·ate advantage of the week vacation twna;l one-pomters for the Union not to ~e compared to a football alloted them because of mid-year' first-year squad. Grant slipped the game.\ Reverend• McPherson of examinations, then settled down:, p~ck past ,the. Pawling .goalie in La.wrencevil!e Preparatory School ~onday afte~noon for the resurnp- 4.15 and M~cK1l)non duplicated ~he answers, \I would 1ather have one Intramural Basketball Schedule BOWLING LADDER .bon of practiCe sessions in Alumni feat m 10.41. Head-up defensiVe student killed occasionaliy in a ' February 4, 7:30-Sigma Chi vs. Gym under the tutorship of Coach: maneuveJ:s _hy H~rtt and Grant in game of football than have all the North Col·lege; 8:30~Phi Delta Nelson Nitchman. the ·:em.ammg mmutes checked all bo:ys rot to death in college\ ... Theta vs. Phi Gamina Delta. S h }JOSSible rallies by the Pawling at- Must have been a nice gentle game February 5, 1 :15-Phi Sigma op omores May Start tackers · th d · m · ose ays. Delta. vs. Kappa Alpha; 2:15-Chi Because ·of the splendid showings: ______________________ _::___________ Psi vs. Sigma Phi; 3:15--Alpha by the sophomore group in the past' .'CJ k S d Cl T Phi Delta vs. Alpha Delta Phi; several games, Coach Nitchman in-· 1~oc ey . qua 'oses .I..Ce Season 4:15--Phi Sigma Kappa vs_ Delta tends including the entire squad of Chi. first-year men along with the liT R n 1 February 7, 7:30-NOl'th College veterans, when the Union contin-< ff' ith . c a • in Troy.,. Loses to Army vs. Kappa. Nu; 8:30---South Colleg-e gent departs for New York Satur- vs. Sigma Phi. day morning. Coach Nitchman will --- <t------------------ February 8, 7:30---Psi Upsilon vs. Na,tional League Team W. Theta Delta Chi 00 ... 00 ... 14 Phi Delta Theta .......... 14 Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Phi Sigma Delta .......... 11 Beta Theta Pi ........ _ .... 10 Kappa Sigma ............ . 6 L. 4 4 6 7 8 12 w Delta Upsilon ........... 17 Lambda Chi Alpha ..... _ 12 Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . 11 Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Alpha Delta Phi ........ _ 9 Chi Psi ................. 8 Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 DALEY'S 414 State St. Featuring GOOD FOOD AND DRINKS Booth and Counter Service proJ;>a.bly start four of his yearlings Since yesterday's inclement wea- Delta Chi; 8:30-Theta Delta Chi aga!llst C. C. N. Y ., plus Captain ther forced the cancellation of the Paul, only to see Curtin again put vs. A.lpha Delta Phi. G1ant Smith. Should this strategy last scheduled home game for the Army ahead with a 14:42 goaL prove effective against the Beavers,. Union College varsity hockey team In an early third-period thrust at present proud pos-sessors of against the Colgate University sex- five Union skaters were sent to the second place in the New York tet today, the G-arnet stlckmen have fr<Jnt, with the result that Paul tied Intra-City League, Coach Nitch· made preparations for their con- the score at two-all ·in 5:56, and. man, in a·l likelihood, will adopt eluding match of the season with •helped brilliantly in holding on for· the same plan against Columbia the Rensselaer Polytechnic Insti- the z-emaining minutes. But Dona- which this year boasts a near~ tute team Saturday at Troy. hue of Army sealed the fate in the -----0---- Freshman Five Opposes Nott Terrace Saturday For The All-College Dante perfect record. Today's postponement received a overtime period. Herb Watson and either Gem·~e · f Almy Union Miller or Hudson Tanner are slat\'ed warm receptwn rom the Union C squad, foll<Jwing its thrilling, yet fa- · Barnard ............. Borden to receive the opening nod for the tiguing encounter with the Army RD Sussman ............ Hawley forward positions, Captain Smith Cadets at west Point Wednesday. LD Blanchard ........ Breymaie1 the center post, and Lou Carr, who Desirous of having the men at their C Grant ............ Thompson has shown equal proficiency as a best playing form especially against R. W Hazeltine ............ Brown stalwart defense man as well as Union's traditional rivals, Coach LW Nolan .................. Bond a stellar offensive threat, and Walter J. Nelson gave the group ----o--- Larue Buchanan the guard sta- t 't f S · t S tions. Held in resel ve will be the oppor um Y or a rest by scheduling • Wimmers a - • yracuse no light practice. remaining vete1-an combination of John Schultz, David Miller, George The Dutchmen's three-to-two de- Doyle, Charles Wiberley, along feat at the hands of the U. S. Mill· with Bill Busino. tary Academy sextet in an overtime C. C. N. Y. Veteran Team The Lavende1· and Black squad, under the mento1•ship of the re· nowned Nat Holman has \Red\ Paris, the fastest man on the team as well as a leading set shooter, and Izzy Katz comprising the for- ward wall, Bernie Fliegel, team high scorer doi11g business at the middle stand and Jal'mm~ and Lef- kowitz making up the tight de- fense, on a quintet composed of all veterans. With Captain Johnny O'Brien again directing the team from his guard outpost, Columbia has risen to the heights with the supporting aid of sophomores Retana and Naylor, as forwards, veteran Mac- loci as converted center from a 1937 guard, and southpaw Ander- son as O'Brien's teammate at guard . ----0•---- match Wednesday was a heart- breaking setback for the local squad, since the Garnet was forced to come from behind to tie the score twice. McCaffrey ot' Army tallied the first goal mid-way through the opening quarter when AI Bor·den permitted the puck to slip between l:is legs. Ca.}ltain Fritz l:iawley en- abled the Union team to draw abreast of the Cadets in 14:30 of the second period with the aid of Joe DeWitt's Lunch Room and lap Room We Serve Better Food for Better Health 118-12B JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall ·The Union College swimming team will engage in its second road ta.nk meet of the year tomorrow, Journeying to Syracuse to oppose the Syracuse University natators. Captain Arnold G-ordon will again lead the group. -I PEARSON'S I OB Nott Terrace 1 SODAS • CANDY s u E MAGAZINES R N PAPERS - ICE CREAM v c E H CIGARETTES D One Win, One Loss CLOYERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVICE Phone 6·81 04 919 State St. Aided by a second-half scoring spree, the Union College varsity five turned back. the McGill Uni- versity quintet of Montreal, Can- ada, 46 to 19, on the Alumni gym court January 21, then traveled to~~~~~~~~;;~~~~~~~~;;;~~~~~~;;~;;~;;;;~~~ Hamilton the following night to \i taste defeat at the bands of .a strong Colga,te University sqaad·, 47 to 31. Captain Grant Smith fea- tured for the darnel in the foi'ti:JJll' with 17 points, while soph<>more Lou Carr managed to tally 16 points against Colgate. 633 State St. Thru to Nott Terrace PHONE 6-3456 ln quest of its second straight victory, the Garnet fres.hman bas- ketball team will cross Union Street Saturday night to meet the Nett Terrace High School quintet on the latter's home court. Co~ch Nelson Nitchman has in- dicated that he intends starting the same combination that proved so effective against Manlius School in th~ freshmen's 'last game. Jack Vanmer and Bill Ford will .prob- abl)' lineup at the ,forward posi- tions, Adam Ciesinski at the center post and John Canfield and Mickey Rathlev at the guard stations. Morris \Tiny\ Weintraub Al Tur- chicl< and Howie Mott will be held in reserve. The freshman game promises to be .a ha.rd-fought affair, on the· basis of comparative scores, since both the Union yearlings and Nott Terr-ace have lost to Mont Pleasant High School by decisive scores. es • The summaries: Unlon-(46) G F P li~~;;;;;;~~~~~~~~~~~~;;;;;;;;~~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ Tanner, If .. . . .. . .. . .. 0 2 2 Palmer, If .. 00 , • • • .. • .. 1 0 2 G. ~Hiler, rf .......... 0 1 1 St•hultz, rf oo •• 00 , ••• , • 1 0 2 Buohanan, c ........... 3 0 ·G Smith, Jg ........... 00 • 6 5 17 Watson, lg oo .. 00 00 .... 4 0 8 Wiberley, Jg , . oo • oo • , • 1 0 Z C&i'l', rg .. 00 .. 00 ... 00 , 3 0 6 nusino, rg ........... , 0 0 0 Totals .............. 19 B 46 Compliments BRANDHORST PHARMACY l\IcGIIl-00) G F P Stot·rs, lf ........ 00 .... 1 0 2 Shipley, rf . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 2 4 Wykes, c .... 00 00.. .. • 4 0 8 sandbel'g, c 0. 0 0. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 Kingston, lg ........ oo, 2 0 4 Mislap, lg .......... 00 • 0 0 0 mannlsio, rg . . . . . . . .. . 0 0 0 Totals ...... oo ..... oo 8 3 19 \On the Corner\ UNION ST. and GILLESPIE L. H. 'Brandhorst L E. Brandhorst Score at hafltime-Union, 13: J\k- Gill, R. Referees-CasRecly, Wtlllams. I•'ouls commille<l-Unlon, 11; Mr<lill il.li~;;~~~~~~~;;;~~;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;~~~~;;;;~;;;;~;;;;~~ • ~ * lTnion-(31) G F P W>etson, rf . . . • . • . . • • • . 3 0 6 Palmer, rf ............ 0 0 0 Carr, If . oo .. • .. • .. • .. • 7 2 16 Wlberley, If ........... 0 0 0 Buchanan, c . 00 ....... 1 0 2 G. Miller, rg .•....•••. 1 0 2 Sclmltz, rg .... 00 .. • • • • 0 0 o Smith, lg ............. 1 3 ~ Busino, lg ..... , ...... 0 0 0 Totals ............ , .. 13 5 31 Colgatc-(47) G F 1.' J)ebus, rf ......... oo • • 2 0 4 Carls, rf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Clinton, lf .....•. oo • • • • 8 1 17 M.acharg, If ..... oo • .. • 0 0 0 Hazard, c ...... oo. .. • • 3 1 7 Tut·evon, rg , . oo ....... 5 1 11 Sawyer, rg .. , , • • . . . . • • 2 0 4 Dieffenbach, lg ........ 0 1 1 G-ilson, lg ...... oo ..... 1 1 3 Totals oo oo oo ........ 21 5 47 Schenectady Engravinq Co. 147JilYST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS Your Girl Friend Will Appreciate A Corsage FROM T. J. KIN.C, FLORIST OVERHEAD CROSSING-STATE ST. PHONE 4-6444 • • at the 13 18 L 1 6 7 9 9 10 14 16

Pag€ :Four Loring McMillen'28 Leads in Collecting Statenlsland Relics w· as Track Star Union Graduate Is Instrumen- tal in Preserving Histor- ically Valuable Items Loring Me>Millen, '28, former track luminary at Union College, has turned his attention from the cinder path to the search for the antiques of early Arne I ican culture. He is now director of the commun- ity museum building on Staten Is- land which he was instrumental in founding. It itl an organization beHeved to be unique in its pur- pose-the preservation of the relics picturing the past of Staten Island, a past which differs vastly from the eady civilization of the main- land a few miles distant. The project, which has received much favorable att!'ntion in the past few months. is the result of work done by a small group of E'ngineers in their spare time. Mr. McMillen first became interested in the project in 1930 when hE' noted the large number of historically in- teresting buildings being torn down on the island. With the support of the Staten Island Historical So- ciety he and his companions have gathered together a vatlt variety of objects representing all sides of the life of all the classes on the island. In 1933 they received permission to restore the old county clerk's office, at Richmond, for use atl a \museum building.\ Mr. McMillen was on the track and cross-country teams for four years at Union College, running in the mile, half-mile, and in the re- lays. He was a member of the strong track and cross-count1y teams from 1925 to 1928 which com- piled an enviable record in inter- collegiate competition. He was a consistent winner and a star on a· team noted particula!ly for its mid- dle distance and distance men. He was the running mate of the im- mortal Irving Totten, stellar per- former in the dsitance runs with: whom McMillen teamed up in the relays. They formed a powerful combination, consistently high in the big metropolitan meets. As a pair their fame spread as the \Twin Runners,\ being featured under this name in one of Ripley's \Believe It or Not\ cartoons be- cause they tied for winning honors m a dozen dual cross~country meets. 0 All-College Dance Draws More Than Two Hundred (Continued from Page 1) toga; Lois Clark of Westport, Conn.; Peggy Tredick of Schenec- tady; Dorothy Kleinknecht of Trenton, N. J. Guests of the Kappa Nu frater- nity are: Dorothy Goldberg of Skidm01·e; Rose Simon of Russell Sage; Sadie Rippsoff of Brooklyn; Jane O'Dare of New York; Ruth Berker of White Plains; Carole Simons of Troy; Lucille Mahoney of New York; Helen Both of Bur- lington, Vt. Guests of the Beta Theta Pi fra- ternity are: Shirley Fleck of Holy- olte; Elsie Wurdge of Brown; Jean Rt>ld of Skidmore; Louise Smith of Skidmore; Patricia Krause of Greenbrier. Boset '38, Talks On W al· Vilmar K. Bose, '38, remarlted in his chapel speech Tuesday that the current international quiet is looked upon with suspicion and emphasized the fact that fear of war is condusive to war itself. \It culminates in war psychology ... The love of combat and righteous indignation often lead to misdi- rected idealism, which is a means for profiteers to get started.\ MAKE YOUR MEETING PLACE AT REUTER'S BOWLING ACADEMY 148 Clinton St. ALL LA TEST NEW and USED RECORDS Also Automatic Pho,nographs For Rent By Day or Week Columbia Novelty Co. 406 Smith St. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1938 = As They Were in '28 When Totten :md M:~llen were called by Ripley \The Running 'I'wlns\ in 1927 they were Imming up the cinder, the indoo1• !lild out- doo.- boal.'ds for Old 1Jrr.ion. Above is a typical scene of the two in I!Alti.,n, Totten is handing t;he baton to Mcl\lillen, anchor man on the rela.y during one of the \'\'io.ter meets. Note Lafayette man hitcb.lng his Jlan\ts and waiting fo1• his 11artner, still out of sight. \Beale Street Blues\-Dorsey \I Can't Get Started\-Berrigan \Bei Mir Bist Du Schon\-Goodman ·on sale at CASSEDY'S 460 STATE ST. GUERR.A PHARMACY DRT:G:;;, PR.ERCRIPTIONS, SUNDRIES WE SERVg :SA111DWICIIES AND LIGHT LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 29c flll-0 Union St. cor. Barre-t:! Phone 2-9419 GAI.ETT E PRESS Printing Good Frie11ds ... Good Cheer • • And when the \All- College Dance 11 is over~ y<>u'll find Tony, as always. re.:~dy to serve you ... UNION style. UNION INN 5,17 UNION ST. \The Popular Satur-dily Night Meeting ,Place of Union Men\ CALENDAR Lambda 0111 ~ Psi U'll~iloll Al!lha (32) (28) Saturday Thomas 2 0 4 D'chscherer :l 1 7 . O'Brien 8 0 16 Underwood :l 0 6' 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Williamson 2 1 5/Hawkes 2 2 6 Leonard Elisenbud. ·. Pa:1-ry 0 0 0 Heque'oUl'g 1 1 3 9:00 p. m.-All-College Dance. ·Adams 0 I 1./ King·sbury Q u 1 , Riley •0 0 0 Sunday Ha'erstrom 3 0 61 11:00 a. m. - Sunday Chapel, Gottschalk~ ~ _o/ Rev. Chm•les R. Brown, D.D. 1'5 2 3~1 9 5 2!1 4:00 p. m.~-Organ Recital, Dr. *' * \ Tidmarsh. Delta TJilsilon I 'Fbettt Delt~t Chi (19) i (14) Mondlty Fink 0 o 0\Hutchln~ 3 . 3 !I •J?rockmyer 4 o ~ Garnett 1 1 3 ·1:30 ,p. m.-Public Spakilig : ~lara o o 0\.Malltan o 0 0 Class, Old Chapel. Bm,tlett 5 0 10 Case 0 2 2 8:00 p. m.-Faculty Discussion ·Furman 0 o Oj Carroll 0 0 0 Group, Hale House. Keers o 1 l Denzler o 0 0 Senn o o 01 Tuesday Corby 0 0 Ul ---1 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, 9 1 191 4 6 14 Mr. John O'Brien of Cluett- * * ~ Peabody. :'\orth ·College forfeited to l11e Nm- ~~~~;;~;;;;;;;;~;;~~· ~tr=a=J~=··=F=e=b~r~ua=r=y=· =!=·====~========, 'lt==IN_. ;;;T-RA=M;;:U:;;;;;R:;;;;A=L;;;:S==!JII·. Select ~~~r rtn:'~:l Paper ,_ ARTISt SUPPLIES Basketball 21 The second r0und of basketball 21 must be completed on or bef<we Wednesday, Feb. 9. Opponents must ar1ange their own matches 11hich may be played any time be- tween 10::30 a. m. and 1:30 p. m. each day. IU~I(ETB.H.L RE,;I'I.TS: Pili Hamum D~lta I'll! DPitll tlH) (17) Lynn 0 II Ollmrie 1 0 2 Gordon \ Ill .Parker I (} 2 ~lacl\enzle II 111/Hurl<e I 1 :l Burwell ()· ~ \\'a!Lri!lge 1 (} 2 Lest'ohier II IIIJ'ohnsOil ~ II .) Schratll? ., u .J CARLSON\S 515 STATE ST. For Houso Linen Service PHONE 4-3166 AMERICAN COAT, ·APRON & LAUNDRY: COMPANY 1030 Barrett St. MILK SORICH YOU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Produced Under Strict La:bovatory Control 'For Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. Sanct~ .. o 3\ lfilll·kle u 4 ---l [I u 1:-.: h 117 * * • Beta •rluta Pi i J{n.pllU Alpha tl2l I (7) Geer \ 1 11\Nntt n 2 2 :\Iel'l'itllHll 6 1 13 Clay 1 0 0 FOR THE CONVENIENCE AND ACCOMMODATION OF THE GUESTS OF THE ALL-COLLEGE DANCE Murray 1 0 21 1 I!.ic•harc1s 0 0 0 Shaw ., u {IHolmeB 1 2 1laxwell 6 0 ll HALE HOUSE 0 12\Henyan C'happE'Il 0 ll 0 Morris 0 1 ---1 20 \ 121 2 3 7 • * • l{appa l:ll~ma Hontl1 College (28) (13) Hanson !\ 0 JOiAnnese 0 0 0 WILL BE OPEN FROM 10:30 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. Callaghan 1 II ~.Gnlder 7\Hadley 0 0 U, ~'lor1:ison 3 1 .Q 0 0 DINING SERVICE A-LA-CARTE Kopf 2 II 4.JoJnzer 3 3 9 Clark I 0 2 0 4 Stillman 1 1 2jFiester :l Semenoff 0 0 0 • • i3 2 ;sj 5 3 13 tie Stakess~soo a Week on ftis Knowledge of Tobacco ••• Robert W. Barnes -Independent Buyer- ene of many tobacco ex· perfs who smoke Luckies ••1 OFTEN invest $2500 a week in tobacco-$2500 of my own hard-earned cash,\ says Mr. Barnes. \So you can see that the only way I've stayed in busi- ness 10 years is to know tobacco. ., \Now I know Lucky Strike to· bacco and it's top-grade. That's why I've smoked Luckies for eight years now. \Lots of other independent buyers, auctioneers, and ware- housemen I know smoke Luckies for the same reason.\ Yes, sworn records show that, among independent tobacco ex· perts like Mr. Barnes, Luckies have over twice as many exdu· sive smokers as have all the other cigarettes combined. ··:: Sworn f~,(Jf(ls ShotP 1),111-·· WITH MEN WIIO KNOW TOBACCO BEST ·IT'S ;LUCKIES 2 TO 1 HAVE YOU HEARD \THE CHANT OF THE TOBACCO AUCTIONEER\ ON THE RADIO? When you do, remember that 'Luckies use th& finest tobacco. And also that the \Toasting \'\\\''\\'\\\\'\\\'....... Process removes certain harsh .irritants found In i&;t::!:'l:~:;~;•$;{i;;;:;;~~=~~;~'l;::;s:~l!l~:!;';!;~;f.:>:lij~:;:;,];m'Jil§;~~m;~?i~i\i:l0iii:0~0imi:~ii~i~~tJl· . s!! tobacco. 5o L11ckie5 aro kind to your tliroat • l Z! v N be D1 fo ev In fr< na sei hii \S an fif vo w ot g~ \·U C< D • a . ta h< ti: fr 01 ol ti tt w Ir '3 el aJ c OJ T N :c a ( ~ t: li t u c c I

NDRY! A jontrol vice 21 Corp. OF A.M. OF THE RADIO? use th& found In· tllroat. • Ter1·ace Council Planning Block .\'U\ Dinner Z Sit • l • tS H udson-DeLange To Play At Interfraternity Dance Vol. LXI., No, 31 UNfON COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS First/n.terfrate·rnityDa,nce .Terrac.e Council v. . u: d . Placed in Charge r.eaturesi.1.U · son-DeLa.nge Of Block u Dinner Noted Song Writers Selected by Interfraternity,: Hono1·ary Ot·ganization Seel{s Council to Play Here on March 18 To Make Annual Banquet In the Alumni Gymnasium More Elaborate An innovation in In:terfratemity week-end celebrations will Tentative Speakers Listed be inaugurated this year on Friday, March 18. The Hudson- DeLange orchestra has been secured to provide the music ... Feele1· List\ Includes Sport for an All-Fraternity Ball, and this precedent-breaking social Luminaries F1·om event is the :result of the work done by the newly er·ganized, Many Fields Interfraternity C()uncil. Will Hudson and Eddie DeLange,i'•--------------- Plans for the annual Block \U\ dinner to be held in the Alumni Gymnasium on March 30 are being rapidly formulated according to William Hawkes '38, chairman of the dinner. Definite arrangements were to be started next week after the Terrace Council had discussed plans with George Daley, '92, who was to have visited the campus in his capacity of honorary fellow in sports this week-end. from whom the band takes its C }} Gl CJ b name, have distinguished them-• . 0 ·. ege ee u • selves as writers of recent song- On C 0 n c e ,r t Tour·. hits; among which there are:' ••Sophisticated Swing,\ \Moonglow and \Organ-Grinder Swing.\ The orchestra is composed of' fifteen musicians and a female vocalist. It has played at Colgate·, Williams, Skidmol!e, Vet·mont, and, Garnet Goblins Will Support Union Singers Tmtight other well-known colleges. Nott Chairman The dance will be held in the: gymnasium and the booths will be \unique and original\ according to Committee Chairman John Nott. Dancing will be from l\l p. m. to 3' a. m. This grandiose event will take the place of the separate house dances usually held at thls time of the year, but the individual fraternities will hold their dances on the following night. Tickets will be on sale at the end of this week, and they will be dis- u ibuted through the members <>f the Interftaternity ·Council. 'Ta:x will be about $3.00, The committee in charge of th.e Interfraternity ball is: John Nott '38, Kappa Alpha, chairman; Rob- ert Shepard '38, Alpha Delta Ph.i, and Clayton Adarns '39, Lambda Chi Alpha, supervising the .printing of ticket.s and programs; Rolland Twining, '39, Beta Theta Pi, an.d Marston Ames, '39, Phi Gamma Delta, taking care of the decor- ations. ---o--- Council Will Discuss Senior Insurance Plan The senior class may continue the policy started last year by estab- lishing a class endowment fund for the college to be raised by individ- ual life insurance policies with the college as partial beneficiary, ac· cording to President Winterton 1J. Day. The proposed plan for this year's fund, to be presented at the meet- ing of the Student Council tomor- row night, provides for $1000 en- dowment policies to be purchased by outgoing seniozs, maturing in fifteen years. The annual premiums az·e ex- pected to amount to between $15-00 &.nd $20.00 for the average man. When the .policy becomes payable at the end of a fifteen year period the college will receive $100, the remainder, more than $900 on ma- turity, going to the policy-holder. At Chatham Recital In an effort to promote interest and give the dinner a more impor- tant place in student life, the Ter- The Glee Club will present the race Council has been appointed to first in its series of concerts on take charge of the dinner. Previ- tour in New York State in the ously the Student Council had act- Chatham High School this evening ed in this capacity. under the auspices of the First Co- lumbia Teachers' Association. Dane- Seek Changes ing to the music of the Garnet Gob- At the last meeting of the Ter- lins will follow the concert. race Council, it was suggested that In the absence of Dr. Tidmarsh, several changes be initiated in the James Scott, '38, will dil'ect the proposed program. It was felt that heretofore too much emphasis had group, and Professor Warren C .. been placed. on the speaker. This Taylor will accompany the group year it is hoped that the dinner as faculty advisor. will be more representative. Plans Elmer Johnson, '38, bas also an- are being made to have .the Glee nounced Friday, March 11, as the · Club, the college band, and per- date for the ~econd joint conce·rt haps the play production class take with Skidmore College. This will be part. The programs will probably held in Chancellors Hall in Albany. be more elaborate and it is hoped The groups will be the guests of that the gymnasium can be decor- the Skidmore Alumni Club of AI- ated. bany. tv.rr. Daley in a recent letter com- mented on the dearth of student interest in the affair and suggested that alumni support be solicited if the students seemed unresponsive. The Schenectady County Alumni have already pledged their support and the Terrace Council is plan- ning a meeting with this body to discuss plans in the near future. New York Trip The high point of this year's con- cert tour will be the annual trek to. the Metropolitan District, where the club will have a special band play after their recital. The members of the club who will make the trip to Chatham are as follows: First tenors, Charles Berger, '38, soloist, Robett Shaw, '38, John Mitchell, \39 John Morrison, '39, Robert Simmons, '39, .Tohn Quinlan. \40 and R. Leonard Bull, '40. The second tenors are Elrnn· Johnson, '38, Ben Cohen, '38, Roland Twin- ning, '39, Everett Fuller. '39, ac- companist, \Valter Shaw, '40, Aus- tin White, '41, and John Gerzov, '41. The fit st basses are Kenneth ~treeter, '39, soloist, Philip Duchs- cherer, '39. accompanist, Charles Guiles, '40, who plays the chimes ·on seve I al numbers. Frank Notle. \39 Benjamin Rathbun, '39, Charles Sweet, '40, and Jack Danser, '41- The second basses are Bernard O:ender, '38, John Dayton, '39, Henry Clay, \39 Henry Walling, '39, George Schall, '40, Edmund Kelley, n, and Paul Best, '41. Sonya Henle A. Jist of proposed speakers for the dinner has been 1·eleased by Ha wl~:es. This list is only tentative and was subject to change after the proposed meeting with Mr. Daley. The following people are on the tentative list' Richard Vidmers, New York Herald Tribune sports columnist; John R. Tunis, noted sports commentator; Bill Tild~n. famous tennis player; Les Patrick, coach of the New York Rangeis; Dicit Harlow, head fogtball coach at Harvard; Glen Cunningham, premier miler; Lawson Robertson, track coach of the University of Pennsylvania; Gene Tunney, for- mer wmld heavyweight boxing champion; Babe Ruth, king of swat; and Sonya Henie, famous ice-skating star. Outing Dances Club Skies With Coeds in Moonlight; Over Weekend \Honorary Fellow\ College Responds To Paralysis Drive Fraternities, Faculty and Ad- ministrative Agents Do- nate Towards Fund Faoulty, staff members and fra- ternities of Union College contrib- uted a total of $32.25 for the estab· lishment of the National Founda- tion for Infantile Paralysi.s, It was announced last night by Milton M. Enzer, ln charge of the campus canvass for funds. Because the college was lhvited to participate in this drive for funds during the mid-year exami- nations, and after many of the faculty and staff had already had opportunity to contribute th.rough the valious \President's Ball par- ties held on January 29, accounts for the apparently small number of conbibutors, it was believed. Those who contributed fl)r the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis follow: G. Daley, '92, Noted S,ports Editor, Dies in New Yo.rk Passes Away at 12:28 A. M. at Parle East Hospital Of Streptacoecus Infection After Sudden Illness; Was To Be He1·e Friday George Daley '92, who was to have made his annual visit as honoial'y fellow <in athletic sports this w,€ekend died this 1mrning at 12:28 A. l\1. at the Park East Jl()spital in New Y erk from an intestinal st1·eptacoccus infection. Johnson Answers 'Cider Mill' Atta(k Sc .. res Idol; Contributions Should Benefit Campus Magazine, He Says Monday, Feb. 7--\We have no no- tion of starting a new magazine- as yet,\ ·declared Dr. Burges John- son, .professor of English today, in answer to chal'ges which appeared in \~rhe Cider Mill\ in the last is- sue of The Concordlensis. However, he told a reporter, if his call for manusct\ipts had any effect, he hoped it would benefit rather than. harm the Idol. At the same time he denied that he had refused to cooperate with the present Idol board. \Yes he said, \1 hope my class in .Advanced Composition will be able to get together some student contributions that will be interest- ing for others to read as well as for themselves. \It is disappointing to me that the Idol has not been more effec- tive on the campus, and let me say that the impression I have gained as to its ineffectiveness is due even more to what students have said than what I have felt. I:Ja,s Helped Idol The famous spo1ts editor of the New y.,rk Herald Tribune worked last Tuesday night, ·beca:rne ill Wednesday and was rushed to the hospital on Thm,sday. Last year he had a similar infection in the throat, but rece>vered. He cele- brated hi~ 68th birthday on Decem- ber 26. Since he first joined the New York Evening Post 40 years ago a.s a sportswriter and commentator, George Herbert Daley was a strong force in lifting the sports page to a high place ill journalism, and e~pec1ally in developing wide· pub- lic interest in amateur and more particularly college and school spotts. He was also a pioneer in ae:veloping interest in sports at women's colleges. Captain £lf Eleven George Daley was quarterback and captain of football while study- ing civil engineering at Union Col- lege. He was a member of Alpha Delta Phi. Alwa;rs interested in his college, he represented his class on the Uraduate Council and annually made at least two pilgrimmages to the campus, \covering\ at least one football game for the New York newspaper of vvh.ich he was sports editor. !n his ··spor·ts Talk\ column he frequently illustrated IHJints with incidents from \my own col- lege, Union . . .\ In his column George Daley al- ways held up the ideal of fair play, on and off the athletic field.. be was alway~ in demand as a speaker at colleges and ,prep schools. Faculty and Administrative staff: Dr. Ernst J. Berg, Dr. Harrison C. Coffin, Milton M. Enzer, Dr. Dixon Ryan 'Fox, Dean Charles F. F. Garis, Dr. Burges Johnson, Profes- sor Chrrles T. Male, Dr. James W. Mavor, D1·. Charles N. Waldron, D. Richard Weeks, and Ernest A.. Win- zenburgev. Fraternities: Kappa Nu, Kappa Sigma, and Phi ;\igffia Della. \When I came here to take charge of a class in .Advanced Com- position, an editor of the Idol asked for cooperation and I gave him the freedom of my office and the right to tead any manuscripts written by any of my students. That pleasant relation has ceased only because the Idol stopped asking for it. \'You want to know what all this is about,\ (referring to the ad- veztlsement in The Concordiensis). \It only means that I want to stim- ulate my own class writers, by let- ting them see some of thel1· own stuff In print. When 1t looked as though they might not produce a wide enough variety, I invited other student~ outside the class to con- tl ibute in the hope that if the Idol board alone did not succeed In stir- ring up a lot of campus poets and stmy writers, two different stimu- lating influences might produce a little rnore. His sports pages were generally written by a group of ex.per·ts, most of them college graduates, but he demanded that their writi!Lg be characterized b~ straightforward accurate reporting, salt and pep- pered with imagination and en- thusiasm. First the reader must \know the score and how it. was made, then he wants to share in some of the more interesting events which led up to the final result,\ he used to say. Joins New York Fost His love of sports prompted him to give up the practice of civil en- gineering to join the Ne~ York l:'ost as sports. writer in 1897, one of the first ce>llege graduates to choose sportswriting, getting his training under the ablest sports editor of his time, Charles P. Saw- yer. In 1900 Mr. Daley became sport\ editor of New York Tribune and here developed a nati.onal fol- lowing with his column \Sports Talk.\ Sixteen ;years later he shift- ed to the New Yorlt World as sports editor and when the paper was merged v;ith the Telegram to become the New Yorlt World Tele- gram (February 28, 1931) he served the latter paper. But six months later he was called to the New Administrative assistants: Miss Lillian .Applegarth( and also he1 parents), Miss Anne O'N. Beattie, Mrs. Dorothy Chadbourne, Miss Helen E. Deines, Mrs. Dilllngham Jenkins, Mrs. Hilda Johnson, Mrs. Viola Patterson, Mrs. Charlotte Rapelje, Miss Dorothy Schrader, Mrs; Hannah Taylor, Miss Frances Travis, Miss Eleanor Turner, Mrs. Pearl Webster, and Mrs. Maty Wil- liams. \If this appeal, and this amusing little prize offer, does have any ef- fect, I should think that the Idol would profit by it more than any- one else-unless it is so dead that it cannot be killed any deader.\ (Continued on Page 4) Should a policy-holder die before his polcy matured, the college will receive $100 and his beneficiaries· rhe rest. Two ·national insurance· cr.mpanies have agreed to cooperate in the plan. Union College :vas host ~t the an- superb and this supplied an ideal nual Intercolleg~ate Outmg Club setting for skiing. Association meetn~g the past week- The high point of the weekend end to representatives of 13 colleges: was Saturday evening which Wa£. at tl,e Outing Clu~'s \Big Shanty\: e:pent \).t the \Log :House\. An ex~el­ at North Creek. S1xty-seV;en. at·dent. lent dinner was followed by a smg skiers answered the mv1t~tion.s! al'ound the massive garnet fire- which were ser1t to twenty colleges-: place. Later in the evening, the fur- Delegates f1om Dartmouth, M. I. T.,: niture was cleared from the floor Hobart, Haverfm d, 'Smith, Vas~ar ', and several squares were organized Cnrnell. Yale, R. P. I., and Umon, for dancing. Virginia Reel's, Port- arrived early Friday. . la11d Fancies',. sho-fly's, and round Bmwn Speaks On Parable Of Prodigal Son in Chapel Pointing out the existence of a .serious moral defect in the tem- perment of the elder brother in the ancient parable of the ?todigal Son, Dr·. Charles R. Brown, dean- emeritus of the Yale Divinity School, spoke in the weekly Sun- day chapel service yesterday. Students Enthusiastic Over Success Of Second Union All- College Dance The idea of such a class endow- ment fund was presented to the cone ge last year, but to date little has been accomplished. Only five men agreed to take policies in 1937. However, President Day hopes that the class of '38 will improve this: record. Similar endowment plans are meeting with success ln other col- leges. Outgoing classes at Williams an regularly providing for sub- etantial gifts to their alma mater at the end of .twenty-flille years. The: class of 1914, the first class M the in.stitution to employ an end<>w- ment policy plan, expects to make a gift of $2(},000 to Williams 1uxt year. Advocates of the plan here are studying its varying success at e>ther schools. Inasmuch as nearly all college graduates will sooner or later take out life insurance and since the class endowment plan en- ables them to provide a gift of as much as $15,000 for the college at the same time, it Is hoped that a large number of seniors will take out policies. .After supper was served Ill the 1 \ances lasted until the eai·ly morn- outing club cabin, th~, l.arge ope~ ing. slope in front of the B1g Sh'l-nty About 11 o'clock Otto Schneibs, became the center f'?r all ski en- famous Olympic ski instructor, put. thusiasts The flood lights were not in an appearance and added much turned off until 12:30 and . ev~n color to the festivities. otto was after that a few die-ll:;lrds contmued very !mp1essed by the American to ski aided by the hghl '?f a new oquare dances which he had never moon and the starry sk1es. The seen before. He compared them to group was accommodated in two the folk dances which are so popu- additional cabins rented fOl' the lar in Europe. weekend, while a few of the less for- By Sunday morning the near per• lunate were forced to spend the feet skiing of Saturday was com- night in a nearby hay loft. pletely ruined by a hard rain. The Saturday mornli1g the grou~ several inches of powder snow had started off to the . Gore. Mt. S~l turned into ankle deep slush, and trails. The dismal ram which fel11n only three of the more aident Union Schenectady was snow at. North men attempted to ski in the down- Creek and provided the tralis with pour. By noon, most of the group six Inches of powder snow. The had begun their trek back to civil- view from the top of Gore Mt. was ization and their studies. ''The iron rule of justice, giving every man .I:J.is just deserts, has not, commended itself on the whole,\ Dean Brown said. \The Golden Rule has shown much better re- sults.\ The old€1' brother in the parable was an ideal moral person; but de- spite ·his good acts, be had a.I\ ugly temper, Dean Brown commented. In his un.forg.iveness of his brother he showed a harsh unyielding spirit. The sour, crabbed attitude toward those who have done wrong, as displayed by the eld<!r brother, only serves to push sin- nei's further away .. \The ugly temper stands In the way of the advance of Christ's kingdom,\ said Dean Brown. It leads. people to stand aloof. They will not attend church, participate in philanthropies, or work for bet- ter government, Due to the financial and' soclat--- -·-------------- success of the All·College dance Sam Hammerstrom '40-\I think held in the .Alumni Gymnasium :':iat- the dances should .be coht.lh.ued as urday night, Chairman David L. they are an inexpensive way of get- Yunich, '39, intimated today that ting the college together;\ '\thei·e would be another AJlcCollege Paul Nara •41--\I thought the .1ffair between the Interfraternity dance was ver:y good and the or- and Prom week-ends and that it chestra excellent.\ reemed very Jiltely that this custom would be continlJ,ed Into next year.\ Bob Imrie '38'--\In m;r opinion, Jack Lanny and his· eleven piece the dance was darn good. T-he dec- c-rchestra, accompanied by three orations could have been nicer if vocalists furnished the music for there had been more flags, but what this second All-College dance. The they had were very nice. The music gymnasium was dec(}rated with the was much bEtter than In the pre- flags of 41 nations, which were.· vious All-College event. It could suspended' from the ceiling. Fra- have been better but its wa.sn't at ternlty banners dec()rated the bal- all bad.\ c.ony rail. William Lewis '41~\'I'he dance \The Concordien·sls\ conducted a was very very good and the girls survey of student opinion concern- were very p~etty.\ ihg the affair and the opinions fol- Richard Henyan '41-\Tl:le All- low: College ball was good, but there Bill Thomas '39-'~SweU da.nce, might have been more people there. ve1·y nice orchestra and a very nice The decorations and orchetra were crowd.\ very impressive.\

Page Two ~llllfll. FouNDED 1877 \A Catua P~trsa Parole Assai\ 1937 Member 1938 ~sodaled CoUe6iate Press Dtatnbu tor of Cnllee>iafe Die)est REPRE.:>t.NTEO FOR NATIONAL AOV!;.RTISING dY Natioi11al Advertising Service, Inc. Co/leg(! Pttbfislters Re~resontalive 420 MADISO\' AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CII!CAGO - BosrON • LOB ANGELES • 5Afl FRANCISCO 'rhe official newspaper of the students of Union College. Published Tuesday and Fridays through- aut the college year, except d urlng Christmas and SIJring receti:,t'::i, Publication Ofllce, The Gazette Press, 334 State St .. Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-4141 Entere<l at tlte Sc.henectady Post Office ns Second Class Mall lllatter ~ubscription price Five cents a copy; $3.UO a rear ; delivered anywhere in the United States. Editorial Hooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Sdtenectatl'-!._ 4-0133. Senior Board Hyman A. Enzer, .•.......•..•. Editor-ln-Cl!lef 11 S. S. Suuth College-6-9728 Robert H. Ferguson .......... Managing Edit<>r P'i Upsilon House-4-8710 Julius J. Bundgus ................ News Editor 9 S. S. South College-6-9728 Henry D. Hartmann .......... Feature Edito1· 7 o. G. IJ.--6-~620 Carl n.. Trahman ..•............. Sports Editot· !Cappa Sigma Hou•e-4-g326 ,Jolm H. Gilmour ............ Business Manager Delta Upsilon House-1-7922 Marvin M. Miller .. Associale Business Manager Kappa :\u-4-7331 Alfred R. Seigle ........... Circulation Manager Kappa :\u-4-7331 Junior Board ASSVC[ATE J:;U!TOHS 1-'rederick W. HeQuembourg H. Wyman Httchcudi Robert A. Saaf Jerome Smith Euwartl c. Reta,tylt Hubert C. Walter, Jr, Issue Editot· Fl'edexick W. Hequembourg THE CONCORDIENSii:S, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 193.8 THEATRE is what he himself has created from his own 'I 11· mind and body, it is impossible to live except .• · J ·u. 5 T 1.· N J .·E ·5 l . , b d 1 d' If . The much-heralded Juniot· League Y e·tU · mg yourse . ' Follies of 1938 has made its appear- ! t is this particular kind of tenet thai 11 :;. b======;;;;;;;;;;=================;;;;;;ll ance and gone, leaving a distinctly D :B 1' ·pleasing memory. \Amateur night ean , rown was hitting· at when he said 'th th 400\ t th E'l Th t Hello, everybody. It seems our ought to be pal;lclled . • . Scoop, WI· e a. e r e ea re; , \they ·refuse to come in and play the game a,bsence frorn tile campus •last 8CO()p-John Gilmour, business with several of Union's bright k lh f 't f f th' '11 'ddl young lads in stellar roles, reve~ed ; L·umors. One was to the effect . aisle it in June immediately after dozens of good talent in Schenec- ' with you.\ . wee waB e cause o qlll e a ew manager o •lS' rag, W1 · m1 · e- • It may be admitted that all our life is a: that we wel'e dead. This was pt•ob- graduation ... (won't be long now, tady. , ably an exam.ple of the wish giving John--ahem) . . . sOllletime we '£:he show was beautifully cos- myth, that our democracy is meaningless: birth to the rumor. Or something. must write a colum,n on \Union's tumed .and deverly mounted. The and that our idealis·m self-sacrifice altruisn. 1 Well,, anyway we're. sorry to dis~ Cafe Society\. Soinething on the gowns would have done justice to a . ' ' . i appomt you a;ll, ·but rllness was the ·order of Luci1,1s Beebe, y'know. Broadway show. The ·dancing was and honesty are bemg wast€d on a fLgment: c~use of OUl' a!Jsence. We have Whoops, m'deat·. ' .. Louie Wit- a tribute to the director'. The \In~ ' 1 t 1 d th' 1 h · f 11 · t th d ·genues\-the youmrer Schenectady· · of the mysterious imagiHation. But as Will. comp e e Y recovere ' we m t. am 1 s aw u Y qute ese ays, social element~were best of the , J h •'tt d h UNCLE WILLY'S QUESTION is-n't he. · · · lJncle Will's nomin- show's several choruses. ames as Wll · en an as several ot er de- . BOX . . . ga·n\' of fresh.men f·t·om athm for Perfect P1·om band- ..,. s K A •• 1 rt i 1 · The jokes were old and forced but fenders of the purposefulness of human ex- wh.al; house got in quite a brawl ammy aye · ' · ~e ce · anY ts , the ·dancing and the enthusiasm . . , Fl'iday night over on Van Vranken a swell guy. At least those chorus th . t th k b t 1stence have advocated, Man has a desire to . .Avenue ... -what did Paffrath say girls he drove do-wn to New Haven m~~~li~ 0 00 ~P:~~atecL I~e {a~~:~~ believe in somethino· and to live for some- to one of the librarians ·· · · is It think so · · · Van Ladd certainly latter was one of the most enjoy- . . . \'. true that Ed O'Connell, Albany ·does it up riglit. Up at Skidmore able features of the show-no one thiiH!'. Is that artifiCial? Is that a real or an political lead.er, is !:Wing to give to Monday, Wednesday, Friday and ~ h -ft f thl t' Saturday nights .... Good Gang; seemed to mind if they were out' of imao-ined feelino·\l Is it in.born or is it im- t e college a ra 0 .a e tc North college crow·d ... Hudscm- ::,tep or missed a cue. Just l\lts of \\ <=> • scholarships . . . who .m hell fun. posed upon us by enviromnent? bl'Ought Lotta Largesse of Sauket- Delange is doing plenty of colleg·e In a cast so lat,ge individual stars R I . · 1 •t t Inn-on-the-Hudson to the AU-Col- work these days. Two jobs they' e 1g1011 laS 1 s S rong appeal because we · lege dance . . . and who .brought have coming up are Skidmore and are hard to pick out. However, just C Colgate. And I understand the In- at random it seems that orchids want to and seemingly must believe in some- Sadie Ripsoff .. , who told. harlie terfraternity dallce committee, should go to Sue Williamson for her . . Waldron to announce m the song ''CQ.Smopolitan Lady\ and her thmg. Ltfe has continued only because the. Alumni Man thly the ·coming mar- .under Jack No!t, are trying to get , · f G G , 37 t L tt' them for our IJr<Jposed dance. . . . sewing-up her fingers act. And pos- intelli(J'ent leadiho· the masses have beell' rtage 0 uy . _raves, ' 0 0 le Vaudeville fan-Prof. Bmkett. ies also to Dick Da.yjs for the e. ' \' ' . Schmaltz ... 1t turned out to be \Treasu.rer's Report\ and similar willing to admit that they were Jiving arti- a gag ... is :Bill Bennett crackin' Other professms .please eopy! • tomfoolery. f . 'al't' . d h b de>wll ... what well lmown athlete Sign in fraternity house: lCl 1 leS an myt S Ut nevertheless took went on a 11 after-exam bender Ab~olutely no liquor allowed in eni~; ~~~a~~~wau!e~~:~e~:dt~~ part in the routine of living. which lasted for three days and Do ~::~hrow \ottles out of W·t'n- actors. Which is saying a lot. In . . . which brought him all the way to \' f t th f p t ' ld To brmg the problem to Imned1ate atten·. Pht'ladelph 1 'a. dow. _ac e 111anager 0 roc or s wou have done well to see the show. tion let us ask what is the sense in going to HASH AND MORE HASH ... college. The answer comes ·back, to gain new d'ja see the reviews that \No Mme Peace\ got when the W. P. A, pre- interests and to be able to appreciate more. sented it in N~w York last week. thinos Wh t f ? T · 1· Wh 1 •.. The critics to a man thought ,,; · a or· 0 enJOY our 1ves. Y • the play itself was putrid, All of etc. There is no answer-except that we do which mean.s you shouldn't blame · t th t h b 'l t f d\ the Mountebanks too much, except ex1s , a we ave UI t up a se 0 tra 1- they should never have selected it tions and customs which we hope will be in the first place .... this guy Keough (Chi Psi) does all right carried on. We don't know why. for himself. That Manhattanville Perhaps life isn't a meaningless dream or habe was all riigilt ..• and the ac- cordionists are still with us. Latest of unconscious activity, but a great and mar- reports are to the effect that 1 1 D B • d h · Ha1:diman and Clay have been ve ous Pan. r. rown S wor s · ave Impor- most successfu.l in the field of, 'er, tant meaning if it is the latter. conquest, shall we say ... Johnnie March: \One plus one plus one vVe are :playing a game, no matte1· what equals one.\ Ja!te Amazon: \Never the purpose. If it is aimless life we are Jiv- make any :money that way\ ... nice plug in last week's Times on ing, we have established foundations upon the Play-Production course and its h · h t r If ·t · 1 d l'f doing plays in connection with w IC · o 1ve. 1 lS a p anne I e we are other courses ... Phillips, Psi u THINGS WE DIDN'T KNOW \'=~===========::1 TILL NOW .... Johnnie March ·is 1'1 I a member of neua Kappa Epsilon · LIBRARY SMOKESTACK ... so is Burges Johnson ... in- . · cidentally, there on.ce was a \Deke\. . house at Union •.• Barney Baruch was not alone when he visited .Americans have complained bit- Schenectady that last time. . . , terly that English journalists like . . . Prof. Burkett is a Kappa Slg to come over here, stay two weeks ... ditto Prof. O'Rourke ... Prexy at the Algonquin, and then write a Fox used to be traveling secretary dissertation on life in the United for his fraternity •.. Prof, Larra- .States. Similarly, the English have bee once studied to be a minister complained that Americans walk ... Librarian Webb is a Lambda brashly over their tight little Island Chi ... the Worden Bar gives away and then proceed to make the eagle free drinks to steady customers scream more than ever. from two to five on Xmas day or' The literature on the subject is each year . . . wby doesn't some- va.st,-not all of it querulous by any body tell me thEse things . . . the means. Emerson, Cooper, Haw- greatest problem facing the Skid.- th01•en, Lowell on the one band, and more authorities is the Peeping- Mrs. Trollope, Matthew Arnold, Toms that bother the girls who Oscar Wilde, Arnold Bennett on the neglect to pull down their window other, have made their salient ob- shades. servatlons. Now co:mes Harold Ni- Nighty, night, Robert Saaf Assistants George Peck Lawrence Pelletier John Lewis but continuing it. But in either case we have freshman almost lost his coat at th l f th · · l the Worden. one night awhile ago. e roe o e partiCipator top ay. We can- That check girl, who is definitely Uncle Willy. colson, who in his Small Talk writes with grace and wit upon the im- pressions of an Englishman con- fronted with America. For lucid and ironic prose Nicolson is the man on whom the mantle of Strachey falls most becomingly. Sma.ll Talk, it should be added, does not deal with America alone. not remain aloof with disinterest or with dis- in the low-gra.de intelligence class, was responsible. Be careful ... dain from the life that g-oes on around us. well, see wb.ere Funston, local We are part of it and subj.ect to it. We are chief of police, has been given the CAgJNDAR Wednesday PAYMENT OFTUITION .AND REPEATED COURSE FEE, ALL CLASSES, COMPTROL- LER'S OFFICE, 9 to 11:30; 1:00 to 4:30. Tuesday, February 8, 1938 go.by. The town is supposed to participators and of necessity must eithel' blossom forth now. Wide open. Of \MY OWN COLLEGE, UNION\ We expected to see George Daley this week-end and hear him say \hello there, young feller,\ but that was early yestel'day afternoon. continue our myths and plans or perish. course, this change will not affect Union. No, not much ... under- stand Charlie Coburn, head of the Mohawk Dram.a Festival, is going to try to do away with the Insti- 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly, Robert H. &i.Jnmons, '39. In his Christopher Mal'lowe John Bakeless demonstrates that a seventeen year job of literary re- search can be as exciting, if not as dangerous, as tracking a felon. Here you have, for the first time, a com- plete account of all that is known of a man whose gentus flashed superb- ly while Shakespeare was still an apprentice, 1:00 p. m.-Radio Club Meet- ing, Electrical \Laboratory. Daley pr{)bably would have given us one of his famous stories if he knew what we were going to say. SOCIAL EVENTS The Interfraternity Council is to be con- gratulated for its ambitions and accomplish- ments this year. Although its progmm is still in the idealistic stage, the announce- tute of the Theatre <the academic pa1t of the Festival) this summer. In other words the \students\ will pay money to play bit parts in the Festival shows; there will be no class-room work. And if the offi- cers and trustees of the college let Coburn ge-t away with this they Tb:ursdlty PAYMENT OF TUITION AND REPEATED COURSE FEE, 9 to 11:30; 1.00 to 4:00. 10:00 a. m.- Daily Assembly, Speaker, M:r. Boyd W. Bul- lock, General Electric Com- pany. !11 After the Genteel Tradition lVIalcolm Cowley edits a group of criti.clsms by younger writers on (Continued on Page 4) \Now I have my own system,\ he used to . ment last night that the annual Interfrater- say 111 the pressbox at football g-ames, and 't W 1 E d 111 h 18 ld b f . m y ee c- n on ~· arc wou e ea- he'd take out two sheets of brown '.Vrappmg • . . t k h . t t· t' 11 h d th tured by an all-f1atern1ty dance m the gym- paper o eep Is s a Is ICS on. e a e . 'th H d D 1 · ld h d , 1 f h nasmm w1 u son- e ange, g1ves us o met o 1ea gxace o t e newspaper man h h f ffi · t c ·1 h d 'd h' • b 'th t t t t' muc ope or an e cten ounci • W 0 l IS J 0 Wl OU OS en a IOn. · . H d t all II h . d d t The blossommg of soctal events on the e use o c a 1s un ergra ua e U . . -\ • d '~b ., d ld ]., • t mon College campus this year may be .1nen s oy an no one cou ever OouJ ec t k · d' t' f . t .• • • t th 1 II t . th h a en as an m Ica Ion o Ie urnmg plospm·- o e genera appe a wn even oug many • . · · · · ' . · 1ty or returnmg awareness of the double ad- oftheseboyswerelong-grownmtomanhood. d t t th 11 d tl · d_.-_.d-···1 H d t U · C II th a van ages o e co ege an 1e 111 LVI ua e was ear o mon o ege more an d · f · · · t t' t 11 f h' . groups concerne m unctwmng as a co- JUS sen Imen a y, or 18 se~VIces as an operative group. We are sure that the at- alumnus have been very practical. And he t t' d 1 t s t d · 1 t ld • 1 . rae IVe a nee as a ur ay mg 1 cou w1l be remembered for hiS famous .phrase h b 'bl f · 1 •'at my own 'College, Union .•. \ never ave een possi e ·or a smg e grotip Yes, he will be remembered. THE PARTICIPATOR Sunday chapel services this week-end were more than productive of a good wholesome feeling. Dean-Emeritus Charles R. Brown drew a fine analogy between the unforgiving brother of The Prodigal Son and the straight- laced individuals who justify their «11gly tempers\ on the iron rule of justice. Probably the most significant remark Dr. Brown made was: \The ugly temper stands in the way of church, philantlnopies, Ol' bet- ter g·ovemment. It leads people to stand aloof. They refuse to come in and play the game with the rest of you.\ Dr. Brown's terms covered a specific cate- gory of human beings, but we are sure that he would have ineluded the cynical, the dis- interested, the scoffer, who either find life a set of rigid xules or a chaotic mess. A pop- ular p-hilosophy of the present day advocates that since knowledge is non-existent and since everything that man thinks he knows on the campus at such minimum cost. Nor could Hudson-DeLange be secured without. similar eooperation which results in cutting of expenses all around. The Interfraternity Couneil can success- fully manage its social affairs and it has it within its pow€r to carry many other con- structive policies. It's a fine start. SELF-CRITICISM When noise and dust in the library become subject fol' complaint by students we see a healthy tl'end towards self-criticism. The li- brary undoubtedly is not to blame for the noise, for, as Helmer Webb points out, his staff is safely encased behind \cork·padded cells..\ We agree heartily with the Hbrary;s non-interference program and a,ssume, from the objections raised by our anonymous critic, that the task of keeping the l1brary quiet is up to every student who makes use of it. As for keeping- dust off books tha-t problem can be solved similarly by students using them. G- E Campus News OIL FRo:\1 WATER oowN on the \horrs of Lahr MarncnilJO in th<' eteamin~J: jun~les of \ eJtrZtJela, :.h~· Dutch Slwll Comr•any own\ rights to u ltfcy-milc- frontal(<'. Th<'re it has drilled ln~n, rlr,pi], of W<'li~ tu mal.r availahll' th<' rie-l:! <1il founrl in rll'poeit• mn~in~ from 1500 to 5()00 fept hdnw thf' Ink•· .-urfac·c•. ThP nu tural ~ta• \hirh acrompanies the oil (le-posil~ hat\ fur yf•an~ h~rn used to power t.b~ 1\Pils. In spitf' of 1hi• rhrap source of pow<'r, (;en!'ral El!'ctrir m~tinerrs under the supet·- viO<ion of E. E. Thomas, Kansas State '22, \\t'l'<' al.J,. to eon>inee offieials of the Dutclt ~hril Company that it would be more economi- t•td in lh<' ion~ run to llf\1' t'leclricily instead of natural p:as anrl !!:US <'ngines for operating pm•PL .\• :t r<'•nlt. a ·high-voltage linf' will Lf' .rr.,rl ed alonp: t lw lak<' shore, from which step- down transfnrntl\rs \>ill distrihute current [() tll'l' motor• in the producing areas. Tlw Lago l'l'lrolenm Company has wells in a s&ction paralleling the Dutch properties nnd cxtending ten miles oul in the lake, which has alre-ady h .... n eleC\trifit•d. The comhination of these two rnmpanics makes the largest clectrifierl syRi<'m of its kind in the world, from which ton,ooo harreh of oil are Rhipprd daily to refineries in A.rn!ta and C:1t1'acao, !'\. w. I. TEST ALl::HNI IH Y TO <'rl.!'btnl<' Lhe third annual r<'nrtion of <'ngineerin!': p;I'adua'tes of General Ele<'tric Test, men all nvl\r the \odd ~athered in ~roni>B to liMen to thr intrrnul.ional radiobroadcast of the reunion ul. Scltenc-ctudy. l'i. Y. Officers and prominent nwmh<>r~ of P.T.M ., or Past Test 1\le-n\s Association. s!'nl l(t'ef'tings to their fellow Testmen t>Hr liw (~('lll'rai m .. elric shortwave- ~talions, 'IV:.!\-AD and \\2XA.F. More than 15,0(}() lllt'll I\\<' graduated from G-E Test-a courl'lr which enahlrs them to supplement their theoretical knowledge with a practical training. Tt••t ~radnatt>i\ today hoiU many respon,.ihle pof<ilion• in thf' Company. Others have gonr in t.o every walk of life- engineers, lawyc•·s, utility executives, fanners, industrial leailrrs, hankcrs, and many other pt·ofessions. There- is, however, one tie ~hicl:, hinds them all- their <'xperience \on 1 est, and to many <>f t·hf'm that experience is recalled witl1 somewhat dw same enthusiasm as day• in coll~ge. F co of fo: na nil wl w~ Mr ye Fe co N: Sa wl th Cc br he fo so ar ar sh th fe m gt M so Jc pi hE w: pc pl th OI tb ta tb to PI re bE T S€ tt to w t€ tl y kr ri 1! ( I 1 l

League appear- distinctly night bright revealed Schenec- cos- nted. The ustice to a was The \In~ of the forced but players fact the enjoy- one ouf of lots of stars just orchids son for her and her And pas- for the similal' to. as the a lot. In would plained bit- like weeks write a the United have walk little Island the eagle subject is by any Haw- hand, and Arnold, on the salient ob- Harold Ni- Talk writes the im- con- For lucid is the mantle of becomingly. added, does John that a literary re- if not as felon. Here a com- is known of shed superb- still an Tradition a group of writers on 4) ped of to •'. lo Nith told ther tie ~'on asm THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1938 Page Three Five Plays Lions Tonight in N.Y. C. HANDBALL COURT RULES 1. Time Sheets are posted in the handball court room. In the .Showers II . Delta T.heta; Alleys 3 and 4-Kappa · Sigma vs. Phi Sigma Delta; Alleys · 5 and 6---Sigma Chi vs. Beta Theta ·'';;;=============;;;:!.! :Pi; Alleys 7 and 8-Delta Phi vs. ·~ Theta Della Chi. INTRAMURALS Columbia Has Already Beaten Williams and Springfield,; Union Loses to C.C.N.Y. 2. Playing periods for both singles and doubles will be limited. to one-half hour. If tbe following period is not engaged, play may con- tmue. by CARL R. TEAHMAN Basketball \21\ This round of matches completes the tourney. The winner of each The· <:;econd round of each b racltet league will meet the following week Most disappointing of this whole disappointing winter sports season must be completed on or before to- in a roll off for the championship. has been to us the fate of the varsity hockey team which ended its morrow, Feb. 9 • Opponents IDust The best two of th1ee games will h d 1 1 • 't . . arrange the time for their m.atches · decide the champion. After dropping a hard J!ought contest to C. C. N. Y. by a .score of 3'7-19 on Saturday, the Garnet forces invade the 125th St. gym- nasium o-f ·the Columbia Lions to- night for their second skirr:nish with a metropolitan. team in a week. The Lions, under Coach Paul Mooney, boast a strong squad this year, and have beaten Williams, Fordham and Springfield by very comfortable m a r g in s , although Navy banded them a set back on Saturday. Captain John O'Brien, who plays in the guard position, is the most outstanding man on the Columbia squad, and has played brilliant ball this season. O'Brien, however, is being closely pressed for scoring honors by Ed Ander- son and Tom Macioce. Anderson, an erratic playel.1, is left-handed and has been able to sink several shots by the simple expedient ()f throwing the ball in when the de- fense man <Jhecking him has mo- mentarily forgotten that he was guarding a left-handed player. Mooney ha.s two very promising sophomores in Sam Retano and John Naylor. 3. Players may sign up ONE day in advance for ONE period ONLY . sc e u e ast week by havmg 1 s games Wlth Colgate and R. P. I. which may be played any tiOJe be- . melted 'out. The disappointing thing is that while the basketball team t 10 30 1 d k . h ween : a. m. and :30 p. n. in · was expecte to ta e it on the chin th1s season, t e hockey team at· the pt esence of either Mr. ICetz or the start of the :>eason seemed to have the potentialities for a success- Mr. Lawrence. The third round of !·ul year. The squad was a fairly large one with many veterans-eight . each bracket must be conpleted of whom were seniers and will not play again for Union- -and promising on or before Saturday, Feb. 19. Boxing and Wrestling 4. Because of the present in- ability to accurately estimate the demand foi· the use of the· court, it is urged that the rules be strictly adhered to. This will enable the De- partment of Physical Educa- tion to determine what changes, if any, should be instituted. 5. TURN OFF LIGHTS WHEN FINISHED PLAYING. Union Tankmen Lose to Syracuse Four Garnet Records Broken By Dutchmen Swimmers In Upstate Meet Syracuse University's swimming team defeated the Garnet tankmen: at Syracuse Saturday af.te1noon by -a 44 to 31 score, despite the fact that the times of three Union Col-· lege records and one Foote Me- morial Pool mark were lowered by the losing team. \Chuck\ Pa.sse, sophomore rec- ord breakez· for Union, led the scoring of the Dutchmen by clip- ping the mark he set for the 220 yard freestyle in the R. P. I. meet to 2:30 minutes and also by beat- ing the time of his teammate, Burt Brittin, made in the HJO yard free- style in the R. P. I. meet. His time for this event, in which Brittin placed second, was 56.2 second, more than a second from the old record. !'escrve material; and the skaters were worldng well under doughty Dulle Nelson's emphatic tutelag-e. First, however, the squad was handi- . capped in not being able to practice .sufficiently on ice; then the weather man took a hand and foz·ced lhe cancellation of three games; and finally, the last year one-point jinx stai·ted working again. The team lost thxee games by one-point margins (a one-point hockey defeat is so hard to take because it doesn't settle anything) and tied the z·emaining game. So the whole thing was unfortunate, Perhaps next yea1 the fates will be kinder and the weather man too,. though you can never count on seeing a hockey game until its over or else played on the Madis·on . Intramural Basketlla:!l Feb. 8--7:30 p.m., Psi Upsilon vs. Delta Chi; 8:30 p. m., Theta D~lta Chi vs. Alpha Delta Phi. Feb. 9-7:30 p. m., Neutt·als vs. Kappa Sigma·; 8:30 p. m., Lam.bda Chi Alpha vs. Delta Phi. Bowling- Leag-ue Standings Classes in boxing and wrestling are held every afternoon ftom 4:30 to 5:30 p. m. in the gymnasium un- .de~ the direction of Ed Fitz and Bill Ketz, respectively. Feb. 4-- Si.g1na Chi f!lrl'l•ill•d to .~nrth Collt>ge. • * * Phi D<•lta I Phi Gumma Tllota (34) 1 D~lta (19) B'hanan,D. 4 3 ll,Hobei't 0 0 0 MYt:rs, F'. 5 1 11 Sands 2 2 6 Mould 3 0 6 Shanlev 4 3 11 Sq uat•e ·Garden rink, where ice is on tap. Aml\l'ican League Team w. · UFiffith 0 0 t'l(Le~l·ohier 1 0 2 F?wler ll u 0 Burwell 0 0 0 ·L. Fiester 2 0 4 ~I ad{enzie o 0 o Carson o o o Delta Upsilon . .. .. . .. . . .. . 1 '7 We are told that swimmers Arnie Gordon and Burt Brittin, fatigued Lambda Chi Alpha ........ 12 1 Noonnn _: _o _:1 6 7 9 9 !10m. the arduous Social Studies mid-years, took a vacation from swim- Phi Gamma Delta ........ 11 ming practice the early part of last week. Coach Wheatley had a rem- Psi Upsilon • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1J edy however. When the French-leavers appeared at the pool again, Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . 1J they worked some hours overtime, well into the .evening. We under-· Chi Psi ... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8 stand Coach Wheatley paced the boys, up and down, down and up. Kappa Nu ............. , . • 4 \What we want,\ said Joe, \is discipline.\ Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 10 14 16 7 5 l!J Feb. 5- I'III Sigma llU.JIJill AII•hn Tll\!ta. 1:18) (1) Pnul 1 1 :lj'l'hompRon Shoor 0 0 fl Notl Dwore 3 0 !l Hiclut r1l!-> Nationa.l League Team w. Seigle 1 o 2 Clay L. Kellin 2 1 5 Bali·ll 0 0 (I 2 1 5 0 0 0 1 0 2 n o o 0 0 0 0 0 0 It's curious that our basketba.ll team seems to go great guns the first Theta Delta Chi .......... 14 4 Bet·nfeltl 1 0 2 Brown 4 Epstein o 11 0 HolmeR half of each game and then suddenly go to pieces when the second half Phi Delta Theta .......... 14 begins .. Of course the game is strenuous and talt.es plenty of stamina, Sigma Phi ........ , .... , .• 1:2 6 Schultz 6 1 13• Srhron 1 0 ~; the Unton men are not human dynamos, and the new jump-tap omission Phi Sigma Delta .......... 1:1 7 Rugnrman 0 n n; 1~ ffi.3 3:il does not slow matters up any. But still we think that breaking train- Beta Theta Pi ............ 1~ tng rules may have something to do with it. :Basketball demands every Kappa Sigma .......... , . . '6 iota of the player's skill and stamina every second of the game and a Delta Phi ............ , . . . . ~ hangover is as quickly noticeable as Skippy Mavor's fur headpiece.· Sigma Chi · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !() Take it easy boys. Bowling- Schedule * 13 18 .Attention Union basketball I'eferees: our games here aren't New· Amelican League on Reuter's Al- Year's celebrations. Spare the whistle, and improve the game. You'll see Ieys at 1 =30 p. m., Wednesday-, Feb. more than enough with one eye closed. 9·: * * * Alleys 1 and 2-Kappa AlpJJa vs. There ~as some doubt when the intramural bowling leagues were Psi Upsilon; Alleys 3 and 4-D~lta started th1s year, that there would be many forfeii:.'S, many postpone- Upsilon vs. Kappa Nu; Alleys 5 and ments, and finally a dwindli11g of interest because the alleys were far 6-Alpha Delta Phi vs. Lambda Chi from the campus and conside:rable expense for the participants was· Alpha; Alleys 7 and 8-Chi Psi vs. involved. All doubt is now dispelled. The matches have been going on Phi Gamma Delta. for some weeks, in fact the finals a1e just in the offing, and interest Natlonal League on Reuter's Al- has increased rather than deci'eased This all goes to prove that the leys at 1:30 p. m., Thursday, Feb. 10: C'lti Psi C011\\'D.Y Keough Stewart Draper Murphy, D. Norris Alpha D~lta DeGesero Isabella Ca'maruta Pipito Simboli PagP ... * * (24) \ !!ig-mit 3 1 7 Diedrich 3 1 7 Wells 2 0 4 Bm·den 0 0 0 \Volfe 1 0 ~Gregory 2 0 1 11 2 24 .. .. 3 1 7 Pili (19) 3 1 7 1 0 2 3 1 7 0 1 1 1 0 2 8 3 19 • Phi' (13} 0 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 2 0 Alplta Delta l'lti (20) 11 Hllepard 3 0 6 4 J.'isher 1 0 2 :! ltalston 3 1 7 2 Wfenb><rr ·• 1 5 1 Dennett 0 0 0 4 Coac-h \Nels\ Nitchman has not picked his starting team, nor has he indicated what style of play he will use on the Lions; but it is pos·sible that the Dutchmen will play a slightly different system than that which they have played on the local court due to the fact that the referees in the metropoli- tan area seem to be more liberal in their officiating. They are slower to call fouls and to interrupt the progress of the game than are the referees under whom the boys have been playing thus far this season. The team, as a whole, however, .seemed favorably disposed toward this liberal officiating whi<lh seems to make for a livlier, if a some- what rougher game. • Captain Arny Gordon continued his splendid performances by turn- ing in a new low for the 200 yard breaststroke, the time being 2:46.8 minutes, three seconds better than his previous mark. The best time ever made by a 40() ya.rd relay team in the Foote Pool was reduced two seconds by the team composed of Teare, De Witt, Brittin, and Passe. possibilities for new intramural competitions are not yet exhausted. Alleys 1 and 2--Bigma Phi vs. Phi --- ---·----------------~--------~~--~~~~------~fl~1~1~3~1 ------~9~2~20 Downed by C. C. N. Y. After battling a tricky CCNY team on practically even terms for the first half of the game in New York on Saturday, the varsity bas- ketball team suffered a second pe- riod relapse, and was downed 37- 19. The s.::ore at half time was 15-11. In the first period the Garnet was slow and deliberate and played a vel'Y steady game, kept the ball in CONY territory a great deal of the time. In the second period, how- ever, the Dutchmen seemed to la<Jk fight, not fo-llowing up their shots as well as they had in the first period. They also lacked the finesse ln setting up plays and switcl:ling with their men that they had shown pre- viously. It was the in this second period also that the Beaver defense worked better than it had earlier in the game. Bernard Fliegel, star of the CCNY team was high scorer of the game, sinking six field goals anti two foul shots for a total of 14 points. Herb Watson sank three field goals· and two foul shots to lead the Gar- net scoring, and was followed by Lou Carr who sank three field goals. Summary: C. C. N, Y.- Goldstein, 1f ••....••.• Sand, If ........•..... H. Coffman, rf ...••.. Paris, r:f ..•.........• Daniels, rf •.......... Adler, lf ............ . Fliegel, c ...........• Soupios, rg .......... . M. Coffman, lg ..•... Katz, If ............ .. Roaenbert, rg •.••... · Totals •....... · · · • · Union- Watson, If .•......... Wiberly, lf .......... . Schultz, rf .......... . Tanner, l\f •.••••.•... Smith, c ............ . Miller, rg ........... . G 2 D 1 4 0 0 6 0 0 1 2 16 G 3 0 0 0 1 0 3 F p 1 5 0 0 0 2 0 8 1 1 0 0 2 14 0 0 0 0 1 3 0 4 5 37 :F p 2 8 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 6 OLD UNION By BILL KETZ Brittin, Garnet sophomore, took Tuesday, February 8 secGnd place in the 50 yard: and 100 yard freestyle events. With Union In 1898 George Holcombe, DJan- men taking in addition but three ager of baseball, announced· the thirds, Syracuse was able to clinch spring schedule which was to open the meet. Again the lack of a well April 9. Candidates were practiCing l'Ounded Union team was quite ap- daily in the gymnasium. Holcombe parent. stated, \This year the managernent .proposes to insist upon systematic Summaries: training. Heretofore men have sac- 300-yard medley-Won by Syra- rificed the interest of the teaiD for cUBe (Whitney, Goodman, and Lith- their pipes, the theatre, the dance. win. Tlme--3:40;6, If the student body does not -want 220-yard freestyle-Won by Passe these rules to be enforced, I .shall CU.), Wiggius <S.), Swift (S.l. Time hand in my resignation.\ ... In 1908 -2:30. Rochester defeated Union in bas- 50-yard freestyle-Won by Hen- ketball 24-16. The visitors who had derson CS.), Brittin <U.), Shattuck defeated Cornell, Williams, and (S.). Time-25.2 seconds. Yale had a difficult time overcom- Diving-Won by Stover <S.), Hup- ing the stubborn resistance of the ton (S.), Myers (U.). Winning total Dutchmen. The half ended 9·5-- ... -107 points. Williams defeated our hockey team 100-yard freestyle-WGn by Passe 13 to 3. This is the highest ;Score <U.), Brittin (U.), Lithwin CS.). ever run up against a Union group Time-56.2 seconds. of pucksters. . . • In 1933 the ~50-yard backstrolte - Won by weather was similar to that of to- Whitney (S.), Fleischer (S.), Miles day and the hockey match with <U.). Time-1:54. 'Williams had to be canceled. 200-yard breaststroke - Won by Gordon (U.), Oakley (S.), Ryan (S.). Time-2:46.8. 440-yard freestyle- Won by Wig- gins (S.), Shattuck CS.), Rinehart' IU.), Time-6:1.2. 440-yarq relay - Won by Union <Teare, DeWitt, :Brittin, Passe). Time-3:54. l ntrrestl!d in Sche1zutady lnterest~d in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairing a S pecilllty PARKER PENS A N:hlW SYMBOL OF a national organiza- tion dedicate to the sci~ entific control of dairy products, this seal is your assurance of finer ice cream. Carr, !g ............. . Doyle, lg ...... , ..... . 0 0 0 Buchanan, rg ....... . Totals .......•....•• 0 2 2 7 5 19 0 N ott Tenace Five Downs· Garnet Freshmen, 36u24 The Nott Terrace basketball team downed the freshman. squad 36-24 on the high school court Saturday night.. The high schoolers out- classed the cubs in the first half, · and were leading by a score of 24-13 -at intermission. The fresh- men, however, battled the local lads on eve:t:L terms for the second half, and seemed better in the last quar- ter than they had been in any part of the game. Steve Sharkey starred for the Schenectadians, and a<Jcounted for 16 of his teams' points. Jack Van- nier sank three field goals ali.d pUBhed tb,!:ee foul shots through the hoop to lead the scoring for the cubs. LOUIS WASSERMAN Cj)UALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway Phones 4!-3364, 4-3365 GAZETTE PRESS Printing • liOOO Tobacco farmers Bank on His Judgment John L. Pinnix-Independent Ware· houseman-is one of many tobacco experts who prefer Luckies .•. • JN THE warehouses Mr. Pinnix: has managed in Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina. 46,000,000 pounds of tobacco have beensold.Farmers travel many miles to bring their crops to M1·. Pinnix:'s warehouse for sale. Reason is that they respect his tobacco experience and business integrity. So surely Mr. Pinnix's views are worth your respect, too. .. At every market I've ever attended,\' says Mr. Pinnix:, \Lucky Strike has bought the ripest, mellowest tobacco offered, That's why I've smoked Luckies ever since I first became a warehouseman 20 years ago.\ Mr. Pinnix's statement is borne out by sworn records which show that, amongio.depe1ident tobacco experts -auctioneers, buyers, and ware· housemen-Luckies have over twice as many exclusive smok· ers as have all the other cigarettes combined. 5fJJ''\ -~ ~,,IJJ HAVE YOU HEARD \THE CHANT OF THE TOBACCO AUCTIONEER 11 ON THE RADI01 Vlhen you dD, remember that luckles use the finest tobe~cco, And also that the \Toasting\ process removes certain harsh irritants found In !i!!! tobacco, 5o Lu~klos aro kind to your throat. feeor«s .,, 1J,pf ••• WITH MEW WHO KNOW TOBACCO BEST· IT'S LUCKIES 2 TO 1 • •

Page Four Daley '92, Dies Suddenly Today \Continued from Page 1) York Herald Tribune as sports edi- tor. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1938 For Graduate Study Seniors who have any idea of going to graduate school arc t•e- minded that applicaitons for fellowships and scholarships in most schools close on February 15th or March 1st. The loce~l Committee on Graduate Studies has prepared a loose-leaf index notebook which is kept in the Dean's office, and which will enable any l;ltudent intet,ested in graduate W0rk to rind OUt where such wo·rk is offet~ed a.nd what ,;cholarships are avai.J- able. H. A. Larrabee, Secretary Com. on Graduate Studies NOTICES il II performer ·df the lot. Aside fr(}Ill M ·o T f 0 u the information that some ver'f · · · '\ · shady characters have been tied up · 11 ;;;;· =============;;;;\~. wi-th \our glorio-us past,\ the only ~ - thing Fanny Fan wHl learn :ft•{):m Cecil has bee.n playing again. this is the origin of the word The Buccaneer beat's. the same \·boss.\ . scars and bruises as all historical Ze Bockalleer, 'he ees vair v~ir' .pictures which have ,been through goot peecture. Y au Jlke beem, yas'? De Mille. The cast is made up of We like tieem, no! a huge assortment of those un- · * • • identified extras and bit-players · One of Universal's minor pieces, whose faces are as familiar as the Prescription fo1· Romance, fills out. stars'. The story Is of the connec- the bill. It isn't very important, tion of Jean Lafitte with the de- but it moves less ponderously than feat of the British at New Orleans its screenmate, and certainly de- in the battle that took place afte~ serves a couple of back-slaps f()r the war had been declared at an the scene in which Mischa Atl'er end·. The production? Lees see, says, \Who do yl)u theenk 1 am, now: Mother Nature?\ Wendy Ba.rrie is \SEE the blazing attack on Bar- veddy bad, but Mr. A., Frank: ataria, the pirate kingdom!\ Jen·ks, and Kent Taylor are all do-: Mr. Daley was known as the out- standing- authority on hot·se-raaing, and was a devoted follower of base- ball and football. But he wrote and gave th.e weight of his editorial support to all athletic sports. He wru; not a \swi vel-ctlair sports edi- tor\--he left that job to assistants. He covered major events, side by side with his own reporters, or alone, writing either a feature arti- cle or gathering material for his own column. He, for example, cov- ered every Kentucky Derby since 1917. At Saratoga be was the dean of sportswriters during the racing Notice: Org:mizatlons or persons season when he would spend the wishing to insert notices in The summel.\ at his nearby Lake George. Concovdiensis are requested to de- cottage. liver such items, typewritten if \SEE the heroic Battle of New ing well, than·k you. The greatest Orleans with pirates on the ram- fault we have to find with the pic- parts!\ \SEE the thrilling march of the Born in New Yodt, he wot·ked possible, to issue editor on Sunday nearly all his me there, died evenings for publication in Tues- in New York, yet he was known to day issues and on Wednesday eve- millions of sports foHowers as a nings for publication in Fridays homespun, shrewd, generous, olJ- Issue. Such nntices should be as server <>f athletic sports. brief as possible. Milton M. Enzer who worlted closely with Mr. Daley in regard to Uni<On's athletic publicity and who w~s telephoned the news of his death by Herald Tribune edi- tors, sa.id: pirates through the bayous of Louisiana!\ \SEE thE' duel to the death in a dungeon prison!\ \S·EE the scuttling. of a proud merchant ship at sea by buccan- eers!\ \SEE a lady walk the plank to CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY l'nco 1858 Hamburg Street PHONE 2-0910 \George Daley never was too busy t<O do something for Union College. He neve1· tired of helping the \..,allege News Bureau to handle sports intelligently, and effectively. He started the Block \U\ dinner in 1928 and ever since bas been the moving spirit in U1-e maintenance of this annual event. As chairman of the Undergraduate Affairs Com- mittee of the Graduate Council, he has qU-ietly brought about many 1·e- forms. He annually helped in ar- ranging the New York Glee Club concert. President Fox. always con- Hale House dining hours have seal the secret of a pirate's crime!\ been changed. Henceforth on week Are you l'ooking? Well, while days breakfast will be set·ved from you're about it, SEE if you can 7:15 to 9:30, lunch from 12:30 to figu.re out why Frecldy March 1:30, and dinner from 6:00 to 7:15. makes such a very poor pirate, On Sundays, breakfast from 9:00 · why Franciska Gaal mugs and to 10:00, dinner from 1:00 to 2:15, overacts, why they cast Hugh So- and supper from 6:00 to 7:-15. thern as Andrew Jackson, and why iA~k;i;m;;;T;a;m;i~r;o;H;;i;s;;th~e~o~n~ly~g~o~o~d~~~~~~~~;;;;~;;~~~~ Noti{'f'- All seniors interested in taking a new library bibliograph- ical cour,;e should see Mr. Webb to- morrow afternoon. sulted him on atheticl policies.\ Classical Concert TomQlTOW The first of the new series of concerts of recorded classical music sponsored hy the College Christian Association will be given in Sil]jman Hall tomorrow evening at 10:00 p. m. The program as an- nounced by John Brand, '39, chair- man -of the concerts committee, includEs Tschaiko.wsky's \Fifth Sympbony\ and \Symphonic Variar tions\ by Cesar Fra.nck. The Christian Association is con- ducting the new ce>ncerts with the hope of pl'Oviding a meeting place and some worthwhile relaxation for undergraduates after their eve- ning's studying. Members of the faculty and their wives as well as all students are urged to attend. There will be an important meet- ing of the business and editorial staffs of The Concordiensis tomol'- row afternoon at 5 o'clock THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Basement of Silliman Hall A Special Service for Union Students Anthcmy F. Barblerl HoUl'S: 1:30-7:00 P. M. ture lies in the •s·election of that ~·r=====~=====~=i'l DORM ROOiv.l FOR RENT :Middle Seetlon of Nortll· College title. Note! Havl:ng seen The Bad Man o:f B1limstone~ we arise to suggest tbat Noah Beery would make a very g·ood nenace to pit against his better-known and more cun- ' ning brother In future pictures. J. M. RooiJ1 U Foi· Seco1~d Semestel' CALI~ 4-8325 MON:OAV FE:B. () 14TN. Yive the fresh 1.Mt11f t~ CANDIES always appreciated 465 STATE ST. : : !::: : :··· ·: ··:. :.;.:: LlBRARY SMOKESTACK <Continued from Page 2) older writers which first appeared in The New Republic. The reap- P raitial\ are very an equal; the best are Robet t Cantwell on Upton Sin- clair and John Peale Bishop on Ernest Hemingway. Little space is left for magazine comment this time, but by all mea!lJS read Jolu! H. O'Brien's article on \Henry Ford's Com- mander in Chief\ in the February Forum. Harry Bennett emerges as a figure out of gaudiest melodrama. It's a friendly glow . • • that lighted Chesterfield. It brings pleasure and comfort to men wherever they are. H.W.B. - ~. - - o~------ FROEIILIG GIVES RECITAL Henry Froehlig, '32, concert baritone, wa·s a recent guest artist at th.e Willard Straight Hall, Cor- nell University. Mr. Froehlig was accompanied by Betyl Blanch. AMERICAN A-1 LAUNDRY rhe Most Perfect laundry Work in the Capital District Ph •. 4-3166 1030 Barrett St. BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop; l'ai nts, Oils, Vainishes, Gltws, I Urushes and Wall l'aper 126 BHO.<\DWAY Troy Second Shirt Outlet SpoolaJ.Izlng In Finest Troy Seconds 1 Odds and Samples 715 St.ate St. Across from Armory Rostanro.nt-Tap R.oom·Dallco.teseen GOLD'S ALWAYS fOPULAR ' . . Copyright 1938, ltGGRTT & MYPR~ 'roDAcco Co, That refreshing Chester· field mildness . . • that ap- petizing Chesterfield taste and aroma • • • makes a man glad he smokes. the!/ light th_e Wa!J to MORE PLEASURE ~~-~. z: l = v( c T A A 'PI •(lh fir aJ;J an A1 li@ 10' be tr: ve m th ta to in of pl vi nl fl.( le te e~ tj, C( F ooJ Sl OJ w 01 a; h s~ o· A .!:' h ti j

• Dean's -P11e-Meds Dist:I;ISS Club Plans tS List Announced Today Z: 51 I VoL LXI., No. 32 UNH>N COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1938 C()uncil Conside:r s Two Bands Playing At Fraternity Ball Action If Sales Wan ant Pl'iee Set at $3.30 a Coup-le 'Tax: Included; iDance From 10-3 The possibility that a popular l o- cal mchestra will be hired to au.g- ll:lent the music of the featurEd Hudson-DeLange band so that co-!l· tinuous dancing may be provided at he coming lnterfratern·ity Ball on Fr·iday, March 18, was made known today by Jack Nott, chairman. William T. Dewart, pxesident ami 'publisher of the New York Sun, has established. t:he W il- li~oo Thompson Dewat·t S~hol­ ar'slhip at Union College with tl:te annual stipend of $<b{)O, it was announced today ·b:Y :Fresi' dell t Dixon Ryan FoK. This seho0larship will be a.:va.ilable botll. to entering stude!l ts or to un<let·graduates and \\Ill go illtO effect during the a~38-~9 seho0Iastic year. N.lr. Dewart was genet·al man- ag~·r of the extensive a'll'fa.irs <Jf the late B'rank A. Muns.ey, witil whom. he was associa..tcd f<Jr many years. Upon M:r. Mun- sey's death Mr. Dewart ,bec-ame pre\Sident of the New Yo<Jrl! Sun -and ,other enterprises fonner.Jy con.tt•<Jlled. by Mr. Munsey-. Such action hinges solely upon · the interest shown by students ih buying tickets for, should the sales warrant such an innovation, tJle committee wm definitely follow this , Advanced Lib, J\'\lry course. Already a favored Schenec- Ill> tady o1chestra has been contacted, ·c Att· t• final signing of a contract deper.a:d-.. : 0 urse . rae 1 y e 11g 11pon the interest displayed. This noted Huclson-DeLange or- ! ,chestra, which will be making jts Way-s o,f Using Library Re· first Union campus appearance, 'is, appearing at Colgate this weeke:J~d search Devices Tt(l: :Be and at the Skidmore College Beallx.: Taught Arts on February 18-18. The de- light of Williams and Yalec music --- !(}vers, this group of mllSicians !:.as To enable seniors who are defin- been selected as one of tbe coun- itely planning to take up :g-rad.uate ry's outstanding bands equally well. 1vorlc an opportunity t<> understa.:nd versed in \sweet\ as well a.s \hot\ 1vhat it means to search ior library music. Lovely Freda Gibson will do: matecrial and to build a ..vo:rthwhile the vocal interpolations. '· bibliography, Helmer L. \Woebb c<>l- Price $3.30 Couple . ·lege il brarian, will ina-ug--urate a The price of the dance, which will: new non-credit course ne&t Wednes- ake .place in Alumni Gym fr<>m 10 daY\ afternoon in meeting wi·th a o 3 o'clock, will be $3.30 pe·l' cOUJ!3le, small group of upperclassnen. mcluding all taxe:;. A slight raise, 'I'his library bibliogra}li:t.Y cla.:as, of approximately one dollar is: which starts at three o'cloclt in Ml'. planned for the last 10 days p1·e-. Webb's office, will be restricted· to vious to the dance, a formal affair.· otudents named on the Dean's •Wst Booths, subscribed to by frat~r-· and recommended by tbeir m~jor nities, will extend the length of the, professor for a graduate sc1tool. fioor on both sides. Larg.e Greek Meetings will be liroit:ed to ap- letters, corresponding to the ba- '()mxjmatei;y four .we.e~s, consisting ternity names in italics will adorn in the mam of mdtVldlllal confer- each booth. The complete deco-ra- ·enees with the l.ibra 11an once a tion.s will center arouncl a general,, we€k. Students w1l1 be expected to c<Jlor scheme of Garnet and White. i devc.te several hours of work each Four to five rows co!lllisting each · yv-e€k. Wh~t M:. Webb will 'be mo~t oJ seven colored lantern lights Y\'ill mt?t:'ested m wrll be the manner- ~n :;;upply the light from the ceiling, whrr!h. the students ga.ther the1r on lowered .supports. Two gateways mater-t-al. will be open at either end with 'the Class Divisl.~ns orchestra stationed between tho()se The class will be divided Into two a.t the southern tier. secll ons, Mr. Joseph S!Lipnan, as- Baker Describes 'Travels in Egypt Recess Wallace F. Baker, '39, exchange:[ camles or maybe sheep, right on student at St. Andre-.v'·s University.: the main drag; on the othet• side, writes from Scotland ,(hat he spent civilization in the form of a Fotd tae Christmas reces.s touring the: V-8.\ Continent and parts cif :Egypt. From Cairo he travelled to Luxor, Taking an Adriatic steamer from: where, midst torrid temperatures, England to Cairo, he was met by ai he discovered the \real Egypt\. He f-raternity brother, upon landing,: does not, however, think so much with whom he made .a. .tour of i.he: of the Jiving standard of \real city. Egypt\ mentioning that it is only a Wally writes, \Cabo is -oriental,. shade above that of India's, which oE e·ourse, Mas! em .re]igion . , , and· is not too good. Before returning the people make me laugh .. , dirty home he attempted to ride both Arabs, filthy streets. beautiful· camels and donkeys, having fair .parks, and above all. centrast. On: success with the camel, but finding one side of the street a. train of :1 the donkey rather reluctant. ]iu jitsu Exhibition Planned By Spencer Lecturer 'Next W'eek A well-rounded program con- sisting of a demonstration in the art of Jiu Jitsu, classroom talks, a Daily Assembly speech and several dinner engagements by H. Irving Olds, noted expe-rt on Japanese life, will be termi- nated with an lchabod Spencer Foundation levtw-e Tuesday night, in Old Chapel, on \How to U n de r s t an d Japanese Prints.' He will set up all exhibition in Bailey Hall of :36 framed Japanese color block prints and mater'ials necessary for their making. Born ill Japan, Mr. . • · Olds is of a third generation of \High Tor'~ Chosen. btsurance Protrram an American missionary family . ~ there. As Festival Play Revived by Council --- · --- Philomatheans To Coburn, HollywoO>d Star, Pre-· Senior Class Hopeful of Rais· 0 B S paring fOI' Summer ing Endowment pen usy eason Courses He1e Fun-d \High Tor,\ Maxwell Anderson's: outstanding Broadway success of: last season and recipient of the New York Drama Critic's Circle 1tighest award in H37, ohas been: d.efinitely scheduled to be presented: by the Mohawk D1a.D1a Festival, d. uring i w 1928 season of seven i weeks, from July 5 to .August 27, it: was announced today by Frederick Calvin, general manager. This play by one of America's ·foremost playwrights, .according to Mr. Calvin, \mingles th.e modern world and the phantoms of the ,old Dutch settlers. With its setting in the heart of tbe Ca tslt ills, the play in its atmosphere and background is said to be somewhat reminiscent of that old favorite, 'Rip Van Winkle.' Charles D. Coburn, directing head of the Mohawk Drama Festival, is also selecting anothet• .play which b.as its setting and l<Jcale in old New York State. At present, he is completing his. sec.ond cinema role, . that of a president of a small East- ern. college, in \Vivacious Lady\ starring Ginger Roger:>. After fin- ishing one more p!ctu1·e for MGM, he will l'eturn to the campus in April to supervise plans for the summer festival. Cob1.1m P:.:aised Wednesday, Feb. 9.-The Student Council again gave its sanction to the class insurance plan for raising an endowment fund in meeting to- night. Plans for a discussion with. representatives frorn two insurance companies have been arranged for the next Council meeting, Wednes- day, February 16. Hyman A. Enzer, '38, who reintro- duced the insurance plan which was started last year, explained in brief outline the purpose for establishing a class endowment fund, and the method for accomplishing it by in- dividual life insurance policies. The senior class, as well as the under- classes who will be expected to co· operate in establishing an endow- ment fund in similar manner, will be organized to make the plan really effootive this year. Outline Dlsiaibuted An outline which Enzer distrib- uted to all members of the Council listed the following points: 1. Seniors will take out life insur- ance policies of $1,000 . 2. Within 15 yea.xs dividends of $100 will accumulate, the college to be made beneficiary of that amount. 3. Yearly payments on insurance will amount to about $20, to be paid in quarterly or semi-annual installments. Meet Hamilton, Swarthmore and Delaware; IReturn Over WGY Continuous relations which have remained unbroken for over 20 years will again be renewed this year by the Philomathean Society when two junior debaters ttavel to Clinton next Fr ida.y to meet the Hamilton College team jn a plat- form debate on the subject of the present parole s)·stem as adminis- tered is detrimental. The Philomatheans opened their second semester sched.ule last week- end in Aurora in a trio, non-deci·· .sion talk on the same topic. How- ever, the Hamilton meeting will set the program in full sw•ing, being the first of three debates over a four- day period. As yet, no definite n<Jvelty a.cts sistant librarian, super-vising: the have been pla.n11ed. There may be wo-rk of the students fran the sci- Regarding his fjrst Hollywood several dance contests staged ba.:oed -ence, and engineering d-epartments venture in \Of Human Hearts,\ on the latest steps such as the ~ig 1 and Mr. Webb taking ·charge of which is having its local premiere Apple, Shag, Suzy-Q, and the l~ke. · .stud.en.ts from the la.ng\lla.~e liter- at the Albany Palace theater dur- Negotiations are also underway to atur-e and social sludi.es di. visions. ing the next five days, \Variety have a portion of the evening's :fes- The .fir'st part of the co-ur'se Vl'ill had this to say: \Cb:arles Coburn tivities broadcast by a local station. consist of an elemen.tary trahting brings his seasoned stage talent to perloOd in the ways of tuing the this, his screen debut, for impres- •vari~u·s indexes and -cataLfjgues in sive display as the benevolent,· ·a library relative to the ga.tllel'ing drunken doctor who inspires the of -t•eseal'eh material. T'his will be boy's ambition. It ~ill win ap- . f<Jl!owed by the discu:ssLOll!. of indi- plause anywhere.\ 4. Policy holders to receive full benefits and dividends of policies, except for amount to be turned After Bernard K.ra.use and Rob- ert Walter oppose the Clintonites, Robert C. Denzler and Chaxles B. Honiltel, both seniors, and presi- dent and manager of the Philoma- thell;Il organization, respectively, will argue in a trio debate over Sta- tion WIP at Philadelphia, February 21, with the Swarthmore College squad. The following moxning, Den- zler and Honikel will engage in a platform debate beJore the student body of the University o-f Delaware at Newark, Delaware, with its col- lege tepresentatives. WGY Broadcasts Resumed over to the college. 5. In case of death, college and After a lapse of sevexal months, other beneficiaries to receive bene- 1 adio broadcasts over the local sta- fits as provided for in usual policy. tion, WGY, will be resumed with 6. Purpose of plan is to establish three monthly ·appearances, the first a fund during period when young ccheduled for March 5 with the alumni are usually just settling fl- Syracuse Univer'sity students on the naneially and when they will be question of adoption of unicameral- Albany Medical College Dean Speaks Tonight 'vid1.1al bibliographical problems ac- He portrays the ro-le of a bibu- The Union College Chapter of 'co:r<iing to student desir-e. lous physician in a stnall pioneer tlte Society od' the Sigma Xi has ' Mr. Webb str'essed the iact t.lta.t town in Ohio. As Ilr. Shingle, the invited the members of the Sche- only- students -desirou:s '()f leam1ng village sot, despised by the good nectady County Medical Ao;so-4:ia- s()iltethmg tathet· than ot: seeldng .church people, he influences a tion to meet Dean Robett S. C~.~onn- 'hlgb grades should pursue the backwoods youth who grows up to ingham of the Albany Medical Col- cou~·se. . become a noted su rgE\on. The pic- lege at a dinner in Hale Ho'l.lse, · o · ture revolves around pioneer life followed by a lecture by Dean Cun- :'.Garis, Tl·avis Remlv from a circuit-riding preacher's ningham in the adjacent ~ld I:\'>' viewpoint, terminating with the Chapel tonight at 8:15 o'cloclt on To TI·anscript Query Civil War. 'Nutrition and Endocrinology as ___ Incidentally, Mr. Co0burn has re- making in-vestment in life insur- ism by the various state legislatures . ance anyway. Definite plans 'nil be formulated 7. Other colleges have instituted in the neru.· future regarding the insurance programs to raise undct- annual State Debater•' Convention grad.uate and alumni funds. Prin- to which Union will be host this cipal system is to take out endow- year from April. 29--30. The conclave meut policie;;, college to receive the I will be conducted a:• a c>onstitu- full amount of the policy and the tiona! convention, considering the individual to receive nothing. Us- same problems the New York con- ually, it is a policy of about $~00 vention will discuss. with yearly payments of $7, matur- ----o---- Government Students Host to Officials ing in Z5 years. Douglas Smith and Henry Gul- PRICE FIVE CENTS Ralston Selected St.Andrews Swap For 1938-39 Term Active in Campus Life Pt·esident of Class for Two Years; 'FI·osh Tennis Player Thomas H. Ralston, '40, has been selected as the fourth exchange stu- dent from Union College to the Uni- vetsity of St. Andrews, Scotland, President Dixon Ryan Fox: an- nounced today, to succeed Wallace F. Baker·, '39, now studying abroad. The name of the exchange stu- dent from St. Andrews from the academic year, 19~8-39, to succeed. Andrew Dryburgh of Fife, Scot- land, at present studying with the senior class at Union College, will be revealed later this spring by the Regents of the University. The choice of Ralston continues dents arranged th1·ee years ag<J by the program of interchanging stu- Dr. Fox and Sir James Slaquhoun Irvine, principal and vice-chancellor of St. Andrews. Exchange scho!ru.·s receive tuition, board and lodging from the inetitutions they visit. Has Va•·ied Career Ralston, a major in the Division of Social Studies, is a g1aduate of the Mercersburg Academy where he was active in numerous undergrad- uate activities and from where he was graduated with high scholastic honors. At Union, he has continued his \·aried interests, maintaining a high scholarship and particip3ting in the activities of the Glee Club, the Choir, freshman tennis team and the Mountebanks. He was elect· ed president of his class both in hi.~ freshman and sophomore yea:s, was chosen to the Student Council in both years and was a freshman re- porter on The Concordiensis. He won the Van Orden prize for the best English composition among fre~hman last year. Past exchanges have proved very successful, six Union and St. An- drews students benefiting from the program. In the first year George P. Haskell, '37, of Huron, S. D., ex- changed with Clark Beckett of Fife, Scotland. Brian S. T. Simpson of York, England, was the next Scot- tish University student to come to Union a11d John S. W{)!d, '38, of Schenectady was last year's selec- tion by Union College. Ralston is a resident of Brock- way, Pa. He is the third member of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity to be named as exchange student. Idol Appears On Campus Next Friday Afternoon The storm now centering over the Idol, Union College's semi-liter- ary magazine, will reach a head when the magazine mal~es its ap- pearance February 18th. In an effo1l lu benefit fwm campus criti- cism the magazine has widened its field of contributors, two freshmen being among the- number, revised the cover, eliminated syndi~ated materia·! and generally readjusted the make-up. A full page of campus photo- graphs,, now at the engt·avers, has 'They are Related to Medical Ptab- 1 In 1 ·eply to o;everal inq_ul:o:-ies m.ade. ceived permission to use the script !ems.\ ·to -the Concordiensis re;ga.xding. the of the picture in his course of the Although this is not the first :high cost chatged bY\ tbe Adlliinis-' Institute of the Theate1· this sum- time that Dr. Cunningham has , : tration Office for o·ffl>clal eollege mer, thus becoming \he first cin- visited the Union camp\lS since he!: transcripts, Dean Cha,l'ies F. F .. ema script to be studied in the an- becam~ dean of the Albany. Med- Garis and Miss Frail ce:s Travis,· nual course. nac, both of the class of '34, and Curtis Stewart, '37, are the agents for the Penn Mutual Life Insurance and the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance companies, who are sup- porting the class -endowment pro- Students in the State and Local held up publication, all manuscripts being on hand. To be called \Life government class will hear both U .. h ical College on July 1, 1937, it wilL;, whose office is charged· with the: ;===============:; be his first public appearance in.. t.uht, clarified the situat:lon vvith CLOSING Schenectady. : the following statements. ----o Dean Garis explained th.at several Mechani.cal Code Sencler' years ago the conege jss.ued tmn· s~ripts tci students free .of charge, Helps Radio Club '~Hams''! but changed it.~ poliey to confOI'm A machine is helping members of: ihe Radio Club earn thcl r a rna teur: licenses. In Room 18 of the Electrical En-: gi:peering Laboratory is a -code sending machine which will .:lend messages in Morse code from a .per-' !orated tape at any specified rate o:f speed for practice pur.:poses. It ha:s been rented for· a pel'iod .of threoe· months by the Club; possibly it ma:'5' eventually be .pu-rchased:. The machine will help the R.adi(). Club to obtain the required speed o-f thirteen words a minute fo1· aD OJll· erator's license. Some members will practice for a third class lic~nse, 15 words a minute, since ·the R. c. A. h81l• offered work In its mainter .. anece department for sophomore, jt:lnioll',. P.nd senior electrical engineers s:o qualified. wilh th.ose of the majprlAY' of. col- le~.es throughout thle coliTltry which levy the same ome-<lollar fee. Furthet·more, complain.ing students· do not consider the time and trou- ble Involved in making out tecords, some requiring as muclt as threfl !tours work. Dean Gat'ls pointed out. The. main point l>ro';.1g:ht out by Miss T:ravis is that the 01alting up of a. ti'anscript does ·not involve merely .the typing ollt and ma.iling of th.ese records but the interpreta- tio-n and analyzing of the stud€nt's f()UJ' years at c·olleg:e onto .the sheets. Care and ptecisi~n must be taken so that the tra.ns.cript is :neat, accu.rate and condse., {JOntainlng added helpful matel'i!l.l that some colleges do not lnd\Ud.e. Eln.gineer- ing forms are more diffcul t to · draw up than aca.de:rni<: t1·anscripts. BARD Lack of Funds Forces 19~8-::l9 ('}()sing Lack of funds has caused Bard College, a unit of Cuulmbi~J, Uniwt·: sity, to decide to close its doors June 30 for at lea,; t one year. Acting Dean Hawld Mastre, wli.o made the annuuncerx1ent at a o;pc- · cia! meeting of fac:ulty and stu-. dents, stated the eo urse of action had been decided upon by the board of tr.ustees. The institution, founded in 1860 as St. Stephen's <:o!li~ge, may re- open for the academic year of 1939-40 if trustees can raise an ad- ditional endowment of $1,500,000 or receive assurance-:J. of annual in- come equivalent to a. >reasonable re- turn on such a ca.]litrul sum, Dr. Mestre added. Bard College is situated at Ann- andale-on-the-Hudson. side~ of the la·w ·enforcement con- at nion t e photo page will be contributed entirely by student posal. ttoversy that is now being waged camera-men. All pictures will be between state and federal agencies new. when representatives from both. 0 ___ _ PST, PRE-MEDS fac·tions speak before them. Pro- Wot•ks .n.f Fr·anz Sehubei't fessor Vernon A. O'Rourke an- \' Club Plans Proposed At Org·anization Meeting nounced today that Major w. H. Featured by Dr. Tidmarsh Drane Lester, inspe~tor in the Fed-. eta! Bureau of Investigation, will :;peak to the da:;s un Monday, Feb- ruary 14, and Henry Epstein, Soli- Wednesday, Fe·b. 9.-Mirtdful of citor-General of New York ~tatP, Hte future and anxious to lca 1 n tl:t·, will talk nn 'T'hurd;~y. FPhruary 17 · practical duties of the physician. a I Major Lester w!ll ~p~ak i_n Sil.li- large gathering of nearly 50 pre-- man Hall and wrll pru;'lanly drs- medical students gathered this cuss the m~~~~Jlls by whrch federal afternoon in the Biology Buildin~ and ~tat<' .\thre.n. cooperate and· to discuss plans for ot·ganization. w:here the ]unsdrcttons of e!l-ch be- Preliminary plans call .for visits to gm and end. At present MaJor Les- hospitals and lectures by local doc- ter is one of J_ E.dgar Hoover's tors. administrative assistants, instruct- Many of the students in attend- ing ?-nd training_ ~en in the Bu- ance are members of the Chemistry reau s three tramtng schools ~or· Club but they expressed desires of ne\Y agents, old agents and pohce f , . . t 'th 1 • offtcers. 01 mmg a soc1e y w1 c oser m- M E t · ·ill k th terests. . r. ps em w spea on · e re- Election of officel's will take place at the next meeting, sched- uled for Wednesday afternoon. All pre-medical stu:dents have been urged to attend. latiOns between st!l.te and local law enforcement agencies. He will also discuss Governor Lehman's pro- posed erection ·of a state depart- ment of justice. An address at Daily Assembly will follow. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmursh wi'll fea- ture the compositions of Franz Schubert In his WPPkly organ r~C'i­ tal flundal' aftPTnnon in M!'morial Chapel. in addition to Schubert, musi<' of RobPrt S<'humann will also be played. The complf'tf' pt ogram will ron- sist of \Schubert's Marche Mill- tare,\ \By the Sea,\ \Moment Mus- ical,\ \Ave Maria,\ \Unfinished Symphony'' (first movement) and Schumann's \Concerto in A Minor.\ Next Sunday a program of Amer- ican compositions will he presented by Miss Helen Henshaw, organist of the First Presbyterian Church, Albany, and Hugh Sharpe, Jr., pian- ist, a senior in Union College, and organist of the Second Presbyter- ian Church in Troy. They will play \Symphonic Suite\ for piano and organ, by Clokey.

Page Two THE CONC()RDrENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1938 cil or the college pass a detailed l'Uling· g-ov- ll even after our daily assem.bly bas 1 ·. lost practically every religious as- erning participation in activities. High schol- ·: 1 N T H· E M A I L pect, this same now ridiculous pen- arship should be llUtde a principal 1 -eq_ ulre-.: alty for non-attendance still stands. Lt is wbateve1• respl)~t for reli- ment, no other offices should be pew1itted gious beliefs there is left around t d t h ld . t · 1 · h 't' d the college and not the students di- FOU:!IDED 1S77 S U ens o mg- cer am ·Hg · pos1 JOJ.1S, an YOUR FA.(i)TS, MR. MULVEY! bringing in a pile of towels ~t the rectly affected that reaUy st~ffe1·s salaried jobs outside of college :IJtt nc·tiOilS ·To the Edit<>r: start and placing them In an easily under the plarh There :are some of \A Causa 'Pfi!!rsa Parole A·ssai\ 1937 Nenber 1938 r.:-tssociafed <OUett>iate Press h ld b . . . 1 • In last Tuesday's Concordy, the accessible place. Some candidate us who still admire -the Bible S ou e g-Iven SUIU ar consideration_ column appropr-iately named Just manager should be stationed close enough to wish to see it introduced Very rarely can a flock of g-ood student m Jest .printed a statement that the at hand to replenish the supply. here as a bona fide literature academic paort of the Mohawk This would eliminate the worry .of . course of the type which have been Dlat:nl>utoc .of ColletSicrle Di6est administrators be developed in coHegE activ- Drama Festival, The Institute of where the next dry towel is coming very ·suacessful In a number of ities, !Jut there is no rea:son wh ,, a f-ew am-' the Theatre, would be al:Jolished from. Towels at the starting line, other schools. Probably that is im- oJ thi.o summet•. :For the .benefit of , which afford a better footing,· possible. Now, however, by sus- bitious, and perhaps personally pl~s ing, in-· your more credulous readers may I ·should be replaced more often. taining a course, necessarily rather REPRESE.NTED fOR. T'!AT tOI-lAL AOVERTI~ING BY l'lational Allver-tisi11gService, Inc. d . 'd t t ti t t·b 1 · 8 1·s ent1'rely untrue It is such a simple matter as this \snap\ In natut·e, as an extr·eme lVl · uals should be pern1itted to lno.,opoll.''''. \ a e 1 a · · · '\ \~ Not only will the usual 18 hours a that leave:; a bad impression with penalty an<1 filling it with generally the main collegiate functions. It wou]d WOl'k' week of regular class-l'oom work be. the rival intercollegiate teams that antagonistic students, the adniinis- . · t · d b t lso the tndt'vt'dual stop off at Union. Little attention t1·a· tt'on not conter1t to at least have Co/lege Pi1b.li~l,ms Reprc ,et:taltt'C 420 M\DISOI>l AVE NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO • Bl}<:~r,.._. • Ln~ .AII<.;E:HS • SJ\N rRArlCI5::o for the best of the entire college if activities' fn_~~~u~~~;n• · 0 ~ !ach student will is paid to the obvious; great notice the Bible alone, is ridiculing it. wel'e spread over as mu·ch of the lUTclei·grad-: thoroughly t:elate the theDl'y and, is taken of the seemingly unimpor- Union has never had very relig- The official newspaper or the students of Union College. Published Tlles<iay and Fridays through- out the eollege year, excEJpt during ChristwaK and· Spring reresses. practice of his activities in the • tant, ious tendencies. That's its own uate body as )>Ossible. For the sake c:Jf mak-; theatre. It has always been the sin-: Pet·haps the correction can be business. At least, however, it · · d · f th ff' 1 f the made in time for the Amherst meet d · 't d t k a oro 111 g our student activities clel'!YOC!'atic cere e~tre o e o tee ·s o oeso nee . o ma e a sc re- w Publication Office, The Gazette· Press, 33•1 Stn.te St., Schenectady, N'. Y .. Telephone 4-4141 Festival and Institute to give more . Friday. If not, surely for the Col- out of Christianity. shouldn't we restrict participation in time- than value received for the stu- gate and M. I. T. contests. John Lewis, '41 dents' tuition. And this, I believe, J. Ii:ntercd at the Sc~henec·tady Post Office n~ Second ·Class Man ~latter conHuming ncti vities '! ha~ been fulfil·led. \ o Edward L. C!llrron, smLE WIDPPING POST The Cider Mill Subscription price Five cEnts a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. IW!torlal Hooms, Silliman Hall. Union College Campus. Telephone. Schenectad~ 4_·0_1_3_3. __ THANKS GIVING Chairman, Institute of the Theatre 'Do the Editor: $ * INSLPID l'UBLICATIONS BOARD To the Editor: A student is a:llowed 50 chapel The ·cmtstanding result of last Sertior Board Hyman A. Enzer .......... _ .... Edito~-in-Chief 11 S. S. &> uth. College~6-9728 Robert H. Ferg11soa.., ........ Managing Editor Psi Upsilon House-4-8710 Julius J. Bundgus. _ .... _ .. _ ...... News Editor 9 S. S. Soutlt College-6-9728 Henry D. Hartmann._ ......... Feature Editor 7 0. G. V.-6-~620 Carl R. Trahman ................. Sports Editor Kappa Sigma Ilouse-·1-8325 John H. Gilm<>ur .. _ .. _ ...... Business Manager Delta Upsilon House~4·7922 Marvin M. Miller .. Associate Business Manager Kappa Nu-4-7331 Alfred R. Seigle- ... _ .. _ .... Circulation Manager KapJ:Ja .:Su-4-7331 In the complimentm·y editorial raood we would extend to the College Chdstian Asso- ciation our thanks for the series of sym- phonic recording-s which was begun -wednes- day night in Silliman Hall. A fine rcecording- machine and a g-ood amplifying system make it possible to hear some of the best recot'd· ings ever made. Every Wednesday night at 10 there is an opportunity to hea:r excellent music. We are mol'e than appreciati-ve. Allow me to add my <>pinions to the controve1·sy raging between \The Cider Mill\ and Washbu~n Hall. Having been: a member of the Idol staff for two years, I am be- ginning to get a little tit·ed of the inef:!'ectual criticism of the Idol. Frankly, l helieve nothing can be done about the mediocre results turned out. Now you will ask me, \How so?\ I have three definite answers. First of all, the manuscripts which the ld<>l prints represent ap- parently the best efforts that stu- dent writers can produce. Or rather, the-re is a complete indiffer- ence to writing by th<>se who could produce better results. Dr. John- son's attempts to \stimulate\ the Idol Board .by creatiag competition is doomed. On the deadline for his prize contest he had received ex- actly two manuscripts. This shows how abundant creafive writing is at Union. bolts a semester, and if he over- week's column seems to be that the -bolts, 1'5 the next. If he fails to Concordy headline writer has de- make the grade the second time, he · clared war between Dr. Johnson must take a compulsory course in and the Cider Mill. That I did not the Bible. I am not arguing for or attack Dr. Johnson, that he did not against the compulsory chapel sys- attack me, that our whole discus- tern. If we are to have it, 50 is cer- sion revolves purely about a dis- tainly an ample number of bolts. agreement on methods of attaining If, with the rule in force, any un- an end we both sincerely desire- dergraduate fails to get to chapel· clid not d-eter that particular expon- about half the time-which is what ent of yellow journalism . in his \compulsory attendance\ amounts· quest for sensationalism, The rat. to-he deserves some penalty. I· As t<> the matter of the Idol, I do not want to attack, however, refer you to the In The. Mail col- with whatever feeble force I may, umn, where Bill Endicott of the Idol the nature of the second penalty. · Board }licks up the cudgels. Person- What the migin of the compul- ally I will refrain from further com- sory-course-in-Bible · rule is, I do men t until the February issue ap- not know. Probably it is a combin· pears,- on O<r before the eighteenth ation of two vestiges of the last of this month. Then we'll have generation when college assemblies something to go on. To judg-e William Allen, '95, and William Jtmbr Board ASSOClATE EDITORS Frederick W. HeCluernbourg H. Wyman Hltchl'oclc Robert A. Saaf ~luxe L~u Jerome Smith Edward c. Retartyk Hobert C. Waller, Jr. Alan C. \\'ramt T. Dewart Union College owes thanks which can be most appropriately given through the student newspaper. The enlargement of the scholarship fund through the $5,000 given by Judge Allen and the annual $4()0 scholal'- ship given lly the famous pul.Jlisher, is some- thing the college is amdous to fmther. were actually religious in nature In the meantime, a crusader need and when there was enough natural fear no lack of suitable Saracens on interest to support a regular Bible the Union College camp.us. Hale course. As each of these situations Hou.se is ever a shining ta.rget. This began to falter the two became ad- week's diatribe is prompted by an mirable props for one another, and (C<>ntinued on Page 4) 8opaomore Board Chrislopher Cammack, C. Rus:::-ell Dt=rn. UoLPrl 1-:i>ner, Clnbto!Jher .F;chy. Walter Fall\\· J::d ward A. Fit2 •• J1· .• Sta.uel:y (lertz. AlhPrt 11. Halavin lleorge L. P~t·k, U\\\.~ l'(>nH~ r. PeliE\tiPl' Jr. Freshtnan Board Paul \\·. Becker, Jul-111 Bttllllltger, llavill I•~ait·tield. Donald Haigh. V\.'.lJl i.1m 11un1phrey, John l..Pwi::;, Kennf'th Mac~Keuzie, ... Jol111 }lhi1ips, Murtimer Itobin~. Hobert :khulb~rg-, Lt~tnu ~d.l\\al'lz., .J<llllt·:-- F:. Twining, JnmeH Ullmu1t. R. Walter C. Cammack Issue Editor Jm:nne Smith Assistants J. 'Twining; L. Schwartz E. Fitz Friday, Fe-brua.ry 11, 1938 LIMIT STU{) ENTS' ACTIVITIES? The National Student Federation, of which the Union College Student Council is a mem- ber, is making; a. g:-en,eral survey of extra- curricular activitie!; in all its member col- leges to dete1'mil1.e to what extent there is \over-organization\ on various campuses. At the same ti:r:ne it presents some timely arguments from sorne colleg-es on the feasi- bility of limiting ])artidpa.tion in student activities, a problem which came up bef(}re the students at U:nion very forcibly last year. There was the almost notorious case of members of The Mountebanks cutting classes and neglecting studies in order to fulfill the requirements of a.. number of minor activities in addition to ex:iensive work with the col- lege dramatic p1:o<lactions. The benefits to be gained in the broaden- ing experience of personal contacts and work in diverse activities, are not to be denied- as Stewart Tosh ]Jointed out in daily assem- bly one day. But it -will be admitted that try- ing to do too much gives general tmth to the phrase \Jack of all trades and master of none.\ There is a problem here with which the administration as well as the student body is very much concerned. The complaint about its scholarship beiug neglected for student activities is n(}t entirely borne out. But it is true that there is by no means as much studying as therE could and should be--and the fault may lie either in the .existence of too many activities or in participation in too many activities. A survey of the senior class shows the unequal proportion of few men with student activities and a gTeater number of students with barely any, We congratulate Tommy RalslolL f(Jl' the opportunity given him to study at St. An- drews next year. The exchange v.ith the Scottish University has functioned with great success and we hope with great bene- fit to the men who have studied at foreign institutions. As Union's representa.tive stu- dent at Scotland Ralston should fulfill the college's fondest hopes. IDLE DRIVEL We have neVIs of Union students om different f~onts for this issue. There is, fit·st, the sto1·y of a freshman who met a Skidmore girl at one of the Terrace Council's parties, and arranged fur a subse- quent date. The girl's name was t-)'nthia, in case any of our readers are interested. On a Saturday night, the frosh W\;ndered up North, and proceeded to the dorm wherem. the girl was staying. Another of her dormitory mates came to the anKious frosh and, befme he had a chance to state his case in- quired: \Are you looking for Cyn ?\ The frosh look- ed puz.zled for a minute, and then beamilng happily he answered ''Oh no, no, I'm only a ·frestaman.\ • Last week on Friday night, St. Rose College for Women at Albany held their annual prom. Several Chi Psi's and Sig Chi's invaded that in.sUtntion usually monopolized by our friends fro1m R. P. I. According to reports, they \had a. grca'l: time\ de- spite minimum space requirements for dancers. Two days later the Sig Chi deiPgation received clippings sent to them by their St. Rose dates. The crudely ripped news articles gave rules of etiquette for dances, and certain statements which ·described the a:rt and stimulation of conversation wero underlined. We might suggest that the classes in p'l.lbUc speak- ing be devoted to classes in the art of aonversation. .,. ;~ To drift a bit, we have it from the Wesleyan Argus that Miss Sophronia Horsefield {)f ffacken- bush, N . .J., thinks Wesleyan house pa..rties week- ends are more fun \than a barrel of mon lceys.\ Miss Hackenbush, who is thirty four (arouncl the waist) was a blind date, and is a hostess at Gt~.ant's 'Tomb. We wonder if Miss Horsefield has evel.\ l>een in a barrel full of monkeys, or is she tr;ying to dl'aw an analogy with the goings-on in Grant's T'ol!lb. * * ;) Secondly, the set-up of the Idol Board is fat· from ideal. There are no sophomore or freshman mem- bers being trained. for future yeat·s.• To make matters worse, campus deals often temove promis- ing junior·s from the staff. To be \ut e, the JH esent members have been sincere in their work and have done their best, 'but six of the ten were entirely unconnected with the editorial policies of the Idol la:>t year. How can the magazine be expected .to be anything but mediocre? Nor is this particular situation entirely singular this cur- rent year. My thin! answer dea.ls with that bugaboo, the Publications Board, · sister to om· great monstrosity, the Student Council. Now, Dr. Johnson seems to think that the Idol is dead. I p1esume he means that it is ill. Well, a wise parent always takes care of its sick offspring, and it so happens that the Idol child is a direct descendent of the Publica- tions Board- It seems to me that, if the Idol is so bad, it is up to the parent organization to find out why this is. But. no such luck; alas, the members or the Publications Board are labo!'ing under the same delu- sions as those of the Student Coun- cil. They have been appointed or elected to their positions; they mw;t do a few perfunctory tasks and then sit back to bask in the glory of their honoTS. I feel that the solution of the Idol problem lies at the feet of the decrepit Pub- ncations Board. They probably won't do anything about it except throw out the p1esent junior boa1d of the Idol in May and insert an entirely new and unfamiliar group. Of course, they may ask me to re- sign from the Idol Board, if they .ead this denunciation. No, my dear correspondents, all the criticisms pronounced against the Idol will not change conditions in the least. You and I and the rest of the campus are too indiffer- ent and indolent to even attempt to rectify the roots of the evils. After all, we still have the same old Stu- . dent Council. Idly yours, From our friend columnist, Walter Winchell, we hear that \college boys, with a dollar in their jeans, watch the Saturday noon par·ade through the Wal· dorf Lobby, trying to look like Noel Coward on a leave of absence.\ And according to one: of the col- lege students in the crowd, Mr. Winchell, \veni vitli, vici.'' William E. Endicott. •Editor's Note: The article on The Idol In the constitution of The Pub- lications Board reads; \The editors shall comist of an editor-in-chief and as many associate editors as this board shall deem necessary.\ It remains for the editors to recom- mend assistants and associates. • • • According to Dr. Johnson of New Yo!\]( Vermont, and the English Department, \I shoulcl think that the Idol would profit by it (the prize offered for ma- terial) more than anyone else-unless it. is so dead that it cannot be killed any deadel'.\ My, my, Dr. Johnson, the Idol is certainly quite dead. * * .. * • lliORE TOWELS To the Editor: May I take this means of ex- pressing displeasure with a policy now being pursued by the college athletic office, a policy so trivial from outward appearances but one, nevertheless, wplch leaves a bad taste. As far as I can recollect, the number of towels allotted a member of the Union swimming team or the amount distributed to the opposing team is definitely restricted. The present number d<>es not suffic·e .. The department should be more forward In the number given out. A remedy, as suggested by the NSFA bulletin, would be to have the Student Coun- We have finally discovered why we tll.re g'()iil.g to college. According to the Concordy's. editorial in the last issue, which received inspiration from Dean Brown's chapel speech, the only answer to that dis- turbing question is tha.t we come to ,college \because we do exist, and have built up a tJet ,G>f i:raditions and customs which we hope will be carried on, We don't know why.\ So we leave you with that thought, and as the professor of classical studies once said to the head of the news bcrreau, \take home and brood\ over the one sma.ll word. so large. in significance: \why?\ Why bro<>d? Jable What remedy can be made? Ex- actly this. The department should follow the policy of Williams Coi- J~ge and. R. F. I., for ~xample, of For years Bell TeleFhone engineers have been making exhaustive studies of solar data from observatories all over thewo:rld. They're learning h()W and why periBdic sun spots affect radio telephony. And are applying their findings to give you still better trans-oceanic and ship-to-shore service. Good evidence that telephone engineers will go to great lengths to make your telephone service more dependable, far-reaching and valuable.

has as- pen- stands. for t•eli- around ts di- s~ffers re some of the Bible introduced Jiter·ature have ·been of that is im- by sus- rather extreme generally adm:inls- least have it. very relig- its own it scare-arow Lewis, '41 of last be that the has de- Johnson I did not did not discus- a dis- of attaining desire- eX:pon- in his The rat. the Idol, I Mail col- of the Idol Person- further com- issue ap- eighteenth we'll have need Saracens on Hale target. This by an 4) shave plying go to more Quintet To Play Hamilton, Rochester This Weekend THE GONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1938 Frosh Basketball Team Death of Daley End's Long Career Faces Albany Academy Of Servlce To Union :i:n Many Fields Still smarting from recent defeat by Nott Terrace High the yearling basketball sQuad has resumed prac- This weekend was the time sched- tice in preparation for their contest uled for George Daley's visit to his 10:00 a. m.--Daily Assembly ad- with Albany Academy tomorrow college to serve it In l:tis capacity: dress t.o Student Body . Revived Garnet Five Faces Strong Continental Team Tonight; Drop Close Game to Columbia 38-21 · night. This will be the next to the as Honorary Fellow in Athletic 10 :31). -12:00-Informal conference last game of the year for the frosh Sports. It would not have been his in Pr,ofessor Wittner's office. quintet who to date have not lived, only visit of the year fer it was :!:30'5:30-\Athletic Clinic\ for up to their advance notices. The his custom to attend his frater- coaches, managers·, and captains in 1ecord thus far is three defeats and nity's initiation and to participate gymnasium. As Watson and Can Lead Scm·m·s The Union varsity lJ.Uintet will swing into action in two home contests this weekend when they encounter Hamilton tonight and Rochester tomorrow nig-ht. With two of Coach Nitchman's predicted :fom· victories undet· their belts and a remarkably strong showing· against Columbia Tuesday night which they dropped 38~31 the courtme11 will enter these con- vests in their best condition ()f the yea.r. one victory. in the annual Block lJ dinner. How- 7:00-·Frosh basketball game with The tentative starting lineup ever, the program 'he had planned Albany- Academy. which Coach Nltchman has been for this visit is typical of trio un- 8:00--Varsity basketball with Uni- working in practice sessions con- , tiring devotion and service lv his versity of Rochester in gym. sists of Bill Ford and Jack Vannier, college. The program follows. As President Fox declared in forwards; Adam Ciesinski, center; Friday, February 11 spea.Jting of Mr. Daley's death, and Jack Canfield and M ickey . \. . . he was a strong influence in · 3:30--Conference with President Rathlev, guards. The second team Union College and that influence consisted of Dave Tiedman and Fox. will continue.\ The annual Block Alex Turchick, forwards; Gordon 4:00-Conference with Dr. Ben- U d-inner· was his idea and it was . Semerad, center·, and Howard Matt. nett and William Haw:kes, chairman his jni tiative in securing speakers Both Hamilton and Rochester are~·-~~~---------------- 1 u d' · d h and Mo Weinbaub, guards. It is ex- of the Bloc{ mner committee. :lor the occasion that id muc to· among the strongest small' c~llege · S · d H . Wl ·mmerS t(!) Meet· pected that all of these men will see 4:30-Meeting with Tl!e concot·- insure its contmue success. e fives in the east and Coach Nitch- . · \bl f th t f f action in the game Satm day night diensis staff. wa.s re<>ponsi e or e rans er o man expects his team to be the d · , t t' f thl t· f R h t A h t R h which is a preliminary to the Union- 5 .·00-Conference Wl\tll heads of the a nun1s 1a Ion o a e ICS rom .underdog in both games, DC SS er m e t d t itt t th defeated Union by a '59-28 score in . · • . ,rs ' OC es er Rochester meeting. GlPe Club and other musical organ- the stu ent ax comm ee 0 e I d · R' h , 1 ·zati'ons. college TI•ustees. And in Ms capa- an -earlier game P aye 1n oc es- --- I I city as chairman of the undergrad- ter. Since that time they have 5:30-Conference with Mounte- uate affairs committee of the Grad- been defeated only by M:ichigan Sabrina Natatol'S Reputedly • INTRAMURAL$ bank's officers. uate council he made many friends and Hamilton, Are Strongest Foes ''-==============='.! 6:00--Dinner in Hale House with in the college and in Schenectady The Continentals are enjoying - alumni of Union and Ha:milton Col- as well. All the members of The their strongest season in many Of Year Boxing and Wrestling leges. Concordiensis staff have at one time years. They dropped a close game· 7 : 3 0-Swimrning meet with Ani , or ane>ther had the pt'ivelege of to Colgate by three ·points and de- --- Thus far the dally attendance at herst in Foote Pool. meeting and joining in informal clis- feated Rochester by three points. By JOE ANNESE the daily sessions in the boxing and S:OO--BasketbaJl game with Ham- cussion with Mr. Daley. They found Tommy Pugh, dlminuitive forward, After losing two hard fought wrestling classes which are being ilton in Alumni Gym. him eager to offer advice, or to help has returned to Clinton after a meets to R. P. I. and Syracuse the conducted under the direction of Saturday, Feb. 12 in any other way that he could. semester's absence and with Myron Union College swimming team will Mr. Fitz and Mr. Ketz makes it Carmer, the football captain, leads endeavor to •break their long losing doubtful whether the annual Box- ,the Buff and Blue offense. Towner, streak this weekend when they en- ing and Wsertling tournament Will Riddleburger, and Sulliv=, also counter Amherst tonight in Foote be staged. Because of this, the f(}()tball players are on the squad. Pool rut 7 : 30 p. m. and travel to Physical Education Department re- Union defeated Hamilton Iast sea- Rochester tomorrow to meet a quests all entrants to submit their son 41-34. strong Yellowjacket team. entry blanks not 1ater than Wed- Stone 0 0 01 Case Rathbun 3 0 6\Can·ol! Ralston 5 0 10 Dwyer Rifenhary 4 0 8 Malkan Hutcllin\ ---1 17 0 34i 2 0 4 0 0 0 ! 1 3 0 0 0 4 2 10 lfl 3 ~~ Union's lineup will .probably be Amherst with only one defeat to nesday, February 16. The number of ·sthuech saamfase t ag~:~tga~~~c~o?,;~~~ date is reputedly the strongest ~~fJ\~sg r~~e~~~d t:~~n~ye:e~fei~see thd~ I•'L~ba.,nDb-da <:lti* • team Union will meet this season. lJ~IUt Phi F l'()Sh Pucksters Play The :F-reshmen hockey team will conclude its season tomorrow aft- ernoon at 2 o'clock when it en- gages Ute Albany Academy club on two nights ago and which gives As in the past Union will be hand!- not enter until you are positive AlpJ 1 a (46) 1 Coach Nitchman high hopes of capped hy lack of consistent per- that you will compete. O'Brien 6 0 12 Imrie building a strong aggregaticm next formers to take the second and The prnhahle boxing weight dasse• Parry 0 0 0 Parlter year around that nucleus. will ·be: Thomns 3 0 6 Burlce Coach Al ·exander· of Rochester third plac~s necessary for a well Bantamweight. up to and inrluding Riley 0 0 o Squire rounded team. 125 p·ounds. Williamson 5 0 10 Walllnldge has a sterling offensive outfit with Featherweigt, up to and including McManus 0 0 0 Hinckle a fast attach headed by Spies and Men Show Willingness 135 pounds. Adams 3 0 6, (!I) 1 1 0 2 0 1 the college rink. The yearlings have alreadr dropped an earlier 6-0 de- a 2 cision to the Academy boys and 1 3 despite improved performances 3 ~ since tJ:tat drubbing, are accorded o o small ehance of turning the tables. O 2 The possible absence of Goalie Lane, rangy forwards. The entire For the past week the tankmen Lightweight, up to ani! including 145 Schattan 0 1 1~ t · 1 . f th y 11 pounds. Ha'erstrom_5 _1 _11 first s rm:g meup o e e ow- have drilled with added zest inas- Welterweight. up to and inc·luding jackets will have an advantage in much as a victory would give the 155 pmmds. 22 2 46, height over the Union team. Mee, Garnet their first victory in three MiddlewPight, up to nnd including • • • Roberts, and Ulreck are the other years. The men have shown such. 165 pnunrls. UapiTa Signta (20)/ N eutrnls (19) ll 'kely starters for the RI'vermen. th . d 'JJ' t Light-heavyweight, up to and inclurl- Morrison 2 o 4 Coloby s 0 6 en us1asm an WI mgness o co- iug 175 pound:;. Carr 3 1 7\ SFLidel o o o The Yellowjackets dropped a operate in their effort to develop a Heavyweight. ovey 175 pounds. . Stillman 1 1 3 Smiti:t.,J. 1 2 4 32-29 decision to Hamilton earlier stronger squad that Coach Joe .The prnhcthle we1cht' fnr wrestling I Hansou r. 1 131Swart ., 0 1 in the year. In this game Myron Wheatley- may ente1· Brittin, Passe, will be: C:allrrghan 1 0 2 Patrie 0 0 0 Carmer and Pugh combined to give and Rheinhardt in three events Bantamweight, up tn and !nPiuding - LeTarte 1 0 2 125 pounds.. , . . lJohnson,W. 0 0 0 Hamilton the laurel wreath while each. Captain Gordon may lead Featherweight, np to an<! mcludlllg 1 Barl.>ieri 1 1 3 Spies of Rochester led the scoring the team to the long awaited vic- 135 pounds. - - -- for both teams with thir!Petr points. tor'\ in his S]lecialty, the breast- Lightweight. up to and lnd\l(ling H5 1:1 3 2n 8 3 l!l t f \' pounrls. These men will provide pl<'ln y o stroke. Arnold has bettered the Welterweight, up 1 ,. and inducting :-.rorth College forfeited t~ Kaptla Nu. opposition for the revived Garnet college record in every meet this 158 pounds. Delta Chi forfeited to Psi Upsih:m. outfit. year and is ex:pected to do so again Middleweight, up to nn<l inc·luding These forfeits automatically elimi- t . ht 174 pounds. nate Delta Chi and :North College omg. · Light-heavyweight, up to antl inculd- from further competition. All their fu- Coach Wheatley has not yet def- ing 186 pounds, ture opponents will l:>e credited with a Rough Game 5 1 11 Dudley H.olmes from the lineup be- cause l:f illness will put the Garnet cubs at a disadvantage that will be aifficult to overcome. Coach Law- rence has indicated that in the event Holmes is unable to play he will probably start Jack Colson, re- serve wing, in the position. Colson had :some .ex pez ience in the nets be- fore entez·lng Union and played a forward position for the first time this year. Basketball!! Page Three OLD.UNION By BILL KETZ Frida.y, Febl'Uary 11th In 1928 the Garnet .began the sec- ond semester by succumbing to St, Law1•ence 43-18. Union had de- feated the Larries in the first game between the two institutions by a single point Ketchum and Killeen had been lost to the squad through ineligibility and Livingston and Peters. who had come up to the Varsity from Hal Wittner's Frosh squad were unable to fill their place. The Hockey squad aJso lost, In an earlier contest R. P. I. and Union had tied 4-4 .but in this match the Cherry and White were victors by the score of 3-0. In the first period Jack Beale, Union's star wingman was on the sidelines because of a broken skate and R. P. I. tallied ali its goals. In 1933 Union easily defeated the natators of Connecticut State College 48-28. Robert Oppenheim '34, set the present record for 40 yard splash of 19.6 seconds. The Medley Relay team of Neese, Schuman and Man~y also set the present record of :!:31. Bill Waldron toolc second in the high hurdles and Turner fourth in the high jump in the Al- bany Mercury Indoor Games. Pleasant Valley Meat Market • Home of Sunshine Meat Products • 586·592 BROADWAY Phone 4·3181-2·3·4 In a rough game that was marked by lose playing on the ]lart of both teams, the Dutchmen dropped an exciting contest to Columbia Tues- day night in New York. Ee1:b Wat- son and Lou Carr led the Union of- fens-ive and matched a taller Lion team point for point until the clos- ing minutes of play when shots by Anderson, Macioce, and O'Brien pulled the New Yorkers thr(lugh on top, initely decided who will start but it Heavyweight, over 186 pounds. viC\tGry. is probable that Bert Brittin will The elimination bouts will be held enter the 100 and 220 yard sprints, in the evening during the first Brittin will temporarily deser-t the weeks in March. Further notices re- 50 yard dash for the longer swims. garding the procedure of the tour- He has already set a new pool rec- nament will be given after the en- Read the The first half ended in a 17-17 deadlock but Columbia began to pull away shortly after the start o-f the second half and ran up a six point lead. O'Brien scored 1lrst with a field goai, and Rettano followed with a short shot on a set play a few seconds later. Herb Watson then sunk one from under the Lion's basket but the Garnet was never able to pass the Columbia outfit after that spurt. The game grew rougher towards the end 8.'3 the Clumbia offense was halted repeatdely by Unio-\Il in.ter- ceptions. Anderson and MaCioce scored b8.'31,ets in quick su.ccession giving the Lions a 34-23 lead a few minutes before the final whistle. Carr and Watson both hooped long set shots to pull Union witnin strik- ing distance but the sharp eye of Captain Johnny O'Brien of Colum- bia prevented any further danger- ous thrusts by Union. Ol'd in the 100 and will make his tries have been filed. debut over the furlong distance. Wheatley declared that Brittin is an extremely energetic swimmer and has a strong chance of setting a new college record in his new event. .Passe in Three Events Passe, another stellar sophomore free style!', wm be entered in the 50, 100, and 440 yard swims. Rheinhardt wm enter the 440 and relay in which latter event he will be teamed with Passe, Brittin and Teare. The nnal out-come of both meets may well depend on the div- ing evant and hence a great re- SJlOnsibility will fall on the shoul- ders of Harry Myers, Union's only performer in that event. A victory in either meet will depend on the team's ability in garnering enough seconds and thirds to support the work of Passe, Gordon, and Bl'ittln who to date have proven them- selves the only consistent winners on the squad. The pt·obable lineup will be: Medley relay-Gertz, Bob Miles and Dave Wilder Basketball \21\ The third round of each bracket must be completed on or before Saturday, February 19. Bowling Final standing\ for the Amerienn flow ling League: Team w. L. Delta Upsilon ................. 20 Lambda Chi Alpha ........... 15 Phi Gamma Delta .. .. .. .. .. .. 14 Psi Upsilon .. .. .. .. . .. .. . .. . .. 11 Alpha Delta Phi . .. .. .. .. .. • .. 9 Chi Psi ................ : ...... 8 Kappa Nu . . .. . .• • . .. . . .. . .. . • 4 KapJ)S. Alpha . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . 3 Basketball Results Feb. 7- 1 6 7 10 12 13 17 18 Sigma Phi (SS) \ i:l<mtll College !22) Bowie 8 0 16 Morelli 0 1 1 Diedrich A 0 1~ Wyman 1 1 3 Gregory u u lll Jo:nzer u ~ ~ l'allnn o 1 II !I a <liP~' 3 0 6 Wolfe 1 0 2~Annese 4 !O Wells 1 o. 2 16 1 33 8 6 22 * * .. Feb. 8- Alpltll Della 1 Tllet!t Delta Intmmural Easketball Schedule Feb. 12-1:15, Delta Upsilon vs. Beta Theta Pi; Chi Fsi vs. Sigma Chi; Phi Sigma KaJ;!pa vs. Phi Delta Theta; Alpha Phi Delta vs. Phi Sigma Delta. Feb. 14-7::!0, Sigma Phi vs. Neu- trals; 8:30, Delta Chi vs. Delta Phi. MAKE YOUR MEETING PlACE AT REUTER•s BOWLING ACAilEMY 148 Cliniou St. SCHENECTADY SUN l'he ONLY Local SUNDAY NEWSPAPER carrying Complete Accollnts of UNION'S SATURDAY GAMES 4 FULL PAGES Of sports in addition t<l nearly 80 other Topnotch Sunday Features ... 5e _ EVERYWHERE - Sc ... \\l::::.::m:::::::::::::m:::m::::m::::::::::::•:::::::::::m:::::::::::::::::::::::::m:::::mmm::::::::::::::::::mmmmmmW WANTED • • O'Brien WaS 1Pp scorer with four- teen .points while ::S:erb Watson led for Union with twelve points. Macioce of the visitors also had twelve. · 220-Bert Brittin, Ken Rheinhavdt 50-Chuclt Passe, Paul Teare Diving-Harry Myers Plli (34) I Chi (23) Shepard 5 0 !UI Garnett 3 0 6 I 597 Employees Summary: Columbia-- G Macioce, If • .. .. .. . . . . 6 Anderson, rf ... : .... , 2 Leggett, c . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Rafael, ............... 0 Retana, lg . , . . . . . . . . • 4 Naylor ............... 0 O'Brien, rg ....... , . • 6 Totals ............. 18 Union- G Carr, If ..•........... 6 Wafuon, rf . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Smith, c .........•.•. 2 Schultz, lg .... , . . • • • • 2 Tanner ....... ,, • • . • . • • 0 Buchanan, rg . . . . • . . . 0 Miller ................ 0 Totals .............. 15 F 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 :F 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 NATIONAL LEAGUE Final Standings p 12 4 0 0 8 0 14 38 p 10 12 5 4 0' 0 0 31 Theta Delta Chi .............. 16 5 Phi Delta. Theta • ,. . .. . .. . .. .. 16 6 1tl0-Chuck Passe, Bert Brittin Bacltstroke-Bob Miles Breaststxoke-Arnold Gordon, Jaclt Wright 440-Chuck Passe, Ken Rheinhardt Relay--:Passe, Rheinhardt, BI·ittin and Teare DeWitt's Lunch Room and Tap Room We Serve Better Food f()r Better Health 118-120 JAY ST. ()pp. New City Hall ALL LATEST NEW and USED RECORDS Also Automatic Phonographs For Rent By Day or Week Columbia Novelty Co. 406 Smith St. GAZETTE Phi Sigma Delta. .............. 14 7 Sigma Phi . .. .. .. . • . .. .. . .. .. 13 8 - Beta. Theta Pi .. . .. • .. • .. .. . .. 13 8 PRESS K~~;ppa Sigma. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. 6 15 Delta Phi .. • .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. 6 15 Si.gma. Chi ............... , .. .. 0 21 'f'he finals in the bowlln;g will be played next week to determine the. team championship, Delta Upsilon wni meet .the wiruier of the Theta ]jett-Phl D~lt playoff .in a three g11me matcl;).. for the championship, .A cup will be awarded thEi winner, Printing During the past year, the Albany Business College Employment Department received beter than two cails each business day for trained oHice employees • . , -for full-time permanent positions. ••. And ma11y of these opportullities went unfilled fori ack of trained ABC graduates. The demand for men and women with university training has been particularly keen. Immediate application is neces~;ary. For full information, address the Director of Ad- missions, or call at tne College Hall. Junior- Courses Private Secretarial Shorthand Reporting Bookkeeping Shorthand February 21, Mard 7 Senior Courses Business Administration Executive Secretarial Sales Management Accounting February 21, only MID·'WINTER OPENING CLASSES Send t-lOW for illustrated bulletins ALBANY BUSINESS COLLEGE 126-134 Washingto11 Ave. Albany, N. Y.

Page Four Dean's List Decline o/35 N~mes Over Fr»rmer List A marked drop in number of 35 students was .recorded when .the Dean's List for high scholarship was announced today by Dean Charles F. F. Garis for the second marking period endi.ng February 1. A total of 232 students were cited for high scholastic ac:hlevement as compared to the year's first list of 267 students in November. Senior and junior classes ran close together with :the most no- ticea·ble declines, the seniors plac- ing 76 students on th-e current rat- ing in comparison t10 the former number of 91, while the juniors had 55 of the class incltaded· today in comparison to the 0old list of 70. The sophomore and freshman classes also experhenced slight drops, a decrease of three from .the sophomore total of 49t -and a lessen- ing of two from the :freshman sum of 52 students. Class of L938 Bachelor of Arts: H. Laurence Achilles, Jr., Harold• B. Ackerman. Jr., Edmond R. Arundell, John R. Bergstrom, Thomas H. Blaisdell, Carl B. Booth, Vll:mar K. Bose. Jack C. Bowie, Johzn W. Britten, DeWitt Brown. Donadd W. Buchan- THE CONC()R:DIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1938 The Cider Mill ne~.s in Physics: Everett M. H:af-l:li II Class of 1941 i j M 0 T I 0 N . Bacltelor of A1-ts: T~istram C:of-.:.1~=============d! (Continued from Page 2) fin, Jr., Albert A. DaVIS, III., ·ViJil- ~ . Ham L. Ford, Robert W. Frelioek,, Be advtsed that International Associated P1•ess story which ap- Boyd E. Golder, Ernest C. Gl'a.ilt., ·E\iettlement deals with the Sino- peared in a recent issue of the Manuel Green, John D; Haigh,i:Japanese squabble with the utmost Schenectady Union-Star. The gi!irt'' William B. T. Hastings, Geor·ge W .: rnu.gwumpery. The p!>oducers have of it was as follows: Hemstead, II., Robert S. Iierm:an,,·carefully avoided any ·expression of George D. Holmes, John P. Lewis , sympathy with either side by using \Grocery costs have dropped since Kenneth E. Mackenzie, Leona 1 :d c: -s:he Shanghai air attack as a back- Fall from the highest level in :six Mackenzie, Jr., Raymond F. Male, ground for some sensual sentiment, years to the •lowest point in morE R0ger· D. Marshall, Albert N. :Me-• !1~il·breadth heroics and intramural tban 19 months; a survey of food · Cartney, Gordon H. Parke!', Rober-t' jntrigue. Probably that was the wis- prices in wholesale and ~etail mar- A. Quinn, Mortimer Robins John' -Est course to adopt, and we're will- kets disclosed. Meat .prices led the A. Ru:;zkowskl, Robert T. S~mmet, ing to fmgive them on that ground. decline, but most vegetables, fruits· Laskar Schwartz, Gordon J·. Setn-. Bat, when they use Chinese and &.nd dinnei· staples such a~ sugar,. erad, John W. Senn, James ~. JaJJS indiscriminately to represent potatoes, eggs, butter and lard' :als<J Shaw, Irving J. Shoor, James W .. Ch.inese coolies, and when they build were '!'ower.\ Wholesale meat prices s · h · h 1 have dropped from nine to 50% for m1th, Hyman Su.garman, Mitton' '· elr w 0 e air taid around a se- aU cuts, since September. Whole· H. Sugarman, David V. Tiedeman, nes of fou·r or five newsreel shots, sale butter is 16% lower thatl in De- Alexander Turchick, James 1!::. repeated constantly -then, Joe, we Twining, Jr., Morris Weintraub. malte bold to object. lf all the news-. cember. Eggs are 52 % below No- BS in Civil Engin~Ning: John F. tPels of the bombing of .Shanghai vember highs. Potatoes have drop- Canfield, Henry L. Crosby, Jr., Paul' were laid end to end, they might . ped 5(}% since summer. Other com- V. Mara. haw made something exciting out moilities, with almost no exception, BS in Electrical Engineering::\ of the disaster. As the picture have followed the downwai·d trend. Cecil E. Angell, Edwin R. Bartlett,· stands, it's just an. easy way to At the beginning of this school Comad E. Bechard, George s. waste an hour and ten minutes. year, because of the high .pr.ices Becker, Jack w. Danser, John, E. In the cast are June Lang and then prevailing, the cost of eating Greaney, Robert r. Reed, Robel\l T. ·Dolores Del Rio, a couple of beau- ·at Hale House was raised one dollar Ross, Russel L. Uphoff, Philip R. Hful bodies wl'lo can't act; George a week over the amount which pre- Westlake. Se.nd.ers, Dick Baldwin, John Car- vailed last year. This was for BS in Chemistry: Edward N. 1a.dine, Harold Huber, Leon Ames, -boarders; the :boost in a la carte Case, Richard Hildt:eth, Robert. w. Keye Luke and 231 extras. prices for guests was evep. greater•. Hubday. The huge Mr. Sanders still makes Inasmuch as the .printed policy ()f BS in Pbyslcs: R. Gordon Goul-d; a much better villain than hero. the Hale House management is to ---o----- * * * LIBRARY Vaudeville: This makes three good shows we've had this year. Among the many new b~o}{s \The one with Luis Russel's arches- which were put into circulation tr-a was number one: the snow with in th~ library la\t week-end are hou Costello was number two; this the folluwing: is number three. No:vels: True, Acts 1 and {i resemble each Laughter in the West-L. A. G. other closely, but both are very well Strong. d-one. Nora Williams is passable. Cardinal of the Medici - Hicks 1 Aarons and Glancz, ping-pong Bf'ach; memoil·s of the mother of l.rbarnpions, present a very interest- Cardinal Ippolito de Medici. ing display of their wares. tin view Block Forest- -Historical novel of c>f the fancy didoes cut during the the Col<Jnial Northweet Territory. match, we take it that the whole Brother Petroc's Return. thing was done in the spirit of fun.) Imperial City-Elmer Rice. And Henry Armetta .shows sound Tortilla Flat-John Steinber:lt. judgment by concentrating his ef- The En4'my Gods-Modern Amer- forts upon a little skit, instead of ica and the Navajo Indians. ~g-oing into the usual song and dance The Garden of Adonis-Caroline. about \what I did when I was In Gordon. Hollywood.\ Henry looks, we might Verse: add, for the benefit of the pre-med Poems-Louis MacNeice. trade, as if he isn't feeling very On This Jsland-W. H. Auden. pert. He1: Lette;-Bret Harte. ATTENTION!!! Next Tuesday OthE'l Prose. evening, the Rivoli is presenting It vary prices according to wholesale commodity costs at any particular period, this increase was justifi<!il. But now the situation has changed-definitely, as the above figures show. Well then, in accord- ance with the above mentioned .pol- icy has there been a reductio-n in prices at Union's \non-profit lllak- ing\ commons? No, Rollo. Have tlle prices in down-town capitalistic restaurants been reduced? Yes, Rollo. Are Hale House prices higher than those in such compar- able eateries as the Waldorf or Mmry's? Again, Rollo, but yes. Is · the food better? Need I answer? Is there a darky in the woodpile, something rotten in Denmark, dis- · satisfaction and irritation (voiced) among the student body? Once and· for all, Rollo, you irritating 1brat, yes, yes, yes. Now run along and maybe the manager of Hale Bouse will give you a ride in his new Lincoln. H. M. S. · CALENDAR Tonlg-llt 7i30 p. m.-Swlroming. Unio11 vs. Amherst, Foote Memorial pool. 8:00 p. m.-Varsity BasketbaB, Union vs. Hamilton, Alumni Gym. 8:15 p. m.-Siglna Xi. Meeting, Old Chapel. Spelliker, pean R. S. Cunningham, Albany Med\ leal College. Preceded by dinner at Ha:le House, 6:25 p.m. Satur<lay 10:00 a. m. -Dally Assembly, Speaker, Rt. Rev. Msgr. John L. ReHly, Rector, Chur·ch uf St. John the E-vangelist. Varsity Swimroing. Union vs. Rochester, at Rochester. 7:00· p. m.-F1·eshman Basket- ball. Union vs. Albany Acad- emy, Alumni Gym. 8:00 p. m.-Varsity Basketball. Union vs. Rochester, Alumni Gym. Swtday '11:00 a. m. -- Sunday Service. Preacher, Re-v. Thomas h. Harris, Rector- Church of St. Luke 4> and '['he Epiphany, Memorial Cha]Jel. 4:00 p. m.-Organ Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidrnarsh, Memo1·ial Chapel. Mono:lay 4:00 p. m. - Public Speaking· Class, Old Chapel. 6:00 p. m.-Placement Discus- sion for Seniors with Mr. P. W. Boynton. Dinner meetin14 at Beta Theta Pi House. PEARSON'S I 08 Nott Terrace L SODAS - CANDY s TT E u MAGAZINES R N C PAPERS - ICE CREAM v E H CIGARETIES Il PATRONIZE THE BOOK STORE ·:They Advertise! ·, DORM ROOM FOR. RENT Middle Section of North C()llell'e Room 14 Fo1· Second Se1nester CALL 4-8325 MILK SO RICH YOU CANWHIP THE CREAM Produced Under Strict Laboratory C<Jntrol For Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. an, Julius Bundgus, Jr., Joseph R. Cafarella, John Ceboula, Benjamin Cohen, Victor Coh-en. Lionel B. Coloby, Robert C. DEnzler, John F. Donahoe, Edson V. ;S, Dr·aper, An- drew Dry burgh, Wi 1liam E. Endi- cott, Hyman A. En:zer, Robert H. Ferguson, Donald P. Ford, Paul M. Goldberg, Willard L. Hagadorn, Jr., Henry D. Hartmann, Horace N. Holbrook, Charles B. Honiltcl, Don- ald 0. Hotaling, Chat·les H. House, Jr .. Elmer T. Johnson, Harrison M. Karp, John J. !Celley, Herman Kessler, Stanley KCtllin, Wesley E. Leonard. Willard I ... Male, Joseph J. McNeil. J.V1aivin M. Miller. MPl- vin I. :\iuroff. John C. Nott. Ber- nard Olender. Andr-ew W. Pasich- nyk, Norman N. Pomerantz, Arnold 0. Riley, Thomas J. Schermerhorn, George T. Scott, HEnry M. Seider, Alfred R. Seigle, Robert B. Shep- ard, Jr., Robert G. Smith. Jerome Spellman. Henry .M. Stephenson, William E. Swanson. Carl R. Trah- ma,n, Russell Trudell, John W. Van Laak, Martin Vise usi, Elwood G. Weisenburn, Charles C. Wiberley, Edward Wickert, Jr:-., John S. Wold. From Th~se R.oots - Mar-y M - Happened One Night. There are c;olum; . a discussiOn of tren.<fs in· still people who haven't seen this, htc1 atm e. ! and if they wish not to remain still .The Saga o_f American Socllet~-! fol' the rest of their lives, they'd Dtxon ~e~te1. _ . 'better a1range to trek up Union Amenca s 60 Famdif's-Fet ciinand: Street on the 15th of the month to flf SHS WHO BUYS WHAT TOBACCO BS in Civil Englneet•ing: Willard W. Dean, Clyde B:. Marshall, Jr .. Jame~ F. ::\1organ. Jr.. Ralph S. Peat·se. Pr 1 d to Ch . t J 1 ~mp1ove t etr minds. J. M. Lundberg. . 1 ' - h . e u e emis ry - o 1n ~;:;;:;;;;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;;; Read; an outline of alchemy. . i 1 Art and the Machine-Sbel><:lon , BS in Eledrital Engineering: Joseph T. BradbuL·y, Richard Ko- varic, Cromwell Mcintosh, Jr., Joseph Paul. and Martha Cheney; the infrue.ncE. For Houso Linen Service BS in Ch .. mistr;y: William J. of industry in modern art and deo-~ sign, evidences of functi<Jnal ar<!hi- tecture, with excellent plates. 1 You Have Seen Their F:nces- Erskine Caldwell; a collection O»fl realistic photographs showlmg lh. e sordid living conditions oj th. e tenant farmers in the south. I PHONE 4-3166 AMERICAN COAT I APRON & LAUNDRY COMPANY Jacober, Jr., Matth.ew W. Wilson. BS in Physics: J. Robc>rt Doig. Jr., Louis C. Mapl-es. Class ot' 1939 Bachelor of ArMs: Clayton H. Adams, Lon H. Ba.rringer, Bernard F. Carroll, Harlan G. Carson, Joseph Clifford, Dominick DeLisa, David Falk, Arby .A. Halpern, John J. Hardiman, George P. Hart, II., Robert L. Hayner, Fredrick W. Hequembourg, Pa'Ul S. Humphrey, Bernard S. Krause, Melvin D. Lav- ender, Max Len, Stanley R. Lieb- man, Stanley L.uke, David B. Miller, John J. Morrison, Jr., Hans Munzer, Anthony VI. Nardacci, Irv- ing J. Nelick, Lomis E. Page, Jr., Feori F. Pipito, Benjamin Rath- bun, Jr., Myer RIEs, Frank Saidel, Bernard A. ShaJlero, W. Tillar Shugg, Jerome S:mith, Hubert A. Squire, T. Douglss 0. Stevenson, Edward D. Thorn son, Kenneth B. VandeMru·k, Har·ry G. Walling, Robert C. Walter-, Jr.. Robert C. Warner, G. Tome;:r C. Way. David L. Yunich, Irving :Zweig. BS in Civil EngiiilP.P.ring: Douglas K. Blue. Philip D\Uchscherei\, Sum\ ner B. Irish, Fred. Townsend. BS in Elecb'leal Engineerhtg: William Hodges, Edwin J. Jackson, Reuben Merchant, William T. Thomas, A. Willla.m White. BS in Chemist1~r: David W. God- frey, Renata C. Pom.atti, Louis Werthma:n, Herbe:rt F. Zuhr. BS in Physics: Frank L. Moore, Jr. Cla.ss O»f. 1940 Bachelot• of A1ts: Joseph J. An- nese. James P. Barford, Ernest W. Bode.nstab, Burdick H. Brittin, Merlm L. Bruckilnyer, LaRue G. Buchanan, Quinlin P. Cole. Alex- ander H. Cornell, Leo J. Dwyer Robert R. EisneL·, Adieth W. Ep~ stein, Christophe:r M, Fahy, Ed- ward f'>· Fitz, Jr.. Franltlyn P. Fredenck, Stanle:y B. Gertz, Don- ald C. Glenn, Z~·gmunt P. Gta- bicki, Clare W. Graves, Albert H. Halavin, Paul C_ Hayner, Marvin P. Lazarus, Lawrence V. Pelleltier, J1· .. Jacob Rabin<Dwitz, Thomas H. Ralston, Marvin Rosen, Edgar A. Sandman, William H. Schwab Harry G. Sillecll:::, Jr., Isadore M: Sorltin, Hudson H. Tanner, Wil- liam C. Taylor, William S. Tosh, Matthew S. Tyb()oi'OWSki, Rocco H. Urbano, Edward H. Wittemeier. BS in Civil Eitgineering: Lewis W. Hallenbeck. BS in Elooti•ica.l Engineering: Charles E. Broekner, Donald P. Campbell, Fra.nc:is D1migan, Jr., Charles H. Guiles, John A. Kilcoin, Jr.. Alden F. Mtt llins. BS in Chemlstr:;v: Alfred H. Case, Warren DeSorbo, Walter A. Fallon, Jr., Edward R. I~ane, Sherman W. Parry, Edward T ajkowski. I 030 Barrett St. Spectator Changes Ma~eltfJ 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~ i Beginning with the Febr'l!a~·y 2nd issue, the Columbia Spec- tator inaugurated a new form..at in the publication of Its daily paper. This innovation is in kee}ling with the trend whi<!h the newspaper began in co liege journalism six years ago and which startled many <Jther ciOI- legiate editors into a fmy for new styles in make-up. The new headlines will adopt tlte •• ftu:sh left\ style, coming into increas- ing use throughout the coun- try. The moll1; rE!cent .ado:ption of this .style has been made by a New York newspaJler. : THE ELITE TAILOR 516 Union St. TUXEDOS FOR RENT EXPERT TAILORING GUERRA. PHARMACY DRUGS, PRE8.()11:JPTIONS, SUNDRIES WE SERVE SAND'WieEIE:S AND LIGHT LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 29c Phone 2-9419 600 Union St. cor. Barrett CLOVERLJ\NI) CREAMERY Phoue 6-81 04 633 State St. Thru to Nett Terrac:e FOR PROJM PT SERVICE 919 State St. PHONE 6-3456 Schenec:taciJ EngravinfJ Co. 147 .JAY ST. ENGRA \ER.S FOR THE CO~CORDIENSIS • Like so many other independent experts, Bill Whitley, Tobacco Aa(tiolleer of Henderson, N.C., smokes LacAies W ILLIAM D. (BILL) WHITLEY sold over 15 million pounds of tobacco last year. It's easy to see that he's an expert who knows tobacco. So it's important to you when he sa,ys ... \At 14 different markets in Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Kentucky, I've seen Luckies buy th.e best tobacco. I figure it's good tobacco that makes a good srnoke. So my own cigarette is Lucky Strike! \I've noticed, too, that independent buyers, not connected with any cigarette manufacturer, smoke Luckies more than any other brand.\ Mr. Whitley is correct. For swem records show that, among independent tobacco ex- perts, Luck:ies have twice as many exclu- sive smokers as have all other cigarettes put together. Remember: The men who know tobacco best smoke Luckies 2 ~ 1. HAVE YOU HEARD \TiiE CliANT OF THE TOBACCO AUCTICl!IIEER\ ON THE RADI()? When you do, remember that Luckie~ use the flnest tcba<::co. And also that tlte\Toastlng\ process removes certain harsh irritants found·in !!!!·tobacco, Sit Luckies aro kind to your throat, ~fi)Ofll ;,• rtoiJJ f~e~rls ;,fl 1/lflf··· WITH MEN WHO KNOW TOBACCO BEST·II'S LUCKIES 2 TO I ·• • ' ~c l I d 0 I< f· c s b C1 \ t: c t c ( j (

RE RENT of Control 121 Corp. over 15 It's ... \At ky, I've it's my buyers, brand.\ ex- exclu- know OF Luckie;; that certain ·• Commitiete SugtJ,eds Stu~elll't Reo,rganizaafion z: 511 I • • ts Chorister To Leave for Gotham Vol. LXI., Nt0. 33 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS ~Choriste:rs Leave lf.lrving Olds Gives GraphieAccount Life of Rom.eyn For !!()~ham Friday 0 f Pre~ent Day Japanese Paintings. Will Be Revealed To Give Concerts _ @> .. On Founder's Day Stay at. Plymouth To() most people the study of .!Ta.:p- Japan garnered fl-om his study and ane:se .prints :has only aesthetic in- his pe 1 sonal experience. 'terest but to H. It•ving Olds, ¥isit- · Mr. Olds ventm·ed that it is only 'ing I,chabod Spencer Foundation the Japanese stoicisim and loyalty· lect-urer who- will .address the stu- to the emperor which. prevents H . •ave Big. N io-ht in New' den-t l:lOdy in. the Old. Chapel to- them. from revolting against the 0 nigh~ the study has vast sacial and NJ.le of the militar-y caste under York A.ft-er Appearing Philosophical implications. wbich they are suf'fering severe pri- A J • H\ h T::hese impli-<!ations are not to be vation. t ~IIl&ICa Ig derhe.d by a{!asual association with Wbile in most \Western countl'ies Two conc-erLs, followed by two dances, and .a ra<iio broadcast, ate on the schednl e <>f the Union Col- lege Glee Ch.lb which leave11 Friday for its annual New York City con- cert. Via New Yor l\, the choristers will stop at Janutic:a, to give a concert before the Jamaica High School stu- dents. Follovlng this concert they will be guesl8 at a dance held in their honor. tlle prints hut are evident only after the rise of commet•ce and indusby intil!lla.te knmvledge of Japanese his- was marged by U:1e rise of a new tm)\' a.nd cust.<Jms. Mr. Olds repre- bourgeois class which gradually sent:s the third generation of an gained power from the landed Am>Eri-<!an missionary family who al\istocr acy, in Japan the feudal has spent ma..ny decades in Japan. lords merely tr:an..sferred their: en- He Uved in .Japan for the first 12 terprise from a.griculture to indus- yea:l's of his 1 ife and after his edu- try and consolidated their power. call {)n in the United States return- A separate commercial class did ed and took up school teaching ar-ise and the .fapanese Diet, a the!:'e. In 1921J he taught conversa- governmental representative body tioll!:ai English in two commercial is the lords' ackn~wledgement that schooLs, one ·government school and. such. a class dQe.s exist but it is one >Buddhist school in Tol•io. without real influence in the na- T11e .Tapanese prints, says Mr. lion's polity. Tlle caste system of Olds, mino1· life as it was before hereditary ·bureaucracy prevails and the restmation and before Japan it is forcing its imperial program waS' opened up to western corn- on an unwilling . .fapan. Lewis B. Sebring '23 to Pre- sent Verbal Picture of Union's Fcnnder Plans for the celebration of Founders' Day on Friday, February 25, are practically complete. The students, faculty, friends of the college, and alumni will be given an illuminated picture of tl)e life in the United States, and particu- larly in this region, at the time when Union College was chartered 143 years ago. Lewis B. Sebring, Jr., '23, night city editor of the New York Herald Tribune, assisted by his father, Lewis B. Sebring, '92, has com- pleted a 228 page (single spaced, typewritten) manuscript which pre- sents the results of a year's inten- sive ,biographical research into the Hfe of l>irck Romeyn, the leader in the founding of Union College, but who has been more or less a \mys- tery\ to the present generation. JJlrs Pedigrew Donates W. C. '1'. U • .Scholarship Monday, Feb. H--The W. C. T. U. Schola1ship of $100 for a deserving· student at Union Col- lege who neither drinks nor smokes wa.s announced in a telephone statement to The Concm diensis this afternoon by Mrs. Henry Pecligrew of 1104 Lenox Road. \We are very anxious to do ~>omething as soon as possible for some worthy young man, and would apprec1ate 1t vel·y much if you would ha.ve all ap- plicants communicate with me unmediately.\ All stuaents wishing to apply for thts senolar ship snould com- municate with The \..oncordten- sis at their earliest con vemence. 'l'he only dlniculties are that the city directory ltsts no Mrs. Pedigrew, there is no 1104 Lenox .Koad, and the W. C. T. U. knows notnmg of the matter. Enzer Announces Staff Additions Suggestions Made To Student Coullcil For·ClassFunctions Class Fight Included Graduate Council, Special Committee Submit Many Proposals Por purposes of better organizing and revitalizing the student body a series of propusals for class tunc- Lions has been presented to the Student Council by a committee which has studied the problem of class organization together with a committee of the Graduate Council. Probably the most important is the suggestion that of1ice!\s ot the three upper classes be elected d ur- ing the spring In order to give each class an oppottunity to get under- way immediately arter registJ.ation each September. Shortly after t.he conclusion of the dance they- will leave for New York. In the rmetropolis their head- quarters will '!be in the Plymouth Hotel. At B: ::~o· .p, m. they will sing in the no:vth. .ballroom of the Hotel Astor, after willil!h they will again be honoraty ·guests at a dance for which a popuia=.I' :New York orches- tra has been engaged. mer-ce_ It depkts life In Japan when The land hunger which the mili- it \>~'as ruled by a corporation of ta.ry class has sh<>wed in the con- feudal lords. And since an under- quest of Manchulmo is justified standi:ng of .r:nodern day Japan is since it has relieved pre.ssure on imp-ossible wit:hout a knowledge of Japanese land of which only, one- its feudal bacltground, the careful eighth is arable, and enterprise in study and collection of the old the new province has supplied raw prints and woodcuts which he has materials for the Japanese fac- made has giv-en CQlor and vivacity t()ries which were formerly bought Among other things, it was dis- covered that Lewis Wallace Hallen- back, '40, is a descendant, in col- lateral line, of Dirck Romeyn. Hal- ienback descended from Dirck Romeyn's half brQther, Thomas. Ten Sophomores and Thirteen Frosh Named to ConcOI·di- ensis U nderclass Board The ever-unsolved problem of what kmd of harmless physical rivalry might be instituted be'tween classes has received much attention in the report. Two speci!ic rEcom- mendations were made: that a freshman-sophomore basket. ball ga.me be held in the fall in the gymnasium with organized cheer- mg; that a push-ball contest tor two underclasses be held early in the fall on Alexander tield, to be followed by a beer party given by the losers. Saturday aftet:n.oon at 1:30 o'clock the Glee C1ubo W'lill broadcast its regular pl\Og-:fROl· over Station WOR, which originates at Newark, N. J. After the broade;ast, the members will be free tv do a.s they wish un- til they lea \Ve f0or Schenectady on the retu!\ll tri::IJ to the college a.t 10:30 Sunday ooorning. They expect to arrive at 1he campus about three o'clock in the afternoon, after they stop over in 'Poughkeep~ie for their Sunday cUnners. Tickets f<>r the New Yorlt con- cert are on sal e at the Student Ac- tivities Office :at the student price of one dolla..r eaeh- The folol\'Wir:~g members of the Glee Club Vllt:l take the trip and appear in NeiV· Y'ork: Fll·.:st ''Tenors Chat els BErg;:et·. H. Leonard Bull, John Mitchelh Jo-hn Morrison, Jack Quinlan, Ro·be;;rt Shaw, and Robert Simmons. Seco niL 'I'enor·s Ernest Bode-nstab, Bernard Car- roll Everett Fwller, Elmer Johnson, Joh'n Lewis, \,i\(a..lter Shaw, Rollin Twining and Austen White. l!lt-st Basses Andrew Dry bu l'gh, Phillip Duch- scher•er, Chaf.les Giles, Frank Nolte, Chester Robl!ilson, James Scott, Kenneth Street~r, and Charles Sweet. S<Jeond Basses W. Vaug·hn .Alexander, Henry Clay, Jay Dayt,.,.n, Edmond Kelly, Craicr Miller Ber-na.rd Olender, and Har;'y Wailing;. ----o--- Amstut~. Talks To Chemistry Club The fil\st of1ficial meeting of the Union College Cllemistry Club will be held torligl!t in the chemistry building, at v;which Professor Am- stutz will spe ale. to the group on \The Theoqt CJf VLnylogy.\ An orga:niz;atiwn meeting was held two w-eess ag-o at which offi- cers were ele..:ted and a constitu- tion was adoopted.. Herbert Zuhr '39 was elected president, Renata Pomatti '3!;, s ecretary, and Arthur Santora '38, t teasurer. The group now consists of j'Jfty members, and is opc.n to sl!lldents pursuing stud- ies leading to a Bachelor of Sci- ence or a Bac::he lol\ of Arts Degree in Chemistry. The aims oE file club are discus- sion of oppm•bulllities and problems in the field of chemistry and the attaJ.nment ol!' experience in pre- paring and deJiv~t•ing technical ma- terial beforE·s clentiflc audiences. The che:rnlsls will meet every other Tues<las> and it is proposed to have boll». tecllnical and aca- demic speal\e· rs. Exchange speak- ers from Slc:ld-nore and Russell Sage, plant inspection trips, and the sponsorsh . .lp of the annual pic- nic for c:heot!stry students and faculty me.~boers !'J.l'C items on the future progra. m of the club. to !:lis knowledge of contemporary · (Continued· on Page 4) M:r. Sebring, himsefl a direct de- scendant of Dirck Romeyn, will present a brief, dramatic picture of the famous Dutch Reformed minister who persuaded the state Board of Regents to place the col- lege at Schenectady over the oppo- sition of strong pressure from Al- FI-ed Wy~att Returns A.. I. E. E. to Ileal' Lectu1·e F'rom Missionary Tour On Diesel Electric Moto1·s 'F\i:ederic A. Wyatt has just re- turned from a 30-day trip where he Itas been confering with the gra..Juating Class of 41 preparatory and: high schools. The tour took Mr. Wyatt to all the leading schools in :New Jersey, Pennsylvania, New Yor-k, Virghia, Maryland, Dela- ware, District of Columbia and Georgia. An!C>ng the schools visited wer-e Peddie, Hill, Mercersburg, Allentown, R..andolph Macon, Fork UniZon, Augusta Military Academy, ancii Lawr•enceville. A..t :a:ll of the schools Mr. Wyatt interv-iewed prospective freshmen anOI. in many- cases addressed the entjre studeth t body. The movie, ·<George Goes j() Union,\ was shown at many schools with great suc- cess. Upon his return Mr. Wyatt cmnmented on his trip as fairly suc-<:essful a..nd expressed great plea.stue in the widespread interest in U:nion shown throughout the East. It is in. teresting to note that a g-reat center of interest lies in the SoUith... Mlr. Wyatt spent part of his time i.nterviewing business men concern- ing e:mploym~nt qualifications and the pCJssibility of placing graduates in iheir conc.;;m.s. Again it was the South. that showed an interest in Unjon men. Mr. Wyatt found possi- ble placeme:nt openings in the A!Y'3Prican T()bacco Co • Philip Mor- ris Co., Coc11. Cola Co. at Wilming- ton.., :Dela., Chesapeake and Ohio Ra.:ilroad, and other business con- cer-ns_ ----0--- D.1.·. Fox Speaks at Peddie Fou.nders Day Exercises Mr. John C. Davison, of the ban.y citizens. Arnerican Locorrtotive Company, Valuable objects which were asso- will address the union chapter of elated with Dirck Romeyn which the A. I. E. E. tomorrow night at Mr. Sebring discovered during his its regular monthly meeting in the search, will be on display in a spe- Electrical Engln.eering Buidling. cia! exhibit in the College Library M:r. Davison, who is the engineer during the Founders' Day weekend. in. charge of Diesel electric mootrs . The stone tablet which will be in the Locomotive company, will placed in the Memorial Chapel discuss the newesi developments in floor, immediately in front of the this field of tr::J.nsportation and chancel in the cen.ter isle, is now show what the local works is doing being cut. It will be mounted a few along this line. His lecture will be days before Founders' Day, but will illustrated with. slides. The meeting not be unveiled until the actual will be held at eight o'clock. Fol- ceremonies on February 25. !'~wing this lecttl.re a general dis- Dr. W. H. s. Demarest, president cussion will be l1eld and refresh- emeritus of Rutgers University, rnen ts served. JUl students inter- and noted authority on the Dutch ested are invited to attend. contributions to American culture, ----CJ especially in New York and New Amei\ican Artists Group Jersey, will speal\ on \The Dutch in the Making of the Nation.\ work t .. Go On Display The entire proglam will be broad- cast internationally by W2XAD, and W2XAF. The etcbings, woodcuts, and litho- graphs of the American Artists Group now on view at the College Bookstore offer students a chance to see a range of subject matter that runs the gamut o.f all possible tastes. 'I'here are exarnples of conserva- tive and so called modern art of realistic abstract, and even sur- realist a!\t. Thet\e are landscapes, h..umorous and genre pictures; pic- tures for those 1vho like sailing an'' o thet SJ?orts; p!ctu1 es of animals, 'l'l:Udes, tndustriai scenes, marines, and still life; pictures for tho~e who. want pm·ely decorative prints for their walls. J:n variety of sub- ject matter and treatment this ex- hibition at the bookstore comes very close to be!n.g a complete cross- section of the wllole range of con- temporary .American art. 0 Boys' Club Entel'tains Christian Association ----·0~--- Weyman Harp T1·io Heads Shubert Concert Program The Schubert Club will present Its second concert of the season c.n Thursday evening at 8:3(} in Me- menial Chapel, at which time it will r,resent as its guest artists the Weymer Harp Trio. The WeYmer Harp Trio is com- prised of three young women fr<Im a famous conservatory of music in Syracuse. According to Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, director of the Shu- bert Club, the young lady harpists of great talent, and \make a charm- ing trio.\ ·~Tile reputation of the great scboo-ls of .Ar:nerica,'' declared Pres- ide:nt F'ox:. Sun·day in. Highstown, :N. J. at the 72nd Founders' Day exercises of the Peddie School, ··rests upon :their students' general On the invitation of the College acceptance of high standards in Christian Association the Harmon- the class room. It is the sustain- ica Band of the Schenectady Boys ing a.f .stand.ards which makes the Club will appear- in a concert this cont!\ibution as importa.nt as that evening, Tusdeay, a.t 7:3() P. M:. in made hy the founders of an insti- E'lilliman Rall. . tution and the successive masters. 'I'he group is composed of about Tb:ois tcsolves the problem of edu- fifteen members Rnd will render a ca;tio:n to sustain those standards variety of musle:al selections, mod- b)\ devising ways and means to ern and folk-tunes. This is their ke~p the spirit of the founders first appearance on the campm:. alive and functioning. 'The College Christian Association Approximately seventy-five men will take part in the singing of four groups of songs; the harp trio will play three groups, and the men will join the harpists in the rendition of the song \Silent Strings.\ Included in the songs is to be a group of Welsh folk songs ru; well as several old American songs in commemora- tion of the 150th anniversary this year of the signing of the Constitu- tion. The program will be closed by the prestition of \Immortalis a· new song by the American com- poser, Gaine. \Most of ~shave what Thorstein ~~srk a~~u~;ed :~s i~~bes~in~e i~: The concert i~ to be broadcast over local short wave radio sta- tiolJS. .. o---- Weekly U.C.C.A. Concret F eat u r e s Tschaikowsld Vebli:n calls the instinct of work-· beginning. of the year. It plans to !llanship, he said. \We want to ·distribute a nu:mber of students crEate. Tha.t is why most of us · want to be on the creative side .into activity in· the various phases The Romeo and Juliet overture of life rath~r than on the nega- of work being.done by the club in ·by Tschaikowsky will be presented its home on Green street in the at the weekly Wednesday evening ti\O\e.'~ city. concert presented by the Union Col- ~·rt is eas:y to devise an educa- Following the concert by the lege Christian Association in Silli- tlonal instlt.uHon and still easier :Harmonica. Band the boys and man Hall Wednesday evening at to .give It 'ILP at tbe first sign of. their leader, -Rockwood Jenkins, 9:45 p. m. dilfficulty. &ut enterprises like this v;i!l be entertained at one of the The Chl'istian Association an- ar~ not rrla.intained for the most fraternity h()us.es. The Christian nounced that ail the concerts would pa:.rt-by mt><ney. . .Association e:xtends full invitatio:t stat't at this time in the future, and The sophomore and fJOesh.ma.n boards ot The Concordiensis for the remainder of the college year were announced today by the sen- ior editorial staff. Ten sophomores and 13 freshmen, including candi- dates for business as well as edi- torial positions, have been added to the staff list. Competition for positions on the junior and senior staffs will come to a close early in the month of March. Hyman A. Enz.er, '38, edi- tor, announced. The Ptlblicatlons Board at its meeting last week. passed the recommendation that elections for The Concordien~is .be held at the ·regular meeting in March. Elections heretofore have 'been held in April, usually after the spring vacation, but it is hoped that the Publications Board will take action to hold ele{\tions even earlier than March. Most college newspaper staffs cha.nge imme- diately after mid-year examin- ations, after scholarship reports 'have been made public. Thus, the senior board starts functioning in the midst of all college activity and not in the final month;; when the principal concern is studying for finals. The new boa.rds are as follows: Sophomore Boa1·d; Christopher Cammack, C. Russell Deyo, Robert Eisner, Christopher Fahy, Walter Fallon, Edward A. Fitz, Jr., Stan- ley Gertz, Albert H. Halavin, · George L, Peck, Lawrence V. Pelle- tier, Jr. Freshman Board: Paul W. Becker, John Binninger, David Fairfield, Donald Haigh, William Humphries, John LeWis, Kenneth Ma{)Kenzie, .fohn Philips, Mortimer Robins, Robert Sch.ulberg, Laskar Schwartz, James E. Twining, James Ullman, ---0---- Harris Criticizes Present Thinking The Rev. Thomas L. Harris, rec- tor of the Church o·f St. Luke and the Epiphany of Philadelphia de- plored the lack of spirituality and subjectivity in modern day think- ing which he thinks is necessary to give a meaning and unity to the vast flood of facts impending on us from multifarious sources. \From every source there pours a steady stream of information out of which no single mind can make any sense at all,\ he said. \We are like detectives confronted with altogether too many clues. Our problem is not a lack of clues but the ability t() reduce them into some order and meaning.\ Stimulated by the Graduate Council's urgent request that class offkers be retained for puz·poses ot aiding in organizing the alumni body, the Student council decided that if officers were to be elected they should be given something to dl), Thus programs of class dinners, games, dances, entertainments and smokers will be put in charge of the officers of each class. The success of the amateu!\ night program which was p'resented last fall at the Freshman Camp prompt- ed the suggestion that each. class might enter a competition of one- act plays or skits sometime before the Christmas recess, competing for a worthy prize. One suggestion which received almost unanimous approval was for hodling reunion dinners during the first week in September for the three returning classes. The three days prior to the formal opening of college are usually spent in g!\eet- ing old friends and discussing the past vacations said the committee, so an informal reunion cUnner for each class on the day its members register for the new year would provide a rich opportunity fot· all classmates. With the possibility of establish- Ing class endowment funds, offi- cers can serve further useful pur- pose in organizing the campaign for such funds, said the committee. Another suggested function for officers was that of acting as a personal clearing house for com- plaints about college abuses-Hale House, courses of study, faculty members, the library, or athLetics- which might never reach the ad- ministration because of squeamish- ness of various individuals in mak- ing those complaints directly to authorities. The Student Council cornmittee is composed of Winterton U. Day '38, chairman; Hyman A. Enzer, '38, and Louis Carr, '40. They will meet soon with all class officers to 1 e- discuss these various suggestions. 0--- Radio Club Improves In Transmitting Code The Radio Club is making rapid progress with its practice in trans- mitting the Morse Code and they now have their new transmitter on the \air.\ Last weelt they were suc- cessful in communicating with Boston and cities in New Jersey. Individual members of tbe club have high frequency sets and are getting in some \extra-curricular\ experience. Pomatti ali. no unced that an at- tempt wou1d be made to have the members join the American Chem- ic;J.l Society as student affiliates, thus fostering;: a. .professional spirit. The American Chemical Society is the largest gro.up of professional chemists In tJJe world, ••rt is necessary to find a mean- to the members of the entire col- that they will be held each Wed- in,:g fQr sustaining a cause or an tire to attend l·l1e Boys Band Con- neSday instead of every other Wed- Science, economics and politics are today full of bewildering para- doxes and are constantly shifting in ideas, declared the Reverend Ml\. Harris. \Scientists no longer show a general interest in knowl- edge but restrict their field until scholarship is cut up into strips and patches as narrow and ineffi- cient as the strips that the medie- val farmer had to plow. Even re- llgion has become a fragmentary and private affair. \It is the poet, however, who makes sense out of life. The Radio Club ran a broadcast- ing station in the 1920's \Vhich oper- ated on about the same frequency as that used by WG Y at the pres- ent time, and this Union station was then one of the few operating in the country. in:stltution,\ continued Dr. Fox. -<!ert tonight. nesday starting tbis week,

?age Two FOUNDED 1877 \ll Causa Persa Parollf Assai\ 1937 Member 1938 fu~ociated CoUee,iate Press Distributor of CoRee;iate Di5est REPflESEHTED POR N ATIONII.L ADVItRTlSING BY Nationai'Advertisil'!g Service, Inc. College Publis\'rs ·Representative 42.0 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N. Y. ClliCAGO • BosTON • LOS ANGELES • S\N FRidiCISCO ---------------------------~-- The offl~ial newspaper of the students or Un\ul• College_ J:'ubllshed 'I'uesuay and Fridays througJ,. out the college year, exeept durtng Christmas ami Spring t:ec!;!s~es. Publication Office, The Gazette P~ess, 334 St•He Ht. Schenectady, N. Y., 'I'elephone 4-4141 !Cn tcred at !he SchentJclady Post Office ao See on u Class Mall Matter Senior Board Hyman A. Enzer ............ , .. Edltor-in-Chief 11 S. S. S·outh College-6-9728 Robert H, Ferguson •..•...... Managing Editor l'\i Upsilon House-4-8710 Julius J. Bundgus ................ News Editor 9 S. S. South College-6-9728 Henry D. Hartmann .•........ Feature Editor 7 U. G. V.-6-~620 Cad R. Trahman ..............•. Sports Editor Kappa. Sigma Hou•e-4-8326 John H. Gilmour ............ J3usiness Manager Delta Upsilon House-4-7~22 Marvin l'rL Miller .. Associate Business Manager Kappa Nu-4-733l Alfred B. Seigle ........... Circulation Manager Kappa .:-<u-4·7~3l Junior Board ASSOCIATE EDITORI:l Frederick W. Hequembourg H. Wyman Hitchcock Hobert A. Saaf Jerome Stnith Edward c. Retartyk Hobert C. Walter. Jr. :\la\ L•n Alan C. \\'ranu Soph()more Board Christopher Cammacl~, C. Russell D~:yo, UoLert Eisner, Christopher I•'ahy, \Valter I•'allon, Edward A. I•'itz . .Jr .. Stanely Gertz, Albert II. llalavin, ti~orge L. Pe{'k, Lav..rence V. Pelletier, Jr. Freshman Board l'aul \V. B-t>1·ker, John Rlnnlnger. Dade] F'airtit\lc1. l>ouald Haigh, William llumpht\eJ' John Lewi~. Kenneth :\1ad{.~nzie, .John PhiliP~. ~lortimer Hobin:-:, Robert S{·hulberg, La:;kar Seh\vartz, Jame~ I·~ Twining. James l:llrnan. Issue Editor ...... . F. Hequembom·g Assistants R Saaf ... E. Retariyk L. Pelletier Tuesday, Februa1·y 15, 1938 GETTING STARTED EARLY The recommendation to hold elections of class officel'S in the swing at the same time that Student Council and Tenace Council ar<! elected should prove very useful in providing student activities with more responsible lead- ership. Election of officet·s at the end of the college year, instead of the beginning, gives each class and organization an opportunity to make use of the vacation and the first part of the new college year to understand and perhaps plan their duties. The step which is being taken by The Con- cordiensis in holding its elections early in :\larch this year V.'e hope will be extended next year. A new editorial staff, taking of- fice immediately after mid-ye-ar examina- tions or following the publication of the Founders' Day issue would have a better op- portunity to get underway as editors when the college was in the midst of activity. Or- ganization of staff, which is by far the most important function ()fan efficient board, can be accomplished more easily with a continu- ing policy. The officers of most activities are elected in the last month of the college year, but we see no necessary reason why The Concordi- ensis or even The Idol should not hold their elections sometime in February. The Garnet, too, once it starts to function as a senior yearboolc, might alsQ consider electing its new staff in the middle of the college year. It might even publish in December. A principal fault with student activities at Union, outside of personal mismanage- ment, seems to lie in the lack of easy transi- tion from one year to the next. It is true that th-e office of student coordinato1' has done the college an invaluable service in remedying a system of inefficiency and waste. But not until there is a more penna- nent fl}rm of responsibility in student activ- ities, such as officers wh() have the oppor- tunity to or.ganize with the aid of more ex- perienced undergraduates, will a satisfa.ctory THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1938 Which leads us to another point. Sped- J U S T By ~~~~.of extra-curricular activities •be instiN ·.,[l.-·===;;;;;;;;;o====-I-N==-J-:;;;;;E;;;;;S;;;:;;;;;;;.f;;;;;•. ~==;;;;;;;;;;;!Ill· ··.!:=;;.;;;;;;;;=;;;;;M;;;;U;;;;;;S;;;;;IC=:;;==~I By Herbert 0. Fox fically in the publications it seems reasonable to expect that new editors should receive the,. For the record: (1) Just in Jest benefit of the advice of the outgoing boards' will continue to be published in while the members are still in college. Thus, Tuesday's issue of the Concordy; we Sl:lf!:.gest that editors of The Concordiensis 12 > Uncle Willy has not, as yet, ~ been tarred and feathered by the could be retained in an advisory capacity alumni; l3J the Administration once they leave office; likewise in the other has not, as yet, given your Uncle publications, if they ar,e to have elections in Willy hell for the last column. We do hope this little item comes to the middle of the scholastic year. Such a the attention of one David Light, plan may not seem feasible under the present sy::;tem, but it is a sugg·estion which the ex- perience of three years of uneven changes; prompts us to pass on t{) the student body and the Publications Board. WANTED: RUBE GOLDBERG We would take the college to task for :aot fixing its gymnasium roof. Just like the preacher who asked for fuads to fix the hole in the roof of his church we appeal to the college to get some kind. of contraption to catch the dribbling water from the skylight. We remember when George Krayem, '37 fixed up a dripping shower in South College with a graduate tube, a cylindrical cake can and a few pieces of wire. A funnel arrange- ment with long extensions of rubber tubing leading to the shower rooms in the gymnas- ium might be a way of killing two birds with one stone. The college makes sure that all its other buildings are in good condition. The gymnas- ium of all places, where accidents may hap- pen so easily, should be given immediate at- tention. Referee Williams, as well as every basketball player who has run on the gym- nasium floor, knows the insecure feeling in tr,ying to move on a wet hard-wood floor. ORGAN vs. ORCHESTRA Dr. Tidmarsh has been putting up with lots of competition every Sunday afternoon with his organ recitals. Not including the heavy toll which the movies takes on the student audience, the Philharmonic Sym- phony Orchestra has been playing very reg- ularly for the past few years from 3 to 5 o'clock every Sunday afternoon. In other words whatever student interest there may be in symphonic music has been attracted to the radio broadcasts from Carnegie Hall, with the necessary decrea.:>e in attendance at Dr. Tidmarsh's recitals. It may be true that those students in :\lernorial Chapel Sundays from 4 to 5 are there for the enjoyment of music, yet it must likewise be true that many other stu- dents who like music are enjoying it via the air waves. Either way, music lovers are missing something. We think that a change in the time of Dr. Tidmarsh's concert might be made without too much inconvenience. A candle-light organ recital from 5:15 to 6:15 seems very appealing; the two short-wave ::;tations would probably be glad to avoid conflict with the radio broadcasts from the New York con- cert hall ; and there would undoubtedly be a larger student audience (those back from Saratoga and the movies as well as listeners to the Philharmonic). Over 270 concerts have been broadcast by the Philharmonic, during the regular seasons which come at the same time as the coll.ege year. And our organ recitals have been go- ing on at the same time. That's maintaining the status qu{) with a vengeance. THE STRENGTH OF MYTH Despite popular belief that overbolting daily assembly invokes a punishment requir- ing taking a course in the Bible, there has nPver been any college rule to that effect. We wish to cor-rect here and now the long current misconception that such has been and is the case. We would also apologize to our readers and our trusting letter-writer· of the past issue for having assumed, unjustifi. ably, that the course in the Bible has been required for all men who over-bolted. The punishment is reduction of the number of absences allowed for the following semester. What we can't quite explain is where the devil the myth started and why. aspiring young columnist, who has been spreading some very wild tales about us: <4> Messrs. Calvin,. Enzer, Carroll and Coburn (other- wise known as the Mohawk Drama Festival) have not, as yet, an- nounced their intentions of suing us for libel. Lucky for us both. CAMPUS CHAT'FER-.- we only have ten inches this week so we shall be short and sweet ( ?) The Westchester girls' school that Brother Light refers to in his col~ umn was the Briarcliff Junior College D'ja ever hear about the time Eddie Bergen and Charlie McCarthy ·entertained the g-uests at the Union prom. They were playing at Pt·octors and were brought up to the dance by the prom committee ask Lewis and Mulcare about their frosh servant ... Love dept.: Ace Dodge and Sarah Hutchins (the new librar- ian) are that way ... ditto Hank Hartmnan and one Lois Holly . . . also we heard-hold yourself- Ferdy Helm is In Jove , goUy ... Charlie Honikel is still presi- dent of the I. R. C ... _ understand Kenny Brown, '37, has left his job at the Guarantee Trust to accept a position with Beech-Nut . . . and then there was the very temperate Skidmore gal who when invited up to Dartmouth Carnival week- end assured herself of having the right kind of drinks available by sending up beforehand a case of Coca-Cola .. _ d'ja see the story in the Schenectady Sun on· the Union- Rochester game which referred to the Union team as the Sons of Schuyler. Loadwick Peck, I bet ... three outstanding chorus boys of the recently produced \Junior League Follies\ were Jack Nott, Hal Stevenson, a.nd Ric Angle . . . understand Doc Danton's book will be out in a week or so. Lin Yu- tang says it's good. They're saying nasty things about that co- operative test in Chemistry which found the Union students high . . . laugh of the week: when three members of a Union team walked into a Saratoga spot Saturday night, a U.nionite looked at them quizzically and said, \And how much did you lose by?\ . Cor- nell is supposed to have spent three thousand bucks for Tommy I LIBRARY SMOKESTACK I The formidable pattern. of thumb marks on thP library copy of Wil- liam Saroyan's The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze is un- abashed testimony to recent inter- est in short-story experimentation. Mr. Saroyan, the deep-,breathing Armenian, has thrown the rules overboard, and a good thing, too. Else he would have sailed his ego on the rocks, and busted it badly. Our times are witnessing a lively conflict between those who believe that a story is a story, plausibly baiting narrative curiosity from be- ginning, to middle, to end; and those who like to think of it as a focus of some poignant moment of- experience, a light thrown fitfully upon the confusion which is life. This is an over-simplification of the issue, of course, Anyway, it wouldn't do the pros- pective story-writer a bit of harm to go to the library for a little meditation upon the art of great story tellers of the past. He might look up Anton Chekhov, the great Russian, and after him, Maxim Gorki, or Ivan Bunin. Then he can turn afresh to Guy De Maupas- sa.nt, whom he knows, of course. His imagination will take wild flights with Pirandello or Dun- sany; and he can find a really pro· found penetration in Thomas Mann's Stories of Three Decades. And how about D. H. Lawrence, who was as good a short-story man as a novelist. And Arthur Morri- son's Tales of Mean Streets.? He will not need to be reminded of the collected one-volume editions of Katherine Mansfield and H. H. Munro (Saki). Comment on American story tellers requires. another column sometime; We'H 'just say here that we wouldn't trade Ring Lardner for a carload of Saroya.ns, And we'll Stick up for Saroyan any time. A man must breathe. More on the magazines another day. J3e sure to look into W. Som- erset Maughrun's \The Professional Writer\ in the Saturday Review of January 2~. Mangham has the hard common sense of the seasoned craftsman. Dorsey and Russ Morgan for their \Of Men and Music\ by Deems prom last Vie ek~end. Morgan got Taylor; Simon and' Sc:h uster. Col- twelve hundred and Dorsey receiv- lege Library and Bookstore. ed eighteen hundred· . . . scoop- at the Skidmore Beaux Arts J3all Here is a book Which, Hke its ne:><t week-e.l)cl \the most beautiful author, draws most of its :appeal girl\ will be· selected by a com- from its simpleness, straightfor- mittee made up of :a sculptor, a wardness, and, most of all, its in- p-hilosophet•. a:nd three college men from Dartmouth, Williams and timacy. Of men and music is just Colgate ... and then there was the what this book is. We find the inebriated lJnjon lad who went to great, near great, and obscure rest- ·the State .prom and upon ap-. 1 d ·proac·hing vr;;ry sedate Dr. J3ru~ · ing side by side, each revea ed an · bacher (pr-<esi dent of the college) . discussed with that same art of stoPy in the receiving- line, hit the good telling with which Mr. Taylor cap- doctor a hearty crack on the back ti vates his radio audiences. In fact and said, \·lt-c-1-1-o how are ya. most of the material in the book -Gosh, lookit y-our tie. Let me fixit\. found its seed in the intermission DEAR NH. CARROLL: You were the a. utbor of a letter which • chats of the Sunday afternoon appeared ·in last Friday's issue of Philharmonic broad-casts. this paper. Y'ou. said in part: A good portion of the book is de- \J.n last 'J'u esday's Concordy, the voted to a discussion of the faults column appropriately named Just and virtues of modern music. Your in Jest pr-inted a statement that questions about why you do not the acadmnic .part of the Moha-wk like Stravinski but love Beethoven, Drama Fe.~~ti'val, the Institute of or vice-vetsa, are sympathetically the Theatre, would be abolished and intelligently answered. this summev.•• Perhaps the most thought pro- Those ar-e :your exact words, Mr. volting of the chapters deals with Carroll. the plight of the American opera · t . goer who has no more idea of what The following -IS the par of my the words means to which he is column to· which you refer: listening than has an unbmn child. \Understan.~l Charlie Coburn, He pleads for an American Opera head of the Mohawk Drama ¥'es- Uompany with American voices, tival, is go.ing t;() try to abolish the American orchestra and conduc- Institute of the Theatre, '(the tors, and good translated librettos. academic ,psut of the Festival) In Germany all Italian operas are this summer·~. sung in German, Frenchmen hear Webster interprets the word the \Ring\ in French, Italians hear \understan.d!' to mean \to be in- \Faust\ in Italian so why shouldn't formed; to h.ave or receive k110wl- we hear these works in English? edge; to lea:rn.\ This, says Deems Taylor, is the Webster interprets the word only logical way to build an under- \try\ to :rnecan. \to essay; to at- standing general public-a public tempt; ende,.,vour; undertake\. this countzy still finds sadly lack In short,. :Mr. Carroll, you rnis- ing. inter.preted >OUr sentence in your Other chapters discuss musicians letter. of the past such as Brahms, Bee Fie, fie, M:r. Carroll, and you a thoven, and Wagner and musicians member of .the English depart- of the present such as Georges ment. Enesco and Alban Berg. Some are devoted to figures so unknown that there never was, and probably Uncle ·Willy IN THE MAIL DEPE~VED CRIBBERS To the ·Editor: There bas been so much said, and rightly so, about all that is good and cl€an and commendable never will ·be, a discussion of them outside of these pages. Mr. Taylor also writes .from his own experience on and off the air, His penetrating wit enlivens all of the chapters and his fascinating stories color them. This book rich ly rewards both the man who has studied music all his life and he who has never heard a note. at Union College, that a bit of criticism of a certain widely-in· dulged st ud>Cnt activity is not, I I think, out o:f order. I refer to the I M 0 T 1 0 N I practice of cheating, cribbing, 'lind · otherwise npping, that goe.s on '•=============-.; under our noses at almost any ex- - amination or.q_uiz. I am not allud- ing to the idle and unpremeditated checking ·of one's paper with a neighbor's: this perhaps is excus- able, or, at any rate, endurable. I mean the il:eliberate and criminal preparation oJ notes, trots, and outlines, wbich are ·brought into the exarnin ation room and used under the very eyes of the proc- tors. The insiil:ious thing about the whole ptobl em is that the victims of the deiJraved and wretched cribbers D-re their classmates. Since most .grades are computed on a sliding- scale, and are not de- termined by- a.ny accurate measure of the knowledge gained, the cheaters that obtain A's thus push their mo.rc p1·incipled classmates down tmvard or below the average. Perhajl'S i:f a few more students realized th?t their efforts to by- pass kn()w ledge from notes to exam paper without going through the head w-ere injuring the cause of ht<'ir f<\lic>ws. thP pradirP of gypping 'v~uld have fewer adher- ents. -Unsigned. \ * • LillRABY SILENCE Editor: Thanks :for the s.pace. Small good it did1 What has cork-padded cells for his staff to- do with the uproar of students in his library? If the li- brarian can. 't :keep the peace what would yC>u :suggest we do? I. Still Suffer Editor's Note: We suggest a pad- ded cell--and it doesn't have to be cork. • • Some on-the-make -w111g decided that a smart, if not apopropriate title :for the third Sonja Henie film would be Happy La.nding, Which was perfectly OK, too. .After all, the other two pictures made sacks and sacks of that metal whose threads are among that which all tha.t glitters is not. The public then, must be interested not in the story or its title, but in the star. So Happy Landing it is. A series of ice ballets, interspersed with songs, music ,and vaudeville acts, swTounded by the pale, wan sort of plot <that covers a multitude of scenes,~an this serves to l{eep M-iss Henie's fat little legs climbing up the lllidder of fame. Story starts in New York; shifts to Norway, Paris, New York, New ark, Brooklyn, Kansas City, St Louis, Detroit, New York, Miami New York, Miami and New Yol'l{ ExcE\I)ting Paris and Miami, Sonja manages a few spins in all those places. At the latter two villages Miss Ethel Merman holc.l.s sway with her reper.toire of chants ill times. Needless. to say-, this kind of geographical survey is broadening it helps the American public to a more nearly perfect unilersW.Udin'g of the pro-blems of the rest of the w-nrl4. And is it entertaining? We think :not. Granted that the Condos Broth ers (they did the Wooden Indian dance), Ethel •Merm'a.n, Cesar Ro mero, iDon Ameche, Wally Vernon Billy Gilbert, and Sonja (on skaites) ar·e all very good. But wouldn't it be a much :better pictill'e if the pro ducers had paid liS muc.b. attention to form as to content? Yes·. ]IILiss Henle's, gJ.'raceful twirlings YOlJR- FAC'I'S, JABIE! are ibeginning to look very much To the Editor: alike. The novelty in ea<Jh picture This mor-ning, my attention was lies in the ch·ange of her back called to two paragraphs which ap- grounds and costwnes. But since peared in the \Idle Drivel\ column ice and short skirts· look pretty of your paper. much the same under any condi These pa:ragraphs state that the lions, it follows that, eventually, \Sig Chi d.elegation received clip- the su'bject of the last sentence in pings sent to them by their st. the first paragraph is going to be Ruse date:s:· No owch \c! udely come cynical about the whole busi ripped news articles\ were ever ness of s:k.ating ballets. Therefore sent from these dates. if Twentieth-Century Fox wishes to The cond.uct and conversation of keep Miss Henie on ice, it had bet these you111g men was above re- · ter pay closer attention .to the proach. Certainly if you have no stories for her films. regard for your fellow students you Bulldog Drummond's Revenge should have regard for printing un- has less of John Barrymore's antics true statelll:.ents which are insu.lting than the first of the new series to students of another college. and, consequently, is not so i11ter We asl;: :for an apology both to esting. But it's crammed w~th har the boys of' Sigma Chi who attend- rowing melodrama, .and E. E. Clive ed the Coil ege of Saint Rose prom T,.ouise CampbeH, Reginald Denny and to us, the dates who are ac- and Frank Puglia help make dt in cused of sending these clippings. teresting enoug-h. I trust .thlat you will take care of M'ayerling js· at Harmanus Bleeck this matteL\' Immediately. er Hall in Albany. Miss-- J.M.

ox by Deems Col- tore. Hke its its appeal straightfor- all, its in- is just find the rest- evealed and art of stmy Taylor cap- ces. In fact the book afternoon ts. book is de- the faults music. Your you do not Beethoven, bought pro- deals with opera idea. of what he is child. Opera lean voices, conduc- librettos. operas are hear hear shouldn't in English? is the an under- public sadly lack- musicians Bee- musicians as Georges Some are unknown and probably of them .from his off the air. all of fascinating book rich- who has life and he a note. ,., II wag decided apiJrO]'riate, Henie film Which After all, made sacks metal whose which all The public, not in the the star. is. A series with acts, e, wan sort of multitude of to lteep Miss climbing up York; shifts York, New- City, St. York, Miami, New York. Miami, Sonja in all those two villages holds sway of chants in- this ltind of b-roadening; public to a rest of the We Broth- Indian Cesar Ro- Vernon, (on. skaites) ut wouldn't it jf the pro- attention Yes·. eful twirlings very much ea<Jh picture of her back- es. But since look pretty any con.di- -eventually, sentence in going to be- whQle busi- Therefore, Fox wishes to :it had bet- .to the Revenge antics new series, not so inter- wJth har- E. E. Clive, Denny p make !it in- Bleeck- J.M. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1938 Pag.e Th1·ee Varsity Five at Middlebury; Swimmers Here Tomorrow ~----------------------~ ~------------------------- ----------------~----------------------------·------- Dutchmen Quintet To Play Panthers Gamet 'Five Upsets Hamilton; Trounced by Rocheste~· Over Weekend Union will meet Middlebury to- morrow night at Middlebury in the Garnet five's twelfth game of the present season. 'The Panther quin- tet is one of \the four\ teams that the Dutchmen will defeat accord- ing to Coach \Nels\ Nitchman and to-date the hoopsters have followed their coach's predictions very close- ly winning three ·and dropping eight. Union was a rejuvenated team Friday .night when they broke a three game losing .streak by upset- ting the Continentals from Clinton, 40-31. Saturday, Rochester which had lost a close contest earlier in the sea.<oon to the same Hamilton club, ran rough shod over the Gar- net team and rung up a 53-19 :vic-. tory. Union could do nothing wrong and Hamilton was never ahead in the annual meeting of the two . rivals on a basketball \ourt. Tommy Pugh, who had been a con- stant thorn in the side of one of Union's \great teams\ two years ago, could not find the ba.<oket all night and the Hamilton attack re- volved almost solely around husky Myron Carmer, who led the eve- ning's scoring efforts with 14 points. Keep Early Lead The Dutchmen Jumped into an early lead and kept the Continental attack well bottled up with their effective zone defense. Lou Carr and Herb Watson were the most consistent Union scorers but. Johnny Schultz, Captaln Grant Smith, and LaRue Buchanan gave them valuable assistance. The first half was nearly ten minute,~> old before Carmer bulled his way through the Union defense to score the first Continental field goaL The score at the end of the half was 21-11 in favor of the Gar- net due principally to long set- shots by Lou Carr. In the second half, Hamilton switched from a zone to a man to man defense with little effect except that the game was noticeably roughel'. Four players were removed from the contest via the personal route and the high point of the game was reached when Jaw Miller and Pugh collided head on in mid-court when both players were scrambling for the ball. Miller was carried off the floor. :Rochester Good Rochester displayed one of the smoothest working teams seen here this year Saturday night. Led by Bud Spies and Tom Ulreck the Rivermen scored almost at will and had the Union defense baffled with their accurate and speeding passwork. Rochester had 15 points before LaRue Buchanan scored the Garnet's first field goal. The Yel- lowjackets continued to pour them in and led at the rest period 32-12. The paucity of Union scoring was even more pronounced in the second half as the nets were only dented for seven ·points. When the Rochester second team entered the game in the middle of the last .stanza, Union changed its defensive tactics and started pre~si11g all over the float. This proved disasterous as the ever-alert referees called .several fouls on the Union five. In fact, 19 of the 29 fouls called were registered against the Garnet. Spies and Ulrick led the Rochester scoring with 16 and 18 points re- spectively, while Grant Smith was high for Union with seven. The summaries: Union (40) I Hamilton (Sl) G:FP GFP B'hanan.lf 2 6 6 Carmer,lf 4 6 14 Miller 0 0 0 Sullivan,rf 2 1 5 Doyle 0 0 0 R'leberger,c 1 0 2 Watson,rf 4 1 9 Forbush,lg 0 1 1 Smith,c 2 1 5 Davis 0 0 0 Schultz,lg 3 0 G Quimby 1 0 2 •ra.nner 0 1 1 Pugh.rg 2 1 5 Palmer 0 0 01 Towner 0 0 0 Carr,rg . 6 1 13 Keane 1 0 2 Totals 17 6 40 Totals 11 9 31 Officials-Williams and Cassidy. Union Watson,lf Busino,lf Carr,rf Wiberly,rf Smith,c B'hanan,lg Doyle,lg Schultz,rg Palmel',rg Tanner,rg . .. * (19) G F 1 0 0 0 2 1 I} 0 2 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 PI Roo!tester (63) 2 Spies,lf 0 Lane,rf' 5 Buocher,rf 0 Mee,o 7 Brewer,c 4 Ulreclc,lg 0 Cohen.lg 0 Gilbert,lg 0 Roberts,rg 1 ::ltephens;rg G I'' P 5 6 16 2 1 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 8 2 18 1 1 3 0 2 2 2 2 6 0 0 0 Middlebury Contf3st Will Be Narrated Over Radio Swimmers to Meet Maroon Team Here After losing its 23rd and 24th consecutive meets over the past weekend to Amherst and Roches-: ter, the varsity swimming team will try to break its losing streak tomorrow evening when it meets the Colgate na.tators at 7:30 in the Foote Pool. Record Smasher The Midd:lebmy-Union bas- ketball game will be broadcast play by play from the Memorial Gymnasium in Middlebury at 7:55 p. m. tomorrow evening, Febr-uary 16th by RCA Victor Radio over station WQDM of St. Albans (dial 1390) and WCAX of Burlington (dial 1200). This broadcast is one of a series of eleven college basket- ball games to be broadcast' under this· sponsorship, in Ver- mont, this winter. Although they .Jost their fifth and sixth meets of the seaso.h over the weekend, the ·Garnet tankmen ' \DUtch\ Smith and \Whitey\ Killick, popular sports an- nouncers and commentators will' be at the mike during the contest. Frosh Quintet Loses To Albany Academy continued to break pool and col- lege records. In the Sabrina en- counter, Chuck Passe undoubtedly turned in the best performance of a Union swimmer this year whe.n he negotiated the 100 ya~d free style in 54.9 seconds to set a new pool and college record. The -400 yard relay team broke the poo.J record for the thil·d time this sea- son when they negotiated the dis- tance in 3:53 minutes. These were the only first places taken by the Union natators against Amherst, but a notable feature of the pro- . gram was Harry Myers' second ' CH.AR.LES PASSE The freshmen quintet dropped a close game Saturday night to Al- bany Academy, 38 to 31. The game was clo~e and hard fought all the way. Union made a .spirited rally ln the closing minutes but a tight Albany defense checked their at- tempts. Hill of Albany was the out- standing man on the floor and high scorer with 16 points. This was the fourth loss of the season for the freshmen out of five games. Their final encounter will be with the R. P. I. frosh Saturday night at place in the diving, which was the ------------------------- Troy. Union Frosil-(:JI) a Vannier, If ..... , , •.. , .... 1 Tiedeman, If ..... , . . . . . . . . 0 Pord, rf ............ , . • . . . n T:n·~hlc~, rf , ......... , . , .. 0 C1esinsln, c ................ 3 Semerad, c . , .. , .. , . , . . . . . . 0 Rathlev, rg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Wientraub, lg ..... , .... , .. 0 C:anfield. rg ............... 2 1\'[ott, rg .. . .. • .. .. . . . .. .. .. 0 12 Albany Aea.demy-(38) G Hawkins, If ............... 3 McCarthy, rf ............. 3 Colonna, rf , , . , . , , , .. , .. , .. 2 Judson, c . , , • , . , , , •. , .. , , , 1 Rosenstien, Jg , , , , .•.. , .... 1 Hill, rg •.• , .•.. , , .••....•. 5 15 ----0----- F 2 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 2 0 7 }' 1 1 0 0 0 6 first time he has done better than third. Saturday the team joumey.ad to Rochester and lost to the River- men 47-28. Chuck Passe was again the spearhead of the Union scoring, garnering first places in the 100 yard dash and 220 yard freestyle, besides pacing the relay team to its fifth win of the season. Passu set a new college record in the 220 yard event by negotiating the dis- tance in 2:27 minutes. Captain P Arny Gordon lost his specialty, the 200 yard breaststroke by a touch to Jones of Rochester. Jones was timed in 2:47.5 and Gordon in 2:48 minutes. The summaries: 10 0 4 2 6 0 Amherst 55-Union 20 3 300 yard medley relay-Won by 0 Amherst !Co-captain Kothe, Fow- Z ler, Garton). Time 3:25.5 220 yard freestyle - Won by 31 Wright (Amherst); second, Guest p (Amherst); third, Derrick (Union). 7 Time 2:34. 7 50 yard freestyle-Won by Nell 4 (Amherst); second, Jones (Am- g herst); third, Teare (Union). Time 16 :25.5 Dive-Won by Christy (Am- 8 38 herst); second, Myers (Union); third, Lawton <Amherst). Points 72.22 Frosh Ice Squad Drops 100 yard freestyle-Won by Passe Close Contest l ·n FI\nale cu:nion); second, Jones, CAmh?rst); ·thu·d, Garton (Amherst). Tlme- :54.9 (New pool and college record). 150 yard backstroke - Won by Fowler (Amherst); second, Whit- more (Amherst; third, Miles (Union). Time 1:!:>9.5. 200 yard ·breaststroke-Won by Kothe CAmher.stl; second, Wheeler (Amherst); third, Gordon (Union). Time-2:41.3 (New pool record). 440 yard freestyle-Won by Good- now (Amherst); second, Wells <Amherst); third Dunigan (Union). 400 yard relay-Won by Union (Teare,' DeWitt, Brittin. Passel. Time-3:53 (·New pool and college record). Rocltest&:r, 48; Union, 27 300 yard medley relay-Won by Rochester (&aspers, Jones and Caldwell), Tilne-3: 3(}.6. 220 yard freestyle-Won by Pa.sse (Union); Stugls (Rochester), sec- ond; Derrick (Union), third. Time -2:27. 50 yat·d dash-Won by Hill (Roch- ester) ; secon.d, Teare (Union); third, Brittin (Union). Diving-Won by Moffett (Roch- ester) ; second, Wright (Rochester); third, Myers (Union) . Points--68.1. 100 yard dash-Won by Passe (Union) ; second, Kill (Rochester); third, Etugis (Rochester). Time- :56.6. 150 yard backstroke-Won by Kaspers (Roc h e·st er); second, Hooker (Rochester); third, Miles <Union). Time-1;56.8. 200 yard b:reaststl'oke-Won by Jones (Rochester); second, Gordon <Union) ; third, Strong (Rochester). Time-2:47.5. 440 yard freestyle-Won by Deck- er (Rochester); second, Baybutt (Rochester) ; t b i r ll , Rheinhardt <Union). Time-5 :•!8,!1. 400 yard relay-Won by Union (Tem:e, Brltt1n, Derriclt, Passe). Time-3:54.7. The f r e s h m a n hockey team dropped their final game of the season to Albany Academy Saturday afternoon, 3-2. This was the sec- ond defea-t the freshmen have suf- fered this year at the hands of Al- bany but it was far less bitter than the 6-0 loss earlier in the season. Their was plenty of good hockey and fast action as the vastly im- proved freshmen put on their best game of the season. Outstanding for Union was Brad Grant and \Dud\ Holmes, while Oakley led the attack for Albany. Mermen Invited to Intercollegiate Meet Union Albany G Holmes . . . . . . . . . . . . Hannock LD Hart . . . .. .. . .. .. . . . . . Oakley RD Gregory . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pearson LW P'...astings . . . . . . . . Slingerlands RW Mckinnon ............• Evans C Grant ............ J. Perkins S Colson . . . . . . . . . . . A. Perkins S Brickley . . . . . . . . . . . . Wheeler S Ottenot . . . . . . . . . . Burlingame Scoring: First Period - Oakley, Albany, 1:45. Second Period-J. Perkins, Albany, 1:06; Grant, Union, 6:04; Oakley, Albany, 7:08; Colson, Union, 14:30. OLD UNION By BILL KETZ In 190S Vermont defeated Union in basketball 21-15. This wa.s the second Union team !lifter the sport had been revived in 1906-7 ...• As late as 1928 the Intramural pro- gram at Union was very scanW. The S:t>ring Program as announced by Director Bruce consisted merely of relay racing on the board track in February, wrestling, boxing, and fencing in March, track and field events in April, and medley relays in May. Such a program was top- heavy in track events. Our present program cal'l'ies eight different events and participation naturally has greatly increased . The Union College swimming team has been invited to participate in the first individual championship meet sponsored by the Eastern In- tercollegiate Swimming League in the Harvard pool from March 18- 19. The invitation was sent by Wil- liam J. Bingham, director of ath- letics at Harvard and president of the league. The invitation was sent to twen- ty-one colleges in addition to the seven members of the league which are Columbia, Harvard, Dar.tmouth, J:'Tavy, Pennsylvania, Princ~ton, and Yale. The other colleges that have been invited are Amherst, Army, Boston Unl -vers it y, Bowdoin, Brown, Colga.te, Cornell, City Col- lege, Delaware, Rutgers, Spring- field, Swarthmore, Srracuse, Union, Wesleyan, and Williams. Every com]>~titoT' that is entered must meet certain minimum re- quirements, however, before his en- trance is accepted. The require- ments necessary to qualify are: 50 yard freestyle, :24.5; 100 yard free- style, :55; 150 yard backstroke, 1:45; 300 yard meclley relay, 3:10; 200 yard freestyle, 2:22; 440 yard free- style,. 5:2~; 400 yard relay, 3:45; 200 yard breaststroke, 2:40, and dive, 90 pe>ints. THE CAMPUS BARBER SHC>P Basement of Silliman Hall A Special Service for Union Stt~dents Anthony F. Barbieri Bows: 1:30..7:00 P. M. Compliments BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner\ UNION ST. and GILLESPIE L. H. Brandhorst L. E. Brandhorst Totals 7 5 19 Totals 19 15 53 Referees-Eckersgn and Williams ·CONNELLy To Discuss Union's Size \What is the Optimum Size for BROTHERS Unic;m College?\ will be the topic of an informal discussion to feature DA·I·RY InC- the meeting of the Union Chapter v of the Association of College Pro- fessors to be held Thursday eve- ning, February 17, at B:OO p. m. in 1858 Hamburg Street the Hale House Faculty Lounge. w. H. Ketz, secretary of the PHONE 2·0910 group, announced the meeting as the ninety-ninth gathering of the Union Chapter. GAZETTE PRESS Printing I -,. Phi Delta. I Phi Sigmlt iNTRAMURAL$ · Myers,F. 6 1 13 Boychuek 1 1 3 :,·/ l i Theta. (2DJ Kappa (18) : · ' ' . : B'hanan,D. 2 1 5/ Ostrander 4 o g : Fay 1 0 2 Blai\dell 2 1 & !.:;;;:=============;:;;;;;.!· S'er'crhot·n 1 1 31Harri~oll I 0 ~ Boxing· and Wrestling· · Fiester 1 0 2/ Rieger 0 0 () ' Carf.lon 2 0 4 U11derwood u n u Entries for the boxing and wrest- ling tournaments must be placed in, i3 3 :;/ ~ 2 13 the intramural box Bot later than $ \ .tomorrow, February 16. Please · Beta Theta I Delta u 1 ,suou designate each contestant's weight , p,f (28) (2!) on your respective entry blanks. : Geer 3 1 7 B'ocluneyer 3 1 7 ·Robinson 0 0 0~ Sherman o 1 1 Merriman 2 0 4 Keers D o () Basketball \21\ Chappel 1 1 3 Mara 2 o 4 Shaw 1 0 2 Bartlett 6 0 1~ The thlrd round of each bracket must be completed on or before Sat- urday, February 19. Opponents must arrange their own matches which may be played between 10:30 :\!axwell 5 u 10 Fi11k u 0 () l\Turmy 1 U 2 Furman 0 0 0 Barry o 0 o ---1 13 2 2~, 11 2 2·1 a. m. and 1:30 p.m. each day in ·\'i==============\\:'s the presence of either Mr. Ketz or li Mr. Lawrence. B()wling Roll-Off Phi Delta Theta will meet Theta Delta Chi in a roll-off to decide the winner of the National League. The ; BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paints, Olls, Varnishes, Gla£s, Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY winner .of this match will meet ·11;:=============~ Delta Upsilon for the champion.- -=----------------------------- ship. Intramural Basketball Troy Second Shirt Outlet Schedule Spoolallzlng In Finest Troy Seconds, Odds and Samples February 15, 7:30-Alpha Delta , Phi vs. Beta Theta Pi. 8:30-Soutb · 715 State St. College vs. Sigma Chi. Across from Armory February 16, 7:30-Psi Upsilon vs. :•===============\ Delta Theta. 8:30-Theta Delta Chi ,~ vs. Phi Sigma Delta. --------------------------- Basketball Results Restaurant-Tap Room·Dellcatessen GOLD'S Feb. 12- Phi Sigma. Alpha Pill Delta. · (26) Delta (21) Schron 0 0 0 DeGesero 3 1 7 Amazon 2 1 5 Isabella 1 0 2 Paul 2 0 4 Pi pi to 5 0 10 · ALWAYS POPULAR Dwore 3 0 6 Page 0 1 1 Shoor 0 0 0 Slmboli 0 1 1 Schultz 3 1 7, I ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ Siegel 2 0 4 S<'hulberg 0 0 01 li 12 2 26 9 3 21 .. .. . Clti ·l'sl (44) Sigma Chi (<I) Keough 4 0 8 Edwards 0 0 0 Twining 6 0 12 Burgess 1 0 2 Draper 0 0 0 Howland 1 0 2 · Murphy 5 0 10 Cristiano 0 0 0 ' Stewart 0 0 0 Gould 0 0 0 Guibert 6 0 12 Hasbrouck 0 0 0 Norris 1 0 2 22 0 44 2 0 4 ALL LATEST NEW and USED RECORDS Also Automatic Phonographs For Rent By Day or Week Columbia Novelty Co. 406 Smith St. AMERICAN A·l LAUNDRY The Most Perfect Laundry Work in the Capital District Pit. 4-3166 1030 Barrett St. lnt~ruted in Schroutady lnterestrd in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay S~rut Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Rt!pairinrJ a Specialty P ARICER PENS A NJ:tjW SYMBOL 01•, a national organiza- tion dedicate to the sci- entific control of daii·y products, this seal is your ass11rance of finer ice cream. I m:m:::::m::m:::::::m:m:mm::mm::::::m:m:m:::::m:m!::m:mmmm:m:m:::m:m:m::m:m:::m:::m:::::gi NOTICE To ALUMNI T 0 PARENTS OF UNION STUDENTS T 0 FRIENDS OF UNION COLLEGE The Concordiensis offers you a grand opportunity to keep in touch with UNION affairs. Subscription Price $1.50 ISSUES: February IS-June II INCLUDE NEWS OF FOUNDER'S DAY INTERFRATERNITY DANCES PROM, GRADUATION, ETC. ADDRESS LETTERS TO: CIRCULATION MANAGER Concordiensis, Union College iii :m::m;;:;;:m::m:;;;;mmm;;;;;::m:;m;:m~:~:::,::~:,~~;::i~;m~;mm:mmm:m:::;:;::m:JII

Page Four Cullitiagham Talks On Endocrino 1 o g y Disclts.ses Medicinal Benefits :Discovered Tltt·()u~:h Study 0!1' Pl'oteins and Fats \Nutr-ition and Endoetrinology as They .A:re Related to Medical Prob lerms,\ was the subject of the talk giver:. by Dean Robert S. Cun- ningham of the Albany Medical College delivered in the Old Chapel Friday before members of the So- cietr oi'S\igrna Xi and of thP Med- ical Society. In his talk Dean Cunningham outlined the t·ecent research done on prate ins, cai·bohydi·ates, and fats and pointed ou.t possible cures which may be developed by in- creaseci knowledge of ·these sub- stances., f'or diseases long thought fatal. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1938 Dorm .IJ'w!elle1·s Build $6.40 Ping·Pong Table How te ·n ·t·esidents of Not·th Section, blort-h College built a ping-p()n~ ,table at a cost of $6.40 per stu.de:nt wa.s revealed today by John· :Lewis, freshman p1 es- ident oH.liat dot·m. The tem dor·mitor·y devotees to the g~ tne of table tennis de• cided to• t·emedy the need of a ping-pong; table in the dorm by ordering .Juml>et' from a local dealer •a,_nd ·constructing the table tllenselves. The ,btuat:lun wa\ compli- cated -whe.n the J.umber com- pany dell vered •the materials at the hu ltJC uf Dean Galls. A ftet a search' \vas rnade of the cam- pus, the· •1t1ate rials we1·e found and the a.ma t,.m· ca rpentPrs be- gan theta· ·wot· k The results of their lab()!' can be seen ,In Room 8 of North College donn where a service- able .ping·pong table is now in daily USE:. Unioll' CQ/lege Club ilJ\i/l H al'e Dance Strauss Critic RQi/.zinski 's Rendition of Is Powerful and Virile, Says By HER&ERT o. FOX ,;queals!. How diabolically wicked: were the passages that portrayed: Mol!day, Feb. 14-A p<Jwerful, Till's mischievous forays with shop- vir·i!e orchestra p!ayed under the keepers, women, and town digni-' direction of Artur Rod.zinski to- taries! Strauus has always been Mr. Rodzinski's \Piece de Resistance\ night in the ·third perfo1mance of and hi.s reading last night was in-' the CUl•rent Civic Music series. dicative of his skill, Barring a.n unorthodo\' J:eading of The Strauss Dance f.J•om Salome the Brahms Second Syntph:ouy the· was al·so treated with understanding. concert was all that anyone could and v·igQr. This .piece does not; stand too well as absolute music hope for. without its operatice background.: It Js unfortunate that Mr. Rod- Nevertheless, the sensuous undula.t-· phony were under the disadvan- ing dance of the perverted princess: zinski and the Cleveland· Sym- was graphically portrayed. CA.L:I!lNJ)AR. T'od:ay N e\V'11la11 Club Meeting, Silliman Hall, 7,: 20 p. m.. Mr. :H. Irvin,g Olds, \How to Un- derstand J11.:p1UJ.ese Flints,\ 8 .p. m., Old. C ha..pel. ··Wednesday Daily Assernbiy, .Spealter, Gale HIJffman; \40. Memoria! Chapel. l(} a. :rn. Rad.lo 'Club meeting, Electrical Labora.tory, ·1: p: m. Swinuriir...g,. Union vs. Colgate, F<Jote Fool, 7· p, m. 'Jlhl.lii\Sll.ay Daily Asse:mbly •. Speake1·, Hon. Henry Epstein, Solicitor Gen- erat, State of New Yo·Ik, Me- morial ehapel. 10 a. m. American .Association of Uni- versity- :P.rdessors meeting, Hale Ho'-lse Lounge at 8 p. m. Sch'l.lbet:t ·club, Memor.ial Clta.:peL, 8:30 p. m. Weymer Hacrp \Jlrio. :Ft'i<lay Daily Assembly. Ot:gan recital, Dr. E. A. T idrnarsh, Memorial Clta.pel, Ul a. m. tage of havifrg their re.ndition of As an encot·e the orchestra played the :Brahms masterpiece follow a \Tales from a Vienna Wood.\ This· magnificent performa.n().e of that piece sounded ridicously flippant' 1vork. last Saturday evening over after the preceeding heavy music .. the air by Maestro Toscanini and Last year Mr. Rodzinski committed. the NBC :Symphony. Mr. Tasca- the same sin by playing an English nini ably showed that ·i.n <Jrder to 01 ,chestral farce. Is he playing down achieve the perfect result one to a small town audience? We wish must find a combination of he wouldn't. breadth and subtle power coupled The Cleveland orchestra is show-· .. ~'Oil. 1·C;ES with that pastoral charm, delicacy, . · 1•'4 :1 and that freedom th:at distin- ing co-nsiderable improvement from· Y ear to year under the competent JUNIOE :EDITORS guishes this work fr<Jm the first, \' . T'he h#nion College Pyramid tutela'\e of its director. When hear- T' .. e:te 1vill ,INJ ~n .:unp01·tant third and fourth symph.otLies~ Mr. -- . Club wtll1 conduct a semi-forma 1 ing its rich strings and brasses it meeiin.g uf the jnni~r boar(l of dance ·In H:antta Hall on the 'Rodzinslti found the bt·ea.dth, the: is hard to remember that the or- i:'he ~IL<JOrdiensis tomorrow aft- .power, but he completely neglect-· college·c::arnpl.ls Saturday night, chestra was in quite the same po- ernoon, '\VedB.Esday, at 5 oclock, ed the lighter touch. ' tl '-ii off· Dining Room Hours Changed Beginning imm.ediat(lly, there will be a change in the Hale House din- ing I'ooxri hours. Henceforth ·On weekdays, ·brealdast will be served fl'<Jm 7:15 to 9:30 1 lUllch from 12:20 ·to 1i:30, and di.imer from 6:00 to 7<:15. On Sundays, breakfast f.rom 9:00 to 10:00, dinner from 1:00 to 2:15, and suppe1· ft•om 6:01i to '7 :45. PATRONIZE THE COR. UNION and JAY STS. They Advertise Work on animal acids has sug- gested a possible cure for tuber- culosis and bas disclc>sed much in- format ion. about thyroxin and adrenaJin. Knowledge of adrenalin has made possible the cure of dia- betes and it is now •being employed in Eul:'ope for the cu.re of the de- mentia. known as \split personal- ity.\ Although the injection of in- sulin g·ives the patient horrible shock and produces severe con- vulsions it has been su.ccessful in 40','(. o,f the cases in bringing the patieni ~ack to sanity. Febmar~ 19. T'his is the sec- sition as our local one not so many m te :1'11. .. -cations xce. At- ond of several dances planned In Till Elenspiegel of Richard. years ago. Its rapid development ij~t~e~n~d~an~c~e~·~ls~req~~l.ll~r~·e~d~.=:=:=:=::;=:=:~~~~~;;~~~~~~~~~~ by the .g to up <luirng the year. Stra11ss the conductor and otches- into one of our country's leading - The -rommittees in charge of tra teached their full stature. A musical organizations shows what \Increased knowledge about the carbohydrates, of which vitamins are co·mposed has resulted in cures for \'bed-beri\ and scurvy long kn{}wn. as diseases t·esulting from faulty djet, he said. Research on vitamins has also disclosed the cause of lack. of growth, skin dis- eases an·d deficiencies, nervousness and oiher disorders.\ '\l'h e .study of endocrinology is one of the most fa..scinating and vitally important fields of science,\ said Dean Cunningham. \It is con- tinually leading to new and start- ling discoveries. prm·ing of the greatest benefit to medicine.\ ~-~--o Ins(Jectm Lestel' Fails ']'() Appea1.· for Lecture Due tCJ unfot·seen t.ravclling diffi· cul tie$, Inspcetor W. H. Drane Lester e>f the Fede,~al Bureau of In- vesH)5at ion who ·v,a.::; to have aJ· dressoed Dr. Vernon A. O'Rourke',; SS 48 class yesterday afternoon on the subject \The Re·lation between Federal and State Law Enforce~ mPnt Ag<'ncie~\ at tl~·rd on the ram· IJU:' ~(·\\\ctal hnur~ later than PX· peeled, and consequently could not give his propo,;rl! talk. A> lnspec· tor· l ..... ~.:.~ter hn..; a Vf·J Y hr:1 \T ~pt'ak· ing schedule, it io not probable that he will be ublc lc> .;i \C thi\ add!PS' at a lat~r date'. -- ~--a~-· J • isEti.,g- Lectruer Tells OJ Co11ditit~ns in Japan 1·~un tin ueli fwnt Page 1) ftunL the w~:-;tpm na lion~. lJltimate~ Jy, however, ~h·. Old.' feels, the peasantry and the \\'OIIter~ will be harmetl ,ince goods mad•' in 'Man~ chukuo and crop~ tni.:'r<l in nnrth Chin:a are being shipped into Japan and roming into rnmpetition with th<:> .J'apnnP?e products. 'Th•<' g·.tanr!'ltd of 1i ving \mong thr Japa nP~r i!' a 5hade above subst .. ~t­ ence and their plight:; az e steadily groOw-ing worse. That fact i.s attested by- Mr. Olds' observation that the eonspipt soldier for the pre~ent fracll!s with China is smaller in welgiht and statuz.e fl·om the con~ •c1·i•H in the war ··with Russia in 18m. 'The farmer Is unablP to subsist on hb tice ctu!-J a:c:ne \Vh!ch i . ..: Ja.pa.lt's gt·eat stable and must raise sil.k we>uns. This Intensive culture whir It flr.<h a wotlu nurk~t i' p,~ senti..al to kPep milli<Jn\ of Japanese tat·m ers ali\'C. 'Th·oe factoz·y srstem, a phenome- non not ve1y well de\·e!oped except In tile five or ,;ix gt\Cat impel ial cities. J'I()wev!''i', there are ·infinite numLct~ of ,mall \''or )t.-;hup~ employ· ing t!,ree or four workers which tu.tn o1.1t 65 per cent of all thP co·un tt}~'s industtial output. In these shop.s the conrl·itions are worse than the lniqultlous condition~ of our own sweat shops. These ate the shopos which will be hurt by the ri- val factories set up in the Japanese mainland posses.slo.ns and suffet most from aggressive imperial pol- icy Tl:Je life of t hP pea,; ant in Japan was not pal ntPd In bright hue~ by 1 Mr. Old,; who>'e wide travels throll.lgh the beaut.lful Japanese Is- la.nd.a allowed him to make sad but di sspassiona te observa tioru. &it!ley Awarclerl Scholarship Ju liu:;; .J. Sif.ney '3·1 of 1298 Park- wood Boulevard, Schenectady, has been awa.rded a renewal of a Hor- ace Dennett 8Cholarship of $100 for thE Spring Semestet· in the Columbia Universit)' School of Med3cine, :'<'ew York City, it is an- nounce<! by Dr. Willard C. Rap- 1Jl<·l·e:, dean of lh<> Sehoul. Thae D<!ttnet t .Scholatship Fuml I was be-queathed to the University by the late Lizzie Dennett Lock- I' wood. Awards are made annually to tbhd and fourth year students I of hiigil. academic standing, the deta.ils are: genet·al, John I truly comically pathetic creature can be achieved with intelligent pur- Bib>'\\'ood..., cltairman, assisted b;y was revealed by clevel\ contrasts. pose and a wise concentration of VValt<>r IBose and Gurdon Par- Agajn we heard the terrible power diverse interests. We would like to lOUIS WASSERMAN sons; arad .J>Ublidt:r. Melv.ille E. of the tl'ombones in the strenuous ;;ee the same thing evolve here, Pattison an<l George L. Peck. chords of the courtroom scene. How possibly through a combination of I Music will be provided by subtly did Till's saucy answers to the effort now spent in producing · \The ~loelody Boys,'' a popular the awesome indictments change the four mediocre orchestras in the I local uta:hestr·a. ----~-f-ro_rn _ _:.gl_i_b_u_n_c_o_n_c_e_r_n __ to __ t_e_r_ri_fi_e_d_C_a...::..p'_·ta_l_D_is_t_r_ic_t_. --------~=:=:=:=:=:=:=:==:=:=::::::::::=::::=:=:=:=:=::=:==:=:=:=:::=::=:=:=:• ,(j)UALITY MEA.T MARKET 354 Brocu:lway Phones 4·3364, 4-3365 Every s;noker ren1embers with pleasure the day he found out about Chesterfields. Chesterfields give you a differ- ent kind of smoking pleasure ... mildness that's more refreshing taste that's more satisfying aroma. that's more appetizing Mil.d ripe tobaccos and- pute ciga· re tte jJtJ:fJf!r, these Ckesterfie./a in· gr-~ciients are the best a cigarette C(X1/ luev.e, Chesterfields SA T!SFY CopVIil;lillt 19\8, LtGGl!IT & MYERS TOBACCO Co. . . !Jou21jinJ MORE PLEASURE in Clee.rterfield£ milder better taste z v ( E I H cl t2 G cl se b~ pc dE D1 of m gi e:l! fr Pl m P< ar be pl Ol m ruo ll( fu a! ju in ci a F a! Iii iu in pi H G tc o1 gi C( f< n C( VI IS ti IE ( c F g a 0 n p 0 t f h l1 t s J:: f c e (

will din- on be served 12:20 6:00 to from 1:0~ to to '7:45, STS. I Wor:kers Have Equity In Jobs Says Epstein iPage 4' Z511 Vol. LXI., No. 34 U >11 0 \1\ C 0 L • UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1938 Interfraternity Council Hopes To Modify Hell Week PRICE FIVE CENTS Chick Webb, Joe Haymes Chosen Junior Prom Orchestras Senior Class Leaders ·will Discuss Insurance Policies Automobile Jam Session Accidental Feature o j Schubert Club Concert Rewrding Machine Civen To College By Bailey Will Be Widely Vsed Colored, White Bands Named To Play Here Friday, May 13 The students of South College Dl', Frank Bailey, '85, treallurer Hope \To Start Ball Rolling\ in Meeting in House Monday; To Consider Taking Out Policies N e:xit Weeli: held a unique, impromptu class last of the college, has donated a Hale night when they witnessed a prac- Pr·esto recording machine to the tical course in traffic accidents by leaning out of the window of their college, accrding to an announce- dormitory rooms. ment made today by- President FOl' the automobiles of those at- Fo:x. The apparatus, which has a Committee Considers Maldng 'This Prom Most Inex· pensive in Many Years; Famous Ella Fitzgerald With 1Vebb Wednesday, Feb. 16.-The fil·st active step to establish a class endowment fund through a life insurance plan will be taken next Monday when the senior members of the Student Council and the Terrace Council meet at Hale House, senior class president Winterton U. Day ann()Unced tonight. These tending the Schubert Club Concert value of about $400, is at present held a ctlrious jam session on the· in the Phy-sics building. unusually icy pavement with bent Dr. Fox has appointed Dr. Peter fenders, and interlocked bumpers I. W<J!d chairman of a committee furnishing the only casualties. to determine the uses to which the The class started at about 8:00 recording machine will be put. The when an unwary motorist, who committee includes Dr. Ernest M. came speeding down South Terrace Ligon, Dr. George D. Kellog, Cod- Lane, found that his brakes were man Hislop, Dr. Gordon R. Silber, useless on the icy- pave-ment and and Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. It is after a 1oud bnmp, which called the felt that the gift may be put to South College Class to order, found great educational and cultural use his car locked onto one of the white in the college, since it is capable of· concrete poles lining the lane. recording music as well as speech. Thursday, Feb. 17.-A Junio.1· Prom, at the lowest price per student in 1nany years, featuring a \batt1e of swing\ be- tween Chick Webb of Harlem a11d Joe Haymes of the Hotel Plaza, on the night of Friday, 1\fay :1:3, was announced tonight by the Junio-r Prom Comrrrittee. seniors will \start the ball rolling\~·~-------------­ by considering taking out insurance policies, said Day, G11rdon Parsons, '4:1, Dies This Morning Immediately afterwards another' Interfrat Council Modifies Hell Week Tonight at meeting of the Stu- dent Council, Henry P. Gulnac and Douglas Smith, both of the class of 1934, explained in outline the manner in which the insurance pro- gram would work, and for one hour explained and answered questions fr(}m all members o-f the council. Tallmadge Gurdon Parsons, '41, car trying to make the L turn be- Persons using the machine speak In a recent meeting of the Inter- fore the Waldron residence found into a microphone similar to the of Glov-ersville, died early this his car heading for the terrace type used in radio broadcasting. fraternity Council a resolution was · · Ell' H 't 1 f 11 • passed urging fraternities to mod- mor-nmg m IS osp1 a, · o ow- wall. He didn't quite reach the Tb.is is amplified and cut mto an On recommendation of Joseph Paul, '38, Gulnac and Smith will make a simplified outline of the pur- poses of a clas>; endowment fund and the methods by which it may be raised through the insurance plan. Mimeographed copies of this outline will be distributed to all members of the senior class as well ru> underclass men interested. ify theit· hell-week by- reducing ing a sudden attack of spinal men- wall, as another motorist following acetate compound on thin alumi- some of the more st'renuous activ- engitis. Removed to the hospital closely caught his fender, and spun nnm disks which can be used im- ities and to confine the informal T d him half-ways around. Two other mediately- for playing purpose on . . . . ll ue.s ay afteroon after complain- ft d . . d h an ordl\nar\ Vl'ctrola. B\ replacing part of the m1t1at1on to the co ege cars a erwa1· s Jome t e jam ses- ' ' campus. ing that he was feeling ill, he was sion immediately afterwards, and the recording disk with the nee- in .despErate condition for two at 8:30 there was a line of four essary connections, the sy-stem may \.At the last mee!ng of the Inter- day.s. Dr. G. Marcellus Clowe at- cars, all locked together, completely be used as a very- effective public fraternity Council a resolution was d d h' f h . . blocking tra.ffic along the lane. address system as well as for its passed by t!;:~e Council favoring a ten e rm rom t e begrnntng of primary purpose of making record- recommendation to the member b' ·u d t 12 ld l ht Yet the jam session caused no fraternities of the Council of a Ill l ness an a m n g ill will. Immediately after one ings. ft b · 'th P all · ht modification of strenuous hell-week a· er emg WI arsons mg melee, the drivers of the respective The apparatus is in three pieces, reported that hope had not yet· cars climbed out, and were heard and is capable of being transported practices still used by some of the All Classes Jo-hn S. Krull, '39, suggested that not only should the seniors be made fully acquainted with the plan, but also freshmen, sophomores an(! juniors. The benefit to be derived in taking out life insurance poli- cies at the earliest age poss;ible is a lowered annual premium rate. Freshmen, for example, with aver- age age of 18-19 could take out a life policy and pay a yearly prem- ium of about $18-$20 while men go- ing on 25-30 pay higher premiums. · h t fraternity gi\oups here at Union. been given up. to say-, \Why George, what are you from place to place wtt ou very 'I':he members of The Pyramid doing here?\ much difficulty-. The Council further recommends Clui:J, in deference to Pa.rsons, to every member fraternity- of the Council that it strive to impress ~~v;he~~g::~:d wh~~h p~~ 0 ~ 0 e~:~! uuds 9 .n -De Lange S ... ·~z·ng BandRa.,ed throughout its membership the p ace omorrow nrg m anna - · 1 · 1 t · bt · H flj · '\ Ul (,I I modification of public Informal Hall. Parsons, a member of the • • • ~mt ~~IOn to t~e end that ~he . r:a· club, a resident of middlesection I Among Leaders zn Natzonwzde Ro.ll termt~es r:nay chereb~ be dt¥mfle~ North C{)llege, was the son of Mr. bot~ m e:>sence and In public est.l- anli Mrs. Levi Parsons. He was matlon and ma:y bet~er play therr Gulnac, in his introdnctory ex- planation tonight, said that despite the 7,()00 living alumni of Union College, less than 1,500 contributed to the annual Alumni gift fund. In other words, there are some 5,000 graduates of the college who are contributing nothing at all. At the present endowment of four and a half million, Union is nmning on one-third the cost that colleges like Williams, Amherst and Wesleyan are exiJlting-and Union ts maintaining an academic reputa- tion that is the equal of those col- leges. Gulnac brought out that the great (Continued on Page 4) ~---o--~ College Orchestra Hopes Fol' More Music Interest Every Wednesday night in the Old Chapel and sometimes in Hanna Hail a small groUp Of music lovers gathers to mull over sheet music and play snatches of song. Shades of the old Union College instru- mental clubs and the college sy-m- phonic orchestra. Ever since the first notice of the organization of the college orches- tra was made requests from several fraternities and the college itself have been made to the members to play in public. Since early January the OI\ganization has been preparing several pieces of classical music for presentation in what now seems a far-distant future. From a group of 25 members the orchestra has dw.indled to a mere eight faithful, still under the baton of Alfred Swyer, '41. However, there is still hope that the orchestra will renew its activity- with all its for- mer members and perhaps some. new ones. A place for rehearsal P.as been secured in Hanna Hall, with a grand piano that is in good. tune and regular sessions have been called for Wednesday nights at 7:30· o'clock. The men who have been interested in the orchestra are Rena to Pomattl, Micpael Letk<l, John Palm, Cllj.rence Gingras, War- ren KimmEy-, Edward Case, Salva· tore 'LaCerva, Edward DeFeo, :Jjlver· ett Haffner, Frank Connor, Roger Burgess, Willi!'-m Male, Willard Male, Robert Frelick, Frank Fred'- ericlts, Theodore Robinson, Alan Horowitz, Herbert Smith, Richard Gould, John Lewis, William Hum- phries, Franklin Atwater, Herbert Fox, Elliot Hertzmark and War- ren GammoJis. graduated from Gloversville High The Hudson-DeLange orchestra, part of cooperatw~ wrth the college Scll.ool last June and while there selected by the Interfraternity of rhythm and bas been rated In furthermg their commor. pur- be played in the band and orches- Council to play at the interfrater- slightly above Isham Jones, Jim- :POse. tra. ran on the track team and nity- dance, is a most popular band mie Lunceford, Bunny Berrigan, The aim of the Council in mak- won prizes in social studies and rating high among the top swim,. Russ Morgan and others who have ing' these recommendations is to· French. orchestras of the country. In a re- old€r reputations. eliminate as far as possible, off- A.t Union he was a member of cent poll taJten by \Down Beat,\· 'l'he band's meteoric rise to fame campus and public demonstrations the college orchestm and The official swing magazine, tbis orches- and success lies in the fact that and to bring within moderate Pyramid Club. He was bolder of tra was voted in the first fifteen of it is self-subsistent and maintains bound the hell-week activities of the Parson Scholarship, an award America's leading bands, both for a high standard of musicianship. the houses. made annually to two students \sweet\ and for \hot\ music. The Hudson and DeLange are noted All of the national fraternities from Gloversville. His great uncle nationwide poll placed Hudson-De- sODlf'\Titers and Will Hudson is have gone on record as being op- Levi Parsons founded the scholar- Lange in both of these gr·oups; the one of the country's leading arrang- \ posed to hell-week and the Council ship. only- other orcnestras sharing this ers. Together they have developed believes that it is now up to the I\he funeral will take place Sun- double honor being Tommy Dorsey a unique style of rhythm which is 1 individual chapters to put forth an day at the home of his parents. 1 and Casa. Loma. meeting great popularity with the earnest effort to .support the Inter- The Pyramid Club members v.-m 1 It ha:> 1eceh·cd the acclaim of I music conscious college crowds be- 1 fraternity Council in its recom- attend in a body. many ~rltics for its individual style fore which it is playing. mendations,\ Glee Club Sings Tonight at Hotel Astor Following a concert this aftemo()n at Jamaica High School, Jamai<la, L. I. the Union College Glee Club will ])resent its annual N'llw York concert ln the North Ballroom of Hotel Ast()r liLt 8:30 tonight. This will be followed by a dllJlce given in Us hono1• by the New Yorlt Alumni Association. TomorTow at 1:30 .P• m. the weekend will be elimaxecl by a coast-to-coast broadcast over sta.tion WOR. The group will return to tl1e campus Sunday. 'l'birty men RJe accompanying Dr. Elmet' Tidmarsh on the trip. For the purpose of assisting .June graduates in securing em- ployment after graduation from college, information concerning va- -cant positions and opportunities for placement In industry has been :flowing into the Union College Placement Bureau_ The demand for technicians is greatest in the division of Electri- cal Engineering. Positions remain vacant for young men who are in- terested in radio manufacturing in New Jersey, public utilities of New Yorlt City, the manufacture of ice · machinery, and the manufacture of cork. The Board of Education in New York City will subsequentiy hold eJCa.minations for those who desire to become instructors in Ge:r;teral and Secondary- schools, wh1le the folloWin.g year, positions for English and Science instruc- tors will remain vacant in a South- ern Prepara·tory sehool. · Graduates are wanted for sales work ln a well-known roofing com- pany as well as in a prominent in- surance com:Pany. Applications for .appointments to the U. S. Navy as flying cadets await the graduates' appl'oval, while an opportunity aiso exists to secure employment in the School of Retail of New York Uni- versity. Requests for information regard- ing placement of graduates have bee11 sent to many leading Union College alumni. Any seniors inter- ested in securing employment in , the above mentioned fields are re- 'quested to call the Union College Placement Bureau.

?age Two THE CONCORDIENSTS, FRIDAY, ·FEBR1UARY 18, 1938 as they are. The Student Council this yeaJ.' 11T r·o ~ ·rtt . might be criticized for what seems to he its \!.VlJU · Ja lJ t · · St..S fear to go forward, just as the student body: .------------~--------;, mig·ht be lashed for not waking up to th€ The Cicler Mill 1-lal.~ Il!~\Jse Met!ley Once there was a little crow who wouldn't say his prayers, NOTARY PUBLIC 'FOUNDED 1877 \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ 1937 Member 1938 J:bsodated CoUee,iate Press Imtribu tor of CoHe5iale Di~est REPRESS.NlED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Pt1b!Jshers Ro/JresutJtativtJ 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • Sl\fi FRANCISCO '!'he official newspaper of the students of Unlo11 College, l'ublished T.uestlay and FI•laays t!Irough- out the college year, except during Christmas a1•d Spriug recesses. Publication Office, The Gazette Press. 334 State Si., Sehenectady, N. Y ., Telephoue 4-4141 Ji:nteretl at the Sc.henedady Post Offl<:e a~ _________ ,_S~e~c~o~nu~C~'l~a~ss~-~~~ra~i~l~w~!a~l~te~I~'---------- Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a ) ear; delivered anywhere in the United Slateo;. illultorlal RIJoms, Silliman Hall, UniOil College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady.!.. 4-..::0..::1:::33:.:· __ _ Senior Board Hyman A. Enzer., .. , .......... Editor-In-Chief 11 S. S. S'uuth College-6-9728 Robert H. Fer·guson .......... Managing Editor l'sl Upsilon House-4-8710 Julius J. Bundgus ......... , ...... News Editor 9 S. S. South College-6-9728 Henry D. Hartmann .........• Feature Editor 7 U. G. D.--6-~620 Call R. Ttahman ................ Sports Editor Kappa Sigma House-4-8325 J olm H. Gilmour ............ Business Manager Delta Cpsilon Huust--4-7922 Marvin M. Miller .. Associate Business Manager Kappa .Su-- 4·7331 Alfred R. Seigle ........... Circulation Manager _____ --------'J\'(::UPo:cPe.:a::...:..S__:' U::_-_4::..·.c.7:c33:_::1 ____________ _ Junior Board A SSUCI.-\Tl!: b:DITORS Fredericlt W. Heauernbourg H. Wyman Hitchcoclt Rubert A. Saaf 1\.-lax Ll•u Jerome Smith Edward c. Itetartyk Hobert C. Waller, Jr. Alu.u c. \\'rana Sophomore Board Chrh;topht.:r Ca.n1mach:, C. Rus~ell Deyo, Hobert 1-:isn~r. Chrbtopher 1-'ahy, Walter Fallon, ~dwaril .\. 1-'itz, Jr .. :Stanely Gertz, Albert H. Hala~in, 'it•urg~,.. L. l'etk. La\\ rem:t! Y. Pelletier. ,J1·. Freshman Board i \1ul \\\ il!!d{t\r John Blnh'inger, L)avld Fail·lit·ltl, I )Oild.ld· Hab.;h, \\.illiam Hunlphrit-:-;, Johu Ll'\\ i~. Keuneth :\1ad\.~uzie, .John Philitw, :\fCirtimPr Hohill~. Hobert :~khullJ.erg, I.~a:-;ltar ~kh'\va.rtz.. Jatne~ 1-J. •rwinillg, Jallli:'S eliman. Issue Editor Wyman Hitchcoc], Assistants possibilities of political and social activity. Union College can pl'Operly complain to its: members uf lack of organization for ntain:- taining and inct·easing its endowment fund. When it is considered that this colleg·e hasi kept pace-in its facilities and achievements -with colleges with endow1nents three an.d four times our size, there is something to !Je proud of. Yet, at the same time we .consider there has been no comprehensive program tGJ en- large that fund, except by resorting to th.e alumni body. The senior class now has its insurance plan underway which :puts th.e problem right where it belongs-before the men wh0 will within the next four years be alumni of the college. The seniors at'e concerned most im- mediately, but every undergraduate -with some kind of concem for the college has to . accept this problem. It is part of the res:pol1- sibility contracted by becoming a member of a college of traditions and loyalties. For almost 20 years attempts have been made on and off to get a class endowment fund started. The senior class is now taking the lead again in b·ying to make effective an insurance plan which has double benefit: to the college and the individual. We are 10()]<- ing forward to financial security for Union and all the concomitant blessiHgs. HALE HOUSE COMMITTEE And once there was an eskimo, a •lady· of affa;il,s., And then the1'e \Vas an armadillo, a 'hedgehog aud a sofa pillow, A willow and an ocean billow and an mvl who put on airs. But this dranut.:tls personae wasn't half, I'rn telling you; For a dasl1 of r:nacar·oni, and of cal.f, and melted glue, And a ,turtle which was phony, Robert Saa:f, a naked gnu, Were eke .among those present in the Hale H.oU..Be Irish Stew. And though it's past belief, There wasn't aay beef, lAnd this isv-ei':Y true), In the Hale ::II~>use Irish Stew. There we1e pi dg:eons, there were widgeons, there were bats and there were ·ca:ts; There we1•e f.r-ozen alligators and effluvia fro:rn rats; There were slabs· of crabs and dabs scabs, rhinoceroses too; But not the sli grttest trace of beef In the Hale House Irish Stew. I sst down at the table And' I said, ·~oh, waiter, do Bring me, if .you're able, Some deligh'tflii Irish stew.\ I sought it; be br-ought it. I state it, I a:te it-- I rued it: I sj>ewed it! Thl\l e we1·e ooonkies, there were donl~ies, t.he1e were flunkies, baby sl~unk:ies, And a heap o:f little creatures all within tllat: fatal stew; Then they pla.c:ed some reptiles in it, cool~ed the whole for half a minute, Fed the best <Jf it to me and left the rest of it for you! a 0 0 Sing, Muses, the hardness of Fate. The conductor of this Col- umn, on the sta.if of the Idol and a member of the Advanced Compo- sition class, Is ln. a perfect position From the numel'OUS sustained complaints to spy on the competing magazine about the true or imagined conditions in which Dr. Johnson, disavowals notwithstanding, in tends to bring Hale House dining room it is fairly evident forth. But unf'ortunately, said con- th t th 'tt f t d t t t k ductor is h!1.3'd of hearing, and a e COffilTil ee 0 S U en S 0 a e care· whenever said. Dr. Johnson speaks of complaints has 110t been functioning as it to class of m:agazine he so incon- h ld veniently lowers his voice. Result: s OU . Spying negligi hie. 0 0 0 What is journalisnl at Union College coming to? By showing Editor Elnzer and \Jabie\ that a lot goes on he1 e without their knowing it <and that goes for· 99% of the Concordionites), we have been awarded a column. Omitting prefatol\ial remarks to smooth a path· which we expect will be 1 ough, we set to work immediately, ·roB up our sleeves and plunge deftly into an inexhaustible well of information. A, prominent Mountebank and Glee Club-er must dump one of these important activities for not making the Dean's List -- or will politics be played·~ Sig Phi Pledge • G•·egory replaces a Williams man as a beauty judge in Skidmore's Heaux Arts Ball contest tomorrow night. Hermits Bond & Witham are dueling with the Stoclt Mar-ket. To date they are in the I:Jlaclc. (\Them that have gets.\) He Iat·ely mentions it, but Dulie Nelson- missed Phi Beta Kappa by fraction at Middlebury ... Example of brotherly love: Two Kaps were quickly dropped from a course by their teaching brother. Hear Freddy Bronner (D.lJ.) does like- wise. Athletics, especially basket- ·baU and football, are supposed to build character, not vocabulary, Nels. Ray Lewis <football star turned playboy) rates .so highly with Prof. Doty that he drops in after class to say he CI>Uldn't make it that morning. The Kaps, compet- ing with the Alpha DeJ:ts for classi- cal honors, lose a good fight: the \A.D. musicale will precede the Kaps' by one month . . Charlie Waldron and Heidi are in Florida. Stopping for gas, we found the attendant a Sigma Xi, a Union alumnus and a Physics prof here for nine years ,(not 11ow). Also at the station was a truclc driven by another ex-Union-er. What hope senior? If the Chapel speakers must speak why don't they put some \umph\ into their voices ... Two things we can't stand: ill-mannered fr·eshmen weeklies at Hale House and th<>se who wear hats in Chapel ... Phi Delts take notice: Phil Lustig is making out better now that he's left you.r midst ... Bud Eipenbud's Union scholastic average was 97%. No wonder he's a bachelor. Compliments to Minken, who undertook to dive in the Col- gate meet on about ten minutes' notice-and for the first time. the bench a few yards away from the local jail's door they were se- verely reprimanded !Dy an i!!ate judge, confounded as to what he should d<J with three \collegiate gangsters\ as he· so ably termed them. Dell.n, If you haven't heard from the Westchester magistrate yet, you will shortly, Cast of the above drama: '(CENSOREJD.) Dr. Fox dislikes ultra luxurious fraternity houses, (Psi U.) yet the Administration's favorite house was recently ornated by two fac- ulty wives ... An excellent way to meet the Saturday bolting pl'oblem was used by Prof. Herrick (Eng. 24): A good alibi must be given by the absent student and an essay submitted on a pertinent subject Favoritism is played by the Glee Club officers: George Shaw, who went to New \Yorl~: last year and whose voice has not changed, was gyped this season. From Dan Cupid: David Wilder and Barbara Munger . . . Dayton and what's her name in \Criminal Code.\·. Chris Cammack and Prof. Kellog's daughter, a house Ma at Skidmore ... Another word and: Uncle Willy and Milt Elnzer would have started socking each other . _ . The O'Connell tale has j:!aused enough t~·oul:lle, but the Lambda Chi Alpha House should have been mentioned in the line-up Dick Day's ambition, Betty Rice, is pictured in the last ''Spur\ armed with wealthy William Weiss at the New York Hiltmore. Burges Johnson, professor of English (and writing) published a pamphlet compiling facts on the advisability of studying jou.,nalism Result: big newspapers questioned prefer a general college education to specific work in writing tech nique. Advance d composition classes are ridiculous; no one can be taught how to write, said The Wit, formerly Vassar's most popu lar preceptor. Freddy Wyatt sped to the Hive up north almost twenty-four hours after retut'ning to college ... Con tinentally-dressed M. Zabuesnic holds the most cultural class in a foreign language. J. Smith C. Fahy L. Sch,vartz E. Fitz The Hale House committee has undoubt- edly been approached by some dissatisfied students on the question of getting lighter luncheons, less expensive sandwiche-s, a. more vari.ed vegetable diet, etc., because sttch problems have been posed to The Conc01·<li- There wasn't any reply to last weel!'s Hale .F£ouse attack; perhaps because the Ceases have gone to Florida in tbe Lincoln, in order to relax and thi nlc up new ways of combatting th.e poverty occasioned by rising costs. However, I can state something of significance for all New York:er-.l!. The sign, Cock- tail Lotmge, Ona.ngerie, which once pointed in the Lobby of the Hotel Astor, meetin<!l ]llace of humanity, was removed one night last week. A Union student, Nm·th College's own Stanle~· B-ecker, is now the diabolic possessor of this truly memorable tt\op-hy. Another Union prospect for the Dictionary of American BiD>grcaphy! Old but still a go<Jd story: Over an extended week-end three promi- nent Union-ers campaigned West- chester's smart girls' schools. Go- ing a bit too far when they stopped at country estate begging a dinner, they found the Law after them. On We are wasting time researching for a column on which fraternity house really has been running \things\ on the campus and if any Union-er belongs to a social reg ister , . College sale tactics have been attacked by the Carnegie Educational Institute. Union, hold ing steadfastly to a policy of little academic and practically no ath letic publicity, now prominently ~tands as one of the few colleges relying on hel' reputation and his Friday, Februal'y 18, 3.938 UNION'S PLACE Despite loJ·al protests to the contrary Union CollegE' in the recent past has not been as hig-hly rated in the popular mind as have other small colleges of similm· long tradition. The feeling of shyness a:bout speaking of Union College because the embarrassing question-\where's that '?\-al\vays was ask- ed, has been experienced by many Union stu- dents. We have definitely been \small\ col- leg·e and there is no way of avoiding that fact. Of course Union men have kept 111 the front of public affairs. Our old and young nlumni have been making a record of high achievement which reflect.s upon the good name of l'nion. Likewise om· academic ::;tandards and attainment~ are recorded among- the best in the country. We are not \small\ colleg-e so far as accDmplishment is concerned. But there is something petty in the under- graduate attitude here which bogs down p1·ogress in collegiate circles. For example, there is great fear of criti- cism. The Glee Club could never stand the cut that sometimes it sings absolutely lousey, nor The Mountebanks be told its selection of plays is weak, nor the athletic department be questioned on matter of schedules-without feeling that those criticisms were personal attacks. Hale House has not been actively. criticized because of feat: of injuring personal feelings. The attitude has been to spare as much trouble as possible. Take for example stu- dent apathy-a marvelous field for editorial- izing. It all reverts to desire to keep things tory-so don't gripe al the sports' record. D. L. ensis by several students. We cannot advise an edito1·ial campaign purely on the basis of individual complaints to us, but we can see how a conunittee. spe- cially equipped to make recommendations for improvement and correction, can undertake a campaign of its own to make Hale House THEATRE II Book Review I With the appearance of \Of Hu- . man Hearts,\ critics lauded the ex- .!==============: a more pleasing place to eat in. Either the students on the C()mrnittee are not sufficiently interested in the betterment a o o Which will be all for tonight, Josephine. H. M. S. cellent performance of Mr. Charles D. Coburn, manager and· directing bead of the Mohawk Drama Festi- val, in his first screen role. The consensus of opinion was that a film career is in the offing for Mr. Coburn. of the dining hall or they are not well enough ir\\==========~ organized to make proper correction-if II M 0 T I 0 N ll there is any necessity to do so. !:..-=;;;======~ After appearing in \Vivacious Lady,\ starring Ginger Rogers, he will return to Schenectady in the spring to make preliminary plans for the 1938 Festival. The following are comments of the critics on Mr. Coburn's per- PATRIARCH While funeral serYtces for the late Ge()l'ge Daley were taking place last Friday, the spm·t::; world was stluck another blow at the same time IJy the death of James Ten Eyck, 86, veteran Syracuse t:niversity l'O\ving coach, ktwwn throughout the univet·se as ·'The Grand Old Man of Rowing-.\ He had no t·elationship with Union College, yet we must not fail to note the passing of a great public benefactor, whose contributions to the enjoyment of clean sport were im- measurable. Daley served the sporting- clien- tele through his writings, Ten Eyck throug-h his coaching. His was an active athletie career that ex- tended more than 75 y.ears, from early y()uth through his years as a professional oarsman, to his position as one of the great interml- legiate rowing instructors of the world. His 70th birthday was spent rowing- up the H:ud- son River from New York to Albany. Ten Eyck demanded courage and stamina from his cr.ews, yet he never required them to do more than he could do. Very often he would amaze his teams with feats of phys- ical endurance. Typica:] were the times he sent his boys on a cross-country jaunt dur- ing practice, while he would pace and outdis-' tance them himself. We''le alwt>-YS had a soft ,spot in . formance: our cardiac regi<Jn for Grace Moore. Said conditioJ1 may be due to the -\Too there is a singularly note- fact tllal sh<E was the first diva worthy contribution by Charles Co- to take the ]ldunge ln. Hollywood, burn, new to the screen, through a or to h.er ability to act with a rea- vetetan of the stage. His perform- sonable degree of intelligence; but, ance will mean a career for him mme likely, it's due \o her snythe- in the filnl!;.\-Los Angeles Times. tic good Iook:s ( or have you never ~\fn Clarence Bmwn's pictul'e, seen pictures 1>f the pre-Columbia 'Of Human 'Hearts.' Hollywood Grace?) Anr way, we were I ather makes the electric discovery that pleased with I'll Take Romance. Charles Coburn is a grand actor. Stop us if y-ou'Ve heal'd it, but the On the stage for 40 years, Coburn plot i:; unimJlor:·tant. Melvin Doug- never made a. picture before this·. las is very sm<Joth, as usual, and Now there is a stampede for his Helen Westley is particularly in the services, and, if he ever gets away groove. Stuart Erwin, Margaret from Hollywood, it will be because Hamilton and Ferdinand Gotts- money has no attraction for him.\ chalk add (o() the general merri- -Harrison Carroll in Los Angeles ment, while Grace splits a few Herald & Express. octaves fro10 e'Martha,\ \Madame -\Magnificent solo performances Butterfly\ an.d hillbilliana. on the part of young Gene Reyn- We lilted the ambiguity of cer- olds and Charles Coburn. A£ the tain scenes ~n<i remarks: witness doctor, Cobu.rn turned in one of the the part of tbe :picture where Erwin great performances of the season.\ and D1>uglas get in the wrong apart- -Ed Sullivan in Hollywood Citizen- ment and are invited upstairs by News. Esther Muir, J\!lr. Hays is slipping. -\Charles Coburn brings his sea- • * * soned stage talent to this, his Valldeville: 'This week, MajOl' screen debut, for impressive dis- Bowes' Annt-versary Review. Next play as the benevoLent, drunken week, Buck a.nd. Bubbles. doctor who inspires the boy's am- * * * bition, It will win applause any- Swing YoW' Lady, at the State, where.\-Los Angeles Daily Variety would sound vel'y inviting if Louise \Charles Coburn,_ veteran of the Fazenda were1~'t in the cast. But stage, makes his :first screen ap- don't let that keep you away; it pearance as a bibulous country doc-. might be· goO>d, tor and wins honors.\-Hollywood * ~ * Wyman Hbtchcoclt, who is said to Report-er. be a direct descendant of the \delightful performance by Legree famil:v :from the old South, Charles Coburn, Broadway stage is being coasidered for a leading veteran, in the role of the scape- role In a s::treamlined revival of grace, village . doctor.\ - James Harriet Beecl1er Stowe's famous Francis Crow in Hollywood Citizen- novel, to be <Called Uncle Tom's News. Pentbouse. !1.11'. Hitchcock, who once \A great stage sta:r, malting his attended Unio()n College, is noted for :first appearance on the screen, in- a successful :attempt to limit a cer- dicates that Charles Coburn is in tain columnist to five and three- Hollywood to stay.\-George Fisch- quarters inobes. er, Los Angeles Evening News. Taken state for state, American m)thology is the bunk. And it is hard to say which state can pile it on thickest in the making of folk legends. Other countries have fables abo·ut the \little people,\ ·but America cares only for giant tales the notable exception being R. van Winkle and the Catskill Keglers. Paul Bunyan, together with his Blue-eyed Ox, is only- one on a long list of Amel'ican giants. He is rivalled in size, strength, and brag, by John Henry, th.e Gargantuan Alabama nigger; by Kemp Morgan, Oklahoma oil-driller; and Davy Crockett and Ken Hardin, Arkan sas charnpio·n liars de jure. From Mike Fink, Ohio River boatman, down the Mississippi to Annie Xmas in New Orleans, fabulists have enjoyed the jetL d'esprit of the tall story. In the east, off the Nantucket Coast, any one, if he is geared up enough, can add another twist to the story of Stormalong, the sailor who created tidal waves by trail- ing his fingers in the water. If you can shovel it thiclt enough and quick enough, the people in the west, in Texas, will accept more version·s of Strap Buckner, who liked to kayo ten men at a swat or of Pecos Bill, the Arizona cow- boy, who used a rattlesnake for a quirt. Pecos Bill ha.d a red-headed green-eyed gal witb. a marvell1>us bus·tle. She tried to ride Widow- Maker, Bill's horse.; the 'horse bucked, the gal fell on her bustle, bounced, and every ·bounce got bouncier. Pecos Bill never figured out how to maka her s.top, and -on clear nights, Arizonians will show you the strumpet houncing across the face of the moon. By the waters of the river Pecos Bill sat down and wept, and now they call the river Silver River, on account of how this here Pecos Bill had silver tears. Febold Feboldson came from Ne- braska and he had a ·pig with a curleycue tail. Febold would fire off his gat, the pig would j\lllllp 11p and land so heavily- Its tail would stick in the ground. Febold would fire a.gain, and the pig' would jump up so quickly that a. )leautiful post- hole would mark the spot, One day, Febold got himself a machine gu.n. 'l'his eould go on forever . • , M.V.

away from were SE'l- an ivate to what he \collegiate termed heard magisttate Cast of the luxurious U.) yet the house by two fac- way to pl'oblem (Eng. be given by an essay subject ayed by the ::9haw, last year changed, Wilder ... Dayton in \Criminal and a house word Milt Enzer each nell tale has but the should n the line-up. Rice, is Spur\ armed Weiss at the professor of published a on the jOU]:na:Jism. questioned education tech- composition ; no one can said The most popu- to the Hive hours ... Con- Zabuesnic class in a researching fraternity running us and if any a social reg- tactics have the Carnegie Union, hold- of little caJly no ath- prominently few colleges and his- at the sports' D.L. America.n And it is can pile it of folk have people,\ but giant tales; being R. van Keglers, with his one on a long He is gth, and brag, Gargantuan Morgan, and Davy Arkan- jure. From boatman, to Annie fabulists d'esprit of the Nantucket is geared up twist to the sailor by trail- the water. If enough and people in the accept more who at a swat; Arizona cow- for a a red-headed a marvellous ride Widow- the 'horse on her bustle, ·bounce got never figured s.top, and -on will show across By the Pecos Bill sat now they call on account Bill had from Ne- a pig with a would fire jurnp u.p its tail would Febold would would jump peautiful post- spot. One self a machine f()rever •• , M.Y. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEB~UARY 18, 1938 Pag.e Three Tankmen End Year With M. I. T.; Courtmen at R. P. I. ~--~----------------------~----~----------~--~----------------~------------~ Swimmers Favored • UNION COLLEGE SWIMMING RECORDS 1 S F . • 1 ' EVENT-YARDS MADE BY DATE OPPONENT 'n .. eason . In a. e : 50 Freestyle L. Clapj>, '27 2-19-27 Williams :100 Freestyle C. Passe, '40 2-11-3B Amherst Varsity Five Rated ·220 Freestyle C. Passe, '40 2-12-3B RQchester\ Over 440 Freestyle R.OJ:>penheim, '34 1•9-32 Trinity* -150 Backstroke C. Perkins, '29 2-23-2!} Army• :·:zoo Breaststroke A- Gordon, '38 2'5-3B Syracuse• TIME :25. :54.9 2:27. 5:4J.4 1:56.4 2:46.8 INTRAM URALS Basketball Standings (Tiu·out;h Feb. 16} NATiONAL LEAGUE Basketball Results Feb. H- Slgtna Phi (19) •1 Neutl\'nls {34) Bowie 0 2 2 Coloby 2 0 4 ·Diedrich :l 0 61 Smith.J. 7 0 ll Gregory 0 0 0( Swal't 5 0 10 Callan 1 0 2 Johnson;\\'. 0 ·! Wells 4 lJ ~ Sai<lel 0 0 Wolfe U 1 li Barloiteti 0 ---1 8 3 Ut: 17 0 31 Entries Jor Boxing Bouts Close Saturday !Engineers; Last Game For Frosh 200 Relay Freestyle H.Teny, '30 B_ .Perkins, '29 J. Little, '29 2-12.c27 'Cornell 1:45. Kappa Sigma ............ . Neutrals ................. . 4 5 3 :l 2 2 1 0 * ll:: * O Delta Clti forfeited to lJelta Phi, 1 Entries close this Saturday after- noon for the annual intramural boxing tourney, one· of the most colorful .phases of the college spring sports festivities in March. Schedule of elimination bouts will be announced in the very near .future. Kappa Nu ............... . 1 Fell. 15. • .. The various weight classes dEsig- nated are the bantamweight, through 125 pounds; featherweight, 5 through 135 pounds; lightweight, ! through 145 pounds; welterweight, through 155 pounds; middleweight, Possible victory foi' at least two L- Clapp, '27 Union var.sity · sports teams that 300 Medley Relay D. Schumann, '33 have .faired none too well so far J. Mane:y, '34 2~11-:!3 Conn. State* Chi Psi .................. . South College ........... . Sigma Phi .............. . 3:31. this year is forecatJt for Saturday. G.Neese, '34 Engaging in its final meet, the 4(]() Relay Freestyle p_ Teare, '40 .swimming squad is highly favored p_ DeWitt, '39 to break a dogging record of 25 ·: B. Britten, '40 North College ........... . Sigma Chi ............... . 2-16-3& 'Colgate 3:51.6 consecutive deteats over a three- : c_ Passe, '40 Year period tomorr·ow afternoon in: * Made in away meet. UNITEQ LEAGUE 2 3 3 5 5 Ji.,eh. ·l!'i- Jletn '!'!leta ,\!lplla Delta PI 120) l'lli (l~l Geer 3 I 7 Shepard 2 1 Max\l\ell I 0 2 Stone 1 Shaw 1 0 2 Halstun 0 Mui\I'ay 2 0 4 nifenlm1··y II Merriman 1 1 3 Hathhun u Chappell 1 0 2 9 2 201 8 2 1R 'through 165 pounds; light heavy- weight, to 175 pounds; and heavy- weight, over 175 pounds. racing the Massachusetts Institute.· of Technology mermen in Foote , l:'ool at 2:30 o'clock. . At night, the Union varsity quin-\ tet will seek to regain the win colM: umn in its clash with the Rensse-, Phi Sigma Delta ........ . Alpha Delta Phi ........ . Beta Theta Pi - .... - ..•..• 5 3 3 2 2 1 0 . .. .. 0 Slgma Chi forfeited tu Smith Col· 1 lege. Sigma Chi i• there h)' elimirmt er\ 2 from further c·omJ•etition. Groups are expected to have a minimum of two members entered in order to receive 25 entrance points . Additional points will be Foote Memorial Pool Reoo·rds Delta Upsilon ......•...... 2 • .. .. given for winning fights. Alpha Phi Delta ......... . laer Polytechnic Institute omfit on J!:VENT-YARDS HADE EY the Lan.smgburgh Juni~r High court, 5(} ·Freestyle L. Clapp in 'l'roy. ln the preliminary, the: 100 Freestyle c_ Passe Uarnet freshma;n basketball team .22() Freestyle Roberts Theta Delta Chi ......... . Kappa Alpha . _ .......... . DATE COLLEGE 'TIME 2 4 5 Feb . .JIJ- Pltl Delta Psi UtlsllO·Il 'Ehota (31) (11) Bm.:ha.nan 5 0 10 Kingsbury 1 0 2 Noonan 1 0 2 Hatch 0 () u Myers. F. 1 2 1 D'hsrherer 1 I 3 Carson o. 0 0 H'embou rg 3 0 6 Mould 4 0 ~ Underw~>od 2 o 4 Ladd 1 u 2 :Hawkes 0 2 MAKE YOUR MEETING PLACE will als_o close 1ts court car::tpatgn: 44() Freestyle Neil by pl~ywg .th~ R. P. I. yearlmgs. · 150 Backstroke Haefele 2-19-27 Union, '27 2-11~38 Union, '40 1-16-37 Williams 1-16-37 Williams 1-12-35 Colgate 2-16-38 Colgate :25. :54.9 2:26. 5:22.1 1:4.7.4 2:39.4 AMERICAN LEAGUE Lambda Chi Alpha . . . . . . . . 4 Phi Delta Theta . . . . .. . . . . 4 0 Griffith 1 0 2 While stlrrmg up more. campus. 22() :Breaststroke E. 'Blackledge 1 Fay 1 1 3 followers than the_ two prev1ous wa-, 20 o Relay Freestyle H. Terry ter teams combmed, the Umon: ·c. Perkins natators surpassed fast pool record.s J I!.ittleo that were expected to stand tor: L. Clapp several years yet to come. The 300 Medley Relay E. Kotll.e heat•t-rending :tactor. wa~ that the: R..Fowler Dutchmen missed yiCtones by the D.:Gal't<Jn nanowest of margms. 1 40() .Relay Freestyle P. Teare Techs Not Too Strong ' P.Dewitt The Techs come to Schenectady:. B. BZ'itten Union, '30 2~12-27 Union, '29 Union, '29 Union, '27 2-1:1.-38 A:mherst A:mherst Amherst Union, '40 2-16-38 Union, '39 Union, '40 Union, '40 1:45. 3:25.5 3:51.6 t()roorrow boasting a none too glori-,. C. Passe ous past. 'frin.ity Uollege smothered:;----------------;---------------- the ~.,;ambridg<:, M~ss.,mermen ln .. to:B l'\ L T•tl Fencers Wait Elimination 1s at the begmnmg of year whtle . OWIng eague I e also outpointing the Union tank·M h Sl t d llll\ d Bouts for CollegE Title Equad 41 to 28. ~ut local hopes are ate a e . iu.On ay based on the fact that the Dutch- • men have advanced brilliantly since'· their Trinity meet and that M. I. T. · The Delta Upsilon fraternity has remained far behind in any bowling team, winner of A:merican attempt to duplicate Union·s su-· League honors, will face the Theta perh feats. , Delta Chi fraternity squad, title- Coach Joseph Wheatley's constant holder of the National loo'p, Man- and Joyal devotion to the Union day afternoon at 2 o'clock on the swimmers in the form of lengthly , Reuter Academy drives for the and detailed tutorship is expected championship of the college Intra- to provide the added spark to turn fraternity Bowling League. failrues of the past into victory in. While the D.U.'s coasted to vic- this season finale. No one more. tory with ease in the A.merican than coach Wheatley would enjoy League competition, dropping only seemg his ''bo;y·.s\ climax their ever-. one game in the 21 played, the fighting attempts into a conquest' Theta Delta Chi's experien~ed close and smash the 25-meet jinx. , rivalry throughout the National Meanwhile, at Troy, the Garnet League race from the Pbi Delta varsity quintet should catch their' Theta pinners. It was ()n!y after a traditional Trojan rivals on the re- rolloff match, the result of a dead- bound after tne latter's complete lock between the Theta Delta Chi tailure to win one of the seven and Phi Delta Theta teatrul at the games thus far. yYith comp~e~e rest end of the regltlatlon tou.:rnament trom their medwcre exhiiJJtwn at schedule, that the Theta Delts lv.liddlebury Wednesday, the Dutch- emerged victorious Wednesday aft- men should chalk up their fourth ernoon. ,-ictory over R. P. I. Union lost .to By a margin of 242 pins, Thet17 Colgate at Hamilton, 4'1 to 31, wh1le Delta Chi turned back the Ph1 H.. J::'. I. fell before the Red Raiders, De Its for first place honors in the 54 to 18, at home, perhaps the re- National Leagne, 2406 ~o 2:164, win- suit of its consta.nt shifting of line- ning the first two games with 870 ups in an attempt to find a win- and 740 sc01·es to 715 and 723 tal- nmg combination. lies, but losing the final chucker ---o 696 to 726. Joseph Stiefvater cap- s' •rnn' mel'S Break Record, tUI·ed individual honors with a 545 ·• three-game contribution to the Are Defeated by Colgate T. D. c. sum, while his teammate, Louis Maples, bowled a nigh 203 Wednesday, Feb. 16.-Although continuing its general policy of . breaking at least one pool. record in five of the six meets this year, the Union College swimming team . suffered a 45 to 30 setback at the .J:ands of the Colgate University mevmen in Foote Memorial pool tonight. single. Donald Liffiton, running second to Stiefvater in three-game scores, rolled 494 for Phi Delta 1'heta. ----o--- Union Five Drops Game 'fo Middlebu1y, 41-30 Middlebury, VL, Feb. 1~Unable to maintain its close fii st-half check during the second part of the game the Union College var- sity basketball tearn suffered its 3econd defeat in four days in los- ing to the Middlebury College .var- sity quintet. 41 to 30, here tomght. With members of the intramural fencing team divided intc sections for foil; epee and saber weapon practicEs, plans will be fcrmulated next week for elimination bouts leading to college tit!~ matches during the program of Intramural Championship contests in March. Under the direction of Coach Merton L. Zubres, the fencers have been working two hours each Tues- day and Thursday afternoons in Alumni gym for the past several weeks, first learning fu11damentals then focusing attention on a par- ticular weapon. Students expected to participate in the fencing program are: foils, Feliciano Gonzalez, Laskar Schwartz, Walter Shaw, Warren DeLoll<l, Jerome Smith, Alden Mul- lins, Laughlin MacKinnon, George Holmes, Frank Mele, Warren Kim- mye, Leonard Perless, Rcbert Het·- man, .rose Freire, Arthur Lawrence, Myer Ries, Max Len an!l Ellis Eis- enstein; epee, Kimmey, Schwartz, DeLollo and William Walker; and saber, Robert Eisne-r, Harrison Karp, Stanley Gertz alld :Eisenstein. Psi Upsilon ....... - . . . . . . 3 Delta Phi . . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . 2 Phi Gamma Delta . . • . . . . . . 2 Phi Sigma Kappa. . . . . . . . . 1 Delta Chi . . . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . 0 ----0---- Basketball \21\ 2 3 3 :l 4 The third round of each bracket mnst be completed on or before Saturday, February 19. Opponents must arrange their own matches which may be played between 10:?0 a. m. and 1:30 p. m. each <lay m the presence of either Mr. Ketz or Mr. Lawrence. The semi-final round of each bracket must be completed on or before Saturday, Feb. 26. Boxing Entries for the Boxing T<Jurney may be placed in the intramural box until 5 o'clock Saturday after- noon February 19- There is not an appr~ciable number of entries in any of the class~s except the 145- 155 pound divisi()n, Many groups still lack the required number of two representatives in order to gain their entrance points. Each en- trant should stipulate his weight on his respective slip. Intramural Basketball Schedule February 18, 7 :3() - Phi Sigma Kappa vs. Phi Gamma Delta. February 19, 1:15- Alpha Phi Delta vs. Kappa Alpha. 2:15- South College vs. Neutrals. 3:15- Psi Upsilon vs. Delta Phi. Charles \Chuck\ Passe, brilliant Garnet record smasher, gave Union its two in<tividual event victories in the 50-yard and lOG-yard free style dashes, befOl'e Robert Fer· gusen, outstanding Colgate back- stroke at titi, finished first in .the 150-yard ewnt with a 1:56.4 \Jme that tied the college mark. Then Colgate swimmers added a new pool standard in the 200-yard breaststroke group in which Ed Blackledge raced to a ne;y rec~rd of 2:39.4, marking the thud time this season the event time had been surpassed. An appropr·iate climax to the meet came in the final 40<>-yard free style relay with Paul Teare, Peter Dewitt, Burt Britten and Pa:sse bettering their own mark set in the Amherst meet on Feb- 'rhe Dutchmen opened the fray employing a man-for-man defense that enabled them to battle the Vermont live on even lel'I'ns .for the major part of the intlal 20 min- utes. Just before half-time, Middle- bury forged ahead to a 17 to 14 advantage with Eriksson and Chal- mers contributing most of the points. THD I(I~IT John Schultz, Lou Carr, Herb Watson and George MiJ!er e~ch rang up five points fo:r the Union squad; of which Hud;lon Tanner was the only player- falling to gar- ner at least one point. ruary 11. summaries 300-yard medley relay-Won by Col- gate (R<>bert Ferguson, Edward Blacll- The summary: ledge Edward Kaye). Time-3 :29.6. . , .. 1 .ddlebury- G . .:_ F .• _!· &20~ya.rd freestyle-Won by Guy \~ _ Low, c. ; second, George Urice, C.; .mriksson-;-rf ~ . , .... 1 3 5 third William Derrick, U. 'l'ime--2 :33. If 2 2 6 50-yard freestyle-Won by Charles .Jhalmers, '· '· ·\ \· · 0 0 Passe, u.; second. Thomas Leverich. Wolcott, lf · · · · · · · · · · · • · () 9 c.; third, Paul Teare, U. Time- :25.5.: Anderson, c ·. · · · · • · • • · 4 1 3 Dive-Won by Jules Mason, C., 92.~7 · Schragle, c ........ · · · · 1 1 4 points; second, Harry Myers, U., 78.15, Conley, rf ............ 2: 0 points ; thir~, Ca,ptam Ralph Corcorall, Cunningham, rf , .. , •. 1 2 4 . c., 4().23 p<>mts. 1 4 2 10 100-yard freestyle-Won . by P~se, Krauszer, g · · · · · · · · · · · 15 11 41 u. ; second, Burdick ~rittenL U.; thn'il,. Totals , ....... · · · · ·- · Fred Aldl'idge, C. Ttme- :b6.6. G 150-yard backstroke-Won by Fergll- Union- ·· son, c.; second, Prlc~ Phelps, C. ; third, Watson, rg , , • , , , ...... 2 Robert Miles, U. Ttme-1 :56.4. (Tied 0 college recoL'd.} Tanner, rg •' • .... , -\ .. 200-yard breaststrolte - Won by Schultz, lg · .. · · · · · · · · · · 2 Blaclcledge, c. ; second, Captain Arnold Miller, If .......... - • • · · 2 Q()rdon, U. : third, Robert Glennice, C. Smith, c , , . , .. , , , , . , .. , 1 Time-2 :39.4. (New pool record.) W'b 1 l. 440-yard freestyle-Won by Chat:Ies I er ey, c · • · · · ·- · · \ · Rath, c. ; second, Kaye, C. ; thll'd, Buchanan, rf .. · · • - · · • · 0 Francis Dunniga-n, U. Time-5 :49.3.. . Carr, If .......... •- • • · • 2 F. P. 1 5 0 0 1 5 1 5 2 4 0 2 2 2 ii 1 1 1 A NEW ARROW COLLAR FOR YOUNG MEN THERE are times when the occasion calls for a white starched collar-whether it be a House Party weekend, a trip to the city, or an importaAt Satur- day evening date .... The Kent is a new style Arrow collar with wide spread dnd square corner points.. It is set off porticularly well when worn with a colored shirt. 25c 400-yard freestyle-Won by Umon Palmer, If .• , .....•.. - • 0 (Teare, Peter J)ewitt, Brittin, Passe). Busino, If . , .... , , ... _. 0 Tlme-3 :51.6. (New pool and colleg-e 10 record.) •rotals ........... · · • · · 1 10 1 so·L-----------------------------------~ 14 3 31 8 1 17 • * * Plli Sigma 'I'Iteta D~lta Delta (37) Chi (21) Paul G 1 13 Hutchins 'I 1 Dwore 1 0 2 Garnet 4 0 Seigel 1 0 2 Carroll 1 0 2 Schultz 4 1 9 Case 1 0 2 Kollln 3 0 6 Malcolm 0 ·0 0 Epstein 2 0 4 Schro-n 0 1 l 17 3 37j 10 1 21 SPRUCE AT REUTER'S BOWLING ACADEMY 14B Clinton St. UP FOR INITIATION ACME BARBER 509 UNION ST. NEAREST THE CAMPUS CA2ETTE PRESS Printing cARR OW COLLARS ON YOUR NEXT DATE Wear an ARROW STARCHED CoLLAR You'll be amazed to see how much a detachable white starched collar can do for your appearance. Try DuNCAN, most favored by young men. 25C each ARROW SHIRTS, TIES, HANDKERCHIEFS & UNDERWEAR

Page.Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1938 Epstein Stresses Sodal Problems In Chapel Address CALENDAR 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly, Spealter, D. Richat·d Weelto;, '28. \ Diesel Development Play Course to Give Explained to A. I. E. E. Modern 'Coriolanus' Profs Flunk Bridge Test History was in the malting last Tuesday night, when the Chi Psi's welcomed the faculty bridge team at the lodge. The swaggering professors smiled condescendingly as they re- moved their overcoats and pre- ,pared to show their students how to play contract. Outing Club Weekend. Members of the Outing ·Club will joumey te> their cabin a:t North Creek: this weekend . fot' skiing. J<aclr Be:r,gstrom and Warren Gam- mons l1ave enrolled ·in Otto Schneib's racing school at Lake Placid far the two%da,y session on Sattlrd&y and Sunday . I --- :;:30 p. m. Swimming meet, Union v,;. M. I. T., Foote Pool. ' Wednesday, Feb. 16-The Diesel I engine wiU not entirely replace the· Tlle Play Production Course un- 1 steam and electric ·engine but it ~er the directio-n of Edward Carroll wH1 play an irnporta 11 t part in the Is now .111 the .fina:l stages of re- transportation of the future, ac-j hearsal for, t~e J?resent~tion , of c 0 tding to Mr. John c. Davh;on,, Shakespeares Conol~nus . Ma1ch Sllltday High State Official Urges Coming Generation to Healize ~tatus Thursday, Feb. 17.-The :Honor- able Henry Epstein, Solicit a I' Gen- eral of the State of New Ym·k, in a rhnpel >'Pf'Prh !CI th<' rollPg-P today ur·ged the coming genera:tlon to I realize the social adjustment. .plob- lem which faceR them and to- find a ~olution for it. To the assembled J!l\OUp he proposed the questi<m: \Is it perhaps time that the law accept and translate into public pol icy the pl\inciple that rnan., dependent upon machines .for· his very life, ha:o an interest, an equit:-.· in the }JN>duc- tivity a.f that machine, which might prevent it.s being taken from him 11:00 a. m. · Sunday Service, Me mot ial Chapel, Speaker, Hcv. Kr:nneth B. Welles. V.'estminster Church, Albany. ·!.00 p. m. Organ Recital, Me- morial Chapel, Miss Helen HPn~haw ami Tony Shar.pe, Jr., '38. . Diesel expert of the Amet·ican Lo- 15 and ~6 m conn~ct10n . Wl1h the comotivt' Co. This point was:. work ·b~mg don~ m Dt. Har?ld bteught out in an address to the Blodgett s class m. SJ?.akespeauan monthly meeting of .the A. r. E. E. · L~terature. The play will be stag~d tonight, in the Electrical E:ngi-. Without the use of scenery and. m nee 1 ing Building. . rno~ern dress 1 the costumes .bemg Mr. Davison explained to the' destgned to _InHtat~ the dress of As fhe evening passed, hew- ever, lhe smiles faded into thoughtful frowns, and it be- came apparent that the situa- tion was serious. Even the once The ·Clul> has been invited to the Dar-tmouth Ski Weekend on Feb- l'Uary 25; 26 and 27 at Spy (}lass Hill in tl1e White Mountains. Thme they will have the· privilege of running the famous· Hell!s High- way ~rail' on Mount .Moosilauke. :llnmla~- mPPting- thE' progt·Pss that Diesel, modern Fa.sCist nations. . I development has made in the past. . T~e techmque empl_oyeu wtll be I mighty Bill Ketz and Tiean Garis were unable to turn the tide. The undefeated faculty bridge team had met their Wa- terloo. Acc0rding te the epitaph, the Chi Psi's won by 2,500 points. --~·o~--- -1:30 p. m. Public Speaking few years and how it is now being, s1m11ar. to that., use_d_ 1~ the class~ Class, Old Chapel. ue~ed in thP field of transportation. p~oductwn of Wa1tm\ for Left~ Dr. Jl1 ~ldron in. Florida ts:UU p. m.- ... 1:;\ot·Jc>:o of the Up- One of the main .points in favor of t·ecently on the . Mountebanke s era,\ Old Chapel. Diesel power is the .Jaw cost of stage. Characters Will be sc~ttered Dr, .Charles N. Waldron, sec- retEuy of Union College, is now enjoying ·his annual winter's vacati-on· in Florida at the In- dian :River Hotel, Rockledge, Fla. Dr. Waldron is enjoying the sunshine with his family and Heidi. He will return to the C<Jllege about the middle of NaTch. ------- ------------ ope 1 ation, fuel for this engine cost-· ~hroughout the .audience, represen~­ mg only about one-fifth tha.t of the wg Roma? cttize~s, and Senators K • f D 'f10 steam engiue. and the fact that and Volsctam sold1ers. . 1 Ill 0 · J\.OlUeyn .i tl.ese engme;; can give many mot·e T~e _number of scenes m che B C t • , hours ut set·vice each year than·, ongmal play have been reduced e at onvoca IOn can a <>team engine. Sev_eral Diesel flOm t\~enty-etght to fourteen. They Philomathean Societ~ Meets Hamilton 'Coday without his· ind_ividual or co.llective --- assent?\ Tribune City Editor, Father, Jocomotivs >WP. now makmg r.egular , h~ve also J:lee~ ad~pte_d so that ~hey 1 uns in the west and the local w1U c~mtam trnpl!catwns .to situa- wol'l's are building more. The lee- t1~~s 1~ cont~~~orary soCiety .. tme was illw<t·rated by slides. Conolanus \\as produce~ b~ the The debating team begins a week- end of extensive activity this after- !11!. Epstein r efetred hb t·emm k> . in particula-r to the 70 per cent of I Union Sophomore Will ________ 0 _ _ Roslyn Group of the Wo1ks Prog- r:ess At.!rninistration in New York City shortly after H was ·Chosen for the course. This type ot pro- duction is also following out the t1 end indicated in the production of \Julius Ceasar\ by Orson Wells in New York this season. noon when Bernard Krause, '39, and Robert Walter, '39, oppose the rep- 11•1111111•••••••••••• ••••• our population who is earni11g only Donate Tablet enough to \uppl)o- the bare n<>ces- New Prc-Thtedic Society Forms Governing Board sities of life. \Society lte ::;aid, ·•must find some solution to the maladjustments of its o;odal an<l economic life befot£• it bee ome:; a p1 ey to terror which is rngendered by despair. He cited as a typical example a community depPnJent un one indu,;try for its livelihood which demand~ that tha.t indu>try remain in the community regal dless of the fact that it may mean economic 1uin. \'The necessary solution to .,;uch problems,\ declared .).!J. Epstcm, \1~ only being na.lized by thi~ genera- tion:· Fornterly a man·~ lmsine~s and home were h.b castle and what he did with then'l \'\,\as his conce1 n. Today, such a situatiun is impo~si­ ble. Society nm.st interfe1 e. '\The law ha:; tcco,;niz:rd and tl8n«lated into public pulic-y the obLigation~ of government to the gu-vet·ned.\ As to the cornpletc solution, it n- mains something- which the next ,;enetation wtll ha•·e to find. -- - -{)- - --- Class Endoltn1ent Fzu1d '\'hen l.\nion Colleg<· celeb1·ates its H3ul bit·thday at its annual! Fou!ldets\ Day Convocation Ftiday mol ning, Februat·y 25, great, gr·eat, ~.;l<'at. gtandchildren of Dircl{ l{unwvn, tlll' leader in tlte found· ing ol. thL• n>Hege and the object of this year·:; commemorative exer- cises, will lla ve )Jl inclpal rules, They a1e Lewis Beck Sebring, Sl'., ·9:2, a gteat, great, grand::;on, Lewis Beck Seblin~. Jr., '23, a great, gt eat, grand!:5on, and Lewis William Hallenbecl{, '10, a great. great, great, ~rand-nephew. Wedmsday, FPb. '16 At the sec- ond mt'eting of .Ute newly-formed PI e-J:Iledicc. l Society, a govet·ning board of four memb<'l'S was ap- pointed. The board consist of the followmg membets. Geo1ge Hemp- stead '41. Zygmunt Peter Grabicki '40, David J.alk '31) and William L. Ladue \38. The governing board was chosen upon the suggestion of Dr. James w. !llavor, who stated that a board is more mobile in accomplishing governing duties, and will not be dominated by any one individual but will act as .an integrated unit. Each class in the Pre-Medical di- vision SPlect<>d its rept·esentati ve Selectioa of a faculty adviser is being discussed by the Society a~d the results will be announced Ill the near future. ----o- .. --- Where Oh Jf'here Has .Mr. Sebring, Sr., a prominent consulting civil enginE'er of Sche- nectady. and hi.s son, an editor of the \'\\ Yo1 k Hetald Tt ibune, will contlibute a \'ilvct grey Tenne~se I mat bl<> tablet, flamed in a two inch black Bt.•l!<ian mat ble bottler, 011 which i\ inscribed the chief contri· bution,; of Dir·ck Romeyn. Hallen- beck, a sophomore in college, will unveil the tablet which will be mounted in the Memorial Chapel Our \Little\ Dog Go11e? . Vearing- ll!Ull{i(ll.ration floor, immediately in front and centet· of the chancel. Lost. Vincent, the sweetheatt (ContinuE-d :from Pagp- D administratiVE' costs m llnancing an E>ndowment pro~r-am by a colleg-e it- self can be talten up by a.n insm·- ance eompany. The collPction of an- nual payments is the conenn of the company in;;tead of the college and the weat slack in alumni .;;up- portets is taken up by active cam- paigns for sustaining endowment while ml'n me still close to college. Mr. SPbring, Jr., will also be one of Sigma Chi. He was last seen of t h<> principal speake1 s at· the around the .Chemistry Building Convocation, delivering- the bio- Wednesday afternoon about 4 g1aphical \ketch of the Reverend o'clock. Vincent is a. big black Doctor Dirck Romeyn, the Dutch Newfoundland dog with a white Reformed pastor who played such spot on his chest. He is about a significant part in founding the a year and a half old and two first non-~ectarian college by unit- and a half feet tall. His license tng hundreds of Mohawk Valley number is 321581. residPnts. of sevPr a! 1 E>ligious de- Will anyone who sees Yin- nominations, m furnishing the cent or has any information as mean,; for its ~existence fwm to where he is please call the been propo~ed off~rs to every man whirh faC't it nlsn 1 PCPiw·d its nante Sig-ma Chi House. The telephone The insuran<·c•· plan which has who enterc .a.ny field of endeavor 1 of \'Union.\ . I number is 3-1855. <>n opportumty t<> take care uf two: __ _ 0 _ _ . _ _ Bulletin: Vincent has just obligations at one time: providing 1 bef'n found near the Civil Engi- for personal beneficiaties through I Dining Room Hours Changed I neering building. However, he life insurance, and suppot·ting the was without his collar and li- colleg-e through Jegulat .contl'ibu-1 --- cense. tions. BPginning immediately, there will 1 -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~;;;~ Although Gul11ae and Smith were be a change in the Hale House din- Iii pessimistic of the oucce\s of put- ing roum huut·os. Henceforth on ALL LATEST NEW ting over an inoutanee program for wet'lulays, breakfaost \\ill be served I · class endowment because l)f tl,e fl'Olll 7:Hi to 9:30, lunclt from IZ:20 and USED RECORDS small numbPr of students vvho took to I :35, and dinnt'r from 6:00 to 1 out policies last year. the members 7:15. On 15undays, brE>akfast from ' Also of the council agreed that the plan U:OO to 10:00, dlnner from 1:00 to was feasible and should be pushed 2:15, and snJJper from 6:00 to 7:15. Automatic Pho·nographs to the limit. F R t Any man taking a $1,0()0 policy or en out under the suggested plan p1o- By Day or Week vides that the fir-st $100 in dividends DeWitt's Lunch Room :. made on that policy be tur·ned over and Tap Room Columb•l\\\ to the college. 'Thus, within about ~ 1 fi d . .d d . 11 We Serve Better Food C 7 years the rst lVl en s WI Novelty o. accumulate and the college will 1 e- for Better Health ceive that amount. The acc1.l!rll.llaferl U8-J2(l Jl\Y ST. dividends aiter that period o-o to Opp. New City Hall 406 Smith St. the holder of the policy and all the money paid in by him, of cour·se, re- mains in his po~ession. ----10--- Japanese Color Printing I Art Show11 by H. I. Olds 1 GUERRA PHARMACY HRUGS, J>i~ESCRU'TIONS, SUNDRIES SF;RVE SANDWICHES AND LIGHT LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 29c 600 Union St. cor. Bari'ett Phone 2-9419 · ' The art of malting Japanese color I prints was demonstrated Tuesday evening at the <lid Chapel by :r.rr. ·~-;;;;;;;~;\;;;;~~;;~~~~~§§§§§§§§~~~;;;;;;;;~ H. Irving Oldl3, who has spent the 1 :;, major portion of his life in .Japan, I and who was engaged to speak here I through the Spencer Lecture Fund. .:\l.lr. Old~ concluded on Wednesday a fom-day vi8it to the college. 633 State St. Thru to Nott Terrace PHONE 6·3456 resentatives of Hamilton ·College in ·: : Clinton, N. Y., in a platform de- 11 11 bate at 4:3{) p. m. The subject is, 11 • il'\\'f· ·. RON·IZE T•H·E : Resolved, that the parole &ystem .- M as now administered in the United : '1: States is detrimental to the best 11 • interests of criminal control'. The =: •.ui,.N·· I'·O·.N· ., N. N =: Union team is defend'ing the affhm- ativc side. ---·--0---- New Doet~rs' Office Ready ---- II • The new doctor's office which On Monday, Union will debate the 11 • has been partitioned off from the Swarthmore debaters over Station 11 • Trophy Room on the third floor of WIP in Philadelphia. Charles B. : : the gym is completde and ready to Honikel, '38,Fa1Rlober~40De~lzller, h'318d; II <!>·--· ~ • function as before. and Walter on, , WI up o • • A new ultra-violet ray lamp, new the affirmative side of the ques- : : steel desk, chah' and filing cabinet, tion, Resolved, that college athletes 11 11 and a new sinlt have all been in- should be paid. li 11 stalled in the office. The walls The University of Delaware Wlll :. TONY :. have been re-modeled and the floor play host to the Union debaters scmped and varnished. at Newar, Delaware, on Tuesday in 11 • The former· office consisted of a second platform debate. T·he sub- II • two rooms while the new is a ject is. Resolved, that cornpulsory : ~ovE.RT.ISES : larger room, one end of which is rnilitaty training should be abolish- '• 1'4. · . · ' · a partitioned off by a curtain. The ed from all educational institutions. II • trophy l'Oom will serve the same 'Honikel and Denzler will ar-gue the : : purpose as before and will also be affirmative side of the question. lllllllll••••••••••lllllllllllll used as a waiting room for the doc- -=;-;-;-;-:::::;;;;;;;;;;;:::;;;;;;:::;:::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::;;;;;;;=:;;=:;;;;=fj tor's office. I': The office hours will be from 4:00 P. M. to 5:30 P. M . For Houso Linen Service PHONE 4-3166 AMERICAN COAT, APRON & LAUNDRY COMPANY I 03() Barrett St. MILK SO RICH YOU CANWHIP THE CREAM Produced Under Strict Laboratory Control For Daily Service PHONE 4-3121 General lee Cream Corp. WE FEATURE THE MODERN AGE BOOKS 'WITH SUCH TITLES AS: LITTLE CAESAR-W. R. Burnett LA GUARDIA-Jay Franklin THE DARING YOUNG MAN ON THE FLYING TRAPEZE-William Saroyan PERIL AT EN[) HOUSE-Ag.atha Christie FOR 25c • UNION COLLEGE BOOK STORE lT.-::.:::.::.:.:::.::.:.::.:.::.:.:.:::.===·:.:.:.::.::::.:.:.:.::.:::.:::.:.:.::::.:.:.:.:.:::.::.:.:::=.==:.::.::::::.:.::.:.:.::.:-------1 : i I II 66 ~ tn\llcdl Tr ~ W. 1L.. ~~A I t , I \liT \UJ ll tUJ llll ~ 11. ~ I ' I 1: Y (())1UL JFiJTild [tt() 99 I L • u~ing printing blocks ~hich he ' had engraved himself, Mr. Olds I made several ptints to illustrate ~;;~~~~~~~~~~~ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;~~~~ the pt oce:;s, Japanese pz int.9 are illustrative of life there between . 1650 nnd 185(}, he said, and are pri- I marily the work of hm1dreds of 1 obscure craft•men mndP for ,.;ale' to the wealthy cla>se,;. ii AND THERE'S A WEALTH l t , I :! 0 F IN F 0 R M AT I 0 N I N T H E l Mr. Dolds char·acterized the nrint\ as merely suggestions o:f g1eatez· beauty. Lacking shading, facial ex- pressions, an.d many of the quali· CLOVERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVICE Phone 6·81 04 919 State St. ties of Occid·ental m t, th••y <>mpha-, ~~;;;;;;~~;;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;~~~~~~;;;;~~ size Jines. ~ -----·<> ft'ox Hon!He-d by L. I. H. S. President Di::o:on Ryan Fox ha.s ! been elected an :honorary member of 1 the Long Island Historical Society, 1 one of t·he ol<iest in the counlt')·. i The official announcement from the .I society, J'eieased by Richard M. Cahoone, state.,;, \The Committee, , recognizing the service rendered to I' this Society by Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, who made the joUJney f1 om Sche- 1 nectady to Etooklyn to deliver a most original and interesting ad- 1 dress before the Society, elected Dr. 1 Schenectady· Engraving Co. 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS Fox an hotHJI <o>ty memL~r of the 1 Society.\ l,b=;;;;;;;;;;;;==-;;;:;;;========================~ I; FORTHCOMING ISSUES OF fHE I II CONCORDIENSIS. l t ~ I t! • r I :l Subscription Price $1.50 1 H ISSUES: FEBRUARY IS·~JUNE I j: \ \ II ADDRESS LETTERS TO: CIRCULATION MAN.AGER CONCORDIENSIS UNION COLLEGE SCHENECTADY, f\1. Y. H l !.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,.,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,\' \'\\\\ '\\'\\'\\\ \\\'\\'\\\\ \\' ''\\\\' \ ... \\'\\\\\ \\'\\\\\\'\'\\\'\'\' J ------·-----~----~------------------------------------_.--~-~----·------

will at North skiing. Gam- in Otto at Lake session on ited to the on Feb- Spy (}lass Thme of High- sec- is now winter's the In- enjoying s family to middle • • • NN • • ·• • • ;. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5 • • • t I 9 ______ J z 511 D. A. R. Will Aid Worthy SttJdent Vol. LXI., No. 35 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1938 Third U.C.C.A. Concert to Be Given Wednesday PRICE FIVE CENTS Should Students Be Limited In Activities Participation Idol, Idle Interval, Rival Magazines ho'f:Sse~:~u~t%ne~t~:~~s p~~~fesw~~ :Make Ap1nearence on Camp.. us Day Apart March 1. The funds will go into a '.I:' Faculty Women Aid Scholarship Fund Professors, Students State View Pro and ,Con; 5 Stu~ dents, 6 Faculty Members Suggest Variety scholarship fund. Idol Long--het·alded, Critic Magazine Has Appeal Idle Interval Second Issue Is Improve- ment Over Last; Make-up Good of Solutions to Problem Should participation in undergraduate activities be lim- ited? Is there an unfair monopolization of high student offices which rwevents the most efficient functioning of activities'? At 2:3{) o'clock there will be ta- bles at the campus homes of the George H. Dantons, George D. Kel- logs, Peter I. Wolds, James W. Mavors, Charles F. Garises, and at Silliman Hall. At 8:30 o'clock, Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox will entertain a Say Soliciting obs-ervations un these questions The Concordien- sis has questioned six faculty members and five students and herewith reproduces the statements in part: THE FACULTY 4o THE STUDENTS Professor William W. Bennett, Charles H. House, Jr., '38, one ac- ~tudent coordinator: The. extra-cur- tivity: As a senior whose outside ricular activities them:;elveil :ouffer activity bas been confined to mem- most ftom this evil. Students who bership in the honorary Social Stu- are involved in too many activities dies Club I feel that neither re- ar who are trying to earn par-t of striction of extra-curricular rna- their college .expenses and at the nopolists nor any other measure same time take part in activities do short of a threat of e:xpulsion from not have the time and energy to do the institution would lead. some of a good job. I do not favm faculty the students at Union to \go out\ restrictions as a means of curing for the usual campus activities. this evil. A demand by the college Many students feel, as I do, that community for higher standards of time not devoted to college's main performance might be of some help. function, study, should be left free, The present situation is confused as so th:at the student may have a a result of politics, fake competi- chance to develop that habit of leis- tions, low standards in making urely living which, alone, can pre- awards and general apathy. Some. serve his individuality in a world kind of grading system applied to 1 where efficiency experts and \hurry those who participate in activities hurry, hurry,\ threaten to make would be enlightening to say the machines of men. Certainly the least. . feverish days of the college activi- Profe.sso•· Bronner ties man resemble too closely the Professor Frederick L. Bronner, social .studies: I recall hearing one of my colleagues orate over 30 min- utes at a faculty meeting concem- ing a large group of students who were appealing in daily and eve- ning performance at a local theatre at a great loss to their studies. It turned out that an orchestra of six was appearing twice a day and play- ing for 20 minutes each time. But at;suming that there is a prob- lem, should a system of control be instituted? I don't think so. I am becoming more and more in favor of less and Jess control. If the stu- dent wants to play bean ball or te- cite The Shooting of Dan McGrew in his moments of relaxation, Jet him. Let's furnish him with the best quality of bean bags but not tell him that he can only play Mon- days and Thursday afternoon. Why not solve the problem an- other way? Why n·ot taise the standards of the courses, heighten the morale of the college and then the student will make his own de- cision and quickly. He will have to make decisions some time, why not now? And everyone will be l:Lappy. Professor Coffin Professor Harrison C. Coffin, lan- guage and literature: I am one of those old-fashioned and probably naive people who consider a coll~ge a place for study; therefore, I view with misgivings the tendency of some students to spend most of their time on outside activities. It is true that a man can often profit from having a variety of interests·, but it is also true that scattering the energies is· disastrous. Many of the student activities are attrac- tively presented, they are surround- ed by a kind of glamour, they are often generously endowed, and they a-re supported by a dete1mined and organized ballyhoo. That means that the activity man, though he may nGt feel that he is dying for dear old Rutgers, nevertheless be- lieves that he is doing something specific for Alma Mater, and as a result the activities enjoy an ad- vantage over what might be called the passivities of the classroom. overfull days of the industria·! ty- coon. College offers the student the unique opportunity of living an un- hurried, thoughtful life, and parti- cipation. in student activities is tantamount to refusal to recognize this great value of attendance at a university. Instead of attempting to spread out participation in extra-cmricular activities, Tile Concordiensis should feel :proud that the student body of Union College is o.;o· little inter- ested in such affairs. H. La.w·ence A.chilles H. Laurence Achilles, Jr., two ac- tivities: The comparative freedom permitted the individual both within and without the curriculum strikes me as one of the most appealing things about Union when compared with other colleges. What regula- thus do exist are informal, elastic and are easily changed. Any sort of rigid paternalistic management of a student's participation in extra- curricular activities would, I think, be running counter to one of the college's most valuable traditions. As a matter of fact, I personally regard participation in more than n few activities as In general being a great waste of time, but I should prefeT to have students find this out for themselves;. they can be given advice without being made the subjects of dictation. ,John W. Britten John W. Britten, '38, no activities: I do not believe that a curb on the number of outside activities a stu- dent may participate in would be of any value. The student should have wisdom enough to decide whether he is devoting too much time to such activities at the ex- pense of his subjects. If he is in- terested in acquiring good grades or a knowledge of a particular sub- ject, he will work toward that end. A curb on activities will not arouse th.al desire and the student will probably spend his spare time less profitably than before. It is purely a personal matter . . . any super- vision would remove a responsibility from the student which he alone should have. Victor Cohen, ':l8, no activities: party at her home. Mrs. Douglas Campbell, chair- Ey CARL TRAHMAN man of the benefit, will be in charge The second issue of the Idol, offi- of the party at the home of Mrs. cia! Union College magazine, ap- Danton, Mrs. Overton Luhr at Mrs. peared on the campus yesterday . Wold's, Mrs. Frederic Schmitt at. Larger and more varied in content, Mrs. Ga·ris's, Mrs. Harold A. Larra- it rep1•esents a considerable itn- bee at Mrs. RuBsell A. Halls, Mrs. provement over the Thanksgiving Robert W. Crowell a;t Mrs. Mavot's, number. The editors' have mme Mrs. Mortimer F. Sayre at Mrs. successfully achieved their pro- Kellogg's, Mrs. Frederick Bronner fessed aim for a magazine of \gen- at Mrs. Fox's. eral appeal and interest\ and have Tickets for the benefit, which will encouragingly done it without using be open to the public, may be ob- \canned\ syndicated material . tained flom .the wives of any fac- Srnart in appearance and irnprov- ulty member. It is expected that ed in rnake-up, the current issue of 75 or more tables will be filled. the Idol contains two short stories, Students Attempt F .. D. R. Interview Light and Bungdus See Presi- dent's Secretary at Hyde Park two historical pieces, five assorted articles of prose and poetry. and two bo-oko< reviews. The w:hole is en- livened by a scattering of pictures, including a new feature, \Life at Union College,\ and several car- t<>ons. Most of the improvement, th.ough, is in appearance. The general level of the writing has not been t:'aised and much of the contents is stock stuff by familiar contributOI'S. Lon H. Barringer leads off with .. Anniversary,\ another in his series LEWIS B. SEBRING, SR. Romeyn Memorial Placed in Chapel Descendents Present Marble Tablet To Be Unveiled When an obstinate Union College of psychological ch.aracter studies student met an adamant White which is rather better than his House secretary, the outcome might earlier \Episode in the Park.\ His have been a toss-up, but ih this case character this time is an old w<>man the latter claimed a victory. For who in a small way holds fast to yesterday afternoon, while motor- her husband's philosophy. Mr. Bar- ing through Hyde Park, N. David ·ringer affects streamline styling Light, Jr., '41, and Julius J. Bund- and loves adjectives. Founder's Day gus, '38, suddenly possessed the \Union's Gardens,\ by Mrs, Fox, ---- stubborn desire to see President is an inter·seting account of the The marble table commemorating Franklin D. Roosevelt, who for the historical background and the de- the Rev. Dr. Dirrok Romeyn was set week-end \was resting\ at his velopment of, as the title indi-cates, in the Union College Chapel floor Dutchess County residence. the college gardens. Mrs. Fox writes yesterday and will be unveiled at Light and Bundgus first casually ·directly, simply, and authoritatively, the Founders' Day Convocation dro:ve up to the gate, where they and with considerable charm. In di- Friday morning, February 25. were stopped by the alert State rect contrast with her article is The tablet is of silve.r gn,y Ten- Trooper who is guard there. For William Endicott's contribution, nessee marble, framed in a two twenty minutes the hooper firmly \Union Sweepstakes,\ the stcny of inch imported black Belgian marble, argued that the President \wasn't Dr. Nott's manipulations of C<>llege the whole harmonizing with the dec- seeing anyone.\ For the same pe- finances. Though his su.bject is of orative scheme of the Memorial riod, Light and Bundgus upheld the itself interseting, Mr. Endicott Chapel, and yet clearly visible to affirmative, frequently citing the misses fire throl!gh his heavy writ- those who walk up the center names and opinions of intimate ing and awkward use of statistics. aisle. friends of F. D. R. to explain their John Lewis, a freshman whose first point, Finally the trooper, in des- contribution to the Idol, the story This tablet is the gift to the col- . M M I t \Doings Up on Bear Pond Tht's lege from two direct descendants of pa1r, sent them to r. \ c n yre, F. D. R.'s personal secretary at the Spring,\ appears in this issue,. is a the leader in the founding of Union Nelson House in Poughkeepsie to :promising newcomer. He has an College 143 year.s ago. Lewis Beck obtain permission. easy narrative style and though not Sebring, Sr., a civil engineer in wholely satisfactory, his story is Schenectady anil a graduate in the Talk With Canning 1 f 1892 d h' L · B refreshing aftet· :Mr. Barringer's c ass o , an IS son, eWis ., Light and Bundgus hustled back sty! istic tricks. Jr., '23, an editor of the New York to the Nelson House and inquired Hen.ry M. Seider's contribution, ·Herald Tribune, are the donors. for Mr. Mcintyre . .At first they were \The Royal Bed Bouncer,\ is clever Mr. Sebripg, Sr.,· is a consulting thwarted, but after sevetal persist- and amusing. Hyman Sugarman's civil engineer in Schenectady. He ent attempts, they were told that \Deceived\ is another of those has been city engineer of Schenec- \Mr. Canning, of the vVhite House poems which hang upon a surprise tady five times, the first four dur- staff, will be down shortly.\ twist an.d which deceive us n.ot for ing times of intensive municipal Mr. Canning soon appeared with a moment. In \The Hicc~ugh's expansion, and the last during the official White House stationery in Great If\ Hyman Enzer ta.kes a pel'iod of the World War, in the his band. They wanted to sec the poke at pomposity and shmv-s how administration of Mayor Charles A. President, the:; said, in order to re- nearly ridiculous dignity is. \A Date Simon. He was graduate from Union ceive a statement and sanction by with a Duke,\ a sport article by College with the degree of Civil him of a project to form young po- Ben Rathbun is not so good .as Mr. Engineer in 1892, and five years Utica! clubs at various colleges. Mr. Rathbun's contribution to Novem- later marrl·ed Agnes Emma Bulla. Canning was adamant, pointed out ber's ldol. T.heir home is a.t 320 Summit .Ave- that the President \wasn't seeing. Louis c. Maples will evidently nue. anyone,\ that Jim Farley was the t d man to see. For over an hour he commen upon every aspect of mo - Mr. Sebring is a member and !01- et n life before he is graduate. In mer president of the Society of En- discussed the plan with Bundgus th' · h has · 1 IS u,sue e an art1c e called gineers of Easte1·n New York, of and Light, after which they left \R di R · \ h' h · · a o evenes, w 1c In familiar the Schenectady County Council, compromised but still dissatisfied. f h' tal b as 1on tes roadcasting for a Boys Scouts of Amelica in which he 0 ride. 'The trite \oily voiced announ- has taken an active part since its No Chapel, No Diploma cer\ and \Hitem's Headache Cure\ organization twenty years ago, of Declares Dean Garis are old friends to every rea.der of 1 the Holland Society of New York, freshman themes. and of the Masons. In response to several queries re- garding student failure of chapel requisites, Dean Charles F. F. Garis recently stated that all stu- dents must have passed those re- quirements before graduating from Union College. Blissful Boys, Buxom Belles, Band, Beautify Blithe Beaux Arts Ball By LARRY PELLETTffiR. ~------------------------- By CHARLES F. '\\'IBERLEY This afternoon, '!'he Idle Interval, the long-heralded rival of The Idol, appear:o on the campus. Produced by members of Professor Burges Johnson's advanced composition class and printed surreptitiously at the Gazette Press during the same week that The Idol was being put out at the Electric City Press, it contains some good examples of the type of writing that Union students can do well. Without any attempt to be pro- found the articles are written in a light mood, nor have the editors tried to put out a magazine mod- eled after Harpers, but have issued a publication that should appeal to the students. \The Critics' Corner\ particulat•ly caught this writer's fancy, for it brought to light a masterful writer in James C. Wade, a junior, who has a gift for the light touch. Col- laborating with the laborious Her- bert 0. Fox lwho happens to catch a little of the frivolous spirit) he bas written a snappy \sports talk\ review of an NBC symphonic con- cert. Fox manages a basketball game with some of the high-flown platitudes of the music critic. Very fitting. \Village Store·· by Melvin Laven- der is pleasant reading as is \Alone\ by Robert Albin Saaf. .An- other \find\ is Arthur B. Lawrence, jr., '38, who writes a good crime story in \.A Case of Bad Memory\ but who sours in the stereotyped barber-chair story redressed in the title \Denouement.\ Except for the notable Henry Malcolm Seider's poem about \that small man from Wyoming\ the poetry is insignificant. The estim- able Mr. Wade makes a fine crit- ique of Henry Disbrow Hartmann's poetry which, we think, sums up our feelings in a doughnut. This type of magazine bas much to recommend itself to the students that the Idol lacks. The stories are the type that an immature writer can do fairly well. They are short, light and in no way artificial. The magazine should be enjoyed by the students who have been distressed by the Idols of the past two years. Congratulations and lots of compe- tition are due. ----,0---- Thil'd Recorded Concert To Be Given Wednesday The third of a series of recorded concerts, to be given Wednesday night, February 23, will include \Eine Kleine Nachtmusik\ of Wolf- gang Mozart and the Cesar Franck \Symphony in D Minor.\ The time for the evening musicale bas been changed to 9:45 so that students may come directly to Silli- man Hall when the library closes, John Brand announced for the Christian Association, which is sponsoring the series. a--- Local Chapter of D. A. R. To Aid Worthy Student In a communication with Dean Garis, Mrs. Schuyler Pearse of the Schenectady Chapter, Daughters of the American Revolution has asked for application for financial assistance to be given by the D. A. R. to some worthy coll~ge student. Men who exceed their semester chapel requirements are penalized: 25 bolts during th subsequent term. Anyone failing to fulfill two semes- ters of chapel attendance must compensate the deficiency by re- ceiving only 50 bolts during the subsequent year. With the sumptuous Casino as Ironically, Eddie DeLange did not the locale and with the Hud.son- play \.Josephine\ following .the DeLange orchestra providing de choice by Napoleon. lovely musical background. Skid- If Eddie Delange's performance more's Beaux Arts Ball, held on Saturday can be considered a true Sa.turday, has once more come and portent of what Union will hear at gone. the Interfraternity Ball, danceable These funds are available for the next college year; funds are awarded by the State D. A. R. through the local chapters. lt is thought that one student from Union can be aided by the Sch~­ nectady chapter, Mrs. Pearse said. It is often maintained that some of these activities have an intel- lectual or cultural content, that they contribute to the education of those men who take part in them. If this statement is true, if activities have an educational value, then the facts might be faced; the material might be removed from the scope of stu- dent competition and put into the curriculum. Thus the work would be surrounded by the same safe- guards and restrictions as the reg- ular c12:urses, and the competition between class work and activities would cease to exist. Something of this kind is being tried at some col- leges, notably at Bennington. & for rules governing activities, it might be said that the more rules y<>u have, the harder it is to en- force any of them. I do not favor an elaborate structure of regula- To restrict such such participation would work to the disadvantage of students who are interested in ac- tivities. Every opportunity should be given such sludents to develop their interest. . . . It may be true that a few students monopolize ac- .\iviOes. Would restricting partici- pation encourage other students to participate? I think not. 1f students cut clm;ses to fulfill ~he requirements of activities one cannot fairly call it the faUlt of the activities. No activity compels a student to give all his time. , • • The advantages derived from parti- cipating in activities may more than compensate for the faiiure to ob- tain high grade~!, but If students are restricted from college activities they can very easily find activities off the campus. ls it not better to give them the opportunity to dis- play their talents on the campus (Continued on Page 2) Bible classes and Music Appre- ciation courses which are a part of the curriculum are not made com- pulsory as penalties for excessive chapel bolting. o--- Ligon Gets Assistants Dr. Ernest Ligon announced to- day that the Psychology Depart- ment has received a gift of money to .retain two summer workers. These workers will be kept to ana- lyze the statistical results accumu- lated over three years of test work. .An informal tea dance was held rhythm will prevail on March 18 at the Casino in the afternoon for in the muscle mansion. Especially those early auivals who wish to effective was the orchestra's rend.i- warm up and get in the swing of tion of \Definiti-<Jn of Swing/' during things for the evening ~ession. which the drummer played an un- .After dinner, however, ca.me the usu~ solo on the triangle. Several piece de resistance, the Ball itself. of Will Hudson and Eddie DeLange The Casino was decorated in the ditties were played, including an un- Napoleonic motif, and most of the· released number. Skidmore sylphs wore dresses of To malte th.e dance a success the Empire period. Later in the from a Union point of view, several evening a grand march to~k place Union men, including Skidmore's ·during which Napoleon chose a adopted son, Fred Wyatt, were in- JoseJ)hine, and during which: a prize eluded in the very representative was given to the best-costumed girl. list of guests. Students interested should apply to Mrs. Pearse, R. F. D. 1, Water- vliet, N, Y. ----,0---- Hurd Publishes Article The eighth in the series of \Studies on Silicic Acid Gels\ by Professor Charles B. Hurd Is pub- Hshed by the .January issue of The Journal of Physical Chemistry. This study deals with the research which Dr. Hurd, together with Kenneth J. Frederick, '36, and Charels R. Haynes, conducted on \The time of set of gels containing strong acids,\ (Continued on Page 2)

Page Two @nnro birttsis FOUNDED 1877 \A Causa Persa Parole Assai\ 1937 Member 1938 J:usocialed CoUe5iate Press Dlstnbu tor of Coffeeiate Di5est THE CONCORDIENSJS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1938 will accept everything we state as the honest truth. We languish ior understanding. We would appreciate some criticisro. of what is supposed to 'be editorial opinion. And aH we get is damnation of the gossip column. Who will damn us? Who will b-elieve us? !RENASCENCE IDOL DRIVEL ~I IN THE MAIL Ji;CH()ES FROM THli) (JLASSROOM To the Edit01·: C01ne-eming 'Work we shall start off our epic this lie with your boy friends. And more· weak by mopping our slate clean, over, he is still adament in his re- so here is the a:aswer to the young porting, for he maintains that the Translated fwm the German of lady who maintained that we had articles were sent, and he has •as- Albrecht .Block. . made a misstatement of fact in sured me that he can show ample \Oile day a stalwart looking our last .column. For the sa.l!.e of proof. If he should retract, iny· tramp appr()ached the Het·r von convenience, we shall call Miss---, whole-bearted apologies would ·be · Feldhauseo and begged for alms. Miss Dash. given quite spontaneously. 'What.?' asked the former, '.Aren't • Jal:>ie. you ashalrled to beg? 'I a:m un- We would congratulate the editors of The Dear Miss DaSh, * * * able to find work,' replied th.e beg- R£PRESENTE;;b FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BV Nationat·AdvertisingService, Inc. - In your letter to the editor of. And now f()r another letter. This ger. 'I'll give you work,\ replied Idol for having redeemed themselves--in the issue of Tuesday, Februaty 15, one w&s recently sent to a young J!'eldhausei:J, 'lf you will move this l h f . t · f you said that you, as one of the lady by- members of The Concor- plle -of wo.od from the left side of Co'I/ege Publislurrs RePreseutativo 420 MADISON Avrt.. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO p BOSTON • L09 ANGEtES • SAN fRAllCISCO part. By comparison wit 1 t · € · Irs lSSUe 0 St. Rose College dates had never diensis staff. It is self-explanatory, my farm to right side yo11 shall this yem· the Union Colleg-e quarterly is sent a \crudely ripped\ article to but as yet has received no response. receive two marks. lt is not bon- The official newspaper of the student\ of Unlou College l'uulished Tue•day and Fridays throllg-h- out th~ college year, except during ChristmnH and Spriug 1 t:t:t.~::;~e:-;. your Union date, which had set Erma dear, arable to take money without without par, but there are other standards forth the essentials of etiquette, You 'have been selected the M:OJ;T earning it. and furthermore, beg- which are a little more dependable. We see, and the art of conversation. You BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE EX- ging should not be encouraged/ Publication Vffice, The Gazette Pro;ss, 334 State Bt. ·asked for an apology. CH.ANGES by a unanimous vote of \After several hours the work h0wever, a revival of interest and initiative, f h , d 1 The Conco:rdiensis staff. For your was f 1 n 1 she d and Feldhausen I received the story 0 t e cru e Y informatioa, The Concordiei:!Sis is Sehenectad~. :-;, Y., 'felephone 4-4141 which, above all things, presages good things; ripped alticle\ from a conespond- the Union College newspaper. For added, as he paid the man,, 'If you t ent, who, coincidentally l;lappens to. your .furtb.er information, Union don't find any other worlt tomor- l~nte\retl at the Schenectady Post Off-ice nti Secoml Class Mail ~latter C:ubscription price l.<'ive cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United States. 'Editorial 1\ooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Ca111pus. Telephone, Schenectad~ 4_-0_1_33_. __ Senior Board Hyman A. Enzer ............... Editor-In-Chief ll S. S. South College-6-9728 Robert H. Ferguson .......... Managing Editor l'sl Upsilon House-4-8710 Julius J. Bundgus ................ News Editor 9 S. S. South Col\ege-6-9728 Hem·y D. Hartmann .......... Feature Editor 7 U. G. lJ.-6·U6~0 Carl R. Trahman ...... , ......... Sports Editor Kuppa :::)rgma lluub~-4-h32G John H. Gilmour ............ Business Manager llelto. Up•ilou House-!-7922 Mal'Vin M. Miller .. Associate Business Manager Kappa .:\u-4-7331 Alfred R. Seigle ........... Circulation Manager ----------~~~''~'p~p~a~.:-:~·u~--4~-~73~3_1 _______ _ Junior Board Ai:l::\UCIA'rE J:::Dl1'U!Ul lt\rederil.!'k \V. Heo.uewbourg H. Wymau Hilchcock Hubert ,\. Sauf )l.t \. },t II Jerome Smilh Edward c. Retartyk Hobert c. \Valler, Jr. Alnu C \\'rnua Sophomore Board Clu i~tnplu.~t Canunach::, C. nu~8cll De!-·o, Hobert Eisnt>r, Chr i~toplier lt\'ahy \\\alter F;_tllon, Ed\vanl .\. Jo'!lz, J1·., Stanely Uertz, Alb<Jrl H. Halavlll, ti .... org-e L. Ped~. Li.lwrent.:t; V. Pelletier·, Jr. Freshman Board 1).ml \V. Ht.·l·ltt>r, John BlnHinger, David I•,:Jirfiel.tl, Punahi' Haigh, William Humphri.,s, Jullll LL•Wl~, Kt'll nl:!th :\fat\ l{erll\:ie •• J uhll l'hihlJS. 1\.-Iurtimer H.ul.HIH::i, ltubert ::::khulberg 1 Lask:tr SL'h\vnrtz, Jam~::; E. Twining, JaJne:; L'llrHall. Issue Editor Robert A. Saaf Assistants F. llequembourg L. Pelletier R. Deyo G. Peck Tuesday, February 22, 1938 GOSPEL GOSSIP W c wonder how editorial opinion can l.Je effective when we find that free-lance col- umns, printed under our auspices, are re- garded as the voice of the people. We have envied the popularity of gossip columns while here in our own 10 pt. 18 ems we stewed in righteous lonliness. They receive all the attention and we all the blame. We do not refuse to accept the responsibility for what is printed in The Concordiensis, but we do not wish to be nlisunderstood. • The etlitorial and news columns of this paper are supposedly representative of the entit·e colleg\e-therefore supposed to be laborious and dull. But the feature columns, usually printed on the second page, are pri- vately operated for the edification of the masses. True it is a public grant of space that we give them, but what is said therein Is personal and not at all the viewpoint of any group of students. Therefore it pains us to heal' from alumni that the student body is not appreciative of their efforts on its behalf, mainly because our feature columnists are accepted as preacher of the gospel. We exercise a cer- tain amount of censorship and frequently our judgment is weak and ill-advised, but ou1· intentions above all else are honorable. We are seeking a closer bond between the undergraduate and graduate bodies, but not at the expense of throttling what may be an interesting if rather rude voice. We offer ;private entertainment for those who seek it. What may be said is therefore entirely per- sonal and perhaps overweighted with preju- dice. It's good taste may be questionable and for that we accept part of the respon- sibility, Perhaps we should trade places with the third column of this page every issue and thereby assum ourselves of an audience that 0 come. be one of the Union men who at- College is in· Schenectady, N. Y. row you r:nay come back.' The Idle interval, Ol' the Idol .Supplement, tended the dance, and acted as an, If you are literate, we would ap- \The man retur-ned the following . b . t d escort to a girl in your group. I preciate a reply. In fact, after a day and Feldhausen had him move has made an 1110 trus1ve en ranee an a d h t - · d faith. th d · ·th - ht b k t receive t e s ory 111 go<J . second look. at your picture, to heck e woo tram e l'lg ac o rather unexpected one at that. Its material Naturaliy, a accurate columnist with literacy. the left side fo1· the same wage. would check it. Now, in this case,. Very truly yours, Over a period ·Of several days the is wholes0me and even prophetic. We com- wouldn\t the Union student, who P. s.: What are you doing Saturday wood was brought from the left mend Dr. Burg·es J-ohnson for his class's' gave me the story, was at the dance,' night? to the right and from the right and was a. member of the fraternity ., ,. * to the leEt until finally the work- stimulating publication and praise the print- which received the clippings, be suf- The Outing Club was at North er stayed. a.way although he had er's ink which revealed 0 ne James C. Wade. ficient proof? Creek. A Union student and a. Vas- been recoeiving his regular pay- In any case, if my a.l:'ticle re- sar girl were trudging up a. new . ment. Thoe man had found it im- flected on attitude of St. Rose Col- trail, 'far removed from the facili- possible to exert himself Vllthout lege girls, I extremely regret it ties of civilization. The Union stu- a useful purpose. T. GURDON PARSONS \Ve 1·ecord in memoriam the sympathies of the students of Union College for th.e par- ent::; of Gurdon Parsons. Beloved and re- spected by those who knew him, his death last week, at an age when youth keeps look- ing forward to accomplishment of purposes and idea.ls, l>rought sorrow to all who know of the hdesire to live. JUST IN JEST As most of you know, last Friday's issue of this pap€r carried a new column \Notary Public.\ Its author· is Mr. David Light. We mention this because it is intimately connected with some- thing which we have wanted to column about for a long time. It seems t:hat Mr. Light's article (not unlike some of you!\ Uncle Willy's efforts) created a bit of furor in some quarters. As one fellow put it, \He (Ligh:.t) stepped on too many toes.\ That sums up the criticism. Mind you, it was an excellent column from the point of view of st~·le. Light definitely has a touch. He was truthful in everything he said. But he dared to say what he felt. He stepped on too many to·es! Their itsy-bitsy toes were hurt! And this brings us to our point; will Mr. Light continue to tell the truth? Will he continue to \step on toes\? Only time will tell. He may grow soft and prefer to be classed as a \good fellow\. Or he rnay continue to disseminate genuine news and truthful criticism. If the latter is the case he will re}llace us, for we are about finished. Following publication of his piece each weelt lads will gather in their respective fraternity houses and dorms and criticise. Comment will flow freeLy, \Light that so and so\. \Sure I did it, but the paper goes home\. \Wait till I see that .•.. \ And the faculty. Between classes they will meet in Bailey Hall, engineering building, Chem- istry laboratory, etc., and expound on the awful- ness of it a.ll. \I don't lmow what this place is coming to':· \Lib thats what it is\. \But did you see this . . . Yes, even the faculty wives will read and then whisper over their tea-cups. And Silliman Hall will echo with the pitter· - patter of Milton Enzer's footsteps as he scurries about trying to convince the Senior members of the Cc.nc.:~rdy that Mr. Light is an undesirable person doing untold harm to the college. If Mr. Light bas criticised the Moh.awk Drama Festival, Milton will call a hurried conference with Mr. Calvin and Mr. Carroll in attendance. Then a letter will be. written to the editor branding as \untruthful\ the 1umor that Gypsy Rose Lee was going to play opposite Charlie Coburn in the Mohawk Drama Festival. They'll all read it; they'll eat it up> in fact. Especially when something is said about the \other fell~>w\ And when its about somebody they don't like-they'll smack their lips and say good, good.\ To themselves, that is. That is the bistm·y of Just in Jest. And that is what the future holds for Mr. Light, if be sticks by his guns. By \sticking by his guns\ we mean dedicating his column to a truthful presen- tation of t!Lose things he believes. And immediately he will be branded as one who is trying to \tear-down\ Union. We know, because that is what we have been accused of attempting to do. We have always written what we felt-and in a. land of \yes-men\ where criticism is almost non-existent-that is bound to prove troublesome. Mark you this: if Union, great institution that it is, is t<J really come into its own it will do so, not through superficial agreement, but through honest crlti<:ism. The attitude is: \That's all right, everything is all right-as long as I'm taken care of.'' And it is this attitude that has retarded progress at Union. 11; is those of our fa.mily. (and our off·- spi'ing-tl1e Mohawk Drama Festival) who, be- cause <If selfish reasons froVIIl upon all forms of criticism who are \tearing-down\, It is not the columnists. Tbe:y would make :you believe that we are out of step. In truth it is they-who by putting petty personal ambitions above tbat which they know is for the welfare of Union~who are out of step. Well, Mr. Light, we didn't mean to elaborate to f>O great an extent. Anyhow; may it serve as a say, pep-talk. A stimulant. An idea for an ideal. What say? Uncle Willy. Miss Dash. However, how can I dent eased the pressure of his collat·, \In the village this story was apologize for a diffident, prevaricat- his face w.as hot, red, and strained, thoroughl:y discussed and everyone ing correspondent, who hrusn't as he started to speak several times, was of tbe opinion that worlt was much faith in his own social pres- but the mumble merged into a. hum. something rnore than merely mov- ence and ability as to report a story Finally he turned suddenly, blurted ing the a~<mJ3 and legs ... Work is which has a derogatory influence out, and !J.alf ran, \would you par- atways d..It·eeted to\\ard a u.seful upon himself and his friends. No, don me a minute? I have to wash pur.pose; it creates, forms, pro- Miss Dash, I think your arguments my hands.\ .Jabie. duces ... Campus Opinions (Continued from Pa,ge 1l where they will be of benefit to themselves and the college? Winterton U. Day, '3S, four ac· tivities: Should students be allowed to engage in extra-curricular affairs if these interfere seriously with their curl'icular work, and should some students be allowed .to mo- nopolize important positions? The former is clearly answered by an administrative rule which forbids participation in more than one ac- tivity ullless one is on the Dean's List. The second requires more con- sideration. It would be fine if more students were interested in some activity outside of their routine ex- istence. To that end It would be well to encourage more students to interest themselves in the campus , activities. This is one argument in favor of an enlarged student council; that it would give an opportunity for more students to participate. But to encourage the activities of many by throttling the initiative {)f a few seems ridiculous. dent activities to an excessive de- gree, or ,that control of these ac- tivities is too closely concentrated in the bands of a relatively small number of active individ.uaJs, 1 thillk they might well ask them- selves whether this is not the re- sult of th€ir own indifference. \AJso h!e who learns, worlt.s. He acquires informatioll and forms paints of view whereby he bec·omes a cultured and a. good man for whom it is easier to earn his live- lihood arud to be useful to his fel- low-men. 'The teacher works in that he t.eaches, the doctor ill that he beals , .. I have been struck, frankly, by \The so-called. 'Golden .Age,' in the lethargic attitude of the ma- which ooan lived effortless and jority of our students in regard to sumptuously at the same tinle, is a student aCJtivities. The diff-iculties myt.h. To be sure, the trees grow In which the Idol seems to find it- by themselves but their fi\uits are self pere!Ulially, the fact that from small an.~ tasteless. If they are to a group o-f 25 members the college be gooti. ft•uils they must be orchestra \has dwindled to a m~e grafted, ]ll'Uned and cared for. AU eight faithful\ tas I note in a re- this requ:ires work .•. \ ce.nt issue of the Concor<ll.ensis), Work is a necessity. the fact that in spite of plentiful snow, no fraternity has yet found T.his essay aroused a spirited time or energy to create a piece of classroor:n discussion, and deser- snow sculpture to enter for the vedly toO>, for we came to a number prize offered by Dr. Johnson- of conclusicms. We felt that it de- these arc symptomatic of the situ- filled our own broad purpose in be- ation to which I refer, and I take ing lrere at college. We agreed that the liberty of adding that the Con- our college is a center of planned di 1 ld b b t work directed toward a useful pur- COl' ens s wou e a et er paper pose, A -w~>rk which is intended to if more students were interested in competing for .places on the \create form, produce.\ board and every board member, A freshman made the pwfound once elected, was zealous in striv- observation that the succeS.s of our ing- for excellence. aims depends fundamentally upon It may ·be objected that greater how we.lll the teachers teach and participation in activities would how well the students learn. The mfran Jess emphasis on academic student :has a righ.t to feel cheated Faculty statements worlt. I am not convinced of this. if the t-eacher fails to make him It often happens that the more a see the underly-ing purpose of his <Continued from Page 1) person lias to do, the better he work. Also, he will have. a.. dfsturb- tions for governing a college; I am does it, a.nd the less one has to do, . ing sensE of insufficiency if he does illclined tO\ think that something t t 1 ff · t h- 1 must be conceded to the leader- tbe worse quality work one does. no pu rea e ort m o 1s earn- Greater participation in worthwhile lng. He is then, as one alert mem- ship of the college administration. activities would not mean that the ber of ihe class put it, \a wood If that leadership is prudently ex:- d t ld t t sh'fter\ erted, students may be encouraged average :stu en wou have o cu ' . ·to choose the permanent values in down on time devoted to studying; Obviously, those who had by the college, and will not mistake the it would entail a shift of emphasis sweat oE tbeir brows, recreated the shadow for the substance. away from excessive movie-going, author's t!J.oughts from the original Professor J. Harold Wittner, ath- afternoon naps, and similar leisure lallguage were justified in feeling letic department: It is my observa- activities whose contribution to a tiny glow of satisfaction which tion that there is no problem of what Union College is attempting wonld h;a.ve been lacking bad they excessive indulgence in ~tra-cllr- to do is of questionable value. merely ibeen lectured 'at' on the ricular activities on the part of stu- · identical subject. dents. 'I'he present rules govern-1;-::l==============:ll We thought that Block's essay ing participation are stringent but M O T I O N contained some good !iiea.s and fair, and I can see no way in which. hopde. th~t th.e 11 rea~ers. of the Co.n- student control would be beneficial. .. cor 1ens1s WI enJOY 1t as we d1d, Natm·ally, the studies of the aver- C. H. Stu.bing age participant suffer to a degree, but if the activities which bring this about are approved by the ad- ministrative authorities, I think it is justifiable. If it is not, the activ- ity should be abandoned. Dean Charles F. F. Garis: It bas been my opinion for a long time that over a period of years too many of the important offices in the extra-curricular activities are concentrated in too small a gro11p of students. This concentration does harm both to the individuals and to the activities concerned. Reai values are gained from real work in an activity worthy of time and effort and not from passive membership in as many activities as one is permitted to join. I am afraid that too. mnch em- phasis is being placed on the value of activities in connection with se- curing positions after graduation and that this emphasis is being interpreted ,by the studants in a join-all-you-can attitude. Students must realize that the most impor- tant achievement in college is the gaining of a reputation. of being a scholarly gentleman. I would sug- gest that the Student Council con- sider the possibility of setting up a list of important extra-curricular activity offices no two of which may be held by any cme student, Professor Gordon R. Silbe:t:, lan- guage and literature: I suspect that it is a natural phenomenon in any group, in the outside world as well as in college, for c<;lrtaln In- dividuals to assume or be given multiple responsibilities. If Union students themselves feel that some students are particiJpating in stu- Gold, they do say, Is Wbere You Find It. And, at the moment, :you're very apt to find it at Proc- tor's, accompanied by red., ora.nge, yellow, green, blue and violet. This is our s11btle way of informing you tha.t Wj!liam Randolph Hearst, perverting purveyor of jaundiced joumallsm, has rounded up his Cosmop~lltan Productions crew and burst, as one reborn, from the red ink of Marion Davies' films into Technicolor, with a raring, swearing, her.ring-tearing drama based on a little-known histOJ'ical incident-the struggle between the hydraulic-mining and wb .. ea.t-farm- ing factions in the California of 1877. The historical part of it may ·be handled very well, for all we Imow, but the human angle is <>btu.se,- meaning: stupid. Boy, representing the min€rs, meets Girl, represent- iiig the wheat-farmers; G-irl's fat:her says she'll have no truck with an;y money-grubbing mining engineers; Boy sees light and gets Girl. The picture is often higl:tly amus- ing without intending to be. For ex:ample, the -prologue is l'ecited in imposingly dramatic tones by someone who :positively dJ.•ools fer- vor. And the epilogue, If on!l' can call it that, features a pron:hetlc llis arrr-..s around Olivia DeHavJl- la.nd, ca.n think of nothi.Jlg better .'3peech by George Brent who, with to do than gaze off i11 to the dis- Wold at Physics Mel\ting Dr. Pete!' I. Wold, hea.d of the Physics Department at Union col- lege, will attend a meeting of the American Physical and Optical Society at New York this -weekend. Dr. Wold who is chairman of the commit-tee for tr-aining physicists for indastry will preside a.t a meet- ing of that cDmmittee. tance. But we got our:- . longesi; laugh from the introduC'tio-n into the story, for IJO other reason thaxJ. to exalt Willie's forbears.~ <>f Sen- ator Ge·orge Hearst. Moroni Olsen, as stalwart and upright-looking as any of Hollywood's· ciUzenr:y, was obviously the only man worthy of the role. lie got it. Despite the earnest attempt to show off its color cameras' by photogra.p:hing everything from wheat fields t() rows of liquor bot- tles, Cosmopolitan's, ve:rsion of Tech.nic:olor is o:ften bltured an-d sloppy. Ill fact, to get right down to brass eheclts, the only -thing we liked 1Lbo11t Mr. Hearst's boldfn.g the Mirro:r up to HistD\ry was part of the east. The part that Included Olivia De Havilland, George Hayes and Ti:m .Holt. Especially Olivia. Oh, oh, ()livla! I'eJU'od and 1lis Twin. Brother had th-e ltids swmging from. the ·ra:fters, sllt•ieltlng, cheering-, yelp- ing, screaming-. It was Illildly in· teres.tin.g, thanks to the efforts of one Phillip Hurlic, a little negro lad, J. M. Na 'I cor: .urc oril I. vic Un onE ar up Th• firs (;h· 440 the 1 mil wh firE ArJ thE brE 50 tin otb Th se'i sta '] In mil jus Mi: sec str led rna he tw• for De in wa 1 pe1 lik pa: wb 3 M. Se: 3:2 2 Ch Un M. fi 'Te: sec thi 1 Un 68. 52. j Br sec 'Iil J Br M. thi Ar ia1 ge 2·• Cl: ha P: Cc PE 4'1 F 'I fh ni 2\4 SE vi 01 tt al cl S< fE Vi lc B p Sl

of looking von alms. '.Aren't a:rn un- tl:te beg- replied this side of shall n<>t han- without beg- work 'If you tomor- following b.im move l>ack to wage. days the the left the right work- b. he had pay- nd it im- f Vlithout was everyone worlt was mov- . Work is a u.seful rms, pro- He nd forms becomes man for his live- to his fel- works in in that .Age,' in and thne, is a grow frllits are are to lD.USt be ed for. All .a spirited deset·- a number that it de- pose in be- that of planned usefLLI pur- to profound cess of our upon teach and learn. The eel cheated make him pose of his a. disturb- if he does b.is learn- alert mem- t, \'a wood had by the the original io feeling which g bad they on the essay ideas and the Con- as we did, Stu.bing of the Union col- of the nd Optical weekend. of the physicists a meet- . longest into reason tha.n of Sen- oroni Olsen, as was woi'thy of attempt to by bing from liquor bot- varsicn of blurred an-d down to y -thing we st's noldfng was part Included Hayes Olivia. Brother g from. the 1 yelp- miLdly in· efforts of little negro J, :M. THE OT>NCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22,1938 Page Three Mermen Close Season by Breaking Long Losing Streak Garnet Tank Team Scores Over M .. 1 .. T .. : Thirteen, College Records Broken Five DoW11s R. P .. I. At.letic Awards Committee Honors By Swimmers During Past Season Natators Seore First T1ium.ph In 26 Consecutive !Vleeis By 50-25 Count ~---------------------------- The Garnet mermen broke a 25 consecutive meet losing streak Sat- .urday aftarnoon in the Foe>te Mem- orial Pool 'bY defeating a weak M I. T. swimming team 50-25. This victory closed the season .foz the Union ta.nkmen. Saturday's meet was a notable one, considering the fact that not a record wa,g broken as Union rung up its first win in three years The Union natators garnered· seven first placas to the Enginaers two. Chuck Passe won both the 220 and 440 yard freestyle events to lead the individual scoring. Harry Myers closed his swim- ming career at Union_ fittingly, when he won the diving for the first time this year. Ca.ptain Arnold Gordon also swimming for the last time in the 200 yard breaststroke, Paul Teare ·in the 50 yard dash, and Burdick B:dt- tin in th.e 10() yard dash, were the The Union C~llege 'Swimming team bro:ke- .ancw set 16 records during the ~938- season. Thirteen of them were college records, while three weie po()L Both the . 100 yal'd .fr-eestyle and the 400 yard sprint relay marks were broken foul' times. The foll()w- ing are the ne-w rec()rds set: January lO......;T~Wty Meet 100 yard :freestyle - Burdick Brittin-: 5S.3-College record. 400 yard rel:ay-)Paul Teare, Peter DeWitt, Brittin, and Charles Passe) -3:56.6.-College record. January 2~R. P. I. Meet 220 yard freestyle- Charles Passe-2: 31-2-eollege record. :tOO yard' :freestyle - Burdick Brittin-:57.~College reco-rd. 200 yard brellStstrltB-c-Arnold Gordon-.2:48.2-College record. February '6--S;yracuse Meet 220 yard :fireestyle - Charles Passe-2: 3~.-College record. 100 yard freestyle - Charles Passe- :56.2-College record. *200 yM:d breaststro·ke- Arne>ld Gordon-2:46.8-College record. 400 yard relay-(Paul Teare, Peter DeWitt, Burdick Brittin, Ch.at\les Passe)-3:54 - Collage record. · Febnuu-y 11-Amherst Meet \'100 :yard freestyle--Cb.arles Pa~s e- :54.9-Collega and pool record. 400 yard relay-(Paul Teare, Peter DeWitt, Burdiclt Brittin, and Char las Passe)-3 :53-Col- lege· and pool -record. February 12-Rochester Meet *220 :yard freestyle-Cb.arles Passe--2:27'-College record. Februar:y 1fl-Colgate Meet \'4(}0 yard relay-(Paul Teare, Peter DeWitt, Burdick Brittin, Chat\ les Passe') ---'3 :51. 6-College and pool record. *?Ie.sent reco~d. other individual winners f<>r Union. N T l S Ed\ The 400 yard relay team won ·Its I I eu · rioune ports .· ttor sevanth race this year in eight INlR.ANURALS No. 1 Football Autlwrity starts to climax the meet. . There wei·a several close races. ~=============;;;.'.~ Bask:etlJall \'21\ The seJn!,final round of each btacket must be completed orr or before Saturday, February 26. Op- ponents must arrange their own matches which r:nay be played any time between 1(): 30 an.d 1:30, in the presence of either Mr. Ketz or Mr. Lawrence. Intmmural :Ba.:sk:etball In the 50 yard dash, Teare swim- ming with a bandaged eye, was just able to defeat Brittin. Bob Miles lmt a heartbreaking fight for second place in the 150 yard ba<lk- stroke in. another close finish. Miles led McEvoy, the M. I. T. second man, until the final 10 yar·ds when he was passen. Union placed o·ne- two in both of the distance swims for the first time this season. Bill Derrick finished sacond to Passe in the 220 and Ken Reinhardt There will l>e :no intramural bas- was second in the 440. ketball games this week because of This meet closed collegiate com- fraternity invitations. petition for the team, but it is Basketball Results likely that some of the men vvill Febxultl'y 16- participate in the A. A. U. meet, Pili Gamma l'lti Sigma which will be held later this month Delta (2o) HoLppn. (~2) . Robert 1 1 3 Boychuclt 1 1 3 Su.mmartes: Sands 1 0 2·Young 0 0 0 300-yard medley relay- Won by Shanley 4 2 10 Blaisdell 5 0 10 M. I. T. (Bill Brewster, William Burwell 0 0 O.Ostrander 3 1 7 Sears, William Schuler). Time MacKenzie 4 0 SHarrison o o o ' Lescohier 1 0 .2 Rieger 1 0 2 3:28.3. --- --- 220-yard free-style - 'Won by 11 3 25 10 2 22 Charles Passe, Union; Bill Derrick, • • • Union, second; Dick Wheeler, !'<'urth Colleg-e• ro;fei~e<l to Chi Psi. M. I. T., thil'd. Time, 2:39.8. ~'ebruary 10- 50-yard free-style-Won by- Paul Alpha Pili I Kappa Alpha 'Teare, Union; Burt Brittin, Union, Delta (22) (13) second; Frank Gardner, M. I. T. Simboli 1 0 !2 Balch 0 0 0 ' DeGesero 3 0 e Tlrornpson 1 0 2 third. Time, 0:25.6. Isabella o 0 {) 1 Brown 0 3 3 Dives-Won by Harry Myel's, Ca'marota 3 o -li Riclurds g 2 6 Union, 72.98; Stuart Paige, M. I. T ., Page 4 0 8 Lawrence I} I} 0 68.53, second; Fred Cooke, M. I. T., Tom-pkins 1 0 2 - Morris 0 0 0 52.76, thlrd. Henyan o o o 100-yard free-style-Won by ~urt _ _ _ _ __ Brittin, Union; Paul Teare, Unl.on, 11 o Z2 4 5 13 second; Bill Schuler, :M. I. T., third. . • • • Time, 0:57.4. Neutrals (44) ISoutlt College (20) 1 50 -uard baclrstroka-- We>n by :Bill Barbieri 3 2 !IEnz<lt' 4 4 12 ~ Coloby 0 0 0 Goldet· 1 0 2 Brewster, M. I. T.; John McEvoy, Johnoon 1 o ~Annese 1 0 2 M. I. T., second; Bob Miles, Union, Smith 6 0 11 Seide1· 0 o 0 third. Time, 1:59. Roickle 1 0 1 Kimmey 0 0 0 200-yard breaststroke- 'Won by ~:~~~te 6 1 o 0 Li Gardner 2 0 4 Arnold Gordon, Union; Sears Will- Swart 3 o 6 iams, M. I. T., second; Dave Mor- --- genthaler, M. I. T., third. Time, 21 2 4-'1 8 4 20 2:48.3. * • ~ 4 '0-ya.rd free-style _ Won b~• Psi Upslloit (23) ) lHita PILi (16) \\ \ H'embourg 6 0 LO Squires 1 0 2 CharleS Passe, Union; Ken Rein- Hawkes 1 1 ~ Bm:ke 1 o 2 hardt, Union, second; Brown Underwood 2 0 4 Binclrle 1 2 4 Parlter, M. I. T., third. 'rime, 5:44 Masterson 3 0 6 Imrie 1 0 2 400-yard relay-Won by Vnion Grant 0 0 0 Fal\lter a 0 6 r.rhomson 0 0· 0 College (Paul Teare, Bill Derrick, Harwood o o o Peter Dewitt, Burt Brittin), Time, --- --- 4o\Ol. 11 \ 23 0 • 7 2 16 Referee-William Applegarth. Sigma Chi forfeited to Kappa Nu. ----0 •• * F h Q • t t 1 S FobruaJ'Y 21- rOS Uln e ose I{aPJ.la Nn (28) ; Ea!']llt Sigma Spellman 2 0 4 Can 2 m> 0 4 1 5 0 10 0 0 0 0 To R. P. I. yearlings Lubansky ·i 0 8 lMor.rison 2 Kessler 5 0 l.O Hanson 5 Muroff 0 0 0 Stillman 0 Halpern 0 1 1 Callaghan 0 11 1 23 9 1 19 The Union freshmen lost tlleir final game of tha season Saturday night to the R. P. I. frosh, 33 to 27. This was the fifth loss ()f the Insurance \iV()-I'li: Interviews season for the cubs whose sole victory was over Manlius. Seniors who are Interested in The Garnet yearlings led. through- securing eroplCJy:rnent with the out the first three pariod.s and at Phoenix M-utual Life Ins11rance the end of the third quarter were Company nay be fnteiviewed by ahead .23 to 22. The Engineers Mr. Howe, a. re:pl'esentative of that clicked in the final period and establishment -<Jn. Thursday, Feb- scored 11 points as the Union de- ruary 24. Appointments may be fense collapsed to win the gal?'e. mada with Mi:os Schrader of the Adarn Clesinski led the scOJ'Jng Union College Placement Bureau. with 9 points and was closely fol- lowed by AI Turchick witll 8. John Kellar led tha R. P. I. attack and paced his team to victory in the second half rally with 8 points. Summary: R. 1'. I. Frosh- G Kellar, lf ......•.. • · · • 4o Kremble, rf ....... , . . 0 Carmen, rf • . . . . .. .. . . . 2 Nugent, rf ............ 0 Gordon, c ............. 1 Coleman, c ......... , .. 1 Sokolski, rg . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Nye, rg .......•....... 0 Nadler, rg .•..•... • ... 0 :Mueller, lg ........... 3 Shingle, lg . .. . .. . .. . . . 0 Zurkly, lg , ........... 1 Total •............ , .13 Union :Frosh- G Vannier, rf •..• , .....• 2 Ford, If ............... 0 Turellick, If ........... 3 Ci esinsltl, c . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Canfield, rg •••.•..•.. l. 1' 8 2 6 0 3 2 2 0 2 6 0 2 33 p lnterestet! .lu Sclunectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. 6RAUBART Tht Jay .llttus Jeweler 166 JA \Y STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty 'P AREER :PEINS .. :B.estaunut.·Ta:.p. Jl.ooin • Dellea.,essen GOLD'S Tlte following bit about Stan- ley Woodward, the late George DaJe:Y's succoosor as sports edi- tor' <Jf tha New York HeJ-ald Trib1me, is taken from Down Br>O!t.dway by Fred Wittner and Mel Adams of the Associated C~llegiate Press: Stanley W o o d war d, new sports editor of the New Y~:rk Hera.ld T:ribiUle, played on the Amh.erst line, and wa.; once flattened by Doc Spea1s when the fat 'Ona graced Dartmouth's bruising: forward wall .•. Stan- ley is the nation's No. 1 foot- ball cornmentator, one of the fevv .spo:rts writers who actually kaow t:he te<lhnicalities of the gall! e. Delta Upsilon Team Wills Bowling Crown The Delta Upsilon fraternity bowlin.g team, winners of the Amer- ican League, defeated the Theta Delta Chi squad, titlaholders in the National Leag11e, yesterday after- noon on the Reuter Academy alleys for the championship of the College Intr-a~nural Bowling League. The D. U.'s experienced little dif- ficulty- ta:king the match by a 287 point .ma:rgin, the final score being 24()() to 2113. The winners took three straight gamas with 793, 7'74 and 833 s~ras to the Theta Delt's 677, 761 and 675. Three D. U.'s rolled over' 500 for a three game score, Kee-Is with 500, Mara with 503 and Gan::unons, who was individu.al high scoret-, with 530. Gammons also be>wled the hlgh single game, scor- ing ~()() In the second frame. Hutch- ins captured individual horrors for the 'I'heta Delta with a 457 three- gatne e-ontributlon and a 178 single gatne score. Su!ll.maries: DJlLTA. UPSILON (3) l'I>tyer .Keers . .. .. . . .. . .. . 165 167 Mara • , .. .. . .. . .. .. 164 14 7 1. 1 66 14 Giltnott.J' .. , ....... . Ha;rnn . .. . . .. . .. . 157 127 Gammons . . . . . . . . . 160 200 Total 168 500 173 503 176 437 146 430 170 530 793 77 4 833 2400 Tlfi~TA DEI,TA CHI (0) PIIWH T(ltaJS Travis .. .. .. .. .. . . 105 135 117 357 Hutchil1s .... .. . .. .. 155 178 124 457 Ma~les ... , . . . . . . . . 145 165 158 468 Case • .. . .. . .. . .. . . 131 123 149 403 Stei:fvaler , .. , .... , 141 161 127 429 677 761 675 2113 iroy Second Shirt Outlet Specfaliz:lng in Fblest 'Troy Seeonds, Odds and Samples 715 State St. Jloro!IS from Arnu1ry A NNW SYMBOL OF a national org·aniza- tion dedicate to the sci- entific control of dail-y p..rod11cts, this seal is y-our assurance of finer ice cream. In. Slow Contest Five Swimmers for Accomplishments Varsity Quintet 'I'akes Fourth Victory of Seaso11 By Close Ma:ergin Pass·e, Brittin, Teare, Gordon amd DeWitt Are Voted BJock \U\ Awards ~--------------------------·- Other swimming awards were as follows: sUt-Harry Myers, '38, of Albany, William Derrick, '39, of Buffalo, Kenneth Reinhardt, '38, of Woodhaven, and Alex.ander Merri- man, '38, of Bristol, Conn.; aUa- Th U · c 11 't · Robert A. Miles, '40; of Schenec- . e · man o ege vat:st y qum-. For e:xceptional accomplishment t t d f t d th R I P 1 tady, David Wilder, '40, of Roches- . e e ea e e e-nsse aer o y-· in break.Jng four long-standing rec- R kl d technic Institute tea.tn, w.hich has , , . ter, Jack Wright, '40, of oc · e ge, failed' to win a game this season , otds and leadm15 the Unwn College . Fla. by the close score of 32-30 Saturday' swimming team through its bright- Freshman numeral· awards for night in the East Lansingburgh. est season. in many years, five var-. fi'eshman hockey-1941-Bradford !unior High Schoool gymnasium sity s-wimmers on the minor sports Grant of Orange, N. J., G. Dudley m Troy Holmes of West Orange, N. J., The ~econd string combination' team ·were awarded major let~er George P. Gregory of New Haven, of Hudson Tanner, Geot:ge Doyle, award•s, Professor J. HarC>ld W1tt- Conn., William J. Hartt of Spring- Charles Wiberley, ·Geotge Miller,: ner, divedor of athletics, announced field, Mass., William Hastings of and Bill Busino started the game .·last rrigbt. Troy, Laughlin McKinnon_ of Atlan~ and played six~een oo!nutes ·of. the The athletic awards conunittea tic City, N, J., John Colson of Den- first half! scormg tbtrteen pomts.' ·n-amed Ca~tain Arnold Gordon., , 38 , ver, Col., and Richard Henyan of The varsity then ent.ered the con- of Schenectady, Charles Passe,. '40, Sc~~:~:f'Y·awards for freshman test but. accounted for only on a: of Pittsfield, Mass., Burdi()lt Brit- basketball-1941-William Ford of sco~e, ~hts a fou.l slbot by Grant tin, '40, of Hoboken, N. .J., Paul Saratoga, Arnold Rathlev of East Smith m the closn~g seconds of the Tea.J:e, ·a~. of Lakewood, 0., and hal.f. The half-time score was Peter DeWitt, , 39 , of South Orange, Islip, L. I., Adam Ciesinski of Sche- Umon ~4, R. P. I. 10. . N. J., as deserving the Block \U\ nectady, John Canfield of Schenec- Most of the sco:r,iru.g m the first ·Jetter for their achievem.en,ts on tady, John Vannier of Hudson h lf · th f 1 t · Falls, Alexander Turchiclt of a was vta e Oil rou e as LS the swimming team watervliet, Howard M:ott of Sche-. custe>mary in Union\B. P. I. games.. ' The battle really sf;arted in the' 2!) Honored nectady, and Donald Ford, '38, second half when the hosts ral- At th~ same time annou.ncemerrt manager, of Albany. lied to tie the score .:at 17 all after of mioor- letter awards to tlle other five minutes had elacpsed. For the deserving members of the swim- next six minutes ·the Engineers ming team and of freshman num-· didn't score, while .the Sons of. eral a.jvarcis to the basketball and Schuylel' tallied nine units to lead hocke;y par-ticipators was made by 26-17'. · Profess<H 'Wittner. A total of 29 With four minutes· left to play athletes an-d managers were honor- in the game, and th-E score stand- ed for participation in the 1937-38 ing at 31-22, the Cherry and White winter spo-1·ts program. Following scored eight points in 2'12: minutes the conclusion of the curr-ent sea- to pull within one point of the son witn the Union-R. P. I. basket- Dutchmen. Union fro:ze the ball for ball game ·<ln March 5, the a.wards the remainder of .the game and, to the V'arsity basketball and hoc- capitalized on a fou.! shot to gain key squads will be made public. its two point advantage. · Althou.gh Union's swimming team The win for Union ·tnakes a total won o.nly o:ne of its eight meets this of nine consecutive .victories over year, 11n.<1er the direction of Coach R. P. I., which ties a previous win-· Joseph VVheatley it has broken rec- ning streak, and if t:!he Garnet can ords in the 100-yard freestyle, 220- bcat the Engineers !here March 5, · yard freestyle, 200-yard breast it will have estabLished a new stroke, and the 40Q-yard freestyle record in straight -wins over its relay, low>ering marks in those rival from Troy. events 13· Umes, R. P. 1.- G F p Passe, high scorer for the season Preston, lf ..... , ... _ .. 0 2 2 ·with 61 :points, was the outstanding Fazioli, lf ..... , ... _. . 2 o 4 · swimmer of the sea:son, breaking Shako, rf .......... _,. o 4 4 ;the college records in the 100 and carlson, c ...... , . , . _, . 2 2 6 220~yu·d freestyle events. He also Henry, c ....... , _ .. _, . 0 0 0 was i11sbu.mental in lowering the Schalz, c ... , ....•.. _. . 1 () 2 400-ya.rd relay mark to a new col- Ludke, lg .. , ... , . , , _. , 2 .2 6 lege a11cdi Fo<>te Pool mark. Teare, Ward, rg ....... , . , , _, . 2 2 6 DeWitt and Brittin were t:he other AMERICAN A·l LAUNDRY The Most Perfect Laundry Work in the Capital District Ph. 4-3166 1030 Barrett St. CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY Inc .. 1858 Hamburg Street PHONE 2·091 0 Ahlfeld, rg ...•..... _, . 0 () o marnb-ers of the relay team. Gar- Total . , ......... , • . . 9 12 30 ~d~on~p~ro~).{~e~t~h;e:;;c;ol;l;eg;e:;;m:;;ar:;;k:;;ln;;th:;;e~~~~~~~~~;;~~;;;;~~ Union- G F p breaststroke. Miller, If ............. 1 2 4 Watson, lf ..... , . , . _. . 1 0 2 Busino, rf .• , . . . . . .. .. . 1 1 3 . Schultz, rf •..•........ 0 3 3 . Wiberly, c ............ 0 2 2 Smith, c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 1 · Tanner, lg •........•.. 2 1 5 THE CAMPUS BARBER SHOP Basement of Silliman Hall A Special Service for Union Students Carr, lg .... , ..... , ... , . 2 1 5 .Antb.<Jn;!' F. Barbieri Doyle, rg- ........... , . 1 1 3 ~~~;;~~~~~~~~~~~;;;;;~~;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;~~ Houni: l:SQ-7:00 P. M. Palmer, rg , .... , ..... 1 0 2 Buchanan, rg . . . . . . . . . 1 0 2 Total ............... 10 12 32 Score at halftime: Union 14, R. P. L 10. Referees: WilliaL.s arrd Eckerson. Fouls cmnmitted: Union 19, R. P. I. 18. Time of periods: 20 minutes. Summary: BELLINGER PAINT CO. Axthur Trigg:, Prop. Paints, Oils, VarnlshflS, QI~~. Brushes and Will Paper 126 BROADWAY GAZETTE PRESS Printing .•. AND lHERE'S A OF INFORMATION FORTHCOMIN·G ISSUES CONCOR:DIENSIS. WEALTH IN THE OF THE Subscription Price $1.50. ISSUES: FEBRUARY IB-JUNE II ADDRESS lETlERS TO: CIRCULATION MANAGER CONCORDIENSIS UNION COLLEGE SCHENECTADY, N, Y. I Weintraub, rg ... , ...• 0 Rathlev, lg ...... , .... 0 Mott, lg .•.•.•....•..• 0 Total ............... 9 F 0 2 2 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 7 F :1. 2 2 3 :1. 0 0 0 9 5 2 8 9 3 0 () 0 27 Al,;\VAVS POPULAR ifm,.,,.,,,.,,,.,,.,.,,;,,,,,,,.,,,,, • ._,,,.,,.,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,.,,,.,,mummtumnrnJIIl:llllnltn!lllniiDII!mlmiiiiHII111!tnttmtl11111tUttlllll!nnlllnlnlllnlnH~mnrllmlumnmnnnnulunnltnlmumJIIIIIIII~!Unn:mmtnlnll1;1nlnnnn\n'\\l::nur;::lml:\'::\m:• =='::::::':::::! 1 ~---------·~-~-~--~-~--~-~-~~~~~ .. ~-~-------------- -·-·-------

Page Four l'anLaak Attains Wide Recognition For Constructing Honzernade 0l'gan T·.· !tlllhlt Ill td' \\. h~·tl I•• till \\.It'll ''\t •.\,t.nt .ttl ,,t..:.ttn :tnd till ll••l ~··Itt· 'tl ~J:ty .-.t'\t·t:t: tllilldtc·d tlullai· lul t !lt'\~ lltlt' \\a.- ;-tl~Vt·d II, :. I atht·I :u.Ju-ual ut:1!1l:ll 1 l1y .J.,hr~ \';m L·tttl-1.. :~\' <~f ;-:,t•ht•IJt·cta.dy, .1~,~~ 11 \\ :·\ · Jll..,r \\. illl.t·n :lit .q..o.t.tl -··; .. dt ··,~ lau:d !u!ll-•·11' ,,n·· 'l't:' 1, -ltlt- • l11t ,. \ t·.tl :-- til :-t1a1 ,. '!lilt· \\'11! h an \I :..:_:tn. t'tlllljJ:ttaldt' 1'11 ,,• JU.t~• u! '' :·illt d ', ;t: Jt·~y ~l!ld :t :l\• :.t.'\'ll~ pf 'f<llnt· ltl tlW ll\U~it .tl !ol!Ilt;t!il!'lll. l 1 lt1\Ut•,.; td' .J(1hll :lHtl t:t- \l~_;tll l.:t\t :qqn·:ttt·d Ill (' ... I i•·-!.dt J)J~t -.t. 111 :c11;tl !1tl.'\·p:i!lt']· l.ttd c\t!l rL· .\--o~,·t:ttt·d t)t•· ...... · tll· ,·lllar,·d t'tiJllt·- t~f ttlt' !111'11!lt :t--. \\t'1l '.1.· :1 :-1111\' u't tltl' l'Oll:o-tltlt'tltlll of thc· tu ... t·Jl;Illt''llt. Tlw.-t' :-hllit·~ an•t tllt-1\llt'- t\;J\'t• it•l\ t'P 1'ht• r!OIIJ.Ut.Ju}l .,t· f•t·'ll llll!ld:-r.:jl- \\l1\rl -t•\'t•t:t1 TJ!\L··l(' [ti\'t•l :- TIIi•·~~•·n 111'.1[1' Th·· dttllt'llit:-· ,,t tht· un~lt•tl:d·un. \\l;l ht• la·~h·t uudPt-..1.n,,ti \\.\llt'll lt ~, .. lt-•:t.I!Zt•tl 1.h~tt .Jt,hn :--IH!1nl 'fJtliH -t·J.ttl·h.·' l;·t.d nd J•l:Jn• a11ol lht> t•l\ly !.··lii lit l• \'t•J\t•d \..\,\.-. 1l1tiJ, t;ot>l:.=.• T!,J·_,... ell ;~ .... :t,J: •·lt-•ti'J\•.tl t' tt..:_ Ill t t· I ; II . '' I. t.! 1' !. : l· t '' I :' i\•--JI t'•• d•---t'~t',t! !lt' \~ l,t·f Ill .::\'ldLI.I.l !J:t-. 1 ,., 1 n>:tdt :tn '\ ..:: .• n \ L•tlllt· . I \ ~ , \ · ~ . , n- !>to.t! d-. ,:. ., -!! U• • >I< 1 .... : ll ttld \l,-• •! 1 \\ t t 111 ..::111 I\ ;1 kc·~h( •tl ,: ]<.t·\-- t'Ju[IJ ·•t'•·''' J•l'.,),• ':d•lllt t ;:, TL· !J\t<-f •t\ . i\.• IL.td• I•\ .lc•fil-1 i.Jtn~· .! 1'' 1\\ • t ··d \1 tt f :t ',I •I · t' J'll\\ • l ·'' ,., I• 1''1 ,,_,,, \ .t ll I, t. t \{ _,. • ... 'IJc .. \' .-tt. ,·;tlltill t'llll.-~-1.- Ill ltlt• t'\llllltdlllt.:, til the• ''Jit•lllll~- 1:: lilt-' plpt• ... b: .. ll,t·a.ll- ti't ll~:t:.!!tt-·Jl, dt·\'h_·t-·_-,; hc·:-;ult·:-- Pb\'l .dill:.. t llt\ lit \ t•.--..-Jt Y t Ol 11111-:1 t 1{' I ;•t at·r:ciJl lt·\'1'! -.ttl!:-' \\ Ll ~·natJJ, .. Ldn~ t11 pia<·· 'ht· l'tln ... ull·' 111 t' 1 lt· \1\'lH,: llltJlll \\'!ll·l•· llw hlu\\o'J, Jn•d-:, aL·: lllt'\.'1.-111'-ll~ \'\111 ht· pl'\'t-d 1.11 <t;~ :dth·. \\'t'l'l l!ll ... :trJan.:.t•lllllt··t t'la··! Illll:-\lc' \\ 1_11 t'llll.lt' dtl\\ 11 thtcJU:...!h a I ;_:t \1, 1: I! o· l't't'lll.' ,fn1,n }HI}•t·- '11 l\,1\\t' t}lt' tl{ ::!;Ill lll Jt!:\~111~ l•Oill,ll'iolll a.;..::t'n 111 1\.\\n !JIIIlll'lt'\'. bul h~·:lt·\t\- tua' tt \\·lll ht ... ,.,t·Jrt: ~~·at.- btl••ll 11' 1 1 tl t 1 1 J 1 1 1 1 ~ :- , , ' r 11 1 • : , · t ' ' i 'II 'I,J. •lll t•t'llt>li I II ~· I J l ' ~ t·' I :\\ t I ' Dr. Welle:-; Tell:-; Students Ho\ To Lin· En.io~·ahl~ l··:,,.,j, rli \ '' ;. I \ \\ \; ... :1 \.' tn .. h. \\ ; : i ~ lit•( •.-:-.!1~ \\ .~, .... !t,t- I' I ')lt il•lt \\lilt:. , ·,,. 1 ~, , 1 1, h.. n .- · ~ J ~ \' • t ! J..... I • r t·Lt \\'··-~·rn·J·-t, · l''~t:'' t: .\!ln::\ l\ ''- 1 ]1 .. J\••l\ :··· \1 ·1•·:•: t\ I.IJ•t·nitlc.af.itHt r. 1- ~11n': 1\ :1'•·: r···1: ( t,t , t: ll.!J 1 t !.! '.<~. 'II . do\ :,t \J, II •I! I. ~·lt,Jltl • •. t.- tl\t I ,:,i,.- .,;· !••·1!- I ll! \\. :1. lit•· I.·.• ,: t I' i-..• ·, i.t •: d .•: .. ! \:. ... •. ': I .• •••• t·.:. '• I\ I '·' ., ... '! ,1' \\ . . ·.~ ~ . ! n . ! ·- ' ~ \ l -I: i .• 'i . ' . '! \ . l I • ' '.\ . I : ,t • • ''. ! J, I l .... ,,,., __ !·•1\f\'::t 1',\•··h. •lt' !-, .. ,,; \\.'' 1 \ r .\. 1, r '··· lt • ~,, • _. 1:. . .·.\ ,, · .. . . n :· ., ., _. t ~ ' l1. •• \ ' 11ft t 't t,).. • I- ,t Jlt l.l •': i~ •! ),, 11 ••. t • • 1 !11,• ,J , .• 1! :! ( \ H' 7 eck~r l~t~di() Fettlllres I·\\\\' \-• I ')if'\' IT \\'-!>Ill jz.,.,., 1'-lt/ J.' \ l l \\. Ill II ,\I \ :\ Dll\l' T\HIIH PAL 1. Dut t. L\\ J . ! ...: ' : ~ I' .t !. ' \ I' I . !: ~-: 1: ~ '' !· ( 'ruwell Injured in FaH On ~tate St n~et ~atul'da~ l 1 1tJ!t--:-••l llt\[l(o'l1' \\' ( 1 [1'\\'tll ,I) lilt• dt·p~t.ll 11\t'Hl til :\ldtit-ltl 14:111,..:llit..!t·';-, \':;_t- 11\.]lll t'•i ~:tl'\ll­ d:t\' ll\ ,-t !\:dl t·•ll ~t..llt· :-\l'tt't•T .\dhllt..:.lt ht• .- 11•11 l\lt!.lll;t•d tt• l.t,:-; lll'•l. :\lt:-o. l 'tii\V\•'1: ll\'}llllt- th:lt hl· \\I'll ht un~:hh· tu l• .t\\ ht:-- hnllll· t'tl! ahuur :1 \\t t'lc }lltlfl':--:•tlt (_\\~Iu\\'t·ll l~·llll'd ftl•lll tnlt :-.•·t Vh't' :-t:- :1 l'n,ft·:- .-I) I - t· \ \ ., 'l' ~ l' I l .. :t.~~ l) }!Ill ll t :-I :11 J1Ltllll'.<tlll\\- til ... i'lf!\<ltllll~ ~l­ !:t.l'lllt'\ lllt'Illht.'t, ~ pJ;duvt'tL..: ••llt ~ l:t;-:- ·:11 1 ;, 1 rn~1.11 ~l Dire<.'iion~ Stated For Founder's Ha~ :-- ,,f tJ;, \J•· l'r ··:--:dent·::-- : .. : .... , 1~ • ;I nd p: II t~ !P II , !- \'' ,. \\11t l'!··tt --·ttl 1-~ t 1:.\1 t>\1 ! ! :• ull- r ~ ·• l : utlt\! 1 ·: ~ }, .. (,,, :\l·nd·t~ Fth:ll-tl'. :! •• • 1 i jt - I ' ' ~ . \, :.;ti\ t • ·• I\· l I• l !: I 1 r:. •,!t. '!. l1.:tt f.;_ It• llt•!,l •.· !lt t'i:;ti\: . _. ' I I' • \ .. ',• •· I,, t \' \\til '\( ·:! \' . ' ,,. 11 • \ •. I. · .. ; •'.\ '!:• . I I . ~ ' . ,. ' tl-t • ;t, ::n..: Glee Club Makes J.nnual Invasion Of Neu~ York City ~·on feol;un• Cml<'4'1\l Bt•· jon• (;otJwm Humni llallrm>m uf thL' Hotel Astm· to ~lllg bt•fuo\ wha.\ app<'Url'd to be the l.n g .. =--t t u1nuut for tllP roncPl't in ·t·\·t·• al yL•c.u \\'· ,\nw·n~ t ho~t· in at'- lt·n·lntl<'P Wl'l'l' llr. an<l :\1!,;. Dix\n H~·:~n !<'ox. :1.11<1 :\.lo am! !V[r,;. \\'al- l,. 1 C\ Bakt·r. Tl1\ CotH't'l'1 undt•r tht> u~ual filH• , :It'•.~in~ nf Dt·. Titlnl:U!4h, '\\'a::-. ._., ll t't>l'l'iYI'd. Tlw ~kit fpntut·ing; Hent y Cla~· in tht· t ult'::; uf Dwight Ft:-: lh· an-d uut· o\\'11 Pl't'!·:idc.•nt HPo:--<1'\'('lt wa~ (Jilt' of t.IH'\' hig-hhght::-; of tht· \\·huh· pt·oguun. The ~inging of vanou:-:: 1 'nion ~ong:-:. by thP I ,\Junllll with \lot• Glvt· Cluh, dill'L'ted l:\· l:l>J.J..J:-\ L. T\\'J;o.;J:\{} . hy 1•'. \-lil'ltlPr Hbhllp '21 pt·ovt·d 1·o !n •h·· t•:tl !~· •lllic•t nf last Sa.tut-; lw i1Illll<'l1t'Piy ~ll<'C't>SSful. Folluw- d:ty n:•·lnin:..:. tiH· tilt·t• l'luh. ~~3: 1111-:. th•·' t'Olh'l'll a. da.nl\t' \\·a:-:: hrld ...._. '\._.. k ,. · in I ht• bal~h-uotll. It wa.:--> ol.h·>l'l\Vrd ... t!\l!~ lt··t\t ttH \\''\\ J.!•l' \lty t<'-tha.t Andtt'\V Dt\·hur~-h ~·a~ tdp- ,1 qtl'.i'l 111 It.- :tllllli:tl <'-'IH'Pt1 }Jpfolt' ping tilt' li~ht fania~tic \\\ith .:-;t•\'Ptttl 1 ')1' :'\c'\\ Yulk .. \.l.tllllll. nl·:\pitt• lhP' nf tilt• lllll('h Ylltlll:.!t.'l :'t't. 1·, :·t1~1d~ ;u 11 ! ft~tt·br~tPln·· dalli \\'t• ft·t'l that lht· dub o\\'(),:0: :\11~. dt•ad:-- fht• or t1H' ... ft-•llo\-\':-': F(IX a YlllP o_t' thHnk::-- !'ol provitHn.g ~P 11 1 t.-; : ~Ul'h :qJpPa.ltng dane In~ }HlTtnr-t·~ ,\.,·It-' 111 1111 \\a~ tlanlpt-nP<l. rr'hPI fut· :,-:(•\'t'Ial lllcrnbPI'~ of th<' eluh. !•11· .·:tJ•·.-m~ :!~l ntt·Jl and l:l.t·nr;..· \Yt 1 v..·,luld ~ay Hu-11 Elnu·r John~oll t'!,\··- t ttltlll \\,t_tlll <'lfl\lllg ft1Ul.• l;li!'d \t'l~ Wt•ll \.\ith hi:-; lH''\\ly 1 1 H' 1 ·~ 1 1 . I found ,hall w•· sav. acqumntanrP, l J 11 \.,., t' . litHtlt\t 1:.2 l • c too III ~w~\ Ktnl2.. \\'\t· ~at wlt h hPr at tlu• 1.111•· l•ll :•Jrcllt•tJt~ JlJ. Cha1 It-:-:: }!.~.\~ten· H<tl :tn·l Wt'It' nw:-t favol\aLly \' •. ~J,:,t. p:IIJt'lpal ,,f .Januuca 1 1II1Jilt·:o::.--1-d~. lit...: II :--idJtltd 1 :tlHl PtL'~ldPnt ot' tht•! .. :\~ lu what thP l'P:.::t (lf thl' boys .\; •. ,,. y,ll h: .\lurnni .A.:--:-<tH'i:tttoll, t'll : dll.l <tftt•r tlu• d:Jl'let•, unly va.gtH' - 1 ntnltH:-\ h:l\'l' I'Pal'ht•tl oUl t•ar~ .. .:\}l- \t· ~ lt. T!dl!lat .... ll and t'ht·: p:tli'llt.ly t.hl'y Wt'lt' ~plt-•:ul all o\t'l .:, 1t l~tn•·f,,-,,n llllttwdta.tt·ly ful 'rh.· :\1•-•tJnpiiiJt:tn tlbtnC't. \II..' 111ndi thf\ club ~·tvt• a <\011- 1 ~.1tlltd~t\' aftt·tnollll tilt· ('·lub l , 1>1 u:uit-:1:->t. n\'t·t \Von ()n a l'u,t:--.t t<J • 1 ! h11 :l}ll'l'tX.UJtatt·;y fittt•t•n tun-, ('tJ:t~t w•twork. B.t>\.~m·<ling:-. \-\'l'l·e l11 d .t udt·t.t~ ~-,,nlJitl .... t·tl nw:--:.tly of llHHh· nf tht· hlna.dc~ 1 .---;t und \o\'111 bfl .:,tl ·1:lt i·:-l.t•t.~• ~~·t t!,t• :ttldit·,t\t :---ttlllll!ltt·d [til lt.lll:llltt' Ill 1111' :\:1- 't• t!tt· ,•l.llb· .... r' n,:~tttlJII_... v.:;1:--: Itl\lll'i ti1 1 1lHl (;lt·P Club C'tn~.tt>:-~t L , 11 J~l· ., ·n..: :t r:.l , . ...: 1 w,•i:dly .., 11 1 n; ~a tnt day aftt·tnoun a.nd l'\'t'l11Hg, ·•lilt' ,,f th•· t'dl•~\\:- al-tt•Jldt·d tht 111t t'l tJl t't :1 t I on 11 f, tJ}lt 1:1, :-:tlllll' 1 t'lli'\\.t'tl : ht· ft•ntintrH' l':'ci: l~ttllt• \\'\IU ... atllllat·qu;l!ll.l.:l.lh':-i IIl'~tJI\·t' L.\· tlll'Ul l'ht·j 111 . 1 (H'••\':111.1--. ;rftt·tnoon a.nd t'\'Plllll1.!. · f<,l:ln\\'111..;, tht• <'''ll('t'lt PVPI\'UIH'. I ~n11.day ll1tll'l1illl..!. at 111 30 thP (_'Juh 1 ~_n,l ,,,, I11•:_ 1 .r 1 t·\·, 1 _\.tlllt' 1 -Ptin•rJ:l,Irl :ulit·U ttl ~t'\-\' Yoll{ and lwadt·d' '' t;,, ~~ill \\ht·11' a d'!lH'I~ '\'a .... ··IHHt!t'WH.I'll i .. I' 1' 1 !1 '1,•1 II! Tt ...:t•t'llJ ... t;h:t.l :-· \ t. f::•- l't!IH}'l····,·h· Ld{f'll 11\\t'l <'.4..Li'~XDAH Tuesda~· I· 311 Jl. In Fa<'Ul ty Tt•a. 1-fal•• Houst• l.tJUngL' ~l: 1:-1 J ou rnalb.;m C'lass. Si 11 i- \'\\ llnll \\.'t•dm•stht~· ]O.IJU :1 Eel><> 11 ldo\'\ m. Ilaill' A~>emblv. \'. ::--;. D1 apeo \Tl;P :til) p. nt. J{mlio Club in g, E 1•:. Lab Thnrsda;;- \11.11() a. !ll. Daily A,;~!'mbly Prof. E. S. C. Smith 11 IH>·I ~ ll'l I'· m. Fotuu!ro ·~ nay ExL~t-eisP;-i l\1Pmol'ial C'h:opl'l .J j:')t,( 1 !'1._. .. ,_ 1·>-~·t \'tfn•· t1 w·k-.. •~\ .. ·l:ttl.•· -fl'· '\'· :IJJd ttl•' l'U!t1D Illt'l1. LOUIS WASSERMAN ,., .•' .. ,, I'd •J·, : 1 , .• ;:1_,: •L:•••t :!1 l:1•·l\ nf ;Ibilit·y or ., : .. I ;, I. .-.J. .\ _lfl .t: 1 11 t!. ·It,, ,·!·'Ill·-•'tl '!:1 ·t ',\ t ;:i t 11-''!,t.: :~ b• • I J) ·; 1\ ·1-.:: \\. 1 \w - d ; w!' • ~ 1 • i -'!'l'q•:• o!: -l:k· tot' tIt . nn•·. 1 t•fra.itt- ··d titJ!ll • ni.•J!tu: 1111o tlH• ftaY. QUALITY MEAT IVIA.R~ET \ • l- :~· '' t t'll\11 Itt 111 T't'd ,,; :..;t'\\' 'J .. ,q ~' <':·y .\' .., t:-) 1 il·· ! ~lt't' Club t't ~ ltd•·d lh,· Jd'i.t'ullll ••f rht• Xotth • land 354 Broadway and -vvhen you on Chesterfields you find the three points <lf smoking pleasure ... all ym1 look for in a cigarette JYJJLDN ESS that's re/reshin~ TASTE that smokers like Phones 4·3364, 4-3365 J'Ou'l/ find MORE PLEASURE A RO A1A that makes you down· right hungry for a smoke. in Chesterfields milder !Jetter taste d! l'13RI Lrr.r,f.TT &. ~hTR' Ton. . .a,r ( (J ru.

Pag€ Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1938 VanLaak Attains lVide Recognition For Constructing Homemade Organ Crowell Injured in Fall Glee Club Makes On State Street :Saturday Professor Hobert W. CroweH of the department of Modern Languages, was injured Satur- day in a fall on State Street. Although he is not confined to his bed, Mrs, Crowell reports that he will be unable to leave his home for about a week. Annual Invasion Of New York City Ballroom of the Hotel Astor to sing before what appeared to. be ·the' laegest turnout for the con,cert in several years. Among .those in at-· tendance were Dr. ·and Mrs. Dixon: Ryan Fox, and Mr. and Mrs. Wal-'. ter C. Ba:ll:.el'. CALENDAR Tuesday 4:30 p. tn.-Faculty Tea, House Lounge 5: 15-J·ournaJism Class, man HaH Hale Silli- <!---- ------------ --- -- The prQblem of what to do when you want an organ and do not care to pay several hundred dollars for a new one was solved in a -rather unusual manner by John Van Laalr, '38, of Schenectady. John, who \just wanted an u1gan\ :;et out .to build himself one. The result~: three years of spare, time work, an organ compara-ble to the manufactured variety, and a measure of fame in the musical fil:mament. Pictures of John and his organ have appeared in Col- legiate Digest, in local newspapers, and even the Associated Press cir- culated copies of the picture as well as a story of the constr-uction of the instrument. These stories and pictures have led to the formation of pen f·riendships with several musio lovers. Thiessen Helps The difficulty of the undertaking will be better understood when it is realized that John started \from :;cratch;' had no plans, and the only help he received was from George Thiessen, '38, an electl'ical engineer. In so far as it has beE'n possible to discover, no other in- dividual has ever made an organ at hon1e. John used part.o from old reed organs, and used two organ key- boards as well as a keyboard from an old square piano in ttH• con- stl·uction. The cabinet work, the frame, and most of the action parts were made by John himself. The blower is powered with a •, horse pmvPr electric motor. Van Laak sets the total cost of butlding 1.11 .. ut ~an t.elow $100. t:lPl'trifiration cation con.,ists in the cont1·olling of the openings in the J!lipes by means of magneitc devices; :besides ·obvi- ating the necessity foT most of the action levers, th-is will enable John to place the console in tbe living · room while the blower, reeds, and mechanism can be placed in the attic. With this arrangernnet the music -will come down through a,. gl'ill in thE' eei·ling, John hopes ~o have the organ in playing condition again in two months, but believes, that it wi 11 be several years 'before it is ultimate!)• completed. Professor C r o w e ll· retired fr.om full service as a profes- sor several years ago but he still maintains his p0sition a:; a faculty member, conducting one class in German 5. --------------~-----~- Dh'ections Stated For Founder's Day T·he Concert under the us,ual fine: directing ·Of DI;, Tidl;liarsih, Wl'!-S,: weB Tecelved. The skit featurh1g;: Broadcast, Dances~ Lunch· Henry Clay in the roles .o:f Dwight,· Fiske an.d our own President' eon Feature Conc€rt Be- Roesevelt was one of the highlights: fore Gotham Alumni of the whole program. The singing~ of various Union songs by the, I Alumni with the Glee Club, directed; By RO:t.LIN L. TWINING by F. Michler Bishop '24 proved to: In the early quiet of last Satu-r- be immensely successful, Follow-· day morning the Glee Club, 33 ing the concert a dance was held-' Wednesday 10:00 a m.-Daily Assembly, Edson V. S. :Dra:per \The Idol\ 1:00 p. m.-Radio Club Meet- Ing, il;l:. E. Lab Thursday 10:00 a. m.~Daily Assembly Prof. E. S. C. Smith 11:00-12:00· p. m.-Founder's Day Exercise.s Memorial Chapel in the ballroom. It was observed strong 1eft for New York City to, that Andrew Dry burgh was· trip- appear in its annual concert before ping the light fantastic with several the New York Alumni. Despite the of the much younger set. Gootl Tonal Qualities Membe1s of the Faculty will meet. w • 1· th t th 1 b \\ icy roads and foreboding dark ·e .ee · · a · e c u owes .. , .. rs. Dr. Elme1· A. Tidmarsh, who has in caps, gowns· and hoods on the Fox a vote of thanks for providing played upon the organ, sa.id that it walk in front of the Old Chapel clouds the spirits of the fellows such appealing dancing partners ':••••••••••••••••••••••: had \very gQOd tonal qualities.\ He, punctually at 11 a. m. The marshal were in no way dampened. 'The for several members of the club. • 111 added t.fiat he considered the build- will be Professor Taylor. A double bus carrying 29 men and Henry We· would say that Elmer Johnson 11 II . f 1 h' Hne in t·everse m·der of academic f d. 11 'th h' 1 •. p A T R O N· I Z E T H E • 11 1ng o lre organ a great ac 1eve-. Clay's station wagon carrying four, are very we Wl ' IS new Y · · . t d ·d h t 't h ld rank will be formed facing the f d 'hall · t men an sal t a 1 s ou prove M . arrived at Jamaica High School in ·oun ' s .. , we say, acqualn ance, • • inva-luable experience for any fu-, emorial Chapel. In case of m- \Sue\ King. We sat with he·r at the • 11 lure 01 .gan wol·k done by Van Laak .. clement weahter professor,; will as- time for luncheon. Dr. Charles H., Astor Ba·•' and were most ~avorably • • Although Dr. Tidmarsh pl·O-, semble in the Washburn Hall colon- Vosburg-h, pl'incipal of Jamaica impt·essed'. = II n~unced John a ver:>' talented or- nade near Room 2-at the same High School, and President of the As to what the rest of the boys =. :Va.n·. Cur-l•er a. ganist capable of pursuing th<2' hour. New York Alumni Association, en- did :after the dance, only vague . . work as a vocation, John, who last Members of the President's party rumors have reached our ears. Ap- • • year won the prize for music app•'e- will assemble at Hale Hou:oe at the tertained Dr. Tidmarsh and the parenlly they were spread all over 11 11 ciation has made no definite plans same huur, o1· in case of indement club at lunch!'on. Immediately fol- the Metropolitan district. • T ·R II in this diiection, and for the pres- weather, at H.oom 3, Washburn lowing lunch the club gave a con- Saturday afternoon the club .= !\p• ·oom 11 • 11 ent prefers to regard it as a hobby. Hall. cert for approximately fifteen hun- broadcast over WOR on a coast to U Membe1s of the President's party coast network. Recordings wel'e • • vided with cap,;, gowns and hoods drcd students, composed mostly of mact·e of the broadcast and wiH be • • {) Dr. Well-es Tells Students How T'o Live Enjoyabl~· tihould confer with E'rufe\\\'r E. C. girls. The response of the audience submitted for entrance in the Na- : ·: Bacon at the Chemidtry Building to the club's renditions was mol'e tiona! Glee Club Contest. • • on ()r befo1e Monday. February 21. than p!('asing-, and especially so to· Sa:turda.y afternoon and evening, •.• J. hey •: At 11: 10 a. m. the academic pro- so-me of the feHowti attended the · cession will enter the Memorial th£> quartet's interm·etation of opera, some renewed the feminine • ,. \Freedom. and victory- •will be Chapel, the Faculty filling the seats 'Let's Pitch a Little Woo\ and acquaintancs made by them the • • ours if \'\ make friends with resetved fo 1 them in the center sel'- \Ros:1lie.\ previous after.noon and evening. : A DV E RJ Is E. 11 necessity,\ was the principle which tlon f10m back to f•·ont. Capti wili Following the concert everyone, Sunday morning at 10:30 the Club • . : the Rev. DL KPnn£>th B. Welles of not be , emoved in Chapel cxc£>pt and r do mean everyone--retired bid adieu to New York and headed ·• II the Wes'tlnim•tPt' Church, Albany. during the offering of prayer. to the gym where a dance was homeward. • • pen<•Jasively PXpulllHh·d y..-~tetday At thP rnn£>lu~ion of t!JF• ••x .... ·i~.-~- g!VI'll lll our honor. It s~ems that lllal•••••••••••••••••••• The iru;tl ument llao a ,;tandard keyl:>oat·d, has five rank:; of reeds, three keyboards. ~ nd one set of 1e~ula1· pedal reed~ a> well as two ex pression pedals. in h1s Sunday morn-ing \ervrees in the Faculty will follow the P1 esi- \Swing-\ has complete!~ taken -over the Memol'ial ChapeL dent'~ party in t'l'V£'rse ordPr to that Jamaica l-J.igh. Everyone trucks, Dr. WellE·,; cnntt>nded that if we used in entering. everyone RhP.(\S ana the Union men, clothe ou1 \duties\ with \willing- College exercise• at R and 9 Pi.ther through lack of ability or ness\ 11·y to makP mw I'PCJUhf'd o'clo£>1\ will be held as. usual: those simple dl<lilte of thn same, refrain- work our \chosen\ work:, then we which u~ually begin at 10:20 o'clock ed from entering Into the fray. will ha\·<' more enjoyment in life. will be~in at 10 and be dismissed nt At -!:30 the club returned to New live rnon significantly and cPr- 110:50: tho,;e which usually begin at York City. At 8:45 the Glee Club tainly li\:r less painfully. ! 11 :20 o'cloclt will be suspenrlecl. ascPnded the> platform of the North LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALiTY MEAT MAR.KET Phones 4·3364, 4m3365 Twiee rebuilt, the organ is now apart again and is in the proce>'S uf being eleetritied. This E'lectrifi- ------------------- lY~\eekly R,tdio Fedtures LA \X REM.Io TIBBETT A~nRr Kn<Trr.'\~fT7 PALL \li.' Ill! lMAl'oi DEEMS TAYLOR PAUL Dou<..LAS JOu'// find MORE PLEASURE in Clzesteifields milder better taste Copyright t 938, LlGGI!IT & MYERS ToBACCO Co. ~54 Broadway '· ·-. . .. · ... and when you land on Chesterfields you find the three points. of smokin~ pleasure ... all you look for in a cigarette MILDNESS that's refreshing TASTE that smokers like AROMA that makes you down· right hungry for a smoke. :z .. ] ] ] I \ i

y Tea, Hale SHli- Assembly, \The Club Meet- Assembly Memorial II • • THE: y • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • B • • • • •• • • • 4a3365 ·-· . ., tS 1938 :Z5U Founders' Day Issue Vol. LXI., No. 36 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1938 PRICE FIVE CENTS Union College Honors Dirck Romeyn Today I Fraternities P l an Initiation of 117 Men Over Weekend Romeyn Tablet Senior Committee 1Founders' Day ·Chosen to Consider • Convocation Ma,rks of Union:~s Founding Class Insurance Annzversary Week of Informal Ceremony Precedes Final Formal lnduc:tions Mild Hell Week Frosh R(}mp Ab(}Ut Campus Performin.g Various Idle P'ranks With all of the customary cere- mony and tomfool['ry, 117 pledge;; will thi:s weekend. be presented for ·initation in Union \s nineteen frater- nities. Definite initation plans have not been revealed but it is expected that a large number of alumni and national fratel'nity officials will be on the campus to witness the in- duction of the new members. The usual Hell Week pranks have been taking pla<Je since Monday mor·ning, and were in full swing by Tuesday when t.wo neophytes in suspicious c i r cu. m s tan ces were picked up by the local police and spent the night ln the city jaiL The above tablet is embedded in the floor of Memor-ial Chapel before the cbancel steps. Fifteen Fraternities Will Sponsor Ball Terrace Council and Seniors Of Student Council Appointed Bennett Approves Two Membe1·s of Group Ready To Accept Proposed Benefit Plan Monday, Feb. 21.--The Te1 race Council and .,;enior members uf the · Student Cuuncil will act a.; a com- mittee to inaugurate a Class En- dowment Fund through a life in- sui ance plan, acco1ding to an an- nouncement made this afternoon at Hale House by class ptesident Win- terton U. Day. An informal discussion of the in- sul'ance plan took place at which two uf the eight seniors indicated that they would be willing to take out life insurance policies of $1,000 each with a provision that the col- lege receive first dividends on that amount up to $100 as a gift from the class. LEWIS SEBRING, Jr. . Hallenbeck, '40, Unveils Tablet in Memory Of F()under Degree Granted L. E. Sebring, Jr. Receives Master ()( Letters Award Friday, Feb. 25--With the dedica- tion of a mat\bie tablet to the mem- ory of Dirck Romeyn, Union Col- lege this morning observed its 143rd birthday with exercises in Memorial Chapel. A tablet of silver-gt ay Tennessee marble framed in black marble was .the gift of Lewis Beclt Sebring, '92, and his son, ·Lewis Beck Sebl'ing, Jr., '23, both direct descendants of Romeyn. The· tablet, which is em- bedded in the :floor of the chapel before the steps of the chancel, was presented to the college, along with other valuable Romeyn memora- ,bilia, including the Romeyn family Bible. The list of ca11didates for initia- tion follows: AliJb.a. Delta Phi Officers: JohnS. Wold, '38, Sche- nectady, president; Preston T. Reed, '38, Hartsdale, vice-president. The othet· seniors present ap- proved of the method for raising the fund and withheld decision temporarily, waiting further knowl- Fifteen fraternities have Pledged edge of the plan. their support to the first All- BeJ.mett Approves Plan President and Mrs. Fox Will Entertain F acuity Press Final Action On Functional Plan The principal address of the cere- mony was deHvered by Dr. William H. S. Demarest, President Emeritus of Rutgers University, who de- scribed the part played by the Dutch in the making of the nation. Candidates for Initiation: Fresh- men-John P. Bininger, Douglas- ton, L. I.; David W. Fairfield, Woodstock, C<>nn.; Richard Hil- di\eth Herkimer, N.Y.; Clarence H. McCain, Boontoa, N. J.; Albert N. McCartney, Washington, D. C. Sophomores-Jay- P. Dayton, Point Breeze, Kent, N. Y. Juniors--Rich- ard G. Day, Schenectady. Fraternity Ball sponsored by the Student-Coordinator William W. newly formed Interfraternity Coun- Bennett who was present at the cil to be held from 10 to 3:00 o'clock in the Alumni Gym on the meeting .gave his approval of the Chi Psi Officern: President, Edson V. S- Draper, •as, Roeky- Mount, N. C.; vice-president, Frederick B. Haw- ley '38, Bridgeport, Conn.; Treas- urel', Doug-las C. Murphy, '39, Pas- saic, N. Y.; Secretary, Donald Ford, '38, Albany, N. Y. Candidates for Initiation: Fresh- men-Roger D. Marshall, Roslyn Heights, James E. Twining, Jr., Ridgewood, N. J.; R. Gordon Mur- phy, Passaic, N.J.; Howard 0. Matt, S\henectady; John C. Gui- bert, Jr., Baldwin, N. Y.; Ge()rge W. Norris, Jr., Little Falls, N. Y.; James J. K~ough, Springfi,eld, Mass.; William J. Hartt, -Spring- field, Mass. Sophomore-William P. Filkin, North Tr<IY- Delta. Chi Officers: Howard C. Van Keuren, '39, NarroWsburg, president; Joseph C. Clifford, '3.9, Gloversville, vice- president;. Paul D. Mahoney, '40, Schenectady, sect\etary; and E. Sheridan, '4(), Westpor-t, Conn. Candidates for Initiation: Fresil- menr-Burton R. Payne, Hamden, Conn. Sophomores - Richard D._ Hearns, Fonda; Louis W. Hallen- beck, Hoffmans. Delta Pbi Officers: George Doyle, '38, hoes, president: DeWitt Brown, '38, Albany, vice,president: Edward M. Hafner, '4-0, Brooltlyn, secretary; George Doyle, treasurer. Candidates for Initiation: FreslJ., men-Ronald Ostrander, Schenec- tady: Richard S. Crellin, Chatham: Gordon H. Parker, Madison, Wis.; Edwin W . .Sca.ntlebury, Schenec- tady: Walter E. Plummer, Albany; George W. Hems ted, II., Albany i Wiiliam H. Walker, Lynbrook; William F. Walker, Springfield, Mass. Sophommes-Robert Rod- well, Schenectady. Delt~~o Upsilon Officer(!.: Willard W. Dea,n, '38, Glens Falli;!, P:resident; John H. Gil- mour, '38; O~k Park, lll., vice-:~>resi­ dent; H. Wyman Hitchcoclc, '39, Cambridg~. N. Y., Treasurer; Paul H. Teare, '3&, Cleveland, Ohio, secre- tary. Candidates for Initiation: Fresll- men: Edward R. Bartlett, Ogdens, burg; Robert B. Corby, Englewa()d> N. J.; Eugene A. Fink, Schenec- tady; Stanley B. Hill, Westfield, N.J.; PaulY. 'Mara, Beacon, N.Y.; (Continued on Page 6) program and assisted in sugges- annual Interfraternity Night on tions for getting the fund securely March 18, according. to an an-· started. The seniors present were nouncement made recently by. John Nott, '38, chairman of the Day, H. Laurence Achilles, Hyman dance committee. A. Enzer, William H. Hawkes, Frederick B. Hawley, Joseph Paul, The decorations will follow a . Carl R. Trahman and John S. garnet and white color scheme, Wold. Harold B. Ackerman, mem- with streamers of crepe paper ber of the senior board of the Stu- forming a canopy over the floor of dent Council, was unable to be the gymnasium. This will serve to present. obliterate the sight of the upper On the recommendation of floor and the roof of the building. Hawkes the seniors decided that a Low hung lanterns will supply the public presentation of the plan be necessary lighting for the dance made next week in daily assembly floor. Gates at either end of the by President Da.y, and that a ques- floor will give entrance to the dane- tionnaire be distributed at the same ing space. The side walls are to be time to all seniors to determine lined with booths of the various how well the plan is understood. houses, fourteen of which have al- According to the suggested pro- ready contracted for the necessary gram each policy-holder would space. make an investmnet in a $1,000 life Tickets fot· the dance are $3.00 policy. The first accumulated divi- and are on sale at present at the dends, up to $100 would be turned Kappa Alpha Lodge. The week be- over to the college in approximately fore the dance the price will be 17 years. The original investment raised to $4.00. plus all othet' dividends after those The music will be provided by given to the college would remain the Hudson-DeLange Or<'hP~tra the property of the individual. In which played at the Skidmore case of death before $100 has ac- Beaux Arts Ball last Saturday. cumulated, the ·college would re- They are well known for their ceive its full gift and the other original song hits and for their ar- beneficiaries their full share of the rangement-s. rest of the policy. Campus Sees Usual Unusual Pranks As Freshmen Suffer in ''HelllVeek'' By C. RUSSELL DEYO ~·----------~---------- Hell week, that mucll maligned period of <lollege life, brings many interesting not to say amusing sights, before the observant eye of the undergraduate, Autographed eggs, suits on backward, fly-catch- ers, and mutes are only a few of the unusual sights observed here during the last weelt. Two Phi Sigma Delta pledges were sent out last Sunday to catch a few fiies. They star ted out acros~ the Scotia. .bridge, snooping in evecy possible spot. A few hours later they called their ftaternity house from the jail. A bewildered looking Kappa Sigma pledge was seen on the cam- pus last Mo-nday carrying a large alarm clodt, upside down. It seems that this \Was a sort of penance for not waking .the active brothers at 6 o'clock eYery morning. Freshmen .rush this way and that bent on all important missions, their bro'Ws creased with worried ft\owns. Tuesday night a Phi Sigma Delta pledge made a round of all the fraternities, beseeching the head of each house to autograph an egg which ·he l'everently -revealed ensconced In the folds· of a large handkerchief. We quote fr<1m a \Disse1tation on Love\ written recently by one of the unhappy initiates: \My fl'iends, love is that state of su- preme and infinite bliss in which one is hopelessly lost when the at- tl'action to, and the affection for one of the opposite sex becomes so great that one cares to prolong this mi~erable life no longer, unless it be in the constant nearness of that dear Light of Heaven and Earth, the cherished ·One. One feels .that to be away from the sacred pres- ence of this shining Goddess is to be cast into the bottomless depths of Hell! ! While to be with her is to be f.alsed up .to, and even a:bove, the most glorious pinnacles of Heaven!! Oh, what joy; what bliss; what rap- tures; what ecstasy; her tender caresses bring! And what sorrow; what despair: what anguish it is to be without her! LOVE, my friends, is the supreme, the ulti- mate happiness that any man can know, and no one on whom this great blessing has not befallen has ltnown what lt Is to live!\ Sebl'ing Ta.llts on Romeyn President and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox will be hosts at the annual reception for the mem- bers of the faculty and their wives to be held at Hale House this evening at 1(} o'clock. Mrs. James Watt Mavor, Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Mrs. John Bellamy Taylor, and Mrs. Charles N. Waldron will preside at the tea and coffee tables. Lewis Sebring Jr. also spoke and Committee Chosen to Consider gave an account of the life of Romeyn, his gt\eat great, great Remaining Articles grandfather, after which Lewis W. A feature of the reception will be the showing of several reels of motion pictures of \An Odys- sey Cruise of the Aegean Sea\ filmed by Walter C. Baker last summer on a. European trip which he made with Dr. and Mrs. Fox. Mrs, Walter C. Baker will be present at the reception with her husband. The films will be shown in the Old Chapel at 9 o'clock before the reception proper takes place. They depict many of the scenes of the fabled Ulysses' adventures as related in Homer's epi<J. Mr. Baker has captured much of the glamour of a far di\stant past in his mo- tion pictures which are a vivid reminder of his travels. L. Sebring, Jr., Active In Journalistic Field Lewis B. Sebring, Jr., joint donor of the Romeyn memorial and to- day's recipient of Union's honorary degree of Master of Letters, has been characterized during his ca- reer in the publications world by a constant interest in his work, his college, and his forebearers. Sebring was born In Schenectady January 20, 1901. Preparing in the public schools here, he attended Union, graduating in 1923. News- paper work first seriously took his attention during his last three years in college when he held a general reportership on the Sche- nectady Gazette as well as a posi- tion on the staff of the Concordien- sis of which he was managing edi- tor in his senior year. Upon graduation Sebring became affiliated with the i\.'!sociated Press where, by a series of promotions, he advanced from filing editor at Albany to a political reporter in the New York office. In May 1928 he temporarily left the press to act as office manager of tl;J.e Associa- tion of Life Insurance Presidents in New York City, but a year and a half later joined the New York Herald Tribune where he has since remained. Of Constitution .Hallenbeck, '40, a collateral descend- ant of Rome:yn. unveiled the tablet. A surprise which featured the ex- . ercises was the gt'anting of the Wednesday, Feb. 23-A conunittee honorary degree of master of let- of three seniors and two juniors ters in Union College to Mr. Sebring was appointed by the Student Coun- Jr. The candidate was presented to cil tonight to press final action on Dr. Fox by Walter c. Baker, '15, the proposed form of functional trustee of the eollege, and Dr. John representation. Hyman A. En.zer, L. March, as senior professor of the William H. Hawkes, H. Laurence college, placed the symbolic hood Achilles, Jr., seniors; David L. on Sebring's shoulders. Yunich and David B. Miller, jlln- In his address Dr. Demarest cited iors, will consider the remaining the t'ole played by the Dutch in the· articles of the constitutions sub- colonization cf America, and traced ~~:ted last fall by Vilmar K.. Bose, the development of their influence on American culture. Excerpts from At the same meeting after con- his speech follow: sideration of instituting an honor \Today In -this presence our at- system for examinations, the com- tention turns to one of the few mittee composed of Harold B. elements that \Vere vitally present Ackerman, '3&, and Thomas H. in the very early days of the na- Ralston, '40, recommended that fac- tional life, maldng racial eontribu- ulty proctoring at examinations be tion. to the developing and now made more strict. This recommen- highly developed commonwealth.\ dation will be sent to the adminis- The influence of the Dutch is tration. An honor system was con- s~en in our basic political institu- sidered not feasible because of th<~ t1ons. In the Constitution can be lack of tradition so essential to found the principles and procedure such a system. of the Dutch national life. The PH- Tonight the Council tentatively grirns at Plymouth, who were to concluded the most important parts develop into New England, the first of the second title of the constitu- baclrbone of tl!e nation, had come tion, after having made significant from a period of ilfe in Holland. changes in the suggested method of Dutclt Settled 1624 elections to the council. . The J?utch had the asset of prior- The Proposed Form 1ty, bemg settled for trading by., As proposed about 40 students would serve on the council, elected from three different groups: class officers, the four classes and the student activities, President of classes would automatically be elect- ed, 25 students-at-large wiht 11 sen- iors, seven juniors, five sophom-ores and two freshmen would be elected by each class with equal bala.nce for fraternity and non-fraternity men, and 11 representatives from every tax-supported activity. There would be no man holding more than one office on the coun· cil. A smaller group for sitting in between times that the larger group met would be chosen from the 40 representatives. A detailed report will be made by the committee at the meeting of the council a -week fro mnext Wednesday. To Play Piece Symph0<11iqne 1614. and for home life by 1624. Thelt' far-reacl!ing patroon system entrenched their culture. But it was not coniined to New England, but. exte:r:de_d to New .Jersey. Thus, their pr1or1ty was m a location t~at was strategic for the expan- SIOn of the new country, in a sec- tion that now is the site of the na- tion's metropolis. It was especially strategic in being between the northern spirit of New England nnd the southern spirit of Virginia. 'The Duteh carried with them a pioneer spirit lrom a. land of adven- ture and new ·projects, the instinct ~f trade, and a zeal for the land. With the Tribune Sebring has served first as a reporter assigned mostly to city administration, from December, Hl30 to June, 1935 as assistant night city editor, and since the latter .date as full night city editot\ The works of Sigfried. Karg- Elert and the Grand Piece Sym- phonique of Caesar Franck will be featured i;n the Sunday afternoon organ recita,I this week acc<>rdi.ng to an announcement from Dr. El~ mer Tidmarsh, They were well-informed and they \:'ere well-fixed in ideas of educa- tion.\ The ·common school there was in advance of the common school anYV!here else, They had their influence in the founding of ;King's, now Columbia, and the Col- lege of New Jersey, now Princeton, shortly after Queens College, now Rutgers, and still a little later Union College, Mr. Sebring's account of Romeyn represents over a year's research in an effort to uncover the distin- guished l'ecord of this previously unpublicized father of the college: (Continued on Page 3)

y Tt•a. Halt> <'las~. Silli- tL;\' A~>emblv. \TI;P Club Met'!- ~~· A\>Ptubly 1. F'uumkt ·~ .M~mul'ial II • • THE: 1111 II • • • • Ill • • Ill • • II • • • • • • II II II II Ill IJ! II 4-3365 •• • 1795 1938 z 511 Foundel'S\' Day Issue VoL LXl., No. 36 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., J.'lliDAY, FEIJHUARY 25, 1938 PHICE l•'lVE CE:\TS Union College Honors Dirck Romeyn Today I Fraternities P l a n 1 l ni tia tion of 117 Men Over Weekend J(mm')'ll 1'ablet Convocation MarJcs 1 Senior Commi~t~e;]Founders' Day ; Chosen to Cons1 d~ri • We-ek of Informal Ceremony '[c) the~ MPH!<Wy ot' tht' r ··-,,_({(>\ .[ . Founding I Class Insurance' Annwer_sary_ o_f_U~n·_~_on_ '~ JTel'race Council and ~eni()r~, PAY TRIBUTE TO DUTCH SETTLERS .,Hallenhedi:, '-10, l'nveils Precedes Final Formal Inductions ~ -·. ~ \' f ~11) h?~k R~!it I>Wl : Of ~t udent Council · 'I'ahlet in :\k'llHll'Y .\ppointed Of Founder :.H.ild Hell Week Frush l{omp .\bout. ('ampus Performing Various Idle Pranks l~~tl••l\ill' }t't~t;\l:yr~ 1/i't·•, \p1 tllfH:l\ . · l't)llnd·~~· ;,r hcnnctt .\pprove~ I\\ o )Icmbt•rs of Gruup l{t~.HI.' To .\ect'p! Proposl'd Benefit l'htn :) ( : ! ! E N t·: C L'\ 1) Y (>...,c;< 1 (';!1~~:\CAtH:MYl/;1; \l!Ht Li'u<\•)i: !)1 !lw1'illt tvh!l•l of UNtQNb)hU.<iHI?')· ~londa·. 1-<1>. ~1. n\. T.:r\. , . ! , ,- . ·, ~ ~ .· ·- , l \'t•llll• 11 ... · :(1 .~•·li Jr •I Il!t'lliltt·l .· ••I '11 t \\'it It all ol Ult• l'IJ'l\ll\\ ,. ('l'l ··- '.'.,··.' .. :,· .. :.·;.r.(:;, [lt\·~.-··_: •. , ... '.r.·,,~ft lm_tr.~· JlUlll,Y <ilttl ttJllllLuh·J)', 11( •tJit-d~l.:.- ··~-- ,.Jh f \i) ~ !y l .-~ll]llt•;Jt ( •-\ll\111 \\ ilJ dl 1 ;t' '1 \\Ill trtJ ... \\tTitt·tHi ht· liiL':-t•ntL·d lul ·:-' 'f*ltfli'/\N·.')[);tl~N{,r\ 1 :~ t.:lt1tT l·• Jn.a\l..:UI:,tt' n ('[·t-=· Et~ 1 nua.tHttl 111 l'luon·:-. llllll'll't..'ll liatei-I' . ,Jtolf;~ tl••\-to~dlt Vun t t·Lt4oti.~h :t :i:o J:~- nith•.--. (iOAt\ j . ..;u:.dut· J>lau. <Hnndlllr! 111 <.n att· !Jt·tiitltt..· lllttatl<Jil plan;-; ha\'t' ltut 1 n(·tttltt'llPllt BI.Hit' tt.::-- ;_,t1•·111 1 •••na~ tH.:l'll ll'\'l'al~d but tt 1::, l'XJ>cctcd, 1 Jait· li 1 'u -•· t·~ t l.t.~ ... 1'' t J.:.·n ~ \\'lfl th~tt a ;:iJ~t> nurnht•I o1 aluruni aud; ! tP1t[n1 l' })a\\. n;dlu_nal 1Iatl'l'l111J' utJicJab Wlll Ll' 1 :~n Jll:••lllt:~tl di t'U .... -l••lt ,,f tL,· t!• utl t!tt· l'i.lill!lU:-. to wltnl':-.'\ the Hl- .~ulatlt't' p!an to.d{ pla('t• :tt ''lll• 1'1 ~~ul'tlun ul the lll'\\' ntunht·t·:--;. 1 Tht• aho\P ta-hlPt j~o, ''IUll(•ddPd , t\\t) 111 tltt· t·I...:Lt :--t'llloi:-- int i1•·: lit·'-l The u~u.d llt·ll \\'t•t·k lHLHlk~ ha\L'j that t-ht·y \vould 1w willin~ ;_(· ta-l\t' IJtTn taktiJ,.; pl<.H:e blllt't• :\lunda~ in tlw floor uf C\l•·m\lial ( haJ•t•l . \lit lift· m.-utan• ,. P\itt·w~ ..r H ·\\<' ltlulllll1g, and \\'<·1<' in lull ;Wil1g by lwfot\t' tlw <'hllllt'l'l 't't'!''· ! <'.ll'h llilil a l''\''''i\n tlat tlt· .. ,,:. l'lll'.!-oda)- \\!.en twu nt:uphytc~ 111 1 : ;(',._t' tn·,·J\'t' tu:-:t divt<lt•JHL· l)n tlla t t 1 1- amnuut up t11 $10fl :1:- a gift fJ:t,lti ·;,~:~~~:\~; ~~ 1 ~11~ 11 1Io~u~ ~~l~~e w:n~ I Fifteen Fraternities till' d;h. LE\\.'1:0. SEBltl!\G, Jr. I Degree Granted L. B. Sl'hring·, Jr. Receives :\laster ol' L.('( ters .\\an! Flt•'!.t:.·. F1·h :2~~ \ 1 • : ··•., d· .l• ~:<ll ,,r .1 lli:lll,}, Lt.~·l·f •., '; .• .,r ~ • ·! I,::' k I~~ •!1.• . 1 •. l ·, .. , .. It ; .... :t' l~ .I.- fli! If !OJJl_. -11 I ' b i I~ 11 d :. \\ J' !. I' st. I ' l . ' .... ('L;q .. l. i ·, t~ I , j llt'!ll [', i- .\ •tl·.•· \l .j;\··r- .. : T,,_,~,.-_~t• '11 .. 1 b,t· :: .ftll tl ill ! '.t ~~ l! .. lll,ft· \\,~­ t]_t g:tt .. :· 1.1'\\'i.~ }:t k ~t·h: Ill...:,·~~~. .. ul !JJ. ... _ ..... n Lt·\\:- t ; •.. k =-'· h1111-:.. .ft. ·~3. }J, t:; (:Jlt····· ,:,'-('t··~·d:11lf ... ()~· !~urn• \·:~ T:.t· ~ ~l·l·!. ,. :.11 f. 1:-. , :L- h···J,:,,;l 111 tLt· tJt,.,r t)f tl.·· .. L;q.t·i lu•ftl)t• !·h• .-tt•jt.- 11!' tf.•-• th,1J,tt•l. \\ \'\' prt·-t·ntt·d ~~· ~~.t· ('•llt.:.t a.:· ll_ \\It:1 ,,fi:f·l \,t:uahi, I:••llt\.n IL· n,•IJ.t- , hil1:1. ilt• ludtn~ t!.1..' l~· :u.t·\.H f:tudl\' · J·!ihle. · · ~!Jl'l1l the ni~ht in the city ja.il. Tlu~ ot'ht·t· :--t•nHH::i pt t.• . ...:t·nt ap- 1 The lt~t ut candidu.tccl fur lllitia- Will Sponsor Ball Jlll>Vl'tl of tIll' method fol 1 :d>'in~ I nun fulloll'cl; the fund and withheld d<Cci;,;iu~i ilil. WILI.I.'\;11 11. s. UE:H:ua:~T i T!w ptit\·ii'tl addzo-.- of tlw n'ZL'- -------------~ ----- - ---- 1 Jllt•ny \\.·<, .. ..;; dt..·livt·!\l·d t.v Dz \\.illi:un H. S DPnl~Ul'-\'t. Ptl':-l;!t·nt Enu·ritu . ...: of Tiutg-c·r.- Cniv•·t,t1r. wL, dl'- ocrihP<I the part ph r.)·rd by tIll' r>utch in the rnakin~ of tl~c n:t~iun. Alpha Delta Phi ---- tt·tn}HJI a lily, \\rriting- ftu·1l,ei l\nowl· 1 Offiel't'>': Juhn S. Wuld, '3x. Sche- l•'iflc•en fratemitie~ have. pledged t•dgc> of tl!e !>Ian. 1 _, •• 1 t p t 'I' thetr support to the fu:'t All- \<'IUI<'ll 'I>Ilt'O'<'~ 1'1 tl, · n<'ctauy, pteo;tuPn ; re8 on . , , . , . . . . . , , . , v ' ·\\ • -~ 1 • 1 Pr(•siclent and .liJ·s. Fox 1 Jl\ill Entertain Faculty c ' • • . . · newlY f<>t med Interfwtel nity Coun- President and :O.hs. Dixon 1{. eel '31> Hat t.ouale vtce-pleoident IF td.t< tntt~ Ball \pon;;utcd b) the St utlL•nt-Cllultlinatur \Villiam \1/.1 Canutdateo for lmltatton: Fresh- ell to bP held ftom [() to 3 00 Bennett who was pte~cnt it\ 111<:1 Rran Fox will be hosts at tl.e Illen John P. Bmmgc,l, J?ou~la~-lo'rlork m tht• Alumm Uyrn on the nll'l'llng ga\'t' 111 \ .appt·u:·nl of tht, annual teceptiun fur the mem- ton, L. l.; David \\, Fatrlteld, annual Intctftatetnitv Ntght on ptogzam and as,;tsted tn sue:ge,;- bet;; of the facultv and their \\'uoti8tock, Cunn.; Rtchatd Htl- :>.latch lX, accotdmg' 10 an an- tzons lut ~··ttmg tht• lund oecutd.:,! Wlt'c·s tu bP held at\ Hale Houoe dl eth •. Herktmet, N. y.; Clarence ~· nounc-eme.n t made recently by I ~tat \Pel. 'I lw \\nlot·,; !~tesen t wet e: tht.; evening at 10 o'clock. :\lt s. MeCum, Boont~n, N.J.; Albert N. John Not!, . 3 ~. ehailman of tlwl Day, H. Lauze.nc: .Aclnlles, Hyrnalll Jan 1 es \Vatt :.\lavor, :0.1Jo;. McCartney, \\ ashington, D. C. dancl' rommittl'e A. Enzel'. \\ tlltam II. Hmdte:;,' Charles F. F. Gat is, :\lrs. John Sophomore,; Jay P. Dayton, Point ' · Frc'uct ielt B. Hawley, Joseph Pau I,: B1eeze, Kenl, N.Y. Junt01'8 -Rich- Till' dcc·otatiun,; will fullo\v n l'atl R. Ttahman and Juhn :::;,• Bellan 1 y Tnylur, and :\lr.s. :ctd G. Day, Schenectady. ~arnet and whitc colut schell!~·. \\'old. Harold B. Aeketman, ntenl- Chnrle.s :=-:. \\\aldton will p1esidc ·with ~l!t>an1e1~ of C'tcpe papt.~r 1 [ 1 t. at the tea and coffee tables. CW Psi Jt'l' 0 t w seniul .,oat d of tlw .\:itu- ,\. featut-e ,,f the 1 ec·C'ption will fm rnin~ n cano}J~· over the tloo1· of d nt C un il u bl t U Officers: President, Ed,;on V. 8. the .,,.n 1 na>'iurn. This ,~·ill set\'e to e 0 e ' lt·a,; na e u e be the showin!!,' of ,;evetal reels C r-, IJI e~t·nt. Draper, '38, Rocky Mount, N. .; ubli\t'rate tht> l<l!!.'hl of till' uppt>t On tlw 1 t•cumnzendalit>n o! of motion pictures of \An Odys- '-'lc\-ptesidcnt Frederick B. Haw- fluor and tlu· toof of th<' huildin~ .. !Iawl< .. .- t lte ><'lltuts uel'id<•d tlt.a\ a ::<e)' Ct'ui\'e of the Ac~ean Sen\ le\ '3il, Bndgepott, Conn.; Treas- I h 1 1 '11 1 tl 1iln:1ed by \ \'altn C. Baker la.st , ,ow ung- an etno WI suppy H' publk JHesentaLion of the plan be ~unJmet on a Eur·opeall tii'p Ute!', Douglas C. Murphy, '39, Pas- nrcc•~;o,al '·' lico:lltin•· for the tlnr.<\l' n 1 • 1 1 11 x.t ,,. ]{ 1' 1 1 t'l bl ~ saic, N. Y. ·, Sectetary, Donald Ford, I \' ~· \' '' '\ ,. • ,.,. 1 'a. Y as~•·nl Y wh1ch he made ·with Dr. and I tlour. Gate.''' at !'ithet end of the by Pt<'--'iclc·nt Llay, and that a qu .. .,- '3~. Albany, N.Y. I flllot will gin• c•nttancP to the dane- tiunnaiiP be di~ttibutedat the~atne' :0.11':,;. Fox. :\Its. \Valle! C. Baket· Candidates for Initia·tiun: Fresh- in..; opUL\l'. The ~itk wall, at·c to be tmw '\ all ,.•nims to detetntin,,t will be pre:;ent at the teception men--Roger D. :C.larshall, Ro81yn • llllt>d with boot it..< of the 'l.'al·ious f I with her husband. The film~ will H . ht J E T . . Jt· 1\\' \\c·ll the plan icl undetst<md. be •'hOII'n l-11 the Old Cl1apel a.t erg S, ames · Wtntng, '' ltoUsl'!', fouttt•en of wlllth han• al- \eco•Jtn • t th(' ·u gn tel Ridgewood, N. J.; R. Gordon .Mur- ' ' t-; 0 ~ g ' 8 1 pto- 9 o'clock bl'fore the tec£>ption h I > . N J H d 0 teady c•>ntl.teted fut· tht> ne\~~aty ,.:tam \:u·h polic~-holdl't would ptuper takes place. The'· depict Mutt, Schenectady; John C. Gui- TickPt ..- fot· 1 h<' dance :n ,. $3 no pulley. The fu, t ac-cumulntl'tl dil·i manr of the scen!'s of the fabled p y, assatc, ~ .. ; owar · ,,pnc•·. mak•· an mve;tmnl't in a $1.{t0() lifr I \' hcrt, Jr., Baldwin, N. Y.; Geor!!.'e and an• \n ..-ah· at 1'' PoPnt at tht· I dt•nd,;, up tu ~1110 wnuld be tu tneil l.:ly;se:;· adventures as related W. Norris, Jr., Little Falls, N. Y.; ]{ \1 1 I 1 Tl l ' 1 in Homet',; epic :.\lr. Baker has appn ' p za ·\'~e. ~e ll'<'t' ~ <H' I uwt· tu the t ulkge in U}J]lt oximutel) · J.ame~ J. ){eough. Springfield, tote tltf' tlan<t• th•· J>llr<' \Ill! hl' 17 yt',ttc Tltl' otiginal itnc·,tntc·nll captUtt>t! mu.l'h o~ the_gla~wur Mas>'.; William J. Hartt, Spring- tai-t>d 1 ., $ltlfl 1 1 , 111 _ . 11 othc·t 1 .. d, 1 ,. f . 1 -·I ot n. f~t dt:ota.nt paot ll1 hi~ mo- l . ld '! s h mor\ \\J'll!'an1 P . . . , · u ' 1 '' en.- a 1 't t w.' 1 tton ptctut·e\ w!uc11 at·e a ,.i,·t··· 1r , •• nos. op 0 \ ' • Tht' mu\'\ \\Ill bt• J!lUittlt·tl by' ,.:ll't'll to thl.! colic•\<' \~uuld trrnain ·' ~~ 1 . 1 u I~ .. iJkin North Trov b I tenunuer u us trave ~ , ,. thl' l!ti<l\un-Pd Ot<ltP.·Ita tht' Jlllljll'tty uf the intlil'ttlual. In ------- · nelta Chi which playC'd nt the Skidmot<'l ca-e of ,l!•ath bt>fote $100 fla:; a~ Jl .. aux ,\,to n:tll la\t ~alia dny. 1 cumulat.t-d, tl1c· ctlllt·~e would t c·· L. Sebring, Jr., Active OHicers: Howatd C. Van Keuren, '39. Nanowsbui'g, ptcsiuent; Joseph C. Clifford, '39, Glover,vJile, vice- president; Paul D. Mahoney, '·10, Schenectady, secretary; and E. Sheridan, '·10, \Ve::;tport, Conn. 'Th<'j at<' wl'll lrnuwn for thcu I ccive it, full .. ift ant! the uthet 1· J · - - ·1· < • L\ Jd ,,, iginal >on,: hits and for their ar- beneficial it-~ !h~ir full ~haiL! of thr 11 OUl'lla ISLIC .l' Ie tangl'm~·nt>'. rest of tlw puliey. _________ ---------- LPwi::; B. SPbt·ing, J1 .. joint Jonol Campus Sees Usual Unusual Prank!3 of I Ill' Ht >UH·yn men:o1 ial and tu- U.ay· ~ 1 t>l'lfdt>nt uf Cniun's hono1 at y clt·~t ee of ;<.[a~ter uf Let!t-t ~. hac 1 b<'l'i\l charal'ti.!l ized u Ut ing his ca- Press Final Action On Functional Plan SfAhrin~ Talli~ <Hl HunH ... ~·n --- Lf\wis Sebring- Jr. al:\o f'pckt-. and Committee Chosen to Consider I :2;:-ll'e an a~·ount of the !iff' of , . • R•m1ryn, hts g!'e:J. t, .:r·ea t, ~r~at Remauung Art.Icles :.: tantlfnthet' aft~! >\I! irh l.P\\'i:' \\'. Of . Co ·t\t tio Halll'nbeC'I,, '·10, a wlh t<'l·al dl'~('pncl- n:s 1 U 11 ant of Romeyn unveiled the tablet. A >llrJH i>'c which fp:JturNl the t'X.- . . . , ., . . . <'I'Pi>'e.~ wa..~ the ~r.t.ntin::; of the \\ cdnc:otla~ •. Feb. _3 -A con~nllttee I hc•noln IV degTeP of rna,;tpr of il't- of tht ee . senwr:; anti' tWO JUniOt:o It''~'\' in Union Collt ere 'to :.1-!r. s~b ·i ·~ was appomted by the ~tudcnt Luun- Jl· Tlln cand' 1 t ~.. t, n~ ·1 · · · .._ lC a P \\·l~ pll' ... PntPu to ct totught to pt ess !mal aC\twn on Dt·. Fox bv \Va lte r c. Ba kez. 'Vi the propos~d fmm uf funct,wnal t zu,;tl'e of the col leu~ , d ll. J . 1 • teprescntatwn. H~·man A. Bnzer . _ . ,... • nn z. c m \Vtlliam H. Hawkeo, H. Luul'Cn~d I.' .:\.!~Ich. as sentol· pr·of\-'\''' of tl:l: \chiile. Jr ~cnior.. Dal'ld L 'ollegc,. plar<'tl the .-ymb .. llc hntllt .1: • ti, ·• \\' . ::;, . • • on Sl 1 hrtng'.s shoulder-:-: Yumch. and Davtd B. ::.!tiler,. JUn- In lib atldrp~,- Dr·. D•·m'n <'>t l'ited wr:, w1ll con~tdet the remaJlllll~ the role plaved bY tL • n tc·l· · 11 articles of the conl<ttt utwno sub- 1 . • . · · ' 11 • lll 1 e nutted la>t fall by Vilmar K. Bo~e. ro nnlz.ttton of ,\m•·flca. .. ''nd ttacc·d 'SS. il.e tlt~\t'~tl)Hll('Ht pf f:l.L~Il lntltH·llCP on Amcncan cultm e Ex.cet pts ftom l1i~ ~}leech follow: At the same meeting after con- ;idet·atiuu of in~tituling an honor syotcm for exan1ination8, the com- 1lilittce compo;;cd of Hat olc.l B. .\.cket mu.n, '3lS, and Thomas H. I nal,tun, '40, r ecommenued that fuc- ! ulty pwdotmg at cxaminat:uns uc . made mote sttict. Thi:; recollllllllll- ! tlatiun \\'ill be ~l'nt to the at!ntini:o- 1 tr<.~ttuu. ,\n honor .,y:;tem was con- duet ed not f eaclible bccau:;e of the l:.z.ck uf tr~dition •o e;;:;ential to ,uch a :;y;tem. Tonight ttw Council tentativtly 1 cundutlet! the mo~t im!Jmlant patt,; I of the \econd title of the constitu- . tion, after l!avtn;; made signiltcant I cbm~L'o in the clllgge,;ted methud uf ele(\twns to the council. Tbe l'wpoo;l'd Form \Tuday in thi:-: I,IC\.it'tll'l' our a.t- tt'ntion tut ns to on<f:l uf tht• fe\\.' ~·ll'Iut•nt . ...: that \Vt·I t: v.tally l'I t':-.t.•nt rn tht~ \\t'l~· f'az ly da.y.~ of tltt• na- t iona.l lifl•. n1aki1~~ !ari:ll L·ont 1 ibu- tinn tu lht· dt'\L·l'-~pilll!. aud now t:i~h!y dl'\'l'!-Jped. lOnl tl!Ol.lWt alth.\ Th,. influcnc·e u[ lh•• I >utd1 i~ :--:t•t·n in our h3.-..;ic 1·~ d1tha! i:1.~t1tu~ tion:-:. In the Con ..... ti tutwn \an ht• f.,und t!lt• }JtincqJlt..· a;ad }lith tdll!t· <>f tht• Dut<·h uati,.z,al iif•. The l'il- ;....!rinl:; at Plyntout h. ·\rhtJ \\ t·r t• Lll d, ..... ·,•Iop intn X<·'I.V En~land. the !lt \t l>,l<\khnnp of tht• nat i1•n, had t'il!lll' from a Jlf'l iod of i lfr .. 111 I-foi!nnd . Buteh Sto!tlt-cl l!i2l Candidate,; for Initiation: Fresh- men-Burton R. Payne, Hamden, Conn. Sophomores -- Richard D. Hearns, Fonda; Louis W. Hallen- beck, Hoffmans. D€'1ta l'l1i As F. -rnshmen suc.eer z\n HU ll Jil: k\' Jl'l'l' in t!H· puhliratinn,; \\'otltl hy I 'V . . . Ill .Ll€ P' ee a mn~tant intete~t in hid wot'lc, hi; <1.----------------- t·oi!Pgc·, und hi~ fotebeatet~. Ao proposed about 40 student,; By C. RUH1>ELL DI\YO I SL•brint-; 11·~\ llut n in SeheneeUl<l)· would serve o.n the council, elected . Th£> Dutch had t h as~et of pt ior- ''Y· betng .<t'\tl•'d f• >I ttading by 1hl !_ and for home life by 1li24. llHlJJ· far-lt'H<'hing pattunn ~v:--;tPnl <'lit tt·nclwd tlwi1 c1r1tur~. Iiut it wa..., not {'tJl1finPtl t11 .:-.;P\\' En~land, 1Jut. t•Xft·t~dt'd to :\t•w Jet.se~·. Thu~~. tht.\ll' }'llutity Wa!-> in a location tl.Iat \\~:1...; ~tJa1Pt-:it' fot t-hf' l\XIHl.ll- .-1011 of the nt>\V L'ounti y. in a ~ec­ tlon tl::tt Ill>\\' b tbt· .·il.e of the• na- titln':-:: lllP1J t•poli.-.. It \\a:;-; l'.\Pt·tialh· :--tt·atE..•gic in bdng ht•l\\'t'\.lH th.L' not tlH•t n ~pit it uf ::\t.>\\' r.:nj...;l.t.nti :1.nd tlw •-outhl'lll ~pLut uf \'it~inia. Dfl'Icl'r~. George Doyle, '3X, Co- hue~. presidl'nl; DeWitt Btown, '38, J\lbany, vice-president; Euwatd .M. Hafnm·, '40, B1 oaklyn, secretary; Gem gc Doyle, ttcasutet·. Candidates for Initiation: Fresh- men- -Honalc.l Ostrander, Schenec- tady; Hichard S. Crellin, Chatham; Gordon H. Parlrcr, .Madioon, Wis.; Edwin W. Scantlebury, Schenec- tady; Walter E. Plummer, Albany; <lcorge W. Hems ted, II., Alba.ny; William H. Walker, Lynbrook; William F. Walkel', Springfield, Mass. Sophumored-Ro bert Rod- well, Schenectady. Delta Upsilon Officers: Willard W. Dean, '38, Glens Falls, president; John H. Gil- mour, '38, Oak Park, Ill.. vice-presi- dent; H. Wyman Hitchcoclt, '39, Cambddge, N. Y., Treasurer; Paul H. Teare, '38, Cleveland, Ohio, secre- tary. Candidat~s for Initiation: Fresh- men: Edward R. Bartlett, Ogdens- burg; Robert B. Cor·by, Englewood, N. J.; Eugene A. Fink, Schenec- tady: Stanley B. Hill, Westfield, N. J.; Paul V. Mara, Beacon, N.Y.; <Conlinued on Page 6) Hell week, that much maligned ensconced in the folds of a large January 20. 1901. P1 epat ing in the from thtee different group,;: clas,; period of collee;e life, bting,; many I handkercltiE'f. (JUblic ;ehnols hell', he att~ntlc:l I officer,;, the four cla.<scs and the mtl'testing- not to ,;ay amu,in, \Vp quote ftom a \DisH'l't ation Cniun, gt aduatiltg in 1923. News-\ ,-tuuent acliviti~o. ~Jresidcnt of ,_ight...,, before the obioetvunt eye of on Love'\ wtitten tee•·ntly b~- one pap<.'!' wutk fir..-l >Ptiou,.ly tun]{ hb · rla~sl'e would nutomnt1rnlly be elect- the undelgradua.te. Autographed I of the unhappy initiates: \;:>.ly attention during hi\ lll>'t th1ce I ed, 25 stude~Jts:at-lnrpc w1ht 11 \\n- egg8, sult,; on bach wan!. lly-ealch-l fril'tHl,;, love 18 that \tate of t-;11- I yt•al·,.. in cullt•ge when he lwltl a 101·~. i:'even )umors, ftve sophomo1es rr;;, and mutes atl' unly\ ft'W of I ptemc and inflnite bliss in vv'lti<h 1 ~t>IW!al l<'i\''tt•t>hip on tlw Helw- a.nd two fn..-hm.C'n would be ch'cted the unu:;ual oight~ ob;l'JI'ed h<'te one i~ lJopele~ .. ly lo>'t when the :11- tw!'iady Gazl\l-tl' a~ wl'll a,.; a po~i- hy each class wtth equal balance for duling the la:;t week. tra.ction to. and the affel'tion fot· t.ioa \n tll•· ~t:dT of the CnncnrdiPn-; f1ate1 nity and non-fra.tei nity mrn, Two Phi Sigllla Dt•lt>t ]'ledges \Lne of the oppo~itc 'ex bccon1t,; , 0 1 ,i~ \[ whith ht• wa,- m: •. na.t-:ing edi- ancl 11 l'<'Ptf'srntnt.ive,< ftom every were sent nut la,.;t Sunday t\ catch great that one cares to prolong thi~ i tm in hi:; senic11· y.•ar. I tax-t'uppot·ted activity. a few l!tecl. ~hey ,.tarted ou~ a.ctu>'o mi..-.et able 1 ife no longer, un!E:-,s it 1: 1\'11 ;.; \\_ltt:t t i .. u S•·ht i_ng ht•ca nH' The! e wuuld be no man ho:.Jinl,; the Scotia brttlge, snour,mg ut l'l'ety I be tn tl~e con;;tanl n~atne.-s uf tl!J.ll 'lfflli tt•·<l 11 tth tlt;• .\'<'<O<'talPd I:rt''\\ n~orl' than unc office on the coun- possiblc ,;pot. ~ few !touts lalct <kar Ltg!tt of Heaven anll Eat·th. 1 1\'ht•te, by a '\\\\ '.'~ ptom.otH•ns, <'ll. A sm~llL'r group for .-ittit;g in they called then· [t,ttctmty house the chenshed <•nc. One f~cl.- tlnl hc· a<l\'atH·•·d ftom ftllng l'dttor at between tune~ that the Ltt ·er \roup ft·om the jail. to be away ft om the sacr~tl pt·e,- ,\Jbany to n political tcputtcr in met would be chosen fto~n the 40 A bewildered loolting Kappa enc-e of ~his ;<ltining Goude;\ is lc> t hl' :..; cw Y < >1 k nffict•. In :-.lay 1 !l$ t·cpresentatives. A detnilctl rcpurt Sigma pledge wa\ ,een on the cam- be> ca\t tnto the bottomlcs:; depth,; h•· tc-mpuzanly left the IH\\\ !o nd wtll be mwle by the cummittee at pus last Monday canying a large of H,.JI~! VVhile to be with ltet· is to a..- <>fficl' matHlg<'t' of the Associa- the meeting of the council a. Wl'L'k alarm clock, up~ide down. Il seemB be fai\ed up to. and ewn abo\•e, the tion of Life Inguranc(' PrP\idPnt:-; fr·o mnext V\'cdnestlay. that this wa.s a sort of pmance for mo~t glozioue pinnacles of He:u·en~! 1 in ~''W Yot k City, but a year nnd not waking the active brot·hers at Oh. what joy; what bll,;s; ~·hat rap- a half b lt'I' joitH•d the New Yotk G o'clock every morning. ture\; wha-t ecstasy; her- ten <ler Iln aid T t ibutw whet\ he hru:; since Ft eshmen rush this wny and that caresses bring! And what SDll'0\1': tc'tl1aint•t!. bent on all impmtnnt rnls~ions, what despair; what anguish it Is \'\'it h tl!P Tt ibune Sc>ht ing has their btuws cteasetl with wotried to be without hl't! LO\'E:, my :'cn···d fir;! H>' a lP!I!H!t•t a\\ignrd [t·owns. Tue;o;day night n. Phi Sig-ma friends. is the ~upteml', the ulti- nto:'lly to \i!y atlministration, frOI\i Delta pledge made a round of all mate hnppinc~s that any rnan can· D•·<·<·nzh•·r. H•30 to Jutw, 1fl3:i a>' the fratctnitic8, be,;ceching the !mow, and no one on wl1otl:1 thi\' 1 a--:istant night city editot, nnd head of each hou.sc to autograph an grea-t bleosing has not befallen ha,;l ~in<·•· tht• lat1<·t· <lalt· no full ni~l1t egg which he reverently revealed known what it is to live!\ city editor. To Play Pit'ce Symphonique The wml{S of Sigft·ied Karg- Elert and thP Grand Piece Svnt- phoniquc of Caesar Fmnck wili be featUtl'll in the Sunday afternoon organ tecital this wcelt accotding to an announcement from D1. El- mer Tidm!l;rsh. .Tilt> Dutch catr ied with tht'lll a }•Inn~ t.'l' ~pit it fiOU.l..t .. land u1 d.d\l'll- ftllP filld !lt.'\\' lJIUjtt:t.-., the ill:-.ill\t t ~:r t'nulf', and n zut I fot tht· idrHl. Thl'Y \\'t'l t' \Vl•ll-itlft llllll'll il.Bd t lit'\' \\'Pte \\'t'll-fixetl in i dl'as of t 1 llth:;~~ tion.\ The <'ontttllln :'-diutll t hl'I t' wa~ in n.dvann· ut' t bt· l otninun ,!'}tool anywhl'tt' ,.},.•. Tlt,·v l!a.,I their inf!u .. nc~ in t lJ.. fuun,iitz·· uf 1-(in~':;-;, now Cnluullda, and t liP -.L'ol- lPt!P of ~ll\\' Jt\t.~l',V, now Pt illLt'h)n, \hut t ly ~lftt•r ~Ut'l'r:l.::l Collt\}gl't ll!)\V R ut.ger>'. and ot ill a little later l'nlon C'ol!0;;P. ~Ir. SPbt ing·~ ,Lt.'rotmt uf I~l•lllt}\'ll r(>pre~en1:o~ oVPI. a ~l':tt'~ lt':-t};\l\l_·h \in an cffott to un.- .. ._ot th,· ,u,un- gui:-\ht•tl 1 ecor d of tlt.b pt C\'hHJ:-1\' unpublieiZPtl fath<'l of till' l'Ollegc\ (Continued on Page 3J ·

FOUNDED 1877 \A C11:usa PtrJa Parole lls.rai\ 19~7 Membn 1938 J::bs.ociafed CoUee>irne Press Dwribu tor of Colle~iate Dieest National Advertising Service, lnc. ( 'o/l~go P11bltshors Rt>Proseutc~tws 420 MADISON AvE.. NEw YORK, N. Y CHKII.GO- bU::.Iufi- ·LvbAI'tv• .. t.~ • :_,.o,:. FrtA~o.: ••• 'I:ro• ,r;::al fl·····i•aj·~~- •f 'he !-'ltlld\n'~ pf llui•••· ,:,.q.g,· t'uh]ro;;lrtd 'l'n•·'\\ll:t\ and lt,rldays lllltHigJt· ol_l t l tH~ t'OIIt•gt:~ .J't',Lr, t:Ut'Pl du1111g ~lill~lll+~.l\' ~~t.tl :O,i)I'i.l~ I t.:t-e .. :--L'\'· --- ---~-- - hitJllt·ath•n (lfhct', Tnt <;a~l'ttc Plt·ss, 3J4 ~tate:~·. ~tlll_•Lt~~ l~t!_:'_,_!_~-~--'_}'d~.:!JIIV!ot.' 4 _:0_1] __ l·:t ft. I t•d a\ tlw :::;, ~~~·llt.'l tady i'U~{ llflh t• 11:- :->· \l·<l L·J,t~~ .\i.l&l ).luttcl - - - ------- '-qh-~·r·!•' IIH pr·l't' 'l•\j\'1;' q•Jtl:-1 a CUI+.\. $J.UU il ,\t.tl. L:o·ll~t![t.'.( ,lli!> \\'lit'lt' Ill ll1~ l Jl,Jt.d ~i~lll.·. l·>lt•otial H•om~. ~t:Jiru;tn lli.lll, t:uwu l'oll• gt- l'.LIIIfHJ~. Tt.•.t:pll•lllt'~-~_:~~t~~lil), .J u_luu Benior Board ·Hyman A Enzer ............... Editor-in-Chief II~:-; S··uth l'ollt·ht' t,;-:•1:.:~ !(••l><••l II Fc1 ,;u,;on ......... Managing Editor 1'·: Up~i1tJII ll••U~•· -1-Xi Ju J ullll' J Bundgus ................ News Editor :t ~ :;, :::)olllll \\dLt·bL to-~~, .. ~ lietliY D Hartmann .......... !:'cat Ul e Editor , l I. ( ~ l t l'atl H TratJtwt.n ........ Sports Editor 1<\.:tpt<t s.gtl<<i. lluu:-.t. -1-~J..:~ J llllll I! titlmour. .. ...... Business Manager l•t!ta l'p~ilt!lt HotJ:--• -1-l~t~;! :\lal\ill !\! ~It ller .. Asso~iate Bustness Manager h·tp:n Xu-- 4'-7:;31 /\lfl<'d I! S•igiP. . . . ... Circulation Manager h.tJI!'<t :\u- ·1-7..;31 J Wlior Buat·d '\.:-:1~· H._L\'1 L 1-..lJl'l'l. ... llU::i Ftc(.h.'rllk \\'. llcUUt::IHLuu.Jt; li, V~yJ.,.tll li.tt..'l•lUl..!~ 1 ~~.<lhl:.. ,\.. .:; ... ,:· :\1 ...... ! • :. Jt,;JUiloC S!Lill.\J }~ l\'1.:J.IJ ~- H• tat~jk It -Uert l'. \\\al~•·r . .I r Al:tu C \\'r;tii:t Sophomure Board 4.. 'bT j,[l•t<ll•: c'.ll!llrt.td'-. t' H11~:--t·ll Dt·\n, l:obc·rt l·>·n·r. < ·hri .. t••l'ht•r 1-':ti!Y. \\';,dttT Fallon, Ed\\.Utl ;\. i-'1U·! .Jr., :-;tallL'I~ litllZ, .\lt~t·t·l ll. ll.t.Lt\.11, l it·•llf..;~ L. !'cd\- La\\l'(•JH...c \'·. l'ell~~ter, Jr. Freshman Board l'.tlll \\' HPd~t'l' John Hl!tll:nger, 1 la.vhl l 1 'ait·Ucld. 1 lutl:.tlc..l• Uatgn · \\ lilt am 11 uUll,Jltllt:::i, J vl11, L ... '-.'> ,,., ht::Illleth )lad\.~·u:t!.l~ 7 .Jultll l'llllH.J~. ~lurlimcJ lt•Jhiu~. ltuLt.:l t ::;. hullJt:rg, L:.i:::l..:~r Sdn' :ntt.. .l.llllf't-i E. Twiuing, J;uile$ Cllmau. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1938 We have just cattse to be proud of our Dutch an<'estor~ anr1 p!\Ot:ld of our monu- ment~ to them, but we who are to sustaiu the college, will we be .proud of ourselves? '[I ================;;;;;..J\ 1 Foun~:~ D~~~s:~e.~~~e House :N 0 TAR Y PuB L I ( 'will be given a comparativ<> respite today. It is like a breath of fresh air to DR. SHINGLE TlH• \\'ide recognition which Charles Co- burn ha~ !Jepn reCE>iving for his performance in his first motion picture, \Of Human· Ht>:1rts,\ :1rkls 11ew si?,·nifiC'a.nce to thl' tonan who i~ heatl of une uf l;uion's must f<.Lmous itt::-.litutiun:', The :.\lnh:nd Pr:1ma FP\tivnl. liP tnakE'~ his debut in hb picture this week- I.' JHl :n Sdu.!Hcdadr l>efun·e aud iencP~ w h() han\ ~'0011 him ravnt·t 0n the outrlom· :-;tag:t> uf t!Je lil WllU .f~sLi \ al fur the past three SUID- llll'I'S. Many adjectives have been used I ple ~~-eds reveals tha.t intelligence, tmn to the subject of the twb cam- to desciibe our first attempts. We ~mbttwn and .personallty and mora.!- ·pus liteta:ry magazines. The Idol expect anything shott of assa.ssina- tty are more unpm tant than n:ovte has at last been galvanized into a\)- tion remembering the adage, \The sta·r looks . · · One group swd a 'Uon. The last issue wasn't ei<.c<>I- Trut h Hurts.\ From among the man must \never neve! get drunk.\: lent except in· forznat. but ·at least missiles showei,ed upon us from be- ... Union wil} lose a good one if: is .:Va.sn't static. \The Spring and hind tree:s. ftum dark alleys, from \'Buck' J.\lanheun leaves next year-: Summe1 issues shc.>uld be worth no- the anonymity of a c1owd-let us .Danton is working on a new bookee,: tieing, if the pt,esent rate of im- examine one bullet: ·Our motive for a textee . . . Stfrlen Packard or-'. provement is maintained. As· for w 11 ung tht,; eulumn ha~ been \'it· -plw.llctl. behind \\'ashburn adopted· the Idle Interval there is ra tht•r 11 i~ plans ftll\ the fe\'ti\al antl ib In~tilute or the Tlwat l'l' are alnw1y heing fol'mulated t'or till' foUI\Lh ,.;utstHI thi,.; summer. He wiH Jdnrn aftt'I\ finishit:g his ~<'cnnrl pirturP. llD\1 111 progress at the RKO .studio;:;, BOOK REVIEW Til<' Fnlldon• nf Cai•ltulbm, hy Thut•man Arnold F1r:~/\ rHmd ... \\lth tlw•nt 1-~~n~ut>:--. h:tzv thought:-- ttnJ •• t :--lh ;-tt t icul:dt>d. loo::--t' diC::!-l\L ticns pal ~uling a~ •·f-act- ual. -logical a na.lvses.\ half truth, :;mugly used a,; vai·IU v.·olluug- I;I.:nu~t!:>, -t~nuranl'e hidtnb behmJ ·hH·trm:tiiv tntl'liJit.•tatHJn~. ptdt..•ntil•U~ ~tufftnt·~s con-· ru~l'( I \\ t1 h aut hoi ny. (Jt..'t ~t~nal foi.Lic~. feud~. frar.:->, t t••nz~>·\· a.ntl phant.a~ie:s inotitutiunalized into creeds :tnd· t;u t h ...... bd..:;Ll.l'd litPICilY uton~tt:l~ legalizt•d a~ ''rH'\\. wutuh.~ .. ttlese and n.ure ail' the .chatactetl~tics of out J>rof~ss!<lllal \mteilectualo:;\ and the putiition6 the;y · dPft•nd. :--<o wonde!' that TllUln•an Auwld',; Tlte Folkloit' of Capitalism ha~ been hailed \\' the !Iuly \Vnt l>y the ~enu-educa\:.etl the almost-inlditgc!lt and the \\'tshful-thmkmg Vt;,ccl utonic:; who dominate Anwnca·s llltellt>dual l-ife at the moment: 1-<ur hd t:> b one uf t11e tinc~t exatnple:s uf our con- temf.Jut ary o;huddy-nnnde<.l!le<>o. In u Leavit~· man- llt'!L\U wtseciacking ,;tyle that unly occilliionally amuties, tilt• Yale piufe;,.,uJ aftempL-i to lay bare the ruvrh, un whtdr Ameuca11 mditutions have been con- «t;ud\tl . .And he succeeJti. 1-li,; wcal'i~ome book, pro- lix anti poorly organized, and. full of the Qame solemn but purntles,; vel biage at which hiQ friend Slum t Clut~e htt::. taken pot-.shot;;, manage,; to dcmonstiat<' what so many other observers (to go ba-ck no farther til.Hn \\'tlliam James and 'ThorQtein Veblen) have puin. ted out. Myth lies at the bottom of our political al:ll\-ll anti be-h;nJ uUI political ,;tructur cs. But there i;; nothing in AI nold's thesis has not been Baid be- fore- aml said better. 1 ,. 1 .:t>d. We \'II not cJte the accu.;u-' \Nedne::;day by \he riff · · · Wm.:. more wa,;te ma.tedal in it ihRn in tton,; .. but do nut hesitate tu state Boehne! ltop N. ~· movie critic)·: the Idol, and the vituperativ<> note that uu 1 aun 1.> to 1epot t camlu.ll;y fin<.!~ the l ubum ptrllll<' gnml hut. un which C'. \Y. G. tune., hi,; p«i>lll what we dioc:uvel i:; going on· at. doesn't mention hi~ nam~ . · My. on page 16 is in atro<'ious taRt e. Union Colle~ e. T1 ue, much b.appens. my, what WaJt Buggs d1d to 1\.en But the book ha;; a flare and the ol wlueh we a.1·~ nut awat·c, ur Tomkins' car~ \\'ell, \Vnlt ~ouldn\t: ebullient Jimmy '\V:uk i,•n<l; hi>' chouse nut tu notice. Our in.tq;l'ity see; there we1e Raps ~itting all: feu.Lheiy touch to .exrellent effect. ts appreciated by The Cuncordien-· uver the blue buggy ... The H. H. If \Vaue·~ hanuball game were a ~ 1 :;, uth\rwbe out vuil!~ wuuld not: Ceases u.1c nut in Florida undc>r little bcftc1, he W<'Uiu merit o<'t i· here be heal d. Furthermo1-e, our their own power; they're being. ou:o con,;ideration as an Idol edi- d·iscletion i:; a ~ore ,;pot: \·Why at- housed by f1iends· ... Rowland to1. (See Life ·at. Union for the tack one man for :;umething while' ~~~·ers ·(French prof ousted la10led point.) anothe1 goeB uncensured?'\ we ate· year because ... ) cheated WPA a..:.ke<.I·. Th.i,; we answer by saying ranks; he is placP<i at thO\ Univer- thut rathc1· ~han indict a group we .slty of Texas. conflne our wmatks to specific per- Our fir,;t burn'll be named William ,un;,, we UI'UiJ in,;iuuatiJlg allu·: .:llulvcy ... A r~muu., arti,;t will :duns. or in evPry man's language, illwst1 ate The Vi'it's coming book we hit the nail on the head! Now, which wiU be more \doggerel\' by talte notice that a journalist'~ fir,;t Bw·ges johnson ... Union need not duty is to 1 epm t new:; no matter if wony about her colurnnisl.tl; Oxfoz d it is gaud. bad. dil ty or clean. If wa:; sued for three millionB ... 1 t ;, new:<, the pub! ic mu:;t know Prohlbile<.l !rom atten<ling classes a·bout it. .. Finally. we a1e but after Feb. 28th, Hart will have to a man and as ~uch are trying to pay a fifty cent college debt before copt· with th<> compa1·ati\'e sanity being re-a<.lmitted ... \Idle Inter- of oth••t· nwn Rho'uld wp for a val\' <Advanced Compo,;ition Self- l!lO!IlPnt \\'mme a lofty critical air Aggrandizement magazine) cost and bPcome too honc>~tly inc;ulting. about \ixty to publish; th() \Idol'\ w<> a1e reprm·ed. And why? Be- cost.:; mu 1e than twice that amount c·aus•· though ... truth hurts.\ few of ... May we editorialize to say that us a.re brave enough to bear .the we \till think tho\'e who made the puin. !The above paragtaph does \Inte1val\ .possible should have net apply to the two people who given what there were of their tal- complimented the previous column.l ents to stl cngthen the official col- Back to work; l:luggest that ap- lege quarterly. Incidentally, the plause before a chapel speaker \Idol\ cover was used on the Union speaks be omitted. Some stu<.lenL-i Calendar published and sold in '37 are greeted with a minor ovation by two students· who sold hundreds and others a great ovation. This but didn\t break even. (Purchasers seems unfair. Betiideos, many of the :>till owe them money.) ... The \prominent\ OI\\dtois of whom we Band missed a blast by omitting have never heartl. hardly ue;oerve the national anthem for their our compliments until they have trumpet recital on Washington's warranted them. If the students still birthday ... Bond and Bowie beer- want to clap after a speech, well, ing in the Plaza Theatre were re- all right . . . Before it is torn moved by ushers ... Harvard has a down, the Wfrt den may be closed squad to keep \the boys\ out of to collegians. We hope all .the fights newspapers ... February \Theatre were not over Skidmoreens • . . Arts Mag\ says no amateur actor Jail was the home last Wednesday should pay attention to his director. night for three Phi Sigma Deltas, Now, wouldn't that make Ed Car- bottled for vagrancy ... The Col- roll madder? ... Yale students call There has bee·n some talk of merging the two magazines, now that the Interval has nwre ur le~.,; pt uved Dr. John.son\i; contention that intere»l in 1\Tittng does exist at Union, if it can be ·aroused. D<!spHe the better than ex.pected sale of Idle Interval lthe firm of Rosen & Seider had accollnted for nigh 50 copies up to Wednesday afternoon) there will not 111 all probability be suffictent of what P. G. Wodehouse call,; \the ready\ ·to untl.e1 write a .second effort as ptetentious a:s the first. But dcepite In t.erval'~ gloomy proHpects. such talk i~ ;;hurt-sighted. l'he students of -thr Ad\·anced Comp. class should have printed medium for their experimental eff01ts. It .;hould be very inexpen~ive much le:;:; ambitiou,; than the present .;heel. At the ,ame tin•e, the col- lege a:; a whole should have a mag- azine of general appeal, with plenty of pictures and features. Mcrnbc1 s of the compo.sition cla~s who can w!ite popula1 _,tu·ff ;;hould submit it to the Idol. but the Paffmths, Depps. Foxes, and similar literati ~hould also have their o1vn medium. The Comp. class magazine should be as highbrow as possible. And between Class and ma.ss there should be a friendly but bitter competition. 0 0 0 Issue Editor. . Ruliert Walter Yet his lack of originality of thought or grace of style could be excused. Hi• real genius f01 irritating thh' reviewer lies elsewhere. In the first place, he explicitly attaclts certain \myths\ after making bland a;;sumptions and asserting ('With a maddening smug- ne$,-.;J historical half-truths. Then he goes beyond and imp lidtly dismisses all myths as mere \theology\ too cb\'ious for such loftv minds as his. But. and this is an important but. he ends up with no more con- ,t,uctive advice than to bless, In a series of \princi- ple,; of political dynamics\ a whole category of myths. dlffoermg ft om the myths he has desired only in that the;,· are mote attractive to Arnold. gate pastors will soon be brushed all professors, doctors, etc. Mister. out ... \Jabie detector of a news Good point.* bomb will explode it Tuesday next We we1e petitioned (by a college ... Beer was sold last summer in official) to campaign for afternoon That the intetview with the Hale House Stew in the last column struck a responsive chord is dem- onstrated by this mailed-in verse contributed by tbat ubiquitous fel- low, Anonym<>us. It is by natme of a follow up of my own pfrem: \\'. llitchcock Assistants C. Fahy Fl\iday. February 25, 1938 A. Halavin SUS'TAINING FATHERS lnion Colleg·e's founding fathers have lJeen a little overshadowed since 1785 by the persevering· individuals who had and have mHde the must significant contributions to tlte welfare of this institution. Rightly and commendably so, for, to quote from Dr. Fox's speech at Peddie two weeks ago: \It is the sustaining of standards which makes tit e co11tribution a~ important as that made by the founders of an institution and the :mccessive masters.\ H<tppily, Union has a grand past to look to, and yet that is, at times, almost unfor- t\lnate. Union has looked backward too often -like :\Iinivcr Cheevy-and has failed to cttpitalize on its future. We have depended too much upon the spontaneous growth of what is scholarly and \collegiate\ without doing much to foster :mch growth. \Ve think D1·. Fox's main argument is most approp1·iate for today's celebration, for it encourages an attitude of achievement not m the futUl'e or the past, but in the present. lt reiterates the point made by Charles \\'aldron ;;e,·er<d month~ back when he ~poke uf tlte mature accomplislunenb of past Union men while they were still undergrad- tl<ltE's. The reputation of Union College will con- tinue to grow, we hope, so long as its under- )!.'raduates realize the part they have to play in sustaining that reputation. \Ve are proud to ally ounelve;,; to Hll institution which re- ceives t·csped and even praise whenever itf; name is mentioned. It is through ~uch con- ~cientious and complete effort, exemplified hy the Lewis Sebrings in making so deserv- ing a contribution to the college, that our ;dumni rna~· continue to uphold and develop om· l'eputation. Thi$ college is the product of more than the p:tst. It is alive today only because its students and alumni are indirectly its ad- ministrators. Our accomplishments in the I\Qll tine uf college work-curricular as well a.s extra-determine its standing. E:wn this might be tolerated. After all, other bad books have been pll bli.shed, other collections of nonsense have been placed in front of the public. flu<: wrely has such a. shallow treatise been greeted with the hozannas and kwv-towing accorded The Fo!ldore of Capitalism. Hete is the depressing thought. That thiQ eBsay in nonsense should be popular with our \best minds\ show.s how wide the cult of second- !'at~·ism has spread. \The book is bad. That's Arn- old's fault. But you canl blame him that others rai.tc'e him to the rani~: of a major prophet. All you can do is vainly frot.h at the mouth in desperate ir1itation, and huny to the nearest bomb-proof shelte1 with a pious \God help us\ on your lips. F.J.M. MOTION In Our 1\>J.ail You who think y()u'I e smart, you who criticize everything you get your hands on, you who feel superiu1· to the rest .of us, you who claim the \movie- going·· public has a twelve-year-old mind I am greet- ing you in this open .Jetter to try a refutation of your ··child-like mentality\ theor·y. And so I am going to quote part.s of letters to \movie mags\ to prove my point, which is_ that che people who go to the \movies\ Iegularly are just as intelligent. and maybe more so, as you \smarties·· are. As you will see· from my quota- tions. some of. them are abo able to write excellent prose as well as ve10e. I think my little article, about .;hich I have been thinking f.or a long time, will change your mind. And so I quote: .. It's a shame Hollywood has to go to Europe for its importations and eomb the market for top-notch stor.ies for them when it has stars like Kay 1:> rancis, capable, b1illiant, charming. who are dying on the vine due to miscasting.\ ···caud.id pictu1 e.-; show us the stars as real flesh and bluuJ pcopl<: who ar~n't nlw~ys In h<>Hutiful pr.sPs and who do the same things we do in the same way we do.\ \Alas what has happened? He (Enol Flynn) used to be an egotistical rat, perhaps, but he's turned into a ·wee, sleekit' cow1in', tim'rous beastie' tmouse to youJ. 1\Ir. Fl~ nn, I slap y.ou in the face with my glove. Do you accept the challenge?\ \He may not be handsome -he may not be sweet He may not sweep any gal off her feet. But 1 laugh and I chuckle when he comes into viPw !hats Hugh Herbert 1\'itll his Woo Hoo' Vilt\lo Boo!\ \'Let. Dick Powell play more mature rolefl. He\s for- ever the shy young man.\ ··uctte Davi:; posses:;es tuo grand a sense of humor, too ~pa1llling a pers~·nality to be frittering away her C~i>ility on those \Varne1· exposes of the shady strata of life.\ \\Vhat has become of Nelson Eddy? Please put th c tall. ~lim, blond fellow with the rharming smile in another two-fisted role such as he had in his first 'tan ing picture.\ \I thinlt you're a whiz And just want to shout Each time you develop That cute little pout. :My favorite a~tless - Ju.st you alone, Silliman Hall! ... Money and bank- classes also .•. that would be put- ing Bennett ousted ten financiers. ting our necks in a noose fo-r sure. Quoting from \America's Sixty Uni<m·ers will take anythn•g but Families\: \ . . . Dominated and they won't study more. To the Cider Mill Oh Rollo dear, -what shall we do? We railed again.st the Hale House stew; subsidized by more and the less And the Concordy is read in four opulent of rich families: Williams, minutes. D. L. The chef he read it, did he Smile? Not he, his blood began to bile. Brown, A.mherst, and R. P. I.\ . . . *Editor's Note: Refer The Con- Poll of Swarthmore, Penn and Tern- cordiensis, Words, Nov. 12, 1937. It's hard for us to place the blame, He puffs with greatness just the I LIBRARY SMOKESTACK I A while ago we spoke of the autobiographical comment that our international correspondents have been turning out profusely as they roamed our sick world looking for new areas of infection. Another kind of journalism, just as expert, lighter in mood, and even more disturbing in implication is ·being published by the fellows who pre- fer to stay at home--at least most of the time-and write o'f the three-ring circus in their own back- yard. The latest recruit to this group is Jose.ph Mitchell. a young South- emer. trained under Stanley Walker on the New York Herald Tribune. Those who recall Walk€r's City Editor, The Night Club Era, and Mrs. Astor's Horse will won- der if tb.e disciple has equalled the master. Well, Mitchell's My Ears Are Rent is just about of the true vintag.e-ephemeral, but heady and exuberant. Joseph Mitchell is maestro of the cockeyed, somehow able to unloose the tongues of whntPv~r zaniPs or mountebanks or stuffed-shirts he approaches in New Yo-rk. His whole book is an hilarious footnote to folly. Our d-istinguished Librarian. Mr. Webb, re[>orts on Kurt von Lu- decke\s I {{now Hitler: \One moPe item of the Fuehrer bibliography, but written with a surprising ef- fort at objectivity. Ha.rd going. but worth the reading if you doubt that it can't happen here:· Pro- fessor A.bbett is enthusiastic about E. T. Bell's Men of Mathematics, which dramatizes the careers of all the world's most notable mathe- maticians, from Zeno to Cantor (not Eddie). A blithesome gay little story is Barbara. Worsley-Gough'.s A Fea,. ther in Her Cap-a bunch 'Of young English people, don't you know, sky-larking on the Continent. Just a sentence to note two ex- cellen·t February magazine articles before the March numbers crowd them off: \Bernard Shaw at New Library Books Wh::~~ rebel or make a crack The following are some of the He'll pass the buclc: to Mrs. Mac. new books which will be put into circulation in the library this .With so much power at his com- week-end: mand, Fiction It's hard for us to understand Why Hale House food should be so bum, Serenade - James M. Cain (the author of The Postman Always Rings Twice.) The Running of the De!\r-Dan Wickenden; a tale of December. Pigeon Irish-Francis Stuart. Miscellaneous Death in Dublin; Michael Collins and the Irish Revolution- Frank O'Connor. Army ·without Banners; Adven- t.mes of tlte Il'ish Volunteers-- Ernie O'Malley. Pepita-V. Saekville West. The Good Society-Walter Lipp- man. America's Yesterday--F. Martin Brown; information about the early Peruvians, Mayans and· Aztecs. American M rnory - Edited by Henry Beston-a collection of bits of historical information from va- rious familiar sources. · ·And similar to Army Slum. Now with the blame where it be- longs, Give us good food and we'll sing songs Of praise for all tbe kitchen clan, Including chef, y'understan'. Hey, Rollo? () 0 ~omeday somebody will say some- thmg about student activities which isn't somewhat J:Joring. And the edi- tor of The Concor-diensis will cease being jealous of his columnists. And at that Utopian time Concordie!lllis deadliness will extend up to Friday afternoons for Friday issues. But them days is yet to come. So goodby now. Because I'm fi.nished. H. M.S. Fri.thru Mon. ~ji: •l j =' Mats. 25c: 11 ~j ---J CHARLES co·BURN ~ The Director of the Mohawk ~ Drama Festival in his First I Motion Picture Role! ~b®lr 00~00~~ \ oo!!t!t~~rn~~~~ , Prize-winning tiUe ol MGM's \Benefits Forgot\ WALTER HUSTON JAMES STEWART GUY KIBBEE 2nd Feature in \The Kid Comes Back\ The naughty but nice. Simone Simon.\ 8o, fie: to you who won\t admit the \moviP\ public. i> Intelligent: You a.re a cynie! Eighty\ by Edmund Wilson in the Atlantic:, and \Sports Writers are Always Wrong\ by Elifrt Spalding Yours truly, F.L.B. in the Ameliean Mercury. ··H.W.B. s E gel ho: tW J of ve: = t lu l:dl ro thl wl· l'! on na rh· te1 171 oh RE an ft'( \Vi re: so m• hi, to· cr m1 M: R• fo or 17 be fu fo wi fo Gt wl ar gc Ft th al cl gl VI of m 0 b t e f v a ~ J I ( t

ill.onrvrZ~_)birnsis I 1 ----- F\' ~ilHJ 1 &77 -------.~ :·.· '.-1 (.'at.tstl PrrJLA Part~!r ls•a: 1937 \\•\ 1'\8 '\!I, 1\ ,J tl \' 1\ til l'<ill'l' !11 l1p JH.nud t>!' 11\11'' I' l ' : t nd Jll'< ·ud \ I' 11\H me Jllll- I NOTARY PUBLIC i>tll \\ t' \11\11 ,1 It' It• >ll-'lail' I 1'. t' \,p ]11'11\\1\ ~,f OUI''t'\\'t':--'.' 11,;:.------'-'---...;;._;;_;.....;_,..;;,..;........;\\-_;....;..=;:;..;;==~-=-\-''-'==;_• The Cider Mill F•)UHdPJ:--· lJ:ty i'\'.~lH'. l:I:·d·· Boll.--•· ~\IIi ht.· :....:1\\tll 1 t·t•llllnl atl\'t' lt'.-.JH1t• t• )d,J ~- It 1 .... ~:·k~\ a htt'atll ,,f tlt\-h :ut 1'11 :\lat 1 \ 'tdJt•tll\t·~ h.;:l\t btt·I, IL-t'd, }dt• l'tl t·•i- lt'\.'t:,tl:-. tL.ll' lH\t·ili,-:.t•Jp't·, t!l'llll ttl t-lH• :--llilJt'tl •J! tl·lt' 1•\t• t·:Jlll- IlK 11 .u·~~·rdw ,, 111 tit.,t : 1 t.tt•n1p~ ... \\'•·l.nubt1!Nil :111d }wt .... onalit~ andnwr:u lpu:- ht 1 - 1 :uy n 1 :q!_:tJ.il1t'.'\- Tht• Idtll ,·qwl·l :tnytiltll...:. .-liPJt ltl' ,, ....... :t .... :--111a. J:y att·Illlllt tmput!ant lL:t.lL lUtt\'lt·::;~~~ at l.J ... t bt·t·n..:.al\'.tl1l/\'d lltt•J ;u 1 • 1111 , .• ·:1 1 , t•dn·t11;...:. ~.ht· .t.ti;t_~·. \Tl.t ; :··Ll.I lt•u~<..~ · · U!lt· ,..:tuup ~aal \ 1 tl.t~ll. Tl.11 Lt.-1' J.;_~\!t' \.\':1-..11·1 t'Xt't·l '' h il'it l 'II :trk~ i=b1~oY iufc•d Ci )ih •l\:utt:-- P\tt.'l>~ lilt·:' :l' 1.,., 11 lt'\'1 ·il'lllg· !'rt!' hi,:; i><'l't't>l'!llillll't' I' lf-'1 111<>\iull pit'l\\1'<', \( 11· \\Ul!liUI I r!'l'f· ll'tJf- Flt•lll .t!ltllll~ tht· llL:ill Il\ll=-1. 1\t'\\t'l llt\' gd dllillll. !t~nt, t•Xn·pt Ill tttl:t. .• t. bill \tt lt•:t~t Ill: .~ 1 ~t- .. - _,,\\.t'tvd tlJ't·ll 11:-: llllllllll- l'utun \\lJ:I ltt.-l' ~l ~ 1 ' 11 d ''1:~· II 1 ... \.\:t:llt .-t.ttll'. TLe ;-;l,tltL- aod 1 . 1 :1\d t:\ ~tt.tl. 1:tt.k dlt·~~- !JP!H \'Blll'li' .\hlnlu•hu lt·.tvt ... 1\t':>..t ~t·IJ :=.urtu•a·J 1.-.-lh'.- .-.ilUUld l,,. \\u1tl1 llll Banton i:- \\ttiklllg till .t 1\t\\ btt(lkt.·•·. i t·t,·tn~. tt\ r.ht· IJtt• .... t·llt 1att· 111 tilL- ~~ tl·Xtt'l! . ~tuku l,:wka1 d 1 '1 : pluvt•Jr.tnt J-. 1Hatntaint·d ..-\~ t'tll ph;tlh'Li lwiiltld \\a~hblllH ~~~:~pl·•'·ltLt ldlr· IHtt·I\al tllt•Jt' 1- t.dL11 \\\t••:lll'.·ll.t\ }1\ • ~Jt•!lfr \\. llo i Ill• II t' \\\1. tl• II\:J.ft•ti.tl ill i: tJ\.ill Ill ~~~~t·~.nt·l .~t,,p . .:\ Y llt,,\lt t'lltll'' tb,· idol. :n111 tl.t· vittl]n·t:din· :,,,,, 1 .1! r ;' \l ' II ' ' , I.\.\> ll I'\·\ ' i\ !I ' ~· i I';,, ]I(' < \ \\ \ h l' 11 I; ill ['>tst!\J~u tur or I.'.' t.tJl.' \\ .. I I ! '>\\\ll :till Ill ( lU 1 Illt~tl\'l' fut t.a~ ltt't n , 1 :t Nateuuiiil J:'dvertit>ing s~rv ite 1 ~ nc. '\ .-.:t' > ht·.ld \' >~II<' 11! l'.llillll·, ltt\\t Lw1ull~ ' 'I' l ''\ I I \1 I ' 1 I .. l 1]' [II II II (' ~~I. t )ll . ~; 1 .l.t t· t l. .- t 'I t't' II .:·u1 1 :·•:' .~.-,lett;:\\,, 1:,dll:t ., .... 1\:,l. ·- ' !,:tt t•lll .tllll 1.- lu lt ptll r t.'.j.Jlt.ldl:\ lit• :11'.''' ~~~ .... dt•Lttl in hi:-- pit·.tLUt.) t.lll:-. \\.el'k-. \\to.,• \\t' dt.-,·p\t'l 1 ... ~o~1u....:. ••11 t lind.- tt.\- (_,.lHIIIl } 1 1ttlllt· :....:• 111 1 lntl llll \'!ltd. r• \\' <i. 1\Jl,t·~ LI ... l\'t'll> .!tll.-11·~· lllt'llti•·ll Lt ... JD!I1t :\1~. <til p:t,..:.l Jt; :· lll :dlllt it~ll.- t:t~tt· my. \\t,at \\\alt. ·Br·ig~\' tlitl t,\ ht•ll l ~tll t.iJI h'''''' :. 1.- .t !Lit· ;11 d tl1t' TttJHkm:--' l'.il \\'~·l1, \\'~tl· ,.,,u\dn 1 ldtlltt·nt JtlJ,,J) \\'-1tl•· dad-. lu ,·ct·, th~IL' \\'t·fl' h.<t.p- -ltlltL 11 l 1 ~ot,J1htl\ ttJUdl t,, t\:ti';Jtllt tftt,l I'' , , . \ A-,,, '.,, t·\ t·t tlic tJlllt· hu~,.:.~ l'L, li H Ill \\' u.it· ..... b tndh:tll ....=,.iltJt' \\t'I, \II\ · lw!' 1 •!'t' :Lll• 1: 1 • Ill'<'' 11 It•, i ·,.\\\ t\.dk..:•· Ttw. '\''' i. h<ll•i•t·n.' \11•\ ill .:\\'lll'l!tl':,·ll.,\ ,,: \\t.ttl. \\1 .dt' 11ul :1\\Hll\ ·tJ! il,l\t' l !!ll {',-(\'1\1 PI\ tltt' ft\Jt![tll)j' ....,J;t~l' !i\tl.·t· Jlt~l 1· ll'tl\!ll'. lllli llllt·_:IIt~\ ~' E ''It\' l .. jt l .. ppl t't'l tl t.'•! II:'- T Lt· l 0 \1lll'UI dlt'll· 1~ ti~ .. .~t.·l!lt.tit.\\'~i\,dl'\l tht. 1 }J~,t:-.ttht•t·e~tun- _ 1 _ ,,tht·JI.\t\\t 11:tt \t•h··· \-.\u:d 11ut l't•:t.-..l' ..... JJt t!ol :tt l·l•l!ldt undt•! lilllt lufltl, ilt \l.tldd lltllt -ql !1 . 11 ,. 1 .... ~··:·· h,· ht·.IJ,: FuttlltiiUtll<', 11UI ~~ •ll-<'lt\t'ltJI :-- .i -tdt' ..-put '\\\'h~ .tl· tht·ll IJo\\ll l•\\'\1'1 tlt·j It bt>lll~ tJll· '\L• ,dtJ.tl.t~l1 .1- .lH J,; 1} t•dJ htlU:-ed lJv 11l•lld:-- l~·o\\:bi!Jt!ir,: .:-;,t. i.it:t• at l'nion ltr: tht :\-1_:...1'!~ (l<~ltlllh Jt!tlf lltl:-t\t·d ~.tr-tt··i~p(tJ(\ti u·.t! [Jt•(.t.ll!-t' du·.ttt·,l. \\'l'.'\. ,! . 1 • 1 .,,.,,. ·,,t.llk:-', la: 1:- pJa,l·d at tilt.> l lll\'t•J- lt.t ... !wt'll --t•Illi-' talk 11 1 II,- fl.~tll-.....1.•1\ ritt' lt•.-...l.i\.ti ~r!,d it- ln ... tittl~·l' :.1.1k '\'' tll.tn t1J1 :-41nldilln....: \\LJI~· i'h.·::~t'l' ;,:·t.· al!••.td,\ IH'i II\!..' f!ll'lllttlatt'd :·!Jll't 1 ,t'l ~Ill'\' \lllt•t)i.-lttt·rl'' \\\1 a1t' '· 1 :t.-l\•·ot Th.t:- \\t' ,fll.-.;\\t'l hy .-.aytng 1··1]· , •• r~·llll!l ..... l'o()ll ~-~li ... ;-.lJI'!IIlH'}'. Ht• \·\l!l •L:.t l•tf!II-'I Ul:ttl tlldlt\t a :...:tt,U}l VH· : 1'1111IIHt' 1111! JI'!Jl.t1ib lt) .-JH'l'lli<..' !Jt'l- -on-. ''\ a\'IIJd tll:-ll.ltlatlllg allu- -~It\ (t1 Tt·:\:1.:-. j 11H'l\). . ..!l\ll~ 1 ht· t\\(1 znagaZIIH'~. nu'v\ · • t :1:11 t.IH· lntt·rval ha~ IHUI\\' u1 lP .... ~ Uut !ir ... t bu1n'lllw llalltt·U ~\ li\ltaill' Jo!ll\·, d lJJ .. Juhu~on'_.. <· 11 ntl'lltton ~lulvt•y · · A ~:_u~tuu .... a~ll:--.t wtll tl~:~t tntt•tt·..-.t Ill Wltt1n~ dnt·~ t•Xi:-OL at tllu.-.trat(• The \\lts nJHtlll!!. _huuk l'J;itm, 1f 11 t\all ~w :tltlll~t'd. lJt·.-pitP Whll'h ,,tl} ht• lll•Ht' \tlu;.:_gt•l't·l·· hy ttlt· ht•tlPJ th:tl1 PX!Jt.\t tt•d !':dt• tt1 aut'gt•., ,Jolut:-,un. .. t•nion Lt't•d Jlllt ldlt-' Intt'I\'al (tht• tilnl of l{o .... t·n &. \\'tll 1·y a.htlUt tll·I ndnxnn 1.-tc--. < JXfot d, -~~·ttlt r· bati <t<'l'Olllltt·d fC)1 llL~h :lo .va:- :-:ued fu1 tlat•t• militull;--. . . , {\ttpit•.-; up l<· \,\'l'utlP:-tl:t\' artPtlluull' Ptulubttt·tl trorn ;.~tt\t·ndmg da:-.M·~ · Uwtt> wlll not 111 ali p~ubalulitv bt· aft•·! I•~,!J. :lr.th, Iilu·t \Slll h;,\'1.: lui ~ut'lll'it•at of wh:.t· I'. C. \\'tnll'l:'ou,•· pay a lllty Cl'llt cuJ!t~gL' debt bt:fott:l {'Ull.-: \tlll· Jl•adv\ to undt·t\\'Iilt_- a ht>J~~g 1-t··adtuittt·d ~· •. ··~d_l~· ll1}t'r-; .--Pt'oJHl l'11olt a~ p1 dt·ntiou:-- a:-; tftt· val t,/\~lvunt•t•d Cunl}llJ ... I~lOn !\'Pif·! Hr ... t. Hut tl{' ... pitt· int.t·n·al'.:-- r.:,l<H,rny ,\;_!!~TandiZPllH)nt n1:1. ~:t 'II nt•l ~·o:-;t·l]l!tl~}lt'd:-!, _...;.tHh ta~l-\ i~ :-tullt- ..... lghtl·tf ah1ur -1xty to puhli. ... !J: t~e ··]dol'_! Tht· :-:.tudt.•nt .. ot th~· Ad\·:uH·t.·dl'!llll(t J, ::icniur Board II:•\ .\ I : •.•. ,. '' Xews Editor .1·, atU!L' Eol.tul 'Ill t'l' li!ll:-- 1 'lill~' REV\ EW :-lt·l~.- 111 111 t•\···r:-- ruan':-:. la.th...!Ua~t·. ,,,. } 11 tllt' n:ul ''ll t.ta~ ht•a.d: .:'\t1W, t .J;,,. n~~t.it't' th.tl :t joL11ll;tlt.-.t':--: tiJ.-.r .!J:, '. 1- t .. tt•pcn: lit''-\' ... n11 rnatlt·I 1f (·,tt· oil,'c,l uf ( .. q1it.td...,n1, h;\ 'l'illll.lll-'lll .-\rtluld 11 J-. ...!t•u<t had d!t 1) tJ1 t•k:tll. If l·'o~ ; ... 1 , 11 d \' •l •)t,~·· '•I .I• llt/.~ 1l.ti1Hd1~ ••11111 , ... J,t•\\,- dlt·~JtllbiH• lJllkt.l\.lloll.\' 1 ' t, · ;.~ •. , ~ 1 • !i. 1 111 ·'' 11...:. 1- 1 .u t :tht~Ut tt . r uw 11~. \Vt• a1 ~· hut 1 \ l· _ 1 .· t1 .:•.:d\~t·...;;. !1;,;; tttitll· -ntu;.:l~ 11:--t'll. .1.-\ a rn:tn and a~ :--m·h .<ut~.ti)'ll1:...! .t.(J BOOK ·-\<>.t\.1: ,·It!llt·t . ..::~•'1 lli.: i.ldtrt_ lwl.ul,ti 1 tttJ't' \\lth tilt· t'u!H}litlatl\\t' ;-;:uuty ~L',Jtlt~a~.•d,·-. 1-1d1·t .. , •. ,J.- 'litl.:r·, .... ttt:~ 1 •f ··:h,·J 1111'11 ~httllld \\'t> fttl a \I , 1 ·:.•·::'\. I\l-··lld r ... l\,t:- tt·u-~~ tt·.tJ.-.: t~lttlllt'IH :J--:--:llnlt' :1 lofty <·ti1ll'<d ;ur I ! i .~putt~ E<.l!lut I .. , ,, II \I \1 )..i I. ·• \.: 1: ( '1 t c u.a tton .!\[unager -41HJJIIJI\ Buatd ·' •l ,. I . !... ..: •• j·L,~nt:.-1,:-- IIl<llulitd.:tlizul intn ~rPeUs' :u•d lwt'tllllt· tt'IJ !Jnllt'::-t.ly in.:--ultJng. ,,, ··-!,,-•· 1 ,·\itt,ll. :.:<·' ,,. 1 ~ ··;.....·.l.'l'•i.:~\\tw;\. 1 W0 .11r rrptr)\'l\d And why·.~ Ht•- :1 i\ 1'd-• 1 ;:,, ''i'•• , 1 .;,. 'ht· ,!,:1' tt:IIt.-:, 1 ~ <1! t';tll·! !'ll!ILL!!l 'IIlith hutf~ ... ft•\\' uf ,• r•·i· -~~·ot .. t~ n:'t··,t·t'lla . .- :tlltt1·r J·1.~l~l••ll:- t!.·~ tl:- ·~•' hr:t\'t' t·nuu~h to bt·ar the I · ··~- ~\ \'.tll't:l': t'.al T!.uiitl-i·ll .\Jntl•:- Tht• p;tJI.l ~T~lt· •th(l\'l· pat:lglaph dDl':-- 1t•t;l·kttlit' 11 f (~q:itali-.111 t.t- l>•·ln it:trlt•t! .... tl:t• II~-:~ ; .• ~ <tJiply t• 1 Hll' t\Hl Jwoplt· \\\ho \'\ l 'I • ·t 1 , 1 :, .:\lt j~'··· 1L1· tlJ:tt ~-t-n.ttl:i .. ti,t .11.•1 t'I•Jnplinu·nt\t··ti t!-.t'(JJI\'lPU--l'uhunn l .\ ! 11 . ito::..:..~._· \1•, I! t> 1 t,]llt\- \\.fltl '1• !.1 .1 .J:t d i!.t• !!\Ill! •:'' l·.' • IIi t'<'ll ', 1 J.! , t 1 - :• l • 1. \ (l J, l~ I !I\ 0! .1' •,'- 111 '',j \ 11:, t\ l II.\ ,'i,,q't!.tl k't::,_; .-•··~~ '!;a1 <.tlliy Clt't'l!'ilil};-t:l) 'I : I :-. ' ! ', Y 1; 1 I-: 1 :• • •1 !'1 t!' \Jtl .• 111 ;;I~ i1.1! 1' \ :lt '\ t .• , i, .\nu-·1w .• ~l .1:. t;lt.lt·J,:-- ht\'1 bn·n t•·11.· ~llll1 it' at I'-:. i 11.· \\\I ~'~nil ~t· httuH, Jtlll i'\' I, • ;...::tl~il'·'i. 1lld full nt· ft1t' -.;tlJit' :-olt·rnt. f. J.,.l•:-.· \~ :lo .. t • .d \\:It·!: itt-. ftt•·Hd ~tU.tt 1 .. • 1'1\tl 1 ,,,.; .•. :.- mti>H~t·.- ~- ,J.-·n~•tntt:•t' tJ,:!1\ \!'.1: o!.~tl\•1:- 1 t1•.:.·\ b.1l'k llt• f.!lt,,L': B:wk to \\'t 1k :o:;u~L:L':>t that :J,p- piau-.t' la·fttll' a ch:tpt·l ~!wa!{t•l -J•t· ·k ..... lw t•lllll t t••L ;-!.ttiUt· !\'t udt•llt .... alt' g1t•t>lt·t~ \\.llh :t Illlllot ova.tton anti otht•I.-. .1 l.!lt'a1 ovation. Tlu.~ :--t•t·tn.-: uufa11 Bt· ... td.t·~. n1any (Jf the 'Ill ottlltlt.'lit.. t ll:l to!:- ol wh(J£11 WP ha\·l' llP\\l'! in·ard hcn~iiy dt·:-P!\'e tJlli ('otnplinl•·tJL- .. until tht·y ha·\'t' \a.J 1 :111tt·d t t.~·m. If t!tt.· :--t.Utlt·nts ~till want tu t';;ll' aftt•r a .... JJL•t>l·h well. :til ridtt n••h.Jt' it i<' turn L o:-;t~ 11 HilL' tha~1 1 ~·tl'. 1 ' that tUll«•l.Ull d 1\\~ :-.hould havt• rn·Jntt·d llit·diuin .. :'ll:ty '\\'.e t!dltlll'l·a.IIZL• to ~ay that 1 f<,t\ theit rXIJt'tlllH·ntal dfutt~ It \\'t.• ~ti·ll ~.h1nk tl~n~t· \dltl madt~ l\ht~: .~h~ntld bP \\PIY lllf·'qn·n.~i\'L' n:tt('h \lntt•J\·al JHJ.-::-olb l' ~h,uld haVP Jt.•.-.:... :Hubit h u.- 1 b;tn tht· Jllt.':-..t•nt ~i\'t'l~ v-.·hat 1 1 1t'.l'l' WPtl· <'1' thtoll tal-· .-ht·t·l. ,\t tht· .~<.i!)lt' t:n-a·, lilt-' cul- l'l!l:-- t'\ .-;Ut•n;.:.tht•n tht' ,,ffici:tl nd· ~ lt-·..:.l' u:-- a \VllolL' :-Lt,Uid h.t\'t• ,t n.:t~­ h•t-:l' q_u:utclly. In{'Jdt;.•ntally, tlt~·l.tt:itw ()r Mt_·Ill'l:ll :qqtt':tl, \.\ltL. p.t·ut~ '\.ft:or· <'o'\'ct· \\:a:- U:-t'\dun thP ~~lli~:12! ut ptct.urt· .... a.nd ft·:tf'Uil':-, .:\I.·ntht : .... C <l.t'lHi~ll lJUbiJ .... ~~(·lL :~r.d ~ol(i 111 3 1 tJf tht• eulll}'t):·l1i1Jio cla:-;-, \\flu l-.lll hv :·wo :··t wient:-. \\'ho .-uiU hund1c·d~ 1 \\'J·ltt· (•O(JULn .~turf .-ttottld .-uhrnit it h~ll ditin't bn·a]{ l'\\t'll. 1 f:>utd:a:-t'lt-l tu thj· Idc1l. tmt tbt· l':tt'flal!.:--. Dq.p.~. :-ttll 11\.Vt' t.lwnl OH•ll.l'\'.) •. · ThP Ft•XL':-, and =--intil<tt Iitet.tti .-httttld B.and rni!-<::->Pd a hla:-.l~ by ontittint: I 'ti..,u ha\'l' tlH·ll t1W11 IlH-dllllil. Tl~t• thL· national -a.ntht'm fm· thPii Co![lp, cLt!\':- nwg:tZlllt-' ~huttlcl IJ •. H .... trunJpPt Iel'ital 011 V\'tt~hln~ton's 1 lu;...:hbrow a:-; po'\\':-;ibh·. Atlll hl't\\·t·t·U hi1thd:::wv ... B:ond azHi B.t1Wi1• bet·l· ('in.-.~ anti lll~i..-.:-: th{'t (' :-:hc1tdd bt· a in~.: m \tl~l' Plaza ThC'~ttlt· \Vt'lt' lt'- t'Iit·ndiy hut l1iftt·J t·o 11 qwtJ 1 Jtlll nwvt d bv u~hPt~. . H.cuvat d ha~ h .~qu:ut 1t~, l{··,·p ·~tl:e bttr.s\ out ()f n'''.F-.J•:q,pr~ Ft·htuHIY .. ~rtu·att·r .AI'_..; :V1:t.~·· :-a\·~ nn anlfltl'Ul' nrt·ol 1 ,,t; .. tfd J>'1Y att£,nt ion to hb dike-In 1.1 :---;,,., .. wouldn't thHt rn :li<P :Ed f.ll'· roll maddt'r'? . , . Y\-lt- \tudent:-' l':dl <:111 JllufP~:-01~, d<Jl'ttlJ\ PtC'. :\lb-tPt. c;, ud Jmi n1.' i \\. .i ... t· .I! It, T .. t!! -'t J: \..'t·~~:, 1 1 1 ~: 1 \., duwn tlit· \\'u1 ddt Ilia\ Lt• l'lo.-..t.•U 11 ~.\\:.· .1 :· ~.ilt·· h·,V·•!', t,! ''·It J•tthl'l,:t! t.u l'llllt·;:,uut!-<. \\·t· il•'JH .. ' .. ~u tLt.· ti~ht!- ,, 1 1 il .l: ••• ··lt •''''' )·\l;'\h.t.: \ '\1'f }'·l~+l·,fl \\'t'lt> 11111 (1\\t'l ;;kidlllt!Jt't._'tl;:. ' :.·', 1 ·•' • .11..: t• .\I:- .. ttl ... t.• r~ t~.1. .. U·t llt' :: ·:tl·t h,._ .Jail \1\ar- tt.t· laliiH.· :a:-1 \\.etlne:--Lia\ 1 t; · .. ;till iJt•1 lt·r · nl!..dlt fnt tJll'Pt• Phi :-'i...:,mtt Delta;. ~----------------------------• Y L.- '· 11 t ··f ··!l...:i:.d.::'- \f ~·.:tclJJ...:!Lt . 111 :...:Ia··~· tl: botth.•U fur \'ar!nlnl'\' Th£> Col- ·-,' . t.•:).. !\···-t·l 111.- 1• d _t•!:lll-- ~·I ·:!l''l'H~l..: ~a.tt' p;l..-.tlll. .. \\'ill :--;Ulll ht• LIH:--hl'tl I \u• · \\-~dt·· i '' :1 \·1\'•\•-! :;~--~ t·~~~ '\·'-·' In I !.t· LJ~'. i 1 ••• ··' 11Ut . \JabJt·· tlPh't'tot uf a 11<•\\.'S I ~i· '• •· t!~ tl k· ••·tt:Jlll ' 111 ,:.tL:- · ,f.lt·t'l 111 \'~ 1 :-.l..! ULnl• I hontb will t.•xpJ,,dt· 1t Tllt>:--tlav next \'··\, .. ;·'l•tll:-- .. r.<t :,-:-,::lll~: ·;~· 1 : 1 .1. :J.t·:<~~·.ntJ ..... n~u~- . HPt'l' wa-.. ,.;;f,ld la.-.t :-;un1:01PI In .\.,...,..j,.. tanb ( ·. 1-';:th\ _ttt!l-·a: :. ;-~:I1U • .:- J}Pn ~.ot· -\'- t•·l.t•J,I <~:ltl ~llilPi~lll H<dl' l\}(llll?yand hank- ll.da\ 1 :1! 1 t· .. 1~ .. ,:,~n 1 ·-~t. ;tli J:t\tf:.- .n- .ll.•:~· ·t·h·tlpl;..,:. tiJ•I . 1 , 1 !' . , 1 ., • • •• 1 ,, llll·r,d~ ·t ... LI_~ Hn: , 11 ,~ t!.J- 1 Ill..! ,pnnPt.t ou~fP< trn UlH.IH\It'1~. l~U<Jt.In~ ftHlll ,.,\lllt'tira·~ Sixty \\ ll:lt' 1 :l'\l\!, J,. ••• 1.' :. l' •·nr.:- lO•' 'l.tlit , .•. n Familic,.. Duminall'tl and 1 ..... \1.:.1 \.. 1<.\,t I I ~l :' il'\.1\ L\!; F.\TI:c!Eit~ .. , ::ilL•·I.-' \t,t\•·1~·., ; '~ '! j ',L ·.) ,,. 1:•- t! \J.J i !JC] IJl\.:.h:- 111. that 1 ,\ ~: t l ,• • , 1l I'~ l J) \ I.: !.t· ! .. t~ ,Jt::-·~Jl '\' -3 1;1\ :~ , t • j. II '• \ 1' 'II ,\ J Jl< ,;r J 1 uh,HIIZf d h\ rwn·p and tht> }p:-=;~ 1 <>pnl<·nt ,,f tidt hnuli•·--. \\Tli.<lll<', nJ<tWll, Anlht·r:.:t, and. I1. P. I f••\liidilt~ . .. f., '11It t:tlt·•! .. \ 11• r had 1 I'ull c1f ~watthinott:•. Jlpnn :tnd Ten1- l'l' l'j~.-) [;.:'-- ttll' :,J,I- J:1Jt!· i.t't! •:!1t' ,•,,;;,•dl''ll- 1o[ , .. ~-·r. t.,\•· t11tt. P•\1\111 11. l'l'~ ·lt 'it JlllJ,~il' d\l'i' .-,· •., -lit t , ,tJdlto\\. t,·t~ .li;--t bo t•!, :_.tt•t·l.t.J !lll»Ution-.. ti· ... .;,:.~ ... :d ;.;_,·..,.r .. ,\]!,~ ,,~,·,lf,,t·! Ti-·u· l·t•lllult• ui ('iJIII\tJ· .... tll lf··· ~:,,·cl•·pl·.-~:l:~·~t..~u~tll )~lg.!,':l tly ;l:nll 1 t'J. ~ • ·,.. ~1· ... ·.I:·1·1J.-;1 .-:.~~t~},; ht• l\'{ltll.tl with l .. 1 :I · n•·\'··· ~! ·' •. __ : ... ~\ \\ Jth· 1!tt- 'tLt <! :--t'{ ,,nll- c»lllllt•'II<Ld' i.1 \' f.,t·. l-11 1 1 ll•lll' f1' 1 >lll 1 1. , .·. 1 .. 1- •• 1 ,,, ·n., '' '\k ,- l><td_ Tha' .- .\t •· }.'.,,· ..... :-Jit't't\'h ,,tl l \·ddlt' l\\ <• \i;\·pek.:. il;_!O: ··Jt ·.!•; : l,:,t H·~· .. :ttl' t•l.tnw : l:tl t.ll·,t ttt::~-·t~ lll:tdt• tIt :~,~~ ~· tit• 1\>'ll.tll' .• i tit!' lll:'iilllti< l I Ill t:.. 1, K '.; !t Ill 'J\! pittJI:.t; ... \Jl Yl·ll 1 .. tilt· -...Lt:--l;Uitrll.~ 11i -.tandc:tltl:.:-- \-\.lnt·!l tnal,t·..... .t, ,~, .,:.111..- t\:· u.t· !ll.t•utl. 111 ,,,·~pt·rak 1. .11:11 it ~~~ t.:.t· lt<t..d l'~~ !lltll\lh·}'IIH I 1 ,,.. cutdt ii!lllti\ll :t.' llliP\I LtltL ;,- tl·;tt !1t:1dt· Lr tht· I•·l!LttL•I·, •'I <tll itt,..l11.·111 i1111 <tlld til<' -llt<'t'~-'i\'(' l !l:t~\t'l':'.\ \\.,pptl,l'. I· ntnn II:t:- a g laii•l l':t::>l 1\ l'\'k 1·•. :t!lll ·' ·t t!t:tl i:--. ;r\ tillll'.'- :till!ll>t ll!lflll •n: .. ttl'. l n!DI!Il;t,.; lt\'ked h;td--\1·\·;ttll loo ,,flt'll ,,,t• \l.iti·.,·I' t'l!t't'\ .. 1 alit\ 11.-1,... faik·d \11 t,,p;t::tiut· ••t. 11\' futut-.·. \\'1· ita\'!.' c!Ppt·ndt>d !\\ I!Jll.-i t li.>~'li ; J,,. -'P\lltallt•\ll\' f-!!'ll\l'tl! ot' 11l:at ~,, .,-\i .. ;;tlil :ttill .. ,,,lJ,~~i.Ltt·\' \\itltout <illl.ii,L! llllltlt t .. i \.-l-<'1' :--lldl :,.!Ill\-\ tiL \\.t• tl;,n :, Pr. ~\<~-..·. ntatiJI ;tt'f!\llltl'llt 1,.. !tl\:-1 \l'l'·'\i'i'•:th· t»J t\d:.t \ cl'!dtt';:.ti.,Il. l'••r ·• ·. lll'>llll'<lg·,.,_ <tll artitu<i<· \' .Lchit•\>!.'lllt'll; u .. : . , till' tut-tn•· 11!' th•· p<t:-l. rJ\1\ 111 tlu· ptt•:-c•ltt. 1: r•·ll<'Ltlf':- t lw JH•int lll<loCil' I~- <'lt<tt ).,,... \\ .1!dt ,~, '.'',t·:·,:. !l11)~-:L}: ... Tt:t.d. ··'; l't 1 lJ, .... Ju1kf, II. tl' '· .. <~,iUI<' il\TIIl1ip\j,,il'illt'i.ll• 11f pa,.( tt·\ \1-lti I·· tht·.l \~._.,.,:-till tlltdt·rgrad- l'lt·· t•·.•tlc:ttl\il ol l!Il<•ll l~u\lq..!L' \\illl'll!l· tillt.It· t·~ ~~~~~·A.\\·· l\1•1,e ..... ,J Itt( I~~: .tl~ li' tl.lHh 1 l'- ~lit<illatt·· lc ~ .. 1.• tltt p:Lrt til\~ i,;l It' it> pia.~ .1.>\1·::,: : .. ~: :h,i lt'jllll:tli\L \\1· .tl<'Jll't,l!d !11 ;tit,\ \Ill ;t·llt .- i» ;(It iii:'lii'litllll! \, !1il'h l'c'- lt't\t·- !t•·p····: ;.:.d 1'\<-lt Jtl':\,--t' \'.!tl'lll'\'1'\' it,; ll:t-111•·· j, utt·nl,.•tttd. It~., t>tt·,u~lt .'udt \\n- <;l.,,ti•·ll' :titd 1<•!11[1kt•· '!~-Ill, <\>'lllpliflt'd »\II' Jt•Jltll;t\'il HI. T\1;,.. t·•>l h•f.,!t' h t LL• p:·\cltll'l 111· llilllt' t haP th•· p:t.,t. 1.1 i,..: :tll\'t' t•llla,l • 1111,\ ll!·t·;t\l>t' it:- _,tud•·Ii\:-- ;~:ttl .alllllHii an· i!ttlirectly ib ad· 11Iitti.':i<!\\l'. llur :t<''-'\lllJlli=-hn1nt· 111 11!·· 1'11\lttlt•· ••t c•dl<·)!,'•· 1\ttl'k cllllll'tli ar ,~_, \\t·l: :1:' t''\lnt <ll'tPl'llliltt• its ,,t;Jit<ling·. ,\ h ·I l•'••ll 1;.·11,l. t I'll' i1.:- I•Jl. ~ lt\lJ illlt-. F.J.l>!. MOTION l.n Our :\lail Y( d \,'·'' r:.1nl\ ~11\l!t· -tn:tt~ ~ou \\h11 nitlt'Irt· . ·.,:, · L.Jt',..!. \ < ,u ..,t·t \'Jtlll han do':) un, you \Vho feel -liP*' r .-·!: 1·o i h1· 1 t•.-1 .. ~t ll-\' yull \.\·t.c~ l laliJ, ~ !w \u.u\\t,·· _:ni.L...:. ~,uhlll :.;t.- .t t~\\11\.1' ~t.tl-t'],t. u.u:<~ i tdll ..:.I•·t 1 .tr_ \ t:l l1l u.i:-:. 11Jtt'11 h•!IE.•J tu tty .--:1 Jt•futaticm of ~'(l\1! .. , :.1- 1 ~: .~i'\t' fi.t,•t;._.,itt~ ~tHuJ~. ,.\::ti -u 1 ;Ull ;;.,:otn~ 111 ~}11· t• Jt:~:t.-.. ul lt·~tf·l.- to \It.o\·it' t:lt:q.!:- tH I•ltJ\'l' n.~ :'' .:1; '\ ~ • ,, z- 1 r.o~t !ltP p•••p!t· \'-t~·, ._(J t-tl ti~t· ··rno\'It·r-· : t'.:...ll:·l.Jl:-. .-dt' JU:--1 H:- I!llt'ih;...l'11t .. tllti Il1CJybt· ti:nit· :-11. t.~ \·t~tl .-rr~.·rtlt=-' iilt'. A:-; yuu \\'Ill ~l't' fl<tilt. m~· qu()t.I- 'Jil .... e~;J1t· ~·: t!lt-·Ill niP al.~~ •. tb.l_' to \\\\1111• 1':\.t t·llt'lll ,•1•·~·· ,.-- V\,,·1! :t.~ '' ::-t•, l il.u:k ruy llttlf' a.Jttde. :dHJ\lt ,~ L i ;1.1\. bt't 11 t.lllllkltlt: f\' a !(.111;:..:: t,JJl:l', \\Jil l'litr,_t ~- 111 UlllllL ,\.nd .-o 1 qlh ,t·,. J ··- :· .- •• atJH· l:{t. ;~·\\t•od :J:·t- ! ;....?.tt ·,, Eruopt· tot •l .J~!f' lfltJJ: .... ttl'~ <·ortJiJ 1!:t· u;<.~rkd fut· top-notch t~>r :L• flt \\'Lt'l1 lt !;a.- :--t t1 .:-- ltl\1\ l-\::1y rtanCJ:'. tp·hlt·. brliltat.t dlaiHllll.~. w!J,, 11• tl.'-lll,..: ()!l trx •• ,d. t\ nti:-t':J:-:tlng.'' ' ' 1 : ' : I ' ' I 1 ,, t ~ . . .• : ' t J ·, ·, d tf1 ~.1 n: tt' ,,_ :!.t :~.ll- a:-: Il':ll fl{'-h and t : I ! '. ', : i : - I ll Ill . I II t\I ~~ i I : l ,, .. t .... t.!_.tllg,.; \\,.t' 1:1) Ill !\til' \'i!lllf' ~ ; It ' 1 .I t· \\ ~ tl> d( I \\·· ,Jo,' ··~. l}- . ', 1 , .. ·\. L,ti. lt .. c- Lapt1envd ·: 1 it '!':lied 1•~1~ 1.111 1 \1:-t·d t 11 l;t~ .. 11 t·_,,t J.-1il',tl ]at. }It'] h t.p;.;, f1llt hI''\ 1tll·nt•d 1111< 1 \.\tt -1 ·•b.1t·· (l)\\111··, tuu'IoU .. lwil:-tl!·· •tt.olkl' tu • \. · :1i: r :~, 111., I .~:.t!J :-.. 11U in t li .. fal't' wtttl rny glo\'l'. 1 '· :· .:t .h l\' ,,~ t ht· d.<tlit'lll:.!;l' ... ·Jl•· H.lj.' llt•! l•t !,<JI~d~nil~t l;(• 1111~, 11111 lt•· \.\t·d Jl· :! l) 111 1 ·~\1''1' ,illY ;:~1oft lct·J ft .. f•t. l•,.l' i . hl~~~ .11\d I tlllll k}t• \\ht!i !ol' lCllJlt'~ li~ttl \.'if'\\ 1'1.i lill ... l. iltlllt'lt \,,~·ll ~.i:- \\\oe_ HrH•~ \\'nu HtJo~\ t.~ · J l,l }{: 1'••\.\dl pia~ /lll•l~· IJ!:J ·~ur t· 1(1!1·r- lfp .... fttl ·,,I ',!il' ;--}.\ \t llll...: riJ.!ll .. t·~ :·, I,~~ 1: I'':.~ •. t·. t.,, ,.1 t!JI(! a .... ·n~~· 11f bU!lJnt. -t•tlidl!l;.! <1 Jlt'L-Il11:ilily lu ln· friHL'1 ing away her .\ .. !.t.~ 111. :·r;t1·•· \\\:t.lllt 1 , . ...,1 ., .... ,. \f Utt· . lndy t--fr·a1H ,<)' llh fJldili4'.\ I t il,lll' ~ t•U 'It' t \\ h\/. .. \ud JU.~t \L tilt !tJ .~~ttHt' J-~u .. ~ tlfllf· :0''11 dt·\f';liJl ·r ,,-,• cUlt· JittiL' ptllli J:~ :a \ttl'! I.•· ;u·tJt>~~ J· •. ~t \ (J\l :dlJ!l~· ~[··,,. ;liti;.:l.t,\ but ni, ~im,,n~· Muuon.\ ,t• (!J \t 11 \\!,o v\· ldli.Jt ~tP \tru•\'it•\ ptl}llk :1'•1:1-.··llf·: Y·ll :!It' H (',\)JI(' 'i'olll ~ t IUly, F.L.B. It LIBRARY SMOKESTACK I .\ whtl<' a.ctl \\/t' of lh<• ... uttJbb,gta}dtwa.l eornnH'nt that out 1!11.t·r natinnal <\<•ll-t!\IJHJndt•nt:-- have lw•n tlllllltlg ••ut pltlfU.-I'ly a~ tht~y Jlt'iBII'ti l•lll llt•\\. .~i('k ''othl ltltlkin~ ful uf in f1·c.tion. AnotlH·l kind of Julun~,IJ~nl, jut't as PXpr•tt. li~htt·r in ni!HJd, and L~Yt•n nlDt<' d1\'turbin):.! tn im(-Jlicfl.tion i.:-:. bt>ing puhli~IH•.d h~ t ht· t\llln\·s who Jli\E'- [PI to ;--;tay a.t btJt.l\l' 11f th•· tin1e and at lt•a.~t n1o~t w till' of the t 1 li!'t·· IIIH! t'ilt'll~ In illPII nWJl htH'k- ~ ;t! d Tht' lH.tl·~t Jt•f·llltt to thiH gtllllfl i- .ft,:-···ph :\]itt ht·ll. ::1 youtH!. Soutll- •'; Ill' I'. t·Ja.nwd undt'I Stanh·>· 1.·\·alkt·I o.n tlh·' ;o .. :·t·\.'\' Yor.l{ HPtnld Tribtltll'. ThtJ~t· \\bt> Jt'(':Jll \\'all{t--~1·~ City F:tlitor. Till' X il!;ht ('!uh Em, .tnd :\Jr-. .. '\~tu1'-., ll11r~t· will w.Jn- dt·; If thP di:'('ip}P )t•t..: i'tlll:1l!t•d t}Hl PJ't.~f,•l'. u·l·ll . .:\1 itf'lwll':-:: )1(~ Ear\! An• Henf i~ jn:-~ ah~tut\ of thf' tt ur vinfit~~· t·Jdn·lltt·r:.tl hut ht·a.dy nnd t·XU1WJ:t111 .ltJ~I·Jth ~[itl'ht•Jl i~ n~:u·~t r n (If ~ hP c·c ll'kP\-t•d. ~onlPhow 1hl.· t.1 an!•H .~1· t ht: t'•ln:..;tw:-: r,f \\ }~·,t.·\\1 t':111i\:-: o1 n~<HJntrhnnl<\ rll' .-;tufft·d • ..:h11 b h1· :tllJlfnncht·~ in ~t'\V Ylll k. } Ji .. \\'h(Jlt• biJ(,k b H.ll }~;!atinll.;; f<n•~.nqtt• to f.ll\·. (htl ,;1:-..liP.-U~:-htd f\_ilJ: ;t: i:111 . .:\It \Yt·bb. Jt·pott:< on l\:u1t Vt·a Lu d•·~'k-\'~ I H.!lln\·IHit:Pr: 'Oill' tnon· ~~f•'!l r.f tilt• Fw·ll!t-'1 hlhliot.:ta,ph:o·. btJt \\ 11tt1·n \\'Jth a . ..:.UJ}JJ i~in~ \f : ·! t a' ubjcoc ti\·;t\. lh t·d ;..:t~i:ll-:, hut \\\qJ tlJ till· Jl'<id;II:.! if :'-!-II £ltJUbt th.tt d ,.a.u't h:I}J}'tll ht It' ... Pro ft·:-o.-CJJ ,\blH·tt i~ <t\·ntlru~ia~tk about E T Bt·\1·, :\lt•n ol' :\Ja11wma1it''• \VLi· h 'ltarll:tfizt·.-. tht· catt·t·t!\ of ail tlu· wntld ~ m<t:--t nota-hlP n1at h<)· rn:UJt\ian:.:. ftom ?.:(·nn to C'antot ( rJtlt F:ddit•) A hlittw~om!' guy lilllt> \tnty i< Ba1 b:. m \\.ut.· h·y.c;ough'~ A Ft•a- Uu·•· in II•·•· fall \ bunrh of youn;: En dish pt>opl<', tl< Ill 't you know, ~ky-latking on the C'ontinPnt. J11~1 n ~t>ntf'nr t' to nntP two PX- ••t>llt•nt l<Phrurn>· mag-azin<' atticil•< hdot<' ·I h•• ~1m t·h numbers ctowd thf'm off: \Ht•llln.rd Rhnw at Eightv\ bv Ednnm<l \V!I>'on in the .-\1-lantil', ~nd \f\pn1t~ Writers A.rr Alw~~-, Wrong\ hv Eliot Spalding- in till' AllH'l'iC'llll :Y.IPr<'lll'Y• H. w. B. \Ve '\YL'te Jn•titJ(Jlleli 1 hy a culll~~l' oftictall to <\arnpaig-n fur aftl'l noun .. 0 That tht· in1t·J\ 11'\\ \dt~. :ht· H t.lt· lluu~~-· .:)tew in tlit~ la:--t ('111Utlll1 :-IIUl·k a t·l':-:JJ{I0.-1\'t· l'hOid 1~ dt'IU tm:->tJ: a.tt•d hy tbi~ ami!l·d-in \\l~! .:--t' culltribtltt'd hy that uhiqtiil.tll~- ft I lt•\\', AllUH\Ill.CIU:-.. It 1.- lJ\ ll~!t\lll•· c.! :t f.,llu\\.\ U.JI (J( ruy to\\11 ~JHlt-.lt <\ht:-'~P<\ al\' . . that would hE' put- To th<' ('hlt·r :>!ill tin~ 0111 ' nPck..-; in a ll<>fl:-e fot :--Ul r.1 CJh l!ullo dl'-n·. vdwt .-.hall Wt· do'. 1 l'ni{m~l'l~ wlll l:tkt• :tnytiu:·-. hut:\\.\ tailf·d 1' 7 '1. -t tbt· Halt lf\IL·' t b·~ V\!ln't :-<tudy rnote. \ ~tl'\V' ' '\~' 111 ' Anll thr Conf'o1dy i~ rt·ad u-. r.(·lJt l\ l'lw cht•f lH· tt·aU rt. dtd ht· ~ 11 .J1,.·~ nlinutE·;; 1). L. .:\ut lw, h~:- bluot! ht·~~~n Lt1 hdt· .;-Edittn's ;..;ott· llt·ft•t The Con- COl'lli0n~i~. \\'ord~, l:':tJ'\.' 12, 1937. It· .... h:11d ft~J tt.--o tu plan• tht.· bl:u: t.'. 1 Ht puff_.. with ~I£•attlt':...,-. JU.--t 1 ht· New Library Books Tht• follow in..:, a 1 t' :--o!Ht' of t.lll· tli'VI.' bt,ol\:-; wh~t·h \\til ht• JlUt int11 cn<.:ul:1tion 111 1114' hbr:tiY this \\t t>k· I'll d. l'i<\1io·ll SI'I'Ptl<.uh• .l:illtl'' ~1. Cain <t lw authf)f\ (tf Tlw P'u-,t;mau ..\hHt)S Htrl~'> Twi(•t•,l Tht• Hnnninp; of tht• ll<'t'l' I Jan \\'Jd(~·nden; a I HI•• of !Jee••tnb<'t. i-'i~~Pon It·hh Fli.ltlCL\ Rtu·ltt.. ~~ i~t·c· Hu.nNHts iik:~.th in Duhlin: ~E:irhal'i Collin~ and tlu· Irish Ut·'l.·olu1ion Frank o·c 'ot liH ll'. ::-;nn1e; \\.'ht>n we H·Ll'l ur rnakp a l'l at'k He'll pa:<~ the huck to I'.lt ~- 11al' \\.'ith su IllUdl pu\\'{ 1 1 at lli~ <.'tJtn mand, It·., hal d f\t Uo tu undetotand \\'hy HaiP HoliH' food f'houltl !Jc ~o bum, Antl ~innlt~J t11 At n1y Shun. ~ow \Vith llH· h]:JnlP wht'lt it he- longs, GiYC us good foud and w<·'ll ... in~ ~ongs l)f prai\e fm all the kill'ht•n el:tn. illduding- ehl'-f. y'underetan' Hey, Rollo? 0 0 () At·m~ \\'ithnut Ban.rw r'; AdvPn- tlll'l's l>f till' II·Ish \' uhlll('PI'l''-'- Et n~<· <Y:I!alh•y. l't•pita V Saeltvtli~· \A\,~·t ~(]rneday ~oznebudy \\Ill ~av ~£Hllt'- thing abcntt .:-<tUclPnt tt<\'tivit.tt>~ whiP.~l 'Tit<· ( iw >d Su<'iPt~ \\ •. til,., Li J?P· ' man. 1:-:n't :-;ornew!Jat botjng. And tht• .,d 1 - ._'\nat·ri<•a.'s Ye-st~I~th:.~~ F. .\lnrtiu t\J Dl ThP Conrcn dit•n:-::i..: ·.\ i:! i'•·.t~t.· Ut 0\\·u: InhJitrUttl{JJl about tht' being jt:·aimt:- of his rolurnnbt\. And l''llly PPtuvians. ~L-t~an.., and alt that Ut{)pinn tinle C'<Hl<'Ol'dil'n:-b \ztt·r\-. 1 PadHnP . .; .... ','\ 1 1 i t'XtPnd up to F1 ida\' •· 1 lt)Jt•riett.tl .:l-1 ntOJ'Y IO:tiJt·<·Ll by, 1 tfh·t 11 ' 1011 ~ ftJI' F~ 1 iday i..;:-::ue:-:. Bu't fl I • . · 1 1 ht·rn da.J-... J;o; VPt to c onu_.. ~u t•t11 \ ~l':--ttJil a colTPl'tt•~n f)f btts! 11 · . • t•t tJJ':..toJir·al mfuiiWl~Jon fl''lll \a-' g-not J~ no\\\. Ut>PIUlH' l'ru fini:-:hed. JhJtJ...; f;trnilutJ' :-::oullt'!-3 H. :II.::'\. CH-ARLES COBURN \ The Director of the Mohawk ~ Drama Festival in his First \ Motion Picture Role! I rn~~~tr~M. ~, Prize-winning title of MGM's \~ \Benefits Forgot\ , ~ WALTER HUSTON ~ JAMES STEWART '\ BEUL.Ali BONDI • GUY KIBBEE 2nd Feature in \The Kid Comes Back\ Morris s E 0. ':; J: : .. · -·· l\\ •i: ·'· i! I:: !I I j :, In ,, lp 'll ~ I I \\.'i \' ., 11. '.l ... 'l' ,,, 17 In !ll ., ~ I J '; ,,, ... 'I .J •l 'I ·r , L !l ll .\ I tl t• ,,

Hou.se ive respite air to two cam- • The Idol zed into ac- asn't ekcel- but at least Spring and worth no- of im- As for e is ra thc•r it than in era tive note .. -; his poc-tn t~lBte. and .the Jt>n rl; hi>' ll<>n t ef£ect . rne Vt\C re a nH·rit :-;flt i- Idol edi- ion for the me ta·Ik of now ur le~b contention doc:; cxbl ·at Dt!:>pite sale of of Rosen & for nigh 50 y afternoon) rubability be Wodehouse write a a:; the gloomy Cump. medium effozts. It n1uch the present the cui- have a nlag- 1, with plenty Mcrnbczs aes who can submit it Depps, terati .<hould medium. The should be a~ And between should be a 0 the Hale last column is dem- verse fel- by natme of poem: Mill shall we do? Hale Hou.se did he Smile? to bile. the blame, ness just the a crack Mrs. Mac. at his com- derstand should be so Slum. where it be- we'll sing clan, 0 will say some- which And the edi- wlll cease And Concor-dienSis up to Friday issues. But to come. So I'm fi.nished. H. M.S. Sebring Describes Education,. Work· of Dirck Romeyn · Descendant Prepares First Manuscript On Life Of Founde,. (Continued f1om Page 1) Dl! ck Ilomcyn w:u; born in New .1 Barbadoec; New Jersey now Hack- 1 cn~ack, uJ{ Ju.nu~uy 12, i7-H, the ~un ·I of Ciaes, or Nicholas Romeyn, and Ilachd Vreeland!. The record of his Liz th wu.~ ~ntCJ cd a;; follow~ in the old family Bible b~· hiB father: \:!l;1yn .>uun Dc1 k Romine is gcboz en in het je:.z ~eventien hontl:erd en vier en viertig de twaalf yaneware\ He wu.B gzauuatt: flum the C()lh.:g~' ()f New Jezsey, now PI'inceton Uni-· , . .,J\it)o· in 1765, in the ;;ame class a;:; Ik. Jonathan Edwa1ds, who later, through Romeyn':; influence, be-· ~ame the .>ccund !Hc~iJcnt ·of Eniun. C'ollege in 17B9. Three Phases of Life Romeyn's life was divided into three distinct phases, the last of which has the most significance for. t \niun College. The ftbt pha~e \\~ one he can ied th1 oughcmt ·his life, nAmely his work on behalf of church unity. This involved \the in- fusion of liberal ideus into an ultra- conservative organization, and sep- aration f1om the con~eJ·vative and old-world domination of the moth- t•r church in The Nethe1·land:;.\ The ~econd phase of his life is that of the start of hit\ mini~try in the combined chu!'ch of Mnrbletovm. Rochestei. and ·wawa-r·~ing, in Uls- ter County, New York Colony, in 1766. During .the War of the Rev- olution he hPld the pastorate of the RE>formP<l rhurch in Hackensack and Schraalenburgh. New Jersey. 11'0 mwhich he was forced to flee with his family by the Briti5h, who referred to him Fls \The RebE'l Par- Union College The phase of his career that i:o most impo1tant to us began with his acceptance in 1784 of the pas- torate of the Dutch Reformed Church in Schenectady. Almost im- mediately there is evidence \in the Minutes of the Consistory of the Reformed Church plans for the founding of an 'advanced school', or academy\. It was opened in 1785. The efforts of Dirck Romeyn in behalf of higher learning were the fulfillment of a thwarted desire to found a seminary in New Bruns- wick and also the popular desire to found a college here named after Governor George Clinton, in 1779, which never got beyond the prep- aration of a proclamation by the governor. \Ten years later, on the night of Febl'uary 25, 1795, the windows of the old academy building were ablaze with candlelight,\ for the charter for Union College had been granted by the Regents for the Uni- versity of the State of New York, of which Dr. Romeyn was now a member. THE CONCORDIENSIS) FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1938 VIEWS OF THE .ROMEYN FAMILY BIBLE A surprise at this morning's exercise was the donation of the ancient Romeyn Bible, printed in 1738, in which appear the birth records of Dirclt Romeyn and tlr.e memb-et'S of his immediate family. Above are shown the first pages, the. title page, the age-worn cover !Wld the haud-wl'itten records of the family. The bock was presented to the college by Colonel Cha.l'les Annesley Romaine, U.S. A., through. the Seb1•ings today, and will be :kept in the college library. P\edders Vie With Jleeders In Sending Sons to Union \Come sing about a ba.nd of Dutchmen\ is one of Union's most popular songs and in the early days of Union this college was· a Dutchman's land. Ved- ders vied with Veeders and fer- tile Schermerhorns during the first hundred years of Union's history to see who eould send the most students to this col- lege. The Scbermenwrns won, hav- ing sent 22 of their offspring here between the years of 1797 and 1899. The Van Vechtens sent 15, the Van Renssela.ers 13 from 1802 to 1774, the Ved- ders 20 from 1799 to 1921, the Veeders 22 from 1804 to 1923. Wyatt Announces Letters of Timothy Dwight Reveal Sub- Frosh Plans Physical Aspects of Dorp in 1:797 Fraternity Committee Helps In Preparation of Program A tentative program for sub- freshman weekend has been drawn up by Frederic A. Wyatt with the collaboration of a committee of fra- ternity rushing chairmen. It is an extensive program intended to en- tertain the sub-freshmen and ac- quaint them with Union College. The weekend will be that of March 25 to 27. By ROBERT H. FERGUSON Schenectady as lt was about 1797, a \compact\ town with some 5,000 inhabitants and one or two paved streets, is described in a letter by Timothy Dwight, famous president of Yale College and author of \Theology Explained and Defend- ed\ which is included in the bio- graphy of Dirck Romeyn prepared by his descendant Lewis B- Sebring. this place in 1792, a number of tbe old houses have been pulled down, and a great number of new ones built in the English style. Should this spirit increase: their wealth, which is still considerable, may be- come an active capital and restore to Schenectady a part of its former prosperity. \The morals of the inhabitants, particularly of the inferior classes, are, extensively, upon a low scale. Among other causes, is this one: Pag-e Three Quest for Picture Of Dirck Romeyn Led :(() Biography Se'brings' Search for Data On l'ounder Takes Many Months The hi:;tmy uf the ~eazch by Lcwi~ B. 'Sebz ing, '9:?, and Lnd< R Sebrin;;, Jr., '23,. fur information un ·Dil\.:k I1l·•lla:yn .b in n~~~·;f a 11 u~· detective story. Challen;;ed by the reference to TIUfilC,:')ll b.::.t .)\L'~!l a:_ 11 lTnjtlf.1°t- n1·tjol my~tery,\ the ·Sebring:;, hi.o dc,-cend- ants, begJ.n their inquity with a ,et.Hch fur :1 jJlctUI't' uf thei1· arH·•·,o- tor. Requests directed to members of other branches of the family met 11\\ith no ~UCCP~~. ~0 the opnrrh was widened to takP in librarieB, nrt collection\ nn<l :'PV<'ral old p1 in! shop~ in New York which mnk~ a spccia l·ty of en rly AmPriC'n n poz- tmlt.o. ~till no pi<'ltll<' of Rnn'<'Yll was to be found. Princeton University, his Alma Mater, and Rutgers and the New Brunswick Seminary, where he once had taught. were combed for clue,;. Although some sugg<>ctinns for bio- graphical mate1 ial wpr·e founJ, no picture was forthcoming. Pidure :Sot Found Hope had been almost abant!uneJ when Sirnun Scherruerhurn, nterubcr of an old SehL\nectat!y fumily, re- ported last Novembez th:.t he re- called having seen a pictwe labeled \Rev. Dircl~ Homeyn\ in a Guildei- land farm ·house about thirty years ago. An ex.peditiun, sent p<•;.;te-haste tu locate the farmhuu:se, arrived to find the former fuz nbhing., wei e no longer there. Dii ecled by for- mer occupant:>, the searching party intuviewed the Albany dealer to whom the fu1·niturc had been sold a quarter-century bcfo1c, with no re:oult. Here the quest fo1· a pic- ture of Romeyn wa:; temporarily ended. While searching for a picture, however, the Sebrings had kept an eye open for biographical material. Assisting them was the Rev. W. N. P. Dailey, '84, of Schenectady, whose bibliograph~· of references to Romeyn formed a nucleUB for fur- ther material. Heirlooms Gathered As various references were ex- amined, further clues appeared, and the search became broader. Material relating to other members of the Rorneyn family was gathered; es- pecially valuable was the will of his son, the Rev. John Brodhead Romeyn, who at his death was pas- tor of the Cedar Street Presbyterian Church in New York. References in this wiil to certain possessions of Dirck Romeyn led to their ac- quisition and presentation to the college. Non- Sectarian Founding of Union On Friday, the tlrst day, the sub- . freshmen will have dinner at 6:30 While traveling through tbe Mo- hawk Valley, Dwight was forced by heavy rains to spend three days in Schenectady . He sa;:ys \we had no reason to regret o0ur delay.\ Dwight met \three gentlemen, in whose company we found not a little pleasure\ Dirck Rorneyn, Dr. John Blair Smith, p:resident of Union at the time, and the Rev. Robert Smith, pastor <>f the Pres- pyterian Church. The merchandise, which passes into the Western country, is usually embarked, here, on the Mohawk. Of course, the numerous boatmen, employed in transporting it, make this their place of rendez- vous; and few collections of men are more dissolute. The corrup- tion, which they contribute to spread among the ordinary inhab- itants, is a greater. evil than a stranger can easily imagine.\ Among the heirlooms, in addition to those located through this will, is the Homeyn Bible, originally owned by Dirck Rorneyn's father, Claes Romeyn, and long in the pos- session of Dirck. It was traced through a reference in an old copy of the Record of the New York Genealogical and Biographical So- ciety, and discovered in the posses- sion of Miss Nino Rorneyn of Wash- ington. R .ez t p t • t • S • • t f , 1'7 ~ p. m. at the fraternity houses. At et 1 ec S a fl 0 lC p t rz () I{/ ,7:30 p. Dl, they will see the inra- . ·mural boxing and wrestling matches By EDWARD RETARTYCK When the Boa1•d of Trustees of the Academy of tbe Towne of Sche- nectady, meeting with citizens of Albany and surrounding counties in 1794 inserted in the!r petition to the Board of Regents for a charter to found a college a clause insuring non.:sectarianism, they chose to give dominance to one of two major forces of the period which colored all their thinking. The years follow- ing the Revolutionary War were one of intense nationalism and no where was Chauvinism more pro- nounced than in the Mohawk Val- ley. It had played a strategic part in the war for Independence and its inhabitants were very proud of having successfully defended their homes. They had already en- thusiastically en visioned a prosper- ones of intense nationalism and no before their eyes and were enjoying the prodigious bounties of the earth even as they watched family upon family march westward through the valley from New England by wag{)n and bateau. Schenectady was com- ing in for measure of the trade en- gendered by the settlement and ex- ploitation of the land of Western New York. The boat industry was coming into its heyday and the lit- tle town was serving as a shipping center f{)r the products of the west. Ministers, leaders had to be trained to administer to these pioneer set- tlers, and the practical burghers of Schenectady were determined that such an institution would be estab- lished. The other force was that of mili- tant denominational religion. After the war there was a sharp reaction from the radical and mundane French rationalism and Deism which had gained wide currency. The churches were gathering in converts wholes·ale by means of re: vivals. Schenectady was affected and its many denominations were enrolling members. at the gym, followed by reception at The choice of the first by the Bale House. committee was caused by a desire A.ctivities on Saturday to use the coilege to help develop . Most of the activities will take the vast resources of the valley- place {)ll. Saturday. Visits to classes \to make the institution of im- and laboratories at 8 a. m. will be mense importance to science in the first item on the day's program. these parts of the United States.\ .At 1(} a.. b. the freshmen will be Another impulse which made for greeted at daily assembly in th<;l non-sectarianism was the difficulty Chapel. Visits to the classes and in raising money. There was much laboratoriees will then be resumed jealousy among the various sects until 11 a. m. An Inspection of the which existed in the valley. Tbe American Locomotive Company will Academy established in 1785 was follow until noon. After luncheon at dominated by the Dutch Church Hale House the sub-freshmen will which donated the building where view a House of Magic exhibit at the students met. The provided their 2 p. m. at the General Electric gifts on the condition that if a col- Company. From 3:30 to 5 the vis- lege were established the president itots will again revisit the labora- would be a member of the Dutch · tories. The :film, \George Goes to Church and the tuition charge would 'union,\ will be shown in the Old go to the church and would be given Chapel at 5 p. m. Dinner at the to the indigent students of their various chapter houses will follow designation. Their many and fre- at 6:30. The day will culminate with quent petitions for a charter to the attendance of the sub-freshmen the Boa1d of Regents were not ac- at the Mountebanks production, cepted on the ground that the Acad- \Criminal Code.\ emy had insufficient fun.ds to main- On Sunday the visitors will at- tain a college, Thus, the Board of tend the 11 a. m. Chapel setvice, Trustees bad. to seek aid from the and at 12:30 will have dinner at city and surrounding settlements Hale House and at the fraternity of the .north and west who were houses. asked to \patronize the establish- Besides the aid of the fraternity ment of the college and to support rWJhing chairmen the alumni have it.\ Each d.enmn.ination: none of been instrumental ip. contacting and which wa.s powerful or rich enough interviewing the sub-freshmen, and to sponsor its own institution, were many of .them also plan to visit the forced to ·Co-operate. They were campus during this weekend. gracefully willing to have a college transcend denomination beliefs pro- viding it bullted for the common good by being dedieated to the ad· vancement of the valley in which they were all vitally Interested. The clause in the petition was stricken out when it was reviewed by the · Board of Regents and was not included in the charter which was finally granted in February, 1795, but the college nevertheless continued. under that ·basis. Nation- alistic and economic i11terests had won. ---a--- Dr, Cummins Returns Dr. Earl E. Cummins will re- turn to the campus Friday after- noon after an absence of nine weeks during which time he under- went treatments for a spinal In- jury in the New England Baptist Hospital, B<>ston, Mass. It is ex- pected that he will rest for a few days after his return and resume teaching sometime next week. After a brief description of its location, he says of tl!e town of Schenectady itself, \The houses are chiefly ancient structures of brick, in the Dutch styE:e: the roofs are sharp; the ends toward the street; and the architecture un- couth. A great number of them have but one story.\ Schenectady gained its wealth from the fur trade With the In• dians, says Dwight, but the Revo- lution and the settlement of the interior ended this. H:owever, the \Inhabitants have begun to throw off the burden of diseouragement, under which they haYe long la- bored, and to apply themselves to other business with considerable success. Since I passed through Dwight describes Union College, which at that time ·boasted a fac- ulty of one president and four pro- fessors, 41 students, and a \philo- sophical apparatus, lately pur- chased for 300 sterling, \enclosed in a three story\ leaden-coulored stone\ building. He notes of the fact that students roomed and boarded in the city: \This arrange- ment must, I think, be unhappy .•. the students, located in the college under the eye of their in- structors, would be secured from a multitude of evils, to which while lodging abroad, they cannot fail of being exposed.\ Glee Club Plans Further Concerts Trips to Binghamton, Albany Arranged as Well as Local Prog·ram Chemists to Hear Dr. Coca Draper States Position Speah: On Alergi~ Disease Of Idol in Assembly Talk As the Glee Club season gathers impetus and the club swings into extensive concert work, student in- terest in the organization seems to increase. The reason for this is obvious, according to those who were present when the college song- sters sang in the Waldorf-Astoria last Friday in their annual New York concert. The club has practiced intensively since its first mediocre perform- ances early this year. As a result, the numerous concerts planned for The 202nd meeting of the East- ern New York Section of the American Chemical SII'Ciety will be held on Wednesday, ::March 2, at 8 p. m, in the Alban;:y College of Pharmacy. The speaker at the meeting will be Dr. Arthur F. Coca. Medical DirectoT of the Le- derle Laboratories and founder and editor-in-chief of the .Tournai of Immunology, whose topic will be. \The Chemical Aspects of Al- lergic Disease.\ In 1932 Dr. Coca became Med- ical Director of the Lederle Lab- oratories. At present: be is also Clinical Professor of Medicine at the New York Post-Graduate Medical School of Columbia Uni- versity. In his talk Dr. Coca wiU d·iscuss the allergic diseases su~h as hay fever and bronchial asthma, a sub- ject which has been the cause of much debate in recent years; and contact Dermatitis such as poison ivy and otber plants, dyes, and chemicals. He will also discuss the technical chemistry jnvolvect in these disease10. Wednesday, Feb. 23-Speaking in the next two months are not anti- daily assembly this morning, Edson clpated with so much appreben- V. S. Draper, editor of the Idol,. slon as before. asked fo1· the cooperation of the The club members will be afford- student body in building up the ed. a short breathing spell this week- magazine and replied to the vari- end, after which the next concert ous criticism of the present issue will be held in Albany on March 4, by explaining the relationship of the when the students of both the boys' present book to the history and de- and girls' sections of Albany Acad- velopment of the Idol. erny will hear the group. The fol- Draper posed four questiollS' to lowing day the club will travel to the assembly and answered all four Binghamton, where a concert and in the light of the Idol's history .. <lance will be held on Saturday First Draper asked, \What kind of· night. Sunday morning, a gr:oup of a magazine should the Idol be? songs will be sung in a local church, What kind of a magazine is the and Dr. Tidrnarsh will give his an- Idol trying to be? What can we nual organ recital in the West Pt·c.s- print in the Idol? What does the byterian Church that evening. policy of the Idol gain for you? The established Mohawk Golf In defense of the magazine Drap- Club concert is set for April 29, er declared that there were many and the season will be capped off cheap magazines on the market with au appearance at the first an- containing fiction superior to the nual Apple Blossom Festival at writing of the usual college publi- Kingston, where the Union group cation and that the best field for will join the Schubert Club, the Troy student literary activity was in tbe Vocal Society, and several other description and naration of personal choirs to sing a group of numbers ·experiences or of i<leas of special under the leadership of Dr. Tid- interest to college readers. marsh.

A ill H:ilo• !lou.-•· tt I\ t' It'.'\' Jill t' I 1 l'--lt :ill t'o 1\\p v:IUl TIH• ldul 11111) :u ·:1-..ll.t t'Xt't·l I Ill I ·tt lt•,J .... t :-;tnltt- <trod Jt' \\Ill t I J 1\tl I at t· t t1 1111~ lt·d .. \... flit t' 1- f,d Lt I 1: til tll ]II I atJ\\t• :,11; 1 ~.1;- }\ wfJ I h i 11\1; t.t\ t t' • 1 t· .u.d tin ,, no!- lu ,.;}t•llf Pllt·,·T lltit' \\t'lt lilt J II _, I I .111 J,;,!j t•dl f,,: t ht tlllt' talk t•t !)lZllH'~, BUY\ llltllt' Ul h· .... ~ {'II!J•lPl!f 1011 dot·~ l'Xl:--.t at u,,.,1, I ,,.,pit\ ( tl'd :--:dt• ll1 td l{o.--t·Jl & I c n lll: .. dt .-lll 1\' :.tltPlllOUll J ,; II tJ't!Jl!J t Y bl· ~- \Vodl'hott:--t' UlHkl \\\1 itt_. :.-1 nt Htll:-- as tlw J\'al':-- ;..:.lo{'rny :-IHJ!t--..lghtl•d \':t ll<'t·d t 'orup lltt•d UJt•dJlUII tl dhJtt~. 11 t·n.-t\'l' n:u<\h t ht· Jll t'!\>t'llt ; Ji ~ l', lJlt' col- I i:,t\\l' .t Jl,:tg- \\11 L lJ.t•nt~ It':-, :\h·fllht! :· Lt:--;, \\no l .tn >Uld . uhmit it cLl~o:\' Dt•(p.~. !I vi ,tt j .-htlllld lUt d!UI11. 'Tht- :-.huuld !J<> a .... Alld hL'l\\ l't'l.l · :--:hould Lt· a III!•P11'l•ITI ''it' :11(' H tit· la:-t l'ulurun d b dt'!U ·vl'! :--t' tt I b). ll~llUI• td \ Jl }JOt-.!1 · :mu :--hall Wt· d,,·. 1 Hnk H111L·f dul ht· ~n.ilt·'' to h:lt· al't' thl· hl :g t.'. Jll.--t t ht· a l'l Ht'k C\!1 ~. :\Ia!' at hi:-: l'olll tl l'houl<i he ,.., ::\lunt. kill'ht•n <'hn. derstnn' hl? () \\111 :·mv :-Ulllt'- ivit It'~ whir>h g;. And till' l'<li- '.\ ::: i'••.t:-r• And Con cot dien:--b up to F1 i<Ja~· i..:~ue~ But to c on1e. ::-;,, l'lll liniched. H. :\1. 8. Sebring Describes. Educatioll, Work of Di1·ck Ro1neyn Ot·.~l\l'mlmll PrqJIII'I'.\ f.'ir:-;t Hm1.usai pt On U /(• (if fuumlt•r ~<'•~<t•nttt.: :l!i•Ju l);~~~ l1 J ~lll'k 1:ol!1t \ll \\ t~ l~ti!Jl ill :-.;,.\\' f;,tl!lt•:ll~.~. :\t.'W Jtt.\\t'\. IltJ\\ ll.ttk· ,;,:-,ttk t<!: ,l,J;,&t.~. 12.~1711. :l.t· -t•fl ••! (':ct• -. ul Xt, l1PI't Hcl!tt.·~ll, .tnt! !~ td, l \'tt'l. ll !t Tl.t• It·~ II] d ,,f hi~ !1.: 1 1 ! \\ 1,. t 'ft•Jt•d .1.~ fto}]to\\ :\\ il. lbt till t.tll!tl\' l:JI,;, \ .. i.t- t;d ht·[. ':\.]~·1· 'I •!' 1 ;, J h I!IJIL ,Jtlt' i .. _d) tit II 1 ll 't·•l Jl' II .\t'\'t>Ltit ll IJl ',It I ' 11 \'lt'Itlr-: 1\\; I I!! :• ,t!lt \\',tit' .. llt· \' .. 1~ :....:r.tdU dt· ftulll tile Cc.,Jlv-t· ••I Xt·\\' Jt•l:-t'\, nu\V P!llll't-tt•ll l'nt· ~~I ~i \ ill r;-t).\ lll tl't' .-.aflle d~t:o.:-­ t~ ll1.\ .ltt!L,'J.au l·:d\\atd:-, wbo l<ttt•l, !Hl'tJll;....h l{nllll·:-.n· .... llllitlL'lll'l', lJL·- 1' I!Jn· tilt' J\-l·{'tllHi ld*·.·ld\nt 11! l'nitJll · 'ollt·...!.t' in 17~l!l Th1 t'l' J'ha\\\ ul Uft• l{nflll'\ll·.· ltft> \\~t .. divh:t·d Into \~:Itt t.·I-tlllll pL.:t.-t-, O.l' l:t:--t ot ·' .• 11 !1 h._t. ... ti.L' tllo=-l ~l-ILIH'HIH t' lui 1 ~. 1un C't·llt·;.t·. ·rl;e tlt t }Jil:•rl' \\:,:- '::t• Itt• ~·:u !It'd t!llt1U.'. 1 t1Ut l!b ll1t•, 'Lltl;~·lr Li:-- \\(JJk Cd1 hL·half ot 1 ',\Jteh lli1Jty .. Thi:: ill\'t·l\t•d \tb£• 111- t.l:-tHll ot ltlJt·tal lllt>~~~ tnto an Ultl'a- ' t•TJ,\'( 1 \':ttl'\\[• tllg:tlllZitl J•JtJ. :tllti .:\'l'IJ· :I<ltitJll trt,Jll tlat· L'<lll:-t\l\'1tl\L' and .:d-\'.\ulld d·•:rllll:tt'HJJl t t tht• U11Jtll· 1 •l thllrth 111 'it~t· ::\:t·t: T!.t• -11'' r·l pl :t...:;,. , : 1!1:--: 1l:t· t:-- -j l ,I ~ .. ,J..!t ~VJ;:tU fn q:,~~.,.~d«;S<c.;,, ~\\\\~· .tl~~cft<·~·~:kfll. t}.,~~·~,;~rr-r,. ,.,., ~·~ .'• • .~ .. \\ TilE CONCORDIE:\SIS. FJUDAY. FEBitl'AI~Y 25, 1938 VIEWS OF THE ROtvf:f!YN FAMIL 'f SIBLE f': ftr tJnif'\'$W\t\\ 11 ';: ·,..u-a..,l;t,,., - .I' . ,I • J \ c' / ' ,.Jf/.•0 Quest for Picture Of Dir·ek /l(nneun Led to Biography Sdu·i11.,!! ,; .\it•a.n·!t j .,,. Oat a On Foruu/.,·o· Tuf,., ·' H /1.11;\' H Ulll\ ·\ Tl.t 1.· ·II I: .\' t• :'t·!:. l' '. . ': -·· ' :. 1 1 • I h I:. ~ l.• .'· : . • . t .,., 1 • I' J.. I!.' ,I l •• .. ' ,, ., :.• 1:\J:tt :·· tll' •I• J', 1 .. - • :. II ,I 1 '\ l' ' ..: ,, ~ ' •· ·' ! \ . :· I• ',\'I, \\' t;• }1' t l 'I ' 0 L 1 : ), } ''i· 111 :.:. \\' Y~~· i. .'.i. -J' { '( J I,' )' I ~ ~ I', .\ 11 ' ! I ,\,' .. , ~ I I : tr:t.Jt .. :....:~1: 1 I.•• Il• 'tl' ~.: f ... '' 'l.- tn h. !• 1\ll;d. Pr it.•·t :••n l'n,\'t'!.- , ... ~I:t 1 t·J, .t11c! I:ut~ll- :.·~ :r, l!run wi··k :'•·IJill.a::\ .. -., f, !t' l, ' I r! I 't'! _ ' t \', t l t 'Ill lit '• ' ,\It tJI '11,..: !. ;\' •tt J t' -11 ..... ~ t t 1' i ~ ,- : l' I' - .:UlJ1r:J1:tl IL't't•l!a] '\\•!1 pJ('IU1 t \\:t~ f,,, tl:c·on1 n...: l'id.un• ~ ot Fnund '·'' l!uJ\' ', 1 d i~t 1'!'. 't.I!Il' · t l.h ll•:• '!• • 4 \\~ .. II ~iII • •L ~~ · .•! t!.f ·r 1 .. 11:. It1• !J ),, : \f . n <. <! ~. 1 •• ~. •• , • : ::, f::o J•lllt•·d h.-• :'\P'\1'~! ~ •• ' ·~ tt 1:1 I• tl'••d ha\·in~ ..... • t! ' t ·'~'I~ 1 .!., }f d ''l :. \'. I )I: j 1). I •. lJJ,• \ '1 .. 1:: ,t I i ,,: . :.·: •tl•! ftl~! :.11~1 r· ;~~1•1::' ·~II'\ ~·' 1 .- 1 1', ..t\•: •·Xj•~\dll'l••l: • ·~' l·'''\' • ! 't '•· '1at (•t t:.P -.t:trt .. t t.i: n:JnJ:.tJ\ 111 t .t· ('! nnh111 t··t dn1:' h (' f .:\1·.t hkt,·,\\ n Ht•dH·-t•!. :tnd \\'a,~.~!-!11:.>, Ill 1'1·- 'f·r· (~ount~. :\'P\\' Yt•: k ('t•lnn~. IP. llt;li I ll, •.• tL thP \\';u pf t !Jt• HP\· I , '1 hn ;1f I' f }lt• ; , '', ] I· J t , , ; , \• t 1 'I I , 1 l1l•i '\t• f(J!!Jlt'l ltl.J-',!._· \\•!·· no ]t•n-·c·I- tLf•!f· I•:·\'\: t.\ • .)uti••:~ t• 1,, ld t} .. t:J:-~o]:Jtc· <•f tLP tilt I '\' IJP'tllt .... tl.t, --· L I •.. I' t ,11 , '\' ,t• \\I'.; t 1 .t' ..,\: t I If:\' ,t'l I~~·tt,rt.~·! lhul<h m Hal'kPlh:tel<' 'till; ~·.:whJ a:tl\l:huJ;...:l. . .\:t'\\' .lt•J:--P\\ :I I 1 Jr1\\ bit' h J1t' \V,l ..... f111 ted t 0 fh:t' witl1 bi...: t·tn:t1y hy th•· f~!ltl~ll. \Vb1• tt·ft·ut·•' ttl !dw :~. .... TL•· Et·lwl P:u· .d:un1 t Lt• furnitar. ~ ·~·· l·· t n ~••:tl It llll'IJTt'!-lt\t:!ttr:. h·'•lll', \\;th Jj() ·O!l.\ I !t -tl.t. II.~,,. f.~ I' •pit .-t l••: .t t•i('- fll!!' t•f I!ttlllt:~ :. \', ,- :t·ll·J••If tti!y I • ndP(l l nion ('oil..-~•· : .. flu·· phtt~t· 11f hi~ l'<Jl t'l'l I hat b J 11.1 •:\t t~r:J•• ~r t ·tilt t11 u:--: l·•·,...:.an With , · 1.~ .l't'P}It:tn ·t· in l~\q (,f tht- pa:-· I ·~q .tf£> 11f t!:t· Dntf·h Hrf(lnrH·d I : 'h lllt'll tn ~l lH·Ilt'( t.ady . .Alrno:-:t in1~ 't't'•!t:tte~Y t!.l·'l'P 1~ e\·i(il•nre \in the ~linu:(•s 'ot thp Cunsi>tury uf the '!t·lnt nit·d l'hut c:h plan~\ for the !uUtH!It~,:...: <Jf an 'tttivann.·tl. ~ehoul', ·•I aLadL'Ill\ '_ It \\a:- upent.•d in A surprbe at thh lllornin~·~ l''Lt'I'ebe 11 as t.hP donation .,f the aneient Ronll'~·n IUhll•, prin tt•tl In 1 i3S, in \\ hiel1 llJl)lPlli' tlw hirth l't't'Ol\d-; of DirPi{ It IIIli<'~ n and thl• lllP!lllll·t·s uf his imnH'<llatt• family. Ah<IH' ar!\ •hown tlH• lint Jlll~t\><. tht• t.itl(\ pa~t·, tiH• agt'·\\ ot·n l'll\(\1' alUI t.tlf• luwd-\\l'iltt'll l't\I'Ol'U' of tht• fallliiJ. The hnok \Ill,., )Jrest•nt•·t.l to tht• eollt·~:·· h~ ('olont•l CllarJc, ~\nm•,It·y ltom:tilW, c. s .. \ .. tlu·oug-h thP !'!\bring-;; today, and will !w l;a·pt i11 the collP!W library. I \\'il•h· ~··:u• hi' !· r \ J•ktHJ•·. h•J\\•·\t'I. t:.t• !\'' l11tn ... Lad l'\l'f•' ~111 flYl' ''P~~n f11r bio-'t'.J•lli{\al Illall'!ia1. 1 .\.--;•:in~ th..t11 \.\ 1'1\·.l:n \\' :-.:. P D.tll•y. '' 'f ~··* ··:t•, • 11h, 17~~1 . ~na· t>!ttl!t:...: (If Dirck Ronlf'\'ll in lwh.lt ()f h1glwr lC>aJntng WPl:--e the lll!ldl!lll'nt or a Unvartcd de~ile to 't!lllld .t :o-:PrtiJn uv 111 Ne\v Bruns- ~\ it k and ;Jbo t h~ JJopular dPedJ e to ~ound a l'o11~·~-:t• ht\H· narnPd aftt 1 t ';( •\'t•t nor l;<·or~r Cllnt on, in 1779, •. iJ,dJ '\ \ t'l gut bt•y!Jl]() the prep- •l':ttlon of a p!udatnation by tht~ . \\l't not. ~·T,·n \l\C:.il!'- lutt•t, un the night of 1---t~htuat~\' :!.~,. 17i-J;,, tht' window.~ of ·Jt,. ol<i aLI.d<·my buildin~ wen• ·hiazp with randlelig!tt,\ fot the dt.lltPI fo1 1Jninn ('{}11Pgt 1 had bPen c. 1tl1tl'<l by the Hc•,.:t·nt' fol the Uni- ·:,.1-ity of tlw ~t·;te of Xew Yorl<. • f \\·hwh Dr·_ I{(JllH'Yll wa~ now a 'Jit·ntbN I \Conw dng about a band of Dutchnwn\ i:; unt 1 of C'nion·~ mo.;;t populat song,; and in the early d!ty~ of Cnillll thi.~ coll<'ge was a Dutchm .. n's land. Vet.!- dt~t s vied with Yt'f'dPrs antl fC'J ~ tile Schetme1 h01 n~ dUJ ing the tlr,;t hundred yea1B of Cnion',; hb1ury L!l :-et ... whu could send the mo,-t stn<h·nt.;; to thi~ col- lege. The ;o:;ellE;\llllPlit•nn~:- \\on, hav- in~ ~ent 22 uf the it' offspring l:en~ bet \\C<.:n the years uf 1797 and 1899. The Van VPchten>< ~l'nt 15. the Van J{ens~Plat>t s 13 f10m 180~ to I77·1, the Ved- der;; 20 from 10\l~l to 1V21, tlw Veede1,. 22 from l&u4 tu 1!J23. ! Fratemity Committee Helps' In Preparation of Program .. Bv ROBERT H. FERGL'SO~ -~ of Dorp • zn 1797 flchenectmly a~ It wa;; about 1797, this plan· in 17~2. a number of the a \t•ompn<'l\ town with son1e 5.0u() I ult.l huus.:·s have been. pulled down. inhabitant,; and on•' or two paved and H ;;reat number of ll<'W o1ws ~tn·<'l~. i; dt•>rt·iht>d ln a letter b1·. built in the Bng!Jsh style. 81wuld ---- i Tinlo ... thy Dwight. fan1ou~ pt(\siden.t t:11~ ~~~~~i~. inctea~~e .•. ~heir \Vf'~tlth, ! A tentative p!llgram fUJ sub- of Y alP College and author of I\ h1clt lo \till constdczable, rna .• be- ! ft e~hman weekend has hP<'n th awn \Theolo;..:y ExfJiai lll·ll and llc>fl'nt\- cun;e an active cap1tal a1!d re>tOJ e . . , ,.tl\ which is included in the bio- tu Schen.:ctady a part of Its fotmer 111p by l•l'l·dPII<' A. \\yatt w1th t.h<:>l glaphy of Dil•·k RnmPyn prepar~d pt.~,;;perity. . . . n•llaholllt ~<•n Dt a r·ommlttPe of fra-. by hi\ <lt•>rPndant Lewis B. S•·blin·~. The mu1 al.s 01 the mhabJtants. te1nitv ,u,h.ing chairnwn. It 1,.; an' \\.hi!<' trnvc·lmg; thtough th•· :\In· fJmtitularly of the Inferior classes, PXtt•n;iw prog-ram intc·nded to en- hnwlt \·alh•y, Dwi~ht ''a:-: fnl<'f'li ate, •·Xten.ively, upon a lu\:' scale. by hPa\'Y rain~ to ~PL'lHl thrt·t'\' day~ Among uther cau~l'S, 1~ this une. te1tain the sub I1rshmen and ac· in Sch~nt•etady .Hl' ~ay~ \\('c had The merehar;dtse, which passes , quaint them \\ltlt Union Colle~c. 11 \ 10 .. ,., 011 tu rL';.(IN 0 u1 delay.\ mtu the \\e;,;teJn country, 1s , Tb\ \\l'PI;;:l'nd w1n be that of :\latch Dwight nu•t \three g<•ntlemen. in usually embarket.l, hell', on tlll' 1 25 to 27. whn>t' l'ompany Wl' found n<•t a :\lohawk. Of cou1se,. the numerous :'i..\ S t • V d • f TT • I !ttl<' plt•a>'Ul e··, Dirc~k Rom<')'n. Dr. bu.1tmen, er.npluyed tn ttansportmg 1 \fiOn- ec arzan .L' oun zng 0 u Ul01l I On Fn<lay. the lild da~. the ~ub- John Blair Smith, pl esido•nt of It, make till> th~Jl' plat;e uf rcndez- ' fl<'>hmen will have dinner at 6:30 'l\nion at the timP. and the Rei•. vou:;; and few collcctwns of men Re j!lects Patrt\ott•c Spl~rl\t of '1'76 'p. Ill. at the fratelnity houses. At Robel'! Smith. pastor of the PieS· a.lc mot·e dissolute. The. cmrup- lt II i i·3U p. rx1. they will ;,;pe the ima· byterian ChUJeh. twn, wh1ch they contnbute to ___ ___ tlltll'al boxing ant! wreotling; matches ·After a hi id de,.;cliption of ils ~pre ad among the O·J dmat y inhab- Uy EIH\'.-\ltD Ia;TAI~TYCH. • at the gym, folltowl'd by reception at lueation. he mys of the town of 1tants, IS u .:;reatcr· evil than a wtwn the Board of Trustees uf i The choice of the lilst by the llale House. Ekhenectady its<\lf \Th~ hou\\\' sttangl'r can easiJ~· imagine.\ the Aca<lemv of the Towne of Schf'-· C'ommitt~e was l'HUc<'d by a t.Ie,ile, Acti\'ities on l-\aturclay arf' chiefly ancient structurPs of Dwight desc1ibcs Cnit>ll College, llP<·twl~·. ll,;.,.lin~ with citizens of' to use th<' eollpge to help develop 1 :\!u~t of the artivitit\~ Will tak<· blirk, In lht> Dutch stvle: the !'O<l[S v.hich at that time boasted a fac- . h t \th II aJc> shaiJI: thl• ends. tuw,.rd tlw ult,· of Oll<\ 111rsidPnt and four plo- .\lb:,ny and ~utrounding l'UUntieB tn t llo vas It>~uutc.L·~ ~J.L • e va ey I place on Saturday. Vi~it~ tu elu.stiC~ \ 178·1 in-.•rtt d in theil petition to. \to make the m;;tltutwn of 1m- and labnnltorie< at 8 a. m. will be stteet: and the architect \II e un- fessms, H ,tut.lent;, and a \.phi!o- thP Ho:l! r! of P.e~ents for a char.tf'r: men,;e im.pOitanee, t.u \cienc·e· .. m 1 the fir,.;t item on the day's p1Dgram. ··nut h. \\ ,.:Hat numbl'l o[ thE'm suplueal apparatus, lately pur· to found a collc~t· a elau~e msutmg· thrse p'ut .... of the l:miPd Stat'\·. 1 At 10 a. b. the ft·e,;hmen will be have but one story.\ chased fm 300 ste1ling, \enclosl'd l'<Jlh-cl'l:n ian ism, they eho.~e to giv~ Anothe1·. m1pul~e wh1ch m~H.l.e lor gteetct.l al daily a>'>'L'mbly in the Schenechdy g-ained its Wl'alth i 111 a th1ee ~tory·· tcaden-eoulored ,:ominance tn one of two majot non-s~~tmtani\m wa.s the dtffiCulty Chapel. Vi>'il,: to 11 ,e claso£'s anti froin t.hc fur trade with the ll~- i stone\ bUilding. He note~ of the :ulces of the pel iud which colo! ed 111 r'Ul:'ll1~ money. There was much Jaboratul i••es will then be resumed dian\. \\~\\ Dwi~ht, but thl' Ill' YO- I fa.l't that studPnts rnomet.l and :tll thl·il tlHnldng The yeats follow· jra~nu,;y anwn\. the various sech until 11 a.m. An inspection of the lutinn and th<> \\tt!Pmrnt 11f th•· b .. ,udt'tl Ill the Pity. \This arrangc- m.; th•• Ikl.'o!ution, 11 y \Var· wc 1 e whwh exl,terl 111 th1• \'alley. The A . I . C . 11 int•·nor t•IH!t'u thi~. Howf'Vl'r, th(' llll'nt llHI>t, I think, be unha.ppy Draper States IJositio11 \'I\ ,,f ,·,tt\l1.-l' 11',ttl.lJil,'tiisrn an(! no Academ.v (•,tabli-I!Pd Ill 1785 w.t~ nwn<'an ,.oeumoll\'-f''' olmpalny \\1 \Inhabitant\ have bPgun to throw tJJl' students, located in the , , _ , fullo>' t.11t1 noon \ ter unc leon at ff h b 1 f cl' , t , 11., d. h · · whn·e wa.• Cl:auvini:;m more pto- dominated by the Dutch Church' H·' H u-: th ·ub frc<hmen will o t r urc en D r~couraeemen • l'u I g<' un cr t e eye of their m- ll( •tll'C\tl than 1.11 tl•,rt ~.lohawk Val· whiPh don•ted the bulltlin\ whele .'lie 'H' .e ef\'\- . , h'b' I nnli<'l' whwh they have lntlg Ia· stluetols, would be serurrd from .• , , ' ... v1ew a ow:e o ..... ag1c ex 1 1t at b 1 1 . 1. th 1 • , l a 1 · 1 f ·1 · ;(•y. It lnd pbyeol a sttat'q;ic part thl' t'tUtlent~ nwt. The JH'OVided their .., t tl' G I Bl ·t .· nl rc. an< tn .1pp ~ C'tnl\~ ve:;; n mu tJtll< (' n evJ s, to whtch, 111 thP wa 1 for Ind<'J>cndcnce nnd <'ift~ on the condition that if a col- C~ P !11. aF .e 3 3gn~\\ th cc tic other bu;;ine,:,- with con:;;lderable. whill' lod~ing abroad, they cannot leg~ werf' r.;tnbli<hed the prC'.;iclent . umpanyl. IO!ll : .. 0 1 ·' 1 cbVI>'- sur<'Pss. Si.nr<' I passed through fa1l of being exposed.\ Jto inlwbitJnt< \\'I'H I'<'IY proud of · ' · · lltOIS w1! agam reVISit t 11.: a ora· ____ _ !:avin:' successfully dPfended their would be a mem?~r of the Dut~h tories. rhe film, \George Goeo to ',\~.ll·••l,!Jl]j .....!! tJ 1 .y • :'It f• I• ;,. , !•, H(tnlt·\'n folf1H d ~~ nta-:l'!t.:-- ftll fut- !!~t·l' ll1ateti:d. n .. irl<llllll~ Ga.t!u•rt·<l _A.,. ,-~llitll.l:-. t t'ft·Jt•J1('( ..... \\'t'l p t \:- a ruin hi, :ur:htr· dllt'.- :q~)'' tlf\·d. :tllti tht.· :-.t•:t!C'h l'P(ana\ hz~·~u1~·r . .:\lt~•·Jial n~btil:...!:\ tn nfl.t>l nH·ttlia•I-. nf t}~p Hon1eyn fan11!y wa~ :...::·tth· · t>d; l'.-- pPcially valnahlf' \'\·'~ th•· \\ :il 11f ht:4 ~on, the H.t'\.\. J11hn J!nH!i:t·:td Romryn, who at hi' dC'·•th \'\·' 1'·'\- toroftht· (\•d:tt ~tr·Pt\'t Plt-~1,-.tt·tl:ill Church in ~~·\v Y(nk. l~t·f;•H·t:t t'e- in thi~ \\.'ill tD C'l'l t.tin (H>.~:-t·:--:-i(lr .... uf Dn·ck P.onwvn J,.d to th<'ll' al'- qubittDn :tnd inf'~('ntatilln tn tl~t.· C'olle-ge. An1on~ the hC'illontu:-!. in nd{htir.n t11 th~~~r lnf'atf.•d t.h1ou...:h thi:-: \vil;, i~ tb~ TiuntP\.'11 I~thiP, I•! l:..:n~:tll~ nwn(\d by Du.C\lt I1otnt~l .. - ! 111.1 t. C1aP:-i RonH ... yn. and !1111;.,: in tht· pt•-· :-t'\~ion nf Dir'ck. l1 v.. 1 ... tta•••d throu)!. h n t <\'fPt Pnn• in a11 (lltl c·· ~J•Y of the P.ccr11d of tlw );\•'' y.,, k (ienflaln!!'ir:i.l and 1:1•1g1 t],hir·-tl ~·~· c-iet:y. (111d di~('O\'!'lf d in t:.l' t•c•.~ .. , .... .-i11n of J.l1~~ Xilltl I~~~nl• )11 {If \\ .. t:--L- in;::::ton. --- ~-o Glee Club Plans Further Concerts Tl'ip~ to Bingh11111ton. Albany Ananged as Well as Local Program A..: the- \;lt•P CJnh -..:,., .... , n ~~-,n .•. r-.: impPtll:::: and the· cluh ... ,\.111..:: ... i''t11 PXh:·n;-:ivt., f'nnct•J t \\l k. \' 1 li•·• t~t ltt- t\tP:-t in tlw cq,...:~\11!/\lt!Pn -r·PBJ!\ tn inrrpa...:~\'. ThP l'f'a::-cln for tt'J.~ i:-: nb\·im .. l:o:. a.< rot1lin....:: to thcJ~t· \\'h11 \\(•r I' Jtll~.~\nt \Vhl'n 'L·· !'fl;}f 1 ~t· .-•ltU..:;- ··:tPl'~ :-:a lH! in tlw \\\aldnt t-A . ...:t• 1 1a ln.•t F1id:.y in tlwir ~mnunl \•'W Ynrk ,•oncert. l.«me~. Tht•y h:ct! aheady en- Chtuch and the tmtwn chargP v.~u1.tl 1 L'nion,\ will be shown m thl' Old Che1nists to Hear Dr. Coca . LtL-ia.~ti<'ally envi«llll!t'd u p!uspet· ~()to lh~ chUII han.! would be giY•·n Chapel at j Jl. Ill. DinllL'l at the ~peal{ On t\let'gi·c I)t's\a\. e •·liP~ of int<>n;e nationalism nnd no to the mdtgent .student.:< of t.hl·tr I vatious chaptm houses will follow 0 \ ~ \' Of Idol in .lssembly Talk Tl:t> dub ba~ IHactit·t·d itttt•n:--h·Piy :--in,·t' it .. ~ fir.-t na••li•H II' pt>l f,H ru- nners e:11ly thi.- p·a.l'. ,\~ a 1 <'>Ult. the numeJ\(I\1:-::: ronC'PI ts plannt~d for the llt·xt t'\\·o IHontbs u·p not anti- cipalP<l with ><> llltll h \Jll•ll'itt·n· \ion ao: hcfolP. lwfu1e thr•h eye,: and we1e enjoying dcstg;natwn. Their many and fie· at 6:30. The dav will !'Uiminate with thl• Jll<HllgioU< bountie.:< of the calth quent petition\ for a chartel to the Hltl'tldancc' of the sub-fleshmen ThP 202nd mePtin:' nf thl\ E~si­ P\'en a> the:'>' watcll('d family upun the Boa!d of HPgl'lll,: WC'le not nC'- at the :>1ountl'bank.:< production, l'l'll \''W York SPrtinn of the r 11 mi!y malch westward through the CPpted on the g;'IOUJHI !.hat tlw Aead· \r'Jimilml Code.\ AmPtican Chemical Soc>irty will bP vallp•· from New England b'' wagon emy hat.! in,:ufficH·nt funds tu main- On <lunda•· t!H' vbitUl,: will ut- hP!rl nn \\'Prlnel\dav. :\lnrrh 2, \t > \ !I Tl I !' d f > ~ ·J>. m. in th~ Alban'· CnllPge of ant.! bateau. Schenectady wa.; com- tain a co ege. IU~. t tc >Oar u 1 tend the 11 a. m. Chapel <-ell'ice, > mg in fur mea::;ure of the trade en· TrustP''' had to :<eelt a1tl f1om the and at 12:30 will have dinne 1 at Pharmaey. Th~ ;.;poakrl' at thP !.!;l·ndet·e<i by the \'ettlPment and ex- l'ity an<l ~unoundin~ \'enll'oll<'llt\ Hale Hou\'e and at the ftatemity ll1N'ting will hP Dt. Art.hur F. ploita.tion of the land of \\'e«tern of the 1101th am! we\'t who werl' hou~es. C\rwa ~letlic>nl Dirrctm· of thr Le- :--;e\;; Y<H ](. The boat indu~try was '\l<l'd t11 ''patronize the •·.<tabli:;;h Be~ides the aid .,f the fw.temity c!<-r!P L:lbmntnriP~ and founder l'ominf.: into it,; heyday and the lit· ment of the college ;md to \upputt 1 u:;hing chaitmPn tilt' a.Jumni have atr<l t'ditOl-il>·C'hief nf tht:\ Journal th· to\\'11 wa.:-; ~el\:ing as a shipping it.\ Each d£:>non1ina1ion, none of been instrunlt·ntal in eunta.ding HlHl nf Imnlunnln~y. whnst? tnJlit· ,.,·ill I · h f 1 · I t h lw \Th<' C\hrmicn I AspPr-ts nf A. I· <'1·ntcr for the protlucts of the we~t. w uc wa.:; puwe1 n \r IIC t Cl uug mtct·viewing tho sub·fteshnwn. ant.! ~lini:::tet·~. lender~ had to be t1ained to :-;pon~ot it~ (J\\'11 in4itutinn .. Wt,l'l' znany of thmn al:-;o plan to visit the l•·Jg-iP J)i.~fi~Sf' .. 1\ adminiotcr to theoe pioneer set· forced to co·upetatC'. Tl1ey we1•· l'H.IllJlll.• <luring thb weekend. In lf!32 Dr Cnt'a bPm.me Med· I '1 l1•·a.l Dit•·<l<<J of the Lrtler!P Lab- tier,:, and the praetiea.! bmghers of glacefully willing to un·e a Ct'l egl' 0 . Schcnertwly were dPtermined tha.l transcend denomination hclicf:< plO· otntnliPs. ,\t PIPSPnt h\ is aJ,:o such an in~t1tutiun would ],.. eslab· vidin~ it bulkt•tl l<·t tlw e\mtnon Dr, Cumnlins Retunls f'Jinirnl PrnfP>sor Clf liiPdl<'lnP at ll,:hed. good l.Jy hc'ing dedieatell to tlll' ad- th\ Nrw Yolk Post-C:rndtmte The ol her fo1ce wns thnt of mili- vancement of the va.lley in which :\l··<lirn.l flehool of l'nlumbia L 1 ni· t a.nt t.lenominutlonal 1 r•ligion. After they \HIe nll vitnlly int('J'e\ted Dr. Ea1l E. Cummins will 1e- V•'r,:it~·: . . I d In In< tall< nr C\!l!'H will discttss t ne war th<•te v.a,; a sha.1 p 1 ••aclion The clause in th~· petition wa• tUI n to t 1e campu~ F1 i oy nft.''l· , h f1um the Jadical and mundane ,tricken out wlwn 1t \\\ rcvH·wed nu<on after 1111 absf'nr'P of mne \ t \ nllel ~k rl 1 '\~\P\ ,.:ttrlt as hay Ft(•nch mtlonali.::n1 and Deism by the Boatd of ltt'~etll<' ctnd wao: I werlts dul'in;.; which tmw he undE'r-: ~\\\ 1 nr.d btonrhml asthn1a, a sub- v.hich had gHined wide culleney. nol included in the rhmtcr which WC'llt tnatm0nts for a ;:pinal in· l\\ 1 winch hn.~ bePn tbr• ralls<' of Tl\' C'!nuches wr1e gathering in \\'H~ finally gtHnted in Februar~·. jury in the Nt>w Eng;lantl Rnpti,t ,mnf'h dehntr In ~rcrnt >'<'rrrs: .•nd <'ollVl·tts w!wlesolc by means of re- 17~5, but the roll<'P' n<'V<'lthelc.-:o 1 Hospital, Bo:<ton, ~!ass It is <'X- ~·ontart l>rrmntttti' euch \\ J>Ot•on vivak Sl'!wnectady wa!4 affpcted continued unue1 that ba~i;;, Xation- pcctcd thnt ht: \ill r~st for a f~w ' 1 ''Y ~nrl other pl~nt>', dye~: ancl ancl its nmny denominations were alistic and cconumic intcre~ts had I day>' after his trturn and tr>•umP I rlJPmwal\; HP w~ll also d1scu~s enrolling members. won. I teaching sometime next week. II tthhe te·PCd~mcal chE'mtstry mvolved m es tseases. \Vrrl!H•,day, Feb. 23 Spf•aking;- in daily a:<\rmbly thi\ morning;', Ed.<on V. S. Drnper, editor of the Idol, '\'ked fo1· the coopcral ion of the \tudent body in building up the m.1gazine and repli<'d to the vat i· ous Clitici:'m of the pt C~l'llt i\sut• by ex pia ining thr relatwn,.,hip of the pn•,ent book to the hi.~tor'\\ ant! rle· nlopment of the Idol. · Drn.pe1 po<5ed four que~tion;;; to the a~,emhly an<! answered all four in the light of the Idol's histo1y First Drn.p~r ask<'ll. \\'\'hat kind of :t magnzinc should the Idol be? \\'lla.t kine! of a magazine i.-: the I dol t1 ~·ing to be?' \Vlm.t C'al1 we print in the Idol? 'Whal d<H·~ the fJolicy of the Idol gain fot· you? In df'fense nf the 11\::l;.:·•zine Drap- ,.1 <IPdmed that there wPrP mam· ehcap mn!':nzine:; on the ma1 k~t rontaining fiction ~uperior to the wl'il ing; of the tL~unl college publi- cation anrl that t.llP best fiP!d fot ~tud<'nt Iitemry aC'! ivity was in the de~ct iption and na1 ation of persotlltl PX:perienres or of Ideas of special interest to college readers. The! club memhPI.< \\II; bl' a.ffo•l•l· t'd a ~hDtt htt>athin:.! t->}JPll !hi.~ \'l..t'L'k· l'lltl, aft cr wl.i~h thP n•·xt conn 1 t will bv l.dtl in ,\Jbany <•11 :\la1l'l1 ·1, Wht'Jl the .-tudPnt~ \f hoth th•· h.,~· and gitl~' :-:fction~ <•f .-\lh.anv ,\, .~~1~ cmy will hear the group. Th•· f,.r. ltnving day the l'lub \\ill t 1 <\'L'i to Binghan1ton, wlwtL.' a con., r1 .tllll dn·nre \\'ill he ht•ld on s,.tn:tl•\ night Sunday tLt,Inin .... :1 ht•,ll!J ~~f ~ongH \\dll be sunu; in d !1w:tl dnll ('h, and Dr. TidmatA1 \\'dl ,!IV<' l.i.- :lll· nual Olgan tec;tal Ill tlw \\'•·-t 1': ... hyter ian C'hutcll ti.at •'I'Pllill.:. 'Th<' p:-;1ahlh·dwd .:\lnh·n'-k li .. lf Club ronCl'l t i~ ><'t for ,\1\ Jl ~.'. and tht.' ,.::t•~!.: .... un \.\'Ill lH· <\! t·ra·d .. tt with nn appe:natu·t· :tt tlH' !l1.··t ;tn· nual t\pplc Bl•·~ ..... ,:n F~·--ttval at Kin~ston, whrrt• t~:~\' 1~ni•·n ;..!:,,up will j11in ; lw f:d:uho•JI r·Jub. t 1 :· T,. ~· Vocal Soc wt \'.. .tllt1 ;-1\\'t•: :tl ' t 1. r choir~ to , ... in~ a ~lrlliiJ I'~ :~~~~·Ill':­ under tlll' JcadruiliJl <•f Dr. Tid· marsh.

Pag·e Four THE CONCORDIENSTS. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY .25, 1938 TO'wards Spring After a Hard Winter ~--- ~~-- ---- Varsity Basketball Candidates lltld Initial Meeting Baseball Captain Revision of Rules Winter Spo.rts Campaigns Produce· For Lacrosse Play Few Victories; 8 Wins in35 Con tests MILK SO RICH YOU CAN WHIP THE CREAM Garnet Team Lacks Experi- ence; Last Year's LosseR to Be Filled by Sophs Baseball officially got under way at Union yester·day afternoon when Coach Walter Nelson held a meet- ing of candidates for the varsity team in the Trophy room of the ~ym. Pt·eliminary plans for the \eason were discussed and the ~roup wa~ organized according to positions which the men are to try out for. Actual practbe will begin Monday afternoon when Duke ,.;tat·ts initial drills in the gym for the battery candidates. Ptactise will continue there until wea·ther conditions per·mit workouts on the diamond. Laek Experience The Dutchmen will again suffer this year for lack of experience, <>~pecially in the pitcher's box. Last yPar's southpaw Colby Jones has uan~fered ot Clarkson and Lloyd \Vatet·s failed to return to school. This leaves the pitching reoponsi- bilities mainly in the hands of last yPat':; frt>,;hman twirlers, Chet Hobin~on, AI Mnuld and Bob Han- ~en. Othet positions on the diamond wete nut sn badly hit by gradu- ation. Only Ernie Br·own and Hany :\lat·a, last year's co-captain:; who guarded first and third, will be missine;. However. F1,ed Patrie and Charlie Bruckner, sophomores, may p1 ove sufficient to fill these positions. The catchers box will be well taken care of by Dave Yunich, who wa~ behind the plate last year, and Harry Palmer, who has shown !-:ODd possi bil it cs on the freshman team. Varsity Men Retum . Fouls, Out of Bounds and Free Goal Rhot Rules Changed For 1938 Season WILLIAM THOMAS Debatm·s Meet Dela'ware, Swarthmore on Road Trip The debating team engaged in three debates over the last week- end culminating in a meet with the University of Delaware at Newar, Delaware, last Tuesday in a plat- form debate. In this encounter Charles B. Honikel, '38, and Robert Denzler, '38, upheld the affirmative of the subject; Resolved, that com- pulsury milita1·y ttaining shoald be abolished from all educational in- ~titutions. This debate, like the other two which were contested. was a no-decision affair. On Monday Honikel and Denzler also debated at Swarth:rnore ·over :>tation WIP in Philadelphia. Along with Walter Fallon, '40, they sup.- pot·ted the affirmative side of the que.:;tion; Resolved, that college athletes should be paid. The 1938 season of intercoHegiate lacrosse competition will see an amount of activ·ity in this game which cannot be equalled in the past. Many of the larger institu- tions of learning are realizing that this spring sport is an excellent way in which to get the gridiron stat s into condition. This year's teams will find a num· ber of changes in the game that have been made since last year. The penaHy system has been revised so that a player may now commit three fouls, eit/ter per son a! or •.echnicaJ, instea<l of the one foul formerly permitted. Under the new ruling minor penalties will count as half a demelit while the major penalties, such as a personal foul, counts as a full demerit. The out o.f bounds rule has been changed to call a player who steps on a boundary line out. Formerly, the player was allowed to step on Varsity Lacrosse Captain JOE PAUL \'·------------~-- The past winter sports season was· tion has been aiiLazingly accurate, one of the most dbmal in the his· for out of 13 games played only four tory of Union College from the of them have resulted in victories standpoint of games won and lost. for the Dutchmen. Union has de· Five winter sports teams, varsity feated Haverford, :McGHl, :Hamilton, and freshman basketball, varsity and R. P. I. this yeat· and lost to and freshman hockey, and swim- St. Lawrence, Cla.rl~on, N. Y. U., rning, played 35 contests between Colgate, c: c. N. Y., ColumOia, Mid· December '37 and February '38. dlebury, and twicl!c to Rochester. Only eight of these contests result-.' ed in victol'ies, while one was a tie Coach Nitchman predicted a and the rest (.26) losses. gloomy season .for his basketball team, but \Duke\ :Nelson, varsity Produced Under Strict Laboratory Control For Daily Service PHONE 4-3 :121 General Ice Cream Corp. Looking at these figures from the· hockey coach, an trcipated a \new standpoint of percentages, it is re-· deal\ in Union h1>-cltey. ·With a vet- alized that the Union teams won er an aggregation and ample reserve only (.342) or les::. than one-quarter power, the varsity .sextet seemed of their games. The fres):lmen ag- destined to make a mune 'fo.r itself. gregations faired somewhat better A jinx that hampered the team in than the varsities, winning .30 per the season of !936-37 was active cent of their games as compared to oo~n:c:_e~m~o~r.e:_:. __________ ~=::=:=:=:=:==:::::~~~~~~~ a slight fraction ( .202) over 20 per _ cent for the upper class teams. No lllllll•••••••••••••••••••••••llllllilllllllllllli•••••••••••.! team had a better win than lost 111 a record. The freshman hockey team : : wa:; the only outfit to collect a fifty- • h 11 fifty record. The varsity basketball • K ' ·1 T t a team won (.308%) of its contests, : ' eep·l ng . e ru s .• frosh basketball ( .167'}H, and var- : · ·.• ; : . • · . . · • · • • • ; sity hockey and swimming (.125%). - • • The varsity .basketbal'l season has II 8 been one of the most disappointing 11 • of all. Union has had strong quin- : Ill tets for several years and Nitch- g Ill men coached teams have risen to : On this memorable week-e11d : •. national prominence. Befor•e the 11 season opened, Coach Nitchman 11 11 UNION COLLEGE is keeping : predicted that the varsity five would • win only four games. This predic- : the trust laid down by its 11 . ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;a • • • .founders. • • • • • FOR DELUXE COACHES CALL G. A. WELCOME &SON • • : We are also keeping a tn.1st : : ..• 1 o serve all UNION NEN : • I I • • i n o u r typica · co n g e ni a • • • : UNION style. : • • • • • • II II, • • • • a THE u· NION INN 5 Other men from last year's var- ,;ity squad who are expected to re- turn are Captain Billy Thomas, field, Frankie Myers, second ba~e .. man, Dave Miller shortstop, Jake Amazon, Claude Willey, Don Bu- chanan and Phil Duscherer, fielders. Last Friday evening; Bernard Krause, '39, and Robert Walter, '39, opposed t•he Hamilton College de- baters at Clinton, N. Y. in a plat- form debate. The Union team de- fended the affirmative of the sub- ject; Resolved, that the parole sys- tem as now administered in the United States is detrimental to the best interests of criminal control. the line but not over it. Breaking of this rule will constitute a foul. • • • • : 517 UNION ST. : • • This year's team will be inexperi- enced but with the long list of 14 games scheduled, it should have plenty of chanee to improve. Since there are only two seniors on the squad, Duke Nelson will have the opportunity of building a team with plenty of experience that will ~tand it good in future season,;. ---a--- Sigma Xi Honors Baitsell The Union chapter of the Society of Sigma Xi will entertain the na- tional president of the society, Dr. George A. Baitsell, at a dinner to be held in Hale House at 7 P. M. Friday. Proceding the dinner, Dr. Baitsell will speak in the collo- quium at the General Electric Company in the alternoon. THE ACME BARBER SHOP Welcomes All Union College Students 509 UNION S!f. Nearest tfte Ccrmp11s Schenectady Engraving Cc. 147JAYST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS MOSK0 1 S REST AU RANT Corner State and Church Sts. \Finest Dining Room in Capit~l District\ FINI~ FOODS - DRINii:S MODERATE PRICES CLOVERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVICE Phone 6·8104 919 State St. 633 State St. Thru to Nott Terrace PHONE 6-3456 GUERRA PHARMACY DRUGS; PRESCRIPTIONS, SUNDRmS WE HERVE S~NDWICHES AND LIGHT LUNCJ-IES UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 29c 600 Union St. cor. Barrett Fhone~~U9 The third important change to have been made in this season's rulebook concerns the free goal shot allowed the opposing team when a player makes a foul. In the future the team committing this foul not only forfeits the goal s,hot but also: loses possession of the ball. ' i------ ---- t I I I II 1711 UNION ST. PHONE 4-9444 • • • • Ill II : Favorite Saturday Night Meeting Place of Union Men : • • • • ~-·······························~··~·~········~ ~-----.-~ -----i ·---- ---------~-, I I I I We Suggest a Founders Day for Stud·en·ts The Union Colle<J:e and executed wifh ence. plan was conce~ived a view to perma-n- that's ,the way to build your Wardrobe • • • We will b-e pleased to make su 9 9 e stions '•' JoSEPH'S means STYLE ECONOMY DURASILlTY Stan Joseph, •21 I ! I I I

ter :;H 'HIP M ier Control rvice :121 1m Corp., •••••a••! • • II • II • • • • ••• Ill • • • • • • • II II • II • • II II • • • II II • • • • • • • • • :' • IN i • • • II • • II tion Men • • • • • •••••••••• y TY I I I THE CONCORDLBNSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 193.8 Page Five Spring Schedule· Lists 46 Contests for Varsity Teams ~----------------------- Track Captain Regular Practice For Track Squad To Begin Tuesday VARSITY 'TEA.MS' SPRING SPORTS SCHEDULE BOWLiNG RESULTS-· 1937-38 Workout for Runners Outlook for Season Is Not as BTight as Last Year; Have Many New Men nate April 20 23 2&: 23 27 27 28 30 30 30 30 30 Sport Baseba]], Ease baH Lamosse Tennis Tennis Baseball Baseball Tennis Track Lacrosse Golf Baseball Ma.y 4 Golf 4 Baseball Wednesday, Feb. 23-Daily prac- WINTERTON U. DAY tice- fo1· candidates for both varsity,-------------- 5 Tennis and freshman track squads wiU start next Tuesday, March 1,. ac- cording to an announcement by Track Coach Bill Ketz today. For the past few weeks the runners have been reporting once or twice a week for workouts on the board track. However, intensive tra;ining for the spring meets will begin on Tuesday. · Coaeh Ketz does not expect to have as strong a varsity squad this year as last. The team lost some. good men through graduation last year and, with Hirst and Glenn gone, will be especially weak in the· dashes. There will be, though, a fair amount of veterans and a promising group of sophomor.es to make up for the losses. Candidates for varsity track berths include: Bowie, Endicott, Quinlan, and Freire in the 100 yard dash; Shugg, who should be good this year, Krull, and Fisher in the quarter mile; Annese and Gagon in the half mile. Five men, San- toro, Annese, Sheffer, Ralph Den- ton, and Rehmi Denton, are slated for the mile run, and the veterans, Hawkes, Wells, and .Johnson in the two mile event. In the low and high hurdles there are Captain Winter- ton Day, Derrick, G. Smith, and Hayner. Coach Ketz will have Day and Shugg in the high jump, Pomatti, Myers and G. Miller in the pole vault. E1 nie Bodenstab and Daly will put the shot, while Brittin, Annese, and Teare are slated for the javelin throw. Other candidates have reported but have not been assigned places as yet. Freshman Candidates Fourteen freshman tzack candi- dates h<we reported to Coach Ketz so far. This number is short of the 25 necessary for a well-rounded yearling squad, and more are ex- pected to come out next week. The candidates· now include Ericson, Lewis, Shulberg, Simpson, Reed, Bothwell, Mauriello, Hastings, Col- lins, Klock, Senn, Callan, Prindle, and Danser. OLD UNION By BILL KETZ Intramural Totals Through Feb. 23, 1938 Psi Upsilon ....... , ........ 537.733 Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 523;025 Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . . 513:971 Phi Delta Theta ........... 512.717 Sigma. Phi ................. 480:550 Kappa Sigma .. , ........... 461.180 Phi Sigma Delta. . . . . . . . . . . . 434.004 Beta Theta Pi , . , . . . . . . . . . . 430.733 Kappa Nu ................. 4Z1.644 Chi Psi ............ , . . . . . . . 415.3~9 Alpha Delta. Phi ........... 410.539 Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 386.303 Lambda Chi Al!fha . . . . . . . . . 381 093 Kappa Al·pha . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 378.459 Sigma Chi .......... , . . .. . 338.209 Theta Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . 236.875 Phi Sigma Ka.ppa ...... , . . . 178.669 North College ...... , .... , . 158.886 Neutrals . : .. ............... 153.997 South College ... , . . . . . . . . . . 132.444 Delta Chi ............ , . . .. . &6.699 Oldgym Hall ......... , . . . . . Z5.000 The season's reco1d .was 11 victol'ies and one defeat . . . In 1923 tenta- tive track and tennis meets with R. P. I. were announced thereby reopening relations between the two institutions which were severed in the fall of 1919 . • . In 1928 Mc- Millan placed third in the first set of Olympic try-a.uts in the two-mile steeplechase. Totten the week be- fore had placed fourth in the Na- tional A. A. U. two-mile race . 5 Track 6 Lacrosse 6 Golf 6 Tennis 7 Tennis 7 Baseball '{ Track 7 Lacrosse 11 Tennis 11 Golf 13 Baseball 14 Lacrosse 14 Traclt 14 Tennis :t'T Golf 18 Golf 18 Baseball 20 Tennis 21 Tennis 21 Baseball 21 Lacrosse 21 Track 25 Golf 25 Baseball 28 Lacrosse 28 T!'ack 28 Tennis 28 Baseball 30 Baseball June 11 Baseball 11 Lacrosse f Hocl•ey Letternten All varsity lettermen of the hockey team are requested to meet in the trophy room o:f the gymnas- ium Monday morning at 10 o'clock to elect a captain .for next year's team. POINTS SCORED IN VARSITY SWIMMING-1937-38 *Passe . . . .. . . 4% *Britten . . . . . 11% *Teare . . . . . . . 5:Y .. *Gordon . . . . . 1 Myers . . . . . . 1 Derrick . . . . . (} *DeWitt ..... 1% Reinhardt . . 1 Miles . . . . . .. 1 Dunigan .... Becker . .. . . 0 White ...... 0 Gertz ...... . Wilder ..... . Hart ...... .. Mills ...... .. Wright 0 Minkin ..... \' ~ ~ 3 6 0 1 1 0 2 1 .. 0 0 () 0 I) 1-l \' rn ::s p.; tl ol ~· ~ ;;., 11.1 10% 11 '%. 11% 7% 1 1%, 5 5 3 1 1% 1% 1% 1 1 1 1 0 .. 0 0 .. (} 0 +' '\' t: \' .... \' til .<:: \' ~ ,<:1 tl 0 ~ 6%. 11% 1% 2% 2% 4% 1 3 3 1 1 2% 1%. 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 '\ 0 0 .~ ,!> a ;:!· c> 0 1U 4% 2'/i 3 3 1 u. 1 1 0 0 0 0 E-i ,_; ::;i 10 9%, 9'/i, 5 5 4'Y. H• s :1. 70'h 56 1 .4 28'h 24 18 11'.4 10'h 9 8 2 0 0 0 () 0 0 0 0 0 () 0 Total ..... 28 14 37 31 20 28 30 50 238 sUt: 8 meets-average of 3 points or brealt record aua: 8 meets--average of 1% points. *Broke records (13 times combined efforts) Nearly every year there is sorne talk about the possibility of Union joining this or that conference. Fifty years ago the Dutchmen at- tempted to sponsor a conference to be made up of Union, Colgate, Syra- cuse, Hamilton, and Hobart. These schools were to compete against each other only as a conference in footbaJl. Rochester's reaj)tion was as follows: \We have no hesitancy in saying that such a league as Union suggests would, no doubt, be ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a great addition to intercollegiate ----~ athletics, providing it could be made a success; but in <Jur opinion the scheme would ignominously fail. Union having played football during the fall with some degree of suc- cess (Union lost all their games in 1888) is elated. She is wild with en- thusiasm and by methods of in- sufficient deduction she endeavors to rope us in. We say, no.'' 'rhe Union suggestion eventually was approved and the New York State Intercollegiate Athletic Conference was formed. During the eighties baseball was played in the fall as well as the spring and many of the schools were chary about accepting the new fangled game of football as the only fall sport . • . In 1893 en- thusiasm was high over the base- ball prospects. The candidates for the team had been in training five weeks and many candidates had reported. .John G .. Clarkson, famous Since 1833 Furnishers to Well Dressed Union Mell National Leagile pitcher of Chi- cago, Boston, and Cleveland, was ~~~~;;~~~;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ coaching the battery fGr one week and after that the entire tearn was to be coached by George S. Davis, the third baseman for the Cleve- land Indians. Compliments BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner .. UNION ST. and GILLESPIE L H. Brartdhorst L. E. ll1·andhorst Opponent Pla(le Colgate Away Swarthmore Here Hobart Away Haverford Here Syracuse Here Vermont Away Middlebury Away Middlebury Here Colgate Here Stevens Away Middlebury Away Haverford Here Colgate Here Hamilton Here Williams Away Hamilton Away Colgate Here Middlebury Here Vermont Here Amherst Away Rochester Here Rochester Here R. P. I. Here Syracuse Away Williams Away Rutgers Here Tufts Here Haverford Here Colgate Here Hamilton Away Colgate Away Williams He1e C. C. N.Y. Away Rutgers AwRy R. P. I. Away Williams Here Vermont Away Hamilton Here Amherst Away New Hampshire Away R. P. I. Here R. P. I. Here Rochester Away Massachusetts Stale Here Alumni Here Alumni Here Basketball \21\ The semi-final round of each bracket must be completed not later than tomormw, Feb. 26. The final round of each bracket must be completed on or before Wed- nesday, March 2. The winners of each bracket will then meet on a straight elimination basis for the championship. Three medals will be awarded: one to the winner, one to the runner-.u.p, and one to the winner of the match between the two losers in the semi-final match. Boxing and Wrestling The rules for the boxing and wrest.ling .tourneys are in your re- spective mtramural boxes in the gymnasium, All entrants please read the instructions carefully. Contestants must be weighed in by March 4 in the presence of either one of the doctors, or Mr. Ketz, or Mr. Lawrence. REUTER'S BOWLING ACADEMY 148 CLINTON STREET The choice of the UNION COLLEGE Bowling League Phone 6-~895 ! ---- No. of ~len \Victories Delta Upsilon 7 23 Theta Delta Chi ..... 7 16 Phi Delta Theta ...... 7 16 Lambda Chi Alpha .. 8 15 Phi Sigma Delta \ .. 8 14 Phi Gamma Delta .. 8 14 Beta. Theta. Pi ...... 11 13 Sigma Phi ........... 10 13 Psi Upsilon ........ 11 11· Alpha Delta Phi . _ .• 10 9 Chi Psi ........... - ... 13 8 Delta Phi 0 •••••••• 0 12 6 Kappa Sigma ...... 6 6 Kappa Nu ........... 12 4 Kappa Alpha. ....... 12 3 Sigma Chi ....... - .. 1 0 Skiiers Plan Weeken.d Witb weather conditions ,giving every promise of a sufficiently . white weekend, the W·inter Sports Club has laid plans for an inten- sive prog:ram this week-end. A.bout fifteen members of the organization will travel to Moody's, South · Corinth, for skiing, and other mem- bers of the club wil! journey t~ sev- eral other winter sports centers. A group of club members are go- ing to attend the Dartmouth I. 0. C. A. meet at Spyglass Rill Fm:m, Mt. Moosilauke. DeWitt•s Lunch Room and Tap Room We Serve Better F()od for Better llea.ltb 118-120 JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall MURRY'S Next to the High School On Nott Terrace Hot Special Plates 20e and Up T casted Sandwich~s Entrance Additional Points Points Total 40.001) 60.000 100.000 40.001) 41.728 81.728 40.00() 41.728 81.728 40.000 39.120 79.120 40.00[} 36.512 76.512 40.00() 36.512 76.512 40.00(} 33.904 73.904 40.00() 33.904 73.9(}4 40.00() 28.688 68.688 40.00() 23.472 63.472 40.00() 20.864 60.864 40.000 15.648 55.648 40.00() 15.648 55.648 40.001) 10.432 50.432 40.00() 7.824 47.824 40.000 0.000 40.000 Founders' Day whether in celebration of the founding of a Univer- sity or of a Bank-each an institution for the up- lifting of the masses-is a day to be revered in memory. TeKt-books and Learning form the background of the University: Pass-books and Wisdom that of the Bank . Pui· Your Savings m a Savings Bank The Sehenectady SAVINGS Bank Where Clinton Crosses State Contratulations To UN ION COLLEGE On Founder's Day HALE HOUSE Students Special March Sale! 1935 Graham Conv. Coupe~ Like New 1934 Ford Deluxe Roadster a A-1 ShaDe 1934 ·Ford Convertible Coupe Like New 1932 Chevrrolet Deluxe RoadsterJ Black 1932 Hupmobile Deluxe Roadster a Good 1931 Ford Conv .. Coupe~ Excellent Shape 1931 Ford Deluxe Black Roadster, Clean 1930 Ford Roadster 1930 Ford Roadster, A·l Co11dition 1929 Ford Coach 1929 Ford Coach W .. H. Rice Motor Co., l.nc. ESSO STATION- UNION & JAY STS •. - 803 CRANE ST. $385 315 285 175 175 145 145 125 75 65 45 HENRY'S ESSO STATION- Cor. CONSAUL and STATE In 1898 it was announced that tlte Annual Mid•winter track meet was to be held in the Centre Street Op- era House. A bicycle race wa.s one of the events on the program • , . Twenty-five years ago the Garnet defeated Colgate in the Alumni Gymnasium by the score of 38-21. They claimed . the State champion- ship becalllie Colgate had defeated Cornell. Union had lost the opening game of the season to Rochester by one point but in the return game they were victorious by two points. lb..;==========================~



