on f0r re- in I _I ~ .,.-..,.·· Glee Cliub On Tour Tomorrow Z-511 • • Dr. Zahl Returns From South America Vol. LXU., No. 38 ORION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1989 PRICE FIVE CENTS ================~==============~~===============F===~~==========~=====·~=-=-=======~=============== Dr. B. P. Whita~ker, Finance Authority, Will Teach Here Pr~ofessor La:ngsam Helps Produce ~NBC P:rog.ram Faculty Applauds 'Rosmersholm ~ .At Wednesdtly Preview Showing Glee Club to Sing .In Binghamton Tomorrow Night Pl!iywright to Be Guest 0 f Mountebanks Tonight Miss Candace H. Stevenson. playwright of New York City, will be the guest of the Mounte- banks tmoonow night at the perfo1 mance of \Rosmei·shoim:\' Miss Stevenson is the au,thor of \.A P1·i-vate Venture,\ a new play dealing with the Idsh Revolu- tion w.hich the Mountebanks are Acts as Consultant Also Member ·of Committee For Production of \'Story :Behind the Headlir~es\ Dr. Walter C. Langsam, Profes- sot' .of History, is connected with the production on the National·· Broadcasting C0mpa.ny's Red Net- work ·pr·og1am, \The .Story Behind the Headlines,\ which is presented at 10:45 on Friday evenings, both as a histm leal consultant and a member o.f the directing committee. The broadcast, a commentary by Cesar Saerchinge1·, is given under the auspices of .the American His- toz ica I Associa lion. The purpose of the program, as explained in a bulletin which weelr- ly publishes Mr. Saerchinger's tall,, another pertinent article and· an an- · notated bibliography, is to study · the biggest news story of the week·' from a historical viewpoint, to link past causes to· present effects. A constant effort is zr.ade for accur- acy, and to this end one of the best available historians of the·· field under discussion cooperates in the prepar&tion of the program. Dr·. Langsam has been consulted on, questicms of colonial expansion, for example, on the recent topic, \Hit- let s Cry fur Colonies'\. Other con- sultants have come from such schools as Hazvard, Pt inceton, Co-· Will Present Programs In Three Churches On Sunday The Union College Glee Club, un- seeking the rights to pmduce. To Fill Cummins' Chair Arriving Au9ust I ; Will Teach Corporation And P.ublic Finance der the dh'ection of Dr. Elmer A.. Tidmarsh, will leave Schenectady It is rxpected that Miss Stev- Dr. Benjamin Palmer WhHaker, tomonow fur Binghamton whe1•e enson will make a definite de- state budgel director of Coonecti-' it is schedUled to give four con.- ci5ion. as to whether the world cut, has accepted the po.sition of 2erts in two <=ays before 1eturning ptemiere of het' powezful two- professm· of economics at Union .o the campus. Twenty-nine men act play foi nine male charac- College. He will begin his duties on will make the trip and will deliver ters should take placP in the August 1 when he will resign his one regular concert and pmgrams' Mountebanks Theatre. pre~ent posi\hm, President Dixon of choir music in three different Should the Mountebanks ac- Ryan Fox has announced. churches. quire the right:; to present \A Dr. Whitaker will teach courses The singers will leave the campus pl·ivate Venture,'' they will give in corpo1·ation finance and public at 12:15 p. m. tomorrow aftemoon up plans to present \Brothel' finance, a subject upon which Pro- and will present a cencert at the Rat,\ for· the May pr oductlon as fessor Fred R. Fairchild of Yale Monday 'Afternoon Club in Bing· o!iginally scheduled. ~fembers Univeisit~· considers Dr. \Whitaker hamton at 8:00 o'clock in the eve- of the executive committee and to be \the best qualified man in ning. clolege officials who have read America to handle ... in bCJth re- At 10:00 o'clock Sunday morning,' \A Private Venture,\ are en- ~earch and: teaching.\ the club will sing at the First Meth· thusiastic about it and are mak- Dr. Whilaker will fill the profes- odist Church in Endicott, N. Y. I1n- ing strong efforts to pet·suade sorial chair held by the late Dr. mediately after this they will re- Miss Stevenson to per mit its Earl E. Cummins, although he will turn to Binghamton to sing at th.c presentation here before a com- teach different courses. Pr. Wil- Chenango Street M. E. Church. Th.e mercia! engagement takes place liam w. Bennett has talten over the 5.nal offering of the group will be at elsewhere. courses in labor proble:m.s in which the West Presbyterian Chur:ch Dr. Cummins specialized. where they will sing at 7:30 p. m. This concert will be in conjunctil>n Dr. Whitaker bas aided in the re- with an organ recital to be give·n A·II-College Dance organization of the financial struc- by Dr. Tidmarsh. tures of New Hampshire, Iowa, ThGse men making the trip are: Will Feature Himber Mississippi, Alabama, Connecticut first tenors, .John Mitchell, Ja~k and the territory of Hawaii. He uorr 1 'son. Leonat·d Bull, Ed Schul·~. was research director o'f a com- \\ · -~ .About 100 Union students al'f' ex· Kenneth MacKenzie, Ben Guil~s. mi:;sron concerned with th<J zeo·l- ' peeled to be present at the new · · f · tal and Ja<'k Quinlan·, second tenor-~. gamzat!On o tne governmen State Armory tomunow night, t f c t' t d John \'ri\ght. Walter Sha~·. Ever·•• struc ure o onnec 1cu an waM n , ,. • wh~n Richard Himber and his or- f c Full f'r, Er·n~.\t Rodnno. tab. Au~. 1 . 1 ·n appointed budget directo1 o on- - ,. ,. chcstn1 inaugUJatP the fir~t fkhP· b · f W hite, John Lewi·\ and Rollt\n necllcut y .succes::nvc governozs u ~ nectad;,.· All-College Dance. d\ff t l\t' 1 t\ lumbia, Penn:sylvania, C. C. N. Y., Georgetown, N. Y. U., and Sarah Lawrence. Twining; baritones, Phillip Duch- 1 e!'en po 1 Ica par les. scherer, Chester Robinson, Dudley Lejaren Hiller, one of the fore- His teaching experience includes Holmes, Charles Guiles, Clarence mo!lt professional photographers in a visiting professorship in public seth, housekeeper at Rosmersholm, Woodward, H. c. Smith, John Grow, the country, will act as head judge finance at Yale University. Andrew Speziali, '42, :as Rosmer and Viola Patterson as Rebecca ·we~t Checks Manuscripts have the minor parts. and Russell De yo; Basses, Edmund of the beauty queen contest which Attended Colgate and Yale will be one of the main features The topic ror each Friday's Ry G. LOADWICE: PECn broadcast is usually agreed upon Students who desire to spend the previou~ Monday, and the con· three profitable hours should at- sultant picked. The latter imme- tend the Mountebanks' ~resenta­ diately journeys to New York, if tion of \Rosmersholrn\ which opens not already there, and spends all. to the public tonight and also will day Tuesday advising Mt·. Saerch- be offered on Saturday and ~ron­ inger, who writes his script Wed· day evenings at 8 o\clock. Viola Patterson and Speziali gave Kelly, Elwyn Hannock, Bundy He was born in Newburgh, N. Y., Sh St I H \ll J h lb of the program. The dance is being excellent char·acterizatioo~ of their aw, an ey 1 • o n A ers. in 1399. He attended tlle public I held under the auspices of the Gen- rules on Wednesda•· night. The and Edw n Fitz. schools of that cit'\ and· graduated ' eral Electric College Club. \' former lived up to the reputation The Saturday night program will from high school in 1917. He at- she has built through her pa,.,.l per- be a..~ follows: three CzechosloHl· Plans to broadca!lt a portion of tended Colgate University and re- nesday and re-submits it to the con· \Rosmer.sholm\ is a· ,~owerful, :oultant who. checks the contents moving drama by Henrik 1bsen and adds an explained bibliography which reveals the effects of religi- which is the most up-to-date thing ous and emotional conft:icts o.n the of its kind. Finally the historian lives of a retired clerg-ynan and discusses the finished product with his friends who must choose be- the Chairman of The Radio Com- tween religious traditbn and re- formance:s with the Mountebanks, kian numbers, including Deerr1s the f~stivities over the Red NPt- celved an A. B. degree from that and Speziali. taking his first major Taylor's version of Waters Rip])le WOl\lr of the National Broadcasting University in 1921. While working role with the student company, and Flow; the second group con· System, were arranged by John in New York in the investment does noble work with the leading taining three 'Wagnerian choruses, Sheehan, '24, director of the Union banking business, he completed male part. from Tannhauser, Parsifal, and College Radio Workshop and pro- about one and one-half years of Die Meistersinger. The last group gram director of the General Elec- the required worli in the Graduate Jay Dayton, another Mounte- banlrs veteran, has the most diffi- will contain Dnwn by the Old tric short wave radio station in School of Business Administration Bayou. Mary Had a Little La111b, Schenectady. of New York University, Wall mittee of the American Historical form. Association, of which Dr. Langsam cult part to play as the dogmatic reactionary who is fighting those and The Musieal Trust, a medley .According to advance announce- Street Division. Most of thfs work . h of well-known .American tunes. ments, the dance will probabl•' be was direetl•· connected with the abandonmg t e traditional religi- J ' ous beliefs of the nineteenth cen- The progmm of choir music io attended by about 1000 couples, re.p- duties of the position he thEn held is a member. Best Vehicle in Y\ ea.Is The committee includes seven men with broadcasting experience, two from the educational field, and three persons connected with the business world. It is the gr0up's work to choose the programs, find ruitable consulting historians, co- opet·ate with the broadcasting com- pany to make \The Story Behind the Headlines\ an adult education feature, and raise funds for the broadcaet, which Is supported by subscription~. Members, coming from as far as Schenectady on the north and Washington on the so•lth, meet four times a year in New York to transact theil' business and maintain the association's policy of impartiality on public matters. ---o--- Lanny Probable Choice For March Dance The play as presented Wednes- day night for the facility and guests was by far the best vehi- cle produced here during the past three years. It is ,..e1y· a.daptable to the Mountebanks t'he.atre be- cause a cast Of only six is re- quired and at no time a.re there more than four actors ~on the small stage. Director Edward L. Carroll is deserving of much praise for choos- ing a CG\St which contains: Andrew Spezial'i as Ro:;mcr, \;i.ola. Patter· :>l.n a~ Rebecca West, -in ·<!barge of Rosmer\s household', and Jay P. Dayton as Rector KroLl, Rosmcr's brother-in-law and hea.drna:;ter of a school, in the lea..dir:.g roles. Ralph H. Tie bout, Ill, as the ec· centric Ulric Brendel·, a former teacher of Rosmer; ffarold Hen- di ickson as Peter ·tdor·tensgard, leader of the reform movement, and Mary McGee as Madam Bel- Blind Organist to Play At Sunday Recital Jack Lanny and his orchestra, who played here at the second All· College Dance last year, is the most prabable choice for the dance to be held following the Skidmore-Union 11r. J. Charles Braud, blind or- Glee Club concert on March 1S, ganist who has been takirlg le:;sons Louis J. Can announced toda;). with Dr. Elmer A 'l'idmarsh Carr, committee chairman, also thmugh the generosity ·<>f the lo- announced that a contest would be cal chapter of the Liolls' Club, will held to secure a special name for give the organ reclt.al Sunday, the dance. March 5. The committee ha.s decided on In this program or ·music for Lanny for the dance, but nothing the Lenten Season, }',!r·_ Brand will definite has been done. It is not play \Chota! and Pt-ayer\ from likely that the contract will be sig;n- \Suite Gothique\ by Le<>n Boe!l- ed before Tuesday. man· \Chorale-Preludes(' \Chl i;st There will be no decorations at Lay ~In the Bonas. of Death\ and the affair, except those provided by \All Men Must Die,\ Johann Se- the individual f1·aternities and Alex- 'bastian Bach; \Prelude a.nd Fugue ander Turchick and Warren Kim- in E Minor,\ Ba~h; \As Jesus mey have been .appointed to secure Stood Beside the Cros~.\ S. Scheidt; those which the houses will supply. \Chora•Ie in A Mitt or,\ Caesar John Schultz will have charge. of Franclt· \Harmonies Du Soir,\ S. ticket sales. Karg-Elert; \Cradle Song in D tury. Dayton fills the role well, but be given in each of the three resenting almost every known col- and was not undertaken with any at time.s seems to over-act his part. churches on Sunday will include lege and university in the United idea of academic credit. He enter- On Great Lone Hills, God Be in My States. Besides the choosing of a ed the Graduate School of Yale Ralph Tiebout, as the eccentric Head, Steal Away, Ave Maria queen of the dance, the program University in 1921, and recejved an adds a slight dash of humor to l.Arcadelt), As Torrents in Summer, will be enlivened by skits and the M, A. degree in 1925. He completed the play and on the basis of his The Lord's Prayer by Malotle, l\Dd singing of songs of the various. his residence requirements for Ph. (Continued on Page 4) Bach's Grant 1Js to Do With Ze2l. schools. D. at Yale University and received ------------------------------------------- the Ph.D. degree in 1931. Dr. Zahl Returns From Expedition to British Guiana By JOHN P. LEWIS Returning :-rom his second vcn· lure into the inner jungles of Btit- tish Giuana in the last year, Dr. Paul A. Zahl, research associate of the Haskins Laboratory, 1eturned to Schenectady early this week with reports of the wo!\lll';; highest known waterfalls, a conquest of ~iount Roraima Conan Doyle's \Lust World\ and photographs of some two-inch ants, which he has left at Harvard to acclimate them- selves, some tall tales, and an ad- mirable coat of tan. Has Done Research During 1926 and 1927, he conduct- ed a re.search study undEr the su- pervision of Professor T. S. Adams, · a ocudr of the reiative t.ax burden on artificial ga::; companies of the United States for the American Gas Association. During the school year 1927-28 he conducted, under the s.upervision of Profe>sor T. S. Adams, a study of the relative costs of ]lroduction of Portland Cement in the United States and in the chief competing country, Belgium, for the Portland Cement Association. In 192~. he resigned from the faculty of Yale University and en- tered the employ of Professor Irv- ing Fisher as full-time research economist. His work with Profes- sor Fisher, both when on a part- time and full-time basis, waR large- ly concemed with research in the (Continued on Page 4) ---10--- 0uting Club Postpones I. 0. C. A. Weekend The large g-roup of skiing en- thusiasts which was to have met at North Creek this· weekend, at the fourth I.O.C.A. weekend, will be diEappointed, it was learned yes- terday. by the postponement of thE event due to poor snow conditions. The Union Outing Clul> will, how- ever, go to North Creek and spend the weeltend at their cabi:n. Carr recently went to Skidmore· Flat,\ J. Charles Brand; \Marche to negotiate for late leave for the Religieuse,\ Alexandez· G-uiLmant. d 'th On Sunday. March 12, Dr. Tid- Skidmore guests. He talke WI· marsh will play a prog1·am of re- Miss Gullings, secretary to the d Dean, and he is waiting for defin- quest numbet·s and -wi'll be assiste Dr. Zahl halved the traveling time of fo•·mer ex·peditions to Mount Roraima by making a haz- ardous flight in a hired hydro- plane from Georgetown two hun- dred and fifty miles into the inter- ior and set out on foot ·for the mountain, which was fifty miles further. The first leg of the jour- ney took three hams, the last, six weeks. Art Williams, the plane pilot, landed Dr. Zahl and his Eng- lish companion, G. T. Chislett, with six hundred pounds of equipment on a sand bu· in the Mazaruni River, and then dropped a note stating the whereabouts of his de- parted passengers on an Indian village ten miles downstream. It happened that a single boy in the village had frequented a mission school and could make out a bit of English. Thus the white travelers, drenc he.d to the skin by a terrific rain, were rescued by the natives just as the rising water began to lap the bottom of their luggage on the sand bar's highest point. D1•, Paul A. Zahl, Researd• Associate of the Hasldns Laboratory at work on an experiment. [JISert: A two-inch ant which Dr. Zalll Notices have been sent to the colleges that were expected to at- tend. including R.P.I., M.I.T., Dart- mouth, Vassar, and Ski<lmore. The Radio Club has cooperated with the Outing Club by informing Mr. Wyatt of snow conditions. ite word within the next few days·. by Miss Winifred Wag:ner, soprano. (Continued on Pa,ge 4) bl•ought back from Soutb./JArnel'icm. -Photo courtesy Union-Star

Page Two Qtnntnr FouNDED 1877 \II Causa Per sa Parole II ssai\ l\lembet of the Associated C<>Hegiate Press and tli•tributor or the Collegiate Digest. The official newsPaper \Of the students of :r:lnion College. Published Tuesday and Fridays through· out the college year. Editorial Rooms, .Sllll:man Hall, Union ColiAI{e Cam- .pus. Telephone, .Schelilectady, 4-0133. Pnblleutlon Ofilf!e,. Tlle Gazette Press, 334 State St., Sch.enectady, N. Y, Telephone 4·\'-Hl },;ntered at .the S~henecta<.ty P<>st Office as Second Cla>ls Mall Maller-. Subscription price ,Eive cents a copy ; $3 .. 00· a year;\ delivered a.nywh·el'e In the United Sta::.:·t:-e..::s.::..___ Seni()r Board •Frederic!!:: ·w. ·Heq11.ero:bourg ..•.. Editor-in-Chief Psi Upsilon Rous.......,4-871:0 1\lax Len ......... ··- .......... Busln:ess 1\'lanager Kappa Nu House--4-7331 Robert C. Walter, Jl' •.•• , •••• Managing Editor Psi ·up~4lun ·House-4-8710 Jerome Smith .•.. _ .............. Sports Editor THE CONCORDIENSIS,· FRIDAY, l\IARCH 3, 1939 =~~r;7ed;i~:.i:ii~a;h:~~~~;~~;~ orf~~~~~: I· H: e. a I t h. y A n .• ·rn a 'I . ·1·.· .. 1:.·,11.· M 0 T I 0 N ]_·I '. during Sub~Ft\eshman Week-end. The reason • :... · · · ; · · ' · !.;;_· ==========;;;;!.!:- given for this vete was that there \-Vas 110 = Let Us Live is a screenplay in way of enforcing SUCh a rule, if passed. W.e It's all ·!i.l'(}Wld by this time: there until ·they came back. He which Anthony Velller, late of Win- might point out that other C()lleges having What Theta Delt gave a floor show was jumping up and down in an terset and Union College, had a in George's Wednesday night~ Ad- effort to keer warm, fine Ita;lian hand. It was di.rected Interfraternity Councils have no tt·ouble en- vance lessons in love, no less. If * * • by- a John Brahm, of who,m we forcing regulations. Why'? Because any fra- the gentleman would Jet people Biggest •Ia.ugh of the week: Phil have never heard before but from t 't tl \]If 11 b k f th know beforehand, a laTge audience Duchscherer ,,.etting up in the Stu- whom we hope to hear again. John erm y 1at w1 u y · rea s any o · e \\ h d · t t 1·tu · b f would be insut ed. , .. Dr. Morison, -~c, 1 t Councilrmeeling and threaten- , . as one a mce a.u 1 · e J!l o Council's laws is socially ostracized by the according to \VOrd received here, ing that the Glee Club wouldn't ·directing what might have been an th b l •t th · t th 1 received an anonvmous th1eatening per.form ·at .the concert ·(Mar. 18) or·dinary .film, but isn't. o · er mem ers. · n um .v , ere Is s reng . J • letter about hio \red remarks\ on un'less the members were admitted, Noticeable throul:gout Let Us To bear out our contenti.on that the1·e is Founders· Day as 1eported in the free to the ,dance which will fol\ i Live are unusual ldnds of photo- HE\ra:ld Tribune. . . Congratula- low. ,graphy. Examplt-: the feces of t\· o something radically wrong with OUl' .present tions to the Mountebanks for their· • • • , people are reflected .in a coffee con- rushing set-up, we would like to point out new worl'5.hop and general im- · tainer,-the camera :photographs provements in the theatre. The oak ·what's ~his we hea-r about swim- them head-on, but is' nat itself rc- the fact that several pledges have broken off paneling which was destroyed by ming being made a ma;jor sport fleeted. ·Example: taxicab cruises connections with their prospective \bt\oth- the WashbUt n fire has been re- next year with Bl\ock \U\ sweat- along street,--camera moves with · placed 0 ,· ,paneling from behind· ers to the men? It's a ·gocd idea, it at identicJ.l speed. li1 addition. e1•s\ this ,past .vear . The onl·y plausible rea- J - the stage and b!ends very well with especially, 'If the .ski team are, about seventy-five per~ent of the son that can be advanced for this situation the test of the wall. ... Swede • given stJt sweaters as reported.· scenes are close-ups. 'lihese strange · h th 1 d f d h h d d Hanson ca11 t figure out why the . . . Co-Keepers of the Jug this devices are extremely ·effective in 1s t at e ·p e ~res oun t e.Y a ma e a ~ d Wh t · ~ Kappa Sig:s lost the intramural yeai·, we un\-erstan - . . . a 1s providing the film with a certain Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Robert A. Sa.af, ..•.....••••...... News Editor 1133 Parkwood Blvd.-4-0\182 mistake iu their selectioHs, an.d took the only 'basketball playoffs. . . . this tradition. about seniors in the .dramatic pace which .fits the sto1y, , . W~l'' out bv breakinQ' their \mled!te.\ A revi- ·Phi Sigma Delta house? ... J., one involving a couple of .on!inary ., J ~ F ~ * • • · .Ectg-ar Hoover sends copies of all people in a crime because of a wel- H. Wyman Hltchc;()Ck ....•. , ...... Copy Editor Delta Upsilon House-4·7922 John Malone ............... Circulation Manager 1091 ICeyes. Ave.-4•6931 sion of OUl' rushing laws seeB:t.S to be· the Literary news: Princess Kl'opot- h!s speeches to Prexy .... Johnny, tel' of circumstantial evidence. .. ·most ]ogic.al legislation for the InterfFater- kin, who w1•ites a column in Lib· Altemus is now woLking for the The cast is ·rather good on its erty, has I·ecommended Beer for Nl\w Jtorker. own hook. Maureen 0' SulHvan suf- National Ad:vertising Service, Inc. Colle&\ Pr<blishers Represrmldive 4.20 MADISON AVE, NEW YORI<, N, Y. CHlC.AGO • BOSTClH ' LOS A.MCILI!S \'.SAfl FRANCISCO Jtmlor Editorial Board C. Russell Deyo Geor-ge L. Peck Christopher M. F.ally Larry Pellettler Edwin A. Fitz, Jr. Soph()lnore Editorial: B~Jard Paul B~{·l\ei\t Johtl Lewis, John Phillips, Sheldon 1'. Jet1kins. H.~hert t;chulberg, Jame,; !·~. Twining. S.\U!Ii:ness Staff Robert Eisner, Jaclk Rabinowitz, Donald Haigh, ·La:ska.r Schwart2, .Arthur Davis, Andy Kay, Justin Per-lstein, ·stanley Greenstein, l\lyroil Mills. Issue Editor. . . . . . . ... , . , ....... C. R;ussell Dcyo A8::>iKta.llt:-: E Pitz. J. I .. t·wi~. P. Het>l\.el' Friday. March 3, 1939 \BEST QUALI FlED\ Union will rec€ive a schola.r described as ''the best qualified man in Am-erica for re- search .and teaching in the field of public finance\ when Dr. Benjamin Whitaker as- sumes a professO>rship in economics next fall. This appointment is .a happr one for the college. Dr. Whitaker will bring to his stu- dents and to his colleag·ues on the faculty the benefit of many years of actual experi- ence in his specialized field and will perhaps be able to add the realistic touch which our colleges are acc11sed of lacking at present. Because of the ever inct'easing complexity of government finance and the vitally impor- tant place it occupies as a political issue, the addition of Dr. Whitaker's course in this subj.ect will also be a step forward in adj-ust- inO' Union's eurTiculum to conditions in the 0 world beyond cO>!lege walls. FOOD FOR THOUGHT nity Council to consider, but instead it seems the Kitten as the book of the week. • • * fers like sixty and makes ·plenty of to prefer to run dances, w.h.ich any other . . Prof. Haefner has written a \Vhy do th.e Union men contil'lue · noise about it. Henry Fonda kee]'s · t• ld b bl d ll ll book .... Charlie Waldron received to patronize the Club Pet-ite? About his sorxows to himself. Alan Bax- orgamza lOll COU pro a. Y o equa Y we·. a phone call from a certain anon- S ter is undecided. Other people like fifty men V!ere down there atur- Obviously we cannot force the Council to in- ymous donor who said \This is day night and star.ted to sing col- Ralph Bellamy stand around being · d Gus Blevitch speaking.\ . . . Sev- 1 G h powerfully sympathetic. vestigate the situation, but until it oes, we eral bool'\ wel·e loaned out ·Of the ege songs. Mv. , rennan, 1l e man- Vaudeville: The Six Gre•·s are ~ ager, asked them to stop. They o promise to retain a ver:y low &pinion of its li:br-ary and were stamped as due did; and a few .minutes latex:, noteworthy only because, during members. Apparently their '!Hinds are stel'ile on February 29, 1939 .... A cer- started singing again. Grennan their stint on the stage, the song tain mernl>er of the faculty is writ- produced a plain-clothes .police- \Loch Lomond\ is given a decent and their ambitions meager. ing a take-off on BeE'r for the Kit- man and $ingled out Ed Kelly. burial. ten and is calling his chef d'oeuvre Kelly had stap;ped singing a:nd -was Garbage for the Guinea Pig. The talking to the cop. WHAT PRICE APPROPRIATIONS? On Moving-up Day last spring, a new soci- ety was brought into being at Union. Amid general applause and approval, fifteen jun- iors weTe appointed cha1ter members of the Garnet Key, an organization which was to have as it primary function the welcoming of visitors to the campus. Since similar soci- eties are prominent at many other colleges, notably Dartmouth, Cornell, Colgate, and R. P. I., it was felt that the Key would be a de- si.rable and useful addition to the campus organizations here. first chapter has been completed There was nothing ·wrong until and is terrific. Wow!! The pen Grennan started swearing in front name is Esther Whine. · · · Lang- of several ladies. W:·hen Kelly told sam has a book coming out in May. him to watch his. language, Gren- * * * It was .down by Freeman's Bridge last week. One of the attendants at the gasoline storage plant no- ticed somebody jumping up and do-wn on the bridge. After a long while, the gas attendant called the police fea.ring a suicide was immi- nent. The genda.rmes arrived and took the situation well in hand. The situa.tion: a pledge was being initiated and was left on the bridge by his brothers and told to remain nan hit hillJ. on the jaw. Since Mr. Grennan has openly said that he does not want the patronage of Union men, why give it to him 1 lt cannot be doubted that the idea was good. Visitors to the campus have never been g1:eeted by any organized committee unless they were figures either of national importance or intimately connected with the college. Visiting speakers have ofte11 ar- rived by train and found 110 one to greet them at the station. Consequently, they have found it necessary to find thei1· way to the campus alone, and even then they often had no rdea as to the location of their ultimate CULLS FROM THE PRESS For Italr. for Europe and for the world, for better or for worse the election has occurred, and Car- dinal Pacelli is now the Supreme Pontiff. Under present political condi- r · Hons, it was of tremendous impor- tance that the throne of Pius XI be filled by a statesman who has at his finger tips all the threads of European politics. And the former ..:ardinal and ex-Secretary of State af the Lateran apparently has the intellectual and spiritual endow- ments as well as the political ex- perietrce necessary for the mighty task before him. destination. The significance of the election The administration cannot be blamed for is yet to be ascertained but al- ready the nations of Europe are this condition. The faculty has many duties w-eighing the effect the actions and to fulfill and cannot be expected to Jay aside policies of the new Pope might have on a stormy European politi- other work to meet the visitors who come cal scen:e. The great democracies to the campus nearly every day, and to show. expressed keen satisfaction over the result. French official circles them about the college grounds. Visiting were extremely happy while Eng- athletic teams have always been left to the !ish officials commented on the , gt·e3t sttength of character and The H . .A. -L. K. FI:WlJlll Starting TOil A Y'l 'YJ;:S-MY UARI.ING TIAl\GH'l'ER' with Pl'lrilla I.ane, Jeffl•ey Lynn 2nd Hit \i.UY SOX IS A I'Rtll!NAL\ with Alan Baxter, JaC.IJUellno Wells tender mercies of the athletic department, diplomatic skill of the Pope. Last fall we took some pains to point out which, while treating the visitors hospitably, Italy wa\ teserved and made to the administration and the Interfratel'- has never had the time to g-reet teams which .;;orne gua1·det.! remarks about \com- h · promise.\ accepting the Cardinals' nity Council tb.at our present n1s mg sys- ceme hel'e as our teams are treated hy some choice calmly as a \seasoned dip- tem, to put it Inildly, w:as lousy. At the same of the colleges which they visit. lomat rather than a political time we offered a plan that we thought For these reasons, there is certainly a P'6~;~ >Germany gave vent to emo- would alleviate many of the evils of our pres- place for the Garnet Key at Union. In view tion. A. German spokesman re- ent \hot-box\ pl'ogram; namely, deferred of events since last May, however, the Key marked: I t . t t• \It is an unusual step for the ruslting. The on Y reac lOll 0 our sugges HH1 has failed miserably to live up to the high Cardinals to decide on a profes- was a defeatist statement fl'om one of the hopes a:nd expectations which arose at its slonal politician for this highest f h d · · t t' t th ff t post in the Catholic Church. It members o t e a mm1s ra ·lOll 0 e e ec inception. After a few feeble attempts early reveals at once the difficulties in that undeniably our rushing system was last fall to have a group .of students at the which the Church finds itself at b t 't b tt th 1\n use at PlE'Sent.. In fact it appears the only poor, u 1 was e er an many railroad station to greet visiting speakers way out.\ other colleges. when they came in, and show them about Goebbel's paper, Der Angl'iff, The Interfra;ternity Council was re-01·g-an- the campus, the society gave up this proJ· ect. .nade some violent attacks on the new Pontiff, charg;ng him with ized last year because several members of Even its program for furnishing ushers for being t.he moving spirit behind the the Student Council felt that there was a Sunday chapel failed. After several Sundays alleged emnity of the Vatican to- ward Germany. They calmed down, neecl for such an organizatio-n. We agreed when it was necessary to solicit volunteers however, and intimated that they with this attitude and, strangely ·enough, a few minutes before chapel services beQ\an \would wait until the Pope's atti- - tude toward the authoritarian still do. But W€ have lost faith in the ability Mr. Ketz took this responsibility away from states become clear.\ It was said of its present members to do anything con- the Key. At present the society pedorms that his views on this subject might change after he has assumed his structive for the college. As far as we can only such tasks as are forced upon it by the duties. ascertain outside of running two successful administration. Thos.e expecting drqstic action d d t . h f 't b k are largely doomed to disap- ances an vo mg eac o I s mem ers eys, lt was recently announced that all parking pointment. For although vested the Inte.rfraternity Council has done only fines :are to be donated to the Gamet Key. with tremendous power he is cir- t t . th' t \' d f cumscribed \by the spirit and prac- one cons rue Ive mg-s a:rce a move or In the lil:tht of the inert1·a exh1\b1'ted at pr\s- · _ \' tlce of the Church, by the respect cooperative buying. ent b¥ the Key, we see no reason for this due to ,general councils, to ancient P h 1, • • • 1\ t d · · L h statutes and customs, by the right €r aps we are ljemg too v1tmo lC owar a:p:propr1at10n. · et t e group prove its worth of Bls.hops, by his relations with certain metnbers of the Council, but appar- to the college. When and if it shakes off its civil powers. by the traditional tl th d .1: d · th · t' t 1 th' , th • ._. 'l b . . . mild tones of government, of the en y . .e eau:woo m · e orgamza. 10n ou - e a1gy, e app-ropr1a~1on Wl I e JUStified, j papacy, and finally by the respect weighs the progressive memb-ers. Two weeks· but UJ'ltil such a time, we cannot approve of I' indispensable in a spiritUal power ago the Co11neil voted down a proposal by a j the action. towal'ds the spirit and minds of ·nations.\ Edward C. Retartyk I • • • this telephone idea can help you WTHILE you're in college, you're on the consumer V\' side of the fence. There you'll find the \Where t:o Buy It\ section of your Telephone Directory a q~ck, easy way to discover who sells what you want. After graduation, you may be on the othel' side o£ t:he fence,. too-the seller's side. As a manufacturer or <listributor o£ an advertised product you will find clas· slfi.ed telephone directory listings a most effective and eeonomical way to direct buyers to th.e de!tlers han. €lling your product. 'l'his directory service, tying up the natioaal adver· tiser with the local distributor of his product, is just '()De of many Bell System -ideas that help t() increase tll.e value of yow· telephone. (our Of 1~ Two Sch1 Wa, Herber, Catr, '40 · the 193£ team in 1 lettermen Watson Schultz, court sqt ester qf t named a• during tt the ineli~ semester i Watsor High Scr since his was awa1 sport las cipated < ·his first scoring 112 point he playe< ber ·of th Carr, Ohio, wa court sq· played I Union. J \U\ for was also ba:ll last Carr iE dent Cou net Key Prom Co Both c bers of t ternity. Baseba All c Base bE report 2 p. m their gloves. Res tau G A Phone 6-2351 . -.=-- 1

a of Us 0 l'C- ith on, in a in its of are ells you THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1939 Page Three Courtmen Elect (a·rr and Watson As Co-Captains Of 1939-1940 G.arnet Varsity BasketbaU Tea.m Brown Named Captain Of Varsity Hockey Team Foster Brown, '40, was elect- ed captain of the varsity hockey .squad for next ·season in an election held Tuesday after- noon by the lettermen of the past season's sextet. Brown is still absent from classes while recuper&ting from an attack of pneumonia. His UJ.ness pt•e- vented his partic1pating ln the last hockey game of the season, the contest with Middlebury on :February 18. Fencers to Meet LaSalle de Vince ln Contest Tomorrow Afternoon ~-------------------------- Two ..Juniors Succeed Schultz as Captain; Watson High Scorer Herbert Watson, '40, and Louis. Carr, '40 were elected co-captains of · the 1939-1940 va:rsity basketball tea:m in a qieeting of all basketball· lettermen Wednesday afternoon. Watson and Carr succeed John Schultz, who ·ca!ptained the Unl(}n court squad during the first sem- ester of this season. Carr had :been named acting captain of the. team . during the se~ond semester due to the ineligibility of Schultz for first. semester play. Both High Scm·ers Watson, a graduate of Scotia High School, ha9 played basketball since his entrance into Union. He was a wa-rded his Block \U\ for this sport last year, after having .parti-· cipated on the freshman squad. .in his first year. He lead· his team in scoring this .past seaS>on, tallying 112 points in the 12 games in which he played. Watson is also a mem- ber ·of the Junior Prom Committee. Carr, a resident of Cleveland, Ohio, was captain of the ft·eshman court squad in 1936. He has also played basketball since entering Union. He was awarded a Block \U\ for the sport last year, and was also voted· this award .fol' base- ball last year. Carr is also .secretary of the Stu- dent Council, a member of the Gar- net Key .Society, and of the Junior Prom Committee. Both Carr and. Watson are mem- bers of the Lambda Chi Alpha fra- ternity. -------o---- Baseball Team to Report All candidates for the Varsity Easebal1'Team are requested. to· report in the gymnasium at 2 p. m., Tuesday, March 7, with their gym equipment and gloves. ltestaumut-Tav Room-Delleates8en GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR Phone 6-2351 for daily delivery o-nno-W) ~ NEW TRUMP $2 Attention: Non-Swimmers The following students have not passed the required swim- ming test. They are requested to report to the Pool Attend- ant and take same at once, any afternoon daily, 1940: Cimorelli, M.; Egan, R. A.; Fallon, A. A.; Fitz\Simons J.; Hill, P. T.; Humphrey, M. A.; McLeod, K. A.; Sweet,. A. E.; Waite, D. J. 1941: Albright, W. A.; Bruesch, C. J.; Cerasano, E. A.; Connor, H. F.; DeMatteo, R. E.; Ericson, R. :P.; Fitzsimmons, R. M.; LaCerva, S. P.; MacKenzie, K. E.; Male, R. F.; McCa·rtney, A. N.; McManus,. J. J.; Murray, W. G.; Nadler, H. C.; Otte- ·not, E. M.; Porter, J. H.; Rickard, D. M.; Shanley, J. P.; Thackeray, E. J.; Viscusi, W. 1B42: Best, W.; Birdsall, W. C.; Blake, D. K.; Britten, H. H.; Coates, W. R.; Coley, G. R.; Doyle, T. J.; Duquette, B. T.; Ehrcke, J. W.; Feigenbaum, A. V.; Feldman, L. L.; Fischer, A. C.; Fitzpatrick, R. D.; Fogg, M. N.; Foley, J. E.; Forse, R. W.; Genova, J.; Giles, J. A.; Goldbeg, D.; Guerry, W. A. Hart, C. A.; Hill, W, D.; Billick, J. S.; Horsman, W. B.; Horton, W. F.; Johnson, F. W.; Keele, C. B.; Kelch, E. C.; Killian, R. K.; King, E. T.; Knopf, A.; Kohlenberg, S. G.; Landry, P. J.; Lev:ine, L.; Lichte, W. J.; Little, R. W.; Linde- berg, J. A.; Loughran, J. A.; Mac- Donald, J. E.; Mead, H. T.; Mills, M.; Mudge, J. W.; Orton, A. S. Parson, T. L.; Poole, J. A.; Rasso, A. E.; Rlfenbark, H. E.; Rooney, J. L.; Royce, C. P.; Sammons, H. R.; Shell, G. H.; Smith, H. E.; Speziali, A.; Stanco, M. A. Ste- vens, D. L.; Swart, W. F.; Thyne, F. S.; Van Aernum, J. H.; Van Zandt, W. K.; Walker, E. D.; War- dell, E. R.; Weider, J. C.; Weller, W. E.; Willson, R. H.; Woodward, C. E.; Yuen, S. K. Want long collar life? The collar of Arrow's New Trump Shirt bas the longest life of any soft collar made ! In tests, this specially woven collar was washed 50 differ· ent times (equal to almost 2 years' wear) without even £raying! • The New Trump Shirt is Mitoga·tailored to fit you better. And it's Sanforized Sbtunk • • • we guarantee it not to shrink. Nitchman Ends Spring Footba:U Practice Se·ssions Coach Nels :Nitchman's daily drill sessions during the past two weeks with next season's football quad of 45 men d·raw to an end to- day. His purpose in these pre-season workouts bas been to teach the Brown is a resident of Ma- plewood, N. J., and a membet· of Kappa Alpha Socie;y. He ha.s also played on the varsity golf te3.m. This meeting was the last get-togethet· f.cr the team with Coach Duke Nel~on, who .left next morning to take on his duties at R. P. 1. Brown, as the newly-elected captain, will head the 1940 heckey :;quad for next season under a different coach, Art Lawrence, who was coach of hockey three seasons ago. Awards to Seven Skiers Announced by Wittner Seven men were given athletic awards for ski team participation, Professor J. Harold. Wittner an- nounced today. As this is the first year that skiing bas been recog- nized officially and supported by the Athletic Department, recipients of these .awa~ds are the first men to be so recognized for skiing at Union. The \sUt\ award was voted to four skiers, ·including John Senn, Edward Jackmen, Ted Scantlebury, and Manager Andrew Vanderbilt. Three men, Jesse .Sherman, Peter Owens, and Robert Corby, Assistant Manager-elect were named: for the \a:Ua\ award. present freshmen players how to execute most of the more common These men will meet shortly to elect a captain for next year's ski plays and to acquaint them with squad. the other players before the stren- ---0·--- Tennis Candidates Meet To Discuss Plans for Season La Salle de Vince fencing salon letic Department, o;everal of the of New York City, one of the coun-. most promising Union swordsmen try's most prominent fencing will fence with the visitors. The groups, will perform in an exhibi- Schenectady ·Fencing Club, the Y. tion at Ah:~mni Gymna:>ium tamar- M. C. A., and the LaSalle Institute row afte1 noon at 2:00 o'clock. Miss. of Troy, have been invited. to take Maria Cena, Wome,·s Intercolle- part. The Dutchmen defeated the giate Champion, and Miss. Marion highly rated LaSalle squad recent- Dalton, Metl'opclitan queen, will ly. demonstrate in the feature match Competition will be with all three of the meet. 'weapons, the foil, epee, and saber. Following this exhibition, which Although not recognized as an offi- ·has been a·rranged theough Coach cia.]' varsity team, tbe .fencing squad Merton Zubres and the college Ath- has competed in Sleveral meets thus Union's Fencing Coach MERTON F. ZUBRES DOUW F. BEEKMAN Gasoline • Brake Service U. S. Tires - Motor Tune-up Exides - Lubrication let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 601 UNION ST. far this year. It now remains as the only campu:; winter sports group yet in action. what with sev- eral contests to be run off on its schedule. Union students to pat·ticipate in- dude R. Herman, foil; E. Fisher, saber; A. Bakal, foil and epee; J. Freire, saber; R. Eisner, saber; W. Kimmey, foil and epee; F. Mele, foil and epee; M. Ries, foil and epee; R. Bil·dsa!l, foil and saber; M. Cappiello, foil and saber; W. Mool'e, .foil and epee; and R. Mar- tin, foil and epee. -~- --o----~ PING-PONG TOURN!UfENT Because ·of nume1ous hour exams and Hell Week, it has been deemed advisable to advance the first round deadline fl'Om Wednesday, March 8 from the previously ar- ranged Friday, March 3. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Quality Service Satisfaction•• 598 B'way- For Better Values uous training season commences in the fall. He was handicapped in the first five pr-actice sessions by the fact that many candidates were unable to participate because of the various inconveniences of Hell Week. In closing work-outs, Nitchman employed more complicated Slignal systems. He has classified his squad into candidates for various posi- tions and bas finished much of the preliminary outlines for next fall's eleven. Meeting in the gymnasium on ruesday aftenoon, 17 candidates for the varsity tennis team dis- cussed plans for the coming sea-~~~~~~~~~~;;~;;~~~~~~~~~~;;~;;;;;;;;;;~~ >on. As Coa~h \Bill\ Aydelote is 1 i still in the South, no ·definite ac- tion was taken, but Captain Ben Rathbun indicated that the squad . would start practicing in the gym- nasium next Monday. Open Until II P. M. DELICIOUSLY CREAMY - REFRESHJNGL Y RICH Freshmen Most Numerous The backfield positions represent Union's strongest fortification, in which division t:here were 14 men drilling daily. Of these, eight were freshmen, five of whom have had experience on last year's freshman team. Of all classes, the class of '42 brought fort:h the most candi- dates, with 17 men in all. Adam Ciesinski and Gur Mollicone, who saw considerable activity with last season's varsity, have not reported this year'. Ciesinsld is being treated for a leg injury which caused him to give up basketball early in the winter. The doctor has advised him to refrain from running. Mollicone is employed at pre.sent and has no available time for practice. The tennis season will open on April 28, when the Union squad plays A:mherst here. Arrangements are ·being made, however, to se- ~ure practice matches with local teams. Candidates present at the meet- ing were: Captain Rathbun, Ed- ward Jackman, Marvin Dwore, Douglas Murphy, David Miller, Phil Mitchell, Douglas Schattan, Robert Carr, John Morrison, George Miller, Philip Potter, Joseph Rus- sum, Warren Kimmey, James Smith, Robert Furman, Leland Beik, and Warren Knox. ·---01--- INTRAMURAL SPORTS -Can.<lldates Boxlng and Wrestling The candidates, according to posi- Entrants in each tourney must tion, have been as follows: be weighed stripped by tmorrow Ends: Jim Bo-thwell, John Gui- noon, March 4, either in the pres- bert, Diamond Marotta, Bob Davis, ence of the college doctors, Mr. Bob Hallenback, ·Leo Dwyer, Bundy Ketz or Mr. Lawrence. A group Shaw, and Cass Szymczyk. must enter and compete at least two men to gain the entrance Tackles: Paul Mara, Augie Kluge, points in the boxing tournament. Bob Eisner, Fred Burns, Wally Baker, Mo Weintraub, Bill Hill, Abe In the wrestling tourney, at least three men from a group must en- Oarsman, Wally Sjostrom, and My- r·on Mills. ter and compete to gain their en- trance points. The elimination Guards: Dick Kearns, Bill Lynn, bouts will begin about the middle Bob Baker, John Krull, Moey Fried- ')f Mach. man, Melvin Gerrltz, Stew Gold- blatt, Alex Cammarotta, and Bill Boxing and wrestling classes are Paul. held under the direction of Mr. Fitz and Mr. Ketz, respectively, Centers: Dick Kearns, Ross 4:30 to 5:30 p. m. daily in the Christiansen, Bob Molloy, and Bob gymnasium. Arnold. Backs: Fred Patrie, Dick Balch, Basketball \21\ \Peachie\ Vannier, Captain Sam David Miller and Marvin Dwore Hammerstrom, George Norris, Lee have reached the final round of tbe Sherman, Ed Enetice, Bob Killian, Basketba:ll \21\ tounament, and Tom Parsons, Charlie Clowe, Joe ·wm meet soon to decide the cham- Mudge, Bob Reynolds, Sherry Hill- pionship. Over 300 competitors en- ick, and Pick Griffith. tered the tournament this year. GUERRA P·HARMACY DRUGS, PRESCRIPTIONS, SUNDRIES WE SERVE SANDWICID!lS AND LIGHT LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 29c 600 Union St. ~or. llnrrett 633 State St. 226 NoH 1er. 204 Uniolt St. 1 009 Chrisl.er Ave. Phone2·94 Ul PHONE 6·3456 SEAL TEST M APPROVED Are You Collar Blind? SHORT NECK! Wear Arrow GORDON or TREND-long points give your neck altitude. ~ONG NECK! V\ear n.rrow WIND· !:!'OR (with tab or tab- less collar) - short pt:>ints cut down altitude. NORMAL NECK I Wear A.r.row RADNOR - round point!>, very dressy. In fact, all 1\.r- rows look well on you. If you want to make th.e most of your face, select .Al:row white shirts with the right style collar to fit your type of neck. Arrow ~bites are world· famous, revolutionary in de- sign and renown for the best· fitting, best-looking .collars that ever circled a ne£k. Arrow whites go with all your suits, always smart, always right. Gordoo Oxford and Trump are two Arrow shirts every colle~e man should own , • • they're long on wear and short on the purse-strings. Only $2. Arrow shirts are Sanf1>rized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%) ARROfl/ SHIRTS

Page Four B. P. Whitaker Appointed to Teach Eco,nomics To Fill Cummins' Chair Arriving August I i Will Teach Corporation And Public Finance 1 Continued from Page 1) field of money, banking, invest- ments and index numbers. From 1933 until 1935, he was em- ployed as Research Director of the Connecticut Tempo1ary Commis- sion to study the tax laws of the state and to make recommcndatimis cancer ning their revision. From 1935 te 1937, he was Re- search Director of the Connecticut Commission Concerning the Reor- ganization of State Departments. Ft om 1937 to date, he has been Director of the Budget of the State of Connecticut. Work on Publications In 1927 he collaborated with Dr. Lionel D EdiE' in the publication ol a small book entitled \Problems. Cru;es and Questions in Economics,\ a manual \o accompany L. D. Edie's \Economics. Principles and Prob- lems.\ He assisted Professor T. S. Adams in the t·evision of Richard D. Ely and Associates', \Outlines of Economics\ fout·th edition. He assisted Dr. Lionel D. Edie 'n the revision of all chapters of his book \Economic:; Principles and Problems,\ except the chapters on money and banking and public finance. While with the Bwokings Institu· t ion he \VI'Ote the sections of the 'urvey reports on organization and administration of the state go vet n· ments of Mississippi, Alabama, New Hampshire and Iowa, and the chap- ers on railroad and motor vehi- cle taxation in the published vol- ume entitled \The American Trans- portation Problem.\ He supervised the writing and wrote a considerable part of the report of the Connecticut Special Tax Commission of 1933. He wrote the report of the Connecticut Re- organization Commission of 1935, although the Commission itself de- termined the subject matter to be ncorporated in that report. ·---0 'Rosmersholm' Wins Critic's Praise (Continued from Page 1) performance Wednesday night can be classed as a promising young character actor. He and Speziali are young men with futures in stu- dent dramatics at Union College. Mary McGee and Harold Hen- drickson also do fine work in their minor pat ts. :Mis:; McGee is the busy-body housekeeper who makes everything her business, and Hen- drickson is the reform leader who appears but once during the second act. The action of the story takes place at Rosmersho lm, an old fam- ily seat near a small coast town in Norway, Rosmer·, a former clergy- man, is sympathetic with the re- form movement and is abused by his brother-in-law for this attitude. This eonflict between the two men s increased when Rector Kroll suggests that Rosmer· has had im- moral relations with Rebecca, even <rhile his wife was Jiving. The play continues with further contlict:s and rushes to a dramatic conclu- sion. The settings, designed and exe- cuted by John T. Boyt, are very attractive and appropria 1e to the nineteenth century life which the play portrays. The only part of the play vulner- able to criticism Wednesday night was the players' stumbling over their lines three or four times, but their means of regaining their places was so smooth it is hardly justifiable to mention it. The play has been produced un- der difficulties arising from the fir\ which gutted the theatre dur· ing the Cl11istmas recess. Hanna Hail has now been repaired and new chairs have been added. The chairs are 1 ed and green with steel frames and canvas coverings. A good~•ized faculty audience attended the \dress rehearsal\ but no representatives from the 'Social !'ltudiPs divi>'ion werr present. Fav- orable comments from Wednesday night's audience were abundant and this reviewer concurs whole- heartedly with President Dixon Ryan· Fox who said, \It is not only the best play I have seen here, but it is the best college play I have ever seen.\ --. -·-0 --- NOTICE' All N. Y. A. students have been requested to sign an affidavit prov- ing their citizenship, or on the other hand, stating that they are not ·citizens but owe allegiance to the United States. This request should be complied with immediate- ly by reporting to Miss Travis in the Student Employment Bureau. Yale Photo Exhibition Honors Lowenthal Print 'l'HE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MARCH 3, 1939 IN THE MAIL To the Editor: ·Mechanically Minded Union Group Tours General Electric Factories Arthur Lowenthal, '41, the president of the Camera Club, was honored recently by the Yale Photographic Exhibit, when. his satire on the modern girl entitled \To Hell with Glamout'\ was chosen by the judges to .g.o on tour with other prints to Wayne University and then to the Photo Prints Gal- lery in San Francisco, Califor- nia. Dr. Zahl Returns From Second Jungle Expe diHon Your \Healthy An·imal\ seems to be a speciaJ.ist in spelling, judging from his comments in the issue of The mass production methods®--------------- February 24th. Possibly he would· and high speed efficiency ·Of mod- ttons in a series of revolutions. The Locates 1500 Foot Twin Waterfalls, Two•inch Ants .be interested in the following.: ern manufacturing were demon- final completion of the unit was Instalment some do can it, strated to a group of ·20 Union stu- viewed' in still another shop, where To me this is perverse. dents yesterday afternoon ·On a the testing of the completed prod- I hate like sin to write it, conducted tour of General ·Electric uct was carried out by a submer- To pay it is much worse. 'Company's Schenectady plant gence process to determine the air- <Continued from Page 1) At the outset, .the party was di- tightness of the tubing. Picking up a sa:rari of fHteen In- Mr. Funk says to use vided into two groups, both how- The Turbine department was ex- :· dians, each of whom carried a 65 One ell or two, as you choose. ever being shown the same manu- .amined and explanations given on The picture was exhibited at Yale University from February 15-20. The judges of the contest were Anton Br·uehl, Frank R. Graprie, and Richard Rath- bone. 'p 0 und pack, regardless of sex, Dr. Noah says two ells or one, , facturing processes. The guide ex- the methods of wi·nding the copper Zahl .and Mr. Chislett began hack- All of which adds to our fun. plained that it would ;be possible· coils and their place· in the huge ing their way through the jungle . to cover only a small .par.t of the generators which were a'lso being . waH toward the table-topped Ror- Our ·Concordiensis says · ,plant since it covers an am~a of· built in the factory, It was ex- aim?- which rises like a .pill box Two eHs are much preferred, ',about 670 acres. Just inside the plained that some of the copper with almost sheer two to three- Which oft suggests to me · ·entrance to the grounds an old coils weigh as much as 800 ,pounds. thousand foot walls, The party QuitP another shorter word. ·building was .pointed out with a Some of the turbines and coils wound its way up the only trail to plaq,ue on the wall which com- shown to the students were destined Labor Relations Subiect of Debate the top, having no time to admire memorates the founding of the for a number of go~ernment proj- To the Editor: S h t d. b h f th G a na.tural garden spot which they , c enec a Y ranc o ·' e ·en- ects 'Including the Tennessee Val- found before being beset by a fog Dear Sir: eral Electric, the explanaticm of ley Authority. such as no Londoner can remem- After l'eading Hari Karl's plea in why Schenectady was chosen be- The G. E. restaurant and cafe- Town Meeting of the Air To Consider Merits ·ber. the last issue of the Concordy for· ing given by the director o:f the teria came ifl ·fGr a KOOd share of Dr. Zahl hesitates to elaborate a student ·clubhouse, we can't but tour. questioning, the .guide telling in force our •l·t'ttle selves to wr 1 '.te at The first buHding explored', was answer to them of the function and upon his own narrow escapes-· whi~h became habitual _ but is least a few words of praise. We fHled with machinery producing seating capacity of the building Of State Labor Law more enthusiastic about his water- simply mus1. We do love the cute the first items in the construction, and of the rapid rate10f service dur- h d , d idea. It is st'm·ply lao sweet. My of refrigeration units, The vari-. ing ~he· noon hour rush. The last falls and ants. T e ·tscovery rna e The statu:; of the New York State d 1 . d dears, what a J'ov such a club·house ous steps were explained and the· building visited during the aftet•- by this expe ition even ec 1pse ' Labor Relations Act will provide the twin falls of about fifteen hun- would be! How positively .refresh- function of the machines described. noon, was the moulding depart- the topic of debate for the Empire dred. feet each which Dr. Zahl ing. Oh dear, well-it aH sounds ;The .punch presses, heating units, ment where the group watched the State Town Meeting of the Air to fourtd· last spl'ing on a tl'ibutary just too chic. After all, it's about and the bert conveyol' systems were moulding, spraying, and 'baking of be held at 2:45 o'clock on Sunday of the Karanang River. The new time somebody lilte Hari Kari as- the object of a great deal of at- a number of electrical accessories. in the Old Chapel. The discussion waterfall drops for about the same serted himself and stamped his ·tention by the members of the The students were taken to and leaders for this session of the Town distance into a \lost gorge\ bel'ow, foot down. Why should Smith have group. from the plant in a .bus which was Meeting will be the Reverend John but is far moe imposing because anything we don't have? Why,: Continuing to follow the process hired for the occasion by the col- P. Boland and Mr. Paul Windels. of Ute breadth of some fifty yards. why? why? !Now calm yourself, in refrigeration unit production, .]ege and was used without cost by Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox will act as Fearful of the roar of the water, Genevieve~) the students were ta'iten to another those attending the trip. It was Chairman. which coming from the depths of Why, boys. and we do mean you building where the motor assem- · announced that another trip would Both of the speakers have had the gorge, says Dr. Zahl, prevents boys, a student clubhouse at Union blage was being carried on, atten- be held in the near future to ac- experience in the labor relations a man \ft'Om hearing himself would be open to a million sugges- tion being especially directed to- commodate those who wished to field. Rev. Boland, who will speak think,\ Indians living three miles tions! To clarify, one chum could ward a machine, operated 'l>y one go at a time more convenient than in favor of the bill, is at present away never come near the falls, meet another chum and be just too man, which carried on six opera- the present. chairman of the State Labor Rela- which, in his repor·t to the British chummy. More than that, two lions Board. He was vice-preisdent govErnment, Dr. Zahl has suggest- chums could meet two other chums, of the Hospital Service Association ed be named for King George VL and be twice as chummy with that 'lnd of the Buffalo Sight Conserva- The world's largest ant, which delightful btand of hot air that tion Society in 1936. In 1935, be in scientific circles passes for four· bosom chums would inevitably acted as a member of the Mayor's \Di no pone I a Gt an dis,.. succumbed breathe whilst sipping their hot Committee on the Stabilization of tea or coffee or n1'bblt'ng ·on those quickly to Dr. Zahl's trick, namely, · Employment in .. Buffalo. His secu- ju.st too ooz\ Engl1'sh cru1npets routing him out of his burrow and ' Jar position is pastor of St. Colum- with yum yum jam. ba's Church in Buffalo. then capturing him with a pair of President Roosevelt has been forceps as he returned. About two Drastic Revision Urged thousand Dinoponera and an equal known to crochet. Why not call it the Roosevelt crochet clubie? You Mr. Windels will urge drastic re- n.ur.nber of their slightly less awe- ld h some cousins, the Parafonerae, cou croc et little soxs, or darling, vision of the labor act. Between the cute little sweaters in the winter years 19M and 1937, he was corpor- twhee~~ di~a·tp~~~~tneed\'asin h fll_ga~kos~ bt~et and play indoor crochet in the ation counsel for the City of New \ s · d f 11 s 1!' b ld return J. ourney. prmg an a · pe mg ees wou York, counsel for the Port of New be just too sweet to occupy those York Authority and of New York A.mong his other accomplish- horrid rainy afternoons, and bios- City Hou:;ing Authority and a mem- ments, Hasldns Laboratory's roving sorning young men could come ber of the Association Bar of New explorer is an able photogapher hither and go thither and not care York. He was also a trustee of the and has returned with some re- a darn about whether the weather Brooklyn Eagle. In 1936, he was a markable air views of the region, wer·e in a dither. member of the board of Statutory as well as shots of the natives and Consolidation of the City of New· the ants. Kithes, Perthy P.S. (The idea itse·l.f isn't bad at all) York. ------------------------------ Among 1he points which will be touched upon are the record of the State Labor Relations Board, the passage of the bill, •md who op- posed and favored it. The S. L. R. B., the American Federation of La- bor and the Committee on Indus- trial Organization, will also be con- sidered. A comparison between the New Ym·k State Act and the Wag- ner Act, which provides for a Fed- eral Labor Relations Board, will be drawn, according to infmmation received fmm Milton M. Enzer, Publicit~· Director of the College. ~----o-~- Dean Brown to Speak In Sunday Chapel Dean Emeritus Charles Reynolds Brown of Yale University, author, scholar and preacher, will deliver the sermon in chapel next Sunday. Dr. Brown, who has attended and received rlegrPe~ from seven col- leges and universities, was Dean of the Yale Divinity School between 1911 and 1928. He has lectu.red at Leland Stanford Jr. University, Cornell, Columbia, North Carolina, Harvat·d, and The Pacific School of Religion, The more recent of Dean Brown's many books and articles are: \M.ak- ing of a Minister\ \The Gospel for Mainstr<'ct\ \They Were Giants\ \Finding Ourselves\ \My Own Yes- terdays\ and \Have We Outgrown Religion?\ Dr. Bt·own has studied at the University of Iowa, Boston Univer- sity, Yale, Oberlin, Wesleyan, the Univf'r1<itv of Vermont, and in Pal- estine and Egypt. ·-- --0---- Placement Bureau Bulletin The January issue of the Place- ment Bureau Bulletin was sent out March 1 to four hundred personnel director~. giving thPm a summary of the records of the members who are seeking employment after graduation. Five bulletins, classified ' according to the divisions of Chem- istry, Business, Engineering, Teach- ing, and Writing. were mailed to· each of the four hundred .concerns. ! Eighty seniors who subscribed to the bullet in, are featured. Something Different ROMANOFF'S 224 Nott Terraoo For- that 11 p. m. snack Kosher Sandwich CALENDAR Today 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. 8:00 p. m.-Mountebanks' pro- duction, \Rosmersholm\ by Henrick Ibsen, Mountebanks Theater. Saturday 10:00 a. m. -Daily Assembly, speaker, Frederick Wyatt, '32. 4:00 p. m. - Debate, Silliman Hall, Union vs. Dayton Uni- versity, \Resolved that the United States should cease to use public funds for the pur- pose of stimulating business.\ 8:00 p. rn.-Mountebanks' pro- duction. 8:00 p. m.-Annual Glee Club concert at Binghamton, N. Y., Monday Afternoon Club. :10:00 p. m.-All College Ball, Richard Himber's orchestra, State Armory. Sunday 11:00 a. m.-Morning chapel, Dr. Charles R. Brown, Dean Emeritus, Yale University Theological School. :l:OO p. m.-Empire State Town Meeting of the Air, Old ChapeL Monday 8:00 p, m.-Mountebanks' pro- duction. Tuesday 10:00 a. m. -- Daily Assembly, speaker, Dr. G. H. Danton. 2:30 p. m.-Record Concert, Old Chapel. C.S.MOODY OPTOMETRIST 115 B'way Tel. 6-5747 Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted Three Doors from State St. ----0---- NOTICES Placement Bureau On Tuesday, March 7, Mr. Ralph Atwood of the Standard Oil Com- pany of New York will speak at a Placement Bureau discussion at the Delta Upsilon Fraternity at 6:00 o'clock. On Wednesday, March 8, Mr. A. M. Rupkey of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation of Bethlehem, Pennsyl- vania, will hold private interviews with men for their Loop course, On Thursday, March 9, a repre- sentative of the Reserve Corps of the United States Navy will show a motion picture, \Navy Wings of Gold\ for Union graduates. On Friday, March 10, Mr. 0. L. Saeter, the Albany representative of the Traveler's Insurance Com- pany will hold private interviews in Silliman hall. FREIHOFERS BREAD :-: CAKE :-: ROLLS Daily Delivery Direct to Your Home TEL. 6-4224 J. S. HANDELMAN QUALITY GROCERIES and MEATS Fresh Fruits & Vegetables Daily Fresh Butter and Eggs FREE DELIVERY Phone 6-6016 920 State St. We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests JAMES REST AU RANT 426 State St.· Jay Jewelry Co. 306 State Street WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING Library Features Union Presidents In conjunction with the Found- ers' Day celebration, the library has an exhibition of pictuJ,es of all the presidents and acting presidents of Union College from 1795 to the present date, with the exception of Dr. Edward Ellery, who was act- ing president from 1933-34. The ex- hibition also includes some of the works of these gentlemen. Mr. Helmer Webb, college libia- rian, is attempting to make a col- lection of the works of all the presidents of Union College. At the, present time, the collection lacks works by John Blair Smith, presi- dent from 1795-99, and by the Hon- orable Ira Harris, acting president from 1868-69. The collection of books on exhi- BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paints, OUs, Varnishes, GlaBs, Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY PEOPLE'S Food Market FINE FOODS and GROCERIES 1291 Rugby Rd. SUITS CLEANED • PRESSED TWO SUITS Cleaned and Pressed B~:: 93c Call for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ I G&~ GRESRS 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 bition includes four books by Pres- ident Dixon Ryan Fox, Ca.Ieb H!'ath<'oe, Gentleman C o 1 o n i s t, Ideas in Motion, Sources of Cultm·e in the Middle West, and Herbert Levi Osgood -An American Scholar. The Most Perfect Laundry W or~ in the Capital District AMERICAN A·l LAUNDRY Ph. 4-3166 1 030 Barrett St. For that midnight snack! visit The FARM Restaurants 104 and 501 STATE ST. PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. DALEY'S 414 State St. Featuring GOOD FOOD AND DRINKS Boofh and Counter Service GAZETTE PRESS PRINTERS Waite ReceivE Appoir Z-511 Vol. LXII Mouni Take 'I OnSc At AI 'A Privat1 Next Plav Tomorrov During l ban~s wHl ously with scheduled pearances favorably r ences this ginning pr• iere perfor Stevenson's May with at 7:30 in tre. Grru Mrs, Ste sion, allow tics group and exem royalty, on formance she travele tend; She thoe produ• banks orga that she ~ early, an final rehea A Priva1 nature tha period sett Friday evE it will be l former. C May 6, it modern ph 8, in both the prodm weekend t will be giv has arcus criticism ~ forman.ces. Director plained th; will be th periment tried in th Fi The Mo1 first road son this· they w:ill J Albany Ir Art. Tome o'clock the under Jan for Alban~ the actors hour Th1 president ganization which has uate Mam On Th· troupe wi mile jour: School, o Ryan Fo: second ni! ent Mr. E cure the ~ gagement either .Sy1 Jack Jack 1 Collegian~ by the SJ the form Gymnasiu concert oj Glee Clul Noted Jack Lar most of eluding 1 Williams, Dartmout where hif second P. ruary. Si yea!', be Colgate, : Lanny orchestra who carr club. A drum, ar features ing for Lanny m satHe ar numbers· included band, wl

p The was where prod- air- as ex- on huge being ex- coils proj- e Val- ca,fe- of ing in on and uilding te ctur- last after- depart- the of ssories. to and was col- cost by It was to ac- to than Pres- Caleb Culture St. ht ST. NS N.Y. s Walter, Saaf Receive Senior Appointments Z-51 1 • • Announce Subject for · Van Orden Essay Vol. LXII., No. 39 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1939 PRICE FIVE CENTS Mounh:)ha·nks Will Take 'Rosmersholm' On Scheduled Tour ~~~=====~ , STEINMETZ FILM Movies Will Feat1:1re Life of Scientist Dean Brown 'Makes Sto,ry of Jacob Theme ·of Sermon Biologists Display 'Marine Specimens Conal Life, Rare .Fish 'From Cape Cod Area Feat1:1red in Exhibit Cheney; Honorary Fellow in Arts, Returns to Union Campus I omo·rrow At Albany 11hursday 'A Private Venture' Will Be Next Play; Tryouts Hgld Tomorrow Evening During this month the Mounte- bankcs wi:H be engaged simultane- ously with two productions, having scheduled two definite road ap- pearances for Ros.mersholrn, very favorably received b~ campus audi- ences this last week-end, and be- ginning preparation for tae prem- iere performance of Mxs. C. H. Stevenwn's A Private Venture in May with tryouts tomon·ow night at 7:30 in the Mountebanks Thea- tre. Grants Initial Rights The life of Charles P. Stein- metz, late Professor of Electro- Physics,, one of .sCience's immortals, will soon be made into a full· ·length motien picture feature, alongside the cinema reproduc- tions •of the lives of Pasteur, Zola, and· Alexander Graham Bel'!. This picture wiH probably be of 'keen interest to Union students and faculty, for Dr. Steinmetz was conne~ted with Union College for 21 years: He became Professor of Electrical Engineering in ·1902 and held that position until 1913, at which time he was made Professor of Elcctr0-Physics, a chair which he o~cupied until his death in !923. A great favorite with the student body, Dr_ Steinmetz often roughed it with them at his camp on the Mohawk River, and a story is told of his conducting scientific experi- ments, determining the expendi- ture ·of energy, on the students .who took him upstream to his re- ,treat. Recounts Conversion Similar Opportunity Extended to All Men He Affirms Sunday \The Ladder That Reached the Sky,\ was the topic on which Dr. Charles R. Brown, Dean Emeritus of Yale University. spoke at the Sunday ·service in Memorial ·Chapel. Using the biblical story of Jacob An ex.hibit of live marine ani- ma'ls has been placed in the lobby .of the Biology building by the faculty of that division. High- Hghted by tadpoles that have been developed artificially, it includes· adult Leopard Frogs, a Mud Puppy, Land Hermit Crabs from the Dry rmtugas, Paradise Fish and an assortment of marine life found on Cape Cod. and Esau, Dr. Brown told how . . Jacob through deception and · The . metamorphosmg tadpoles cheatlng had gained possessiQn of were fertilized on October 11. in his olde~ brother's birthright and :the Embryology L'7bor~tory by. S. his poor half-blind father's belong- 'Grey and .z. ·~etleJeSkl. O~ul~tlOn ings. Fearing an attack by his . ~as a~llficlally mduced by prturtary brother, Jacob had to run away :·mjectrons. 48 hours before the eggs .from home. He traveled all day ,,were strrpped from_ th~ female and in the evening lay down on the ; frog. 'These eggs ordm~nly would .ground to sleep. On this night, not . have ·been deposited before Jacob had a beautiful dream in. ·Apnl, 1939. The .tadpoles have .a)- which he saw a ladder that reach- 'most developed mto frogs havmg ed the sky. He was introdU()ed for;.pr·oduced l~gs. Another ca~e the first time in his life to an-, tams - .fro!f s eggs that are other and a higher world of spir-: · hatchmg mto tadpoles. itual reality. Other Rare· Fish De~n Brow? shov;ed that Ja~ob A pair of Paradise Fish have -. To :Begin Annual Visit ·Critic o·f Theatre To Visit Several Classes Sheldon Cheney, noted author and critic, and H<:morary Fellow in Fine Arts, will ~rrive on the cam- pus tomorrow afternoon to com- mence his ann1.1al three day peri0d of residency her-e. His activities will include addresses .to various ~lasaes, round table discussions, and a chapel ta:lk rm Saturday morning. The visiting honorary fellow wm be entertained by President Dixon Ryan Fox, Professor James Green, and Mr. Edward L. Carroll, and will occupy the chambers in the Faculty Lounge 3n Ra.le Rouse re- served for honorary fellows during their visits to the campus. Mrs. Stevenson based her deci- sion, aHowing the college drama- tics group initial rights to her play and exemption from paying a royalty, on the Satm·day night pel- formance <>f Rosmershe>lm which she traveled from New York to at- tend; She was enthusiastic over the production and the Mounte- banks organization, and announced that she would be .present at an early, an intermed·iate, and the final rehearsal of her drama. A Private Ventm'<l is of such a nature tha.t it can be pl-ayed in a period setting of 1789 or 1939. On Friday evening, May 5. therefore, it will be given in the style of the former. On the followjng night, May 6, it will be presented as a modern play, and on Mo.nday, May 8, in both period settings. When the production is given for Prom weekend the fe>llowing Friday, it will be given in that setting which has aroused the most favorable criticism after the previous per-· Professor Steinmetz financed the Phi· Gamma Delta fraternity house, since he was an honorary member of that body. His portrait hangs ·in the Old Chapel, where he spoke so often to student gatherings. Some of the apparatus tha ~ he used 'in his lectures is still extant, and a number of the faculty re- ·rnember him well. had h:Ved a srnful lrfe by securmg, been ·put into another tank with material and worldly s u c c e ~s; the e::llpectation that they will re- thro~gh ungar.nly methods_ I~ spr~e, produce. The male is easily identi- o~ h1s early lrfe, Jacob realtzed m: ,fled by a fringed tail. The female h1s dreams. tha~. the Lord ~:md not' deposits her eggs in a nest of bub- forgotten h1m. How long rt takes' bles at the s.urface of the water. some people to find that out,\ Dean' _ . . • Walter, Saaf Receive Class Day Appointments Mr. Cheney was accepted as an authority on the theatre in 1914, with the publication of his book, \The New M()vement in the Thea- tre_\ Two years later he founded the now famous publication, \The Theatre Arts Monthly\ which he continued to ed3t until 1921. His reputation as a aritic and student of the dratruli was considerably en- hanced by the publication of a number of oth.el' books. In 1918 ap- peared \The Open Air Theatre,\ which was f()llowed by \Modern Art and the ·Theatre, \A Primer of Modern Art,'' and \Stage Decor- ation.\ ---0--- Topic Announced~ For 'Essay Contest Van Orden Prize Themes Due April 12; Limited To Freshman Writers forman.ces. Director Edward Carroll has ex- ''The. D_oc~?r_ in Recent. Biograph_Y plained· that, to his lm<>wledge, this and ;F1ctwn rs the subJect of th1s will be the first Ume that an ex- >years Van Orden prize es.say con- periment of this kind has been ,test for freshmen, accordrn~ to a tried in this country. , recent announcem.ent. A lrst of books, many of wh1ch have become First Trip ()f Year , best sellers, are included in the Brown commented and added, . The rnarme anrrr~ai tank mcludes \Jacob is not far from any one: Sta1·fish, Sea Urc~n;s, Sea Cucum- of us, for in him we live, and move,, ber, Mussels and llvmg coral- These and are. The Lord has been 0 ur: were colle~ted at Woodshole and dwelling place in all generations.\ are all natrve to Cape Cod. \When we say we have no sin, o we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us_ But if we confess our' sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.\ Dean Brown concluded by stating that divine renewal is always within every man's reach_ There is a ladder set up in this place and in that place and in every other place, and this ladder reaches to the sky_ Philbmatheans De bate Dayton On Pump Priming Robins and Malkan Defend Affirmative In .Saturday Meet The Mountebanks will give their announcement from which the con- Dr. Fox in County Drive first road performance of the sea- :testants are expected to draw con- For World's Fair Exhibit son this Thursday at 8:00 when· elusions. about _the recent wide- they will play Rosmersholm at the spr~ad rnterest m the medical pro- Albany Institute of History and •.fessron. Unicn debaters concluded a busy : week when William Robbins, '39, · and Willard Malkan, '41, met a team fr-om Dayton University, Day- . ton, Oh.io, in a non-decision d.ebate John Schultz, president of the senior class, announced today two senior appointments for class day exercises: to be held on the Thursday before com- mencement. Robert C. Walter of Detroit, will be class his- torian, and Robert A. Saaf, Schenectadiy, class prophet. Walter is managing editor of The Con.cordiensis, editor of the '42 Freshman Record, a member of the Philomathean Society, Hale Club, Psi Upsilon, and played on the freshman la- crosse team_ Saaf is news editor of The Concordiensis, an associate edi- tor of the '39 yearbook, mem- ber of the Classical and Inter- national Relations Club. He has been a member of the stage crew of the Mountebanks. Author ·G-:f '\The Theatre'' Mr_ Cheney•,s most famous work is the standard world history of t:he theatre entitled \The Theatre- Three Thousa..nd Years of Acting, Drama, and 'S-tagecraft\ which has had many editions since it was first published in Ul2!), Be turned from his specialty -of the theatre to a consideration of fine arts as a group. \The New World Architec- ture\ and \Expr-essionism in Art\ being the first results of this broad- ened outlook. \.Art and the Ma- chine: An Account of Industrial Design in the T-wentieth Century\ was written in collaboration with Mrs. Cheney_ Art. Tomorrow afternoon at 2:00 Among the books listed are Heis- <O'clock the production's .'ltage cr~ ler'.s· \An American Doctor's Odysc w>der Jame<;J Barford, '40, will leave' .sey/' Jager's \Doctor Here's Your for Albany with its equipment, and: Hat,\ Hertzler's \The Horse and the actors will follow at the same Buggy Doctor,\ all of which, pub- hour Thursday. Herbert Goont, lished within the last few years·, president and man~ger of the or- have opened the way for a flood of ganization, is in charge of the trip books upon the medical profession. which has ·been arranged· by Grad- Essays entered in this competi- uate Manager Milton M. Enzer, '2~. tion should be typewritten and be Schenectady County, t:he only county in the state that has not made arrangements for be- ing represented at the World's Fair, will attempt to have the deficiency remedied through the efforts of a committee of citi- zents who met last weelc with President Dixon Ryan Fox as honorary chairman. held in Silliman Hall on Saturday evening. Union argued the affirma- tive si!Le of the subject, \Resolved That tne Government's Program of 'Pump Priming' Bus in e s s be Stopped.\ Boland Discusses ·Labor Relations The most recent :Cneney work, \A World Histozy of Art,\ which ap- peared about a year ago, was re- ceived with ·Emthusiasm by critics who styled it as a complete and comprehensive historical account of practically every branch of ar.t out- side of the theat:re. This is tbe second of Mr. On Thursday, Marcll 30, the from 1500 to 3000 worf.s in length troupe will make a two hundred anti accompanied by a complete mile journey to Potsdam Normal bibliography. It must be sig.ned School, o·ne of President Dixon with a nom-de-plume and accom- Ryan Fox's alma maters, for its panied with a sealed envelope con- second night on the road. At pres~ taining the writer's real name and ent Mr. Enzer is attempting to se<- superscribed with his nom-de- cure the Mounteba,nks a second en- plume. The essays are due at the g·agement on the Potsdam trip at. Registar's Office on or before either Syracuse or WatErtown. Wednesday, April 12- The meeting was arranged through the Schenectady Ad- vertising Club. The plans for Schenectady's part in the faJ.r include four items, of which the most important to the col- lege is the operation for the d.uration of the f'air of a balopticon machine. This is a projector that will show in ro- tation 70 large photographs, in- cluding many of the coilege. Robbins and Malkan based their case on the fact that the govern- ment by \:pump priming\ was only placing an ad.ditional obstacle in the path of business recover)', and that l:n.1siness was quite ca.pa'ble o:f solving its own problems. Clark Kirby and Max Wool presented the negative argument for Dayton and decla:red that only by artificially creating purchasing power could industry be started on the way back to increased production. Jack Lanny's Band Chosen For Council Dance The Union debate was the sixth for the Dayton team in six days and the sixth in a series of twelve debates on their current eastern trip. ~~----------------------------------------~-- Met Syracuse, Hofsl'a Jack Lanny and his Imperial Collegians have been contracted I by the SJ;udent Council to play at the formal dance in the Alumni Gymnasium following the joint concert of the Union and Skidmore Glee Clubs on March H. Noted for its \t·ockin'-rhythm Jack Lanny's band has played at most of the eastern colleges, in- cluding U. S. Military .Academy, Williams, Hamilton, S y r a c u s e , Dartmouth, as well as at Union, where his orchestra played for the second All-College Ball last Feb- I uar)T. Since the beginning of the year, he has appeared at Cornell, Colgate, and Syracuse. Lanny has twelve men in his orchestra, all college graduates, who compose a glee-instrumental club. A \jammin\ trio of piano, drum, and clarinet is one of the features of th.e band. The vocaliz- ing for the group is done by Lanny and Johnny Lawrence. Ver- satile arrangements· of the dance numbers· with novelty numbers are included in the repertoire of the band, which has 'been gaining in Earlier in the week, on Wednes- day evening, Union teams were en- gaged in debates with Syracuse L'niversity and Hofstra Colleg-e of New York University. Robert Wal- ter, J·r., '39, and Sheldon Eva,ns '40, ugued in favor of an alliance with G: eat Britain in a radio debate broadcast over Station WSYR of Syracuse and Noble McCartney, '41, and Armand Fe.\genbaum, '42, encountered the woman's team f·rom Hofstra on the question of Socialized Medicine. Vera Beck and L'illian Schuttger debated the \Rockin' Rhythm\ Boys who will play at March 18th Da.nce . ai'frma tive for Jiofstra and argued that our present medical facilities made no provision for hospitializa- tion of the middle income groups and that the pressure of earning a living was forcing doctors to con- gt'egate in cities at the ex:pense of providing an adet;tuate medical serv- ice in rur·al districts. popularity during the past :four years. The interior decorations of the gymnasium for the dance will be somewhat unique, in that there will be no fraternity booths as has been customary in the past. There will be, however, a faculty booth at the south end of the gymnasium, with Lanny's orchestra installed at the north end. This· arrangement has been made necessary by the fact that the bleachers on the .floor must remain because of the intra- mural w r e s t 1 i n g a n d boxing (Continued on Page 4) I~ reply to this, McCartney and Feigenbaum argued that the cost of financing a program of socialized rnedicjne was so great as to place it ,bEly-ond the reach of the poor. Town Meeting Speaker Cites Merits of State Labor Law The Rev. Dr. John P. Boland, chairman of the New York State Labor Relations Board, told the Empire State Town Meeting of the Air, in the Old Chapel on Sunday, that the relations between em- ployer and employee are in a stage of infancy but are progressing to- ward maturity. Paul Windels·,, for- mer corporation counsel of New York City, was the second of the two speakers discussing the prob- lem -of whether or not there should be an immediate revision of the present state labor relations act. Father Boland agreed with Mr. Windels that \there is entirely too much violence, on the part of both labor and employer groups, in set- tling industrial disputes._\ But Fa- ther Boland said that this was not. the fault of the act to whose pres- ent and immediate revision he was opposed. Windels said that while no ac- cusation of unfairness has been leveled. at the State Labor Rela- tions Board, \chiefly because of the administration of Father Boland,\ such criticism has frequently been leveled at the National Labor Re- lations Board, and since the state is practically the same as the Wag- ner law under which partisan prac- tices are possible, \we should not have to depend on the particular attitude of those charged with the administration .of the law for pro- tection against abuses.\ Windels urged the state legislature to amend the act to provide separate agen- cies for prosecution and adjudica- tion. Cheney's campus visits, but he has become well a..cq1.1anited with Union College through l!is work as a mem- ber of the faculty of the Mohawk Drama Festival. Mr. Cheney\s ltin~rary will be as follows: Wednesday, March 8 Arrives in tim:e for dinner with Mr-. Carroll i~ Hale House. 7:30---.Attends Mountebanks try- outs for \A Private Venture\ in the theatre in Wash burn Hall. Thursda.y, March 9 11:20-Spea]{s to Professor Bert- rand M. Wainge:r's class in Cultural Background of Modern Life, Bailey Hall. 12:15-.Attmds Luncheon at Psi Upsilon Fraternity House. 3 :00-Holds roundtable discussion »ith students interested in the theatre arts, Hale House, Student Lounge_ 6:00---Dinner at the home of Pro- fessor Burges .fohnson. 7:30-Motors over to Albany In- stitute of Hi:sto·ry and Art_ 8:30-Performance of Henrik Ib- ~en's \Rosmersholm\ by the Mounte- banks. Frid~ay, MarClh 10 9:00-Speaks to Professor Burges Johnson'.s Fr-eshman Class in Eng- lish, WashbU'rn Hall, English semi- nar room·. 10:00-(o:pt:ional) attends Daily Assembly in Memorial Chapel. 11:2()....-;Speaks· before Professor Burges .Tohnson's class in Advanced Compositi{)n; Washburn Hall semi- nar room. 12:3()-Luu~b with President Fox:. 2:30-Roun:dtable with Play Pro- (Continued ()n Page 4)

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1939 • reason for the existence of either the Con-~ II I . ~~~~~i~:~s :~~C1~s~1::~::t :i~~~~~~ i~et~e !~~ !.••. · Dots and Dashes 1· ·. l M 0 7 ' 0 N } · dent opinion. The Concordiensis is a sup• u. ====================;;;;;::;==::=-=.!: , ,... :. Our good friend ·Clark Gable Q1nurnr FouNDED 1877 \!l Causa Per·sa Parole Assai\ Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and CistrJl.mtor u[ the Co1Jegiate Digest. The official newspaper 'Of the students of Union College. Published Tuesday and Fridays through· out the col!ege Year. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union Coll•<te Cam- pus. T~lepholle, Schenectady, 4·0133. Pulllicntlon Ofl'lce, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y, Telephone 4-·U !1 1!:11 tercd a l the Schenectady Post Ol'fi<.:e as Second Cla~s :liail Matter. Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year'; delivered a.nywhere in the Unite~Stac.:.te=s\'- __ Senior Board Frederick W. Hequembourg ..... Editor-in-Chief Psi Upsilun House-4·8710 Max Len ..................... Business Manager Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Robert C. Walter, Jr ......... Managing Editor l'si Upsilon House-4·8710 Jerome Smith ................... Sports Editor Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Robert A. Saaf ...........••...... News Editor 1133 Parkwood Blvd.-4-6182 H. Wyman. Hitchcock ............. Copy Editor Delta Upsilon House-I-7922 John Malone .... , .......... Circulation Manager 1091 Ke):es Ave.-4·6931 \-t-H .. SENTEO FOR NATIWkAL. A0VI::n1t.t;idtlG BY National Advertbing Service, Inc. College Pnblishers Represmtalive 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO ' BOS10N • LOS ARGEL!:S • S\N fHAtlC.ISGQ .Junior Editorial Bom:d C. Russell Dex·o U eorge L. Peck Christopher M. Fahy Larry Pellettier Edwin A. Fitz, Jr. Sophomo1·e Editorial Board Paul Beeker, John Lewis, John Plcillips, Sheldon C. Jenl\iH~. Hl•bert ~chulberg, Jamt.~~ E. Twining. Business Staff Rubert Eisner Jaclt Rabinowitz, l>onald Haigh, Laskar Schwa'rtz, A~thur Davis. A11dy Kay, Justin Perlstein, Stanley Greenstein, ::llyron }lills, IssU(' Editors ................ S(}phomore Board .\.~~lt'ti.llltj-1,.: Fre~hmeu ltt>Jllll\tt>r~ posed organ for the expression of student Just when everyone thought that would seem to have .been already may rest assured that we have ·JLO op-inion and has expressed ·student opinion in ·the ·spanish civil war had been scratched by the l0ng conflict. designs on Carole Lombard. W e'V\e 1 d \ d · 11· ft : never cared .a ttg for her, as act.ress t 'l1.e case of .the classJ·ca·l 1·ecords. T·he· a:dl'?l·n- .sett.e ..:or goo ' especta 'Y a er · D · \t h\ ·n · 1 o timism · ·''' ·France :s and England's recogni- · espi ~ IS I\ og1ea · · P . ''·or as woman. '.rrue, during •1\IaiJ.e is tration stirred around and said it would Uon of Franco's government, some Casado Is d_eservir:g of credit, be-, for Each Other's lighter moments cause he IS facmg a problem. she -occasionatly looks .good enoug;h C leai' the ·1'ssue up but it has not. The Stu-. unknown squirt Uke General u rel which the great ('J de· '\' Segismundo Casado has to go and sq a \>: · · · • -. w bite, but when the picture .takes derrt Council passed a proposal .to exempt overthrow the Hepublican govern- mocractes have abandoned as a a sudeten tum fOL' the dramatic she . hopeless case. He, as one man, is. oecomes gnm and ghastly_ '_r.hat students from final examinations and the me~t of Pl•emi_er Juan . Negrm tackling a problem which E_ ng-· 1 s not to say, howeve. r, tn.at ·the . , wh1ch had negotiated a \dishonor- . prop0sal passed on to the faculty for their ,able\ peace with the conquering land and France d~opped as qmckly rilm isn't entei·taining, James :Stew- as a freshma,n wtthdraws .from a art Uhac'les Coburn and .bll.CIUe approval or disapproval. The faculty payed :~a:~~rc~~~ his Italian and Ger- course he is . n:unking ~eyond the wa:tson see to that. Mr. coburn, 'PY tt tl .Oll to student opl.n!'Oll Wt.y have a ·hope __ of regammg his mteHectual the wa'i, is especially shar.·P as l'lO a en · · . . · · u . Casado has ·been fighting with the· t b 1 J• s a 1 1ty. Judge Doolittle; thls pel1ornLance representative and legislative body? It is Loyalists and has been in charge While Casado is squaring his . ..,hould double or ti'ip1e his ·tan worthless under the present conditions. ..:lf the fighting in the central zone. shoulders to make a \last night mail. .. The festering boil came .to a head d\ h h\ : when Negrin ordered the dlsSolu\ stan against t e on-rus mg lYiade for Eaeh Other p:retends . tion of the commands of Casado Franco armies, another brave man ,o :be a story of every-day· :people, READING ROOMS C d is entering his thi-rd da,y of fast- -to •be stutred w\th 1 \w· ar~·, ·hun•an : and in the southern zone. asa o ~· : took offense at this action on the ing. Mahatma Ghandi, leader and emocwn.\ Actually, it·s no lllDre a b h N N idol of millions of Indians, is fight- record of the lite of common !ollt To anyone who is at aH o servant, t e part of egrin and. set up a a- . 1 1 ff . . • tiona! Defense ·Counci:l \which wiJ.l mg the al eged de ay <Of 0 ictals Lhan ·any other movie. but there Union College Daily Assembly this year has: resist to the utmost limit\ the in- to issue promised democratic re- .'s an undeniable emotional :J)uil,- become an occasion for the students to per-.· vading Fascist armies. forms. ·the kmd to squeeze tears !rom: a. . . . d • 1 Think of the risk Senor Casado Mr. Ghandi's .fasting periods ha.ve curmp or a l:>iew.s Bureau secre- use then• mail, the mornmg paper, an Val'l- is taking. The wrath of the other. been frequent in the .pas.t, but he is.· Lary. lt S a good picture, ous other literary matters. It must be dis-' European nations will fall upon his Lighting for a cause in the only The Saint Stril~:es Baclt .fills in . . l k t d : head, because he and a handful of way he feels it is possible to win.· oetween shows. concertmg to a chape spea er O gaze own supporters seem to be the only The Indian Government officials· at a broad expanse of opened papers. But people in the world who think the would not like to be held respon-: there may be some reason for this student wLoi·nynallnisgtsthsetiwll arh.ave a chance of si'ble for the death of a man for. whom millions are praying that insolence. ln our opinion, there have been To say the least, Casado is an the fast will not endanger his life. . , f 0 • d h 1 . 0 • ·ams this year as extreme optimist. More than two- Ghandi does not fight with armies Vel J ew .,00 C ape pl 0.,1 thirds of Spain has been conquered, which sacrifice the lives of others . compared with last. It can not be expected and so he is taking the reins of He is a leader who is fighting at . that the stud.ents will pay attention to a government into his hands, which the ri>k of sacrificing his own life. speake1· who has nothing to say, and who I N T HE M A 1 L does a poor jO'b of .saying· it. It is true that there have been some good To the Concordiensis: speakel's. The Inter-Faith Team that spoke Dear Sirs: .@!ktilmornnin Editor's Note: Due to the furor aroused, and the large number of budding ro- * * • Mother, may I go out to :soe Yes, lUy Darling Daughter.? \Yes n:.y darlmg son, you n::J.a)T, Although you hadn't o\Ughter'.\ • * • Beginning today at the State is a mmor leag.ue film calleil Boy ,;laves, which attracted 1avo1a.ble notices in the Big V1ty. It is., quote, a social document, unquote. .Asso- ciated with it is The LonEJ '\'1/olt.\s Spy HWJ.t. ..J:M. Jnances which drooped after we and Laura Swift went in fD<r out- printed the Skidmore social col- door sp(}rting at the Norwicb. .Wm- umn under the title ()f \Northern ter Camival. on February 23 was, in our opinion, one of the best programs we have ever heard. Pro- fessor Ketz, who was merely substituting for the scheduled speaker, produced a talk ~;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;:;;;:;;;;;;;T;;:;;;;ue;;;s;;;d:;;ay;;;' ,;;;M;;;;;:ar;;;c:;;h;;; 7 ;;;, :;; 19 ;;; 3:;; 9 ;;:;;;;;;::;;;;;:;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;:; I that held the attention of everyone. Mr.s. Alfred W. Jones, who spoke on the work of Gad! I was surprised when, as I strolled merrily about the campus, I heard Union men discussing my last note to your excellent little sheet. As you may recall, I sug- gested a bit of a campus clubhouse for old Union. What do I hear but refined young co!legiates muttering vile oaths and whispering under their collective breath \Last nail in the fraternities coffin.\ Gents, it hurt rne. Soefal-Lights,\ we are again at- Pie Merselis still faithful to Am- tempting a risque exposal of those. herst, weekended at the same. Kay Skidmore gals who attempt to con-· Shilling, after a few days rest fess love for a Union man on from Uolgate Winter (_a.:rnival, •·off\ night and then. spend the traveled to Amherst too. Whats on rest of their time prom-trotting on the pt:ogtam 1or next. '1'/eekEJnd, various eastern cam}luses. With Kay?'\'*\ WITH MALICE TOWARD NONE the American Service Mission in Spain, was also very well received, which shows that the students will even listen to someone witl1 a t l d 'f h h th' d f' 't Now I am a fraternity man my- cause o Pea , I e as some · mg e llll e self (I just can't reveal my name to put forward and presents it well. because my brothers would literally But the educational level has dropped slaughter me), but I don't feel that an institution along the coffee shop rath€r low when the students are subjected idea would do a bit of harm. If to twenty minutes of a fencing exhibition, or one will note the number of frater- nity men in Murry's, Brandhorst's have to listen to some ancient enthusiast tell and Pearson's on any afternoon, of the days when men were men and Union he'd soon see the idiocy of that opinion. I've nothing against those WaS a COllege. establishments, but I do feel that felicitations and large sized aJllga- 'l'oni Ackerly spent the weekend tor teal'S for those who two week- at Rutland, Vt. The object of the ends ago thought their true loves \rip was the person whose init.!als were tossing and turning in their are J. T. (Ask Toni a:bo,ut tb.e par- beds at home, and not on D.K.E. ticulars.) Gues.'l it's tirne we put or Theta Chi couches, I remain, this column to bed?***'\'\' .a.nd ad- Regretfully, mit that that's all there is, tbere ain t no more news. The Hoortbre.aker. SOCIAL NEWS Editorial Comm.en.t *don't keep us in the d~~rlt please, Whose? **and beer and gin. There comes a time in the life of any man when he has to receive a bit of criticism; there comes a time in the existence of any government when it too has to listen to criti- cism from its subjects. We feel that the time has arrived for om· government here on the campus to be taken to task. Three months ago a proposal was handed to the administration pertaining to the exemptbn of students from examinations. The admin- istration has done nothing about it. Three weeks ago the Concordiensis suggested a change in the location of the place where the classical records should be kept. The admin- istration offered to take care of the problem. As yet nothing has been done. Dear Girls, We think that it is quite possible to pre- a Union shop <pun intentional) for ''**come, come, don't be -eo~, ~ll us Union men would be far better. Annapolis, West Point, R. P. I., all about it. sent chapel programs that are not a waste Yale and Amherst were definitely . h t h t Then, too, I've nothing against on the map last weekend. Dottie ****men I hope! of time. It has been shown m t e pas t a ' the man who wrote that excellent Bell went to Annapolis to check the students are more than willing to listen (Written) editorial but I believe on the object of her affections, and *****Sa.turday and Suncla.y I hope. *****~that's better tluiiL <Jn the press! h . d W that Hale House will never serve Dottie says its definitely not the and applaud someone W 0 IS goo · e urge the correct purpose. Its air of for-' uniform, it's his personality! Teddy ---o,--- the administration to alleviate the situation mality is too great. Williams, one of the cutest of the before the Daily Assembly becomes the. Enough of this, gentlemen. I've young 'uns* also followed the long, E 'h It another bone to pick. How is it long trail to Annapolis, taking XC ange em At the meeting of the Student Council on December 7th, Stanley Luke, '39, made the morning· reading class. that the committee on athletics or Kay Cole along as a blind (how was Mr. Wittner do not provide meals he Kay)? When a recent exchange copy of The Concordiensis found its way to Lehigh University, The Brown and W'hite, et al, the menbers of said University and publiaation eyed a front page story in. the hopes of finding material •for hum- orou.'l comment in one of :tbeir col- umn.'>. After reading beyond the headline and lead their .hopes :faded and with reluctance they .published a mild approval in the last issue of the E!·own and White Qf tb.e .stand taken by the adn:j.inistration ·in the clarification by Pres.ident Fox of the campus beer situation. proposal that the students, at the discretion OUR COLLEGIATE BRETHREN of the professors, be exempt f1·om final ex- A feature article in the COLUMBIA SPECTATOR aminations. The proposal met with the ap- indicating the opinion of the sophomore class toward suitable \dress'' for prom-trotting social bounds proval of the council and wa.s passed on to shows a distinct differentiation between the social President Fox for his opinion. Feeling that inclinations of the second year men at the Morning- side Heights institution and certain members of om it was up to the faculty to either disapprove highly esteemed• student council. At the last meet- or approve the proposal, the president ing of the Council, one of the members pr(}posed tlw.t the Student CoWicil Dance should be an infornml passed it on to the heads of the various de- affair, for, as the proposer so blun1lly put it, the partments. Even this hl'anch of the admin- Union student body is fed up with going to da.n~ · · h f '1 d k · h in formal attire. The Columbia sophomores were re- Istl·atwn as a1 e to ta e any actiOn on t e cently polled on whether they preferred attending mattel'. 1Jheir annuaJ February Prom in top bat or slii:tt 0 F b 17 th th C d . · sleeves? The results-: 100 per cent iti favor i!f the n e ruary .· · e on coT I ens Is sug- top hat proposal. Apparently the era o:f· the \saloo~ gested that the records owned by the college dance\ is defintely on the way out. be placed in the library and allowed to cir- The Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn reaently canvassed 196 upperdassmen on the question of culate among the students in the same man- whether their college paper should oarry ·beer ad- ner in which the books are .circulated. Oppo- vertising. The final results indicated that 178 stu- dents not >Only accept the idea of reading a little sition was met in this matter from Dr. Tid- beer advertising with the college new.'l 1 but many marsh, but the administration has stated insisted· that such adverUsing would brighten the pages of a newspaper altogether too \dry\ in its that it is of the same opinion that the stu- other departments. Of the 18 men opposed to beer dents are and even said that it would study advertising, only five expressed thern.'lelves as op· th bl d k f . posed to the drinking of beet•, One, indeed, ventured e pro em an ta e de imte steps to rem- that advertising beer was insuliing to the beverage edy it. The administration has done nothing itself. Most of the proponents ·felt that advertising t d h . 't · beer was like campaigning for :fresh >air or water. 0 reme Y t IS Sl uatwn. One wag said, \We must have our beer. The B:ritish Why this seeming disinte1·est and leth- navy gets rum in its rations·; we drink discreetly of th · tl d · · · d the amber fluid and. long may it flow!\ Although argy on e part of le a 1111l11Stratwn an. beer advertising is forbidden to Union publications, the faculty toward student action? We are several other colleges of crur own size and kind; b · · t b l' th t th d · • t t' · namely, Rochester, Amherst, Hoba:rt, Siena, and R. egmmng 0 e !eve a e a mmLS ra lOTI P. I. a.Jlow their publication.s to tap this lucrative and faculty place no value at all on student advertising field; and why not? opinion. It certainly is a condition which Union students may recalL the controversy sur- rounding the appointment of Senator Arthur H. Van- should not exist in a college administrative denburg, Republicail1 from \Mitztgan\, as Ho11orary body or in a college faculty. When a man Chancellor last year. Many interested alummi, J>tU- . dents, and· townspeople criticized this appointment choses teaching- as a profession, it seems to on the grounds that Union should! stay out. of' poli- us that he has chosen a. profession in which tical issues, Hiowever the maJority of Union wellr- wishers felt that it was only fair to hear all sld'es he should be merely interested in passing of any question, and· Mr. Vandenburg's appointme11t his knowledge on to others and willing to did not necessarily mean that we were Republican. For this reason. we IIJ.\e higbltf gratified to see tbat : act as a guide to ·students and to take an in- this possible nominee for the presidency of the for the football playe:rs when they West Point was fortunate to return to the campus in the fall have Mary Averill, Betty Jamieson four days earlier than their fellow and Frances Whittington in their students? Fraternity house tables midst. R. P. I. had quite a repr·e- are not functioning and the boys sentative group at their Junior must trip downtown three times a Prom, Phil Verway stuck to the day to feed themselves. Besides, Dekes through thick and thin.** the food costs eaeh man, depend- Adele Bagg, Marcia Burnett, Ruth ing on appetite, from five to fifteen Carpenter, Evelyn Ne.jgh, Marion sq:~ackers. This, I assure you, Ogden and Jo. Lahr were the other creates an awful lot of grumbling. gitls who left us for those he-men If the college will not provide a engineers. training table for these boys, (and Jessie Crumback an.d Bobby Coolt, f am pretty sure it will not) at chaperoned by Miss Creasy, hit least let them provide a common the trail for Wesleyan through 600 eating place where the food will be miles of snow, rain and. sleet <quote good, plentiful and ~heap. Jess unquote) 'Twas an eye opening And as a parting shot, what's all experience from all we heard.*** this babble about A:rtie Shaw? I Elaine Oberwager once again understand (straight from the de.'lerted the joys of Saratoga for horse) that L'il Arthur will be in Yale. Alma Steiner, Betty Ester, Hollywood, midst pretty gals, mak- Marry Wright, Jean Lee Lishbey ing flickers at prom time. For and Natalie Hatch were the other shame, Mr. Wade. For shame, Mr. deserters and from all reports none Dwyer. of them regretted leaving us. (We Fervently, Hari-Kari can't underSitand what New Haven has that Saratoga hasn't.***\) Dorthy Fisher struck out for the U. of R. Louis Hull, Betina Loheed Of interest to Union. sttLdents was an additional comment i:n the sam€ column of the Bro-wn. and White apropos to the Sante sub- ject-that of liquor and :a. c<>llege or university campus. Starting TODAY! \BOY SLAVES\ ~ltll A.nne Sllirley, Roger ·Daniel 2nd Smttsh Hit! \THE LONE WOI.F sp-y· JIUNT\ with Warren ~Vllllam, ld11· :Ln}l!no Something New at the BOOKSTORE \The Pause That Refreshes\ ICE COLD COCA COLA • • • SUGGESTED READINGS ON RENTAL FOR VAN ORDEN ESSAY PRIZE Freshmen! Here's Your Opportunity! terest in the activities of students. United States in the 1940 elections bas been ellosen I T th . d't · ·1 as the Commencement Speaker at tbe 68th gr!l>du.- 0 sum · IS e 1 orra up we can see no j ation exercises at Syracuse University. ; '--------------' :Baseb To GE lnGy Enf.ire In Cal Permii Varsity • gathe1· his day as ba ·dally sta1· in the gyn er permit! Workme eage on t so that t to start diately. C that he v everything outline oJ ting drill, and ·bunt The bat ing a ba week and eye of 1 .pects -for appear ~ pitchers ·of whom before. \: last year' vealed ye hip. He 1 up strem week. No have com Among pected to ing berth1 man twir inson, AI Keers round ou dications, Yunich, 1 prise the Ciesinski, year, ha,.., ably will Among port to C infielders nett, Ca Carr, 1 Holmes fielders man, Ch1 zon,and lntram CTh Phi Garr Psi Upsi Delta UI Lambda Phi Delt Delta P Kappa E Beta Th Phi Sigx: Chi Psi Kappa l Kappa\ Neutral! Theta I Phi Sig1 Delta C Sigma I Alpha I North C South C Neutral Psi Up Phi Sig Kappa Lambd: :Delta J Beta T Kappa Phi De Phi Ga Delta· Theta Phi Sil Chi P1 Delta Kappa Sigma Oldgyr • Notic Can< freshn report on th 4:30 p. nasiur Pit 63 22 20 10

] le l_O i'\e ss IJ.C lt.s !:h :es be tat be W• Ue 'PY as l<CC :an tds ~le, tan l a oll• e1·e 1,- l a :re· In e is Boy a.ble tote, .sso- ol:l.'s tid. out- IVm- Am.· Kay rest tival, son tend, k:.end ' the ltials par- put I ad· tbere lease, e.llus hope. the py of way l-rown )XS of :ation .l_ the hum- lr col- ci the ;faded Ushed ~ue of .stand in the 'ox of 11.dents i:n the l. and l sub- :<>llege lei UNT\ lJ)illO Base baU Practice r o Get Unde,rway l'n Gym Today John Senn '4l Elected Ski Team Captain March .5.-John 'Senn '41 ·of Schenectady was elected cap- tain of the 1939-40 ski, team at THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1939 Foils Team Gives Exhibition SPORT MART DY Hudson H. Tanner Page ThrQ' BrHtin Captures New Swim TiHe Entire Squad to Work In Cage Until Weather 'Permits Outdoor 'Sessions a meeting of all H1e lettermen today. Senn has consistently proved himself to be :steady and a brilliant skier ·i·n the two years he has represented Union. The appointment ·of 'Senn was LaSal'le DeVince Representatives Trace Evolution of Fencing Burt Brittin, '40, recently elected captain of the Ul40 varsity swim- In the attempt to bring out a broader view of athletics at Union ming team, won the North New this column has been started by The Concordiensis for the interest Jersey championship for the 50 of the reader. Any articles however slight in interest will be welcomed yard dash at Jersey City Friday by the writer and will be given due consideration. night. His time was :25.2, six-tenths W·e were over at RPI in the 'big, new Trojan gymnasium a couple· of one second less than his best of weeks ago to one of the hottest basketball games that the Engineers time during the past season. Varsity Coach Art Lawrence will announced today by Andrew Union's en t e r .p r i s in g fencing gather his enUre squa:d together to- Vanderbilt '39, ma:nager ,of the squad witnesoed an exhibition by day as baseball practice will offi- team. Robert Corb-y '41, of one of the most prominent fenc- ·cia!Iy start. Sessions will be held. Englewood, N. J., was named as ing groups in the country when in the gymnasium until the weath- assistant manager for next sea- the team from the La SaUe de and Dutchmen have played for quite a time. After we left the gym The Union captain-elect was rep- to come back we couldn't help but think about a little editorial which re~enting the People's Palace team appeared in the RPI paper on February 16. We quote: of Jersey City which won the team \Here at RPI good sportsmans·hip plays an important part in our truphy. Besides his participation study of engineering. Our gym department has been striving towards in the 50-yard event, Brittin finish- er permits outdoor workouts. son. He wiH act 'in the captLCity Vince Fencing Sa'lon of New York Workmen hoisted the batting of manager, however. City performed here last Saturday cage on the gym floor yesterday, Senn succeeds Coach Warren afterno~n. The exhibition was ar- this• goal year after year: and eo far has done an excellent job.\ ed second in the 100 yard dash. Perhaps the writer of the above had good intentions, but after so that the .players will .be able Gammons '39 as leader O·f the ranged by Coach Merton F. Zubt·es 0 start batting practice imme- team. It is still a matter of .con- and the athletic department. diately. ·Coach Lawrence reports jecture as to whether Gammons Befot:e actually fencing, the visi- lhat he will have his men doing wHI remain as .coach. Athletic tors briefly described the evolu- everything .possible in the cage. The Director Wittner cannot say at tion of the art from the time that outline of training includes ·bat- present as he ·is not certain swordsmen can·ied weapons over 25 that Satut·day night we're afraid his gym department will have to go He also swam the free-style in awfully far if lt expects to reach that goal. A few examples of why t:he medley relay event which the we felt bO-the whistling at the fair sex entering before the game ... People's Palace team won. He was the remarks made by one of the RPI basketball players in the locker also a member of the Palace team's room before the game ... the lack of respect shown a visiting coach 400 yard free-style relay which also placed first in this event. ·by the students and older people adjacent to Union's bench .•. the ting drill, pepper games, throwing where Gammons will be located pounds in weight down to the pres- and ·bunt fielding. after he graduates .th.is June. ent era of light blades. They com- The battery men bave been toss· mented also on the change in the ng a ban around for the past Attention Non-Swimmers spirit of fendng. A few centuries start of the mass surge to the caurt when a Union .forward uninten- Brittin was competing against tionally fell over an RPI forward ... the booing of the official despite several college swimmers, among their eamest attempts ... and many others. them being member'S of the Rut- We can compliment one .person, though, and that's RPI's tall cen- gers, Lehigh, John Marshall, and ter, Rusty Carmen. He played one of the best games of any opponent New York University varsities dur- which faced a Union team this year. But he did more. He came into ing the past seas.on . week and a half under the guiding ago, when the heavy swords were .eye af Mentor La;wrence. Pros- The following students have not affected, the point of the battle the locker room after the game and thanked Union's team for a swell game and told them it was \a tough one to lose, fellows.\ . pects .for a brilliant hurling corps passed the required :swimming te:st. was to kill one's opponent. Because appear good. Four experienced They are requested to report .to the ·Of the weight 'Of the sword, dis- pitchers will be available, three Pool Attendant and ta!ke the test ,arming an opponent was a very of whom have played varsity ball at their first convenience. difficult task. Men went around the :before. \Swede\ Hanson, one of 1940-Cimorelli, M.; Egan, R. A.; countryside teaching ambitious Wittner to Coach Ping Pong Res~:~lts last year's starters, Lawrence re- Fallon, W. A.; FitzSimons, J.; Hill, .duelists the art of wielding such a vealed yesterday, has injured his P. T.; Humphrey, M. A.; McLeod, weapon until it finally went out of F~ reshman Basebal.l To date, ali but two of the first hip. He has been ordered .to give K. A.; Sweet, A. E.; Waite, D. J. ·vogue. t·ound matches have been played. up strenuous work for about a 1941-Albright, W . .A,; Bruesch, The La Salle de Vince team The deadline for these matches is week. None of the other hurlers C. J.; Cerasano, E. A.; Conner, H. thrilled the local swordsmen when Professor J. Harold Wittner, ath-' Wednesday, March 8. The results: have come up with any injuries. F.; DeMottea, R. E.; Erics·on, R. they gave exhibitions of some of letic director, will resume his duties Sigma Phi t3), Phi Delta Theta I Among the pitchers who are ex- P.; Fitzsimmons, R.. M.; LaCerva, the old types of dueling. At one as an athletic coach at Union Col- (2); Neutrals (4), Phi Gamma Delta pected to be called on for start- S. P.; MacKenzie, K: E.; Male, R. era, it was fa.shionable to grab lege after a lapse of seven years II <ll; Phi Sigma Delta <51, Delta ing berths are Roger Moran, fresh- ·F.; McCartney, .A. N.; McManus, one's adversary by a leg, throw him when he begins his assignment as Upsilon II (0); Sigma Chi (4), man twirler a year ago, Chet Rob- J. J.; Murray, W. G.; Nadler, H. to the ground and then run the freshman baseball coach within the Kappa Alpha ( 1.); North College inson, Al Mould and Hanson. Ed 0.; Ottentot, E. M.; Porter, J. H.; sword through his body, The group next two or three weeks. <4), Delta Phi (1); Kappa Sigma Keer ·s and Mike Fiester will· Rickard, D. M.; Shanley, J. P.; also fenced with the epee, the mod- (4), Alpha Delta Phi ell; Chi Psi Th k E Director Wittner left the coach's round out the staff. From all in-· ac erray, . J.; Viseusi, W. ern weapon most nearly resembling <5), Lambda Chi Alpha (Q); Phi 1942 B W B' d c bench in 1931 when he succeeded dl 'cations, Harry PaJmer and Dave. - est, . ; Ir sal!, W, :; the dueling sword. Gamma Delta I < 4), Psi Upsilon Bl k D K B 't Harold A. Bruce as athletic direc- Yunich, both lettermen, will com- a e, · .; · u ten, H. H.; After the visitors performed, (1). C t W R C 1 G R D 1 d . f 1 'th h tor. During his coaching years, Th t t h d P rise the backsto»ping·corps. Adam. oa es, . .; o es, . .; oy e, they fence m Ol\ma ly wt · t e e wo rna c es unpla.ye are r T J D tt B T Eh k J . . t h 1 Mr. Wittner handled varsity and· K N B T d Cl ·esinskl·, yearling catcher last . .; uque e, . .; rc e, . ·Garnet squad, gtvmg hem e p- appa u vs. eta heta Pi an W F l b A \r F ld freshman baseball teams for ten p Year' has an l ·nJ·ured leg and prob- .; e gen aum, , '.; e man, ful aids in the course of the bouts. hi Delta Theta II vs. Delta Upsilon L L · c · · 1 seasons. He has also coached fresh\ · ably will ·not report. · .; Fischer, A. .; Fttzpatrlct, Among the New York delegation· b .{. - R D F M N F J E man basketball and foot all. -;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;:;;;;:;;:;;:;;;,; Among those men expected to re- · ·; ogg, · .; oley, . . ; were three well known women fr port to Coach Law~ence today are Forse, R. W.; Genova, J.; Giles, J. fencers, the most prominent of At present the freshman base- infielders 'Fred Patrie, Bob Gar- A.; -Goldberg, D.; Guerry, W. A.; which was Miss Maria Cerra, Wom- baH schedule has not been com- nett, Captain Frank Myers, Lou Hart, C. A.; Hill, W. D.; Hillick, en's Intercollegiate Champion. The oleted. Mr. Wittner reported that J S · Horsman W B · Hoi\\on W t' 11 fa t there was a great deal of difficulty carr, Mickey Rathlev, Dudley · ·• , · .. , ' , · women were excep 10na y s, ac- Holmes and Alex Turchick; out- F .. ; Horton, W. F.; Johnson, F. VI'.; cording to reports· received from in arranging freshman schedules fielders Billy Thomas, Bob Feld- Keeler, C. B.; Kelch, E. C.; Killian, Union men who fenced against because of a broadened interpreta- man, Charley Brockner, Jal'e Ama- R. K,; King, E. T.; Knopf, A.; them. tion of the state ruling which pro- zan, and Diamond Marotta. Kohlenberg, S. G.; Landry, P. J.; ---o•--- hibits college freshman teams from Levine, L.; Lichte, W. J.; Little, INTRAMU.RALS playing high school sqUads. At R. W.; Lindeberg, J, .A.; Loughran, first, the ruling was enforced in ---·0·--- Intramural Totals J. A.; MacDonald, J. E.; Mills, M.; · football only but now its authoz·- Mudge, J. W.; Orton, A. S.; Par- Handball ity has been extended to all sports. (Through Mat·ch 4, 1939) Phi Gamma Delta . . .. . .. . 639.529 Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609.383 Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600.528 Lambda Chi Alpha . . . . . . . . 582.929 Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . 559.258 Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 556.150 Kappa Sigma . . . . .. . . . . . . . 548.568 Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . 544.042 Phi Sigma Delta . . . . . . . . . . 530.360 Chi Psi .. .. . .. . . . .. . .. .. . . 528.403 Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 502.844 Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . . 491.211 Neutrals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 441.619 Theta Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . 380.551 Phi Sigma Kappa .. , . . . . . 330.932 Delta Chi . . .. .. . .. .. . .. . . 330.236 Sigma Phi . . .. . .. .. .. . .. . . 300.679 Alpha Delta Phi .... , . . . . . 139,147 North College . . . . . . . . . . . . 135.340 South College . . . . . . . . . . . . 150.701 s~m, T, L.; Poole, J, A.; Rasso, A. The pairings are posted on the \This wm not only curtail the E.; Rifenbark, H. E.; Rooney, J. bulletin board in the gymnasium. freshman at!!~etic activity of small- L.; Royce, c. P.; Sammons, H. R.; The semi-final round of each flight er colleges such as Union, R. P. I., Shell, G. H.; Smith, H. E.; Spezia!i, must be completed not later than and Hamilton,'' Mr. Wittner said, A.; Stanco, M. A.; Stevens, D. L.; Saturday, Mat·ch 11, Contestants \but it may force us to abandon Swart, w. F.; Thyne, F. S.; Van must arrange their own matches. freshman teams all together.\ Aernum, J. H.; Van Zandt, w. K.; Boxing and Wrestling Walker, E. D.; WarcLell, E. R.; Boxing and wrestling classes are Weider, J. C.; Weller, W. E.; Will- held under the supervision of Mr. son, R. H.; Woodward,~- E.; Yuen, Fitz and Mr. Ketz, respectively,·· s. K. from 4:30 p. m. to 5:30 p. m., daily ___ , 0 ___ in the gymnasium. The pairings GRIDSTERS TO SEE MOWES for the boxing and wrestling tour- Movies deallng wlt:h parts of the neys will be posted on the ground Cornell-Dartmouth, Harvard-Ya.le, floor ·Of the gymnasium on Satur- day, March 11. Colgate-Army, and the Notre Dame- Northwestern football games will be shown to members of last year's football team on Wednesday at 8 o'clock In the trophy room. Results of Basketball\21 \ Men Entrance Olmpetlng Victories Forfeits Points Neutrals . . . . . . . . . . .. . 18 47. 1 35.000 Psi Upsilon , . . . . . . . . . 28 34 0 35.000 Phi Sigma Delta . . .. . 20 32 0 35.000 Kappa Nu .. .. . .. . . .. . 18 25 0 35.000 I..ambda Chi Alpha .. . 17 21 0 35.000 Delta Phi .... ; .... , . . 24 26 1 35.000 Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . • 29 18 0 35.000 Kappa Sigma ..... , . . 13 17 0 35.000 Phi Delta Theta . • . . . . 22 23 1 35.000 Phi Gamma Delta . . . . 11 14 0 35.000 Additio>nal Pomts T()tal THESES TYPED Quic:lcly and Ac:c:uratefy MISS 1\1. H. BRYSON 854 Eastern Ave. Phone 6-809~ Iteasorutble Rates C.S.MOODY OPTOMETRIST 115 B'way Tel. 6·5747 Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted Three Doors from State St. DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM We Serve Good ·Food for Good Health. 118-120 Jp,y St. Opp. New City Hall J. S. HANDELMAN QUALITY GROCERIES and MEATS Fresh Fruits & Vegetables Daily Fresh Butter and Eggs FREE DELIVERY Phone 6-60 I b 920 State St. Delta Upsilon ..•. , . . . 21 14 0 35.000 Theta Delta Chi ..• , . . 9 8 0 35.000 65.000 90.000 47.022 82,022 44.256 79,256 34.575 69.575 29.043 64.043 35.958 60.958 24.894 59.894 23.511 58.511 31.809 56.809 19.3.62 54.362 19.362 54.362 11.064 46.064 16,596 4.1.596 ALWAYS INSIST UPON SEAL TEST Phi Sigma Kappa . • . . 14 12 1 25.000 Chi Psi .. .. .. .. .. . .. . 13 3 0 35.000 Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 6 1 35.000 Kappa Alpha ..... , . . 23 13 2 35.000 Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . . . 8 5 2 35.000 Oldgym Hall .. , ... , . . 1 3 0 .000. 4.149 39.149 8.298 33.298 17.979 32.979 6.915 21.915 4.149 1.149 SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food-Always Open One Step from State St. lntcresti!d in Schenutady hzterl!sted in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Strut JI!'WciN' 166 JAY STREET Watch and J ewe/ry ReplliritliJ a Specialty PARKER and W ATERI\.IAN PENS Free Delivery Phone 4.7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Quality • Service Satisfaction\ 598 B'w•y - o;., Belt\ V •lu\ \ Bellevue 9uality Bakery 26~5 Broadwa:~o Phone 4-62t8 BREAD • ROLLS - PASTRY CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY, Inc;, 1858 Hamburg St. P H 0 N E 2·0 9 1 6 PHONE 4-5614 Everything Eleetrleal JAS. F BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY PHONE 4·2553 302 Individual Champion-Marvin Dwore Runner-up-David Miller FRO-JOY and JERSEY ICE CREAM Schenectady Engraving Co. • Notice Candidates for the varsity •and freshman track squads may still report. The two groups meet daily on the board> traclt from 2:30 to 4:30p.m. See Mr. Retz in the gym- nasium or on the track. The Most Perfect Laundry Work in the Capital District AMERICAN A-1 LAUNDRY Ph. 4·3166 1030 Ba~rrett St. CLOVERLAND CREAMERY Phone 6·8104 633 State St. 226 Nott Ter. 204 Union St. 1009 Chrisler Ave. FOR PROMPT SE.RVICE 919 State St. PHONE. 6-3456 147 JAY ST. PINE GROVE DAIRY Inc. ENGRAVERS FOR THE 118 S. Ferry St. Schenectady, N. Y. CONCORDIENSIS LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway Phones 4·3364. 4·3365 Gazette Press Jay Jewelry Co. 306 State Street Printing WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1939 Dro Zahl Discovers large Waterfa lis in British Guiana <!;>,---=----------------------- By M. M. ENZER, '29 Dr. Paul Arthur Zahl has lived most of hi's life in California, al-. though he VIas born in a suburb of Ch-icago, March 20, 1910. He pre- pared for college in Sacramente>,· Calif. High School. Paul's brothers · a1•e Dr. Harold A. Zahl, physicist with U. S. War Department and stationed in New Jersey; and Dr. Wesley H. Zahl, physician practic- ing in Chicago. Sisters: one ·is edi- tor of Loganspo1·t Press, Indiana,:· a.nd other lives with father, retire<! Protestant clergyman, in Sacra- mento. A strong wanderlust seized Paul at an early age. A bright, in fact 'brilliant stadent, he never.theles> went from ,one college to anothen a.nd following his graduation work- ed his way for a year on fishing vessels in the Pacific along the Canadian and Alaskan shores. He began his collegiate educatie>n at Marque~te Umversity, transtel·· ·ret! ta .Nunb.westcrn Umversity artu ended up al North Central College, (Ill.) whet·e his lather had p!:epa!ea fur tne m1n1stry, 111 11:!32 . .tlle next yea1· he \ttan.:Jet!\ in the Paci!1.c, and there ·determined to pursue the .,;t udy of the biological scwnces in which he had maJored in coHcge. While at .North Central Co.Jcgc .tJC pubilshed .a scientific paper in \Jou1nal of Expc:nincntal 'Z;uowgy and 111 \American Naturalist.\ ttecognized by Harvard Harvard UniversJty overlooked the spotty collegiate wa,ndenngs ot Paul .but recognized hts cuntnb·U· tions to science in these journals and offered a University schola.r- smp which he accepted in fall, 1933. Next year he received his Ma.ster'·s degree and dw·mg next two years while working tor his doctorate degree he also held an Austin teaching fellowship in biol- ogy. After getting his P.h.D. degr~e in 1936, he conducted advance re- search as a post-doctorate Parke, Davis fellow in physiology. Sin.ce 1937 he has .been a research asso- cia-te in the Haskin.s Laboratory of Uni<Jn College. This was his third trip to Sottth and Central America. He acco:m- panied his chief, Dr. Caryl P. Has- kins,-also a young scientist-to Panama region where he first hunt- ed the Ponerine ant. Last May he conducted another scientific expe<li- tion to British Guiana and not only 1·eturn.ed with what is believed t.he first Jiving specimens of the Paxa.- ponera ant-about 1\ long-which is poisonous, and, also discovered the world'\ highest waterfalls, a. double drop of 3,000 feet. ,.,.,_, .. ,.J '· ,,.,,~·>·'\''''' ',.~ ~~-:~~\:~~ ... ;f:_Jj The world's greatest wate~·ftalls discovered and named foi' King George VI by Dr. Paul 1\., Zalil on his recent expedition. is estimated 800 feet high. The lat· ter, located on Kurupung river, he· has not found on any map, but he still i:> uncertain whether he was first to see it. He is certain he w.as first to photograph it. Discovered idyllic Indian village never before visited by white m-en where \practically perfect human relations obtain.\ Broke all record.s for reaching Mt. Roraima, the 10,000 .feet high plateau of jagged diffs which Conan Doyle called the \Lost World.\ Dr. Zahl accomplished this feat by flying for first time over the extremely hazardous festering jungle for 250 miles !n 3 hours in hydroplane piloted by Art Williams, then cutting a trail through jungle for remaining 50 miles in six weeks. Previous expeditions have required months to negotiate distance. Dr. Zahl has brought back the first airplane, f.irst natural colored \stills\ and \motion picture\ of the Mt. Roraima region, the Indians- who may become neighbors of the European refugees who may plan to settle there-and the waterfalls. CALENDAR Today 6:30 ,p. m.-P1acement Discus- sion-Ralph E. Atwood, .So- cony-Vaclillm OH Company, Delta UpsiloH. Tomorrow 10:00 a. r.1. -- Daily Assembly- Speaker, Feliciano J. Gon- za e:;, '41, Memorial Chapel. 2;00 p. m. -· Placement Inter- v;ews-A. M. Rupkey, Bethle- her:l Steel Company, Slli- man Hall. 8:00 p. m.-Society of Engineers of Eastern New York- SpeakeJ·,. Mr. H. A. Mohr, Raymond Conctoete Pile Com- Pan y , \Foundations 0 1 d: Chapel. Thm-sday 1@:00 a. r..1. - DaHy Assembly- Spealrer to be announced, ll:Iemcrial Chapel. l·lu. ct:!ent Inlet views- Spen- cer F. vVea ver, U. S. Naval Rese:·ve Aviation Corps, Silli- r.':m Halt. Motion picture, Old Chap('!. 7:30 p. m. Theta Nu Epsilon llieeting Dr. Ligon's Office. 7:30p.m.- l';,'Jarnid Club Meet- in-g--Sil!iman Hall'. 8:00 p. m. Lecture, Memorial Ch1pel, Speaker, Dr. James G. McDonald, Director of Bt oo!tlyn Institute of Arts and Sciences. r.·iday 10·00 a. 1'!\. Daily Assembly- Reri• ,tl, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, !11emoria1 ChapP! ~·ro p. m. .Plarpment Inter- dews Mr 0 L. f\aether. TtavelPrs Insurance Com- pany, Silliman Hall. NOTICE' Glee Club Gives Four Concerts During Binghamton Weekend Trip By EDWIN A. FITZ. '4Q The Union College Glee Club, directly afterwa·rd they had to re- .. during its week-end stay in Bing- ·turn to Binghamton for another : hamton, N. Y., presented four pro- program at the Chenango Street grams of choral music, including a. M. E. Church. This second program .erma! concert at the Monday Aft-. was a joint affair with the Bach ernoon Club on Saturday night. Of' Glee Club of Binghamton, directed · the three programs given in vari-. by Thornton Whipple, '34, who had ous churches an Sunday, the an- been student leader of the Union nual concert In .the West Presby- Glee Club while an undergraduate ter!an Church in the evening was· here. The two clubs united in the the best 'attended and the best re-. singing of Sibelius' On Great Lone ~e.ved of the faur. · Hills. The selected group of 28 men After spending Sunday afternoon from the club who made the trip free from any scheduled engage- were entertained at a dinner party' ments, the group assembled again in the Lounge Bar on saturday • for a concert at the West Pres- \vening before the concert. This byterian Church at 7:30 p. m. The affair was sponsored· by the Delta .program opened with Li'szt's Les Kappa SoroJity, membe<·s of which Pr!'lude>s, played by Dr. Tidmarsh were palled . 0 ff with Glee Club on the powerful church organ. Aft- men for dates for the week-end. er the opening ·devotional exercises :J.nd the invocation, the Union Choir Tl~e concet t was scheduled for 8, sang a group of three numbers: p. m. at the Monday Afternoon· 'God Be in 1\ly Head, Ave Maria, ~·tub, and by that time, an audi- and The Lord's P~ayer. Dr. Tid- ·C.lCe of encouraging size had assem- marsh played next selections by bled in the concert hall. The pro- two French composer: The Girl gt·am pleocnted by the club was With the Flaxen Hair and Clair de Js~enLaUy ·the same as the one i..une by Debussy, and Spinning 6· ven in New Yorl\ two weeks ago. .5ong and Final by Dupr-e. During fhe one new song un the pro- ~he offertory,. Dr. T,idmarsh played g1 :.m was sung a~ a novelty num- the Toccata from Widor's Fifth ber by .the double qu:u tet: a humor- Symphony. The choir was heard ous a1rangement of the familiar again, this time si-nging Hail, John Brown's Body. Besides being Bright Abode, As Torrents in Sum- entertaining, this rendition illus- mer, and Steal Away. I:<'or the final t1 a ted the nece;;sity .for the sing- group of organ selections, Dr. Tid- ·ers t~ beat strict time and tu \keep maz sh played the Liebestod fr~m Jll the ball,\ for each time the one \Vagne1''s Tristan und Isolde, and vers~ wa:; repeated, the lost word Sibelius' Finlandia., with a chota! was dn1pped off, until the song interpoliation of On Great Lone finally degenerated to nothing more Hills. ----a---- than three rough breaths followed by the refrain. The skit, at the Th·e Sc·henectady County Com- close of the concert, was received mittec for Social Adjustment and with a,; much enthusiasm as it cus- Publications Board Will Meet crime will take the finger prints tomarily has been. of a.nyone connected with Uni<>n The regular March meeting of the College an Wednesday, Thursday, The Garnet Goblins furnished Publications Board will be held and F1 iday, Ma,rch 8, 9, 10 in the the music fol' dancing after the tomorrow afternoon in the Dean's north end of Silliman Hall from concert which lasted until mid- Office at 4:30. At that time The 11 A.. M. to 5 P. M. The finger night, when the singers were dis- Concordiensis elections for mem- prints will be sent to the Civilian missed with the final admonition bers of its 1939-40 senior, junior, Identification Division of the Fed- to be on hand next morning at 9 and sophomore editorial staffs will era! Investigation Bmeau in Wash- o'clock for departure to Endi- be held. Ernest C. Allnutt, '40, ington to be used for personal pro- cott. editor of the 1939 Senior Garnet, tection only-i·n case of amnesia, At 10 o'clock Sunday morning, has announced that the Board's accident, etc. They will not be used the club members sang a program .photograph for his yearbook will for criminal identification. J.t is of, of choir music at the Endicott also be taken. AlJ members are course purely voluntary. Methodist Episcopal Church, and urged to attend. that Satisfies with a Capital ~'S\ In Novetnber he returned to Brit- ish Guiana to confirm his geo- grapttical discoveries as a personal venture, and to collect for the Has- kins Laboratory living specimens of the Dinoponera grandis, the two inch ant, the world's largest a.nd like its cousin, a poi.sonous \ga.ng- ster\ of the jungle insect world, hunting like a \lone wolf'' the young (larvae) of other insects. He also collected tropical flora for the University of Michigan.. Radio City's world-famous \Rockettes\ and CHESTERFIELDS ... two can 't-he-copied combinations During hls 31,2 months expediUon Dr. Zahl accomplished these note- worthy things: Brought back first living speci- mens of Dinoponera grandis, fN>m the Mt. Roraima region in British Guiana and Brazil. Discovered two new waterfalls, each 1200 to 1600 feet high, ab-out ten times the drop of Niag.ara Falls, and possibly a third wb.ich Cheney to Return <Continued from Page 1) duction class of Mr. Carroll in thea- tre. 6:30 - Dinner with Professor James S. Green, Jr. Sa-turday, March 1l 10:00-.. Addresses student body- in daily assembly. 11:20-.Address Professor Gre-en's class in Hidory of Art, Bailey Ha11. 12:15-~-Luncheon with Messrs. Milton M. Enzer, Frederick Calvin and Mr. Carroll to dtscu~s Mohawk Drama Festival plans fo1 the -In- stitute of which Mr. Cheney L~ a faculty member. - 0 Lanny To Play at Dance <Continued from Page 1) matches. The house flags of the various fraternities will be su- spended from the 1·oof of the b.L1ild- ing. Tickets for the dance will be ·On sale today at the bookstore.. the student activity office, all fratel'ni- t!es. and the News Bureau. 'The price will be $1.00 a couple, this· including both the concert and the dance. Another unusual feature of the dance is the expected attendance of the entire faculty of Skidmore College to whom invitations have been sent. Copyright 1959, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO·Co. There's skill and precision in the way the Rockettes dance and there's skill and precision in the way the mild ripe Chesterfield tobaccos are blended and proportioned to bring oat the best in each. ThatJs why Chesterfields are milder and taste hetter • •• thafs why they~ II give you more pleasure than any ciga- rette you ever smoked. ______ eld ... a HAPPY COMBINATION ofthe world's best cigarette tobaccos Sub Z-511 Vol. L: = Sig.~ Of 1 ~ lr The e associat to Sigr scientifi today b ta1y of E. Buc Gallagh the Ha lWO IDE ship. Doug Burke, De Lis: B. Iris! L. Mo' Howatc Thoma: the un The l two el~ the sec year o Membe ner rn• House A. S. Medica Blue, Delta, to Wes land, I\ has be band, team, team e Civil E Burl1 and h He wa during years, track 1 Studei1 Cliff• is affi fl aterr year h sity dE De tady, i of the and i Hodge neutra Iris! Pi, ha sity f< Rae To Ne M 'W c. The Comn four 1 in th held man hour twes three Frc Mond prodl built at U band, pecte and 1 Mah< and Jat drarr Revc cale gion. book was will self,. will gran hour diatE Ur berg stud in t will out! mos 't'llnE

er et he ft- id- by de '40, are ll ll lnvi:Ve 500 Sub-Freshmen • • tli Freshmen Plan Dance Z- 511 Vol. LXII.\ No. 40 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, MARGH 10, 1939 PRICE FIVE CENTS Sigma Xi Announces Election Cheney Discusses Modern Drama At Round-table Lawrence Pellettier Elected Editor of Concordiensis; Deyo~ Fahy, Peck and Fitz Chosen for Senior ,Board Of 12 Associate, 2 FuU Members Six Junior and Five Sophomore Board Positions Also Filled Merchant, Burke, Clifford, Delisa, Hodges, Zuhr, Irish, Blue, Moore, Pomatti, Sheffer, Thomas Named Sees Students, Faculty Judges College Theatre The election of 12 undergraduate'*'------ assoc!ates an? two. full members , Schultz Completes to S1gma Xr, national honorary , scientific society, was• announced Class Day Appointments As Best Medium For D~amatic Experiment Urge Smaller Paper Old Board Suggests today by Dr. Augustus Fox, secre- taty of the Unio.n Chapter. Mr. C. E. Buchwald, '35, and Mr. D. M. Gallagher, '30, ,both associated with the Haskins Laboratory, are the two men elected to full member- ship. Douglas K. Blue, Thomas A.: Burke, Joseph Clifford, Dominick De Lisa, William Hodges. Sumner B. Irish, Reuben Merchant, Frank L. Moo1 e, Jr.. Renata Pomatti,' Howald ·E. Sheffer, William T. Thomas and HerbPrt F. Zuhr werE' the undergraduates elected. The Union Chapter usually holds two elections, one in the fall' and the second in the spring but this year only one election was held. Members will be inducted at a din- ner meeting to be held at Hale House on Mat·ch 28 at which Dr. A. S. Knudsen of the Albany Medical College will speak. John Schultz, pre~ident of Lhe senior class, announced to- day the complete list of ap- poi·ntmen ts for .class day exer- cises. Bernard Shapero, Roch- ester, will be Class MarshaJ.l; Robert P. McEnerney, Bronx- ville and James M.uleare, Sp1·ingfield, Mas~.. Keepers of the Jug; Roger Busha, Water- ford, Class Pcet; Rollin Wright, Rockledge, Fla., Pipe Ora tO!'; and Lon H. Barringer, Charles- town, \\'. Va., Cia-'S Orator. Appointments tu honontty po- sitions as announced .p1 eviously include Robert Hincltle, Sche- nectady and Jesse Sheur.an of Briarcliff l\lanor, as Alouette singers; Rebert C. Walter, De- troit, Class Historian; and Rob- ert A. Saaf, Schenectady, Class Prophet. Mr. Sheldon Cheney, Honorary Fellow in Fine Arts. mePting yes- terday afternoon with a group of faculty members and intereEted . students in an informal discussion in Hale House Lour:1ge. spoke on several topics of significance to the recent developments of modern Jrama. F. w. Hequembom·g (t·lght), greets Lawrence Pellettier, Editor-elect A Five-Co.lumn Issue For Next Year Wednesday, March 8-At its reg- ular monthly meeting this after- noon, the Publications Board unani- mously elected Lawrence V. Pel- lettier, '40, of Albany, editor of The Concordiensl!> for the scholas- tic year 1939-40. At the same time four other men were elected to the ~enior board, six to the junior board, and five to the sophomore board for the same term. Pellet- tier, who succeeds Fredrick W, ·Hequembourg, '39, as editor, will assume office with tne rest of his staff next Tuesday. Blue, a· member of Phi Gamma Delta, has received an appointment to West Point. His home is in Po- land, N. Y., and while at Union he has been a member of the college band, co-captain of the lacrosse team, a member of the swimming team and the American Society of Civil Engineers. ·Dr. Fox Announces Circulation Plan For Recordings Mr. Cheney enumerated some or' .he 1 easons for the decline of the Sew York stage, and pointed out, ;ven long bcfcre the 1929 crisis, the1e wa.; an influx of new blood .nto the theatrical profession. The .hcatre guilds made the mistake of Jrganizing themselves for purposes. Jf making profit rather than for producing plays which displayed better taste than that which the public demanded. Mr. Cheney went on to say, \Public libraries didn't fail, did they? Symphony OI'ches· tras have survived. Anything or- ganized for the sake of the art is likely to survive.\ Skidmore Girls Larrabee Made an Editor Following through a discussion Of 'New England Quarterly' on the demise of repertory com- Get Late ·Leave The other new members of the senior board are C. Russell Deyo of Binghamton, managing editor, Christopher M. Fahy of Newport, Rhode Island, sports editor, George L. Peclt of Gloversville, news edi- tor, and Edwin A. Fitz, Jr., of Sche- nectady, feature editor. panies ln America and England, Professor Harold A. Larrabee Mr. Cheney told of German reper- For .March 18 Dance is in Boston to attend the first Hequembourg Submits Plan tory groups which have developed meeting of the newly-elected very strongly in recent years. He editorial board of the New Eng·- The Publications Board also ac- Btu.'l{e Named Burke rs a mem'ber of Delta Phi and his home town is Rochester. He was vice-president of his class during his sophomore and senior years, runs the 440 on the varsity track team, and i.a a member of the Student Council. Clifford is from Gloversville and is affiliated with the Delta Chi fl aternity. During his freshman year he was a member of the var- sity debating team. De Lisa, who is from Schenec- tady, is a neutral. He is a graduate of the Mont Pleasant High School and is a member of the band. Hodges is from Scotia and is a neutral. Irish, a member of Beta Theta Pi, has played. freshman and var-: sity football and is from Port Jer-. (Continued on Page 2) ----0 Radio Workshop To Produce Four New Programs Small Rental Charge To Be Levied stated that it is possible to see Tickets Now On Sale land Quarterly at the home of cepted a recommendation made by mo 1 -e productions of Shakespeare At $1.00 per Cou.ple its chairman, Professor Samuel Hequembourg that The Concordien- .in a comparatively shorter time Eliot Morison, this year's sis be reduced to a five-colum.n than one can In Englano:. For Glee Club Affair Founders' Day speaker at paper. This proposal will be sub- President Fox yesterday an- Union. Professor Larrabee, who mitted to the new senior board of · nounced that In response to otu- Lauds College Theatre Dean Bridgman of Skidmore was recently made one of the the paper for its investigation and To Defray Expenses dent demands, a p p r 0 xi mat e 1 y College theatre groups are the College will grant special late seven editors of the magazine, final approval. This suggestion, if twenty-five or thirty volumes of best medium for an expression of leave to girJ.s attending the Union- is the first, in its twelve yeals accepted, will go into effect next classical recordings from the Car· current trends in drama, he ·said, Skidmore joint concet·t and dance of existence, to be elected from fall. Hequembourg explained that negie Library would be made avail- because they have developed an which will be held on March 18, outside New England. While in by reducing the size of The Con· able to students on a loan basis. experimental ideal which fosters Louis Carr, '39, chairman in charg.e Boston he is also to be the cordiensis to corresponed with that Helmer We-bb, College Librarian, the trial of a great variety of tech- of the dance announced today. guest, with Mr. Cadman Hislop, used by other colleges of Union's will be entrusted with the task of niques. On the other hand, Mr. Some difficulty was encountered Union instmctor on leave at size, the editors would be able to supervising the loaning of the rec- Cheney pointed out that this is vir- in arranging this privilege but Harvard, of Mr. Walter D. Ed- devote more time to improving the ords through the medium of the tually impossible in metropolitan when the committee appealed to monds, novelist and honorary paper's make-up, content, and gen- library. theatres because the high rental Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, who con- Un·ion alumnus, at dinner at the era! appearance. It was also felt Inasmuch a·s there is no fund for costs, overhead, advertising, and tacted Mrs. Henry T. Moore, wife St. Botolph Club. that grammatical and typographi- replacing these records, an attempt the like necessitate the production of the president of Slddmore, the cal errors would be reduced under will be made to place their eircu- of plays which have been time- special permission was granted. such a system. \Amherst Roches- lation on a self-financing basis. A tested and are guaranteed to have Carr said that the dance, at Liberal ArtS College ter, Middlebury, Hobart, R. P. I., slight ren;tal charge which has not long runs. An example of the enor- which Jack Lanny's orchestra will Colgate, Swarthmore, Columbia, yet been determined will be made mous costs of production of many play, is of an experimental nature H H \t and Haverfot·d have all found a for use of the records and it is of the New York shows is shown and that tickets are being sold at aS ert age five-column paper to be sufficient probable that fi·bre needles will be by the fact that the minimum costs the low price of $1.00 per couple Worthy of Defense. sfoart'd. their needs,\ Hequembourg g.iven out with them. before the play even open some- which includes the concert as welL Mr. Webb reclared that ·he would times run to $15,000 or even :J;50,000. The expense of the dance will be announce definite plans for circu- In spite of all these, Mr. Cheney comparatively high Inasmuch as a Irwin A. Conroe, Director .Record May Be. Printed lation of the records in the near emphasized that It was the duty of good orchestra has been engaged. Dean C. F. F. Garis, president future. the director to keep ahead of the The dance is of an eKperimental Of State Higher Education of the Board, said that Comptroller The movement to make the-se tastes of an audience. nature, he said, because it will de- Stresses Individual Values Anthony Hoadley had procured recordings available began when Mr. Cheney related several en- termine whether or not Union stu- mail boxes fe>r each publication The Concordiensis, in response to tirely new ideas he had encountered dents prefer smaller and less ex- \The Hberal arts colleges have a a!ld that they would be installed requests ftom seve1al students, in- when he visited the children's thea- pensive social functions to the more heritage which they will do well to immediately for use in Silliman quired into the likelihood of loan- tre in Russia in 1931. The plays elaborate dances given by the col- guard,\ said Irwin A. Conroe, direc- Hall. Robert C. Walter, '39, edttor M L Z7th Broadcast ing out the recotds .a·nd f~llo\Yed glven were all strong propaganda, lege. tor of the Division of Hig.her ·Edu- .of th~ Fr~sl~ ReCQ!\d l!n- arcn · this investigation w1th edttonals but the audience, because of its Tickets will be on sale at all fra- cation of the State Education De- nounced that he would recommend Will Be Built Around favoring the proposition. The col- all-inclusive enthusiasm, enjoyed ternity houses, at the college book- partment, as he addressed the stu- that the Record be printed and en- M • A f \f lege administration from .t~e very them immensely. Appointed assist- store, student activities office and dent body in daily assembly Thurs- graved next year at the April meet- Campus USIC C lVI JeS beginning expressed Its Willmgness ants were distributed throughout the barber shop in Silliman Hall. day morning. ing of the Board. t . to cooperate if so. me .·>Ian co. ul .. d. ·be the audi'ence to observe and tabu- The following individuals will also h h Th 11 The Radio Workshop Execu 1ve \ K' \I don't know w at big er edu- e. fo owing men were elected W()l ·ked ou.t which was practical late even the minutest reactions of have tickets for sale: Warren tm- · · -· C t h Committee laid definite plans for ld p 2 ) cation consists of,\ said Mr. on- o t e junior staff of The Con- 'th an·d insured that the records wou the childi·en to the pla\. <Continued on age d l d 'th di four programs to be produced WI - ' roe, \an no one e se · oes· e1 er. cor ensis by the Board: John D. in the next month at its meeting not be mdstreated. In the past hundred years it has d . . Silli Dr. Elmer Tjdmarsh expreEsed S d S b •t t p,• • t\ underg~me •So many changes that (Continued on Page 2) held Wednes ay evenmg m - h'ts doubts as to whet·her such a tu ents U mz 0 •ngerprln -rng man Hall. These will include a half d 1 · \ II no one knows· the direction the · th · f fea plan could be determined, ·ec -a:r- nem ch-ange will tak. e.\ hour program in e senes 0 - ing that it would surely re~ult m \ .e• • Freshmen to Hold tUJeS about Union College and damage to the records which .at Dor 11tfz\ssing Persons luenti, tcatzon \Some people believe that the three fifteen minute broadcasts. that ume were used only by .hi·s. r ~ lP'.L1 liberal arts couege is being groun<~ Meeting. on Monday From 4:00 p. m. to 4:30 P· m. on class in music appreci-ation and. between two millstones, the junior Monday, March 27, the group will other groups that gathered in the Union students are suffering the college which has spread from the There will :tJe a meeting of the d th . t m 1 ·nute broadcast fi has provided a special card which t d th h · 't h' h pro U'Ce a II\ Y chapel to play them. . indignity of having their nger- wes an e uge umverst Y w Hl freshman dass on Monday moil'n- 'l d th 1 'cal activities t f is ruled into squares for each b t th t ·t t · f bm t aroun e mus Dr. Fox in his announcemen m- prints taken-but voluntarily or· oas s a· 1 rams men or every ing, March 13, to discuss the possi- at Union College. The Glee Club, dt'ca.ted \hat ,t'f the plan works ou_t t. hei'r own protection. It's all part finger and also has space fol' all occupation. But, if a liberal arts bTt f h ld' F d d D T 'd arsh are ex- \ t d b the fingers taken simultaneously. t · · th' 't t d 1 1 Y 0 0 mg a reshman Dance, ban an · r. I m satisfac-tmily and no damage IS· of a campaign being conduce Y rammg means any mg 1 s an s Robert K. Baker, president of the 'd t' · t nroduction h f t These cards are then sent to Wash- f 'l'b 1 tt't d pecte to par Impa e. ... do-ne the records, that in t e u ure. the Civilian Indentifi.cation De- or 1 era a 1 u es. class announced today. and script will be handled by Paul· it may be possible to loan the rec- partment of the Federal Bureau of ington, D. C. to be filed away. \It gives you an opportunity to The purpose of the dance is to Mahoney, '40, Bernard Krause, '39, · ards with no charge at all. Investigation to put the finger- One of the reasons given for think for yourself and. to study as foster class spirit, Baker said, and and Elliot Hertzrnark, '40~ ---o--- prints of all the citizens of the having their fingerprints taken was an individual. It produces free and perm1ssion to hold the function in James Shavv. '41, submitted a O. ver 500 Boys Invited United States on record. Locally that \it might be useful in iden·. liberal men; men who are free in- either Hanna Hall or ,the gymnas- dramatization for radio of a pre- k d the fingerprinting is being done tifying me if I am ever f.ound suf- dep·endent citizens and are liberal ium has been granted by Dean Revolutionary War legend. Its lo-' For Sub-Freshman Wee en by members of the Schenectady fering from amnesia.'' Fear that because they extend the outposts· of Garis. A tentative date of April cale is the Catskill Mountain re. · The Secretary's Office has an- county Committee for Social Ad- their prints might be used against their .minds as far as possible with- 22 has been set, pending the ap- gion. The tale was found in. a Itou·nced that over 500 invitations justment and Crime Prevention, them in a criminal action prevent- out imposing on their neighbors proval of the· class at the Mon<lay book of American ~olk lore Which for the coming sub-freshman week- and not by \G'· Women as one ed many more from having theirs who are also liberal. meeting. was last printed in the 1890~s. Shaw; end to be held on March 25 , 2 6, 27, . Union freshman thought. taken. Mrs. Mills added that there ----o--- A committee appointed by Baker will be in charge of the script it- have been sent to twenty states, The. women ~ere ~aught the was no basis for their fear as the April 12 Deadline Set to malte plans for the dance in- self,. while Robert Schulberg, '41,. th n· trict of Columbia and Can-: techmque of takmg prmts by the, Department of Justice has assured eludes William Coates, Rochester; will handle production. The pro- · de _ Is d th list .of ~chools to Schenectady Police Department. her that those prints. on file in the For Sternfeld Essay Armand V. Felgen·baum, Pittsheld, gram will last one quarter of au a h~· h a~he ;ave been sent nilm- Their equipment consists . of. a C i vi 1 ian Identification Depart- Mass.; Kenneth uas·her, Menands; hour, prod.uction starting imme- .;et~: 38 . Y ina:ble sl!!:b• .ro~ler an.d s~~CJ.a.l mk ment would not be used for any Competition for the Sternfeld Maurice. Deul, s~henectady; Earl diately. The different states include Cal- which Is stmilar to punters mk. other purpose than that of civilian Prize, offered to that student who SchwallJe, Long Beach; James Rid• Under the direction of Schul- 'f . Ne Mexico Oklahoma The slab 1s inked an rolled identification. They will not be writes the best essay on any sub- dell, Schenectady; and Del.phis berg, a round-table di.scussion by 1 o~n~, s w Some of 'the prepara- smooth and the finger tips are then. available to any but hospitals, ject connected with philosophy, has Goldberg, Troy, student leaders will be presented ~~· sc~~~~s· in the list are Loomis, pressed firmly on it. The J?rints morgues and Missing Person's Bu- been announced. Deadline for the The move to revive class spirit in the nein future. The program. p Y I' g Hotchkiss Blue Ridge, are transferred to paper :-Vlth a reaus. · competition has been set for April has been largely made possible be- will be unique in that only a bare Waw 1 ~t~r Taft Peddie and Tome. rolling motion so that the 1mpres- l).![rs. Mills and her staff will be 12 and essays should be sent to cause of the interest of Dr. Charles outline of a script will be used with 0 or~e 500 ' invit~tions in all have sion is broad and shows all the here until after four this afternoon Mis·s Travis in the Administration Waldron, '06, and David L. Yunich, most of the discusston extempo- beve~ sent out. loopa e,nl:l. wbit•ls. 'I'he dapartment awaiting the l~st minute rusb. Building on or before that date, '39. ·raneous.

Page Two Qlnurnr FouNDED 1877 \.4 CariSa Per sa Pa,role .4ssai\ ~tember .,r the A•sociated Collegiate Pre\s a·n-tl t!i~tr but<lr nf th€' CollP.glute i li~e~t. The official newspaper of the stuuents of Ui1ion College. Published Tuesday and Fridays through- l~l:l t the cul'legt' year. Edllorlnl Ituums, Sttlirnan Hall, Union Coll<Ute Cam- pus. 'feleJiho.ne, S<\henectady 4-0133. l'niJilcatlon OWico, 'l'he Gazette Press, 334 Stale St .. Schenectady, N. Y, Telephone 4-~!!1 I::Htertd a;l the Sc·henectauy Post Office as Second Cta\s Mall Matter. SubscriPtion price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered anywhere in the United Sta_t_es_. __ Senior Board Fredericlt W. Hequernbourg ..... Editor-in-Chief Psi Upsil'!m House-4-8710 Max Len ................ , .•.. Business Manager Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Robert C. Walter, Jr ......... Managing Editor Psi Upsilon House-4-8710 Jerome Smith ................... Sports Editor Kappa Nu House-4-7331 Robert A. Saaf _ .................. News Editor 1133 Parkwood Blvd.-4-6182 H. Wyman Hitchcock ...•......... Copy Editor Delta Upsilon House-4·7~22 John Malone ............... Circulation Manager 1091 Keyes A ve.-4·6931 REPRESENTED F'OR NATION~L ADVERTI31NG BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Pt<blishers RePresentative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO • BOS\TON • LOS ANGELES ~ SAN FRANCISCO Juni()r Editorial Board C. Russell Deyo George L. Peck Christopher M. Fahy I,arry Pellettler Edwin A. Fitz, Jr. Sophomore Editorial Board Paul Hec·ker, Jo.lt11 Lewis, John Phillips, Sheldon C. Jt•nl<in~. Itoberl Schulberg, Ja.me• E. Twining. Business Staff Robert Eisner, Jack Rabinowitz. Donald Haigh, Laskar Schwartz, Arthur Davis, Andy Kay, Justin Perlstein, Stanley Greens tcin, ~lyron l\lills. Issue Editors ................ 1939 Senior Board Friday, March 10, 1939 FINIS! THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1939 allyspeaking,Iwouldliketoexpresstheap-. ~u±rlt,[r:ent \IN THE MAIL II II preciation of the staff and myself to the fol-· To The Editor: .· ~===M=O=T;;;J;;;, ;;;O;;;;;;;;N=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:..., lowing: ~je()ple for the interest they have evi-· Some of the glee club members ~ • were entertained at a post-concert' In all the rush and confusion of deuced in The Concordiensis and their help- house pa•I'ty at Binghamton last moving to Rens~elaer last week, The title, Fast and Loose, is cnly '.ful and kindly suggestions made to US Saturday evening. Which one of .unfol'tunately, 1 was not able to fifty per cent decepti!ve. It :sn't ·those pt·esent left his date locked zee everyone at Union and per- fast. throlHthoHt OU·r terms of office: Dean C. F.: 1 ·n the·bathz·oom? .... Ami'd the ap- .. ·~onally thank th,em fot· ma·king my h' ~ Robert Montgomery ·ooz·es sop H:- F. Garis, President Dixon Hyan Fux, Profe::;-' plau:;e and favotabl£> comnwnt that stay theie a most E'njoyable oRe. · ticatiun fnim PV<'l'Y pmf'. C'ha8lnr; · · ld L. t. p 1 • W'll\ accompanied the Monday evening l<Iay I, through you ·and The murderiRg criminals the whi.!e. ' I sor Haro A. ai·ra!uee, ro essor l .rum .performance of the Mountebanks .concordiensiB, ·expre:;s my deep· Rosalind Russell rclh~ !ll'OUnd, i·n I ' \\'. Bennett, and 1\h·. Milton 1\I. Enzer. production of \Rosmersholm;'' one esl and heartiest thanks t0 .aoll con-: the ·background, often disLnguish- . F' d · k \V 1 . 1 1. opinion stood out !Jike a sore: nect€'d with Union, from Dr. Fox, able frorn the scenery .. The story is re · l'lC vv • 'equentuourg thumb. J. J. FitzEimons, Ueutenant' alumni, faculty, students, office , much too complicated to be c!c- 1 * * * of the strong .campus neutral group and .ground help, d<;>wn through the scribed, inasmuch as it has .a ·lot . and white hope of the third ward townfolk ror everything you did to do with Shakespeare and his · I Best wishes to the new se11ior board o.f Democz ats, thought it stunk. In-. for me to make me h<J.PPY and at ;rHings. we wel'e puz:ded. ·The {'oli.COl'diensis. There is little point in feriority complex? ... We suggest: home at Union and Schenectady. 1 • * * , . . t th the Humane Society award for: will always remember artd cherish Vaudeville: Right here and no.w ··1 offering them advice 01' trymg 0 urge · · em· Pearscn, Sig' Phi freshman, who my friendships an·d da;,:s spent in we want lo step up to. pat Benny • to gTeatet• hei:ghts fot' the g·Iory of dear old rescued a howling cat fl'om a tree your company as some of the hap- MeiOff> 011 the back. Benny had a 1 d one night last week in his pajamas plest of my life. b · 1 . Concordiensis. They will do what t 1ey anm 30 Th 1 . lot to contend with during t e al 2: a. m. . . . · e popu anty Union is a grand .coHege, one .rhursday afternoon show-a small 1 please un;~o·how. of weeltend skiing expeditions is that each of you should 'be more audience <unresponsive>, etc.-but One of the most comnwn flaws found in evidenced by the number of than pl'oud of, and more than for- he carried off his rn.c. role very ~rutches seen on the campus Mon- tunate to be connected with. I will .licely. Especially should he be editorial staffs is a tendency to overestimatE day mornings. It would appear that a:Iways be proud of the da~·s when eted for his steadfast .refusal to its own importance. Especially for a col- the spm t has affected many stu- I was a \URi<m Ma:n.\ I deeply .. nil•k applause fz·om the gathered dents quite sel'iously .... George regretted leav;ng your big family, ~rethren. lege paper to believe that it has any tre- Herath's grill liquidated its stock but waxing a hit of Shakespeare Not only that, but his show is mendous influence on the making of student and closed its doors last Saturday in my own inimitable manner, .Jretty smart too, notably that sec- night. The imbibers were lined up \parting is such sweet sorrow\ when jon cf it devoted to imitati·ng opinion is a sad el'l'Ol'. l\lay the new l>oa1·d four deep at the ba1· and the gen- one ha~ ~o many ·beautiful mem- myone or anything the audience find it& niche in campus affairs and under- era! confusion caused many a free odes of my sta,y with you. ledzes. The imper~onation of Guy drink to be had. Where was Ger- I ·n db b t · t ~ombardu's b1nd is neat- that's all standing it:; positi011, utilize its talents to zov?' .. Due. Schmidt has been WI not say goo - y. u JUS so-'long. Thank everyone for being best advantag-e I bemoaning the fact that certain swell to the old Swede. students who awe him beer·s are The whole is greater than any of its parts. slow in paying off. We suggest tbat And the new Concordy dynasty will find the Dean hold back the diplomas of all students who owe members that by cooperating and sharing the jobs in- of the faculty beers along with volved in managing the paper they will flunks in gym and chapel. ... One d of our western states has, by achieve a greater sm.oothness an a greater statute, proclaimed all barbers as force in their work. mechanics. If the law hits New t . th 1 t York, Tony- might give free lubri- This boils down to two pal' mg oug 1 · S: cation with evel'y shave .... Eliot work tog-ether, but don't take yourselves too Hertzmark, undergraduate physics I major and philosopher, considers serious j'. God as a great scientist ... AI. Robert C. Walter, Jr. Halavin needs a new drinking part- * * * Best \Vishes to the new senior board. I hope they will wo!'lc tog-ether as agreeably as our Concordy boa1·d has and that they will all enjoy their \Vork on the paper as much as I have. Robert Saaf * * Sincerely yours, \DUKE\ WALTER J. NELSON -~-o--- Sigma Xi Elects 14 New Members (Continued from Page 1) vis, N. Y. He was manager of the varsity basketball team. Merchant is from Nassau, N. Y., and is oresident of the Union Chap- ter of- the Ame1 ican Institute of Electrical Engineers and is secre- tary of the Radio Club. F. L. Moore, Jr., is from Glens Falls and has been president of the Pyramid Club. He is also a member of the college band. * * * FLASilfFLASHBLASH Dr. Zahl's waterfalls will rr.ake their debut in the Pathe newsreel .vhich begins Sunday at Proctor's. i...et's. get behind this, fellows, and ~ive it a big push. * * Next Thursday's vaudeville at .\I actor's will featul'e none other .han Louis Armstrong, with his .Jand. The b~nd was here last year .vearing a disguise named Luis luEsell. And a very good band it ---o--- Pellettier Elected New Concordy Editor (Continued from Page 1) Phillips of Amsterdam; Sheldon C. Jenkins of Utica, John P. Lewis Jf Hudson Falls, Robert S. Schul- berg of New York, Paul W. Becker The month of l\Iarch is famed for \com- ing in lil\e a lion and going- out like a lamb\. To us, the retiring members of the senior board of The Concordiensis, the climatic an- tics of the thi1•d month of the year are an appropriate simile of om· own cm·eers as the executives of Union's 61 year old semi- weekly news org-an. Gone are the days when we could lean hack in our chairs dictating orders to subot'dinate editors, answering the 'phone at ..t-0133 with an all-important air, and typing out vigorous editorials that we hoped would make someone sit up and realize that he wasn't perfect after all. The die has been cast, and so with mingled sorrow and relief, we hand over the future of The Con- cordiensis to our successors. We hope that they have as much fun with the paper as we did, and that their results will be far super- ior to our humble efforts. * According to a tradition begun by some foolish Concordy Board many years ago, each of the out-going editors is supposed to place here for posterity's sake a few flowery words expressing their feelings as the last issue goes to press. I wonder just what our feelings are? As a sophomore, we ran around the cam- pus looking for notices and receiving the curses of the junior editors, but we stood iL Then came the day, when, as junior editors, we saw our first issue in print. That is an issue none of us will forget. Finally, only a year ago, we reached the long looked forward to g-oal, the senior board. Now we would go places and do something worth remembering. Tonight we look back on the four years and wonder, after all, did we accomplish any of our aims? With this issue we hand over Concordy's future to the new board, with ner since Bill Daley (chum) bas left school. Applications received at the barber shop. . . . Orchids to Doctor Paul Zahl for his success- ful expedition and the fame it has brought to Union College. Milton Enzer has received wires from all over the country seeking stories and pictures of Dr. Zahl's trip .... Stan Becker, Union's gift to Skid- more, is considering a siege at Vas- sar for a date. He's a good kid. We'd like to see him get it .... Mrs. Milton Enzer· presented her spouse with another son last Sat- Ul'day. Milton, it is ·rumored, want- ed a daughter, he being the father of two sons already. , .. We are sorry to hear that so many bud- ding romances have wilted as a result of the \Northern Lights\ column. Remember men, the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence, and some of the young blades, we hear, are very gtecn .... Hari-Kari quite contrary How his mind doth go Mental mazes, flossy phrases And pretty words all in a row Pornatti, from Gloversville, runs of Schenectady, and James E. varsit;,: tzack and won his num- Twining, Jr., of Ridgewood, N. J. e1als in this s']lort. He is also a John Grow of Binghamton, Sam- member of the college string quar- uel Portnoy of Jackson Heights, tet. Jonathon Pearson III, Scotia, Sheffer is from Schenectady Armand Feigenbaum, Pittsfield, whe1 e he graduated from the Nott Mass., l.'lnd Alexander Arony of Terrace High School. He is treas- .Schenectady, wet e elected to the urer cf the college Chemistry Club, .;;ophomore board. won his numerals in freshman Pellettier is secretary of the Tax cross-country and his varsity \U' · Committee, received his numerals in track during his last three years in freshman lacrosse, and was in in college. He is a member of the the cast of \One People,\ a his- Glee Club and the Instrumental torical pageant written by Presi- Club. dent Dixon Ryan Fox. He has been mentioned consistently on the Dean's List. Thomas Active Thomas is from jamestown and is affiliated with Lambd'a Chi Alpha. He is a member of the Ter- race Council, the Student Council, the Interfraternity Council and We should like at this time to was chairman of the group that bid adieu to James Wade, scholar, made plans for this year's Block gentleman, phi 1 os o ph e r, and \U\ day which will supplant the healthy animal. We hope our healtla annual Block \U\ dinner. He has will be as enduring. . . . Congratu- played freshman and varsity foot- lations to the new senior board. ball, freshman and varsity basket- The favorite, Pellettier, leading all ball, fres·hman and varsity base- the way, came to the finish line two ball and was captain of the base- lengths ahead, paying even money. ball team for the '38 season. Dur- Lilies to the retiring board, rest ing his freshman year he was box- their souls for doing a good job. ·ing champion in the 135-145 pound Deyo is a member of the Glee ,:::1ub and the Choir, a member of the Garnet Key, the junior honor- ary society, and a member of the Interfraternity Council. He re- ceived his numerals in freshman football and has been mentioned frequently on the Dean's. List. He is a member of the Chi Psi fra- ternity. Fahy is a member of the Social Studies Club, an associate editor of the Freshman Year Book, and the Garnet Key. He has been ranked scholastically in the first ten of his class and is a member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity. * * * When we assumed office last Mm·ch, we misgivings and relief. To them I wish as ·---o class. announced that we would have one guiding much fun as we had and, above all, lots of The Citadel' Proves ideal through()ut our terms as editors of The success. We'll regret leaving our old haunts, Popular With Freshmen Concordiensis; namely, to make our policies . but we know they've been left in good hands. A recent report from the Eng- wyman Hl 'tchcock lish Staff to the faculty states that conform to th€ best interests of the college. . the 270 freshmen in college have al- At the same time we added that although CULLS FROM THE PRESS ready read an average of six books Zuhr is from Bloomfield, N. J., and is a member of Kappa Sigma. He is president of the Chemistry Club, a member of the Radio Workshop group, student leader of the Band, and a member of the Student Council. ---0·--- d t. apiece, and the books most widely we id not wish to ue classed as a group of Since the Republkan elepohant carne suddenly to chosen are not all fiction. One k \rabble rousers\ if we felt that it was neces- life last Novem·ber, a rebellious Congress has defied hundred four freshmen said that S idmorites Granted t nl . ht th ll h the President over relief; business recovery has they had read Citadel, and the next Late leave for Dance sary 0 e, Ig en e CO ege On SOme p ase slackened perceptibly; straw polls have shown an three books in order of popularity of Union life, we would not hesitate to aet. increasing swing to the G. o. P. and all the time, wel'e Northwest Passage, MiCI·obe h h d b b h d ·1940 has crept steadily nearer. HrmteJ'S, and Madam Curie. (Continued from Page 1) NOW t at OUr • an S are a out to e was e In the face of these po•rtents, the Adminis1ratio·n As pal't of the freshman Eng- mey, John Schultz, David L. Yu- from dictating the paper's policies, we feel until recently .clung stubbornly to its course. But !ish course here, outside reading is nich, Alexander Turchick, and th t h tl th t Ith h last week, after a series of carefully timed state- required apart from the regular Louis Carr. a we can @nes Y say a a · oug we ments the country had convincing evidence that the · t A as.stgnmen s. s soon as a boy's Dean Bridgman said that Skid- dl \d not ba·t 10() per cent r·n Q:al·nl'n!! all of our New Deal had decided· to sheath the swo1·d of ref.arm m · th 1· t f u d ~ ~ na e IS on e IS o enro e more girls must return to the col- objectives, We did make a few people read and ~make a peace pipe W'ith business. Although freshmen, a letter is sent to him lege in the Skidmore bus directly Secretary Hopkins took ex:ception t-o the ph:rase from the Secretary's Office, signed· after the dance inasmuch as the our editorial columns more regularly than \business appeasement\ he stressed the \need for b th h · f th E J' h y e c airman o e ng 1s college assumes responsibility for the \ had ·beell l'n the habl't of dol'ng. unity in the interest of national recovery.\ And while Staff urging summer reading in th . f t Sh 1 d th t >T · he intimated that there wcmld be no retreat f.rom ' t' f 1 d' · f eir sa e Y· e a so urge a prepara wn or c ass Iscusston o Union men intending to escort We could elaborate at great lengths on any far reaching reforms designed to promote a per- books after college opens. Skidmore girls make their dates manent .recovery, he did se·e the need for co-oper- some of mol'€ sensational campaigns that ation between government and business. 0 as soon as possible so that bus f '] d d ' II b t tl h' h P 'd t R e:lt I · d th ~ b i · Government CI\'SS arrangements can be made. a1 e , an espec1a y a ou lOSe w lC res1 en oosev · o a.1me a;, us ness 1n gen- \' era! had nothing to fear f1·om the New Deal aims; H K hb T d President and Mrs. Henry T. found their mark. However, we feel that this specific·ally the Administration would not extend its ears irsc erg o ay Moore and President and Mrs. is no time to <lisinter the deeds of the past. power program and sought no new or higher taxes. Dr. Bradley H. Kitschberg, direc- Dixon Ryan Fox head the list of Secl ·etru·y l\o'orgenthau urgecL Congr~•s to take a tor of the Schenectady Crime Lab- chaperones invited to the affair. We much p·refer to pass into obscurity with careful l~ok ~t the tax laws to see ;'hether there oratory, will speak to members of Dean and Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, a kind word for all. At times we have been are any deterrents h.Qlding the business man back Dr. Vernon A. O'Rourke's class in Mr. and Mrs. Fredericlr A. Wyatt, ·1 h h t · l d from making future commitments. The House Ways state and local government at Dr. and Mrs. Elmer A. Tidmarsh unnecessan y ars on cer a1n peop e an and Means Comd:Xtit:tee immediately and· w1th good Hale House at 3 o'clock this after- of Union and Dean Bridgman and groups, and for that we are undeniably grace pledged its eQiooperation. Climax of the dr~ve noon. Miss Mary Collins, secretary to the Peck is president of the Pyra- mid Club and an assistant in the News Bureau. He is also a news ~o'nespondent for 'the Schenectady Union-Star. Fitz is a member of both the Choir and the Glee Club. He is ranked' am<Jng the firEt ten of his class and is a member of the Lambda Chi Alpba frater- nity. ---o~-- CALENDAR Saturday 10:00 a m. - Daily Assembly, Mr. Sheldon Cheney, Honor- ary Fellow in Fine Arts, Memorial Chapel. Stmda.y 11:00 a. m.-Sunday Service Preacher, Dr. ArchibalC: Black, First Congregational Church, Montclair, N. J., Memmial Chapel. 3:00 p. m.-Emplre State Town Meeting of the Air, Old Chapel. Monday Free Tuesday 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly, Memoi'i•al Chapel. 2:00 p. m. - Placement inter- views. WiHiam.s Betts and W. W. McDowell, International Business Machines Corpor- ation, Silliman HalL Wh d h d f h came from the President himself. His aides dis- This roundtable discussion is one dean, and Mr. and Mrs. Hintz of sorry. at goo we may . ave one or t e patched almost ·identical letters to William Green of in a series that Dr. O'Rourke has Skidmore are included among the college, we are happy to have been able to the A F. of L. ·and .John L. Lewis of the C. I. 0. arranged for his class and which. other patrons and patronesses, Mr. d o. Yet, when the fina( analysis is made, askdng each to name three men to :seek peace in ·have included· meetings with Miss Hintz; is director of the Skidmore ·Ilia;~ ; ·~ ~ labor's civil war. Grace Reavye, president of the Glee Club. · · · • f 1 th t f ' f k Th th h ' . ....JI~··;; We ee a our OUi' yearS 0 war 011 e Both accepted and al aug all agreed <that the New York State Civil Service Com- Carr expressed the hope that - - • - -- - ConcOt·diellSiS has been the greatest exper- task was ex;tremely difficult, hope for a labor p·eace mission, Mr. Fred Schwarzkopf, students would give their support to Sbt.rtlng TODAY! seemed brightei' than any time in the past year. Socialist city clerk of Bridgeport, the dance and said tna:t approxi- \THE OKLAHOIIIA IUD\ ience we have ever had. Healing <Jf the breach, it is ;cla;imed would erase one Conn., and Warren Moscow, Albany mately 250 tickets would' have t.o Sta.rl'lng ,ya,mes Cltil'Itey I · 'l!iui Hit! 1 . b th d't . II d · s()UTee ,;};f ·bu\.Sil!l~a worry, li!pur recovery an•d; bo-lster corresp. ondent foJ? the New ').'ork be sold to cover the expenses at·.. . ~·RTS~Y BUSINESS\· In cone USlOll, () e 1 Ol'Hi y an person- the New Deal's poJitlcSI) pr~stlae, Times. . ' I t·he da.,ce. ·~ ~· ., \ •• wltll Georg-o llllJrl'liJ', DO.\'IItllonlt;cnt ------ - At our&el' on thi: !llC~ld be ex~ the wl solo a t!Ie sp our n to cat gospel 'The with the Cl gener: classn .partm pi est atmos .Iy ant Andv sports turt> i Howe Thi:; do out of 1 it shou truth . pie, cer comme1 side of stand s·1 \Ye be slightly in the and to though1 to find 1-: that progr tracti it h2 year can I cent stu de tram lowe< and i all arnot its p: spcm cam1 than \Dul; renee job' entir Par II Nitcl rig hi de 1m 2-M in tram ping-p• progra rep res• groups official action ence t out tt placed han db door nasiur: studer equipr troublo bound cost o pay in! dents deposi when 3- derf sisu coru wou clu{] (abc tor mer fon letic son WOt: cra1 s, tarn the sch· Pile 6E 2~ 2(] ,1(

cnly :sn't phi£- IT e. in is c!e- ·lot his now enny ad a tbe all very be to is sec- ating ience Guy all make and at other his Luis it C. Lewis Schul- E. N.J. Sam- tsfield, ny of the Tax in a his- Presi- s been the Glee of honor- of the re- He si fra- Social editor k, and been first Pyra- in the news of Club. firEt frater- mbly, or- Arts, rvice J., Old inter- w. !(CUt THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY,. MARCH 10, 1939 Page Three T H E PORTS-MYTH At last we have l:c-l'SUlltkd· ours-elves to ful.d eno11g:h room on this J!age to IncluG~ a bit of mea!tdering • . . bu~ .u mlght be expected, there is a oea tch .to the whole idea: this• is ol.ll.\ last wlo attempt Into the ·realm of tlle sports world ... It' is up to our most honorahlil> ·successor to cany forth and sp[\('ad the gospel o:f Union atlklef;ics . . • 'The past yeat~s OOJUiectiiorn; with The Concordllen.:sis and the campus athletic :ram.ily in general, from the lo-wl~ under- classman to the .n.tbl etic de- .partment, have been ,fthe 'hap- piest one could desir-e - . • The atmosphe1·e has beem. son friend- ly and so conducive to~Worlt .•• hnd we are sure that .')\'Our new sports editor will flrul• th~ pic- turt> in tht> sameo settlmg .•. However, do not ·b.e misguided.' Thi~ dOC$ not mean that ~s we fac!e ·] cut of the picture everjthing is as it should be . . . ·Fa.t lrom tile truth ... There a·re certain pea· pie, certain policies w·hlch deserve. commendation . . . On· the othet· side of the ledger, vc r·y distinctly,· stand s·everal current see nes which, we believe, should :~e .altered slightly . , , It shall be omr purpose in the remaining li11es .to praise and to present sevet·al foods fm· thought ... It is so IlL uch easiet· to find fault . . . !-Fervent hopt> ·is l\'XPI'eS£ed that the college's iJLtramural program continue ·to :be as at- tractivP and as all-inclusive as it has been during \the past year , • • No better evidence can be shown of •IJIO(l·uiai' stu- c.ent appeal tllaJl SOIJII€ figures. • • . In . 1936 some 71~ of tht- student body partie! pa&ed In i.n- tramura.!s •.. Th..is was fol- lowed in 1937 by .JL. '7:3~'t total, and in 1938 by 749', ...• From all indications, :tlils year's amount should soa1· .1v-ell n.bove its predecessors . . _ ;G;:hiefly I'P- sponsible for tlus. :attra.ctive campus .function is none •Other than Art (no longel:\ !Ott\ since \Dul•e\ Nelson de11art.ed) Law- rence, who has done ~ bang-up job with the cooper:atbon oi the entire athletic board ib·om Fred Parks, Ed Fitz, Bill bietz,. Nels Nitclunan and Kal Wittner right down to Mrs. E])obe·rts, the department secretary, . . . 2-May we also suggest to the intramural solons that neJCt year ping-pong be incorporat.ed into the program ... Close to 1()0 students, representing some ·z:o campus groups, engaging in this year's un- official tournament wali'rants such action ... In line w·itll! this refer· ence to ping-pong, ndg/ht we point out that a table or t~o could be placed in the empty.ana abandoned handball rooms alongs ide the in- door track upstairs In the. gym- nasium for the enjo:yll:'lent of the students .. , the ini ti~l outlay fol' equipment would be well-worth the trouble, what with stllldent praise bound to flow abund..anrtly ... The cost of balls could be made a self- paying proposition, sh:o.ce ,the stu- dents could be chargea a ten-cent deposit, the amount b be forfeited when the ball is brol;:eJL , .. 3-We find it dlftill:ult to un- derstand the colleg-e's incon· sistency in atte1aptiing to be consistent • , First .. f all, would it not be practical to in· cl11de the Dirootm· ol' AthletiCs (above a.ll) ltnd tlae sport;s edi· tor of The Coneorcl.iensis as members of the board which fonnulates the c:oll~ge's ath- letic policy ••• ID. tlt..is way, aJl sources of Calll:IJUS opinion would be represe~tea, a demo- cratic move . • . Secondly, striving ro main- tain an amateur a1;1Jloetic polic~, the • college drops from its schedules several institutions & 7 for building healt~ in mind and body. Amsterdam: Dairy M I L:K 2 glasses before retil'ing Repeat Daily Pllone 6-2351 for Di\.jly Delivet-y 633 State St. 226 Nott Ter. 204 Union St. 1 009 Chrisler Ave. \' c:ublC'l to !tS·\<' an op:,os:te Hl't~--~hot~r.r.:ng, :::c's Nl_l_;_ ~~~he I up , • • ¥ et, ot!Jf'r col!eg<>s, uvc:·a!':'c he1 c cf f;cm lD to :;:o whose similarity in p·olicy to c!ollal'S an hour ... For such high ours is serious:y questioned, are pay, till' •teams and the spectator-s 'left on the calendar ... Right d'eserve to· ~ce first-class offic'ia.ting. !.n this vicitiny lie fertile fields .. T1 ue, last year the stu<!ent.s for a truly amateur spl)rts pro- complained ·of too much technical gram, waiting to ·be tapped , . . -t•efeteeing and this ccnscn c'f too Our basl{etball schedule is much 'loose supervision . . . The slowly losing its attractiveness. job is to strike the happy medium. This must be admitted .. , ·Why . . . But if the students appeared could not a Little Entente, if too rash in their bleacher-handling ;roa please, .be fol'med with of the officials, we feel they were R. P. 1. at Troy, and State Col- perfectly justified ... Why not take lege at Albany'? , . , A most in~ · back Williams and Cassidy In place teresting round - robin slate ·of the obviously inferior umps, and ·COuld hE' drawn up among these scout around for more talent ... three A1•ea institutions , .. This There should be new faces and top- yeai•, ior example, competition notch refs in such a lat·ge and ·pop- 'mongst all could have been of ular basketball territmy willing to the ·keenest type .• , The ad- travel to Schenectady for the at- mlnistation may claim that tractive pay offered ... nothing would b!' gainPd from 7-0ur iast pl'Oposal ... TbP- this association ... That should Athletic Department is a.lways b., furtht-rmost from its mind looking out for extra cash to . . Union and State CollegP fill thE' coffers .. , P~rhaps the have cooperated with one an- Student Council and· the de- other in various seminars, dis- partment can work out some c us s ions and intercollegiate :Plan whereby, for a small fixed movements .•• Why not con- amount, studen.t may .nave their tinue this relationship in bas- feminine f r i e n d s accompauy ItetbaU, one that is bound to be them free to the football and entertaining aud interesting?... basketball games next year •.. May we express our sincere At our neighboring college at hope that sometime ·in the very Troy, the student pays $10 for near future the college will see a season athletic ticket, en- its way clear to attempt to re- titling them to invite free a vive the small-college league weal{l'r-sex member to tbe eon- •.. We !mow that the depres- tests ... At Union, WP feel that sion cut short the strong <le- enough students would sub- sires by Union, Swarthmore, scribe to a simila.J! plan to Hamilton, R. P. I., Vermont, make it profitable and to en- Middlebury, and several others able the dep·artment to enlarge to form a league of their own... its limited athletic program •.• 4-The Athletic Department can allev:ate a none-too-serious plight faced by students, by the simple ex:pedient of one turn of a knob ... Reference is made to the show- ers dov:nstairs in the gymnasium ... They require but slight atten- tion as 1 egards their l'egulation to an even flow of water ... In that way students can be safely posi- tive that their heads will not be washed away by the si~zling force of the water, a.s at present. 5-Fencing should be made a varsity spm·t next season, whether minor or major varsity • • • Some six or seven years book, no less than 4() students turned out for the sport • . • Altl1ough not recognized .as an official team, the fencing squad repeatedly has turned in the best record of any of the win- ter sports outfits ••• Yet in- ciuded on the list have been c.olleges where fencing is a ma- jol' sport, no less • . . Once or twice in rlli!ent years the de p a r t me n t complained that its fencing budget allow- ed only an outla~ · for equip- ment . . • With the sport at;. tmcting the studeut following it does, and with the team replete with sufficient material for the time, the next step is recogni· tion • • • Whether or not the team goes on long trips or whetlter it slates matches with loeal groups, fair play leims to- ward a stable status ... 6-Difficulty in hiring basketball· officials who met with student ap- proval at the home games has al• ways been a headache to those charged with the task . . . This yea1' the game crowds witnessed good as well as bad refereeing ... Several of the whistle-toters be- longed. in the high school leagues from whence they came . . . For their 40 minutes of actual mat·a- FREIHOFERS BREAD :-: CAKE :-: ROLLS Daily Delivery Direct to Your Home TEL. 6-4224 DOUW F. BEEKMAN Gasoline - Brake Service U. S. Tires • Motor Tune-up Exides • Lubrication Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 601 UNION ST. Open Until II P. M. PHONE 6-3456 There seem to be e1npty seats at most contests, beckonin~ to be filled . . . For aboat $1.5() or so for• the entire football sea- son, and for about $2 or so for the basketball seas()n, other- wise restricted students will have the opportunity reserved to the few •. Along Other Lines ... R P. I. students might very well spend their time publicizing ·the fact that their college is in Troy and not Rensselaer, instead of busying themselves with innocuous matters. ... The article in the current issue of \The Reader's Digest\ certainly made them look silly ... From ball- player to lawyer, such is .the jump taken by Matty Begovich, formerly of the St. John's College \Wonder Five\ basltetball team a.nd mem- ber of the New York Jewels, Am e r i c a n Professional c o u r t league, who passed his New Jersey state bar exam recently ... Tem- ple will go in for nig:ht footbalL in elaborate fashion fot· the ninth consecutive season nex:t fall, play- ing five encounters under the arcs . with Albright, Texas ChriF<tian, Bucknell, Boston Co !lege and ·Georgetown, the last fout· on suc- cessive Friday nights . . . At last we'll have some valid. reason for visiting R. P. I., if only to see the uswede\ ... The Sports-Myth Is ex::pl()ded, vanishes into thin air . . , As it slowly fades into olllivlon, one can hear these faint words, \Good lucli -to aU Until we meet again soon ••. \ JEROME SMITH Warming -Up Again-Union's 1st Ski Team \ .. , ~ ·--~ The varsity team t.liat competed in tbe New York State Championships at Cornell two weeks ago. Left to right: Sherman, Jackman, Senn., Sc!IJltlebury, Owens, and Coach Gammons. Lawrence Drilling 22 Diamond Men With a roster of 22 topnotch candidates from which to choose, Coach Art Lawrence is supervising the daily indoor drills of the var- sity baseball squad with an optim- istic air these days. It is only to be inferred that the outlook for a strong nine and fairly successful season, in Coach Lawrence's debut as varsity diamond mentor, is very bright. Seven pitchers and the two reg- ular backstops had been engaging in limbering-up exercises for sev- eral days prior to the first regular and complete practice session for the entire team on Tuesday after- noon, Well-Balanced Team Four experienced hurlers, includ- ing three varsity team holdovers and one former freshman star, form the nucleus of a well-rounded pitching corps. Cbet Robinson, A1 Mould and Swede Hanson, the lat- ter incapacitated for about a week with a wrenched hip, along with sophomore Rog.er Moran are re- ceiving plenty of competition .for the top ·berths from the three re- maining hurling candidates, Joe Lubansky, Ed Keers and Mike Fiester. Meanwhile, the two catch- ing standbys, senior Dave Yunich and junior Harry Palmer, will bear the brunt of the receiving as- signments. Captain Franky Myers, Fred Pa- trie, Charley Brockner, Tiny Wein- traub, Alex Turchick, and Mickey Rathlev stand out as the leading players for infield berths, while Billy Thomas, Bob Feldman and Diamond Marotta pace the outfield hopefuls. The remaining list of men battling for the varsity posts include Jack Amazon, Bob Garnett, Bob Hincltle and Al Squire. From this month's ESQUIRE TAPE STRIPES The smartest thing in shirts: soft colors with widely spaced stripes. Arrow's in- terpretation is Tape Stripes. Sanforized Shrunk, fabric: shrinkage less than r%. Mi- toga better-fit. $2.50. Arrow neckties to go willi these shirts, $1. NUSBAUM'S 447-451 State Street Tournament Entries :Boxing 125-3i'i-Reilly, 131; Volz,127; Reyn· olds, K., 131; Leversee, 132. 135--45-Qrton, 136; Wardwell, 144, Santee, 139; Raft, 140; Semenoff, 140; Fog:;:g, 144 1-2. 145-55-Wells, 151; Lasher, 150; Clowe, IL, 148; Paul, 155; Marks, 147; Hm::kness, 154. 155-65--Killian, 162%; Davis, 164; Dingmam, 159; Mauriello, 163~.L Heavr>veight-Bothwell, 183; Mc- Carthy, 187. Wrestling Up to 125-McCartney, 125; Mead, 124\4: N\oonan 123. Up to 13i'i- Delcbamps, 134 'h; J Shermar::t, UO; Deul, 133; Thomas, 134¥..; ())'Neil, l<Hlf:l; Bowdish, 130; Phillips, D., 134; Dwyer, P., 126. Up to 145-Van Keuren, 136; Col· !ins, 148\>\.; Muther, 144; Holmes, 141; Kreusi, 144; Wa.lden, 140; Beer, 144; M~ jne.s, 139; Santoro, 142. Up to.:::158-Henderson, 156; Payne, 153; Wallnidge, 152; Senn, 148; Evans, 155'h; Christiansen, 152; Royce, 1!52; Stiles, 158; Lawrence, 148; Sclhulberg, 155; Golder, 157%;; Tanner,. 147; Nalkan, 150. Up to 186-Wait, 175%; Davis, A., 179%; Burns, 180. Heav.~vveight-Guerry, 190; Shaw, J. B., 197; Jones, P. H., 190; Kearns~ 187; Jillson, 196%; Sher- man, 1~7; Goldblatt, 191; Hatch, 230. INTRAMURALS Handball The pairings are posted on the bulletin board in the gymnasium. The semi-final round of each flight must be completed not later than Saturday, Ma.rch 11. Contestants must arrange their own matches. Boxing, Wrestling Classes Boxing and wrestling classes> are held under the supervision of Mr. Fitz and Mr. Ketz, respectively, from 4:30 p. m. to 5:30 p, m., daily in the gymnasium, The pairings for the boxing and wrestling tour- neys will be posted on the ground floor of the gymnasium on Satur- day, March 11. Boxing-Wrestling Tourney The schedule of preliminary bouts are posted on the bulletin boards in the basement of the gym. AGAIN! HAL KEMP on Victor Record 26165 \A Heart ()f Stone\ R. C. A. victrola attachment, $14.95 with $9.00 of records in- cluded . CASSEDY PIANO CO. 460 State Street Near Proctors PRAISE BE TO ARROW ••• Tape Stripes for Spring Designed particularly for college men, this Arrow ensemble of shirt, tie, hand- kerchief, and underwear is destined to find it's way into every college man's wardrobe. Authentically styled to the minute, tape stripes, spaced wide apart on a pastel colored madras will make this Arrow shirt a must for a well dressed I939· Every shirt has the incomparable Ar~ow collar, Mitoga shaped fit, and is Sanforized~shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than r%). In chalky colors of blue, grey, and green. Get yours today-$2.50. Arrow ties designed for these shirts • • $1. ARROW SHIRTS

Page Foul' TBE CONCORDIENSIS, FRWKY, MARCH 10, 1939 Munich Significa:nt ln Clarifying Eur·opean Situation I Co11cordy St<~f j Plans New Senior Staff Members of Concordy Board SodalizedMedicine WHI Be Topic Party Satruday Night Dr • .!lames McDonald Speaks on, \Must the Dicta+ors T ~iumpll ?\ The conference at ;)1un-ich wa• seen. as Eignificant -in da-ri!ying the European situa.Uon by Dt·. Jame\ G. McDonald, dit·ector of the Brooklyn Institute of Att\ and Sciences, who spol1e to the Senior and Junior Had·assah in Memorial Chapel last night. Dr. McDonald, whose topic W!LI' \Must the Dictators Triumph?\ was formerly chairman of the For- eign Policy associa-tion and a mem- bet of t-hP board for refugees hom Germany. \Any analy>is of the t·elative stt.ength- of the dictators and ce- moctacies a-s we'll as any guesse> as to the futut·e m-ust go back to Munich where fo-ur ml'n, repre; ent ing four .grea-t -countrie:o;, deciC:ec the fate of a fifth count1:y and pro found-ly affected the aJfair~ of -the whole of westet<n and cent raJ -Eu· rope. B rokP A:ll iance \This victory was mo~t :'ignifi- cant becau:'e it broke the alli-ance between F-rance and Ru~Pia, in fact If not in name. Russia was fmcec back into Easte1-n EUl'O})!' and .has cea~ed to have an i·mpm·tant voice in Europea•n -a-ffait·>. Hitler also won a victory over 1he -almo<t over-whelming-ly .public opinion ot the world. He wa>' a-ble to undo b;y -t hteat of force what had been constructed by means of a conqueror's peace.\ It was the conset·vative- faction in England, according- to Dt·_ McDon- ald, which made it possible for Hi-t- ler to impose his will on Gha-mbet- Jaln and Daladier. This conserva- tive group -pre!ened- a Hitler tri- umph to a genet-a! war. \Thet·e was a universal -demand on the part of the common people, for peace. Hitler and Mu~solini could affm·d to ign01e it but Chamber- lain and Daladier could .not:• Doesn't Want War \Hitler wants ·to gain his en-<l~ without war--met-ely by the ~how of fm·ce-_ 1-n the next few yeat·:', certainly wi-thin te-n years, the point will· be -reached when Britain will realize that to yield will mean disaster. Then the fate of the die· tato1·ships will be decided on the ·battlefield.\ The America-n policy in thiF ca.=e, Dr. McDonald said, would ptobably be -to support Ft·ance and Great Britain. \They a-re f ighti<ng o.ur -battle and we would· pro-bably pre- fer wa-r than. living ·in -a world dominated .by ·dicta tot ships. If it is the Pre:;i<lent'li ptllicy to rearm so quickly as -to dh;courage the <iicta- torshi.ps, he is much -ahead of the cuttent public opinion.\ ----0- -- Miss Wagner to Assist At Tidmarsh Recital Dt·. Elmer A. Tidmarsh will in- clude the v;ot·k\ of Beethoven, Elgar, Sibeliu:; and Shuman in his organ recital Sunday afternoon in the Chapel at 4 o'clock. He will be assisted by Miss Winifn~d Wagner who will sing the soprano aria \Allrnacht'ge Jungfrau·· (Blessed Virgin) whidi is sung by Elizabeth in the opera \Tannhauser.\ The following three group:; will comprise the program: I Minuet in G-:Ceethoven. Adagio f l' o m S o n a t a Pathetiq ue-B~ethoven. Moonlight Sonata - Bee- thoven_ II Pomp and Circumstan~e­ Eiga.r. To a Wild Rase - Mac- Dowell. Allmacht 'ge J u n g frau (Blessed Virginl Wagne1·. Finlandia-Sibelius. HI-Traumerei and Romanza -SchumallD, Serenade-Schubert. The Rosary-Nevin. Rhapsody in Blue- Ger- shwin. C .. S.MOODY OPTOMETRIST 115 B'way Tel. 6a5747 Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted Three Doors from State St. Tht> CoB.cordiensis staff is holding a party Saturday night to celebrate the clecticm -of the new editorial staff and the re- tirement of the present ·board. Fredrick Hequembourg, .c>Utgo- ing editm, ref.used to divulge the place whet'e t-he pa1·ty- will be held but said it \will defin- itely nut .!Jc !held in the ~iounte­ banlLS theatte.\ No facul·ty members will aJ- tend this year's .pa!Fty but the guests of honm· wiH h.e mem- brrs of the job p1·inting depart- ment at the Schl'nectad;-,' Ga- zt\ttt> where 'T·Ite Concordiensis is _pl int ed. .I\:! so In vi ted a1 e :Milton M. Enzer a.nd Fte<letick Calvin, publicity manager for the Mohawk D1arna Festival. Other gue,;ts will include only those >tuden\8 who have had son:r connec·tion with the pa- per. .Of Town M:eeting Stebbins and Irving, State HeaHh Directors, Will Lead Discussion The Empire State Town Meeting. . of the Air on Sunday, March 12, will discuss the- topic: Should Med- ical Attendance Be Made Available to All t:he People, And If So, How? The leaders in the discussion wil. be Dr. Ernest Stebbins, Directpr oJ the Division of Communicable Dis- eases, New Yorl~ State Department of Health, and Dr. Peter Irving, Secreta1y of the Medical Society ol the State of New Yotk. As usual', Dr. Fox will act as t-he chairman of the meeting and -each spealter: wi'll speak for eight min- utes, after which they wi-1-1 submit to questioas by the audieNce. List important Pcirrts Drg Archibald ·Black T S k S d LPft to dght: C. Russell Deyo, Managing Editor; ChristophPr 0 pea Un ay Fahy, Sports Editor; George Pecli, Ne1vs Editor; and Edwin Fitz, At Chapel Services _F_e_atu_v,_E_d_ito~r·-------~---- Some of the impot>tant points that al'e pertinent to thP discuesion are: Would the physician's initiative .fm good service and ·improvement be destroyed by ·flat sa:lar y compensa- tion? Would not the cost to society of keeping people well be less in the end than salvaging and supporting the dependents of physical wrecks· caused by Jack of early care? And would not government supported medicine become a political foot- ball; would it not encoUJ age ma- lingering and chiseling? Has Seen Minister Feliciano Gonzales For 18 Year_s Tells of Life At Montclair Church I p + R\ Dr. Archibald Blaclt, minister of n or 0 ICO the Fil't't ·Cong r.egationa-1 Chut·ch of Montclair. N. J_ ;ince 1921, will speak at the Sunday mo1·ning chapel- ><'rv-ices in the Y.l.emorial Chapel. Describes People, Customs Of Homeland in Chapel Wednesday Morning D1·. Bladt w·a8 bozn in Rothesay on the Isla-nd of Bute. Sco-tland. FeHciano Gonzales, '41, described He I eceived 'his eat Iy school train- his ho.meland, customs and tecrea- ing at the Arademy there. and re- tions of the people of Porto Rico, ·ei\•pd his A.B. ft·om Glasgow Uni- in a talk in daily assemb!y Wednes- vet·>ity in 1906. After a ye-ar of day morning. Trtition Installments Payable Wednesday The ~econd installme-nt of tuition for the second semester i:o ·due and should be paid Wed- .U()sd-uy, MDrch -15 No bills have been issued and it is requeE-ted that a.Jl students having pay- -ments due make them on the abDve d.ate. Any que:otion re- gmding the- an:ount due \hould be asked at the Comptroller's O!Hce- a-t once. A.Il payments made after the a·bl>-ve date will be subject to the UEUal fine of $2.00. The Comptroller's Office will -be open for the collection of tuition instaillments on Wednes· day, Ma-tch 15. tt·aining for the min-i8try at the The inhabitants of the count1y U-nit{'(l F't·e-e College at Glasgow, ate ptedominently Spanish and he came to t-his country and enter- speak the Castilian form of that ed ·the Union Theological Seminary language, slightly modified by their in New Yo1 k to complete hiE geographic separation from the com·se for the 'B. D. degree. homeland. And while the Spanish ---------- In 1909 he -was o!'dalned by the language because of its sonorous New York Presb:',·tery to })reach as qualities is indeed the language of min'i>tPr of the Bedford Park PreE- romance, it is, according to Gon- b:',terian ·Chmch, New York. where zales, also a language unequalled in h<\ ,;erved for five yeatf. In 1914 profanity. The well versed Porto Dr. Black entered ·the Congrega- Rican can swear from dawn to sun- tiona! denomination as minister of set without so much as repeating the South ·Congregational Church. himself once. However, even in Concord, :-r- H., serving there unti-l this, the language retains all of its 1919 wh.-n he <became assistant to luxurious. romantic tone. Dr. Geoq;e A.. Gordon .in the Old Chaperones are an integral part South Chur·ch, Boston. Since 1921 of Porto Rican romance. \Felinie\ he ha:o been rnlni~ter of the Mont- explained that they never seriously clair chu.tch, occupying the pulpit interfere with the business of Jove ma•de famous by Dr. Amory H. but are more of a defense against Bradford. 'The .church now has a- the possible effects of too much member,_llip of over seventeen tiopical heat and a Porto Rican hundred. Dr. Black has two br·ot-hers also in the minhtt·y, Doctors Hugh and J-a·mes B Ia elL ----0 R. P. I. Professor Speaks to Engineers The JVfarch meeting of the So- eiPty of Engineers of E:astern New Yorlt was held Wednesday evening, March 8, in the Old Chapel. The scheduled speaker, Mr. H A. Mohr, of the Raymond Concrete Pile Company was unable to be present. Instead. Professor Paul E. Hen;tke of Rensse Iaer Polytechnic Insti- tute spolte_ He is professor of APl'Onautics :at the Institute, and discussed the question of superior speeds in aircraft. Following the address hy Profes- sor Hemke, the audience entered into a general discussion of the question. and queries by the audi- ence were answered by the speaker. Reston rant· Tap Room·Dcllw.tessen ALWAYS POPULAR PHONE 4-6614 moon. The favorite spot t of the island- ers is swimming, although in this they are slightly handicapped by the presence of sharks. The Most Perfect Laundry Work in the Capital District I AMERICAN A-1 LAUNDRY Ph. 4-3166 1030 Barrett St. SUITS GLEANED • PRESSED TWO SUITS Cleaned and Pressed B~;: 93c Call for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ I CLEANERS I G&~ ~RS 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 NOTICES Placement &ureau Notice Representatives of -the Intema- tionBJl Business Mae hines Co1 p. wm be ·l>n -the campus nex:t Tues-ca; and WedneEday and will meet Etu- dents at a dinner -and discussion to ·be held at the Chi Psi Lodge TueE- da:.y evening_ Further informat-ion can be cbtained at the Pla-cement Bure-au. J. S. HANDELMAN c;>UALITY GROCERIES and MEATS Fresh. Fruits & Vegetables Daily Fresh Butter and Eggs FREE DELIVERY Phone o-60 16 920 State St. . Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 :Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO '\Quality Service Sa·tisfacfioB\ !iCf8 B'way - For Better Values EYeryfhing Electrical We Cater to Union Students a11d Their Guests JAS. F BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS JAMES REST.AURANT 426 StCite. St. 206 Cli,...ton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. The Town ~feeting is presented in cooperation with t·adio station_ . WGY and the United States Office. of Education_ Eve1yone is invited· to come to the rreeting and to ask any relevant question;s in the dis- cussion period. UN I 0 N COLORS GARNET MAKE THl: NEW UARSIT YOUR CAMPUS FAVORITE! You·ve never s~:en a pipe so amaz· ingly •zeu· and right as V ARS!TY. Bonded around a bowl of genuine lralian briar is a sholl of perma- nent plastic. in your college colors. And cbese colors can't chip, can't burn, can't crack. Ic's the smooth· est smoking, sweetest pipe you ever put bEtWeEn your teeth. Light• weight; wide, comfortable bitt. See it - today ! At your favorite dealer- ONE POUAR Pat. Pe>tdi11g Slightly less than actual ~l:ze. VARSITY PIPES sold exclusively at THE UNION COLLEGE DESSERTS FOR ALL OCCASIONS FANCY FORMS and ICE CREAM CAKES Gazette Press BOOKSTORE and ~op;~ Jersey Ice Cream Company P ~ . rtnt:tl1.g GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street p A T R 0 N I z E c 0 'N c 0 R D y A D v E R T I s E R s I w l.nforr Z-511 Vo-l. L::X Indus WillE Durir Swo Pos+-Cc In lndw To Be' Gerard General J .. Evans elates, !I the spea: the con governm ganizing here Apt The pt ing, wh executiv< di-rectors rna:! fon sion of stitution. dustry a The c to abou town, rt medium· tions Joe New E1 nounced Hall, co- ·Enginee conferer Sir He pc will no' as simi conduct< Pennsyl Purdue tive re~ of Unic venient sentattv from B1 The t year's princip~ \practic with I~ lems in cation 1 Mr. E ing da: Mr. S\1 speaker same n Profe sors Wi of Mon mer F. day's ~ other week. rector will be Others are Pr Dr. Ve ton M. Fait By [ \I a few w more 'faith' 1 pastor Chure Sunda Dr. ing tl and p societ' friend ''So mirac to be it pr times, in fai differ• mals advar man our f est f the 11 Dr. sensil law 1 does ness fin all

Fros'h Will Hold l.nformal Dame Z-511 '.\:. _ . ./ .. :! • Sheldon Cheney. • Reappointed For 2-Year Term' Vol LXII., No. 4J UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 1939 PRICE FIVE CENTS lndustria;r Forum Will Be Held :Here Duri.ng AprH Radio Club Sentls Communications Wittner Requests A·s Far A·s the Philippine Island~ . Adva~:e~ Date . Apprexilhately 80 radio messages• . . . . . For Initiations Swope Is Speaker Post-College P~dblems In Industrial Education To Be Considered ·.have been sent for Union students '· throL]gh W2GSB, the Union College ; Radio Club station, since February • 1, according to John Gardiner, • Publicity Director. Some of these communications have traveled to . such distant points as. the Phili}l- • pine Islands, Cali.fornia, and Florida .. Gerard Swope, .j>resident of the General Electric Company, and M.: J .. Evans, president of Evans Asso- ciates, Inc., of Ghi~ago, are among the speakers who >Rill take part in the conference Ol'J. industry and. government which Union is or· ganizing and whic\1 will take place here April 17 and 13. The purpose of toe two-day meet- ing, which will be attrnded by executive officers and personnel dkectors, is to \establish an infor- mal forum .for the sincere discus- sion of problems common to in- stitutions of higher .[earning, to in- dustry and to .gove:mment.\ The co.nference will be limited to about 100 guests from out of town, representati\Ves from small, medium-sized, and 'large organiza- tions located in New York and the New England states, it was an- nounced by Professor Russell A. Hall, coccl:\.airman of the Division of ·Engineering and chairman of the conference commiti:ee. Similar Con!Bl'IIDCe Held The ·Club stands ready to trans- mit radio messages to all parts of the country free of charge. These are known as \traffic\ in the par· lance of amateurs. To facilitate \traffic\ the club is connected with the American Radio Relay Leag\le. One of the activities of the ·league is the \acceptance relaying and delivering of messages.\ All one need do to send a mes· sage is to write it out on a sheet of paper or on the special form provided •by the Radio Club and drop it into the club's box in the lobby of the Electrical Engineer- ing building. The complete address of the person to whom it is being sent must be included. Gove1·n· ment restrictions prevent the handling of messages to foreign countries. One of the many operators in at· Cheney Reappointed For Two-Year Term Rumors to the effect that · tendance every afternoon will transmit the message either via \phone\ or code to the amateur station nearest to the point of de- Uvery. In case the receiver Is too fa.r away for the station to reach his area, the message will be sent as .far as possible and relayed .to its destination. Unfavorable con- tacts and poor radio transmission may delay its delivery. 'The radio- gram may be delivered to the ad- dressee by the receiving amate·ur via telephone if he is ·in .the same city, or on a special form sent through the mail if he is some ·dis- tance away. Delivery service -is also maintain- ed by W2GSB to Union students and faculty members. These mes- sages may be placed with any amateur station and after the col- lege station has been contactecL, the messages will ;be personally de- livered. The club also maintains a spe- cial service for slders. Every Fri- day it contacts amateurs in the vi- cinity of ski slopes in order to pro- vide Union skiers with knowledge of snow conditions. Workshop Presents .Catskill Legend Andrew Speziali,. '42, Takes Student Lead In Contest Broadcast He pointed out that this region Sheldon Cheney, Honorary Fel- : will now be as adequately served low in Fine Arts, would not r.e- as similar industiial conferences turn to the campus next year, conducted by Rutgers University, were dispelled yesterday when Pennsylvania Stat.e College, and Dr. Fox announced Mr. Cheney's Purdue University for their respec- lth The Radio Workshop will pre- reappointment. \I announce w , M h tive re~rions. The cecntral location sent its first program for arc - great pleasure the reappoint- - · 1 O f Union College maltes it a con- C today at 5 p. m. when an ongrna ment of Mr. Sheldon heney as venient meeting . ..,lace for repre- ·dramatization of a Catskill Moun- ..,. Honorary Fellow in Fin.e Arts sentati.¥es from a region extending tain legend will be broadcast over for a term of two years.\ from Buffalo to Boston. the General Electric short wave Mr. Cheney has just con- XA w AD Th The tentativ.e .p-rogram for this · eluded! his annual visit to tll.e stations W 2 F and 2 X · e year's conference will have two campus and will return ne&t script for the skectch was written principal topics of discussion, year in his official capacity as by James G .. Shaw,d'U, abndRt~e \practical methods of cooperation Honorary Fellow. program is bemg pro uced · Y 0 - with labor,\ and \current prob- ert Schulberg, '41. in conjunction !ems in post-colleg;e industrial edu- with John Sheehan, '24, program cation and trainin.g.\ Frate rn' 1 t. 1 e s PI an manager of the stations and dircc- tot· of the Radio Work:>hop. Mr. Evans will address the open- The program will be transCI'ibed ing day luncheon, April 17, and Rus·h'lng Booklet as it is broadcast. One recording Mr. Swope will 'be the principal will be sent to Mr. Colin Hager, speaker at the dlll.ner meeting that manager of radio station WGY, same night. Hayner Has Charge .who will consider it for broadcast Professor Hall said that Profes- B k over that station. Another trans- sors William w. Bennett, in charge Of Investigating · 00. cl'iption will be mailed to a con- of Monday's meetings, and Morti- Similar to Swarthmore's ference of educator's at Ohio State mer F. Sayre, in charge of Tues- as an entry of W2:XAF and W:2XAD Dean Garis Sends Letter To Fraternit.ies Asking Changed Date Next Year The ;possibility that fraternity initiation week mig'ht .be moved .forward from its pt·esent position to the first week in March was ex- pressed by Dean Garis last week in letters sent to the various .fratern- ities. In his letter, he pointed out that his action on the matter had been caused by a discussion with Professor J. Harold Wittner, in which the latter stated that initia- tion week, as it now stands, seri- ously interferes with the winter s.ports program. \Initiation week breaks up the winter season for .every sport ex- cept hockey, which is usuaJly over by that time\ stated Professor Wittner. He added that the Christ- mas recess and midyear ex:;runina- tions, which are inevitable, also in- terfere with the swimming and freshman and varsity basketball programs. With the present sys- tem, games come in. too close suc- cession, such as varsity basketball games December 14, 17, 2() and Feb- ruary 10, 15, lS. in the past season, Mr. Wittner continued. Such runs of games are hard on the teams and indirectly unfortunate for the college since they are often respon- sible for defeat, he concluded. It was Mr. Wittner's o.pinion that the moving up of initiation week would help somewhat to alleviate this dif- ficulty. Garis' Letter In his letter to fraternity heads Dean Garis stated: \We are all anxious to have thing,s run as smoothly as possible in the college and from the standpoint <>f the col- lege there is no reason for not ad- vancing the fraternity initiations as requested. \Will you please give rne your re- action to this request? You will re- member that wll.en tWs date was set it was set .by agreement be- tween the alumni advisers of the fraternities and the administration of the college. It is faT this· reason that we would not care to change the <late wi.thout your willingness to cooperate in making this change possible.\ ----0---- day's program, w-ill announce the The first March meeting of the 'in an educational radio broadcasts other speakers -within the next Interfraternity Council was held contest. Mr. Sheehan s:aid that he week. Frederic />... Wyatt, '32, di- last night In the Student Activities had all his entries chosen, but that rector of the Placement Buraeu, Office. Because there were n~>t he was so impressed by the script will be in charge of registration. enough delegates present to con- that he would discard one of thenn Others assisting on the. committee stitute a quorum, no actual J>.usi-· in favor of the wor~hop presenta- are Profess()r Warren C. Taylor, . ness was transacted. A discussion tion. As the program must ·be in Dr. Vernon A. o•Rourke, and Mil- was held, however, concerning the the mail by Wednesday, March 15, ton M. Enzer, '29. proposed rushing booklet whkh tile Mr. Sheehan insisted on immediate Freshmen Plan Informal April Hop Upperclassmen AdmiHed By Speciallnvitati,on: Cost of Tickets Nominal ---CJ- __ council intends sending to all ac-. production. cepted freshmen, along with the Experienced Cast Faith Is Defined By Dr. Black Says It Is Seen In Those Wllo Use It Practicall'y, college's material. · Experienced Mountebanks per- Several types of booklets were. formers have been cast for all the mentioned, but the g:roup favored roles. Andrew Speziali, '42, and one that would be made up hy a Viola Patterson, co-stars of \:ROB- committee representing the floater- mersholm,\ will portray two of the nities and presenting their view- leading parts. Herbert Grant, '39, point. The estimated cost of the manager of the Mountebanks, has book is not kno'W!l, but this cost also been cast. The other men in may be shared by the adminlstra- the production are James Wade, tion or by a small tax on the ft•a- ternities. It will be modeled after '39, Edwin Fitz, '40, and Bradford a similar booklet now being 11sed Hastings, '41. Edmund Kelly, '41, will be narrator, and Schulberg at Syracuse University, Swarth- will announce. The freshman class approved plans for an All-Freshman Dance to be held in the gymnasium on Sat- urday, April 22, ~y an almost unani- mous vote at a class meeting held Monday morning in the Old Chapel. The dance is to be an informal af- fair, with special events planned during the evening. Tickets will be seventy-five cents per couple and the sale will be limited to freshman alone. Uj>perclassmen will be admitted only upon invitation. Student council representatives will receive special invitations. Glee Club Manager ·Library Ready . To Distribute . Classical Records Small Rental Fee List Includes Many . Of M·ost Popular • Classical Selections \The classical record albums that I have on hand are ready for .'immediate circulation among the ~s-tudent body,\ said Mr. Heimer ·Webb, college librarian, in an in- terview with a \Concordiensis\ re- . porter this morning. \The records will have a carrying charge of 2 per cent of total value,\ continued Mr. Webb, \and they will be dis- tributed on a weeldy basis. I also hope that a recording machine can be installed, if at all possible, at sanae future date for the benefit of students who do not have ready access to a machine.\ ROLLIN L. TWINING Carr Predicts Successful Dance Skidmore Chorus Has Extensive Pro9ram Of Activities Enthusiasm for the joint concert of the Union College Glee Club and Skidmore College Chorus to be held in Memorial Chapel on Saturday evening ·is running high, accord- ing to Louis Carr, '40, chairman of the Student Council committee on arrangements. The Skidmore Chorus, managed by Helen Muller, '39, of Nutley, N. J., is composed of 60 members of the three upper classes. It plays an important part in the regular Skidmore College program, alter- nating with the Freshman Chorus in furnishing music for the weekly vesper services, as well as provid- ing music for Commencement, Founder's Day, and other college events. Rollin L. Twining, '39; manager of the Glee Club, is mak- ing the arrangements to trans- port and entertain the Skidmore Chorus. Radio :Br<>adcasts Circulation of the albums will not be controlled in the same man- ner as· that of books, and will be filed only in the office of the li- brarian. AU records must be bor- rowed personally from Mr. Webb, and will be personally examined by him for any evidence of serious mishandling upon return. The library has, at present, 21 of th\e approximately 125 albums in the Carnegie collection ready for distribution. This number will be Increased by the immediate pur- chase of new records, for which $50 has been allotted to Mr. Webb. The new albums will include: Bee- thoven's \Fi f t h S y m p h on y\; F r a n c k ' s \F i r s t Symphony\ ; Brahm's \First Symphony\; Bach's \Toccata Fuge in D Minor\; Stra- vinsky's \Fire Bird Suite\; Strauss' \Death and Transfiguration,\ and Beethoven's \Third Symphony.\ Present Collection The following record albums are in the library at the present time: Bach's \Sonata No. 5 in C Ma- jor';; Bach's \Sonata No. 3 in E mi- nor\.; Beethoven's \Missa Solem- nis\; Brahms' \D Concerto\; Brahms' \Academic Festival\; Bee- thoven's \Symphony No. 1 in C major\; Brahms' \Sonata in A ma· jor''; Brahms' \Sonata in D minor and Madrigal.\ Franek's \Sonata in A major\ and Symphonic variation selections; Gregorian chants; Grieg's \Con- certo in A minor\ and \Peer Gynt\; Haydn's \Quartet in D minor,\ \Quartet in D major\ and \Quar- tet No. 74\; Mozart's \Phantasie\; Liszt's \Hugarian Rhapsody,\ \Polonaise\ and \Sonata in B mi- nor\; and Mendelssohn's \Con- certo in E minor.\ Records by Yehmann, Schumann, and Gluck will be included wit'h those of Strauss' \Tod u. Verk- ( Continued on· Page 4) The Skidmore Chorus has ap- peared in several important broad- casts over Station WGY and Sta- tion WJZ. In March, 1936, the cho- rus accepted the invitation of the Music Education Association Con- vention to sing at its opening ses- sion in the Metropolitan Opera House. Frequently the group singe in New York Cit.y under the au- spices of the Skidmore Alumnae Clubs and before other groups in the capital district. Last year the Union-Sltidmore clubs gave a con- cert in Albany for the benefit of the library rund. Festival Plans Tickets for the concert and dance, for which the Skidmore World Premiere guests have been granted special late leave, are on sale at $1.00 per couple. Tbey may be had at all fra- ternity houses, the college ··book store, student activities office, and the barber shop. Helen Jerome's New Play To Have Russian Actress As \Charlotte Corday\ inore College, and the University of Illinois. Hayner Committee Chairrn!Lil \I am sure tlutt there are very few words more misunderstood or more misused than the word 'faith';' said Dr. Archibald Black, pastor of First Congregational Church, Montclair, N. J., in his Sunday morning chapel sermon. Dr. Black co~tinued by clarify- David Hayner, '40, was appoint- ing the complex. meaning of faith ed chairman of a committee to and pointing out its importance to look into the matter further'. The society, business, government, and rest of the committee will be an· ---•0--- D. W. Griffith's 'Intolerance' To Be Shown Wednesday Plans are also tentatively being made to provide a \date service\ which will provide girls for those freshmen whose only objection is that they know no body .in Schenec- Jack Lanny's orchestra, which played for the second All\College Dance last year, will provide the dance music. Known throughout the eastern colleges for his \rock- in'-rhythm\ style of playing, hi:s band is composed of college grad- uates who perform as a glee-in- strumental club. A world premiere will take place on the campus this summer when the Mohawk Drama Festival will present for the first time on any stage Helen Jerome's new play \Charlotte Corday\. As the title in- dicates, the play deals with the French Revolution and the life a.nd death of the revolutionary leader, Mar at. friendship. nounced later this weelt. \So often faitJJ. depends upon a At the same meeting, it was an- miracle's happening . . . Faith is nouneed that De•an Garis had ac- to. be seen in th<lse who have used·· .cepted the recent resolution in re- it practically_ From the earliest gard to the presence of women in times, men have walked and lived fraternity houses with but minor in faith, which is the fundamental' changes In the wording. difference between man and ani- The code as originally approved mals . . . Proll~~obly the greatest stated: advances we h~ve made as a hu- man race have; been because of 1. No unchaperoned girls are our faith, and .probably the great- to be allowed in fraternity est failures have been caused by houses. the lack of it.\ 2. A girl is chaperoned when Dr. Black defined faith as \the she Is accompanied by a sufli- sensible and practical basis of all cient group or by an older per- law and order_ .. Without it one son or persons. does not prosper. When a b.usi- 3. Girls must be entertained ness lacks faith,. it declines and in the public rooms of the fra- finally cea.ses to ·exist . ternity houses. D. w. Griffith's \Intolerance\ tady. Final plans for this service, will compose the program for the which would be an innovation, thil·d of the series depicting the have not been completed. Plans history of the cinema to be shown for chartering a special bus from Wednesday in ·Old Chapel at S.:OO Skidmore were also made. · o'clock under the auspices of the This All-Freshman Dance marks Mountebanks. The cast includes such oldtime the first time in over ten years that any similar event has been favorities as Lillian Gish, Erich von planned by an entering class and Stroheim, Monte Blue, Frank Ben- marks the first appearance of the nett, Constance Talmadge, Colleen class of • 42 in a social event. Moore, Douglas Fairbanks and De Wolf Hopper. The dance is an outgrowth of an The film \Intolerance\ is of ex- attempt to revive class rivalry by treme importance to the history of 'Dr. Waldron. It was suggested the cinema. It employs all the old when the idea of resurrecting the and many new technical devices of .old class banquet was held impos- its time (1916) including the close- sible. up, the \eye-opener\ focus to intra- The committee, of which William duce vast panoramas, and rapid :Coates and Armand \V. Feigenbaum cross-cutting which was an innova- are co-chairmen, is looking for tion in those da.;ys of the early cin- further suggestions or innovations ema. •from freshmen. Dr. E. R. Caley to Address Chemical Society Dr. Earl R. Ca;ley, a:sststa11t pro- fessor of chemistry at Princeton University will address the New York region of the American Chem- ical Society when it meets tonight at 8 o!clock at Russell Sage Col-. lege. Dr. ·Egbert K. Bacon, of the chemistry department, anno11nced · that the topic of Dr. Galey's tn.llt would be: \The Application of Chemistry to Archeology.\ He also expressed the hope that Union College chemistry students would attend the meeting, asserting that it will be interesting and educa- tional. A notable stage star, Miss Ell- genie Leontovich, will play the title role. Miss Leontovich has garnered accolades for her performances in such successes as \Grand Hotel,\ \Twentieth Century\ and \Tovar\ ich\. ·She received her schooling for the theatre at the Ruesia.n Im- peria·! Dramatic Academy and made beT :first professional appear- ance at the Imperi-al Theatre .in Moscow. \Charlotte Cord&y\ is schedu'led for presentation in Paris next F'a.ll. Miss Jerome, who dramati:lled two fine plays ·in recent seasons- \Pride and Prejudice\ and \J·ane Eyre\-w:ill spend a week or more on the campus this summer to help supervis·e the first production of \Charlotte Co!'day\. / t . .

Page Two Q.lnutnr FouNoEo 1877 \A Causa Persa Parole II ssai\ ~!em her of the Associated Collegiate Press and clistrihutor of the Collegiate Digest. The official newspaper 'Of the stud~nts of Union College. Published Tuesday and Fridays through· <>Ut the college year. Editorial Tho oms, Silliman Hall, Union CollA<>;e Cam· pus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4·013~. l't;blicatlon Oifice, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Schenectady, N. Y, Telephone 4-~Hl Enter•d at the Sehenedady Post Office as Second ClaHs Mail Matter. Subscription price Five eents a copy; $3.00 a year·;· delivered a.nywhere In the Unite<'!.._Sta-:.:t;::es::_• __ Senior Board Lawr<>nce \'. Pellettier, Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief 24 N. S. South College·--6-9728 !\lax Len . . . . . . . . Business :V1o.nagcr Kappa Nu House 4-73:31 C. Russell Deyo . . . . . . . . . . . . Managing Editm Chi Pst Lodge -4-ll527 Clu·istophe•· M. Fahy ........... SJJOrt.s Editot Delta Upsilon House 4-7922 Georgt' Loadwick Peck .......... News Editm· 1278 Parkwood Blv'd -4-9208 Edwin A. Fitz, ,Jr ............. Feature Editor Lambda Chi Alpha HoU,'E' -- 4-0531 Jobn !Halont' ............ Circulation Manager 1091 Keyes Ave. 4-6931 REPRESENTEO FOR NA1ION.1.L A.UVC.RTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N, Y. CHICAGO ' BOSTON ' LOS ANGELE.9 .. SAN FRANCISCO Paul Beckel Sheldon Jenkins John Lewis ,Junior llaard John Phillips Hobert Schulbe1g Janle$ Twining Sophom01 e Board AlPxand<'t At·ony, At·mund FiPgPnbaum, John riJOW, Samuel Portnoy, Jonathan Pearson Business Staff Robert Eisner, Jack Rabinowitz. Donald Haigh, Laskar Schwartz, Arthur Davis, Andy Kay. Justin Perlstein, Stanley Greenstein. l\iyrun :\!ills. IssuP Editor .............. ShPldon C Jpnkins .\~~i~tatt1~: .1. T\\ i.lllll~: .. \. FJt~gd1haum. ~ Hlt~l·.h· rn:llt, .J. 1; l'l 1\\ Tuesday, March 14, 1939 OUR GOAL THE CONCORDIENSlS, 'TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 1939 H~~ ~~ve long despaired at the lack of co•l-11 M 0 T 1 0 N ~ ~~~:' T~•~b';.;Y~: :h~ swdrni • lege and class spirit at Union. Through some •-=============:.Ill Council to see its way clear to re- , phenomenon, this spirit apparently could nof N0t since All Quiet on the West- moving the bleache1:s for the dance ern F1-ont has the moving picture 1 11 1 th Gl Cl b C t · ·. be made to 2:l'OW here. ·o ·ow ng e ee u oncer 1s ~ industry produced so bitterly real· the only reason why I shall tal~e Each year the entering fresh.man class istic a dl'ama,-poignant with hu- my date elsewhere to dance. Rather man suffering, throbbing with hu- th b' t d t t h b · \'Ould 2:ive a lla·lf-·he~l·l'ted show of entl1 .. u:s~. · · an su Jec my a e 0 sue ' 0 Vl-· \ ~ , man emotion,-as The lee Follies ·ous bad taste, f would rather go iasm, but the end of the fir·st semester of 1939. to the expense of driVing to Al- II \ d h 1 d · tl TheJ·e have been times in t-he bany and the DeWitt, etc. usua \ tOI:lll· t e new 1nan entrenc 1e m 1e \ past when H0llywood has hidden Silly as it may seem to most g-rave of indiffe1·ence .along with the upper- its head ·from reality but, we feel· Union men, my date has always classmen. Class dvalry, class spirit, and,. sUJe, a new era is dawning-an believed that things are .done in era in which th emovie producer the correct way and 'in a most g:ra- above all, college ·spirit wel'e apparently out will seize s•odal problems by the cious manner here at \Old Union.\ of place here. neck and· be3t them i11to submis- And over my dead body is Mr. Witt· sion. The Ice Follies of 1939 has ne1 , or the CouncH, or whoever· is The class of '42 entered Union with this shown the way · · · let 0thers fol- in charge of the dirty old bleach- usual amount of spirit, !.Jut campus wis€'\ law! ers, going to change that sweet It would be mockery to attempt young lady's beautiful illusion of acres smugly p1·edicted that th·is, too, was to sketch briefly here the pageant. this ivied and hallowed institution. but a \flash in the pan.\ Thanks, howevet·, of life which moves. across the lf the Council proposes to have sc1·een in this film. It is vnal! It Is . a formal dance, then they should· to the eff·orts of D1·. Waldron, Student stark! It is gripping! It surpasses· also be in accord with their deci- Council President Yunich, and the freshman The Informer in cumulative dra- ·sian, and the bleachers wi'll cer· matic effect, Lost Horizon in· tain'ly not add to the formality of class officers, this spirit did not sabside im- cinematic symbolism, and The Good • the occasion. mediately, and even showed signs of increas- E!Hth in pictorial magnificence. The Council has a social obliga- And underneath it all is the sip~-' tion to the student body, to the ing. pie story of a simple boy and a· girls of the Skidmore Glee Club, Today's \Concordiensis\ contains a story simple g.irl. leading their simple to guests, and to \Old Union.\ lives in their simple way. Oh, but There are about 40 members of the which hears testimony to the fact that the it's heart-wa 1 :ming!! Council. If they got together at class of 1942 is sincere in its desire to foster Seldom has Miss Joan Crawford 2 ' 00 P· m. on Saturday, at 3:00- class unity. Meet1'n~r 1 · 1 , Old Ch,·'pel yes·ter·-. given the screen as sharply-etched no bleachers. ~ ' • a performance as this. She shows: How about it men? day morning-, this ·class voted overwhelm- the inwardness and solidarity and Chesterfield. ing approval of a plan, origiHally proposed emotional fire 0f a truly great ac- --- 0 tress. James Stewart, too, is splen- F It d St d t by Armand Feigenbaum and William Coates, did, and dynamic is the ward far .acu · Y an u en 5 CALENDAR Tuesday 7-9:30 p. m.-American Insti- tute of Bankers Examination Civil Engineering Building, Room 201. ·wednesday 10:00 a. m.--Daily Assembly- Edwin J. Jackman, '39, Radio Club. 2:00 p. m. - Placement Inter- views Continued - Interna- tional :Business M a c h i n e s Corporation, Silliman Hall. 8:00 p. m.-Cinema Program- D. W. Griffith, Old Chapel. Thursday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly- Dr. Paul A. Zabl. 7:30 p. rn.-Pyramid Club· Meet- ing, Silliman Hall. 7:30 p. m.-Theta N.u Epsilon Meeti·rtg-Dr. Ligon's Office. 8:00 p. m.--Facurty Men's Club Meeting--Faculty Lounge. 7:30 p. m.-Schenectady Engi- neering Societies-Old Chapel -Spealter, Health Officer Dr. Wil'liam C. Treder·. Friday 10:00 a. m.-DaUy Assembly- Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh. Employment Bureau Busy The Si.uGent Employment Bu- reau is again endeavoring to find summer employment for Union stu- dents, according to Miss Frances Travis, Director. With this in mind the Bureau has already contacted 'several leading exhibitors at the World's Fair, but the chances for calling- for an all-freshman dance. The pro- Lew Ayres. The Ice Follies of 1939 Have Fingerprints Taken is not only one of the Ten Best. Forty-one students and several employment are small because of members of the faculty and per- the policy of rewarding long-time sonnel had their fingerprints taken .employees with a chance to parti- and filed with the CivHian Identi- cipate in the exhibits. The Bureau fication Department of the Fed- expects to continue its efforts and ~ral Bureau of Investigation this plans to contact about 300 smaller past week. The work was in c·harge exhibitors at the Fair. Miss Travis of the Schenectady County Com- stated that were students to be mittee for Social Adjustment and employed, they would probably be Crime. as guides, guards and maintenance posed dance is to be informal, and it will be for 1939; we venture to predict open to freshmen only. The admission price that it will come to be regarded as one of the Ten Best of all time. to the dance is to be nominal, and the com- The second feature, Dangl\r mittee has several plans which, if carried Island, deals with the vulgar ad\ out, should make the affair an interesting- ventures of a Mr. Mota. one. \\' e believe that such a dance will prove * * * an ideal medium. foe promoting class spirit. Dark Sands drifted into the Strand on Sunday, so we dropped :\Iembers of Llte committee inform us that over to see how it was done. Not Dean Gal'is has been more than receptive to too well, we beg to report, although it had some songs by Paul Robe- the proposal, that he has offered his co- son which would rescue any pic- operation to make the dance a success, and tUl'e. Pygmalion is due at the State on he has even indicated that more functions the 24th. -JJ. M. of a similar nature might be ananged if this ·--· -a---- Notices first dance is successful. Certainly such an endorsement speaks for itself. The prints will be used only by men. As yet, the exhibitors do not the Civilian Identification Depart- know how many employees will be ment, and will not be available to needed. the F.B.I. for criminal purposes. Applications for jobs as summer Because of the small number whu camp counselors wi'll be ready at took advantage of the opportunity, the Student Employment Bureau's the Committee will return to the ·office on Monday, March 20. How- campus in the near future. ever, summer employment is not from the International Business l\'fachine Corporation will discuss placement with that firm. usually definite until the latter part We take ovel' our position as editors of So, for the first time in our mem:oiy, we find the fresh1nen planning a dance of their own. We can only hope that the dance re- ceives enough support to justify the efforts of the committee. If the dance is successful, the first y.ear men will have good reason to boast that the revival of class spirit at Union was started by the class of 1942. The Traveiers rnsumnce Co. will conduct a Radio City Insurance School at Radio City from April 3 to April 7. Seniors or others in- terested in this opportunity must register before March 20. James l'IJcCreey & Co. of New York will interview all seniors in- lei ested in retailing at their offices during the Easter vacation. of May, when resort owners know how the trend of business will be. Thus no positive answers at·e avail- able before June 1. Last year the Bur·eau was successful in placing a large number of students in camp and summer hotel positions. the \Concordiensis\ with but a single goal in mind: to serve Cnion to the !.Jest of our abil- ity. In this respect, we believe that our chief assignment in serving om· Alma :\later will be to present her ne\vs as cleal\iy as fully, and in as unbiased a lig·ht f1S possible. Our editorial policy, also, will l>e guided l>y this desire to serve Union. If we feel that this service can be best rendered by ct·iti- cism, we shall be critical. If, on the other hand, we believe the welfare of Union will be benefited by a policy of approbation, we shall express our approval of the matter in :\lore power freshmen I Cynics will gloom- il~· pt·edict dismal failure for your dance, and possibly they wi11 be right, but whether it l.Je a complete \flop\ or a huge success, the \Concordiensis\ salutes you for your show of spidt. question. In beief, if we feel that we will serve Union best b~· stepping- on feet, we APPEASING THE CRITICS shall not hesitate to step on feet. If, in our In past yeat·s the pages of \The Concordi- e:ves, a pat on the back !s more in order, we ensis\ were ofte11 enlivened by heated dis- shall be glad to pat backs. cussion of the service rendered by the Glee There will undoubtedly be many 'vhose Club to the Union College Student Body. theories as to the direction in which Union's :\.lany students felt that the Glee Club, re- v•elfm·e lies will differ from ours. Our \In ceiving money ft·om the student tax, was not the i\Iail\ columns will be at all times open to those who disag-ree with us, and any com- fulfilling its obligation to the students when munication of reasonable length which its concert appearances on the campus Wei'€ bears the signature of the author will be limited to occasional chapel programs. printed. We will withhold the identity of a On Saturday evening- the Union College correspondent if he so wishes. Glee Club will comhiae with the Skidmore We plan to break the \Concordiensis\ tra- Colleg-e Chorus co·mposed of sixty members dition of writing exactly 27 inches of editor- ials for each issue. There is bound to be a loss in the presentation of a formal concert in of spontaneity when editorials m·e written the :\lemorial Chapel. The concert will be to fit a specific space, and we feel that an further enhanced by the dancing, sponsored editorial which is not spontaneous cannot be by the Student Council, which will tak.e place so sincere nor so interesting as one which immediately after the concert in the Alumni repl:esents the definite convictions of the Gymnasium. The evening of entertainment writer. has been offered to the student body for a To enable us to use this \sliding\ editorial column, we intend to use whak is known as nominal sum. No longer may the students \filler\ columns-that is, columns of rna- char·ge that the Glee Club is not discharging terial which has no particular time value. By its obligation to the student body. this means we shall be a:ble to write only To all the critics of the Glee Club's place those editorials which we feel should he in the activities of the colleg-e, your attend- written, and we shall be able to devote the· ance will be evidence of your sincerity in de- rest of our editorial colunin to this filler. We realize that this is p001' journalism, per se; . manding- such a concert. Foi' all those who but we feel that if this sacrifice of journal- have been consistent in their praise and ap- ism mechanics will improve the quality of preciation of the Glee Club, the evening's our editc;>rials, the sacrifice will be justified. program speaks fol' itself. R. H. Macy & Co. of New York will be glad to interview seniors interested in retailing as a career with ~. Junior Executiveship to promising applicants. Their offices in New York will be open for this purpose during the spring recess. The R. H. Donnelly Corporation, publishers of directories, has open- ings for salesman. Inquire at the Placement Bureau for applications. Starts TODAY! John Barrymore in \TilE (~REAT ~IAN VOTES\ 2nd Big Hit! This evening at 6:30 in the Chi Psi Lodge, three representatives If five or more men apply at the Placement Bureau, a Naval Flight Surgeon will be sent to the campus :o examine candidates. \The Ad>entures of Jane Arden Htarrln~ Rosella 'l'owne Tnni~ht is \SA RA'fOH A :SIU liT\ I T TAKES a lot of squeeze to put a r,ooo,- ooo-volt x-ray equipment in a container only four feet in diameter and seven feet long, especially when its less-powerful pred- ecessors required a special building fi2 feet long, 32 feet wide, and 36 feet high. But recently, without much. ado, G-E scientists applied the necessary squeeze and com- pleted some surprisingly compact x-ray equipment. Such squeezing naturally involves a few innovations in design. So innovations were in traduced. The I !-section x-ray tube was put inside the novel transformer, in the space normally taken by an iron core. Gas having an impressive-sounding name, di- chlorodifluoromethane, was used instead of oil as an insulating medium, roo pounds of this gas doing the war k of six tons of con- ventional oil. Then the equipment was mounted in the grounded metal container, thereby enclosing the r,ooo,ooo-volt circuit and eliminating the hazard of electric shock. Looking at the apparatus, you note a striking absence of moving parts, for the control of the appara- tus is essentially electt·ical. The first of the new units will be installed this spring in Memorial Hospital, New York City, providing medical science with an- other poweriul weapon in its war on disease. TH£ UHOCJS£ Of MAGIC,. B£(0M£S TWINS T HE world-famous G-E \House oi Magic\ show lias become twins. It had to, for it was placed in the predicament of having to be in two places at one time-the New York and the San Francisco Faii-s. One twin-directed by R. L. Smallman, Calif. Tech '33 and ex-Test man-is already holding court on San Francisco's Treasure Island, site of the Pageant of the Pacific. The other makes its bow April 30, opening day of the :-Jew York World's Fair. Its director is W. A. Gluesing, Wisconsin '23, also an ex-Test man. The thousands of VISitors to these Fairs will see such feats of modern magic as a voice-cOlltrolled toy train, a magic carpet, zigzagging pictures of sound. They will see the stroboscope, which makes it possible to see the spokes of a whirling wheel just as if the wheel were motionless. However, entertaining as these demonstra- tions are, they represent far more than mere tricks of modern magic. They symbolize the work in pure science that is constantly tak- ing place in G-E research laboratories-work which is the basis of General Electric's contributions to the world of the future. GENERALfj ELECTR~~ 0 If y( on the see tha is now Cone< tions, ( Her to you future ward ment i cooper1 to rep1 partm.E and th Athleti CitE In tl letter ; l\1r. W bleach< ium fo \Chest the tr1 WittnE loanin~ for th< the cc arrang Sr Jere myth and h lion i calm, tude c in offi M1·. goods vocate pong- gram the \ Sport~ cor die which athlet sion o letic t ThE most since ple m to th but a the p: pointE It i minis Athie the .P formE 1931 head.E direc1 COmlT poor lieve not ~ meml whet' trati< anotr has 1 the rathE Cone Adm the only pacit purp cam I migl: choo 1'1 gues shou tiga1 of r Com Athl hap~ appc its r Mar s, as a port in t whi last som be c

io a- or\ ub gi- pel y- Bu- find stu- the for of -time parti- and be ly ,be o not be at Row- s not part know ill be. avaii- the camp THE CONCORDlENSIS, TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 1939 Page ThFee INTRAMURAl BOXING BRACKETS A PECK OF SPORTS The following is a schedule of the intramural bt>Xing pairings, the first round of which will be completed tonight. 125 to 135 lb. Class An Open Letter ReHly, Beta Theta Pi Volz, Lambda Chi Alpha Reynolds, Kappa Alpha >Leversee, Lambda Chi Alpha If y()U lr'lO'k at the H1asthead : on the opposite page,. you will see that Christopher M. Fahy;'135 to 145 1-b. Class is !lOW sports edi-tor of the ·. Wardwell, Delta Upsilon Concord i en sis. CoHgratula- Fogg, Neutral tions, Chris! , Semenoff, Oldgym Hall Santee, Phi Delta Theta He has asked me to convey : to you the following as his. future pc>licy. His attitude to) Orton, Chl Psi ward the Athletic Depart-:; Haft, Phi Sigma Delta ment is one ·Of wholehearted i 145 to 1:55 lb. Class cooperation. He will attem;p-ti to represent the Athletic De-! pm·tm.ent to the st11dent body: Lasher, Deita Upsilon Gagen, Psi Upsilon and the student body to the Clowe, Delta Upsilon Athletic Depmtn~ent. Harkness, Neutral Cltesterfield Off Track Paul, Phi Sigma Delta In this issue you wiJ.l see a! Marks, Psi Upsilon letter asking the \Council Ol' 155 to ~65 lb. Class 1\ir. W1ttaer\ to remove the: bleachers from the Gymnas-' ium for the daHce March 18.! \Chesterfield\ is a little off: the track for mentioning Mr. • Davis, Phi Gamma Delta Mauriello, Neutral Killian, Beta Theta Pi Dingman, Phi Gamma Delta vVittner, 'because he is only! Heavyweight Class li Bothwell, Psi Upsllon o• McCarthy, Neutr-al 3/H 1- 3j2ii 3(1-1 3jl4 HlY!') S/14 3/25 3j20 S/H 3(H 3(20 3/lt 3(2:i 3(.\4 {BJe l S/20 3/2;; 3/20 I 3/25 loaning, so to speak, the gyn for the dance, and it is up t the committee in charge to arrange it as they wish. INTRAMURAL WRESTLING BRACKETS Smith•s 'l'hree Points J er()me Smith of .Sports myth fame went out Friday and he certainly left like a lion in comparison to his calm, serene, lamb-like atti tude during- the year he was in office as sports editor. _i - lVh·. Srnith made some very good suggestions when he ad- vocated the addition of ping pong to the intramural pro- gram next year, addition of the Athletic Director and Sports Editor of \The Con cordie11sis\ to the board which fonnulates the college's athletic policy, and the admis sian of guests on student ath - - . - letic tickets. The first point is probably most likely to materialize since it will probably be a sim ple matte1· to add ping-pon,g to the intramural program but a few barriers loom in the path for Smith's last two I - ; points. (Thmugh March 13) Below ate listed the second round pairings for the wrestling tournament, the first 10und of which wa.s completed last night. Up to 125 lb. Class McCartney, Alpha Delta Phi (Bye)· 1 3/20 I 3/25 Mead, Kappa Alpha Noonan, Phi Delta Theta 125 to 135 lb. Class Sherman, Delta Upsilon I 3/14 Bowdish, Phi Gamma Delta I I il/22 : Deul, Kappa Nu I 3/H I O'Neill, Phi Sigma Kappa I s;2o Delchamps, Chi Psi I 3/20 Dwye1·, Theta Delta Chi I 3/22 Phillips, Phi Gamma Delta I 3/20 Thomas, Lambda Chi Alpha 135 to 14.5 lb. Class Walden. Psi Upsilon I 8/14 Beer, South College I I 3/22 : Muther, Delta Upsilon I 3(14 \ 3/21> Holmes, Kappa Alpha 3/22 Santoro, Lambda Chi Alpha I 3/H Collins, Delta. Upsilon I 145 to 158 lb. Class :S:enderson, Chi Psi I (Bye) Payne, Delta Chi I 3j20 3/11 I Tanner, Phi Gamma Delta 11/21> Senn, Delta Upsilon l 3/14 Golder, Phi Gamma Delta I il/20 I Lawrence, Phi Sigma Kappa \ 3/H I Royce, Phi Delta Theta 158 to 174 lb. Class Krull, Beta Theta Pi (Bye) I 3(25 Griffith, Phi Delta Theta 3(22 Harwood, Psi Upsilon 174 to 186 lb. Class Wait, Chi Psi .I 3/22 Davis, Psi Upsilon \ 3/29 (Bye) Burns, Theta Delta Chi Heav wei ht Class y g Jones, Chi Psi 3/20 Sha\v, Beta Theta Pi 3/22 Sherman, Phi Sigma Delta 3(20 Jillson, Phi Sigma Kappa 3;25 Goldblatt, Phi Sigma Delta 3/20 Hatch, Psi Upsilon 3/22 Kearns, Delta Chi 3/20 Lacrosse El:igibles l Wrestling Contests Mark Opening To Practice Indoors . . d o Indoor practice for varsity and Of Intramural Mat an Ring Tourneys freshman lacrosse will be held in the gymnas.jum this week accord-· ing to the schedule announced re- cently by Professer J. Harold Witt- Golder, Tanner, Payne, Senn, Walden, Muther, And Ho'lmes Take Matches; Royce Wins by Default ner, it was announced today by· Seven wrestling matches in the-0·-------------- Frederic A. Wyatt. . Grmnasium last night inaugu.r·aled position. The bout went six min- . utes· and one second before the ·varsity diver received the pat on the baek from Referee Wittner denoting victory. After the bout Payne, even though he was the win- ner, was exhausted and had to be assisted to the sidelines. Fundamentals will be the con- the 1939 intramural wrestling and cern of the candidates after a long boxing tournaments. The elimina· winter's lay-off. It is indefinite tion bouts will continue untii when Coach William Harkness will March 25 when the finals are sched- return to the ·campus to beg.in for- uled to take place before a larg£ mal drills, except that it is not audience of sub-freshmen who will likely he will return until outdoor· be the guests of the college durihg drills are possible. that weekend. Stanley Walden,. Psi Upsilon, de- feated William Kreusi, Sigma Phi in the other time advantage fray. Kreu:;i was the aggressor during the first few minutes of the bout and threw ·hls opponent several ·times, but Walden rallied in the closing minutes to win by three minutes and fifty-three seconds. The sophomores make up the, Eight matches were scheduled 'argest number of men who will last night, but only seven occurred probably report for the va·rsity. because of a default. Five of the They are: Richard Balch, John seven ended in falls, white two Canfield, Mervyn Green, John Gui- went to the winners by virtue of bert, Paul Mara, Robert Molloy, time advantages. Ronny Ostrander, Gordon Parker, To open the hostilities, John Senn, William Wardwell and Dickinson Delta UpsHon, won a close victot·y Griffith. over Robert Schulberg, Phi Sigma The seniors who will probably Delta. Schulberg took an early time Robert Muther, Delta Upsilon, d t h . 1 made short wot•k of Howard Van report are: Co-captains Doug Blue a van age over 1s c assmate, but and Han I< Clay, Wally Baker, who· Senn rallied about half way through Keuren, Delta Chi, in another short did not play last year because he the contest to turn the time ad- set-to. Muther had the advantage was the Union Exchange Scholar. vantage in his favor. The two men throughout and after two minutes at St. Andrews University in Scot- battled on even terms over the r·est and forty-nine seconds threw Van land, Ray Lewis, Walt Robbins, of the 1·oute, before Senn, captain- Keuren. and sumpty Irish. elect of the varsity ski team, got \Doc\Maines, who made a name Three juniors are likely to be. the final grip on Schul berg with for himself in the boxing tourna- candida:tes: Merlin Fay, Larry but 45 seconds remaining. He threw ment two years ago by battling Brockmyer, and Bob Slatterly. his opponent after seven and one- Billy Thomas through four close -----o---- Union Phi Gam's Beaten By Colgate Chapter Five Hamilton, N. Y., March 11-The Union chapter of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity last a close basketball game· to the Colgate University chapter, 46-35, he·re tonight after a spirited quarter rally by the los- ers fell short. Led by Dave Williams and Jack Dorsey, the Colgate team took ad- vantage of Union's inability to find the hoop in the first half and built up a lat·ge lead, holding it until the last quarter, when the losers, led by Ken Mackenzie, Phil Shan- ley. and Hudson Tanner staged a rally that gained them 23 points in seven minutes and brought the score to 40-35 in favor of Colgate. The winners sank three field goals in the last two minutes to end Union's rally. The game was part of a sectional tourney between chapters of Phi Gamma Delta at Union College, Syracuse University, Colgate Uni- versity, and Cornell University, A cup is being offered to the win- ner of the tourney. a--- Thursday Set as Deadline For 2nd Ping Pong Round The second round in the intra- group ping-pong competition must be completed on or before Thurs- day, March 16, it was announced today by Burt Brittin, '40, co-direc- tor of the tournament. Since a team must lose two games before it is eliminated from play, the schedule for this week includes a winners and losers ·bracltet. The winners' schedule: Sigma Phi vs. Neutrals; Phi Sigma Delta vs. Kappa Nu; Sigma Chi vs. North College; and Phi Gamma Delta I vs. Phi Delta Theta II. In the losers division: Phi Delta Theta I vs. Phi Gamma Delta II; Kappa Alpha vs. Delta Phi; Alpha Delta Phi vs. Lambda Chi Alpha; Psi Upsilon vs. Delta Upsilon I. PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. half minutes had elapsed. rounds, lost a close battle on the Boyd Golder finished Ross Chris\ mat to Dud Holmes last night. He tiansen in one minute and four- was leading on time until the for- teen seconds to win the shortest me-r varsity hockey team goalie got match of the evening. From his the final grip which caused his showing last night Golder should downfall in seven minutes and go a long way in his weight class forty seconds with only sixty sec- which contains only two veterans onds remaining in the .bout. from last yea1·: Hudson Tanner Charles Royce, Phi Delta Theta, and Donald Henderson, both jun- won by derault from Willard Mal- iors. When Golder, Phi Gamm, kan, Theta Delta Chi, last night. first grappled with his Lambda Chi Forty-fom· men entered the wres- opponent last night it appeared to tling tourney including the eight be a close battle, but he soon got who were eliminated last night, the advantage and. had· Christian- while 23 competitor.s will be in the sen's shoulders on the canvas. boxing eliminations. Among the Tanner-Stiles Battle entrants, there are four defending champions. John Krull and Fred The longest battle of the eve- Burns will attempt to retain their ning was between Hudson Tanner titles in the 155-168 pound and 175- and Charles G. Stiles. The latter 188 pound wrestling divisions, re- was a wary gladiator and for the spectivelr. Boxers Nathan Paul fi1·st few minutes it seemed as (Continued on Page 4) .though it was going to be a dancing exhibition, because Tanner couldn't put his hand on the freshman Psi U. The bout was interrupted sev- eral times by Referee Hal Witt- ner because both men were off the mat. During the course of the ex- hibition, two minutes and forty- three seconds were consumed when both fighters slid off the canvas frequently. Tanner finally won by a two minute, forty-eight second time advantage. The roughest set-to was display- ed by Burton Payne, Delta Chi,. and his taller opponent, Emmett Evans. During the course of their grap- pling, there were several body · slams with Evans. in the vulnerable J. S. HANDELMAN QUALITY GROCERiES and MEATS Fresh Fruits & Vegetables Daily Fresh Butter and Eggs FREE DELIVERY Phone 6-601o 920 State St. Healthful All Year •Round FRO-JOY C.S.MOODY OPTOMETRIST 115 B'way Tel. 6-5747 Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted Three Doors from State St. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Quality Service Satisfaction'' 598 B'way- For Better Values Unquestionably Favored I ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM It is entirely up to the Ad- ministration w h e t h e r the Athletic Director be added to the policy-forming board. In fonne1· years, previous to 1931 when Prof. Wittner head.ed the department, the director was included in the committee but with rather poor 1·esttlts. We firmly be- lieve that Mr. Wittner would not abuse his position as a member of the board; but whethe1· m· not the Adminis- tration is of this opinion is another matter. A student has never been a n'lember of the board, so it would be rather progressive to add the . Concordy sports editor. If the Administration s h o u 1 d add the sports editor, he should only serve in an advisory ca- pacity without a vote. His purpose would be to reveal campus opinion, so that it might be kept in mind when choosing Union's opponents. The possibility of bringing -----=----------------------- guests on student tickets should be studied by an inves- tigating committee composed of members of the Student Council, Tax Committee, and Athletic Department. P e r :-; haps the Student Council can appoint such a committee at its next meeting, Wednesday, Guerry, Phi Delta Theta SPRING SPORTS PRACTICE SCHEDULE l11terested in Schenectady lllterestfd in UNION BELLEVUE DAIRY PHONE 4-2553 March 29. Because five spring sports teams are now carr;Sring on indoor ]Jrac- tices, it has been necessary for Professor J. Harold Wittner to draw up ·the following schedule of practices which are held in the g)'Illnas- ium. The schedule went into effect yesterday and was mailed to all those who are supervising the indoor practice of the five teams. 1:00-2:30 2:30-3:30 3:304:30 4:30-5:30 Monday .... V. Baseball F. Baseball Lacrosse Tennis Tuesday .... V. Baseball F. Baseball Tennis Lacrosse Wednesday . V. Baseball F. Baseball Lacrosse Tennis Thursday ... V. Baseball F. Baseball Tennis Lacrosse Friday ..... V. Baseball F. Baseball Lacrosse Tennis MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jewder 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER and WATERMAN PENS So, as we make our debut as a sports columnist, we sup- ~rtilierefu~gwo~~HM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g in three of his seven points ii which he mentioned in his last column, and hope that something- constructive may Saturday ... Tennis • Tennis Lacrosse Lacrosse be done.rl., .:ti ncerely yours, George L. Peck. The Most Perfect Laundry Work in the Capital District AMERICAN A·l LAUNDRY . Ph. 4-3166 1030 Barret+ St. 633 State St. 226 Nott Ter. · 204 U~tion St. 1009 Chrisler Ave • PHONE 6-3456 ICE CREAM Gazette Press Printing II ''i,

Page Four Sheldon Cheney Discusses Flaws Of Mode.rn College Concludes Visit Makes Plea for Arts; Forsees New Leisures, Fewer Working Hours \The educational bus is swaying a little,\ said Sheldon C. Cheney, Honorary Fellow in Fine Arts, as he addressed students in morning chapel exercises Saturday. \What is wrong with the colleges is that there is too much science, too much business, and not enough art,\ continued Mr. Cheney., who urged· h1s audience to attain \an individual spiritual attitude.\ \If we must use harsh term:> and be serious about it, the situation of the world may be summed up a~ \putrid.\ Never was there a time when conditions were worse! Wai holds the center of the stage, and we have 10,600,000 unemployed.\ This was the manner in which Mr. Lhener made his plea for art. His solution for the worlds. problems was, \Each one should stick to his own job on the soundest basis he can muster.\ Jn preuicting a new leisure, Mr. Cheney said, ··When we straighten out the lines of work and politics, none of us should work more than three haul's daily. After we regu- late this problem,, there's. no rea- son why we should be held down by employment as we now are.\ · Players Give First Road Show in Albany The Mountebanks gave their first road performance of \Ros- mersholm\ 'Thursday evening at the Albany Institute of His- tory and Ar.t. The play a:ttract- ed a capacity audience, which included Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox and Sheldon Cheney, noted au- thor and Honorar·y Fellow in I<'ine Arts. Despite the fact that the play was presented on a stag-e that is approximately half the size of the one in the Mountebanks Theail'e, the per- , formance was of such quality that the Society was granted a fifty per cent bonus over the guaranteed receipts. \Rosmersholm\ will be pre- sented at the Potsdam Normal School on March 30, and ne- gotiations arc undel' way to secure a second engagement, at either Syracme Ol' Watertown on this trip. Engineering Groups To Meet Thursday W. C. Treder to Address Local Societies on Health In Schenectady Dr. William C. Treder·, Commi.s- sioner of Health for the City of Schenectady, and President of the Union College Alu·mni Association of Schenectady, wU give a lectuve at the next to the last joint meet- ing of the Schenectady Engineering Societies in the Old Chapel, Thurs- day evening at 7:30 P. M. These meetings are held monthly in Sche- nectady and are p·repared by a co- ordinating committee headed by Mr. Harrison of t·he A I. E. E. and Professor Warren C. Taylor of the Civil Engineering field. THE CONCORDIENSIS; TUESDAY, MARCH 14, 1939· Heavy Sn.o·wfaU Brings Fo~rth Story QfFamousB.ZizzardFrom 'Tom Gould • ClassioaaliERecords C Con tii~>Ued from Page l:) 1 a r u u g'~ :an d \Rosendavalier\; Tscha.ikowvsky's \Romeo and Juliet\ and \Nui:cr.:ac·ker Buite\; Wagner We may think that we are now • selections·· Von Weber's \Freis-· undergoing a pretty severe winter, chutz,\ \lEun·yenthe\ and ·\Oberon'' with our eleventeen inches of wet the .fact 0 ry in which Tom was em- and Jlllc:ndoelssohn's \Midsummer snow and temperatu,re hovering .ployed at that time. Street clean- Night:s •Ililrcam.\ d f . b t t 11 ing devices were at a minimum· {'I)·.\ 1 , 1 •. E\Im LI'\'T aroun reezmg, · u ac ua .y we .u - \' .., ain't seen nothin' compared to the also. Accordingly, the ho·rses and B:<ch~l:l01nata no. 3 in l•J minor blizzard of , 88 . sleighs which were in use then Opera. :;electi .. ons (naturally), merely packed down Beeuw,·eu-J..l'iss Solemnis According to Tom, the campus the .three .or fifteen feet of snow on Hrahms-!ll' l'mlf'ert'flo A Brahms-.A<'B!I.demic ~estival \cop our present snowfall was an the streets. Moreover, .since they Beetho\''eJc~Bymphony no. l in c ma- 0rdinary occurrence back in the only went to the .trouble to make jot· days of bustle~ and handle-bar mus- one t!'ack in the street, traffic con- Hmhm:;~::3<•Lnata A maJor Hr~rhm-s-SOJ!lata J<> minor taches. On Ma1'Ch 11, 1888, how- gestion was at a maximum, when 1\la<irigoa.I', otct·. eve1·, even those hardy souls were there W!j.S any tra.ffic at all. I·:nglisb eiiJ~·er~ ta.lmn by surprise when, lo! and be- \2000 :yenr>• uf musie hold.! there arrived a blizzard which The people then regarded the J•'Faud;;:-oS<•Jt~la A major whole thing much ·more philosoph- ·l>'randc-Syn>phonk l\aTiation would have given Admhal Byrd the . 11 h d 1 t d f ti~lerllom chills, that is, it snowed to beat I'Ca Y t an we · 0 now. ·ns ea 0 · 1:regur·ian rbrl!lts h ___ . The weather man, more- worrying and stewing because they nrieg-ClPt·ll'erto A minnt· over, was inconsiderate enough to could not get to work or to town, · !lrieg-Pe.eJ Gynt they very wi·sely settled down to Hayrln-Q!IIIIL•tet D minor arrange for zero wea~her and a llaydn-t,!!m rtet D major h . h h'll d stay at home for a day er two. Ha,·.dn-'t'u 11 rtet no. 74 howling gale w . IC c 1 · e a person ' \' They did not e~pect to go anywhere '~1-ozart~E'Ii~tlltasie to tho: very marrow. The morning · L' t I' · h so 1 after a blizza-rd and none expected · '\z -'~u:wg:arran r ap 'Y after (the bHzzard) Tom wa!.ked Liszt-.PoJoJL.aise off his back stoop over in Amster- them to, so that neither society nor Lisdt-SnLnt.a B minor business suffered. ·, !\Tell<lelssolm ~com•erto lc minor dam and sunk in to his armpits in I.ehman 11 the stuff. Overland travel, shipping, After a few days, the weather· Sr·huma111::1 and communication we·re at a· turned warm, as it inevitably does lllucl> standst1'll for forty-eight hours. On in March, and the blizza·rd of '88 Straus>-\ToL! u. Verklarung StrHuss- Rllsenli:avalier open and level areas the snow lay melted .and ran down the streets of ;TsehaikuLWilc:y-R'orneo and Juliet three feet deep and in drifted and Amsterdam, and. likewise down the, Tsl'huiJ<OI.Vblc:y-!'lulrt'aPker suite banked places it piled from five to streets of a good many other towns, \\'aguer .sdedion Von \1\'eboer-Freisehutz fHteen feet high. (eye measurement and down the street in front of the von Webel'~f.Juryanthe from across the street). All busi- Electrical Engineering buildi·ng, \'o11 \1\'e{).eo-Oberon ness had to shut down, including Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. :\Iendelssolnb-l\lidsummer night's . dl'ealltl France 1 •22 to Sp·eak · ForUnion a.t Confab Cashmir A. France '22, head of the department of English at ;the Pingry School at Elizabeth, N. J. will represent Uni()n •College at his school's second annual ·Fire-College conference which is being held March 17 and 18, Mr. France joined the English staff of Montclair Academy in 1923, and while teaching there studied English graduate work a.t Harvard. The folloWing yea.r he joined The Pingry School 12s a teacher of Eng- lish and instructe>r of dramatics. During the .summers, he conducted ·the Monhegan Theatre at Monhe- gan Island, Maine. In 19>35 Mr. France was appointed head of the department of English, and holds that position now. Representa;tives of eighty -colleges will discuss fe·atu.res of their col- leg·es with .s.tudents from forty pub- lic and private schools in New Jer- sey at this two day conference. ----10 Ping-pong Tournament The second round of the ping- pong tourn<tment, both winners and losers brackets, must be played off by Wednesday, March ~5. Pair- ings are posted on the bulletin board in the gymn11sium . While on the campus, Mr. Cheney attended the Mountebanks tryouts for \A Private Venture\ in the theatre in Washburn Hall. On Thursday he held a roundtable dis- cussion with faculty members and students on several significant top- ics pertaining to recent develop- ments in the modern drama. He enumerated many of the reasons for the decline of the New York stage and also pointed out that in spite of the 1929 crisis, there has been an infl.ux of new blood into the theatrical profession. He explained that the college theatrical groups were the best medium of expres- sion for current trends of the mod- el n theatre because of the experi- mental ideal which they have de- veloped. This fosters the trial of a variety of techniques which the professicnal groups cannot try be- cause of the high production costs. Dr. Treder, '04, will speak on \The Accomplishments of the Health Department of the City of Schenectady.\ He will give a for- mal lecture and hold an informal discussion aftel'dwards. Dr. Treder was appointed Commissioner o.f Health of the City of Schenectady in 1937. Before this appointment he served as Coroner of the County of Schenectady since 1921, and Health Officer of Glenville since 1922. THE GREAT WALlENDAS ·--~o Town Meeting Considers Disease Dr. Ernest A. Stebbins And Dr. Peter Irving Debate On Sanitation Communicable diseases, sanita- tion, maternal and child welfare as well as other individual sick- nesses and disabilities were all men tion\ed as possible fields which could be placed under state con- trol during Sunday's Town Meet- ing of the Air. Dr. Ernest L. Steb- bins, Director of the Division of Communicable Di~eases in the New York State Department of Health, and Dr. Peter Irving of New York C:ity, Executive Secretary of the Medical Society of the State of New York. were the principal speakers in a debate on the question, \Should medical attendance be made avail- able to a.ll the people, and if so, how?\ in Old Chapel. Dr. Irving pointed out that \with many of the proposals for the ex- tension of public health sei·vices the doctor is in complete agree- ment ... The philosophy underly- ing- g-ovrrnm(lntal intPrvPntion is that the :::Hate should assume those obli?;ations which individuals, acting separately, cannot successfully dis- charg<' Medical care of those nutside the hospitals. that is, in th€'ir home~. i~ a field where previ- ous methods have been unsatisfac- tory and further socialization is undoubtedly required.\ Dr. Irving said that this goal is \exactly that which the State De- partment of Social ''Velfare and the State Medical Society are at this moment approaching.\ Dr. Stebbins. on the other hand, pointed out why it is necessary to extend medical services to all the people throug-h some form of so- cialized medicine. He did not sug- gest any specific means for effect- ing this purpose. He emphasized that \it is obviously necessary that competent direction must be given to any system of providing medi- cal care and that the technical dit·ection of the program of medi- cal car·e be in the control of com- petent medical authorities.\ •- ·--o--·- -- The soc·iety of New York State Professional Engineers is sponsor- ing this lecture, and the engineer- ing societies participating in these meetings are as follows·: The Amer- ioan ·Society of Mechanical Engi- neers, the American Welding Soci- ety, the New York State Profes- sional Engineers, and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. --~-o Wrestlers Open Intramural Tourney <Continued from Page 31 and Beecher Le·versee each will be trying for a repeat; Paul in the 145-155 class, and Leversee in the 125-135 group. On tonight's program. both box- ing and wrestling wlll share the spotlight. Seven scraps in each tourney are scheduled. The bouts will start at 7:30 o'clock, and all contestants are requested to re- port to Tourney Director Arthur C. Lawrence not later than the time for the first contests. The summal'ies: Hudson Tannel' won a time 11d· vantage of 2:48 over Charles G. Stiles; Johnny Senn threw Robert Schulberg in 7lA, minutes; Charles R. Royce won by default from Wil- lard Malltan; Burton Payne thTeW Emmett Evans in ·6 :01; Boyd Gold- er threw Ross Christiansen in 1:14; Stanley :Walden won from Bill KrPu'i by tim<' ndvrmta~P nf 3:52; Robert Muther threw How- ard Van Keuren in 2:49; Dudley Holmes threw Doe Maines in 7:40. 0 ---- Nelson Speaks on \Safety\ Tonight Before A. I. E. E. Mr. W. M. Nelson, a>'sistant works manager of the General Electric Company. will present a talk on \Safety\ before tonight's meeting of the A.I.E.E. which will be held at 8:30 o'clock in the Electrical Engineering Building. Mr. Nelson, who has long been associated with plant management, has had consid- .erable experience in the problem concerning the safety of the work- ers. HP will tell of many of his experiences and will show whal ingenious safety device was in- vented to remedy each situation. Besides the electrical engineers, all those' interested ·in factory op- erations are in~ited to attend this meeting. Alumni Meeting The Schenectady County Alumni Activity Pictures Association will hold its meeting Anyone desiring pictures of the for March at Hale Houof', March activities who has not yet obtained 16, at 6:45 p. m. The program will them may stil secure them by get- be conducted by the Schenectady ting in touch with 'Arnold C. Har- Boys' Club, with Rockwood Jen- wood, Photographic Editor of the. kins, class of 1937, as the P'rinclpal Garnet, at the Psi Upsilon House. speaker. a a Combination that has thrilled tniUions all over tlze world. combination The GREAT WALLENDAS the premier high wire artists oftlu world • • • and the TOP Combination for more smoking pleasure 1s Chesterfield (the can,t·be·copied hlend) The sun never sets on Chesterfield's pop\' ularity because Chesterfield combines ••• blends together .•• the world's best cigarette tobaccos in a way that's different from any other cigarette. When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure ••• why THEY SATISFY Chesteffield ~· .. the blend that can't be copied • •. the RIGHT COMBINATION of the world, s best cigarette tobaccos Copyright 1939, LIGGETT.& MYERS TollACco.(:O, \ ,] '· Cur Z-511 V<:Jl. L .Burt Ma,c Of I Lo 1939 And I Ann or Burt< nectad~ new st· man C nounce fessor faculty ann our: the ca1 tember 13th. Olm\ scherei tended in :1.936 chief l only rr camp. played: reau. List co Freshr: Olmste Upsilo1 c~ Next open • ber Btl registe They' Knob, arrivir Augus eel as be eig fessor The tially Johns< night'~ Ft•ank ogy D on HF the p: the st of foi nounc The tion\ at tho opens class amine the S' Seni• On Tue broug res en tion of H of a Supp• were or din ComJ sis tal Male, A. Vi ner l John class Af1 studE RobE unab flict, teet repo: erno meet nati, or p to b Stu Of PI com the will is 1· lati1 All ask• as t mee side tion II Ho~ of • last fa.ci aft• coli

ak of ;the J. his held The Mr. the leges col- pub- Jei'- ping- and layed Pair- . . Mountebanks Will ·Use : !; Z-511 I:. . . ~i l : i l ;{; ; ~1 • • Union May Be Represented At World's Fair PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1939 =.============t=====~======~~======~====~-~-=-=~~-========~=======================-==~===-~ VC:Jl. LXII., No. 42 .Burton 0·1 mst·e d Ma·de Directo·r Of Freshman Camp! Local Junior Chosen 1939 Student Leader Ar:~d Partial Program Ar:~nounced by Ket:z Burton H. Olm\Sted '<10, of Sche- nectady has been appointed the new student -director of the Fresh- man Camp according to an an- nouncement made toda.y by Pro-· fessar Wilford H. Ketz,. tile camp's faculty leader. Professor Ketz also· announced part of the prograra of the camp which will open on Sep- tember 8th and run through to the 13th. Olmsted succeeds Philip Duch- scherer as student leader. He at- tended the f.irst Freshman camp in 1936 as a camper and has been chief bugler \Since 1937. He is the only man who has attended every· camp. Next year's director is em- ployed: by the college News Bu- reau. He has been on the Dean's List corusistently and ·received his Freshman numerals for Lacrosse. Olmsted is a member ·of the Delta Upsilon fraternity. Camp Opens September 8 Next year's freshman camp will' open on Friday morning Septem- ber 8th when the class of 1943 will register on the college grounds. They will be transported to Pilot's Knob, where the camp is located, arriving there about noon. Dr. Augustus Fox: has been reappoint· eel as registrar. The cost will again be eight dollars for five days, Pro· fessor Ketz announced. The ca;np program has been par- tially completed. Professor Bur?'es Johnson will make the opemng night's add·ress, and Professor Franklin Chillrud of the Psycho!· ogy Department will again lecture on \How to Study.\ The rest of the program and the faculty and the student staff are in the process of formation and will not be an- nounced for several weeks. The college'\' .physical examina- tion will be given to all freshmen at the camp so that when college opens a good part of the incoming class will have already been ex- amined. Campers may also talm the swimming tes.t. ----o---- Seniors Form Committee On Young Alumni Support ~Block U /Jay' Speaker ;Mountebanks Plan ·Dual Production For May Week-ends Big Bad Ants Occasion LIFE'S First Visit Here Glee Club; S:kidmo:re (horus Join In (oncert Tomorrow; Dance Follows Lanny's Orchestra Wiii'Rock with Rhythm' Until I P.M. For Formal Following Program in Memorial Chapel Students and their guests will 'Grotesque for November' And 'A Private Venture' Occupy Organization The Mounteb~nks are preparing something new in the way of ,;tage entet·tainment for their next pro- ·duction. Present plan~ call for the showing of two plays ht the or- ganization's spring production in' place of the usual single fu\.1 length play. LIFE, the pictol'ial news week- ly has .paid its first visit to the Union campus today in the per- son of its representative Mr. 'Otto Hagel, who has :been busy .photographing Dr. Paul A. Zaohl's notorious South Amel'i- · ·can monster ants. During the · day he has also visited Dr. Emeet M. Ligon's experimental Ia.boratory of child psychology to consider its pessibilities a.so the · subject of a future LIFE cover- age. Mrs. Fox Decorates 'The Book N·ookl be admitted to the concert to- morrow evening bee of charge, according to an announcement nude by President Fox in Daily A.!;sembl:l' this morning. Ticl•ets for the dance which will follow tiu concert, howen·r, will cost $.1..00. These tickets may be ob- tainecl from members of the student council. LEO ROLLEY !Story on Page 3) The curtain raiser is a short pre- view called \A Grotesque for No- vember.\ It was written by Dan VVickenden, who graduated from Amherst in 1935, and it later wan the honor of being the first play to be published in its entirety by the \Stage\ magazine. The play, which deals with a light, philosophi- cal theme, takes place on the· ·boardwalk of a minor beach re- sort. It will be given on May 5, 6, 8, and 12th, and rehearsals will commence on March 22. The cast Mr. Hagel, who ranks as one of the best photographeTs of scientific subjects in the profes- sion, arrived in Schenectady Wednesday and has spent .most ef his three-day sojourn here taking pictures of experiments -of Dr. Irving Langmuir at the General Electric laboratory. WG Y to Broadcast Workshop Play will con.sist of Edwin Fitz, Jr., Committee Formed Anne Quigley, William Massee, , Bernard Kraus, Richard Day, and Program Previously Given Over Short-wave Station; Announce Changes in Cast T 0 Plan Fair Exhibit Herbert Grant. Speziali Has Lead C II R The main play, \A Private Ven- . · 0 ege . epresenfatives, ture,\ :was written by Mrs. Con- Thursday, March 16.-Colin Ha- ger, manager of General Electric Company's Station WGY, approved ·plans yesterday afternoon to pre- sent the Radio Workshop's dram- atization .of a Catskill Mountain Legend over the long wave band of his station on Monday, March 20,. at 6:30 p. m. The same program was broadcast on short wave this past Tuesday. Citizens Meet with Dr. Fox dace Stevenson. It will be given To Discuss Arrangements as an early Nineteenth Century A \Schenectady County Exhibit Committee\ including interested citizens 9f the counts and repre- sentatives of this college was organized at a meeting last night ·in the office of Dr. Fox in the Ad- ministration Building for the pur- pose of collecting- and placing a permanent exhibit in the New York World's ·F'air. The taS>k which the committee has out-lined for itself include'S not only ar- raruging the exhibit but raising the pre-requisite funds. A sub-committee on finance will attempt to supply $1500 to the organization. Once the where-with- all is raised, the principal pur- chase will cons.ist of an automatic· balopticon machine through which a series of 70 colored pictures, 16\ by 18\ will be rotated on a glass front to attraet passers-by at the fair. Prof. Mortimer F. Sayre, Harry J. Linton, and Milton M. Enzer will negotiate the purchase of the machine and edit its slides. It has alreac::ry been determined that photommal scenes of the col- lege, the General Electric Com- play on Friday, May 5; as a modern drama on Saturday, May 6; and will be presented in both farms on Monday,. May 8. On Friday, May 12, it will be presented in the pe- riod which has proved the most popular. The lead will be played by And·rew Speziali, '42, with Lon Barringer, '39, Douglas Stevenson, '39, and Roger Fowler, '40, holding the mare important roles. The cast is scheduled to meet with the authoress, Mrs. Stevenson, Monday night, March 20. ----0>---- Free Speech for Teachers To Be Town Meeting Topic Except for a few minor changes in cast, the program will be the same as the one presented Tues- day. The e;ectrical transcription of that program was sent to Mr. Hager, J.ohn Sheehan, '24, director of the Workshop announced, and met with his approval. This will be the first program of the group meriting such a re-broadcast. The SCl'ipt for the broadcast was prepared especially for ;adio by \Should public school teachers .be James G. Shaw, '41, and is· entitled allowed complete freedom of \The Man They Would Not Hang\. speech?\ will be the question dis- The program ha'S been produced by cussed in this Sunday's Empire Robert Schulberg, '41, in conjunc- State Town Meeting of the Air. The tion with Mr. Sheehan. meeting will be held from 2:45 Herbert Grant, '39, who por- p. m. to 4:00 p. m. in the Old traye<'L two roles in the original Chapel. broadcast, will be unable to appear The discu5sion leaders will be in the long wave presentation. He Dr. Bella V. Dodd and Dr. Arthur will be replaced by James Mulcare, R. Brubacher. Dr. Dodd is an offi- '39. Joseph Rossum, '40, has been cia! in the New York State Feder- tentatively chosen as announcer. ation of Teachers' Unions. Dr. Schulberg announced the Tuesday Brubacher is a gtaduate and for- pel'fot·mance. mer instructor at Yale University. All the other players will be He was, at one time, princdpal o-f heard in their original parts. An- Gloversville High School. Today, drew Speziali, '42, will be the nar- he is president of the New Yor·k rator. Edmund Kelly, '41, and Vi- State College for Teachers. ala Patterson will play the leading The Town Meeting wiH be broad- dramatic roles. The other men cast over radio station WGY from cast in the program are Bradford 3:00 p. m. to 3:30 p, m. Dr. Bw·ges Hastings, '41, James Wade, '39, and Johnson will act as· chairman. Edwin Fitz, '40. Resurrected Antiques Will Help to Furnish Washburn Hall Store The ticket sale far the dance in Mrs. Fox has consented to as-: the Alumni Gymnasium following · the joint concert of the Union Glee ;ume charge of decorating the club and the Skidmore College Cho- new \Book Nook\ announced Mrs .. rus in the Memorial Chapel on Helen Jenkins, manager of the Col- Saturday night is exceeding the lege Bookstore. The \Book Nook\ expectations of the committee of is to be the new title for the book- the Student Council which is ~pon­ store and is to be located in the left wing of Washburn Hall. In addition to a few of the furn- iehings in the present bookstore, many others of :ancient vintage will be added. An old, brown bottle neck jug has been renovated into a lamp and an aged earthen ware cr oclt has been ma d·e into a waEte- paper .basket, both of which will adorn the \Book Noolt\. The furn· ishings of the \Student Room\ at one time located in South College, will also .be pressed into service. From there will come two straight backed, rush bottom rocking chairs. two stationary stwight backed chairs and a desk. Besides the.-e fm nishings wm be a.dded a long stretcher table, six armchairs and a matching table. The \Book Noolt\ itself will have its wa:lls painted a cream color No shades will be used in the win- dows but they will be adorned with cream colored curtains wli.th ma- roon stripes. Of the present boolt- store furnishin\g only the two glass encased counters, one table and a. few other articles will be moved to the new location. ---o--- Dr. Waldron Begins Month's Florida Vacation Dr. Charles N. Waldron, Secre- tary of the College, and his canine companion, Heidi, are spending their winter vacation in Rockledge, Florida. Dr. Waldron and Hei·ci leit fo·r F1orida on Friday, March 10th and will be gone until the mid- dle of April. Rockledge, tbe home of Rollin Wright, '39, is the same resort that Dr. Wald·ron •choose for his vacation last wint-er. Before returning to the campus this spring, Dr. Waldron will stop off at WaPhington, D. C. to speal~ before an Alumni Meeting there He will then travel on to Detroit and. Buffalo where he will speak to the alumni of each. city. soring the event, Loui:o Carr, '40, ch·airman, announced today. Members or the Student Coun- cil removed the bleachers from the Alumni Gymnasium on Thursday afternoon to make it possible for the fraternities. to arrange im- pr omptu booths of their furniture on the gylmnasium fioor. Carr dsked the various houses to brmg their furniture to the gymnasium on Saturday and place it in any desired position. The removal of the bleachers also makes it possible for the band to be situated on the side of the floor. Chorus Members Dinner Guests The 60 members of the Skidmore Chorus will arrive at the Memorial Chapel by busses at 4 o'clock on Saturday afternoon when they will meet their escorts fo; the evening. Several houses have arranged fm· tea dances, after which the Skid- ·more guests will be entertained at fot·mal dinners of various frater- nity houses. The (Oncert, which includes light as well as classical pieces and se- lections by a double quartet, will begin at 8 o'clock in the Memorial Chapel. The Glee Club will open with a group of Czechoslovakian folk songs and a selection from Wagner. The second group will be composed of a number of light pieces, including \Heigh-Eo! For a Husband.\ A feature of the pro- gram will be Clifford Demarest's \Rhapsodie for Piano and Organ\ p.layed by Ruth Steele and Irma Newman. There will follow a group by the Glee Club, one by the dou- ble quartet, and several classical selections by the Skidmore Cho- rus. Two selections sung by the combined clubs will conclude the pz:ogram. Jack Lanny Pla.ys After Tuesday afternoon P-resident Fox: ·pany, and the American Locomo- brought together a conference rep- tive Company will be in-cluded in resenting the business administra- the exhibit. Spa.ce has been se- tian of the College and the Class cured for the permanent display of of 1939 to discuss the farmatio17 two diot•amas mv-ned by the Sche- of a Committee on Young Alumlll nectady Museum, one of which rep- Support, Present, besides Dr. Folt, 'resents Schenectady as it was be- were Prof. w. W. Bennet~,. ~o- ,fore its burning by tlie French and ordinatoi• of Student ActlVLtles, Indians in 1690, and another of a Comptroller Anthony Hoadley, As- Mohawk Indian Scene. Special sistant Comptroiier Charles T. cases for the dioramas will be pur- Male, Assistant Secretary Frederic chased by the co·mmittee. In addi- A. Wyatt, David L. Yunich, Sum- tion to its special :Photomural, in ner Irish, Benjamin Rathbun, and which 13 scenes of the campus are John Schultz, president of the to be depicted., Uniotl will be rep- class. resented by a case of historical To Entertain and Be Entertained On Campus Tomorrow Immediately after the concert Jack Lanny's band will provide dance music in the Alumni Gym- na>Jium. With the cooperation of the ad·ministration of Skidmore College, the guests have been given special late leave to make it pos- sible to continue dancing until 1 o'clock. Immediately after the dance the Skidmore girls will re- After an hour's discus,;ion the documents which reveal the found- student members together wilh ing of the institution, and its signi- Robert L. Hayner, who had been ficant achievements. unable to attend because of a con- . ---o----- flict, formed an executive commit- Dr. Brown, Baritone, Joins tee to study the matter further and report at another meeting this aft- Tidmarsh in Recital ernoo:a. Sentiment at the first meeting seemed to favor an alter- native scheme of an Insurance plan or pledges of annual contributions to be presented to all the class. ------0 Student Loan Interest Of 1% Due April I Professol' Anthony Hoadley, comptroller, .announced today that the interest on the student loans will be due April 1st. The interest is 1% and is charged on the cumu- lative loans since February, 1937. All students holding such loans are asked to pay the interest on time as the promptness with which they meet theii' obligations win be con- sidered in connectio11 with applica- tions for fur.ther loans. In speaking. of this interest, Hoadley explained that this policy of charging interest was instituted last year in the hope that it would facilitate the collection of loans after the borrowerso had finished college, Dr. Elmer· A. Tidmarsh will fea- ture selections from Bach, Wag- ner and Debussy In this week's aft- ernoon organ recital to be held in Memorial Chapel ·Sunday at 4 o'clock Dr. Tidmarsh will be assist- ed in this recital by Dr. Albert Ed- mund Brown. b:uitone. The following th1·ee groups will compri~e the p1·ogram: I Toccatu and Fugue in D Mino1·-Bach Air fm• tl~e GString-Bach Liebestod (Love-Death)- Wagner. Ride of the Vall~yries­ Wagner. II Vl'bPrr'pr You Walk-Han- del. III Peace --Hawley. Lord G{)d of Abrallam·- Mendelssohn. The <Hrl wlth the Flaxen Hair-- Debussy. Clair de LilJie--Debussy. The S.u]}mergoed Cathedral -Debussy. Final-Dupre. The Sltidmorc Chorus wlti~h sings wltll the UJtlou Glee Clltb hHe tom()rrow. Tile sixty-gir.l group is dlrect!d by nir. Elmer Bintz, Ill!~~' . ; fi · H ~ .. ~ J • J... . . . turn to their campus by bus. Carr tssued a statement to \The Concordiensis\ stressing that upon the success of this dance would hinge the future com·se of social ..:vents on the campus. Taking the place of the Interfrater·nity Night because of the change of dates to the fall, the affair is an effort to determine the popularity of inex:- pensiv.e dances. The patrons and patronesses are Dr. and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, Dr. Henr·y T. Moore, President of Skid- more, and Mrs. Moore, Dean and Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Miss Mary C. Collins, Mr. Frederic Wyatt, and Mr. Elmer Hintz. l'rogram Surmnarized The program follows: I, \Idyll by Saar; \Water Ripple and Flow,\ by Deems Taylor; \Come One, Come All\ and \Hail Bright Abod·e,\ .the March from Wagner's \Tann- hau:i'er,\ l'nion College GlE'l' Club. II, \The Silver Swan,.\ by Henry Purcell; \The Echo,\ by Orlando di Lasso; \Helgh-Ho! For a Hus- band,\ an English folk song ar- ranged by Boris Levenson; \Spin- ning Chorus\ from Wagner's \The Flying Dutchman,\ ananged by Richard Schmidt, Sltldmore College (Continued on Page. 4)

Page Two 01nnror birunia THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MARCil 17, 1939 records are used three times a ·week in his · . course in music appreciatioR, and that it would cause gTeat inconvenience if the re- cordings used in class had to be carried to ~ n t r.lt QI r :e a t GUERRA PHARMACY DRUGS, PRESCRIPTIONS, SUNDRmS WE SERVE 'SANDWIQHES AND LIGHT LUNCHES UNION COLLEGE STATIONERY 29c FouNDED 18n and from the library. He als<> refers to the: Robert Saaf, ex-news editor of The Concordiensis, .in his .generous: CJU(} Union st. t'OI•. Bnr~ett Pltone2·9H9 dm11uige which is eaused to the 'records by endeavot to express his emotions Ji~;;;;;;~;;;;~;;~~;;~;;;;;;~;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;~;;~~ \4 Carua Per sa Parole Assai\ ~lemlier \f the Associated Collegiate Press and cll~tr~hutor uf the Collegiate Digest. The ·official newspaper of the students ot Unlon College. Published Tuesday and Fridays through· out H1e college yeai·. Editori-al' R()oms, Silliman Hall, Union CollA!I'e Cam· pus. Telephone, Schenec~ady, 4-01:!3. Pnbllea:tlon. Olfico, The Gazette Press, 334 State St., Sehenectady, N. Y, Telephone 4-4Hl Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Secono Class 1\l:.til Ma.tter. Sul>scriJllion price Five cents a copy; $3;00 a year;· delivered a.nywhere in the Unlted_St-:::;at:.::es:::· __ Senior Board LawrPnce V. Pellettier, Jr ....... Ed·itor-in-Chief 24 N. S. South College-~6-9728 .......... , . . . . Business Managet· Kappa Nu House -4-7331 . frequent playino- and adds \Students wish- upon his retirement, has asked us . · • • . . o> • • . : to publish a poem which he has·· ·: mg to hear the 1eco1ds may do so UJ1J.der, writtet:l for the occasion . , : supervision and explanation 1>y taking a : course in music appreciation.\ This attitude certainly is n<it one becom.- : ing a professm·, and each of the arguments ' advanced can be refuted. In the first place, . a N. Y. A. wgrket· could be hi1:·ed to bring · these records to and from the library with- out any inconvenience to the class. We've done our best, God knows: we've t-ried ro make a worthy name. If we have failed, prestige -cur-. tailed, We bow our heads in shame. It is our dying wish that those Who follow in our wake, Will do a better job than we, For old Concordy's sake. As for the damag-e to the records occa- · Now is the time for all good men sioned by playing them, we doubt that these to come to the aid of Annese. The r'ride of Hoboken Wants to borrow CLOVER:LAND 'CREAMERY FOR PROMPT SERVICE 919 State St. :P;INE GROV:E DAIRY Inc. 118 S. iFerry St. Schenectady, N. Y, records have escaped unscathed from their a \tuck\ for the Union-Skidmore class use. Rumors, whether fouBded or not, concert with a date thrown in for ~~~~;;~~;;~~;;~;;~~;;~~;;~;;~~;;;;~;;;;;;;~ good measure .... Ask Jue Doty infer that several of these rec0rds are miss- about Hedy Lamarl''s new husband.· . l' .. C. Eu:sseU Ueyo ............. Managing Editor Chi Psi Lodge--·1-6527 Ch.ris\topher M. Fahy ........... Sport.s Editor Delta Upsilon House-- 4-\i922 Gt>mge Load wick Peel;; .... _ ..... News Ed-itor 127S Parkwood Blv'd·- 4-9208 ing. . . . Union College has its repre- It l \s l\n D·l'. Tl'dmar·sh's C\'ntention t·h. at sentatives at the Smith College Jay Jewelry Co. \' Spring Wee·kend. , . , Because of students wishing to hear thes€ l'ecords do so the 12 :oo o'clock liquor law in 306 State Street Massachusetts, James Bothwell, Ed,vin A. Fltz, Jr ............. Feature Editor Lambda Chi Alpha Hou.se--4-0531 Jolm l\lalone . . . . . . . . . . . . Circulation Manager 1091 Keyes Ave.-4-6931 by means of the music appreciation class: Ben Rathbun, Arnold Ha-rwood and that we disagree with him most vigorously. Fred Richards were seen shortly WAlCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING As he admits, these records were £iven to after the dance ended. drinking ,1\E.PRE:;.E.f'ITE.C FOil NATIUI'lAL. AO\/C.RTISING SY ~ milk shakes. George M11ler, Doug National Advertising Service, Inc. College Pt~blisbers Represe111alive Union College, and not to th.e music appre- Blue and Bob Schulberg were also · · 1 d th tl present. Schulberg's date and a 4 20 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK, N. Y. CI·U~A.GO • BOSTON ' !..OS AHGBLES \ SAN FRANCISCO elatiOn c ass, an ere a:ppal'eB Y was no couple of her girl friends hii•ed a specific stipulation as to their use. cabin in the woods for Sunday. We C t t d t h d t t k tl . hear the beer was flowing abun- anno a s U en W o · oe:s no a e us dantly. . . What has become of the ,JuniOI' Boai'd Paul Becker Sheldon Jenkins John Lewis John Phillips Robet·t Schulberg James Twining course understand and appreciate good IRC? Can it's decline be attributed music? This is but a one yeal· course-are to the fact that the Administration does not approve of radical SophomOie Board Alexander Arony, Armand Fiegenbaum, John Gt ow, Samuel Portnoy, Jonathan Peat son Business Staf:f Robert Eisner Jack Rabinowitz, Donald Haigh, Laska1· Schwartz, Arthur Davis, Andy Kay, Justin Perlstein, Sian ley Greenstein, M y1·on lllllls. Issue Ellitot· ............ _ .......... John Lewis Fdday, March 17, 1939 WElCOME men who have taken the couese to be pre- cluded from listening to the records? Why must a student listen to certain specified records in the formal atmosphere of the classroom three hours a week instead of be- ing allowed to enjoy the rec()t~ds he prefers in a more informal atmosphere at a time when he is in a receptive mol!ld? Engineers have afternoon laboratories,. so are auto- matically excluded from this class. Must they forego the pleasure of hearing this music? speal{ers? The Concord)' Ca-rouse last Sat- urday evening was a social success, but a financial failure. The Psi· Us arrived late and kindly con-· descended to finish the keg. . ... Jack Malone divulged his middle name to a group of imbibers. at rony's the other night. His family named him Meerschaum, because he was always having pipe dreams. He stems from an old line. Prof. Langsam knows a girl whose linguisti-c scope embraces twelve languages, but who can't say no in any oi' them .. , . Twenty- two fair Skidmore lassies started by bus for the WGY studios Mon- · d3y afternoon to give a short wave -broadcast. Their vehicle ran into a ditch on the way down and the l)oor girls were forced to \thumb\ theit· way. The display of shapely calfs apparently intrigued the driv- The Concordiensis, in behalf of Union Col- lege, extends a warm weicome to its weekend guests. We sincerely hope that your short visit to our campus will be both happy and eventful, but above all we hope that the col- lege will create a favorab\.e and lasting im- pressi<m upon all of you. We earnestly urge that you give this whole matter your further consideration, Dr. Tid marsh I The 1·est of the r€C<lrds belong in the library, too. Every n<>w and then there comes a high point in the ups and downs of normal college life. The ordinary grind of hour exams, term papers, and lectures which constitute the ])'1\l:suit of knowledge is interrupted in ord€1' that the fatigued students may relax. This weekend is dedicated by unanimous agreement to that end. So dine with us. Wine with us. Walk with u::;. Talk \Vith u::>. Hide with us. Abide with us. Don't walk out with fraternity broth et·s. Recall not too avidly ad vices of mothet·s. Accept with good graces our wel- come to y'<twl. And ~·ou, my dear Betty, are most 1velcome of all. ON lHE RECORD The plan under which students will be al- lowed to borrow classical records from the college library is scheduled to go into effect today. Stndents will, upon the payment of a nonunal rental fee, be able to borrow rec- ords ft·om 21 albums given to Union by the Carn €g;ie Foundation. 'To popularize the use of these records, might we suggest that a soundproof room be constructed in the library, and a phono- graph installed therein. Such an arrange- ment v;ould permit students who do not possess phonog-raph facilities to enjoy these recordings. The only disconcerting feature of this whole record-lending plan is the fact that whereas the Carnegie Foundation gave ap- prox:ilnately 120 albums of records to Union, the Iibrarr is to be allowed to distribute but 21. Vf e have been told by musical author- ities that many of the records which were given to the library for distribution were the type in which there is little appeal to the aver2g;e listener. Apparently the chief .objection to the pro- posal to put all the Carnegie records in th.e library has come from Dr. Tidmarsh, who is now in charge of them. He has mentioned as his objections to the plan the fs.ct that these er of a large truck because he· OUR COLLEGIATE Co . NT. El>. APORARIES picked them up and brought them lVI to the •tudio, a little late but never- In a mass meeting held recently at theless in time to make the broad- cast .... While we are on the sub- Swarthmore, the men of that institution ject, the Skidmore Secretarial Club registered a unanimous disapproval of the Cruise Dance was better, we are told, than the average run. Dart- . old custom of sending corsag:es to the girl mouth, as usual, came in like a lion friend. The meeting was prompted by an .md out ii!{e a lamp. · . · Ben Rath- bun, who seems to be everywhere expose of the established \corsag-e racket,\ at once. \'' s among those who so called, which has sprung up since the once graced them with his presence. He's 1 unning Fred Wyatt a close thoughtful custom has degenerated into a second as \good-will\ ambassador. social necessity. We would like to know the This past week-end, Vel'l'llOllt University names of the two Union men who wet·c arraigned the other night as spon::;ored the third annual \Sugar Party\. d~ngC'rous radicals for driving down The affair, begun for purposes of student Btate Street, throwing Christian Jcience literature, entitled \ClU'ist aid, features the typical V eemont products Js Coming\ out of the car and of the present season, maple syrup and and yelling, \Bw1d meeting to- night.\ sugar. At its present stage Qf development, ~~~~~~ap;;~;;;;;;;;;;jj;;;;;;;;;;iijli this annual event needs the efficient cooper-· !:;::l:}i'!:=-}11 g: ation of at least ten distinct committees, in· ~;;;!!,-;;:~=:! _ eluding a group in charge of gathering- the syrup, one for serving it, and a snow com-. mittee, no less. Starting 'I'OllA 1\! Shirley 'l't• m pie in .. Til 1-: l.ITTL.E I'Ul:>/('ESS\ A.s,ot•iu.t~ Feattlre •SE('HE'l' H.ERVICE OJo' THE AIR' CULLS F;-tOM THE PRESS -=-r~,~~~~u-~~-~lt~:~~~-~~~lct~a~e~ga~I~l,~J~o~ln~t ~L~it~el~ We vaguely remember a speech made by Hitler. lr shortly before the Munich pact that claimed after the Sudeten question was settled. Germany would make no more territorial claims on Europe. We re- member that Hitler appeared in the role of a Ger- man patriot who wished t{) encorn]>-ass in his benevo- lent and munificent lap all of the German people. We know today, however, that tbe black swastika flies over a land that never· belong-ed to the German Reich and the· right of self determination which Hitler has claimed for his own ha.s tacitly and con- veniently been ignored. Hitler's legion are now occupying Prague and the ruml:fle of cannons through the streets tells the wo~rld that Germany is marC>hing ea.st. Hitler does bow, however, before his stately ideals and he promises the Czechs an \autonom<Jus devel- opment of their national life appropriate to their s-peCial character.\ It sounds fair and liberal bu.t that \autonomous development\ wm be sub-ject to Hitler's interpreta- tion and application, just as in the old Austro-Hun- garian empire the amount Qof tether given the Slavi-c peoples was subject to the w.hirn of the Hapsburgs. Despite the iron will Hitler has shown in pushing Germany's eastward exp·ansion and his constant use . of expedient ph:rases and· promises to gain time, uni- · fied opposition in the Balk•ans against him has not crystallized. The ·small minorities and factions take this time to vent their petty jea:lousies and ambi- tions. That has ever been a characteristic of the Slavic temperament. What the conquest will cost to humanity in suffer- ing and persecution can never be balanced by the advantage of economic unity of the region, inasmuch as the emphasis is and -by nece-ssity must be on the military. CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY. Inc .. 1858 Hamburg St. PHONE 2·0916 DENTISTRY The field nf dentistry today offers to C'Oileeg students an attractive ca- reer. It provirles a worthy lntel- Jeotual challenge, a life of profes- sional eervioe with satisfactory in- come, and an opportunity for re- seareh and tear·hing in this division of medical sr·ience and art. The l!niversily of Pennsylvania has prepared moi~e than six thou- Ran!'!. gradua~es ·who are nccupying pomt10ns of Importance in the pro- fession throughout the world. Its course of instruction is of the high- est orde1·. Anyone intetcested in this profes- sion as a life \Vork is invited to. apply for further information to The Dean· of the School of Dentistry Cnlverslty of Pennsylvania 40th & Spruce Streets Philadelphia, Pa. LOUIS WASSERMAN l54 Br()adway 633 State St. Z26 Nett Ter. 204 Union St. ~1 009 Chrisler Ave. 9UALITY MEAT MARKET Phones 4-3364, 4·3365 PHONE 6-3456 FNE sophomores at a New England university had been assigned to report on the residential districts of a southern city, its principal products and the location of its plantations. Hour after hour they thumbed through. book after hook in the library-all to no avail. Then one of them had a happyidea-whynot telephone the city's Mayor? They did-and in a few minutes had all the informa- tion they needed. No matter what the question-in college, in social life, in business- you'll find the teleph()ne is often the quickest, most economical way to get the answer. Boxi1 Ente1 In wh! two-ring mural :E its debl nasium in.g COffi] attention wrest! in~ Ward In thE Bill War ed thin~ out lhe even.ingf neutra:l. Al Or kayoed Delta. !OUnd W floored : Referee fight. Paul knocked Oldgym was an start of .Semenof when h1 g-le pur about U and r01 credited knockou The d 125-135 e1·see, L: Reynold fought evening. men ex' eee fore ond roc force tl round l was for· In ti: bout, A Pi, was of too r. Charles warned in the 1 ejected the thil The 1 ney occ Neutral shook Dave C three s h!s opp was ou· eree c Ha.rkne forty s1 The Nate P an eas· Psi Up cal kn' :part of In th Ken I. Ed Ga tr.e SJ n1arath forth a attack> Lasher receivi1 .PHO 206 - c: F

. __j THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1939 Page Three Boxing-Wrestling Eli.m:ination Bouts SPORT MART Bolley, Radio Sports Com·mentator, Entertain :Big Crowd of Students Hudson~- Tanner ;. Chosen As Blo(k 'U' Day Speaker In what could be described as a$ Leo Bolley, well\known radio$ -· --~- · ·---- two rl ·ng cr'r'cus the 1939 t'ntra G sports commentator, will be th.e I stat1'on and· wor·ked hi'\ wa\ up to - • · - stomach, and agen won by a tech- A few thanks are due Art Lawrence for his efforts as freshman. first Block \U\ Day speakei.',. 1t prod.uct·l'on nlana\=J· 111 · \ 1932. ' Soon mural Boxing Tournament made nical knockout. ·b k tb 1 d · h 1 T h f h d'd 't have \~ . d b . h AI . G as e a .J ceach· unng t ~ a~t ~eason. · rue, t e res· men. 1 n . was announced today by William following J-ack Shannon then pro- Its e ut m t e 'umm ym- Wrestling Results such a successful season, wmnm_g only one game. But followmg the frrst T Thomas '39 chairman of the d' t f \'FB'L b u ht nasium Tuesday evening. Provid- t 1 th I' . f . t Th too · · • ' g-ram tree or o '' , ro g ing competition for the spectators' In what turiled out to be the wo ·asses e story of the year mgs 18 one 0 rmpl ovemen · en, '. Block \U\ Day Committee. B 11 t WFBL as an announcer attention were seven simultaneous 'longest wrestling match of the eve- Art had a crippled: team after mid-years with only seven members le~t· In the WFBL, Syzacuse radio o ey o . ·. . . out of twelve. We understand Art -never· coached a basketbaH team -until stau·on Radl'o News for last After a. shot t time at the Syra_- wrestling matches. ning, Bernard O'Neill, Phi Sigma ' t t B 11 h dl d all Kappa, was successful in pinning. this year·, either. month Bolley is mentioned as an cuse s a 100 ' ' 0 ey an. e · V '\ardwell Orton Santee wm· • * ,, \ \ t t 'd' t 't' nd an the sports work and conceived the •v. ' ' his elusive opponent, Morris Duel, ou s an mg. spar s cn -IC, a · · · b d t T d In the leather pusher division Kappa Nu. In the only other 125- An orchid to Hal W-ittner fo1 his top notch refereeing of the \grunt \outsta;nding critic of Central New rdea. of ~n evemng 1 roa cas · e Bill Wardwell, Delta Upsilon, start- ''35 d b d \ b . . th . I 'd t 11 h . York football.\ Husr~g l;Jaugurated . the program ~ poun out, Jesse Sherman, an .groan . outs now in sesston m e gymnasium. nCI en a Y ere s and 1 ts nse was rap rd. It has re- ed things moving when he eked Delta Upsi.Jon, was given a vic- something =any don't know-Hal held a license as wrestling referee in Att~nd(>od Nia.gar1L U. mained a top-notch commercial out the only decision bout of the tory by Referee Hal Wittner when the New Yor-k Bering Commission fo1 three years ... during his mem- He was a member of the var- for nearly 1,000 consecutive broad- evening, by beating Merle Fogg, a. he pinned CUff Bowdish, Phi bezship he refereed bouts in which ten WO!ld's champions in the heavy sity baseball, basketball, and foot- cast~. neutra:l. ·Gamma Delta, in five minutes and· and light heavyweight divisions were featured ... they were Ed Don ball teams at Elmira Free Acad- Al Orton, Chi Psi, technically 30 seconds. Once Sherman obtain-: George, Gus Sonnenberg, Henry DiGiane, John Kilonis, Ray Carpenter, emy. From the Academy he went 'kayoed Isidore Haft, Phi Sigma ed the unbreakable grip upon his: Pink Gardner, \Cleat\ Hoffman, and Waino Katonan · .. Hal worked a to Niagat-a Univer·sity where, as a Delta_ Or.ton opened the third' opponent the match was brought five city circuit which included Albany, Schenectady, Elmi1 a, Bingham- freshman, he won a stal'iing berth 1ound with a series of blows which to a per,fect standstill. . ton, and Utica ... he finally stopped at .the request of Frank Parker on the varsity, s·ince there was no ·floored Haft for the fourth time. Avery Beer, South College fresh- Day, then president of the college ... Hal was also considered one of· freshman ruling at the University Referee Ed Fitz then stopped the man, put down his feHow class- the best basketball referE:>es in New Y01k State a while back. at that time. He completed four fight. man, Charles Walder, Psi Upsilon. . * \ • * ,, years with the varsity eleven and Paul Santee, Phi Delta Theta, Donald Henderson, Chi Psi, took BES'l' B01JT OF THE WEEK-The Santee-Semenoff slUcg fest . . . received a letter for each year's knocked out Louis Semenoff of four minutes and five seconds to' Best because of Semenoff s first round showing ... Best because of the service. He graduated in 1927 with Oldgym Ha:ll. In the first round it down Burton Payne. Immediately second HJUnd Santee slams ... WORST BOUT OF THE WEEK-The a bachelor of science degree. was an even battle, but at the followi~g this ~vent, Hudson Tan- Gagen-Lasher track 1 ace ... The boxing this year should be especially Following his graduation from start of the second, Santee gave ner pmned his OJ?ponent, !ohn, interesting as all classe~ but two are undefended ... The BothweH-Mc- Niagara, he played and coached ,Semenoff a preview of the future S~nn, t.he Delta Upsilon captain of; ca 1 .thy heavyweight bout should be an eyeful ... Jake Amazon and Jim professional football in Rochester, when he floored him with a sin- t e Skr Team. . . . : Bothwell won't be meeting this year as the laitter put on weight and Buffalo, and Ottawa. A:fter a few g-le punch. The knockout came Howard Lawrence, Pht S1g:na · entered the heavyweight class ... in fact, Jake isn't fighting this year years of this activity he returned about ten seconds before the sec- Kappa, fought a tough battle wrt~ . , . W-hy-? •.. No· one entered his class. . . . to Elmira in 1931 and was a solo- and mund bell, so Santee was the much favored Boyd Golder, Pht, A suggestion to the intramural department. \\'hy couldn't soccer be ist over Station WESG. He soon credited with only a technical Gamma Delta, In the final match,' added next fall as an intramural activity. There are plenty O·f fellows became an announcer with this knockout. John Walbridge, Delta Phi, de-, who are in·terested and if enough tmn out it should help a lot in widen- Lever-see Triumphs feated John Royce, Phi Delta ing our prog-ram even further. · .. The defending champion of the 125-135 pound class, Beecher Lev· ersee, Lambda Chi Alpha, and Ken Reynolds, the Kappa Alpha terror- fought the closest match of the evening. In the first round both men ex:ecuted knockdowns. Lever- E ee forced the fighting in the sec- ond round. Leversee continued to force the fight through the third round until the Kap's only entry was forced to leave the ring. In the only other lightweight bout, Andrew Reilly, Beta Theta Pi, was wiven the match because of too many fouls by his opponent, Charles Volz. Ed Fitz, referee, warned Volz twice for punching Theta. • * * Roxlng Summ>Hios: There's a new feud on in the gymnasium between Joe Lubansky and Wardwell, decbion over I•'ogg (3); Dave Yunich ... the first day the two were out for ·baseball Dave hit Ortm1, technical lmol'knut over Haft· Joe -in lhe leg with a .batted ball and sent him down to the training (3); Santee, technical lmo<'lwut over - :-;emenotT (2) ; Leversee, technical room for treatment ... the next day Joe made up for it by h-itting Dave kuol'!wul uv.et· Iteynol<ls t3) ; Retlly, with a pitched ball ... since then they haven't missed a day without •led::;iou o;·er Volz, disqualifi<:d 13); · hitting one another in the batting cage either with batted or pitched Harkne::;s, kllDl'kout over Clo\\ e ( 1): Paul, teehniral knockout over .Marl<s. balls .. _ Dave's one up at present but Joe's hot on his trail. , . , ( 1); Gagen, tef'hnical knol'kout over !,asher [2). Wrrstling Summaries: O'~eill thre\\ Duel in 5:18; Sher- man pinue{l Bowdish in 5:30; Beer Lnrew \Valder in ·1 :~9; Hemlerson threw l'aynt in 4: 0~; 'l'anner threw Senn in 1 :H; La\\r.ence threw Golder in 5:45; Walbridge Lhrew Rny<'e in 3:H. ---01---- lntramurals * * * * Dr. John :March, familiarly known to· the students as \Johnny was quite an athlete in hi;; younger days at Lafayette University ... He played .tennis, was a backfield man on his class football team, and also 1 played a little baseball ... He thinks today's players are sissies with their helmets and shoulder pads . . , Also, he misses the old piling up rule when he played which permitted all the members of both teams to load themselves on top of the poor pigskin toter until the referee was sure he was down ... Incidentally, Johnny never misses a Forest Hills Championship Tennis Match if he can help it .... in the back of the neck, and then Boxing Schedule ejected him from the ring after * * * * The suggestions by ex-sports editor Jerome Smith are good but we'll the third offense. Monday, March 20, at 7:30 p. The first knockout of the tour- 135-145 lb. class-Santee, 139 ney occurred when Bill Harkness, 01ton, 136. Neutral, walked into the ring, 145-155 lb. class-Gagen, 143 shook har:ds with his opponent, Harkness, 154. m.: VS- vs. speak of that later .. , oh, by the way, our room is up ... see you next Friday •.. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Qualify Service Safisfacti 011\ 598 B'way- For Better Values DALlEY'S 414 State St. • Featuring GOOD FOOD AND DRINKS \All the j,est on tap\ • BOOTH ancl COUNTER SERVICE Dave Clowe Delta Upsilon, and in 155-165 lb. class-Davis, 164 three successive attacks knocked Mauriello, 163V..; Killian, 162¥.2 vs. vs. Clark Witbeck Co~ We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests h!s opponent to the canvas. Clowe Dingman, 159 . was out of the ring when the ref- eree counted him out. It took Wrestling Harkness cnly one minute and UD to 125 lbs.-Mead, 124¥.2 vs. forty seconds to finish the fight. Noo-nan, 123. Paul Is Easy Victor 125-135 lbs. class - Delchamps, The 115-155 class title defender, 134 ~1< vs. Dwyer, 126 ; Phillips, 13 4 vs. Thomas, 134¥, ; Santoro, 142, vs. Nate Paul, Phi Sigma Delta, scored B 1 M k :Jollins, 1431,2. an easy victory over ea ar s, 145-158 lb. class-Henderson, 156 Psi Upsilon. Paul received techni- vs. Tanner, 147; Lawrence, 148 vs. cal knoclwut credit in the latter Walbridge, 152. QUALITY HARDWARE SINCE 1870 416.418 State St. Phones 4-416 I - 4-4162 ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES MAZDA LAMPS STAPLES WAX part of the first 1 ound. In the final bout of the evening, Heavyweight class-Shaw, 19'7, ~~~===~===~=~~====~=~~===~===~~~ Ken Lasher, Delta Upsilon, and VG. Jones, 190; Sherman, 197 vs. · = Ed Gagen, Psi Upsilon, provided Jlllson, 196 1 .1!; Goldblatt, 191 vs. tte spectators with a walking. Hatch, 230; Kearns. 187 vs. Guerry, marathon. Gagen, however, burst 1£0. forth at intervals with a few short All ccntestants are requested to attacks. In the ~econd round, repot·t at the timer's bench in the Lasher finally became tired after north end of the gymnasium at receiving two stiff punches to the 7:30 p. m. sharp. ~~~~~~ . PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F BURNS ~LECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. • Going Formal? These Are the J. S. HANDELMAN QUALITY GROCERIES and MEATS Fresh Fruits & Vegetables Daily Fresh Butter and Eggs FREE DELIVERY Phone 6-6016 920 State St. Correct Accessories -Arrow Dress Shir+s- Pieated bosom, collar attached ....... $3.00 -Plain bosom, neckband style .................. $2.50 -Formal Collars by Arrow ..... , ................. 35c -Black and White Bow Ties . . . . . . . . .... 75c and $1.00 -~Studs and Links in sets ...................... SOc up -Black Silk Hose .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .SOc and $1.00 -Boutonnieres, white and colors .................. 50c -Knox black or navy Homburg .................. $5;00 Foot-loose and Fancy Free- \'JOR sheer exhilaration and well-being you'll delight in J.' Arrow's new formal attire. Born. with a royal touch the ARROW LIDO dress shirt is a thing of beauty, carefully tailored and authentically styled in tile new narrower bosom. :Even suspender loops and a trouser tab are provided to keep the shirt well behaved and always in place. If you wear tails or single breasted dinner coat-LIDO is your shirt. $3 up. Tile formal Arrow white ties are superb-self knotted, yet launderable. The butterfly type is the one preferred by most men. $1. Arrow wing collars HOST, PROM and LIDO, are best sellers. 35c. ARJ~OW DRES.S SHIRTS JAMES REST AURA NT 426 State St. ~~*' ..,.,.v-..,.v.V • By The Dawn's Early lightl Do's and Dont's for Nighf Owls DO wear a wbite tie with tails-black with tux, Buy tbe the square end butterfly type. Amww Dress Ties • $1. 110 wear a stiff bosom shirt and wi11g collar with tails or single breasted tux. Arrow Ki•·k and Lido are the world's best behaved dress shirts. In birdseye pique or plain bosom they're tops in quality and value at $3. DON'T wear n turn down collar with tails ; with double- breasted tux it's ()kay. Arrow Shot·elzam has tile collar at- tached-a pleated bosom- and oh, how comfortable. ARRow D~ess S!Jirts . $3 • GO Arrow and you go authentic. lf it llas11't all Arrow label it is11't all Arrow. NUSBAUM'S 447-451 STATE S7REET

Page Four Zahl Describes Primitive Humor Returned Explorer Tells Of Akawai Indian Jol<es In Chapel Address Dr. Paul A, Zahl, re:;earcl! a~so­ ciate of the Hasltins Lab<n·atory who has t'<'cently returned f1:om an expedition to South America, ·de- scribed the sense of humot· pOS\ .sessed by the South American In- dians in his morning chapel speech yeste1·day. The Indians with whom he had his as,;ociations. were of the Alm- wai tribe, who live about 3[)0 miles inland from the northeast shoulder of the continent. Dr. Zahl said that t hPil' sense of hunl<Jr was c:;sentially slapsticl,, that it wa\ non-intellectual and· non-subtl<'. Anything that moves is Iunny to them. although it may s<'l'l'll tragic to us. The natives about whom he told were used to cany the expeditions equipment while they wet·e going overland. He related ~evet·al ind- den.b to illustt ate his point. In ont> case. the party was et·ecting th<' pules for their ~heitl'r when one uf the beams fell on a nativte's head. He was \knot'lled out\ bv the blow, and. thP re~t of thl' Indian\ Pnjoy- ed a hood laugh. And when the man t·c•covered, he, too, Ia ughed loudly at the incident. Dt·. Zahl concluded by stating that he could verify ninety per- cent of what he had· 'said, and that hP claimed the right. as any tt·av- eler, to insel't \the usual t·en pei'- CPllt.\ --- 0-- Notices The Amet·ican Red Cro\s is plan- ning to conduct a Seniot· Instructor Course in Red Cross Life Saving at the local Y. W. C. A. Clas~es will be hPld on :\farch 20. 21, 23. 27, and 28. The cour~c will be led by Cap- tain Frank R. Hoercher, a New Yo! k State examiner. Instruction~ will be given both un land anc water fi ee of charge; however, only senior lifesavel's are eligible to enter. Any qualified students who a1e intete~ted are ·welcome to at- tend. There will bP a placement meet- ing on Tuesday, March 21, at the Phi Gamma Delta house. Mt·. Mills Ten Eycll. president of the Sche- nc>ctauy Savings Bank, will lead a di~cussion on banking. CARLSON'S Paint & Wallpaper PECKIN' with the PENGUINS Tommy Dorsey Victor 26131 CASSEDY PIANO COMPANY 460 State St. N t'al' P1•octor's FREIHOFERS BREAD :-: CAKE :-: ROLLS Daily Delivery Direct to Your Home TEL. 6-4224 & 7 for building health in mind and body. Amsterdam Dairy MILK 2 glasses before retiring Repeat Daily Ph()ne 6-2351 for Dail:y Delivery NOW IN THE CONCORDIENSTS, FRIDAY, MARCH 17, 1939 Music By Her.ber1 0. fox ··Glee Club Concert MOTION II . Three Seniors Compete In Mathematics 'Exam In spite of Cluett's war-torn Mr. Rubinstein played the Scriabin (Continued from Page 1) 1,!;;;==============;!.1 Thl'ee sen·. 1 01 , 8 Wl'll!'am Thoma\ 'piano and a bad case of ptomaine Nocturne .for tile Left Hand. This Chorus. HI, \Rhapsodie for Piano · ' · · · ''·poisoning, Attur Rubinstein's Ci-vic ·was the only time du1·ing the eve- On the podium at Proctor's, Wil-liam Muirhead, and· F·rank Sai- Nusic Association concert last ning that he was able to transend ~!hor:~~i~ b~ndCli~rom· r~ DNeemwamreasnt .• At·mstt·ong Louis is busily riding deJ.l, competed in the William Low-. 'Tue~day evening was one of the the limitations ]arced ·on him by: high, higher, highest on his trum- ell Rutman Ma t1le-matical Compte- best we have evei' heard. As a per-. the ancient piano provided by the' IV, \Down ·by the O!'d Bayou,.\ by pet for patron~ of vaudevHle and hensive Test on March 4. Thi·s com- ;;on he ~~ gracious and modest;. Civic Music Association. Here his ·David Bennett; \Mary Had a Little it~ allied arts. Mr. Armstrong, who petitive te~t is given each year: . . b' , · Lamb,\ ·by Howard Hughes; and . 11 d . tl ugh S tch 1 d t'h . 1 th M th . as a ptatust he com mes a nat-. tone was liquid and pure, giving \The Mus!' cal T. rust,\ by Cloltey, IS ca · e · qua'm Y eno -- a· e · un er · e auspice~ 0 · e a e-. u12l emotional fervot· with musi-· us a glimpse of what he could mouth 01· Satch'mo',. is b1'Hed as ma.tt'cal • o~oc1'at·1'on of Amel'ica. · Union College Glee Club v· Sel·ec- =~ cianship, style, and l'al·e interpre- · have done had his sponsors bene · · · ' \The Trumpel King of Swing\ and The exam, which is in it~ second tions by double quartet. VI, \Carna- tive a·bility. more generous. the \Toscan•ini of Swing.\ He year, last~ six hours and covers val,\ by Felix Four,drain\; \Noc- The most unusua.J part of his pro- The pro g .ram beg an with. comes by this titles honesty, too, !ou·r :y·ear~ of college mathematics gram was a piano transcription of. Franck's Prelude ~ Choral and turne,\ ·by Noble Cain; \Mists by for wasn'.t he t·ecently canonized Ea.ch college is allowed a team of Stravinsky's baUet suite, Petrous- Fugue and Beethoven's Sonata in. Ottorino Respighi; \My Johann,\ ·bJ· \Life\ magazine? He was. three men, or student~ may enter chl•a. This work pl'esents all but E Flat Major. 'In both of t::hese. by Edward Grieg; and \Devotion The show of which he is the individually. This is lhe first year by Richard St~auss, 'Skidmore Col- unconque!able technical snarls and· pieces Rubinstein was in the ptoc- most p1·ominent part offers a par- that Union has competed in ·the lege Chorus. VII, \Dusk by A. test. demands a player who can charge, ess of warming up and gave ·only, GrE:tchaninoff·, \Unfold Ye 'Par- cel of very fine singing by a Midge· the music with all of the drama: a hint of the artistry Which was \Villiams, some comedy by a Nic- The prize for the highest individ- ta'ls,\ by Charles Gounod, ·cambin- CJdemus, and some dancing by a ual rating in this exam is a $1,000· md fiery poetry of the original to follow. The last group of De\ ·ed glee clubs. orchestral score. This is an order bussy and Liszt and the encore, gl oup of anunymou~ pet·sons. All ~cholanhip to Hatvard University. ,Ills i~ vet y good, but pales in Eac·h man of the fit•st, se.cond·, and impossible to fill except by the Fire Dance by De Falla., were all ~omp:Hisun to !.\T1·. Armstrong's third highe~t ranlting tea·ms wiJ.l most exact virtuoso. played with the cirtuosity and toll id wooing, vocal and instru- receive te~pecti\'ely $50, $30 and As an encOle to his flrst group keenness displayed in Petrouscbka. .nental, of the Muses. $20. The mathematics department Blondie Ml'ets th!\ Boos is th' of the fi.rst tht:ee winning teams pictU!P. Hmmmmm. will nceive $500, $300, and $200. • • • Prison \\.r'ithout Bars the State next Tuesday. ('AL.t~NDAH. ~aturda:y 10:00 a. m.- Daily Assembly- Andrew D. Kay, '42. 8:00 p. n1. Skidmore-Union Joint Concert, Memorial Chapel. Dancing to Jack Lan- ny's Orchestt·a in gymnasium following. Stmda;~· 11:00 a. m. -·Sunday Service. Preacher, Very Reverend Ed- wat d R. Welles, Dean, All Saints' Cathedral, Memorial Chapel. 3:00 p. m. Empire State Town Meeting of the Air, Old ChapeL 4:00 p. m.- ·Organ Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmat·sh, Memol'ial Chapel. Monday FREE Tuesday to,oo a. m.---Dr. John M. Swann, Executive Secretary, New Yorlt State Society for the Control of Cancer, Memorial Chapel. 2:30-4:30 p. m.-Record Concert, Memorial Chapel. !testa urant-Tal' Itoom • D ellcatessen GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR SUITS GLEANED • PRESSED TWO SUITS Cleaned and Pressed Br?~: 93c Call for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ G&G CLEANERS DYERS 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 Fifty dollal'\ wHl be given each ol the five high contestants. ----0------ Jackson, '39, in Chapel Talk WeanLsliay, ])larch 15 · Spealting in daily assembly today, Edwin J. Jackson, '39, reviewed the history and activities o'f the Radio Club, along with the development of short wave I•adiu by amateur op- et·ator~. Jackson enumetated the sel·v- ices pet formed by such a group as the Radio Club in hi~ short ad- dresSc. He cited actual instances where amateurs have saved life and property by picking up dis- tress signals and send·ing out news to deva~tated areas. In one case, he told how a \ham as the ama- teurs call themselves, was instru- · mental in sending aid to the Pit- cairn Islanders when they were faced with a grave food shortage. Dress Shirfs Expertly Done AMERICAN A-1 LAUNDRY Ph. ·1-3166 1030 Bat•I•ett St. C.S.MOODY OPTOMETRIST 115 B'wav Tel. 6-5747 Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted Three Doors from State St. FILL UP ON GAS Before 1he Dance SCOTTY'S SUPER-SERVICE GAS - OIL - LUBRICATION Radios Batteries Tires Accessories Cor. NOTT TERRACE ctnd LIBERTY For an atmosphere to inspire the BEST OF CREATIVE KNOWLEDGE visit the COLLEGE INN Cor. CARRIE ST. & VAN VRANKEN AVE. For the FRATERNITY HOUSE- UNION COLLEGE BOOK MATCHES For the WEEKEND DATE- UNION COLLEGE JEWELRY-FELT GOODS exclusive at the COLLEGE BOOKSTORE DOUW E BEEKMAN Gasoline - Brake Service U. S. Tires - Motor Tune-up Exides - Lubrication Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 601 UNION ST. Open Until II P. M. For Good Sport and Fun Visit the PALACE Roller SkatinCJ Rink 138 ERIE BOULEVARD Bring your own skates or rent a pair Before the Dance • The Union-Skidmore Concert bring your date to • The Dance HALE HOUSE The • And Then HOME OF UNION MEN The VAN CURLER UNION COLORS Up·to·dH~·ntJ'nute shops are femur· ing the \\\Varsity Pipes- in chip· proof, crack .. proof colors of JOllr, .. uhool I These colors. in permanent plastks. are bonded around a bowl' of genuine Italian briar, properly aged to give perfect, bitcless smok· ing joy. l-lere•s a real campus classic - a sleek. smooth-smoking 'beauty you '11 be p10ud 10 own. See it - TAP R 0 O·M ,iiiiiiiiiii.f __ .!f..~!!.!,~!_!_~~~~~:_ ___ _;__ioday at your fa•·orile dealer! I SlisiJJl1 Jtss JIJall afluaJ ,;.-, ~~~.:::::.::::::::~.ONE DOLLAR lnst Q,wi· An Z.511 Vol. LJI New: Com: Fresl Oat, Chosen Formal In Neal Commi man Da were an: chairmer Armand Council The nev yesterda sider pls The C( tickets Saturdaj charge will be 1 They ca from a1 committ head ·of The d: 1 in the decorate along tl order to in forma' inform a A da1 augurat nn'lcqua nectady. Plans t bus fro1 are sec functior Upr Altho' fer fleE perc less providii vitaticn issued s men, This attempt class g tion fo1 idea gr class s gated l The nounce' Andre VI bowski, lick, J, and Delphi! jamin Killian Anders 1nusic, Ed war' ski; ii and R( Sears 1 James By For accept tude t: of the of.A:DJ have dents see mil men ~ books, cerpts in th right, been: great right, sent, A mer and t staid dle-ag Wh it seE canvt tune'~ cider! men them with your 1 ea.so bank ers, I sible, bette cond: ciam

rt est, by ttle tey, lec- hy 11 A. bin- p Instructor's Q,uiz Papers Are Stolen Z.-511 Vol. LXII., No. 43 • Eighty Records Borrowed From Library l PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1939 =====· =-~==========~========~======~================= Newly.Appoi~ted 'Combined Union and Skidmore Glee Clubs Present Com:m·tttees D1scuss · • • • • Vital Statistics At 9:20 last evening, March 20, a daughter was born in the Ellis Hospital to Mr. and Mrs. Frederic A. Wyatt. The child weighed six pounds and ten ounces, and was named Wendy Cutler. Carl Van Doren Speaks T o·night On Li.fe of Franklin Freshman Dance Varzed Concert Saturday Nzght zn Memo:rzal Chapel Spencer Lecturer 'Literary Guild\ Founder Taught at Columbia and University of Illinois Date Service Started Chosen Guests to Receive Formal Dance Invitations In Near Future Committees for the All - Fresh- man Dance to be held April' 22 Wel'e announced last night by Co- chairmen WiJ.Iiam Coates and Armand Feigenbaum and Student Council P1•esident David Yunich. The newly appointed groups met yesterday in Silliman HaU to con- sider plans for the affair. The committees set the price of tickets at 75 cents. At noon on Saturday, April 15, however, the charge will go up to $1. The1 e will be no tickets s0ld at the door. They can be procured in advance from any member of the dance committee, or from the freshman head 'Of each fraternity house When Mr. Wyatt was reached fur a message, at the home of Dr. Clowe, the baby's grand.fa- ther, his laconic message· was: \I am very much pleased, to say the least.\ He also went on to say thnt it was the first girl to be born in the Wyatt family in three generations. Mrs. Wyatt was reported to be resting nicely. Mr. Wyatt is Assistant Secre- tary of the coHege, coach of the freshman lacrosse team, and is in charge of the Placement Bureau. Cancer Is Curabl·e. Dr. Swann Cla;ims Speaks for Cancer Control Society and Lists Three Effective Remedies Used Carl Van Doren, editor, author and critic, will speak tonight in Old Chapel at 8 o'clock on \Ben- jamin ·Franklin.\ The lecture will be sponsored by the Ichabod Spen- cer Foundation of Union College. Mr. Van Dot·en will also talk in daily assembly tomorrow morning on a subject which has not as yet been announced. Dr. Van Doren's latest literary accomplishment is an 845 page bi- ography of Benjamin Franklin which, since its publication last year, still remains a best n<>n-fic- tion seller in the United States. The book pictures Franklin from his beginning as a journalist at 16 to his retirement from public af- fairs at 82, during which there was no break in activity. Supplements Autobiography The dance will be held from 9 to 1 in the gymnasium, which will be decomted. Furniture will be spread along the sides of the building in order to provide a comfortable and informal atmosphere. Dress will be informal. · Approximately 60 women of the custom at Glee Club concerts of Skidmore College Chorus cooper- having only vocal numbers. ated with the Union Glee Club in a In the absence of D>r. Elmer Tid- joint concert Saturday evening in marsh, who was giving an organ the Memorial Chapel. The audience recital in Poughkeepsie, the Union consisted not only of members <>f singers were led by Philip Duch- the college family, but also <>f scherer, and John Mitchell, senior townspeopte and guests of students. co-leaders of the Glee Club. The were rehearsed. . The various couples were paired off later ac- cording to a guest list which had been previously drawn up, The ladies were escorted to the Presi- dent's home, where they made necessary preparations for the eve- ning. Dinner dates had been ar- ranged at most of the fraternity houses for fraternity men and their guests. \Caneer is definitely curable,\ said Dr. John M. Swann, speaking in behalf of the Amerkan Society for the Control of Cancer in c.hapel today. Dr. Swann stated that there are at present three method.s which have proved effective for curing the disease. The first is surgical oper- ation. The second is x-ray treat- ment, and the third is radium. This volume ·is said to be the first attempt in more than 75 years to bring the whole of Franlt- lin's life, with all the precise de- tails essential to it, into a single narrative large enough to do him justice. The book significantly sup- plements 'Franklin's own \Auto- biography\ which has been con- sistently popular since its birth in the man's own period. A dating service has· been in- augurated to aid freshmen who are unacquainted with girls in Sche- nectady, Feigenbaum announced. Plans have been made to run a bus from .Skidmore, whme the girls are securing late leave for the function. Upperclassmen May Attend The concert, scheduled a:\ 8:00 selections by the Skidmore Chorus p. m., lasted approximately two and the two numbers by the com- hours, presenting almost 30 separ- bined groups at the end of the con- ate musical selections, nine given cert were directed by Elmer M. by the Skidmore group, ten by the Hintz, of the Skidmore music fac- Giee Club, two joint numbers, and ulty. four selected numbers by the dou- The Skidmore singers arrived on ble quartet. The featured number the campus about four o'clock Sat- for piano and organ, played by two urday afternoon, and after both members of the Skidmore group, groups held informal warm-up re- was a departure from the previous 1 hearsals, the two joint numbers After the concert, the dance was well-attended in the gym, f<>l' which affair Jack Lanny's band furnished the music. The dance came to a close before 1:00 a. m., and the ma- jority of the Skidmore guests had to retW\n .to Skidmore at that Ume in special busses. Dr. Swann went on to say that the doctor and not the patient should determine which is the proper means of treatment. C'ancer, he said, usually begins as a result of abnormal conditions of the tis- sue. Cancer of the .skin, for exam- ple, is eight times as .common among sailors as among other classes of people. Salt water, sun, and wind combine to make such unusual demands upon the skin tis- sue that the disease results. Dr. Van Doren's life has been concerned with literature since his high school days. While a mem- ber of the Hope (Illinois) High School football team in 1901, he se- cretly read poetry. He was also valedictorian of his class. He en- tered the University of Illinois with a four year scholarship. After giv- ing footbali up completely, he de- Although t:.e da:-!ce is primarily fer freshmen, sophomores and up- perclessrr::en wi!l be able to attend providing they recelve formal in- vitaticns. Tlce~e invitations will be issued shortly to certain designated men, Feig.enbaum reported. .-----------.1 . Rights ofT eachers Dr. Knudson Speaker At Sigma Xi Meeting voted all his time to reading and studying. This venture will mark the first attempt in the last ten years of any class group to hold a social func- tion for their own class alone. The idea grew out of the discussion of class solidarity which was insti- gated by Dr. Waldron. The committees which were an- nounced yesterday are: tickets, Andrew Kay, chairman, Ben .Jako- bowski, Robert Lowe, Sherry Hil- lick, John Baas, Angus Morrison and Roy Webster; publicity, Delph is Goldberg; decorations,. Ben- jamin Leland, chairman, Robert Killian, Edward Schulz and George Anderson; dates, Earl Schwallje; music, Msurice Deul, chairman, Edward Koch and Edward ;Koprow- sld; invitations, Kenneth Lasher and Robert Muther; house, Stanley Sears and William Weller; finance, James Riddell. Students Use 80 Records For Week-End Pleasure Ten of the 21 albums of clas- sical music were withd1·awn from the library by the students for use over the week-end, ac- cording to Helmer Webb, col- lege librarian. The ten albums represented about 80 records. Students may obtain any al- bum in the library's possession by going to Mr. Webb as he is the only one allowed to issue them. They are required to sign a card and to pay 25 cents per album. The records may be kept for three days and will be care- fully examined upon. return for any signs of damages. ·Cited at Meeting State College President, Teachers' Union Delegate Discuss Free Speech Whether or not public school teachers should have complete free- dom of speech was discussed from the point of view of the administra- tor and the teacher Sunday after- noon at the Empire State Town Meeting in Old Chap·el. Dr. Burges Johnson acted as chairman in place of Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox. President A. R. Brubacher of State Teachers College in Albany and Dr. Bella V. Dodd, legislative representative of the New Yorlt State Federation of Teachers' Dr. Arthur Knudson, Professor of Biochemistry at the Albany Medical School, will ad<iress the annual initiation meeting of the Union chapter of Sigma Xi, Wed- nesday, March 22. Dr. ·Knudson will speak at 8 p. m. in the Physics Lecture Room on the topic of \Vitamin D, its chemistry, its va- rious forms, and its formation by radiation.\ At the meeting, the 12 newly elected members of the so- ciety will be formally ind.ucted. The purpose of the society in whose behalf he was speaking, Dr. Swann said, is to educate the young people of America so that tbey may prevent the spre•ad of cancer in the future. He stated that there are 60,000 people in the United States today that have had the disease and have been cured. Only those who h·ad cancer at least fi've years ago, and have had no recurrence of the trouble, are included in this count. In Munroe County a spe-cial sur- vey has been carried on, and it has been found that there are 298 per- sons who have been completely cured. \Such results as this,\ Dr. Swann stated, \lead us to hope that in the near future cancer will be- cGme a forgotten problem.\ Prmnlnent Unde1·gradua.te While in college, he edited the literary monthly \Illinois Maga- zine,\ was class poet and president of the senior honorary society. He received his A.B. in 1907. After graduation, he attended graduate school at Columbia University and later spent several months in Europe. It was during this time that he wrote his first book \The Life of Thomas Love Peaco~k.\ In 1911, he received his Ph.D- from Columbia_ Dr. Van Doren taught for a short while after, but then gave it up to devote all his time to free lance writing. He hecame literary editor of \The Nation\ in 1919 and re- ~ain_ed at that post until 1922. He 1s still contributing editor. (Continued on Page 4) Union, agreed that the teachers should have freedom of speech, but Dr. Brubacher insisted on several reservations. Must Accept Demoeracy First Recent Roper 'Fortune' Poll Reveals Conservatism in Union Students Dr. Brubacher claimed that the Who is least responsible?\ These teachers in the American school and about fifty like questions made system should be only those who up the polL have accepted democracy as the Dr. Knudson graduated from the University of Missouri in 1912 and t:eceived his Ph.D. degree from Co- lumbia in 1915. In 1915 he was ap- pointed Associate Professor of Bio- chemistry at the Albany Medic11l Sc:hool and in 1921 he was promoted to the pos·i.tion of :Professor of Bio- chemistry. He is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Chemical Society, the Society of Biological Chemists and the Society for Ex- perimental Biology. Thief Snatches Uncorrected Tests While Unwary Instructor Lunches BY ARMAND FEIGENRAUIVI For a long time, most people have acceptt'd without question the atti- tude that college men represent one of the most radical cross sections of American opinion. These people have been looking on cdlege stu- dents with a suspicious attitude, seeming to expect that the college men are carrying Karl Marx text- books, <>r some mimeographed ex- cerpts from \Mein Kampf\ around in their pockets. Maybe they're right, college students have never been noted for talting life with any great seriousness. But, if they are right, then here at Union we repre- sent, not a crosssection of young American college men with \blood and thunder\ ideas, but, instead, a staid gnmp with an \an.emic\ mid~ dle-aged attitude. Why the sudden outburst? Well, it seems that a young Roper poll canvasser while taking one of \For- tune's\ monthly economic polls, ac- cidentally ran into a few Union men who live off campus. He put them through the usual routine with suc:h questions as: \What in your opinion, represents the major 1 eason for economic depression- bankers, lpdustrlalists, labor lead- ers, politicians, etc.? Who is respon- sible, in the .greater part for the betterment of American business conditions - industrialists, politi- cians; labor leaders, ·bankers, etc.? Although it is not the policy of best form of government, and then, the survey to include college men, he added, they may discuss any the interviewer must have been in su·bject they choose. an empirical mood, and so· he de- Dr. Dodd said that freedom of cided to go into a few of the off- speech and action were linked to- campus fraternity houses and run gether and for teachers the prob- through his questioM. Aftet• meet- !em should be considered from the ing some other off campus men, he point of view of the private life of went back to his regular beat with the instructor and the professional surprise. w<>rk .of the teacher. \Maybe I haven't gotten a croes \A teacher,\ she maintained, section of the' college because I \permitted to speak freely against have contacted so few students,\ he race and religious intolerations is said, \but the attitudes expressed only half free. She must be per- an my questions rep1esent, not any mitted action to point out the un- radical or even liberal ideas, but the American character of such preju- direct, conservative, middle of the dice and permitted to do all in her road point of vlew so characteristic p<>wer to eliminate it from the na- of the middle aged men in Amer- tural scene.\ ica.'' Maybe he's right. The Roper-For- Dr. Brubacher said that \a tune poll is considered one of the teacher may not be a political ban- most accurate in America-it was dit or revolutionist, ready to rob the only eight tenths of one pe'rcent in~ state of its political heritage, . , . accurate in predicting the results of nor may he be a political or social the last presidential election, and or economic libertine denying the its results since that time have validity of all community re- been relatively as successful. straints, demanding for himself If he is right, then there are two completely free self-expression.\ possibilities that are open, One is Both Dr. Dodd and Dr. Brubacher that the present American college· agreed that the public school sys- generation is much steadier than tem should highly emotionalize the any in the past. The other possibil- teaching of democracy, to in- ity is that \maybe we just ain't nor- doctrinate their pupils with the mal here at Union.\ democratic form of government. Dr. Knudson's chief interest and experiments have been in the study of rickets. He has also done some research work in the effect of ex- posure of animals to ultra-high- frequency fields and other work in connection with the formation of vitamin D cathode< rays and ultra- violet radiation. ----0---- Andrew Kay, '42, Pictures Old Boston in Chapel Talk Historical spots in Boston most likely to be seen by the visitor\ was the subject of a talk l>y Andrew D. Kay, '42, in Memori'al 'Chapel Satur- day. Kay told the story of Bosto.n since its inception when William Blackstone founded Charlestown on the land where modern Boston now stand~. In the early days of Boston the Old North ChW\ch from whose bel- frey the lanterns were hung notify- ing Revel.'e, Dawes and Prescott, that the British were ccmung, served as a landmark enabling sea- going vessels to find Boston hal)bor, according to Kay, Beneath the church 11,000 people are buried. Kay explained much of modern Boston an:d that both North and South stations are built on .filled in land created when the harbor front was extended. By JAMES E. TWINING A conniving thief visited Hale House cloakroom, a textbook and John A. McGuire, instructor in So- cial Studies, last Saturday noon relieving the room, the book and the instructor of a set of uncor- rected S. S. 10 quiz papers. The unknown thief made a clean get- away, according to Mr. McGuire, whose keen interest in the return of the papers is not prompted by the desire to know the identity of the culprit, but only by a. desire to do justice to his students whose marks may-or more emphatically -will suffer should the papers re- main hidden. Mr. McGuire explained that he had placed the papers, which con- tained answers (giving the students the benefit of the doubt) to tests given in both sections of his Logic class on Wednesday and Thursday, under a textbook on the hat shelf of the cloakroom in Hale House. After leisurely eating his lunch which he admits took longer thar: usual, he discovered the theft when he returned to take his papers home to correct. A slight investigation made by the it;structor in the vicinity of ~he cnme and an Inquiry of those Ill the lounge at the time revealed nothing in the way of incriminat- . ing evidence or oral testimony per- tinent to the subject. Mr. Mc- Guire doubted that anyone could hav.e walked off with his papers by accident. The identity of the person who made away with the papers does not interest Mr. McGuire. While he does not care if they are re- turr~ed or not he is leaving every available opportunity for the thief to return them, He made the following statement to his classes after he had inform- ed them, that their papers had been stolen: \If I don't have the pa- pers, I can't grade them. Obviously I don't have them and naturally if I don't get them everyone will get a zero.\ When approached by a \Con- cordiensis\ reporter concerning the \snatch Mr. McGuire explained how he felt about the return of the papers. \If the thief does not ~hoose to return them,\ he said, ''it 1s clearly up to the students to dis- cover who took them from me. They will too, if they are at ali in- terested in getting a mark.\ Mr. McGuire admitted that it v:as possible that he was the vic- tim of a malicious joke. In that case he expected the jokestet· to return the pape1•s to Hale House, the hat-rack and the instructor.

·. Page TWo THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1939 The audience would he mot·e t'eJll'esenta- IN THE ·MAIL · _·.··.L · . ~~ tive of the college community if there were To the EditOt: History of ld_ol Revealed ·.· ·.··~ .. at least several students present. S11ch con- Dear Sir: ' descension on the pa1t of the s-tudents, I am tallt.ing with my little friend lh=========================;;,;;;;;!J h t 't d h · J b f Perthy the other night (apologies. Qlnurnr FOUNDED 1877 \ll Carts a Persa Par:ole Assai\ ~len!ller uf the Associated Collegiate Press and <! istr, but or of the Collegiate Digest. The official newspaper uf the students of Union College. Published Tuesday and Fl'idays tluOll!l\hl· out the cullege. year. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union Coll!'!l\e Cam· pus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4'0133. Pub lieu tion Ol'fice, The Ga2ette l'ress, 334 State \St .. Schenectady, N. Y., \J::elephone 4-4lH Ente~ed at the Schenectauy -P\Osl Office as Secoll~ Cla\s Mall Matter. Subsc!'il)tion price Five cents a copy; $3,00 a year;. delivered a-nywhere in the Unite<!._Sta_t_es_. __ Senior Bo:u·d Lawrence V. Pellettier, .Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief 24 N. S. South CoBege-6-9728 l.\lax L<>n ............•..... BusiNess Manag\'1 Kappa Nu House- 4-7331 C. Ru~o;sell Deyo ............. Managing Editc:Jr Chi Psi Lodge-l-6527 Cluist<Ipher M. Fally ........... Sports Edit<'ll Delta Upsilon House 4-7922 George Loadwicl> l'e;ek .......... News ·Edlt~1r 12'78 Parkwood Blv'd-4-9208 Edwin. A. Fitz, Jr ............. Feature EditQr Lambda Chi Alpha House -4-0531 Jolm l\lalonP . . . . . . . . . . . . Circulation :r.ranager 1091 Kcye.s Ave. -4-6931 ~EPIH:.SENTEO FOR NATIUN.\L AU\/Od-tTISlNli BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y • CHICAGO • BOSTOfl • LOS }.NQitLES ~ SAN FRA.liCISCO Paul Beckel Sheldon Jenkins John Lewis .Junio1· Boa1:d John Phillips Hobert Schulbmg Jarne>< Twining Sophomore Board AlPxandc>r Arony, Armand F'icgenbaum, John G!OW, Samuel Portnoy, Jonathan Pea1~011 Business Staff Robert Eisner Jack Rabinowitz, Donald .Hajgll, Las!(at· Scl1wartz, Arthm Davis, Andy Kay, Ju:stln Perlstein, Stauley Greenstein. ~1;-ron :\!ills. Issue EditBr ................... Jas. E. 'T~ln:ing Tuesday, March 21, 1939 MORE DEAD WOOD? w ose at 1 u e as prevwus Y een one 0 · to G. H.> aN.d the squirt ups and \By GEORGE LOAEWICK PECK tradition of painting the idol was pu~·est indifference, would be appreciated says to me: \Brother it ith eathy The idol which stands behind inaugurated. not onl\ by the speaker, but also by those of to thee that you are dependent on Alumni Gymasium is a most As the image lengthened 'its stay \ me to thpeed up your mental' familiar object to Union stu- on the campus much curiosity us who have constantly urged bettet• student· protheth tho I will thpiel with an. dents. It is a cul'ious 'looking statue .arose as to why the Chinese evcer attendance at such affairs. 'idea.\ consb:ucted of •stone and standing bui!t \such a thing.\ At fi·rst it was I just looks down my nose at seven feet high. AlthOugh many. believed· t? represent ~orne god The lchabod Spencer lecture seTies was :1im and say, \Percival between. layers of paint blur its .outline, it and that 1t w~s worshipped, but .founded, pt·imarily, for the benefit ()f Union you and me, it is buttons and I will is suppos.ed to be a: reproduction of: Dr. Farmha~ m a le~ter _to the .thank you to keep your ideas to a lion holding a cub in its paws. 'colle~e,_ cla·nfied the s1tuatmn 'b_Y students. Our goal will be achieved if, ,.ourself.. 1 f th . . -explammg that such figures were J • • • , The actua age ·o · e 1mage ·JS · . - f f 1 b 'Td through the effectiveness ·Of this advice, we \Dithregardwg your firtht quip, unknown but Union College re- • placed ~nth rant 0 /~ate Yb l'UJ d d . l b . 3ays Perthy, \I will protheed. The ceived it' in 1860 through an aLum-: mgs, an e supers 1t10~s · ~ ~eve can avoid a Fri ay editona . emoanmg an-. prom committee, ath you probably . h -r. • J M w F\ ·m .. that they drove away eVIl sptnts. . . . . .nus, t e Rev ..... x. . . . ar - . . . . . other of the many opportunities v.r hich has are a wale, lth compothed ?f a ham who graduated with the class of~' . The ·!dol stayed on Its o~Jgma! 't' \l(ell place on our campus unnoticed by the gJ:oup o; pepular g~yth. Right? 1856. Mr. J,.armharn was a. -mis-:•sJte only seven years when It was ·' . R1gh t. V\ >hat they don t know about· si a in China ·in 1860 and •dur- moved to the rear of Washburn student body. J?Uthic and th~ muthic. b~thi~eth in~n ~~ stay in Shanghal, the dig- HaH. In 1914 it was allotted the 1th. ple~ty. R1ght agam. R1ght. gmg of a canal was begun. The ··space it occupies tod.ay,. agam. Now how about puttmg a .. workmen on the .project uncovered The four students who applied : gradu~te advithor on _th~ prom:· the statue and the .foreman of the 'the first paint .to the idol never ~omm1ttee. Thome muth1th1an, fo~ icrew presented it, probably with- realized they were establishing a For the past several years, it ha.s become mthtanthe, w'ho lmowth the buth1- 'out ceremony, to his Amel'ican \tradition. For years foHowing the increasing-ly apparent that Union has taken neth and who can get uth good friend, Dr. Farmham. E¥iden.tly fi-rst painting, ·it was customary for bandt_h for che:\-per than the hard the missionary was a grateful in-' the soph_omore? .to kidnap -~ fresh- more than a passive interest in the cultural workmg but, 1gnora~t memberth,_dividual and felt that it would ,man, relieve h1rx: of the priCe of. a life, not only of Schenectady, but also of the of the committee. It d thave uth make a wonderful gift for his' can of green pamt, and force hlm money and make prom better.· Alma Mater which had done . 80 : to .paint the idol \in honor of a:H TOWN AND GOWN · surrounding locale. Generosity in the loan of What thay?\ much for him i freshmen.\ The yearlings usua:lly f 'l\t' t d t' l fe enCeS Looking in the opp0site .direction,. • . . ' retaliated by making a second- CatUpUS aCll 1es 0 e uca JOlla con r ' I let a few choice words of wisdom· _D_r. Farmham ran mto a little: year man paint it red. When this the opening to the pablic of concerts and lee- roll out of the old oral cavity.: dlfflculty, however, when he ar-: practice was in its heyday, the idol tures, the loan of .Memorial Chapel to org·an- 'Percival,\ I say, \you had better rang~d to transport the !dol. Npon: became known .as the \Patron Sa-int watch out for Freddy Burns who is learnmg that 1 ~ 15 lova?Ie monster: of the Sophomores.\ izations which could secure no 0the1· suitable great shakes as a wrestler.\ was to leave lts natl~e Ian~. a, About the spring of 1902; a new hall for speakers-these and many other in\ \I am no thlouch mythelf,\ the :nealthy S~an_ghat .famlly clmmed wrinkle arose. On Moving-up Day pup answers. 1 .t. . The mi~SlDnary offered ·the~: both classes ,gathered around the stances indicate the g-rowing trend in the I am aware, of course, that $20, the family accepted a':d agree image and ceremoniously painted . past Oil the part of the college to assume, at Perthy is hurling it, for he is about to ask no. fu~·ther questiOns., He it white to signify a truce. This the feeblest-looking, anemic-acting then _obtamed reasonable t~ans- custom was short-lived, however. , least in part, active leadership in the cui- two-by-four who ever hit this portatJon ra~es on ll:n Amencan- Jn recent years, there has been turallife of the community. joint. But then I think, is his idea bound tea clipper which welcomed no so-called mob violence in con- at all bad or is it little good? the cargo as good ballast. nection with the painting, because This year, even tnore has beeD done in Obviously, 1 say, it has its fair Whether or not it had a calm pas- it has been unnecessary. At pres- this connection. Undet· the personal leader- points; so I kill two professors with sage is not known, but when it ar- ent, during the first few weeks of · h one hammer by saying the plan is rived on the campus it received no each college year, the members of ship and continu-ed efforts of Dr. Fox, t e conceivable, which make;; Perthy bet-ter reception than to be sto\Wed both classes ·become painters vol- Schenectady Town Meeting· 0f th~ Air has think I like him, which underneath away in an old shed under the care untarily. f l it al.J, I do, and also makes him of one Colonel Picket who was The frequent paintings of the developed into one of the ll\lOSt success U thmk he i~ a clever person, which grounds-keeper at that time. Here stone figure encased it so that the Sunday discussion groups in the .state. In he ain't. it temained for six:teen years before outline has been blurred. This has l d 1 d t t k Bugaboo, it was brought fmth m order to necessitated the frequent applica- addition, there has been SC 1e · U e 0 a e Hari-Kari. avoid the embar1assrnent which tion of a blow torch to remove the place on the campus, on April 17 and 18, a might result when the donor re- burdensome paint. Collfel 'ellCe Oil l'tldustl''' alld g·o\·er'l\\l1'leilt that turned to the campus to witness Two years ago an enterprising \ .. Editor, The Concordiensis: the commencement exercises in student, armed with a penknife will embrace even a wider area. It will be In the Friday issue of the Con- 1876. Fortunately he gave the col- and ruler, set out to determine just attended by representatives fl'Olll all the cordy, the Bill Kreuger gossip col- lege official;; ample warning of his how much paint was on the idoL umn, \Dutch Treat,\ prints an al- ·return. The idol was bl'Ought from His investigation revealed there New England states, and New York state, leged poem which I am supposed to hid'ing, and a foundation was hur- were 87 layers on the thighs, 30 and will correspond to similar conferences have written. I disclaim any au- riedly built for it on the most in- layers on the back and stomach, thorship, the poem is the product conspicuous spot on the campus- and 1%. inches of paint on its legs. arranged by Purdue for the Middle West, of the combined literary talents of far back of South College. Red and green were found to be and Rut!rers for the South. With such men Jack \Muskrat\ Malone and The students soon learned of the predominating colors with ~ James \Inspector\ Wade. their new neighbor and on the patches of blue, orange, gray, rna- as Gerard Swope and ttl. J. Evans appearing Sincerely, first day it was subjected to pub- roan, white, and yellow. Since 1936 on the campus to address the COI'lference, it Robert A. saaf. lie scrutiny, four students, one two painting periods have inter- junior and three sophomores who vened so the amount of paint has is plain that Union has assumed leadership were incensed over the hideous ad\ probably greatly increased. the campus. in discussion of one of the most important To the Editor: dition to the college family, de- Although a harmless tradition, cided to do something about it . .At the idol has presented the college Sho1'tly before leaving offic~, the fanner editOl's of \The CollCOrdiensis\ prii1ted an editorial calling attention to the fact that the Garnet Key Society was rapidly joining the ranks of the several moribund activities on At the t•isk of being repetitive, V~o'e ex.p1·ess of all phases of the modern scene. In my two years at Union Col- midnight they secured the neces- with some perplexing moments. In simi1al' sentiments on this subject. \V e feel There are many, howevet', who hold that lege I have had considerable diffi- sary tools and under the shelter 1919, a small part of the lion's f culty in securing the necessary of darkness applied black paint to right leg was cut out. In 1921, the that tlu: Gamet Key is, latently, one 0 OUI' the function of the small college is to edu- athletic <'quipment from the stock- the pedestal and white paint to left leg and part of the smaller most vital activities and that membershi]l in cate its own students-nothing more nor room fDI' participation in sports. the lion itself. It was thus that the <Continued on Page 4) Not because there is a laclt of the society could easily become one of the less. This attitude is held b~r a surprisingly equipment, but because of the in- greatest campus honors. It is because the large group. competence or lack of interest by the pe1'son in charge of the room. Key could play such an important role ()ll the Upon close appraisal, hov.·ever, this view- Students participating in athletics campus that \Ve reg-ret to see it become an- point breaks down. The duty of ~~ college is should be encouraged and not hin- . dered by this difficulty. I believe other of our apathetic mganizatwns. undoubtedly the education of its own stu- this matte1· can be. and should be Union has enough \dead wood\ activmes dents, but it also bears the same obligation, 1emedied. without the Garnet Key becoming· ai10'ther to a lesser degree, to be sure, to the people of these mere key-granting institutjons. At of the surrounding area whose opportunities othe1· colleges these key organizations are for that same college education, in many alert and aggressive, and as a co11sequence cases, never existed. As for the matter of membet·ship is a highl,Y cherished distinc- arranging conferences to discuss :plans for tion. the betterment of modern life, tl1is is sm·ely Sincereiy yours, Paul Rieger. At Union, however, the spirit and morale the best answer to the ct·itics >.'l'ho always of the Key appears to be ebbing from day to speak of the useless impracticab-ility of the day. :Ueetings have become more and rnore knowledge gained in, and the set-vice rend- infrequent, the last meeting having t2ken ered by, the American college. place several \veeks ago. Sophomm·e ''candi- There are some instances of colleges serv- dates\ are assigned to m.eet visiting teams ing in this capacity throughout the countr)' and t() execute the various other :ftmetions -some, it is true, but too few. lt is not at of the Society. all unreasonable, therefore, t<J believe that if Union needs the service that the Key can this far seeing policy of true adult education, offer too much to allow this institution to and practical solution for problems be con- become a purely honorary one. There is still tinued, Union might become the cultural life in the Garnet Key-let us hope that this focus, not only for the entire CaJ>-ital District organization does an about-face befor-e turn- but also of a larger area. And -what would ing its duties over to sophomoees on M()ving- be more fitting than to have thi-s leadership up Day, and does not set the precedent of assumed by the oldest liberal arts college in having this .society become anothet· Jog in the vicinity, one that has, exceJ:>t for a few Union's pile of \dead \Vood\ activities, lapses in the past, consistently beld to this forward attitude, and, we hope, vvill continue COME ONE, COME ALL! to hold to it in the future? A. F. Caxl Van Doren, editor, author, and clitic, OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARY willlectul'e at 8:00 o'clock in Old Ch.aJ!)el to- When the boys at Am.herst we:re subjected nig-ht as the second speaker for this :year in to X-ray scrutiny for possible tuberculosis, the Ichabod Spencer Lectme series. 1t J.s not so long ago, one of the examiners was with a. purpose of exhortation that we urg·e disappointed in having to announce that students to hear this experienced writer p-re- there were no positive cases dif!.eovered. In sent a subject for which he is well gu.1alified view of another type of examin2tion sched- to speak. l\1r. Van Doren will lecture on uled fot· the near future, said tester seems \Benjamin Franklin,\ Dn which subject he to have remarked, \They g()t by- the X-rays has written his \!Jest seller\ biogra.phy of a.Jl right, but I'll get them on the Wasser- the gt·eat American. man.\ Langsam Supplement Out Today \Major .European and Asiatic De- velopments Since 1935\ is- the title of Profes~or Walter c. Langsam's new book published today by Mac- millian and Company of New York. It is a small paper bound volume designed. to b-ring Professor Lang- sam's book \Europe Since 1914\ up to date. The book takes up world history at the point where Professor Lang- sam's earlier work left off and cov- ers the war in Spain, -the Chinese- Japanese conflict, the Munich agreement and other events until February 1939. ---0--- Notices Loan Intet·est The Comptroller's Office has an- nounced that remittances covering the interest due on Student Loans may be mailed before April 1 if desired. Students using this serv- ice should enelose the bill forms with their remittances. Make-up 'I'ests Registration for make-up tests to be given on Monday, April 10, must be completed at the office of the Dean before 5 o'clock Tues- day, March 28. Students must ob- tain at the Dean's office a slip to be signed by the instructor giving the course, return the slip to the office, and pay a registration fee ef one dollar. &3lJlll stm·tlng ·ronA Y 1 \l'itl:SON WI'l'HOU'l' BARS\ with the sensationo.J new star Corinne Lucltaire 21Hl Hlg Hit \INSIDE STORY\ with ~Ilcha.el Wl!alen, J~a.n Rogexs Youpick the spot-We'll take you there IT Yz THE COST OF DRIVING \Whether you're heading fo.: the old homestead, honor- Ulg the room-mate with a visit:, .ducki~g <lawn So11th, or doing the Big City, we've gOt a bus that's going your way I Another nice thing about Greyhound-our fares don't look big even to a college-educated pocket book. You'll have more fun .the Greyhound way-nnd :5JOu'll find plenty of places to spend the money saved I NEW YORK PITTSFIELD NEWARK BOSTON NORTHAMPTON ·BUFFALO SYRACUSE ROCHESTER CLEVELAND WASHINGTON GREYHOUND TERMINAL 2.85 1.36 2.85 3.95 2.35 4.90 2.40 3 .. 95 a. so 7.15 0 We bers have 1 the ti pl'an 1 cause wear \DI with •l tellec1 Troy, with· cent· nic.\ aCC(}U articl1 lows ( spoke that our g stude him, 1 one ' arg-ue Prevt \Cyni Ted winnE lea vel moun other who troub educa Verm seaso ins tit Note Next versi1 cours ed. J bait cook comp haps don't in PJ Jack! does lary11 woul1 violir Pre' w the been a fe1 tling mud chan is a hook cater SincE most seen take tle • no r did l befo sled~ This Mau Killi lade1 mm::::

was stay osity evcer was god but the 'by were ievced was the never a the for fresh- of a him of ail sually this -idol Sa·int new Day the ainted This been con- ecause pres- eks of of vol- the the has the prising just idoL there 30 omach, ts legs. to be with rna- 1936 inter- int has college In Uon's the smaller d, honor- So1tth, going pocket saved! 2.85 1.36 2.85 3.95 2.35 4.90 2.40 3 .• 95 a. so 7.15 -3415 THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1939 A PECK Four of 44 Survive Handball Competition The Handball tournament has Page Three Fencing Semi-Finals End Thursday OF SPORTS Freshman Baseball Candidates Begin Spring Practice Three Technical Knockouts, Ten Fa~lls Feature Boxing,.. Wrestling :Matches reached the final round, with two Semi-fina1 elimination b0uts held men in each flight fighting it out Thursday afternoon saw the ranks Four boxing matches, three of for the right to represent their of swordsmen competing for Union ThirtyNthree Report which ended in technical knoclt- ond match was faster, in which H. bracket in the final match for the College Intramural honors thinned ·outs, and ten wrestJ.ing bouts, !!!ll Talbot Mead threw BiH Noonan charnpi0nship. Forty-four students considerably. In 16 matches Coach We \'eo·ret that \\any \'em- T t t• S ·h d ·1 M d of whJ'ch ended 1 ·n fa·l·ls, en,ter·ta1 ·n- J·n two mr'nutes and thirty-Jive sec· entered the competition. -Me1·ton Zubres was able to select .... \' · · ••• \'' . . . en a 1ve c e u es · a · e bers of the college farruly .F • h e.d a large crowd of students and onds. The Kappa Nu's are sure to the eight men who wHI face each have e~nr.essed d-isapproval of .. 01' F1ve 0+ er Freshman townspeople in Alumni Gymnasium Paul Santoro won from Donald have at least one man in the play-· other for the championships nex:t \' T t B A d last night. Collr'ns 1 ·n five m. 1 ·,nu·tes. Thr\s was offs, for there are three representa- Saturday. The finals wil'l be held in the tl 'tle of :t·hl's· col·umn. w· e · · earns o e nnounce · 'II · h In the first boxing match, Paul, one of the hal'dest-fought encount- tives from that house stJ m t e conjunction with the boxing and pl'an to continue to use· it, be-, Freshman baseball candidates Santee's straight left jabs and ers 0 f the night, with Santoro he· running, along with one Beta. The wrestling championships, cause by pleasing ourselves 'tumed out 33 strong yesterday aft- heavy rights to Allen Orton's face ing the more aggressive of -the two. sole Beta is Chet Robinson,. who Abraham Bakal and Frank Mete we are p-leasing someone ..•• ernoon for the first organization· were decisive factors in Santee's In the last of the lightweight will face Arby Halpern for the title emerged victorious in their re- I Oth C ·meeting with Coach Hal Wittner. victory :by a technical knockout in fights, Billy Thomas pinned Don· in his bracket. In the other flight, spective brackets of foil competi- , ·n er amps Wittner 8utlined plans for the .sea· the second round. Or.ton came out· ald Phillips in a long. slow battle. \Tiny\ Weintraub will face his tion and will meet to decide su- \Duke\ Nelson, formerly. son and announced a practice in the fina·l r0und with slight col- Thomas was cautioned early in !be fraternity bJ•other, Stan Gertz, .in premacy. Bakal subdued Bob Mar- d • h d 1 aft II' f b · f · oring around his nose. Both m· en fight for the use of a flyr·ng tacl•le, the match which will leave one of tr'n 5-1 r·n the semr'-fina·ls a-fter .the W ith Union an now at the in-. sc e · u e er ca mg or · r1e per- , . a! h - t f h d'd t mixed it up and Orton delivered a but went on to win. them to vie for the champiOn· paJ·r had· beaten B1'H Moore and tellectual incinerator over at son 15 ory 0 eac can 1 a e. h' T . d b' 't From the large turnout it would hard right behind Santee's left :In the 145-158 pound class, the s lp. W Del Goldberg, respectively, in · roy \'eCelve a Ig wr1 ·e up ear for the onlv telling blow he In reaching the finals, cin- ea· rlier· m·· a·tches. Mele ad.vanced to ' .... - ' 'app· ea·r· that W1't-tner· faces a vet'\ J favored Don Henderson thr·ew Hud· J · traub beat Dick Griffith, 21·11, with pictu.re to Hl.atch -in a re~ busy task in weeding out the less scOl'ed during the ·fight. He fell to Tanner in a minute and a half, 21-16. Gertz trimmed Bob Schul- the finals with a 5-4 victory over cent issue of the \Polytech- capable ahd getting his squad down the fioor after bumping into San- which was the sh0rtest match on Herman after each man had taken tee and t0ok the count of nine. h 1 . I h th b - th' berg, 21-8, 21·8. Halpern outpointed Kimmey and Meyer Ries, respec- n ·l·c.\ Besi'des the bl·ogran .. hl\·ca·l. to more convenient size. t e ·Jst. n t e o er out rn . JS, Lee Sherman, 21.-1 and 21-3, and ··!:' When he regained his feet, Santee · ht 1 H · L tively t f M N 1s th Wl 'ttner also announced th m werg c ass, owle awrence Robr'ns·on def~.n.ted Gr'l•ber·t Kopf, ' aCC(}U!l o r. e on, · e · · · e nu · drove him around the ring, and th R \'I lb 'd ft th = K\ d M'k C · ber nf tentat 1 ·ve athletr'c cuntn-ts rew oy \'a rr ge a er eee· 21 _ 16 , 214 , Warren rmmey an 1 e ap- - u · ·. · minutes of a colorless struggle. 0 ____ piello each toak 3-2 victories in ar -tl'cle con·tal·,ne.J· , ''The fel- · ·~ · · '\' cte·t1'ver·ed two hard rJ·ghts whr'ch for five freshman spring sports stunned Orton. Referee Ed Fitz 'll t f low ·S on t·he· camnus w·h·o h\ve · t H d r· d t 1 th ·I.n the first of the four hea'\'· p· T Ad the semi-finals and wr mee or · · · · · \' · \' eams. e · ec· me · o re ea~e · e stopped the fight at this point. San- · J 1ngpong · ourney vances· h h- K' k •th M N l f 1 I' t f t h weight bouts, Bundy Shaw pinned · • the epee c ampions rp. 1mmey s·po en WI r. . e son · ee 1s o · opponens w o will be play- tee was still unmarked. T h\ A Obt • d >K ft that he i-s Union's loss and ed, explaining that the schedules Paul .Jones in a long, tedious strug- rop 1es re · ame won from Mele and .~.v.oore a er .. d th t h th have not ·been completed. Frosh Killian Wins Easily gle, replete with much grunting The second round matches in Moore had defeated Martin. Cap- our gam, an a W en e · netmen will probably be most ac- Bob Killian, the J'umping kanga- and groaning. In the second heavy· b h - • d 1 • b k piello took Bob Herman after t . d t b d t t 1' oth t e winners an oser s rae - Bakal and R·J'es had met defeat in S U ·en , 0 y ge S 0 C!lOW· tive, according to Wittner, wh0 roo, completely out-classed his op- ·weight match, Lee Sherman pinned t f th · t · , l , A1 • d e s o e m er-group pmg pong the bracket. him, they wrl• agree that he iS disclosed that they would definiiJ· ponent, Don Dingman, in the sec- Jillson m four minute.s an tournament have been com]JJetc.d, one 'swell guy.' \We won't ly play three matches and possibly ond fight, to score a technical thirty-five seconds. The bout was Burt Brittin, co-director announced Stan Gertz won the right to face th. t • t \B b ll two others !moclwut in the first round, Kil- fast all the way, with neither of today, He also announced that two Jose Friere in the finals by beat- ar~rue . a P· om . . . ase a' · th t t ts h Id' h t h <1 ~ !ian's most effective blows were up-· e cones an o rng muc o large trophies have been becured ing Bill Birdsall 5-2 after each a Prevue ., 1 ·.n the Vermo-nt U.' .Nine Has Three Games d t t'l th f 11 I' · t ' percilts. After Dingman was knock-. an a van age un 1 e · a · for the first and second place win- won the pre Jmmary ma c,les. \Cynic\ reveals that Captain Baseballers have three games list-. ·ed to his knees twice, Killian de- Payson Hatch lost to Stewart ners in the tournament. Birdsall won from Ed Fisher 5-3 Ted Budzyna, seven-game .ed, while the golf outfit will battle livered the \mercy\ blow with a· Goldblatt in a match which con· In the winner's bracket, Sigma and Gertz took a 5-4 triumph from . d t d d 't twice .. Two tests are booked and hard right smash to the head. tained more grunts than the previ' Phi defeated the Neutral.;, 4-1; Cappiello. Friere met Bob Eisner w1nner, gra ua e • an · 1 another is pending for the la~roo:l~- Bill Harkness eked out a decision ous one. Goldblatt was the aggres· Kappa Nu defeated Phi Sigma and was successful by a 5-4 tally . leaves a hig gap in the Gata- ers. Freshman runners have one in a close battle with Ed Gagen, sor, and the fall came soon a:fter he Delta, 3-2; Sigma Chi wun from mount's pitching staff. An- meet scheduled and one or two who surprised the spectato·rs by go-: was able to close with Hatch. 1t North College, 5-0; Phi Gamma other item: \Pike'; 'Trigilio others pending. They are expect~d ing the route of three rounds. Hark- lasted three minutes and fifteen Delta I defeated Phi Delta 'l'heta who caused Union so much to meet Albany High, Nott Ter- ness won the first round handily seconds. II, 5-0. race and Mont Pleasant. by flooring his opponent three The last fight was brief and,de- In the loser's flight, Phi Delta trouble by frequent use of his The baseball cand-idates arc a.s, times. Both gladiators battled it crs1ve. Dick Kearns beat Bill Theta I beat Phi Gamma Delta II, educated. toe in the Union- follows: pitchers, Ed Ryan, .:Vlilte out toe-to-toe in the early part of Guerry in a minute and a half. 4-1; Kappa Alpha tied Delta Phi, Vermont football game last Stanco,. Waldo Strahan, Do11 Ding- the second round, during which Tomorrow's Schedule 2-2 <doubles match will be p.ayed season, l.eft the New Eng-land man and Stan Greenst0iu; catch- Harlmess was warned for holding. The semi-finals of the wrestling later); Alpha Delta Phi dt>featcd . t't t' t .d 1 .ers, Bob Panotf and Harry Si.e- As the round drew to a close, the will be held tomorrow evening, Lambda Chi Alpha, 5-0; Psi Upsilon ms 1 U lOll a nu -yearS. • · • '\ens· r\nfields Br\ll Gl.JeJ·r•_.·, \\om actr'on slowed down as both fiaht n f o D It U 'I 3 2 ' ' \' · Marsh 22, and the finals of both wo r m e a psr on, · . Note to .the Administration: Parsons, Andrew Speziali, Bob ers became tired. Gagen out-fought. wrestling and boxing will occur The games in the losers' bracket Next year at Columbia ,Uni- Davis, Lee Sherman, Ned Herlly, his heavier adversary in the third Saturday night. which must be played by Thursday versity Teachers College a George Coley, Bob Miller, Sam round, scoring frequently with night are: Phi Delta Theta 1 vs. Kohlenberg, Joe Genova, Sherry rights and lefts to the head. Both The schedule for tomorrow night Delta Upsilon II; Alpha Delta Phi COUl\Se in fishing Will be add-· Hilliclt, Joe Furlong, Fred Chese- fighters were warned for punching follows: vs. Psi Upsilon; Phi Sigma Delta ed. Instruction in the use of bro, Al Orton, Jack Ehrcke ar,d in the clinches. The decision was Wrestling-··125-135 pounds class, vs. North College, and Kappa bait and lures, and how to Bill Horton. booed lu.stily by the spectators. Jesse Serman vs Bernard O'Neil; Sigma vs. Phi Delta Theta II. cook and mount the catch. will' Also autfielders, Don Phillips, Mauriello Boxes Cleverly Paul Dwyer vs. Billy Thomas. 135- . h . l p Jewell Horning, Bob Hfrllenbeck, Sal Mauriello finished Bob Davis 145 pound class, Avery Beer vs. compriSe t e curriCU Uffi. er- Dave Clowe. AI Rassom, Don Mor- Robert Muther Dudley Holmes vs in the middle of the second round · ' · haps it could be done here? ris, Abe Dorsman,. Tom Mers(ln, Paul Santoro. 158-174 pounds· class, I h . h U . \\d W t h d of their scheduled three-round bat- Dr\cl'r'nson Gri'ffr'th vs. Arnold Ha-r·- . . . s t IS w y 1110n men .d.. an uc . and Larry Fe! muu; • u ,.. 11 tie. Both fighters set a fast pace in. wood. 174-186 pound class, Sherry doll 't cheer 111ore ?, Speakr'ng manager, \'yron \\ 1 s. th · · t f th fi t e openmg mmu es 0 e rs Wait vs. Art Davis-. Heavyweight- in Philadelphia, Dr. Chevalier . round. Mauriello appeared to be an (Continued on Page 4) Jackson says that cheering up. Never havmg seen Me- experienced boxer, for he pane- does as lnuc ·h damag-e to the earthy un_ der fire, this d.e- trated his opponent's defense and ~ scored with powerful rights to larynx as a wielded hammer partment lS unable to predict body and lefts to the face. The fact would -do to a Stradivarious the outcome, except to say he that Mauriello is a left-bander violin. will have to produce a lot .to bothered his opponent considerably. t th I I f J Davis was the aggressor at the Precarious P1·ognotications wres e aure s rom lm start of the second round, but Sal's . . , h Bothwell who floored Jake stiff rights stopped him. When Wl~h I~st ~lght s _mate es, Amazon six times in the first Referee Ed Fitz stopped the con- the flnahsts. m boxmg have round last year. Both of them test, blodd was streaming from been deter1~m~d, and now for have been training diligently, Davis' nose and he was tottering. a. few predictiOns: · ·, • Bat- so may the better man win in wrestling tltng Beecher ~houl~n t ha':e what should be the best bout Four of the wrestling matches much trouble ?lsposmg of h1s of the evening .... We'll leave were in the 1owe1· weight classes. h 11 R 11 Th h In the first match of the evening, ~ a eng·.er, . e1 Y-. e c ~p the wre-stling pr:edictions for Paul Dwyer beat .Jack Delcha.mps IS a defensive f1~hter Wlth someone else. in an uneventful fight. The sec- hook ·punches wh1ch should catch Reilly coming in. . • • Since Santee is the coolest, Dress Shirts Expertly Done most efficient fighter we've seen in some time, he should take Wardwell in a close bat- AMERICAN A·l LAUNDRY tle ••. If Bill Harkness fights Ph. 4-8166 no more cautiously than he 1030 BaiTett St. did last night, he is due to fall before Champion Nate Paul's sledge-hammer swings . . • This corner is picking Sal Mauriel1o to out-distance :eob Killian, the human kangaroo. ..• \and the main attraction, ladees and gents,\ is a toss- DeWITT•s LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM We Serve Good Food for Good Health 118-120 Jay St. Opp. New City Hall mm::m:::::::m::m::::mmmm:::m::::::::m:::::m:::r:m::m:::m::mmm:::mmm:::mm::mm::mm::mm::!~~ For that midnight snack! visit The FARM Restaurants 104 and 501 STATE ST. Bellevue Quality Bakery 2626 Broa()wa:~- Phone 4-624.8 BREAD- ROLLS- PASTRY PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electricaf JAS.F BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. Unquestionably Favored! I . I The ELITE TAILOR 516 Union Street TUXEDOS FOR RENT Expert Tailoring Free Delivery Phone 4-74451 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Quality .. Ser-vi€;e Satisfaction\ 598 B'way - Fo, Bot!\ Val••• ! lnt~usted in Schenectady I11tertst~d in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jewe/N' 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairinq a Specialty PARKER and WATERMAN PENS PEOPLE'S Food Market FINE FOODS and GROCERIES 1291 Rugby Rd. AT YOUR FAVORITE SODA FOUNTAIN ::: m RED'S LUNCH iii ·Pleasant Valley Meat Market ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BRANDHORST PHARMACY Ill ,. LUNCHES - DINNERS ill m Specializing in l~l Iii s E A F 0 0 D Iii Ill CL;~~o~n~A~~~:~ELL F~~~E~y;~:~~ .1.!. Ill CLAM STEW STEAMED CLAMS !!! iii 517 Liberty St. Back of Post Office 1ii m W Wm:m::::m::m::m:::m:::mm::::m:::::::mm::::mHhi:im:mm:m:mmmm::m:m:m:m:m:m::m:::H::m:::r Gazette Press Printing • Home of Sunshine Meat Products • 586-592 Broadway PHONE 4·3181·2·3·4 BELLEVUE D A I'R Y PHONE 4·2553 Jay Jewelry Co. 306 State Street WATCH and JEWELRY REPAIRING 633 State St. 226 Not+ Ter. 204 Union St. 1009 Chrisler Ave. PHONE 6-3456 .. Still A Drug Store 11 \ON THE CORNER•• Union Street & Gillespie BRANDHORST PHARMACY Edw. H. Brandhorst, Reg.l'har. Leland E. Brandhorst, Reg. Phar. Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY ST. ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS

Page Four Value of Church Stressed by WeUes Praises Dr. Ligon's Book As 'Best Contribution To Mind and Spirit' Dr. Fox Leaves to Speak At Univ. of Minnesota THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1939 Skidmore, Union Council.Preside-nts Placement Outlook Bright for Seniors m ll f R. t Dolz\tz\cal Dame \At p~esent the outlook for senior President Dixon Ryan Fox. ~ e 0 lSe 0 I 1 I' I placement is very good,\ Frederic will leave tonight for Min- A. Wyatt said Saturday morning in neapolis where he will speak be- By JACK PIDLLIPS -$----------------- an interview with a Concor'dlensis fore the Spring Commence- lege. The polittcal wF~rs in school reporter. He added that the Place- ment Convocation at the Unlver- In scanning the Skidmore week- and em the sandlots had left them ment Bureau has been receiving sity of Minnesota on Thurs~ay. ly, a headline entitled, \Miss Bei- in the best of shape and the Union two and three replies daily from \I am not considering my other His subject will be \Educatmg netti Wins, Winner Dazed by Flow- campus soon rang with Yunich's placement bulletins. During the listeners today, but my remarks Whole Men.\ ers and Telegrams,\ caught our hearty c!ies of, \Franklin and I spring recess several groups of sen- 1 will be entirely directed to college Last Sunday, Dr. Fox was the eye. In reading further we dis- have a 'New Deal' for the bOY\S,\ iors plan to take placement trips to students,\ said Dean Edwat·d R. guest chapel speaker at Rut~ers covered that Miss Louise Beinetti, while Saratoga readily accepted New Yorlt, Buffalo, and other large Welles of All Saints' Cathedral, AI- University in New Brunswick, those of us who know her well call \Boss\ Benny's policies. As in the cities for first hand information bany, opening his sermon in Mem- N. J. He lectured on the position her \Benny so you'll pardon us movies, everything always ends and interviews. orial Chapel on Sunday. of Rutgers in the college world if we take the liberty, anyway Benny well and Davey and Benny, realiz- F 0 1Jowing in the series of repre- Dean WeHes emphasized the im- and on the history of that in- has won an election and all her ing this, went ahead, applied the sentatives of various firms who 1 portance which the church can play stitution. friends have thrown flowers and pressure through their dorm and have (){)me to the campus, Mr. Bar- in the success of students after telegrams at her. The girls have fraternity lieutenants, and are now ney Nudelman 0f the Connecticut graduation, and spoke of the \inner elected her president of the stu- in the hot seats. Dave is president Mutual Life Insurance Company philosophy of life.\ J:Ie said, \The. Carl van Doren dent body for the coming year and of the Union College student body will be at Union Wednesday to in- Chri~tian Church extsts to teach T S k T • bt Benny didn't know what tG say and Benny is president of the Skid- terview all those who have any in- man how to exert his power. Man 0 pea Ontg she was so happy. more student body. terest in insurance. alone has not sufficient power to d · t B 's o---- t tContinued from Page 1) In delving eeper m 0 enny' In a statement relea£ed through meet the non-physical elernen.s . B df d V past we discovered that she hails R F Ill which have been sadly ignored.\ His wife, Mrs. I_nta ra ~r an fro~ Albany and that she had start- his pr•ess agent, President Yunich Bronner ecovering rom ness He continued. \I have never met Dolen is the literary edttor of . said, \We are d<Jflnitely cut out to Dr. Frederick L. Bronner, of the him, but 1 nave the highest ad_- \Book~\ the literary section of the' ed ~er scholastic _career one year be executives. We were both born Y , ·k H ld T ibune\ behmd Dave Yumch. From that under the sign Gf Taurus in the History Department, who has been miration for Dr. Ligon, your eml- New 01 era r ' · t · n interesting parallel confined to his home with a strep- n ant PS''cholog 1 ·st. H 1 's book, 'Tll' In 1926 with Zona Gale Joseph pom arises a · Zodiac lto you whose intelligence . 11 c J ' In 1932 when Dave graduated from tococcus mfection of the throat, WI Psychology of Christian Persona~- Wood Krutch and Glenn Fr8;nk, he the William Hackett Junior High is not up to an. average standard, return to his classes before the 1ty,\ 1s one of the gteatest contll- founded the ~lterary Gmld ~f School he was president of the stu- this is the sign of the bull) and I Spring vacation according to Dr. butions to mimi and spirit tha: l America of whtch he became edl- ' . . want to thank him for leading me h t to r-in-ehief. This undertaking \ap- dent body and m the followmg y<Jar always upward.\ In her statement Joseph Doty. He further stated t a have ever read.\ h t 1 h' 'deals 1 .n when Benny graduated from the Professor Bronner is almost well F 1 , inciples proac es mos near y IS J . t't t' h too was to the press, Benny says, \Hon- our I' . ~cquainting a large number of peo- sam: ms I u wn, s e, ' estly I'm dazed, and that's no nOIW. CALENDAR Tuesday 8:00 p. m.-Carl Van Doren- Old Chapel. Wednesday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly- To be announced, 8:00 p. m.-Sigma Xi Lecture. Speaker, Prof. W. I. Milham- Physics Lecture Room. Thm'sdlty 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly- Miss Grace Reavy. 7:3(} p. m.-Pyramid Club, Silli- man Hall. Theta Nu Epsilon meeting. Dr. Ligon's office. Friday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly- Dr. El. A. Tidmarsh. J. S. HANDELMAN QUALITY GROCERIES and MEAiJ'S Fresh Fruits & Vegetab-les Daily Fresh Butter and Elggs FREE DELIVERY Phone 6-60 I b 920 State St. Characterizing man as a con- pie with well selected literature.\ pvesJdent of the student body. 'Paurus.\ <Somebody throw her a President Fox has been conduct- queror, Dean Welles said, \Man is Among the books written by5~a;l The couple, by now calloused in Pisces, and to those few this means ing Profesor Bronner's classes in con que! ing distance, eal th, space, Van Doren are \Three Worlds, hiS ttlh~e~w~a~y~s~o~fjp~o~l~it~i~cs~.~e~n~t~e~r~ed~~c~o~l-~fl~s~h=·~) ~------------~~t~h~e~l~a~t~te:r~··s~a~b~s:e~n~c~e~. -----=---~~:=:=:=::=:::=::=::=:::=:::':::':::':~::':::':~ and time, but he has not conquered :J.Utobiography; \Thomas Love Pea- ::: himself. cock,\ \James Branch Cabell,\ \One has only to read the n~ws- \Swift and \Sinclair Lewis,\ papers to learn that the _wor: i ~s biographies; \Other Provinces\ and in a state of wild confusiOn. ThiS \The Ninth Wave,\ fiction. i> the inevitable result of secula1 humanism and materialism which have reduced man to abjecL gpJvi- tude to material things. \The elements of collap<;e b rc pt esent , .. so the church is the answer to mar.'s needs. It '\ no: necessary to discover a suc<'e:,.ful pattern of life It has alreadv been made available by Jesus It IS only necessary to appropriate anrl ap· MOTION II •• SIX STEPS TO MORE SMOKING PLEASURE ply the pattern. \J<'sUs gave four simple princl- J'Ilf's which, pt'oducPd in the l!ldl- v:dual and society at large, giv~ a happy and satisfied condition. T~e first is honesty . . . the second ;& pw ity ... the th11·d is humility ... and the fourth 1s generosity. Love Affair was a labor of same on the part of Leo McCarey, whose fine Etruscan fingerprints could have been detected on Rug- glo>s of Red Gap, Make Way for Tcmorrow, The Awful Truth, and such-like four-star films. Leo did the producing; Leo wrote the screen play; Leo directed. He did not design the costumes, play the lead role or sell tickets at the do01·. but we feel that whatever laurels the picture is garnished with should be wrapped up in a green bundle and sent to Mr. Mc- Carey, care of RKO studios. AGEING-Chesterfield's mild ripe tobaccos, like fine wines, are aged for two or more years in huge wooden casks. Here they gradu· ally acquire that true Chesterfield mildness and hetter taste which give millions of smokers more pleasure. \We need more than power and courage to apply these principles God o!Tc1 s you the strength,\ Dean \Velie> cuncluded ---0- ---- Ninety-one Men Have Swimming Test to Pass ,~crording to the latest list, nine- ty-one delinquent non - swimmers have failed to pass the required swimming tests. The well-known tact that a student doesn't get his dip!uma until hP has proved that lw can ~\' im twenty-five yards should not bother the nineteen sophomore, and sixty-three fresh- men, but the deadline is getting ve1y near for the nine junio1s. Furthermore, we are of the dis- gu~tingly orthcdox opimon that Lovt- Affair is an outstanding pic- ture. The facto:-s contributing to its success -- direction, dialogue, photography-are all best described by the word \neat\ The same story, or something very nearly the same, has been screened hundreds of times before, but never so well. Because the upperclassmen are deserving of special credit they will have the honor of having their full names p1 inted. The lowly sophomores and freshmen will only have their initmls. The jumors: Michael Alexander Cimorelli, Robert Arthur Egan. Walter A Fallon, John FitzSimons, Phil1p Toll Hill II. Marvin Alden Humphrey, Kenneth Andrew Mc- Leod. Ansell Erne~t Sweet. Don- ald James Waite. Underclassmen 1941 -Albl'ight, W. A.; Bruesch, C. J.; Cerasano, E. A.; Connor, H. F.; DeMatteo, R. E.; Ericson, R. P.; Fitzsimons, R. M.; LaCerva, S. P; Mackenzie, K. E.; Male, R. F.; :-.lcManu\. J J.; Murray, W G.; Nadler. H. 0.; Ottenot, E. M.; Por- ter, J. H.; Rickard, D. M.; Shanley, J P.; Thackeray, E. J.; Viscusi, W. 19-12 -West, W.; Birdsall, W. C.; Blake, D. K.; Britten, H. H.; Coates. W. R.; Coley, G. R.; Doyle, T. J.; Duquette. B. T.; Ehrcke, J. W.; Feigenbaum, A. V.; Feldman, L. L.; Fischer, A. C.; Fogg, M. N.; Forse, R. W.; Genova. J.; Giles, J. A.; Goldberg, D.; Guerry, W. A.; Hart, C. A.; Hill, W. D.; Hillick, J. S.; Horsman, W. B.; Horton, W. F.; Johnson, F W.; Keeler, C. B.; Kelch, E C ; Killian. R. K; King, E. T.; Knopf, A.; Kohlenberg, S. G ; Landry. P. J.; Levine, L.; Lichte, W J.; Little, R. W; Linde- berg, J. A.; Loughran. J A.; Mac- Donald, J. E.; Mead, H T; Mills M.; Mudge, J W.; Orton, A. S.; Parson, T. L.; Poole, J. A.; Rifen- bark, H. E.; Rooney, J. L.; Royce, C. P.; Sammons, H. R.; Shell, G. H.; Smith, H. E.; Speziali, A.; Stanco, M A.; StevPns D. L.; Swart, W. F ; Thyne, F S.; Van Aernum, J. H.; van Zandt, W. K.; Walker, E. D.; Wardell, E. R.; Weider, J. C.; Weller, W. E.; Willson, R. H.; Woodard, C E.; Yuen, S. K. C.S.MOODY OPTOMETRIST 115 B'way Tel. 6-5747 Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted Three Doors from State St. Charles Boyer, playing a domesti- cated wolf, maintains his excellent emotmg average. I1ene Dunne re- mains our choice for the two most versatile actresses in Hollywood, J.nd Maria Ouspensl{aya's \Grand- mother\ is a pleasant relief after all these years of May Robson. It's very superior all around. J. M. ----0---- lntramural Boxing and Wrestling Summaries 1 Continued from Page 3> J. B Shaw vs. Lee Sherman; Stew- art Goldblatt vs. Dick Kearns. All contestants are asked to re- port promptly at 7:30 p. m. The :-.umn1afle~: Boxing- Hantee str!tl:'d a tethr1ital l·mmkout o\·er Or- tnll C.!); Killian s<ored a leC'hni<al \utodwut t•\ er I )ingman ( 1); Ha rl<- ne~s won by tledt·:iOlt over Ed UagPn (3); .\lauriello \''\red a technical kwn kout ov~r IJavi~ t:.!). \\·res thug. :\lead \\ n11 by fall over :\:nonan. ~ ·35; I>v. yer \\on by fall fi'Om IJelchamt·~. 5 · 40. Thoma.s won by tan u\'1;'1 Phillips. ti.-!5; Santoro won bv tall ovl'r C'olhll~. !i :00, Hendeor~on \\.Oll hy ran OVE-r Tanner. 1:30; l...a\V- '\\' e \\Oil by fall over VI! a! bridge, 3·011; ::>haw won by fall from Jones, ,;·fifi: ;.;h<e1man won by fall from Jtll- ~nn, 4:35; Goldhlatt won by fall from Hat1'!1, 3; 15; K~an•s v.on b~ fall from tiueny, 1:30. ----0---- ldol History Revealed <Continued from Page 2) image were pried off with large iron pipes. On both occasions the culprits were never found and the statue was restored to its original shape at the expense of the college. The mutilation in 1921 caused great consternation among the students, and a reward of $200 was offered for the arrest, or evidence leading to the conviction of the prank- sters. The latest troublesome incident centering around the idol occurred one night early in this college year when a group of freshmen poured kerosene over the image and set fire to it. Thanks to the action of members of the nearby fraternities, the idol suffered only a c':J.arred surface, but Schenectady's lo~al firemen were called out on a frUit- less mission. BELLINGER 'PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paints, Oils, VamlshN, Glass, Brushes and Wall Paper 126 BROADWAY He'll say ... Look what it says on the back of the package ... \Chesterfield Cigarettes are a balanced blend of the finest aromatic Turkish tobacco and the choicest of several American varieties blended in the correct proportion to bring out the finer qualities of each tobacco.\ Copyright 1939, LIGGBT'l' & MYERS ToBACCO Co. When you try them you will know why Chesterfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure •.. whyTHEY SATISFY hesterfield ... the blend that can't be copied ... the 'RIGHT COMBINATION of the world's best cigarette tobaccos STEMMING-\Almost human\ is what they say about the inter· esting stemming machines, whose fingers pick up the tobacco, leaf by leaf and take out the stem, leaving only the mild, tender, good-tasting part of the leaf to go into the making of Chesterfields. BLENDING-There is only one Chesterfield blend •.• the blend that can't be copied ••. a haPPY combination of the world's best American and Turkish tobacws. Just the right proportions to make Chesterfield a milder, better-last· ing cigarette. PAPER-Every Chesterfield you smoke is wrapped in pure cigarette paper, •. the finest cigarette pa()er made. That's another reason why Chesterfields are milder and bet· ter-tasting, MAKING-Almost faster than the eye can follow, Chesterfields come rolling out of the marvel· ous cigarette making machines. Chesterfields are always round, /irtn and well·filled. PACKAGING-Truly amazing are the packaging machines which wrap and seal Chesterfields in their air-tight, moisture-proof packages. Regardless of where you buy them, Chesterfields t'e.aclz ;vot~ as fresh as the day they were made, T ~ 'Z.-51 1 Vol. I - Fac Fif1 s. Oppt Mem Cone Joh1 Falls, chang to St land\ dent today. Dr. was I tion • sis tin! Dr. I- Frede LeV\ Ralst( is nm this 2 sehol~ and b LeVI Colle~ land Q.ther have Huro· Scher Balte St. one study chan! sent . Colle! wa1d ett, 1 drew The will 1 Le' Socia Hudf he v and activ high by n age won a war rank scho has toria also boar selor The fres-1 tean extr. his and the com at l. his 1 Fe Be: • ' ( . A zati fest two up, Sch of Pro of ban pro lect hig anc 'I ble thr sur he~ o'cl ing Stt nis bul Jar me th~ by re1 fin be• to at

ly- St. Z.-51.1 Vol. LXII., No .. 44 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1.939 • Band Festiv:al Proposed PRICE FIVE CENTS Faculty C.ommittee Names John tewis c_arr~lt Lis.ts F •f h S A·'. d· . ·E .h . . S 'h I Final: Casting 1 t. t.. n · rews ~: xc ange c · o ar For Two Plays ·eeniamin Franklin· ·Seven States Send 146 Sub-Freshmen . The.me ofVanD·ore n. For Preview of College Activities Spencer Lecture · Succeeds Ralston Fraternity Houses Play Hosts for Weekend; Delivers Chapel Talk lntramurals and Visits to Classes Featured Fifth Exchange Student Spring Production Oppenheim P,ri:ze Winner Member of 'Idol and Concordiensis Board's John Prior Lewis, '41, of Hudwn Falls, N. Y., has been chosen ex- change schQlar from Union College · to St. Andrews University, Scot- land\ for the year 1939-41), Pre8i- dent Dixon Ryan Fox announced Barringer, Stevenson Spezia'li, and Fowler .Hold Lead :Parts Cites Examples Showing Franklin Was an Athlete, Inventor and Diplomat Edward L. Carroll, director of Dr. Carl Van Doren, speaking · Sub-Freshman Weekend Calendar Announced Sub-freshmen representing pre- paratory schools, high schools a~d junior coUeges in seven states, wtll · arrive on the Union College cam- pus tonight for a three day stay in which they will become ac- quainted with the various build- ings, classrooms, fraternity houses and other establishments. Frederic A. Wyatt, '32, assistant to the beC- retary, who is in charge of the week-end program, announced yes- terd:ay that 146 men had accepted invitations and would definitely be guests. This will be the sixth an- nual affair of its kind. the Mountebanks, has announced under the auspices of the Ichabcd .the final casting fot· the two· Moun- Spencer Foundation, gave an ad- tebanks.' spring productions, \A d1ess on \Benjamin Franklin as, Private Venture\ and \A Grotesque an Individual\ in the Old Chapel, for November.\ The two plays are Tuesday night, March 21. Dr. Van to be staged on the 5th, 6th, 8th, Doren is the author of several and 12th of May. · books, the latest of which is a bi- · The program for the 6th a·n· nuaJ Sub-freshmen Weekend, as arranged by Assi8tant Secrt=tary, Frededc A. Wyatt, is as fol10ws: today. Dr. Fox said that the selection was made upon the recommenda- tion of a faculty committee con- sisting of Dea.n Charles F. F. Garis, Dr. Harold W. Blodgett and Mr. The first play was written by ography of Benjamin Franklin. Frederick A. Wyatt. Lewis will .succeed Thomas H Ralston, '40, of Brockton, Pa., who is now studying at St. Andrews on this annual international exchange 8 , 01 holarship, whieh provides room and board for the rec·ipient. Mrs. Condace :Stevenson, who upon \As an educator he was intere·st- seeing the :M:ountebanks production ed in bringing like-mindedmen into of \Rosmersholm\ decided to al- common a\ms,\ said Mr. Van low them -to be the first p!ayet·s Doren. \For instance, he once tried group to produce \A Private Ven- to bring men of learning through- tm,e.\ The latter play was written out the colonies into an asscciation by Dan Wickenden, Amherst, '35, in which they could pool their and .received the distinction of be- knowledge for the common good.\ ing the first play to be published in \Franklin was not, as is com- JOHN P. LEWIS the \Stage\ magazine. monly supposed, stingy and. frugal,\ Lewis will be the fifth Union College student to study ·in Scot- h F Cast !Vleets Author land under this exchange plan. works 0p e atU reS This is tb.e first attempt of the Otllers who have h·eld sclJOlarship Mountebanl~s to produce two plays have been George P. Haskell ' 37 · of Musical Pro,gra:m in the same night. Mrs. Stevenson:s Huron, N. D; John Wold '3 8 . play is so written that it is possi- Schenects,.dy, N. Y.; and Wallace I I b B d Ch • ble to produce it in early Nine- Baiter '40, Roche:;:ter, N. Y. Gee c u .. I an . I otr teenth Century form and on an- St. Andrews has annually sent Scheduled ·to Broadcast other night as a modern drama. one of its Sco·ttii:h students to I d The style that best meets with the study for a year at Union in ex- From Chapa on Mon ay audiences approval will be used change fQr an .American student in the production on May 12. The •ent abroad. At present, the Union The Union College Radio Worlt- - th · 1 o .cast met with Mrs. Stevenson on Coll ege-St. Andrews scholar is Ed- shop wm featul'e e muswa r- f th 11 On Its Monday nig-ht to discuss plans and Wa rd A. F. Jackman. Clark Beck- ganizations o e co ege b d t M d af ter on Wednesday night the first re- ett' Br ian S. 'I'. Simpson and An- half-hour roa cas on ay - M Th . 'II b n >tearsal was held. drew D ryburgh preceded Jackman. noon at 5:00 P. . IS WI e a - • f d t1' on• This wm be the first attempt ()n the speaker pointed out. \He was extravagant and generous and cared very little about money. His real wealth came because of the fact that his• real estate in Phila- delphia tripled in value while h() was in France aiding the Ameri- .can cause. He never accepted money from his many inventions. Friday 6:30 P. M.-Dinner 8:00 P. M -Informal evening at fraternity houses. Saturda~ 8:00 P. M.-Visits to class·es and laboratories. 10:00 A M -Daily Assembly 10:20 A. M.-Visits to classes and laboratories. 12:30 P. M.-Luncheon 1:45 P. M.-Busses leave Mem- orial Chapel for Genera.! Electric Company. 2:00 P. M.-Special scientific exhibits at \The House of Magic\ General Electric Company. 3:30 P. M.-5:30 P. M.~College buildings open for inspection 6:30 P. M.-Dinner 7:30 P. M.-Intra-mural boxing and wrestling 9:30 P. M.-Reception at Hale House Stmday 11:00 A. M. - Chapel Service. Preacher, Dean Rockwell Harmon Potter, Hartford Theological Seminary 12:30 P. M.-Dinner Hale House Reception During their visit to Union, the ~ub-freshmen, many of whom at- tend preparatory schools and are enjoying spring vacations at the present time, will be ~ed and quar- tered at the various fraternity houses. Th~y will be entertained at events ranging from the finals of the Intramural boxing and wres- tling tournament to a reception in Hale House. An attempt ·has ·been made this year to give the guests a true picture of the college and for this reason no exhibits or fancy displays have been arranged. They will be witnessing Union in it<> every day activities and will be treated in most cases as actual students. T he 1939-1940 St. Andrews scholar Qther in the ser1es o pro uc ~ h · · of John the part .o-f the Mountebanks to will be announced in May. under t e supervisiOn Sheehan, '24, whic'h have been present several. versions of the Oppenheim Cup Winner broadcast ov.er shortwave stati()nS same prodtLction. Lewl ·s, a major ln the Division of W2XAD d W2XAF The most an · The cast for \A Private Venture'' Soc · 1 al Studies, Is a graduate of the · t f th work•hop · recen program 0 e · ' is as follows: \His importance as a scientist lies not merely in his knack at in· venting but chiefly in taking many confused facts,. and, by a few ob- servations, clarifying the laws which govern their operation. He is responsible for most of the vo- cabulary of static electricity for he was not merely an observer of the fundamentals. \Franklin was a gay and witty person and nev-er lost his light- ness and gaiety. He had a cheerful personality even in his approach to science.\ Glee Club Travels To Great Barrington According to the program re- released by Mr. Wyatt, the pro- gram for tonight will be informal with the visitors given the privilege to \look around\ informally. They are expected to spend an evening with the fraternities which :;oct ns their hosts. If they choose, they may attend the cinema prog1·am which is presented by the Mounte- banks tonight in the Old Chapel Hudson Falls High School, where group was broadcast this past Mon- he was valedictorian of his class day evenin,g over station WGY. Martin-Harry Meserole, '41. Barclay-T. D. 0. Stevenson, '39. Kimball, '36,. Arranges First Official Trip To Massachusetts depicting the rise of the Amt>rica:1 film. Secretary's Office Open and active in many undergraduate The broadcast Monday afternoon activities. He bas continued his will be presented according to a high scholastic standing at Union continuity script prepared by Paul by maintainin·g a straight A_ aver- Mah<mey, '40. He has Included in age since his .entrance. Lew1s also this program parts for the college won the Op·penheim Cup, annually Glee Club, the band, and the dou- awarded to the freshman who ble quartet, selected from the Glee ranks the .highest in his class Club. Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh will scholastically for the first year. He also give a short talk as a part of has been on the Concordiensis edi-' this broad·cast. torial staff for two years and ls Broadcast fJ'Qm Chapel als.o the sec~eta.ry of the editorial Former broadcasts have been board of the \Idol.\ He was coun- given from the General ~lectric selor at the 1939 Freshman Camp. Company's downtown studios, but ·The Glee Club, the Choir, and this program, for purpos·es of fres·hmen and varsity de·batir:J?i· greater .ccnvenience to th~ great teams are also included in Lewis numbei of persons necessartly ·par- extra-curricular activities. He won ticipating, will be broa;dcast from hls numerals in freshman track the Memo-rial Chapel. Doctot·-Sheldon Evans, '40. Etheredge - Lon Barringer, '39. Tommy Haines-Jacob Van- Aernam,. '42. Fletcher - Joseph Russum, '41. Dr. Van Doren told how Benja- min Franklin invented bi-fcca:J glasses .in order \to learn French better by watching the lips of the people as they pronounced the words.\ He was near sighted an:d needed two pairs of glasses, one for long range and one for sho1t range vision. When he went to Osgood-David Wildei', '40. · Fiance, he evolved the bi-focal Challoner- Andrew Spezlali, lens so that he could see his com- '42. panions at dinners as wen as his O'Rourke - Herbert Grant, food. '.'l9. \He was the first man w·ho had a The cast for \A Grote><que :for· vision of the transatlantic civili- zation which has come about. Fifteen hundred years from .now Franklin will be much more high- ly regarded than he is at the pres\ ent time, because the people close to him will fade by comparison.\ November\ is as follows: Old Woman-Ann Quigley. Policetnan-Harold Hennrik- A group of 29 selected members of the Union Glee Club \'iii travel to Great Barrington, Mass. on Sunday to participate in a vesper service at the Great Barrington Congregational Church·. This trip has been arranged largely through the efforts of James Kimball, '36 who was manager of the Glee Club while an undergraduate here at Union. This trip will be the first engagement the Club has had to appear in the state of Ma8eachu- setts on an official hip represent· ing the college. The singers chosen to make this trip are, for the most part, mem- bers of the college choir, as the program at the church service will consist of choir music. College authorities have made the statement that those sub-fresh· men who are interested in inquir- ing for application information will be interviewed both totlay an-:1 tomorrow at the secretary's officP. The office will be open on tho fol- lowing hours: Today, 8-12 a, m.; 1-9 p. m.; tomon·ow, 8-12 a. m.; 3-il p. m.; final and Sunday, 10-11 a. m. by appointment at the Administra tion Building. The following freshmen will be guests for the weekend: Kenneth Abrams, Oceanside, L. I.; Robert Acker, Freeport, L. I.; Sava Acoutin, Cooperstown; Gary Alder- ton, Garden City, L. I.; Jack Bar- ton, Plymouth, N. H.; William Bar- nett, Rochester; Robert Betts, Bloomfield, N. J.; Ivan Bigelow, Ticonderoga; Frank Bird, Bloomr.- field, N. J.; William Bordmap, West Hartford, Conn.; Richard Bouton, Fultonville; Walter Bowie, Garden 0ity, L. I.; Harvey Boynton, Cold- brook; Robert Branch, Wi!limatic, Conn.; Walter Breed, Ticonderoga· Franci:o: Brennan, Queens,. L. I.; Richard Carnwrig;ht, East Rock- :lway, L. I.; Robert Carpenter, Ti- and is a·lso a charter member of The Radio Workshop inaugur- the \Player's Club\. When he ha:: ated Jts sez.les of broadc·asts on completed his undergraduate work January 24, w:hen a program was at Union, Lewls plans to continue given featuring the Union Colle~?e his studies at Harvard Law 'School. fraternities. This was presented m ----Ia---- the form of a skit, written ·by Ber- son, '42. Joe-Richard Day, '39. Sam-Rcger Fowler, '42. Old ~!an-Edwin Fitz, '40. Tommy-Bert+ard Krause, '39. Dr. Van Doren supplemented his address of Tuesday night by giving (Contin-ued on Page 4) Foxl M ale Propose nard Kra.use, '39. Since then, .sev- eral broadc·asts on varied subJects B d F t • I have ·been made, of whicll the rnost an es ava recent program, a dra'matization of an old Catskill legend' by James Shaw, '41, was judged sufficiently . High Sche>ol Musicians Would Pr.esent Campus Seethes and Heaves As Prognosticato,rs Choose Prom Band Several Public Concerts A tentative plan for the organi- zation of an annual summer band festival to be held during the first two weeks of July, has been drawn up, according to a letter sen_t to School Principals and SuperVisors of 1.\tusic by President Fox and Professor Chai\les T. Male, director of the Union band. The proposed band would be composed of ap- proximately fifty-five musicians, se- lected accord.ing to ability,. from the high school bands in Schenecta.dy and the surrounding cities. well done to have ·a record·ing made at the studios to be entered By JACK PIDLLIPS, '41 ~·---------~-- Rumors, hopeful rumors, dis- couraging rumors, but still only rumors. T()mmy Dorsey, Benny into a competition. Dr. Potter '95, to Deliver Goodman, Artie Shaw? Sure they are all g-oing to play at Junior Sunday Chapel Address Prom say-s Joe. Jinks to his one and only-can't miss it, greatest Dr. Rockwell H. Potter, '95, wiJI Prom Union will ever have. Nertz! speak at the Sunday chapel exer- Says Bill Ious, they never heard of cises in the Memorial Chapel. Dr. Union-we'll probably have Gerald Potter has had a long career since Gate and his \Rusty Hinges\ or· his graduation from Union College, Flip Shields and his \Gargling culminating in his appointment. as Goons.\. Armand entered the scene Dean of the Hartford TheologiCal and . quieted the prognosticatoi·s seminary in 1928. with the statement that Ina Ray Dr. Potter was born in Glenville, Hutton was leading all choices. N. Y., on October 1, 1874. He at- Said Armand \Ina and hel' Arnot- tended the local schools and en- ous. Amateurs have plenty on the tered Union in 1891. While here he ball. Did you ever see that se:icy was a member of the Chi Psi fra- sax. play-er in the front row? ternity. . . Whatcb me snake her.\ Why Ar• He studied for the mmtStry at mand! Wow! would, be an excellent choice for the Prom band-\Shell\ Jenkins has It that Jan Savitt would be the logical choice-Bob Walter do-esn't care who the committee signs, his girl talks so loudly and long he won't be able to hear the music anyway. Bob Saaf wants Dave Ap- pollon, not so much the music, but the girls. George Peck wants the prom committee to obtain Rudy Vallee Blld his \Connecticut Yan- kees\-George has heard of Rudy's fistic prowess and being a pugna- cious lad himself, he feels that after a few minutes of heckling he may be able to get Vallee to go a few rounds with htm and possibly disarrange the maestro's handsome features. Freddie Burns, chairman of the prom committee, carne in for his share-he waE; stopped on the campus the other day and se- verely chastised for allowing the committee to overrule hlm and sign a waltz band of andent vint- age plus the \Adirondack Hill- the Ya:le Divinity School, the Union A census of opinion among those Theological Seminary and fi~a!ly surrimnding my typewriter watch- was awarded the Bachelor of Dtvm- ing the clever and subtle thoughts ity degree by the Chicago Th~o- flow like a stagnant pool of water logical Seminary in 1898. Umon reveals astounding and terrifying College, Rutgers and Williams have results. Editor Pellettier says An- g iven him the degree of Doctor of dre KGstelanetz has it thumbs' billies\. A special bus will leave the Mem· orial Chapel at 1:00 P. M. Sunday, the the service in Great Barrington is scheduled for 5;00 P. M. The Congregational Church Choir will entertain the visiting singers at a supper, after which the Glee Club will return to the campus. ____ ,0 Civil Service Head Speaks in Chapel \The Civil Service is a means of recruiting for public service those best qualified to serve,\ said Miss Grace Reavy, president of the New (Contin'Ued on Page 4) ----0--- Idol to Appear March 31; Freshman Work Featured York State Civil Service Commis- The spring issue of the Idol will sion, in her Chapel address on appear on March 31 and will feature Thursday morning. the work of freshman writers. Miss Reavy explained the pur- The feature story will be by Ray- pose of the economic security used rnond Palazini, '42,. of Schenectady. in the civil service system. Robert Ritchie, '41, has contributed Miss Reavy in explaining the po:- a short essay. Many unpublished icy of giving civil service employes y:;~.rns of Dr. Paul Zahl's trip whin'h economic security said \we feel that were told to John Lewis are the the employees can give better serv- subject of the chief non-fiction ice if positions are not dependent story. A one act play, which is a on political conditions. The civil fantasy, has been specially written service is not merely an agency to for this issue by David Light. The give security to those people al- issue will also contain the usual ready in public office.\ Academic Recession. The ideal state, the speaker The book reviews will be entirely The band festival would resem- ble those already in operation throughout the mid-west during ~he summer. There would be daily re- hearsals from two o'clock to five o'clock in the afternoon, culminat- ing in two or three public concerts. Students will be expected to fur- nish their own solo instruments, but the college will provide the larger and m.ore unusual instru- ments. The college also would make the music library available for use by the festival. A guest conductor of national reputation may be invited for the final concert. The suggestion has been made that the band be taken to New York for one day to play at the Worldls Fair. Divinity. down. \Fruddie~' Tanner heard Glen A. P. wires just announced the From 1900 until 1928, Dr. Potter Gray has it in the bag - \Zip\ latest rumor to hit .the 'I'heta Delt was .tbe Rector of the First Church Linde berg doesn't care who plays. House - Jerome Van Deusen and of Christ in Hartford, Conn. He is but he .can hardly wait to exhibit his \Dusky Darkies,\ direct from a trustee of Mount Holyoke College his new dance steps! M. M. Enzer. Big Charlie's in Albany, have and is also connected with many siding Vlith the ragged-minded Hari been signed to play fo1· 25 bucks religious organizations. Kari, says that Charlie Barnett and a quart of gin per man. pointed out, should be composeJ written by freshmen The Idol has of enlightened politicians and en- put a new policy into force with lightened public administrators. regard to its boo!\ page In that The late Governor Cross, of Con- seven or eight books will be re- necticut felt this very keenly dur- viewed and two will be featured. ing his first term in office, in his Formerly, only two or three books relations with politicians ancl ad- were reviewed. The page will also ministrators. At that time he re· have \wider serviceability,\ ac- marked that he felt like 'a ceJJu- cording to John Lewis, because the loid mouse chased through hell by revie.ws will he \as up to date as an asbestos cat.' \ the current newspaper reviews.\



ac- ute are are in ·gas a eye of on set. for the to set con- at In- from is car- y\ or is tho- is par- cen- er is is ·of meas- \If I Har- joined, be at Union \Gen- I'd ncern- \has in home every two slight- wings. guinea s-o hear of the one of of their l\Ju.n\ offers ca- intel- pro-fes- in- re- ivision thou- pro- d. Its high- profes- to to THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MARCH 24 1 1939 Page 'Fhree Fencers Face Finals Tomorrow Boxers,. Wrestlers and Subfreshmen Among Capacity fb,rong $·-Ch_e_c_k-en-'ed_C_a,~e-er-~-- -a-rk_s_L_n_t~_a_m_u-ra-. ~-- -Ei_g_ht_W_· · -re-·st-le_r_s ---;-S_p_o_rt_s_S_tu-ff-- Exp_ ected to See ·Fifteen Contests £'1 \ l s· .V a· . 19.1''11A Advance fo :Finals -varnzva · znce r oun tng .zn · &Jq 1 w d d 'B t Ry JACK PEARSON $·-----------··· n e. neS :ay< ·QU S Of all the ink which has· been shed in favor of prosecuting the monopoly which the New Yorlt Yankees have set up in baseball, A thoasand followers of fisticaffs, grappl>ing, and the clash of .sporting steel, including 146 .sub-freshman visitors, will dangle fro111. the girders of Alumni Gymnasium tomor- row night to cheer and boo themselves hoarse over the big- gest intra-1nura:l event of the year. Ten boxers, fourteen wrestlers, and sir fencers will rrreet in the college· champion- ships in their respective divisions and weight classes. Union College has Elmer Oliphant of the tremendous crowd attending The final brackets of the intra- no one can be found who 1 oudly t h k bl f · I t advocates that similar measures be o t an , or · ame, or tts · n ra- the fights and called \Carnival mural wrestling tournament were mural Boxing and WresUing ·car- Night\ the most successful athletic reached by eight rnen Wednesday adopted to undermine Da:rtmouth's nival, which annually attracts au- event of the year. night. Bouts t•ang:ed from quick. reign over the Eastern Ivy League. drences of ft·om 500 to over 1,000 J<).•eshmen Win ·pins to long time-advantage con- This winter, in a quiet sort oi and occupies the most prominent Ft eshmen celebrated victory the tests. way, the athletes from the hills of .position in the late winter sports following year when they took the Probably the -C>litstanding ,contest Hanover have moved in at the top program. trophy in the closest tournament in. of the evening was that between• in the three most popular winter Twelve of the ·big nights have the history of the tourney. 1931 Sherry Wait, 1751..], and Art Davis, sports: namely, and to wit, basket- come and gone since \Ollie\ in- amassed 35 points, 1929 was second 179% in which Wait threw Davis: ·ball, hockey, and skiing .. Nor does augurated the occasion back in' with 31, 1930 was close behind with 'in the final secc>nd of the allotted: the Big Green record of suprem- 1924. The· tour.nament probably has 30 and the seniors were last, as eight minutes. , acy stop there. The football tell!m, a more checkered history than any usual, with only 16. Gold watch Jess Sherman, although hamp-· c9ached by the exacting Red Blaik, other ·athletic activity on the cain- charm gloves and medals were erect by a nose-bleed, made short· marched through Yale, Harvard, pus. More than once it has been awarded to contestants that year work of the game Barney O'Neil,· Brown, and Princeton among aband0rted because of lack of in- and President C. Alexander Rich- who scaled at 134'h pounds. Sher-' others before the hegira of Har- terest, but there have also been mond acted as honorary referee. man, who weighed 130, threw his rington \Heavenly\ Gates, the times when the athletic depart-· The 1927 brawls were held on. opponent in one minute and forty blocking back, Then they ran The ;boxing headliners of the • evening will see two heavyweight T , sophom0res, Jim Bothwe11, Psi u, ·OUrnament Progu;lm and Leo McCarthy, Neutral, meet WI'estlinll' with the latter at a fifteen pound Starting at 7:30 P. M. adva:ntag.e; and Nate Paul of the ~I<·Carlii<'Y, 125 ve. M<:>atl,125 Phi Sigma Delta House defend his Hherman, 130 v \· Thomas, 134 championship in the 145-:1:55 pound lleer, lH vs. Santoro, 143 Hender::;ou, 156 v .::;. LU\'Vl'f:Hce, 1-18 group against the fresh cha:l>lenger Krull, 167 v s. GTilfith. Hl6 from- South College, BiU Ha-rkness, I!mns, 180 v s. • Wait, 175 High points as the crush and crawl ~herma11, 197 v s. Gol<lhlatt, 191 finalists raffle off the laurels are Fencing expected when, in the 125435 pound St~ing at 8:15 P. M. tfit J S Fotls- Baka:l v s. :\lelo ou ·, . ess herman, 1937 chan1- Sa!Jn•-1-'reire v s Gertz pion, and half-back Billy Thomas, · (defe;nling champion) who has turned from two years' Epee--Herman v: s. , Kim.mey ment fervently wished that more April 9. seconds. afoul of Cornell's. great line, and sea:ts could be made available. The five champions' who success- Billy Thomas, at 134, put on a were forced to share the top rung Mslte All Athletes fully defended their crowns on the good bout with Paul Dwyer, 126, with the Red horde. The impres· night of March 27, 1928 were \pop-. w 1 ·nn 1 ·ng w 1 \th a 4 ··.02 t 1 ·me advatt- sion .persists here also that last The establishment of champion- ship ·events in intramural athletics ular victors\ according to \The Con- tage. Paul Santoro advanced into spring's championship baseball nine f h · k cordiensis\ reporter. There were the finals of t-h~ 135-45 p<>und in the Eastern Intercollegiate was oae o t e first steps ta en ~ ~ several draws that year, but F. D. class on a d·efault ft•om Dud League emanated from Hanover. by the ambitious Oliphant in his successes in the ring to the mat (de!etulmg ·\harnpwn) go to work on -one another, and . Boxing Finals when the fraternal strife between St~rtmg at 8:30 P. :1\'J:. crusade to \make every man an Brown's \-popular victory\ over• Holmes caused by a hockey in- Jinx Shattered , athlete.\ He -came to Union from two opponents in separate divi- jury. . ·West Point where he had been. an sions whom he \out-boxed and out- Avery Beer, 144, wrestled well Somebody ought to call the sit- outstanding athlete. He had played hit\ was the outstanding accom-· to beat Bob Muther, 144, by a time uation to the attention of Mr. on the all-star football team of his p!ishment. advantage. After t.it'ing Arnie Har- Thurman Arnold who is ·supposed day and made an immediate hit A \Dempsey boxer\ was the fea- wood and himself out badly, Dick to investigate such trusts for the with every Dutchman. Response to ture of the 1929 show which was Griffith managed to accumulate a U. S. Department of Justice. Mr. the young director's first call for won again by a freshman class time advantage. Arnold was an esteemed professor L Sh · d s G R.etlly, 131 v s, Leversee, 13~ ee . erman an · tew oldblatt, \Vanlwell 144 v s. 8antee, 139 two Phi Sig Delt yearlings, gets Harkness: 154 v s. Paul. 155 under way in the heavyweight di- :llauri~llo, 163 v s. Killian, lG~ vision. Both\ ell, 176 v s. :\1eCa·rthy, 187 F h S . fighters was meager and he almost with the seniors again last. Charles' Neither of the two heavyweight in the Yale Law School before he Leversee Favored Campus prognosticators, sudden- ly flourshing in at! shapes and sizes, forecast little trouble for de- fendmg champ Beecher Leversee, Lambda (.\hi who -reached the finals by pound out a hard-f<'JUght deci- sion over Ken Reynolds of the Kappa Alpha Lodge, when he en- counters Ned Reilly, Beta repre- sentative, who won on a foul from C.:huck Vola earlier in the com- petition. Slugging Paul Santee of .k-'hi Delta Theta, who has po]fshed off Louis Semenoff and Allen Or- ton with a knockout apiece, IS favored to score again from Bos- ton's own Bill Wardwell who will sport the colors of Delta U .. Sal Mauriello, second year Neutral who did a cool job of applying a tech- nical KO to Bob Davis, and Bob Ktllian, Beta who danced to vic-· tory over Don Dingman, are fig- ut ed close in the 155-165 class, with Killian seeming to be given a slight edge. ,res men uppor+ Teams abandoned the scheme which had· Hansen, '30, won both the heavy- matches produced as keen compe-: took his present post. The indigni- come to hl ·m 1 ·n the fa·ll of 1923. weight boxing and wrestling titles titian as expected. In the first, in ties which have been heaped on •Freshmen continued to support Y 1 t d · t their spring sports teams in an en- Fortunately, the interest manifest and was publicized as a second which both boys 'i\'ere at 197, Lee a e h eamsh urmg he triumphal thusiastic manner yestet-day when in those days in tracl{ events was Dempsey \Campus Sportlight\ by Sherman pinned Bundy Shaw in mar~ dof t e Hanover Indians are 15 men reported to the organiza- sufficient to enable Oliphant to put Milton M. Enzer, made its last ap- four mintues, and second, Stew myna , The jinx of the Yale Bowl tion meeting of the yearlings ten- together an attractive progt·am in pearance in .the same issue. which Goldblatt felled Dick Kearns at the l~ Dartmouth football teams was n-is team. the spring of 1924. (Continued on Page 4) 6:50 mark. s uttered and underlined heavily. Several of the men who have Originally scheauled for March Old Blue instructor Arnold could b k , 31, the da-te was changed at the Q S R h ffi save a lot of further embarrass- een wor tng out with the varsity am:pus t t . • t . N H squad in the gym are considered laat minute because it conflicted . eers orecas e . znners men m ew aven by cracking d t . Th d w!'th a pet·formance of the Mus!·- down on the Dartmouth monopoly. goo · rna enaL ey are expecte THE CONCORDIENSIS Y I th . t . . k cal Club. The first \carnival night\ · .pr-esents the following prognostications of a e au art ties might even con- a commence more mten.s1ve wor ·-. leading student sports writers. It .regrets that it was unable to con tad sider that he had earned his \Y\ outs immediately in preparation was held Tuesday evening, April 1, J S 'th f ts d't f th' in life. for their schedule which calls for 1924, and was judged a complete erry mt • or·mer spor e 1 or o · lS ·paper, :at least three matches. Director success. The final outcome of the ~ More likely solution will come Hal Wittner has not released the inter-class competition has not 1> .;!l next June when President Martin schedule as yet, but reports the list- been decided to this day, since, \' ~ ~ <II Hopkins distributes diplomas to ing. of three and possibly five when last mentioned in \The Con- .! ~ ~ .!1: ~ »artmouth's class of 1939. Among matches. cordiensis,\ handball matches were ] ~ ~ \' -=: ·~ ~ \' the bright stars of '39 are Bob still to •be played off. However, at .s:: c ~ :t ~a p, 0 McLeod, All-American football hack the last reckoning, the class of \\ 'S ! ,~ -=: ~ and all-star guard in tlte Eastern Bothwell Fights Again ---01---- Freshman BaseJ:.all Coach Hal Wittner is issuing a second call for candidate pitchers ;and catchers for the freshman base ball nine. Although several men have re- '. ported in the hurling department, In the heavy set-to Bothwell is Wittner would like te> have all remembered for flooring non-de- freshmen who have had any mound fending Champ Jake Amazon of ex:.perience at all report to him. the 165-175 division six times last He would also like to have any year before he was forced to quit other freshmen who are interested because of a cut head. McCarthy in baseball report to him at their is a new-comer to the college ring., earliest convenience in the gym- 1927 was leading the parade with ~ t;;l '-' o :=- ~8 Intercollegiate Basketball League; 56 points. §i ..c.i g .g ~ .§ o l!l Dick Durrance, the chunky skier First Tourney Events BOXING (l:] al .., 00 ~ ;13 ~ e':: from Florida who at one time or Leversee vs. Reilly .... ,Leversee Leversee Lever-see Leversee another has held every individual Events in this first tourney in- Wardwell vs. Santee .... Santee Wardwell Sante-e Santee skiing championship in the U. S.; eluded handball, running, relay Paul vs, Harkness ...... Paul Harkness Paul Paul Joe Cottone, fleet football back and racing, jumping, shot put, gymnas- Mauriello vs. Killian .... Killian Killian Killian Mauriello forward on the basketball team; tics, tug of war, medicine ball race, Bothwell vs. McCarthy .. Bothwell Bothwell Mc'Carthy Bothwell Colby Howe, the halfback who ran and fence vaulting. George Foote WRESTLING like a runaway locomotive; the be- donated a cup to the class which McCartney vs. Mead .... McCartney McCartney Mc'Cartney McCartney spectacled skier, Johnny Litchfield; emerged victorious. Sherman vs. Thomas ... Sherman Sherman 8herooan Thomas Greg Zitrides, the fiery football The class of 1927 came out on t th Santoro vs. Beer , ....... Beer Beer Beer Santoro guard and 165 pound boxer; Goding, op of e second annual tourney, Henderson vs. Lawrence.Henderson Henderson Henderson Henderson the hockey goalie; Roger Dudis held April 3, 1925. Dick Harlow, Krull vs. Griffith ....... Krull Krull Krull Krull \nd Joe Batchelder, all-star basket- then football coach at Colgate, later Burns vs. Wait , ........ Burns Burns Burns Burns ball players and Captain Chivers, ----o Northwestern and now at Harvard, Goldblatt vs. Sherman .. Goldblatt Sherman Goldblatt Goldblatt WRESTLERS, B()XERS, refereed the boxing and the col- (Continued on Page 4) Neither fighter has had any pre- nasium. vious competition this year. Harlt- ness looked good in his technical over Dave Clowe, but last Monday· had much greater difficulty in eking out a dicision against a scrappy Ed Gagen of Psi U. Paul made short work of Beal Marks in his one previous bout. McCartney, Nie11.d Same Weight An interesting scrap is expected in the first mat battle between Noble McCartney, Alpha Delt soph, and K A's Talbot Mead, both of whom weighed in at 125. McCart- ney, who has lost weight in the course of a dozen months, last year defeated Sherman for the 125-135 crown. Tht' dopesters are having a hard time calling the Avery Beer, South College-Paul Santoro, Lambda Chi bout. Don Henderson, who has done an admirable piece of work for Chi Psi thu far, is heavily favored over Howie Lawrance, Psi Sigma Kappa frosh. J·ohn Krull is expected to defend his title in the 15&-174 pound crowd against Dicit Griffith, another Phi Delt. A de- fense is again looked for from last last year's victor in the 174-186 class when Fred Burns of Theta Delta t;!hi meets up with Sherry Wait, Chi Psi, of the class of '42. FENCERS ATTENTION! lege band boomed out \I Love You Truly\ from its perch on the run-· NOTICE All wrestling contestants' are re- · ning track. All freshmen interested in be- quested to report prom],ltly at 7:30 In 1926, the days when sport . d'd t ger f r rheliLn~~t~e~~ t~: 1:e~r!~~~~:. ~~~~r::~ :::~:~:::~:t:~~::so~~~ ~;~E~t~r~~~t~~=iy:1:~~~ ~ 0 s~e All contestants in fencing are l'equested to be prepared to com- pete in their bouts• immediately following the wrestling matches- approximately 8:15 p. m, All boxing finalists are requested to report at the timer'.s bench be- side the boxing ring at 8:30 p. m. sharp. CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY Inc .. 1858 Hambur9 St. PH 0 N E 2·11 9 1 6 No writhe~ no iig, no squirm There was a young fellow named Titus Whose wiggles and squirms did delight us; But our pap~r report.r He now wears Arrow shorts And no more does he dance like St. Vit11sl Gazette Press ARROW SHORTS have no chafing center seam . . . they're roomier ••• and San· forized-Shrunk, fabric shrinkage less than 1 %· Get yours today. 633 Sta.te St. 226 Not+ Ter. 204 Union St. 1009 Chrisler Ave. Printing PHONE 6·3456 65c: up. Tops, SOc • c'·-···-··-\. Are Ycto A Jitterbug Perforce? cmo Rumor has it that tight, creeping, pinching sho.rts are largely responsible for jitterbug gyrations. Settle back m' hearties into a comfort- able pair of A:rrow Shorts, no seams to bi';ld an.d more room to park. Arrows are expertly ~adored of durab!e fabrics, and completely Sanfor- Ized Shrunk (fabnc shrinkage less than Io/o). Shorts. 65c Tops •••• 50c ARR0/1/ UNDERWEAR

Page F()tn' THE CONCORDiENSIS, FRIDAY, MARCH 24, 1939 Sub-Freshmen Here for Weekend CALENDA:R IN THE MAIL . Wary Thief Returns Today To the Editor: . Tests to Unwary Prof 8:00 p. m.-Cinema ProgFam- The German Infi uence, Old Chapel. The efforts of Robert \The Bird\ Saaf to shift the burden of author- ·ship of his swan-song upon other. l Continued rrom Page 1l conde1ago; Burr Chase, Madison, N. J .; Lane Christ, Rochester; Aaron Cohen, Schenectady; Arthur Cohen, Elizabeth, N. J.; Rebert Cbocb., 'Wilbraham, Mass.; D~ma!d. Cross, J<Jhnstown.; Thomas Crowell. r.Ianlla,sct, L. I.; Robert Dal,e. Sar- atoga. Springs; Philip DeLang, Glens ·Falls; Richard Denton, El- mira·; Erwin Doyne, Bayonne, N.J.; John Duford, Poland; Richard Engle, Bloomfield, N. J.; Wel.ls Farnsworth, Hartford, Conn.; Wll- liam Farrell, Glens Falls; Morton Feinman,. Brooklyn; Everett Fitz- gerald, Burlington, Vt.; Norman Fox, South Byfield, Mass.; Harold Friedman, Albany; Harley Fulton, Cherry Valley; Stephen Gallaher, Freeport, L. I.; Morton Gelby, BrooklFn; Ernest Gloeckner, Wa- tervliet; W. Earl Goodrich, Albany! Ha·rold Go o dye a r, Rutherford, Saturday .shoulders than his own would be 10 co m.-D:l.ily Assembly- amusing if it weren't so .pathetic. ~r. ~·. L. Bronner, Chairmah· 1:1he awkwardness. and inelegance Divis1on of Social studies, Me- ·of Mr. Saaf's verse is exceeded only by that of his prose. He revels in moria! Chapel. mispetlings '(cf., \Kreuger\ :for 7:30 p. m.-Intramuml boxing \Krueger\-line No. 2 of his let-. wrc,;tling and fen ring finals. tel\i' and run-on sentences tcf., line. Almnni Gymnasium. •No. 6 of his .Jetter). · Sunday · Mr. Saaf is a ·rare hird indeed 11:00 a. m.-Sunday Chapel- to try to assign his makeshift com- . Dr. Rockwell Harmon Potter, ::positions to literary artists more,. • 95 , Dean of the Hartford ·accomplished than himseJ.f. Fie!,· :for shame! Theolog.ical Seminary, Preach- · Cordially yours, in hate, er. Memorial Chapel. : James C. Wade .and 3:00 p. m.-Empire State Town ; John M. Malone. Meeting of the Air - Old Chapel. ·1.00 p. m.-Orga.n Recital-Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh-Memorial Chapel. Monday Free Tuesday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly- Dr. Allan G. Stockdale, Head of the Speaker's Burea:u, Na- tional Association of Manu- facturers, Memorial Chapel. 2:30 p. m. - Record Concert- Memorial Chapel. ' To the Editor: Checkered Career :Marks Carni·val N. J .. ; Edward Green, Briarcliff Manor; Stanley Green, New York City; Donald Greenberg, New Yorlt City; .Solomon Greenberg, Albany; ·Frank Grimes, Ticonderoga; Ralph Grover, Plattsburg; Wilson Guern- sey, Poughl{eepsie; Alfred Haas, Hasbr~uck Heights. N. J.; John Hawkins, Albany; F. L. Harper, Ge- neva; John Hay, Hudson Falls; Ralph Hearst, Rochester; Robert Hayner, Stillwater; John Hoffman, Deerfield. Mass.; Daniel Holley, Hudson Falls; Robert Harton, Sen- eca Fa.lls; Hem-,. Howe, Rochester; Al Howland, Hudson Falls; Ralph Hut·st, Rochester; Robert Jacoby, Syracl.lse; Stanley Jordan, Jersey City, N. J.; Adolph Jung, Glovers\ ville; William Kelly, Albany; Thad- deus Kosinski. Albany; William Kra.rnrn, Albany; Eugene Kregier. Pollgh.lteepsie; Paul Kummer, Bloomfield, N. J.; Wilbur Larkin, Plainfield, N. J.; Arthur LaRoche, Binghamton; Richard Lent, New Paltz; Jack Lear, Albany; Joseph Ledden, Albany; Leon Levine, Pittsfield, Mass.; Martin Lewin, Al- bany: Robert Mason, East Rock- away, L. I.; Frank Matske, Lyn- bJoo<Jk, L. I.; Donald Macomber, Fai rpot·t; Charles MacCulloch, Al- bany; John Mahoney, Gloversville; Robed :Marsh. Bloomfield, N. J.; Richard Marvin, Troy; T. H. Mc- Grail. Albany; Stuart Miller, Wat- kin.s Glen; H. M. Messenger, El- mira; George Mitchell. Bloomfield. N.J.: Ransom Micks, Schenectady; Rlcha.rd Mitchell, Poughkeepsie; Hare! d Mooney. Montpelier, Vt.; William Mosher, Hudson Falls; Al- fred Moskowitz, Schenectady; Wil- liam Motisher, Albany; Walter Neals, Troy·; Robert Nemeroff, Newburgh; Donald Newman, Wa- tertown; Richard Nichols, Lake- ville, Conn.; Warren Nafis, Lyn- brook, L. I.; Robert O'Connor, Holyoke. Mass.; John O'Brien, Poughkeepsie; Richard Paland, Al- bany; Boris Paul, Troy; Raymond Prell, Blue Mountain Lake; James Purdy, Scarsdale; Willard Quini, Ro·chester; Henry Rappuhn. Great Neclt. L. !..; John Reynolds, Elmira; Vernon Rising, Rochester; Warren Til:xon, Mt. Herman, Mass.; Ray- mond Rogers, Alexandria Bay; Da:vid Rosenblum, Newburgh ; Jamt>s Ruoff, Jamestown; Edward Soe h <J n g a I I a, Tarrytown; James Sc hongalla, Tarrytown; R o b e r t Seymour, Cobleskill: Walter Sein, McK<Jwnsville; Irving Schulsman, Bloornfield, N. J.; Peter Sharpe, Al- bany; Douglas Slingerland, Sche- nectady; Arthur Smith, Elmira; Philip Smith, Elmira; Harry Sny- der, Mt. Hermon, Mass.; Gilbert Sny!Ler, Glens Falls; Edward Stark- weather, Albany; John Thompson, Nutl-ey, N. J.; Carson Thompson, Amsterdam; Charles Thurston, Yonkers; Morris Timson, Plain- field, N. J.; Granger Tripp, Mt. Kisco: Willis Trombltoy, Ticonder- Just a few days ago there took place in Europe a most signi·ficant · change in the status quo of ·Czecho· slovakia. I am referring to Hitler's rape of the brave little country of the Czechs and Slovaks, to Hitler's new role of \protector\ over a people tl~at need no protection (ex- cept against him). In reality Hit- ler is not a protector; he is a s!.avemaster, squelching whatever spirit the people have, crushing out with b1·ute and barbaric force all h<Jpes of civic and domestic lib- erty, and cunningly scheming to subjugate and torment these ·peo-· ple beyond the limits of human en- d m ance. Already he is making ruthless preparations for further conquests, for further tbreats to the DOUW F. BEEKMAN Gasoline - Brake Service lJ. S, Tires - Motor Tune-up Ex:ides - Lubrication Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 60 I UNION ST. Open Until II P.M. PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F BURNS ! Continued frmn Page 3) 1 eported the fights. 'The account of the wrestling matches consisted chietly of a weird tale of a bout •between Don Notman. '30, and Mel Hawley, '29. Hawley's first move ,vas to th1 ow Not man onto the judges' table and Notman retali· >ted by sliding his opponent under the timers' bench. Publicity trumpets blared vigor- ously in 1936 and attracted 577 Jpectatol s to the revival of the tournament. \Concoidy\ writers ignored the fact that there had been any preceding tourneys and dubbed the affair \the first annual.\ Roger and Jesse Sherman met for •he Eghtweight wrestling crown 1nd young Jesse won out. Ray Lewis and Hank Clay took she!~ lackings in the finals of the box- ing. An entire pag-e ballyhooed the 1937 affair n.nd resulted in raising the attendance to 1000. Asked to name the highlight of :ast year's battles, Athletic Direc- tor Hal Wittner agreed that the Bothwell - Amazon boxing fracas was one of the standout matches in the entire history of the tourna- ments. Tomorrow night the 13th annual Union College Intramural tourna- ment will be run off in the usual place. Sixteen candidates will dis- play their talents. oga; Alvah Underwood, Easthamp- ton Mass.; John VanOst, Mt. Her- man, Mass.; Hei\man Vener, Sche- nectady; Hartley Vestry, Alexan- dria Bay; Richard Vinick, Schenec- tady, William Waddell, North Creek; Robert Warren, Schenec- tady; William Wells, Glens Falls; Kenneth Weiss, Bloomfield, N. J.; Marvin Weltman, Schenectady; Kenneth West, Bloomfield, N. J.; Stewart Wilber, Schenevus; Don- ald Wray, Rochester; Norman Wrubel, Brooklyn. democratic way of·livlng! No na- tion is safe-not even our own Onited States. Yet, in spite of what is going on in Europe, what is the reaction of us at Union? To put it bluntly, there is no reaction. It is true that Jome of us a.re inter~jsted enough to read about and follow every de- tail and every move concerning the in'ternational turmoil in Europe, but most of us just scan the head- Lines and turn to the comics and the sports page. Most of us are just too lazy to care; many of us don't care at all. Not infrequently [ hear comments that we live in America ancl that what happens to Europe is no concern of ours. Men of Union, what is happening novv in Europe is of the utmost im- portance to every American citi- zen, including us. Democracy is be- ing threatened everywhere and dic- t.ator;;;hip is growing stronger day by day. In the not-too-distant fu- ture, our own democratic way of living and ideals may be threat- ened. We must be prepared for that future! But we cannot be pre- pared if we are indifferent, apa- thetic, and uninformed. We must fight for our democratic ideals now, by studying and analyzing the changing international situa- tion day by day, and by advancing <Jur democratic ideals at every op- portunity. If we do this now, we may not have to fight later-with b!ood. Let's get rid of our apathy; let's pitch in now and do our part for freedom by keeping ourselves informed. Ladislav Dejnoz!ta. Dress Shirts Expertly Done AMERICAN A·l LAUNDRY Fh. 4-3166 1030 Barrett St. CLOVERLAND CREAMERY FOR PROMPl SERVICE Phone 6-8104 919 State St. We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests JAMES RESTAURANT 426 State St. LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadwcay Phones 4·3364, 4m3365 VARSITY PIPES SOLD EXCLUSIVELY at UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE and The conniving thief who vis- ited Hale House, a cloakroom, ·a textbook and an unwary instruc- tor has repented and ·returned the set of uncorrected S.S. 10 vaper~ to Mr. McGuire. The thief who made the \snatch\ re- turned the papers to Mr. Mc- Guire's mailbox in South Col- lege last nig;ht while the la.t- ter was in Hale House eating dinner. Whether the ·burning and vindictive account of the crime which appea.red in the last issue of \The Concordiensis\ ·caused the th:ef to suffer from a guilty conscience, is not as yet ·known. Spo·rts Stuff ( Col'ltlnUed from Page 2) ----01---- Fourth Mountebanks Films In Old Chapel 1·o·night The fourth film in t11e Mounte- banks cinema series, demonstrat- ing the rise and development of the film industry in America, will be shown tonight at 8 o'clock in the Old Chapel. The films shown will be demonstrations of the Ger- man influence on American films following the World War. Tonight's program will feature two films. The first, \Hands is a compromise between the purely .abstract film and the realistic movie with a plot. The second film, \Sunrise has a well known cast among whom are George O'Brien, Janet Gaynor, and .r. Farrell Mac- donald. Sound effects will be used in this evening's program. Restaurant-Tap ll.oom-Delleatessen GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR Something Different ROMAN OFF'S 224 Nott Terrace For that 11 p. m. snack I(osher Sandwich Healthful All Year 'Round FRO-JOY ICE CREAM NOW IN FREIHOFERS BREAD :.; CAKE :-: ROLLS Daily Delivery Direct to Your .Home TEL. 8422! SUITS CLEANED PRESSED TWO SUITS Cleaned and Pressed 8 :-~: 93c Call for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ G&~ CLEANERS , DYERS 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 J. S. HANDELMAN QUALITY GROCERIES and MEATS Fresh Fruits & Vegetables Daily Fresh Butter and Eggs FREE DELIVERY Phone 6-60 l b 920 State St. UNION Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Qualify Service Satisfaction\ 598 B'way - For Better V lllues Phone 6-2351 for daily delivery COLORS ELECTRICAL WORKS 2()6 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union St. U p·to·the·minute shops are ·featur• ing the new Varsity Pipes- in chip· proof, crack-proof colors of your school! These colors, in permanent plastics, are bonded around a bowl of genuine ltalia n briar, properly .aged to give .perfect, bitcless smok· i11g joy. Here's a real campus classic - a sleek; smooth·smoking beauty you'll be proud to own. See it - i iiii~iiiii,;i....,__..!.;!!£~'l:,~~~~~~~---......,\loday at yo11r favorite dealer! Slightly less than artual si:e. ONE DOLLAR 'Z -51 1 VoL~ 'H. I Wir As A· tNew< Direc Accc Be!i humat 19311,\ be me ·ing'' liber~ 1 appoi1 .Tr., o the c• hlg 0 Laure last y· l~-:1 I !~'lent Ll OX. S IIm·be laill c co!leg ctep cerns. \He t~e r: I evea probl< seen I frienc appre \W: plate sage qualii tion ' ous I to sa jectiv prese view. but i .3. vi worlc Mr dent hew of tl piesE ~ng 1 Divir Semi threE was greg1 N. J ing .t men! pre a• La WI p1ep He ya.n was soci~ the M1 ex:pe p!oyc Cam te·n Oi fres· awa nua: ars a s of t the tlin1 eve1 to t piOl T fror of I nato bre· at ha.v spe: a < tha dice A legc Ge1 It t.he cis1 bro pre 'I .exc tal pre th€

an.d the to as A on to be to ace is meas- to be ab- loop nten.ds as the other be- acid other Ed bh Dr. prob- \cyclo to in wa- s<!lt- salt is of be It is is Her- solu- hydro -hydro- d other dis- these wheth- place ply dis- water. Peter The which of wa- how s take of time and St. 4-7445 ley V .:~lues a.2111 for daily ·featur• chip- your a bowl smok· classic beauty ee it- AR • John M. Brown Speaks Here ,, Tomorrow 'Z -511 • Sophomores Will Take Exams J Vol. LXli., No. 45 UNION COLI.EGE, SCHENECII'ADY, N. Y., TUE~DAY, MARCH 28, 1939 PRICE FIVE CENTS 'H. R. Houghton Wins Appo;intment As New Chaplain Arrives Here August 1 Ea~rly I niti ati:on Vcrted by Council .Charlie Barnet Signed By (ommiittee As Prom Band; Ticket and Booth Policyt Decorations Also Set Hell Week Abolished At Union Seminary 1:-.lewcomer to Teach Course, Direct Chapel, and Procier, According to Dr. Fox ;1 nterfratern i.ty Group, Meeting with Alumni, Passes New Measures Prom Maestro Admissions WiU Sell at $6 a,nd $7 Barnet's Orchestra, Now at the Paramount, Has Possible Dartmouth, Princeton Dates; Broadcasts; Records for Victor Bluebird Believing that \religion is a vital h. uman interest in the world of 1939,\ and that \no mi~sion field to be lllOI·e challenging and promis- ·ing'• than the chaplainship of a liber~l at ts college, Union today appointed Herbert R. Houghton, .Tr., of Mamaroneck, chaplain of the college with duties ccmmenc- i<tg on August 1, to succeed H. Laurence Achilles, who resigned last year. Ic~ making pub!ic tlte anhounce- t~<ent of the appointment, President· vox: ssid: \In the appointment of· IIe:·bert R. Houghton, J-r., as Chap- laill of Union C'ollege I think the college has made an important c\tep .forward in its religious con- cerns. HEEBERT R. HOUGHTON Sopho:more Exam Listed for Apr. 20 Na-tional Competiticn Compulsory for Class Anncunces Dean's Office '·He i3 a young man, coming with the r<lnk of instructor. His record r eveals an under standing of the problems of religion as they are seen by modern young men and his friendly p€rsonality is likely to be The Dean's Office issued the fol- appreciated by all of us. lowing communication yesterday: Course Exj)lained The National Cooperative Sopho- \'iNhile his course will contem- more :Examinations for the Cla>s plate the religious and ethical mes- of 194-L will be held Thursday, April· sage of the Bible, and its literary 20. 'Th.ey require two sessions. the quality. a large amount of atten- first beginn:ng at 9 h. M., the ser.- tion \ iii be given to modern religi- ond at !:30 P.M. 'The exotmination.; ous tlent!s .. It is hardly necessaiy will be held in the lecture room of to say that the course will be ob- the Cllleiltistry Laboratory. Sopho-· jective in approach, with a fa.ir mor·es v;..Jll not attend any other presentation of ·diffetent points of. class ex:et·cises on that cay. All Sophomores ate required to view. It is not a plopaganda course, ta:ke t te examinations. The re~>nlts but it does assume tila t religion i:> .3. vit:ll human mterest in the. will b~come a part of the colleg~ world of 1939.\ I ecord of each student. A fee will Mr. Houghton win also be resi- be .charged for taking the exami· dent proctor of Olygym Hall, and nat~ons at any later date. he will take care of the formalities Soiih()mores To Get 'Profile' of the Merr_ori:ll Chapel. He is at After th.c papers at·e scored, each present completing his work lead- student will receive a profile on ;ng to the degree of Bachelor of ,'Yhieh hE rnav see how his own per- Divinity at the Union Theological forma nee compares with students Seminary where he has studied for in .,ther colleges as well as with three years. During this time he ,~:emb-ers of his own class at Union. was student assistant at the Con- ThLs '\\ill provide him an opportu- gregational Church, Glen Ridge, nity t~ cEtimate both his strengths N. J , for one year, and the follow- a11d \ves.knesses, ing two years at the Union Settle- Students need not bring pencil or ment, New York City, and visiting paper, as the machine s~nring an- preacher at The Storm King School, swer sheets and electrograpllic Lawrenceville School, and other pencils will be used. These will be pi eparatm y schools. provided by the proctors a~ the He was g1aduated from Wesle- Ume ()f the examinations. ya.n University in 1935, where he Students not only need not but was president of the Christian Ai3- should not attempt to prepare fol sociation, the college glee club, and these excaminations. Their chief the college choir. purpO<se is to measure one's ztore Mr. Houghton has had extensive of petrnanent knowledge, 110t n ex:perience in camping. He was em- tempora1y amount which might be played in various capacities at gaineod fr<Jm an intensive review Camp Sloane, Lakeville, Conn., for imme·diately preceding the P.J<nmi- te·n summers. natio1:1s. C. F. GARIS. Peace Again Reigns-Sub-freshmen Return Home After Hectic Week-end CHARLIE BARNET Announce Program For .Block ·u~ Day Team Captains to Receive Varsity Athletic Awards, Solley Will Give Address Charlie Barnet and his fifteen piece orchestra, now ])lay- ing a two-week engagement at the Paramount Theatre in New York, were contracted this morning by the Junior Prom Committee to play at its 1\Iay 12 dance. The committee has announced that prom tickets will sell at $7.00 with a one dol- lar reduction until a week before the function. Decorations will follow a \Sol:lth Sea Island\ theme. ~ ~-Bai net and his troupe will arrive<$> at Union shortly after a lengthy booking in Boston, during which :w will make several recordings for victor Bluebird records. The or- ~he;;tia, whcse co!leglate following Is Ieported to be on the upswing, has possible dates at Princeton, Dartmouth, and other smaller schools this spring. He will return .o New York June 1 for an en- gagement at the Hotel Lincoln, ,yhose ownei·, a Mrs. Cramer, has .blazoned Barnet as \a second Artie Show.\ \The Cornell Widow\ car- ried the compatison of the two band, a 8tep further by declaring, \He \Barnet) recently revived his personnel and now has a band with a Ji.ft and power that puts even Artie .Shaw'.:; great band to shame.\ Charlie Barnet pla;)'s both alto and tenor saxophone in his own right, and is billed as \the new king of the saxophone.\ He will bring his entire orchestra to Union plus Judy Ellington, his songstress, whom the committee has been careful to specifically stipulate in the contract. Booth Rental Covers Two-Way Fumitme Transportation Ticltets will go on sale Monday,~ April 17, under the direction of 'Ernest Bodenstab and Merlin Fay, at the $6 rate. On May 6 the price will be boosted to $7. Booths will be rented this year for $20, which '!'he double assembly program for will include transportation for t:he first annual \Block u Day\ ·furniture to and from the gym- Regarding the abolition of \hell · · 1 f th 1938 which is schedu!ed for Thursda'' nasmm, revis on o e ar- week\ Dr. Fox said that the college ' · h 'd d 1 Barnet\s band has played at the Pa1·amount Grill in New York, at the New Kenmore in Albany, at the Park Central Hotel in New York, and at the Glen Island Casino. His music has been featured on the CBS,. NBC, and Mutual radio net- works. He has also rec<Jrded for Brunswick and Victor. Some of the best selling of these records are \Albany \Sing Baby Sing,\ and \It's Love I'm After.\ a .nil Friday mornings was outlined rangement whic prov1 e for on y is rendered ridiculous by the pranks· · Ch k f in a s·tatement by David L. Yunich, one-way carrymg. ec s or which pledges have formerly been h h ld b d bl t '39, .Jast night. On Thursday Yunich. boot s s ou e rna e paya e o fo-rced to perform on the campus d B Ch · f Th •r•!ll preside with the assistance of Fre urns, J arrman o e and in the classrooms. He added ~ c William Thoma.s, '39, at the presen- Union College Junior Prom om- that, although demonstrations off · d t H b t W t tatLon of varsity and intramural mlttee, an sent o er er a- the campus have already been ban- L bd Ch\ AI h H a.warcls. On Friday President Fox' son, am a · 1 P a ouse, !shed, the carrying on of \hell h · f h b 'tt · will introduce WGY sports an- :: a1rrnan o t e su -comm1 ee m week\ in any public manner is de- h p t 'II b t d no ••ncei\ Leo Bolley, the first Block c arge. aymen s Wl e accep e lrimental to the reputation of both ~ 'I ·1 9 h d · f He has also played in the motion pictut·es \Love and Hisses\ and \Sally Irene and Mary.\ He was recently the guest artist on the CBS \Swing Session.\ \lJ\ [);),\ speaker. untz Apn 2 ; t e rawmg or the college and the fraternities, and ' · Solley, a graduate of Niagara bonth locations IS scheduled for Prior to his engagement at the it.s complete rem oval must be ac- h f 11 · M d M 1 LTniversit'·· where he started his t e !J owmg on ay, ay · Paramout in New York, where he complished in the future. ' F 't 't' t 1 · · a.thJetic career, previous to his ra erm res ana neu ra groups is strll playmg, he played for four The resolutions we.re approved radio work, was a professional renting booths are requested by weeks at the \Famous Donr,'' on by representatives of all but th1ee f<Jotball coach at Rochester, Ot- Burns to furnish them to blend 52nd Street in New York City. A fraternities, and wi:J go into effect ta\l\a and Buffalo. .vith the decorations suggesting a recent record of his that h-a.s been next year. No opposition was ex- Captains To Get Certificates 'tropical beach scene, the contract 1 selling rapidly is \Knockin' at the pressed by any of the alumni ad- for which has been awarded to G. 1 Famous Door,\ a composition of visors of the ft·atem·ities, all of Due to limited time, the awarding A. Traham So., Inc. of Cohoes 1 his own. whom were invited to attend the <>f certificates will be made only to meeting. tl!e captains of the several sports, --~o---- Bronner Announces CurriculumChanges Soeial Studies Will Q.f.fer Non-credit Work in Accounting, Finance wlio will distribute the certifieates to the various members of their respective teams at a later date. These certificates will be presented .for participation in the varsity foot-' ball, cross country, basketball, .swimming. hockey, skiing, lacrosse·, track, gq\f, :;tnd tennis. Freshman a.l!lJet.ic awards will not be made at the assembly, but are scheduled for .,piesentation at some later date. Cornp.lete lists of those who have. Glee Club Engaged In Concerts, Broadcast The Union Glee Club, during the past weekend, has been actively cr.- gaged in two concert performances and a broadcast over short-wave yesterday afternoon from the Mem- orial Chapel. The broadcast fea- tured jointly the Glee Club and the college band. Speaker Optimistic In Chapel Today Dr. Stockdale Explains His General Satisfaction With Economic Scene Non-credit vrorlt in Accounting· reeeived awards will appear in the will be offered next fall to certain · Frida:y issue of the \Concordiensis.'' members ot the class of 1940. ac-: Intramural championship cups :ording to an announcement made \\Ill also be presented on Thursday ... One hundred and forty-six sub-• today by Dr. F. L. :Bt·onner, Chair- ':rn addition to the championship freshmen came, saw, and went good tiD!e, or at least the \saphidti- man of the Division of Social. and runner-up cups for total poit1ts away apparently pleased. Our nn- >eated.\ aspects of one. We !taven't .Studies. This is intended as an ac-, scored during the year's competi- nual reception of prospective s~hul· heard of anyone who got in l•arly, commodation to members of the. 't·ion, cups will be -given for seven ars seems to have been one<: more who had as good a time .<s the class of 1940 who are at present en- specific intramural activities 'These a success. The biggest attraction sta;y-'llp-late boys. rolled in S. S. 38 and who had in- activities include touch football, of the week-end was the ftnals of ThE fraternities were, with a tended taking S. S. 40 next year. 1Jasketball, s:oftball. track, swim- On Sunday afternoon, the club appeared at a musical vesper serv- ieO; at the Congregational Church in Great Barrington, Mass. The suc- cess of the club's program of choir music was attested by the sincere praise it received for the perform- ance and also by the subsequent in- vitation to return next year, with promises of making the visit an an- nual event. Optimism fo1· the future of America was expressed by Dr. Al- len A. Stockdale, head of the Speakers Bureau of the National Association of Manufacturers,. as he addressed the student body this morning in the Memorial Chapel. \I do not see the chance of a dictatorship,\ said Dr. Stockdale, \because of too much of the tra- dition of freedom and too much of that something that comprises the American spirit of creative lib- erty.\ the intramural boxing and wres- fe.v l!ll. inor excceptions,. quitn ,lthtcal As a result of recent curriculum, ning. horseshoes, and bowling. tling.• The inauguration of this h h' h '11 · t ff t o--- h in re.-ard to abiding by the deci- c anges w JC WI go m o e ec • --- event appears to have added muc b It t' c 'I W'll o· sicon .fc.r no pledging. It a:i lends nex:t year, the present a erna mg ounCI I ISCUSS to the appeal of this sub-freshman s 38 d s S 40 'II b to a much happier and les3 J<erve courses, S. . an · · wt e f program. wr·ac lti'!lg time. And tha prep combined into a single coure to be N. s. 'F. A. Con ere nee The only things that detra':tcd. · h Th' h h l school lads are not so !ikelu to be gtven eac year. ts c ange as The chi'ef topi'c of dr'scusst\on at from the week-end were r w oceans ' f t' · th . · scared by some of the less con· the effect 0 preven mg men m e the St.udetlt Counct'l meet1'ng to· of mud that were quite indiacnmJ- · · · 1 f t k' h sciemtious rusing committees. present JUmor c ass rom a mg. moi·r·ow I'n the Old Chapel will. be nate in their locations, and t e · t· .Ai r, •n all, t·he week-end s~ems the scheduled course in accoun mg t·IIe plan for· the Middle Atlantic brevity of the supply of ice cream \ • \f· t'h 11 d 1 S S 38 at the Hale House reception. We to havoe been satisfactory both for 1 ey are now enro e ·. n · · .· Slate·s Regional Conference of the have also heard some of the boys guesis and hosts. The fraternities The work will be started in Sep- National Student Federation of speak not so fondly of sleeping (m had a cl1ance to look over nex:t tember, 1939, and will be scheduled America. which will be held on the a couch for the two night~. but year's crop of freshmen, and the on Monday evenings at 7 o'clock Union campus on April 28, 29, and that is merely trivial and preju- be>ys had a chance to see a cross- for a period of six: to eight weeks. 30. diced. se·di on of college life. The latter is Although no credit toward gradu- .Another proposal to be consid- An attraction that no other col- really the most important function ation will be given, its successful ered is the possibility of a blanket lege can offer is the trip to the of the event, but rushing cannot be completion will be indicated on the t= to be levied on students which General Electric House of Magic. forgoOtten In connection with a· permanent records in the Dean'$ would enable them to escort worn• It was well attended by m'Lny of sub-freshman week-end. From the Office. m. guests to any athletic contest the embryo engineers and phy.si- al.ardt:y with which most of the The special section will be open held on the campus. Also, a plan cists,. as well as .some of the n10re guell'ts accepted invitations to see a to members of the Class of 1940 ·which would make fencing a minoi· broad minded of the liberal !<rts little <>f the town's night life, it who have taken corporation finance: sport at Union has been suggested. prospects. wcas evident that they were not to.'J but will be closed to students on This plan, if recommended by the The rest of the entert:;..inment. a..,m-se to the rushing either. We Scholarship Warning, and to those council and accepted by the Admin- .excepting the various depa:·tmen- really 'don't think that very many carrying mo·re than four· courses. lstratlon, would raise fencing from tal exhibits. was rather on the im- poor innocents were led astraJ.·., Those eligible are asked to consult the unofficial activity that it now promptu side. The college boys did Most of them set a snappy pace. their advisors when maldng out Is. to a sport recognized by a \fUt\ their best to show the laddies a :But we ho]le not, anyway. schedules for next year. a-ward, Over 100 students participated in a half-hour broadcast over short- wave stations W2XAD and W2XAF yesterday afternoon at 4 o'clock. The program had been outlined by Paul Mahoney, '40, whose continuity script was used for the broadcast. Choral numbers by the Glee Club, music by the band, and an organ selection by Dr. Tidmarsh were fea- tured on the program. The narra- tion was carried on in a conversa- tional style between John Sheehan, '24, dil ector of the Radio Workshop which .sponsored the broadcast, and Paul Teare, '40. Last night, the Glee Club gave a formal concert at the Watervliet High School. The prog1am pre- sented was essentially the same as the one sung in New York and Binghamton. As far as is now known. the club will make its final important appearance of the season Friday, April 14, in its annual concert at the Mohawk Country Club under the auspices of the Schenectady Alumni Association. Considering the history of the United States, the speaker declared that it has made very good use of its resources and quoted the fol- lowing statistics: \America with 6 per cent of the area and 7 per cent of the population of the world has 50 IJe r cent of the radios and tele- phones. We import 50 per cent of the world's coffee and tin as well as. two-thirds of the silk. Ninety- two per cent of the automobiles are OWlled by Americans. That means one automobile for every five peo- ple. Contrast this with Russia where there is one automobile for every 85,000 people.\ 'The trend of industry is generally upward at the present said Dr. Stockdale. \Industry is not on a boom. or a rampage but it is goihg steadily up. The inventories a.re not overstocked and the prices are not high enough to interfere with this ~ondition. Cooperation between cap- Ital, l&.bor, agriculture, the pub- lic and the government is neces- sa.r.y for a steady il;n.provemen.t.\ , ..

THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 1939 :Page Two ELECTIVE COUltSES I OJnurnr FouNDED 1877 \A ·Causa Per sa Parole Assai\ ~!ember uf the Associated Collegiate Pres8 and t1i~tr11Jutor of the Cullegiate Digest. The official newspaper uf the students of Union. College. PUblished Tuesday and Fridays through· tJUt the cullege year. Editorial Roumo, Silliman Hall, Union Coll\<~:e Cam· pus Tclephot_le. SL\henettady 4-0l~:l. __ -~ __ Pullllca.tloil Olriee, The Gazette Press, 334 State St .. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 4-~!~1 Enten.~d at the Schenectady Pu~t Uff1ce a:::; Secoiu.J Cia:;:; l\lail 1\latter. Subscription price Five cents a copy: $3.00 a year·:· delivered a.nywhere in the United_St~- Senior Board Lawrence V. Pellettier, Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief 24 N. S. South College- -6-9728 :Ma.x Len . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Business Manager Kappa Nu House--4.-7331 c. Russell Deyo ............. Managing Editor Chi Psi Lodge-4-6527 Christopher :M. Faby . . . . . . . . . . . Sports Editor Delta Upsilon House- 4-7922 George Loadwick Peck .......... News Editor 1278 Parkwood Blv'd --4-9208 Edwin A. Fltz, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . Feature Editor Lambda Chi Alpha House- -4-0531 Jolm 11-lalone . . . . . . . . . . . . Circulation Manager 1091 Keyes Ave.-4-61131 -------~----~----------------- REPHESE:.NiED FOR NATIOr-1.\J.. ADVI:.R11SING SY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Pr•blijhers Represtmiative 420 MADISON AVE, NEW YoRK, N. Y- CHICAGO ' BOSTOtl ' l.OS ANGELES ~ SAH FRANCISCO Paul Becker Sheldon Jenkins John Lewis Junior Board John Phillips Robert Schul be! g James Twining Sophomore Board Alexander Arony, Armand Fiegenbaum, John Grow, Samuel Portnoy, Jonathan Featson Business Staff Robert Eisner Jack Rablnnwitz, Donald Haigh, Laskar Schwartz, Arthur Davis, Amly Kay, Justin Perlstein, Stanley Greenstein. ~lyron ~lills. Issue Editor ........................ John Lewis Assistant!, S. Jl'nkiu~. J. T\\itdug. I~. \\'~b.--h·r. ::-:.. Blechman Tuesday, March 28, 1939 school of our choice. This does not take into eons·ideratio-n the pride 0f achievement which comes upon the successful execution of aH assigned task. Notary Public For 1939-1940 T<~·ite as it seems, the adag-e still holds: u,;triltes B!Wk) Columnist's Holi.day The old Conc 0 rdy board has been, In presenting the list of elective courses for the academic year replaced by the new, yet the ghosts· 1939-40 may I req.uest that a;ll students who must ·choose electives begin at the former regime haunt the. immediately the preparation of their cou:vse programs for next year. All office, staying sometimes until that' programs must be completed by May 10. ' \ScholaTshi:p pays.\ ea:rly morning hour when the lights, Catalogs describing the various cou~ses and stating pre-requisites · al·e finally turned off . .Among this· may .be had at my office after April 1. host of ghQsts we number. Seldom, Under the rules of the coNege aU ·back wot•k takes precedence over in the histcry of sport has a cham-: new work and must be sche·duled fl.rst unless .permission to postpone it TOO POPULAR? A cheering crowd filled Alumni Gymnas- ium Oll Sa,[UI du~ !tig-ht to witness the box- ing, wrestling, and fenci.ng finals in the win- tet· intramural schedule. lJnofficial attend- , ance estimates range f1·orn 1,300 to 1,600 · .s]!)ectatol'S-v\·hatever the number, however, ;it was apparent that all available seats were · taken long- before the first event started. :Many in the crowd were forced to sit on the · .i floor Ol' to .stand during the bouts. ; 111 Such a-ttendance is a fitting testimonia'! 11 \ to the Athletic DepartmeHt's extensive intra- ; mural schedule and Mr. Wittner and his staff are to be congratulated for their efforts which have helped to make this pro- pion been known to make a come-· is granted. back. and the same goes for a col- Each student must file his course program wilh his adviser and amnist. Of this warning we are must prepare a time-sched·ule card so t:l!at .confJ.i'cts in courses may be heedless, and brave censure and avoided. Forms for this .purpose have been sent to the advisers. censor to return, as does the crim- C. F. GARIS, ina!, to the scene of the crime. Dean. During the happy interim, we have TIME SCHEDULE OF COURSES been busy making friends and in-. tlueHcing people, ali of whom will No jtmim m· senior may elect for credit more than one ·under-class ;n obabJ.y be alienated. after the course. Requirements .for majors and election of courses are printed In third week of columnar acrobatics. the catalog. I We regret not having w1•itten a DIVISION OF LITE'RATURE cclumn during the eventful winter months, even if it were on·ly for Upper-class Courses our owl'! record for .the thousand page history of Union coHege that English 21 (Shakespeare), T., Th., S., .9-9:50. Professor Blodgett. we intend to write some day and English 22 (The Eighteenth .centu.ry), T., Th.,. S., B-8:50, Professor Green. .tea 1 · up; but to tell the tt-uth the English 24 (The Victorian Era), T., Th., .S., 10:20-11:10. Professor Herrick. weather played us such a dirty English 30 (American Literature), M., W., F., 9-9:50. Professor Wa:inger. trick that we hibemated in our EngUsh 32a, 32b <Advanced Composition), M., W., F., 11:20-12::10 (semes- No1·th College room and, but for the ter courses). Pr0fessor Johnson. insisteNt demands of tne Dean, we French 20a {B\rench Civilization of the 19th and 20th C.:lnturies), T., would not have ventured out. Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Open only with permission of instructOI', Mr. £T<:un so popular. ~ However, with the tempest of the Zabuesnic. The on'ly disconcerting note in the whole west wind that blew through the French 22a, 22b (History of French Literature), T., Th., S., 9-9.50 (semes · · · 1 · ht b window casement al'l.d the door ter courses). Profe:>sor Bennetton. evening·'s actlvttles, 1owever, m1g e d d o t' d · jam came the storms that upset German 20 <Practice in a vance erman conversa 1011 an compost traced indirectly to the :popularity of the the composure of the campus: tion), M., w., F., 10:20-11:10. Professor Danton. bouts. Al··e they too popular? From several <hastily ennumerated as we remern- German 2la, 21b (History of German Literature), M., W., F., 11:20-12:10 ber them) Beer for the K., Ros- (semester courses). Professor Danton. sources the complaint has been raised that mersholm, the Faffrath _ Henyan Italian 10 <Dante), M., W., F., 10:20-11:10. Doctor Silber. ',./ many students and their sub-freshm:an Nazi debate, Mayor La Guardia:s Greek 14a, l4b (Greek and Roman History), M., W., F., 9-9:50 (semester ,1 visit, Harvard histOJi~n Morison's courses). Professor Coffin. g\Uests were forced to stand for the whole patriotic chapel address, the Con- Greek 21 <Advanced Greek), T., Th., S., 11:20-12:10. Professor ~offin. evening, whereas several tGwnspeople who cordy shot of Mrs. F. D. Roose- Latin 2 <Roman Lawl, T., Th., s., 9-9:50. Professor Kellogg. vett with Dr. and Mrs. Fox on the· Latin 21 (Lucretius), T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Professor Kellogg. apparently had absolutely no affiliation with steps of the President's house, the d las C Uniotl were ensconced in choice s.eats. . Washbmn conflagration, \and so Un er-e s ourses Possibly this grievance is somewhat ex- on\-et cetera is the proper expres- English 1 <Freshman English), M., W., F., B-8:50 or 10:20-11:10 or 11:20 - sian. 12:10; T., Th., S., 9-9:50 or 11:20-12:10. agg-erated, but simple mathematics will The Day English 10 (Introduction to English Literature), M., W., F., 10:20-11:10 P rove that a student body of 800 plus 150 If you would stop to consider or 11:2G-12:10; T., Th., s., 8-8:50, or 9-11:50 or 10:20-11:10. the mentality of the people who French 1 (Elementary French), M., w., F., 8-8:50; T., Th., S., 11:20-12:10 sub-freshmen guests WOUld not .equal the tear off the tops of cracker boxes, French 2 <Second Year French), M., W., F., 9-9:50; T., Th-, S., 8-8:50. number of spectators in the g·ymnasium on cigarette cartons, soap boxes, and French lOa (Introduction to French Literature), M., W., F., B-8:50. Open the like and send them in with to students who have completed French 2 or its equivalent. Saturday nig-ht, and it is ludicrous to assume their \twenty-five w·.ords\ saying, French lOb (Introduct:on to French Literature), M., W., F., 9-9:50 or that both student groups were fully repre- \Why I like such and such,\ you T., Th., s., 8-8:50. Open to freshmen who have passed three or more would probably decidE to enter the years of high school French. sented. competition for the grand prize French 20b (French Civilization of the 19th and 20th Centuries), T. In view of the tenor of these contests, we yourself. That is what some col- Th., s., 10:20-11:10, or 11:20-12:10. lege professors started doing. They G 1 (El t German) M W F 8 8·50· T Th S 8-8'50 feel that attendan .ce shou•ld be re\trl'cted to erman emen ary • \ ·• ., - · • ·· ·· ·· · · o got away with a fe-w new Stude- German 2 (Second Year German), M., W., F., 9-9:50; T., 'l'h., S., 9-9:50 students and their guests. If, however, bakers and trips to Bermuda umil German 10 <Introduction to the Classics), T., Th., S., 11:20-12:10. the judges decided tl> pick the win- G k 1 <\\1 t f G e kl M W F 11·20 12·10 towl ,speople a.I'e to be adn\'l'tted w·e su~rgest ree '\\ emen s 0 r e • ·· ·· ., · - · · From time to time when nothing moTe ' .. ~- ner at random from a drum. Still, Greek 11 <Xenophon), T., Th., s., 9-9:50. · l · If d't f 1 that they be J•eqUl.I'ed to pay a nominal ad- there are many literary conte•ts Latin 1 <Selections from Latin Prose Literature), M., W., F., 8-8:50. sensatwna presents ttse , e 1 ors o co- h t u b lege newspapers whose own academic prow- mission charge. This admission would not ~o~te~tav:r; e~~~ a~~~ ~~l~!n a~~~ Latin 11 <Selections from Latin Poetry), M., w., F-, 10:20-11:10. THE OLD REFRAIN 'd 1 f 1 · · b t be collected with an eye to the income to be portunity awaits anyone with fair- ess is perhaps no 1 ea , ee 1t meum en on ly decent ability. so far, so what: DIVISION OF SOCIAL STlJDIES Upper-class Courses themselves to assume a pontifical role, shake realized, but rather to reduce the number of Eh? But the point we wish to make the editorial finger at the student bodJ·, and persons at the bouts not affiliated with and can't get to because we have Union. such a verbose, ponderous and s. s. 21 <Europe since 1870), M., w .. F., 8-8:50. Professor Langsam. refer to the apparently trite subject of pedantic style is tb.is: There are S. S. 22 (European Colonial Expansion), M., W., F., 9-9:50. Professor scho\m·ship. In om· estimation, the officiating on Sat- essay prizes, debating prizes, scho- Langsam. d · bl b t th t' larship prizes, charader, book col- s. s. 27 <Eighteenth and Nineteenth Century England), T., Th., S., 10:20- We hold no brief for lOO'ir scholarship;. Ul' ay was unpecca e, u e sugges 1011 lecting, and musical ap.preciation 11:10. Professor Doty. the man whose college career consists en- has been made, and we thin1~: it a good one, ~~~~ th:n~~~~~~us :!~~ds t~~Yun~~ s. s. 28 <American constitutional Development>, T., Th., s., 11:20-12:10 tirely in being closeted with his books ~llld that outside officials be obtained for these given out in June a majority of s. s.P~~f~~~~o~;~~b~~~as in Western Civilization), T., 'l'h., s., 9-9:50 who has a Phi Beta Kappa key as his sole intramural encounters. This would obviate them go to a limited group of stu- Professor Stanley. goal is little higher in our estimation than the cries of \favoritism\ which are bound ~~;ts~f Dyoo~: 'l'::a~~Y~r(~~ 0 ~!o:.: s. s. 11 ~~o~~~:~~l.;~!::S~e;l~;~~~;:.istory of the United States), T., Th., s. is the undergraduate who is devoted 90<;( to to be l·aised by impassioned and biased thoroughly and get busy now. s. s. 34 <American Philosophy), M., w., F., 9-9:50. Professor Larrabee. r oters wh.en a close decision is awarded to Happy Easter, Egg. s. s. 36 <Economic History), M., w., F., 10:20-11:10. Professor Bronner social activities and lO'ir to his studies. 0 · D. L. s. s. 37 <The Labor Movement), M., W., F., 11:20-12:10. Professor Both philosophies are abnormal and are to the opponent of \their man.\ Mig-ht not the Bennett. be avol .ded. reve11ue from admissi()llS be used to hire out-~~ II s. s. 38 <Corporation Finance>, M., W .. F., 8-8:50 or T., Th., s., 8-8:50 f M 0 T I 0 N Professor Whitaker. side officials so that the ubiquitious \ avor- s 9 50 11 2 Hackneyed as the sentiment may seem, itism\ cries might be silenced? 1!.:=============!.1 s. s.l2~io~~~:f~~~~~r ~egn~~::tion of Society), T., Th., ., 9- : or. : o however, it is still true that our academic S. S. 44 <Current Problems of Government), M., W., F., 10:20-11:10 We've been seeing westerns of Tating- is the .standard by which OUl' college all shapes and colors ever since Professor Campbell. OUR COLLEGIATE Co 11 \TEMPORARIES th d h T M\ H t G b S. S. 45 <Public Finance and Ta~ationl, M., W., F., 10:20-11:10. Profes career is judged by college authorities, par- · 1'1 e ays w en om Ix, 00 i - sor Whitaker. son and. Jac~ B:mde were doing ents, graduate schools and prospective em- A pla.n for cooperative buying is being consid- their best to maintain law and or- S. S. 47 <International Law and Organization), M., w., F., 11:20-12:10 players. They point out, logically enou()'h, ered by a special committee at HAMILTON der. We had gotten to !mow the Professor O'Rourke. t . P t' l T Th S 9 9 50 ~ COLLEGE. Under the prO>posed ruTa.ngement, formula pretty well,-or so we S. S. 48 <State and Local Governmen m rae tee , -, ., ., • : that our ·chief duty in college is to earn good the CoUege Commons would cooperate with the thought. we knew what to expect Professor O'Rourke. grades, and if our record is below pal', they fraternities in the purchasing of food, and other and when to expect it, from the S. S. 50 (Social and Political Philosophy), T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Pro necessa.ry commodities. time our hero cantHed into focus fessor Larrabee. have ample reason to believe that we have * * * until he and the viLlain got around s. s. 56 <Seminar). By appointment with staff. not done our assigned task satisfactorily. \Rrud\ Holland, Cornell's. famous negro All- to trying to settle one another's American foutbaU pLtyer, spol<P at an atblPtiC hash just before the fadeout. And The \Big Man on Campus\ scho0l of banquet at ST. LAWRENOE UNIVERSITY then came Stagec{)oach (consarn'!) thought to the contrary, extra-curricular ac- recently, and following this a.ddress was called and messed everyth:ing up. on by a Sociology instructor to address his class The story goes that scenarist tivities are not rated above, or even on a par on the subject ''The Problems of the American Dudley Nichols and director John with scholarship. A fine example of this Negro.\ Ford se.t out to use all the stereo- ::~ * * typed situations in unusual ways. theme comes to minnd when we recall the Two Deans at COLUMBIA. UNIVERSITY were Their setting is the Arizona fran- impromptu address given in chapel two rPcently 41.uestioned by aides of the Dies Com- tier along about 1881>; their story, mittee in an attempt to determine if there were that of a single tri:P by· stagecoach years ago by one of our outstanding alumni any \m1-American activities'' existing on the from Tonto to Lordsburg; their in which he said that his wife was not so ca.mpus. characters, nine in number, are a · d * * * k1nd of cross-section of human- JOY·€ upon learning that their son had been In a Iettet· to 26 of the ~!! fraternities at LE- ity, with emphasis on the less re- chosen for the All-American lacrosse team HIGH UNIVERSITY, Dean wray H. Congdon spectable types. h d · t d h h wa.rned that fire baza1•ds existed in these houses, Characterization b y T h a mas as s e was e]ec e w ·en · e was not men- and sa,id that definite actioa will be taken if fire Mitchell, George :Bancroft, Claire tioned on the Dean's List. protection is not provided '\Vithin a year's time. Trevor, Louise Pla:tt, John Wayne, Personnel managers point out that activi- ties .are desirable .so long as they are sub- ordinated to studies. Activities, when com- bined with scholarship are valuable, hut have little or no value when they are not \backed up\ b:v scholarship. In brief, by maintaining creditable grades,. we are justifying- the confidence in us of those who are bearing the financial burden of our education, we are raising- ourselves appreciably in the eyes of any prospecti'le employer, and we greatly increase our chances of being accepted by the graduate Dean Congdon pointed out that the state fire · John Carradine and others is set chief has the authority to padlock any house in ·Off to advantage by splendid pho- which fire protection facilities do not meet the tography and musical accompani- state requirements. ,nent. It's the best film the Fori!- * • '' · Nichols team has made since The The Verrrtnnt Independent;;, a group of non- fraternity men at the UNIVERSITY OF VER- MONT, have adopted a constitution, and are now making arrangements for securing a bouse of their own. -· * * Protesting damage allegedly done to their cars by an Amherst garage wl!icll had been commis- sioned by the police deparl;ment to tow the cars from the street for violation of parl>ing regula- tions, stmlents of AMIIEl!ST COLLEGE and MASSACHUSETTS STATE COLLEGE picketed the gru·age for 24 hours, ca.rrying signs which read \If your car runs at all, don't take it to .......... , ....... 's.\ · Informer and the best Western . we've ever seen , . . the only one, incidentally, to make use of .gen- ' uine, honest-to-JolLn Western scen- ery intelligently. t;3ljlll Starting 'I'ODA Yt Syl Iia 8111ney in \· • ON F. 'J'HIH:D 01' A N A'flON\ 2nd I'Ntlur~ 'f'.hc Joues. l'u.mlly in \J<:VERYIJOJ)Y'S BABY\ \Saratoga Night\ Tonifl'ht Under-elass Courses S. S. 1 (History of Western Civilization), M., W., F., 10:2G-11:10 or 11:20-12:10; T., Th, S., 10:20-11:10 or 11:20-12:10. S. S. 2 <Introduction to Social Institutions), M., w., F-, :10:20-11:10 or 11:20-12:10; T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10 or 11:20-12:10. S. S. 10 <Methods and Problems), M., W., F., 11:20-12:10; T., Th., S. 11:20-12:10. Special section for Philosophy, T., Th., S., :11:20-12:10. S. S. 11 <Elementary Economics), M., W., F., 8-8:50; T., Th., S., 9-9:50. S.S. 12 (Introduction to Government), M., W., F., 9-9:50; T., Th., S. 8-8:50. DIVISION OF SCIENCE Upper-class Courses Biology 13 <Heredity and Evolution), T., Th., 8-8:50; lab., W., ~::l0-3:30 Professor Dale. Biology 21 <Embryology and Histology), M., W., or M., F., 8-8:50; lab. M., T.,. or Th., 1:30-3:30. Professor Scott. Biology 22 <General Physiology), T., Th., 9-9:50; lab., T., or Th., 1:30-3:30 Professor Mavor. Biology 23 (Nervous System and Sense Organs), T., Th., 11:20-12:10 lab., M., 1:30-3:30. Professor Clark. Chemistry 12 <Organic Chemistry), M., W., F., 11:20-12:10; lab-, M., T. or Th., 1:30-3:30. Professor Schmidt. Chemistry 22 (Physical Chemistry), M., W., 9-9:50; lab., Th., 1:30-3:30 Doctor Porter. Chemistry 23a, 23b (Colloid Chemistry, Advanced Organic Chemistry) T., Tb., 11:20-12:10; lab., F., 1 :3G-3:30. (Semester courses). Doctor Sunderlin. Geology 11 (Problems of Geology and History of Geological Science) M., F., 1:30-3:30. Professor Smith. Geology 21 (Mineralogy and Petrology), M., F., 3:30•5:30. Professor Smith. Mathematics. 21 (Adv:anced Calculus and Differential Equations>, M., W. F., 8\8:50 or 10:20-11:10. Professor Morse. Mathematics 22 (Differential and Integral Calculus, pre-requisite Mathe matics 12), T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Professor Fox. (Oontin ued on Pll.lge 4) 0 Per We Maurie punche !:tome. looked the .sh< tai:rrly hand ; Orton, tify .. on Bot 1y can said, \ fere l' ring w ancien1 missed night order time f with 1 procee ponent knockc descri1 Reilly blow , Harkn restra: punch' they ring ir lots o outcor setto. two tc darifi interc· which intran than fough than compE extra corneJ Wittn fine . did ir ing 111 capab ular . ping 1 Both' when a we: didn'1 have simpl good vineg \S: pearE writt jamil ner r day StatE cia tic ship~ Nels< Glov• ketb: Tues iVIele sing] Sche pong his : Tedc ketb 1936 sion: 3! p 6l 2: 2« 11

it be I , T., Mr. mes- posi- ester 12:10. 50. Open 50 or more T., 10:20- 9-9:50. S., 8-8:50. 11:20- 9-9:50. Pro- or or Th., s., Th., s .. ::l0-3:30. 50; lab., :30-3:30. , M., T., Doctor Mathe- THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 1939 Page Three ~......... .. ............................. ...... A PECK OF SPORTS Record Crowd Witnesses 13th 'Sports Carnival' : v .... YW Bothwe 1:1, Mauriel!lo. Pertaining to Pugilism Harkness 1 Santee. We liked the way Sal: L T • h Mauriello absorbed Killian's · eversee .r.1ump. punches and dr~ve his own. h Jim Bothwell, Beecher Leversee, home. From this corner · •e Bill Harkness, Sal Maudello, and' looked like the best boxer in Paul Santer punched their way to the .show ... Paul Santee cer- the charnpionships in their respec- tainly has a powerful right t•ve weight classes Satm·day night . S ff in Alumni Gymnasium during the hand as Messrs. emeno ' 13th annual intramural mid-winter Orton, ami Wardwell will tes- carnival. tify ... McCarthy's comment Preceding the boxing, wrestling on Bothwell was, \He certain- and fencing matches took place,. be- fore an es.timated 1,200 spectat0rs, 1y can hit hard.!\ B0thwell incl-uding students, sub-freshmen, said, \It'll be a long time be- and townspeople who turned out fere I'll want to g.et in the for the g.ala affair. This wa.s a. ring with him again.\ ... It's record ctowd for any intramural • b M · ll event ever held at Union College. \Joltin' \ Jim -Bothwell has just delivered one of .the decisive blows to his opponent's eye in his technical ·knockout over Leo McCar-thy in the second round. -Photo by E. N. •Cat\t' Paul Santee, as he served Billy \\'ardwell with the- first of two crushing lights to Wardwell's jaw, which result.>d -in SanteP's ,·ictot-y by a technical K. 0. -l 'hoto hy A. E. l..,tJ\.,\'l~llthal Bob Rillian is shown on tht- re- C('iving end of a stiff left hook from \Mauler\ Maw·iello who out-pointed his opponent to win by a dt>cision after ttuee rounds. -Photo by I·~- ~. <'a~P Burns and KruU Retain Mat THies By HUDSOS TANN-ER Six pinnings and only one deci- sicn were tung up in the wrestli-ng championships last SatUt·day night in the Alumni Gymna:;ium. All matches were the best exhibition\ of the \grunt and groan\ art since the stat t of the eliminations. Two upsets were tecor·dcd and two de- fend-ing championships retained. ancient h1st0ry, ut 1 aune' 0 Bothwell, weighing 172, came out missed his bus last Mo-nday in the first round and ,flashed good night and ran three miles in boxing form against his Neutral order to ;reach the gym in opponent, Leo McCarthy. McCarthy time for his scheduled match rallied about mid-way in the round to lash Bothwell unmercifully. with Davis. He t1ten calmly Bothwell fell te his knees twice,. proceeded to .eliminate his op- but took no count on either occa- p0nent via the technical sion. He was groggy at the end of knockoat route .... The best the round. McCarthy had a welt Fencing Champions Crowned in Finals Campus Seers Succumb to Upsets In Intramural Bout Predictions In the lightest weight class, Tal- bot Mead, Kappa Alpha, staged a comeback with three minutes to go tl)at enabled him to equal the early time advantage Noble McCartney, Alpha Delt, had established and throw the bout into an overtime. F-rom here be went on to pin the former Mercersburg g!'appler and take the bout in the second over- time one-minute stanza. Avery Beers' superior knowledge of wretitling enabled him to defeat Paul Santoro, Lambda Chi Alpha, (Continued on Page 4:) over his left eye. description for the Leversee- Reilly fray is~\and not a Fitz Stops Bout Joltin' Jim came out with a ven- blow was struck.\ . · · Both geance in the second round and Harkness. and Kill-ian might was effective with hard rights and restrain themselves f r o m left to McCarthy's head. He knock- punching in the clinches if ed the Neutral down with a right C to the jaw and Mac took a count of they enter a Union · ollege nine. At this point his nose was ring in the future .... There's bleeding profusely, and Referee Ed lots of discussion about the Fitz stopp€d the fight, giving Both- outcome of the Harkness-Paul well the victory by a technical knockout. setto. The officials were split, Sal Mauriello fooled many boxing two to one .... As a matter of followers when he proved to be clarification: under the new Kangaroo Killer Killian's supe.rior intercollegiate boxing rules, by winning a decision in three which m·e ·adopted for Union's rounds. Du>'ing the first round they did a lot of fighting in the intramural program, no more ropes, with both getting even than three rounds may be breaks. The second round was also fought when there are more even. and in the third the Killer was slowed down and fatigued. than two colleges Or groups Mauriello, the Neutral, out-boxed competing. In dual meets an his rival; but Killian's punching in extra round is 0. K .... This the clinches counted heavily against corner doffs its cap to Hal him. d Ed F 't f th Billy Wardwell, D. U., put up a Wittner an l z or e close fight with the favored Paul fine job of officiating they Santee, Phi Delt, for two rounds, did in the wrestling and box- but Santee pulled a roundhouse ing matches respectively. The right swing from way back and capable Mr. Fitz used partie- tagged Wardwell on the jaw about half-way in the third stanza and ular good judgment in stop- Billy hit the dust, face down. He ping the Santee-Wardwell and staggered to his feet and exchanged Bothwell-McCarthy scraps a few blows, but another right put when he did .... Contrary to him down face forward again. Ref- eree Ed Fitz then stopped the fight. a well-drculated rumor, Mac despite the protests of Wardwell, didn't go to the hospital to and gave Santee the victory by a have his eye treated. He technical knockout. -simply went h01ne, applied the Paul Loses Championship good old-fashioned remedy of Nate Paul was unsuccessful in vinegar and crawled into bed. the defe.nse of his title against Freshman Bill Harkness after three Generalia rounds of slow fighting. The bout Kimmey, Gertz Defend Titles Successfully By JAMES E. TWINING Four campus seers ( ?), by name: Ben Rathbun, Jack Pearson, Hud- son Tanner, and George Peck. have Immediately following the eve- Messrs. Harkness and Mauriello, of ning's wrestling matches last Sat- fisticuff fame, and Thomas and urday, six intramural fencers held Mead, the grapplers, to thank, or the spotlight in Alumni Gymnasium blame, for spoiling as fine a set of while the crowd of spectators prognostications as we have seen watched two defending champions this year. These four intramural retain their titles. Both Warren participants did a bit of upsetting Kimmey and Stanley Gertz re-· Saturday night in the final stages mained \tops\ in their respective of the week's events in Alumni epee and saber matches, while Gymnasium, and, in so doing, Frank Mele gained a victory in the ruined many a seer's chance for a foils event. perfect prediction. The first contest found Franl' Pecit Picks Nine Winnet·s Mele taking the measure of .Abe Of the above mentioned predic- Bakal, five points to two. All strikes tors, George Pee]{, of \The Con- landed on the torso count for cordiensis,\ came out on top by points in a foils match. Whether picking nine out of twelve winners. or not a point has been scored is When asked for a statement as to entirely up to the judges in both his good fortune in predicting, this and the saber events. Peck said, \It was strictly scien- Saber Match Close Gertz won a \clo.se v.ictoryover Jose Freire in their saber bout, five to four, The match was tied many times before Gertz finally landed the deciding point. Any touch above the waist is credited with a point in this event. In the \lipstick smeared\ epee match, Bob Herman lost to Kim- mey, three points to one. A point, or touch, is scored in this event when one man strikes the other any place from head to foot. If either judge thinks a man has been struck, the bout is stopped while a search is made for the tell-tale lip- stick mark. Leversee piled up a -big point ad- vantage in the first round. In the second round the challenger forced the fight, but Beecher· tied him up frequently. Reilly resorted to hit- and-run tactics in the final round, and the fight as a whole was a hug- ging match. The champion was a warded the decision. tific!\ However, the evening's upsets got the better of George as they did of his fellow sportswriters and Bill Harkness's victory over de- fending champion, Nate Paul, cou- pled with Talbot Mead's surprise defeat of Noble McCartney, were enough to knock perfection from his select list. The Avery Beer- Paul Santoro -mat struggle also fooled Peck,. who was alone in choosing Sal Mauriello over Bob Killian and Billy Thomas over Jesse Sherman. Ben Rathbun, sports correspond- ent for the Schenectady Union- Star, did surprisingly well in prec dieting eight of the twelve win- ners, when the fact is taken into consideration that he had not seen a single preliminary bout. The four upsets already mentioned stumped Ben, who picked E>very other con· test with perfection. Hudson Tanner, of the Albany Knickerboclter - News, and Jack Pearson, correspondent for the Schenectady Gazette, brought up appeared as though it would be a \Sport Stuff\ which ap- fast one when Paul flattened his peared in the last issue, was challenger in the first few seconds written by the able Mr. Ben- with a right and left to the head. Harkness got up without a count.· jamin Rathbun .... Hal Witt- In the second round both men ner ref.ereed Friday and Sun- fought evenly with Paul hitting his day nights at the Eastern adversary frequently with rights State Amateur Athletic Asso- to the face. Harkness missed sev- Summaries: l.Jevert\ee. 13:!. d0d~iot1 ovC'r He-illy, 131 (3); Santee. 139. teehnit:al l<noek- oout over Wanlwell. 144 l3l; :.\Iauriello, 163. deeisiou O\el~ Killian, lfi2 (3); Ha-rkneP~. 15·~, n~(·i~inn (1\'el' Paul. 155 (3.); Bothwell. 111;. \t'l'hlli<-al Imo<\lwut <>Wl\ :\Iel'arthy, 187 (2). Interested in Schenectady Interested in UNION etal punches. In the third round, ciation basketball champion- Harkness was hitting in the ships at Sa.1·atoga .... Coaeh clinches often, and Paul countered Nelson Nitchman spoke at the with several body punches. Gl '11 H' h S h 1 b In the first fight of the eve- oversVl e Ig C 00 ·. as- ning, Ned Reilly surprised the spec- ketball team's banquet last tators by going the route with, and Tuesday night .... F1·ank giving Champ Leversee more com- Melewicz has entered both the petition than he bargained for. singles and doubles in the Schenectady County ping- pong championships. He plays his first match tonight .... Teddy Podbielski, Union bas- ketball captain and star in 1936-37 has turned prof-es- sional~ C.S.MOODY OPTOMETRIST 115 B\way Tel. 6·5747 Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted Three Doors from State St. LOUIS WASSERMAN MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Strut ]e<Wtler 166 JAY STREET Dress Shirts Expertly Done AMERICAN A-1 LAUNDRY Watch anrl Jewelry Repairing a Specialty Ph. 4-:l166 1030 Barrett St. PARKER and WATERMAN PENS -·---··--- ------~---- DISPLAY IN SILLIMAN HALL II A.M. to 6 P. M. by WULF BROS .• Inc. Manufacturers of the rear, with seven out of twelve \corrects\ aoiece. Pearson was a victim of th;ee of the \recognized\ upsets, but he fooled his editorial opponent~ by picking Harkness over Paul, remaining unconven- tional in choosing Bill Wardwell over Paul Santee and Lee Sher- : man over Stuart Goldblatt. 'J1annt-r Loses on McCarthy Tanner, on the other hand·, fol- lowed the crowd in succumbing to the upsets, and created one of his own, by electing Leo McCarthy to take the measure of Jim Bothwell, which he failed to do. For the engineers who may be interested, Peck picked exactly 75 per cent of the results correctly which we will agree is an impres- sive figure. Rathbun came through with a 66 2/3 average while Pear- son and Tanner trailed with 58 per cent correct. J. S. HANDELMAN QUALITY GROCERIES and MEATS Fresh Fruits & Vegetables Daily Fresh Butter and Eggs FREE DELIVERY Phone 6-60 16 920 State St. Free Delivery Phone 4-744'51 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO \Qualify Service Satisfaction\ PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N. Y. Healthful All Year 'Round FRO-JOY ICE CREAM Unquestionably Favored! _I- A Rl STOC RAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY PHONE 4·2553 Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY ST. QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 Broadway Phones 4-3364, 4·3365 Imported Kingsley Tweed Suits $19o50 II ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS CLOVERLAND CREAMERY Phone 6·81 04 633 State St. 226 Nott Ter. 204 Union St. 1009 Chrisler Ave. FOR PROMPT SERVICE 919 State St. PHONE 6-3456 Imported Harris Tweed Top Coat $21.50 Hollywood Sport Coats $9.50 Complete Line All-Wool Worsted Suits Drapes, Semi~Drapes and Conservatives $16o80 and $19o50 DIRECT FACTORY PRICES FOR YOU Gazette Press Printing i '.

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, M:ARCH 28, 1939 ==~==========~============~~======== Oro Potter Exp·lains •cha,rity• and •Love· Quotes Saint Paul, Abraham Lincoln In Sunday Address Dean Rockwell Harmon Potter, '95, of the Ha:rtford Theol0gical Seminary, .quoted Saint Paul and Abraham Lincoln on the subject of love and chat•ity in his sermon in Memorial Chapel .Sunday. Taking Paul's letter on charity and Lhcoln's sta:tement, \charity for all,\ in his second inaugural address, Dr. Potter attempted to show what each man had meant by the WO!'d. \What did Lincoln mean by it~ What did Paul mean by it?\ asked the speaker. ••we can be sure that Lincoln meant what he thought Paul rneant. We ·can't read any of Lincoln's addresses without find· ing traces of the .scriptures. What did Paul mean'? He meant what he thought Jesus meant. W()rd IDsused Air Corps Officers Here On Friday and Saturday H 0t to be outdone by their' ttaditional rivals, the sailors, 1 epresentatives of the United , .States Atmy will arrive on the campus Friday morning at 9 o'clocli to begin a campaJgn to .make Union men air-minded. The visit is part of the pro- gJ·am to enlarge the Army .Air Corp:; and is designed to enlist . the interest of students in :fill- ing some 3,000 additional posi- ticns in the flying cadet train- ing div1sion. According to FI'ed- eric A. Wyatt, director of the Placement Bureau which is in charge of such visits to the college, the Army men will be- gin by conducting physical ex- »minations in the gymnasium , .. i. :1 the a~sistance of Dr. G. r.b: cell us Claw e. It is also n!anned to show a motion pic- ture in the Old Chapel. Wyatt revealed that the Navy pictures attracted an audience of approximately 40 and that at least live semors have flied applications with the cor.ps. IN THE MAIL tor, ·or s0mething stupid like that. I would Hke to know just how Editor, the Concordiensis: any athletic P,epartment could get In their Friday letter to the Con- a better head, a better staff,. a more cordy in which they revile Robert enthusiastic and sympathetic train- Saar for his spelling of the sttt name er and friendly doctors as our de- \Kruegei \ Messer>s Wade and Ma• par,tment has for the lim,ited. bud- lone, those two self--proclaimed ·get on which it ex:ists. \literary lHtists\ misspell the word Somebcdy mentioned Fted Parks \misspeUing.\ as a grump who was moJ'e afraid . In the same issue of tche \Concor- of letting a towel out than of losing ·diensis,\ Malone's \Motion\ column ,an arm. If Fred didn't keep an eye contains wh!l!t I wouldn't considet• a on his equipment there ·certainly very tidy sentence. It reads: \Rose- 1·re plenty of willing men who : mary Lane, Victor Jmy, Granville would try unintentionaJ.ly to walk Bates and others give their all for off with the supply room, the lost cause, too, And, of course, Somebody will want a solution. history I'epeats itself in the assass- There is one. Add $5 or $10 to the ination of ,Garfield.\ tuition ·for athletics, and doctot'S Fie on you, \Inspectot\ Wade and care and .a good half of the critic- \Muskrat\ Malone! Fie! Fie! Fie·! isms I am sur.e wiH be silenced, Ee Yours ·sure, though. that there will be some, Edward Ward '41 ci·iticism, no matter if we were to have the pt:vllege or a Hal!mess To Those Enthusiastic Athletic Critics of Union College: From time to time it has ap- gymnas.jum. Henry Clay, '39. ----o---- Ping Pong Pairings peared in the pages of \The Con- Burdick H. Brittin has announc- cardiensis,\ frequently it is the ed that the matches in both the source of argument over fratet·nity winners' and losets' brackets of tables, weekly the discussion over the ping pong tournament must be 3. glass of beer. that our athletic played by Friday or forfeited. The department is inefficient, poorly pairings in the winners bracket managed, and inadequate to meet follow: Sigma Phi vs. Kappa Nu, Drama Critic Will Speak Wrestli·ng Finals · On 'Broadway in Review' <Continued from Page 3) John Mason Brown, drama The second upset of the evening ctit!c of the \New York Evening by a time advantage. Post,\ will speak before the , , was recorded in the 135-145 pound . Schenectady College Women's class when 'Bil'l Thomas, Lambda Club on \Broadway in Review,\ ·.·Chi Alpha, threw Jesse Sherman, '.:Delta Upsilon, defending champion, an ·wednesday evening in the at t!he seven mtnute mark. Memorial Chapel. As the dra- mat-ic critic .of the \Post Mr. In the 145-158 pound class, DGri Brown is well a:cq\Jainted, with : 1 Hendersmt, Chi Psi, made easy the New York theater. He will :~· · work of Howard Lawrance, Phi discuss the current plays ·before · Sigma Kappa. 'Forcing the fight all the group. of the way, Don climaxed his ef- '-===============-:!' for.ts 'bY pinning Lawrance with ·- ·.his famous \Bear Hug\ with but CALENDAR Today 7:~u p. m.-Classical Club Meet- ing, Dr. Kellogg's Home. L0uis E. Page, Jr., '39. Wednesday lO:CO a. m.--Daily Assembly, Edwin A. Fitz, Jr., '40. 7:30 p. m.-Student Council Meeting, Old Chapel. 8:00 p. m.-Schenectady College Worr.en's Club, Memoria 1 Chapel. John Mason Brown, Drama Critic, New York \Eve- ning Post\ \Broadway in Re- v:ew,\ two minutes and 45 seconds elapsed of ·the scheduled eight. In the 1:58-174 pound class John Krull, Beta Theta Pi·, turned in the shortest bout of the evening by pinning IHcldnson Griffith, Phi Delta Theta, in one minute and ten seconds. Fred Burns, Theta Delta Chi, defending champion of the 175-186 pound class, showed from the start chat he was going to· waste no time in defeating Sheridan Wait, Chi ?si. Forcing the fight throughout, he finally pinned Wait in three min- .ltes and five seconds. \\\'hen the revisers of the King James version came to Jesus' dis- sertation on charity, they decided that it was a much misused word Notices · the needs of our college. ·Chi Psi vs. Phi Gamma Delta I, Thursday 10:00 a. m.-Da:ily \Bleck ·u· Day.\ A good show was put on in the heavyweight class between Stewart 'Iron Man\ Goldblatt and Lee Sher- man, both. members of the Phi Sigma Delta fraternity. \Iron Man\ finally took the bout, pinning Lee in three minutes and 35 seconds. and changed it to love. -thereby re- The c;;~s!cal Club will meet to- storing its .original meaning which is found in the Old Testament. night at the campus home of Dr. 3-eorge Kellogg. Louis E. Page, Jr., \If the word charity is over- 3), will read a paper which deals used, and it is,\ said Dr. Potter, \th th · f t\les 1 ·n vv1 e compattson a s • \I suggest that the reviset·s didn't Hornet 'o ept'cs and the German help things much. Love is the most ~ over-worked WOJ'd in the English :..;iu<'lungPnlied. language. Love is used to describe Any membet· of the literature di- esthetic .satisfaction. Then it is ~jsion i.a invited to attend the meet- used to connote romantic love , . . ing. then we use it to connote friend- The capacity test requil ed of ~hip of the David and Jonathan va- students applying fo1 admission to riety. The 1i ttlc wot·d love has to the Law School of Columbia Uni- carty all that. versity will be he'd on SatUiday, \Love means intelligent, purpose- :;1ay 6, at 1:30 P. M. in room 107, fUl discerning, patient, sacrificial. Bailey Hall. Any Union students good will. Thexe you have it. No wishing to apply for admission to' wonder the revisers didn't put that this law school should file their up- in.\ the speaker concluded. plications by April 10. ------------~----~---------- Elective Courses <Continued from Page 2) Mathematics 25 l The Theotr of Equations and Algebrai::! Invariants), T., Th .. S .. 9·9 :50. Professor Burl,ett. Mathematics 31 1 Advanced Calcu!us·l, T., Th., 8., 8-8:50. Professor Sn)o·der. Physics 2 !Geneml Physics), M., \\'., F., 11:20-12:10, llb., T .. 2:30-4:30 Laboratory is conducted in altctn<.te \,Ceks ant! when conductEd one recitation period is omitted. Open to upperclassmen only. Pro- fessor Rojansky. Physics 3 tGeneral Physics for ot udct•W prer.a: ing fur the study of medicine), lecture T .. 9-9:50: recitations, Th., S. 8-S:DO ot· 9-9:50: lab., Th., or F., 1:30-3:30. Professor Thatcher. Physics 21 <Heat, Elect!icity, Magnetisml, T, Th., S .. 11:20-12:10: lab., T., or F .. 1:30-3:30. Professot· Rojansky. Psyc.hology a <History of Education and Ptinci],les of Education l. M, W., F., f}-9: 50. Professor Chilhud. Psyc,hology 4 <Educational P:;ychology Lnd Principles of Teaching). M., W, F., &8: 50. Professor Chillt ud. Psychology 11 !Abnormal Psychology anti Petsonalityl. M., W., F, 9·0 :50. Professor Ligon. Psychology 12 !Statistical Methods!, T .. Th., S. 11:20-12:10. Professot Chillrud. Psychology 21 tAdvanced Psycho:ogyl, M., W., F .. ot T, Th., S, 10:20- 11:10. Professor March. Psychology 22 tP1actice Teaching and Methods), M., W .. 3:30-6. Pro- fessor Chil!t·ud. Psychology 23 <Psychological Methods), M., Th., 1:30-4:30 or T., F., 1:30-4:30. Professor Ligon. Under-class Courses Biology 1 1Gener:.! Biology fur students,. ho do not plan to special';;:e in Biology), :M., W .. 9-9:50; h b., F., 1:30-3:30. A section of this cour~e will be <!evoted to Delany if the! e is sufiic !ent den· and fo~ it. Biclogy 2 !General r:iolob')' for r.1·• ;ors in biolog-y and fot\ students pre- paring foi' the :;tu<ly of rr.edicincl, T., Th., 10:2C-11:10: lab, M., W .. or Th., 1::30-3:30. Biology e <Human Biologyl, M .. W .. 10.~0-11:10; lab .. Th .. 1:30-3:30. Not open to freshmen or premedical stu.:ente. Biology 11 <Zoology and Compatative Anatomy of Vet tebratesl, M., W., or M., F .. 11:20-12:10: lab., M .. T., W .. or Th .. 1:30-3::;0. Chemistry 1 (G~neni.l Chemistry), T., Th .. 10:20-11;10; Jab., M., or Th .. 1:30-3:30. Chemistry 3 CGeneral Chemistry for students preparing for the study of medicine), M .. W., F., 10:20-11:10: lab., T., or F., 1:30-3:30. Chemistry 11 <Quantitative Analy~isl, T .. Th .. or S, 8-8:50: I~ b .. M., W., Th., or F, 1:30-3:30. Geology 1 <General Geologyl, T., Th., 1:30-2 30; lab .. T, or Tl1., 2 :30-'! :30. or W .. 1:30-3:30. Mathematics 2 (Survey course in algebra, trigonometry and anal;;tic geometry), M., W., F., 8-8:50: T., Th, S .. 8-8:50. A section of this course will be devoted to business mathematics for students in the Social Studies Diviston, M., W., F., 8-8:50. Mathematics 12 <Differential and Integral Calculus), M., W., F .. 10:20- 11:10 or 'I'., Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Physics 1 <General Physics--students electing this cour~e must elect Physics 11 in the following yearl, lecture M .. 9-9:50; recitation W .• F., 9-9:50; lab., M., T., W., Th., o1· F., 1:30-3:30. Lecture and labora- tory in alternate weeks. Ph:ysics 2 <General Physics for under-classrr:en in Divisions I and JI) lecture T., 9-9:50: recitations Th., S., 9-9:50; lab., T .. 2:30-4 ::!0. Lecture and laboratory in alternate weeks. Physics 11 <Second course in General Physics!, lecture M., 8-8:50: recita- tions, W., F., 8-8:50: lab .. M., T .. W .. Th .. or F., 1:30-3:30. Lecture and laboratory in alternate weeks. Psychology 1 !General Psychology), M., W., F., 8-8:50 or 11:20-12:10; 'I'., Th., S., 10:20-11:10 or 11:20-12:10. UPPER-CLASS COURSES OUTSIDE THE DIVISIONAL ORGANIZATION Religion 1, M., W., F .. 11:20-12:10. Mr. Houghton. History of Art, T., Th., S .. 11:20-12:10. Professor Green. Appreciation of Music, M., W., F., 1:30-2:30. Director Tidmarsh. ELECTIVES FOR B. S. IN CHEMISTRY AND B. S. IN PHYSICS STUDENTS Any elective may he chosen for which the student hM !tad th~ proper prerpquisites and which is sche.duled at one of the times indicated. B. S. In cnernlstry-- S<'niors: M., W., F .. 9-9:50: T .. Th., S., 8-8:50, 10:20-11:10, or 11:20-12:10. Juniors: T., Th., S., 8-8:50, 9-9:50, or 11:20-12:10. Sopbomores: M., W., F .. 10:20-11:10. T., Th., S., 11:20-12:10. B. S. in Physics- Seniors: M., W., F., 8-8:50, or 9-9:50. T., Th., S., 9-9:50,10:20-11:10, or 11: 2()-.12 :10. Juniors: T., Th., S., 8-8:50, or 11:20-12:10. Sophom~res: M., W., F., or T., Th., S., 11:20-12:10. Personally, I am tited of this Phi Sigma Delta vs. North. Coi!ege, whole thing. I don't think half of Kappa Sigma vs. Phi Delta Theta those would-be athletes ever get II. In the losers bracket: Psi past the suggestion f.rom some Upiison vs. the winner of Phi Delta other fellow who is a sp01·ts edi- Theta I and Delta Upsilon II. ---------------------------- FOR A Assembly, Friday 10·00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, \Block ·u· Day\ continued. IN SMOKING PLEASURE BETTE DAVIS WARNER BROS. STAR Before and after seeing. BETTE DAVIS in \DARK YICTORY 11 ..• coming soon to . your local theatre enioy Chesterfield's Happy Combination of the world's best cigarette tobaccos Thanks to their can't-be-copied blend Chesterfields are refresh· ingly milder, taste better and have a more pleasing aroma. Chesterfield gives you just what you want in a cigarettea When you try them you will know why Chest~ erfields give millions of men and women more smoking pleasure ••• why THEY SATISFY The RIGHT COMBINATION of the world's best cigarette tobacc~s, They're Milder •• They Taste Better Cop)lrl,ghr l939.1JGGE1T & MYEflS \toDAcco Co. Lee 'Bio sr Z-511 Vdl. L:X Alurr Com:l G'lee Tick Concer To Bet At Mol The a: and Dar ha-wk Gc of 'l'hom Joseph ' men of Alumm charge < nounced time a11 committ~ sist in S'-'les. Ticket: have. all' at Jose.p Street, ! and ft·o11 alumni E tees. Adt son, witl $1.50 pet The S, Associat college l dance i scholars resident: ity. At s·cholars royer, Ciesinsk Benjami Schenec· The E Hanigar Burton: Milton Fer dina Jr., NeL Rhoade: Schoolc! Howard man, ar The u eludes I ager of Yunich, dent C George '39, and The ( dance ·r concert. honor at bets of ushers Flyi1 Visii Ref To Of Repr States the car up heE the col nasi urn sica! e: ested i The is to E lege s· for U divisio: ing ex intervi motior One < speak in g. Tho: an ext of the one c cadets montb montr. from statiOJ final , bases to ace will mont! Iowan to q1: ment.

Den easy Phi aill ef- with but John in ng by Phi and Chi, start time Chi the e Phi Man\ Lee Leo Bolley 'Block \lJ\ Speak~r Z.-511 liBRARY • Airmen Heve To I nterviev Siudents V dl. LXII., N0. 46 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1939 PRICE FIVE CEN'ifS Alumn! Appoint •· City-Manager Baker N()ds Approval Col m:mc:'tltbeCfor Ap;·i As President Fox Addresses Alumni 6' ee U oncer•• , Not long age President Fox ad-<eo•~------------­ ,:ctressed' the Rochester Alumni As- 1 \\Z-z-z-z', obliged the Sleeping r.ckets Now o. n Sa e ; sociation. During the evening he ',had an enceunter with Mr. Har- Beauty. Z-z-z-z'. Freshman Camp Made New College FunctioFI. Professor Wilford H. Ketz an- . nounced Wednesday that hence~· forth the annual freshman camp , will be under the control ,of Union College, instead of the Union College Christian .Asso- ciation as has been the case pTe- Leo Bolley, Sports Com,mentator.t Pays Tribute To George Daley Speaker at First Block '·'U\ Day Celebration Gives High Praise to Well Known Writer Who Instituted Method of Honoring Athletes Concert and Dance To Be Held April 14 At Mohawk Golf Club : old Bakez·, '11, City J\il:anager of nochester. An article in the \Roch- 'ester Chronicle\ for March 12 by feature-writer Jack Tucker tells \Doctor Fox stumbled, recovered himself, a;nd carried on-but It was Mr. Baker's round. ' viously. According to a letter issued -by the administration, a standing -faculty committee will have charge of the camp. This com- mittee consists of Professor Ketz, chairman; Dean Chari~ \The real champions are the greatest fellows il1 the world,\ said Leo Bolley, radio sports commentator for Sta- tions WGY, Schenectady, and WFBL, Syracuse, in l\Iernori-81 Chapel today. The exercis.es this morning concluded the fil·st annua:l Block \U\ program honoring 252 Union athletes ;all: \I will give Mr. Baker this: At j \The advance story said that our regular intervals he appeared to The annual G:lee Club Concert: icily manager, Mr. Baker, would make a struggling. plaintive effort and Dance, Apnl ~4, at. the Mo-. introduce the speaker. This was to wake up. The process involved a hawk Golg Club, w1l~ be m charge: not exactly true, as Mr. Baker did sudden shudder that made those of 'l'homas E. Hanmgan and St~n'·not get away from the City .Coun- nearest him-unless they were mer. Joseph who w1ll act as co-chair-,'ci! meeting until 9 : 15 or so. The of strong will-jump nervously. An· men of the _sc.her;ectady .county; :speaker, Doctor Fox-who is presi- other thing: Mr. Baker will, and Alumm Associations co.mm1ttee ln. ,dent of proud little Union College- did, respond to the noise of clap- charge of the affa 1 r, 1t was an-! 'was halfway through his Univer- -ping hands when the room ap- nounc.ed yes.terday. At the same 1 :sity ·Club talk when the door open- plauded a forceful remark by the · 1 d d graduate speaker. Sound asleep, he never- tlme . a umm an un: er , :od and Mr. Baker's rotund, ruddy committees were appomted to as-. :face and more rotund fio-ure en- the less contrived to clap politely, sist in arrangements and ticket: '!:.el ed. There was an em~ty seat along with the boys. sules. :'toward the rear of the small ban· \Well Mr. Baker, our city man- Tickets for the concett and danae' q_uet hall, so Mr. Baker slipped into ager, slept through Doctor Fox's have. already ueen placed on sale: \t quietly. In two minutes Mr. description of Union's famed Hale at Josepn's '-lothing Store on State; Baker was sound asleep. House. He slept through Doctor Street, at the college ·book store,i: \It is an engrossing thing, watch- Fox's analysis of Union'.s engineer- and from the members of both the( ing our city manager sleep. Here lng course, and he slept through alumni and undergt·aduate commit-! is a man who truly appreciates the romance language, science, and tees. Admission is s·et at $1 per per-' the efficacy of calm slumber. pre-law courses. But outside of that son, with a special student rate of: \Mr. Baker drifts away easily l\ne startled stumble when Mr. Baker's first snore rode the ban- $1.50 per couple and $1 singly. . ·and definitely. First, his eyelids i gently close. True, he makes a fee- quet hall, sir, Doctor Fox was su- Dance to Follow : ble but convincing attempt to re- perb. The Schel;ecta<iy county Alumni: ope.n them, but he is not rea~ly \When the speaker finished, Mr. Association annually sponsors tb.e; serlOu.s, ar:d before a':'other nur:- Baker-still asleep-began to clap, college glee club \n a concert and:, ~te his chm sags to hts chest, h~s beating the Union men by a split dance in order to maintain ·its; JOWls relax pleasantly, and he 1s second. As the applause died, Ernie scholarship at Union College for, gone. Houghton, who years ago was th~ residents of Schenectady and vicin-, \Wben Mr. Baker first went to greatest basketball player in Union ity. At pre::ent those holding thei sle~p, only tw.o or. three of . the history and, in fact, one of the best scholarship ate Merlin L. Brock-. Umon men nottced It. They smiled, in the country, !lrose and started myer, '40, of Scotia, Adam F.; and eyed each other in amuse- around the room. Ciesinskl '41 of Schenectady, and: !nent. Doctor Fox kept on talking. \'I want to introduce a few out- Benjami~ Ja:kobowski, Jr.,. '41, of' \Mr. Balmr, our city mana~er, standing Union graduates.' he said, Schenectady. · then began to snore. Soft, nch and paused at Mr. Baker's chair. . 'tt . Judes snores-the snores of a man to 'This is our city manager,' he said. The alumm commt ee me. . whom a snore can be a beautiful Mr. Baker arose, his eyes opening Hanigan, Joseph, Robert Chn~~~··, thing. The Union men, fascinated, on the way up and, bowing in- Burton De lack, Dr. James M. D. •· craned their necks and began to stinctively, a c k now I e d g e d the Milton M. Enzer, Fred W. Fisab, watch Mr. Baker. -cheers.\ Ferdinand Helm, John Marcellus,.--------------------------------- Jr., Nelson W. Nitchman, Malcolm: Rhoades, Louis Rinaldi, J. Leslie Schoolcraft, Francis H. Shields, Howard Van Voast, Clifton Vvoo~ man, and Frederic A. Wyatt. The undergraduate committee in· eludes Rollin :r.,. Twining ,'.39, man· ager of the Glee Club; David L. Yunich, '39, president of the Stu- dent Council; Henry Clay, '39, George Miller, '40, Robert Simmon~. '39, and Louis J. Carr, '40. The Garnet Goblins will furnish dance music immediately after the concert. The Garnet Key Society, honor at y society composed of mem· ber s of the junior class. will act as ushers at the concert. ----o---- Flying Corps Men Visit Campus Today Representatives of Army To Conduct Examinations Of Prospective Cadets Critic Considers Current Drama John Mason Brown Reviews teading New York Plays In Wednesday Lecture Contemporary drama still has much to \get excited about,\ ac- cording to John Mason Brown, critic of the \New York Evening Post,\ who spoke before an en- ·thusiastic audience in the Memorial Chapel Wednesday night under the auspices of the Schenectady Col- lege Women's Club. Katherine Hepburn and Maurice E:vans, who js currently playing the lead role in \Hamlet were the re- ·cipients of much of the !lpeaker's lively comment. He believed \Ham- let\ as produced by Miss Margaret Webster, with Evans in the starring bracl!et to be outstanding in the delineations of the original melan- choly Shaltespearean character, be- Cooperative Buying Plan Dropped for the Present The position of the Adminis- tration on the proposed coopera- tive buying of milk was ex- plained recently by Dean Garis. After conferences with rep- resentatives of the association of milk distributors for this section, the administration of the college has decided that, in view of the present unsettled condition of the milk industry, it would not press the project for cooperative buying of milk at this time. New Sub-Librarian At Work Monday Kenneth Hayes, Graduate Of North Carolina in '36, Succeeds J. C. Shipman F. F. Garis, Dr. William W. Ben.- nett, Professor Franklin C. Chil1- rud, and Dr. Augustus H. Fox. , who received their awards yesterday. ----~-------~---<~· \No real champion ever got to Under the new organi:lati()n, the faculty committee will have complete control of the camps : and will be free r.o rormulate -its policies. Mr. Ketz will continue in his capacity as director alld Burton H. Oldmsted. '40, will !be f ropicallsland the top without work,\ he con- tinued, \and it was and is -w<>rk which made him a human being student director. To Be Prom Setting Fraternities Requested To Harmonize Booths With Gym Decorations Library Undergoi1ng:; L B k L , The Prom Committee announced a rg e . 00 osses :recently that a tropical island set- . ting will .be tha theme ·of the decor- D ·sappearance of Volumes! ali<?ns for the annual Junior _Prom I : which wzll be held on May 6 m the May Result in Loss of : Alumni gym~asium. The commit- Privileges Given Students ', tee had prevwusly announced that the charge for booths would be $2(), Because of the systematic iloot- payable by April 29. ing of library books recently, the. In keeping with the tropical library may have to make arrange-: island theme, the various fraternity ments for a new plan in the usage: groups have been asked to have of books by the students, Helmer L.' their furniture in the booths blend Webb, librarian, indicated yester-· with the decorations as much a.s day. The majority of the missing; possible. They are asked to use no books are used in the biology and' Iloor lamps along with their fur- social studies courses, he add~d. nishings, for special lighting ef- All the anatomy bOoks, excepl for feels will be employed in the ilium- two very old ones, critical material ination of the booths. on Milton, and several volumes of Wave Effect Used the \Supreme Court Reporter,\ are listed among the missing. Mr. Wel>b also reported that several' private books belonging to professors have disappeared. Students Hamperoo According to Mr. Webb, this t:~pe of stealing has been continuing regularly for several years. Tl1e U- . bray may have to adopt a ne.w plan after spring vacation, t~ reraedy this situation, whereby a persoa on the library staff will get every -bo<>k or magazine that a student -.;vants fro mthe shelves, he added. This would mean, that the basement and the second floor would he closed, and students would not he per- mitted to browse around for b<>oits. An addition of two persons to thE library staff to do this wo1·ir seven hours a day each, would cost !hE library $150 a month. \Some of the books arc ta.l1e.n out of the library without •being tecorded early in the semEster and are kept until the end of the year. This hampers the other stllllen ts who wish to use the book and can't find a copy.\ The ceiling will be covered with· an evening blue fabt'ic, and the sidewalls under the balcony will be masked by dark green material. A dark green wave effect against a blue background will cover the walls connecting the gymnasium and apparatus room. The booths will be constructed to represent cabanas along a beach, and they will be lighted with indirect illuminating fixtures. In the center of the dance floor, an island covered with imitation grass will be constructed, with an artificial palm tree mounted on it. The bandstand will be covered with green burlap and will have two artificial palm trees on the two front corners. Red and silver draperies will be hung behind the stand as a background. The faculty booth will be situated at the en- trance end of the gymnasium, dec- orated with green fabric and artifi- cial palm trees. ----o---- Mountebanks Trip Posponed Due to Stars Illness \There are two types of' ·Cham- pions: 'I'hose who work and those who get credit. One o:f the greatest teachings of athletics is to always play the game hard.\ The speaker spoke of Dicit Kert\ a pitcher in the \Blaclt Sox\ series, as one who had received no ·credit, but was deserving. He alsO> told the story of Rabbit Maz·aa ville's pluck after his career had' been snapped by a fractured leg;: and commented, \he • is a real cham- pion.\ Lauds Knutc Rockne Bolley said that one of the great- est men he ever had the honor- of meeting was George Daley-, 92, former .sports editor of the New York \Herald Tribune,\ who found- ed the Block \U\ Dinners ill. 1~27, which are now being replaced by Black \U\ Day. \He was a- great dynamic, and fearless fightel:' .. We of the sports world lost a great man.\ The speaker paid a tribute to sports writers as the me1:1 vvho sit in judgment, \and we in Amer- ica are fortunate in having fair ones.' 1 The sports commentator p()illt- .ed to the fact that eight years .ago this afternoon \a great spoz-ts fig- ure fell out of the skies. His name was Knute Rockne. It is sign\li- cant that Union Vollege has chosen this day to honor its athletes.\ In addition the speaker !:'elated seveeal amusing incidents m ncern· ing radio broadcasting and eom- mentating. On Thursday morning, th:e fol- lowing men were honored by- pres- entation of awards for particl]lation in varsity, freshman, and intra- mural athletics. Vai'Sity :Football null Jacob Amazon, '39, Dona.ld F. Henderson, '39, Sumner B. Ir-ish, 39, Raymond T .. Lewis, '39, William r. Thomas, '39, Jesse R. Sllernan, Manager, '39, Wallace· F. BakEr, '40, Merlin L. Brockmyer, '40, Freli A. Burns, '40, Samuel C. HanJ.mer- strom, Captain-Elect, '40, Rkb.ard D. Kearns,. '40, John S. Kmll, 4(}, William B. Lynn, '40, Fredet·ick J. Patrie, '40, Donald C. Glenn,. 40, and H. Donald Wells,. '40, Co-J'I.[an- The Mountebanks' second sched· agers-Elect, Richard L. Balch, '41, uled road trip with Ibsen's \Ros- James L. Bothwell, '41, Dlalt10]ld J. mersholm\ for an appearance at Marotta, '41, Robert A. Molloy, '41; Representatives of tile United: cause Evans \portrayed a man of States Army Air Corps arrived on action, not a study in dyspepsia.\ the campus this afternoon and set He thought that all \the secondary up headquarters in the offices of actors in the play came to life also.\ the college physicians at the gym- \Abe Lincoln in Illinois\ by Rob- nasium. The officers will give phy- ert E. Sherwood, ''portrays the sica! examinations for those inter- emergence of a confused great ested in Army flying careers. ma·n,\ Mr. Brown said. \It's. tragic The primary object of the fliers action comes from the actmg of is to ep.list candidates among col- Raymond Massey, the young Lin- lege students graduating in June coln of the debates.\ He said, for the recently enlarged cadet \Katherine Hepburn's new play by division of the Air Corps. Follow- Philip Barry, 'Philadelphia Story,' ing examinations and preliminary shows Miss Hepburn has grown interviews, the visitors will show enormously as an actress.\ Kenneth C. Hayes, who succeeds Joseph. C. Shipman as assistant col- lege librarian, will assume b:is new duties Monday morning, April 3, ac- cording to Helmer L. Webb, libra- rian. Mr. Webb said, ''Hayes' back- ground in science should be espe- cially valuable. Students will find him quite an asset, personally as well as professionally.\ At the present time, Mr. ·VVebb is checking on the books on Dr. Waiter C. Langsam's social studies 22 reading list. Many of the l>ooks reported on by Dr. Langsam's class have not been signed for in the library. ----10---- New Washburn Hall St.,re Will Open Monday, April I 0 On Monday, April 10, whEn the college re~pens after the Spx in.g re- cess, the bookstore will 'be located in the north wing of the reh:al>ili- tated Washburn Hall, instead of in the rear of the Administt\ation Building, as in the past. The new location will afford about t'l;llo and a half times as much spaee for stock and will be much larger than the old location, accoi'ding t~; .M:rs. He~en Jenkins, manage~: ()f the the Potsdam Normal School last· \aUa\ night was postponed Wednesday William A. Busino, '4(), Leo J. when it was definitely learned that Dwye 1 ·, '40, Adam P. Ciesins;ltl, • 4 1, the company's feminine lead, Mrs. .John c. Gilbert, • 4 1, Aug-ust v. Viola Paterson, would be unable to Kluge, '41, George w. Nmris, 41, travel because of an attack of John E. Vannier, '41, Morris Wein- .grippe. Mrs. Paterson plays the 1 ' 0 le traub; '41, Roger D. Marshall, '41, of Rebecca West in the produc- and c. Raymond OstrandEr '41, tion Which was presented on the Assistant Managers-Elect. ' campus March 3, 5, and 6, and March 9 at the Albany Institute of Varsity Cross-Country motion pictures in the 01~ Chap~L Dividing historical plays into One o~ the representatives Will , two groups, the speaker classed speak m Chapel tomorrow morn-. them as \the eloquent dramas ing which do not seek the truth of his- Cadets Receive Salary torical fact and those which seek Those men who enlist will have· •to recreate history.\ . Contin~lng, an extensive training course ah.ead he said, \We like to thmk of kmgs of them. Beginning their service a.t· -as speaking. eloquently, but when one of 15 selected schools, the a lnng abd.tcates, we no sooner cadets will graduate after tht·ee ·leave the mwrophone than we b~­ mo ths to Randolph Field's three gin to wonder how much of h1s mo~th course. Upon \graduation\ ·speech Chamberlain and how mu~h from there,. the students will be John . Masefield wrote. Only m stationed at Kelly Field for their' Washmgton at present .. do we take final conditioning. Classes at :both eloquence for granted. bases have recently been enlarged Getting back to the Hepburn to accommodate 700 students, \'ivlto play which opened Tuesday night, will receive a salary of $75 a Brown predicted that it would be month. Cadets will receive an al~ one of the season:s successes. He Jowance of $1 per day in addithm unquestionably characterized \The to quarters, uniferms and equip- Wbite Steed\ by Paul _vincent Car- ment. roll, as the best foretgn play. A southerner, Kenneth Hayes once was offered a scholarship to Union, but refused it because of in- convenience, and' matriculated at the University of North Carolina instead. He majore·d in Physics and minored in Philosophy and German. While an undergx·aduate, be won the James Buchanan prize thesis. After graduation in 1936, the new librarian returned to college and was awarded his A. B. degree in Library Science. He served as an assistant in the technical division of the New York Public Library during 1937 and was appointed li- bra:dan of a division of the Tennes- see Valley Authority library system late in the same· year. He held this position until recently when he 1 e- ceived his appointment to Union. Hayes will do work similar to that done by Shiprnah, who accept- ed a position as head of the tech- nology department of the· Toledo Public l.Jibrary board January 3. History and Art. \U\ Despite the difficulty of keeping Peter S. Owens, '39, M:all..ager, the play alive until that date,· (Continued on Page 4) \Rosmersholm\ will play at Pots-. o---- dam the evening of April 20. It is Commence Programs reported that 1200 tickets for the A 1 bl performance have been sold·. vai a e for Ordering o Ril>el DeGesero, chairman of the senior committee for al1nl>unce- Nott Memorial Library ments and programs, stat.ed that establishment. Receives Barney Statue orders are now being t~lten for commencement announcements. The deadline for orders Is May 1 and all orders must be placed by that time. Work on the new stm·e is }lrac- A tribute to the late Dr. Edgar tically finished, and all tllat l'e- S. Barney, Secretary of the Board mains to be done during the -va.ca.- of Trustee of u · 0 c 11 d s m n o ege an tion is the transferring o:f the Principal of the Hebrew Technical stock from the Administration. Building. The new location has a Institute, has been placed in the stock room adJ'ace•nt t() it, a fea- Nott Memorial library in the ft>rm. of a bronze bust. ture that was lacked in the vast. The statuary, which was present- Mrs. Jenkins also said that all' ed to Union in accordance with students are invited to visit tl:ie new Dr. Barney's wishes,. was originally. location,. aft(!r the vacatl()n, to given to him by the alumni of the inspect the stock and an ex.po- Hebrew Technical Institute of sition of photographs which will be which he was the principal for on display at that time. many years. The other members of the com- mittee with whom orders may be placed are James Wade, Edward Wells, and John Schultz, president of the senior class. In addition to the reguLa1· sheet announcements, there, are-two type!3 of .program booklets availa.ble. One form has a garnet pebbl€d leather cover and the other has a white cardboard cover.

Page Two ~); Qln.urnr ~~~ !litunin Fou: 1877 \II. Causa Persa Parole llssai\ ~lembe<\ of the ARsociateu Collegia:te Press and !Ji~trl butr:1r <lf the Collegiate Digest. 'l'he official newspap~r 'Of the students of Union College. Published Tuesday and Fridays through- ou l the college year. Editorial Rooms, Silliman Hall, U11lon Collru>;e Cam· 11us. 'PeleiJhone, Sthe-nel:tady, 4·0133. I' ublictLtlon Oirlce, The Gazette Press, 834 State St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephone 4-HH Entered at the Schenectady Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter. Subscription price Five cents a copy; $3.00 a year; delivered a.nywhere in the Unite<!_Sta\-t'-'e.=.s. __ Senior Board Lawrence V. Pellettier, Jr ....... Editor-in-Chief 24 N, S. South College ~6-9728 Max Len .•.... , ..... , .. , ... Business Manager Kappa Nu House--4-7331 c . .Russell Deyo ...... , ...... :Managing Editor Chi Psi Lodge-- 4-6527 Ciu'istopher M. Fahy ...... , .... Sports Editor Delta Upsilon House·-4-7922 Geo1•ge Loadwick Peck .......... News Editor 1278 Parkwood Blv'd-4-9208 Edwin A. Fitz, Jr ............. Feature Editor Lambda Chi Alpha Huu.~e-· 4-0531 John !\Ialone . , .......... Circulation Manager 1091 Keyes Ave.- .. 4-6931 ------------------------------------ REPRESENTED FOR NATIOI't,\.L ADVERHSING B\( National Advertising Service, Inc. College Pr1blishers Re{Jreset~tative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORKtN. Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON ' LOS ANGEI..E9 • SAN FRANCISCO Paul Becker Sheldon Jenkins John Lewis Juni(}r Board John Phillips Hobert Schulberg James Twining 8ophom01e Board Alexander Arony, Armand Fiegenbaum, John Grow, Samuel Portnoy, Jonathan Peal son Business Staff Robert Eisner Jaclt RabiJwNitz, !Jonnl<l Haigh, Lasl<ar Schwa'rtz, Arthur Dnvi~. A·ndy Kay, Justin Perlstein, Stanley Greenstein, ~Iyron >tills. Issue Editor ....................... Paul Beeker J.. Lt'\\ i!' A!\~htaut\' ,J. }'e:\J'l-HIJI .\ .. \ rnny Friday, :\ia1 ch 31, 1939 ONLY TWO DISSENTERS? On l\londay night President Fox and Dean Garis presented to the Interfraternity Coun- cil a plan for changing the date of fraternity initiations to the first weekend in Decembel'. That date was accepted after a very short period of debate. Since then a gt·eat deal of controversy has arisen among the fraternity men as to the desirability of this change. ln an attempt to determine the facts of the situation, the \Concordiensis\ has asked each fraternity to write a letter to the edi- tor stating its views on the subject. No at- tempt was made to obtain responses eithel' favoring or objecting to the change. Twelve fraternities have written letters, all of which are printed on this page. From the evidence contained here, we feel that im- proper consideration was given to the meas- ures before their passage. On a matter of such importance to the fraternities, these groups should certainly be consulted and given an opportunity io present their views. In this case, many of the houses were not infonned that the De- cember date was being considered. Their representatives went to the council meeting prepared to discuss the l\Iarch date which had been formerly proposed. Quite evidently the reason why no more opposition to the proposals made by Dr. Fox and Dean Garis materialized was that the representatives had no idea as to what the sentiments of their houses would be, and hesitated to argue the point in the face of the strong arguments put forth by President Fox and the Dean. The number .of opinions which we have found to be opposed to the change clearly indicate that the administration is erroneous in its belief that only two houses dissent, as was claimed at the meeting. We feel that the administration \sprang\ the measures upon the fraternities as a surprise, and hur- ried the proposal through before any oppo- sit-ion could be formed. Such a move .either was not intended, and should be reconsidered and debated further, or is not in keeping w-ith Union's tradition as the Mother of Fraternities. We urge, on the basis of this further evidence, that the Interfraternity Council take up the matter for further consideration at its next meeting and ask the administration to reconsider its ha.sty action. THE CONCORDIENSTS, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1939 ACCOUNTING RENDER'ED I e1·1·1· Several weeks ago a petition was placed .·.. I N T H E M A I L 0n the bulletin board calling attention to the . · • factth~thepresent SS3Scourse inCo~o~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ation Finance would next year be combined. ~vith th:e SS 40 course in Accounting. The petition pointed out that juniors taking SS, 38 who wished to .study accounting next fall would be fot·ced to duplieate their work in Corporation Fhtance, and asked that this ·condition be remedied. •EDITOR'S NOi'E: I:n an at- •Best Possible Cb.oice that the pure formal rituaJ will temvt ·to determine the senti- To the Editor: give the new men a truer picture ments of the various fraterni- The changing of the college initia- of the coJolegiate fraternity. It is ties on the ·recently adopted tion ·date from February 26 or that the chapters hope that aJ.l the change in the ·initiation date regiom to that of the first week ·house~ on the ·campus will coop- and the abolition of \Hell of Decernbe1· may ,be sai·d to have er·ate completely to assure the sue- Week,\ \The ·Conoordiensis\ so- both advantages and disadvantages .. · cess of the two ~esolutions. licited 'letters fl'{)Ill these fra- The date of the last week in Feb- --- ter'llities, asl<ing them to state ruary was excetlent in vtew of Unequivocal Approbation t11e opinion of tlu'iir respestive marks and of course a n~~:lisan~e as · To the Editor: houses. T·hese letters foll()w, far· as athletics go. The date of the Tlie feeling of this chapter with Perfiaps indii·ectly as a result of this re- ___ .:lrst weelt in December is the best regard to the change in i·nitiation ·quest, Professot· Bronner, ChairmaR of the· Rn'Jroadt'ng substitute that could ·be had, espe- date and. the elimination of \Hell - cially for the initiation of an up- ·week\ .is one of unequivocal ap- Divisioa of Social Studies, recently an- To the Eclitor: perclassrnan. In view of all ,the .• probation. There is everything to noun:ced that next fall a special non-credit If Union were any other college facts ·considered with a change he gained .by moving up the initia- . · A ·t' 'll b ff d t • ·in the country, there would prob- deemed necessary, the new date tion period and nothing t(} be lost. sectiOn m ccoun mg \Vl e 0 ere · 0' aby be by this time a great up- seems the best possible choice. Concerning the abolition of \Hell members of the class of 1940 who are study- roar concerning the fine job of Week,\ we ha:ve a:lways feLt that it ·. , C , , . . F' th' Cl . · railroading that the administra- Whole-Hearted Approval was childishly grammar-schoolish, .1ng OlpOtatwn mance IS year. asses Ill· tion accomplished the other eve- ±lear Sir: · and a poor psychological prepara- . this section wHl m.eet ene night a week, and .ning at the Iaterfi·atern1ty Council I want to take this opportunity tion for what purports to be a se- , 1· h . h . d't t .~ . d . t' - 11 . b meetirrg. It is perhaps admirable of placing us on 1>ecord as be- rious formal induction. ·a .t oug no ere 1 owarN. gra ua lOll WI ' e that the students here do notre- ·ing whole-heartedly in favor o·f the --- ,;given for the work, its su.ccessful cmnpletion sort to strll~:es or some such crude change of the date of initiations to P.ractical Idea · th · d · ·the first weekend in December. To the Editor: ,'will be indicated on the permanent college· t;'ethod 0 ~ exp_re.ssmg. eu· · 1 s-. F·rom ·the standpoint ·Of the Col- The attl··tude of th1's chapter on hkes for adm1mstratwa tactics. · l'ecord of the student. The intelligence level of the stu- lege this earlier date has many ad- .the abolition of \HeH Week\ and dent body seems high enough to vantages, particularly S·ince it elimi- {he moving up of initiation date is ; There are many to whom this new ar-~ consider pl'Oblems logically. .nates interference of initiations .that it is a practical idea. \Hell ' rangement will not seem satisfactory. They The complete ignoring by the with athletic schedules. From the Week\ in the past has been little · administration uf the ,popular opin- fraternities' standpoint w.e can see move than a vestigial reminder of will argue that they will really be can-ying ion on the campus in the present 110 really sel'ious objections in view an old tradition, having long ago 1 an extl'a course for whieh they will receive situation can be taken as nothing of the information given by DeaB' become a formalized practice. The but a slur upon the mentality of the Garis regarding the correlation be- trouble arising between faculty and . no credit if they em·oll in this section. The students. The problem that has tween initiations and scholastic students on this acc<mnt will be , thoug~ht of an evening class will be distaste- been so nicely \solved\ for us is standing at the end of the first alleviated. The unity and uniform- one that concet·ns the fraternities marking period. ity resulting from this change wi11 ' ful to many others. These objections, in directly. And in the solution of it, The elimination of Hell-Week is Pl'(}Ve distinctly beneficial in the i theit• own light, are sound. very little, in fact it might be said deilnitely a step forward in putting long run. not any, consideration has been an end .to nonsense which properly --- On the other hand, however, it must be shown for the fraternities' opin- belonged in the rah-rah era of ... And on Chapel Speakers 1 remembered that this section in accounting ions. American colleges. I think this Dear Editor: To me, it appea;rs to nave been a may be looked upon as the matura is merely intended as an accommodation to very high-handed move. The very lion of fraternities at Union. May I suggest that the coJ.lege those men in the class of 1940 who will be least that could be said about it is --- administration hire Sally Rand or that it was exhemely tactless. Inconsistent Policy Hedy Lamarr for a future chapel affected by the combination of the SS 38 What have the students done to To the •Editor: program, Or maybe Tony Galento. and SS 40 ·courses. It is but a measUl'e t 0 convey the idea that they are in- The sentiments of this chapter I'm sure they'd be more interest- capable of solving their own prob- regarding the change of the ing than that loud-mouthed Dr. ' bridge the tl'ansition .p.er-iod, and apparently !ems? initiation date have brought forth Allen Stockdale who spoke in is the most suitable arrangement to be £everal objections. The change, by chapel Tuesday. the wa·:,-, appears to be inconstste,~ Did he speak of the nefarious found. Seventl other plans to offer account- Dictatorship 'with the poJ.icy of deferred rush- deeds of the N.A.M. in strike- ing work were considered before the present To the Editor: ing fot·merly advocated by the ad- breaking, labor spying and revenge- It has come to America at last, ministration. Above aU, tha new ful discharging? No, he distorted one was adopted. A l'egular credit course in apd Union takes the lead as a!- date would not give the ~h'l.pter the facts of two Kentucky labor accounting is impossible, since the Social ways. We saw Monday night a fair opportunity to learn \\hethm· ~ases so as to ridicule the Wagner d . h fi1•st class example of dictatorship. the pledges' scholarship standing Labor Act. Then he quoted some Studies Division WO·uld be excee mg t e at worl\. would warrant initiation. Inasmuc;1 misleading statistics from a sup- num:ber of courses that it is allowed to give. Recently the representatives to as there have been initiations late posed \scientific investigation\ to the Interfraternity Council were in the year. we can see that cnap- the effect that the Roosevelt Ad- asked to consider the changing of te1·s unwilling to comply with the ministration was mainly guilty for initiation to March for the con- new date can hold late initiations, the present under investment. Did venience of the Athletic Depart-: if they· wish, through arrange- he tell the nature of the \scientific ment. Our House di.:;cussed and ments with the Dean. If such IS investigation?\ No, it probably wa.s agreed to such a move. At the the case, what ·is the necessity for a poll taken within the N.A.M., a So there you are petitionet·s. You asked for cake and received b1·ead. Now it's up to you to ~how Whethet· you were sincere in your l'equest for accounting work, or if you merely signed a petition. because it was the smart thing to do. CULLS FROM THE PRESS In an anti--gambling crusade, Colorado Police tour- ed Philips County in a truck confiscating slot rna- chines. Unlo·ading their haul ba<!k at the county jail they discovered among the spoils, a well-fiHed cash registee. * * School offici'als in Cleveland ordered a b(}nfire for 100 copies of \Louisiana th-e Finest,\ a publication of the Louisiana Department of Agriculture and• Im- mig·ration. The decree ca;me after one of the mem- bers of the school board discovered on pa.ge 34 a comely blonde dressed simply in a few stalks of sugar cane and ·captioned, \Lots of Louisiana Sweetness;\ on page 50; a o-runette with scanty cos- tume strung from ri·ce grains and the title \Lou- i8iana rice malws them perfect;\ and so on through the 216 page .brochure. At Baton Rouge, La., Charles E. Frampton, stat€ publicity director said: \Th-e only reason I can see that they would burn the books is that Louisiana girls are ,pretUer t'han the ones in Ohio.\ .. * • Richard Hugh Richards sat in jail and laughed at the politicians, social dowa..gers, and young wo-men who for Eix months had accepted. him as a noted \for·eign con e~!.pondent.\ The second cook on the . good s·hip Aquitania tried· l1is luck on a lecture tour from New York to Denver. Pr·esona:ble and glib, affecting an English accent, Richar.ds put to goo.d use his knowledge of .the ''situation in Central Eu- rope.\ His neme.sis came when he neglected to pay a bill in a Denver Hotel>. . . . * * • In Trieste, Italy an engineer named Amadi pat- ented .a useful invention for automobiles. If anyone starts a car in which the device has been set, the engine automatically stops, the doors Jock and a siren starts howling to tell everyone there is a thief inside. E. C. RETARTYK OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES In order to overcome the deficit incurred by an inter-fraternity ball, the inter-fraternity coun· cil at SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY is sponsoring a dance to be known as the \Interfraternity Eig<ht Ball.\ • • * Members of the class of 1944 at WORCESTIDR POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE will pay a tuition of $400. The .tuition at present is $330. • The \Spectator dally newspaper at COLUM- BIA UNIVERSITY recently had a one-line edi- torial: \Sorry Boys, Midyears.\ • • * The Pan-Hellenic coun~il at COLGATE UNI- VERSITY unanimously adopted' a p·r(}posal to shorten the rushing perl()d from seven days to five days. Rushing will be started on AprJl 13, and Will cl<>se on April 17. meeting Monday night for ac- the neaw measure? notoriously reactionary group op- tion on this point, the adminis- Complete A~ord posed to Roosevelt's social, eco- tration suggested December. It The Concordiensis: nomic and political reforms. was hashed over, and received deft- dat My purpose in writing was not In regard to .the changed e nite objections ~rom three houses. of initiations to fraternities, w to defend Roosevelt's program. (It The majority of ·the other repre- fail to see how it will benefit the needs no defense.) But rather t<J sentatives were undecided, since e call attention to how that small college. If, however, the college they didn't possess the opinions of authoi·ities feel it desirable, ther time preacher linked democrac:y their respective houses; but under e and American freedom to Ameri- pressure of the administration bloc, ~i~e:~h~o f~:te~~li~y 0 ~~n v:#~r.o~j~: can industry and the N.A.M.; bow they had to admit they had no ob- is the question of whether or not he suggestively linked the capital- jections. It was then declared surplus tax and the administration passed, and a rule. ~~~Yn~~eda~~a:!l~ g~;e f~~!s!;a\~~! to dictatorship and the American It seems a very high-handed ,nob::tble future of the pledges in way. He thought it clever to flag method of passing a rule that the college. As the Dean has a! wave by comparing the American affects all active and even inactive and Russian productions of auto- fraternity men. Why were the rep- realdy p~inted out that then~ is mobiles. It is his type who, with on Y a Slight change in ~he marlis their propaganda and oratory, w1'll resentatives not given time to get :Jf ft·eshmen between the Noven:: the majority opinion of their re- ber marking period, and the !md have American youth fight to pre- .spective houses? year marks, this objectio. 1 is re serve \big business\ and the in- Yours for Representative Rule, moved. We therefore fe~l in com dustrialists, camouflaged as the ,1 Iete aC<!Ol d with the college au American spirit. It is his· type who Continue Present Date To the Editor: As fa1· a,; changing the date goes, this house feels that it would be better to continue with the pres· ent date or else advance it into March. We feel that a longer pledgesl:ip would be of more bene- fit to the freshmen and that the period from September to Decem- ber will prove too sho!'t . In t egard to \bell-week this fraternity feels that the abolish· ment of it would mean the destruc· tion of a long period tradition. Against FrateJ•nity Interests To the Editot·: With regards to the recent pro· posal of the .administration con- cerning the new date for frater- nity initiations we feel that such a proposal is decidedly against the interests of the many fraternities at Union College because: 1<) The interval between Thanks- giving 1·ecess and Christmas vaca- tion is too short to afford time for the many preparations which initiation requites. <2) It does not afford time for the fraternity to have a representa- tive view of each pledge's marks. (3) The date heretofore used breaks up more advantageously the long seige of inactivity between Christmas and Easter. (4) The short. interval, here pro- posed, between pledging and initia- tion does not give either the pledge or the .chapter time to be- come fully acquainted with each other . We feel, therefore, that anY' fur- ther action by the administration regarding such a pr:oposal should be taken up with the consent of a large majority of the fraternities. compl'ises the American tr11-dition thorities in the new phn. of freedom within industrial me- Gross Injustice nopoly and trust. And yet would To the Edjtor: have us fight for such a decadent As representatives of one of the industr:allsm! Mind you, all of this national fraternity organizations comes under the, \impossibitly of on the campus, we feel that a gross dictatorship in America.\ injustice has been committeed by If I haven't made myself cleai', the Administration towards ours as I repeat, that as a UNION man :l well as many other fraternity refuse to sit through what I did g10u;:s. Tuesday, and have the college Adc The Administration has dogmat ministration think I was fo()l ically presented its outline for a enough to believe that Stockdale change in the fraternity initiation was dispassionate, rational, and date without consulting or giving educational. He is but one of the any consideration to the· constitu- m a n Y despicable propagandists ent.s of the groups thusly affected filling this country. I am willing We realize that the Administration to listen to the other side when It has control over the activities of is so labeled and not distorted, fraternities during Hell Week, but THE AMERICAN WA 'Y. we do not believe that it should advance the date of formal initia tions, ceremonials sacred to every fl·aternity man, without consult:. tion with the groups involved. The two month period which has been substracted from t):le ordinary ple·dge period is necessary to deter mine the desirability of late pledges as well as those entering in Sep tember. If Union College is still to be hailed the Mother of Fraternities acticn must be taken by a united ft·on t of those fraternities when the minor rights and privileges of those groups are infringed upon. Eal'lier Date An Aid To the Editor: We· wish to ex,press our approva of the recent change in initiation date and the abolition of \He! Week.\ The chapter has always ~elt that an earlier initiation date would' be a· decided aid to frater nities. Insofar as \Hei! Week\ Is concemed, it is high time that the fraternities awoke to the fact that the institution is ante-dated and DENTISTRY The field 'Of dentistry today offers• to colleeg students an attractive ca- reer. It provides a worthy Intel- lectual challenge, a life of profes-. sional service with satisfactory In~' come, and an opp·ortunity for re- search and teaching in this division' of medical science and art. The University of Pennsylvania· has prepared more than six thou-· san,d, graduates who are occupyl)'lg' pos1twns of importance in the pro- fession throughout the w.orld. Its' course of instruction is of the high-' est order. Anyone interested In this profes- sion as a life wo·rk is invited to apply for further informatit>n to The Dean of the School of Dentistry. University of Pennsylvania 40th & Spruce Streets Philadelphia, Pa. lis.rt .. ··. ~lllllii=- .. ·l .... *.· .. 1.: Starting TODAY! . Lorretta Young, Warner Baxter i:J1 'WIFE, HUSBAND ANll FRIE:NU\ 2nd Big Hit Ja~lde Cooper, Freddie Bru·t!IOioDJe\1'' in \SPIRiT OF CULVER'' Fres Two Lc y, Only c freshm.a du1·ing- t which l sity .Jac: .players suw.e th th.e fT,e: baseba'll ing the '!'he v vacatior versity, Htght 1 ·S t1ce on on. 'J:hu u~en Ul cause o uitions. been h• uandi<lE Uay ar Ric have Gord{)n Dickins H.ay L' Canfie'lc myer; LOb Sl er t Cor l'i After tice, th its ind< April 6 of \Cl ••fJv,-cde Mike : are sh! conti <Jl Uthe lcoi{ed the hu termin drill. I ditions shor.tly Fr Fred man 1 four g ule h• yearlir leave will pl more Th.e more over 1 Rolan· the G aft ern sched1 travel nic Ir ove1· in tbe Nav:y freshr 4 and yearli Schco will c again Naval Las man1 not h ·ule .t seaE High the ~ plebe a rai• Th' actus can. i snow HOVI< tione II

wiU ture t is the suc- with 'Hell ap- g to lost. 'Hell' it para- a se- on and is \Hell little of ago . The y and be form- wiJ.l the oHege nd or Dr. in arious labor some sup- to It .Ad- for Did Jy was a op- eco- not (It her to small how tration to flag auto· with will to pre- in· the pe -who a! mo· would of this of cleai', man I I did Ad' fool ockda.le and of tbe willing it WAY. offers: ive ca- lntel- profes-, ·In- re- thou-' pro- Its: e high- profes-· !ted to to THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MARCH 3-1, 1939 'Freshman Ten to Ma!ke Vacati~on Trip; Two Vars~ities Will Shorten Recess, lacrosse and Diamond Squads Return Thursday.; 'Yearling Nine Cut; Eleven Out for Frosh Golf Only one spring sports te!l!IU; the~--------------­ freshm.an lacrosse outfit, wilL travel' h' h h 'll during- trre annual< Spring Vacation. r.rc Of ethWI which begins tomorrow. 'The vaor- 1 ~~~ . • ese take on the spring fourteen, nine have experience in Ia- sity lacrosse and varsity diamond a .prevwus Cl'OSSe .players return next Tuesday to re- Th · . . lntramurals NEUTRALS WIN BOXING Men Competing Total Neutrals . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 75.000 Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . 3 60.000 Beta Theta Phi . . . . . . 2 55.000 Lambda Chi Alpha . . 2 50.000 Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . 3 40.000 Phi Sigma Delta . . . . 2 40.000 Phi Gamma Delta . . 2 25.000 Phi Delta Theta . . . . . 1 25.000 Chi Psi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 10.000 Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . 1 .000 South College 1 .000 22 su·Me the•r practice sessions, while· . e men, fift~en candtdates who th.e keshman gol.f and freshman WII•l make t~e trip are: D. K. :Blake, baseba:JI squads wHI >be idle dur- C. E. Bowdrsh, J. El. Foley, W. A. ing the recess. Harkness, H. A .. Lawrance, R. B. ·1·he vars1.ty ten had scheduled a· Lowe, J. A. Marsrcano, R. L. New- vacation game with Syracuse Uni-· ton, R. W. Nothacker, K. W. Reyn- 3-WAY TIE IN WRESTLING versity, ·but it was cancelled last. aids, F. G: Richards, R. H. Rogers, Men E.1ght, so the candidates will .prac- Cb ?· Strles, E. J. Ward, J. C. Competing Total tlce on the campus from Thursday 0 · nen, manager. Phi Sigma Delt . . . . . . 3 :1:00.000 on. '.thus far the lacrosse men have Yearling Nine Cut Lambda Chi Alpha ·.. 3 100.000 lJc.en unable to work outsicl..e, .l>e- Twelve hopeful .fr·eshmen hung Chi Psi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 4 100.000 cause of unfavorable weather con- up their baseball gloves today as Delta Upsilon · · · · · · · 4 91.868 o.itions. L;onditioning workouts have the yearling squad suffered its first Kappa Alpha · · · · · · · · 3 91.868 been he.d m Alumni Gymnasium.' cut at the hands of Coach Hal Witt-· Phi Sigma Kappa · · · 3 75.620 candidates are: \:a-captains Hank. ner. The squad now has t-wenty-two Phi Delta Theta · · · · · 3 67.496 Uay and Doug Blue, •Pat1l Rieger, men on its roll and Wittner an- 'Delta Chi · · · · · · · · · · · · 3 67.496 Richard Balch, Ronnie Ostrander, nounced that another cut will fol- !Phi Gamma Delta · · · 4 59.372 Gord()n Parker, Will·iam Wardwell, low later in the season. Theta Delta Chi · · · · · 2 56.868 Dickinson Griffith, Mike Stillman,' In speaking of his squad Hal said Beta Theta Pi · · · · · · · 2 56.868 Ray Lewis, Robert Molloy, John· that the pitchers have a.s yet had South College · · · · · · · · 2 48.744 C fi ld M I . F L B k 0 t 't t· t t . Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . 5 43.124 an e , er m ay, arry roc - n o.ppor um y or rme a ge mto .Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . 1 24 .3 72 myer, Chuck Passe, Paul Mara, shape. At present he has three Lob Slatterly, Wally Baker,. Rob- righthanders and three southpaws Delta Phi · · · · · · · · · · · 1 16.248 ei t C<Jrby, and Walter Robbins. trying out for .regular jobs on the· Kappa Nu · · · · · · · · · · · 1 ,000 l'iHle Out Th1•ee Weeks hurling corps. Joe Furlong, Waldo. Sigma Phi · · · · · · · · · · · 1 .000 Strahan and George Shell are the Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . 1 .000 46 After three weeks of indoor prac- righthanders, and Mike Stanco, Ed tice, the varsity nine discontinues· Ryan and Bill Guerry throw them its indoor practice until Thursday, · f ' April 6. The mound staff composed m rom the left side. il'll but Ryan KAPPA NU'S WIN HANDBAiiL of \Chet\ Robinson, AI Mould, reported two weeks ago and signed Men \~v Hanson, Hoger Moran, as infielders or out;ftelder~ but Competing Total :Mike Fiester, and Joe Lubansky .lave .been converted Into pltchers · Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . 3 100.000 are shaping up well, but still lack by vytttner. . Phi .Sigma Delta . . . . 3 68.000 SPORT MART by Hudson H. Tanner After last Saturday night there can't be much doubt in anyone's mind as to .the popularity of the wrestling, boxing, and fencing com- petitions. A thousand people seldom turn aut unless there's s0methil'lg really interesting. . . . With twelve wrestling and boxing bouts like Saturday'8 it'8 hardly possible that anyone would go away dissatisfied .... An orchid. to J-im Bothwell for gaining the heavyweight crown. . , . Another an.e to Leo McCarthy for really jarring Jim in the first round and taking the round without a doubt. . . . Paul Santee estab- lished a perfect .knockout record during the eliminations with three K.O.'s in as many fights. . . . We liked the Wardwell pluck after he was so groggy he c0uld hardly stand up .... That 'black eye of Hall Wittner's was a mistake .... an elbow did it ... he was refereeing one of the basketball games in the AAU play- offs at Saratoga and one of the players stuck his elbow into Hal's orb during a jump ball. ... The wrestling Saturday night was top notch. . . . Freddie Burns and Johnnie Krull had the usual short bouts ... by the way, in three years of wrestling Johnnie has never let a bout go beyond three minutes of the scheduled eight , .. your -writer's face is red after the results of the McCartney-Mead and Sherman-Thomas bouts. . . . The latter was the most evenly matched of the evening ... neither man went to the mat for four minutes in one of the longest sparring periods of all the wres- tling eliminations ... we bow to George Peck .. he picked Thomas. * * t. Union should be rightfully proud of its intramural program .... Your writer was ·aut at Colgate University two week-ends ago and had a chance to look at the Maroon intramural set-up. There are thirteen fraternities on the Colgate campus and although they have the same major intramural sports as Union, namely touch football, basketball, softball and swimming, they lack the variety found here at Union. Col- gate concentrates especially on its basketball and it is here that Union could take a lesson as far as officiating is concerned. Under our pres- ent set-up the officials are chosen by .the fraternities and any man may do the job regardless of his ability . .At Colgate the officials are paid a small fee by the college and must referee all intramural games. If Union could do this it would avert much misunderstanding as well as possible hard feeling in cases where the games are close and depend upon the referee's dicisions. The bra·nd of intramural basketball would also im- prove as the teams would have the same type of refei·eeing each game and would not get a \loose\ referee one game and a \tight\ referee the next. ... * * Page Three· Lambda Chi's, DU's Lead i:h Standings Benefiting by theit· scores in the intramur:al boxing, wr·estling, and handball during the month of March, the Lambda Chi Alpha and Delta Upsilon fraternities toppled the Phi Gamma Delta and Psi Upsilon fr·aternitie~ from the top two positions in the total Intramu- ral standings. Previous to the,;;c competitions, the Phi Gams wer·c in first place followed by the Psi U's, the DU's and Laml><la Chi's. The totals now ,;how the Lambda Chi's first, Delta Upsilon second, Phi Gamma Delta third and Psi U's in. fom·th place. Since the standings appearing in the Concordiensis January lOth, the Lambda Chi Alpha's have risen from tenth place. 'The race for first place is still close and no fra- ternity is as yet assured of first place. Only 28.419 separate the top four contestants·. Totals Through l'\larch 28, 1939 Lambda. Chi Alpha, 784.926; Del- ta Upsilon, 774.396; Phi Gamma Pelta, 77l.E01; Psi lJpsilon, 756.507; Phi Sigma Delta, 738.360; Beta Theta Pi, 715.910; Phi Delta Theta, 703.754; Chi Psi, 672.403; Delta Phi, 616.398; Kappa Alpha. 613.079; Kappa Sigma, 604.568; Kappa Nu, 602.844; Neutrals. 56();619; Phi Sig- ma Kappa, 440.552: Delta Chi, 437.732; Theta Delta Chi, 437.419; Sigma Phi, 300.579; South College, 199.445; Alpha Delta Phi, 163.519; North College, 135.340. --~-o---- 537 Students Have Entered Intramural Sports to Date contJ <Jl. • Wittner. said he has been par-. Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . 3 60.000 other members of the team have trcularly Impressed by the fielding Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . 3 56.000 leaked pron'lising batting within of Fred. Chesebro, Bob. Coley and Lambda Chi Alpha . . 3 52.000 the huge net, but little can be de- ~~d Felly and the batting of Bob Phi Delta Theta . . . . . 2 52.000 termined until the first outdoor · rc te. Cheseb;o. Coley, and Phi Gamma Delta . . 3 48.000. drill. It is hoped that weather con· Ehrcke are fightmg amGng them- Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . 3 44.000 ditions wHI allow outside work selves fo7 . the sha;tstop .and third Neutrals . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 44.000 · base positron. s _while Reilly seems Delta Phi' . . . . . . . . . . . 3 44.000 shor.tly after vacation. t h th d t 1 h o ave ~ msr e rae:\ on t e sec- Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . . 3 42.000 Freshmen Off to Baltimore and base JOb, Other mfielders are Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 40.000 Fred W:i·att, coach of the fresh- Joe. Ge~ova, and Lee Sherman. Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . 3 34.000 man ten, has announced that a . Frgh tmg for the ho~m· of don- Chi Psi .. , , , ...... , . . 3 34.000 foUl' game spring vacation sched- mng mask and pads m the first Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . 3 30.000 Fred Patrie should have a busy spring alternating between spring footba!l practice and baseball ... the outlook for the varsity tennis ~ea.m IS good. . . . Ben Rathbun, this year's captain, says the turnout 1s extremely large with over 20 signed up. , . . Ed Jackman, exchange student from St. Andrew's, is really entering into athletics here at Union. . . . He's out for varsity tennis and has already won a letter for varsity skiing. . . . Watch this freshman, Fred Chesebro, in baseball ... fi'Offi the looks of the intramural scores at present the softball com- pe~ition _wili probably de~ide the winner of the Intramural Trophy .... Psi Upsilon, Lambda Chi Alpha, Delta Upsilon, and Phi Gamma Delta look hke the four most possible choices for the top honors .... Art Lawrence, di 1·ector of intra- mural sports, announced that 537 students have entered intramural sports so far this year. According to the records 92 seniors, 119 jun- iors, 136 sophomores and 190 fresh- men have participated in at least one athletic event. This number represents 66 per cent of the en- tire student bod¥. ule has been arranged for the game a·re Bob Panoff, Harry Ste- yearling squad. The squad will vens and Sherry Hilllclt, a convert- leave the campus tomorrow and ed infielder. Wittner is working will play their first game in Balti- hard -with Hillicl~ and hopes to more Monday. make him a first class catcher. Th.e team will arrive in Balti- Jewell Horning, Don Phillips, .Abe more on Sunday and will remain Dorsman, Tom Merson, and AI over night at the Gillman School, Rasso are the candidates for the Roland Park, Md. They will oppose outfie'd positions. -wittner has here the Gillman School the following a fine g10up of ball chasers and afternoon in the first game of their .vill have a hard job of placing a schedule. That evening they will finger on any three as the start· travel to the Baltimore Polytech- ing choice. nic Institute where they will stay The one weakness in the squad, over night. They play that school according to Hal, is in the batting. in tbe second game on April 4. The The only outstanding slugger on Nav:v plebes will play hosts to the the te.am at present is Bob E'hrcke, fresllmen on the evening of April and to remedy this situation he is 4 and the following afternoon the :ssuing a call to all freshmen not yearlings will oppose the Severn yet out for the team and who Schcol. On April 6 the freshmen might possess talent at the plate. will close their schedule when they They are urged to report for prac- again n:eet the plebes from the tice immediately after spring vaca- Naval Academy. tion, as the season opens with the Last year Wyatt took his fresh- first game on May 2. man team on a similar trip but did Elevf\n Frosh Out for Golf not have such an extensive sched- Eleven men reported to Hal Witt- ule to fullfill. The yearlings last ner's recent organization meeting s e as o n encountered Manhasset for the first official freshman golf Hig-h School at Long Island, and team. Wittner announced the sched· the Severn School, but the Navy uling of three matches and two plebes contest was cancelled due to other pending dat:es. He also said a rainstorm. that home matches would be played Little Practice on the Municipal course. Although Tbis year's squad has had little nothing definite has been an- actual practice other than what nounced, it is believed that Albany call be gained in the gym due to Academy and Worcester Academy snow and other weather conditions. will be two of the squads on the HO'II'ever, Coa.ch Wyatt has condi- schedule. tioned and trained fourteen men The following men have s!gni- ~\ \FANNY FAIMIE/l CANDIES ,· \ ARE THE AffJST PfJPUlAR . ) fJF Al.t. EASTER IJIFTSl'~ / There can be no Easter Greeting more acceptable than the fresh 'fanny Farmer Candies, made from thefinestfoodstheworldprovides. FOR ANYONE to whom you owe a debt of gratitude, a box of the fresh Fanny Farmer Candies makes the perfect gift. You will fmd candies to suit every taste. nies are sure to be appreciated. FOR SHUT. INS, for friends and Chocolate Eggsinchinaeggcups children, Fanny Farmer Easter and other Fanny Farmer novel· Eggs or chocolate Easter Bun· ties will be sure of a welcome. STOP IN atyo11r Fanny FarmerCamfy Sho[; today or tomm'rou• and leat•e JOJJI' Faste?' gift fist. IV' e wtli be pJeawdto send the ]res/, Fam•y Farme1· Ca11dies to am addr<Ss yort wish, Order your Easter Candles today EASTER SUNDAY IS APRtL 9th famtf ja!Mneht CANDY SHOPS 465 STATE STREET Softball and Horseshoes Entries for the Intramur·al Soft- ball and Horseshoes tournaments must be in the intramural box in the gymnasium not later than to- morrow noon, April 1. In horse- shoes, the customary doubles cham- pionship will be held. There will be no singles tournament. No late entries will be accepted as the schedules will be drawn up during spring vacation. We like the idea o~ a freshman lacrosse trip to Maryland over the vacatron •.. we also llke the fact that the individual membeis of the squad are willing to finance their own trip although it is too bad there are no funds provided by the college for such trips in other sports as well as Iacross .... Weintraub Wins Handball \Moe\ Weintraub, Kappa Nu, de- feated \Arby\ Halpern, Kappa Nu, in the finals of the Handball cham- pionship. The scores were 21-18; 21-20. lied their candidacy for the six man team: Roy Webster, Douglas Has- brouck, J. Conyers Pinkston,. Joe Mudge, Madison Mitchell, Charles Clowe, William Best, Harold Fletch- er, John Enapp, .Andrew Kay, and Eric King. Rostauraut-Tnp Room-Delicatessen GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR Happy vacation .... Spring Football Notice When Alexander Field is dry, Coach Nelson Nitchman will work individually with all candidates for varsity football at any hour during all afternoons in the week. Line- men will be drilled in stance, pull- outs, and types of blocks. Backs will receive special instruction in passing, spinning, and running. FREIHOFERS BREAD :-: CAKE :-: ROLLS Daily Delivery Direct to Your Home TEL. 6-4224 C.S. MOODY OPTOMETRIST 115 B'way Tel. 6-5747 Eyes Examined, Glasses Fitted Three Doors from State St. In time for Easter: the shirt of the year - AllOSTRIPE! H ERE'S the perfect companion for your Easter suit-an Arostripe sl1irt. White cord stripes on tan, gray, green or blue backgrounds. Tailored to perfection by Axrow. Come in for yolll's today. $2 • (Featured in Saturday E.vening Post) - ..-- ARROW ~ CONNELLY BROTHERS DAIRY Inc~ AT YOUR FAVORITE SODA FOUNTAIN 1858 Hamburg St. PHONE 2·0916 AROSTRIPE-for a well-dressed Easter (Arostri~e featmed in Sat.Eve.Post) Here's the perfect companion for your Easter spring suit-an AROSTRIPE shirt. Under one collal' you get two .of the most impoJ:tant shirt tJ:ends: white cord stripes and chalktone colors, in blue, green tan 01' grey. You also get the incomparable Arrow collar • plus the Mitoga shaped body design ..• plus Sanforized-shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than r%). Buy this shirt of the year for only $2 Arostripe ties • $1 ARROW SHIRTS

Page Four Hockey \hUt\ THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, MARCH 31, 1939 MAKE-UP TESTS Ap1•il 10-11 Monday, April 10, 1:30 .P. M. 252 U ni~on Athletes Honored by Award (Continued trom Page 1l Howard E. Sheffer, '39, Edwat·d B. Wetls, '39. Captain, Joseph J. ~n­ n.ese, '40, William L. Johnson, 40, Frank W. Melewicz, '40,. and Paul Santoro, '40, Co- Captains- E I e c .t, James P. Barford, Manager-Elect. Hen.ry J. Clay, '39, Carl P. Cole- man, '39, John Brand, '39, Manager, Charles F. Brown, '40, Captai.n- Elect. John C. Cone, '40, Martin H. Heck, '40, Captain, Philip H. Milch- ill, '40. Chester H. h\ttbinson '40, Manager-Elect, William J. Hartt, '-11, William B. T. Hastings, '41, George G. Holmes, '41, Edward :K. Ottenot, '41, Howard C. Smith, ''41. Comparative Liter ... Prof. Coffin ..... Civil Engineering, room 206 C}eology 1 ........... Prof. Smith ..... Geology Laboratory, room 24 Geology 12 .......... Prof. Smith ..... Geology Laboratory, room 24 Geology 22 .......... P.,·of. Smith ..... Geology Laboratory, room 24 Our good friend Adolph Hitler The Prom Band has been chosen,. -should crack down on American whether for •bette1• o~ .for wo:se·; i films any time now . , . bar them · at least the suspense 1s .over. Smce 'from Germany, and all that. The the Tuesday issue announced .the. Warner Brothers aren't being at aJI choice, we have heard consrder-: co-operative, it appears. They insist able criticism both pro and coB. on wringing the last ounce .of pre- One con faction sugge~ted that, release publicity out o.f a film called :;;ince the ·band is practiCally un- Confessions of a Nazi Sl,)y, which k,nown, the. prom commi.ttee should ,probably won't fit in with M:r. Rit- atti·re the mdoor track m the gym· Ier's tota.lit.Aryan schemes. In pro- with slat machines, so tha:t the test against this production a.nd the dancers could amuse themsel:ves. American policy .of ·f-eaturing Ger- But whethel' or not the prom 1s a, man photoplays at third-run hauses, success, we sa:! ute Fred Burns, if at an, the \Hamburger T·age- prom chairman, with twenty-one •blatt\ (HOMM-boor-grr TAH-guh- guns for doing the best he could· :blot) has refused to review or t<'> ad- under a handicap unencountered vertise American films in -Lts col- in former years .... 'Tis said that umns. \aU a'' William B. T. Hastings,. '41, Rob- ert I. Reed, '41, Henry L. Crosby, '41, and Donald M. Rickard, '41, Assistant Managers-Elect. Va..rsity BasebaJI ''U\ \aU a\ James J. Keough, '41, Assista.nt Manager-Elect. Siding 16 SUt'~ Ed,vnrd Jackman. '40, Edwin W. Scantlebury, '41, J-ohn W. Senn, '41, A.ndrew B. Vanderbilt '39, Manage1·. d \aUa\ Donald W. Buchanan, '38, Cly e · P M Peter S. Owens, '39, Jesse R. B . Mal shall, Jr., '38, Frank · y- b '41 W 'll' 3herman. '39. Robert B. Cor y, , crs, Jr., '39, ·captain-Elect, 1 1am T. Thomas, '39, Captain, Louis J, '\s~istant Man;;~~lect. carr, '40, Robert J. Feldman, '40, \tUt\ Robert R. Garnett, '40, Robert W. Frederick B. Hawley, Jr., '38, Hanson, '40. Jesse A. Mould, '40,' • 38 ·\' · 1 J \:aptain Willard W. Dean, , ~.,a-~- Harry L. Palmer, '40, Fredenc t · • ager, Arthur R. Carr. '39, Marvm P atrie, '40, Chester H. Robinson, '40. J Dwo1·e. '39, John J. Morrison, .r., \aUa\ B H 39 Douglas C. Murphy. '39, enJa- Hyman A. Enzer, '38, Claude . rnln Rathbun, Jr., '39, Captain- 'Viley,. '38, Robert A. Young, Jr., Elect William White, '39, Manag-er- '39, and David L. Yunich. '39, As- · 1 • 4 o · '8lect, Thomas H. Ra stan, . sista nt Managers-Elect. \aUa\ Varsity Track Stanley Rollin, '38. Townsend J. \U\ Rifl'nbury. '40. and Angelo J. Se<ie- E ·is. ·~ 0. Assistant Manager.s-Elect. Jaclt C. Bowie. '38, Geo-rge · Frt>shman Baseball (Numl'rals) Doyle, '38, William H. Hawkes, ·~~. Ralph S. Pearse, '38, Managet·, Hatry B. Myers, '38, John J. Hard!-· '\dam F. Ciesinski, '41, George D. man, '38, Manager, Robert L. Hay- Holmes, '41. Fred F. Kingsbury, '41, ner, '39, Captain-Elect, Donald F.: Kenneth E. Mackenzie. '41, Din- Henderson, '39. Manager-Elect, Jos- .. rond J. Marotta. '41, Guy :Molli- eph Annese, '40, Ernest W. Bohen- cone. '41, Roger E. Moran, '41, A.rn- stab, '40, Burdick H. Brittin, '40. old Rathlev. '41, Donal M. Rick- \aUa\ d '41 ard, '41, Gordon J. Semera . , William W. Endicott, '38, John L. Alexander Turchick, '41, James Fisher, Jr., '38. William L. Ladue, U1lr!Ull1, · 4 1. Morris Weintraub, '41. Mathematics 1 ...... Prof. Farrell ... C!v~l Eng~neer~ng, room _208 Mathematics 1 ...... Prof. Burkett ... ~:v:l Eng;neer;ng, room 208 . Mathematics 1 ...... Prof. Fox ....... ~; v;l En~neer;ng,_ room 208 Mathematics 2 0 •• 0 0 0 Prof. Farrell . 0 •• c;v·;I Englneer;ng, room 208 Mathematics 2 ...... Prof. Burkett ... c;v1l Eng;neer;ng, room 208 Mathematics 2 ...... Prof. Fox ....... c;v~l Eng;neer;ng, room 208 Mathematics 2 ...... Prof. Snyder .... ClV·li Engmeermg, room 208 Mathematics 11 ..... Prof. Burkett ... C~v~l Eng~neer~ng, room 208 Mathematics 11 ..... Prof. Farrell ... C~v~l Eng~neermg, room 208 Mathematics 11 ..... Prof. Morse .... C1vtl Engmeermg, room 208 Mathematics 12 ..... Prof. Morse .... Civ.iJ Engineering, room 208 Mathematics 21 ..... Prof. Morse .... C~vil Eng~neer~ng, room 208 Mathematics 31 ..... Prof. Snyder ... C1v1l Engmeermg, room 208 Social Studies 2 ..... Mr. Rotundo ... :Cailey Hall, room 201 Socia:! Studies 2 ..... Mr. Vveiler ..... Bailey Hall, room 201 Social Stud-ies 11 .... Mr. McGuire ... Bailey Hall, room 201 Social Studies 39 .... Prof .. Bennett ... Bailey Hall, room 201 Social Studies 42 .... Prof. O'Rourke . Bailey Hall, room 201 3:30P.M. Biology 1 ........... Prof. Mavor .... Biology Laboratory, room 101 Biology 1 ........... Prof. Scott ..... Biology Laboratory, room 101 201 Chemistry 1 ... Prof. Ellery .... Chemistry Laboratory, r0om Chemistry 1 ... Dr. Porter ...... Chemistry Laboratory, room 201 Chemistry 1 ... Prof. Bacon .... Chemistry Laboratory, room 201 Chemistry 3 ... Prof. Ellery .... Chemistry Laboratory, room 201 Chemistry 12 ........ Prof. Schmidt .. Chemistry Laboratory, room 201 Chemietry 22 ........ Dr. Porter ...... Chemistry Laboratory, room 201 Engineering Law ... Prof. Taylor .... Civil Engineering, ream 201 French 1 ............ Dr. Silber ...... Ba1ley Hall, room 110 Social Studies 38 .... Mr. Emblen .... Bailey Hall, room 210 . Water Supply ....... Prof. Taylor .... Civil Engineering, rcom 201 Tue5day, April 11, l :30 P, M. · Biology 2 ........... Dr. Eaton ...... Biology Laboratory, room 203 Chemistry 11 ....... Prof. Bacon .... Chemistry Laboratory, room 201 Chemistl·y 23 ........ Dr. Porter ...... Chemistry Laboratory, roorn 201 German 1 ........... Dr. Danton ..... B~i~ey H~ll, ro_om 106 Mechanics (Junior) . Prof. Sayre ..... CIVIl Engmeenng, room 107 Social Studies 1 ..... Prof. Doty ...... Bailey Hall, room 210 two Skidmore girls in Keyes Hall Now, Adolf, we don't wan:t to butt are anxious to find some way of in where we're not wanted, but we getting on social pro. They feel thin:k that this so-rt of ·thing isn't they have been slighted in the mat- going to improve the state of the ter of publicity and want to go, nation at all. You know a.s well as contrary to custom, to assembly 'we do that the German .public gets and hear their names read. One of a heck of a thrill out of Nelson the girls recently wanted her date Eddy and Jeanette MacDonald, for to stay out a hailf hour late so instan-ce. If the policy of the \Ham- she could stea-l a march on the burger Tageblatt\ (HOMM;boor-grr other .. , . If you want to hear a TAHcguh-blot) indicates• the course humorous story, ask Bailey Stone are about to adopt, we fi:gure about the ventriloquist he got end up behind the eightbaH. mixed up with ·on a train going to mob will stand for a lot of New York. ... Joe Annese was pushing around, as you know, but going to wrestle in the in tram urals.· cutting down on their entertain- He was examined and weighed in, ·ment rations will get you in then someone forgot to enter his Deutsch. Mark our word•! name. . . . Jack Marsicano, Phi Sigma Kappa Freshman, is mad at * • * a certain member of the faculty. \It is not so long ago,\ said movie Guess who? Hint: He drives a blue czar Will Hays in his annual r e- '37 Ford Phaeton •... Tony wants port,\ that thrilling. action for its '38 Herbert W. DE>rrick. Jr .. ' 39 · I-'rE>shma.n Track (NwnE>raJs) \Vllliarn L. Johnson, '40, Frank V. James L. Bothwell, '41, Albert S. us to be sure to add that Bill own sake was considel'e·d satisfy- Ford, having received his Bloclt ing 'movie'; that the custard pie \U\, has been advanced to the was the symbol of hilarity and STUDENTS REPORTING FOR MAKE-UP TESTS MUST PRESENT much desired position of a Barber amu.sement:. orr tli:e screen; ·that the SLIPS STAMPIED WITH THE NAME OF THE DEAN Shop Notable. , .. We hear from. cbet'S'e was sure-fire entertainment Melewicz, '40, George J. Miller. ' 40 · Callan. Jr .. '41. wa 1 -ren c. Delo!lo, Donald Roberts, '40. and John J. . 4 1. Robert Ericson, '41, John D. Steidle, '40, Assistant Managers- Haigh, '41, W. Bradford Hastings, Elect. ·n John P. Lewis, '41, Leo C. Mc- varsity Lacross(' \U\ Albert G. Borden, Jr., '38, Ar- thur E. B1eymaier, '38, John D. Coleman. '38, Merlin S. Fay, '40, Jos· eph E. Paul, '38, Captain, Harold L. Schultz, '-·,. Wesley H. Thomp· son. '38, Wi!lard L. Hagadorn, Jr., '38, Manager, Douglas K. Blue, '39, and Henry J. Clay, '39, Co-Cap- tains-Elect, Hubert A. Squire,. Man· ager-Elect, Merlin L. Brockmye I', '40, Charles J. Pa;;se, '40, Myron L. Stillman, '40. \aU a\ Philip T. Hill. '40, and Robert A Miles, 'JO. Assistant Managei'S· Elect. \' m-sity Basket ball \U\ Sumncr B. Irish, '39. Manager, John H. Schultz, '39, Captain, La- Hue G. Buchanan. '40. Louis J. Carr. '40, Co-Captain-Elect, George J. MillPr. '40. James H. Watson, '40, Cc-Captain-Ell'ct. Franltlin P. Fred- erick, '40, Manager-Elect,, William T. Ford, ·.n, Arnold Rathlev. '40. \aUa\ William T. Thomas, '39, John F. Canfield. '41, Samuel C. Hammer· strom, '40, John J, O'Brien, '40. Ha.rry L. Palmer, '40, James J. Gottschalk. '41. and Gordon H. Parker. '41, Assistant Managers- Elect. Carthy, '41, Walter E. Plummer, '41 Robel t I. Reed, '41. John W. Senn, '41, John H. Spittle, '41. F1·eshman Lacrosse (NumeraJs) Foster H. Robert, '39, Manager, Richard L. Balch, '41, John F. Can- field, '41, John B. Colson, '41, Mer- vyn V. Green. '41, Ernest D. Grif- fith, Jr., '41, John C. Guibel\t Jr., 'H Paul V. Mara, '41, Robert A. :>1~lloy, ·.n, Ronald J. Ostrander, 'H. Gordon H. Parker. '41, Fred- e1 ick G. Richards, Jr., '41, Paul P. Rieger, '41, William A. Wardwell, Jr., '41. • FrPshma.n Baskt>tball <Nwnera.ls) William H. Champlin, '42, Charles \· Clowe. '42, George Coley, '42, Stewart E. Goldblatt, '42, William D. Hill, '42, Emlen T. Hutchins, '42, ?au! B. Santee, '42, Lee Sherman, ·42, Robert D. Forrest. '42, and Richard W. Fm·se, '42, Assistant Managets, Harlan G. Carson, '42. F.-eshman Hockey ( Num0rais) Holly T. Armstrong, '42, Robert K. Baker. '42. Arnold C. Gay, '42, \Villiam A. Harness, '42. Kal'l F. Keppler, '42, Ang,us T. Morrison, '42, Robert Panoff. '42, James C. Pinkston, '42, Kendrick W. Ralph, '42. Waldo P. Strahan, '42. Charles A. Volz, '42, Edward J. Ward, '42, Charles W. Newland, Manager- Elect. Freshman Football (Numerals) Robert K Baker, '42, Ross Chris- ti>nsen, '42, Robert B. Davis, '42. Varsity Swimming Varsity \U\ for exceptional formance: per- Abraham B. Dorsman, '42, Edward Enstice, '42, Moey L. Friedman, '42, Stewart E. Goldblatt, '42, Robert P. Hallenbeck, '42, W.iiJiam D. Hill, '42, James S. Hillick, '42, Robert K. Killian, '42, John A. Marsicano, Paul H. Teare. '39, Peter DeWitt, '39 Burdick H. Brittin, '40, Captain- El~ct. Arnold C. Harwood, '40, Al· bert 1\. Dm•is, '40. Charles J. Pa~:;,r. '40, Captain. Jr., '42, Thomas Parsons, '42, Don- ald F. Quigley, '42, J. Bundy Shaw, 'A2 Lee Sherman, '42, Charles P. R~yce, '42, and Frank S. Thyne, '42, Assistant Managers. LeRoy T. Waldbridge, '42, Manager. Freshman Cross-Country (Numerals) Donald R. Brockwehl, '41, Rich- ard D. Conly, '41, Donald C. Field, '41, Robert J. Murphy, '41, Jonathan Pearson, '41, George R. Stevenson, 41, Herbert W. Derrick, '41, Man- ager, A. William Epstein, '41, Man· 3-ger-Elect. Golf \gUt\ Douglas H. Geer, '38, Arnold Gor- don, '38, Floyd V. D. Dodd, '38, Charles F. Brown, '40, Benjamin J. LGrd, '40, Captain-Manager-Elect. ~~au a\ Robert E. Clark, '39, Gilbert C. Kopf, '40. Freshman Tennis Leland L. Beik, '41, Warren C. Kimmey, '41, Arthur B. King,. Jr., 'H William W. Knox, Jr., '41, Philip S. Potter, Jr., '41, Joseph D. Schlttan, '41, John P. Shanley, '41, Walter F. Swart, '41, James E. Twining, Jr., '41. INDIVIDUAL AWARDS Basketball 21 First, Marvin Dwo1·e, '39; second, David Miller, '39; third, William Busino, '40. PHONE 4-5614 Everythinf Elecfric:al JAS. F BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. \aUt\ Herbert W. Derricl{, Jr.,. '39, Har· old B. Sanderson. '39. Manager. Robert G. Murphy, '41. We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests \aU a\ Douglas K. Blue, '39, Francis Dunigan. '·10, David T. Wilder, '40, Burton R. Payne, Jr., '41. R / for building health in mind and boc:ly. Amsterdam Dairy MILK 2 glasses before retiring Repeat Daily Phone 6-2851 for Daily Delivecy J. S. HANDELMAN QUALITY GROCERIES and MEATS Fresh Fruits & Vegetables Dally Fresh Butter and Eggs FREE DELfVERY Phone 6-60 I 6 920 State St. JAMES REST AU RANT 633 State St. 226 Nott Ter. 204 Union St. 1009 Chrisler Ave. 4?:6 State St. PHONE 6-3456 PINE GROVE DAIRY Inc. 118 S. Ferry St. Schenectady, N. Y. Gazette Press Printing reliable so\U'c.es at the Kappa Nllvtte•ch:ni<Iuo~; that boy-meets-girl sup- Foul Shooting Tie for first-John Gilbert Kopf, '40. Skiing House that Joe Lubansky, ·plied all the drama that a motion of Amenia (population-21) ah ex~ picture audienoe apparetnly de- Vannier,. '41, elusive residential spot in South- manded.\ First, Robert Miles, '40. Boxing 125 ponds class, Beecher Lever- see, '40; 135 pound class, Paul San- tee, '42; 145 pound class, W'illiam Harkness, '42; 155 pound cla.ss, Sal- vatore Mauriello, '41; heavyweight, James Bothwell, '41. Wrestling 125 pound class, Talbot Mead, '42; 135 pound class, William Thomas, '39; 145 pound class, Avery J3eer, '42; 158 pound class, Donald Hen- derson, '39; 175 pound class, John Krull, '40; 185 pound class, Fred- erick Burns, '40; heavyweight, Stewart Goldblatt, '42. Fencing Foil, Frank Mele, '39; Epee, War- ren Kimmey, '41; Sabre, Stanley Gertz, '40. Handball First, Morris Weintraub, '41; sec- ond, Arby Halpern, '39. For House Linen Service PHONE 4-3166 American Coat, Apron & Laundry Company 1030 Barrett St. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market OUR MOTTO ••Quality Servi~e Satisfaction'• 598 B'way- For Better Vt~lues ern New York, can't get. bac)t home As you say, Will, it is not so long without a passport. . . it is ago. . J. M. ed about that Tidmarsh considers his present Music Appreciation class is the worst he's had. ... If you see the red-headed entertainer of the Club Petite, Joan Stanton, by name, she will probably: be with Jim Bothwel1, Johnny Krull, or Frank Fredericks. She'& from Fred- ericks' home town. Some of the boys overheard him say, \If I only .knew as much in high school as I do now!\ ... The Club ReUte wouldn't serve any Union men Sat- urday night. There's now a move- ment afoot to boycott the joint. The Van CUrler Tap Room, on the DOUW F. BEEKMAN Gasoline - Brake· Service other hand, treated the Union clientele with considerable courtesy ... The omnipresent Gerzov bought (and drank, believe it or not) his usual one beer in each of the night spots .... PLEA..,SANT VACATION, AND STlJFF_ ........ Hugh Manity. MAKE THE NEW UARSII CAMPUS FAVORITE! 'You've never seen a pipe so ama:L• netu and right as VARSITY. U. S. Tires - Motor Tune-up Exides • Lubrication Let Us Prepare Yo-.r C:CJr for Winter II. I•• Bo,l1d,,d around a bowl of genuine ltali~n briar is a shell of perma- nent plastic, in your college colors. A.R.d these Colors can't chip. can't ·i),.jrn, can't crack. It's the smooth· est smoking, sweetest pipe you ever 1.>-\l.t ·between your teeth. Lig~c· weigh I~ wide, comfortable b•tt. See it - tqday ! 60 I UNlON ST. Open Until I I P. M. Cleaned -and Pressed B~: 93c Carr for and Deliver \For Students Who Care\ G&G CLEANERS DYERS 12 Elm St. Phone 3-1775 At ygur -faforite dea/n- ONEDOlUR .Pal. Pmding Srightly fess rhan actUal Jize. VARSITY PIPES Before Leaving for Easter Vacation have your car checked at the sold exclusively ESSO SIGN Cor. VAN VRANKEN & NOTT ST. Complete Lubrication Pre stone Battery Service Tires at THE UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE and GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Fin. Z-5 11 Vol. L: tigh (on~ David Editor • topher: of the .faH's e: meeting held c Both m ly. Fahy, I., prep school rnembe1 ternity net Ke of the city m News · sis\ ar the the Ligh1 and Acadeu College the \l< contrib also be cordier ber of founde ] A r ments Editor \Cone< apprm Peck, was Christ tor, w: Oth< board Harry tors; Editol iter; Edit01 togra] Palaz· andP Edito The \Fres past ' ered .1 to m: inste~ no d eithet Co As Th York the Ryai pers< licit~ in hi this real to l pran Ues.l Tl cone lowi a I will that Sou: istic awa his tha· tha1 and Las had and plie the 'I the tro wo :E wo stu gr: dUi wo tm sib we ar1 sw ho wl

