9 h CONFIDEN'CE ~RALLY AT 8 TONIGHT Glee Club 'I Freshman Party In Chapel Nov. 8 Tomorrow Z.-511 Vol. LXIV., No. 13 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1,1940 PRICE FIVE CENTS CaUan Announces I 'Idol' Found Up To Usual Standard Professors Unite New B.i,d Syste.m Bu!y~!~~!'!!!~ Ex,citement, Novelty In le~ter Wa.rning •Fo·r Gr· •. ,d.lro· R· ·Ba· ·t·.t· Union ~allege's ~lick quar~erly scouting foo~ba!l m~nag~s to stay Of (lty Change Korn Kix Contest Awards $2 to Blechman Even college students are smart enough to win a cash award in a \Vitalized\ Kern Kix contest these days. Two dollars, the 526th prize in a grand $10,- 000 contest was awarded to Solo- mon Blechman, '42, for a slogan telling why he. ate Korn Kix breakfast food every morning. College Exhibit At World's Fair Praised By Weber · ' · · · th1s mormng burst mto the mrddle not-too-techn.rcal wh1le bemg pretty Proportional Taxes To Be Levied Against Groups at Da,nce Al·bert S. Callan, Jr., '41, chair- man of the Interfraternity Gridiron Ball today announced a bid sys- tem by which tickets to the dance will be done away with. Students will a~k for bids which wiU be de- livend to the fraternity houses at one stated time. The rea5on for the change can be obtained from any member of the celllmittee. of the election caJmpaign, the fo0t- accurate in terminology. Lou Little ball seas0n and Daily Assembly and Lieutenant-Governor Charles complete with red, white, anti! .blue Polletti send messages to the stu- cover adorned with pictures of dent body saying just about what Franklin and Wendell, new heads, you'd expect them to say. Dr. Lang- type.faces and make-up, and an ·ex- sa·m doesn't bother with the head- tra consignment of pictures. Don't lines he's supposed to look be·hind misunderstand us, this year'5 \Idol\ and instead gives us a treatise on offers no such radical departure the history of \draft\ legislation. from last year's as did that publica- Dr. Bronner at least talks about tion from its dying predecessor. But the headlines he's ana.Jyzing, :mak- similar material has been presented ing a terse review of national af- in a very slightly different manner, fairs. A \ystem of proportional assess- ments of the costs will be imposed upon all groups, fraternities, neu- trals, residents of North and South Collegei:l, Old Gym Ha11 and the Pyramid Club, w·ho wish to -attend the ball. Each man ex•pecting to go to the dance will be included in an a~sessment which will bring him a bid. No others except those who will attend the dance will be as- eessed. The assessment will ·be $3. maintaining mest of the advantages Throughout, it's hard to find of last year's magazine, if correct- fault with the p1 oof-readet·s, unless ing few of whatever faults that you want to bother with the few magazine may have had. errors we noticed. Our chief com- Ax;plications Until Nov. 12 The bid contl'ibution of $3 can be made from now until Tue~day afternoon, November 12. Any in- terfraternity council representative or Adam Ciesinski and Cecil An- gell will accept applications for bids. Hid:; will be di::;.tributed to f1·aternity and neutrals on Thut·s- day, November 14. Members of fra- ternities or neutral groups who wbh bids for friend:; or alumni may get them by applying to any re.pl·ese nta ti ve. The faculty, the varsity football and ct·os~ country teams will be given bids at the door the night of the dance. Callan again mentioned the un- usual decorat.ion theme of a \Sa- lute to the Americas.\ He pointed out that the theme has been used by some South American countries within the la>t year when they have placed flags of the 28 American na- tions on their stamps. These flags have been printed in the correct colors prod,ucing a colorful stamp. The committee plans• to hang a la1 ge AmerJcan flag at either end of the Alumni Gymnasium an•l to line the sides of the floor with the flags of each country in North and South America. The bids and dance prog1·am will probably follow the same pattern, Callan said. Both will probably be printed in red and blue in!{ with a white background. The b;mdstand will follow the theme of the red, white and blue. Proud of Record Jack Teagarden is especially proud of his record of playing at mme college and university dances than any other band this past year. He believeo that an orchestra that \is tops with the collegiate crowd h> usually tops everywhere else ,;oon afterwards.\ The \Idol\ has equipped itself plaint is that everyone who con- with \Fortune\ magazine's explan- tributes to this issue says almost atory sub-heads, maintained the word-for-word what you'd expect \New Yorker's\ style and title for hi·m to say, with no sm··prises in its \Notes and Comment\ and used store. We disagree with the use of \Time's\ inserted full page adver- a ·single word here and there, but tisements. these disagreements don't occur You can caU it inconsistency or where the contributor is one who versatility, depending on your point poses aq, a real author. of view, but the fact remains that Always since the \Idol\ woke up this first issue hops in a carefree a year ago this issue, there will ·be manner from the simulated \light the justified complaint that the touch\ of the· \New Yorker\ to a editorial board has gone teo far out sentimental editorial style, passing of its way to get \name\ contrib- on the way through Morton Cross's utors, failing to scaTe up any great factual, scholarly wordine.ss and amount of material from Union's Johnny Lewis's excellent command campus. Actually, about two-fifths of the English language. of the magazine's copy is student Said John P. Lewis, '41, hits the w1 itten, the 1 est of the material magazine's high ·point for literary 'being divided equally between fac- style and Jack Pearson anti! Jack ulty and those with no actual con- Phillips for downright interest. nection with the college, Paul's article on Professor Berg The \Idol\, then, mechanically is, as its sub-head calls it, wistful good, lacks excitement or surprises. and humble, and will perhaps con- Well written, well presented, its jure up a feeling of agreement I material is at least addressed to among the electrical engineers. AI the student :body, if not inspired 'by Ciampa's informative article on it. I Bennetton, Baker I -F-r-es_h_n_w_n_C-ap_s_· 1-llz-·sr-a-ke-n~ Drawn In Draft For Circus Headgear The other day a member of St d t P • k d the sophomore discipline corn- U en S IC e mittee told a Coneordiensis re- Unknown Due to porter that freshmen stm had to wear their caps and he Registration at Home pointed out the great number of yearlings lacking their green lids. \It's a long time till Christmas,\ he said \and the freshmen won't go unheeded.\ The draft registration numbers of two members of the Union fac- ulty were drawn from an ancient goldfish .bowl on the stage of a 1 Washington Government auditor-, ium. It was impossible to find out 1 how many students were also drawn in the draft because many had not gotten their numbers from home. None of the Schenectady pa- pers listed a local Union student for the first November ·call. Professm· Norman A. Bennetton's number of 3048 was in the 64 cap- sule drawn. Mr. Henry A. Baker, instructor in Social Studies, was picked near the end of the draw· ings. His number was 2541. Quite .by accident a 1917 Con- cordiensis came into the report- er's hands with the following stmy: \On a memorable morn- ing years ago, Schenectady maidens were astonished to see a number of young men wear- ing little caps, brilliantly color- ed with garnet and· green. Among the colleges and univer- sities which Teagarden played Jru:t season, several of them two and three times, are Villanova, Hood, Rhode Island State, Mount Hol- yoke, Norwich, North Caroline State, Citadel, Florida, George Washington, Vanderbilt, TenneEsee, Auburn, Alabama, MiEsissippi State, Pittsbmg, Carnegie Tech and Michigan State. In addition, they played for the \college crowd\ at the Intercollegiate Club and Bache- lor's Cotillion Club in Washing- ton, D. C. Exemptions Expeet€'d Sheets will be sent those whose numbers were picked in the draft on which they will be asked to an- swer questions. Local draft boards will consider the answers and make their replies to application for ex- emption. They will also classify those drafted from the iMormation submitted. \They thought that perhaps a circus had come to town for they could not !mow that the lordly sophomores of 'Old Union· had ordered every flesh- man to weat a cap-a badge that would distinguish him from the boys of the town. \Let us set 1them apart by means of a funny ca.p,\ the sophomores\ had· said, \and when they have acquired the colle!'(e 'tangue' in manners and apparel they may lay these caps aside.\ Such is the history of the freshman cap! Republicans. Democrats To Debate New Deal Urge Colleagues to Vote for Present Councii~Manager Plan Four members of the Union Col· lege faculty representing several political factions have united to send a letter to their colleagues warning them against a pro.position to abolish the city manager form of government in Schenectady and re- vert ·back to the \antiquated mayor- board of aldermen\ government. The four signing ·are Professor Mortimer F. Sayre, Professor of Applied Mechanics, a Republican, P1 ofessor William Whipple Bennett, Chairman of the Fieid of Econom- ics who has not announced hi.s na- tiona.I stand, Professor Burges Johnson, Chairman of the Field of English and an announced Demo- crat and Professor P. I. Wold, Chairman of the Field of Science and a Republican. The four wrote: Said the letter to Blechman, \There is excitement and pleas- ure in contests for the organiza- tions which conduct them as well as for the good customers who enter them, and there is hardly any ·part of our work we enjoy as much as issuing prize money awards. It makes us feel almost as good as if we had won ourselves.\ Blechman explained that Korn Kix was a summer family break- fast favorite and that he used the box tops saved during the summer to enter the contest. His winning slogan praised Korn Kix as a cereal that was palat- able in the morning after the night before. The novel use of the .puffed corn grains proposed by Blechman must have appeal- ed to the judges for they sent him a check for two dollars. Director of Exhibits Says Union•s Display Best of All Colleges Hanns P. Weber, director of ex- hilbits in the New York State Bu·ild- ing ·Of the World's Fair, compli- mented the college when he told President Fox that Union College had the best exhibit of any college represented. He also praised the Schenectady County Exhibit as be- ing outstanding ·ftmong the 62 county displays. Checkers revealed that more people stopped· to view the .schenectady County exhibit, that included the college, than any other county. In return for Union's and Sche- nectady's leadership, New York State has allocated, as a permanent loan, eight exhibition floor cases and two wall cases. Each case is of quartered oak and is wired for elec- tricity. The floor cases are valued at about $800 each and the wall cases about $1000. Four of the floor cases will go to the library and L t F h P t four to the geology museum. The as res man ar y disposition of the wall case.s has Scheduled for Tom orr ow nat yet been planned. The fourth and final freshman Cases for Museum \In view of the keen interest in and the resulting concentration of attention upon the coming na- tional election, there is a danger that other matters which come up at the same time may not receive the attention which they deserve. In particular, this refers to the proposition to revert to the anti- quated mayor-board of aldermen form of government in Schenec- tady, giving up the council-city manager fmm which we now have. This proposal is being ac- tively ·pushed in an underground campaign, using as little publicity as possible, by a group of dis- gruntled politicians in the minor- ity wings of both the Republican and Democratic parties, ·and there is a real danger that it may be canied by default. party with Slddmore will be held Dr. Fox was able also to secme tomorrow. About fifty girls will two wall cases for the Schenectady come down from Saratoga Springs Museum, two for the New York to meet an equal number of Union State Historical Association's mu- freshmen. seum at Ticonderoga, and four wall In the ·opinion of the under- signed, this would be a step de- cidedly in the wrong direction. To avert this, it is important that you yourself vote upon this ques- tion and that you make a point of urging as many others ~s possible to do so as well. Note that as the proposition is worded, a vote of 'No' on city proposition No. 1 will be a vote in fa.vor of continu- ance of theh council-city manager form of government.\ Dates will first be paired as to cases and two floor cases for the height at Dr. and Mrs. Fox's home New York State Historical Associa- at 1:20 p. m. Herb Houghton, who tion at Cooperstown. The value of is arranging the affair in the ab- all the cases and plate glass doors sence of Fred Wyatt, asked that all and shelves may be figured at freshmen •be on time so that the about $20,0()0. party may get under way promptly. T.he Union College photomural The couples will !be taken to the may be .put on permanent exhibi- Williams football game on the Mont , tion in the lobby of the Van Cmler Pleasant field by bus. After the Hotel or in the Schenectady Mu- game, they will be returned to the seum.. The museum will receive a college. Dinner in Hale House and photomural of the General Electric dancing ·in Hanna Han will com· Company and of the American plete the festivities. Locomotive company activities from Besides the Skidmore girls, Pres- thhe Schenectady County Exhibit. ident and Mrs. Moore of Skidm.ore, In the ·historical case Union dis- President and Mrs. Baxter of Wi!- played a manuscript of John How- Hams and Fred Wyatt's sister and ard Payne's \Home Dear Home,\ brother-in-law w.ill also be guests the first minutes of the trustees, of the fresnmen. The dance in record of faculty punis·hment cf Hanna Hall will probably use a vic students needing discipline and an or \juke box\ rather than the· usual early diploma. An orrery, purc\hased orchestra. A \juke box\ provides by the Board of Trustees in 1798, more selections and better music. proved to be one of the most pop- --------------------------------- ular exhtbits. The miniature \plan- New Inter-class Trophy Praised As Finest Looking of Union Awards The finest looking of all Union ·.~~-------­ I tl ophies in the opinion of Bill Ketz, 1 namely .the new inter-class trophy, i has gone on exhibition in Hal Witt- ! ner's office. The new trophy, al- most a museum piece in the opinion of some who have already seen it, arrived from the jewler in shining condition last Tuesday. . The main figure is a winged god- 1 dess of victory holding a erown of : fire aloft. Around her brow is •! bound a lauiel wreath, symbolic of victory. She is standing on tip toe and her head is inclined upwards towards the fire. Around her waist is a belt with a la\rge buckle on which a rising run and two sea horses are engraved. The trophy was provided by J. New Interclass Trophy > _:·. etarium\ positions the stars and I heavenly bodies for any date, was I restored by John Bellamy Taylor, Union's visiting lecturer, who com- pletely reconditioned it. He also built a small motor so that the ol'!'ery may be turned automatically by an electric switch. It will be permanently on exhibition in the lobby of the Physics Building. Baloptical Popular Another exhibit equally .popular was the automatic baloptican ma- chine which showed 68 colored slides of Schenectady, including 13 of the college. This exhibit will henceforth be seen at the Schenec- tady Museum; but a plan has .been suggested whereby the machine may be brought to the campus each fall to show entering freshmen some of the interesting things about Schenectady. It is hoped that they will get better acquainted with Schenectady through these slides. Dr. Kaylor to Address Biology Meeting Tonight At the first biology colloquium of the semester to be held in the Bi- ology building, room 205 at 8 P. M. tonight, Dr. Cornelius Kaylor, In- structm in the department of Ana- tomy at the Medical College of Sy~·­ acuse University, will report on h1s experiments with the salamander egg. Dr. Bennetton said \certainly an exemption\ in discussing his case. He has dependents and was mar· ried last summer. Mr. Baker be- lieved that he would be placed in a deferred classification and would not have to go this November. He, too, has dependents including his wife. ----0---- Glee Club Will Give First Recital Nov. 8 The Union College Glee Club will present its first recital before the student body during chapel period on Friday, November 8 Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh announced .today. The whole glee club will participate in a fifteen minute program which will feature English compositions. Two prominent members of the Republican and Democratic na- tional committee~ will debate the question, \Has the New Deal Hampered Legitimate Business,\ in a half hour open forum of the· Empire State Town Meeting in the Old Chapel at 3 p. rn. Sunday. Leslie Schoolcraft of the Graduate Council and was given to encourage interclass athletic contests. It will be awarded to that class which has scored the most points during the :y car Bill Ketz, director of the in- tramural and class athletic program said. The name o.f the class will be engraved on the plate which fronts the bal{e!ite base below the figure. Ketz hoped to place the trophy in The Schenectady County exhibit articles were valued at about $12,- 000. Some of the smaller articles were returned to Schenectady by Mr. Milton M. Enzer Wednesday, but the rest will be brought back in three trucks. Among the smaller articles shown were examples of woodworking by Dr. Berg, and two totem poles made of desert bones by Dr. Burges Johnson. Part of the exhibition will ·be on display at the Schenectady Museum and it is hoped that the library will show Dr. Kaylor, in very delicate oper- ations under a microscope, has suc- ceeded in temoving the female nu- cleus from the salamander egg, only parental heredity. In the col- loquium, he will explain the oper- ation in .detail and also discuss the development of the embryo. Many biologists from neighboring colleges are expected to be here for the lecture, Dr. Scott said. All bio- logical students are invited. The group will sing four num- bers Dr. Tidmarsh said. They will be \The Vicar of Bray,\ \The Min- strel's Song\ by Adam de la Hale, \Loch Lommend\ the traditional Scotch air and the \Cornish Fid- dler's Song.\ The dates of the Glee Club trips have not been announced yet. Debating this all-important elec- tion issue, wiH be Chat·!es J. Grady. eastern director of the labor division of the Republican national committee, and Professor James J. O'Brien of Fordham University, a member of the Democratic national committee. The first 15 minutes of the pro- gram will feature addresEes by the party leaders while the remainder of the half hour will be devoted to questions posed by members of the audience and answered by the speakers. one of the student lounges. Interclass trophies have given out before 'but never for rolling up the most points during a season. Cups and medals have been awarded to classes which have emerged the victors in single sport competitions in the past. This is the first time that a trophy will be awarded in· the history of the college Professor Wittner said. Besides the figure, the trophy is heavily ornamented with scroll work and bronze leaves around the l' .\\<>'i'l'> the historical documents in its new W cases. [~j . fo;r;!f~e~;a~~x o~a~h~e:~::~~~~~ }~~':;~ '~*~'~'- ~,:.·.:.-.~~··· ,, ,·,•,•.v· .,.;.~:···:..v•,,,o; •. •N·\:~·'\•'><«>»:-:<•=\'>•'~ base. Victory herself stands upon the crest of a wave. The wings, features of the face and other parts of victory's body are finely molded. County World's Fak Exhibit Com- mittee of which Mr. Enzer has .been executive secretary. In 1939 a:bout $1300 needed to purchase exhibit cases, balopticon and slides, ex- penses of transportation, etc. was raised through private subscription with the aid of the Schenectady Ad- vel'tising Club.

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSlS, FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 1. 1940 Olnttrnr Harrison Has Traced Bad Money, Advised Roosevelt During Career Bez·tram Hanison loolrs much un-~·r--~~~~- FOL'XIll'!J 1877 \ I Causa l'rrsa l'aru/,· . I ssai\ .:\h~iii!Jcr -of thL\ .\~~I.H.:ta·h:d L'uliL·-gt~lt.! -1 1 n.:~:::. c.Uttt dh,tl'iUut~•r- uf -the-C·ul· \q;Lt.t't• llH~t>:-.l ~l\hl_;(~f(idal lt~·w:--l,:li>~~-fl•f-tTte t--l~·dl'lllb of Union Cullt>!-W. Publttih~d 'l'Ut!~­ d.l~ a.n,l Fttda_y~ t'hluu~liunt tilt· l'ollt :,..:t· )lar. E1litlifflil Jt;,(,Ju:::-;-- ~iiTfma~t-Cl.d I, l\uiuu---cL 7 \.'- 7 \_u_n-pn~. T~;ii~ ~dtl'1hl't:ulr. ·!-111::~ Puhliea.tion--{)ft'it·t~, Tht_• -lL_L_i;.(G:- Pt·t·----~ 33t-S-l7ite ~t~~·ht·Heetad)', ~.-t: Tdt-pltoltt~ 1-U ll lilre the a veragl\ collegian's idea of I how a theatre director should look. To see him is to see th£' average ·business executive who malws the I 5:23 evezy evening- for Garden City.! But ~r. I:Jan ison, who has never\ acted m hzs life and would not act 1 executive pt~.rts, say::; he has had a far more .interc:o:ting life and his scrap book shows it. I iII I I I Entt·t\t•d ai tltt.· ~dWJtt't'tall_y Pl-;;:-t0ft'in· -a~ ~t·~~l,hu·•;-~Iatl .:\fattt\r: ~ub~t·t·iplt~Jil pu;·c Ftvc- t~·llt~ a-l.,~~y-;$:Il1U- :L~·-;,-,~l~h\·cretl a.l-ay\lil-:t-'~ in liiL' l'tlllt.·d ::5tatn·. He doesn't want to talk theatre. _ All anybody tallrs about when they do ta:lir theatre for an interview is States :\lavy and was uncertain how art, he sa.jd, and he gave the im-[ to get 1 id of it. He wrote to Mr. pression that he didn't care to talk 1 Harrzson, who suggested a lawyer. art. But he did have loU> o·f othez Back came the followmg letter Senior Board .James E. Twining, Jr ............................... Editm-in-Chief Laslm·r Sc-hwartz ................................ Business Manager Kap(•.l ~tl lluu~\:-.J:-;.:.:1 Rolwrt S. Schul!Jerg .............................. Associate Editor r'l!l .~tgltl,l (ll}l.t lloU:--t.'- t.l·tf~.tJ;, l'aul W. Bf'cl•er ................................... Associate Editor John D. Phillips ..................................... Sports Editor 1':--i l't• ... i!PH Ht~u ... t· 1-\:'ln John l'. Ll\wis ..................................... Editor-at-Large \(',1,1], ~·•llt>ll. :'\c•J'Ih t'dlt·~t· li-~1 1 11.; . J. Donald Haigh. . .................... Circulation Manager 1'111 [ltda Tl:tl'a ll\ll .. t· l-1:.!11 REPRESeNTEE> FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers ReP•·esentative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N. Y, CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO ~-- -----~----- ------ Junior Board Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman Allen Orton Samuel P01tnoy Jonathan Pt·arson Sophomore Boa,rd Robl'I't Dake. Robert Bishop, Granger Tripp, Thomas O'Connor, Hichard \Vatanabe. Arthur Cohen, Charles Chase. Everett Mc- Caz !y, :-\unnan Fu>., RobPI t Haynez. Robert Allan. Photographic Editor ~tani('Y Uret'll~lt'lll Ju.st1n Pt?l'b;tC'In Iss uP Editor .... Business Staff Joseph Jaycox Ha1 old }!Ps~enger ::\1yron MiH~ David RosPnblum . ................. Solomon Blechmon Assistants Evez·ptt ::\fcCa rty Granger Trip.p Friday, ;:-.;ovPmbPr 1. 1940 SAFETY VALVE The avmved theoretical justification of some of our Amer- ican competitive sports-notal.>ly football-explains them as safety valves thmugh which you can let off its animal antag- onisms in a relatively harmless way. It is argued that the gridiron i::; preferable to the battlefield. While there is con- siderable truth in this interpretation of om· games, many unde1·gracluates firmly believe that there is more to football than intelligently directed brute instinct. We claim for it the role of a charactel' builder, a teacher of g·ood sportsmanship. ~on-playing students, hov·:ever, tend unconsciously to assume that these intangible assets of the gridiron are the monopoly of the participating teams. As a matter of fact, football can i nculc:th• nn mnJ <' 'rl>a raetPr' nJ' 'spnrtsmnnsh ip' intn ll play- ing :;;quad than it can teach to its cheering section. things .to say and all of them dealt daced June 20, 1923: with the theatre in some way or other. Be.jng a director taught Mr. Har- rison how to spot a counterfeit bill. Before the war he directed William J. Burns, the famous New York de- tective and secret service agent in a movie of the agent's adventuz es. At luncheon the detective invited the directoz \to come along to Philadelphia with me.\ Hunh;on went and he was Burns constant partner in the famed Philadelphia $100 Mcnroe head counterfeit case. At the same time he got lirst hand information for the movie. The first bill to be found so puzzled officials in Phila- delphia and Washington that they could hardly decide whether it was counterfeit or not Mr. Harrison re- called. First investigation seemed to- prove that it had been stolen in transit fl·om the sub treasury to •the treasury office and the seal added. Further investigation showed that the bills werP printed on separate sheets of thin government pape1 and would sepal ate when dipped in boiling water. Burns traced the case to a young pl'intPr and engraver. They had been 'bleaching dollar •bills to get the govemment paper, splitting them so as to print on the other side free of any sort of stain and then printing- them. Expel ts, they had d£'reived banlrs but not Burns, Mr. Hanison said. All the time the detertive operated, his director was with him and he learned much Rbout counterfeit money. Today Mr. Hanison says he isn't as sure of himself and would not chal!Pnge any Union student to a game of identifying suspicious money. Back in 1923 Mr. Harrison offei- ed Franklin D. Roosevelt, then vice- president of the Fidelity and De- posit Company of Maryland with offices at 120 Broadway, New YO! k City, professional advice. \I'm not a Democrat or a Republican but I did answer Roosevelt the one time he called en me,\ he said in denying active interest in the present elec- tion. Roosevelt had written a movie script dealing with the United \My dear Mr. Harrison: \:Many thanks for sending me the name cf Mr. W. Herbert Adams. \I am very green in the matter of moving picture contracts and I am glad to ·have the name of someone of real experience in this line of legal work . \Very sincerely yours, \Frankl·in D. Roosevelt\ At present Mr. Hanison is oc- cupying \Tiger\ Albert's, publicity directo·r of the Republican Club on the campus, room. The wa·lls are plastered with Willlde stickers so as a jolre he put up the Roosevelt letter which he framed. Tiger's re- actions were not exactly fa vor·able, Mr. Han ison reported. Today Mr. Harrison is en- gaged in the task of reducing the stage directions of \The Road to Rome\ for a stage of the Mounte- banlr's size. The play was originally written for a much larger stage and thus he has to rework the en- trances and ·movements of the ac- tms. He usually draws a stage in front of him and uses checkers to plot the movements of the actors. After· the opening of Ward More- house's play \Miss Quis,\ the au- thor demanded and got the direc- tor's checkers. But a minor tragedy occured at Union. Mz·. Harrison could find no checkers. Solving the pwblem quickly, he bought a nickle packet of \chiclets\ and labeled the sugar coated candy with the actor's names. Then he moved them nround, charting the gum. \If I get hungz·y,\ the director said, \here's sustenance.\ ----0--- M'OLOGY The business staff of the Con- cordiensis wishes to extend its apol- ogies to the Schenectady Coca-Cola Bottling Company for the omission, through a printer's error, of the name of that firm from the Coca- Cola advertisements which appear- ed in the Concordiensis on October 11 and October 22. Temperate intercollegiate athletic l'ivalry is a healthy Whethez· the student body of this already filled with compared notes thing with one'::; O\\'n student body in nmcous support of the august institution is perplexed or on classes cut or slept through team. But the uncontrolled and unfriendly a.ntagonism to not is rather a difficult point to de- when B. Johnson asked the \Times\ tet·mine. If said student body is not why he should vote for a man who opponents which so easil~· develops on any campus in the heat perplexed, at least it has a z·eason- was promising a public utilities ex- of a tense season defeats whatever altruistic worth the o·ame a'bl: right to indulge in a little I perience to the White Ho1;1se. more • • • b fruztless head-sctatshzng. money to the poor and stmultane- Jf; supposed to have. It IS a:pt to engender a near hatred for On Tuesday next a fair propo1-, ously lower taxes to the lich. Now a nein·hborillO\ institution for which were it not for an oval I :ion o_f the backbone of America things were getting complicated. ,.... '\' ' ' mcludmg some 200-odd members of I The author of \Ladder to the of pigskin, we mig-ht have the best regards as a colleague i Union's citizenry, will totter wee~ly Moon·: pointed cut that he'd never interested in academic ends similar to our own. Immodemte to sundry polling places to decide use his classroom to sway a stu. l'ivah·~· then-enjo~·able as some of us find it-is luxury which can be ill-affol'ded. whethez· it wants its presidential dent, .but he does swing a deadly hair combed or otherwise. its presi- i typew.z iter, ? nd his log-ic seemed the dential accPnts modulated or ro- less pseudo and the more sensible. bustly independent of range and Things were becoming unsettled, The most heated and therefore the most dangerous rivalry resonan~e.. and when Johnny March announced th, l_' · . 1 d 1 , . . 't, 19 'O · .. · . t . . , L t 1 Now, It zs all very true that the to the world in general that he On e . Ill Oil ::iC 1£' U e gets I S \' he<U lllg 01110110\\ · e ·portion of Minez·va's mighty SCO didn't like third terms, bankruptcy u::; keep OUI' heads, remember that football may he able to who may or may not \Vote Row A'' or reformers of the Roosevelt ilk. 'ld h · f · · . . en Tuesday constitutes only a quai- thPy got downright complicated. bm c aracter I we g1ve It a chance, put aside an~· 1dea of ter of the whole, but propaganda counting buttons on dignified a \grudge\, and look for a good game. Insofar as in us lies, pro and con, ·buttons for and chests is a difficult proposition, and h ld · · · against, and psuedo-logical deduc- pretty .fruitless for all. When the \'l!e S OU t1·y practlcmg spo1·tsmansh1p. J. P. L. tions this way or that beat with Democrats dropped Mr. Roosevelt's OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES A student at EASTERN NEW MEXICO COLLEGE has applied to Mrs. Frank Potts, dii·ec.tor of housing, for knowledge she might have a.bout any widow with three or four children who might be susceptible to a proposition of marriage. Afraid· he might be drafted the student eaznestly requested hf'l:p in lining u-p enough \emergency fa!mily\ to make him exempt. A. C. P. * Pe1sonal notice in the \Daily Iowan\ UNIVERSITY OF IOWA: \John after this when you borrow my pants :bring them ·bacl{ the next morning. I have· an 8 o'clock class.\ Furthermore, it's hard for the average college man to have any class at all these days without trousers.\ A. C. P. * Phi Beta Kappa, national honor scholastic society, has a woman presi- dent for the first time since it was established In 1776. She is Dean Marjorie Nicolson of SMITH COLLEGE. The LEHIGH student body wa:s on its best house-party behavior last week-end .than it has .been for seven or eight years according to the Bethlehem Police Desk Sergeant. The \Sarge\ doesn't remember one student a·ppearing •before him this year for any misdemeanor. * Thirty-five students at HAMILTON COLLEGE reported that they would refuse to fight in a recent poll of the campus, whereas the ma- equal fervor on the \can 's\ and the picture behind their college presi- \can'ts\. dent in Chapel, and thE> Republi- Thus the opinions of Union men cans freed gas balloons in front of from the Metropolitan area must him, the men of '41 to '44 inclusive have been mightily influenced when had good rea.son to feel the budget New Ym k's fanatical \Sun\ report- and defense had been forgotten in ed that Willkie must be quite the the heat of battle. thing because Union college's \42- Now 200 of those who should be year\old\ president had declared perplexed if they aren't are faced for him. Staunch specimens that with the problem of weighing ora- they are, your Union student body tory, letters and buttons against seemed to weather that one success- one another, and picking the right fully. lever. Good luck, gentlemen, may The little conclave at Tony's w.ts the bigger buttons win! The \GRIDIRON\ will be distributed to Students tomorrow morning I I :00 to 12 noon EACH STUDENT must get his in Silliman Hall. own copy and show both his Athletic ticket and Williams Game a.dmission ticket. jority admitted that they would wait to ;be drafted. Last spring at the snmP coJlpge fifty ;;turlent'< said they wouldn't fight if war was dPclared. ·..:;,. ________________________________ , CALENDAR Tonight 8 p. m.·-Biolegy CoHoquiu~-­ Room 205, Biology Bu!ldmg. Speaker, Dr. Cornelius Kay- lor '\:Fhe Development of H~ploid Salamander Larvae.\ 'l'l>lnOl'l'OW 10 a. m. - Daily Assembly, Speaker, Professor Mortimer F. Sayre, \The Problem of Waste in a Democracy.\ Chemistry movies for chemis- try students. Old Chapel. 2 p. m.-Varsity Football, Union vs. Williams. Mont Pleasant Field. Varsity Cross ·Country. Union vs. Swarthmore at Schenec- tady. Freshman Cross Country. Union vs. :Delhi State School at Schenectady. Freshman Pa.rty. Williams game, Hale House dinner and Hanna Hall dance. Outing Club trip to North Creek. 7 p. m.-Phi Beta: Kappa <Up- per Hudson Association) Din- ner Troy Club. Speaker, Dr. Mark Mohler, Professor of Po- lit-ical Science and History, \History and Politics.\ 7:30 p. m.-Deba:te, Union vs. University of Vermont. Silli- man Hall. Sunday 11 a. m. - Sunday Service. Preacher, D-r. James Phinney Baxter, III, President of Wil- l i a m s College. M e m o r i a I Chapel. 3 p. m.-Empire State Town Meeting. Old Chapel. 4-5 p. m.-Organ Recital. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. Memorial Chapel. 7:30 p. m.-Christian Association Hymn .Sing at Prof. and Mrs. Benjamin Whitaker's home, 6 Terrace Lane South. M~nday 7:30 p. m. - Philomathean So- ciety, Silliman Hall. Band Rehearsal, Gymnasium. '1.·1 .~ CINEMA Procto1•s: \A Bispatc·b h•om Reu- ter's.\ The coming attractions give one the idea that this picture was going- to be a thriller concerning a m;s- tery man, ·bUt it turns out to be a Wa1·ner Bt•otbers' biography o.f a mart .fhat advanced communication. The nex.t time that you wire home .for money, or to .that certain s0meone in So-and to; you may thank Julius Reuter for he was the man to tur.n the telegra·ph wire over to the people. The story ::otarts in 1933 with a news courier on his way through Germany with news fzom India to London, the fastest means of com- munication being a man on horse- back. The audience gets a good idea of young Reuter's ambit·ions because he explains early telegraph experiments at the age of twelve. Time moves and next Reuter <now ·Edwazd G. Robinson) is oper- ating a pigeon post-bridging gaps bet ween teleg.ra.ph lines. It is here that love intei·feres momentarily slowing ambitious Reuter's plans. His wife, Ida ! Edna Best> proves invaluable in his business; check- ing his .poetical, impractical assist- ant <·Eddie Albc tJ. Progress passes the pigeon post and it becomes obsolete. This does not stop Julius Reuter, be has more ideas. It dawns upon him to use the telegraph to send news in addition to the market quo- tations, and personal messages. The1e you are men. Reuter's were the first leased wires for news .purposes, and he sold his services to the newspapers. When Julius Reuter sent Louis Napoleans ·speech on peace to Lon- don, before the Emperor himself had finished it, his name and busi- ness was made. Best job ·of acting--Pre-Hitler Al- bert Basserman, self exiled German. \And gentleman the name is Roy- ter.\ ~~~~~~-~ • Patronize Concordy Advertisers There is something delight- ful about the clean, exhilarating taste of ice-cold Coca-Cola. The minute it passes .your lips you know it for what it is,- pure, wholesome, delicious. And you welcome the refreshed feeling that follows. THAT REFRESHES Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by 6C'HE!\!ECTADY COCO-COLA BOTTLING COMPA!\!Y u Pu1 Jw Wil Berl{E tom or age t Iiams· has g conte: both get u Mont Co a over lost o ing t1 have and ~ sweet bing 1 GarnE year. bury, 22-20, Wil will I favor, has. a perfo; gua1·d band has touch and I quite row found R. off en: score• is mo Iiams sea~o A l front field. wall again a littl two 12 much of th that ~lowe be gar R. P. Jack limeli Garn< get t Coucl ing j starti down He'll place was and 1'1k<' from has t Nitch blatt fir_;t Th1 ably the e signn ~>xpec Killi< the I injur· bert at th be ir Unioz the aeria Dorsi Gold] Bake Sawy z·egul field Norr: tice < Sta ably and well Rice Bill l guth, Ossie Meet half, Me its b< ning, makE sure Forb other Forb long in se He i Meet the l slate row. the grad are 1 nock lack! ning

a a a ps re ly es k- ed s. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1940 Pag-e Three UNION GRIDDERS ENCOUNTER WilLIAMS HERE ®------ Purple Favored i:n Traditional G.ame; I Lambert Rating The intramural volley ball com- lr:~tramura.l Volleyba:ll Two New :MenTo Start in G.a.rnet line Favors Williams e:~~~~ 4w~~~~~~\~ 1 e ~~a! 0 ~::;ds~~= Through the defeat last week of ing the Chi Psi fraternity will meet the Union football team by the the Delta Chi's in. the Alumni Gym- undefeated Engineers from Troy nasium at 12:45 p. m. On Tuesday the Lambert Rating committee has afternoon at the Eame time Delta dropped the Dutchmen kom .932 Upsilon will tangle with Kappa to their present standing of .825. Sigma and Psi Upsilon will meet Although the WiUiams team man- Delta Phi on Wednesday. Goldblatt, Slingerla.nd Slated to Bolster Uni.on Forward WaH Against Heavy Visitors By JACI\. PI!:ARSON ~--------,._,; ___ ---- Wi!Uams College wi:ll leave its Berl{shi.re lair almost en masse tomorrow for Hs lllennial .pi·lgrim- age to Schenectady for the WH- liame-Union g.ame, a contest which has grown to be one of the major· contests of the athletic year· for both institutions. The game wiU get underway at 2 o'clocl{ on the Mont Plea~ant High school field. . Coach Chal'!ey Caldwell wiH briong over a powerful team w·hich has lost only one game thi£ year, •bow- ing to Army, 20-19. The Ephmen have won their other four tests and arc definite favorites. to gain sweet revenge for the 27-7 drub- bing they .took from the undefeated Garnet eleven at W·illiamstown last yeat·. Williams has beaten Middle-· bury, 14-6; Buffalo, 27-0, and Tufts, 22-20, and tied Bowdoin, 13-13. · Williams' great reserve power will be the greatest factor in its favor, ·but the Purple grid machine has. always been an up and down · performer and may be caught off i guard by an alert and in::pired I band of underdogs tomot·r·ow. Union has managed to score only one touchdown in its last two games and has a losing streak which is quite likely to go to thr·ee tomor- row unleso some new power is found. Change in Line R. P. I. and Vermont had good offenses, but on the basis of points scored to date, the Williams eleven is more dangerous than either. Wil- liams has scored 95 points this sea~on to 52 for Union. A 195-pound line will operate in front of the veteran Williams back- field. This is the heaviest forward wall the Dutchmen have run up. against all season. Union ave.rages. a little over 180 pounds. In its last two games. Union ha:m't picked up much yardage through the center of the fine. Faced with the fact that its best offensive weapon has ~lowed to a walk. the Union team began to· run the ends against R. P. I. last week and Co-captain Jacl{ Vannier stepped into the limelight. Vannier was. the big Garnet ground gainer, but he didn't get the blocking he deser·ved and Couch Nels Nitchman is consider- ing making two changes in his starting lineup to improve the downfield blocking department. He'll start Doug Slingerland in place of \Tiny\ Weintraub, who was very slow against R. P. I., and Stew Goldblatt will probably 1 t!l.kP ,....\'~!' thP ..:fgJ·ting gtHlrri pn~f from Adam Ciesinski. Ciesinski has been playing a good game, but Nitchman is going to give Gold- blatt an oppmtunity to make his fir_;t start of the year. Additions to Line Norris at Wingbaeli 1- ~ llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ~ § H'sthe § :: KELLY FACTORY ~ The rest of the iineup will prob- ably be ,the oame as last week with the exception of the wingback as- signment, where George Nonis is l'xpected to be in place of \Boss\ Killian. Norris missed most of the R. P. I. fracas because of an injm·ed leg. Co-captain Jack Gui- - bert and Diamond Marotta will be for the Best ~ in Smart Clothes ~ at the end posts and will probably be in for a hard afternoon, since Uni·on is expected to pass again~t the Ephrnen's admittedly poor aerial defense. Slingerland and Abe Dor,sman wHI be the tackles and Gold]llatt or· Ciesinski and Bob Baker will perform at guards. Bud Sawyer will probably start at his regular center position. The back- field will once again consist o.f .the Nonis-Vannier-Diclt Balch-Ed Eus- = At Prices ~ ~You Can Afford to Pay~ = = §=_= Fea.furing Authenticarly ===-§ Styled University Clothes tice combination. Starters for Williams will prob- ·ably be the following: Bob Wallace and Joe Mucha or Chuck Broth- well and A! Hearne, ends; Jock Rice and Hugo Oswald, tackles; Bill Sebring and Captain Bob Her- guth, guards; Jack Daly, center; Ossie Tower, quarterbacl{; Shaun Meehan, left half; Bill Forbes, right half, ·a.nd Herb Holden, fullback. Meehan is rated by Williams as its best back. His brolten field run- _ ning, pass receiving and kicking make him a triple-threat and a sure starter in every game. Bill Forbes and Herb Holden are the other high scorers on the club. Fm·bes tallied against Army on a long pass and has played 60 minutes KELLY CLOTHES INC. 621 River St., Troy aged to eke out a victory over the These are the only scheduled en- boys from Tufts by means of a counters at the present but the field goal in the last 50 seconrls of opponents for the first round have play their rating remained the been selected as follows: Kappa same as last week. That is they Alpha vs. Kapf)a N1:1; Beta Theta now !.ave a .004 advantage over the Pi vs. Alpha Delta Phi; Phi Sigma Garnet Eince their position is one Kappa vs. South College; Sigma , a·bove Union's with a .829 rating. P.hi vs. Phi Delta Theta; Neutral;; It is through this method of point v;;. Phi Gamma Delta; North Col- . system that the ·Lambert Commit- lege vs. Theta Delta Chi; Sigma 'te·e selects the winners of the East- Chi vs. Phi Sigma Delta. 'ern Gridiron encountei·s and thus , The intramural volley ball rules thei1· connnotation on the game to are: ,. be playecl here in Schenectady on Teams shaH consist of eight men. Saturday afternoon is \Williams Substitutions can be made at Wins.\ The Lambert Trophy rat- any time when baU is dead. ings are not entirely on a percen- A player may re-enter the game tage basis and are not judged but once. strictly on the records, but on fac- The ball may be touched only tors such as personnel, condition th.ree times by one team before and morale of the· team. Defeat or being returned over the net. victory is not strictly a basis of A ball other than the service may rating, unless the game reveals be recovered from the net provided fundamental weakness or str.engtu. the player avoids contact with the In preparing this week's rating net. scale the committee has encoun- A game is won when either team tered the greatest difficulty in scores a two-point lead with 15 or ranking the middle and IeEser col- more points lege teams, which they say \have --- been eBgrossed In one of the most FRESHMAN NOTICE topsy-turvy week-to-week feuding in college football histor·y.\ The most promoted team of the week is Lafayette, unbeaten, un- tied and now up 31 points over the October 20 standings. On Tuesday, November 12, the members of the freshman class will take a set of tests prepared by the New York Stale Department of Education. All regularly scheduled cellege a.ppointments for freshmen for this day will .be. suspended. Each freshman will report at 8 a. m. and 1:30 p.m. to the place assigned The Concordiensis wishes to apol- to him for his freshman psycho- ogize to Professor Helmer L. Webb logical tests, The test periods will for misquoting him in an interview be three hours each. in answer to Robert Wortendyke's This announcem.ent is made early letter. The Concordiensis also apol- so that each freshman will have ogizes to Bob Wortendyke for cer- ample time to make arrangements tain statements made about him in l to insure his attendance. the article on Mr. Webb. C. F. Garis, Dean WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. Call Ball and PHONE 6-3456 Ball Will Call COLLEGE MEN PREFER ••• ARROWS, i:£ for no other reason than downright good looks. You'll always see Arrows worn by men who know and un• derstand about the finer things of life. Yet, Arrow shirts cost no more ! For two dol. Iars you get the inimi- table Arrow collar, Mitoga.fit body, and a style of \savoir faire\ that comes only in Arrow shirts. Come in before the game for your Arrow selections. NUSBAUM'S ~47-451 STATE STREET in several of the Ephmen's games. He is a sophomore. Del DeWindt, Meehan's sophomore substitute, is the beEt kicker on the team and is slated for plenty of action tomor- _ row. Holden and Marsh Hannock, the brother of Win Bannock who graduated from Union last year, are the Purple passing stars. Han- - nock is Holden's understudy, but lacRs the latter's blocldng and run- §2 Blocks N·o1·th of Hoosick St.§ ni n g ab iii ty, illlllllllllllllllllllll Ill 11111111111111111111 ffi Ketz Hopeful of ·Garnet Victory In Meet With Swarthmore Tomorrow By ROBERT HAYNER ,~------- - - -------- .coach Bill Ketz, after watch~ng da·y, 0nly to .nave Rensselaer sweep his chal'g.es ·dash through a brisk the next five positions and tak~ workout m the duel~: of Thursday the race. These two whom Coach evening, drew what might almoEt Ketz has called the 'best freshmen b<; termed an enthu~i~stic puff upo~ I prespects he's· had in hi:; years at hts age-mellowed pipe, a~d radt- Union, wHI be supported by Henry ?ted exuberance. _Lest th1s amaz- Sturgis, Adams, and Reed, the mg. tu.rB of e':'ents oe taken as. false other fr·eshmen who placed in the optimiSm, Btll came out w1th a first ten in their first meet last concr:te . stat~ment with .rega.rd Saturday. Very little of a specific to h1s teams ~hances m Its nature is known concerning the meet Saturday agamst Swarthmore. Delhi squad ·but it is believed that \W' . I '\ h 'd ' e r~ commg a ong ·. e sa1 , the Ga1·net yearlings will give a flauBtmg a st.?p ~~tch m the face~ :;twng account of themselves, par- of onloekers .. Were. c.oming alon!f. ticularly if the squad shows more Indeed, this sprnt of uphft than it did a week ago. seemed to pervade the entire squad, as they prepped for their next-to- last· meet of the season tomerrow. Whatever Swarthmore may bring to Schenectady, they will meet a Garnet team determined to salvage as much a.~ possible .from the rest of a season that has thus far pro- duced but one triumph in four starts. Co-captains Don Collins and Doc Maines will lead the Dutch- men to the starting line at 12:45 tomorrow morning, and it is. highly possible that upon these two rest the greater part of Union hopes over the 4.7 mile course. They will be supported by Bernie O'Neil, Bob Reed, and sophomores Charles Snell, Bob Shepherd, and Paul Quinn. Maines has been handi- capped recently with a leg strain, but Thursday's workout gave no evidence that this· will be of much trouble tomorrow. After losing a heartbreaking 28-27 decision to R. P. I. in Troy last Saturday, Ketz's freshmen hanicrs enter thei.r second meet of th•' sea- son over the local course. Their opponents upon this occasion will be Delhi Agricultural School, which always comes up with a better than average cross-country squad. The yearlings will be paced into the meet tomonow by Ketz's two sen- sational first-year men, Ken Suther- land and Dave VanDyck, who fin- ished one-two in Troy last Satur- SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper, One Step frorr State Streei FOR Arrow Shirts A look at the records of the two Union squads is anything but op- timistic in its effect. The fresh- men, of course have run but on!.' meet, and that last wee!{ in Troy. The va1·sity lost its first two, one to Vermont, and the second, a tri- angular meet with N. Y. U. and Sy1·acuse in New York City. Then came a victory over Middlebm·y here, and the crushing defeat by R. P. I. last Saturday. Button-down is looking up! B UTTON-DOWN COLLARS are becomin~ more popular than ever this Fall. We have many dandy Arrow patterned shirts (just arrived) with the very smart Dover buttoned down Arrow collar. You ought to see 'em now. • $2, up Dan A. Donahue 240-242 State Street Clothing .. ,... ¢., o?f' \!f.OL ~·'~{)(\$ WE MADE IT! ... and are we proud of that handgomc Gordon Oxford shirt! In fact we have proudly shirted college men for genera- tions-and today Arrow is still the favorite to win on any campus. Gordon Oxford has the famous hutton·down Dovct· collar, Sanfor· izcd-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than I%) , Invest $2. today in this time-honored ce- lebrity. Another buck will huv an Arrow tie to top it off. See your Arrow dealer today, ARROW SHIRTS

Page Four Garris Announces Sen,ior Exams Dean Explains Purpose Of Graduate Record To Senior Chapel Announcement of the Graduate Record Examinations for Union seniors was made Wednesday morn- mg 111 1-.1~n1ulial Chapel by Duan Charles F. F. Garis to an assembly of member::; of the class of 1941. In announcing. that the examina- tions would be held on the morn- ing,; of December 16th and 17th, Dean Garis explained that the re- sults would in no way be used against a student, but might be· used to his advantage. The re- sults will be included as part of the i·ndividual's permanent College record. Test Intellectual Attainment The examinations, wnich we1··~ es- tablished on Union's campus only la:;t year, a1·e chiefly for the te;;:;t- ing of certain types of intellectual attainment. Dean Garis explained tha·t the1e are to be two parts to the entire examination as developed by the non-professional graduate schools of Harvard, Yale, Prince- ton and Columbia Universities. Th~ fir'st part will consist of a general examination covering phy- sical ~ciences, humanities, biologi- cal Hiences, social studies, verbal facto!' and mathematics. The sec- ond part will be an examination on advanced subjects which wi!l be selected by the individual students. Dean Gari~ further explained that t·he purpo:;e of these tests for Union :,tudents is merely to give them an opportunity to see how they rate as compared with s·eniors in other institution:;, but if the students wish to have their records used as references for applications fo1· graduate schools they may do :;o. In no event should the examina- tions be taken lightly by the stu- dents the Dean said, since they will be of no value whatsoever if the abilities of the participants are not truthfully recorded. -------0---- IN THE MAIL IJea1 Editor, It has been the practic~ of iat'l for various students to prnfe.;, pub- licly their sup.port fm• par tku. tl prf.'siden:tial nominees. An•l it nas been my ·practice of late to remain rathet· reticent concerning the com- ing election. However, I feel that as a ll ue American and a firm be- liever in Democracy, I must come forth and openly endorse a man who was .born in a great ·mansion, who never !mew what work was, who knows more a:bout yam· busi- ness than you do. who had two or more nurses to answer and satisfy his every whim, who during the last great wa·r, when most men were taking up arms for their country, obtained a job as assistant secre- tary of the navy, who joined two business ventures, both of which proved 100<;( losses to investors_, who served as governor of the State of New York and left it financially r.uined when he turned to greater fields, who has served as our Pres- ident for two terms and who in that time has forced our country into financial chaos, and who now desirrs to perpetuate himself and his family in office forever. Really now, do I have to tell you his name? Yours until the Supreme Court 1\eally gets pacRed, Floundering Franlt ----0---- !';ENIOR NOTICE The Graduate Record Examina- tions for seniol s will be given on the mornings of Monday and Tues- day, Decem'ber 16 and 17. All regu- larly .scheduled college appoint- ments for seniors for these two mornings will be suspended. After- noon appointments will be met as scheduled. The examinations will begin at 8 a. m. C F Garis, Dean ---0·--- PLEDGE NOTICE Phi Sigma Kappa Fraternity an- nounces the pledging of George Glenn, '44, of Fonda, and Donald R. Miller, '44, of Schenectady. U nq ue stiona bly Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1940 Democrats Vote for Victory Fenster Attacks Both Parties Williams' Head Preaches Sunday In Advocating Thomas Candidacy To the Editor: Dr. Tidr:narsh Resumes Organ Recital With Afternoon Program I should Uke to remind the mem-1 war, and I assure you that far· more. bers of Union Col·!ege that there are atd ·is beiBg given to Britain than more than two candidates for the Roosevelt has dared to say, as is Presidency of the United States shown, for example, in the buying and· that there are reasons why of tremendous quantities of South this is ~mportant. I do this In the African gold to give Britain money form of a letter to the CoBcordien- to further her war. This· spirit has· President James Phinney Baxter . sis despite the obvious limitation shown itself in the wild tales con- III of Williams College wHI preach of space, a limitation that permits cerning the pregnabiHty of the the sermon this Sunday in the littlP of rlPtailR anrl RUpporting p R .. in thP drawing of false analo- Memorial Chapel at 11 a. m. In the facts, because I believe that eveR · .gies between this. country and afternoon Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh a general view of this situation as France, in the denying of religious will resume his regular organ re- a third party support<'r '\ps it will frC'edom to the WitnPs~Ps 0f Jeho- rita!. prove of interest and value to your vah by the Supreme Court in an 8 Dr. Baxter is a graduate of Wil- readers. to 1 d.ecieion, in the actioBs of the J.iams and of Harvard. He received The Union College Democratic Club votes for a victory over Williams tomonow. The president of the club and members of the executive committee m:ay be in the starting lineup. The rest of the club is solidly behind the team as the sign shows. I believe that a vote for either Dies Committee, in the mud-throw-· his bachelor's degree flom Williams Mr. Wi.Jlkie or Mr. Roosevelt is a Jng of the \Kept press\ at aU lib- in 1914 and hiE master's in 1921. Har- vote forwa·r. I admire the Epirit of erals who have not betrayed their vard gave him the degree of Doc- Mr. Willkie. He has uttered many old causes, and in the persecution tor of Philosophy in 1926. He was moving generalities. He has had, of the minor partiee. It has shown first with the Indllstrial Finance however, no experience in govern- itself most obviously in conscrip- Company of New York City and ment administration. He has of- tion. Our government has even re\ later he was an instructo-r in his- fered us almost no specific meas- .fused to give voluntary enlistment tory at Colorado College. He secur·- ures concerning national or inter- a reasonable trial. It ha:: yet to ed a ttaveling fellowshi'P fr.om Bar- national affairs. He has had a du- explain adequately why we need a vard in 1924 and was made an in- bious career in business. He comes large ill-trained army. structor in history there in 1925. In from a small and eelect group of . . • 1927 he was made an assistant pro- big business men many of whom Fall to Understand Cl'lsls fessor and in 1931 an associate pro- mistaldngly believe, as they did in I wonder at the iailure of Ameri- fessor of history. Made a full pro- the last war, that it is to their cans to understand the scope of fessor in 1936, he had also served as best interests <they often honestly the present world crisis. I won- master of Adams House since 1931. believe that they are thinking of der at their naive belief that \the In 1937 he WdS called to the presi- the best interests of th country) forces of good\ are clearly on Brit-. dency of WiUiams College. Count Defines Good Treaties Sforza Calls Hitler's Treaties 'Paper Scraps' At Midweek Lecture Count Carlo Sforza pointed to ut- terances. in Hitler's \Mein Kampf\ to prove his contention that if the Hitlerized Nazi Germany were to win World War II all treaties would be mere \scra-ps of paper.\ The Count told a large audience which crowded the Old Chap~>l Wednesday night that it was der Fuehrer's way to fi.rst soften the enemy throug'h promises and then de.;troy .him. Speaking on \What Makes a Good Treaty,\ the Carnegie visiting professor of intet·national relations and former foreign minister of Italy, defined a good treaty as \one which at the fit·st moment creates a certain amount of dissatisfaction on both sides.\ Asserting that England may gain more by pointing out the way to backward people than by territorial conquests, Count Sforza praised Lord Castlereagh, British statesman who in 1815 after having defeated Napoleon proclaimed that England did not need new territories and that \her generosity would gain for he1· the respect of the world.\ The Count ascri·bed the \immense pres- tige of Britain in the last century\ to the wise policy of Castlereagh. According to Count Sforza, one of the faults of treaty makers has been insufficient preparation and conformation to public opinion. \Honest and well informed news- papers may be the most useful col- la·borators of di·plomats . who .pre- pare a treaty,\' he added. He point- ed out that the difference ·between a nE'wspaper man and a statesman is that a statesman may be obliged to keep secret a part of th<> nego- tiations while a good newspaper man is obliged to tell all he knows at the time. - -- -· 0-- --- Rev. Houghton Attends Colgate Christian Group The Union College Christian Asso- ciation is being represented at the conference of the New York State Student Christian Movement at Colgate University by the Rev. Herbert R. Houghton, Jr., college chaplain. He attended a luncheon at the Colgate Inn at noon today. The Christian Association urged all students to attend the Sunday night hymn sing at the home of Professor and Mrs. Benjamin Whit- take!·, 7 Terrace Lane South. The hymn sings start promptly at 7:30 and are open to all. GET YOUR HAIR CUT The Remodelled SANITARY BARBER SHOP Next to the Union Inn UP TO DATE STYLES 75.00 up Collegiate Fit PATTON & HALL 245 State St. Williams Football Rally Scheduled for Tonight The entire student body of the college is asked to gather in front of Old Chapel at 8 o'clock this evening to spur the Garnet eleven on to victory over the strongl;y favored Williams foot- ball team. The gathering termed a \confidence rally\ by Head Cheerleader Gordon R. Murphy will procede from fraternity house to fraternity house gath- ering momentum until it reaches the Alumni Gymnasium. It is hoped that one of the per- sonnel of the football team will address the rally from the steps of the gym. Immediately follow- ing the talk the \loyal sons of Union\ will make their custom- ary rally visit to the Downtown section of Schenectady. Murphy expressed the hope that the student body will take this oppot1:unity as well as to- morrow afternoon to show their desire for a Union victory. Campbell Explains Constitutional Law Constitutional law was defined as t•epresenting our dedication to the Ideal of a \government of law.;, I1ot of men\ by Dr. Douglas W. Camp- bell speaking on \What Is Consti- tutional Law?\ in the American Faith Series yesterday. \Arguments over the power em· bodied in the conEtitution often conceals a special plea for a par- ticular policy,\ Dr. Campbell said. \This use of the constitution led a member of the House of Repre- sentatives, as early as 1811 to re- mark that it has become fashion- able to eulogize the constitution, whether the object of the eulogy is the extension or the contraction of the powers of governmen:, that whenever its eulogium ie pro- nounced I feel an involuntary a.p- prehension of mischief.\ Constitutional law, in the opinion of Dr. Campbell, represented the rendering of .practical judgements in the face of competing alterna- tives. as the Supreme Court applies the general terms of the Constitu- tion to particular cases. It is, in the words of Justice Frankfurter, \not a fixed body of truth, but a mode of social adjustment,\ Con- ::;titutional law changes as chang- ing problems confront the country and new juetices pass upon the translation of policy into Jaw. to go to war againH Germany. I ain's side and \the forces of evH\ Trustee of Radcliffe doubt whether Mr. Wi!Htie, coming on Germany's. If only the· situation .... l t ' L t t d Besides teacn-I·ng Dr. Baxter· has from such a group, can forget the wet·e so c ear-cu . e us no e- old class iBterests that used to ceive ourselves, what happened in lectured at Cambridge Unive.rsity guide his thinking and thin!{ now Germany was not the work of a and at the Naval War College. He of the gl!>od of the whole pe·ople few ill-advised men but rather the is a trustee of Radcliffe college and and, indeed, of the whole world, inevitable resul·t of great and tragic a member of the executive commit- as is necessary. forces now everywhere in play! tee of the American Histo.rical As- Roos~velt Means War I know that 1'\ti'r. Roosevelt wi.ll take us into this war if Britain is losing. Everything about his background leads me to believe eo. He comes from a group that is culturally more representative of the upper-class Briti~h than of the American people. Despite the Dutch tradition he is more than 80 per cent British. He has always had a strain of militarism in him. In 1919, he recommended perma- nent conscription. He is a distin- guished naval expert. I even doubt whether his New Deal l'eformlng spirit goes deeply into his person- ality. To no emall extent his ad- visers chose him rather than he his advisers. The controlled but passionately pro-British fervor of his speeches, the secrecy of his diplomatic moves. the rumors of dissent with those intimates who might hold him in check, all these frighten me. Men close to the President have intimated that he plans to lead this country into war if Britain is losing, and very possi- bly he will not wait to make sure of Britain's fate without us. DangE>rous Emotional Spirit There is a spirit abroad in this country that to me is tragic and horrible. It is the same spirit that led us into the last war, an emo- tional and irrational spirit, a spirit of righteousneEs that condemns as immoral those who protest againet it, a spirit that in the name of the institutions and ideals it claims to defend, destroys these very things. This spirit has manifested itself in the phrase \total defense,\ which I take to mean that all the ener- gies of our people shall be devoted to militaristic purposes while our economic and spiritual needs are complete!~· neglected, and in the phrase \all aid short of war,\ which always raises in my mind the question how much farther can we go without calling our policy BELLINGER PAINT co. Arthur Tri:gg, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass, Brushes and Wallpaper 126 BROADWAY New world orders are now in the sociation. He is a member of Phi inevitable process of ·being created. Beta Ka·ppa and of the Kappa Al- The only question is what will they pha fraternity. be like. We cannot, moreover, solve Dr. Tidmarsh returns to the or- our great problems by crushing gan after an absence of a week. He out with military might the Ger- will play: man system, for we shall only end I. Toccatta and Fugue in D Minor by creating similar but stronger ................ Johann S. Bach ones in the process. Air for the G String ...... Bach I ask-with Httle· hope of an an- Finale from Trio-Sonata in E swer--how human happiness can Flat ................ , . , .. Bach survive the building of the largest Sinfonia from Cantata Wf' militat-y machine of all time while Thank Thee God ........ Bach one third of the nation is still ill- II. Prelude to \The Deluge\ .... . housed, ill-clothed, ill-fed and our ............ Camille Saint Saens nation better off than any other. T·he Swan .......... Saint Saens Norman Thomas, the Socialist Danse Macabre . , ... Saint Saens candidate for President, has coura.- III. Overture to \William Tell\ .. geously, determinedly, and far- , . . . . . . . . . _ .. Giacchino Rossini sightedly taken his stand against the militarism of both majm· par- ties. More than any othe1· candi- date he understands our true needs. I hope that many of you will vote fm· Mr. Thomas because you believe his platform is· right. I hope that many of you who do not agree with his stand will yet vote for him in protest against the oppoeite plat- form of Mr. Willlde, Mr. Roosevelt & Co. And do not think that your vote will be wasted! A short re- view of American 'history will re- mind you of the many reforms brought to American life through the influence of brave third parties. Norman D. Fenster. Bellevue Cj)uality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 BREAD - ROLLS- PASTRY UIR····················IUI • • 5 It's CASSEDY'S : . : : For Everything in : : RECORDS : • • : We Feature the largest stock : : of records in the city. : : THIS WEEK'S SPECIAL : • II : Musicraft Record : • • : Rack : • • : Holds 50 Records : • • 5 CASSEDY 5 • • : PIANO CO. : 11460 State St. Near P1•octor'sll • • ~-·····················~ A Free Haircut to the Union Man Making the First Touch down Against Williams ACME BARBER SHOP Where Service is a Pleasure 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 DELIVERIES AND SHOE REPAIR SERVICE FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF OUR CUSTOMERS GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Cor. Barrett Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUR MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction'' • 598 B'way- For Better Values Simply Phone 6-9419 Products for BeHer Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. JAMES RESTAURANT 420 STATE STREET We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests GAZETTE PRESS Printers ll L- Vo Tl seriE cam succ toda dent grot acdi five Dcp: has t hl'l' pres i\1: ArnE tern] of t of tl list film: ParE \Ani talk PVE'n prod Mau and Dou hope Ill us Enc gan~ in U Tl Mon Chaj teba 16, • ary Apri film. been n poin prov prog will Hov. a ne He 1 choi dra·r com that Tl duct tron poin hopE sup~ to t1 RE Rorr edy first rapi· com 1 ect1 will tern ning ('\'('[ on : ll Tc nam i'ca's the hori: wha pliC2 fens in a f rorr cf u b£' c o1de of t Unic to s be co fore our up or but the Dt 1918, clasf draf frorr but Uon

ter re- iii.- In as esi- has He As- Phi A!- or- He ach ach ach We ach .~~ • • . • Ill • • • • • k : • a • Ill II • • Ill • • • • • • • • • • • • • Freshman Council Record Posts Distributed Filled Z-511 VoL LXIV., No. 14 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1940 PRICE FIVE CENTS =-=-=·==--=-=-=-==~-==~·=·=·=-==-~-~===============p=====================-=-=-~-=-=============~============-===========~======~=- Five Early f.i1ms To Be Presented By Mountebanks History of Campus Political Clubs Dates BttckMo·re Than Four Decades Marshall Gives Dates For 1940-41 Showings; Add Sound Equipment The Mounte-banks will sponsor a scl\ies of motion picturC' clallsics for campus presentation for the thhd successive year, it was announced today by Roger :\Tar shall, '41, presi- dent o.f the campus theatrical group. Marshall indi·cated ·that, in acdition to the regular series of five Ame·rican film programs, the Department of Fot·eign Languages has donated a sum of money for three foreign language films to be 1 presented under the dub's direction. i\farsha11 declared that the five AmC't\ican \film programs would at- tempt to be as inc! usi·ve as possible of the best of the talking pictures of the early 1930's. Included in the list will be a ni;;-ht of documen'iary films with such motion pictures as Pare Lorentz' \River\ being Rhown. \Anna Christie,\ Greta Garbo's first talking picture as the feature of an Pvening of Gar·bo presentations; a procluetion of musical films led by F1·eshmen, Sophomores . In Cane Rush Saturday Two o'cloc]{ Saturday after- n.oon will be the zero hour for · members of Union's two under- . clafses, when they asselnble at opposite ends of Council Field fo.r the second annual f.reshman- tiOphomor e Cane Rush and Tug- of-War. The occasion, which was inaugurated last year in an effort to renew class riva:J.ry and to strengthen class unity, is under the guidance of Wilfred H. Ketz, intramural and inter- class director. John Clowe, president of the Class of 1944, who is marshall- ing the yeat·Hng forces for the coming struggle, announced last night that the freshmen would meet at 1:30 behind Alumni Gymnasium, where each mem- ber of the class will receive an identification mark of some kind, and where final organiza- tion will be completed. Emile J. Brunet, Chairman of the Sophomore Discipline Com- mittee, stated last night that the spoils of victory which the freshmen will be seeking are the tiame as last year. Should the fre>hmen win, he said, the rule against freshmen trodding upon the lawns of the college will be automactially revoked. Maurice 'Ghevalier's \Love Parade\; J • D I and n, series_ of the films of t?e late un•o·r e egates Douglas Fa11·banks, Sr. It ts also · hoped that films such as \Grand • 1 Illusion\ \The Big Parade\ \Public ·Get (OU'nCI Posts Enemy\ so called \greatest of the I gangstet pictures\ and \Maedchen V • . G in Uniform.\ I acancleS m roup Showings on Mondays Filled by Selection The pictUH'\ will be shown on I Of Muthe.r and Marvin Monday evenings, in the Old Chapel. The dates set by the Moun- Robert W. Muther, Jr. and Rich- tebanks arP: December 2, December ard H. Marvin have been elected 16, January 13. January 27, Febru- by the Junior Class as their repre- nry 10, February 24, :\1at·ch 10, and sentatives on the Student Council April 14. Just in what order the in a vote held after the chapel pe- films will be shown has not yet im· on Friday morning, it was an- been derided, Marshall said. nounced today by Dickinson E. The Mountebanks' p t· e side n t Griffith, president of the Student pointed out fm ther the mar ked im- Council. provement that the motion picture Muther, who is a member of ·the prog1 am for the 1940-1941 season Delta Upsilon fraternity was select- will have in equipment; a Bell and ed as the fraternity representative Howell sound projector as well as filling the vacancy created by Rob- a new screen having been acquired. ert Baker. Baker, who is the presi- He also indicated, that, before final dent of the Junior Class at the ehoice of Hlms is actually made, the present time was automatically dmmatic group would welcome placed on the council when the comment upon the type of films executive committee of the Student that the campus would like to view. Council moved him from his for- The new policy of substantial re- mer position as vice-president of duction in tieason ticl,ets for .pa- the class to fill the vacancy created tt·ons of the Mountebanks was also by George Anderson. pointed out by MarshalL The group The other open position which hopes, b¥ this action, to attract new has been filled by Friday's vote is supporters from the Capitol District 1 that of the neutral representative to the Hanna Hall theatre. to the Student Council. Richard H. Rehearsals for the \Road to Marvin in a:ssuming his new posi- Rome\ Robert E. Sherwood's com- tion fills the place held by Roy edy that is to be the Mountebanks Webster, who immediately resigned first pt·esentation of the season, are from his post as neutral representa- t·apidly drawing to the production's I tive upon joining the Delta Phi fra- completion under the hand of Di- ternity. 1 ectut Bertram Hart ison. The play, Muther is a member of the var- will be presented during Interfra- 1 sity .trac~ team, getting his nume_r- ternity Weekend on Fnday eve- als rn hts freshman year. Marvm ning, November 15, and Saturday · is a member of the varsity skiing evening, November· 16, as well as [team and has received his letter in on Monday evening, November 18. that sport. - - -- ·--- ---- Union Scene During First World War Presented Active Military Picture By EVERETT H. McCARTY Today, as we hear of lotteries of names and conscription of Amer- i'ca's youth. we once again perceive the shadow of war looming on the horizon. We as students, wonder what will happen to UR as the com- plicatPd machinery of national dP- f ense is carefully prepared for use Then in the January 4, 1918, edi· tion of the Concordiensis we see the following restriction. \Engineer- ing students at Union College who are among the highest third in their class standing will be exempt from the draft.\ in any emergency which may arise The students who were left on the from the European situation. Some campus were also mnbilized in the cf us, to be sure, will undoubtedly Reserved Officers Training C?o~·ps bP culled to the colors in the fit st 1 and the ~tudents Army Trammg utdc'r fut selective service .but what Corps whtch were set up en the of the several hundred others at college grounds by the government. Union College? What will they do The curricula of the students was to serve their country should we vastly changed. A freshman engi- bccome enga\ed in wa.rfare with a neer studied Military Training, War foreign natio~? At the present time, Aims, Military French, English, our government has not decided Mathematics and Drawing. Chem- upon a definite course of action ists were to specialize on the chem- but let us look at the situation of istry of ammunition and poisonous the Union men of 19n-1918. gases; the physicists were to learn During the summer and fall of the workings of airplanes, submar- 1918, nearly one-fourth of the upper ines, and detecting devices. Classes classmen either volunteered or were were in a state of confusion as drafted. There were few exemptions government training officers were fi\Om the draft for college students attempting to produce trained sol- but even so most men of conscrip- diers from a group of \green\ coi- tion age volunteered. lege students. Not fly-by-night institutions are <V------ --··--·~---- --- Cam.pus Republicans a,nd Democrats Await Tonight's Election Returns campus political clubs. The present Republican and Democratic Clubs, the Landon and Roosevelt Clubs and the Hoople-for-Hap .pines s League of 1936 are but modern ver- sions of an old idea begun way back in 1896. Since that time, all but thr.ee pr;esidential elections have r01:1sed the students to voice their opinions (more or less violently) as to the virtues and vices of the can- didates. During this period, The Concordi- ensis has participated in six straw votes. Of these the Republicans have captured four and the Demo- crats have taken the other two. But in all but the elections of 1932 and 1936, when the campus went mis- takenly Republican, the man who took the straw votes also walked off with the election. Practically every type of political device has been used in these cam- paigns to sway the minds of the students. In 1928, the Hoover Club even persuaded President Charles Alexander Richmond to back their man with a speech. On the other hand, the opposing Democratic or- ganization, the Smith-for-President Club, not to .be outdone, drafted Secretary Charles N. Waldron as their leader. It was during this same campaign that the Smith-for-President Club was host to Franklin D. Roosevelt, then cand.idate for governor of New York State. A monster celebration and mass meeting was held for him. But of all the presidential elec- tion campaigns that of 1916 was ·by far the biggest for Union. Wilson and Hughes clubs were formed with each side having a me.m•ber- ship o.f nearly 100. Even The Con- cordy urged on the battle with edi· torials declaring, \Our children will find a whole chapter in their his- tory books devoted to these big years. You will be ashamed to re- member that you did not take part. Join some party.\ Both sides held torch light pa- rades and attended local political rallies en masse. Led by the col- lege band, the WHson Club marched from the campus to the Hudson Thea~re to attend one of these raBies. But the Hughes faction was not to let the matter pass so light- ly. One hundred followers of the G. 0. P. standard bearer made an attack on the line of march, but, after several re.pulses, they retreat- ed in defeat. But, taking all factors into con- 1940 Presidential Campaign Comes to End With Ultimate Predictions and Statements By Spokesmen of Two Major Political Clubs With the issuing of statements by both major parties con- cerned in the 1940 presidential race, last night, the Union College version of political campaigning carne to a close, awaiting now, only the fina:l tabulation of the country's votes and the proclamation of victory by the respective parties_ Emerson's Views On American Life Told By Wainger Professor of Eng I ish Discusses Famous Poet In Assembly Speech In summing up his feelings to- ' ward the vote to be cast tonight Clark Alberts, '44, publici·tY man- . ager of the Republican Club, stated ' that \we Republicans are very con- sideration, the students who organ- \A rna is a oet because he is i~ed the original political club on more sen~itive than other men, be- t e campus. had ~he cleverest and I cause he feels more deeply, more most pr~c~wal v1ew of them al~. sharply; and he expresses these They petrt10ned th~ sta~e Repubh- keener insights in works that flame can Club to pay therr railroad fares with meaning,\ it was declared to- so that they could go home and day by Bertram Wainger, profes- vote. sor of English during daily assem- Conflict Debated 'freshmanRecords' By Philomatheans Are Distributed bly. fident of a victory for our candi- date, Mr. Wendell L. Willkle. As far as individual sections of the country are concerned, we believe that New England will be solidly behind our man. New York State as it appears at the present time will show a very clo.se race and we think we have a Hf.ty-fifty chance to take the Empire State. New Jersey and Pennsylvania, hereto- fore strong Democratic states, may swing upon the Republican band- wagon in this present election. It is only natural to suppose, however, that the tremendously strong Dem- ocratic South will still remain be- hind the President. Should there be a split in the voting in the West and Mid-Western part of our coun- try Mr. Willkie will be the next President of the United States.\ Dr. Wainger, who spoke on \Emerson's View of American Life\ Distribute Literature went on to says that \There are For the past week the Willkie some poets who expre::s only them- Club has been distributing liter- selves, and are therefore interest- ature amongst the employees of the ing primarily as studies in person- General Electric company and has ality and style. Others seem to been asked to assist at .the election reach out and draw into themselves polls today. They also have partl- the world around them and then cipated in the rallies held down- express its innermost secrets', its , town ,in Schenectady during the basic assumptions, its essentia;] campaign as well as the final one faith for the information of all men held last night. Dr. Bennetton Talks of World Status; Hopes For Peace Are in Sight The Philomathean Society had as its guest faculty member at its meeting last night Dr. Norman A. Bennetton, Assistant Professor of French. He participated in a dis- cussion on \The Present World Situation\ in which he expressed the opinion that the ·possibility of Germany winning the war was very remote, and that American partici- pation was neither necessary nor desired by the British people . In discussing the situation today, Dr. Bennetton voiced the opinion that the present stalemating of the Nazi airforce and the prevention of actual invasion is a sign of British strength. He also contended: that the longer the war continues the greater the food problem in Ger- many, and consequently the loss of morale and strength. The failure to defeat Britain by Sept. 16th, as Hit- ler boasted, was a sign of possible loss of morale. The question of British public opinion was proposed by one of the students to whom Dr. Bennetton re- plied that the people were bitter to- ward Hitler and toward the British statesmen who betrayed her and maintained a policy of appease- ment, rather than toward the Ger- man people as a whole. The topic which also centered on our position in the .persent conflict, brought out a like opinion among the members. It was their belief that the danger of Hitler attacking the United States if he defeated the British was remote and probably it would be too difficult a task to undertake. ----0--- Union-Hamilton Game Broadcast to Alumni Plans to broadcast the Hamilton- Union football game, to be held on November 16, to the alumni of both schools residing in the metropolitan area are being fostered by a group of Hamilton graduates. If the plans succeed the men interested in hear- ing the description of the tradi- tional game will gather at the Hotel Pierre in New York City, Last year Robert Miner, '34 of Hamilton College announced the game to a similar gathering of alumni in the Alpha Delta Phi Club in the same city. President Dixon Ryan Fox has accepted the invitation of Hamilton College to dedicate their new Alum- ni Gymnasium. Davis, '41 Heads Staff Of Yearly Publication For Class of 1944 The \Freshman Record\ of the Class of 1944 made its appearance on the campus yesterday, as dis- tribution of copies to each of the 213 members of the class got un- der way at the Student Activities Gffice. Bound in the conventicmal black cover with gold lettering, the rec- ord contains pictures of each mem- ber of the class, his home address, nickname, the name of the school at which he prepared for col'lege, his activities there, and his col!ege address. The editor of this year's \Recorct\ is Arthur A. Davis III, '41, and a~ advisor, Frederic A. Wyatt. Wtl- liam R. Axford, Jr., '42, Philip J. Landry, '42, and Kurt A. Korkel, '42, are Davis' assistants. In .addition to a message to the freshmen from Pre~ident Dixon Ryan Fox in the front of the vol• ume, is the dedication which reads: \ . . to the 213 members of the Class of 1944 with the hope that will assist them in becoming ac- quainted with one another, help promote a class spirit, and serve as a record of their fir::t year at J Union.\ and all time. Such a poet was Discussing the cam·paign Robert Emerson. Killian, '42, President of the Demo- cratic Club said, \We have sought \in the years when Emerson was to wage a clean campaign on the delivering his message-say fr·om campus. We have not attacked 1835 to 1855-the United States was Willkie's record though we easily a land of opportunity, of individual- might have. Instead we have tried ism, and of optimism. to point to Roosevelt's magnificent \Today we are only too well eight year record in which he has aware that the conditions of life surmounted gigantic difficulties. ·in this country are radically chang- \The gospel of the Republican ed; the scale of activity is tre- Club has consisted of nothing but mendou~ly enlarged, interrelation- vindictive criticism of the New ships and dependencies are vital Deal and a pledge by the speakevs and endless, the population has be- to vote for Willkie. Nothing was come mixed and polyglot, and new said of how their candidate would problems have arisen that call for accomplish the millennium that he an ever great degree of govern- has promised. Nor did we hear how mental control. he would handle his party followers Al Ciampa Has New Son A masculine bundle of heaven was presented to Mr. and Mrs. Albert Ciampa this morning at 7:45 at the Bellevue Maternity HospitaL AI commented that \although he wasn't sure of its weight, it looks shifty and will probably make a star football player.\ who disagree with his stands on lacbor recognition, adequate relief and a whole host of New Deal measures he has endorsed. Nor has the campus Republican Club ex- plained away the difference of views on power that Mr_ Willkie and hi.s running mate hold. Vote of Confidence \We look for a surprisingly large victory by the President tonight representing an overwhelming vote of confidence by the nation.\ All students and faculty mem.bers no matter of what political faith, Williams Confidence Rally? have been invited to participate in the election night program of the Democratic Club. The club will set up an election returns headquarters tonight at the Beta Theta Pi House and a complete up to the minute picture of how the nation is going will be available at any time from eig;ht p. m. on. This photograph by Concordiensis staff photographer, Bob Alla;n, '43, (see letter on page two) takes in just about all of the fifty stu- dents who attended the confidence rally Friday night before the Wil•· Iiams game. Coach Nelson w. Nitchman Is addressing the assemb- la!;'e, if that is what it can be called, Robert Forrest, '42, will act as statistician for the group. A large blackboard, charts, and radios tuned to each major network will be em- ployed in an effort to present a graphic picture at the first glance. The service will be maintained to the small hours of the morning and will be available to any interested party. The results will be inter- preted, President Killian said. He also announced, that refreshments will be served. Killian thanked Dr. Fox in a let- ter yesterday for the aid and en- com•agement given them by the president in the name of the <:al- lege. The club has secured the use of college buildings during the past campaign. \Dr. Fox,\ the Demo- cratic Club president said, \has ad- vised us and given us ev:ery sort of help we could ask for despite the fact he is on the opposite side of the political fence.\

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVE1IBER 5, 1940 U:ourur Step Down, Amateur Songwriters! It Still Is A Long, Tough Grina~ II LETTERS TO THE EDITOR II .. - I ('aiHtl Po.fcl ParuJ,· !ssai'' - To the Editor: heal d ,J,at va1·iety is the spice L! You amateur songW·J·iters, watch-----~----~----- out! The wolves are out to fleece Last year at this time -the foot- life. Supposing one person pa.rtici- ''OU. As Dr. Burges Johnson can following •~ wilal the publishing ·ball team had won six of its eight pates in three or four ar:-tivitiel:l ' firm prvmi:;es to do: \We print and h during his stay in college an I earns well s·how any interested parties, IJUb:ish •·our song in lead sheet and the prospects of taking t e ' k . h D ']1'' · · bo\\US book publishers have flour- ' next two looked bJ·ight. .Student en- ~> e:y 111 eac. cne. 0 t ese em- ,., form rwords and melody). Apply h1·•·omr Sabb1tts suppose hat such ished s-inee the invention of the thusiasm ran high and the-re were · ' . . · , ' . for co.pyright in your name. Send a per\ro 1 1\ oomg to enH J !·a vmo- printing pre:;s. Dr. Johnwn make:; smatterin...-s of talk about an unde- ~ · · ,.., · · ' · . · ,., thP song to all of the leading Music f t cl \' I th <:<: or loll! l1eys exactly alike? a hobby of presPnting private ex- Publishers in the United State~. ea e · sC'ason. 'A'l t ·, th · . , ., 1 : P ose8 to his students. Now the field Thus fft'l' this season, ou-r team la 1 ~ . e use 111 pie,-'· .ng a Senior Board ,James E. Twining, Jr ............ , .............. , ... Editoi-in~Chief Laslmr Seh\Yartz ................................ Business :\ianager K.tpp.t Xn llou ... t.·--!-7.:.a l{ob!'rt S. Schulberg .............................. Associate Editor Paul \\'. Bet'l;:er, ..... , .... , ....................... Associate Editor Jolm D. Phillips ............... , ..... , ............... Sports Editor 1':--i t\il;--}11111 rltoti;-<1 1-'-;'ht John 1'. Lewis ..................................... Editor-at-Large ,J. Honald Haigh ..... , ........................ Circulation :\ianager ]-'lit Jl,-d.l Tl~t-La l! .. u ... t.• ·l-1::!11 REPRESe.N1\EO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING ElY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO ' BOSTON • L05 ANGELES ' SAN FRANCISCO Junior Board Armand l<'eigerrbaum Solomon Blechman Allen Olton Samuel Po1 tnoy Jonathan P<·al«on Sophomore Boa-rd Hobet·t Dukl', Robel't Bishop, Granger Tripp, Thomas O'Connor, Richard Watanabe. Arthur Cohen, Charles Chase, Everett .\ic- Catty, :'\t1nuan Fo}\, Robt·It Hnynel Hubert Allan. Photogr aphie Editor ~tanlt.'y Cirl'l'nstPlll Justin Pl~dstPin Is~ue Editor. Business Staff J<,seph Jaycox Hal old :\lt·SsE'n~er Assistant.- Tuf'~day. ;,\;ovem:ber 5, 1940 AN ELECTION DAY MESSAGE :\lyron :\1illi' David Rosenblum . Samut>l Portnoy Robel t Hayn£>t' Truthfully, <Ul mHlergmduate newspapet' cannot feel that it is its ctut~· to set forth advice to the voters ,,·ho g·o to the polls today to elect the Pre;,;ident of the Cnited Sta.tes for the next four years. Only a minority of its readers are of age to cast a ballot. It can, however, Lring a message with a poli- tical tinge to its entire reading public on this election day. Our message reads-lle aware of your government, be in- tet·ested in your government, ta.ke pmt ill your go\'ernment. Flaguwt patriotism, of late exhibited in numerous quasi- national songs, does not guaTantee the continuance of demo- cm.tic institutions. The realization, on the pa1·t of every citi- zen. ineluding- those who receive their diplomas \on the hill\ tha.t the govenmwnt of this country is in pm·t his own, will go a long wa~· towards proYiding this self-same guamntee. SUPPORT FOR THE TEAM On the first pag-e of toda.y's issue is a pathetic picture of a so-ealled confidence rally fm· the football team that was held on last Friday P\'ening. On this pa.ge is a letter which ex- pn•sse,; at !Pngth the :'l'nti.nwnb of one student on this suh- jt•ct. The Concol diensis is in full agreement with him. It i,- hard to ht•lil'Vt' tha.t a collq~·p such as l'nion, \\·hich has known but two undefeated football teams in t\\'enty-five years. \Yill not encom·age a team which has lost a;; many con- tests as it has won. This is a prevalent attitude at the mo- nwnt. Perhaps this sti~rnm will be erased in two weel{s when the classic Hamilton game is played in Schenectad~·. This erasure is up to the non-playing student body. The coaches and the player::; have continually upheld their end of the bargain. Their supplH'ters have not, \vhich, in the \Yards of one campus observer, is not something· to write home about. ON THE UNIFORM KEY Drifting to the \In the :\lail\ column in increasing num- ben; are letters from students attacking the uniform key polic~· of the Student Council. Two such letters are printed in today's issue. The Concordiensis takes this opportunity to point out to all such cmTespondents, who have rhetorically asked how its board memLers felt on the question, that from the birth of the uniform key idea, i•t has opposed the practice. Apparently, the Student Council did not feel that the ob- jections of The ~Concordiensis we1·e valid last Spring \vhen the motion appl'OYing unifmm keys \\.·as passed. Approximately, it did not feel that the objections of the other activities which also registered protests were valid. Perhaps it does now. The key system. as it existed in 1939, was not free from faults L~· anr means. A compromise between the old and the new would have been the sage move-thus it appears today. And thus it appears today that unless some compromise is quick!~· reached, the Student Council will have a healthy, little furor on its hands. \ -R. S. S. and to a minimum of two hundred e son w1th mo e tha ') h~ has widened, and perhaps Dr. El- has broken even in games won and' P : ... r . 0 ne ' Y no Orche,;tla Leaders and Radio :;ta- n1 · -~,. •vi · t he does 1f th r· 11 mE'r A. Tidma1sh can start show- lost. Several ·bad breaks in the .\·'' , '.'\ ? · \Y ' 1 e ·8' tions thlvU\\hout the cuuntrv, and · acUc a 1ke It would b<' cc ual to itw his pup-ils ·how to keep their \ J \ • t cr. which included in- \ \ ·• . . . . . - I . \' furnbh you with fifty copies. 'el mon ,.,a me, · ev 1 J f1 a t~rnity havi i ' '1' · • dollars in their own wa,llets. It aH The cost of this service io only jut ise inflictecJ on starting players, ., ,, , ,,' . . ng .. :·:', c~ca, ,tartPd when A S.C.A.P. and B . .\1.!. $ 2 0.\ did not help ou1 chances in the R. pled,e I .ns and fratermt, JJ!.'\'· ::;tartPd to battle ovt•r fees paid for P. r. anu Williams games. These 1 J:,,,Jt.V( that we sf.!ould li.(·<:·P ~~ tlw u 8 e of popu-lar music over the The circular goes on to \tate: three losses have had a startling tl e nld c•lstom of ~aVIn6 :n~tndua1 commercial radio. \This i:; a nt'w :Ot'rvice which is effect 011 the student body. Interest k?Y-'.,:·.ol' each actiVIty. Th1s 1s 1nore Until eight months ago, all radio being promoted to make it eaoy for has waned so far that the attitude dl~m•.JEd and mo.re worth} Ol an !!•- the amateur~ and give them an 0p- f t d t h b e of ~htutJOn hke Umon College. stations u;ed mu~ic that was li- partunit,- to prove their m••r,·c tv o many s u ens as , een on s· censed by the American Society of J \What the hell, the team isn't any mcerely, the music publishers. · d · Composers, Authors and Publishers good this ~·ear!\ This attltu e IS At•chy \A.S.C.A.P.). At that time, the \Once you have done that yom· apparently contagious if the turn- broadcasters banded together, de- l:lUccess i~ a>sured.\ out at the last football rally Fri- To the Edito·r: cided that the rates they were pay- But bring out the old salt shak- cay night was any indication of the I would like to take this occa- ing were too high and formed their er, and hark to wha.t Merritt E. kind of suppo·rt that the students ~ion to express. my opinion on the own company, Broadcast Music, In- Tompkins, president of B.M.I, are willing to give the team. I question of \Uniform Keys.\ First car purated 1 B.M. I. l, in order to wdtes in a letter to an associate Members of the squad relinquish 1 of all I am definitely not in favor make cheaper music available. A editor of The Concordiensi>: \Not five afternoons a week in hard, tir- of uniform lreys. It appears that lengthy, bitter ·battle has been in all s'l:lch com.panies are racketeers, ing pl'actice sessions in preparation several of the vaor-ious a:cUvities pl'Ogress since, with A.S.C.A.P. but most of them are. The type of f·or a body bruising game on Satur- which make the:=e annual awards thr·eat.ening to do wmething dis- editing they do is of the cheapeet day aftemoon. Things have come take a great amount of pride in asteruus evet·y uthe1 week, unleos and mu>t inexpert kind. A lend to a pretty pass when only fifty. of 1 their individual keys_. Eac.h. lrey the mdiu stations agre<> td the sheet from an amateur composer the remainin~ 720 :student~ thmk 1 stands for some defmrte act1nty. standmg fee scale. with harmonies indicated is all any enough of the1r college and rts foot- It seems to me that we are living B.M.l., on the other hand, has 1 :·ep~table publi:;her needs: They ~ll ball squad to give up one hour of· in an e-ra when people seem to take been tJ·ying to a>:;emble a. body of I :ndrcate ~hat they _can. be mftu.entml their time for a pep rally. I a partioular delight in changing new ,popular music, writtten by 111 securmg. pub!JCatwn, W~JCh, I ~his last rally ~as annou;tced in old establi~hed customs and ways non-A.S.C.A.P. composers, so that I a:;.;;ure you, IS not the caoe.' . da1ly ~:;sembly Fnday :nornmg and I of doing things. Thus we have been the society will find reasonable So step down, amateur song>vnl- a notJCc was placed 111 The Con- told that our national anthem needs competition staring it in the face. crs, and tear up the glowing cilcu- cordiensis that afternoon stating I to be rewritten and that Thanks- ThE'rcin lies the \fleece the college Iars. It's >till a long. tough grind, that \a ·confidence !ally for the I giving Day ohould be changed from boys\ ror, !01 that matter, anyone and the cost of thi::; advice b not team\ was to 'be held .. If the. de- 1 one date to sume better dater. :May who will be fleeced l angle. \only $20.'' plora:ble turnout on Fnday mght , I aslt what it is that seems to cause In the ma.in. tly-by-mght music ;JUb!ishers distribute advertising material which implies that they can take your lntle ditty and, in no time at all. have leading pub- lisher:; con:;idering it and top- notch bands playing it, all becaw;e the anti-A S.C.A.P. faction is very anxious to uncover new talent. CALENDAR Tomorrow was any indication of the amount 'I peopl-e to be so eager, so persistent of co~fid~nce that the student body in changing such trifling matters in can g1ve 1ts team, I, for one, would om· everyday life? Can they not be mighty ashamed of Union. : thinlt of any better ways in which 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly, \F1aternities.\ Speaker. Wm. R. Coates, '42, Memorial Chapel 3:30 p, m.· -Glee Club Rehearsal, Hanna Hall 5:00 p. m. -- Public Cla..<>s, Old Chapel Two weeks from Friday is the · to employ their minds and ener- night ·before the Hamilton game.~ gies? All of this is directly anaio- Theteam will need the support of gous to our present discussion of every Union College student. Let's unifo1·m keys. These movements a!! resolve here and now to set serve merely to stir up people and Speaking aside an hour or an hom· and a half bring about much unnecessarv dis- The Coneordien~is received pro- paganda to this effect recently. The 5:00 p. m.-:::vlake Up Tests. All registration for make u·p tests must be completed in .the Dean's of.fice. o.f that night to show the members cu:osion and discontent. · of t.he team and Nels that we are I take my stand here and now in behmd them all the way. saying that this whole discussion SFORZA SPEAKS TO!ViORROW Robert Allan, '43. is one which should. never have Count Carlo Sforza, visit-ing Car- negie Professo1 of International Relations will present the sixth of thP lchabod Spencer lectmes to- mmTow night at 8 o'clock in Old Chapel. The topic chosen by the former foreign minister to Italy will be \Culture and Freedom in Eu- rope. 7:00 p. m.-Bible Study Group. Home of Professor Warren C. Taylor, 38 Union Ave. . , come about. Why not leave what is To the Editor: I a.Jready in existence as it is? If -~--o---- ::liAKE-lJP TE~TS Registration for make-up tests to -be given on Monday, November 11 must be completed at the Office of the Dean befm e five o'clock, Wed- i nesday, November 6. Students must obtain at the Dean's Office a slip to be signed by the instructor giv- ing the course. return the slip to the office, and pay a registration fee of one dolla-r. C. F. GARIS, Dean -~~o---~ PYRAMID C'IXB TO MEET The Pyramid Club will hold an important meeting at 7 p. m. Thurs- day to discuss the club's program for Interfraternity week-end. Every 1 member who expects to go to the Gridiron Ball is askt'd to attend. 8:00 p. m.-Lecture. Count Car- los Sforza. \Culture and Free- dom in Europe\ Old Chapel Thm·sday 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly, \Whitman's View of American Life.\ Speaker, Professor Ber- tram ..\1. Wa'inger, Memorial .Chapel. 7:30 p. m.-Py.ramid Club Meet- ing, Smiman Hall. 8:00 p. m.--American Society of Civil Engineers, Old Chapel. 8:00 p. m.-Schenectady Floricul- ture Society, Room 205, Biol- ogy Labora.tory. 8:00 p. m. - Faculty Women's Club, Gym Class. Friday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Or- gan Recital. Dr. Elmer A. Tid- marsh. Memorial Chapel 3:00 p. m. Medical Aptitude Test. American Association of Colleges, Room 106 Civil Engi- neer.ing Building. . ~here. were abo~t fifty. of them, 1 fidential tone.Coaches usually have I standing huddled in front of their I some canned, inspirational chatte1· I college chapel, hands in the pockets. on tap for a pep rally. but you can't of drab reversibles, lips clinging tG [shout b1ave worcs to such a:n un- dl ooping cigarettes. They were I comfortably tiny group of listeners. waiting for a so-called \Confidence So nobody blamed him when he Rally\ to materialize. and they were 1 left the subject of tomorrow'·s game passing the time telling each other 1 to talk about what everybody was that the poo1 attendance was \dis- thinking about: of the \rally\, and gusting\ and \disgraceful\. what had made it fail. He didn't The cheer !eade 1 ·s led a few criticize. he didn't complain, he just 1 cheers, and that was a little better. acted pretty soJ·ry. He recalled a ~ The sound rebounded off the front few previous rallies that had been : o fthe chapel so that it sounded a!- 1 successful. made a few suggestions most as if there was a group of rt>- i for the next one. promised that his spectable size. But between cheers I team would do. its ·best, and wall{cd there was a pretty complete silence, away, alon.e. . and the fifty would go back to ask- When h1s ~,ppl~use d1ed out, no- ing each othe-r where the rest o.f ·body could k1d h1mself any longer. the school was. This wasn't a \Confidence Rally\ Somebody went over and blew the horns on a couple of parked cars. and that helped for a little while And someone 1·ang the chapel bells and someone else rode around in a car with a sear·chlight. Then about half of the college's small band marched up. playing with lots of forced enthusiasm. That made .the crowd a little big- ger, and people began to !rid them- selves that everything would turn out all right. Tl1ey we1e just about to fall in behind the band when a cheerleader shouted that their head coach was the1e to make ·a speech, and everybody tried to make the cheer sound lilre what he deserved. Upperclassmen could remember when on similar occasions that same head coach had had to shout through a megaphone to •be heard .by all. Now the group made a little circle of ashamed faces around him, and he talked in a low, almost con- this was a flop. Hard medicine to tal,e, knowing that their school hadn't turned out enough support- ers so that they could pretend to have a rally. The words, \There's plenty things wrong with this school\ stuck in their minds, and they couldn't like it. But they couldn't deny that this evidence of 'poor spirit proved the point. They couldn't point with pride to their rally, They couldn't brag a·bout their schoolmate's loyalty to their team. But it was still -their team and their school, and they de- cided to stick by it as best they could. So they C·hcered, and sang, and had a bonfire, and they per- suaded a few of their fellows to join them. When it was all over, they felt .better for having made their attempt. But it was still a disgusting nightmare, and they went home try- ing to forget it. . v\'ha~ exactly is the object in hav-: the idea of saving money is the 111g umform keys? What IS to be 1 reason behind this whole discus- gained ,by such a system? Would sian my reply is that we should the people advocating this utterly think of saving money in ::;ome useless system care to wear shoes other way. Cer·tainly not mak<>· of the exact same make and design keys aUke for every activity. for the rest of their lives? Would What about the person who en- they care to see the entire student, gages in more than one actiVJ<y? body wearing nothing but saddle ! Does anyone think that he will shoe~ every day of their college ca-[ take pride in having two or more reers? They apparently haven't keys exactly alike? Dick. Add Zest to Your Dai\y Life Chew Delicious DOUBLEMINT GUM Discover for yourself thi~ ~<: 6 Y c~y to fe~; bigger kick out of daily achVlhes: ew re re ing DOUBLEMINT GUM. W 11 You know how much fun it is to chhew .. e y' f h · g smoot spnng there's extra un c ev:m. f 'd licious, DOUBLEMINT GUM and en}oymg lots 0 e long-lasting flavor. h 1 And chewing this healthful treat da-1 e :ps relieve pent-up nervous tension. Al bJ:a~h digestion, too, and helps s':'eeten your and keep your teeth attractive. Treat yourself to healthful, refreshing DOUBLEMINT GUM every day· Buy several packages of DOUBlEMlNT GUM today U·l45 : .. _: D:u1 As ThE ning tati0r they the Jl the v setba• them the 2 appea ed th and ' by tl stren1 and l the E that Iiams Sa VI Willi~ Ephrr ing tl ond c men< ing Final ~ras V n.ier pass it six WilliE third tosse< in th be for• LeC' S Baler first shor.t bullin the ir man'::: Wil effect aerial imme deW and c ball o for 1 Ephrr fore plays went final!: guard to Bo Sav start and the l Guibe de \Vii a ·pas: HoldE carry yards tack!• Meeh Unior Sha the t Vann Willie the c of th Takir Meeh block Unior of :\!1 to De heat \\ het t a nak Willie Va1 with the \ attacl ace p nier's the ' the I drive, pafse Bob J touch tion t tacull pullec Me Led aerial Unior but c the 1 anott '\A.' all< waitiJ was terce] I

1- s- r- o- ts s- is If ld n- ·'> ill re :::.: THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1940 Page Three D:utchmen Drop Third Straight,. 21-6; As Willi.a.ms Power Proves Too Much Vannier on 42 Yard Jaunt Against Williams Varsity Harriers ~ Vannier Passes to Sherma·n for Only Garnet Tally; Holden, DeWindt, Spark Ephmen's Attack ~------------- By JACK PHILLIPS the 10 ya1·d line, where he lateraled The highly touted \iVilliams run- to Lee Sherman, Picking up Hil- ning attack lived up to all expec- lick for interference, Lee churned tation on Satu1•day afte1·noon as up the sideHne to the 45. Hemmed they plowed through the mud of in by two Williams men, he !at- . the Mont Pleasant Field to hand eralt>d to HUlick and. in the same the va.rsity football tea·m its thinl· motion threw one of the .pretties setback of the season, drop·ping blccl{S that we've seen .J·n a long them to a .500 ave.rage. De,;pitt• time on one of the pursuing Eph- the 21-6 score, from this corner it men. Billick reached the WiHiams appt>ared that the Dutchmen play- 2 yard line before one of .the Wil- ed their best game of the Ecason Iiams men nailed him from behind, and were in the end beaten only ending the game. by the superior Williams reserve strength. With a little more lucli and a wealth of ·reserves such as the Ephmen have, it it conceivable that Un·ion might have upset Wil- liams. SaWJ.·er kicked off to Holden of Williams to open the game. The Ephmen played cautiously, return- ing the bale to Union twice an sec- ond down punts, while the Du.tch- * * ·when asked about the outstand- ing player on the field we have to say either Herb Holden or deWindt of Williams. Captain Herguth in the line also played a bangup game for the Ephmen. DeE·pite the mud and water, Bannock certain had something \on the ball\ when it came to passing. X-Country Teams End Season Friday Varsity and Freshmen Runners Meet Favored Williams Harriers Here men opened up from the start, mix- * * The varsity and freshman cross ing pas> e~ ami !'unning plays. Co-Captain Jack Vannier, who country teams will finish their sea- Finally Union received the b!'~1l!k it carried the brunt of the Union pass- som on Fri'day afternoon when was waiting for as Co-Captain Van- ing and running attack, was in no they meet the Williams varsity and nier intercepted a Holden tossed way outshown by the Williams yearling runners on the Union pass on the Williams 45, returning luminaries. While Co-Captain Gui- course. The varsity me·et will start it six yar·ds. Two smashes. at the bert, Stew Goldblatt and Bob Baker at 4:30 p. m. and the freshmen Williams line proved futi·le and on did their share of carrying the fight wHl start at 5:00 p.m. third dawn Vannil'r faded and in the line. Both Baker and Gui- Coach Bill Ketz is looking for tossed a pa~o to wingback Norris bert wet·e in their pitching till stiff competition from both side~ in the flat. Norris going to the 1& the final minutes of the game when as both William!:' teams boast a before Holden dragged him down. exhaustion drove them to the show- pt·etty fair record. On paper the Le£> Shl'rman entl'red the game for ers. Ed Enstice, who didn't run his Williams varsity appears to have Balch at quarterback and on the usual twenty or thirty times, was an edge over the Ketzmen with first play Vanniet· hit him with a still in their blocking right and an impressive 15-40 victory over shor.t pass on the vVilliams, Lee left, and malting himself felt on the ::Y.Iidd·lebury runners where hulling his way over from there for the defense. Union edged out an 1816-36¥. vic- the initial score of the game. She!'- * * tory. Against R.P.I. the Williams man's try for point was wide. It looks like Nels has uncovered harriers came out on the sh01'! Williams Tallies another ace blocking back in Ken end 20-35 while the Dutchmen were Sharpe, sophomore quarterback, shoutout 15-40. And this weekend Williams. stung to action by the who was knocking the Williams Vermont out ran the Ephmen 20-35 effectiveness of the Dutchmen's lads loose from their shoes with while earlier in the season the Cata- aerial attack, took the kickoff and his hard blocking. Reminds us of mounts downed Ketz's runners immediately drove to a touchdown. Jake Amazon. 15-40. de Windt took the kickoff to his 3~ * * Ketz has indicated he will start and on ten plays later carr.ied the And where was the Union band? the same teams that ran against ball over. Paced by Holden who ran Swai-+hmol·e ·and Delhi's .thl's past f 16 10 d 9 d · th Sure they sneaked in during the c or • an yar gains, e Satu1·da\. Co-Capta1'ns Doc Mo'nes 1 d h · 14 h second half sunshine, after the J ~ Ephmen reac le t e Unwn e- Williams horn blowers came seven- and Don Collins will be leading the fore the quarter ended. In two . . ht . vat'si'ty harl'I'ers, and at the sam.e I H ld h d h 8 F b ty miles w1th no thoug of ram P ays 0 en reac e t e • or es h' Th d h 1 · time· running their last race while went to the 4 in two trys and ~~·a':n ~~~·. if ~u~~n~!n ~o i~.p their wearing the Garnet colors. Quinn, finally deWindt went over left Redd, Shepard, Snell and Davis will guard for the score. Halden passed Union-. * Wl'lliams- also start for the varsity. Dave Van to Bob Wallace for the extra point. Dyck and Ken Sutherland will lead 8awye1· kicked off to Williams to LE Guibert .............. Brothwell the freshman harriers, followed by start the .second half and Holden LT Slingerland ............ Oswald Adams, Brown, Sturges, Reed, Kil- and Forbes in two plays brought LG Baker ................. Detmer by, Moon and Sokolowski. the ball to the Union 29, where C Sawyer .................. Daly Guibert recovered a Forbes fumble. RG Goldblatt . . . . . . . . . . . . Herguth de Windt retaliated by intercepting RT Mara .................... Rice a pas~ ·in midfield from which poi.lt RE Marotta ............... Mucha Holden >parked a touchdown drive, QB Balch .................. Tower cart·ying 32 of the necessary ~o LH Vannier ............... Forbes yards, and finally going over lE'ft RH Norris ................ Holden tackle from< the 6 for the scnrt.. FE Enstice .............. de Windt F 0 R NOTICE Beat Swarthmore;~~~~~-,_,_ Yea.rl ings Win Maines I st for Garnet; VanDyck Leads Cubs As Delhi Bows, 22-23 Came the fourth quarter. Came the sunshine. Came the band! This corner sincerely hopes that the timid tooters of Charlie :Male didn't get their feet too wet by Satm·- day's dampness. The way they sneaked in, one by one, made it look as if they thought it was noise prevention week instead of Coach BiH Ketz's varsity har- . Union's second biggest football riers continued their improved run- game of the year. ning form. on Saturday as they It vv.a~ raining bucketsful when plodded over a heavy mud filled the Wi!liams band left Williams- cour~e to nose out the Swai'ihmore town Saturday morning, but the cross country team in a near photo boys from the Berkshire:; have· de- finish, 26-29. Moore of the Quaker veloped the somewhat odd custom All candidates for the varsity swimming team are asked to re- port for the firn regular practice at the swimming pool this Thurs- day between 3 and 6 p. m. Candi- dates for assistant managers are asked to report at the same time. team finished first in 28:16 with of wanting to blow their horns and Co-Captain Doc Main.es and Char- watch theii' team play football. Nat- lie Snell close on his heels to give urally, Union students don't like to the Dutchmen second and third watch a ball game unle~s their places in 28:33 and 28:35, I'espec- team is undefe.ated, and besides, tively. it lool,ed at 2 o'clock as if it might Co-Gaoptain Don Collins. fini~hed start l'aining again. in fourt·h place in 28:46, while Paul Maybe it was a good thing the Quinn and Bob Reed fini<hed Union band didn't show up, for eighth and ninth to give the Dutch· the Williams outfit is the best we've men the margin of victory. Bob heard at any Union game in three Shepard and Stan Davis also lin· years! They knew plenty more than The annual intramural football meet will be held at 12:45 p.m. this week Thursday and F.riday on Council Field. The events to be run each day ar.e: punting and passing for distance, kicking for accuracy, kicking field goals and place kick- ing for distance. ished• for Union. three tunes and played them too! Adequate pra0f of the fast im- * * * provement of the varsity runner~ It wa~ unfortunate that it had is the fact that against Vennont the first Dutchmen crossed the line to rain, for the team turned in its STATISTICS OF GAME u best game of the year, and the stu- in. 29:54 while· against Swarthmoi'cl dent body missed aut on more big on a muddy and slow com·~·e, the first runner finished in 28:33. <Continued on Page 4l w Freshmen Win First ----- First downs ............. . First downs rushing ..... . 5 0 20 The freshman cro<s· country team 17 hung up their initial win of the First downs passing . . . . . . 5 3 season on Saturday with a 22-33 victor·y over the· Delhi State S~hool runners. Previous to this the year- lings had been nosed out by the R.P.I. freshmen. Net yards gained ......... 106 322 79 Net yards gained .passing. 87 Net yards gained rushing. 19 243 Dave Van Dyck, Ken Sutherland Passes attempted ........ 19 17 and Herb Adams finished one, two, Passes completed ....... . Passes intercepted by ... . No. of punts ............ . 7 2 6 6 three for the freshmen. Van I~yck 6 breasted the tape in first place in 6 16:29, Sutherland in. 16:29 and Average distance of punts 37 Fumbles .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Ball lost fumbles . . . . . . . . 0 33 Adams in 16:59. McClentock and McMullen tied for fourth plar:e for 5 Delhi in 17:02 with Brown of Union 2 close on their heels in 17:09. HAVE YOU SEEN OUR WINDOWS? MALLORY \Brims-Up\ $4-$5 SAT. TILL 10 P. M. Then come in and try on a smooth fitting EDISON MALLORY or University Club EDISON HATS 309 STATE ST. ED I SONS Always Smart $1.95-$2.95 Sizes 6%-8 What Best Dressed Necks will wear ... T HE HANDSO~!EST collars you can wear are the collars on your Arrow Shirts -and the most remarkable Arrow collar is Arrow Dart. It stays neat and crisp all day without starch - and wears miraculously. Arrow Dart is $2.25. Dan A. Donahue 240-242 State Street Clothing Meehan converted, Williams 14, Union 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0. 0 0 6 0 0 0- 6 Arrow Sh.trts Union 6. Williams ........... 0 7 7 7-21 -==============================~~~;;;;;~;;~~~~~;~~;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;~ Meehan for 54 Yards Touchdowns-Sherman, deWindt, Sharpe took the kickoff and when Holden, Forbes. Points after touch·, the Vnion passing attack stalle•l, down- Holden <pass to Wallace), r;::::::::=:::::===~==::::=:=:=:=::::::::::;:::=:::=:::::::::::::=::=::::::::::::'!~:::::::4! 2 Doors f.rom Erie Vannier kicked to Shaun Meehan, Meehan <2l, placement. Williams backfield ace. who brought Officials-T. H. Starrier <Syra- the crowds to their feet in one cuse), referee; E. W. Dunn <Adams, of the nt·ettiest runs of the day. Mass.), umpire; P. P. Miller <Cor- Taking 'the ball on his goal line, nell), head linesman. ::Y.It>ehan, behinc! perfect downfield blocking, threaded his· way to the Union 46. Behind the line drive< of 11echvn and Holden, .a.nd a pas> . 1 to Dolan. the Ephmen turned the heat on and drove to the Union 2 \here Fotbe,; rounded left end on I a naked reverse. ::Y.Ieeha.n converted, William 21, Union 6. Vannil'r Pqualled Meehan's run 1 with a 42 yard ldclwff return to the Williams 47. Again the Union I attack failed as Bannock, Williams ace passer, intercepted two of Van- nier's tosses. Taking the ball an the \Villiams 31 midway through the last period, Bannock led a drive, hitting receivers with three pa;·ses good for 65 yards before Bob Molloy averted another Purple touchdown with a pass intercep- tion that resulted in the most spec- tacular play the Dutchmen have pulled this year. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUR MOTTO iiQuality - Service Satisfaction'' • 598 B'way- For Better Values Molloy, Sh4'rman and Hillick I Led by Marsh Hannock. their aerial artist, Williams was on the ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Union one yard line with time for ;:: but one play. Williams shifted to the left and Bannock faded for another of his inevitable passes. \Vallace cut through the end zone waiting for the pig<ldn, but Molloy was there before him for the in- terception. Bob broke through to DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM We Serve Beter Food for Better Health 118-120 JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall Interested in S chmectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street le<fk•eler 166 JAY STREET Watrh a11d ]t!<Welry Repairi11g a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS LANGE and RAPP PHARMACY \Service for the Sick\ Stop in After the Show Corner STATE and NOTi TERRACE Why Gordon was 1,499,673 to 8 In every campus poll the Arrow Gordon wins in a walk. -Six reasons why: I. Its basketweave fabric is sturdy and a bear for long wear. In white, colors, and fancy patterns. 2. Its Arrow collar is packed with tailoring perfection and authentically styled for college men. 3. Being Sanforized-Shrunk (its fabric shrinkage is less than I%). A new shirt free if one ever shrinks. 4. The Mitoga cut is shaped to fit the torso (broad shoulders- nar- row waist). 5. Its anchored buttons- take a 40 lb. pull. 6. Its birthright is Arrow- and that means in sim- ple language, smarter style, better M, and longer wear. Join the Arrow landslide for as little as $2. When it comes to .a popular vote it's always ARROW PUT A BIG X HERE i) ARROW GORDON ••• claims (and is) the D sturdiest and smartest oxford cloth shirt that money will buy, especially recom- mended for campus politicians. . • • , $2 ARROW TRUMP ••• boasts (and will prove . it) that its famed soft collar will outlast and outsmart any broadcloth shirt at $2 D AND HEBE ~ Both are Mitoga cut, Sanforized-Shrunk, (fabric shrinkage less than 1 '1r). Buy these handsome whites today and get in on the Arrow landslide. ARROfl/ SHIRTS

Page Fom THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1940 Erskine Rogers Noted Justice Died on Sunday Member Class of '00 Sat in Famous Murder Trial with Hiram Todd l\.eeler JJ\ins H\eeklr f'ootlwll (:onh'st • \VoPful Is the word for the progno:;ticator:; in The Con- cut uien:siti Fu<:>tball Contest for :-;,n·ember 2. The winner, l'har·les B. Ke<.>ler, '42, was able tu piclt only seven winners out of the possible ten. Three mem- b<•t·,; of Chi Psi fraternity, Tom . CullPn, '44, Ken Sharpe, '43, aHd Keith McCandles.><, '42, also pre- dict<>d st>\'en winner:; cmTectly 1 Excited Audience Hears Political Speeches Sunday James O'Brien 1 Charles I Grady Discuss F. D. R. ciuvn:rne \.....:Lurt Ju~lH.:e .Er::;h1ue C. I L .... ~ I~..._..._:.._~·.-:. t:I.tij ·~\d.;:, 1 '-'-\:i ... ~J I ~xcited me.rnbers at the ~mpi-re 1 Rog<'r·s, a mpmb<>r of thP l'lass of at tht• publlcalions office at an State Town Meeting audience near-~ 1900 and RPpub'liean nomine<> for I earlier time. Two free ducwts to ly came to blows yesterday as they . s~ate Atturnt>y-Gent•ral 111 ~~~:! ll!ell 'I i't vL[Ul \ Tlll:t.l.ll\ tlWtlll han. questioned discussion leader·s James I Sunday at the agt• of 62 at Glens Not onP participant guessed J. O'Brien of Fordham University· Falls. Jud~\ Ru;,;t•rs, whu wa_.; till' I that Hm \'ard and Princeton and Charles J. Grady, Amer·ican I Policies on Business 1 youn~Pst county jud~e in the Rtatt•; would batti<> to a tiP, and Coast Federation of Labor official of at th<> time of bis appointment by 1 Guard on·r We~leyan and Wes.t- Newark. N. J., in a forum which re-~ Guverncr \\'hitn::•n in 11116. was, <'Ill lle~t'l\'<' 8Ver Boston l.Jni- solved into an old-f!Ulhioned debate strick<•n Fl'i<lay and wa,; takPn I Vl'l'>'ity tup:>IPd all but a minute on \Has the Democratic Adminis- from his honll' in Htn'son Falls to minority. Arthur Pastore, Jr.. tration Hampered Legitimate Busi-l a Gil•ns Falls hospital. 1 '·H, twkl' winnPT 0f the football ness.\ I Born in Sandy Hill\. now Hud.;on 1 cont<>>t. wa.o the only man to Eastern division labor director of Falls. Septc>mb .. r 17, 187S. Justiel' piek both Coast Guard and the Republican National Commit- HogP1'S was t.hl' son of Gt•nNal \\'p, t.e1 n Res<•rve. tee, M-r. Grady launched an indict- JamPs Rogt•r,; and Eliznbl'th Cole- GeotgP \\'. Loomi::;, ··!3, re- ment that New Deal legislation had man. His <>dU<\aticn prior to his cPiV<'S th<' I!C'eklace of scallicms ca.used \business ·both Ja,rge and <>ntl'l'ing L'nion. was gaint·d in th•• fu 1 · tl1b. Wl'<'IL It was a tough small to lose fa•ith in their govern- public schools of Hudson Fal!s tight, but he finally emerged ment\ with the result that in the Jud\ e Rogt•r·< wa< \'t'l \' 111't iv•· in wH h t lll't'<' w innt'l ,;, past decade \the nation has lost in CONCORlHENSIS FOOTBALL CONTEST Union ....•.. , . Rochester Army ......... Brown Carnegie Tech .Pittsburgh Dartmouth .... Princeton .... . Lafayette ..... Rutgers ...... . Michigan ...... Minne.Eota Navy .......... Notre Dame ... Stanford ...... Washington ..• Texas A. & M ... So. Methodist .. Wesleyan ..... Williams ..... . Name .........................• Address ....................... . In the e\'cn that yuu wi;h to signify a tie, chec!t both teams. Checlt your selections and dt.u 1' olijJ in The Cun~ol Jicmb mailbox at the right of the back door of Silliman HaU by F-ri- day, November 8, at 6 p.m. The winning student Will re- ceive two tickets to Proctors Theatre. In case of a tie, the se- lections submitted first will be declared· winner. Members of the editorial staff of The Concordiensis and their families are ineligible for this contest. Williams President Sunday Chapel Speaker coll;g<>. num·b<'l'in:.: am:>ng- hi~ of- A Ganwt 110 ,..·gay to Ken wages not paid and income not pro- fie\<'' tha·t of Sttt<lPnt. :O.Tt'mh•'I of .t r... ::Jh,u pe. Ht• was the unly man uf duced an amount sufficient to pro- \Twenty million good losers, nnw d<>funct l'nion Atl,lt'!k Bo:ud.l the fuw l\ho tkd fo 1 first place vide everyone of the 27 million fam- whose candidate loses in Tuesday's At Alhrrn1· Law Sdt('o] whee<' lw tu JJick Cniun tu defeat Wil- iJips in America with a new $6,000 presidential election\ is the need of matl'iculatPd fnt· !.!l:t<'uatt• wn1k tht• home.\ He backed up the statement Amer·!··can tomo 1 • 1 ·ow was the sen·tl·- . liam~. tltu~ givin~ tlte other buys 1 promint•nt juri~t w:1~ J11f'<i<knt of \ little hl'a.d ,tart. with statistical quotations fr·om ment expressed by 'President James hi,; ···::.ss and won t 1~ .. !'at kt·l p1 ize AFL records. Phinney Baxter, of Williams Col- [,,· hi~h acatkmk .-tandin,:. Harking .back to the Hoover ad- lege during the regular Sunday Fir,.t Appointm•·nt in l!Hl!l ! I ministration, Dr. O'Brien, a mem- services in Memorial Chapel. H ts finn J k t ber of the Democratic National Dr. Baxter, who himself is a pulttl{'al appninL:cPnt I a C P 0 Committee, cit-ed examples to show member of the draft .board for wa~ ns attot nt'Y for thf' Yillngt· of Sandy Hlll. • ~ 1 H.tUH. l;nvt>t nut -~ .... ......... ....... ....... .... ~ that the New Deal had ·befriended 1 Northwestern Massachusetts, de- Hul.!IH'S r.an ···' 1 'P' Ho~!'l~ di.<- the business man and helped him c!ared that the younger gene1·ation tril't attcJ!l<'' ,,, '''·•shington Coun- 'ContinuPd from Pagp 3J to weather the depression while the can do more than any othe1· gtoup lY to ti:l 11 ~: ~\'\ ,·au~ed bv tlw th1 il~·\ than W<'l't' o~;e,·;d in the four Rt'publicans, under President Hoo- to bridge the gulf between the \bit- dc•ath of H<•u<. 1 r. i>a~eom · pr··:\·wus game~ com.b~ncod. ver, had -kept telling him that ter political factions\ and should , . . . , 1 • . :->onlP smt of sprrtt wa:< sadly \·pr·csperity is just around the cor- lead the way to the restoration of In l.llh, l.t \ ... ppo!llltl <l toUn- 11 l. · h t · l · h \ , . \\'h. ac ung lll 1 \ ••am\ p av 111 t e ner. national unity, without whose moral Glee Club Plans ·Daily Assembly Recital Nov. 8th Groups First Program Before Student Body I To Be English Music I The Umon College Glee Club wiH make its fit st appearance of the I vear 'before the student body at Daily Assembly on Friday, it was announced last night by Edmund Kelly, mana.ger of the g·roup. The entire group wiJ.I -partici-pate in a fifteen minute program tbat will feature English compo.silions. Four numbers have been selected by Dr. Elmer A. Tidmars;,l, direc- tor, of the singers, for .H'riday's presentation. The program will in- . elude: \The Vicar of Bray,\ Adam de Ia Hale's \Minstrel Song\ the traditional Scotch air \Loch Lo- mond\ and the \Cornish Fiddler's Song.\ Members of Club Th,e members or the Glee Club include: Edmund Kelly, manager, Kenneth MacKenzie and Paul Best, co-leaders, Jack Barton, George Coley, Lyall Dean, Thomas DePey- ste1', Thomas Dunn, John Grow, William Johnson, Baldw·in Lucl'e Robert Sah·Iberg, H. C. Smith, H R. Smith, Elwood Starn, James Stillman. Walte1' Thiessen, Dudley Holmes, Clarence Woodward, Albert Anderson, Franklin Atwater, Fred Brand, Robert Forrest, Judd Grey, Theodore Grey, Robert Hayner, Harold Joslin, Joseph Jaycox, Louis Loeb, Edward Miller, Paul Moran, William Motisher, Witt Raymond, Philip Westlake, and Stanley Hill. t} Jl!Ggt· b~ 1 ,,,,., \'\ 1 ltnuu' I \'•·r mont at!d H P. I <>arnE's parti- Immediately followine- the 20 min- force the ·ships, tanks and planes !Jlllll\ tht• \'aC:JilC\ t:lll.:t'<] by tlll' ~ ~ 1 ,•,;rg~atton of h~ ., , C H ,·ul:ll!y. po>.-ihly duP to lack of stu- ute.s allotted the spealteis to ex- will be comparatively useless in our Robert Ritchie, Howells Coffin. Pans. HP was c.,. . ':\~\. 1 ; 1 . . , t I dPnt .><UJ>port. but Saturday. playing press their opinions the audience national defense program to meet Moey Friedman, George Clarl,, Rob- ,, u ·' ntx ag,dtht gt Pat \dd~ thP lads really was allowed the remainder of the the challenge of barbarism assault- I ert Coggeshall, Eliot Hertzmarll:. legula 1 ek,-tion t.t.,: ' \ 1 '·-nan:<'d Wt'l'<' insnitrd. \\'P look for them I half hour broadcast time for asking ing democratic peoples. Amasa Howland, Robert Horst- tu uftiep a ntlnl 1 )1'l t,!· :i111l':O:. Tht• DPmoct at 1 • .<.slidl' of 19 ~~ to turn in a g<><HI account of them- of questions. Continuing the ques- \The challenge is individual,\ he mann, Peter Marshall, Abra.m Moly- dl.'featP<l his nu• : : 1 , r thP sta.tP selves in thPir· two remaining two tioning after conclusion of the continued \and it must be met by neaux, Glen Morris, Albert Rinaldi. ganw~. B<'tter not count any chicl{- broadcast, the listeners .became three steps--preparedness, trad1- Edward Schulze, Paul Schrod-t, Paul Attorncy-Gt'nt'I:d I .\ few days <'lls, though. RoehPster .is especially aroused and a verbal tilt between tion, and faith . .Since this cam- Jones, Alexander Arony, and John aftPl\ tl:t 1 l'lPctiun. i.t' \ .• t!\- appointPd bv Gov<·mm· :O.Iil!<·t 11 , a nwm.b<'l' of tough ~nd on,• nc·v~r knows about ~n ard~nt Democrat and a Rep~b- ?a!gn has !lroduced such .bitterness Bess. the Huu,on Rin·r ftp··ubtiP\ Di'· th~ hetght~ to wh1ch a Ham1Iton ltean. WRs p1·evented from becommg 1t rs essential that the younger gen- Ralph Beargeon, Conrad Bechard, . · 1 1 1 ~ \ . ;~ -f I team ean climb. But we look for physrcal only by the dignified inter- eralion help this. situation by em- R b t E . tnet. an< wrr~ ,. ••rt<'t Jli'P'I<.Pnt o h II' . t' f . . . o er rrcson, Geor,ge Fawcett, h . h 1 t . . . t \ boy, to ,;tart r·o mg agam. ven ron o Dr. Drxon Ryan Fox phas1zmg nation unity\ Ed d Fl' 1 Robert Fr·nJJ'cl•, t ts D( y a It~ nJ·ganlzatton nlPf't· . ... chairma ' I . .· · . 1 war tege, ,_ }, in g. Ht> was a n:t•mb< 1 nf tltl' con· • ·•· • . n_. . . n.concludmg his se~mon the Wr~-l Arthur LaRoche, John Lewis, Clair vrnticn c:tllct! to consiu•·r amend-! It lcmks :<u.-piciously as if the \NhJ!e m Schen~ctady the Umon llam s presJdent descrrbed the sen-[ Smith, Philip Thomson, Norman nwnts to th<' jtH!kiaty :tl til'!<' nf tlw H.P.l. <Toss country !Pam saba- C?ll~.ge .,Democratic club wa:s Dr. ousnes: ~f the thre~t .to ~emo.cracy Vivian, Merle Fogg, Austin White. st::1.tP constitution :t<!optPtl hv th .. • : a~Pd tlw \Villiams harriers a few 0 Brre 1 J.. hos~. The Roosev7It men a~? predrct~d that m facmg rt the Cha.rles ·Gould. Donald· Stevens, pPopiP in !'1 3 ;; · 1 !a~s ago just tn makP SUI'<' of sta)-l met the s~ea!,er at the statron and crtrzenry wrll need preparedness, John Douglas Robert Dake John Tht• mos; f;tmou\ \\\'' in which in)! und<'fPat<'d. The Engineers I escorted h1m to the Old Chapel. ~r~diti?n an~ faith, three character- Poole, Paul M~yers, Robert Z~ll and .Judgt' Hog<'r' tnnl; p:nt was t·ht• wlttpJwd tht> Purple, 25-30. at Troy, 1 . ----o rstlcs n~ w.~rch ~e felt the younger James Smith. Druel,man l11U'l'df't' <'a,;p a.t which must have had pl<>nty of h<'lp from· FRESHMAN NOTICE generat·ton rs gomg .to be well sup- Hiram C Todd, '9ti Speeial Df'puty a eouple cf \.Saturday drivers.\ ' On Tuesday, November 12, the plied. Atto1n<'y r:Pnt'IHI. wn~ a!~o pt·PsPnt. OnP driver ran down Tom Lena,' members of the freshman class will Todd. a mPmhPI' of th•' Board of tl11• \\'illiams captain, forcing him.i take a set of tests prepared ·b,. t·he TrustPf'>' of thr- collt-~P. was a. SPn- to bt't'ak h!s >tride and scraping New York State Departme~t of ior at l'nion thP Y\\~' thn.t Judge, hi' arm. '\nuther·. mi~hap occurred Education. All regularly scheduled Hot:t'l s <'ntt·l·t'd. near the fim,;h !me when a sup- i collegp appointments for freshmen Artiv<>ly idt'ntifi••d with lhP Sandy! PU>'Pd ardent R. P. I. fan driving an I for this day will be suspended. Hill Xational Ban!{ a~ a ctirPrtor ! ambulance. pulled to a tilop dHectly' Each freshman will report at Sa. m. trust offict't' a.nd couns<'l. Ju.'ticl' in ft·ont of B 1 ll Va~ Loon j:'st as he and 1:30 p.m. to the place assigned Hog<>r·s wn~ a :\1a~on. and a mPm- wa\ starting h1s final spnnt. to him for his freshman psycho- bet of Cal\·ary Commandet·y. * \' logical tests. The test periods will Kni~ht' TPmplar. and of the Chi This no droubt reminds Bill Ketz be three hours each. P:<i f1n.trrnity I of thP day his captain. Ed We!lf,. This announcement is made early 0 ran rnto a fire hydrant. allowing: so that each freshman will have L\b Obt . I V<'rmont tu clinch a on<> point vic-· ample time to make arrangements I rary a InS tory over Cnion in 1938. \'?ells. was to insure his a•ttendance. Numerous Additions 1·unning in a pack of runners and c. F. Garis, Dean didn't ~Pe the hydrant until the The library ha- obt.amed numer- man in front of him side,tepped it. ou~ additions in tht> la=--t two ·week::;, * * 1t wa~ announel'd y<'stet day by He!- Sam Hammerstrom and Augie PHONE 4-5614 ----a---- McFARLAND TO SPEAK ! r--------------------~j Dr. Ross A. McFarland of Har- 1 I t vard University will lecture on DOUW F. BEEKMAN tf \Mental Ef·fects of Flying at High I I t Altitudes\ in the Old Chapel at 1 1 . . t Union College Friday night at 8:30.: 1 Gasoline - Brake Servtce t -- '! U. S. Tires - Motor Tune-up I IDEAL BARBER SHOP Exides - Lubrication I 448 State Street .I I, 60 I UNION STREET I, -Our Service is Ideal -Just Try One Haircut I Open Until II P.M. I I t ' t 1~----------------------.J :;:mm:::mm::mmmm::m:mm:::::m::m:m::::mm;: The ELITE Outing Cl1:1b to Present 11 Ski America 2nd\ Film The Union CoUege Outing Club is co-operating wHh the Schenectacy Wintersport< Club in the presenta- tion of the film \Ski America 2ml' a:t the Central Park Junior High School tomorrow evening, Nove.m- ber 6, at 8 p. m. John Senn, coach of the ski team, praised the colored movie shown by Sidney N. Sure- cliff, who will lecture on skiing before the movies. The interesting continuity of the prcture captures the Jntere:st ef the non-skier yet carries enough ski technique to hold veteran downhiH sltiers breath'less, Senn said. The movie has been in constant demand and has been approved by such ski personalities as Roland Pal- mendo, preEident of the Amateur Ski Club of New York, Norma·1 A. Barnes, president of the Eacter :1 Slope Ski Club and \Wes\ Blal<e, fo1·mer Da1·tmouth winterspons captain. The movie features such ch:J.nt- pion skiers as· Dick Durrance, Ma- rion MeKean, Hannes Schroll, Friedl Pfieffer, Toni Matt, Hanes Schneidr, Hans Faulkner, Thor Torlund, Walter Pragner .and oth- ers. The technique of many of these slde1·s i~ analyzed by the sclow mo- tion camer·a. The lecturers masterly handling of the camera with a trul:,- artistic appreciation of winter scenery plus his ability to tell a connected story in pictures with plenty of human interest and good humor· makes this ski movie an outstanding out- door feature, Senn said. Tickets may be purchased from either John Senn or Tom Hannigan, '44 or· at the college book Etore. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper. One Step frorr State Streei BELLINGER PAINT co. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass, Brushes and Wallpaper 126 BROADWAY Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp .. m<'r W<'bb. thP eollel!'e librarian. Kluge, two membe1·s of last year's Tt: .. \\ addition\ includE' novels, team, turned up at the WilJ.iams plays, and non-tietwn. some of :~am£'. len.din~ ~upport to the belief whrch haH ju~t bt•<>n ret'ently pub-~ that football players regard the lishl'd. A book wrttten by \Villiam \VIlliams gam£> as one of the big- Cowlt•y, pt·f'~Hknt of Hamilton Col- gest, if nut the biggest, on che Everything Elecfric:al TAILOR SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. leg<', i> numberPd among the group. 1 schedule. Th<' l1~t includp,;: \l':<>w England: I liHlian Surnnwr.\ by Van Wyck Br·ookf: \\\'inter· TidP.'' bv Robert Nathan: \Father and Son,\ by I .Tame~ T. Fat rell: \Sullivan by Clyd\ Brion Davi,;; \You Can't Go Home A~am.'' by Thuma,; \\'olfe: I \As Lung a::; the Gras~ Shall Gro\v,'': bv Olin•r La !o'aJgP . . \Hool;~ That Chan;.:ed Our 1 :.\lind,;,\ by William Co>WlPy: ''The I La.bryinthinP \\'ay,;,\ by Gr·aham [ Green<'; \Geese in the Forum,\ by • LawrPncr E. \\'atldns: \Foundation I St <lll<'.\ by Le,..a,, \\'an <>n: and I \Lool{ Who's Talldng,\ by S. P.l P<'tf'lman. \I' I s .... L ' I ... t.·a onl ... !Jlllt. y (.:J\t·otge Sau-l ta~·ana: \Lif<' ant! Tinw~ of ArehiP; and :.\leh<'tabpl,\ by Don :.\!a1quis: 1 '·Thl· .:\Lxtutt.· a.:-- lk·full',·· OJ ;;uut- 1 N.-l'! ;\Iangham; \E .. \\i. !1 :\!<-,\ -by o,IJplt Sitwell: \Thtt'P Piay:-<,\ by \\'rlliam Sa roy an; \~I ,,.;a a ... Duroth<·a.\ by Si;.;riu L'nd\\; and \Th<> Bt idg<'.' by Etnt•ft p,, .1,•. UnquesHonably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 Tails • 24.50 Tuxedo • 22e50 RICHMAN BROS. co. 454 STATE ST. JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy Call Ball and Ball Will Call 516 Union Street Tuxedos for Rent Expert Tailoring !;:m::::::mm:m::mm::::::::::::::::m:mm:m:::m::::\:~ PHONE 6-3456 LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 345 Broadway Phones 4-3364, 4·3365 GAZETTE PRE§§ P:rinters 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR illnurnrntttt!ii!i J~ Se HANDELMAN QUALITY GROCERIES and MEATS Fresh Fruits and Vegetables Daily Fresh Butter and Eggs FREE DELIVERY Phone 6-6016 920 State St. Z.-5 Vol. $4 Ca1 lOt R T, c Inc lege that uted: T. H drive A cash on N Sixty· stu de amou $5 in cards ThE Scher Natio the J vario· cies' the c each to go card, is all• mitte An enter Boy's Octol paign dents Scho< Ass were frate1 C. St• and mate . On Cr-oss meml stafi'. four amou year lege $175, ing t case hast ing o rollm ThE territ tratio Travi Hislo: Biolo: Build Samu Build Civil Robel neeril GrovE Edwa Mr. Hous' brary ics a Even Hall, Rail Is PI A c fermi camp min 1 wou!C ing, 1 diS:!Ui past He call l house range gcthe pus a railro show A grour he su visit can Mech ware Scher Dela' Albar tral l the E the rc necta Unite bany

is c!y rt.' ng he ne nd al- a·1 :1 m- ng tic an hn at • • Rabbi Wise trnsts To Preach Sunday Railroad Club Planned By Leland Z-51 1 ============~====-====~--========--------- Vol. LXIV., No. 15 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1940 $444 P 1 ledged In Campus ~oliticians St:ess Unity CampusChestFund As !~~~·~!:m~n! Ca'!.!pazgn~~lo~~s __ 1 00 , s •11· 0 The electoral machinery of our 1 - • . . tl ' . ut libe.r~l democracy has ground _o~t a decr~Ion. ·Of course, every cttrzen Red Cross Drive dent. National security, peace at home, no foreign war, unstirtted help for business, reconciUation of both factions of labor, jobs for those who needed them, and ade- quate social safeguards- for those who labor.\ To Start Monday: Roll Call Workers Named should take this decision as final for four years and do his best to serve his country under it~not only by obeying the laws, but also in every other possible way. On the other hand. every citizen should Aldrich's Statement\ I Altitude Effects To Be Described By McFar,land Scientist Sponsored Jointly by' Sigma Xi And Phi Beta Kappa Incomplete returns from the Col work toward the change of laws ''The support and the encourage- lege Campus Chest Drive show which he thinks are bad for the ment given our efforts, on the Sponsored jointly by Phi Beta that the student body has contrib- country; that is a pm·t of democ- campus, in furthering the cause of Kappa and Sigma Xi chapters at uted $444.25 to five charities, Emlen racy, too. Only once, in 1860, did a Wendell L. Wlllkie will always be Union College, Dr. Ross A. McFa-r- T. Hutchins, '42, chairman of the minority fail to cooperate with the appreciated. We owe each, and land, of the research staff of the drive announced yesterday. majority after an election. One le~- every student volunteer a debt of Fatigue Laboratory of Harvard A total of $215.35 was paid in son was enough. gratitude .... In out· humble opin- University and an authority on the cash with the balance falling due I am reminded of Article 11 in ion, of course, the final outcome effects of high altitudes on airplane on November 15 and January 15. the \Statement of the Basic Ideals was most undesirable. We would pilots, will deliver a public lecture Sixty-three percent of the Union of Constitutional Democracy,\ much rather have seen Mr. Will- tonight in the old chapel at 8:30 students have already pledged dmwn up by the conference at kie elected. But, acknowledging one o'clock. His topic will ·be, \Menta-l amounts varying from 50 cents to Union College, July 6, 1940: of the fundamental principles of Effects of Flying at High Alti- $5 in the drive with 100 pledge \Decisions within a democracy Democracy-the rule of the major- tudes.\ Dr. McFalland became in- cards not turned in as yet. are made by majorities. Majorities ity~we now join this majority, cast terested in the effects of oxygen The Scfuenectady Boys' Club, the must, however, maintain self-re- aside the last traces of dissatisfac- want in high altitudes after the Schenectady Community Chest, the straint and show due respect for tion, and hope and pray that pros- conclusion of his academic career National Tuberculosis Association, the rights of minorities. A minority perity may once again grace our at Harvard University, where he re- the American Red Cross and the in turn while accepting the protec- land.\ ceived his Ph. D. in 1928, and at various emergency war relief agen- tion CJf the state must abide by rna- Johnson's Statement Trinity College, in Cambridge, Eng- cies will be the main benefactors of jority decisions until by peaceful The surest proof that our democ- land, where he served as a z esearch the drive. The charity to which per suas-ion these decisions may be racy works is the fact that we can fellow later in that same year. Car- each student wished his donation changed. The higher interest of get all stirred up over an election, rying out a series of experiments to go, as he expressed on his pledge both majority and minority in the fighting tooth and nail for our re- on the student -pilots in the R. A. F., card. will receive the money as it commonwealth imposes these re- spective candidates with even an he published his results in the is alloted by the Student Tax Com- ciprocal obligations. '.L'hus liberty, occasional blow below the belt, and \Archives of Psy-chology\ in 1932 mittee. order, and the opportunity for then the moment it is all over, set- and returned to America. An assembly program featuring progress are assured.\ tie down to every-day business as t Before I close I want to pay a Associated With Pan American en ertainment by the Schenectady though nothing had happened. The Boy's Club started the drive on tribute of appreciation and respect Latin-Americans and the totalitar- In 1935, Dr. McFarland had the October 22. Posters for the cam- to the undergraduate political or- ians find this very hard to under- opportunity to study the problems paign were furnished by art stu- ganizations at Union College during stand. In each of our election of acclimatization to high altitudes dents at Mont Pleasant High the late campaign, for the intelli- years many of them have been in the Chilean Andes as a member School. gent, energetic and wholly decent quite mre that the day after the of the International High Altitude Assisting Hutchins in the drive way in which they presented their decision our losers will attempt a Expedition. The studies made then were Wallace H. MacMillan, '43, respective causes. coup d'etat and march an army to comprised the most intensive and fraternity representative; William Killian's Statement seize the White House. Perhaps our comprehensive analysis of the vari- C. Stone, '42, natural representative \The results of the election show training in sports has something ous problems relating to this topic. and a soliciting staff of approxi- that the American people would not to do with our political behavior; At the end of his sojourn in the mately 25. men. be denied their choice. The presi- but whatever training makes it pos- mountains, he studied the effects of Red Cross Drive · den·t's victory was the will of the I sible, we know that the longer it rapid ascents by airplane on trans- people and of nobody e!Ee. lasts the surer we are that democ- Andean flights of the Pan American On Monday, the annual Red \The people voted the way they racy can be made to work effi-l Airways System. Cross drive will begin to enroll did because the.y realized that a ciently and to the satisfaction of Since that time, Dr. McFat·land members of the College faculty and m b d t d b t th ll I · staff. Memberships are given in co mon on . exis e e ween em us a-· . . . has been actively -associated with and the Pr.es-Jdent. A bond ~reated Two mtensely smcere ~mencan this airplane com an and durin ~:~unr~~P~he d~~~~~i~:tio~~ L~~~ by F~·an!IIIZ: ~· Roo.sevelt s un- ?'entlemen. have run for office; now the past five yea~s, bas s~rved a~ year the 150 members of the Col- swervmg bellef tn th~ tdeals of the If the wmner can pe.rsua~e the consultant in organizing its medical . common man and hts eff<>rt to do loser to use some of hts ektll and program throu ho t th t H FDR Wins; Flag Flies; Plan Or Coincidence? Milton W. Bishop, prominent American legionnaire of Elmira, N. Y., and fa-ther of Robert Bishop, '43, gave a six foot flag to the college for use on the Psi Upsilon flagpole this week. Arriving by mail Wednesday morning, the flag was broken out just before noon by Bishop. In a statement to the Concordiensis he said, \It is perhaps significant that the flag arrived on the day after election, for my father's American Legionistic viewpoint on display of the flag is based on a conviction that the pa- geantry of patriotism is neces- sary for the maintenance of democracy. Certainly every last drop of patriotism must be now expended in support of the Presidential choice of the ma- jority and his effort to keep American out of war unless at- tacked. \In offering to raise the flag each morning, I in· no way in- tend to abridge or supersede the rights to this pdvilege awarded for years to members of the Psi Upsilon fraternity. I intend to raise the flag only on those days when they do not deem it neces- sary to do so.\ Bonnet Concert Realized Profit Stillman Declines to Release Figures, Says Concert Was Success A financial statement of the Bon- net concet·t held in the Memorial Chapel on October 11 was released by James Stillman, '42, chairman of the concert committee of the glee club, today. Stillman declined to say exactly how much money the concert made, but instead stated the financial position of the con- cert. lege staff contributed a total of something for those who were in I ability in the service of the state ha s 1 t d fr ~t e sys em. ~ $175, with all but one group earn- need. i I think that thousands of us wh~ as:iste~ eci: or 1 !nizi~ur~~onsfl'a~t ing the 100'k poster. As was the \That w~ich they had asked fo.r . vote~. the Democratic ticket would- surgeon's ]a-bo;ator gat Tereastgure case last year, a Roll Call Worker has been gtven them by the Pres1- . be hrghly pleased. Is! d B . 11 y M' . d More Than Expected has been appointed for each build- an , rownsVI e, Iamr an ing on the campus to facilitate en- New York. It has been Dr. McFar- The Bonnet concert realized rollrnent of faculty members. Na·t·•onal Defense land's responsibiilty to revaluate the quite a bit more money than was The Roll Call Workers and their Study Urge of Dorm Mer. various tests of the medical exam- expected.\ Stillman also said that territories are as follows: Adminis- ination for pilots and to develop the pr·ofit would more than covet tration Building, Miss Frances D • • T • Thwarted by Fuse Box new tests. this years installment on the new Travis; Bailey Hall, Mr. Cadman ISCUSSIOn optc During the present year, Dr. Me- piano which the glee club bought. Hislop and Dr. Vernon A. O'Rourke,· The spectacle of so many Farland has ·been carr·yt'ng out an \Th h 1 U . e w o e concert was quite a Biology Hall, Dr. Ernest E. Dale; S ff d d mon studen-ts burning the mid- investigation relating to the prob- victory of the committee,\ the Building and Ground Staff, Mr. pa or an Bowman night oil was too much for the lems of selectt'on and trat'ni·n·g I'n h . 'd ' . d c airman sat , 'considermg the Samuel • H. Johnson; Chemistry Are T 0 Be Leaders at ten er sensibilities of the South civilian pilots. He has organized a short notice and a publicity cam- Building, Dr. Egbert K. Bacon; College and Oldgym Hall fuse new laboratory and research staff paign limited to two weeks. Within Civil Engineering Building, Mr. Town Meeting of Air box la::ot Monday and Tuefday at Harvard under the auspices of that time we were able to make all Robert L. Stanley; Electrical Engi- evening for without warning it the National Research Council and arrangements to insure a successful neering Building, Dr. Frederick W. blew out, leaving numerous gen- the Civil Aeronautics Authority. concert.\ The effects upon the country of tl · t t f St · Grover; Geo.!ogy Hall, Professor emen m a sa e o ygran ------------------------- tremendous national defense pro- d k Edward S. C. Smith·, Gymnasium, ar ness. gram will be taken up for discus- Th d · · t t' h Mr. Arthur C. Lawrence·, Hale e a mtnts ratOn as prom- sian in a succession of the Empire · d th t th t d t 'II House, Mrs. C\rus W. Briggs·, Li- - tse a e s u en s wr not , State Town Meetings held each · b k brary. Mr. Helmer L. Webb; Ph\s- agam e ept from their work ' Sunday afternoon in the Old Chapel b · ·1 d ics and Psychology Bui-lding, Dr. Y a srmr ar occurence an to Everett W: Thatcher; Washburn at 3 .p. m. prevent the tragedy from hap- Hall, Mrs. Helen E. Jenkins. President Dixon Ryan Fox, who pening again have taken the ----a---- Railroad System Club Is Planned by Leland A call to all those interested in forming a railroad fan club on -the campus has been issued by Benja- min T. Leland, '43. The club, which would not engage in model build- ing, would meet twice a month to dis:!uss every phase of modern and past railroading Leland said. He invited all those interested to call him at the Phi Sigma Kappa house. A meeting date will be ar- ranged and the group will get to- gether. Several people on the cam- pus already do have street car and railroad pictures, which they might show at the first meeting. A tentative program for the group was outline~;! by Leland when he suggested that -the poup might visit the local plant of the Ameri- can Locomotive Company, the Mechanicville shops of the Dela- ware and Hudson Railroad, the Schenectady round house of the Delaware and Hudson, t-he West· Albarty shops of the New Y<>rk Cen- tral and the Troy round house of the Boston and Maine. A trip over the remaining {!ar lines of the Sche- nectady Railway Company and the United Traction Company in Al- bany also might be taken. is also chairman of the town meet- overload off the lighting circuit ings, announced that on Sunday, by putting Oldgym and South November 10, the discussion will College on two se.par·ate lines be \Must our national defense pro- where as formerly only one ex- gram move inevitably toward a so- isted. cialized state?\ No more trouble is expected Discussion Leaders The discussion leaders will be W. Franklin Spofford, Professor of economics and business adminis- tration in Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and Dr. LeRoy J. Bow- until about January 20, 1941. Rabbi StephenS. Wise To Preach On Sunday man of New York City, sociologist 1 Rabbi Stephen S. Wise of the and field tiectetary for the League Free: Synagogue of New York City for· Industrial Democracy. will preach the sermon at the regu- The two discussion leaders will lar Sunday Chapel services at 11 explore the possibilities of the uni- a. m .. ~n the af~ernoon Dr. Elmer fication of industry~for the pur- A: Tidmarsh wtll present. a. pro- pose of efficient, low-cost produc- gz am o.f French organ mustc tn the tion of armaments~and its impli- Memonal Chapel at 4 p. m. cations for bringing about the so- Rabbi Wise is a well known cialized state of \production for Jewish leader. He was graduated use\; of course, they will also dis- from the College of the City of cuss how the \free enterprise sys- New York in 1887 and received his tern\ may be maintained in spite A.B. from Columbia in 1892 and his of the regimentation of industry Ph.D. in 1901. He has received for the defense program. honorary degrees from Temple, The pattern of the Empire State Syracuse, Ronins-, Bates, Oregon Town Meeting calls for eight min- and Roanoke. ute direct talks by the discussion He was spiritual leader of the leaders who then devote the bal- Madison Avenue Synagogue from ance of the hour to answering 1893 to 1900 and then was rabbi questions from the audience pres- . of the Beth Israel Congregation in ent in the Old Chapel. Station Portland, Oregon until 1906. He is WGY broadcasts the first half Rabbi of Free ·syna·gogue, New hour's discussion, 3:15 to 3:45. York city now. Professor Wold Called For Special Research In Navy Defense Program Professor Peter I. Wold has been0----~--------------­ called to national service as a civil-~ ian expert to carry on special re- search in the Bureau of Ordnance of the United States Navy, it was announced yesterday by President Fox. He will be absent from the campus from November· 15 until July 1. In a letter to the Concordiensis Dr. Fox stated that \Professor Wold's work will have a direct bearing on naval preparedness in our present emergency, and the col- lege gives him Godspeed, however much it will miss his services in the meantime.\ The following temporary appoint- ments have been made to carry on the administrative work which Pro- fessor Wold has been doing: Dr. David S. Morse will serve as A·cting Vice-Chairman of the Divi- sion of Science. Professor Vlad~rnir Rojansky will by the Acting Chairman of the field of Physics. Professor Charles B. Hurd will be Acting Chairman of the Committee on Graduate Studies. Professor Everett W. Thatcher will be Coordinator of the Civil Aeronautics Authority instruction. The teaching work in the Field of Physics will be rearranged among members of the staff, with the addition of Dr. Milton Slawsky, who will serve on temporary ap- pointment as Instructor in Physics for the next seven months begin- ning November 18. Dr. Slawsky holds the degrees of B. S. in Phys- ics from the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; M. S., from the California Institute of Technology; and Ph.D., from the University of Michigan where he has also doi1e some teac·h- ing. PRICE FIVE CENTS Football Rally, Broadcast Planned For Gridiron Ball Booth locations Drawn Today: Bids Available Until November 12 Plans are being made to include a football mlly dtlring the Grid- iron Ball's intermission and to broadcast the music of Jack Tea- garden over an N.B.C. red network through WGY as was done last year, Albert S. Callan Jr., chair- man of the Interfraternity Ball an- nounced today. Numbers which will ent!''' f aternities and the Pyramic! 'lt:L to booth positions were dz a n :-'. one today in the student act:vLies office. The exact position which the groups will occupy have not yet been announced because the places for the booths have yet to be se- lected. Every fraternity and the Pyramid Club had an equal chance as numbers were drawn from a hat after being thoroughly mixed. The group which drew number one h.a~ first choice in picking the po- sttlon of their booth at the Grid- iron Ball. Number two entitles the holder to second choice, number three to third choice and so on. Neutrals Named Neutrals were urged to ask for their bids early by the committee. Adam Ciesinski and Cecil Angell were named last week to distrib- ute bids to dorm residents, town men and the Pyramid Club. T.hey will accept the three dollars for a bid anytime from now until Thurs- day, November 12. Names will be e?tered on a role and on that day b1ds will be distributed to all those who have asked for them. The Pyramid Club will have a booth at the dance and all neu- trals unaffiliated with the club but who wish to participate in the booth are urged to see Solomon Blechman, '42, at once. The club expects to put into operation a plan much like the one used by last year's neutral group which sponsored a booth at the Junior Prom. Gordon Murphy, '41, head cheer- lea~er, announced a football rally durmg the intermission. In former years a few cheers were given for the team on the floor of the gym but no full sized rally was at- tempted. The plan, which has re- ceived the approval of AI Callan, is to hold the rally on the porch and steps of the gym. There will be no fire or tramping around because evening gowns might be soiled Murphy said. ' Instead the crowd will assemble as soon as possible on the porch and will be led in Union cheers by the regular cheerleaders. The co-captains will be introduced and AI Ciampa and Nels Nitchman will speak. Murphy predicted that this would be the most impressive Union rally yet and the first co-ed one. Patriotic Theine Callan indicated that the commit- tee hoped to extend its patriotic them\ to the outside of the gym, R~d. white and blue lights may be installed so as to play upon the front of the building. Efforts to have the music of Jack Teagarden broadcast over WGY and the N.B.C. red network are being made now. Last year the music of Woody Herman was broadcast from the Interfraternity ball. Information received from Tea- garden's headquarters indicate that he will be right at home at Union, Callan said. The orchestra leader is interested in the mechanics of steam engines. He has owned four Stanley Steamers, the latest dating back only as far as 1924, and still drives them. A year ago he failed to appear for a broadcast after a college dance and was finally lo- cated in a classroom. He had taken over a class in the engineering de- partment and was lecturing on steam engines. Students and pro- fessors alike were delighted al- though occasionally the faculty would get somewhat confused by his swing terminology. \It is too bad we have no Saturday classes that week-end,\ Callan remarked, \because I'm sure we could find a place for him in the engineering department. Say in 26 or 27.\

Pag(' Two iliourur FOL'\UED 1877 \ I Causa Pasa Parole .I ssai\ :.r~li1ucl~of th~e Associated C<:>llegit<ce l're•s Uilll LlbtriiJutur uf the Cot· h.g'Lltt' 1 JJgt•st. rph~t~ft'kial-ilt:\,·:-pa:pt:'r uf tht: Slllllt!Jl[S of L'lllUll College. 1 ~uiJII:;hed Tues- day and Fl'ILlays throughout the L'ollege year. E<iituriul !tuum>, Sllthtiall l!all, L:nitHI-=c 7 ·u\\l'lc\\'g,-c--::L\\'a\\l\\'uvuo. Telcphullc, Hl\hl·nn•tady 4-Ul3:J. 'i'ublimr.tlun lffi'll•e,- The Liazettc Pre,,;, 3H State St., Schenectady, :\. L, 'l't·lt•tlhllll~ ·1-4141 EIItere_d_ at Tlw ~ehen~etallY\Post Pffit:e~w s~ cca~~ )ltili--sTa-t~ :::3ull8c.l·TPtTuil priee 1 1 'ive l't'llt8 n. l'llPY; $3.00 a J t•ar; dt'lJvefl~li-ullywberc in the L'ruted States. Senior Board James E. Twining, Jr ............................... Edito1-in-Chief Clu P~i Ludgt:-1·t.i~:!7 Lasl•ar Schwartz ................................ Business Manager Kappa C\u Hutt>c-1-oo3l Ito bert ::l. Schulberg ............................ , .Associate Editor Phi S1g111a Lh.·lta Huu~~t.:-U7li.J Paul W. Becker ................................... Associate Editor John D. l'hillips ..................................... Sports .Editor P:::.i L'.p~iluu llutbe--t-~710 John J>. Lewis ..................................... Editor-at-Large :\l,~dd·lt ~t·1·t:h•11, :\nrt !1 l' 'llt'gt' ti-~l!lt ti ,J. Donald Haigh .............................. Circulation Manager Phi 1 lv1ta Tilt·! a -ll(IU:-oe i'-1:.! ll RlltPRI!:SENTBD POR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING IIY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers RePresentatm THE CONCO'RDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEl\IBER 8, 1940 Coates Praises · Greek Societies Value of Fraternities As Well as Problems Stressed in Chapel 1 Sforza Describes Eng:lish Culture It aJ.l started a couple of years ularly like some lousy o.alr tJ ee ago when Hal Wittner's ten-yea!- somewhere up-state, he hit it; and old plan for P new athletic field be- he was out for the season. Georgie gan to approximate reality. Larry Norris had a bum .Jeg, which some- Pellettier, as editor o.f the Co·n- how managed to get worse as the co1 dy, took up the cry, and ran pic- season p-rogressed. And Stewie Frankly asserting that as a fl 3 _: turcs of the sopping Held together Goldblatt's leg wouldn't stay well. ternitv mPn \I an1 he·re to praise with letters from completely dis- · Then came the climax. Dick ltaHan Count States Tha+ Freedom Is True Indicator of Culture J · Freedo-m is the true indicator of d h Th th G d fraternities, not to bury them,\ courage ccac es. · en, ' e ra - Balch, the s-park plug Nels had William R. Coates. '4~. lectured on ~ulture. Count Calla SfGrza, Car- ua.te CouncH. spiiHed by oldtime been using .for a quarterback, ruin- the Greek societies in Wednesday's negie visiting professor of interna- Union alumni, D. ·E Griffith, '02 ed first his nose, t-hen his hip a.nd chapel. Coates wamed his audi- tiona! rel..>tions at Union College. and C. N. Wa•ldmn, '06, launched a sta·rted watching games instead of ence at the sta1 t that he would told a large .audience gathered in campaign to finance a new field. play.ing in them. Jim BothweH had speak impartially with a decided old chapel Wednesday night. This And before anyone -!mew it, Union to quit, but that was going to be a!ll bias in favor of fraternities. was· the former Italian foreign min- CoHege had a new field. But there right because Nels had Bobby The value of a fraternity to a ister's sixth Wednesday night pub- was one catch. The field couldn't Davis. But Bobby's number came student was dE>scribed by the lie lecture in a series which wiU be be used until the fall of 1941. up soon, and a chipped cheek bone speaker as providing an opportun- continued through January 8 · That was the first handica.p. The put him ou-t of order. Pa.ul Mara I ity for self development \which is- Describing the cultural state in .Jloys ·came back this fall, not to; i·an his ncse int0 somebody's cleat incomparably beyond tho estima- England and showing the inilu- freshly seeded, soft a.nd downy ·so he wa.sn't in form. And that lit- tion of even those of us who live ences th::rt American literature has Alexander Field, but to a couple of tie sequence of events wasn't mak- in fmternities. It is the fraternity had on contemporary British wrH- very rough imitations. They had to ing anybody a·round this part of that presents to the student a ing, Count Sforza said, \The fact practice on stony, Mohawk Drama the country feel too good. group sufficiently small net only. that Prime Minister ChurchiH is F t· 1 · cde C 'I F' ld ith for the practice of fellowship, not one of the most powelful writers st~~~~v;i~~~s a~d ~~~~~ Co;: bG~les And of course, because of last only for the promotion of ideals, in present day England proves how mixed in with the bare hal'f-inch of year's record, every team Union but for the presenting of tasks in important the linlc is between topsoil. And then, every game was was scheduled to meet this fall was an area small enough to have care- thought and political freedom. In an away game. The trip to Mont laying for its hide. But that's the ful supervision.\ a supreme struggle for freedom and Pleasant was even worse than an way it's supposed to go.. Ed FHz ·Fmtt>rnit)· Assets independence, the English have overnight tlip to Vermont, and the hasn't seen it happen here im four- chosen as a symbol and as their field, while not impregnated with teen years. Pe1ha:ps it won't hap- The tangible assets of the Greek· leader one of their greatest writ- glass and !.ron, held water almost pen in another fourteen. But it's letter societies were divided into ero.\ toughe1· o~ t'he fe·llows who are out o I as well as did old Alexander Field. · \\ · · · · two classifications by Coates. Effect on Cultur<' And pla,dng llall at Mont Pleas- there trying like hell to win- it's I :Quantitative!'' the'\ have over J toughe1· e~ them th th M ' J ant seemed like an away .game to· \\ ·an on · e or- 1.000.000 membe1 s and own over a Going on to France, the visiting d · t b k h f' f the students, too. Many .of them ay molnmg quar er ac· s w o IF- 420 MACISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y, CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS AHOILII!I 1 SAN FftANCIICO ·------------ ·------- quarter of a million dollars worth· pro es.sor explained that the F1 ench ure Un!'on lost Gn Sa turd b a didn't even bother ·going up to the ' · ay · ec use of bonds, secm·ity and real estate. col'la·pse might have been foreseen the coach d'd •t 1 h t h g ame·, it was too far, Gr they ·1 n rnow w a e was Qualitatively frate1·nities have pro-. for a number of years since the doing 01 . ·because the f 11 1 I couldn't get a ride. The sph it • · e ows Pay- duced the majority of our business first places in F1 ench literature, ing d!'dn't seem to · d Junior Board Armand Feigenbaum Samuel Portnoy Solomon Blechman -------- Sophomore Boa·rd Hobert Dake, Robert Bishop, Granger Tripp, Thomas O'Connor, Richa1 d Watanabe. Arthur C.ohen, Everett !\.1cCarty, Robert seemed to be lacking. And those · give a amn or leaders and especiallv government during the past decade have been J·ust because we ta k I ! J two fall bugaboos, conscri-ption and s n · executives and legislatures, Coates held by re-actionary writers. \Great asserted. . authors like Gilde,\ he said, \were the presidential election (now over, Even though they haven't a de- li The extension of the fratemity excluded fr0m the French Academy thank God) • kept many minds of( cent field to play en even though ! : idea was offered as the best solu- supreme center of French litera- football. Ne!s hasn't the strength in reserves i tion tc. discovering a congenial stu- ture. ::;imply because t·hey spoke up This was a ·pretty tough start fer necessary to form a. crackerjack Hayne1·. Robert Allan, Photographic Editor Stanley Greenstein Ju,tin Perbtein Business Staff Joseph Jaycox Hal old ~l~sscnger Myron Mills David rr.oscnblum 1 dent group with which the indi- for freedom and democracy. There any football team. But it wasn't outfit, even though the backing that 1 vidual may identify him::;elf. Be- is a penalty for such mistakes.\ tough enough, With just about Union College students have been I sides offering a congenial student In discussing the totalitarian enough experienced men to form a giving their football team is negli- l group Coate::; said that he believed ~ountries of Germany and Italy, fair fir.st team, Nels began the sea- gib!e- the fellows W·ho make up 1 that a fraternity \'las one place Count Sforza showed that the )ears son with a certain amount of hope. that football team, trainer and I where the art of ]; eing a gentle- of dictatorship have had their ef- Then Moey Friedman dropped out; coaches as well, are fighting unbe- Iss uP Editor• .. , ... , , , .. , .. , , . , ........ , ... Soloman Bleckman Assistants man was taught. feet on these countries' culture. he wasn't going to be able to play lievable odds. But they are fight- Robert Hayner The fraternity problem was \How could it be otherwise? The Because Dick Griffith didn't partie- ing, and fighting hard. Armand Feigenbaum summarized as a \responsibility very word 'totalitarian state' ex- '--------------------------------1 which rests upon every fraternity duces any possibility of individual- i to bring to bear on all its mem- istic creative work. If those two 1 Friday, November 8, 1D·10 I bers all those influences of example great countries do not become flee -----==-=--=-~--==--~-==============~=-=-=-=-=-~======= and inspiration and environment again, they may end in the ceme- IT CAN BE DONE- . and tradition and even coercion, tery of history where the old orien- : to help each man, each member, tal nations were buried after they ; to develop to his maximum stature lost their f1 eedom.\ I in integrity and in knowledge and Approximately one year ago Hamilton College students 1 in intellectual power and in moral I 1 , prepared for their biggest fall week-end of the season, fea- 1 ccurage and in spiritual perception C 1 N E M A I I 1 and in social responsibility and in tured b~· the invasion of an undefeated Union College footbal.l health and good manners.\ I!============= team. The Continentals had no undefeated team to proudb match ag-ainst their traditional rivals. Hamilton's record, in fact. had been mediocre to poor with no \Little All-Ameri- can\ to lead an unbeatable aggregation on Saturday after- 7 CALENDAR Tonight p. m.-Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi dinner. Hale House. 5tate-\Wyoming\ Wallace Bee1y does a grand job playing Wallace Beery. As a t1·ain robber in Kansas. he I heads west ior more iertile rail-' roads. Dodgin-g a group of pursu- ing soldiers l:e meets a Confederate soldier who befriends him. They travel together for the soldier's home in Wyoming. IIOO!l. What happened at Clinton that week-end is now history Every fratemHy house on and off the campus proudly dis- played a bann€1'. Every Hamilton student cheered and shout- ed for their underdog football team. The Continentals made their visitors realize that Hamilton was out to win; that Hamilton was still fighting and that the traditional rivalr~ beg'un fifty years ago this week was still flourishing at Clin- ton despite all odds. On Satm·da,y aftemoon a courageous Buff and Blue squad had both Union and Hamilton support- ers stunned with its continuous threats and defensive play A powerful undefeated Gamet team managed to \\·in by six points, the only score of the afternoon. We repeat, that week-end is now history, but it is well \vorth recalling. ~ext \Veek Union will witness its biggest fall week-end, featured by the traditional battle between the Continentals and the Dutchmen on Saturday afternoon. l:nion no Ionge1 boasts an undefeated record; no longer has a \Little All- American\ to lead its team against its rival and no Ionge1 a.ppem·s to be an unbeatable aggregation. A year has made a great difference and conditions have changed. There is one condition which we sincerely hope has not changed and it will be up to us to prove that it has not. Hecent event~ point to a changing Dutchman spirit-a lack of enthusiasm and disgruntled attitudes as Union lost its first 1 game since 1938 to a strong Vermont team, almost complete absence of student support as the Garnet faced an undefeated 1 R. P. I. squad in Troy and a \Confidence Rally\ before the I Williams game which failed to attract a tenth of the student 1 body, led to this feeling. Can these mistakes be rectified? It takes a great deal to restore spirit which is once lost and that is why we hope it is not lost, but at most misplaced. It is up to us to show the Continentals that we too will back a mediocre team. We must show them that our support is as great for an oft-beaten team as for an unbeaten team. 1 I Now is the time to plan for Hamilton, our biggest of week- ends and a Union victory. Let's show Hamilton students that their campus is not the only one appropriately decorated for the annual Union-Hamilton game. We appeal to each frater- nity dorm and neutral group to display a large appropriately inscribed banner; to carry these banners to the game; to decorate our campus for Hamilton week-end in Schenectady as Hamilton decorates their campus for Union week-end in Clinton; and above all to show the spirit and enthusiasm we've \misplaced\. 8 p. m.-Dr. Ross A. McFarland, Asst. Professor of Industrial Research, Harvard Fatigue Labo1·at01y. SpeaJrer Phi Beta Kappa lecture. Tomorrow 10 a m .. --Daily Assembly. Speak- er, Prof. Harold W. Blodgett. \Why the American Literature of Cynicism?\. M em o ria 1 Chapel. 2 p. m.--Varsity Football-Union vs. Rochester at Rochester. 3:45 p. m -Varsity Cross Coun- try-Union vs. WiJliams at Scl:enectady. F1 eshman -Cross Country - Union vs. WiHiams at Schenec- tady. Sunday 11 a. m. - Sunday S e r v i c e , P1 e3cher, Rabbi Stephen S. Wise :1-.Iemorial Chapel. :J p. m Empire State Town Meeting 1-5 p. m.- -·Organ Recital. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. Monday ~.'!niH' Up Tests 7:3:J p. m --Philomathean ety, Sllllman Hall. Band Rehearsal, Gym Tuf>sda.:y 8 a. m. -- Freshman Tests Soci- 10 a. m.-Daily Assembly. Speak- e!, Jonathan Pearson, '42, \Re- porting\. Memorial Chapel. 1:30 ·p. m. - Record Concert, Memorial Chapel. F1·eshman Tests. 6:45 p. m.-·Schenectady County Alumni Association- Meeting, Hale House. Professor Vernon A. O'Rourke, \An Analysis of the Election Results.\ 7:45 p. m.-Classical Club Meet- ing-Home of Professor Kel- logg. Speaker, Count Carlo Sforza, \The Influence of Rome on Italy Today.\ 8:00 p. m. - Schenectady Sym- phony Orchestra, Memorial Chapel. 8:30 :p. m. - Chemical Society Meeting, Auditorium of Albany Law School. Speaker, Dr. Frederick Tisdall NOTICE Coach Nels Nitchman has an- nounced: that beginning Monday, When they 1 each the west. the ex- mldier i.s killed leaving two child- .·en- and no wife. Railroad robber 3eery decides to stick around and straighten things out. There is no ~oubt he is one of the fastest men Jn the draw on the screen this ;year. Puts last weeks Proctor's Gar~ 'The Westerner\ Coope1 to shame ; He is framed into capture for righteous murder, is freed by a I she1iff who is afraid Bad man 3eery is ste:lling his wo:nan -He' )eats the villoin to the draw holds J·ff the Indmns headed 'by Sitting· 3ull, t!ll the sclciers co:ne riding I JUt of the night, led by General, :::uster. I Thi.s p1 oduc~ion had all of the I .Vestern thrills !rom rustlers to' i\ar-happy Indians. i\long with true Western stlnd- 1: ds it also l:as the true Bee1y Jtnndards, ·he \\hcezes, grimaces, o his hea1 ts content for the !Ltle boy in the pictme <Bobs Watson ;, ho isn t whiney a~ usuall prcvin<; ~o everyone that he isn't as bad es' ever) 0:1~ Sa) s , ~arjorie Main, the sharp ton~ued. woman blacksmith and Leo Carillo, Seery's partner in crime, co the best job in supporting cast, both reveling in t·heir own t)pe of movie WOI'IL \Duley\. with Ann Southern, is mr prising. It is one of those cheaply made pictures that ho!d so much appeal for entertainment. Scatterbrain Southern does a fine job in mixing up her brother's life, her future father-in- Ia w's life, her future :husband's life. She is con- tinually surrounded ·by a Chine.se 1 child nickn:1med \Sneezy\ who she has adopted, a butler out on parole I and the greatly amazed people that are at her summer home for the weekend. Ja.bbering out of one pre- dicament into another probably of- fers more entertainment than Wy- oming to a great many in the audi- ence.-And she's pretty too ... J. H. V. A. MODERN DINER November 11, daily varsity baslcet- OPEN ALL NIGHT ball practice will be held in the ll \for that early or late snack\ gymnasium a,t 3 p.m. The drills will be under the supervision of Nitch- Cor. Albany & VE'eder Sch'dy man or Art Lawrence. 1 _· ---·-----------....! Some 21,500 cars and trucks are in regular day to day service with the Bell System. The great majority have bodies specially developed Ly telephone engi- neers. Many are equipped with power winches, air compressors and pole derricks. Each of the many types is designed to handle particular functions in the construction and maintenance of telephone plant. Planning, purchasing and operating the world's largest fleet of commercial motor vehicles is a big job in itself. Yet it is but part of the far bigger joh: providing the finest, fastest, friendliest service to the millions who daily use the telephone. Why not give the family a ring tonight? Rates to most points are lowest after 7 P. M. any night-a11d all day Sunday. [ c y s abo the Sch estE ern in, har est the Uni Du1 18 WO! tie poi: edg v an lost reo· elm on Riv a 1 to con 1ea1 Mi<i mo: the bee EOn De1 \\'hi lin. R ble1 in · was legE ing last birr. it i: wal \V8S foo1 eve terr line line G10 fas1 has to ~ ali an spil Riv e.::;s hav yea wat givE pay the theJ D up ·:t wee pro· and yon For Ga~ pas· at t San Gro thlE sea~ Dut e 1 and latt buc the pas: Ker T criJ: Ma: bad mal has to out in as for wh~ ablE injt; gan bloc N his and gan his an Dut pra· She has spa· ulal She sitic fl'OI bloc Joy sta1 will witl

tree and the had a.nd d of had a:U bone t lit- of last was the Fitz hap- H's out it's fiF- a use was or de- jack that been egli- up and nbe- THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1940 Page Three DUTCHMEN VS .. YElLOW JACKETS TOMORROW Close Tilt Seen With Rejeuvenated Y ellowjackets ln Last Road (ontest Swimmililg Candidates j REsuv.1.1s oF THE INTRAMURAL FOO'rBALL TOURNAMENT Report +o Wheatley Team Won Entr. Points Add. Points Total I Eleven men answered Coach Joe Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . *6 50.000 100.000 150.000 Wheatley's first call for candidates 1 v-\'\'.,.,..,.....,.,\'_\',.,.. ...... _...\\' INTRAMURAL$ NHchma.n Still Undecided About Starting Une~:~p: Possible Backfield Sha.keup Tor:norrow Theta Delta Chi t8 50.000 75.000 125 000, for the varsity swimming team and 1 We failed to mention in the last Chi Psi .......... , . . . . . . . :!:8 50.000 66;667 116.6671 met for their first worlwut of the i:;sue· u.f The Concordiensis, that Delta Upsi:Jon ....... _.... 6 50.000 50.000 100.000 yea1· in the swimming pool at 3:30 while the game with Will-iams was Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 50.000 41.667 91.667 p.m. on Thursday. Of these men, lost, something that mig·ht be even Striv-ing to keep their average~ Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . 5 50.000 41.667 91.667 five are holdovers from last year's more imnortant than a victory over above the .500 mark for the season, the varsity footb!!ill squad w-Hl leave· Schenectady this e¥ening for :Roch- ester where it wiH invade the Riv- ermen's lair tomorrow afternoon in what promises to be a close and hard fought battle, one of the clos- est in the 51-year-old series. Since. the first game played between Union and Rochester in 1889, the· Dutchmen have come out on top 18 times while the Rivermen have· lleadin' for Rochester Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . 4 50.000 33.333 83.333 varsity and four a1 e fres-hmen, the the Eph;-.1en was salvaged, namely Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 50.000 33.333 83.333 other two have ~·et to gain experi- an apparent retm·n to friend·ly re- Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 50.000 25.000 75.000 ence at Union. lations with Williams. One sign ±'hi Sigma Kappa 3 50 000 25.000 75.000 Wheatley is faced wi-th the loss 1 of t-h'is was the a-bsence of any rna- Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 50.000 16.667 66.667 due to graduation of Burt Brittin l jor penaltie~. despite the fact that Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 50.000 16.667 66.667 and Chuck Passe, his two free- the game wa;; hard fought. Sceond, ·Neutrals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 50.000 16.667 66.667 ,;tyle aces and the ·backbone of the w-as the appearance of \Villiams' .Jhi Sigma Delta . -.. . . . . . 2 50.000 16.667 66.6B7 team for the paot two years. How- President Baxter a-; the Sunday ?si Upsilon ... , . . . . . . . . . . 1 50 000 8.333 58.333 ever, with .the hold0Vers from last chapel ~peal,er. Third· was th~ fact .3igma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 50.000 8.333 58.333 year· and a good group of sopho- that a large Cl'uwd of Wi'!liam~ stu- Jo11th College . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 50.000 8.333 58.333 mores, he should be able to mould· dents, plus thei-r band Bhowed up won 14, and four have ended in a tie score in the 36 g!l.mes played. In . .Upha Delta Phi ... --.... 0 50.000 ,ooo 50.800 a good team. The men returning 1 fo-r the game, and last the gentle· .'T0rth College . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 50.000 .000 50.000 from la~t year's team are Gordie I menly conduct of both stud~nt Murphy, captain of the team who bodie:; at the g!lime and ·the feelm~ Winner of the tournament; t Winner of the losers bracket; t Winner of last year was a 440 yard and 220 I' of friendline>\ existing becw~\n points scored, Union also ho'lds an· edge of 541 to 269. While the Dutchmen may holcl an advantage in games won and· lost, and points scorect, the season record of the two teams points to a close contest tomorrow afternoon on the banks of the Genessee River. Union won three games in· a row at the start of the season to run her string of undefeated contests to thirteen in. a row, d·e- ieating Haverford, Hobart, and Middlebury before losing to Ver- mont, R.P.I., and Williams. On the other side, the Rivermen have been enjoying one of their best sea- >ons in years having conquered Dennison 1 Hamilton and Kenyon while losing to Amherst and Ober- lin. Rochester Strong RGche~ter this year has been blessed with a new coaching staff in the form of Dud DeGroot, who was imported from St. Jose Col- lege on the Pacific Coast after turn- ing in an undefeated team there last year. DeGroot brought with him Bill Hubbard, line coach, who it is rumored has molded a .potent wall of Rivermen. In turn DeGroot was blessed with one of the largest football tmnouts Rochester has ever had, among them a dozen let- termen, all of last year's starting lineup with the exception of two linemen. From these men, De- Gl oot . has welded a spirited and fast eleven, that in many positions has three good men, which points to a weal:th of reserve power. With a. line and bacl{field that weigh on an average of 180, and with a new spirit instilled by DeGroot, the Rivermen are no longer the \stlng- e.os Yellowjackets\ as they may have been dubbed the last few years. With a homecoming crowd watching them, they will be out to give the Dutchmen the needle, and pay back the seventy-two points the Dutchmen rang up against them the last two years. DeGroot keeps his starting line- up veiled until game time and has -:t to start the same team two weeks in a row. However, it is probable that he will have Secrest and C:armen or Young and Ken- yon at end, with Greenwald and Forsythe at tackle, Gelham and Gay \Viii probably be at the guard posts and Wobbecke or Humphrey at the pivot post. Bruckle, Stranges, Sandow' and Frawley might be De- Groats' starting backfield. The first thxee saw plenty of action last season, with Bruckle causing the Dutchmen plenty of trouble. In re- e_ ve the Rivermen have Staub and Kramer, both ace backs, the latter a fancy pas~er and line bucker. All of DeGroot's backs toss the ball around, getting off twenty passes in just the first haU of the Kenyon gaine. Injured Dutchmen The Dutchmen were further crippled this week when Paul Mara, senior tackle, suffered a bad cut on his nose in a scrim- mage session. However. Nitchman I has indicated that he may ·be able to play some on Saturday. With- out him. the Dutchmen would ·be in bad straits for reserve tackles as Doug Slingerland is inelig-ible for the trip. It is still uncertain · whether or not Dick Balch will be able to play on Saturday, due to injuries suffered in the Williams game, leaving Nels with only one blocking back, Lee Sherman. Nitchman is still undecided about his starting lineup for Saturday, and will probably not be sure until game time. He has been juggling his line and backfield all week in an attempt to add a punch to the Dutchmen's attack. During the practice sessions this week, Lee Sherman, 200 pound blocking back, has been running in the ful:lback spot along with Jack Vannier, reg- ular tailback. In the event that Sherman starts in the fullback po- sition, Bud Sawyer may be pulled from his center position to the blocking back post, with Bob Mol- loy going into the line. If Vannier starts at fullback, Sherry Hillick will start at the tailback spot, with possibly Sherman and Nor- the consolation bracket. yard star, Gus Morrison, back- them. We hope the hatchet Wll!C'h ·Dutchmen Rate fr0m Itha-ca are just seven points ahead of the second place team, E0ston College, in the race for the Lambert Txophy Award for the best Over Rochester -team in the East. Georgetown is the Due to its loss at the hands of third member ofthe East's foremcst Williams last weekend, the varsity clubs, while Fordham is fourth. ·- > \\' '\:\~'\\'\\\\'\\'-~%@ .,,,, ___ ,,,,,,._, _,,,,,,,,..--. ris rounding out the backfield. All of which leaves Nitchman with two or· three combinations to pick from. Lineup Uncertain The linemen who will probably see action against Rochester will be Jack Guibert and Diamond. Ma- rotta at end. Nitchman has been working with Gordie Semerad at end this week, and he with Bob Hallenbeck are in line for a start- ing post. The tackle spots are still wide open with Tiny Weintraub, Dutch Dorsman and Paul Mara fighting for a berth at the opening whistle. Weintraub has been play- ing better ball this week in prac- tice and may have earned a start- ing position. Bob Baker will prob- abl be in at his guard pos-ition while both Adam Ciesinski and Stew Goldblatt are fighting for the other position·. The center position is still in doubt and depends upon whether or not Sawyer starts at the blocking back position. If he doeE, Bob Molloy will be in the pivot position. Practice this week has been de- voted to perfecting a pass defense against the Rochester aerial circus, 1 as well as work on the blocking and , tackling of the team. ' cpp. cld' axmory open evenings Habeu::ashery \as you like it\ 704 ALBANY ST. football team has suffered a loss of 087 points in the Lam·bert Trophy rating, dropping from .825 to 8~8. It is interesting to note after 1ts th-ree early season victories the Dutchmen ranked .841, but as the !e-sttlt of its three successive losses has d-ropped .023 points. The Rivef·men of Rochester de- spite their show of power over the hapless Kenyon gridmen received no compensation at the hands of the Lambe1t Bl'Others, but instead dropped a point from .748 to .747, and dropped fl'Om 67th to 68th pla-ce as the Coast Guard Academy passed them by virtue of their up- set over Wesleyan. R. P. I. with their victory over Vermont found themselves in the same position, staying at the .843 spot. Williams with her victory over the Dutchmen jumped from .829 to .831, moving ahead of Vermont and Amherst. Due to her loss Union dropped be- hind Amherst, Providence and St. Anselm. With or without signa'ls from the bench, Cornell still continues to lead in the Lambert Trophy ratings, the Big Red team being rated 980 out of a possible LOCO. The bo:ys I GET YOUR ~R CUT The Remodelled SANIT ARV BARBER SHOP Nex:t to the Union Inn Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 DELIVERIES AND SHOE REPAIR SERVICE FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF OUR CUSTOMERS ---0--- Mahoney Appointed Swimming lnsfrt:~ctor Professor J. Harold Wittner. Di- rector of AthleticB, announced yes- terday that John Mahoney, Sche- nectady, has been appointed swim- ming instructor at Union College. He will work with the freshmen and upperclassmen who have not pa~,;ed their :;wimming te~t. Start- ing next Monday, Mahoney will be at .the pool every afternoon to give instruction for the next sixteen weeks·. ----0•--- VOLLEY BALL SCHEDULE Mon., Nov. 11-Kappa Alpha vs. Kappa Nu. Tues., Nov. 12-Beta Theta Pi vs. Alpha Deita Phi. Wed., Nov. 14-Sigma Phi vs. Phi Delta Theta. Fri., Nov. 15-Neutrals vs. Phi Gamma Delta. Products for Better Quality. • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. g ii llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ ! § It's the = =· :: KELLY FACTORY :: 1 for the Best = 1 - §! m Smart Clothes :: 1 = At Prices 51 GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Cor. Barrett Simply Phone 6-9419 sYou Can Afford to Pay§: I§ Featuring Authentically §! I§ Styled University Clothes §; JAMES RESTAURANT 426 STATE STREET We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests GAZETTE PRESS Printers _ KELLY -CLOTHES IN C. _ 621 River St., Troy _ §2 Bloclts Nortb of Hoosick St.=: ;rllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ stroker, AI Hendrickson, breast-: I has been buried, x·emains where it stro-ker, Ed Keers, free>tyler, and- 1 is, and is not dug up to b.:: 1 mr·ied Art Davis, br-eaststroker. The; I in ~umeone's back. so~h~more candida~es . are Bill'! Wrlkm, Len Benjamin, RogeL I It is not often that a football Green, and Ken Lynge. The other player takes time out to crltiC'!Ze men out for the team are Art La- (Cont-inued on Page 4 J Roche and Bill Massee. Wheatley is issuing another call; (JdfPf· 1 for candidates for the team. ne; (3 stated that there are plenty m01 e: good swimmers in college and he: · hopes that they wi-ll have enoug~ i · interest to report to him. He is:, especially in need of divers. I F 0 R The schedule this year opend New Records with J\·~~o-~~~-- ----o'----- ___ _ ______ _ WATCH AND JEWELRY ~EPAIRING - ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE 1\nd CENTER STS. ~···································~···········i • • • • a Come to PELOP'S 5 • • = NEW BAR and RESTAURANT : • • : Before and After the Football Game : • • • • • 43S State Street • • • B I $ FAMOUS FOR FINE FOODS 5 . ' . • • • ~•••••••••••••••••••••••n•••••••••••••••••••••••~ f / P!J. USE A drink has to be good to be enjoyed millions of times a day by peonle the world over in every walk of life. Coca-Cola is one of those good things whose quality stands out. You welcome its taste and its after··sense of refreshment. THAT REFRESHES Bottled under authority of The Corn-Cola Co. by SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, Inc. ----------------· ---- --·-

Page Four Wainger Speaks On Walt Whitman Poet's Views of Life Contrasted With Those Of R. W a,Jdo Emerson Walt Whitman's view of Ameri- can life wa:; discussed yestei·day in daily assembly by Bertram Wain- ger, prcfessor of English. The talk is the second given by Dr. Wainger this week, since he had prev10usly given a discussion of Emerson. \In di>ir-ussing Emerson\ Wainger said, \we discovered one conception of individualism; in discussing V\Thitman. we discover another con- ception. \Emetson's point of view id that individualism rpquires freedom ft om all external restraints, that it devc.>lop,; from within, the way a spider spms its web. Whitman's view. on the other hand, is that the individual grows and is molded under the impact of external forces, the way a statue is hammered out of the block of marble by the sculp- tor's chisel. \It is true.> that Whitman retains a streak ct' Emersonian Pgoism ... but. unlike Emerson, Whitman achieves self-pxprPssion, not by an inward searching but by a move· ment outward.\ Quoting Whitman's lines on thr American scene, he ~aid \ThP indi· vidualism of Walt Whitman even· tuates in a mystical patriotism, out uf which his views on Americar. life evolve.\ Descl'ibing Whitman's efforts to reconcile individualism and social contt a! he remarlted that the poet \feat ed the disintegrative effect at individuallsm more than the re- strictivt• effect of external control. Aftet· a discussion of Whitman's belief in economic security for all, Dr. \\'ainger closed with a quota- ticn from 'vVhitman and the state- ment that \Today we can repeat with \Vhitman \0 America. because you build for mankind I build fo1 you.' Today we can take a vow with Whitman that this great land shall forPvet· remain the preserve of freedom.\ ···-0---- I:\iSTALL:\IE:-.T TUITION. DORMITORY RENT and DINING HALL FEES The third inetallment of TUI- TION is d.ue and should be paid at the Comptroller's Office on Fri- day. November 15. No bills are is- sued and it is requested that all \tudents having payments due make them promptly. Any made after the above date will be sub- ject to the usual fine of late pay- ment. The second installment of DORM- ITORY RENT i~ due on the same date. -al~o ~econd quarter DIN- ING HALL fee. Bills have been issued covering these two pay- ments. HOURS OF COLLECTION OF FEES, NOVEMBER 15: 9:00 A. M. to 12:30 P. M. 1:00 P. M. to 4:45 P. M. PAYMENTS MADE AFTER THE ABOVE DATE ARE SUB- JECT TO THE USUAL CHARGE FOR LATE PAYMENTS. --~a---- SENIOR NOTICE The Graduate Record Examina- tions for seniors will be givPn on the mornings of Monday and Tues- day, December 16 and 17. All reg- ulal'iy scheduled college appoint- ments for seniors for these twc. mormngs w11l be su~pended. Aft- ernoon appointments will be met as scheduled. The examinations will begin at 8 a.m. Any student who has nut already indicated his choice of advanced examination will kindly do so at once at the Dean's office. C. F. GARIS. Dean. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper, One Step frorr State Streei Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUR MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction 11 • 598 B'way - For Better Values THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1940 ~~~~;[· 2~·~·o:·~~ . 11 . : ~'':;;:.;; .,~.,·~Biology Lobomto,y, 203 201 1 ~~~:~: .J Chemistry 2 ........... Dr. Stanford ....... Chemistry Laboratory, then when it is all over, don't hang·lAdditions to Library your voices in the closet on Satur- . . day afternoon when Hamilton Announced by Webb di·ops in for a game. . . Ed Fitz c;:a:<ms· t:Jat the cut . Among the new addJtlons to the Chemistry 3 ........... Dr. Stanford ....... Chemistry Laboratory, 201 2hemlstry 11 ........... Prof. Bacon ........ Chemistry Laboratory, 201 Chemi::try 12 ........... Prof. Schmidt ...... Chemistry Laboratory, 201 Chemistry 22 ........... Dr. Porter ......... Chemistry Laboratory, 201 Electrical Engineering Theory <Juniorl ...... P1·of. Haefner ...... Electrical Engineering, 14 English 10 ............. Prof. Blodgett ..... Bailey Hall, 302 French 2 ............... Prof. Bennetton .... Bailey Hall, 109 Mathematics 1 ......... Prof. Fox .......... Civil Engineering, 208 Mathematics 2 ......... Prof. Burkett ...... Civil Engineering, 208 Mathematics 11 ......... Prof. Fox .......... Civil Engineering, 208 Mathematics 11 ......... Prof. Morse ........ Civil Engineering, 208 (Continued from Page 3) \Moose\ Mara has· on his nose hbrary rrll7de re~ently are:. , th fir t . f its kind he has seen in C. P. Aiken, ConversatiOn ; M. his fellow students, and when he e. 5 0 . . . Anderson, \Eleven Verse Plays\; does there must be something rad- fourteen years---,and speakmg of R :i3 t \Fi ld f p d' \ R injuries, the team has move than B. t a e~.'s·. e .~. 0 W a·rRa JseB; t. icalb' wrong to prompt such action. a es a occo ene ' enough this vea·r to make up for \W'th' w· ' .m ' 1 , • : W R' The other dav we did happen to ' ~ mgs as ,.ag es ' the breaks it had last year, along ·B tt \H' h, s· \· 'w' B. ,' hear criticism from one of our th t r A d 1 t ear they could urne , 1g 1erra , . . m- football players, of the lack 0f ::tu- · a me. n · as Y nett \Litera1y Life and the He!tl dent ::upport to the team. We have afforded plenty 0 f them. Nels 't·h It\· R Ch b \I S has even forgotten the meaning of WFJ 'F 11 • Wa~ll · ruS, h R~w agree with him as has been shown ranee a · I e 1se the word \breaks\ when he has to ·A . ?\ ·J a' C . \A k M by previous articles on this page lib 1 S d t d gam. ; ·. . . ozzens, s e ~hthcmatics ~1 Prnf. :vrnr~P f'iYil EnginPPring. 208 Mathematics 22 ......... Pwf. Fox .......... Civil Engineering, 208 Social Studies 1 ....... Prof. Doty ......... Bailey Hail!, 210 .Soda! Studies 11 .. Pt of. \\'hitaker . . . . Bai!Py Hall, ~04 and on the ed·itorial pag~. The fel- :on·v~~t fu' · a:c t em era, 0 an ea Tomorrow\; A. D. Divine (Rame), lows on the team play for n•>thing m ml -season. \Wi·ne of Good Hope\; W. Fau1k- l more than the fun they get out All - Amencan Tom J:~armol 1 _'\ nel', \The Ham1et\; B. Fleming, of the game and one Bloclt \U\ favorite reading matter IS comic \To the Market Place\; :-.r. Hayes, I sweater. They certainly rleservc books - his ·favorite character, \Dildo Cav\; G. HousPh8lrl, \The more than this for theit· e.'fort~ Superman-Ali~American Ni·le Kin- Salvation ·of Pisco Gabar and and time, and this something nick was a Phi Bete at Iowa . .A:nd Other Stories\· R. Lardner \Rounc should be wholehearted support then there was the tired H~mi1ton Up\; N. S. Norway, \La~dfatl a from the fellows in the ::tands. We taclde w:ho had been takmg an Channel Story\; E. Paul, \May- feel that ~his support and appreC'ia- awful beating from the Roch~ster hem in B-flat\; G. E. Pend ray, t.ion of their effolts should be made lads for three and a half penods. \Men Mirrors, and Stars\; J. B. up to them in some manner. 'v\'h~· Finwlly DeGroot inserted the thi:rd Priestley, \Let the People Sing\; couldn't a bit of the formalit\' of tackle of the afternoon opp0s1te F. Prokosch, \Night o.f the Poor\; the daily chapel program be push- the Hamilton lad, who took one A. Roothaert. \Dutch Vet\; M. See- ed aside next Fr·iday morn,ing, and look at the m~sk his new o~pon- .Jey, \The Whispering Cup\; J. I. M. 'l. bit CJf good old Union spirit rP.· en.t was wearmg and excl~lm.ed, Stewart, \A Comedy of Terrors\; H. vived in the torm o: a complete stu- \My God! now they're brmgmg 0. Storm., \Count Ten\; Helen dent body raHy'? Have the team them in from Mars.\ And a little Todd, \A Man Named Grant\; P. there in a complete body and give, latter the Yellowjackets took quite G. Wodehouse, \Eggs Beans and them a few plaudits that they t·f'ally a while in their huddle and the Crumpets.\ Social Studies 23 ....... Prof. Doty ......... Bailey Hall, 210 Social Studies 38 ....... Prof. Whitaker ..... Bailey Hall, 204 .Social Studies 45 ....... Prof. Whitaker ..... Bailey Hall, 204 Spanish 1 .............. Prof. Bennetton .... Bailey Hall, 109 3:30-4:30 P. M. Biology 11 .............. Prof. Mavor ...... , . Biology Laboratory, 205 .::omparative Literature .. Prof. Coffin ........ Bailey Hall, 300F !llechanics ( Juniorl .... Prof. Sayre , ....... Civil Engineering, 107 .Social Studies 1 ....... Prof. Bronner ..... Bailey Hall, 201 3ocial Studies 21 ....... Prof. Langsam ..... Bailey Hall, 205 .3ocial Studies 32 ....... Prof. Bronner ..... Bailey Hall, 201 .Social Studies 33 ....... Prof. Bronner ..... Bailey Hall, 201 3ocial Studies 37 ....... Prof. Bennett ...... I!ailey Hall, 201 3ocial Studies 39 ....... Prof. Bennett ...... Bailey Hall, 201 ruesday, Nov!'mbPr 12, 1 ::{0-2:30 P. M. .!;nglish 25 ........... , .. Prof. Herrick ...... Bailey Hall, 306 ;;Tl.'DE;-ii'S Rl':rORTING FOR MAKE-UP TEST~ T•i.UST PRESENT SLIPS STAMPED 'WITH THE NAME OF THE DEAN Union's Democratic Club Stages Election Night Victory Party : -I An election night party, con· ~--------·---- ducted in the traditional Democra- tic style, was held by the Union College Democratic Club in the liv· ing room of the Beta Theta Pi house Tue.;day evening. Over 60 students, mcstly Democratic but now and again a group of Republi- cans, drifted in to hear the results, examine the charts and consume two quarter kegs of beer. Robert K. Killian, '42, president of the club, was in charge of the meeting which rapidly turned into a victory celebration as the re- turns poured in from all over the country. Dul'ing the early part of the evening he assured doubtful Democrats of the coming tremen- dous victory of the President. Lat- ter returns bore out his spoken convictions. I Two statisticians, Robert D. For- rest, '42, and Robe1·t Smolka, '44, kept count of the returns state by state. They marked charts which were available to the crowd w.hich had come for the returns and the until after one in the morning. By then the main crowd had left and \Boss\ Killian, who had called the election correctly, was left to wash glasses. \The party tonight topped ou1· campaign,\ Killian said. \We couldn't have found a better way to end our activities than by a Roosevelt victory celebl'ation.\ And the opinions of all who at- tended concurred. I WALKER'S PHARMACY Prescriptions - Drugs Chemicals 503 STATE ST. beer. Of special interest to most i~iii~~~~~~~~ii~~~i of the students were the New York State returns and the fact that the 1 President trailed Willkie only I slightly in upstate New York drew I much comment from the audience. I As the evening moved on and first the Kansas City Star and then the New York Times gave Roose-1 velt the election, the group became 1 more and more confident of a huge i victory. When Democratic chair- man Edward Flynn went on the radio to announce the Roosevelt victory, the club lined up and cheered. Photographers, waiting for that exact moment, took pic-~ tures of the victory outburst. The statistical service continued BELLINGER PAINT CO. Arthur Trigg, Prop. Paints, Oils, Varnishes, Glass, Brushes and Wallpaper 126 BROADWAY LOOK AT THIS FELLOWS! Automatic Radio Combination Only $79.95 at CLUETT & SONS 202 STATE ST. Near Mohawk Bank deserve. Get Nels, Hal Wittner, AI referee fina:!ly stepped in to break ---o--- Ciampa and Ed Fitz there, and Co- it up with the Etatement, \Hurry PLEDGE NO'riCE Captains Guibert and Vannie1· to up fellows, I'm due home in a few say a few words to the fellows. And minutes.\ J. D. P. ---- .---·----- cpp. cld armory open cvenin.gs Haberdashery \as you like it\ 704, ALBANY ST. Bellevue (i)uality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 BREAD- ROLLS- PASTRY UP TO DATE STYLES 75.00 up Collegiate Fit PATTON & HALL 245 State St. Phi Sigma h.apva announces the· pledging of Donald MiHer and George Glenn. UNION MEN Be completely well groomed Get a Haircut - ACME BARBER SHOP \\~here Sen·iC'e is a Pleasure · · 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 ~~~~~~~~~~~~========~ --1 Call Ball and Ball Will Call FOR THE GRIDIRON BALL To Rate with your Date You'll need a CORSAGE Get It at UNION'S Florist T. J. KING---Florist Overhead Crossing (State Street) PHONE 4-6444 AGENTS ON CAMPUS PHONE 6-3456 WALLY MacMILLAN JACK ENGLISH Phi Gamma Delta House--4-8323 MORE SMOKING PLEASURE IS COOLER, BETTER TASTE There are three touchdowns i~ every pack of Chesterfields for smokers like your· self. The first is a COOLER smoke •.• the second score for Chesterfield is BETTER TASTE • . . and the third and winning score for any smoker is Chesterfield's REAL MILDNESS. The reason Chesterfields satisfy is in their right combi· nation of the finest tobaccos grown • •• the perfect blend that you'll find in no other cigarette. They really Satisfy. MAKE YOUR NEXf PACK CHESTERFIELD Cnpvrlc:'ht 1940. l.tr.r.ET1 ~ \fvtM TonAccn Co. f~ C«H,1-Iut\ ~~ OlflfM1IE Z- Vol R woe the of 1 clos tra·t wa) the due M En~ Mo1 1eh, unt can \] one pia~ in tim indi tate to tior cel'l tha; Rot ten T by has era act< T tier bou of : era por anc bal' T as '43; elle Am to, Vat Pao dric Wo .l>la: Fit Sec Thi me~ Ch< Job Ma old Ra: G f. T tur· ·me· to me put rca It Fri Te< tro: of his out ins1 F of ists bar da;~­ meJ fan he a ity tro fer1 ·0 out fits fan tim mu con Goc Ger str: get nur Da,: Blu nat the 'I

M. R. R. ell Me ng, a ay- B g\; M. H. len P. the· Chess Club Ph ilomatheans To Compete To Meet In New York St. Rose Z-511 Vol. LXIV., No. 16 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1940 PRICE FIVE CENTS ~Road to Rome' I Produ(tion Nears l Completion Stage! ·~--~----~--~=-~~~c~-=~-=~===---=-====~~~-=-================~====~==~============--c==========================-==-~-=-=-~====- Tiebout, Alberts Have Presentation Leads; First Showing Friday I ! i I Rehearsals of Robert E. Sher- ! wood's \Road to Rome\ which is 1 the Mountebanks' first production ' of the year, are ra,pidly nearing a i' close under the diTection of Ber- I tram Harrison, well-known Broad- ' way director and also director of ! the Mohawk Drama Festival's pro- I ductions this past summer. Mr. Gordon Rust, instructor in 1 English and faculty advisor to the 1 Mountebanks, had charge of play : 1 ehearsals for the first few weeks 1 until Mr. Hart ison returned to the ca·mpus. \Road to Rome\ although not · one of She1·wood's best ltnown plays, h!ld a successful presentation in New York City. It is a very timely play, as Mr. Harrison has indicated, .because it deals with dic- tators and boasts several parallels to the present international situa- tion. The story of this play is con- cerned with the ma1 ch of the Cal- thaginian general Hanni•bal on Rome in the pre-Christian era, in- terspersed with modern dialogue. Boyt SPttings The settings havl:' been created by John Boyt, '42. In addition, he has designed the costumes of sev- eral of the more important char- acters. The leading parts in the produc- tion are being ta!{en by Ralph Tie- bout III, '43, who will play the part of Hannibal, the Carthaginian gen- eral, John C. Alberts, '44, who will portl'ay the character of Hasdrubel, and Viola Patterson as Hanni- bal's wife, Amytis. The complete cast of the play is as follows: Varius, George Lord. '43; Meta, Lea Einstein; Fabia, Ad- elle Fortin; Fabius, John Boyt; Amy tis, M1:s. James Patterson; Ca- t a, Bruce May, '43; Scipio, Jacob Van AeJr.am, '42; Drusus, Arthur Pastore, '44. Sertorius, Harold Hen- drickson '42; Tribullus, Robert D. Wortendyke, '43; Sergius, also by May; Corporal George Fawcett, '42; Fii st Guard, Arnold Rogers, '44; Second Gua1 d, William Massee, '43; Third Guard, Allan Korn, '44; Thot- mes, Stanley Green. '43; Carthalo, Charles .S. Colesano, '44; Hasdrubel, John C. Alberts, '44; Maharbel, Martin J. Caplan, '44; Mago, Har- old J. t.impert, '44; and Hannibal. Ralph Tiebout, '43. Foli·r Predict Winners, Split Concordy Prize Three football sages were stumped by the Union-Rochester upset in this week's Concordi- ensis football contest, while one prognosticato1 picked the Garnet defeat but was tackled by Minne- sota's remarkable triumph over the strong Michigan aggregation causing a very inconvenient four way tie. Seymour Pearl- man, Ken Sharpe and Bo.b Baker were the Union faithfuls who we1·e stopped by \alma mater\ de.feat while Bill WiHdn, who predicted a Union defeat but called a Michigan victol y. rounded out the foursome. Each will receive one ticket to Proc- tors Theatre. which, gentlemen, is an innovation. Our advice to one Co-captain Jack Vannier· is to keep running those kick-offs 'way bacl{ into our opposition territory and leave football contests to Union's arm chair philcsophet s. The Dutchman halfback managed to get the lowest score for this week with exactly two guesses right. At that rate he had· a rather• weak twenty percent per try average. Varsity Debaters To Meet St. Rose Philomathean Society To Discuss Western Hemisphere, Britain John Ruskowski, '41, manager of debate has announced the intercol- legiate debate schedule of the Phil- omathean society for the month of November. On the 18th of November the de- baters of St. Rose College of Albany will entertain the ·Philomatheans in a debate on the question of whether the United States should continue to give aid to Great Britain. Rus- kowski will act as chairman, and William Edwards, '41, Boyd Golder·, '41, and William Birdsall, '42, will participate in the discussion. The Philomathean Society will be hosts to the Skidmore debaters on tile 28th of November. The subject of the debate will be: \Should the nations of the Western Hemisphere unite to form an allianee or union as a protection against f01·eign aggression?'' The varsity debaters will travel to Keuka College for a debate on the 29th of November, on an, as yet, unannounced subjec-t. R. P. I. Students Get Invitations To Gridi,ron BaH Sale of Tickets Ends At I 0 Friday Evening; 1 Harry House Gets Post j In reciprocation for the cvurtesy I shown various members of the Union College student body by the Rensselaer Fratemity Council in 1 presenting them with free bich; to the Inte·rfraternity Ball held after the Union-R.P.I. football game, the Union Interfraternity Council will send free invitations to several! members of the R.P.I. student : body, it was announced today by I Albert S. Callan, Jr .. chairman of I the Ball Committee. Gustave Geib, I representative of the Troy college who spoke to the st~1dent body in chapel and who is a stat· halfback of the Engineers' eleven wiH be one of the student to receive a Union College bid. Foutball Bids One Dollar Those football ptayers who may want to go to the dance will be required to purchase a one-dollar bid instead of the usual free ad- mittance. They will be under the >ame restrictions placed upon the regular dance-goer:; as far as the time limit for purchasing of bids are concerned. All tickets may be bought up till 10 o'clock on Fri- day evening but the prices will lise one dollar alter Thursday evening. There will be no tickets sold at the door. Harry House has been appointed to serve on the ticket committee for the neutrals, Callan indicated. He will help Adam Ciesinski and Cecil Angell in seeing that all non- fraternity men who desire to go to the 1940 Union College Gridiron Ball. Pep RaUy Planned Plans for the pep rally to be held dlll'ing the in tel mission period a,re still being formed, announced Gordon Murphy, head cheerleader The dancers will gather on the gymnasium steps and cheer for a Union victory. The rally will close- ly resemble those usually given a Union team the evening before it meets a foe. This one will be dis- tinctive in that it will be blended with the voices of Union's femin- ine guests. Plans for the broadcast of the Teagarden program are still under way, according to the chairman of the committee Gridiron Ball Maestro Played Trombone for Seventeen Years Before Organizing Present Teagarden Orchestra This is a warning to all fu- 0---- ture .swing band leaders or instru- mentalists,. who feel that catering Gridiron Ball 'Brother Act' to the jitterbugs is a matter of merely \tooting your horn\ in the public e~·c for a few ~ern~> and thus 1 eaping the reputation cf a master. It took the maestrc·to be for the Fz·iday night ·Grid,ron Ball, Ja~k Teagarden., seventeen long :years of tromboning for the top orchestras of the country befm e he attained his present status as one of the outstanding masters of the s:ide instrument. Following i;le usual progression of most outstanding instrumental- ists Jack pla~·ed in mote local bands than he can remember'. One day while on one of these assign- ments he met -.-nngy l.eo.mnonc, the famous trumpet player, who after hearing Jack demonstrate his abil- ity advised him to pack up his trombone and go North to more fertile orchestra territory. ,on Wingy's advise Teagarden set out for the \Windy City\ and his CHARLIE and JAOI\: TEAGARDEN first \name\ position with the famous \Red\ Nichols, who at that time was ort the top 1ung of the away from the Middle \Vest and to· cerned including Teagarden himself musical ladder. Included in a group the \Capitol of the Music World\ he actually qualified for the position. consisting of mPn such as Benny New York City and an immediate In this capacity he was able to Goodman Pee Wee Russell and job with Ben Pollack. With yea.r s build up the hemendous popularity Gene Kr~pa the trombonist demon- of experience bt'hind him as well as 1 that enabled him to form his own strated his versatility on wax. To- an accumulatLm Df popular solo crganization. It was in 1939 that gether with Nichols he soloed such 1 records to support his 1·eputation the newly formed Teagarden or- numbers as \Dinah\, \On Revival Teagarden was not as yet ready to rhestr·a which included Jack's Day\ \The Sheilt\ \Basin StrPPt build a band of his own. brother Charlie Teagarden as a Blues\ and his present theme sig- Through some freak accident trumpeter, started one of the quick- nature \I've Got a Right to Sing Jaclt was a.:;l{ed to take the place lest rises known and mainly through the Blues\.' of an incapacitated vocalist, and to the seventeen year old reputation Teaga1·dens next destination was the amazement o! all :parties con- built up by Teal!arden ,himself. Class Contestants Set For Spelling Contest The final competition in the English department's annual Ca:mpus Decoration Award Offered To Bolster Lagging S:pirit at Union spelling 'bee will take ·place next M·any Students Turn .~, Dr. Fox Offers Cup· to Tuesday evening at 7:30 in the Old Chapel, Dr. George D. Kel- Out to Greet Squad Fraternity or Dorm log.g, Chail·man of the Field of 0 R s d Sh . B o· I Ancient Classics and Professor n . eturn atur ay I owmg est . lSp ay of Latin, who will act as chair- man of the match, has an- By GRANGER TR'lPP 1 A special priz: to be awa.rded nounced'. Following the same Union·~ student body awakened, to 'that .fratermty or dormlto;y procedure as last year, the con- its recently dormant school spirit. g·roup wh1ch presents ~he best dis- test will bring together two rep- Saturday night when more than· play. of house decoratwns for the resentatives of each of the ft esh- 120 of it~ members cheered and Hamilton football game was of- man English sections. Conduct- ~ang a welcome for their returning ~erect to. the student bod~ by Pres- ed along the same lines as the football squad turning an other- rd·ent Dixon Ryan Fox m an an- old-fashioned spelling bee, with wbe sad hon{ecoming into what nouncement made yesterday after- words being arranged in order seemed almost like a victmy cele-' noo~ .. Both .on and ~ff:-campus fra- of incr·easing difficulty for pt es- bration. : te1:ntt1es w1U be e~1g1ble for the entation to the contestants, the . . . . i pnze, Dr. Fox explamed. contest wHl enrich three of the \ c.r~LI.?Ized thorough!,\ m recent 1 The winner will be decided by a contestants, with the first prize spnit at~acks fat the lack board of three judges, including good for $10, the second for $5, of support gwen the team, stud7nts Frederick A. Wyatt '32, assistant the thit d for $2. Contestants will left. more u~ual Saturday mght secl'etary, Anthony J. Hoadley, '23, pas. ·times to smg under the leader- comptroller, and Daniel R. Weeks, be eliminated only after making h f Ed d J K II Gl C! b two en·ot·s .in spelling. If a word s lp 0 ' war · e y, . ee u '28, assistant professor of Eng- is misspelled, it is cast aside and co-leader, and cheer wtth Head !ish. The judges will probably make another word is put to the next Cheer-leader Gordon A. Murphy. their decision on Saturday morn- participant. The crowd collected at the New ing, and the prize will be awarded 1----------------------------·· York Central station at about 11:30 during the half-time of the Ham- Dr. Fox Delivers Dedication Speech Emphasizes Financial Needs in Ceremonies At Hamiiton College Unless increased private philan- thropy comes to the aid of finan- cially ·harrassed, privately owned colleges, these colleges may swap their· independence for federal money and control, President Dixon Ryan Fox declared Saturday. Speaking nt the formal dedication of Hamilton college's new $400,000 gymnasium, gift of alumni and fl'iends of the college, President Fox pleaded for support of the \in- dependent colleges as symbols of the fz ee citizen, free to differ in his own reasonable way fr·om norms set down by the majority.\ After citing competition from state and federal supported institu- tions and low interest rates on en- dowment as threats to the finan- cial stability of privately endowed colleges, President Fox asserted that \the will to support these in- stitutions is strong and eager\ but questioned whether or not \under the conditions outlined the means will be sufficient. Education a Credit Continuing, ne said: \If capital- ism, even under strain, leaves edu- cation in the lurch, it loses one of its credits and increases its own dangPr. The threat for the rich is that the whole edifice of capitalism may be destroyed :by taxation through lack of respect for the works of capitalism. Stt a in or no strain, capitalism is not at pl'esent giving enough to sustain that re- spect so far as this one criterion is concerned.\ .RpPFildng of thP peril of fedt>ral control on the heels of federal sub- sidization ,President Fox asserted; \It is fair to suppose that under American conditions, he who pays the fiddler will call the tune. What would come fr·om substantial fed- eral aid to independPnt colleges, would be diminished independence. Federal aid means a measure of federal control, and that means standardization. Standardization would probably mean at least the reduction of a number of small col- leges by enfot·ced amalgamation.\ - . ----- 0-- ---- Band Entertains P.N.A. For Polish Relief Fund and waited until 11:55, when the ilton game. \Boston Express\ brought the van- The prize will be similar to the quished heroes home from a dis- Cowley Cup, offered at Hamilton heartening defeat. College by President William H. The band, which had come in Cowley, fot· the best banner or for its share of criticism when it other victory \propaganda\ dis- failed te arrive at the Williams played for the Union-Hamilton game until after the second half, game when it is played at Clinton. was hurriedly collected from the surrounding countryside. Cheers and songs re-echoed throughout the station as impatient students expressed vocally the fact that if they had been lax in wishing their team on to victol'y, they were go- ing to be quick to cheer their ef- forts in defe.at. Nitchman Cheered The members of the squad, ex- pecting to ret urn to a painfully quiet Union College, fit·st became aware of the greeting they were to receive when they heard the band music as the train pulled into Schenectady. After Nels Nitchman, AI Ciampa, Ed Fitz and others had re('eived a round of c·heers, Nitchman turned to the crowd to return their .greet- ing for his squad. Union had re- ceived more than its share of bad breaks, he said, but the team would be in there determined to win against Hamilton in the last game of the season. Contacted Sunday night, Nels told a reporter that he felt the ovation the team received, \in spite of the licking they took, was a fine thing for the· fellows mo- rale.\ He added that he thought the gesture was \a swell thing for the feHows to do for their squad.\ The rally grew almost spontane- ously after the news of the out- come of the game had drifted in fmm Rochester. The plans for greeting \Union's victorious foot- hall team.\ announced Saturday morning in Daily Assemoly, were a little out of date, 'but a group of etudents got together and called fraternity houses and dormiories, spreading the word that the rally would take place as planned. It wasn't a situation in which a convenient time could be set, or one in which a lot of publicity could be ananged. The rally was probably the least organized in Union's history. ---0--- Wise Discusses 'Caring' Before Large Audience Originality Desirt>d The decision of the judges will be 'ba::oed on the originality and effectiveness of the decoration. The award of this prize repre- sents another in a eeries of cam- pus moves• designed to heighten school spirit and back up team morale for the final game of the season. The fraternity or dormitory group which is declared the win- ner of the award this year wiH re- tain it.s possession for two years, until the· next Union-Hamilton game at Schenectady. At the time ~f this game, a eimilar contest will :Je held among the college organi- ations to determine the possesscr ,f the cup for the following two /ears. Although this year mig·ht not be considered as good a time to start such a contest as a year in which the game wa:s to be played on the campus, nevertheless etudent opin- ion indicates that a rivalry of this sort among the fraternities and dormitory groups will result in a better appearance of the campus for the Hamilton week-end. The establishing of such a contest would be a permanent factor in heightening campus spirit for this traditional game. ------o--- Tournament Bid Given Chess Club Four Man Delegation To Compete With Twenty Colleges The Eastern States Intercollegi- ate Chess Association has extended an invitation to the Union College Chess Club to participate in its tournament, it was announced yes- terday by Wilbur Lakin, secretary of the club. This tournament will take place from the 26th to the 29th of December in the Hotel Almanac which is the headquar- \We can't afford not to go on tez·s of the Manhattan Chess Club caring,\ Rabbi Stephen Samuel of New York City. The Harold M. Wise, of the Free Synagogue of Phillips trophy, awarded to the New York City told a congregation best college chesG group in the of more than 1000 persons Sunday East, will be given the winner. morning in the Memorial Chapel on Lakin indicated that a similar the campus. Rabbi Wise said he invitation has been sent to some answered the question, \Must we twenty other colleges in the East remain true to the things we once including such institutions as Har~ The college band, under the di- cherished?\ with an emphatic, vard, Yale, Dartmouth, Williams, rection of Professor Charles T. \Yes\, citing examples of personal- and Bowdoin. Male, and Ka-ppa Alpha fraternity's ities in history who had done so It was .stated by the secretary male quartet were featured in a against overwhelming difficulties. of the Chess Club that plans are varietr concert presented last night Rabbi Wise said that those who being made to have Union repre- in the auditorium of the P.N.A. had succeeded in carrying out an . sented at the tournament by a four Community Home on Crane Street, ideal were caring for something man team. This team will be chosen under the auspices of the Polish bigger than themselves. \The most from Maurice Deul, '42, Fred Sie- Welfare Council of Sc·henectady. difficult of all the arts\ he said, \is gel, '43, Marvin Smith, '43, Charles Proceeds of the concert went to that of going on caring when it no Snell, '43, and Larkin. At the pres- the council's Polieh Relief Fund, longer seems worth while.\ ent time the club is making prep- which is aiding Polish refugees in Wil!iaJm Lloyd Garrison, Abraham arations for contests with com- Europe. Professor Male acted .as 1 Lincoln and Theodore Hcrtzel, each panion. members of the Upstate co-chairman on the program ar- of whom had the liberation of an Ne~ York State Chess League, rangements committe e. George ·1 oppressed race as his ideal, perse- which includes RPI, New York Dudley Holmes '41, directed the vered because, Rabbi Wise said, State College for Teachers, Col- .ft·atemit;v quartet. \They went on CIU'ing,\ gate and Union.

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1940 I NOTICE I TUITION NOTICE Hale House will be closed after The third installment . of TUI- lunch on Wednesday, No1•embet TION is due an·d should be paid 20th, until breallfast on :\1onduy. at the Comptroller's Office on Fri- arnttrnr Novembet· 24. day. NovembPr If>. No bi:Jis ave i<- ' About suppet· time Saturday the bool<s. Sl{idmore. and the Tap I _!he Fr·~s.hman Weeki~· ?i~lH!l' ~ued a~d it ~~ ,:·eques~ed t~at all 'n<>ws began to filter in fotty lo Room because it is ont• of lht' idiu- VIlli he SPJ\ed rm Sunda). l\io\rm- .tudent. hn\ln~ pn,rnent;; due , six. It was hard to •believe. Harde1 svncraC'ies of American educati'<m ber 17t-h, BUT WILL N'OT BE. makt• tht·m promptly. ~·ny mal·~ I to take. Some irrational souls im- that loyalty to a college hHs bl'come SERVED ON MONDAy OR TUES- aft PI' th<' ah<WP olatr wtll be ~ub- FtJL 'Llll> 1 S77 .. I C'olllScl!'riS<l l'dtul< .lss<1i\ Mt.:l~l~~ti~t.: -:\;:::-~l~llt:~l- L'ul~~~--~l~---1·1-;:-~-;--~~·~~~ lll~ll JlJUll•l ~ uL ~lt~Cv1· lt·giatt• lllge:--t. I ' m.edmtely jumped 10 .rhe conclusi!oJn 'dusely. identified with suppol't of DAY. No1·ember 18th and 19t-h. . jr<'t to th<> usual finr for latP pay- that this was only more reason to its fool•ball team. Because the words Ccmpttollet 'ment. Tl\l:l,ffh l.tl IlL\\ ;j .. ,·t~~~ •f : L~ --;~it l-.~~ l tl-:-~·-.;:t-.n~- l'~tU!;;!7-;: lf Tut ~ day a11d Fridays t·ltrntl!.!h(lllt th<· t'11l!t C't· ~··:tl I get down to meet that ll:H train, Cnion Cuilege _identify fot· them an 1 ----~-- -- ----_-~- ..., hum Rudi\'ster. The tea-m probably, mtangtble entity slightly more s1g-j G- ____ .__..,. ______ ....,,_,__._...., ____ ..., ____ \1 Edito-flul- ItOUiil.~-SffliTilait ll.dl.- l·uu-,1~- t_'\ ·ICt~g.t. l ·ani!Hl.... Tt:lt 4 tdwll\·: St~ht·Tit·~._•tady, 4-Ltl~~- Publit•.utioit--()Jtier: 'l'ht.~ li~tzt.·ti;; l'It'\'\'• J~·l St.tl.t· :-'t, ~tht:llt'L'l~~tt):· ~. Y .. 1\·It:tli&t.Jitt• -l--114.1 ~~t-lt:l't.·;i: .t:llhl'~ .... ~h~·J.t~~~Hl)--l',, _ _:t- l-;fl'.t• t· .t~ :'ttt•Ld-l';,t~:-. }!.1., ~'l.l•l:tr. Su!J:,~l-lV\ll~~O-i F~\c t~ltl~ .t ,uJ•)-, $--:-ou-~~--);:u, tlt.iJ~t.lul •. ll•)~\ilt.-'lt.: in tho L'utted. ::Hatt•::,. Senior Board James E. Twining, Jr ............................... Editm -in-Chief l'lu }' ... 1 L\di->1 4 t;.- . .:; Laska:r Schwartz ................................ Business :.\Ianager K.tJ'J•.l :\11 n~·ll .. , ... \ ~ .. :1 Robert S. Schulberg ..................... , ........ Associate Editor Paul \\'. Bt'<'ker ..... As>'ociate Editor Jolm D. l'hillips .. , .................................. Sport, Editor l'~i l·p ... Jivn llt·u~t>---!-'7lv John P. Lewis ..................................... Editor-at-Large .:\'l'iddlt St-clillt!. ;..:ltl'Lh L' 'llt•t;t• ti-~l~lt ti J. Donald Haigh .............................. Ci1culation !\1anager !'hi llr:lt a Tht·la 1 I' ttU~t.~ t~ 1:2 t l REPRESENTE.ID FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, lnc. College Publishers RePresentative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES t SAN FRANCISCO Junior Board Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman Samuel Portnoy -----------------. -~--~-------- Sophomore Board Robert Dake, Robet·t Bishop, Granger Tripp, Thomas O'Connor, Richard Watanabe. Arthur Cohen, Everett 1\icCarty, Robet·t Hayner, Harvey Fishbone. Robert Allan, Photogtaphic Editor Stanley Greenstein Justin Perlstein Issue Editor ..... . Samuel Portnoy Business Staff Joseph Jaycox Harold Messenger Myron Mills David Rosenblum ..................... Armand Feigenbaum Assistants Hat Vl y Fh;hbone Tuesday. November 12. 1940 didn't feel too good about the whole nificant than th.e t;tathematical ~urn 1 thing; a 10usmg n•cepttun would do, of all the bmldmgs, cnterpnscs, i them no harm. So someone tun~ed likes. g1 udges. and people on this I to a couple of sophomores lea\'Lllg t•ampus. BL'causL loyalty is a s!itis- 1 Hale House and qu•!Iied hopefully,, ·f~ ing .sentiment. Because 'Union is .. Going down to meet the team at 1 a small college and partallcs of the' 11:30?\ The spoketman of the pair 1 limitations of its ty.pe. Because. I looked a bit sut prised for a mo-, withcut the cosmopoli-tan spread I ment. Then he grinned. Then he, the big namL'S, the intellectual 'teplied, \\\'hat for? . , . to help, so.phistiealion of a large univc1sHy.l · I carry the :;tretchers? Yea, \\rHAT. this college must <.!raw its stlength FOR?\ ; !1~1~: cros;-.fire. of .. individu~l i~-~ 1 Those who had propoSPl1 the otig- 1 tete t. and ·.).mp.tthtt.· .tnd !1om <II 11nal quc::;Uun v...·e1e sorucwhat start- 1 t\orrnrn.tf\ :o=::ptnt natVI' :l~ thl' \\'ords I led. This strucli tht.'m as a peeuliar sound. tesponse, but before they oould hit Because for a century and a half upon .something to say in return. boys, at about the time that they the wisely foolish ones passed on. discovet a germ of maturity in Pe1 haps the answer is no easy one. themselves, have been wearing Perhaps at any rate, the 150 odd down these stones, making friends, who turned out, raucously to r!is- and in their purposeless way, en- turb the midnight quiet of El'ie riching this place. Because we at·e Boulevard ought to explain them- doing the same thing. Because this selves. is no high school wh~t e we put in What for? our hours and get home to better To throw a sop to a d·efeated things~nor something less than a team? To make a friendly gesture high school, as a junior suggested to a bunch of nice guys? Those the other day when he said, \I were not -the real ·puiposes. don't mind so much seeing Union To express enthusiasm for the lose. but a l\Iont Pleasant defeat game of football?~to show their really gets me down.\ enthusiasm and suppo1 t for the Because we're in a bad way if a squad? Not even this was the basic, massed singing of the Alma Mater unconscious motive of the welcom- doesn't still give us a discernible ing committee. vertebral twinge every time we The peace-disturbing 150 left hear it. I DQCUlfy 71!8\ember :, mp 0 e 1 :Ut 5 be 0 rs 1 1 will base their term re- .1.1 j lJ\..I.! 0 these activities. • • ,.,., [ I An interesting feature of this Gzve Radzo .~_,a ks ?lass is the s~udent ··interneship·· • m state and ctty departments. All Eighteen member,s of the faculty,! members of the class having an who have been speakers in the, average of B or above may apply se1 ies of .. American Faith\ ad-. through Profes;;or O'Rourke fo1· dresses in Daily Assembly, are •par-, summer po:;itions in the differPnt ticipating in a similar series being 1 administrative offices in Al'bany. broadcast weekly by Radio Station, Professor O'Rourke's cla::'s is =============-=- - --~--- WGY, it was announced yesterday.! ~imited to juniors or seniot·s and THIS YEAR IT'S OUR TURN- The professors will deliver the same, ts a one year course. h h 'II f 1. h d · I t] speeches on the air which have;-------------- It seems as t oug we WI orever ue aunte Wit l 1e been delivered by them in their re- · ----- necessity to write another editorial deploring the letha1-g-y spective chapel appearances. which seems to be the permanent and main characteristic of The seties, already underway, oc- cupies a fi-fteen minute period be- Union students when they are called upon to w;sume their tween 1:30-1:45 on Saturday alter- responsibilities in activities. noon. It was inaugurated with two 1 addresses by President Dixon Ryan! We could easily proceed along- genemllines, Lut the imme- Fox on Oct. 5 and Oct. 12. on these: diate reason for this exhortation is, as it has been for the occasions. Dt·. Fox's talks were en- titled, .. Reaffil mation\ and \The past few weeks, the poor puulic exhibition of college spirit at Background of our American De- Union. \\'e might strain our imaginations and laud the slight- moct·acy.\ On the next two weeks, two lectures were given by Dt. Bar- est improvements, for there has been some improvement old A. Larrabee, on .. The Amet·ican since we last had the opportunity to speak, but our conscience Conception of Freedom.\ On No· vembet 2, Dr. Joseph D. Doty, would bother us. The small band of students who made the spoke on the subject, \How our trip to the New York Central stet tion Friday night to see the Civil Liberties Got Established,\ d S I and Dr. Bm·ges Johnson followed team off to Rocheste1· and those \rho reappeare late ~ atur- with his discourse on, \What is dav night to weleome the tt:>alll back should l>t:> cntwratulated, ~Icant by a Free Press'?\ la.:>t Sat-, f01: their efforts. Still it seems that there is somethlng defin- mTdahy. 1 . . I . . . . . e rema mng programs 1n the , Itely amiSS when the proportiOn of students who wlll make series. which will run through Jan- i such efforts is so askew. uary 25, 19<11, are as follows: 1 Nov. 16. Dr. Douglas W. Campbell.: Throughout the world today we see signs of \Vhat happens to people who are content to sit back and let someone else do the wo1·k. It took a brutal nighbti<:k to wake them up, \V\Tha t is Constitutional Law? 1 to be heard at 11:15 a. m.l Nov 23. Pmf. :0.101·timer F. Sayre, \The Problem of '\Naste in a De- , only too late. It may seem silly when we try to associate all mocracy\ this with local campw; life, but the same situations can very i Nov. 30. Dr. Harold w. BlodgNt possibly arise here. I ··v.·~y. the .~merican Literal ure of. Cymctsm? 1 to .be heard at 11:15 :\Iuch has been said <~uuut the ailing- undergraduate spirit a. m.> and about those who are content to ::;it back and \let someone De>P. 7. Rev. Herbe>t·t R. Houghton. I d tl k .. It . t' I . d r· . d \The Advantagp of the American e se o re wot· . 1s une somet 'llllg · e Illite was one to Chmch\ · · improve this deplomble condition and today's issue carries Dec. 14, Dl'. Harrison c. Coffin. an announcement which we feel will IJI'O\'e to be a step in the \FrePdom of Teaching in Amer-, ica .. right direction this year and in years to come. Little can be done through an editorial column in a college paper, especially one which is read by so few, to bolste1· a weakening under- graduate spirit, but we are now being given the opportunity to show the doubtful that sue h spirit still flolll'ishes at Union. President Fox has offered to present a prize to that fra- ternity or dormitory group which makes the best display or decoration for Hamilton week-end. Although Union can claim no credit for inaugurating such a plan, the competition Dec. 21, Dr. Bertrand M. Wainger. \Emerson's View of American, Life\ 1 Dec. 28. Dr. Wainger, \Whitman's! View of American Life\ I Jan. 4, Dr. Benjamin P. Whitaker, \Individual Enter prise and Social; Justice\ The last three radio speakers re-I main to be chosen at present. ---o--~ will be an innovation on our campus and we strongly urge 0' Rourke Makes Plans one hundred percent cooperation from all fraternity and For Gm•ernment Class dormitory groups. It has been with a great deal of pleasure that we've trav- eled to Clinton twice in the past tht·ee years to see the houses on the hill appropriately decorated with banners, effigies and novel displays. These decorations were characteristic of the spirit which has always prevailed at Clinton upon the occa- sions of the Union-Hamilton games. Win, lose or draw the Continentals have made the \l!nion game\ and \Union week- end\ one of extreme importance from start to finish. This month, Dr. Vernon A. O'Rourke's class in \State and Lo- cal Government\ will visit state ad- ministrative offices in Albany, such as the Budget Bureau, and the Public Service Commission, Dr. O'Rourke said today. Here the heads of the bureaus will explain in detail their work and duties. Many of these men also will appear before the class on the campus,! either for formal lectures or· for' infot·mal dis-cussions. I Jlut.·Eoc, Good S~aN 2'r. Cltlltl. lll~ PROCTOR'S-Toduy-I.ast Times I CLArDETTh RAY COLIIK!tl' e- l\IILLA.::\D \ARSSE MY LOVE\ 2 Big Ilits-Rll'IIAJ!.D IJIX In \'CMERO!<EE STRIP'\ Roaring! Thrilling! ADTEXTnu: A 3IILE RIGHI \CHARTER PILOT\ LLOYD NOLAN LYNN BARI Arleen Whelan Bowlers ••• ImJn·ove Tour Game -S~e Ed Thorgerseu's . • .. BOWLING FOR STRIKES .. • ~,,,~ --~ . <tll ~ Ali will agree that Union's \Hamilton game\ and \Ham- ilton week-end\ are of equal importance, but seldom do we show it. It's now om· turn to make Union's campus present- able and g·ive Hamilton students the reception they have given us for so many yeat·s. Let's have the cooperation of all and may the decision of the judges be final. When the legislature convenes in January, the students will turn j ~heit: efforts ~oward attending leg- I 1slahve meetmgs and committee ' hearings. They also expect to in-j tet·view prominent legislators, com-1 mittee chairmen, and representa-~ tlvea of J>l'essut·e s-t·ou,ps. The class ~===========~ For The Gridiron :Ball • V:inicks can outfit you with • 8 Tails • Tuxedos • White Vest 0 Black Vest • Bow Ties • Studs • Black Silk Sox • Key Chain • Dress Shirts Rental Dept. TAILS TUXEDOS (single or double breasted) VINICK\S Men's Shop 514 STATE ST. At LAFAYETTE For More Fun Out of Ute Chew Delicious DOUBlEMlNT GUM DailY · the d e-venings-enJOY Highspoi: your days an . DOUBLEMINT GUM. f h · g refreshmg fun o c ewm ,.. of DOUBLEMINT GUM The velvety smoothnes\'f h wt'ng Delicious, talfunoce · h adds to the na ur 1 ake your mout al · t flavor he ps :m. cooling, re -mm d f to everything you do. feel refreshed ... ad s : 1 . expensive treat Chewing this healt uh, ln aids your dig€S- t ourbreat · · · helps swee en 'Y t th attractive. tion ... helps keep ~our e~ealthful, delicious Treat yourself daily to DOUBLEMINT GUM. Buysevera\ packages ot DOUBlEM\tH GUtdtpdu~!7 ·.) Ro As A ball of l noon high Un•io rang lair · .peop ings ing with Rive they the the I have HL play on, ' peric and get .to c vert1 a to· trJ.c~ alert enal to t tearr peri< Co the I thirc vers• frorr et1·at ritor time and othe Le wi-th terb: on ·I prov Roc: the the next righ TE Bill 271 pass man and Pete extr Ul nier Ens first Roc nier Bru• Unir for ' pas< Unir a lo. scar dow tad extr U: witl er, terr ed l Roc the Roc pun as I pia~ thr< Bru that ~COl plat Uni u 36 on!~ Hill end

aid i:,- aU ub- ay- ·.\ .:'.'' '\ THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1940 Page Thre'e Rochester Rolls Over Dutchmen,40-6, IGllian Downed on Rochester 21 Yal'd Line After a Pass From Hillick X-Country T earns; Williams Split; As Va,rsity ·Re(eives Fourth S·etback 1 Guibert Scores Lone Garnet Touchdown in Third . 1 As Bruckel Tallies Four for the Rivermen A University of Rocheste1· foot-! ball team tos; ed aside the cloak of underdog u11 Saturday after- noon, threw their machine 1nto high gear. and stormed over the Union goal l·ine >ix times as they rang up a 40-6 victory in their ow·n lair ·be fen e a crowd uf nearly 6,UOG ,people who watched t·he proceed- ings with disbelieving eyes. Strik· ing on the ground and in the air with lightning-like sudcleness, the Ri vermen ran up thE> biggest >core they have eve1· recunled aga:in:<t the Dutchmen, as well a:< handing the Dutchmen the wurst deft>at the> STATISTIC'S OF GAME l Vnion Roch. Fi1·st downs .. , . . . . . . . . . . . 14 17 Yards gained rushing .... 163 267 Yards gained pa:<sing .... 69 184 Forward pa~sC's attPmptrd 21 21 Fonnll'd pmses completPd 6 12 Passes intercepted by ... , 0 3 L&t~ral passes . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 5 Number of punts . . . . . . . . 4 6 Average distance of punts 32 33 Fumbles , . . . . . . . . 3 5 Ball lo~t fumbles 2 0 have suffered >inee 1935. tu~~cu a I>a<s tu Bu.,;:; Killian on Hucheolcl :>CUI cd ull the tbi1 C: the Tiuchcokl ~G. En~ticc broke 1 play of the game. and frurn then thruugh Ct!!ltet fo1 ::!0 more tv the ' on, with the exception of the thkci Rivermen',; 6. Another ct·ack at period, held the Dutchmen in check ~enter by Enslice gained nothing. and never gave them a chance to 'Guibert scored on the nex,t play on get going. The Rivermen seemed an end around. Sherman's place .to do eve1·ything right and con- kick wa::; wide. Roche:::ter 27, verted every Union bad break into Union 6. a touchdown, with their speed and Sherman kicked off to ::;tart the tricky ball handling. With their last peri0d and in six plays Bruckel alert and ~mart play and phenom- going over on the Rivermen',; po- ena! aerial attack, they appeared ten;t s·hovel pass which the Dutch- to this observer to be the bette1 men were unable to :;top all after- team on the field, but not as su- noon. Bob Baker blocked the at- perior as the score may indicate. tempted place kick with his face C0-Captain Jack Guibert ~cored arrd was forced to leave after play- the lone Dutchmen tally late in the ing a bangup ball game. Rochester third period on an end around re- 33, Uni.:>n 6. verse ftom Ed Enstice, to go over from the six :,;ard stripe. Union pen- etrated deep into Rochester ter- ritory three other time>\ but each time attempted passes bacldired and a fourth down punt ended the other drive. Rochester's First Finale RESL'LTS OF THE FOOTBAI.L FIELD MEET L Delta Upsilon Entrance Points 30.000 2. Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30.000 3. Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 000 4. Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30.000 5. Kappa Alpha ..... , ........... 30.000 6. Kappa Sigma ................ 30000 7. Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . . . . . 30.000 8. Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30.000 8. Neutrals ......... , .......... . 30000 10. Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30.000 11. Delta Phi ........ , . . . . . . . . . . . 30.000 11. Psi Upsilon .................. 30.000 Additional l'oints 45.000 29.943 20.353 19180 18 983 16.440 14.873 13 700 13.700 10.960 1173 1.173 Total Point;; 75.000 59 943 50.353 49.180 48.983 46.440 44.873 43.700 43.700 40.960 31.173 31173 30.000 30.000 30.000 Lee Sherman, who alternated wRh Enstice at fullback and quar- terback dur.jng the game. fumbled on the first play of the game to provide the break for the first Rochester score. Sherman returned the kickoff from the Union 20 to the 42 and dropped the ball on the next play as he ripped through hi~ right tackle. 13. Chi Psi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 000 13. Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30.000 13. Phi Sigma Delta ............• 30.000 13. Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . . . . . 30.000 The Rivermen weren't through for the afternoon and scored as ;oon a:; the~· got their hands on the ball again. Em:tice returned the kickoff 34 yards to the Rochest•>r' 41. Vannie!' passed to the 30 be- fore another attempted aeria:l was intercepted. The Rivermen, capi- talizing on the weak Union pass , defense, and its inability to ~ tJp I' 30 OOO Bruckel on the receiving end of the I 13. Theta Delta Chi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 30.000 30.000 . 000 shovel pass, drove for four first I ~~1~3~. ~D~e~l~t~a~C~h~i~. ~· ·~·~·~· ~· ~· ·~·~·~·~· ~· ·~·~·~·~· ::· ~~·0:0~0~~:::~~~~~~~~ downs and a touchdown in ten _ __ _ . _ ----~~----~· plays. Taking the ball on the Union 42, Bill Sandow drove through to the 27 and on the next play took a pass from Tom Frawley, jug.gled it momentarily, eluded two Dutchmen and scored standing up. Captain Pete ·Stranges converted for the extra. point. * • While Bill Bruckel was probably the outstanding man on the field with high scoring honors of four touchdowns, Co-Captains Vannier and Guibert played a bangup game for the Dutchmen. Both received a well deserved round of applame from the Rochester fans when they were helped off the field late in the game. * * * Interested i11 Schmertady Interested in USION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jev:eler 166 JAY STREET Jf'atch a11d Jewelry Rt'pairiug a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy Union took the kickoff as Van- nier ran. it back to the Union 23. Enstice and Vannier picked up a first down but the hard driving Rochester forwards forced Van- nier to punt a few minutes later, Bruckel returning the ball to the Union 27 Frawley cr.acked center for 4 yards before Bt ucl,el tossed a pass to \Chopper\ Carmen on the Union 8. Filawley was dropped for a loEs but on the next play Bruckel scored the first of his four touch- downs on a reverse over right tackle. Bob WoodE drop kicked the extra point. nochester 14, Union 0. ~~ If Rochester's style of play is t:~<\']Jical of the stuff DeGroot's cronies teach out on the coast, we'd like to watch a couple of western teams in action. More wide open, , ::-=-=-=============~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;; razzle dazzle play we have yet to 1 Union Cliel•s Union opened the second half with an awesome display of pow- er, driving deep into Rochester territory before Vannier waE sno>>\· ed under tt·ying a fourth down pass Roche:;ter punted out and again the Dutchmen drovP deep into Rochester te!Titory. Hillick finally punting out on the Rochester 14 1 as the attack stall.ed. On the first. play Frawley b:asted his way' through to the 20, lateralled to , Br uckel and threw the key block! that opened the way fo1· Bruckel to i 'core his second touchdown. Wood~ place kick was wide. Ruche:oter 27, 1 l Union 0. Guibert Scores I Union took the kiclwff to their , 36 and rolled 64 yards for their only touchdown of the afternoon. : Hillick picked up 18 yards around. I end and through guard and then. 1 FOR THE see. The unexpected always comes I first. * * * However, the Rochester game i:: dead and buried, and now the finale !Continued on Page 4> Proclucfs for Better Qualify • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-312 I General Ice Cream Corp. GRIDIRON BALL To Rate with your Date You'll need a CORSAGE Get If af UNION'S Florist T. J., KING---Florist Overhead Crossing (State Street) PHONE 4·6444 AGENTS ON CAMPUS WALLY MacMILLAN FRANK W. ENGLAND Phi Gamma Delta House-4-8323 Call Ball and Ball Will Call PHONE 6-3456 \!' ll write my address on 1 erry' s cuff- it doesn't take him an hour to find one.\ Whether dancin' or romancin', Arrow dress shirts improve your style. Campus favorites are Kirk and Shoreham at $3 each. Arrow Shirts are beautifully tailored and authentically correct. Sanforized. Shrunk guarantees less than 1% shrinka~e. INTRAMURALS FOOTBALL FIELD MEET Kicking goals: ~IacKenzie, Phi Gamma Delta c 5); Diedrich. Sigma Phi, and Timpson, Kappa Alpha t4J; Dutcher·, Sigma Chi. England, Phi Gamma Delta, :\.Ic- Kennis, Sigma Phi, Holmes, Kappa Alpha, Bartlett. Delta Upsilon, Lee, Delta Phi, and Fletcher, Psi Up::ilon !3J. Football throw for distance: Davis. Alpha Delta Phi 1149 >; Santee, Phi Delta Theta 1 147.5>; Coach. Delta Upsilon, Betb, Kappa Alpha, and Keller, Sigma Chi !147>. Punting for distance: Knapp. Sigma Chi c97>: :::VfcKennis. and Raifstanger, Sigma Phi 190>; Keers, Delta Upsilon c 89>: Smith, Beta Theta Pi •87> . Flack-kick for distance: La Pann, Neutral !94); Bartlett, Delta Upsilon 1 93J; Furlong, Beta Theta Pi C92.5l; Reilly, Beta Theta Pi !9ll; Smith. Beta Theta Pi c 87J. opp. cld armory open evenings Haberdashery \as you like it\ i04 ALBA.... ..... 'Y ST. FOR Arrow Shirts , Freshmen Winning 1 l!i!l [{t·tz·':-; }::ut if•J ~ gain(·d an l.,vPn .•plit \'' F1 idav afternoon in I ' tb il nlt·l't~ l.'.ith tl!t.'\\\llliam::; c1u~,; t·oun t 1 \' tt·:tm. t b· fre,'hmen win- 1 ning §G-3fl, .an•! the vai><ity losing, 1~·37. ll \'\~ th•· .-•·•·ond win of the 1 .~t·a,:-;(Jn aga111.~t onl· lo:-:-; for the 1 Y\'\lir:~\· wl:i!t- the va1':-'ity lost I tlwir foUith \·' again.·t two vie- t (J} il~:-:. Co-Captidn Do.c :\Taim·s was the tir\t Dutdmwn to <T\'s the finish lilw, and wao< al:'u the unly Unioh nnHl•'l t., tini ... h in thP n1oney, in thit d pllll't'. C'!tapman and Grigg:' of \\'tlliarw• tinlo'h<·tl in fir>t and ..:f·f'c•t·d Jd't( \· ff~,, ftJf'nH•r nPgot.int- 1 ir1.: ·thP l7 n•i'•·-- il' '27 11 nnrl ·hi~ I t•·a!Jlnl't.t.•· m :27 311 :\!ainr-,o was t hi1 d, u <J>;Ing the line of 27:44, followPd by four \Villiams runners. 1 Continurd on Page 4) IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State Street -Our Service is Ideal -Just Try One Haircut It takes a sturdy laundress ..• , • . to rub the buttons off an Arrow shirt. Arrow has a pat-ented button stay that a11chors buttons on. Records ~how that Arrow buttons come off !/lOth as often as other shirt buttons. Besides which Arrow is a wonderful shirt. Get some today. $2, up. Dan Ao Donahue 240·242 State Street Clotliing Who's Who at a House Party THE CRINKLE CHEST (Every fraternity has one). liP's miserable enough with his ancient off-color dress shirt, hut when it huekles and leaves its mooring and goes \crinkle crunch,\ he dies a million deaths. Since you can't keep him locked in the cellar, tell him ahout Arrozt• Shoreham, the soft pleated bosom dress shirt with the comfortable semi-soft collar attached, S3. See your Arrow dealer. (For tails~ Arrow Kirk, very smart, very smooth- fitting. $3.) ARROf1/ SHIRTS

Pa.ge Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1940 Spofford Bowman Freshmen Administer Crushing Defeat to Sophomores 0 iscuss Defense In Second Annual Cane-Rush and Tug of War Classlc By HOBERI' HAY:SER, '43 1 Speakers Debate Issue Of Centralization and Government Control The .procedure of a Ft·eshman 1 ::!ane-Rush victory i~ r·apidly tal{ing I em the aspeets of a tradition. The :::::Jas>5 of 19H did their •bit in the Pstab!i:;hment of such a tradition ~·ith a will last Saturday, when \If we manage om· national de- they turnc>d out en masse for the f.ense pu:Jgr·am 01 any other drastic second o.f these annual battles on PffiPre·pnrv. ·withottt rPstt'if'tions on 0:~~~'\'\n \C':r~~l ~.1-ln f!·nc:'bmPn th£> nor·mal libertiC'~ of democracy., usually thr under dogs in such an I rl'strictiuns on caprtal as well a~ encounter, tur·necl uut to be the lq,hnr nn •h11c:h,n~c: n~ \\'f:lll qc: inrl11C:~ . • • . · r . l .. __ - !..,. +1-.:- ....... ,. As '43 Fell Rochester Beats Union By Crushing 40-6 Score FOOTBALL CONTEST Union ......... Hamilton Colgate ........ Syracu:;e (Continued from Page 3 l Harvard · · · · · · ·Brown · · · · · · · · · with Hamilton. We feel that after . C\lumbia ·····.Navy · · · · · · · · · · the grand style in which the team 1 1 . Georgetown ···Boston College.· was welcomed back on SatHrday Tulane ·······.Georgia · · · · · · · night, that the old. Epirit that so · Villanova ····.Manhattan · · · · much has been said about has · Southern cropped up. That with the rise of California · · · Washington · · spirit in the student body the 1·e- Holy Cross · · · ··Temple · · · · · · · · action will have a favorable effecl Oklahoma ····.Missouri · · · · · · · on the team and that Hamilton will · Name · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Class · · · g-n thr wn;- nf n~,·rrfnrrl. '\firlrl'<'- Address · · · · ................... . I bury and Hobart. I· In the event that you wish to >ignify a tie, check both teams. · FniOJl- i~o<'hP\tPl'- ChPrk VOlll' \PlPrtion~· RHil trial production, then indeed I fear t-i~~l~t:-- ·~;.;~·.~ ·,;~;t~~~1bel'ing their Guibert ........ L.E ........ Carmen for· the .future of th<:' d<:'moet atir hatPd ad vei~at ie~ by a.ppruximately Weintraub .... , L.T ........... Grab drop s.lip in The Concordiensis mP. ilbox at the l'ight of the back dom· of Silliman Hall by Friday, November 15 at 6:00pm. statt•,\ said \\'. Franklin Spoffm·d, threl' to ont'. Baker ......... L.G ...... G<:'hlmann Pr·ofpssot of Eeunomics and Bu~i- The clt•ar, eool, atmo,;phete of Sawyet:........ c. . ... Humphries ness Aumini>·tnllion in Rl'n~sdaer this Fall altl'tnoon was r<'flccted Goldblatt. ..... R.G ............ Gav, Po.lytechnic Institute at the Empire \\ery ddinitely in tlw clcar, cll'~.n· Mara .......... R.T ...... Gr·epnwald II ::>tate Town :\il'Pting in Old Chapel cut dpd;;inn whi<·h the :\lcn of 44 Semel'ad ....... R.E ........ Kenyon on tttP l'ampus Sunday at'tl'l'llOO!l took !rom tlw rPrnnant of the Class Sher·rnan ...... Q.B ........ StrangPo Pwfessor :::lpofford and Dr. Lc· of 1943 whil'h was present. From Vannier ....... L.H .. , ..... Baldwin Rov J. Bowman of NP\\' York City tlw crack of till' opPning gun. fiiPd Not·r·is.... R.H ......... Sandow the League •for Indu::;trial Democ- f;.eshnwn had it all their own way. Rochester ........ 14 7 6 13 40 The winning student will re- ceive two tickets to Procetor's TheatrP. In case of a tie, the selections ~ubmitted first will be declared winner. Mpmber\ of the editol'ial staff of ThP Conpm·dil'nsis and their families are ineligible for the soc.iolugist and ftPld ~PcrPt:n-y for· bv Ptotessor \\'tltord .A. Ketz. thel' i' Enstice ........ F.B ........ Fraw.·Iey ,. racv were the discussion leader<> in f h t t Unr'on o 0 6 0 6 \ In thl' space o a s or quar ~~·- , .. . . . . . . . . . . . _ :.---------~----- Sunday',;; meeting, which con.:;id- hour·, ·\''\''n of tht• .thirtPP!l eane~ ------------------------------- conteft. ered the topic, \:\lust our national reposed behind the supllomon• goal a !il;e nuantity of the same fruit ! Clowe, to the director's position defense 'program -rno\·e ·inPvita.bly ., toward a socialized state'?\ linP. . 1 which the French me wont to c.alll atop the ancient Ch~ne~e statue. The sophomore\? :\1any still l P- 1 \apples of love.\ Needless to say,, they proceeded to the JUbtlant sing- •Centralization Attal'liPd posed upon thl' liPid of battle. The, the air was soon filled with these, ing of the Alma Mater. Dr. Bowman advocat••<l tht• rij onl't' mi~ht) cb.'>< of '13. which. it: mtssl<•s, whizzing at ;;out! speed Then, tht•il' t!a~ ·~ w01k done, only 1 ICE CREAM DABRY PRODUCTS WM .. GREEN Jlt DAIRY stl\iction of govemm<'ntal ct·ntr·al- will bt• n'nwn:bt't<\d was ttiumph-! through the sparsely wooced area a scant half-hour after they had! ized control to procluction. and sug- ant in last )\ar' b.1tth>, had bowed north of Council Field. Contact in- stalled, tht•;y dispersed with the I gested that it would bP bPst to lt•aw in <!PlPat. TI:P Dtla•r ,;ix cam•s'? tc'lest p 1 evuiled finally howe\'l'l', for confidencl' that thPy nuw have the ~~=============~~~~~~;;~~~~;;~~;;~~ rt>li~IDU~ and {'U!tu!al tll't.ttt•J:\- t(J T~~t'lt'ln l~t·~ :t. ... ,!)!\ ~''t'll~~ tl~Pnl- ~uull thi:- !Jha:-.t: uf the Lattle had:llli\'ilegt\ uf \\'a'lking un the L'~.l!t>gt•; -' the indi\'idual's tkt<'l·mination. HP ~~ ]\·,·,.; h•·at•·n at t 1:;. t·ut,;t'l, t lw vi! bt'etl foJ t•sal;t·n fur t ht• molt' :'tren-, l·;l'.\ 11>' The l' I). \no mutt· caps, was ~~.·D--Q-·-·U_W ____ F-.--B-E--E-K-M--A--N-j:l I said that ht• did not bPlit'V<' tht•n· lainous sophnmcr·,. tartiC\al stall uuus ta:;l; of u tug-of-war over tht•lj also hcat·d drifting o'er the cam- 1701 Union St. Tel. 3-2161 i~ any such thing as \fit'<' PntPl'· spread tl:l' otd<'r tn scutt!t• a,.; many Collt•ge Btuuk. , pus ... That's what thl'y think. pr·isp\ since. h<' cunt<'!1ded, all <'11· c·anps ns po~stblt-. ,.;tnc•· broker.; \\'ithout <louot, many a sopho-' o t 1 tPrpl'ise is undt•l' BOnll' go\'t•rnn:1t'l1- cant's 'Wt't·t• to count for nt•itht.'l ; n1orp tcund to his disillusionment I y . 'd t 1 tnl l'Pgulation and is ·taxabh•. stdt•. such ,;Ub\'<'!Sii'L' acti\'it~: that \'a dip fJum out· Alma :\later\' 'I arslty Lose Frt ay :Gasoline - Brake Service :I Professor Spafford's opPning tall; pl'llVPd to no avail. howt•\'<'r, foi 'is sunll'what les:; desirable than has , ContinuP~ from Page J> 1 1 pointl'll out that t·C\onomir Pl\duc- though tlw c:al:ant litt.lt- hand d 'bt'<'n intimatPd by singing Dutch- 1 Co·Captain Collms, the 1 wxt Union ~ U. S. Tices -Motor Tune-up :I tion influt•net•d P\'t'l'Y otlwr pha\'' 1913 -tro\'t' with a!! tht•IJ nuc:ht. no mt•n tht•St' many ~eaJ;o;, Yes, tl:e, I'Uill!PI' to finr:;h, came in in ei,htll' t I of lifP and t.h:tt dunng a <'!isis ~ucl1 molt· than <ix <':l.l1t·< coulrl lw tl'nt fn·,hmc·n won thb one too. Thu~e 1 · place, 111 :!h:31. ~ f t Exides - Lub1:cat:on: 1 as we alP l'Xpt>tit'nein~ nov . .:. it il\ asundt•t, and thu:-' It·ndt•tt>d u::-PlPs~. !4ophunHH'PS v.:hu did n1anage to.l Tht' \'t'tlt':ing lean~ \Vas paced by 1 I ::' essential to han· c<'nt.tahZl'd eon- .Although ladonc: n~ tl:t· fenw1ut~~: maintain a holtl on thP fast·slip-' Davp \·an Dhl;; ancl nc'n Suther-, t 1 · trol. intt>n,it\' of !:1.~1 \<•at s cont<'\'· th1s pin•• Jc·I><' sonn camP to rest in the! 1 1 1 t' \ct f fi t 1 1,• 601 UNION STREET 1 1 1 • . • . r-- • aJH, w 10 10 ot rs p ace, go- :-.ear·s affair had a <\<'!'tam dtsttnc· · cnul 1 vt>·1·y <'on! I dPpth~ of the, ing the dbt:llll'P in 15:51. while' t 1 tt\'P chara<'t<·tHw. :\!any ut tht• \bmok that hounds.\' 'Adam\. sturg''' and Brown fini>h- : Open Until II P.M. :: ('ALK'i'D:\H. Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Tonight 6·45 p m Sdwn<'ctady County Alumni Association :\!t•etmg, Hale Houst'. :::lpeaker, Dr. Vet- non .A. O'Rourke, \An Analysi,; eontbatants <\Xhtbitt·d '' d••ct<:L'dl~ It was then the freshmen's turn; ed WPll up in the to·> to aive the 1 1 Phone 6-1248 um:<'ntlt•manly t1 a it nf 11pping tht• to bound, and bound th<•y did, all ' fn·~hmt·n thP 1 . 11 , • ., ' \' ~-----------------------' ~~::::;::::.:;::;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::=:=:=:::;:::::;:::::;:::::;::::=~ ttol!St'l.'i !Jolll t•mb:~ttlt·d \l>i><ll<'lltS tht> wa~ to tlw hi~to!'H' Idol, whet·e. ·-------------- ----·----- _ ----~ with thP inevitablt' tPsult that man) having Plevated their !Paller·. John of the Election RP,;ults.\ 7:30 p. m. :-;,•wnw.n Club :\1<·Pt· ing, Silliman Halt 7:-!5 p. m. Cla,sieal Club :\!t•d- ing. Home of Professor Kel- logg. .SpPaker, Count Cal\lo Sfurza, \The lnfluc>nce o! Romp on Italy Today\ R:OO p. m. Scheneetad;.· Synl- phony OrchPstra, :\lemur in! ·Chaprl. \\'Pdnesda.~· 10 no a. m. Daily As,.;pmbly. Robert .A. :V!olloy. '41. \lJnit£>d Sta t<'s :\Iarines\ ~Iemorial Chap<•!. 3:30 p. m. Glt:'e Club Rc>hl'm-,;al. Hanna Hall. 5:00 p. m. ---Public SpPaldng Class. Old hCapPl. 7:00 p. m. Bible Studs Group, Horne of Pt nfp,;;sor and :\!r·s. Taylor, 3x l'nion A vPnue. 8·00 p.m.- LP<'tllJP, Count Cal'lo Sforza. \The P<'rmam•nt Ele· nwnts of Italian Lift•\ Old Chapl'l. Thursda~· 10:00 a. m. Daily Assembly. Group of Alumni 8pPakt•t ~. :O,!emorial Chapel. 7.30 p. m. Pyramid Club :\!~<>l­ ing. Silliman Hall. 8:0!) p. m. Faculty \\'omen's G) m Cia,;,;, Friday 10.00 a. m. Daily Assembly, Dr. Ellllet A. Tr<.lmar.:<h, Memonal Chapt•l. opp. Lit! aimuJ y opl·n , \'t•Bm.gt< 1Elirtuirr :!itru ·.a ~lp:t.p Haberdashery \as you like it .. 704 ALBA:\'Y ST. DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM \\'e Spr·ve Beter Food for Better Health 118-120 JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUR MOTTO ''Quality - Service Satisfaction\ • 598 B'way - For Better Values 1 ~allant lud~ bo1 P ·CPI'tain aspt)r'ts of thP hurhazous .sa\'H~P. At this point. llowt•VP!'. t lll' muni- tron,.; tram of t;t'll. \\'~~oeki rPpot·t- Pd for· :H·tton, b1 inging with it a siZl•ablr storl' of tom a toes. ripP and uthPI WISP, of wl1ieh the sophomores qmrkly avai!Pd thPmselv<•s. Not to be outdone•, thP Ft·eshn1Pl1 produred SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper. One Step frorr State Streel LOUIS WASSERMAN 345 Broadway QUALITY MEAT MARKET Phones 4·3364, 4·3365 GooJ things to cat ••• and ice-cold Coca-Cola. You see it everywhere, be- cause the life and sparkle and taste of ice-cold Coca-Cola add something to food that everybody likes. Try it yourself .. PAUSE THAT REFRESHES DotrlcJ under authority of The C:oca·Cob Co. bv SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, Inc. Give 'em the SMOKER'S cigarette and watch 'em register COOLER, MILDER, BETTER-TASTING With Chesterfields the smoking situation is ahvays \Veil in hand-because Chesterfields have what smokers want. Chesterfield's right combination of American and Turkish tobaccos makes it the smoker's cigarette. Do you smoke the cigarette that SATISFIES and research have pul Chesterfield far aut in front in the blending and preparation of to· baccos to give you a cooler, better-tasting and definitely milder cigarette. ;As seen 10 the new film \TOBACCOiAND U. S. A.\) • Z- Vol 1 T at 1 witl She Ro~ ban Hal tor Mol 0 cen a SSt on H. nib' wh< the and wit s wh~ Rot tero whj lea' for< tha F dut hm Jol: rig I nne as pro Lin bra I' ger. Aer Ma ROi ber gen Ch: try the A Mel WOl the Tm Ge< B bru pia: Rol Paf Sta son on! ,ces 'wa he jec I glv p·e~ an< bar tio leg

.. to sis re- be aff • 1: • • Gridiron Decoration trnsts Ball Award Tomorrow Tonight Z-511 ======================\======~~~~=----~=-· --~~ Vol. LXIV., No. 17 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1940 PRICE FIVE CENTS TONIGHT DUTCHMEN FETE TOMORROW'S CLASSIC :Mountebanks Give 'The Road to Rome' ln Hall Tonight Principals in Mounteba;:ks Productio~----~'Union-Hamilton football Contest Bring 260 Guests Harrison Directed Sherwood Classic Opens I 06th Season TJ,e 106th se3.son of dramatics at Union College will open to11ight with a presentation of Robert E SherWo.Jd s classic comedy, \The Road to Rome\ ill the Mounte- banks Theatre, staged by Bertram Harrison, Broadway stage direc- tor who also staged last summer's Mohawk Drama Festival plays. One of the largest casts in r e- cent yea1s on the campus has been assembled to perform this comedy on dictators, war. and love. Ral·ph H. Tiebout plays the role of Han- nibal, the African military leader who led his army 3,000 miles across the seas and mountains to s-ack and burn Rome, but turned away without attacking. Sherwood has built his play about why Hannibal refused to march on Rome. Amytis, played by Viola Pat- terson, is the instrument through which Hannibal is persuaded to leave Rome to crumble from the force of its own weakness rather than that of his army. Boyt Pla~s Dictator Fa'bius, who is too tired from his duties as dictator of Rome to be a husband to Amytis, is played by John T .. Boyt, who has also de- ~igned and executed the settings and most of the costumes, as well as taken charge of the technical problems of ptoduction. Harold J. Limpert plays the role of Mago, brother of Hannibal. High comedy · U, provided by the generals and soldiers: Jacob Van Aernam, Jr., as Scipio, ·william Massee as first guardsman, Arnold Rogers as corpotal, J. Clark AI· berts as Hasdrubel, the cavalry general, Martin J. Caplan and Charles S. Collesano as the infan- try generals, and Allan Korn as the Nubian slave, Thothemus. A winsome pair of lovers are Meta, played by Leah Einstein who won her spurs in the professional theatre playing the child in \Our Town,\ and Varius, played by George Lord. Bruce May plays the blunt, brusque searg.eant. Other parts are played by Harold Hendrickson, Robert D. Wortendyke, Arthur Pastore, Jr., George G. Fawcett, Stanley Green, and Howard Par- sons. \The Road to Rome\ was not only Sherwood's first comedy suc- ,cess, but his first play to deal with 'war. A veteran of the World War he has dealt often with this sub- ject. ' Performances of the play will be given tonight at 8 o'clock and re\ p·eated at the same time tomorrow and Monday nights in the Mounte- banks Theatre. Advance reserva- tions are being received by the Col- lege News Bureau. Calendar of W' eek-End Events T'o-day 8 p. m.-Mountebanks perform- ance. \The Road to Rome\ by Robert Sherwood. Mounte- banks Theatre. 10 p. m.-Glidiron Ball. Jack Teagarden and his orchestra with Hilde Simmons, vocalist. Gymnasium. Tomorrow Recess from Classes. 10 a. m.-Meeting of the alumni representatives of Union Col- lege. Hale House. p m -Alumni representatives luncheon. Hale House. 2 p. m.-Varsity football. Union vs. Hamilton. Mont Pleasant High SchoQl Field. 8 p. m.-Mountebanks perform- anae. \The Road to Rome\ 9 .p. m.-Fr·ate!Dity and club dances. Campus Decorating Prize To Be Given Tomorrow The prize for the best and most original house decorations for the Hamilton game will be awarded to- mOl row, following the decision of Judges Wyatt, Hoadley, and Weeks. The judges will tour the fraternity houses and dormitory groups to- morrow morning, and will probably make their decision public between the halves of the game. The judges will base their deci- sion on the originality and effec- tiveness of the decorations. It ap- pears as if this contest will become a biannual occasion, s-ince the win- ning dormitmy group or fraternity .viii keep the award until the next Union-Hamilton game held in Sche- nectady. At this time, another con- test will be held. Alumni Speakers Boom Grid Spirit Cheers Recall Nitchman; Bronner Lauds Rivalry; Clowe Predicts Victory Union's \Beat Hamilton\ pep Jemonstrations got off to a wildly ;heering start Thursday when hr ee alumni, members of the ad- .ninistration and faculty, took the .>tump in daily a:ssembly invoking students to support the football team to a victory over Hamilton to 'make the season a success.\ President Fox, who presided, told of a ••Jiving demonstration\ 01 the \friendly !'ivalry\ between Union and Hamilton when he spolte at the dedication of the new gym. .1asium in Clinton last week. The 'argest group of alumni ever gath· ered at Hamilton College sang a :1umber of college Alma Maters, but they rose to s.ing only two, their own, and Union's. Coach Nitchman chided the \slackers both undergraduate and alumni, who have failed to support not only the football team but also other -campus activities. After a three minute ovation, Coach Nitch- man acceeded to cheers and calls, and told the demonstrators that \I have learned to love Union and I hope you learn to do the same.\ Dr. Clowe predicted a victory by Union with at least a two touch- down lead. Professor Bronner deprecated the priority of RPI and William riv- alries and stated that \you have been led astt·ay by false prophets,\ for \they do not even speak our language.\ He reaffirmed that Hamilton is Union's re:J.l rival of tradition. TEAGARDEN'S INTERFRATERNITY BALL BAND • ,._.,. ...... ~~~.{'. ''•'• >:,·~~.u~~·;;.-·u:-,-;;,•,• :·}fiE:;::~~,.:, ......... - ... fov ,•;, '-~· . -~·.·,.:: ·~=·~~~$!!';,.._. ;''·~>··::.,.. . ~ -vii -.-:.~- ~:~-v.:-(.-::~:::\-:~~-:~ .. ~::-:-:::-:-:-:---·-· ~-··· . ;: .... :-.:. . ;:~---·· To (a,mpus For Interfraternity Gridiron· BaU First Event in Union Social Calendar to Feature Jack Teagarden; Mounteba,nks Play, Football, and House Parties Complete Weekend The Union social season opens of- ficially tonight when Jack Teagar- ·den raises his baton for the open- ing number of the Gridiron Ball. An international note will strike the !{eynote fo1· the dance wHh the 3ymn!lsium decorated in a ma•nner • to conform with the theme of \A 3alute to the Ame1i~as.\ Albert S =:allan, '41, Ch 3.h man of the Ball ·ommittee announced that advance lid dis .ribution would Indicate that t crowd of at least 260 couples· vou:d attend. Teagarden is ccrr.ing here with 3.n entirely new band with Union ~eing one of the first stops in his Jpening tour of EPstet·n colle\e.• md univet sities. The program, .vhich will incluce many new ana .rig ina! nurr.bet s, will be broadcast Jver radio station WG Y from 11:30 o 12 o' clo.~k At each end of the Gymnasium viii be hung a !a1ge Amelican flag md extending from the balcony .vill .be the tlags of every country in North and South America. The ,>rograms, which will be available 1 t the doors, will follow the pattern .vith .printing in 1 ed and blue ink Jn a whLe background. The band- Jtand wi.l continue the red, white ~nd blue theme. Representatives from both the Jnion football squad and the Rens- Jelaer Polytechnic Institute will be Jresent at the dance, Callan an- 3ounced, the formet receiving theit Jids at the door. The bids extend- Jd to various membets of the Tro~ Jchool are a continuance of the re- ;ently inaugurated policy of friend iness between the two schools and .n reciprocation of .bids given Union nen at the recently held R. P. I. Ball. To Hold Rally ----- ~--------- -of-• Lead Dutchmen! A new innovation at a Union .}ridiron Ball wi:l be an intermis- 3ion rally cesigned to. raise the ;pirits of the football squad by a imely and vociferous exhibition of .he faith of the dancers in a Union rictory over Hamilton on the mor- :ow. The throng will gather on the ;teps of the Gymnasium and will be lead in songs and cheers by DO-CAPTAIN JAOK GUIBERT, '41 members of the cheerleading .squad. Latest news on the Teagarden orchestra indicates that it is fast assuming a prominent place among the new dance bands. \Metronome\ magazine in its last issue rated Jack Teagarden as first among leading new bands, and last week he btoke attendance records in .'l'ewarlt. Teagarden now has many new men in his outfit, having ac- quired several from Van Alexan- dei's band. David Allen remains as Wallace Anderson To Preach Sunday Tidmarsh Will Present All-Wagner Selections At Organ Recital his vocalist with Davie Tough, for- The chapel services this Sunday r;erly with Benny Goodman and will be Jed by the Rev. Wallace W. fommy Dorsey at the drums. Dave Anderson, pastor of the State Street Bowman, formerly of the Bud Free- Congregational Church of Port- man trio will play the piano while land, Maine, who will preach a :!har!ie Teagarden plays trumpet. sermon titled \From Disilludon tc The Gt idiron Ball is only one of Hope.\ in the afternoon Mrs. Dar- the highlights of a weekend of en- othea Clarke, a member of the fac- tertainment for students guests. Fri- ulty <>f the Schenectady Conser va- day evening many fraternities will tory of Music, will join with Dr. hold formal dinner parties and the Elmer A. Tidmarsh in the presenta- Pyramid Club will hold an ali-ne~- tion of an all Wagner concert in ttnl dmner tn Hale ~<Ill~\ On F'n- 1 lin· :.\lt:mot!Ul Chu!Jl'l at 1 \·clock . da~ anti !';atu\lay ntght><. th.\ l:ith I A g!aduatt· of Arnh<·l\t Colltgt. and 16th. thl' !\tountPbanks wtll Pl'l'· the g.,v. !\!1. Antlt·t :;un lt·celn·J St'nt R<.bl'tt Sh<•rwood's vlay \Tht• I hi~ U·l\'tnlty dq~Jt·c· fl IJ!Il tht' l'nloll Hoatl to Ronlt'\ dirt•f'!t\d by !\11 1 Theulogtcal Semtn:u y lll l!J:.!:J. Fot I ~f't~ra-~1. !Jcnrt\\n; nntr:~ P.locll!wn~ '~.t:\'l·ll yt·~t~ heM 1\'t·cl tilt. Ftunk!ttl I ~l!Ot.tl<< I S.tlutdd~ ntght, fn_llcm-1 Sttel'l Ccnglq.;atHmal Chulch Ill I tng tht· football g~mt•, thPtt· wtl! lw 1 ~lan<:hct!tct, ;:-.;, H .. and tllc FatU. a numbPr of parttPB at the varwus Congtegational Chutc.:.h 111 Spting· fr·ater·nity house>•. 1 field. During the summer:,~ of 1934 Jack Teagarden and his arches- and 1937 he was a member of the tra have played at many of the American Seminar in Eutope undet country's leading ballrooms, includ- the leadership of Sherwood Eddy. ing the New York World's Fair, the Blackhawk Res:aurant In Chi- Organ Recital cago; .Meadowb1ook Country Club, 1 Dr. Tidmat:>h',; all \VagnPr pro- Cedar G1·ove; Southland Night Club· g-ram includE'\' and thE' Rayrr.or Ballrcom, Boston; I I. I.ohPngrin \lntrtdudion to 3rd Roosevelt Ho~el,. Jackson~iile. and I Act.\ \\'~rspiel\ (l'relude) at the Steel Pter 1n Atlantic C1t;y. II. \Traume • (Dn·ams) ~a~rons and ~atronesses of the I Lo.hengrin-\Elsa's Dream\ Gnduon Ball wrll be Dr. and Mrs. III. Tnstan and IsuldP-\l'relude Dixon Ryan Fox, Dr. and Mrs. Wil- and Liebestod' liam H. Cowley of Hamilton Col· Die Wallmre - \Ride of the l.ege, Dean and Mrs. Chat·les F. F. Y!lll,yries\ \Magic Fire Music\ Garis, and Mr. and Mrs. Geozge D. IV. 'l'annhauser - \Dich 'l'heure Kellon. H3llc\ (0 Hall of Sonr> By JACK PHILLJ.PS FootbaH fans of Central New York State will be treated to their J.nnual bit of gridir•on spice when .he curtain rises at 2 p. m. tomor- :·ow on one of the oldest and most ~olorful small college tilts in the East. The classic ·battle between Hamilton and Union, will be even !llore colorful this year as the Dutchmen and Continentals will be :elebt·ating the 50th annivers:;,.ry of ~'t'ic'iron telations between the two ·nstitutionl:l when they trot out on Mont Pleasant Field at 2 p. m. for the ·18th con .est in the series. Neithet team has had too suc- cessful a season, the Dutchmen having won their first three games at the expense of Haverford, Mid- dlebury ar!d Hobart, then dropping the next four to Williams, R. P. I., Vetmcnt and Roche.ster; while Hamilton has won but O·ne game from Haverford, and lost to R. P. I., Rochester, Swarthmore, Oberlin and Hoba1 t. However a win for either team tomotTow would make :ts seascn a complete success. A victory over its ancient and respect- ~d rival is the one thing each team ;>oints for all season-Union takes .Jl ide in its 96 to 0 victory over Hamilton in '94 and Hamilton in urn takes as much pride in a 7-0 .vin over Union. Practice Drills Held The Dutchmen will be back at op strength for the contest tomor- ow with Ken Sharpe, sophomore }Uarterback ready to step in the ;ignal calling spot, and Doug Sling- H land, husky sophomore tackle lVai~able to play. Slingerland may JossJbly be m the stat·ting lineup :omorrow. Dick Balch, who has teen little action in the last three ratr.es, due to a broken nose and a !:>ruised hip, is in top shape now and viii be ready to lead interference ·rom his_ blocldng b9.ck .spot. Many _>f the ltnemen have been nursing Jad legs on l!nd off this season, but :hey ,appear to be in good physical }Ondtbon now, and teady to knock Jff the Continentals tomorrow. On Monday afternoon Coach Nitchman broke a precedent of two year's standing when he called 1 heavy practice drill, polishing up the running and passing attack and ;Jreparing a pass defense for the .nuch heralded Hamilton aerial at- :ack. He also held a skull drill on Monday evening in which he went Jver the running and passing plays ;hat the Continentals used against Hobart, R. P. I. and Havetford. He llso stressed methods of coping with the Hamilton 5, 6, 7 and 8 men line formations. Lineup Un.anJlounced He has had the varsity running plays at these various formations during three scrimmage sessions this week and on Tuesday evening held another skull drill to devise plan~ to stop the shifty and speedy runnmg of Leavenworth and Jan- none. and to handle the ·passing that Hamtlton used so effectively against Hobart and Haverford. It i~ IUnH_H P<l that ~t'\:t•J a] ruajo 1 \\'hnnL;flS will h\ nta~:\ 1n t t:P ~ta 1 t- inJ!\ lin.,up again,t !Ianllltun after ln\t Sntu1 cia~·~ di:;\l'l·•dnttng show. 1n1! at Ht,,•hp:-;ft·r·, 1n an attt'lll}Jt tu ho!~tPJ thP dt·ft·n~f· and put .:-orne irJ\\f' and JIOWf'l into tt;t· offf•lL\\t'. ln ndditkn t.. th;s alll'lll!,Jl tu •tt·Pngthen th\ off,·nsc·. :\'itchman hal' dPvi\Pd a nrw off<·nsf' which is based on spreading the line and de- ceptive backfield maneuveurs, in- ~luding a new shift. He has not been pleased with his teams offen- sive showing in the last four games but is confident that the new stuff he has given them this week will bP Pnough to score often fo1 them on Saturday. 'Th<' starting lineup fot the Dutch- mpn tomon ow is still unannounced as we go to press, and it is prob- able that Nitchman will not decide until game time. It is doubtful if there. will be many changes in the backfield and probably Co-Captain (Continued on Page 5)

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1840 Qlon.rnr Member of the l~giate Digest. Fonmm 187i \ . .[ Call.sa Persa Parole Assai\ Associated Collegiate Press and distributot· of the Co•- The official new:;pa.per of the studellt:; of Union College. Published Tues- day and l!'ridays throughout the college year. Edltorinl Rooms, Silliman Hall, Union College Campus. Telephone, Schenectady, 4-0133. Pu bile a Uo n 0 !'f l'~c;;c,~T\\h-e -;U 7 ' a=-=z=-=e 7 tt\'e\\'P=-re~s: 7 s,--;;-;33;-;~-:;-S:::ta:-;te::--<s'-t-., <s;-:c:;;· h-;;e n;::e;::c:;:ta;;-:c;,-;1)-;- .. -!'-:.;;'-. ,,.,- •. , Telephone 4--1141 Entereu at the ::>cheneetady Pu:;t Office as ::>e~:oud Clu:;:; :>Iail ;).la-tttr. Sul.nH:riptiuu !Jl'icc Fiv~ ctwt:s u. copy; $3.,UO u. .r~ar; ddivereU :lilY\\ h~r~ in the L:nited States. Senior Board James E. Tvrinlng, Jr ............................... Editor-in-Chief Chi }1')1 Lodgt·-4:-6~:.!1 Lask!U' Schwartz .. , .....••.............•........ Business Manager Kuppa Xu Hou.e-4-7~31 Robert S. Schulberg .............................. Associate Editor Phi Sigma Delta Huu;;e-U-Ootij Paul W. Becker., ........... ,., ................... Associate Editor :!6 ~. Hubiu:::un :3t.--tJ~7~-;; John D. Phillips ..................................... Sports Editor l'si Cpoilou Huuse-{-~ol~ John P, Lewis ......... ,, ................ , ......... Editor-at-Large ;\·l·i<ldie So.:diull, :\urth CJI!ege ti-~9t-o J. Donald Haigh .............................. Circulation Manager !'hi Vella Theta HuUtie 1·12!1 ---------------- Jll:EPftEIJINT.D rOR NATIONAL. AD\IERTI&ING IJ't' National Advertising Service, Inc. Co/legt Pub/lshet'J Retw.smustiw 420 MADISON AVE. NI!W YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS AHGILIS ' Si\R FftARCIICO --------------------------------- Junior Board Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman Samuel Portnoy Sophomore Board Robert Dake, Robert Bishop, Granger Tripp, Thomas O'Connor. Richard Watanabe, Arthur Cohen, Everett McCarty, Robert Hayner, Harvey Fishbone. Robert Allan, Photographic Editor Stanley Greenstein Justin Perlstein Business Staff Joseph Jaycox Harold Messenger Myron Mills David Rosenblum Issue Editor .......................................... Senior Board Assistants Robert Hayne! We a,sked Bonnie up for the In- terfraternity Ball way :back in July. She was pretty offish at first. She'd never even heard of Union! And what was more, last spr•ing she'd been invited to houseparties at Wi-l- liams, at Princeton, at Cornell, and goodness only !mows how many other swell colleges. Wouldn't she probably be asked up again this fall? SUI e, why should she go to a Union prom? But we liked Bonnie. 3o we talked her into corning up to the Interfraternity Ball. Most of her letters during the past few weeks seemed a little bit· ter, though. She sounded as though ,;he would never forgive hersel·f tm accepting this Union bid. We wete waiting for that telegram which 1va.s due to ar·rive any day, a shot t, apologetic wire saying that her aunt had died', and that sbe would- n't be allowed to enter the socia-l 1vhirl this fall. But Novembet· 15th came, and no wire! We met her at the station on Fri- day afternoon. Oh, it was swell see· ing Bonnie again. All but that light in her eyes. It didn't seem to be .here anymore, the way it had aL summer. But after all, we knew that she was probably hoping ·at ;hat ver·y moment that some impos- ,;ible Aladdin would come along and .vhisk her down to Princeton, or 1long the line to Cornell. We tool..: Bonnie over to the house, introduced her to some o! the bo).S, and then drove her over 1s much of the campus and the town as we had time for. We doubled up with two other couples :or dinner, and after a little while, went up to the gym for the Ball :\.nd Jack Teagarden was swell. The iance was giving Bonnie everything she'd ever had at Princeton, or at Yale, or at Pennsylvania. And the rally held during the dance began to bring back into Bonnie's eyes that sparkle which had been miss- ing at the station. and much later took her back, and put her to ·bed, an insanely ha,ppy little girl. She left after lunch on Sunday, that sp&rkle in ·her eyes dancing as never before. We began to get let- ters from her at the rate of four a week. She had had a wonderful time. And it wasn't because we -had asked her. There was nothing spe- cial about us that would make a girl daffy. And she wanted to come up for the Junior Pr·om in May. She wanted to come up just as often as we would ask her. It was :mr fault proba·bly, that she wanted to come back. But H wasn't us that she wanted to come back for. It was what we had here that attract- ed her. Union had given her that wonderful time. ---·0--- NEW YORK EXCURSION The Thanksgiving excursion to New York over the New York Cen- tral will be 1 un again t-his year. Tickets will be $5.10 round trip It is necessary to have 15 to se- ~ure the special rate and 30 for a >pecia;] car. Please have yam· money in to .Solomon Blechman, '42 5 M. S. N.C. by Monday. ( ... ._ ........ 1Ba I SAMMOYKAY'E' l and his \SWING AND SWAY\ I orchestra, in the beautiful CENTURY ROOM l Dinner from $2. No Cover Chcrge. Cover charge at supper after 10 P. M. 75~ weekdays; $1.50 Soh. Thomas O'Connor Friday, Novembet· 15, 1940 \UNION'S WEEK-END\- \Union's week-end\ is but a few short hours away. :;\Iuch effort has been expended in preparing \our\ week-end that it might be perfect in eve1·y detail and, as has been the cus- tom, it behooves us to put the finishing touches on the elab- orate preparation with the editorial welcome. During the game on Saturday, Bonnie got hoarse. She cheered for every player, for every play. She was having a wonder-ful tirr:e. Her eyes were open, too, and we knew she wasn't jus~ imagining that the two teams before her were Yale and Princetcn. Bonnie was happy when we won, too. She sang and 1 cheered along with everyone else. l l • Special Tea Dance every Saturday 5 to 6 P. M. No Cover Charge. [o Dl niTfiED 0 R E t \NEW YORI\'S BEST LOCATED HOTEL\ 2000 large, comfortable outside rooms. There is little room for ol'iginality in a \welcome.\ In fact, without doubt many of om· week-end guests have read our welcomes of the past and to them we may sound repeti- tious. Running this risk, The Concordiensis, for the college, sincerely welcomes all. The house dances Saturday night were perfect. We wandered around among live of the on-campus houses. Bonnie couldn't have im- agined a -better evening. Later, we took her down town with a crowd, t SPECIAL STUDENTS' RATES MARTIN SWEENY, President ... RIGHT AT GRAt~D CENTRAL tERI\\INA& '- .. ...._~.-~ To the fairest; may vou enjoy your visit to Union's cam- pus and may your stay with us be a pleasant one. To our fi·iendly rivals; may you again prove yourselves good losers as you have so often in the past. To om· friends and alumni; may our \Union week-end\ equal and perhaps exceed those to which you have become accustomed in your long association with the Sons of Minerva. The annual game between traditional rivals always brings back to the campus individuals who wander about aimlessly looking for something staple in the midst of their umealized anticipations and the unexpected actualities. Perhaps such vagaries are actually fundamental to wholehearted enjoy- ment and partiCipation. Perhaps such people have the most fun. despite their bewilderment. Incidentally, this is Union's show and far be it from us to fail to welcome Union men to the festivities. And as to our previous welcomes, let us remind you that it will be through your efforts that our pt·edictions will be proven realities. Union's week-end will be a success only through your co- operation. We have done our time-worn duty and editorially welcomed \the fairest\ our rivals and friends, but you alone can make this welcome deepiy appreciated. THE GOOD FIGHT \The tumult and the shouting dies. The captains and the Kings depart\ but still remains the most important factor, the spidt. The spirit we praise is that of the Union football squad which faced with the disadvantage of emulating the achievements of the team which went before, gave all it had and did the best it could. Tme they were not the undefeated team of the previous year but in the midst of their defeats they exhibited some- thing the team which always wins does not always have an opportunity to show, courage and sportsmanship in adver- sity. The tradition of Union athletic teams has been carried on in the past by teams which have shown a greater string of victories but rarely by a team which has shown more fighting spirit and willingness to sacrifice than the squad of 1940. As representatives of the Union student body this team has perpetuated the traditions of those Union men who have g-one before in their spirit and service to the school. As their representatives, the student body may well be proud of them. • .. • 414 State St. Featuring: GOOD FOOD. and DRINKS 2 BARS 2 DINING ROOMS UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE NORTH WING WASHBURN HALL FOR THE INTERFRATERNITY GRIDIRON BALL Buy your date a dance favor · • College seal jewelry • Felt college banners • Novelty felt animals • Kitty Co-eds COMPLETE CHRISTMAS CARD ASSORTMENT ON DISPLAY WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. VACATION ECONOMY: Send your Luggage home anti back by handy • . . • RAILWAY EXPRESS! Right from college direct to your own front door and vice versa, without extra charge, in all cities and principal towns. And all you do is phone RAILWAY EXPRESS. We·ll call for your trunks, bags and bundles. A way they'll go at passenger train speed, and be delivered straight to the street address. The rates are low, and you can send \collect you know, by RAILWAY EXPRESS, same as college laundry goes. Yes, it is a very popular service. So when you're packed, strapped and locked, j11st phone us and take your train with peace of mind. !'OH. WAtL & LlBKitTY STREETS PHOSE .J.;;()J2 !II•;POT (Jii.FH'E: N. '1.'. l', STA'l'IOX l'HOXE 6·23un S('HEXE(\I'.Ul\\, :'<. Y. RAILWA SS NATION-WID·E RAIL-AIR SERVICE=====~~ CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE AVERY BEERS - Professor Bronner's House ? me from • 1 Where do Bell telephones co • the thousands of ? '\Vho purchase~ b the Bell SysteJIJ. • 2 • products neede y make tele- ? What distri~ntor c;~ly available • 3. phone supphes qu ~ almost anywhere 1 ffices ? l h ne centra o 4 W ho installs te ep 0 • El ectric Western . Western ' - The answers are. . W tern Electnc. W Electnc, es h Electric, esternh answers, perhaps, but t e Monotonous?- t e job, never! d needs of the telephone FiUino- tbe day to ay .voeet and beat o 1 . them to .,.. companies-he pmg . flood., storm-has · es caused by hre, emergencl . \ . k\ in 58 years. never lost lts klc . ntributes its share So Western Electnc ~o hone service t}le d making your te ep . towar d. t econonucal. world's best an mos = l 11 hol ter Mr: Mr: anc be I the Bel mo Cla ter kir An gia Gil Ve1 SOl: I hol dai ch~ lin ch~ I Th· lar Ru Ski sib Ma Sc< ma Ru Sin Syr Col Gil Ne St. cor lin, en; eri Vir Scl Ell '] a Mt enl Do Co Do Be Di Sk Sa: Ve Sn co1 Rc Be VI-i. bro ba HE SOl sc: ne' me Ja' an Sa te~ Sy ep ch. l thl loc E-.. Jo. Ga KE Sc lej ior I ho wi of I th· Co N. vii (

. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1840 Page Three Union Welcomes 260 Guests to Campus for GFidiron Ball and Houseparties I Alpha Delta Phi June Peny Ardsley - on - Hudson; Shirley, Mt. Holyoke College; Beu-' Delmar, N. Y.; Patrwin Stevens, Alpha Delta Phi fraternity will Elizabeth Peabody, State College lah Rosen, Barnard; Rosalyn Sie- Southington, Conn.; Adrienne Sam- hold a formal dance at their chap- for Teachers; Kay Sykes, Russell gel, Schenectady. met, New Haven, Conn: Bett~· ter house on Saturday evening. Sage C01lege; Bea Landy, Kathe- Kappa Sigma Clougb! Montc:tair, N. J.; Margaret Mrs. Francis F. Gregory, Mr. and rine Gibbs College; Dorothy Wike, K . s· f t 't . 11 h ld Franklmg, Sk1dmore College; ::v.!ar- Mrs. Frederic A. Wyatt, and Mr. Endicott; Mary Watson, Saugei:- appa Igma · ra erm Y _wi· ~ jorie Creifelds, Delmar, N.Y.; Shir- and Mrs. C. Eugene Sunderlin wiH ties; Ruth Law, Troy; Evelyn a ~orma:l dance Saturday night ;nth ley Wendell, Skidmore College; be chaperones. Stole, Hanover, N. J.; LuciHe Fer- M1.. and Mrs. Rudolf Schaefel, o_f Jean Perry, Schenectady, and Je&n Included among the guests. for guson, Cambridge, N. Y.; Virginia. Ar_liz;.gton, ~· J., and Mr. and ~rs. Weave1·, Mt. Holyoke College. the week-end will be Janet Walker, Smith, Skidmore CoUege, and Lllcr W-1lham Btazell, of Schenectad~. as The Misses :boris Merz, Skidmore Bennington; Marion Britton, Skid- Laird of Norfolk, Va. chaperones. . College; Dorothy Bullare, Univet- more; Nancy Hughes, Vassar; Include~ amon_?' the Kappa Sigma sity of Vermont; Martha Egloff, Clara Perkins, Albany; Bettie Car- Delta Upsilon guests axe Mane _Hav? 1 '• Bloom- New Haven, Conn.; Doxi·e Ann ter, Scarsdale; Mary Ellen Coy- Delta Upsilon fraternity will h_old field, N. ~-; Al~arie HI~key, Rus- Dingman. Ho-Ho-Kus, N. J.; Kath- kirkendall, Mamaroneck; Elizabeth a _house dance on Saturday evemng sel~. Sage, _Balba;.a_. Waite, Mont- yrn Luca:s, Mary Baldwin College: Andrews, New York City; Geor- With Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Lash~r~clau, N.J., Mar~ot.le Adams,\ Mt.' Posephine Murdock, Scarbough giana Black, New Haven; Jane an~ Mr. and Mr::. H. B. Marvm Holyoke Colle,ge, Jane. Mo,h:': School; Jane Lang, Al·bany State Gildersleeve. Kingston; Eleanor\ actmg as chaperones. State Teachers . College· Audt e~ Teacher':; College; Erdine Chaffee, Venear, Altamont; and Peter Davi-1 Gue~ts at the dance will ~nclude Druhmel, Wood·ridge,. N. J.; Con~ Ceilltenary Junior College. son, Skidmore. the M1sses Mary Folsom, Sludmore stance Sponable, Nelhston, N. _Y., The Misses Marjorie Bird, Cen- Beta. Theta Pi 'College; Linda Beck, St. Luke's Eleanore Allen! New Yo~k City; tenary Junior College; Alice Lyon. Hospital, New York City; Catbe- Dorothy Mattlmore, Brl~geport, Skidmore College: Mary Allen Retl- Beta Theta Pi fraternity will rine SprEl'ker, Wells College; Joyce Conn.; Audrey L~wis, Sktdmorl:'; field, Edgewood Park, N. Y.; Dot hold a dinner par,ty and closed Mah~ney, Sc?enectady; Margaret Hele;n Heck, Sk1d~ore; . Bu~n~· Wilcox, S chen ectad y; Cynthia dance on Saturday evening at the Hamilton, Skidmore College; Con- Swam, Russell_ Sage, Sail:, G1a;v, Wight, Glen Ridge, N. J.; Betty chapter house. Mr. and Mrs. Rol- nie Connelly, Schenectady; Jean Green Mt. Jumm College; Annette Youno- Glens Falls· Shirle. June lin L. Twining of Albany will Davis, Skidmore College; Pryl McKay, Edgewood Park Colle~e; Black~·Gramby, Con~. J chaperone. Howard, Skidmore College; Bar- Sally Pereroux, Russell Sage; Juliet Included in the guests of Beta bara Bailey, M<lntclair, N. J.; Jane Gifford, Russell Sage; Augusta ~hi _Sigma Delta . Theta Pi fraternity are Betty Col- Cease, Stanleigh Junior Col.Jege; Johnson, Russell Sage. The Ph1 Stgma Del~a f_,·~te.rmt~· lard, Skidmore; Anne Richards, Constance Miller Howard Semi-! Ph' D It Th t w1ll hold a post-mterf~atermt~ fm- Russel! Sage; Marian Duncanson, · · ' . . I e a e a mal at the Shaker· R1dge Country Skidmore; Ruth Lindsay, Univer- nary; ~arJone Cluley, Skidmore Phi Delta Theta frate.·nity will Club in Loudonville, N. Y., on Sat- College, Jena Buckland, Russell] hold a house dance on Saturday urday evening with Mr. and Mrs. ::~r;f ~~~~=st~~a~~~~·~a~~~:~et~ Sage; Ann Cutler, Garland School; evening with Dean and Mrs. Frederic Schmidt, Dr. and Mrs. Scott, Russell Sage; Norma White- Lou Burton, Beacon, N. Y.; Dor?- Charles F. Garis and Mrs. A. S. Fay Isaac Shapiro Dr. and Mrs. Allan man, Middlebury; Shirley F1eck, thy Lang, Ruseell Sal?e; Marylo~s acting as chaperones. A. Scott, and Dr. and Mrs. William S~ott, Ho':'l'ard Semmary; Lms Guests at the dance will include Gould acti'ng as chaperones. Rwsell Sage; Evelyn Farnam, D Sk d c 11 R Ixon, 1 more 0 ege; 0 • se the Misses Alice Purcell, Alban'· Guects at the for'mal wi'Il 1'nclude Simmons College; Patricia Benton, R d 11 s h t d R th w t J ~ · 0 we • c enec a y; u . a.r e, State Teachers; Miriam Hug:hes, the M 1 'oses Al·r'ce Cohen, Ru~sell Syracuse University; Marie O'Keefe, G h N y d R th D k ~ - ~ - Colby; Jane Oakley, Catherine os en, · \ an u Immlc ' Plattsburg Normal; Colleen Spen- Sag.e College; Eleanor Greenglass. Gibbs School; Margaret Van Fleet, Schenectady. cer, Skidmore College; Betty Cook, State College; Julia Goldman, Rus- New York University; Jean Allen, Kappa Alpha Russell Sage College; Jean Baker, sell Sage; Bernice Finklestein, St. Lawrence; Marie Loveless, Wis- Kappa Alpha fraternity will holci Skidmore College; ~th.~rini! ~ta_f- Roches~er University; Annette K?-P- consin University; Dorothy O'Lough- a house dance on Saturday evening ford, Plattsburg Noxma · Batbara: Jan. M1lcired Elley School; Elame lin, Connecticut College for Worn- with Mrs. Anthony Hoadle. a.nd Ann Foote, Ballsto';, N. Y.; Joyce 1 !Continued on Page 6) en; Frances Emerson, Colby; Cath- Mrs. Rue Rice Henyan ch;'peron- ~ri_Dstrong, Watervliet, ~· Y.; Mar-l rr;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ erine Zeh, University of Vermont; ing. JOrle Morse, LaSalle Ju~uor College; I Virgin-ia Carman, Mildred EIJey Guests at the dance will include Rachael Fletcher.. Skidmore Col- School; Elsie Bromeson, Mildred the Misses Wanda 0. Walton, Pur- lege,_ Margaret Kmg •. · yas~a:· .~?!- Elley School. celville, s. c.; Joan Brokaw, Skid- lege, Gertrude Ostern.wdL, _Sktd· 1 Chi Plili I more CoHege; Men·ilan Hedges, more College, Jea~e_tte B17mr:;so_n .. B '11 N y . v· · · d Schenectady; Patnc1a White. JY.il- The Chi Psi fratern!·t,. will hold· ronx. VI e, . ., Irgima Floy , d d Ell C 11 J I h \ J re ey o ege · oan ync · a house dance Saturday n.ight. Boston. Mass.; Ann Farley, Ch.a:p- B M C ll '. H 1 ,. H· d. Music will be supplied by Irv Ros-l paqua; Agnes Johnson, Mount ryn ~~tti ~d eg~ J _e.l \I·~; -: enholz and his band. Mr. and Mrs .. Holyoke College; Nancy Coates, ~~~rte, Sch':;ne~tad ... Jea~ r·u~-~~;! Donald Thomson of Bridgeport i RusselJ Sage ColJege; Margaret W lls, C 11 ~d. H, ,.,1 J • · 'I St b R 11 Sa . K th · e o ege, an Olgu , U< a{, Conn .. Will act as chaperones. rau • usse ge_. a enne w t . I' t N y The guests include the Misses Jones, New York City; Georgia a etv 1 e ' · · 1 · Ada Gl F 11 L 'II M t Phi Gamma Delta I Dorothy Burke, Parsons School; I . ms, ens a s; uc1 e . on- Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 Betty Dunkle, Parsons School; Alice, cr~eff, Rye, N. Y.; _Mary Walters, Chape_rones for the h?use dance. Dilli-etin, Skidmore; Mardi Whalen,: Wn;n.etk~, Ill.; Elizabeth Lasell, to be g1ven Saturday mght at the 1 . Skidmore; Virginia Soper, Russell! Whltmsvllle, Mass.; Jean Thomp- Phi Gamma Delta frater_nity will Sage; Ann Griswold, Skidmore; 1 son, Ha.r·tford, Conn.; Barbara ~ol- be Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Hei«:cr Mr. ~~~~~~;;~~~;;~;;;~~~ Vera Engelhardt, Wheaton; Carel' let. Skidmore College; Katherme and Mrs. James Forbe;,, ~lr. and r, Sneed Skidmore· Marilyn Pres-~ 1 Platt, Vassar College; Barbara Pot- Mrs. W. R. Gilmore, and Jl'fr. an1: cott. North Creek, N. Y.; Dorothy t~r, Smith College, and Anne Scheff- Mrs. K. W. Cermak. Rose, Skidmore; Katchen Redfield, hne, Wells College. I Guests at t_he danc7 wili in- Bennett Junior College; Sue Beck-: Kappa Nu . elude the Misses . L<?d Cotton, 'W-ith, Hartfot·d, Conn.; Faith Grum- 1 K N f t 't . 11 h ld Granby, Conn.; MarJOI'l~ Denman. . : appa u ra erm y WI o a brecht, Merchantville, N. J.; Bar- I dance at the chapter house on Sat- bara Sope~·· Russell Sa~e; E~eanor 1 urda:,r night, and a tea dance on Hedy, Skidmore; Gloria. Dlc~en-~ Sunday afternoon. Chaperones will son, Schenectady;. Be~ty Draisey, be Dr. and Mrs. Samuel Feuer, of Schenectady; Phyllis Lm~say, Sc~e- Schenectady, and Mr. and Mrs.! nectady; Alma Goldsm1dt: Sktd-~ Irving Nellick of TJOy. more; Helen Chandler, Skrdmore; Guests of Kappa Nu fraternity Jane Mul'phy, Fort Edward, N. Y., will include the Misses Florence F 0 R and Mrs. Robert Callender. Russell Guttchen, Skidmore; Shirley Gold, ArrOW Sh.lrfs Sage. Schenectady; Adele Lazarus, Rus-1' WALKER'S PHARMACY Prescriptions - Drugs Chemicals 503 STATE ST. -- -- -- -~ --·----- -- ~---------- SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR <!.tnurnrbi.rusiu ~ ~~ jj§ GRllHOUND'S c&~lfJ , , $ill oj{!J!;Z ~~~* a are priced so urkey the Greyhound :£ ~xtra spending • Tickets bom.e ~e:e with a pocketiullpack your bag-then r ou'll get u• • bill of fares- 1 loWneyy! Check overhthinsext bUS out of town Round-Trip mo , to t e don't walk, ru Round-Trip $ 7.05 5.70 --- 6.15 2.35 4.05 \0.10 5.85 6.qs 6.25 2.20 2.65 4.15 4.00 \4.50 8.95 Delta Chi sell Sage; Bemice Applebaum, --;;;;;;:;;;;;;;:;;;;:;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;j Delta Chi .fraternity will hold a I Skidmore; Ruth Goldman, Skid-, r; tea dance, wrth Professor and Mrs·. I more; Evelyn Robbins, State' Sylvester Haefner and Mrs. Jos-1 Teachers' College; Chat·lotte Grot-! eph Coppola, of Schenectady, a:s I sky. Montclair State Tecahers' Col- 1 -----·-- SILVER DINER chaperones: . . ! lege; Betty Mann, Skidmore; Aud-j Erie Boulevard Delta Cb1 fratet·mty Will have as 1 rey Poneman Jamaica· Beverly I Quality Food - Always Oper, their guests the Misses Edith Hal-. Preston Stat~ Teacher'~ College· 0 S f lock, Slt.idmore; .Shirley Doak, Dolores' Gangberg. Schenectady; I ne tep rorr State Stree1 Evells; Roberta Ketl, ~ch_enectady; Corrine Kramer, Skidmore; Anne I I Joan Murtagh, Mechamcvrlle; Clara Magram Schenectady· Madeline' ' Gatta, Schenectady; Theda Me-~ Fellerm~n. Russell S~ge; Estelle I gmlllllll111111111illllllllllllllllllllllllllg i Kee, Schenectad~; Mary Neverman, Nathanson, State Teacher's College; :: lfs the ::: Schenectady; Allee Braun, Welles-, Beatdce Hirsch State Teacher's' = = !ey; Ida Beach. Ballston Spa; Mar- j College; Marge~y Weinberg, AI- § KELLY FACTORY § wn Blanch, Ballston Spa. 1 bany; Elaine Schnier. Albany; Min- :: f th B t Chaperone:e::: ~: Delta Phi I nie Horowitz, Schenectady; Ellen I§ in S~ar+e Cl~~hes ==§ !, house dance on Saturday evening' :: • will be Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Smith opp. old armory open evenings ;: At Prtces ;: I ofG~~~~n~{ 1 ~i:t:-d;~ce will include 1 £nqub:r :Qltrn'n ~l!op :~You Can Afford to Pay~! the Misses Jo Schwab, Skidmore I I:: F f · A fh t• 11 ::I College; Doris McNulty, Lakeland, Haberdashery \as you like it\ :: ea urmg U en u:a y ::I N. J.; Winifred Webster, Glovers- i04 ALBANY ST. :: Styled University Clothes ::; ville; Fran Riani, Keyesville, N.Y.; 1 :: i: 1 -;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::; I = = I F1LL UP ON GAS at SCOTTY'S Super-Service Gas - Oil - Lubrication Radios - BaHeries - Tires Accessories Cor. NOTT TERRACE and LIBERTY Call Ball and BaU Will Call I :~ ~~ 1: =I I t I~ ~~ ~ ~I I Products for :etter Quality I i i i ~ ~ . Cre•z::~_g;:,~ ~~~ucts ~=-~ ~== PHONE 4-3 121 I~ ~ § §I -§ § ! KELLY ~~ §CLOTHES§ General Ice Cream Corp. ~- INC. ~- 621 River St., Troy §z Blocks North of Hoosick St.§ PHONE 6-3456 ~ lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli llllllltffi G·E UmjJta hew.s records of inestimable value in the constant search for new ways to build more efficient SIJP£R. STREAMLINING I N this modern age practically every means of transportation is streamlined- automobiles, airplanes, trains, and even baby carriages. The closest approach to prrfect ~treamlining, however, is probably not found in any one of the foregoing but in a Grneral ElC'ctric steam turbine, where nozzles must be designed to direct steam at the buckets at just the right angle. (i-E engineers have streamlined turbine noz- zles to a poiut where they absorb less than two per cent of the velocity energy of steam traveling through them. vVorking with models, engineers about 20 years ago found they could feel low-pressure spots in an air stream blown through nozzle sections. Liter- ally and figuratively they were \putting thl.\' finger\ on streamlining deficiencies. Now, in a special laboratory, air is forced through model nozzles at a terrific speed (more than 700 miles an hour) while mechanical \fingers\ feel for points of eddy or friction loss, and an automatic machine records the results. These \streamline\ tests, conducted by young student enginel'rs \on Test\ under the direction of experienced engineers, give turbines. SIX VOICES P EOPLE who have qualms about broad- casting probably would have passed right \ut if they had been in the shoes of George A. :.\lead, K Y. State Commander of the American Legion, when he broadcasted re- cently from General Electric's television studios at Schenectady, N. Y. For the first time in history a voice wa> carried over every practical means of voice communication. Mead's talk, in addition to going out on the ultra-short-wave band at'- companying the picture on television, was simultaneously carried by \\'GY on long-wave radio, WGEO on short-wave, \\'2XOY on frequmt'y modulation, and by light beam and m·dinary telephone. In all, six distinct frl.\'quency bi!nds carried his words to the four corners of the earth. Directors of this unusual broadcast were John Sheehan, Union, '25, manager of G-E short- wave broadcasting, and J. G. T. Gilmour, t:nion, '27, program manager of G.E.'s tele- vision station, W2XB. GENERALfj ELECTBI~

Page Four SPORT SLANTS \ B~· ,JOHN D. PHILLIPS The Dutchmen against the Conti- nentals-Union vs. Hamilton ... for 50 years now these words have been enough to rouse the alumni and undergr actuates of both insti- tutions to a fever pitch ... enough to rai~e their interest and spirit to I the breaking point. Thi:; year is no 1 1 exception as the ~arne wave of en- thusiasm sweeps both campuses and all eye:;, ears and thoughts are turn- ed to the 48th gl'idiron contest be-J tween the two colleges on thr Mont Plea~anl High School Field tomor- I t·ow acfternoon at 2 p. m. I The game tomorrow i<l especially: important ati it mark:; a half cen- I tury of friendly relations between I these venera:ble Mohawk VaHey col· leges, a rivalry which dates bacl> I to October 25, 1890, when fourteen Union College students drove their horse a.nd buggies up the valley to I Clinton. And as a. result of this 1 venture into the wilderness, there 1 has developed one of the oldest and longest colorful small college rival- ries in the East-unsurpassed in friendliness and thrills. A handful of spectators gather·ed that day to witness thE' first meeting of the Dutchmen and thP Continentalo;, 1 and when darknes~ clothPd the . field th£> sC'nt\ wag Union 26, Ha·m- • ilton 10. ThP friPndly. 'hut R~~rPS· 1 ~ive spirit. which marks this an- nual clas~ic. malut•·d rapidly from 1 that initial rnntP~t. a\ thP t'PC'orrl\' show the• Continf'ntal.~ ttavel!Pd t.n' SehenectaJ\ to meet th<' Dutrhnwn 1 again in -~~~0. :1·nd in J.~~~ on ' Union's Libtary Field. These games 1 t·Continupd to Column 3) ' The \Gridiron\ will be distributed to Students tomorrow morning I I :00 to 12 noon in Silliman Hall. EACH STUDENT must get his own copy and show both his Athletic ticket and Hamilton Game ad- mission ticket. IN OUR COCKTAIL LOUNGE ~ ,.~r v tv>:'\'1\ J E.A(ep• Me:\ de-l) Car.c \O Sa•crday 5 st'\Pf'\'1 Wdliams Sw!'l\)et'\t;; 9KM, RICHARD J. HIXSON, '32, MGR. Schenectady Amsterdam Road at 9-Mile Bridge Compliments BRANDHORST PHARMACY Brandhorsfs Home Made Ice Cream Delicious, Refreshing and Nutritious \On the Corner\ UNION ST. and GILLESPIE L. H. Brandhorst L. E. Brandhorst THE CONCORDlENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1840 •'. '. HAMILTON MEN: Some of the leaders who will direct game against Union in 50th game-and a \Union-Hamilton\ founder of the gridiron sport at Hamilton College. Right to left, bottom: Novel- ist Samuel Hopkins Adams (\It Happened One Night,\ etc.) who attende-d both Union College and Hamilton College where he is con- sidered one of the folUiders of football, is giving a final pep talk to Armand Hoch, guard; Captain Pete Hatch, center; and Nelson Dale, Jr., back. That ball carrier is Ralph Leavenworth, husky halfback who nearly stopped Hammerstrom last year and this year's leading grolUid-gainl\r for the Continentals. Top: Hamilton's enlarged coach- ing staff: ,John C. Meyerholz. Princeton's famous end, now fresh- man coach; Head Coach Arthur R. Winters, and Backfield Coach Mox A. '\''\'her. Watch MPlzar Richards, tackle, in Hamilton's linP- play today. --------- •Continued fl'Om Column 11 set a precedent which has remained i unbroken with the exception of a i two year interval and at the same. UNION-HAMILTON RECORDS time served as a tradition and riv-j Union ali·~· which is dear to Hamilton and I 19 •••••... , . Haverford 6 Unron men, young and old. 13 . , ...• , , .. Hobart . . . . . o Behind this tradition. there is 13 . , ........ Middlebur·y 6 something more than an ordinary 7 .••.•..... Ver·mont ........... 19 football rivalry, or a desite to win: 0 ....... , .. R. P. I. ........ . the game. This rivalry iB blessed 6 ...... , .. , vVilliams with a feeling of friendliness, hon- 1 6 .......... Rochester est and true friendship. For thE> 1 _ day that these coJieges meet on the ' 64 gridiron. Hamilton and Union men ! are one, no matter where the g-ame 1 is played. College affiliations are 1 13 forgotten, and a spil·it of brothetli· '13 ness prevails. It is cnly at a few i 12 I other college:; that such a spirit · 7 prevails possibly between Yale and 6 Hat-vard. At my and Navy and Wil- '13 Iiams and Amherst. Hamilton .R. P. I. .Hobart ..... Oberlin .......... , . .. Rochester ........ . ... SwarthmorE> . Haverford . 12 21 40 104 Union Downs Hamilton In Mud~J890; Players Recall Impressing Game By GRANGER TRIPI' ed, Mr. Clute reported, the Union men prevented the Hamilton con- tingent from lining up properly on defense. Number ::ignals had not come into thei·r own in 1890, and a va- riety of confusing slogans were used to denote the next .play. \Get out of the mud,\ espescial:l~· appro- priate for the sJ.ime in which the game was played, denoted one of the more effective play:;. When Hamilton College's Con- tinentals meet Union's Dutchmen on the Mont Pleasant field tom.or·- row for the fiftieth anniversary game in this traditional series, cam- pus historians may harl> back to :1!890, when the first Hami-lton- Union game was played In a sea of mud. Hi~torian:; or ·not, Union men as a group wiH have reason -to hope that the outcome of the 1890 game will be repeated in the 1940 con- test, for Union trounced their then- new rivals to the tune of 26-10. Union had no coach in 1890, and All accounts of the 1890 mud- most of the team's plays were de- fest seem to agree that it was a vised by the eleven fir:;t stringers \wha:le of a game.\ John L. Van and the five substitutes they Valkenburgh, '93, left guard for usua:llr had. Any one of the line- the Dutchmen, wrote The Concor:d- men except the center might be iensis some years ago to the effect. called upon to carry the ball, ac- that the rain and mud were the cording to Quarter.back Clute. They worst he had· seen in eight years would pull out of line and take the of play. ball from the quarter-back, who No gentle social gathering was always received it from center. this fl·rst Union-Hamilton game, ac-1 The Concordiensis of 1890 re- cording to Br,ay.ton BaJbcock, '93,\ ported that the first touchdown who ·played his fiTst game a·t right was scored for Union on a \pretty end that day. Mr. Babcock t·ecalls ,play by Clute and Daley.\ Hamil- that his ·opponent. becoming anger- ton scored next, after an \unfor- ed when he was consistently block- tunate fumble by one of the Union ed out of play, threw a nasty-look- men\ had given them .possession lng punch in Mr. Babcock's direc- of the ball near their own. goa·! tion. The punch missed its mark, line. but the referee frowned on such The Concordiensis concluded that activities and invited the Hami·lton \In saying that Daley, Babcock, end to leave the game. and Briggs played the best game Union used a fast moving, ru~h- for Union, no one is to think for a ing style of attack to ,;mother the moment that the others did' not HamiHon defense, according to play well, for· everybody played Quarterback George Clute, '90. By very well, blocking and tackling in I calling the signals for the next 1 good form. and Clute's passi·ng was play as soon as the bail was down- 1 excellent.\ ~~~~~~~~~---~----~-~-- Featuring This Week JACK TEAGARDEN'S RECORDINGS \AUNT HAGAR'S BLUES\-35206 \RED WING\-35450 on Columbia Records CASSEDY•s \ 460 STATE STREET Near Proctor's JAMES RESTAURANT 426 STATE STREET We Cal-er to Union Students and Their Guests v,·e don't wish to convey the im- 61 · 105 Spruce Up for the Weekend pression that the outcome of this ---- annual classic is of litti~ impot- 1 So, we don't even rlue climb out tance. because a victory over Union I on any limb but ·· tli go on record I would make any Hamilton season sayin~ the tear.· · :u·e evenly match- ' a succes;;;, and in turn. a victory ed, possibly as · ven as any in the 1 A free haircut to the Union man making the first touchdown against Hamilton 1 ovet H>~.milton would balance any series on tre eve of this annual I' Dutchman season. One of the most classic. Rady Union? Ready Ham-, impressive f<'atm·es of this upstate: ilton? . . . .Play Ball! And we'll! classic is the uselessness of stud~- 1 leave it to you to jud~e whether or in~ charts, figures, pr·evious r·ecords not Hamilton is th£> favorite for its etc. in predicting thP outcomE> of 18th win in this serie.~. m· t.:nion can: the gan1e. win it~ 21st. ACME BARBER SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS A PLEASURE 509 UNION ST. PHONE 4-4525 Union Men and Guests • • • • MAKE YOUR WEEKEND PERFECT COME TO TONY'S G 0 0 D D R I N K S a n d G 0 OD SA N D W I C H E S 517 Union Street • • • .. • .. • .. - • Phone 3-9083 o~ In Jack Nor.r call been the wee!• that Ed l Ab line end Dou1 trau left sibly edge are Ste\1 at r ski Nitc dy : wee I Dutt him. Dim H: tean that the tine Uni< t:av• bloo The pro! fast ceiv end. nex1 Ari1 pia) hea· tac1 the the is Arn role be Hat mel be: c har aga RaJ non bac Wit is: .pia; :,.ea sigl WOl to the ro\1 wil' Wh> bac OJ

(); on •n- on ne ra- ~re iet ro- :he of ,nd de- ers 1ey ne- be ac- b.ey the vho re- >wn ~tty mil- for- 1i0n ;;ion ;oal that ock, a me Jr a not tyed g in 'h·a::s 525 - - - THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1940 Page Five UNION Vs. HAMILTON IN 48th AUNUAL CLASSIC Dutchmen Play Host To Hamilton In 50th Anniversary Of Rivalry Rivals Evenly Matched on Eve of Classic; Union at Top Strength, Ba~lch to Start <Cantinued from Page 1) Jack Vannier, Dick Balch, George after hole to keep Hammerstrom Norris and Ed Enstice wiJ.l get the from breaking loose. As for Leav- call at the kickoff. Nitchman has: enwoz t·h, he is another ·brHlit!.nt run- been grooming big Lee Sherman in· ner, and the boy who kept the pig- the fullback spot ·for the past few skin Hying around the Union back- weeks, and there is the possibility field in the last period last year, as that he will get the call there over well as keeping the Union fans on Ed Eustice. the edge of their seats. Petronnio is the boy who makes those long About the only sure thing in the runs of Leavenworth's and Jan- line is Co-Captain Guibert at left none's possible, but receives few end and Bob Baker at left guard. plaudits fot• H~in other wor·ds he Doug Slingerland and Tiny Wein- spehds the afternoon blocking and traub have been battling for the clearing the way. :Jeft tackle spot all week, with pas- As far as man power, defensive sibly Sllnegrland holding a slight and offensive achievements this edge. Bob Mol·loy and Bud Sawyer year both teams appear even. Tak- are the center candidates while· ing into account the statistics, the Stew Goldblatt will -probably be in attitude of each school and the at right guard with Adam Ciusin- va;]ue of a victory to either team, ski pressing him for the honor. we say \lets flip a coin.\ Nitchman has been grooming Bun- dy Shaw for the right tackle all week, but both Paul Mara and Dutch Dotsman hold an edge over him. Either Gordie Semerad or Dime Marotta will be at zight end. Ha.mil!on Lineup Hamilton will field a veteran team tomorrow afte.nocn, and ane that holds high hopes of upsetting I the Dutchmen. Many of the Con- tinentals have been up against Union for two years i-n a row, and have yet t0 taste the Dutchmen's blood, Union winning in '38 and ·39 The starters for Hamilton will probably be Bill Eddy at left end, fast c>nd light, but a potent pass re- ceiver, and Beardslee at the other end. Mel Richards will be in the next to Eddy, a 200 pound lad from Aiizona, and a brilliant defensive player. Bob Lammerts, another· heavy veteran will be in the right tackle slot. Jim Ogilsby, will be in the left guard post, substituting for· the brilliant Bud VanDeusen, who is recovering from injuries, and Army Hoch, who played a stellar 1 ole in the near upset last year, will be at right guaid. Captain Pete Hatch, who did much to keep Ham- merstrom in check last year, will be at center. Coach .Art Winters has a fast and hard hitting backfield to send against the Union line tomorrow in Ralph Leavenworth and Milt Jan- none, halfbacks, Art Naylor full- back and Petronnio, quarterback. With the exception of Jannone, who is a sophomore, all of these men played against the Dutchmen last :~-ear, and Petwnnio even called signals two years ago when Union won 20 to 0, Jannone is speedy to the first degree and is one of the men to keep an eye on tomor- row if he gets in the open. Na~lor will be remebered from last year when he played a brilliant game in backing up the line, plugging hole opp. old armory open evenilllg!l 1.Enquirt ftru·n ~4nv Haberdashery \as you like it\ 704 ALBANY ST. Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 BREAD- ROLLS· PASTRY UP TO DATE STYLES 75.00 up Collegiate Fit PATTON & HALL 245 State St. GOOD FOOD MUSIC <t~------ ---- -- -------- ----- -----·----------------------- Ten Seniors Hang Up Helmets For La.st Time Tomorrow In Final Game By JACU. PEARSON, '42 \ Has it been three years since they had their first tiff with Gruff Old Fred Park,;? It seems only yesterday that they were out there getting acquainted with Ar·t Law- rence, their new coach. It seems even more recent that we Eaw them wearing thei-r little green-buttoned -caps, proudly sport-ing brand new numera-ls on their cheste. Can it be that tomorrow the boys whose pic- tures are grouped al'ound this stovy will play their last game for Union? Those freshman days were lots of fun. Everything was new. Gui- bert tackled the great Billy Thomas. Head Coach Nitchman stopped a moment to talk with young Morris Weintraub. A new thrill was around every corner. They had their whole college ca- reers ahead of them. Four big sea- sons of football. They'd be big years i·f those lads had anything to say about it. They have been big years, though they've flown by like minutes. Per- haps it is too bad that their class can't go out gloriously on the crest of an undefeated feason, but they must knaw that their college give~ 1 them credit for much of the success 1 of the perfect 1939 campaign. Thi;· 1 fall has gone more quickly than 1 any of them. It has had its dis- appointments ... big ones. Learn- ! ing to take them has been inter- : esting. I The Two ,Jacks There are the two erstwhile high 1 school stars who made the genial 1 Art smile more broadly that first ! day. The two Jacks, Vannier and 'Guibert, looked pretty good then I and still do. Who'd ever have 1 thought that two such happy-go- lucky kids would become Union's varsity co-captains? The burden of responsibility hasn't changed them much. They're still the same pair. and though you won't su~pect it to look at them, they'll probably feel as mush;~r inside tomorrow when they play their la~t game as this article is getting to be. There's a story that they didn't even notice Diamond Marotta un- til the season was well underwa;)' back in his freshman year. He was so quiet and retiring that the boys thought he was a manager. \Dime as they call him, is still quiet, but since they found out -that he wa~ out for the team, he's been playing a whale of a game. He played half- back as· a freshman, but was imme- diately converted to end as a var- sity candidate and has been using his big hands as targets on the long passes ever since. Maybe he'll have a little extra glue on them tomorrow as he gets ready to hang up his moleskins in a blaze of glory. \Moose\ Norris would poke fun at any of the \last game of your career\ sentiment, !Jut he'll prob- ------ -------- ably put a little extra zip in his running on those wide rever::es just by way of kissing his l'ight half- back job goodbye after three good seasons. \Who ever heard uf a Califor- nian who could play footbal'l ?\ they joki-ngly ~;~.sked Dick Balch when the Altadena quar·terbaek started to don his first pair of Union blocking pads. Mr. Balch has been a good advertisemen-t for t-he sunny state ever since he tos\ed his first block and he's been stor- ing up reEerve power fur some time to put the finishing touches to his career against Hamilton. Lee Sherman, reserve signa-l caJ.Ier, is re-ported to have suggested to Dick that he watch the game from the benc·h, since it's a long way from California to Schenec~ady and he may never see another Union team in action. T,he characteristic reply from Dick would -be, \Well young fellow, you have a whole year ahead of you yet, so suppose you sit this one out!\ A Tiny Tackle They stuck \Tiny\ onto Wein- traub almost as soon as he stepped off the tra-in a-t Schenectady and 'le's bePn getting bigger ever since. He haE grown old playing tac·klP. for his alma mater and almost lost hiR good left lPg doing it. We hope his battered pin stands up under him when he writes \finis\ to his third term with the varoity tomorrow. A couple of ott.e::- big boys w!U go out with him fo'' their last game as tackles tomorrow. \Bud\ Eisner and Paul Mara haven't seen the action that \Tiny\· has, but they've been out there plugging and Mara recently got his reward with a first string b8rth. Bob (Mother) Molloy was a Wil- liams man in his freshman year and didn't decide to come to the right college until his sophomore year when he was right quick about' waddling out for the regular center post on the football team. He's been shuttled back and forth between the first and second strings since and is losing his hair the situation. Last, but not least, comes \The Count.\ Adam Ciesinski has always made lt a point to play a genlle- man's game of football. They say he's not above reciting poetry in the huddle and he'd probably glad- ly lay down his shirt in a mud puddle for one of the backs to run across for a touchdown. <And maybe he'll have to if the rain keeps up! l Hamilton may or i.'lay not remember his 60-yard romp with an intercepted pass two years ago. He's reported to be fixing up something even better for tomor- row and even took all last season off to work on the plan: He hopes to give the Hamilton back a cour- teous greeting if they try to run the ball over his guard slot. Lamberts Ratings Put Union Ot•er Hamilton 'I'he Lambert Tro.phy ratings places the Dutchmen above the Continentals by at least two touchdowns, with Union placed at S2nd a-nd with a rating of .755 and the Hamilton team placed at 69th with an av.,rag.e ->f .742. Hamilton h; placed one ;;tcp above its rivals Gf la~t week, Havez·funl, after defeating them 13-0. They, howeve1, have dropped only one point since the beginning of their sea~on while Union has dropped a consider- able distance becau.e of its ~tring of defeat$. BARRETT STREET Hamilton Coach Gives Union Edge On Eve Of Battle Additional :,1igns of the alt eady uncertain com-plexion of Satunlay's Union-Ham,ilton clash were evi- denced today as ~tatements from either camps failed to show any gt·eat display of exurbancc. : According to the rival coaches ' Union 8tands an excellent chanc~ of breaking its fom·-game Io~ing stt·eak at the expense of its an- cient rivals from Clinton. In a tel~gram to Jack PhiHips, Sports Ed1tor of The Concordiensis, yes- terday. came Hamilton Coach Art Winter's statement, \With both teams trying to improve their sea- son\s recot·ds, another hard-fought Union-Hamilton game should be forthcoming. It is difficult to estab- lish eithez· team as a favorite but Union's experience should 'give them the edge.\ Coach Nels Nitchma:n,. on the other hand, while any thing but confident, said, \If the boys play the football they are capable of, and don't let dawn fm· a minute during the game, we should win.\ Hamilton Captain Optimistic Captain Hatch of Hamilton, one of the men the Dutchmen will have to keep an exceedingly sharp eye on thr·uughuut Saturday afternoon waxed slightly more enthuoi·asti~ than hi:; mentor, as he said, \Last ~·car·~ garn., shuwt.:d that yuu never can for~ee the outcome of the game. We hope to celebrate our fifti'eth year of football with a victory.\ In keeping with their policy of less word and more action Co- Captains Jack Guibert and 'Jack Vannier had very little to say. Said Guibert, \We expect a hard fought ge,me, which is sure to be typical c f the Hamilton-Union tradition.\ Vannier was even more brief. \I'd rather wait till Sunday morning to say al!ything,\ said Vannier. \Any- one who guesoes the winner of the game is just plain lucky.\ 0--- Fall Athletic Awards Announced Professor J. Harold Wittner an- nounced yesterday that six mem- bers of the 1940 varsity cross coun- try team will receive Block \U' awards and one more will receive an aUa award. In addition, he an- nounced that nine members of the freshman cross country team will be awarded their class numerals for their service. ; !he varsity cross country awards 1 will be made to Co-Captains Adfur 1 Maines and Don Collins, Charles 1 Snell, Robert Shepard, Robert I Reed, and Paul Quinn, Block \U\; Si.anley Davis, aUa. Freshman cross country numer- als to Kenneth Sutherland, David Van Dyck, Holt Sturges, Herb Adams, Harding Brown, Frank I Ree~, Rex Moon, Alfred Kilbey, and Ladzslas Sokolowski. OPEN ALL NIGHT \for that early or late snack\ Cor. Albany & Veeder Sch'dy Free Delivery Phone 4~7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUr< MOTTO .. Quality - Service Satisfaction .. • 598 B'way- For Better Values We Cater to BANQVETS

Page Six Union Plays Host To 260 Visitors Gridiron Ball, House Dances, Mountebanks To Highlight Week-end (Continued from Page 3) Tanner, Vas\a1· College; Adele She- ber, ComeJI Univeroity; Adele Gold, Schenectady; Dorothy Daneman, Gulf Park College: Sylvia Hotkoff Albany; Sarah Weiss, Schenectady; Viola Drooz, Schenectady, Mild,red Wenosloff, State College: Rita Shan.non, Hunter College; Bever·!~ Roth, Schenectady; Mildred Knick- erbium, State College. and Annette Goldblatt, Russell Sage. Phi Sigma Kappa The Phi Sigma Kappa fraterni-ty wiil hold a dinner and for·mal dance on Saturday. Mr, and Mrs. Henry A. Letteron, of Schenectady, and ;>.h. and Mrs. Arla·n T. St. Louis, als8 of Schenectady, will chaperone Included am.:>ng the Phi Sigma Kappa gue~ts are the Misses Mal') Killough, Albany; Mildred 13aker Oneonta; Jane Hanford, Statl Teacher's College: Kathleen Mar· tin, State Teacher's College: Gwen Gillette, Hunter; Helen Ke>sel, AI· bany Bu,iness College; Bettie Brown, Skidmore; Mary Margare. Miller. College of St. Ilcse; Marie Bailie, State Teacher·~· Ccl~ege; I me Buckingham, State Teacher's Col lege; Bernie Haig, .Mildred Elle) School; ~larjor ie Barte!:;, Schenec tady; Carol Cunningham, State Teacher's College; Ellen Jean Le Roy, Schenectady; Bernardine Smith, Bennington College; Viviar. Cartwright. Smith. l'si Upsilon Psi Upsilon fraternity will hold r house dance on Saturday evening with Mr. and Mrs. Paul Moore, Mr and Mrs. Hemy Rathmann, Dr. anc l\hs. W. C. Langsam, and Prof. ant Mrs. Benjamin Whitaker acting ru c·haperones. Guesb at the dunce will include the Misses Mildt·ed E. Hat r. Mil:, School; Jean Malone, Slddmor·e C.:> I lege; Dottie Schrader, Schenectady Nancy Garlich, Skidmore; Caroline PumpE>lly. Miss Porter's School: Shirley Stockwell, Slddmore Col lege; Beth Moir, Vassar College Barbara Pierce, Ballston Spa Louise Bates. Edgewaod Park School; Marjorie Scott, Skidmore College; Mary Louise Gilbert, Skid more CollegE>, and Ruth DE>e, AI· bany State Teacher's College. The Misses Edith Alli~on, Na tiona! Park School; Jean MacKen f'AI.ENDAR Swtda~· 11 a. m. Sunday devotional serv- ice. Preacher, Dr. Wallace Witmer Anderson, Portland, l\1aine, ;>.Iemorial Chapel. 3:15 p. m. Empire State Town Meeting of the Air. Old Chapel 4 p. m. Organ recital, Dr. El- mer A. Tidmarsh. Memorial Chapel. Monday 7:30 p. m. -· Philomathean So- ciety meE'ting. Silliman Hall 7:30 p. m. Band Rehearsal. Gymnasium. 8:00 p. m, l\1ountebanks per- formance, \The Road to Rome,\ by Robert Sherwood. Mountebanks Theatre. CURRICULUM NOTICE At a meeting of the Curriculum Committee of the Faculty held No- vember 11, 1940, the following .pro- posals were adopted and will be- come effective at the bE>ginning ot the next college year. 1. No student will be allowed tc change ft·om one Division to an· other after the beginning of hi< renim· year unless such change i~ approved. after discti>sion of the case, by the Divisions concerned. 2. Extt·a coursE' credit gained in any yeat· may not be med in the subsequent year to reduce the reg· ular number of courses required in that year. C. F. GARIS, Dean. GET YOUR HAIR CUT The RemodE>lled SANITARY BARBER SHOP Next to tho Union Inn Touch up your house for the GRIDIRON BALL with CARLSON'S PAINT and WALLPAPER CARLSON'S 515 Statf> St. Schenectady, N. Y. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1940 zie, Rochester, N. Y.; Dot Hewitt, RocheHH, N. Y.; Betty Hutchison, LaSalle Senior College; Patricia J'crdyce, Queens Village, Long island; Peter Wilson, Williams- .own; Janet Williams. Scarsdale, • 'f. Y.; Nancy Rose, Sara Lawrence ..:;·allege; Elsa Sword, Hastings-on- Hudson; Ruth Barry, Schenectady; Jynthia Kunehardt, Skidmore Col- :ege; Marie Pitcaim, Bayside, N.Y.; /irginia KeJ.ly, Smith CoHege, and .'l\athalie Judd, Smith College. Ochs, Kal'amazoo, Mich; Sally B. Great Barrington, Mass.; Sally Burns. ,Smith; Sally Stuyvjlsant, Young, Russell Sage; Helen C. Sweetbriar; Jinx Falkenburg, New Rohr, Rochester; Betty Platte, York City; Jeanne C. Van de Vate, Schenectady; Catherine Lapp, Buf- Rochester; Jane Tuttle, Boston, I falo. Mass.; Nancy Burn~. Smith; Mary Theta Delta Chi Mc~lintock, Smith; Lou!se Wild, The Theta Delta Chi fraternity Smrth; Jane Dawson, Smrth; Mary wi:l held a formal house dance Sat- Louise Weaver,_ Roch?st?r; Lei~ A. I urday night with Mr. and Mrs. C. Westga:ard. Smrth; Vrrgmm Mitch-, w. Martin of Amsterdam, N. Y., eU, Schenectady; Barb<l:ra Brett, and Miss Katherine CorteUo, also Wellesley; Helen L. Rarfstranger, of .Amsterdam, as chaperones. The l'yramid Club The Pyramid Club will hold a d·ance in Silliman Han tomorrow ,light. Gene Senn and hh orchestra .viii play for the dance. Mr. Bert- ram Harrison, director of the .\<lountebank>, will chaperone. The guests include the Misses Mary Grazier, St. Rose: Selma Leis. .ol'e.~ Ymk State College for 'l'each- :rs; Peggy O'Hara, St. Rose; Dor•o- .hy Williams. Gouchet· College for Women; Gertrude Schell, Amster- d·am, N, Y.; Sophia Hitchcock, St. Rose; Jane Fauls, Russell Sage: Jean Nye, Woorster, Ma~s.: Rose Mary Fisher, St. Rose. and Freda GAZETTE PRESS Printers Boppert, Schenectady. Sigma Chi ~ llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 1 llllllllllllllllllllllli llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ~ Sigma Chi fratE>rnily will hold a .1ou:::e dance on Saturday evening - vith M,rs. Laura F, Howland, Mr. :; md .!.\irs. Severn J. Hasbrouclt, Mr. md Mr:s Lawt·ence S. Borst, Dr. :1nd Mrs. ~1aurice A. Donavan, anc - .Jr. and Mrs. 1-'. G. Maier acting as .::haperones. Guests at the dance will include he Misses Kit·>y Vro.Jman, Sche· 1ectady: Mar·y Rotundo. Schenec- tady; Phyllis Maier. Schenectady; Peggy Fotner, Menands; Norma :}ates. Burlington, Vt.: Rita Ryan, Lake Placid: Agatha Martin. Sche- - .1ectady; Rita Balfor·t, Schenec- tady; Helen Pyle, Schenectady; - uorraine Miller. Rmsell Sage Col- lege; Shir·ley Goyer, Tr·oy; Teresa 3heffer, Schenectady; Janet Far- rell, Schenectady; Nadine Procter, Madison, N. J.: Ruth R. Sanders. 3chenectady; Nancy Jo Israel. Smith College; Janet Swanson, Rus- ;ell Sage College, and Lillian Ecle- .;;hymer, Russell Sage College. Sigma Phi SneiPty The Sigma Phi Society, in con- -· junction with the Kappa Alpha So- ::iety, will hold a dinner and po:ot- interfraternity dance. The dinner, which will be held at the Sigma Phi Place, will be followed by a :; dancE> at the Kappa Alpha Lodge. with Mr. and Mrs. Che\ter M. Saw- :elle. of Cambridge, Mass., as chap- _ erones. Gues~ of Sigma Phi Society will ·nclude the Misses Joyce Thomp- ;on, Smith: Elizabeth W. Crandell, - UNION MEN and GUESTS • HALE • HOUSE . IS =· At Your Service and CHEERS for YOUR VICTORY OVER HAMIL TON Ann Delafield School; Charlotte ~•11111111 llllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ DELIVERIES AND SHOE REPAIR SERVICE FOR THE CONVENIE!'lCE OF OUR CUSTOMERS GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Cor. Darrett Simply Phone 6-9419 PATRONIZE CONCORDY ADVERTISERS list of guests for the week-end ac- Hartwick; Mary O'DonneJ.l, State tivities are the Misses Joan Walsh, Teachers; Helen \VHmot, Skidmore; University of Rochester; Laura Eil~en Mitchel'!, Skidmore; Mar- Ryan, Trinity College; Emily gety Gehman, Skidmore; Helen Schoentag, Wei'lesley; Phyl:is Hood, :Jameron, Skidmore; Mary Young, Skidmore; Betty Candlyn, St. Rose; Pine Manor; Marie DonneUy, St . Glenna Smith, State Teachers: Dor- Rose, and Joyce Holden-Smythe, othy Roy, St. RoEe; Betty Hamm, Montre:J.l Aca.demy for Girls. Coca-Cola with food is a taste experience mil- lions welcome. A natural partner of good things to eat, Coca-Cola sends you back to work with that feeling of complete refreshment. THAT REFRESHES Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, Inc. Have your date down to At the Came We're for Union PELOP'S for the finest in foods or drinks 438 STATE STREET It's Bowling Time at REUTERaS ACADEMY \U . I B I' c t \ mon s ow mg en er 148 Clinton St. Schenectady, N. Y. CLARK WITBECK CO. Hardware 416-418 STATE STREET Quality Hardware Since 1870 PHONE 4-4161-WE DEUVER G. E. Mazda Lamps, Floor Wax, Pocket Knives, Kitchen Cutlery, Clocks, Tools of All Kinds, Pyrex, Hose, Valdura Paint and Enamel, \Yale\ and \Sargent\ Hardware. At the Dance We're for Jack Teagarden At the Play We're for Bertram Harrison Your weekend will be made complete at the Van Tap Curler Room Z-! Vol Tl the com the keyl to I vidt: deci will U: w'hi' com will will awa or ' \Un yeaj ru!i· cil, fore forr any L was of whc gan par· ,ion ne'i\ cia! thei T cou ava to 1 will to r T pre: meE Ra Ar T sev and wili sub ove S;JiC not FO} spe R.E Ne• ers, T the dre by .anc sta Th• foil No· De De Ja1 JaJ Ja.

State Mar·- oung, St. A. I. E. E. Invited To R. P. I. Z-5 1 ~ VoL LXIV., No. 18 Committee Seeks Optional Choice For Award Keys Organization Men Unanimously Approve Change in Key Ruling The activities representatives on the :Student C0uncH, acting as a committee of the whole to consider the question of uniform award keys, voted unanimously last week to present a report flavoring indi- vidual option by the activities in deciding what type of award they will give. Under the system of award keys which will be .recommended by the committee, each individual activity will be a-ble to choose whether it will use the type of key previously awarded by that particular group or whether it will make use of the \Uniform Key\ die purchased last year by the Council. Under the ruling passed by last year's Coun- cil, all campus activities were forced to award keys of the uni- form design, if they were to award any at all. New Plan Suggested Last year's uniform key ruling was violently opposed by a majoritJ of the older campus activities whose members felt that their or- ganizations' originai keys were a part of the organizati<Jns' tradi- ,ions It had been favored by the newer clubs, who had been finan- cially unable to provide a key of theh· own. The plan to be ,presented to the council will make the \uniform\ die available to those activities unable to purchase one of their own and will permit the older organizations to make use of their present keys. The committee's report will be presented to the Council at its next meeting, on November 27. ---0>--- Radio Address Series Announced by Dr. Fox T we I v e representatives from seven college of New York State and one coHege in Massachusetts will deliver radio addresses on the subject of \Democratic Processes\ over Station WGY under the au- S;Jices of the college, it was an- nounced by President Dixon Ryan Fox. Among the colleges to furnish speakers are: Vassar, Williams, R.P.I., Sk'idmore, Russell Sage, New Y;ork State College for Teach- ers, Cornell, ·and St. Lawrence. The series will be comparable to the present schedule of radio ad- dresses on the \American Faith\ by various members of the faculty, .and will be carried over the radio station at 5:15 u. m. on Saturdays. The speakers and their subjects follow: Nov. 30-Dr. Everett V. Stonequist, Professor of Sociology, Skidmore College - \Cul- tural Lag and thP Demo- cratic Process.\ Dec. Dec. 7--Dr. Richard A. Newhall, Whitneh Professor of Eur- opean History and Chair- man pro tempore of the Faculty, Williams College -\Some of thE' Attitudes of Mind Necessary in a Successful Democracy.\ 14-Dr. Matthew Albert Hunt- er, Head of the Depart- ment of Metallurgical En- gineering, Rensselaer Poly- technic Institute - ''The Contributions of Metallw·- gical Engineers to Amer- ica.\ Dec. 21-Dr. Henry N. MacCracken, President of Vassar Col- lege-\Civil Liberties.\ Jan. 4-Dr. Helen D. Lockwood, Professor of English, Vas- sar College - \DoPs DP- fense of Frepdom Include Jan. Jan. Women?\ 11-Professor Eric W. Barnes, Chairman of the English Department, Russell Sage ·College-\The Responsibil- ity of the Churches in a DPmocratic Cultur~>.\ 18-Dr. Mark Mohler, Profes- sor of History, Skidmore College-\By the People.\ UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1940 As Cheerleaders Led Rally at Ball ·Hamilton Rivalry Display Cup Won By Delta Upsilon Smith, Shapiro Win In Last Grid Contest President Fox Awards Trophy for Miniature Gridiron Exhibit President Fox awarded a \dum- mv\ to Delta Upsilon fraternity during half time of the Union-Ham- ilt0n football game Saturday as he proclaimed that fraternity winner of the rivalry display contest. He will select a trophy for permanent compe·tition in the contest while he is in New York City today. Two deadlocks were enough to upset the Union gr.idiron predictors in theit· choices of Saturday's contests. Holy Cross and Temple, and Columbia and Navy were enough to throw the whole college for a loss. No one was sage enough to forsee the tieups. Two men were lucky enough t<> get seven out of the ten, but only one was pes!\imistic enou!'(h to pick Hamilton over Union. Only two of the entries \uomit- ted chose the Continentals ov<>r the Dutchmen. This week's passes to Proctor's go to Jim Smith, '44, .and Edwa.rd Shapiro, '42. Last Satu:·day's contest will terminate The Concordicnsis Football Contest for this yea!·. Gordon R. Murplt.y, '41, and E. Parke Bransan, '43, direct en- thusiastic Dutchmen and their guests .at dance pl'eceding Hamilton gridiron classic. Head Cuach Nelson A. Nitchman and Mr~. Nitch- man are standing in the background. Coach Nitchman delivered a messag.e to the dancers during the intermission rally. Evel'y fraternity house and dorm- itory had entries in the contest with props varying from live tur- keys to straw men. A committee composed of Fred Wyatt, '32, An- thony Hoadley, '23, and. Daniel Weeks, '28, judged the exhibits. In making the award, Dr. Fox praised the excellent quality of all the exhi·bits and expressed his pleasure that the Union-Hamilton rivalry had been ke·pt on a high plane of friendliness. Transition Urged In Chapel Talk Dr. Anderson Entreats Students to Respond To Challenging Status Patronage System Discussed Sunday Town Meeting Leaders Show Favoritism Bad For Political Parties ---- ------- Twenty-Four Freshmen Meet in Verbal Battle Many EffPctive Displays Made The Delta Upsilon group convert- \Our generation needs to make ed the front lawn of their chapter a transition from a state of dis- house into a miniature football illusion to an attitude of hope\ field. Under the theoretical Ham- Dr. Wallace Witmer Anderson, of Twenty-four freshmen, two S c t' a! ilton goalposts, the\ pitched a the State treet ongrega IOn from each of the twelve English ~ d M · t Id tl ten•t labeled \Union\ with a sign Church in Portlan , ame, o 1e sections will battle tonight in a · 1 Ch 1 nearby pro~laiming that \we're congregation in Memona ape war of words: not a debate, but H b t . ::am.ping here today.\ At the other Sunday morning. \ avoc can e a spelling match. The compe 1- t' t t 1 end was a Hamilton player with a wrought upon a genera IOn, emp - tors will line up in Old Chape · 'II · d\ h body made of a billiard ball labeled ed as ours is to be d1s1 us1one , e this evening at 7:30 to bring to a A Republican political leader and conclusion the bees which have \8\, to signify that Hamilton was said. a state civil service department rep- been held in the freshman Eng- \behind the eight ball.\ On the roof Dr. Anderson cited a story by H. resentative agreed that patronage !ish classes. Thl ee winners will was a large poster of a Dutchman G. Wells in which a man left in a 'l.nd \politics mixed with civil serv- emerge. The first prize winner chasing P. Continental currency bill. reputedly haunted house receives ice\ brings about suffering both to will be $10 richer; the second, Several other posters proclaimed an intense sensation of hortor ·when ~he political parties and to the pub- $5, the third. $2. Professor \Danger-men at work on Hamil-l he sees a long row of candles lie service, at the Empire State George D. Kellogg, Professor ton,\ \Dyna Mite but Hamilton I flicker out one by one. He compated rown Meeting at Union College yes- of Latin and Chairman of the won't\ and \With men who know I these candles to the ideals in which terday. Field of Ancient Classics, will football best, it's Union, two to 1 our generation has put its faith. Miss Catherine E. Shanahan of preside. one.\ \We have trusted those lights,\ he 3yracuse, senior municipal research The other exhibits showed a said, \worked for them, made sacri- ass istant in the New York State Last year's contest, which at marked degree of originality and· ficer. for them. And now it seems that time was under the direc- · •t• t' b th 1· hts were Dep artment of Civil .service, and In! Ia JVe. as if one · y one ose tg tion of Professor James Sproat K AI h t d 't d' play \ Lou is M. Killeen, Schenectady poli- appa p a cen ere 1 s 1:0 going out. Green, was won by Walter b t t' 'th 1 cl fac in .l ·cal leader who was a delegate to a au a tre WI a c 0 r e - : Ideals Have- Not Failed Schulze, '43. Placing second to 'd ·t A · b the 'egend 1 the New York State Constitutional st e 1 · sign· ore ' ,, \The world s1'tuation toda\ does Shulze, was Harold Friedman, •y 'II t th ks later A 1 ~ ~onvention, virtually agreed that ' au ge e wor. · . t 1 · the failure of ideals \politics\ brings about reduced effi- also of the Class of 1943. hammock slung _?Ut of the upstairs I ~~t f~~c ;~~alty t•hat comes from ciency in the public service. < Continueo on Page 4 ) 'the denial of those ideals,\ Dr. An- Miss Shanahan .presented three : detson stated. He pointed out that main reasons why patronage doesn't I 7IK. b k , E ll t n..,. dUCtl•On 1 when a man has repeatedly broken help either the political. pa;ti~s lJ'.L'OUn te an s xce en .r tJO I the laws of health until he arrives whose chieftains often claim It ts • 1 at a state of serious illness, we do \necessary to maintain organiza-1 Ove\\ohadows nzay 's Discrepanczes ! not conclude that there are no laws tion,\ or to the general public: I o:J .C 1 I of health. \The very chaos befo;e Politics, Patronage Scored By JOSEPH A. HEANEY • ·- --- - which we are tempted toward d1s \Parties should act as focal points Despite the fact that the Mounte- with unaffected ease. J. Clark Al-j iilusio?- proclaims the fact that for public opinion and should offer banks have chosen a mediocre play b ts . 44 furnished much of the 1 there 1s moral law. Man may break candidates for office who reflect they succeded in giving Robert n~~se' and excitement with his in- I himself against moral order, but he the party point of view on the is- Emmet Sherwood's \Road to Rome\ t t t'on of the boisterous and· can never permanently break that sues of the day. Patronage inter- an amusing and colorful production. r~J;~ aH 1 asdrubal. Alberts did an order,\ Dr. Anderson went on. feres with the administration of Due to the bl'illiant performances unusually good job of acting and Dr. Anderson said that the wo~ld government services. Patronage is 1 of Viola Patterson, Ralph Tiebout his performance was given added\ sih.;ation today. chall~nge_s eac~ Ill- incompatible with the satisfactory and those of a strong supporting vigor due to his physical appear- I div1dual to g1ve h1s !:>est. The performance of g<Jvernment serv- cast the production is given an ex- ance Mago Hannibal's younger 1 heroic in man will respond to a ices under present day conditions.\ citing and polished presentation brother, was 'played by Harold. L.im· j challenge\ he said. Mr. Killeen charged that while rarely found in amateur theatricals pert, '44, who managed to mJect The limits of man's unaided the Federal and State Civil Service The glittering and gaudy sets of into his characterization a potent power are brought home to us by systems maintain highly qualified! John T. Boyt did much to create helping of youthful arrog..,nce and the world situation today, Dr. An- technical staffs to judge ~pplicants 1 the mood that the playwright failed conceit Limpert proved himself to derson added. He stated that man for job.s under the ment system, I to convey in his lines. Mr. Bertram be a polished comedian. Jacob Van has been humbled by his realization municipal civil service commissions I M. Harrison, director ~f the. p~od';lc- Aernam, '42, in the role of Scipio )f these limits. are hamstrung 'by lack of funds tion, has through h1s ortgmal!ty gave to the play his usual t~p~ .or \We are beg·inning to see, with with which to maintain technical and timing paced the play in suer. humor, which adds to the festivities . new meaning that God from ever- staffs and thus po~itics is permit- I a manner that its tempo incr~ases of ~ny come~y. Fabia, mother of 1 lasting to ev~rlasting is the answer ted to sway the chmce of personnel 1 steadily to the very end. Consider- Fabms Max1mus, as played by to our confusion and our eternal for local jobs. I ing the technical diofficulties that Adele ·Fortin gave an amusing and strength\ Dr. Anderson concluded. He .said \it is clearly evident to- I the Mountebanks' staging facilities competent characterization. Leah ' day that our political liberty cannot I involve, Mr. Harrison has done a Elaine Einstein as Meta and -----a---- be preserved unless certain ac<!ui~- masterful job in creating the illu- George Lord, '43, were effective as itive tendencies are curbed. This 1s I sion of depth and expanse that the the Roman slaves. The remainder Many Neutrals Attend true because political liberty rests pageantry of the play required to of the cast were good and gave upon economic justice, and upon be successful. convincing support to the princi- Fraternity Weekend true economic opportunity.\ 1 Mrs. Viola Patterson in the role pals. f A t . h · f th lay gave The Student Employment Bureau ----o I o my 18 • erome 0 e P ' In keeping with the carnival d I 't t' t · t· II th estimated that a t•ecord .breaking R. P. I. Exten S. nv1 a I On to her charac er tza JOn a e spt'rt't of the production, Gordon A. I d th t th number of neutrals attended the T El • 1 E • beauty and resp en ency a e Rust, faculty advisor to the Mounte- 0 ectrlca nglne ers 1 1 d d d Th h M Pat Interfraternity week end. The bu- d t d. f th reau made its estimate on the basis Dr. Fox Announces Radio Series PRICE FIVE CENTS Teagarden Plays At Gridiron Ball For Union Guests Theme of Decorations Strikes International Note at Fall Dance Union's social season opened oHi- cially on Friday night with Jack Teagarden and his orchestra fur- nishing the music for the Interfra- ternity Gridiron Ball. A half hour broadcast, from 11:30 to 12:00 p. m. was carried over the WG Y wires. Decorations for the dance struck an international note with the Alumni Gymnasium decorated in a manner to conform with the theme of \A Salute to the Americas\. A large American flag was hung from each end of the gymnasium, while the flags of ('Vely country in North and South America were hanging from the balcony. The programs, which were handed out at the door, followed the general motif of the 2vent, ·being printed in red and blue ink with a white background. The bandstand wa.s also decorated in the red, white, and blue theme. Representatives from both the Union football team and the Rens- selaer Polytechnic Institute were present at the dance, t·he former re- ceiving their bids at the door. The invitations extended to various members of the Troy school were a continuation of the recently inaug- urated ·policy of increased friendli- ness >between the two schools. They reciprocated similar bids given Union students for the recently held Rensselaer Interfraternity Ball. Rally Held at Dance An innovation at the Gridiron Ball was an intermission rally. The throng of dancet·s gathered around the bandstand and were led in cheers and songs by members of the cheerleading squad under the leadership of Gordon Murphy, '41. Another feature of the Gridiron weekend we.re the performances of tt:e Mountebanks' production of the Robert Sherwood comedy, \The Road to Rome\ on Friday and Sat- urday evenings·. The play was under the direction of Bertram Harrison, well known Broadway director. Saturday evening, seventeen fra- ternities and the Pyramid Club, campus neutral organization, held house parties, preceded, in several cases, by formal dinners. Formal dinners were also in vogue o.n Fri- day evening, preceding the dance, in many fraternities, while the Pyramid Club held an all-neutral dinner in Hale House. Hampton Institute Singers in Assembly The Hampton Institute sin.gers of Hampton, Virginia paid their an- nual visit to the campus this morn- ing when they sang in daily assem- bly. At present they are on an eleven weeks tour of the New Eng- land States. Their opening number was \We Will End This Warfare\ which was followed by two spiritual selections, \I Heard the Preaching of the Eld- ers\ and \Good Religion.\ Their final offering was the familiar \Deep River.\ For their encores they sang \I Ain't Gonna Study War No More\ and \Cheer'the Weary Traveler.\ The quartet was introduced by Lorenzo W·hite also of the Institute. The quartet consisted of Robert H. Hall, first tenor; George F. Ham- ilton, second tenor; Jeremiah Thomas, first bass; and William L. Byrd, second bass. The Hampton Institute has sent a quartet every year to the college in the last few years. 1 ro e eman e · · roug rs. - banks, kept pace with his cohorts The Rensselaer Polytechnic In- terson's innate un ers an mg 0 e by making an unusuaHy clever and h d t· f' h of the demand for rooms which ex- stitute chapter of the Amelican In- I role and ~r rama tc m.esse, s : humorous Roman Playbill. Mr. ceeded all other requests in recent ---0>--- Aiumni Gift Fund Group Holds November Meeting stitute of Electt·ical Engineers has created a VItal and sparklmg chal- Rust is to be complimented on the extended an invitation to the acterization that glowed with in- originality and harmless satire of years. Union chapter of that organization creased intensity to the final cur- his programs. Independent neutral sources dif- to attend a lecture on Fluorescent tain. fered with the employment bureau's The class agents of the Alumni Lighting and Ultra-Violet Light- The difficult role of Hannibal In summing up the production, I figures. They set the total attend- Gift Fund held a meeting in the ing tonight at 7:30 o'clock in Troy. was enacted by Ra:l·ph Tiebout. '43 feel that the Mountebanks gave an ance among the non-fraternity men faculty lounge of Hale House on The speaker will be Mr. H. E. who gave his portrayal all the ten- enriched interpretation of Mr. as \small\ compared to the number Saturday morning, November 16. Robinson Lighting Engineer of sion yet poised restraint that the Sherwood's weal{ play. I say en- w.ho went to the Junior Prom last The meeting was in charge of W·al- the Gene;·al Electric Compan~r from playwright intended for his hero. riched because of .the gra~ify~ng spring. Their guess ran from 30 to ter C. Baker, '15, and was address- :-;[ela Park Ohio Mr Tiebout's diction, delivery of product our dramatic orgamzahon 45 couples. The actual number of ed by Dr. Burges Johnson, Chair- • The lect~re will be held in room Jin~s and flawless stage presence wr~ng fro.m the limited. raw ma- 1 ~icket sales to non fraternity men man <Jf the Field of English. 108 of Russell Sage Hall. This rep- labels his perfot·mance as truly tenals wh~c.h the playwright. offer- IS not available. . . , At the same time College repre- resents another in the series of ges- brilliant. 1 ed. Techmciat;s a.ctors and director 1 ~he figures from MISS Trav1s s sentatives of the Admissions Office tu res by R. P. I. an.d Union organ-! John 1'. Boyl, '42, in the role of 1 worked consctent10usly to present offtce were arrived at by counting 1 met in the student lounge of Hale t f bl f t O f their re-\ 1 the numbe1 of innuilie\' fot .ooms lHou::;e, This group was presided izations to strengthen good feeling· Fabiu!O Ma.ximus managed o c~ e- 1 . a . a~ora· e orecas .. , between the schools. I ate his character's pompous quality mammg season. where guests could be put up. over by Frederic A. Wyatt.

Page Two THE CONCOIUJIENSlS, Tl'ESllA Y, NOVE.i\lBEU 19, 19-Hl 01nnrnr .b irnsts Fot:t-;DED 1877 \:l Causa Persa Parole tlssai\ Member of the Associated Collegtate Press ami llbtrilmtor of the Cot- lt,giute Digest. The official newspa·per of the students of l..:nwn Cullege. l'ubllshed Tues- day anll Fri!.lays throughout the cullegc year. E di to rial ·Rooms, S i llima-=n~I-==h~d.=l.~Cc7._,'-'-, ic-u-=nc.::..:.:c 7 'u'-:-l.,.-l.,-g-e--,C 7 'a-n-, p-u-s-. --;T\'e'l\e,..-1' l\w\'r.,.,.., P, Schenectady, 4-0133. Publiratlon Offii':'c:;'c,-'-'rTu:h-:-e-cu'\'·\\a\\ze-:t 7 tc::--.Press, 334 State St., l:lchenectudy, ~. Y .. Tdephone 4-4141 li:ntere!.l a.t the l:lchenectady Post ufiiz.e a~ tl~Class .:.\lt•il :\latt.,r. sUGScripHou price ll'ive ceitts a ecrl-Y; $3.00 u year; delive-I:ed U!tywhere lll the Umted Btates. Senior Board James E. Twining, Jr ............................... Editor-in-Chief Chi Psi Ludge--1-t.i:i:.!i Laskar Schwartz .•.............................. Business Manager K.appa. :\ u lluu~c-4-l:.i~l Robert S. Schul berg .............................. Associate Editor Phi Stt;rua Udta Huu:::H!-li·\.L7li:i Paul W. Becker ................................... Associate Editor John D. Phillips ..................................... Sports Editor l'::;i L\p:.ilun lluu:.--~::-1-:-,7lu John P. Lewis. , ................. , ............... , . Editor-at-Large .\'ltddk .Sl·t·tlllll, :\ul\t!t L' ... ,llt.•gv ti-t}~lt li .J. Donald Haigh .............................. Circulation Manager l'!li llt•tla Tht'l<.l lb•tl:-.t• 1-1:!11 ----------~------- REPRESENTED POR NATIONAL. AOVERTISING BT National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers RePresentalwe 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N, Y. CHICAGO • BOSTO!l • LOS ANGELIS ' SAH FRANCISCO Junior Board Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman Samuel Portnoy Sophom{)re Board Robert Dake, Robert Bishop, Granger Tripp, Thomas O'Connor, Richard Watanabe, Arthur Cohen, Everett McCat·ty, Robert Hayner, Harvey Fishbone. Robert Allan, Photographic Editor Stanley Greenstein Justin Perlstein Business Staff Joseph Jaycox Harold Messenger Myron Mille David Rosenblum Issue- Editor ................... Sophomore Board (Granger Tripp) Harvey Fishbone Thomas O'Connor Assistants Everett McCa1 ty Ro·bert Hayner Tue:eday, November 19, 1940 SETTING A STANDARD- \Vas \l.Jnion's week-end\ a success'? V\'e would answer with a resounding \yes\ despite Satm·da~;'s defeat at the hands of the Continentals. As for that defeat we congratulate a Ham- ilton team which achieved what so many other Buff and Blue teams have tried and failed to achieve in Schenectadr. But we feel that the Garnet defeat was the only blemish on an otherwise perfect week-end. :\luch credit is due to those individuals and groups who were responsible fo1· the successful functions of the occasion. For the student body Because we're alive, s-leeping in a' ble words, \With maJice towards bed at night, and allowed to eat! none, with charity for all\ can still three meals a day; because we just 'I be 1 epeated within the boundaries had our girl up to the Interfrater- -of this hemisphere; because life nity BaH; because sho still loves 1 doesn't really begin at fatty; ·be- us; because we own a dog; because cause, although he wouldn't al·low we're not in the army <yet); be- it in chapel en Friday, Dr. Fox cause we can sUB drink ten beers didn't object to Union students without getting sick; because we're singing their \Alma Mater\ at the at Union; because we've got an ex- Hamilton game on Saturday .... tra suit of underwear and a lot of Becau~e Bud Green's Hamilton handkerchiefs; because God's still game di~play in front of the D. U. in His Heaven even though all isn't house, in winning top honors, was right witJ:o the world ... -. indicative of the potential spil'it at Beca usc England is doing bette!· Union; becau,;e Fred Waring ant! than holding her own against the Liggett Myers still offer the best Naz; blitzkrieg; because. rulthough progtam on the air; becau::;e pinball scotch whiskey is getting expensive, machines at'e not so popular today we still have Milwaukee beer and as they were a year ar;o; because Kentucky bourbon; because the the Bible is still America's Number marks went in on Friday; because One best-seller; because Worceste1 the best things in life are still fl'ee; upset RPI; because we've been to because this is the only country left sb: Sunda:, cha.pels; because the in the wm ld where people can Greeks are knocking hell out of really Jool{ forward .t(:) Christmas; the Italians; because Ame1 ican Tel because Nels will have Bob Ba·ker and Tel is still going up; because back again next fall; because even wintPr is coming; because Charlie Robett Taylor can't ruin \Escape\; Wald1·on is still with us; because AI because John Kieran still writes Ciampa\:> baby is a boy; because sports for the \Times\. . . . we're under draft age; because Because cancer. through individ- Union is the great place it was ual research and public contribu- Clacked up to be; because Thurs- tion, is becoming less and less of a day's Thanksgiving Day; because me naco to human life; because Fr-iday we won't have to get up fot there are a few people at Union an eight o'clock; because of all like Dick Balch who aren't out for I these, anc'. countless lesser bless- themselves; because Lincoln's hum- I ings, Thanks. Letters to the Editor \Somewhere in The Editor ·'The Concordiensis\ Union College Dear Sir: Scotland\ There seemed to be a great deal of doubt during last year, when I had the great privilege of being with you all, concerning juH what was going on in Europe. The ra- dio news ::aid one thing, the newE- papers another, and -then each in turn contradicted itself. It was difficult to know what to believe. I hoped that when I got over home I would be able to write you and clarify one or two doubtful points straight from the horse's mouth; and here I am writing, and, if the truth be told. I am more befuddled than ever I was. Civil life in wartime is one thing: and militaty life another, despite modern warfare. In the first case. you are con:,1antly listening to the radio or reading each new editicn of the· paper as it rolls off the press. Having done so, discus- sion invariably follows and even- tually you try to settle your own views on the whole situation. They may be right or wt ong; but inter- national affairs are so complicated, Civil Engineers Visit New York Dr. Taylor Conducts Senior Trip; Itinerary Includes New Tunnel Mr. Warren C. Taylor, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, is conducting 11 seniors in the engi- neering division on the annual engi- neering division inspection trip to New York City this week. The group will 1·eturn to the campus to- mOll\OW. The party's program began in New York on Monday morning with a visit to the Metropolitan Life In- surance Company's housing project at 2021 Westchester Avenue in the Bz·onx. Mr. Leslie G. Holleran, \06 Chief Engineer, guided the party and explained the details of the de- sign of the .project. Monday afternoon, the paz ty in- spected the new Nmth Beach Air- port where Mr. L. L. Odell, '05, chief airport engineer of Pan-American Airways. Inc., served as guide. we extend our congratulations; and events move so fast, that it is Visits were made this morning to the Engineering Societies Building, the new Queens Midtown Tunne. and the subway work in Brookl)n. First, to a team which will fight to the finish despite a difficult to get more than a gen- eral impression. But in army life, handicap of many injuries, tough breaks in most of the sea- thing·s are different. A lot depends This afternoon the men saw the new East River Vehicular Tunnel which will connect Bz oaklyn with son's games, diminishing support and an unimpressive record. upcn the nature of the locality in which you find youn·elf whether Secondly, to the Interfraternity Ball Committee for pre- in the wilds m· near a town. Ac- Manhattan at the Battery. The party plans to visit the Fcc- era! Shipbuilding and Dr:ydock Company at Kearny, New Jerse:-,. tomorrow morning. In addition the men will see the West Side Expres .. Highway, the Holland Tunnel, the Pulaski Skyway, and tht' Passaic River Lift Span. After this the party will return to Union. senting Union with a \Salute to the Amel'icas\ -one of the tually I\ve bel'n in both and you rately hear a radio-I've listened most successful dances ever held on the campus to the news twicE> in thE' past six Thirdlv to The ~lountebanks for doino· such a oTand job weeks--:a?d even ne.wspapers ai e • ' '\' b often difficult to cbtam, so much so in \The Road to nome\ thus providing excellent entel'tain-1 that you get into thP way of doing ment for our guests of the week-end. without them altogethei'. ,. . . . . There is there;ore no 1eal de- Fmally, to the many fr'atermtres and the dormrtory which, mand amcng thP ordina 1 y 1 ank and Other trips planned by Plofcs\or Taylor include the Triborough Bricge Hell Gste Bridge. Ward s Island Sewage Disposal Plant, the Bronx-Whites~one Bridge and the LaGuardia Airport upon short notice, appropriately decorated the campus and file for the latest news; so the ~up- , d . 11 · h d , · ply suffer·s. I happen to have re- coope! ate so \\ e m t e ecor atwn contest. ceived a little promotion fmm If we had had our choice we would have sent the Conti- ··Gunnt>r·· to \Lance- Bombardier,\ nentals home defeated instead of victorious, but none can deny that L'nion's week-end was as successful as any that have gone before and if those that follow come up to its standard their· success will be insured. THE HAMILTON GAME There are several college student bodies that are able, at this moment, to point to undefeated seasons; others to over- whelming victories over traditional rivals. At Union we are able to do neither of these things; we have had neither a season in which we won more games than we lost, nor have we beaten any traditional rivals. We have been defeated in Schenectady by the chief of our football rivals for· the first time in ten years. But there are things to which we may point even though this year \Ve can boast none of the others. We are under- graduates at a college whose band precedes any rendition of its own alma mater with that of its chief foe, and whose stu- dents bare their heads as it is plaJ·ed. We are undergrad- uates at a college whose rivals stand up and cheer when our co-captain is helped from the field after the last play of the last game of his college career. We are undergraduates at a college half of whose football team travels from the scene of its traditional clash with half of the football team of the opposing college. We are undergraduates at a college whose football players label their chief rivals as \swell gents.\ Union did not win more games than she lost; she beat no traditional rivals. But a victory was won as the page devoted to the fiftieth renewal of the Union-Hamilton game was written off. A. V. F. but I :>till liv<> amcng the o1 dim,ry wo1 king cia\~ lad,-- la·borrn·, small ; radesmen, farm hands and so on, of \vihom I am in charge and who ccmpose the ordinary gunners in the Royal Artillei·y, and there is very little intere>-t in politics of any ldnd. They don't 1·ead much, knew very little of what's going on, or if they do, they don't know how to have a reasonable discus- sion. The only political one I've heard in the past six weeks b1 oke down after five minutes ·because each one of the group persisted in shouting sweeping genet ali ties at Th<' students rr.aking t r.e t1 ip in c!ude John F. Canfie!d Hem·) ........ .::rosby, Paul V. Mara Diarrond J. Ma:otta. Robezt G. Murphy, George W. Norris, Harold 0. Nad- ler, Ronald J. Ostrancer. Thomas C. Smith, Edward J. Ward and Donald A. Collins. c1 ease in those hope. E:l.'c,;> up U.S. A.! minimums.\ ·- I the good work Very sinceiely, Neil Loudon the top of his voice, not on the TO THE EDITOR OR THE E-ame subject, and not listening to CONCORDlENSIS; the others. Thus, because of the lack of de- Bernard A. Shapero, who has mand among the majority, and I'm been in library work since his grad- talking about only the rank and uation m 1939, enlisted in the Na- file, it is difficult to get news; even tiona! Guard last summer and now more difficult to ciscuss interna- finds himself serving with the tiona! a·ffaire; and since I believe Headquarters Battery of the 1st that good discussions are instruc- Battalion, 104th Field Artillery at mental in forming· clear opinions, Fort McClellan, Alabama. He has then it's difficult for me to fullfil been put In charge of the regi- any promises, and to tell you any- mental library. He writes me that thing you don't already know. the library provisions are quite As a Britisher I would naturally adequate so far as space and fur- say that the best thing to do is to nishing are concerned. but Yery belie·ve the Britiah official war thin on books and asks if we ha·ve communiquef:. As your fdend I at Union College any accumulation should sincerely say the E\ame thing. of light fiction whic-h we might send Personally, I thinks that British down to his regimental library. I war claims are, in nearly every am setting up a receiving station case, expressed as a minimum and for any gifts of such books and a1 e very likely greater than re- would appreciate the cooperation ported; and I could prove ·by ex- of the students, if they hace any to ample after example that the Ger- spare for this purpose. 'Ne will send man claims arc directly the re- them down in a large package, if verse. But whethe·r or not you we can accumulate a supply. agree with me-well it'e up to you. Thanldng you, I am, To concluC:e, a la Newsweek I Cordially yours, \Periscope \Watch for an in- DIXON RYAN FOX. Or:~e Foot in the Groove C'...LENDi\.R TO!UOI'l'OW 10:00 a. m. -- Dai:ly Assembly, Wi\!Jiam R. Kreusl, '42, \Outing You Forgot Ahnut Me and G()ne I Club\ Memorial Cha·pel. But Not Forgotten-Bob Crosb:, 1 . 3:30-5:30 p. m.- Glee Club Re- snd his Orchest·ra. My, my, never , hea1sal, Hanna Hall thought we'd find a record that 5;00-6:00 p. m.-Public Speaking offers a musical debate. And for I Class, Old Cha·pel only 35c! The second number, be- Thm·sday-SlUlday ing gone but not forgotten, is the THANKSGIVING REC-ESS same tune of a song ca!Ied My ln- '. Monda;y, November 25 spiratlon which was recorded by 1 ::!lasses resumed. Mr. C some time ago. Honest. Two 7:30 p. m.-Philomathean Soci- Dr~ams Met and Our Love Affair- . ety, Silliman Han Tony Martin and F1·ances Langford. 1 H t 7:30 .p. m. -- Band Rehearsa, Combining sex-ap.peals, \ ea1· - Gymnasium Throb\ Martin and \B1ondie\ Lang- ford make these senile tunes not 'l'.uesday, N{)vember 26 unpleasant. If you like duets on 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, The this sot t of thin·g, Band, Mem0ria1 Chapel 8:3::> p. m.-Civic Music Associa· Cosquillas and Fiestecita - Sa- tion, Rachmaninoff, Plaza casas Royal Havana Orchestra Weclnesday, November 27 Ideal tongue and hip twisters. lO:OO a. m.-Daily Assembly, Ar- Frenesi and A Song of Old Ha- mand V. Feigenbaum, '42 wail-Woody Herman and his Or- Memorial Chapel. chestra. Doing his ·bit .for our gooc 3 ;30-5 :30 p. m.- Glee Club Re- neighbor policy, Mr. H pays tri·bute hearsal, Hanna Hall to Mexico and Hawaii in a thor- 3:00-6:00 p. m.-PubJi.c Speaking oughly satisfactory manner. The Class, Old Chapel first side c.:ontains English lyrics 7:00 p. m.-:Srble Study Group, for those who care to know what home of Professor and Mrs it's all about. Warren C. Tay.Jor, 38 Union Set> What the Bo~ s in the Bacl' A venue Room Wil\l Have and The Lonesom- 7:30 p m. - Student Council ~st Gal in Town-Teddy Grace W·ith Meeting. Washburn Hal'!, Bud Freeman and his Summa Cmr. Room 2 Laude Orchestra. Despite her ad- 8:00 p. m.-Count Carlo Sforza mirable talents Miss Gra:ce is no lecture; \A r is t·o c ra-cy and Marlene Dietrich and consequently Classes in Em·ope-The Con- the \A\ side is not especially weli trast with America\. suited to her voice. The platter- Thursday, November 28 mate, however does give her oppor- 10:00 a. m. _ Daily Assem'bly ~unity to display her admirable ta·I- Count Carlo Sfotza, \Democ- ents admirably. Well supported by racy is Better\ Memorial the scholar band. Chapel. You've Got Me This Wa~· and T~1c 7:30 p. rn.-PyrA-id Club meet· Bad Humor Man-J,immy Dorse~ ing, Silliman Hall and his Orchestra. There ought to 8:00 p. m. - Faculty Woman's be a law against melodies like the Club. Gym Class, Gymnasimr. first song and titles like the second Frida~·. November 29 They're .both from Kay Kyser's ne\ 10:00 a. m. ·-D 1 iJy AsseP\blv. n\ film, so what else could you expect? E'mcr A. Tidmarsh, Memorial l<IOTICE Chapel. All those students who signified i , , , their desire to contribute to the Rad 10 Workshop So!Jc1ts American Red Cross, ~uring the .re- News Broadcast Material cent Campus Chest DriVe, who w1sh , Red Cross buttons, are 1·equested to : The Radio Workshop sent last c~l! .fa!\ th.em at the Student As· i week some 140 letters to publicity ~rvrtles. Offtee toda~, tomorrow, .or , directors in American colleges re- ~mmedtately followmg Thanksgtv-1 questing material fot· use on its col- mg recess. · lege news program, \From the ~---- o----·-- · Campus,\ the executive committee NOTICE announced yesterday. Material for All tint marking period sch.)Jar- the broadcast has been received by ship reports will be ready for dis- the Workshop throughout the sum- tribution tomorrow morn·ing. Stu- mer and early fall, and the letters dents shculd report to their fac- in many cases will serve merely as ULty advisers at that time to obtain I\eminders to the publicity men, the the marks. committee said. Get More fun Ou~ oi ~our S\lorts, Work, S~~ta\ llfe- Cbew De\\ctous . DOUBlEM\NT GUM Dat\1 Y where d women ever h Alert college m~n an al-mint flavor . · ... t e enjoy the refreshlng, re of healthful, dehclous velvety smoothness .. , DOUBLEMINT GUM. ·oymg this refresh- Just see for yourself hoe~ ~~lng you do. Chew- ing treat adds fun to evdaJY helps relieve your . g DOUBLEMINT GU~ helps sweeten your ;ent-up nervous te~:~:eth 'attractive. Aids your .. breath and lceep yo . . digestion, too. GUM i:l inexpenslve, Popular DOUBL~MINT wholesome, satisfymg. OUiSlEMml GUffi today ~uyseveral pac\l.ages o1 D U·\· l F~ tear Dut and doir just son hav Nel: at t taki Ho1 KP Hal poi-r and D ina1 aro· Jac ilto: the1 two On the tim con puu II T Rt hal the per ten for t the 1 > on Un gai ' .... fou b. a blc for str £CO Br poi 1 ch~ its• Qu for sn~ sec foe do· Di~ ne: thl sec poi 1 t Cf tai ry thl Bl1 of thl ov; 1 RE bo th• nit Sh ba 'ti th an a ed ni ed in1 H: ri< Gt Sli B~ Sa G< St St B< V< N< Ez UJ H: cu ar 0

bly, ing ing sal, Ar- '42 bly eet- n .. last re- s col- the for by sum- s as the THE CONCOlWlENSIS, TUESDAY, NOVEl\IBER lH, HJ-.10 Pfl.ge Five UNION BOWS TO HAMilTON ·1N FINAL CONTEST E!>>------- ---------- -------- --~·--·-- I Continenta·ls Score T wi·ce In Third Period To S.mothe:r Dutchmen 1'3-0 1 Statistics, Highligh-ts, Lowlights That A Casual Specta-tor Misses: By JOHN P. LEWIS I Pal:il Quinn Named !Captain of X Country Paul Quinn, '43, of Schenectady, N. Y., has been elected captain of the vanity cross-country team for Union Loses First Period Cha:nce to Score; Once again the old adges-·the ed Continental passing attack re- the season of 1941, the Athletic one about the statistics and the mained poten.Ual. In fact it was, Department announced las.t week. Naylor a.nd Petronio Ta:lly for Hamilton game and the other about the un- Kenny Sharpe, con,verted Union Quinn, the first sophomore to be ·----- __ -· predictability of a Hamilton-Union quarterback and surprise right end, elected to the honor in the history Fe·r ten years Hamilton foo'tball teams have been trying to beat the Dutchmen on their home grounds and Saturday they succeeded in doing just that. The Garnet has just gone through the worst sea- son they have known since they have been under the mentors hip of Nels Nitchman. The record stands at three victories and five defeats, taking Havet·ford, Middlebury and Hobart and loeing to Vermont, K.P.I.. Will:iam», Rochester and Hamilton. The total number of points chalked up by Union was 64 and by· their opponents 117. During the first half Union dom- inated the play with good all- around foot·ball playing. Co-Captain Jack Vannier intercepted a Ham- ilton forward and the Blue put themselves at a disadvantage with two poor punts of 17 and six yarcls. On the basis of their early drive the Dutchmen out-pointed the Con- tinentals as far as statistics are concerned in everything except punt returns. ~ Stati.stics of Game< scrap -were verifi'ed Saturday. AI- who as a receiver procvided the of the ~port at Union, succeeds though it may be a bit hard to afternoon's mo,;t imtriguing aerial Co-Captains Donalcl Collins and U H take, the records tell us that that maneuvers. As for the running- Adfur Maines, both seniors. Fi.rst downs ............... 12 10 contest we set in on the other aft- the Continentals marched better un- Quinn attended Mont Pleasant Fh.st downs rus·hing . . . . . . 8 8 er noon was the Dutchmen's affair aer poor old Charles Lee at Brandy- ·High School, where he captained First dowhE passing . . . . . . . 3 2 fi•om start to finish except fo·r the wine Creek. Hamilton fa·ns were the track teap1 in the spring of First downs penalties . . . . . . 1 0 breaks, the score, ana a while at shouting the praises of Messers. 1938, and was a member of the Total net yards gained in the start of the third quarter. For Jannone, Wi·Hiams, and Leaven- Student Council and the staff of the scrimmage .............. 223 186 a while Iii the first half after the worth as they crowded out of the news publication there. At Union Net yards· gained in referee decided he wanted to run gates, but as a matter of fact he was a member of both the rushing ................. 155 132 interference for Jack Williams, the W·illiams averaged only 2.75 yards Freshman Cross-country and Trac:, Net yards gained passing .. 68 56 Continental<'' halfback, and thereby every time he carried the oval, Jan- teams. He is pledged to the Delta Forward passes attempted. 17 6 contributecl to Hamilton's getting none cracked the line for 1.6 yards Upsilon fraternity. Forward passes completed. 6 2 pushed back to its own 20, it l.:>oked a try, and Leavenworth turned the Quinn's election marks the first Passes intercepted by . . . . . 1 3 as though Lady Luck was wearing ends for an average of .65 of a junior capta·incy of a varsity sport Number of punts .. , . . . . . . . 6 7 Garnet, but the il'lusion wore off yard a try. Ed Enstice, back in since 1938, when Billy Thomas, '39. Average d·istance of punts .. 30 25 as soon as the bands bowecl out to backfield stars, such as they were. captained the varsity baseball ___ the returning warriors. early season form, easily paced the teacm. He was' one of the four men, Basketball T earn Begins Practice Three crucial mistakes were at He reeled off 5.5 yards on his ave1·- besides Collins and Maines, to re- least the imminent causes of the age line-plunges, and, particularly ceive a Block \U\ award for the two Hami-lton touchdowns. After during the first half, kept things season just completed. Others re- the Buff and Blue has crashed hopping with a long gain in nearly ceiving the award were Robert down toward the Union goal aft~r every series of downs. Reed, '42, Charles Snell, '43, and their interception of Vannier's pass It was a tough day for Jack Robert Shepherd, '43. With the end of the football sea- at the beginning of the third - ----- - -~- ----~---- son la:ot Saturday, Head Coach Nel- stanza, only to be set back on their ia_~~~i~;--hi:n:w~~~-:_:il~·e ~~~~u~\o~~ i,_~:.~:.:;;;;;;mm:m;;;;m:;:::mm::m:::;m;:m::mm;;;:;:;;·':'.:,;,,i son W. Nitchman turned fram heels by a gallant stiffening of C ·1 F' ld AI · G n_le of fumbles and the missing of a ouncr te to umm ymna- the thin red line at the 10 yard hole in the middle of -the third !,=_;,i, The El.ITE 1,1,,1 sium and took charge of varsity narker, Bob Molloy made one of b k b 11 k f h fi t q uarter, he ran with the same ... ... as et a . wor outs ot· t e ·rs the twu bad flips that marred his ;:; m t ·m est erda Wt'th all player• d' d f . d th speed and certainty as to his desti- ::: TAl LQ R ::: 1 e y y. ~ poun tng e enstve game, an e ·::: ::: t . nation that has been bolstering ... . .. axpected o report for practtce now erstwhile gallant forward wall :.:.~ i.i.i. b 11 · h d 'II the waning Garnet attack in the that foot a IS over, t e squa WI sagged badly-this all at once to ::: ::: Fencing Ca:ndidates Report for Practice ·Eighteen men responded to the fir~t call for candidates for the fenc- ing team laEt week. Of the men who reported, all but three have had previous experience, according to Warren Kimmey, '41, who will be in charge of the team's workouts un- til January. Kimmey will \fill in\ for Coach Merton L. Zubres, who will not commence his official duties until eat·ly next year. Drills until then will su·ess fundamentals, with little or nl:J actual combart work, Kimmey said. The men who t·eported at last week's meeting were: Herman, Kimmey, Fishel', Birdsal'l, Moore, Vellie, Goldberg, Bakal, Maxwell, Varancas Jankowski, Kohn, Tom- 1-irison, Hull, Stillson, Thomson, J·ohnson, and Corenzo. IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State Street -Our Service is Ideal -Just Try One Haircut Intercepted Pass Sets Up Score The Hamilton team EeLtled down at the beginning of the second half and scored all of its points in the first six minutes of the third ncriod. Tackle Mel Richards in- terce~t.f>d Vannier's pass intended for Guibert and set up the first t - n in 5ix plays. Starting on the Union 47, Hamilton drove to the 1 J o2.ore relinquishing the ball on a fourth down pass, giving Union the ball. Vannier failed to gain in two tries at the line and '-~, trving- to punt from his own four yard line when the whole hamilwn forward wall rushed in blccked it. Art Naylor recovered for the Blue on the two yard stripe and cracked the line for the ecore on the next play. Tackle Phil Bristol converted for the extra point. soon reach full streng-th as Nitch- ::ause the blocked kick which set preceding four games, but his 111 516 Union Street m h h h d ·1 d '11 blockers never remembered to keep man puts t em t roug at y r1 s up the initial score. And the other h ff Hj Hi '' prior to the Garnet five's first game error was of course one of the ahead of him. The at goes o to ... ... Pass for SPcond Score Two minutes later after an ex- change of punts, Hamilton found itself with the ball on Union's 47. Quartet'b.ack Butch Petronio sent a forward to Jack Williams who had sneaked by Sherman in the Union secondary, who went to the one foot line before he was brought down by a ~: hoestring tackle by Dick Balch, the safety man. On the next play, Petronio knifed through the Union right tackle for the scme. Bristol's ldck for the extra poin~ failed. Late in the game the Hamilton team threatened again when Cap- tain Hatch intercepted one of Sher- ry Hillick's last minute passes on the Union 20. The Garnet held the Blue drive to within three yards of a first down and a moment later the game ended with Union on their own 35. Union's big chance came whe:> Ralph Leavenworth punted out of bounds on his own 36 midway in the first period. A pass from Van- nier t'o gifted Sophomore Ken Sharpe went 17 yatds and put the ball on the Hamilton 20. Ed En- ' tice plunged the ball to the 11. On the next play Vannier attempted an end run and was pulled down for a nine yard loss and the drive end- ed on the Hamilton 14. The Van- nier-Sharpe paes combination click- ed all through the first half, keep- ing Union in the game until the Hamilton ·tallies in the third pe- dod. Union- Hamilton Guibert ........ L.E.. . . . . . . . . Eddy Slingerland ..... L.T ....... Richards Baker .......... L G ......... Ogilby Sawyer ......... C ........... Hatch Gold:blatt ....... R G .......... Hoch Shaw .......... R.T ..... Lammerts Sharpe ......... R E ...... Bearcs] ey Balch .......... Q.B. ...... Petronio Vannier ........ L H ... Leavenworth Notri.s ......... R.H ...... Williams Enstice ......... F.B ......... Naylor Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 0~ 0 Hamilton ........... 0 0 13 0~13 December 14, againft Midcllebury, aame occasional but utter lapse~ in Dick Balch for his last grand de- l,l,E,· Tuxedos for Rent l,l,l, h fensive game, to Jack Guibert and at ome. the Garnet pass defense which ac- Eob Baker for their usually bril- m Hi For the past two weeks, the squad counted for two opponent tallies :iant performances. ... E T 1 .. , has been holding informal drills in the Vermont game. The fact that tht's Un!'on Hamx\l;: ·,-',E;:_._ xpert ai oring:' .,::'.,.',: each day, with Johnny Moffat, Gar- Aside from that one fateful Pet- · - - net court performer of a few years ronio to Williams fling, the vaunt- cContinued on Page 4) t~L;;;;;::;:m::::::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:::mm:mm:m:mm;m;~\ ago, filling in as ceach. ---- ---------~-- Loot from last year's team were Captain Her,b Watson, Larue Bu- chanan, Harry Palmer and Sam Hammerstrom, but the appeat·ance of considerable speed in the person of sophomore material augurs well for the Dutchmen's 1940-41 success. Key men in the rebuilding of this year's team will undoubtedly be C~o-Captains AI Turchick and Mickey Rathlev, who will be ex- pected to direct the team's offen- sive and defeno;ive maneuvers. Re- turning with considerable basket- ball experience are Benny Jakobow- ski, fast forward, along with Jack Vannier and Lee Sherman, all holdovers from last winter's squad. Newcomers to the squad are sopho- mores Paul Santee, who was a members of last year's freshman swimming team, Ronnie Macomber, Ted Vinick, Bob Carnwright, and Hank Wysocki, up from AI Ciam- pa's yearling court squad of a year ago, Also expected to report from the football team is Jack Guibert, a senior, who did not play last year. Present indications point to a \first five·· consisting of Turchick, Rathlev, Jakabowski, Wysocki, and eithet· Carnwright or Macomber. Early workouts have evidenced worlds of speed from this combi- nation, which however lacks· the height provided last year by Wat- son. F 0 R Arrow Shirts Free Delivery Phone 4-7 445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • Intramural Standings, Nov. 11, 1940 1. Phi Gamma Delta ..... . 294.873 SILVER DINER 2. Delta Upsilon .......... . 207180 Erie Boulevard 3. Sigma Phi ............. . 4. Theta Delta Chi .. , .... . 5. Kappa Alpha .......... . 206.757 Quality Food - Always Oper. 197.609 1 One Step frorr State Stree1 194.i85 6. Kappa Sigma .......... . 192.748 7. Chi Psi ................ . 191.885 8. Phi Delta Theta ....... . 9. Psi Upsilon ............ . 10. Delta Phi ............. . 182.556 176.468 Interested in Schenectady 173.2761 Interested itt lJNION 11. Sigma Chi ............. . 12. Kappa Nu ............. . 13. Beta Theta Pi ......... . 148.686 I MAURICE B. GRAUBART 145.000 The Jay Street Jewele1· 140.847 14. Neutrals ............... . 133 848 166 JAY STREET 15 Alpha Delta Phi ...... . 16. Phi Sigma Kappa ...... . 17. Phi Sigma Delta ....... . 133.700 Watch and Jewelry Repairi11g 105.000 96.667 a Specialty 18 Delta Chi .............. . 19. South College .......... . 20. North College ......... . 66.667 PARKER & SHEAFFER 58.333 PENS 500:JO 21. Alpha Phi Delta ....... . THE SECRET OF SUSSEX Arrow $2 Shirts up Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp .. Look what we've COLLARED! W E'VE GOTTEN OUR hands on the year's hand- somest shirts: Arrows, with the slickest patterns and the best-looking collars. We rec. ommend especially Arrows with the Kent (wide-spread) collar • • • and the Dover (button-down) collar. Come and get some today, $2, up. Dan A. Donahue Clothing 240·242 State Street Nothing succeeds like Sussex CAMPUS BIGWIGS who corral most of the extra· curricular honors without half trying, are usual· ly the guys that are pretty well dressed. It's a cinch they're Armw addicts. Arrow shirts and tics do things for yon. Officials-ill, J. Kearney, <Syra- cuse), referee; E. W. Dunn, (Ad- ams), umpire; C. E. Moynihan, ~Middlebury l head linesman. I cpp. cld armory open evenings I OUk MOTTO ''Quality - Service Satisfaction 11 T HE Sussex type collar is the current fa· vorite on every campus. It is definitely a young man's collar, cut on a low drape template, the square points flare away from the tie knot and are moderately wide-spread, held rigid by a celluloid insert which may be removed if desired. Better get one today while they last. In white, colors, and striped patterns with plain or French cuffs. All neck sizes and sleeve lengths. Come in today be- tween classes l Take that new Arrow Sussex shirt with wide- spread collar-a hand- somer shirt was never designed fot· $2. It's a honey! 0 Haberdashery \as you like it\ ' 598 B'way- For Better Values lj 704 ALBANY ST. ICE CREAM DAIRY PRODUCTS WM. GREEN JRo DAIRY 1701 Union St. Tel. 3·2161 ';:==================================~1.1 See it today in the new candy stripes , , . 5 <lif- erent colors with ties ($1.) and handker· chiefs ( 35c) to aid and abet it. ARROIY SHIRTS

Page Four Beer Operates Student Agency New Laundry Service Arranged for Campus By Railway Express A very Beer, '42, and the Student Employment Bureau are co-o.per- atinE; in an experimental agency f';0r>-kc nn th<' ra-m puB, Mi•• Fmn- .: cis Travis, director, said today. This,. service, a pick-up-and-delivery of bunJt) c;.tscs lc'-!Uitin,; almost no · student effort, is being developed in conjunction with Railway Ex- press to see if other such services qan be established for deserving students. Tho Employment Bureau and Beer have arranged for special daily pick up of laundry cases at fraternity houses and from a cen- tra:! point in each dormitory. This also insures daily delivery. Mi,;s Travis pointed out that Beet, as well as othPr campus agents for local organizations, are working their way through college and are deserving of student sup- port_ This is thP first national or- ganization to be rppresented on the campus and tht' Student Employ- ment Bureau is watching the suc- cess of this one to see if others may bo established, Miss Tra vi£ said. ------- -0- - Delta Upsilon Wins Trophy for Display <Continued from Page 1) window threatened that Hamilton was \Out like a ContinentaL\ Phi Gamma Delta erected a seven foot tombstone \In memory of the Hamilton College football te1m which fought and lost its bat- tle with Union College, November 16, 1940.\ Psi Upsilon had a striking grave- yard exhibit, each cross bearing the name of a Hamilton first ::tring- er, the coach mourning. the loss of his men. Signs proclaimed that Union would \Beat the H out of Hamilton.\ Oldgym dormitory extended Chap- lain Herb Houghton's canoe from an attic 'Vindow with a Hamilton man in it, an old inner tube en- circling him while he awaited the '-rapids ahead for Hamilton.\ South College painted Beat Ham- ilton on its front windows. Theta Delta Chi had an effigy of Hamilton seated in an Plectric chair on its roof \Sentenced to death November 16, 1940.\ while nearby Phi Sigma Kappa preferred to \I-hng the Hamilton Ha~\'l'eed.\ Sigma Chi, likewise used a stuffed figure representing the Continen- tals. Their man had \one foot in the grave and the other slipping.\ Filling a foot deep trench which they dug in their front lawn will be a weighty task for some fresh- man. Delta Chi displayed a cloc;( in- dicating that 2 p.m. was thP time to Deat Hamilton. Alpha Delta Phi hung from a tree in their front lawn, a figure \for whom the bell tolls.\ A card- board football husky repeated that \they shall not pas.\ A traffic sig- nal ove1· the front walk continual-ly flashed red. Sigma Phi had two nov!'! exhibits. One was a bath tub with the ad- vice that \Hamilton is all washed up\ and the other an old fashioned privy admitting that \on the whole, Hamilton. you're all right.\ Delta Phi laid out a football field with line markers spelling \Beat Hamilton.\ Other signs gave the Union-Hamilton game srores s-ince 1914. A lawn roller in. front of a straw man threatened to CHEMISTRY CLUB LUNCHER The Chemistry Club is this year inaugura-ting a new plan of hold- ing its meetings every Tuesday noon, instead of the usual evening meetings held last year, it was an- nounced this week by members of the club. A further change in the policy of the club makes the meet- ings open to all students interested in the activities of the organiza- tion. In the past only students who were candidates for the Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry or for the Bachelor of Atts degree in Chemistry were invited to attend. The club's meetings are held in thu chemistry lecture room on Thursdays from 12:20 until 1:30 p. m. Each person who attends the meeting~ brings his own lunch. PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy Nitchman Sends Thanks To Loyal Supporters ro the Editor of The :!oncordiensis: THE CONCORDIENSlS, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1940 Alumni Monthly Issued Featuring Articles By Patterson, '12, and FoJ£ I Fox, W ainger Contribute 1 To Book on New York nals, bridges-all the evidences of an active and enlightened life. For · the visitor it is an introduction to the Empire State; for the people Union CoUege has a two-fold in- of New York It is ia the nature of The Nove.rrrber issue of the Alum- •--·· --~----· -· --------- terest in \New York: A Guide to a self-portrait.\ To those who have stood be- hind the· team so loyaJoly through- out the season just past I wish to express my sincere thanks. Despite the handicaps of playing on a foreign field and the suf- fering of constant injm·ies which caused a gradual slump you have stood by us nobly. We hupt: you will sustain the same interest in the futuz e and that you will call upon any of us di-t \\ tl) LOilllc..: leu \i'lh y out football team if you need our aid in any particular one of your own endeavors. ni Monthly made its appeara11ce i Chal'lie Waldren's regular feature the Empire State,\ th:e WP:A guide- Union College is described as a Saturday bound in a ted cover with .. 'Twas Here the Oi'd Alumni Sat\ book published today by the Ox-· \·pioneer ·institution, second incm- a ~icture of Robert Patterson, '12, peers into Jonathan Pearson's diary ford Un-iversity Press. As director porated col-lege in New York State, asststant. Secretary of War, on the in regard to Dr. E!iphalet Nett's of the New Yorlr State Writers' mother of college fraternities .... front of 1t. Tw~ ch~nges have been presidency. After db;cl!lssing the Project, Professor Bertrand M. The lasting tradition of Union Col- made ;n the edtt~rtal board. of t~e Finance Committee of the college Wainger edited the vo1ume through lege is- one of close companionship magazme, one bemg the ed1ter·sh1p Dr. Waldron enters into a consider- aH its stages'; and the introduction, betw.een facu-l-ty and student.\ . of the .Spor~s section c.hanging ation of the controversy during Dr. \The New York Countryside,\ was South College, the Library, the hands from B1B Ketz, associate pro- Nott's regime --that of an investiga- written by President Dixon Ryan Chapel, and Jackson's Garden re- fessor of athletics. to Gus Fox. as- tiorl hv rt rnrnwit.tPP nf thP .RtatP Fox, who as president of the New celve special mention. Ramee's uni- sistant pro:5essor of Mathematics; I Senntt; in regaJd to his lot_ tery ac- Y0rk State Historical Association, fled plan for the campu:: is dcscriob- a!so A. Br adfox:d Wy-ckoff has been tivities. He quotes t-he opinion \the is also official sponsor of the book. ed in the essay on Architecture as namPrl Prnmnttnn MRn,.gPt' nf thP tnFtrr~ wrl'r , \rt nf nlrl wnm<'n It contains more than 800 pages, ···a:n unexpected a-nd unique .ex- periodical. . . . . only fit to wear caps and be Jed with 1U4 1Hustratwns and 111 maps. ample of the 'Rornan R~vlval. ... The f;at~re a1't1cle ef th1s 1ssue 1s around by the nose by a shrewd The compreheru;ive cha-racter of Ramee's noble disposition of col- • Signed> Nels Nitchman Highlights, Lowlights Missed by Spectators <Continued from Page 3) ton rivalry is different than any- thing ebe we run up against all season was emphasized by the con- sta:nt grino with which tackler greeted tackled as one or the other was yanked to his feet. by the handshakes that Guibert gut from his opponents a>' he wae helped off the field in the fourth quarter, by the interchange of cheers and alma maters. The relationship is something we could ill afford to lose. FinaJ.Iy we are requested to re- 1)0rt that the events of the after- noon--all but those of the first half )f the first quarter, when the phone was on the blink-were relayed di- :ectly to a joint meeting of the Hamilton and Union Alumni As- sociation,;. At half-time, still un- agitated by the scoring, the grads listened contentedly to words of -'ood cheer from Willkieites Fox and Crowley. 'Steamroller Hamilton.'' Delta Phi was the only fraternity where The :oncot diensis observed a sign tc '\Velcome Hamilton.\ Phi Delta Thet had a l::trge pos- ~er claimin~ that \The Continentals ':>eat the Brithh but they cant stop .mr Blitzkrieg.\ Kappa Sigma hung a HamJlto •. !ffigy from their flagpo!e while a 15 foot b:mner invoked the team to \Beat Hamilton\ Phi Sigma Delta had sever·al battered fender::; hanging from an upper story window with a sign 'tJnion Wre::!kers, Inc. Wreck Ham- tlton·s Machine.\ The Kappa Nu exhibit wa;; a headless Hamilton figure laying across a chopping block with his head lying on the ground and an axe in the block. A live turl,ev was :>n the other side of a sign· read- ing ·'Give 'em the Axe. Hamilton :'-l•ow, Turkey Next.\ Beta Theta Pi painted \Put the ;kids on Hamilton\ on the bottom of a. toboggan. A window bore the legend \It's cm·tains for Harllil- ton.\ The Chi Psi',; hung two huge dice near their roof top. Sigm urged \Come on --\ and \You bet they're :oaded.\ -- ------------1 DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM We Serve Beter Food for Better Health 118-UO JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall I I I I I a co~tnbu~twn by Robert Patterson leader telling them what to think the book is suggested by the fol\ lege buildings surround a wide In his artiCle Judge Patterson dis- and when to vote yea.\ He then lowing quotatiea from Governor ma:ll, dominated by a classical ~usses industrial mobilization acnd makes the statement that since Herbert H. Lehman's forward: .rotunda, a:nd ·flanked by fine for- the college in which. he _outlines the then the president's funds have \Here -in this book, are described mal gardens has been unjustly plans for the coordmatlon between been , 1 ,ept separate from the funds s-ide by side, as they occur on city overshadowed by Jefferson's later the vV~r D~~artment. a~d colleges of the college proper. street~ or along state highwa:ys, University of Vi-rg-inia.\ The illus~ a;t~ _umversltte.s: He mdiCates that Editor Daniel Weeks . 28 , intro- great ind•ustrial plants, bread farm trations include an aerial view of cJvlhan and m1lltat·y pexsonnel will duces Gus Fox as the new Athletic lands, welfare institutions, parks the canipus and· several sho.ts of be sent to educational institutions Editor with a shott biographical ancl. ·bathing beac~es, co!lege~, manufacturing processes in Sche- in order to aid them in the train- sketch of our former assistant foot-! chl!lrches, battle. sttes, .. h1st-onc nectady's General Electric .olant. ing of students for technical jobs <ball coach. The sport~ section in , structures of at\Chttectural tnterest, which are essential to national de- eludes write-ups on the Haverford, museums of art and science, ca- fense. However he is careful to IviiddlebutJ\ and Vermont games ---~--·-- point out that the Wa·t· Department with conesponding pictures. An- has no intention of taking over the other pot·tion is devoted to fresh- operation. of the higher educational man football, cross-country, and the institutions. Congress has been ask- problem of the lack of football re- ed to appropriate $30 000,000 for this SE'I'ves. pxogram in the coming year, he A new feature of the magazine is declares. In addition Judge Patter- a page devoted te the activities of son discusses the committees of the son,; of old alumni entitled \Sitting American Council of Education Where Their Dads Have Sat.\ which is studying ways and means Also noteworthy is the informa- of mobilizing the country's educa- tion concerning ca:mpus highlights tional resources. and general news of interest which President Fox has written an is included in the Month!''· article for the magazine in which There is the usual se~tion con- he discusses the prog-ress made by taining notes on faculty and alumni the festival since its inception. He which mentions the activities and also discusses the enroUment in- honors bestowed apon the faculty crease ·and the recognition that the and news of alumni ranging from festival has reecivC'd by several in- the class of 1866 to 1940. stitutions. A statement is also made All in all this issue does not dif- in 1 egard to the financial losses in- fer very much from past issues, CUlTed during the past season, and but the recent changes and new Dr. Fox suggests the possibility that additions seem to make its presen- there will be no festival in 1941. tation more effective. EXCURSION TO NEW YORK Dr. Langsam to Address Women's Organization Dr. Walter Consuela Langsam, professer of history, will address the monthly meeting of the Sche- nectady Branch of the American Association of University Women tomorrow a-fternoon on \The Med- iten·anean Area.\ He will be in- troduced by Mrs. Helmer Webb, wife of the college librarian. The meeting win be held at 3:30 o'clock at the Y. W. C. A. Call Ball and Ball Will Call Round trip tickets to New Ym k City are available from Solomon Blechman, '42, 5 ;),1. S. N. C. for $5.10, a dollar under the regular price. However. ever·ybody muet travel to New York together and the group will leave Schenectad:v at 2:30 tomorrow. The return pm:- tlon of the tickets are good on any regular train stopping at Schenec- tady any time within 30 days. Money must be in by chapel time tomorrow. opp. cld armory open evenings 1ElillUirr ~ru'n e1111P Smokers like yourself find CHESTERFIELDS 12!I!Y refreshing with their Haberdashery \as you like it\ i04 ALBANY ST. r---~------------------1 !DOUW F. B~EEKMANl . : I Gasoline - Brake Ser11ice : • • l U.S. Tires - Motor Tune-up 1 l Exides - Lubrication I • • t I : 60 I UNION STREET I • • I Open Until II P. M. I I I ~-------------------~--J PHONE 6-3456 Unquestionably Favored! COOLER BETTER TASTE ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 LOUIS WASSERMAN Every time you light up a Chesterfield you know why it is called the Smoker's Cigarette. It's because Chesterfield~s right combination of the finest to- baccos grown gives you every- thing a smoker could ask for ... a cooler, better taste that is definitely milder. Youcan'tbuy a better cigarette. QUALITY MEAT MARKET 345 Broadway Phones 4-3364, 4·3365 GAZETTE PRESS Printers SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR ,., .... .,~. v J..tGGETT & MYERs TooAcco Co. ELLEN DREW Paramo~nt Star and 1940 Choice fo.- iss Veteran of F'oreign Wars, soon to appear in \Texas Rangers Ride Again\ r 1 ( 1 u VI e· 0 a p fi C• s: p ( t I a I f a r I '] ( e l

of on to of as a State, Col- the re- uni- scJ'i.b- as .ex- eel- wide ssical for- justly later ill us~ of of Sche- I I I I up I tion I I i I I II • l :; • Council Seniors R8peals ']· Lead i; Key System Deans List Z-511 Vol. LXIV., No. 19 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEl\IBER 29, 1940 PRICE FIVE CENTS Ca~miUe Stane:sk.a, Festival Sta:r To Direct Mounteban:ks P:roduction Tryouts for New Play To Be Next Week; Show to Go on Road ·!----------- Cami:.Je Staneska, the Broadwa} a8tress whose splendid charactei- i~ations have for two years made her knewn to audiences at the Mo- hawk Dt arna Fe.stival, wHl arzi·ve · on the campus next week to s·uper- v:se casting of the Mounteba·nks production of Nikolai Gegol's saUric farce, \The Inspector General.\ Miss Staneslm has been engaged to direct the production which wiH be staged on March 22 23 and 25 be- fme t3.king to the road .for a week of one night .stands during spring vacation. A cast of more than 20 characters cal:s fot a large number of tr:~oouts whe wiH report to the M:mnteb:mks theatre at 7:30 next Saturday and Sunday evenings December 7 and 8 As in the past, the fema•le leads will be taken by Schenectadiar.s. Miss Staneska may act in ene of the feminine parts of which the1 e a1·e four, three for younger women and one for an older person. Gordon Rust, facu:ty advisor, pointed out the added acting expet\ience to he gained should the director consent to taking a part. Severa•! copies of the play have been pla~ed on rese1·ve in the col- lege li-btary and prospective tryouts are urged to read the play and de- cide which parts they wish to tr} for. Mr. Rust emphasized that al- though the play will not be staged until Ma1ch, no other tryout periods will be held. The spring produc- t:on is the most ambitious of the season and a great deal of time will be put. on the production to shape it for the road trip. Need of Actors Mountebanks Director Dean Announ(es Scholarshi:p List Seniors Lead With 76; Freshmen Rank 4th, Placing Only 43 Men A tota-l of 239 men, 36 more than lor the first ma·rklng period last year, received an index of 3.00 or more according to the list released ruesday by Dean Charles F. F. 3aris\ Of the 239, 76 a1e seniors, 65 are juniors, 55 ate sophomores and 13 are freshmen. At the same time last year, the list was made up of o9 seniors, 7 less than this yeat·, 52 juni01 s, 60 sophomores and 43 fresh- men. CLASS OF 1941 na.che!or of Arts-Robert D. Arn- old, Llo> d Bartholomew. Paul W. Becker, Leland L_ Beik, Richard L. 3ri~kley, Charles J. Bruesch, Jr., Albert S, Callan, Jr., Robert R. Cal- :Mr. Rust stressed the need of all lande1, Robert P. Coolidge, *James undergraduates who have had or C. Cooper, *Albert A. Davis, III, would like to have acting experi- Ladislav Dejnozka, John H. Eng- ence to try out for the play. \Many !ish, Wil:iam K. Flynn, Robert W. of the actors in the 'Road to Rome Frelick, Melvin F_ Gerritz, Robert are unsuited to ·pat ts in the new L Gilston, Boyd E. Golder. play,\ he s::tid. \In casting we often Manuel Green, Dickinson E. Grif- find an amazing adaptation for a fith, Jr.. Thomas E. Hannon, certain part in a person who has 3eorge W. Hemstead, II, *Robert S\ shown no a~ting ability in othe1 Herman, George D. Holmes, Hall'y pla~s.\ 3. House, Paul H. Howe, Warren !'The Inspector General\ although ::=:. Kimmey. Salv< tore P. LaCerva placed by Gogo! in l9th centur} • John P. Lewis, Lecn:ud C. Mac- l~ussia, is the eternal and universal \tenzie Jr., Adfur E. Maines, Jr., theme of official dishonesty and Raymond F. Male, William J. Noo- human s~upidit:y as rellected in the nan, James A. O'Connor. government of ~\ sm!:ll town. Crack- Gordon H. Parket·, Cu:ton R. ling dialo&ue, -brislt j:a~e and su-I Payne, Jr .. Philip s\ Potter, .Jr. perb charactc1iza:tion rr:al{e a com-~ rh8mas Pritchard, Robert A. Qumn, bination which has prov:ded the:J.- John W. Reid, Daniel W. Roe tre a:udiences ail over the world • John A. Ruskowski, Winston A. with a great experience. In its act- Saunders, *Llo}d M. Schloop, Las- ing version by Jed Han·is in 1930 kar Schwartz, Louis Semenoff which the Mountebanks will follow, James G. Shaw, Ernest A. Staley the play's cast inc! uced Dorothy Milton H. Sugarman, Leonard A. Gish, J. Edward Bromberg and Taylor, *David V. Tiedeman *Alex· Ronny Brent. :J.ndet· Turchick, James E. Twining, Miss Stancska has become famil-\ Jr, William H. Walker, Austin H. iar to Schenectady audiences in two White. seasons with the Mohawk D1ama BS in Civil EnginePring~John F. Festival. In 1939, she played the =:anfield, Dona:Jd A. Collins, Hemy waitress' in \The CoHege Widow\ L. Crosby, Jr., Paul V. Mara Rob- and Mrs. Soame.s in \Our Town\. ert G. Murphy, Hamid 0. Nadler, During the past season she played Thomas C. Smith, Jl'., Edward J. in every production except \Riche-; Ward, lieu\ starring as Hermia in \Mid- BS in Electrical Enginf'ering- summer Night's D1·eam\ and as *Cecil E. Angell, Conr·ad E. Bech- Minnie, the maid in \Biography\. ard, George S. Becker, Harvey F. On Broadway, Miss .Staneska Connor, *Jack W. Danser, John E. played in the production \Anthony Greaney, *Richard C Griffin, Wil- and Cleopatra\ with Tullula:h Bank- Ham G. Murray, Walter E. Plum- head, and played Olga, the concert mer. pian•iEt in \Stage Door.\ At the Ann BS in Chemistry -Robert W. Hob- Arbor Drama Festival, she was in day, Stephen H. Laning, John H. the \Merchant of Venice,\ \Tonight Spittle. at 8:30\ and the \Laughing Worn- BS in Physics -*·Richard G. Gould an.' She was in the touring compa- nies of \Dover Road,\ \The Late Christopher Bean,\ and \Hay Fever.\ ---a---- Schubert Club Pia ns Concert for Next Week CLASS OF 1942 Dachelor of AJts~Raymond E. Aldrich, Jr., Alexander J. Arony, John C. Baas, Jr., Hansjoerg Boll . George W. Clark, Arthur T. Corri- gan, Louis A. Dacundo, William M. . Da,ly, •Maurice Deul, Donald C. Field, Edgar Fishel, Robert D. For- The Schubert Clu·b of Schenec- rest, William C. Garcia, *Delphis C tady will present its fall concert on Goldberg, Stewatt E. Goldblatt, Friday evening, December 5. As Bernard F, Haake, Ro:bert P. Hal- assisting artists the club will have lenbeck, *Frank X. Hasselbacher. Hazel and Evelyn Lenaud, famed Donald W. Hudson, Joseph J. for their piano playing. Jaycox, Edgar I. Keers, *John A. The Lenaud sisters are of Finnish· Kna.pp, Sam G. Kohlenberg, Wil- and French parentage and their Ham A. La-Battaglia, Philip J. Lan- rnother's family enjo:ys a prominent dry, Jr., Keith C. McCandless, Wit- position in the history of Finland, liam E. Morrison, Angus T. MoiTi- They have studied piano under the son, Warren E. Perkins, Justin S eminent Russian virtuoso, Leo Po- Perlstein, •Donald M. Phillips, Fred- dolsky. Their duo-piano concerts erick P. Schmelzer, Gordon J. ·Sem- are well known for their ability as erad, Edward P. Sha.pil'o, John B. musical humot·ists. (Continued on Page <!) G l·ee Club Season Cast Announced Opens at Albany For Christ~na·s Girls' Acade.my Morality Pla·y National Youth Administration Grants (o:ll:ege $10,3 9 5 For Year State Department of Education Must Give Approval Before Aw.ard Can Be Final Group Gives Program Sung in Chapel Nov. 8 As Tonight's Number:s The Glee Club wiH open its 1940- 41 concert season tonight with a jeint program with the Alban~ Academy for Girls at 8 p. m. in Al- bany. Thkty men will make the trip to the capital concert and will leave the campus by bus at 7 p. m. tonight Manager Edmund G. Kell~ anncunced this evening. The pregram will feature two gtoups of songs for mixed voices, one group sung by the Academ~· and one group sung by the Glee Club. The Glee Club will also pre- sent a stunt number. Four numbers which the grour sang in chapel on November 8 wHI be repeated as part of the Unicn program. They are: \The Vicar of Bray,\ an old English song 1 elating the changes of the Vicar of Bray f1 om Anglican to Catholic faith and· from Catholic to Anglican so that he might remain the vicar, \The Minstre!'s Song\ bY Adam de Ia Hale, \Loch Lornand\ the tradi- ticnal Scotch air and the \Cornish Fidler's Song.\ Edward Schulze, '42, will sing the ~olo part of \Loch Lomand.\ Medlp~·s Added The program sung by the Union group will also include a medley of Foster songs and of songs of Union and other colleges. The titles of the numbers to be sung by the Albany Girls Academy have not been re- ceived by the Glee Club Kelly said. Those who will make the trip are: first tenors, Edward Schulze, '4~. Kenneth Mackenzie, '42, Abram F'. Molyneaux, Jr .. '44. Amasa How- land, '44, Robert Horstmann, '42, Albert Renaldi, '44, Glen Mor·ris, '44, and Laskar Schwartz, '41. Secund tenms John Poole, '42, Alexander J. Arony. '42, Charles Gould, '44, Robert Frelick, '41, and Claii• Smith, '44. John Boy+ to Costume, The National Youth Administration has gTanted the col- Direct 'Everyman'; lege $10,395 to spend on student projects this year according Houghton to Act Lead 1 . to a letter from the national headquarters in Washington . released by l\Iiss F1·ances Travis, director of N. Y. A. work The cast. fm· t. he morality play I on the campus. The amount must still receive the approval \Everyman' was announced today . . by John T. Boyt, '42, who will di- of the State N. Y. A. administrator and of the State De- rect the produ~ti~n of the ~edieval pa1·tJnent of Education. Last :vear Union t•eceived $10 540. drama when 1-t 1s staged m con- • ' junction with the Christmas Choral - \- \-- ---- · -------- --- -----t• The budget allows a payroll of Festival Sunday December 15. '$1155 for an average college month ' I Miss Travis said. In November a Plans for the holiday celebmtion Vnijorrn Key System , total of 93 students did 3545 hours are nearin~ :cmpletio~ ~nder a Repealed by Council ; of work for a payroll of $1240.76. student Chnstlan Assoc1atwn com- · The higher payroll was necessitated ;nittee headed by Lyall D\ean Jr., The motion passed by the Stu- , by the fact that the allotments are 43 and the student Commtttee for dent Council last year, estab- j made out on a three month basis. Democracy. lishing a system of uniform i Eve1y cent not spent but allowed \Everyman\ iti one of the ea!liest keys, was 1 epealed by the Coun- 1 within the three month period must ·md best known of the morality cil, meeting last Wednesday. In 'I be returned to the National Youth plays. Its author's name has been the face of opposition from Administration. lost in the recopyings of pre-print- nearly all campus activities a I All students received thirty-five ing monastaries. Many other storys committee was a:ppointed to in- 1 cents, an hour though at many have been fashioned after its sim- 1 vestigate the situation and upon other schools students are paid on pie yet stdldng plot. The play con- I recetvmg their report the a varying rate according to the ty;pe eerns the prepat·ation of Everyman, I change was adopted. of work done. Top hourly pay is who will be played by Donald G. 1 It was further decided to al- sixty cents an hour for any N. Y. A. Houghton, '43, for judgment after , low each key ·activity to choose worker paid to graduate students death. The play pictures death and its own providing a die for that or $30 a month. the call to the seat of judgment as key has aheady been made. lf The greatest number of students a journey through desolate terri- the act 1 ·v 1 'ty does not alreadv 1 · J were emp O} ed 1n the library either tory to a supreme trial. The Rev. have a \t'e made 1 ·t wt'll bo neces- th d k · 1 '- ' on e es or in repait· work. 18 Herbert R. Houghton, chaplain of sary for it to use the standard students worked a combined total the college, will play the part of a key to save the added expense of 655 hours to earn $229.25 there. messenger and Harold Hendrick- of making exti·a dies. Cl · 1 k son, '42, will characterize death as enca wor also employed 18 stu- they call Everyman to the final ac- The Uniform Key plan was dents who worked 701 1 A hours to countinf,;. I passed last April by the Student earn $245.44. They were spread Council then under the leader- around· the campus and worked in Rest of Cast ship of Louis Carr. The corn- 'Ill departments besides the admin- mittee which was appointed to istration building Miss Travis said. Casting about for a companion make recommendations on the 0let ical Assistance Service is used on the dread J'ourney, Everyman I I key situation consisted of one by all groups on the campus who appeals to F'ellowship, played by member from each campus or- apply .for it. Jaccb Van Aernam, Jr., '42; ganization entitled to an activ- Building maintenance work for Strength, played by J. Clarke Al-1 ities key. the N. Y. A. employed 11 students be1·ts, '41; Kindred, played by Alex- who worked 439 ·hours for a total andet· Maxwell, '44; Cousin, played of $153.65. Service in each depart- by Norman D. Fenster and Beauty Facul'ty Gl\ves To ment such f'.S preparing labs or cor- played by Mrs. Viola Patterson, rection of papers gave work to 14 star of the recent Mountebanks students who received $192.25 for production. \The Road to Rome.\ Red Cross D rl\ve 549~4 hours of work. All fail him and turn away. Five Wits, played by Joseph A. Repair Models Heaney II, '42; Discretion, played Enzer Reveals $JS4.SO Two students were employed in by Roger D. Marshall, '41; and repairing models and apparatus. Baritones Paul Best, '41, Howard Knowledge, played by. Miss Lillian Pledged in Campaign; They spent 78 hours and received C. Smith, '41, Herbert R. Smith, '41, Applegarth accompany Everyman $27.30 for their work. Miss Travis George Coley, '42, Walt Thiessen, to the place whe!'e Death claims Will Add Student Fund pointed out that they were engaged '4:.!, W. James Stillman, '42 and him. Only Gcod Deeds, played by in highly specialized and technical John Barton, '44. Miss Mary McGee is permitted to Union College faculty and sta!:'f repair and that this job was one Ba~ses Judd D. G1 ey, '44, Theu- i act:ompany the helpless mo1 tal to memberti contributed a total of that the worker could u~e as a ref- dare H. Gt ey, 'H, Edmund G. Kelly, 1 the last judgmer.t. But Good Deeds $184.50, which is $9 50 more than er ence in an application for out~ide '41. Edward Miller, '41, Moe Ft·ied- is too we-tk, Uuough lack of nour- last year, toward the Red Cross roll employment. The ground crew em- man, '42, Louis Loeb, '43 and F1 ed 1 . ishment dut ll,g life to accompany call this year, and more will be played six students, mainly to rake B1and, '4!::. Everyman. added from the student body when the grounds, for 2361,1, hours for a --------------------- the \Campus Chest\ fund officials total payroll of $82.78. Union Campus Free of Bootleggers, Speakeasys During Prohibition Era allocate a contribution soon. One student was employed in This report was made ea1ly this duplicating only and received $14.00 week by Milton M. Enzer, in charge for 40 haul's work. Statistical, re- of the annual Red· Cross campaign search and survey work employed on the Union College campus. Mr. eight students at a total pay of Enzer commended the roll call $104.11 for 297''\ hours. Six students workers among the faculty and were employed by the N. Y. A. to staff for their prompt solicitation assist Dr. Clowe and Rourke and which was completed in one week's received $68.25 for 195 hours work. less time than formerly. He also Two students were employed in Re- .pointed out that the faculty and creational Leadership and worked staff wo1 kers at the college had 64 hours for $22.40. Writing gave steadily increased their annual eon- employ.ment to six students who tributions to the Red Cross, the big- worked a combined total of 236'A! gest jump being within the last hours to receive $82.78, One stu- three years. In 1938, $156 was con- dent, who worked 53 hours for tributed, $175 last year, and $184.50 $18.55, was classified as a miscel- This month marks the seventh,. ___ \ _______ ._____------ ?nnivelsary of the repeal of the the story to the wrecking of a 18th amendment in Congress. a re- ~andy store next to banquet 'hall by peal which judged by present Satur- fifty sophomores. day nights has brought immeasur- Liquor or brew left the columns able joy to collegians everywhere. of The Concordiensis from then un- Social hlstot·y can be gleaned til after 1925 when columnists be- from the pages and advertisements ~an to take pot shots at local boot- of back issues of any newspaper leggers and speakeasies. Typical and a search of the Concordiensis' was an unsigned column in the files just before, dur·ing and afte1 :::oncordy of the fall of 1932, which prohibition fail to reveal any but a o.fter commenting on the depression .ew mentions of liquor or the law and the appearance of a \For Sale\ banishing it. sign on the Memorial ·Chapel sug- Dr. Waldron can remember no gested that a thriving business such instance of federal agents ever ap· as that conducted by one Tony, lo- pearing on the campus in search of cated not far from the campus, take bootlegged liquor or home brew. He over the chapel as a place of re- does 1ecall that several Hamilton- freshment. Such a move would .be ians belong to the same fraternity cheered by many students and the made a tdp to Canada to purchase ~hapel would become a paying whiskey for a houseparty weelt end proposition for the college, the col- in the mid-twenties. They were umnist pointed out. trailed from the border when they At the beginning of December, returned and arrested near home while Congress was debating but were released after their stock whether or not to repeal the 18th was destroyed. They were in no amendment, The Concordiensis car- way ·professional bootleggers and riPd a lengthy editorial urging re- did not expt>ct to sell what they had peal so that \the government may brought into the United States. receive much of the money now Pmhibition went into effect on going to bootleggers to apply to January 16, 1920 and The Concordi- emergency relief.\ Further on the ensis from the fall of 1919 on makes editor suggested that government no mention of it editorially OJ' in supervision would insure ·a better any signed -column. The paper does grade of beer than the kind, then say that at the freshman banquet obtainable. in Amsterdam on January 13 :many Not a wm·d from then on con- toasts were diunk in water and cerning repeal except a vague .state- 2 75 but there was plenty of strong ment in another unsigned column drink around. Near-beer evidently next spring that repeal would mean had made its appearance. The Con- the demiee of a few nearby estab- cordlensls devoted the main pal't of lishments. this year. laneous worke!', Miss T1·avis pointed out that the To Add Chest Money N. Y. A. workers did many neces- To this will be added the stu- sary jobs which the college would dents' contribution, paid through have to pay for if the government the \Campus Chest\ fund in which did not. In ,many cases it affords are also contributions for the Sche- necessary workers for projects nectad.y Boys Club, anti-tuberculosis which would ·not be done -because campaign etc. the college could not afford them The 1ol! worlters who assisted she said. TheN. Y. A., unlike other Mr. Enzer this year follow: Miss governmental help agencies, is one Frances Travis, Administration whose work p10gram is fool proof. building; Cadman Hislop, division The work is supervised and signed -of literature in Bailey Hall; Dr. for by faculty members while the Vernon A. O'Rourke, division of State Education Department and social studies in Bailey Hall; Pro- National Youth Administration re- fessor Ernest E. Dale, Biology Hall; quire reports of work done and Superintendent Samuel H. Johnson, money spent. Building and Gtounds staff; Dr. In November it was necessary to Egbert K. Bacon, Butterfield Chern- spend more money than the month- istry hall; Robert L. Stanley, Civil ly allowance to make up for Sep- Engineering Building; Professor tem'ber, when only a small part of Frederick W, Grover, Electrical the regular aUowance was spent. Engineering Building; Professor The N. Y. A. only achieves full em- Edwaid S. C. Smith, Geology Hall; ployment several weeks after the Arthur C. Lawrence, department of opening of college, Miss Travis said. athletics; Mrs. Cyrus W. Briggs, Retention ·by the college of the en- Hale H'mse; Helmet· L. Webb, tire amount specified in the yearly Union College library staff; Profes- 1 alloh;nent is contingent upon the ex- sor Everett W. Thatcher, Physics 1 . pendtture of the funds in accord- and .Psychology laboratories; Mrs. ance with the budgetary period ap- Helen E. Jenkins, Wa.shoum Han. po1·t1onment, N. Y. A. rules provide.

Page Two mnnrnr Fot·~lll'll 1877 \ l Causa Pas a Parole cl ssai·' l\l..,m!Jer uf the _bsod,cted Collegiate l'l'CSti and dbtri!Jutor of the Go•· lt·giatL• Vtht\\::;t. The nffidal-,-',\-\-.,-1,-:t.-!Jc-·r-uf lht..• ::-.tlldt•!lb u( l:tJttJIJ Cuilege. Pul>li:shed Tue~~ ~ay and I~ril~:tY!:i_~ll~~~~~ho~lt- t.he _l'~!lt>gt~-y~·_ar. _____ . _____ _ Editorial ltuoll\• ::>illiman Hall, L:nton l.',•lh;ge Ctclll!JUS. TeleiJliUUe, Schenectacly, 4-Ul;):J. 1'11 blit:u.tioll Ui'iiec~ 'rhe Uazet t\ -·:h·e-;,;, 33-1 ::>tcct·.., ::>t., ::>chenectud;-, ~. 1 .. Telephone i-Hll ~llt·L'r\:d at the ~ ... :ltt:tn:t.:tady TWUiii~B Set·uu .. i Clu~s .:.\lui\ ).'lattt·r. Bub~ct·iptiuH prlL'tj Fn·~-l.:~lltti :..1. o,:UJIY; $3.UU a ) ear; dt:ll\'t:l't•Li u..fl)'\\ ht-rt ill the U111tt.:·d ~tatt:::;. Senior Board James E. Twining, Jr .................... , .......... Edit ol-in-Chief L\hi p...,j LtHlgt·--·1-t.i~~:.!7 Lasl!.a.t• Schwartz ..................... , .......... Business Manager Ka}IJI:L :-\u l[uu!_.,e-4·~.:..;:ll Robert S. Schulbei'g .............................. Associate Editor l'hi :::ilbiiia lldt.l lloutoc ~V+U7ti;i l'aul V\'. Becl•er ................................... Associate Editor :!6 );_ HuiJin~(lll St Jolm D. Phillips ..................................... Sports Editor l'::.i L·p:-ilull f11.Jlbt' !·~7lu Jolin 1', Lewis ..................................... Editor-at-Large .:\Lddlt.. St._·( tl1•t1, ~urtlt L' \J}Iegt• l)-~I~Jli ,J. Donald Haigh ......... , .................... Circulation Manager l'hi lJ~.:ita Thda l!uu.:..~ 1·1:!!1 THE CONCORDIENSI~. FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 29, 1940 New Ha,mps~ire Bishop 1 Sunday Chapel Preacher\ ThE' Right RE'ver('nd John Them-\ son Dallas, Episc0pal Bishop of~ Praises of the artist abruptly I reason for self-pity. Life may New Ham.pshire, will P 1 e:J.ch the d sermoa at the 1·egular Sunday serv- · · gave way to denunciations of the ·prove exciting, but whatever · e- ice held at 11 a. m. in the Memorial, blizzard as the thousands issued· velo.ps, we shaH never be ove1bur- l Chapel. In the afternoon Dr. Elmn forth .from the Rachmaninoff con- 1 dened with security. The future re- A. Tidmarsh will resume the organ 1 cert Tuesday evening. The street I mains unpredictab1e. It is rather recitals with a prog1am of French· was soon swarming with cars and I silly to spend much time planninf music to be presented in the Mem- · cabs creeping towa1·d the crowd ! careers when our own little hopes massed under the Plaza marquee are the pawns of almost certain . or·ial Chapel at 4 P· m. Bishop DaHas is a gradm:tc of With one party after another even- but unknown, cataclysmic events. Yale and d the Union Theological! tually locating its ride, two peop.Je With this .prospect of uncertainty huddled in a doorway and among and the pl'ObU~biUty of swallowing Seminary. He has received the de-! the last unaccounted for, noticed 1 several utter disappointments as gree of Doctor of Divinity from i Dartmouth, Norwich University,' ~ fourteen ot· fifteen-year-old h·igh we proceed with our bomb-dedging, University of Vermcnt and from i school girl, clad in an open coat it is increasingly important that the Berkley Divinity School. In i which revealed P. light cotton dress we build up in ourselves consistent- 1933 the University of New Ramp- shifting from right foot to left as ly relia•ble gyroscopic sources of shire awarded him the honorary de- she scanned the passing cars. Fin- personal enjoyment. Some steady greo of Doctor of Letters. I ally she spoke. \I'd Ji.ke to know fund of intet·est and pleasure, inde-. From 1908 to 1920 he was cuJate. where my brother is, He's sup- pendent of economic or political ac- of St. John's Chape•i and Associate· posed to come after rne .... I came versity, is our best insu•rance, and Headmaster of the 'Taft School in· down here to see a show tonight 1 nothing fills the 'bill better than a. Watertown, Conn. Later .he was but found that some guy was play-~ sincere love for worthwhile music, rector of St. Thomas Church in ing a piano. So I went on down to Popular melodies a1'e pleasant Hanover, New Hampshire and then Proctor's instead of listening to things, but their furious rate of vicar of St. Paul's Cathedral in him, because I heard a symphony turn-over disqualifies them for the Bcston. Since rg 26 he has been once and it was lousy.\ purpose. Bishop of New HampshirP . The speaker probably was a Nott You can Bever learn to \appre- Dr. Tidmarsh will play: CALENDAR Tonight R p m. -Glee Club Concert, Al- ·bany Girls Academy Tomorrow 10 a. m. Daily Assembly, Pro-· .fess::H' Ernest M. Ligon \Voca- tional Guidance,\ Memorial Chapel. Sunday 10 a. m.--Sunday Service. Rt. Rev. John Thomson Dallas, Bi~hop o.f New Hampshire. 3 p. m.-Town Meeting. Mr. Paul S. Willis P1 of. Hartley W Cross, .Sp1 ingfield. College, spe:J.kers. Subject, \How Can Tte Consumet· Best Be Pre- tected Against Sky Rocketing of Food Pdces. Old Chapel. 4-5 p. m.-Organ Recita·l Dr. E 1 - mer A. TidmarsN, Memorial Ctapcl. 1\Io::Jd::ty 8 p. m. · · Mountebanks Old Chapel. Tuesday Movies 8:30 p. rn. - Alliance Francaise Mee~ing, Count Sforza speaker. Subj~ct \Some Parliamentary Aspects of F1 ench Culture ' REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING 6Y National Advertising Service, Inc. Termce stud·ent, but her words elate\ music unless you Usten to it might as Wl'll have come fi'Om any Use some will-power at fitst; it number of males five or six years will soon become necessary if you oldet, going to school in more .pre- listen carefully and explore widely. tentious fashion on the other side Somewhere something-the purity of Union Street. Plenty of us heard of Bach, the form of Mozart, Ree· a symphony, or something else thoven's power and ·maturity, Wag-. called \c1assical music\ someplace nerian emotion. Brah·ms' synthesis ::mce, and it was lousy, so we never au aria from Verdi, Stravinsky's tried again. and Ravel's twentieth century tech- I. Marche Heruique ct Chant 1 iH~C.IEMiHG1 20 CLASSES Sera.phiq ue . . . . . . ... , ..... ....... Alexander Guilmant In o:·der that students ma.y leave II, Burgundhn Hours ........ , i S:P:enect~dy on December 20th on College Publishers RePresentali11e 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES ' SAN FRANCISCO --------------------- Junior Board Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman ............. Gco: ge Jacob tl·a:ms gomg east and :nest shortly 1. Sunrise after r.oon the followmg char.ges 2. The Gtapegatherers 1 will be made in the morning pro- 3. Song of the Shepherd ·;ram for that day: 4. Rain a. Dai:y Assembly wi:l be omitted. 5. Song of the Winepress 1 b 10·20 classe;; will meet from 10 Samuel Portnoy Union is by no means unusual in· nique-is baund to striJ[e a chord :ts number of music a voiders. As a, in your head, and then you're off matter of fact, we have a relatively j The Philharmonic is on Sunds~ high percentage of queers and' afternoons and so is Dr. Tidmarsh. seers who foHow the concerts. Alit The Metropolitan starts its Satur· that we're urging here is the: day afternoon b1·oadcasts a wee!{ 6. Nightfall to 10:50. III. Ctant De Main .. Jcseph Jon~en c. 11:20 C'l:sses wi:J n:eet from 11 Sophomore Board Robert Dake, Robert Bishop, Granger Tripp, Thomas O'Connor. Richard \Vatanabc, Arthur Cohen, Everett McCarty, Robert Hayner·, Harvey Fishbone. Robert Allan, Photographic Editor -----. ----· --- speed introduction of newcome1s i' from tomorrow. Give your Skid- into the cult for their own good. more beauty a chance to get her Successive generations have ever. hands on the Dartmouth man 2omplained of their forlorn pros- I she's alter some Saturday night; pects; perhaps ours does have some , make a date with Toscanini, Pliere ...... , .......... Jongen to 11:50. Sonata Eroica .... Jongen C. F. Garis WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY CO. Stanley Greenstei·n Justin Perlstein Business Staff Joseph JaycoK Harold 11essenger Myron Mills David Rosenblum ls~ue Editor .... , .... , ............... , .......... Solomon BJ(>ehman Assistants Robert Bishop Robert Hayner I I COR. STATE and CENTER STS. I LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 1. ::••••noounonooon_lll_lilll-r:liill•m•lllllill!lllillllllllllllllllllllllll: ~============================================--~ • • ~=- ===·~== Fl'iday, Novembe1 29, 1940 JOURNALISTIC TRAINING Wednesday night we had a conference \vith a group of prominent local alumni who periodically meet ·with represen- tatives of student activities to discu::;s the activities in the light of present conditions pertaining to the individual activ- ity. An attempt is made at these meetings to detet·mine fundamental problems \Vith which the activity is faced and to discuss possible solutions. The purpose of the meeting was somewhat of a m;ystery to us until it came about and we entered with visions of gruelling cross-examination and a mild third deg1·ee. The result, we feel was ver~· satisfying and many of the sugges- tions arising from our discussion might lead to the successful solution to a numbe1· of problems. One suggestion made at the meeting that we feel is de- serving of mention concerns the Eng·lish department at Union. It was suggested that instl uction along joumalistic lines be given to all ft·eshmen in their freshman English courses. J ounmlistic writing is as much a pat1; of American literature as is the short story and in manj· cases instruction along these lines would be of fa1· more value to college grad- uates than an undet·standing of Christopher Morley's o1· 0. Henry's style. In regards to student publications at Union such an inno- vation would be extremely helpful. Not only would it give the publications another opportunity to select men most suited for such woi\k which could be ascertained at the con- clusion of the course, but it would give all students a better unde1·.standing of newspaper style and thus aid them in a !Jetter understanding of the contents of the papers they read. Under the present system the only journalistic training re- ceived at Union t·esults from association with The Concord- iensis or other publication and thus only a comparatively few students are exposed to such training. The esta:blish- ment of such a training period during which journalistic style would he emphasized would be comparatively easy. Devoting two or three weeks at some time during the first or second semester in the regular English courses to such train- ing would be sufficient to acquaint all students with the fundamental principals of journalistic writing. Besides this factor, we are fortunate at Union in having members of the faculty who are ably qualified to undertake such a course. We strongiy urge that the possibilities of establishing such a course be investigated. A WILLIAMS EDITORIAL OF NOVEMBER 23rd NO EDITORIAL TODAY This is the great Nothing period in the contemporary scene. The na- tional picture lost interest after the election. The local picture lost interest after the Wesleyan and Amherst weekends. At this particular moment, thE' whole ail· is full of Nothing. In fact, time itself is standing still. It was Thanksgiving Day Thursday and it will still be Thanks· giving Day Thursday. In the· light of this great presence of absence, we cannot very well write an editorial about anything. Hence, we say, \No game today. DoublP-lwaclPJ' tomorrow.\ \The Williams Recot·d\ To the Editor: i Come to PELOP'S i • • It is truly a pave misfortune The College Placement Bureau To the Ecitor: that our college spirit at Union has has had an opportunity to discuss lapsed into the present lethargy. the Conscription Bill with personnel Smely, we came to college to study. men representing a diversified but isn't there something el,.;e hE>re group of companies in New Yor.1{ which can only be gained at colleee City, including a utility, chain and which cannot be found in text- stores retailers, and a transporta- books? Isn't there something to be tion company. They were all of the gained through association and co- opinion that it would have little ef- operation with the fellows around feet upon the recruiting program us in the activites on campus? fot the current year. It is antici- The lack of such associations is pated that there will be a bri.sk de- becoming more and more evident mand for new men. Those who evet·y day. It was evidenced at our have job opportunities are advised football rallies and, though few of to take advantage of them on grad- us realize it, we will continue to uation. Others will find it advisable face such things in the future. Time to get their year of conscription be- and again, we hear some student or hind them. One company has been other mention that the band is pu- protecting itself •by hiring older trid. that the football team was men, that is, people out of college lousy or that the Concordy isn't for a period of five years or those what it should be. However, thi~ who ate married and have families.j Mr. Griper No. 1 sits back on his I One .group will be interested in the' haunches and does nothing to tn sta~ding of the seniors on the con-i and help better the things which scr1pt10n list .as more or :ess. gen- 1 he thinks are not what they shoulc era! in~ormatw~. Compames mter- 1 be. Yes, he is glad to be able to ested m techmcal personnel felt take his girl to the football game that the new graduates would be I and he likes to see the band there more valuable, as both arms of the in uniform making the crispy day national defense and potential ar~y · more cheerful. When it is time for or navy employees, after havmg the Concordys on Tuesday and Fri- had practical engin~ering experi- 1 day, he is the first man to yell for e~we. The Burea~ ra1sed the on~s· the Freshmen to \get the Con- t-Jou of whether 1t would be advts- cordys.\ able to include the conscription order of the seniors on the place- ment qualification forms. Such a practice was discouraged. Then too, where is all of the col- lege spirit in the famed Freshman- Sophomore rivalry which everyone talks so much a·bout? If you dig up one of t·he September Concordys, I think you will find in it a men- tion of some distinguished group of Sophomores being appointed to discipline the Freshmen as mem- bers of the Sophomore Discipline Committee. But what has said committee done? ·Freshmen run wild about the campus and never think of wearing their cap.s and yet, none of them gets a haircut. When you speak of college spirit at Union, you are speaking of a thing of the past unless you get busy and make it a thing of the prPsent. ERIE THEATl'tE Sc!Jenectady Spiritus 3 Performances Wed. & •rtmrs. Eves. Dee, 4 and o Thar. Mat., Dec. 5th THE LAUGH SENSATION Of THIS GENERATION OLSEN & JOHNSON prQsenl tho SCREAMLINED REVUE ~~*· BILLY HOUSE • EDDIE GARR and 100 Fun Makers SMts Now. PI!One Sellen. 4·3308 ----PRICES---- Eve.-Oreb. $8.:10, $2.75-Bal. $2.75, $2.20, $1,61>, $1.10. 1\lat.-Oreb. $2.20, $1.6ii, Bal. $1.65, $1.10, B6c Don't Delay. Scenre Scats Nowl Between T h a n k s g i v in g and Christmas the local practice intPr- view program will be carried out. All seniors interested in having an opportunity to schedule a practice interview are asked to cai! at the Placement Bureau before Saturday, ::--<ovember 3toh. Frederic A. Wyatt , ........ ~ ..... I SAMMYKAYi. J l l l l and his \SWING AND SWAY\ orchestra, in the beautiful CENTURY ROOM Dinner from $2. No Cover Charge. Cover charge at supper alter I 0 P. M. 75¢ weekdays: $1.50 Sats. • Special Tea Dance every Saturday 5 to 6 P. M. No Cover Charge, [omniTDEDORE t \NEW YORK'S BEST lOCIITED HOTEL\ 2000 largo, comfortable outside rooms. t SPECIAL STUDENTS' RATES MARTIN SWEENY, President .... RIGHT AT GRAND CENTRAL TERMIIIA!. I ,_.. ... .._...,_ ... imE : NEW BAR and RESTAURANT = • • : Before and After the Football Game : • • • • • 438 Staic Street • • • ~ . 5 FAMOUS FOR FINE FOODS 5 • • • • 11'.i18lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll81111111!illllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiRIIZIIIlllllllllllllllllll~ SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY The University of flu~faDo A four year curl'iculum ·completed in three calendar years, by means of the quarter plan. (Four quarters of eleven weeks each, to the school yearl. The dental and medical schools are closely aHiliated, instruc- tion in the basic medica'! sciences being under the supervision of the medical faculty. Clinical practice of dentistry, in all its varied aspects, is supervised by the cental division, and there is an inti- mate association with the clinics of several .hospitals. Periods of internship in two general and one children's hospital during the senior ~ear, offering unusual experience in clinical observation, diagnosis, and treatment of dental conditions. Next regular session will stal'l the first week in July 1941. For further infor·mation address: THE SC~IOOL OP DENTISTRY 25 GGodrich Stl'PE't Buffalo, New York 1-. - FOR THE HOUSE PAR.TY I ENJOY Treat your week-end guests to a delicious glass of STAN- TON Beer or Ale. Let them enjoy the rich, mellow and satisfying flavor. STANTON'S is \on tap\ at your favorite grill and in bottiGs at your neighborhood store. THE STANTON BREWERY. Inc. TROY, N.Y. Schenectady Branch: 30 I Craig St. 4-0392 i '. N R I< Ha ted anc 194 elec cee Hel p tuir a l'l foo Mo s fiJlE Ch< ed sue c. rna try aw: wa1 M. foo of Arr: cro 'I mi1 da~ SWE sit] ag( ant mil 1 sitJ Ric Mo:t Pa· Ro ris We J ert Ed bla K. Sh1 (m 1 mi: -l Sh: rna w. ne1 wa an• an Pr ga SOl da: be1 an to fa! da: El me

AI- Rt. lias, w Can l. E 1 - vies leave on pro- om 10 11 _I !:it • !!I • • Ill • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Ill I'UC- of inti- of the For i R '' Nineteen Varsity Football Playe:rs Receive .BI.oc·k 'U' Sweater Awards Lettermen to Elect New Captain Monday; FoofbaH, Cross-Country Managers Chosen Keith C. McCandless, '42, and~---------·-·---··----­ Harold J. Del champs, '42, we1 e elec- ted managers of varsity footbaJ.l and cross-c0untry respectively for 1941 at Union College in regular 1 elections held yesterday. They sue- 1 ceed Roger Marsha:ll, '41, and I Hemy L. Crosby, '41. I Paul Quinn, '43, was elected cap- tain 0f cross country last week a:t 1 1 a meeting of the 1940 lettermen. A football captain will be chosen Monday afternoon. Six other managerial posts were filled at yesterday's election. Charles F. Cl0we, '42. was appoin.t- ed manager .of freshman footb9.11. succeeding Ronald Ostrander, '41. C. Kenneth Laster, was elected manager of f.r.eshtr.a:J. ct·o.ss coun· try. Assistant managerships were awarded to Robert E. Ground- water, of Schenectady, and Harold M. Messenger, of -Elmit·a, in va·rsity football, and to WH!iam F. Jones, of Bloomfield, New Jersey, aEd I Amon M. Nellis, of Fort Plain, in cross country, 19 Block 'U's Awarded The Union College awa:rds com- mittee a!so held a meeting :\'ester- day at which time Block \U\ sweaters were awarded to 19· var- sity footbaU players and one man- ager. Eight players and two assist- ant managers were named for minor \aUa\ awards. The following men t•eceived vat· sity awards for lootball: Seniors- Richard L. Balch, Adam Ciesinski M9.x J. Eisner, John C. Guibert, Paul V. Mara Diamond J. Marotta, Robert A. Mo!loy. Geo1 ge W. Nor· ris John E. Vannier and Morris Weintlaub. Juniors·· Robert K Baker. Rob- ert B. Davis, Abraham B. Dorsman, Edward C. Enstice, Stewart Gold· blatt, James Sherry Hillick, Robezt K. Killian, Clifford Sawyer, Lee Sherman and Keith McCandle.ss <manager-elect> . The following men received minor awards fat· football: Juniors -Robert P. Hallenbeck, J. Bundy Shaw !'.nd Gordon Semerad. Sopho- mores-Richard ·F. Hoffman, Frank W. Jones, Arthur V. LeRoy, Ken- neth B. Sharpe, Robert E. Ground- water, (as.sistant .manager-elect) and Harold M. Messenger (assist- ant manager-elect) . ---a--- Vital Statistics Mrs. Vernon ·O'Rourke, wife of Professor Vernon A. O'Rourke, gave birth to a 7 pound 2% ounce son at the Elllis Hospital Wednes- day morning. The ba·by has not been named yet. Mother and son are doing well. Dr. Warren C. Taylor was said to be perfectly recovered from his fall in front of the chapel yester- day. Dr. Taylor was taken to the Ellis Ho.spital for emergency treat- ment and was sent ho::ne. CASSEDY'S PIANO CO. Featuring the biggest classical and popular record stock in town Come in and hear Tom my Dorsey's \Do You Know Why\ and 11 Anything\ 460 STATE ST. Near Proctor's Sports Magazine Exposes Union Football \Gyp\ The sports magazine \Ace Sports\ ! ecently carried an artic:e concerning \gy·ping\ in . football in which Union's tactics in the roaring eighties are ex- · posed. Union was facing a team caH- · ed the Royals who were wedge specialists and the Garnet did · n0t have the weight to stop the wedge. Thus Daly, the Union Qua1 torbacli, decided to rub some lard which he had con- . cealed beneath his jacket on the football and decrease the Royal score. He had previously noticed that the pressare of body on b0dy within a wedge causes · many fumbles. The game stat ted and Daly habitHa l'ly rubbed the front of his j9.cket be·fore taking the pass from center. The result was a Union fumble and a R0yal re- covery. The first Royal play was a wedge, the can.terrush not noticing the grease becau.se as was common in those days the center kicked the ball back and kept his hands up for self de- fense, with the result that the ball was slid out from the wedge and into the hands of the Union halfba·::k, who ran for a touch- down. However when the oppo- nenets received the kiclwff they too ran for a touchdown becau.se some of the lard had spread on their quaz·terback's pants and the Union ta·cklers just slid off. The narrator does not remem- ber who won this football free- for-a:! ·but he does know that the players felt none too good about the whole affair. Someone had removed the soap h·om the shower room and the boy.s had to use sand to get the lard out of their hair and off their bodies . :! llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!,: ~ It's the § ~ KELLY FACTORY ~ § for the Best :: - in Smart Clothes § :: At Prices § §You Can Afford to Pay§ ~ featuring Authentically ~ § Styled University Clothes § - - - - = = - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - = - != - KELLY CLOTHES INC. : 621 River St., Troy §2 Bloclcs N{)rth of Hoosick St.§ im11111111111 u 1111111 m IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIfi; Call Ball S.l1'oe . . . ,,. . . Reb!Jilders · cif!i- ' (. ~ . . . ' and PHONE 6-3456 Ball Will Call ~· Cleaner (, & Dyer'S \ JAMES RESTAURANT 426 STATE STREET We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1940 Page Three Summary of Football Statistics for 1940 Eighteen Report For H:ockey Tea~m Basketball Me.n Report to Nels Union Ops. 'l'otal First Downs ..... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79 81 Tot.al Net Yards Gained f1•om Scrimmage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1642 1658 Varsity Men to Travel To Lake Placid During Christmas Recess Eighteen candidates for the var- sity hockey team reported yester- day afternoon ·to Coach Art Law- rence, as wi,ntery condi·tions of snow and ice gave promise of al- lowing the skaters more outd0or practice this season than any titne in the •past decade. Faced with the los·s of five lettermen, Coach Law- rence has an accomplished crew of sophotnures fr0m whose ranks he hopes to fill the vacancies in his squad. Four lette1·men from last year's team and four ,;ophom0res· who re- ceived numerals la::;t year are among the ten men who have re- ported to Coach Nelson Nitchman in preparation for the 1940-41 var- sity ba~ketbaH season. They are C(}- captains Al Turchick, and Mickey Rathlev, Ben Jackobo;::ki, Jack V.an- n.ier, Lee Sherman, \Whitey\ earn- wright, \Hank\ Wyoocki, Ted Vin- ick, Ronald Macomber, and Paul Santee. Rathlev, Turchick and Jaclwbow- ski will probably be the backbone 0f this. year's team which is· short the services of ::;uch men as Herb W.atson, LaRue Buchanan, and Harry Palmer. Last year Jackobow- ski and Rathlev were tied for the third position as far as points scor- ed were concerned. They both ac- cumulated 54 points while Turchick !inished seventh with 30 points. Nt>t Yards Gained by Rushing (Gross gain lPss yards lost rushing) .............................................. . Ya·rds Gained by Forward .Passps ......................... . Yards Lost by Attempted Forward Passes ........... , .... . Net Yards Gained by Forwa1•d Passing ................... . Forward l'assps Attt>mpted ............................... . Forward l'asses Completed ............................... . Forward Passes Completed by Penalty .................... . Forward !'asses HAD Intercepted ........................ , Yards Intercepted Passes Returned (Including Latei•ais) .. i·Number of Lateral PaSSt'S ....................... , , .. , , , , .. Number of ·Punts ......................................... . *Average Yards of Ptmts .................................. . Number of Punt Returns ................................. . Average Yardage of Punt Returns ....................... . Number of Kickoffs ...................................... . Ave1•age Yardage of Riclwffs ............................. . Number of Kickoff Returns ............................... . Average Yardage of Kickoff Returns ..................... . Total Ntm1ber of Fumbles ................................ . Times Ball Lost on Fumbles .............................. . Number of Penalties Against ............................. . Total Yardage Lost by Penalties .......................... . Points Sc01:ed ............................................ . 1202 459 19 440 106 34 2 17 129 2 51 33 17 10 18 40 18 22 17 9 20 120 64 1067 618 27 581 94 38 0 9 40 8 53 28 26 H 26 40 17 17 22 11 22 130 105 Until ice has nearly developed to a thickness safe for skating, the squad will pr·actice shooting on the board track and engage in cal- esthenics and road work. Coach Lawrence is hoping to do some in- door work in the handball room of Alumni Gymnasium. Although the outdoor rink on Council Feld has been erected, it is not likely that ice will form there until after the Christmas recess. Wysocki and Carnwright are like- ly to round out the formation of the startiltg five courtmen for the pres- ent season combined with the vet- Jt'ans Rathlev, Turchick, and Jack- oboski. The sophomores mention- ed were extt•emely valuable play- 2rs on AI Ciampa':; fledgling squad last year. INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS Vannier gained 199 yards in 63 tries: Aver·age 3.1 yards. Enstice· gained 562 yards in 122 tries: Average 4.6 yard::. Norris gained 179 yards in 34 tries: Average 5.2 yards. Killian gained 89 yards in 18 tries: Average 4.7 yards, tYardage gained by laterais included under proper classification of in- itial play; i e., if play started as run and developed into lateral pass, yardage gained i\ included under· \Yards Gained by Rushing.\ *Punts measured from scrimmage line; punts over goal line measured Squad to Go tQ Placid Following a practice of three years' standing, the hockey squad and Coach Lawrence wiH travel to Lake Placid, N. Y., to participate f0r the Samuel H. Packer Trophy in the Lake Placid Club CoHege Invitation H o c key Tournament from December 26 to 28. Other col- leges in the tourney are Lehigh, M.I.T., Colgate, Cornell, Saint Law- rence, Middlebury and Williams. In a triple elimination tournament, Union wiJ:l face Saint Lawrence in its first round match on December 26. According to Coach Lawrence, the entire Garnet varsity will make the trip to Lake Placid. In last yea!·~ matches, the Dutchmen won a single match and dropped two. The 18 squad members are: goalie, Captain Dudley Holmes. De- fensemen, Conyers Pinkston, Bill Hartt, Dick Brickley and Bruce Scidmore. Wingmen, Robert Pan- off, Kendrick Ralph, F·red Wik0ff, Robert Shepherd, Bruce May, Wal- ter Breed, Karl Keppler, Charles Keeler, Car::1on Thompson, Bradford Hastings, Robert Bake1·, Robert Cooch, and Ben Leland. Only two men, Scidmore and Le- land, have not had competitive ex- perience in hockey, while one play- er, Coach, is ineligible for road contests. opp. old armory open evenings Haberdashery \as you like it\ 704 ALBANY ST. ---o--- Freshman Basketball The Freshman Basketball team :1as been reduced from its original 25 candidates to 12 remaining men, \1 Ciampa, coach of the yearling 1q11ad, disclmed yesterday. ThoEe men who were chosen to ::ontinue practicing with the team for the present time are: Victor Peer, John Clowe, Doug DeWeeEe, Warren Harvey, Ed Allen, Bob Smolka, Harvey Kayne, John Gres- ham, Neil Dandreau, Dave Van Dyke, William Hill, and Seymour Meisel. FOR Arrow Shirts to ~-~-yard line. UP TO DATE STYLES $7.50 up Collegiate Fit PATTON & HALL 245 State St. MODERN DINER OPEN ALL NIGHT \for that early or late snack\ Cor. Albany & Veeder Sch'dy g 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 as - - - - ~ Have you tasted . . ~ - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ DOBLER ~ ~ ~~N. ~ - - - - - - - - - - ~ BEER and ALE ~ - - - - - - - - inltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Fr uNo fool me, Arrow is for shooting bear!\ Mrs, Oorniak had been impatient with Mr. Oomiak ever since the night he brought home the ice box, You can keep a good collar down T HE COLLAR on our hand- some Arrow Hitt shirt behaves like a perfect gentle • man under any and all con· ditions. It looks starched ••• won't curl or wrinkle or wilt • Get Hitt now I Only $2. Dan A. Donahue Clothing 240a242 State Street :'Big lummox! You faiJ for everything man sell at trad· mg post I\ she roared. ~ Learning the Hard Way ••• \Man say I need Arrow Shirt for six months daytime. Make you like me better.\ \Take urn back. I like you worse!\ she screamed. \Oh no. Man says Arrow has handsomest collar made Man say Arrow no shrink more than 1 o/o when I fali through ice. Man say Arrow never lose button for you to sew on.\ Mr. Oomiak went into the igloo and put on his Arrow Shirt. When he came out, Mrs, Oomiak could not believe her eyes, \You beautiful!\ she shrieked. \Like American explorer! How much costs this Arr<~w Shirt?\ 11 Two buck.\ \Here ten buck. Go ll'sck to trading post. Buy five Arrow for me.\ BESET BY DOUBTs-beside yourself with hopeless con• fusion-one fact at least cannot elude :you-the guy in the Arrow Sussex shirt is as calm and cool as a cucumber. Whether he knows all the answers or not, he is smart about that shirt he is wearing. Arrow's comfort to your aid in a crisis! See the new fall Arrow shirts today. They come in smart whites or good looking patterns -bave the one-and·only Arrow collar-are Mitoga cut and San• forizcd-Shrunk - fabric shrink· age less than 1%. Get some today. $2 up. ARROfl/ SHIRTS

Page Four Dean Announces Scholarship List Seniors Lead With 7 6; Freshmen Rank Fourth. Placing Only 43 M~en THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1940 Union's Co-eds Number 777! Sforza Says No Place jTo.pic of 'Investigation In World for Isolation Town Meeti.ng Suhject J 939 College Blue Book Says So A great democracy is not worth)! I Mr. Pal:ll s. Willis. President of ------------------ --- · of het· past or future if she_ does 1 the Associated_ Grocery li_'Iat:mfactur- The readet·s in the town librar~ not \realize an old law of htsto 1 y ers of Amertca Assocrat10n, and jumped as thl' Union jun·iOI' whis-! were the date ·Of publication of the and a new one\ Count Carlo Sforza. Professor Hat·tley W. Cross, chai-r- tied. He was learning things about : catalog, the terms of the college exiled fot•eign minister of Italy de- man of the Department of E~onot_n­ the colle!!e clming a short T.hanl!s-1 year, the number of scholatships, clared in chapel yesterclay morning. ics of Sptingfiel'd College, wtll dts- giving vacation he d never known i the tuition, cost of board and room, \The new law is .. the count con- cuss \How Can th_e Consumer Best during his tht ee year stay. Good 1 1 esources and endowment. Then t' ed \that there is no place for Be Protected Agamst Sk_ y Rlilcket- God, he'd been living in sin, shar-: the junior bl-inked and looked i~~~ti~n in the world, aJ:l the parts ing ?f Food Prices\ at _thetfirst (Continued from Page 1) ing his dorm room. No doubt the· again. Under the heading \Capacity of the world are becoming more Em.ptre State Town Me 7 t:Ug 0 be fraternity houses were fuH of them, 'I of Dorms\ were the figures, \Men h ld · th Tl k g vaca H W b t Cl t0 L and m0re interdependent. _e _smce e mn s IV_I-ng - Sh_a~, Roy . e s er, ay · · n · too. and a word had never been 126, Women, 126.\ It was then that The old Ia.w was defined as \the twn 1 n the Old Chapel th1s Sunda> Wtlhams, . said! lw whistled. I 3 BS in Vin.·~ Engineering-:- Donald I He'd gone into the town Hbt·ary: . Further along he noted t·hat there tiches and gold, the economic possi- at p. m. R. Bt·ockwehl, Stanley B. Htll, Ben- to brouse around and somehow had 1 were 57 2 men and 572 women in bilities of a powerful nation rna) The discussion is especially perti- jamin Jalwbowski, Jr., *Fred J. hl,Pn rlnwn '\l'cP 18il!l r~IlPgP R:ut' the liberal arts and a men's total bPC'omP i·nf'trumPnt,; nf rlPf'a<fPnf'P nent since a nJ.tion wide investiga Longe, Be a! ~larks, *Richard H. Book\ a research analysis and i of 777 equaled ·by a women's total of intellect1:1al and political deca- tion designed to reduce the cost of Marvin, John J. McManus, Harry E. standard book of reference of C@l- of 777 . The total capacity of the dence <as has ha.p·pened in Pre~,t food on the table and to increase Rifenbark, Theodore D. Robmson, leges and universitie:> of the united college was listed as 1,25@. empires like Rome and Venice), if the income of farmets who produce II. States by Dr. H. William Hunt and I Women in the cotm, women they are not con~tant-lv used in trp it was announced Tuesday ·by th€ B~ in J<;It>etrical Engint-Ning--- Hart iett Hunt publi:ohed by the pacl,ed into the fraternity houses, service of ideals t·hat first made the Depat·tment of Justice. Particular Harold H. Bl'itten, Stephen C. Dap- :::oHege Blue Boo!,, De Land, Flor-! women in the gym, women in mom! greatness of the nation.\ attent-ion is to •be ~i·rected to _the son, Jr., Joseph F. Furlong, Jr., Ed- lda. Union was the 48th college in: c1 2 sses, women in Hale House and Complacency, a? enemy as dan- pnces of bread, •mtlk, meat, fish wat d J. Kalenik. Will-iam R. Kruesi, ~ew Yorl' state by alphabetical the Ji•brary, women chapel speakers. gerous as . the fl~th column.' was c~e.ese, and both ~anned and frest Bernard J. O'Neill, Robert Panoff, l•isting and thP t3bulatPd informa- during the student series, women I chatged wtt-h ~emg the ~teat!'st ftUJts and vegetab.es. Ja·mes A. Peel, Robert l. H.eea 'ion was ;;prPad from page 116 to buying cokes in t·he bookstore, danger t0 Ameucan ~ernoct acy by •Harry E. Stevens, Walter F. Thies- 118. women tittering in class,. the junior I the Cou.nt. He also ·PO.mted out that sen, Howat·d E. VanValkenburg, Th!'J'<' was nothing stat tling about g 1 oaned. Worse, a man for evet·y econ?rnt~ts now whL~pcr that a Harold D. Wells. the lit·gt bits of informal ion. The woman. The junior could stand it totahtartan n:aster_ of E;;uop~ wou.:~ BS 1 ·n Ch£>mistr-..· David K. Blake, Pt·psit!Pnt was <'!liTPctl\· list<' d. as no longet· and took his departm e. be so busy o~,gamzmg t e ol WOI \ · that the Umted States would have Charles 0. Bostwlc]{, Robert VI. ---- . - --· ----- all the time it needs to pt·epare i·n Bellevtte Quali~y Bakery 2625 Broadway P.hone 4-6248 Davison, *Solomon Penner. F • b p • + W knock off Feigenbaum said. Ath- this hemispbere. This is not so the BS in Physics Francis H. Coffin, eJgen . aum Oln S ays l'etic contests wet·e armnged but all Count said, \simply because history · BREAD _ ROLLS • PASTRY 'Sanfotd P. Thompson.. Of Achieving Unity 'but an intercla:;s lacrosse match. is mainly made by passions, not ·by I CLASS OF 1943 had to be canceHed. A scheduled interests, ?. thing economists rare!~ 1.,!;;=============;;;;;;;.;!.1 At manu V. Feigenbaum, '42,' snowball fight was given up be- understand.\ BachPior of Arts Donald E. Abood. Richard Z. Bouton, •·Emi·le J. Brun<'t, William H. Cummings, Jr, John M. Duford, Norman D. Fen stet·. Hat vey J. Fbrhbon!', Don- ald G. Geisel, Robert H. Hayner, *Robert M. Kahn, *Wilbur Lakin, *Joseph E. Ledden, Harold M. Mes- senger, Jr.. John J. Neary, Jr .. •James H. Purdy, III. Robert 0. Rodgers, Manuel A. Rodriguez, *David H. Rosenblum, Walter J. Schulz. William R. Sch-windeman, *William A. Shat key, Kenneth B. Sharpe, Charles W. SneH, *Jack R. Staley, Granger Tripp, Richard T. Vinick. Richard K. Watanabe, Marvin N. Weltman, William F. Wetterau, Wiley C. Wil- son, Norman N. WrubeL Engineering-George H. Ander- son. John L. Dutcher, Hatold H. Friedman, Richard F. Hoffman. Gordon B. Jacobs, *Francis J. Jan- kowski, Benjamin T. Leland, Jr., Louis M. Loeb, Robert B. Lowe, Charles A. McHarg, Jr .. !:<'ranK J SalamonP, Michael T. Seppanen, Robert L. Shepherd, *Oliver I. Stei- gerwalt, Richatd A. Swift, Charles W. Thurston. B.S in Cht\mistry Harold P. Bo- den~tab, James S. Gilmore, Donald J. Gir·oux, Irving ·Goodman. Paul E. Kummer, Gerhard W. Leubner. Marvin D. Smith, Carson A. Thomp- son. CLASS OF 1944 Bachl\lor of Arts, Bachelor of Sci· l\fiCf'--'Rabert H. Barnes. Matlin J Caplan. RohPrt G. :Caswell, Jr., John L. Clowe, Ar·thur A. DeLorenzo. Joseph A. Drago, ''Ronald B. L. Ep- stein, Thomas E. Hanigan Jr .. War- ren F. Harvey, Robett P. Heywood, Ganl't R. Jessen, Edward L. John- \on *Albert M. Kronick. Nicholas Milano, Vincent S. Palla- dino, Seymour T. Pearlman. Vict01 E. Peer, John R. Pelletlier, *Robert F. Risley, Clah· C. Smith, Robert K Sohlberg, Cliffot·d M. Teppet·, 'Dan- iel Wit, Robert L. Zell. I•::nginPI'I'ing Hl'l bert C. Drede- meiet·, Robpt·t W. Breilin)!, '(1.11· encP R. Dt om:-<, RobPt't E. Edwards, John C. GrPsham, Ka!'] J. Klarman * Jarn<'s W. :\1a vor, Jr.. Robert G Rolfe, VinrPnt J. Romano, John ::\1 Schamb<>rger, Junius W. Stephen- son, .Samuel G. Tr·ull, *Judson Zim- met, Jr. BS in Chemistry ~Jack Family, Edwat·d J. Hennelly, 'Edwin ·C. Smith, *Marshall C. Yovits. pointed to the suc~es,;ful freshman 1 cau:.;e of Iack of snow. . -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;~ and sophomot e dance\ of the jun- To cffset the loss of ath'lettc con- 1~ iur elass in past years and to the tests as a unifyin~ feature, the freshman dance of the present class under President Robert sophcmore cla,.,s last ye:ll' as a Bak:r,. voted to hold a dance aft_er I method of achieving unity among a ptcmc and a srnolter were dts-, the memben; through co-operative cat·d~d. Feige_nbaum described the] work, in \\'ednesday's chapel. De- hectic hours JUSt before the dance crying thP former lack of class· when members went from frater- ,;pirit, he seemed to urge the pt es-: nit~ _how:le to fraternity house re- 1 ent fH•shman class to hold a crmtmg men to decorate the gym. \unity\ dance soon. 1 ---- a---- When the class of 1942 ca-me back NEWMAN CLUB NOTICE frcm thPir ft·e:.;hman camp they had : There will 'be an important meet- a chip on their shoulder which they. ing of the Newman Club Tuesday challenged thl' sophomore class to evening at 8 p. rn. in Silliman HalL =···································~···········' 5 The Season's Musical Ba-rgain! 5 • • • • . ., . : ~~ =·,. ~ . !!I II' • • • • • • i RECORD PLA YER .. PAK 5 B Bl : Everytl!ing ne~cled to hl1·n a radio into a phonograph· : : radio-in a handsome luggage-type gjft bolC! : . ~ : • RCA Victor Record Player (simple plug-in or electrical : • connection) • : • \The Heart of the Symphony\ Album Set of melodious : II music • . =• • Deluxe Library Album for storing and protecting 12 records =: .1 • 2 Packages of RCA Victor Needles I!! • Two handy referenca booklets: Victor Musical Masterpieces • • and \What's What and Who's Who in Music.\ • 1 • • :.= Last year $17.20. Today in the RCA s9.95 5. Victor Record \Piayer-Pak\ for Only • • • • • • • • . ~ • • • • II I • • • • • • • a B BROADWAY and 2nd ST. 202 STATE ST. • • lROl', H Y SCIIENECTADY. tt f, • • • ~-~····g····E·BBiamBaBI.&I.BI.BBDBB.DBBBiaiiBBB~ DELIVERIES AND SHOE REPAIR SERVICE FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF OUR CUSTOMERS Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BE'LLEVU:E DAIRY Phone 6-1248 UNION MEN Be completely well groomed GJt a Haircut - ACME BARBER SHOP 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 PLACEMENT NOTICE The Personnel Department of R. H. Macy & Co. has written .the Placement Bureau as .follows: \Every Christmas holiday season, we conduct tours th1·ough our or- ganization fat· the benefit of any of your students who desire to b2con:e acquainted with retailing cat eers. \This year we plan to conduct these tours fr0rn Monday, Decem- ber 16, through Sat~rday, January 4. Trips behincL-the\scenes will start at 10:30 each morning dm·ing this period. .Students who plan to take one of these tours should be in the Traini-ng Department on the 16th flo0r n0t later than 10:30 A. M. No advance n0tice on their pa,rt is necessary. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Q11ality Food - Always Oper. One Step frorr State Streel Products for Better Quali:-y • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3 121 General Ice Cream Corp. BS in Physics Ralph W. Dressel, John R. LaPann. ''Ranks in the first ten in the class for this marking period. GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Cor. Bart ett Simply Phone 6-9419 CHESTERFIELD STARS A ---- - . ---------\-- opp. cld armory open evenings Haberdashery \as you like it\ 704 ALBANY ST. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUf< MOTTO ••Quality - Service Satisfaction .. • 598 B'way- For Better Values ·1 GAZETTE PRESS Printers SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR ~========================~! Copyright 1940, l.Jcosn A Mu:ll» 'fo11.u:co CP. MILDER BETTER TASTE Made for smokers like yoursell Its right combination of the best tobaccos that grow and its modern cigarette mak- ing methods, make Chesterfield a com- pletely satisfying smoke, pack after pack. That's why people call it -~ ~s~:s&ftf/Wl& Make your next /Jack Chesterfield . They satisfy with their Definitely Milder, Cooler, Better Taste. -= \i of bE lll ti n tj, in n w dt A tc pi ol 0 nl c R ZE w Cl it T F. h tl n IE E 0 c: 1 t; h d a a c a I i: y c t I a c

