• • 01 01 (Jl 01 l•r 24 11 23 23 201 20-! 201 201 202 lCS 204 201 201 :201 201 201 20'1 302 110 1Hl 110 10 201 202 2ffl 201 210 201 210 10D ped T. • • Chemistry Group: To Meet This Evening Male Announce$ trnsts Summer Ba~nd Festival Z-511 Vol. LXIII., N 0. 47 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 1940 PRICE FIVE CENTS -Pr;fesso~- A-bbe~tt~r-=:~C-Iu-b B-. ro-ad-. ca~st-s ~-\;-~D~eb~a--'-t-e -M~, a-n-ag-='e~r .... ~--'-'-'-n···z-\-''lk-'-=-ie A=id~, -'-'----'.· --f\'S~t=-il~ .. -~cC~a~in~. ,~D-a=v~ios~ --~r~- ei~ct~d'~ T L U . Fifteen Minute Program d d To Leave Union Campus A Ed·• f ( II p bl• · 0 ' eave '• nton The Glee Cub presented a fif- Presi ·ent N,ame The election of Dr. Edward .\ s . ' ltors 0 . 0 ege u. ICattons teen minHte program over .radio Ellery, Professor Emeritus of At E . d f T station WGY last night at 6:30 'By Ph ··lomat'hea Chemistry in Residence, to the . :n · 0 er:m P. M. The 'broadca.st, which was · . : · · , . ,ns presidency of Sigma Xi, national under the direction of Dr. Elmer honorary scientific society, and ' Associate Professor Of Civil Engineering Joins Columbia Staff The tesignation of Robett Abbett, As~ociate Professor W, of Building Construction, was an- nounced today by Professor Russell A. Hall, Chairman of the Field of Civil Engineering. Profesoor Ab- bett's resignation is to become ef- fective this June. A member of the Union faculty since 1933, Professor Abbett will as- sume a poeition as Assietant Pt o- fessor of Civil Engineering at Co- lumbia. He, nevertheless wiH con- tinue to act as consulting engineer on several pl'ivate projects. Dur- ing a leave of absence from Union last year, he acted ae associate consultant for the firm of Parsons, Clapp, Brinkerhoff and Douglass of New York City. l<'ox Issut>s Statement Preoident Dixon rlyan Fox, con:- menting on ProJessor Abbett's res- ignation, said, \We are very sorry indeed to have him go. He has felt that his professional interests coulc be better setved in New York City. We greatly appreciate having had hi:> help and his enthusiasm these many ;~-ear~ ... Profeesor Russell A. Hall, speak- ing for the Civil Engineering de- partment, said, \The Civil Engi- neering Department regrets to see Professor Abbett leave. He goes to Columbia with our best wishes for a continued succes.sful career in teaching.\ When reached for a statement Professor Abbett said, \I am very sorry to leave Union and shall re- tain many pleasant memories of working with students and faculty.\ Taught at Yale For several yeats after his grad- uation from the Miosouri School of Mines in 1925, ProJessor Abbett taught at Yale University where he eat ned his M. S, degree in 1932. He received his C, E. degt·ee from the Missouri School of Mines in 193R A. Tidmarsh, originated from Ruskowski, Marshall 1 his subsequent retirement as na- Memorial Chapel. Liana! secretary will bring about The progra.m included a solo Respectively· 1 ·Elected; one change in the college cler- by Benjamin Guiles, '43, num- ical staff. Miss Elizabeth C. bers by the entire Glee Club and . Golder Councilmar:1 Wilkie will travel to New Haven, a selection by the double quartet Connecticut, to take up her composed of Ausfin White, '40, John A. Ruskowski, '41, and duties as official as>istant to the Edward Schulze, '42, Clarence Roger D. Marshall, '41, have been secretary of Sigma Xi when Pro- Woodward, '42, Chester Robin- appointed student manager of de- fessor George Baitsell, Professor son, '40, John Shaw, '42, Kenneth bate and president of the Philoma- of Zoology at Yale University, Mackenzie, '41, Benjamin Guiles, thean Society respectively, it was assumes the latter position in '43, and John Wright, '40. announced last night by Dr. Doug- J-une. The club will appear Friday las W. Campbell, adviser to the Miss Wilkie, who has worked night before the Schenectady group. At the same time, Boyd K in the chemistry building for the Alumni Association at the Mo- Golder, '41, was named the organ- past eight years, was originally hawk Golf Club. The proceeds ization's representative to the Stu- on the payroll of the college as of t,his concert, which is to be dent Council, and William Edwards, secretary to Dr. Ellery. Within followed ,by a dance, will be used '41, director of debate Iesearch, a few years, she divided her time to maintain the scholarships of- The new officers are to assume· between college and Sigma Xi fered to Schenectady boys by their duties at once, with the offi- duties. During the last two the association. cets of the past year acting in an years, she has devoted herself Male Announces Summer Festival Second AnnuafBand Project to Be Given By the College in July Plans for the second annual sum- mer Band Festival to be sponsored b;;· Union College were outlined yes- terday by Professor Charles T. Male, director of the college band, in a letter to pr·incipals and music directors of approximately 30 local secondary schools. The Festival, which is to last two weel>s, w:ll open on Monday, July 8. In the letter, Professor Ma!e stated that the summer festival, which was inaugurated by Union last year, \met with such en- thusiastic response on the par't of a number of qualified performers\ that Pres1dent D!xon nyan Fox has decided to continue the pi'l•l thb summer.\ Last year the project attr,lcted 50 musicians, representing 15 dis- tl ict ~chools and the mcmbcro pre- sented two public concerts, the fL'C- ond of which waP. conducted hy Lieutenant Francis E. Resta, Di- l ector of the West Point band. advisory capacity to them until the exclusiv,ely to handling the af- end of the present year. fain of the honmary scientific New Departure for Society society. Dr. 0ampbell stateu t11at the de- cision to select the new officers at this time \repre:;:ents a new depaT- ture fot· the society, but the thought that new officers now would faci-litate continuity is shar·ed by other campus activities.\ Dr. Campbell also indicated that a fm'- ther reason for the naming of new officers now was the effort to clearly define the relationship be- tween the functions of intercol- legiate debating and the Philoma- thean Society, which groups have tended to merge in the past .few years. The only new addition to the group of officers who will di- rect debating policy for the next year is that of director of debate research, but public relations work has :been added to the duties of the Student Council representative, To Subscribe to Publications The group also included in its program the purchase of a small gt oup of subscriptions to various publications for the permnal me of its members. The organization fur- ther expressed the hope for the pos- sible acquisition of a room as a center for all functions of .debating activity. Dr. Campbell indicated that the .present trend of the deba- ting group is that of regarding in- tercollegiate debating as one of the cor related activities of t·he Philo- mathean Society. Whitaker Makes City Job Study Classifies Positions According to Salary And Amount of Work Dr\ Benjamin P. Whitaker, Pro- fessor of Economics, is maklng a study of jobs and positions of -the City of Schenectady to formulate a classification of their value to the city. The plan suggeBted will be similar to the job classificauons of the Federal gover·nme.1: now, Dr. Whitaket· explained. It will cover all employees except thos~ em- ployed by the Boarrl of ELluca- tion. 'Garnet', 'Idol', 'Freshman Record' Heads Chosen at Meeting of Publications Board, Dean Garis Announces Charles G. Stiles, Jr., '42, of Staten Island, was elected Editor of the \Garnet\ for the year 1940-41 by the college Publications Board at its regulal' Apl'il meeting yesterday afternoon, it was announced today by Dean Charles F. Garis, chairman of the board. -·-------------. Ligon Describes Testing Program Cites Figures to Show That Union Students Rank Above Average Outlining the results and aims of the cooperative tests which are given to students at 85 colleges, among them Union, three times during their undergraduate careet·, Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, Associate Pro- fessor of Psychology, quoted figur·es in Daily Assembly today to show that Union students rank high as compared to the average of the na- tion. The three teste that students, take, Dr. Ligon explained, are the ft·eshman aptitude test, given when they enter college; the sophomore cooperative tests, given near the end of their second year; and the senior tests, given near the close of their college career. These tests are objective in that no one professor makes them out, and in that the methods of correction in no way depend on the individual who is do- ing this work, Dr. Ligon added. Tests Given at 85 Colleges Last year, Dr. Ligon said, 6599 sophomores at 85 colleges were given the sophomore test. Showing thP results of the General Culture test as an example, he pointed out that of \the students in Division I, 79 per cent were better than aver- age; that in Division II, 80 per cent were above the average; in Division III. 85 per cent; and in Division IV, 95 per cent. The total for the four divi::ions was 85 per cent above the average for the country.\ At the ~arne meeting, Clarence H. McCain, '41, of Boonton,. New Jer~ey, was named Chairman of the ~taf,f of \The Idol\ and A. Arthur Davis, III, '41, of Rochester was chosen Editor of \The Freshman Record\. Stiles, who succeeds Henry L. Crosby, Jr., of West Hartford, Conn., a~ Editor of Union's 85 year old annual, has played freshman tact osse and was a member of the varsity swimming team. He is af- filiated with the Psi Upsilon fra- ternity. McCain is a member of Hale Club and succeeds Alfred A. Knopf, Jr., of New York City, as Chairman of \The Idol\. Besides his Hale Club membership, Mc- Cain is an assistant student manager of the Mountebanks, secretary of the College Christian Association, and a member of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity. Davis, also a member of Psi Upsilon, is the college 174-186 pound wrestling champion and a member of the var- sity swimming team. He received his Block \U\ for swimming and succeeds Christopher M. Fahy, '40, of Newport, N. Y.. as Editor of \The Freshman Record\. Davis was photographic ,editor of \The Gar- net\. McCandless, Perlstein Chosen The Publications Board also elec- ted Keith C. McCandless, '42, of Glen Ridge, New Jersey, managing editor of \The Garnet\. McCand- less was a member of last year's freshman tennis team and is an as- sitant manager of the var::ity foot- baH team. Justin S. Perlstein, '42, of Brooklyn, was named associate editor of \The Garnet\ when the Publications Board increased the staff of this publication to five members. McCandless is a member of the Chi Psi fraternity and Perl- stein is affiliated with Kap,pa Nu. A member of Sigma Xi, national honorary scientific \ociety the American Society of Civil Engi- neers, American Concrete Institute and the Amet ican Society of Test- ing 'Materials, Profef.sor Abbett is the author of several articles en engineering comttuction which have appeared in scientific maga- zines. Rehearmls are to be helJ daily from two to five in the aft•!rnoo\l and, although students are L'Xpect- ed to furnish solo instruments, th·~ larger and more complicated instru- ments will be furnished b\' the col- lege. Profess,or Male has indicated that the college music !ibrary will be available for the use uf the festival and stated that transpor- tation to and from the campus daily is, to be the sole <'xp.-nde ftH· student members. Marvin Lazarus, '40, the retiring manager of debate, announced at the same time that there .are two debating meets scheduled this week. The first, to be held on the ques- tion of \Ieolation\, will :;-ee Union meet a girls' team from New York University. Marshall and John Kil- coin, '40, ar·e to npresent Union at this meet which is scheduled for At present it is 'llmosr impos- sible to deal individuail•; with the mass of employees of th.e city. The government has classilie<l civil snrv- ice positions according to the type and amount of work uune an<l then graded the positions according to 8alary. Within that grade it has established maximum and mini- mum salaries with -intet'mccliate salary stations. This clas~ificatioP has made it easier for the presi- dent, congress and the 1'ivtl se1·vice to assign the correct salary and to grade groups throughout the na- tion, Dr. Whitaker explained. ''One of the values,\ continued A similar class!licatiorr on a the psychology professor, \of such smaller scale is being attemple ! in objective measures i::> that they Schenectady for the counC'il by Dr. puncture the balloons of arm chair Whitaker. The study will affect no theory .... We find out more and employee as it is only 4 series of more about what really does wot·k- recommendations. The cou·tci! may not what looks like it will work decide in the future to bring em- theoretically.\ Alfred A. Knopf, Jr., '42, of New York City, former Chairman of \The Idol\ was elected executive editor of the magazine. Knopf, :be- sides having been Chairman of \The Idol\ is a member of the var- sity lacrosse team. John P. Lewis, '41, of Hudson Falls, was named managing editor of the Union quar- terly. Lewis, Union's current ex- change scholar to St. Andrews Uni- versity in Scotland, was recently elected as !' member at large of the Concordiensis and was a member of the varsity track team during his sophomore year. tomorrow evening. Drs .. Bronner and Doty are Placed at Head of Class As European War Prognostications are Borne Out ployees up to a minimum salal'y ('!' Dr. Ligon cautioned the sopho- to reduce over-salaried employees mores who will be tested tomorrow to the level 1 ecommended in the and Thursday to \guess intelli- teport. It may also· decide to adapt gently\ if they guesoed at all. Reck- the classifications of wur\,pr.; ac• less guessing, he explained, defeats cording to amount of work done the purpose of the testing program. and establish general fixerl salary --- -o 1 ---~ levels. Thus employees may know just how far they can progre;,s il' order to reach thE> maximum salary leveL ~------ -~~-·---~- ------ As ptognosticawrs of the future I of the world conflict that is now Bronne~· stat~d that '_'Italy; as well raging on the wrong side o.f the a8 Spam, wtll 1 emam neutral as blue Atlantic, two of Union's pro-~long a~ it possibly can.\ Dr. Doty fessor s can go to the head of the also put for~h his 'belief that \Ital_Y class, we refer to Drs. Bronner would remam neutral as long as tt and Doty whose predictions on the 1 serves Mussolini's interests.\ future of the war in Europe, at A:;- far as the length of the war that time a game of patty-cake is co~cer~ed, both th': profes.sors compared to the present wholesale ~ere mchned to be slightly h_edg- roughouse, were printed in the mg. Dr. Bronner used the ctrcle Concordiensis of Septembet 29, device of \the length of the war 1939, If you're one of those mathe- depends upon a number of factors, matica!ly minced ones who always among them being the amount of insist on the batting averages those supplies and the morale of the of the two Union professors ~reap- German people.\ Dr. Doty was proximately 1.000. hardly more positive with ~he Chief prize of the predictions was that of Dr. Doty in rPspPct to Rm- ~ia's position in thE> war, After in- dicating that Russia holds the bai- ance of power in Europe, Dr. Doty exnlained, \In view of this position, Ru.ssia will increase her power in the Balltans and in the Baltic as she has ·done in Poland.\ Two months later, Russia marched on Finland and broke that country al- most exactly in half after sevet a! months of bloody warfare. Dr. Bronner also came through with a prognostication of high merit in respect to Italy's position. At a time when daily rumor,; of Italy's entrance into the war on the side of Germany were tampant, Dr, statement. \Right now it loolts like a long war but something may cume up tomonow which will change thi:>. It must be remember- ed that this is a war of the un- expected.\ As far as our entering the war wao concerned, neither o.f the Union professors could be placed ih the alarmist group which was flourishing within these United States way b9Ck in 1939. Dr. Doty asserted that there was no imme- diate danger, but \if the war is a long one, the danger of our going in will increase, and we will do so when one side or lhe other in des- peration tries to injme our inter- ests.\ Dr. Bronner was more spe- cific in this instance, saying, \! think that we will enter for a num- ber' of political and economic rea- sons but the time depends upon a number of incidents such as the sinking of thP 'Lusitania' in the la8t war.\ As for this being a \war to save rlemocracy·· both professors were about two months ahead of the publicists of both warring fac- tions irt doming that particular phrasf!, with Dr. Bronner indicating that a long war would change our institutions so much that we would Professor Whitaker did mu~~ of the necessary work for the sLuCy during the spring vacation. 1;: is in line with his former duties as Bud- get Director of the state of Con- necticut and as a budget consultanL for various municipalities. -----0---- Webb Speaks at Meeting Of Library Institute be unable to recognize democracy Helmer L, Webb; college ltbra- even though it were theoretically rian, told a meeting of the Library the system of government. Institute sponsored by the State Dr. Bronner also broached a pos- Libraty Extension Division, held to- si'ble wlution to the European :prob- day in Glens Falls, that \only long !em by bringing up the pos-sibility years of cultural and professional of a United States of Europe, beat- training give librarians the o·bjec- ing ex-Premier Daladier of France tive viewpoint necessary in judging to that pa'Iticular punch. \This of books.\ course,\ D)'. Bronner qualified, \will SpeaRing in the public library, only come after the people of Eu- Mr. Webb reviewed the responsibil- rope are so worn out that they ity every librarian must assume in won't care what happens so long selecting the .books which will be as there is peace,\ most valuable to the community as It usually isn't the rule in a a whole and suggested three quali- sporting game like war .prediction ' fications the librarian must pas- to bring up the ghost of the past musings of prognosticators who are present, but in this case the Con- cordiensis thought there was much justification. Not too often does fact follow .prediction nowadays. sess. The libt,arian. he said, must have a depth of culture, a trained and professional outlook on the needs 'Of the community; and, always, tolerance. Wilson Will Address Chemical Group Tonight The 218th meeting of the Eastern New York section of the American Chemical Society will be held to- night at 8:15 o'clock in the Chemi- cal Laboratory. Dr. E. Bright Wil- son, Associate Professor of Chem- istry at Harvard University, will deliver a lecture and election of officers will be held. Dr\ Wilson will speak on the sub- ject, \Internal Motions of Molecules and Their Infra Red Spectra.\ At Harvard, his research has been largely in the field of infra red and Raman spectra, including the experimental observations, methods of theoretical interpretation and application to the calculation of thermodynamic quantities and to the study of internal free rotation. In his talk, Dr. Wilson will dis- cuss the types of internal motions possible in molecules and how in- formation regarding them C(l.n be obtained from the study of infra red and Raman 8pectra. Since the section was unable to obtain a speaker for early May, this meeting will be the last of the current academic year~ The an- nual election of officers will be held, therefore, at this time, Davis Record Editor Davis, newly elected \Freshman Record\ Editor, and Eric T. King, Jr., '42, of Was·hington, D. C., were elected circulation manager and na- tional advertising director, respec- tively of \The Idol\. Other students elected to the staff of \The Idol\ include: Rich- ard L. Brickley, '41, of Brookline, Massachusetts; Ernest A. Staley, '41, of Amsterdam; Avery J. Beer, '42, of Rochester; Richard D. Con- ly, '42, of New Canaan, Conn.; An- drew D. Kay, '42, of Bennington, New Hampshire; Philip J. Landry, '42, of Saratoga 'Springs; Allen S. Or ton, '42, of Salem.; Leonard Pro- cit!'. '42, of Gloversville; Robert A. Rit<;hie, '42, of Saratoga Springs; Willard H. Taylor, '42. of Glovers- ville; Roy H. Webster, '42, of Roch- ester and Thomas H. McCrail, '43, of Albany. Staley is a contributing columnist and Orton, a junior boavd membet·, of The Concordiensis. At yesterday's Publications Board meeting, Jason A. T,epper, '42, of Schenectady, was elected to the Junior Board of The Concordiensis, having been previously a member of the Sophomore Board. Elections for editorial positions on the only other student publica- tion, The Concordiensis, were held at the March meeting of the Publi- cations Board.

Pag·e Two THE CQNCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 1940 AFFAIRS ----------------------- CALENDAR Tonight FACULTY COMMENT OJnnrnr II 7:30 PM. Christian Association .. ·'---------~-----------~-~--------' FOUNDED 1877 \A Causa Persa Parole llssai\ ~IemLer of the Associated Collegiate Press and dislrilJutor or the Col· le.giate Digest. _ The offi~ial newspaper of the students of Cuio11 College. l'ulllishell Tu•\· dav anti F'ridays throughout U1e eollege yeat·. ·- _ Edltot'lal Hooms, Silliman Hall, L'niun Colh;ge Canl!>Uh. Tt>!eph<Hlt'. l:lc<'llectully, •1-0133. ------. -o- ·Publieution of.flce, The l:azette 1'1ess, 334 ~Hale St .. ;,>chene•·tady, ;>;. '1: • Telephune 4 4J.!l _ E-ntered at the Schent:!L'tady Pust Uffh-e rrs Sel'oud Class ~lail ~latter. SubsC'ription prit·e J.~i\'e eent:; a t•opy; $3.00 a yt-oa-1'; d{•livP.rPd anrwhpn• iu th~ t: Hitt:'d Statt\~. Senior Board James E. Twining, Jr ............................... Editor-in-Chief Chi P~i l.~udge---4-t.i527 Robert R J<::isner ............................... Business Manager Kai>J><L .:-; u House- ~-7331 Robert s. :Schulberg .............................. Associate Editor !'hi i:ligmu. lJeltu. Hou•l'-6-l>7G;; l'aul \\', Beclter ................................... Associate Editor ~6 !\;. Hobil!SDil ~t.-G-7~17 On two occasions in the past did the invasion cf Holland or Belgium by .the Nazis seem imminent. The first period of tension arose last November and the second last January. As we know, the ex- pected action did not result; but whether the German campaign was never planned or whether It wa& formulated and then merely for- o-otten because of new circumstan- ~es no one but the German leaders can say. The strategic location of the lew countries makes them ex- tremely valuable to all belligerents, especially to Germany. In this war t •• e most connTvative prediction is little more than a wild guec·s. The course of an in-' dividual's um·est1ainecl will can hardly be ascertained beforel:and. Since the Germans have talten the lead. however, in mcst of the acticn thus far-and indkations at c that Discussion Meeting. Student Lounge, Hale House. 7:30 P.M. Chess Club Meeting.: Civil Engineering Building. 7:45 P.M. Classical Club Meet- ing. Speaker, Prof. M. C. Ste- wart, \Manipulating Public Opini0n.\ Home of Professor Danton. S:CO P.M. American Chemical· Society Meeting. Speaker, F?· Bl'ight Wilson, Harvard Um- vet·sity. Chemical Laboratory. Tomorrow 10:00 A.M. Daily Assembly. Idol. Slirvey. 1.<>0 P.M. Glee Club Reheat sal !patt). Hanna Halt 3:30-6:00 P.M. Glee Club Re- hearsal 1 entire). Hanna Hall. Thursday 10:00 A.M. Daily Assembly. Speaker, Mr. 'Pheodote Mc- llwaine. ,John D. Phillips ...................................... Sports Editor P:-~i l:p;.;iluu llouoe--4-S710 John 1'. Lewis ..................................... Editor-at-Large · they will continue to do so-the1 e has aiisen a rather reliable prophet, namely, the official Ge!'man press. 1 :30 P.M. Glee Club Rehearsal. Hanna Hall. 7:30 P.M. Motion PictUle, Stan- dard Oil Co. Geology Laboia- Jaclt Rabinowitz ............................. Circulation Manager 1 'hi Sigma llelta Hou•~--ll-076;; R£PRIS£NTID POA NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. Calle&• Publishers Reprcsrmla#tJe 42.0 MACISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO • BOGlON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FAAJICISCO --- -- -- ----===---=~..::.::_:_:_::.::_:--------­ Jwtior Board Jonathan Pearson Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman Allen Orton Samuel Pol tnoy Sophomore Board . Robert Dake, Robert Bishop, Robert Nemeroff, Granger Tnpp, Thomas O'Connor, Richard Watanabe, Robert Hayner, Arthur Cohen Charles Chase, Everett McCarty, Norman Fox. ' Robert Allan, Photographic Editor Business Staff Justin Perlstein, Stanley Greenstein, Schwartz, Myron Mills. Donald Haigh, Laskar Issue Editor ............................................ Allen Orton Assistants Solomon Blechman Armand Fiegenbaum GrangeT Tripp Tuesday, April 16, 1940 TRADITION In 1931 a silver cup was offered for the first time to the winner of the newly established Spring- Night Song Contest. Two vears ao·o the cup became the permanent possession of the f;·atemi t~· which had succeeded in winning the contest for the third time. Subsequently the song contest became a thing of the past. No longe1· were the strains of the songs of :\Iinerva heard from the recesses of Jackson's Gardens. ~o longer did her sons plan and rehearse for the Spring fes- tival. No longer was a cup offered to the winner of such a The way for the .many Ge1 man attacks of the past was without exception p1 epm•ed by a press> cam- · paign intended to justify the Ger- man position at home and abr0ad. h; it any wonder that the Dutch feel uneasy because they are now the object of much attention and criticism? The Germans announced only three days ago the discovery of a British plot to seize the Nether- lands. The info1·mation was sup- posedly teceived through an Amer- ican newspaper, the \New York Star.\ Jn all fairness we should considet this development. Certain- ly the British are net angel,;, and if they at·e planning an attack the Nazis should not be expected to stand idly by. But is the \New York Star\ a reliable paper? We do not know, because no such paper exists. No one has ever ~·een it, and the Associated Press, United Ptess and· International News Service all re- port that they have never heard of such a paper. If this is tllle, and there is no reason to believe it is not, the German chatge bteaks down completely and reveals more clearly the extremeP the Nazis a1 e willing to risk to prove that Hol- land is badly in need of their \pro- tection.\ Possibly the \New York Star\ has bPE'n confused with the \Washington Star.\ This, however, i~ giving Herr Goebbels the benefit of the doubt. and anyone who is at all familiar with him would hesi- tate to do so. The Dutch ate fully aware of their pt ecarious posHion. Queen Wilhelmina has already declared a state of Eiege, and portions of the country on the German ·border have been flooded. Bitter 1 esistance to tory. 7 :30 P.M. Faculty Men's Club , Meeting. HaJe House Lounge. . 8:00-10:00 P.M. Faculty Women's · Club Gym Class. Gymnasium. 8:30 P.M. Thursday Musical Club Concert. Josephine Antoine, Coluratura Soprano, Metropoli- tan Opera Company. Memorial Chapel. Followed by a recep- tion in Hanna Hall. Friday 10:00 A.M. Daily Assembly. Or- gan tecital, Dr. Elmer A. Tid- . matsh. 1:30 P.M. Glee Club Rehearsal. 3:00 P.M. Faculty Women's Club Meeting. Mrs. Albert M. Hull. 8:30 P.M. Schenectady Alumni Concert and Dance. Mohawk Golf Club. In The Ma To the Editor: contest. Can it be that Union's competitive spirit passing of material reward? ls not personal wm·d enough to keep such a contest alive? any attack has been promised. Will dies with the it be necessary? It is probable. Up until now we have been rea- sonably satisfied with the rather amateurish criticisms of Mr. \S.G.\ in his column, \Disc-cussions.\ After reading the column for April 12, howevet•, we cannot help but take exception to at least three of the reviews printed. Perhaps \S.G.\ has been lucky up until now in his hit-or-miss opinions for it seems to us that no reviewer with a modicum of musical knowledge could make statements such as those printed this last week. More specifically we pick out inadequate and inaccurate remarks concern- ing, <1) Bob Crosby's \Jazz Me Blues\ and reverse side, (2) Ben- ny Goodman's Sextet version of \Gone with What Wind?' and (3) \Carnival of Venice\ by Harry J·ames. The conquest of Helland would, of enjoyment re- comse .. be a Eerious blow to the To that rathet· intangible quality we call \school spirit\ the Spring Night Song Contest furnished another medium fm· expression. On a campus where competition among- men's fratemities is stressed so much it was good to see the em- phasis put on cooperation to make the song contest a success in its earlv vears. Although the number of fraternities par- ticipating:w~<s not what it might have been, or should have been, the audiences g-rew in size after the contest was in- augurated and no doubt would have continued to grow had :::tudent interest been kept alive. We don't like to think that such a song festival is not desired on Union's campus. Many colleges sponsor interfra- ternity and group sing-ing and they have proven equally popula1· throughout the country. The songfest held each year at the Unive1·sit~· of Chicago is perhaps the most famous and certainly the most widely publicized. We do not advocate that Union vie with Chicago for top honors in the \song con- test field.\ However, we would like to see a \revival\ of llnion's own Spring Night festival. It was first suggested that the Interfraternity Council promote the sing and later that the college itself make the plans for a contest arrangement similar to that begun in 1931. Such an undertaking- requires definite leadership and concrete plans, although it should not involve any great ex- pense. Past expe1·ience might indicate a lack of interest on the part of the fraternity groups along such lines, but with able leadership and student support, with or without the at- traction of a cup to the winner, the Spring Night Song Con- test could be saved from an ignominious death and might again be listed among l.Jnion's hallowed traditiom:. COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES Three hours after a COLUMBlA \Spectator\ was distributed on the New York college campus containing an editorial chiding the Student Board for its inactivity on COLUMBIA'S system of student worker compensation in the college dining halls, the manager of the dining halls announced that the system would be cha:nged in ac.- cordance with the suggestions made in the \Spectator.\ The man- ager, howt>ver, had not yet re.ceive-d his copy of the pa.pe1·, Two DARTMOUTH COLLEGE kitchen workers recently did what man has been trying to do since the inception of the pay tele- phone-fool a slot machine-when they jarred the mechanism of the dining hall nickelodeon while moving it. The machine started to play of Its own arcord and rf'Pled off 150 selections without he-nP.fit of Itickels. Allies; but if the Germans strike now before they have definitely e&- tablished a foothold in Norway the action may be 1 egarded not nec- essarily as a sign of strength, but possibly one of weakness. It is only in desperation that cne stakes one's life on a throw of the dice. John A. Ruskowski. REGULATIONS GO\'ERNING PARKING These regulations apply to all hours of the day and night. Special exceptions may be made on application to the Dean for games. dances and receptions. Parking Spaces a. The space en either side of the road at thP rear o.f Wa:i'h- bmn Hall. b. The spaces at the rear of the gymnasium. c. The space at the rear of the Civil Engineering Building. d. The space in front of the Old Chapel-a single i·ow of not more than ten cars. e. The approved spaces at the 1 ear of fraternity houses. f. The space at the rear of South College for residents of South College and the Old Gym- nasium Dormitory only. g. The space at the tear of North College for t·esidents of North College only. h. The space at the rear of the Electrical Engineering Labo- ratory. i. The space at the tear of the Administration Building. Registration The license number of all cars, together with the names of their operatot·s, must be registered at the Office of the Dean. A fine of two dolla.rs will be imposed for failure to register. Parking Cars must be parked close- hub to hub without intervals. With regard to the first we would say that in our opinion, al- though Bob Crosby's crew repre- sents a tightly knitted group which depends more upon universal ex- cellence tather than individual virtuosity, nevertheless, we feel that even the most critical of mus- ical reviewers could not help but detect a thoroughly satisfying ren- dition of these two sides, perhaps as he says, enhanced by Fazola and Stacey. As for the second-although we agree in the large with \S.G.'s\ criticism of \Gone with What Wind,\ we cannot help but fe71 that anyone who calls Hampton s vibra HARPING meaningless had best turn in the old typewriter and start in on the sports desk! We would be glad to debate this point further with the learned pundent. The third is a complete miscon- ception of style. We are, ourselves, somewhat of James' fans and hence feel reasonably competent to voice our dissatisfaction at \S.G.'s\ review. James' trumpet is one which must be looked behind and studied in order to be under- stood. His music comes, not as \S.G.'' would suggest, from the lips, but rather from the soul. In listen- ing to the \Carnival of Venice\ we must remember that James is play- ing a little known, rather unexcit- ing score, and hence, an opinion should come not from what is be- ing played but how it is being played. In his infancy, James, with Goodman, on some poor discs was mechanical. He has passed from these stages and is now rated, not only by us, but by critics the world over, in a class with the im- mortal Bix. Can he then be called mechanical and exhibitionistic? Arch Smith Rich Henyan -----0 Penalty CAPS AND GOWNS Operators of cars parked on the campus, outside of designat- Seniors desiring to rent caps and ed parking places, or of cars gowns for commencement are re- improperly parked in parking quested to sign up at the College places will be fined fifty cents Bookstore on April 23, 24, or 25. A for the first offense and increas- fee of $2.50 must •be paid when ing amounts fot· subsequent of- signing, $1.00 of which will be re- fenses. funded upon the return of the caps '----------------J :and gowns. BY DR. PETER I. WOLD \When beg·gars die, there are comets seen.; The heavens themselves blaze forth tl:e death of p1 inces.\ Julius Caesar vVhen Shakespeare so wrote, un- questionably the most spectact1:lat· event in the <·kies \\-as a b1azmg comet, and to the unaided eye it no doubt is sti'J:l the most spectacular. With our m01e recent insttuments, howevet, we can see into great depths of space and there fiBd: events beside which a comet i~ a very tdvial thing indeed. Dy countless observations and meauurements, it has ·been found that all the ~tat's we see, including the sun, belong to the \Galactic Sys- tem\ or \Millry Way\ and that this system ccnstillites what may b€ called an island univet se of hun- dreds of million;.· of stat\· Alw it is found that far 'beyond the con- fines of our univetse are many similar island uni vet ses, called the spira.J nebulae, some so temote that it takes hundreds of millions of years for their light to reach u~. In our island univetse we f.ind, in genet·al, lines in the spectrum of stars corresponding to the spec- Hal lines of the cart esponding ele- ments on the earth. For the spiral nebulae we see the spech·al lines arranged in the same order but, very surp1 isingly, all shifted to- wards the red end of the spectrum. The most obvious interp1etation of this fact is that the nebulae are t eceding from us in all directions, and it turns out that the velocity of receE'sion is about proportional to the remoteness of the nebulae. This means that, in the case of nebulae which are a hundred mil- lion light years away, that the recessional velocity is about 20,000 miles per second, and this has pre~·umably been going on for bil- lions of years. It is this explanation which has led to the expression, \expanding universe.\ Such a concept is rather difficult to accept and various attempts have been made to find some other explanation of this redward shift. A few years ago it occurred to me, and I was able to show, that this shift could be accounted for if one were to assume that the velocity of light throughout space is grad- ually slowing down. The amount of decrease to account fo1 the obser- vational facts is about one part in two billion .per year. Of course such a theory should not be taken ve·ry seriously unleE·s and until some other and independent support for the change in velocity of light is forthcoming, but the idea was suf- ficiently intriguing to warrant speculatiqn as to how one could account fot· it. The only reason- able explanation seews to be that possibly the velocity of light may be dependent to a slight extent on the presence of othet light or radiation in space, and while noth- ing in pa£t theory or experiment bears on this, it seemed worth- while to undertake some investiga- tion. The experimental difficulties are exceedingly great, for it is recognized that if there is any such SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Qualit~· li'ood-Always Open One step from State St. The ELITE TAILOR 516 UNION ST. • Expert Tailoring TUXEDOS FOR RENT LET THIS SYMBOL Be Your Guide in Buying ICE CREAM Product of General lc:e Cream Corporation BR. PE'l'ER I. WUL.U effect, t.t is of very small magni- tude indeed. Some four cr five years ago we stat ted in the Physics Laboratory the building of an unusually large Michel~on interferometer. This is an important optical instrument invented by Michelson and used by him and Morley in the famous ex- pet imen t which became the basis for the relativity theory. In our case the intel'ferometer is not so large as the largest built ·but is unique in that it is enclosed en- tirely in an evacuated space. Es- 9entially the intet ferometer is an instrument in which lig·ht from a source is divided and travels over two separate paths and is then recombined to form a character- istic \interference pattern\. If there is any change in the velccity of light in one of the paths, there will be a movement of this pattern, and the pi e£·ent equi.pment is thought to be sensitive enough to show a change in velocity of about one pat t in twenty million. The experiment will consist in setting up a normal interference pattern and then strongly illuminating one of the paths, noting whether there is any change in the pattern which can be ascribed to a change in the velocity of light due to the presence of radiation. At present, with the active assistance of Mr. David Pres- ton of the class of 1940, it is hoped that some conclusive observations can soon be made. While the connecticn between this experiment and the so-called expanding univetse is not obvious, it is sufficient now to state that if an effect of the nature proposed i~ present, it will be possible to ac- count fm· the strange observational facts without resorting to the some- what unpleasant theory of an ex- panding universe. ----a---- PLACEMENT DISCUSSION On Monday, April 22nd, Mr. Kim- ball, the manager of the Hotel Van Curler, will lead a placement dis- cussion for seniors. Reservations may be made at the Placement Bu- reau. C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optometrist Ey ... s Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. DALEY'S Featuring GOOD FOOD AND DRINKS BOOTH and COUNTER SERVICE 414 STATE ST. ' w As Tb vicU bart afte1 <.ont· sho\1 in ex: an e able t..tck .1 ·1: the vi, tt .tton: ing ba<f two a not utes the ed. 1 Dutc to 4. lied en de 'l't cate ing total at b tuun De a• ba.til !ian t Holr goal clim ed t and oper un play year ptac E< \Veri eact bin, ::que hom for ris ' field una I in g. Tl day uled Satt his ond will urd1 G p CP FD SD c SA FA OH IH S! Grif Pan Sim Gre Boy S< OstJ 24:3 H Har 14:4 22:2 Fer: 26:5 47:3 Ben I p~ B -

gni- we is by ex- sis our so is en- Es- an a If ern, is to The ting one the the ions ous, ac- ex- dis- Bu- ed Y. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 16, 1940 Page Three VARSITY DROPS FIRST TO HOBART LACROSSEMEN Wa;rd and Ostrander Impressive As 'Deacons G·ain A 19-6 Vi·cto:ry ~-- ----------- Overcome Early Lead; Swarthmore This Week Dutchmen Show Lack of Practice at Hobad The varsity lacrosse team fell(..--------··------ victim to a strong and fast Ho- bart squad at Geneva 0n Saturday afternoon and dropped the illitial c.ontest on its schedule, 19-6. While showing the lack of practice and inexper renee the Dutchmen played an enthusiastic game .but were un- able to cope with the powerful at- t..o.ck of the seasoned Deacons. u1e Dutchmen took the 'lead in the opening mmutes or play by vi. tue or goals by Ed Ward and .rwnnie usuander, the former play-, Track Team lv1eets M~iddlebu:ry Here Saturday Ketz Working to Develop Hurdlers.; Dutchmen Strong in Field Events ing hrs lm;t var~ity conte<:t . .Ho- The varsity tr:ack team wiH hold ba1 t's All-American Ferris netteJ intensive practice for the r·emain- two quicl!. shots to tlC tuc ;ocore an:1 der of the week in prepa·ration for anotner goal by Hart a tew mHl· their epening meet scheduled for ute~ later gave the Geneva team .Saturday after noon with the Mid- the !eat! which it never relingpi,;h- dlebluy College team, the ftrst op- ed. Hobart kept the pre,;sure on the ponent on a five meet card. Dutcnmen and led at halftime 10 Coach Ketz reports that many t0 4. Ostrande·r and Wardwel'l tal- members of his twenty-four man lied for Union before the period :::quad are not as yet in shape and ended. he looks for a tough battle from 'l'he second period was a dupli- the Middlebury Panthers. Middle- cate of the first with Hobart add- bury probably will be under a ing nine more goals to swell their ::>imilar handicap aE they have yet total to 19 and ltept the Dutchmen to start out-of-doors practice. How- at bay a~ only Guibert and Ward ever, the Panthers will be fortified round the HobaH net to ~core. The with tbe best of the fre:;hman class Deacons flashed an attack which as well a:; men from the top thr~e batlled the Union ten and only bril- classes as they have a second se- liant playing and ~aves by Dud mester ruling for freshmen. Holme:l, guardian of the Union Coach Ketz i~ looking now for goal, kept the Hobart score from Jim Smith, John Baas and Bob climbing any higher. Hobart show- Ericson to try for places in the lUO ed the results of intensive practice yard dash and for Ericson and Jim and expel'lence gained from their BothweH to run in the 220. Baa.3 opening victory over Penn State. was a member of the freshmafl un the other hand, the Dutchmen, team last year while B0thwell, playing their first contest of the Smith and Ericson gained experi- year, showed the lack of adequate ence on the vartiity team. Bothwell p1 actice and tt·aining. will also run in the 440 with Bob Wa.rd, Ostrander Shine Muther. Muther was a member of Ed Ward and Ronnie Ostrander last season's freshman ~quae'. and were outstanding for the losers, each tallying twice Ferri5 and Dob- bin, co-captains of the Hobart Equad, were out,;tanding for the home squad, each scoring six points for the winners. All-American Fer- ris was by far the best man on the field and the Union squad were unable to check his brilliant play- ing. The Dutchmen begin practice to- day in preparation for the sched- uled contest with Swartmore this Saturday. Coach Harkness will take his squad on the road for the sec- ond weekend in a row as the game will be played in Pennsylvania. Sat- urday's lineup: Union Hobart G Holmes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Clemens P Nothacker ............ Beinert CP Passe ................. Grygiel FD Newton ................. Lytle SD Corby . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Harr C Guibert ............... Welker SA Ward ................. Bender FA Ostrander . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ferris OH Fay ..................... Fitch IH Stillman .............. Dobbin Spares: Union - Hillicli, Haigh, Griffith, Wardwell, Mara, Schulze, Panoff. Hobart - Ellis, Hoffman, Simms. Werber, Leader, Winship,· Greene, Grant, Kidd, Eaton, Miller, Boyce, Rich. Scoring: Union-<6>-Ward, 1:26; Ostrander, 2:51, 17:26; Wardwell, 24:39; Ward, 46:32; Guibert, 55:01. Hobart--<19)-Ferris. 7:05, 10:19; Hart, 12:21; Bender, 13:58; Dobbin, 14:43; Fitch, 17:23; Dobbin, 17:59; 22:27; Ferris, 22:57; Leader, 25:24; Ferris, 30:19; Hart, 33:11; Dobbin, 26:51; Ferris, 40:16; 44:21; Dobbin, 47:33; Weber, 48:03; Dobbin, 48:21; Bender, 50:38. Freeman•s High Quality WALLPAPER PAINT GLASS For Past 142 Years Freeman & Son, I nc:orporated Phone 4-9155 12-20 Erie Blvd. may well develop into a star quar- tt'l\ miler. I\ack HurdlPrs The var·sity was hard hit by the graduation of Bob Hayner, cap- tain, and start hurdler of last y€ar's team. Ketz has been working hard to develop a hurdler of capable calibr·e. The candidates for the hurdle events a1·e Bothwell, Plum- mer. Barlett. Daly and Gus Mor- rison. Mol't'ison hmdled for th\ freshmen last season while th·\ :est of the men have had little ex- perience in that event . In the distance races Ketz hos Frank Melewicz and Dick Conly in the two mile_ Melewicz was co-cap- tain of the cross country team and Conly was also a member of the team. In the half mile, Dave Wa- ters, Gale Hoffman and Robinson will run while Brad Hastings, Bill J ohn,;on, Don Collins and Doc Maines will run in the mile. All the mi!ers are croEs country men and it is possible that <me of them will run the two mile rather than the mile. The distance events have been weakened by the fact that Paul Santora has reported for base- ball and Joe Anesse is not eligible for spring sports. Field Events Strong The field events may well be the strong point of the varsity this spring' with a host of good materhl headed by Captain Ernie Bodenstab in the discus and shot put. Help- ing Bodenstab in the shot will be Jim Bothwell, Adam Ciesinski, Bill Busino and Stew Goldblatt. In the d'iscus, besides Bodenstab, will be Bundy Shaw and Lou D'Acundo. The veteran Burt Brittin, Tom Mer- Eon and Ed Keers will throw the javelin while Jim Smith and Em Hutchin,; will enter the broad jump. Jim Smith will also do the high jumping with Gus Morrison; Morrison will also enter the pole vault with Johnny Senn. Bundy Shaw and Stew Goldblatt were both members of last year's <Continued on Page 4) Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 B'way Phone 4-6248 BREAD- ROLLS- l'ASTRY - GUERRA PHARMACY We deliver sandwiches and drugs till 11 p. m. PHONE 6-9419 600 UNION ST. Cor, BARRETT Drugs, Prescriptions, Sundries SANDWICHES and LIGHT LUNCHES \Call Ball and Ball Will Call\ PH 0 N E 6-3456 F.resbmen Nine Point to Opener Varsity Preparing For M;iddlebury Game Saturday Afternoon Coach AI Ciampa has been drill- ing his freshman baseball squad daily in the gymnasium ia prepara- tion for their opening game with Amsterdam High Scho0l on April 27. The f-reshman squad will scrim- mage the varsity on Wednesday dnd Thursdar afternoons this week as the varsity prepare~ for its oper.~r on Saturday. The lineup for the freshman In its first game will probably find Don Quigley at first, Hank Wy- socki at ,;econd base, ''Whi tr,~ · Carnwright at shortstop, and Stan Steingut at third. In the outfield Kaufman in le·ft, Jone,; in cent<'r and either· Don Wray, Don Gimux or Erwin Doyne wiU patrol right field, Salomone will be carried as a reserve infielder. Fred Smith and Toby Champlin are slated to do the catching. Ciampa is carrying five pitchen on the squad. Lee, Geisel, Cum- mings, Slingerland, and Dutcher. So far Lee, Slingerland and Cum- ing,; look Uke the best of the hurlers and one of them will get t.1\ nod to sta1 t in the box against Amster·dam. The varsity has been working out on Nott Street Field in prepara- tion for their opener with MiO.dle- bury on Saturday afternoon. Lawrence has· been drilling his men on inside baseball, stressing bunting, base stealing, sliding and the squeeze play. With hitting prac- tice the batters have finally caught up with the pitchers and have their eyes sharpened for the opener. The lineup on Saturday afternoon will probably find Charlie Brock- ner on first base, Ned Reilly at the middle sack. Mickey Rathlev at short and either AI Turchick or Fred Chesbro at third. Fred Patrie, \Tiny\ Weintraub and Earl Raif- stanger will be in the outfield. Ha!'- ry Palmer will be behind the plate and either AI Mould or \Swede\ Hanson will be doing the pitching. PEOPLE'S FOOD MARKET FINE FOOD and GROCERIES 1291 Rugby Rd. LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 354 B'way Ph. 4-3364, 4-3365 i Eighteen T earns Enter Intramural Softbalil Tourney Entrants Divided Into Two Leagues; Opener April 18 Professor Wilford Ketz, director of intramural athletics, has an- nounced that eighteen teams have entered the Intramural Softball Tournament. This is one less than the number which played in the tournament last yEar. This year the entries· will be divided into two leagues rather than three as of last year. The tournament will get underway on Thursday, April 18, when the Phi Sigma Delta's will meet the Sigma Phi tPam, Chi Psi meets Delta Ups.iJon and thP Neu- trals will play Phi Sigma Kappa. Ketz stated that three fields will be used for tournament games, two on Council Field and one on Alex- ander Field, In case of emergency or for playoff contests the diamond on the Nott Street Field will be used. In the tournament only one round wil'l be played in each league. When the round has been completed the fir.st team in one league will meet the second place team in the other league and the top team in the other league will meet the other ~econd place team in the playoffs. The winners of this playoff will meet in the finals for the cham- pionship. The teams in the American League are Phi Sigma Delta, Sigma Phi, Chi Psi, Delta Upsilon, Kappa Nu, Kappa Alpha, Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Chi and Psi Upsilon. The members of the National League are Neutrals, Phi Sigma Kappa. Beta Theta Pi, Kappa Sig- ma, Delta Chi, Theta Delta Chi, Phi Delta Theta, Alpha Delta Phi and Delta Phi, the defending cham- pions of the 1939 Intramural Soft- ball Tournament. ----o--- GOLF CANDIDATES Candidates for the Varsity Golf Team are requested to report to the Trophy Room of the Gym- nasium on April 17 at 1:00 p.m. Pleasant Valley Meat Market • Home of Sunshine Meat Products 586-592 BROAD.WAY Phone 4-3 181-2-3-4 Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY PHONE 4-2553 Watch and Jewelry Repairing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. CLOVERLAND CREAMERY For Prompt Service MILK • BUTTER - EGGS • CHEESE • ICE CREAM Phone 6·8104 919 State St. Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS Tennis Candidates City Offi.cial P·ractice in Gym Of~ers Assistance To 41 Baseball Meet Swarthmore l,n First Match On April26 The var~ity tennis team has been wcn·king out in the Alumni Gym- nasium for the past few weeks un- der the direction of Coach Doty in prepara:tion f0r their opening matches next weekend with Swarth- more on Friday and Haverford on Saturday. The team will be handicapped b:: the lack of practice on a dirt court as the condition of the col:cgil courts will keep the team in tl:e gym for the remainder of the wePk. The Swarthmore and Haverfm d teams will be at a fur·ther adva!l- tage in that they both have indou1· dirt court:; for practice facilities and both will have the experience of having already played matche,;. Protessor J. Harold Wittner, Di- rector of Athletics, announced yesterday that Mr. Fay H. Marvin, Director of Recreation and Play- grounds of the city of Schenec- tady, has volunteered to assist the athletic department of the college in every possible way so as to bring about the continNation of the base- ball team next year. This announcement came as a result of Profes:;or Wittner's an- nouncement !a,t week that the 1941 baseball schedule has been can- celled due to the fact that the work of resurfacing Alexander Field will curtail athletic activity next spring. The chief tlifficulty involved in changing the original plan to abanclun baseball for one season is that it necessitates an almo~t en- tire rearrangement of the 1940-41 budget which has long since been submitted to the Comptroller. Captain Miller stated that so far Ralston, Shattan, Woodward, Keel- Another important factor in ad- er, Kane and Potter have appear.:.i ·herring to the original plan is that best in practice. Other men try- by playing football on the· Mont mg for positions on the team are Pleasant Field next fall, consider- Beik, McCandless, Kimmey, Brrck- able extra expense will be involved ley and swart. As it looks now in the transportation of bleachers Miller, Ralston, Shattan, 'A'o;)r!- and squad members to and from ward, Kane and Keeler will pl9.y the campus. in the singles matches. The daub!~.; In view of those facts, there is teams will be picked from Ralston, still little hope for the inclusion Miller, Shattan, Swart and K<J.n·:. of baseball on the 1941 list of ac- tivities despite the generous· offer Miller Only Veteran of Mr. Fay to cooperate to the full- Miller is the only member of last . est extent in keeping that sport year's team while Ralston pla) ed alive next year. on the '38 team. Woodward, K•mP, · -;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;; Keeler, McCandle~:s and Beik are fi all members of last year's freshman ; Summer Employment squad while Potter and Shaltan · played freshman tennis in 1938. : Massachusetts Corporation of- fers pleasant and profitable em- ployment to undergraduates and seniors. Ability to speak in pub- lit· ht-lpful. ~o hou~e- to- hou~t'. Many undergr·aduates in past summers have found this asso- ciation meets their financial needs. Write Box Number 528, Westfield, Massachusetts. for ex- planation. As the squad looks now it lacks experience as well as practice. With a ten game schedule facing the01 with matches with Syracuse and Williams and M.I.T. among them, it is doubtful if the team can come . through with as successful a sl'a- · son as last year's team did. After ' two matches in Pennsylvania next weekend, the squad will face Ver- mont and Syracuse on May 3 .J.nd 4 for their· first home matches. ---0--- Three Freshman Teams Schedule Ten Contests Professor J. Harold Wittner, Di- : rector of Athletics, has released the ! .spring sports· schedule for t_hree ; freshman teams. The sports for · which contests have been arr~ nged are lacrosse, track and baEeball. Wittner also announced that if · enough interest is shown in golf . and tennis, contests for those sports : will be arranged with local organi- ., zations. The freshman baseball squad has ' four games listed with the opener · here on Alexander Field with · Amsterdam High School on April ~ 27. On May 3 the yearling ball- hawks play host to Troy High , School and on May 21 take to the · Stanley, Inc., 54 Arnold St., Westfield, Mass. Attention F. S. Beveridge, Pres. Make •• CARLSON'S Paint and Wall Paper your IDOL 515 STATE ST. COR. BARRETT ST. road to play Albany Academy at · Albany. The freshmen wind up their ·~=~=::=====::=~==~ season when they meet the R.P.I. ; cubs here on June 1. The yearling track squad has three meets on its schedule, open- · ing on May 1 against Nott Terrace here and with Albany Academy here on May 9. They will close their season when they play host to Mont Plea~ant High School on May 15. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 The yearling lacrosse team opens its season when it travels to Wor- cester Academy on May 4. On May 9 they meet the Williams freshman here and close their season on May 25 when they meet the Kimball Union team on Library Field. Wittner stated that there has been no interest shown at all in either freshman golf or tennis. He said that no one ha.'3 spoken to him concerning a freshman golf team and only one man has mentioned or shown Interest in a tennis team. If enough men show interest in either of these activities, the ath- letic department will schedule con- tests for them. Gazette Pleasant Valley Food Market \Quality - Service Satisfoction\ OUR MOTTO 598 Broadway For Better Values Press Printers

Page Four Bowman, McKee O.ebate Problems Of (oo,peratives Sociologist, Economist Discuss Substitution For Privqte Enterprise ThC' leaders of con~umet' coopera-\ t.i\t:,::, \..tlt' aut ti..) il1b tu .:,Ub~titutc their form of bu~iness for any oth<>r,\ LPi O\' Bowman. sociologist and seci·etai:y of the Cooperative Housh1g Fedetation of New York City, declan•d in his tall' before thE' -!5th EmpirP State Town Meeting Sunday in the Old Chapel. Mr. Bowman and Profe~\\~' Wilbur K .McKee uf the Sehoul uf Commc•t'CC' of New York University led the di:;cus,:ion on whether ot· not it is \desirable to ,.;ubstit Utl' con,;ume1· l'oopc>rati\'l'$ for individual enter- prisP in AmPt ica ... Bowman Dt-f!'nds Coo(JPratin•s ~ir. Bowman. 1or foUt·teen yeat·s associated with the Columbia Uni- \'ersity faculty in ~oewlogy, said that cooperative,.; \at'P not a totali- tarian nHJvemPnt in anv ser1::w .. ThP Ampt·iean \\·ay i!'> • to give a chanct• for eompetition and let the be~t way win. . The coopc>ratives arP n1e1:Ply n1o1P socializtld business- E':'. more t.!t•moctatleallv ownC'd and opPratPd busines,.•s than otht·r~.\ In 1 C!JIY. Profp,;,.;ot :McKet• ad- mittt'd that tht· \eon:;uml'!' educa- tion\ coopPratt\'P-' WPre betwficial but he charged that the dt>wlop- llll'nt of cuuperativt•s would cau:;e abanUonll1l'nt of AmP I ica·~ \tinH:- trit•d m<>thod of individual PlltPr- pri><·. Would \\'t->akt'n :Woral Fibre \This.\ ht• >aict, \would weaken tht· mot·al !ibiP of <>Ur nation\ by 'ub,..tituting mPl\l' llPI'd for ablenes~ in l'l'Wat·ding labor for it,; hire. In- dividual Pntl't prisP has. by it:; fruits. justified itsl'lf bt>y<lltd di:-;putP. the :peal{ PI' contlnUPd, rPfPring to thC' I\ich AnH'I ic~n re::ouz\C'tl:o and our 1 Piati\'t'ly high >'tandard <>f li\·ing. \All this AmPrica ha:-; done' in an economtc onll't in which the chief incPntive ha<\ bt•Pn thP rnvat·d of- fered to individual <>ntNprise.\ In ansW!'! tr> 11 qu<·,tion addil'>'SPd to him dfll't tht· fot mal di,:cu,;~ion, :\lt. Bowman admitlt·d that cooper- atives rat dy viunt·t·I in IH'W fi!'lds of ptuduetion >-Ul'h \\· for example. thP pie>~ent tPIPvi,ton dPVl'lopment. \RathPr he :-;aid. \coopPratives fol- lov. thl' ptactict• of t•nlt'ring thC' buHnP>s !it·ld at point~ whet·e ordi-· n:..u y Lu~illt'!'.=-. :-t•t•nl~ to bt.~ doing an madequate job 01 at tuu gn·at a ro~t tu tht• cun:::unH.'t.'\ u Mrs. Fox Describes Trip Through South For tht· fii,t tinlt' in the :;ix ;<'\\ th:tt ~h•· ha~ bf'<'ll th•• \first lady\ 11f l'nion C'ollt•gP, :\It\ Dixon Hyan Fox adrht·~>t'd tlw '\\\mbled \tudPnt:-; and faculty in Daily As- \\mbly Ja,:t Saturday. ~Its. Fox told ,f thf' history t.Jf Jack>'on',; garden> anli :-;hn\vt·d t ht• diary of Pr·offl:-l~or l>'aac Jaek\\n, t!ating back to 1833. which shP di>'C'O\'NN! J'PC'Pntly whilE' \housPclPaning\ in an old dP\]{ in the· f'n}!f'gf' gTt't·nhntl~f'· :\lt:o Fox al,u tuld of the visit t.> pbntation\ in the South \\hich ,.;hp r.tad<· with PI\' idPnt Fox thb S;a ing. Sht dl·.·ct ibed tht· Hampton plantation uf At chibald Ruth ledge. 'JI( th<' poet-laUt·eate of South Caro- lina. ''s app1 uximating \Tal ra Hall\ tn ·'GunP \Vith tlw Wind\ in it,; bt·auty and ~etting. \{ 'nion CollegP is a:< wt•ll known and respPcted in South and North Cai·11lina as in up-stat<' New Yot·k,\ dp;•lan•d :llrs Fox. \The Union alumni living thPtt' at·f> of the olde:;t familiP:-;, and, becau~e so many of thC'm have become guvern- oJ·s. and othPr prominent state offi- cial~. l.:nion t>' widely known.\ M 1 s. Fmc told \\m\ humorous storic; about the' \president of L'nion Collpgp\ and abo onp about ProfP>>~or John :\larch. Profc\'•or :\larch and Jackson'\ Gardens, shC' found, wc·tP mu,;t apt to be in- quit ed aft PI' by alumni o;PPl{ing 111·w,.; uf thl' college. 0-· Track Team to Meet Middlebury Saturday tContinued Page 3l THE CONCORDlENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 16 1940 ' I Student Body Meeting Postponed Until Monday The Clasoica1 Club will meet at. The soPhomore achievement · thC' home of o 1 . ._ Danton at 7 : 45 to- te~ts will be given Wednesday amd Flight to china, s12oo Poling Condernn:s Essay Contest Prizes E , · 1 , 'NOTICES SOPHOMORE TESTS Twelve hundred dollars and a; ·,: xcessive' De' ay. t·ound trip to China on the i trans - Pacific Pan - American : The -;tudent body meetiHg s.•h••d-, night. PtoL Geot P n KeJlou an\ Th1,1rsdaJ: trrorn~ngs, Apri117 and 18, uled for yesterday nt.:lll<Ht;( v:a.;: ncun~ed today. !' ,.,g ; from nme t1H twelve o'clock. p_ostponed on acco~nt o: insuffi. ' Prof. .Morton C. Stewart, a~so- Sophomores wi:l be excused from Pastor Says Americans ~~tet1lll:l·aoto.tendan_ce uhnti!Otllcl'xc: :\1ot!da_r ciate profe.ssor o.f Gennan, will pre\ classtseds atnd BaiDly_ ~~sembly. d lio.A t R I' Th A a_ ·.. a.m. tH t C' l h&pel. ~t fent a pap$r, \Manipulating Public. u ~ns m ·I~lSI~~·s one an IYIUS : ea: !Ze · ey ·lie \\as announced yestp:·~a.y by LotUH Opini·on\ which traces the rise of· two Will be examtned 111 the .Gen- Part of M'odern World J. Can, pre~ident of the ~tudet>t modern p!Opaganca. and cescri,bes e~·ay Engineet:ing lectut>e r~om; Di- . body·. . . . . . • . , its use in war and pea·ce. Prot. v:s.IOn. three m the. ~h.emtstry le_c- D I . . th . t th Catt sa-Jd he felt thRc. th~ lac!' of I Kellogg \ai'd. that m b f th tme toom; and Divtswn four m e JVel'lng . e sermon a e reg- tt d 1 · · ' em eJE o e th Ph . 1 Clipper await the winner of the China Essay Contest on the sub- ' ject, \Our Stake in the Future of China.\ In addition, three hun- dred dollars in cash will be given to the institution from which the winning essay is submitted tor the purchase uf books about FRr ·Eastern affair::;. The contest is open to all stu- dents enrolled in the colleges and universities of the Uniterl StatPs and b ~ponsored wHh the hope of turning American in- terest to the Sino-Japanese war which ha,; been relegated to the background since the start of the European war. The judges hold that this conflict is of more importance than the Europea·n 1 S d . h 1 a en ance reou ted from the men- Classical Club and all th P ystcs ecture room. u ar un ay. mm·mng c ape set:v- ing's date not being include<! n1 1 • • . · · ·' 0 · er mem- . 1 1<:<.:~. D1. Pullllg, ua.,lul uf Da]Jl!, t tl 11 1 ll • bel> of thE' student bodv HrE' wei- Temple Philadelphia Penns·'·lvania 1· Je co ege ca en ·ar <•r an!luLI!tced I come to attend. Those cesirino· to I Gi.~A:IH;A7L COEXCIL ' ' J • ' 1n chapel. An annuurcer H'nt \\'.as . 0 ..- • declared, •'Although we Americans .· d . 1 ·t F 'd . '. ' be present should notify D1·. Dan- rhere Will be a meeting of the . carue I'll as l'I av s 1::-su~' of The . . · . strongly !eel thal we should send C d. . C . . 1 ton PRt'lv tJ:no P\'PllJ•l'g- to A•otn·p executive committee ·Of the Grad- . h . oncot tensts. a!'!' pr·omis<>d to th 1 · · t c 'I F 'd f nelt e1· our ships, our sons, nor h t t t b 'T • 1 , emse ves seats. ua e ounc1, n ay a ternoon at E . . .ave a s a .emen a· out \ on< •ty ~ ft • 1 k · h H H our money to Ul'Ope d·unng thts ti f F . 1 . C - . . . ---·- · ve o c oc In t e ale . ouse present World War we must not ll_lee. ng or nt ay 8 otwonlll'll-' PLEDGE ANNOCNCEi'\oil':NT Lounge. The regular spring meet- wait too long befot:e realizing we sis. m. t~at _he felt t~e students had 1 The Phi Gamma Delta fratemity i·ng will take place at 10:20 a. m. are a part of the wotld. been m~ufftu~nuy I_nfo,·mc·d about I announcp~ thE' pledging of Frank Saturday, in the Trophy Room of thl• matters to be disctl.><Pd ' England '43 · \\Ve mu;,;t do something con- · · · · · the Gymnasmm. sttuctive for the support of a per- -~-----~---- war to American:;. ThP essays, which are not to exceed 1500 words, will be judged on arguments. skill in evaluat- ing them. discrimination shown in indicating their significance, forceful presentation and pleas- ing style. FurthPr details may be obtain- C'd from the bulletin board on the first tloor of Bailey Hall. I<'INAL EXAMJNATION manent peace c0ntalning jmtict> and securitv .... We have waited too long but it h; not too late. And must we wait expectantly for a leader to effect ;,;uch .a construe- ' tive action?\ The speaker qu0ted the trumpet words of Paul: \I have fought a good fight: I have finished my com::;e; I have kept the faith; there h: laid up for me a crown\ as indicating a sense of security in emotions and intellect. ''Why doc::; not our world pos- \e\'s this security. intellectual and moral'?\ Dr. Poling asked. \It i~ ~CHEDULE because we are living in a world ,JunP 1!140 of uncertainty. in a world which 1 All exanlinationo; will ·be held in has waited too long. We are living thP gymnasium unles,; otherwise lives whlch have Waited too long.\ indicated) 1 \For· ~ocial security we have \''pdnt>sday May 22, !I A.M. 1 waited too long. The Chut·ch of Biology 11 Jesus Christ has waited too long Chemio;tl'y 12 and het e we are divided and sub- German 5 t Junior and Senior) dividPd.\ He told the story of a GJPek 1 young minister who left the clergy Heat Engineering Mathematics 1 Religion 1 Social Studies 31 Sccial Studies 37 Social St udiPs 47 Thet·modynamics \\-'ednesday, May 22, 2 P.M. Biology 23 Chemistl\y 23 German 10 History of Al't •~tudents report to Bailey Hall. room 300> P>ychology 12 Social Studles 28 Social Stud'ies 32 Thursday, May 23, 9 A.M. Biology 6 Engineering Law • Senior CEl G£>rman 20 Italian 10 Labot·atory •Junior EEl Laboratory t Seniot· EEl Latin 11 Physics 31 Social Studies 36 Social Studies 44 SociaJ St udie,; 45 Type$ of Construction Thursday, May 23, 2 P. M. Biolog-y 2 English 24 and said. \YC's I have' left a di- vided church.\ \We face a world which is ,tarv- 1 ing for what rPligion has to offer,\ :Dr. Poling continued. \But the ed·i- torial pages and the columns of I journalists, rather than my pulpit i and sanctuary 1elease the popular I principles for acquiring the bread :of life.\ l\am' A.u:arded M. I. T. Teaching f'ellou•ship Edward R. Kane, '40, has been awarded a teaching fellowship at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for the year 1940-41. according to an announcement by K. T. Compton, presidf'nt of M.I.T. Kane, a chemistry major. has also bePn awarded a full-tuition graduate scholarship as a part- time mPmber of the staff. Pro- fessor B. A. Thresher. secretar~ of the graduate school's com- 111ittPe. said. French 20a i German 5 1 Fn•o;hman Elementary i A mPmbPI' of Sigma Xi. hon- orary >CiPntific society, and sec- rPtary of thE' Chemistry Club. Kane holds thP SteinmPtz and State ~cholarshi!'\· He plans to do graduatP wnrk in physical chPmistry at M.I.T. & Intei·mediatC', Sophomor!' lntermPdiatel Latin 21 Mathematics 22 Physics 21 Social Studie;; 27 Social Studies· 50 Frida;~-·. May 24, fl A.M. Biology 1 Chemistt·y 21 EnginPPring Law •Sf'niot· EEl GrPek 14 Math<>matic>< 11 Physics 1 Psycho]cgy 3 Psychology 11 Social Studies 22 Social Studies 34 Friday. May 2-lc, 2 P.M. IL--------------------- 1 \\-'Pdne~day, May 2!1, 9 A.M. I Geology 11 t students will report to GC'ology Laboratory. room I 24) l\!u:;ir Physics 33 I Theory < Senicr EEl : 'Wt•dnesday, :v.Ia~ 29, 2 P.:'\1. 1 Building Const1 uction , 1 Elements of Electncal Engineer- 1 ing t Sophomot·e) 1 Engilsh 1 t Pr ofe~·>DI's Johnsun·s. 1 Wainget's sect!ons wtll ieport 1 to Chemist I y Lab., 201; Pro- fessor Gt·eet:'s & Mr. Hi~lcp's ,;ections will report to Phpics Biology 22 ConcretP Electrical Engineering 1 Laboratory. 202> Th 1 English 10 emy I Junior) English 21 French 22 Greek 11 Latin 2 :\'!athematic:-; 25 Physics 2 Physics 3 Physic\ 23 Social Studies 29 Social Studies 48 Stt uctures Monda:\'• Ma;\' 27, 9 A.M. Biology 21 Chemist! y 31 FrPnch lOa Latin 1 Physics 11 Psychology 4 Social Studies 21 Streets & Highways Stt uctural Design Monday, May 27, 2 P.M. Thursday, 1\<Iay 30 9 A.M. P•ychology 1 Psychology 21 Friday, May 31, 9 A. M. BackgTound of ModPrn 1 SophomorE' l French 1 French 2 French lOb French 20b Frida;,.·, Ma~· 31, 2 P.M. .Social Studies 11 ' Saturday, ,JunP l, 9 A.M. · Mathematics 21 Social Studies 2 Social StudiPs 38 Monday, ,June 3, 9 A.M. Ljfp Background of Modern Life <Junior> German 1 German 2 :\'Ionday, Jnne 3, 2 P.M. AMERICA'S BUSIEST CIGARETTE Chesterfield goes to bat with the ~~mp~ ~-NP Definitely Milder Cooler-Smoking Better- Tasting the three good ... these are qualities that every smoker wants and every smoker gets in Chesterfield. That's because Chesterfie Ids are made of the world's best tobaccos, blended in the right combination. You can't buy a better cigarette. frf'shman squad and did well in Biology 13 Geolcgy 21 t students will rrpcrt to Geology Labomtm·y. tcom 24) thpiJ· e\·ents. BobPnstab is a veteran English 22 in the shot put and dis!'u~ and can Gc1 man 5 ·CSophomorp ElPmen- be countC'd on to add points to thl' taryl Dutchmen·~ total. Smith, who will Mathematics 31 b1> in the sprints as WE'll a..« thP Mechanics (Junior) high jump and broad jump. Is an- Watf'r Supply other vetNan. He was thE' only m\ln Tut>sday, May 28, 9 A.M. on. the. varsity to lfi;kc a first for Chemi:;:try 22 Umon In thC' mPtt with West Poi!'t Social Studiee 10 last spri~g w~en he !ted. for fir~t I Tut>sday, May 28, 2 P. M. 111 thl' htgh JUmp. Mornson. who Mathematics 2 high jumped and pole vaulted for Mathematics 12 the freshmen last season, may well I Mechanics r Sophomore) wm some place~ for the varsity. Mechanical Design Social Studies 1 Social Studies 39 Tul'sday, ,JunP 4, fl A.M. Che·mistry 11 Geology 1 German 21 Tuesday, Jtme 4, ~ P.M. Social Studies 12 Wednesday, Junt> 1>. 9 A.M. Chemistry 1 Chemifltry 2 Chemistry 3 ester ie Today's DEFINITELY MILDER, Cooler· Smoking, Better· Tasting Cigarette Copyright 1940, LIGGETT & MYERS i\OBACCO Co. Vt chi th< b01 in~ in Ca Me wl! ne: no set up th: Ch C01 CO' air in he an Ch tht ml elE la~ be· tht an us be lao it ofJ fo1 pll ml an en of de its I wi ffil m: tw ad ml of lit sa. tal ''b an ct GE A. we da Cl m< fie de so ea an Lc co Dt ra ch lot de t\\ cu ni !_l se pa F< P. m de Ct It G1 Pt N A w

a;nd 18, from and .Gen- : Di- lec- in the at m of • • Graduate Debaters Council To Close Meets Today Season Z.-511 Vol. LXIII,, No. 48 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1940 PRICE FIVE CENTS Student Meeting To Vote Changes In Constitution ' St. Andrews President 'Block U' Awa~rds Tyler Dennett Reports Lewis Well Dr. Haskins Engaged To English Scientist • Glee Club Sings In Annua.l Alumni John L. Lewis, Jr., Union's Tuesday Morning Honorary Fellow, exchange scholar at St. An- · The Han. and Mrs. J. Robert- son Ferrell of Blyth, England, have announced the engagement of their daughter, Miss Edna Ferrell to Caryl Parker Haskins, director of the Haskins Labora- tory and Research Professor of Bio-physics at Union. No date has been set for the marriage. ~~~w·~ee~ni~~:~n~~d s~~tla~~ Assembly .Prog:ra:m He,re Monday James Irvine in a letter to Pres- ident Fox. Sir James writes, • Concert Tonight Gathering Scheduled Monday Mor.nin.g at I 0 ·' In Old Chapel The .proposed am en d m en t · changes to the constitution will be the main business of the student body meeting to be held this com- ing Monday morning at 10 o'clock in the Old Chapel, President Lou Carr announced yesterday. On Monday night, the .student council will meet to nominate members for next year's council. Voti-ng for the nominees will ·be held in daily as- sembly later in the week. The first amendment to be taken up in Monday's meeting .provides that the chairman of the Campus Chest Fund will automatically be- come a member of the student council, providing he has not yet already been elected. He will serve in an ex-oHicio capacity \so that he may better present the plans \You will be glad to hear that John Lewis continues to earn the highest appreciation from all who come in contact with him; he is well and happy, doing a -reasonable amount of work, playing precisely the part we expected of an exchange stu- dent of the very best type.\ Earlier in the year Sir James announced that the European war had forced the ending of the exchange scholarships but that he hoped that they would be resumed after the war had ended. At present American neu- trality reg u I at ions prevent United States citizens from en- tering a combat zone. Lewis, a member .of the sen- ior board of The Concordiensis, . has just been named managing editor of The Idol. During his sophomore year he was a mem- ber of the varsity track team and of the Glee Club and Choir. and explanations of the Campus 1 '----------·------' Chest Committee aCJtivities before the council,\ Carr explained. Plan Election Change Students will vote on an amend- ment to set the date of council elections to sometime during the last full week in April. This has been proposed in order to advance the date of the last council meeting and to overcome the di·fficulties usually felt because of the conflict between final examinations and the Debaters Prepare To Close Season Propaganda, Isolation And Labor Unionism Topics of Discussions last meeting. Carr indicated that With the close of the intercol- it would give the incoming Council legiate schedule only one week officers time to prepare a program away, the varsity debating team for next year as well as to make faces encounters with M.I.T., St. plans .for stimulating the Fresh- Lawrence, and Colgate before con- man-Sophomore r.ivalry. A further eluding the first year of experi- amendment has been proposed to mentation with the new style of enable the council to elect officers round table debate. of its executive committee and to John Kilcoin, '40, and Roger D. deal with new and old business at Marshall, '41, represented Union its first May meeting. College in a debate against the New stringent attendance rules N.Y.U. girls debating team com- will be in force should an amend- posed of Lila Sussman and Lillian ment providing that \no member Bachrach Wednesday evening. The may be excused from more than subject of the debate was Resolved: two meetings\ be passed. \This is ''That the United States ;' ·> 1:d advanced under the belief that a maintain a policy of strict isola- member who is present at only half tion toward all nations engaged in of the scheduled meetings can be of civil or international conflict.\ Rob- little value to the council,\ Carr ert Kilmer, '40, acted as chairman said. The final amendment to .be and entertained questions from the taken up substitutes \meeting\ for audience at the conclusion of the \·business\ in the quorum rule. The debate. amendments were drawn up by William Edwards, '41, Gordon Christopher Fahy, Cecil Angell, Gould, '41, and Harvey J. Fishbone, George Peck, George Anderson and '43, will participate in a debate with A. Drennan Kay, chairman. M.I.T. this evening. The topic to Carr also announced that Juniors be discussed is Resolved; \That La- wou)d nominate class officers Man- bor Unions are detrimental to the day at one o'clock in the Old best interests of the nation.\ Harry Chapel. The Freshman and Sopho- G. Sillick, '40, will be chairman of mores have already nominated of- the debate. fleers for next year's classes. A conference on propaganda witl ---•o be held at St. Lawrence University on April 26. Wittner to Present Athletic Certificates Through Captains Union College's second annual \Block U Day\ exercises are sched- uled to take place next Tuesday when Professor Harold Wittner, director of athletics, will award Block U certificates to students through the medium of their cap- tains during the regular Daily As- sembly exercises. Individual and team winners in the many activi- ties on Union's intramural sports program will also receive awards. This year's program will mark a departm·e from \Block U Day\ as it was practiced last spring in that there will be no sports luminary as a featured assembly speaker during chapel exercises. As only one chapel meeting will be devoted to presentation of the various awards this year, this will neces- sitate the awardi-ng of Block \U's\ to the captains in the various ;;ports, rather than to the individ- llal winners. Managers and captains of football, baseball, ba~ketball, hockey, golf, track, tennis, lacrosse, and swimming teams will also re- ceive life passes to all future Gar- net athletic contests. Plaques Awarded The winners in the various weight divisions of Union's an- nual Intramural wrestling and box- ing tournaments who will receive plaques are as follows: Boxing- Verner Sharp, Phi Sigma Kappa; Louis Semenoff, neutral; Patsy Fretto, neutral; Sol Mauriello, neu- tral; Edward Green, Delta Upsilon, and James Bothwell, Psi Upsilon. Wrestling - Talbot Mead, Kappa Alpha; Aaron Thai, Phi Sigma Delta; Bob Shepard, neutral; Tom Ralston, Alpha Delta Phi; Sherry Wait, Chi Psi; Arthur Davis, Psi Upsilon, and John Krull, Beta Theta Pi. Other awards to be made to in- dividual intramural winners are as follows: BaskMball foul shooting, Tony Barbieri, neutral, and basket- ball \21 Gil Kopf, Kappa Sigma, Arnie Harwood, Psi Upsilon, and Hudson Tanner, Phi Gamma Delta, first, second and third place winners. Four championships have been won by Delta Upsilon which also gains the 1939 Intramural Cham- pionship recognition. The former group took honors in Softball, Spring and Fall Track, and Bowl- ing. Phi Gamma Delta won the team titles in Tennis, Horseshoes, and Touch Football while Psi Upsilon and Neutrals won the Swimming and Basketball cham- pionships, respectively. Government Authority To Address Students, Members of Faculty Program Starts at 8:30 At Mohawk Golf Club: Robinson Will Direct Miss Ferrell is one of the out- standing young scientists of Dr. Tyler Dennett, honorary fel- Great Britain. Graduated from The Glee Club will be heard in low in government, and former the University of Durham, she . formal concert tonight at 8:30 at president of Williams College will has received degrees from Rad- · the Mohawk Golf Club, under the be on the campus Monday and cliffe and Harvard. She was in . sponsorship of the Schenectady Tuesday to address classes and con- charge of munitions laboratories County Alumni Association. The duct round-table discussions with· at Woolwich during the Munich concert is the eighth successive an- students and faculty members. crisis and at present occupies nual appearance of the club, and the post of His Majesty's In- the proceeds from the sale of tick- Dr. Dennett, former chief of the ets will go, as is the custom, to- d . · · f bl' t' n and edi'tor spector of Factories in the Brit- JVISIOn o pu 1ca 10 s ward the Association's scholarship f U 't d St t D t t f ish home office. She has received o · m e a es epar men o fund for Schenectady County stu- State from 1924 to 1929, will address many scientific awards, includ- dents at Union. The concert will three classes, consult students who ing a state fellowship for study be preceded at 6:30 o'clock by din- . t t d · th f · · at home and the British Associa- are m eres e m · e ore1gn serviCe, ner, and wiH be followed imme- and direct a discussion on the Far tion of University Women's fel- diately by a formal dance. E ter Pr bl m durl 'ng hi's two lowship for research abroad. as n o e s - Stanley S. Joseph '21, and Fred- day visit to the campus. Dr. Haskins returned from eric A. Wyatt '32, co-chairmen of an extensive trip abroad on th 'tt t Former Williams President e comm1 ee on arrangemen s Monday. He has not yet returned for the affair, have indicated that The former Williams College to Schenectady. the sale of tickets have led them president is well known as a lee- to expect attendance which will turer, author, and publicist. From compare favorably with the large 1914 to 1915 he was associate editor G duate (ouncl\l audiences of other yeaJ:S. of the \World Outlook,\ and direc- ra The program, which will be un- tor of publicity of Methodist Cen- der the direction of Student Direc- tenary College from 1916 to 1918. He Con· venes Today tor Chester Robinson, '40, will in- was a lecturer in American history elude both popular and classical at Johns Hopkins University 1923 to numbers, as well as college songs. 1924 and held the same position at Annual Spr\Jng M·eet\Jng rhe concert program is divided into Columbia University, 1927 to 1928. seven groups, the first including Dr. Dennett will open his itiner- Opens with Executive \'Jerusalem by Parry, \All in An ary while he is on the campus at April Evening,\ by Robertson, and nine o'clock Monday morning when Committee in Session two numbers from Wagner, \0 he addresses the combined sections Fount of Love,\ from \Parsifal of Dr. Douglas W. Campbell's and The Graduate Council, composed and \All Praise to God in Light Dr. Vernon A. O'Rourke's course in of representatives from each class Arrayed,\ from \Lohengrin.\ The \Introduction to Governments of since 1875 and twenty members-at- second group is to be sung by the the World.\ Dr. Dennett will speak large, opened its annual spring Double Quartet, and will be select- on \The Government of Japan.\ gathering today with a meeting of ed numbers .. Singing with the Dou- the executive committee in the Fac- ble Quartet will be Edward Schulze, Speaks on Far East ulty Lounge of Hale House. '42, Ben Guiles, '43, Austin White, From 11:20 to 12:10 a. m. he will Members of the executive com- '41, Kenneth MacKenzie, '41, Ches- address Dr. O'Rourke's class in in-. mittee which meets this afternoon ter Robinson, '40, Clarence Wood- ternationallaw, discussing \Present are as follows: LeRoy J. Weed '01, ward, '42, J. Bundy Shaw, '42, and Day American Policy in the Far of New York City, chairman; Philip· Edmund Kelly, '41. East.\ The honorary fellow will be s. Dorion '89, of Troy, vice-chair- Guiles Sings Solo the guest of Alpha Delta Phi frater- man· Frederick B. Richards '88, of The Glee Club will then take nity at lunch and in the afternoon Glen~ Falls, Treasurer; and Charles the spotlight for the third group, he will hold a consultation with N. Wald·ron '06, of Schenectady, singing \Dream World,\ by Duparc, students interested in the foreign secretary. Following the meeting \Think of Me,\ by Scott, and service. He will be the dinner guest there will be a dinner in Hale .. Swansea Town,\ by Holst. of Dr. and Mrs. Douglas W. Camp- House dining hall. The fourth group will be a solo bell at their home on Gillespie Council Meet in Gym number by Benjamin Guiles, '43, Street and in the evening he will On Saturday a meeting of the whose tenor voice has gained him discuss \Far Eastern Problems\ Graduate Council will be held in many encores on numerous concerts with faculty members and govern- the Trophy Room of the Gym- throughout the year. ment students. nasium at 10:20 a.m. to be followed Friml's \March of the Muske- At 11:20 o'clock Tuesday morning, by a buffet luncheon in Silliman teers,\ McLeod's \Careless Love,\ Dr. Dennett will speak to Dr. Doug- Hall. In the afternoon, beginning Palmgren's \Summer Evening,\ las W. Campbell's class in American at. 12:30 the members of the Coun- and the stirring \I Love a Parade,\ Constitutional Developments on cil wm' see the track meet and by Arlen, will comprise the next \The Powers of the President in baseball games with Middlebury group by the Club. the Control of Foreign Affairs.\ The College. The farcial operatic skit, \Cleo- former member of the Department Routine business before the coun- patra,\ as rendered by members of of State, who made his last visit cil this session is the consideration the Club, and the customary med- to the Union College campus two of the re-instatement of four class ley of Union College songs, arrang- years ago, will conclude his itiner- representatives and the election of ed by Edgar Moulton, '37, will con- ary Tuesday noon when he has members-at-large to fill the three elude the evening's program. In all luncheon with the faculty members vacancies of terms expiring in numbers the Club is to be accom- of the division of social studies. 1941 1942 and 1943 respectively. panied at the piano by Paul H. ' ' ' Best, '41. Students Join In Roundtables To Sing At Annual Scholarship Concert Tonight R. Leonard Bull, '40, Manager of the Glee Club, announced re- cently that the last trip by the Club for the current year will be on next Tuesday, April 23, with concerts scheduled in Plattsburg, N. Y. The Club will sing at the Plattsburg High School in the afternoon, and at the First Presbyterian Church in the evening. At the evening con- cert, Dr. Tidmarsh will augment the program with several organ numbers. Science, Government Majors Participate At Williams, Queens Two groups of Union College stu- dents, representing the science and social Etudies departments, left early today for Williams College and Queen's College in FlUEhing Long Island, to take part in inter· collegiate roundtable discussions. Doth grOU;'S will read papers and r;at·ticipate in genet al discussions. Dr. Vernon A. O'Rourke, in charge of the course in \state anc· local government\ took eight stu- dents to Queens College, where two majo1· topics will each be dis- cussed at three hour sessions. To- night the discussion on \Utban De- !_wcracy and Proportional H.epre- sentation\ will be opened with a paper presented by Boyd' Golder, '41. For half of this discussion, Marvin P. Lazarus, '40, will serve as chair- man. Tomorrow morning the stu- dents from both colleges will dis- cuss \Municipal Home Rule .md Its Implications fOI' Representative Government.\ Sho1 t papers by Z. Peter Grabicki, '40, and William J. Nugent, '40, will open the program. At this session Donald J. Wait, 41, will be chairman for half of the (Continued on Page 4) College to Exhibit Orrery at World's Fair A 150-year-old orrery, an appara- tus for showing the position and motion of bodies in the solar sys- tem, which was purchased by the College in 1797, will be included in the Schenectady County Exhibit at the World's Fair this summer, it was announced at a meeting of the committee in charge of the ex- hibit, held in the office of Dr. Fox on Tuesday. Dr. Fox is chairman of the committee, having been ap- pointed last year to serve a two- year term. The orrery, a sort of miniature planetarium, was first used by the College for a number of years in the natural philosophy classes, and then stored away for a number of years more. During the last few month~> it has been repaired and refurbished by Dr. John Bellamy Taylor.

Pag·e'Two Qlunrur FUU!'\Df::D 1877 ··_j Causa Ptrsll Parole .-iHai'' :\1Crnl.H:r (If tl~;. -.h·~·-,l..'iatt!d l~,u,.g·iat•· l'l't•:-., :·wl dt~tl il;tlt~r~·-l'l\W t~d- lt-.gmtt• lligf'~t. __ . ___ _ Th~-7;lfit-it\.l-ilt'\\~Pa.Jn.:r uf tilt· ~:lidt·ut:-- ~-f~l~0\;;jh~gt-_ Pnhlh:ht~d Tn·~~- tlay and Fridays througli\llt tllv ,.,,llt•!;t• J•·a.I·. ______ _ _ _ _ I-!ditorinl Jtoums, :-;!IJi.tli<l!l I IaH, l 'n1u11 t~1 1lh:gv t_'at11lHl:-.. T\~!vphotw ~t·etH:•t·tady, .J:-ot;;;; _ --------- _____ _ Ili'tlilit·ution o{i'.i(·~r·ii-v {]·a~~-tl't· 1·;-J-~- ...... :;;;! :-1la.k ~t. ~~·ht·JitTI<ltl), ;\, Y .. Td.,[Jh<'lll' I-ll 11 l•;.ntert>ll at tllt.' ~L'iH'lll't'lo:uly l-'u~t t I!J~;·.::-_ :--lL·,-otul t 'I~GH ~la'!t•r. 8uLsel'iptiu 11 prin: Fi\t· 1 ·vlll:-. a ''''l'Y; $~; 1111 n )ear; t'lt•li\\t-'l't•d all~'\\~' iii lll~ l\Jllh·d s:alt•:-. St>nior 'Board· James E. Twining, Jr.. . . . . . ....... . . Editor-in-Chief ('hi· ] 1 ... 1 f,.odg-l~--1·1ii~:!~ Robl'rt R Eisnt•r ............................... Business Manager r.,:appa :'\u J'lt!li'--'P- 1- -;'~:1:1 Robert s. Schulb<'I'g .............................. AssoC'iate Editm• Phi ~i!-!fll<t I lt-J.l,l 1l Ol\:-t'-~;-lllli.\l Paul \\', Becli!'r _ .................................. Associate Editor :.!li ;..: H .. li]H--. .. 11 ~t l;-\;'.~t77 John D. l'hillips ..................................... Sports Editor P~1 I ·p .... ilt~ll !loll ::--t· 4- \:.tu John P. L!•wls .... _ ................................ Editor-at-Large Jack Rabinowitz ............................. Circulation Manager -------- l'hi Sigllla l)t>lta lluu:-t•- ~~~- REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING B'r National Advertising Service, Inc. College P11blishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CtUCAGO • DOSTOH • LOS ANGELES • SAH FRANCISCO ,Jlmior Board Jonathan Pearson Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman Allen Orton Sam~~_!'oltnoy _______ _ Sophomore Board , Robert Dake, Robert Bishop, Robert Nemeroff, Granger Tnpp, Thomas O'Connor, Richard \Vatanabe, Robert Hayn~r. Arthur Cohen, Charles Chase, Everett McCarty,, Norman Fox. RobPrt Allan, Photographic Editor Business Staff David Rodenblum Geo1ge Lieberman Ha1old MPssenger Justin Perh;tein, Stanley Greenstein, Donald Haigh, Laskar Schwartz. Myron Mills. ---- Issue Editor .... -- -.-.-. -. - .. -.~- .. -.-:-:-solomon BI~hman Robel t Ha:-, ner PLAUDITS- Assistaitts Harvey Fi\h b01w Frit!ay, Ap1 il 19, 1910 Everett MeCa1 ty \Vhen L'nion's I'hilomathean·~ <Jnnouncer! in October that theY were making tlw first ath,mpts m fm as coulr! be ascer- tail~ed in the l'nited ::-;tates to com·e1·t round-table discussion into intercollegiate debate, few a,t l' nion othe1· than the de- baters themselv!:.'s g·ave it a seconrl th<mght. In fact among :\linerva's hierarch~· of extra-curl'icular activities the Philo- mathean Society has never been the recipient of the plaudits accorded so many other campus ory:aniza:tions. ~o cheering crowds follow the moves of a <:arnet deliberator; little pub- licity accompanies the announcement 0!' a victory in debate. Perhaps it is the same at all collegiate institutions. Perhaps it is the fate of all controvet ti~ts to achie\'e unhemlded. The time has comt>, however, i<-1 break precedent. The Uni·on Philomathean Societ~· is deserving of ~til the commen- dation we can possibly bestow. Since. October when the above mentioned reo1·ganizatiot'l \'\'as effected in Union deba- ting·, the Philomatheans have earnest!~· concentrated to fun- da~1entallv establish a standard from which all future inter- colleginte .debating might hp ennstJnctl'rl ancl pt·acticed. The new svstem, a coordination of old ~tyle cleha.ting and the in- fol·ma.l 1 ound-talJie discussion, which l'nion was instn1mental in creating· and which the Society has been experimenting with all year, has proved to he most popular with all teams l 'nion has encountpreci. For some time before the i'nception of the new s~·stem, the Philomathean Societ~· had been conside1·ing the proposal to drop old :-;tyle dt>lJnting· which had fallen into disfavor on the campus, for .somP Iww and more appealing style, but due Lu the feeling that it would be ext1emely rlifficult to develop <tny sufficintly unive1·sal style of debate, little attempt at any change \\·as marie. :\Iemif.Jers of this year's varsity debating team a.nd the team's faculty aciviser undertook to bring about the sugg2sted change and with such success that it has been recentb· proposed for many other college debating societies. It is not our purpose to weigh the merits of the Philoma- the~m's innovation. Its success in practice speaks for itself. It is our purpose to bring to the attention of those whose· wol'ld does not include the activities of debaters the fact that at Cnion this organization can no longer be dmpped to the bottom of the list to be ciisregmded as a \minor\ activity 011 our campus. COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES ThP StudPnt Council of Rt:TGERS UNIVERSITY placed itself unanimously on l'!'l'nrd as oppw.:<'d to HlP I'P:tson for SUS)Jf'nsion by authoritiPs of thf' \Campm Nf'ws,\ N.EW .JERSEY COLLEGE FOR WOMEN publication. TilE' \Campus N f'\\s'' was suspended on Mar~h 22 for failm·.- to compl~· with J'Pgulations of thP collPgf' administra- tion. ThP RVT<H;Rs Ccun<'il ('Onsidp:;-ed only thP official announce- nwnt of thP susp<'nsion of thP 22 yea-r old wo·men's publication and admittPd that it '\a\ not in po ;s~ssion of inclusive evidence con- <'f'l'lling thf' action. As a rPsult of th•• r!'moval o1' tw(, restrictions observed by the forty-seven men's fraternitit>s at I'I':NNSYLVANIA STATE COL· LEGE over a period of tPn yt>a.ro or more, f.ratHnities will be per- mitte-d next fall to p!Pdge and l\<lge llf\W mcmbe~s at any time during the rushing- wr.f'k. Thf' chungPs, vot~d by the Intei1'r.atei'llity Council, werf' ad·Dpt!'d in am>wPr to growing competition from room- ing ho.us<\s and non-ft·atPrnity ~rnUJis. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1940 CAPRICE New Theory of Matter in Meteors Is Offered By Professor Rojansky The battle for the presidency Is o·etting a dirty deal thi::- year. The 8candana vian situation i:; pushing it to inconspicuous columns of our great metropolitan dailies. We \view thh; with alarm\. What with pcss.ble thil·d tet·ms and Mr. Mc- Nutt rretting a .tempma1y leave of absen;e so as to better lJUn·ue his campaign and Tommy Dewey bounc- ing all a vet· the coun t1 y stumping and J. Nance Gat ner getting wash- ed out in Wisconsin, this business of woefuHy ml'agre publicity is dis- heartening, to say the least. Let ic· not ·bP said, however, that the gocd women of Smith College, a venet·a·ble cr.ganization in the township of Northam.pton, Massa- chusetts, at'e taking all of this sit- ting down. Their righteous in- d'ignation is translated into action. ro use thP colloquial, the ·babes at'e \hep\. Hepub!icans Stril<e First Scme weeks ago 1 Vvc cant find the exact date becau>·e- somebody has been dl'iftmg off with our ex- changes> seve1 a! young ladies de- cided to band together and openly show the it• leanings. The 1 esult was the birth of the Republican Club of Smith College. Fanfare of trumpets! Said young ladies held a couple of meetings at one of which the record of tne Republican paJ·.ty wa» ~iscussed and at a·nother posuble G.O.P. presidential nomi- nees wet·e considPred. The ac- ccmplishmcnts were cmwned off when the g1 uup instituted a poll, the pUI·pose of which was to ti·nd who Smith thought was the man to ride the white Plephant in the appl oaching election. M01·e fan- .faic.s~ Such action was bound to bring forth upheavals. We quote from the Apnl 10 issue of the Smith \\Vpekly\: \Tho Democmtic Club wa,; bm·n in Mr. Whitmm·c'; Gcv- ernment 21 classes.\ The Democrau we1en l kidding around with diseus~ion group& ana polls. They im•ited the Honorable Kobe1·t H. J ack:;on, Attorney Gen- eral of the United States, to come to Northampton and speak to their PLAO~l'tlENT NO'l'ICES Thet e will be a placement di:;- CUFSion on hotel worl> led bj· Mr. H. 0. Kimball of the Van Curler Hotel on Monday evening, April 22. Registration close,; at noon on Saturday. Mr. Donald L. Millham of the class of '27 bas tentatively set Tuesday, A pi il 23, as the date for interviewing men interested in the Business Training Course of the General Eleetl'ic Company. BlanKs and additional material are avail· able at the Placement Bureau. Mr. R .0. Davis of Sears, Roe- buck & Company will intez·view seniors interested in work with his organizatio::l on Wednesday, Ap11l 24. Appointments may be made ',t the Placement Bureau. W. Bradley Plummer of the clas~ of '36, is a radio engineer with Aerovoice, Inc., manufacturers of aviation, police and mal'ine radio equipment, at Islip, Long Island. Seniors inte1·ested in the radio communication field are asked to call at the Placement Bureau fat· Mr. Plummer states the1·e are ad- ditional openings. Dr. Carl E. McCombs of the class of '04, will be glad to hear from seniors interested in public ad- ministration. This alumnus is with the Institute of Public Administra- tion. 261 Broadway, New York City. Further details are available at the PlacPment Bureau. 0 FRATERNITY CONCLAVE The Phi Sigma Delta fraternity will hold its annual regional con- clave jointly at the Union and R.P.I. chapels this weekend. Tonight a smoker will be held here and to- mol'l·ow night a dance will be held at R.P.I. A banquet will close the ccnclave Sunday night at the Union ~hapter house. Headquarters for club . .!\Ir. Jaclison sa-itl yes, came to A d·iscussion of a new type of<b-----------· -- ------- the campus last Wednesday, and, matter which may po::sibly •lile f.rwm out!:'lCe space. That is, they f1om what we hear, the Republic'in found in shooting stars i< to be do not belong to the sol3r :;;o,stem Club wept in its vodka. found in a thesis 1 eeently wri-tten by origin, 'but have been adced to Democrats Draw Mor(• Blood by VlaC:imil M. Rojansky. The next it by t-he cun·s pul·l. The v.ery ex- \.re quote once more from the di:mlay of this sola!· pheHomena is· i:;tance of these comets m1ght be \Weekly\: '·The mganization \Re- scheduled for tomol'l'ow evCH·ing, explained by their consisting of the publican Club) hopes to become April 20 . new ];inC.s of_ atom~. 'fhe ta.ils of affiliated with the College Repu•b- Profe~!'Cl' B.ojans!{y has o.J'lered the comet;> m1ght lile caused by the licans of A met ica which in tum is to t·he University of Chicago's de- special kind of heating that would affiliated with thP Republican partment of astrophy<ics, a .possible 1·esult from the cestruction ·Of such National Committee.\ clue ior demonst 1 ·ating a new kind atom£. And again: \The club !Demo- of matter, \coHtraterrene matter.\ When a meteol', or shooting sta1· era tic Club l has been accepted ... by Such matter, he sa) s, mig·ht lile made of such atoms passes t·h16ug h the ·state Democratic Committee.\ pl e•:ent in comets that enter the the earth's atmos·phel e, it is bam- Huge, moist Republican tea1 s solar system from other ·parts of barded by the earth's atoms. Here flowed in torrents when they learn- the universe, and alw in meteors the two kinds of at0ms collide; the ed that oncE' more the New Dealers produced by the lilreaking u.p of earthly and the uneat.thly \contla- had beaten them to the punch. How- these comets. In fact tbe theory tcl'lene\ type£. eVPI don't think for a mi·nute that suggest> a new ma.chinery of the The collid'i.ng 0f the PI'Oton .of the the RepubJi.cans lost their head> comets. The new matter col'lsists two types of hydrogen atoms would after the!r diplomatic ~·et-back. The of atoms that are ··i 11 ,iC:e-out- re:;ult h1 their mutl:lal annihHatior.. ''Weekly\ metely states that \The atoms\ compared with the atoms According to Prof. Albert Einstein's Republican Club ha~ given no ot'- known on ealth. law, fot· Pach such encounter and ficial comment as yet on tf1e ot· Scientist:; have wol'lde 1 ed why no annihilation, there would be re- ganization cf a 1 ivai g.wu.p. A such atoms have been d·iscovered . .Jeased two ::-upet-·-::-.·ays, each ct meeting has been scheduled for. Ordinat·y atoms a 1 e a.n mace of two one bil'lion electron volts energy. Tuesday, Apli·l 16 at Student' Build- things: a nuclea 1 core which car- lf it is t1 ue that the eatth re- ing.\ l'ies po!:'itive electlicity and one or celves 50,000 tons of shooting sta1s T1·uel \Old Gua1 disn1\ we have mol·e electrons of negative eJ.ect 1 i- every day, and if they were all never seen. The epitome of thou- city swirling on the outside. The made of the new material, then the sands a·nd thousands 0f G.O.P. 1 .eve1 ·,e of this would ·be: Atoms of heat t•eleased .by thei·r colliding with statements, as it were. Lordy, how nuclear cores of negative electri- ea.rthly a turns would raise the tern- we love the Republican>.-! city, and outEide electrons of posi- perature by 2250 degrees Fahren- But don't go thinking that we're tive electricity. If the whole uni- heit, Rojansky calculates. biased because we real'ly don't care ve 1 :;-e is properly balanced, there Tht ough such methods the theory too much one way or the other. should be as many negatively of new matter could be checked ac- We juS'l wend our unimportant charged atomic ·cores as there are corC:ing to Rojan<:ky. way, studying human natme, positive onee. ----a------- It is 1·efteshing <gcod word, 1·e- The f.act that nobocy has yet STUD~NT COUNCI·L MEETING fleshing), nevertheless, to know found a·n atom with a negative An important meeting of the Stu that somebody is 1 eally interested electrical heart, and positive elec- dent Council wHI be held Monda:, in this election that, we under:;tand, trica·l outer sldrte, has remained an night at 7:45 in the General Engi- .s comin~ up ooon. We've heat·d, unsolved riddle of the universe. Ro- neering Building. All members are he1·e and there, that the under- jansky's suggeEtion is. that outside urged to be present. graduate of today it: going right our solar syf'tem matter might be to pot. Just doesn't ca1 e about the built up on the reverse pattern great American in!ltituticm,;. Bro- with atoms of negative cote~. the1·, it ain't true! Some of the comets a1e believed DENTISTRY One has but to look at the Rc- to have been captu1 ed by the sun publican and Demcc1atic Oubs of 'l\!w fi-eld of llenlist·ry today offers tn Po!lt..ge Htudents an a'ttT'Hf'tive f':t- reel'. It provides n worthy irrtelle<·- ~ual l'hullenge, a life of profeBsiona'l :o:t•r\O:t·t:' \Vith HHtif.factory int'ume, m:ri Htl npport unity for re~en.reh and tf\ndling in this divis~on nt' mediPal sl'ienl'e awl art. Smith College I Mr. Seelye, its fil st president, was a Union man> for cot roberation. American college students, interested in what's going on, arguments and stuff. They'1 e okay, they are. Strud FRATERNITY NOTICES The Phi Sigma Delta frateznity announces the initiation of Mar- vin Epstein, '43. The Kappa Alpha fratemity an- · nounces the pledglng of Avery .John Beet·, '42, of Rochester, N. Y. For the New Spring Styles of • SHIRTS • ATHLETIC SHIRTS and SHORTS (Mansco) • PAJAMAS • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORT WEAR \Known as the BeEt-And Tbe Best Known\ VI NICK'S MEN Is SHOP 514 STATE ST. Shirts THE CARL CO. ----, Summer Employment Massachusetts Corporation of- fers pleasant and profitable em- ployment to undergraduates and senioz·s. Ability to speak in pub- lit· ht>lpful. ~o hoUSI:'- to- hoU~t>. Many undergraduates in past summer<: have found this asso- ciation meets their financial needs. Write Box Number 528, Westfield, Massachu~etts, for ex- planation. Stanley, Inc., 54 Arnold St., Westfield, Mass. Attention F. S. Beveridge, Pres. THEY'R~ SWITCHING TO Tlu~ t'\uiversity of Pennsylvania hB~ Phlparetl nwre than six thousand gr;u!uateH who are D('l'Upying posi- tions of imvortmtf'P in tile- }JrDft>~sion throug-hout tlw WO•l'ld. ltH Pour,;e of iHstJ\Uctioll l.H uf the highe:::;t order. Auynne iutt\\l'~:-:-o.te<l in this prnfes\ Hion a~ u life wori~ i~ invited tu aJl- p'y for fntthPr information to Dean of the Sehool of Dentistry University of Pennsylvania 40th and Spruce Streets Philadelphia, Pa. \Manhattan's the smoothest shirt in town\- so swings the cpen secret of the classroom grape- vine. And that's shirt news that's good news for you, too! Get into Fashion's stride with some spanking new Manhattan Shirts designed to give a nifty lift to all your suits. Tailored in top-rank style from eye- filling fabrics. Famed for fit and classic comfort. Stop at your favorite trading post and see them today! The Latest I n •• If any Manhall!>n Shirt ever shrinks below the indicated size, we will give you c: new shirt. 7eotod and ap- proved by the Am· erican Institute of Laundering. Charles Holtzman & Son. Inc. ! 1 ---~~ ~===:;;:~~~= 25 = 9 ~sr=A=TE=s=r·~~~==~~~ SHIRTS • PAJAMA'S -HANDKERCHIEFS ·SPORTSWEAR I ·~ F op of AI NO Dl in '3~ 1 pl::i Th 1ai pla La go< fie .pla 1 th€ t:Ji' Hv Ro thE ,po· ga: OUl '( us, lin aft (hE La Me st, in.e in~ nu 1 Ch sa< eit at ca' tio ha in ye: his thE scr thE spE wil air his to wil up. sto hir a.s Hi: hit Tu of ne· ye: wil Ea t1 a op Pa an geJ we He > e; acbi eal thi via thE of 81'1 hiE tht on sit fir ye; a 1 th! no' diE Dt: jel hu bu. up us· as Pa thE Pa to ye: lik go l aft an ad Pa fin da. an

they d to ex- be the s of th~ auld the the auld tior:. ein's and t·e- ct re- all the eory ac- Stu are f':t- na;l nia of UJJ- THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1940 Page Three BASEBALL AND TRACK SEASON OPENS TOMORROW 0--- Hanson Receives Hurling Ass.i,gnment N. v. Giant Football clJach For Dutchmen A.gainst Middlebury Palmer, Brockner, Re.illy, Rath·lev, RaHsta,nger, Patrie, Weintraub to Start; Third Base Uncertain The Dutchmen step into the baseba.U picture with their opening contest of a twelve game schedule when they square off with the Middlebury Panthers on Saturday afternoon on Alexande1· Field. With a benificent smile frorn Ol' Sol and a nod from the weather man lhe chances will be bright for the DutchmeH to play their scheduled opener for the first time in two years, ti·lts with Colgate having been rained out in '38 and '39. Prospects for the game being<~-----------­ played a.ppearcd none to bright on who Thursday afternoon as Hn all day may start against Union Liehr, a freshman, is the number two moundsmeB, followed by Ben- nett and Desmond who so far haven't shown much. Captain Art Jacques does the catching for the fourth year in a row. tain left Alexander Field in poor playing condition. However Coach Lawrence announced that with good wea,ther on Ftiday to dry the field out the conteEt would ·be .played. The Dutchmen last met the Pan- thers in '38 when they twisted their tai'l to the tune of 3-1 behind effec- tive seven hit pitching 'by \Lefty\ Robinson. In 1937 Union opened their seaEOn with Middlebury ,pounding out a 19-8 victory. The game with Middlebury was washed out last year. Hanson to Pitch Coach Lawrence has nominated \Swede\ Hanson to go to the firing line for the Dutchmen on Saturday afternoon with Harry Palmer on the receiving end of his offetings. Lawrence is holding lanky AI Mould back for the MasEachusetts Sta.te game on next Tuesday. Rob- inson does not figure into the pitch- ing plans for awhile as he is still nursing a lame arm. Backing up the \Swede\ will be Charlie Br ockner at the initial sack, Ned Reilly at second and either Bob Garnett or Al Turchick at third. Mickey Rathlev will bacl{ cavorting at his old shol'tEtop posi- tion. Brockner at filst is a veteran having perfmmed at the spot and in the outfield for the last two years. His power at the plate is his forte having batted well over the .300 mar·k for the last two ::ea- scns. Reilly was the sparl,plug of the freshman dub last year and his speed and throwing arm at Eecond will give an added strength to an already strong infield. Because of his diminutive height, and a·bility to work a pitcher for a walk he will ·probably bat first in the line- up. Rathlev took over the short- stop spot last season and proved himself a dependable fielder as well as the po.::sessor of a rifle-like arm His potent bat led tho team in the hitting averages last season. AI Turchick squeezed Bob Garnett out of the hot corner last year but Gar- net is back fighting for the past year and it is a tossup which one will start the season on Satmday. Raifstanger in Lineup Lawrence has picked Fred Patrie, Earl Raifstanger ~.nd \Tiny\ Wein- traub to patrol the outfield for the opener against the Panthers with Patrie in center, Raifotanget· in left and 'Weintraub in right. Raifstan- gcr is a new face in the lineup as well as to the .baseball at Union. He did not play freshmen ball last ~car, but a strong arm and the ability to pummel the hor oehide ha~ earned him a berth on the varsity thi~ year. Patrie is a veteran ball- player having pia) ed first:base and the outfield two years ago. Fleet of foot and a powerful throwing arm mark him in the field whll~ his bat produced an average over the .300 mark Weintra.ub has had one year's experience with the var- sity playing in and outfield and at first base in several games last year. \Tiny\, a slugger as well as a good fielcer, will add a punch to the scoring of the team. \Swede\ Hansen has gotten the nod from Coach Lawrence to han- dle the pitching assignment for the Dutchmen. Hanson has had two ~ears experience ao a varsity hurler. Last season he worked mainly in the role of relief hurlet but twice started games, chalking up wins over Hamilton and· R P. I. \Swede\ has a nice curve as well as good control and with Hany Palmer working him from behind the plate should pitch a nice game Palmer is one of the best receivers to wear Union colors in many years; a smart catcher and a rifle- like peg to any base as well as a good hitter in the pinches. Weak Pitcher Midd·lebury comes to Schenectady after meeting Colgate on Thursday and Hartwick on Friday. With an admittedly weak pitc.hing corps, the Panthers may be hard pressed to find a competent hurler on Satur- day. They have but one hurler with any experience, Van Graesbeck, Panthers Strong The Panthers will ha.ve Ed Yeo- meBs at first, a heavy hitter, and Mahoney at second. Whitey Hawe~ will be at short and Red Johnson at thi·rd. Neither Hawes nor Ma- honey are hitters but are reputedly \- smooth working second base com- bine. Both Mahoney and Johnson saw action against the Dutchmen on the gridiron this fall. Jacques. Hawes and Mahoney have all play- ed against Union ball clubs before in '37 and '38. In the out field Middlebm y will start Pertuzzi in left, Shea in cen- ter and Prukop in right. Prukop led the team in hitting as a fresh- man last year but is only a fail fielder. Shea in center is fast on foot and has a good arm and may double in the 100 and 220 in the track meet. Pertuzzi is a heavy hitter and can pitch. Possibly he may see service on the mound. The Panthers appear to have a well balanced team in the field with six veterans in key spots and with a team ·Of reputedly hard hitters they may cause the Dutchmen some trouble. With their apparent weak- ness in the pitching staff and games on Friday and Thursday, their hurlers may have trouble floating the ball past Brockner, Pa- trie, Rathlev and Co. UNc!ON vs, MIDDLEBURY Union Middlebury lb Brockner ....... , . Yeomens 2b Reilly . . . . . . . . . . . . Mahoney 3b Garnett. Turchiclc .John.son fS Rathlev ............. Hawes If Raifstanger ........ Bertuzzi cf Patrie . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shea rf Weintraub .......... Prukop c Palmer .......... , . Jacques p Hanson ..... VanGraesbecl!; PRESHMAN TENNIS All candidates for the freshman tenni::' team are requested to re- pot·t for practice in the Alumni Gym on Monday, April 22 at 2:30. Kraut's .ru-t lHOI!IIII th~ ~omer on En, tern A u~nue C!nnllty lee Cream I.lg'llt l.UJI(\IH'S Douw F. Beekman Gasoline • Brake Service U.S. Tires- Motor Tune-up Exides - Lubrication e Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 601 UNION ST. Open Until II P. M. PARAMOUNT PETE'S 22 Church St. Ph. 1613 \TOPS in SARATOGA\ for Union Dates Featuring the NEW Marine Room Completely Renovated Come in and Enjoy Yourself Visits Athletic Department Steve OVI enb, coach of .the New York Giants, professional football club, who lost to the Green Bay Packer~ in the game for the national title this fall, visited the Union College Ath- letic Department this week on a business trip he Is making to several colleges in the East in connection with his position as vice-presiden.t of th~ Thorpe Football Eqaipment Company. While here Owen spent several hours in discu!'sinns with Coach Nels Nitchman, Pt·ofessor Har- old Wittner, Director of Ath- letics, Line Coach Al Ciampa and Sam Hammerstrom, Little AN- American back and captain of Union's u n d e feat e d football team, on various football offen- sive and defensive techniques. Owen al.so showed the group pic- trures of the New York Giants- Chicago Bear game of last fall. Owen, who is visiting Syracuse und Cornell on this trip, was accompanied by Jack Lavelle, a salesman of the Thorpe Athletic Equipment Company. Alexander Field Contract Awarded College authorities announced ycstcJ·day that the contract for the. rehabi!Hation of Alexander Field ha\ been awarded to the Rubien · Construction Company of Westfield, N.J. The contractors are planning to· begin the work on A·lexander Field immediately after commencement in June and expect tu have the d1·ainage pipes laid, new grass suwn and the field resal'faced by tall. fhe 1941 baseball season has f:>ee,1 cancelled because the authorities felt that even next spring the n\w- ly planted grass would be unable. to stand the daily practice ~essions of the Dutchmen ballchaser:>. Few changes are being planned ir the general arrangement of the· playing facilities of the field 'il-' though the baseball diamond wr.JI: be moved away from the football. field so as to minimize the wear 'Jn· the football turf. The location uf · the bt oad jump, pole vault and~ high jumping pits will be rear-· ranged slightly but the position of the cinder t·unning tr·ack will not be changed. Lacrosse men Meet Swarthmore Saturday in Second Tilt of Season The varsity lacrosse team left~ for Swarthmore, Pa.. this after- noon where they will meet the Quakers tomorr·ow in their second game of the year and the seventh for Swarthmore. The Dutchmen have previously dropped their opener to a str·ong Hobart club. lineup with Paul Mara at the sec- ond defense poEt. The other start- ers will be Dud Holmes in the goal; Bob Nothacker at point; Chuck Passe, center point; Bob Newton, first defense; Jack Guibert, center; Ed Ward, second attack; Ronnie Ostrandet·, first attack; Co-captain Merlin Fay, uut home; Co-captain Mike Stillman, in home. The sq ua<l has been drilling all week on the Library Field but have been prevented from any vigorous sct immage because of wet tur.f which might cause injuries as the reEult of slipping. Last week the varsity succumbed to a Hobart team which was in far better con- dition and had the benefits of actual play. Again the Dutchmen enter a ~onlest with lack of practice while the Quake1s are in the middle of their schedule. Opening its sea,;on Swarthmore defeated William,; College, 10 to 3, then fell victim to a strong Dart- mouth sq.uad and the Washington Lacrosse team. The Quakers have since met Penn State and Wash- ington and Lee, and engages Vir- ginia today. Coach Harkness will take the same men on today's trip who went to Hobart for the opener. Hark- ness ind.cated today that he will replace Bob Cot by in the opening Bob Panoff, diminutive sopho· more. will be in rt>serve, most like- ly to see action in the contest. Other reserves will be Pat Knopf, Fred Longe, Snerry Billick, Ed Schulze, Bob Corby, Dick Griffith and Don Haigh. Following the Swarthmore contest, the Garnet will return home early Sunday morning and start practice Monday for a five-game home stand, clos- ing the schedule on June 1 in a tilt with Syracuse. The Quakers have an experienced and veteran squad Jed by high scor- ing Fred Donnely, first attack. Pot- ter follows close on Donnely's heels in the fast and smooth Swarthmore attack. Goalie McCormack will give Dud Holmes a good fight for honors· in S!)ectacular and efficient Eaves in the cage. ARROW CLASSICS Gordon Dover I. The authentic Gordon Dover oxford shirt ranks first with undergraduates because of the distinc- tive button-down roll collar that curves away from the tie-knot. (Dubbed 'semester shirt' because of its longevity). 2. The SusseK, a new Arrow shirt for fall, has a low drape - moderately wide-spread collar. Cur- rent:y favored in England, the Arrow Sussex is destined to be a campus 'must.\ Very smart and flattering. Windsor Tab Sussex 3. For fall tab shirts should comprise lk of your wardrobe. Their ~ppish appearance add dignity and poise. The Windsor tab collar has square cut points with a higher band around the neck. A prerequisite for those men with a propensity for long necks. All Arrow shirts are Mitoga cut and Sanforized~Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than I%). In whites and neat patterns - almost a give away at $2 and $2.50. All sleeve lengths and neck sizes, Union, Middlebury In Track Opener Dutchmen Strong In Field Events Union Weak in Hurdles; Middlebury Has Edge In Dashes; Coach Ke+z Predicts Close Finish <V----- --. -------- By TOM O'CONNOR Coach Bill Ketz will send the the 880. For the field events. Shot- put and high jump, discus and pole vault, javelin and broad jump. 1940 track team into action for the first time against Middlebury tomorruw if the weathet· i:> fai·r and. the track good. A goud track will be almust imperative fur a Union victory in the running events in which the Datchmen have not shown up so well so far. Accord- ing to Ketz the mile has not been ,·un in less than five minutes in any practice session so far this season, but this does not mean that the men are not capable of ma·king better time under pressure as shown by the fact that Bill Johnson has done the mile jog in 4:43. Coach Ketz reveals that he i~ weak in the hurdles but that may he the only event that Middlebury has the edge on the Garnet. Field Events Strong The Dutchmen are relying heav- ily on the field events to see them through the day with the winning score on their side. Due to the weather neither team has had a lot of time to practice outdoors so that in this 1·espect they ought to shape up abuut evenly. One thing lies heavily in Union's favor: the fact that they beat Middlebury in ct·os:;-counhy in the fall. The Union entl'ies for Saturday will be: 100 yard dash, Bob Eric- son, Howie Smith and John Baas. The 220, B.ob Ericson, Bob Muther and John Ehrcke. The 440, Bob Muthe!' and Jim Bothwel. The 880, Ted Robinson, Bernie O'Neil and Gale Hoffman. The mile, Doc Maines, Bill Johnson and Brad Hastings. The tv:o mile, Frank Melewicz, Dick Conley and Don Collins. High hurdles, Walter Plum- mer and Bill Daly. Low hurdles, BothwelL Shot-put, Ernie Baden- stab, Adam Ciesimki and Bundy Shaw. Discus, Bodenstab, Shaw and AI Callan. Javelin, Burt Brittin, Tom Merson and Ed Keers. High jump, Smith and Gus Morrison. Pole vault, John Senn and Morri- son. Broad jump, Herb Smith, Lou Dacundo and Emlen Hutchins. Meet Under Way at 12:30 The shot-put and high jump events will begin at 12:30 p. m. and the high hurdles will begin at 1:00 p.m. The events will be run off in the following order: For the run- ning: 120 high hurdles, 100 yard dash, mile, 440 yard dash, two mile run, 220 low hurdles, 220 yard and In the shot, Pat Vartuli, football star, is the best bet and there are two promising fr·eshman, Poole and Morehou>e. The javelin throw is the Panther's stt·cmgest event with JohBny 'Zydik out to break the state record of 182 feet. Last year Zydik threw 181 feet as a fresh- man. Their veteran, George Davis, looks good in the discus and in the high jump Roy Tabor is holder of the college record. Dick Barclay and Johnny Trask are both veterans in the pole vault and are reported to be better this year. ----0--- 16 Candidates Report For Varsity Golf T earn Hopes for an undefeated golf team were given new life yester- day when five veterans and six sophomore stars answered the first call for candidates for the varsity golf team. Practice for the sixteen candidates will get under way as soon as the weather permits, in preparation for the first match with Syracu~e on May 1. Captained by Foster Brown who in 1938 won the Taconic Invitation Tournament, the team will be bol- stered by the return of four other veterans. Herb Watson, Gil Kopf, Clare Graves, Ben Lord, who was captain of the 1939 varsity, Howie Matt, and Foster Brown, have all had expet·ience with the Dutchmen link team. Six good prospects have come up ~rom last year's freshman squad Ill Andy Kay, Jim Pinkston, Joe Mudge, Eric King, Madison Mitch- ell and Charles Clowe. Neal Lou- don, exchange student from St. Andrew~. has· shown great promise and should win a spot on the var- sity. Other men shooting for berths on the team are John Cone, Norm Diedrich, and Lou Ames. The varsity linksmen open their schedule on May 1 against Syra- cuse and face the Orangemen again on May 13. Other engage- ments are with Williams, two matches with Middlebury and two with Hamilton. At the completion of their schedule the team expects to enter the intercollegiate golf tournament. Can Your Shirts Stand A Close-Up? J\LL shirts at a distance look more or less I\.. alike, but b a candid close-up Arrow shirts are instantly distinguishable because of their trim, good-looking Arrow collars. Arrows arc precision cut, evenly stitched, and shaped to fit the curve of your neck, with the pattern on the collar points symmetrically balanced. No unsightly bunching or collar-curling has ever cursed an Arrow shirt. They're Mitoga shaped to fit and Sanforized-Shrunk ... fabric shrinkage less than 1%. Get some new Arrows today, before your next date ... $2 up. ARROW SHIRTS

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1940 Dr. Henry Coffin To Spea,k Sunday Gordon Jacobs Finishes Homework At Television Station Controls INTRAMURAL SOFTBALL SCH·EDULE Discussion on Cancer Cure Will Be T epic Nero might have fiddled while•-------------- Rome burned but Gordon Jacobs, '43, does his homework while the we start looking for the trouble, If In Town Meeting television tran:;mitter of w 2 xB, it is just an overload·, we switch in the General Electric station, buzzes another relay and quickly replace happily on. Though he is only a: the part so that the transmission fre~hman enrolled in the electrical: is hardly interrupted. If it is some- \Thou Shalt Not Hide T·hy:;elf\ engineering course, Jacobs has been, thing else, we start looking for the will be the topic of the sermon of a full fledged radio ham for sev-· trouble and hope that we can re- Dr. Henry Sloane Coffin, Pte~ident' Hal ).'Pat·s and a comniercial tele- pair it quickly, If everything goes of the Union Theologtca! ::5emmar~· vi~ion engine!'!' since last fall. perfect!~· I caR do my homework in New York City at the regular t:nlike a policeman',; lot, the job: while the set ta·kes care of itself.\ N rl · ha el sei'VI·cn In Last fall Jacobs passed the gov- ~~; :i~e~no~~~~~~. ~ouis C. Kress. of ~ t<>l<'vi~inn \\l'i\\\\ i~ \\ PHRY' el'lllllt•nt exaruiuation for Televbkm orw. At prpsent all the images are. operators. Jobless, but in proud. of Buffalo, director of Cancer Con- shortwaved from New York to a. trol of the State Depat·tm!'nt of d B possession of his license, he special relay station an W2X re- ''pestered\ the General Electric, Health and Dr. John M. Swan ol wave,; them to Schenectady's sixty Rochester, Executive Sect etaly of own!'rs of televi,;ion receivers . .rae- C'ompany until they gave him a: the State Committee of the Amer- obs is on thP job three nights a: part time position. Paid for ten. ican Society of Cancer Control will weeks, ,;eeing· that the programs: hours' work, he actually is at the discuss \How Can We Reduce are t'l'Ceived undistorted and that controls· of the station for only', h f C Th h E · ,;ix hours. During the winter it, De at rom ancer rung· cu- b1 eak:; are l<ept tu a minimum .. takes the engineei•~ four hours to. cation?\ at the Empire State Town \Th · t ct · h' h e Meeting in the Old Chapel at three Pl'P 5 a , Pa y nm~e w tc on drive to and from the transmis-! get~ u~ed to when the set iB trans- sion shack over rough country, o'clock. mitting perfectly,\ lw explained. roads. Now that the snows are: Author and TPa<'iwr \\A'hf'n something goes or there is· gone, it take• but an hour each, Dr. Coffin \;; a wel1-l{nown author an overload on the transmitter a' noi\e like 'kerplunk' sou. nds and·, way, Jacobs r.eported, of religious books, having VI.Tilten A library record is claimed by: fourteen ;dnce his ordination fo1ty Jac0bs who maintains that he has year~ ago. A member of the P1<·~- ('ALI<;NDAR read every book on television in ail byterian ministry since 1900, Dr.· Toda;r the college libraries. \Most of them Coffin had been pastOl' at a num- ~.30 p. nL Glee Club Concert are already behind the times,\ he. ber of New York chuJehes befu1e and Danel' at thP :\1ohawk , said, ''because television develops· becoming As>ociate Profe>:;DI' uf Golf Club. , so fast.\ · Practical Theology at the t:'nion Saturday Theological Seminary. In 1928 liP 10:00 a. m. Daily Assembly. became its pre~it:ent. Spealu·r. DL Charles N. Wal- Dr. Kress has recently cond uctec drun. an extensive pi ufcB~ional and Ia~ 10;20 a .. m. Spring Meeting of educational p10gram on cancer G1 adua.te Council in Tr·ophy throughout :'-lew Yorlc 'Sta.te by Room of Gymnasium. meanB uf illustratetl IL•dun·,, 1 ad.iu 1.00 p. nt. Varsity Track. Union broadcast;;, litet·atut e antl l'Xhibits. v:s. :\Iidull'bUl'y at Schenectady. Both he and Dr. Swann havl' lung 3:00 p. m. - Var:;ity Baseball. been as~ociated wHh cancer controL t:niun w. :\IIddlebury at Sche- 0 Sunday Recital A violin and piano sonata recital will be given this Sunday at 4:00 p.m., in the Memol'ial ChapP!. by Anthony Stefan, violinist, and Jos- seph Derrick, pianist. The pmgram will feature thl' wu1·k,; uf Beethuven, Brahms and Faure. The program: L Sonata in F 1\lajor, Ludwig von Beethoven Allegro Adagio molto Scherzo Rondo IL Sonata in A l\lajur, Johannes Brahms Allegro amabile Andante tranquille Allegro grazio,;o III. Sonata in A Major Gabl'iel Faure twetady. 3.00 p. m. Var·sity Lacro:;se. Un10n v~. Swa1 thmore at Swarthmore. S:OO p. m.·--Christian Association 'Yleeting in Hale House. Speak- PI', Dr. Henry Coffin. Sunday 11 ;00 a. m. Sunday Service. Spt'akl'r, Dl'. Henry Sloane Coffin. 3:15 p. m. Town Meeting of the Air in Old Chapel. .J:OO- 01gan Recital by Dr. Tidmarsh in Memorial ChapeL Monday 5-6 p. m. Public Speaking Class in Old ChapeL 7:00 p, m.-- Family Welfare Bu- reau in Hale House followed by meeting in Old ChapeL 7 30 p. m.-Band. RehParsal in Gymnasium. Tuesday 10.00 a. m. -- Dally Assembly. - ---o--- Quarterly Polls Senior Opinions Results To Be Released In Final 'ldol 1 Issue Out Memorial Day For the f.iret time in several yeare, the senior class was poHed, on Wednesday, to determine its out- standing members and ascertain opinions on current topics. Directed by editors of the Idol, the results of the balloting will be published in the final iesue of the Idol, Mem- orial day. The members voted for their classmates who have \done most for Union,\ wet e most likely to ~uc­ ceed,\ \were handsomest,\ and twelve other distinctions. Also four out-of-the-ordinary titles were con- ferred on the etudent who was the \noisiest \the biggest 'bluffer,\ \the lover,\ and the student who had \done Union for the most.\ AMERICAN LEAGUE Ph.i Sigma Chi Dol to. Kllllllll J(!l]lJIR Sigma Pili Psi UJlSilon Nu Alpha Who's Deltn Pl1i Sigma 4-18 4-26 5-2 5-6 5-13 llelta I,ealling 12:45-1 12:45-2 12:45-3 7:30-1 12:45-3 Sigma 4-18 5-14 5-7 4-26 5-~ Phi 12:45-1 'rile 12: ·15-3 12:45-2 12:45-1 12:45-2 Chi 4-26 5-14 Intm· 4-18 4-24 5-6 Psi 12:45-2 12:45-3 mural 12:45-3 12:45-1 12:45-3 Delta 5-2 5-7 ·1-18 Soft· 5-8 4-29 Upsilon 12:45-3 12:45-2 12:45-3 ball 12: ·15-3 12:45-3 Kappa 5-6 •1-26 4-24 5-8 <119 Nu 7:20-1 12:4'5-1 12:4n-1 12:·15-3 LPall'UP 12:45•2 Katllla 5-13 5-2 5-U 4-::!tl .J-IU AltJha 12:.J5-3 12:45-2 12: {5-3 12 :.J:5-3 12:45-2 Rltrel Phi GalUIIUI 5-8 5-13 5-3 5-1 5-H ·1-24 Delta 1!:!: l:::i·l 7 :3()-~ 1~: 1 ~-1 1?. l!i-~ 7 ·~n-~ 1 ~ · 4n-R Sigma 4-29 5-8 5-7 5-6 5-1 4-23 Chi 7:30-1 7:30-2 7:30-1 12:45-2 12:~fi-1 12:·15-2 Psi 4 '}•) 4-30 5-13 5-14 ri-7 5-1 --- L'JJsllon 12:45-3 12:45-3 12:45-1 12:45-1 1:.!:·15-3 7:30-3 NATIONAL LEAGUE Phi Ueta. Theta Sigma Theta l{U]l)lll llelta Delta Head l{UJlJllt Pi Sig-ma Clll Chi The 4-H 4-26 5<! 5-7 ii-13 NeulrnJ~ 12:45-2 12.46-3 12 :45-1 12:45-·1 7:30-1 Phi Sig-ma ·1-'18 ·1-30 4-23 4-29 5-3 l{lllJPll 12:45-2 S]IOrts 12:45-1 12:45-3 12: 45-~ 12:45-3 Heht 4-26 4-30 4-19 ·1-24 5-G Theta l'i 12:·15-3 12:45-1 Pag,e 12:15-1 12: ·15-2 7 :30-2 Kappa 5~:.! 4-~3 4-·19 fi-X 4-29 Sigma 12:·15-1 12:45-3 12:45-1 for 7:30-1 1~:45-1 llelta 5-7 4-29 ·1-2·1 5-8 4-19 Clt1 12:45-1 12:45-2 1:! :·15~~ 7:30-1 Latest 1:! :·15-3 Theta 5-13 5-3 5-U 1-~9 4-19 Delta l'hi 7:30-1 1~ :45-3 7 :30-:! 12:+;;-1 12 :-15-3 Coll~gc Pill IJ~Itu :i-8 5-13 5-3 5-1 5-H 4-25 'rhota 12:!5-2 7:30-3 1~ :45-~ 12 :·15-3 7:30-3 1:!:~5-1 Delta 4-30· 5-8 5-7 5-0 5-1 5-11 Phi 12 :i;J-:..! 7:30-3 j: 30-2 7:30-3 7; 30-2 7 ;~0-1 Alpha ·1-23 5-7 5-13 5-14 5-6 5-1 n~Jta Pili ~~ :·15-1 7:30-3 1~:45-2 1~: 15-~ 12:45-1 7 :30-1 Diamond Xo. 1-AIE'xrrntler I•'ield Diamond Xo, 2-Counril Fi€'1<1, South End lliamon<l Xo. 3-Cuuneil I<'ielrl, Xorth End Iiey on how to read st•hPtlule: Sigma Pill l'S• Pill Slgnat Delta Oil t!iamond one. Students Participate In Roundtable Meetings (Continued from Page ll time. The Union-Queens College in- tercollegiate seminar in govern- ment will close with a luncheon at which Maurice P. Davidson, mem- ber of the New York State Power Authority will speak on \Public Policy and Hydro-Electric Power.' In addition to those reading pa- pers and serving as leaders in the ensuing discussions, the following Union students will take part in them: Jacob Rabinowitz, '40, Ed- gar A. Sandman, '40, and Warren C. Kimmey, '41. Ten students majoring in physics accompanied by five members of the physics staff, are taking part in a joint seminar with Williams College. Two students of each col- lege will read papers, to start the discussion in which all will par- ticipate. Bacon Named to Office In Chemical Society Dr. Egbert K Bacon, Assistant Professor of Chemistiy was re- elected Vice-President of the EaEt- ern New York section of the Amer- ican Chemical Society at the April meeting held in the Butterfield Memorial Laboratory Tuesday eve- ning. Dr, H, N. Feigenbaum, Pro- fessor of Chemistry at R. P. I., and ---------------------------- FREIHOFERS BREAD - CAKE ROLLS Daily Delivery Direct to Your Home TEL. 6·4224 Phi Sigma Gamma Chi Psi Delta Upsiion 5-8 4-29 4-22 12:45-1 7:30-1 12:45-3 5-13 5-8 4-30 7:30-2 7:30-2 12:45-3 5-3 5-7 5-13 12:45-1 7:30-1 12:45-1 5-1 5-6 5-14 12:45-2 12:45-2 12:45-1 5-14 5-1 5-7 7:30-2 12:4:5-1 12:45-3 •Hl4 4-:l3 5-l 12:45-3 12:45-2 7:30-3 4-!22 4-29 RPilll 1 ~ :4n-1 7: ~0-2 4-<J'} 4-25 12:45-1 'l'lle 12:45-2 ·1-29 ·1-25 7:30-2 12:45-2 Coneorlly Phi AlJlha Delta Delta Dol.ta 'I'll eta Phf Phi 5-8 4-30 4-23 1~:45-2 12 :45-2 12:34-1 5-13 5-8 5-7 7:30-3 7:30-3 7;30-3 5-3 5-7 5-13 1~ :-15-::! 7:30-2 12:45-2 5-1 5-G 5-14 12:45-3 7:30-3 12:45-2 5-14 5-1 5-G j: 30-3 7:30-2 12:45-1 ·1-~5 5-14 5-1 12:45-1 7:30-1 7:30-1 4·22 4-29 Atlllotlc 12 :·15-2 7:30-3 4-•>•) 4-25 12;15-2 News 12:45-3 ·1-29 4-:.!5 7:30-3 12 :·15-3 Now April 18 at 12:45 p, :11. on Dr. F. T. Norton of the General Electric Research Laboratory were again chosen as President and See- r etary-treasurer respectively. Restaurant • Tap Room Delicatessen GOLD'S ALWAYS POPULAR R 7 for building health in mind and body Amsterdam Dairy MILK 2 glasses before retiring Repeat Daily Phone 6-2351 for Daily Delivery Allegro JUolto Andante Allegro Vivo Allegro quasi presto. o---- Block \lJ\ Day. 1;30 p. m.-Giee Club Rehearsal in Hanna Hall. In the third group ten out of the thirteen questions were concerned with the members favorite car, magazine, newspaper, cigarette, pipe tobacco, movie actor and act- ress, popular song, band, and radio program. Two of the remaining three questions were about presi- dential choice. Henry C. Meadow, '40, and Ever- ett M. Hafner, '40, will deliver re- ports on \Mineral Fluorescene\ and \The Life and Work of Oliver~==============~~==============~ Heaviside.\ Other Union students taking part in the discussion are . David S. Preston, '40, R. Gordon Gould, '41, Charles C. McMullen, '41, Francis H. Coffin, '42, Selden A, Knudson, '42, Edward Koprow- ski, '42, Leonard Levine, '42, and Sanford P. Thompson, '42. In The M a i I To the Editor: While the profits of pt·ophesy are being reckoned, as was dune in the April 16th issue of The Con- cordiensis, and the balance is be- ing strucl< on the asBet side, it might be sugge>ted that one allegE'd gold nugget is only a chestnut. Where is the evidence that \mak- ing the world safe for democracy\ was not one factor in the first World War, even though the re- sults were heavily those of frustia- tion. Where is the evidence that the so-called \neutrals und'er pres- sure, do not consider the present struggle for power one in which \self-government\ has greater hope in an Allied victory? What is the logic by which one concludes that if one does not get what one strives for, one has never striven and should never strive-even though a situation exists in which conflict- ing things are being ~trivPn for? Douglas \A'. Campbell. C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optometrist Eyes Examined, Glrrss<'s l•'ttted 115 B'way Tl'lephmw 6-37~ i Three Dnot·s frum St:Jtr St ~~~~ Products for Better Quality Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4~3121 GENERAL ICE CREAM CORPORATION j 1:30 p. m.-Record Concert in :\Iemorial ChapeL 2:00 p. m. Varsity Baseball. Union vs. Massachusetts State at .Massachusett>. 7:00 p. m.· Sigma Xi Dinner and Initiation in Hale House. Speaker, Dr. George Baitsell of Yale University. 7:30 p, m.- Christian Association :\1eeting at home of Professor ' Taylor. JAMES RESTAURANT WE CATER TO UNION STUDENTS AND THEIR GUESTS I .42 a STATE ST. II I! Free Delivery IIi Pleasant Valley Phone 4-7445 'II I I I li Food Market \Quality - Service Satisfaction\ OUR MOT TO 598 Broadway For Better Values ·~========~'i~l ==~~====~ The fourth section contained questions about, \the hardest teacher, and course,\ \the easiest teacher· and course,\ and querries concerning the biggest snap course, favorite teacher, and the most en- joyable of t.he four years during which the class of 1940 had been enrolled. Freeman 1 s High Quality WALLPAPER PAINT GLASS For Past 142 Years Freeman & Son, Incorporated Phone 4-9155 12-20 Erie Blvd. Williams undergraduates will en- tertain their guests with a demon- stration of procedures \of giving training in the scientific method in elementary 1 a b or at or y experi- ments.\ Dr. Peter I. Wold, head of the Physics Department, Profesoor Vladimir Rojansky, Professor Ever- ett W. Thatcher, Dr. Charles Strain, and Mr. Robert A. Pelton accompanied the delegation. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality li'o6d-Always Open One step ·from State St. PINE GROVE DAIRY, Inc. 61 ERIE BLVD. PHONE 4-7741 Watch and Jewelry Repai:-ing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. Gazette Press Printers It's something Coca-Cola gives that millions have liked for more than fifty years,- a happy after-sense of com- plete refreshment that adds to your enjoyment of ice-cold Coca-Cola. No wonder people the world over say: get a Coca-Cola, and get the feel of refreshment. T H E PAUSE THAT Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Co. by SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY F T = Vol. Wi At I At v lr t- ThE progr Chap' PI'Of€ cr of certif medi1 the 1 cises. in U gram Th4 divisi wrest who -Vel Louis Frett tral; and \Vres pha; Bob~ Alph: Psi; John Otl intra ball neut1 KapJ Harv and Delu FO' the l also al C1 Upsil ball, Bowl the shoe: Psi in rE Swin Neut ball ( Ca bask· nis, recei for Prof• tains sporl futUI Th P de last ther4 fl'Olll ture4 cne pres• by ' toke: certi the • Tl will of t enta mus byte N. ~ rect' orga to t1 Tl the Higl vari give son, tom omi· AI mee hav• '39, mee COn4 in I L: a re Con Bar of t the or at cole net sha:

ry UN/ON • • Prom Prices Increase This Saturday tfltSlS Glee Club Con dudes Season's Tours Z.-511 PRICE FIVE CENTS UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, APRIL 23, 1940 =W===i=tt=n=e=r =M=a=k=e=s ~~~G.:-o-ve~r_n_m_e~n~t=S-tu~d=· ~,~;~ts----=M~· -\--'ee~-t~D~·-~en~n;tt; - ~-~Ho~~~~r~-;ellow Vol. LXIII., No. 49 Athletic Awards Are Impressed by Honorary Fellow By GRANGER TRIPP At 'Block U Dayf Varsity Team Members. Intramural Champions Honored This Morning Honorar·y Fellows are all too often nothing m0re than names In the college catalog as far as the aveiage member· of the student body is concerned. When, therefore, the opportunity to become better acquainted with one of the recipi- .en ts or these honorary offices pre- sents itself, it would seem that as The second annual \Block U Day\. much knowledge as possible about program took place in Memorial the gentleman in question should Chapel at 10:00 this morning wilen. be acquired. Professor J. Harold Wittner, direct- AH this is merely by way of pre- cr of athletics, awarded \Block U\ · facing a series of impr·essions of certificates to students through the Tyler Dennett, Ph.D., L.H.D., medium of their captains during Litt.D., L.L.D., Honorary Fellow in the regular Daily Assembly exe1·- Government, whose presence on the cises. Individual and team winners campuE this week has fostered a se- in Union's intramural sports pro- ries of talks, r<>und-table discus- gram also received awards. ~ions and conferences on a wide va- The winners in the various weight. riety of political questions. divisions of the annual intramural Probably Dr. Dennett wa$ best wrestling and boxing tournaments viewed as the discussion leader at who received plaques were: Boxing the Philomathean Society's meeting -Verner Sharp, Phi Sigma Kappa; held last night with about a dozen Louis Semenoff, neutral; Patsy faculty members and students in Fretto, neutral; Sol Mauriello, neu- attendance. tral; Edward Green, Delta Upsilon; When PreEident Roger Marshall, and James Bothwell, Psi Upsilon. '41, announced that the subject for Virestling-Talbot Mead, Kappa AI- the evening's discussion would be pha; Aaron Thai, Phi Sigma Delta; the Pittman resolution giving the Bob Shepard, neutral; Tom Ralston, President power to declare an Alpha Delta Phi; Sherry Wait, Chi arms embargo against Japan, Dr. Psi; Arthur Davis, Psi Upsilon, and Dennett assumed a principal role and set the scene for the evening's talk. \I'll take the part of Senator Pittman, recommending this biU in its favorable aspects to you as membe1•s of the Senate Foreign Re- lations Committee,\ he said. \You men, as senators, one-third of whom wiJ.l come up for re-election in November, will want to decide whether or not to report this bill favorably to the Senate.\ As Dr. Dennett went on to elabo- rate one side of the debate on this question, his concentration on the problem at hand offered one who was not quite so engrossed as most of his listeners a good opportunity to observe what manner of man an Honorary Fellow might be. Speaking with a deliberation which gave the impression that he was weighing his words carefully, Dr. Dennett nevertheless gave his opinions with complete frankness. When the discussion had reached its official ter·mination, Dr. Dennett remarked with a smile, \This is the seventh time I have impersonated Senator Pittman in discussions lik(' thiE. Nowhere else has he found such stiff opposition to his amend- ment among the members of his committee.\ John Krull, Beta Theta Pi. ---------·-- ·------- Other Awards Made Other awards made to individual intramural winners were: Basket- ball foul shooting, Tony Barbieri, neutral. Basketball \21\, Gil Kopf, Kappa Sigma, first place; Arnie Harwood, Psi Upsilon, second place, and Hudson Tanner, Phi Gamma Delta, third place. Four championships were won by the Delta Upsilon fraternity which also gained the 1938-1939 Intramur- al Championship recognition. Delta Upsilon gained awards for Soft- ball, Spring and Fall Track, and Bowling. Phi Gamma Delta won the team titles in Tennis, Horse- shoes, and Touch Football, while Psi Upsilon was given an award in recognition for its winning the Swimming championship, and the Neutrals for winning the basket- ball championship. Captains Given Certificates Captains of the football, baseball, basketball, hockey, golf, track, ten- nis, lacrosse, and swimming teams· received the \Block U\ certificates for their respective groups from Professor Wittner. Both the cap- tains and the managers of these sports were given life passes to all future Union athletic contests. This morning's program mar·ked P departure from the procedure of last year's \Block U'' Day in that there was no outstanding figure from the sports world as the fea- tured assembly speaker. As only one chapel meeting was devoted to presentation of the various awards by the administration this year, token presentation of the award certificates had to be made only to the captains of the various sports. Graduate Council Honors Waldron Alumni Allocate Funds For Inter-Class Trophy, New Band Uniforms The Union College Graduate Council, celebrating the thirtieth anniversary of its founding during its spring meeting last Saturday morning, presented Dr. Charles N. Waldron with Carl Sandburg's four- volume biography of Abraham Lin- coln, a dressing gown, and a sweater \in appreciation of his thirty years as secretary of the Councn.\ Just previous to the mee·ting of the Coun- c:il, in Daily Assembly, Dr. Waldron had presented a brief pictme of the organization to the student body. The Council also approved an expenditure of f.ifty dollars for the purchase of a trophy to be awarded to the winners of this year's interclass athletic competi- Uon and allocated one hundred dollars for the purchase of new uniforms for the college band. At the same time, ProfesSOI' D. Rich- ard Weeks, edito1· of the \Alumni Monthly\ announced to the group that Raymond C. Donnan, '03, has been appointed assistant editor of the publication. Professor Weeks told the Council that Mr. Donnan would assume his position .immedi- ately. Dr. Fox Speaks Love, Wikoff, and Prom Too Much for Uncle San Even the United States Post- office is helpless before the com- bination of Love, Glenn Miller and Prom. The three elements, personified by Fred Wikoff, '43, wreaked havoc recently with the vaunted efficiency of Mr. Far- ley's department. Back from Spring Recess with a Prom date, Wykoff was greet- ed last week with a missive in- forming him that his girl had something else to do that week- end. A torrid letter steamed from the pen of the freshman. He raced to the postoffice to make sure that it would sizzle in her grasp the next morning. Ten minutes later·, the irate freshman received a telegram from the young lady. She would be present for Prom week-end. Once more Wikoff sped to the postoffice and, after a full hour of concentrated argument, ex- tracted from the grasp of Uncle Sam his lethal epistle, which had already been postmarked. Scholarship List Issued By Dean Senior Class First; Juniors Rank Lowest In Quarterly Report ----o---- Giee Club in Plattsburg On Last Trip of Season During the com·se of the meeting, The Dean's List for the third President Dixon Ryan Fox ad- marking period ~hows a total of dressed the group on the problems 238 stud~nts mentioned for hi~h of g1 owth which confront a college. scholarshrp, and represents an m- He said that while Union would 1 crease of fifteen men from the sec- try to assure a well-varied life, it ond marking . period when ~23 would emphasize its chief function students \':ere mc.luded on the hst. of training young men in an at- . The semors, with ~6 men men- mosphere of the libeial arts. Dr. ttoned, head the other classes, and Fox defended the maintenance of are followed by the sophomores engineering curricula, although he with. 59,, the r:eshmen with 54, and said that he was in favor of limit- the JUntors wrth 49. The Union College Glee Club will conclude its final concert tom' of the 1940 season with the pres- entation of a prog!'am of choir music tonight at the First Pres- byterian Church in Plattsburgh, N. Y. Dr. Elmer A. Tldmarsh, Di- rector of Music, will play several organ selections as a supplemcn t to the recital. This afternoon at 2:45 o'cloLk, the Club appeared at the Plattsburg High School where it presentE-d the varied musical program it has given on most of its trips this sea- son, but with the skit, which cus- tomarily concludes the program, omitted. Arrangements for an Alumni meeting in honor of the Glee Club have been made by Guy Barton, '39, and Payson Hatch, '39. The meeting will be held, following the concert tonight, at the Ellen Club in Plattsburg. Last Sunday the Glee Club gave a recital by candlelight in the First Congregational Church at Great Barrington, Mass. Later, members of the Club were given a dinner in the church chapel which was dec- orated for the occasion in Union colors; the tables, replete with gar- net candles, were arranged in the shape of a \U.\ ing such curricula to one quarter of CLASS OF 1940 the stud-ent body. During the portion of the meeting devoted to elections, the Council re-named J. D. Allen, G. M. Clowe, and F. A. Wyatt as member sc at- large. At the same time Leroy J. Weed, '01, chairman of the ,Council, announced to the alumni that they \need not fear\ the suspension of baseball fo1· next spring\ as Pro- fessor J. Harold W.ittner, director of athletics, has arranged a \modi- fied schedule\. Four of the five members of the original Graduate Council, as or- ganized in 1910, were present at Saturday's meeting. They were Louis Oppenheim, '75, of· Schenec- tady; Reverend W. N. P. Daley, '84, of Schenectady; Frederick B. Rich- ards, '88, of Glens Falls; and Joseph n. Brown, Jr., '02, of .Albany. Wag- ner Van Vlack of the class of 1900, who resides in New York City, was unab!e to be pt•esent, Bachelor of Arts Joseph J. Annese, James P. Bar- ford, 01·rin W. Bam·man, Ernest W. Bodenstab, C. Foster Brown, Jr., Leonard R. Bull, William A. Busino, Louis Carnevale, *Quentin P. Cole, Gordon E. Conrad, * Alexander H. Cornell, Floyd E. Deckro, Robert R. Eisner, Sheldon J. Evans, Chris- topher M. Fahy, Merlin S. Fay, Robert J. Feldman, Edwin A. Fitz, Jr., Franklin P. Frederick, Robert H. Furman, • Stanley B. Gertz, • 'Z. Peter Grabicki, Clare W. Graves, Richard S. Harrison. David G. Hayner, *Paul C. Hay- ner, Wilbert A. Heinz, William L. Johnson, Robert F. Kilmer, Max- well R. Kleeman, *Marvin P. Laza- rus, Benjamin J. Lord, Jr., W. Neil B. Loudon, Paul D. Mahoney, J. Richard Mills, Ralph D. Morgan, Jr., William E. Morris, J. Albert Mould, John J. O'Brien, Nathan (Continued on Page 2) DR. TYLER DENNETT Dennett Concludes Visit To Campus Former Williams Head Speaks to Government Classes During Stay Dr Tyler Dennett, Un·ion honor- ary fellow and former president of Williams College concluded the planned itinerary for his two-day stay on the campus today with a lunchtlon with members of the faculty of the division of social studies. This morning he made the third class lecture of his stay dur- ing the 11:20 class period of Dr. Douglas W. Campbell's class in \American Constitutional Develop- ments\ Dr. Dennett's first appearance on the campus was yesterday morning when he spoke before the combined sections of the class in \Introduc- tion to Governments of t·he World,\ conducted by Dr. Campbell and Dr. Vernon A. O'Rourke. Dr. Dennett traced the course of Japan's transi- tion from a supreme to a constitu- tional monarchy, explaining that, \the ordinance-making· power of the Japanese emperor is extremely broad and if the United States is to become internationally involved, it must strengthen the ordinance- making power of the president c~d must develop the foresight of Japan.\ Stating that the Japanese have no hill of rights, Dr. Dennett went on to explain that the common people have no demand for such a guaran- tee. \The military and naval authorities run the cabinet when there is a question of national de- fense before the nation, and na- tional defense is defined very broadly,\ Dr. Dennett said. Yesterday afternoon Dr. Dennett conferred with students who are interested in the foreign service. Last night he took part in a dis- cussion sponsored by the Philoma- thean Society, in which the advis- ability of passing the Pittman resolution to give the president dis- cretionary power over an arms em- bargo on Japan was considered. Dr. Dennett pointed out arguments ad- '.anced by those who favor the bill but said that he considered it a \step towards war.\ ---0>----- Higher Prom Ticket Price Takes Effect on April 27 AngelL Anderson and Wilkin Elected Y.o Class Presidencies This M,orning StudentCouncil Approves Uniform Key Designi Hastings, Furlong Ch<?sen for Tax Committee The Student Council, meeting last night with the class of 1940 represented for the last time, offi- cia:lly accepted a design for uni- form keys for all campus activities. The final vote was not polled until a discussion of a half hour had taken place. Nominations for uext year's Council representatives were also made by the present boards. President Louis Carr indicated th·1t the vote to determine the member;; of the new Student Council woulrl be taken after Friday daily assem- bly, April 26. Carr also announced last night t:hat Joseph F. Furlong, Jr., '42, and W. Bradford Hastings, '41. has been appointed junior member and seonior member-at-large, respective- ly, of the Student Tax Committee. Carr indicated that Furlong will become secretary of the body whvse chairmanship is to be assumed by Harry L. Crosby, '41. 1\Iust Consider Budget The first problem of the new Tax Committee will be the consideration of a budget for next year, Carr in- dicated. The new officers will as- sume office at once, and the bc·dy will meet shortly afterward for the consideration of this problem of the budget fo1· 1940-41. Assisting Crosby, Furlong, and Hastings will be the new Student Council president, to be named at the \Moving Up Day\ exercises next month. Dr. William W. Bennett, Coordinator of Student Activities, and Professor Anthony DeH. Hoadley, Comptroller, are the official faculty members of the Committee. ----01---- March To Deliver Prize Day Speech Fox, Garis to Make Award Presentations In Chapel Tomorrow Dr. John L. March, chairman of the division of Psychology, will de- liver the principal address at the annual Prize Day exercises to- morrow at 10 o'clock in the Me- morial Chapel. The various prizes wm be distributed by President Dixon Ryan Fox and Dean Charles F'. Garis. Among the prizes given out, the Bailey Cup, won laot year by David L. Yunich, the Daggett Prize, awarded at the 1939 Prize Day to William Thomas, and the Sternfeld Philosophical Prize given last year to Herbert 0. Fox. The Thomson Essay award will be presented for the first time this year, while for the second time, the Donald Coulter Prize in De- bating and the Elias Peissner Award will be given. The latter is of- fered by the Sigma Phi fraternity to the senio1· most proficient in German studies. Other prizes to be awarded will include the Allen Es- say Prizes, the Allison Prizes, the Archibald High Scholarship, and the Leonard Chester Jones Memorial Prize in French. Arts Prizes Offered The Carl Schurz Prize in German will be awarded to a student in an advanced German course on the basis on a formal written essay. The Freling H. Smith Prize in His- tory, the two Hichmond Prizes in Fine Ar·ts and Music Appreciation and the James Henry Turnbull Cecil E. kngell, of Ilion, New York was elected president of the senior class this morning immed- iately following the Daily Assembly Block \U\ day presentations. Angell, who is a Neutral, is a mem- ber of the Student Council and the band. \Teed\ is majoring in Elec- trical Engineering. The class 0f 1942 elected George H. Anderson to be president of next year's junior class and William F. Wilkin was chosen president of the class of 1943 at the same time ,by the freshman class. Anderson, who is also a Neutral, comes from Springfield, Massachusetts. This year he served as president of the sophomore class, is a member of the Student Council and is an Elec- trical Engineering major. Wilkin, a member of Sigma Phi Fraternity, was the chairman of the sec<>nd All-Freshman dance and is taking a Pre-Medical course. Turchick Viee-Presid,ent The juniors also elected Alexan- cler Turchick, of Watervliet, Vice- President of next year's senior class, Robert A. Molloy, of Brook- lyn, as Secretary, and Adam F. Ciesinski, of Schenectady, Treas- urer. Turchick, a member of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity, played varsity basketball and is a member of the varsity baseball team. He is a Student Council representative and a member of the Garnet Key Society. Molloy played varsity foot- baH, is the manager-elect of the swimming team and affiliated with Delta Phi. Ciesinski is a Neutral and played football in his sopho- more and freshman years. Sophomores Elect Baker Robert K. Baker, of Albany, was elected Vice-President of next year's junior class at thi.lS morn- ing's election and Edward C .. Eustice, of Flushing, and A. Dren- nan Kay, of Claremont, New Hamp- shire were chosen Secretary and Treasurer respectively. Baker, be- sides having served as president of his class in his freshman year, is a member of the Student Council, played varsity football and was a member of the varsity hockey team. He is a member of the Chi Psi Fraternity. Enstice is a member of Psi Upsilon and was also a mem- ber of the varsity football team. Kay is a member of \The Idol,\ of the Student Council and of the var- sity golf team. He is a Neutral. The freshman class elected Rob- ert T. E. Horton, of Seneca F'a.lls, to be Vice-President of next year's sophomore class. Kenneth B. Sharpe, of Pasadena, California, was chosen Secretary and Henry Wysocki, of Meriden, Connecticut, was named Treasw·er at the same elections. ----0•---- Dr. Healey Outlines Behavior Principles Dr. WH!iam Healey, director of the .Judge Baker Foundation Child Guidance Center of Boston, Massa- chusetts, told approximately 200 people attending the tenth annual meeting of the Schenectady Family Welfare Bureau in Old Chapel last night that \the purposive studies of human behavior trends is essen- tially a necessary goal for the pre- Sl'I\V'ation of democrcay.\ At the beginning of his address, the speaker outlined the three pri- mary principles of human behavior: Prices for tickets to the 1940 Prize in Physics will also be award- Junior Prom will rise from six to ed. \First that the human being is a complex organism functioning in terms of himself and the milieu in which he lives; second, that be- havior is a social phenomena· and third, that we psychiatrists' and social welfare workers must con- sider what is best. for human beings.\ seven dollars on Saturday, April 27, FUI ther awards will be the War- it was announced yesterday by ner Prize for excellence in Latin; Kenneth MacKenzie, chairman of the Rich prize, awarded to. that the Prom committee. In a state- student who has collected the best ment on the decision to push the library of worth while books during date of the rise .in price fi'Om May his undergraduate career; the nob- 1st to April 27, MacKenzie indicated ert G. O'Neals Prize in Latin and that but a small number of tickets the Ingham Prize, presented to that have thus far been sold and that it senior who has submitted the best is absolutely essential that many essay on a specified subject. The rrJOI'e than this number be sold as Kruesi Prize in Self-Improvement, soon as possible. the Horowitz Prize, awarded to the ''We have made every attempt to hig,hest ranking student in the arrange for Union the best Prom courses offered in Building Con- in its histo1y,\ MacKenzie said. ~truction, the Fuller Prize in Chem- \but a necessary factor In its sue- i:;;try, and the various Pullman cess is a good early ticket sale.\ • Prizes will be awarded at this time. Deploring the burden of crime that rests upon the American people, Dr. Healey pointed out that the American Law Institute \a group which has become inter~sted in the reasons why our law is a failure,\ has felt that \we must concentrate on the adolescent stage of young delinquents through youth correction administrations to sotudy t>ach case of major violations of social codes,\

Pag·e Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 23, Hl-10 ffinnrur II t:==;;l =A F=F A I=R s ~Ill CalE'ndar 'l'onight 7:00 ;l.m. Sigma Xi Initiation and Dinner. Hale House. :Speaker, Dr. George Baitsell of Yale University. FACULTY ;vft:ri'rt~~-l!7t- ~\:-o:--u~·mted t 'nllt~g·ialt: !\'It• ;~·ut.l dl:,tt.YL\Ut( \~C:_.t. !t!..! la tl' I •ige:--t. _ .'l'[tc uLfil·i~l'lilt·\~ .... ~;l~;T(.f\t~tw.it·u·i:- uf t·Iai-;-;i~-l~;;fi~:~t· l'lallli:-:l11~d 'I'u· !-· daY a!ld Frida\':-. tltltiUg-htiiH th.., t·tdlt·gL' ~··HI _ _ _ l-:ditorhtl Hout~u .. , :-;1IIinta!1 Hall. l'nittll t:ulk~t\- -;-~-Zi.illP.ll; .. 'T't~:,.,,httttl ~t·t-.:r~~: .. erady. !-ul:t:. ---------- ______ .. __ _ p\itJiieatioil(:,-{tf(.l.~-~--i,il,·· naz~·-tl~t>:-- ... , ;;~1 ~Halt· :-:;L ;-;dtt'tH·t·.t~L'I~. ~ Y. 'L\:h·ph.Jilt· 1-·tlll _______ .. -~~~tltl:'!ed .lt tlk ~ ·ht\tll'l't.ulr l't;~t-·lflit·t· ;::-- :O:t•t'ttHd Cia ... :-- .Jlail .\~~~~­ ~u{J~t·tlplloll ptht· Fi~t~ a t\up~:; ;!i::uu a .)\t-\'<11'. ,-!f-11\t~l~·d :•n)\\lu·J· l11 lht· l'mkd ~!:tlt·S Senior Board ,Jamt>s E. Twining, Jr ............................... E::ditot·-in-Chief c'hi I'~: Lc•dge- ~-D~:!; Robert K Eisner ............................... l::Su8iness l.'ilana.g€1' K<tppa ~u !luu:-.~· --I\I.:J:Il Uobt>rt :-1. SchulbE'rg .............................. Associate Editm· l'hi ~~~111.1 I lt>l·ta llou~l~-- tJ·Ui·ti:, I'aul \\'. Bt>cket· ................................... Associate E:ditor ~ti ..:'\. RuiJ!II~I'll ~t. -ti-7~•77 ·,John D. Phillips ..................................... Sports Editor P~• l\p:--iloll lluu:-t• - -l-\7lll ;John I'. Lewis. . .............................. Editot··at-Large ,Ja(•k Habinowitz ............................. Cix·culation Manager ·l·'hi ~iguHt 1 lt.•Ha 1-:luu:-.~- IJ-u-;u;,_~- __ . Re:PRESENTBD FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING ey National Advertising Service, Inc. Co/lege Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N.Y. CtiiCAGO o BOSTON o LOS AHGELES ' SAN FRAHCISCO ,Junior Board Junutlmn Pearson Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman _____ Allen Orton __ _ Sa·mue!__Pot tnoy __ -· ____ _ So1'homore Board n.obert Dak~. Robert Bishop, Robert Nemeroff, Granger Tripp, Thoma~ O'Connor, Richard Watanabe, Robert Hayner, Arthur Cohen. Charles Chase, Everett McCarty, Norman Fox. Robert Allan, Photographic Editor -- ____ ::.:..::.:::~~_.=_ _ __:_ __ ~;:__ ___ _ Husiness Staff David Ro~enblum George Lieber·man Harold Me~senget· Ju,;tin Perlstein, Stanley Greenstein, Donald Haigh. Laskar Schwartz. !\Iyx:on_ :vm~:.:_____ --- - :-.Ai;,rnand.- Fe:igenbaum Issut' l':ditor ............................... - Allen 01ton Assistants Granger Tripp Friday, Ap1 il 19, 1940 Rt.bet t Hayne••· ==========~~=====================~====~===== IS IT WORTH WHILE? The :\liddle Atlantic Regional conference of the N'ational Student Fedemtion of America was held last week-e11d at Colg-ate t.:niver::;ity. The fact that la::;t year's conference was held on L'nion's campus, sponsored 'by the Student Council, makes it appropriate that mention ue made oft his year's pro- ceeding-s. Except for thi':s fact we could not truthfully find sufficient reason to be over-enthusi~1stic about the actions of the N.S.F.A. Sti·angely, although the problems discussed at the regional meeting: \Vere classified unde1• headings bmad enoug-h in ::;cope to make them seem pertinent to all cmnpuses, the actual discus::;iom; were centered about questiom hardly pet·- taining to Union problems. We do not mean to c!'iticize the N.S.F.A. The conference wa::; certainly >veil planned and well executed, as, we undel'- stand, it ha~ always been in the past. However, with Union'~ intere~ts 111 mind, we found that little cunstru.ctive g-ood could be derived from this year's regional meeting. The in- dividun.l commission~. such a~. \How to give vitality to stu- dent g-overnment\; \Relation of student council to campus -the function of the campus press\; \Cm·riculum in a mod- ern world\ and other.s, appeared, at fit·st glance, to be of di- rect interest to Cnion delegates. The discussions which fol- lowed, however. proved to be misleading. Not only were the problems discu~sed concems of one or t\vo individual dele- gates. but these problems, oddly enough, were not ones with which we at Cnion are faced. We do not intend to influence anyone to believe that this irrelevancy was a fault on which to condemn the conference as such. We offer this as a fact and question the usefulnesg of' such a confei'ence for Union students.. The plenary ses:'\ions, as well as the commissions, were characterized by a lack of definite decisions and proposed action. All sugges- tions seemed to lead to blind alleys and it became increasingly difficult as time went on for the college representatives to compromise and agree on definite channels of action. Perhaps in future N.S.F.A. conferences, as perhaps has been the case in past conferences, the benefits to be derived b;.· Union delegates will be greater. We have attended the con- ference for 1940 and made our report-a report which we could not truthfully nmke to favorably impress those inteJ'- ested. OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES High school journalists of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, the staff of the \Libertas are scheduled to publish the \Brown and White\ of J,EIDGH UNIVERHITY. Tht> magazine staff will tal>:t> ovE'r the edi- torial dutit-s of the unh·<'rsity Jltlblication aftPr h<'ing con<iucte<l on a tour of thP I.I':HIGH eampus by thP rPgular reportet•s. The UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA recently ended, its fourth annual Fraternity Week which now replaces the ha.zhlg and initia- tion ceremonies of Hell Week. Lectures by outstanding fraternity men pi'ominent in business, as well as discussions on problems of intl.\re>st to fratl.\a•nitiPs are on the F1·aternity Week progr11n1, fhst maugmated m 1937 .. Since that time 75 colleges and· tmiversitfes in all sections of the country have adopted the plan. NSFA Notes '•Loud dirges for Latinily Col'!'upt the ;:;outhern air; and a mummified divinHy Rehaunts the Nordic Jail·.\ These lines may be recognized .b~· ' ~ome as a pot tion of a poem writ- i ten by a Uni0n C0lleg0 student for I the \!dol\ in 1936. It is hardly nee-~ essary to say that they refer to two prominent leaders of Em ope who formed the famous but crumbling I Rome-Berlin axis. The lines are as . timely now as they were in 1936. . 1 Since the advent of the Nazis seven years ago, practicaHy all the people of thP world have watched: with much uneasiness the steady growth of German influence in. Eu- rope and throughout the world. In the most embart·assing situation, however, is Signor Mussolini, often I called the \junior partner\ or \puppet\ of the Rome-Berlin axis,,. who must grit hi~ teetli and yet force a smile at the success of his , staunch and eternal friend. · 7:30 p.m.-- Christian A>sociation Bible Study Group. Home of Professor Taylor. 7:30 p.m.- Chess Club. Civll En- gineering Building . '!'OnlOl'rOW -10:00 a.m.-- Ptize Day. Memorial Chapel. Speaket·, Dr. John L. March. l :30 p.m.- Glee Club Rehearsal. . Hanna Hall. 3:30 p. m.-Glee Club Rehearsal 1 entil•e). Hanna HalL S:CO p. m. -Biology Colloquh:rm. Room 205. Biology BuHding Speal,er, George T. Scott, '38 \The Unicellular Organism as a Subject for Physiolegical Inve~tigation.\ Thursday 1J:CO a.m. --Daily Assembly. Me- modal Chapel. Spealier, Rich- a·rd L. Ba·lch, '41. 1:30 p.m.---Glee Club Rehearsal. Hanna Hall. i:45 p.m.-- Americ:an Welding Society <Schenectady Section). Old Chapel. 10:00 a.m. l.hapel. marsh. Friday Recital. Mrmorial Dr. ·Elmer A. Tid- 1:30 p.m.-- Glee Club Rehearsal. Hanna Hall. .By THEOIDORE It. MciLWAINE No doubt most of you are familiar with the origin of our college on the hill bt:It perhaps a few details ~n the construction of our build- !ltg<i will be of in te1 est to you. The college, previous to 1814, wa· located on the site of tB.e Union Blreet School at Unien and College. St1 eet~. On July :0:9, HI06, the trus- tee;:; took the tit•<Ot action which was '.J lead to the build·ing of the \pal aces, as one professor called them,, ]:}y appointing a committee and .as the resolutio,,l states it: \to select and obtain as a donation if possihle a large and airy and convenient site tor a new c0llege edifice and appartenances somewhet·e on the high lands bot det ing on the sec• ond ward of the City of Sc:henec- tady.\ Although the trmtees had hoped to obtain the land \by donation,' their hopes wei\e in vain for the ti easurers' ledger indicates that by June ·r. 1815, he had paid out for the college site a matter of $9,070.55. This college site appar- ently was a tract of land extend- ing from Nott Stleet south, con- skiing of about 250 acres which t0- day was diminished to its present area of 100 acres assefsed at $1,- 075,930. Although it is commonly known that the 01 iginal campus buildings wPre designed and laid out by Jos- Last week was one of those rare I periods when II Duce was able to 1 batter his way into the newspapers I' again. He called out five new 2lao;ses of re,et·vists and thus I brought his at my to almost its I maximum strength. It is significant to note that no reservists were 1 called out even during the Munich , crish;, Simultaneously, a high· 1 ranking Fa~cist official warned the . 1 Italian people that they might awake some morning to lind Italy on the ma-rch. It appeared fot· a 1 timt' as though Italy and Germany : would attempt to divert the atten- • tinn of the Allie~ by threatening or 1 actually c:anying on military ac- I lion at two different points. They had done this before. To date the plan ha:; given Germany the Rhine- land, A u s t 1· i a . Czechoslovakia, 1 11e~uel, and half of Poland while : ::!:tm p m.-A5sociation of Ameri- can Colleges. ConferE>ncP. Old C..hapel. 4:30 p.m.-- Varsity baseball. Union vs. Rochester at Sche- nectady. [;: 00 p m. --Association of Am<Jri- can College;;. Tea. Hale House. . eph Jacques Ramee, recently it' has been learned that the ground was bt oken and construction be- gun according- to some p1·eviuus plan. Italy has little Albania and a few .nillion spindle-legged Ethiopians. Jt is nut difficult to gues:; who thought up this particular stt·ategy. G :~5 p.m. --Association of Ameri- ca.! Colleges. Dinner. Hale House. Scholarship list Issued By Dean \\'e JE.at n now that Reynaud has !Continued from Page 1) expre:;sed his country's willingne,s Paul, Thomas H. Ralston, T. Jay to ~onsider Italy's colonia.! demand~. Rifenbary, Joseph A. Russum. 11 Duce',; pt·incipal gnevance IS . Edgar A. Sandman, William H. thus t emoved at least temporarily. i Schwab, *Harry G. Silleck Jr., We also leam that the Fascist press Isadore M. Sorkin, William C. Tay- has modified its attitude toward the lor, William S. Tush, Matthew S. Allie>. This may indicate eithet· that Tybmowslti, Rocco H. Urbano, II Duce wants friendlier relations Jameo H. Watson. William H. with Fl'ance and England or that Wink. Edwa1·d H. WittE'meir. the press is beginning to 1 efiect B::-l in Civil I!,\ngineering the sentiment of the Italian peo- Wallace F. Baker, Robert R. pie. ; G:u nett, Lewis W. HallenbPck, If Italy should now suddenly turn ! Ansell E. Sweet. against Gel'many through the press I EH in Electrical Engineering it would naturall>· be regarded as Charles E. Brockner, Donald P. an abandonment of neutrality. 'I j Campbell, Charles H. Guiles, John Duce 1 ealizes, however, that in the A. Kilcoin Jr., William B. Lynn, long 1 un Italy could gain nothin; I Jet·ume C. Maleck, Donald Robert:;. fl'Dm n German or· Italo-German · BS in CbE'mistry victory. Behind the Fascist ]Jl'Pso Jo:Pph F. Collins, *Warren De- and reaffirmations of the Rorrc~- : Sot bo, *Walter A. Fallon Jr., Wil- Ber lin axi~ looms the common sense I liam G. Got·mley, *Edward )R. of 11 Duce and the Italian peopl'.l Kane, Paul L. Met·z, Sherman W. and that. after all. is still a factor Parry, Angelo J. Sederis, Bailey G. to be considered. ; StonP, Edward Tajkowski. ,John A. Ruskowski. 1 BS in Physics i Everett M. Hafner. CLASS OF 1941 -- - - -o ·- U. h S .e [ Bachelor of A1·ts .l..l.Ue n ucceSSI u ' RobPrt D. Amold, Paul W. Becker, Leland L. Beik, James L. Ln Role Of UJ:Otan Bothwell, Richard L. -·Brickley. rr. Charles J. B1·uesch Jt., ... Adam F. . . . Ciesinski James C. Cooper, Joseph To Sl~g .. t~e 1 ole of :wo.~an. ~n . T. Cristi~no, Albert A. Davis III, Wagner s Ntbelungen Rmg C> c.e I William Edwards William K is the ult.imate ~oal ?~.~II ba_l'itones Flynn. Boyd E. G~lder, *W. Brad~ ,.·ho .quahfy as · herme m vorce and ford T. Hastings. George W. Hem· physi~Ue. . . stead,''\Robex·t S. Herman, G. Dudley Juhus Huehn, who ~Vlll smg h;re Holmes, Harry D. House, Edmund on May. 10, the evenmg pre~e~mg G. Kelly, Warren c. Kimmey, the Junwr Ptom, has the dtstme- Leonard C. Mackenzie Jr. li_on of being p1obably the. youngest Roger D. Marshalt, Clatence H. ~.nger ever ~o assume thrs role at McCain, Edward w. Miller Jr., ln~ Metropohtun Opm·a House, and Rouer E Moran James A. O'Con- lhe . first American since Clarence 1101 ~ Robert A. ' Quinn, Mortimer· Whttehall. Robins, Daniel W. Roe, ''John A. Huehn. for hi:< first appea~·anee Ruskowski, Laskat· Schwartz, a>\ the one-ey:? _god. was a.~stgne_d James G. Shaw, John G. Sigsby, I he Wotan of Dre Walkure, r;nus1c *Ernest A. Staley, \''M:ilton H. whic_h of~er_s m~re vocal and mter- I Sugarman, *David v. Tiedeman, pretlve dlfftcultles than the Wotan James E Twining Jr. 1 oles of \Das Rheingold\ 01 \Sieg- BS in Civil EnginE'E'ring fried,\ As a Jesuit of his success ''\Hemy L. Crosby Jr .. Thoma 5 C. in this 1 ole hP was immediately en- Smith Jr., Edward J. Ward. e-ag-~d to sing this 1 ole with the BS in Ell.\ctrical Engineering Chicago City Opera, in a perform- '-'Cecil K Angell. *George S. nnce with Flagstad. and the San Becker. Jack W. Danser, John E. f'rancisco Opera. The Metropolitan Greaney, *Richard C. Griffin, Wil- c•fficials instructed him to prepare !lam G. Murray, Martin J. Satkow- t he other two Wotan roles. ski, David E. Waters, Philip R. This achievement on Huehn's Westlake. part marked the attainment of one CLASS OF 1942 of his ambitions. Some years ago, Bachelor of Arts when he was a pt om ising vocal stu- Raymund E. Aldrich Jr., Alex- dent. he gave his filst newspaper ander J. Arony, John C. Baas Jr., interview afte1 winning a radio Hans Boll. George W. Clark, Ar- prize in Pittsburg, his native city. thur T. Corrigan .. *William M. Daly, He tol'd the reporter that his Harold J. Delchamps Jt· .. Maurice greatest hope was that someday he Deul, Thomas J. Doyle, John W. would sing Wotan on the Met- Ehrcke, Donald C. Field, Robert D. ropolitan stage. However, he as- Fitzpatrick, Kurt A. Forkel, Robert ~nmed at that time that, like most D. Forrest, William C. Garcia, baritones in this part, he would ''Delphis C. Goldberg, Stanley D. he middle-aged before he was con- Greenstein, Bernard F. Haake, sidered ready to meet the Metro- Frank X. Hasselbacher, Harold V. politan standard. Hendrickson. \It is a wonderful experience to Robert K. Killian, John A. Knapp, ~ing this supm·b music from the •sam G. Kohlenberg, *Philip J. vo~al standpoint alone,\ ~;\aid Huehn, Landry Jr., Arthur L. LaRoche Jr., 'but the character of Wotan, with Keith C. McCandless, William E. tts combination of wisdom and Moore, Samuel Portnoy, Robert A. weakness. aspiration and disillusion- M. Ritchie, Hymen Rogachefsky, . men!, presents a fascinating chal· , Frederick P Schmelzer. Gordon J. l l<'nge to n smger's dramatic pow-~ Seme1 ad, *Edward P. Shapiro, Pl\s.\ George H. Shell, William C. Stone. I Con:;truction of South College, as it was known even before Ramee, wa> begnn in August, 1812, under Thomas McAuley. Strangely enough, McAuley, who was professor of Latin, supervised the construction :or thtee years and then returned to teaching as professo1· of mathe- matics. The first conce1 n of the builder; was to secure a brick yard, boards, fencing and mould\ which were bought between August 14 und Sep- tember 14. When' the bricl\ yard was lucated i::; nut ct\rtain but is thought to have been somewhere along the eastern edge of what is now Jackson's Garden. AfH:r the bl'ick yat d came the quanying of foundation stone, also u pparently from the college property. An in- teresting item is found in Treasurer Yates' acc<mnts under the date of Septembe1· 12, 1812: \To Thomp- son and Company for >tone dig- ging, $35; To Thomp:;on and Com- pany tht ee gallon;:; of rum, $3.37 1 '2·\ Well- diggers, stone- drawers, and day-laborers all seem to have re· ceived a rum ration quite regularly, in addition to theit· wages. By the middle of November. Willard H. Taylor, William E. Wel- let· Jr., Clayton L. Williams, Clar· ence E. Woodward. Engineering· Harold H. Britten, Donald R. Brockwell, Joseph F. Furlong Jt·., *Edward J. Kalenik, *William R. K1·uesi, Richard H. Marvin, Ber- natd J. O'Neill, Harry E. Rifen- bark. Harry E. Stevens, Walter F. Thiessen, Howat·d E. Van ValkPn· burg. BS in Clwmistry David K. Blake, Charles 0. Bost- wick, *Robert W. Davison, Clarence K. Lasher, •solomon Penn('!', John W. Rhoades. BS in Physics F1ancis H. Coffin, *Sanford P. Thompson. CLASS OF 1943 Bachelor of Arts Donald E. Abood, Robert M. Bishop. •EmilP J. Brunet, Robert H Cullen, John M. Duford, Harvey J. Fi~hhone. Robert B. Gillie, Frank W. Jones, Harold C. Joslin Jt· .. *Robert M. Kahn, *Joseph E. Ledden, Leon Levine, Everett H. McCarty. Harold M. Messenger Jr. John J. Neary Jr., William F. Nichol Jr., SPECIAL STUDENTS 1 [ atthe RATE ommouonE \NEW YORK'S BEST LOCATED HOTEL\ Frank J. Crohan, President • Convenient to all ManhaHan aHractions • SAMMY KAYE and hie orchestra In tho beautiful, now CENTURY ROOM RIGHT· AT GRAND CENTRAl'TERMJNAl COMMENT work was going ahead on the ac- tual foundation of the new build- ing which Professor Pearson in 18tH t·efet s to a's \some horrible plan made by som.eone\ Apparent- Y cun~t. U( t _Gn Pnded early in De- cC'rnber, for we find on the 7th this ~oncludlng note: \For straw anr· carrying it to cover foundation, $5.00.\ A!so un-der this date is an -item paying to a Mr. Walden and his heJ.pers $19.70 and th1ee gallons and 1% pints of nun for their labors on the '';outh well.\ Little, per- hap::;, did Professor McAuley realize what :shape his building would t!llke the next year for Ramee appeared in Schenectady in January, 1813. Ramee was brougHt to America by David Pa-rish, merchant .prince, in 1811 and after a conference with Presid~nt Eliphalet Nott submit- ted a bid Gf $1500 t0 plan the Unim1 campus. C0mpleting the wo!'k, namee was paid in $500 in- sta'llments, the final payment be- ing made in 1815. Construction on Ramee's. g-rand plan wa~ apparently begun in the Spring of 1813 for under the date of April 6, 1813, we find the entry: ''To Isaac Clute for waste of time and stuff in working on the first ?lan, $17.\ Both North and South College wcte t·cady for occupancy in the fa!.l of 1814, and the en tire bill for the new college edifices as it ap pear:; on the TreasUJ·,er's !edged fo1 July 21, 1821 was $119,110.68. This sum includes the building of a ·'NoJ·th Boarding House,\ a ter race walk, plowing and planting the college grounds, two new wells. and the purchase of a \large bell.\ In 1858 tte corner stone for Alumni Hall, now our library, wa~ laid. This b.Jilding is also included in Ramee's plan and its con struction is referred to in 1854 b;y PJ·ufessot· Pearson as follows: \The erPction of our pepper bf'x chapel is a standing juke. Twenty-two year:; ago when I first knew Union College it was just going up and every year since the rumor has bet'll tepeated till the very mention of such a thing incites a smile.\ Under Ptesident Potter in 1876 the building was finished as the N0tt Memorial building ... Wash bum Hall, erected in 1885, was the Ia~t of the Ramee planned build ings to be constructed. These buildings contain a volume of 2,658,700 cubic feet which today ate worth $845,500. Since then ad ditiuna:l building~ have been con structed on the campus, giving an additional volume of 3,358,200 cubic feet and worth about $1,056,789. To day the city assessors say all the buildings, including faculty resi dences, are worth $2,332.780. James H. Purdy III, Frederick N. Reed. Robert 0. Rodgers, Manuel A. Rodriguez, David H. Rosenblum, Walter J. Schulz, *William A. Sharkey, Fred M. Siegel, Charles W. Snell, Jack R. Staley, *Granger Tripp, Richa1·d T. Vinick, Richard K. Watanabe, William L. Wilkin, Norman N. Wrubel. EngineE'ring Robert E. Acker, John L. Dutcher, Richard F. Hoffman, ''Francis J. Jankowski, *Wilbur Lakin, Louis M. Loeb, Gerald P. Petersen, *Frank J. Salamone, Mic:hael T. Seppauen, •Robert L. Shephel'd. Richard A. Swift. Charles W. Thurston. BS in Chemistry Harold P. Bodenstab, James S. Gilmore. Donald J. Giroux, *Irving l}oodman, Gerhard W. Leubner, Donald W. Male, Theodore Male, Jame:,: S. Ruoff, Marvin D. Smith, Donald K. Stevens. BS in Physics Robert Bett:;. C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optometrist Ey\s Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'wa;v Telephone 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. Hear Glenn Miller on Bluebird Records Starlight and Music Hear My Song, Violetta 1.0684 My Melancholy Baby Stardust 10665 CASSEDY PIANO COMPANY d Your Record Headquarters 460 State St., near Proctor's ' f• Fi T tern the rne~ on . wer ma1 dlel c:hu R say thir shi<I Boa 'iaz outl tha ful I-: PJ.r amt the: will on!: COl\] San has two rna: A \ thl'l sec' tha vet' sho Str: the !i thh Bol Gil If1 wa1 bo:x anc 'I me 193 tee Ga: gar hit~ Th1 ter A of · rar wel cro F'ri daJ tho lot the out QUE Ro Str I sar pia wii He Me ag! Ha nee te1 on inr Or< sta bef hu sta ne: tot an an vel hif Rt M< m~ vi< M! ye: spc ca ea I.Ja La ca .r:r J·e: Mi Be th wi R1 w fie

ac- Hd- in his lize 3. the the in- be- the ime the for ap- for a ter- for wa~ by The and has tion the the ad- an To- the A. L. P. one, L. s. THE CONCORDIENSJS, TUESDAY. APRIL 23, 1940 Page Tl:lt·ee VARSITY BALLHAWKS FACE ROCHESTER FRIDAY Face Yellow jackets On Al:exande,r Field; Mould Na:med Starting -Hurler ~---- --------~------- \Varsity Stickmen Drop Second Game To Swa,rth.more Rochester Claims to Have Championship Club;· Ulrech Heads Upstaters' Pitching Staff Short Baseball Card Possible for 1941 Professor J. Harold Wittne1 ann0unced yesterday that the1 e . is a pm;sibility 'that the varsit) baseball team may play a modi- fied schedule of games next spring, contrary to a t·ecent re- . port that the activity had been definitely cancelled. The activity had been dtopped pzeviously due to the rehabilitation of Alex- 3.nder Field, which would leave the diamond unfit for use next >pring. The va1sity baseball club will at-q> tempt to sta:rt the 194(} season for I ---------------. the third time this Friday when H rneets the R0chester Yellowjackets on Alexander Field. The Dutchmen were kayoed twice ·by the weather man when they tried to play Mid- dlebury on Saturday and Massa- : <.:husetts State today. · Reports· from the River Campus say that Coach Lou Alexander is thinking in terms of a champion- ship season for his baseball club Boasting a flashy pitching staff, 'iazzling infielders and a powerful outfield, Roches let is confident that their team wi.Jl have a success- ful season. IDrech Heads Rochester Heading the pitching staff is Bob 'i.'J.rech, who has made a name among the Yellowjackets as one of their all time basketball greats. He will be backed up by Gil Lane, the only othet· veteran on ~he hurling corps, and Bob Nicholson and Bill Sand0w, two sophomores. Ulrech has the record at present of only two losses as a varsity hurler in as many years. At p1 esent Alexander is faced \'lith an infield prob1em. having lost three veterans in a 1 ow from the second base position. Aside from that, his infield will' be made up <Jf veterans Geisler at first, Collett at short and Quaint at third. Pete Stranges will do the catching for the third straight year. Quadrangular Track Meet Possible Saturday Jupiter Pluvius was the heavy wiM1er on SatHrday when he t0ssed a wet blanket over the scheduled varsity track meet and baseball game with Middle- bury on Saturday aftern0on, scoring shutouts in both tilts. The diamond tilt was cancelled on Friday evening while it was not till the Midd'lebury team ar- tived on the C'ampus Saturday t!':at the tt·ack meet was called off. Although both coaches agreed to cancelling the track meet, if preo;ent plans go through, Union, Middlebury, Vermont and R.P.l. will meet in a four-wav track n:eet this Saturday on the Ver- mont track. According to the present schedules 0f the fl!lUI' colleges, Union is slated to meet Vermont away this weekend and R.P.I wiH meet the Panthers on the Middlebmy campus. ·Effozts ate being made to consolidate the two dual meets into one f0ur-way meet. Union's athletic department has expressed its ap- proval of the plan as have rep· resentatives of Middlebury and R.P.I. As yet the University of Vermont has not committed itself ~o the date although Coach Ketz expects to hear from them today. No definite action has been taken on this plan pending approval from Vermont. Rochester 0pens with Syracuse this week and wHI probably start Bob Ulrech in the box. In that case Gil lane -\Will work the Union garre. If their tilt with the Orangemen is 1 1 ----------------' washed out, Ulrech will be in the box for the Yellowjackets on Alex- ander Field on Friday. Union vs. Rochpster in '38 The last ball games the Dutch- men played with Rochester were in 1938 when AI Mould scattered thir- teen Rochester hi-ts to aid the Garnet in a 11-5 win. In the return game Ulrech limited Union to fom hits· as the Yellowjackets won 5-l. The game scheduled with Roches- ter last season was washed out. After having the first two games of the season cancelled, Coach Law- rance is keeping one eye on the weather reports and his fingers crossed in hopes that the tilt on Friday will be played. Aiter five days of rain, Alexander Field is thoroughly soaked and will need a lot of clear weather to dry out. In the meantime the varsity will work out in the gym and hope for some oue-of-door practice before the Rochester game. possibly on Nott Street Field. Mould Will Pitch Lawrence wiH probably start the same lineup on Friday as he had planned for the Middlebury game with the exception of the pitcher He indicated yesterday that AI Mould will get the assignment against Rochester with \Swede\ Ha!l'son ready to relieve him if necessary. Mould faced the Roches- ter nine in 1938 when he carne oui on top, 11-5, after doing the full nine innings against them. Mould's· rec- ord as a varsity pitcher in two years stands at three wins and two losses besides numerous stretches as relief hurler and a game at Haverfot·d he started but was ct·edited with neither a win nor a loss. Mould's vic- tories have been against Rochester and Massachuse>tts State in 1938 and his win against Syracuse last vear on AJ.umni Day, 3-1. Both of. his losses occurred in '38 when Rutgers and Williams beat him. Mould has shown steady improve- ment as a varsity hurler since his victory in eleven innings against Massachusetts State in 1938. This year he occupies the number one spot on the mound staff and he and catcher Harry Palmer might well earn the title of the best collegiate. battery in this end of the state. Union Lineup Backing Mould up in the field. Lawrence will probably have co- captains Harry Palmer and Charlie .t;rockner catching and at first base respectively, Ned Reilly rut second, Mickey Rathlev at short, and either Bobby Garnett or AI Turchick at third. In the outfield Fred Patrie will patrol center field and Ea1! Raifstanger in left while \Tiny\ Weintraub will cavort in 1he sun- field. \Call Ball and Ball Will Call\ Freshmen Track Team Preparing For Mt. Pleasant The yearling track situation is well under way by this time with the ~quad down to a minimum and in good shape for its three meets with Nott Tenace on May 1, Albany Academy on May 9, and Mont Pleasant on May 15. The shortness of the schedule has nothing to do w.ith ·the difficulties of it. Nott Terrace and Mont Pleas- ant have close to the best high schcol track teamo in the country and the occasions are few when the freshmen have had the good fo1tune to overcome them. The \quad as it shapes up con- sists of Wallace McMillan in the 10(} yard dash, Don Klinkow and McMillan in the 220, Klinkow and Stan Davis in the 440; Jim Quinn will run in the half mile. Chaz les Snell, Ken Yynge and Gerry Luebner will be the contend- ers in the mile run. Johnny Gulnac and John Adamzevich will throw the discus, while Adamzevich and Arthur Leroy will tos\ the shot. Both the high and low hurdle po- sitions will be held by Bill Wilkins, the pole vault by Harland Buckland and the broad jump position will be held down by Charles Chase. Freeman:s High Quality WALLPAPER PAINT GLASS For Past 142 Years Freeman & Son. Incorporated Phone 4-9155 12-20 Erie Blvd. LOUIS WASSeRMAN QUALITY MEAT 354 B'way MARKET Ph. 4-3364, 4-3365 PH 0 N E 6·3456 Guibert Outstanding For Union as Lacrosse T earn Bows, 8-3 The varsity lacrosse team 'lost its second game of the season when they bowed to the Swa1th- m0re ten ·in a t<>ugh and muddy con- test Sa:turday afte1·noon on the Pennsylvania campus 8-3. In its pre- vious game the Dutchmen lost to Hobart 19-6. Coach Harkness' comment,; on the game were that the score did · not show the evenness of the two teams and except for the bad breaks it received his >quad would have ccme much closer to winning and with luck might have upset the Quakers. The game was played un- der po0r· conditions. a heavy rain turning the ground into a slipper·y sea of mud. The Dutchmen were fur·thet· handicapped by lack of re- serve~. only seventeen men making the trip. The muddy field tired the players much quicker than ordi- naty conditions would have, and by the end of the game the entire un- dermanned Garnet ~quad was ex- hausted while the Quaker·s were able to \ubstitute fresh men at will. Union took the Jead in the open- ing minutes of play when Jack Guibert dropped a shot into the Swarthmore nets but the Qualters quickly rallied and slipped three shots past Dud Holmes to be on top at the end of the first period, 3 to 1. Fa~·. :Sewton Scor·e Mel'lin Fay. co-captain of the Garnet team, opened the oecond f1ame when he sc01ed but Swarth- more tallied twice more in the pe- ricd to lead at half time 5 to 2. Bob Newton scored the only other Union goal in the third period while the Quakers slipped two past Holmes and one more in the fourth period. to win 8 to 3. Th1·ee of the Swarthmore goals were scored when Goalie Holmes left the cage unguarded when h(' slipped on the wet ground and was unable to regain his feet in time to defend it. With this bt·eak not against him and with a few more reserves, Coach Hat·kness stated that the game might have ended differently. Guibert Outstanding The one bright spot of the con- test was the playing of Jack Gui- bert for the Dutchmen. Guibert was the outstanding man on the field for the Dutchmen, constantly emerging f1om the center circle with the ball. His defensive play · was a big factor in keeping Fred PEOPLE'S FOOD MARKET FINE FOOD and GROCERIES 1291 Rugby Rd. Wittner said .1n his annotmce- ment that lte has written to seven colleges in an attempt to schedule them for away games. The schools that he has conl- municated with are Massachu- setts State, Williams, Hamilton, Sy-racuse, S.levens, Rutgez s and R.P I. If Wittner's plan material- izes all of these games with the exception of R.P.I. would be played away. Efforts are being made to schedule the R.P.I. con- tetit ior Alumni Day, June 7, on Alexander Field, at which time the rehabilitated field would be dedicated. If the modified schedule work- ed out the Dutchmen would hold their practice sessions on the Centzal Park diamond next spring, Wittner said. Donnely, Swarthm01·e star, in check. Co-captain Fay and sopho- mote Bob Newton wet·e the other outstanding men on the field wear- ing the Garnet colors. Both men played a hard fa>t game for the Dutchmen, both on the offense and dcfenoe as well as scoring one goal apiece. The Union squad r etlllned to the campus late Saturday night and will practice with Coach Harkness this week in preparation for a five-game home ::;tand, starting with Lafa~·ette on Saturday, April 27. Following the Lafayette game the Dutchmen meet Steven:; on May 4. Colgate on May 10, Williams on May 15 and finish their season when they encounter Syracuse on the Li- bl·ary Field on June 1. ,J u't around the •orner ou F:a!lotern A' enue </uality lfe Ct'e:lm I.i~ht Lunche' tli'J·:X 'I'U.J. UID'i'JGHT Bellevue Cj)uality Bakery 2625 B'way Phone 4-6248 BREAD -ROLLS ~ PASTRY Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY PH ONE 4-2553 GUERRA PHARMACY We deliver sandwiches and drugs till 11 p. m. PHONE 6-9419 600 UNION ST. Cor. BARRETT Drugs, Prescriptions, Sundries SANDWICHES and LIGHT LUNCHES LET THIS SYMBOL Be Your Guide in Buying ICE CREAM Product of General lee Cream Corporation Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market \Quality - Service Satisfoction\ OUR M OTT 0 598 Broadway For Better Values Yearling Nine To Play Saturday Face Amsterdam High In Season Opener; Bob Lee Nominated Pitcher 1 Coach AI Ciampa stated that the performance and showing of his fteshman baseball club thi;; spring, will rest lat·gely on the at·ms of his I hUl'lers. At the present, Ciampa is ~an·ying a five-man pitching staff of Bob Lee, Johnny Dutcher, Doug Slingerland. Henry Cummings and D0n GeiEel. Stating that he had a team which was strong on the offentie and bet-, tel' than a vemge in the field, Ciampa said it is <•ntirf'ly up to the eftectivE'nf.'ss of his pitchers what record his team would have at the end of the season. AI has nominated Bob Lee to toil for the yearling club in its opening con- test of the season with Amster- dam High School on Saturday aft- ernoon on Alexander Field. Lee, a 1 former Troy High School pitche1·, 1 .. ha:; ohown the most ability and is the ·number one man on the staff. In the practice tilts with the var- sit~· last week Ciampa had Don Quigley at first, Hank Wysocki at the keystone sack, Whitey Cam- wright at :;hort ~top and Stan Steingut at third. Toby Champlin and Fred Smith have been sharing the receiving duties behind the plate. Salamone has been filling in in the infield as a reserve, and may break into the lineup before the season clo\es. In the outfield Ciampa has Frank Jones at center, Ed Kaufman at left, and Doug Slingerland in right. In practice games with the var- sity last week the freshman team looked: like a well balanced squad but also showed the need of pt·ac- tice out-of-doors. DALEY'S Featuring GOOD FOOD AND DRINKS BOOTH and COUNTER SERVICE 414 STATE ST. i TENNIS REGULATIONS 1. All players MUST wear TEN- NIS SHOES with soft pliable soles and a top garment of attire. Basketball and other types of shoes are not accept- able. 2. The caretaker shall be sole judge as to the use of tne court,; after ra·iny wnather. Courto are to be used only when the nets are up. 3. Workmen engaged ia repair· ing or marking the couz ts are to be permitted to complete their task before play can start. 4. Students and Faculty only shaH be permitted the use of the courts. 5. Children of the Faculty Members shall be permitted the use of the courts if any are vacant, bHt NEVJoat to the exclusion of the two above named groups. 6. Doubles should be played •shenevet· possible so as to insure use of the courts to the maximum number of playe1·s. 7 If persons are waiting to play, both singles and doubles matches are to be permitted to finish their set befor•'l va- cating. In the event that the set goes to deuce, play shali stop at once. 8. The tennis courts will be open on week-days until dark. 9. Play on Sunday shall be ,·e- stricted to the hours of 1 p.m to 5:30 p.m., and all players must be dressed in a CLEA.N WHITE COSTUME. 10. Use of the indoor court iiJ the gymnasium will be re- served f0r the varsity ,quad when inclement weather pro- hibits their practice outdoors. 11. Violators of the above rules will be denied the privilege of using the courts. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food-Always Opel'l One step from State St. PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. CLOVERLAND CREAMERY For Prompt Service MILK. BUTIER- EGGS • CHEESE- ICE CREAM Phone 6-8104 919 State St. Watch and Jewelry Repairing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. Gazette Press Printers Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY STREEl' ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS

., Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 23, 1940 Still No Cancer 'Cure 1 College Officials Find Scott, ·Union Graduate, To Address Biologists Debaters To Close Season This Week With Three Meets Philomathean Society To Meet St. Lawrence, Siena, St. Rose Teams The official debating season for thP Philomathean Societv will close this week, in the course of which th~ee meets are schedulPd, it was announced last night by John A. H.uskowski, newly named student manager of debate. Ruskowski in- dicated that Union would meet teams representing Saint Rose and Riena Colleges, and St. Lawrence University, and would also partici- pate in a two-day forum to be held at Colgate. College olficials were surpt ised The third Biology Colloquium of yesterday when a man, who said he the year wiU be held in Room 205 !::ad heard the Empire State Town of the Biology Building tomorrow l\!eeting discussion on cancer ove1· evening at 8:00 p.m., it was an- the radio Sunday, approached them nounccd today by Professor James with evidence of the possession of a w. Mavor, chairman of the field cure for cancer. The rather slightly\ of biology, who is in cha1ge of the built man asked for assistance in program. Mr. George T. Scott of p1·esenting his remedy to competent the class of 1938, at present at Hal'- physicians and was directed to a va!'d Univ<'rsity. will spPak on .thP loca·l pathologist, who, although subject of \The Unicellular Or- agi·eeing to examine the medica- ganisrn as a Subject for Physiolo- tion, exp1 \~\Pel skPptki!<m that any 1 ~ical Investigation.\ \medicine\ could cure cancer, no.w Dr. Mavor indicated at the same curable only through sut·geiy or time that tomorrow night's Col- radium treatments. loqium wiJ.l be the last to be held Asking that his name be withheld during the runent academic yea,., ft om the public until his medicine yea!. Tomorrow, Ruskowski and Roger :!'vlat·shall, '41, will meet representa- tives of Saint Rose and Siena on the subjec-t of \Relief Planning'' and \Milk Prices.\ in what is to be, &.s Ruskowski indicated a \warm- up\ for the Colgate conference Two days later, on Friday, Apz il 26, Boyd G0lder, '41. and William Kilmez·. '40, will travel to St. Law- rence where they will participate ir, a debate upon the general sub- ject of \Propaganda.\ Kilmer will <>:<plain the techniques and devices of propaganda, while Golder wiH take up propaganda as pmctic!:'d il• totalitarian states. Go To Conferenc•· On the same day. Ruskowski and Edwards will travel to Colgate Uni- versit v fot th~ conference held annually on the campus thez·e. Among the topics that the Union ikbaters will take up there are: \How Should New Ym·k State Finance Its Rcli!:'f P1 ogram,\ and \Should the ~ilk of New York Sta:te Consumets be Rt>duced in Price, and, if so, How.\ Ruslwwski also indicated that, in addition to the above sch!:'dule. the I'hilomathean Society had made tentative plans to attend a con- ference on government problems at V\'illiam College in th<> Parly pat t <'.f May, should that institution de- cide to hold the conference. He pointed out that th<> WiNiams con- ference would b£> much the same a~ that held at Wesleyan and at- tended by Union rep1 esentatives t-arlier in the year. :\1ar~hall. who is president of the Philomatheans, announced last night tha•t in response to a request by the Society for more suitable facilities for meetings, President Fox has ~ugge,;ted that the group continue to make use of the first floor of Silliman Hall for this pur- pose. In addition, Dr. Fox has granted petmission for the use of the small room now occupied by the piano. as a closet in which wiH be kept the various Iiles, records and other materials used by the debat- ets :liarshall indica·ted that this over thP highly curtailed conven- was a t1 emendou~ improvl'ment iences which the Society has had ut its disposal in the past, ,;ince no ct•ntt al building was, at any time, available for the Philomatheans. ·L·nder the suggested setup, how- ,.,·er, the efficit•ncy and convenience ••f the Illes will be greatly increased, _\laz shall said had received a fair trial, the strang- er proceeded to make extravagant daims fot· the effectiveness of his mystet·ious medicine, which he claimed, had been a family sect et since the 17th century. But, upon investigation by the pathologist the \cure\ turned out to be a castor bean which physi- cians recognize promotes, rather than retards, the growth of can- cerous tissue and, hence, would t.chievc the very opposite effect intended. Officials t·eport a sadder and wis- e,· man went home. - --- -0- Sigma XI Honors Initiates Tonight Dr. Baitsell To Speak At Hale House Dinner Of Scientific Group The Union Chapter of Sigma Xi will honor its newly initiated mem- bets this e\·ening in Hale House at 7 o'clock. The speaker will be D1. GPorge Baitsell, professor of biology at YalP University, former national president and newly-elect- ed secretary of Sigma Xi. Following the dinner, Dr. Baitsell will give an illu:'tt·ated lecture in the Old Chapel on \Continuity in Nature.\ D1. Baitsell has been pt·ofessor of Biology at Yale University since 1928. Since 1938, he has been President of .the Society of Sigma Xi and was recently elected Sec- retaty to succeed Dr. Edward El- lery of Union College on July 1, when Dr. Ellery will take ovet· the duties of President of the hon- m·ary scientific fraternity. Dl'. Baitsell is the editor of the Sigma Xi publication, \Science in Pro- gt ess\ and is a frequent contributor to other :;cienti.fic puh.ications. In this 53rd annual lecture spon- sored by the Union Chapter, Dr. Baitsell will use both slides and motion pictures to show that there is continuity thmughout the living and inanimate world. He believes \there is a possibility the living organism is som!:'thing more than the sum of ib parts. Such being the case, it i,; not to be expected that continual fragmentation will of itself necessarily reveal the nue inner meaning of life processes. Is theze not the pos::;ibility that thcte is :comething d<>eper and mot·e fun- damental than cells. molecules 01 evrn atoms that contains the key to the my>tery of life?\ ------------ I n The M a i To The Editor: ~ f have lead With intere,;t a letter st·nt to you by \Atch\ Smith and \Rtch\ Henyo.n, as I am always anxious to read optmons which differ from mine. In writing for the ''Concotdy\ I have never im- agined myself to be an infallible \critic\, but rather a college stu- d .. nt who has dl'vuted ,orne time and money to the study and ap- prrciation of jazz music. Therefore, I c:tn tak•· nu offt·n~t· at their call- ing my ,.1 itkbms \amateurish\. What due\ puzzle me, is ju.;t what a1 <' \hit·Ol·miss\ opinions? Do m~· fdluw >tUd<>nts mean that a \hit cpinion\ i' on~ with which they agteP, and u \mi~s opinion\ is one with which they disagree? If this is what thry mean. I EN' no reason why th<>y should find fault with my colun1n ju,t lll'cau''' it !<'presents opinion> which do not agrPr with t hril-s. ton Smith'' a1 ticle in the latest ''E~quirP.\ If thr gl'ntlemen would care to hear a t1 uly gt·eat rendition of \Jazz Me Blues,\ I should sug- ge\t that they listen to the number as played by the Jimmy McPart- land band in the Chicago Jazz Album You'rp welcome. 1 am not the only one who has P\'Pr d!:tectPd a faulty perf01·mance by Liotwl Hampton A; my two C'o1·r (~~pondent.-; :--lCPm to cat e .so mu<'h about what profeB<ional C'rit ics ha V(' got tu :;ay, I should like to reft•J tht•m to ~r. B. H. Hag gin. with whom they a1 e no doubt familiar, who ha£ on many occasions rr·iticisPd Mr. Hampton for hi> sloppy and meaningless play- ing As for the James z·econling, lll.) opinion is ><till the same. The com· position that ~1·. James plays is not, as my friends would believe, a \little\ known ,;core\ as \Car- nival Of Venice\ has long been one of th!:' favorite pieces of bud- ding and expr1 i<'nced trumpeter>. J think I am rather familiar with the writing of world famous critics, and I have never read in any of the wt·itings of Panassie, Feather, Haggin, or Dorothy Baker, to men- tion a fE'W. any statement that James is in a class with Bieder- beck<>. As a matte!' of fact, I do not recall ever reading anything about JamE's in any book or article by a world-famous cl'itic. In conclusion I qhould like to thank \Arch\ and \Rich\ for their intPtPst in my column which has prompted them to write their letter. • Hurd Announces Courses For Summer Chemistry For the nmth consecutive yea1·, summer courses in Chemistry will be offered at Union, it was an- nounced yesterday by Professor Charles B. Hurd, chairman of the field of chemistry. The school will open on Monday, June 17, and will can tin ue for a period of from seven to ten weeks, depending on the nature of the course. 'J'hp ('0\ll'SPi< wi.J.l hP givPn fiVP days a weelc fgr seven weeks in general chemistty and quan:titative analysis and ten weeks in organic chemistry. Recitations and lectures will make up the morning schedule and laboratory work will take place in all courses from 1:30 to 4:30 o'clock in the afternoon. World's Fair to 0 !fer Special Student Rates The New York World's Fair is offering special cut rate tick- ets to college students and mem- bers of the facuHy who purchase them before the opening of the Faiz, according to a recent an- nouncement by Fair Officials. Three types of tickets at·e list- ed; a twenty admission pass cost- ing $3.50; a season ticket good for an unlimited number of ad- mif'Ficm~. f'O>ting $n.OO; and a souvenir ticket book good for five admissions to the fair and five admi,;sions to feature at- tractions, costing $2.00. the Wold, Studer Develop Educational Apparatus The Central Scienti-fic Company, manufacturers of physics apparatus has announced that it Is preparing to produce the new Rotary Mec'han- icai O:scHiator which was developed in the Union College Physics La-b- oratories by Drf:'. Frank J. Studer , and Peter I. Wold. The oscillator which was con- structed for u~e in connection with the Meldes' Experiment has been operated for demonstration an-d laboratory work for the past three years. It is in this capacity as an educational featm·e that the com- pany will put the machine up for sale. • • 1/r Smokers are buying 'em \two packs at a time\ because Chest .. erfields are DEFINITELY MILDER, COOLER· SMOKING and BEiTER- TASTING. Chesterfields are made from the world's finest cigarette tobaccos and they're made right. In size, in shape, in the way they burn . everything about Chesterfield is just right for your smoking pleasure. BETTY MAE AND BEVERLY CRANE You get twice the plea sure watching the CRANE TWINS in the Broadway Revue Hit \Hellzapop pin'\ because there are two of 'em ••• the busiest pair of dancing twins you ever saw. ester ie But enough \split-hairs\. Let us take a look at the record or rec- ords. My criticism of Bob Crosby's recording of \Jazz Me Blues\ wa~ that it r.a~ no outstanding vit·tue\ save Fazola',; clarinPt and Stacy's piano. I still bPlieve that I am well enough aware of the excellence of the Crosby crew, but in a record- ing by the Bob Cats I do expect more than just two hot Eo los. The band is not a\ tightly-knitted group\ as th!:' two \swing\ fans think, but is rather· an organization of expert musicians whose lack of rigidity has characterized the outfit. \Individual virtuosity\ and not \universal\ ( ?) excellence\ is what the Bob Cats feature. For more inforamtion about the Crosby orchestra, I should suggest that they read Carle- Stanley Green Copyright 1940, L!GGErt & MYERS TOBACCO CO, ~8~~RA4 2 y, A T~ pa ar co hE cu ci::: th• Li' cu Ja u.· !OJ Sc H: th• \T Ec de pr Ar ov Sp le~ Pr Cc pr Bz ha to: ar w fie mi de C!. uf bil St U1 tic Fe D1 sc ie~ g-a Tl: se co pa ve G. OH m Cl lel ti< le: Dc C.< D. y, co Ci VE ae cc di to D le le u V\i E lr U: is in ti he w Jl tc Si te S} OJ ir d; p s w E t! m tE

ny, tus an- pad der on- ree an ior UNION CC·~LEGE • • Langmu:ir To Speak On Campus Prom Prices tfltStS Increase 1 ' . ' I Tomorrow Z-511 Vol. LXIII., No. 50 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1940 PRICE FIVE CENTS Association of A:meri~can Coll.ege·s To Hold Parley Today and Tomorro·w Ma,ny School Officers, Presidents and Dea'ns To Discuss Various Educational Developments In Undergraduate ar~d Graduate Curriculum Executive officers, pr.esiaents and deans for the most part, representing 88 col.leges in the five New England states and New York State will take part in the annual regional conference of the Association of American Colleges to be held here today and tomorrow. Four major topics will be dis-,~. cussed at the .official sessions. \So- r----------------r cia! Security and the Colleges,\ anrt the \Program of the Arts in the Liberal Rrts Colleges\ will be dis- cussed this afternoon. Profps,;m· James T. Shotwell of Columbia UnjversHy, noted international his- torian, will speak on the \World Scene\ at the annual dinner in Hale House tonight. T·omorrow, the college executives will consider \The Colleges and Pre-professional Education.\ Dr. Edward V. Stanford, presi- dent of Villanova College and president of the Association of American Colleges, will preside over the session this afternoon Speakers on. the subject of the col- lege and s-ocial security were President W. E. Weld of Wells College, J. W. Lowes, financial vice- president of Harvard Univet sity, Brother Victor, president of Man- hattan College and President Clif- ton D. Grev r.f Bates College. Eric T. Clarke, director of the al\ts program of the association will :ead the discussion in this field. Scientists Broadcast Last night Dr. Leonard Car- michael, phychologist and presi- dent of Tufts .College, Dr. Hans T Clark, bio-chemist of the College uf Physicians and Surgeons, Colum- bia University, and Dr. Lion ell C. Strong, cancer authority of Yale University's Medical School, par- ticipated in the \WGY Science Forum\ under the leadership of Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox. They de- scribed current research and stud- ies in their particular fields, which g-ave promise of future fulfillment. They also agreed that scientific re- search workers should give as much cooperation as possible to news- papers and to radio to publicize de- Union Students Invited To Youth Conference The Mohawk Valley Confer- ence of Unital'ian churches i:,; conducting a youth .program, to which Union College students have been invited to partici-pate, this Saturday and Sunday, April 27 and 28, at the All Souls Uni- tarian Chu1·ch at the corner of Wendell avenue and Union street. A panel di8cussion will be held Saturday afternoon on program planning, worship s e r vices, money Iaising, and member~hip. In the eveni·ng a d·inner with the adult group has bee·n planned at Phich time Professor Mohler of Sltidmore College will deliver an acdre>'s o 1 \Making Democracy \7Cik.\ Following the dinner there will be dancing and a can- dlelight service. Sunday morning Rev. Stephen H Fl'itchman, the executive di- t ector of the Unitarian Youth Commi~sion. will lead a discus- sion of problems relating to col- lege age groups. A church serv- ice and luncheon will close the conference. Science Students To Hear Langmuir Union Honorary Fellow In Physical Science Begins Stay on Monday velopments in science. Dr. Irving Langmuir, winner of Tomorrow morning, Dr. Roswell the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in G. Ham, president of Mount Holy- 1932, Associate Director of Re- oke College, will assume the chair- search for the General Electric manship of the program in the Old Company, and Honorary Fellow in Chapel at 9:00 o'clock. \The Col- the Physical Sciences at Union Col- leges and Pre-professional Educa- lege, will spend a week on the cam- tion\ will be discussed under the pus in his official capacit~- com- leallership of Dr. W. C. Rappleye, rnencing with Monday, April 29, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at Peter I. Wold, charima;n of the di- C.olumbia University; Dr. Russell vision of science announced today. D. Niles, Professor of Law at New York University; Dr. w. L. Mal- A luncheon to be held in the Col• com Director of the School of IE'ge physics building on Monday, Civil Engineering at Cornell Uni- April 29, will begin the week's ac- h tivities for Dr. Langmuil'. The ver·sity, and Dr. Leonard Carmie - a . el President of TUftti College. The members of the faculty and stu- , dent bodv of the physics depat t- conference will closE' with an open ment ari to attend the collation discussion of all matters pertinent a·t which time Dr. C. V. Strain, will to college administration. present a paper concerned with Among the members of the Asso- \nucleur physics.\ Tuesday evening elation that will send representa- at 7:30 o'clock the honorary fellow tives are such institutions as: Har- will meet with the students in both vard University, Yale University, Da ·rtmouth College, Williams Col- the fields of chemistry and' physics to discuss some aspects of the two lege Skidmore College, Smith Col- sciences. No membet s of the fac- lege; Skidmore College and the United States Military Academy at nlty will be pre::;ent. West Point. Will Addrf'ss Faculty ----o---- As is the custom on these visit::; Ellery Addresses Alumni Dr. Langmuil will addre:,;s the D C A membet·s of the faculty on some In Washington . • . rea topic concerned with his reseatch work in the Genera:! Electric Lab- Dr. Edward Ellery, chairman of oratories on Wednesday, .May 1, at the faculty and professor of chem- 4:30 p. m. in the physics lecture istry in residence, who is complet- room. The topic of his discussion ing his eighteenth year as the na- tor this year will be \Miscellane- tional secretary of the Sigma Xi, ous Observations of Natlilal Phc- honorary scientific society, l_'nd w~o nomena\ and the lecture will be will become national president 1ll open to all students in any division July left Wednesday for Washing- as well as any friends of the col- ton,' D. c. where he met with the lege. Sigma Xi's national board of trus- Dr. Langmuir will conciude his tees. Ell brief stay on the campus With an While in Washington, Dr. er~ add 1 ess to the entire student body spolte to the Union College alumm at the regular dally assembly pe- of that city at their annual meet- riod on Thursday morning. The ing at the Cosmos Club on Thurs- topic Of his speech at that time will day night. He will also address. the N l\.1 l't .. Philadelphia .area alumni tomght. be \Why ot ora r y. The remarkable growth of the The noted scientist has held Sigma Xi's influence !n educational many honorary positions during his work is largely attrtbuted to Dr. affiliation with the college. Ih 1923 Ellery's work as the national secre- he was awarded an honotary Doc- tary. He has personal!:[ i~tstalled tor of Science degree and was ap- more than half of the soCiety s chap- ·pointed a special lecturer in that ters. field. 26 Annual Prizes Highest Seniors Awa:rded Students To Be Honored ln Daily Assembly At Commencement Representatives of Classes Elected For Next Years Student Council Norris and Rathlev Ti.ed for Senior Membership; 12 Fraternity and I 0 Neutral Men Receive Posts At Elections Held in the Chapel This Morning Twenty-two men repre&enting the senior, junior and Dr. John March Speaks On Invention of Press At Chapel Exercises Valedictory and Prize Speakers To Be Named By Faculty Committee Dr. John L. Marcn, pt·ofessor of The ten member::; of the senior psychology and senior membet' of class who have attained the high- the college faculty, traced the de- est ~cholastic average in their four velopment of civilization and inven· years of undergraduate work at tion in his address at the annual Union College have been honored \prize day\ exercise::;, held in chapel with stage app0intments for the Wedneod'ly morning. 1940 commencement exercises to be sophomore classes for the academic year 1940-41 were elected to positions on the Student Council by popular vote of the student body, after the regulal' daily assemblr pl'0gram to- day, it was armounced by Louis Carr. Reminding students tha,t the held Monday, June 10, It was an- 500th anniversary of the inventi.on nounced today by Dan Garis. of the printing .ptess is to be cele- In accordance with the new pol- blated this year, Dr. March cited icy inaugurated last year, one ot this process as one of the gr·eatest 'these men will be selected by a fac- of all inventions. \The printing ulty committee to deliver tne vale- press has made the whole world die tory address and three others liter&te. But more than that, it has will be allowed to deliver com- always been the great instrument mencement speeches in competition of human freedom,\ he said. for the Blatchford Oratorical Prize. Hammerstrom Wins Bailey Cup The ten men who will sit on the stage are: Warren DeBorbo, Zyg- Samuel C. Hammerstrom was · munt Gr·abicki, Edward R. Kane, awarded the Bailey Cup, the top Wallace F. Baker, Alexander cor- prize, fot· having rendered \the nell, liobert Eisner, Stanley B. greate::;t service to the college in Gertz, Lewis Hallenbeck, Marvin P. any field.\ Hammerstrom's activi- Lazarus and Harry G. Silleck. ties which \br·ought honor to the name of Union\ centered about his Marvin Lazarus, a candidate for work a::; captain of Union's first un- R. A. degree, is a member of Phi defeated football ::;quad in twenty- ,ljeta Kappa, social studies club, five yeat·s. He was the leading manager of debate and is affiliated scot·er in the Ea::;t and was chosen witn the Kappa Nu fraternity. for the first team on the Associated Alexander Cornell, a social stud- p1 e;;s selectio 11 of \Little All- ies major, is a member of the so- America\ and the United Press se- cia! studies club, Phi Beta Kappa, lection of \All-Up-State\ eleven:,;. and is a neutral. Harry Silleck is also a member Lawt·ence V. Pellettier, Jr., was of Phi Beta Kappa, social studies awarded the Daggett Prize for be- club as well as the varsity debate ing the outstanding senior with re- society. He is not affiliated with any spect to conduct and character. fraternity. Wallace F. Baker was given honor- Wallace Baker, a Civil Engineer, able mention for this prize. Pellet- was appointed an associate mem- tier was ecitor of the Conc01·dien- ber of Sigma Xi. president of the sis, and BakPr was last year's ex- A. S. C. h:., president of his sopho- change scholar to St. Andrews Un·i- mote claes, and treasurer of the versity. senior class. He is a member of the Paul c. Hayner won f.our prizes: J:-'si Upsilon fraternity and has re- the Archibald prize for being the ~eived Bloch U's in football and ]a- senior who taking Latin and crosse. Greek courses attained the highest Robert R. Eisner, a member of standing in the Division of Litera- Phi Beta Kappa, was managing ture; the Warner prize for similar editor of the Garnet, business man- grounds in addition .to having sus- ager of the Concordiensis, and a lained the best character for moral membet· of the Kappa Nu fra- rectitude and deportment without ternity. regard to t·e!igious practice or pro- Edward Kane, a candidate for fession;\ the Leonard Chester the B. S. degree in Chemistry, lli Jones memorial pdze for making secretat·y of the chemistry club. the best record' in the study of Peter Grabicki, a pre-med., is a French; and the Robert G. O'Neale member of the Phi Beta Kappa fra- prize for attaining the highest ternity. He and Kane are both neu- scholastic standing among those trals. taking Latin as a major language. Stanley B. Gertz, a social studies student, is a member of the social Other multiple prize winners in· studies club and is associated with elude Marvin F. Lazarus, who re- the Kappa Nu fraternity. ceived the Thompson Essay Prize, Lewis Hallenbeck, a member of the first of the three Allison prizes the Delta Chi fraternity, is an asso- and the Donald P. Coulter debat- ciated member of Sigma Xi. He is ing prize; Edwin A. Fitz, Jr., who an engineer. won the Ingham Prize Essay and Warren De Sorbo, a B. S. in the Pullman PrizP; and Robert F. chemistry, was on the student <Continued on Page 2l council in his junior year. Model of Future Union Buildings Called 'Pipe Dream' by Mcllwaine The Union of the futute has ex-~­ isted for the la8t eight or nine years-as. a model in the comptrol- ler's officP. A grandiose pipe dream, students, Mr. Mcllwaine explain- t'd. New dormitories closely re· ~embling the present South and North College are planned' and lo- cated to the south and north of the present buildings by the archi- tects. To accommodate all new stu- dPnts in classrooms, the college pasturE' has b£>en honeycombed with buildings and wallts. The crowning addition is a huge ad- ministrative center in Georgian style complete with towPr clock. Spread out from this center lie buildings in every form and 8hape known to the architectural wrold. in the opinion of Mr. Theodore R. M<'Ilwaine, the model was prepared by the architectur·a! firm of Mc- Kim, Mead and White of New York City in either 1931 or 1932. About four square feet in size. the model is of plaster of paris, the material regularly used for small scalP models, Mr. Mcllwaine said. All present bulldings have been carefully made to ~cale and placed in their accustomed locations with but two exceptions. The steam plant is to ·be moved to the corner of Noh and Seward Placee and re- erected with a shorter smoke stack while Washburn Hall is to be mod- ernized with a new classical front. All the planned buildings are on the present campus except an un- known bascilica placed where the Kappa Nu house now stand~. No mention is made of what the Kappa Nu's will do in the dim distant future when the plan is executed except that they might occupy some of the new fraternity houses strewn around the campus by the architects. The model Union is a large one, planned for about two thousand The main wonder is not in the buildings but in the athletic plant. A huge new stadium, rivaling Baket· Bowl and complete with every modern convenience, would be erected facing the present chemistry building. Whether the Union of the future will look like the plaster model in the comptroller's office remains a moot question, Mr. Mc1lwaine said. \Most grand dreams of this sort never turn out the way they are planned. There's been a change in administration since this was made and that means a change in ideas of plannmg,\ he explamed. - - --~ Their appointments wait only for Union Historical Data On Display in Library An antiquated collection of data dedicated to the early his- tory of Union College has been- arranged for display in the Nott Memorial Library, He I m e r Webb, college librarian, an- nounced. Included in this historical ex- hibit are the initial plans of Jacques Ramee, French archi· teet, from which the original college build-ings were construct- ed in 1718. Supplemeting this rare print are a few old pictures of the buildings and grounds as they appeared at that time. In addition there will be the original documentti included in the library catalog of 1799, the law::; uf Union College for the year 1802, letters of John Blair Smith, the first president of the college, to book seller William Young regarding the first pur- chase of books for the college, and the letter of acceptance by Jonathan Maxcy in reply to his appointment as president of the college in 1801. This will be contrasted with the letter· received from William Lind declining the college presi- dency. The faculty and trustee reports of 1795 and 1797 will complete the exhibition. Mountebanks Plan To Revive Custom Tradition of Presenting Moliere Comedy at Prom Resurrected In presenting Moliere's \The Doc- tor In Spite of Himself\ on Junior Prom night, May 11, the Mounte- banks will revive a custom which was prevalent at Union College more than half a century ago. The Civil War brought a halt to this tradition of giving a play by this author on the dance night. The production which will also be presnted on May 3 and 4, i.s to be given in its entirety. The Mounte- banks vetsion will beat' scenes which contain a seventeenth cen- tury gusto that were frequently cut in school productions. Edward L. Carroll, who staged 'The Imaginal y Invalid,\ and \ThP Bourgeois Gentleman\ for the Mo- hawk Drama Festival, is directing the production with some unusual tH:atment of the ~atire on the medi- cal profession. .::Vliss Beth Walsh, star of the Schenectady Light Opera Company who sang the role of Athenee in the :.\Iohawk Drama Festivals vcreion of \The School for Husbands,\ is not only playing the role of the attractive nurse, Jacqueline, but will also sing a de- lightful song of Moliere's peri0d. Miss Walsh has played the leading role~ in such popular light operas as \The Gondoliers,\ \Patience \Lovely Galatea,\ \Ermine and \Chanticleer Hall.\ The role of Sganarelle, the man who passes himself off as a doctor, which is to be played by Jacob H. Van Aernam, J·r., '42, a student in the Institute sponsored by the· Mo- hawk Drama Festival, is to be given a characterization that ac- utely, eatirizes the \ in the medical profession. This roll is the one that Moliere himself most liked to per,form. the official approval of the Co- ordinator of Student Activities, Dr. Bennett, and the President of the Student Council. The original num- ber which was to be elected is twenty-three but due to a two- way tie in the class of 1941 vote, one fraternity man to represent the next year's senior class will have to be re-voted upon. The only other solution to the problem is the ap- pointment of one of these men to the next council by some student activity. The men involved in the tie are: Arnold Rathlev who plays varsity baseball and basketball and is a Sigma Chi, and George W. Nor- ris, Jr., the vice-president of the class, varsity football and a mem- ber of Chi Psi fraternity. The men who will definitely rep- resent the fratemity group in the next year's seniot· class are: James Bothwell, a letter-man in both foot- ball and track; holder of the intra- mural boxing championship, and a member o! Psi Upsilon, and Paul V. Mara, a member of the varsity football and lacrosse teams and as- sociated with Delta Upsilon. Non-fraternity Members The non-fratemity group voted Adam F. Ciesinski, a member of last year's football squad; Diamond J. Marotta plays football and base- ball, and John E. Vannier, a mem- ber of the varsity football and bas- ketball squads, as their choice. The class of 1942 elected six fra- ternity and five neutrals to the council. The fraternity group is composed of Robet·t K. Baker, Chi Psi fraternity, vice president of the class and a lettet· man in two sports; Avery Beer, Idol staff and a member of Kappa Alpha; Edward Eustice, Jr., class secretary and var- sity football, who is affiliated with Psi Upsilon; Joseph F. Furlong, Jr., a Beta Theta Pi; Emlen T. Hutch- ins, a member of Delta Upsilon, and Robert Nothacker. The neutral representatives are: Louis A. Dacundo, Abraham B. Dorsman, varsity football; Benja- min Jakubowski, Jr., varsity bas- ketball; Andrew Kay, !do staff and class treasurer, and Roy Webster, also of the Idol ~laff. The present freshman c 1 ass elected Robert T. Horton, Beta Theta Pi; Kenneth Sharpe, Chi Psi, and George Weed for the fraternity group. Harold P. Bodenstab and Robert Shepherd are to be the rep- resentatives Of the non-fraternity group. ---10--- Dr. Ernest J. Berg Speaks To Electrical Engineers Dr. Ernst J. Berg, chairman of the field of engineering at Union L:ollege, made one of his rare ap- pearances a::; a public speaker last night as he addressed a meeting of the student chapter of the Amer- ican Institute of Electrical Engi- neers on the campus. Dr. Berg spoke on \Tl:le Life and Work of Oliver Heaviside,\ who de- vised many of the mathematical formulas which Charles P. Stein- llletz so successfully put into prac- tice. The speaker knew the English mathematician, who was a hermit, personally, having visited him in England. \Heaviside's Operational Calculus\ is one of the four text- Looks written by Dr. Berg which i::- used extensively in the study of electrical engineering. In staging this farce-comedy the Mountebanks will employ th~ee scenes, although the play generally bnly uses two. John T. Boyt, '42, designed the set which is to be con- stntcted by Ralph N. Tiebout, Following Dr. Berg's address, the soc.iety elected officers for the com- ing year. Cecil Angell of Ilion, who was elected president of the class of 1941 Tuesday, was chosen pres- ident, succeeding Donald P. Camp,- bell, '40 of Bloomfield. N. J. The other officers elected last night are: Robert Panoff, '42 of Passaic, N, J., vice-president; William R. Kruesi, '42 of Evanston, Ill., secretary; and ·Conrad E. Bechard, '41 of Cham- plain, treasurer.

i. '' Pag·e Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1940 Qlonrnr !.Reverend EH iott Balch Contrasts To S:peak Sunday Ea.st With West !<'OUNDED 1877 \.·! Causa Persa Parole Assai\ lletnl>er of the .. \.ti~ucittted Cullijs-iate Prt>~::> ~Hid <.li~tributor ·uf tlie ·Cul- legiate Digest. __ _ The official ni:\Wt5IJa.per of thc= :-;tudellls of l.::nion Co1legt-. Pui.Jlh:ht-d Tu•:::-· day aml Fridays throughout the eulleg\ 'eat\. Edlt;Jriltl Itoom8, ;:>illiman Hall·, Cnion Culleg\ Cu.mpu,. ·Tei'epllut!,;. Scenectally, 4-Uln ------- _ Pu!)UcuUon OHiet•, The Uazett\ l'rt:so, 331 State :St .• :-;chellc<\taoly. ::\. t'. Telephn11e 4-4141 l~ntered at tile Sehenedady Po~t offi<\e as Se<\olld Cla>ti :\hl-il ;\lattd\. Sub~cription prh:e Fi\'e c~nt:; a cupy; $3.UO u year; d£;-li\·er~d allY\\·lwi e in the United States. Seni&r Board James E. Twining, Jr •.............................. Editor-in-Chief Chi Ps1 L~ollge--4-U5:!~ Robert R. Eisner ............................... Business Manager K:tpp:t :->u Huus€'--4-73~ 1 Robert S. Schul berg .............................. Associate Editor Phi Sigma .Uelta Hnu::;e-ti-1)7tj;, Paul ·w. Becker ................................... Associate Editor :.!6 ~ I toi.Jin&llll Ht.-G-7~7'; John D. Phillips ..................................... Sports Editor P:;i Up::--i'Jou lluust.,_-1-S71U John P. Lewis ..................................... Editor-at-Large Jack Rabinowitz ................ , ..•....•.... Circulation Manager Phi Sigma lJelta Huu•e-u·Ui6:. R:EPABSC.NTIZD FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N. Y, CHICAGO • BOSTOtl • LOS ANGELES • SAH FftAHCISCO Junior Board Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman Allen Orton Samuel Portnoy Sophomore Board Robert Dake, Robert Bishop. Robert Nemeroff, Granger Tripp, Thomas O'Connor, Richard Watana!Je, Robert Hayner. Arthur Cohen Charles Chase, Everett McCarty, Nerman Fex. ' Robert Allan, Photographic Editor Business Staff David Rosenblum Geotge Lieberman Ha·rold Messenger Justin Perlstein, Stanley Greenstein, Donald Haigh, Laskar Schwartz, Myron Mills. ___ _ Issue Editor ....................................... Samuel Portnoy Assistants Rival Labor Leaders To Discuss Elections On Town Meeting Describes California As a State Divided l,n Customs and Habits \Man's Word and God's\ will be Richard L. Ba:lch, '41, .A:ltadena, the theme of the Rev. Phillips P. Calif, described the eastern part of · Elliott at the services this Sunday the United States as \where the · in Memm·ial ChapeL A graduate of impot·tant opmwns on business, the University of Michigan aond government, and educati\en are Union Theological Seminary, Dr. formed\ in ccntrast to the West Elliott is at present the minister \where a dramatic exaggeration of of the F\irst Presbyterian Church these opinions distort one's eva 1 1Ua- <'!\ Bmoklyn. tion of these Un.ited States.\ Active in church activities and Describing his n.ative state, welfare organ.izations, he is a mem- Balch said that \a pioneer isola-- her of the Committee of Social Uonism still leaves its stamp ef in- Education and Action ef the New dividualism on the presen.t-day York Synod, and a dii-ector of dwellers. Once a man reaches the tTnion The o log i e a 1 Seminary, wilds of this state he was, by ferce • Brooklyn Bureau of Charities, the of miles and mountains, a citizen Erool,lyn Y.MC.A .. and the Packer of an independent country. Not un-· C'ollegialt> Institute til New York was we:J over 200 Organ RPcital · years old did the cities of Califor- After an absence of a week, Dr. nia have a semblance of the pres- Tidmar sh will return to the or·gan, ent-day ... \ this Sunday, to present a progmm Describes Colleges of the werks of Richard Wagner. The program, in four parts, is com- The quarterback on last year's vrist>d of selection» from popular undefeated varsity football team upetas. 'I'hc program: stated that the State of California I. Lohengrin Introduction to the is \deeided.Jy div<ded in itself ... Thil d Act. with the people in the northern sec- I\ohengiin-Prelude. tor l-iving similarly to those of II. Die Walkm't• Fite Magic. Manhattan Island. They have little Die Vllallmre Ride of the time to wonder about how they Valkyries. are going to spend their $30 every III. Tristan and lbolde Pt·elude Thursday or how Joan Crawford and Liebestod. is going to do her hair next month. 1 v. Dif' M('istersingf'l' Introduc- On the other hand, the people of tion to Act III. southern California, in a more or Dit> :11t>istersingt>r Prize Song. Jess tropical region with movie DiE' ·Mt>istt>rsing<>r Dance of actots and actresse,; as thick as the Apprentices. flies, live from hand to mouth .. .'' Town MPPting Balch described the four large in- The 47th in the seril.'s of Town stitutions of learning in the state Meetings will present this Sunday -Stanford, University of Califor- national leadet s of the C.I 0. and nia at Berkeley, University of Cali- Thomas O'Connot Hat·vey Fi~hbone A.F.L. who will discuss \What fornia at Los Angeles, and the l;;;:;:;::;;:;;:;;;;;::;;:;;;;;;;;;::;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;::;;:;;::;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;~~;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;::;;:;;:;::;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;::;;:;::;;:;-;;: should be the role of labor in the University of Southern Califernia ~ ------- coming ptesidcntial election?'' w:here \studying on the beach with Friday, April 26, 1940 Robe 1 ·t J. Watt of Washington, a beautiful young lady on one side D. C., the international labor rep- of you and a physics book (written resentative of the American Fed- by Professor Peter I. W·old of t·t•a:tion of Labor, and James B. Union College) at least open on the STUDENT DEMOCRACY In this era of excitement ove1· dictato1·ship and democ- racy, we are too often constrained to become worried and voluble ove1· event::; occm'l'i ng- in the governments of om· own und other countries and think little of and appreciate Jess the advantag·es accruing to us as students of a liberal arts college which give1\ a large measut·e of self government to its student body. Carey, of New York City, national other ... is not a mere hoax but secretarv of the Committee of In- an. actual method of study .. .'' dustrial · Organization. and presi- dent of the United Electrical, Ra- dio and Machine Workers of Amo>r- ica, will be the discussion leadet s. DENTISTRY The field of t.leutistry today affer>l tn ndltge students an attractive ca- reer. It provides a. wr>rthy irrtelloc- tual <·hall.,;nge, a life of professional sf'rvit·e , .. ,.ith ~atisfactory income, and an OJ>portunity for research and tea<\hing in this divistion uf m<>di~aJ ::-.<'ie-rwe and art. The occasion which bl'ings f01·th this diatribe was the Jack of inte1·est shown by the various classes, especially the Junior class, in nominating men for election to leading posi- tions in their class. Being especially familiar with the 1H'O- ceedings of the class of 1941 in the recent elections we wish to cite said proceedings as an example on which to base our remarks. Freeman's High Quality WALLPAPER PAINT GLASS For Past 142 Years Freeman & Son, Incorporated Phone 4-9155 12-20 Erie Blvd. The lyniversity of Peuns.ylV'dtlia ha• pl-epare<l more th.a.t1 six thousand graduates who are oceupying posi- ti-ons of hnportanl'e in bhe profession through<>Ut tht' worlt.l. Its t·uur~e of instructi·on i8 or th-e highest mder . . \nyone illterlf:'sted in thh~ profes- ::::lion a}; a life 'vork is invited to ap- p1y fot· further informatiou to Dean of the School of Dentistry University of Pennsylvania 40th and Spruce Streets Philadelphia, Pa. The nominations for the pt·esident of next yea1·'s senior~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ class we1·e made last :.\londay. The announcement that the Watch and Jewelry Repairing nomina:tiom; were to be held on that date was made in chapel Engraving on the preceeding- Friday and repeated the next day. Yet when the class meeting was held 15 Juniors were on hand to· JAY JEWELRY CO. make the nominations. Fifteen men to represent a class of COR. STATE and CENTER STS. 179! If that representation is cha1·acteristic of democratic ~;;;~;_;;~;;;;;;;;;~~;_;;~~~~~~~;;;;;;~~~;;;;;;~ government, perhaps we have been misled. Perhaps democ- li racy is not the advantageous ::;~;stern it is claimed to be. This year's response would indicate that approximately 8 per cent of the class of 1941 have enough interest in their class to help decide which of its members are to assume lead- ership throughout their graduating year. It is true, no doubt, that the very same names would have been proposed had the entire class, 179 strong, been present when the nominations were held. To question the non1:ina tions made would be avoiding the issue. We question the advisability of a system which will allow in the future as it ha.s allowed in the past, 15 students to represent an entire class when such issues as class offi- cer nominations are at stake. The fault may lie with the method of announcing the time for the nominations. Chapel announcements are too often disregarded by a squirming unsettled student body and yet other methods of making im- portant announcements pertinent to all students would in- volve undue expense, time and effort. · Thus to strike at the heart of the evil, we suggest that one week of the academic year be designated as the week for the nominations and elections of all class officers. It would be compulsory for the members 0f each class to meet dur- ing the assembly hours of that week to discuss the choice of men for nomination and it would be likewise compulsory for the students to be present on the day of their particular class elections. The purpose of this \enforced democracy\ is not to add more regulations to the college statutes, but merely . to make the student body realize that it is the duty of each student to participate in the nominations of the men whom he feels have the necessary qualifications to be elected to positions of leadership. -P. W. B. PINE GROVE DAIRY. Inc. 61 ERIE BLVD. (~~1}![•]~ PHONE 4·7741 Today-Last Times-2 Hits \OF MICE AND MEN\ Burg·e\ J!He<lith, !Ietty Fi<•hl Also \CURTAIN CALL\ POSITIVELY 4 DAYS ONLY -STt-A ___ R_T-:1-N-:G-:--T-O_M ___ O_R~R.-0-:-W-=--' SATURDAY! CALENDAR Today 4 · 3J p. m. ---Varsity BasebalL Union vs. Rochester a:t Schen- . ectady. -Meeting of Association of American Col-leges. Saturday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, . Rev. WiHard E. Rice. 26 Annual Prizes Awarded Students Dr. John March Speaks 0-n Invention of Press A+ Chapel Exercises (Continued frem Pa;ge 1) 2:30 p.m.--Varsity Lacrosse. Union vs. Lafayette at Schen· ectady. ' . Kilmer, the Rich prize, and the Kruesi self-improvement award. 2:30 p.m.-Varsity TraclL Union vs. Vermont at Burlington. 2:30 p. m.-Freshman Lacrosse. Uni<m vs. Burr and Burton . Academy at Manchestet•, Vt. . 2:30 p. m.-Varsity Tennis. Union · vs. Haverford, at Haverford. 2:30 p. m.-Meetin.g of Assecia· tion of American Colleges. Sunday 11:00 a. m. -Sunday Service. PI eacher, Rev. Phillip Elliot. 3:15 p. m.-Town. Meeting of the Air in Old Chapel. .• :00 p. m.- -Organ Recital by Dr. Tidmarsh in Memorial Chapel. Monday ti:OO p. m. -Public Speaking Class in Old ChapeL 7:30 p, m. -Band Rehearsal in Gymnasium. Tuesday 10:00 a. m.--Daily Assembly. Mr .. Stephen Fr·itchman. 1:00 p. m.-Glee Club Rehearsal in Hanna Hall. 1:30 p. m.-Record Concert in Memoria·! Chapel. 4:30 p.m.-Varsity Baseball. Unien vs. Srracuse at Schen- ectady. 7:30 p. m.--Chess Club Meeting in Civil Engineering Building. PLACEMENT NOTICE Mr. Barney Nudelman of the Con- necticut Mutual Life Insurance Company wiU lead a Placement dis- cussion at 1 p. m., Tuesday, April 30, in Stillman Hall. Following thP general discussion Mr. NudeJmo.n will conduct personal interview> at 1:45 p, m. Headquarters for The other prizes and their win- ners at Wednesday's ceremonies are as foJilows: Sop'homere Ful'ler Prize in Chemistry, to a student in the chemistry division, Robert W. Dav- ison; the Richmcnd Prize in Fine Arts, <$50) awarded for excellence in Fine Arts to .Joseph J. An.nese, '40; the Richmond Prize in Mu- sical Appreciati-on <$50) award~d for excel'lence i-n the course in Mu- sic Appreciation to Chester H. Reb- inson, '40, and Edmund G. Kelly, '41, the Freling H. Smith Prize in History, <$50), awarded to the sen- ior whe submits the best thesis in. history to G. Bailey Stone, '40, The Sternfteld Philosophical P r i z e <yearly interest on $1,000) awarded to senior who submits best original essay in .philosophy to Rebert R. Eisner, '40, an.d the Van Orden Prize, a monetary prize awarded partly in books and partly in money to the member ef the fresh- man class for excellence in Engl-ish Cempositicn, to Granger Tripp, '43. The Horowitz prize in building construction divided between Lewis W. Hallenbeck and Eugene S. Mc- Kenna; The Pullman prize in En- gineering awarded to Allden F. Mullins; the James Henry Turnbull prize in physics went to Sanford Thompson and the third Allison prize in debating was awarded to John Ruskowski. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality li'ood-Always Open One step from State St. Shirts THIS LECTURE WILL CONSIST OF A FEW CUTTING REMARKS The smartest looking fabric in the world doesn't make a style-right shirt unless it's cut right. That's why Man- hattan exercises minute care in laying out .patterns and plying shears. Monhattan Shirts are stream- lined for youth ... shaped to body lines. Collars ore cut with coreful balance. Col- ored or white, Manhattans are right. SHIRTS If any Manhattan Shirl ever shrinks below the indi· caled size, we will give you a new shirt. Tested and approved by the American Institute of Laundering. SHIRTS • PAJAMAS· HANDKERCHIEFS· SPORTSWEAR I tio spc thE ba! en< est FiE un tea mo an< ag; the a: is en< wi1 Ha ( ing ba:1 of for beE \s} em inE da: ma fin thE ag: Co fir: sec an- at Re o;ec Ga eat l pa wi wi Co be: AI H< l by me fie ha es~ ha ca· cu thl Dt th' of :!I - - - - - - - a - - - ~

the are the nee Mu- Mu- e in sen- s h1· The i z e R. in '43. ewis Me- En- F. to I THE CONCORDIENSlS, FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1940 Page Three ,fQUR GARNET TEAMS SEE ACTION THIS WEEKEND Dutchmen Hope ~o Play First Ball ·Vermont , Plays Varsity Stickmen Game to Date W1th Rochester Today Host to Tra·ckTeam Meet Lafayette I has been in other years, being built mainly around six returning letter- men. So far this season they have lost game::J te Pennsylvania and Kraut's J u>t around the eorner on Eastern A venue La.wrence Looks for Close Game as Yellowjackets • , • Bnng Veteran Team to Town; Mould to Pitch l111 Opening Meet On Ltbrary f1eld Four varsity teams wiH see ac-~ tion this weekend. as the spring Ulrech has hung up a fine record sports schedule gets under way on in two seasons of varsity pitching, the home fro.nt. Al't Lawrence's but an operation this winter has baseball team IS first on the week- weakened him and at present his end card when they face the Roch- effectiveness as a moundsman is an Catamounts Hold Edge in Sprint Events; Union Strong in Field ester Yellowjackets on Alexandet· unknowa quantity. F'eld th' ft t 4 30 0 s Coach Bill Ketz has had his I IS a ernoon a : · n at- Receiving Ulrech'E offerings wiH urda'' afte1·noon Bill K t • t tiackmen working out .regularly • J • e z s earn be Pete Strange~. a veteran of three team me t th V t C t this wee!; in preparation for the ap- . · e s e ermon a a- seasons. Three other vetrans are mounts at Burlington, Vermont_, bolsterJ·n·g the RochesteJ' 1 .. nfiel\ preaching meet with the University d th I ff \' of Vermont track team tomorrow an . e acrossemen s.quare 0 with Geisle1· at first fo1· h·l·\ th·t'I·d t th L f t k ~ afte1·noon on the Catamount:;' cam- again~ · e ?- ayette s IC ;nen on· campaign. Del Rayson at second the Llbt·~ry .Field: The tenz:ls team and the brilliant Bob Collett at pus. The proposed fotn··way meet also begms. Its SCLledute this week_-. short\ton. Coach Alexan\el' ha\ with Middlebury, R. P. I., Vermont d h 1 p ~ \' - and Union for this weekend did not e~ w en tt tra'.'e s to ennsylvama . posted Glen Quaint, a sophomore, materialize a:; the Vermont authori- wlth matches Wit_h .Swarthmor.e and at third. Quaint was a star on the H f d F da d s t d ties did not approve of the plan. aver OI' on rl Y an a ur ay. Yellowjackets' yea,r.Ji.ng squad last Ve1mont ha~ a strong team this . Coac;h Lawrence has beer: ~end- year as a catcher but has been mg .his baH .club .through. mtense shifted to the hot comer this sea- year and in face of their strength battmg practice this week m hopes son. in the running events, Coach Ketz of strengthening his team's attack is not viewing the meet too optom- flo1· the Rochester tilt. Time has also Rochester has the veteran Reg istically. Dashe,; are the strong been devoted to bunting, sliding and Oliver patroling the leftfield po- point of the Vermr>nt squad with \skull sessions,\ but most of the ::itlon. Oliver has been slowed up Gordie Smith and Bill Nichols bear- emphasis has been on slugging with. this season due to football injury ing the brunt in the 100-yard and instructions to hit away. On Thurs- but reports are that he can still belt 220. day afternoon the varsity scrim- the horsehide a goodly distance. maged the freshmen squad as a Bill and Bob Springer have received final tuneup for today':: game. the nod for the center and right Union Lineup Lawrence announced today that the starting lineup to take the field against the Yellowjackets will be Co-captain Charlie Brockner· at first, Ned Reilly or AI Turchick at second, Mickey Rathlev at short and Bob Garnett or Fred Chesebro at third. Lawrence indicated that Reilly and Turchick will share the ,;econd base assignment while Bob Garnett and Chesebro will probably each play half the game at third. In the outfield, Fred Patrie will patrol centerfield, Earl Raifstanger will be in left, while Moe Weintraub will take up his post in right field. Co-captain Harry Palmer will be behind the plate to receive lanky fi<>1d assignments. Union Rochester Reilly or W. Springer . r.f. Turchick ... 2b. Ulrech ........ p. Ganet or Stranges ...... c. Chesebro ... 3b. R. Springer .. c.f. Patrie ....... c.f. Collett ....... s.s. Brockner .... lb. Oliver ......• r.f. Rathlev ...... s.s. Geisler ....... lb. Palmer ........ c. Rayson ...... 2b. Raifstanger .. l.f. Quaint ....... 3b. Weintraub ... r.f. Mould ........• p. --·-0--- Freshman Game With Amsterdam Cancelled AI Mould's slants with \Swede\ Ol' Man Weather is taking his Hanson in the bullpen. toll on freshmen sports as well as Rochester has been handicapped the varsity teams as it was an- by lack of practice this spring, nounced Wednesday by the ath- most of their sessions being in their· letic department that the scheduled fieldhouse. The April showers which game between the freshmen base- have forced the Dutchmen to fin- ball team and Amsterdam High es;:e two contests so far this spring, School to be held on Alexander have forced the Yellowjackets to Field tomorrow afternoon has been can<:el their opening tilt with Syra- cancelled. cuse, so both teams will be playing The poor condition of the Carpet their opening game this afternoon. City ball field has made it impossi- Rochester Veterans ble for the high school team to have Rochester's hopes to subdue the any practiCe out-of-doors and upon Dutchmen this afternoon rest on the request of the Amsterdam of- the arm of lanky Bob Ulrech, king ficials the contest has been can- of the Yellowjackets' hurling carr· celled. Gazette Press Cats Sti·ong The Cats are also well manned in the mile run with an experienced group from the cross-country team, the Web;;ter brothers, Dick Clark and Corliss. These men should pro- vide an interesting race against Union',; Bill Johnson, Brad Hast- ings and Doc Maines. The men participating for Union against Vermont will be Ericson, Smith and En~tice in the 100; Eric- son, Muther and Baao; in the 220; Bothwell and Muther in the 440; Robin~on, O'Neil, Hoffman and Col- lins in the 880; Johnson, Maines and Hastings in the mile: Melewicz and Conly in the two-mile; Plummer in the high hurdles; Bothwell, low hurdles; Smith, Morrison and Plummer in the high jump; Mor- rison and Senn in the pole vault; Smith, D'Acundo and Hutchins in the broad jump; Bodenstad, Giesin- ski and Shaw in the shotput; Bod- enstad and Shaw, discus, and Brit- tin and Merson in the javelin. PARAMOUNT PETE'S 22 Church St. Ph. 1613 \TOPS in SARATOGA\ for Union Dates Featuring the NEW Marine Room Completely Renovated Come in and Enjoy Yourself Harkness Predicts First Win Since 1 38 For Lacrossemen Coach Bill Harkness finally left the wailing wall yesterday and tossed out the predictl!m that the Dutchmen will hand Lafayette a de- feat tomorr·ow afte1·noon for their . fi1 st victory for a Dutchman la- crosse team in 10 starts. The la~t ti-me one of his squads won a game was in 1938 when Joe Paul led a spirited rally that upset Williams, 11-10. Last year's squad lost seven st1·aight and so far this year·, two games have been played and lost to Hobart and· Swa1·thmore. Coach Har·knes::J stated that if hia squad plays the same calibre game they did at Swarthn'!.OJ'e they wil'l win out over Lafayette. Harkness had been holding daily practice ses- sions on Liberty Field with the at- tack men opposing the defense men in scrimmages in an attempt to strengthen the defense and sharpen the offense. As lack of practice and shortage of seasoned substitutes played a large role in Union's earlier defeats, Coach Harkness has been paying a lot of attention to several prom-ising sophomores on the squad. Union Lineup With a lot of practice outside and the experience gained from two games. Harkness feels his team has rounded into shape and only needs a few breaks to chalk one up in the win column. He plans to start the same team tha:t lost to Swarthmore last week. Dud Holmes will start in the goal, Nothacke1· at point; Passe at center point; Newton first de- fense; Mara, second defense; Qui- bert at center: Ostrander first at- tack; \Vard, second attack; Fay out home; Stillman, in home. Lafayette ;s not \-S strong as it Douw F. Beekman Gasoline - Brake Service U. S. Tires- Motor Tune-up Exides • Lubrication e Let Us Prepare Your Car for Winter 601 UNION ST. Open Until II P. M. Printers YOU GET THESE EXTRAS with our ~11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111,!:: = = - - ~ At The I - - - - - - - - ~ UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE ~ - - = = - - = = § • COMPLETE LINE of CARDS § - - - - = For Mother's Day-May 12 : e GIFTS for YOUR PROM DATE College Seal Jewelry e SPORT WEAR T-Shirts Corduroy and Gabardine Sport Jackets I ;,:~o~;· :~~~::o;~~~ CAP and GOWN I - - - - - - - - - - ~ lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli: ARROW TRUMP SHIRT EXT.ftA. SMARTNEss Arrow h Atnerica's is he.en coUar-lllak avorue Years A er for 77 .bas ~ rrow TI'UJnp Jored Pell rfectl:r taj. co ar. Only$2 Come in today and get thi9 extra special shirt Swa1·thmore. Lafayette lays both of its defeats to a green defense and lack of cooperation in a poorly functioning attack. (luallty Ice Cr-eam Light Lun~hes OPE:\' TILL ~IID:'\'IGH'l' Ice-cold Coca-Cola is all pure refreshment. Its taste satisfies completely and a refreshed feeling fol- lows that leaves you want· ing nothing more. THAT REFRESHES Bottled under authoritY of The Coca·Cola Co. by SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTI'LING COMPANY . .,. · .. Yf.···,. \. T: . · .. ... ·. \\' The best way to set off a coat of tan ARROW SPORT SHIRTS are actually tailored rl. like a coat. Their easy drape allows plenty of elbow room and adds loads of smart• ness to your summer get-up. Casually correct and conservative, these sen- sibly cut and sewn Arrow sports shirts are free from doodads, gadgets or wild patterns. They're color fast and washable ... Sanforized- Shrunk, fabric shrinkage less than 1%. Your local Arrow dealer has a big stock. $2 up. ARROW SHIRTS . ·' !

Page !''our Tennis Team Plays\ In Pennsylvania 1 Schedul·e Haverford, Swarthmore Matches; Ralston, Miller Singles The tennis ieam Jpft yeste1 day tor a two day 1·oad trip in Pf'nn- ,..ylvania Btart'ing tuday with the last tPnnis n1n:tch of ~t.!H· ~t'~l~on with Swarthmot <'. Tlw llttak·•n; Wl'le defeated by the Um\·ersity uf Pl•nnsvlvania !1-11, Lut th<· fad that they. haV(' had mun· practice and a nH'e:t Bo far this BL·a.:.;un 111ay mean tha•t th<'y ha\'<' tht• cdg .. on thf' Dutchmen. Thl' second day till' ll'ant lL·av<·, !OI' Haverford fot ttw \\\\nd game of the weekend. Ha \'erfonl ha.;; also p'layPd thei·r urst gam .. ami has thP experit•nct• of a It ip t.o t.hl' lo'Outh whPre they played and t!e- fpat,•d \\'illiam and \lary. and los.: to the UnivPt siOPs of \'it gima. :\orth Cato1ina and Hichmond. ln <'pit!' of the placti<'P a.nd <'Xpt•ri- ence, the Union !Pam may han• the edge> on thP Ford ttPtmPtL 'l'hP lim•up that lt•ft yestPrd»y i~ as follov;s: in thP ~ingl'ps alt· Tom Ral~tnn. lloll'-! Sc·ha·tton. !~eorg<' ::V1iH••r, J, .. lanct 1-lPtk. Cia!'· t'I1C'<' V'.'oodwanl and Phtl Pot.t<-t. In tht• ctouh!Ps will bt' Ralston :md ~!il!Pr. Rchatton 0 and Swat t anct 1 HPik and PottPr I'HOFI( IE:\'C\' TJo:~T!-0 I Pt·uiicient\ ~l'tit:; tn Gt·I·nuln .\llt'; I Ft t)nch wi·!:l b(· ;...;.: \'t•tl un ~It~ntla~. \lay li. 3 tu li !• Ill it: Baile)' !!.1::.1 Room 110 Tht· :\lodl'l·ll Lan;~ua.g,· Ftdd dt: 1 .ha.t:;i:t.t·~ tht· ial·t that ~lnt·~ th, :-.t l xarninatlun~ r-t>lt·ast• :-;tudt>nts frD!l\ tlll' t\\U Vt'Ul lanr.:,ua~·· Inlllilt'rllt·nt. they tihdutd only lw att•·mpt .. d h) ~tudent:- \'1~h t·X.L't'(d Io~tt.tl l'' t'J\t: :1 tion who ha\'t· dutt< We >I k l'lt·,t·t ly abuvt· thl· a\\t.'tagt· in Ftt·nch:..! a1~d Ue1 man 2. Stuc..lt>n~~ v... ho h·tvt> J!It·- viuu~ly :;hown ],.,, atultt~ tha11 t.l11·1 ~tat.H.!artl indilatt·d ahn\'t·. h~ll .\'\t~o dt'!\>llt' tu pa~:-. tht· t,- .... t ......... L,.u,d . .~J,, tht•lll only if tht'Y h:t\\t plt: ·llt d '-f'll ou• additwn:.ll \I Ud) All \tudrnt\ who wi•h I•• talw tit\\\ lt':-1• \dll lond!) infol!ll til~ officP. C. F t ;,\HIS. llt•an. Products for Better Quality I Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 GENERAL ICE CREAM CORPORATION JAMES RESTAURANT WE CATER TO UNION STUDENTS AND THEIR GUESTS 420 STATE ST. -I Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Plea.sant Valley Food Market \Quality - Service Satisfoction\ OU,R MOTTO 598 Broadway For Better Values THE CONCORDlENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1940 C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optom<'trist Eye:> l·:xatllltt<\d. l;la~,,·s l<'1tt~d 115 B'wa~ Tt'lephon.- 6-oN 7 ThrP!' ! luul s !'rum ::>tate St. ! ~-FREIHOFERS ·.1 GOLD'S I IALWAYS POPULAR. 1 Restaurant • Tap Room Delicatessen • BREAD - CAKE ROLLS Dally Delivery Direct +o Your Heme TEL. 6·4224 I I -1 & 7 for building health in rnind: and body Amsterdam Dairy MILK 2 glasses before retiring Repeat Daily Phone 6-2351 for Daily Delivery The Latest In Charles Holtzman & Son. Inc. 259 STATE ST. • 1n the Slot The Man N INETEEN MINUTES before a big city newspaper's first <:dltion goes to prt!ss. Page by page, a swry ~t.trt~ coming across the city editor's desk. The city editor reaches for his phone, calls the m.tke-up editor in the composing room. \How we doingi'\ he asks. \This City Hall story looks pretty hot.\ \We're going to be tight. Keep it down,\ warns the make-up editor. \'V;le can't squeeze the Wash- ingron story another inch.\ \Okay responds the city editor. He looks at the pen<.:i'led layout for Page One, scribbles some Jig- ur\' in the upper corner of the sheet of copy. and with an expert twi~t lends it sailing onto the big horse~hoc de~k next to his own. \\\'e're tight. Mac,\ he calls to the man in the slot. \Cut it a third.\ .. S~:\ en teen minutes now to the deadline ... only ten ti>r cutting. editing, headline-writing. For those vital ten minutes. the responsibility rests on the ~houlders of the man in the !>lot ... newspaper par- lance fi>r the head of the copy desk. r\ doLen considerations flash their chain light· ning patterns across the slot man's mind. Tyler's story ... 'l} ler the brilliant and touchy. He got it out of that cenain municipal department which is gi' ing oil' a faintly gamy odor. The boss will want it in all editions. Thi; isn't the big break though, jll'>t another build-up to it. l)amn good story ... real stuff in every paragraph. Hard to cut. Needs a head- line with sock. Who's to rhandle it? Ward's fooling around with that zoo story •.. ~·on't do, his cuts make 'lyler sC:>re. Colihan's a better bet. ''Celihan,\ says the man in the slot. One of the furious· pencil-wielders around the rim of the horse- shoe looks up. \Cut this a third and put a thirty-six head on it in time for the bulldog.\ All this has used up fifteen seconds. Colihan has nine and a half minutes to cut and edit and write a top headline and sub-headline. Every line of both headlines must count exactly so many characters and spaces, figuring i as a half and m and w one and a half characters. Then the slot man will take just fifteen seconds more to review Colihan's work, change \banned\ to \curbed sniff the whole concoction for traces of libel, and shoot it to the news editor in the compos- ing room. It is a shorter story than Tyler's original, and a better one-keener of edge, swifter of impact, yet complete in every essential detail. ,... The slot is not a glamorous job. It hasn't been discovered by Shubert Alley or the fiction maga- zines. To the cub reporter, eager for by-lines and self-expression, the whole copy desk looks like a backwater. It takes maturity-grasp of the whole art of news presentation-to appreciate the little miracles that a good copy desk passes. ~ Among the men who write and edit The Weekly Newsmagazine, the man in the slot and the men on the rim are held in greater re- spect, perhaps, than in their own city rooms. For more tl:ian any other newspapermen in the business, TIME men write with the consciousness that they must cut, prune, hone, concentrate, and distil. The fight against the clock is not so desperate on a weekly, but the battle for each line of space is many times fiercer, And the raw material for each issue is mountain-high ... product of TIME's own 75 correspondents, 500 news scouts, and the 100,000 correspondents and reporters of all the na- tion's newspapers and wire services, throughout a whole week of the world's activities. ..,. Journalism in the U.S. A. pours out millions of words each week; TIME's limit is some thirty thou- sand. And when every word must do the work of a dozen, it needs to be a better word, and more eco- nomically joined to its fellows. Nouns must paint landscapes, adjectives must do portraits, verbs must shoot straight. Each story in TIME must be direct, keen, com- plete; each story must earn its place as an essential link b understanding the world's news of the week. ,... TIME has developed the art of news condensation, as practiced by the slot men and rim men of the dailies, to a new high. For every issue of TIME is \tight\- its limit that irreducible minimum of news every intelligent man and woman must know. Which is one reason why TIME has won the genuine devotion of 700,000 busy families-with their ranks growing deeper every week. This is one of a series of advertisements in which the Editors of TIME hope to give College Students a clearer picture of the world of news- gathering, news-writing, and news-reading-and the part TIME plays in helping you to grasp, measure, and use the history of your lifetime as you live the story of your life. TIME 0 z. S· El V\ 'I cil mo ele1 yea by cha cat a de tar tiv1 Thi sid1 me her rep ne> C01 Bc1 Act 'I der sta foil Bot Pa1 Ad Ma tra Ba stic Hu Ira Ab: .Jal We Ro anc Ha Sh1 I mo nit: of No ele tw1 'I ass fic1 am tut stu 'l'h> for anc pUI F the ser ha1 wil me ha, clu rna thE Go ety I hat of old mo sto far an ba1 tot= 1 evE AI! TO\ th~ thl ish ear a bat sue C01 soc far mt trc mt thl tO\ bo me be1 is nu rec

Ph ilomatheans . u . Science Studenls Conclude To Hear Debate Season Dr. Langmuir Z.-511 Vol. LXI:II., No. 51 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 1940 PRICE FIVE CENTS Student Council Elects Officers Wednesday Night Norris Wins Election For Last Council Post This 'Morning in Chapel The newl·y ·E'Iected Student Coun- cil will hold its fi.rst meeting to\ mon ow e:veBing for the put po~e of electing officer>' fat· the coming yea-r, it was announced last ni·ght by Louis J, Can, '40, outgoing chairman of the body. Carr indi- cated that the body is to elect, in addition to a chairman, a Srcr e- tary, and a Treafurer, the Execu- tive Committee of the new CounciL I This committee is compcsed, be- sides the officers of the body, of a member from the activities, a mem- ber of the fratemity group~. a t•epre<entative 0f the neutmls, the newly named Cnai.rman of the Tax Committee, and Dr. William W. Bennett, Coordinator of Student 1 Activities. Council Mt>mbrrs 'What the Campus Reads' Neu• Junior Board Task There was a reason lor thos! four t·athet harrassed lookinlo individua·ls wandel'ing ar0unc tne campus Ft·iday evening anc Saturday morning, !aden dowr with c:opies of The Concordien· s i s, s e v era 1 mime0grapheu sheets, colored pencils, a::; well a~ the uthel' pataphernalia ol \consensus take·rs.\ They were the members of the paper's Jun· ior Board, known in commor parlance a~ \J~unior Boan slaves\ and they wet:e met·ely fulfilling- still another mission that had been heaped upon their weary, but stiH unbending shoul· ders. \Time\ magazine is sponsot- ing a poll on the campuses of 51 ~el(•cted collegl':; in the United S~ate\ to determine ju:;t what in the way af ne\!-s· sto- ri.Ps, fpatur <'s, and ad~:vetise· ments in th<' vat ious coH<\gc pub- lications that the stud !!fitS ac· · tually read. The four Junim· Boa! det·s w<'re merely the means to this end, marking down on their copies of The Connord·ien· sis t];p \'arious stories~ and ad· vertisPments that the students had read. Those who will make up the Stu- I dent Council fot· 1940-1941 in the I status of members-at-large are the \• following: Class of 1941 -- James 1 '----------------' Bothwell, Richard Griffiths, and , h ~~~~ VF. ~~;:i~sl~::at~~i~~nd anJ I Fntc man Urges Marotta, Pnd John E. Vannier, neu- 1 trale. Class of 1942 - Robett K.l Lt\v~·ng .l·n Present Bake·r, Avery Beer, Edward En- I · stice, Joseph Furlong, Emlen T., Hutchins, and Robert Nothacker, traternity; and Louis A. D'Acundo, I Abt·aham Dorsman, Benjamin : .Jakabowslli, Andrew Kay, and Roy j Webster, neutrals. Class of 1943 1 Robert T. Horton, Kenneth Sharpe, · Unitarian Executive Asserts Life Frontiers Are as Yet Unattained and George Weed, fraternity; and Urging the present-day college Harold Bodensta-b, and Robert man to \live in the present,\ Rev. Shepherd, neutral.s. Stephen H. Fritchman, executive In the election in chapel this director of the Unitarian Youth morning for the remaining frater· Commission, speaking in daily as- nity position of the Senior Board sembly this morning, concluded the of the Student Council, George week-end youth program of the Norris, Jr. was elected. In Friday's Mohawk Valley Conference of Uni- election there had resulted a tie be- tail an Churches, held these past tween Norris and Rathlev. few day:o in Schenectady. The new Student Council is both Citing a popular mazagine adver- assuming office and electing its of- tisement which shows an elderly ficers early in connection with the man in ease and comfort with the amendments to the body's Constl- question \Will you be like this at tution which were pas~;ed· .by the 65?\ written below the picture, the student body meeting last Monday speaker stated this was probably The amendments piovided chief.ly far from the truth. \If you are for ·earlier election of the officers happy today,\ he said, \you will be and members of the body for the happy when you are older.\ purpose of \greater continuity\. l:!y true happineso;. the speaker Representatives from but five of explained, he did not mean \Wine the eleven activities to be repre- women and song.\ Rather, true :;en ted on the new Student Council happiness i<' the ability ''to get have been thus far selected, and along with your friends .... Life wil,l be present at tomot·row night's I is a grand and glorious adventure meeting. The activities men who 1 ... with new frontiers to be opened, have been named to the Council in- new explorations to be made.\ elude Arthur Davis for the \Fresh- Religion, Mr. Fritchman pointed man Record;\ Clarence McCain for . out, must also take its place in the the Christian Association, and Boyd I present, not the future. \There is Golder for the Philomathean Soci- no need to bother about heaven or ety. , its altet·native,\ he said. Metropolitan Baritone Advocates Production of Opera in English The advi\ability of wide-spread~ m:Gduction of grand opera in Eng-' . E 1 . h b . d t t d j· ·h . ·b · 't h' h h , 1 m ng 18 · ' e enc~urage , s a e 1 ~ · a :m Jec upo.n w. 1 ? t. ete s that he realized that the diction of 'A rde dtfference of opmwn m the . . thP >Ing<>r must be perfected even mu~t~a<J w~t·ld, has a strong advo- at the expen'e of the vocal line. He cate 1n Ju!tu~ ~euhn, ~etropol!tan said that he be!leves that \defects Opera A>soctahon bantone, who . wHI ~ing ll1 Memorial Chapel on of vocal pruduct:on are more tha? Frida\ evening Ma, 10 in a ,; e- pard for by the tact that t~~ audt- . ~ ' ~ .' p ence 1s able to under:;tand. ct<d gzft concert tor Unwn College. Heuhrl', who ha~ ;:;ung twenty op- eratic wles in English, will be the third Metropolitan Opera smger to pr·e,ent such a concert here in re- cent years. Fdedrich Schurr and Lauritz Melchior will have pre- celled him. In a 1 ecent uew;spaper interview, Heuhn attributed the feeling again•t opera in Engh•h to !'>OOI' tt·ansiatiuns and. said that in thi:; particular !ic!J, ther~e is very much still to be aceumplbhell. ·'To my mind,\ :;aid the baritone, \opera should be a gcod shuw and good entertainment. It :;huuld nut be looked upon in the same way that one considers a ::;ymphony con- cert. In opera, one ha:; various arts, the \inging the music <>f the orchestra, painting. good costumes and acting, all combining to make a good show.\ l-ontinuing, Heuhn said that in foreign countries, opera is pt oduced in thl' native tongul' except un oe- casion,; when artists from other ccuntries give guest pPrfot mancl'~. Heuhn, in advocating that opera Dr. Langmuir to Address Science Students Tonight Dr. Ir·ving La.ngmuir, winner of the Noble Prize in Chemistry in, 1932, Honorary Fellow in the Phys- ical Sciences at Umon College and Associate Director of Research fo1· the General Electric Company, will' make the first appearance before students of the college of his four- day stay on the campus tonight at 7:30 when he meets chemistry and phy;;ics students to discuss certain aspects of these two fields of study. Dr. Langmuir began his stay yes- terday at a luncheon with the staff and student body of the physics de- partment. Dr. C. V. Strain, In- structor in Physics, presented a paper on \Nuclear Physics\ at the meeting. The 1 est of Dr. Langmuir'~ stay on the campus will be taken up by talks to members of the faculty and the student body on a variety of topics. He will speak to the fac- ulty conceming his research work at the General Electric Company Laboratories in the physics lecture room tomorrow at 4:30 p. m. His topic at this time will be \Mi:;ocel- laneous Observations of Natural Phenomena\ and the lecture will be open to all interested in the sub- ject. A gr·eat renaissance uf opeta is predicted fur this country by the 1\lett·opotitan bar·itone, who believes that upet a in better English ver- siOns of standard works , huuld be aclupted for the small hall. He feels that the Mett·opulitan Upera btoad- casts have hetped cunstdetably to make this count I y more opeta- cun.=,ciuu:;, us have the spt ing tours ot this organization. H•._,uhn, whu\c rnc-Pt utn recital will be ft ee to studenb, fac:ulty and officers uf the college and their guests, has been especially effective in the vVagnet·ian operas. He has sung the role of V. otan in \Die \Vatkme · fur seve I al :;easons with the Metropolitan. Among hb other petfunnances have been Jokanaan in \Salome the T01eador in \Carmen\ and the title rolP in \Gianni Schicchi.\ Be- ,ides his connection with the New York opera gt·oup, he has been fea- tur .. d with the Chicago City Opera, the Philadelphia Ope t·a, the San F'r ancisco Opel a and the Los An- geles Opera. Educators Urge General Training Rappleye Advocates Balanced Curriculum As Conference Closes Dr. Willard C. Rappleye, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at Co- lumbia Universitr, advised a more balanced curricul urn for college students preparing for medical studies, as he joined Dr. Russell D. Niles. professor of law at New York University, and Dr. Leonard Carmichael, President of Tufts College, in the final d,iscussion ses- sion of the 25th annual I egional conference of the American Asso- ciation of Colleges on the campus Saturday. A luncheon at Hale House Saturdar noon concluded the conference. General Education Urgl'd \The college preparation for medical studies should be devoted to general rather than largely sci- ence education,\ Dean Rappleye said. \The college preparation should not be regarded as pre-pro- fessional . . but the culmination of gene I al education.\ Miller's Rise From Farmhand To Top Band Leader Is Story That Would Have Delighted Horatio Alger Dr. Niles also ·agreed that col- leges should have \a minimum of interference or regulation by pro- fessional schools\ and Dr. Car- michael maintained that three im- pO! tant factors must be taken into consider·ation in attempting to work out a proper ai ticulation be- tween co!Iege work and wor·k in a 0--·---------- ------ It's too bad that Horatio Algier had to leave off writing his tales of \From Farm to Fame,\ because old Horatio would have been the most 'logical choice to write the story of Glenn Miller's r·ise from farm boy to \behind the scenes\ arranger and style setter for bands and finally to leader of the top popular band in 1940 America. The leader of the Prom band was· even born in a town whose name ' Alger would have loved-Clarinda.: Iowa. And. according to the style I that Horatio fait·hfully followed ' through many reams of very per- I ishable prose, Miller evinced an • early ta!ent for music. He bought! a second-hand trombone-much ~ battered--out of his earnings from 1 such after school choree as milking ' cows for two dollars a week. But soon after, the desire for a pair of fancy shoes ovevcame his love ?f music, causing Miller to trade his trombone for the shoes. After this temporary halt in his musical career, be bonowed from the local tailor, a member of the town's brass band, another hom- bone in return for milking still more cows. Glenn's first remem- bered experience as a trombonist is that he \nearly drove father nuts with practicing.\ His second recollection is getting into hot Vocalists for junior Prom MARION HUTTON wuther with his high school princi- pal, who caught him skipping classes to practice. Glenn went to the University of Colorado after his graduation from high school. There he was a mem- ber of Sigma Nu, but had little time RAY EBERLE ------- ----~~ for house or college a~tivitie~. df'- voting his time to earning board and room by playing in the college \jazz\ band. By the time he had graduated from college, Miller had become a (Continued on Page 4) professional school-namely, \ideal end results, the shortness of hu- -·an life and individual differ- ,_' P 3\ Tl:e three educators were in 1'~Ieerr.ent on the fundamental is- sue-- that college em ricula toda) 'ack t' \propet· balance.\ The tv<:o-day conference opened last Fz iday with a discussion in !li Chapel on \Social Security\ and ·:s rc':ltionship to A me I ican col- 'p·,es and universities, led by Pres- 'c1en: Clifton D. Gray of Bates Col- 'ege and President W. E. Weld of Wei's College. Dr. Weld gave the -,a iority viewpoint which holds 'hat co'leges should support the V/alsh ,\mendment to the social se- eu• ity act which is ·now before the Senate Finance Committee. Fdday night Dr. James T. Shotwell, pro- fessor of international relations at Columbia University, s.poke on \The World Scene'' at a dinner meeting of the conference In Hf!,le House. Dr. Shotwell asserted that \if Germany wins the present Euro- pean confliCt, we cannot maintain the 'American Way' of life.\ The conference has been spon- sored for the· purpose of \promo- tion of higher education in all of (Continued on Page 4) .:::. ' JJ!ountebanks' Star Mli!!S BETH WALSH Moliere/ s Farce Opens On Friday Comedy Illustrates That Bread and Wine Are Cure for Dumbness How \bz-~ad and plenty of wine at·e the surest cut·e for dumbne;s\ is illu~lt a:ted in the production of Moliere's \The Doctor in Spite of Himself\ for· w:hich the Mounte- banks are holding dres~ rehea·rsals. First pt esentation of th-is seven- teenth century comedy, t·hat is the _,r·oup's final production of the sea- ->on, will be on Friday evening, May 3. It will also be presented Satur- day, May ! , and again on the fol- 10wing :·~turday, May 11, before .the Juttict· Prom begins. Play Retains Old Humor The Exec:.. t we Committee of the drambtie group, in an advance statement on the productior., indi- ca• Pa that Ed ward L. Can·oll is di- rectir.g 1 he play with full at·,ention t<' all the humorous by-play for which the unabtidged production is famoue. The play that the Mounte- banks will ·present is expected to ha\''' a typical French gusto which io rare!) seen outside of the pro- feP\tonal t·heatre Moliere concerns himO'elf with the cuing~ of Sganarelle, an ec<:.,ntr i'! woodchopper, who is forced into the role of ph> sician. Using the knife edge satiTP for which .he is famous. Moliere u>es this situation to pierce with ~hafts of comedy the medical profession for which he had no use. fhe French dramatist forces Sgan- arelle to ministet· to a girl who pre- tends to be dumb because she does not wi~h to marry the man whom her father has chosen for her. During the ·course of the action, Miss Beth Walsh, star of several light operas gi·ven in Schenectady and vicinity, will sing a ty.pical song of the seventeenth century. This attempt to preserve the accur- acy of the period will be noticeable throughout the production, the Ex· ecutive Committee has indicated. -----0--- ~- Burges Johnson to Speak At Phi Beta Kappa Dinner Dr. DurgE's Johnson, chairman of thf' Fi~ld of English, will be the principal speaker at the Schenec- tady meeting of the Upper Hud>'on .~s~ociation of Phi Beta Kappa to be held em Saturday, May 18, it was announced today by Dr. David S. Morse, professor of mathematics. who is secretary of the association. The subject of Dr. Johnson's talk will bf' \The Lunatic Fringe of Modern Literature,\ Dr. Morse said. The meeting will be in the form of a dinner for members of the as- sociation and their guests. Dr. Mor- . ton C. Stewart, associate professor of German and president of the association, will preside over the meeting. Executive Groups Of Mountebanks Named last Night Marshall Is Elected As Business Manager Of Dramatic Group Roger D. Marshall, '41, of Roslyn Heights, L. I., was elected student business manager, and Harold V. Hendrickson, 42, of New London, Conn., wa~ added to the executive committee in the annual· Mounte- banko elections held last night in Hanna Hall. At the same time An- dt·ew V. Speziali, '42, of New Lon- don, Conn., was elected to repre- sent the· Mountebanks on the Stu- dent Council. Marshall, who was. recently elected president of the Philoma- thians, is president of the Inter- national Relations Club, Manager- elect of football and is on the Dean's List. Hendrickson, who is playing his thit·d role in \The Doctor in Spite of Himself,\ is a member of the \'at sity swimming team. Three Reelected Others who were re-elected to serve on the committee were John T. Boyt, '42, of Bloomfield, N. J.; Andrew V. Speziali, '42, of New London, Conn., and Ralph H. Tie- bout III, '42, of Brooklyn. For the first time in several years the Mountebanks failed to elect a president to head the organization. Instead the executive comm-ittee was ordered to \organize itself\ in the fall. By unanimous action, the Mountebanks also voted to protest the regulation made by the Student Council l!Wt week that a uniform key award be given all student ac- tivities this year. The traditional Mountebanks key awards were voted to the following men for their contributions to the campus theatre: Jose Ruben. who staged \The Pursuit of Happiness;\ Everett M. Hafner, '40, of Brook- lyn, actor and mus-ician; Robert F. Kilmer, '40, of Schenectady, prop- erty manager; Roger M. Marshall, '41, business manager, and Ralph H. Tiebout, '42, actor, scenic artist and stage manager. Meadow New Chairman He·nry C. Meadow, '40, was ap- pointed chairman of a committee. which includes Kilmer and Boyt, to make inventory of the theatre facilities and make arrangements for summer use of the theatre by the Mohawk Drama Festival. The two organizations at present ex- change electrical equipment. A committee consisting of Elwin W. Hannock, Jr., '40, of Albany, and Speziali was also appointed to study recommendations for improving the facilities. of the theatre. The committee complimented the stage settings which were designed by Boyt and executed under the di- rection of Tiebout. \With these set- tings the Mountebanks h a v e achieved a spaciousness hitherto considet·ed impossible for the small stage, and a perfect setting for the fast moving farce of Moliere.\ Philomai·heans End Season With Colgate Conference The official debating season for the Philomathean Society closed Saturday when Union's delegates tu the Colgate Debate Conference returned to the campus, it was announced today by John A. Rus- kowski, student manager of de- bate. Ruskowski indicated that but one mor·e trip --that to the Williams Conference in Government·-is be- ing planned for· the remnant of this -academic year. Ruskowski said that the Philo- mathean Society plans to continue next year the round table style of discussion that it originated. Ev- ery school which has met the Union debating team under this new style has expressed its appro- val of the style. Dr. Morse explained that the Upper Hudson Association of Phi Beta Kappa meets three times each year, once in Albany, once in Troy and once in Schenectady. This meeting will be the third of this· academic year. Ruskowski stated that, after the· present senior members of the group graduate, there wili be re- maining only a small nucleus of juniors and underclassmen. He in- dicated the desire of the society for new members from both the present freshman and sophomore classes to repiace the numerous seniors who are to graduate in June.

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 1940 -- ~ ------~----- ll ==A=F=F=A=f=R=S=~'I! --- CALENDAR Today , 7:30 p. m. Chl\istian Associat-ion illnu.cnr FOUNDED 1877 \.-1 Causa Per sa Parole :/ ssai\ ~leznber of the A~:-ociate<l Collugiall· l't·e:-:~ nud llt::;tl i'IJUtl\lr-Ui·--ili~C'ol­ lt:g~IU t e ~D 7 1ge:,e:.:so::t.c_ __ _,,-,-;-;,---c ''I'llt: ulfLt.:ial Ilt\'\\:-}'ilpt_·t' 11f tilt· ~tud(Jd .... ~~.~-~~~.~~~ ,·;,:ff~~--J.:t- l'uhlh··ltt·d 1'u· .. day aiHl F'rillay~ th'l'uugh.~ut tht· ·l·tdlt·~·W :;.. •·.11 Editorial Iioomti, :-:;illiman l !all, l 'tliotl 1 'nJ.Ieg~--- L'alllJitl\'. '1\·!l·ph(!ltt• :,>e<>ned:ulr. 4-0l~:\ ~ _ -~ __ Publication Ouh·o. Tltt· ti:3Z~tl;-p,~.~~ .. -. ·:::~! -~-;l-:-t~::--;t:- ;;~-t;t.~t-, ta:d~. :'\. Y. 'fd~lJho.Jltt:: ·lw-11!1 ::lUl.Jbl'riPtii·Jii Jllll't! Fi \ t· l\l'llb ;1,. \.'' 1 PY • $:: IIU .l o.kh\t!t•oj ,Jii\ \\lit·!• i11 tlu.~ Cll1h:d StalL':-.. Senior Bourd Jumes E. Twining, Jt ...................... ~ .. Editor-in-Chief l'ld l':--.1 L11dgt· 4-t:~.~; Robert it. Eisner_ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Business Manager KaJ•p.t :\'t1 ll••tl..,t l·7:~;:·! Robert ::;, Schulberg ................ , ... , ......... Associate Edito1· Phi Stgrn~t fldt.l Hou:-t• ti-vtG.:. Paul \\'. Becl,er ................................... A,;sol'iate ~ditor John D. Phillips ................................. . p..,l {'J•..,ilnll HnU:--t_ -l-\:111 Spol'ts Ect.itor John 1'. Lewis............................. . ~ ... Editor-at-Large Jack Rabinowitz ............................. Circulation Manager Phi Sigma ]Jdla liou:-e--li-Uiti.J REPRe&eNTEC FOR NATIONAL APVERTI&ING ev National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420MAotsoN Ave:. Ne:w YORK. N.Y. CHICAGO ' BOSTON • LOS AtiGELES • SAN fRANCISCO Junior Board Armand Feigenbaum Allen Orton Solomon Blechman Samuel Portnoy ---- ------ - Sophomore Board Robert Dake, Robert Bishop, Robert Nemeroff, Gtanger Tripp, Thomas O'Connor, Richard Watanabe, Robert Hayner, Arthur Cohen, Charles Chase, Everett McCarty, Norman Fox. Robert Allan, Photographic Editor Business Staff David Rosenblum George Lieberman Harold Mes,;enger Justin Perlstein, Stanley Greenstein, Donald Haigh, Laskar Schwartz, Myron Mills. ~ _ _ _ Issue Editor ... :- .. ~~., -::. : . ... :. ~:~:-:. ~--: ~- .. - .. - ....... Allen Orton Assistants At·mand Feigenbaum Granger Tripp Arthut Cohen Tuesday, Ap!'il 30, 1940 ON DICTATORSHIP In October 19:39, The Conco!'dien::;is conducted a .student poll to sound out opinion on a number of pertinent campus question:;. Included in thi:s poll was the question of uniform award kevs and whether all Cnion activities should have keys diffe.ring on!~· in inscription. To this pmticular question the sons of :.\linerva responded in this manner: ;) 1;) said that they favored the p1·oposal to adopt a :sy::;tem uf uniform keys and 61 did not favor this plan. Faced with such a clear ma- jority, the above proposal was introduced in the ::;ucceeding Student Council meeting and was again supported whole- heal'tedly. A host of young students repre- senting practicaHy every college in New Yorl' state assembled at Col- gate University last F'liday and Saturday to suggest s0lutions to four of the mo~t pressing problems now confnmting the pec.ple of New Yorl{ State. Somewhat temovc·C: from the ordinm·y business of the con!et·ence but an extremely val.u- ab!P con t ribu tiuH nevertheless, was sn add·ress on pre>ent European problem:; given by the noted jour- nalist. author. a.n d lecturer, Maur- ice Hindu:;. Whether GovPrnot· Leh- man or the New York State As;Pm- bly will sel'iously considPI' the pro- I pusals which were mace by thl' Stu- dent ::Model As;embly b somewhat doubtful. It i:; difficult to see, how- ever, how any st ucent could ha vc left Colgate without canying away with him P better underctanding of the present chaotic con<.!ition in Europe and tl:t• pwn t~ w.hic'h lPd 1 thereto. Hindus was very familia.!' with tht> Ewope cf the Treaty of Paris; he is vet·y famil-iar with the Europe we know tocay. In a world of rela- tivt• values ronH·ast can be;t sug- ~est what ic de,irable. Therein lay the t 1·ue worth of Hindu:;'s contri- bution. Without attempting to quote directly and without express- ing agreerr.ent ot· dbagreement, it might be well to give a few of the msny interesting observations of tl':i:; man who ·has ra.rely had to de- pend on censo1ed and biaoed re- pot ts for his information. Not many years ago the proud :ittle republic of Czechoslovakia stood as the laot rept·esentative of the democratic system in south- ea~tern Em·ope The Briti:;h, who sm·pass all othei' people of the world in the virtue of self-c1·iticism, realize now what a tremendous miftakP they mace when they cru- cified the Czechs at Munich. The 2zPchs have only one desire which haunts them constantly: they wio·h to kill as many Germans as pcssible at thP earliest pos:;iblc opportunity. They are forced to stand ·by now and see the Germans take all their choice land and 'beloved homeE. Nazi dominance 'in this and other conquPred countries will some day fall, and when that day comes not one Get·nmn inhabitant will !'emain alive. Before the end of September, the patriotic ·but pcorly governed Poles fell under the impact of ·the Nazi war machine. The president fled to Rumania almost immediately, fol- lowed by thP Mini~tPJ' of War him- \elf with his mistress. Far from the scene of ba.ttle in ease and lux- ury. t.hey i~sued their orders and encouragpd the raggPd, wPary, and ceset·ted troops to light on. ThE' de- sin• for revenge in Poland io just as strong as in CzechoElovakia. When the opportunity presPnts it- self the GHmans will pay dearly From this point on however th.e pl'ogTess made to bring fm· their ruthleEsness. about the desired change is obscure. After the students The pictm·e of Nazi domination ie recommended the uniform ke.v plan, the executive committee not too favora,ble. It is totally falee to believe, however, that the masses of the Student Council took chmge of the situation. Numel'- are not supporting Hitler; they are. ous J. ewell',\' concerns were appl'oached with the idea and t is equally erroneous to believe that minorities, with the exception asked to submit desig-ns and quotations. Seve!'al designs of that in Switzerland, do not desire were submitted-some 'by students and faculty membel's. teunion with the Reich; they do. Detipite the lowering in the stand- At this stag-e of operations we can only suppose the plan was tabled and nothing was done until early in February when a design was presented to the student 'body through the Student Council by the executive committee of that body. This design, which at the time consisted only of a rough sketch, was shown to the Student Council deleg-ates and be- came the object of much debate. at·d of living and abolition of per- sonal freedom which have accom- panied tht> Nazis wherever they have won control, something draws the German people to the Fuehrer. They are apparently ~eeking sam- thing other than frPedom and lux- uty. Hindus ended with an ominous warning that if this war lasts two ~·ears we will be in it unless we Finall,·, at a recent Council meetim!.· the unil'orm ke.v plan contml our emotions. Judging by \ -- the gene!'al attitude this predic- was accepted when a vote of the delegates was taken (no tion seems conservative. It might · 1 d h t' be well to decide now what Eort vote having 'been taken pi'e\'IOUS y) an at t e same mee mg of a world we want. It might be the design, as submitted by the executive committee of the well also to watch international de- l d velopments closely. Such an in- Counci , was approve · terest may not keep us off foreign The vote to accept the proposed design was again a clea1· majority of the entire Council, but here we feel a miscarriage of justice has occurred. The following situation explains our belief: battlefields but it may at least tell us how we got there. -John A. Ruskowsld. -- -0- - ~ ~- - Pyramid Club Selects Watanabe as Secretary There are eleven activities represented on this year's Stu- dent Council. The membe1·s of only six of these activities Richard K. Watanabe, ' 4 3, has been elected sec1·etary of the Pyra- may, under the present system, receive key awards. Five of mid Club to succeed Geot·ge the six activit'' representatives eligible for keys voted against Clarke, ' 42 · it was announced last \ night by Edward Tajkowski, '40 the uniform key design as presented by the Council and the ptesident of the group. Tajkowski remaining activity was not represented at the meeting. In also stated that the neutral m·- ~.anization has decided upon May other words, a distinct majority, in fact, an overwhelming 14 for the date of its annual meet- majol'ity of the men for whom the keys are intended,-the ing and banquet at which the offi- cet s for next year will be elected. men who are interested in the keys and who work for the The six senior members of the keys,-do not want the approved keys. Is this not question- Pyramid Club have been appointed bl · t' ? 'I h k b · d by Tajkowski to prepare a slate of a e JUS ICe. ...~ ust t e ey wearers e dictate to regarding nominations for the May 1 4 meet- what kind of keys they will wear? We recognize the fact ng. Serving on the nominating that a maJ· orit,\· of the Council has le2·ally passed the pro- committee are Delbert H. Pasco, ~ Alden F. Mullins, Harry D. Had- posal, but we question the advisability of continuing this die- ley, Wilbert A Heinz, Charles H. tatol'ial policy by which the disinterested decide the fate of Guiles, and Tajkowski. Watanabe, Pasco, and Hadley have been the interested. Should not the question of keys be left en- named to draw up plans for the tirely to the individual activities? ·itual for the club's annual meet- ng. discu,;sion meeting. H a 1 e House Lounge. Wednesdya 10:0~ a. m. - Daily Assembly, Kenneth MacKenzie, ;Chair- n!an of Junior Prom Commit- tee. 1:30 p. n1. Varsity Golf, Union vs~ Sy1 a~ use at Schenectady. .t:30 p m. Freshman Track, Union vs. Nott Terrace High Schoo'!. 7:30 p. m. Schubert Club Re- hE>anml, ;),lemorial Chapel. Thursdar 10:00 a. m. Daily Assembly, Dr. Irvh1g Langmuir. .; :30 p. m. Varsity Golf. Union vs. Midd'lebury at Schenec- tady. 7:30 p nL B'aculty Men's Club M~l't lng, Ha!e House Lounge. F1·iday 10:00 a m. ~ Daily Assembly, Dr. ~lmPI' A. Tidmarsh. 3:30 p. m.- Robinson Wedding·, Memorial Chapel. 4:30 p. m. - Vatsity Baseball. Union vs. Havetford, at Hav- t>rford. .;:30 p. m. Varsity Tennis, Union vs. Vermont, at Sche- nectady. 4:30 p. m. Freshman Baseball. Union vs. Tl\oy High School, at Schenectady. 8:00 p. m.-Schubert Club Con- celt, Dol\othy Baker, Soprano., Memorial Chapel. CAPRICE In eve1·y lecture from history to math, Ptofe>sors have talked on Grapes of Wrath.\ \The Please, God, ere we return next fall, Make them read something new, if they read at all. -- R. R. c.. '41. The above quatrain incorporates a lovely little thought and we're suckers for lovely little thoughts. It's common enough lmowledge that professots talk too much but nobody <:Ver says anything about it. Spring ha:o arrived finally and it's having its effect. Ont: thing Spring alway:; doe~ to us is give us the urge to loll on g1 een gtass and thin!' philosophically about thou- sands and thousands of subjects. Without exception, we think about a subject and nothing comes of it. Many is the time we've thought about this business of profeswrs talking too much. We think and think, and they keep talking and talking, To coin a cliche, the1 e ain't no justice. There is something about getting up for an eight o'clock on a warm, sunny April mot·ning, at peace with the world, completely cont1.nted, only to go to class and have ycur day ruined by some perfectly bor- ing learned lecture. Not that the faculty here at Union are dull lec- tm et·s, ne'er let the words pass our lips. It'o just that God ordained that balmy mornings be spent in contemplative silence, midst birds and g1 ass and books of poetry. Admitted, the academic system would not long stand for such pro- cedure, but surely something can be done about membet·s in facultae who pPrsiH in talking fmm eight until ten minutes to nine. Perhaps a system of deaf-mute hand lan- guage could be instituted. Thus would the students absorb their learning and still not have their t•everies 1·aucously disturbed. The beauty of this arrangement is that wh£'n the profes:orial lecture be- gins to stray off the theme, the students have but to drop their eyes ft·om the flitting hands of the lecturer. In such a manner would the story teller tell his stot·y with- out jarring the gentle feelings of his class. The more we think about this method of study, the more we realize that we're wasting out time here in college. We should be out in the world, spending every avail- able moment in thinking about wonderful ideas that would bene- fit all mankind. Come to mention it, though, we guess all you have to do is abolish eight o'clock classes to settle the whole problem. That's an old theme and nobody really ever got any- where with it, so we'll forget all about this and go back to our little spot on the grass and think Eome more. Something or other interest- ing might occur to us. If you want an explanation fot· this column, just say we had a little versey submitted to us and we were thinking about it. -8trud. -----0-- - DELTA PHI PLEDGES Delta P·hi Fraternity announces the pledging of George Weed, '43, of Gloversville, New York, and Ed- ward Ward, '41. of Baltimore, Md. ANNALS OF ST. ANDREWS By JOHN P. LEWIS St. Andrews, Apl'il 3, 194@. the cut•renHy passable half of the For a few hours on Easter Day pavement. Here and there double we broke ~nto Swiss high society. • rows of freshly set, yard-high con- Stuffing a third-cla;;s return ticket crete nubbins stt·etch act oss piOnl- to Geneva deep into a•n inside ising battle fields; the woods have pocket. we tried to become a nat- been commandeered ns milit:uy ural part of a fwmily circle which areas and are a maze of bathed- has governesse:o, its own ''hunt,' wire entanglements and artHlery etc., on ih; estat.e above thP little positions. Most of thP c trategical village of Mettmenstetten a few bridges between Zurich and the · miles from Zurich. With the clarity· border are mi·ned, guarded and of the great semi-circle of snow-. ready to be touched off at a rna- topped peaks back of Lake Zug, ment's notice. commencing at the tight with Pi- Of course, .Qfficially, Switzetland !at us and the Jti·ng-frau, be~yiHg ite is pl'eparing for co:e aggressor no distance, a-nd with pouring sunlight more than another--all her borders and a south wind from the Med.i- are manned, and, as the saying terranPan ma~king wintE'!' c'othe~ goes, if France invades, she wi!.l uncomfortable, the- day was the fight her, calling in Germany for mo:<t gl01 imrs Switzerland ha,; seen aid, and \'iCP versa. However, any- in months. And, on the whole, the one who compares the complete mood of .the people fitted .the day. lack 0f ostensi:b!e defenses in and Ther<? was laughter and hilarity; about Geneva with thP militaristic pea:oants a.nd \gentlemen\ ex- atmosphere in Zurich and Schaf- changed eoJoloquial greetings as hausen on the RhinE' where we they wandered abou·t on their S1:1n- were three mi•les from the German day afternoon walks, and the chi!-· border a week ago Monday, can dren had their annual egg hunt. have no doubt a:; to the quatter in Yet this was a different Easter which suspicions lie. than tha·t of 1939. There had been How long could the Swiss hold several changes. Two sons 0f the out against German aggression? family had become officers in the This is exactly what they would army. Blackout curtains had been like to know. Certainly their land hung at the windows, and ration- defenses are admirable, but much ing had come-though the table of their equipment is old. For one failed to suggest it. Not all was thing, if their ancient-vintage rifles comp.osure and self confidence. are worked at a battle pace, they As the final course was disposed are apt to burn up. Their great- of and dinner carne to a tardy est vulnerability is from the air. . close, the host grinned, \Well let's The anti-aircraft defense is good, get out to the ten·ace for our cof- as that sot·t of thing goes, but the fee before Hitler gets it.\ The air force is very feeble. A well-in- laughter which followed was not formed compatriot of ours living for lack of credulity of the possi- in Zurich places the period of suc- bility-or even of the probability- cessful unassisted Swiss resistance of the advent he suggested. In fact at one week. Even seven days the remat·k was quite characteris- would give the Allies ample time to tic of the most general prediction arrive with worthwhi!e reinforce· we heard voiced dul'ing our return ments, but there is one other poi11t to northern Switzerland·--that of which strangely must be considered Nazi invasion. And a momentary seriously in such a circumstance. tableau seen that same Easter Day Swiss pride would be running true hints at the kind of a reception the to form if the request for Allied as- Swiss are planning for Herr Adolf: sistance were made too late; and We noticed one of the middle-aged should the AUies arrive with help gentleman toying absent-mindedly before they received a formal in- with a gargoylish ash tray and his vitation, we would rather expect to pen knife. He looked up, happily see the little democracy declare stabbed the unfortunate tray in its war on all three major belligerents. distended mouth, and explained Such, then, is the stage-set in the laconically, \Hitlet·.\ Alps, or so it struck us two weeks Two yeat·s ago there was consid- ago. The only thing that puzz!Gs us erable pro-German sentiment in in the Swiss calculaticns is for German-speaking Switzerland. To- what reason they expect the Ger- day feat has produced a nearly mans in the first place. On the one unanimous and fervent hatred of hand we don't think the country the gluttonous big neighbol'. Sig- has the strategical attractiveness nificant is the growing movement of the low countries. On the other, to introduce the Switzer-Dutsch an expectation of a big spring push dialect into the schools, but more from Germany, whose, best policy significant are the anti-tank bar- is to sit tight and develop Rus- ricades on all highways entering sia, strikes us as nothing but Al- Zurich. At the ban·icade point on lied wishful thinking. The facts, of a two-strip road, on one side six or course, may prove our stupidity be- eight-foot-wide steel girdet·;; rear fore this column goes to press. At threateningly about four feet above any rate, we are confident they their concrete implantations, and won't disprove .our statement that an equal number lie ready to be Switzerland i~ ready and waiting dropped in,to holes cut for them in for all comers. IN THE MAIL To the Editor: The student:> of Union College are to have an opportunity to see all of the famous foreign films through the collabmation of the American Association of Univer- sity Women and the new manage- ment of the Rivoli Theatre. If the Schenectady public responds in sufficient numbers to mal'e it pos- sible, a prize foreign film will be shown once a month. A> the first offering, the A.A.U.W. has chosen the seven award film, \Harvest which is now having a phenomenal run in New York City. It was voted one of the ten best films of the year, and with \Gone with the Wind\ and \ Mr. Smith Goes to Washington.\ one of the thrPe four- star films. The Rivoli, dark until yesterday, thoroughly renovated, both as to its interior, and its sound and pro- jection equipment, is now show- ing \Gone with the Wind.\ \Har- vest\ will be presented May 26 and 27, and tickets will be on sale at the College Bookstore and the Ad- ministration Building for 35 cents. Spanish films, including \The Wave\; Italian films, including \Verdi\; further French films, in- cluding \The Baker's Wife\ (\La Femme du Boulanger\) \Claudine\ and \The Mayor's Dilemma\ are among those to be shown in the fall, A. P. Danton. NOTICES l'ROFICIENCY TESTS Proficiency tests in German and French will be given on Monday, May 6, 3 to 6 p. m., in Bailey Hall, Room 110. The Modern Language Field em- phasizes the fact that since these examinations release students from the two year language requirement, they should only be attempted by studt>nts with exceptional pre pat a- tiori who have done work clearly above the avetage in French 2 and German 2. Students who have pre- viously shown less ability than the standard indicated abo\'e, but who desire to pass the tests, should take them only if they have pursued :,erious additional study. All students who wish to take these tests will kindly inform my office. C. F. GARIS, Dean. NEWMAN CLUB MEETING The Newman C'lub will hold a meeting this evening at 7:30 in Stillman Hall. Business to be dis- cussed will include forthcoming elections and excuses from Sunday cha.pel. The club's chaplain, Father Finn, will give a brief talk, fol- lowed by a question and discussion period. All Catholic students are cordially invited to attend. Re- freshments will be ::erved. CLUETT AND SONS are pleased to announce that Harvey Wilson now heads its ' RECORD and VICTROLA DEPARTMENTS Latest Victor, Bluebird, Columbia and Decca Record Releases 202 STATE ST. NEXT TO MOHAWK BANK ' tl u .. S: cl b: w ~~ b; tE sl tl S< tl Vl ho h G 1r t'l rr tl ti w t' a: tl tl F s rr p: tc ti u g: B S< ci f~ a t~ 1( p· rr S( f< tl eJ u S< o· D a b· B t! o: G p c 1. 2. c 2. 1. 0 I. 5: 21 F d• li e1 9: N S< pl B M H 01 Ol H Ol 7: w m u Ol b• H a1 H

f the o1.1ble con- have y the and me~ rland no wi!.l y for any- and we rman can in hold ::;ion? land one rifles they p·eat- air. good, t the suc- tance days to point red true as- and help in- to the QS US for Ger- one eness push Rus- t Al- of be- s. At they that and Hall, em- from d by para- early and pre- the who take take my an. a in dis- nday fol- are Re- K LACROSSEMEN Sti·ckmen Down Lafayette fo.r fi:rst Win Since '38; Ver.mont On Top 65-61 Stillman a:nd Fay Score Ten for Lacrosse Team; Javelin Toss Gives Track Meet to Cats Led by Co-captain Mike Stillman,i The University of Vermont track the varsity la:cro::>::>e team chalked team eked out a 65-61 win over u.p its fin;t win in ten starts on Union at Burlington on Saturday Saturday afternoon when it out- It was not until the conclusion ~f classed the Lafayette ten on Li- the final event, the jave'lin throw, !:nary Field by a 13-3 score. Stil!ma.n that t.!Ie outcome of the meet dS wa~ high ;:;corer for the Dutchmen, C•efinitely decided. tallying seven goals, f o 1 1 ow e d The ::;core read, ·61-56, before the tly Co-captain Merlin Fay who net- javelin throw competition and a ted three shot8. The Dutchmen fir~t and second in this event wou,ld showed marked superiority over have won the meet for the Garnet. the visitors in all depat·tmen.ts and Although Burt Brittin took a first scm ed practical'ly at will against plaee, the Catamount entries took the weak defense of the Pennsyl- second and third to clinch the meet vania team. Union's defense, which for· the home team. Brittin's throw held Lafayette scot·eless in the first of 173 feet 5 incb.es came within ha-lf of the tilt, was ahtight and 9', inches' of the Un·ion t'ecord, Goalie Holme::; was called on ~ 0 . which stands at 174 feet, 2 inches. make but one or two rea! :;av.es m the first two pel'iods. The Dutch- mens attack, while n0t as good. a8 the defense and a bit spotty at times, showed tlasheo; of real power which it had n0t dis·played in the two opening contests with Hobart and Swarthmore. Gain Lead Eal'ly The Dutchmen held a 3-0 lead at the end of the first quartet· by vir- tue of Co-captains Stillman's and Fay's shots into the Lafayette net. Stillman and Fay each taHied twice more and Bob Newton slipped one nast Simon, the Lafayette goalie, to give Union a 8-0 lead at half time. RonniP. Ostrander swelled the Union total to nine points at the be- ginning of the second half before Harvey Cohen, last year's high scorer in Pennsylvania collegiate circle, scored the first goal for La- fayette. Cohen duplicated thi~ shot a few minutes later and Stlllman Several ,·ophomores, competing in their· fit ,.;t varsity meet, were out- standing for the Dutchmen. Gus Morrison's high jump of 5 feet, 8 inches gained him a tie for first place in this event and although not regularly a hurdler, he too·k a second in the 120-yard highs. Bob M·uther, another sophomore, ran the quarter mile in :52.4 to take a first and later placed second in the 220· yard• dash. Lou D'Acundo tool{ a second place in the broad jump. '!.'he Dutchmen lost close de- cisions in the discus throw and the high jump. Captain Ernie Baden- stab's discus heave fell but eight inches short of the 120 feet 3 1 rz inches mark made by Akley in winning the event for the Vermont team. Although Johnny Senn cleared the bar on the way over in the pole vault, he dislodged it on his way down, and had to be con- tent with a tie for second place. tallied his fifth to give Union a Summaries: 1o-2 lead at the end of the third period. Stillman Ends Scoring A goal by Jack Guibert and two more by Mike Stillman ended the scoring for Union. Six minute.s be- fore play ended, Steele slipped through te Dutchmen defense . to end the scoring for both teams wrth Union on top, 13-3. Mike Stillman, who won top Ecoring honors for the day, was the outstanding performer for the Dutchmen. Merlin Fay also played a good game for the Dutchmen, both on the defense and offense. Harvey Cohen led the Lafayette at- tack and Wa8 the outstanding man on the field for the visitors. Lineup: Union Lafayette G Holmes . . . . . . . . . . . S. Simon p Mara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Colling C.P. Passe . . . . . . . . . . . . . E. Simon 1.D. Griffith . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hooven ? D Newton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jacoby C .. Guibert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . St~ele 2.A. Ward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hames 1.A. Fay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cchen O.H. Ostrander . . . . . . . . Sternb~rg I.H. Stillman ............ Goldrmg Scoring: Union-Stillman, 3:52. 5:05; Fay 10:13; Stillman 18:50, 21~04; Fay, 21:37; Newton 25:10; Fay, 27:08. Second half- Ostran- der 2:06; Stillman, 12:52; Guibert 17:19; Stillman 21:22. 27:57. Lafay- ette-second half: Cohen. 7:25: 9:02; Steele, 23:25. Substitutions: Union-Wardwell, Nothacker, Corby, Panoff, Ha~gh, Schulze, Knopf. Lafayette--Gmo· pie Stillman, Griffith, Steele, Ba~nes, Alden, Starenski, Piatt, McDevitt. ----o·--- 19~0 SOI•'TBALL SCHEDUI,E On Tuesday, April 30, the Class of 1940 will meet the Class of 1943, on diamond 2, while the Class of 1942 will meet the class of 1941 on diamond 3. Both games are at 7:30. 1943 Friday, May 3, the Class of . will play the Class of 1941 on ~ra­ mond 2, the Class of 1942 mee~mg the Class of 1940 at the same bme on diamond .3. On Thursday, May 9, the game between the Classes of 1940 and 1941 will take place on diamond 2, at 12:45, the Classes of 1942 and 1943 meeting on diamond 3. Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY PHONE 4-2553 High jump - Three-way tie, Becker (Vl, Morrison (Ul and Smith (UJ. Height-5 feet 8 inches. Shotput- First, Bodenstab (Ul, second Johnstone (V), third Ciesin- ski (U). Distance-39 feet 3%, inches. 120-yard high hurdles - First, Allen (Vl, second Morrison <UJ, third Becker <Vl. Time-0:16.7. 100-yard-First, E. Smith (V), second H. Smith (Ul, third Stowell (V). Time-0:10.1. Mile-First, Webster <VJ, second Hastings (U), third Stoddard <VJ. Time--4: 46.1. 440-yard - First, Muther (U), second Bothwell (Ul, third Roby (V). 'l.'ime-0:52.4. Two-mile - First, Webster (Vl, second Melewicz (U), third Livok (V). 'l.'ime-10:32.2. Pole vault-First, Davis <Vl, tie for second, Senn (U) and Pratt (V). Heighth-11 feet. 220-yard low hurdles - First, Allen (V), second Bothwell (U), third Searl <Vl. Time-0:27.8. 880-yard - First, St9well <l(l, second Johnson (U), th1rd Robm- son (Ul. Time-2:05.7 . Dh:cus-First, Akley <V), <;econd Bodenstab (U), third Johnstone (Vl. Distance-120 feet 3'h inches. 220-yard- First, E ~mith . (Vl, second Muther < U l, th1rd Encson <Ul. Time-0:22.9. Broad jump-First, Smith (U), second D'Acundo (Ul, third Nichols (Vl. Distance-20 feet 11 'h inches. Javelin-First, Brittin (U), seco?d Nichols (Vl, third Akley (VJ. Dls- tancc--173 feet 5 inches. - ---o----- FACULTY 80F1'BALL The first faculty softball gam.e of the year will take place on F.n- day afternoon. As yet no fraternrty opponent has been picked. ,Just around the <•orner nn Eastern A ,·enue Qual!ty Ice Crenm Light Luneltos oPE~ 1'1LJ, )IIDNIGHT Freeman's High Quality WALLPAPER PAINT GLASS For Past 142 Years Freeman & Son, Incorporated Phone 4-9155 12-20 Erie Blvd~ THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 1940 Page Three WIN: TRACK . TEAM NOSED OUT Lead Lacrosse Team to 13-3 Win MIKE STILLMAN and MERLIN FAY Varsity BaHhawks Netmen Drop Two Meet Syracuse To Pennsylvania In Opener Today 4th Attempt to Open Season as Rochester Rained Out Friday The varsity baseball team will make its fomth attempt to play its first game when it will meet the :'lyracuse squad on Alexander Field at 4:30 o'clock this after- noon. RocheS':er was the third scheduled aame on .Jast Friday afternoon b~t a hard fifteen min- ute downpour left Alexander Field in no ~ondition for a ball game. The Orangemen will bring a vet- eran team to town, but one· not quite as strong as last year's which fell victim to AI Mould's pitch- ing mastery, 3-2. Rumor has it that the upstate squad is out for revenge and will try hard to pin the Dutchmen's ears back in short order. LawrencP Set on LinE'up Coach Lawrence has announced a starting lineup similar to the one he has tried to start in three other contests. The battery will be Al Mould on the mound and Co- captain Harry Palmer behind the plate. Co-captain Charlie Brock- ncr will be at first base and AI Turchick or Ned Reilly at sec- end. Mickey Rathlev will be at shortstop and either Bob Garnett or Fred Chesebro at third. 'l'ur- chick and. Garnett will probably start while Chesebro and Reilly two sophomores, will see action later in the game. The outfield will be patrolled by Fred Patrie in center, \Tiny\ Weintraub in right field and either Earl Raifstanger or AI Rasso in left field. Rasso has looked good in practice sessions lately and may push Raifstanger out of the left field berth which the latter won early in the season. In practice sessions lately, the Garnet has looked spotty in their fielding. This, along with the fact that many of the team's sluggers have yet to find their batting eye. may spell defeat for the Dutchmen today. However·, steady fielding and some timely hitting might well turn the tables and upset the favored Orangemen. \Call Ball and Ball Will Call\ Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market \Quality - Service Satisfoction\ OUR MOTTO 598 Broadway For Better Values Swarthmore Wins 9-0; Haverford on Top 7-2; Ralston Wins Singles The varsity tennis team took two on the chin in its weekend trip to PPnn~ylvania. The netmen dropped the first match of the season when the Swarthmore team subdued them easily, 9-0. On it:: second stop of the trip they were a bit more successful, losing to Haverford, 7-2. The only man to win his single match was Ralston, who defeated Hoyt of Haverford, 4-6,6-1, 6-4. The doubles team of Woodward and Swart gained the only other Garnet of Haverford, Captain Miller of Union injured his ankle during his match at Swarthmore and had to retire from the court. Summar ieo: Swarthmore 9, Union 0. Post lS.> defeated Ralston <U.), 6-4, 5-7, 7-5; Buckman <S.) defeated Schattan ( U.l, 6-1, 6-0; Miller <S.) defeated Beik lU.), 6-3, 6-3; Kumi- Hausthman \S.) defeated Wood- ward \U.l, 6-0, 6-4; Prebram (S.) defeated Potter \U.), 6-3, 6-2; Muck- man and Robbins \S.) defeated Ralston and Woodward <U.), 6-4, 5-7, 7-5; Hanson and Lox <S.J de- feated Beik and Potter \ U.), 6-4, 6-4; Brebrarn and Snyder ( S.) de- feated Swart and Schattan (U.), 8-6, 7-5. Haverford 7, Union 2. Ralston <U.) defeated Hoyt (H.), 4-6, 6-1, 6-4; Deweres (H.) d,!lfeated Pottet <U.l, 6-3, 6-1; Newball defeated Beik, 6-0, 6-0; Swan (H.) defea,ted Schatten < U.), 6-2, 6-1; Floccus (H.) defeated Woodward lU.), 6-3, 6-3: Molston \H.) defeated Swart \U.), 3-6, 6-1, 6-2; Hoyt and Deweres \H.l defeated Ralston and Schattan <U.), 3-6, 6-4, 6-4; Woodward and Swart 1 U. l defeated Swan and Floccu~ \H.), 9-7, 4-6, 6-0; Stanton and Newhall lH.) defeated Beik and Potter· \ U.), 6-3, 7-5. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food-Always Open One step from State St. P H 0 N E 6-3456 DALEY'S Featuring GOOD FOOD AND DRINKS BOOTH and COUNTER SERVICE 414 STATE ST. Cub Trackmen Face Nott Terrace Squad Tomorrow Freshmen Preparing For Opener; Davis And Klinkow Look Best Bi.Jl Ketz's yearling track Sljuad will open its ~eason on Wed- nesday afternoon at 4:30 o'clock when i't will face tht• Nott Tenace I Iigh School team. This will be the fit·st meet of a thl'l:e game sched- :J'le which includes Albany Academ:y vn ~fay 9 and 111ont Pleasant Hig·h School on May 15, both on Alex- ander Field. Coach K<>tz announced that Mac- Millan is slated to run the 100 against the high school and will en- ter the 220 with Klinkow. Davis and K•J.inkow will run the 440 and Quinn, Carney and Messenger will enter the 880. Luebner and SneH are scheduled to run the mile while Wilkins and Dean will enter the high and low hurdles. Buckland has received the nod for the pole vault while Stan Davis will handle the high jump. Buckland is slated for duty in the broad jump while Le- Roy amd Davis will get the call for the shotput. Gulnac will th1·ow the discus while Breed will toss the javelin. Davis and Klinlww Best So far in practice Klinkow has looked good in the 220 and 440 while Davis has turned in excel- lent times in the quarter. Both men have shown plenty and look like good prospects for the varsity next yPar. Davis has also looked good in the field events as has Buckland, while Snell has turned in good times in the distance events. On Saturday of the past week the NoH Terrace relay team again captured first place in the Inter- scholastic Two Mile Rtelay in the Penn Relays. ----o--- Varsity Golf Team Opens Season Here Wednesday The varsity golf team opens its· season this week when it meets the Syracuse linksmen on Wednes- day and the Middlebury golfers on Thursday in two home matches. Qua-lifying matches were held on Saturday and Sunday and from the cards handed in, six men have been picked to meet Syracuse on the Mo- hawk Golf Club course on Wednes- day. Captain Foster Brown, plare Graves, Ben Lord and Boward Mott, all veterans of last year's team have been picked, as well us James Pinkston and Bo King, members of last year's freshman team. INTRAMURALS Softball Rt-sults April 23 Kappa Sigma 17, Phi Sigma Kappa 12. April 24--Chi Psi 7, Kappa N11 !i; Beta Theta Pi 19, Delta Chi 11; Phi Gamma Delta 26, Kappa Al- pha 9. Apt il 25 Phi Delta Theta li, Theta Delta Chi 2; Neutrals 12, Phi Sigma Kappa 4; Psi Upsilon 12, Sigma Chi 7: D(>lta Phi 25, Alpha llelta Phi 5. April 26 Neutrals 18, Beta Theta Pi i; Kappa ~u 13, Sigma Phi 8; Phi Sigma WeHa and Chi Psi, eight .nning tie, 8-8. April 29 Delta Chi 13, Phi Sigma Kappa l; Kappa Alpha 21, Delta Upsilon 14; Phi Gamma Delta 15, Psi Upsilon 4; Phi Delta Theta 13, Alpha Delta Phi 4. Phi Sigma Delta ~. Sigma Chi 7. HorspshoP Tournanwnt Tht> entries for the horseshoe tournam(>nt are posted on the bul- ll'tin board in the basement of the gymnasium. The courts arc now ready fer play and the fiirst round of the tournament must be played off by Satmday. Intramural Tracl• Meet The intramural track meet will be held on May 6 and 7, rain or shine. On Monday the 100 yard, 440 yard, 120 yard low hurdles, the cliscus and the high jump will be run off. On Tuesday, May 7, the 220 yard dash, the 11, mile relay, javelin, shotput and broad jump wiH be held. Any one contestant may enter only three events, not counting the relay. A man may enter two field events and one running event or two 1unning events ad one field event; not three field events or three running events. The track meet wiN be held on May 6 and 7 at 4:30 p. m. ---o---- FRESHMAN GOLF There will be an important meet- ing of freshman golf candidates in the trophy room of the gym- nasium, \Vednesday, May 1, at 1:15 p.m. The following men are· to re- port and any other candidates who are interested in playing fresh- man golf: Syd Horton, George Loomis, Norman Fox, Robert Campchero, Tom O'Connor, Rob- ert Acker, Herman Kozlowski, Mel Messinger, Tom Carney, and Ger- ald Camey. Professor J. Harold Wittner, dii ector of athletics, will outline the matches of the coming season and will set a qualifying date. C. S. M 0 0 D Y Optometrist Ey.,s Examined, Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Telephone 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. GUERRA PHARMACY We deliver sandwiches and drugs till 11 p. m. PHONE 6-9419 600 UNION ST. Cor. BARRETT Drugs, Prescriptions, Sundries SANDWICHES and LIGHT LUNCHES CLOVERLAND CREAMERY For Prompt Servic:e MILK - BUTTER - EGGS - CHEESE - ICE CREAM Phone 6·8104 919 State St. Gazette Press Printers Schenectady Engraving Co. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 30, 1940 Miller's Rise to Top Band Leader Like That of Horatro Alger Hero Educators' Conference Concluded on Saturday I No Dormitory Rebates I Given After June 10 I l Contin·ued from Page ll A rebate of tive dollars, accorded its fm·ms in the colleges of lib- those who signed thei1 dormitor·y 1940 Garnet to Appear May 15 Watt and Carey Discuss Election Views of Labor (Continued from Page D ·!>- t'l a! arts and sciences . , . and the contracts eal'ly in past years, will prosecution of such plans as may. be given on:ly those who sign be- Har t'y L. Cr·osby, '41, editor of The Gannet, armounced yesterday that he expects the book to be available for distribution to the student body by about May 15. This wHl be almost three weeks earlier than the col'lege annual ap- peared last yea·r·. l lcluf,iciently accomplished trombon- 1 ·a 11 ged ntU\r'c fat· name band:;, de-· u mal{e more efficient the institutions fore Commencement this year, it I ist to locatE' a job with Ben Pol- veloping the tricks of .;tvle that · 1 d d · 't b 1 · \ Leaders Pessimistic Over Any Realignment Of CIO and A F of L Th h ' me u e 1-n 1 s mem ers up, was announced today by Mr. An- lack's old orchestra. e man w o have si.nce been used by his h l t . h f . A.m. ong t e members of the A.sso- thony D. Hoadley, Comptroller of was ate1 to at am sue arne, band. After some time, he decided h t wa,; now relegated t0 the bac. k- tllat t·he on!\ way to have s 0 ngs ctatton t a sent ~epr~sentatlves the College. Formerly the closing , are: Harval'd University Yale ground in the Pollack outfit which played the way he wrote them, was Unive•·sity, Bowdoin Colle~e, Am- d~te for the rebate was the first included such ::;tellar names as to ha·ve his own band, so he organ- herst College, Williams College, ef July. . . ...-----------------. . . . h I D~nny Guo.dmnn nnd thP ·brnthPI's izeLi the crew that he caHo \?'tum- lJartmeuth College, Columbia Uni-~ ::-.fr. Hoadle) also mdrcated thn:t Expressmg little hope t at co- Dorse'·· I . 0 ., f t h b f t . b t th c I o and ' be1 ne versity, Skidmore Colle!!e, the a new or.·ma as een made or opel'(!. ton e ween e · · · Later after leaving Pollack Mil- · - the A.F. of L. could bP rffPl'tPrl bP- let ccw;e tu New Yul k and 'made. But !hP C'!imb to the top was a United States Military Academy, the dormitory contracts. The new Bellevue (j)uaUty Bakery 2625 B'way Phone 4-6248 . fore the presidentia-l election, Rob- ·onw t·ecords with the Dorseys Who very difficult one-far more dtffi- Fordham University, Hamilton Col- contracts are in the hands of the ert J. WaH, international labor ~ad just formed their own 01 :ches- ?ut than for the band.s that are lege, St. Lawrence University, printer now, Mr. Hoadley stated, representative of the A.F. of L. and tra and then went to work for Red m the other top pos1~10ns toda_Y. 8olby College. Boston College, but the material coata:i·ned in them James B. Carey, gener~l ::;ecretary Ni~hols, a<>ain a lesser light in an \Number .. one\ wa~ ~~~.banded m Smith College, and Wellesley Col- ·is essentially the same as that in of the C.I.O., led the diSCUSSIOn at C!Che·tra rhat featured the famous favor of Num?er Tv;o, ::'nd even lege. the old contracc. BREAD - ROLLS • PASTRY the Empire· State Town Meeting ;F. \p . .. \'h'l . New· Yol·k after he had disbanded h1s second · tve ennH~~- vv 1 e 1n · , . . . .... Sunday in Old Chapel on the sub- Miller continued with trombone les-, outfit Ill favor of hi~ pre:sent one, ject, \What Should ~~ Lab.or's Role ~'Ons. and then branched out into there were sev.eral ttmes when he. in the Coming Pre:stdent1al Elec- . . . 0 f the earlie ·t to had about decrded to ge back to . ?\ all angmg. ne 0 . . \' r ran in . His real \breait\ came Uon · understand the sconng of swrng ar- a g g . Mr. Watt ::;aid that the. A.F. of L. ran ements. Gler:n •rew u.p wi>th the when he played an. e:~gagement at would examme the candidates pro- .. g , .. , . g r'ntpot t.ant con- the Meadowbrook m New Jersey. . . 1 t' d p.~z era anc; maue A t' t \till. \ b ld he g d posed by the poltUca· par res an t ·'b t' t th, l'br· 11 . . .,. of man'· t 11·s , a -m ar , 1a - . d II U lUll~ U l 1 a do J [) • d ffi . t f li .. publish their records rn regar to bands. ua y at.tame a s~ . cren o owmg. labor, addmg that thetr worker- Wht>n Ray Noble litst came to to be g1ven top b1Umg. members wo.uld .not be coerced to America, sans his English band It was at the Meadowbr oo·k that· make up their nunds fur one or an- which had be<>n 1 ,,ft with the Eng- he finally anived at the comple- other candidate. \W'ur kers Ill th<' Iishman s baggage a.t a wharf in ment of his present outfit, and it A.F. of L. do no:. JUdge by th~ Liwrpool. hP contacted Miller who was there he introduced Moonlight party label ol the candtdate out b) or•·antzt>d. set the style'. and ar- Serenade. Ray Eberle was the his ~~bhc recunl on labor ci rssues, ru~lged the librat·y fut· the orchestra! an:;w~r to Miller's desile f\r a male he ;;ard. . . that mad<' NoblP famous. It was vocahst whose tone would blend. Mr. Carey un thrs po111t ~tated whil<• hP wa' with Nobl<' that Glrnn with the band's mellow style. ~hat \Labor today r·eauzc·~ that JiJ~t m·.an •pd tlw original music Ftom the Meadowbrook, MiHet•'s. 1ts .best mterest '\ ;;el ved when he hud wri7ten fo1· th<· ><ong whieh windfall cont:nued at the Glen Is- the mtere::;ts 01 all uthl'l gt~up::; ar~ now sPrve' a~ hi~ thrme. \Moo .• - land Casino. from wh·ich popular JHoperly eonstdered .. ln t e even Jignt :se 1 enadl'.\ It was also while mu~ic fans began to hear more and tne tradttwnal pal ties put up as wlth :-.:obll' s ot·che,tta tha·t Millt'r I more frequent comment emanating candrdates \Jac. Gaz ner ~~emu· a 1 H u iPd uut his di~tinC'tivP ~eor-1 that \Miller had something.\ His crat I or V anctenburg 1 Kepu tcan J ll1g tor 1 eeds, which since ha::; been It ise from Glen Island to the Hotel 01 . any o~ner. political uumnues 01 establi:shed a, the Miller trade- Pennsylvania's Cafe Rouge and to thrs call re, . tnen ° 1 \ganrted t•a· mru k replacement for Paul Whiteman on bur ,;lwuJd rnvlt<• . a . 111 e!'<'> cu A>< the Prom maestro explains it. the Chc>sterfteld pr·ogram to com- groujJs w no atl' dtssatls!Jed with the Democratic and It<• publican his style I> built a1 oun? t~e .:i:re- n:on knowledge. . man sax ><•cttun that \E::;qun·e 111- So the outfit that Glenn Mtller candidate~ anti nominate une wnc- will reptesenl tne wellale of tht• country. .:.Vll'. Hall per·oonally belil'ved that the ranlt anu llle or wo1 kers 111 Amenca want Hoosevelt to run to1 a th1rd term and nave' · raitn · 111 him. ne a:;sureu nts ltsteners that tne A.l:'. or L. \Will not !IsH: 1 eactwn by splrttlng tile llber:.ll vote by tHil d pal ty tactiC',.· !Ill' progralll Ol the A.r. 01 L. ill tl!P CO!Jlillg jJI'Pdidt•ntial l'lCCtJOn 1:' t::> \do OUl De:;t to elect enough liberal 1 ep- resentativ<•s and wnators to en· ab•e the pre:,JC!'lltlal candidate wnom y., t• ~upport tu fulfill our pro- gtam. · !{etenmg to t{oose\'elt. he predicted that workers through- out the cuuntl y would \support the candidacy of a man who has pr ovcti his sincere devotion to the prin- ciple of con:;c•rvlng American in· stitution\ by chan!'.ing them to meet thP human need:; of today.\ - ·0 Reverend Elliot Urges Attention to 'Inner Voice' Rl'verend Phillip~ Elliott, min- ister of the First Presbyter·ian Church of Brooklyn. N.Y .. ::;peaking at the services in ;yremorial Chapel Sunday morning, urged Union :stu- dents to listen to their \inner voice -the voice of God' rather than to the extemal voice of tlwir f<>llow men. Pointing out that in the life of c•very individual, it b frequently more difficult to heed the voice of God over that of >OCiety, hP advi~ed his lis tenets to take inspiration from the philosophy of the honest prophet who said, \\\'hat the Lord will have said to me. that will I speak.\ He rc>ferred to Mar·tin Luther as one of the many out- standing men of histotT who has bl.'l.'n guidl.'cj by thb; innPr voicP. RrferTing to thP t'ffOl ts of for- eign propagandists to influence our political and religious belid~. Mr. Elliott observed \It is morP es,;en- tial than in normal timt>s that a man not listPh to the voicP wit'h· out, but to the voice within,\ and added that \it will not be until man has acquired the ability to divor·c~> his thoughts from th<' noby voices of men and hear the truP inner voice that we \hall bP fitted to establish a world of frat<'rnity and peace.\ Products for Better Quality Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4~3 121 GENERAL ICE CREAM CORPORATION ~i~ts i~ one of the best in the his- 1 bring,; he1·e on May 11 <10-2 P. M .. to1y uf swing music. Miller points I price six to seven dollars-Plug> is out tnat a clarinet t3.kl'::; the lead i one that has been built up after m till' ~ection. with that in>trument 1 nl3.ny ye3rs of ha.rd \·.o:k. And as and tht• fourth tPnor sax carrying 1' Miller says, \I don't want to be the melody an octave apart, with King of Swing. We want a band the t \\·o altos and the ::econd tenor I that will have a high rating as a tilling in the harmony between the, good- all-around band. giving every two. Th<· bta\s ,-pction compl£>ments ~sen~ th£> proper att£>ntion. I believe this ~ax , etup vdth simp!<> figures I that s.wing, w:ren conside.red as a whtch ar\ l!~htly sup;mrted by the 1 beat, a form or rhythm, w1ll alway~ rhythm. i exet·t its influence on Amel'ican Fur ten \ •·ar~ uftPl he left Noble, I music and will not go the way of :\1illPt Jd,;yed tl'llmb~nP and ar- a''l fads 1;::; some people belie\·e.\ Placement Bureau Receives Plaudits Banner Year Expected: By Placement Bureau Wyatt Is Optimistic \Conditions ~how that chances · for securing c>mployment after~ gradua.tlon aH• much bettpr than I they ha \·e been,\ ~'redelic A. : v\\vatt. din•ctor <If the Student I Pl~cement Bureau, said yesterday.,' :vir. Wvatt indicated that he ex- pPcts this year to be one of the most successful enjoyed by the I Placement Bull'au since its institu-1 tion flve years ago. He attributed I muC'h of the success uf the Bureau to the rapidly increasing intetest 1 of alumni. who have helped a: great dPal in placing Union glad- : uates. Electrical engineet·,;, in pal t icular i are having a banner yeat·, Mr.l \Vyatt pointed out. :!Vlore men who have majored in that field have been placPd than in any previous Y<'Hl. Proportional upturns in jobs have alBo afft>rtcd men who a1·e majoring in othPl' divisions of htudy. Wyatt indicatPd. Thirteen Sports Events Are Scheduled for Week Tue-sday- Varsity Baseball vs. Sy1·acuse. Alexander Field. \\'t•dnt•sday Frosh T1 ack vs. N ott Tetrace Alexander Fielrl. \'a1sity Golf vs. Syracuse. Schenectady. Thursda)'- Varsity Golf vs. ::-.lid- dlebmy, Schenectady. Friday · Varsity Baseball v::; Haverford, away. Varsity Tennis vs. Vermont, Schenectady. Frosh Baseball vs. Troy High. Alexander Field Saturday -Varsity Baseball vs. Swarthmore, away. Varsity T1ack vs. Hamilton, away. Varsity Lacrosse vs. Stevens Tech, Library Field. Frush Lac! osse v~. Worcester. away. Vatsity Tennis vs. Syracusl'. Schenectady. Varsity Golf. vs. Hamilton, at Clinton. tacted Representative of the opin- ions voiced by these companies is the statement from a letter from \Time Magazine\. \Allow me to Fifty - seven business concerns con~·t·atulate you upon the splen- llave responded to his letters. Mr. did wurk of the Bureau in organiz- \\'yatt ~tateci. and H compani~s ing and ptesenting the case his- have wnttcn to the Bureau of the1r tories of the job candidates.\ own ftet• will. To datP. r·epresenta-: The Northwest Mutual Life In- tivc>s ,,f 7-1 business establishments: ,;urance Company concu1 s with l•an· . vtsrted the campus to con- 1 \Time's\ opinion: \This is the first l<·t· w1th :<tudPnts. 1 instance in which a ·really completP :\11, Wyatt ha,; received several , job has been done with respect to lettez s of particular nutc> from t-he ·getting information into the hands businc•ss concetns that he has con- , of pi ospective employe!::;,\ Watch and Jewelry Repairing Engraving JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. ~===========--=-~--~--~-~-=--==~=-=--=·-=~-==~· PHONE 4-5614 LOUIS WASSERMAN Everything Electrical QUALITY JAS. F. BURNS MEAT MARKET ELECTRICAl WORKS 206 Clinton St. Sch'dy, N.Y. 354 B'way Ph. 4-3364, 4-3365 America's Busiest Corner Chicago's Madison and State Streets, where Officers HARRY KLEPSTEEN and THOMAS McGINTY keep the traffic moving. And at every corner CHESTERFIELD is America's busiest cigarette because smokers have found them Definitely Milder, Cool- er-Smoking and Better-Tasting. AMERICAS BUSIEST CIGARETTE ... at every corner Its hesterfield ••• toclay's clelinitely milder • •• cooler- smoking • •• &etter·tasting cigarette When you buy a pack of cigarettes, give it the smoker's perfect quiz ... Is it mild? Is it cool? Does it taste better? If you do that. you'll turn by choice to Chesterfield because Chesterfield has all the answers. Their blend of the best tobaccos grown, their size, shape and the way they burn, all help to make Chesterfield America's Busiest Cigarette. Malee your next pack .chesterfield Copy.t>ight 1940, You can't buy a better Cigarette LIGGBTT & MYERS TOBACCO Co. z y, r ele• boc ing ing the Ne· COl tiOI he! I ele• ret anc Bo· CUI '40. am wh boc I boc eel Arl the Pa· the ret= wh SCL prE au I bee der lia1 of rna c vill Ph fa!. foo bel He lini I is He gol der fro I Jat var He clu wit I Fn ha: He car Up I as cil. lac De ( poi car sec als COl Ps' l cia th€ als Chi of ne1 Tc Si ed1 fot COl vie Un sta at j of gr~ sit\ 19l in~ tat Un Sci ( po: de I bo: tio ica an Pr tUl

