v L ,( ;1 '\ ' I I ; s: I Union Has Summer Stwdents \ \'· LXV, :\lin. 1 • • Attend IS Freshman Camp The Student Newspaper of Union College iL ·....- SCHENECTADY, N.Y., MONDAY, AUGUST 25, 1941 PRICE FIVE CENTS 240 FRESHMEN ARE A(CEPTED FOR '45 Macleish Scores Irresponsibility In ·fiery Address Fox Urges 'Resiliency' On Part of Graduates; Lewis Oration Wins Prize On June 9, the class of 1941 said goodbye to Union College in the traditional, impressive services in the Memorial ;.;hapel. Despite the weekend of reunions and pleasure the sobering effects of an uncertain future were evident in most of the gr actuates. The U'atchford Prize for the best comrnen~ement address was award- ed to John Prior Lewis, with Char·les Bruesch taking the second award. In his Commencement Address the Honorary Chancellor, A1 chi bald MacLt>ish, struck a respondent chmd when he said, \Your· class, not only here but throughout the United States will be remembered as the most talked-at clas~ since the iir:;t divinity student said good- bye to the last cow in the Harvard Lowyard and headed west to con- vert the Indians.\ · Fox Gives Baccalaureate On the preceeding day Dr. Fox m his Baccalaureate address had given the class sorr.ething to think about when, in a review of the cur- ' ent w'o!ld cl'isL;, he said, \What we cli'C determined to preserve is a \\o.ld that gives men the chance to liv..: according to their own enlight- enment that gives them the chance to laugh and the chance to respect the:nsclves as c1 eative human bt'- mgs.\ '·To preserve this world ·by force of arms at this present moment, this world in which we have been an important pattner, is a task greater than any that the Ameri- can people has ever suddenly and .:oo:Jectively undertaken. . . . If we are to make a tremendous sacrifice, tha:t sacrifice must run up and down throughout the whole Amer- Ican people. \Nea1ly every man will make the sac1 ifice of some of his hopes and plans. The only sacrifice you ~1e not c?lled upon to make is that of principle. Whether in camp or in factory, on the field of arms or at the administrative table, you carry the obligation to be cultivated gentlemen, unafraid of anything save breaking the laws of God and the social conscience. You may be called upon to use your Union Col- lege education in most unexpected w:r.ys. My last word to you is an encouragement to 'resiliency,' a readiness to take the buffet of for- tune and bound bacll:. That is the hard test of manliness. and never more than now. For we m.u!lt apply again the words that Thomas Paine st1;uck off when this nation was in birth: 'These are the times which try men's souls'.\ Urges Cru·eful Thought In his Commencement address Archi·bald MacLeish, Librarian of Congress, told the graduates that they were the principal battle- ground of this war. \The true ·bat- tlegtound is not an extent of land at all or even an ocean or a sea, It is larger still . lt is the minds of the young men.\ Urging the graduates to weigh the issues carefully and thought- fully, MacLeish concluded, \What we can demand of you, and what you can demand with even greate1· authol'ity of yourselves, is that you put off the irresponsibility you have learned from us, the irrespon- sibility of those who wear suspicion as an armor and doubt as a dis- guise-those who evade their time by hiding in the cotton wool of doubt and skepticism and refusal. What you can demand with honor of yourselves is this: that you ac- cent the issue history has forced upon you and that you come to your decision on that issue, not by default and not by refusal, but in the full responsible determination to decide your futur·e for your- selves. More than that, no man can ask.\ New Absence Ru:les Call for Record Faculty Changes New Announced by Fox, Bright Men for Have Draft High Academic Rating; Prospect Employment By Siudent, Dean Situation; Student Stl'ictcr abs~nce rules, 1 U!':10I'- ed on lhc campus ail last .>pring, have been announced by Dean .Jha; les F. F. Gari~. D t t H d Miss Travis Finds Work epar 111en ea S Opp'ortunities Excellent; Many Have Summer Jobs President Fox Discusses Effect of the Selective Service Act on Students Sylvester, Codoyannis, Cotzin Named; O'Rourke, Porter, Sunderlin Leave Prospects for student employ- To the Editor of the Conoot·diensis: ment this fall and winter are I am glad to take the opportunity \good Miss Frances Travi::;, Direc- you offer me to say a word to your tor of the Student Employment Bu- readers on college prospects. They require that a record of the student';, attendance be kept in the <lean's effice, each teacher repm·ting daily. Every student will also be responsible for keeping a record of the date of aach absence and the reason for the absence. When- eVPI the Dean shall decide that there is need for special action he shall report the case to the student's adviser, calling for recommendations within one week. Ultimate action respect- ing the student's absence re~ts with the Dean, The appointment of three new faculty members to replace vacan- cies crea:ted by resignations has been announced by Pr·e~ident Fox d.lld the heads of the 1 espective divisions. reau said recently. Applications for The fact is, they are bright and 1all job~ have already been received encouraging on every side, The as- from about 120 men, and Miss sUiance of a Freshman class so Travis believes that she will be able high in numbers and quality is to take care of them as well as something a little unusual among those who may apply after the colleges in this strange year. It is opening of school. unlikely that we shall lose as many Formerly absence records we1e kept .by each professor, and a student was dropped !rom a com·s~ on the recom- mendation of the professor in charge of the field concerned. The administration of the rule varied widely, the language de- partment Iigidly enf01cing it, while the social studies depart- ment as well as other depart- ments took little or no action regarding absences. New Camp Record Set By Freshmen Largest Number Yet Sign For Pilot Knob Weekend Starting on September 5 Establishing a new camp record for attendance, more than one hun- dred forty freshmen have signed up for the class of '45 camp to ·be held at Pilot Knob from Sept. 5 to 9, Professor Wilford H. Ketz, Camp Director announced. The \tried and true\ program which combines athletics, swim- ming in Lake Gemge, mountain climbing, faculty and student talks, informal get-togethers an.d an ''Amateur Night\ will again be fol- lowed. On Sunday undenomina- tional church services will be held in the natural out-of-doors chapel. Headed by Robert W. Muther, '42, the handpicked staff includes: 1942 Solomon Blechman, Charles Clowe, William Kruesi, Robert Reed, Ed- ward Schulze and Clarence Wood- wal d; 1943, Stan ley Davis, Lyall Dean, Jr.. John Douglas, John Dutcher, Paul Dwyer, Norman Fox. Wallace Macmillan, Robert Shep- herd, Carson Thompson, Granger Tripp and Richard Vinick; 1944, Bruce Clements, Arthur DeLorenzo, Robert Haigh, Edward H~nnelly, Melvin Lifset, Rexford Moon, Paul Myers, Milton Neubauer, Junius Stephenson, and Albert RenaldL Every fraternity and almost every campus activity is repr&sented on the student staff. Faculty Leaders Named Faculty leaeiers, which each fresh- man will have a chance to meet, include: Mr. Henry Baker, Sociol- ogy; Professor William Bennett, Economics; Professor Harold Blod- gett, English; Dr. Frederick Bron- ner, History; Professor Franklin Chillrud, Psychology; Professor Augustus H. Fox, Mathematics; Dean Charles F. F. Garis; Professor Harold F. Sylvester, Government; Mr. Robert Stanley, Engineering; Mr. Henry G. Harlow, Civil Engi- neering; the Rev. Herbert R. Houghton, Jr., the college chaplain; Dr. Burges Johnson, English; Pro- fessor Wilford Ketz, Physical Edu- cation; Dr. Vladimir Rojansky, Ph~· sics; Dr. Gordon R. Silber, French and Italian; Professor Everett W. Thatcher, Physics; Pro- fessor Helmer L. Webb, Librarian; and Professor Benjamin Whitaker, Economics. Dr. r:-enjamin P. Whitaker, chair- man of the field Of Social Studies has announced that Dr. Ha.rold F. Sylvester will replace Dr. Vernon A. O'Rourke, as!:listant professor of Go·v'ernmen t, who resigned to takt: the position of associate professor uf Government at Swarthmore Col- lege in Swarthmore, Pennsy·lvania. Dr. S}lve;;ter will teach two sec- tions :;ections of the sophomore in- u oductory government comse, .,;tate and local govet·nment in prac- tice, and he wHI also conduct a ::;eminai in American Foreign Pol- icy. Dr. Danton, chairman of the field uf modern language, has announced the appointment of Gemge E. Con- doyannis to the position of instruc- tor of German He will teach first ,~<ear Getman, German 20, and all scientific German courses. Sunderlin Replaced Dr. Charles h;ugene Sunderlin .lnd Dr. Jermain Doty Porter, in- sll uctors in chemistry, have re- signed to tal\e position:; in other schools. Dr. Sunderlin will become rnstructor in chemistry at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. He and Mrs. Sunderlin, who has resigned from the library staH of the college, have air eady left for Annapolis, Dr. Sun- derlin came to Union in 1938. Dr. Porter, who has been at Union since 1937, will take the position of associate professor of chemistry at Lebanon Valley College in Annville, Pennsylvania. Before coming to Union, Dr. Syl- vester was assistant professor of government at St. John's College in Brooklyn, N. Y. He graduated from Johns Hopkins University and received his Ph.D. ,from there in 1938. His doctoral thesis was written on City Manager Govern- ment, The Flint Experiment. He has served as assistant research director for the Ives Committee on Labor Relations in this state and also as research director for the Penny Legislative Committee. In 1936 he published a ·book of verse entitled \No Dull or Blunted Blade,'' Dr. Sylvester is a boyhood friend of Dr. O'Rourke. They went to school together, roomed together at Johns Hopkins, and Dr. Sylves- tel' teplaced Dr O'Rourlte when he left St. Johns for Union. Columbia Graduate Mr. Condoyannis, a graduate of Columbia in 1935, has taught at Brooltlyn Polytechnic Institute and at Columbia. He has had engineer- ing training and has a working knowledge of scientific German. He received his masters degree from Columbia and has also studied at the University of Vienna. All his wml{ for the doctoral degree has been completed except for his thesis. He was compiling material for his thesis in Italy when the war broke out, and he has not had the opportunity to complete his re- search for the thesis as yet. A new appointment in the Chem- istry Department has been an- nounced by Dr. Charles Hurd, chainuan of the field of chemistry. Dr. Sumner Cotzin, who received his Ph.D. this year from Yale Uni- versity, will take the post of In- l!ltructor in chemistry. While at Yale, Dr. Cotzln studied under Pro- fessor Hill and majored in organic chemistry. Robert Stanley, insti uctor in civil engineering, who was drafted in the spring, will return te his teaching Anangements for campers to post this fall. The War Department slay on the campus Thursday obtained his release on the grounds night, Sept 4, will be made. Total that his post at Union was vital in cost of the camp is $8, rock 'bottom training men in the engineering (Continued on Page 4) , program for national defense. 1155al Summer employment for Union upperclassmen by the military College students has been at an a:ll draft as had ·been feared. time high. The bureau, itself, This is a good opportunity for me placed 58 men in full-time summer to correct any impression that the empioyment, establishing a record, 1 college i;; in the slightest degree Miss Travis estimated that at least opposed to nationai policy when it 80'/c of the student body \are at 1 suppo!ts claims for deferment in r·emuner ative work this :;ummer.\ I selective service made by student:; Inquiry by sev~r·al. sta.ff ~e:-nbers 1 to their. iocal dr·aft .board:;. No one of The Co nco~ dten:;ts has rndtcated 1 is :;eekrng exemptiOn -only defer· that many U~ron men are e:-nployed 1 ment, e::;pecially in the case '?f Sen- on defen:;e Jobs, are takmg the 1 iors. With the recent actiOn of place of men in the draft or are i Congress in mind, whereby the filling a shot tage of labor cau:;ed 1 service period is to ·be two and a by defense work. Salaries earned half years, it is likely that few sol- are said to be higher than ptevious diers will come back to college. We summer employment. feel that theii adjustment to mili- Summer Employers tary needs and especially to later life will be very much better if they complete the college course first. Among the Schenectady organiza- tions taking men from the Student Service Bureau are: New York Power and Light Corp., General Electric Company, American Loco- motive Wmks, Montgomery-Ward, New York Telephone Company, Dearst:~-ne'>'. Greyhound Bus Com- pany, General Ice Cream Corpor- ation, Mohawk Golf Club and the American Express Company. Summer resorts and camps ac- cepting men included: the Hotel Marblehead in Massachusetts, the Adirondack League Club, Deerfield Lodge, Mt. Everett Inn, Dude Ranch at Warren.sburgh, Camp Horman, Boy Scout Camp, Cape Cod Village at Lake George, Trinity Institute and the Well Fleet Camps in Boston. In addition, representa- tives from the st·udent body are working in gas stations, department stores, as laborers,. time-keepers, tutors, farmers and as chauffeurs in private families. During the last academic year the odd job department of the Stu- dent Service Bureau, which will re- open on Sept. 15, answered calls for 1,736 positions. Students desiring to work on odd jobs are asked by <Continued on Page 4) ----0---- CAA, Chemistry Classes Held Through Summer More than one hund1·ed students as well as public and prep school teachers attended the Civil Aero- nautics Authmity and chemistry classes on the campus this summer. Under the direction of Professor Everett W. Thatcher, the fifth group of C. A. A. students to be trained at Union underwent inten- sive training to qualify for primary civilian pilot licenses. Over 40 stu- dents were enrolled in the primary course and 20 in the secondary or !!.dvanced cl~ses. This brings the total of students who have been taught the C. A. A. course at Union to well over 200. The ground school courses were, as usual, given ,by a staff of in- structors in the Union College Physics Laboratory, and the flight training was given at the Schenec- tady Airport. Students from nine colleges as well as school teachers took the extensive chemistry cour·~es. Classes met for a full day, four to five days weekly for seven to nine weeks. A full year's academic credit was offered in general chemistry, quantitative analysis and organic chemistl'y. Colleges tepresented by students included: Colgate, Fordham, Hart- wick, Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Russell Sage, SFacuse, the Univer- sity of Kansas, and Union. Teach- ers came from the Schenectady public schools, Albany Academy and Lyndon Academy in Vermont. Questionnaires Sent During the summer we have cor- responded with 189 students over 21 years of age, asking them (1) if they desired to retwn with their class to College, < 2) lf they were in the uniformed service of the United States, and <3> if they desired us to support a claim for deferment. At the time I am writing <August 15) 131 have replied. Of these 13 advised us that they were not com- ing back, but only 5 of them report- ed that they were In uniform. This leaves ·but 8, or but 6 per cent, who have indicated that they are not returning for what may be called normal reasons, among th<lm our advice to go elsewhere ,because of academic record. This is a lower percentage than usual; but, of course, we have 48 men yet to hear from. One hundred and seventeen, then, have said that they \intend- ed\ to return, but of these 64 have asked that the Union administra- tion write letters to their local draft boards concerning their aca- demic status and prospects. The Dean has taken care of these let- ters for Schenectady students and I have written the others. We may infer that all who have asked for letters are at present in 1a classi- fication. Some Students Deferred As to the effect of these letters we have no way of estimating. We know that ~orne of the students have been deferred because of them; but very few draft boards feel it necessary to reply, and what they are doing no one 'but them- selves ,and eventually, the draitee, can know. We have evidence to show that different boards have de- cided In opposite ways on the same sort of data. On the whole the situation, as far as we can !eat n of it, seems encouraging to those who believe that a man with a full college course is more valuable to the na- tion in· war or peace than one who has only part of it. Cordially your8, Dixon Ryan Fox ----0---- Dr. Haskins to Present Paper Dr. Caryl P. Haskins of Union College will present a paper on \Democracy's Challenge to the Sci- entist\ before an assembly of 1,000 American and Canadian scientists, educators and theologians in de- fense of American democratic cul- ture against the threat of totalitar- ianism, at Columbia University, Sept. 8 to 12. The occasion is the Second Conference on Science, Philosophy and Religion in Their Relation to the Democratic Way of Life. Many Hold Scholarships; Defense Places Trend Toward Science Fields Well over two hundred applicants have been accepted for admission into Union College in the class of 1945, it was announced today by Frederic A. Wyatt, Director of Ad- missions of the college. The num- ber of <>pplicants this year far ex- ceeds that of last year and al- though a larger freshman class is contemplated this year, it is expect- ed to be normal in size. No final figures on the class of 1945 will be available until the opening of col- lege as August Regents marks, en- trance examinations reports, and summer school marks are not yet available. The trend of the class is to- ward science and engineering in view of defense operations, it was felt. Many candidates have been awarded scholarships this year. probably more than any other year in the history of the college. These scholarships are, of course, exclu- sive of those awarded by the Uni- versity of the State of New York on the basis of Regents Examination!! marks. Applications Accepted Miss Frances Travis, Director of Student Employment, has made a survey of jobs open to students and numerous requests for aid have been take;n ca1 e of. Any freshman who desires such aid may fill out a work application blank which can be secured in Miss Travis' office located in the administration build- ing. Work opportunities for stu- dents are at a peak, it was stated by Miss Travis. Part time jobs will be available for freshmen who need jobs. Division of Literature . . . . . . . . . . 13 Division of Social Studies ..... _ 68 Division of Science: Physics Majors . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Biology Majors . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Mathematics Majors . . . . . . 1 Chemistry Majors . . . . . . . . 10 Geology Majors . . . . . . . . . . 1 B. S ...................... 5 Pre-Medicine ............ . B. S. in Physics ......... . B. S. in Chemistry ...... . Division of Engineering: 31 4 18 Civil Engineers ... , . . . . . . . 22 Electrical Engineers . . . . . . 53 Engineers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 74 100 Question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Total . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . 257 Many candidates have been awarded scholarships, probably more than ever before in the his- tory of the College. Miss Travis, the Director of Student Employ- ment, has taken care of numerous requests for aid. With the defense boom, work opportunities for stu- dents are at a peak. In its geographical content the class represents a cross section of the country. Students from thirteen states as far west as California are represented. There is also one stu- dent from British Columbia. The number of Schenectady and capital district students is lower than usual this year. This decline is attributed by the admissions office partly to work opportunities in this area. Sons o-f fifteen alumni are mem- bers of the class. Class Scholarship High In general the class is composed of good students, and the academic competition will be on a high plane, it was thought by the admissions committee. Twelve men in the class were valedictorians of their high school and preparatory school grad- uating classes. A large number stand out as promising matHial for football, track, lacrosse, and base- ball. Personal conferences with mem- bers of thP class of 1945 indicatP that as a whole they are confident in the face of another world war. By far the majority favor aid to Britain, and others would go fur- ther. There is a balance, however, shown by somE' who would be is;ola- tionists.

.. : ..... . . . . . : .... '' .. ' I • • I II • t. ... • : ·: • • • • 0 ..... =··:: :::,o:: : ..... : ... : ... : ~ .. . · ..... •'••o•!:•:•,, Page Two . . .. . . ~~ .. · . . .. :·: .· . : . (llnurnr THE CONCORDIENSIS. MONDAY, AUGUST 25, 1941 Edit•··l'lai unh·e. ::;,;l;m,:IJ ~, 1 ~ 1 Ro.be.rt P. Patters·o.n, lla.ll, l'llll•ll Colh._-g,e. Pub- lil'H.tioll urr;\.'1;', Tla· Ua- II ~t't:lt\ [Jlt'~:,. 3:3'1 ~tdtl\ ~t 1 s p t Eht<ret! ill lhl' ;:;,·.lt•elil'l': I resen Trustee, of War oirustn '12, Union College Dynamic Under-Secretary At the conclusion of the cita- <b·---- ---------~~----- :\h·Inla·r tlf the .. \:--:-.ot·J:ltt·d l~nlh·~ialt· l 1 ll'~!-' .tl!d d!:-.- ta rhll\l nt· ol OH· t't~llv~latt· I )(g-P~t Ht•.Jill~~Piltl·H ftll' :\at1uttal .\f!\'Pl'ti!-.JtJg h\ :\a.t.Iullal. .-\tL\'L•l't i:-.'111~ :-:1'1 v- ke, hal',, Culh•g-:L- Puhlil\\ll~ t·r~ I tqn·l'3t·nta tivv, -l:!H :\ladb(IJl ,\\'l'IIUv, :\l'\\ Ytlrl\. c~ity. \.1 Causa Persa Parole .·! ssai\ latly r-'u~t ()fLlte as St•l'- ond L'la.;;~ .\!ail .\latter. ~uhst•nptiun 5l' a. eopy; $;) YL\\<.ll'; deliYerl'd allY\\'hen~ tll tin~ l'11ite<l ;>tate,;. tions for the recipients of Honor- I Union in the Services I ary Degrees, Dr. Fox aillllounced I that the college i1ad also sought to honor Robert P. Patte1•son, '12, Under-st>crP1ar~· of ·war, but Judgp Patt:Rrson who is a mem- ber of the Boa.rd of Trustee.s, ft\lt that the trustt>es should not honor thPinselvt\s and requl.\sted that his name be withdrawn. Judge Patterson, howevm·, was honored with degrees from both Rutgt>rs and Rochester Univer- and awarded the silver star. And, because of wounds received In ac- tion, he also was a WaJ ded the purple heart decoration, He had a faculty for getting out in front, in times of great danger. ,\nnunli \'. F<•igl'ltlmum .. , , . :-iL•nior Board ,J.u,Un l'<•t:J-1<-iu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ·. ·. ·. 1 ~',',1;,:;,~ 1 ~~ v~~~::=_ 1 j_\..tt\ · ·' · · · · · · · · · · · . , · · · · · · ·, · · · · ~dltor·ln·Chief Sulornon BIN•luuan ... 0 0 •• 0 •• • • 0 ;-, ~llddlt .. • ~l·t·tluu, :\'\nrth L'ull~~gp--- ~~9UtiJ 0 • • • • •o • · o • o o o • • • • Uusules~ l\ln~1UJ~'l•r SltllliH·l I'urtuu~ , ... , , , , .. , , , . . .... , E::q•I•a ::-;.u ll\U.><e-· . 1 . 7331 · ·' '· · · · · • · · · · · · · · · :ll!um~lng I:<l!tur ,Junathun Pt'ttl'~un ................... _.... :--; 1 gu1a Phi 1 'l:..1n·- ~ t-ti:S''l · · · · · · · · o • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• A~~Cfl'Into 1-~tl!tor - ' · · · · · · · · · · · · · .... , , , .• , ••• , . SJIOl'lb 1-.dllur \There may be better administra- tors, in the purely technical sense, in Washington than Pattersmi. It is ver:r· doubtful, howeve1, if there ·is another one so completely han- , est, so thoroughly a man of integ- :Jttlliur Bum:d l~nlw11 li..,~J,,J., Tllt•t!l.t~ ()'t'·nnllul. llal- \1'.\ Fi ... ·ll.1uiJ\I', .l:~t·l. ~I'!Htlz. t·iJ.t.Jig,t·l Tii!•P. ~orman }o',,,\o ~tatf l'hottJ:.!ta.JHit·l'. SH)Jhotnon• Boartl· 'J'itullt.l·:- l'ttllt·tt, \\ 11\Jatn ll:l'lt. .-\1- bt•Jt l~l'~llll'lio Ed\\.tlll ,Julla,;--tlll, .\!lhUI l'a:-t'Dlt.', ~t·yw fl,tlllf' Tltkklllatl. Etl·irur ..... . .,, .. ,.,, ... Hnt'''J FJ,IJhuu<• ~~~r~. sities this J.une. Monday, Augu~t 25, 1941 Edward P. Flynn, \\'ashington correspondl.\nt of \The New Yol'l> Post\ devoted his \Memo\ col- umn to Judge Patterson on Aug- ust 5 and paid him high ti'ibutt> rity. It yvould never occur to any of those who deal with him here to suspect him of tne sl'ightest evasion of subtlety. In the Wa.shingtor. ~cene, he is straightforward a!iiJOst beyond belief. TO THE CLASS OF '45 The Concordiensis is happy ove1· the priv- ilege of IJeing the first o1·gan of the college to greet yotn· entrance into the Union stu- dent body. vVe want you to know that the uppe1·classmen a1Hl sophomores of the college are glad tH have y·ou on The II ill this year to join with us in enjoying the eventful da~·s that the future promises. We have heard that yours is one of the best balanced classes ever to matriculate at Union. While you will have to do very well to equal the 1·ecord of the class of 19.t2 (sic), \Ve know that whatever your aptitudes and abilities, you wili find them brought out to the fullest extent here. Our campus presents an amazing variety of opportunities for self-realization. Our fom· fields of study offe1· the chance to investigate branches of knowledge under the guidance of friendly, intelligent men whom you will find interested in you as an individual. We main- ta-in 1najor and minor varsity teams in al- most all intercollegiate sports, which are con- ducted on a purely amateur basis so that you may go out for any team. An extensive in- tramural program is open to those of you who prefe1· this form of sport. \Ve have a very :successful dramatic group, a progres- sive d iscu;;sinn and debate ;;ociet~·. a very fine Glee Cluu and Choir, se\·eral student publications, an active Christian Association, and a host of other g1·oups. The scholastic averages anu mudest ex- penses of our seventeen fratemities are the best indices to the succe::;s with which they are maintained. They are friendly, hos- pitable places and almost all of you will find the opportunity to join one of them, if so you desire. Fm· those of you who \Vish no fraternity affiliation, there are more than adequate dormitory facilities with friendly proctors and an infinite number of opportun- ities to build your own circle of friends. The sophomore class i::;, of course, looking forward to its rivalry with you, to defeating you in the annual cane rush and tug-of-war, and to sponsoring a more successful class dance than the one that you will promote. You will find this class rivalry conducted on a sensible basis. The first step in your introduction to the Union student body should be Freshman Camp, if your attendance there is at all pos- sible. You will find that its five pleasant days will make your college problems much easier. We are looking forward to seeing ,you all in your freshman caps-and would advise that you stay off the grass when freshman rules begin. THE .. YOUNGER GENERATION\ Several great national dailies have outdone their editorial selYes this summer in state- llll'llb of dl',..pair un·r thl' \IJI<u:k futurl' fac- ing the j'ULlllger ge11eraliun uf lhe Gniteu States.\ We are told by men and women who apparently expected the T!'Nlty of VerRailleR a no \Vil~onia n democracy to emse world stress and difficulty for all time, rather than for the more reasonable period of twenty years, that we must \take the butt of the most set·ious crisis in American history.\ Those of us who are actually membe1·s of the \younger gene1·ation\ know that this shaking of heads over our future is complete- ly unnecessary. We know that the present generation of college student::; and their com- panions, the young working men and women of America, has the brightest prospects and the brightest futures of any generation in any era of Americar1 or world historv. Our g:eneration does not fem· the. powers of nature or of knowledge as did its medieval ancestors. We are not oppressed by the seventeenth century's intolerance and ignor- ance and disease, Ol' by the tyl'l'anous rulers ancl starving poor ancl gluttonous 1·ich of the eighteenth ce11tury. The Ullscrupuluus mi::;- use of the system of private enterp1·ise ancl the fourteen hour wo1·king day and the un- sanitary working conditions of the nine- teenth century have gone forever. We fear no gas light explosions, nor unhealthful homes and places of work, nor trips of more than fifty miles as did om· grandfathers. Our health is p1·otected by a medical sci- ence that has conquered all but a few of man's chronic ailments. Our lives are made increasingly easier and more pleasant by an ever ingenious scientific technology. We are becoming more and more sure in our groping towa1·d both political freedom and economic security for all men in all conditions of life and at all ages. One of the prices that we have to pay for posse::~sing more than any other em in man's history is that of allowing a bloody and des- perate war to affect our liveR, just as other generations have had to pay their price IJe- fore they could enjoy their gain::~. But even in facing this tenible war the sacrifice that we must make is far less and the problems we must solve no greate1· than those faced by other Americans in othet· da;rs. Unlike our Revolutionary ancestors, we do not have to put a price on our heads because we sup- pol't an ideal as airy as that of individual freedom, nor do we have to endure cold or hunger or disease or the ineptitude and self- ishness of leaders who lose by their clumsi- ness almost as much as we gain by our toil. Unlike our Civil War great-grandfathers, we a1·e not called upon to commit fratricide, nor to follow generals who would have been bet- ter in their slippers at home, nor to endure pt·ivilege accorded to others merely due to possession of wealth. True, significant problems face us. No generation that mankind has yet produced has been without its share of problems and sacrifices. We are merely called upon to make ours early. Our generation is, however, able to face its problems and to make its sac- rifices with the fullest equi-pment and with fuller expectation of enjoying the fruits of sacrifice than any generation in the his- tory of America or of the world. ·Of him ht' sa~·s: \Unde1-Secretary of VVar Patter- son started his military ca1·eer, he says, 'by lH'eping my eyes ti ainec on the neck of the man in front of me.' He was a private then it was the summer of 1916 on the M<'x- ican border, I \He was on kitchen police dut~ a::; a trainee at a busine;s man'::; training camp in Plattsburg, N. Y .. I la:;t July when Secreta1y of Wa1 Stimson telephoned and told him he wanted him in Washington. Thb meant resigning fnnn the U. S. Cir- cuit Com t of Appeals for the Sec- ond Circuit, a judicial post only one step removed from the Supreme Com·t. Judge Patterson didn't hesi- tate. The reasons why he would not rationalize f01 one instant a call to duty are implicit in the fol- lowing passage: \Captain Patterson, accompan- ied by two non-commi>'sioned of- ficers, made a daring daylight re- connaissance into the enemy Jines. He sUI·prised an enemy outpost of superior numbers and personally destroyed the outpost. Later he again had an encounter with another outpost, during which several of the enemy were Uudt>r-RN'l'l.\tary Pattt>rson --~~-~-- -------- killed OJ' wounded and one mem- ber of his patrol wounded. The enemy advanced their outposts, and Captain Pattersoa covered the retreat of his patrol, dUiing which he dropped into a depres- sion -and feigned being kiiled in order to escape capture. Her·e he lay until he was able to escape to his lines under cover of dark- ness.'' \Captain Patterson was award- ed the distinguished service cross with the citation quoted above for that extraordinary he1·oism. Fot· gallantry in another Wmld War action, he was again cited \His weakness may be that he is , too considerate, too willing to ac- cept repentance This may explai,n the fact that he has not blacklisted a siagle contractor or :;uppJ.ier in handling billions of dollars worth of War Dept. contracts. He has grown extremely angry at time<>. astonishing his assistants by a f'low of lurid la:nguage tha·t they had not guessed was in him. But ev~n on '·these occasions he dii ect:; his fire at a situation, rather than a man. \There is talk of Patterson be- coming head of a planning and ad- ministrative body that would direct the work of agenc-ies engaged in defense procurement and produc- tion. If the President does create such a board and appoint Patterson to head it, you may be sure thm·e will have been no pressure from Patterson himself. \It is customa-ry for men who seek high posts in the Administra- tion to start their own buildings, to send their friends to see the Presi- dent, to issue statements or indi- rectly to seek favorable publicity. Patterson is so far above such maneuvering that his associates simetimes fear he doesn't even un- de~·stand it -and thus is at a disad- vantage In dealing with bureau- crats.\ s C e fl e In a personal letter, one of the him with football, skiis, tennis rae- men honored by Union this June ket, baseball bat and glove plus a Commencement wrote Cand we quote from rnem- few other odds and ends of sporting . o~·y l: \To tell the truth, I was I equipment. They had thoughtfully , \'-: .~h~ best en~. of th<; eolle;;e · ht;;h~y plPas.ed by the degree.\ ptovided a Tole study lamp, a poll· }ear pic!( me up for ttrt\d and! It Is plt\asmg to nott> that Union's able typewriter, a r·adio, six empty uverwtuught stu~enh, thts culumn 1 high l't'gard tor this tn>tn, a lt•adt•r notebooks and a pt'n and pencil 1 t'l\\mntt·n<b .-ta~ mg fo•· J'ommence- in his lit·ld, was l'Pciproratt•d in desk sd. mL•nt. An A~leltl\~lll custom to .uw ltull h~ hi~» high n•ga1·d lor t:nion. Well lighted by s<'veral lamps. tltl' col'l', lt pt o\'tde,; ooth a good tlnw 1 1 • room was elean('r than any college and a chance to l'\'aluate what I College Information' maid could ever clean it or neater linton ca~ mean to students as I Worth dropping into is the \Col-I than any college boy could ever meas~red 1~ t~; success of return.: liege Information\ center of any ke:p it. The sample didn't spell mg <~lumm .ThP ~.nsurr.essful, mouet n tlepat tment :;toiL'. I PrmrPton, Uni~n or any other col- some?.ne I ema1 ked, . never come Last ) ear we inve~tigated Gim- l<'ge. It was Gimbel's th1ough and back. The, alumm stirred a, pleas- bel's at 33rd St., 6th Avenue and through, ant nosUtlgta for the days 111 the Broadway A lad~ in h •. I· t 40 future when we \cClme back.\ sat at a d. sk . th f er 'ta e d s Gone But Not Forgotten , . , e 111 e urm ure e- .some of the alumm brought their paz tment ready to handle our ues- We are sorry to see P1·ofessor wives who ~pe~t the weekend visit- tions. q and Mrs. Vernon A. O'Rourke go mg the !1a~ermty houses, .atte.nding Union? She pulled out a cata- from our campus to Swarthmore. the .cl.ass dmners and takml? m the logue and answered om· spur of the An able teacher, ~ .g?od story teller, fes~~vllles. T.~at led a fnend of minute inquiries c to which we ar.d excellent politiCian and a keen oms to ask, Do men. attend com- !mew the answers alreadyl by look- student of governm~nt, he richly mence~1en! at, ~ay~ .. Sk1dmore, Sag~, ing them up. Union, we found out, de.serves the promotion he has at- Vassal ana .Smith. Well. do they. didn't intet·est her for you didn't tamed. . . . . need furnitm·e. St:'dents liked to hear his ms1de Spirited Alumnus But shE> had a few quaint and stor.Ies of the New York State 1 curious facts about mo::ot women's Le.gislature, some of them Heck-in- ; colleges as well as a few men's. spired, ; She could tell you the length of . Contacts, he assurerl .us, h~ve al- l the sheet that Dartmouth beds took It>ady ht>P~ madP fot• him w1th tho • i and the colleges which did not al- PE>w machme of Pennsylvania. low tadios .in the room. Incidental Intelligence The furmture department had ar- In case the Chi Psi fraternity ranged two. typical S~ith rooml! wishes to acquire anotlier portrait, and one for a prospective son of the HeaJ•st collection now on sale ·1 Old Na.ssau u.sing \British Oak.\ at Gimbel's has a fine picture of · , The Pr~ncetoman was evidently a Alexandet· Slidell Macl•enzie of i crQc~erJack ~t ev:rything, Besides Philip Spencer fame, for ar~und , · . , 1 furmture, Gimbel s had equipped $425. '' '. ' No, the \younger generation\ does not pine fo1· the \good old days\ which existed only when a convenient thirty or fifty or ~,., .. v· seventy-five years had dimmed over their FRESHMAN LUGGAGE AND LAUNDRY PROBLEM- disease or their narrowness or their fear. It knows that it is not faced with the \most , . ~eriou~ crisis in American history, only \the t . . . . I I. lllo:- :-;l•nous cns1s Ill t wt :-;niall purtiun uf · American history with which we are cun- 1 cerned.\ We do wish, however, that the esteemed editorial writer::; and lecturers who pine over us would follow the example of more en- lightened elders such as the President of the United States. We wish that they would be productive of our thought, rather than de- structive of it. We want them to tell us what we can do and how we can help to put Amer- ica successfully through this period of stress. And we vow that when we become forty or fifty we will be the first generation that does not tell its sons and grandsons that \life is becoming very black.\ I -------- ! Dr. Harry C. Young I This column pay,; .tribute to Dr. I Hnrry C. Young of Hagaman, N. Y. Dr. Young, a member of the class of 1884, never misses a commE>nce- ment nor a good time at one. Enei·- getic and full of fun, he kisses both I the young and old women, leads I the band and ~inging, enlivens the \Old Guard\ and maintains the spirit of youth far beyond the yeat·s at which the othei men grow old. Honorary Degrees Union, unlike many other col-. legPR, ha;; not Rought advancE' pub- licity for its commencPmcnt by re- leasing thP namee of the men or women who are to receive honor- ary degrees. SOLVED! T.1kc a tip from upper classmcn. ForwarJ your luggage tu college hy trtmy, convenient RAIL\'fAY ExPRESS. When you phon~ we'll call at your home for your trunks, bags, boxes, anythmg, .and deliver them promptly and safely at your college, wtthum extra charge in all cities and principal towns. Luw rates anJ you can take your train with peace of mind. And at college you can solve your laundry problem easily and economiCally. Arrange to \express\ the laundry home and back by our quick, dependable service. You can send it collect or prepaid. Just phone RAILWA 1 XPRESS ~~~----· NATION•WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE-----~ p .· ·'. ·J'. ', I I

is c- ' w e- ct C- a- d- c- a ly t- ll' e. 1', le THE CONCORDIENSIS, MONDAY, AUGUST 25, 1941 Page Three Pictures ·of Places and Personalities at Union A CAMPUS MESSAGE OF WELCOME IN LIGHT UN 10 N HOSPITALITY ~ ., I \ - ~ ~· - :· +~ •, I , • t. t \ : ·'. ..t; ' DiiUleJ' in Hale House, especially with companions f.rom nearby colleges is delightful ••. and diff£>rent. IS Senior Professor \Johnnie\ March is more than our senior professor. He is a wit, a character, and a card. FAMOUS TO ALL Class dances and Union-Skidmore parties pro- vide entertainment and fun for all. Many a ro- mance has blossomed forth from such social gatherings. Board Chairman Walter C. Baker, '15, new- ly elected chairman of the Board of Trustees, who has been responsible for increas- ing alumni contributions to the college. Our New Trustee Always taking an active intere.st in his alma mater, Philip L. Thomson, '00, was elected trustee of the college in June. Then They Went Marching Thru Union

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, MONDAY, AUGUST 25, 1941 Freshman Winners! Of Schola~rships I Are Announced List Does Not Include Those Granted Awards By S-tate of New York The following freshmen have been a warded scholarships. These arE' ·exclusive of Regents scholar- ships by the University of the State of :-lew Ymk. A. ;>,ielcher Anderson, Graduate : Council; James Bai-rd. Phi'ladelphia ! Aluml'li; Edward Bates, Charles· Prot-rus Steinmetz; Paul Black, I )iay Case Balter; David Boclt, John II D. Wolfe; Richard Buchanan, W1l- , liam L. Oswald; Frederick Budnilt, i Open: Carl Burmastel, Thomas J.' :.\ta1·vin; Rocco C'alandl'Uccio, Fr_ ank I Bailey, Jr.; Kenneth Canheld; , Schenectady Alumni: Donald Car- I sten~. John D. Wol-fe; James Coap- · man, Walter· S. Gi!for d: Edward ; Craig, William C. Gotshall: John Cu~hman. E. Z. Hawkes Fund Edward Dahlstedt, Siayer L. Cramer: Erwin Dombkowski, WH- Ham C. Gotshall: Hat old Drake \\'illiam AIIPn; Joseph Dusenbury, 'Willis R Whitney: ChaJ:!es Eaton.' Open: Edmond FitzGibbon, James' E. Cu~hing: Thon~as Flynn, Anon}- mou\; John For·d, Albany Alumni·: Leonard Genova, Graduate Council: John Grant, California Alumni; Bennett Grocuck. Anonymous. Wi'lliam Hamilton, E. Z. Hawkes 1 Fund; Robert Hoffman, Frank Ba·i- ' ley, Jr.; Eugene Holte, Thomas J.; Man·in: Malcolm Horton, Levi Par-: som;: Warren Kamm, May Case ' Baker: William Kling, W. Howard I Wright; James LaPann, Open; John 1 Larson. Clarence L. Crofts; Richard Leftwich, Thomas J. Marvin; Al- fred Lewis, E. Z. Hawkes; William O'Brien, Thomas J. Marvin; Rob- ert O'Hara, Ralph H. Ta•pscott; Al- den Opie, Valedictorian. M. Carr Pangburn, Ralph H. Tap- scott; Sc·huyler Seward. Samuel and Mary Jaffe; Charles Shelley, Luella Griswold: Maxie E. Slee, Graduate YOUR Fl RST WEEK AT U'N ION Wednesday, September lOt-h 9:00 to 11:30 A. ;>,f.. 1:00 te 4:30 P. M.-ln the Administration Build- ing. Regb tmtion for the Class of 1945. Thursday, September 11th 10:00 A. M.-In the Old Chapel. Address of Welcome to 1945 by Dixon Ryan ·F'ox, President of Union College. 11:00 A. M.-Meet Yom· Adviser. His office is indicated at the bot- tom of your schedule sheet. 2:00 P. M.-'Psychologica-1 Examination, speed of reading, inven- tory of st·udy habits. Friday, September 12th 9:00 A. M. --·•Achievement Tests. 2:00 P. M.--Divisional Meetings as Follows: Litera tul'e-Room 300; Bailey Hall. Professor Harrison C. Coff-in, speaker. Social Studies-Old Chapel. Pr•ofessor Benjamin P. Whitaker, spearker. Science-Chemistry, Chemistry Laboratm y. Professor Charles B. Hurd, spea·ker. Physics--Physics Lruboratory. Professor Peter I. Wold, speaker. Pre-Meds~ Biology Laboratory. P1ofessor Leonard oB. Clark, speaker. Science ~iajors--106 General Engineel'ing. Dean C. F. F. Garis, :ipea'ller-. Eng-ineering-22 Electrical Labora-tory. Professor Russell A. Hall and Professor Frederick W. Grover, speakers. Saturday, September 13th 10:00 A. :\1. In tho Old Chapel. Coordinator of Student Activities William W. Bennett, speaker. 2:00 P. M.--~:vrechanical Aptitude Test, Interest Questionnaire, Attitude, Questionnai-re. Sunda-:r, Septt>mber 14th 11 :00 A. M.-Service in the ;>,fernorial Chapel. Rever·end Herbert R. Houghton, Jr., College Chaplain, speaker. 3:30 P. M. ---In the Memol'ial Chapel. Talk on the History of the College. Charles N. Waldron, Secretary of the College and of the Graduate Council, speaker. 4:00 P. M.-!n the Memorial Chapel. Organ Recital by Dr. Elmer A. Tidma·rsh, Director of Music. 4:30 P. M.-Tea and Reception for the Class of 1945 a-t the horne of President and Mrs. Fox. iUonday, September 15th 8:00 A. M.· Classes 10:10 A. 1\1.- Academic Procession and formal opening of the !47th year of Union College. Freshmen assemble in the balcony of the Memorial Chapel. * These tests are required of all freshmen and become a part of your college record, They will be given in the room indicated on your schedule. Freshmen To Be Given Psychological Tests Council; Charles Smith, Prepar- Coincident with the program of a tory School; Louis Steege, Anony- or-ientation week on the campus, a mous; Charles Stewart, Open; AI- series of examinations will be given bert Taggi, Charles Proteus Stein- all freshmen. It is compulsory for metz; Alton Taylor, William Allen; all freshmen to talle these examin- Ralph Van Duzee, James E. Cush- ations and failure to do so will re-- ing; Chester Zabielski, Spencer suit i~ prohibition from attendance Eddy. at classes. The examinations will Stanley Aronoff, Baltimore Poly- be given on Thursday, Friday, and compared with his classmates and with students taking the same tests in other colleges. Some of these same examinations, at least in type are given in the sophomore year. A comparison between the two may indicate how much the student has learned in that period of time. The examinations will ·be given in the lecture hall of the Butter- field Chemistry Laboratory, room 106 in the Civil Engineering build- ing, and room 202 in the Physics Laboratory. The examination on Thursday will be from 2 p, rn. to 5 p. m., on Friday from 9 a. m. to noon, and Saturday from 2 p. m. to 4 p.m. technic Institute; Robe>rt Bartlett, Saturday, Septem\ber 11-13. William C. ·Gotshall; Reginald Car- roll, Open; Peter Fin a, William C. The types of examinations to be Gotshall; Jack Hockman, William given include scholastic achieve- C. Gotshall; Marvin Isenberg, S. S. ment and mechanical aptitude tests Wakeman; Lee Landes, Open: Wil- plus a test in ·both personality and liam Marzluff, Rochester Alumni; vocational guidance. No prepara- John Mason, Open; John McCarthy. tion can or should be ~one. In ~he Frank Bailey, Jr.; Robert McNulty, achieve:ne~t te~t questwns relat~ng Maurice Hoopes; Borden H. Mills, I to th_e socr~l scrences, math~matrcs, J1., Open; John O'Connor, Horace physrcal sciences, and English will B. Silliman; Robert Schamberger, I be asked. Also a test on general Open; Justin Scheer, Samuel and I information concernin~ cu7rent ::\1ar·y Jaffe: George Stark, Walter, events and culture questiOns wrll be S. Gifford; Thomas Walworth, 1 given._ The tests are graded by an G:-:1duate Council. ' electncal scorer.. ~hey serve _the 0 I pur pose of acqua1 ntmg the advrser GAZETTE PRESS Printers I with the students, and give the stu- Miss Travis Says Fall Winter dent information about himself. E I t P 't G d ' ~~h~ey~-~s~h~o~w~· ~w;:·:h~er~e~h~e;;;~s·t~a~n~d~s;;;w~h~en~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~l mp oymen rospec s oo . • ~on tin m•c.i fi um Page 1 J ::.vi iss Tr·avi~ to 1 f'gister before the openmg date. Uver 1000 letters have been sent out by ::.vliss Travis to patr·ons ·of thP bur·eau urging that they again give their support this year. The rate charged has been upped from thirty-five cents to forty cents an hour. Miss Travis said that the bureau is working daily with students on applications, both by letter and personal contact. She also announced the names of students who will be in charge of the fall agencies, to be operated under the direction of the Student Courtesy of- M.GOLD&SON ELECTRA GISTS 619 State St. Phone 3-2179 Employment Bureau. Assigned ~;;;;;;~;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ agencies and their agents are: laundry to Avery Beer, '42; maga- 1 . zinf's, Samuel Trull, '44; game agency, Willard Taylor, '42; food route, Emmet Evans, '43; shoe agency, Albert M. Kronick, '44; \Herald-Tribune\, Richat·d Hoff- man, '43; and cleaning, Edward j Green, '43. Additional agencies wi11 1 be assigned later. Still Union's Favorite at our New Location Union's Favorite for Years-and Waiting to Serve You Again BRANDHORST PHARMACY \ON THE CORNER\ UNION ST. and GILLESPIE Prescriptions home-made ice cream Phone 4-6202 Listen to your favorite Records in our Air-Conditioned Booths Victor - Columbia - Decca Okeh - Bluebird Also all accessories such as needles, albums, rack~, etc. I I ~~~~~-~--~--~-~U~n.~io~n~.-s~-~S~Io~g~a~n~fo~r ~N~e~.a~t~n~es~s~~~~~~, \'Call Ball and Ball's Will Call\ Exclusive Representative for Capehart and Magnivox RCA and PHICO Dealer Cluett & Sons 508 State St., Hotel Foster Bldg. 633 State St. TWO STORES P.hone 6-3456 204 Union St. I Largest Freshman Camp • Begins September 5th rContlnued from Page 1l in comparison with other freshmen camps, Professor Ketz said. Campers in former years have praised the idea in back of the weekend and have caHed the loca- tion \ideal.\ The have pointed to student-faculty and student-student contacts made as being of special value. They have a-lso caJ:led the weekend a pleasant transition from life. Busses wHI leave from the Mem- orial Chapel on Friday, September 1 5th for Pilot Knob on Lake George, where the camp site Is situated. FoHowing lunch, there wili -be talks ' by professors to the students in their divisions. A discussion of good English and literature by Professor Blodgett followed by ath- letics will conclude the afternoon program. In the evening Professor Johnson wi'll speak on \What the I First Year of College Can Mean to You.\ Oamp Program On Saturday morning Professor Fox will speak on scholarshi•p and Professor· Chillrud will discuss , methods of studying. Fol10wing I lunch and swimming a group dis- 1 cussion of gene1.al coHegc problems will be held. Group athletics will occupy the remainder of the after- noon, In the evening P1ofessor Bronner will give a talk on fratern- ities and social life at the college. Professor Bennett will discw:s the Student Tax Committee on Sunday morning. This will be followed by undenominational services in the natm a! outdoor chapel at the camp. A short program of athletics will be conducted in the afternoon. Dur- ing the day other students and pro- fessors will visit the camp. An early morning hike up Buck Mountain will feature Monday's program. In the afternoon Dean Alexander of the Albany Law School and Dr. Faust of the Al-bany Medical College will discuss their Cam.p Director Fraternity Presidents Alpha Delta Phi-Kendrick Ralph Alpha Phi Del-ta--Ral-ph Matarazzo Beta Theta Pi-John Grow ·Chi Psi-Robert Ba•ker Delta Chi-Norman Bergan Delta Phi-Robert Nothacker Del·ta Upsilon-Emlen Hutchins Kappa Alpha-Avery Beer Kappa Nu-Justin Perlstein Kappa Sigma-Robert Erickson PROFESSOR WILFORD H. KETZ . Phi Delta Theta-WH-liam Garcia Phi Gamma Delta-Clifford Bow- dish respective pr ofessioBs with students preparing in these fields. IB the evening, the last night at camp, an amateu-r night program wiN be con- ducted with each tent presenting a skit. The winner will receive a prize. On Tuesday busses will leave for the campus at 9:00 a. m. and wil'i arrive in Schenectady shortly be- fore noon. Those students who arrive in Schenectady before 5 o'clock on Thursday evening may go to the Comptroller's 0ffice and adequate facilities will be provided for stor- ing baggage and providing a place to sleep that night. ----0--- REGISTRATION Freshmen register on Wednesday, September 10th. Sophomores regis- ter on Thursday, September 11, and Juniors and Seniors register on Fri- 1 day, September 12. UNION MEN Phi Sigma Delta-Lee Sherman Phi Sigma Kappa-Benjamin Le- land Psi Upsilon-John Bass Sigma Chi- William Coates Sigma Phi-Jonathan Pearson Theta Delta Chi-WiHiam Wel'ler UNION FRATERNITIES Pl,an now for this Fall Give your men Superior Quality • Ice Cream • Milk • Cream • Eggs • Butter • Cheese • As only we have it Bellevue Dairy 729 Broadway Phone 6-1248 news from home • • HIH HOME SuPPLEMENT his meager letters by subscribing to The Concordien- sis, the newsy twice a week college newspaper. Follow his college life as well as the college careers of his frater- nity brothers and fellow students as they are chronicled on the general news, the editorial and sports pages, in the news, social, humor, scien- tific, and sports oolu~ns of his student newspaper. Keep up with the doings of his faculty, the administration of his college by reading the only Union student publication that is devoted solely to news of Union and Union students. 60 issues c of which this is the first) mailed the afternoon of publi- cation direct from the press 10om cost but $3. We will bill you in the fall. MAIL THE COUPON TO: THE CONOORDIENSIS, UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. r--------------------------------------------------- 1 I I I I I I I I . SEND Name Addresc CitY~--- FOLLOWS PICTURE TO: HIM BY TYPE THROUGH AND UN I 0 N D1 For For Ca Arr Wl Better team sl men \ha good e!E Art Lav but a,; mitted t ing gai opener · Leit j man re 1om· bal and an sever a! of corki yea! s f1 a half ' serves c around When venes a fir::t cl:r for abo mto the veteran ior lett veteran but at from I< looks a1 for the Johnny There i dates. If a hung o\ plead .f1 a fleet \climax Union 1 punch. veloped Vannie1 ~ear's t Fullb: and it renee a their s< Eddie Bruce 1 200-pou the job itely to terback sensati< rampag the wh< of the Wher: duties spring, year's more l have dl hasn't in his i deadly of the : ago. G chance varsity be givE next m Senio Sherry back w fall ant If Hill ~Jhould Walt G promis1 spraini stai tin! more Don Q1 if he p Quar Sherm! Sh:;ll pe the pi season against a big man w First might· seem t deeper, serves- fortum and otl ing. B have p Capt: starter old ru Big S1 lettern: Shaw, land, v cause town g there's Cent• year's the an don S Ralph, startin praise for hh light. end or·

THE CONCORDIENSIS, MONDAY, AUGUST 25, 1941 Page Five Dutchmen May Come Up With- Fine Eleven This Fall <$>---- --- - - - Forty-Five Candidates Invited For Opening Dr!iU September 4 Capt. Bob Baker Among Lettermen Who 'II Return ~------ Better not sell the Union football team short this fall! The Dutch- men have thu ma-kings of another good eleven, though in fairness t0 Art Lavnence, who 11 malce his de- but a,; head coach, it must be ad- mitted that there are sevetal ~a'Nn­ ing gaps to be filled before the opener with Trinity Sept. 27. . Lelt over fl om the Nels Nttch- man regin1e a1 e nine Jettermcn- tour backs, two tackles, two guards and an end. Lawrence ·brings along seve I a! fair Hncmen and a couple of corking good backs h·om his last yeat s freshman team and thet e are a half dozen other experienced re- ,;erves of last fail's varsity hanging Football Schedule Trinity, awa3- . . . . . . . . . . Sept. 27 Hobart, home . . . . . . . . . . . . Oct. 4 MJddlebury, h&me . . . . . . Oct. 11 Vennont, away ......... Oct. 18 R. P. I., home .......... Oct. 25 Williams, away _ ........ Nov. 1 RochestH, homt> ........ Nov. 8 Hamilton, away ........ Nov. 15 All home games tJo be pla~ed on Alexander field. Frosh H,arriers Have Three Meets around on the fringe. Freshmrw c1 oss-count1 y practice Yery Few Ends will get underv.ay soon after rcg:s- tratlon day a-m! Coach Bill Ketz is Can La-wrence Replace Them? ·.- .... : . . :· ····~-· .. · .... , •>:,, .••• \ ... , . .,,..,.__,.,.,._fu.@W-¥%1 Two great badts whose loss by graduation is going to be sorely felt this fall art\ Co-Captain Jaclt (Peaches) Vannler, triple threat halfback, and Quarterback Biclt Balch, left and right respective- ly above. Both managed to gain all-state mention during their three-year varsity cart\er.s at Union. Hazy Harrier Vista Puzzles Ketz; Big Squad Reports September 10 Uni·on Ace Stars But North Loses Captain-Elect Bob Newton of next spring's varsity lacrosse team played about 15 minutes in the an- nual North-South All-Star ga-me at Baltimore early this summer. Though Union's long, lean de- fense star p'layed a .pretty fail game, his Northern teammates couldn't overcome the greater ex- perience and polish of the southern ten and lost, 7-6. Newton was the second Dutchman in as many years to be chosen for the Northern All- Star combination. Co-Captain Jack Gui-bet t of last spring's team played in the 1940 contest. Lacrosse practice wiH begin ·soon after the start of school this fall and continue more or less through- out the wintet·. Until' snow -falls, Coach Fred Wyatt wi.lJ have his charges out-of-doors on Library field for daily sessions. Then he'll ot·der skuH sessions and stickwork in the gym once 0r twice a week thiOughout the winter. Freshmen will be included in all this practice schedule. Coach Wyatt is anxious to build a strong fresh- man team to offset the weakness of the 1944 contingent, which was the weakest in several years. Wya,tt is aiming high for his var- sity this year. The team which car- ried through to the best record in five years this past season will be coming back to him nearly intact next spring, though several vital spots will be left vacant by the graduation of such men as Co~Cap\ tains Guibert and Dud Holmes and Cub Eleven T ac·kles Four Ga.me Slate Lots of Material For Good Team If All Turn Out This fail's freshman football team could ,be a corker. Much will de- pend upon whether all year-lings with prep school and ,high school gri'd experience tllln out -to answer Coach AI Ciampa's call, for talent, which he'll probably issue about September 10. Four games have been scheduled for the cub eleven and they'll prob- ably all be tough ones, if past per- ' formancl's of the opponents h\'ve any ·bearing on this fall's aggrega- tions. Probable highlight of the season Will be the first game in his- tory with the Hamilton freshmen. Open at Middlebury Opening game of the season for the frosh will be with the Middle- bury freshmen at Middlebury, Vt., on October 11. Three home con- tests will follow it. The cubs wiii seek to break the two-year suprem- acy of the R. P. I. yearlings when they meet in Schenectady on Octo- ber 25. The following week they'll play host to Hamilton and then the season will close with Morrisville's ever-powerful Aggies playing here November 8. When Lawrence's vatsity con- crossing his fingers in hopes that venes at 10 a m. on Sept. 4 for i-ts the call for candidates will bring first drill, the crying need will -be another large team to the colors. for about two good ends to step Last fall's cub haniers were jus_ into the picture alongside the Jon~ a:bout the finest Ketz has had un- veteran wingman, Bob Davis, a sen- der his ample wing since the days ior letterman. Bob Hallenbeck, a when Paul Santoro, Frank Mele- veteran senior, may ·be a starter wicz and the boys ran as freshmen. but at ptesent Doug DeWeese, up That was five years ago. The tee- from last ~ear's heshman squad, ord of last fall's team showed two looks as if he has the inside tra-ck victories in three meets. The lone for the other end position. Long defeat was somewhat of an upset Johnny Adamzevich may get a cal!· at the hands of a dark-horse R. P. There is only a handful of candt- I. freshman outfit at Troy. dates. Three meets, the usual numbet. Two Mell Quit Others Ineligible; Qllinn, Conly Back ~ \ Fier~ Ed Ward. . for out-of-town meets and there are This summer Captam-Elect New- Coach Ciampa will be out to im- prove on last .fall's frosh grid rec- ord of one win in four games. He succeeds Art Lawrence, new head football coach, who tutored last year's yearling eleven to a 1~-8 vic- tory over Kent school in its opener, but then saw his charges toppled by Middlebury's freshmen, 20-16; the Morrisville Aggies, 6-0, and R. P. I.'s neophytes, 12-0. If a \he:p wanted\ sign W£'l'e are on tap for the freshman run hung out at the gym today, it would nets. After several weeks of drill- plead .for those two ends and also ing on the three and a half mile a fleet-footed gent known as a course, the Ketzmen will open their \climax\ runner. It seems that season on October 11 against Can- Union needs to develop its scoring ton State school here. R. P. I. will punch. Two halfbaclrs must be de- send its freshman team over to veloped to teplace Co-Captain Jack Schenectady on October 25 and the Vannier and Georgie Norris of last yearlings will close their campaign ~ear's team. at Williamstown against the Wil- three of them. ton, Coach Wyatt, Joe Paul, Bobby Thet'e wasn't much question fol- lowing last season that Union's cto_s-country fmtunes were on the upturn. Only two men were grad- uating and the freshmen were tops. Now there seems to be some doubt whether the harriers actually will be able to resume the winning habit they lost two years ago. Figuring near the top in Mentor Panoff and . several oth.er ?aggate- Ketz's plans right now are Dick way entJ::usiasts have mshtuted ~ Conly, lanky former member of the new pastn~e m Sc~en~ctady. The:Y class of 1942, who'll return to play tenms, substitutmg !~crosse school after a year working, and racquets and ?alls for tenms rae- Track Captain-Elect \Doc\ Orton. q_uets and t~nms balls. Re~ular ses- The latter, a senior, came out for stons of t?rs sport have rr;n~roved track for the first time last spring the shootmg of all partiCipants, and burned up the cinder paths in Coach Wyatt has declared. Fullback material seems plentiful Iiams freshmen on November 1. and it Is here that Coaches Law- Before their opening meet, the renee and Ralph Semerad may find cubs wi-ll doubtless run several their scoring wallop. They'll have practice races against the varsity. Eddie Enstice \Bud\ Green and Last ye:;tr's freshmen gave the var- Bruce Burns and will ptobably give sity harriers several fine battles 200-pound Lee Sherman a fling at -and started a rivalry which may the job before assigning -him defin- continue close this year if a goodly itely to his regular ·blocking quar- contingent of frosh 1eports for the his mile and half-mile specialties. o He hasn't signified definitely Teammates Wish Lawrence Luck whether he intends to run cross- country. ----o•--- terback chores. Enstice was the sport. sensation of Union's early-season rampage last year, while Burns was Houghton, • 15, Dies; Was All-American Unexpected losses have been hit- ting Coach Bill Ketz one after an- ot-her ever since last Christmas. First came the blow of Ken Suther- land, outstanding freshman runner, flunking out lruot mid-year. Then Captain-Elect Paul Quinn left school via the same route. That was all for a while and Ketz still cherished hopes of picking up the pieces. A pair of fl-eshmen, Herb Adams and Bob Heywood, may be -a 'big help to the Garnet running combin- ation this fall. Adams showed a lot last year and Heywood has poten- tialities. Ranlcing with them as pretty good bets for places in the first eight are Stan Dav-is, Bob Shepard and Charley Snell. the whole freshman backfield much of the time. Will Be Passing When he tool<: over the coaching duties from Nels Nitchman last spring, Lawrence stated that this year's eleven would probably do more passing than Union teams have done in the past. He probably hasn't changed his mind. One cog in his passing machine may be the deadly arm of Green, one-man gang of the freshman eleven two seasons ago. Green didn't get much of a chance to show his wares with the varsity last fall. but will probably be given ample opportunity in the next month. Seniors Bob <Red) Killian and Sherry Hillick altetnated at half- back with Vannier and Norris last fall and may be starters this year. If Hillick's punting improves, he ~Jhould be sure of a regular berth. Walt Galuszka, who showed Jots of promise as a freshman before spraining his ankle, may win a stat ting halfback position over more experienced hands. Speedy Don Quig:ey may also get the call, if he puts on weight. Quarterbacks will probably be Sherman and California Ken Sh::u pe. The latter rocketed into the picture as a sophomore last season and ran the team so well against Hamilton that he could be a big factor this fall. Karl Klar- man will also see some service. Line Not Bad First glance at the line prospects might be disappointing. There don't seem to be many reserves. Prying deeper, one finds that there are re- serves-a great many of them. Un- fortunately several are very light and others may need Jots of season- ing. But they are there and they have potentialities. Captain Baker is a definite starter at guard, flanked by his old running mate and letterman, Big Stew Goldblatt. Tackles are lettermen Abe Dorsman and Bundy Shaw, backed up by Doug Slinger- land, who didn't get his letter be- cause he was ineligible for out-of- town games last fall. Then at end there's n·avis. Centers are scarce. Since last year's regular, Bud Sawyer, is in the army, it seems likely that Gor- don Semerad, brother of Coach Ralph, or Frank Jones will get the starting pivot berth. Jones won the praise of the whole coaching staff for his work last year, but he is light. Semerad would rather play end or fullbslclc, Howard Parson~, Several weeks ago Ketz heard that little Dave Van Dyck, most One of Union's all-time basketball consistent runner he had on the greats died July 24. He was Ernie ft eshman squad last fall, has de- Houghton, '15, who was twice cided to stay out of school for a chosen All-American while playing year. Now it appears that the on the Garnet quintets just before crowning blow has been delivered the war. and Ketz can finally get the season Houghton was born in Schenec- underway with the knowledge that tady and graduated from Union in nothing more can happen to him 1915 after a stellar athletic career. He just received the news that He played baseball and football be- Jones, a potentially great sopho- sides basketball. more runner, has been operated on After graduation he roarhed bas- 1 for hernia and will be out for the ketball at Albany Academy and season. Peddie Institute. In 1918 he went to 1 Eighteen men have been invited Rochester to become an agent for back for practice, which will start a large insuzance company. He had at 3 o'clock on Sept. 10. Coach Ketz resided there ever since. isn't sure how many of those in- center on the yearling eleven fall, is another possibility. vited plan to run. last Captain-Elect Quinn will probably return to school and that will brighten the cross-country outlook considerably. But he'll be ineligible Henry Sturges, another promising sophomore, is ineligible for road contests. However, he and veterans Bo·b Reed and Barney O'Neil, both seniors, will mean a lot to the team if they can get into shape quickly. Jim Purdy will be another valu- able asset if he Jives up to one or two good performances he's given. Varsity harriers Will open their ~eason Oct. 4, running the Univer- sity of Vermont at Burlington. The next Saturday is an open date, fol- lowed on Oct. 18 by a meet with Middlebury, at Middlebury. On Oct. 25 the Dutchmen will entertain R. P. I.'s varsity on the Alexander course in their fitst home meet. Then they travel to Williams on Nov. 1 and return to close their season against Rochester at Sche- nectady Nov. 8. It will -be the first cross-country meet with the latter school in several years. :!.llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 111111111111111111111111 = Reserve guards and tackles are plentiful, but for the most part light. Howie Berger, Dick Hoff- man and Art LeRoy were depend- ~tble second string guards last fall and will be joined this season hy Cliff Platt and Bruno Schulze up from the freshman ranks. Coach Lawrence likes the looks of Greg McKennis, ';ophomore tackle pros-- pect who didn't play freshman ball _ last year. He will also have Hal Zulauf, Clarlc (Tiger) Alberts, and Harvey Kayne up from the cub eleven. There are other candidates who may quite likely show promise, but Lawrence is reserving judgment on them. Supplying Union with everything musical Records Sheet Music Victrolas Radios CASSEDY'S 460 STATE STREET Near Proctor's - - - - - - - ~ ~ - - - - - - ''HEY'' .. we•tt meet old and new alike down at TONY'S UNION INN 517 UNION ST. - - - - - 51111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliF. His former teammates of the 1927 Schenectady High school eleven, on which he played center, recently gave Art Lawrence a \good lucl'\ banquet in Schenec- tady. for ARROW SHIRTS r-----------------------------------------------1 I ''~~,/},/)14,, BUYS THE BEST : I -IJ~ ... GIFTS THAT ARE t I ALwAYS TREASURED ! I I ! When He Goes to the I I JAY JEWELRY co. I I CORNER OF CENTER AND STATE ! ! ________________________________________________ ! WE CATER TO UNION COLLEGE BELLEVUE DAIRY 729 BROADWAY PHONE 6-1248 For Your Fraternity's Dairy Needs- CLOVERLAND CREAMERY MILK • BUTTERS • CREAM EGGS CHEESE ICE CREAM 919 STATE ST. PHONE 6-8104 A Good Habit to Acquire-An Occasional Visit to Union•s Favorite ACME BARBER SHOP Where Service is a Pleasure 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525

Page Six Union Celebrates Payne,s Birthday Exercises at Motm:rment Pay Tribute to Author 0/'Home Su:eet Home' l.Jnknown to both the 1 adio sing PI'>' who fi'Pf!l!Pntl~· hnwl .Tnhn Hnw-~ ard Payne's famed \H01ne Sweet Home\ out into the ethe1· or to thf' m·illinn< whn hr:Jr it stmg rarh year is that Union is \the home\ of the song which has endeared itsel.f to music lovers everywhere. Pay.ne's connection with Union was brought to the f01 e when fol- lowing the commencement exer- <'iae.s, an acadenuc p1 ocessien marched to the Payne Gateway to celebrate the luCth anniverJ:u·y 0! his bi1 th. Tho~p who participated in the program included Colonel Thatcher T. P. Luque~·, grand· nephew of Payrw; ,1,11\. Ccllhllan Hts lop, co-editor of t:w definitive edi- tion of Payne's C3 play~; and Pre~i­ dent Fox. A wreath \'.as plaeed on the monument and \i !em. c. Sweet Home\ was chantPd I y the senio1 class. Dr. Nott and P •• ~nP Presented bl' \V1lliam Coll'man the editor of ·\The· L;vening Post\ to Mr. John E. Seamen, a wealthy New York gentleman interested in lite1·ary and artistic matters, Payne wa;o sent to L'nion in June of 1806 bv Seaman. D1. N ott had been op- p~sed to having Paynp enter Cnicn: for he fea1·ed to undertalw tlw moulding and instl'uction of :<uch an unu~ual vouth. To what ~xtremes Dr. Nott went to prevent Payne's coming in con· tact with influences othet· than hit own may be judged ft om a lettet of Payne in which he writes: \I am his companion at col.Jege, his 'chum as they call it. and even sha·re his bed. These distinctions- ate n1ost gratifying. I hav(' the rank of a ~tudent but am secluced from the other ,;c.holars undet tht• pt ivatc and particular ca1 c fJf Dr. Nott \ \'1/riting th1• Poe-m Payne, ;n his earlier years, was subjPct to fl'pquent attacks of the \blues or \fits of hypo,\ as he often spoke of his ailment;•. It is to on(' of these \fits of hypo\ eggta vated by illness and confinement that we arP indebted for a poem which, in thE' light of after events hecomes of thP greatest interest and importance. Alone in his toom one dav in tlw fa 1 1 of 1806 during thP h~ight of an illllt'SS, his thoughts turning to his friend;• and familv at homP. he followed his na- tural· inclinations and gave uttet·- ancP to his ft>elings \by nduC'ing the p!Pasures of home to dogget·pJ.\ The poPm written at that time wa,; included among the papers of Harmanus Bleecker of Albany, a friend and patron of Payne dur·ing his college course, and it subse- quently found its way to the library of the I\OIIPg-e where it wa\ first brought to light and published in 1913. This poem entitled \Home. Dear Home\ is the immatmp ex- prPssion of those sentiments which yearR after culminated in the mas- tet\piece that was to make the name of its author immortal. Thus, Union College becomes thP home of \Home Sweet Home.\ -- --- 0· NOTICI<: The dormitories will be open fot occupancy on September 8th. All freshmen w.ho plan to go to camp may leave their ba~gage and bed- ding in the rooms bef01e leaving for the camp. In Schenectady ifs for Shirts . i THE CONCORDJENSIS, MONDAY, AUGUST 25, 1941 De9ree Recipients and PC)yne Celebration UNIO,N COLLEG:E BOOK STORE Complete Line ofT extbooks and Supplies for All Courses • Ring Book Covers 8 Spiral Notebooks 8 Desk Sets • Desk lamps • Laundry Cases • Cdleg:e Banners These men received ~--~­ ·--- -··----------·------------- \ College Seal Jewelry ° Fountain Pens Honorary Degrees at the 146th commence- ment exercises in June. T a 1 <ing part in the Payne Anniversary Celebration were Pres- ident Fox, Miss Eloise Luquer, Col. Thatcher T. P. Luquer, J. Leslie Schoolcraft, and Cod- man Hislop, '3 I. 9 Greeting Cards • Union Sport Shirts and Jackets 0 Rental Library Regular Hours 8:45 - 12:00 I: 15 - 5:00 I st 6 Weeks Hours 8:45 - 12:30 I :00 - 5:00 Saturdays: 8:45 • 12 Noon NORTH WING- WASHBURN HALL ------------------------~---------- .-----------------------i I r:=========\ij I I I I I ! In the Army? ! i I I I t I I I Wl~P Q.Inurnrb irunia 1 I I I will be mailed to you ~~ I free of charge. Let us I . I have your name and ad- I I dress. ! I I I I L ______________________ J I UNION MEN Start the year off right Keep your clothes properly clear:~ed and look neat • GARNET TAILOR 605 Liberty St. Phone 4-0 122 • Don't wait - plan now 8 Buy this year's dairy products • Where you know you get the best LOOK FOR THE General Ice Cream Corp. 710 Eastern Ave. Phone 4-3121 Liven up your room for the coming year! CLARK WITBECK CO. HARDWARE 416-41 8 State St. We Deliver Phone 4-4161 Qualify Hardware Since 1870 G. E. Mazda Lamps, Floor Wax, Pocket Knives, Kitchen Cutlery, Clocks, Tools of All Kinds, Pyrex, Hose, Valdura Paint and Enamel, \Yale\ and \Sargent\ Hardware. • What do you look for In a barber shop- Just a barber there To cut the mop? Or are you fussy About your hair So as to keep your scalp From getting bare. If the latter is you As it should be, Then go see Art And you will see The best job done Believe you me! • ART'S BARBER SHOP Nott Terrace . I I I IJI Plan now to get this year 1 S • Fresh fruit and vegetables • Fresh butter and eggs • With free delivery at J. S. HANDELMAN Quality Groceries and Meats Please inquire about details. PHONE 6-6016 920 STATE ST. Get acquainted at Union's popular store GUERRA 11 S PHARMACY - We Deliver - 600 Union St. cor. Barrett Simply Phone 6-9419 THE I D 0 L - a Union College tradition of fun and friendship- We, too, have our traditions - of good service, good food. and good liquor - and of service to Union. Van Curler Tap Room Vol. No, le• Fo1 Us Pa 01 A sl States war E yester Ryan lege F Ameri meet 1 vartm used for tb tive C In ! Dr. Fe action in cor inc rea the AI by th Here· only gency The Colleg standi motiv• restor preser emerg stanti: will I shrub I til tin The tion Board meeti1 physic were ern me ern me ly dec Pre: lege the ir porar; bring stit ue: tinuec fen,!; a all at disloc. cident with · ly the perm! tant a The nally to gr until ing th mon remo\ ture t room.!: amust versia a band ices o 'I'he pany over vide I emplc park The r is but Do DiE Pri· Ernst of El mer I ing, I3erg day Lowe ulty, at ten• ThE Jr., c ciatet came ciatN only as he ment, Boan name tt·ical Pro of th• chair: ginee retire winte Jerse. dinne City. Frc

