vs . vs·. W·est Rev. Chap- L. for Civic A. Elmer Bu- Hal.I. • Sophomores To Dance March 15 Z-511 Vol. LXIV., No. 29 Pro·m Com;m,ittee To Poll Campus On Band Choice Group Lists Ten Bands To Appear on BaUots Distributed Tomorrow , The Junior Prom Committee has, been investigating the avai'lability · of various •bands now in popular· favor for the annual dance. A bal- lot has been prepared containing the names of the bands that seem to be the most lil{ely choices for the affai-r in May, it was announced today by Keith McCandless, '42, chairman of the Prom. McCandless· said that the committee has drawn up the ballot in order that the stu- dent body may have the opportun- ity to voice its preference for the band it wants for Prom. It was indicated that the ballot, upon which will be printed the names of ten bands, win be passed out in dai·ly assembly tomorrow and that the student body will be asked to mark on it their first four choices. Try to Book Winner McCandless said that the Prom Committee wHI \do all in its power to book the winning band or at least one which finishes among the top three.\ He pointed out that men who do not expect to attend the Junior PTom will be asked not to cast a ballot, but that all who are intending to attend the affair, and have therefore a concern as to the selection of the band, are urged to cast their vote. McCandless indi- cated. that the Prom Committee hopes, in this manner, to gain a more accurate measure of student opinion than through any other medium. Bands that will appear on the ballot are as follows: Jimmy Dor- sey; Bobby Byrne; Tommy Dorsey; Woody Herman; Glenn Miller; Gene Krupa; Will Bradley; Count Basie; Artie Shaw and Ray Noble. Conunittee Members The fraternity members of the Prom Committee include: Robert Hallenbeck, Delta Chi; Frederick P. Schmelzer, Kappa Sigma; Moey Friedman, Kappa Nu; Michael Stanco, Alpha Phi Delta; Louis Da- cundo, North College; William Stone, South College; Robert Miller, Oldgym Hall; Bernard Haake, An- drew Kay, Abraham Dorsman and Benjamin Jakobowski, Neutrals; Angus Morrison, Kappa Alpha; Jacob Van Aernam, Sigma Phi; Robert Nothacker, Delta Phi; Ed- ward Enstice, Psi Upsilon; Kenneth Lasher, Delta Upsilon; Keith Me-. Candless, Chi Psi; Paul Dwyer, Theta Delta Chi; Eric T. King, Alpha Delta Phi; John Bl.!lldY Shaw, Beta Theta Pi; William Gar- cia, Phi -Delta Theta; Robert Davis, Phi Gamma Delta; Lee Sherman, Phi Sigma Delta; Thomas L. Par- sons, Phi Sigma Kappa; and John Knapp, Sigma Chi. McCandless, Morrison, Van Aer- n(m, Enstice, Davis, Sherman and Kay are acting as the executive committee of the group. ----0---- Hipp and Polson Praise Forums at Town Meeting Every citizen can take a part in strengthening national morale ·and promoting defense by participating in forums and learning to discuss controversial matters calmly in en- deavoring to solve American inter- nal problems, an esti-mated quarter of a million persons listening over station WGY and a smaller audi- ence gathered in the Old Chapel heard speakers on the Empire State Town Meeting suggest yester- day. Dr. Frederick L. Hipp, state .forum counselor for the New York State Council of School Superin- tendents, and Dr. Robert A. Polson, community organizing specialist at Cornell Uni versily, suggested dis- cussion \ways and means\ for ur- ban apd rural groups, respectively. Mr. Polson emphasized the neces- sity of bringing the national de- fense and morale \closer to home\ with the rural population of New York State, for \many rural people feel somewhat remote from the de- fense program.\ • • trnsts ASCAP-BMI Speakers On Campus UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y .. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1941 PRICE FIVE CENTS Speaks for ASCAP Comparison Shows 'Campus Affairs' At St. Andrews and Union Differ Famous Conductor CoUe.ge Network Being Cons ide red ·~Y Broadcasters By JOHN ·P. LEWIS <~------- ---- PROF. 8. STEPHENSON SMITH Smith D,iscusses Broadcast Fight ASCAP Represented In Debate on Music; BMI Repiys Tomorrow The speec:1 of Professor S. Steph- enson Smith, educational counselor for ASCAP, in daily assembly this morning, was the beginning of a two-day series of discussions and lectures on the Union campus for the purpose of clearing up current contro.versy between ASCAP and BMI regarding music broadcast by radio stations throughout the na- tion. Other features in the pro- gram include a lecture in Old Chapel tonight ·by Professor Smit'h at 8:00 and an address in daily as- sembly tomorrow by George Skin- ner who will present the BMI side of the controversy. \American music has been sub- jected to a blackout for one month by the radio broadcasters,\ Profes- sor Smith stated in assembly this morning. A while back I noted the state- ment in the press suggesting that one of our own universities-per- haps it was Harvard or Colurnbia- rn.pidly was achieving a more r.ilitarized state than any Oxford v•ould reach in the course of the war. Naturai'Iy my interest in \campus affa-irs\ is concentrated upon two institutions, one of which cans its campus \quadrangles.\ It has been somewhat enlightening on the matter of \national character,\ if nothing else, to compare the re- CPnt crescendo in war-interest at 'Cnion with the reports I have re- ceived from St. Andrews during the present session. On this campus the Student Com- mittee for Democracy finally has really begun to swing into action, having already sponsored a Capitol District Conference on Collegiate Defense. Now it is reported by the committee that negotiations are be- ing completed for visits of repre- sentatives of various conflicting \How best defend America\ groups such as \Union-Now\ here in the near future. <We are refusing to neglect our Peace Aims in the cur- Dr. Morton C. Stewart To Undergo Operation Professor Morton C. Stew.art, Associate Professor of German, will J::ie forced to undergo an operation necessitating his ab- sence .from his classes for a six week period, Dr. George Dan- ton, chairman of the field of Modern Languages, said yester- day. Professor Stewart's classes will be taken by other mem- bers of the department. Profes- sor George D. Kellogg will take Dr. Stewart's Scientific German class, and ,Dr. Danton and Dr. Charles H. Stubing will teach the remaining classes. Russell Sage S CD Plans Joint Forum Invites Union Chapter To Be Co-Leaders at Democracy Discussion The present fight, he said. is between the networl{S and the com- posers. The crux of the matter is that the networks do not wish to .pay the composers for the rig.ht of using their music on the air. Only the individual stations .pay for per- forming rights, Professor .Smith stated. In addition, the speaker con- tinued, the networks control the The first step in the program Victor and Columbia recording agreed upon by the Student Com- companies and booking agencies.\ mittee for Democracy, whose repre- Discusses Hit Parade sentatives from Skidmore, Russell Sage, R. P. I. and Union, met on In discussing Hit Parade music, the Union campus January 19, has Professor Smith declared that most been taken by Russell Sage College. of the tunes belong to ASCAP and In a letter sent by Eliza-beth Ko.hn- that they get only $211 out of the stamm., '42, to the Union chapter of $15,000 spent for each broadcast. the S. c. D , the Russell Sage cha•p- It has been indicated that this is ter invited sixteen Union men to the first time that authorized repre- sentatives of both AS·CAP and BMI participate as co-leaders in a forum on \Our Unfolding Democracy,\ to will be telling their story to the b·e conducted on the campus of same audience. The program came Russell Sage College in Troy on about a year ago when President February 13 . Dixon Ryan Fox arranged for Pro- fessor Smith to visit the campus, The program for the day will speak before classes in English consist of a. tea at 4:30 in the Ger- literature, meet with students in- man Lounge of .the French House, terested in writing and dramatics, which will be followed by a discus- and confer with other members of sion of plans for the forum_ Dinner the student body interested in ere- will be served at 6:30 and the ative or interpretive arts. Union men will be the guests of When the current ASCAP-BMI Russell Sage girls. The forums will controversy over broadcast music last from 7:30 to 8:30. developed lasf: month, Dr. Fox is- Names To Be Announced sued an invitation to BMI to send a representative to complement The Union college members of Professor Smith for the purpose of the Student Committee for Democ- speaking on whether or not each racy are arranging for the sixteen organization was working in the men whose names will be an- public interest as well as on the be- nounced in the near future. half of composers, authors, and At the conference and broadcast publishers. which were held by the Committee BMI accepted the invitation and on the Union campus, it was agreed Mr. Skinner was assigned to the that each college would assume campus by the organization. leadership in a different field. It rent excitement over war effort-at least theoretically, a very sound viewpoint.> Meanwhile informed rumors close to reliable sources have it that the administration is not turning a totally deaf ear to student demands for some sort of campus military training. Thhl, at the same time that the library is staying open until 10:30 for defensP. classes. In contrast with ail this tran- sition toward \Union going hell- bent,\ about the only thing that's happened this fall to add to the militaristic character of the Uni- v~rsity of St. Andrews is a bomb- ing. We expected a visitation all last spring. Yesterday I received a l(•lter dated December 11th from an ex-hitch-hiking companion, this year's Senior Student of the main men's residence at St. Andrews, re- n.arking, \You must have heard that three whole bombs were dropped here some weeks-and a few windows blown in around St. Mary's Quad; the pear tree hopped about ten yards. Part of the Bute (medical building) blown in but not much. Wish they had hit (Continued on Page 4) Sophomore Dance Set For ~arch 15 Tentative Plans Call For an Informal, Open Affair in Alumni Gym March 15 has been tentatively set as the date for the second Sopho- more Dance, it has been announced by Kenneth Sharpe, '43, who also released the names of the men who will work on the committees for the affair. The dance will be informal, and will be open to t-he entire school. Committee members have been chosen from ail fraternity, dormi- tory, and neutral groups, Sharpe indicated. The members are as fol- lows: Orchestra, Frank England, chairman; Invitatio!l.s, Lyall Dean, chairman; Decorations, James Purdy, chairman, and Norman Fox and Harold Messenger; Tickets, Emile Brunet, chairman, and Ken- neth Lynge and Robert Ground- water; Publicity, Robert Nemeroff, chairman. Those men who will make up the general ticket committee are: Roger Allen, Paul Santee, Robert Shepherd, Leon Levine, Frank Sala- mone, Henry Wysocki, Charles Wil- son, George Weed, Frank Jones, Thomas O'Connor, William Shar- key, and John Mann. Members of the other committees will also act in the capacity of ticket agents. Sharpe said that it was expected that bids for the affair would come to about one dollar. He said that the affair would take place in the Alumni Gymnasium, and, according to the tradition established in 1939 when the class of 1942 sponsored the first All-Freshman Dance, there will be decorations conceived and executed by members of the class. Tentative plans call for a dance that will last from 9 p. m. to 1 a. m. ;:',ands within the price range of an informal and inexpensive affair are being contacted now and it is ex- pected that one will be signed in the near future. Radio Club, Workshop Discuss Possibilities For Setting Up System The possibilities of a campus ccm- fined broadcasting system fot· Union were considered at a meeting of campus radio organization lead- ers Friday afternoon. Donald El- dred, '42, president of the Radio Club, Myron Mills, '42, ·president of the Radio Workshop, and John L. Warner, '41, met with David W. Borst, Brown, '40, former produc- . tion manager of the Brown Univer- sity campus network, and technical manager of the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System. SIR THOMAS BEECHAM English Musician To lecture Here Chinese Aid Group To Sponsor Talk Friday By Sir Thomas Beecham Col. Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., has thanked the Schenectady committee of the American Bureau for Med- ical Aid to China \for the splendid support they are giving to our hu- manitarian work,\ in sponsoring Sir Thomas Beecham, director of the London Symphony Orchestra, and world-known composer and operatic impressario, who will give a public lecture Friday night in Memorial Chapel. The proceeds of this lecture will be turned over to give immediate relief to the mil- lions of war-stricken ·Chinese ch!I- dren and other civilians. Col. Roosevelt's letter was writ- ten to Mrs. George H. Danton, a member of the executive cC'mmittee arranging the lecture by the British composer who was knighted for his outstanding contribution to music and who later also became a bar- onet. Tour Began in Australia Sir 'fhoil'as comes to Schenectady following an extended tour that be- gan in Australia two years ago and includes his acting as guest con- ductor of the New York Philhar- monic Orchestra, the Boston Sy.m- phony, the Philadelphia Symphony and the St. Louis Symphony or- chestras. For three decades .he has been a leading figure in English and con- tinental musical circles. He was noted not only as a director of symphony orchestras, but also as organizer and director of the cele- brated Delius and Sibelius festivals, conductor of the Imperial Opera Company, and composer of several symphonies. Sir Thomas was invested, some years ago, with the insignia of a Commander of the Legion of Honor by the President of the French Republic. In 1929 he was honored by the British Broadcasting Com- pany with the honorary title of \Conductor-in-Chief\ and was for many years director of the Lon- don Symphony Orchestra. A campus confined .broadcasting system would mean that Union stu- dents would be able to hear pro- grams originating from a studio on the campus on regular long-wave radio sets. The Radio Club already owns some of the equipment neces- sary for such a system, but its establishptent would entail addi- tiona:l apparatus. The Radio Work- shop has offered to supply program material and to handle production on such a campus network. To Discuss Problems Involved The Radio Club is at present con- sidering the technical difficulties involved in setting up such a sys- tem. Plans were made at Friday's meeting to have Borst address a meeting of the Radio Club on cam- pus \networks\ in general and ·take part in a discussion of Union's problems. Eldred said that the Radio Club has made .plans to set up an ex- perimental line between the Elec- trical Engineering building and one of the other cam·pus buildings to discover details of the problems that will be involved. He said the Radio Club is particularly anxious to hear opinions from members of the student body on the amount of interest such a network might de- velop if established. Eldred and Borst plan to draw up a tentative budget of expenses for such a net- work, in order to see to what ex- tent financial difficulties might im- pair progress on the plan. The Intercollegiate Broadcasting System has set up a national ad- vertising agency for its members in New York, according to a letter received last week by the Radio Workshop. Membership for the new network in the IBS could thus assure a certain income for the net- work, Mills and Borst pointed out, provided that the network was set up in such a way that it could ac- cept national advertising. Possible Audio-Frequency System The idea of a campus network for Union college arose from two separate sources. The Radio Club first discussed the proposal last spring, when Gordon Jacobs, '43, drew up plans for an Audio-Fre- quency system, w.hich was later abandoned because it was consider- ed too expensive. Since then the Club has considered the possibilities of setting up a radio frequency sys- tem, which, while less expensive, would entail considerable experi- mentation before it could be made certain that the system would not break existing laws. Plans for the third annual Fresh- man Dance, to be held March 1 were made early last week when Richard Mackenzie and John Bar- ton wero appointed co-chairmen for the event. · ---0--- Albany Medical School Dean Will Speak Here The Radio Workshop first be· came interested in the system last month, after it had :been accepted into the Intercollegiate Broadcast- ing System. The IBS is a federation of some 15 college radio organiza- tions, many of which run campus confined systems, Although the ---·0--- Skidmore Student Head To Speak February I I Dean R. S. Cunningham of the Radio Workshop was accepted into Albany Medical School, will meet membership under that section of freshmen and junior premedical the IBS constitution which provides students on February 12, it was an- membership to those radio groups nounced today. In his annual trip having \short-wave broadcasting Professor Smith is the author of was agreed that Skidmore should several books, including \The Craft handle war relief work; R. P. I. of the Critic\ \The Command of should handle work with South Words\ and \Modern Social and America; Union should handle work Political Corned¥.\ He is a former. on the proposed \third service Rhodes scholar, and an authmity school\ and publicity; while Rus- on developments in the lighter the- sell Sage agreed to handle work of atre which has given such musical the SCD connected with forums comedy satires as \Of Thee I Sing\ and national defense skills. Miss Bettina Loheed, president to the college for this purpose, equipment available\ a Union or- of the student body of Skidmore Dean Cunningham will address the ganization which proposed to .build College, wm speak in daily assem- two undergraduate groups at 7:30 a campus confined system would be biy on Tuesday, February 11, it p.m. in the Old Chapel. He will eligible for affiliate membership. was announced today. Miss Loheed di~cuss various phases of medical As an affiliate member the organ- spoke on the Empire State Town and premedical education with the ization would receive assistance Meeting of the Air over WGY on group, and will be available for in- from the IBS in the construction of January 19 when representatives of dividual consultation and additional its system in the form of instruc- the Student Committees for De- information. tions and advice from colleges mocracy in Skidmore, Russell Sage, It is expected that the Albany which already have a system. 1m- Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Medical School dean will return to. mediately after the system was in and Union discussed \What the the campus later in the year to operation, the IBS would probably American College Student Can Do speak to the sophomore and seniar be able to offer it national adver- Professor Smith's lectm e will be- A schedule of broadcasts to South gin promptly at 8:00 tonight and is America is being planned' by the to be without charge to the public. committee, as well as cooperation He will speak on \Broadway with several student organizations Tackles Politics.\ at Harvard, Swarthmore, and Bard. for Democracy.\ premedical students of the college. tlsing contracts.

I'agoe Two Olnnrnr Fon;nE!l 1877 \.·/ C:ausa Ptrsa Parol I' .·! ssai'' Member of the Associated Collegiate lJress and dititl·ib-utOi:--or-ilie- Go•· ltgiate Dtgt~:::;t. 'rhe offic-ial tJewspaper of the student~ of Uuiun College. l'u!Jli,;lit;il'l:'ueo· Ua~· and Friduy::3 thl'OUf!hout t-he coH~ge y(:ar. Etlitorlnl Rooms, SllHwan Hall. Cniull...:..:;C~'8'l'le-=gc-._.-.c\'a-::t-::n::cpu::-:-:;_ TelPpho~. St'henectady, 4-0133 Publie!ttiun·orrlce,- Tile--Gazette -Pi·e·ss,--33~ State- st-::- seE;;,I;,etii,iY: ~- Y .. Tde!Jhutle 4-4111 Eutcr~d at the t:)chent:clady Pu~t Uf(iee as ~~~.:·tass .:\fm\C-:\Tat~~~ ~ubsenpbon lll'll'e l 1 ~L\'e eents a cupy; $:i.UU a. Jt•ar; dclt\'t:ltd Uli.}\\littt\ iu the C'n1tt:J. i::it..J.tt.::::.. Senior Board James E. Twining, Jr ............................... Editor-!n-Chief Clu P:':li Lvde;L--1·G~:.!7 Lasluu· Schwartz ...•...•.............•......•... Business ~1anager Kapp~t Xu Jluu~e-4~7:131 Robert s. Schulberg .....................••...•... Associate Editor Phi Sigma Dt:ltu Houtit:-6~0763 Paul W. Beclter ....•...•..............•...•....... Associate Editor 26 ~. ltohillHllll St.-t.i-7~77 John D. Phillips ..................................... Sports Editor l'::;i Upsilon lloU::)t:-·1-~710 John P. Lewis ..................................... Editor-at-Large .\l'iddle St:diun, :-\ui1:h C.Jllt>gt: l.i~t!~t·li ,J. Donald Haigh .............................. Circulation Manager p·hi Udta Thda Hou~c- 1-1:.! 11 RI!PREBE.NTBD FOR NATIONAl. ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishus Representative 42.0 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK, N. Y, CHICAGO • SOSTON • LOS A~ GELliS • SAH FRAliClSCC Junior Board Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman Samuel Portnoy Sophomore Bourd Robert Dake, Robert Bishop, Granger Tripp, Thomas O'Connor, Richard Wa:tanabe, Arthur Cohen, Everett McCarty, Robert Hayner, Harvey Fishbone. Robert Allan, Photographic Editor Stanley Greenstein Justin Perlstein Business Staff Harold Messenger Joseph Jaycox David Rosenblum Issue Editor .................................. Armand Feig('nbaum Assistants Blechman Hayner Fishbone Tripp Tuesday, February 4, 1941 IN CAMPUS HAN OS AH too frequently of late we have heard student complaints that the1·e was not enough social life at L'nion. Pressed to ex- plain they have y.oiced the opinion that what the college year lacked was several low cost dances. To them the Interfra- ternity Ball was the early high point and the Junior Prom tlw late high point of the ~eason hut between the-se two peak~ social life at l'niun fell almost flat. They have pointed to week end after week end when stu- dents have streamed away to other haunts leaving what little social cohesion the1·e remained to take place in l'nion's favor- ite llrinking plan.'s. This, they have said, was bad and we have agreed with them. It is refreshing to note that the Sophomore class has made thei1· dance an all-college affair. All indications point to a continuance of the low pl'ice custom established by former Sophomore classes at thei1· dances. Here then, is a chance for those who cry for more social affairs to prove that the want is \actual\ 1·ather than just wishful thinking- by chronic complainers. The test is the attendance. Should college support of the Sophomore affair indicate that a l\enl demand existed for low cost dances, there are sev- entl possibilities that might easil~· be realized. The Glee Club plans a concert with Skidmore and that might easi!~· be fol- lowed, as it was t\'Vo years ago, \Vith an inexpensive formal dance. The Concordiensis reported that that dance was \well attended and a fin~mical success.\ Final action on a dance following this year's Skidmore-Union concert depends on the setting- of an a~ceptable date for the concert b~· the Glee Club and the approval of a dance by the Student Council. A series ot ··vic\ dances after the Saturday evening basket- ball g-ames might solve both this and the poor attendance problem. Co-operation of both the radio clul.J and the stu- dents themselves would be necessary. The club would be re- quired to fumish a public address system, and students to lend records. A member of the Mountebanks has suggested that a dance follow the Saturday night performances of the dramatic group. Hale House, he said, would be the ideal place because it offered a large floor to dance on in the din- ing mom and a hu·ge lounge. The problem is not so much one of ideas but rather one of deterrnining how much student support there would be. The solution is in campus hands. S. B. OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES Tit for Tat-an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth-has really found. opportunity for expression on the wintry Colgate campus. When the United States government informed Doctor Trainer, outing club faculty advisor, that it expected five cents from each daily admis- sion charg(' at thP new ski tow. thf' profPssor demanded the a·bolish- ment of the four cent road tax on each gallon of gasoline used ih thP tow engine. Uncle Sam didn't refuse! THE CONCORD'IENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1941 Dr. ·wold Gives Rojansky, Thatcher Glee Club Gives Delta Phi's Hold Symbols ol His Positions at Union Ten Ey. c.k Concert Late ~Ilell Week' S~henectad1ans, used to strange Song Contest, Dance Included in Program; Student Tickets $ 1.50 Harlring back to the middle ages · for h:tspiration, the Glee Club is to include a song contest in the pro- gram which it wUI sing before the : Albany Alumni Association at the H0tel Ten Eyck this Saturday eve- ning, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, direc-. tor o.f the group said today. Tickets for tlle concert and dance have gone on sale at the coJ.lege ·book- stGre at a special student rate of $150 per couple. Several quartets of the Glee Club wiH compete against each other in the contest which wiU take the place of the usual skit. The win- ning quartet will be selected 'bY the audience who will ind·icate their choice by giving their favorite grou.p the most applause. Neither Dr. Tidmarsh nor any mem·ber of the Glee Club not participating in the contest will offer ·advice or any form of help. To Sing French Song requests by Union College freshmen out on initiation errands, we!'e mildly helpful to the Delta Phi ini- tiates who s0ught thei·r help last week. The neophytes were sent out Thursday and Friday nights to lo- cate non-existent or rare things as part of their \Hell Week,\ deferred because of the Decem•ber quaran- tine of the house. One freshrna,n characterized ·by Mayor M·Hls Ten Eyck as a \six foot, beaming, ordinarily kind y0ung man\ woke said d·ignitary to ask for his signature. His Honor readily gave his autograph to the freshman who described him in turn as \a good guy.\ The .same h•cshman later wandered into the Gazette office in search of a .pic- ture of Mrs. Roosevelt with her mouth shut. There were a number of pictures of the .first lady in the liles but al'l with her mouth open. F1•om lt>ft to right, Dr. Thatcher, Dr. Rojansky, and Dr. Wold A completely new program will be presented the alumni including one song sung in French. Dr. Tid- marsh revealed the work the Glee Club goes through to prepare for a program when he said that they rehearsed for an hour and a half every week with him for the in- terpretation of the music and for two .half hour periods with the stu- dent leaders later in the week. The student leaders instruct their men in note reading and in memorizing the music and the words. Later the freshman was seen entering a downtown restaurant at 3 a. m. in search 0f a product no Schenectady lunch room handled- goat's milk. After the freshman had left, the counterman said that he was struck with awe at a re- quest fo-r a beverage that no one bad asked for in \at least ten years.\ Professor Peter I. Wold, head of the Depat·tment of Physics, re- turned to Washington Sunday eve- ning after spending .the weekend on the campus before taking up his newest cuty. The new assignment, in connection with Dr. Wold's posi- tion in the N-ational Defense Pro- gram with the Naval Ordnance Bu- reau, will take him on Friday to Honolulu, Hawaii, along with four associates. While at Hawaii, Dr. Wold will do special scientific work in con- nection with the government's de- fense work in this important Pa- cific zone. Radio Workshop Try-outs Tonight First FM Dramatized Program To Be Cast In WGY Studios at 7 Casting by the Radio Workshop under the direction of John Shee- han, '25, program director of Gen- eral Electric Frequency Modulation and Short Wave Broadcasting, of the dramatic skit \The Declatation of Independence\ will take ·place tonight at 7 p. m. at the WG.Y studios. The play is scheduled for pr esen- tation ovPr W2XOY. the General Electric frequency modulation sta- tion. as soon thereafter as is pos- sible. It will be the first \live\ dra- matic production to be broadcast on the Schenectady frequency mod- ulation station though dramatic presentations \piped in\ from WGY and from the i-IBC Red Netwot k have ah·eady been carried by the station. The play is to be broadcast over WGEA and WGEO, the Gen- eral Electric short wave stations, in the near· future according to pres- ent plans. The executive committee of the organization has invited all mem- bPrs of the Radio Workshop and other students interested in radio dramatics to try out for parts in the play. Copies of the play are availa.ble at the reserve desk of the library. Th~ committee requested that candidates for the part have the play read by tonight and have a definite part in mind when t-hey arrive for the 7 p. m. tryout. ----o--- Study-Hour Food Returns to Union \Study-hour snaclts\ will again rPturn to the Union scene starting tomorrow night when a new sand- wich route will be started. Emmett Evans, '43, will superintend opera- tions of the new organization, which will replace the former gi oup which was under the direc- tion of the Student Service Bureau. The old !'oute was discontinued some two months ago. Evans, who is making. arrange- ments for his new enterprise, through the Student Employment r.ureau, plans to set up his or- ganization in such a manner that it can be continued next year. He p-lans to sell sandwiches, milk, chocolate milk and coffee on the route from 9:30 p.m. until 11 p.m. from Monday through FI iday. The Student Service Bureau's food route was discontinued late in December due to a number of difficulties, William Wardwell, '41, co-manager of the Bm·eau, said. ( hief among these difficulties was the fact that students could not b,, found who were willing to take During his brief stay on the earn- pus, Dr. Wold handed over his port- folio as head of the Physics depart- ment to Professor Vladimir Rojan- sky, w.ho has been appointed acting head until Dr. Wold's return. He also tallred with Professor Everett W. Thatcher, who 'has assumed Wold's former position of Coordi- na:tor of the Civil Aeronautics Ad- ministration. Dr. Zaka I. Slawsky reported satisfactory progress with courses which he has taken over in the departmental course shake-up which Dr. Wold's departure made necessary late last November. Hymn Phone Singers Kellogg The proceeds of the Albany con- cert will be used by the Alumni Association to support their schol- arshi-p for an Albanian at Union. They have engaged Francis Murphy and his orchestra to play for the dancing which will follow the con- cert. The affair will begin with the concert at 8:30 p. m. Song Contest Origin Song contests go pac·k to the mid- dle ages when traveling troubadors Dr. George Dwight Kellogg, often furnished musical entertain- Chairman of the Field of Ancient ment by singing against one an- Classics, and Professor of Latin, other for small money prizes, food missed a hymn sing meeting of the or lodgings, Dr. Tidmarsh said Christian Association the other In Wagner's comic opera \Die night. Professor Kellogg is not in Meistersinger\ the hero wins his we habit of cutting Christian As- lacy fair in a song contest in which sociation hymn sings, so the sing- he is pitted against some of the ers, assembled at the home of Pro- best singers in Germany. \Walter's fcssor and Mrs. Walter Consuelo Prize Song\ the winning song, is Langsam for the regular Sunday an old concert favorite, and may Pvening event, put their ima?;ina- be used by one of the Glee club tive heads togethE-r and e-volved a I quartets Saturday night. method through which they might I _____ 0 ___ _ rt mind the professor that his ab-1 s••nce was not being overlooked. Practice Interviews Dialing 4-2753, one of the as- II C Th\ W k Sl'mblage answere~ ?~'· Kellog~'s ommence IS ee r·t>sponse ~o ~he ;,mg~ng. bell wrth A series of 11 placement discus- an authorttattve, Thrs rs Western sions and interviews scheduled L\ni?.n. We ?ave a message for this month for seniors was begun you. Immedta:t~ly thereafte,;,. the yesterday. The students in the va- g;:oup-.. harmon~zed on , Stlent r ious fields will meet leading em- !';t_ght, the Latm pr~fessor s fav- players and representatives during mrte hymn. Alas. thrs strategem, the next few months as the final like ~thers of \the}es.a laid plans ''polish\ for job-seeking while many of mrce and men, dtd not have will be offered jobs by the inter- any immediate noticeable effect. viewers. Dr. Kellogg said nothing and The Placement Bureau, which hung up. sponsors the .discussions, has also The Christian Association mem- sent out \profiles\ of the accom- bers must have been disconcerted plishments of seniors deslling work nc, end. Probably they went back next year to leading employers of tu their hymn singing with an air the nation. These \profiles\ give cf frustration. But all was not lost. ql!alifications, scholastic standing, ,:,.bout a half hour later, the dra- personality indicators, and other matic peal of a telephone bell cut personnel information to prospec- into the melodious harmonies. It trve employers. was Dr. Kellogg, ex·plaining that he Fred·el·ic A. Wya.tt. '32, director had deduced the origin of the of the Placement Bureau, today earlier call, and the motive behind said that less than 10 of the Union the singing and that he wanted to Alumni registered with the bureau thank the group for their singing. are now unemployed. O'Rourke Will Address Phi Beta Kappa Dinner Yesterday, undergraduates were DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM We Serve Beter Food for Better Health 118-120 JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall Champagne Glass Sought Another fr•eshman raided the dorms in search of his required ob- jects and to his surprise was able to pick up two of them-a .bathing cap and a red lantern. His other two requests went unsatisfied be- ca,use no dorm resident was able to supply a complete recipe for dan- delion wine, though several had ideas that it was made in a style ha,rking back to prohibition liquor, nor could a champagne glass ·be located. Then the neophyte went to several bars only to find the bar- keepers ignorant in the matter of making dandelion wine and reluc- tant to let a champagne glass go for less than $1.50. A third Delta Phi initiate sought red hairs at the Kappa Nu house and received cuttings from the tail of Pat, their Irish Setter. Those finally initiated into Delta Phi were: 1944, Robert A. Nann, Judson Zimmer, Ro-bert Caswell, Jr., Richard Plunkett, Cameron Jameson, Richard Adams, Cla·ire Smith, Robert Barnes; 1943, Rich- ard Z. Bouton; 1942, Willard Tay- lor, Roy Webster and Shiu K. Yuer,. interviewed by J. M. Gibson of the International Business Machines Company and Roy V. Shorey of the Lever Bros. Company <chemistry ~tudentsl. Other men who will conduct in- t<>rviews and discussions on the campus this month are: P. W. Boynton, and W. E. Vogler of So- c,my-Vacuum Co.; Harry J. Lin- ton on \Public School Education\; G. M. Gilt and George V. Ander- son, Consolidated Edison Co. of New York; A. F. Male, F. W. Wool- worth Co.; Capt. Sidney J. La,ne and Capt. Townsend, U. S. Army; C. L. Heyniger, headmaster of Dar- row School on \Private School Teaching\; Royce 0. Schermer- horn, \Insurance\; Professor G. W. Woodworth and Assistant Dean Henry L. Duncombe, Jr., school of business administration, Dartmouth College; Professor A. J. Casner, Harvard Law School. Interested in Schenectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jt<Weler I 66 JAY STREET Watch and Je<We/ry Repairing a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS Professor Vernon O'Rourke will be the principal speaker at the an- nual dinner of the Upper Hudson Association of Phi Beta Kappa, oldest chapter of the national hon- orary society in. t·he state, at the University Club in Albany at 7 p.m. Saturday. Dr. O'Rourke will speak on \Industl'ial and Labor Relations\ with special emphasis on those of New York State. LOUIS WASSERMAN Professor O'Rourke is a member of New York State's Ives Commit- tee, which is investigating indus- trial and labor problems through- out the state on behalf of the leg- isla:ture. actual charge of the carrying on of the route itself. This situation made it impossible to continue the service regularly, thus making the route impractical. Evans, through the Employment F<ureau, has indicated that he will te glad to receive any suggestions from the students which may help to make the agency an effective one. Practically every college hi the country conduct similar agencies, he said, and he hopes to make this one at Union a permanent one. QUALITY MEAT MARKET 345 Broadway Phones 4-3364, 4-3365 It's BowlinCJ Time at REUTER'S ACADEMY \Union's Bowling Center\ 148 Clinton St. Schenectady, N.Y. = Bc: Gt At Wl'O! Unh this favc Poir erne ley !ian garr: sho1 pla~ fore of t the B1 botl assi last cag' ben foil~ Ball Tat deft Sali m-in T the one rerr: Du1 sive qui• goa the the: tea: Bal puc let mic sen effc by son l:ta: A fro as Set E he< pla Joe lOti< we hill bm neE cid fivt j ere th< inE ma wi m·e It prt Co sp< thE 1 ha Ca un IDE H< Hl 1\:E B! Tl w Bt El S< gl - - - - - - - - - - - !ii

ini- la:st out lo- as by 11 six to the in me the .pic- her the n. t at no re- one ten the ob- be- e to jan- had uor, be bar- of go tail a ire the the in- the w. So- of ane W. l of ne·r, THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1941 Page Th~·ee Hockey Team Noses Out Army As Courtmen Lose Fifth INTRAMURAlS Baker Sco·res For Puck:men, Hoimes 1 Swimmers Boast Poor Record Since! Gets 55 Saves; Stevens 35,. Union 23 Start In 1921; Last Year Tops Jones,s~:~~:tb~~i. ~~~r~:lyneaux,. sAsR~::.~~~ ~;~::~~lNG~ Quintet's Attack FaHers in Second Half ~!he ~r:t record of ar;. or~anized • ---- ---- -- --- -~··, ..... ~~~~aDeb\~it:h~o; 73 k~~~·~l~m~~-~: ~elta Ch} . . . , • , ~~ Immin~ team 1 at Unwn College 1 A{ter the R.P.I. meet 111 35 the! Kappa Sigma, 50; HutPhms, Dt•lta Kappa N u As New Jersey Tea-m Scores Easy V1ctory 1 appeats m th~ fi.es of the ~thleti~ I team w\nt on a twenty-five meet' Up,.ilon, 4ti; Reilly, Beta T. he.ta Pi, Phi Gamma Delta ~----------- ______ Department m 1921. ~reVJOU'. to lo~ing stl'eak. Joe Wheatley ar-146; Glenn, Phi Sigma Kappa, 1.1. Neutrals ................. . Art Lawrence's hockey team . that, any refer·ence, to etth~r :-wtm-, rived on the campus for the 1937-38 1 tb· 11 R ·uit. 'Alpha Phi Delta ......... . wrote the most bt·iHiant chapter in Scormg mers, natators, t~ml{men, ducl{s, or season and· hi's gan~ finPllv 'b1·oke 1 Bas.«' ~ esU sl 19 Phi Delta Th~h U:nion College's sports history for First period: 1, At·my, Elsbeny any o:ller sport_ .. raers' phta~l'S the strea!{ againo;t M.I.T. on Jan-' Jan,uary 31 -- elt~. !JSI on ... Chi Psi . . . . ' this year when it upset a heavily (Ray), 14:00'; 2, Union, Salisbury are hat·d to find, pract.ica!Jy .a nell uary 21, 1939, by a 50 to 25 score. 1 ~~~ ~~g~~· K~ppa 1 ' 'D A{fh~ 0 ?e~~ South College .. favo-red Army .team in the West (accidental), 19:15. Second period: for all good purp.:>~~s. Hl1P<'Sclhlc.: Interest in swimming revived un- ~ h~ Phi D:lta ~~mc~ 1 i ;,t 13 ' Sigma Chi ....... . Point arena this past Satur<tay aft- None. Third period: 3, Union, And t~w~ after a look at the I' PC- der Coach Wheatley, deEpite· his : p Februar . 1 _. Phi St ma D~lta 9 Kappa Alpha ..... . ernoon. Sparked by Captain Dud- Baker (unassisted>. ords, It Is hard to see JU~l what fir<t year record of but one vietory I K 8 .~ 27 p ~ U . 1 <> 7 · Alpha Del.ta Phi ley Holmes, who repeated his bril- * * kept the team gain;.{ as Ion£( a\' it· as against seven los:'es. Led by I appa . Igm~ .: SI p~I un j: ·· !''ati'onal L~a\'tl~ liant performance of the Williams has To sa'-· that tl'c sport ha< had p T dB •tt' h' t I Bet.a Theta PI 35, Delta Cht 49, Pu ,, ' ,., ' LeEs fortunate than Art Law- · · \ ' · · \ assee, eare an n m, · IS cam. Delta Theta 22 game a11d .;;tepped fif.ty-five cadet Its ups and downs, I>' wrong, •to broke the 100 yard free style, 220 · Kanpa Sigma ..... · · · · shots, the eight man Union squad renee's hockey team was the var- say that it has had its downs, is yard free o;tyle, 200 yard breaot- 1 BaskPtball Scht\dUIP Beta T'hela Pi ....... · · played a gruelling defensive game, sity basketball team which suf- more pertinent. s.trolre. and the 440 yard free o'tyle Febr~ar~· 4 -7:30, North College Sigma Ph·i · · · · · · · · · ~orcing the Cadets to take most fered its fifth !O.!:S' of the current Starting in 1921 the team l\ak a records several times. vs. Pht Stgma Kappa; 8:30, De!Vr Delta Upsilon ..... ·. · · · season, and its fourth in a row, at d k' f s · U' 'I s· Ph' 9 30 AI h ' of their shots from the vicinity of seve1e uc mg rom ytacuse In Interest in swimming grew even ·P~I on v~. Igma 1; : . , P a P>'i Up:dlon ............. . the blue line. the hands of a taller and strongei· the fil'st intercollegiate nwet in higher in the '38-'38 season as the F-ht Delta vs. Alpha Delta Phi: Phi Sigma Kappa ..... . Bob Baker was respoRsi-ble for Stevens Institute quintet by a 35 to which the co.Jlege entered by u tram wont two meets while losin\ !, F_ebt.uary 5 --7:30, Delta. Phi vs. Delta Phi · ·. 23 score, at the latter'o court in \ Ph S D It 8 30 S Ch ' both of the goalE, t:1e first with an score of 38 to 6. However, latet 111 five. Six Block \U\ award~ were · t rg.ma e a; : · rgma ~ 'Phi Sigma Delta ......... . w L 6 0 5 0 5 0 .j 0 2 3 2 4 2 4 2 4 1 4 1 i'i 1 6 6 0 5 1 4 1 4 2 3 ., 2 2 1 4 1 1 0 5 0 5 assi-Et by an Army player, and the Hoboken, N. J., on Saturday night. the ~:a, on, in an \all_ fm· g-lory given out to Brittin, Passe, Har-; vs .. Phi Delta Theta; 9:.30. Pel North College : .. · · · · · · · · · last on a solo dash to the Cadet's The Dutchmen held the 'Tutemen meet, as the files term It, t!-te team wood Davis Teare and DeWitt fur. Upsilon vs. Theta Delta Chi. Th£>ta Delta Ch1 ..... · · · · · cage. Late in the first period, Els- practically on even terms through- took the most places· from !veal brilli~nt p~rformances as more: ~ebruary 6--1:15. :!.Jelta .Chi. v,; ------ ---------- .out the firEt frame, leaving the 1 b d h d f 1 Ph G D It 2 15 Ch P berry scored for Army, only to he c ~ s .an· . a a .ew scatterec · eu- records fell. Swarthmore and Syra- I 1 amma .e ~; : • 1 st ~: followed by Bal,er's tying shot. floor on the short end of a 23 to 18 tnes In the A.A.U. meet. T''\ fol- cu;;e were the victims last ypar. 'South College, 3.15, Kappa Nu \' score, but were able to find .the N t l 4 15 B t Th t P Baker's shot was poorly cleared· by lowing sea.,on was equally ·t~ drab La£t year's team topped all per-1' .eu ra s; . : · · e a e a 1 v~. Tate, the Army goa:lie, and was basket for but five points in the a• the team lost three but finally formance,; as it defeated Trinit'-·, , Stgma Pht. . Eecond half. Meanwhile, led by · 1923 · b k · h · \ ------- deflected back mto the cage from C m It ro e tnto t e wm eoi- R.P.I., McGill and :Vl.I.T., and. Brit- 1 1 ----- aptain Israel, the New Jersey Salisbury's skate with less than a umn by defeating the Schenectady tin, Passe and Murphv led more , resnectivel•·, to give Union a ~hlnl quintet too.k advantage o.f Union's R d c \ • ' m·inute to go in the first pedod. e ross team. record breaking performances. ~·in that race. Smithers was the fault .to 'hit the hoop for 12 points Baker's Shot Wins and the game. '26 TPam Good ----o only Dutchmen to enter Lhe j•.m;p- The Army squad, outnumbering Offo>nsp Fails 9 1 1 ing competition and captured nint.h The 1 24 team fared slight y bet- I Sk\ look G d, place with a creditable !Pap of the Dutchmen by more than two to The Dutchmen corrected one of tc1· than its predeces:oors dunking 1erS 00 s<>venteen mete 1 s. one, pressed hard all during the the·ir faults in the game, that of the Schenectady Red Cross and 1 remainder of the game while the not shooting enough, but then an- N.Y.U. while the '25 natatoro won 1 1 • • I M Scol'ing Dutchmen resorted to tight defen- other fault popped up, not being but one, from R. P. !. The '26 teaw n n 1t1a eet I Total point score:; for the V\li· sive measures to keep the tie, and able to tu:;s the baH with enough hung up the best record to date, · . , cus teams competing were: St. quick ·breaks to score the winning accuracy to outscore their oppon-1 along with last year's rpcord of , Lawrence, 500; Syta~use 452; Col- goal. Going int.:> the th·ird period ents. Captain Rathlev & Co. took· four vict::Jries and two defeats, by The Union College ski team open-' gate, 375 ; Union, 295 ; R. P. I., ~' 42 • the large crowd of Cadets and exactly fifty shots, but were able v;inning from N.Y.U., R.P.I., ed its season this past weekPrr!l and ClarkEon, 176 · Otto SchaiP·b,, their guests pleaded for the home to sink only nine of them. Twenty- M.I.T, and the Schenectady Red by placing fourth in. the St. Low- internationally known skier :tn!l : team to score, but it was Bob seven o.f the :;hots were ftom way Cross team. From that date until r·ence invitation meet held on the • coach of the St. Lawrenc~ tt-am, . Baker who broke loose with the ollt and only five of them tallied, the advent of Joe Wheatley, the slopes near Canton, N. Y. Th·e Lat- '\'directed the various events. , puck on a solo dash to ram a bul- while only four of the twenty-three I fortuneE of the swimming team ries, playing ho:ot, won the meet At present the invitation ~ki I let like shot past the Army goalie, short shots were good. Stevens out- were at an ebb. with one or two vic- with a perfect score with Syracuse, I team is finishing arrangements 1'o1· : midway through the period. Army shot .and outscored Union, complet- 1 tor ies a year, and in a few cases a Colgate, Union, R. P. I. and· Cldrl,-, the ski meet which it is \ponsor- sent four men down the ice in. an · th' 1 f · t fi h t .500 record. son following in that order. I ing at its cabin flt North Creek this· mg · 1r ·een o SIX y- ve s o \· 1 effort to score but ·br.illiant playing Lack of height and reserve pow-,;---------------, John Senn, '41, also coach of the weekend, and is also Ctln~idel'ing ' by the entire Union team, plus er handicap.ped un.ion as much as I Dutchmen team, led his students in i the _possibilities. of a wi!'\ter ski : some beautiful saves by Holme:;; did their lack of scoring power in Hamilton~ Rochester individual performances by plac-l carmval to be held here next vear. \ * * the best team the Dutchmen have events. Other students who mad•~ F 0 R RECORDS Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 stalled the Army attack. the second half. Stevens, which is I Eye F ontball Season ing sixth in the downhill and ::.Jalc,m I AI Ciampa pulled the strings met this s.eason, also has victories Though attention among the the trip and took part in the v:~- The ELITE T AI LQ R h over Hamilton. R. P. I. and Swarth- 1 sporto adicts here at Union are rious events wHe Captain .John I from t e bench aga;nst the Cadets p I ' 2 D' 516 Union Street Ge era as Coach Lawrence was interned in more as well as Cathedral and I centered on Art Lawrence's ace ee. 4 ; tck Marvin, '42; Tom n their alumni to their credit. Ste-; hocke,. club and their recent Hannigan, '44; Bret Smithers, '44; Tu.xedo\' ~or Rent Schenectady with a cold. ' \' ,. 1 C C vens, led' by Captain Ed Israel, pos- 1 victory over Army. as weH ruo Rex Moon, '44, and John Baas, '12. i ce ream orp * * * sess a veteran and powerful squad, ! the current troubles of Coach J. CORNELL, Prop. \ · Dutchmen PlacE' Bob Baker was clubbed on the and appear headed for an excellent : Nitchman and his basketball !..!:==============;;;.!. head by an overly excited Army season. team, a couple o.f out· 1941 grid- Captain John Peel, participating • ------ - - ~--- --· player, who had left his gun in the Rathlt\v Santee Eight Apiece iwn opponents have been far in the cmss country race, was one I locker, but resorted to a hockey from sitting tight and are a!- of the six men to break the record · stick as the next best wea.pon. Bub Israel was high ~corer. leading r·eady J>lanning fut th(• coming on the 5 1 \ mile coutse to gi\·e: went out cold, and the referee gave the field w·ith a total of 10 points, ;eason. Dr. Lanabee. philo,;o- Cnion a fourth place in that even• ' him two minutes in the penalty while Co-Captain :Mickey Rathlev pher and sports en-thusiast, for- while Senn finhhed sixth, Hanni : box for his part in the fracas. He and Paul Santee paced the Duteh- wa1ded u; two clipping\ yester- gan tenth and :Marvin eleventh in i needed it anyway to recover. In- men wHh eight apiece. Ben Jak:)W- day that toJk nute of football the do\- nhill 1·ace5 out of t wen• y- cidentally, the Cadet cooled off f.JI' bowski and Bob Carnrig.ht were a~tivity at both Hamilton and four cvntedant~. Roth Senn a .d five. the only other Union men to find Roche.:ter. Hannigan placed in the ~lal<>m the net during the evening. Ste- \Coach Dud DeGroot, c:1ge1 · til event, finishing .;eventh and ninth, * * * Art Lawrence gives no on<! man credit for the victory, but says that teamwork, and excellent play- ing on the part of the eight men making the trip turned the trick. * * * The victory marked the second win of the season for the Dut~h­ men. against one .Joss and a ·.ie. It was Army's third loss in a row, previous to Princeton and Bo=ton Co·!lege by 6 to 2 scores. Bo::tcn sports one of the best recorcs in the East. * * Up till Saturday, the Dutchmen had dropped ten straight to the Cadets without hitting the win col- umn. The last time the two teams met it was Army, 10 to 0. The lineup: Unipn (2) Army (1) flolrnes ........ (} ......... (}arvin Hartt ........ R.D.. . . . . . . Grygiel E:eppler ....... L.D........ Plume Baker .......... C. . . . . . . . . . . . Tate Thompson .... R.W ...... Woodruff Wikoff •...... L.W........ (}i!bert vens. substituting freely during the FiZP up next fall's Uni\·ersi.ty r>f game, s·pread the scoring evenly Rochester gridit·on hopefuls, is between two teams Lineup: planning to start a winter foot- StPvf\ns- G F P ball sc:osion in February,\ sta7,.s Israel, rf .............. 5 0 10 an Associated PI eof notice . Martin, r·f · · · · · · · · · · · · · 2 1 5. Whether he has beaten the big Krake, If · · ·. · · · · · · · · · · 0 2 2 1 time> g1 idiron teams and stal'ted Dobi, If ................ 1 1 3 ali eady, we don't know. The Numata, c .... · · · · · · · · · 2 1 5 story goes on to say that the Weber, rg · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 0 \chill drill::;\ will run four days· Connelly, rg ... - .. · ·. · · 0 0 0 a week for four or five wee!{s Lewis, lg ........ · · · · · · · 2 0 4 with emphasis on fundamentals Brestovansky, lg ...... · 2 2 6 and development of material. Tuttle, lg ..... · · · · · · · · · 0 0 0 The New '.:.. orK Post, through Totals ............... 14 7 35 the medium of John Mitchell's Union- G F P column, gives notice of activity Carnwright, I'f ......... 1 1 3 · up at Hamilton College. Forrest I Vinick, rf .............. 0 0 0 Evasheviski, fil'st string quarter- Jakabowski. If ......... 2 0 4 back for the past two or three Macomber, If .......... 0 0 0 ~·ears en the l\!iC'higan elewn. is · Rathlev, c · ·. · · · · · · · · · · 2 4 8 Echeduled to join the Hamilton Bartlett, c ............ · 0 0 0 coaching Etaff soon. Evasheviski Turchick, rg ........... 0 0 0 was Tom Harmon's blocking Lee, rg ......... · · · · · · · · 0 0 0 back and perso:~al bodyguard Santee, lg ........... · · · 4 0 8 on· the gridiron, as well as a Hillick, lg .............. 0 0 0 brilliant leader. Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 5 23 Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 · Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUk MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction\ 598 B'way - For Better Values Spares Union-Panoff, Hastings, May, Breed. DOUW F. BEEKMAN J. S. HANDELMAN Army-Peterman, Munns, Ray, Elsberry, Phelan, Corcoran, King, Salisbury, Lambert, Frankosky. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper. One Step frorr State Streei Gasoline, Brake Service U. S. Tires, Motor Tune-up Exides LUbrication Chains Have Your Car Ready For Winter Driving 60 I UNION STREET Open Until 11 P. M. II :.I llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ - - - -· I Have you tasted . l1 - - - -· - - - - ! DOBLER ~~ - - = = = ~~N. - I BEER and ALE ~: QUALITY GROCERIES and MEATS Fresh Fruits and Vegetables Daily Fresh Butter and Eggs FREE DELIVERY Phone 6-6016 920 State St. = =i !iiJJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfi: I~~--------------------------' ' I • j I \ \ \\en's the retres\l\n~ treat ~ou rea\\~ ~o tot ... de\\c\OUS DOUBlEtA\tf{ GUlli s lit.e- . th cam:pu Right in. step 'Wl G:UM. PlentY of. UB LEMlNT . h 'W that's DO Swell fun. to c e \ xeh:eshing flavodt. oUBLEMINT fits all d y A.n. D ,, af.tet \ \ \ evetY a · \b ll sessions, 1 , occasions- u Chewing b.e ps \ class, eluting gymt~ -r..:r elps brighten. \ bxea .i.l.· .LJ. r ttle sweeten you'I A d it costs so 1 \ yout smile, t~o. :ouBtEM.lNT GUM. Y ou can. en)OY 1 packages todaY. I . Buy seveta v-•s , dailY· · _ _..../ \ \ \ -- \-..._ __...--·--- I'

Pag-e Four Hall Preparing Defense Training Courses' Budget 650 Schenectadians At the 16 Bi-Weekly Engineering Classes The final budget of the Union engineering defense training eve- ning coun;e i~ being prepared b:,- Professor Russell A. Hall including the consideration of the purchase of about $3,000 worth of equipment and $1,000 worth of scientific books which w.ill become the property of the college on completion of the course. About 650 Schenectadians are at- tending the 16 courses rcgula1ly with 305 on Tuesday and Thursday evenings and 338 on Wednesday and Fridays. One lecture class in \:Production and Cost Control\ is probably the largest single class ever taught at Union with more than 100 enrolled. Attendance a:t the classes is fairly high for such a program with more than two thirds of the enrollees at- tending each session. said ProfPssor Hall. After four consecutive ab- sences, a student is dropped from t-he course. Speciall:,· qualified stu- dents are still being admittE'd to the courses accord-ing to the policy of the National Education Com- mittee, sponsors of th€' special courses. Two N('w Cours('s About 50 wome11 are em o!led in the cours('s with a:bout 35 in one drawing class. Two new courses have been add- ed to the curriculum on \Method Improvement by Motion Study or Efficiency Engineering\ and \Me- ch-anical Power Plant Engineering.\ The teaching staff has been in· creased to 38 instructors to instruct the estimate-breaking number of students. Instructors are: C. Dant- sizen, A. H. Fox, J. E. Paul, F. E. Boisvert, A. DeLisa, C. F. Heath, C. A. Aronson, A. L. Duiz, C. W. Gisner, F. J. Yunker, A. Martin, H. P. Sisk, W. C. Spruce, M. F'. Sayre, C. V. Strain, C. B. Hurd, S. J. Haef- ner, E. J. Jackson, R. B. Bodine, J. H. McKee, Stanford Neal, J. G. Hodge, R. L. Stanley, J. K. Salis- ·buz·y, E. W. Thatcher, F. J. Studer, E. K. Bacon. F. C. Schmidt. C. E. Sunderlin, J. D. Porter, S. C. Stan- ford, H. H. Uhlig, L. L. Wyman, C. J. Walker, F. L. Kinum, and C. W. Bryant. Union professors teaching in the program have termed the defPnse students \interest('d and eager\. -o-- Stanford University Offers Writing Prizes Dramatists· Alliance of Stan- ford Univer~ity offers a sixth an- nual series of competitions in dra- matic writing, closing date to be April 15, 1941. Since the Univer- sity celebrates this year its first fifty years of service ( 1891-1941) it is hoped that writers m:ay use materials or chara-cters of the pe- riod covered, but this b not re- quired. Awards of one hundred dollars. in cash, production at the University, and guaranty of rec- ommendation to Samuel French, Nationar Broadcasting Company, American Educational T h e a t r e Confez·ence, Pasadena Playhouse, are offered for verse drama and prose comedy (full length or one- act). Fifty dollars and the same recommendations are offered for short plays taking 20 or 30 min· utes and suitable for radio use. Fifty dollars and presentation in the Alliance's. publications are given for dramatic criticism (brief or extended). All nraterial submitted should be legibly written or typed on one side of white pape1·, strongly clipped or bound, and accompanied by self-addressed envelope wi-th correct return postage. A fee of one doHar is cha;rged for expenses of annual- correspondence, filing, express- costs to judges and pro- duction plans. Prizes are pre- sented in Aug,ust during Dram- ati.stE' Assembly, annual meeting of contri-butors and general public, at which winning plays are dis- cu~ed and presented, and general problems of theatre are canvassed. Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1941 CALENDAR Tonight Philomatheans ·To Three Union Men Mountebank Cast· 8~i~~it~~ ~o~ttr~~~dews, M -eet Cincinatti ln Ne~ CAA Class Starts Rehearsals Youn~~~nt~~~~d rr~:d~:5~n 11 hall, 8:00 p. m.- Public Lecture. Pro- fessor· S. StephenEon Smith of AS CAP. 8:15 p. m.-American Chemical Society Meeting, R.P.I., Troy. Spealter, Dr. John Chipman of M.I.T., \The Chemistry of Liquid Steel.\ 8:15 p. m.-Skidmore Alumnae Dinner·, Hale House. Tomorrow 9-11:30 a. m.-1-4:30 p. m.-Pay- ment of Tuition and· Repeated Course Fee, Comptrol'ler's Of- fice, All clas~es. 10:00 a. m. Daily A-isembly. Spealter, Mr. George Skinner, Broadcast Music, Incorporated, Memorial Chapel. 2:00 p. m.-Fr·eshman Hockey, Union vs. Darrow at Schenec- tady. 3:30 p. m.-Glee Club Rehearsal, Hanna Hall. 5:00 p. m. -- Public speaking clas::<, Oh.L Chapel. 7:00 p. m.-Bible Study Group, Home of Professor Taylor, 38 Union Avenue. Thursday 9-11:30 a. m.-1--1 :30 p. m.-Pay- ment of Tuition and Repeated Course Fee. Comptroller's Of- fice. All classe<•. 10:00 a. m. -- Daily Assembly, Speaker·. Mr. Dudley Holmes, '-11, \Hocln•y Memoria I Chapel. 7:30 p. m. Faculty Men's Club ~leeting, Hale House Lounge. Friday 9-11:30 a. m.-1-4 :30 p. m.-Pay- ment of Tuition and Repeated Course Fee, Comptroller's Of- fice. All classe::>. 10:00 a. m.--Daily A~sembly, Or- gan Recital, D1·. E. A. Tid- marsh, l\lemorial Chapel. New Radio Programs Scheduled by College A total of 18 radio programs, other than Radio V\'01·kshop pro- ductions and the Sunday chapel sHvice, have been scheduled by the college for broadcast during the month of February. The programs \l'('.re arranged by the college and the News Bureau and are handled tb.rough the News Bureau. A new radio program, \The Union College Science Roundtable,\ has been added to the series and will be broadcast every Saturday afternoon from 3 to 3:30 o'clock. The opening program on February 8 will be a discussion over WGY of the place of mathematics in (Veryday life by faculty members of the Mathematics field. On Feb- mary 15 faculty members of .the field of Physies will discuss the contl'ibution of this science to our modern ci-vilization. The contribu- tions of Chemistry to the Modem \v orld will be th~ discussion topic for members of the Chemistry De- partment on February 22. Further round table topics have not yet bt>en announced. Every Saturday from 1:30 to 1:45 p.m. the American Faith lectures in chapel are repeated over WGY. A series of Democratic Pzocesses speakers are presented from 5:30 to 5:45 p.m. Last Saturday Dr. Paul Birdsall. Professor of History at Williams College, spoke on \Con- ti ol of Foreign Polky in a De- mo<'racy.\ This coming Satuzday 0r_ Donna! V. Smith, Professor of Social Studies at New Yor·k State CollegP for Teachers, will speak on • Our Democratic Heritage.\ Later spE'akers will bP Dr. Clyde B. Moore. Pz·ofessor of Rural Educa- tion at Cornell, who will lecture on \Old Brains and New Ideas in a Democracy.\ and Dr. Albert B. Corey, Professor of History and Governmen:t at St. Lawrence Uni- versity, who will speak on \Joint Implements of Peace: Canadian- 1 Amer·ican Achievements.\ ICE CREAM Visitors on Extended Eastern Trip; Discuss Hemisphere Defense The Philomathean Society will be hosts this Thursday afternoon to a team of University of Cincin- natti debaters who a;re on a 3,000 mile tour of Eastern colleges. The subject of the debate will be \Should the nations of the Western Hemisphere make a union or a·lli- ance to pretect themselves from foreign aggression?\ Three College of Liberal Arts juniors will compose the Cincinnatti team. They are Karl Keck, a psy- chology major; Carl Rubin, man- aging editor of the University News Record and finalist in the Alice M. House debating contest; and Rob- ert Wessel, a member of the Y. M. C. A. ca•binet and the debate coun- cil. The chairman of the discussion will be Harvey Fishbone, '43, and the Union partici-pants will be Boyd Golder, '41, Adam Ciesinski, '41, and H. Melville Messenger, '43. Visitors Busy During their trip, the Cincinnatti debaters have had interviews with Senator Barkley of Kentucky and Vice-President Henry Wallace. From Schenectady the team will travel to Syracuse for a debate with Syracuse University on Thursday evening. Last night at the meeting ef the Philomathean Society, Professor William W. Bennett led a discus- sion on \Strikes and National De- fense\ which centered on the extent and importance of the strikes and both efforts made to reduce the number of strikes and toward con- ciliation. Next week there will be a discussion of the \lend-lease\ bill, and the names of the participants in this discussion will be picked from a hat. All students who are interested in this bill are invited to attend this meeting. Last Saturday evening Edgar Fisher, '42, and· William Birdsall, '42, participated in a radio debate on Station WCNW in Brooklyn against members of the Columbia University debating team on the question: \Is indoctrination neces- sary and desirable in our educa- tional system?\ PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. LANGE & RAPP PHARMACY \Service for the Sick\ Ideal Friendship Gifts Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE ST. DAIRY PRODUCTS WM. GREEN JR. DAIRY 1701 Union St. Call Ball and Ball Will Call ~~b,~i··.·?c··a····f' ... -~3··.-··.· ... · .. ·.·· .· .6 .. - ....• l··· ...... -.·····.··' ... - . - L ; ·. . J' a- .. . . . · '/ ~ · C.leoMrs \. .. \. ·. · &D-.r·>\'> Tel. 3·2161 PHONE 6-3456 GAZETTE PRESS Printers Three Union men were among H b d orna;te architectural monstrosity of t·he forty odd students who started Directress' us an . the twenties). Smokers, Imprompts their ground school C.A.A. work I T o· t hf'ld as usua:l.\ last night. F. Emmett Evans, '43, S . emporary . 1rec or St. Andrews ever has taken a Elarl Wardell, '42, and Dmaald For Next Production certain pride in its detachment Wells, '43, passed their physical from the world at large. The 'var- examinations late last week and First rellearsa1 for the next sity has always had an Officers w.ere certified. Several other Union Mountebanks play, Gogol's \The Training· Corps; last year it num- men have yet to take their exami- 8 bered ap·proximately half of the Inspector-General\ was held · un- natiun. men students and apparently it Dr. Everett Thatcher, co-ordina- day evening at 8:00 p. m. in the not much larger now. After a pub- tor of the ·C.A.A. work, said in Sat- Mountebanks Theatre, under the lie appeal for volunteers by Sir urday's chapel that, at the con- supezvision of Ja-mes Russo, whe is James Irvine, a reporter of the elusion of the present program, f th university magazine writes, \Ques- acting as temporazy diDector o e 137 students will have been aided lions asked revealed the concern in obtaining their private pilot production. Mr. Russo, husband of of students for the time involved. ratings. Of these, 106 men and four Camille Staneska. who Is officially The prospect of 210 parades appear- young women have held C.A.A. · director of the production, is carry- ed to be a deterrent. . . . Lie~­ scholarships which cover all ex- ing on some of the preliminary tenant Nisbet said that the in- penses of the student training ex- work of rehearsal while his wife is tention was to interfere as little cept small incidental fees. Texts as possible with university sport.\ and forms for the course are fur- fulfilling an obligation in a Florida. ~~~o--- nished by the .federal government. theatre. NOTICE d f S f t The first round in the handball Recm• Q a f' Y After the Sunday evening zehear- tournament must be compieted be- . AIL exceptional safety record was sal, Mr. Russo spent Monday in. fore Saturday, February 15. cited by Dr. Thatcher when he. meeting the cast, acquainting him- ;:;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::::;:::::=; pointed out that the Schenectady self with the Mountebanks' organ-· training course has been unmarred ization, and completing the casting by accid·ents· of any sort causing for the production. A rehearsal was phy.sical injury to either students also conducted last night .by Mr. or instructors. A recent release Russo. He left Sc·henectady on from Washington made the state- Tuesday and Gordon A. Rust, fac- ment that 25,000 student pilots in ulty adviser to the Mountebanks, 3,000 training ships had, up to will conduct rehearsals until Mr. IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State Street -Our Service is Ideal --Just Try One Haircut October 1, 1940, flown 900,000 hours 1:1R~u:ss::::o_:'s~re:_t~u~z_:n~e~a~r~ly:,;in~M~a~r~c~h~. -:-:-:-:-:::-~~~~;::::~~;:::~::;:::;~;:::;:;:;;:;:;:;:;=;:;:~ with but three student fatalities. ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll= Figuring the flying speed of the = E: 900,000 hours at 80 miles per hour, Dr. Thatcher estimated that that meant 72,000,000 miles had been - flown with an average of one fatal acc-ident for 24,000,000 miles. There are approximately 20,000 automobiles in the city of Schenec- tady, Dr. Thatcher said. Insurance statistics reveal that the average - distance driven per year is a·bout - PATRONIZ.E CONCORDIENSIS ADVERTISERS 8000 miles. Thus these 20,000 cars - covered a grand total of 160,000,- - 000 miles in 1940. In the same year _ ther-e were twelve fatal accidents IE: or one for each 13,000,000 mile::, 1 :: : according to Dr. Thatcher's figures. ;'llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll i. • Broadway's Newest Star CAROL BRUCE of ' LOUISIANA PURCHASE\ Copyright 1941, LIGGE1T & MYERS TonAcco Co. DO YOU SMOKE 1HE CIGARET1E THA:.f\'+ it's the milder better-tasting cigarette ••• the smoker's cigarette Chesterfield has so many things a smoker likes so well that it's just naturally called the smoker's cigarette. You always enjoy Chesterfield's COOLER, BETTER TASTE ••. and they're really MILDER-not strong or harsh. Get yourself a pack of Chesterfields. • [ L-5 Vol. Se Sci Iss s s II Th fort 75 ou list i class men hono pass! had, *Ra1 for t Ba old, Beck Briel Al-be Calla *Ja·rr III., Dejn liam Melv ston, Gree Thor Hem G. I nosk W1 LaCE Low~ Jr., \ F. I'l ence Jam< Parjj Pott• ert l w.! ston Schli Sem< Shav Suga *Da' TUIC Willi BS Canf Paul Har< Smit BS Cecil Hal'' ser, Grif: BE Hob< :m Ba Aldr Solo: Boll, Corr rice D. l Berr dricl G. F tagli L. I. kenz liam Ang: !tins •Ec' Shel Will B·~ R. *Ric Man dare m Har< long liam lyn, Rob· Wal- Val~ m Bla1 W.l m ''Sar B! Abo' Z. E liam Duf, aid ert Le01

y of a var- the it pub- Sir the ues- ved. ear- in- be- mF. • Dorsey Wins On Junior Ballot l Z-511 Vol. LXIV., No. 30 Second Se.mester Scholarshi:p Li·st Issued By Dean Seniors Rank First; Sophomore Class Low In Quarterly Report The class of 1941 led all classes for the second marking period with 75 out of the 221 men on the Dean's list it was announced today. The class of 1942 ca:me second with 55 men while the class of 1944 with 46 honor men began to catch up and passed the clas~ of 1943 which only had 45 listed this time. * Ranks in the firs.t ten in the class for tbis marking .period. CLASS OF 1941 Bachelor of Arts-Robert D. Arn· old, Lloyd Bartholomew. Paul W Becker, Leland L. Beik, Richard L. Brickley, Charles J. Bruesch. Jr., Albert S. Callan, Jr., Robert R Callander, Ernest A. Cer·asano *James C. Cooper, *Albert A. Davis, III., Ed.ward DeFeo. Jr, Ladislav Dejnozka, William Edwards Wil- liam K. Flynn, *Robert W. Frelick, Melvin F. Gerritz, Robert J. Gil- stan, Boyd E. Golder, Manuel Green, Dicldnson E. Griffith, Jr., Thomas E. Hannon, George W. Hemstead, II., *Robert S. Herman G. Dudley Holmes, John J. Kali- noski. Edgar I. Keers. Warren ·C. Kimmey, Salvatore P LaCerva. *John P. Lewis, Arthur E. Lowenthal, Leonard C. Macltenzie, Jr., Adfur E. Maines. Jr., Rayrr.ond F. Male, Roger D. Marshall, Clar- ence H. McCain, Howard 0. Mott James A. O'Connor, Gordon H. Parker, John D. Phillips, Philip S. Potter. Jr .. Thomas Pritchard, Rob- ert A. Quinn, John W. Reid Daniel W. Roe, *John A. Ruskowski, Win- ston A. Saunders. *Llo;yd M. Schloop. *Laskar Schwartz, Louis Semenoff, John W. Senn, James G. Shaw, Ernest A. Staley, *Milton H. Sugarman, Leonard A. Taylor, *David V. Tiedeman, *Alexander Tmchi·ck, James E. Twining, Jr., William H. Walker. BS in Civil Engineering-John F. Canfield, *Henry L. Crosby, Jr., Paul V. Mara, Robert G. Murp·hy. Harold 0. Nadler, Thomas C. Smith, Jr., Edward J. Ward. BS in Electrical Engineering- Cecil E. Angell, George S. Becker, Harvey F. Connor, *Jack W. Dan- ser, John E. Greaney, Richard C. Griffin. BS in Cht>mistry - Robert W. Hobday, John H. Spittle B!il in Physics-R. Gordon Gould. CLASS OF Hl42 Bachelor of Arts - Raymond E. Aldrich, Jr., Alexander J. Arony, Solomon L. Blechman. *Hansjoezg Boll, George W. Clark, Arthur T. Corrigan, Louis A. Dacundo, Mau- rice Deul, Donald C. Field, *Robert D. Forrest, *·Delphis C. Goldberg. Bernard F. Haake, Harolc! V. Hen- drickson, Robert W. Howard, Sam G. Kohlenberg, William A. LaBat- taglia; Philip J. Landry, Jr .. Arthur L. LaRoche. Jr., Kenneth E. Mac- kenzie, *Keith C. McCandless, Wil- liam E. Moore, Nicholas Morelli. Angus T. Morrison. Warren E. Per- ltins, Donald M. Phillips, Frederick *Edward P. Shapiro, George H. Shell Roy H. Webster, Clayton L. Williarr.s. BS in Civil Engineering-Donald R. Brockwehl, *Fred J. Longe, *Richard H. Marvin, John J. Mc- Manus, Harry E. RHenbar k, Theo- dore D. Robinson, II. BS in Electrical Engineering - Harold H. Britten, Joseph F. Fur- long, Jr, Edward J. Kalenik, *Wil- liam R. Kruesi, Robert W. Llewel- lyn, Robert Panoff, James A. Peel. Robert I. Reed, *Harry E. Stevens, Walter F. Thiessen, Howard E. ¥an Valkenburg, H. Donald Wells. BS in Ohl\mistry - David K. Blake, Charles 0. Bostwick, Robert W. Davison, *Solo:non Penner. BS in Ph:\·sics-Francis H. Coffin, *Sanford P. Thompson. CLASS OF 1943 Bachelor of Arts-Donald E. Abood, Robert M. Bishop, Richard Z. Bouton, *Emile J. Brunet, Wil- liam H. Cummings, Jr., John M. Duford, Harvey J. Fishbone, Don- ald G. Geisel, John Gulnac, *Rob- ert M. Kahn, *Joseph E. Ledden, Leon Levine, *Everett H. McCarty, <Continued on Page 4) UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y .. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1941 Flora Robson Interview to Gives Union Flora Rabon, star of \Ladies in·~-- Unscheduled Thomas Bee(ha.m ._J!ecogn_~z~_rs_ English Comp· ose.r ~et-ire_ment,\ gave an ur:scheduled signed they could make her play L t T • ht mtervi~W Tuesday evenmg . char- I ales which sire might not specially . ec u res onlg: . acter1zmg Schenec~ady audien~es -care to portray. as good_ and dammng the movr~s To prove her point Miss Robson for therr efforts to type her m said tha:t she had first been of.fered horror roles. tl:e part of Mrs. Danvers. the sin- Four junior were sipping their ister houselteeper of \Rebecca\ but brew peacefully in the renovated had refused it because she did not Van Curler bar room when they wish to become any type in the were disturbed by the Etar, in- public mind. In \Ladies in Retire- cognito in dark glasses, trying to ment\ .she plays the part of a house- get into the seat at the next table. keeper-~o:npanion, who mm ders her A moment later ::he took off her elderly mistress to protect her crazy glasses and one of them recog- sisters. Both the movie role and nized her· as Fl.ora Robson. the stage pai-ts are \sinister\ char- None of the quartet had seen her acters. in her local appearance but one re- Schenectady was cal!ed a \good membered her face having seen her audience'\ by Miss Robson. Her act in London some ~·ears ago. He only trouble with it came in the got up, introduced himself and the scene w.hez e the maid dressed as others and the five of them settled the murdered Miss Fisk, dressed as down for a talk, mostly by Miss housekeeper nearly to death. Mi.ss Robson, about the thea.tre. Robson enters slowly, coming down She ordered a Scotch and Soda into the living room after hearing and began con•trasting the movies her nephew play fhe song the dead with the stage. M. G. M, she said, woman loved. The scene is one of had just offered her a seven year both horror and humor and the contract which she ·had refused. audience \br•oke\ too early forcing The movies were not interested in Miss Robson to speed up her ac- your a~ting ability but -in your tion money making ability and that was After Miss Robson had taken not art to her . .She would be in- leave of them, the juniors agreed clined to be typed and bound in tha·t she wa.s truly a gracious un- contracts and that was not what affe~ted lady. Her British accent she wanted. Once they had her I e3;.;e~ially pleased them. Dance After Game I Musical Satires Impossible Now Reviving Theatre Prof. Wittner Recalls Dancing Followed '20 Basketball Games Turn Toward Social Ideas Healthy Sign Dr. S. S. Smith Says \Modern Music\ Topic Of Conductors Speech For Chinese Relief Sir Thomas Deec:ram, noted Eng- lish symphonic conductor, will ad- dress Union tonight at 8:30 on \Modern Music and Music Mak- ero.\ The lecture, which is being sponsored by the American Bu- reau for Medical Aid to China, will be open to all Union students free of charge. There will be an admis- sion charge for the· general public of $1. Friday afternoon Sir Thomas will attend a rehearsal of the Tri- Cities Symphony Orchestra a:: the guest of Mr. Armand Balendock, conductor. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Director of Music,. will have Sir Thomas and Mr. and Mrs. Balen- dock as his g.uests for dinner in Hale House before the lecture. Sir ThGmas Completely British Dr. Tidmarsh ;~o\esterday termed Sir Thomas \completely British in appearance with impreccable Lon- don tailoring and a certain air of austerity and reserve, but friendly and a:s easy to talk with as an American insurance salesman w-ith with a keen sense of humor.\ Sir Thomas' lecture tonight will be on \Modern Music and Music Makers,\ a subject on which he, as a composer, is well qualified to speak on. In Amer·ica, howe-ver, the Britisher is best known as a con- ductor, having been director of the New York Philharmonic Symphony during the 1932 season and guest conductor in Boston, Philadelphia, Possibilities of a vic dance after \A double current of meaning St. Louis and Toronto. home basketball games on Satur- and a turn towards social ideas,\ Another intellectual purs.uit that day evenings this year were rather is coming into the American thea- he holds closely parallel to muoic ended when Profe&:or J. Harold tre in the form of musical satires, is the reading of poetry. He be- Wittner, Director of Athletics, Professor S. Stephenson Smith told lieves t·hat the decline of interetit pointed out that there remained , students Tuesday night in an in- in poetry has affected music as the but one more home basketballl 1 formal lectur·e. On leave of a-bsence two are cloo;ely related, and cites game before the season closed. from the Univerf'ity of Oregon the poetry of Edgar Allan Poe as However, he .:aid that the idea where he is professor· of English an example of \musical poetry.\ was one that rnlght well be con- and comparative lite·rature. Dr. The fact that poetry is no longer sidered for next season. Smith is making a study of the widely read in scho.Jls and homes ' Donald Eldred, '42, President of position of the arts· in American has resulted in a generation of the Radio Club, said yesterday colleges for the American Society composers who lack the sense of that the club had the equipment of Composers, Authors and Pub- r·hythm and the lyric quality of needed to install a public address !ilOhers. the composers of the past, he feels. S\stem in the gym. In the past they Pointing out that in the pros- ' da h Early Musical Abilities have constructed such a system on perous ys of t e 1920's, a theat- Alexander Field for us·e during rica! manager would have been Sir Thomas' own musical abilites football. games. laughed c!Jwn for putting politics were marked in hilO early child- on the stage, since the depression, hood. His father, a prominent The club lacl\s a turntable for Dr. Smith declar·ed, interest has Lancashire businessman had great records but Eldred recalled that picked up in politics and the com- t' t' 'fts d h l · d the Mountebanks had one and ed,.· stage has adopted I't. ar rs rc gl an e ear y notice , young Thomas' bent for music and would probably be willing to lend started him on the study of piano it to the club for use in the gym. Rt-vit>ws Musical Productions at the age of five. While still a In the pru;t they have lent it for R · · h d t' f Of student at Wadham College at Ox- test work. Two years ago the club evrewmg t e pro uc wns o \ Thee I Sr ·ng \Let 'Em Eat Cake\ ford, a number of his compositions installed a public address Eystem .. , · ' . , in the gym for the freshman dance and I d Rat_h;r Be ~Ight, . the were performed at the college and which worked well after certain. three first politiCal musrcal s~tlres, at the age of 21, .he conducted at technical difficulties were cleared · the le_cturer· term;d them, ~~ay- hilO na:tive town of St. Helens the away. They would• be willing to do ful, hght fantast?.s of P?htical famous Halle Orchestra, whiell was the same thing for vic dances after the~es of the day. Dr. S_mrth ex- then touring the country. Jts con- a basketball game and would pro- plamed,_ how:ever, that m these ductor, Dr. Hans Richter, fell ill. vide the necessary technical opera- prcductwns, It 1s generally agreed and young Beecham was called tors that George E. Kaufman, a co- upon to take his place. · author of all three,. \pulled his a---- Gym Costs punches.\ In discussing the latter, however, he admitted that the There would be a gym cost to characterization of the chief exe- the sponsors of the dances Profes- I cutive was peculiar to Am. erica. sor Wittner sa~u. The group would \Only in this country,\ he said, be required to pay for the attend- \could this be put on the Ftage. ant's extra time. However, before I Even in England, kings and their any plans could be made for next ministero are never presented over year the matter would have to the boards.\ come. up before the dean for his Thio \gridiron spirit\-the roast- sanctwn. ing of national figures over the Professor Wittner recalled that flames of comedy - \is prevalent twenty years ago dances after bao- enough on the American stage so ketball games were sponsored by that the chief executive and the the Interfraternity Council and officers of the country must be able were a tremendous success. Each to stand kidding .... Even though year the coun·cil realized a large this is insignificant, .it is a good profit after gym and the small sign,\ Dr. Smith pointed out. orchestra costs were paid. Their 1 The production of \Pins and dances cost a quarter per: couplE'.~ 1 Needles\ by the Lad·ies Garment Eventually they were given up Workers Union, under· the direc- when it was discovered that mem- ' tion of Harold Rome. according bers of the council were pocketing I to the speaker, was the first evi· the profit ra:ther than depositing it 1 dence of genuine social criticism in a common fund for the good of \in the light, fr·othy form of va1.'de- all. ville.\ As every other salient in- Later Harold Anson Bruce, t·hen Director of Athletics, sponsored dancing following games but it was never the success the Inter·- fraternity informal dances had been. Eventually the athletic de- pavtment lost over $300 a year on them and the custom was aband- oned for good. novation in the American theatre in the last quarter century, Dr. Smith <hawed that the production was the work of amateurs. Prof. Smith came to Union from Russell Sage. He is making. a tour of American colleges in the inter- ests of discovering new talent for ASCAP. Pearson Makes News Twenty Years Too Soon At least one practical fountain pen was in use 26 years before ref- erence works indicate, it was dis- covered recently in .the correspond- ence of Jonathan Pearson, college treasurer at the time of Eliphalet Nott, by Kenneth Hayes, assistant librarian at the college. Reference books claims that the first practical fountain pens were developed by Lewis Waterman in 1884 and that 200 yere manufactur- ed during the firots year by hand. In a letter dated June 14, 1858, Mr. Pearson wrote to S. R. Gray of Albany: \After using the foun- tain pen one week I have conclud- ed to keep it and have enclosed three 50/100 dollars the price of sa.me. It comes much higher to perfection that I had supposed such a contrivance could come: the pen is excellent, and if the fountain. does not get out of order it will suit me well.\ The letterpress copy of the docu- ment in the college files Ehowed a eant and easily read line of pen- manship. The new fountain pen could write. Dr. Fox's Prom Choict.> Phil Spitalny-All (;irls! \My selecc:on ior a Junior Prom ·band would most assur- edly be Phil Spitalny and his all girl orc'hestra \ Dr. Fox told the reporter who asked hi.:; hel.p in voting for a. Prom band. Prom attendance Dr. ·Fox thought, need not warran-t any \super attraction\ because Eve- lyn and her violin would be a feature in itself. Reminded that such top flight bands as those of Tommy Dorsey and Glenn M:J:er appeared on the prom ballot, Dr. Fox admitted that they migh-t be good choices. But he asked if they could play Boogie-Woogie. The new trend in popular music seems to have -created a favorable im-pres- sion with the president for he thought \Waltzes and Boogie- V/oogie\ appropriate for the prom. Tommy Dorsey Prom Victor Br JACOB H. VAN AERN AM, JR. While a man from BMI stood in the fr·ont ::Jf Memorial Chapel Wed- nesday smoothly stating his case, a man from A:SCAP \tood in the rear of the chapel choppily ripping it apart. In between the men the student body was recording its four fiist choices in \name\ bands in the United Stateo today. A very opportune time for '42 to hold their ASCAP were talking about the poll, after all both BMI and bread and butter for \your four first choices.\ When all was over BMI went its way, ASCAP its way, and the jum- bled up selection of orchestras came this way: Tommy Dor~ey, Glenn Miller, Jimmy Dorsey, Artie Shaw, Gene Krupa, Woody Her- man, Bobby Byrne, Will Bradley, Ray Noble and Count Basie. Yes, Mr. D. won. We aren't sure if BMI's man helped for it's Mr. Dor:oey, who has been helping all the amteur song writers. This poll was held by the Jun- ior Prom Committee to see how the student body felt. It found out. It is now the Commitee's job to take heed of the results. Glenn Miller's popularity is probably due to last year's succesE on this campus, with a slight im- petus from Chesterfield cigarettes. Jimmy Dor::ey is understood to be one of the ranking bands in the country. For ~·ears his· con:otant success in the larger hotels from New York to Chicago, and his many college prom friends prove this. Artie Shaw and his new or- chestra Is· more or less foreign to the east due to its formation and popularity on the coast. Gene Krupa, that master entertainer, is backed by a complete organization and a beautiful singer: result, popularity. ----0--- Radio Workshop Airs Patriotic Play Over WGY The Radiu -;.-orkshop will pre- sent \Jedediah Peck,\ a fifteen minute dramatic sketch, over Sta- tion WGY on Friday, February 21, at 10:30 p.m., it was announced today by the Workshop's executive committee. This· play was selected in favor of the originally .-cheduled skit, \The Declaration of In- dependence\ as s·oon as it was learned that it would be available. The time on WGY Wa£ arranged on Wednesday afternoon by Mr. A. 0. Coggeshall, program director. The presentation will be a part of the state-wide ce·lebration of Civil Liberties Week. Jedediah Peck was an itinerant preacher of northern New York state who fought the Sedition Act which had been passed by a fi'ed- eralist congre::s. He was one of a number of patriots who secur~d its repeal. The sketch concerns his efforts, his failures and his even- tual success under the admini.-<tra- tion of Thomas Jefferson. Preliminary casting was begun Tuesday evening and Wednesday afternoon. Although the ru:::ign- ment of parts is not yet complete, seven men have been as·sured that they will take part in the play. These men include Stanley Green, '43, Donald Green, '41, Myron Mills, '42, Arthur Pastore, '44, Samuel Portnoy, '42 Elwood Starn '44, and Granger Tripp, '43. Satire Revives Theatre PRICE FIVE CENTS Glee Club Sings Before Albany Alumni Tomorrow Program to Feature Songs of Three Lands; Tickets Still on Sale The much traveled Glee Club will open its second semester series of concerts tomorrow night at a .con- cert-dance sponso·red by the Albany Alumni Association. Student tickets for the affair which will begin at 8:30 p. m. in the ballroom of the Hotel Ten Eyck will still be on sale tomorrow in the boukstor e at half price. Sunday afternoon at five, the choir wlil participate in the vesper service of Saint Paul's Episcopal Church in Troy. Brad Hastings, '41, will juin his father in offici- ating at the service. The program which will be sung before the Albany Alumni is de- signed to bring back a spil'it of the campus to the graduates and yet be of musical value to the men who participate, Dr. Elmer A. Tid- marsh, facultr director said. The program includes a representative group of number~ from England, France and the United States. Tl'e American group is made up of negro spirituals described as being as \American as fried chicken and roast corn.\ English Group Opens The first group which is the English group will open with Stephen Townsend's \The Vicar of Bray.\ The song tells the story of the vicar who turned from Papist to Protestan·t, to Papist to Protes- tant so long as he might remain the Vicar of Bray. This will be fol- lowed by \The Minstrel's Song\ by Adam De Ia Hale written in tl:e middle ages and two folk songs taken from the music of Scotland and the Cornish coast of England. They are \Loch Lomond\ and the \Cornish Fiddler's Song\ Edward Schulze, '42, will sing the solo. The second and fourth group will be made up of selected songs by Glee Club quartets. The third group made up of French songs will open with Duparc's \Dream- world\ and be followed with \L'Heure Exquise\ by Reynaldo Hahn in French. Gounod's \Song of the Golden Calf\ from Faust will close tt.is selection of French numbers. The fifth and final group will consist of negro spirituals. \Ezek- iel Saw De Wheel\ taken from the opening chapters of the book of Ezekiel in the Bible will first be sung to be followed by \Wade In De Water\ by Enders and \0 My Lawd, What Shall I Do?\ by David G~ion. A Union College Medley w~ll close the concert. Dancing w11l be to the music of Francis Murphy and his orchestra. Stmday Program The Sunday afternoon program will open with \Grant Us to Do With Zeal\ by Bach, \Jesu Joy for Everlasting\ also by Bach and Palestrina's \Jerusalem\. The sec- ond group sung will consist of \Immortal Invisable\ by Parry \Torrents in Summer\ by Elga; and \Worship\ by Shaw. The third and final group will be made up of Christmas Songs. \While By My Sheep\ a 17th century air will be sung first to be followed by the old French carol \Sleep of the Child Jesus\ \Sleep Little Dove\ and Holst's \Christmas Song.\ The members of the club who will go to Albany include: Second Bases John Bundy -Shaw, Fred Brand: Rob_ert Forrest, Joseph Jaycox, Loms Loeb, Edward Miller, Edmund Kelly, Robert Hayner, Judd Grey. Theodore Grey and Philip Westlake. The baritones will be made up of: ;!er bert R. Smith, Lyle Dean, u-e.o~ge Coley, Thomas Dempster, W!ll!am James Stillman, John Gww, Paul Best, Paul Moran, Wal- ter Thiessen and Elwood Starn. Se~ond tenors include: Donald Stevens, Edward Beargeon. Alexan- der Arony, ·Charles Gould, John Poole. Edward Fliegel. Clair Smith J~hn Lewis and Robert Frelich: First tenors are composed of: Ken- neth Mackenzie, Edwavd .Schulze, Robert Horstmann, Glenn Morris. Abraham Molyneux, Albert Renaldi and Amasa Howland.

Page Two Fuc-.:IJEI> 1377 \ l C:cw.<a Pas a Parole' . I JSai' ~feliiber-nf-tlll'~~(;t.att'd \..'ull~:gt.tlc l'tt~=- .ti•I tll ... tltbutur ~._,i-u~-C~ t~gtat~· }l!gt·::..: _____ ____ _ _ _ _ Thellffidal itl.\\\·~-p;q.H:l-ut tllt.~-;ttit-ltllt~ ul L·l!ltll, LPI•l~t . .'. l'ul.JII:--!lld Tt.t:-· dav a11d Ftltl.L~::> tlu~~u~la•u: th· t'••il• ~·· ~· t: __ _ __ Ed .. fturiul -Huur~Slll.Cil~.tll-fl:Ji-:----c~.- \_ .. ··Lq .. :l-- \\';.~''':-- Tt·h·tnn•llt, St'hcllt l't~tdy, 4-111::;; __ _ Publh•ufion OtYh·~: Tt~~-tz~.._·rh' p,, ...... ~ ~!:;1 S':-:I\tt· ~t. ~~ !it·Hn't.td~. ~ Y. '1\·lephOllt\' -l--1lil kilt~rt·d-att thl' ~~·fi~.·ttt•t'lady l'11~t lltllt , .. 1 ... ~~~ ul tl -l'la!--~ }Lui .\lat!t I sUh-~tTi\i}ti~•n -ptll'e 1.-'l\:e-t·~·nt:-~ ,L-lupy;-$.;.uu a ~l.LI. !ld,\t(l\t ~ll·)''tn·te m tttc L·ntlt.:d ~tah:::.. Senior Board James E. Twining, Jr ............................... Euitot-in-Chief l'lu 1'-.i l.ud;.:,t · 1 ti:,:_:; Lasltar Schwartz ................................ Business .:'.lanager K~ll•P.l :\.u lluU:-t.:-4-; .... .a Robert S. Schulberg .......... , ................... Associate Editor l'!Li :Ste;wa lh.lt.~ lltJlo::Ot:- lo u·~l_i:, Paul w. Becl>er ................................... Associate Editor :.:U :\. l :ulJtil:-.ltll ::-il. 1.1- ~~~;; John D. Phillips ... , ...... , .......................... Sport;; Editor P'\'1 L'p~ilLIH ll1.1U:--I.;'---!-~;1v John P, Lewis ..................................... Editor-at-Large ,\'l;ddk ~t·t lllt!J, .:\Pltll CJI!t·t.:l· tr:J~lt t.: ,J. Donald Haigh .............................. Circulation Manager !'hi lhtta Tht-ta Ht~U .. t• l-1::!1 RaPRESt:.NT6D FOR NATIONAl- AOVaRTISING 19Y National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS AHGELES ' SAN FRMICISC::O Junior Board Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman Samuel Portnoy Sophomore Board Robert Dake. Robert Bishop, Granger Tripp, Thomas O'Connor. Richard \Vatanabe, Arthur Cohen, Everett .:'.icCarty, Robert Ha~·ner, Harvey Fishbone. Robert Allan. P.hotogt aphic Editor --··-~~- --------- -- ---------~ Stanley GrC'enstcin Justin Perlstein Business Staff Hat old :\Iessenger ----·-~~ -.- --~-- - Joseph Jaycox David Hosenblum Issue Editor .................................... Solomon Bl«>e hman Assistants Bishop Hayner· Fishbone Hatt Ft iday. Febt um y 7. 1941 C. A. A. AND THE DRAFT Last week the Cnion College Ci\'il Pilot Training program bep:an its p1 elimina1-y ground sehoul \\ urk for the present :semester \Yith a total of forty applicant~ of which on]~· thl'ee were C nion students. \\' e congratulate F. Emmett Evans, Earl Wardwell and Donald \Yells fm· availing· themselves of this excellent opportunity to qualify fo1· their civilian pilots licenses IJut on the othe1· hand we can feel nothing but re- morse for the many eligible men who have not even bothered to it1\'estigate the pl'ogmm. The cost to participate should be of no consequence to the majority of l'nion students for the total expenditure does not exceed twenty-five dollars of which ten dollars is consid- ered as a course fee, six dollars as a ret1·i1Jution for the gov- ernmen-t medical examination, while the remaining nine dol- lars is in the form of an insurance premium covering the stu- dent with one thousand dollars worth of p1·otection I'm· hos- pital and medical expenses as well as three thousand dollars worth of life insumnce. Any doubt that should exist in the applicants mind concerning his physical fittness could be easily alleviated with a pt·eliminmy examination by one of the college physicians. The results obtained through this examination very closely approximates those gotten by the govemment doctot·s and thus relieves the necessity of the applicants losing the medical fee. At the present writing not one CA.A. pilot of the Schenec- tady area has suffered an.r physical injuries while flying under the government super·vision and only three fatalities have been repm'ted throughout the country. This safet,\· record evidences the fact that with proper care the prospec- tive pilot license holder should not be fearful of the hazards of flying. Dr. Everett Thatcher co-ordinator of the program for the Schenectady area has declared that some Arm~· officers find those men who take Lhc Civil Aeronautics course desirable material for continued wo1·k in the military flying corps and thus for advancement in the IJoth branches of the service. THE CO::-\COHDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1941 Tribute to · Count Sforza The following tribute to Count Sforza was written by the wife o!' a gn1>duate of Union College. COUNT SFORZA The Old Chapel will never seem the same; Now that he is gone. Others will come and go And for theit moment briefly huld' the stage. But who without usurping, can >'land here \\'here all thesP we~ks at the appointed hour It was our tare dl'light to welcome him? \\'ho can think of him without ;ense uf luss-- \\'ho gave so much beyond t'he wot·ds he spoke! Dignity was here. Fau\ltless courtesy;-- .:\luch acquaintance with cuurlli and popes and kings; Exquisite cultUI•e,--t.he suavities And high excellences tha:t distingui~h The accomplished. Disciplined rt'>:lerve and, Finl'sse that reveal the aristuct at. So n'uch, one was prPpated to meet, in one \\'hose lineage for centuries, has borne The Sfurza cre;t. These ,things one hoped to Iind, And found indeed! BHt rhere was so much else, Qualities that Bpoke to heart and spirit Even as his words inspired .the mind. \\'ith what easy grace he moved among the Centuries, Touching dull histoty with Quicl,ening life; summoning from dusty Tomes, distant graves, and fetgotten ages, The immortals! Truly, Dante has walked Before our eyes,-Florence was here,-Na.ples Still royalist,-rememhering her kings. Leonardo is not less ali-ve than Croce, I-taly's CUI rent, 'greatest mind,'---'but who Can 1·eally hope to transmit in words, The beautiful simplici·ty, with which He,-Master of Irony,-sophisticate,- With an indescri:ba-ble tenderness Told the old, sweet legend of Assisi, Until St. Francis with his winged folk Made the fire-breathing Mussolini Seem absurd and trivia:!, as some tale Of aneicnt brigandage,-soon forgotten! And there were c·haz ruing reminiscences, Inimitable in their dtollery, Sparkling with infectious laughter,-suddenly Hcartcbrea·king in their gallant gaiety. These were some of his gUts In words. But how Express the gentle !{indliness that smiled Out of his tired eyes, which have looked on A world in ruins? How impart the sense Of unvanquished integrity that burns Lil{e a flame which neither worldly glory ::--1or worldly loss can evet· breathe upon? The Old Cha-pel will never seem the same. Always its wall will speal' of one now gone. Yet alwa) s too, within their compass will Remain, the memory of these hours .. , . -MERI MELANGERIE Conflicting Claims of ASCAP-BMI Seek Approval of College Body The Concordiensis presents a summarized impartial view of the current wm· between the American Society of Com- posers, Authors and Pubilshers. The summary was taken from the views expressed by both Professor S. Stephenson Smith and Dr. Skinner. AS CAP BMI Objt>ct-To reduce the cost of 1 Object-To bl'eak the monopoly music to individual stations by 1 which ASCAP has developed making the network companies pay i through blanket licenses of music their sha.re and to guard against a 1 to do a job of trust busting. complete monopoly of music by 1 Mt>thod of Music Paymt>nt Want- broadcasters. ! ed-A royalty pet piece per use ar- Mt>thod of Music Payment Want- I rangement by which a song wt ite-r ed-Blan-ket licenses whereby iitdi- • would be payed a fixed amount vidual radio stations and networks I each time his piece is played on the pay a fixed percentage of their 1 air. gross income for the use of AS·CAP music whic·h ta·kes a·bout two-thirds 1 Advantage of Proposed Payment of all rad.io time. I Method-Breaks AS_C!'-P moz;.opoly Advantage of Proposed Payment , of means of po~~l~rtzmg mustc and Method _ Make networks which ' opeas radw facJl!tJes to young com- earned $96,000 000 last year pay for I posers. music whic\b they have never ·paid Disadvantag·e of Opponent5' Pay a cent for before and .facilitate use nwnt Method-Mal,es radio owners by individual broadcasters of ea:ch pay for music they never use. En- of 2,000,000 ASCAP tunes without abies ASCAP to maintain monopoly burdensome red tape and bookkeep- and ,overcharge for music until ing. broadcasters are at the point of Disadvantage of Opponents' Pay- losing money because of overcharg- ment Method - Would necessitate ing for music. 500 _letters. a day on part of ea:ch Opening for Youth _ BMI has radw st.atwn manag~r. ~nd would opened the door to young compos- make htt tu.nes p~·ohtbihve to ·use ers who had been excluded from because of ht~h prtces w~ICh would the ASCAP monopoly policy of re- be ask~d for mdtvidual htts. stricted membership and unwilling- Ope>nm~ for Youth ;- Aware_ of ness to consider manuscripts of un- young w.nters,_ ASCAP IS conductmg known writers. two natwn wtde contests for ama- teur and college music writers with Support of Composer~-Compos­ eight scholarships and $1,000 prizes ers flocked to BMI m droves, as rewards. a·mong them a. remarkable numbe.r Support of Composers-Not one of of competent talented young must- the 1.250 ASCAP composers has left cians. the fold. Results-Young composers get a Result - Motion picture attend- break as nine songs on the Qest ance increases on nights public used seller list of the Hit Parade last to listen to radio. \Forced feeding\ week were published or licensed by of B. M. I. music is unsuccessful. BMI. Five \Ladie:; in Retirement\ anc! I students buying a :;pecial season c>n•c nun appealed in S~\h<.>ne~tad~ p3s8 for cfhe remaining six shows for a one night stand and had the to be presentrd at the Erie. Three audil'r.ce in stitche-<. A guo<.! time of the forthcoming productions wi:II was had ·by all. and the reason~ be: \Life \\'H\h Father,\ \The Man why are fa·s~inating and involved. Who Came to Dinner,\ and \Pyg- A comedy-m) stet :t is the hat Jest of dramatic types to make plausible or even interesting. Audiences made blase by .horror movies anc theil val'ious devices are ovet·-fin· icl'Y and inclined to be bored by bocies in closets, and hands ·claw- mg out of se~ret panels. \Ladies in Retirement\ is a magnificent ex- ception, written with a thoughtful, delicate touch, and preset ving- a mood which is remarkably constant --thrPading through spine-tingling mystet·~; tendencies to a continued pitch of sustained excitement care- fully restt ained to vivid character· izations. All of which means that the p·lay was not pseuco-dzamatic and gavP the brilliant actresses upput !unities to be mot·e than pup- pets on a stage. Flat a Robson was outstanding, portraying a repressed role which wa,; keyed to the mood of the pro- duction, playing \her part in the re- sttained manner which was the ke} note. She neVPl exaggerated or tried to force a teaction on her audience, resisting the almost uni- ~·Ptsal tendency to play a mystery story with stock over-emphasises. malion \ All the companies who come here with the plays are made up of Broadway stars, usually with the leading Toles taken by the stars who originated the role. If you are interested, sp1 ead the news around, and the exact details as to price, plays, and seats will be announced in the Tuesday edition of this col- umn. It now seems time to defend the title of t.his column, and nothing would be said, except that its nuis- ance value is much too high. The title has been called unintelligible, facetious, pointless, and other equally gt·a·tifying epithets. It seems that a change is dictated, and also an explanation. The title was picked out of the hat of a Concordy editor, and all responsibility is hereby waived. The need for an adequate title seems paramount. We thought of \Deep Breathings on the Sands of Time,\ but that's too long, and we thought of \Art About Town,\ but that's too pointed. How do you like t-he one we've got now? Happy? I thought so. W. E. M. ~--0--- LIBRARY LISTS NEW BOOKS Estelle Winwood was beyond be- lief. It is almost impossible to an· ahze lhc> wav she handlPd her rolP .at' one of t:he zany sistC'rs. Her voice, her gestures, and her sense of what she was supposed to be in Forty-five new books, mostly t.he play gave her performance a fiction, have been added to the col- delightful aura of unreality. All the lege library this week, it was an- rest of the cast was excellent, but nounced today by Librarian Hel- the two outstanding characteriza- mer Webb. This list includes: tions. the clever writing. and the Keynes', How to Pay for _the subtel directing made the show. It War; New Y~rker, Short Stone~; was not a typical Gil\bert MillPl' 1 Brow~, Sentimental Novel m production, but it possessed all the Amenca; ~tlke, Letters to a Young attributes of t-hat impresario· ad- Poet; Whtte, Shelley; Anderson, mil able set nice props clever ~tage Home Town; Blackmer, Expense of tricks. fine' lighting. It was a sur- Greatness; Boynt?n~ Americ.a in prisingly good show. We all liked Contemporary FICtwn;. Brtdges, it, thanks. C;>rrespondence of Brtdges ~nd No matter what line of business you go into after graduation, you'll find the telephone a powerful aid. The position of the young college graduate in this present day status of om· country is one in which eventual military training seems to be a common perspective. It should be the An outstanding event in the past hope of every manu on this campus to see himself in an ad- is equalled by an outstanding event vtew; Clemens, Mark Twatn's Bradley; Brown, Broadway in Re- Travels; Combs, Concordence to Engli\h Poems of John Donne; Conrad, Letters to Marguerite Pa- radowski; Cornish, These Were the Brontes; Daiches, Poetry and the Modern :'World; DeJong, Light Sons and Dar}{, If you're in the selling end, the telephone will help you to save time, cover more prospects more frequently, increase sales and decrease selling costs. vanced position when he does begin tmining for the defense in the future. ThE> Don Cossack f l ·. . . . d l ·. , . t . h I· . l · ., I d . t J chorus. a male group of Russians. 0 ll:s COUlltl~ an t 11:; g'O\ €111111€11 :sC 0 alS llp \a Ue <l will be presented by the Civic lV!u- about five hundred dollars which offers a means to this end sic Association on Tuesday night at has been ig11ored by the many canrpus eligibles. Dr. Thatchel' has again announced that there are some positions 1·emaining in the present semesters CAA program which he filled as soon as the successful applicants appea1·. He assures us however, that any Union College student who meets all of the requirements set up by the college as well as those of the government ,,.ill be shown a decided preference. Indolence should not be a factor in preventing any student from availing himself of this most opportune means of ad- vancement. S. P. the Plaza Theatre. The gt·oup sings various of the Russian folk songs. and an occasional glee club master- piece, whic.h mal,es young col- legians curl their toes and look slightly disgusted with themselves. They are the most distinctive male chorus in the world, and their per- formances have 'been a series of triumphs. The concert will be the most brilliant of the season, and tickets are ava:ilable at the book store for a nominal fee. Don't say you weren't told about ·it. ThPre is the po~sibility of Union Freedley, History of the Thea- ter; Graham, Mrs. Miniver; Graves, Sergeant Lamb's America; Heppen- ~tall, Blaze of Noon; Hough, Coun- try Editor; Kipling, Brazilian Sketches; Lee, Tomb of Thomas Jefferson; Mather, Nathaniel Haw- thorne; M iII e t t, Contemporary American Authors; Myers, Pool of Vishnu; O'Hara. Pal Joey; Pat- ridge, Dictionary of Cliches; Pat- tee, Feminine Fifities; Ross, Or- < Continued on Page 4) If your work has to do with purchasing, distribution, production, administration or collections, the telephone will help you to get things done faster at low cost. Bell System service is so valuable to business because it meets so many varying needs. WHY NOT GIVE THE FAMILY A RING TONIGHT? LONG DISTANCE RATES TO MOST POINTS ARE LOWEST AfTER 7 P.M. ANY NIGHT-ALL DAY SUNDAY. B rec• We. der tel'< roa Yot to 1'100 anc rin nin wit: for on La' d·Hl leg wh O!H Jer twc for ag~ fot· sec Sci ha1 PI~ 3-0 fin los ba1 of at Slil to fot fin a nh m~ of ha H~ H< de wi ha vi< th. pu H: te: !a1 th Sc th ap he ro Rc th ar to th ar sp fo th Tl is th ju ar vi to fc b! tt ct pi f€ tr T B ti it H n C< fl cl L ri rc ir o: b g e, t< 1' 'I; t v a 1i

ken ar- rite.r ount the and com- Pay En- until of has from re- f un- a !)est last by of ne THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1941 Page Three ALFRED FIVE HERE TONIGHT; HOCKEY TEAM AWAY Five Faces Pucksters Continentals Saturday;. Against Larries,. Hamilton Buoyed up considembly by its, The varsity basketball team has t'ecent success on the plains· of· an active wee·kend ahead of H with West Point, Art Lawrence's un-' games. scheduled with .a rangy Al- dermanned hockey squad left yes- 1 fred University quintet in the terday afternoon on a two-gamr ' Alumni Gymnasium tonight and road swing throug.h western Ne·w: with- HatnHton· College tomorrow York. The trip will take the ten m 'night at Clinton. The Dutchmen to ·Canton, for a game this after- 1 wHI reign even favorites with 11oon with St. Lawrence UniVP!'Sit}·. I both team, with good chances of and to Hamilton College'f int!oor 1 ring.ing up their second win at the rink at Clinton for a Saturday eve- 1 expense of one of their opponents. ning mtch. These two contests ' . wind up the Garnet's· rink season; Alfred Will be a hard nut for for the year. 1 the. Dutchmen to crack. Both I Unwn and the Saxons· have lost to Third With Larl'it>s 1 Hobart by similar margins, but T d ··~ . . . .,. 1 AJ.fred also has credit for a victory 0 . aj; - game mall,ed the th1. d over Rochester one of the best meetmg of the year ·betw~en the [small college q~intets in the East. two teams, eac~ sextet having woniThe Saxons are led by two mem- on of the prevwus encounters. St. bers of their undefeated football La~rence won. the firs~ game, 5-2, I team, Bob Johnson and Pike Trig- dut_Ing the Lake .Pl~Cld Intercol- ;~ilio, two fast and aggressive play- leg~ate tournament Ill December, i er~. Agair,.,~ :::;.ochester Trigilio wh1le the Gar~et won the secor;d 1 scored 15 po·ints·, and ·both he and one. ~er~, 3-2, _m Jan_uary .. Captam 1 Johnson are the sharpshooters to JenJ ?.tace, 'i'iho ha\ ~~~n~d ab_out 1 watch. Captain \Eo .. Johnson wHI two-thu ~s of }he La I ~Ies pomts 1 be at center for the Saxons while for _the :>ear, ''Ill agam be on hand Bob Whitwood and Ellie Houth agam to rr:a_k~ things interesting ~ will be at the forward positions fot· the VJsJtmg Dutchmen. He ; the latter a sophomore star At scored both St. Lawrence goals in 1 the guard posts will be \'Pike\ Sche~ectady, and almost smgle- Trigilia, former Vermont .1.thlete, han~1dly beat the ~arnet at La~e i and either Bob Humphre,· or Placid. ;r'?e Laurent1ans d1:opped _a, Johnny Young. Coach Danny· Min- 3-0 . declsJOn to Co~ga~e m the1r nick will be holding Russ Panlee fit st game o~ the ;<,ear, and later and Ralph Rhoades in rP.o3erve. lost to Ham1lton by 6-3. On the basis of these previous sc01·es, and 1 of the Garnet's fine game last we~ek ' At Hamilton Tomorr.)W at West Point, Union is rated a i _on Saturday the ?arnet cagers slightly better than even chance i ~Ill travel. to Ham1lton to. k~ep to chalk up victory number three i mtact their . ten year wmnmg for the current season. . streak agan:st the Con~mentals. . . • By comparative scores this sho1.1.ld Light and fast, Ham11ton may 1 be a close one too as Hamilton find the~e· two characteristics quite has lost to Stevens 'Tech, as have a. help .m the game Saturday eve-' the Dutchmen. Captain Bob Henry nmg, omce the Garnet pucksters of the Continentals ha~ been con may b: beginning to feel the effe_cts the ;:;ick list lately, and with l:>im of their strenuous weekend. Umon absent, the team shou\cl, !Je ;:,or,- has ~ever won a hockey g~me from siderably weakened. With Henry Ham1lton, but Captam D·ud in the lineup Hamilton will have Holmes and Company ?av: evi- a considei'able height >1.dvantage d~nced plenty of determm':t1on to with 'four six footers on the floor, wm this one. The Contmentals Henry, Jack Williams, RoLl Smith, have also lost to Colgate, but their Milt Jannone as well as ~like Finn victory over St. Lawrence prove:o who comes rrear the mat·k. that they will be anything but pushovers for the La wrencemen. Hamilton. like many other college teams will be basing its attacl' largely on one man. In this case, that ·one man is high-scoring Sunny Dale, top point-getter for the Buff and Blue last year, who appears to be heading for that honor for the second year in a row. Add to this the fact that in Royd Lutz, Hamilton has one of the better goalies in the business, and it is easy to see that Hamil- ton's fine indoor arena may well •be the scene of a sensational offensive and defensive battle. Lack Reserves Union I.in~>up N·itchman has indicated that he expects to start Co-Captain Micltc\\ Rathlev at center and Co-Captai~ AI Turchick and Paul Santee at the guard positions. Bob Carndght and Ben Jakobowski will be at forward. Ronnie Macomber and Hank Wysocki will probably see plenty of action as reserves in both contests. Nitchman has been experiment- ing this week with a lin<'up in- cluding Macomber, Wysocki, Carn· right, Turchick and Jakubowski. He does not plan to start ~his line- up in the game this w~P.kend but if the team does n·ot clicl{ against Alfz·ed he might possibly start this five against Hamilton. Coach Lawrence used only two spares last week again:;t the Army, for the very embarrassing reason that that was all he had available. ---------------- This deficiency in reserve strength is probably the greatest opponent the Gamet \Vill meet. Skillful juggling of the spares on hand was an important factor in the Army victory, as Coach Lawrence sought to bolster his numerically weaker forces. Captain Dud Holmes will be in .the nets, and his presence th·ere means a g.reat deal to Union's chances. Bill Hartt and Carl Kep- pler will form the first line of de- fense, while the attack will be in the hands of Fred Wikoff, Carson Thompson, and the irrepressible Bob Baker. The substitution of en- tire new lines will ,be an impossibil- ity, since Bob Panoff and Brad Ha~tings will comprise the entire reserve of the team. Holmes, of course, may be counted on for two full games, and if he is given any chance at all, Hamilton and St. Lawrence scores· may be kept sup- risingly low. As in the past, Law- rence will be counting on his scor- ing ace, Bob Baker, for a good deal of active duty. Baker'& sensational break-aways and his gene.J•al ag- gressive play have been the great- est factor in the Dutchmen's vic- tories thus far. ---o--- Yearling Hoopsters Meet Albany Academy Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 UNION MEN Be completely well groomed Get a Haircut ACME BARBER SHOP \\\here Servi~e is a Pleasl!re 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 Hockey Stars in Last Games of Season Skiers Are H·ost /Swimmers Meet Leading Scorer Top: Captain Dud Holmes pradicing for week~>nd con- tests. Bottom: Bob Baker, center, and leading scoring threat. Daley Mourned By Sport World To Hamilton,. RPI ~-e !:atl~s s!~~f~~g~ The Union College ski team will in their second meet of the year play ho:;t to the R..P.I. and Ham- ,tonight when they travel to Troy ilton sl{i teams this weekend at to mee.t their arch-rivals from North Cree~ a~ the ~nnual Union_ 1 :R. P. I. in the Renti~·elaer pool. It Colleg,e Inv1tatwn Sk:I ~~eet take~ I :iti quite probable that the team place. T. he contest will be run off 1 will do better tonight than at Syra- on Saturday and Sunday. cuse. At any rate the mennen hope Dow.nhill races· and eros,; country· w give a g,ood account of them- runs are listed for Saturday's pro- :oelvc:; in this, their second sti·aight gram. while the slalom and jump· meet away from home. ing events are scheduled fur Sun- .. Pop .. Graham, over at R. P. I., day. Studen.t Coach Johnny Senn finds the situation to ,be the ex- i~ in charge of the entire meet. act antithesis of the one here. Not aided by the ski team and the Out- one letterman from last winter ing Club. was lost by graduation, and this The downhill run, listed for to- group wa:; strensrthened no little mun ow morning, wilJ. be run over. by the ascendency of sevPral mem- the Garnet Trail, while othe five bers of a very fine freshman team. mile cross country race will finish Chief among the~e i:; diver Me- at the Outing Club's North Creek Farland, as fine a performer off cabin. Tom Hannigan, a freshman the one-meter ·board as was seen who is ineligible to participate in in the local pool all last year. the meet, and a schoolboy star last .Q1·cenwood, a di~tance man, who season, will set the trail for the sla- did not swim last year, is back Three years ago, tomorrow. lorn run on Sunday morning. in harness again, and hi~ times this George Daley, '92, departed from Senn announced that the Union year have been ~uperlative. this world which he had served in- skiers would be Captain Jim Peel. comparably well as the sports edi- Dick Marvin. Bob Sertl and him- Ten 1\[en-Nine Events tor who more than anyone else seH. In the first it has entered, at Contrast this outlook with Joe succeeded in turning .&mericans to- St. Law1·ence last weekend, the Wheatley's, which gives the coach ward the playing fields. Dutchmen finished fourth. justs ten men to swim in nine His death was the signal for a events. Minus such three-year nation-wide series of columns by Etandbys aE Chuck Passe, Burt ers through the years and ove1· a . writers who wished to give testi- wide area .... \ Britten, and Mike Harwood, all mony how valuable George Daley lost by graduation, and with many had been toward maintaining clean, But wha·t did George Daley do other expected swlmmers not swim- wholesome sport. His first sports for Union? He helped to rem·gan- ming this year, each of the ten ize Union's Athletic department, be- editor, Charley Sawyer on the New men must, of necessity, all carry ing chiefly responsible for the ap- York Post, was quoted as saying pointment of Hal Wittner as direc- overloadE. Captain Gordon Mur- , .. that \George Daley is a .great tor of athletics and Nels Nitchma·n .phy, in the distances, Hal Bend- sports writer and a grand gentle- ricdson in the breaststroke, Burt as football coach; :he organized and man. I ·gave him ·his first job, you Payne in the dives, and Ed Keers helped the Terrace Council choose know. Here on the \Post back in in the dashes are tile on>y hold- '93. He was a elean enthusiastic the speakels for the annual Block ·overs from last year's varsity. Up U dinner 11929-39) that gave the f h youngster, just out of Union Col- . rom t e freshman team are Bill i lege. Maybe a bit on the crusading college a chance to honor ~ts ath- Wilkin in the da:ohes and Len 'side, but level-headed, a hard letes; as Honorary Fellow Ill Ath- Benjamin in the distances Ed I wmker, and a stickler for detail letic Spo:ts, he spoke not only w~th Green, also a sop:cwmore, ls not I right from the start. You see a lot the varsit;v players !:mt also with I eligible to swim tonight, and the ' of youngstet·s coming ·into newspa- students Ill dramatics and Glee backstroke burden falls upon Bill 'pers that way; some of them Chlub, a~dt Concodr?y 1 h·eporft~rlsd, ·for I Massee. The 400 yard relay event change. George Daley never has\ e was m ereste 111 t ese. Ie s. will probably be swum by Keers, George Carens of the Boston The Schenectady alumm began a Wilkin. Pa•·ne and• Murph\ this movement to erect a \George Da:ley . . \ ' . \' Transcript said, \George Daley was u . 1 •• W . h II combmatwn tak1ng the only first ... emona . e saw 1n t e co ege 1 f u · s a man of high character, whose n b d b P ace or mon at yracuse. stewardship on the rNew York ews m:e.au a memoran urn a: out.-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ Heiald) Tribune lifted that jour- the a~bJtiOus plans for a natiOnal kr I nal's sports pages to the highest I commJttee to raise funds for a I. 1 . . . J George Daley F1eld House on Coun- pomt of the1r existence ..... George ci\l FI\eld B t th\ 1 t\ll 't. I 'D 1 • h 1 · h\ b d C. • u 1s pan s 1 awat \I' 1 at hey~ ·c an~ ayh~n · 1 . 5 uln oun e f. ·fulfillment hom an enthusiastic 1 . I en umas?l, m : 18 smg eness 0 g10up of lovers of s ort. purpose m keepmg a proper bal- p I I ance between amateur and profes- !. sional sport, and in his sincere I esteem for men who are a credit 1 to the sports world. He never as- Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 sumed the veneer of cynicism of I· some men in his craft .... \ PI V I CASSEDY'S PRESENT- W·hen the Quail Come Back to San Quentin by ARTIE SHAW and HIS GRAMERCY FIVE and I The New York Times editorial- easant Q ley --------------- ized: \ ... Truly a 'gentleman of the old school,' ... Through his Food Market You Might Have Belonged To Another NOTICE ability as a writer, his youthful Basketball \21\ matches must be background as a college athlete played by Saturday night. All himself and his lasting enthusiasm matches fo!'feited will penalize' fo.r good _g_ames, tempere~ by the each contestant 10 points. The Eec- WISe additiOn of S(}ber JUdgment ond round must be played by Sat- an_d rich experience. he helped to I urday, February 15. ra1se the standard of play and play- Pleasant Valley Meat Market • HOUSE OF SUNSHINE MEAT PRODUCTS • 586-592 BROADWAY Phone 4-3181-2-3-4 UP TO DATE STYLES $7.50 up FOR RECORDS Call Ball and Ball Will Call • OUk MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction\ • PHONE 6-3456 by TOMMY DORSEY CASSEDY Piano Co. 460 STATE ST. The freshman basketball team will go after its first win of the semmn on Saturday night when it faces the Albany Academy quin~ tet on the latter's C'ourt. The year- lings have played and lost two other games this season, to the R.P.I. frosh and Albany Law School. Two other games with Nett Terrace and Mont Pleasant High Schools were cancelled. You will get ••raste Satisfaction·· Frosted Chocolate . m our It's Bowling Time at Ciampa has chofen a starting lineup· of Vic Peer at center and Warren Harvey and· Sy Meisel at the forward posts. Johnny Clowe will hold down one guard position and either Ed Allen or Bill Hili will be at the other. BRANDHORST PHARMACY \On the Corner\ Union St. and Gillespie PHONE 4-6202 SCHENECTADY, N. Y. REUTER'S ACADEMY 11 Union•s Bowling Center•• 148 Clinton St. Schenectady. N. Y.

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1941 Blanket License Threate.ns Radio,. Music Freedom LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Ho;lmes Analyzes Hockey Situation In Chape~l Talk BMI Lawyer, George Skinner, Flays ASCAP Air Music Monopoly BMI's case was put before the student body in daily as!!en1bly V\'ednesday when Mr. George Skin- ner, a lawyer for the organization, presented th.e at·gument:; o.f that rad·io controlled unit. Picturing BMI as an. organiza- tion \setting out to do a job of trust busting\ Mr. Skinner at- tacked ASCAP'o; m0nopoly of the means of popularizing music and its \policy of charging all the traffic would bear.\ The profits of the broadcasting industt·y were be- ing threatened as well as the fl'ee dom of the American commetcia! radio s~'lStem by ASCAP's demanJ that the networks pay 7\o pe.r ~e·lt of their gross· income as weH a~ at the broadca:;ting s0urce. he claimed. Request New Contract In February, 1939, Mr. Skinner ~aid the National Assoc-iation of Broadcasters requested a new ron- tract and una•ble to negotiate, set up BMI as . ..._ new source of mu~oie oupply in competition with ASCAP. At present BMI is operating under the same sort of blanket licen\e a;, ASCAP but only \because it wa~ the mean:; by which a young new- comer could hope to get a foot hold in competition with the en- tt·enched power of an exisi!ing mo- nopoly.\ The BMI license. howen't', carries the printed :-tatement lhn t BMI is committed. to a per-u-;c ·Jon- tract and will offer such a colltl'act as soon as the establishmen,t t•f a competi.tive situation makes it pos- sible. Thi:; contract becomes effec- tive only when ASCAP signs a similar contract. Broadcasters will never ag·ain put themselves in the position of having to deal with a monopoly Mr. Skinner pointed out because they have created competition. The broadcasters in the fight to free themselves from the constant men- ace of the ASCAP monopoly and BMI in its effort:- to create an open competitive market are en- gaged in fighting for the freedom of radio which like freedom of :;peech and press is an essential part of the Amet·.ican way of life. he concluded. ·0· 480th Organ Recital To Feature Bach, Dvorak Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. Ditectot of Music, will play music by Bach by Russian composers and by Dv·omk at his organ recital this Sunday aftet·noon at 4 p. m. in the Memorial Chapel. Sunday's t·ecital will 'be Dr. Tidmarsh's 16th of thr year and his 480th since the stat·t of the series 16 yeats ago. The program: I. Fugue in D Major . . . . . . Bach Air fot· the G String .... Bach Finale from Trio Sona.ta in E Flat ................. Ba:::t. II. March of Victory ........... . . . . . . . Modeste Mourssorgsk~ Prelude in G Flat .......... . ......... Alexancer Set iabine Cradle Song ................ . .... Alexander Gretct:aninoff Flight of the Bumble Bee .... . . Nicolai Rim sky Kot sakoff Song of India .............. . ........... Ri·msky Korsakoff III. ,Symphony No. 5 \From the New World ... Anton Dvorak Largo Finale 0 Mountebanks Pr·esent German Movie Monday The :vfountebanl!s will pr:sent their fifth motion pi~tll .. P o! the season Monday c>VC::ling nt 8 ;-. m. in the Old Chapel when they show \Emil und der Detektive\ with sound in Get·man. English titles are shown with the picturP similar to the old silent movies. \Emil und der Detektive\ wa~ originated as ~ children's picture of Kaestner's famous .stat y of the same name, .but has proved amus- i ing to adults as well. 1 ~============~' SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper. One Step frorr State Streel To the Editor; Now that. this year's hazing. is a thing of the past, let us consider its merits. Two points have been advanced in its favor; it promotes cla.-::s unity, and freshmen hats serve to help the students to know others in their class. There is IHtle doubt that these hats do help the fveshmen to be- come acquain-ted with each othel', but they seem to have lost their purpo::;e when sophomores guard chapel doors to force freshmen to do that which was instiuted as a help to them. However, the merits of the hats probably outweigh their faults. On the other hand, some practises which I shall enumerate · have no apparent value whatso- ever, unless this class unity which they are supposed to produce can be cons·idered desirable. The freshmen are forbidden to walk on the gmss·. This is not con- sidered a hardship in many schools for no one is allowed to tramp over the grass. The beauty of our camr- pus would likely be augmented if the lawns were not plowed up by upperclassmen. Why not keep · everyone o·ff the grass? Attempts have been made to att- minister \Freshmen Haircuts\ for single infringements of the rules. A boy may wear his hat all year and forget it one day, only to have sophomores jump on him for dis- o·bedience. Freshmen have been dragged from their beds by playful sopho- mores to perform. On one occasion, they were forced to crawl on their hands and knees in the mud around the idol. Anyone who re- sisted was immediately subdued by a mass of sophomoress. Crawling in the mud, during a rain, with little more than pajamas for cloth- ing is not very conduc·ive to health. Such atrocities promote class unty. but a unity which is based on a common enemy rather than internal harmony. A more de~ir­ able unity would be one of all the classes a·s the student body of Union. Some will say that such practio;es are traditions which go bacl! to the beginning of the col- lege. I cannot deny this, but such a fact can hardly be offered as an argument for continuing their use. Model T Fords have been in use for a long time, but only those who cannot afford a new car use them. Industry is advancing so that new products are far in advance of those of several deead·es ago. With all this change around us, why should education be expected to continue in the same manner. In the days when these tradition:; were originated, college was not such a serious mattet· as it is to- day. Today, we mu.st pt·epare our- selvPs in college for competition in buslnel\s science, or :oome other field. Such outmoded practises as hazing have no place in the mod- ern educational institution. You may ask why such an un- desirable practise has existed so long. Its existence has largely been continued by a certain group of rathr inferior individuals who have no special abilities or accom- pli:ihments. These persons must have their egos inflated in some manner. so they browbeat defense- less freshmen, thinking they are important. 'Seldom are these ad- ventures attempted single handed, for reasons which are quite ap- parent. It is time that we in Union Gol• lege greeted our incoming fresh- men in an intelligent manner, rather than playing sheep to a senile tradition. Andrew L. Comrey '44 Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING - ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. To the Editor: The sports editot· of The Con- cordiensis wishes to apologize .to Art Lawrence for the enoneous statement appearing in the last is- Eue of the paper, which stated that he did not accompany the varsi·ty hockey team to West Point last weekend. Contrary to the uncon- firmed statement, Art was there wih his team and not AI Ciampa. The statment was based merely on rumor. J. D.P. Daredet,il Skiers Afraid of Camera At le3.st 90 per cent of the skiiers at Union College missed having their picture taken when · 0nly 20 tumed out for the pho- ~ographer Tuesday afternoon. 2rederic A. Wyatt. faculty advi- sor to the Outing Club, estimates that about 200 students can ski and have equipment. Of the 10 per cent that turned out, a good pat t of them came in ·OVercoats or without equip- ment. Skis were :;hared for the picture on the hill, several pos- ing with but one ski. Fot the picture of the skiiers in a se.rr:i- circle, those with but one ski were excluded as they would have \stuck out like a sore thumb.\ The proposition that Union skiiers were good sliiiers was ptoved when the repo1·ter noted that no one fell during the .half hour that the skiiets wet e on the hill. CALENDAR Tonight 8:15 p. m.-Varsity Basketball. Union vs Alfred. Alumni Gym. Varsity Hockey. Union vs. St. Lawrence at Canton, N. Y. Varsity Swimming. Un:on vs. R. P. I. at Troy 8:30 p. m.--Sir Thomas Beecham, Director of the London Phil- harmonic Orchestra. \Model n Music and Music Makers\. Memotial Chapel. Students ad- mitted tree of charge. Tomorrow 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly, Speaker Professor Vernon O'Rourke, \Is Our Party Sys- tem Successful?\ Memorial Chapel. Varsity Basketball Union vs. Hamilton at Clinton. Varsity Hockey - Union vs. Hamilton at Clinton Fencing-Union vs. Willi8!ms at Williamstown. Freshman Basrl:etball - Union vs. Albany Academy at Albany 8:30 p. m.-Union College Glee Club Concert and Dance. Hotel Ten Eyck, Albany, N. Y. Sunda~· 11 :CO a m.-Suncay Chapel Serv- ices. Preacher, Dean David E. Roberts. Union Theological Seminary, New York ·City 3:00 p. m.-Empit·e State Town Meeting of the Air. \Should the Democ1 acies of the World FeC!erate Therr.selves?\ Dr. Hatry E. Barnes, Dr. Vernon A. Nash. Old Chapel 4:00 p. m. --Organ Recital. Dr. Elmet· A. Tidmarsh. Memorial Chapel. Monda~· 9:30 a. m. 12 noon-- Placement Interviews. Mr. P. W. Boynton and Mr. W. E. Vogler, Socon:~-­ Vacuum Oil Co. Silliman Hall 7:30 ·P· m. - Band Reheatsal Gymnasium · 8:00 p. m.-Mountebanks Movie. Old Chapel Cla,ims Concordiensis Coverage Is Typical Of Student Support G. Dudley Holmes, '41, captain of the hockey team, criticized The Concordiensis for its poor cover- age of the hockey season and also laid the ·blame for the team's fail• m·e to attain spectacular success to l::tck of ice and competent play- ers, yestet·day in daily assembly. Hockey, Holmes ·<aid, was rarely played as an organized sport in high schools. Consequently Union has. had to draw from those few prep-school boys who have played before and those who are good natmal skaters. Unlike any other sp01 t a man to play hockey tas lirzt to :earn iww ::J s:rl:ace he said. \A masterpiece of understate- ment,\ was Holmes' description of The Concordiensis' statement that \Union is n0t an institution which lives and d.ics by the varying for- tunes of it:;; football team. SimHar- ly, Union does not follow its hockey team \Vith bated breath.\ Were the hockey team to cease its existence no one but the players themselves would be seriously affcted, he be- aeved. Though disclaiming belief in the forced enthu;:..1sm o:- pc,l rallies be- cause games are won a.nd loft by the players, Holmes asked for the gt eat psychological advantage of having the crowd with the team. The hockey team \ha:: had to be self-sufficient as far as support goes.\ Pointing to the team's record of winning one more than half the games played lad year and of hav- ing to play such teams as West Point, Colgate, Lehigh, Cornell, M.I.T., Holmes asked if other teams could do sa well. This week- end the hockey team plays Hamil- ton, a team which Union has yet to beat. He felt l'easonably sure that this year the team had a chance to win and would be the first Union team to ::-ing its Alma Mater at Clinton. ----<0--- Second Dean's List Shows Freshman Gain <Continued from Page 1) Harold M. MesEeng.er, Jr .. James H. Purdy, III, Robert 0. Rodgers. *David H. Rosenblum, ''Walter J. Schulz, *William A. Sharkey, Fred M. Siegel. Charles W. Snell, Gran- ger Tripp, Richard T. Vinick, Rich- atd K. Watanabe, Marvin N. Welt- m~n. W. Cyrus 'Wilson, Norman N. \Vruh~l. EnginPering George H. Ander- son, Burr L. Chase, Jr. John L. Dutcher, Harold H. Friedman, Richard F. Hoffman, *Francis J. Jankowski, Louis M. Loeb. Charles A. McHat·g, Jr., Gerald P. Peter- sen, Frank J. Salamone, *Michael T. Sep!Janen. Robert L. Shepherd, Richard A. Swift, Charles W. Thur<ton. BS in Chemistry --James S. Gil- more. *Irving Goodman, Paul E. Kummer. *Gerhard W. Leubner, Donald K Stevens. CLASS OF 1944 Bachelor of Arts ·- *Robert H. Earne\ Martin J. Caplan, Marvin E. Cramer, J 0seph A. Drago, Ron- GET YOUR HAIR CUT The Remodelled SANITARY BARBER SHOP Next to the Union Inn \ JAMES RESTAURANT 426 STATE STREET We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR Olnurnrni~usts NEWSWRITERS WANTEil The College News BUI'eau has ' issued a call for students who wish to become paid cOI·res~ pondents for news·papers. Stu- . dents fill six such journalistic ·positions, three of which wHl be open next year. Students inter- ested should consult Mr. Enzer in the New Bureau. Students interested in news~ photography also should con- · ter with: Mr. Enzer. College Places Picture Placs Places 18 in High and Prep Schools; Plans Give Away of 23 More A set of three J!)ictures of the col- lege impressed on wood have .been placed in prominent positions in 18 high or pt·eparatory sc'ho0ls by the att. director announced today. Fm- ther distiibution to 23 more scho0Is is planned in the spring. The placs are 9'h\ by 26\ and pic- ture a view of the library taken .from the Kappa Alpha Gate leading to Jackson's Gardens, a view of South College and Hale House with students \taking it easy\ on the ter- race wall and a shot of the chape: taken from one of the arches of Washbmn Hall. Alumni have ·been purchasing the placs for schools in their 1 egion or in their home town, Mr. Wyatt said. Generally they are hung in the col- lege guidance office, the principal's office, the senior class home room or in the school hall. They have been sent to high schools who have sent a number of students to Union in recent years. Schools to which they have al- ready been sent include: Evanston Township Hig'h School, Evanston, Ill., Garden City High School, Glov- ersville High School, Great Neck High School, Hastings-on-Hudson High School, Kingston High School, Manhasset High School, Middleburg High School, Newton High School, Nevvton, Mass., New Trier High High School, Winnetka, Ill., Oneida High School, Pawling School, Pel- ham Memorial Hig.h School, Poland High School, S~at borough School Scarsdale High School, Technical High School, Springfield, Mass, and Wilbur H. Lynch High School, Am- sterdam, N. Y. ald B. L. Epstein, Bruce G. Gillies, Thomas E. Hanigan, Jr., Clarence W. Hart, Robert J. Herman, Rob- ert P. Heywood, Garret R. Jessen, *Edward L. Johnson, *Albert M. Kronick, Nicholas Milano. Willard W. Parker, Seymour T. Pearlman. John R. Pellettier, Clair C. Smith, Robert K. Sohlberg, *Daniel Wit, Robert L. Zell. Bachelor of Science.- John L. Clowe, *Arthur A. DeLorenzo, Franklin S. McKeever, *Vincent S. Pa~~adino. Victor E. Peer, James E. Smith, II, *Clifford M. Tepper, Seymour Thiekman. Engineering-Herbert C. Brede- meier, Robert W. Breiling. *Clar- ence R. Droms, *Robert E. Ed- wards, John C. Gresham, Karl J. Klarman, *James W. Mavor, Jr., John M. Schamberger, Richard M. Tyndall, Judson Zimmer, Jr. BS in Chemistry - Stephen G. Clarke, Andrew L. Com.rey, Ed- ward J. Hennelly, *Edwin C. Smith., *Mal'shall C. Yovits. BS in Physics-Ralph W. Dres-1 sel, John R. LaPann. 'INTRAM'U RALS BASKETBALL SCHEDULE February 8-1:15, Delta Chi vs. Phi Gamma Delta; 2:15, South Col- lege vs. Chi Psi; 3:15, Kappa Nu vs. Neutrals; 4:15, Beta Th·eta Pi vs. S.jgma Phi. <All game·s played in afternoon.) February 10-7:30, Alpha Delta Phi v~. Phi Delta Theta; 8:30, Phi Sigma Kappa vs. Kappa Sigma; 9:30, Psi Upsilon vs. Delta UpsHon. February 11-7:30, Alpha Phi Delta vs. Delta Chi; 8:30, Neutrals vs. Phi Gamma Delta; 9:30, North College vs. Phi Sigma Delta. February 12-7:30, Ps·i Upsilon vs. Sigma Phi; 8:30, Kappa Nu vs. Chi Psi; 9:30, Kappa Alpha vs. Phi Delta 'Theta. February 14-7:30, Stcmth College vs. Delta Chi; 8:30, Sigma Chi vs. Alpha Delta Phi; 9:30, Delta Phi vs. Phi Sigma Kappa. February 15-1:15, Phi Sigma Delta vs. Theta Delta Chi; 2:15, Alpha Phi Delta vs. Neutrals; 3:15, North College vs. Beta Theta Pi; 4:15, Kappa Alpha vs. Phi Gamma Delta. (All games played in after- noon.) February 17-7:30, Sigma Chi vs. Chi Psi; 8:30, Kappa Nu vs. Delta Chi; 9:30, Delta Phi vs. Kappa Sigma. February 18-7:30, Delta UpsHon vs. Phi Sigma Delta; 8:30, Ne'l,l- tt·a-ls vs. Phi Delta Theta; 9:30, North College vs. Theta Delta Chi. ---01--- NEWMAN CLUB The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Union College Newman Club will be held Tuesday evening, February 11, at 7:30 o'clock in Sil- liman Hall. All members of the club are urged to attend this meet- ing to discuss the important plans concerning the admission of the Union club to the National Fed- eration of Newman Clubs. ---a--- CORRECTION Through an error in Tuesday's Concordiensis the name of W. Earl Goodrich, Jr., was left off the list of committee members of the Soph- omore Dance. 0--- SMITHERS INJURY SLIGHT Brad Smithers, '44, was injured yesterday while skiing at Alta- mont. The injury to the skier was reported by a member of Kappa Alpha not to be serious. Smithers was jumping when his s·ki caught in the snow, throwing him headlong. His face was lac- erated. Fellow Kapps rushed him to Ellis Hospital where he now is. ---o--- New Library Books <Continued from Page 2) deal of Bridget Eli a; ;:.>aroyan, My Name is Aram. Sharp, Stone of Chastity; Sim- mons, Dootoievski; Starrett, Books Alive; Stoll, Shakeopeare and other Masters·; Thurber, Fables for our Time; Werfel, Embezzled Heaven: Wescott, Pilgrim Hawk; Williams, In the Money; Crow, The Chinese are Like Thta: Edib; Inside India; Snow, Red Star over China: Cather, Sapphira and the Slave Girl; Cul- bertson, Contract Bridge; Gram- ling, A.P .. The Story of the News. 0---- Bellevue Quality Bakery 262li Broadway Phone 4-6248 BltEAD- ROLLS -PASTRY DELIVERIES AND SHOE REPAIR SERVICE FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF OUR CUSTOMERS GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Cor. Barrett Simply Phone 6-9419 CAFFERS COAL COKE FUEL OIL Call 4-3354 GAZETTE PRESS Printers Vol M 81 s~ lA day mat the clu< ing thir tin~ ity T seri enc frO·l aft< Ma: of tab and in , ing on enc cus 22. e:&p anc by con s the QUI to sue wa: Fa·l H. Ne: wil de I CUE ph; I fot du< thE fie: int SOl thE in~ cia fir ity pia vit of gi\ tor iot tio uri tiv ill! tio 1·a1 of ell Pr fa, \tl to m< cr 01' ne til se th tic to Si in d! tij w tt

vs. Nu Pi in Ita als vs. vs. vs. eu- ng, ed- ph- his ac- is. Glee Club Chess Team To Make Beats N.Y. Trip Colgate Z-51 1 Vol. LXIV., No. 31 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y .. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 194'1 PRICE FIVE CENTS ==================~~=====~==~=============== Mathematicians Broadcast First Science Progra.m Roundtable Series Presented Each Week Saturday Afternoon Within one half hour last Satur- day afternoon four Union C0llege mathematics professors compiled the merits of their field and con- clude that \matherr.atics is a train- ing most help.ful in learning to think clearly and to be able to dis- tinguish between truth and fals- ity ... \ I Customs and Practices Associated Lending Color Described As With Academic 1 to Ceremoniefi By ARMAND FEIGENBAUM Among ceremonies m0st fraught Music-Pink with custom, that of the gr.anting Commerce-Drab of academic degrees certainly oc- Physical Education- Sage green cupies a foremost position. This Public health---Salmon pink fact will be clearly demonstrated at Engineering-Orange the end of this month when Union Pharmacy~O!ive green will commemorate its one hundred Dentistry-Lilac forty 'Sixth anniversary with cere- Veterinary science-G 1 ·uy monies that will include the grant- Forestry-Russet ing of degrees. Library ~cience-Lemon Union, in fact, has been one of Pedagogy-Light blue the leaden; among American col- Orato,ry-Silvel' gray leges in maintaining these several Humanics-Crimson customs since the early days of the nation when it was among the The wearing of acadE'fnic !'')bel' first four Arnel'ican colleges to in- is another delicate point of formal stitute and insist upon t·he donning dresf. Custom decree\ that the of cap and gown and. the ~e of recipients of bachelor's degrees formal academic custom. wear a gown of black worsted with to designate the branch of knowl- edge in which the degree is con- ferred. Holders of honorary de- grees are entitled to wear a triple crow'E-foot of the appropriate color. The regulations concerning the third of the imnortant items of dre~s--academic caps-al·e equally as rigid as those governing the robes. ·but are subject to greater variation at different in<titutions. The Oxford, or mortarboard cap, worn fot· each degree is ef black cloth, except that the doctor's ca:p may be of velvet, with tassel of gold in whole or in part. Some in- stitutions in the United States de- cree, in addition to the caps be- ing worn at all times with the gown, that it be doffed only at the occasion of prayer. One of the most interesting of open or closed front and long- these customs is the dress it re- pointed sleeves, the Oxford style quires for the origin of which many being most popular in American explanations have been advanced colleges. The gown of the master but none fully accepted by au- is made with open front and is Usual practice in the type of thorities on academic garb. preferably silk, to distinguish it , clothing worn underneath the robe Mo,·t distinctive item in the for- more effectively from that of the I requires that gowns be worn over mal dress is the hood, which is a!- bachelor. It has long closed sleeves suits of dark material:, with the ways black, and which i:> lined with with squared ends falling well be- suit coat buttoned. Shu·ts are to the color or colors of the institu- low the knees and slit for the· arms be white or colored with collars near the elbow. white or not too highly colored, tion granting the degree. Where ther·e are two colors, a chevron or The gown worn by the doctor is and with neckties of plain color . band ,of the second is used. The alw of silk and with an open and pattern: Shoes are alm~st al- colors of these linings, and their front, but it has full ·bell-shaped ways prescnbed ~s black, wrth no Eyes of }ohnsons Turn Toward Aerial Endeavor Having abandoned his ancient automobile as an outmoded means of transportation, Dr. Burges Johnson, English Depart- ment head, noted wit and sage, is now interested in air travel. In .fact, the greater part of the Johnson family is looking sky- ward. According to recent reports, :v.Iiriam Jarvis Johnsoa, daugh- ter of the learned professor, has volunteered her services as an airplane polit t0 the British- American Ambulance Corps. Miss Johnson will fly for the British, just as soon as a plane can be obtained for her. The air- plane will be the result of a fund-raising campaign, to ob- tain airplane ambulance for the Royal Air Force. Miss Johnson is a graduate of Syracuse University, Class of 1936, and finished the CAA course only last month. She now has 70 solor hours to her credit and holds a private pilot's li- cense. A member of both the Ninety-Niners and the Women Flyers of America, Miss Johnson has ambitions to enter the busi- ness end of aviation, at the same time continuing her flying as a hobby. Sopho·mores Sign Dehey Orchestra For Class Da nee Chairman Sharpe Says New Eng.land Band Is Choice for March 15 Bill Dehey's orchestra has been signed t0 play for the Sop·homore Hop, it was announced last night by committeemen in charge of the affair. The band, which is com- posed of eleven men and vocalist Lorraine Lee, is one of the most popular in the New England States, as its past record indicates. Dehey has just recently appeared at the Williams Winter Carnival, and is re&ppearing at Williams in several weeks. Among other CQI- leges at which Dehey has played are Amherst, Wesleyan, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and Smith. He played at a New England Pres- ident's Birthday Ball, and furnish- ed the music for the Affiliated Ski Clubs Winter Carnival. Outstanding Orchestra The occasion was the fir·st in a series of seven Union Colkge Sci- ence Roundtables, to be bt·oadcast from Station W-GY on Saturday afternoon from 3 to 3:30 p. m. until March 22. Pr·esented by members of the college faculty, the round- tables will be climaxed on March 21 and 22 with a national symposium in which four of the country's lead- ing scientists will lead a discussion on the campus on the subject \Sci- ence Views Man.\ Part of this dis- cussion will be ,broadcast on March 22. Over 150 visiting scientists a1·e eX\pected to attend the symposium and pre par at ions are being made by the project committee to wel- come their colleagues. Saturday's roundtable •broadcast, the theme of which was; \Should our boys and gir Is really be induced to study algebra and geometry and such branches of mathematics?\ was discussed by Professors Orin J. Fa;,r·rE'll, Charles T. Male, Augustus H. Fox, and! Frederick J. Burkett. Next Saturday afternoon's program will feature members of the physics department who will informally dis· cuss t·he public usefulness of physics. significance, ar·e; sleeves. The front i~ faced with I other color permitted, Arts and letters-White velvet and on each sleeve· are three Academic dress is an interesting Theology-Scarlett bars of velve.t, black or the color 1 feature of the great events of col- Law-Purple of the hood trimming. leges and universities, and, with its Philo~ophy-Biue Some institutions decree that a very drab coloring, furnishes, a Science--Golden yellow double crow·~-foot in distinctive contemporary example of the long Fine arts-Brown colors be placed on each side of the development of higher education Medicine- -Green front of the gown, near the collar, in the western world. Glee Club Makes Trip to New York A newspaper clipping weil testi- fies to his popularity; \. , . Bill De- hey's Orchesha was chosen as the most outstanding ·band· from among the orchestras representing this section. . . . Because of their ver- satility and musical ability, the sponsors awarded this orchestra the· contract to .play for their pro- gram over the Yankee Network's nineteen stations. This well-organ- ized orchestra has long been a fav- orite at country clubs, hotels, and colleges in the East.\ Arts Discussed In typical rounC:table fashion, the fom· mathematics instructors con- ducted a progressive discussion as they ,covered the usefulness of their field, 'from insUI a:nce premiums to intricate scientific devices. Profes- sor Bur.kett's contention that \ma- thematics was also helpful in form- ing P •• backg·round for higher ap·pre- ciation of arts and music\ was af- firmed by his colleagues. \A fuller meaning to tonal qual- ity in music is reached,\ he ex- plained, \when we realize that the vibration of a single string or reed of a musical instrument does not give one tone alone but a composite ton.e, colored by overtones harmon- iously related to it. A little realiza- tion ·of these facts may help the ordina'l'Y listener to be more atten- tive to such matters, so that he may arrive at a greater satisfac- tion the next time he listens to a r·adio or a symphony program.\ As the group discussed the merits of mathematics and finally con- cluded it was a helpful training, Professor Farrell summed up those factors with: \l do not mean to imply,\ he said, \that mathematics is the oniy fac- tor responsible for sole achieve- ments; for in most cases, much credit should be given to physics, or chemistry, or m.echanics, or engi- neering, or any other field of scien- tific endeavor. But what I do as- sert is that in all these marvelous things of modern times, mathema- tics is one of the indispensable fllic- tors.\ ----o---- Augustus Fox Speaks To Sigma Xi Chapter The Union College chapter of Sigma Xi will hold its next meeting in the Physics· Laboratory on Fri- day evening at 8 o'clock at which time Professor Aug.ustu.:; H. Fox will speak on \The Evolution of the Stars.\ Stellar evolution, and in particu- lar the mechanism by which the stars derive the stupendous amounts of energy that they con- tinually radiate, has long been a major problem in astronomy. But only within the last three yeat·s has a satisfactory solution of this problem been proposed, a solution based on modern expel'iments deal- ing with the transmutation of the elements, and a solution that is of interest to the scientist. the phi- losopher, and the poet alike. ------------------~----------------- --------- Union Chessmen Defeat Colgate Churchill's Speech Forces Rebroadcast WGY listeners were rather surnrised to turn the dial on Su~day afternoon at 3:15 o'clock and hear Prime Minister Win- Eton Churchill. instead of the usual Empire State Town Meet- ing, broadcast from the Old Chapel. Things were further complicated, when the Town Meeting reached the ears of the audience at 10:30 p.m. and the voice of Dr. Dixon Rya·n Fox, instead of that of Dr. Vernon Nash, executive director of the New York Committee of Fed- eral Union, Inc. was heard. [Rehearsals Begin For Mountebanks Garnet T earn Takes Match by 3-1 Score In Collegiate Meet Rust to Guide Initial Work; Plan Road Tour For Spring Vacation Swinging into action on their The Union College Chess team 1 under the guidance of their ad- 1 visor, D1·. Charles Stubing of the 1 German department managed to 1 beat a strong group of chess play- 1 en; from Colgate College, 3-1, in, an intercollegiate chess match held i in Silliman Hall on Saturday eve- i ning. This is the first victory for ' the team which previou<='ly dropped i a match to the Albany State Col- lege for Teachers and tied for fifth place in the Ea::'tern Intercollegiate Chess League's invitation tourna- ment held in New York City during the Christmas recess period. The enigma was finally solved, when it was discovered that the airplane in which Dr. Nash was traveling to Schenectady was grounded, thus accounting for his absence. The reason for the switch in radio time was ex- plained by the fact that Prime Minister Church i I 1 spoke throughout the afternoon, there- :ore necessitating a change in the radio schedule. The entire program was recorded in the afternoon in ordE'r to be broad- cast at 10:30 over the WGY net- work. coming production, \The Inspector- ! General,\ the Mountebanks held their first regular z·ehearsal of the 1 play on Monday, in the theatre, · under the direction of Gordon A. i Rust, faculty adviser. t.:> the grou_p. 1 This rehearsal marks the first tn 1 a series of preliminary rehearsals, to be conducted by Mr. Rust, until Mr. James Russo, who is guest di- rector of this production, returns early in March. At that time, Mr. Ru::so will be joined by his wife, Camille Staneska, who is also as- suming directing chores for \The Inspector-General\ as well as play- ing the female lead. Before coming to Union the men from the Hamilton, N. Y., school defeated the Albany State College 1 for Teachers chess team on Friday !' evening 3-2 and then downed the R. P. I. team Saturday morning by the same score. In the Union 1 match there were only four boards 1 used but an additional match '-----------------· would not have altered the ultimate I decision. . Government Class Will The chess team 1s a non-tax sup- porte. d activity which was .darted I Visit Budget Hearing two years ago 'by Dr. Stubmg and w?ich has played ~aious matches 1 The State .Capitol in Albany will wtth the colleges m the eastern become a classroom for a group of part of the s.tate. When the team 1 15 Union College students when travels to some other school the they will visit the public hearing players do so at their own E'Xpense I on the 1941 State Budget the1e to- a?d thus most of the m:o:tches h:3;ve morrow, as part of their study of either been p~ayed at Ur;twn o: w~th \pressure groups\ in the legislative some group_ m .the capital distnct. process. Hundreds of persons with M. D. Smith 43, defeated Arthur \axes to grind\ will be there in an Coffin; Jame~ Pac.kard de~ea~ed attempt to advocate for more Charles Snell 43; Wrlbur Lakm 43, money for their \pet\ pr ejects. defeated Robert Brandt; and Fred . . . Seigle '43, defeated Donald Me- Accompamea 'bY thet; mstructor, Clusky to clinch the Union victory. Professor V_ernon A. 0 Rourke, the Charles Foster was the extra play- students will leave by bus from er for the Colgate boardmen. Payne Gate ~t 12:45 o'cl~ck tomor- row. The Unwn .group will be seat- ed in a reserved section and any other Union students interested in the ·hearing are invited to attend. ----o---- Fred Wyatt Goes to Chicago Frederic A. Wyatt, assistant sec- retary, began an extensive tour to Chicago and vicinity on February 9 to interview prospective Union students in the middle west. After con,;ulting Mr. Ru;t, the di- rectors have instituted many minor and major technique innovations in the directing and acting of this play. It is hoped. by the directorial staff that these changes will great- ly add to the smoothness of the production and that this produc- tion will add novelty to Gogel's classic. From this week on rehearsals will be .held in the Theatre at 7:30, devoting each night to a par- ticular act of the play. The first rehearsal was concerned with the First Act of \The Inspector-Gen- eral.\ The following rehearsals will be of the other two acts and the order of these is kept by Mr. Rust. The cctors in any of the three acts are asked to see Mr. Rust, about what night they are to re- port fot· rehearsal and to be at the theatre promptly, so as not to im- pede production. The sets for \The Inspector Gen- eral,\ designed by a special Moun- tebanks' committee, are not en- tirely completed, but will be fin- ished by the end of this week. CaFt- ing is all but completed, although there are a few minor roles to be cast yet. With the departure of William J. Lichte, '42, co-electrician, Abraham Bakal, '42, is left to make the lighting arrangements alone. Will Broadcast Over NBC \Red Network .. ; Gone for Three Days The Union College Glee Club will embark on its major tt'ip of the year this coming week-end when it leaves Friday morning for the !-iew York area. The club will sing five times in the three days it is on tour. Friday afternoon at one o'clock it will sing before the students of Jamaica High School. That evening the high .point of the trip will be reached at the annual assembly of the New York Alumni Association. The concert-dance will be held in the .ball room of the Hotel Ambas- sador in New York 'City. Student tickets are on sale at the bookstore for $1.50 per person. To 1 Broadilast Saturday morn:ng the club will broadcast over the NBC Red Net- work from 11 to 11; 15 a. m. WEAF in New York and WGY will carry the program. Ear·Iy this week the music which the club will sing had to be submitted to the network for chec:king. Sunday the choir will assist in the regular Sunday morning serv- ice of a Westchester church and at five in the afternoon they will sing at the First Presbyter.ian Church of Passaic, N. J. Members of the Glee Club re·port- ed that their Albany concert was the \best yet\ and that the whole group had been in unusually fine voice \never flat.\ The Vesper Service at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Troy was led by Ken- neth Macll:enzie, '41, co-student leader. Members of the club said that the church was filled to over- flowing and that the religious at- tendants were especially apprecia- tive of the concert. ----10---- Dr. Wold to Depart For Bases in Hawaii Professor Peter I. Wold, Union's \traveling .physics ·professor,\ left Washington, D. C., this week for Honolulu to conduct important re- search at the American naval base. The Sophomore Hop establishes a precedent here at Union, for it is the first informal dance open to the student body at large. Tickets for the Hop, which will be held March 15, will be on sale for about a dol- lar. The dance is the last college affair to be held 'before Prom. Tickets will be obtainable shortly from fraternity, dormitory, and neutral repr.esentatives, and will also be able to be ·procured at the bookstore. Invitations will be presented to class presidents, the head of the Student Council, and the chairman of the Junior Prom Committee. 0---- Russell Sage SCD To Hold Forums Union Chapter Sends Seventeen Co-leaders To Democracy Talks In continuation of the program decided upon by the Student Com- mittee for Democracy, a group of seventeen Union students will par- ticipate as co-leaders in a forum on \Our Unfolding Democracy,\ to be held on the Russell· Sage cam- pus, Thursday evening. As indicat- ed in the invitation sent to the Union chapter by Elizabeth Kohn- stamm, '42, representing the Rus- sell Sage SCD, the men will meet the Sage co-leaders at a get to- gether tea at 4:30 in the German Lounge of the French House. There plans for the forum and the presentation of the subject will be formulated. After this discussion the SCD groups will go to dinner in the va- rious houses on the Russell Sage campus. At 7:10 in the Little Thea- tre on the Russell Sage campus the group will attend an address on the original topic which will be pre- sented by Dr, Donald L. McMur- ray, Professor of History at the Troy institution. This address will be .the thirteenth in the series of similar talks on democracy to be presented to the student body at Russell Sage. Mr. Wyatt made a similar trip during 1938 by automobile. He will travel by train this year spealdng at a large number of high schools and preparatory schools on the benefits of a small college and courses offered at Union. Mr. Wyatt will then visit high schools in New York City. West- chester, and Long Island. He will also attend a college night in Gar- den Cit:v. The AHmny trip tomor·row is part of the first hand inspection tours of the state government undertalH'n by Professor O'Rourke's class in \State and Local Government in Practice.\ The hearing held last ~·ear on the same subject was a tremendous success for the government class. The Legislature was so crowded by the various pressure groups includ- ing the New York State Teachers association which was trying to prE'vent a cut in their budget that the session had to adjoin to the State Armory. According to scheduled, \The In- spector-General\ will open in Sche- nectady on March 21, play here March 22 and 24, and then the pro- duction will go on a road tour· dur- ing the Spring Vacation. The places that will be visited are not as yet decided upon. The second Union professor to be called to national service, Pro- fessor Wold left the campus No- vember 15 to serve as a civilian ex- pert in carrying on a specia.l re- search in the Bureau of Ordnance of the United States Navy. The temporary appointments for the administrative work of the physics Department, made after Professor Wold's leave of absence, will remain in effect. Dr. Rojansky will continue as the acting head of the Union College physics depart- ment. Among the, men who will take part in the Thursday evening events in the Troy college are: Clarence McCain '41, Dickinson Griffith '41, Roger Marshall '41, Robert Hayner '43, Alexander Arony '42, Granger Tripp '43, John Ruskowski '41, Paul Becker '41 William Birdsall '42, Laska; Schwartz '41, Armand Feigenbaum '42, and Richard Balch '41. The re- mainder of the seventeen men who will act as co-leaders has not as yet been announced. The scenery for the production is being l'o set that it may prove feasible to move the settings when the play goes no tour in March.

Pag-e Two fill !\lll:ll 1877 \.I C'ausa Paw l'aro/c .lssai' \'Mo--e-n~ b,.-e-r-o\\f -ct-o-h-e-, 7 \-so-. 0-C-la--,t_e_u~--,C-ol,.,le-·~-,,-u te l 'rt;:,.S a llll db t1 i utit Ll-1;- Ur UHJ- Cut· ll'g'iate D1ge::>~. TheOffi=.c.i'ia:;.:l:..:I,:-w 7 \\'',-:cp\\'a.:::p-cet=-· -,u 7 f--ct\h_e_s 7 tt\'ll 7 k·-.,.,:-:,tc-,-:-ut' L'lllou Lullt-gt_•. l 1 uLlbhtli -Tlll·;-. day and Pritlays throughout tht.-' colle~e :yL·ar. Editorial Uooms, Sillim~ lEtTl-:-L'ntult- L~lege-L'~Uill~uS.- Tel~)i~ Schenectady, -1-0l:..l:J. Pnblien.tion OiNCe;-Tht! -Gaz~l~-lii~~~..;:f4~f~rt.~--::;~~~~~:ut:~·.t~td,y, ).:~Y~ Tdepho11e 4·41-ll Sul:Jst:riptiun IH'Ice lt~ive l.'t.'tltl:5 a ~..u;,ty; $:J.llll a )eal , dellvel-t-:tl-U7tY,\ lit rt.- ln the Umteu State•. Senior Boa.rd James E. Twining, Jr ............................... Editor-in-Chief Chi p..,: Ludgl'-4·1.i~~~7 Lasl•ar Schwartz .............•... , ......•....... Business Manager Kapp.t :\u Ilutbl:'-4-\;:::.n Robert S. Schulberg .............................. Associate Editor l'hi· Sigma lldLt lluuH:- li·U7li;, Paul W. Becker ................................... Associate Editor John D. Phillips ..................................... Sports Editor Ptli L·I,:.--ilon Ilull~t._·-·.t-::-711) John P. Lewis ..................................... Editor-at-Large #\l:ddlt .. ~lllioll, .:\o!tll C.lllt_·~t· t;·D~It ._; .J. Donald Haigh .............................. Circulation l\lanager l'lli lluL.t Tilda lloU--L· l-1;!11 ·------------ ------·-·- ~-· REPRESENTEe FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y, CHICAGO • BOSTON • Los ANGELES ' SA!i FRANCISCO ------------------~ -· Junior Board Armand Feigenbaum Solomon Blechman Samuel Portnoy -----------------·----··· Issue Editor ....................................... Samuel Portnoy =========-~-=~,-~-~=-~----~-=~== Tuesday, F~bruary 11, 1941 LO, POOR EDITOR Consider the editor! A college footba1l team opens its sea- son with a well em·ned victory. The coach getteth the con- gratulations of all the populace. The editot· \n-iteth a stid; and a half and telleth the multitude of the fine performa-nce of the team and predicteth a season of victol'ies. Yea, his predictions cometh true to the letter. And the coach sendeth a letter of thanks to the editor for his efforts in behalf of the team. Behold, the season changeth and the editm· v-:racketh his brain to praise the teams of the season. He printeth in his papet· of the possibilities of a string of baseball victories. Yea, he printeth a peach of a prediction. Like unto the foot- ball season he compares the season at hand. And the stars are praised unto the skiis fot· their efforts. The season closeth and the predictions of the editor are not hom out and the populace look with scorn upon the efforts of the paper. And the yem· c·hangeth and again the football team takes the field with a record of wondrous doings behind it. The editor again \Hiteth a stick, yea, a column solid, of the achievements of the team and this time he warneth the multitude of the danger of building great hopes and he tell- eth of the efforts of the team both in victory and defeat. F1owe1-y and long is the first \'ictory notice which the editor printeth. Yea, his paper printeth pictures taken on fields afar as the victories continue. And, lo, the team loseth a g-ame and still the editor praiseth the team and printeth pic- tut·es taken at g-reat l'isk to the cameraman. The season closeth and the record does not hold a candle to the preceed- ing one and yet the editor pmiseth the valiant team and the coach getteth the sympathies of the crowd and yet he findeth time to writeth the editor a note of thanks fm· the support of the paper. Again the season changeth and the blades striketh the ice finn and hard. The edit,,,r announceth and herald the coming of the winter season. He predicteth the success of the puck- sters and telleth of the premie1· victory after printing pic- tures of the captain and stars in his paper. Before man,y moons the team meeteth its second advet·sary and sticks do fly and the crowd doth rendet· many a cheel', but the fates are ag-ainst a second victory and the score readeth nothing all. The editor printeth a stick and a half and showeth a picture of the captain making a brilliant save. All records must fall and soon the boys dropeth theit· first. Verily the editot· praiseth the work of the team and throw- eth himself on the story of the saves of the g-oalie. And lo, time waiteth for no man and another sports week passeth. In his eff01ts to do justice unto the multitude the editor fill- eth his page with the contests of the ·weel< passed. The basketball team gets its bit, the swimmers get their bit and even the older l'eaders are given space. And the editot· for- getteth to note the coming contest of the puck-chasers and the contest is a worthy one against a worthy opponent. And behold, the team beateth the worthiest of opponents and again the editor doth err. He forg-etteth to check a para- graph of type and the error is read by all the multitude. And all that are connected with the team jumpeth on the editor with exceeding great jumps. And they complain loud and long of the error and forgetteth the past efforts of the editor and 111 place of thanks he g-etteth nothing but scorn and is dispised by the populace. Yea, even from the pulpit s he scorned! THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1941 1 Thomas Beecham Philomatheans Discusses Modern Debate Rutge,rs Music,. Composers Plans Discussed for Asserts That Serious Music Being Written Now Lacks Originality Speaking before a large a.udienre of students and guests of the col- lege, who gathPred in thr Memorial Ohapel on F1·iclay evening. Sir Thomas Beecham well known con- ductor of the London Philharmonic ot·chest1·a and leading musical ·critic of Great B1·Hain de::!lared that prac- tically all composers of serious mu- sic alivP today ate on the wrong track \They a1·e writing,\ he said. \feeble imitations of Bet·lioz and Strauss. As for anything new. I listen and hear nothing.'' Sir Thomas, former conductor-in- rhief of the British Bmadcasting Cot p. spoke on \Modern Music and Its Makers\ undPt the auspices of a committee for Chinese war relief. After· he concludes his lecture tour he will assume various guest con- ductor positions with the leading symphony orchestras in this coun- try. Continuing in this same vain the English ba1·onet offered to play the works of any modern eomposet who would come to him with six bars of original music. This lack of original work is no', a catas- trophe he continued to ex,plain for we have 'been thmugh these periods before. Em·ope whic.h produce,; nineteen twentieths o.f the worlds art at the pres~nt time is un.pro- ductive but there is great hope for the future. Be-rlioz Praised ThP artist pointed out that in a sense there is no such element as modern music, mther there is mu- sic of the day. We must compare this music with all the other music we have heard .befm·e when we pass judgment. In the nineteenth centmy t!-:c lec- turer declared, a new conception of music arose which, 'although It cnuld not be termed modern did bting a nPw conrE'ptiun of how to use the material at the disposal of the composer. This event Sir Thomas credited to Hector Ber- lioz. His \Symphonic Fantastique\ h£' said, \contains the 'Enfant ter- rible' of all music written sinN' and nothing has 'been added to it. Evetything is to be found in that work. The speaker outlined the evolving of Richard Wagner as a great com- pospt·. He explained ·that \\'agnc1 did not become a tt uly masterful 1 compospt· until hf.' ehangPtl to using twenty o1· thirty motifs of an epi- grammatic st~ le instPad of his earlier methods. Richard Strauss also i~ anothet composer whose best work ha~ been dun<' using thl' motif st~·le. There ts 'a minimum of beauty in Stl auss but his work if< effectin• as long as ~ ou havP an orehestra and conductor who wish to play brilliant t·hetorics. \Om problem,\ he concludPd. \is to find wha.t shape the next school of mu- sic will take.'' Extempora-neous Debate in Early April A discussion of the lend-lease bHI which i,; being debated in Congress at the present time was held at the meeting of the Philomathean Soci- ety held yesterday evening. Next week there will 'be a round-table debate on the question \Is indoc- trination of Democ-racy necessary and desirable in our educational system?\ The Pbilomatheans will meet the Rutgers debater,; on Thursday in New Brunswick, N. J. on the sub- ject \Should the Nations of the Westetn Hemisphere form an alli- ance or union to .protect themselves it·om foreign aggression?\ Boyd Golder, '41, and Lloyd Schloop, '41, will represent Union in this round- ta-ble debate. HP>hate Prize Discussed Plans were discussed for a, change in the date of the annual Goodrich-Duane extem•poraneous prize debate which usually takes place during ·Commencement week- end. It is expected that this debate will take place soon after the sp1 ing recess. This ,prize debate is open to all students of the college. All who are interested in entering this contest ·are urged to attend the weekly meetings of the Philoma- thean Society to ·a,cquaint them- selves with the techniques of t·ound- ta'ble debating. Last year a pzecedent was estab- lished when the debate prize was competed for in the informal round- table style rather than the custom- ary formal p1ocedure. Elimination debates will be •held to determine the contestants in the final competition. The day before the debate the general subject for discussion will be posted, and tht·ee hom s before the debate the follow- ing day the specific topic will be announced. Professor George Kellogg Grateful for Broadcast Stars of stage, set een, and radio, including Bette Davis, Jack Benn~· and Bob Hope, the \Hardy Family:\ Mickey Roo- ney, Lewis Stone, etc., Madeline Carroll, Ronald Colman, Bob Crosby, and many others, ap- peared in a spPcial 90 minute pt·ogram over station WGY Sat- utday night at 11:15 in a pru- ~ram to mise funds lot the GrePk War Relief it was an- nounc<>d at thP Schenectady headquartet~. 116 State Street. Professor George Dwight Kel- lo~g. chairman of the Schenec- tady drive, expressed the grati- tude of •his committee to Station WGY and to Samuel Goldwyn, chairman of the permanent charities committee for the mo- tion picture industry, which is ::1:aking possible this broadcast. --------- -~~~- ----'-================= I~ ___ M_E_L_A __ N_G_E_R __ IE_· __ ~I The next six )llays coming to you plenty of time to scrape to- Schenectady are: \Philadelphia gether the green-back, and perhaps StOI'y,\ with Katherine Hephm·n; to arrange it so that the various \Time of Your Life,\ by Saroyan; groups of fmternity men wHI get a \Man Who Came to Dinner,\ with section of the block, just a:s they Monty Woolley; \Pygmalion with do at the football and baolietball Ruth Chatterton: \The Little games. H might even ·be so ar- Foxes,\ and \Life With Father·,\ by mnged that the ]'lrice of the tick- Vachel Lindmy. ets could be put on the house bills, Chances are very good that though that is an arrangement Union students will be ,able to get which will have to be handled by a special rate in a college block of the various fraternities. ;;eats for each performance, at a . fiat rate of five dollars .for all six Here is a c·hance .for Union stu- of the shows. Such a ridiculously dents to see the outstanding plays low price is only possible if thet·e of the past couple of seasons at a is enough student response. If less very reasonacble rate. To date, thlr- than a hundred students are inter- ty men ha.ve vouchsafe·d interest ested, the tariff will be slightly in the whole arrangement to the higher. Arrangements can be made extent of placing their names in w that you can use your Bix ad- the Concordy box. Why don't you try it, too. mis~ions in any way you care to, that is, you can go to three of the Another great theatrical event ::>haws taking a date, or go alone occurs in Schenectady this coming to all Eix, or s-ome other combina- weekend. The Junior League Fol- tion. lies will be presented on Friday At least, that is the way the sit- and Saturday nights, with ol'iginal uation shapes up at present, sub- songs and dances, and forty- ject to all sorts of changes, depend- count 'em--f-orty of Schenectady's ing on student re~.ponse and the co- lovelieEt Junior Leaguers. The show operation of the· various companies will be a delight to the eye as well which will bri·ng shows to town. :rn as to the ear, and some of the col- any event, all those who want to lege boys are contributing their get such a special ticket will sig- taleHts as song and dance men. It's nify by putting a slip with their all in fun, and all the girls' mothers name into the Concordy box in Sil- will love you for coming. Maybe liman Hall. When an adequate list the girls will too, and that's a of students is attained, it will be threat. You'll never forgive yourself taken to the manager, a•nd the va- if you don't see it. It's unbelievable. rious details will be announced. We watched a rehearsal for two These details will be published in hours, and it was amazing. Very the Concordy, and if there al'e still amazing. enough students to make the proj- Don Cossack tonight, a local at- ect worth-while for the theatre tempt Friday and Saturday, and manager, tickets wil1 be pt·inted, six plays in the offing. It's going money will be collected, and Union to be a busy time. There will also will go to the theatre. be an art exhibit in the Mounte- Ail names must be submitted be- banks in a couple of weeks, but fore the first of March, allowing more about that, later. W. E. M. Coburn Deplores Acting Training Basing his comments upon exper- ience gained in the past several years at the Mohawk Drama Fes- tival, Charles Coburn charged last week in au interview in Hollywood that the stage had not produced a single outstanding star, male or fe- male, since 1926. The db-ector of the outstanding summer feature on the campus of Union said that the movies have made only a few gt eat actors and that they, for the most part have been gt eat personalities rather than gt·eat performers. \Unless something is done to give young actors proper professional training.\ Coburn pointed out, \I PI edict that in another 15 years the stage will die-and along with it will go the films \ He said that universities, high schools. and eol- leges throughout the land are spending millions of dollars year!~ for magnificent theatrps and equip- ment. Amateur TNtChPI's \And what happeng?\ he asked. \We find amateurs teaching ama- teurs how to .be amateurs. Now it hopes be's raised an argument. He figures that's his only chance of getting started on a campaign to save the theater from extinction. While talking about these mat- ters with which he is so much con- cerned, Cobmn was clad in an old- fashioned bathing suit and was standing on what R. K. 0. meant for a Coney Island police station. It seemed a. little incongruous to be talking about such topics, but then he was earning :his living in the profession he knows best. He was starring with Jean Arthur aud Robert Cummings in the comedy, \The De·vil and Miss Jones.\ Direc- to!' Sam Wood was in charge and all hands were in an argument with the cop, Regis Toomey, about Co- burn's 1 ight to parace the board- walk in a bathing suit. Stai-tPd from Bottom The Corn Is Green I may be fun for the amateurs on the stage to scamper -at·ound behind the footlights, with an amateur in the person of a lady f.tom the Eng- ·-------------------------------' !ish department as director, but its tough on the audiences. That kind of thing was easy for Coburn. who began peddling pro- grams in a Savannah, Georgia, the- ater when be was twelve; became the house manager when be was seventeen: then turned to acting and kept it up all ·his life. He !mows his job thoroughly, a knowl- edge developed by years of troup- ing throughout the country, and additional years of acting in the \Big Time\. In fact, one o-f Co- burn's chief wot ries seems to -be that there are no young people trodding his path, and that the path itself is almost oblitezated. To. change this situation of ama- teurs teaching amateurs to 'be am- 'l.teun\ has been the chief ·purpose of C•Jburn in the Mohawk Dran:a Festival, which he feels is one of the few schools of the type that ran art11aLy 8id fl budding actor along the r·ight t·oad, if thf' pl'oper abilities ate present to build U]Jon. I Ain't Ht>p to That Stt>p and th<' HPl'man ~t·ew. ·I'ommy Line- Poor Mr. Chisolm Fred Astaire. han's performance on piano ou With extremely modified tapture both ~ides is great Good ~tuff fnr Wt• g I \\t tht• 1 .-t 111 n of :>.11 .• \staire th;sp who ltkt• ttei 1 m u.;il' f 1 ee to tbP fi<>ld of platter prPssing from commetce. :\<eitlwr tht• \>ngs _tltP voice, nor, Hal Kt>mp M<'morial Alhum. A thP bnl'f btt of tPI·~st~hOiing on the· fin<' tribul<' bv Columbia to a ftrst stele warrant tt. . · . man . _ , who has done a lot rn t·hP popular Tlw Moon F«>ll m tltf' Rt\'Pr and :dance music field All All or :'i thi t All C B . . songs are , . ' o ng a . · ount a~le 'good examples of his style and are: and hts Orchestra. Just commet·c1al \Got a DatE' With an Angel\ \Din- pop tunes, and hardly worthy of ner for One Please James\ \Y . • the Basie band. Moon is from the the Top\ \Lullab' f B.' d ou ;.; show \It I\ o I .. • Y 0 'oa wa;y , .• appens n ce. \I've Got You Under My Skin\ Frt>llPSI and H~rd to GPt·-Benny \The Gentleman Obviously Doesn't G?odman and h1s Orchestra. We Believe in Love .. \Where 0 . Wb .. ~ttl! pr~:.er the Shaw recording of and \Therp's a 'small Hote\\ en ' Frenes1 to any other one. includ- · ing this one, that we have heard. TimP On My Hanes and I'm Pull- All those violins! ing Through-Billie Holiday. Now, \I would say that 98 per cent of the stage shows p10duced in tl~is ~ountry todAy Are -perfonr~d or. s2hool and univet sity stages. The audiences who go to these shows cannot get interest£>d in the charac- ters. All they can say is 'Loolt how cute Maggie Jones is in her wig,' or 'My, doesn't Joe Doakes look fine in Whiskers.' • \What I can't understand is the fact that a. great university wl1l go to any length to obtain able scien- tists in its medical school and fine scholars for its law school, and will casually toss its dr a rna courses to the English department, or perhaps to the professor of public speaking. Movit>s Can't Teach Your Love Has Fadpd and Moon don't ovetlook Billie. Especially Honmnet>. Johnny Hodges and his since sr.e·s gone and made one of \With the repertory companies Orchestra. Being an Ellington unit. bet best recordings,. i':' some time. all gone and the stage confined this naturally i\ something not to and I .. do me?-n Ttme On My only to Broadway, there is no place be overloo]{ed. And it's a good Hands ·. If y~u ve never .heard her for youngsters to learn acting, ex- thing we didn't as both sides are before, JUSt ~1sten to thts one-at cept in school. On Broadway a gems. If that Hodges alto sax on I least thr·pe trmes-and then :1- ou'll sho.w has to be a smash hit to earn thP first side doesn't thrill you, see what we mean. profits; producers can't tal{e the nothing will. I Islf'. of Capri and The Girl witb time to coach newcomers. The mov- The S~ars Remain and A Ft>llow i !hP I.I_ght BhtP ~air--Adrian •Roll- ies can't teach them, either, be- and a Grri--Buddy Clat k. \Sta.rs\ is , m1 Trw. In glossmg over the com- cause the process in Hollywood one of the best pop tunes we've i mon .. place. we come across these takes too long. heard in some time, and Buddy's; two undistinguished bits. For three \That leaves the schools as the vocalizing is all you could want. 1 reasons not to like it, the first side only places where would-be actors The plattermate is a rhymer's treat. i is played as a fox trot, a rhumba, can hope to learn their profession. WhosP Themp Song? -- Richard and a conga. Today it is a rorlorn hope. Unless Himber an~ his Orchestra. On Ye.s, My Darling Daughter and we do get real talent in the colleges these two srdes, Mr. H. ·herewith These Things You Left Me-Benny to teach drama, it won't even be a presents the theme songs of seven Goodman and his orchestra. The hope tomorrow.\ of our better known ot·chestras .. obverse is now one of the more This kind of talk is liable to Nove~ty stuff which might be I popular tunes today. Despite its make a lot of folks sore in scholas· amu~m7 to so.me. . . , I ?ated title the reverse is better and tic circles, but that's the least ·of Ships BoogrP Woogre and Chips , rs, ~>.s a ballad of that ty-pe, almost the 62-year-old Coburn's worries. ------0---- Letters to the Editor To the Edi::or: Pools of water on the gymnasium basketball floor are still plaguing our team and the teams that play here as Union's guests. The condi- tion affects both teams and de- tracts hom the game. It is possible that a player slipping in a pool might be seriously injured. Respon- sibility for the players' welfare and a well-equipped gym suggests that it is time to eliminate ·this trouble. After long delay the administration has acted to eliminate the water hazaJ d on Alexander Field. The next dessication project should be the basketball floor. Canst thou beat it? Bl·~es--Woo~y J:Ierman's Four' as g·ood as \These Foolish Things\ I He defies auy school to produce a I Chtps .. C!ar~net, p~ano, bass. drums 1 or \Thani(S for the Memory.\ I single great actor turned out by it comprtse thts outfrt extracted from 1 S. G. in the last decade and a half. He Since the water is believed to be condensation of the humidity in the gym atmosphere, there is no prob- lem of roof le'l.kage. Instead the water must be intercepted in its fall from the slwlight. The solution is up to the huild:ing crew. Our sole suggestion is to stretch a dou- ble thickness of cheese cloth the entire length and width of the sl{y- light. Light from above would be little affected and the falling water would be absorbed by the cloth. Possible rotting of the cheesecloth might necessitate replacement in a year, but the material is cheap in regard to the nuisance rectified. Clarence H. McCarn = Ba A1 Le the theil wen1 nettc but anot Harr poin chic I total \Wh hoo~; Sp son Alfrc Friel in tl to 4 beet cour half 15 a latte bask on b TI:J and bine' as it ty-or gam as e winr Jake on p of tl who! ner Dart their Ur gam' chic! half1 befo; put mair drop give time the with befoJ minl five the COffi] two ket I Tu hot from have a bi· Unio only toug team Tu ed t agai1 poin1 new enou the first team up Ham four give Tb 19 t< playi all sE to a: while tion lead. fougl weze pe1·ic sha1·1 Smlt AI Smit poinl gin Willi heels Unio Carn Jako Rath Mace Turc Sant' Wy~c To· Ham Willi F

to- t a ar- ck- ·by a in ow eir a elf wo at- te- of to ld- to in th ·d- ·o- as be a- se of er m e- le ol e. a n THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1941 Ba·sketball and Hockey Teams Lose R. P. t Skiers Win At Hamilton; Alfred Defeats Five Invitation Meet; Hoopsters Scoring Spree Net Them 95 Points.; Dutchmen Second Hamilton Hockey Jinx Celebrates 21 Birthday The R.P r. Eki team totaled 198 . 3 Led by Co-Captain AI Turchick, ------ points this past \\:eekend to take the varsity ba:;ketball team found Watt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 first place over Union and Hamilton their eye this .past weekend and Carney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 and win the annual Union College went on a scoring rampage that Young, If . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Invitation Ski Meet held at North netted them 95 points in two games, Whitney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o Creek on Saturday and Sunday. but they were still unable to win· Smith, c . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Union was second, followed by another ·!Jail game as Alfred and Jannone, rg . . . . . . . . . . 2 HamHton, to win the honor of be- Hamilton combined to :;core 118 Henry, Ig . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 ing the only Union team to win an points and win a game apiece. Tur- _ athletic contest from Hamilton this 0 0 0 0 1 5 0 0 2 20 0 4 2 10 - - chick led the way all weeliend, Totals .............. 25 past weekend .. The Dutchmen masE- 6 56 ~.~~f~e~\ 3~ar~~-~~~t ;~;o~~~ t~~ * * * ~l~o~6~~i~~i~t:d t~60~ose out Ham- hoops for 23 in two games. Alfred G Only two of the four scheduled F p Sparked by Captain \Bo\ John- Humphrey, rf . . . . . . . . 4 events were run off, the cross coun- 1 9 son a·nd Ellie Hauth, lanky center, Johnson, If . . . . . . . . . . . 6 try and jumping events being can- 4 16 Alfred outlasted. the Dutchmen on Hauth, c . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 celled due to bad weather. The 1 15 Friday night in a high scoring duel Gamble, rg . . . . . . . . . . . 1 downhill race and slalom were in the Alumni Gymnasium by a 62 Rhodes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 run off on Saturday with R.P.I. to 47 ocore. Johnson, one of the Trigilio, lg . . . . . . . . . . . 5 winning :both. Union finished Eec- 3 5 0 4 1 11 Freshman Quintet Loses to Albar:.y The freshman basketball team received its share of bad luck on Saturday night as it lost to the Al- bany Academy quintet 30 to 20, on the Academy court. A fiat tire kept half of the team from arriving at the Academy until halftime with t'he score 21 to 5 against the year- lings. With the regulars playing in the second half, the freshman fought to close the gap but the Academy's lead was too large. Union scored 15 points to their op- ponents' 9 in the second period. Warren Harvey and Johnny Clowe led the fr,eshmen with 10 and 8 points each, whi.Je Peck was high for the Academy club with 9. The freshmen will finish their :;eason on Saturday night when they meet the R.P.I. cubs in a preliminary game at Troy. Lineup: Swimmers Face Powerful Squad After 60-15 Loss to Page Three Trinity R. P.l. The varsity swimming team left 1 !~--- -- -- -· ·-- ·-· · - · · ·-- for Tr_inity College this _morning events, and Ed Keers, Art LaRoche with high hopes of salvagmg their 1 and Bob Reed in the sprint:;. Burt first victory in three starts. Coacf1, Payne will enter the diving while Wheatley was far f1·om optimistic Hal Hendrick~on will swim in the in practice ye~terda}' afternoon and brea,;tstroke. Sophomores. Bill Wil- the tenor of his remark::; '\\\ere that kin and Len Benjamin will al~o see his small squad wuuld have to action in the sprilits and distance show val!t improvement overnight event::>. Bub Molloy has also joined to nose out the Connecticut team. the swimming team and will be So far this :;eason the Trinity used to fill in in the events in which s·wimmers are undefeated and have Wheatley i::; shorthanded. shown a lot of power in beating Lose to R. P. I. M.I.T., 44 to 31, ::'wamping Bo~ton On!~· one firBt place was. snatch- University and la.~t weekend de- ed in the meet with R. P. I. Gordon feating R.P.I. which the night be- Murphy won the 440, swimming fore gave W·heatley's· boys a bad the qua1·ter of a mile in 5:42, only beating. Led by Captain Ed Con- .6 of a second slower than the Union way and sophomore Dave Tyler, 1 recot·d held by R. S. Oppenheim, who holds sevet·al world records, '42. Coach Wheatley looks for Mur- Trinity appears headed for a ban- phy to shatter the Union record beet players seen on the Union Cohen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 ond and Hamilton third in the 0 2 court this yea1·, and Hauth, scored - downhill while the positions were - - half of their team's points, netting Totals .............. 26 reversed in the slalom. The best 15 and 16 pointo, respectively. The Union G time for the one mile downhill race 10 62 F p latter was unstoppable under· the Santee, rg . . . . . . . . . . . 3 wa:o 1:37 and for the three quarter 2 8 basket while Johnson was adept Rathlev . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 mile slalom, 2:56. Union (20) Meisel, rf ........... . Kayne .............. . Hill, If .............. . Smolka ............. . Harvey, c .......... . G 0 0 0 0 3 0 4 0 0 0 F 1 0 0 0 4 1 0 0 0 0 nc1· season. Wheatley paid tribute this afternoon. If he failed to break to Ty.Jer'·s ability in the water and the mar·k, Wheatley felt confident P stated he should win those events that he would ·break it against 1 he chose.s to swim in. Tyler is a Rochester thi~ Saturday. The R.P.I. 0 freestyler with plenty of speed to team trimmed 'Union 60-15 Friday 0 burn while Conway's specia!Hy is night. Beside,; .Murphy the only 0 the backstroke and medley relay. other· Union ::;wimmer who gained 10 Captain Murphy's only comment distinction was William Wilkin, 1 was that Tyler would find it rough who tied :for second in the fifty 8 going if he choose to swim in the yard sprint. 0 0 on both layups and set shot;,. Turchick, lg . . . . . . . . . 6 0 12 The Saxons ruggedness and size, Wysocki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 and Union's aggressiveness com- Macomber, c . . . . . . . . . 3 bined to make the game as rough Jakobowski, If . . . . . . . 2 as it was fast and wide open. Thir- Carnwright . . . . . . . . . . 5 ty-one fouls oerved to slow the - 1 3 1 2 - 1 9 5 12 - game down a bit in spots, as well Totals .............. 19 9 47 as end the Dutchmen's chances of winning in the clm:ing minutes as Jakobowski and Turchick went out on personals. Union showed plenty of fight and spirit throughout the whole· game, .and kept Alfred, win- ner over Rochester and loser to Dartmouth by a close margin, on their toes to the final gun. Union Rallies Union took the lead early in the game, 11 to 7, on baskets by Tur- chick and Jakobowski and held it halfway through the first ·period before Alfred Etaged a drive that put them in the lead for the re- mainder of the game. Ellie Houth dropped in 13 points in a row to give Alfred a 31 to 18 lead at half- time. Turchick led his team out in the Eecond half and combined with Carnright to tally 11 points before the second period was two minutes old to close Alfred's. lead to five points. A long timeout gave the Saxons time to regain their composure and from there in th·e two teams traded ·basket for bas- ket to the· final gun. Turchick and C'arnright were hot all· night, dropping the ball in from all angles. The story might have been different in t'he end, with a bit more luck. Time after time Union Ehots rolled around the hoop, only to drop out, just part of the tough luck that has dogged the team all season. * * Hockey With Hamilton The Hamilton College hockey team continues its undefeated rec- ord against Union as the age old jinx celebrated its 21ot birthday on Saturday, and the Continentals celebrated an 8 to 1 victory as they continue their sweep of athletic events against the Dutchmen this year. Going into the second period of what started as an even game, with the score at 2 to 1 in their favor, Hamilton turned on the heat and reached their peak for the sea- son as they rang up six goals in the second and third markers. Holmes Hul't The turning point in the game came when Captain Holmes struck hi~ head on the iron frame of the Union cage while defending the goal during a melee in front of it. With a doctor's approval, and after a brief rest, he continued to play, and according to Coach Lawrence \turned in one of his best games.\ Hamilton took advantage of the brief rest and Holmes' shaken con- dition and resumed play with re- newed spirit and showed the Dutchmen a brand of hockey they had not seen all ~eason. The Dutch- men played an excellent game, fighting to the end. but the Con- tinentals were brilliant, and gave Holmes one of the busie>t nights ,. • of his career. Turch·ick and Camright continu- With Bill Joy and Sunny Dale I leading the wa,·, Hamilton never I, ed their race for .<coring honm·s J again on Saturday night with 29 let up and liept Union on the de-' fensive a gaud deal of the time 1' points between them in Hamilton's new gymna~ium, but it wa\ not Joy and Dale are two of the best i enough, as a Eecond half surge by skater\ the Dutchmen have had to the Continentals gave them their step all year, and form the baclt- first win over a Union basketball bone of the Hamilton sextet. team in ten years. Both teams put Wikoff Scores up a gteat offensive show but Union's lone score came in the Hamilton dropped in a margin of fit·st pet·i;Jd when Fred Wikoff four baskets in the second half to broke looe to take a pass from Car- give them the game, 56 to 48. son Thomp>on to score. Joy and Union Loses Lead Dale did the majority of the scor- ing for Hamilton. The Dutchmen too:' an eat·Iy lead. Dud Holmes, Brad Hastings 'l.nd 19 to 7, in the first ten minutes. Bill Hartt, all playing their la.=t playing bettet· ball than they have g-ame. did ~- bangup job for Union all season. Arpat·ently on their way as did Bob Baker in the first string to an easy victory, Union relaxed line. while Hamilton reversed the situa- ::::=:=:=:;:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::==.; lion to take a 31) to 20 halftime · fi , lead. The second half was a hard fought affair but the Dutchmen wet e unable to regain their firot period punch and fell before tr\ sharpEhooting of Williams anrl Smith. AI Turchick pressed Hamiltor,'~ Smith for scoring honors wit·h 1~ points to the former's 20. the mar- gin being two foul shots. Jack WiHiams was close on Turchick's heels with 17 pointr;. Union G F p Carnwright, rf ....... 5 1 11 Jakobowski, If ........ 1 2 4 Rathlev, c . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1 7 Macomber . ' ..... . . . . 1 1 3' Turchick, rg ........ 9 0 181 Santee, lg ........... 2 1 5 WyEocki, Ig ......... 0 0 0 -- - ·- Totals ••••••• 0 •••••• 21 6 48 Hamilton G F :.;[ Williams, rf .......... 8 1 Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 I Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUk MOTTO ''Quality - Service Satisfaction\ • 598 B'way- For Better Values For a Real Treat Try--- & HOT BUTTERED RUM and • LOBSTER on a • COLD NIGHT at PELOP•s RESTAURANT STATE ST.-Near Proetor's Peer ................ . Clowe, rg ........... . Senn Tops for Union Johnny Senn turned in the best perform•ances for Union, taking a fourth in the dowahill race and a seventh place in the slalom_ Dick Marvin finished fifth and Jim Peel seventh in the downhill race to give Union a team position of sec- ond in this event. Marvin placed eighth and Peel tenth in the sla- lom to give Union third in this event. Greshman ........... . Allen, lg ............ . 0 440. -~===========9 0 Coach Wheatley indicated that he II Dandereau ......... . 0 would use Murphy in the distance SILVER DINER 7 Albany Academy (30) G Punkett, rf . . . . . . . . . . 1 Gabriels, If . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Touhey, c . . . . . . . . . . . 0 6 F 0 0 1 0 3 2 20 P Fencers Drop Close ~ Match to Williams Erie Boulevard Quality Food -Always Oper, One Step frorr State Streei The me!1 participating in the meet for Union were student coach John Senn, Dick Marvin and Captain Jim Peel. Tom Hannigan, Rex Moon, Paul Myers and Bob Nichols, all freshmen and ineligi- Shaw ................ 1 Peck, rg . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Helmbold, lg . . . . . . . . . 3 1 2 9 8 12 6 30 Score at halftime - Albany 21, Union 5. ble to . e?ter the meet, assisted in 1 weekends ago the Union skiers the ·OffiCiatmg of the meet. were 53 points ahead of R.P.I. who At the St. Lawrence meet two I won this meet finishing 34.5 points weeliends ago the Union skiers 53 ahead. INTRAMURALS Bowling Schedule February 12-Neutrals vs. Sigma Phi, Delta Phi vs. Kappa Nu, Phi Gamma Delta vs. Phi Delta Theta, Alpha Phi Delta vs. Phi Sigma Delta, Chi Psi vs. Kappa Alpha. February 13-Alpha Delta Phi vs. Delta Upsilon, Theta Delta Chi vs. Phi Sigma Kappa, Beta Theta Pi vs. Sigma Chi, South College vs. Kappa Sigma. Bowling Results Alpha Phi Delta 3, Alpha Delta Phi 0; Delta Phi 2, Phi Gamma Delta 1; Sigma Chi 2, Phi Sigma Kappa 1; Beta Theta Pi 2, South College 1; Phi Sigma Delta 2. Psi Up:oilon 1; Neutrals 2, Phi Delta ·•-~~~~~~~~- Theta 1; Sigma Phi 2, Kappa Nu 1; Delta Upsilon 3, Kappa Alpha 0, and Kappa Sigma 3, Theta Delta Chi 0. Foul Shooting The foul shooting contest begins today. Every student in college. excepting the freshman and var- sity basketball team members are eligible ·to compete. Fouls will be counted daily in the gymnasium from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m . Notice The second round of \basketball 21\ must be played by this Satur- day. With relaxing music ... pause and ~1?~ \K~ Four generations have enjoyed the refreshing goodness of ice-cold Coca-Cola. Its pleasing taste always leaves a cool, clean after-acnse of complete re- freshment. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola. YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, Inc. -·--~-·-------------- Williams College fencers tri- umphed over Union's swordsmen in a closely contested meet Saturday at Williamstown. Union took 7 of the 17 bouts, giving Williams the match, 10 to 7. DOUW F. BEEKMAN Gasoline, Brake Service Bob Herman and Bill Moore of (Continued on Pa;ge 4) FOR RECORDS Call Ball and Ball Will Call U. S. Tires, Motor Tune-up Exides Lubrication Chains ''Regular Checkups Prevent Costly Accidents\ 601 UNION STREET Open Until 11 P. M. PHONE 6-3456 I !.·. _._;. ··,·,-; :•. !,.'' Talk about a swell treat ... just sink your teeth into smooth DOUBLEM\NT GUM f l chewing satisfaction, Yes or rea 1 . · ' t th into de lClOUS just sink your ee h f 11 NT GUM Velvety-smoot ' u DOUBLEMI . Chewing f efreshing flavor. o r d '1 adds fun to sports, DOUBLEMINT al y . ons . f rmal get-togethers, study sessl . 1n o h d sweeten Helps brighten your teet an little! b th too. And costs so your rea , d and Buy several packages to ay ' • . day . y delicious DOUBLEMINT every . en]o \·•• -~- L~_..,.-~--:--:~-.-~~ ·. . ... \ - \. ' __ .J

Pag·e Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1941 Barnes Opposes Any 'Union-Now' At Town Meeting Coaches Institute New Ideas for Team Practice The coaching department has instituted two new ideas in team practice which have sprung up in the ba><ketball and swimming circles in preparation for .the coming coul't and tank matches. Rev.· D. E. Robe:rts Outlines Problem All-Out British Aid 'Smoke-Screen\ Is Historian's Charge Declaring- that the \Union Now\ movement is a .mere smokescreen for all out aid to Britain, Dr. Harry Elmer Barnes, noted historian and columnist for the Snipps Howcu d newspapers told the audience .gath- ered to participate in the Empire State Town Meeting of the Air on Sunday afternoon that a federation of world' democracips is a \noble ideal, too good to be wasted by a case of wa·r hysteria\. Dr. Vernon ::-<ash, executive com- mitte£' member of the New Yml' committee of Federal Union Inc. dec!Rred in a messagE' read :by Dr. Fox that \now as in We.bster's time, liberty and union are onl' and in- separable\ and urged -an immediate federation of the United States with Great Britain and her six commonwealths to serve as a nu- cleus of a petmanent world order that would be -a.s Lincoln suggested \of for and by the people\ Holding that the ff.'deral form of government is ·best suited to \joint sovereignties, the safety and wel- fare of all and the independence in purely national concerns\ Dr. ::\l'ash in his m<'ssagl? sa-id that neither the world nor the \Union ::'\l'ow\ movement needs or asks for a super state. The ·people in evety ~ase he continued must be the final authority. The federation spo.kesman out- lin£'d the five requisites of a fed- eration as being \one common citi- zenship, one defense force. one cur- rency, one system of tr·ansportation, and one system of communication. In the n<'gative> opinion Dt·. BarneR cited thE' case of the League of Nations which was unsuccessful and which the l'nited Stat0s did not join. He declared that Cnion Now was too large a step and that it was not feasible at the present time with the second World \Vat in progtess. Pointing out that thf' United States had to fight a civil wat· .bP- fot·e it could pres<'rve its f<'rle>ration. Dr. Barnes doubter! that a feder- ation with Britain '>VOU!d not entail a similar occutTencP. \The British hav<' not be<'n bosom ftienrls in the past except when they ha:ve needed our aid. If Britain win~ this war,\ he cc.ncluded \we will see whether she wants us in .pPace time.\ Neh; Nitchman in prepar·ation for the R.P.I. basl,etball game scheduled for Saturday night in Troy has had the backboards in the gym painted in the form of a fan to resemble the round backboards on the R.P.I. court. Daily shooting practice at these ba0kboards ~hould prepare the varsity for the unusual condi- tions to ·be met in Troy. While down in the swimming pool Joe Wheatley has his swim- men; paddling- around with large web sna·ped. rubbet· contraptions attached to their ankles to >tn'ngthen the ldck in his swim- mers· legs. Not only do they strPngthen the swtmnwrs legs, but the boys also rip through the water at a high rate of speed. Kappa Nu 's Hold Late Initiation Filling the deficiency created by the Dec<'mber quarantine the Ka,p- pa :Nu ftaterni·ty held a belated \Hell \Vee!(' for its freshman class followed ,by a banquet and dance at the Pine Point Inn after the formal imtiation on Satm·day evening. Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox was the .principle ,;pea·kt•r at the banquet. In his a ddt css to. the fraternity Dr. Fox warned t-hat the fratl?rnity system was in grave dan:ger of fall- ing out of existence at the present time. He declared that the function of a fraternity is to add something to the character of young college students so that they may become better equipped to live in concord with their fellow men after they leave schuol. \The f1aternity in bringing men of different interests together :should tend to make eac:h individual a better member of his community,\ Dr. Fox went on to say. Should the groups not prove that it aids in the scholastic and social development of its members their day,; would be numbered. Those men who were formall~· initiated were: Fred Seigle '43, Robert ::-<emeroff '43, ~lartin Cap- Ian 'H, Jack Family '44. Marvin Cramer '44, Harding Brown '44, Joseph ~101-ris '44. ---0----- Dr. Paul Hemke Addresses Union-Rensselaer Alumni Church Has to Speak Directly to the Needs Of the Present Day The problem confronted by the chm ch today when it must speak directly to t·he needs of the age and at the same time re>sist uncompro- misingly evNything in our civiHz~-~ tion which falls short of the spmt of Christ was set ,before the con- gregation at the regular devotional services in Memorial Chapel Sun- day by Rev. David E. Ro·berts, dean of students at the Union Theologi- cal Seminary. 1 Although this dilemma is not 1 new, said the pteacher, \it is hard j to imagine a time when it was more acute and overwhelming.! Contempo1 ary events sweep us I headlong in one direction, while the way of Christ leads us in the • opposite direction, and thi:; makes the position of the church well nigh I intolerable.\ Aclmowledging that the first task of the church is to drive home the conflict between Christian demands and present day life, Rev. Roberts declared, \If the church merely parrots the dominant in tel ests and prejudices of the nation, it can pro- vide no spiritual guidance at all. Transplant yourself fot' the mo- ment to some dictator-ridden coun- try, where you could hear nothing from the pulpit which conflicted with the policies of the patty in power, and then 1·emember that every time we try to water-down Christianity to terms of expediency, we are betraying a sacred trust.\ The work of the churc.h is only half accomplished when it has ·pre- served the purity of its message, Rev. Roberts continued, \The mote difficult half of its task is to put men in touch with a saving power within the present situation. The more our civilization flouts and ignores Christianity, the more des- perately it needs it. Times of pro- found human defeat can be times when Christianity r·enders its great- est se1 vice, so long as it remains faithful ,to its message. We all know the pedl of a spurious 'return to religion', but that need not blind us to the fact that hope for inter- national justice, preservation of the rights and dignity of man, and ulti- mate release fro.m. the travail of war. depend in large ·measure upon the concrete realization of those principles and ideals which Chris- tianity fosters.\ ----o---- -- ---o---- Dr. Paul Heml,e, head of the de- UNION STUDENT IN NAVY Act Conscription Letter Uncovered Personal observations by a formet college treasurer, who noted muc:h college and general history, of riots which swept ~ew Yorlr City when the government attemptE>d to en- force a Civil \Vat· conscl'i·ption act was discovet ed in the letterpress files of thP college by K<'nneth Hayes. assistant librarian. \\.'riting on August 22. 1863, to Professor GH!espie. Jonathan Pear- son, long- time treasurer of Union. wrote from New Yot k City that: \Draft 0\\er--all quiet: didn't dat·e to move: \Uncle Sam\ had his dogs here 1 eady to bite: copper·heads dreadfully riled about it.\ Under the act of ~iarch 3. 1863, partment of aeronautical engineer- ing at Rensselaer Polytechnic In- stitute, wlll discuss \What Is Ahead in Aviation\ at the second annual Union College-Rensselaer alumni dinner to be held February 18 at Hale House on the Cnion campus. The dinner, which will be preceeded by an informal reunion at seven o'clock. Organizing the department which he now leads, Dr. Hem]{e has taught for six years at R. P. I. Previously. ,he was an instructor for nine years at the United States ~aval Academy ,post graduate school and he was stationed at the government aeronautical 1 esearch laboratory at Langley Field, Texas, for a span of three years. Dr. Hemke has also been a Guggen- heim fellow at Cambridge Univer- sity, England. -- 0 --- which se.t up conscription In the !\'OTICE Civil V\'ar, there were minor riots in All pre-medical students of the Rutland. Vt .. Woostet·, Ohio. Boston. clas,;es of 1942 and 1944 are invited Mass, Portsmouth. N. H., but by far to pat ticipate in a d-iscussion in the worst was in New York City. Old Chapel at 7:30 on Wednesday Fanned by the indiscte<'t remarks ev<'ning. Dean R. S. Cunningham of Governor Horatio Seymout·. the of the Albany Medical School will tempers of the> ::\l'ew YOII{Prs flarPd be the speaker. ag-ainst t'hP :mettod of money pay- .::-~~~=~~~=~~~~~~~ ments as thP alternative to military lr service, against the \rich man's money and poor man's blood\ sys- tem. A mob <'omposerl rr.ostly of for- eign born labor. ~tm med the draft headquarters. tool{ the att-endants prisoner. and pillaged privatP J homes, sa•loons and other buildings for four days with a los>' of $1,500.- 000. Federal troops heading toward Gettysburg were sent back to New York and oth<'l s were sent from the Army of the Potomac to put down the revolt. On August 19 the drawings pro- ceeded with the results described by Pearson in his letter·. The copper- heads, Butternuts of Peace Demo- Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 Charles P. Trumbull, of the class of 1940 was among the 399 men graduated from the United States Naval academy at the exercises held in Annapolis on February 7. At the Maryland schcnl Trumbull received a degree of bachelor of science and a commission of ensign in the United States Navy. He has been assigned to duty on board the ct uiser Louisville. DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM We Serve Beter Food for Better Health 118-120 JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. crats. as they were called, led the opposition. They were northernE>ts who advocated union 1 by negotiation and denounced military arrests. conscription and emancipation. All SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. this Pearson saw and 1 ecorded. ----o----- :\IJOTICE The coordinated Engineering So- cieties will hold their me<'ting in the Old Chapel at 8 o'clock Thurs- day evening. Professor Homer H. :Nugent, of the RensselaPr Poly-; technic Institute faculty w.!ll be the , 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR C!tnurnr~irusin spealier. I~==============================.! CALENDAR Toda~· Varsity Swimming. Union vs. Trinity at Trinity 7:30 p. m.- Defense Training Classes 8:30 p. m.-Civic Music Associa- tion, Don Cossacks. Plaza The- atre Wednesda~ 10:00 a. m. - Daily Spealrer, Rt. Rev. Reilly, \Abraham Memorial Chapel Assembly. Mo~sign~~­ Lmcol,n. 3:30 p. m.-Giee Club Rehearsal, Hanna Hall 7:00 p. m.-Bible Study Group. Home of Pr·ofe,;sor Wa!'len C. Taylor, 38 Union Ave. 7:30 p. m.-Pre-Medical .Students meeting. Speaker, Dean R. S. Cunningham, Dean of Albany Medical College. Juniors and Freshman, ·Old Chapel 7:30 p. m. - Defense Training Classes ThW'sday 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly. Speaker, Professor William W. Bennett, \Would a Labor Party Be Desirable in Amer- ica,\ Memorial Chapel. 7:30 p. m. - Defense Training Classes 8:00 p. m. - Coordinated Engi- neering Societies, Speaker, Professor Homer H. Nugent of Rensselaer Polytechnic Insti- tute, Old Chapel Friday 10:00 a. m.~Daily Assembly. Or- gan Recital, Dr. E. A. Tid- marsh, Memorial Chapel. PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Interested in Sclzer1ectady Interested i11 JJ,YJON MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET JV atch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS Fencing T earn Beaten at Williams <Continued from Page 3) Union were the stars of the match. Herman won all his foil bouts and gave a creditable performance with the sabre which he has only taken up this year. Moore wen both his epee matches, one against the WHliams captain, Miles Burford, reported to be ai1 ace in his o;vn right. This Saturdar the team will meet R.P.I. in the Alumni Gym at 2:30 I p.m. R.P.I. has just taken up fenc- ing and this is their first year of it a,; a var~ity ::;port. Capta:in \\Val'- 1 ren Kimmey .Iool>ed for a:n easy victory over the men from Troy. The summary: Foil: Williams 5, Union 4. Butes <Wl defeated Kimmey <Ul 5-3; Herman <Ul defeated Browne <Wl 5-1; Bakal !Ul defeated Lee lWl 5-4: Herman <Ul defeated Bates tW> 5-4; Browne lWl defeated Bakal <Ul 5-3; Lee lWl defeated De Lorenzo 1 Ul 5-3; Bates I W) de- feated Bakal <Ul 5-3: Browne <W> defeated Moore <Ul 5-4; Herman tUl defeated Lee 1Wl 5-4. Epee: Cnion 2, Williams 2. Bur- ford <Wl defeated Kimmey IU) 3-2; Moore <Ul defeated Clarl{ <W> 3-2; Clark IWl defeated Kimmey IUl 310; Moore lUl defeated Bur- ford < Wl 3-2. Sabre: Williams 3, Union 1. Birdsall IUl defeated Hugo <Wl 5-3; Tenney 1 W> defeated Bird- sall <Ul 5-3; Kraft <Wl defeated 1 Herman <Ul 5-3: Hugo <Wl de- feated Herman < Ul 5-3. Patronize Ccncordiensis Advertisers IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State Street -Our Service is Ideal --just Try One Haircut LOUIS WASSERMAN QUALITY MEAT MARKET 345 Broadway Phones 4-3364, 4-3365 ICE CREAM DAIRY PRODUCTS WM. GREEN JR. DAIRY 1701 Union St. Tel. 3-2161 GAZETTE JPRE§§ Printers STOP THIEF! T HlRTY-0:\E hundred revolutions a minute is lightning fast all right. Hut when a bearing revoh·ing at that speed makes more noi~e than a hoiler iactory and coasts to a stop in 12 seconds, then it's time to look ior n good lubricant. There's a catch though; the bearing is a part lli an x-ray tube and operates in a high vacuum. The tendency oi oil and grease to vaporize under these conditions makes it impossible to use ordinary lubricants. B l'RGL\RS and other criminals cin no longer hope that bad radio weather will increase their chances of a getaway by gumming up police radio. :\tmospheric disturbances, ignition noises, street car interierence -in iact all the reception de\·ils that plague the liie oi radio police practi- cally disappear with the introduction oi irequency modulation, the new method oi broadcasting de;·eloped by :\1ajor E. H. Armstrong. Several two-way F:\1 instal- lations have already been made. One of the first was in Douglas County, ::-.;ebraska, which recently installed a number oi G-E transmitters and receivers. Among those responsible for many oi the G-E developments which have made two- way F:\1 possible are I. R. Weir (Rose Poly, '21) and H. P. Thomas (Harvard, '25)-transmitter engineers; and \\'. C. White (Columbia, '12) and K. C. De\Yalt (Iowa, '2-) --vacuum tube engineers. So Corporation engineers :\tlee !Oregon State, '29), Filmer (:\rmour Tech, '31 ), and Wilson (College oi Em- poria, '31) set to work and developed a new lubricant -barium. \\'hen a thin film of this metal was applied to the hearing, its speed rose to over 3500 rpm, the noise oi opera- tion was materially reduced, ami the coast- ing time was increased to eight minutes. The benefit oi these young men's research is not limited to the x-ray field alone, ior their fint!ings will apply equally well in all cases where rotating devices operate in a vacuum. GENERAL~ELECTBI~ z V< Fi G ca ell m. Ci be Yc th· ce: ua be fa' ba do Mi m: lUJ te1 au de te1 th' da Yl pr Sc ce al1 su ba gr va D1 of gr gr Fr Ar ne as ro. EI St Bt th to !OJ of th Ia an m· co Ll dl• wi wi b~ th so \I w1 TIE w cl: th fo bJ Sl U1 M co br 0~ re cl' w of in th th UI ic, Cl to m re OI tl) li,z Io \1 cc \( t~ es

t Union Men Sports Lead Forum On Pages At Sage Three and Four Z-511 Vol. LXIV.; No. 32 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y .. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1941 PRICE FIVE CENTS Five Prog:ra·ms Glee Club on Will Its Be New Sung By York Trip The New Replaces the Old !Feigenbaum Elected New .Editor To Broadcast Over NBC Red Network Tomorrow; Sing Tonight Before New York Alumni Assembly Union College's Glee Club, 30 members strong, leaves the campus this morning for its annual Metropolitan tour. In- cluded in its list of singing engagements are concerts in Ja- maica, Long Island and the Hotel Ambassador in New York City, a radio broadcast and two church services. The high point of the trip will .~:v• -------------- be reached tonight at the New i 1 ---------------- 1 York Alumni's Assembly. There 1 the club will render a full con- cert at 8:30 p. m. for the grad-: uates and their wives which will . be followed by dancing. The af- ' fail·, which i's being held in the 1 ball room 10f the Hate.J Ambassa- dor, is unQier the direction of F. ' Michler Bishop, '24. 1 When the club arrived at Ja- maica this noon it was served , luncheon in the high school cafe· teria and later sang before an audience of three thousand stu- dents. The students in return, en- tertained the club at a tea dance this afternoon. Following the dance, the club left for t·heir New York hotel. Mr. Charles Vosburgh, principal of the Jamaica High School, who has arranged the con- cert at his school, is a Union alumnus. Program of Musical Value The program which is being sung tonight is designed to bring back a spirit of the campus to the graduates and yet be of musical value to the men who participate, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, director of the Glee Club said. The pro- gram . includes a representative group of numbers from England, France and the United States. The American group is made up of negro spirituals described as being as \American as fried chicken and roast corn.\ The first group, which is the English group, will open with Stephen Townsend's \T.he Vicar of Bray.\ The song tells the story of the vicar who turned from Papist to Protestant and back again so long as he might remain the Vicar of Bray. This win. be followed by the \Minstrel's Song\ by Adam De Ia Hale written in the middle ages and two folk songs taken from the music of Scotland and the Cornish coast of England. They are \Loch Lomond\ and the \Cornish Fid- dler's Song.\ Edward Schulze, '42, will sing the solo. T.he second and fourth group will be made up of selected songs by the Glee Club quartets. The third group made up of French songs will open with Duparc's \Dreamworld\ and be follow€d with \L'Heure Exquise\ by Rey- naldo Hahn in French. Gounod's \Song of the Golden Calf\ from Faust will close this selection of French numbers. Swim Records \Fall\ Before Murphy, Keers Captain Gordon Murphy, star 440 man on tl:e varsity swim- ming team, and Ed Keers, stel- lar dash man, brol'e two college records and one worlds record between them this week while practicing for the Rochester meet. Swimming in the record time of :50:4 in the 100 yard fr·ee style, Keers smashed the world~ record of :51 ~econds previously held by Johnny Weismuller, 'i~ well as the college record of :54:9 set by Chuck Passe in 1938. At the same time Keers broke the 50 yards free sty!c record of :25 seconds set by Burt Brittin In 1940 as he swam the distance in :22:9 second;,;. Another one of Passe's record~ fell as Murpl:y swam the 220 yards free style in 2:17:9 to chop off :10 seconds from the rec<>rd set in 1938. It sure would be nice if the boys could wear those large rub· ber flippers around their feet in the meets this year. Fox To Dis(uss Star Evolution Meeting of Sigma Xi To Hear Professor In Illustrated Lecture Pictured above are the newly elected Senior Board Members and Two Retiring Senior~>. From left to right: Seated-Samuel Portnoy, Solomon Blechman and Jonathan Pearson, Standing- J.ames Twining, Al'lnand Feig-enbaum and Paul Becker. Howard Was To '95, Editorialist, Dead; Degree: Receive Honorary -- . I Bartholomew B. Howard, editor-®------- i completed on schedule. I can only i 1 ial writer of the St. Louis Post- Dispatch who last year was award- ed the Pulitzer prize for writing the most distinguished editorials in 1939, anticipated his death from a heart attack on Wednesday, it was revealed today when President Dix- on Ryan Fox of Union College made public ::\lr. Howard's Jetter conditionally accepting the invita- tion to attend Union's 146th ann·ual commencement exercises on June 9, to receive the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters. say I shall be delighted to be at I Union in June, if .. , \To yourself, to the Trustees, and I to Union, 1 \Yours gratefully, Bart B. Howard.\ I President Fox teplied to Mr. 1 Howard: \We are willing to take 1 God into partnership with respect to your attendance here on June: 9th. I earnestly hope that every- j thing will come all right for our 1 both realizing our common desire. i Mr. Howard who graduated from We will put you down as coming, . Union College in 1895 wrote on unless there is definite and neces-; February 7, in answer to the trus- sary news to the contrary. Looking tees' invitation to receive the hon- forward to meeting you and to wei- crary degree from his Alma Mater: coming you to Old Union ... \ \Dear Dr, Fox: Illness has pre- Bart Howard entered Union Col- vented earlier acknowledgment of lege in 1893 after having studied at your letter of January 17. I am Phillips Exeter Academy and Wil- deeply moved by the generous ac- Iiams College. Although a left- tion of the Trustees and am hoping hander, he 'became a brilliant sec- I may be able to be present in June ond baseman and was captain of to accept the signal honor they the baseball team in 1895. After have done me. W'hether I shall is. graduation he ,played professional I am bound to say, somewhat baseball, earning .between $175 and \The Evolution of the Stars\ will doubtful. $200 a month while earning $6 a be the topic of Dr. Augustus H. week as a cub reporter. He also Fox, assistant professor of mathe- \One of my finest newspaper distinguished himself while at matics, when he addresees the friends, similarly afflicted, phrased Union College writing poetry. Union College chapter of Sigma it gallantly and poignantly some He began his newspaper career Xi at 8 o'clock tonight in the time ago as he left the Chicago on the old Schenectady Evening physics laboratory. News office for that sanitarium at Star, since merged to become the Dr. Fox will illustrate his lee- Battle Ct eek. He wrote me: 'I ;have Union-Star, under the city editor- ture with lantern slides lent for 1 come _to the end of my heart. He ship of Ned McEncrowe who later the occasion by the Hat·vard Col- 'I had .Just tur.ned forty, .under the distinguished himself nationally on lege observatory. In explaining the a~splces of r.ICh and vaned accom- Dana's brilliant New York Sun lecture, Dr .. Vladimir Rojansky,l phshment .. wrth the .great. years all staff. Howard went to South Arner- chapter president, says, \Stellar ahead. From my Vlew_pomt no re- ica and then became editor of both evolution, and in particular the monstrance may be filed. I have the News-Herald and the Globe in n;echanism by which the stars de- 1 ha~ almost seventy years, the pre- Joplin, Mo, where he married Ann rive the stupendous amounts of 1 scribed allotment, a.nd hfe . and I Picher, and tutored younger news- energy that they continually radi- 1 have had a ·bully time of It, and paperrnen including Ben Reese ate, has long been a major prob- there can be no protest at the sum- now madaging editor of the st' !em of astronomy. But only with- I mons to take. off for 'the undiscov- Louis Post-Dispatch, and Wesley in the last three years has a sat- I ered countty. Winans Stout, editor of the Satur- isfactory solution of this problem I \That is how it stands. My ac- day Evening Post. been propose~, a solution .. based .on i cep~ance must .needs carry a reser-1 From Joplin, Mr. Howard went moden experiment£ dealmg wit~ [ vatwn. I realize, too, that Com- to the Columbus, Ohio, Sun as man- the transmutation of the elements. men cement programs have to be I <Continued on Page 4l At Pub I ication' s Board Meeting Blechman. Pearson and Portnoy Named To Senior Board Posts at Wednesday Elections Armand \'. Feigenbaum, '42, of Pittsfield, i\Iassachusetts, was named editor-in-chief of The ·Concordiensis for the fiscal year ending February, 1942, at a meeting of the Student Pub- lication's Board held Wednesday. He succeeds James E. Twining, Jr., '41, of Ridgewood, New Jersey. ------·•, Other· men named to the incom- .----------------. i ing ~enior board were Solomon L. H anzilton' s President Blechman, '42, of Mamaroneck, 0 jjered 1U innesota Post I managing editor; Jonathan Pear- Dr. William H. Cowley, presi- dent of Hamilton College, has been invited to accept the pt·e>- idency of the University of Min- nesota by the Minnecota board of regents. Dr. Cowley, a grad- uate of Dartmouth, has asked and been granted ten day:: to decide whether or not he will accept and to confer with the board of trustees of Hamilton College. Dr. Cowley, who graduated with the class of 1924 from Dartmouth, undertook gr·aduate study at the University of Chi- cago in psychology and political science. In 1929 he headed the student personnel research di- vision of the bureau of educa- tional research at Ohio State University. He also taught a graduate cour.::;e in psychology. In 1934 he was named an as- sociate professor at Ohio State and the following year he was designated a full professor. In addition to his work at Ohio State, several universities and colleges, including Minnesota, consulted him on administrative and student personnel problems. He is the author of numerous articles in scientific and lay pe- riodicals,-(AP) Union Men Lead Forums At Sage Student Committee For Democracy Hears History Professor Sixteen Union men participated last night in a ~eries of forums sponsored by the Russell Sage Stu- dent Committee for Democracy. The program began at 4:30 p.m. with tea in the German Lounge of the Fz·ench Hou.se. After dis- cussion of plans for the evening discussion following the tea, the SCD groups went to dinner in sev- eral of the dormitories on the Rus- sell Sage campus. After dinner the Union students, each of whom had been paired off with a Rusoell Sage member of the SCD who were permanent discus- sion leaders for the forums, at- tended the talk of Dr. Donald L. McMurry, professor of history, who spoke on \The Unfolding of Amer- ( Continued on Page 4) l son, '42, of Scotia, sports editor; J and Samu~l S. Portnoy, ,'42, of Jackson He1ghts, L. I., assoc1ate ed- itor. They succeed Robert S. Schul- berg, '41, or Richmond, Va., and Paul W. Becker, '41, of Schenec- tady, associate editors; John D. Phillips, '41, of Amsterdam, sports editor; and John P. Lewis. '41, of Huili:on Falls, editor-at-large. Five members of the class of 1943, Granger Tripp, Robert Hay- ner, Robert Bif:hop, Thomas O'Con- nor and Harvey Fishbone, were pro- moted to the junior board of The Concor·diensis, while six members of the class of 1944 were named to the sophomore board. They are Edward Johnson, William Hart, Thomas Cullen, Arthur Pastore, Al- bert Kronick and Seymour Thick- man. Idol and Gamet Elections The Publication·s Board also elected Jo~e.ph Furlong, '42, to the position of national advertising di- rector of \The Idol'' and Willard Taylor, '42, to the position of lo- cal advertising director of the quarterly. David Ro;;enbloom, '43, was elected to the business board of \The Garnet,\ senior yearbook. Motions were passed upon provid- ing that \The Garnet\ present to each fraternity the engraving of the members after use by that pub- lication and that engravings of the seniors be given to the Graduate Council after lli'e by \The Garnet.\ Feigenbaum, newly elected. editor- in-chief of The Concordiensis, pre- pared for Union at Pittsfield High School. A member of Kappa Nil Fraternity, he holds a general scholarship and has been mentioned consistently on the Dean's List. He was chairman of both freshman and sophomore dance committees of the ~lass of 1942. A varsity debator, he Is a member of the Philoma- thean Society. In his sophomore year.. he wae a representative-at- large to the Student Council and photographic editor of \The Gar- net.\ He is a co-founder of the Student Committee for Democ- raC~', a member of the Radio Work- shop and earned an \aUa\ letter in tennis. To Study Circulation Defects The .fifth group will consist of negro spirituals. \Ezekiel Saw De Wheel\ taken from the opening chapters of the book of Ezekiel in the Bible will first be sung to be followed by \Wade in De Water\ by Enders and \0 My Lawd, What Shall I Do?\ by David Guion. A Union College Medley, led by F. Michler Bishop, '24, will close the concert. Union College Glee Club Members on Metropolitan Tour Incoming managing editor, Blech- man, attended Mamaroneck High School before entering Union. He has served as a staff member for two years at the Freshman Camp at Pilot Knob, is a member of the Outing Club and has been men- tioned on the Dean's List. He is the publicity manager of the Glee Club. A neutral, living in North College, Blechman has participated in freshman football and tJ·ack. Club Broadcasts Saturday Saturday morning the club w.ill broadcast from 11 to 11:15 a. m. over the NBC Red Network. The rest of the day will be free to the club members. Sunday the choir will sing at the regular services of the Hitchcock Memorial Chapel in Hartsdale, N. Y. Members of the congregation will entertain them at dinner. Dr. Tidmarsh and the choir will unite at the Sunday vesper serv- ices of the First Presbyterian Church of Passaic, N. J., home- town of Edmund G. Kelly student manager, to present a joint organ recital and concert of hymns. The vesper program will be opened with Dr. Tidmarsh playing tl;lree .. numl;lers by Bae!x \Toccfl.ta . . •. 1 . . and' Fugue in D J).o!iJ1,o'J!l• to- be fQ(-t\ 1 Towed by \Air for G String'• and \Trio in E Flat.\ The cqair wm continue t~~''i :j3ach .' cycle' 'singing \Grant Us It Do With 'Zeal\ and then Auiad .;~ \~ve 1 Marie'j, Pal- eStNna'fl \0 1 ;' ppe ITesil\' and Tches- <Continuect on Page 4) • t' -~ . Pearson, who occupies the posi- tiOn of s-ports editor on the new Fenior board, prepared for college at Scotia High School. A member of Sigma Phi Society and the Gar- net Key, he is a member of the Radio Workshop, a contributor to \The Idol\ and sports and general news correspondent at Union Col- lege for the Schenectady \Ga- zette.\ He has been mentioned on the Dean's List and won a varsity award in cross-country. Elected as associate editor for the coming year, Portnoy studied at Newton High School before en- tering Union. A member of Kappa Nu fraternity, he has been men- tioned on the Dean's List and has served. on the so.phomore dan(:e • ?O~m1ttee. .of, tbjl• Olass1of 1942. He'~· , J,S, a m~Jtlcb 1 e~ 1 f of ;the Radio Worl~- , shop' and or the Motiliteban·ks. The St~dent Publicatipnrs Board :;tlso appomted a committee consist- · • 1 , mg of Dr. W. W. Bennett, A. Arthur' ' 'I Da:-·i~. LasJ.rar Schwartz !1Pfl Jame.s . Twmmg ta make recommendations fa~ improving the method of distrib- utmg The Concordiensis. I '.

Page Two Qlou.cnr fou ~DEll 1877 \~I !.'ausa Pasa Parole .1ssai'' THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1941 I It is not congratulati.ons A t\ S I and words or encouragement UC 10n a e to the new editors with which y· ld I want to fill this space allot- . le . s Documents ted automatically to each out- going seniOl' board member on Of local Interest the eve of his demise. \Hoot\ Feio·enLaum and his co-wod<- TH!NGS TO COME Fry Day 8 p0st merid·ian----'Sig Zi geniuses meet i-n Physics la.b to hear Gus <Not D. R.) Fox talk about \Stal's and Why They Is\. i\fcllib!.;'fof ih-'= A-;;~~-clat~d Cu-lkgllite-·l'It:s~ ~~tl~t-li:-tl ilJuttli\ uf- tne- C·il~ lt·g~alc Vl~e=-~. _ _ Tb~Uffi(Tal nt:\v~-lltl.pcr uf~thl;.;' t>llltkllt~ lif l:olult Collt·t-;t:'. r•ulJIJ:-.la·d Tut·~­ Liav au~l Fttd.tv~ thtt~u~ltuu: tilL· L·ullt-~~.._. ~~.11.~~~- \' d . i ers know The Concor y, 1ts 1 j.oys and headache?. Th~y also . know the perennial wtsh of the retiring editors- that the Webb Purchases Items To Augment College Historical Collection Half an haUl· later, fa·!', far, away Un·ion Song Birds will trill in New Ynr!{ 101 the ,bene- tit of the::r.selves and thC' Alumni Fund. lf )OU want to go you'd better hur1y. Etlitoria·t ltuo;nl<l, tii'll'iu~tl:i1 iiUll~J-·l5,llt·gc l':uupUs~. ~T~leplwllt·. Scllenectad)·. 4-0l::~ ~ _ _ _ Pnbltcatlun Offlce;-TliC-Gazeite -p,~,s~, 33! ::;[:.1{,; ::;l:; BL\henecuidy -\· Y .. Telephone 4-HH 'Entered at tht: :::5<..:hencctaUy-Pu~t Ufi'kc ,lli ~t'l'Ulld Cluti~:\(atl .:\t:lt~ sllbsl'riptfon priee I<'i-ve-cellts a l'O:tiy-;$~uu -a) L·:u·-:~il\·ert·d- a-uy\\ hlrt= in the Umtecl Btare~. Senior Board James E. Twining, J.r ............ _ .... _ ...... _ ...... Editor-in-Chief Clu 1'~: Lud;.;t 1 tj~,:.!: Laskar Schwartz ........................ - ....... Business ::\ia:nager K<.llJll.l . .:\.u lluu::-c· · 4 · -;~:..:1 Robert S. Schulberg .............. _ ............... Associate Editor l'hl Sigma llt·lta l!uu,e-tl-U'i'G;; Paul W. Becl>er ........ _ .......................... Associate Editor :.!6 ::-;, l~ubillbOII ~t. G~';~•~'; John D. Phillips ........................ - ............ Sports Editor l'::d L:p:--ilutt llull~l'-4-~il'u John P. Lewis ..................................... Editor-at-Large ).{:,ldh: ~l·t lltoll, :'\.uJ\tll (.'.lllt·~t· ti·~l!lt li ,J. Donald Huigh .............................. Circulation Manager l'lli Pt·lt:t Tllt·la 1\t•U .... l' 1-l:.:U ---~-- ··-----~~-----~---------- REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. Co/lege Publishers RepresentatitJe 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N, Y, CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS AHCJELRS • SAN FRANCISCO --------:-----:------=------;----~---- Junior Board A hithcrtt> unlocated is~ue of XPxt Day new 1nen do a better job than \Pa.>ltime\, first student publica- LO ante m.-Ju.>lt another student the\' did. tion at Union College and edited speaker tDansel). Guess Rather to the Concordy's by John Heward Payne, was pur- Whe 1 ·e·~ I readers, especially the under- chased for the College Tuesday by Varsity BasketbaJ.l-Un·ion wiH I Libra!'ian Helmer Webb at a pub- meet an ng1'nee1 'n school 1'n Cl' ·tss·I11ell, this mess~w:e is di- · e · · ' 1 g · · , ~ lie auction at the Parke Be·mel T10y. Over There. ~ rected. The Concordiensis is Gallerie,;, NPW York City. The Fleshman Ditto S:une Thing. :one of the least sought activ- salt· also included doeurnE.'nts for- 2:00 p. m Varsity Bat·hing Club I I ities on the campus. It is one mE.'l'ly tl!e pro.pel ty o.f the descend-~ will soak Rochestel at horne. . . f I Th ants of the family of Dilck Ro- (In the p 0 oi, you dope.) of the most fruit U · · e rea- meyn, founder of Union College. Same time, dilferent place - ~son behind this contJ·adiction. Also putchased by the collrg<' Union aml R. p_ r. will play . the retiring editors will never at thE' sale was a collection of B5 \Zona\ and company against : understand. items In Schenectady histol·y in- each oth€1'. Stick around, thi,'ll I eluding two real estate maps 1 u A little newspaj)el' experi- drawn b'' Dirck Romeyn. say yo . . I l 1 \ Hickory slidmg a I over the at 'ence is a valualJle thing. If 'Two Otht>:r Cnllpction.<; ·sold Colgate. Middlebury, No1·th 1 nothing else, it teaches one tc Two other coilections were Creek Rotterdam and Switzer- ', ~ret lll·s \''OI'lc done ·whethel' he lit f th t' I b land, for instance. c• ., h' soug rom e auc IOU \a e Y 1\ to 2:00·--Thc Rev. F. Bronner i feels like it Ol' not, to meet IS the college: 150 manuscripts and a will preach another in the Th C d . · few documents addressed to the ' deadline. . e oncor tens1s, Faith, Hope and Charity Se1- l Rev. Romeyn and a collection of all prevailing rumor to the about 51 manliscripts and docu- ies, on that well-known Sche- 1 contrary, is a very pr-ofes- ments concerned with the found- nectady wireless outfit. \Do I Amel'icans Have to BeHeve in · al 11ewspape1' Ed1'to1'S '\hO ing and early business of Union Sl011 · · • · \ Anything?\ he asks. We'll bite, I t, 1 d College. uecome emp oye on commer- The \Schenectady from 1684 to dl'> they? He doesn't. Armand Feigenbaum cia! papers are amazed at the 1812\ collection purchased by Mr. 15 to 15 ''\• Navy time-MOI'e Samuel Portnoy --~-----~~-- similarity to The Concm·dy- Webb is a remarkable collection radio. Science roundtable. Solomon Blechman s ni B d 1 • Ph:~osics profs will favor \The Issut'l l<}ditor ........ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · e or oar 1 six columns, four pages, twice especially valuable for .its history Contribution of Science to our ~--------------------------~ a week of the land development of Sche- Modem Civilization\. nectady. Those of :vou on the receiv- The collection begins with ex- 5:30-5:45, Bulova Watch Time, ing end of this newspaper who h-acts from the book of Ludovicus on that same old station-Dr. . h . t Cobes about his lands in 1684-9, ap- Clyde B. Moore, Plofessor of mig·ht ell.]O.Y a C ange Ill S a- Rural Education, Cornell Uni- h ff . d parently -copied about 1790. This tus, step up to t e o ICe an is followed by a series of deeds to versity, will discuss \Old Grey talk to the senior board mem- early settlers. Matter and Nouveau Ideas in · · · tl t ff one of those Democracies\. Lers about JOll1lllg le s a . \Schenl:'ctad;y in 1762\ 7:30-1:00 01' thereafter. \The The Twining regime has gone A pen and wasil drawn map en- Children's Hour\ at S-kidmore, ======================~,~======~~~'0==========~~===== Friday, February 14, 1941 · COMPLETE FINAL- d h l ·eins of its way but not The Concordy. titled \Schenectady in 1762\ is in- Sage, State or What-Have- Last J.\Iarch with eager hands we graspe t e eluded with the legend: \A true You? A bird in hand! Robert S. Schulberg Union's 63 .vear old semi-weekly publication to guide it Draught of the Land oi John Eps Sunday Deceased Seituate Lying and be- A h s th · O'h 't 6'th · · · The end of that vear is but a fe\v I \Vhen the time comes. to ing in the woeslyne on the north \ nd on t e · eventh Day Shalt 1 ou, 1 s \* ;;. eai. . . S>-' v .. 30 , to The Concordlen- Thou Rest\. As follows: d f I I t t I th t 1 I ~'J side of the mohaks River. This l1:(}8 a. m. of the morning after short days away an. or t 1e as 1me we 1ave · e oppol' Ul- sis! ev~ 1 ·y one ~ho h~s to praught was made at the Request the night ,before-SundaySer·v- l .t\' to 81 'nk 1 · 11 t 0 the ed1'tor's chair and pour forth our message.; wnte h1s own oL1tuary m the of John Baptest Van Eps Junim· ice. Rabbi Louis Bin8tock, h and Abraham Van Eps Junior this T 1 Sh 1 c F~r the last time we may see our names in the masthead I form of a farewell to ~ e pa- Seventh Day of April A'o A. D. toe~~~~ w~~r~? hi:zgo. Want . per usually waxe::, sentimental 1761 by me Isaac Vrooman D. Sur- That afternoon-Organ recital, above this column and for the last time \Ve shall dm1 the and weeps copiously_ This in veyor Gen.\ This land was on in the usual .time place and 't f tl f \The Kings highway which runs liO'hts in Silliman Hall with the assurance that another edi- spl e 0 1 e meJ:nory ? up the mohaks river.\ manner, not by the usual guy. \\ thoughts and moods ll1 certam Various documents relating to a 3 : 15 p. m.-Regular· Sunday af- tion of \our child\ is soon to appear. \\'ee hours of the morning that battle over the common lands ternoon Bull Session in Old ·Chapel. 3% to 3\ 1 will be We have often repeated that \·welcomes\ are trite things will never achieve the dignity which began in 1771 between two broadcast. Stick around an- of print until asbestos paper factions led by Bradt and Scher- other 15 minutes for more talk, and. for the first time it strikes us that \fare\vells\ are equal- merhorn, including one proposition comes into Q'enel·al use. f c I huh? Dr. Chas. G. Post, Assist- ] t 't Sh k I vet• cl 'l.l11S tll'lt \p·trtinO'\ is ~ to give 10 • 000 acres m· Union ol- ant Professor oi Political Sc!'- y as l'l e. · a espeare, lOWe , h· '· ' \\ Seriously, one never comes lege were also purchaBed as were ! ence at dear old Vassar and \S\'eet SOl'l'O'\\ and n·ho a1·e \'e to disa.gree with Shakes- t k t'l h h s several relating to deeds to and 1 ., ., n \ 0 now anyone Un l e a Mrs. Helen C. Gare\ Director d !, h )' · 1 t. from the Dutch Church and the ' I Jeme? In fact on this the 14th a.v of Feuruar.v t e rea 1za- labored lon!l.' and dili!rent :v ue- of .Social Studies in Schenec- ~ - - Rev. Romeyn. tion has come to us that the !!.Teat pla.vwl'ight's statement side him. That, every Con- One lease in 1771 to Caleb Beck tady Public .Schools will lead ~ - h d d '11 the argum;mt on \What Are was a masterpiece of understatement. cord:v man as one an Wl signed by B. Vrooman and extend- Civil Rights in Time of Na- t : t d W . ssed ed in 1794 by Dirck Romeyn has COil ll1Ue 0 0. e ml a tiona! Emergency, Anyway? As We Close Olll • a~~ocl'atl'Oll with tlle activitv which we sin- f 1 th f a pen and wash drawing on the I s d . h y ' ..,.., \ ,J ew n1ea s, more an a ·ew back. Another pen drawing by un ay mg t- ou d bette1· go cerelv Lelieve, as so mall\ have believed before us, is Union's chapel programs and classes Dirck Romeyn drawn in 1794 is to bed. You've had a tough - .I week-end. finest extra-curricular activity, we fully realize the \sorrow\ and worst of dallf~l~ep. Buht to also included. BluE\ Monday connected with this business of \parting\. In three and a balance the e lClt we ave Go to class for a change stupid. had the pleasure of knowing cordy Board, WOl'k togethel', Mmning and after lunch .Silli- half short years we have Lecome firmly attached to every- some of the men who were and smoothness of system and man Hall, How-to-Get-a-Jab-in- thing associated with the Concordy. It is with deep regret \tops\ to us. Carl Trahman, better achievments will be 1 One-Easy- Lesson- Discussion. th t d · 1 t t th 1 t · · J ]' B d H E ;'>'OUl'S, Mr. G. M. Gilt and Mr. George a we sun·en er our ng 1 ·o answer · e p 10ne ups a1rs 111 u ms un gus, Y nzer. v. Anderson, Consolidated Edi- Silliman Hall; to report the activities of our classmates and Larrv Pellettier and last but John D. Phillips son Company of New York. record theii· achievements to the best of our ability and to not least the rest of departing· 7:30 in the cool of the evening- colleagues. 1 It seems odd to b~ punching i That band . will < relheatse in Union Figures In Week-End Series Of Broad(asts Five Service Programs Are Among Those To Be Heard Via WGY Six radio progmms originating di-redly Ol' indirectly f.1·om Union wiH be broadcast by WGY Satur- day and Sunday. Five of these programs are in the \publ·ic serv- ice\ classifica t:on. The week-end ser1es will begin at 1:45 p. m. Satarday when Pro- fp,;sor Frederick L. Bronner uf the department of hi.>ltory will speak on \Do Americans Have to Believe in Anything?\ in the Am- ericaN Faith series of faculty talks originally delivered in Daily As- sembly. At 3 p. m. of the same day, fac- uHy memb€'rs iR the field of phys- ics will discuss the contribution of that science to modern civilization. Those faculty members who will participate in the broadcast in- clude: Dr. Vladimir Rojansky, acting head of the department; Dr. Frank J. Studer; Dr. Everett W. Thatcher; pr. Charles V. Strain, and Dz·. Zaka I. Slawsky. Dr. Clyde B. Moore, professor o-f rural education at Cornell Univer- sity, will present the current \Democratic Proc·esses\ talk on \Old Brains and New Ideas in a Democracy,\ at 5:30 p. m. Rabbi Binstock to Speak The Memor·ial Chapel Sunday service will take the air Sunday at 11:15 with Rabbi Louis Bin- stock of Temple Sholom, Chicago, Illinois, to preach the sermon. Dr. Charles Gordon Post, assist- ant professor of political science at Vassar College and Mrs. Helen C. Garey, director of social studies in Schenectady public sc•hools will lead the discussion on \What are Civil Rights in Time of National Emergency?\ for the 66th Empire State Town Meeting broadcast at 3:15p.m. The week-end series of broad- cao;ts will be terminated when Dr. Walter Consue-la Langsam, profes- sor of history, takes the air at 4:30 p. m. Sunday for a quarter- hour of news commental'Y on \news bPhind the news.\ Learn how to defend yourse~f and your country in the Gen- eral Engineering Building, the EEEE-EEEE lab. the Physics and the Chemistty ditto. Tui\.>Cl!y (String Beans) 10:00 a. m -Why not go to chapel? Double feature, star- ring Dr. D. Ryan Fox in \To- day's Notices\ and Gordon 11.. Silber in \What is National Temperament?\ 1:30-3:30 -Hot licks and jive off the whirling wax in Memorial Chapel. It's in the groove, fel- lows! The faculty, the lucky stiffs, wi'l crink tea at Hale House at 4:30, Cease at 5:00. GET YOUR HAIR CUT The Remodelled SANITARY BARBER SHOP Next to the Union Inn release the reins which we have Leen proud to hold during Every outgoing board from 1 a Conc~H.dy ~ypewnter for a: Si~~~;1n~~~: 1 ~~ith the above- our incumbency. That our incumbency was of such short force of tradition must offer last off1c1al tune. Most under- 1 Hooray for National Defense. duration i:s om· chief 1·egret. best wishes to its successcrs. graduates at the last account- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ We doubt the \lggy\ will need ing look back to one activity fi' WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING - ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY CO. Last year we pledged oUl·selves to se1·ve Union's best inter- ests and to the best of our ability we kept from breaking our pledge. As we look Lack on the condemnation that was ours for not taking a definite stand or for not having given a def- inite editorial policy ·we do not feel that Union's best inter- ests have suffered as a result. We have been plagued by indi- viduals with selfish desires of one sort or another in their efforts to gr.nd campus axes. We have been criticized time and again for joumalistic mistakes which we had not the slightest intentiun of maldng. We have praised those groups which, in our opinion, have done the most deserving work for all other individuals and groups in the college. In short, all that we have done, or have avoided doing, has been in our effort to keep a pledge. our good wishes to do a su- upon which they have pinned perior job, but he knows that most of their extra-curricular· he has them To \Sol\ ''10'- interest and effort during the, !l.'y,\ \Si and \Jack ~·e of- four-yea1· per. iod. With me it 1 - I \, th h t F 11 COR. STATE and CENTER STS. fer our blessings. May their i .1as ueen · 1.s s ee . o ow- 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ scoops be many and their :mg an erratic beat from the ,:::. tvpographical errors few. : 1\Iode.rn Language to the • Paul w. Becker I ~hys1cs Depart~ent as. a year- l hng, sophomor1cally mflated DELIVERIES AND SHOE REPAIR SERVICE FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF OUR CUSTOMERS GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Cor. Barrett Simply Phone 6-9419 We leave om· job, with re-, by a few by-lines, grinding I marks as to whether well done~ out make-up until three a. m. • or not reserved for the reader. '1 during a limited career on the 1 The usual custom is to leave. Junior Board, last year mail-; the incoming board with con-, ing back some filler virtuous·~=--=:-:=:::-=:-::;-: .. :·:·=-:--:=~::;~:;:--::-=::-:::;:=:==::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=~ O'ratulatory comments and re-! for its length, lately entering ~arks as to the trouble and: senile retirement-it all has work they have taken upon I Leen far from regrettable. themselves. However, the 1 For four years we have fol- trouble and work is only part lowed from a subjective view- of the game. There's the fun point the course of a publica- and goodtimes connected with tion which can experience sur- it not to be forgotten; battles , prising fluctuations in quality Before we step down for the last time we must take this opportunity to congratulate our successors with the sincere wish that they may find their association with the \reins\ as pleasant as we found ours. There are many ditches along the road, but we are confident that the new members of the Senior Bom·d are capable of steering a straight course. When people abuse the new board, as they will, let its memLers remember in the time of challenging criticism that it is easie1· to be a critic than to be criticized. with the advertising depart- i for all its facial standardiza- ment for room on the sports 1 tion. We don't claim that the page for one good sized story 1 . current year has seen the and a picture. peak ·Of the period. But we do And .so we leave with best I see a bright future ahead if wishes to the incoming dynas- the present personnel stands And now, editorially and personally speaking, I wish to ty. There is no use in passing by, if underclass candidates thank those who have helped make my association with The out advice and words of wis- become more plentiful, and if Concordiensis an extremely pleasant one and to the new dom, as they'll go ahead ·and the ~e~ding publ.ic maintains board, my personal congratulations and the best of luck for do as they please anyway. One a _cntJCal attentwn. As for · last thought though, the this new Board, we trust that the commg year. whole is greater than any of they will set the ball rolling. James E. Twining, Jr. its parts. So to the new Con- John P. Lewis Call Ball t;'O~ • . . . .. . · .. . Re···.li·····o· .. ~-.· .. ~~ .. :·d·.··'e·. r·s··· ·.· ••. · .. ·· .. · .. ·· :~ .... . · · .. · ··.· .. • .. ·.··.' ' . (. ' . . ' ·. \I\. . ···. \''·.-.-· ·~' : ' · · · .. · · . Cleaner . l . · · ,& Dyers and Ball Will Call lt~s Bowling Time at REUTER'S ACADEMY \U • I B ,. c t II mon s ow mg en er PHONE 6-3456 148 Clinton St. Schenectady, N. Y. l v~ M . Tl t1·av face and 32 t met will setll viet T the feat mal tear the~ tor) thir test ing wee thei the: SCOI sarr F pen Alf: on nig fou me1 par top eve is 1 ing the J bee pla SCI' of his wh Sat v be ski if Nit sta siti of lev AI Ca er, b01 thi a wh led tor lyr ne1 in~ fer off I Ca Co ed th• in fo1 ba wi we K1 tic te: th th th ni, pi: to ev a Ci of T1 in lit gi Iir sa w pc ce

uf will to As- of ion. will in- rett v. vet·- on n a elen dies will are a! pire at Dr. at on e!f ics to ar- A. off at THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1941 Page Three Three Garnet Teams Face R. P. I. Tom or row Varsity; F'resbmen (agers; Meet St-rong R. P.l. Squads Fencers 1n Troy The var>ity ba,;l,etball team • - t.l'avels to Troy tomoi·t•ow night to face the R.P.I. caget ~ for the sec- · ab:y be :J:l:olka and Ilarvey Mei- ond time thi·s year. Victims of a sel. Peer, Hill and Kayne wHI also 32 to 21 defeat the last time they :see plenty O·f action. met the Engineers, the Dutchmen · Ft>nc~>rs vs. R. ·P. I. will be out for revenge tlilat that The varsity fencing team face\. setbacl,, as well aE their second the R.P I. swordsmen tomorrow aft- victory of the yeat·. . er.noon at Troy in theiz· Eecond Though they wHI en·ler the game ·meet of the yeJ.rs. Against Williams· the underdog against the once de- !last week, though lo!'i·ng ~0 to 7, feated Engmeets, Coach Nitch- :the Dutchmen made a fine showing man points out that while his ':tnd on that basis should ta:ke their team's chances are not excellent, .irst win. they are good for a poBdble vic- The men expected to partici;mte tory. In a game with H.l:-'.I. any- ! fot· Union are Captain \Van en • thing gees, the same as in a con- Kimmey, Bob Herman, Abe Bakal, test with Hamilton. Nels was ·look- ; Bill Moore and BHI Birdcall. ing for a victory at Hamilton last week, and Hami·lton played over ------0- -- their heads with the remit that ·;_ 7 they wete on the long e·nd of the s t score. The Dutchmen may do the i]JOr S same thing tomorrow night. Following their win at the ex- ' ~ Slants . pense of Union last Friday night, : ·1 ,· . · Al.fred lost to R.P.I. by four points on Saturday. And on that Friday The game in TrQy tomorrow night Hamilton lm;t to R.P.I. by . night marks the 56th meeting be- four points, defeating the Dutch- • tween Union and R.P.I. basketball men the next night. By those com- ·teams since the series was inaugu- parative scores Union will not be a rated in 1899. Counting the game top heavy favoriate at Troy. How- played last December, Union has ever, playing heavily in their favor won 4 o of the contests to R.P.I · 5 is the factor of their fast improv- 15 . In scoring, the computation:: ing play, and the scoring power :bring the two teams a bit closer they uncovered last weekend. :with the Dutchmen holding the Wysocki, Ja]{abowski, Sick :lead, 1.758 points to the Engineer's Jakabowski and ·Wysocki have :1.437. The highest score chalked been sick a!l week, upsetting Nels' :up by a Union team was in '33 when plans for intensive practice and , it won 66 to 11, while one of the scrimmage this· week. With the loss , Engineers' highest was 49 points of these men he was unable to get ·rung up in '37. H Gid them :ittle his entire squad together, a factor .good as Dave Miller sunk a foul which may hurt the team's play on in an overtime period to give Union Saturday night. the game, 50 to 49. R. P.I.'s real Wysocki has recovered and wm high came way back in '08 when be on hand for the game. Jakabow- they ran rampant for a 72 to 9 ski's 'Status is still uncertain, and victory. if he is not in condition to play, Nitchman has indicated he will stat t Ronnie Macomber in his po- sition at forward. The remainder of the lineup will find Mickey Rath- lev at center, and Paul Santee and AI Turchick at the guard slots. Bob Carnright, sophomore shar.pshoot- er, will pair up with either Jaka- bowski or Macomber at forward. . R. P. I. Lost One R.P.I. has only lost one game this year, that to Stevens Tech by a 42 to 41 score. Their offensive, which baffled the Dutchmen, has led them to victories over Hamil- ton, AJ.bany State, Norwich, Brook- lyn Poly, and Alfred. The Engi- neers boast a veteran team, work- ing pivot plays and a weaving of- fense t;, >:et up their fast breaking offense. Leading R.P.I. will be Rusty Carmen, forward, and center Bill Coleman, who between them scor- ed 27 of their team's 33 points in the first meeting of the two teams in December. Bert Hawkes, whose forte is retrieving shots off the backboard, as well as layup shots, will pair up with Carmen at for- word. Fran Mueller and Chick Kneuble will be at the guard posi- tions. Freshman vs. R. P. I. AI Ciampa's freshman basketball team will be out for revenge for that early season defeat handed them by the R.P.I. yearlings when they travel over to Troy tomorrow night. The .'!Core of the first game, played on the Union court, was 46 to 35. * * On Wednesday of this week, the Army hockey team defeated Hamil- ton, 4 to 3, as the Cadets scored a goal in an overtime period at West Point. The Dutchmen beat Arm;,· on the same rink, yet lost to Hamil- ton. Pt·oving what? The existence of a jinx, or the advantage Ham- ilton holds in playing on its own odd shaped rink. As we don't be- lieve in the supernatural, we'll d·is- count the first, and. add to the last the possibility that Hamilton was .playing over its head, as they do against us. * * Against Muhlenberg recently, Le- high ran up a 21 to 2 lead in the middle of the first period of their basketball game. By the half how- ( Continued on Page 4) SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper, One Step frorr State Stree1 :! lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Jlllllllllll Ill !: ~ It's the § ~ KELLY FACTORY ~ ~ for the Best a a in Smart Clothes a ~ At Prices i §You Can Afford to Pay§ - - ~ Featuring Authentically ~ :; Styled University Clothes : = = - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1941 Varsity Hockey Squad Reading left to rigllt: Keough, mgr., Coach Lawrence, Hastings, Capt. Holmes, Baker, WikOff, Keppler, Ralph, May and Panoff. Wittner Announces 29 Hockey Awards Profes.=or J. Harold Wittner, Di- rector of Athletics, announced yes- terday the names of twenty-one Garnet hoc.key players to receive awards. The nine Diayet s who received 1 \hUt\ lette1s were Robert K. Bak- er, William J. Hal'tt, Bradford T. Hastings, Dudley Holmes, Karl F. Keppler, Robert Panoff, Fred Wik- off, and Manager James J. Keough. James C. Pinkston and Kendrick W. Ralph received minor \aUa\ awards. The ten freshmen who received £ets of class numerals were Am-er- ica Abbruzzese, Rufus Burlingame, Stephen Clarke, Robert Merrill, Joseph Quinn, Bruno Shulze, Ar- thur Sheehy, H. Brett Smithers, Roland A. Will and Harold H. Wil- liams. Bellevue Cj)uality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 B~EAD - ROLLS - PASTRY Rathlev, Turchick Lead In Basketball Scoring Despite their scoring rampage last weekend, Co-Captain AI Tm·chick and \Whitey\ earn- right still trail Co-Ca·ptain Mickey Rathlev in the basketball scoring derby, with three games to go. Rathlev built up a big lead earlier in the sea~:on and still holds first place with 64 points, followed by Turchick with 59 and Carnright with 54. The squad standings for the first eight games are: FG F T Rathlev . . . . . . . . 21 22 64 UP TO DATE STYLES $7;50 up Collegiate Fit PATTON & HALL 245 State St. WHY IS ARROW OXFORD THE MOST COMFORTABLE SHiRT? F IRST, it is Sanforized-Shrunk and will never shrink out of perfect fit. (Fabric shrinkage less than 1%!) Second, it is Mitoga-cut-shaped the way a man is built! Third, its perfectly tailored Arrow collar al· ways sits right on your neck, Arrow Gordon, fine oxford, white and col· ors, $2. Since the opening game, how- ever, the yearlings have improved a lot and according to Coach Ciampa, they have a good chance of winning tomorrow night on the Troy court, and if they could work in enough practice they would have little trouble in defeating the En- gineers. Ciampa indicated that his lineup for the game will be the same as he has used all season with Clowe and Allen at the guard positions and Doug DeWeese at center. The forwards will prob- =· New Arrow Spring ties, $1 and $1.50. HERE IT lSI BUGLE CALL RAG and ONE O'CLOCK JUMP by The Mett•onome All-Star Band including T. Dcrsey, B. Goodman, C. Basie and others 0 Miller Does It Again- SONG OF THE VOLGA . BOATMEN - - - - - - - KELLY CLOTHES INC. CASSEDY PIANO CO. 621 River St., Troy : ~2 BI-oclts North M Hoosick St.§ ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli~ 460 State St. Neal' Proctors Swimmers Rochester Meet Home Rochester's swimming team in- vades the Foote Memorial Puul to- morrow in searc:t o·;: its fourth vic- tot y, while the Dutchmen will be spla.sliling after tlileir first win of the season. Conquerors of Colgate .and. Buffalo State among other:s, the Yellowjackets have taken to the water in great style this year, losing only to Cornell. Rochestt-r Strong Roche~ter's stl·ength is shown by the fact that in the Buffalo meet Coach Speegle was content to use only sophomore:; in walking off with a 55 to 21 victory. Led by Don 'Miller, stellar backstroker, Doug Jones, star breaststroke!' and Lock- ,man, sophomore sensation in the free style, the upstate team ap- ,pea.rs headed for a banner sea,;on, and Ehould have little trouble in overcoming the Dutchmen. As usual Captain Murphy will be Pinkston, Thompson, Hartt, swimming the 440, out to crack the college record again after break- Turchick ....... 26 7 59 Carnright ...... 24 6 54 Santee ......... 15 9 39 Jakobowski .... 15 6 36 Macomber ...... 9 7 25 Wysocki •• 0 •••• 2 2 6 Products for Better Qualify • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp. FOR Arrow Shirts <Continued on Page 4) BEAUTIES HIT TOWN! I F YOU want to see some patterned shlrts that are real beauties . • . shirts that are absolutely tops in style • • • just drop in today and see our swell new collection of Arrow shirts. $2 up. Dan A. Donahue Clothing 240-242 State Street Open letter to freshmen with nightmares LAST WEEK we got the following frantic note: \Sirs: Every night I dream little imps are drawing . nooses around my neck ••. tighter, tighter, tighter! I'm at my wit's end! What can I do? J. M.\ ... ~ .... ~··· Dear J. M.: Your symptoms are unmistakably those of a man suffering from sttbcicttla stratzgulatio, or what we call quite untech- nically \shrunk collar.\ We prescribe a switch to Arrow shirts-they're Sanforized Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1%). They'll not only relieve the pressurB on your gullet, but also bolster your spirit immeasurably with their good looks. Any Senior could have told you the same. Buy Arrows today. $2 up ARROW SHIRTS A new shirt free if one ever sbrinks ott/ of fit.

Page F<mr Elle·ry Announces Scientifi·c Forum On March21,. 22 \S · v· M \ c1ence 1ews an Conference Subject Planned for College A symposium devoted to the gen- eral subject, \Science Vi'ews Man\ in which some of the country's lead- ing scientists will lead the discus- sion and to which the foremo,;t scientists in college:; and universi- ties and indu:;tri'al. research labora- tories in the New England and Middle Atlantic states are being in- vited. will take place at Union Col- lege on March 21 and 22. Dr. Edward Ellety, profes:;or- emeritus of chemistry at Union Col- lege and national president of the Society of the Sigma Xi, national scienUfic fraternity, announced to- day that the object of the sym- posium is to present man as science views him, in contra-distinction to the moral and religious point of view. The series of addresses and dis- cussions, will include those by Dr. A. J. Cat·lwn. Hixon professor of physiology at the University of ·Chicago; Dr. Bronislaw Malinowski, professor of anthopology at Yale University; Dr. Willi:; H.. Withney, organize!' of the General Electric Company Research Lfl!boratory and now vice-president in charge of re- search; Dr. Kirtly F. Mather, pro- fessor of geology at Harvard Uni- versity; and Dr. Harlow Shapley, Paine professor of astronomy and director of the Harvard Asti·onorni- cal Oboervatory. They will trace the impact of several sciences upon man's •present apprehension of him:oelf and his powers, rather than the ways in which science has merely Imple- mented man. A numbet· of other dis- tinguished scientists are being in- vited to discu:;.s these addresses, and besides these it is expected that about 250 registered members of the conference will al:;o take part in the discussion. The general pub- lic will be invited to attend and hear the program, pa1·t of which will be broadcast. -- ~-~~--o- To The Concordiensis: Seniors intPrested in Civilian Conservation Corps administration or educational work should get in touch with the Placement Bureau. There may be openings in June for subalterns (juniot· officers) in C. C. C. camps. The Boy Scouts of America are interested in men for professional field positions. General require- ments for these positions include previous experience in Scouting, graduation from college, and fhe actual demonstration of leadershi.p and administrative ability in. col- lege and civic activitiPS. Seniors intet·ested in further information should get in touch with the PlacP- ment Bureau. ~- u~---- HELI'~N OTT TO GIVE RECITAL Miss Helen Ott, soprano, will re- place Dr. Tidmar\h in the weekly organ recital, this Sunday at 4 o'clock in the Memorial Chapel. UNION MEN Be completely well groomed Get a Haircut - ACME BARBER SHOP \\'here SerVIl'e is a l'leW>uie 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 MUSICAL AMERICANA e WHEN DAY IS DONE e RHAPSODY IN BLUE e MOOD INDIGO •.• and others. A supreme album played by Raymond Paige and His 60 Piece Orchestra can be yours on Victor Records. I Album G-2.8-,-0nly $3.50 · , at C'fue++ & Sons ·· '202 STATE st.· · · THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1941 SPORTS SLANTS (Continued from Page 3) Glee Club To Sing In Annual Concert (Continued from Page 1) nokov's \Salvation Belonged Our God.'' ever, Mub!lenberg nearly closed the gap as the score read 32 to 30. The to final score, 47 to 45, Lehigh on the short end. They will ·continue with \Im- mortal, Invisible\ by Thiman, \As Torrents in Summer\ by Sir Ed- ward Elgar, \While by My Sheep\ a traditional 17th century tune and the spiritual \Steal Away.'' Dr. Tidmarsh wH! close the sel'vice with \Andante from the String Quat·tet\ by Debussy, \Softly Now the Light of Day\ a hymn tum>, \EvPnsong\ by Rchu- mann and the \Toccata\ from the fifth symphony of Widor. The group will be directed by Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. Paul Best. '41, and Kenneth Mackenzie, '41, are co-leaders. Edm·und G. Kelly:, '41 is business manager. Be- sides those three, the following students wil'i accompany them on the trip: Glt>P Club MPmbers First Tenors: Elliott Hertzma1 k, Robert Horstmann, Amasa How- land, Kenneth Mackenzie, Abraham Molyneaux, Glen Morris and Ed- ward Sc·hulze. Second Tenors: Alexander Arony, Edward Fliegel, Robert Frelic·k, Charles Gould. John Poole, Clair Smith, Dona'ld Stevens and Norman Vivian. Second Basses: Fred Brand, Rob- ert Fonest, Harold C. Joslin, Ed- mund Kelly, Louis Loeb, Edward Miller, M. Whitridge Raymond, John ·Shaw and Philip Westla!{e. Baritones: Paul Best, Geo·rge Coley, Thomas DPmpster, William John- son. Her·!:- l t Smith. William Still- man, Clarence Woodward and Wal- ter Thiessen. ---·0--- Howard. Editorialist, Predicts Ou·n Death <·Continued from Page ll aging editor. and two years later he joined the old :St. Louis Hepublic as a feature writer, sports expert and conducto1· of the famed \Whatya- macallem\ column. He served· the St. Louis .Post-Dispatch briefly, then wrote editorials for three years fo.r the Daily Okla·homan in Oklahoma City. Mr. Howard re- turned to the St. Louis Post-Dis- patch as editorial writer on May 6, 1919, at the invitation of George S. Johns, and served in this capacity until 1his death, despite his severe heart ailment during the past months. He would have been 70 years old on May 13. He was born in North Btookf.ield. Ma~s. Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 We quote the University of Roch- ester student newspaper, \The Cam,pus\: \Coach Dudley S. De- Groot asserted last Wednesday evening in an address before the Associated Rohester Alumni at which members of the varsity foot- baH team were honored, that 'YoM alumni must be the backbone of a recruiting squad, shall we ~ay, to bring good foobball materia'! to Rochester.'\. Interesting e11uugh is the fact that this year's Rochester team turned in the worst record ever made ·by a DeGroot coached team, as DeGt·ott admitted. Be urged the football team to put foot- ball on a year round basis, which he calls the old traditional way of looking at football, and which this corner calls the old professiona:l way. Following DeGroot, Raymond G. Phillips presented the Phi'llips Award .for the most impt•oved play- er on the squad to Tom Frawley, and remarked, \Give me a good fDotb.all team and a good ban.! and the Phi Beta Kappa keys will take care of themselves.\ * * * And so we come to the end of this column, as well as the end of our term as sports editor. W·e've had fun at our job, as. well as a lot of trouble at times to find copy to fill this page. And trouble too, to hit a happy balance with the ad- verti~ing department. We appre- ciate the cooperation received f1·om the Athletic Department and thank them for their help. We've made er- ror~ we realize, witness the exclu- sion of the preview on the Army hockey game and its \poor\ cover- age, all of which we are truly sorry for and apologize. Jack Pearson is the heir to all that, and to him the best of luck. We've worked with him all year and we know he can fill our shoes more than once over. To Nels, Art, AI and the rest of the coaching staff, and their teams to come, the best of luck and continued suc- cess. To Hal who has done a bang- up job as athletic director, con- gratulations. And to the student body-support the teams. J.D.P. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUk MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction .. • 598 B'way- For Better Values \ f'tll :: I ij f JAMES RESTAURANT 426 STATE STREET We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests CAFFERS COAL COKE FUEL OIL Call 4-3354 GAZETTE PRESS Swimmers Oppose Rochester at Home cContinued from Page 3) First Base ball Practice Today Battery candidates .for the. 1941 baseball team reported to Coach Art Lawrence today to begin a bit of pt·eliminary practice before the outfielders and infielders begin their period of training. Lawrence has caJ:led his .pitchers early to get them in shape for the southern tra:ining trip during the spring vacation. Intra murals Bowling standings through Feb- rl!lary 6: Eastern League W L Delta Upsilon .. .. .. .. .. . .. 8 1 Alpha Phi Delta ......... , 10 2 Phi Sigma Delta . . . . . . . . . . 6 3 Chi Psi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 4 Ps.t Ulsiion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 6 Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . 1 11 Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 9 National League ing it in the R.P.I. meet. Ed Keers, Art LaRoche and Bob Reed will be swimming the sprints along with BiH Wi'lkin, who took the only fi•rst place against Trinity on Tuesday. Hal Hendrickson will be swim- ming in the breaststro'lte with Bill Massee and possibly Art LaRoche in the backstroke. Burt Payne wm be doing the diving and Bob Mol- loy and Len Benjamin filling in the distance and sprint events. Lawrence is completiNg a sched- W L Swimming again:ot Trinity Col- lege at Hartfoi·d orr Tuesday after- noon Bill Wilkin, star sophomore sprinter, won the only first place for Union as the Dutchmen suffer- ed their third con:oecutive loss of the season by a 59 to 16 score. l!lle of four games to be played on Beta Thet Pi . . . . .. . . • . . . . . . 9 3 the tri.p, mostly with teams in Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 3 Pennsylvania and Maryland. This South College . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 3 is the first time in some years Kappi Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 7 that such a training trip has been ·Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . 2 10 taken considered. The idea is. a Theta Delta Cht . . . . . . . . . . 2 10 good one, in · that most of the Dutchmen's opponents go south for American League ---a--- Union Men Lead Forums At Sage SCD Meeting (Continued from Page 1) ican Democracy.\ FoHowing the speech, the sixteen men .attended the several discus:oion groups on the RusseU Sage campus in which they acted as co-leaders on the general subject of \Our Unfolding Democracy.\ The pmgram at Russell Sage College was in charge of George William Smith, professor of speech, Miss Jean Nothnagle, '41, editor- in-chief of the \Rus:oell Sage Quill,\ Miss Lucienne Prosser, '41, pre:oi- dent of Student Government, and Miss Elizabeth Kohnstamrn, '42, chairman of the Russell Sage chap- ter of the Student Committee for Democracy. Among the Union men who at- tended the meeting were: Richard Balch, '41; John Lewis, '41; Clar- ence McCain, '41; Paul Becker, '41; Dickinson Griffith, '41; Robert Hay- ner, '43; John Barton, '44; Boyd Golder, '41; Donald Hudson, '42; Alexander Arony, 42; William Birdsall, '42; Edward Fisher, '42; William Coates, '42; Roger Mar- shall, '41; Armand Feigenbaum, '42, and Laskar Schwartz, '41. • pre-season preparation and hit mid-season form in their opeing games. Coach Lawrence is faced with the problem of filling large holes in his nine this year, due to the loss of such sluggers as Brock- ner, Patrie and Palmer through graduation. The pitching staff was hard hit also with the graduation of Mould, Hanson and Robinson, three stellar hurlers. However, Lawrence has a group of good veterans on deck for the season. Captain Mickey Rathlev, AI Turchick and Neid Aeilly are back for infield duty, with Earl Raif- stanger and Moe Weintraub in the outfield. Last season's undefeated freshman team should provide plenty of good material. In the pitching department, Lawrence has but two veterans on deck, Roger Moran and Mike Fies- ter who will bear the burden this year. From the freshman team he will have Bob Lee and Don Gei- sel, who did all the mound work for the yearlings, along with Dutch- er and Cummings. For catchers, Toby Champl·in, who caught for the yearlings. A possibility is that AI Turchick will be converted to a catcher, a chore at which he has had some experience. W L Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 2 Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . 7 5 Neutrals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 6 Phi Delta Theta . . . . .. . . .. 6 6 Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 8 Kappa Nu ................ 3 9 Bowling Schedule February 19, Wednesday-Chi Psi vs. Delta Up::ilon; Psi Upsilon vs. Alpha Phi Delta. February 20, Thursday-Chi Psi vs. Psi Upsilon; Phi Sigma Delta vs. Delta Upsilon. Note: Kappa Alpha forfeits to both Alpha Delta Phi and Phi Sigma Delta. ----·0--- BASKETBALL CONTESTS Basketball \21\ matches are to be completed by Saturday after- noon, Febr·uary 15. Foul shooters are requested to come to the gymnasium between 12:30 and 1:30 p. m. to compete. Fraternities will be assigned spe- cific days on which they are to ap- pear. ----0---- McALLISTER PLEDGED Alpha Delta Phi Fraternity has announced the pledging of Herbert T. McAllister, '44, of Albany. • Smokers know ... hesterflelds • at1s WITH THEIR MILDER, BETTER TASTE Do you know why Chest· erfield gives you more pleasure? Because it's the smoker's cigarette .•. it has everything a smoker wants •.. Real Mildness and Cooler, Better Taste. Chesterfields are better-tasting and mild .•. not flat ••. not strong, because of their right combina- tion of the world's best cigarette tobaccos. You can't buy a better cigarette. Copyright 1941, LJGGETI & MYERS ToBACCO Co. starring in the current Paramount hit \THE MAD DOCTOR\ ... and ~rom CHESTERFIELD, 1heMilder Cooler, Bet· ·1er-Tasting cigarette. z. = y, ~ A Fe F Ru; fot• as tiOl Sa~ cha me: ~ rna a c cip; cas as gra stu p Un las· mo 1\. St1; hru: Ski the to un·i pat grE I of Sk' ly pie gr< ye< Un wil pre ( jec for fir: br< ter for wa wil mi Ar lia: an• '] ra.c ser ica 1 Ge Sp COl tiv at nir \T ga ca1 w. WO bee ag< fer c Tc wi th• so ha Ri ch gu Sk ur Sk ot: I.C ed on Ol:' h\L tic ab ar a tn pa

L 1 2 3 4 6 11 9 L 3 3 3 7 10 10 L 2 5 6 6 8 9 Psi vs. Psi vs. to Phi to to ap- has E d t· • Council Outing Club Meets Entertains Tomorrow I. 0. C. A. Z-511 Vol. LXIV., No. 33 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y .. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1941 PRICE FIVE CENTS ==========================~==============~============~~-==-~----------~====================~==~~~------ Women's Colleges Announce Plans For S(D Prog~ra;m Russell Sage. Skidmore To Continue Activity; British Aid Is Theme Participation in activities of th~> R1:1ssell Sage Student Committee. for Democracy has been approved as a \skill\ in the modified Na- tional Defense program of Russell Sage, officers of the Union College chapter who originated the move- ment learned today. Miss Elizabeth Kohnstamm, chair- man of ·the Sage group, has issued a call for stuclents who wiii parti- cipate in a series of forum broad- casts from Troy and Schenectady as part of the Russell .Sage pro- gram in the four-college program of student democracy promotion. A college-wide forum in which 16 Unieln U,ndergraduates participated last Thursday evening was the first move of the Troy group. Skidm(}re Concert Meantime, the Skidmore 'College Student Committee for Democracy has arranged for a concert of t-he Skidmore Chorus on March 20 in the Town Hall in New York City to raise money for a mobile kitchen unit for Britain. The concert is part of the all-college defense pro- gram at Saratoga. In line with its assigned activity of raising money for war relief, the Skidmore group has also tentative- ly scheduled an \information please\ program. A similar pro- gram netted more than $100 'last year. Students and· faculty from Union, Russell Sage, and R. P. I. will be invited to the entertainment progra.m to confer. Other Skidmore democracy pro- jects some of which are still in the formative stage are: a course in first a:id; assembly speakers; a li- brary collection to be sent to in- terned prisoners of war; knitting for British relief; and collection of waste paper, the proceeds of which will be given to war relief. R. P. I. to Broad·cast Skidmore's branch of the com- mittee is headed by Miss Lucy Jane Armstrong. Miss Margaret Wil- liams is corresponding secretary and Miss Doris Sands is secretary. The R.P.I. committee for democ- racy is expected to announce a series of broadcasts to South Amer- ica within the next few days. A letter has been received from George William Smith, professor of Speech at Russell .Sage College, commending the Union representa- tives w,ho participatde in the forum at Russell Sage last Thursday eve- ning. The letter reads: \To the Student Committee for Democracy: \They are all raving about your gang. You did a grand job. Now can you come back next Thursday? We want a repeat engagement and would like to have the same gang because Dr. McMurray win speak again and he thinks this speech of- fers a better chance for discussion.\ Yours, George William Smith ----0,---- Outing Club to Be Host To Skiers at Skiha ben The Union College Outing Club will play host to the members of the Intercollegiate Outing Club As- sociation. this weekend at Ski- haben, the club's cabin at North River, N. Y., William Kruesi, '42, chairman announced this week. Krueoi 'said that more than sixty guests are expected to arrive at Skihaben between Friday and Sat- urday noon. Such colleges as R.P.I., Skidmore, Vassar, Williams and other members clubs of the I.O.C.A. will be represented. An unusual feature will be add- ed for the amusement of the guests on Sunday, when skiing will be the order of the day. A ski treasure hunt will be held, with each par- ticipant searching for clues hidden about the region. Everyone, upon arriving. at the cabin, will be given a ticket entitling him to enter the trea:mre hunt, sponsored by the ski patrol. Terpsichore Beckons Patrons of the Dance 'l'he fate of Union College par ticipation in a Skidmore College dancing class still hangs in deli- · cate balance, Dickinson E. Grif- fith, Jr., said today. Griffith, as pre<ident of the Student Coun- cil, was asked to corral a num- ber of Union men for the pro- jected adventures with Terp- sichore. larry Audette's Student Vote in Orchestra Signed That Strugg~le Is First War P·oll Not Considered Union Shows a:t Wholely European By Class Of 1944 1 --~R~=r~-:F~~~-~:R~=~~--~·~;~:--- Special Bus Chartered : By Freshman to Bring Dates from Skidmore 1. Do you believe that the war in Europe is essentiaiiy a Euro-. pean war with little relation to the future of Dem<Jcracy in the United States? 1. Yes No. 1941 14 52 1942 15 79 1943 25 90 1944 21 85 Total 75 306 A m1mber of Skidmore girls, it is said, would learn to dance. But to accomplish this laudable end·eavor, they m-ust have part- ners. Union men, con~equently, have been invited to partake at a breathtakingly low price. Line forms on the right, gentlemen! Cast Chosen For Radio Workshop Larry Audette and his Orchestra wHl provide the music for the Freshman Dance on March 1, it was announced yesterday by the dance c·cmmittee. Aucette has taken over the leadership of Freddie Bellinger's band, which played at the first Sophomore Dance, held last year by the class of 1942. An unusual feature of the Fresh- man Dance will be the charte1• of a special bus from Saratoga to trans- port Skidmore dates to the dance. The time of t•he departure has not yet been set. The committee in charge of the bus is polling inter- ested freshmen to discover how many wish to have the bus arrive ln time fm· dinner on the evening of the dance. All freshmen interested in reserving places for their dates on the Skidmore bus should see either Richard Mackenzie, 11 N. S. N. C. or John Barton, Phi Gamma Delta . Z. Do you approve of a declaration of war by the United States on the Axis powers? (a) under no circumstances lb) if there are strong indications of an Axis victory in Europe lc) as soon as Britain asks for manpower (d) if invasion of any part of the West- ern hemisphere seems imminent. 2. 1941 1942 1943 1944 TotaJ: (a) 16 9 19 9 53 (b) 15 20 15 19 68 (C) 3 7 9 6 25 (d) 32 58 69 74 233 Dramatic Skit to Be Produced; Radio Club Begins Experiments 3. Do you think the Lease-Lend Bill, if passed, will increase the possibility of complete and formal American participation in the war? Fraternity Representatives Radio activity on the Union cam- pus moved forward on two fronts this week as the Radio Workshop announced the final casting of the Etudents in its WGY production for Friday night and the Radio Club ind-icated that it had begun its experiments on the methods of The Committee for the affair will transmission possible for a campus be assisted by a corps of fraternity network. •·epresentatives, the dance commit- The Radio W·orkshop's produc- tee announced. These men will also tion will go on WGY at 10:30 Fri- sell tickets to the freshmen in their day night. The g.roup will present respective fraternities. The list is \Jedediah Peck,\ a 15-minute dra- as follows: Alpha Delta Phi, Abra- matic skit which concerns itself ham Molyneaux; Chi Psi, Holt with the re-Eistance of American Sturges; Phi Gamma Delta, John patriots in 1799 to the Sedition Act Barton; Delta Upsilon, John Clowe; passed by the Federalist congress. Delta Chi, Robert Heywood; Beta The production is in rehearsal this Theta Pi, Paul Myers; Kappa Sig- week under the direction of Ken- rna, Sherwood Granier; Sigma Phi, neth Powell of the WGY staff. Peter Sharpe; Sigma Chi, Robert Cast of Play Rolfe; Kappa Nu, Marvin Cramer; The title role of Jedediah Peclr Phi Sigma Delta, Seymour Thick- is played by Stanley Green '43. man; Phi Delta Theta, Edward J. Peck, against the opposition of an Beargeon; Theta Delta Chi, Robert 3. Yes No 1941 43 25 4. Would the total 19;12 65 18 1943 77 33 1944 82 22 Total 264 99 defeat of Britain precipitate an immediate mili- tary attack against the Un,ited States? 4. 1941 194,2 1943 1944 Total Yes 9 6 11 12 38 No 56 84 100 95 335 5. Do you believe that providing Britain with war materials strips our own defenses and is, therefore, undesirable? 5. Yes No 1941 17 42 19;12 23 64 1943 30 83 1944 36 70 Total 105 264 'Success' The Word For Glee Club's Annual Metropolitan Concert Tour E d s Zell; Psi Upsilon, Donald Beal; Al- Aristocrat, played by lwco tarn M'l Ph' Not many of the college commu-\'•>-------- ' · · 1 t' t' pha Phi Delta, Nick 1 on; 1 ~ - 44, succeeds tn c1rcu a mg a pe 1 \ · h nity are, as a rule, \up and doing\ · h 'd '\ f Sigma Kappa, James E. Sm1t . twn among t e re~r en<.l: o upper at five o'clock in the morning! New York State. Playing the parts ---o--- Nevertheless, it was shortly after of late eighteenth century Ameri- C \tt R + that time Friday • morning that can farmers are Samuel Portnoy OMmJ eeS ep0r twenty-nine members of the Glee '42, Arthur Pastore '44, and Donald I Club left the campus by bus for Green '41. Myron Mills '42, plays T 0 Student Counci New York City. The 0CCa..5ion was, the part of Thomas J·effe!'son, un- of course, the annual Glee Club der whose administration. the act h trip to the Metropolitan area for a was repealed. Granger Tripp '43, Put Campus C ·est series of concerts, a trip which is will act as narrator. The one B L t V t t always the high spot of the Club's feminine role in the play has yet y- aws 0 0 e a yearly schedule. to be cast. February Meeting First stop on the three day tour Donald Eldred '42, president of was the appear·ance at Jamaica the Radio Club, said yesterday that The Student Council will hear a High School, Jamaica, Long Island, the club ha:o begun its experiments f b 1 f th where a packed auditorium listen- on the radio frequency sy·stem of proposed set 0 y-aws or e op- transmission which might be used eration of future Campus Chest ed attentively as the troupe :;ang. d · es d1'ocuos the quest1'on of stu Immediatebc after the concert, for a campus- radio network. The r 1 v · ' • - ' dent sponsorship for the Union- which took place upon the club's other possible method of transmis- h p t' d arr1'val at one o'clock th U · sron, audio frequency, will be test- SkidJ?ore Fres man ar res, an · , e mon ed if the radio frequehcy tests do 1 appomt two member~ of ~he class men were entertained at a tea- not yield .-atisfactory reoults. of 1944 to the ~ounc!l at 1ts meet- dance at the high school. Needle~s Eldred said that these tests will in~ t_omorrow m.g~t m Old C~apel, to say, many of the above-mention- have to be confined to the Electri- D1Cktns'on E .. Grt~rth, Jr., presrdent ed Union men availed themselves cal Engineering building until the of th.e cou~crl sard yesterd.ay. T~e of this opportunity to broaden club can procure enough transmis- meetm~ w1~l be ~eld a~\ 7 .00\ :p , . their field of acquaintance among sion line to set up a receiving sta- to ~vo~d, ms?fa1 as lo poos1ble, the fair members of the Queen stu- tion in some other building. In the conflrctmg :-vrth the basketball dent body. Even Dr. Tidmarsh, we tests which have been carried on game that mght. are toLd, drew considerable enjoy- so far, the Radio Club men set up Committee to Report ment from this brief sojourn in Jamaica. their receiving station in a nearby Boyd Golder 41, and Cecil Angell The climax of the trip was reach- room in the Electrical Engineer- '41, will present a report on their ed on Friday evening when the ing building. investigations as a comm·ittee ot club sang before mo1·e than 300 ----o two into the feasibility of student sons of Old Union at the Hotel Am- Carl Faille to Lecture. Exhibit Paintings Here support of the Union-Skidmore bas<ador in New York. The entire parties. It has been suggested that program was very well received the student body should support by the audience, and many of the the affair~ and take care of the ar- Bingers have since expressed their The American AsEociation of 1 angements, relieving the admin- belief that this was the best con- University Women is sponsoring istrations of the two colleges of cert the Club has given in Old New an art exhibit in Hanna Hall from this task. The council will vote on York in many a moon. The very Thursday through Tueoda~·. The its acceptance Olf -the committee tim<'ly English group, which be- paintings are those of Carl Faille, report and discuss further action gins the club's program, had more noted artist, who has specialized on- this matter. than the ordinary ring to it, antl in mountain paintings. On Wednes- The purpo;c of the by-laws which this fine spirit prevailed through- day afternoon in the Old Chapel will be for adoption by .future out the remaining number>'. The he will give a lecture on \; campus che>t committees is to put Union motif was cal'l'ied thr0ugh· tain Trails with an Artist.' the movement on a more definite to the end, when F. Michler 1 Bo) Miss Cecile Harrison is president ba.,.is, Griffith said yesterday. Bishop, '24, chairman of the of the organization. On Wednes- \Formerly he said, \the campus Alumni Committee in charge of .the day afternoon there will be a re- chest has merely been planned as concert, directed the club in its tra- ception. for the vi~iting artist in it went along. These by-laws have ditional finale of the Union College Hanna Hall. During his visit Mr. been designed to put the move- Medley. Dancing after the concert Faille will be the house guest of ment on firmer footing for future was enjoyed by the Club. Dr. and Mrs. Walter C. Langsam. years.\ The Glee Club's broadcast at All students are invited to visit The council will also be asked eleven o'clocl' the next morning the exhibit and lecture. The hours 1 to approve the action of the execu- was made f rom the National of the exhibit are: Thursday, 1:00- tive committee in its last two Broadcatsing Company's studios in 2:30, 4:30-6:00; Friday, 1:00-2:30, meetings. These actions included I New York, and was carried over 4:30-6;00; Saturday, 1:00-6:00; Sun-\ the approval of the selection of Station WEAF, and other stations day, 3:00-6:00; Monday, 1:00-~:00, the Junior Prom executive com- of the NBC Red Network. Despite 5:00-6:00; Tuesday, 1:00-2.:30; 4;30-ll mittee and the recognition of the current radio rel'trictions on vocal 6:00. Freshman and Sophomore Dances. selections, the group did present four of the mose popular number used during the year by the College Choir. Dr. Tidmarsh was very well pleased with these selections, al- though the club's regular accom- panist had to give way t oa union musician at the piano. Members of the club Epent the rest of the day according to their respective interests. About ten of them, with Dr. Tidmarsh, attended the Metropolitan Opera's produc- tion. of \Madame Butterfly\ in the evening, while other were enter- tained in slightly more common, but none the less enjoyable pur- suits. On Sunday, the group sang in two churches, the Hitchcock Me- morial Chapel, in Scarsda-le in the morning, and the First Presbyter- ian Church in Pas.saic, N. J., in the afternoon. Members of the Scarsdale church entertained the Club at dinner Sunday noon, and they were entertained at supper in the evening at the home of Ed- mund Kelloy, '41, manager of the Glee Club, in Passaic. The long trek homeward cul- minated in the arrival of 29 \tired but happy\ singers at Union C<Jl- lege about 1 a.m. MQnday morning. 0---- Mcllwaine Chairman of Hale House Committee The formation of a Hale House committee initiated in an effort to promote relations between the Ad· ministration and Hale House diners, has been announced by President Fox. Theodore R. Mcllwaine, Al'sist- ant Comptroller, has been appoint- ed chairman of the committee. As- '43, James Stillman. '43, Herbert W. sisting him are Robert C. Miller Gost '43, Alexander Somerville '43, and Robert Rodgers '43. The purpose of the committee, according ·to Mr. Mcilwaine, i:; to \create a liason\ between students dining at Hale House and the m.an- . agement. Efforts will be made to reform any present undesirable conditions. Any of the committee members will be glad to receive recommendations or suggestions relative lo the Hale Hou~e dining service. Faculty Men Comment On Survey•s Meaning Upon Hearing Results The tabulations at the left are the totals for .the survey which the International Relations Club con- ducted in daily assembly this morn- ing. This is the first time in the his- tory of the college that a poll has been taken of student opinion on a world situation simila·r to the pres- ent one. Dr. Waldron recalls that during the first world war there was no such poll and that student opinion then was not stimulated until the United States entered the war. Faeulty Comment Below are the comments of two mem·bers o.f the faculty in regard to the signi·ficance of the results. Dr. Joseph D. Doty- When ·one looks at the answers to questions number 5 and 3 one is impressed by the illogicality of thought in general on the subject. On the other hand the larger votes in numbers 1, 4, and 5 suggest that in spite of logic most members of the college have their minds clearly made up. In general I consider this to .be a most interesting poll. One interesting observation aris- ing is that whereas last November the college was predominantly Re- publican in sympathy, now In all but the answer to number 3, the sympathy of the college is strongly with the administration point of view. Dr. Pllilip Stanley- These assertions seem consistent with the general body of assertions uotside the college walls, and indi- cate that student opinion here at least, is not running counter to gen- eral opinion-as is so often be- lieved. What these opinions or assertions \really mean\ beyond the date Feb. 18, 1941 is not clear. That any one of them may not be different to- morrow is not assured. As predic- tions of future action I should not regard them as especially signifi- cant. Just what anyone's predict- able action would be in case Britain fell suddenly, I do not think can ·be foreseen. The1·e are certain inconsistencies in these assertions-especially the reluctance to declare war coupled with the feeling that aid to Britain furthers that possibility, plus no firm objection to such aid. These inconsistencies, however, seem to be generally shared by people outside the college. Question five is unfair in ·that it does not permit the ~:!Cpression of the opinion that aid .to Britain might be undesirable., even though it does not impair our own \de- fence\ effort. ----01---- NEWS IN BRIEF Listeners Favor Union Letters from the radio audience which heard the Union College de- baters meet Columbia in a discus- sion on February 1 showed a ratio of 2 to 1 in favor of Union, accord- ing to a letter from Leonard Gold- stein, Manager of Debate for Co- lum-bia, received this week by John A. Ruskowski, '41, Union's debate manager. Bonuses Given to Waiters N. Waddell Cease, manager of Hale House, today announced the presentation of bonuses to seven student waiters who had kept high Dean's List scholarship ratings during the semester of the aca- demJc year while earning their full boa I'd. About 2!! undergraduates are emplo~\ed in Hale House, receivitf'g full board amounting to about $270 per year for waiting an average of 2-3 hours a day. Bonus winners were: Warren Kimrn,ey, John E. Greene, Harold V. Hendriclrson, George H. Aru:ler- son, Richard F. Hoffman, Charles W. Thurston, and James E. Smith. Each of these waiters received a five dollar scholarship reward.

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1941 arournr FOI.:!\DED 1877 \.-1 Causa Persa Parole .-lssai'' \'M.-:e-m-.b __ e,.,r,..-o\'f\\t~h--e-:-A-s-so:-:c~ia::-:t:-:.e•d-:-Collegtate l-'re~s atnt <Ji,t!t~iltut: -of the Cu•· leglate Dtgesi. The official newspa-per of the students uf lJlltull Cu!le;;e. l'ubltslted Tue~· day and fo'ridays throughout the culle;;c ) car. Editorial Uooms, Silliman Hull, Cniun C'ullege Campus. Televholle, Schenectady, 4-0133. Publleatlon Office, The Uazli!tte Press, :lH :State St, SL'ilene<:tady, ~. Y., Telephone 4-4141 _______ _ Entered at the Schenectad)' Post Uffil:e as :Sel'Oild Class :llutl :\latter. ·subscription price Fi~·e cents a copy; $:l.UU a ~ear; deltvereclail~-;-where in the United Stutes. St>niOI' Board Armand \'. FPigPnbaum ........................... Editor-in-ChiPf Kappa ='u Hnu:--t•· ·1-7:tH Laskar Schwartz ............................... Business Manager Kappa :\-u llnu~t· 1-7:~:n Solomon Blechman ........ _ .................... Managing Editor ;i }1 \lldlt· ~,.,·Ut ll\, .'\cJrt'li l't 11lt~gt' ti·!l~llili Samut>l J•ortnoy. . . . . . ........................... AssociatE' Editor Kap11:t. ~u Huus-:t~ ·t-7:tn Jonathan PP.at•son .................................. Sports Editor ~ig-m:t I-'lli L'ial't• 1-ti...,:.!l J. Donald Haigh ............................. Circulation Manager Phi p,.Jt,:\ Thtl.t 1'111u~t- ·1·1~ 11 Junior Board RobPrt Bishop Harvey Fishbone Robert Hayner Thomas O'Connor Granger Tripp ---·---------· ---· --------- Sophomorp Board Thomas Cullen, William Hart, AlbPrt Kronick, Edward Johnson, Arthur Pastore, Seymour Thickman REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers RePresentative 420 MADISON /I.VE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTO!i • LOS ANGELES ' SAN FRANCISCO ISSll•' Editor ............................ , .......... GrangPr Tripp Assistants Harvey Fishbone RobPrt Haynt>r Seymour Thickman Tue:oday, February 18, 1941 THE 65TH RENEWAL To furnish the campus with accurate, thorough, living coverage of the nev;s that is being- made and to help build and sustain campus morale are, we feel, the primary functions of the small college newspaper. It is toward this ideal that the 65th renewal of The Concordiensis' staff will s·trive. We have adopted this broad standard of policy for the reason that it represents, as far as we are able to asce1·tain, the best interests of the student body, that it is flexible and subject to change, and that it does not pretend to g-ive any precise outline of the paths that must he tread from now until February of 1942. These latter paths can onl~· be de- termined by the demands of the future, not by any pre- ordained formula laid down now. If any campus activity must be open to change, that activity is The Concordiensis. NYA Students, First Subjects in 'Union At Work' Series, Discovered Sweeping, Doing Research, Shelving Books, All At 35 cents An Hour The largest, and probably one of ; the most important, group o.f stu-! \Here's the way my work lines One of the most interesting and dents who earn a part of their col- :up,\ our subject went on. \One day instructive NYA jobs we've heard lege expenses by the sweat of their 1 I'll. clean wiadows, an0ther wash about is held by a worker in the 1 re~~. ective bro.ws is that dive1·s col- 1 the walls, anot.her clean the seats I Civil Engiaeering building who as- lectron of undergraduates who }acbor 1 and another the gas hoods. Some- sists Pr.ofessor Warren E. Taylor ; under the sponsors~ip of .the Na- :times I'm lucky enougir to get an .in doing reseaorch work for certain , tiona:! Youth Adnumstrat1on. AI- 'errand to l\lm. That's the best job !engineering courses. This student 'though the. government me~·ely al- 1 of all.\ ·told us enthusiastically about an- dots a certam sum t$10,395 th1s yearl 1 • • • lalyzing stray droplets of water fer ~to be distributed, the ad~inistration i 'I'hls particular worker IS allowed jmaterial for the Water Supply ihas found tasks for Its workers 1 57 hours a month. That means an 1course. Professor Taylor is develop- , which, in most cases, represent val- ,average 0f about two hours a day, ling methods for use in \Engineer- ~ uable services to the college, and. ,but it requires four or five or even ing 39, Water Supply and Sewer- , in some instances, offer the work-' seven hours of wo.rk a day to main- age\ and ·our NYA victim was de- ers an opporlunity to increase the tain that average, with the average :lighted over the opportunity to learn 'sum total of their information. I;\--~~----------------------------- I Although NY A worl,ers, as a 1 , group, have few characteristics in· National Youth Administration Facts: 1 common except thei.r need of nroney, ' 'conversation with a few seemingly Union Collt>ge was granted $10,395 to spend on student pro- . jPcts for this school ye.ar. This p1ermits a monthly payroll of I typical examples sheds some light 1 $1,155. About 12%- of Union's 769 students are employed at 35 . on that bod\ of laborers as a whole. , I J cents an hour. One of the four chemistry labcra- · Of these men, 36 art\ employed in the library, 18 doing desk tory NY A workers, seeing that there · and repair work, 18 doing clerical wo1k 11 men al'e employed in 1 1 was no escape ft·om the barrage of 1 building maintenance, 14 as laboratory worliers and departmental questions, agreed to outline his day 1 assistants. Two studt>nts are pmployed repairing models and ap· 1 for us: \Arrive at the lab at 7 a. m. 1 paratus, six assist tile grounds crew. One student do.e~ luplica.- I Handed broom. Work every free' ting work, eight do resea1·ch, Six men assist Dr. Clowe and Dr. p~ri.od. Ti~e out for a lab class. I' O'RourkP, and two men are employed in recreational leadership. IFm1sh work by 5 P· m. Study at Six students are writers one is assigned miscellaneous tasks I night. Forget activities.\ ·' J ' Most of the men who have been 1 given Chemistry laboratory jobs are !Chemistry student's days off for so much about the subject without !either B. S. in Chemistry students labs. taliing the course. l or other men w-ho are taking I \My boss is Joe Rudmann\ our We took a peek at some un.fath- courses in Chemistt·y. These men, ,first subject concluded, \And you omable <to us) graphs this C. E. our guinea pig told us, don't have lean say that he's a swell fellow .... laboratory worker was making for I much time for any extra-curricular 1 And another thing, I work all my another phase of his work. He ex- adventures except fraternity mem- 1 hours. There·~ .no gypping on my I plained, in words of one syllable, bership. ijob, brother!\ that the graphs indicated how a nice, smooth road can be bunt over a rough terrain. Some of the dirt, it seems, is chopped off the top of one little hill and fills up a nearby little valley. Just how to figure how much of what goes where is a task for the highway surveying course. These charts will be used by Profes- sor Taylor in conducting his c~ass. This man wasn't allowed quite so many hours as our chemistry lab- oratory friend, but he handles two other part-time jobs as well, and is a varsitying athlete. His budgeting of time is a minor miracle, and sometimes he even sleeps. Our third victim in our perusal of the Union c.hapter of NY A was one of the some 18 men employed in the college library, His work is filing government bulletins, state docu- ments, duplicate copies of books and other up-to-the-minute records on the third floor of the giant book- stack. He can work at any time the lib1:ary is o.pen, he said, and adjusts his schedule to his other activities. NYA students replace books on the shelves once one of the customers. has removed it, or help take care of the main desk's flow of business, or do cJe.rical work in the office. Then again there are the rese·arch wo·rkers, as, for instance, the reader of the col- lege's 19th century correspondence. Editor's Note: This is the first of a series of articles on \Union at Work.\ II S C E N E Ill Concordiensis Exchange~ .-------------------··-----------------------·-----. I I f Drama and Art ! To Be Given Away Free Exchanges of The Concordien- Even the higest are sometimes sis dating from :September to the I I ~-·-----------~---------------------------------- suspected and their excuses for cut- middle of Janua1y will be given WeH over a hundred students ting chapel questioned. Take Herb away free of charge to any stu- have vouchsafed their interest in Houghton, who the other day went dent who will call for them be- the special student rate for the to tell the President that he was fore Friday afternoon, The pa- plays coming to the Erie, so that g oing home to marrv his uncle. pers to .be given away include everything now depends on the re- \ the \Skidmore News,\ \Amherst actions of the theatre management Dr. Fox listened, thought a mo- Student\ and others of neighbor- and those eminent gentlemen who ment and then ·quizzed, \Are you ing institutions. book the road companies. Certain sure you aren't going .to •bury your Starting today week-old ex- difficulties have naturally arisen: grandmother?\ changes of The Concordiensis different companies have different With so much news coming fwm will be p•Jaced in the newspaper price scales, one of the plays is Washington these days it's an al- racli of the libraiy. Two separ- only booked temporarily and some most certain conclusion that the I ate groups of papers, twice of the com.pany managers have not national govern,ment is on the aver- wceldy and weeklies, will be answered letters of inquiry which age citizen's mind. Talie the wife available. have been sent to them. No details of a General Electric official who will be .published until all the ar- was showing the campus to an ac- rangements have been made and quaintance interested· in architect- we can distribute tickets. ure and newly come to town. The Corn Is Green This week, a bustling little man \Ah FedPral.\ said thP acquaint- named Faille will open an exhibi- ance, meaning the chapel architec- tion in the Mountebanks Theatre. t UI e. Mr. Faille is interesting and his The title of today's column should exhibition should prove as interest- \Oh no,\ shot back the> other a t 1 d \Th c I more accura e y rea e orn s ing as the man. He plans to hang bit hurt, \the college raised all the G A d A F M p 1 \ reen- n ew ore eop e a group \done realistically\ and an- money itself.\ THE REASON IS THAT we, the other group which he calls \color Bob Connell want.\ us to den:> undHsigned, beg to take odds with symphonies.\ Particularly inter·est- this story which has made the nt !Past two- -stick around there ed in delineation of nature by strik- round of Hale House. Accm ding to I may be more -of the country's top ing colors, Faille also paints for thP tPllers of the talE>, Bob, finishing band leaders, under thP sub head- sharp contras!..':l. By all means Jet's his meal at Pelops, grabbed the fin- ing of \Who Ever Told Band Lead- go and see what he means. The gN-bowl, pickPd it up nnd drainPd Prs ThPy Could Act?\. The two one man show starts on Wednes- it. worst and also most recent of- day. You're all invited and it's free. A faculty man was telling us of his fenders are Bob Crosby who has lately appeared in an opus engag- The Schubert Club is presenting student days at Amherst and pass- M' J w t t It ingl'-' titled \Let's Make Musl'c\ ·ISS ean a son, con ra o, next ed off this story of a near sighted \ k h 1 d t t Sh and Artie Shaw who was even more wee at t e usua stu en ra e. e friend which we could havP sworn recent!\ on dl'splav I'n \Second comes here with a \rave\ set of we'vp heard placed· at half a dozen • \ · f f' t f Chorus\. I make special note of the notices o me pas per ormances. othet· colleges. Anyway the friend I · · h · t' recentness of the crt'mes I'n ordei' n our opmiDn s e IS presen tng a said that he was taking a shower f d h · d 1 h 11 to warn you that this might be a wow o a program an s e IS o ng with the fellow after a andba- new trend. Just imagine seet'ng on the best of contralto solos. game when said fellow bur·st out M' w t 'II 'th with, \God but you're fat.\ a po;:ter in the near future \Tony ISS a son WI appear WI Pasto 1 · and Hed'·' LaMari' 1 ·n For- the Schubert Club Men's Chorus Our friend ran his eyes over him, .:1 • F b 27 t 8 30 · th then dared him on the scales. The bidden Lovt-\. Well, you never can e ruary a : p. m. m e t 11 Memorial ·Chapel. We have heard path from the shower room to the 1 e · , . her sing on weekly commerci'll scale led through the swimming Mr. Crosby s stay m Hollywood. radio programs for the past two pool and the fellow headed out not only producPd a bad actor. but that way, paying no attention to also has had a vety bad effect on )~ars, and she has been a. soloi~t his orchestra, which, since his cross, wrth. the New. Yorlt Oratono Soct- anybody until a huge roar went up t c H 11 from the sidelines. The stands were country jaunt, has deteriorated into e Y m arnegte a · packed with Smith girls, who were Po definitely second rate outfit. Mr. A Canadian of Scottish descent, now on theil feet cheering his Shaw's crew was formed on the Miss Watson has been -singing in walk. west coast, so we really shouldn't the United States for only about a ated from the Toronto ·Conserva- tory of Music with high honors and made her debut last spring with the Mendelssohn Glee Club of New York City. Her success caJme .be- cause of her hard work in learning Bach's entire \Mass in B Minor\ in five days. The conductor of the Bethlehem Bach Festival was pre- vailed upon to hear her sing and she so overw-helmed him that he signed her for the festival. Her reputation made, she has been featured as soloist with the Handel and Hayden Society Gf Bos- ton and with the famed Metropol- itan Glee Club of New York. At the Schubert Club Concert Miss Watson will present three groups of solos and will act as solo- ist with the men's chorus in two other groups of selections. Her solos will include \0 Don Fatale\ from Verdi's \Don Carlos,\ \Verbor- genheit\ by Hugo Wolf, Brahms' \Botschaft\, Strauss's \Zueignung\, \Silent Strings\ by Bantock and Roger Quilter's \Lovp's Ph-ilosophy.\ This is a sample of the pl'Dgram which will include more music .by Brahms and Handel. \The Time of Your Life,\ by Sa- royan, will be presented on March 5, at the Erie, and it will be this play which will be the first on which students will be able to use theil· special tic·kets, if the plan goes through. Julie Haydon of the red hair <well, almost redl and the delightful manner, will co-star wHh Eddie Dowling. The play is the one which earned for the mad and zany Sar·oyan the Pulitzer Prize c a bow of reverent appreciation is here re- quested> and the Critic's Award <you may ·bow again if you like>. Others with as much critical sense but less prestige also liked the show, and the two leading actors make the play understandable if not believable. As you can see, it's a good play with a good cast, well produced. We further feel that. appearing twice weekly, distributing a product representative of Union College in exchange with newspapers of scores of other institutions, and presenting campus information make it itnpet·ative that The Concordien- sis be an organ of the student body and that its staff be, at all times. open to student suggestion, criticism, or pmise. The columns of The Concordiensis will always be open to any member of the student body, faculty, or administration for this purp.ose. Personal conversation with staff members on Concordiensis policy is also to be sought. A small college newspaper, after all, does not fulfill its function unless it pre- sents what the campus wants it to present, and the only way its staff is to find out these \wants\ is to be informed of them. Next week's .Smith College Weelt- be too hard on his histrionic at- year and a half. She was gradu- ly carried this line in their report tempts, but the performance he ------------------------------- of the meet: \A perfect exhibition gave in the Astaire flicker certainly of .bare facts by Amherst.\ nominates him for some sort of a We 1·ealize that we have outlined a policy that is difficult of achievement. We ar·e fully acquainted with the fact that all policy institution must \go slo·w\ and that unfot·seen cir- cumstances sometimes block its fulfillment. We can, however, sincerely state on behalf of the entire Concordiensis staff that we will attempt, to the best of our collective abilities, to turn out the kind of unbiased, living newspaper that the campus wants, and the kind of newspaper that will enable the products of Union's journalism to rate favo1·ably with those of other colleges of the nation. COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES Twenty-five students, eleven of them seniors, made a straight A scho- lastic record for the first semester at COLGATE UNIVERSITY accord- ing to an article in the \Colgate Maroon.\ * .. We've often wondered what Phi \Harvard Lampoon\ award. Kay Beta Ka.ppas do at their dinners Kayser is a movie success only be- but we never found out until a cause he has always featured his member of that select organization own personality rather than the confided to us that they sang Lat·in music of his orchestra. Even \Pops\ songs. At the time w.e thought it a Whiteman had to give some pretty mark of brilliance that they could corny philosophy to Mickey \Drum- sing Latin and then wondered how mer Man\ Rooney in \Strike Up the they mouthed a dead language. Band\. Thus, it is with extreme A flash of color on the dorm wariness that we await the showing steps demanded investigation the of \You're the One\ at Proctor's other night. It turned out to be tomorrow, starring Orrin Tucker that new freshman in Middle Sec- and \Wee\ Bonnie Baker. tion of North College with the trou- Records blesome wit, wearing his orange More Tha.n You Know and Super- and bright blue World's Fair pa- man--Benny Goodman and his Or- jamas for the first time. We didn't chestra. This new twelve inch disc believe him when he to-ld us they is a honey~ On the first side Hel- were cold-the color set us on fire. en Forrest lets loose with some Truly shocking was the affair in grand vocalizing. The flip-over, fea- South Section of N. College. It seems turing the newly acquired \Cootie\ that Jerry Knowlton, determined to Williams on trumpet, is a truly sleep until noon Sunday morning, tenific pressing. You'll want this attached \Oscar his ·pet trans- one. former, .to the door knob and effec- Rosetta and Begin The Beguine tively ended the efforts of all who -·Art Tatum. To inaugurate its new The Athletic Association of RUSSELL SAGE COLLEGE is sponsoring tried to break in that way. But Sepia Series, Decca presents the a co-recreational bowling meet w.ith the fraternities of R. P. I. - Knowlton miscalculated, forgetting blind Negro piano wizard playing :jl * Fifty LEHIGH UNIVERSITY engineers applied for Naval reserve officer's commissions following a speech by Admiral Harry E. Yarnell, U. S. N. retired. also t:o attach \Oscar\ to the door two evergreens in his usual beau- hinges. tiful style. Incidently, if you're in- For some. o~ the .best invective on 1 . terested, this new series includes the campus JUSt listen to some of some of our formost Negro artists, the Hale House waiters when you among whom are \Hot Lips\ Page, hit their table around 6:25 p. m. Louis Jordan, and Bob Pope. GAZETTE PRESS Printers It's Bowling Time at REUTER'S ACADEMY II u . I B I' c t II mon s ow mg en er 148 Clinton St. Schenectady, N. Y. f pol for fee an bee tor foi wt to Yo gel l pe• tw at gr: W: ca: Fi pu ni1 lot as fat ba SE f€ in st h: h: tl u tc C! 1 j e t ,J

d over dirt, of how task te so lab- two is and of tne time and place of or S 1 as, col- of a at t : I I ___ .J and with New be- in the pre- and he has the Bos- three solo- two Het' ung\ and gram ic .by y Sa- this on use plan the d the wHh e one zany bow re- likel. sense the if e, it's well Y. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1941 Page Three $ ,J 1l (j I{ 1• ()'I' $ Court men Point For TwO Wins As Season Ends at>-. ___________ , ____ .. ---- Strive to Break Set at R. P. I. Frosh Cagers Facel Alumni Quintet Football Hopefuls Turn Out Thursday Or Else, Says 1\'els $ $ * * Because we've been writing Jack- pot spasmodically as a guest artist for the Jack who pi eceeded us, we feel that .there's not much need for an introduction now t'hat we've been honored with the sports edi- tor's portfolio. We'd just like to in- form you t•hat we're going to holler when you're wrong, so we want you to speak up when we •mu.ff one. Your voca.l choxds wil'l do1:1btless get the best workout. losing Streak Against Williams Lawrence to Referee In Preliminary Tilt Ii:\·ery candidatP for next fall's varsit:; football team is going to have to put in an appearance at Did you know that thousands of people were s1:1rprised by Joe Louis' two-round knockout of Gus Dorazio at Philadelphia last night? Con- gratulations to Ed Fitz, he wasn't. With his usual uncanny ability to call the winner, well-in:i'ormed Mr. Fitz, himself an old boxing mentor, put his money on Mr. Louis last night. We feel that .he deserves a lot of credit for the feat, so we're 1:1sing a picture. Yes, the following fashion plate is Ed Fitz . . . way back when . , . KNOW HIM? Ed has done some .boxing him- self and also tried his hand at pro- fessional basketball .for a time back in the pre-war era. He told us the story recently of a little mix-up he had in his court activities. Seems he was playing simulta;neously with three pro teams and they all joined the same league. Ed's services went to the highest bidder. Later he came to Union. In closing this humble apology for a \colyum\ we'd lilre to suggest that as one of his first editorial gestures, \Ig\ Feigenbaum write an essay on why he won't go near the water. According to Bill Ketz he has steadfastly refused to take his swimming test and has the gym- nasium department worr.ied about the precedent he may set in not swimming the required 25 yards. ·Come on, what do you say \Ig?\ ---0,--- Ten Batterymen Answer First Call Ten battery candidates, five of them sophomores, reported last Friday to Baseball Coach Art Law- re.nce at the· gym. For the next two weeks the pitchers and catch- ers will take the kinks out of their arms in light, informal drills. Then on March 3 Lawrence will issue the call for the rest of his squad and the cage will go up. Drop Eighth. 29-18. At Troy Despite Early Lead: Rathlev Sparks Five day~ from now the 1940-41 varsity basketball season will be just so much history, and not such stirring history eithet·. In the two games that rem·ain, the up-and- down Dutchmen will concentrate on winning their second and third games of an 11-tilt slate. Saturday they lost, 29-18, to R.P.I. at Troy. Tomorrow night the resourceful William:\ College five will be here and Saturday night the season wiH close with lhe visit of the Trin- ity hoopsters of Hartford. Last year Williams turned on a bewildering passing attack to down the Dutchmen, 61-40, at Williams- town. Captain Herb Watson, play- ing his last game for Union, was the Garnet'·s big gun with 10 points, most of them long shots. Co-Cap- tain~: \Mickey\ Rathlev and Al Turchiclr and Benny Jakubowski are the only members of the pres- ent Union varsity who faced the Purple last year. They made a combined total o.f only five points at that time . Union leads the E.phmen in the court series between the two by a 17-8 margin. The last time Union beat Williams was in 1936 •by a 47-32 score. Between that game and last year's contest no games were played. Passing Stressed In losing its eighth straight game Saturday night, the Garnet five, ac- cording to Coach Nels Nitchman, did too much lateral passing. Yes- terday's practice and today's long drill saw the regulars concentrat- ing on improving their fast-breaks and driving Ftraight fox· the bas- ket. Nitchman announced that he will start the same combination which began the R.P.I. game. That will call for Co-Captains Rathlev and Turchick, Ronnie Macomber, \Whitey\ Carnwright and Paul Santee to face the starting whistle. Dropped from the starting combi- nation because of his illness last week, Ben Jakaboweki may have difficulty getting back, for Sopho- more Macomber ~;;ave a good ac- count of himself at Engineertown. Dale Burnett, old New York Gi·ant football star in his first year as Williams court coach, is turn- ing out a pretty r·espectable ma- chine. Though they lost to Army by 54-38 Saturday, the Ephs boast victories over Middlebury, M.I.T., Wesleyan and Trinity. St. Mich- ael's, Yale and Boston Univer:;ity have al\o scalped Williams in close games. Wils Barnes is the lad the Garnet \DUKE\ NELSON \Dulte\ Nelson got his reward last week for giving R.P.I. its best football team in 30 years. He was tendered a three-year contract as hf'ad coach of football at the Troy school. The former Union line coach has master-minded R.P .I. to 13 victot,ies in 16 game-s sinee-· leaving herf'. Last fall his Engi- neers won seve-n and lost one-. Intramural Court League Standings National Lt-ague Team- W L Before Williams Game. the. Trophy Room 1n the g-ym- i nasmm at. 12:.45 p.m. Thur;;day, or Having cra.:'hed tl~rough for· thei1 , have a ptett~ g~od excus~. . first victory in three starts by I Coach Neld NI~chman_ ~s anxl- thrashing the R.P I. freshmen Sal- i o~:> to get hi: ~prmg tr~tntn!?\ pro~ urday night .. the promi>ing year-, g1am under'-':a:y and will dt.c~s ling courtment will pit their youth-! pl~n f?r spnng and fal'l pmct1ce ful vigor again:>t the experience 1 wrt~ hi~ charge~ Thur~day._ J:Ie de- and guile of an all-star alumni 1 cla1ed :re>terda:,; that. It Is Imper- quintet in the preliminary to to- ativ.~ that every candrda..te be pr~s­ morrow night's Union - Williams ent. ~he time ~n~ place ~or srg- game. HostilitieF will be?;in at nal dnll\ and mdividual mstruc- 6 :45 o'clock. tion will be deciueG at the mE!et- Art Lawrence will make his ing. 1941 debut as referee of a majm· B'or the past week Nitchman has game by donning the striped shirt been worldng with his backs, es- and official's tooter and keeping an pecially the lads who'll come up eye on the actions of the freFh- from l·a>t 'fall's fre:;hman com'bina- men and ~~umni. He in himself tion. Footballs have joined the bas- should be quite an attraction. ketballs in the gymna>'ium a:ir as Nels to<ses the pig::;kln back and Aged Stars forth with prospective ball-ear- In the alumni lineup will be rie1·s and pass-receivers. Secretly, such former varsity stai'S as Ray a new attack, which differs slightly MacDowell, \Jiggs\ Rotundo, Jack INith the one w:ed by dast fall's Moffatt, Ralph Semer.ad, Grant eleven, is being unfolded to the Smith, Bob Murray, Vince Smith, gridmen up in the gym. and possibly Billy Thomas., who is o, __ _ about ready to resume athletics after an appendectomy. INTRAMURAL EXTRA Kappa Nu upset Delta Chi, 25-24, last night to turn the American League basketball r.ace into a three way tie for first place between Delta Chi, Kappa Nu and Phi Gamma Delta. A round-robin play- off is now necessitated. Facing the \old grads\ will be Johnny Clowe, Warren Harvey, Ed- die Allen, Towering Vic (Shorty J Peer and Doug DeWeese. Though he was mightily pleased with their pjerformance against R.P.I.'s cubs, Coach Al Ciampa declares that his boys are capable of an even bet- ter game and will be looking for the same tomorrow. Other game:; last night Eaw Kap- pa Sigma top Delta Phi, 31-19, and Chi Psi nip Sigma Chi, 27-21. Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Delta Upsilon ....... , . . . . 5 ~ Kimmey, Herman Take Three Each ~ As Swordsmen Down R.P.I. Fencers PEi UpsHon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . 4 Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Theta Delta Chi .. .. . .. .. . 0 North College . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 3 6 8 8 Though credited in the metro-·!------------ * * * Amt>rican Lt>ague- Team- W Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . 8 Kappa Nu ................ 7 Neutrals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . 4 Alpha Phi Delta . . . . . . . . . 3 Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Chi Psi ................... 3 South College . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . 1 * • * V\Tt'ek-Pnd Re-sults politan and local daily press with a 9-8 victory over R.P.I., the var- sity fencers actually licked the En- gineer swordsmen by a 10-7 score L here Saturday. A clean ::weep of 0 the four epee matches gave the 1 Dutchmen their margin of victory. 1 Captain Warren Kimmey an.d 3 Bob Herman featured for Union, 5 winning three matches each. Other 5 victorious Dutchmen were Bill 6 Moor·e, who took two matches, Art 6 DeLorenzo and Bill Birdsall. Sum- 5 mary: 6 9 Foil Delta Chi 50. South College 22. Phi Gamma Delta 18, Kappa Nu 16. Kimmey (Ul beat Maxon (R) 5-3; Schwartzberg ( R> beat Bakal (Ul 5-4: Herman (UJ beat Motz •R• 5-3; Schwartzbetg •R> beat Kimmey 1 U> 5-3; Motz 1 Rl beat Bakal ( U J 5-3; :Maxon ( R J beat He1 man t 'UJ 5-l; ;>.Iotz 1 R> beat Kimmey ( 'U> 5-3; DeLorenzo 1 UJ beat :\1axon 1 R I 5-4; Herman 1 U> beat Schwartzberg \( R J 5-3. R.P.I. 5, Union 4. Phi Sigma Delta 39. Theta Delta Chi 13. Beta Theta Pi 48, ~orth C0llege 19, Neutrals 43, Alpha Phi Delta 19. - -o- - Daneski Hits 686 For High Triple Epe-e- I U> beat Motz I RJ 3-1; < U I beat Schwartzberg 1 Rl 3-0; Kimmey <UJ beat Motz <RJ 3-1; Moore (UJ beat Mases ( R> 3-1. Union 4, R.P.I. 0. Sabre Slavas (Rl beat Birdsall <Ul 5-4; Johnson (R) beat Herman (UJ 5-3; Birdsall <UJ beat John- son 1Rl 5-3; Herman (UJ beat Slavas ! RJ 5-1. Union 2, R.P.I. 2. Shirts are going to have to watch tomorrow. He is leading the Wil- liams scoring parade with 106 points and has developed the na~ty habit of making 13 points a game. Barnes, a junior, will probably IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State Street -Our Service is Ideal --Just Try One Haircut start at center for the Berkshire Vic D:meski hung up a new all- invaders. Bob Wallace and time intramurai bowling record \Humby\ Quintana, who made 13 last Thurs-day as he rolled a bril-, points against Union on his fast liant 686 for the well-balanced breaks last year. will probably be South College five. He strung the starting forwards. Captain games of 248, 223 and 215. Frank Bush. who tallied 12 again~t For thrPP years now the dormi- f-r=-==-=-=-==-=-======-=-=-=--=-=-=---=-=--~-- Union in 1940, and Ja('k Barter, a I tmy keglers have been the ~eourge I sophomore. ale expected to be the II of intramural bowling. Formerly it oouw F. BEEKMAN starting guards. was J.:>e Annf'se. Now it's Warren; R p 1 Ag in, Kimmey and Danefi{i. Thi:; pair · · · a · ranks with Jack Burwell and Ken i Gasoline, Brake Service U. S. Tires, Motor Tune-up Records Suffer As Mermen Lose Joe Wheatley's varsity swimmers scored m-ore points than they had in any of three previ0us meets, but they were still bea~en, 50-22, by a well-balanced, fast University of Rochcter tank team here Sat~ urday afternoon. Captain Gordie Murphy and Sophomot·e Bill WHkin took Union':> on!~· firsts. Murphy cracked the Union record for the 440-yard freestyle, clip,ping 1.4 seconds off Bob Oppenheim's old pool record of 5:41.4. But 15 feet ahead of Captain Murphy was Ca.ptain Frank Parske of Roche.,ter, who negotiated the g1·uelling quarter-mile in 5:27.2 to better both the Union and Roches- ter records. The old U. of R. mark was 5:33.3. Murphy turned in his victory in the 220-yard freestyle. Coming up fast in the last 25 yards, Wilkin passed his teammate, Big Ed Keers, to take first in the 100-yard freestylt event. Keers fin- ished up fourth al'Cer ~eaGing throughout moEt of the ea·rly go- ing. Don Miller, Yellowjacket back- stroker, eclipsed the Union pool record for 150-yards by 2.2 seconds in his specialty. Saturday's summary: 300-yard medley relay- Won by Rochester <Sweet, Jones, Bolger). Time, 3:28. 220-y-ard dash-Murphy (U), first; Phillip (R), s!!cond; Lockman <Rl, third. Time, 2 :32. 50-yard dash-Parske <Rl, first; Henrich (R), second; Wilkin (U), third. Time :25. Diving-Robber <Rl, first, 110.3 points; Payne (U), second, 106.8 points; Burke (R), third, 106.1 points. 100-yard dash-Wilkin (U), first; Bolger (R), second; Chapin (R), third. Time, :60.6. 150-yard backstroke-Miller (R), first; Swett (R), second; Lynge (U), third. Time, 1:52. 200-yard breaststroke-Smith (R), first; Jones <Rl, second; Hendrick- son (U), third. Time, 2:52.1. 440-yard dash-Parake (R), first; Muurphy (U), second; Meyer (R), third. Time, 5:27.2. 400-yard free style relay-Won by Rochester (Yates, Chapin, Bolger, Henrich). Time, 4:12. Southern trip dates and oppon- ents have yet to be announced, but will probably appear in Fri- day's Concordlensis. The Garnet nine, trying to get the jump on a number of its opponents and keep .up with several others who have been doing it for years, will move southward during the Eastern va- catiop. · Roger Moran shapes up right now as the No.1 hurler. Mike Feis- ter, Dave Clowe and George Coley are the other veterans. They'll have to replace Pitchers Chet Robinson, AI Mould and the colorful \Swede\ Hanson. It's a ·big assignment and , none of the candidates has had much varsity experience. Other moundsmen on hand now are Don Quigley, Doug Slingerland and Bill Cummings. Catching recruits in- clude Sherry Hillick, Frank Jones and \Toby\ Champlin. Fading badly in the second half, Mackenzie as Union's premier ar-~ after battling valiantly to a 14-all tists of the drives. Several other stalemate in the first twenty min- stars are still battling it out for utes, the basketball team loEt to post as the fifth man on our mythi- the Engineers from R.P.I. Satur- cal all-college team. day night for the second time this ----o-, -- year, before a large crowd in the BASKETBALL \21\ Troy gymnasium. The final score All Eecond-round matches in was 29-18. Basketball \21\ must be comPleted Co-Captain Mickey Rathlev led tomorrow. The third round wfn end a first half uprising that shook the next Tuesday. Cherry and White from its com- -,==============::::; placency and gave the Garnet a 13-7 lead with four minutes to go into the initial period. Both teams were missing plenty, but then the Engineers darted to move. Under the superb direction of \RtiEty\ DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM Exides Lubrication Chains ••Regular Checkups Prevent Costly Accidents .. 60 I UNION STREET Open Until 11 P. M. tastes good ... costs \\tt\e and swe\\ \tun to cbew- tbat's uoust£.M\Nl GUM . delicious DOUBLEMlNT ' ' •' ·. ~· >/ F 0 R Carman, the home team dropped ... three successive baskets to draw up even as time ran out. Carman was a superman. for Rensselaer. His de- fensive work on Al Turchick in RECORDS the first half, and on Rathlev in the second was nothing short of .sensational. Offensively, he was high scorer with 12 points, while setting up innumerable other scor- (Continued on Page 4) Call Ball and Ball Will Call ~~t.~· ... i'it!t\'Brs·······.· at~. J. ..... · · . · · .... · Cleaners \· \ .. . . , · & Dyer!l: PHONE 6-3456 We Serve Beter Food for Better Health 118-120 JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS :·,·.·c.~.···.·· .. ·.· .. : . . __ .. .. . . · - .. Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3 121 General Ice Cream Corp. l ·- ! I I,' ....-res chewlng ,. 1 f at sports l- I el un . . . I GUM is always sw hile you re b t en classes, w . t. events, e we EMlNT'S real-nun studying. DOUBL r taste and helps flavor ref.reshes youth .And en}oying sweeten you: br~:il; helps brighten s-mooth cheWl~g Kind to your bud.g~t. your teeth. to . day So drop ln Great to enjoY everyk ge~ of DOUBLE- and b-uy several pac a MINT GuM today. V-60 ·---,-·\-'- -'------------·--~----,-

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1941 Silber Condemns Uniform Nations Professors Consider ·Contributions 'Worship Services Famous Of Physics In Science Roundtable Planned for Painter, Exhibiting Here, Lent Expresses His Views on Modern Art \The fundamental contribution·•~- National Temperament Keynotes Chapel Talk In •Faith• Series of science to :oociety is a way to thin!\ things out,\ said Dr. Vladi- mir Rojansky, acting chairman of the physics department. in opening the \Union College Science Round- table,\ 'broadca\t Saturday over Station WGY. \The pl'inting pres~. the skyscraper, the airplane, as well as .torpedoes and cannon are only by-products, good and bad, of thi:; one mo:;t prl'ciou:; gift of science,\ he went on. Christian Association To Hold Five Services In Memorial Chapel The Union C01Iege campus, f0r • ~--- CALENDAR the next few days, wiH be graced by \I believe that ability is inb0rn as l the presencP of Mr. Carl Faille, far as art is concerned. Men are noted ~ painter, who will :;;oon be b0rn artists. I can teach anyone showing his paintings in Hanna how to paint, but that has its limits Hall. a:nd then it depends upon the native Today No na:tion that strives for uni- formity can exist for any length of time, keynoted Dr. Gordon R. Sil- ber, Instructor in Modern Lan- guages, speaking in daily assembly this morning on the question 0f na- tional temperment. 7:45 p. m.--Classical Club Meet- mg. Home of ProfesEor George D. Kellogg. Speaker. Professor Hanio;on C. Coffin, \The Arthurian Legend.\ The Christian Association wil'l The painting may be seen starting· ability of the student. Talent and hold a series of five W0rship Serv- Thursday, and will remain in the application are prerequisites for an ices in the chancel of Memorial Washburn Hall auditorium through artist. He paints with both his Chapel dur·ing Lent, it was an- next Tuesday. Tomorrow at 3: 30 he brain and his hand. His mind con- TOlUOl'l'OW 10:00 a. m. - Daily Speaker, Robet·t B. Memorial Chapel. Ati.:'embly. nounced this week by Edward ,wi·~·l lecture. 0 ~ . \Mountain Trai:s ceives the painting and his hand is Davis ·~2. Fleigel, '42, chairman of the com- •Wt·th a _a Artrst, Ill Hanna H~ll. I guided by that creation.\ Dr. Silber warned that many peo- ple were inclined to make sweeping generalities about the tempet·ment of various nations. He said that such expression$ as Mexicans are all shiftless or lazy. or that AmE'ri- cans are all gras·ping business men are usually 99'1 f·alse and often cause racial ·prejudice and misun- derstanding. Dr. Rojansky, with Dr. Frank J. Studer, associate professor of phy- ~icl!, Dr. Everett W. Thatcher, as- sistant pt·ofessor of physics. and Drs. Charles V. Strain and Zal<a Sla w:sky, instructors in the field. discussed \The Contribution of Science to Modem Civilization\ during this spconct in the seriel:' of bx·oadcast\. 7:30 p. m.-Placement Discus- sion. M:r. A. F. Male, F. W. Woolworth Company, \Chain Stores.\ Silliman Hall. The services will be held between hang his paintings, Mr. Faille very Should Know Art mittee in charge of the services. Paustng before commencmg to I 5:15 and 5:45 p. m. on February 28 eagel'iy agreed to discuss his paint- Here Mr. FaiHe paused to give and Mmch 7. 14. 21. and 28. ings with the \Concor·d1ensis\ re- ,further directions to those who The services will be in prepar-Jporter. In answer to a question re-1were helping him to arrange his ation for the Good Friday Com- garding the wierdness of his series, paintings. \It is advantageous\ he 1:15 p. m.-League of Women munion Service to be held at 8:00 of mountain paintings, he said that 1 continued, \to have some knowledge Cotcr~. Luncheon, Hale House. p. m. on AprH 11 in Memorial '~.many persrms had inq\.Iil•ed of him 1 ab0ut art. Those per£<ons wh0 have 2:30-5:30 p. m.-Art Exhibit, Chapel. This Communion Service :whether he had taken this idea I such a knowledge will get much American Assoc-i·ation of Uni- wiH be similar to the one held at ;from Milton's \Paradise Lost\ or !farther in life than those who have versity Women, Hanna Hall. that time last year. \from Dante's \Inferno\. He replied inot. After all, everything you see is Commencing by defining templ'r- ment as the frame of mind of the individual as reflected in his idc>as and character, Dr. SilbE't' pointed out the emphasis placed upon the individual in the definition. He questioned whether such a term could be accurately appliPd to a nation as a whole. 3:30-5:30 p. m.-Glee Club Re- The Fl'iday afternoon Lenten that he hadn't read either of these I really art.\ The phy~icists went on to con- 1 Discuss Automobilt> sider the principles of phyc;ics in- hear::al, Hanna Hall. services will c0nsist 'Of hymns, works until one month after this I As for making a profession of the valved in operating an automobile. 3:30 p. m. Lecture, Carl Faille, prayers, and scripture readings, series had been put on exhibition in field of art Mr. Faille declared that Dr. Thatcher. pointing out the im- American Artis{; \On Moun- w!th no sPrmon. Fliegel sa.id. They New York City. All in. all, he used 1 only the fi~Id of commercial art has portance of the laws of friction tain Trails with an Artist.\ w~ll ·b<? pr<?.ceeded by 1 5 mt~utes of I only 10 of the 22 mott:es that he [many possibHities a.nd that it is one when a.pplied to automobile brakes, American As£ociation of Uni- or.gan musr~ ~y Paul Best.' 41, .. who lworked out. for the serres. field which needs new ideas. said that \these laws are not quite ver,;ity Women, Old Chapel. ':\ 1 H •. also provtde the musrc fm .the Is Mountain Resident • At this point Mr. Faille asked to what you might expect them to be 5:00-6:00 p. m.-Public Speaking ~e;;~~es~et·vices will be conducted Asked w~y he. h~d concentra~ed ibe excused, for he had to finish un- uff hand. Thi.:' lead.:' to wrong ideas Clas:;, Old Chapel. b th R d H b t R H h ,on mountain pamtmgs, Mr. Fatlle I packing his paintings Here was one Comments on Languagt> in the mind:; of many dliver·:;, ideas 7:00 p. m.~Bible Study Group, t Y Je evP 11 t'Pn het· 1 PI: · doug - 1 r·eplied, \I have lived in mountain I man we observed ~·ho believes in D S b d f th t m . 'd t , f p f W 1 E on, r .. co • ~ge r ap am, an one f t f l'f d 't h , • • r. · il er commente or a mo- a ay cause sertous acct en s. Home o ro essm· arret . b . f th Ch .· t' A . 1 areas or mos o my 1 e, an· 1 as ·art for more than \art's sake.\ ment upon the fact that language Dr. Studer explained that, ac- Taylor, 38 Union Avenue. ':lem er. 0 e 115 .tan ssocra- gotten into my blood, I guess.\ 0 __ _ students in recent vears have be- tually, the braldng mechani~m does 7:00 ·P· m.-Student Council tton. M1. Houg.hton wtll be .asstst- '1 In <.ontinuing the story of this J ed at thl' February 28 serv1ce by . . . .. come increasingly aware that peo- nothing but enable the road to get Meeting, Old Chapel. Amasa W. Howland, , 43 . 1amazmg senes, he. sard.' I~ was a pie are very careless in regar·d to a grip on the car. The area of con- 8:00 p. m.-Varsity Basketball, All mem•bers of the student body, lchallen~e to my rmagmat~o~ and the meanings of words especially tact ha:; no affect on the \stopping Union vs. Williams at Sche- faculty members and other mem- conceptron. Not to be ~gottsttcal, I abstract words. This, he said, also fot·ce,\ Dr. Thatcher added. nectady. bet 5 of the college community will went so far with my tde~~ tha~ I causes much confusion and misun- \I think it is up to the physicists be invited to attend these Worship !startled. the New ~ork cnt!cs wrth derstanding. to make clear how they worli and Thursday Ser·vices. Fliegel said. 1 my radtcal concep~ton .. I ne~er ~x- Who then. he said. are you going ho wthpy gt>t their theories. I think 10:00 a. m. -- Daily As>'embly, The services which are under the .pect to do anythmg m thts !me to use to typify our national temc thi:; pr·ocedure i:; a prE'tty good Speaker, Mr. Couman His.Jop, • again\ ? w t' f one,\ Dr. Slawsk,. said. He ex- ,.,.,h • 1 h 1 v 11 a. a di.rection of the Christian Associa- · · perment. e are a na ton o ·man·y J ' • e '\ o aw' a ey \ tion, at·e being planned by a com- 1 .. \Until that t~m::· h~ cont.inued, Dr. Coffin Will Discuss 'Arthurian Legend• Professor Harrison C. Coffin, Chairman of the Divi~ion of Lit- erature, will addreEs the C1assiCal Club tonight at the home of Pco. fessor George D. Kellogg on the subject, \The Arthurian Legend.'' diversified thoughts and point:; of plained how the physicists proce- Sample of America,\ Me- mittee consistinrr of Fleigel as 1 I h.ad. been pa.mtmg. e.rther. m the View If You take the bl·g business- dure is kept closE'!'· allied with ob- mot·t'al Chapel '\' 1 t 1 t I d • J • C·hairman. Lyall Dean. Jr .. '43. and irea ts tc or semr-rea ts .rc vem. o Professor· Coffin said yesterdn.\- man for your ty·pe, what are you served fact, while theory b being 2:30-5:30 p. m. -- Art Exhibit, 1 Howla.nd. ,'not believe that an artist has shown that his talk would consi:;t 1 Jf a gomg 0 • _ _ __ ~~ 0 ____ I his mettle until he has painted in general discus~ ion of the legend. · t do about the Southerner esta•bJis·hed. These theories are American Association of Uni- I the Minnesota Swede. of the New then carefully tested by experimen- versity Women. Hanna Hall. U , R p I AI , PI I several different veins. That chal- including the background for the England far·mer? tation. 7:30 p. m. Faruity Men's Club nJOn· • • • Urn. nl an ~·lenge.d me to attemp,,t something in m. aterial, the method of presenta- Thus, he said, we must conclude Dr. Strain. considering the prob- Meeting, Hale House Lounge 1 S d I h f ld f f that only on those fpw occasions !em of how a person'~ \'oice >ouncts Fields of !\1odern Languages. econ Annua D1nner ,t e re 0 antasy. I tton and the sources repre~ented. when the spirit of the whole nation to hims<>lf. Pxplained that thE' Hosts. I I is temporarily united behind some,, sounds mad<' by a speaker reach Friday Further stt·engthE'ning of tthhee great cause can it really bP said the ears of the listE\ner through the bonds of friendship between that we have a na•tional temper- air. They reach thE' earf of the 10:00 a. m. -- Daily Assembly. two institutions will mark tonight's ment. speaker him,.<>lf in two ways, how- Ot·gan Recital, Dr. E. A. Tid- secc-nd annual Union-R.P.I alumni This tremendous difference in evPt\ through the air and also di- mar~h. Memorial ChapP!. dinnPr. at which thP graduatPs of temperment in the 'C'nited States is rectly through the bone,; of his 2:30-5:30 p. m.- Art Exhibit. I both >\chools will hold an informal II not unfortunate. but rather sug- head. This differl'nCP accounts for American A;·sociation of Uni- It eunion in Hale Hou:e. Dr. Paul gests a need for tolerance and for the fact that we cannot hear our versity Women, Hanna Hall. i Hemke, who has had eighteen the democratic type of government voice~ a~ we speal< exactly as 7:30 p. m. - Placement DisCU-'- j years' experience in aeronautical which can unite :such diffPrE'nt peo- othpt·s hPar them. sion, Captain SidnE'y J. Lane engineering. in government. and in pie. ThP \\\'h~·s\ of Facts and Captain Townsend. U. S. · 'ccllege education. will sneak on the ·~- --- --o~- ~ Dr. Rojansky useu the story of Army. Old Chapel. : ~·~~{~~t. \\\'hat r~ Ahead in Avia- V s·t Quintet Loses the eatly days of etectricty to il- ar I y Iu:trate his point that it is es:;en- Chess Match with R. P. I. Among- the guests at the dinner, To R. P. I. Again. 29-JS tial that many pPoplP seek the ~ will 1 be. Armand V. Feigehnbacum., \ h \ f 1 ob ·et·\·ed . . 11 t new y e ected Pditor of \T e on- w ys 0 common Y ~ The Unton chets team wt mee cnrdiensis,\ and Leonard R. Kohl- ( Continued from Page 3> facts. . . a group from R P.I. on Sunday. hofer president editor of R pI's ing plays. \Chick\ Kneuble was The dtscUtt'ton was concluded I Februal\' 23, Maurice Deul '42, \P , .' h . .. B th : 11 ·b. f h ~ h . f t t' b. th h .. · · ·t > d O•) tee n1r. o men wt e on the pay-off end of three o t ese wtt a t e u a ton J e P ~:>tCt:> s 1 president of the club, announce th . 1 \ , f D. J . M as the second half progreosed, and, of the belief that science is an . . d . ~ e specta ~ue- t. 0 1 · am e., · . . . . ) ester a)· Dunn. pt esrdent of the SchE>nec- these would have been enough to enemy of ctvrhzatton. Dl'. Thatcher i Wilbur Larkin '43, secrE'tary of tadv Alumni A\'ociation. which is give the Trojan:; the ball game, for quoted. a statement by Professor I the organizativn. received a tele- h d' . sponsot ing t e tuner the luckless Duthcmen were able ~\. J. CariE on in :-vhich he .~aid. \If I gram last week inviting the team ___ ~ · to score just four· point>: in the last m any place or ttme the blmd fury I to meet the R.P.I. group last Sat- twenty minutes, on widely sepa- ?f hatre~ of our· brethr·en and the I urday. Since the telegram was re- rated set shots· by Santee and msane \'tolence of war render the 1 ceived too late to anange the Carnwright. The Cherry and 'VVhite pur:;uit. of. science impossible, and I m:atch for that date, it wa.:; s·cehd-; Imerested in Schenectady Interested in UNION continued to add to ito total as the >crenttfic method ~ubmerged uled for this Sunday. the game ended. and fo~·gotten, it will be rediscov-! Deul said yesterday that his or-! MAURICE B. GRAUBART Union's fundamental inability to ered. Ill better days, by better aanization was al:so planning r·e- i make basl<ets when it shot wa!' men.\ rurn meets with the team from Al- again the insurmountable barrier. This Saturday's discussion will bany State Teachers' College and, They made just eight out of thE'ir consider how Chemistry has made Colgate. · 43 shot.E, and made only two long life richer for the world. Sunday's team will be cho<en set shots. Coach Nels Nitchman o from the following membexs of the was pleased, on the other hand, Position of Holland club: Duel, Lakin, Frederick Sie- i with the scrappy game played by gel '43, Marvin Smith '43, Marvin Sophomore Ronnie Macomber. who T epic of Discussion Weltman '43, and Charles Snell '43. I may have earned a permanent In its last match, the team de- starting berth by his pet·formancl'. Holland's .posit.ion under· its Nazi feated Colgate, 3 to 1. The Jay Street Jev:e/er 166 JAY STREET TVatch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS R P.I.- G F P occupation will be the subject of a ~~~~=~~~~~~~=~~=il Kneuble, rf ........... 3 2 8 pmgram to be held tomonow night 1 If Zirkuly, rf ............ 1 0 2 at Memorial ChapeL Taking as ' -- ----1 Carman, If ............ 5 2 12 their subject, \Holland Carries On\ 1 Golden, If ............. 0 0 0 President Dixon Ryan Fox, of 1 Coleman, c ............ 0 0 0 Union College, and Dr. Alexander Madden, c . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Loudon. minister fr·om Holland to Game, rg . · · · · · · ...... · 1 0 2 the United States. will deliver short Mueller. rg 1 1 3 addresses. Admission to the pro- Hecht, rg ............. 0 1 1 gram, which will begin at 8:15 p. m, Hawks, lg . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 1 is free to the public. Hosldns, lg ·. . ..... 0 0 0 ·Colored motion pictures and lan- Wieks, lg . · .......... ~. 0 0 0 tern slides of the Netherlands wHI Totals ............... 11 7 29 be shown to the audience and thC' Union- • G F P two speakers will aJ,;o answer ques- Carnwright, rf ........ 2 0 4 tions from the floor. The program Wysocki, rf ........ ~ .. 0 0 0 1 is sponsored by the Queen Wilhel- Macomber, If .......... 0 1 1 mina Fund. Rathlev, c ............ 4 1 9 Santee, rg ............ 1 0 2 Turchick, lg .......... 0 0 0 Jakabowski, lg ........ l 0 2 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 2 18 Score at halftime~R.P.I., 14, Union 14. Fouls committed~ Union 15, R.P.I. 7. Referee-Cassedy. Um- pire-Dowling. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper. One Step frorr. State Streei ICE CREAM LANGE & RAPP PHARMACY \Service for the Sick\ Ideal Friendship Gifts Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE ST. DAIRY PRODUCTS WM. GREEN JR. DAIRY 1701 Union St. Tel. 3-2161 I I The ELITE TAILOR I : Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 I 516 Union Street I Tuxedos for Rent I J. CORNELL, Prop. Pleasant Valley -- -- I Food Market I Unquestionably i • ' Favored! I I I OUk MOTTO ARISTOCRAT ' .. Quality - Service ICE CREAM I BELLEVUE ! Satisfaction .. DAIRY I • I Phone 6-1248 II 598 B'way- For Better Values - SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR Qinutnro itU!tt!i FRED WARING composer of over 50 college hit songs-in \Pleasure Time\ • FOR UNION MON., TUES., WED., THURS., FRI. at 7 P.M. N •. a. C. Stations GLENN MILLER America's No. 1 Dance Band Leader in \Moonlight Serenade 11 FOR UNION TUES., WED., THURS. at 10 P.M. C. B. S. Stations v ne\ cor is evE exi 'I OU! ses a Pei prE for Fo• Mr thE iza PO' prr ter ers sig tht leg we tO\ eff 95, thE of re~ of is stt ph sh He iZE w~ th· sp pa as: gil at: pli as <a nc th eq ta R1 to au qt: or as be th th be pt gr w: ag so st bl ar fo ex H p, of B• CE le H m ti: of OJ F \I V( is a! c. te Sl u ··~ 1i: aJ ft fi t1: tc al le si a: ci r• p s tl d sl t< n h y

as are limits t and an his con- is give who his he have much have see is the that has one to one in Lit- the erdrry uf a the 5 We don't know of what trend the new consciousnesf. of the power of callege students as a distinct group is indicative. We do know, how- ever, that this new consciousness exists, and in no small measure. This fact was forcibly braught to our attention last night in a ·bull sessi0n with one Charles E. Smith. a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, who is spending hi~ pre-d·raft period of grace tra velit1g for the \National C0mmittee on Food for the Small Democracies.\ Mr . .Smith frankly admitted to us that his entire section of the organ- ization, whi·Ch is daily growing in power, is devot.nd to presenting the program to college students and at· tempting to turn them into work- ers for the movement, m at least signatories for the several petitions the group i:J citculating. \Certainly we're working for col- lege support,\ Smith said. \When we contact .college students in a town Hke Schenectady, we are, in effect, contacting an entire city of 95,000 inhabitants. The papers of the city always follow the doings of the college very closely, and we really present our program to all o.f them when a college committee is organized.\ * * Smith spoke for two hours to a student group on the merits of the plan sponsored under the leader- ship of former president Herbert Hoover whom Mr. Smith character- ized as a \great humanitarian who was asked to assume leadership o.f the movement by virtue of his splendid relief work during the past war.\ He said that all Hoover and his associates desire is to allow a ·be- ginning to be made fm· the oper- ation of the plan, said beginning planned for Belgian Food Relief. * * 'Smith outlined the Hoover plan as follows: Germany must agree las she virtually has) l 1> to take none of the domestic produce of the peoples aided; l2l to futnish an equivalent of any ,food already taken; l3) to perat;t imports from Russia and the Balkan states; l4) to allow free passage of ships with- out attack; and l5> to permit ade- quate control of distribution by the organization so as to em11ble it to assure that these guarantees will be carried out. In ·this connection, the .group's traveling agent said that a neutral commission would be appointed for administrative purposes, and that the entire pro- gram would immediately cease when Germany violates her pledge. 'Great Britain's obligation is \'to agree that shi-ps carrying cargoes solely of food for these people should be allowed to pass their blockade so long as the guarantees are fulfilled.\ Smith said all food would be paid for by the de facto or fugitive gov- ernments of the five democracies- Holland, Norway, Finland, Central Poland, as well as Belgium to all of which food would be sent if the Belgian experiment wot ks out suc- cessfully. * * * There was much by way of prob- lem that Smith left hanging in air. He assigned the Washington ad- ministration's coolness to the en- tire proposal as merely a function of political opposition to a former opponent. He dismissed the George Fielding Eliot type argument of \perhaps England is waiting for re- volt in Hitler's backyard, and that is the reason she doesn't want to allow food to be transported into Continental Europe\ with the coun- ter claim that food in the trampled small democracies would counteract the anti-English propaganda of \see what the blankety blank Eng- lish did for you in deserting you and allowing you to starve.\ * • Z.511 Vol. LXIV., No. 34 Glee C.lub Vermont Tomorrow Gives Concert~ Night! Six Green Mountain Alumni Now at Union To Accompany Group Playing the role of tr·aveling &m- b::,ssadors of good will, the Union College Glee Club wHI sing before the student body of Green Moun- tain Junior College in Poultney, Vermont, tomorrow night. Mr. Reginald L. Swann, '30, is director of college guidance there. Besides the club, six Union stu- dents, graduates of Green Moun- tain but having no connection with the Glee Club, will be entertained as guests of the Vermont student body at dinner and at a dance fol- lowing the concert. The six,. who will represent the Union student body, are: Lloyd Bartholomew, '41, l~lifford Sawyer, '42, Richard Bunk- er, '42, Robert Fraughton, '42, Mar- 1m DeLancey, '42, and George Hup- man, '42. Bard Chestney, ex '42, now u student at Green Mountain will arrange dates f01 the group. To InU>rest Students in Union Every member of the club will sit at a different table in the col- lege dining hall. A supplementary purpose of the trip will be to in- terest Green Mountain students in finishing their college careers at Union, Edmund G. Kelly, business manager of the club, said. Union has in the past received a large number of transfer students from the Vermont junior college. The same pro;;ram that has been sung in Albany and New York will bn used. Members of the club who will sing include: First tenors, Ed- ward Schultz, Elliott Hertzmark, Robert Horstmann, Abraham Molyneaux, AJ.bert Renaldi, and Robert E. Jones. Second tenors: Clair C. Smith, Edward Beargon, Robert Frelick, Don Stevens, Ed- ward Fliegel, Charles Gould and George Clark. Baritones: Paul Best, William Johnson, Clarence Woodward, A. Durston Dodge, Walter Thiesen, George Coley and Thomas Demp- ster. Second basses include: Ed- mund G. Kelly, John Bundy Shaw, harold C. Joslin, ~I. Whitridge P..aymond and James E. Smith. ----0---- College Presidents Hold Discussion Dr. Fox Interviews President of Hobart On American Ideals Dr. Fox and Dr. William Alfred Eddy, president of Hobart College, discussed \Americanism - Is Your Birthright Protected?\ on Radio Station WGY on Wednesday as part of the celebration of Amen- canism week sponsored by the Jun- ior Chamber of Commerce in Sche- nectady. He stated that there are two cardinal points of Americanism; one-the expectation that the will of the majority will prevail. and two-that the minority will be re- spected. It appears aiso, he con- tinued, that no two people agree about what the definition of Amer- icanism is, and that is also a healthy sign. Dr Eddy is on leave for three But Mr. Hoover·s plan is care· months to form a program of cHi- fully worked out, and based as zen education outside of schools firmly on past experience as a.ny- for New York State. He answered thi.ng in .the changea·ble world of the questions whic·h Dr. Fox as in- today can be. It deserves consider- terviewer presented. ation, whether that consideration In reply to a question by Dr. leads to its rejection or not. Fox whether it was dangerous to The strange factor in the whole teach the American faith and dis- situation is that the final decision cuss our fundamental problems, Dr. as to whether the small democra- Eddy answered in the negative. cies of Europe will get their food He then discussed the weak- rests on the shoulders of American nesses of Democracy. He main- public opinion. And, as asserted 'by tained t·hat the fault with Ameri- Smith, college students are one of can c-haracter was that we are the major elements in this opinion prone to make mor-al judgments determination. and substitute wishes for acts. Nation and world are adding In concluding the discussion it strange and grave responsibilities was brought out that forums and to our shoulders these days. How open meetings are spontaneous and much different the collegiate scene not sponsored by the government. has become in two and one half l which is significant to American years. Faith at the present time. • UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1941 Netherlands Minister I Color Is Feature! Indies To Fight Any Aggression Dutch Minister Warns That Netherlands Plan Continued Resistance Dr. Alexander Loudon, Minieter from Holland, told Union Etudents in yesterday's chapel that the Dutch East Indies would fight any invader \alone if need be.\ Besides stating his country's po- sition in the present Eastern crisis, Dr. Loudon compared the German invaders· to gangsters who might strike down a Union student on the campus and rob him of his watch and attempt to take hie cig- arette caEe and wallet. Should the student go to court to try to recover his watch he would be in the position of the Dutch in exile which is now before the world court of public opinion. That government poseesses all the legal attributes of a sovereign state because it is pushing its· fight again<t the German government and r·etaining its Empire from the temporary seat of the government in London. Of Faille's Work The set of impres;:ionistic paint- ings now being ehown in Hanna Hall was done \in answer to a chal- lenge,\ said Carl A. Faille, its creator. Acquaintance~. knowing of his flair with colors, dared him to do something original with them, and they were astounded at the finished work, he said. The theme, according to the ac- companying explanations, was in- spired from a dream caused by a thunderbolt in Grand Valley. IUaho, near the Teton mountain~. It protvays a journey into the eternal realm at the hands of a giant spirit. However, II'Ir. Faille believes that the theme is not as impor- tant aE the use of the colors. The . works were done through juxtapo- sition, that is, the color was put on stroke by stroke, instead of putting them 0n top of each other. According to Mr. Faille, thiE makes the ~trok:ing very difficult. Also included in the exhibition are a group of realistic and semi- realistic landscapes. These alw show Faille's technique in the use of color. Procpss Discov!\red The artist has discovered, after two year,; of research, a proce\s by which he can effectively re.produce his works cheaply. Prints made ·by this process, which in no way change the richness of the origi- nal, are now available. Mr. Faille is now starting a new series of paintings which will re- semble those now on exhibition neither in theme or· in color schemes. Opinions expressed by some of the Thursday afternoon visitor:; varied. The following said: Feliciano J. Gonzalez, '42-\They are very beautiful. I'm crazy for colors. The red and greens-oh:\ Floyd J. Szurek, '41,-\I like his landscapes, but I don't care for the impressionistic paintings. I don't understand them.\ Ernest A. Staley, '41, - \Not great.\ Mrs. Harold W. Blodgett-\The effective use of light, shadow, and .striking colors is ou•standing. The showing as a whole reveals a real affection for the country in which he has lived and do.ne his work.\ ---0- Rumor Has Duke Nelson As Boston College Coach Walter J. !Duke) Nelson, who ·recently signed a three-year con- tract as head coach of football at R.P.I., is being boomed for the coaching post vacated last week at Boston College by Frank Leahy, new Notre Dame mentoc Nelson, a graduate of Middlebury College, was line coach at 'C'nion until the spring of 1939. Usually reliable Boston sources reported that it was believed R.P.L would not stand in Neeson's way if he should be offered the Hub job. Student Council Meeting Postponed Until Feb. 2(j The meeting of the Student Council scheduled for Wednes- day night was adjourned imme- diately after a roll call had re- vealed that a quorum was not present. Dickenson E. Griffith, Jr., .president of the council, an- nounced that a meet·ing would be held next Wednesday, Febru· ary 26, to co-mplete the busine~s s~heduled for February 19. The council which was to have heard a report by the committee study- ing student sponsor ship uf the Union-Siddmore Freshman par- t-ies, and to have discussed pro· posed by-laws for the Campus Chest movement, and to have appointed two representatives from the class of 1944 . Radio Workshop On Air Tonight Frequency Modulation Broadcast Scheduled For Frosh Weekend The Racllo Wor·kshop's produc- tion \Jedediah Peck\ will go on the air tonight at 10:30 over Sta- tion WGY. 1:he fifteen minute dra- matic skit portray• the resistance of Amel'ican patriots in 1799 to the Sedoition Act passed ·by the Fed- ·eralist congt·e:;,;. 1 he production, in rehearsal thi:J past week, has been under the direction of Ken- neth Powell of the WGY staff. The title rote of Jedediah Peck is played by Stanley Green, '43. Peel' and his associates succeed in circulating a petition against the Sedition Act in spite of the deter- mined resi,.tance of an aristocrat, ,played by Elwood Starn, '44. Other :parts will be played by Samuel Portnoy, '42, in the role of Wil- liam; Arthur Pastore, '44, in the role of Henry Wentworth; Donald Green, '41, as Mr. Whipple, and Myron Mills, '42, will pm·tray Smithy Jones. Granger Tripp, '43, will act as narrator. The sole fem- inine role, that of Mrs. Wertworth, will be portrayed by Mr~. Viola Patterson, who has done consider- able work with the Mountebanks. Conducting their first Frequency Modulation remote broadcast from the step!:' of the Union Memorial Chapel, Saturday, Sub - freshman weekend, the Rc<dio Work8hop will inaugurate the first of a series of on-the-spot broadcasts, around the Union College campus. The first broadcast, Saturday, March 22, will be a candid one. Sub-freshmen will be interviewed in an attempt to give the radio audience an impres- sion of Union through eyes unfa- maliar to the campus. Bernard Krause, '39, for.mer membPr of the Workshop and now on the staff of W2XOY. an F.M. station, will assist the group in its task. The extent of that fight was re- vealed when Dr. Loudon told of the commisEioning of another destroyer for the Dtuch Navy b~· the Queen. The destroyer had been one that was uncompleted when the Nazi hoards poured over the low coun- tries and had been towed to Eng- land. Besides the navy, the Dutch Air Force is working hand in hand with the RAF and a Dutch LegL:m has been formed in England. Young Penn Asks Aid For Grad Visits Union; Democracies Small Diplomat Uses Symbols Union's increasing connection~---------------- Both t;,e cigarette case and the with the American intercollegiate hundr·ecls f 11 d · wallet were used by Dr. Loudon as scene received further strengthen- 0 co eges an um- ;:ymbol< of the Dutch Empire. He ing last night in the form of a versities throughout the co~ntr~, denied the story that the English brief visit from a representative of and to present the Commrttee s government has occupied the one of the country's largest human- plan before them. . Dutch West Indies when he ex- itarian organization:, oi our tlme. 1 He becomes even more typrcal plained that the British were only He was Charles J. Smith. Jr., field with the knowledge that late in there to help the Dutch maintain representative for the National Stu- April he will take an active part order. dent Committee of the National in Uncle Sam's defense program, Aggression by Japan or any other .Committee on Food for the Small since, at that time, he will start power will be repelled by the Dutch Democracies. This group's cam- duty as a flying cadet in the United and their native armies fighting paign fot· the sunport of the oc- States Air Corps. \This is pretty side by side without foreign aid cupied democracies of Europe i;o conclusive evidence that I'm not a if no other power comes to their due to swing into full-time activity 1 pacifil't,\ he said. \just in case aid. Unlike Japan's war in China, within the week. His purpose was, that argument is used against this conflict would be no \incident\ the contacting of members· of the me.\ Dr. Loudon said, for the Dutch Student Committee for Democracy, After his graduation from Penn government would not hesitate to who talked with him for two hours in the summer of 1939, Mr. Smith declare a state of war. in Silliman Hall. worked for some time ~t the Hotel A eystem of trade for trade's Beyond the actual material he PennEylvania in New York, then • tS PRICE FIVE CENTS Rust Makes Trip To For Book Shows Mountebanks Staneska to Resume Director's Role; Will Take Feminine Lead Mr. Gordon A. Rust, faculty ad- viser of the Mountebanks, has just completed an extended bu~iness trip contacting various g-roup& in several cities for booking of the EaEter road trip of the organiza- tion. Details are as yet incomplete, Mr. Rust said, but organizations in several towns have ~hown great interest. At least five ·performances are planned of \The Inspector General\ in northern New York and the capital di>tl·ict. Mr. RU.:lt covered that territory this past weekend, stopping in Pot;;dam, Malone, Can- ton, Amsterdam, Albany, and Mid- dletown. Further groups have been contacted but specific details of the itinerary have yet to be work- ed out by the Mountebanks. TranEporting the Mountebanks set and cast is quite a job, club officials said. The actors will travel in a bus while the set will be trans- ported in a moving van. It is ex- pected that the cast will be enter- tained by local groups in the towns in which they will appear. Several dances and receptions have been planned tentatively, so that the trip will combine acting with pleasure. Staneska Arrives March 1 Miss Staneska will arrive on the campus on March 1 to continue with the final .directing. While at the Mohawk Drama Festival this summer, she was one of three di- rectors of the student members, as well as a featured player in the Festival productions. For the past two months Miss Staneska has been in Miami, playing roles in the repertory company there, under the direction of Bertram Harrison, the director of last fall's Mounte- banks production. She will also play a role in \The Inspector General,'' having received ::pecial permission to appear from Actors' Equity in New York. Mr. James Russo, who conducted the original \blocking out\ of the play, will also arrive in order to assist the director in whipping the play into shape. Because of the projected road tour, special ·problem considera- tions have arisen in connection with the execution of the set. The theatres in the different towns are of varying sizes, and the lighting systems also differ. Special care must be taken in planning scenery colors so that they will look ade- quate under almost any system of lighting, and more sturdy set con- struction than usual is required be- cause of the banging which it will receive in transport. The variance in stage sizes necessitates a con- struction adaptable to the different theatres. The difficulties are slowly being solved, and. back stage work is now going on, limited mostly to painting, and prop conEtruction. P!\riod Costtunes \The Inspector General\ is a play whose action takes place in the early Victorian days in Russia, ne- cessitating the use of costumes of period design. Some of them will be made by the crew, under the di- rection of Charles Lothridge, who worked on the costumes in the pre- vious Ehow. The Russian bourgeoisie of the mid-nineteenth century were strongly influenced by the vagaries of French style trends, and this in- fluence must be brought forth in the pr·eparation of sets, costumeE, and lighting. The play has two scenes: one is laid \in the drawing room in the home of the mayor of the village, and the other is in a room in the sake was urged by Dr. Loudon. brcught, Mr. Smith appeared quite moved on to a position in Cincin- Trade in the Indies would be open typical of American youth today. nati. Ohio. Returning east this fall to all countries and no foreign Only graduating from the Univer- to answer the government's draft domination for the sake of t.rade Eity of Pennsrivan:a two year:: \call he became affiliated with the will be permitted. ago, he became associated with the Small Democracies Committee, hotel of the town. It has been ar- ranged ED that the set in the hotel room will be moved within the larget set of the mayor's parlor, in order to simplify the handling of the scenery during a performance. Because the play is a comedy, much of the humorous effects de- rive from the actions of the char- acters, rather than from their lines alone, so the cast has ·been en- grossed in mapping out \busineEs\ for the roles. as wel! as learning lines. World freedom will be lost and movement by chance, but now, as whose main purpo<e is supplying will not return if men will not fight he himself says, is \getting more badly-needed food to the less pow- for their ideals the minister said. out of viEiting the many colleges erful nations of Europe whose gav- In ending his chapel talk he stated in eastern United States than I ernments fell when Hitler's legions that buildings could be rebuilt, did during four years at school.\ started marching two years· ago, men can be reborn, but human By way of explanation, it may be and whose food supply was sud- ideals can not be unles< men fight well to say that his occupation for [ denly cut off with the advent of to preserve them. the next two months will be to visit (Continued on Page 4)

·, Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1941 Qlnnror \Ti'me Out Of Enzmett For a Evans, Sandwich'' Is Subject of Effective 'Union At Slogan Work' FoUJ:>;DED 1877 \.-1 Causa Per sa Parole .-1 ssai' Member of the Associated Collegiate l'res8 Hllli dbtrlburur of tile Got· legiate Digest. The official ne\\':::.paper of tht~ ~tndent~ of UuJoll Cullt'ge. lJulJll::;hed Tue::;: day and l>'·ridays throughout the college ~.::-e.::a.;.:r·7.---:-·.-----;;;-;--:-;:--­ Edltorilfl Rooms, Silliman Hull, limon ~:-'ul'lege Caiii[JU:;. Tdepllullc, Schenectady, 4-0133. PubUCiition Office,- •1'ii; LiUZ~ttt: -PI~-::,!;)~ JJ:i -~w~- ~-l.~S~~~~~~t~~~Y.~ Telephone 4-4141 'Entered at the Schenectady P~ffi<\u as ~L'f:iss-:\lat:r-::\Etit:f: SuOscriptiou pnce Five c.:eitts a. culJY ; $3.UO a. ) t:ai , dt:IJn: rt:d-:--3.11-Y\~ ht.:re in the United States. :Senior Board Armand V. Feigenbaum ........................... Editor-in-Chit'f Kappa :\u lJou~'t'· t-7:~:n Laskar Schwartz ............................... Bu:;iness Manager Kappa '\:u Uuu~t.,__- ·l-7:~:n Solomon Blechman ............................. Managing Editor ;i :\fillr\lp ~PI'titlll, ·\nrth l'Hllt>Mt'- li-99ti,(j Samuel Portnu~·..... . ........................... As~ociat<' Editor Kapp:\ :'\tl ll••ll'-'t' 1-i:~:~J Jonathan PParson .................................. Sports Editor :-iig;ma l 1 hi r•J:wt- t~ti\::1 J. Donald Haigh ............................. Circula-tion Manager Phi JlPlta 'rht·t a II ou~l:' \-1 ~·1 t Jmlior Board Robert Bishop Harvey Fishbone Robert Hayner Thomas O'Connor Granger Tripp Sophomore Board Thomas Cullen, William Hart, Albert Kronick, Edward Johnson, Arthur Pastore, Seymour Thickman REPRESSNTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers RePresentative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N. Y, CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS AtlGELES • SAN FRANCISCO Issue Editor ..................................... Harvey Fishbone Assistants Robert Hayner William Hart Thomas Cullen \Time out for a sandwich!\ The~ way to any man's heart, they say, is throug-h his ,;tomach, and Em- met Evans, '43, new, independant dispensPr of food, milk, and cigar- ettE's is currently E'arning a part of his college exprnses by filling the l respPctivP .tummies of hungry Union mE'n. I Evans took over the tasl{ of pro- viding thP vitamin~ campus stu- drnts find a nec•pssary pre1 E'quisitE' for their studies some three weeks a·go. In the com sP of the ·e:v~>ning:; sinC'E' then, the appearanl'e of Evans, his home-made metal food- case and his pack-basket filled with milk have become a familiar event . in the life of a studying undergrad- uate. Anytime between 9:30 and 11:30 these winter nights, residents of the dormitories, thr on-campus fra- ternities and two or three of the off-campus fratet nities may expect to see their traveling restau·lateur ready to sell them sandwiches, milk, candy or cigarettes. \.Students seem to like my wares,\ Evans said yesterday. \I've had only a few -complaints, and have done my best to remedy them. The loudest kick I heard was a r e- sult of the lac!{ of mustard on the ham and cheesP sandwiches. Now I cany a bottle of mustard with me. I try to answer student requests, and to give the fellows what they want in the way of food.\ Ave1·y Beer, currently collecting laundry on the campus, suggested that Evans teplace the decadent Student Service Bm·eau's \food man\ with a new food service. He got Miss Travis' permtsston to establish his route and subsequent- ly did most of the new set·vice's promotion himself. Concord-iensis columns, .fraternity and dormitory notices, and personal contacts pt·o- vided the bulk of ·the advertising for this new \time out for a sand- w.ich\ movement. - --~ ----~- ----- Enun.e~- Evans, '43, concluding a sale with Harold J. Limpert, '44, and Wilham E. Masse, '43. Limpert is attesting to the -goodness of his sandwich wllile Masse is undecided whether to spend his pennies for a pack of Chesterfields and a ham sandwich or a cheese sand- wich and a Hershey bar. ------------------ In the three weeks of operation, Evans has perfected a technique for his route which el-iminates con- fusion and centralizes the food- consuming activities in each of his several spheres of activity. He en- ters a dormitmy or fraternity house, gives notice of his arrival with the now familial' clarion call, and encourages his customers to collect in one central room. Thus those inhuman souls who aren't hungry during the evening are left in perfect soJ.Ltude. free to study away on their empty stomachs. ages of cigarettes. On his ,best night thus far, he fed the hungry students to the tune of nine dollars and fifty cents. Thursday, the fra- ternity meeting night, is the best night, as a rule, and Fridays, when, after all, the week-end bas really begun, is usually the worst. Friday, February 21, 1941 During an average evening's feeding, the Union student body consumes some 45 sandwiches, about 40 bottles of milk, 25 nickles worth of candy, and about 10 pack- ~------------------~-- Evans' metal food-carrier is per\ haps the most unique ·feature of his whole service. He designed and built the conveyance himself. The carrier holds tempting sandwiches of assorted varieties on one side, popular brands of c-igarettes and candy on the other. The basket on his 'bac·k holds Evans' supply of bottled milk, chocolate or plain, as I his customers prefer. 769 COMMITTEES OF ONE We feel that a student should take his college seriou:;:ly. Taking one's college seriou:sly involves respecting he1·, as well as attending her classes and observing her rules. There are men at Union who do not respect theh· college. Attending a small, private!~· endowed institution for four years of development and pleasure is an increasingly rare p1·ivi1ege. Entering Cnion means mm·e than making mailable for oneself an amazingly wide variety of opportunities for self development. It is equivalent to entering a fratemity ovet· ::;ix thousand st1·ong, a fmtemity whose I'oots g·o back one hundred forty-seven years, and one which has numbered an innumerable quantit.v of able men among its membership. Attending a college of Union's type involves not only the assumption of ordinary statutory obligations such as must be bome in any of the \glorified high schools.\ When a man enters Union, he immediate!~· becomes a pa!'t of a living, ever developing organism whose name will forever after be associated with his. To really respect Union implies that that man comes soon to feel that he, as a \committee of one,\ must assume relatively as much re:sponsibility for the growth of the college as any of the alumni, trustees, or college offi- cers. The attitude that Union means classes, grades, and rules-nothing more-has no more place here than it has in any body of men bound together by a fraternal tie. We do not mean this editol'ial to sound !il{e a rushing argument or a prospectus. We do, however, deplore this atti- tude that refuses to give college her due. Such an attitude is more than merely annoying. Small col- leges throughout the country are being confronted with ma- jor problem after major problem in these times in which the value of the intangibles that may be derived from such insti- tutions are being forgotten. In the solution of these prob- lems, undergraduates, even more than those who have for- mally become \foster-children\, should participate, if only to lend moral support. What this support could or should be would naturally vary with the individual. Whethe1· it means becoming one of 769 potential recruiting agents for the class of 1945 or building the reputation of the college by one's personal actions is un- important. The impot·tant facto1· is that, all together, under- graduates at Union College be factors of expansion and growth in the college, even at times when ohter colleges of similar i1ature are finding difficulties. c 0 m me n 1t a r y I Fraternity Notes Rappa Alpha- It may seem rather like worrying over a Christmas card list to start talldng again a·bout Gtaduate Rec- ord Examinations at this time of ~ear, but my madness bas a method. The fate of next year's Cat negie exams will be sharply af- fected by the attitude of a spring faculty meeting not far distant. If any student pressure grou·ps are to make themselves heard upon the subject, it is time that they be- came vocal. Victims for t-he most part agree that the exams are an infe1nal nui~­ ancP. ThPy resent appearing at eight a. m. and dcpat·ting four hours later saddle-sour and humili- ated. But .if out· objection is to a nuisance alone it will not prove enoug-h of a rallying cry for an effective opposition. The Gtaduate RPrord Examf', however, I believe, are franldy dan- gerous to the curricular life of the 2ollege as it now stands. They can- not be assimilated; they may, on the other hand, act as the roots of 1 new teaching progt am. G. R. E. Fallacies Of necessity the exams a1·e objec- tive. They test fact-accumulation and for the most pa1t, only that. The man who fares well is the one who reads with a retentive mem- ory. Dictated by thE' limitations of scaring techniques, this weighting of emphasis only follows the ruling obsession of modern American \:e3rnlng\ fl om kindergarten to Ph.D. But he! e at Union and at other intelligently staffed institu- tions, recently there has been a tendency to teach students to think as well as to learn. Some instruc- tors have tried to rate men less on what they know than upon what they can do in rounding up their own material, in analysing, intei- preting, and pi esenting it in organ- ized .fashion. Seniors, so treated, have found their misled activity reflected in non-flattering G. R. E. profiles. You say, however, \a tempest in a teapot. We admit that these exams are no bargain, ·but after all, they don't have all the dire signifi- cance you suggest.\ I'm not at all sure. When G. R. E. originated sev- eral yea·rs ago, they were just ·a happy little game. Not so now. The examiners are modest about their protege in the first half hour of a conversation. Then their epic con- fidence appears. Last year, I believe, a Union senior with a college stand- ing ·of last in his field led the group on the G. R. E. When queried on the matter by a department which had been working with the student for four yea! s, the Garnegie repre- sentative serenely replied, \I'm sorry, but you gentlemen will have to revise your estimate.\ G. R. E. are on the way to deter- min-ing entry to the best graduate schools in the country. Proponents state ·blandly, \They will not be used against you.\ W·hat is the ob- vious inference that any discerning Some of the Kaps will be found at the Williams Chapter house this Saturday for Freshman initiation there. Kappa Nu- There will be a house dance to- Il\Ot-row night. A meeting of the Capital District Alumni was held last Wednesday evening at the house. Kappa Sigma- An Alumni Smoker will be at the house tonight at 7:30. Phi Sigma Kappa- MPmbers and g-uests enjoyed a house dance last Saturday night. f';igma Phi- Membel s of Sigma Phi may also lw found at their Williams' Chap- ter House for freshman initiation this weekend. Thl\ta Delta Chi- A housP dance is now ~-lanneJ for :-.Iar·ch 8. -----0----- NOTICES Captains Lane and Townsend of the U. S. Army Flying Cadets will lead a placement discussion on Fri- day of this week in Silliman Hall at 7:30 p. m. All students, espe- cially seniors. are invited to attend. Please advise the Placement Bu- reau if you plan to attend. Information on the Army's Flight Training Program ·is available at the Placement Bureau. Flying cadets Ie~eive $75 per month in ad- dition to an allowance of $1 per day while undergoing training. ·Candi- dates must be unmarried citizens of the United States between 20 and 27 years of age. Next Monday evening, February i 24th, Mr. C. L. Heyniger, Headmas- ter of the barrow School, will lead a placement discussion on private school teaching. Seniors who plan to attend should notify the place- ment Bureau. On Tuesday evening next, Febru- ary 25th, Mr. Royce 0. Schermer- horn will lead a discussion on in- surance. Seniors are invited to at- tend this meeting. Call at the Placement Bureau for details. Placement discussions on law school and business administration are scheduled for Wednesday, Feb- ruary 26th. Full particulars are available at the Placement Bureau. Burges Johnson, Professor of English and Chairman of the Field of English, will speak this evening in Delmar under the auspices of the Delmar Progress Club. Dr. John- son's subject will be \The Lunatic Fringe in Present-Day Literature.\ admissions official at Harvard will mal{e if Oscar Jones of Union Col- lege <where they have G. R. E ) doesn't submit a profile with his application? However I am more worried about the possible effects of the ?xams upon undergraduate teach- mg. Which is grist for next week. John L. Lewis CALENDAR Tomorrow 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly, speaker, Dr. George Danton, \What Germans Brought to America,\ Memotial Chapel. · 10:20 a. m. -'Chemistry Depart- ment motion pictures, Old Chapel. 2:00 p. m.-Fencing, Union vs Siena, het;e. 2:30-o:30 p. m. Art Exhibit, Hanna Hall. 7 :CO p. m. FreshmaH basket- ball, Union vs. State Teachers College Freshmen, here. 8:15 p, m. Varsity basketball, Union vs. Trinity, here. Sunday 11:00 a. m.- Sunday Service; rtev. Charles C. Noble, Christ's Church, Glens Falls, N. Y, 2:30-5:30 p. m. - Art Exhibit Hanna Hall. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Me- morial Chapel 3:15-3:45 p. m. - Empire State Town Meeting of the Air: \Should We Prohibit Strikes in National Defense Indus- tries?\ Speakers are Andrew C. Doyle o.f the State Media- tion Board and John A. Zell- ers, new president of the Rem- ington Rand Corporation. pr eacber, Memorial Chapel. 4:00-5:00 p. m, -- Organ recital, Monday 7:30 p. m. - Defense Training Classes. 7:30 p. m. - Band rehearsal, Gymnasium. 8:00p.m.- -Mountebanks movies, Old Chapel. Tuesday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, A. Arthur Davis, '41, speaker, Me- morial Chapel, 1:30-3·:30 p. m.-Recot d concert, Memorial Chapel. 4:30 p. m.-Faculty Tea, Hale House Lounge. chj go' ni~ tht thE COl thE tw bu WII up or ill{ let btl me tee ttj plE ch dii tin SOl thj In I bo flc po re co ch in th pi bo W( ua 1;'0 fa gn gB ec w to V< dl l€ h~ u ( B IE tl tl p n

to vs bit, Y, us- ell- A. ale THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1941 Captain Again! - I $11 Trinity Quintet Here Tomorrow! ,J 1\ (~ ll. I As Dutchmen Close Court Season $ Co-Captains Turchick, Rathlev PlayLast Games;! Cubs Meet Albany State Frosh in Prelimina·ry \ $ Will somebody please tell the cheerleaders that they misccd a good basketball game w .. dne>oday ni§ht? They didn't seem to~ !mow there was one, for we iictn't 'e\ them in their usual flrs·~-row-- mid- court vantage point. Of com se, they are only heard from once or twice per game as a ru](-) anyway, but those sporty white sweaters wtth the big garnet emblems l·iven up the crowd considerably. Five hundred and fifty-eight Union College students miss- I ed the best basketball ga!'l1e of the year Wednesday night. 1 The 211 faithful ulldergl'aduates who were on hand were I. treated to a pleasant surprise, the varsity baf;kethall team 1 turned on the heat and won its first game of the season, up- ! setting a favored Williams five, 45-10 in a whale of a battle.; I Tomorrow night Co-CaptainB AJ ·!r-'--- -- I Big Ten of College Intramural Cagers PlayPr- G i I I F J>l * * When the \Garnet\ nMkes its appearance next June, we't•t• one of thE\ guys who'll ask whut those mugs in the whitt> ~wPat­ ers with the garnet <\mhlenu; ever did to deserve a pictm·e in the yearbooli. Turchick and \Mickey\ Rathlev and la-nky Ed Bartlett will play their last basketball game for Union. They'll lead t·heir forces out agaimt Trinity in the last game of the 1940-41 sea,;on. Union will be after its third victory of. Jnnt>s, Delta Chi 55 the campaign againEt a team which Molyneaux, Alpha Dt>lt .. 45 William<' beat, 46-37, last week Epstein, Phi Sig. Ht>lta .. 38 Albany State's yearlings wi'll play l/uh-hius, Delta Upsilon 34 the Garnet cubs i·n the prelimi-. C'op{Jola, Delta Chi ..... 32 7 4 3 7 3 117 I ~~;., A 94 i -~c~ ~s I '- ~5 I +:W.\\ ~z I . ' * * * nar'y, Perhaps it is too much to ex- pect more than a third of the stu- dent body to turn out for the games. However, ward is getting lt might be rather fitting if one around about the stirring exhibi- or two of our cheerleader, a:nd tion agaiBst Williams and it may more than a handful of our be that a large delegation will lethargic student body managE'd to· waR to be on hand to give the snuggle up to the gymnasium to-, vae~ity cagers their final send-off. morrew night. Union's basketball, Trinity is pretty much of an un- team is playing its finaJ game of known quantity, as it hasn't r·un tte season aga,inst Trinity. A cou- into a Union team on the court in several seasons. The Hartford pie of grand co-captains, Al Tur- chick and \·Mickey\ Rathlev, will quint rolled up a 62-46 advantage direct their Dutchmen for the last over Swarthmore some time ago time. Maybe they wouldn't mind if and has been turning in good ac- somebody showed up to watch counts of itself against New Eng- them. land opposition all season. Then the Blue and Gold five went to the other extreme in losing to Yale, 74-40. Sandwiched in between these games was a 54-53 triumph over a good Mass. State machine. * * * TherP were so fpw peoplP at one of the rec<>nt games that nobody even noticPd the Eski- mo .pie someone left stranded on the scorer's table. The thing was put there sometime during the intEirmission and gradually melted away. Finally Bob For- est could resist temptation no longer, he ate what was left of the thing just before Ed Fitz tw\'Ied t.he final light out in the gym. * * Givt> Us Mort>! Unpredictable as usual, the var- sity basketballers turned in what even the oldtimer·s among the many alumni present agreed: was one of the most courageous performances ever seen here as they tripped Wil- liams. Setting out like a fire-engine, the Garnet attack kept up a rapid pace until the blaze was out and the Art Lawrence is open for com- :18th Union victory in 26 games with men ts on the proposed all-college bowling tournament. If there is suf- . Williams was safely stowed away. flcient interest, he wouldn't be op- The vi.\itor·s staged two determin- . ed rallies to tie the score at 15-all posed to running one off. With the midway in the first half and again regular season over, the tourney, at 36-all halfway through the sec- consisting of doubles and singles ond 20 minute session. championships, could be completed With 15 minutes to play the in one or two afternoons. Prior to Dutchmen had a 32-24 lead. The the affair· each contestant would d vi~itor·s fought back to a 36-36 tie pick a partner. Then all woul with nine minutes remaining. But bowl three games and the scores would count for both the individ- held to two points by a tight :wne ual and two-man event. defense, the Ephmen succumbed to a late Union attack instigatec' * * by Hank Wysocki, who chucked in Tht>re's mort> than rhyme to ~ix points for the victory margin. tht> story of \Handshakt>r\ Bob Murray's 14 points sparked Baker. Ask Bob when you sef' an awe-inspiring Alumni team to a him! (Continued on Page 4) Over at Williams there's been f'Dme sort of political movement for \Union Now.\ Mistaking the or- ganization's title for a sports slo- gan, a freshman reporter remark- ed after Wednesday's game that Williams, like Brooklyn, would have to wait till next year. * • * Training rules are being flag- SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper. One Step frorr State Stree1 :!,llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!:: Also Hallenbet'k, Belta Chi, 67; Glenn, Phi Sigma Rappa, 67; Bt·own, Nappa Nu, 66, and Reilly, Beta Theta Pi, 61. ---0----- Spring Grid Drills Off to Fast Start Spring football training began with a bs.ng yesterday. Forty-five candidate• appeared in the Trophy room and Coach Nels Nitchman outlined to them what constitutes the most ambitious spring program he has yet attempted. Omen-be- lievers may find some significance in the number of gridders report- ing. There were also 45 men out the spl'ing before the undefeated campaign of 1939. BeginBing Monday, the football- ers will be introduced to ~orne very hard indoor drills. They will con- tinue .for two week~. after which individual wor!{ will be put in out- doors. Coaches Nitchman and AI Ciampa will be assisted by Art Law!'ence, who may be available more than usual because of the light schedule his baseballers face this spring. BOB BAKER • Bob Baker added the captaincy uf hockey to his sports laurels yes- terday as his teammates of the 1 ink elected him to head the 1941- 42 var·sity sextet. The high-scoring centet· had already ·been chosen: cnptain of the 1941 football team. Executive positions have been cnnferi ed upon the popular Al- banian one after another since he came to Union. He has served the c-lass of 1942 as president in his freshmaR and junior years and as vice-president in its sophomore sea- son. Baker also heads the Garnet Key Society and is a member of the student council. Fraternally, he is affiliated with Chi Psi. In. his freshman year on the gtid- iton Baker demonstrated why he was chosen on Albany's all-scho- lastic football f.rom Albany High, where he captained the football team. His mates elected him cap- tain of the 1938 yearling eleven here. Baker won his freshman numerals in football, hockey and lac!'osse. Block U's have come his way in varsity football and he has won his \hUt\ in hockey the last two winters. PINE GROVE DAIRY, INC . 61 ER!~ BOULEVARD PHONE 4-7741 rantly yiolatt>d at Wesleyan. The Wesleyan Argus has a col- unmist who says so. We quote \- . • Wesleyan athletic teams have been violating training ru1es so flagrantly and to such an excessive degree that their playing efficiency h!'s been se- verely hampered. It is expected that those t'oncerned will rec- tify this situation immediately.\ ~ It's the = ~ KELLY FACTORY _ . * * * Co-Captains of Lafayette's 1941 varsity football team have got their draft questionnaires and another l'egular gridman is expecting. Per- haps things could be worse at Union. * * Phi Sigma Rappa's intl'a- mm•al bowling team at Wor- cester Tech sp01•ts a season av- erage of 186.7. Kappa Sigma ru1es supreme on the intra- mural court at the University of Vermont too. The Vermont chapter of the Union group re- cently scored a 37-15 victory over Phi Sigma Something. ~---01--- Delta Upsilon Upset By Alpha Phi Delta Confusion reigns today in East- ern division of the intramural bowling league. The second-place Alpha Phi Delta five came through with two wins over the league- leading Delta Upsilon keglers to creep into a tie with the latter. Chi Psi took the odd game from Psi Upsilon it\ the other match yes- terday as the regular bowling sea- son closed on the Reuter's drives. The first two teams in each league will ·engage in a roll-off for tbe championship of their respec- tive loops. An all-star five will be picked to meet R.P.I. at Troy early next month. ~ for the Best ~ in Smart Clothes § At Prices _ §You Can Afford to Pay§ ~ Featuring Authentically ~ E Styled University Clothes ~ = = = = - - - - = = = = - - KELLY - - CLOTHES INC. - 621 River St., Troy §z Blocks North of Hoosick St.E: i.uumumulmtmnmmumlllllllllll~ · Which White Shirt Would You Pick? TRUMP SAYS: DART SAYS: GORDON SAYS: WE SAY: Choose me. I have the longest-wearing soft collar of any shiJ:t. I cost just .. $2 Pick me. I have the longest-wearing non-wilt collar on earth. I'm a bargain at ....••.•••.•••••••••••... $2.25 Take me. I'm O.K. for both sport and business and the most popular oxford shirt in America. $2 is all I cost! Pick all three! They're all Arrows, all Sanforized Shrunk, fabric shrinkage less than 1%. And you need them all in a well-rounded wardrobe! See them here today-and see if you can .resist taking them home! NlH7§!l~VM:? -. ........... ~~ow \..__§f!IRTS Boxers. Matmen Are Tuning Up Page Three List S(hedule , For Nine's First How many of last year's· college 1 boxing and wrestling champions \Sout.he·rn T-r 1 ·:p will -defend their crowns in the· . forthcoming 14th annual tourna- ment of grunts, groans• and flsti-: Southern Pennsylvania is going cuffs won't be known until the en- to have the treat of watching try 'deadline a,rrives March 1.: Union College's baseball team this Judging from the furtive training, April on its first spring trip in activities being conducted by _sev- the history of Garnet athletics. era! individuals at the gymnasiUm, Coach Art Lawrence announced many of the old faces will be back. yesterday that he will take his No man wii.l be allowed to en-. Dutch nine \south\ for a series of ter both departments of the tour- four games dm ing the Easter va- ney, but a goodiy turnout is ex- cation. pected by the athletic department. Returning from their sojourn i-n A new ruling this year will fore- the \tropics\ the D1:1tchmen will stall the fasting which brought· play a series of six road games to many a beefy heavyweight dowB round out their 194:1 baseball sea- into the 165-pound class on weigh- son. The face-lifting of Alexander ing in day. Too often these one-day Field will not permit any use of 165-pounders were back up to 180 the campus diamond this spring. again by the time their bouts roll- Hal W-ittner, director of athletics, ed around. Contestants will be re- said yesterday that R.P.I. had de- quired to take to the scales befor·e clined to play a ,Commencement each match. They mu~t box o1· Day game here to inaugurate the wrestle _wi_thin thr~e po~nds of th_e newly rebuilt field. He continued upper hmrt of therr werght class!- that the possibility of scheduling fication. If overweight, they must !!orne other team at this late date default. was \rather remote.\ Individual Medals Individual medals will be award- ed in eac·h class. Entrants will win points for their fraternity or dorm- itory group, but shall lose 10 points for each forfeit or default. Boxing bouts will go three rounds, or less, with each stanza lasting two minutes, or less. In case of a draw, one extra round will be boxed, after which a de- cision must be rendered. Pugilists will be classified according to weights as bantams, feathers, lights, welters, middles, light heavy- weights and heavyweights. Union's baseball schedule for the coming season follows: Easter trip - Westchester State Teachers at Westchester, Pa:., April 2; Le- high University at Bethlehem, Pa., April 3; Moravian College at Beth- lehem, April 4; and Hofstra College at Hempstead, L. I., Ap1 il 5. Reg- ular schedule-Mass. State, April 22; Hamilton, May 3; Williams, J\'Iay 5; Rochester, May 16; Roches- ter, May 17; R.P.I., May 31. There will be no freshman base- ball games this spring. -----0•--- Sinks 23 of25 Fouls Wrestling matches will be sched- uled for six minutes. If the match· South College's Jim Smith shat- ends with a time advantage of less tered the old foul shooting record than 60 seconds for the best man, yesterday morning as he caged 23 the competitors will wrestle an ex- of his 25 shots in intramural com- tra three-minute period. The win- petition. The previous mark was ner shall be with the time advan- 21. He hit the mark on all but his tage. Wrestling classes will be the. rth_il_-d_a_n_d_fi_f_t_h_::b_o_ts _______ ..., same as boxing. Pairings will be posted by March 3 and the finals are scheduled for Saturday night, March 22. Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 BltEAD - ROLLS - PASTRY F 0 R Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General Arrow Shirts Ice Cream Corp. - Homer Flunked Out! N o wonder . • . he never had time to do his lessons. His domestic duties kept him too busy! Homer's chief trouble was butto11s ... unfaithful little perforated disks that kept coming off his shirts (which weren't Arrows). While other guys were out dating on weekends, you could always find Homer nimbly thimbling a needle. Why didn't someone tell him about Arrow Shirts with anchored buttons? They never come off! They're as permanent as the fine style and fit of all Arrow shirrs. Arrow whites are all-time favor- ites. As all Arrows they have the Mitoga tailored tit and the one and only Arrow collar in a variety of styles to suit your type. Stock up on Arrows today. $2 up. ARROfl/ SHIRTS

Page Four h M . · 'Sage Girls Awed Dutc . · .1n1ster · . h I d . By Unzon Men Sees Net: er an s. By LAS·KAR sCHWARTZ. '41 Remaining Free Loudon Says Indies Ready to Fight Nazi Invasion Without Aid The army in the Netherlands laid dawn its arms but the govern- ment of ltUeen Wilhelnuna wtll never surrender as lGng as fight-: ing is necessaty or pos~ible ... ~he Dutch· place their hape tn Bttttsh, and Ametican help, the Han. Alex- ander Loudon, special envoy of' Queen Wilhelmina and minist.er to. the United .States from Hol'land told an audience of about 600 Wed- nesday night in Memoi'ial ChapeL The Dutch are willing to ga on guffering, to give more blood and more tradition. but it is not for them to decide the feasibility of carrying on, Dr. Loudon declart>d. But no nation's cause is hopeless while it reeeives inspiration and h0pe from sueh people as the· Netherlanders in America who \in- spJ.re us\ and in return \we will re- deem the heritage of your forefa- thers and ours, because it is clean, righteous and human,\ he added. Fund for Ne-therlands .Sponsored by the Queen Wilhel- mina Fund which has taised more than $3,000 in Schen·ectady. tl!l' Dutch diplomat wa~ pn•ceded b:, President Dixon Ryan Fox of L'nion College. Dr. Fox, president of the New York State Historical· Association, traced the history of the Dutch Empire and nation, prais- ing the \tough and vibrant reserve in the spirit that has been there for 1500 yeats,\ Both speakers were in- troduced by Mayor Mills Ten Eyck, A running, moving commentary of two films on the Netherlands was g;ven by Dr. E. H. B. Bartelink. During the interval between speak- ers, a collection was taken for bene- fit of the Queen Wilhelmina Fund. Dr. Loudon appealed to the audi- ence not to look upon him or the Netherlands with a feeling of pity, fur \pity we do not ask for.\ Describing the five day conquest of the lowlands, and a \nation suffering today in the name of free- dom and democracy,\ Dr. Loudon a::;serted that the German invasion \was made at 3 a. m., without \arning despite a treaty that the :Ketherlands would be im·aded un- der· no circumstances. \The only things to bP said to our glory and to those who died there,\ the minister stated, \is that it took five day:l instead of l'he expected 24 hours for the Nazis to conquer Holland.\ ----0--- Smith Discusses Plan To Send Food Abroad \Continued from Page 1) the recent European English blocl{ade. He began immediate ac- tivity with the group, whose chair- man is former Prefident Herbet·t Hoover. Since then, \young Mr. Smith\ has been almost constantly on the move. travelling from one college to the other, not soliciting funds. but attempting to create' stt·ong stu- dent opinion on the plan, and, with other members of his committee. has been meeting with more than moderate euccess. No less than 300 colleges now have active groups working for the movement. and :Mr. Smith consider·ed the local De- mocracy group, with its connec- tions with other colleges in the area, an important cog in the col- legiate machine. UP TO DATE STYLES $4.85 up Collegiate at Fit PATTON & HALL 245 State St. ReaHy, t·he men of Union owe the girls of Russell Sage an apology. Or at least seventeen of them do., A gang of the boys traipsed over to Tt·oy to participate with the gil Is in a forum on \The Un.f0lding of American Democracy.\ The boys were completely unprepared. That, is, thry did not !mow exactly what they wet e supposed to d0, outside. of being the guest of 'beautiful Sage gkl:; at dinner. It was a shock to every one 01 them following such things as a pleasant bull-session and singing to, the girls at dinner in the Dining Hall to be thrust into a dormitor} hall alone, with thirty girls. Every one of the boys was self conscious about several things, pt obably. No, one of the fellows meant to be ob- ti usive, to violate the rules of gen- tlemanly conduct laid down by Fred W;~-att <and distributed with tuition teceipts.) 'Quill' Editorial However, from the tone of the editorial which appeared in the nE'xt issur of the \Russell Sage Quill,\ either the boys underesti- mated their sex appeal, or they were mistaken for R. P. I. men. From this point on we quote from the Sage editorial: \Last fhur sday night we participated in the most inter·esting forum of the year. In the discussion that invari- ably follows these weekly meetings m the 'drug' or the dormitory liv- ing rooms, student sentiment was revealed as showing definite ap- proval. No grunts or gt oans were heard anywhere. The obvious rea- ~un for this enthusiasm was the addition of seventeen Union men to out· meetings. This was some- thing new and different. The mon- otony of each group had been re- lieved by a new face and some new ideas. However, we feel that the real reason for the success of these forums goes deeper than this. 'Everyone must admit that ea·ch of the guest speakers immediately tool> command of the situation. Each was the possessor of a wealth of knowledge, in comparison to our rather scanty repel loire. Conc1 ete examples were given; v.Jews and ideas that we had never thought of were presented. In other words, we, who at·e in a familiar sHuation, wet e surpassed by outsidet·s who were in unfamiliar surroundings. Thi~ is the bone of contention. \Why is it that these boys had such a complete command of their know.ledge? Not all of them were history or government majors. In one instance, the guest leader apol- ogized, :befot e the meeting began, saying that he was afraid that his knowledge of the subject was lim- ited because he was majoring in engineering. This 'limited' knowl- edge left everyone with her 'mouth hanging open.' It was evident that he knew a great deal more about the subject than anyonP else in the room! \We can rationalize this matter by saying that it's natural for boys to know more about this field, be- cause. as a w.hole they't e m01·e in- terested in it than girls. They will need this knowledge when they 'get out into the world.' Perhaps the reason is that boys can speak better than girls, enabling them to present their knowledge in b!'t- ter form. It even might be the age- old ability of the mal!' to dominate.\ The male ego distinctly enjoys being flattered. This f!'eling of pleasure w,hen the female of the species breaks down ahd pats us on the back may hark back to the feelings of the cave man, when the female more or less tacitly admit- ted that her \other half\ was \a good man.\ Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 DELIVERIES AND SHOE REPAIR SERVICE FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF OUR CUSTOMERS GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Cor. Barrett Call Ball and Ball Will Call Simply Phone 6-9419 PHONE 6-3456 THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1941 Homework .· ,: Student Involves Doty, 'Uncle Adolf' in Poll In commenting on one of the questions in the I. R. C. poll, one sophomore engineer ventured . the opinian that if Britain were defeated,. the Nazis would come ; to New York City and taw away the Statue of Ltberty on a coal bg,rge, and on the next trip they would steal the Union Ido·J. A classmate commented that in- stead of speculating on this question we might ask \Uncle Adolph.\ Anather sophamo:re felt that we should go to war immediate- ly, and he also presented a plan in which we should \send an im- · mediate ex•peditionary force : composed of freshmen and offi- cered by Drs. Coffin and Doty.\ Anti-Strike laws Willi~ams Bows In Court Upset (Continued from Page 2) 29-24 victory over the freshmen in the preliminary. :rn command all the way, the grads didn't look as if they had lost any of their old skill. The yearlings gat some goad exnerience. Their defense was stiii . ragged. They'll conclude their sea- son against the Albany State ' Teachers' fl'0sh in tomort·ow night's · preliminary startiug at 6:45 o'clock. Coach Al CiAmpa expects to use his regular lineup. • To Be Discussed Among WednEl.\'day night's high- lights was a new recor·d for the hidden alarm clock. The noisy time- .piece, which was previously heard from at the Hobart game, sounded off three times, but didn't bather anyoue much .... Williams players resembled ghosts in the secand half with their billowy \T\ shirts. voach Dale B11rnett had ordered them so his men could distingui~h themselves from their Union faes. ... Each of the Union starters tal- Bed at least three points against Williams in the first half. Rathlev :ed with six. '; I Residents of South Section, South College, have been carrying on a contest to seE' how many nrlce ·each man can catch, Richard K. Watanabe, '43, pre-med, is pictw-ed disecting one of the mice. Note skin drying on board. Students Program • zn Have Defense Varied Train'ing Opinions A dozen students from the eve-'•'---------- ning national defense courses who were interviewed in a quarter hour quiz just before classes started Wednesday night, said that most of the night school students were tak- ing the course for \indefinite\ ad- vancement in industry and in some instances had specific promotions in mind. Two men who are study.jng in the Production and Cost Control course were the only quizzees to have spe- cific adverse criticism of the courses. Steel worket·s in a local shop, they complained that the in- structors were teaching exclusive General Electric methods which were of little use in other busi- nesses. Miss Margaret Sutliff, only wom- an interviewed, a clet\ical worker for the state department of labor employment division, has an un- usual pur pose in taking the Produc- tion and Cost conl!ol course. W. H. Allison, a mechanical engi- neer at the American Locomotive company, is also taking the Pro- duction and Cost Control course. A graduate of Clarkson, he thinks the course \very good for a fellow who has ambition to take it, for it gives knowledge which would be other- wise unattainable.\ Erwin Lenz. a University of Wis- consin graduate in mechanical engi- neeting and· a special apprentice at the Locomotive worlm just \likes\ the course in \Design of highly sttessed structures and apparatus.\ George Grube of the General Electric cost department praised the course on Ptoduction and Cost Control as \the best thing of its type I've ever taken,\ and \anyone entering into industry would do well to take such a course.\ J. P. Jordan, an electrical engi- neer in GE radio department, thought that the course in calculus \doesn't go enough into the deep end, and not elemental enough to take without previous experience.\ Joe DeMartino, a toller operator at the American Locomotive, is learning to read prints on operating his roller and also thinks that his course in Drafting and Drafting room practice will be a good insur- ance policy against unemployment when the defense work slacks. UNION MEN Be completely well groomed Get a Haircut - ACME BARBER SHOP \\'here Servire is a Pleruoure 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. CAFFERS COAL COKE FUEL OIL Call 4-3354 \ JAMES RESTAURANT 426 STATE STREET We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests Noted Industrialists To Consider Problem As Sunday Meeting The advisability of anti-stri·ke legislation for National Defense in- d.ustries will be the topic of discus- sian at the Empire State Town Meeting in Old Chapel on Sunday. The prog1 am will be broadcast ove1 WGY from 3:15 to 3:45. The discussion leaders will be John A. ZeHers, vice-president of the Remingtan-Rand Corporation, and Andrew C. Doyle, regional di- rector for upper New York State for the State Mediation Baard. Mr. Zeller is making a study of labor relations in National Defense indus- tries for the National Association of Manu·facturers. The increasing number of strikes in aircraft and other industries handling government orders is tightening the bottle neck through which flow National Defense ma- terials, President Fox said in an- nouncing the discussion. Organ Recital I Overture to \William Tell\. Rossini Dawn on Lake Luzerne The Storm The Calm after the Storm Finale II Andante Cantabile for String Quartet . . . . . . . . . . . Tchaikowsky Saftly Now the Light of Day, Hymn tune arranged by Reynolds Liebestraum ........ _ ...... Liszt III Moonlight Sonata ..... . Adagio Sonata Pathetique Adagio Minuet in G IV Beethoven Finlandia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sibelius Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUk MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction\ • 598 B'way- For Better Values Williams Sportsmanship Goaded somewhat by the crowd, Williams held up very well under fire, much to its cred.Jt. Even in defeat, the visitors from Williams- tGwn were genial, shaking hands with their many Union friends and congratulating them on theil· team's victory. Incidents like this one which mal{e us wonder if may- be the fanced bitterness of the Union-Williams rivalry lies on the western side of the Hudwn. See you tomorrow night, we hope. Wil- tiams game summary: Union- G Macomber, rf ......... 3 Jakabowski, rf ........ o Carnwright, If ........ 3 Rathlev, c . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Santee, tg ............ 3 Turchick, lg . . . . . . . . . . 2 Wysocki, lg . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Totals ............... 18 Williams- G Wallace, rf ........... 1 Quintant, rf ........... 3 Bush, If . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Boyer, If .............. 0 Barnes, c . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Harter, rg . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 McNally, rg .......... 0 Tolles, lg .............. 4 Totals ............... 16 F 1 0 1 3 2 2 0 9 F 1 0 1 0 2 2 0 2 8 p 7 0 7 11 8 6 6 45 p 3 6 3 0 6 12 0 10 40 Score at halftime- Union 22, Wil- liams 17. Fouls committed-Union 10, Williams 12. Referee-Heifer- nan. Umpire-Chapman. GET YOUR HAIR CUT The Remodelled SANITARY BARBER SHOP Next to the Union Inn LISTEN TO Artie SHAW Play \Concerto for a Clarinet\ ON VICTOR RECORDS Truly a great l'ecord played by a great artist AT Cluett & Sons 202 STATE STREET For a Real Treat Try--- • HOT BUTTERED RUM and • LOBSTER on a • COLD NIGHT at PELOP'S RESTAURANT STATE ST.-Near Proctor's GAZETTE PRESS Printers • z \i f ' f st Cl t! tl w o· e· S'~ s1 tl fl tc si ti e· rr n tE ir c' u rr c s N J E VI s VI c p d c f: n n p VI n c it g j' r d v t b j I f

in ail as old 00d ht's use the me- ded 0na 0es. tal- inst in and this the the See p 7 0 7 11 8 6 6 45 p 3 6 3 0 6 12 0 10 40 Freshmen Dr. Cowley Dance Sticks With Saturday Hamilton Z-511 VoL LXIV., No. 35 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y .. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1941 PRICE FIVE CENTS =========~-~~~~-r~=~~~--~~-~-~~===;i='-\--~-~-======-~=-~-------- ----------- ---~-- ---- -~- ---- ------- ----~~~~~====== Frosh P:lan .Red, White Decorations For Annual Dance 'Mona Lisa' Inspires Comment of Freshman Dr. Overton Luhr Address by T. V. Smith Highlights Requests Release A I . . b :!II d f u·. . Michael Angelo's master.piece \Mona Lisa,'· wru; the topic of discuo;sion in Mr. Cadman His- lop's Saturday mor·ning Fresh- man English Class. After long Leave -~~ua Jn __ u.te to foun ers o mon Judge Hinman Will Present Speaker: Skidmore Bus Places Still Open as Ticket Sales Spurt in Drive \This pleasant, complacent face has baffled the critic3 for centuries,\ Mr. Hislop comment- ed. \Now what is your first 1 e- action to her expression?\ MIT Grad and Studer Investigated Helium Ions; Health Failed Various Etudents readily (·X- A canopy motif of red and white pres:oed their Gpinions when one Dr. Overton Luhr, who came tP streamers was decided upon at a of the more serious vein offered Union as assistant professor of committee meeting yesterday as this radical criticism: physics in 1934 and has been on the central decorative theme of \If any gal ever looked at me leave of absence since September the third annual freohman hop like that, I'd slug her~· , 1937 with the exception of one sem- which will attr:;:.ct Larry Audette's ester, has found it necessary to re- Coffin Coins Two Words for Science. Tongue Twisters Will Simplify Terminology For Hormone Research orcheEtra to the campus Saturday sign because of continued ill health, Pre\ident Fox announced today. Professor Har!'ison C. Coffin, pro- evening. C'h • t\ t M k Given leave of absence in 1937, fessor of Greek, pnt an ancient Ian- Chairman Richard MaC'l,enzie : r·ls la,ns 0 , a r Dr. Luhr returned to his classes in guage to a modern use recently said this morning that t!leJ'e are Septembel·, 1938 but was obliged to when he suggested two new words still a number o.f vacant ~Pats on Lent. .l:n M. a~.ny w· ays leave again in January 1939, to take to science in collaboration with H. the bus which will tran<port d[ltes up 1 esidencc which it was hoped B. Van Dyke of the Squibb Tnsti- from Skidmore and return them would be temporary in California. tute for Medical Research. to Saratoga, according to p<>rmis- C II C •t According to D,·, Fox, he now re- Asked to provide an adequate · 1 f th 11 R o ege ommum y s1on rues o . e co egg. eserva- ports improvement but feels that name for such long medical termin- tions must be made by tcmol'l'ow. Has Weekly Services the more rigorous climate of Sche- ology as the \follicle stimulating\ Accm·ding to late stati,ticr. tic\{.. nectady would impede complete re- and \interstitial cell-stimulating\ ets are Eelling rapidly, but bids On Friday Evenings covery. He expects to remain in hormones of the anterior lobe of may still be obtained from Cor- California to pursue research in the the pituitary body, Dr. Coffin turn- nelius Dandereau, ticket commit- The Christian season of Lent, California Institute of Technology ed etymologist to supply the two tee chairman, or from tha fJllow- which starts tomorrow, will be ob- or the state university. As oppor- names. ing fraternity representatives as served on the campus by weekly tunity offers, he will resume teach- Writing in \Science\ magazine contained on a revised list drawn devotional services Friday evenings ing in that region. for January 17, Dr. Coffin suggest- up by President John Clowc: at 5:15 in the Memorial Chapel ed as a common suffix of both hor- Judd Grey, Robert Rolf,,, Sey- chancel. Throughout the world, Givt>n Resparch Grant manes, the term \kentrin\ !from a mour Thickman, Robert Zell, Bruce Christians will gather, some with While at Union, Dr. Luhr collab- Greek verb meaning to goad or Clements, Robert Heywood, Clair bombers circling overhead, to com- orated with Dr. Frank Studer of stimulate). Smith, Abram Molyneaux, Nick memm-ate the pre-Easter season. the physics department in a study Origin Is GrePk Milano, James Smith, Paul Myers, Chaplain Herbert Houghton re- of the efficient sources of helium \follicle- John Barton, Donald Beal, Edw<trd ferred the origins of Lent to two ions as desired in connection with !'n 1 apt pr~ix for the h d Beargeon, Marvin Cramer, Sher- possible sources, either the forty the disintegration of atoms. A re- stlmu ating\ arm one is furnis e k ~~~~p~re~~c~a~~th~a~::;::~.p~~: ~~t~~;~ c;~~~f~~~~sto;afh!n f~~t~ t~:~ fc~;t ~~~ef~~e~;h~~sm=:;~a~i:e~s~ :~i~h~e ~~:~~~o~ !~!;~~~i~~o::~~ war·d Smith. and Dean Oakc.;;. that He fasted in the desert. Evolu- grant of $375 by the National Re- of a Mediterranean fish were de- Tickets are al<o on sale at the tion of the custom, regardless of its search Council for research on the veloped, hi reasoned. College Bookstore, priced at $1.10 or1g1n, offers a wide variation \Source of Doubly Charged Helium Th·.: word \Thylakentrin\ was the per couple or Etag. throughout the world today. Ions.\ result. Donald Niles, '44, has be<>n in- American Catholics are prohibited Commenting on Dr. Luhr's resig- Prefixing the word \meta\, mean- duce'd to cperate a Coca-Cola con- during Lent from eatine: fish and nation, Dr. Fox said. \We are sorry . b t t th f d ~ indeed to lose Professor Luhr from mg among or e ween, 0 e su · cession at the affair to provi e re- flesh at the same meal and refrain fix, Dr. Coffin coined the second freshment. from meat on each Friday and Union College. With the sound word, \metakentrin for the \inter- The decorations committee an- Wednesday of the Lenten season. training of the Massachusetts Insti- stitial cell-stimulating\ hormone. nounced that the red and \'lhite Episcopal churches in America tute of Technology behind him, and Dr. Coffin did his first work as !l motif will include several \sur- also observe this custom althougll his attractive and cooperative per- word-maker in collaboration with prise\ features and that bo.lloons th p t t t t' 1 sonality an ever present stimulus to Dr. Samuel L. Leonard. former will be released during the dane~ 0 er ro es an congrega IOns se - students, he was an able teacher in dam do. Often one class or specific our classes. Union professor of biology now at Paul Myers and Judd Grey. chair- article of food or pleasure is \given Rutgers. Another faculty member at men of decorations·, have isoued a up\ for the observance of the pre- \In general life at the college Rutgers, Professor Nelson, asked call for volunteer help in decu•·at- Easter period. Mrs. Luhr will be missed quite as him to formulate a word for the ing the gymnasium. A ba;oketba!l much. Certainly the ~ood wil~ and hormone which stimulates an oys- game a:t 3 p.m necessitates a '!Uick In Gr·eece, Demetrius Calogirou, g~od hope o~ all at. Umon contmues ter to pum water. Dr. Coffin sug- job and a large corps of workel'& is '44, reveals, members of the Ortho- With them m therr careel' on the gested the Pword \diantlin\ for this dox Church refrain from eating other side of the continent.\ t requested. h erm Commenting on the dance, Presi- flesh or animal products during t e Dr. Vladimir Rojansky, acting 1 · dent Clowe said: \It will be only entire Lenten P':lriod and ~n Wed- head of the physics department, to- o with the help and cooperation of nesdays ~nd Fndays refram fro~ 1 day expreosed the regrets of the Ed W ld E t t • the entire class that this dancOJ will eating ohves or food cooked m entire department faculty at Dr., na 0 n er atnS b::..:e:.....:..:a---su_c:..c...:.e_s\_ .. _· ___________ 1 _c_o_n_ti_n_u_ed_o_n_P_a_g_e _ 4 _> ___ L_u_h_r_':s_lo_s_s. At President's Reception Founder's Day Speaker Elucidates His Philosophy, Reconciliation of Moral and Political Tradition By PROFESSOR T.V. SMITH ~ $>from service in the Senate of Illi- Touched at birt:h with a philo- ,.---------------~ nois. \The Legislative Way of Life\ sophie turn of mind and caught in 1 EDITOR'S NOTE came from the years in Congress. youth by a poetic fancy, my .first . And in general carne \Lincoln: Llv- professional love was literature, ! For 146 years, Union Colle:;e ing Legend\ and I with Mr. Commis- especially poetry. I was, howe':er, has been educating youths who sioner L. D. W>hite> \Politics and quickly driven from the teach1~.g were to carry the ideals of Public Service\. It was a fancy that of literature into the study of phil- Minerva into the highest ranks both Senator Robert A. Taft and I osophy by the discovery that ~he of American government, into had toget-her that we might raise great arcs of insight from wh1ch the smallest universities, into the level of partisan controvers;~­ the poet snatches only segments the largest universities of Jearn- by perpetrating on the air debates must be traversed by means of the ing. that later went to make up the system-builders. But the philoso- But in this hour of challenge book, \Foundations of Democracy\. phers themselves I simply could to Democracy, Union crieo out to Through all this I have been an not read without trying in my own the patriot spirit which ener- avid seeker after Beauty, but most- fumbling way to be a philosopher. vated her Founders in their en- ly in the direction where Truth is Then followed in fashion more or dorsement of Democracy. She said to live. I have never laid hold Jess rapid a series of books w,hich recognizes, on the anniversary of yet upon Absolute Truth. but I have somehow got themselves written in her founding, one of the fore- touched the hem of Beauty's gar- spite of the distractions of a very most thinkers of the day, who ment. But I have learned this: that busy life <teaching, editing, dean- has turned from the halls of I am not God. It is a great lesson ing, lecturing, debating, radioing!: learning to the corridors of the for a man to learn. Ch1 onically as \The Democratic Way of L1fe • nation's government. In such a a man I have been trying to recon- \The American Philosophy of unity Democracy may well find cile in my own life, and show oth- Equality\ \The Philosophic Way its ~alvation. ers how to reconcile, two great but of Life\ \Beyond Conscience\ In this article, Professor-Con- inharmonious American traditions \Creative Skeptics\ \Philosophers greesman Smith has penned for The one is moral: a tradition which in Hades\ ·and \Philosophers Speak the undergraduates of Union teaches us from youth up that o-ood for Themselves\. Now, however, my College, at the request of \The men will not compromise the ;rin- dissatisfaction with myself set in on Concordiensis,\ a s u b j e c t i v e ciples by whieh they live. Tl:e another front. I saw by this time analysis of what might well be other is political: a tradition which more or less what the poets had termed, to pharaphrase Words- teaches us that a man must com- been about. I saw that it was good, worth's famed title, \Prelude- promise all issues in conflict or be but not enough. What I did not see or the growth of a philosopher's both a bad sport and a poor citizen with practical clarity was the mind.'' R. B. of a democracy. Out of that effort meaning of what I myself was say- at reconciliation in my own life of Edna Beglum Wold, daughter-in- law of Professor and Mrs. Peter I. Wold and wife of Ivor Wold, '34, was guest pianist at the annual re- ception of the faculty by President and Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox Saturday evenmg at the President's house. A graduate of the Julliard School of Music in New York City, and a native of Minnea.polis, Minn., Mrs. Wold last year was awarded a Naumberg prize, given annually to an outstanding American musician for graduate study in England. Be- cause of the wa·r, acceptance of the award has been postponed. Opening with a group by Baeh and Busoni, Mrs. Wold played \Come God Creator'' and \Awake the Voice is Calling Us.\ She con- tinued with \L'adieu \L'absence and \Le Retour\ from the \Sonata opus 81\ by Beethoven. Other· ren- ditions were: \Intermezzo E flat minor\ by Brahms, \Reflets danE L'eau\ by Debussy, and \Triana\ by Albeniz. ----·0---- Skidmore Chorus to Sing In Chapel Sunday Morn Sixty Skidmore College Chorus membe:os will Eing at the Memorial Chapel worship service Sunday as the Union choir will be on a tour to Binghamton and the tri-cities area. The Rev. Phillips Packer Elliot of the FirEt Presbyterian Church in Brooldyn will preach tho:! ser- mon. President Fox to T alkj Confer Degree Celebration of the 146th anniversm·y of the founding of Union College tomonow in exe1·cises climaxed by an address by T. Y. S1nith, philosopher and politician, will ma-rk the fifth anniversary of the Founde1·'s Day ceremonies instituted by President Fox in 1937 as an annual event. - -- ----~ Judg~> Harold J. Hinman of Al- w •11• R p 1 M : bans, a trustee of Union, will in- 1 lams . en trodUCP ProfP.SSOI' Smith who will ~ 1 spealt on \The Political Way of Recruit for Army Williams, RPI Grads Boom Army Air Corps As Job with Future Two U. S. Army Captains, one a Williams and the other an RPI alumnus, interviewed nine under- graduates, th1 ee of them \Concordi- ensis\ reporters, in a placement dis- cussion in the Old Chapel Friday evening. Captain Sidney J. Lane elabor- ated requirements and advantages of the Army air corps flying cadet division, equipped senior Dudley Holmes with application papers, converted two other \maybes\, and punctuated his remarks with an in- junction not to leave college to join the army, fm· \you'll do the Service more good when you've graduated.\ Supplementing Captain Lane's talk when a sophomore voiced the \fear\ of becoming a private under the draft laws, Captain R. K. Town- send, the Williams man, who rose from buck private to commander of a company, bluffly and humorously dispelled the notion that privates in the army are \kicked al'Dund by the office! s'' and said that \a man with a will and college level ability can get ahead in the Army.\ Train for Transport '~!'light Captain Lane began army work as an infantryman in 1917, and i< now assigned to the tas·k of flying cadet procurement. Explaining the nine month course ot instruction which leads to a sec- ond lieutenant's commission, Cap- tain Lane mentioned that flying during the three year enlistment period as an air corps reserve offi- cer offers almost 1200 hours flying, the requirement tor a transport pilot's liceme. He waE optimistic about the future in aviation not only for pilots but for adminiotra- tor.;; with pilot experience. The time to made application-- anytime. The place~ any U. S. Army recruiting station. Captain Townsend, a Sigma Phi, Captain Lane and Dr. Frederick L. Bronner, who represented the col- lege at the placement discussion, were guests of the Sigma Phi fra- ternity for dinner. 0---- NEWS IN BRIEF \Uncle Billy\ McClellan, the campu£' former mailman, is now improving after a recent siege of pneumonia, said James C. McDon- ald, Schenectady postmaster, to- day. A relapse has prevented Mr. McClellan from re:Issuming hiE po- sition. The postmaster stated that it was \dependent on his condition\ whether or not \Uncle Billy\ would be back. An executive committee meeting of thP Stude>nt CommittN• for De- mocracy will be held tonight at 7:30 o'clock in Russell Sage Hall in Troy, Laskar Schwartz, '41, co- chairman of publicity, announced today. Life.\ Prpceeding this addri\Ss Dr, Fox will deliver a short speech. The Rev. Clarke V. Poling, pas• tor of the First Reformed Church of Schenectady, will read the scrip- ture during the opening exercises. The academic founder of Union, Dirck Romeyn, was pastor of the First Reformed Church from 1784 to 1804. The Rev. Herbert R. Houghton, college chaplain, will de- liver the invocation and benedic- tion. A highlight of the exercises which begin at 10 a. m. will be the conferring of an honorary degree of Doctor of Letters upon Dr. Smith by President Fox. Dr·. John L. March, senior professor of the faculty, will invest the philosopher with the hood of the doctorate. P::-oct>ssion Stately The ceremonies will open with the historic academic procession of the faculty garbed in their somber caps and gowns with multi-colored hood linings and tassels offering a brilliant and striking spectacle. Dr. Elmer A. Tid marsh will pl:ly Meyerbeer's \Coronation Mar·ch\ as the processional anthem. The procession will be under di- rection of Grand Marshal Harold A. Larrabee and Marshal Warren C. Taylor. President Fox. Judge Hinman, and Dr, Smith will take the places of honor in the chancel. During the program, the Glee Club will sing \Grant Them to Do With Zeal\ ·by Bach and \Jerusa- lem\ by Parry, The audience will .;;ing the \Dutchmen's Song\ at the conclusion of Dr. Fox's address and the \Ode to Olde Union\ after pres- entation of the honorary degree. As the recessional, Dr. Tidmarsh will play \Tocata\ by Bollman. Members of the faculty wi11 oc- cupy a reserved section of seats at the front of the chapel. As the spealrers reach the cross- ing to the ·chancel. they will tread on the inlaid tablet of silver gray Tennessee marble dedicated to the memory of t-he Rev. Dirck Romeyn one of the co-founders of the col- lege. This tablet was unveiled .by an undergraduate descendent of Dirclt Romeyn at the second Foun- der's day exercises in 1938. Schuylt>r Co-Foundt>r One of the two donors of the tab- let. LeWis B. Sebi·ing, Jr., night city editor of the \New Yoli' Herald- Tribune,\ spoke on the program with Dr. W. H. S. Demarest, presi- dent emeritus of Rutgers Univer- sity. In Hale House hangs a portrait of General Philip Schuyler, one of the leaders in the movement to found a college in Schenectady, which was presented. to the college at the first Founder's Day celebra- tion by Dr. Robert Livingstone Schuyler, a descendent of the Gen- eral, and principal speaker at the exercises. Speaker in 1939 was Dr. Samuel Eliot Morison of Harvard. Last year. President William H. Cowley of Hamilton College was the prin- cipal speaker. ing a·bout the social scene. a divided America, has grown a Wmds have meaning in terms of politics, I \should find myself at new appreciation of the inner life action as well as in terms of re- last altogether nothing but words.\ of man, where integrity can be flection and celebration. I needed So I pursued the meaning of my safeguarded complete if it does not desp·erately to understand this emo- own life and work into the arena bid too heavily for outer power; tive side of what I was writing. of conflict and oratory, of oratory and a new appreciation of the outer Politics offered to one of my tern- and conflict. life of man, where all is 1elative perament the best access to this There followed books memorial to and where compromise is the bless- \life of action.\ Like Plato, I came this new dimension of intexest. \The ed strategy of our gracious accom- to feel that if I did not go into Promise of American Politics\ came modation. The Skidmore chorus undPr the direction of Elmer M. Hintz di- rector of the division of musir, is making a concert tour March 19-20 Tickets for the Sophomore Dance wi!l be on sale at the end of this week at a cost of $1.10 a couple, it was announced by Kenneth Sharpe, '43, today. Following the Founder's Day ex- ercises, Dr. Smith will lunch with President Fox and John P. Lewis, former Union exchange student to St. Andrew's University, Scotland, During the luncheon hour, they will broadcast greetings and a portion of their Founder's Day addresses to Europe over the General Electric shmt wave stations which will be beamed on •Scotland. and will donate about 50 pe•· eP.nt There will be a meeting of the of the proceeds to war relief in co- Newman Club, this evening at 7:30 operation with their unit of the o'clock, in Silliman Hall. All mem- Student Committee for Democracy\ her~ are urged to attend. Re- organized at Union in October. freshments will be served. At 2 p. m .. Professor Smith, for- mer Congressman-at-large from Illinois, will lead an informal dis- cussion of \Whom does the Repre- <Continued on Page 4)

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1941 ~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~--------------~--~-~~~_.~,-----~-~----~------~-~-----~----.--;~~-------------------~----------------~---------------~~------~-----------~c=;~------~--~------~~~--~~~~--~~~~~~~--~~~--~~~~~~~========~ Qloncur FuL 'lllll IS77 \ 1 C:ausa Pas a Parol<' l ssai .. ll~mu€f-Of th~- ~\:;~U--z-i-;teU -L·Otkgwit= l're:-;~ ~tilt I dbttihutur tlf til-~ c,,,, lt. g1ate 1 >Jge~~. T11~\\0tTkfal itt:\\;~·•:t.)J-~Ioi tht.' ::.tllliL·Hl~ 111 L'ltltHt L'ui!t:'g't· hJl;fi.:.._JI;._:-tl Tue~· da,\ a11d l•'nday:; tltruu~huut tht· c<.d!t·~t· ~ c,11 Eliiturlal - uUUtiih:-- BiHinnlli fia!C- c·wwl t:'\:dr ... gt_. --l·~B~-~Jii:,. 1\·h·t;J~,It;;, :klldlt:t:tad,;, 4·Ul~~ Public..~ittl(J.ilotYii·C; •rt;~ l:i-.u:~.:tk -l'll;'-:,~, J~i ::f•.~tl_' ~t. ::-i\·li~·Ill-d:;-tt!~--:'\ Y. Telepl!oJI~ 4-llH E-!Jtl;rt'~r at-u~~;;-L~ilt.·tJI.:ct7td.} r·~~::L--\.)ft'i;~.-- ~~-~ ::k~~.~l- eta-~;- Jdall -~{ath-r sUbs~.-riptiou -~~~-~-;:;; i~\l\-~ t'ellt~ :l ~-~~~·r:$Tuu :l-;-;::U -; -~Ti\-t·l t·ti a.1:y \,-hU.t~ in tile Lntll'd Slatt·::-.. St>nior BOlll'd Armand Y. Ft>ig-Pnbaum .. - _ .. _ - .... ___ . _ ........ __ Edit u1-in-Chief La:-;1\.nr :-icll\vartz ..... · .. · ..... ~ ... 0 •• o ••• o ~.;.:. 0 •• Bu:5inr:~H ~IanagPt· '\'·'Jll·a .\.: u H1 u~· 1- .... )1 Solomon -B!t-'C'hman ............................. Managing Editot· ::. ;\'ll•ldlt :-'••,·Linll, Snll h l'11lh·gv ·li-~I!Jtiti Samut>l PortnuJ. . . .................. As;;ocia tt• Editor ,Jonathan !'.Parson. :--;111.111;1 l'lll 1'1;11 t 1-t;,.:'l ,J. Donald Hai~·h ................. - ........... Citculation ManagCI' Hob!'t't Bi:<l:op Hobt·lt l'''i ]l,ILt Tlut:.t lh•ll!>ol' !-1~·11 ,Junior Bmll'd Ha1 vey Fi:<hbont' Haynt'l Th<Hllas O'Cunno1· (il'an~Pr Tripp Sophom<>l't' Board Thoma~ Cullen, vVilliam Halt, Albc>i't Ktonick, Ed wan! Johnson. At th ur Pa ~l.lll t', Seymour Thicltman Ju,tin Pt•t l~tc•in lo.1Pl \'iliP l~SU<' Editn1· ... Albert Kr.miC' k Bu;,in~ss Staff Jost•ph .JayPox Stanl!'y G!ePnstein ;'<.le::-:;,•nger David RosPnblum REPRESENTEe FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING E3Y National Advertising Service, Inc. Co/lege Publishers RePresentative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK. N.Y. CIIICAGO • BOSTON • 1.05 ANGELES • SAH FRANCISCO . ......... ____ ...... RolJPrt Bishop Assistants Edward Johnson - __ - ~--~-- ---- ~--·--..,::;c:- TUPsciay, FPbruary 25, 1941 BIRTHDAY GREETINGS Art and Drama Gets Ilalf Price j: On Play Ti·ckets By WILLIAM IHASSEE About thE' ticket deal, the vari- ous shows which will come to Schenectady have diffe~·ent price ; rangc>s, me managed by different ! offices, will haw difft'tent drawing , powe1s, For trat reason, l\11-. I GruvC's, the manage1· of the Erie, 'has not b<>en able to mal{<' any 1 1 special booking, or :;ubscliption ticket an-angc>ments. The vu1 ious , managers of th<> shows on toUI : ha vc> been particulltrly ur.coopera- 1 tive, so no agreement could bP reached. I M1·. Graves offered the only solu- tion, w:hich depentis on the advance I sale of a palticular show. If the advance sale is not too gt eat, he can offer sea•ts in the different sec- 1 tions of the house a.t half price to 'I colle~e students: that is, a $2.20 seat will cost $1.10, a $1.65 seat will cost 88c, a $1.10 seat will cost 55c. Thi,; possible arrang-ement seems to be even mm·e desirable than the othe1·, in that students may pick th<? shows they wish to see. may sit in any pat t of the theatre they prefer. If a show is sold out, fc>wer seats will be available, but the number of seats to be sold will be an- nounced in this column the issue prior to the performance. Ticl,ets I will be purchasPd at ti-e pPI·form- 1 ancc>, from a special ticket-takl'r, probably your columnist. Faculty and staff are also included in the 1 arrangemc>nt. Isn't that nice? 1 suppose everybody is very happy a bout it all. * Mr. Faille, the at·ti;;t from the west, ends his exhibit here today. There were no new great idea,; presented, thc> colors we1·e not worth singling out for th<> quality, and Wt't P mel ply unusual. His t 1 ick of having light come out of the painting is as old as the Flemi;;h school. ---- o- [_==S=C E=· N=E==='Jll Want to be president or a smatl tax-t>xempt college? Well. then, answer this add taker. fl'Onl the business oppm·tunities sec- tion of thc> Sunday \New York Times.\ Columnist Elaborates On Downfall Of Crosby, for 'The Corn Is Green' E~ STA~LEY GRE.E;-.; wakps up tu the fact that there at·e Last wE>ek, you will 1emember. if othl'l' men in thE' org-anization ·be- you n•a<l that lllll<'ll of til£' C'Dl!lmn, si<l<>s hi-nuwlf, and that men Jik£> that Wt' cal!ed the Bob C't o~by Cl'<'W J<>ss St:H'Y· Ray naudue. EddiP Mil- a second rate oq.;anizati~n. or le1, et a!. must be hPa.!d word,; of that inlt>Ht. \Ve b!'U!'ve R<>cords that that :-;tatenwnt nePds some ex- Can't \\'!' h~> Fl'it>nd~'? and l\lil- .. ~.ANTED-NE\\' l'RES!D-I<;N'f J-mnsion, as the 1 -cason for the c!P- umhu by .John Kitby rnd his Or- OR HEAD for small tax-exempt cline is not too clt>HI' to us, fotJ:lt'r- cht•stra. Now un the Columbia labP!, college. New head must bt in!< in ly among the band's staunehP:;t this six man m·chE>stl a cuts two f-resh capital 01 be competent to, bUppul te 1 ,;, pi£>:Jsant but far f1 om outstanding an an~\ temporary Joan for enr-oli- Sine!' its fonnation wny bael<, thL sitll'<1. ment 01 endowment campaign. OtC'hl';;tia has fp:JtU-JNl and ]JeJfect 'Ti' th<• I.ight•; of London Hhin<' Y 21'136 TimE's Annex.\ t>d .1 stylp of playing luwwn a 5 Again and Tht> Last Tim~> I Sa'v Any take1s': \tlixielancl\ whic-h stl·e\ses thP two l'al'i>o; by Tony Mat-tin. Right up to * beat jazz foi!IL The• band's JH'!Sllll- dalt> is l\11', !1!:11 tin with these twu Wnmt>n, tliP country 'round, knon \l•:lt-anoi' Blue\ as an t>SpPrially captiYating shadP worn by Mrs. RoosP\'Plt. SchPnectadians will soon l>now \Marion Yt>llow,\ for t.h<> Mountehanlis art> painting flats .fol' ''Tht> lnspt'ctor GcnPral\ with :1 color i'nspirf'd b~· tilt' brilliant ~-~·!· low of Mrs. Fox's hloust>, wo1·n t•> dhmPr in Hale House last 'veeli. IH'l has always bPP!l tops. Four of timely topiPal tid-bits. Tony's thnoh- the r:'rusbv lllt'll Wl'll' l'lw:-;en b\' bing t'lnsils Hn• well aired. Paul Whi.t<'num fm· hb All-Sta· 1 High on l', Windy Hill and I ,Un- oJchestJa, and P\'Pil la~t nwnth tlwv <lPI'stand by Jimmy DnrHey and his pl3CPd fi\'L' -llll'tl on the •·Down Bt•,it Orch<·stra. Now the highest paid Magazint>\ All·Am<'rican Jim•-up. Decc,1 J<>cmding mtist, Jimmy's two To featu 1 e thE' individual Holoists latest a!«> tnrr justifi.·ation for the PVen nlnl'P, tht.• \Dob-Cats a SP\·en ! aist 1 • His att·angPnu~nts ate- .always pic•cc \jam\ band wa~ folmed com- top>', and lH' cun always be counted post•:! oi outstandin>( mc>mbt>IS ol upon to givE> a lift to evc>n the !lit- thE' full outfit. Tlw gang was riding pst tunE> hP plays. * hi~h vdth ctitical. populal', and out In hrit>f: Two atrocit-ies are Terty A lady friend of oms makes he 1 fan>L Then it happened. Shun.~:\ IeP<ll'dings of ·:L;t's Do It\ living by t eading character in hand-- A few months ago. t ht> band wc>nt i ' 111 '-', ~h~r ~a,;JPY }-~ssie . ; · ,; Joan writing. We thought her amazing]~-~ ~o Hollywood, and sincP tht>n, it ha~ 1 ~: 1 ';a~ tis ':Ill~~ .L!mpl~ght anrl accurate when she picked our chal· :o!Pgone it~ original ~tyle of pl:ty-1 8 ~-•H. ';: ~'Xm:t ~v.eetnes:o .. got lnt_~; actedstics from a scrawl we hand-~mg and of featur-ing tlw fir.c> artbts ll\1) E~ ;_ · WP< 11 > · ·_-_The,-' enesl ed her, but then she knew us. As a in the> company. In its fayor now. ~~<>s~< ~ fllll?l AI ttl' Sh~w, to test. we gave het· a letter WI itt en are badly ananged \pop\ tunes, v\ ood~ Hetman, to Fknn) Good- by Fred ·wyatt, Wh(; is completelv and the fmtm ed singing of th<>, mm:, t~ P~l~ChlJ,. th~ bespecbcled unknown to het. leader and a ve>cal qmu tet called 1 Latm \\ ho dbappomh. F1·ed, as revealed by his hand- th\\ \Bob-O-Links\. NausPating,l 0 WI iting is: \quite praetical, good in what? .'.:0\ UE :'oi\OTH E sta.tistical fields, has a good sensr> V.'e m·e even doubtful that, if i~ A mction ;,Jc-tu1 '-' adaptation of of humor, very quiclt, has constt·uc- continues in its ptesent vein, the th<' o;:t>la \l.cuist·\ \\'ill bP playing tive sense. He is optimistic. neve 1 band can maintain its standing dS a at t:JP r..ivo'i Thea-t1 <' Sunduy deprPssed, does not want to stRl-,- second 1 at I' outfit. VVhy, just re- th1 \ugh '!'ut.~day, ~.l:trl'h U-11. The nate, extravagant, gullible occasio!:- eently, :\1uggsy Spanier, its ace plc>cer.t tion is bring srons .. r·pd b . .- ally, has a severe sense of personal trumpet playet. left the mchestra thP l ollc>ge Women·, Llub fo1 the discipline both in himself and oth· and is now fannin>.; his own band. 1 bem•:it or th• Club's Frllow,hip ers. He is a quick thinker and vet v \Ve since1·ely hope that M1·. C. Fund selt' confident,\ · ------------ Roget· Marshall was orating about democracy at a Philomatht•:lrl- mcetinF the- other evening when he: paused fo1· breath. Quipped Han·ey · Fi:;hbone in the interim. \comma:·· * A politichut's liliP ~ housPwift•'\ MAZDA LAMPS ALL SIZES and COLORS TomOJTow, l'nion official!~· l>ecomes one hundred forty- six yeal's old. Birthday greetings fl'Om the colleg-e commun- ity me due in :\lemol'ial Chapel at 10 :OO a. m. II work is nevPr done. Just about ali FIFTY YEARS AGO tlw members of the Trinity bask<>t- bal! team, which play!'d hert> Satur- I.!;;===============.!J day night, hail from Hartford. Rt>- sult: Bob Rillian, son of a notPd FI'Om tht> Fill's -of till' Concordiensis Httt•tford politician and former Staples, Paste, Li:;uid and Dance Floor Wax T elechron and Big Ben Clocks Feb. 28, 1891 head of tht> campus DE>mocra,Uc. \The College Glee Club now sing club, had to pro~·idt' datt's fm· f'Yt'r~·: Our hat is off to President \Yilliam I I. Cowley fol' the reg-ularly every moming in chapel. Trinity basl>t'tballt'I' aftPr thP gamP.I,· thus making- a vc>1·y pleasant addi- * foi'thl'ig·ht way in which he stated his position as he 1·ejected tion to tr.e chapel Pxetci;;es. Willard Malkan, !mown for fom the bid to the pre:,;idency of the l'niversity of ~linnesutn. He \On Friday Pv<'ning, FPbruary y!'ars as \Bird Dog\ is now beinh . 20, the fir:;t annual banquC't of the - d d b h · smct. ''I must remain ... and carl',\. thromrh to com]Jletion the undero-raduates of '\n 10 · n ''\as h~ld. •ntro uce Y t e Slg- Phi's at Skid· . - ,., '--' \ - ' mot·e, Smith and VaHsa1· as \M1·.' in\'o]\·ed projects \\'llil'h I have begun •.. \ Tht: affait. though tlw ini~wl \ 11 \· Dog.' Our informant say,; that tho· OUR HAT IS OFF Clark Witbeck Co& 416-419 STATE ST. PHONE 4-4161 I) . 1 • ·], .•. • •f' .. I .. . . I . . - . wa\ a s~ccP---.~. Betw<'Pn fifty and namP has 1 eally sp-1 ead and citP~ ,l I. \. 0\\ l,\ :-- ll u,-,,l \\ ,ts \\ P COlllP ne\\;; to tlll' 1-Jil ;;tU· >'l'\'Pnty-flVP ~tudc>nts Wl'nt 0\'f'l to - b 1' b . ' Alb · . · 1 Ilt>~Iu \1\aitt•J HS aw tng •· t•t•ts f,, '!:::==========-=====================~~ dl'nts and to the faculty ot' Hamilton. llad he v:one. it would ' ~ny <>ally. Ill the P\'enin~ and i ;).!!. Dog\ in a Smatoga spa. . - ha\'e meant a po:,;iti'o!l ,·ts ll..,,'l(l 11f 11n\ f th · I • ·t • ..1 t <lttcndPd th<' Bia-s :\!onkPy · thPn A,. nPws M1. Doh an(l N01m - '- , 0 E' IIC lt<' dllu 0]) planng at Jacob' tht•,·ttl<' ·tncll D- d- h b t th · ] • 1 ~. • ( It> llC' ea P \VInnPr~ ot t ll' A good plan ... pause and ranking ,..;tate universities in the countn·. A position of na- vai!Pd th£> applaus<> with cliPs of, :'lkidmore round-robin bri<l''\ toUI· · \ · · ' . . C-N-1-0-::--J. Hil{ah~ Kil,ah' Hil<ah'. , t ~ tHllla llllporta.m·e, It \rould ha\'e brou;.rht hnn to tlw tore as Aft•·' wa1 d all 1 <'pa 1 i<'<l to rh· , namt n · an educational administmtor, as a theorist .in educational Windsor whett' an <>xcellPnt nwnu In<'idt\ntial • ..1 I · · · was discu~>'<>d. Th• following was lntP!ligPm'P: practices anu pe1· mps as a politician of note. th£' MPnu: · Yet llr. Cowley chose to turn down the offl'I' so that he BluP Point Oy;;tPz.~. Half RhPll · l · 1 Mock Tmtlt' Soup Illig 11 l'Pllll\lll anc C<UTY throug-h to cmnpletion tlw im·ol\'Pd Boiled Tutbot. An,•ho\'<'V RaucP. pro.iects which he had beg-un. Projects that will nwan the It'· ParisiennP PotatnPs · · · · I Small Chiclwn Pattip~ ol'g'alllzatiOn o! I amilton's l'UITiculum. admission regulations. Roast BPPf and Roast TmkPy finance. plant and student-faculty relationship. C1an;.wrrv Sauc\ :.\Iuch of l>l'. Cowle,v's tele!l.Tam and his feeling· on the who]u StewPd TomatnPs. SucPnl,,-1 1 and ~ •. '- Pal isiPnn£> Potatop,; Bob Fl'aughton, the 1 ed-hendPd junior transfe1· from Gt c>Pn Moun- tain. has a blonde ft eshman ~isle! at Russell Sage, while \NPal\ Dan-' tla: ,•au thr blonae fl·eshmaP ba>·- ketball pl3y<'l. has a red-IJPad,•\ sistP:. And spPakinh of haL. EvPr . ticed that GPorge Hupl:Wil putl'hes of whilP whislt!'l>'. no ha.-; ma.tte1· of change is applicable to students on this campus. A Roast Plo\-e!_ I.a1d•·d. Ct'l<'IY faculty member \H' know was decrying the tl'end among- stu- Salad young Iadie,; who tonk p1uu il·cm F'zuit Pudding. \VinP S::w ,. pal ts in Pinafn1\ 1 PC'I'i\'<•t! a la1·;.: · dents to ]pt thing-s slide. to f:til to complete tasks IYhich have :\!etlopolitan C'r«>am Cak<> bunch of ro~l's tiPd with a punPt ht'Pil a,..;SlJ.!:IlPcJ tlwm OJ' WhiCh tlw~· tht>l11St']W'S ha\'t' stal'tPd.: \On \',Jpptin .. ·~ <hy ·•r·l• nf th ribbon.\ Loss t>f Pnthusiasm, ttw ctPsire to try \this and that\ as well' as the inability of nHUl.\\ ;;tudl'nb to focus thetnseln's nn an\ task long enough to accomplish something of notP IH'.I'l' cite;! :ts n•a:-:on:-; for thP student attitude. 1 \\'e think nr. C'm\·]p~··s reason of refusal is \\'Ol'thy of I attention. S. B. OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES In compPtition fm· a trophy and another cup, two-man d£'·bating tPams I Pp!·es_··nl.lug ('\l'l y AmhPJ 't f.atPI nity wia lllC'E't this lo.'londay as the annual 111ttr,mural dl'bating toU!nament begins with conte>·ts ;:n the topiC', \Rp:;clvPd tt at t ushing defPrrc>d to sophomm-p yrar i~ unde- ~ilab!P at AmhNst.\ \Thn Columbia Daily ~pectato1·\ say,; thrtt Diosa Co:otrllo, singing and dan~ing \'~'H ot \C1azy With the Heat,\ current B1 oadway ,ma;;h-hit i mu,;Ical wtll be among thP gut-:;ts at thP MorningsidP Junior Prom Mi~\ Costt•llo b the posse~><JI- of \the mod uninhibited bodv en. l hP : Ame1 ican sta;Je\ thP \Sprctato1\ claims. · . V\'illiam C. Bi1 dsall, '42, Edga1· Fi,h£'1' '·12. and Robe! t Martin. '42, are I ptC'tUr!'d w1th thPII' datf's nt U r St. Rns<> Junior Ptnm in a !<'Cent issul', of \Tht> Rosa\'erian.\ I At vVilli~m> Colh·gt•, tl'\ Union Now muv:mPnt has g-ained cor..sidet- ablf' prommenc;. The plan is sponsot!'d by Kla.rt'nc<> StPit and Vemon 1 A. Na>:h, traveling l<'ples£'ntative of thP movement. Edwald Cla1k pre-, \Pntrd the plan a.t Cnion srveml weeks ngo. j , I A confPrl'nCP on mal'! iagP p1 oblems will begin at V.'p,;leyan Colleg£> ThurHhy. Fnion will send fiv<> I<'Pt<'Hf'ntatives to the inte1·collc>giatr: affair. A cunft•tPnce of lf'PI<'>cntativ£>:; of a.ll tac<>s living in AnH'Iica has just bef'n conc•luded a.t Rochegter Univf'rsit~·. For 25 of these 146 years it has been our pleasure • • To Watch Union Grow • To Serve Union Men • To Advertise in the Concordien!.iis MEN'S SHOP e 514 STATE ST. AT LAFAYETTE MANHATIAN SHIRTS ~1i~ ·?K~ A little minute is long enough for a big rest when you drink an ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola. It brings :1 feeling of complete refreshment ..• completely satis- fying. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola. YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by S( HENECTADY COCA-COLA HOTTLINCJ COMPt\NY. Int. HI w pl 01 ti i-r 01 w e1 eo C< \] al \] .:

.l are be- likE> l\lil- 1\lil- Or- two <:ling hin<> Sa·w to twt·J Un- hif' paid ·the It it- It\ anri Into to n uf nd<1y Thl' db_; the TV nl. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1941 Page Theee $ ,J 1\. (;I{ P tt 'r $ 1 late Trinity Rally Spoils ' ' $ $I B) ,J.H'l\ I' E .. \ Hi'iO:'I \You didn't expect it all to do any good, did you?\ a :;enior a:;l1ed us yesterday afternoon after com- plimenting \Jackpot\ for his stand on the basketball attendance ques- tion in Friday's column. Then our informant explained that every- one goe:; away from the campus week-ends. He wa:; at a loss, how- ever, to explain the lack of inter- est in mid-week games. * * Frankly, \Jad{pot\ had look- ed for ·gi·e-ater spirit and at- tendance at Hattn·day night's Trinity game for four reasons. First, Union had ups!'t Wil- liams three nig·hts pr!'viously. Then because of the ''brolt('n down t'ootball playpr's • stirring chapel tallc Thirdly, as a re- sult of a slight prodding from \ThP Concordiensis.\ And last- ly, ht'cause it was the last game. None of thPse workPd. Ft>Wt>r than 250 students attt>nded the Trinity game. * * * Visiting Quintet Grabs lead at End To Nip Improved Dutchmen, 48-46 Loss Leaves Union with Season's Record Showing Two Victories rn Eleven Games· ' I Brrght Prospects for 1941-42 Campaign ·-- Brooklyn's \Wait 'til next year\ Harvey Features As Cub Cagers Sock State Frosh Ciampa's Charges Close Season With Easy 40-21 Triumph ~xpression was heard fiOm many ~ m Saturday night's baskPtball ;J crowd as they left the game after Final Intramural seeing Union nipped at the end Bou·li1•1g *Sta* nl_lings after tuming in its best per form- ance of the campaign. Trinity, '-===== 1 Albany State's fr·osh courtmcn didn't offer the Garnet cubs much opposition and the Ciampa-coached live cloo;ed its 'eason with a 40-21 \'ictory in SatUI day night's pre- liminai-y. taking the lead three minutes from , the end, won 48-46 b t t h f . 1 Eastern LeaguP ' ' u e Out Team- V\' soJ?homot es ~nd a junior· in Union I Delta Upsilon ........ __ . _ 15 umfoi ms Will proba·bly all be I AI h Ph· D ] 1 5 around next year and this calls tor I p: ~· t Deli a · · · · · · · · · · a I etm·n to big things in Garnet Ch ~ ~~.rna e a · · · · · · · · · · 12 basketball. . 1 ~I. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... 10 Until midwa' . th f' t I If h Psi ·Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 · · . . ; In e II'S la- t e Alpha D It· Ph' VIStttng Trmity f.ive put up a good Ka :.I ~ I · · · · · · · · · · .J scrap. Then Ronnie Macombt>r be- 1 ppa P a · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 gan splitting the center of the cout t I Anwrican League with his nice breaks and caging I Team-. \\' follow-ups with regularity. So De~ta Phi ................ 11 Union held a 28-23 lead at t.he in- Pht Gamma Delta . . . . . . . 9 termission. Six or seven minutes Neutral:; · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . . . 8 after the second half stai·ted the Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . 7 Dutchmen spm ted a 36-25 ad van- x;appa N~ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 5 tage. It looked lilie a brE'eze from Sigma Phi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 5 there. National League Wart en Harvey sparked the L Union attack with 14 points. He 3 1 made nine in the fir·st quarter as 3 1 the Little Dutchmen took a 15-4 6 1 lead .. Johnny C!owe racked up 11 8l for hrmself, most of them on very 11 , fast breaks under the hoop instead H · of on his usual long-shot specials. 18 Harvey did his scoring on pivot tosses which drew the proverbial L \Ohs\ and \Ahs\ from the crowd. 4 State had trouble stopping him as 6 he shot with either hand, 7 At the hal.fway mark they were on 8 top by 27·11. A less productive 10 thiJ·d quartez saw the Union year- 10 lings move on to a 34-15 advantage. The final session was about even. Basketball Finale ---~---- Garnet Swordsmen 1 Delta Chi, Phi Gams Bow to Siena 8~5 Playoff Basketball Finals I J Paet'd by Bub Hallt>llb<'<']t', 12 Supremr in both the foil and ppeP 1 pomt~. DPlta. Chi':; Plon~att>d ba:;- events, the Siena Collegp fpncet·~ kt·t b:!llt•t- l'ltiwna tt·d Kappa Nu beat Union, 8-5, het·e Saturcav from tlw ,\nrl'Ii<-an llltr·amui·al afternoon as athletiC' t·Platiun,.; WPr~· LPa~u\ pla~orr.- Ja ... t night with a inaugutated with the youthful Lou- :!·1·21 vi<'toty. KapJHL :-;\u whidt don ville institution. t 1 ai:<'d moot .,f !Itt• wuv. had Norm Dolan of Siena was nut- di·oJ'I\'d a :!ti-~IJ d<·ehdun ·to Phi standing, winning fom· of his <;amma lJPlta Sa.t ut dHy. team's eight victorie.s. Bob Herman Tunigllt llt•lta f'hi will Uil'klf' the Jed Union with three triumphs. 11 l'lu < iam:< te> dt·kt m•int· tht· AI!Iel'i- was thE' Dutch swordsmpn's spcond t'llll L<'agll<' c·IH•mp<•m~hip. Lntt>t- Joss as opposed to onP w.in. ThPy h·aglH' p!ayutb ,-tal t t.mwn ow have bea:ten R. P. I. and c!mppPd n.i;dH w tt lt tlw l11:>t'l in_ lht· Phi matches to Willia·ms and SiPna. <,:.IIII-l>l·lta lht. match •. Jwu·Pd. With Summary: : tht• r~nhPatell Kappa Stgma !tVl' of Foil Herman ll]) d f, t l D _ 1 thl' ;\;att11nal Lt•agU<• Ulld thl' nctor · · e r .l el u I I ·in I' t 1'h t J> d lin <Sl, 5-2; Bauman, <Sl, dPfeatPdi\ \'J\ ;. '''a \\ 1 • ·~.''\\ 11 - Jankowski, <lJ), 5-3; Dolan <Sl. dP~;placl' ;\;atronal.loop !'lub. \\wnet·~< feated Burton 'L'l 5-1· Herman , of th<'>t' ,pnu-ftn:u gamt•:< wlll face 1Ul, defeated Bauman.' IS!. 5 _ 2 ;. <'~dt ot.bPt fot tht· r·lllJPgl' title Dolan, < S.J, defeated Captain Ktm-' !<I tday nigJ~t. . . mey, <Ul, 5-4; Colaneri, <Sl, de- Albany Stat•· wrll ,\\nd Its In- feated DeLorenzo, I Cl, 5·3: Ht>r- tramui al dJalll{>l!Jll, C o:l\-g\. Hou,.;p man. < Ul, defeated Dolan. 1 Sl. 5 _ 1 : ht·l,P fot, a ~.:amt• wtth Cmon; tttlP· Kimmey, <lJ>, defPated Colan£>Ii' ho dt•I ;,;atutd:ty a~tt•Jnoon. T•:t· <t'C- •S>. 5-4; Bauman, <S>. c!efPated ond-plact• LJutc·h !tv<· Will pia) the Goldberg, I Ul, 5-3. Total, Siena 5. a,; ):'·t Ul.l.llamt•d Sta.:\ t unnPr-up at Union 4. .r·\_1 b_,·_ll...;t~=-·-;:-;_:_H_u_r_d_a.:.y_. --------, lnltTt'Strd 111 Scltrtzertady lnturstl',i iu V.\'ION Epee--Dolan, <Sl, defeated Kim- mey, <'L'>, 3-2; Moore, <lJl. defeatPd Bauman, IS), 3-0; Dolan, <Sl. dP· feated Moore, <Ul, 3-1; Colanet·i • •s>. cefeated Kimmey. •t.:>. 3-2·' MAURICE B. GRAUBART Two weeks ago new> of the ·ecorct-smashing feat~ of the Union swimming team was :;pr·ead all over the east. \Union ~wimmers had broken Johnny Weissmuller's world's record,\ the storie,; read in all the news·paper;:. \Chuck'' Pas£e, ace with Burt Brittin of Joe Wheatley's tank squad for the 1938, '39 and '40 sea:;on~. heard the tidings over at Pitt:;field. Big 'Chuck\ huotled r·ight over to Schenectady, only to discover that Wily Wheatley had had his boy:; using r·ubber flipper:; to assault the 1 ecord book. Consecutive set shots by Dick 1 Team- \\' Tullar, Captain Moe Boistein and Beta Theca Pi ............. 12 L Summary: 3 Union Fl'Osh- G p Total, Siena 3, Union 1. Tilt' .Jar Strfl'l Jev:e/n· * * * Passe, who captainPd the 1!13!! aquatic forces lwre, t>stab- lishecl, or had a hand in sPtting four of the nin!' marks which grace the pool's big record board today. HP lGwPrt>d the 220-yard fr•eestylt> recOl'd three times and still holds it and ht> cracked the 100-yard freestylt> rt>cord twice. This he still holds. In addition, hl• was a mt>mher of the 400-yard rPlay team which pared thP Union recor·d fow· times in 1938 Mld which holds that rN•ord now. The· 200-;rard rpla;r rpcord also fell before a tPam of which l'as'f\ wa~ a nwmhPr. * Scoop of the month \The Con- cordiensis\ printed thE' llf>W<' of \Duke\ NelBon·~ being r·{'>·>igned at R.P.I. three days befote the \Ren>>elaer PolytE\>chnic\ die. Ted Knurek hauled Trinity back to South college . . . . . . 12 37-33 with seven minutes of the Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 ga,me remaining. Jitters tool\ hold Theta Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . 5 of lJnion. Passes found blue and Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 gold rathet· than garnet-shirted tar- Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . 2 3 Smolka, rf ............. 0 6 De Weese, rf .......... 0 10 Meisel, If . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 10 Kayne, If , . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 1 3 Harvey, c .............. 6 gets. Balls hit the rim and rolled • • * off. In other wm ds, mid-season Playoffs will begin Satut day was back again. tl among 1e first and second place Trinity Takes Lead teams of all three leagues. The oix . , fives will roll at Reuters and the Jack Crockett, f~·agtle> star of the two with the lowest pin totals will Hartfm·? team, tted the scot·e at! be eliminated. Several days later, 42-~11 wtth a shot .from the bucket I• the date has not been set as yet>, three and a. half mm~tes before the I the remaining four teams will roll end. Captam Borste>~n. made good again and two more will drop out on a. foul. and. !<he VIsrtot·s led for Then the two surviv 0 rs will tangle the fu st ttme smce the early stages in the finab, which will also be de- of the fir:;t 20-minut.e per·iod Paul cided on the basis of total pinnage. Santee, who turned t11 a fast game for Union, put the Dutch on top for the last time with a layup. but Ray Lokot, c · ·- · · · · · · ·- 1 1 1 Thomsen followed with one of the Borstein, rg ........... 4 1 9 follow-ups w.hich made him Tl'in- Tt:llar, lg .............. 3 3 9 ity's high-scorer of the night. Thompson, lg .......... 6 3 15 Crocl\ett one-hanc!ed one t·hrough Totals ................ 19 10 48 the nets and followed with a foul Union- G F P to make it 48-44 with 80 seconds to Carnwright, rf ......... 2 1 5 play Just as the big hands of the Wysocki, rf ........... 1 1 3 i clock passed the 19-minute mark , Macomber, If .... , . . . . . 5 3 13 , \WhiteJ·\ Carnwright banked one I Rathi:v, c · · · ·. ·. 2 4 8 1 in ftom the corner for the game's · Turchick, rg ..... , . . 5 0 10 last \core. Santee, lg . . . . . . <> 0 4 Two shots by Car nwr i~ht in tho Jakubowski. lg .. 1 3 1Jeeting >«•cones boun~ed· off tJ-£> Totals .. .. .. .. . .. .18 10 46 rim and Dead-eye Turchick mis~ec Scot·e at half time Cnion 28 his third loJCg shot of the night ·b) Trinity 23. Fouls committed- -Trin- a nanow margin as Uni\n fou)!ht ity 15, Union 11. R£>feree- Dowling. Clowe, rg ............. 4 Gresham, rg . . . . . . . . . . 0 Allen, lg ............... 0 Dandareau, lg ......... 1 Totals ............... 16 State Frosh- G Marsland, rf ........... 0 McCabe, rf . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Kylie, If ............... 0 Forrest, If . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Combs, c .............. 5 Evans, rg ............. 3 Rubah, rg ............. 1 Wise, lg ., ............. 0 Totals ............... 9 Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 0 1 7 4 14 11 0 0 3 40 p 0 0 0 1 11 7 2 0 21 de~pet·ate:y to ti£>. summan Cmpire -Hin£>hcliffe. ; Trinity- G . F P ·~===========================~~;; I ; 0':\!Ialley, r·f . . . . . . . . . . . 3 0 6 Scully. rf . . . . o o o ; Knurek, If ............ 1 1 3 I Conway, If . . . . ........ 0 0 0 ; Crockett, c ............ 2 1 5 I CONGRATULATIONS TO UNION COLLEGE I I ----- ·0 FOGL-SHOOTiNG LEADERS IncludPs totals of 15 higlwst mPn ' competing for l'adt g:t•oup. i Team- Total Dt>lta Upsilon , ........ , . . . . I8:l 1 Beta Theta. Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IH:i' Phi Delta ThPta .. .. .. . .. .. . 17.! Rappa Sigma ............ _ . . I i:l , Phi Gamma Dl'lta . . . . . . . . . . . 16:-l I 66 JAY STREET IT' atr!J a11d Jev:elry Repairing a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS CONGRATULATIONS UNION! REMEMBER ALUMNI-For the Trip Home Fill Up With - tsso SIGN at - W.H~RICE Cor. UNION and JAY ~--.r· -~-.\\'·\\- --,.----~----- . ....-- -- I i Bill Hartt and (;apt:lin Dud Holmes recently got a nice sli-.{'> of publicit;\' in thP Spt•ingflp:d papers for their ltoelie:\· con- qut>sts. ( Pictm·.,, and au:) 'i'hi~ is only a san1plP of the work fhp Nt>ws BurPau has hf\Pn do· !ng of !at~ in publicizinJ.:\ {;nion sr.orts figures ,Ju< li Phil irs handlE's the work, and as many of our athletP . .; !mow, tht>ir homt>·t0\'1'11 folks ar!\ lie;. t v. ell- informed on tlwir arth itit>s. It has bt>eon ~aid thut !Lob lla!{- er ca.n't lt>a\'P tht> Chi i'si lodgP \\ i:hnut half <:f Alhtm~· reading it in thP papers, ON FOUNDERS' DAY I ! I i ; l!==H=A=L=E =H=O=U=S=E ~!\! I, I' I I F 0 R RECORDS We will gladly answer your questions about printing GAZETTE PRESS PRINTERS \Hey\ \We'll be see1ng down at you TONY'S UNION INN 517 UNION ST. i I I t:. I . I : ~ .-· \\ere's tbe tettesb\M treat you tea\\y ~o tot. .. de\\c\OUS tlOUBlEM\K'l GUM . h m.pUS hf.e- t Wlt ca i Right in s ep .n.x Plenty 0 LEMINT Gu,l.~~· that's DOUB S ell fun to cheW \ reheshing fiavot:. o~BLEMINT fits all d 1 .Putd D \ fter every a . ''b ll sessions, a occasions:- u In· Chewing helps class, d.unng gy tl lps brighten. :r breath. ne 1~tt.l sweeten. you And it costs so u e yout: smile, t~o. DOUBLEMINT GUM you can enJOY 1 ackages todaY. ~ 1 . Buy se'Vera P v.ss dau.Y· I .'--~·

Page Four Willia,m and Mary I Sends Debaters To Argue Allian(e Philomathean Quintet To Attend Wesleyan Marriage Conference ~1iss JeannE' Rheindollar and ~!iss Doris Millet, debatet·s frorr. \Vrlliam und :.\1at y Collt>g<' wPre :;:-h<>du:ed to arrive on the l'nwr. College campus this altei nooa !01 d thret• da) ~La~ uu1 ing \\ l:ich the;, wEI mert with the Philomatte:m So~iet~ lorensir tea:u on tt:P ques- tion of a defense alliancP. ThP Wiiliam and :\1ary Collt>gr tc>wm will mt•o.;t till' l'nion t·t'\lll in Silliman Hall at 7 .3U tumunuw eve- ning. John Ruslwwski manager ul debate said tulia). Fnur undPrgraduatPS and In~tt·uc\ tor Henry A. Bakel will nav<'l to :\1iddletown, Conn .. Thu,q·day tor a thl'E'E' day ronf<'H?nCP on man tag<' problems at Wesleyan l'nin•rsit~. Tht>y will heal :\lrs. Katht·yn HPp- burn. mothPr of the motion pictuJ·p adt···~s. and :\II~. :\Iaty A. RPal'd. f<'aithful to Hamilton l'r.·.~illt•.Jt \\'illiam H. ('owh·~· of Httmilton ('ollt'gt• who an- ttoUill't'd Frhltt\ to Htt• li:i!amil- tun stud<>nt ho;h that lw would at'<'Pdt• to t!lt'lr' H'4Ul'>l to dt•- dint· thP presidt·n<·~· of tlw l'nin•J•sitv of Minnt•>uta, \''l'- ond hu>g~•t sta.tP unhPrsity, in ordt'r to ('arrv on tht· Hamilton t\du<·ational prog-ratn. Dr. Cow- lP~' wns FoundPrs' Day Spt>ak- <'1' at l'nion on!' ~ t>ar ago. THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1941 Dr. Danton Scores Hale House Waiters Have 'Best Job Set-up' Say HiHe~rWarMachine St~uden~ Worker~ in Third 'Union at Work' Survey \For ccnvemence and geltmg •· - -- -------- T · t • J • t your money's we: th out of a job, eu OniC mmtgran S .,orking in Hale H .. mse t•epresents til about 7, when he helps clean up dt•ift back as far as the service d F lk the steam ta·ble and ca1ries away counter lmprinte · 0. ways just about the best job ~et-up in the stacks of dishes which the dry- Onr:: of the waiters characteri:ed • co:Iege,' said one of the kitchen On Amertca, He Says crew af Union's di.•ing hall ict cr~ h:lVe made for him. He quits the Hale House fystem as a \fpa- \Tiw undisgui:>ed brutality, fiend- ish inconsi~tency, overpowerin;\ efficiency and cynical dishonesty\ of the pi esent German regime may make American's forget that the United ::ltat.es owe:; a great deal to tho::h~ Ge1 IlHll1J::.i \vhu can1e in nun1- bers dut ing the period of nationfll development. Professor George H. Dan tun 1 etuinded undcrgt aduntes in datly assembly Saturday morn- in!(. }Uo\iculing the notion that Ger- mans btaught only beer, cheese. and sau~agt:s to the New \\'ol'ld, thl' head of the nwdern languages dt>- partment declared that Germans l'Kt:el'led in \skil-l:> in finer handt- ct afts ... exact sciences\ and per- meated \our land with all kinds of major and minor traCl'S from Ger- many, including our hymnology, univer:;ities, kindergartens, and scientific labmatol'ies.\ neutrals. somet-ime after 7:10. terni.ty that doesn't exist.\ Alumn.j \I honestly don't think that, if The crew is cut down over who have werked in Hale House you have to work for your mealf, week-ends, when travel reduces the aJ·e hailed with a delight as gt·eat you cauld do any better in an off- number of customers. Most of the as that of any fraternity greeting campus jo·b,\ he went on. \You men are glad to take their turn at a long lost \old grad.\ ,,·ork about two hours and a half a b: ief vacation, with only a few If a.ny undergraduate wants e:!ch day, in 1 eturn f-or which you working seven days a week. These their favor he would do well to .,;ct two meal:;. You are paid 40 ·vacations previdE' opportunities for take note of this vehement state- cents an hour for overtime. Since i the men in activities to go away ment of one of the waiters: \\Ve the work come~ at a time when you I on tri·ps. At other times, they are don't Hke people who come in for .v.uuld be t:ating ~~:yw~y, i~ doesn't 1 a.Jlowed to get substitutes. breakfast at 9:30, or who anivE' ht:tder your partrctpatwn m extra- The Hale HcuEe crew manages 'ate for their other me:;ls!\ ~m ri~uhr activities.\ tJ amuse itself while engaged in -· -----0- -- The Ha:e House waiters seem to feeding the hungry stud.ent body. agree_ that they are fortunate to be : They all like Bill South, the cook, workmg whet·e thc>y are. The feel-. and Susie, hi:; good-natm·ed assist- ing of fellowship they have with' ant. Hale Hou:;e wit. in its own their \cwotomers\ and the fact I traditional form, keeps everyone that many of them are popular· more or less amused and the wait- members of the student body make 1 ers' report and co~-ments on the the dining hall a pleasant place tu . doings of the cu:>tomer:; u:;ually work. HU SHIH AT AMHERST Dr. Hu Shih, Chinese Ambassa- dor to the United States and h<m- orary chanceUor of Union last year, s;lOke at Amher.;t College at Am- herst, Mass, last night on \The Fight for Freedom in the Orient.\ Th£> Hale House crew numbers I :.!IIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliT.:. 20 men in aU. according to Pall! : = Howe. the headwaiter. These men 1;: =: all work on shifts, two of them on 1 := :: the morning shift, 19 or 20 work-' := w f t th p k t B k ;: ing at noon. and 15 to 19 at night. = e ea ure e oc e . 00 s = Caft>tPria in Morning § § A debate bE.'tween t·e.presentati\'<'>' of \\' c•sle) an and :\lt. Holy ok!' Col- lege on \\VumPn·~ Place· in thl' Home,\ wtll be a !eature of tlw con-fet Pnce- Vniun n_,presentativl'~ will be •Ruger :\larshall. E:dga1 Fish<>!', \Villiam Edwards ant.! Win- .,;tun Suundets. Wyatt Now Interviewing Sub-Freshmen in West It is apparent, Dr. Danton said, that in the coursP of German immi· gration the Getmans tended to los~ their political pntity s<>onPr than other groups but clung tenaciously to folkways of ho!11P, altar and so- cial life. \A lack of r:minentlv 'German' ttaits in our body politi~ and social proves that thP German element nll't hen\ what it sought,\ the In the morning, the headwaiter .;aid, ,·en·ice is cafete1·ia styl!', with '§ one waiter cleaning off dishes. At';: noon and evening meals, the wait-'::; ers !\ei ve 16 men each, and clean';: off their own tables. = With Such Titles as Other debates srhedulPd by t.hP l-'hilomatheans at·e wtth th<e L.'nivet- sitv of Da\·toP on :.\larch 7 and the U~iver:>itv' of Florida on :\.larch 11 The upba:te with thP CniVeJ'Sit~ o! Cincinnati ha• b<>en called off bt>- cause of Illnt•ss m the Cincinnati team. --0--- Dr. Johnson's Daughter On Tour for Britain Mi~s .:lliriam Johnson, da.ughtN of PmfE'.>Sot· and Mrs. Burges John- son, ;tarted Friday on a nationwide \good will\ airplane tour in the in- terpsts of the British-Amedcan Am- bulance Corps commpncing at Roosevelt B'ield. First stop is bE'- li<'Vf'd to ha:1, e bPen New Otleans. The tom is in ronnPction with the dl'ive to taise $300,000 for the purchase of .flying ambulanct>s. H. T. Vaningen. vice-presidPnt of thP British-American AmbulancP Cot P\· is al'companying :\1bs Johnson to supe1 vise the flight. The Waco planl' which }.lis~ Johnson IS ptloting is ~mallet· than the amphibian ambulancPs for which the corps is taising funds but is eqUipped for ambulance duty for exhibition purposes. At many points. tiw anival of th!' plane will be timed to coincide witil the arrival of tlw automobile ambu- lances whieh are now touring thE.' country. Dr. Johnson today said it was \possible\ that Miss Johnson may stop at Schenectady for an exhibi- tion on het· rE>turn from a month's hop to thP west. --·o--- Seniors Continue Quest For Placement Advice Two placement discu~~ions are •cheduled for \-Vednesday evening at 7:30 o'clock, one in Silliman Hall fat· law students. led by Professor A. J. Casner of Harvard Law School, the othE'r in Room 1. \\'a•h- bm·n Hall. conducted by Profes- ~m· G. \\'. Woodworth and Aesist- ant Dean Heruv L Duncombe. both of the Amo, 1~Ucl{ Sehoul of Bus-i- nes\ Admini>tration at Dat·tmuuth. Thursdav evening will feature in- tex-viev.;~ u\r senior Pllf?;ineering: stu- dents by K. A. .\1eade, a repre- sentative of the Dettuit office of the Genet al Ci.1otor ~ Corporation. Appointment; fm the intet views may be anangt•d through tlw Plac£>ment Bureau Officl'. 0 The Sophomo1·e Teeting Progt·am will be held on the momings of April 16 and 17. All sophomores will be eKpPcted to mal{e arrange- ments so that they will be able to tal{e the tests on these two morn- ings. The afternoon work on these two days will be conducted as usual .. C. F. GARIS. Dean DOUW F. BEEKMAN Gasoline, Brake S·ervice t:. S, Til'es, Motor Tuni>-up Exidt>s Lubrication Chains ''Regular Checkups Prevent Costly Accidents 11 601 UNION STREET Open {;ntll 11 P. :u. A~::;istant Sertetarv Ftt.•Lit.•tie ..~ •. \\'vatt 1~ in Tulc•du · tudav on the Sl!~·und lap uf a ::. ub-frcshri1an inter- VIewing tout· tu the }.liddle \\' etit. La>'t night. :.\11'. Wyatt eun;:luded inteiVI!'W\ in Clt>veland and .spol\e :lt a nlPeting- of Cnion alun1ni in the Clt>veland vicinity. Tomorrow he will travPl to Fon \\'ayne fo1· 1 dav·~ intPt·viewing befot·e con- tinuit;g to Chica~o where he will ~tav until :\lunda\' Ft idav night te · wtil addreso a- Chh-ago- alumni group. Lenten Season Has Ancient Tradition 1CuntinuPd !tom Pagt' 11 olivt> oil. Olin•s atP a sta.plt> food in Cit t:Pc:P. Ob.'Pl\'<'!S accredit this practice with a gPnPral dPstrurtion of health in GrPPCP and the mort' enlightPned claSSl'S. thPrPfore. haYe modified or di:<ca: dt>il thP pt actic<'. TherE> is some qUP:<tion of the effPct of such a fa....;t on !hP efficiPncy of army troops dm·ing the ptPSPnt war. Some argument Pxists that tlw Chri~tian observance datPs from tiH• feast of the Passover in H<>b! pv.- tradition. but hi:;torical sources in- di<'a.tp that tlw prP-Ea~t•·r fast was unknown in It~ prespnt form during thP fir~t fpw centm iPs of L'hristian- it~·. Early practicE> spems to have bPPn a ,;evPrP fast during tht> 40 hoUI·s betw<>en thP crucifixion of Chi ist and his resurection. Rv th!' thitd cE'ntUI-y. th<• pre-Ea,;tpr ·pet iod had been PXI<'ndPd to as mudt as two week~. Gradually, the fast bPcame mot P rigorouely · dPfinrd until in the seventh Cf'ntury it lasted 40 days in thP Roman Chmrh and embodied abstinence fron1 ret ta.in foods. prin- cipally flt>sh, for the entire petiod. Papal dh;pensation>' v.-hich are not uniform throughout the wotld have modified th£> practice. Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corp~~ ICE CREAM 0 Professor Smith Is Founder's Day Speaker 1Continuf'd from Page ll sentative Represent?\ in the fac- ulty lounge of Hale House for all .;tudents ·intNested in governmt>nt. An organizer of the Chicago Round Table, the oldest continuous t•ducational program on the ait·. T. V. Smith 1 osE' from .political obscur- tty in academic life, throug-h an Illi- nois state senatorship, to national prominence as Illinois Congress- ma n-at-larg t'. His radio debates with Senatot· RobPtl A. Taft in the ~pring of 1939 nave been published under the title, 'Foundation of Democracy.\ His political activities, however, have not pt·t>vented him from teaching philosophy courses at the Univer- sity of Chicago. Editor of the \Journal of Intct·- national Ethics.\ his most recE'nt publications have been \The Prom- '\\ of American Politics ... \Philoso- phers Speak for Themselves,\ \Be- ~ ond Conscience\ and \Creative Slieptics.\ i I. DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM We Serve Beier Food for Better Health 118-120 JAY ~T. Opp. New City Hall SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper. One Step frorr State Stree1 Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUk MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction\ • 598 B'way - For Better Values DAIRY PRODUCTS WM. GREEN JR. DAIRY 1701 Union St. Call Ball and Ball Will Call Tel. 3·2161 PHONE 6-3456 Paul said that one man is as- :: sign!'d to the faculty tablP, where he works fo1· the entire yea!'. The other oixteen men rotate their as- ' : signment.:l, so that they each have';: a different table every week. · : ThE' waiters and the kitchE'n crew : work about every third week-end ':;: Howe \aid defining a week-end a~':: that time between Saturday lunch- :: eon and Sunday night supper. :: Back in the Hale House kitchen, •;: the workers are of the opinion that . :;: the working conditions are very 1 : good. One member of this crew out- ':: lined his working time as follows: :: He arrives at the kitchen early . :: enough to eat his own meal before ;: 6 o'clocli and then goes to work 1 :;: putting food on the cash cuetomers 1 ;: plates. This p1·ocess continue~ un- ;: IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State Street -Our Service is Ideal --Just Try One Haircut - The Pocket Book of Verse Captain Blood-Sabatini Story of Mankind-Van Loon Sunset Gun-Dorothy Parker Green Mantle-Buchan Return of the Native-Hardy Pride and Prejudice-Austen The Murder of Roger Ackroyd -Christie The Lodger-Loundes The Way of All Flesh-Butler And Now Goodbye-Hilton Mystery of the Dead Police -MacDonald For 25c The Union College Book Store North Wing Washburn Hall - :illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll r. Celebrate Founders' Day 11 How about getting the whole gang together?\ at the • • • VAN CUR·LER TAP ROOM I I I I i I i I I I I I ! I I I n sl Cl h h p ir t•• ~I c p tl p 0 s ir c q d n 0 C• a il n t t a 0 b a c h a n ii \i p i~ b c 0 d e s t a t t f c t 0

·i~eu ouse to tate- \\Ve for assa- hon- year, Am- \The lllti§ yd all - = I I ! I I That T. V. Smith has added 769 new admirers was the only conclu- z.511 sion that we cotlld draw from the comments of the student body on his two appearances. Many termed him the most effective extra-cam~ pus speaker they have heard dur- ing their respective c~llegiate ca- VoL LXIV., No. 36 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1941 PRICE FIVE CENTS ----------,-------- _,_ reers. ParticHlarly impressive to us was the spirit of the informal \bull ses- sicn\ that took place in Hale House Wednesday afternoon for about an hour and a half. The frankness of the man in outlining the \gory de- tai:s\ of his poJ.itical career and in admitting that \there certainly isn't place for more than a dozen, at most, T. V. Smiths in the Con- gress\ was refreohing. The experience of hearing and ~peaking with such a man-the pe- culiar combination of \regretful practicality over theur•etical ideals\ that is the nature of too few of our public servants today-was a rich one. We'd like to :see more T. V. Smiths a;; campu,; visitors. A neatly tied bundle was tossed into the lap of the Hale House Committee this week when the qHestion of student manners in the dining hall was ra·ised. The com- mittee is faced with the necessity of serving as a proctor of table conduct. Should the committee serve as a double-edged sword -- monitoring staff and students? This question was raised when the committee complained of the tendency of some waiters to slap food down on the tables before students. Paul Howe. headwaiter, answered by pointing out that the manners of many stu- cents were far from what they should be and in turn suggested that the Hale House Committee try SCD To Broadcast Marc·b Conference On ·Democracy Ai·d April Forum Is Planned By Four College Group During Sage Meeting A meeting of the executive com- mittee of the Student Committee for Democ1acy at Russell Sage Col- lege last Tuesday decided that the four Capitol District Members would cooperate on the organiza- tion of a broadcast on \Food for Small Democracies.\ The broadcast will be held some- time in March and it was also de- cided a conference would be held in April which will gather together all the youth organizations in this part of the country whose activities are along the lines of those of the Student ·Committee for Democracy. Held at Russell Sage Hall on the campus of Russell Sage College In Troy, the meeting was composed of membe1s of the Committees at the four schools. The representatives outlined the work the committees and the college have done thus far in connection with the aims and plans of the S8D. to r·aise standards of the diners Mobile Kitchen P.Janned the:r.selves. The delegation from Skidmore T. V. SMITH BECOMES UNION LITT. D. The committee member who presented an outline of the plan brought the whole incident to our they have been following to date attention painted a picture of din- which has as its objective the pur- ers in an uproar. He told of a roll chase. for $1700, of a mobile kitchen tossing episode at a table which unit to ·be sent to Great Britain. was in full view of the debating In connection with this drive, the 1 team ft·G:n William and Mary. Such Skidmore Glee Club will appear at 'P I\ t • I w f L 0 f 1 I T • i~~ide~~~sp~:~\~h~:;~~e rather than ~~~~h ~tna~~ ~~wp~~~~dsc~r t~~ 0 1 ICa ay 0 I e S OpiC at:~·.~~~ie~~a!h~a~~e~~er:~~~g~; ~~~~~;~o~il~l~~s~~:~~~~~:!·i~~~·iinn; Of Talk At Founders' Day Ceremony improved in some cases. Bad man- planned which Will secure students ners in Hale House are the exeep- and .faculty members from the four •· ---- - ---·-- · tion rather than the rule. schools for the purpose of conduct- In Memorial Chapel at the an-' 1 d the pr'vat s marking the The Student Council meeting was ing a program similar to the radio nual Founders' Day ceremonies and' c u es : I e a .. a ·bout to adJ'ourn. Suddenly, from in Hale House for two hours Wed-1 poverty of rts power. the rear of Old Chapel, came a mo- pr~~:~~er~ea~~~~ l!~::nn~:~red by nesday afternoon Professor T. V. Following the s·peech President tl 'on \to put a mem.ber of t·he ath- Smith, fOimer Congressman-at-:, Fo_ x presented Professor· Smith t-he Skidmore girls to talk on vari- th th h d f d t letic department on the admissions ous ·phases of work for democracy. large from the state of Illinois and! W1 e onorary egree 0 oc or committee.\ There was a brief, Food sales are being held and such professor of philosophy at the Uni- of letters. The Professor wa~ pre- cool discussion. The motion was re- class, club and department activ- versity of Chicago, held the philo- sented ·by ~udge Harold J. Hmman sophically and politically-minded of Albany m behalf of_ the trus~ees. worded, making it a recommenda- ities as bridges, and English read- students of Union College spell- Doctor Fox called him a philos- tion to the trustees, specifying that ings have been carried on, all in bound with stories and anecdotes 1 o.pher wh. o. .dares to _beco_m,e. a prac- the Athletic Director be the mem- line with the drive for the mobile t 1 1 d 1 t h concerning his political career. 1 Ica po Iticran an a po I !Clan w o ber appointed to the committee. kitchen unit. In addition, voluntary I has the conviction to remain a phil- And then the motion was passed, collections have been and will be \The Political Way of Life\ was osopher. Professor John L. March. first by a large majority, then taken at various college functions the professor's topic in Memorial 1 senior faculty member at Union in- unanimous:y. to aid in the attaining of the goal Chapel last Wednesda.y where he 'I vested the recipient with the hood At first glance, there is little in of $1700. spoke before the student body and of the doctorate. this action to inspire interest. The The report of the R. P. I. chapter a larg7 g:oup of guests . P_receeding I On Wednesday afternoon after action is incorrect, in that the rec- of the Student Committee ·for De- the prmcrple .actd::ss Presid,;nt Fox the formal exercise Professor ommendation should rightly have mocracy was chiefly concerned traced the hrst01 > of the Ode to Smith led an informal discussion in been made to the president, and the with the assigned work of that Old Union\. Hale house lounge on \Whom Does affair is not unlike similar student member school, that of contact \In America we have two great a Representative Represent\. He council actions of the past. <Continued on Page 4) traditions, always in partial war. stated that a rep! esentative repre- Even if the improbable should o sometimes in total war with each sents no one except himself. The happen, and Mr. Wittner be made NEWS !N BRIEF other,\ Professor Smith stated. type of man in the national legis- a member of the Admissions ·com- \The moral counsels are not to llature, pwfessor Smith went on to mittee, there is little of excitement \BE-st Enjoyed Films\ compromise the principles ·by which say, is quite high, .but the usual in the occurrence. We are sure Dr. Last Tuesday evening Professor we live. If we do so we cornpro- type in the state legislature is not Waldron would not object to his Harold A. Larrabee, Chairman of mise ourselves and suffer the im-1 of such a high grade of intelligence. presence on the committee, we real- the field of Philosophy, presented, pair. m. ent of a .. sense of guilt. The I Students were given a further in- ize that his position would probably in a talk over station WGEO, the 1 t 1 d t 1 t be similar to that of many of the ten best movies he had seen during po 1 tca .tra 1 ro~s coun~e s us . 0 sight into national and state poli- . compromise all tssues m conflict' tics when Dr. Smith told several committee's members. who meet the year 1940. Th: prog:am 1s ar- with one another. If we do not do l\off the record\ stories. His audi- on!y occasionally, and who merely ranged by the RadtO Woi kshop and so we are not good sports nor in- h 1 ·d h' t'l t · t' f 1 I. db M M'll 'd t 1 • 1 ence e tm un I ram Ime and discuss matters o genera po wy. presente y yron r s, pres1 en deed good citizens of a democracy. th .. l't' 1 b 11 . .. b k What commands attention, how- of the workshop. The program was , . 1 e po r Ica u sesswn ro e up ever, is the spirit which, on the called the \Collegians View of the He. concluded b~: sa?mg that our 1 only because he had to leave. Not surface. would seem to lie behind F'lms\ pol!tiCa! way of life mcluded both one student left the lounge though this action. Does the majority of 1 Professor Larrabee pointed out realms, but it inc.ludes the public: it was uncterstood that ~nybody the student body, or, what is more that he had not seen The Great for the potency of rts power and ex- could leave when ever he wtshed. important, the athletic department Dictator or The Long Voyage 1 itse~f. feel that the admissions com- Home, and that if he had he would Mountebanks Prepare Sets 1 Gl Cl b t G• Th mittee is prejudiced against ath- have in all probability placed them I ee u 0 lYe ree letes? Are there a large number of among his \most enjoyed\. The For \Inspector General\ . 1 Concerts Over Week-end persons who feel that good high list includes: The Grapes of Wrath, school athletes should be admitted The Baker's Wif-e, Our Town, The of V:';~~et~~:~=~t~~b~~n~~~~~n~ati~~ I Three appe~ranc~s in tw_o widely regardless of narks? The obvious Great McGinty, Of Mice and Men, month awa\ the stage and produc- 1 . separated cities Will constitute the answer would pro'bably be, \No\, to Rebecca, Foreign Correspondent. \ Glee Club's p! f th · tion end of the Mountebank's new ·ogram or e1r both these questions. Pride and Prejudice, Dr. Ehrlich's play has already reached fn:J fourth we~k-end away, Edmund G. But if the Union student body is, Magic Bullet and My Favorite stride Warren Kimme'· , 41 stao·e Kelly, bu!Omess manager announced as a whole, of the honest opinion Wife. This is the second year for • J ' \' Tonight th GJ Cl b ·n · d b d 't and production manager said this e ee u WI smg that more athletes coul · e a m1 - this program on the radio and, as week. Kimmey has exp~essed his before the Two by Two Club. of ted, if the undergraduates really last year, Professor Larrabee plans desire of the completion of the first Glens Falls, and tomorrow .mght feel that too many prospective ·team to state his reasons for choosing t b t ek before the Delta Kappa Soronty of candidates have been refused, this, these pictures in a chapel talk se Y nex we · Binghamton. then. is a matter for the attention sometime in the future. ~bly assisted by a sta,ff co~-' The following will make the of the whole college. Round Table Discussion pnsed of Wallace Morgan 44, WI!- trip: First Tenors, Edward Bear- Presidt>ntial Problems Members of the Psychology De- liam Massey '43, Charles Loth-, geon, Robert Horstman Amasa Dr. William Alfred Eddy dis- partment will participate in a radio ridge ' 44 • Vincent Palladino ' 44 • 1 Howland Kenneth Mack~nzie Al- closed Wednesday that he would broadcast tomorrow afternoon in Jules Viglielmo ' 44 • Charles Wilson ·bert Ren~ldi Edward Schulze 'Las- prefer a major's commission in the another presentation of the Union ' 43 • Ralph Dressel ' 44 • Abraham kar Schwart~. Second Tenors 'Alex- United States Marines to his pres- College Science Round Table series. Bakal, ' 42 · ~ud Alieley ' 4 4~ r;ou ander Arony, George Clark, Ed- ent ·position as president of Hobart Professor John L. March will Loeb 43 · R!Chll;rd Mackenzie 44, ward Fliegel, Robert Frelick, College. That brings to two the up- open the discussion with a general Robert Connell 44, Arthur Lowen- Charles Gould, John Poole Clair state colleges which have entertain- resume of the study of Psychology, thai '42, and Stanley Green ' 4 3, Smith, Donald Stevens, r~orman ed worries over the futures of their contrasting the old ideas with the much progress can be seen. Vivian. Second Basse~. Robert For- chief executives in the past week. new. Professor Ernest Ligon's talk Model settings which a:·e used rest, Judd G1·ey, Theodore C. Jos- Hamilton has just settled back on Character and Professor Frank- to Eee the actual movement of the lin, Edmund Kelly, Edward Miller after President William H. Cowley lin Chillrud's views on education play and which are also of me for and John Shaw Baritones, Paul decided not to accept an offer to will round out the discussion, the future perfomances, have been con-. Best, George Coley, Thomas Demp- become head of the University of [third in this series of science broad- structed by Arthur Lowenthal 'l.nd I Eter, William Johnson, William Minnesota. casts. Stanley Green. Stillman and Clarence W<Jodward. Freshman Representatives Elected; Glee Club Dance Voted By Council I Ha·igh, Schulz Appointed; Sophomores. Juniors I I Are Nominated; Furlong Named as Secretary; Admissions Committee Addition Recommended Joint \'punsurshi•p of a dance to MILESTONES ilouglrtun Is Enga~wd The Ren•n•nd Mr. HerbNt R. Houghton. ,Jr., CollegP Chaplain, announced his £>ngagemPnt to Miss Mar)· Gulna,e, daughter· of Mrs. ,James Q. Gulnac of RPns- s.-laer, N. Y., this Wt>t>k. ThP date for the marriage has as ) et not bt>en decided, but, according to Mr. Houghton, th.- ceremon)· will bt> hPld soon alter com- mencement. Miss Gulnac is the sister of John Gulnac, '43. Both her fath- er and another brother are Union graduates and are mem- bers of Al•p:J1a Dt>lta Phi fratPr- nity. Tlit> bride-to-be attt>nded St. Agnes School, Albany and grad- uatt>d from Rollins Collt>ge, Win- ter Park, Florida. She is now associated with the management cf the \Vhale Inn. Goshen, Mass. Baker Is Father Startlt>d and amazed tht> stu- dents of Mr. Ht>nry Bakt>r's Tuesday morning dassPs dumb- ly accepted a hand cut of per- fectos celebrating, as Mr. Baker explained, the birth of a sun the night before, Mr. Ba.kt>r is an instructor in tht> social studit>s division. The baby w.eight>d st>vt>n pounds six ounces at birth and, accoi·ding to the proud father, will bt> namt>d David Allen, Both mother and infant doing fin£>, thank you. ThP pt>rfectos were, accc·rding to sPveral students, quite good. Mr. Baker hilll8elf had no com- ment to make on the subject of their excellence. Freshmen For Class Prepare Dance Skidmore Dates Will Arrive by Bus; Bids Are Still Available With Red and White co:ors sup- plying the motif and Larry Audette supplying the music the annual Freshman Dance will be in full swing tomonow night in the Alum- ni Gymnasium. Skidmot e dates will be transported on a special bus to the campus and they are ex- pected to arrive about 5:30 in time for· dinner at Hale House. There are still a few reservations left for this bus and a: I fJ eshmen interested should contact either Richard Mac- kenzie, North Section, North Col- lege or John Barton, Phi Gamma Delta as soon as possible. HPlp Asked Special elaborate decorations are planned and as there will be an intramural basketball game on Sat- urday after noon the bleachers wili have to be removed after 3:30. Freshmen f1 ee at this time are ask- ed to cooperate with the decorations committee and help with the work. follow the C'nion-Skidmore Glee Club Concnt on April 26. with the Student Council and the Glee Club \'\tHning l'<JUal rl'~·ponsi.bility for : 1 hP allair. was> approved Wednes- : <lay night at tht· Iegular Council · m('eting. ; The ·Council abo voted to provide 1 a committee to con;·ider the a:bol- 1 ishment of the So.phomore Di::;ci- 1 p!ine Committee and a change in the date of frat<'!·nity initiations, bt•,·idPs completing it::; scheduled bu~ines~. The re·presentatives voted unanimously to recommend to the tru.·tees that the Director of Ath- letic>' .be made a member of the ad- missions committee. Jospph F. Furlong, Jr., '42, was elected sect etary of the Council to rPplace Andrew Drennan Kay, '42. Ful'!ong is a member of Beta Theta Pi, Kay is a neutral. Fn•shmen Parties Discussed Boyd Goldf't', '41, presenting a report drawn up Cecil Angel, '41, and himself concerning the Union- Skidmore freshman parties, point- ed out the difficulties in the pres- ent means of running the partiel:'. Union's anangements for the par- ties, heretofor·e made by Frederic Wyatt and Mrs. Fox, involve more detail work than either of these two persons wishes to continue handling, Goldt>r said. The Council voted to have its Chairman appoint a committee of three men to direct the parties next year. Two motions aiming to make the parties a tax- t'Upported activity were declared out of order fo1· Jack of a second. Robert Haigh, '44, and Bruno Schulz, '44, were appointed to the council as freshman fraternity and n£>utral representatives, respective- ly. Haigh is a member of Phi Delta Theta. Six juniors were nominated for election to the council to replace Andrew Drennan Kay and Benja- min Jakobowski. These men in- clude Harry Rifenbark, Henry Weisheit, Bernard Haake, James Tee!, John McManus, and Robert Newton. All are neutrals. Eight members of the· l:'ophomore clasos were nominated for the elec- tion of a fraternity re.presentative· to replace Robert Horton, '43. The men nominated included Robert Carnright, Theta Delta Chi; Stan- ley Davis, Alpha Delta Phi; Frank Jones, Delta Chi; Paul Santee, Phi Delta Theta; Robert Hayner, Delta Upsilon; Stanley Steingut, Kappa Nu; Frank Falamont, Al- pha Phi Delta; and Burton Ball, Delta Phi. Union-Sh;idmore Concert Tickets will be on sale at the door for the benefit of those not alr·eady supplied and a small supply is still · on hand at the book store, the price of the bids is $110 with or without a date. The motion that the Student Council sponsor the dance follow- ing the April 26 Union-Skidmore Glee Club Concert was presented by Edmund Kelly, '41, Glee Club representative on the Council. When Kelly's original motion, that the· Student Tax Committee under- write the dance, with the profits to be divided between the Council and the Union and Skidmore Glee Clubs, met opposition, he suggest- ed instead that the· council and the Union Glee Club assume joint spon-· sor·ship of the affair. Under this plan, which was accepted, the coun- cil and the Glee Club will share equally the profits or the losses. President DickinE·on E. Griffith was authorized to appoint a co-chair- man of the dance from the Council, who will serve with a Glee Club member. George Norris, '41, presented a motion .to the council to abolish the Sophomore Discpline Com- mittee, creating in its stead a com\ mittee composed· of two seniors, two juniors, and two sophomores. Richard Mac!tenzie and John Bar- ton head the dance committee with Paul Meyers and Judd Grey in charge of the orchestra. Other members of the committee include Donald Beal, decorations; Robert Haywood, patrons; Cornelius Dan- dereau. ticliets and At thur Pastore publicity. According to a statement issued by cla.ss president Clowe today, the freshman class is looking forward to making this year's dance a great success, with hopes of a large crowd on hand. During the discussion on the dis· cipline committee question, which was broacened to include the whole question of class .spirit at Union, the- date of fratern>ity initiations, was> brought under fire. Upon the motion of Harry Crosby, '41, Presi- dent Griffith was instructed to ap- point a committee to study the question. Crosby called the shift in the date of fraternity initiations from February to December \the greatest blow to the ft aternity sys- tem at Union. in the history of the school.\

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1941 -~---·------=-~ - ~------------------------------------------ ffionrnr FoL':-.:DH> 1877 \.1 Ct!usa Pas a Parolt .·1 ssai'' 1\Iember of the As::;uduted Colh:gutte Pres::l ttiH1 dbttibuto1· of the Ctli~ ll::'giate Dtgest. __ The offieial new:>pap\r uf the :;tudeut~ uf l:HJ<JH Cull~~\- l'ulJ!i~iled Tue~­ Uay and F'rith1y~ throughout the eulle~e yta:.:l'.~--o--- i,;ll.Ituri.ll'! -Itoum•, Sl!hlllailllali---L:muu 1.-'ullcg~ l'alllJlU\. TdetJiiutw, Schenectudy, 4-U U.l3. Publletitloll ('HYf~TIIe <..iazt:ltt-· l'n:.,~-j34 ~,_at~-Ht., ~:klh:ne~·W~ly, ~:-\'\---:-; Telephone 4-HH _ __ __ l~II\tereJ-at the Sehet)(!et~-ltb·- P-u-~-Orrk~: a~ ~~~.:t;utl- Cia::;;; ~Ial'l )latt\.·r. Subscripttoillii·ll-eF'ive l'eiit;-u-~-uiJY.; ~~uu i;-~ ~t~i-;- deil\·t.:ort:d auy\\Ticr~ In the l;nited State~. St>lliOI' Bo:ll'd Al'Ina.nd V. Ft·igenbaum ........................... Editor-in-Chief 1'-aP('a ·:-.;u ll,·u~t ·1-i:~:n Lasltar Schwartz ............................... Business Ma-nagl'r 1'-appa :.=u ll.t·u:-t· 1-la:.n :Solomon Blechman ............................. Managing Editor :. ~'llddlt· ~~·...t !ltll, ·'\l rh l'uHq,',l' ti-~l~ltiti Samuel Pol'tnu~ .................................. Associate Editut· t~apJ;a ~u llt·n~~· 1-'i'~~:n Jonathan Pt>arsun .................................. Spotts Editor :--!ig111:l J='lai l'l.u t i-ti\:.;1 J. Donald Haigh ............................. Ckculation Manager !'hi i'<'ILl 'l'h<l.i ll\ll\' 1-l~ll ---------- Junior Board Robert Bisl::.op Harvey Fishbone Robel t Haynt:I Thomas O'Connor Granger Tripp ~ophonwrl' Board Thomas Cullen, William Hart, Albert Kronick, Edward Johnson, Arthur Pastore, Seymour Thickman ---·---- Busin~ss Staff Justin Perl~tein Jo>l<'Ph Jaycox StanlPy Greenstein J1.1elville 1\le:;:o.,nger David Rm:pnblum REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • Los ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO Issue Editor ..................................... Thomas O'Connor Albert Kronick Assistants Granger Tripp Friday, Febt·uary 28, 1941 BEST WISHES FOR '44 Seymour Thickman Congratulations and best wishes are in order for the Class of 1944. Not only are its members creating an integral link in the sort of tradition that makes for a richer college life, but they are expressing their own willingness to \pull to- gether\ as a group. A class dance for the sophomores is no new stol'Y; fo1· the freshmen it is a fresh experience, and one in which they have practically a free rein. The spontaneity of acceptance of the dance to be held in the Alumni Gymnasium tomorrow night demonstrates hearty class unity a.nd genuine college spirit. With the increasing seriousness of the headaches of this wo1·ld, we tend to minimize the importance of things going on in our own immediate spheres. Too often, ,students in college, feeling dwarfed by the hugeness of the wol'ld about them, fail to realize that they are responsible and have, right here, infinite opportunity for self-development and self-expression. Democracy is a term which can become hackneyed quickly if used as a convenient label for a generality, but no better ex- ample can be found of true democracy in a college than spon- taneity of action and active cooperation of the members of the group. True, the Class of 1944 is \testing its wings,\ but the ex- perience it gives itself in promoting and carrying out its own affair will prove invaluable in later college and graduate years. It is generally acknowledged that we get out of some- thing exactly what we put into it. The Class of 1944, as a body, can derive inestimable value from its dance if only by showing itself that it can vi:ork as a body, that it does have identity as an entity, that it does have an essential part in the life of the college, and that it can be a creative instru- ment. Real alumni spirit is bom in college, when we take an active part in the life of the college and come to feel that we have the ability to take a part in the building of the institu- tion with which we shall be forever associated as a graduate, whether in name or spirit. Carrying through the idea of being a \real\ part of the college as early as its freshman year, the class of 1944 might begin to think of other means of doing things for it- self and for the college. As an integral part of Union, we are all interested in her development, and now is one of the times when we can do our share to prove that fact. Because of the uncertainty of world affairs, enrollment at colleges all over the country is dropping off perceptibly. One thing the class of 1944 might think about is a way not only of continuing the tradition, spirit and quality of Union College, but also of building upon what we already have, so that it may always be pt·oud of the part which it has taken in creatinO' a strono·er \' 0 Union for the years to come. So best wishes for a grand dance and hopes for future suc- cess to the Class of 1944 I FAILLE'S PAINTINGS ATTRACT MANY TO EXHIBIT Carl A. Faille, noted landscape paintel', (right), is .pointing out to Professor E. 8. C. Smith, an interesting geological formation hP has painted. Others who were viewing pictures at this time wt>r(', I. to r.: Clifford Tepper, '44, Robert E. Acker, '43, and Irving Lifset, a visiting· student from Hartford, Conn., Weavpr High School. In spite of the spread of war •----- and charges that materialism has intensified throughout the world, art is increasingly appreciated on the campus. So popular with stu- dents were the paintings of Carl A. Faille during their weel{'S ex- hibition by the Schenectady section of the College Women's Club, that President Fox al'!'anged for an- other week's showing of the pic- tures in the Mountebanks Theatre. The clever use of benches and lighting, has turned this into a de- lightful art gallet·y, open daily 4 to 6. Proof of the genuine interest in the paintings is evidenced in the number of orders received by Mr. Faille <pronounced as if spelled \Fy.\) The special process of re- production of his own paintings which Mr. Faille has perfected dur- ing the past ten years, makes it possible for him to sell to students fully colored reproductions of his paintings for from one to twenty- five dollars, depending on the size. These will be handled through the College Bookstore. The original paintings are valued from $300 to $500 each. Already Mr. Faille has received more than $150 worth of orders for reproductions of his paintings. He also mid a canvass, enti-tled \The Idaho Sheep Range,\ in which a happy gleam of light penetrates through heavy clouds, hovering over a large f!oclt of sheep, and strikes an old pine tree whose roots ar·e gnarled around a h1:1ge rock rising from its eroded :base. In his drawl, not unlike that of Bob Burns of radio fame, Mr. Faille answers the eager questi'ons of students who attend the exhibit, which is open daily, inch1d-ing Sun- day, from 4 to 6. He explains how by using single strokes, never painting over, he achieves the bright coloring in his canvasses that present definite 'three-dimen- sional effects. · Since Faille-processed reproduc- tions of his own paintings are al- most exact replicas, in color and form, one suspects he uses a com- bination color camera and dye process, learned from his father's silk-dyeing plant. But the Faille process of reproduction of paint- ings is a secret. Its commercializa- tion is being considered ·by the ar- tist who developed it so that any- one who wanted to live with a good picture may obtain one, no matter how little money one had. Mr. Faille likes the campus and its surrounding Mohawk Valley so much, he has taken up residence here so he may paint Jackson's Garden and other landscapes in this region. Gordon Jacobs, Full-Time Engineer, Subject of 'Union At Work' Series \One thing I'll always remember<~--------­ about my job is the wind that comes all the way from the Pacific to the Helderbergs without stop- ping and whistles around the trans- mitter building,\ said Gordon Ja- cobs, '43, as he led a reporter into the minor hurricane outside the Electrical Engineering laboratory. This hard-working student engineer is earning .part of his college ex- penses and saving money to go to graduate school 'by serving as a maintenance engineer at the Gen- eral Elecl!·ic Company's television and frequency modulation trans- mitters in the Helderberg moun- tains. Gordon is probably the only one of Union's many working students who carries a full 40-hour week working schedule besides his regu- lar classes. He is the only student among his co-workers on the trans- mitter. A full electrical engineering schedule and a 40-hour work week doesn't seem, on the surface, to be within the realm of human possi- bility. The secret, Gordon divulged, is simply that he has learned how to stucly and be on the alert for transmission defects at the same time. \The General Electric Com- pany has been very considerate,\ he said. \They allow me to study while I am on the job, provided, of course. that I take the regular half- hourly meter readings and see that the progmm is going out satisfac- torily.\ \I usually leave Schenectady be- tween 2:30 and 3:00 o'clock, \Gor- don went on. \I arrive at the Hel- derbergs in time to go to work by 4:00, and stay on the job until 10:00, when the station signs off. My last h.our's work <Jonsists of a chilly rrde home. I am really lucky that the General Electric company in- cludes t·he time I spend going to and from my job in my 40 hours, though. They .pay me so much a mile for my h·ansportation, too.\ In the now-familiar \words-of- one-syllable\ electrical engineers have to explain their artistry to the uninformed. This is how Gor- don explained the workings of W2XOY, the General Electric's Fre- q.uency Modulation station. Most of the programs originate in Build-ing 34, otherwise known as the WGY Building, in Schenectady. They are sent by FM radio to the Helder- bergs, where they are re-broadcast on a different frequency, from the transmitter station. The advantage of this re-bJOadcasting process comes from the height of the ttans- mitter, which is something in the neighborhood of 1800 feet above sea level. Gordon, who has the transmitter building, and the responsibility .for transmitting the program, all to himself, has only his meter reading to attend to if all goes well. If the Schenectady sending apparatus acts up, however, he must ·put on a program of recorded music an- nouncements and all, whil~ the transmission -is being restored. \I got stuck with that job the other day,\ Gordon smiled. \The only record in the building happen- ed to ,be Schubert's \Unfinished Symphony\ so I had to play that three times before the regular pro- gram was restored.\ \Television 'is rebroadcast by about the same process,\ our engi- neer re.ported, \except that two engineers work at the transmitter instead of one. ·One of the main jobs with a television program is to s_ee that the 'synchronizing pulses', wh1ch co-ordinate the work of the transmitter and that of the receiv- er, are properly adjusted. Usually we spend the first .hour sending out test programs, which are followed by regular three to four hour broadcasts.\ The frequency modulation job, in- volving six ·hours alone on the windy Helderbergs, sounded a little lonely and a bit uninteresting. En- gineer Jacobs didn't agree, however.· (Continued on Page 4) CALENDAR Tomorrow 10:00 a. m. Daily Assembly. Speaket·, Mr. W. V. B. Van- Dyke, Int. G. E. Co. 1:45 p. m.-WGY 'broadcast. Dr. Ernest M. Ligon: \The Dan- get's of Mass Enthusiasm.\ 2:30 :p. m.-Fencing, Union vs. Hamilton at Clinton. Varsity Swimming, Union vs. Mass. State, away. 5:30 p. m.-Union College Sci- ence Roundtable broadcad by WGY: \Psychology\ with Pro- fessors March, Ligon and Chillrud. 8:15 p. m.-Glce Club Concert for the De-lta Kappa Sorority aRd the Monday Afternoon Club at Binghamton, N. Y. 9:00 p. m.-1:00 a. m.-Freshman Dance at the AlumRi Gym- nasium. Sunday 11:00 a. m.-cSunday Service, the Rev. Phillips Packer Elliott, First Presbyterian Church, Brooklyn. 3:00 p. m.-Empire State Town Meeti·ng of the Air in the Old Chapel: \Should Our Public School Text Bool{s be Cen- sored?\ Dean. George E. Payne of the N. Y. U. School of Education and Profeesor Robey of Columbia. 4:00 p. m.-5:00 p. m.---Organ re- cital in Memorial Chapel. Hans Vige,land, guest artis-t. 4:30 p. m.-News Commentary by Dt·. Walter C. Langsam over WGY. 8:00 p. m.-Glee Club Concert, West Presbyterian Church in Binghamton. Monday 7:30 p. m. - Band Rehem·sal, gym. Tuesday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Mr. Cadman Hislop: \The Mohawk Valley :as a Sample of Amer- ica.\ 1:30-3:30 p. m.-Record Concert in the Memorial Chapel. 8:15 p. m. - Meeting of the Eastern N. Y. section of the American Chemical Society in the -Chemistry Laboratm·y. Dr. Walter R. Meyer will speak on \Engineering Aspects of Metal Coatings.u Call Ball and Ball Will Call IN THE MAIL Dormitory \Rail' Race\ To the Edi-tor: Most residents oi South Section, South College are proud of the fact that residents of other sec- tions call it a \Rat-Race\. The explanation under the picture on the back of last Friday's Concm·dy under-rates the section to say the least. Also, it is far from a state- ment of the truth. Lloyd Webb's ancestors have been famou::; for their big-ga:rne hunting for five generations. Lloyd, desiring· to foHow family tradition. decided that mice werP about his size. Accordingly, he set numerous saares in his room to catch the wary beast. OnC' nigi1t the boys WC're awak- ened by a horlible scream emitting from his room. Investigation proved that Ice had cau;o;ht his hand in one of his traps. A few days later, however, he bagged two fine specimens. Lloyd wa:s undecided whether to have them stuffed or to save the pelts l!mtil there were enough for a fur coat for his best gill. In either case, the animals would have to be skinned. Richard Ko <Grind> Wntanabe, pre-med stu- dent, agreed to do the job fore- seeing the possibility of biological researcr.. To the best of my knowledgC' there are no other trapping en- thusiasts in the section and the1·e is therefore, no con test. Hoping that this wi'll clear up any misunderstanding, remain, Sincerely, W. J. Stillman, '42 UNION MEN Be completely well groomed - Get a Haircut - ACME BARBER SHOP \Vh·ere Service is a I'leo.~ure 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 PHONE 6-3456 PINE GROVE DAIRY, INC. 61 ER!~ BOULEVARD PHONE 4-7741 SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR <linurnrbirttnta GAZETTE PRESS Printers SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY The University of Buffalo A four year curriculum eompleted in three calendar years, by me-ans of the quarter .plan. (Four quarters of eleven weeks each, to the school year). The dental and medical schools are closely affiliated instruc- tion in the baBic medical sciences being under the supe;vision of the medical faculty. Clinical .practice of dentistry in all its varied aspects, is supervised by the dental division, and' there is an inti- mate association with the clinics of severa·l hospitals. Periods of int~rnship in two _.general and one children's hospital duling the semor year, offermg unusual experience in clinical· observation diagnosis, and treatment of dental conditions. ' Next regular session will start the first week in July 1941. For further information address: For fmther information address THE SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY 25 Goodricl!. Street Buffalo, N cw Y orlt s the bal the ir:tg gin bac soli Mo hm the v ne~ sch an) tea the ath leg be ha' WC' I l'UI 193 All He fa! Bil Pa Opi Ch we wo thE fo1 thE an. Fo lcr m1 Ill! me br: wi 9:: ch -=

on, on the his ous the ak- ing his to the for In Ko ical dgP en- up s, i- THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1941 Page Three $ $ ,J il (~I{ Kappa Sigs-Phi Gams 1n • Cage Finals Tonight 1• f) 'I' $ Fouls Don't Pay Getting back to Alexander Field. It looks f1·om here as the $10,000 \face-lifting\ was well spent. Right now (if it doesn't snow before we go to press) ycm could play baseball on the new surface. There's no snow inside the running track ex- cept in the far corners of the outfield where the sun hasn't penetrated as yPt. Positively no pla3•ing \\'ill be pe1·mitted on the field this spring. The grass has to have a chance to ge wll started. In beating Delta Chi, 26-18, the Kappa Sig cagers had to over- come a 14·12 halftime deficit. Del·ta Chi was htlrt badly by the lo~s on fouls of Bob Hallenbeck, its high , scorer of the nig.ht.. Bartholomew * * paced the winners. with nine Williams and Ha:milton are on· points. Hallenbeck had seven for next year's freshman basketball Delta Chi. schedule. It will be the first team Phi Gamma Delta piled up its any yearling five has met either ma.r~gin on foul points to beat Beta team. It all comes about through Theta Pi, 25-19. The Betas com- the state ruling that high school mitted 15 fouls to seven for the athlete~ cannot compete with col-: winners and the Phi Gam court- lege freshmen. Next year will also ment sank seven from the 15-foot be the firBt time that freshmen. line to one for the Betas. Each have been allowed tn play mid- team made nine field goals. For wcelr court games in a decade. , nearly three-quarters of the game * * * the Betas made a great fight of it. \Shadow\ Died1·ich and Mr. They were tied, 9-9 at the half, but Dog challenge anyone on the gradually fell behind in the last campus to dispossess them of ~ two periods. Reilly of the beaten the mythical college bridge quint took scoring honors with 12 championship which they have . points. Bruce Burns led the Phi been claiming. Holders also of Gams with nine. Summaries: the Skidmore title, the Died- !Cappa Sigma- G F rich-Dog combination is in Bartholomew, rf . . . . . 4 1 training for a crack at the Greiner, If . . . . . . . . . . . 0 2 Smith title and holds no fear Guerry, c . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 2 for any Union card sharlis, Sawyer, rg . . . . . . . . . . 2 0 barring none, not even the Bunker, Jg . . . . . . . . . . . 2 1 fParsom«.> faculty. Totals ........ , .... 10 6 * * Delta Chi- G F Dick Conly, cross-countryman of J.ones, rf ........ , . . . . 2 2 running .backwards fame on the Coppola, J.f •...•. , . • • • 2 0 1939 varEity, visited his brother Adamzevich, c . . . . . . . . 0 0 Alpha Delts here last week-end. Hallenbeck, rg .. , . . . . 3 1 He hopes to be back in school next Thompson, rg ... , . . . . o 0 fall, which should ·be a big .help to Heywood, lg . . . . . . . . . 0 1 Bill Ketz, whose captain-elect, Neubauer, lg ... , . . . . o o Paul Quinn, ~as }ef; school. Totals ......... , . . . . 7 4 Nels Nitchman is hying to promote a scrap between his freshman and varsity basltet- ball teams for next week, prob- ably Saturday. Only the sen- iors, Rathlev, Turchiclt and Bartlett, will not play. Stu- d('nts will b(' w«.>lcom«.>. Looks lilie a natural! .. * Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUr< MOTTO 11 Quality - Service Satisfaction•• • 598 B'way - For Better Values .. • Phi Gamma Delta- Champlin, rf ... . ...... England, If . ..... ..... Davis, c .............. Mackenzie, rg • 0 •••••• Burns, rg . . ... . . ..... Tiedeman, lg ......... Totals ••• 0 •••••••••• Beta Theta Pi- Reilly, rf ............. Galuszka, If .......... Quigley, If ........... Killian, c ............ Billick, rg ............ Forrest, lg ........... Totals .............. G F 2 3 1 1 2 1 0 1 4 1 0 0 9 6 G F 6 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 0 0 1 9 7 p 7 3 5 1 9 0 25 p 12 0 0 2 4 1 25 Vars!ty FG 31 33 31 21 17 17 6 Freshman Harvey ...... , .... . Clowe ............ . Mensel . , ......... . Smolka . , ......... . Peer ......... , .... . DeWeese .... , .... . FG 14 15 8 3 3 2 Hill ............... 1 Kayne ............ . Dandareau ....... . Gresham ........ , . Allen ............. . Tab 2 1 1 0 F 30 9 8 11 12 7 3 F 10 4 5 1 1 3 3 0 0 0 0 T 92 75 70 53 46 41 15 T 38 34 21 7 7 7 5 4 2 2 01 Basketball Numerals Awarded Fourteen Freshman basketball numerals have been awarded to 11 players and three managers. The yearlings won two games and lost three, in- cluding a practice tilt with the alumni. Garnet 1944's will go to Ed Al- len, Johnny Clowe, Vic Peer, Bob Smolka, John Gresham, Doug De- Weese, Warren Harvey, Bill Hill, Harvey Kayne, Seymour Meisel and Cornelius Dandareau. Freshman Managers Martin Caplan, J. Nor- ris and Manager-Elect Bob Cum- ming will also get numerals. F 0 R Arrow Shirts Wide- spread Long.point Style Begins with the Collar Arrow collars on Arrow shirts are styled with a touch of genius. Enhanced by neat pat- terns, their precision fit and soft drape make them campus classics. Come in and see us today for the smartest, newest shirts for col- lege men. $2. All Arrows are Sanforized- Shrunk with fabric shrinkage less than 1%. Boomed Mermen, Fencers Interclass Basketball Interclass basketball conte:\ts start Monday night and continue through Wedne~day. Class cap- tains follow: Ed Bartlett, '41; Bob Panoff, '42, Bill Wilkin, '43, and John Clowe, '44. The schedule follows: Monday- Freshmen vs. Seniors, 7:30 p.m.; Juniors vs. Sophomore~. 8:30 p.m.; Tomorrow Union's only other vardty team in action this week-end will be the va1 sity fencing unit, which moves un to Clinton to face Hamilton's dangerous swordsmen. Among the Continental~' victnms this Feason are the Dmtmouth Indians. Last year Hamilton licked N.Y.U. Coach l\'Iert 'Zubres has listed the following men for competition: Foil-Bob He1·man, Art DeLorenzo, Del Goldberg, and Fran Jankow- eki; Epee -Bill Mom e and Captain \;\,Tarren Kimmey; Sabre~-Herman and Bill Birdsall. GET YOUR HAIR CUT The Remodelled SANITARY BARBER SHOP Next to the Union Inn \ JAMES RESTAURANT 426 STATE STREET We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests How to rate an \A\ in campus Wear Arrow Shirts HANDS across the table may be the extent of your finesse with the femmes ... or maybe you're the wolf type who steals your roommate's best girl five seconds after you've met her. Regardless of your line, you'll need some smooth Arrow Shirts to bolster up your cause. Neat crisp patterns in all the latest authentic collar models are yours for the small sum of two rocks. An Arrow's trim Mitoga fit plus the incomparable Arrow collar will pull compliments without fishing. ARROff/ SHIRTS

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1941 Sophomore Dance Tickets On Sale Muther Named Director Of Next Freshman CamJ SKIDMORE CHOIR HERE SUNDAY Jacobs, Engineer For G. E. T elevisior~ Bid Salesmen Selected; Decorations to Center Upon Fraternity Flags Tickets for the Sophomore Dance, to be held March 15, were placed on salE' t.:J the student body today, til'i~:et chairman Emile Btu- net announced. The ticl;:ets, which will be 8old for $1.10, can be ob- tained f1·om !rate I nity, dormitot·~·. and neutral rep! esentatives, and at the C'ullegl' Book~tore. The fraternity representative:; in- clude Lyall Dean, Georg-e Weed, Paul Santee, Frank England. Frank Jones. Emile Brunet. Earl Goodrich, Charles Thm·ston, Nor- man Fox, Aaron Thai, KE>nneth Lynge, Charles Wilson, Harold Messenger, Henry \Vysocki. Roger Allen. George Loomis. Ft ank Sala- mone, and Robert Nemeroff. Robert W. Muthei, Jr., '42, was chosen student director of the Freshman Camp, at Pilot Knob, on Lake George by the Fresh- man Camp Committee, headed by Professor Wilford H. Ketz, faculty dil ector of the camp on Tuesday. Muther p1 epared for college a.t Newton High School in Newton, Mass. He won his numerals in fl ,•:-<hman trari{ and his letter for varsity trac!L Last year he was a member of the sophomore dance committee and at present is on the student council. Library Receives Gift of Books { Contmued from Page 2) \Remember he said, \you always have good music, and then the re- sponsibility of keeping the .program going .prevents your being very bored. Occasionally, too, when we put on recorded music programs, as we did for a while last month, we make the station breaks at the transmitter\. Station breaks are what goes on in the .now legendary \pause for station identification\ if went on, \they r-eally keep you on you're interested. \Speaking of station breaks,\ he · your toes. When we re-broadcast New York FM programs, we have to make a station break eve1y fif- ten minutes.\ Gordon gave us a .sample of a television program station break, to wit: \This is station W2XB, the General Electric Company's televi- sion station in Schenectady. This is a special television broadcast made by the authot·ity of the FeC:eral Communications ·Commission\. Working for a Year Representing thE' dormitories are Richard WatanabE'. Robert Ri~hQp. and WiHiam ShariH'Y· Neutral rep- re~entntivP~ are John ;\1ann and Robert GmundwatE'r. The Skidmore choir will appear at the regular Sunday morning Chapel services under the direc- tion of Mr. Ehner M. Hintz. The sermon will be pveached by the Rr>\'. Phillips Pacliet· Elliott of the First Pl!esbyterian Church. The job is lots of fun, Gordon -in- timated, but added, \I did want to go out for cross-countiy, though. I ;;tarted to, early this year, but just Facult~ l'atruns Invitation chairman Lyall Dean announced that Dr. and !.\1rs. Dixon Ryan Fox, Dean and Mrs. Charle~ F. F. Gari:. Mr. and Mr.s. F1ederic A. \Vyatt, Profe.ssor and Mrs. Wil- ford H. Ketz, ProfE>s~or and Mrs. Benjamin \Vhitaker, Dr. and Mrs C. EugenP SundPrlin, and Dt·. and !.\1t·s. Gordon R. Silber have been asked to be patrons and patronesse:; of the dance. James Purdy. chairman of dec- orations. re\'ealed that the decot·a- tion~ will be CE'ntered upon Union's ft·aternities. Purdy ~aid that all fraternitiE's posse~sing flags haw' cooperated in lending thPm to the Class of 1943 for u<e in canying out the decorative theme. Dance Chairman Kenneth Sharpe will communicate with s·unounding colleges for the purpose of obtain- ing latE' permission for the evening of the dance. Sharpe expressed the opinion that bt>cause of the otrong suppm·t displayed by the Sopho- more Class as well as by the other c!as~es, the dance will be a suc- cess. Several of the fraternities have plans fol' a <'mall informal weei{-end. sine!' other functions in addition to the Sophomore Dane!' are <C heduled. Seven Courtmen Get Block 'U's? 1 Continued from Page 3 l turned to the ·campus to beat the freshmen. The fastest. ·best-condi- tioned man on the floor was Ralp·h Semerad. Baseball hasn't been Cniun·s stron!: s-port very often. One of the rare powerful nines was the 1934 club, which lost but two of its 11 games. Semerad playf'd in thP out- field on this team and ca·ptained the 1935 nme which won six and lost two. Lieutenant Colonel A. R. Baird and wifE' were friendly with Mr. and .Mr·s. Charles Me!'ser Stow, who in turn are very ·well acquainted with President and Mrs. Fox. 0 ·~ SCD Plans Broadcast Of March Conference Strange Boulder In Hale House On New Signifigance Oourt Takes At first glance it appears to be • --·---- just ordi?ary rock, and the?- you: kin's garden or the court behind wonder JUst, exactl_r how 11 . got Hale House. Consequently a col- there. If you r~ curtous you .might ; lege truck was _,ent to pick it up go ove1 a.n~ .take a. look at It: but; and the 2 , 685 pound \ornament\ those .ummttated m t?e science was deposited in the close. shroudmg boulders wtll merely I • . ehrug their shoulders and move on. I Accordmg to !\rofessor Smtth However if they really look close- the boulder was ptcked up at Lake ly they 'may find that there are Champlain by a gl<~;cial sheet 25,000 some very peculiar marltings on I years ago and earned down to the this seemingly misplaced stone. vicinity of Rexford .. '\l'h.ere . ~re The stone may be found in Hale ~ew .. such spec1mens m this vtcm- 1 House Close <which is that portion Ity, he added. of the campus to the rear of South In ex p I a i n i n g t h e strange College surrounded by a brick scratches on the stone, which is • 1 Continued fr.om Page 1! i wall, the rock my be seen from the classed as li:nestone, Pl'ofesEor with South AmPnca. A senes of 1 walk going into Hale Housel, Smith said that they we~e caused programs, to b_e. ~road cast over the I where it was placed last Epring by smaller stones rubbing against ,;hoi t-wa~e factl~ties ~f the. Schenec- after it was discovered. it, both when it was part of a tady radiO. sta~10ns IS bemg plan- The bluish-grey boulder was I larger r.:>ck formation and in its mi- ~ed, and ~:. Will be conducted by j kicked up by Professor Smith on; gration via the glacier to this dis- ~outh :\-mett':'an students at R. P. I a geology field trip last spr·ing near trict. m then· .nattve tonguE's. Arrange- I Clifton Park. According to the pro- 1 ::;;;;;;:;;:;;;;;;;;;::;:=;;;;;:~ ments w~ll be made through the I fessor the rock is approximately ii news b~I eaus of th.e school~ con- 25,000 years old. The scratches ~Prned m the extensiOn of this pro- were caused by it 8 experience with gram. to contact the home-tOWI_lS a glacial sheet. After a consulta- ~nd school~ of the students m tion with .Mrs. Fox, it was decided I ::;outh Amenca. that. besides being of value to Ge- I Unquestionably Favored! The Russell Sage representatives ology students, it might also be ani outlined briefly the work to date attractive decoration to Mrs. Per-' M thf'it s~hool in connection with -- ! the aims of the Student Committee ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM for Democracy. Forums. chapel mPetings, faculty sales, bridge par- tie,;, informal discussions and mass meetings have bE'en conducted on ''at ious phases of the committee and school wm·k. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper. One Step frorr State Streei BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 ~-------~ _~ ~~-~~~. ·~~=-~=- .. =-=~ =::__~= _= _=_ =_;:;::~-- ----- UP TO DATE STYLES $4.85 up Collegiate Fit PATTON & HALL 245 State St. DELIVERIES AND SHOE REPAIR SERVICE FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF OUR CUSTOI\IERS GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Cor. Barrett Simply Phone 6-9419 WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY CO. Smce graduatmg, SemPrad has continued his athl<>tic conquestg. In Schenectady he p!ayed with the All- Schenectady and Hednck baseball teams for many seasons befmp and after graduation. He received trials with Albany and :--Jewark of th!' In-~ ternational league and. though he was not able to accept them, -he was invited to go south with the Al'bany Baseball club sevet al times 1 ::==============~ Fur tlw past three seasons he has, r played the outfield for the Cohoes· COR. STATE and CENTER STS. State league nine. Semer·ad graduatPd ftom Harvard Law school in 1938. While there he played with a group of students. all ex-college stars. in a Boston semi- pro basketball leah U!'. This quintet won its league championship and a · majol'ity of itG <'Xhibition games. \Dinty\ !.\1om e, Stanford University, court captain of two years before. , was this team's high-scot<•r. Last year Semerad was captain and manager of the Cohoes team in the Eastern New York State Basketball league. Bellevue (j)uality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-62-!8 Bl{.EAD - ROI.IA\> • PASTRY Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3 121 General Ice Cream Corp. BEFORE THE DANCE CHECK THE CAR Fill Up With at W.H.RICE Cor. UNION and JAY It's a wonderful world with A Wonderful Date A Freshman Dance and then Tony's Union Inn • \Where Union Men Have Come for Years\ Rojansky's Contraterrene To Be Released To Press couldn't make it.\ ''I've been working for the Gen- eral Electric Company since last Science Service, the leading syn-; February,\ he went on. \Last year, dicate in this field, has notified the right after I got my license, I was Union College News Bureau that\ on a 3Q hour week, but I've been it has released to the nation's news-' on my present schedule since Sep- papers a feature story on the im-, tember.\ plications of Dr. Vladimir Rojan-' Pressed to tell more about this ~ky's \contraterrene\ matter that' license, Gordon vouchsafed the in- he described recently in the formation that, in his opinion, the Astrophysical Journa-l. It is a five-' examination required was \doggone column article, illustrated with: tough\. \I couldn't have ·passed it fcmr pictures, including an infor-· without the aid of Dr. Haefner\ he mal picture of Professor Rojansky' said. by Mr. Enzer. This story, describing· And the .future? Go1 don has the \imide out\ atoms which dis-i saved enough money for one year ap:.ear with violent explosion upon at M. I. T. and hopes to save more meeting earthly atoms, is sched-: later. There he'll study for a doc- uled for release in newspapers tor's degree and· then go into re- published during week beginning search work. \Then I'll be happy,\ March 3. he said. FRED WARING composer of over 50 college hit songs-in \Pleasure Trme\ • FOR UNION MON., TIJES., WED., THURS., FRI. at 1 P.M. N •• B. C. Stations GLENN MILLER America's No. 1 Dance Band Leader in 11 Moonlight Serenade 11 • FOR UNION TUES., WED., THURS. at 10 P.M. C. B. S. Stations z_ Vo Ei 84 In E tici Ae1 pl'O thil cia~ tra a hE gra Pre Co- fm ing to the tha to tel( F cee the pre tha ing ce): sen are tin liaJ AlE det Do to as fly• eel thE ~a I Un fo1 th~ qu wh SC1 set pe1 fly thf fo1 re' tht in, tiu an .SOl ral fot fut be if ve Co ta' ed isl Yc Ct H1 te1 AE \b ch It th fe in sil ar In th B: ar a\ of in in p VE si ty cs of pc er in w si a!

