and rom of the usic to nny urn- the ex- the has the the nce. at l uf At by he the 200 les,; Jm- the to at- and bert and ulty om- ing, to dif- m rsa- rob- a a in. nci- Returning Alumni There is 0ne characteristi·c which most of the large number of alumni. of recent ·Classes who are returning to the campus ·for brief visits have Z-511 Vol. LXIV., No. 45 • StS - -~----------~-=== PRICE FIVE CENTS -----=----_:::__::...:\~-- UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1941 .--·-~~-- _- _____ -:-- ·in cemmon. They are all entering thearmy. Gl One of them was our friend ' e e George Peck, '40, former sports edi- Club Dance ! Prom Com mit tee Plans For J/ery Busy J.J:\eekend Eleven Top Ranking Senio.rs Selected for Stage Positions tor of the Cone or dy, who was on M campus yesterday. To enter the .· . a y· . army .kpri! 16, George volunteered· ~ Cost But $.30 Junior Prom weekend plans, released this mor·mng by the prom committee, pointed to a 'bang-up' weekend for students anct their guests attending the cla~s of '42 prom. When he discovered that his low draft number made it difficult to retain his advertising job until he had completed his year of army training. A philosopher or a psychologist might make something of the ap- .parently grea:t desire of these men to return to their fraternity house or friends before their induction into the a1my. We think the an- swers are far more simple-they want to bid their friends good-bye and have a slight fling in the fash- ion of \old .ti·mes\ .before entering upon a new experie:nce of their lives. Successful Vacation Robert Stanley has, and Theodore McHwaine will leave gaps in the college scene that will be d-ifficult to fill until their return to the fold. \Bob\ Stanley has done yeoman duty doubling as instructor in engi- neer·ing and as assistant proctor of North College, with Defense Train- ing Course work and \advice to the campus on music 'both recorded and presented in person\ on the side. \Ted\ Mci!waine's work as As- sistant Comptroller, while necessar- ily not so much in the eye of the campus, has merited its approba- tion nonetheless. To b:Jth, our wishes for a \suc- cessful vacation.\ Wise Move We thought it a wise move to transfer the time of the Goodrich- Duane prize debate from Com- .nencement to a time before Prize Day. A valuable prize, for a long time it has been one of the most ,nconspicuous, due, among othe·r ;·easons, to. the fact that its compe- _ition took place after many stu- dents had left the campus for the ~ummer. This situation was particularly unfortunate since the shift of the past few years from formal debate, ,vhich placed a premium on ora- tory, to round-ta,ble ciscussion liich made factual knowledge the ;riel asset and thus opened the .ompetition to a wider number of .J~udents. The Goodrich-Duane prize pre- ~ents a splendid opportunity for men who are able to present factual inf01·mation concisely to compete for two sizeable prizes. The new date should make for many partici- pants. Beginning? Campus radio networks ·have been tried with varying degrees of success on several campuses of the country within the past few years. The movement which is growing through the e.fforts of such groups as the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System with which the Radio \Vor·kshop is affiliated, is a new one, and it is interesting to consider how effective a system of this na- ture would prove on the Union campus. The experimental hook-up that Don Elt.!red and Harold Britten of the Radio Club ·put up between the Electrical Engineering Building and North College may provide some of the answers to this ques- tion. We intend to watch with in- terest the tests of this small hook- up which are scheduled to begin next week. A campus radio network, if prop- erly conceived and Ceveloped, might mean a great deal to Union. Because of a Bug Floor One, Oldgym Hall. is taldng its enforced idleness in good spirits With gar den chairs and tennis racquets to amuee them in the daylight hours, and floodlight ef- fects to make clear the \Oldgym Country Club\ sign in the evening, the boys are starting well. Seasoned quarantine campaigners ten us that the exposed position of O!dgym in the center of the cam- pus make the enjoyment of some ·of the quarantine sports difficult for the dorm boys, but other amuse- ments will undoubtedly present themselves. The only blot in the picture is a possible scarlet-fever bug, but ap- parently no one is paying much at- tention to it. We are sure that we are phrasing the comment of the campus when we wish the boys good luck in their hour of stress. ·•· Low-cost Plan Approval • - -- To Be Asked of Council I M l k f • I Wiring Erected ·1 For Cam.pus Radio Valedictory and Pr.ize Speakers to Be Named By Faculty Commi-ttee By Glee Club Officials · OnaW . eSbVa On Fri<.iay even;ng a Metro- politan Opera singer will give a pn-.prom concert from 8:30 to 10 p.m. Each student will re- At the next meeting of the In- terfraternity Council a new low cost plan will be submitted by the co-chairmen of the Skidmore-Union Glee Club Concert and Dance. The dance, under this novel arra:nge- rnent, would cost each student about thirty cents, and the concert would be given them free. Each fraternity will be asked to contribute $6 and neutral group $15 to pay for the cost of the dance. In return all students, members of contributing bodies, will be eligible to attend. Tickets will not be sold at the door. The money to be collected from neutral gr·oups will be split among dorms and town men. Total cost to each man will be about thirty cents, Kenneth Mackenzie, co - chairman. estimated. \The dance is one of the biggest bargains ever offered,\ he said. Larry Audette and his orchestra have been signed to provide the music for the a.ffair, Mackenzie an- nounced. Audette played for the freshman dance and students who attended claimed that his band wa.s among the best to play at any small dance on tile campus in many years. His music was called \very danceable\ and far above the aver- age of local bands. Optional Dress Dress wiU be optional, though the Slddmore and Union organiza- tions will be formal. \It would be nice if a large number of those who could, did come formal,\ Mackenzie oaid. Formally dressed couples would not in any way be out of place at the affair but would rather add to the concert which is the cli- max of the Glee Club's seaFon. Dates will be arranged for stu- dents wishing to take members of the Skidmore chorus to the dance by Mackenzie. He urged all stu- dents interested to get in touch with him at the Phi Gamma Delta house as soon as possible. Half of the program for the con- cert will be given by each organiza tion with the two groups joining in the preoentation of two numbers. This is in line with t·he procedure at the annual joint concert. Mackenzie explained the low cost plan when he said that the Glee Club did not wish to make money from the student body and that the concert and dance was being given at cost. The organization feels that they can brealt even only by collect- ing $6 from each fraternity and $15 from neutral groups. The club expects a good turnout. Macken- zie said, for .it has given the stu- dent body the chance to attend a low cost dance with an unusually attractive concert as something extra. --~· -o--- SCD to Hold Conference Here April 25, 26, 27 The Student Committee for De- mocracy conference, \Colleges in Defense of Democracy,\ which will be held on the campus April 25. 26, and 27, will feature student round-tables on various phases of current national and international problems, it was said today by a representative of the Committee. Among the spealters who will act as advisory experts for the round- tables will be Arthur Sweetser, former member of the Secretariat of the League of Nations, and now with the Institute of Advanced studies at Princeton University; Dr. David Rowe, lecturer on Far Eastern relation~ at Princeton Uni- ver~ity; and Dr. William Agar, lec- turer at Columbia University and an editor of \The Commonweal.\ Raymond Daniell, chief London correspondent of the New York Times, will be the main speaker at the Saturday evening dinner of the conference, which will precede the group's attendance at the Union-Skidmore concert-dance, Dr. Enrique de Lozada, former Bo- livian diplomat and now a member of the Department of Political Science at Williams College, will be present at one of the Sunday functions of the conference. Cancelled For '41 Defense Needs Forces College to Postpone Yearly Summer Event In an announcement made jointly by Dr. Fox and Charles Coburn. stage and sc!'een acto1· anu director of . the sum·mer theatre, during sprmg r·eces:;, il was stated that be- cause of the uncertainty of \war preparations\ it would be necessar;y to drop the Mohawk Drama Festi- val this season. The final decision was not made until now be~ause of the uncertain- ty of war preparations. Numerous discussions were held during the ra.l and winter, but no definite de- cision was made during any of ceive two tickets. Following the cancer t will come the prom dance in the gym. Saturday'> plans include attend- ance at spring sports when Union plays tennis with Brooklyn Poly and lacroEse with R.P.I.. tea. or dinner dances, and a special prom performance o; \1 hree Men on a Horse\ by the Mountebanks. Sunday morning the Rev. Carl Reiland will preach the service, and in the afternoon Dr. Tid- marsh will present a special or- gan r·ecital. Maurice Evans, noted actor. will give a serieE of his Shakespearean characterizations in the chapel at 7:30 p. m. Tickets for the Prom, coE-ting $6.60, go on sale Tuesday. This includes a 50 cent Defense Tax. those conferences. Mr. Coburn ·flew ·---------------- to New York from Hollywood three weeks ago to confer with Dr. Fox rega1·ding the feasibility of conduct- mg the festival this :1- ear. Mr. Co- burn at the same time was p1 e- pared to investigate possibilities of making plans for this season but since this decision has been r~ach­ ec. all plans were dropped. He also announced that he would go ahead with plans for the summer of 1942 He has since re.urned to Hollywood where ·he will make several pic- tures. rhis wili be the iilst sum- mer· that he has rr.ade pictures. .ioint Statement Dr. Fox and Mr. Coburn issued the following formal statement ··war p~eparation entails many un~ certamt1es, and in no place more than in colleges. The uncertainty as to whether the national govern- ment will lequire the setvice of Union College in carrying on the educational preparation of engi- neei'S, chemists, and physicists to meet emergency neecs has inevit- ably postponed the plans of the Mohawli Drarr.a Festival beyond the point of safety for the season of 1941. ·The festival has to bow to these ~ir~umstances and now goes for- ward in plans for 1942. \The vita;ity and stabiJ.ity for the Jutm.e is in no way challenged or 1mpa1~ ed by this temporary and . ocal Impact of t11e national emer- gency.\ Dr. Fox and Mr. Coburn'E state- ment scotched rumors that the Mohawk Drama Festival would not be conducted this year because oi the failure to find finacial backing. Students, who claimed to be in the know. had Eaid that the Festival's poor showing last rear had scared financial bacl{ers away. Last sea- son was the first time eince its in- ception that the Drama Festival had lost money. Bad weather was blamed. Poling to Conduct Service Tonight Dutch Reformed Pastor To Replace Houghton; Potter Preaches Sunday The Rev. Clark V. Poling of the Dutch Reformed Church will con- duct the Good Friday communion service in the Memorial Chapel at 8 p. m. tonight. Rev. Herber·t R. Houghton Jr, co:Iege chaplain, who conducted the service last year and who would ordinarily take charge uf tonight's service, is quarantined m Oldgym dormitory of which he Is proctor. Francis P. Coward, II, '42, general chair·man, said today that towns- people as well as students are in- vited to attend t.he service which is sponsored by the Christian Associa- tion. The service terminates a five week series of Friday evening len- ten worship services in the chancel of chapel under the general chair- manship of Edward P. Flieg!e, '42. Mrs. May Hanbridge Moon is in charge of the elements for the com\ munion service. John Gulnac, '43, and Kenneth Mackenzie '41 will assist Rev. Poling at the s~rvice . Dean Rockwell Harmon Potter of the Hartford Theological Semin- ary will preach the Easter Sunda} sermon in the Memorial Chapel at 11 a. m. A graduate of Union in the class of 1895 ;'Lnd of Yale Divin- ity School, Dean Potter is the au- thor of many religious books and president of the American Board of Commissioner!' for Foreign Mis- sions since 1925. A graduate of Mt. Holyoke College, Dean Potter is also a member of Chi Psi Frater- nity, --·-----·------------ Cast Is Selected For Mountebanks Production 'Three Men On A Horse' The return of the Mountebanks •·----~--­ from a very successful tour of \The Inspector General,\ marked the be- ginning of rehearsals of the forth- coming play\ Three Men on a Horse.\ Mount Vernon, N. Y., production manager; Sta.niey Green, New Yorlt City, stage manager; Wallace Mor·- gan '44, proper~y manager and Gor- don A. Rust, faculty advisor to the The play, which enjoyed an un- group. Experimental Network Being Built Between W2GSB, N. College An experimental transmission line for the proposed campus radio network ha.s been set up between the Electrical Eng-ineering building and North College, Donald Eldred, 42, pt·esident of the Radio Club, an- nounced this morning. Most of the work was completed during the spt ing vacation, and it is expected that test broadcasting will begin next weelt, Eldred said. The Radio Club and Radio Workshop are working together in establishing the network on the campus. At the same time the executive committee of the Radio Workshop announced that a third series of 15-minute, weekly broadcasts had been inaugurated over WGEO and tha.t the first pr·ogram in a weekly senes of half-hour broadcasts was being prepared for Thursday. April 17. Gordon Semerad, '42, is •present- ing the fifteen minute program ''About Baseball\ while the half~ hour show, an informal disr.ussion of book~, will be offered by a group of English majot s. IBS Supplies Funds The transmission line, Eldred ex- p~n~. ~s ben s~ ~ iliroqh the use of funds supplied by David Borst, Technical Director of the Intercollegiate Broadcasting Sys- tem Borst, in a statement to the Concordiensis. said that this line will be used for IBS experiments on a new type of transmission sys- tem, as well as for its primary pur- pose, the testing of campus net- work possibilities on the Union campus. Borst also announced t'lat the IBS is having built the first of a number of amplifying units, .which will be tested on the Union campus. If successful. these units may be in- stalled in each building which houses receiving sets. Whether the \radio frequency\ or \audio fre- quency\ methods of transmission are found preferable, these units w-ill insure better reception and prevent reception off the campus, which is contrary to the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission. Experimt>ntal l'urpose Outlined The lines were bmlt by Eldred and Harold Britten, '42. The Radio Club will use its broadoasting equipment for the tests. The test- ing broadcasts will also enable the members of the Radio Club to de- termine the extent of radiation f.rom the lines. On Tuesday evening at the WGY studios the Radio Workshop will conduct tryouts for their next half- hour production, \Prophet Without Honor.\ This ecript deals w-ith the life of Thomas Paine, author of \Common Sense\ and patriot of the Revolution. The program will be presented over Station W2XOY in the near future. The program will be under the direetion of John Sheehan. '25, manager of the Fre- quency Modulation Station W2XOY. ----0---- T uition, Dormitory Installments Due usually long run on Broadway and Erwin Trowbridge, the verse which was recently made into a writer '[] b 1 The third installment of Tut'tr'on Eleven seniors have been award- ed. stage appointments for the 146th annual commencement exer- cises of Union College on June 9, it was announced today by Dean Charles F. F. Garis. Students of ex- ceptional standing in schola-rship, usual·ly ten in number, are eligible for selection by the faculty for this honor at graduation. Those honored and their major fields of study are: Cecil Earl Angell of Ilion, electrical engineer- ing; Charles John Breusch, Jr., of Albany, division of literature; Henry Lawrence Crosby, J.r., of West Hartford, Conn., civi·l engi- neering; Albert Arthur Davis III, of Roche~ter, social studies di vi- sion; Richard Charles Griffin of Schenectady, electrical eng·ineer- ing; Robert Samuel Herman of Newburgh, social studies; John Prior Lewis of Hudson Falls, so- cial stud·ies; John Adams Ruskow- ski of Schenectady, social studies; Lloyd McKinley Schloop of Sche- nectady, social Etudies; Laskar Schwartz of Crompond, division of literature; and David Valentine Tiedeman of Elsemere, social studies. In accordance with the usual custom, one of these students will be named valedictorian, and a fac- ulty committee will select in addi- tion three other members from this group to. speak in the Blatchford Oratorical Contest during the Com- mencement exercises. The winner is awarded a $50 medal. Stage Appointees Angell, an associate member of Sigma Xi, national honorary societ) for the promotion of scientific re- search, is president of the senior class, and member of the Student Council, and of Terrace Council senior honorary society. ' Crosby is an associate member of Sigma Xi, was editor of the \Gar- net\ yearboolt, chairman of the student tax committee, and man- ager of cross country. Davis was editor of the Freshman Record, circulation manager of the Idol. quarterly magazine, and won his letter in varsity swimming. Griffin 'is an associate member of Sigma Xi. Herman is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Eerved on the Interfrater- nity. Coun,cil, and is on the varsity fencmg team. He is the sabres and foils champion of the college. Lewis represented Union College ~t St. Andr·ews University, Scotland, m 1939-40; is managing editor of Idol quarterly, and was associate editor of \The Concordiensis\· won his atia letter in varsity track, won the Oppenheim prize for out- standing scholarship; and is in the Glee Club. Ruskowski is president of Inter- nationa~ Relations Club, manager of varsrty debate, and is a mem- ber of Phi Beta Kappa. Schwartz is business manager of \The Concordiensis,\ co-founder llf the Student Committee for Democ- racy, is in the College Choir and Glee Club, was on the executive committee of Junior Prom, and is a member of the College News Bu- r·eau staff. Tiedeman is a member of Phi Beta .Kappa, Sigma Xi, and head of Phr Gamma Delta. ---0---- Easter Organ Recital Easter music will feature the Sunday organ recital in Memorial Chapel. motion picture, is the story of a ' wr e P ayed by Stanley timid verse writer who has an un- GS reen, '43, with Sylvia Sunderlin, of· and the balance of Dormitory rent chenectady, playing his wife, Au- and Dining Service are due and I canny a.bility for conectly picliing drey. The three gam,blet·s, Charlr'e, ohould be paid T d A 'I Hosanna w the winners of horse races. As a F - . on ues ay, pn · · · · · · · · achs rankie and Patsy w1'l! b 1 d 15. B1lls have been del1'vered for· II result of his intuition, he falls into ' e P aye th h d f respectively by Marvin Epstein '43 dormitory rent and dining service Allelujah .................... Bach e · an s o three gamblers who Ha·rold Zulauf, '44, and Robe;t s. but no bills will be issued for In- Now Let Every Tongue Adore take advantage of his unusual SchulbeJ·g, - 41 . stallment t 't' All t d Thee \gift.\ m ron. s u ents hav- - ................. _. Bach Other roles include the tailor, ing payments due are requested to In Joseph's Lovely Garden, Mr. Harrison, well known profes-· played by Bakal; Clarence Do.bbins make such payments at the Comp- arr. by Dickinson sional director who was director at played 'by Alexander Maxwell, . 44 ; troller's Office on the above date. Ye Watchers and Ye Holy Ones, the Mohawk Drama Festival, held Harry, played by Howard Parsons· Any payment made after April Tract. 17th Cent. a three hour rehearsal Wednesday '44, Mable, played by Mary York'; 15 is subject to the usual late pay- Cihioiir evening. The farce. written by John and Mr. Carver, played 'by Warren ment charge .of $2.00. Cecil Holm and George Abbott, will Kimmey, '41. Fantasy on Easter Kyries, b The Comptroller's Office will be arr. by Harvey Gaul e presented at the Mountebanks The minor roles include: Moses, a th at M 2 3 d 5 M H I d open for the collection of fees on Ea~ter Mornimr on Mt. Roubr'doux · e er ay , , an . r. ar- co ore elevatot· boy, played by Rob- Tueeday, April 15: ~ • r·ison will remain on the campus ert Kempf, '43; Messenger. Wallace . Gaul until the play is p1esented and will Morgan, '44; Maid, Betty List; From 9:00 A.M. to 12:30 P.M., and Allelma on a Gregorian Chant be assisted by Abraham Bakal, of and Gloria, Patlicia Van Cleve. · F 1 00 p M t Tourne'mire rom : .• o 4:45 P.M. Hosanna .............. , ... Dubois ,. '

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSI.S, FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1941 .--------------·1 W-unrnr FNL' !\!lEU 18 i7 \./ Causa Ptrsa Parol<' :lssai'' Member of the Associated Collegiate l're:;s arHl tli;,u.ibutor uf the-CO~ legiute lJ1t;est. . --· The official new~Imper of the student~ of Lii>lou College. l''ubllshed Tues· day aud Fridays throughout the culle,:;e )..:.\.::\7-1'.'-;,-----,.,------, Editorial Itoom:;, Sillilllun Hall, liniuu \...'ollcgc Ca!upus. T~lt:~houe, Schtmectady, 4·0133. PnbliNLtiun Office, '=T~Il-e___,G-a-ze_t_t-e'\\Preo,, 331 :>tate Bt., Schenectady, N. Y .. Teleplwne 4·1141 .. -- ·--· E'i'i\iereU. at th~ ~cht!-iiCCGd~:-yJ .... ~t Ut:fin= a::; ~t:l'Olld Class ~la1·l :\lattt·r Subscrf.ptioii!Jfiee Five l't>Hlti a ... .-upJ•; $J.UU a. jt:ar; th:llvt>rcd al-,~·\\la.·r~ In the t.:mted State~. :Seniol' Boat•d Armand V. .Feigenbaum ........................... Editor-in-Chief h\ppa :'\ u lluu:;e-1-1331 Laskar Schwartz ............................... Business Manager Ka!IJ•ct :'\u llnu~t·- l-i::l31 Solomon Blechman .............................. Managing Editor J :Hlddlt: :-;t'\.:tlUII, .\,,,l'lh L'ulll·gL· Li-~~Liti Samuel Portnoy .................................. Associate Editor 1\.:qq.a :\u ll•·u:::-t_- -t-iOJl Jonathan I'earson .................................. Sports Editor Sig·ma l'hi l'lat·<·· ~-ti~~l J. Donald Haigh ............................. Circulation Manager Robert Hayner l'lli ]l~:._·lt:J. T'htt.l lluu:.;L~ 1-1:.!14 Junior Board Thomas O'Connor· Granger Tripp Sophomore Board Harvey Fishbone Thomas Cullen, William Hart, Albert Knmicl{, Edward Johnson, Arthur Pastore, Seymour Thickman ---------::::---:----:::::-:--:-:---- ------- Business Staff Justin Perlstein Joseph Jaycox Stamey Greenstein Melville Messenger David Rosenblum Issue t;ditoi' ... Thomas Cullen REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. Co/lege Publishers RePresentative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N, Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO ---------------- -- ------- .......... Harn·~ Fish hone As~>ista.nts Seymour Thickrnan Friday, April 11, 1941 At thur Pastore EXCELLENT IDEA The plan that lms been advanced by Co-chail·men .1.\lacken- zie and Hutchins for low-cost financing of the Glee Club con- ce1·t-d~nce can be one of the most effective ever proposed 011 the campus, if given the proper cooperation it deserves. In citing the fact that the cost of the affair to individmtls may be as low as thi1ty cents, with the concert without charge, Mackenzie put the situation well when he stated that \the dance can be one of the biggest bargains evet· offered here.\ Although the Glee Club dance is not being called an ''All- College\ dance, \Ve feel that it, more than any affair of recent years, deserves that title, should the proposed plan be ac- cepted. Fo1· the affai1· would be a real all-college affair in the fullest sense since the cooperation of every social ::md fraternal group in the college would be needed for its suc- cess. The fact that tickets would not be sold at the door would add ful'the1· to this picture. Anothet' l'eason fot· feeling that the affair can be one of the fmest small dances of l'nion, is that of the opportunity for optional d1·ess that it affords. The low price for the affair would permit wide flexibility. Those who wish to attend a formal concert and dance may do so, or ther may attend the same affair in informal dress-but both for thit·ty cents. If only as an expel'iment that is pointed in the right direc- tion for Union social functions, the proposed plan deserves support. But what is really being offered the campus is the finest opportunity in some .rears to attend a really low-cost affair of merit. We urge that the plan be accepted by the Interfraternity Council. ACHIEVEMENT We have always felt that one of the ultimates in achieve- ment of a career at Cnion is a Stage Appointment. A Stage Appointment represents, on the surface, recogni- tion of four yeat·s of superior work in scholarship. But, for the eleven men who have been so honored this year, it signi- fies more than that. It signifies days and nig-hts of work, sacrifice of oppol'tunity that was pleasant at the moment, unflagging devotion to the business of college, and a full awareness of responsibility. But whether in literature, or science, or engineering, or social studies these men demonstrated even more of char- acter. They demonstrated 1eadeeship by full participation in extra-classroom activity from serving on the college newspa- per and on the Student Tax Committee, to holding a part- time job. It is, therefore, with an awal'eness of what their achieve- ment means that we offer the congratulations of \The Con- cordiensis\ to Cecil Angell, Charles Bruesch, He my Crosby, A. Arthur Davis, Richard ·Griffin, Robert Herman, John Lewis, John Ruskowski, Lloyd Schloop, Laskar Schwartz, and David Tiedeman. OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES Thirty-three University of North Dakota engineering college seniors have completed mine rescue and first aid courses given by the United States bureau of mines.- <ACP) I The Play's The Thing Elsewhet·e in this i·ssue will be seduction in an old mill, child birth, tound the story of the casting by death .by lightning, mm der, a Cana- the M<mntebanks of their spring d'ian Mounted, a courtroom scet~e. productiOn \1 hree Men on a and it i.s latd in Nova Scotia. At dorse. · ~v e thmk they ve made a times, especially when Hot ace Mc- oig mistake in theii ,choice of a Nally teaches Helen Craig, a deaf- 1Jlay. mute, to read and write, the ·play is 1o start with this wiil be the glipping and more than mal{es up thin. comedy the Mounte·ban!{s W>il lor sevHal dull spots. Both give a nave lJUl on this :~-ear. \'l'he Roaa line performance, especia1ly M'iss w n.o.ue was a poor play and 0raig who acts through -het eyes u n1un audienct's did not ltl\e it. and by her motions is able to give LTo;;o> s .. 1·he 1nspector u-enet·at ·, a a ll'U•.Y inspil'ing interp·retation ot c~a;s,cal comeaJ was given a de- one to whom life comes late. She ugn.tt u1 production and satistiea IS a delight to watch. tne c.udege largely ·because ot the But we'te wandering from what dalr ror t:omedy possessed by some we wanted to say. If the Mounte- ur the cast and the work of Miss .banks ,does feel a corned} is essen- _amtHe Btaneska. tial for a spring production, why l::lut It is time lor some other sot·t ut play. A good mystet·J· 01 dr!l'ma :' wou1d be a we;eome relief fl'om ~o.uedies that don't go over ot· have to ,be rescued by ·we second ana thi·rd acts uecause the lit st \laid an :egg. \1·nree .Men on a Hot·se\ is a vulgar msigniucant play about un- Important little people and is not worth the time the Mountebanks vvil'l give it. not as ~ophisticated a production as \ .A:cquaintances\ now being played in New Y01 k by those two masteis of comedy, Jane Cowl and Peggy \v ood? '1'his actual pia~ wou1u not be suitable for the Mountebanks stage becaMse it has but two men. \Old Acquaintances,\ also worth a visit shows those 'little touches ot direction that make a play life•like. We hope that ;\llr. Hanison, who wiil ciirect \rhree Men on a Hoi'se ', wm ·be able to do as good a job as Auriol Lee did with the student actors. vv'e wish him luck! A lJ pica! example of a modern ·dtama tnat is well wotth a visit the next time you are in New 'York rs \Johnny beiinda.\ It has every · element ot drama; the mortgage, Dean Announces Scholarship List Seniors First With 80 As Freshmen Deadlock Sophomores at 50 All A total of 232 students achieved an index of 3.00 during .the third marking period according -to the list released yestm day by Dean Oharles F. F. Garis. The list in- cluded 80 seniors, 52 juniors, 50 sophomores, and 50 freshmen. DEAN'S LIST \Ranks in the first ten in the class for this marking period. OLA:SS OF 1941 Bachelor of Arts--Lloyd Barthol- umew, Paul W. Becker, Leland L. Beik, Richaid L. Brickley, Charles J. Bt·uesch, Jr., Albert S. Callan, Jt., Robert R. Callander, Ernest A. Cerasano, Adam F. Ciesinski, 'James C. Cooper, Joseph T. Cristi- ano, *A. Al'thur Davis, III., William .l:!!dwards, William K. Flynn, Robert W. Frelick, Melvin F. Getritz, Rob- ert J. Gilston, Boyd E. Golder, Man- uel Gt·een, Dickinson E. Griffith, Jr., Thomas E. Hannon, George W. Hemstead, H., *Robet·t S. Herman, r>aul H. Howe, John J. Kalinoski, Edgar I. Keet·s, Warren C. Kimmey, Salvatore P. LaCerva, *John .1:\. Lewis. Al thur E. Lowenthal, Leon- ard C. Mackenzie, Jr., Adfur E. .v1aines, Jr., Raymond F. Male, r(oger D. Marshall, .Clarenee H. .>!Cvain, Howard 0. Mott, William J. Noonan, James A. O'Connor, om·ton R. Payne, Jr., John D. l:\hillips Philip S. Potter, Jr., f'homas Pritchard, Robert A. Quinn, John W. Reid, Mortimer r(Obins, Daniel W. Roe, *John A. H.uskowski, Winston A. Saunders, Lloyd M. Schloop, Robert S. Schul- ber.g, 'Latikar Schwaitz, Louis Semenoff, John W. Senn, James G. Shaw, *Ernest A. Staley, 'Milton H. Sugarman, Alfred J. Swyer, Leon- ard A. Taylor, *David V. Tiedeman, *Alexander Turchick, James E. Twining, Jr., James Ullman, Wil- liam H. Walker, Austin H. White, Harry H. Wood. BS in Civil Engineering: John F. Canf.ield, Henry L. Crosby, Jr., Paul V. Mara, R. Gordon Murphy, Har- old 0. Nadler, George W. Norris, J·r., Thomas C. Smith, J.r. BS in Electrical Engineering: Cecil E. Angell, :George S. Becker, Jack W. Danser, Richard C. GrH- fin, W. Gordon Murray, David E. Waters. BS in Chemistry: Robert W. Hob- day, John H. Spittle. CLASS OF 1942 Bachelot· of Arts: Raymond E. Ald- ric-h, Jr., Alexander J. Arony, *Hansjoerg Boll, Gemge W. Clark, Robert C. Connell, A. Thomas Cor- rigan, Louis A. Dacundo, William M. Daly, Maurice Deul Donald C. Field, *Robert D. Forrest, William C. Garcia, Delphis C. Goldberg, Stewart E. Goldblatt, Bernard F. Haake, *Frank X. Hasselbacher, Harold V. Hendrickson, Robert W. Howard, John A. Knapp, William A. LaBattaglia, '\Philip J. Landry, Jr., Arthur L. LaRoche, Jr., Ken- neth E. Mackenzie, Earl McMullen, Jt·., William E.. Moore, *Nicholas Morelli, Angus T. Morrison, Ray- mond R. Palazini, Warren E. Per- kins, Donald M. Phillips, *Frederick P. Schmelzer, Edward P. Shapi·ro, William C. Stone, Jason A. Tepper, *Roy H. Webster, Clayton L. Wil- liams, Clarence E. Woodward. BS in Civil Engineering: Benja- min Jalwbowski, J'l'., Fred J. Longe, -s. B. ! \Richard H. Marvin, John J. Mc- Manus, *Hairy E. Rifenbark, Theo- dore D. l{obinson, II. BS in ELectrical Engineering: Ed- ward J. Kalenik, W'illia:m R. Kruesi, •Hat t·y E. Stevens, Donald H. Wells. BS in ·ChPmistr;y: Gharles 0. Bost- wick, rlobert W. Davison, *Solomon J:'enner. BS in Ph3-sics: Ftancis H. Coffin, ·'Sanford P. Thompson. CLASS OF 1943 Bachelor of Arts: Donald E. Abood, Robert M. Bishop, Richard Z. Bouton, *Emile J. Brunet, Wil- liam H. Cummings, J·r., John M. Du- ford, Norman D. Fenster, *Harvey J. Fishbone, Donald G. Geisel, Ed- ward C. Green, John Gulnac, *Rob- ert M. Kahn, *Joseph E. Ledden, Leon Levine, Everett H. McCarty, Harold M. Messenger, Jr., Robert B. Nemerof-f, James H. Pm·dy, III, Manuel A. Rodriguez, David H.l Rosen·blum, *Walter J. Schulz, *Wil- · liam A. Sharkey, Fred M. Siegel, I Charles W. Snell, *Jack R. Staley, I Reinhold B. Tolge, '''Granger Tripp, Richard T. Vinick, Richatd K. Wa- 1 tanabe, Lloyd B. Webb, William F. 1 1 Wetterau, WHey C. Wilson, Norman N. Wmbel. j Engineering: George H. Ander-, son, John L. Dutcher, Rkhard F. i Hoft·man, *Francis J. Jankowski,; Louis M. Loeb, Chazles A. McHarg, i Jr., Frank J. Salamone, *Michael 1 T. Seppanen, Ro·bert L. Shepheid,, Richard A. Swift, Ghal'!es W. Thur-, stan. BS in Chemistry: Harold P. Bo-: denstab, ''JamE>s 1 S. Gilmore, Donald J. G·iroux, Irving Goodman, Ger- hard W. Leubner, Theodot e Male. CLASS OF 1944 Bachelor of Arts: *Robet t H. Barnes, Martin J. Caplan. Marvin E. Cramer, Joseph A. Drago, *Ron- ald B. L. Epstein, Bruce G. Gillies Theodore H. Grey, T. Edward Han- ig-an, Jr., Robert J. Herman, Robert P. Heywood, Wilfred G. Horsman Edward L. Johnson, *Albert M. Kronick, Nicholas Milano, Joseph M. Morris, Al'thur R. Pastore, Jr., Seymour T. Pearlman, John 'R. Pellettier, Haigaz Saatjian, Clair C. Smith, Daniel Wit, *Rober,t L. Ze:l. Bachelor of Science: John L. Clowe, Arthur A. DeLm·enzo, Charles D. Lothl'idge, Franklin S. McKeever, Paul W. Myers, *Vincent S. Palladino, James E. Smith, II., 1 •Clifford M. Tepper, Seymour I Thickman. 1 Engineering: Het.bert C. Brede- meier, *Clarence R. Droms, Robert E. Edwards, John C. Gresham, Karl J. Klarman, James W. Mavor, Jr., John M. Schamberger, Richard M. Tyndall, Judson Zimmer, Jr. BS in Chemistt•y: James B. Bouck, Stephen G. Clarke, Andrew L. ·Comrey, Jack Family, Edward J. Hennelly, .Seymour L. Meisel, *Ed- win C. Smith, •Marshall C. Yovits. BS in Physics: *Ralph W. Dres- sel, John R. LaPann. ---·--0--- NOTICE Full color reproductions of the paintings exhibited by Carl A. Faille will be on sale from April 14 to the 18th in the College Book- store. Only those paintings voted the best by the Etudents will be available. The paintings are 10 inches by 12 inches and are priced at $1. Although the paintings· are regularly priced at $2.50, a special concession has been made to Union students whereby they may be pur- chased for $1. i 'BennyRidesAgain'WithNewBand And His Clarinet Stirs .Spec.tators By THOMAS CULLEN Benny is EtiH tops. Just ask six thou::;and tic]{et holders, a couple of thousa11d ga;te crashers, and yom· reporter who gathered at the Man- hatt::m Center on the evening of March 31 to abwrb an hour and e. half of Ber1ny's music. Thi:;, too, happened to be the first time danc- ing was ·permitted at one of Good- man's broadea,;ts, and as can well be imagined, Httle or no dancing was done. Even before the broad- ca::;t the fan~ had a chance to dance for a fuH hour, but instead they just shoved, pu::;hed, and yelled their approval as Benny played their favorite tunes. Although sweet music was played the major- ity of the time, Benny's admirers contented themselves by grJ·uping about the stage and watching the band. Benn3-· FPntures Swet\t and Swing sedion gives Benny the best tenor sax man he has had. Formerly with Artie Shaw's reed section, Ge01:ge plays most of the solos and sounds reaUy tenific. The brass section, continuing in the Goodman tradition, fe~.t ures such outstanding men as Bi:Jly Butterfield, Jimmy Maxwell, and Cootie WiHiarns. Maxwel!l and But- tt'rfield play lead..~ an.d solo l·t·urnp- ets while WiJ.liams sits in on spe- cialty numbers and plays with .the Sextet. Cootie's famous \growl\ trumpet has become renown through the years with Dulre El- lington. Butterfield, formerly with Bob Crosby's band where he .played lead and solo, is fresh fl·om Artie Shaw rendition of \Stardust.\ ered himself with glory on the Shaw rendition of \Stardust\. In the rhythm section are Cha•r- The poor acoustics in the tre- lie Christian on the electric guitar, mendous theater together with the Joh•nny Guineri at the piano, Ar- pervad-ing excitement made hear-. thur Burnstein on the slap bass, ing a bit difficult at times, but it. and Dave Tough beating out on the took no connoissuer to see that d·rums. Burnstein was ranked sec- Benny Goodman's new organization ond in the recent poll> conducted is as good if not better than his by Metronone and Down Bea:t, and old one. Due to e-xceptio.1ally unique Christian carried off first honors arrangements, hiE ~:weet numbers in both ma.gazines. are more danceable than ever, and · Helf'n ForrE\st Sings Vocals his swing tunes compare most favorably with those of his old The vocal department is being band. The brass and reed sections ably taken care of by Helen For- still have the same punch that rest, who used to be the songstress charactizes Benny's outfit, and the for Artie Shaw. At present .she is addition of a baritone sax gives doing a very noteworthy job for more depth and volume to the band. Benny, and she is a great asset NumberE like \Amapola \Perfidia\ to the band. and \Benny Rides Again' particu- W.hen the Junior Prom takes larly illustrate this. The saxes play place May 9, those who attend the a predominant part in the theme . Prom will not be disappointed. of these pieces, and they are blend- Lovers of sweet music as well as ed with the rest of the band with 'overs M swing music will be· af- extremely good taste. forded plenty of opportunity to To understand why Benny i\ hear their favorite numbers. Dance still riding on the crest of the wave, music will naturally be predorni- one has only to look at the person- nate, but those who reaily want to nel of his new aggreg-ation The ad- hear Benny \give-out\ will not at- dition of George Auld to the sax tend the Prom in vain. Every operator in this t~lephone exchange must speak four languages! ... ;:;.) Each operator in San Francisco's Chinatown telephone ex:~ change must speak English plus at least three of the five Chinese- dialects-Som Yup, Soy Yup, Heong Sow, Gow Gong and Aw Duck-in order to handle calls. For the average Chinese understands no dialect but his own! Since there is no Chinese alphabet, the 36 page directory~ listing 2200 subscribers, can't be printed in the usual way. It is handwritten-then reproduced by engraving and print.- ing processes. Subscribers are listed by streets, instead of alphabe-tically. And operators must almost know the hook by heart, for the Chinese seldom call by number-but by name and address. Here is a Bell System exchange that in many ways is unique. But it is just like thousands of others in giving good service to telephone users. ... I ( ·~ ' tc w dl tl sq of he gE st m th b~ n \a w gE cc lo PI D tb T pE jo ii s ti a \'1 t' \'1 e s t I t ' I

en or m:ge in ures and But- spe- the owl\ El- the Ar- the ~ec- a·nd -nors eing For- is for the as af- to omi- to at- .. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1941 Page Three lacrosse Ten Makes Home Debut With Tufts Tom or row ··-------------------------- Coac·h Wyatt Promises Jumboes Baseballers Manager F eated Upon Appointment Tennis Starts Next Team Season Friday Hot Reception; Says His Squad Return With Wi·~l Gi~e a G~eat Performance One Victory Tufts Colleges Jumboes wrll be here tomorrow afternoon to help the varsity lacrosse team get its home season undel'- way officiaHy at 2 o'clock on Library field. It will also be the debut of Fred Wyatt and Joe Paul as varsity coaches before It will only be a matter of hours now, unless it rains, before the var- sity tennis squad wiU take to the outdoor courts. The netmen are anxiously awaiting the big moment next Thur::><lay when they entrain for a four-clay swing into Penn- sylvania for two matches. the home crowd. Downed Lehigh, 5-4, But Lost to Moraviar:~, West Chester State Wyatt and Paul chape10ned their • - squad on a highly successful tour Warm Weather Brings Gloom To BHI Ketz Box scoree tell better than wcrds why the baseball team won one game and lm't two on its vaca- tion trip last week. Briefly, the team played mid-$ea>'on ball de- fensively but couldn't hit the size of Art Lawrence's hat. Coach Marve Dwore and his racqueteers open their 10-match schedule next Friday at Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. Next Sat- of Maryland last week, returning home with three victories in five games. In these contests the Dutch stickmen showed a steady improve- ment and Coach Wyatt promises that Tufts will be greeted tomorrow by a \hard-c.harging attack and a rugged defense,\ predicting that \anyone who beats them ( Un:ionl will know they've been in a ball game!\ If Tufts comes here tomorrow ac- companied by a strong smell of col- lodion and numerous bandages, praise \allah\ .for Hobart. The Deacons of Geneva, always tops in the bagatteway game, play hosts to Tufts this afternoon and are ex- pected to do quite a softening up job on the Jumboes. Team Looks Smart Okaying Wyatt's and Paul's pre- diction that their lacr ossers are go- ing to give a good account of them- selves in their seven matches this spring, are all of the students who have watched the stickmen in drills this week. The team put in a long drill yesterday, scrimmaging in an intrasquad team test, and ex- hibiting somge fancy play through- out. Besides the varsity men, a squad of 20 fre~hmen has been drilling this week. Though they lost to Army by 15-0 and Johns Hopkins by 14-1, the la- crossers had a fine time on their vacation trip. They even managed to beat the Montclair A. C., 6-4, Friends Academy by 5-2, and Gill- man by an unknown margin. The experience they gained, both in la- crosse and other lines, is expected to stand the Dutchmen in good stead in times to come. Tomorrow's Lineup Three sophomores, who were members of last year's top-notch freshman ten, will be in the Union starting lineup tomorrow, according to Coaches Wyatt and Paul. The~ are Frank England, Paul Santee and the All-Baltimore boy, Fred Wikoff. The rest of last year's yearling squad will adorn the bench. Go-Captains Dud Holmes and \·Bfacltjack\ Guibert will get start- ing berths against Tufts. They'll st3rt at goal and center. respec- tively. Ed Eustice, Bob Nothacker and Bob Newton will p;ay cefense with veteran Ed \lard rounding out the mid!ield trio. Ronn) Ostrander will start at attack. .Reserves will he rr.ore prevalent than they have in more than five years. All but two have had previ- ous experience. They are Bob Marshall, Bob Pano!f. Van Thom- son, Len Benjamin, Bob Molloy Bob ()orby, Jim Giln:ore, George Weed, .<Job Davis. Ronny Macorr:- ber, Chuck Thurston. Don Haigh, Ray Aldrich, George Non·is Mor- t is Timpson, Dick Balch, Paul Mara, Ken Longe, Dick Griffith, Paul Dwyer and George Bedell. Balch, quarterback on the varsity football team last fall, turned in an especially good performance down south. Though he's a seniot·, this is his first real season with the team. Ed \Vard and Wikoff were superla- tive on the attack, wtlile Nothacker wa.s a tower on defense. ----o--- Week-end May Bring Drills for Golfers With most of the city's courses opening this week-end, the varsity golf team is expected to get in their first real licks of the season. They open their season April 29, enter- taining Middlebury, and will finish up with seven other matches, three of them away. Puffs Pipe and Moons About So-so Prospects As Opener Approaches Un'like the fine Spring weather of late, Coach BHJ Ketz has turn- ed from sunshine to gloom, when he foretells of the prowess of his track squad this season. What looked like a fine bunch of pros- pects, has turned into a \so-so\ group of track and field men, ac- cording to Coach Ketz. Hot Half-Mil!'I'S Probably the best prospects are in the half mile run, and outstand- ing in this event will be \Doc·· Ot·ton, who has akeady turned in a 2;07 minute j-ourney around the oval. Ketz i~ really pleased with Orton and Bernie O'Neil, who has ailso shown a great deal of prom- is e. In the 100-yard dash, ·ex-hammer thrower Ketz, will call on Wally MacMiHan in the home meets, but becau:;e of ineligibility he will be unable to compete out-of-town. Bob Muther, Stan Davis and MacMillan will get the gun in the 220-yard dash, and Muther, Davis and Johnny Lewis will be used by Ketz in the 440-yard dash. The half-mile i's well taken care of with Orton and O'Neil, while hard-running \Doc\ Maines and Jim Purdy will :;ee Hrvice in the mile run. Purdy has shown lots of speed lately and will probably be a point gainer for the Garnet squad. Lanky Charlie Snell and Bob Shepard are the best prospects for the two-mile, according to Coach Ketz. Snell has improved greatly over last ·season and will undoubt- edly carry the mail in this event. Captain Bothwell Hurdles Timber topping for Union this year will be Captain Jim Bothwell and Long Bill Wilkin. Captain Bothwell covered hb first flight of hurdle\ recently 111 good time, and Ketz expects Bothwell to be an assest in this department. . urday on the <arne trip they meet r::::xcept for one slip when they !ct Moravian pound, across dx run's in the seventh inning, the Dutch baseb:rller,; were pretty stingy against their opponenU;. They held powerful West Chester State to a 3-1 victory and then nosed out Lehigh University, 5-4. 1 for their only victory. That big seventh inning did most of the damage for Moravian in its 9-0 defeat of the Garnet. Rain forced the cancellation of the Hofstra game, robbing the Pictured above is Philip S. Puttt>r, Jr., (in white shirt, black tie and smile-), as he and a group of admirers celebrated his recent appointment as playing-manager of varsit~· tennis. Potter succeeds Ed Kelly, who resigned. - -l•'oto h;- Fox Lawrencemen of an opportunity to B th/ h Strt\ke-r~ bring their· record to .500. They'll e e em I ~ 0. K. Union \Scab\ have to wait until April 22 for that. Then they meet strong Ma~-' But Call Art Lawrence eachusetts State at Amherst. a Swarthmore College at Swarth- more. If they are still able aftet' the trip they'H finish out the other· eight matches on their slate. Ineligibility on the part of Cap- tain Doug Schattan is going to hurt the tennis squad, whose five veteran lettermen promise to give it a better record than last year. However, Coach Dwore has severai prom1smg sophomores, who will probably fit into his plans well , enough to replace Schattan on the road. He is eligible for home en- . gage menU;. Ken Sharpe seems destined for the No. 1 spot on the squad. The California sophomore put in lots of practice at Miami Beach during vacation last week. Playing man- Moran Sta1·s Tobacco-chewing Union College i · ager Phil Potter got in several baseballers made a big hit with was ready for a mass assault on workouts at Vassar College (on Roger Moran, who held >lugging striking steel workers in Bethle- the \Union scab.\ Arbitration en- the clay courts), and Ted Vinick West Che>ter to five hits and got a hem, Pa., last week. Art Lawrence sued, however, and Union still has· and Schattan were two men who triple and a single besides, was the was called a scab and the team did a coac·h. made use of campus facilities for star of the trip from a Union everything but hit the ball. There's a lot more to tell about several drills. standpoint. He pitched superlative Vvhen they trotted out into the the escapades of the Dutch dia- Dwore and Phil Englehardt, ball and will be Lawrence's No. 1 Lehigh University Stadium, the mondmen, but Manager Jim Ull- rated among Schenectady County's man the rest of the year. George Dutchmen were greeted by a mot- man will spin the rest of the yarn best tennis players, have been play- Coley and Mike Fiester also came ley group of etl'ikers carrying clubs in his chapel talk next Wednes- ing with the Union squad this week, through in fine pitching form. and wanting to know just what day. giving them pointers and a lot of Fire on the Nott Street field held ''Union\ the baseballers represent- A Jot might also be said about exercise. up yeEterday's practice and the ed. Informed that it was the Col- the Jacroose team's doings on its ~;;,;;;;;;,;;;;;;,;;;;;;,;;;;;;,;;;;;;,;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;;,;;;;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;_: team DUt in a rather hectic eession, lege Union, the, strikers decided trip, but unfortunately \not much fighting smoke and dust. Though [that they'd stay az:d s~e the fun. of it is fit for print,\ in the words of he couldn't see his outfielders , They took great delJght m the Gar- Bob Panoff. Publicity shy, the through the spark-filled air, Law- net victory over Lehigh and were stickmen have kept very quiet renee fungoed out long hits, most back next day to set their heroes about their jaunt. Probably their of which were well caught. He also take on Moravian. reputation will catch up with them worked his infield. Monday the nine Somewhere in the course _of before long. will begin drilling on Graduate events Coach Lawrence had a mrld =;;;;;;;;;;::;,::;;;;=;;;;;;;;=;, Council Field. Box .;cores of the , verbal disagreement wtth one of the ,.., three games played last week fol- strikers and before the game Wa.':' low: 1 out the large and erstwhile friendly R::~~-~n Zb A 4 B ~ : ~O ~ E 011 roo~ting section, armed with clubs, Jones, ,c . . . . . . . . . . 5 1 1 5 0 Weintraub, rf ..... 4 0 1 0 0 0 1 Rathlev, ss ....... 4 1 0 1 10 2. Rasso, Jf . • . . . . . • . 4 0 2 1 0 0 : Quigle~:, 1b ....... 4 1 2 12 0 0 1 Raifstanger. cf ... 3 1 0 5 0 0 0 I Steingut 3b ...... 4 0 0 1 1 Coley, p . . . . . . . . . . 2 0 0 0 2 0 : F 0 R <Continued on Page 4) Arrow Shirts ------ ---------- SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper, One Step frorr State Stree1 UP TO DATE STYLES $4.85 up Collegiate Fit PATTON & HALL 245 State St. Moving on the weight depart- ment, Winsome Wilford v,as not too moved by his prospects. Bundy Shaw, Stan Davis, Stew Goldblatt and Bud Sawyer will heave the shot putt this spring. Sawyer is the best man in this line, coming within nine inches of the college record after only three days ut practice. The javelin will be poor. The men in this event are inex- · perienced, but Walt Breed, Ed Keers, Gordy Semerad and Tom Parsons have shown some talent and may develop. 1-Iow To Make Every Chair An Easy Chair Bundy Shaw, John Gulnac, John Adamzevich and AI Callan are woring out daily with the discus, but none have shown any parti- cular promise of becoming record breakers. Veteran Pete Plummer and Gus Morrison will combine their ef- forts in the high jump, while Mor- rison will double in the pole vault with John Senn and Harlan Buck· Janel. Rounding out the squad will be Lou D'Acundo, Avery Beer and Johnny Lewis who will leap through I space for Union in the broad jump. Featuring Benny Goodman's Orchestra Look at Me Now Lazy River No. 36012 THE neatest way to send Why students squirm in classrooms~ I. Because the lecture is dull. 2. Because they're going to be called on. 3. Because they're wearing uncomfortable underwear. We can only cure the third case! We suggest that you stock up on the world's most com• fortahle shorts: Arrow Shorts. They have the patented seamless crotch, they h\lve roomy seats, they never shrink out-of perfect fit. What's more they have grippers instead of buttons-nothing to sew back on! For the past week the atmos- phere around the chapel has' been especially dangerous as the would- be Bobby Joneses got their drivers into action. Most of the swingers were either Alpha Delts or Psi U's. It was nice to see the A.D.'s getting out for something. After winning their Middlebury match, the golfers face the fol- lowing schedule: Syracuse, away, April 30; Hamilton, away, May 3; Williams, home, May 5; Syracuse, home, May 9; Middlebury, away, May 14; and Hamilton, home, May. 19. My Sister and I I'm Not Complainin' No. 36022 CASSEDY wriggles and squirms pack- ing is to get yourself into Arrow shorts. They're the most com- fot·tablc made! They don't crawl up your legs, they have no cen- ter scam, and they're extra roomy. Furthermore, they stay that way because they're San- forized-Shrunk (fabric shrink- age less than 1 ':C). Get Arrow shorts with Grippers today. Shorts, 65c Tops, SOc ARROW UNDERWEAR Arrow Shorts GSc Arrow Tops SOc NUSBAUM'S ~47-451 STATE STREET Howard Matt is manager-captain of the golf team and Bob Cox i.s listed as coach. Matches will be played at both the Municipal and PIANO CO. 460 State, neal' Proctors 4-5067 Mohawk Golf Club courses. t..:,.. _______________ ,

,, Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1941 I Variety· Magazine: Stanley, Mcllwaine Receive Call! Sophomo~re Exa:ms I r----------------------------------------------1 Sings Our Sorrow To Colors for 'Indefinite Time' !O(cur Next Week ! Baseball Box S(ores 1 Periodical Mentions Our Attack of GAC In Reference to Dorsey In an a1·ticle headed ' vollegians Resent LancellatJon~. · the enter- tainment wo!ld nev.spaper. \\-a- rL•ty,\ on ~1fi1'Ph 1\1 l\f'lH>rl.Pd t hf' growing resentment again,t the brealdng ot contract,; lly name bands. Keith .\lcC'and:css's letter pub- lished in 1ne Loncoi'diensis 1s quoted non1 at lPnglll. eseecialty tne part in which .Hc._andless bit- terlv aosurled tne coHtr-ad ntethuus of i-tame bands. ' 1 he Loncordien- ,;i::;\ euitorial on the ou:;-iness r;,eth- uds of booJiers wa\ a1so quoted. \Variety l'eported that tne Gen- eral Amusement corporat1on ·ex- pla-med yesterday tlla t 1t haa uua:;hed out tne ,Ituallun with the prom committee tne Wt'l'll ber01 '' '.;larch \J-1;.,) and it \Ia..-; under the im.p1·esswn that everyttlmg nad been settled when uenny Goodman ,,a;, oota.med to 1111 the date . .Al1 contract__,, GAC: ,;aid, ate sUbJ!\Ct tc the a-pproval or tne band leader, and ir ::;igned tne leader mu:;t play the date o1· pay a substantial :oum of money. In this instance Dor;:,ey had not okayed the date, the GAL telt obligated anyway, and, accord- ing to its own deciswn, It adnuttec re::;ponsibility to t1le eommittee and ulfet·ed to make any adjustment thP eommittee suggested. The >Ubstitu- tion of Goodman followed.\ Buffalo Situation The new~ paper 1 epot·tet; a tliffer- c•nt but common .-ituation from uU!Iaol when it ~aid: \Resentment uf co.tlege kid~ aga1n~1 la:-;t nlin- uatt' :;witches by name bands has resulted in an increa.,-,ed u:;e uf lo- cal band~. As ca><' in point, Bub A1mstrong who ha~ the house band at WBE::S, has been g<•tting lots ol bookings that would m the pa~t have gone to outside name unit:;. \Last switcll was a ntunth ago when Johnny Lung-, who was :;ched- uled fm· the Unive1·sity of Buffalo hop, cancelled out, and VVill Hudson wa:; booked in his piace. Dancers came to see Long, a loeal raY~ be- eause of his long stand at onE> time at the Statler Hotel and were ;ome- .. hat miffea at finding ~omeone t;o.se. 0 Schedule Prize Debate For Next Week Eliminatwn conte:;(:; will be held on .:'.londay evneing in Silliman Hall at 8 o'cloek for those interest- .:<! in trying out far the Good1 ich- Duane Extempmaneous Debate. Thf' debate will be held on the \>edne::\day evening- following t hP nyoutf. 1 hreP subject~ ha \·e been select- ed fm· thE> nreliminan· c.ontPst..•. 1'hey deal with ~ubsidiza.tion of ath- etic:; in rollt>ge, deft'rment of col- !ege •tu<lents from militarv train- ing until )!\raduaticn. and the nll\th- od of financing small colh·g-e>'. The topic fer the elimination> will be ,--elected on :l.!onday evening- imme- diatl'ly pn•Peding the debates. Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk Sumnumed to Service MR. ROBI-~RT STANLEY High-Ranking Freshman .llt•ets His IJ\atl'rloo Libra,! y ,uater~ who had noted the ~witch in the rest 1 uoms watC'hed thP change snare its first victin1 TuPsday n1orning whPn a st:on. unassuming fresh- man heatl<\d for what he thought wa:o' th( 1 l\P.St roon1. Opc>ning the com. this live A man was confust'd and sut prised to find women's apparel neatly hung up on pPgs and ,eosmeties arranged m:E>1 the washbasin. Blushing hPavily he siammpd the door whiiP the luafPl'S ruan•d. Al- though clearly mar·ked \Ladies he had by force of habit opened the dour of the for·mer men's wash room. Th\ new mPn's rPst room is now lo~ated in the alcm·p in the tear ol the Hbtary where t.he tor- mer women's rest room \\as lo- cated. Sigma Xi Initiation, Banquet Date Selected D1·. AuS!ustus H Fox. secrPtan .>f thl' l'~ian chapter of Sigrr.a Xl. mnoun~ed todav that the initia-tion J! thl' eight ne~·ly electetl asso~iate 11embe1 s wi:l be l;pld on :.\1ay 2. Tl:P lurrr.al mttiation will pre2ede 1 dnnPr which will bP held in Hale :-Jou,;e. Following the dinner there .vi!! bt> a !Pctm e by Dr. Saul A. :Jushman of the GE'neral Electric :ompany and special !ectu1·er on _.Juantum The01-y in the Old Chapel. The eight initiates include four .. •!ect rica! Pngineers Cecil E. Angell. _;pot·gp S. Becker. Ja~k \'ll. Danser. and Riehat·d C. Griffin: one civil engineer, HPnry L Crosby; one ps)Chology major, David V Tiede- :nan. and two pre-medic~. Louis SemPnoff and George V\'. Hem- 5tPad. all '41. A SMASH HIT! Harry Jarnes Trumpet Solos FLIGHT OF THE BUMBLHEE CARNIVAL OF VENICE New Columbia Records on sale at j Robert Stanley, in>tructor In en-: .. --·---------------------------------------------' I ~ineering, and Theodore ~'lei!~. •aine, I Class of '43 Tests West Chester AB R H PO A E Union AB R H PO A E l.!'Sistant comptroller, have been I Begin on Ap il 16 Duke, Sol, 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 •• 4 0 1 2 3 1 Reilly, 2b . 0. 0 0. 0 0. 4 0 0 1 4 1 , ·ailed to active duty in the United · r. Smith, 3b ......... 2 0 0 1 1 0 Jones, c .......... 2 0 0 4 0 0 3tates Army. They are the first For Three Sessions Benny Ish, cf. .... 4 o 1 o o o Weintraub, rf ..... 3 o o 3 o o faculty members to be cal:ed tCJ the Gunderson, lb .... 4 0 0 13 2 1 Rathlev, p ........ 4 0 1 0 2 o army. They are both reserve offi- To the members of the Class of Klanl1, rf. . ....... 3 1 0 1 0 0 Rasso, If ......... 3 0 1 1 0 0 cers. 1943: Cozzi, 2b ......... , 3 1 1 1 3 1 Quigley, 1•b ....... 3 0 1 14 0 0 Stanley began service last wee!' · . · Leith If 3 1 1 o 1 o Rail ta f 3 o 1 0 0 9.S a fin;t lieutenant in the Fiftll The Natl~nal. Coopeiatlve Sopho- • · · · · · ·. ·-.. s · nger, c . . . 0 v • . . . . ,. . more Exammatwns for the class of Kutz, c ............ 3 0 1 8 1 0 Carnwright, cf .... 3 0 0 1 2 1 ~1gnal ~at~a!IDn m . Camp C,_al-~1943 will .be ,held Wednesday a-nd PaHott, p ......... 1 0 0 0 0 0 Bteingut, 3b ..... , 1 0 0 0 2 1 ~urn.e, ~UISJ~na, wht~e .~'ldlw~me Thursday, April 16 and 17 . They re- Freudensheim, p .. 1 0 0 1 1 0 Fiester, p ......... 1 0 0 0 0 0 .111 Iepo_tt fa t_empOiat) d-ut~ at quire tht'N' sessions t·he first be- Wisneski, p ...... 0 0 o o 3 0 ;::!oley, p .......... 1 0 o o o o Nest_. 1 fomt tpl~ ~5. BF~·~n_t, the_r_c ginning at 8 a. m. ~n Wednesda~·. 8!ark, rf ......... 0 0 0 0 0 0 Wysocki, rf ...... 1 0 0 0 0 0 l~ .'-\1 go o oit e \On, VH- the second at 8 a.m. on Thursday, Wright, rf. ........ 1 0 0 0 0 0 Tota:s .......... 29 0 4 24 10 3 ;Hua._ for study ~.s a stude.ct. . and the third at 2 p, m. on Thurs- Keating, 3b. . ..... 1 0 0 0 0 0 Union .............. OCO 000 000-0 Cai,;ect for extended . actJve day. Sophomores whose last narr:es Totals .......... 30 3 5 27 15 3 MGravian .......... 100 000 62x-9 luty, __ Stanle~- has been gn-:e~ a~ begin with A and go th 1 ·ough :Me- llnion AB R H PO A E nde!imte _lea~ e of absence. Pt ofe, Carty will report to room 22 of the Reilly, 2b. . ....... 4 0 c 2 1 1 or. Hall mdicat.ed tha.t Mr. Stan- Electr-ical Enginee 1 ing Laboratory. Jones, c ........... 4 0 1 8 1 (l * ey s absence w1_11 create ~ sh~rt- All others will repo! t to room 201 Weintraub, rf ..... 3 0 0 2 0 L ge of teachers m t_he engmeenng of the Chemica•! LaboraLOry. Rathlev, ss ........ 4 0 0 0 1 J Union 5, Lehigh 4 epartment. Stanley s cla<ses have All sophomores are required to Rasso, lf .......... 3 o o o o c een ta!{en_ over: by other mcnben· tal>e the examinations. The Iesults Quigley. lb. 3 0 0 9 0 c f the 1 engm~er\ng ~ep~rt!:u~nt .• _!f~ will become a part of the college Wysocki. cf ....... 3 0 0 1 0 C ·_as a so ~~ ms rue or 111 t .e C 1ecord of each student. A fee wil: ::::a1 nwright, 3b .... 3 0 0 2 3 1lot trammg . program a_nd lle be chaiged for taking the exam-in- Mo1an, p .......... 3 1 2 C 3 C aught el~~ses m the PVPnmg de- ations at any later date. Totals .......... 30 1 3 24 9 5 ;me tra_mmg ~cho~l. Hem-y _G After the pa·pers are scOI·ed, ea~h Score by innings: arlow Will assume Ius CAA dutres student will receive a profile on Union College ....... 000 010 000-1 ·hile Pr·ofessor :l.im·timer I<'. Say1c which he may see how his own per- • .-est Chester ....... 030 000 OOx-3 iH conduct his defense cla~ses. formance compares with students * * * McllwainP Graduatt-d Twict- in other colleges as well as with· Mora\·ian AB R H PO A E Mr. Mellwaine has the unique members of his own ciass at Union Levy, 2b .......... 3 1 3 2 2 1 . t. t This will provide him an oppo1 tun- Croman, 3b ....... 4 2 0 2 1 0 ~ ._ulCtluL1 u.~- gr ..... uua l .. g u--H..t • U . 1 Co!lcae He reneive<' 1ty to estimate both his strengths Wiszn-iewsky, cf .. 3 2 1 0 0 0 ·.om, 1110 1 . \ • and weaknesses. Ft i tchman, c _ .... 4 2 2 6 2 0 an A.B. degree 111 1930 · and he 1 e- .Students need not bring pencil m· Sinton, rf ......... 5 1 1 0 0 0 • •• Lu \' ·-.~- a.:o a J•\ 110 ' to take I paper, as the mac·hine scoring an- G1iffith. 1b ....... 3 1 1 14 1 0 •urses leadmg to a deg-!'ee of B.S swer sheets and electroor h' - K If 4 0 1 0 0 0 'iYil Cn~ineering whirh he t·e- cils will be used. \ ap Ie pen I'aus, · · · · · · · · · 93 H k d th th ::::ompardo, ss ..... 4 0 1 2 4 1 ceived in 1 4. e wor ·e wt e Students not only need not but Stelter, p ......... 4 0 0 1 8 0 United S~ates 'i\ar D~pm·tme~t ~~ a o;hould not attempt to prepare for Sydorak, If ....... 1 0 0 0 0 0 CIVIl engmeer ollowmg_ gra ua -~on I these examinations. Theil chief Totals .......... 35 9 10 27 18 2 and befol'e he was appomted assist-~ purpose is to measure one's store of --=:.:-:.·:.:-:....:--::-::-==:..:-========::::::; ant comptro!1e1 in A~gust .. 193~, he pe1 manent knowledge, not a tem- I was an ass1s~ant en,meet foJ thl' 1 porary amount which mig-ht be Plattsburg Highway Department. i gained from an intensive review As yet no one has b:en selected ! Immediately preceding the examin- to replace ~1r. Stanley 111 the engi- 1 ations. C. F. GARIS, Dean neering department, and no on!' ha~ , ================., ..Jeen appointed to ~1r. Mcilwaine'. 11 post. ---·0- - ---- PLEDGE NOTICE Delt:t Chi Fraternity announces the pledging of Rheinhold To:ge · · 43, of Sc hen ecta dy Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Phone 6-1248 Call Ball and Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUk MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction'' 0 598 B'way - For Better Values GET YOUR HAIR CUT Tile Remodelled SANITARY BARBER SHOP Next to the Union Inn (Continued from Page 3) Fiester, p ......... 2 0 0 0 1 0 Totals .......... 36 5 9 27 15 3 LPhigh AB R H PO A E Roberts. 2b 4 1 1 2 4 0 Werft, 1b ......... 4 1 1 15 1 0 For·ste1·, ·cf . . . . . . . :1 1 1 3 0 0 Loomis, lf-p . . . . . . 5 0 0 0 2 2 Smith, ss ......... 4 0 2 1 2 0 Milbanks, rf ...... 4 0 2 2 0 0 Kister, 3b ........ 4 0 1 0 4 0 Robinson, c ....... 4 1 1 2 2 0 Whipple, p . . . . . . . 1 0 0 2 2 0 Goodman, p . . . . . . 1 0 0 0 0 0 Duane, If ......... 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fuller . . . . . . . 1 0 1 0 0 0 Totals .......... 35 4 10 27 17 2 Union .............. 000 020 3C0-5 Lehigh ............. 000 040 000-4 Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway I'hone 4-6248 Bk.EAD - ROLLS • PASTRY Ball Will Call PHONE 6-3456 FRED WARING : i I I I_ PINE GROVE DAIRY. INC. I I I 61 ER~!:: BOULEVARD PHONE 4-7741 i I __ l/i GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Cor. Barrett Simply Phone 6-9419 composer of over 50 college hit songs-in \Pleasure Time\ • FOR UNION MON., TUES., WED., THURS., FRI. at 7 P.M. N .. ,B. C. Stations PHONE 4-3121 ,---- CLUETT & SONS / 202 STATE ST. I General Ice Cream Corp. ~~~~----g- ~-~-- ~~~---:,: WJAY' J~·w~A~I;v ·c~.li' COR. STATE and CENTER STS. , ! SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. i47 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR Qlnurnrni.rtt!itn GLENN MILLER ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; 1 r i7 -=--=--===------- ----!;~-~---- ~-~-~--- - gg-----g- ~: \ America's No. 1 Dance Band Leader in \Moonlight Serenade 11 JAMES REST AU RANT 426 STATE STREET We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests GAZETTE PRESS Printers FOR UNION TUES., WED., THURS. at 10 Pn M. C. B. S. Stations z Vc I N ¥ B of laE foJ on da Tt Vii iot qu ab !'e' be pe I no all \b so wi N! qu fo at ag m• na wi ffi· ti1 th th re Wt ti1 se th bE tr cc fo ti H fc CE fe tc tl

--~ I __ ..J AE 4 1 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 x-9 1 0 5 3 4 0 1 0 0 0 2 2 2 0 0 0 4 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 2 0--4 y Old gym Turns Country Club Z-5H Vol. LXIV., No. 46 Lawrence New Registration Will Be Required By Draft Boards Military Authorities Continue Deferment In Professional Field Although only a small percer.tage of the 16,404 000 men who enrolled last October have been put in uni- form, quiet preparations for a sec- ond se:ective service registration day are being made in \'Vashington. This ·registration, which will a-fleet virtually every member of the jun- ior and senior classes who did not qualify for the last draft, will ptob- ably be fot· those men who have reached their twenty-first 'birthday between last October 16th and ttc pending registration date. Debate Finalists Chosen UNION COLLEGE. SCHENECTADY, N.Y .. TUESDAY, APRIL 15, 1941 PRICE FIVE CENTS Successor To Nitchman As Football Coach Wyatt Expects Nor·mal Registration for 1942 ----··· Sale of Tickets For Junior Prom Commences Today latter's Resignation To Become Effective August 1 5 Years A re;JOrt received today from the Admissions Office indicates normal freshman class next year, since the applications alnady re- ceived at·e a slim margin behind the number of 1USL year. Fred- e: i~ Wyatt, admiss·k:ns director, >a!d that the number of pros- rective student: now vidting the cam1,u::; i::; relatively high and tb.c.t a gt·eater number of un- dergraduates are commending the college to friends. Plans for :~ Spring \oren-house to take place after Fathet·'s Day, are now under way. As He Takes Post At Colby; Coach-ed- Here PJC!iminary scho!arships to C'nion, which are t;:, be awarded iatet· this month, will also in- rre3se the number· of applica- tiJm, .:\lr. Wyatt ~aid. To Attend Apr. 19 News Conference Conclave To Be Held At R. P. I. Clubhouse; Many Colleges Meet Fraternity Men, Neutrals, Appointed; Prices Go Up May 7 Advance sale on Junior Prom tickets >tarted today, three and a half weeks before the functi-on on May 9, through 19 fratemity rep- :·e:;entative::;, three dormitory men, three neutral~. and two independ- ent agencies. The ticket price, $6.60, includes a 60-cent defense tax, Keith McCandless, committee ~hairman, said. This fact, he said, will help to explain the slight rise in the pt·ice of the ticke~. In order to facilitate the early sale of the tickets, and avoid a last-minute rush. the price will take the usual jump to $?.00 aftet· Mon- day, May 5. Committee Me-mbl'rs The members of the general Prom Committee, which will handle NELS .NITCHMAN the actual turnover of ticliets are: St d E bl\ ART LAWRENCE Alpha Delta Phi, Eric King; AI- u ents sta zsh Campus Retreat Staff members of \The Concordi- pha Phi Delta, Michael Stanco; Had Winning Record; Basketball, Football Teams Won 77, Lost 70 Union Colleg£> accepted the resig- nation of Nelson W. Nitchman, '30, as head football and ba.<ketball coac·h and appointed Arthut· c. Lawrence, a graduate of Purdue and for seven yPars as member of U_nion's football coaching Haff, as hts successot·, it wa~ announced to- day by Director of AthlPtics J. Harold v\'ittner. ~~r. Wittner said that ;\litchman'::; t·estgnation will be effective Au- gust 1 ~o he coul!.l accent the posi- tion on the ~acuity of· Colby Col- lege c Watervtlle. Maine l where he will also be head football coach. Because Mr. Nitchman had con- I su~ted him about the posEibility of I gomg to Colby during the past month, Mr. Wittner· had given much consideration to a possible successor. His recommendation of Mr. Lawrence was accepted by a faculty committee headed by Presi- dent Fox at the same time that ac- tio~ wa.: taken on Mr. Nitchman's resrgnat10n. Wittner Lauds Nels ensis\ will attend a conference of Beta Theta Pi, Bundy Shaw; Chi 0 D tt ( 7\T [ G t Cl b college newspaper men and women Psi, Bob Baker; Delta Chi, Robert n .C a ern 0 11J0Ve OUn ry . U In an interview, Mr. Wittner sponsored join.tly by Russell Sage Hallenbeck; Delta Phi, Bob Not- By JACK SOHUUZ c+~------ _________ spoke of this change in his de- md R. P.r. news,papers at the club- hacker; Delta Upsilon, Kenneth 1 partment as follows: \I exceedt\ngly house on Saturday, April 19. Lasher; Kappa Alpha, Gus Morri- With gifts ranging from cup vious entanglement with -the \Lad;~-· regret the loss of Nels (NitchrnanJ, BlankPt Occupationa-l Dt>ft>rmt\nt Local draft boards have a!so been notified that a reclassification of all college students now enjo}ing a \blanket\ deferment from compul- sory milita-ry set·vice 'before July 1st will be necessary. A dispatch from National Selective Service Head- quarters stated that any student found to be \in training or prepar- ation\ for any industry, business, agricultural pursuit, or govern- mental service \necessary to the national health, safety, or interegt\ will be given occupational dPfer- ment. Last year \The Concordiensis\ son; Kappa Nu, Lawrence Feld- cakes to 'baseball bats to help keep in Red\. At the same time Dean for he has pr·oven to be highly cap- RoosPvelt SE>ts Dati' sponsored a conference in Silliman man; Kappa Sigma, Fred Schmelt- ·them well-fed and happy, thirteen Oakes was elected non-corr~spond- able and cooperative during the In regard to the new draft, se;ec- Hall, the building where \The Con- zer; Phi Delta Theta, Bill Farcia; Old Gymites have settled down to ing secn~tary, and George Hupman ten years of his official connection tive service headquarters also said cordiensis\ offices are located, for Phi Gamma Delta, Bob Davis; Phi enjoy in true country-club style the was given the double title of super- with the Department of Athletics that only general consideration had college newspaper staffs in the Sigma Delta, Lee Sherman; Phi ·enforced vacation which began last intendant of the building and Tis new position at Colby offer~ thus far been given to the nPxt capital district. Lawrence v. Pelle- Sigma Kappa, Thomas Parsons; Psi Thursday for them. grounds and chief gourmand. hilll: a considerably better oppor- registration, but \advance studies tier, Jr, then editor of \The Con- Up>ilon, Ed Enstice; Sigma Chi. The organized activities of the Any possible attempt of unde-;etv- tumty financially which he could were ·being made.\ Under the selee- \ordiensis\ acted as chairman. John Knapp; Sigma Phi, Jacob Van \members\ have featured almost ing students to enter \The Old Gym ill afford to disregard. I am plea£ed, tive service act, the President must Representatives from college Aernam; Theta Delta Chi, Paul -every common outdoor spovt from Country Club\ were forstalled by however, to see that his talents are se.t the date of registration . AI- newspapers all over -the not·theast- Dwyer; North College, Lou Dacun- soft ball playing to small-scale its motto, \Come a day, and stay a recognized by people other than though the draft boards will soon ern section of the United States do; South College, Jim Stillman; \track\ in Mrs. Perkins' garden. week,\ and the sign \All Males For- those at Union. I am sure that he be available for the second 1 egis- have been invited to attend. Dele- Oldgym Hall, Bob Miller; Neutrals, Lacrosse and golf tournaments of a bidden to Enter\ The sympathy will enjoy a great measure of suc- tral:ion, President Roosevelt is not gates from Skidmore. St. Rose, AI- Bet nie Haake, Bob Newton, and sort have been regular events on extended by the Old Gyrnites to the cess in his post and my sincere considered likely to set the date be- bany ::nate uc~1ucs those fru ... Abe Dorsman. the bide-a-wile lawns. Play has been student body that they too could best wishes go with him. fore August or Septerr:ber. Union ate expected by the joint In addition, it was announced the thing. Probably most of the not enjoy a \peaceful Eas.er sea- \At the same time, I look forward Scientists DuP tor Exe-mption R. P. I., Rus;ell Sage hosts. that at two additional places tick- exercise has come, however, in mis- son\ and such attractions as ten to the future with confidence be- Attention is called to those Union ThE' program includes afternoon ets will be on Eale, the Bookstore placing estranged elm leaves, try- o'clock \feeds\, lawn radio-playing cau\e I know that Art Lawrence is students who are majoring in pro- speeches by Leonard Kohlhofer, and the Student Activities Office. ing to replace one cleaning lady with resulting Sunday Chapel adequately equipped to take over fessional fields such as physics Editor· of the \R. P. I. Polytechnic,\ McCandless asked students to ·with t now l eleven man-power, and credit, a legal beer party, all five gift an~ conduct football on a plane chemistry, or biology, and who are P1 esident Wil;iam 0. Hotchkiss of listen to Benny Goodman over taking care of the mess-hall and cakes and Passover food from Mrs. wh~ch will be in keeping with the classified in Class 1-D or 1-E, that R. P. I., and William E. Haskell, WJ.Z. 7:30 every Monday night. dishes, which, so far as. this re- Milton Enzer, are but a few explan- poltcy of the adminiotration of they must be 1 ec:assified by their Assistant to the President of \The Goodman's \Perfidia\ was picked portet· can see ,are swept under the at ions of the anxiety of students to Union College.\ local draft boards before July 1 ;.lew York Herald-Tribune.\ At the as \The Record of the Week\ re- beds after meals until energetic expose themselves to the \bugs\ as Nitchman has been head foot- 1941_ Well-qualified science stu- evening banquet session Miss Jean cently. Jim Smith and his assistant stew- \Felito\ terms the little creatures ball coach for five seasons after dents, whose classification is to be :-.!othnagle former editor of the ---o---- a 1 ds can \sterilize\ them. No one who are not there, yet have made coaching the freshman football determined prior to the next college \Russell Sage Quill\ will introduce has yet been caught overworking, of Old Gym a heaven on earth. teams five years. His van;ity teams I T t\ . Mr. John Booth\ of the College 'Inspector General'.but the building has been well 0--- won 21, lost 15 and tied three year, may request c assJ tea. 1011 111 ::lervice Bureau of \The New Yo1 k Class II-A. cared for, those in the know agree. N Cl b games, scoring 482 points to his, op- This class contains men \neces- Times.\ Mr. Fred Archibald, presi- Shows Once Again When special dispensation from ewman u Receives ponent.s 353 point:;. In 1939, he sary in ,training or prepatation for dent and publisher of the \Alban:\' work and confinement was granted Nat'lonal Aff.II'Jat•Jon co_ached an undefeated Union elevn. - f h\ h Times-Union\ will deliver the con- the Scarlet Playboys to attend Sat- Hrs_ freshman football teams. at a service the maintenance o w rc 1 h · After complett\ng successful U h - 1 h lth c uding speec of the evenmg. a urday's game, every man, cheering mon won 13 games, iost 5 and tied JS necessaty to t e natlOna ea_ ' An informal dance will follow. read tour of \The Inspector-Gen- from an exclusive corner, seemed The Union College Newman Club 2. Under his tutelage the Union safety, and interest._ Any_ suc_h JUh~- ----o---- era!' during :;pring vacation, which convinced that his noble enthus- was recently inducted into the Na- freshman elevens in 1932 and 1933 iors who wish classtficatton tn t ts established a new American record tiona! Federation of Newman Clubs. were undefeated. class or wish to ·be deferred until Finalists Selected of nine performances for this Gogol iasrn saved the day. \This is the goal we have all been June 19-!2 should submit to the lo~al For Prize Debate classic, \'The Inspector-General\ Is Houghton Carries On striving for,\ commented President His Ba<Sketba.JI Record board, in support of his request, a :;cheduled for· another performance. Edward DeFeo, \and its realization In basketball, Union's varsity letter from the Dean stating that R mane· 'a h ev t bee '11 d t In the largesi tryouts for the The Mountebanks are giving a spe- o mg u s ' ow e · n WI mean a new an better future earns coached by Nitchman won the registrant is in e:ood standing · 1 f. · conft\ned lar·gely to the actr\vt\tr\es of for th 1 b \ 56 d 1 t 55 ~- Go<>drich - Duane Extemporaneous eta per orrnance of one of the most e c u · an os games in eight sea- is about to be admitted to t-he sen- Prize Debate contest in recent ;·uccessful scenes of the play, Act the Rev. Herbert Houghton, whose It wa:; decided to affiliate the :;~n..- .. The best season was in 193 4- ior year, and is showing promise in n•ars. four finalists were selected II, Scence r. for the benefit of the courting of Miss Mary Gulnac has Union club with the National Fed- ~o ~rth 13 victories and 2 losses. his preparation for professional iJ,. the committee of judges after Faculty Women's Club, at the been reduced to mid-Victorian for- eration just before spring vacation. Durmg the two seasons he coach- work in a field essential to Na- \ malt\tv Th h not bee n A d · · d f h :ong deliberation. The four finalists Mountebanks Theatre, on Friday • · ey ave n ear n a mtssron fee of six dollars ~ res man basketball before tak- tional Defense. are: Edgat· Fi>her, . 42 : Robert Fre- afternoon at 3:30 o'clock. each other for days, remaining on which was received by contribu- m~ over the varsity reins. his Class II-A Dt>fE>rment lick .• 41 ; Raymond Male. · 4 1; and The part of the play that will be shouting-terms since T-hursday. On tions from the members was neces- qumtets won 9 and lost 2 contest-S The memorandum from the Selec- Roger D. Marshall, '41. shown to the Faculty Women is the other hand, another of our earn- sary for entrance. and the 1931-32 yearling quintet tive service Headquarters states The judges were Dr. Douglas w. the popular Inn Scence, which in- pus ruees, \Felito\ Gonzalez, who Partial election of next year's of- was undefeated. -that this occupational deferment Cam;Jbell, assistant professor of volves the characters of Hlesto- t·esented at first not being rushed fleers were held at the regular Nitchman al:;o coached the fresh- for those in Class II-A will not ex- Government and faculty adviser to ltorv, played by Donald Houghton, into the Club by chairman Clowe meeting last Tuesday evening. man baseball team, and rang up an ceed six months but that such c!e- the Philomathean Society; Dr. '43; W-aiier. played by Joseph A. was quoted Monday as saying he Thomas Doyle was elected Presi- undefeated season in 1932 ferment may be renewed from time Frederick L. Bronner, associate pro- Heaney, '42; Dobshinsky and Bob- preferred to enjoy at any cost his dent, while Frank Simboli was _While an undergradu~te here, to time if the Local Board finds fessor of History; and Mr. Henry shinsky, played by :r--.orman Fenster, \Life liberty, and the pursuit of chosen Vice-President. The offices Nttchman. earned nine varsity let- that extension is justified. A. Baker. instructor in Sociology. '43, and Stanley Green, '43. respec- happy girls.\ of Secretary, Treasurer, and Re- ters, playmg three years each 011 The .enrollment of the new 21- The final:; >vill be held on Wed- tively; The Mayor, by J. C. Alberts, Visiting has -been reduced to a porter have yet to be voted upon the varsity baseball, football and yeat-olds at Union is expected to be nerday evening in Silliman Hall at '44; and Oslp, by A. Durston Dodge, mrmmum. Cautious faculty mem- and will be elected at the next baske~ball teams. He began his far Jess fot·midable than the task 8:00 o'clock. The general :;ubject '44. bers especially have skirted the re- meeting, coachmg careet\ in 1931 as mentor of registration that took place last of the debate will -be posted on the The rcene takes place in the im- treat carefully. Frigid glances of -----o---- of the freshman basketball and October. The numbers involved bulletin board of the Old Chapel p·:JVerished Inn room of Hlestokov, suspicion have thus far bt>en the Outing Club Plans football team:; at Union. are smailer, the registration rna- this evening, while the specific beginning with the conversation be- order of the week. L t S F Like Nitchman, Arthur C. Law- t 0 · HI k a e pring unct·•ons renee is t\ chinery has been tested, and it.s topic will be posted there tomorrow ween srp, esto ov's servant According to Monsieur Henri Me- a na tve of Schenectady. operation is generally familiar. Of at 5 p.m. The contestants will have and a moronic waiter. The comedy Mahon, maitre d'hotel, t-he food has He ~a~ the center of Purdue Uni- 1 . · h d h D An active first week of May will verstt•• s natr\ II k more immediate consequence, how- -until 8 p.m. to prepare any materinl c rmax J!' reac e . w en obshin- been \a.ppetissant et suffisant\. The \ ona Y nown football k 1 . t . h complete this year's Outing Club teams in 1932 d ever. to Union undergr-aduates at·e for the debate. The debate will be s y, ts enmg at t e door, falls first floor boarders are e-rateful for an 33, and played th h th bl 1 · ~ program, it was announced todae baseball for th B ·z ·proposals pending in Congress to in the !\ound-lable style, inaugu- roug e venera e porta. the private and excellent services \ . . e ot ermaliers. He E t f by Frederic Wyatt, facult,.· advi;or. Jmned the u · alter the draft ages. rated last year for the first time x ra per ormances seem to have of Hale House, the loune:e chairs, 0 \ : mon football coach- b ~ n Saturday, May 3, the club will mg staff · 193 As a transition toward adopting for the Goodl\ich-Duane debate. eeome a habit with the Mounte- cakes and courtesies of Mrs. Fox t 111 4 as varsity line b ravel to North Creek for an all- coach u d El the European plan of universal Two prizes will be gi,:en. There ans for, in add-ition to this year's and the supplies of food and light d 11 er liott Hatfield and . a:~-· hike. The organization's an- ~ucceeded N\t h compulsory military training for is a first prize of $30 which was road tour, the current \Inspector- literature which have been converg- 1 - '~ c man as freshman G 1 ' . nua steak roast will be held at football h men automatically as they reach a e::tablished by Mr. James A. Good- enera ' Ehowmg, the Mountebanks ing on them steadily. The'-' have al- I d' coac when Nitchman h d \d d t - • n tan Ladder on Monday evening, stepped up t h d certain age, the American Legion rich of the claEE of 1879. The sec- ave ec1 e o grve an extra per- read\ extended their thanks .to M . 0 · ea football coach • ay 5. That week-end r Prom tn 1936 I dd' · is sponsoring a bill to limit military J and prize of $20 was established by formance of their current produc- Jules Vigllelmo who was respon- w · n a rtwn, Lawrence from 1 d t' \Th M H .. f \bl f th . . eekena), the International Out- 1934 through 1939 was direct service liability to men between 18 01. A exan er Duane of the class I wn, ree en on a orse or st e o~- e~r week-long vacation mg Club Association will meet at the intramural snorto or of and 25. Such a .move would affect lof 1878 several years later. The win-1 Prom Week-end, on Saturday eve- by .electmg htr;t president emeritus. Va::sar College for a conference to 1939 he succeed' .: pro~ram. In all college students as well as some ners' names will be announced on [ ning May 10, making four perform- Fmmal expulsron of James McNulty which Union's club expects to send\[ as varsit hoc~de Duke Neleon prep school members. Prize Day, Satur·d:ay, April 26. ances in all. and Bob Miller, who confessed pre- several representatives. coach. Y Y and baseball

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 15, 1941 ~==~========================~============~========~~============ :plan to-be present at the polling place. This might involve ! publication of the names of candidates for office at some time ; previous to election time. This would be done so that there (fionrnr FuL-~Ili:Il I S77 \.I Cau.<a !'o sa l'arulc . I swi · ~Ienlbffi.Of-ilie- AssOCm,te~.r COileglat~J~;rt:~:::; allll Llbtl iUulut• ul -i!W- iS~~-: kgio.te D1ge:::.t. _____ _ _ _ TtieUffh:hil Itt?W::,p~lp-~t-:-Ur-lllc--~llii~ili~ vf L:n1vu Cu,it.·ge. l'ul.JI1~Ih:d Tuc~­ J.uy atH.l l•'riday:s thruuehvu~ the ~\jllt_·~c )_.:c~\-a'-'l.cc--~----=--.---:--­ Ellitorinl Rooms, SillilliHll Hall. t..:ntuu L'\Jllt'g~ l...'.:unpu.::;. '1\:lcidtut~t.:, ~::khenect·ady, 4-Ulo:;. Pllblie:iltlou OffiCe,- rrhe U~lZt:tt't:-Pl·;'::~-J~l-:Sta-t~--~:a, ::5'-:ilt'llt.·~..·tady, :-.;. Y., Telephone ·1·41!1 Entered a-t the ~ch~ucctatly Pu=--l ofi'ict~ a~ --:::h:L·ot.~l-ch~~).'l:lll :\'l:litt7. SUbf:><.:riptTOu··-iJrtl:t: .l<'lW~utti ~J. ~ulJY; -.$3~uu- t~ ~::Ztl -,-tid,\ t..>lt.:d t.L·Ia)'\\ !1~:-~ in the United Stat\~· Senior· Boanl Armand \'. Fl'igen!Jaum ........................... Et!it0r-in-Chief h,qq ~t .:.\n lf~~u~t:-- 1-7;.;;.;1 Laskar ~chwartz ............................... Busines;; 1\Ianager Kapp~1. :\'u ll·•u:-~...-- 1-i:J:Jl Solomon Blechman .............................. Managing Editor 5 ).Tiddlt.~ ;--\p.._·tlull. S11l til l'ollt.·gc-ti-~I~Liti Samuel Portnuy .................................. Associate Editor f..;_:q•J•H :\'H li•·U:-.t.~ l-7;;;_H Jonathan P.earson ................... , .............. Sports Editor :---:11.!·w.l I-'tti t'l:t' t,_··- -1- c~:..:1 J . .Donald Haig·ll ....... , ..................... Citculation Manager l'!ti l1t-lta Tilt l,t lluu~ ... ~ 1-1~·11 ----- ------·---·-. Robert Hayner Jtmior Board Thomas .Q'·Connor Gram;ct· Tripp Sophomort> Buard Harvey Fishbone Thomas Cullen, \Villiam Hart, Albert Kronicl,, Edward Johm;on, Arthur Pastore, Seymour Thicltman Bu.~in<'ss Staff Justin Perl~tein Josl'ph Jaycox Stamey Greenstein Melville 1.1ess~nger David Rosenblum REPRESENTED F'OR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers RePresentative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN Fn:ANCISCO Issue t;dito•· .......................................... Boh Ha;\'nPI' As;,istants Jack scr.ulz Sc•ymour Thickmun \Villiam Hart 1 1 may be full time afforded students to consider names of stu- 1 dents nominated, so that they may not be faced with the I necessity for making a choice of names on a ballot seen for . the first time during the short period of minutes in which I the election must take place. This might involve publication, along with the names, .of the activities of these men nomin- ! ated so that there would be no opportunity for a claim of lack 1 of knowledge as to who were the men whose names appeared on the ballot. A student govemment system, to represent and expect in- .1 te1·est from those whom it represents, must be based both OH nomi11ation and ·election that are direct as possible, and upon 1 representation that is as adequate a:s possible. A student govemment system, to approximate the demo- cratic process, must be based on full confidence that the elective gToup-the student body-be sufficiently capable to name all those men who will represent it and form its policy. Systems involving indirect means not only remove student govemment farther and farther from realities of democratic govel'llment, but also deny the capability of elective IJody. In the lig-ht of intl'oductory suggestion on an important and pertinent campus question, we place this problem before the student body. ------------------------------- Publishers Accept Mrs. Coffin's New Boo/~ Clark Explains Wo~rk With li~ght Reaction of Animals To Sources of light Is Biologist's Task Dr. Leonatd B. Clark, .of the Bi- ology Department, has recently de- veloped an apparatus with which he hopes to determine the effect of light in the visible spectrum upon animal life. \A light of high intensity, free from infra-red and ultra-violet rays,\ said Dr. Clark, \is procluced by means of this a:pparatus. Great intensities are necessary in execu- ting this experiment, for we know from experience that light rays of ordinary strength have no .affect, if they are free from infra-red or ul- tra-violet radiation. Description of Apparatus \The apparatus wol'ks in the fol- lowing manner. A 1500 watt bulb is placed at the focus of a para- bolic mirror so that light rays strik- ing that mirror will be reflected back parallel to each other. These r·eflected rays strike another para- bolic mir r·or, and are brought to- gether at the focus of the second mirror. A test tube containing the animals selected for observation placed at this focus will be struck by most of the light rays emitted ih,e INQLIIRING • • ~ Mrs. Car aline Coffin, wife of by the bulb. A series of filters is Professor Harrison C. Coffin, is also included in the apparatus to the author of a new mu!'der mys- eliminate the infra-red and ultra- tery book entitled \The Mare's violet rays. The first of these is a Nest\ soon to be published. glass water jac-ket which is placed D The StOI'V iS laid OH ~ \tUd fan,. between the two mirl'Ol'S SO that m one or tne valley\ -~·tside light rays from the bulb pass Baltimore. The story attempts to through it upon reflection from be both a puzzle and a nov-:;i Mcs. the first mirror. The lid of the Coffin said. water jacket is curved inward and Student Council Changes Mis. Coffin was amazel at the filled with copper chlol'ide. The · speed which the book, l1er first, combination of these two filters The Inquiring Reporter submrt- ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:_;;;;;..;;..;;_;::;:_;;;;;::; .. ~-=-::::=~~:;:-::=~:-:;:-:;:_::_;:_~=::=--:;:-:::_:;: __ ;::_-:_:;:~-:::-_-::_::_::_::.::_ .. ::_:::;:;;;;;;;~ tPd tlw following two questions :~; :~~!f.!~di~;ht~~~~~li~~~~r~! ~~~;~~~:s i:d~~~\~~.lyb~ i 0 ! t~eeco~~ Tue~day, Apt il 15, 19-ll bast>d upon today's \Concordiensis\ • · · . k t 1 . th t t t b t>dit{)rial advocating changt>s in the Rinehart contest and received water JaC e enc osmg ' e es u e STUDENT GOVERNMENT TO BE MORE DEMOCRATIC Ever;r student at L'nion is prepming for active participa- tion in the democi·atic process of the nation. This prelJal'Htion calls for theoretical training through curricular courses im- plemented with practice to lJe gained in student govemment. It is imperative, therefore that student g-overnment be repre- sentative of the democratic proce~s. honorable mention. of animals is included to malte the elE>ctive proc!'edings of the Student filtration complete. Water coming Cmmcil to rl\presentative members s h E from this second jacket flows ofl~~o c: .. ~~cilbelieve that nomina- op omore xams through another bottle enclosing a test tube of the same kind of ani- tions for class rE>presE>ntatives made mals. by the student COlUlCil should be Begt\n. Tom.orrow Dr. Clark became interested in ojJPil instt>ad· of st\crE>t should be published and should allow the this problem while workjng in the tropics. He noticed that strong sun- m~>mbers of the class at le.ast a day Tests. in Three Parts light killed certain worms, and or two for rt\flection upon how wished to determine how other ani- thP.Y will vote'.\ To Be Held ··n Chem\rcal mals would .t·eact under similar 2. no you believe that the stu- A d E L b circumstances. dent body president pic!ted from n ngineering a s tlw s~>ven senior membPrs of the a--- council should be elected by popu- To the members of the Class of NOTICE SENIORS Jar vote of the whole student bod:y 1943: instead of by the members of the The National Cooperative Sopho- councU'? more Examinations ·for the class of Clait>n<'e McCain: 1943 will be held Wednesday and \I believe that it is a good idea Thursday, Apl'il 16 and 17. They re- to publicize nominations. The sec- quire three sessions, the first .begin- a choice of names must he made once a \'ea1· on a ballot seen ond question seems to me to be of ning M 8 a. m. on Wednesday, the f 1 f' · d · h h · d f · · 1 · h dubious value since the elected second at 8 a. m. on Thursday, and or t le ll'St time lll'lllg t e 8 ort pel'IO 0 mmutes 1ll W l!C class representatives would be call- the third at 2 p. m. on Thursday. There has been gTowing student comment at C'nion that student govemment on the campus lms certain deficiencies that prevent it either fl'Om being training in the democratic process or from being representative of student body interest. This comment point~ out that student go\'emmcnt cannot be close to the student bod,\· with elections of such a nature that Tomorrow, April 16, is the last scheduled day to receive orders for Commencement announcements and programs. The committee, Arnold Rathlev and Cecil Angell, will be in the Student Activities Office after chapel and in the afternoon from 1:30 to 4:00 p.m. b I I d t b d I tl iors\ gin with A and .go through McCarty CALENDAR Tonight 7:45 p. m.-Classical Club Meet- ing. James C. ·Cooper, '41, \The Life and· Musical Career of George Gershwin. Home of Prof. George D. Kei'logg. Tomorrow 8 a. m.-12 noon-Sophomore Tests. 10 a. m.-Daily Assembly. James Ullman, '41, spealter·. Memorial Chapel. 3:30-5:30 p.m.-Glee Club Rehear- sal, Hanna Hall. 5-6 p. tn.-Public Speaking Class. Old Chapel. 8 p. m.-Dr. Benjamin Boss, Di- rector· of the Dudley Observa- tory. Lecture: \The Sun and Her Family\. Old .Chapel Soci- ety of Engineers of Eastern New York. Speaker, Prof. .Schwartz, R. P. I., \Cosmetics\. Electrical .Engineering La:b. Room 22. Thursday 8 a. m.-12 noon-Sophomore Test- ing Program. 'LO a. m.-Daily Assembly. Pro- fessor Richarcl D. Weeks, \Pub- lic Service in a Democracy as Illustratecl in some Union Col- lege Graduates.\ Memoria 1 Chapel. 7:30 p. m.-Faculty Men's Club Meeting, Faculty Lounge, Hale House. Friday 10 a.m.-Daily Assembly. Dr. El- mer A. Tidmarsh. Memorial Chapel. PLACEMENT BUREAU .ro the Goncordiensis: The employment outlook for sen- iors is quite promising this year. Already several have accepted posi- tions. There are others, however, who have no definite commitments. The Placement Bureau would ap- preciate having word from the men with jobs in order that all effort may be concentrated to aid those remaining. Fred Wyatt DENTISTRY The field of ctentis.try offers to college students an auractlve =- reer. It Pl'ovides a worthy intellec- tual ehallenge, a life <>f professicmal service with sath;Iactory inc.ome, and an opportunity for rese.'lreh and teac\'hing in this divisiou of me<Hea] seienc-e and art. The Vniversity of Penmsylvania hn..s prepraretl more than ~ix thou~ sand graduates \vho ar~ ut:cupyillg position:; of importam·e in the pro- fession throughout the world. Hs t•ourse of instruetiron i:-:;. of the high- t>::-t order Anyone intNestecl in this Ill'ooes- sion as a life worl' is invited to ap- J>ly fur further information to Tlte llf'au of the St'ltool of Dentl•try Gul\'ersity of Pennsyh·a.nia ~OUt & Spt-uee Streets Philaclelphin, Pn. an election must take place. It points out that student gov-, ed upon to elect one of seven sen- Sophomores whose last names be- ernment cannot .. e c ose to t 1e stu en o Y w 1en 1ere are ,Jan;t>s Twining: (formt\r nwmbt>r) will report to room 22 of the Elec- secret nominations, when all the men \\'hose names appear on \l certamly agree that nomina- trical Engineering Laboratory. All the ballot are not known at least bv activit v to the voters ~ions s~ould not be secret. A w11;it- other-s will report to ·room 201 of After a stiff bout ' ~ • ' mg· penod of two days after nomm- the Chemical Laboratory. as a whole, and attendance at electiOns cannot be prepared ations would not allow fraternities All sophomores are required to for since the times of these elections are not previouslY to anange deals. I dou~t if can_di- •take the examinations. The results · dates could get acquamted wtth will become ·a part of the college known to the great majority of the student body. It points everybody but I believe it would record of each student. A fee will out that student govemment cannot be representative of in- give everybody time to thinlt it be charged for .taking the examina- ovPr. tions at any later date. terest or of the realities of the democratic process when stu- \In the case of the student body After the papers are scored, each dent g-overnment is taken so fm· from the student body that president the student body would student will receive a pro·file on chose the one member of the coun- which he may see how his own per- it cannot even elect the chairman of its student government ell they wanted.\ formance compares with students and its repi·esentative-the Student Council chairman-who I Paul Mara: in other colleges as well as with . • . I \The first idea seems to me to be members of his own class at Union. IS elected md1rectly now. very good. I don't think that the This will provide him an opportun- After consultation with several of the campus' student stud?nt .council meant to. keep the ity to estimate both his strengths . . nommat10ns secret. I don t see any and weaknesses. leaders and mterested members of the faculty, we have reason why they should be. Students need not bring pemil or drawn up a set of suo·gestions for partial solution uf these \I suppose that ditect st~dent paper, as the machine scoring an- , \ . >·ote for the student body ·president swer sheets and electrographic pen- prob_lems. C ndoubtedl~· other students Will have further sug-1 would. cut down p_olitical factio~s. cils will be used. gestwns to offer· otn·s are presented merely 'lS an attempt 1 I don t see anythmg wrong w1th Students not oniy need not but • • • ' ~ c the idea. However the majority of should not attempt to prepare for to Imtiate the mo\·ement toward these suggestiOns: the council are men re-elected year these examinations. Thefr chief 1. Since the president of the Student Bodv and chairman afte1· year and they know the sen- purpose is to measure one's store of ~ . . • . iors they vote for as student body per·manent knowledge, not a tern- of the Student Council Is the leadel' and representative of all head. They know which of the can- porary amount which might be campus government and its policy fo1·mation, he should be didates are worlters and which sit gained from an intensive review . • . . back. ThPy know what each man immediately preceding the examin- elected direct!~· by the student body at large. Th1s electiOn is capable o.f.\ ations. c. F. GARIS, Dean might be effected by means of an election bv the student The Inquiling Reporter ?ere ask- 1 • • · . • . ed :Mara If he did not belteve that t10ns for class representatives made body as a whole With the candidates to he the seven semors- the student body might well quiz by the student council should be to-be elected as thev have been in the past. Since the secre- their representatives or tha.t a open in .. tead of secret in order to • . . man's record in the council would acquaint students earlier with the tary and treasurer of the Student Council are more directly come out in discussion. Mara an- men up for election. In the past office1·s of the Council and less directlv policv formino· arrents swered: members were elected who were • • • • \\ <=> \The student body might well chosen mainly for their popularity and representatives of the campus at large, the,\· should be quiz their representatives. The plan on the campus. This plan would elected by the Student Council. might work. It wouldn't hurt to gi':e the student time to think . . . try.\ twice and probably pick a better 2. Smce the fmternity and neutral l'epresentatlves of the Harry Crosby: man. Student Council are the direct representatives of their respec- \It is a step in improving a sys- \I do not believe the student · 1 h · · · l · . tern which is certainly poor. The council president should be chosen t1ve c asses, t en· nornmatwn and e ectwn should be brought first point, while it is all ·right and by the student body. The student as close to those cht~ses as is possi,ble. This involves open, is a fa~tor does not seem to me to council who elects the President th tl . t · t' It · 1 t · l . . be .too Important. are the representatives of the stu- ra er 1an SeCl e ll0111llla IOU. l11lg 1 111VO Ve nommat10n \The election of a student body dent body and should be able to wholly or in part from among· the class itself, rather than by head by the whole campus i~ a pick a man easier as usually they all St d t C '] 0 •• f tl 1· d' . l . 'b I good step. Of the two questiOns know the men who arc eligible for a Sl11c U en OUllCI ..,1 OUp 0 le C dSS ll ect ~ a OVe. t advocated this is by far the impor- election bette!' than the student might involve, as Harry Cro~by has sug·gested, a distinction tant one. body as a group.\ made between neutral and fratemity vote1·s. ne·~~r~r~~~~i~ 1 .;etode:e~~~~~~sa~dli~~~ W!~~!~~~~c:~~::;; co-ordinator of Since a democratic system based on direct representation ternity voting to flaternity candi- \I think there ls a possibility that · '1 b d d t 1 t' f ·1 T tl dates.\ there could be an improvement in · IS necessar1 y · ase on a equa e e ec IVe ac1 1 Ies, 1ere Alfrt>d A. l{nopf, Jr.: the system of nominations and elec- should be full knowledge of time of election and nomination \I have nothing to say.\ tions, I am not sure that this :pro- . t th t d t b d . ff' . t t' I 11 Emlt>n T. Hutchins: posal is the final answer. It is given O e .S U en · 0 Y ll1 ~U IC!en 1111e so t Jat a may \I do believe that the nomina- worthy of consideration.\ YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY When you lift an ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola to your lips, you can taste its quality and feel its refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola. Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, Inc. I D II s da ti 1 011 F1 Bi of ne· m~ cu· fj.Jj on He M~ go sh• m< by co· ca th mi F.r st< fo: ca on G1 ga dil Ur af Be de ·he a ah UJ: kc pi: sc clc \ec pr in Of O·f ra st T1 h< it cc gc ar ea w. m th tn ec fe in UI sl se 6- Si· tt hi Ia B bi w cl fi D fi Ia oJ pi m tl h' c

et- of of as a! ear. ver, nts. ap- tt to \<II h· Jl- ry • THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 15, 1941 Page Three Lacrosse 'New Deal' Off On Right Foot as Tufts Bows Dutchmen Wallop In Winning First Since Triumphing Jumboes, Opening '37 1n 9-3 ~ T\ I ' Several Posts 1 t Still Vacant Start On Golf T ea·m Twenty-three Cubs Report to Ciampa For Frosh Baseball Intramural Softball Campaign Afternoon Started Rolling This ------v Cub Lacrosse Team Numerically Strong Openers Incomplete At Concordy Deadline Nine Games This Week UJ}iOJ~'s \new deal\ in lacrosse became an actuality Satur- day as the Dutchmen won theh· opening game fol' the first time since 1937, trimmiNg the Jumboes of Tufts College, 9-3, on Library field. The win got the new 1·egime of Co-Coaches Fred Wyatt and Joe Paul off on the right foot. They succeed Bill Harkness and are endeavoring to improve on the record of last year's ten which won two of eight matches. Only Nine Candidates For Squad as Opener With Panthers Nears Twenty-three freshmen reported last week for Columbia AI Ciampa'o yearling baseball team. Besides sending them on a fast. r~mp t around big Graduate Council Fwld, If numbers mean anything, the IntramUtal softball sea~un go Ciampa walloped towering fly balls freshman lacrosse team h; going underwa~· this afternoon with to the squad and :,taged a limbering to be \hot stuff.\ Twenty-eight can- three games, which were still in up drill of light throwing. didates have reported to Coaches progres10 as \The Concord\)·'' went Four or five more lads with links Fred Wyatt and Joe Paul and at :to press. The 64-game, three league QXperience would be welcomed with Became of the condition of Alex- least eight of them ~how a lot of season wa~ inaugurated as Kappa open arms by Captain Howie Matt ander Field, no games have been promise. Alpha met Delta Phi, Sigma Phi and Coach Bob Cox of the varsity scheduled for the freshman nine Deerfield Academy will furnish , took on Psi Upsilon and Sigma Chi golf team. They would be almost as- this s·pring. Many of the neophytes the opposition for the Cubs when matched errors with Theta Delta sured of starting berths in the first Interested in the national game, they inaugurate their :;eason here. Chi. Victims of a hard-checking Gar- • net defense, the Tufts stickmen =============== managed to get off only three ac- cm·ate shots aH af.ter noon, All three fi.Jtered into the nets for scores, one ,passing Co-Captain Dud Holmes and two going thi ough Bob Marshall, Holmes successor in the goal. Tufts got off several other shots, but they were wide of the mark. Union took 33 shots and made nine. FoUI·teen were stopped by the Tufts goalie. Union Controls Play During most of .the game, Union contr·olled the ball. The Dutchmen carried the play into Tufts' half of the field during 35:20 of the 60 minutes of the game. Sophomore F.red Wikoff was far and away the star of the occasion for Union. The former All-Baltimore scholastic ace caged four goals and made assists on two others. Co-Ca.plain Jack Guibert played an alert tactical ga:me and pushed In two goals, as did Ronnie Ostrander. It was Ostrander who hauled Union ahead in the first period after Tufts had taken a 1-0 lead on Bob Mitchell's shot in 2:25. Ostran- der knotted the score at 4:22 when ·he beat Corman, Tufts goalie, with a fast shot. Then he put Union ahead when he .tallied on a foi!ow- up of an unsuccessful shot by Wi- koff in 12:03. Frank England, who played a polished game at center, scored again 32 seconds before the close of the first period and Union led, 3-1. Tufts ·smprist\d Tufts was tremendously sur- prised, for it had come here expect- ing victory. ln8tead it discovere~ opposition which was equal to that o.f Hobart. The Jumboes' coach rated Union on a par with the out- standing Hobart ten, which ·beat Tufts, 9-1, on Friday. But if Tufts thought that Union had shot its bolt in the first period, it was mistaken. The Wyatt-Paul combination went on to fire two goals in each o.f the second, third and fourth periods to win with ease. Bob ::Vlitchell, fleet Tufts attack, was one of the most outstanding men in the game. He scored all thi ee of his team's goals and was the only Jumbo who really present- ed a problem to the Garnet de- fensemen. Following his first goal in the opening period, he subsided until the third period, when he slammed in two tallies within 25 seconds to pull the visitors up to 6-3. After that, he fortunately s.ub- sided once mm e. :Some reasons for this quietness can be found in the hard-checking defense of Bob Mol- loy, Dick Balch, Bob Newton. and BO'b Nothacker who turned In a brilliant performance. Lafayette Beware! Every man on the Union bench was used, lteeping the scorers busy checking the lineup. When they had finally finished, they .found that 25 Dutchmen had paraded onto the field. Lafayette University plays the lacrossers here Saturday. Bobby Molloy's devastating blo~k of a speeding Tufts attacl1er will probably be remembered longer 'bY many of the spectators than will the score of the game. Asked for his opinion of the block, ~ootball Coach AI Ciampa shook his head (Continued on Page 4) Free Delivery Phone 4-7 445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUR MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction 11 • All-Star Array Tackles Varsity Stickmen Here Fresh from Saturday's triumph over Tufts, the varsity lacrosse squad will face tough opposition tomorrow afternoon at 4:15 o'clock when it meets a squad which will boast >our All-Amer- ican lacrosse stars, plus the out- standing members of this year's yearling club. Coaches Fred Wyatt and Joe Paul will brf'ak a few sticks with their pupils in this star-studded fracas. Another \coach Ben 1\ol<'Clur!' of Albany, All-American at St. John's University in 1930- 31, will also play. He is assi~t­ ing Coaches W~·att and Paul m tutcring this yt\ar's varsity. The t\x-St. JGhn's luminary crosst\d sticks with Wyatt when the lat- te-r was starring for Union a few yt\ai'S back. Rounding out the all-Ameri- cans will bP Bill Dobbin, Hobart College's outstanding lacrosse star last season. It was Dobbin who rPferePd Saturday's tilt with Tufts. Vince Smith, who playt•d som!' fine lacrosse with Union's 1938 dub, will also bt\ in the stai·ting lineup facing the varsity ten. Varsity Nine Plays Freshmen Tomorrow eight. were greatly pleased when the ath- April 26. Among those showing Nine more games are scheduled Only nine men, three of them letic department announced that most promise are Ed Akerly, Jack 'this week, They will be played on letter-holders, have .repo!'ted for spring drills would ·be staged for Ba·rton, Johnny Clowe, Bob Haigh, three diamonds, one of which is on the go!.: squad. Since eight men are freshmen. Garret Jessen, Karl K!ai·man, Dan . the Nott street field, while the needed for each match, all can- Though they'll play no regular Rapelje, Vince Ryan, Bruno ·other two are on Graduate Council dictates are virtually certain of games, the cubs will engage in ~·eg- Schulze, and \Dap\ Will. Field. Until April 28, all games will some competition. Candidates will ular practices and may ·be furn·Jsh- Other candidates for the squad start at 12:40 o'clock. On that date still be tried out. ing opposition for the varsity i.n include George Baskou,, Dimi Kappa Nu will tan~le with Kappa Exactly two weeks from today practice tilts before the season IS Calogirou, Bruce Clements, Ma!'Ve Alpha in the fir,:;t of 1::; twilight the golfers open their season by out. Ciampa will make a large cut Cramer, Bill Easterly, Tom Cullen, games. entertaining the strong Middlebury in candidates this week. Curtis Fuller, Charley Gould, Bob Diamond No. 1 is located in the team on the Mohawk Golf Club Candidates reporting last week !Cimmey, Judd Grey, Ted Gre~·. Bob rear of the Phi Delta Theta HousE', fairways. The visitors are reputed were Ed Allen, Cliff Platt, Bruce Horstmann, Harry Lord, Harry while No. 2 Is at the ~ide of the to have a stronger team than they Burns, Stew Sheehy. Junius Ste- McMahon, PaU1 Myers, Willard Delta Phi House. Field No. 3 is sit- usually do and will present a se- phenson, Ed Beargeon, Steve Parker, Harry Schultz, Bill Sears, uated on what i~ wmetimeB jok- rious obstacle. Six othei· matches Clarke Ken Maney, Dick Macken- Wladyslaw Sokolowski. ingly referred to at the Nott Street are carded for the Coxmen, three · zie, AI Rinaldi, Charley Caputo, ---o athletic Jield. Schedule for the of them away. AU home matches Arnold Rasso, Jim McNulty, Paul h week: will be played on the Mohawk Myers, Bob Kimmey, Don Niles, Wyatt Gets Post Wit Wednesday course. Bill Hill, Bob Smolka, Seymour . Locrosse Assoc\•at\•on . Beta Theta Pi vs. NeutJ·als Dmd 2. Captain Matt, \Bo\ King, and Thickman, Clark <Tiger) Alberts, Delta Chi vs. North College Dmd. 1. Jim Pinkston are the ,lettermdenJ left Johnny Clowe, and Sherry Greiner. Newlv _ appoi'nted cha·I'rman of . Kappa Sigma vs. Phi Sigma Delta over from last years squa ·. oe J Mudge, another candida:te, won his Though he hasn't been working publicity for the Intercollegiate La- Dmd. 3. \aUa\ as a sophomore and will with them long enough to get a real crosse Association is Fred Wyatt, Thursday probably be one of the team's main- line on his best men, Ciampa has co-coach with Joe Paul of Union's Alpha Delta Phi vs. Delta Upsilon stays. Other candidates are Gerald already noted a scarcity of pitch- varsity stickmen. . Dmd. 3. Peterson, Andy Kay, Jack Me- ers. Included in the cast of can- Wyatt's assistants include Thorn- Chi Psi vs. Phi Sigma Kappa Elfresh, Madison Mitchell, and Bob didates is Arnold Rasso, brother as Dent, a graduate of Dartmouth, ' Dmd. 1. Acker. of AI, the varsity outfielder. who will serve for New England; South College vs. Alpha Phi Delta So Long, N e l s - Union Appreciatesl By JACK PEARSON ,.,-------------- \Union never fully appreciated spend long hours interpreting them Nels,\ sighed one of his football to young men whose minds were stars last night when he heard the too often elsewhere. Joseph Julien of Rutgers, who rep- . Dmd. 2. resents the Maryland. district; S. Friday A. Middleton of the University of Pennsylvania, who repreEents Penn- Kappa Nu vs. Neutrals Dmd. 1. sylvania; Leon Miller of C.C.N.Y:, Phi Gamma Delta vs. :<orth College who wiU serve for the Metropoh- Dmd. 2. tan area; Harry J. Rockafeller, a ·Phi Delta Theta vs. Phi Sigma Del- Rutgers alumnus who represents ta Dmd. 3. New Jersey, and Roy Simmons, ;:::==============; Syracuse University lacrosse coach, serving the North Central district. ----o Intramural Notice DeWITT•s LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM news that the head coach was leav- They may also recall the Satur- ing his alma mater to coach the day afternoons in the fall when Students will get a chance to see White Mules of Colby College .. football programs were twisted by the varsity baseball team in action Maybe the sta:. was right. 'J a man who paced the ground be- at home this season after all. But when fall rolls around and hind the Union bench, dictating to Though they'll still play no inter- the bark of the quarterback again~ attentive managers with notebooks. collegiate games here, the varsity echoes from the terrace of Alexan- They will t•ecall modest talks at tossers will tangle the freshmen in der Field, Union will miss a man. It Friday night pep rallies when, in a practice tilt tomorrow afternoon may not miss a coach, for another the light of a bonfire a handsome on Graduate Council Field. will be carrying on where Nels young man in a reversible and a Roger Moran is expected to be used to. But Union will have lost hat that was pushed back on his the starting pitcher for the var- the quality of a personality which 1 head told students. that their team Entries for the horseshoe tourna- 1 ment are due at the gymnasium to- · morrow. We Serve Beter Food for Better Health 118-120 JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall PINE GROVE: DAIRY, INC. si~llis~~~~~lpro~~~it~e~~a~~~llid~~~~~d~~~h~t~i~n~g~~=m=o~r~ro~w~.·-·~A=n~d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Milte Fiester, also of the varsity, Few undergraduates rememb~r i they always were. who is being JoanPd to Al Ciampa's • Nel~ as a player, for they were m '---- 61 ER!E BOULEVARD PHONE 4-7741 yearlings for the occasion. Moran knee pants when he was ~ ~tar. has developed into one of the best They can, :aowever, VISIOn the hurlers Union has seen in some time when a battered blackboard, year<. long . forgotten will be gathe.ring Coach Art Lawrence wiil prob- dust I~ a cor~er of the gy~nasmm. ably use his regular lineup with On dthtis adn mten~toe_ly tser 1 I?US mand Frank Jones catching, Don Quigley use o raw m r1ca e mes an · on first, Ned Reilly at second, Co- Captain \Mickey\ Rathlev at short- LANGE & RAPP s.top, \Whitey\ Carnwright on third and Hank Wysocki or Earl Raif- stanger and AI Rasso and Co-Cap- tain \Tiny\ Weintraub in the out- field. The freshman lineup is still uncertain. IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State Street -Our Service is Ideal --Just Try One Haircut GAZETTE PHARMACY \Service for the Sick\ Ideal Friendship Gifts Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE ST. PRESS Printers • . ~·llllllllllll.lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll:j - - = = ~ Have you tasted . . . ~ 5 § - - - - - - ~ DOBLER ~ - - - - - N - : P. 0.. . :: - - - - - - - - - - s BEER and ALE : 6,E tilmjJI6 New.s TO TH£ R£SCU£ W HEN Mother Nature goes berserk, and whole towns are cut off from electric power, that's when repair crews go into sudden action to find the break and fix it. In the past power companies have had transformers mounted on small trailers to be rushed to location to restore power. ~ow General Electric has announced a complete- ly factory-built rooo-kva mobile substation, first of its type. This unit, mounted on a huge trailer, can be towed along at 40 miles an hour. It can take power from high-voltage lines of al- most any voltage and transform it to serv- ice values. \Vhen an outage occurs, the substation is whizzed to the spot, parked, grounded, and tied in. It can also be used to by-pass regular substations during repairs or maintenance work. INTRODUCING ••• A I\E\Y champion! The world's largest and most powerful industrial X-ray unit, packing a wallop equivalent to '$go,ooo,ooo worth of radium, is now at work in the General Electric plant at Schenectady. Stronger by 6oo,ooo volts than others in its class, the r,ooo,ooo-volt monster clips down to two minutes the old record of an hour to take a picture through four inches of steel. The machine is housed in a special build- ing, with 14-inch concrete walls plus 12 inches of exterior brick to absorb stray radiations. Another safeguard for X-ray technicians IS the X-ray safety \wrist watch\-a leather case, worn on the wrist, carrying a small piece of unexposed X-ray film. This, when developed at the end of the day, will show up any scattered X-ra- dintion to which the wearer may have been harmfully exposed. General Electric Co., Schenectady, N.Y. GENERAL fl ELECTRI9 . = = 598 B'way- For Better Values . :: :: lh===========-· illlllillllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllir

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 15, 1941 Coordinator Says Draws Enthusiasm Training Program Armsby of EDT Praises. Aid Given by Colleges At Hale House Rally H. H. At msby, field coordinator of the Engi:neering Defense Train- ing courses conducted in 117 col- leges throughout the c0untry under, the auspices of the United States Office of Education, was the prin- cipal speaker Friday night in Hale House at a diBnet\-meeting 0f repre- sentatives of industries in this area and the ·personnel who ate conduct- ing the 16 E. D. T. evening courses for 781 students who have em·olled at Union College. Mr. Armsby and the speal,ers that followed gave evidence that the E. D. T. courses were accom- plishing t-heir major purpose of giv- i·ng training for men and women who wishpd to qualify for supet- visory or technical jobs in indus- tries associated with th<> national defense p1 ogram. Collt>gPs Support Courses Mr. Armsby reported that the en- thusiasm for· this program in which col-leges are cooperating is mm e than matched by the :;upport the actual cot!rses were receiving both by the colleges and the industries benefiting f10m the added training of their ewn or potential personnel He said that 108 of the 117 col- leges have already signified their intention to continue with the pres- ent comses ot· begin a new series aftE'r J-une when the present cla.sses will terminate. Professor Russell A. Hall, chairman of t-he Union Col- lege faculty committee on engineet- ing defense training and director of the E. D. T. program, said that Union College was prepared to give short intensive coUJ·ses during the summer for June's high school graduates, or continue the present eoutses lht·ough September. Mr. Arms-by stressed the partic- ular value of the E. D. T. program for -those smaller industries which have not sufficient personnel to give any \apprentice\ training whatever to their new employees. But even the larger plants, such as General Electric, have made exten- sive use of these courses to assist their employees to qualify for more responsible jobs that le<J uit E\d more training. -----0----- NOTICJ:<; TO l'REMED:S The Association of American Medical Colkge,· Aptitude TE\st will 'be given on May 1, 1941 at 3:00 p.m. in thP Civil Engineering Build- ing, room 106. This is the only time the te$t will be given this year. The test should be taken by all students who expect to apply for entrance to a mPdical >chool by fall of 1942. The test is one of the nor- mal requit·ement> for admi>sion to medical school. A fee of one dollar is required of each student taking the te><t, and must be paid at the time hP registPrs and receive:; his practice sheet. At the time you pay your fee you will receive a practice sheet. You should >tudy these sam- ple test~ until you are thoruughly familiar with the technique. The practice fheet will admit you to the examination, but must be returned to the proctors before receiving he regular examinaion folders. Students should make application immediately to the Dean's Office. Interested i11 Schenectady Inurested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street le'IL·eler 166 JAY STREET JVatc/1 and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General 1 SCIENTIFICALLY SPEAKING B~· ANDREW L. COMREY The development of Liquid Am- .nonia Chemistry has been close!~ associated with the history 01 Limon College, llr. Weyl, a German chemist, first discovered that so- dium and potas:;ium would dissolve m liquid ammonia, but he mls- ta·kenly bci<in·cd -that a reaction OCCU'i'!'ed. In 1S71, Dt. Gharle:; A. :;\eeley, who was graduated 1rom u-nion in 111·17, •proved conclusive!~ that sodium ana potassium 1otmea true solutions without reaction in liquid ammonia, thereby laymg the toundation !·or an important branch ut Chemi:;try. That vr. ::>eele:~-·s In- terests 1n sctence we1e Wlcle::.preau ,:; apparent from lit,; obituary m ·' the l'<ew York Datly Ttibune on N0vember 7, 1892. \Dr. Charies A, Seele)o· died Fri- day at Mt. Vernon. Dr. Seeley was -oorn at .tla-llston, N. Y., Novembet 28, 182ii. He graduated !'1om Umon l.College in ltH\l. He received from nis alma mater, in 1878, the honor- dty degree ot Ph.D. He was a·p- Burton PaynP, '41, Pxamines Dr. Schmidt's liquid t'alorimpter in the Chemistry Building. polntea proi-eBsor ot Chem-istry and -- ------------ J.'oxtcoJogy m .the New :t ork Med- tcat Col'lege of 1859, and resignea .n 18ti2. vvhen the New York col- • ege for Dentistry was incotporated •n 18ti7, he tilled the chair 01 L;hem- •S-lry and !\letallurgy. He was the dutnor of more than twenty pape1s, !\ead before learned societies, on subjects relating to the physical ,;ciences. Two editions of a worl' ot Dr. Seeley·s on photogra·phy wete published in this counny and the .vork was rt'published in England. Dr. Seeley was a member ot the Lyceum of Natmal History, and was one of the first to aavocate that the society adopt the more dis- tinctive name, Academy of Sci- ences. He was a ·member of the Association for the Advancement of Science and Art, and was fDl' many years chakman of the Chem- ical Section of the Academy, and a life member of the American Insti- tute. \Dr . .Seeley made many inven- tions, for which paten•ts were granted in t-he United States, ·Great Btitain, France, Germany and Rus- sia. Among his inventions we1·e a process for making carbolic soap, a process fot pt·eserving wood, a pro- cess for making grape sugar and a process for making hop extract and the machine1y used in the process. Many of Dr. Seeley's inventions were in the line of electrical appli- ances. \Dr. Seeley v.as employed as a chemical expert in patent litiga- tions from 1865 to the time of his 1 etirement in 1886. He was :<everal time,; employed in cases of alleged poisoning. \Dt·. Seeley man :ed in 1863, Miss Caroline A. Boltwood, of Amhet·st, Mass. Two sons and a daughter SUIVive him.\ Dr. -c. A. Kraus of Brown Univer- sity next took up the work, and did much to advance the :;cience, -both by his own research and -by inspir- ing his students to wot k in this field. One of those students was Dr. Frederic C. Schmidt, who com- pleted his doctor's research at Bt·own in 1928. Since Dt·. Kraus's death, Dr. Schmidt has been carry- ing on the Work of Liquid Am- monia Chemistry. Much of his work has been in colla'bmation with Union students, and this year he is working with Bur-ton Payne, '41. \At pl'esent,\ said Dr, Schmidt \we are measuring the heat evolved by certain metals as they go into solution in liquid ammonia. Fot this purpose, we use a calorimeter, formet·Iy belonging to Dr. K~aus. which has -been modified and im- proved. The mechanism of the ap- patatus is essentially this: \Ammonia is pumped into a tube until a specific amount condenses, due to the low temperature of a jacket of liquid ammonia surround- ing the tube. This quantity of li- quid ammon-ia is vaporized and passed -over into a caloti-meter where H is recondensed, coveting a glass vial of the metal to be tested. When the glass vial is broken, the metal dissolves, and evolves enough heat to vaporize some of the liquid ammonia and to raise the temper- ature of -that w:hich remains. By determining the volume of am- monia obtained by vaporization, and the temperature rise of the li- quid ammonia temaining, the total number of calmies given off a.s the metal goes into solution may .be calculated.\ After obtaining sufficient data upon heats of solution, Dr. Schmidt intends to extend his research to heats of reactions, that is, to meas- ure the heat evolved by various re- actions which occur in liquid am- monia. \Eventually said Dr. Schrr.idt, \I would like to write a book er,titled 'Thermo-Chemistry of Liquid Am- monia', but it will ptoba·bly be twenty yeats before I can collect sufficient data.\ SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper, One Step frorr State Stree1 ····~ ,. PHONE 4-5614 Unquestionably Favored! Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY J. S. HANDELMAN QUALITY GROCERIES and MEATS Fresh Fruits and Vegetables Daily Fresh Butter and Eggs FREE DELIVERY Phone 6-6016 920 State St. Ice Cream Corp. : ~--------------~~----------------------------------~ SCENE Quoth ••• The Raver FuJI Day 'Scene quotes the following •from the -column \Quot-h ... '!:'he Raver\ in the \Rutgers Targum\ to make One of the most hec-tic days we've· up for a-ny deficiencies of this col- heatd of in a long time was put in umB. Says columnist Dick KleiBer: t ecently -by Mrs. Fox and seven Lacrosse Team Wins Opener From Tufts <Continued from Page 3) negatively \Not so good,\ he said, explaining that \ThM guy shouldn't have been able to get up!\ Coach Wy-att agreed with \Champ.\ Union undergrad-uates. The group ' \F!.•eshmen like cards. Yes, fresh- found time to drive down to New :men play cards, but they play like Yorl{, attend an art show and. sheep. They gambol, and ,then are. 0pera, have dinner and return ve1·y often fleeced. And frequently try to early next morning. pull the wool over -their father's Sabotage and revolution crop-ped 1:1p at the game as Bob Caswell, pint-sized assistant manager, -put up a violent squawk when asked by Coach Wyatt to carry water to -the players ·during a time-out period. \I hate 'em!\ shrieked Caswell in tones of unpt ecedented emotion. Paul Best, Ed Fliegel, Buddy eyes by taking it on the la:rnb. Shaw and Ted and Judd Grey, all · \Last yeat' the freshmen invented Glee Club members, packed into a noble way of combining studies Mrs. Fox's and Shaw's car and !specifically eccmomics) with sports t:aced for the city. In New York !specifically trac·k). They'd .gaily they attended a private exhibition· dash alongside the Raritan, and of early American paintings at' when, their Eco prof appeared Charles Woolsey Lyon's galleries, they'd yell, \Look prof, we're act- heard the annual Holy Week per- ing out a tun on the ·banks.\ fo-rmance of \Parsi-fal\ at the Metro- politan Opera, enjoyed a delicious ''Which reminds us, somewhat uinnet· togethet and then raced far-fetchedly we admit, that the back to Schenectady. only similarity between brokers in Summary of the game follows: Union- Pos. .Tufts- Guibert ........ I. H. .......... Miller Wi 1 koft' .... , ... O.H .... , , . . Kenney Ostrander ...... 1A ........ Mitchell Santee ......... 2A .......... Ganey a panic and the Phatoah's daughter Library L.awn is that they both save a little England ........ C ............ Ayer Balch .......... 10 .... , . McKenzie 10 a, m, April 10-Doctor Fox prophet from they rushes on the aslis all students ·and especially the banl,s,\ Nothacl,er ...... 2D .. ,.,, ..... Quinn Newton ......... P. . . . . . .. Hazleton noon hour bll!seball players to stay oft the library Held so that the turf may rPturn to the state it was last summer. 12:30-2 p. m.-Baseball players re- frain from playing on the field. 4 p. m.-The- Lamossp team wear- ing cleats, tear up the turf in an hour far more than the noon day baseball players could in two weeks • AP.other Prom Cancellation The April 2 issue of \The Clark- son Integrator\ in a bold face ex- tm sa~·s: \Cecil Golly's Prom date in Potsdam has been cancelled owing to an extended· hotel engage- ment in Columbus, Ohio.\ The bul- letin is headlined \Golly Tears Up Prom Contract\ . Humor Out of the Exchanges \The Niagara Index\ relates .the sad stmy of the l-ad who had ex- ceeded his allowance and wrote home for money to go to a tea dance. It seems t·hut his parents had a perv£>rse sense of humor or maybe they knew their tea dances, but anyway they sent by retutn mail-a pound of tea. Right, Too! Don't get killed unless necessary; your usefulness to the state comes to an end when that occurs. -\Plattsburgh Manual\ 12th Edition, 1918 F 0 R RECORDS GET YOUR CAR IN TRIM FOR TRIP HOME DOUW F. BEEKMAN 60 I UNION STREET Open Until 11 P. M. You owe yourself a bottle If you don't know a11d how gloriously good beer can be. Incorporated PHONES: Enterpdse 9875 Albany 4-5411 Troy 44 The Lee-ding Distributors * Ward .......... C.P ...... Bournazos IUeiner explains the ptms as the Holmes · · · · · · · · ·G.· · · · · · · · Gorman product of spl'ing. Scene is tired, Score by periods: too, and that springlike feeling Union ....... , ........ 3 2 2 2-9 maliPS the column want to loll on Tufts ................. 1 @ 2 0-3 thP ehah·s Mrs. Fox has give-n Old- F' t · W . h h 'd u·s perwd-Mitchell, cTJ, 2:25; g~·m. Is s e givP the rest of Ostrander, CU), 4:22; Ostrander, the d-orms some. The Nott Te1•race girls are out. !U), 12:03; England, (U), 14:28. Second period-Wikoff, (lJ), 17:16; Guibert, (U), 20:31. ----0--- Dr. Johnson ir:l Searc·h Of College Poetry Third period-Wikoff, !Ul, 2:41; Mitchell, (T), 8:19; Mitchell, (T), 8:44; Wilwff, CUJ, 40:48. Fourth period-Guibert, (U), 26:- Dr. Burges Johnson, of the Eng- 09; Wikoff, (U), 28:49. !ish Department, is attempting to , Saves-By Gorma:n, !T), 14; put out an edition containing poetry Holmes, CU), 0; Marshall, CU), 0. of Union. Contributions are need- Substitutions (Union) - Panoff, ed. Any works of a poetical nature Griffith, Macomber, Enstice, Clowe, by Union men will be heartily ap- Corby, Dwyer, Molloy, Weed, Timp- preciated. You can submit them to son, Marshall, Bedell, Thurston, Gil- either Dr. Johnson or to E. w. s. more; CTt:ftsl-Cieary, Blackburn, Hull at the K:appa Alpha Lodge. Leggat, Shedd, Bush, Lundigan. Put your name and address on the Officials - Townsend, judge of copies and they will be returned. play; Dobbin, referee. ICE CREAM DAIRY PRODUCTS WM. GREEN JR. DAI:RY 1701 Union St. Tel. 3-2161 Call Ball ~~b~il/3er; -·. , {!/' and - L . Cf!i:£ PHONE 6-3456 · Cleaners (. & Dv<!t\\S Ball Will Call •',' ),· ... · : i- ,. ! .· .. r·· •- i ' r.:: .. . t .·,. ''-.> tastes good ••• costs \itt\e and swe\\ iun to cbew- tbat's DOUBlEM\Nl GUM . delicious DOUBLEMlNT Y es chew1ng ,. 1 r. at sports I wel J.Un ••• GUM is always s whue you're b t een classes, . t events, e w MINT'S real~nnn studying. DOUBLE taste and helps ilavot xeheshes you:h And enjoying sweeten Y?u: br~:u; helps brighten smooth che'Wlng . d to your budget. youi teeth, too. Kln day So drop in Gxeat to enjoy eve:rykage~ of DOUBLE· and buy several pac MINT GuM today.

ms said, oach pped put by the rio d. 11 in fts- chell uinn 2-9 0-3 <TJ, 26:- 14; noff, owe, imp- Gil- of s 1 'I •' Tax Committee's Problem The Student Tax Committee wiH be faced with more than its usual share of problems when it comes to make up the activities budget for the next academic year. The several activities that are and will be malting up their budgets during the next weelts are naturally requesting either a sum that is the same as they ha·ve ·re- ceived previously, or one that is slightly in advance of this figure. The Tax Committee, however, wiU have a sum for a!Iocation among t~e activities that will be appre- Ciably less than in past years. The ·problem that is presented is: \Should there be a 'vertical' slash: that is, should a certain amount bo cut from each of the fourteen ac- tivities accounts; or should there be a choice made between activities with amounts necessary for their full operation allocated to some while little or no allocation be mad~ to others. The latter alternative may well be the type of choice that we wH! be called upon to malte frequently if, as has been reliably predicted, college enrollment throughout the country taltes a significant drop for the next academic year. Worthwhile Meeting Members of Dr. O'Rourke's \State and Local Government\ class agree that one of the values of last night's conference with Queens Col- lege to all who took part was its viewpoint toward state government help in resolving the differences in between up-state and down-state New Yorlt. The active clash of ·be- liefs that made it impossible during the two hours of the lively discus- sion for the two groups to reconcile their differences shows clearly the problem of reconciling up-staters and down-staters whether in consti- tutional convention, legislature, or anywhere else. For the \State and Local\ students it was a valuable lesson. Much of the credit for keeping the discussion on an even !tee! dur- _ing the evening must go to Student Chairman Raymond T. Male. Male, '41, ably put into practice the tech- niques of discussion that had been developed by the Philomathean Society. Last night's meeting demon- strated clearly the value that is to be gained from an exchange of viewpoints between students from one college and students from an- other. Cooperative Dance The Glee Club concert-dance is gradually developing into the first cooperative \all-college\ dance that the campus has seen in many years. If all fraternities .follow the lead of the ten that had signed up by last night, and neutral financial support is secured, then the campus will be furnished one of the best small affairs that could possibly be con- ceived-at a cost that is unbeliev- al:>ly low. It will be at last possible, when the plan is accepted by all frater- nities and neutral groups, for a stu- dent to attend a college dance merely by .presenting his athletic card. There need be no concen- trated ticket drives, or competition with other .campus functions that come later. The Glee Club dance will resolve Itself into the type of affair that anyone can attend, with a minimum of cost, and with no more than a sensible amount of work that has to be done ·by the committee in charge. Campus cooperation can make the event one of the most worth- while that has taken place here. Union Ratings Two illustrations of the rating that Union holds in science and its applied branches came to our atten- tion this weelt. The first was the recapitulation of the results of last year's sopho- more testing program by Dr. Ligon in Tuesday's chapel. These results showed the high ratings that the present Union juniors made in com- petition with the cream of the na- tion's colleges in such fields as mathematics and ·science. The Union students rated high in the ninetieth percentile in each case. Second example was the letter re- ceived by Dr. Er•nst Berg from Harvard's school of engineering, which is printed in this issue of the Concordy. The letter. from one of the best graduate schools of engi- neering in the United States show- ed the readiness with which Har- vard will accept for entrance or scholarship a student of engineer- ing at Union who has been recom- mended by Dr. Berg. Such readi- ness-even eagerness-is unusual for so fine a graduate school to demonstrate. • • SlS Z-511 Vol. LXIV., No. 47 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1941 I ROUNDTABLE DELEGATES Council Revises His Bed Aloft on Chimney, Macomber Below On Floor Mingled in d·iscussion are here shown the delegates of Queens col- lege and those of Union College in the third annual State and local government forum. The Queens students were accompanied by their faculty adviser, Dr. John Meng, of the political science department. Dr. Vernon O'Rourke is the advisor oi tho Union group. Raymond Male of the class of 1941 is here setting the tone of the discussion of reapportionment in New York state. Tho discussions and debates will last the entire weekend, with a trip to Albany, and conference with the governor the feature of the affair. There were sixteen Queens Col- lege representatives in attendance last night, having driven from New Yorlt City. The guests included, (not all shown above) Murray Low- enthal, Julian Feldman, Grace O'Rourke, Helene Cohn, Esther Richman, Virginia Doyle, Lucille Small, Christine Quinby, Harriet Hanellin, Gordon Brookes, Howard Rosenbaum, Ruth Kromberg, Rob- ert Feeley and Herbert Dunning. Queens And Union Hold Roundtabie Under Ray Male On Reapportionment Downstaters from Queens Col- e•--------- -------- lege and upstaters from Union S I k R failed to reach a conclusion upon aws y esigns reapportionment other than it would little change the political For Defense Duty tatus quo of the state at their joint roundtable in the Hale House Lounge last night. 1 Old Constituti,on Joint Social Function Dates to Permit Dance Suggested to Group The Student Council established a committee to co-ordinate the dates of campus social functions and nominated men for next year's council representatives in its meet- ing Wednesday nig·ht. The Coun- cil's constitution was changed so that, in the elections for members of the executive committee, only fraternity men will vote for the fra- ternity member and only neutrals will vote for the neutral member. At the same meeting, President Dickinson E. Giiffith, Jr., an- nounced that he had appointed Avery Beer. '42, as senior member of next year's student tax commit- tee, and Granger Tripp, '43, as sec- retary of that group. Joseph F. Furlong, Jr., '42, secretary of the pi esent tax committee, is auto- matically advanced to the chair- manship of next year's group. The Council ·piovided for the ap- pointment of the Social Functions Committee by accepting the report of the committee studying the prob- lem of social affairs on the campus. The Social Functions Committee will be elected by the executive committee of the Student Council and will consist of one sophomore, one junior and one senior, who will be elected at the end of the year previous to their term of office. Social Function Dates Ronald :\1acomber failed te •go .throug.h with his boast to sleep on his bed even if it were put on the chimney of South CoHegc last Wednesday night. The boast, made in a ·humorous way, came about at a diseussiorl of the placing of Daniel Kings- land's bed in the middle of libtary field. One or two students threat- ened to talte Macomber's bed from his fourth .floor room and place it on the roof. Macomber made his ,;tatement and went to the movies. The bed went up on the chimney and Macomber went \to bed\ on the floor of his room. Debate Fina:lists End Competition Winners To Be Chosen For Prize Day Awards By Social Studies Field Climaxing a full season of deba- ting, the finals of the Goodrich- Duane Extemporaneous Debate were held in Silliman Hall on Wed· nesday evening. The winners will be announced at the Prize Day Exercises on April 26. The contest- ants were Raymond Male, '41; Roger D. Marshall, '41; Robert Fre- Iiclr, '41; and Edgar Fisher, '42. The specific subject o.f the cebate was \The Implication for American Democracy of President Roosevelt's Executive Order Establishing the The action In regard to the co- Office of Price Administration and The resignation of Dr. Zaka I. ordination of the dates of social Civilian Supply,\ In accordance Slawsky, instructor in physics since functions followed close on the with the round-table technique This morning the Queens group the a~\u ptr'o f d f d t' b h' h d -- m n o e ense u re~ y heels of the Concordiensis cam- w 1c was utilize in the debate. r · 0 as a • paign for more, and ·better man- the subJect was brol,en down into met with leaders in state govern- Professor Pete I W Id I t f II · ment in Albany and tonight they was announc d tod b P ·d t h e ay Y res1 en aged, informal campus dances. t ree sub-topics. The first one will meet with Profes~:or O'Rourke's D' R F D Sl k t ~xon yan ox., . r. . aws y, oo, Wednescay's report, which was sub- dealt with the ltind of agency this state and local class in a discus- w 11 ac t t th u s I · cep a poSJ Jon, m e . . mitted by Granger Tripp, · 4 3 Ken- office is, in terms of the kinds of ~~~n d~~e~~~~e and local cooperati:m Naval Ordnance Department. neth Shar·pe, • 43 and 'George 'weed things it is authorized to do. The Dr. Sl~wf~~·· ~ . gr~duate of '43, provided th~t this Social Func~ I second sub-topic was related to how Sixtee? Queens ~ollegians arri:'- R.P.I, Will JOm his twm ?!'Other 1 tions Committee should act a.s an this agency fits into the scheme of ed at e_Jght last mght after . a s1x ?-t the ~nd of the a~adem1c year advisory committee to the gi·oup in national defense, while the third hour trd1p from New d~otrlt C1ty by 1 1tnh Wt abshfmgtotn 1 t_o conhtmue ~ ~areer charge of the Freshman Dance. and divisional aspect concerned the im- ca~ an were 1mme 1a ely enter-~ a. e ore a rrr:g t _e pos~t10n at should urge \Student Council spon- plications for Amer.ican Democracy tame_d by the state and local class Um~n had be.en rdentrcal Vl\lth that sorship of a dance to replace the in the establishment of this agency at ?mner. The roundtable, led by of h1s _brothel. . Glee Club Dance\ in the years as part of the defense program. Ra~ mond T. Male, followed. , Pres1~ent Fox said today: when that is not held. The judges for the debate were It Is w1th much regret that we ac- Tha new Social Functions Com- Dr. Frecericlt L. B10nner, associate Four Topics cept the resignation of Dr. Zaka mittee will have the power to select professor of History; Mr. Henry A Four topics were outlined and Slawsky, Instruc~or in Ph~sics, w~o 1 the dates for the •sophomore and Baker, instructor in Sociology; and covered in the general di<c.ussion at the end of this academrc year IS freshman dances, the Glee Club Mr. Joseph Rotundo, instructor in The group coru:idered \Rural and to take up full Hme work in -the 1 dance in the years when it is held, Economics, who. is on leave of ab- Urban Representation in New Naval_ Ordnance La~orato.ry in and other campus social events. sence. Dr. Campbell, assistant pro- York State Today\ with its baclr-•, Washmgton, D. C. J:?uung h1s year The 1 eport stipulates that \these fessor of government and faculty ground of past struggles and pres- on the staff of Umon College he dates shall be selected with consid· adviser of the Philomathean Soci- ent attempts at reapportionment, has e~tered. with. compete?ce a;nd eration of the needs and desires of' ety, was chairman of the debate. \Results of Failure to Reappor- enthus!8sm mto hrs. academic .duttes the sponsoring group.\ tion,\ \Possible Consequences of and made warm fr1ends of h1s stu- Reporting on the research car- Praist\ hy Dr. Campbt>ll Reapportionment\ and the \De- dents and colleagues. ried on in connection with its study At the conclusion of the debate sirability of Reapportionment\ and Dr. Slaws.Jry came to the college of campus social af.fairs the com- Dr. Campbell congratulated the its consequent effect on democratic in place of his twin brother, Dr. mittee said that Dean 'Gar·is had participants for their excellent pres- government. Milton Slawslty, who had accepted agreed to have the dates of the entation and discussion of the sub- The di8cusslon developed into a batt'e between the New Yorkers who felt that a complete reappor- tionment would bring them needed social, health and educational leg- islation. Their claims were denied by the upstaters who asked if New York did not already have these \improvements\ and pointed out that their cost might far outweigh their benefits by ariving taxpayers from the state and increasing an already heavy tRx load. Repeated'ly the Queens students asked \why are you afraid of reapportion- ment?\ The Union delegation felt that should a united New York City gain control of both houses they might force unwanted sociai and tax legislation on the rest of the state. Agree on Hom<' Rule Just before the discussion ended both groups gareed> that it would be impos.sible for· New Yorlt City to unite politically so that the city might have its reapportionment without its effect being felt. Ray- mond T. Aldrich, '42, who led the group opposed to reapportionment agreed with the Queens leaders that home rule might solve New York City's problems. Those attending from Queens in- cluded: Murray Lowenthal, Julian Feldman, Grace O'Rourke, Helene Cohn, Esther Richman, Sam Rich- man, Virginia Doyie, Lucille Small, Christine Quinby, Harriet Hanellin, Gordon Brookes, Howard Rosen- baum, Ruth Kromberg, Robert Feeley and Herbert Dunning. They were accompanied by their faculty. advisor, Dr. John Meng of the Political Science Department. appointment but at the last mo- freshman and sophomore dances in- ject. He said, \This evening's pei- ment felt that he mu•t respond eluded in the calendar in the col- formance has demonstrated the ~o the Government's call to worlt lege catalogue, piovided they are I utility and validity of round-table m the Naval OrdJ1~~c-~ ~aborato~~-~\\~~<?ontinued on Page 4J I discussions.\ Fire Sweeps Festival Prop Shed; Attracts Students T'O Performance Itt the first part of the discussion there was disagreement on the part of one participant as to the full power invested in this new Office of Price Administration. He con- tended that there was no evidence By THOMAS O'CONNOR +---- to support the conclusion that the Probably the last audience that dressed in dlnner jackets with government would attempt •to die- the Mohawk Drama Festival stage black ties. They were seen stand- tate to Industries Involved In pro- w '!! Io k d th d 1 • duction for national defense. He 1 o own upon ga ere ast mg politely by, and malting sage nl 'ght t 't th · f th · · cited the example of the railroads · · o WI ness e razmg o e crrtJcisms concerning the perform- properties shed at the rear of the ance of the fine and the brave fire and the steel industry. He indicated stage. The fire, which played be- laddies giving their all to put down that the government would not at- fore an audience of over half the the mighty blaze. tempt to involve itself fully ·because College d t I t WI transportation is involved in the an many ownspeop e, a - 1en the fire truck first arrived, tracted . by the bl 1 t 1 d th f steel industry, and that the two aze, .comp e e y e- e lames were reaching the tops molished the shed and its contents. of the trees behind the stage. The are interwoven and complementary. (Standing room only!) men tried in vain to put it out with He doubted greatly that any execu- The cause of the blaze, according the small amount of water and tive or administrative dictation or to the amateur fire-fighters over- chemicals from the engine. They coercion would come at the present r · th time or in the near futu·r·e ·Unless a unnmg e campus, was spontan· nad to give this up as a bad job. eous combustion caused by the The next move was to couple a state of national e·mergency were close packing of 'furniture and huge .fire hose to the hydrant near declared and that more powers other stage implements including the chemistry building. When their were given to the executive. paint and probably a few oily rags sacond entrance was made, it was It was pointed out that this bu- that had been left lying about since accompanied by cheers and good reau wH! be enabled to fit in very last summer. natured hurrahs. The now enthus- well with the other offices created One of the main features of the iastic audience even went so far as by executive order, since its rune- evening was the appearance of Dr. to help carry the hose to the fire- tlon would depend upon the oper- Dixon Ryan Fox in somewhat the ridden area. ation and results of these other same role as Mayor LaGuardia- According to the Schenectady offices such as the Office of Pto· minus the fireman's hat. His only Fire Department, the call was tele- duction Management. audible comment was that ,there phoned by some woman who shout- Dissention occurred in the discus- was nothing in the building. At ed hysterically that the Delta Phi sion of its implications for Amer- this, some ragged urchins who had house was on fire. The identity of ican Democracy. It was contended been gazing at him with rapt at- the person who spread these false that this type of controlled econ- tention, pointed at him shouting to rumors is as yet unknown. omy was an indictment of our all the world that \that man\ said The entire company turned in a American System and of Democ- there was nothing there to burn. sparkling performance, but we racy. On the other band it was Perhaps the most thrilling scene thinlt that the honors ought to ao stated that it is of much signifi- of the whole show was the atrival to the star performer of the e;e.[eance that emergency powers can of the first-nighters, all neatly 1 ning-the fire. (Continued on Page 4) PRICE FIVE CENTS Baker, Clowe Lead Senior, Sophomo;re Classes Next Year Furlong, Dorsman, Morrison, Fill Other Senior Positions Robert K Baker was re-elected to the presidency of the Senior Cla~s at the regular elections held during DaH~· Assembly on Wed- nesday morning. He succeeds him- self to the ofice which he has held during his fre~hman and junior yean;. Also elected on Wednesday as the other officers of the class were Jo5eph F. Furlong, vice-pre>i- dent; Abi·aham Dor:;;man, secre- tary, and Angus Morrison, treas- urer. Balter, a member of the Chi Psi fraternity, is· a re,;ident of Albany, where he prepared for Union at the Albany Academy. While here he has gained considerable ac- claim as an athlete, participating in both football and hockey. His out- standing work in both sports has earned him the captaincy of each for next year. He ha;; served on the Student Council and is a mem- ber of the Garnet Key Society. Fm·Iong, Dorsman Furlong, from New York City, the new vice-president, has always been active in campus activities. He has been a member of the Stu- dent Council for the past two years, >lerved as Secretary of the Student Tax Committee this year, and will automatically become Chairman of that important group next fall. He played fre.shman baseball, and has been consistently mentioned on the Dean's List· He is a Beta Theta Pi. Dorsman is a day-student from Albany, is a neutral, and has been for some time a member of the Stu- dent Council. He played freshma11 football and baseball, and, for the past two years. has been a mem- beJ· of the varsity football .squad. Sophomores Morrison. a mmeber of ~he Kap- pa Alpha fraternity, rs from Wayzata, Minnesota. He has been a Dean's List student, and has been active in both varsity swimming and varsity track, holding a Block \U\ for a record-breaking perfor- mance in the former sport. He also served on the Sophomore Dance Committee last year. Elected officers of next year's sophomore class of 1944 were: John L. Clowe of 1266 Garner Avenue president; Karl Klarman of 75i Eastern Avenue, vice-president; Douglas DeWeese, of 235 Robinson Street, secretary; and J. Robert La- Pann of Glens Falls, treasurer. Clowe succeeds himself as presi- dent of the class of 1944 and is a member of Delta Upsilon fraternity. A graduate. of Nott Terrace high school, he is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Harold L. Clowe. of Schenec- tady. Klarman, son of Michael A. Klar- man of Schenectady, graduated from Nott Terrace and was quar- terback of the Union freshman football squad. DeWeese, LaPaillll A member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, DeWeese was vice-presi- dent of his class during the fresh- man year• and played end on fhe freshman football team. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Epaminondas DeWeese of Schenectady. He grad- uated from Mont Pleasant high school. ~older of an open scholarship at Umon, LaPann has been on the D?an's list since his entry at Union. He _won the discus throw in the 1940 mtramural track meet. A grad- ;rate of Glens Falls high school, he IS the son of Joseph E. LaPann of Glens Falls. Dickinson E. Griffith, president of tb~ Student Body, announced last m.ght that election of Student Council representatives fo·r next ye_ar will be held at Daily Assem- blles next Tuesday, Wednesday and Thur~day, for the Classes of 1944 1943, and 1942, respectively. '

Page Two illnuror ~i.ruats FouNDED 1877 \:l Causa Per sa Parole :l ssai\ Member of the Assooiated Coll~grate .Pres::; an<l di~tributur of the Co•- legiate Dtgest. The offlctal newsvaper of the students of U 111011 Cull~ge. Published Tue;;- day and l•'ridays throughout the college year. EditoriAl Rooms, Silliman HllH, Uniun-=c~'o:.,ll'e_g_e-,.C~'a_n_lp_u,_,s-. -'-;T~e\le\'pc-;1:-:lo:::nc::-e, ~chenectady, 4-0133. Publication Office, The Llazette Pre,;,;, 334 ::>tate St., Schenectady, N. Y., Telephoue 4-4141 Ei'ilereu at the l:;chenectady Post Uffice ao; 8ecoud Cia:,-,; :\!ail :.\latter. Subscription prtce Five cents a copy; $3.00 a ~·ear; delivered a·uywhere in the United States. Senior Board Armand V. Feigenbaum. _ ........ _ ............... , Editor-in-Chief Kappa :-;u lluuseo-4-7331 Laslm.r Schwartz ...... , ...........•............ Business Manager Kappa :O.:u !louS&--1-7331 Solomon Bleohma.n ................... _ ..... - .... Managing Editor 5 ~lirldle :o;PCtiou, Sorth Culleger-U-99ti6 Samuel Portn'Oy ................... _ .............. Associate Editor Kappa :O.:u Ileus'- 4-7331 Jonatha.n Pears1>n ............... __ ..... _ ........... Sports Editor ::ilgrua I 'hi l'iaee--4-ti~21 J. Donald Haig-h ....................... , ..... Circulation Manager !'hi Delta 'l'hcta Jlouse-4-1244 Junior &ard Robert Hayner Thomas O'Connor Harvey Fishbone Jac.k Schulz Grange>r Tr·ipp Norman Fox, Staff Photographer Sophomore Board Thomas Cullen, William Hart, Albert Kronick, Edward Johnson, Arthur Pastore, Seymour Thickrnan Bw;iness Staff Justin Perlstein Joseph Jaycox Stanley Greenstein Melville Messenger David Rosenblum .-BPftllt91!NT&D PO\ NATIONAL. AOVIUtTUiiNQ IIY National Advertising Service, Inc. CIJ/Itre Publisbtrs Re./1f'elml4tive 420 MADISON AVE, NEW YORK, N, Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON 1 LOS AfiGIL&I ' SAJI FltAIICIICO Issue Editor ................ , .... , . , ............ ThQmas O'Oonnor Assistants Jack Schulz Seymour Thickman Bob Hayner Friday, April t8, 1941 THE IMPROVEMENT OF CAMPUS GOVERNMENT The campus is now in the midst of what might well be called \the elective portion of Union student government.\ Student Councill'epresentatives and officers, Tax Committee members, and class officers have and are being named. This elective process fumishes the life blood fo1· campus government. There has been much student feeling at Union that this all-important process is inadequate in theory and breaks down even more thoroughly in practice. THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1941 r-----------------·---~-------------------------1 i Drama and Art I L-----------------------------------------------J Four events of ai\tistic import quate, but the production will be al·rive in the neighborhood within worth the pocket change it win a week, or\ ::o. On the siXoth, the cost in order to see it. Metropolitan opera wHl .present a Taesday night, the Schenectady performance of Puccini's \La Symphony will present \Hiawatha Boheme,\ with the full taroated the Coleridge-Taylor musical ex- voices ·of the enti·re company giv- travaganza. Three hundred local ing forth smooth ·tones. A special vocalists will sing, as well as three group of students will leave from soloists from New York. Although the campus in a special bus for thiE 0 f slight name and fame, Elwyin special event, but we she!:ll save the Carter, William Hain, and Judith opera for later discuseion. Doniger wiH stand o1:1t di~Unctive- The Civic Players are presenting ly. Of that there wiH be .:;ma:l1 \K·iss the Boys Goodbye,\ on Wed- doubt. It should be worth while to nesday thr:ough Sa:tur·day of next see some four hundred Schenectad- week. The play is a Claire Booth ians giving thei.r all for a.rt, and comedy about a girl who is from expecting applause. A~ least their the S<Juth and ie just dying to get families will be there. Why don't into the m<Jvies, by fa·ir means ~~· you go for the laugrs. ones that are still more fun. Their are plenty of friendly people in the In:;rid Bergman is in \Adam ca:;t, and ~everal amusing situa-!IIa.l r:ur Sons,\ at t.he State .. Th.is tions, which would particu.larly ap-l is t.w only attractrv: mov~e m peal to the colleg.iate mmd. The town this week, ·but th1s film rs ex- acting cannot be more tha·n ade- ceptional. FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE June 1941 <All examinations will be held in Tut>sday, May 27, 9:00 A. M. the gymnasium indicated.) unless othe1·wisE' Monday, 1\Ia:y 19, !1:00 A. M. Biology 21 Chemistry 31 F1ench lOa Latin 1 Physics 11 Psychology 4 Social Studies 21 Socia.J Studies 38 Spanish 1 Streets and Highways Structural Design 2:00P.M. Tuesday, Mal· 20, 9:00 A. M. Biology 1 ·Chemistry 21 Chemistry 22 Comparative Literature Engineering Law <Senior E.E.l Mathematics 11 Physics 1 Psychology 3 Psychology 11 Social Studies 22 Social Studies 50 Thermodynamics c Junior E.E.) 2:00P.M. Wednt>!>day, May 21, 9:00 A. M. Social Studies 10 Background of Modern Lift> German 1 German 2 Meehan ics ! Sophomore) 2:00P.M_ Social Studies 12 Wt>dnesda\Y, May 28, 9:00 A.M • Chemistry 1, 2, 3 Mathematics 21 Psychology 21 Thm·sday, Mal· 29, 9:00 A. l\1. Mr. Lawrt>nce Biology 12 Chemistry 11 English 20 Mathematics 31 Mechanics <Junior) Psychology 12 Social :Studies 23 Water Supply 2:00P.M. Social Studies 2 Friday, Ma;~: 30, 9:00A.M. .Geology LaboratOI'y: Professor Smith Biology 6 Engineezing Law <Senior C. E.) Geology 22 (students will report to Geology Laboratory) German 20 Italian 1 Laboratory !Senior E. E.) Latin 11 Mathematics 22 Physics 31 Campus comment of this nature has circulated for some time with no constmctive action being taken_ A fundamental reason for this lack of constmctive action has been that the discussion has not been based on fact. This factual basis from which a decision on campus government may most effectively be made is available right now-while the elective process is in operation. ! Sophomore) Biology 22 Concrete Electrical Engineering Theory <Junior) English 23 Greek 11 Latin 2 Mathematics 2·1 Physics 2 Physics 3 Physics 23 Social Studies 32 Social Studies 42 .Social Studies 45 Types of Construction Monday, June 2, 9:00 A, M. Biology 11 Chemistry 12 German 22a, ·b Greek 1 Laboratory <Junior E. E.l Physics 2a To help to fumish this material dul'ing the period of these elections, \The Concordiensis\ will carry as complete and thorough an account of those proceedings as possible. We will also print items on the theory behind these elections. Social Studies 39 Social Studies 48 Structures Thursda~·, May 22. 9:{)0 A. M. Background of Modern Life !Junior) Social Studies 31 .Social Studies 37 Social Studies 47 Monday, Jmie 2, 2:00 P. M. Geology 1 The Corn OUT OF 'l.'HE IiM.Rli This year Broadway is ·blessed with wt least four top notch musi- cal plays. Heading the list With both critical and popula:r favor· is the t~ITific \Lady in the Dark\ written by Moss Hart, stat'l'ing Ger- trude Lawrence, and containing a g.rand scm·e by German-hom Kurt Weill and George's ·brother Ira Gershwin. No sooner had the play 0pened than all th·ree of t·he major record companies swung into action. Decca was first. They immediately signed up their leading sophisticate, Hildegarde, and have p·resented her m an eye ar'l'eseng album of songs fr•orn the show. She certainly was a happy choice. Her· renderings oi \This Is New'', \My Ship\ and ''One Life to Live\ are among the best discs that this \dear that made MHlwaukee famous\ has ever done. Cl'ose on the heels of this one came t·he Victm· album featuring the star of the play, Miss Lawrence_ Al- though she can can)' the show beautifuHy, her voice is not quite as .good e.s Hildegarde's, and, as a con- sequence this album suffers by ·Comparison. Then it was Columbia's turn to act and act they did. They pulled out the sm·prise package of the year hy signing up elfish Danny Ka:ye, the play's leading comedian. He records his famous \Tschaikov- slty\ number, \Jenny\, \My .Ship\ and \Princess of Pure DeHght\ in his own ! Shall we say it? Yes, we shall) inimitable way. Others who have chipped in to ma-ke this one of the most recorded scores in moons are Benny Goodman, Eddy Duchin, Leo ReismaR, and Mildred Bailey. JAZZ GEMS In 1936, under the supervision of the English jazz critic Leonard CALENDAR Tonight 6:45 .P- m.-Mt. Holyoke Alumnae Assn. Dinner, Hale House 8:00 P- m.--William L . .Shirer, C. B . .S. reporter in ·GeJmany, Memorial Chapel. Tom1>rrow 10:00 a. m.-Da.ily Assembly, Prof. Philip Stanley, \The Ceremonial of Democracy\. 2:00 P- m. - Va1sity Lacrosse, Union vs. Lafayette at Schenec- tady. 2:00 P- m.-Va·rsity Tennis, Union vs . .Swarthmore -at 'Swarthm01 e. 2: 00 p. m.-Varsity Track, Union vs. Middlebury at Middlebury. Sunday 11:00 a. m. - Sunday Service, Preacher, Rev. Leslie Glenn, Christ Church, Cambridge, Mass. 3: 15-3 :45 p. m. - Empire 'State Town Meeting of the Air, \How Can We Achieve Total Secur- ity\ Old Chapel. 4:00 p. m.-Organ Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel. Monday 1:00 p, m.-Outing Clu.b, Execu- tive Committee Meeting, Mr. Wyatt's Office. 8:00 p. m.-Faculty meeting, Old ·Chapel. Is Green Feather, a group of 1 ecordings were ~or exclusive release in EBgland. made in New York and Chicago These were put on the English Par·l0phone label and were intended to sHmulate interest in American improvi~ed jazz. Decca has now re- issued these rec01ds in an album called \Gems .of Jazz\ and we ·rec- ommend it without hesitation as one of the g·reatest jazz albums ever made. In it are contained such artists as Mildred Bailey singing •her great \Downhearted Blues\ and \Honey- Slw•kle Rose,\ accompanied by Cor- ne !.ius \johnny\ Hodges on alto sax, Teddy Wilson ·on piano, and Bunny Berigan 0n trumpet, al'l p'laying at their best. We rnacy a.lso hear the famous \Honky Tonk Train\ play- ed by its great composer Meade \Lux\ Lewis, and an equally dis- tinguished pianist Jess Stacy d0ing wonderful variations on \The World :Is Waiting for the Sunrise\ accon:- panied by Gene Knipa on drums. We have the rar·e pleasure of hear- ing three great trumpeters Pete Brown, Benny ca.rter, and Bobby Hackett playing on \Twelve Ba·r Stampede\. Bud Freeman is also present to deHght us on both tenor sax and clatinet, making his en- gravings ·Of \The Buzzard\ and \Keep SmiJ.ing at TnlUble\ two of the gt eat est things he's evet· done. If ~ou're not acquainted with jazz -real jazz-there's no time like the .present, and there has seldom been an album like this one. OTHER NEW RI<JCORDS If you admire Harry James' tech- nically per·fect trumpet playing, he's sure to please you with his waxings of \The Flight of the Bum- ble Bee' (didn't you just know he'd get around to that one sooner or later?) and \Camival in Venice\ . . . Gene Krupa's new vocalist Anita O'Day clicl{S on his new \Georgia On My Mind\ ... Listen to \Traumerei\ as played by the Claude Thornhill Orchestra. Really a. grand arrangement. ... Don't you think the Will Bradley band is overdoing things, just a little bit? Their latest is \I Boogied When I Should Have Woogied\. We know it's not a bad recording ,but after all , .• ? ---0--- Hobday Elected Sigma Xi Dr. Augustus H. Fox, secretary, announced today that Robert Hob- day, '41, had been elected with eight other men to an Associate Membership of Sigma Xi at the meeting of the Un·ion Chapter on March 11. Hobday has served as President of the Union Chemical Club. DENTISTRY The field of dentistry offers to f'ollege students an attractive ca- reer. It pro\•ides a worthy intellec- tual l'hallen•ge, a life of professional servi<'e with sali:sfactory income, and an OJtpoot'lunity :!'or research and tea<·•hing in this t!iviHiou of medica] ~x·ienC\e a nll art. Typical of the readily apparent example of portions of cam- pus government that show, when in practice, a need for change has been the nomination and election of class officers. Ridic- ulously small handfuls of men have appeared at nominations for the positions. So few students appeared for sophomore class nominations that the meeting was held on the steps outside of the Old Chapel. Biology 23 Chemistry 23 French 21 German 10 Greell 21 Mathematics Mechanical Design Religion Geology 12 <students will report to the Geology Laboratory) Heat Engines Music Tut>sday, June 3, 9:00 A. M. Social Studies 11 8:00 .p. m.-David L. Cohn, Au- thor and Social Historian, \The Good Old Days.\ No charge to general public. The liniverStity of Penm~y1vanifl h,~;1...o;; Jll'epare!l mut·e than six thou- Franll graduate..<.; vwl1o are ue<'upyillg pcn~itiot1s of importarwe in the pro- fes,.ion throug-hout the world. Its t•nur.se of instl'Ut'Uon i~ of tht_• high- e~t order Anyone itlter·este{l l11 this rwoift_'!4- gion aR a 1 ife work 1~ inviterl to ap- ply fl'l' further info·rmation to Election of class officers has also demonstrated weak- nesses to observers. Nomination and election are held in such rapid succession that few class members know those who have been nominated before the chapel pel'iod during which the election takes place. Few members of the class know the qualifications of all the men whose names appear on the ballot. There is more, too, that observation will show needful of change in campus government. An improvement in the form of campus government is much needed at Union. With experience with the deficiencies in this process still fresh in the minds of the campus in the next few weeks, this improvement could most intelligently be made under the leadership of those men who are being now named as new officers. A definite charge rests upon both the student body as a whole and upon those men whom it selects-or are selected- a.s its leaders. For the student body this charge calls for their support and understanding of the forms of the change needed in student govemment. For the elected officers this charge calls for leadership and planning for changes in a student government system that can only become less and less representative of interest as time goes on. For them this calls for intelligent and impar- tial examination of all proposals for change of the system under which they were elected, with the standard of judge- ment that which \the student body wants.\ Social Studies 28 Social Studies 33 2:00 P, M. P13ychology 1 Friday, May 23, 9:00 A.M. *Elements of Electrical Engi- neering c Sophomore l French French French French 1 2:00P.M. 2 lOb 20b German 5 <Sophomore, .Senior) Mathematics 2 Mathematics 12 Junior, Monday, May 26, 9:00 A. M. Cb,emistry Labora:tory: Head: Professor Herrick: Professor Weelrs; Mr. Hislop English 1 (Professors Herrick's, Weeks' and Mr. Hislop's sec- tions will r·eport to the Chem- istry Laboratory, room 201) English 10 2:00P.M. Biology 2 Building Construction Electrical Engineering (Senior) English 25a, b French 20a Latin 22 Physics 21 Physics 33 Social Studies 27 Sociai Studies 51 Theory ---!--- College Library Lists Latest Books Tuesday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Dr. E. B. Speight, former Dean of Swarthmm e. l :30-3;30 p, m. -Reco!'d Concert, Memorial Chapel. 'fliP IJean of Ule SriiOol of Dentl<try 2 :00 p, m. - Varsity Baseball, New fiction additions to the Col- Union vs. Mass. State at Am- University of Pennsylvania 40th & Spruee Strl'els ~ PltiladeiJ>hia, Pa. lege Library include Van Wyck her·st. Mason's \Stars on the Sea,\ Angela ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ijl Thirkell's \Cheerfulness Breaks· ffi In,\ John Collier's \Presenting Moonshine,\ Jack lams' \The Countess to Boot,\ John Priestley's \Let the People Sing,\ Carson Mc- Culler's \Reflections in a Golden Eye,\ Bradford Smith's \American Quest,\ John Marquand's \H. M- Pulham, Esq.,\ Booth Tarkington's \Heritage of Hatcher Ide,\ Storm Jameson's \Cousin Honore, Eliza- · beth's \Murders in Volume Two,\ Margery Allingham's \Traitor's Purse,\ Gerald Brace's \Light on a : Mountain,\ Dashiell Hammett's \Glass Key\; and Gontran Poncins' •, \Kabloona.\ In the field of biog- : WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING - ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Cor. Barrett Simply Phone 6-9419 raphy recent acquisitions comprise '.fr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A. Davies' \Clive of Plassey,\ Oli- ver Wendell Holmes' \Holmes-Pol- , lock Letters,\ J. Finney's \A Sur- · geon's Life,\ Richard Addington's \Life for Lifes Sake,' and I. Wylie's \My Life with George.\ ---a--- PLACEMENT NOTIOE The United .States Army Aviation Examining Board will be in Albany on April 26th. Seniors interested in careers as flying cadets may get : full information and applications at . the Placement Bureau. ---o--- NOTICE Phi Gamma the pledging of of Ilion, N. Y. Delta announces Edward Smith, 44, PINE GROVE DAIRY. INC. 61 ER!E BOULEVARD Call Ball and Ball Will Call PHONE 4-7741 PHONE 6-3456 te1 its ex Tt o'< sti ffil fa• w of on Ja >tl sh wi m sc te so ro m so g, w m h< at h! it w H 13 S1 a! C< fl t v f t c i 1 l (

ded can re- ec- as ists nny at the lay- dis- orld eat- Bar also en- and of jazz the his he'd r or alist new the band bit? en I with the on as to ca- lec- e. and i<'<tl ... THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1941 Page Three Union Favored Over Lafayette Lacrosse Here Tomorrow ~eoparlds HaveH Bbeaten d.Penn, But'(inderme~-~, 1 , ave · o.st to o .. art an. Stevens ·O• _ T , . Eight New Men Start --~----·······- ----~ pen OmorrOW Court Rules •• For Union Against Vses U(>mote Control At .Middlebury Dark-horse Quakers 1. All players must wear tennis shoes with soft pliable soles 1 Basket baH and other types of shoes are not accepta·ble.J Leok for the var::;ity lacro~se team to hang up victory No, 2 of its home season tomorrow at the expense of Lafayette University. The match will get started at 2 o'clock on Library Field and the stickmen admit that they're not much worried ('>Ver the reeult. I-n fact, Coaches Joe Paul and Fred Wyatt wil'l sta-rt new men in eight of the ten positiens, helding ovet· enly Co-Captains Dud Holme~ and Jack Guibert from last week's >tarting cembination. Last spriNg the Dutchmen made short work of Lafayette's Leopards, winning by a 13-3 score. Any sopho- more kNows that UNion has a far sci appiet· and more experienced team this year than it had a sea- soN ag.o, so why shouldn't tomor- row's score be one for the adding machine? Lafayt>ttP May Bt> Strong Lafayette it>elf may provide the sole reason for not bl'inging in Dr. Berg and his statisticia-ns. Two weeks ago the Leopards upset mighty Pennsylvania, 7-6. They have also ta,ken to using freshmen athletes this year and this may have made a difference. Of course, it might be that Penn is a pt·etty weak sister. She probably is, for Hobart crashed through with a 13-2 triumph over the Leonard ten. Stevens Tech also beat Lafayette. If last Wednesday's exhibition against an all-star array, which contained four former all-Ameri- cans, plus Vince Smith and five freshmen, is any indication of what the varsity may do to Lafayette to- morrow, the score should be high. The va-rsity won that match, 13-2. Details are found elsewhere on this page. However, the Dutch were poor in the ball-handling depart- ment ag-ainst Tufts and may run into trouble if Lafayette's defense does much pressing. Coaches Wyatt and Paul are also a bit worried about their team's strength in the goa1. Tufts was held to only three accurate shots by the hard-check- ing Union defense last Saturday, but all three of those shots got past the Union goalie•. With more experience than Tufts and any kind of luck, Lafayette will send more than three shots at the Union cage tomorrow. Then is when Union had better have a goalie. Holmes Expel'ienced Co-Captain Holmes, who'll start in the nets tomorrow, is an experi- enced goalie and has proved it in two seasons of varsity play. If necessary, he might again rise to the heights he gained in hoclrey season when he stopped 61 Wil- liams shots and about the same number of Army pucks. One goal was scored against him last week. Bob Marshall will be held in re- serve. He al:;o is a competent net- minder, but two shot penetrated his defense in the Tufts match. Five men will be starting their first intercollegiate game for Union tomorrow. They are Charley Clowe, who'll be at point; Ed Eustice, football fullback who'll take over the first defense post; Paul (Scoop) Dwyer, who goes to the center position; Bob Panoff, start- ing at out home, and George (The Boxer> Bedell, second attack. Rounding out the lineup will be Co-Captains Holmes and Guibert, at goal and first attack, t·espective- ly; Big Paul Mara, a regular last year, at counter point; Dick Grif- fith, second defense, and Bob Corby, in home. ---o----- Lop-sided Scores Tell Softball Story Nine softball games had been played in the intramural wheel through yesterday and only two of them came under the heading of close. One saw Sigma Chi over- whelm Theta Delta Ci, 20-0, while South College and Alplla Phi Delta went to the other extreme by battling six innings to a 4-4 tie. Beta Theta Pi and Chi Psi also registered shutouts, beating the Neutrals 15-0, and the Phi Sigma Kappas,' 13-0, respectively, Delt~ Upsilon walloped Alp~ta Delta Pht, 22-3 · Phi Sigma Delta pasted Kap- pa Sigma, 16-1; Delta Chi b~asted North College, 16-2, and Kappa Alpha socked Delta P~i, 11-5. ~ak­ ing the most of two htts and e1ght errors by their opponents, the Sigma Phi hitless wonders tripped Psi Upsilon, 5-4. The losers made five hits. MARVE DWORE Tennis Not at Team Home Mmve Dwot•e's business of man- aging a theater will keep him from watching his tennis team make its debut this afternoon against Haver- ford College at Haverford, Pa. DwOI,e, who is in his first season as varsity court coach, sent off a squad of eight men on the 10:45 tt ain yesterday morning, charging them to bring back two victories when they r-eturned to the campus Sunday. Rumor has it that he'll direct them by remote control. Besides Dwore, the netmen also departed without the services of their captain, Doug Schattan, who is ineligible for out-ofctown matches. Besides that their playing manager, Phil Potter, -who is in charge of the squad, may not see action because of a ,cut hand. Dr. Clowe took two stitches in his left mitt after he had come off unsuc- cessfully in an altei cation with a softball. Though it isn't his racquet- weilding hand, Potter's service may be hampered by the stitches and tape bandages. If they at·e successful today, the Dutchmen still hav-e Swarthmore to face tomorrow at Swarthmore. Since both Havedord and the Qualtei'S have been playing out- doors for several weeks, they'll have a big edge on Union, which hadn't held a single drill outside the gym before it left yesterday. Making the tlip besides Potter were Lee Sherman, .Charley Keeler, who'll probably .play No. 1; Em Hutchins. Clancy Woodward, Le- land Beik, Ken Sharpe, and Ted Vinic It, Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY Featuring Benny Goodman's Orchestra Look at Me Now Lazy River No. 36012 My Sister and I I'm Not Complainin' No. 36022 CASSEDY PIANO CO. 460 State, near Proctors 4-5067 Weakness in Dashes May Spell Downfall For Bill Ketz' Boys With premuniticns of defeat, Coach Bill Ketz will bundle his vai•sity trae·k team off to Middle- bury for its -oppnh1g meet tomor- row. Scmethirrg hP's otill looking for is a t·eally fir>-l rate man for ' t!!P 100 and 220-yat·d dash event.\ in which tl':P P~PthPt'\ ar<' rated strongly. Johnny Lewh is gri;1; to have a h:1rd day, nmning t:,, 220 and 440- ~·ard da, tes and broad jumping be- sides. Long Stan Davis will pl'ob- ab!y lope the half-mile as insur- ance against Miadlebul'y men tak- ing two places behind \Doc\ Or- ton, who has developed amazingly and is a pretty good bet hl' a fir>t Bob Muther and Lewi< will prob- a,bly be the only Union entrants in the 22@, unless Davis i\ elected to gallop that event too, besideE toss- ing the shot. Since Bob Ericson has been dl'opped from the squad, it lcoks like Yahoodi will have to t·un the 100-yard dash. Old, relia,ble \Doc\ Maines will trot the mile with Jim Purdy, a flashy ~ophomore. Easy - going, lanky Charley Sne:J i> slated for the two mile grind along with Wrestler Bob Shepard. Maybe the hurdles will be Union's forte tomorrow. They might well be if Captain Jim Bothwell and Sophomore Bill Will<in live up to their potentialitie~. However, their times haven't been what they might be and Middlebury may take this event. Ned Reilly, hard-hitting juniol' second baseman, has been run- ning his legs off on long hits all spring. Above you see the pride of Beta Theta Pi galloping across home plate after a mighty hit by \Tiny\ Weintraub. Weight men are abundant, if in- experienced, ineligible and incom- petent. In the shot put Ketz has Bundy Shaw, Davis and Stew Gold- blatt lined up and ready to go. All have shown signs of promise, but have yet to live up to all potentiali- ties. Cliff !Bud) Sawyer, ineligible for out-of-town meets, has already come within a half-foot of the col- lege shot put record and will be sorely missed. Good javelin throwers are as scarce as Art Lawrence's. pitchers and Middlebury might crash through in this department. Walt Breed, Ed Keers, Gordie Semerad and \Pat\ Parsons have been hurl- ing the spear and will represent the Dutch tomorrow. In the discus Ketz wHI have Shaw, John Gulnac, Johnny Adamzevich and AI !Steve) Callan. Nine Opens Season I outs on their vacation trip, the I Dutchmen didn't really begin to Tuesday at State poleax the apple until recently. With the regular season's opener Now Ned Reilly, Co-Captain 5lated at M&sachusetts State on \Mickey\ Rathlev, Earl Raifsl'ang- Tue~day, Coach Art Lawrence is er and Co-Ca~tain \Tiny\ Wein- doing some serious thinlting about traub_ are lead_mg. the assault on the varsity baseball problem. He all kmds of pttchmg . . . except held practice games Wednesday that of Roger Moran. and yesterday and may call an- Moran has already won the other for today. opening assignment against Mass- Union's siuggers have finally achusetts State. Pitching fo1· a pre- found their hitting shoes. Though dominantly freshman team Wed- they didn't fall victim to strike- nesday, he held the varsity sluggers F 0 R Arrow Shirts to six hits and won, 3-1. Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 B:kEAD- R6LLS - PASTRY ARROW DOUBLER The Doubler A dual purpose shirt CoLLEGE MEN-HO! • • , you asked for it , •• here it is I A two-way campus-sp01'ts shirt that looks just as well buttoned up with a tie as it does open at the neck without one. Indoors Arrow designed it with classic simplicity. It has a long pointed, low hand AI'row collar with juat the correct flare, 2 pockets, and french seam. 2. Students and Faculty only shall be permitted to use of the ('ourts. 3. Doubles should be played when- ever pos::;ible so a~ to insure use of the courts to the maximl:lm number of players. 4. If persons are waiUng to play, both singles and doubles matches are to be permitted to finish .their set before vacating. In the event that the 8et goes to deuce, play shall stop at once. 5. The tennis courts will clo~e on week-days at 6 p.m. 6. Play on Sunday shall be re- stricted to the hours of 1 p.m. to 5:30 p.m., and all players mu::;t be dressed in a clean white costume. 7. Workmen engaged in repairing or making the cout·ts are to be permitted to complete their task before play can start. 8. The caretaker ~hall be sole judge as to the w:e of the courts after rainy weather, 9. Children of the Faculty Mem- bers shall be permitted the use of the courts if any are vacant but never to the exclusion of the two above named groups. 110. U::;e of the indoor court on the gymnasium will be reserved fot· the varsity squad when inclem- ent weather prohibits theil· prac- tice outdoors. 11. Violators of the above rules will be denied the privilege of using the courts. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUR MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction .. • 598 B'way- For Better Values The Two in One Shirt $2 and $2.50 Fabric is oxfol'd ol' twill flannel • , • both dur· able and Sanforized (fabric shrinkage less than 1%.) Practically two shirts (both comfortable and smart) for the p1·ice of one. In white and solid colors, $2 and $2.50. The Doubler Shirt has two button- Buy this utilital'ian value today. thru pockets and a French seam front. The fabric is oxford or twill flannel . • . both durable and San- forized-Shrunk (shrinkage less than 1%). You'll have practically two comfortable and smart shirts for the price of one. In white and solid colors. $2 and $2.50. Buy this utilitarian value today! NUSBAUM'S ~47-451 STATE! STREET ARROfil/ SHIRTS f.

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1941 Astronomer Talks On New Methods ·Of Studying Stars New Publication Writers Elected A:fred Knopf Jr .. '42, was elect-~ ed Editor of the Idol Magazine while Phili.p Lan6tT, 42, was chosen Editor of the Freshman Record at the Publications Board election meeting Wedne~day aft- ernoon. The other results of the meeting were the appointments of a new staff of officers for the Idol and o-f two students to The Con- cordiensis Board. Harl'ard Professor Lauds Aptitude of Vnion Men As t;raduote Engineers Elabo,rate ·Favors N,eeded For Prom IRC And Outing Club Afford Events Off Perennial Interest and Variety One of the most popular organ\<®~--­ Observatory Director Elaborates on Comets. Milky Way Galaxy Dr. Benjamin Bose, director of the Dudley Ob~ervatory. part of Union University in Albany, ex- plaim>d the twinkling of sta·rs as the interference of parallel rays of nearby stars in the Milky Way in the first of three lecturE's on the eatth in the universe \VednE'sday night in Old Chapel. The astronomer pointed out that the twinkling of the stars permits man to pick out the planE>t, more easily with the naked eye ina:;much as they do not twinkle. Dr. Boss also explained that a comet's \tail\ doe:; not always follow it. In no matter what direction the comet moves, he said, the sun's energy exert:; a powerful fot·ce on thE' tail. always pushing it away from the sun. Organisms May Exist That there is a otrong possibility, although \highly speculative\ that organisms similar to man e».ist el>'ewherE' in the universe was brought up by the Albany astron- omer. H1s explanation of his state- ment was that nature tends to re- peat .. Also Dr. Boss stated that in the millior;s of other galaxies such as that of which our sun is thP center, it is \mo1·e than probable\ that a planet exists with a similar devel- opment to earth's. He outlined the increased effi- ciency of photography in a,;tron- omy since the discovery of the ultra-violet and infra-red photo- graph;:;. This has been particularly helpful in photographing Saturn's rings·. he said. One cubic inch of eart-hly mat- ter contains as much mass as 2.000 cubic miles of comet'\ tail. he re- vealed. Sometimes they arE> as much as a million miles long. Dr. Boss declared that in his lecture next Wednesday night, he would deal with the M·ilky Way of which the sun is a $tar, and the following week with the universe as a while. These lectures will be held in Old Chapel. --~-·--Q--- -- Council Does Over Old Constitution 1 Continued from Page 1 l not apt to ·be changed and provided they fit the schedule of other col- lege events. Assisting Knopf will be: Edward Green, '43, Executive Editor; Jos- eph Furlong, '42, National Adver- ti:dng Di.rector; William Taylor, '42, Advertis-ing Manager; Avery Beer, '42, Circulation Manager; Robert Ritchie, '42; Philip Landry, '42. Clair Smith, '42; Charles Thu•·ston. '43; OJ,iver Houghton, '43. Jack Schulz, '43, was elected a member to the Junior Board of The Con- cordiensis and Norman Fox. '43. was cho;en Staff Photographer. Succeeding Clarence McCain, '41, as Editor, Knopf has climaxed hi$ two years effOl'ts on the Idol 8taff. A member of Delta Upsilon fraternity, he has also played !a- ct osse. Activitit>s of Elt>ctt>Ps Philip Landry, who with Robert Ritchie and Clair Smith, completes the Editorial Board of the Idol, ha:> been on Dean's List through- out his. career at Union. Furlong is the Sec.retary of the Student Council, Secretary of the Student Tax Committee, Secretary- Tteasurer of the Garnet Key and a member of Beta Theta Pi. Edward Green, a member of Delta Upsilon fraternity, has parti- cipated in the Mountebanks' perfDl- mances in addition to his work on the Idol. A member of the Student Coun- cil and Kappa Alpha fraternity. Avery Beer has received his \aUa\ for· swimming. ---o--~-- Smith Wins CAA Race To Pass Flying Tests James M. Smith of Troy com- pleted flying requirements and passed his civil pilot flying test at the Schenectady airport Wedne~­ day to vanquish Jean Herbert Un- derwood of Albany in a race for flrst honors in the flight course of the fourth Union College Civil Pi- lot Training program. Smith was congratulated by Robert P. Thomp- son, CAA inspector from Albany; George C. Havens, head of the fly- ing course; Professor Everett W. Thatcher. coordinatot of the Union program; and Harold E. Hotaling, flight instructor. Underwood was within an hour of completeing fly- ing requirements when Smith took off on his flight examination. Pre- liminary applications for pl'imary and secondary flight summer tra- ining are now being accepted by Professor Thatcher. MANAGERIAL OPPORTUNITY Dt·. Ernst Derg, head of the Electric.ll Engineering Depart- ment recently received a letter from Chester L. Dawes, Asso- ciate Professor of Engineering at Harvard, p-raising the apti- tude of Union College engineers in their gt·aduate school. Profes- sor Dawes.' letter is as follows: Dear Professer Berg: I appreciate very much yours of--- in which you suggested that Mr. Jack Danser of your senior class apply at Harvard for a g-radua,te scholars'hip. Ac- cordingly I am sending him an application together wHh our catalogue. \Ve have a very high regard for the high standards which you maintain at Union College, particularly in view of the work done by Richard Koveric while he was here two years ago. I trust that Mr. Dan- ser will find it possible to come here next year and I !mow that he wiii be particularly interested in the mathematical ;ubjects which Dr. Pipes teaches. I still have the wooden !-section with the iron washer around the restricted portion and not even our Ph.D.'s have been able to give an adequate explanation as to just how the washer was put in this position of maximum link- age. Give my regards to Dr. Grover and Mr. Paul. Very truly yours, Chester L. Dawes Shirer to Discuss Events in Germany vVilliam L, Shirer, C.B.S. Berlin journalist and authm·, will speak tonight in Memorial Chapel on the secrecy surrounding events in Nazi Germany. Mt·. Shirer has had years of ex- perience as a foreign correspond- ent, mostly in Germany, and he has worked as a profesdonal observer and analyst since his graduation from college in 1925, and has wit- ne.:-sed some of the most important historical events of ou1· time, in- cluding the occupation of the Rhineland and of Vienna. Mr. Shirer was present in Ger- many at the start of the second worl·d war. and remained there un- til his return to this country a month ago. An open forum will be held after the lecture. when questions may be asked of Mr. Shiret· by the audi- ence. Profit Item Minimized In Attempt to Insure Most Successful Dance An expensive and \very attrac- tive\ favor will be given all guests of Union students attending Jun- ior Prom, Chairman Keith Mc- Candless, '42, . announced today. MacCandless e,xplained that the nature of the favor will be kept se- cret until the .evening of May 9 when Benny Gqodman will play at the annual affair. The Prom chairman stated that the committee for the affair had se- lected an expepsive favor because the large attendance at last year's Prom had shown the financial ad- visabi'iity of ha,ving a more valu- able favor for this year's dance. \It was conclusively demonstrat- ed last year that the campus will fully support a Prom at which a big band plays,:· MacCandless said. \With that in mind, we are plan- ning for a dan~e from which there will be no large profit, but from which all that would have been profit will go into making the dance a better affair.\ Robert Davis, '42, who is in charge of booths for the affair, an- nounced today that the drawings will be held Tuesday afternoon at 1:15 o'clock in the Trophy Room of the gymnasium. The price for each of the bo.oths will be fifteen dollars. Selection for location, as in past years, 'will be allocated to fratrenity representatives in order of drawing. ---0,--- Goodrich-Duane Debate Finals To Announce Winners Prize Day <Continued from Page 1) be delegated to the executive in times extraordinary with the cer- tainty that thefle powers wiii be re- turned at the end of the emet'gency. Furthermore it was brought out that Congress, which alone can a·p- ·propriate money, is a restraining force that can block any dictatorial aspirations, for no means of finance o1· money are available to the exec- utive without the consent of Con- gress. Because of the nature of the techniques involved in this type of debating, the discussion attempted to discuss actualities, future possi- bilities, and implications of the problem without attempting to reach any final and definite deci- sion. UP TO DATE STYLES $4.85 up The lecture is being held under the auspices of Company E, Sec- ond Regiment of the New York National Guard in order to increase the company fund of that organiza- tion. -~- -o---- ·-- All reverent Sophomores who de- N.OTICE sire to become candidate managers Vi'e wish to point out that Dr. c. of track please get in touch with AI A K Collegiate Fit Babyal' at the Phi Delta Theta . raus of Brown University is PATIO & House or AI Callan at the Sigma not deceased as was inadvertently , N HALL izations here at Unio.n is the Out- ing Club, which car,ries on a varied pr•ogram during the entire academic year, emphasizing of course, the en- joyment of outdoor pursuits and the wholesomeness of outdoor activ- ity. During the winter the group hibernates to its cabin at North Creek where -the members make thei·r home for a weekend of skiing and tobogganing. Several times dur- ing the wiuter they invite similar groups from other colleges for a weekend of winter sports contests. This past winter a,n intercollegiate sports meet was held at North Creek, sponsored by the Club. Hikes and canoeing trips are scheduled during the spring. months by members of the Outing Club, and they usually have a joint hike or canoe trip with Skidmore and Vassar. This spring they are hold- ing a hotdog roast to complete their activities. Full Program The weekenas comprise· morE' than just skiing or the hiking, which enRbles the .members to see the beautiful Mohawk Valley and the Adirondack mountain10. The canoe trips affol'd them thO') oppot- tunity to visit upper Ne)lv York State, and they are Rble to visit many picturesque landmarks of the Mohawk Valley as well as other beauty spots of the State. · The program of the Outing Club is such that it enables a ~Student to take part in a full outdoor ~z:ogram. The International Relations Club meets every weelt with tpe Car- negie visiting professor of Interna- tional relations the day following his lecture in Old Chapel. This year Count Carlo srorza, former :!foreign Minister of Italy a,nd now i leading anti-fascist spokesman, ~as the visiting professor, and he spent the first semester on the campus. The group discussed aspects of the Count's lecture and international Hear PAULA KELLY with America's No. 1 Dance Band Leader GI.ENN MILLER in \Moonlight Serenade\ • FOR UNION TUES., WED., THURS. at 10 P.M. C. B. S. Stations ln response to requests for a larger number of social events, the committee investigated the possibil- ities of a Winter Carnival and Post- basketball Game Dances, as well as the Student Council's sponsorship of dances. The facilities for a Win- ter Carnival were found to be in- sufficient, and attendance at bas- ketball games and interest in the post-game dances low. Consequent- ly. the committee did not recom- mend any council action in regard Phi Place immediately. There is a stated in \Scientifically Spea::ing\l 1 245 State St. good opportunity here for any mem- ff~o;r;;T;u;e;s;d;a;y;·;;A;p;t;i;l ;1;5~. :;:;:;:;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;g ber of the Class of 1943. becau~e • no candidates have reported as: yet. to a. Winter Carnival. ------a--~- The repo~t submitted by Abe Varsity Ten Wins Dorsman. '42. Robe1·t Nothacker. '42, and Paul Mara, '41, on amend- Ed vVard scm·ed four goals to ments to the Council's constitution lead the varsity lacroEse team to an 1 tecommended two changes in the easy 12-9. victory over a combined! wording. Heretofore. the presence Ali-Amencan - Freshman team in 1 of 30 of the council's 42 members scrimmage Wednesday afternoon ' has been required for t·he transac- on Library Field. JAMES RESTAURANT 426 STATE STREET We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests tion of business. FE>eling that this Fred Wikoff made three goals : figure was too high, the committee for the varsity. while Jack Gui- 1 : suggested that the quorum require- bert had two and Paul Dwyer. ments be changed to read, \three- Frank England and Ken Benjamin I fourths of the unexcused members\. Iegister·ed one each. Joe Paul tal-l After a discussion, in which it was lied twice for the losers. I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ pointed out that the power of the president of the council to excuse DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM members would. if this recom- mendation wet·e accepted. give the and TAP ROOM president the power viltual:y to set We Serve Beter Food his own quorum, the committee's for Better Health suggestion was defeated by a close 118-120 JAY ST. vote. Opp. New City Hall fh e council accepted the idea be- 1 =;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;~ hind the second recommendation r made by the Constitutional Amend- ment committee, when it voted to strike one sentence out of its con- stitution. This sentence provided I that, in the elections for members ' of the executive committee. frater- nity men and neutrals should vote I as a body. Thus the larger of these : two groups could. if it were suffi- 1 ciently organized. elect the execu- tive committee-member from the smaller group. Under the new ar· rangement, the fraternity member . will be voted upon only by the fra- ~ ternity representatives, neutrals, 1 only by neutrals. i GET YOUR HAIR CUT I The Remodelled Products for Betfer Qualify • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR (ltnu.rnrbirusis GAZETTE PRESS Printers • SANITARY BARBER SHOP Next to the Union Inn Ice Cream Corp. : ~--------~~~~~~~~~§§~~~~ news. In addition, specific discus- sions were held so a:s to give the members a background in contem- porary Eut•opean and Far Eastern history. In the recently distributed annual report of the Carnegie Foundation for International Peace, there was an article on Count Sforza and his activities at Union College. A pic- ture of a meeting of the IR'C with Count Sforza also appeared. During the Christmas recess two members of the club represented the Union chapter at an IRC -con- ference in Washington, D. C. Or.e of the members read a paper on a possible peace settlement at the end of the present war. Students from all parts of the country participated in this conference on Interna.tional Relations. The IRC meets with other visit- ing lect UI ers and the group as!{S questions after a ·brief lecture on some aspect of international affaits This past year they met with Dr. Neprash, Russian mathematician who is working for a religious ot·- ganization, and Dr. Leo Wollem- bem·g, formerly a ·professor in an Italian University, and now lecturer at Columbia University. Foreign Policy Reports and books dealing with subjects of interest to the organization are sent free of charge to all of the members. The IRC has a smail library at the present time from which membet·s can obtain material on pertinent subjects. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper. ·· ... One Step frorr State Streei Hear PATSY GARRETT , with FRED WARING and his Pennsylvanians in \Pleasure Time\ • FOR UNION MON., TUES., WED., THURS., FRI. at 7 P.M. N. B. c. Stations .. Z- V< s L F~ wi COl of to< Th lef fr< Ur pa tal tel du wl Su D! of St N. PI ti< ri1 ac pe of m R fe cc si1 A: w a1 \\ nl fe ol G ti F

cus- the was his pic- two Or.e a end ted asks on Dr. or- an st to of The the inent N .. Prom To Be Broadcast Vol. LXIV., No. 48 S CD Anti:cipates La:rge Attendance For Conference Entire Student Body, Sub-Freshmen, Fathers, l.nvited to Take Part A large section of the campus will pa·rtici·pate in this weekend's confet ence on \Colleges in Defense of Democracy,\ it was announced today by the Committee in charge The entire student body of the col- lege, as well as t·he fathers and sub- freshmen who will be visiting Union, have been invited to pattici- pate in all the conference round~ . tables and addresses. Many prominent figures in con- temporary affairs will be ptesent during the three-day conclave which wi;J last 'from Friday throug·h I Sunday. Such men as Raymond Daniell, chief London cmrespondent I of the New York Times, Clarence I Streit, head of \Union Now,\ Dav·id, N. Rowe and Arthm Sweetser of Princeton and the League of Na- tions, Frederick Schumann and En- rique de Lozada of Williams will act in the capacity of advisory ex- perts and lecturers at the functions. .I Douglas Dryer To Return To Harvard UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.. TUESDAY, APRIL 22, 1941 PRICE FIVE CENTS PROM CONCERT SINGER Skidmore-Union lewis,Davis,SchlooptS'Chwartz Glee Club D~nce 1 New Phi Beta Kappa Members I Success Predicted i • • • ~ • Four Elected Bring McKenzie Asks Student: ~mon Qwz Krds ?h~w Undergraduate Total Co-operation. Explains j Truth T 0 Be a Lrar To But Seven Men Neutral. Fratern •ty 1 Tax I Once again Union students d1s- tingui:;hed them:elves when four , Four senior>' weie Plected to the tepretentativcs emerged $6.00 oldest New York Sta1e chapter of Predicting a most succe,.sful J'oint ' Ph' B ta K a at U ·a Collega richer from Gon.!y Rand·all's t e app nt n • Glee Club concert and· dance with ~ WG y (.,!Uiz Program yesterday. 1 1ast night to bring .the ·total num- Skidmore. Kenneth :\1ackenzie, co·; These were \Bin.!dog\ .\1alkan, · ber of students elected to the na- chairman of the affair which is be· Jake Van Aernam, and Gregory tiona! honot·ary scholastic society at ing oponsored b,. the Interfra:er- 1 , '\ • th' t f th o McKennis,--who won the bulk unton ts year o seven, one o e I nity Council, appealed for the co- 1 of the mane'' carrying off the smallest groups elected since Bach- 1 operation of all student:; in mak- •. · \ I f A · t honors with his \intelltgent guess- e or o rts I·eqmremen s were ing this affair one of the most ' 'b d d d d ing\ to the question: \Which of roa ene a eca e ago. memorable of the yeat. , the following do nol belong, i Election standards are recogniz- 1 The dance is planned as a non-: Lincoln, Washington, Roosevelt, , ab:y higher at Union than in other profit making affair and costs are 1 Taft, Pinocehio '?\ \Birddog\ -~ colleges of its size. No student with being kept to a minimum. How- 1 who gave the name Earl Raif- I less than an A ·minus average for ever, in order to break even, Mac· • stanger --~took longer to alli'wer his four yeat·s college wot k is con- kenzie said the club must have his question, \Why do they te>t sidered. :;ix dollars fr·om each of the fra-. the searchlights at night?\ Aft- Professor Morton C. Stewart, sec- ternities and fifteen fwm the neu-' er repiy.ing that they went furth- retary of the Union chaplet·, an- trab. Alexander Arony, Edward er then 1 not accepted>, he was nounced election of Albert Arthur Miller, James Stillman and Loui~ : nminded that we see certain Davis 3rd, of Rochester, John Prior Loeb wiJ.l collect contribution:; from 1 thmgs better at night. This broad Lewis of Hudson Falls, Lloyd Me- the neutrals. The cost per person 1 hint enabled him to walk away Kinley Schloop of Schenectady, and will <;!epend upon the number con-: with a dollat· prize. Laskar Schwartz of Crompond. tributing, but Mackenzie estimated· Pt·evt'ouslv elected we1e Robert Van Aeram, who nervoush: \et · \ · l ·t should not be much more than 1 \ S m 1 He n f Neu•burgh John his age at four years proved less a ue rma 0 • w· • twenty-five cents. succeosful when he defined \:;an- A. Ruskowski of Schenectady and Profits for Charity for ized\ by calling it first laun- David Valentine Tiedeman of Els- If th d h rofit the dry,~then .an odd coin. None of mere, e ance s ows a P Twentv~five members of the 1 .11 be tut ned ove1· to the the contestants had anv trouble o money w · \ Union facultv., the nucleus of the e ugees usictans · t · \ \ Union Phi Beta Kappa group, se- E '11 b I d t th door of though. Last heard of, all were Sponsored by the four chapters ' of the Student Committee for De- mocracy ftom Union, Skidmore, Russell Sage and R. P. I., the con- ference will be effected with the cooperation of the Collegiate Divi- sion ·of the Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies. I R f ' M · · Comm'ttee in spending Gregor,·'s mane'·, \ axes wt e Pace a e , llected the undergraduate of the th d th chapel to also having a wonderful time. M I • s k e gym an e 1 -----------------' honotary society at a meeting in et .ropo ltan ta·r. Anna Ka'S as, take. ~p a collection for the refugee\' Bailey Hall. About 225 alumni com- , mustctans. K h s h plete .the Alpha Chapter of New I The concert will begin at 7:30; en net · arpe York at Union, which was founded Those Union men who have been working on .campus anangements are Paul Becker, Alexandet· Arony, Williams Birdsall and Robet·t Hay- ner: .Student de1egates to the con- ference, through the graciousness of the faculty and alumni of Union Co:lege, will be housed in the vicin- tiy of the campus. To Sl .ng at Annua· Prom Concert and the d-ancing at 9 p.m. The I in 1817, have been elected. whole affair will end at 12 mid-i J • p •d ,, night. Larry Audette and his or-1 unlor resl ent Standards Liberalized From stenographer to !adio con- . chestra has been engag.ed f.or d.iJ.nc- i It is of interest t·hat only students test winner to Metropolitan Opera East Coast to Hear I i.ng. Students will remember Au- I w·lk\ Sh d taktng Latin and Greelt were far- but spectacu:ar history of blonde Goodman on A. freshman dance earlier this year Macomber Elected In 1922, consequently, the Union and concert .stage--that is the short I' dette as having played for the i I m, eper I merly eligible for Phi Beta Kappa. ('onfPrt•Jtr.f' l'rogrum: 1-'l'itlay •. \pril 2;,: :! ;t1t1-1; :nfl p, m.~l !egi~teatirm 1; ::111 Jl. n1.-I >inner. Halr:> Ho-u~e. \:au p. m.-Adtlref;.'{, \\Vhat i~ t·ht- \\\ Fighting Ah,ut.\ by !Jr. \\'altt:>\r l'. 1La.ng~;t-t1L Intt•Hiut·tiott by J)t•. Ilixoll Hran Fox. SatnroluJ •. \11ril 26: 111 :;~n .n. m -lt·~u~ul-table:-:: nn foreign polii'Y. 1. Europt\. Halt> Hou~e ~twlent l..t'llll\~t·, :Z. Fa.r .Ea:--t. I ,r. I Ja Yitl !\:. I tu.\\ e tlt•ctUit-1\ in F'1H Eu~tt-1'11 .\.ffair~. l'rinc.t~tn11 l!ni\·er~ityL .•. ~·nuth .\nwric·a I )r Eni·iqllP ~. th~ Lozada <I lept. of Pol it i<'al !'\dt.\'IH'P \\'illiam~ (. 'ullege. ~outh Atn{-1-rit·a.n tlipltlma t) 1 :oo p. nt.-LmwhPotJ. Hale I-Iom~f·. ;! :;n p m.-l!nl\1111-tnhlPs nn natic1t1al T'roillem~. l. Ha~t'.:4 of I>t>m,ot·r;u·y. Le\Vi~ Cc n.•\ 1\\ ritf't', formt>r edtu:a~ ttolH;} ciii'PI'!nl', 1]_..1.; \\• (\' ). ~iJli~ mau Hall. <\) Ite~lltuT~:-:c in Pl·ft·n~P. J)J'. \Yil- Hanl Agnr .fa.uthnritY on natural l\t>~om c·t-~. led urer at t 'olumhia t•nh·et·~itv 1111 geo}11g~·. former h P' a el-m ·a~ t t> r of :-..: P w m a H ~c·hno!). :l. Peft>ll&t:\ I·:n1ergr:>IH'Y and ~a~ tioanl P.rngrt>~t'. llr. I>uugln~ \\\. Camphe-11 t as:-:i~ IH.11t profe~gor of 111}\'t-rnmPnt, l'ninn l' o I 1 e g e. (lriginator nf c·ollegiatP rountl· table priudple). 4. l'. :4. and Futur<> \Ym·Jtl ()rder. Arthur ~wt\'e-l~t\t· t former memM her of ~er·retariat nf .the Leagut' nf :\ratiou:-;, mtmbt\l' nf In~titute for AdYatu•etl Htudieg, Princet- tonl. ~':nO p. m.-TPa and Her·eption. Htudellt Lounge. Halt~ Hou~P. ~~ :~ll~ti :Ou p. m.-HourHl~ta.hle hroacl- f'ast. \\'t i Y. t 'hairtnan, Profe~~or 1 >oug-ln• \V. l•ampbell. G :no p. m --l>illllt:'l'. Hale H•·u:-:e. Ad- (ln~~H- by .HaynliHHl llanit-11. C'hief LotHlon t·on·p-~JHllHlent, ~pw Yorlt Time~ . ::111 p. m.-t•,•tH·ert. l'ninn-Hl<itlmon'\ <:let> l'luh. :.r .. nwrial l'hapel. !t :on Jl. m. Patu·p ....\lunHti £;-ym- twsium. snuduy, ..\.Jiril 2i ::111 a .. m -PJpnary ~P~~iun. t'o~~it­ teP .fn Defe-nd AmPrka hy Atthng t.he AlliE'\ Collegiate llivi>ion. Ohl c·hapPI. to :!lfl n. m.-Juint ~f:l~~in11. 1·uion a-ml \Villlanu·• l·onferent'f'. f Jlrl t•hapd. 12 ::111 Jl. m.-Dintwr. Hale- HouF-P. :~ :l:i p. m. ~J.~mpit'P Fjt~te ~o:\·n :\[epting. < lltl l 'hapel. TnJll>'; \l mon Xn\\. v~. Pan-Amerit-anism.\ lli,s~ c>UR8ion lea,lers, Cla.reiH'·~ ~t r~lt'. heatl uf 1'nion ~uow : I~ l'PilPriC'k ~('huma.nn and Ent·iqllt> •le I..uzarla. of \\\illiunw l'nlleg<' ... nnd ron- fer~nee student tlelegates. Anna Kaskas who will sing at the I r Mackenzie pointed out that no chapter made no elections. Since Third Annual Prom Concert, Mrs. other contributions will be asked T 0 Other Posts the AB requirements were broad- Dixo.n Ryan Fox announced today. The 1941 Junior Prom will be other than the one from the frater- ened, however, from seven to 12 Born in Bridgeport, Conn., of broadcast through the facilities of nities and from the neutral group. Kenneth Sharpe of Pasadena. undergraduates were elected yearly. Lithuanian parents, Anna Kaskas Station way. it was announced ~o- !he met_hod of runnin~ this affair Calif., was chosen president ui the All four electees have been ap- studied music at the Hartford Con- day ·by Ketth Jl:'lcCandless, Cha~r· IS experimental. he .>atd. and the Class of 1943, next yegi'',; junim s. pointed to give commencement ora- servatory. To pay .for her lessons man of the Jumo.r Prom Commt~- future of the small dance depend.-:, ac Union College this morning. tions during graduation exercises. she found a position as stenogra- tee. The Prom Will go on the at.r upon its success. He urged all stu-, He succeeds William L. Will:in of Davis is from Rochester and is pher for a local concern. Mod'est fo: ~ half hour from _11:30 u~ttl dents who can attend in formal, Schenectady, who was elected vice- a member of the Alpha chapter of as it was, this beginning was to rr.tdmght, Eastern Daylight Savmg clothes to come formally. Students 1 president in the elections which Psi Upsilon fraternity at Union. He have important results for her. Time, and will be heard in twelve informally dressed wi!l als? not be\ had been carried over from last has been editor of the \F·reshman Singing one night at a private mu- of the northea£tern states .. Al- out of place, he satd, ~mce the I week due to a misunderstanding of Record\ photographic editor of the sicale her a;bility caught the inter· ready a large number of students dance has been made \dre.>s op- Chapel notices read \Garnet college yearbook, and an est of a ptominent music lover who are writing home to remind their tiona!.\ • · . 1 . executive staff mem·ber of the contributed $500 to send Anna to families and friends to tune in on . Robert L. Shepherd of Batt- \Idol\' literary quarterly. Vice- Europe to study; the choir in which the broadcast. Jomt Concert NumbPrs I more, Md., was chosen ,;e~rl'try. president of the campus Classical the young girl was soloist collected The final arrangements are be- Dates will be arrang-ed by Mac- I ~nd h Rona:d G. 1 Macomber of Club, he holds two scholarships in- a little more; and with this nest-egg ing concluded with WGY and Good· kenzie for students wishing to take 1 oc ester was se ected treasur<'r. eluding the Rochester Alumni she set forth bravely for the home- man who at the present time is members of the Skidmore chorus I Sharpe was on both the ft·esh· scholarship. He holds a block U for land of her parents. making up his program. An effort to the dance. He urged all students man football team and on the var- varsity swimming competition and Music Teacher 'Chospn' will be made by the Prom C'ommit- interested to get in touch with him 1 :;ity lsst fall. Vice-pt esidPnt uf hl> is intramural wrestling champion. In Kovno, Lithuania, at the gov- tee to instill into the broadcast a at the Phi Gamma Delta house as I class last year, he is a member of Fellowshlp Winner b 'd d h d bit of collee:e spirit and colo.r so ao soon as pos~ible. Chi Psi fraternity. ernment-su st ize opera s e rna e ~ Lewis comes from Glens Falls. her debut in the \Masked Ball.\ to make it more than just an-. Half of the program for the con- Wilkin is the son of :0.1r. and He was exchange student to St. L t h · the pat·t of other broadcast of dance mus-ic. 1 \ cert will be given by each college' Mrs. Robet·t J. Wilkin of Schener.- a er s e was gtven < Andrews University in St. Andrews, Siebel in \Faust\. Then, with the Several plans are being worked on. <:>r!l'~niza.tion with the t:-v·o groups 1 tady and is a gt·aduat~ CJf Nott Scotland in 1939-40 before the ex- f . · 1 · t f h ver that will give Union the desired 1 J:ltntng tn th_e presentatw. n. of two • Terrace Hie:h School. A prPmedic'll mancta assts ance o er go n- 1 ~ change system was disrupted by t h t t Ita] f f th P ublicity and still in no wa,. detraet In. umbe.rs. Thts procedur.e. t~ m keep-~ student, he is a member nf Sizma men , s e wen o Y or ur er o ., the war. Duling his freshman year, t d W 'th f 1 tt f 1 • tro- from the dancing pleasure of prom- mg wrth the annual Jomt concert Phi fraternity. s u y. 1 our e ers o n · he was awarded the Oppenheim duction to prominent people in goers and the radio audience. ! successful . in past}·ears, ·when. it 1 Shepherd is a vice-pre:;iden~ of J?rize for having the highest scho- Rome and with one such letter to Chairman McCandless pointed 1 has been ~eld altetnately at Umon: Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity and lastic standing in his class. He is someone in Milan, the eighteen- out that this Prom Weekend may 1 and at Skidmore. . I won his Block \U\ in eros.< C'Olin- a member of the Glee Club and year-old girl chose to go to the lat- be the last of it.£ kind that can be I The program 01 the eoneert ~s . try last fall. He is present 1:'\v choir and a counselor at the fresb- ter city. There she sang for four enjoyed at Union during the dura- wb ell asbal. fhuldl p~ge oFf ?dict~rPsCwtll , pound class wrest.Jing champ.on r.f man camp. A varsity debator, he t h h f h 1 e pu ts e · rn n ay s on- • h 11 H eac ers eac o w om were e o- c Continued on Pa o-e 4 ) cordiensis. . t e co ege. e was also on the is also a contributor to \The Idol\ quent over the beauty of her voice. \' II bowlmg and hockey teams and has and editor-at-large of \The Concor- In the fifth studio the professor, been a high honor student cnnsiat- diensis,\ student newspaper. He has Ferdinand Ferrara, alternately tOle Tax Commz\t-1-.ne Rz\story Revz\ew d ently. been appointed an administrative his hair, wept, raged, exclaimed at f-,1(;, e I Macomber, a neutral, was one of fellow to the Littauer Graduate the natural glory of her voice, de- Wh \[ 71 tf' b h 8 • D • d the sophomot·e stars of the t;nion School of Public Administration at plored the way in which she han- l e lr.J.em ers zp lS lSCUSSe I basketball tea'm during the pagt Harvard for 1941-42. died it. Wisely Anna elected to 1 season and is now on the va \bitv Schloop is the son of the Rev. A. study with him. In the n1idst of the current active+--........,..------~------- lacrosse squad. J. Schloop of St. Timothy Italian Grand Opera Attained controversy over the methods and I b Methodist Church in Schenectady. L t · t' · t f 1936 E 1! theort'es wht'ch lt'e beht'nd student a out two or three hundred. Stu- --~~o~---- a e m ne wm er o a e The holder· of the Pullman scholar- Lewis, now Assistant Manager of .government at Union, some details 1 dent .g 0 ':,ernme~t wa~. in the '.'Tow~ St t B d f R ship at Union, he has ·been appoint- the Metropolitan Opera Association, Qn the practices, purpo.:e and goals ~eetmg f~shwn, ~Ith all. Impo_r- a e oar 0 egents ed a methodist minister at Wil- heard Miss Kaskas sing at a lesson. upon which are based the current t nt questiO.ns I:>emg dectded m Protects Drafted Men liamsville, Vermont. As student I d 'th h · e and abt'l nrocedut·ee •e·em 1'n order· lle!'e. weekly meetings m O_ld Chapel. All mpresse wt er votc - - - pastor, he will attend the Boston ity, he arranged for her to sing at . If the charge of autocracy is to t~am managers, edrtors and the University School of Theology next the first of the Metropolitan Radio to be flung at student government hke . were elected during these The New York State Board of ''ear. He attended Green Mountain A d 't' = a f' ld f seven as a whole. one of the first re·· rnee_tmgs. Each was vo.te.d a P. er Regents took steps over the week o u 1 wns. \\,·om te o d Junior College at Poulteney, Ver- h d d t stants Miss Kaskas cipients of this charge might be I chaapdtta tax; thus one acttv1ty which en to protect college students pre- un re con e h . . been voted a fift'-·-cent pet· paring to teach called to serve in mont, before transfering to Union. forged steadily ahead to first place t e student tax cornm1ttee, which, I . \ Sch t f c d l ·n the finals. The reward was ap- though powerful and indispensablv capita tax would have fifty cents .the armed forces of the country. war z comes rom rompon , \ multiplied b th nu b · f t . N. Y. A member of Kappa Nu fra- p earances at the Metropolitan's connected with the activities syo- Y e m et 0 s u- All students preparmg to teach · h . • dents in college h . 1 termty, · e was an executtve com- Spring Season. There such roles as tern, is appointed without the ne- 1 . · . . w. o have bee.n m the armed forces· mittee mem·her of the student eoun- Maddalena in \Rigoletto\ and Lola cessity of approval by any campl!S When, m the nmetten twenties, 1 wrl_I not ·have to fulfill the Pew re- 1 cil and the Junior Promenade, A in \Cavalleria Rusticana\ as well as body. Here, however, those desir-l the student body became too large I qurre.ments of five years of <'ollcgc co-founder of the intercoll . t the title .part in the long-heralded ous of complete democracy must I for the Old Chapel. attendance fell 1 startmg Sep~ember, 1942. Thus the Stud t C . 'tt f D egJa e revival of Gluck's \Orpheus and immediately admit the necessity of\ o~ sharply: Then, ~f an activ~ty ~uling only applies to pre~ent jun- he isenorga~~~~ · ~~e ~~te:c~~~r~~f~ Euridice\ fell to her lot. so well an exception. wtshed to mcrease Its per captta wrs and semot·s. They will be re- confet·ence ou '~Colle . D fg . h . tax 't ld '1 .. k\ th . d t t t 11 ges In e ense was she received by critics and In seekmg t e true story behmd I .. 1 cou .. ea~~ Y ~ac e qmre o te.urn o co ege ·and of Democracy\ to ·be •held here Fri- audiences alike that she was given the present status of the tax com- meetmg and earn the mcrease. complete thetr college work. A day through Su d H b . . . . E . . t h , t\fi t . 11 b I n ay, e was ust- a contract .for the regular winter mtttee. a Concordtensis reporter 1 arly m the nmeteen thirties a I eac er s cer I ca e WI e grant- 1 ness manager of the \Concordien- season of this famous op~ra house, approached. Dr. William W. B:~-~ gro~p _of seniors succeeded in es- ' ed them on the basis of only four 1 sis\ and has been publicity manager a.nd here she has remamed ever n_ett, Coordmator .of Student Actrvt- tabl.tshmg a student council, con-I> eats work. of numerous campus functions. He smce her first appearance. t1es. Dr. Bennetts answer was an 1 sistmg of 17 men elected at large All other students will be re- has been awarded a scholarship to Concert tickets for students and outline ·Of the history of student I from the three upper· classes. Thi:: 1 qui red to present five years of col-I the Columbia University School of their guests may be seemed at the l tax funds since the World War. 1 group was delegated considerable : lege work. Students must return I Business. booltstore. Only two tickets will be 'C'ntil after the World \Var, the - 1 power. but the voting of student : tCJ college within a year of their The new members are pictured allowed a student. Union student body numbered (Continued on Page 4) \discharge from the Army or Navy. on page four.

Page Two THE CONCORDIENSlS, TUESDAY, APRIL 22, 1941 • 1 very defi1i.ite advantages which have not been emphasized. Tuesday, May 27, 9:00 A.M. CALENDAR Tonight illottrnr German 1 German 2 Mechanics \Sophomore) 2:00P.M. Social Studies 12 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Dr. E. B. Speight, former Dean of Swarthmore. 1:30-2:30 ,p, m. - Recol'd Concert. Memorial Chapel. FoL:-;·lH.ll !Sii i We are living in a world where g:ovel'l1ments and ideologies, including democracy, m·e being put to a severe test. If we are to take pmt in our democracy and help to keep it supreme, we must real·ize its bad points as well as the good. Such things as dirty politics, unfulfilled campaign promises, and ignomnt candidates do exist; hut, if we are to make a success of democracy, we must know how to cope with these evils. WNlnesday, Ma~· 28, 9:00A.M. Varisty Baseball. .Union vs. Ma\>s. State at Amherst \.1 C:aus,z l'asa l'aroh· .lsst1i' l\lerul.H~~~~- Of ule-- ..-\~:::.UL-w.tC\1 L~Ulh:g-;al~ 1'1 t:!:>.ti Hill I lll:=.tli:IJutur ul tilt.: ClH· legU.llt: lJ~g~;.•::,~ The u ff i L' i:a::;:-1 ::.:n~e ,-:-:,.-;, !:-:.,·,-: l,Jc-e-:cr--cu-:l-clccll-,,-,-:-l-lll..,-1 ~-:,lc::lt-, -u 7 t -;L..,-. 1-tt-u 1-1 -:L·,,- u..,-tl.-.t..,-Oc-' .-:-l::c.ll:-;-:IJ-;-:-11 :::.h t:' J.- T u ~;: J.uy auJ FnLIHYti thruughuu~ th~.: l.'olh.:gt: J ~:al. EliHoriul -Ituunt~, ~ill1tnan~1EJ1-:---Clii01~ Cvl~t:gc -Ca.Iup--u;:---;r~lt.:pllull..:, ~dtt~necrad~, 4-0I;.;:.;. llulJllt~it·t:iun OffiCe, ri~'h-~-Li~'-,t-ze-·1-lt: ~f•l~~~J3! !:it-..tt~--S~~il~lie\.•U\J~:\~-·{~ Chemistry 1, 2, 3 Mathematics 21 <Students wHI report to Chemistiy Labora- tory, Room 201) Psychology 21 <Students will 1 e- port to Chemistry Laboratory, Room 201) 8:15 .p. m. - American Chemical Society Meeting. Little Theatre, Russell Sage. Speaker, Dr. Mar- tin Fisher, Professor of Bio- Chemistry, Unive1·sity of Cincin- nlti, \Paints and Paintings\. Tel~ptw11e 4·-!1-ll --~-·-~---· ------- ~-- ~ .~- ~-­ ~lltereli. ut tht;! :Sch~HtJct:.u.l,Y Pu~l lift iLL' a::. Secutlll Clab::) __ .:Vl~!_!~~a~lLl'. We who have just become o1· are about to becorne citizens should not wait to learn practical politics. Now, while we are in college is the time to get experience in handling election problems. Right here and now we should find out how to teH the good from the bad and the true from the false in a na- · tiona!, state, or city election. Thursday, May 29, 9:00 A. M. Wednesda~· lO:CO a. m. - Daily Assembly. Sul>sl:ript·ion lll'lcc Fl\c Lt:lll:s a •. .-ujJj': $0.UlJ a ~~.:al; dt.·lt\\t:ll'd any\\ht·rt= in the l:nllcu ::>tate,, Armand Y. Fl'igenbaum ........................... Editor-in-Chief h:q, 1 .l ~u Il··u .... c- -t-7:~:n Laslrnr Schw~utz, .................... , ......... Bu:;iness \'-1a.nager E.:qq,a \J~t ll•'tl .. t l-7:.:~1 Solomon Blechman .............................. Managing Editor Samuel l'ortnoy .............................. , ... Associate Editor I~.ll'l··• :-.:1: l!· u ... t- 1-;:::..n Jonathan !'Parson .................................. Spot t,; Editor :'1;..;111.l J·'lti l'l.t• •- 1-t;\:_:l J. Donald Haigh ............................. Chculation :\lanager l'!1i ]ltlt:l 'l'llll.l llt~U:-l \-t~.l --------------------------- Junioi' Board Robert Hayner Thomas O'Connor Harvey Fishbone Jack Schulz G1·angl'l' Tripp I\'oJ·man Fox. Staff Photogra.ph~:>r ----------·---·--- ---·· -· Sophomnrp Board Thomas Cullen, \\'illiam Halt, AlbC\rt Kronick, Edward John:;on, Arthur Pasto1 e, Seymour Thicl;:man BIL~in•.'SS Staff Justin Perl~tein Jos<'Ph Jaycox Stan1ey GreC\nstein Melville 11e:,>s~ngel David Rosenblum REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MADISON AVE. NEW Yo,K, N.Y. CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO Issue Editor ............... , ......................... . ,John Schulz Giange1· Tripp Asl>ista.nts Seymour Thicl,man Harvey Fishbone ==========-·~=~- Tuesday, Ap1 il 22, 1941 CONCLUSIVE DEMONSTRATION That a student at Cnion can be Yery ncti\·e in extra-cmTi- cuhu' pal'ticipation and yet attain scholastic heights has l.>een conclusively demonstrated dming the current academic yem·. In elections of both Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi. as well as in the naming of tho~e honored with Stage Appointments, the lists have been studded with those men who have held up various of the <:ampus' activities aatl \Vith those men who have worked consistently during their four years at colleg·e. The four men eleeted to Phi Beta I\.appa ~·e:-;terday rounded out the yem·'s unustml pattNn of the combination of good student and ncti\·e leadel'. A. Arthm· Davis, John Prior Lewis, Lloyd :\IcKinley Schloop, and Laskar Schwartz repre- ~ent, as a group, pe1 haps the highest deg-ree of extra-scho- lastic acti\·ity of any of the groups honored this year. Some of the men participated in extnl-campus work. In addition to this activity, Davis has won a \lJ!ock C\ was Editoi' of the \Freshman Hecord,\ and i:.; president of his fra- ternity. Lewis was Exchange Student to St. Andrews. was <I member of the \Conconlien:-;is\ staff, and was managing edi- tot' of the \Idol.\ Schloop was active in the Philomathean Societ;\\ and was an intercollegiate dc>batet·. Schwartz i;; Business :\lanager ot the \Omcordiensis is a leader in the Student Committee for Democmcy, and is a memln'r of the Clee Club. To the.se men. we offel' om· congratulations for a job well <lone and a eu!lt•giatt> eal't't'l' HJlJ>I'opl·ia.td;\' elinl<IXt'd. To others who may haw felt at the beginning of this ~·eat' that election to Phi Hl'ta Kappa or the <tttainment of othe! scholastic holllil S at l. nioll demanded a premium of thick glasses and renunciation of campus life fm· fom· ~·ears, we present the men named above. They are living proof that it is possible to haYe a complete and well balanced life on the Union campus, and still g-ain those honors which are always I'emembered during a man's lifetime. ON ELECTIONS Of course, there are many things to be said against putting this practice fm· politics back into effect at Lehigh. The sys- tem is sure to bring· back with it all the defects which caused its abolition b;v Arcadia last year. However, in view of the broader purpose, that o± becommg worthwhi'le, thinking citi- zens, we should be able to forget the defects of the political method and to keep in mind the practical advantages which it offers. With the ]Dresent system, we are leaming nothing except how to make a quick selection; through campus poli- tics, we can possibly learn to judg-e the tme worth of candi- dates by going through hectic, exciting campaigns with all the color, speeches, and promises of election in a democracy. There have been references of late to the fact that Lehigh students live in a social vacuum. Tieinstation of politics might easily help to counteract these references. At any rate, Arcadia certainly should not consider the matter closed. The conduct of the .i.\lay 7 election and the student body's reaction to the system may quite possibly prove that we should return to the old method. -Lehigh Brown and White OUR COLLEGIATE CONTEMPORARIES Massachusetts Beta of Phi Beta Kappa at Amhe1·st College has· an undergraduate membership of thirty-four men this yea.r. In support of Miss :Ma1jorie Myers' article on \What's Wrong with Maniage\ the \Oberlin Review\ published the following statement: We do not consicer Miss Myers' column, \What's Wrong with Mar- riage?\ a breach of good taste. Miss Myers sincerely believes the statements she made about marriage and infidelity . .She .may be mis- taken-we believe she is-but the important fact is she ·is sincere; she is neither a ·cheap sensationalist nor a publicity seeker. Further- more, widespread discussion and numerous letters to 1fiss Myers are sufficient evidence of the thought-provoking value of her column. As vehicles of expression of student opinion, Review columns will always be open to those with sincere, thought-provoldng opinions written in decent language. For practical purposes we shall our- selves judge by this standard material submitted to the Review; certainly our judgment need not and will not pass unchallenged. Thi~ we :believe: discussion and even controversy are necessa1y to improvement of existing instituti0'1s; no institution is so perfect that discussion may not lead to its improvement. Revised Final Examination Schedule June 1941 tAll PXaminations will be nPld in the gymnasium unless otherwise' indicated.> Monda~, :\oiay 19, fi:OO A. 1\i. Biology 21 Chemistry 31 F1ench lOa Latin 1 Physics 11 Psyc.holog·y 4 :Soeial St ut.!ies 21 Social Studies 38 Spanish 1 Stre!'ls and Highwa}!'< Structural Design 2:oa P. :u. German 5 • Fresn:nPn l SociR.l Studie' 1 fuPstluy, )luJ 211, !l :00 A. :\-1. Biology 1 Chemistry 21 Ohemistry 22 Compara.tiv<' Literature Engineering Law l!.iPnioJ E.E.l :VJathematics 11 Physics 1 Psychology 3 Ps:,chology 11 Social Studies 22 Social Studies 50 The1·modynamics 1 Junim E. E.) 2:00 P.M. Social Studies 10 Religion So~ial Studies 28 Social Studies 33 2:00P.M. Psychology 1 Friday., May 23, 9:00 A. !\1. Elements of Ele::otrical Engi- neering ISophomorel French 1 French 2 French 10h French 20b 2:00 1', :H. German ;, 1 SophomorP, Junior, Senior) Mathematics 2 1Iathematics 12 Montiu~·. !\Ia~· 26, !l:ll:l A. l\1. English 1 t Pt ofessors Herrick's Weeks' and ilf1. His:op's sec- tions will l'Pport to the Chem- istry Laboratory. mom 2011 English 10 2:00P.M. Biology 2 Building Cons! I uction Electrical Engineering Theory (Senior) English 25a, b French 20a Latin 22 Ph:ysics 21 Ph:ysics 33 Spring i,; election tinw at nwn~· othrr colleg-p,; besides Cnion and other college papers hme found election p1·oblems on theil· campus with which to deal. \\'Pt:nt-..,du~·. l\ln~ 21. 9:00 A. :\1. Backg10und of Modern Lif£' <Sophomore l Biology 22 ·Conct·ete Social Studies 27 Social Studies 51 The Concordiensis reprints one typical editorial from the exchanges. A word of explanation might Le necessa.n· for the con·ect interpretation of the editorials, fm· Lehigh today has an election system much like that of Cnion. The Concordiensis believes that the editorial reprinted is worthy of consideration by students. CAMPAIGNS-AGAIN? Last year, the Brown and \\'bite came out editoria.lly in favor of the present election system because we were con- vinced that the old political campaigns determined popularity and influence !'ather than qunlifications for a j.ob. Arcadia decided ::\Ionda.v night to give the new system another try although some ol.>j ection has been mised to this new method of selection. Come to think of it, ho\\'ever, the old s~·stem had some Electrical EnginPE'I'ing ThPory <Junior) English 23 Greek 11 Latin 2 Mathematics 24 Physics 2 Physics 3 Physics 23 Social Studies 39 Social Studies 48 Structures Thursday, May 22. 9 :OO A. M. Background of Modern Life (Junior) Biology 23 Chemistry 23 French 21 German 10 Greel{ 21 Mathematics 1 Mechanical Design DENTISTRY The, f:Pltl r.f tletttistry offers tu c·nllt.>gt> ~tttdL•IJts an attraeti\•e ea- rL·t·r. It JWU\'i<le:-; a worthy intt'llec- tual l'hallenge, a. lifP of prc;fessimtal ~t-r\'i<'t> \Vith :;:a tisfa.ctory income, and an opportunity fnr re~eareh and teac~~1i11g: Ill tlli~ tll\\il'lion of medit•al Slf.'il-'Hl\P a Hd HI I. The t•ni\·pn .. ::).jty of PPtHitSylvania h.n ..... [H'eJraretl more than ~ix thou- sall\ll gradua.t~~ ·wllo art> oceupying pu~itiow..: o.f importa-Ju•e in thE:'- pro- fe:-:::-tion thrnul!'hout the worltl. Its <·ourHe of in~·ntwUon i~ of the high- P~t\ order Anyone intt·t~e-\Rtell in this prnfes- Binu aR a life work i!..: invitecl tn a-Il- ply fpr furthf'r infnnnatiml to Tho llP!l.ll of thP l'chool of DPntist.J·y l'nlHr•ily of !'on nsJ h'nuia 40th & Hpruro HtrP<'l' l'hll!!I!Pijlhin., Po. Biology 12 Chemistry 11 English 20 Mathematics 31 Mechanics <Junior! Psychology 12 Social Studies 23 Water Supply 2:00P.M. Social Stud.ies 2 Friday, Ma~· 30, 9:00 A. M. Biology 6 Engineel ing La'w < Senim· C. E.) Geology 22 <students will report to Geology Laboratory) German 20 Italian 1 La:boratmy < Seniol E. E.) Latin 11 Mathematics 22 Physics 31 Social Studies 32 Social .Studies 42 .Social Studies 45 Types of Construction Monday, June 2, 9:00 A. M. Biology 11 Chemistry 12 German 22a, b Gteek 1 Laboratory (Junior E. E.) Physics 2a Social Studies 31 Social Studies 37 Social Studies 47 Monda~·, June 2, 2:00 P. M. Geology 1 Geology 12 (students will report to the Geology Laboratory) Heat Engines Music Tuesday, June 3, 9:00 A. M. Social Studies 11 ---0---- SCENE Scene knows no story worth tell- ing this Tuesday afternoon or at least one that can go in print. Any- way Scene pi omises a column F1 i- day. Benny Friedman, FQotball Coach. 3:30-5:30 p. m. ·- Glee Club Re- hearsal, Hanna HaJl 5:00-6:00 p. m,-Public Speaking Class. Old Chapel. 8:00 p. m.-Lecture. Dr. Benj. Boss of the Dudley Observatory, Old ChapP!. \Crui~ing through the Milky Way\. Thursda~· 10:00 a.m.-William Edwards, '.Jl. 8:30 .p. m. -- ThUl'sday Musical Club Concert. William Hain, Tenor. Duquette-Scott Mr. and M1s. Thomas B. Scott of Schenectady announce the engage- ment of their daughter Robel ta to Bel nard T. Duquette, '42. Miss Scott is a sophomore at Russell Sage. No date has been set for the mai'- riage. PLACEMENT NOTICE 1 Section of Letter of April 18, 1941 \To Mr. Wyatt: \It is suggested that upon g1 actu- ation of your mechanical, electrical or chemical engineers, you advise them to get in touch with these Headquarters immediately and I shall ·be pleased to discuss their qua:ifications for commissions. If any of these young men come to New York, it is 1equested that you write a letter to the Commandant, Third Naval District, attention of Lieutenant Commander Collins, in w·hich you give your recommenda- tion for or against the applicant. These Iette1s will be treated confi- dential. \·Each graduate should have his eyes examined prior to making the long trip to New York and if they are below 15/20, it is not believed 0--- the journey would be worth theil DACl'NDO PLEDGED while. The Sigma Chi Fraternit;~o• an-I nounces with pleasure the pledging I of Louis A. Dacundo, '42 of Chester, Connecticut. Very truly yours 1 Signed) D. l\1. Collins Lieut. Comdt·. U. S. N. TI\ Coca-Cola has a delightful taste that always pleases. Pure, wholesome, delicious,- ice-cold Coca-Cola satisfies completely. So when you pause throughout tho day, make n rhc pause that YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY refresheswith ice-cold Coca-Cola. Bottled under authoritv ~fThe Cnca-Cnla Company by BOTTLED BY THE SCHENECTADY COCA COLA CO. .. ~c p: n v I E a 1

of e, io- '.Jl. cal of age- a to at 1941 adu- I their If to dant, of s, in cant. his the they ieved theii rr .. .., THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 22, 1941 Page Three men Have Trouble, But Beat Lafayette, 7-5 Goalie, Skidlllore and Heat Blamed \Weight~e~n~Hold I Netmen Nosed Out I Nine Tackles Mass. State Today; As . Garnet Lacr~ssers Peter-out IT . k T . . U 1 1n Opening Tests ! Moran Given Hurling Assignment Gulbert, Wikoff Ward-1·--------------- ---~II .rae earn p Lose to Haverford, 8-l; I --- -~ Score Tv:o Goa,ls Each Hen' Tomorrow Ketz's Premonitions Bow to Swarthmore, 9-0 1 r;:~=-=-=-~=-=-========ii In Lead1ng Attacks · -- Of Disaster Correct; Exctmiw to Tht> conco1·dy Duk(> gf Dorchester , \<hen Dr. Frederick L. Bronner ij\ • ~ • Victery No. 2 of the regular sea- !'_,.,.,, ........ ~.,.~~-.-.,_ ............. 7 .. ,, .... ,-.,.,.,,.,=,··\\'·\: 1 ! Panthers Win, 83-43 1 demanded to know yesterday \Who , rLtes, ~\~[Jpronng ::on found its way into tne Union ! 1 is that guy that's winning matches LaU'I\t'llCl' as Coach lac1osse record book Saturday, but ?' 1 Dill Ketz \'.as wearing tha·t \I fot· our tennis team?\ he was echo- not in the easy manner expected. :1 tDld you so\ expresoio~ Sunday; ing- the l[Uery that most Union 1 \Duk<'\ XPlson HI'PlllS tn hH\'P Before they succumbecl, 7-5, the 1 ···· ! 1 morn mg. but he wasn t exactly ! men were pas\mg around all week- 1 be-en as surprisPd as an~·nnP Lafayette Leopa1·d:; put up a gt eat 1 [t i 1 happy nbout the correctness of his , end when the news came in that I OH'r th£' r!'ct>nt •halu•Utl in fight and threw a scare into the un-J .~•_.' .. '···'·-·· i 1 r:: ediction that Cnion was going to: the tenni>: team had won one of l.'nion's athlt>tic >taft', of whi<'h beaten Dutchmen here. 1 ! i run into ti'oub:e in his opening 1 its nine matches with Have1·funl. hP w:ts a m<-'mht'i' a:~ rN'Pntl~· as Union started out accerdin;{ to 1 r,•., ! 1 track meet with :>1iddlebury. On their southern trek over 1 two ~·ears ago. Tlw R.P.I. mPn- schedule and took a 5-1 lead at 1 . i Ju~'. a .• Cc.ach Ketz had i;rcCict- Thur\tlay Friday, Saturday and 1 te-r hit>d himsl'lf to tht· t·.YlH\\\'rit- the half. Then the tide begun to 1 1 ed,_ .:Vl.Eidlebuty tJuk_ auv.l!lta~e _of :5unday, the netm~n had~ plea:-aut 1 1 J' and dm;hl'd off th<' following roll the other way. Some say it I Un1:;n' weakne,s Ill thl cmuer trip, but they d1d·n t b1·mg hona· I congratulatory comnnmiquP to was the heat. Others give Sam 1 tu:.!, to win, 83-1.3. at :\1kd.ebu1·y. :1nything faintly resembling a vic- Hal VHttnt•l': Simon, Lafayette goalie, the '.redit. 1 Vt., Satmday. CnLn scc.r2d only 14 tory. They ran into some ve1y I \DPar Hal: State Won! 6-4; Lawrence Delays Pick Of Hot-corner Starter . RogPI' :\!omn, ace righthander. i will do tht• tlinging this afternoon as l:nion opens it,; regular base- l ! bat: ,.;pa.un at Amher't against ).!a.-oachusetts State. I ;:5tate :;hapen up strong, as uBual, I but will pl'obably fincl :.\.10I·an pretty , stingy with the base-hits. The , ::itate~ml'n bt•at Connecticut, 6-4, in th<·ir opening game Saturday. They \vill bP ~eeking their eighth vic- . Wty in the 113-game ;cel'ies which they began with Union back in HJ13 . Start<>rs ChosPn Still others blame it on the tough '. ~oint~ ami f?'ilcd to gain a dngle, tJugh opposition kom Swa1·th-1 \I just rPad of SPls\s appoint- night half the team spent at Skid- 1 11:£! m I unnn:g e·.-ents. 1 more and Haverford. nwnt to thP Colby [!Osition in more .prior to the contest. Anyway. 1 1t \\.as thl' \.e.ght men who held 1 A~ a matter ot fact, Ken :-lharpr I .Maine' and Art Lawrt•nc1•'s ap- Cc.ach Art Lawrence had de- Lafayette crept up to C-5 be:· 01 e the Garnet team up. They took and Ted Vinick were the b\P who' pointnwnt to tlw hPad foothall cided upun all but one of his :;;tart- the Dutchmen recovered their equi-1 I three fir,-t.,; a.nd :;hared another in · a~counted fol' Union's ion<' victoiy' coarhing positinn at l'nion. er~ thi.- morning, !Jut will wait un- librium and staggered to victory. i the six event,; they competed in. of the trip. They won thoi•· double~ 1 \I'm ·~urE• Art will hP a <'l'Pdit · b f h · i Gus :.\lorri:;;on tied with Trasl{ of event agaimt HaverforJ to malt~! t:J \Cnfon and to tht• eoa<\hin!~ I til abuut game time c 01 \ ,. <>usmg Goulie TrouhlPsomp 1 :\lr.l··'dlebui\' fo1· fi't·•t 1'n the n, ole 1 , the sco1e 8-1. Next ·'a'·, \ , 1 f · I 'II 'h f I I bPtween. \\\'hitey\ Caonnnight and - u J - u , ·~ u pro r• swn am WI P succe-;~ 11 I Stan 1 Zip 1 Steingut as his thirtl Goalie Simon survived a :;haky 1 , vault and placed ,econd in the; the team ran into even tuugher j at his nc•w joh. I wish to offN baseman. He nametl Frank Jones start to turn in a brilliant perfor- high jump to Pete PlummPI'. \IValt ·competition and lost. 9-U. rou m.v conwratula.f.ions on sP- I ' \ as .\l01an'::; batte1·y mate and mance for the visito·r'. stopping 19 · Breed won the javeHn throw and 1 ' Commenting on the showing he. lt•eting o;o fine a fpllow as Art to I h d G h ·1 h' 1 picked Don quigley to take fi1·st ar arnet s ots wh1 e IS mates AI Cal_ lan and_ Bund\ Shaw tied for I and hi:; team made, Pla,·ing ;\fa,l- <'tt.rl'~\' _on thP ,,f<:othall traditions ·' c c ' ' LO I 1 ba~l'; Ned He illy, ;,econu; o- ap- were making a sieve out of what first m the dJ:icus heave. ,·agel' Phil Potter declared that of lmon. . . . '[ k \ R hl h . I tain \:<. ic ey at ev, s ori<'top; Coaches Wyatt and Paul are pleas- -- ------ The Men of Ketz open theil' home· lac-k of timing and confidPnce I \HincPrPly yours, AI Rasw, left field; Earl Raif- ed to call their defense. Union's C C N Y C h S k season Saturday, opposing the Uni-. cal.'fed their downfall. Summaries , _______ \\..:.\-.:...':.:al:.:w.:..::.r_.:_'J:... . ...:N..:.'.:...<>l:::s..:.o.:.:n_'_' I danger, center field, and Co-Cap- two goalies, Bob Marshall and Co- , , , , OaC pea S vezcJt,. of Ve1·mon.t. Summa1·1·es of 1 , of the two matches follow: 1 , ' h fi d ~ J K lain \Tiny\ Weintraub, ng t el . Captain Dud Holmes, made eight In Chapel Tomorrow Saturday's meet: tTwo-mi!e results I Haverford --- Newhall I Hl beat: Beer Bests eers saves, but had a little trouble st0p- unavailable. Middlebury won all 1 Keeler IU) 3-6, 9-7, 11-9; Goerke ping the pellet. three places.! ,' IHl beat Sharpe IUl 6-1. 6-4: Swan In Softball Duel Lafayette was bottled up in its· Benny Friedman, former cap- d 6 6 Free Delivery h If f th fi ld f th fi . tain and All-American quarterbacl~ 100-Yard dash - Hicks. Middle- I' IHl beat Woodwar IUl _-1, -2; Scmes came down a bit a: the Phone 4-7445 own a 0 e e or e rst bUI''\ I-Iolli'<teJ', ~li'ddlebui\''• B1·eed, ·,Blackwell I H) beat Hutchms <Ul · f b 11 t ·' 't el .o-ht m·nutes as th un 1 · 0 at the Univel'citt· of Michigan. will J • \' J mtramural sot a loop en ereu 1 s b 1 · e n re- ' Union 10.4. 3-6, 6-4, 8-6; Vila IH) •beat Potter d k d h · h b \ serves, who started the conte,t, srea_k tommTow in daily assembly secon wee an t e p1tc er:; e- ' bombarded the Leopard cage Ron- He 1 s now head football coach at 220-Yard tla.£h - Hicks, Middle-! IUJ 6-1, 6-4; Flaccus IHl beat Sher- gan to as~e1t their mastery owr i, nie Macomber scored in 1 : 33 and: C.C.N.Y. . bury; HC'Ilider, Middlebury; Davis,. man tU) 6-2, 7-5; Sharpe-Wood- the batsmen. Co-Captain \Blackjack\ Guibert: For th_ree ye:lls Fnedman play- Union. 22.8. i ward I Ul beat Swan-Flaccus t Hl One hurle1· in particular was out- followed with two more goals to 1 ed vars 1 t;; _quarterback on the 1~0- Yard dash -- Butle1·, Middle-; 6-1, 6-1: Hallett-Stamton I) Hl standing. He was Avery Beer. ster- g ive Union a 3 _ 1 lead at the end great Michigan_ va.rs 1 ty_. _bei_ng bury; B. Gale, :Middlebury; Lewis,, beat Wcodward-Keeler IU) 7-5, 6-2; ling Kappa Alpha twirler wh-o 11 Unl ·on. \1.5. ·, and• Goerke-Vila IH) beat Beik- t 1 a t 1ds o'li'no- of the first period·. Two goals- by named ~ -AmeriCan Ill his J~mor 880-Yaurd t·un --Morehouse, Mi'·'dle- i Hutchins lUI 6-2, 7-5. wen a ong w y owa. ~p I .., Fred Wikoff put Union ahead by and semor. yea_rs and captammg u Delta Updlon's hopes for the in- I, 5 _ 1 at the halfway mark the team m ms lmt season. He bury; Orton, Union: Hawkes, :Mid- Swarthmore-Buckman IS) beat tramural trophy by fetting them: L- . ;t • • had previously gained the All- dlebu!'y, 2:4.4. 1 Sharpe tUl 6-0, 6-4; Miller ISl down with th1ee hits, winning 6-2. afa;vet e C1eeps Up State quarterbacking post while a Mile run - Parker, Middlebury; 1 beat Keeler IUl 6-3, 8-10, 6-1; May- Yesterday's other games mw • The visitors scored once in th.: member of the Glenville High Stetson, Middlebury; Kin\ey :\.'lid- field IS) beat Woodward il:l 6-0. Sigma Chi put on a !'ally to nil'\, third session and three •in;c~ iil Schcol team in Vleveland, Ohio. dlebury. 11:94. 6-0; Riley IS) beat Hutchings <Ul Alpha Phi Delta. 6-5, in a thriller. : the final period. But for twa goah Professional football was bright- High hurdles Bat eo··, Middle bur,-; 6-4. 6-2; Hecht 1 S l beat Sherman and Sigma Phi d'owned Phi Sigma , by Ed Ward, in the same chapter, ened by Ft iedman s performances Rasmu~sen, :>iiddlebury; Bothwell, 1 Ul 6-1, 6-0; Dugan 1 SJ beat Vin- K:appa, 5-1, in two and a half in- 1 the match would have ~one into for a number of years. He was al- Union. :26. ni<:!k 1Ul 6-2, 6-1; Bucl,man-May- nmg. Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUr< MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction 11 • ove-rtime. His last, with th1·ec r:.in- ternately a membel' of the De- High jump - Plummer. Union: field I Sl beat Woodward-Hutchins Friday's scores follow: Neu- utes to play, took a great load off trcit, Cleveland. and New York ~1orri:oon, Union; Rooney, :Middle-, (lJ) 6-3, 7-5; Blanshard-Riley IS) trals 11. Kappa :Nu 1: Phi Delta the collective mind of lhe 100-udd 1 Gjant eleven•. The.n he became 1 hury. 5 ft., 7 in. beat Starpc-Viniclt < Ul 6--3, 6-2; 1 Theta 6, Phi Sigma Dt>lta fi, and 598 B'way _ For Better Values Gar'net rooter•. g.rid coach at C.C.N.Y .. where foot- Pcle vault---Traslt, Middlebury; , and Miller-Hecht tSl beat Potter- Phi Gamma Delta 9. North Coi- Guibert, W~rd and \Vilwff Ecored 1 ball writers eay he has done won- 1 Mcrri>on, Uni:m; _Davis, Middle- Sherman I C) 6-1, 6-1. llee~g~e~O_<~f~o~r~fe~i~t~l·~--------~==============~ two goals ap1ece to le~d -~he \;1~1- d~rs with poor material In 193_7.1 bul'J:· 10 f_t., 9 .Ill. Tie for. first. .. J r===============; - m_ng attack. :\1acombel h~~l-:Pd .~~I hi\ c 1 ty C'?llege eleven. tur11:ed m E10a~ JUmp-:- Bates,. ~1cdlebur~ .' w1th one goal and an 'l,~1,l. r~I the best gnd 1 e~otd of Jb hi>tJiy. I Lt~ndn~an. ,;-\VI!ddl!'bu_J~. Roone~. Interested in Schmectady Interested i11 U1\'!0N Lafayette. Arch Ackroyd .llld ,... ugh' I winning fiV(' of sev!'n games. .\liddlebmy. ~0 ft .. 1 m. Brown divided the scoJ·>ntr With _ 0 Shotput V'.'!tt:in. Middlebury; two and three goals, respe• ti,ely 1 t 1 D Shaw. l.'nion; Davis, Union 42 ft. Union had the ball in Laiay••tt•' n ramura ope :3', in. •New .:Viidd!ebury record.! MAURICE B. GRAUBART territory 30:24 of the GO mi:111tes, Commi:·•ioner Kct' nnn'lunre; ; . ~iscu3 Shaw,. Union; Callan. Tltr Jay Street Je'IJ.·eler accordino- to Bill Weller. rhkf <1f th 1 , b' , .. h f !\: .,. , l:l;:on; Ferren, Middlebury, 103.1 \ . ·' ' . . . , Th C' .onoi a .c UlnC a! gC' o ot '.. ft 'Tie for first l Ted ScantlebUI} s- tatisticJan.- e: Col~ege from the intrmural s::Jft-~ · . . · . . eummary: . b 11 . , M . S 1 Bl h Javelin Breed. Unwn; Sy.d1cle,. TJn\ I afa,Ptt!' I h~d •brat_ UP •• ab· tllagtPI fi ad t er mbfn :>Hddlebury; J. Gale. ]l,iitldlebury.' ,_ 1 on , •' , \ een una e n n en a e- 1166 10 _ ft IH Corby . . . . . . . . . . ....... SteelP 'bodied 1 e~1·uits. -~-- _ ·_ OH Dwyer ................ Walsh I lA Guibet·t ......... Brown, Fourth r-ound of handball must I :·ong !i';ewise .. Pail'inRs ~re po~ted Panoff , ............ Campbell: be rompleted SaturdaY. Fir 1 !'ound 1m the gymnas.um Intm::nur al man- 166 JAY STREET Watch a11d Je:v.:e/ry Repairill{l a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS Griffith ............. Ack10yd: \PIing ten\ is and ne;;t JOund ring, a·~er~ mu:ot >Cl\ that the>v conte:;ts Clowe Hermann __ ·are cleanetl up. 1 2D :>1ara .. Hoover ;-;=;;;:::::;;;::::::::=:::;:-;;;:::::--:::;: -=~==~=~=-=· -:;::-:;::--i;:-~-~~-==-============;;;:::::~;;;:;::::;::::::;;;:::;:~ ..,..~~- 2A c 1D p Macomber · · · · · · · · · · Ginople IDEAL BARBER SHOP 1 1 ,~· ~~ ~~~ 1 L 1 • CP Enstic<' .. . . .· .. Stillman DINE GROVE DAIRY INC G MarJhall .............. Simon 448 State Street If' li · I 1 • Score by peri~ds · -Our Service is Ideal I ~~j~~et·t~ .. :::::::::: i ~ ~ L~ --Just Try One Haircut 1 I 61 ER!~ BOULEVARD PHONE 4-7741 1 1 l Fir,t pcrj0d. ::\i~comb<>~· •Cl. 1·33; Brown 1 Ll. B:2:i: Guibe1t il:l.ll:t6; Guibert 1U1. 12:05. Second period: Wikoff 1UJ. 11.46; Wikoff 1Ul. 20:fi2. GET YOUR CAR - Third period: Dtown ILl, 9:18. Fourth period: Ward 1 Ul. 20 56: Brown ILl, 22:12; Ackroyd 1Ll,' 24:02; Ackroyd !Ll. 25:20; Ward IN TRIM FOR TRIP HOME Keeps Them Coming to Our Fountain Quality and Service __ .. -1; .. 1Ul, 27:37. Substitutions -I Union l ~Griffith, Norris. Wikoff, England, Ward, I Nothacker, Newton, Bal5h, Thurs-J DOUW Fa ID~F!'_ KUAII ton, Weed, Ostrander, Molloy, IIJ)Ibjl;, ~~~ l't BRANDHORST PHARMACY PHONE 4-6202 Thomson, Davis, Timson, Gilmore 1 and Helmes. 1Lafayette)-Shepard,. . \0 h C \ U • S d G'll • Williams, McMeen, Textor. Clachko.. Open Until 11 P. M. n t e Orner · niOn t. an I esp1e 601 UNION STREET Saves By :Marshall. seven: \ SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ~H~u~l~m~e~s~-~o~n~e~:~S~im~o~n~,~l~D~-========~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~i~l~_=============~==~=~==-~===_==========_== __ = __ =_=_=_=~=--== __ =_=_==_=~==========~1 Call Ball and Ball Will Call PHONE 6-3456 GAZETTE PRESS Printers MAZDA LAMPS ALL SIZES and COLORS Staples, Paste, Liquid and Dance Floor Wax T elechron and Big Ben Clocks Clark Witbeck CoG 416-419 STATE ST. PHONE 4-4161 I ' ' . L __ \\ere's tbe rehes\\hW, treat ~ou rea\\~ go ior~~ de\\c\oUS DOUBlEM\Nl ~~e- - th call1Pus -o· gbt in step Wl TnA' 'PlentY of J.lol :M,lN'f Gu.~. .... that's DOUBLE well f.un. to cb.eW xeh:esb.in.g flavod.r. SoUBLEMlN'f fits all d. An D ,, f.ter ever.Y ay · ''bull sessions, a 1 occasions- Chewing b.e ps class, during gyn.:_·h 'B.el:ps brighten :r breal · l\U.le sweeten. you A d. it cos\:.s so 1 you:r smile, t~o. ;oUBtEM1NT GUM you can en loY 1 'Tiackages today. B Y 58 vera s:- v-Es dall.Y· u: I i I i . I ·----.:......------------~--~-'-~

Page Four THE CONCORD'lENSlS, TUESDAY, APRIL 22, 1941 Wilson Speech Topic of Empire State Town Forum a Men .Interviewed 1Gooiman Tops Poll I \National Total Security Plan Outlined by G.E. Head Discussed Informally l'ichu·Pd ubovP are tlw four nPw memb€'rs of l'hi Beta Kappa tf\Hing· how they hudgPted their thnP and yet managed to lead in tlw·ir rPspecti\·p activitit\s. L. to R.: A. AJ.·thw· Davis, Laslmr ~chwartz, Uoyd 8cWoop and John Lewis interviewed by Solomon Om· Benny Goodma.n a.nd com· pany, now on a triumphal maiden tour of the leading colleges of N1e countl'Y which will bring his newly revamped band to Union on May 9, won first p1.ize last week in the na- tion-wide poll on dance orchestlas conducted by .Swing magazine. Helen Forrest, former songstress of Artie Shaw's orchestra who will be f.eatured as vocalist at the Jun- Ior Prom, also garnered first honors of her class in .the same poll. Not' long before, Art Burnstein, his slap bass, won second place in p01ls sptmsmed by Metronome and Down-Beat, from which competition Union College departed from the typical forum style of discussion in its 72nd weekly Empire State Town Meeting hc1c today and substitutPd a \cracker-ban el\ ·lliseussion of thl' nationally d-iscussed methods of ac·hieving \Tota.J Security\ proposed by Charles E. Wilson, pr!'sident of the Gene1·al Elt>rtl'ic Company. This topic had been dbcussed ·both by the Philomatheans and in PJ'Of. Campbell's classes. Blt\chman l\lanaging Editor of The Concordiensis. _______ Charlie Christian emerged as most - --- ·- ---- --- ---- ------ ---· - popula1 electric guitarist. P1 in.cetonians recently voted his band ~he most enjoyed orchestra that has ever appeaJ·ed at any of their cam.pus affairs. His :Sextet, whi·ch replaced his old Quattet, An engineer, Clinton J. Hixon, a building contr·artm. Chatlt•s Noo- nan. a busine;;s man Iand author of the \Olney Redmond P!an to J:o:nd UnemploymPnt Permanently\> OJ. ney Redmond, a 1·eprcsentative of organized labor, Herbc1·t :0.1. :O.lenill. and a profPssional man, Hany G. Coplon <a lawyPr) .presented their vi£'WS on :0.11'. \\'ilson,; p10posal for industry providin~ \full time t>m- ployment for all emp;o~ables,\ and other measure,; t.o achieve \physical The situation is PXtl\Pmeiy criti- • -- clicked instantly, As for \Benny\ cal for H!'itain ~aid 'v\'illiam L. I h d f , himself, his popularity was only William Shirer Sees 'Dark Futu,re' But Says 'Hitler Can Be Stopped' Sl'itPr. C.ll.S. romment.atot·, jour· Met 0 S 0 Appointment equaled by his playing. nalist, and author, before a large Of Tax Group Described One of :the happiest results o.f his audiPllC'P at :\!Pmol'ial Chapel. I<'ri- · latest musical successes for Union dav night. <Continued flom Page ll has been, however, the resultant ill'. Shirer. who has had many taxes remained in tne hand.:; of the eo-ot C:ination of instruments now ypaL'' of experience a:o. a foreign student body. tdeally suited to ·play the best in con<:>\pondent and who returned Later, this same group persuad· danceable music. Now that the boys frurn Gt>rmany last December, ed the council to authorize an in· have really had time to size each ~poke on the >ecT<'CY surrounding vestigation of the handling of ac· other up, the ·College is sure to find events deVt•loping in Nazi Ger- tivities' fund·s. The report presented them in top f·orm, and well worth many today. He showed how well by the investigators remains today, the $6.60 ticket pdce <including ·capitalistic Modifications thE' German war machine is still virtually without change, as the tax> or even the $7.00 cost starting security.\ :O.lt·. Hixon agn'L'd wi.th :-.1 1 . \\'il- clicking, and abo that it is not constitution of the student tax com- .\lay 5. son that thPIP :;hould hP ~om<' mod- being hampered by either the laclt mittel'. The authut'.> of this report In a recent interview with re- ification of th•• P\'\\nt C'apitallst of <.>st>ntial war matt>riab or by db<- put little fait11 in elections, feel· porters of the \Rensselaer Poly- -system an<! offPl'P<l .thl'<'<' ,;ugges- >atrstactlllll among- the German ing that th~ inveterate politicians technic,\ Goodman assuwd R. P. I. tions; \First that we dt•v••lop sorial pl·ople within the country. who might be e.t\etl'd wele not nee- students who are to heal' him on dynamic equilibrium. throu~h co- l:!egmning 'Atth a talk .. on propa-~ esoarily the typ<> of mPn b<:>st fitted :\!lay 10 that, \The band is pretty opPrati\'<' dll'eks and balanct>s up••r- ganada and tlJt• strict Cl'llSOI'>hip for the pu~ition. well set now, and I doubt that we'll a ted .both by g!O\'t•rnnrt•nt and in· tmpo,;ed by t hl• Nazi I e;.:tme, whose Dr. Bennt'\t, outlining the procc- make any more changes. Our new custn. -\<'l'OIHI that industrv , . .,_ cfticti~l n·pol't,; are \lies ·by ummis-1 du1e fullowL•d by the tax commit- outfit has a smoother style than opeta·t;· with g:>V<>Jnnwnt to ;.,tah- stun:' the Journa!J;t pJ·ou•<>ded to tE'P in making the recon1menda· ever .before, but we still put in the :ish ·~ardsticks' fur ·,;pJf IPgulation; JPCPnt events and their rmportance tion~. ~aid that the wurl' b begun ·old stuff' to please the kids.\ and third. t·hat we organize a na· in the final outcome. He :oaid in Decembe1· of each year. List~ of Seated in hi,; dressing room on tiona! a\enn fur cuurdirmtin~ !abo! furthet· that the qukk collapse· of prospects are dt·awn up independ- the fifth floor of the Pa1·amount in and ptuJuctiou to fUJnish 'full tim<\ one millwn Yu~o,;,av' in ei~ht day> entlv bv each member· of the in- his \thtone\, a comforta·bly battered emplu) nwnt 1 m all empluyabJp,;\ came as a complete surprisP, and cun{beni committee, including- the o:d le<ither armchail, the \King of :\lr. Redmond, lilte most uf tlw hP .puintPd out that the United prP>ident of the student body, a .Swing\ ta·ced an unmade bed and otheJs -p!ai:<Pd ;. 11 . \\'·ibon as an in· Ststes conststs of only three mil- member ex-officia. The total num- a wailful of assorted minors. Be- dustnal leader fot ptoposlll~ tlw lion men. ber of names, reduced by duplica- low one of these on an improvised plan :by saymg, \he is one uf tlw ThP C'.B.S. C'ommentatu1· <'Xplain- lions and removal:; for ,;cholarshin shelf lay the names and addresses few outstandin~ busines~ men who cd thP fault~ of the \renown ell\ weakne,;s, usuallv amounts to about of pl ominent musicians, two dress . f 1 . Stuka bombPr\. ,;tating that \they a half dozen. The>E' men are in- shirts, a s.·pecl·al pa\S to ·Ca1·neo1·e has a 1 L\al VJsiun o t ll· p1 t>.:--\'1 ng - \\ ~ need..; fur all ttw pt>uple nf AmP!· at··· no good when the enem~ ha,; a dividually interviewPd by the in- Hall, and a formidable pile of tele- iC'a.\ HP apprPriatP<l .tli~ rPstraint fair for;·p of fightmg plan~s be· cumbent eommittee, and the ap- gtams made J·eally impressive by a from tallting in glowing gen<:>ta.I- cause \thc>y at·p ,;low and thPy are pointment~ by the Student Council last minutP addition fJ·om Lisbon itie>s. such a.~ is ·the custom of thosP vulnetab!P when they <:>omP out of president made on thP basis of the Portugal. rept·ei<enting thP UnitPd States :1 dive.\ Hr rPported. hoWP\·N. that accumulated information. Thirty-two and u n m a 1 . r i e d, ChambPI' of CommPrCE' and t.hP .:\-la· thP Allit>d air fore\'· which is con- Tax committee w01·k. Dr. Ben- \Benny\ evidently still has an eye tiona! 11 anufrwt.ut·cr·'\ A~\odatinn.\ stantly inereasing, still ha\ too few n<'tt concluded, is \uch specialized fol' pretty girls. When asked as a plan•·s a till ha~ dotH' littl\ damagt> wut k that thP ,,OJ>Ulal i~y contest;, Hnal <JUestion about the the \kind AgrPt\S \\\ith \\\ilson to (i!'l mall~' dtlll'!l\ tl\ 0 lll···htl~· at'!. t n•h' h I t' d I f ~ ' .., o ,· JC .many e ec wns are re uc- d women he preferred\ he answer- l' wou not resu t in the best men <>d immediately, \BJUnettes\, adding Agrel'ing with :O.lr \Vi:son's pro- raid>. d Jd 1 posal fot· \giving full time <•mplo~ · \How they do it?\ wa\ thP next for the positions. mot·e ... slowly, \and I like them ment of all emplll~abll•s\ through qupstion whieh tllP Berlin em· ----------- 1 d h d d . d . we I one\ Prom .prospectors hear sue Pvices as rre 1t an pncc> rP'pondPnt attempted to explain. t I · · f' · h 1 · t }e! Listen to the maestro, bo\S. con to agamst m ,atwn. e pmg o Ht' attributPd the \spreading of J develop South Americ>a':; temp<:>rate tPrror.\ thP \su;wrio 1 · under;tand- SILVER DIN'ER zone, mort> and better housing, ing nf all ,.idp,; of the war,\ and \more good,; and mm·c services fm tht> PxcellenC'<:> of the GPrnran army more peoplP at less l'OSt. !.\lh. Red· which \ha.- not bern reached by mond addPd thesP r<'commenda· any in the wotld fm· powe1·. ,;peed tions: \Plimination nf I?VeJ'Y slum in and rxPcUtion\ as thE' reasons for America ... bettPr Jecleatiunal fa· tlll' Nazi victories. Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper. One Step frorr State Streei ciHties for the increasing lei~ure A it houg-h no popu!ar enthusb::m ------ -- - manl<ind wEI ha\·c in nm·mal time~ for thE' war Pxi~ts, thE' \GPrman ¥\'\\'\\\\\'\\\\\\\\\'\\\\\'\\\'~\\\\\\..... ... building a modNn PxprPss, toll· moml<' is still pretty good\ be- boulevat·d ,;ystem tht uughout the caU>P the peoplP do nothing about nation\ nut only to bring \our .high- their de;ires for pPaPP. Three rPa- way S)stem up to date for IE'CJUiiP· sons statPd by the objertivP Mr. 111Pnts of the modern hi~<h spPed Shi1 e1 regm ding the la.~ting of Hit- auto travel.\ but ai,;o to p1 ovidc lPr at<' tht> GPrman\ goal toward \million:; of additional tPmporary unification, their avrng~d defpat of jobs and hundreds of thou~ands of !91X and thcir prefereneP to win pe1·man<:>nt jobs and ·bui!C:ing and with him . than fare sumPthing 1 maintaining which could ·bp made wh1rh woutd \mal<e <he treatv of practically ;;elf - sustaining.\ VPt·>aillPs look \'e!·y swept\ · MI. Merrill expt essed doubt that Bn•ad. potatoe>;;, 'and rabhagP arE' PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS I \Mr ... ~ilson's '<.>nlight~necl a~so- staple> Grm:an foods - and the peo- ct.atl'~ ' among mdustJ.tal lPacPJS plc UJ'(' :oatl>'liPU bl'cause they are 206 cl· t St giVE' htm full suppcn·t 111 carr~ ing acPUMomed to thi' mean ct·iet. Onlv m on . out. hi~ plan to achievE' \T?tal SP-~ clothing and leather are bady nPPd- Sch'd_yJ! cunty, wh1ch, however, I.< \ap- t•d. added :\1L Shit er. - .----- plauded by trade-unionists\ Mr. \H<> can be >topped!\ wete the .----------------l Men ill maintained, howevPr, that 1 C'oncluding words of the journalist, \'the demoPratiC' way of lifE'.' which I alluding to thP h: avadoPs of the should be industJ ial dc>mocracy, ;;o ! Fr<'nchmen ag thE' British werP far as the workPrs of this country bombing Calais, even cheering, as arP concerned. is fa1· mm·p cons·ist- :Vlr. Shi·rPr >aid. \the oomb that ent with ·ePmnctati~ ro!lerti\·ism kill,; them.\ DeWITT'S LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM \Ve SPrve BetPr Food for BPttN Health 118-120 ,JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall than with any 'f1 PP C'ntPt·pt isP s~ s- tem' which mi~usPs thP won! 'fl·pe' · to covPr up thE' PXplnitat inn nf thE' 1 many for the bPnefit nf th£' few. I Franltly, I'm for t·hP sort of CPmor- · racy favm·pd by EmPst BPvin .. ! and other leaders of thP Bl itish ! I la.bor move>mPnt ... and hv Brit- 1 ain's li'beral Archbishop of York 1 who holds that pl'ivatP ownPr•hip 1 ':'.----------------~ of the earth's grPat natnl'Rl I'<'· Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 I sources is a 'stumbling bloPlt to I progress.' ... Professor FrPdC'l'iC'It I L. Schuman of Williams Col!!'ge is I rig-ht in deelaring that ·~orialism · and intPrnationalism at·p thl' onlv: weapons fot· changing thE' future': : Unquestionably Favored! General I. ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM Ice Cream Corpe l I Just right in blending to give the flavor of perfect beer. That's PHONES: Enterprise 9875 Albany 4-5411 Troy 44 Incorporated The Lee-ding Distributors F 0 R BELLEVUE DAIRY SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. RECORDS i 47 JAY STREET ICE CREAM DAIRY PRODUCTS ENGRAVERS FOR WM. GREEN JR. DAIRY 1701 Union St. Tel. 3·2161 Retzu·n.s to 1-larvard Douglas P. Dryer, Instructor in Logic, will return to Harvard nt\xt tall to do graduate work and· complete his thesis for ·his Ph.n., after a two year instruc- torship at Union. Mr. Bryer re- placed Mr. JosP]Jh Rotundo who was doing graduate worlc Democracy Codes . Unity Symbols Observance of Rigid Adopted Ceremonial Impor-tant, Says Stanley Although democratic ceremonials are often \nonlogical much de- pend,; on their observance in bring- ing Americans together in \one resolution that the ways we stand for and the ways we aspire to shaH not perish,\ Dr. Phi'lip Stanley, as- sociate profe2sor of philomphy, told Union College undergraduates in daily a~sembly Saturd:ty. There exist definite ceremontals of democracy just as their are formal manHers of religion, sport, the learning process, and the fam- ily, Dr. Stanley explained. These codes celebrate the great symbole of the flag, the courts, the \people\ that Lincoln loved, and th~ free- doms which di~tinguish \our way\ from other \orders·· in this divene world. Importance StressPd \As the crises deepe!ls, as mi- T welve States to Hear norities the world over lo:;e thP. right and duty to expres~ dis,;cnts Prorn Band Broadcast and to wot·k peaceably for bPtter alternatves, these ceremonials take (Continued hom Page ll on deepeJ' meanings,\ the philoso- tion of the preEent World War. pher declared. With this thought in mind, the col- Dr. Stanley concluded his well lt>ge, together with the Prom Com- received talk with a justificaticn of mittee, is presPnting to thE' student cet emonials, symboiE of fa nth in body an exceptional weekend with the nation's in~titutions and lead- the foremod band of the country l?rs. He oaid: playing fo1· the Prom itself and \The logic of liberty or democ- with two opera stars giving con- tacy is much better lf'ft to tho~e certs and the Mountebanks present- expel'ts in the courts who£e busi- ing \Three Men on a Horse.\ With npss it is to interpret it reopon- such a weekend in the offing and I sibly. WP can love and wo1·k and with the call from the draft board fight fo1· 'democracy' without a :;o near to us all, no one can afford 1 c!Par cut definition of its meamng to .·taye at home.\ McCandless and without a hi~torian's under- said. standing of its development.\ ------------------------------ Hear ttA.Y E&Ett\.E . •s No. l •tb Arnenca w• d leader oance Ban GLENN MILLER II . ht serenade • \Moon\•9 ,n • N f'OR uN\0 TUES., WED., THURS. at10 p. fA. c. a. 5& Stations w \ v ' t

ey ia·ls de- one as- are esc bole ple\ ene mi- thP. take well of in moe- hose busi- and a w • • ¥-¥ ¥ ~ ¥ ¥- trnsts UNION UNI,ON EDITION EDITION Z-511 Joint Conference Concert Dinner 7:30 Saturday 6:30 P. M. X510 ======================~-~=========,~----_-------~-~-c~ --~~~~~--= PRICE FIVE CENTS Vol. LXIV., No. 49 l'NION 2·1200 FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1941 Favors For Prom Corrin~ Kramer Elected NewE~itor Skidmo~re Union Unite In Conference T 0 Be Awarded At 0~ 'Skzdmf!re Ne,ws' For Next Year • · ~ · , Roulette Tables ::r.:~i:~:;:·~.~~}:TtO:!t~~~· Editor '41-'42 Choir- Glee Club Concert and Dance Will Carry Union Seal; 12-lnch Loving Cup To Be Grand Prize \Every date a prize winner\ is to be the theme for the distribution of Prom favors, the Junior Prom Committee announced today. This new and sensational method of dis- tribution is a part of the general aim of the Committee to give to Union the greatest Prom ever to be heid upon the .campus. During the Intermission hour after the broad- cast of the Prom over Station WG Y the Dance will be trans:tormed into a Monte Carlo with four roulette wheels. Promgoers and their dates will play these wheels for one of the several hundred favors which will be set up in a very elaborate display upon four tables. Each tavor will be numbered in accord- ance with the numbers appearing upon the roulette wheels and each aate will spin the wheel for her own prize. worked on News smce her fresh- man year, was \overwhelmed\ when a caKe, cleverly decorated with · a ' front page in icing, done in t);le best \::lkidmore News\ style, was placed before her to announce the editorship. · Corky comes from Albany, stud-1 ied at Albany High School. T.htjre she was one o± the editors of the \t->atroon\, high school daily. She is a curly-haired brunette, and l:)er ravorite sport is mountain climbil).g. Next summer she plans to be a counselor at the Albany Girl Scout L:amp at I:<'ort Ann. She has been Assistant Editor of \News\ since her treRhman year, and edited last week's Junior .t-rom lssue. Corky says that her only athletic accomplishment at SltiC!- more was a Jetter in speedball which she received in her freshman year. CORRINE KRAMER Concert Scheduled for· 7:30 Tomorrow Night In Memorial Chapel Climaxing an eventful year•, the Skidmore Chorus and the Union College Glee Club will make their !ina! appearance of the season at a joint concert tomorrow night at 7:30 o'clock in Memorial C.:hapel. Tonight the Glee Club will sing before the Schenectady County Alumni Association at the Mohawl• Golf Club for the Alumni Scholar- ship Fund. The quartet will sing over WGY at 10:30 tonight. Dancing to the music of Larry Audette's Orchestra will follow the concert and should start arouna nine, ending at twelve midnight, Kenneth Mackenzie, co - chairman said. The dance is being financed by collecting six dollars from each fraternity on the campus and fif- teen dollar!:' from neutralL Alex- ander Arony, Edward Miller, James Stillman and Louis Loeb are col- lecting from the neutrals. The dance is a non-profit making af- fair and the money must be collect- ed to break even. -------b Opening Speaker DR. WALTER C. LANGSMI Langsam to Keynote 'What Is the World Fighting About?' Student leaders from 40 colleges will arrive on the campm today to take part in one of the first stu- dent-sponsored meetings to discuss national and international .prob- lems with which they are faced. The conference will mark one of the high points in a week-end of cooperation between Union Col- lege and Skidmore College, repre- senting the cloEest cooperation . of groups from. the two institutions ever achieved. After the completion of registra- tion at 6:30 p.m., dinner will be served at Hale House at which time the student leaders of the conference will be introduced'. At 8:30 p.m. the keynote address will be given by Profe::;:;or Walter C. Langsam, speaking on \What is the World Fighting About.\ He will be introduced by Dr. Fox. Discuss Foreign Policy On Saturday morning round- tables on American foreign policy will be held with Dr. Enrique S. de .B;very girl will get a gift. Four will be grand prize winners, and there will be one especially lucky female who will win the .first grand prize, a huge silver loving eup ap- proximately twelve inches high en- graved with the Union College seal. ~very favor to be given away will have the Union seal upon it and the L. G. Balfour Co. is standing behind every article to insure that it will be a gift that each student will be proud to have his girl re- A.sk her to tell you sometime about the various majors she·s had; they run the gamut trom liberal arts to bacteriorogy to business ana back again to hberal arts. She is the autnor ot the May Day pageant, ''T.he Growth of the American Spir·it\. Last year she was on So ph-_ omore Guard of Honor. As to plans for next year, she says, \There'll be no radical changes in next year's paper. I'll just try to keep it up to this year's form and make it worthy of this year's staff's trust in me.\ She intends to inaugurate a system whereby the incoming freshmen are .made aware of the importance \News\ has on campus, and are given an incentive to try out for an ovfice. be Circulation Manager. Assistant Editors will be Jean Poskanzer, Pat MacPherson and Janice Brooke. Lucy Armstrong will be next year's Advertising Manager, and Vera Brundage will be Business Man- ager. Skidmore Chorus Numbers 60 The Skidmore Chorus of sixty members, under the direction of Elmer M. Hintz, Director of the Division of Music, will open the program with \The Nightingales,'' Op. 37 by Saar. Miss Rima Rudina will accompany the chorus with a violin obligato. They will follow their first song with the DebUEsy- Harris \Starry Night\ and will close the first group with \Gypsy Minstrel,\ music by Brahms, words by Taylor. John lewis Named Valedictorian Lozada of the Political Science de- partment at Williams College, for- mer Bolivian diplomat; Dr. Mark Mohler, professor of political sci- ence at Skidmore; and Dr. David N. Rowe, lecturer in far eastern affairs at Princeton University as advisory experts. Student chair- men for the discussions, which will take place in Old Chapel, Hale House and Silliman Hall, will be William Cantwell of Williams Col- ceive. Unparalleled Event The Committee has announced that\the Union College Junior Prom will be the first dance of such ·pro- portions to use the Monte Carlo theme. The idea has been carried out on a much smaller scale ·by several fraternity and sorority groups at smaller affairs and it has always been met with such enthus- iasm and has caused such a sensa- tion that the Committee felt that• union absolutely could not .go with- out it. lt -rs ·believed that with the aid of the Balfour Co. a considerable amount of publicity will be given the Union !-rom all over the coun- try. Hans are being made now to have pictures taken during the playing for the favors and to .have these pictures sent to the \Col- legiate Digest.\ An idea as nov~! _as thrs cannot help i:lut get publiCity and there seems to ·be no doubt that the use of this theme will add a new spirit to the Prom itself, ~,;halrman McCandless said. ---o---- Prize Day Feature Of Tomorrow's Chapel Corky and Anne Mills, next year's Managing Editor, live next door to each other in Albany, so there is sure to be intense cooperation and colla;boration in running the \News\. Josephine Schwaab is Feature Editor, while Ma1y Woolwine will A prime faux pas was made by Muriel Williams, outgoing editor, who has been attempting to keep the editorship a secret for three weeks. When \The Concordiensis\ staff was at Skidmore, worldng on this issue, Muriel, in a lapse of memory, gave away the secr·et .by asking one of the staff to \Call up Tal Harding and see if she's got Corky's picture yet.\ Student Members Council Conclave Planned Elected To Discuss Jobs Union Representatives Will Choose President At Meeting May 7 Five Skidmore Grads To View Opportunities In Varied Fields Members of the 1941-1942 Stude::J.t Plans have bee::J. completed for Council were elected in three sue- the Alumnae - Senior Vocational cessive daily assembly programs Conference to be held in the Reo- this week. Five freshmen, eleven reation Center on Saturday morn- sophomores and seven juniors were ing, April 26. Five Skidmore grad- elected Wednesday. ' uates, who have been engaged in The freshmen elected three fra- different occupational fields, will ternity men and two neutrals. :Ed- meet irtf<itmally sertioi·s and other ·ward Allen, Delta Upsilon; Ropert .nterested students to discues with Haigh, Phi Delta Theta; and f::Iif- them the opportunities, qualifica- rord t-latt, Delta Phi comprise :the tions, job duties and other pertinent rraternity delegation, while Kar 1 facts about the vocations which Klarman and Richard McKenzie they represent. Dr. Burges Johnson, head of the make up the neutral group. Occupational Fields · English .uepartment, will deliver the main address at the annual Election Results The broad occupational fields in- 'll b elude those of secretarial work, Prize Day exercises which wr e held tomorrow morning in Me- Six fraternity men and five neu- commercial art work, nursery and moria! Chapel at 10 o'clock. Prizes trals from the sophomore class will primary school teaching, person- w ill be awarded for high scholastic have seats on the council next year. nel, and publishing. Dorothy Hobbs fi Id f The fraternity men include Robert of the class of 1939, who has been at tainment in various e s, or · d f Carnright, Theta Delta Chi; Paul· associated with the National City Comp etitive essay prrzes, an or , t Santee, Phi Delta Theta; George Bank of New York in a secretarial other outstanding achievemen s. < This event, which the climax of Weed, Delta Phi; Frederick Wikoff, capacity will lead the discussion · 't' ·n Chi Psi; William Wilkin, Si,...,!.,a for the first group. the Y ear's scholastic actrv1 1es, w_ 1 <>'t: h h Phi; and Henry Wysocki, Theta In the commercial art field, Jane be only part of the J?rogra~ w lC has been planned for thrs week- Delta Chi. The neutral represe~ta- Larmour, class of 1937, has had a tives are George Anderson, Hardld variety of experiences by moving end. · t f Bodenstab, John Duford, Ronald from job to job. She began as an Frederic A. Wyatt, Drrec or o Adml ·ss!'ons·, has invited sub-fresh- Macomber, and Douglas Slinger· assistant to the copy chief and ac- d land. count executive of Albert Frank- men from the vicinity to atten .an Guenther Law; then she did radio \open house\. w~e~end at Umo~ The juniors elected the following fan mail with Young & Rubisam, College. This rs similar to the reg fraternity men to the Student Coun- media work with Lord & Thomas, ular sub-freshman weekend, but cil: Avery J. Beer, Kappa AJ.pha; correspondent work in the beauty a special weekend has been planned Robert Davis, Phi Gamma Delta; department of Fawcett Publica- for those students in .this are~ who Edwa~d Enstice, Psi Upsilon; Rob- tions, sales department work with did not have the o~portumty to ert :Killian, Beta Theta Pi; Neu- Chilton Pen Company, designing visit the campus pre.vrously. .. trals: A!b.raham Dorsman and Ben- with Plastic Inlays, free lance ra- In conjunction wrth the open jamin Jakobowski. dio work and designing, librarian house\ there will ·be a F~thers ~ay A run off election ·between Louis in the research department of Program tomorrow dunng whrch d t h V e D'Acundo, Robert Newton and Newell - Emmett Company, and time fathers of the stu en s a · Peen invited to visit the college and James Peel will be held for the copywriting and art work with the third neutral place. Voting will (Continued on Page 6) observe college life, Music of the British. Isles will be sung by the Union Glee Club as the1r opening group. Their first se- lection will be Stephen Townsend's \The Vicar of Bray\ which tells of a 15th century l!:nglish church- man who turned from Papist to Anglican to Papist to Anglican so that he might remain the Vicar of Bray. This will be followed with \The Mimtrel's Song\ by Adam De la Hale, written in the 13th cen- tury. The tamed Scottish Folk Song '\Loch Lomond\ with Edwara Schulze, '42, singing the solo parts will precede the nnal number of the Glee Uub's first group, the 19th century h.nglish folK song of the coast of Cornwall, \The Cornish .v'iddler·s Song.\ College Trio to Play The Skidmore College Trio, con- sisting of Miss Jane Heid, at the piano, Miss Rima Hudina playing the violin, and Miss Marjorie Wat- kins playing the 'cello will play the \Fifth Trio, Op. 70, No. 1 (l:<~irst Movement)\ of Beethoven. The chorus will follow them with \Love's Trilogy\ by Robinson, \Pre- lude for Woman s Voices\ by Wil- liam Schumann, \Clouds\ by Char- les ,Deis, and \Ode to Musi~·· by Braon. French music will comprise the Glee (;!lib's ::econd offering. They will open with Henschell s \Morn- ing liymn,\ follow with Duparc's '\Dreamworld Reynaldo Hahn's \L'Heure Exquise\ in French and Gounod's \Song of the Golden Calf\ from his opera \Faust.\ The Glee Club and the Chorus will combine for the final group of the evening, singing Mendels- sohn's \How Lovely Are the :!.\fcs- sengers\ and \He Watching Over Israel.\ Both the chorus and the Glee Club have sung on extended tours this year. The club has sung in Schenectady, Albany, Troy, Great Barrington, Cobleskill,_ Greenwich, Binghamton, Jamaica, Passaic and before the New York Alumni. On March 20 the Skidmore Chorus sang in Town Hall, New York City. Breusch, Ruskowski, Schwartz to Deliver Commencement Talks John Prior Lewis, former ex- lege and Roger Marshall and John change student to St. Andrews Uni- Ruskowski of Union. versity, Scotland, was named to de- During Saturday's luncheon at liver the valedictory address at the Hale House there will be an in- 146th annual commencement exer- formal discussion on youth organi- ci.ses by a faculty committee from zations participated in by mem- 11 high ranking scholars of the bers of most of the well !mown class of 1941, it was announced to- youth groups. This will be follow- day •by Dean Charles F. F. Garis. ed at 2:00 p.m. by a Frequency Dean Garis released names of Modulation broadca:;t from Me- four stage appointees to compete moria! Chapel under the direction for the Blatchford Oratorical Med- of Myron Mills '42. als given to the two members of Corey to Speak the graduating class who deliver Saturday afternoon will feature the best orations at commencement roundtables on national problems. \regard being alike to their ele· Lewis Corey, writer, contributor to vated and classical character and \The Nation,\ and former educa- to their graceful and effective de- tiona! editor, ILGWU, will be ad- livery.\ Appointed are: Lewis; visory expert of a discussion on Gharles John Breusch. Jr.. John the basis of a democracy; Dr. Wil- Adam Ruskowski, and Laska!' liam Agar, authority on natural re- Schwartz. sources and lecturer in geology at The appointments were selected Columbia, on Resources in De- by a committee composed of Dean fense; Dr. Douglas w. Campbell, Garis, Professor George Dwight professor of government at Union, Kellogg and Professor vv. W. Ben- on Defense Emergency and Na- nett. tiona! Progress; Dr. Arthur Sweet- Lewis was recently elected a ser, former member of the sec- member of Phi Beta Kappa, na- retariet of the League of Nations tiona! honorary scholastic society. and member of the Institute for Breusch attended the Juilliard Advanced Studies, Princeton, on School of Music before coming to u. s. and Future World Order. Union. Student chairmen for these dis- Ruslwwski won the Allison De- ~ussions will be Janet Murtaugh bate Prize in 1940 and was mana- of Russell Sage, Dick Brown of ager of varsity debate at Union. C.C.N.Y.. Leonard Kohlhofer of Schwartz is business manager ot R.P.I., Rina Grossman of Russell \The Concordiensis\ and is intercol- Sage, Harvey Fishbone of Union, legiate co-chairman of the Student Muriel Williams of Skidmore and Committee for Democracy confer- Richard White of Hamilton. ence here starting toda-y. At 5:30 p. m., Saturday, advisory --··-- -o---- experts and student leaders will Chess Club Plays Host To Princeton Tomorrow The Chess Club will play host to the Princeton University Chess- men on .Saturday evening when they will meet for the first time in an inter·collegiate match, it was an- nounced ye;terday by Maurice Deul, '42, president of the club. Representing Union will be Deul, Wilbur Lakin, '43; Marvin D. Smith, '43; Charles Snell, '43; and Frederick M. Siegel, '43. The match will be played at 7 p.m. in Silliman Hall. The Princeton team will ar- rive early Saturday and will be guests of the Union club during -their two day visit to the campus. gather around the round table in the Old Chapel for a general discus- sion of Colleges and Democracy, to be broadcast over Station WGY. Dr. Campbell will ·be chairman. Previous to the broadcast a re- ception and tea will be held in Hale House with the presidents of the four colleges sponsoring the conference as guests of honor. Raymond Daniell, chief London correspondent for the New York Times will be the speaket· at din- ner to be held in Hale House at 6 p.m. He will be introduced by Dr. V·ernon O'Rourke. Sunday's activities will open with a plenary session with the Com- mittee to Defend America by Aid- <Continued on Page 2)

Page Two THE NEWS-CONCORDIENSIS APRIL 25, 1941 SCD Conference Opens Tonight at 6:30 '42 , Hobert Hayner, '43, and Paul r-----------......__.._, Art Materials The News-Concordiensis A combination of (Continued from Page l) Becker, '41. Student delegates to the affai-r will be housed with members of the faculty and Union alum11i in Schenectady. for Spring Water Colors! HENRY C. FOOTE Your VALSPAR Dea.Jer 45 Caroline St. Spring Wind-up wifh SPAGHETTI FUSCO'S Bl\Plmtan .St. THE SKIDMORE NEWS THE CONCORDIENSIS ing the Allies lCollege Division) in the Old Chapel. At 10:30 d·ele- gates who have attended the Wil- liams :;pring conference on \Amer- ica in a World at War\ will report in a joint ses:>ion of the two con• ferences. Mrs. Roosevelt telegraphed: \I am very glad to send .greeU11gs to those attendin~ the College in De- ·.:=======================~ '::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::, fen:;e of Democracy Conference. I r EntC'rf'li at t h\ SchenC'ctady and Saratoga Springs, N. Y. Post Offic<•s a\' Second Class Mail Matter. :Skidmore Board Muriel WH!iams, Marie Louise Steiner, Corrine Kramn, Elranor L<'<' and Anne 'J)Ililh·. - - - -- linion Board A1·mund Ff'igen•baum, Solomon Blechman, Sa.muel Portnoy. Jael' Pl•arson, Laslmr Schwartz. Granger Tripp, Hobert Ha.yner. 'T<ml O'Connor, Harvey l<'ishbone and Jad{ Schultz. Friday, April 25, 1941 Following Chapel Services and dinner in Hale House the dele- gates will take part in the Empire State Town Meeting at 3:15. Clar- ence Streit, head QJf the Union Now movement; Dr. Frederic L. Schuman, profe~sor of political sci- er:tce at William~. and Dr. de Lozada, will speak on the topic \Union Now vs. Pan Americanism.\ hope this occasion will help you to prepat'e yourselves to defend our democFacy an.d will make it easier for you to solve the pro·bJems which you wHI have to face in the com- i.ng years. 'Eleanor Roosevelt.\ ----o--- -- Shirley Root Engaged Pep up With a COKE! MAC FINN'S Give your Hair a Spring Treat at Pollyanna Beauty Shop ~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~--------~~ ~~ :Spring Comt ,Protect That Sheen! SIMONIZ BIGSBEE'S Tow tlaat STOP Line Wit.h Brakes That Hold CAL'S GARAGE JOINT ISSUE This week-end, p1·esenting as it does the highest degree of coopemtion yet effected l>etween the student bodies of Skidmo1·e Collev:e and Cnion College fumished the staff's of the new::;papel'S of the two institutions with the opportunity fo1· pul>li·s!JiHg the joint issue they had desired these many ,·ears. The weekend wHI not be entire1y one of work for the representatives who have been invited to attend the Union-S'kidmore Concert a:nd dance on Saturday evening as well as the athletic events ::>cheduled for· the weekend. Shirley Root, '43, can claim the distinction of being the fir::>t one of her class to be married this year. She is marrying E. LeRoy Reid, who will receive his Secor:td Lieu- tenant's commission next month at Maxwell Field. He is in the U. S. , Air Corps. Shirley is a resident of ~:::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~, '-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~, Peabody Hall and is a Psychology ~- major. Roy attended the Univer- sity of Connecticut. . The issue \Vas managed as a full collaboration between the staffs of \The Concordiensi:s\ and \The Skidmore News,\ in respect to presentation. of the news of each campus in con- junction with the advance 1·eports of the week-end in which both were participating-. Sponsored by Union, Skidmo1·e, Ru,;seH Sage and R P.I., the con- ference is headed by IntercoHegiate Chairmen Laskar· Schwartz, '41, and Armand Feigen'baum, '42. Ar- rangement\ for the program on the Union campus were made by Alex- ander Arony, '42, William Birdsall, The engagement was announced last week, and they will have a June wedding. NOTE: All ads on this page, with the exception of the Western Electric ad, are Skidmore ads. For the sal\'e of the record and posterity, \The Concordien- sis\ wishes to state that tlw venture was inspiring-. PICTURE OF A SMALL COLLEGE It i::; with pleasure that we welcome to the Union campus the visitors who will be our g-uests during this eventful week- end. \\'e hope that the sub-freshmen, fathers of Union stu- dents, delev:ates to the Student Committee for Democracy conference, and guests at the joint Glee Club concert-dance will find their stay a w01thwhile and enjoyable one. We can assure them that the college communit~· will make every effort to make their visit a success. This week-end, as a form of \Open House\ Ol' htboratory experiment in presenting Cnion as a small college of Amer- ica, is peculia!'iy appropriate for the purpose of furnishing our guests a picture of the campus. During· the next two days, the four p1·essm·es on college campuses today-those of seholarsh ip, activity leadership, social life, and the world ::-;ituation-will be brought forth in theit· campus context. Prize Day tomorrow \\'ill present recognition of outstand- ing achievement in scholarship and activity leadership, in ceremonial typical to the small, old, American college. f;ocial life of the campus will be particulal'iy well exemplified in the Glee Club concert-dance which will l>e, in effect, open to the entire student body, with dress optional. The Student Com- mittee for Democracy conference represents the desire for and the manne1· whereby student members of college com- munities meet to discuss fully the means fo1· meeting the p1·oblems which concern their nation and their future. Our guests will be able to see a campus picture typical of the American small colleg-e scene today. They will see the student body of a college carry on its own form of life, tem- pered by its own form of pleasure, without, as is so often chRrged, ignoring· the ver~· serious problems of state and na- tion which face us today. WHAT IS THE WAY OUT? Right now America is concerned with the way out. Wf are not alone in wanting a workable solution for the present world crisis. We know that war cannot continue indefinitely and yet, at this stage, nowhere does any one government seem to be accomplishing a constructive solution. All of this has made us think about and weigh the possible answers we have found. And as we find ourselves face to face with the views of Robert :\Iaynard Hutchins and those of Clarence Streit, we pause to consider the merits and workability of each plan. Both men seek the same end, for the preservation of democracy is their ultimate hope. l\Ir. Hutchins claims that our future is at home. We are seriously concerned with all of Europe, yes, but are we not losing sig·ht of what democracy means fot· us and of how we can save it? :\Iost of us agree that we'll do anything short of' war in the fight against totalitarianism. We are too en- grossed in European war happenings, implies Mr. Hutchins, and are prone to push our own problems into the background with too little thought. Our solution is here in America in combating poverty, ignorance, injustice, disease. And in 'the end we shall really know democracy in our hearts and in our living. Clarence Streit is at the opposite end of the pole when he p1·oposes his Union of democracies as a possible way out. The thirteen American colonies began the United States and it seems reasonable to promote the Union of today's democratic states upon a similar plan. \Union Now\ was written before the present war, but the same principles still apply. These are history rnaking times which are forcing us to I take the long view of today's happenings. Robert Maynard Hu·tchins and Clarence Streit both offer possible solutions as l to how to preserve world democracy. B. ALTMAN & CO. FIFTH A VENUE NEW YORK a sftol? Maybe some new clothes will help. Come to the Altman exhibit for summer things for sports, for dates, for town, for campus ... see you at Salisbury Chambers Thursday and Friday April 24tla and 25th what you'll be when you have beautified your fingernails with D~Bl\·GLOSS 10 t l\1ail Polish Everywbere Send far complete booklet on nails: What to do about splitting nails; How to give yourself a Professional Manicure. Ask for -\Your Fingernails and their Care.\ Write-Manicure Dept. 1 Lorr Laboratories, Paterson, New jersey, PROM SNAPS- Developed For Building Supplies at Milliman & Hall H. B. SETTLE'S DIVISION and WALWO-RTH .----------------------i : YHINK of 'f 0 U R I I I : CAR l t I J Others Do! l t I I I ! Benny's Super i ! Service Station i I I l Telephone Saratot;~a 1614 : i-----------------------1 .----------------------~, l Pastel Tweeds \ I I l and l I I I h I : Mate ing Sweaters l I 1 I I I I 1 TOP HAT : ~ I I PHILAilELPHIA ST. ; I I L----------------------~ Spring-clean your SPRING GOAT HAME'S CLEANERS Lincoln Street In the front line of National Defense Tel. 112-t, re aring to take your Many of you are p P . No matter . 1 t' on's serv1ce. places lU t 1 e na 1 b u'll find the h that place may e, yo w ere . ri ht there with you. telephone mdus~ry . g • the life-line of F ommuntcatlOU IS • or c d £ defense preparattons. armed defense an o k' equip· A t Western Electric we're ma tlnlg ld h . h norma y won f se now w IC ment or u. d b the l3ell System for sev· not. be reqmre y l . orders to equip 1 We're rus nng era years. t rovide increased new military posts- o p d'ng defense telephone facilities for expan 1 industri~s. . £ d as in calmer days, In thts ttme o nee ' ert' ence and 1 · ' long exp Western E .ectrfic.;.t'es are demonstrating :manufacturrng act 1 l. their worth to the natiOn. w l 1 ~

-1 I I I I I I I I • I ' : : w The News- Concord i ens is Pictures Raise Curtain on Tomorrow Night's Skidmore-Union Festivities DIRECTOR AND MANAGER DR. ELMER TIDMARSH STUDENT LEADERS KENNETH MACKENZIE, '41 PAUL BEST, '41 First Party Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, pictured above, as she made the first introduction at one of the Skidmore-Union Freshman Party, in the fall of 1938. These parties have since become annual and highly popular events. Held both at Skidmoi'I' and Union, they have been the cause of many a four-year (or more) romanre. 'There'll Be a Hot Time-' Just a sample of the good time to be had at all Union dances, whether the joint Skid- more-Union Glee Club Dance or the Junior Prom. Maim sure you are in this preview picture of tomorrow night's affair. Make THE BARBIZON your Summer Headauarters NetvYork's Most Exclusit·e Hotel Residence For Young Women For the young :>tvoman who , ... ·ants to launch on a career the day s<-hool closes •.. for the undergraduate planning to take summer courses ••• or the vacationist who appre· ciates the added features ·Of a New York holiday, The Barbizon, with its air ofluxury living, its versatile program of cultural pursuits and physical activities provides the per- fect background • • • a complete library •.• art and music studios (equipped with Steinway Grands) •• , swimming pool, sun deck and solaria, squash courts ••• gymna- sium ... 'iOO rooms each with a radio. TAR I FF• From $2.50 per day • From $12.00 per week \\rite for descriptive booklet C Lexington Avenue at 63rd Street New York City Concert- Dance Picture SKIDM'ORE COLLEGE CHORUS UNION COLLEGE GLEE CLUB Whether it's a Blind date or a fiancee Concert Student Fathers' or dance conference or open Week end or pnze Be Sure to Visit The VAN CURLER TAP ROO·M Page ,, I ' house day I I i I

Page Four THE NEWS-CONCORDiENSIS APRIL 25, 1941 The News-Concordiensis Columnists Write .. S k ; d m 0 r 0 n; a I Canada last spring vacation for a I Q c E N E he had told the story. He had tried \ \ ; wee bit of the snow covered hills. I ~ · to get Frank up that morning and WP are quite confused. Needless. 1 The first night they spent in Mont- B couldn't. So he attempted to shock to say. almost anyone except Super-' real and were deH'rrnined to see ow . . him awake. McKeaver had slept on Cupid Hits Brtllseye In Skidmore Olfices It is quite possible that whiTe practicing on the targets out- side of the Administration build- ing, one or two of cupid's arrows went astray and landed inside. Announcement has .been made of the engagements of Miss Finch, in the President's office, to Mar- vin Lat·sen, manager of New- man's Lakehouse, and of Miss Broughton in the Personnel of- fice, to Lieutenant Ican L. Smith, who is at present in the Marine Tt•a,jning Corps. Miss Broughton will leave Skidmore after her marriage on June fifth. Skidmore Elects Judi,cial Board And Legislators man would be quite confused what the town despite their lack of Followmg. the example '?f half a the story and thought it true. The with running back and forth from French beyond \oui\ which is very dozen synd~cated columm~ts who moral-we'll do we have to point Skiddie to Onion trying to find del- LITTLE help when one is in an ~ake .. a pomt of wel?ommg new it? · t b'ts f d' ·t t 11 A d b . awkward situation. It was getting 1 eadet ~. Scene makes 1ts bow of a ·R &·L k 1ca e 1 • o 11 • to e . n emg . . .. ,. . mixed audience. Welcome \Susie · U ~.~ernec s ouddenl,. flung mto the rnidst of on the late slde when a cop !OJ ' Tb U . d't' f N y k • J · h t . , 11 h · c Skidmore!\ e mon e 1 wns o ew ·or both divisions of humanity instead w a evei ~ou ca t em lll aP- bb 1 · d th 1· of just telling our usual \cat\ tales. I adal ~tarted a convenation witn And the Rumor Says bt~ ernec cs Mappdea·re D .onF eM'llt- . . \Y · 1· f· th ·t t··~\ Aft . . . . Iary ~cene on ay. 1. ox, 1 we could. If 1t were allowed turn~ ou gtr ~ I urn · e ~ a es · e-1 I Go,;stp, a highly penshable com- E . h If d N y A t ' a no ·t'ti·v·e a·nswei' he c nt1'nued d\t t f · · nzet. a a ozen · · · s u- •his \delicate\ dirt col.umn into a \' ~ • 0 • 1 mo 1 y, oo o ten IS mnety per de t. th )'b. , •taff d th \You ltnow girls don't •enerally . · · d n ~. e 1 tary • an o er good old slam sheet. · g cent Imagme and. ten per cent interested parties gathered Mon- HowE>ver still i·n oUI' delicate walk th~ streets of Montreal after truth. Not toQ Infrequently it's one day afternoon to watch Professor stage. we' will tell of a certain a certam hour unless they are hundred per cent imagined. Talte Webb and an N.Y A student lower . . . escorted. In fact, there ai•e only this story .' · · Slttdd!P who was offered a blmd two t . e< who do One i the 'lad . . · . . . the L'Ameroux picture wh1ch was from Onion the other night. She ~ P - . . · 6 } Sundaj. Hale Hou~e dmers heard to be replaced by the Spencer pic- .. d b' t h th . . t of the evenmg. the other, the one Franklin McKeaver tell of a Phi t . v; as u wus as 0 w e ei 01 no from the state• And\ he went on I D lt \\h h. · h Ul e. to acc•E>pt it becau~e she had been • \ ' '1 e a \' eta w 0 • comtng · orne Halfway down the picture caught getting a ~hone call f~n· the last ·\the only wa): people .round herP I Satm·day evening with a little too 1 on the mouldin\'. Tongues wagged hour and had not been in to re-i can te.ll the dtfference 1> to go up much under his belt, attempted to I as the rubber~ecks advised but cPive it. However decidincr that the I ~nd gtve them a gentle slap, and !'Ober himse.lf on the balcony and I still the picture stuclc Then Dr phone call might have giv;n up she' If they turn round and c~lmly sock :ost his balance. Frank reported Fox called Sidney Smith who effi~ • ' 1 you back, they are definnely from 1 he was a gorv mess · ' accepted the blmd and went to put 1 the statPs ,.. 1 J • . .• c1ently noted the trouble and di- an the extra coat of paint. Just at . .· . ; How bad ~e he~rd? H~s room 1:ected Mrs. Sunderlin to get the that moment. she got the phone:. Contmumg from the st1 eet-walk- i ~ate works m Elhs Hosp1tal and window pole f.rom the ladies' room call. It was her brother at Onion ' mg m :\!ontreal stage. the le::·s for- 1 IS usually a d~j· or t\~O ahead of Freed, the picture continued on who had come up for a blind and tun.ates who have to. remam here 1 t~e .campus wtth :;tones of has- iU, way to the floor amidst the just wanted to say hello. So they whil~ others are enJoy:ng a few p1ta1Ized stud.ents. cheet'S of the rubbernecks. ;aid a family hello and goodby, and si;'rams, breaks and brmses on the Students tne? to check up. The she went down to meet her date lulls of Canada, were warned, as story was demed by Paul Howe. Woodpecker shaking only as one can when con~ always. not to w':-ll' in Congress Jim Gifford was questioned. Yes, Jack:wn's Gardens reports say fronted with a blind. She made het Park after dark Without an .-scort. there is a red headed woodpecker grand entrance from the elevator That has· always seemed a little before meals) to date. except for down there who spends hours every and went in to find that her blind· pat adoxical to us. Agreed? one breach. This occuned with the day pecking on one of the metal date was none other than her i Speaking of rulings. there is one I coming of a certain group of c.ased light:: in the t1.ees. The bird BROTHER. little jobb) about no liquor on. Onionites who invaded our Little ltkes the hollow sound he makes We will get 011 the not-too-nice· ca~pus. We find that the record is -:r:heater a few weeks back. Certain ·when he attempts to_ ~rive a hole £ide to tell you a story of two: qmte clPar • except for an occa- eight-hour-a-day Omni-bus members through the case. V1s1tors to the Slliddie senior~ who ventured into I siena! bottle of tonic to be taken found mot'e than several second- ga7den ~ave been s~artled 'bY ~he .:---=::::::::::::::..:_:;:_ ___ __;:....:.;,I~ hand beer cans back of the \eye no1se whtch sounds ltke a machme ,.. and we also noted that our opener gun rattling aloni;'; at full speed. A Refreshing \COOLADE\ at the FARM A. J. M 0 R E GROCERIES For Every Purpose 43 Phila which we use for cokes had dis~ appeared. Mountebanks!!!! Birddog Broadcasfs Tuesday's Concordiensis story on the two Sigma Phis and Mr. B. Dog's Gordy Randall broadcast was partly incorrect due to being writ- ten on a galloping typewriter that threatened to outrun the t·adio pro- Phyllis Talks on Bentley England Noted British Author Tells Skidmore of War Morale, Daily Life \In England Now\ was the sub- ject of the talk given by Miss Phyllis Bently, English author and lecturer, at assembly April 16. The author of \The Power and the Glory\ told what life in England is like now; not the picture the axis powers wish one to believe, but actual conditions. Daytime activities go on pretty much as they used to, said Miss Bently. Of course they are busier making munitions, but the schools and colleges, tea parties, and stores still go on. \In daylight the sky over England is ours,\ said Miss Bently, because of the ·balloon bar- rage protection. At night, the prob- lem is very different, because the dark means danger. Explaining the methods by which the English peo- ple carry on during blackouts, Miss Every time there is a social Onion-Skiddie function coming up, we hear all about it in mass meet- ing and always ALL are invited. We have often wondered what would happen if ALL accepted! gram. Bently ~:aid that these blackouts v:an Aernam took the name of I are the country's greatest .precau- .----------------------1 I I I Plan Your I I I I I • TEA PARTIES I. I I ' ' PREVENT SUNBURN! Lotions and Cream at HELPRIN'S I at the l ~- =~~~-:::;·~;:::-~~~~ I I ,... I I I I l Wishing Well l I I CONGRATULATIONS are received sooner by ! Lodge : I : WESTERN UNION l----------------------~ lastes good ••• costs \\tt\e and swe\\ tun to cbew- that's DOUBlEM\Ml GUM . delicious DOUBLEMINT Ye s che\Wlilg ll f a\: sports ' we un . • · GUM is always s , s while you're b tween c1asse , l . \ events, e EMlN'I'S rea -nnn . \ T I .... I I . I! A \Bachelor's Delight\ at WALTER'S Broadway NEW SPRING SHOE STYLES! Endicott Johnson Broadway TREAT your GUESTS to a STEAK NEW WORDEN Broadn·ay Ralfstanger, not Malkan. tion Mr. ?og ! known in the office . as I The activities of women in this Mr. W1llar?- Malk':ln) drew: a canme present war was deEcribed by Miss test questwn. ~1th a slight hint Bently when she explained the he correctly said that dogs could working of the A.R.P. <Air Raid Eee and hear bett.er than man. Then Precaution servicers). he . gral?pled wtt~ the moneyed \In England today,\ said Miss seatch light questton. Bently, personal ambitions are for- COSMETICS and DRUGS WELLS PHARMACY 398 Broadway Springs Accents Jewelry from EDELSTEIN Broadwa~· Tt>l. 340 gotten. Everyone works together, trying to look at the war with a sense of humor, and everyone is proving Churchill's statement, \our spirit through this long war is gt·im, but game.\ A preview of Commencement Jewelry DE FREHN Broadway Spring change for your CAR at HICKEY'S see How to hold your Portner /; A'::.:..:::·= J VAN YOAST • LEONARD A I 0 o'Clock Pick-Up ICE CREAM COOKIES COKES have to be even more partie- ~ ular than most girls about ,.. daintiness. No wonder dainty, effective Odorono Cream is /./ their big favorite! r . From The FARM o·MALLEY'S Seniors Councilors Armstrong, Covell.; Juniors, Kirk, Conway Elected to Judicial Board and Legislative Counci'l in recent class meetings, are the representatives of next year's sophomore, junior and senior classes at Sltidmore. Senior members of Legislative Council are Lucy Armstrong and Betsy Covell. Lucy lives in Pea- body, and is ·Chairman of the Skid- more branch of the Student Com- mittee for Democracy. Betsy is Secretary of College Government, and is a business major from Bridgeport, Connecticut. JWJior Class Representativet> The two members of next year's junior class elected to Legislative Council are Margaret Knapp and Helen Meagher. Margaret, class song leader for the past two years and member of judicial board now, is a Fine Arts major. The second junior member, Helen Meagher, is Secretary of Athletic Association and was president of her house freshman year. Betty Conway, present freshman class president, and Edith Kirk are the two sophomore representatives for next year. Edith is president of her house, and secretary of the freshman class. The function of Legislative Coun- cil is to discuss and decide upon matters of community policy. Class repre~:entatives were se- lected to act on Judicial Board, which considers and acts upon in- fractions of the college regulations. From next year's senior class Ma- rie Louise Cauchois is the class representative on Judicial Board. \Meppy\ intends to be a medical secretary, lives in North, and by her own description \has freckles, and is funny looking.\ Knotts on Judicial Board Janet Knotts, a redhead from Portland, Maine, will be junior class representative on Judicial Board. She is· president of the Well- ington this year, and was president of Spring Street freshman year. She is a Textiles and Costume ma- jor. Janice Brooks and Betty Brown are the sophomore representatives on this board. Janice, a reddish- blond, was prominent in Debate Club and on NEWS this year. She is an art major. Betty is also an a·rt major, and is working for Out- ing Club and Studio Arts. SUN-DECK HAIR? Consult Ross & McCormick LUMBER MILLWORK WELSH and GREY CO., Inc. Feather Curls by PANAREL~I Spring Fashion MAGAZINES Reiff's Newsroom Get Behind Those Headlines NEWS - MAGAZINES from FENNELL 1 S Broadway studying. pOUBL t taste and helps flavor refreshes you.~-h And. enjoying - .. ·1 Hold your partner with Odorono Cream! Checks perspiration 1 to 3 days- non-irritating, non-greasy, non-gritty. And it gives you 50 to 100% more for your COMMUNITY Theatre- CONGRESS ur breaL · · hi sweeten. yo . dailY helps bng en smooth cheWl~g Kind to your budg~t. our teeth, to . d So drop ln ~reat to en)oY everyka:!~ of poUBLE- and. buY several pac MINT GuM. __ to_d_a_Y_· ---:~~----:-~~~;'·-.· 0 ~ · _ _,...- money! s1'-E'-'\'--- ____ ... , 0 ~ ~\ 1l $10 Worth ~ THE ODORONO CO., INC. : J\ J\ 1 p, 0. Box B, New York, N.Y. 1 of Lessons in 1 Send me the new Arthur Murray Dance Book I A h oa D 1 and generous introductory jar of Odorono I rt ur murray ance Book and I Cream.Ienclose25¢tocoverprinting.mailing I Generous Jar ofOdoronoCream I and handlins. l If the instructions in this new Arthur I Nam I Murray Dance Book were given in 1 1 his private studio it would cost $10! : Address I See how easy it is to learn! And see 1 how easy it is to bold your partner : City tate 1 when you useODORONO CREAM! \---------------------------.J Fri.-Sat., Apr. 25-2~ Fredr·ic March Margaret Sullivan in I I 'SO ENDS OUR NIGHT\ Su~.-;I~ru Tues, Apr. 27-28-29- ! 8HARLIE CHAPLIN ! in liTHE GREAT DICTATOR'] Thurs-Fri., Apr. 24--25- John Wayne, Frances Dee \A MAN BETRAYED\ Also \CHAD HANNA\ Sat.w·day, Apr. 26- Chester Morris in \MEET BOSTON BLACKIE\ and \Along the Rio Grande\ Sun.-Mon., Apr. 27-28- Frank Morgan in \Washington ' Melodrama\ plus \Flying Wild\ c v B h th wl sti wl in at is ha to St H• th T' ca w U1 D bt be ca u th G: rc u w G 4~ 1£ g< s· v I\ tt a li

is ar's tive and lass is are the se- in- Ma- by kles, Nell- dent rna- tlves dish- She o an Out- nes THE NEWS-CONCORDIENSIS APRIL 25, 1941 Page Five Stickmen Face Supreme Test <Y---------------------~~----------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------- Tomorrow With Hobart Visiting Ten Beaten Twice In Four Years Deacons Boast Edge In 12-year Lacrosse Series With Union An undefeated record goes up on the block tomorrow afternoon when the var~ity team crosses sticks with the Hobart juggernaut which has lo~t only two matches in four years. The game will start at 2 o'clock on Library Field and is one for which the butchmen have been pointing ever since they took it on the chin, 19-6, from the Statesmen last year. Only three times since the Union- Hobart series began in 1929 have the Garnet lacrossers triumphed. Two of these three Union victorie;; came when Joe Paul and Fred Wyatt, present co-coaches of the Union squad, were stars for the Dutch ten. In 1929 Union won 9-3, but then Hobart won two matches before Fred Wyatt and his mates came along in 1932 to win, 4-2, for Union. Joe Paul and his mates of the great 1937 ten won the next Garnet victory by 8-5. Set>k Fourth Win When they take the field tomor- row, the Dutchmen will be seeking Union's fourth victory in 11 games with Hobart. During this time the Genevans have scored 99 goals to 48 for the Dutchmen. Not since 1937 has Union come within eight goals of even trying Hobart. \All I can say is that it's g<Jing to be a mighty hard game,\ com- mented Coach Wyatt yesterday aft- er putting his Garnet defensemen through their paces. \We're defi- nitely lhe underdogs and you wcn't have to worry about that thing called overconfidence Satur- day!\ He pointed out that since the Hobart ten lo>t its first game in two seasons last Saturday when it was routed by Navy, the States- men will probably be in a very ugly mood tomorrow. Previous to taking a terrific 24-4- lacing from Navy. Hobart had won from Lafayette and Tuft!:, both of which teams have since fallen victim to Union. Hobart beat Tufts. !l-1. while Union took the same team by 9-3 the next day. In its opener, Hobart walloped Lafayette, 13-2. The Leopards put up a ter- rific ·battle ·before bowing to Union by 7-5 last week. There will be tremendous pres- sure on Union's defense tomorrow. Whether thE' combination of Bob Nothaclier. Dick Balch. Bob New- ton and Ronnie Macomber will be able t:~ stave off the Hobart sal· lies will mean the ball game. On the face of it, Hobart looks a little too experienced. though Uni·on has the ootential physical ami numerical po.wer to administer a crushing defeat to the western- ers. Coache< ·wyatt and Paul have a squad of ever 30 at their dis- posal and if the'e lads all had a ye_a~s more seasoning. there F 0 R So'Jtball Flag Race Gaining Momentum As Teams Tighten Intramural soitball coni in- g<>nts settl<>d down oonsiderably this wE>ek to do som(' really tight and serious playinf{. i'lcor~> of ga;mes Tuesday, \\\·unesda,y, and Thursday follow: BE>ta ThPta Pi IO, Alpha ]}Pita Phi 0. Delta Chi 8, Chi Psi 3. 'Kappa Sigma 16, :-louth Col- [pgp 1. Delta Phi 5, Dell.t T:psiloa 2. Phi Sigma Kappa 7, l'si l'p- silon 5. Alpha Phi DP!t:t 8, ThPta Dt>lta Chi 7. 'Kappa Nu 9, Alpha DE>lta Phi 0. Phi Gamma Delta 5, Chi Psi 2. Phi Delta Theta 5, South Col- legE> 4. might not be much doubt about the outcome of any game. Probable starters for Union to- morrow are Co-C'aptains Dud Holmes and Jack Guibert, Paul Santee, Frank England, Ed Ward. Fred Wilmff, Bob Nothacker. Dick Balch, Bob Newton and either Ron- nie Macomber or Ronnie Ostran- der. Coach \Babe\ Kraus is expected to start the following lineup for Hobart: Cal Clemens, Captain Dick Lyttle, Bob Beinert, Bill Stiles, \Cotton\ Weber, Hank Welker. Pete Bender, Herb Fitch, Bo·b Yates and \Whizzer\ White. Nearly all of them are familiar faces to followers of Union sport. With the exception of two or three, all play- ed on either the basketball or foot- ball team against Union. Welker was captain of the Deacon court five. Most of these men played on last year's Hobart team which gained third place in national ranking. ----o--- Cub Lacrosse Team Sets Sail Tomorrow Union's promising. though inex- perienced freshman lacrosse team will make its debut tomorrow. pre· ceeding the varsity baggatE'way match on Library Field. The op- position will be Deerfield Academy. Starting fer the yearlings will l:>e Hcrstman or Gould, goalie; Rape- leje, Klarman, Ryan and one uf the Greys at defen:e; Schulze, center; and ·Clowe, Baskous, Will and Haigh on the attack. Bellevue 9uality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 Bl~EAD - ROLLS - PASTRY UP TO DATE STYLES $4.85 up Collegiate Fit PATTON & HALL 245 State St. Arrow Shirts .;::=:::::::E-:=-=-~~~ GUERRA PHARMACY 600 Union Street Cor. Barrett Simply Phone 6-9419 Call Ball and PHONE 6-3456 Ball Will Call .~b. 0 ··.·u .. e·iljj··d·· ... ·.<e .. r· .. s···.· ·· .. ·.·.~··. ' .. · .. ·.·.· .... ·· .. · ... · ·. ' •... \(.. ·. J . · .. :' . · .·· . · Gleaner { . .·· · . & Oyc.-s JAMES RESTAURANT 426 STATE STREET We Cater to Union Students and Their Guests Garnet Nine Drops Opener To Mass. State Ketz Looking For Very Cl·ose Meet With Vermonters Here Tomorrow Syracuse Netmen Tackle Dworemen Here Tomorrow Bill Ketz can account for 62G:•~--------- Leaving 15 men ~tranded on the po.ints that. his varsity track~en! threatening the college record, will base::; and committing five errors. 1 might ~oss1~ly accumulate agamst I put the ~hot after mis;:,ing the Mid- the varsit~· baseballer>' dropped the Umvers1ty. of Vermont when dlebury trip. Walt Breed has a their regular season opener Tue::;- 1 they open their home season on wrenched side, ·b11t may recover to day at Massachusetts State. The; the Alexander oval tomorrow. at win the javelin throw again. Statesmen came up with three run I? o'clock. Unfortun~tely, 62 pomts Though Gus Morrison, Pete Plum- rallies in the Fixth and seventh in-, 1s· two less than Unwn would. need mer, Lou D'.A:cundo, Johnny Lewis ning to overcome an early Gar- ! to win the meet, so someone 18 ~o- and the boys wm ge~ lots of com- net lead, and win, 7-4. The box . 1 ' ing to have to come through wtth petition In the broad jump, high Whipped In it:; first two matchee. the varsity tennis team will see what it can do a:gain:;t Syracuse University here tomorrow, start· ing at 2 o'clock. core: a Herculean performance. , jump and pole vault, the discus Performing for Union in the sin- gles will be Captain Doug Schat- tan, Ken Sharpe, Charley Keeler, Clancy Woodward, Em Hutchins, Phil Potter, Lee Sherman and Ted Vinick. Coach Marve Dwore will probably use the following double>' combinations, Sharpe-Vinick, Kcel- .er-Woodward, and Schattan-Leland Beik or Sherman-Hutchin~. )!u~s. Stull•- .Ul R 11 PO A E I Last week both Union and Ver-~ throwing contingent should come .\laluy, ~\ .... , ....... 1 o 1 1 1 mont bowed on the track. Union through with a clasEy perfor- M allan. Jh , • • • • • . . . . o 11 1 lost, 83-43, to Middlebury, while mance. Trigg~. 1·f . • • . • • • • • • 1 ° 1 the Catamounts were being thrash- Wally MacMillan is back after be- l'arzyt·h, 1 h ,. .... ,. ,. 1 ~. 0 I ed, 85'1.-49''\• by VVilliams. ing ineligible for the Middlebury H,·un. ,. · · · · · · · · · · · · · 11 11 Everything points to a very close test a.nd will give Union strength in Jo'r~i las, rf I I 1940 V t :llullane;·, ~ 1 ; ·::::::::: 1 1 1 meet tomorrow. n • ermon the 100 and 220. Captain Jim Both- Wies. If . . . . . . . . . . . . . \ 11 11 o' came through with a narrow, 65-61, well is about due for some points Both Syracuse and Unio11 havP been handicapped by lack of out- door practice. Little i:; known of the Orange netmen, but Union i.,; conceded an outside chance for victory, being quoted at oddci of 5-1 by the boys in the \know.\ x-Spat·l'\ ............. 11 11 11 o 11 u victory over the Ketzmen. who had in the hurdles, though Jim Purdy, Hoi\ er, If . , .. , ....... I 1 11 1 u bowed to the Cats on I): once pre- Charley Snell. \Doc\ Maines, Bob Bullod<. 1• . . . . . .. . . . . . I \ o 0 viously. sine~ 1928 .. Wtth several Reed. Bob Shepard, Doc\ Orton Bang~. P ............. \ o 0 n 1 ' 0 men, mcludmg ~·p.rmt star ~ob and Barney O'Neil will have a Totals .............. :Ji 11 1!7 11 ~uther on the !n]ured an_d :::1ck tough assignment on their hands rnion- AB R H PO A E hst, Coach Ketz 1s faced w1th the in the distance events. He ill~·. ~h ............ I I I 3 1 0 problem of juggling his lineup for ---0--·-- Quigley, Ill .. .. .. .. .. 1~ 0 tomorrow. He knows he'll run into Ha>\ 0 • If · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 0 :l 0 1 trouble in the 220-yard dash and CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION Hai•staJ.g<'r. d · · · · · · 11 11 t, 1 6 the high and low hurdles where a Unquestionably Favored! Haihlev, ss ,. ........ i Weintraub, rf . . . . . . . . u 11 11 o 0 fellow named Mott holds forth \\'~ soPki. , f . . . . . . . . . . u u u o admirably for the Vermonters. JonP>', c • . . . • • • . • . . . . • 11 I 4 ° It is the field event~ where Union Steingut, 3b •••••• ·• · U ~ 3 will probably pile up the points. ('arnwright, 3h · · · · · · · 0 \Bud\ Sawyer, who is already :\loran, p ..... , .•.... 1 11 3 Fie~tt·r, Jl • . • . II II II II II XX·I'hilli[ls ... ,. ., ,. .. 0 ll 0 0 0 Total~ .............. ~7 4 8 ~4 11 x-Batte\1 for ~lile:-: tn ljth. xx- Batted for Fit-\:-itt-r ill Btl!. ?>!;,~\~Hate ............ unn Hl3 301-7 L:nion ............ ,. .... }II] too 11111-1 'J\ o-ln.·~o;> IT:·t (luiglt•V. 1'hrt~e~lm .. c.;.p h:-t---H..a-thlev. Ba~es ou bi::~lb ()ff Bul- lrll'k li. :l'lorao ~. Stl'Ul'k out -Hy Bul· (od.;, .t, )lu-I:Lll. -t, lLlllh~\ 1. Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General lc:e Cream Corp. SILVER DINER Erie Boulevard Quality Food - Always Oper, One Step frorr· State Streei Be Sure and Listen To TAKE IT and YOURS Also MY SISTER AND I and I'M NOT COMPLAININ' by BENNY GOODMAN at CASSEDY'S 460 STATE ST. I\ 11 Ill II 111111111 II 111111 II II II 1111111111111 II II II 1111 II Ill II II II 11111111111111111111111 IIIII II I~ ~ Have you tasted . . ; ~ DOBLER ~ The Christian Association will hold its final meeting of the year in the Hale House Student Lounge at 7:30 p.m. Sunday. Officers for next year will be elected. GET YOUR HAIR CUT The Remodelled SANITARY BARBER SHOP Next to the Union Inn ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING - ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY CO. COR. STATE and CENTER STS. ·------------------------------------------------, I I ! YOU STILL HAVE TIME I l TO BE WELL GROOMED FOR THE SOPHOMORE HOP ! l GET A HAIRCUT AT THE I I I I I : ACME i I BARBER SHOP I : I • Where Service is a Pleasure • I I I 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 I ' . l------------------------------------------------1 ---------------------------------------------- --- I BEE: 0 :~dN. ALE I' ~ •••• lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ~ I We Feel Bad about Violets What's the difference between a violet and an Arrow Gordon? V IOLETS SHRINK • , • and Arrow Gordon -as handsome an oxford shirt as you'd care to set eyes on - won't even shrink a measly r%! That's because Gordon, like all Arrows, is San- forized-Shrunk. A swell shirt for work or play, Gordon comes in white or colors, plain or button- down collar. Come in and get some Gordons tnday. N1J7§!l~VM:? ~~~~\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ P OETS always call the violet the s!Jrinkiug violet. We feel bad about anything that shrinks- but chiefly shi1'ts. So we've spent our life making the shirt that doesn't sh1·ink, the ARROW shirt. It's Sanforized Shrunk, which means fabric shrinkage less than 1%. Its Mitoga figure fit is superb and its collar is the world's finest. College men everywhere prefer Arrows. Try an Arrow Gordon today. ARROfil/ SHIRTS COLLARS ••• TIES ••. HANDKERCHIEFS .•• UNDERWEAR

Page Six THE NEWS-CONCORDIENSIS APRIL 25, 1941 Union, Skidmore Journalists Jo.in In Novel Issue Graduate to Sing Conclave Planned Glee Club History Dating From 1890 ===:::::::=== Delineated On Eve of Joint Conce.rt > 4 \\'liP' -..... \ \\ Lead in Operetta T 0 Discuss Jobs Resplendently correct in white.~·r---------------­ Staffs of Two Schools Unite in Publishing 'News-Concordiensis' B~- ANN•E MILLS '43 and HARVI<W F.J!SHBONE '43 Perhaps an explanation is neces- sary in order that students of Skid- more and Union Colleges will be a'ble to understand why an Arrow shil t or a .,;un-dec k hail· and cos- metics advertisement appeals in an issue of each respective college's newspaper. This idea was con- ceived not long ago by the editors of the two papers, and the idea -be- came a rea-Jitv at the Northeastern Pt·ess ConfPn:nr<' held in Troy last week, which was attended by. both ;;taf.fs. · Frantic exchange t1 ips have ve• y satisfactorily complicated long-dis- tance ·publication this week. On Tuesday six members of the Con- cordy \brain-tl'ust\ made a trip to Saratoga to work out plans with Skidmore News. A miniature whirl- wind was created ·when the Garnet journalists attempted to find the sti ea,mlined offices of their north- ern colleagues. Six men climbing the tenement-like steps of the F. 0 B. l Faculty Of-fice Building) was enough to cause a :;ensation on the Skidmore ca-mpus, especiall>· w-hen the fellows didn't know the exact location of the office. Skidmore invaded Union on Thursday, when much of the actual work of the paper was done. The Cuncurdiensis ol'fice telephone was very busy, W•hat with the editol's ex- citedly phoning other staff ,mem- bers, and imploring them las if that were neces~ary l to \Come on up! \Ve've got git·ls here!\ In spite of all prognostications to the contrary, both papers are ha v- ing an is:me this week }lore im- portant is the fact .that the reason for this alliance was that this week- end Skidmore and Union are co- operating more than is the usual case. The weekend conference of the Student Committee for Democ- racy, coupled with the Union-Skid- more Glee Club Concert makes this issue a doubly-strengthening bond between the two neighboring col- leges. When the mem·bers of the Con- cordmore-Skidiensis l we're sorry that WP couldn't get it in the name plate on page one, and small won- den came together to beg, ,borrow, or obtain some news, the following Plegy appeared on the bulletin board: \The Concordy dreams for many a year, Will :bE> of the day that you came here. So seldom it is that we've anything new, That we're more than glad •- wel- come you. \0 shades of Deyo and PellPttiet·, If they could only see you here! The reason why we're sut·e to wan- chuz, Is that the boys are all sylph-con- scious.\ HUNGRY? TRY FRUIT from PALMETTO'S 30 Caroline St. :Miss Ruth Mary Steele, Class of 1939, ;;upervi:;or oi mu.:-ic in the Argyle Central School, will sing the leading t·omantic role of Gretchen in thl' ,-ixth annual nroduction u! the Glens Falls Opet·e-tta Club, Vic- t8r Herbert'~ \The Red Mill,\ which will be presented in the Jackson Heights School auditorium on April 25 and 26 at 8:15p.m. Miss Steele. who i~ a resident of Fort Edward, appeared la~t year with the Operetta Club when :;he sang the role of Annabelle in De- Koven's \Robin Hood.\ She is a ::nembet· of the choir of the Fir>t ?resbyterian Church of Glens Fall~. \-\'hile a studl'nt at Skidmore, where she majored i-n music, Mis> Steele ·\ang the t·ole of DafnE' in \Orpheu\ and Eurydice\ and she abo ,;ang a leading role in \The Mikado\ when it was produced: by the com-bined mus-ical club,; of :>kid-more and Cnion Collegt>s. This year'\ production boasts a chorus of sixty, a cast of fifteen. and an orchPstra of thirty, and it is under the co-direction of Paul S. Bergan, supervisor of mu.:-ic in the Glens Falls public schools, and Edgar S. Pitkin, a member of the faculty of the Junior High Sehoul. At its own worlishop, memberE of the club have designed, built and painted two complete sets of scen- ery fot· the production. --··--- -0--- President of Wheaton Will Preach Sunday The Rev. John Edgar Park, President of \-\'heaton College, Nor- ton, Mass-., will preach the sermon at the regular Union Sunday Serv- ices held in the Memorial Chapel at 11 a.m. In the afternoon Dr. Tidmarsh will play a program of familiar m~ic at hico regular 4 o'clock or- gan t·ecital. Week Day DINING and DANCING ROCCO'S Lake Avenue SECRETARIAL TRAINING Take the shortest and surest route to an intercstinl] career bv developing necessary business skills. Windle offers a concentrated course planned especially for college women • • Small classes. individual attention. Un- crowded classrooms in stimulating Rocke .. feller Center. Special features for superior training, A successful placement record • • Summer and Fall Terms Booklet on reQuest • Visitors welcome Louise F. Windle, Director Box N, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York Five Skidmore Grads View Opportunities In Varied Fields \Continued ftum ?age 1) Summit Herald where ~he now works. 1:- or the past ten years, Mrs. Her- man G. 1.\'laset·, class of 1926, has been direc-tor uf art and <:lesign at the Hatt·iet t ~1eJi;;a l\1ill~ Tt'aining :::lchool for Kindergarten 1'eachen ill New rom Uty. She began her career a\ cvpywriter and designer for lhe Century Advertising com- pany in New :.:ark. After a short ;lenud with the Bus~ell Aclve1 tis-ing .Agency, ~he became a sohcitor anu r;ersonne1 worker for the advertis- mg dt>partnwnt ot -t-hP New York 1'-imes. Wid•• Car<>Pr :\1r:;, Huwaru ;.,_ uush uf tlw :;ame da:;s began her carel't', which later led to an interest in per~onnel wot k, by doing stenographic wm·k with the Nattonal Ltty f:!ank oi New l: or!•. 1-'t·om there \he held various secretat·ial po.;;itions----with J. Walter Thompson's, Hales Bed- dmg Store;:;, Pictorial Review, again at J. \'Valter Thom7lson's m the ex- ecutive offices. She- did radio work with th~ Columbia Broadcastmg Company, publicity and promotton for thl' National A:'sociation ul Manufacturets, pt·omotional work for HarpPr's Bazaar and finally acted as Placement Director of The Scudder School in NPw York City until 1940. The group interested in publish- ing will be lt>ad by Mrs. Jesse A. McKaug-han. For a vear followmcr he1· g-1'8duation in l926, Mrs. .'\11;._ Kaughan was associated with Charles Scribner Sons. She· then became publicity dil·ector of the- Broderick Fire ·Safe Home As~o­ ciaticn. She has done copywritmg for the Macmillan Com,pany, adver- tking and publishing for The Cen- tury Com-pany, pu•blishing for The Shelton Loom>'. At the present time she is managing editor of The Amel'ican Girl. ties and tails, the Glee Club winds up another season with two local concerts this weeltend. The fi.rst, tonight at the Mohawk Golf ,Club, with an audience composed largely of Schenectady Alumni, and the ;econd Saturday evening in con- junction with the similarly resplen- dent Skidmore Chorus in Mem0rial Chapel. Thus, another year of ac- tivity will be added to the history of a campus organization, whose earliest beginnings stretch back to ;he \gay Nineties\ and earlier. B<>ginnings of Club The oldest piece of informaton regarding the history of the Cl·ub is to be found in an issue of \The Concordiensis\ in the year 1891, at which time the group underwent some sort of revision. At that time. 1ceording to the newspaper ac- ,'ount, a manager was elected, and ft om the group of twenty-one men desiring admission, it was hoped t·hat ti-fteen or sixteen competent voices might ·be secured. Cont1ast ·this meager number with the 200 w-ho sought admission this year, of whom 86 were finally chosen! For some time throughout the nineties, the club led a somewhat obscure ~xistence. This was not destined to .ast. however, for in 1900, an or-gan- ization known as the Union College Musical Association, composed of the Mandolin, Banjo, and Glee Clubs was founded. It was at this date that the Glee Club ·began its present practice of making appeal- ances in various parts of the state :l.·bly assisted at each concert by the vit·tuoso of the plucked string. Not supported <by any -tax system at the time, t-he Club and its man- agers must have had their shale of worries. Both within and outside the college, the Club enjoyed an evet-increasing popularity. In 1917, however. the Club, like many other campus activities, fell into the dis- card wit-h the turning of the cam- pus into a training camp. There it remained until 1924, w;hen Professor Henry A. Schauff' ler, then a new arrival in the Engi- neering Department, became music GAZETTE PRESS Printers • ~------~--~- ~~~~~~~ HEAR IT- BUY IT! ~- AMAPOLA and INTI'~RMEZZO by .I BENNY GOODMAN and Hio Band also I I FOVND A NEW BABY and BREAI\FAST FEUD I by ! BENNY GOODMAN and His SE'xtet SPECIAL CI,ASSICAI, ALBUMS $1.79 Each Including some of the fine old numbers. Cluett&Son 202 STATE ST. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUk MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction'' 0 598 B'Wf!Y - For Better Values There's something about Coca-Cola,- ice-cold,-that stops thirst in its tracks. Its delightful taste brings you the experience of complete thirst satisfaction. So when you pause throughout the da¥, make it the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola. Bottled under authority of The Coca--Cola Company by GLL\'S. F~LLS COCA-COLA BOTTLI:-.!G CO:\IPA~Y qg :\lam Street Phonr:> 2-4mS South Glens Falls director, and started the voices \on high\ again. They have never stop- ped since. Rather, t-hey have been lifted hig·her with each passing. year. I,n September, 1926 1 began what might be called the \modern era\ for the Glee Club, with the anival as direct0r of Dr. Elmer A. Tid- marsh, The coming of this new: leader signa1,Jed the beginning of more intensive .training .than the Club had ever known before. Bring- ing with him a super-lative musical' background and a seemingly unend- ing reserve of musical talent and. · knowledge, he began then what he still continues, ceaseless effort di-. rected toward the betterment of the, Club. That very year, the club entered a state-wide choral contest and re- turned with second prize. The .. years since then have seen some of the most important occasions in the club's history. That year it joined. with 1200 other voices to ,palticipate: in the giant celebration marking' · the anniversary of the Battle of Saratoga. Dr. 'Pidmarsh had sole · char.ge of the musical porti0n of the pageant and for the occasion wrote the music for the song that is well known today as \It's Union's Game.\ Since then it has ably fi-lled its capacity as a highly interesting stu- dent activity, a frequent emissary of the college among .preparatory schools, a fine training school for the musically inclined, and, inciden- tally, a fine perennial co-performer with groups like-the Skidmore Chotus. ----01---- NOTICE Dean Charles F. F. Garis today reminded students makinR out next year's programs that a history of art course will again be gi-ven uftet· a lapse of a year by Mr. George Burton Cummings. Hear PAULA KELLY with America's No. 1 Dance Band Leader GLENN MILLER in \Moonlight Seren~de\ • FOR SKIDMOR;E TUES., WED., THURS. at 10 P.M. C. B.S. Stations tOO% in positions ira ;s 3 weeks! \\'AT'S TI-lE AMAZING RECORD ~ ... d t of the lnten• of the 1941 ~ra ua ::.. for Colle~c slve Secretarial Cho .. ood 1940 reco_ rd W en Betters t e \ t) om . k I (Details upon reques . by 2 wee s. s t' ... SUCCESSFUL EXECU~iVE Is t~.~~~ fy that secretarial tr~~'i''{o% ~ainin~ best .\nitiat equipdmhen b st) \channel e ployment (an . t e e it ust oftrainln~\ tberea:~~~· ::::On ~ere be efficient prepara . results are proven. F e $160 ... DAlbLlY ~P~,t~l~:~tsl~f d!ired). ( paya e · 1 ck $16 Member· Books, supplies, 0 er h YWCA $1. ship in ·central Branc Placement service free. d 1\LSO SUMMER shorthand a~9 Ji> M 1 ~· June 23-1\U~· • typin~. bj o~n$~ 5 . 'both subjects $&5. Onedsuf . e~ompl~te new catalo~ CC , · Sen or 'I ble Four residences avat a . ' also gym. pool, cafeterta, roof garden, dances. UIHHH ~e<.-·r~·tarial Traiuiug 'neath your mr,rtarhnard gi\'eH vou what it takt:~ tn \\·in a11d }lc.,JI] a grand jflb ~ Cathlng de~<\ril>e::; Spc....o- elal C1..1Ur~e fur l'oll~-->gt> Women. - Hear PATSY GARRETT with fRED WARING and his Pennsylvanians in \Pleasure Time\ • FOR SKIDMORE MON., TUES., WED., THURS., FRI. at 7 P.M. N. B. C. Stations .. v F c c

0 .. Conference Full Prom Reports Details Page 4 Page 2 Z-51'1 :----~-- ~-~-_--c· PRICE FIVE CENTS Vol. LXIV., No. 50 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1941 Phones: 1 EdtloJ·ial 1-on:1 'tl'rv>>' 1-!111 Prom Committee No Threat to College Heating Seen lnnounces The.me In Current Soft Coal Mine Strike Heat required for the l'emainder !- For D t • of the academic year can be sup- tim of n fnow storm with maxi- : eco·-ra· - .• on· ·s -plied· from pt·esent campus fuel re- f ·o d mum tempemture o ·- cgrees oerves, Comptroller Anthony Head- Early this wee!' students swe.terea ley said. in ~xplaining that the_ cur- under a roa,;ting ;~; 111 v.·'·Jch t:rov~ •slue. Silver Symphony' Is Planned for Da·nce; Pick New Contractor \A symphony i·n blue and silver\ will be the theme of the Junior Prom to be he-ld in the Alumni Gym May ::>, Chau·man Keith Mc- Candless announced today. A full canopy ceiling of sky blue will completely cover the gym stretching from wall to wall dmp- ing down in back of the running track so that it will not interfere with Mr. Cease's sidewalk cafe. The side walls will be draped in t·o~ al biue sport satin with each entl'ance at·ched in silver. A silver .piece will be hung in each corner while the band stana and track will also be decor a ted in silver. Indirect lighting will be used en- tirely to illuminate the dancers. Two sets of lights will be used; one will play t-hrough the sky blue of the canopy and over the track and the other will play up and across the room. Specially de- signed, the two s.ets of lights will bring out the contrasting shades of blue and silver. \The committee has planned a much lighter prom than has been prevalent at Union during past years,\ Chairman Mc- Candless said. New Contractor Named Dora C. Sull!van, an artist well rent ,tnke In the soft coal m1nmg , the met·cm·y above the Sv 1 ,~a 1 l< ot1 mdustry would not affed the col- II the the: mometer. The college sup lege. , . plied heat :::n b~th daw. Last year. during a similar ~tnke, 1 • • • _ .' ·'. • . r Union canied on without having In sptte of tht> :~-eats war me ~u curtail heat 01 . hut water, w<•athe_r college reco1·ds ~how that though Colgate and a 11 umber of apnro:Jmate·ly the~-' a~e am.?unt of eastern co liege~ had to ration coal ''a' bought ao. VI as dmmg the ;hower:l and heat. ll93!HO season. Umon buys abo~t Although the past winter was- a I the e~m: _amount of coal year m mild one, the college burned al- 1 and ~eat :mt. most 5,000,COO pound::; uf coal in an ' Schenect'ldy's defense o1·der>' or cffot·t to kee;, bui'luings r.nd stu-ln,ther the rush work of the Amer- dents warm. ·stati,tics ~how that i;:a~ Locomotive Compan?· \h?wed 3,000,000 pounds of coal equals · 1tse1f on the camp= thts wmter three ton;: of fuel for every Union I as an extr·:.ot·dinary amount of student. Had Union students to foot 1 smolte and so:>t covered the cam- ~Lal bilb, they would have paid 1 pus, dirtying the \now window!' about $23 each fur three ton:l of 1 and clothing. Studer.ts comp!'lined soft coal. 1 that they \had. to cut. through, ~ Except for a VI' eel' of extt emely smoke fog us thtck as Ptttsburgh s ~old weather, this past winter had ~on the way to their eight o'clock .!es~ snow and fewer cold day~ than! classes. Later during th£> day the last. :t-tecords ohow that on Apt·il 1 pall would life and be blown from 15, l!l40, 8chenectady wa.:; the vi~- , the campus as the wind changed. I Langsam Delivers· Mountebanks Cut SCD Keynote Talk: 1941-~ 42 Schedule Will Offer Only Two Conference Attracts PI • N t S ays m ex eason; Delegates to Campus N C •tt F 22 . C II arne omm1 eemen rom o eges l'nown in Syracuse, has been After the completion of seven awarded the contract for the dec- different round-table discussions, orations. \The Sullivan decorators two discussion broadcasts, two ad- are well known as being among the -dt·esses and a series of joint ses- best in the business and have had a sions, students from 22 colleges long and impressive recot'd of brought to a close the week-end work. They have done all of the conference on \Colleges in De- decm·ations for Syracuse University fense of Democracy·' here Sunday for the past twelve years as well night. The conference devoted it- as doing nearly all of the more im- self to an attempt to make the p-ortant work in Syracuse. Roches-. participants ·better informed on de- ter and most of the upper New fending and extending democtacy. York state colleges. Miss SullivaP Included in the conference pro- was recommt:>nded to the Prom gram were a keynote addres:; by Committee by Terry Greebm, the Dr. Walter c. Langsam, professor weli !1:nown designer of stage sets oi' history, round-tables on Ameri- ar.d decorations in Syracuse,\ Me- can foreign. policy and national C.1ndless said. problems, an address by Raymond The Trahan Brothers Co., of Co- Dannie II, chief London eon espon- hoes formerly did the prom decora- dent for \The New York Times,' ti-ons. \They have held the manop- a round-table discussion ovet· oly on the decorating concession WGY on Saturday, and the Em- for the past decade or two,\ he pire State Town Meeting on Sun- Faid. day. The Committee to Defend The executive committee of the Mountebanks elected -three new members for 1941-42 at a meeting held last weekend and decided up- on a radical change in .pt·ogram by voting to produce two plays in- stead of the usual three. Mr. Gordon Rmt, commenting on the chan~e. ;aid it was made, tirst, in the interests of increased econ- omy. and, ,;econd, to reduce the pres~ure of work on the members of the mganization. This j'Jian will eliminate the early spring play and will leave plays only in the late fall and late spring. New member~ chosen to the exe- cutive ccmmittee at·e Ralph Dres- 'el, '44, Joseph Heaney, '42, and warace Morgan, '44, who will join Abraham Eakal, '42, Stanley Green, '43, Harold Hendrickson, '42, Don- ald Houghton. '43, and James r-oung, '12, on the governing body :f the oq;anization. Mme members may be added later upon demon- otration of oufficient interest and Industry. Mr. i\lilton Enzer and .111. Gordon flust will represent the faculty. Pos.sibilities that the porch of America by Aiding the Allies !Col- the Gym may be opened during If ge Divisicn) held a plenary ses- the prom are being discussed by sion Sunday morning, which was the commit'ee at present. The com- followed by a joint session of all mittee plans to open the three cen- delegates. ter doors in the gym so that To Show Flims 0 Treaty Discusst>d dancers may rest in the air. pen- The Mounteban;<s will continue in<>' the doors would also cool off Dr. Lanr.s:Hn, il' his keynote Fri- their policy of showing eight for- tl1 oe prom floor. day night, answered the question, 1 A . . 1 h \What Is •,1 1 e Wot·ld Fighting eign fi m> and mencan rev1va s \The whcle question is in t e ~ · Old Ch 1 M d \ M About?, •· w1'th a dJ'scussJ'on of event-s m ape en ' on ay eve- ha nds of the weather man, c- · Th f · d · ht st'nce the \\t·saJ-]les treaty. \Ee- nmgs. P j'lrogram 0 p.ay~ an r·an· dl·ess ssid. Rai·n. prom mg · v' '1 h t t b h d ~ · cause the British and the French 1 .ns .ave no ye ee: 1 e osen. an would force the committeE' to ke.ep t!-:e executive committee is open to the dool ·s shut. followed different foreign policies, t' d' t ''! R t JuggeF wns, accor tng o ., r. us . although with similar aims, after Hays given this year have been the first World War. the Germans \The Ro:1d to Rome\ and \The ----o---- Union on the Air were enabled to build -up their mil- Inspector ·General.\ \Three Men on itary strength -and make worthless a Horoce.'' the concluding produc- So those pianr.ing to be aw::y the terms of the Versailles treaty,\ Lewis, Ba,lch As Johnson Bailey~ Dag:gett Awa;rd:s Win Addresses Prize Day Aud:i:ence .. .•. . ' Professor of English Urges Fuller Mastery Of Various Techniques 1 \That most valuable of assets, 1 the technique of accomplishment\ ; was described as the mean,; by : \\hich a dream may be breught to ! fulfillment, in the annual Prize I Day address delivered by Professot· P.urges Johnson, Chairman of the Field of English, on Saturday. I Twenty-three pl'izes were awarded I u, students for outstanding achieve- 1 ment in the field of scholarship · and non-athletic extta-ct:,.ricular I activity. The Bailey Prize, which has an- 1t:ually bPen awarded ·by the fae- i ulty to a senior who \has ren- 1 dered the gr.eatest service to the i college in any field,\ wa,; thi:; :year awarded to John P. Lewis of ; Hudson Falls, N. Y., for \out: l ing excellence in schular:;hip.\ 1 Lewis received \A\ in every one of i his subjects throughout his four 1 ~ears of college, including the year - Dean <ihitries I<'. .~;·. · of the Bailey Cup, the Wa.t~ner PrizP, Richard L. and '\\'arren C. Kimmey, that award. Lewi~, ·~nner Philosophical Prize and the Balch, winner of the Daggett Prize, who received honorable mention for h£> was exchange schclar to St. Andrews Univer:;ity, Scotland, in , 1939-40. Lewis was also awarded · two other prizes, the Sternfield ' Philosophical prize. and the War- ner prize fat· being the senior who \has reached the highest standing in the performance of collegiate duties, while sustaining a high per- sonal character.\ He was appoint- ed last week to deliver the Valedic- tory address at the Class of 1941 Commencement in June. Harrison Tells of 23 Farce Production At Bertram Harrison, noted Broad- Prizes Annual Given Event way director now on the campus. to Listing Names Winners direct the Mountebanks' productwn of \Three Men on a Horse,\ had Of Extra-Curricular lots to sar about the direction of hi • d' comedy and farce, when interview- Non-At ehc Awar s ed by The Concordiensis. Such a play as the Mountebanks are at- t~mpting is \old stuff\ to him for he has been directing farces fur Gilbert Mille1 in buth Lor.dun and New York for years. Explaining his Mountebanks' work Mr. Harrison said: \Farces are quick moving in action and deliv- ery of lines 1 equire the utmost se- curity of line delivery Being built primarily for laughing purposes, they depend greatly on audience reaction. T..,vo or three perfor- mances of a farce before re~pon­ sive audiences do mme than an additional week of rehearsing. \For thi~ reason I always as!{ for a quick study and complete Ee- cu::ity cf delivery by the end of the second week of rehearsing. In ~act I like to be ready at that time to feel that the com.pany cou!d give a fair perfcrmance if it shculd be necessar:~-. The third week I then devote entirely to ap- proximating laugh lines and to re- he:u sing the entrances and exits that are ~o important to the aYer- age farce such as 'Three Men on a Horse.' Opening Night The complete list of 1941 prizes announced by Dean Chal'les F. F. Gal'is and awarded by President Dtxon Ryan Fox follows: The Allen Essay Prizes: awarded to Milton Hyman Sugarman of Schenectady, Robert Samuel Her- man of Newburgh, and Mortimer Robins of Newark, N. J. The Allison Prizes: -awarded to John Adam Ruskowski, '41, of Schenectady, Edgar Fisher, '42. of Schenectady, Roger Duryea Marshall, '41, of Roslyn Heights. The Archibald High Scholarship Prize: awarded to Laskar Schwartz of Crompond. The Bailey Prize: awarded this year for outstanding excellence in scholarship to John Prior Lewis of Hudson Falls. The Donald Goulter Prize in De- bating: awarded to John Adam Ruskowskl. '41, of Schenectady. The Daggett Prize: awarded to Richard Loring Balch of Altadena, Calif., honorable mention, Warren Clarence Kimmey of Albany. Balch Wins Daggett Prize The Daggett Prize, awarded by the president to a senior for ex- cellence in conduct and character, was awarded to Richard L. Balch of Altadena, California, and hon- orable mention given to Warren C. Kimmey of Albany. \There are· among you young men many, I hope, who will some day create some new thing that will add to the beauty or comfort or richness of living for all the rest of us,\ Dr. Johnson said in opening his address. But before this new thing can ·be created, there must be the dream of it, he con- tinued. After the dream comes the form. Dr. Johnson said. \Form is the re- sult of disciplines that you yourself must apply. Striving to give prac- tical form to your dreams is a never-ending discipline, because you are developing a technique of your own,\ he said. Discusses Techniques Stating that a discussion of tech- nique was the \real business\ of his talk, Dr. Johnson defined \technique\ as \a convenient and effective way of doing something.\ \1 sometimes think that almost the only things that we elders can ac- tually teach you youngsters are techniques,\ he said. \Each art and craft has its own technique, but there is one tech- nique which belongs to them all: the technique of accom·plis·hment may keep tn lion, will begin May 2. The movies from the campus Dr. Langsam said. The Elias Prissner Prize: award· ed to William Macnicol Daly, '42. of Schenectady. h 11 - the com have included \Anna Christie,\ \0 - · ht I · t t touch with t e co ege m - The Versailles treaty itself, Dr. n an openmg mg tru: rue t .h · f · ndo The Con- \The Thief of Bagded,\ \Carnival th t t t 't f 1 u h The Fuller Prize in Chemistry: -the trick of !mowing how to get things done,\ Dr. Johnson stated. pany of e1r ne . -. . Langsam said, was a~ one and the e ac ors no· o wa1 or a g s · t th rev1ew of in Flanders\ I in Frenchl, \The th t t · f b t t awarded to Gerhard Walter Loub- cordiensis prm s 1s P same time severe enough to Im- a we are uncer am o , u o f t his weekend· Wave\ lin Spanish), \Emil und die ke th ·ng Aft fit•st ner, '43, of Walton. radio programs or . plant a desire for revenge in the ep e pace gm - er a . M 3 1 45 P m Detelttive\ lin German), \Grand f I h f · 1 d Th G d · h · Saturday, ay --- : · ·· .... '\al·ts of the Germans and lenient per ormance ave a atr y goo e oo nc -J)uane Pnzes; Y 81 0 k l Mr Cod \~ Illu~ion\ Cin Frenc·hl, \The Love k 1 d f h t th · t t d d R F b M E.D.S.T .. WG 1 c • · . - enough to permit them to take now e ge o w a e rmpor an awar e to aym·ond ur er ale, man Hisploy will deliver his poettc steps towat·ds the accomplishment ?arade.\ and Documentary Films. :aughs are and how to humor the of Schenectady, and Roger Duryea \Letter to Walt Whitman,\ on the of this aim. ·-~--a- - -- comedy situattons-.\ lVI'arshall, of Roslyn Heights. \American Faith\ st>rie!'. Listing as causes for the present NEWS IN BRIEF Mr. Harrison pointed out the mP- The Heck-Steingut Prize: award- 5:30 to 5:45, WGY and all NBC- conflict this desire for revenge, chanics that his job requires out- ed to Raymond Furber Male of Blue network stations, t:\bloid ver: \the awkward tactics of the Wei- I side of the actual casting. The lay- Schenectady. sian of public ceremonr~s of Chr mar Republic, an unhappy policy Sharpe in Recita ing out of business-natural phy- The Ingham Prize: divided be- Psi CentenniaL WGY Wlll broad- of alternating intransigence and Hugh Sharpe, Jr, '38, pianist, as- .\ical reactions by the cast members tween Thomas Pritchard of Glov- cast program until 6 p.m.. concession on the part of the for- sisted Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh at and the handling of properties-is ersvllle and. Mortimer Robins of Sunday, May 4--11:15 w noon. mer aiiies, and the dis:ressing ef- the regular Sunday organ recital in particularly important with a play Newark, N. J . WGY broadcast of cha·pel servlc~s. fects of the world dep!·ession,\ Dr. Memorial Chapel on Suncay. in which the action takes place in The Krusei Prize: awarded to The speaker made clear his meaning of the \technique of ac- complishment\ by drawing a car- icature of a student not getting his work done. \The dream takes form through discipline of mind and hand and the acquirement of special tech- niques. and that most valuable of nssets, the technique of accomplish- ment,\ Dr. Johnson concluded. . - ---0--· -- Chess Club Plays Draw In Match With Princeton including College Choir, Dr. Trd- 'd th t was Shatpe presents regular programs 'one or two settings because the William Keeman Flynn of Schenec- mar . sh at -ol·gan, and sermon by Langsam sal a a group T y . T b ht t Power . in Germany from radio station W R m roy. ~ets may not contrast and the audi- tady. The Chess Club drew 1 -n 1 ·ts 3 .. 15 to 3 .. 4 5- --Empire State Tow_ n roug o · d D p •·whose impelling philosophy it was Sunday's program include works ence must be kE.'pt occupied, he The Robert G. O'Ne·ale Prize: match with the Princeton club Sat- Meeting: GoodrichM 1 u~~le R;~!~ to establish its hegemony far be- of Moussorgsky. Rachmaninoff, said. awarded to Laskar Schwartz of urday night in Silliman Hall. L. I Debate; Ramond a e, ' .'\' f' f E Rimsky-Korsalwff. Tchailwwsky. The preparatory work on the Crompond. Sherwood, Princeton, drew with Marshall, '41, Robert, W. !\rehck yond the ~on ~:les 0 1 •u~?pe. of the and Gershwin. part of the direct8r includes the The Pullman Classical Prize: M · s · h • , 41 and Edgar Fisher, 42. wrth Pro- Continumg. ts exp ana wn . · , arvm mrt , 43; Lloyd Schaeffer, , W C b 11 as nresent confhct, pr. Langsam satd I E T • h !aying out of the furniture and awarded to Charles John Bruesch, Princeton, drew with Charles Snell, fessor Douglas · amp. e 'r that the British and French \drift- A E Meeting onrg t the planning of the entrances and Jr., of Albany. 43; and D. C. Teaslee dre-w with chairman, discussing \the Imp JCa- t' The Union student branch of the exits. Th P II E · · P · tions for American D, emocracy. of ed apart diplomaticl~ll~ at ':'- t tm~ Ametican Institute of Electrical The cast of \Three Men on a uwar~ed utom:r:nr'~g{:~;·~~~e ~~~~: Wd 'if! bur dLakin, , 43 ' Fred Seigel, ' 43 ' Pl ,est'dent Roosevelt s Exe.cutrve when, from a rea JstJC po1n o J e eate Robert Blizzard of Prince- th Off ce of view they should have co-operated Engineers will hold a meeting to- Horse\ is working hard to give by, Jr., of West Hartford, Conn. ton, while Morris Duel, '42, lost to Order Establishing e · 1 . . . to 1 ·m' plement by ro 1 ·ce of arms the night at 8:00 p. m. in the library of 1 Union one of the funniest perfor- The Richmond Prize in Musical W M R Pr ice Administration and C1vrhan . . B 'ld' . . obinson. The final score system which they had set up by the .Electrical Engmeerm.g Ul mg. mances it has. had fr?m any co~- Appt·eciation: divided equally be- of the match was 21,1, to 21,1,. Supply.\ 4 t 6 force of arms.\ There developed a Offrcers for next year wrll be elect- edy, Mr. Harnson satd. Others· m 1 tween Kenneth Edgar Mackenzie, Before playing the Union team, Monday, May 5- 5 : 5 0 p.m., F d W F' h f th B th · t' h ' 1 b e national great game of diplomatic bluff until I ed. Mr. re . ISC , o · e · u- e orgamza ton ave ventured the I 42, of So. Ot·ange, N. J., and Ju- the Princeton club had defea.ted WGY, Glee C u op nsw'rth pro- at last one side called the other'slte.au of Traffic and. City Plannin.g, opinio.n. th. at \Three M. en on a I st:ph Earl L.edden, '43, of Albany. R.P.I., with whom a match has been · week celebration k ff t H II musrc of anthems and college [bluff and the consequence was I will spea on tra 1c con rol equrp- 1 orse wJ prove an rdeal Prom I The Frclmg H. Smith Prize in scheduled by Union for the near gram war. ment • Refreshments will be served. play. (Continued on Page 4) future. songs. !. I

Page T\\'u THE CO~CORDIENSlS, TVESDAY, APRIL 29, 19.:11 Presenting Dance High Point[- In Social Season FuL ~Dill 1s;; \I Cttzl.\d } 1 d.'q£ }Jcltuil' .lsscli · tilt: ltgLllt: ll:~t~~~- _ _ _ --------- __ 1\llt: Pi1lti,tll .... \\:-l'·l1''-l .•l :: . ._ .-:\'~..._nt ... •·t l :.,,•:. l_·,,,,,;:;.- -~--~~-J;\\.._J.-TI.t.:~­ da~ aJH1 Ft.ttay::, Lhlull~lll·U~ tile •. :~d.t:..:L' ;.t.l! Editot:iuf Ituulll\'~- ~>.111~~-~~· 1 L..l. l iJ.-;:~.- ~ \·1-t~t \ · .. 1::-p~t-;~-T~-\~~~. ~t'IIL'lhL'tall:, 1-ol:..::..; _ _ -~ Pu·l.Jlit~ut-iolimfh·t·-, Til ... · ~..-;~.-t~·~t~ 1'1.._·~~ .. :.:1 :-;,.--~k ::-:;~-.-St·::~o:lll't'l,td~. :\. Y .. 1\ ltl•llll. t_• 1-tl-11 ~~~rt..·-d·--._tt --tl;-;_:--~-~:fll·I,~·L·tad;.·-- p .. ~ ..... : ~ l!'l_l• t· _ ;,:-- _St._·l t--;1_•• L'la~~ .:\latl .M~a:i_t__r~ Sull::;L-riptloll pn•_\..' Ft\t.' ll-:1l!-1 .t tUiiY; .\t>...;uv .L _>t.·.tl. •~t·t.-\t.lltl ~~·-~~>btL~ 111 tHe l'uut..d· ;::)t..~\-:-. ~enior Board Armand \'. F< igt•nuaum. . . . . . . . .... Editm-in-Cllid j\ 'I'· .l '\. i·l ;1-· Lasl;.ar Schw.urt L . .. t ... l'l .. ·,. d il·• Solonwn B:t•l'hlll:tll. . :\lanaging Editor Samm•l l'urtnJ) . Joimthan J. Donald Hai~;h. !''II [, ,· .. ,! •..• I ~ \\l l'bl l'l..tt• ]1 ;•, 1 '1'1,, !.1 !·l• 1: ,Junior Board Editor Editor .. Cit culation ~lanager I: !I Robert Hayner Thomas O'Connor Harvey Fishbone Jack Schulz GumgPr Tripp :'\orman Fox. Staff Photographer SophonllH't' Board Thoma~ C'ulkn. \\.illiam Hat t, AlbE:'rt Kronick. Edward Johnson, Arthur Pu,;t:OI<', Seyn10ur Thic kman Justin Peli~tein :\!Pi viii<' h·suP Editnr .. Assistant ... J \\''Ph Jaycox Stamey Greenstein ~Ie,.,.•ngel David B.osenblum REPRE.Sf.NTED FOR NATIONAL. ADVE:.R1151NG El\' National Advertising Service, Inc. College Publishers Representative 420 MAOISON AVE NEW YORK. N. Y, CHICAGO • BOSTON • lO'S ANGELES ' SAN FRANCISCO Ttlt'> L!ay. Apl il ~\l. lC.U . Granger Tripp AlhPrt Krnnirlt ~--:-_::......=-=--~- ... ====== WISE PROM STEP In Yiew of \\·hat we lwYe leanwcl from Chairman ~lcCand­ less, \Ve feel that the Junior Pt·om commit tee made a \\·ise decision to allocate the decorations contract for the :\lay 9 ctam·e to a compan~· other than that which had handled Prom decorations for so long- a tinw tlwt it had come tn belie,·e that Hundn•lls of Couples f.xpecit•(l to Enjoy •JJ e('keml of Jf'eela•nds' By KEITH McCANDLESS Let all souls that live within the vicinity of Union CollegE' close their. eyes and thek ears to the un·prece- dentetl reveilles that will shake Union's cam.pus from PaynE:' Gate tu thP Del:a Phi House. It will be tllt' wee!{t•nu of the annual Junior Plum, the annual party of parties, the grand c.imax of the social sea- don wherl'in books and studies are <·ast asic:P and fpstivity holds iron \way ovH collegiate life from Fri· day morn till Sunday eve. :\1a.y 9 .mt! 10 marks this \·par's social rul· mirntion. ar.d th-P Ba~chanalian bards foretell a weekend which will be .p!aced foremost in the annals of Union Proms. There will be no limits; there ·will be no ·bounds. The bars a1·e down. The Union male re- ,.;plendent in tail and tux and the Union date bedecked in silk and ,.;atin will rule supreme while stay- at-homes will pull up the covers and hide their heads beneath pil- lows. Not in many a moon will such a party have been seen upon this staid and dignified campus. rhe Ghosts of Richmond and Nott will scurry for shelter before the mad 1941 promguers who will turn campus and fraternity house into a hilarious Mardi Gras. Pedagogues Participate Out of musty books will come be- spe~tacled noses; out of labs and cla$SI ooms will come forgotten men; out of the sanctums of the faculty peerage will come those whose steps are not to be heard upon the paths of such festivities. Oncoming exams, army camp, even Acolf Hitler hirr.self will lind no p:ace al the Union Junior Prom. Let the world have its headaches for tha.t one weekend without us, we will have our headaches on Monday. it had a perpetual \in.\ The treatment accorded the Prom committee b~· the con- cern \rhich has just lo:-;t the contract was typical of that giwn \collegl' kids\ IJy firms which fl'l'l they have a mon- opoly of the business of any one college. Appointments with the committee \Yere broken. l'tllltacts \Yen: carelessly handled, and little cooperation was g·iven the Cnion group by the con- cem. The Syracusl' company which will do the wot·k. happy o\·et· the opportunity to demonstrate its l'apabilities in a new college. will fun1i,-h all that \rhich the other company would On Friday, w·hile the roat of the German mechanized forces shakes the European Continent, another roar of mechanized forces will shai{e Schenectadians into realiza- tion that every available gas pro- pelled vehicle in Union is bearing men and dates toward the Gymnas- ium. There are precisely 10 P. M., midst a panorama oi silver and bl.ue. Benny Goodman will lift his world famous clarinet on high and give thl' down beat for the begin- ning of five hours of unequaled listening and dancing pleasure. Hunc!reds of coup:es will sway and whirl in a melodic revery. Indirect lighting will give a. soft glo·w. The blues and silver will contr·ast softly beneath the lights. Tails and eve- ning dresses will d1·ift here and there. Around the bandstand will gat·her those who would rather ju.st stand and listen. Helen Fonest wi:l sing the beautiful Goodman ar- rangement of \The Man I Love,\ The Prom will be conver·ted into the Monte Carlo for the presenta- tion of favors. Long tables loaded with compacts. broaches, pins, and all that delights the feminine heart will be brought to the center of the floor under the lights. Dates will push and jostle to be the first to take their chances. Delicate fem- not. The step marks another i11 tlH' forward movement of large ,-cale L'nit'n social function,- that has taken place since the low ebb of such affairs at tlw end of the academic year 1938- Hl:\9. l·nde1· thl' able leadership of such men as George :\Iii- lei', Kenneth :\lackenzie, and Albert Callan, \big\ t·nion dances han:, dming th<.> pa,:.t tv:o ~·em·s. constantly improved in eampus pn•,-tig-e to the present when all indication points to a 1911 Junior Prom which will climax the trend in both qualit~· of ente1 tainment and in quantity of attendance. NO UNDERGRADUATE DRAFT \~hould t·olleg·l' .:->tmlents be permitted to finish their col- lege courses bEo'fore being- drafted into the army·:·· is a ques- tion now !Jping- consiclpn•d in Washington, along with similar l11l'<l\lll'es affecting la1·ge numbers of the thl'l'l' loWl'l' clas,-es inin£' hands with dark 1 ed finger nails wi:J spin the roulette wheels. Some lucky cate will be the winner of the grand prize, and will take home with her the beautiful silvef· cup to place upon the mant!P and ~how what she won at Union where they really put on a dance. Aft~r tht> Ball At three Bt>1irty will ring down the cu1tain upon his masterful five TIH' que,-tion, btu ied. in the public mind under a deluge of hour performance and couples will begin to wend their way from thP of Cnion. war Ill'\\.,_ of.: lllol'l' din•ct natUIP. is one of the most impor- tant problem:-; facing American collel-':es, alread~- hard pressed by the exigencies of the present emergency. It !'esol\·es itself into two competing claims: 1. That the rniterl ~tates needs men with college tra.ining as its futm·e leaders and that no temporary emei·g-em·;v should he allowed to interfere \\'ith this training. 2. That it is unfair fol' colleg·e men to be gTanted special priYileg-es of exemption \\\hen other young men are forced to nmke thL' sacrifice of ) .. dvi11g· up g-ood jobs to answer the call. ~ixty-ninP perct>nt of the American nation. if we are to believe the recent Gallup poll, favors deferment of college students. \\.ith this majority. we are inclined to agree. The emergency that faces America toda~· is one that de- mands re1tlistic facts for realistic answers to the problems p1·esentecl. In respect to thi:,; particular problem. the facts Gym. FratNnity houses deserted and lonely since ten wiil ring once more with the sound of girlish voices Evening slippers will come oH and couples will sprawl upon the floor. A Bcnny Goodman 1 ec- ord wi'il be heard playing. Someone will sigh and say. \Remember when he played that tonight?\ Dates will gather in litt:e groups and compare favors. A few tails will disappear for sport coats and slacks and con- tented groans .from the owners. A suggestion for something to eat will be made and parties will depalt for nearby diners Dawn will slowly light up the east. Laughter and voices will still be heard. Cars will trick:e in and out of driveways. A few ghastly looldng specimens will be seen in a \morning after the night before\ softball game. Long, hard-fought games of at least one inning will drive exhausted athletes are: to couches and beds leaving behind I. That leadership for the future must be trained now. a few unfortunates who, having •) T t • .· 1 . -J. , 1 !' . l , h' , . slid into base, were unable to get ~· ha expel!ence edttS U~ to Je Ie\ e t lett t IS leader ship up again. The pleasant oder of is most likely to come from college students, ns n group. 1 bacon frying and eggs cooking will · f 1 announce that the second install- It IS because o t lese facts that we are a g-roup strongly\ ment of the big weekend is at hand, convinced that colleg-e :;tudents should ue gw.nted deferment: and with dari{ened eyes nocturnal · 1 · f h · d I revelers wiil prepare for another until comp etwn o t eu· un Hg-mduate courses. 1 day. The 1941' Junior Promenade This Scene Will Be Repeated May 9 Wat£'h for this '><'t>ll!.', taken at a rpc.ent dance, to hP rcpcated at tlw Class of lfl:ll Junior Prom. Prom Singer Helen Forrest, sing~>r \•·ith Bf'nnv Goodman's or<'hf'stra, who ,\·ill appt>ar on .May 9. Prom Photo Contest Given Cameramen Goodman Rehearses Thc ranwra rat~llf'n Maestro Goodman during a re<'ent rc- hf'ar .. al. Cafe Is Planned For Promgoers Prorngoers whose throats become parched after £everal hours of ~huffling and those who become so worn out that their systems cry out for nourishment will find a sidewalk cafe upon the north bal- cony of the Gymnasium which is de~igned especially for them. They will find arranged about the track twenty-odd little tables and chairs Prize of Five Dollars where refreshments may be ob- f I tained. Mr. N. W. Cease, of Hale T 0 Be Given or Best Home fame, under whose jUI'iFdic- p . f W k d I tion this cafe is being run, has an- ICfure rom ee -en nounced for publication that he in- tends serving a wide variety of For the benefit of the innumer- sandwiches and beverage!' and is able campus camera fiends. the evPn conside1·ing putting steak on Junior Prom Committee in con- his menu for those who become junction with The Concordiensis is utterly famished from their exer- sponsoring a photographic contest tions upon the floor. At any rate for the be:;t and most enlightening there will be a very plentiful ~upply picture of P1·om Weekend at Union. of assorted sandwiches, both hot A prize of five dollars will be and cold, icP cream and cake, milk, awarded to the winner and a \very coffee. and, needless to .>ayl coca- remarkable\ booby prize will g:l to ::-ala. the fOI·tunate individual who tm·ns in the v:orst picture. The exact na- RPqUf'sts Tahll's What They Are Saying P1·exy-\This year's Prom Commit- tee deserves credit for the de- \·oted energy aNd the .intelligence shown in making preparations for the coming weekend. This certainly should be a ·memorable experience for any young lady to come here and hear Anne Kaskas sing, Benny Goodman play, and Mam ice Evans recite, to say nothing of the fraternity parties and the other general attt·actions of the cam.pus. We are all look- ing forward to it.\ Bennett-\It looks like this year's Prom will be the best yet\ BI·mmer-\It might be a little bet- ter than 1922, Chis year> but I doubt it.\ Johnny Lewis-\I think that this year's prom will surpass anything seen on this campus pr iol' to this time.\ CALENDAR Today 4:30 p.m.~ Varsity Golf, Union vs. Middlebury. 8:00 p. m.-American Institute of Electrical Engineers, meeting in library of Electrical Engi- neering Building. Election of officers. Mr. Fred W. Fisch, speaker. Tomorrow 3:30-5:30 p.m.-Glee c:ub Rehear- sal, Hanna Hall. 4:30 p. m.-Varsity tennis, Union vs. Williams. Varsity golf, Union vs. S~racuse at Syracuse. 5:00-6:00 p. m.-Public Speaking Class, Old Chapel. 8:00 p. m.-Lecture, Dr. Benj. Boss of the Dudley Observatory, \The Vast Reaches of Spac!'\ O!d Chapel. Thursda~· 10:00 a. m.~Daily Assembly, Dr. ArthUt E. Morgan, Honorary Fellow in Engineering, speaker, Memorial Chapel. 3:[)0 p. m.--American Medical Col- leges Aptitude Test, Room 106, Civil Engineering Building. ture of this award h~s no.t b~~n di:;- Gus Morrison, Committeeman in closed at } et, but 1t PI omt:;es to h f. t· · · · d b t 1 fttt'ng n · c a1·ge o opera wns, announce 8:00 p. m.-Engineering Society of S c h en ectad y meeting, Thomas Barish, speake!i Old Chapel. e ru Y a 1 · 0 e. that he intl'nds asking the fra- The contest will be . officially I tet nity how•es for a few tables opened at 12 neon on Fnday. May from which to form the cafe. He \l: and will run throu_ghout the en- feels assured that all house5 will tne cowse of the wrck-end. clo~- 20 operat~ to the fullest and ~end ing- o~iC'ially ~unday night at 12. over their be~t dining ro::~m tables Any prcture wrll go. There Will be if necessarq. At any rate, Mr. no shot;: barred and the camera Cease thinks he will need about hounds can go to the limit of their twenty-five tables in order to ac- d:J.ring and Pndurance However, commcdate the anticipated num- the spcnsor s wish to state VE:'ry ber of mid-prom diners. He express- Pmphaticaliy that they will not be ed the hope that this number could he:d responsible for any accidents be obtained. He com.plained that that may. occur to .the c~mtestants, last year the .big difficulty was and all p1cture tal;rng will be done that there were not enough tables strictly at the ri;k of the photog- to take care of those who needed rapher. refreshment in order to carry on. All pictures must ·be handed in Morrioon says that almost any kind to The Concord.y office not later of a table will do, as long as it than Wednesday night, May 14, at won't collapse under a cup of cof- 11 o'cloclc All entries mmt be on fee. K McC. glossy prints and must be no smaller than 2 1 , by 3 1 . 1 • The judges for this conte~t will be headed by Mr. A. Mikltelsen of the White Studios in Schenectady. His as~ist­ ants will be Freddy Bronner and Milt Enzer. ~----0~·~ ~ Gulnac Is Elected .Tohn Gulnac, '43, was elected president of the Chrh,tian Associa- DeWin'S LUNCH ROOM and TAP ROOM We Serve Beter Food for Better Health 118-120 JAY ST. Opp. New City Hall Friday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. Memotial .Chapel. CREDIT All material on this page with the exception of the editorial col- umn was prepared by Keith Mc- Candiess. chairman of the Junior Prom Committee. LANGE & RAP.P PHARMACY \Service for the Sic:k\ Ideal Friendship Gifts Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE ST. Call Ball ~oe, .·· .. ··.· ·•·· i · · R::ebuil·lj.··e·· .rs ...... · .··· .. · ... · .... · .•.• ···. •·. ·• ... · .. jJ····.· •. · .. · .. r.· .····· .. ··· .' ...... · ··. and Ball Will Call t····~ . .. ' [) .. ·. . ' Cleaner~ · . . · &Dycr!i PHONE 6-3456 tion in meeting held Sunday night, Clarence McCain, '41, retiring pres- ident announced yesterday. Gulnac will also serve as the Student Coun- cil representative from the group. Ronald Macomber, '43, was select- Pd as vice-preddcnt .. and Richard 1 Watanabe, '43. named secretary- treaEUt'er for next year. L---------====-------------------·1 1 c D tr: gr se Cl'· wt bu 10( stl tin an SC! Or wi an SOl an 14 fir Ca st! th da go hu ni v~ Pe fo te1 \E in re di: to St tir lh Ill LE Ti ~I th tir il }1 Ti d;:l T! Cl 1'1 fe ~-t: )l il II I\ ta Jl; II'

it- to nd his his of of on ng nj. ry, ety ng, Dr. col- Me- THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1941 Page Three Trackmen Open Home Season With Win From Vermont Orton, MacMillan, M~rrison Lead] Dutchmen to 7 4-52 W1n From Cats· Foctors in Vnion's Initial Track Victory ! Hoba:rt Stickmen i Their First Loss, Hand Dutchmen Winning, 7-1 Taki.ng the cue f1·om two men who had never run varsitv track before this year, Bill Ketz' trackmen got into th~ gro~ve Saturday and won theil· first meet of the season, up- setting the University of Vermont, 7...1-1}2, before a large crowd at Alexander field. / Fred Wikoff Scores I Only Goal Against Deacons' Defense I t:nion';; lacros>\e bubble burst I Saturday. as expected. ThP power- 11 ful Hobert College Statesmen hand- ··--~------- Purple Courtmen Here Tomorrow \\'illiams' strong tennis team will be on the campus tomorrow afte1·nuon fu1· a matc-h with the vic- tury-st•Pking Garnet netmen. \\.hile thl' L'niun tl'am was lo~ing, R-1, to Syracu~L· he1e Satulllay. \\'illiam> wa,; blanking Tl'inity, 9-0. Wally MacMillan, a :;ophomore~--­ who was ineligible for the Middle ed th\ Dutchmen their ti1·\t lick- 1 ing of the \eason by a 7-1 score on bury meet, dashed tu firsts in the 100 and 220 against reputedly strong Vermont oppodtion. Hi;; 220 time wa,; a nice :22.8. \Doc\ Orton and lanky Gus Morrison also scored double victo1 ies for Union Orton, a junior in hi;; first season with the cindermen, took the mile and half-mile in e:1sy sty!£'. MorTi· son tied for firEts in the pole vault and high jump. Vermont won only three of the 14 events, though. it also tied .for firsts in the pole vault. It was the Catamounts' second loss in as many starts, Williams having whipped them badly the previouE Satur- day. Captain Jim Bothwell fla.Ehed good form in winning the high hurdling event for Union. He was nipped at the tape by Mott, the Vermont ace, in the low hurdles. Pete Plummer tied with Morrison for first in the high jump and fra- ternity brothers W•alt Breed and \Bud\ .Sawyer accounted for firsts in the javelin throw and shotput, respectively. Bundy Shaw took the discus throw and Stan Davis loped to victory in the 440-yard dash. Summary: 1~0-yanl high hunl!e,--Hoth w~ll. II' l. tir>t; ~!ott, (\'), s~<·nnd: \\'ilkin, 11:1. third. T'ime-0:16.fi. lUO-yar<l dash-:\ladlillan, IT..'), flr\t: Breed, (\'). ~e<'OIHl; l'>trker, (\'), thir1l. Time-U: 111.7. ~lile run-llrtl>n, (l'l, first; l'. \\'eh· \ter <''), seeon<l; Hnyt, 1\'l, third Time--! :4r..9. HD-yanl da~h-Davi~. fl'), tir:·•t; Le\\i~. !e). ~t'l'UIHl; Eaton, (\'), thirtL Time -o :53.ti. T\vu-mile I'Ull-F\ \\'L·h~tt>r, ( y ). nr~t : ~l. ~lary, (\'), \\''<IIHI; H<·ed, tl'). thin\. Time-Ill :39.!. ~211-\'anl low hunllt'~-~lott. (\'), lir>t :. !loth\\ ell, !L' ), \'\'on <I: \·Villdn. <l'l. tha·<l. Time-11 :23.6. :!20-ynrd da~h-:\lat•?\1illnn, (e), fir~t: ~l<•tt, {\'). seeon<l; D:wi~. 1 C). thin\ TirnP-11: :!:!.:-.. RSII-yanl run-Orton, I C), JirH; ::ltOII· <Ianl, (\'), \'•cotul; O')leil, (l\J third. Tmu:·-~: oti.:L High jump-).lot·ri~Oll awl Plummet. (l'). th·d for tir~t; ~!ott, Bed<eJ· awl !'rat!, (\\) tied fnr thin!. Height-:. feet. 6 inche~. Dbl'U:O:: thro\\-Shaw, (l'), tir~t; Sa\\'· ~·t:'r, ( l\) ~f:'l'ontl: Parlit>l\ t \\ ), thinl Instan!'e-11:. ft., li 1 o~ in. !'ole vault- \'reelaml. ( \' l, :VIorrisou, II'), and Pratt. (\'); tim\ for tir\t Height. 11 fe~t. 6 in<'hes. !'ihotput-!'ia\\·yer. !L'I. lir\l: \\'nnlen. {\\ ), H'l'otlll: Parlu•r. ( Y ), third. J>i:-;- tant·e, 11 ft., 3 in. Javeliu throw-Breed, tl'). first: Par:--ou:-:. te). ~..,~·owl; ~if·hol~. t\\). thit·d I1i~tan(·e-11;11 ft. P2 in. Broad jump-tlof'.S rrnd ~'(ott. (_\'). tie<l for flr\t: D'AI·mulo. (l\). <hml. llh.:tatu·e-1~ ft., 7 in. ---o----- Golfers Start Season With Panthers Today It is rumored that Phil Stanley will drive out the first ball today when the varsity golf team opens its season on the Mohawlt Golf Club course against Middlebury. It is alEO rumored, though not too widely, that the linksmen will win . Win or lose, Captain Howie Molt and his boys will swing out to th_e Salt City to engage Syracuse Um- versity tomorrow. Coach Bob Cox will use four men today. Three of them are jun~ors. Captain Matt, Joe Mudge, Madrson Mitchell and \Eo\ King will for~ the combination. Tomorrow stx men will make the trip to Syra- cuse. The following men will P!ay: King, Mitchell, Matt, Jim Pmk- ston Andy Kay, and Jack Mc- Elfr~sh. Mudge is ineligible. F 0 R RECORDS 1 nteruted in Schenectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART · Tlu Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Watch arid ]erwelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS Hurler Re('r Tri('S \Iron ,Uan's Act\\ -AIUl Suc(·eeds I Library FiPld. l'nion'• attack cculdn 't get to fir\t ba>'e against the airtight Hobart defense. but 1 the Garnet inner· cirele hPid the Coach :\!a1 ve Dwu1 e i.- t?XpPct- <-d to UH• about thP same men whu faced Syracuse. Chulley Ke<·l- er, whu scu1 ed the lutlt: lJoint Sat- UI day, will play :--:o. 1 ,;inglc·~- Kt·n Sharpe, Clancy Wood war d. Em Hutchins, Ten \'ink!< and Leland Beik will [H'ubab:y round out the singles performers. . Ave1y D_cet tried the hun man'.· j JU'b la,t n1ght and succeeded very .well. After hUlling an innin~,; 1 against the faculty and striking: out two, he tool{ the mound again two hours later to beat the Kappa I vidtur~ scoreless in the ~econd and I fourth periods. I Though Union's attaC\k eontrulled N~~- I Shewn ubovP are two reasons wh:y· the track team ·beat Vermont Saturday. At the left is Sophomore Wally MaC'Millan winning the 220-yard dash with Stan Davis second. Captain Jim Bothw<'ll is seen at the I'ight, going over the next to last low hurdle. He was nipped at thf' tape by I\llott, Catamount timh(>r-toppe:· pictured W the right of Bothwell. I the ·ball in Hobart tenitu1·y neariy half of the game, 26 of the 60 min- utes, the Dutchmen were limited to eight accurate shots at the Hobart Be_er l~st his first game Friday to B1ll H11l and the Betas. His Kap mates insist that he wouldn't have loEt this if Deacon Hastings hadn't dropped a fiy ball with two out in the last inning and the Kaps ahead, 5-3, Beer would still be unbeaten. As it was, the Betas went on to win, 9-7, in extra innings. Hapless, Opening Kapless Kaps 'Boot' Game to Nine Old Men cage. Cal ClemenE, playing a stel- lar role as net-minder, stopped all but cne of these, allowing F1·eddie Wikoff to count up Union's lone scot·e late in the opening period. All-American Herb Fitch led the Hoba1·t attack. He scored three goals and made as~ ists on three others, thu~ accounting for all but cne of his team's ~cores. Co-Cap- In the doubles it will probably be Woodward - Keeler, Vinic k- Sharpe and Potter-Schattan against the Purple. Captain Doug Schat- tan and Playing Manager Phil Pot- ter may br·eak into the dngles lineup. Summary: Phi Gamma Delta continued un- beaten last night, turning back the Sigma Phis, 3-0, on three uneamed runs. The Sigma Chi ten walloped Phi Delta Theta, 10-3, in laEt night's other contest. To the sur.prise of all 26 on-looke1·s, the latest edition of the nine tain Jack Guibert played one of old men t only there were 10> got the Faculty softball season off to the best game~ of his career fot· a flying start last night by trouncing Kappa Alpha., 9-2. Union. Summa1·y: Singles- Keeler < U 1, beat Troxler <S>, 6-4, 6-4; McLaughlin <Sl, beat Sharpe (L!l, 6-1, 4-6, 6-2; Pearson <S>. !Jeat Woodward (Ul, 6-4, 6-3; Breckhiemet· <S>, beat Hutchins <U>, 6-2, 8-6; Canale <S>, beat Vinick (Ul, 6-2, 6-1: Jeffries (Sl, beat Beik < u >, 6-4, 6-4. -- --~~-- ~· Probably the only thing that Pos. Union saved the Faculty was the fact that \Ace\ Beer hurled only one inning. On the other hand, the creaking arm of Big Bill Ketz i{ept the hard-hitting Kaps in check throughout, though the los- ers exploded two more or less home 1 uns through the pedagogi- Hobart Other scores since last Thurs- day follow: Kappa Sigma 4, Sigma Chi 2; Delta Chi 3, Sigma Phi 1: ·Chi Psi 9, North College 0; Beta Theta Pi 9, Delta Jhi 0; Delta Chi 10, Psi Upsilon 1; Kappa Sigma 6, Theta Delta Chi 3. The schedule for the rpst of the week follows; Freshman Track T earn Opens Season Friday More than a month of practice will be climaxed Friday when the freshman track team opens its Eea- son a.ga·inst the R. P. I. freshmen. Strong in some events, but very weak in others, the Garnet Cubs will probably rate only an out;ide chance at best. cal infield. All in all Em Evans did pretty well against the Faculty, who were represented, among others, by Art Lawrence, \Twinkletoes\ Enzer. Today -Delt:l Upsilon vs. Beta Theta Pi I dmd. 13>; Phi .Sigma Kappa vs. Delta Chi <dmd 2>; Alpha Phi Delta Delta vs. Kappa Sigma <dmd. 3>. Tonight- Neutrals vs. Kappa Al- pha <dmd. 2>; Phi Sigma Delta vs. Sigma Chi I dmd. 1). Coach Bill Ketz has :;;lated his Gus Fox, Max Wainger, \Whitey\ cha1ges for the following events: Baker, \Book-Worm\ Hayes, \Tex- 100 and 220-yard dash-Ed Smith,: as Ernie\ Ligon and a shortstop Burlingame and Cardenas; 440- ! named AI Ciampa. Friday-Delta Phi w. Kappa Nu 1 dmd. 31; Psi Upsilon vs. Phi Gam- ma Delta 1 dmd 1 l; Theta Delta Chi vs. Phi Delta Theta 1 dmd. 2>. Friday night -Alpha Delta Phi vs. Kappa Alpha <dmd. 1>; Chi Psi vs. Sigma Phi I dmd. 2>; South Col- lege vE. Sigma Chi <dmd. 3>. Adams and Dandareau; 880-Moly- neaux, Van Dyck and Brown; mile -Jones, Lifset, Moon and Hey- woocl; high hurdles-DeWeese; low hurdies- DeWeese and Hannigan; shctput and diEcus throw-LePann and Parsons; javelin throw-Mc- Kennis; broad jump-Candela and Molyneaux; pole vault- McKennis and Anderson. ------~------------------------- Nitchman Gets Hearty Reception Arrival on Colby Campus Upon \There is little doubt that Nel-<.1•~--------------­ son Nitchman, new coach of foot- ball at Colby, will be one of the most popular mentors ever to handle a sport here,\ wrote Dick Reid, sportswriter of the \Colby Echo\ aftel' the announcement of the former Union coach's appoint- ment. Nitchman got a warm welcome from all quat ters of the Colby campus when he visited there three week5 ago and he wa~ accorded an even sounder greeting when he arrived there l:ut Friday to direct >pring training. ing. declared emphatically that \the fin·t thing tnat impre,sed me about Coach Nitchman was the fact that he was not on the field five minutes befor·e he was with the boys, talking play, and team wm k. I look for a successful season un- rler his guidance.\ President Franklin W. Johnson of Colby .>aid, \~vir. Nitchman has . 1 • been chosen after a systematic ex- amination of a fie!d of some 125 candidates. He has been a success- ful coach at a good college and comes highly recommended by all who have had contact with him ... \ \I feel sure that Mr. Nitchman will work in close coordination with the boys and insure a close \ ~~~~~;;~==~~~~~~=­ SILVER DINER I Strahan \Polishes\ Base-hits off Evans in the open- ing frame were few, though \Win- some Will\ Ketz boomed out a triple. He should have reached home, but he was playing them close to his ample vest. Then three enors in a row by \Wandering Waldo\ Strahan, who was obviously trying to polish the apple, allowed six faculty runs to patter across the plate. Features of the game included: the strikeouts Beer registered against Bill Ketz and \Texas Er- nie.\ The pedagogical infield played things well throughout, ex- cept for a grounder which Enzer booted from second base onto the Phi Delt lawn. Milt rectified this miscue a moment la.tel' when he dove to his t·ight to pull down a ccreaming liner off Beer's bat. It was the fielding gem of the eve- ning. Pleasant Valley Meat Market HOUSE OF SUNSHINE MEAT PRODUCTS Erie Boulevard ) • Quality Food - Always Oper. 586-592 BROADWAY One Step frorr State Stree1 Phone 4-3181·2·3·4 harmony of thought and action,\ wrote Johnny Daggett, leader of last fall's Colby team. w\hich won 1 seven games, tied one and won the I Maine championship. 'The en- • thusiasm of Mr. Nitchman and that i of Cantain Eero Helin, with the cooperation of ether members of; the squad, will, I feel, contribute tu; -~-~--~-~-~-~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a most successful season nPxt fall,\: li ------- Daggett prophesied. Captain-ele:t Helin was also en- thusiastic. He said, \I am very plea>ed to learn of Nitchman's ap- pointment. His winning smile and genuine enthusiasm will be a hard combination to beat.\ I Colby's All-Maine center, Ed Lor-~ Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley FcodMarket • OUk MOTTO .. Quality - Service Satisfaction 11 • 598 B'way- For Better Values SCHENECTADY ENGRAVING CO. I I I I I L_ 147 JAY STREET ENGRAVERS FOR <ttnurnrbi.rnnis GAZETTE PRESS Printers • G Holmes . . . . . . . . . . . . . Clemens P Balch ................ Be inert CP Nothacker ............. Stiles lD Newton ................ Lyttle 2D Ward ................. Bender C England . . . . . . . . . . . . . Welker lA Santee .................. Hart 2A Ostrander . . . . . . . . . . . . . White Doubles -- Breckhiemer-Troxler <S>, beat \Voodward-Keeler (UJ, 1-6, 6-2, 8-6; Pearson-McLaughlin <S>, beat Vinick-Sharpe !Ul, 6-1, 6-4; Schneed-JE'ffries <S>, beat Pot- ter-Schattan ('l:l, 4-6, 6-4, 6-3. OH Wikoff ................. Yates --·--·o· 1 ~c~:ib=~t p~;.;~~~:_-_· · · · · · · · Fitch Waiting for You! Hobat·t ........... 3 0 4 0-7 Union ...... , ..... 1 0 0 0-1 First period-Fitch <HI, 2:20; Yates <H>. 5:00; White (H>, 8:44; Wikoff <U>, 12:08. Second period- -None. Third period-Fitch <H>, 3:12; Fitch (HI, 6:15; Hart <H>, 8:06; Yates (Hl, 14:02. Since the co.llegf' has not set aside a chapel date for the award- ing of the intrammal medals and the life pasEes to managers, the winners of these awards must re- port to Mr. Wittner's office to re- ceive them personally, Mr. Wittner announced today. ThiE applies to all individuals and fraternities Fourth period--None. Saves-By Clemens CH>, 7; by whc ha.ve won award.>, Holmes CU>, 6; by Marshall (Ul, 3. ner said. Mr. Witt- Substitutions -- Union; Enstice, 1 ;====::-:: •• ;:.:-_;:-_:;_.:;:._;:-_::....::....::....::....::::===:==; Corby, Macomber, Panoff, Mara, Bedell, Norris, Marshall, Dwyer, Griffith, Davis; Hobart: Weber, Rogers, Ruckert, Miller, Morgan, Glabau, Kidd, Carter, Hoffman, IDEAL BARBER SHOP Morris. Officials Referee, Chandler; ; JUdge of play, Townsend. ' There's something about Coca-Cola,- ice-cold,- that stops thirst in its traclcs. Its delightful taste brings you the experience of complete thirst satisfaction. So when you pause throughout the day, make it the pause that 448 State Street -Our Service is Ideal --Just Try One Haircut refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola. YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY Dottled under authority of The Coca·Cola Company by SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, Inc.

Page Four THE CONCORDIENSIS, TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1941 Conferees Discuss National, I nternationa I Problems ~==-=-==-=-- -_--_ --==-- Dani,ell Scores In Address to American Student Confusio~· Delegates They Came, They Saw, They Said Delegates to the SCD conference expressed many opinions to the members of The Concordien.sis staff which are not recorded in the proceedings of the conference described in the other columns on this page an:d on the front page. ~=-;=:~~~~-~;-L_~:-~~~ ~ C R IT I Q U E ==--~=__::_ __ -_ ~- d C d <So- Lon on orrespon ent 1 Says British Morale Students, Experts Needs Bolstering Now l d _R dt bl \Bombs from the air won't win ea oun . a . es thi8 war or beat tht> British,\ Ray- mond Daniell, chief London cor- respondeM for \The New York Times,\ told th<> delegates after the dinner in Hale House on Sat- Ul'day. \The British wHI light a< long ill' they have something to fight v. ith,\ he said. \When they have no more guns, they'J.l u>e Seven Forums Afford Chance for Discussion Of Political Affairs Frida.v's dinner was a hectic meal with delegates getting acquainted and continually arriving after the meal had start- ed. l\Ieeting students from other parts of the country, with othe1· ideas, was a welcome relief from their own campuses, most of them agreed. This columnist lear•ned something that has long been puzzling ·the American press, our elders as well as poHtically minded collegia;te leaders all over the country, at the SCD conference. Through informal conversation he found what col- legiate youth does want in its or- ganization for a democracy-and i·t is not what the n;xtional pressure groups think it wants. en. They did not want to be swept along in a mad rush for convoys, air aid, f0od and material help without thinking the problem out and questioning. They wished their decision to be thek own-not an organization's. The whole mat:er of outside pres- sure groups was brought to the fore by the demand of Joe Lash and the other student leaders of The Committee to Defend America by Aid.ing the Allies that the con- fere:nce send a strong telegram to the President saying that the stu~ ·dent leaders represented were in favor of convoys. Many of the dele- ·ga:tes were against such a telegram because it rode roughshod ova.r their respective views and commit- :.ed their colleges through them. their fingernails.\ Mr. Daniell spokP at the dinner meeting of the conference, which was sponsored by the Student Com- mittee fot· Democracy in co-opt'ra- tion with the Conwtittec to DPf<•nd America by Aiding the Allies. \Thet·e cannot llc <~ !lt'gotiatt•d peace as far as Britain is con- cerned, .. the col'l't'spondent pointed out, \because that would mean tht• end of their way of life. The same t·easoning should apply to us when it comes to malting terms with Nazi Germany l'ithet· now or aftPI the war.\ SurtJI•isl\d at Con1usion Back in America on leave, :\!r. DaniPll commentc>C that he was most surprisPd by the confusion of thought and action in this country. \I find peoplP here arguing about things that we in Bngland thought wPre sE't tlPd in HJ39,\ he said. He added that 1f thts country wen aware of thP great danger there would not be 8ucr a vast division of opinion. Commenting on the London ail raids. he remarked tnat the \an ticipation is worse than the reality\ and that they make \an awful clatter.\ The destruction is com- paratively small and \we all take a cool, fatalistic attitude towards them\ He ternwd \the deadly dullnpss of them,\ the worst fpa- ture of the raids The joumalist emphasizC>d thP importance of the United States giving England evPry possible ton of shipping. \The war,\ he said. \is going to be wo,, or lost in the North Atlantic, maybe this sum- mer. The British arP an island people and when shortages begin, they get worded.\ He added that at present shortageoo; have not reached an \l.Cute stage, \hut they will unless we do something fast: Round-table discus:;ions intended to clarify the pre:oent national and international political situations oc- cupi<;d the Saturday morn-ing and afternoon p1·ogram of the Student Ccmmittee fo1· Democracy's con- ference on \Colleges in Defense of Democracy.\ \\'illiam Cantwell, \\'iII i am~ ; La1ry Smith, Oberlin; Tomi Ku- wayama and :\1uriel William,, Skid- more; Janet :\!urtacugh and Rina FnJssman, nu\sell Sage; Dick Brown, C.C.:-l. 'L.; Leonard Kohl- hofer, R.P.l.; Cecil Golann, Ear- nar·d; Richard \Vhite, Hamilton; and John Ru:okowckl, Roger :.\1ar- shall, and Han·ey Ftshbone, CI,•un. acted as student chairmen of the round-tables. In speaking of policy toward the South American countries, Dr. Enrique S. DeLozada, former Boliv- tun diplomat now teaching at Wil~ liam8, s3id that \to the Latin An1e1·icas the outconl!' of this \\'or·ld \\'ar i:; not of vital impot t· ance. Both impel blisms, Bl'itish and :;:'o;azi, arc distasteful to them. but of the two, the German is thP less painful. \South America. is our Achilles heel and we have dune little about it,\ Dr. DeLozada said. \We can- not conqupr· South America, so we must woo it, not bribe it,\ hP ndded, stating that America must make a bold declaration of her leadership in Pan-Americanism and that we mu:o<t havP a real plan in this war. Dr. DeLozada led thP round-ta.ble on the Americas held Saturda) morning. European Policy ,D1·. ::l.iark ::;ranier of Skidmore. leading a discussion Saturday on our foreign policy toward Europe, opposed ::;ending relief to Axis,dom~ inated countries becausP it would \reduce our already limited aid to I he Allies.'' He s3.id the! e should Others liked the campus, the vastness of it and its freedom from a \city\ feeling. They praised the willingness of the Union fratemities to play host to stHdents who were not affiliated with other fraternities. The girls, hot1sed in faculty homes, said that they found the Union faculty unusually friendly and interested in the work of the conference. D1·. Fox's introduction, in \Vhich he painted a picture of Union, explained the type of cmnpus the delegates were on. They liked the democratic g-athering of the heads of the four sponsoring colleges. l'nion students differed from New York students because they were not commuters and did not carry rnorning papers, New York delegates said. Delegates from out of town schools thought that Union 1·esembled their own colleges. Phases of Federal Union Discussed By Experts During Town Meeting Clarence K. Streit, head of! -- \Union Now,\ Dl'. Frederick L. Schuman, profess::Jr of political sci~ ence at \Yilliams, and Dr. Enl'ique De Lozaca acted as the discussion leaders at the EmpiJ·e State Town Meeting program, the last discus~ sion meeting of the week-end. Mr. Stt·eit urged the student dele- gates to support a provisional union with the six British and Irish democracies to carry out a \full-fisted progt·am\ if the United States desires to \end this war in a common victory of the common people on both sides over the fetish of absolutely unlimited national sovereignty.\ .. Federal Technique\ Dr. De Lozada agreed that the ··federal technique urged by Mr. Stt eit was the only effective one to use to safeguard world democ- racy, but he insisted that \right from the beginning, the Latin American countries should be in- cluded in any Anglo~ Yankee union.\ era! Union ·from the beginning, however, these countt·ies, backward as some of them are, will mean the difference between victory and defeat of Nazi Germany and the Axis by the democracies. Mr. Streit's \full-fisted program\ to be carried by a provisional Fed- eral Union, was modelled broadly on the United States Constitution. Reports of both the Williams Conference on \America in a World at War,\ and the Bucknell Conference on \Union Now,\ which took place simultaneously with the Union meeting, were given to the rlelegates on Sunday. After the program, 21 students from ten colleges sent President Roosevelt a telegram in which they declared their belief \that the se- curity of the United States de- mands that we deliver the goods to Britain now\. --~o---- Youth wanted the opportunity for discussing problems facing youth in a democracy. And it got that opportcmity in tile main. Chance was given students in the round- t·ables and at the banquets to ex- press their own opinions and they took it. Typical was the experience of this columnist, wh0 expressed his own views of the necessity of waging an undeclared sea and air war on the side of Britain with two other deiegates, one from Rus- s€!! Sage who believed in no aid other than material and a-nother who believed that the war might be won by the allies if they could incite the mass of conquered Eu- rope to fight by suppl•ying them with food which would ma;ke them strong enough to resist. pelegates listened to the opinions of others, argued and perhaps learned some- thing, but they did not seek to force an agreement of views upon the other side. What they do not want is out- side graduate leaders, paid profes- swnals in organizing public opin- ion, leading and seeking to take over their undergraduate organiza- tions. While undergraduates did not doubt the sincerity of such !('aders of the Collegiate Division of The Committee To Defend America by Aiding the Allies who were invited to the conference to give their viewpoint, they wondered if their insistance to cornmi t the group and their colleges was wise. All agreed with them that aid to the allies was necessary but they differed as to how it shall be giv- The ELITE TAILOR 516 Union Street Tuxedos for R.enf J. CORNELL, Prop. Upshot of the w:10le .business was the awakening of collegiatP. repre- sentatives to a rea-lization of where graduate leaders of pressure groups would take them. The leaders, they decided, were good speakers, full of charm, and well informed, but seeking to create a disciplined pres- sure group which would follow any line with the unaminity of the Young Communist League or the American Youth Congress. Discussed by the delegates was a new national organization which would serve as an undergraduate forum leader, would co-ordinate the work of the campus, would allow each campus to follow its own in- clinations in serving democracy in the way it saw fit and would not allow the opinion of undergradu- ates to become a commodity that might be 8haped at wilL S. B. Unquestionably Favored! ARISTOCRAT ICE CREAM BELLEVUE DAIRY 0 23 Awards Presented At Annual Prize Day be no question about ou1 :;ending all-out\ aid to Britain. The round-t~ble on the Fa1-East was led by Dr. David N. Rowe of Princeton University. Dr. Rowl pointed out that since the Far East ~~ an imp01tant 1:a1t of the world 3cene, American Far Ea~tern Pol- ;ey is of vital imp01 tance. Professor Schmr.an declared that SClENCE LECTURE D~. Benjamin Boss of the Dud- :ey Observatory wi!l spealt on \The Vast Reaches of Space' in the Old Chapel tomorrow night at 8 o'clock. This will be the third in a defeJt of Britain would kill any poscdble Pan-Arr.crican union and therefore we should strive for a \Pew version of the Anglo- Yankee imperialism.' so tl::at South Amell- <Continued from Page 11 History· awarded tQ Jame\ Gar- field Shaw. of Schenectady. The StPrnfPld Philo,;ophical PrizP: av<:·udPd to John Prior Lewis. of Hudson Falls. ThP Thom~on l:!;conomic>' Prize: nwardPd to At mand Vall in Fei~;en­ k,um, '43, of Pittsfield. Ma\s. Th<' Jarres Henry Turnbull PdzP: awarded to Franci\ James Jankow~ki. '43. of Tribes Hill. The Van OrdPn Prize: awarderl t·_, Albert Hm·tan Kronick. ThP \Vanw1 Prize. awmded to J,•hn PI io:I I.•·wis of Ilud,on Fall\ D1awir.g Award. I.a,;t year m thP Annu.1! EnginPering Dr!lwing Cump~etition sponsored b\' the So- ciety for the Promotion. of Engi- net·J ing Educatiui• in which stu- dents from 29 ins tit utkms submit- ted diawing,, a fils' jlacP award In one of thP cla~sificatiuns w;.:?J mad<> to a membe1· of the Class of 1943 in Union Col]p<·e. The award was rr.ade to Frank Jo><Pph Sala- mone of SchenC\2t:J.dy. 0 Ralston Class Officer Thomas H. Rt:lston u r.·pn·ber of t·he class of 1940 at Union and now a member of the first year class in the Columbia Law School, is serv- ing as vice-pi esident of his class. Ralston has also been elected to membership in Burdick Moot Court. one of the fifteen moot court clubs in existence at the New York s~hool. Two other Union graduates are also in the fiz st-year class They are Harry G. Silleck. Jr., '40, and Robert A. Young, Jr, '40. GET YOUR CAR IN TRIM FOR TRIP HOME DOUW F. BEEKMAN 60 I UNION STREET Open Until 11 P. M. The J·ound~tablPs on rationdl J,J·cblC>ms tcuk JClace Saturday aft- ernoon. Lewis Corey, author of 'The House of MorgaP,\ during :he discus<.ion of the Ba,;es of De- mocracy, declared that \the futmc vf dPmocrary dl'pcnds on a dPcisiv<> defeat of Germ:my.\ \Great Britain b the final proof that democracy can be maintained in war time,\ he added, decl:lring later that \We :'eed a system of economic cl::ecks r,nd baLlnces.\ DL Wil!idlll Agai, advisoiy ex- pert in :he discu>sion on resources 111 defer.:oe, dec'ait>d that there ;hould be no !Pgi~latio:-t prohibitmg Ia bJI' to strike. Acting as advisory ext:ert in the round-table on \Defense Emer- gency and N3t-ioral Pr::>i;l\P\s,\ Dr. Douglass \\', Campbell, Assistant PwfPssor of GovernmPnt, sa.id that \The irreducible essence of democ- racy is its dedication to the max- imum use of persuasion and the minimum u~e of coercion, of force.\ ,Dr. Arthur Sw<>etser, who was aavi\ory expert at the discussion on the \Umted States ·and Future World Order,\ said that we must kill false isol.J.tionism and recog- nize that we are vitally concerned in the family of nations. Products for Better Quality • Cream and Dairy Products Cream-Crest Milk PHONE 4-3121 General Ice Cream Corpa C:ln count I ies will co-operatp more seric: cf ~ciencc lectures fully with the United S~ates and a1 c open to the public. Britain. Asked if ne th:mght South. Arr.cr ican cour.tt i.cs wcu!d bP willing tc riJk war by joining the TJrited Stat 2s and Britain in a fedcl'J 1 union, Dr. De Lozada said \only ·· trey .:~re perrr.it' eu to enter this war on the side of the United <;:'tatcs and Brit :tin to protect such a Federal Union will the South A1:1ci i?nn countries become irter-1 2sted m the outcome of this Vlar. 1 To them it now appe::ns a world! st1 uggle by rival ir.'r;erialisms Pach I PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 'f '·:hich is putPntially an evil to' 2 Cl S Scut'1 America. If L~tin American I Ob inton +. count ties UI'C invited to j8in Fed~ 1 liCE CREAM DAIRY PRODUCTS b~~· GREEN JR. DAIR~ 1 • 3 • 2161 J. S. HANDELMAN QUALITY GROCERIES and MEATS Fresh Fruits and Vegetables Daily Fresh Butter and Eggs FltEE DELIVERY Phone 6a6016 920 State St. Ta\k about a swel\ treat ••• just sin\< your teetb into smooth DOUBLEMINT GUM f l chewing satisfaction, Yes, or rea 1 . · . k r teeth into de lCl.OUS · ust s1n you full 'rioUBLEMINT GUM. Velvety-smooth,. of refreshing flavor. CheWl~g DOUBLEMINT daily adds fun to sp~r s, informal get-togethers, study sesslons. Helps brighten your teeth and swel~ttle:, A d costs so t~ · your breath, too. n d Bu several packages today . • . an : y delicious DOUBLEMINT every day. ~0 ~ Vo G 4 1 Be nee of 70 SOl Pr eve del pa Pr an COl m~ ne leg Fr· of an en an tu BE an 21 le! 19: fa; th al! 1:.:1 ac eJ or u M Ul F: E· as of T ' f: e tl a b r 1 ' t s

