: • • • • own the cen- erto an.d aria Art and two own Con de ac- at t1Je also c of \Le and and on La paid in ~AY NG , ii • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Vol. LXV. No. 43 PHONES· Edltor.lai 4·0133 · · Press 4·4141 The Student Newspaper of Union College SCHENECTADY, N. Y., TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1942 • Sigma Chi Pictures Page 4 Price Sc Directors Chosen .For Mountebanks'· lrish Reviva:l ',Phantom• Th.ief VisHs D Ph<i's 1 Phi Gams The ph:mtom-li,ke thief who has, of late, been an early- morning visitor at a number of f,raternity houses left an- other trail of mystery behind him at two more houses re- cently, one last week, and an- other Sunday, but in neither .place was able to make .off with anything of value. G 1 1eeH ClubPRec~rd Sigma Chi Will Get New House; o a·ve · rem1'ere • on uBs This week Location To Be Nea~rer Campus Miss Grace Halsey Mills Has Proven Capable Performa~ce at RCA Studio - -- -- ---$- Union St. Residence Termed H1ghly Successful: 730 Union Street Of Produdng Success Sales to Begin in Month First campus· hearing for the t•ecot•d of college songs made by the Glee Club Saturday will be held ·near the end of this week when an advance copy is played over UBS, Miss Grace Halsey Mills has been selected as the director of the , forthcoming Mountebanks produc- tion, John Millington Synge's \The Playboy of the Western World,\ P:·oduction Manage1· Stanley Green announced today. She will arrive on campus Saturday afternoon, March 7, and tryouts will take place· Saturday evening, Sunday and Monday. One night last week, mem- bers of the Delta Phi chapter in vestiga•ted suspicious sounds on the '.first floor of the house. Their appearance on the scene evidently frightened away the prowler, and the \posse\ never caught so much as a glimpse of the vanishing villain. · W. James Stillman, '42, said yester· day. The exa.ct day and time for , . the record's \pr will be an- nounced later. he said. Miss Mills, currently teaching and lecturing at the Feagin School of Dramatic Art at Rockefeller Centre, New York City, first ap- peared as a member of Sir Philip Ben Greet's celebrated company which toured the United State. She has played numerous Shakespear- ean roles in this company, which was first to introduce the outdoor theatre, later ada.pted by Charles Coburn's Mohawk Drama Festival, here on the college campus. Miss MiUs was also the manager of one of the Red path Lyceum cir- cuits, which traveled about the country playing before many schools and colleges. More recently, Broadway has applauded her performances with Ruth Gor·don and Dennis King in Jed Harris' revival of Ibsen's \A Doll's House,\ and John Wexley's \They Shall Not Die,\ the play about the Scottsboro case. No stranger to Celtic drama, she has appeared with Barry Fitzgerald in \The White Steed\ by Paul Vin- cent Carroll, another celebrated play of the modern Irish theatre. The \phantom\ paid another visit to the Phi Gamma Delta House early Sunday morning from which he had \lifted\ money just a week befor·e. This time he was almost trapped, as three Pri Gams, on the first floor at the time, ascended the stairs to investigate noises heard among the rooms on the second floor. W1len this in- trepid trio investigated the sit- uation in one of the rooms, the visitor quickly slipped out of another, down the stairs, and vanished into the night, but once again, without loot. Houghtons •Move In' at Silliman Hall Commenting on the record itself, Stillman said it was of consensus of Glee Club members that the club had never ,given a .better perform- ance of the college medley. R. C. A. officials, too, compli- mented the Glee Club on its rendi· tion. Mr·. George L. Keane, head of the R. C. A. recording service, who supervised the recording process himself, cal'led the perfor·mance, \Unsurpassed\. Mr. Keane had just returned from work on recordings for several other college groups, in· clud.Jng one from Dartmouth. Of.ficials Praised The Glee Club started work on the two sides of the record at 10 a. m. on .Saturday and worked fOl' two hours, ·almost without inter· ruption, to mal!e sure of best re- sults. Stillman praised the cooper- ation of the R. C. A. officials, who, The Rev. Herbert R. Houghton, he said, took every precaution to Jr., and Mrs. Houghton, completed make the record perfect. the moving from their former The pressing which will be used home, at 642 Nott Street, to their by UBS late this week will ·be the ·new residence on the third floor only copy of the record available of Silliman Hall last Saturday aft- for some time. Because R. C. A. ernoon. has turned a large portion of its The new horne of the Sigma Chi FI·aternity, which is expected to be ready for occupancy by April 1. Sigma Traced Chi's Over Progressive History Twenty-Three Years By ROBERT G. MEGAW Sigma Chi, '44 Twenty-three years ago four members of the class of 1920 felt the need for a more democratic ·basis of fraternity life at Union. Their first step was to introduce a <®--------- the saving is allocated to a chapter gift fund which will take care of a large portion of the annual re- pairs. Mr. Gordon Rust, in comment- ing on the selection of Miss Mills to direct the coming play, noted the unusual difficulty of directing Celtic plays similar to \The Play- boy of the Western World.\ He said that while in New York re- cently he had spoken with several prominent Broadway directors, none of whom was willing to un- dertake a production of this type. All, however, recommend·ed Miss MH!s for the task. The floor above The Concordien- facilities over to .government de· sis and New Bureau offices had fense worl!, it is probable that formerly been a storeroom. In copies of the record will not be completely remodeling the floor, available for sale for about a new fraternity to the campus. This local. Delta Theta, grew to be the equal of many of the national fra- ternities, and by far the best local. This was the forerunner of the Gatnma Zeta Chapter· of Sigma Chi. the roof wu:s raised to give more month. room and air. the walls repainted The original order for 200 records and papered, and the dormer win- has been cut to 100 in an effort to dows changed for maximum light. speed delivery. R. C. A. officials The new home consists of four pointed out that the smaller order rooms and a bath. This former would have a better chance of com· storeroom is now a cheery apart- pletion than the original request. ment of a living room, study, Orders for the record will be kitchen, and a large bedroom, I taken on the campus before deliv· these rooms are larger tha:n. those ery, however. Stillman said that he in the Houghtons' former home. was unable to set the price as yet. 2. w·e have taken our corporation account \out of the hole\ and now' have almost a $5,000 surplus. 3. The members of the active chapter have set up a New House Fund which insures the financial stability of our future building plans. 4. Scholastically, we have jumped from twelfth to fifth ·place among the fraternities at Union, and are one of the three fraternities at Union a;bove the scholastic average of the National Fraternity 'Co•lncil. Saturday's casting will be de- voted largely to those members of the cast who will not be from the undergraduate body. The latter two days will be devoted to casting of student parts. A description of the parts avail- able for students and an outline of the play was presented in the last issue of The Concordiensis· in an article by Walter J. Schulz, '43. -~ -o---- since the final figure will depend Classical Club somewhat on the method used to package the records. He estimated· Mr. Codman Hislop, English in- the approximate cost as being structor, will be the guest of the something over one dollar. Classical Club at the home of Dr·. I! Contrary to previous reports, thP George Kellogg at 7:45 this eve- 12-inch Victor Red Seal record will ning. He wiU speak on the \Re·' not be sold through record dealers examination of the Schenectady I or through the Victor catalog. The Massacre\. All students ar~ invited sale will instead be carried on only to attend. 1 through the college. Charlie Spivak's Rise To Fame Proves Latest Sensation of the Music World By ROBERT NEMEROFF '4.3 .Concerning Union's Junior Prom I men. as Glenn Miller, Bob Crosby, • 1 Noble's band. He decided he want- Maestro, critics said, \Watch Char- and Ray McKinley. ed to stay in New York. So he be- lie Spivak in 1941!\ Music trade About that time Ray Noble came came a free-lance artist, and work- and fan magazines such as \Metro- to America for the first time. He ed in most of the important com- nome'', \Song Parade\ and \Down- was told by the union that he could mercia! radio shows, including the beat\ selected Spivak's group a.s not use English musicians, but Ford Hour, the AI Pearce Show, \The Band of 1941.\ Charlie and would have to form an American the Kate Smith Show, and Fred his boys shattered by a tremendous Allen's program. margin a long standing record at Then came the urge to connect the Glen Island Casino. with ~- regular ·band and he joined Most of Union's student body Jack Teagarden. It was during this knows about the current success time that Glenn Miller suggested story of Spivak. But what about that he form his own band, and a him before his pr·esent popularity? few months later, Charlie had a Charlie comes from Connecticut group of musicians playing under -the state that has turned out his banner. Glenn helped him with such bandsmen as Artie Shaw and arrangements, offered suggestions Tony Pastor. He was educated at about personnel, and otherwise Hill House High School in New helped Charlie avoid the pitfalls Haven. At that time he was quite · that marked his ·own bid for fame. proficient as a trumpeter, and re- Early in his career, Spivak and ceived an offer to play with the his band were booked into tl:!e Glen Paragon Orchestra in New Haven. Island Casino, hailed as the In spite of the fact that Spivak \.Springboard to Swing Aristoc- had intended continuing his educa- racy,\ birthplace of half a dozen of tion at Brown University and the Nation's top ·bands. After a studying medicine, this offer was spectacular engagement at the too tempting. He joined .the band Summer Roadhouse, Charlie's band and stayed with them until Paul was booked for a return run,. be- Sp.echt of.fer~d him a job. Spivak ginning in January. T.his necessi- remained ~ith Specht for five tated that the Casino remain open years, and then joined Benny Pol- for the winter season, and thereby lack, playing first trumpet. Among OHARLIE SPIVAK shattered a long-standing precedent . the present day greats who played That this was a wise move is now in that S!lii:ne outfit were Jack Tea- band. Glenn Miller was assigned to a matter of record, for Charlie garden, Nattie Matlock, and Ray select the men for Noble, and the Spivak and his orchestra have Baduc. Charlie's next position was first. man he hired was Charlie proved to be the biggest drawing with the Dorsey Brothers' Band, Spivak. Spivak's career too·k a power ever to play at Glen Island . where he played along with such sl!ght turn after playing with Ray (Continued on Page 4) As Delta Theta members, these far sighted young men had pur- chased as their chapter house the residence at 701 Union Street. This was the second step in Gamma Zeta's history. The third occurred Dec. 3, 1923 when Delta Theta re- ceived its charter from Sigma Chi, a step that has granted honor and distinction to scores of men during the twenties, thirties, and now the forties. During the past few years the ac- tive members of Sigma Chi have seen the need for another step for- ward. They had begun to feel the crimp of space. A definite need for more adequate quarters was seen. The solution has been reached through the untiring efforts of Wil- liam R. Coates '42, past consul of the house, and with the cooperation of our young and progressive board of directors under the leadership of Clarence Gregg, class of '23. After five hours of deliberation, this ·board, realizing the advantages to 'be derived from a new and larger house voted unanimously to acquire the Case estate at 730 Union Street to be used as the new home of Sigma Chi here at Union. Recent Accomplishments We of Sigma Chi here at Union College are proud of our recent ac- complishments. 1. We are the only house at this college operating on a 100% cooper- ative basis. All the working func- tions of the house which were at- tained previously only at the cost of approximately $1200 annually are now done by the members on a cooperative basis. Om'!•third of 'Hit Parade' Poll Wednesday 5. We have improved the physical status of our house at 701 Union Street, and now we are preparing to move into the well-known and honored Case Estate. By keeping \on the move\ all the time, and by keeping our eyes open for new ideas to improve our con- ditions, we have developed a keen spirit of fraternalism and a sense of responsibility and leadership. We have 'been paid a great tribute :by L. G. Balfour, Past Consul of Sigma Chi, and more ·recently Chairman of the National Interfraternity Council when he wrote, \You have the spirit of one of the greatest chapters .in the country.\ We hope to live worthy of this praise and feel that our present step forward exemplifies it to a great degree . We are confident that with the continued support and guidance of our alumni, and through enthus- iasm and a continuance of the de- velopment of initiative and leader- ship within the active chapter, Sigma Chi will go on to new heights in moral, physical, and spiritual accomplishments. 0---- Sigma Xi to Hear Leonard Dr. Samuel Leonard, associate professor of Zoology at Cornell University, will speak on \Factors Influencing the Growth of the Mammary Gland,\ at a meeting of the Union College Chapter of Sig- ma Xi Society, to be held Friday, Mal'ch 6 at 8 P. M. in Room 205 of the Biology Building on the college campus . The student poll for the selec- Dr. Leonard wa.s a member of the tion of the ten most popular songs Union faculty from 1933 to 1937, on the campus will be held this serving during that period as as- Wednesday at Daily Assembly. The sistant professor of Biology. He is \Hit Parade\ choices will all be an authority in the field of endo- played by Fred Gray and his band crinology. His contributions in- at the Freshman-Sophomore dance elude studies on the pituitary gland, on Saturday night. This innovation on sex hormones, and on tr.e thy- marks the first time that students raid in birds and mammals. will be given the chance to hear ----o their favorite· dance tunes. Saerc:hinger To Speak Here Another feature of the dance is Cesar Saerchinger will :;peak at the \late permission\ which has the home of Dr. ana Mrs. Langsam been obtained for the Skidmore at the International Relations Club dates. The girls attending the in- D;~eeting tomorrow at 8:00 p. m. His formal will not be required to re- topic will be \After the War- turn to Saratoga until 1:00 a.m. I What?\ . Called Step Toward Place on Cam,pus Negotiations for the rental of the house at 730 Union Street by the Sigma Chi fraternity were com- pleted Saturday night at a meeting of the board of ti·ustees of the local chapter's cOI·poration, ofliicers of the hou:;e said Sunday. The chap- ter· plans to occupy the house, which is nearer the college campus, for a period of five years, at the end of which time members expect to ·be ready to build a new chapter house on the campus. William R. Coates, '42, and John L. Dutcher, '43, now president of the Union chapter, spokesmen for the fraternity, said that the chapter would immediately petition the col- lege administration for an alloca- tion of land on the campus which might be used for an on-campus chapter house. Necessary impr·ovements on the new chapter house, which is the former· residence of the late Anna B. Case, will be undertaken imme- diately. Coates and Dutcher said that it was hoped that the new , house would be ready for occupa- tion by a·bout April 1. A house- warming is being planned to coin- cide with Junior Prom week-end, April 10, 11, and 12. Although the .major portion of the improvement will be carried on by hired WOI•kers, members of the fraternity plan to devote week-ends and spring vacation to work on the study rooms of the new house. No major renovations in the basic plan of the house are contem- plated, Coates said, indicating that the house is readily adaptable to the needs of the fraternity. Most of the rooms will be re-papered and re-painted, however. Case House Favored The signing of the necessary pa- pers Saturday night followed some two months of negotiations, chapter officials said. Previous to this time efforts had •been made to obtai~ use of the former DeForrest resi- dence at the corner of Union Street and Seward Place and to obtain other places of residence. These efforts were abandoned in favor of the Case house, however, because the latter residence seemed most suited to the needs of the chapter. Coates said that the new chapter house would provide one-third greater living capacity than the present house at 701 Union Street, or room for a1bout 26 men. \The outcome of our negotiations has pleased us a great deal,\ Coates said Sunday. \It has been something of an ordeal, and there were several times when we thought it would fall through com- pletely.\ \In a sense,\ he continued, \we are putting ourselves under pres- sure. We have set out to be ready to move to the campus in five years, and now must fulfill that purpose. However, I have every confidence that our aim will ·be ac- complished\. \Entering this plan for our chap- ter location should have another definite advantage,\ the former chapter president went on. \It will train the men in our house in leadership and the handling of re- sponsibility.\ \I feel further,\ he said, \that the success we have had in build- ing up the fund necessary for mov- ing to this new house proves the value of the co-operative financial system we have used for the past few years.\ Coates explained that his fratet·\ nity had been employing a 100 per cent co-operative system of work for the men in the chapter. Every man in the house takes part in per- forming duties formerly carried on by hired help, he said, thus effect- ing a saving of some $1600 a year, including about $400 of which is al- located now for repairs. Success of the local chapter's ef- forts to procure a new campus house will depend largely on alum- ni support, Coates said. He indi- cated that alumni activities on be- half of the chapter had recently been excellent. \We hope that our alumni will be able to continue this fine support,\ he ·said.

ijl~t Qlnnrnrlli:eU!ilB TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1942 EDITORIAL 2 ~lemL\r of the Associated Coll~glate Press nud <Hs- tr.UJUtor of thl' ColJ.,l,linte 1 ,.,gt•:--t itt..~ pi c~t·ntcd f1•1 ~atlonal .:\dn:rti:::nng by ::'\at~nual .\tlverti:-o.ing St•r\·- ll't•. Itt<'., College 1-'ultll~h- t:>l'b l:t:pre~entaLlve. 4:!U illnnrur E:dit'}rinl Office. Silliman Hall. t.:uiou CCJilege. l'ub- licatiCJn Offic~. 'fhe ·Ga- zette Pre\''• 3:!4 State :-;t, Eutcrt=d iu the Hc.lLeii~c­ tady Po;:;t ·oHiee as ~L·t·­ tllll·l Cla~s :\lail :\latter. suU::::crlptiuu fil' a eupy; ~3 )-car: tleli \'l'l'Cll auywllere rll Ute l\lllted States. !socialist Thinking Leader Decries Wishful Town Meeting At Record \ C.ws.1 Pas.1 P.nol~ A;,s.u'' )l;llll~UII .\ \'t:IIUt., );cW Yuu~ L'll}.. By NORMAN FENSTER )1,\:>;.H;I:>;!; 110\Hil Huht·rt 11. IIH)I•t.'l\ ......... l 1 •·lt:t l'p~il 11 11 [luu ... t .. l~i~':.!-'. . ................ ~l·.dltor-ln•('hh··t' .ltl' .. t-iu Pt•J:htt·.ln ....... .. . .. 1<\..lppa :'\u l'i.•·ll:--t 1--;\:::!1. .. • .....•.......... Bu..,int·'~ Jlunuqt>l' f.tall~t·r lri}J}I . . . l'h·i ~tt.:Til:t l'.IJ'I'·' JJ.,q~, 1 ~n.·~,;... . 'l.alluM·iug· Fllit.or ll.t 1'\ t•J- ,J. Fi..,hhont• . . . . . . . I' a ppa :\u II ou-.:t·---1-7:1:n. . . . . . . . ............ , ......... SJHH't\' Etlilnr Norman Thomas, Socialist leader, \ warned a rf'cord audience of the 'I' S11!1day \Town Meeting of the Air\ 1 ngaind thQ dangprs 0f wi~hfui 1 1 1 thinking in Utopian 131M.e('n.·ints and the complacent belief that the war ! wiH mm·e on automatican.y lending I it~elf to a lasting and desirable 1 peace. He said that, \We Amer- Two Socialist Leade·rs \ultt•r -'· ~c·hulz . . . . . . . . .1 :--:nut II ;--'t·t·.ta'Oll, ~(IJ {II l'l•lleg!• tiw~JUtiti .••. 0 ••••••••• 0 ••• 0 •• Ft•aturt.• Ed.ilur s .. , muur Tl•h•-luuan . . . . . . ... , l.'h1 ~igrn;.t l)l'lta l11 u:-~L· li-lljtj;,, .... 0 0. o •• 0 •• o. 0 •••••• ('hil'f ('OI)J Editor \.,~I' IIHL ll \\ • I oX:_· .:_· _;._;._;._c__:_:_ ____ ..:.\..:.' '~::.:· 1.:_:11:_:_:1 _:_I '..:.11:__1 _:I_:' I:_:_. I_:' •_:_1:.:_1~ \\:_:~_:.! _..:.;_.:..:_.:..__:_;__:_:_·..:.· .:..;\:.;.· .:..· :_:· ·.:_· :_:· ·.!_·l'~h~u~lrlli~g·~·l'l'!:JI'I!!!' h~i<~' ~J·::,::: li~!I~Oio (',\l'} Bunni 1-~.'t'IJ.t.l•l t'unl~o :---t.t!lh) t.iltt'll •• \lill'It t:,u .. duc.>'' .~tan .\'ll·lvtllt:' )lt:'~~ellgl'r, l)a\'itl Ho!->l'llhlluu. h .. !Ulllt'l .... ti·t·PI~t· ,\(tdllitllll ... ~. ;\HHll :-'.t·!dH>Il,t, :--'.ll;l ;oJ,I, \I., t ;,lllll'l .\It-:_ .. ( 1. .1.11 ·d• 1 ;. ·'d-.t• tw. I;,,, .. 1'-•lli'Jll:tJ.. :--:ila:-- ~t't'i·11~ }l,tll. • .lull! .VI:hot1 .• I o..:t·ldl llatllltlll, Tll.•tua:--: Hutllllali. PhotoATHJlhk Bounl ·!.,.,,11 .lal'.nh.,ou, ,h·rome \\'t~iu- :o. ~ t' ~ II HI. NEIGHBORSI It is with a good deal uf pleasure that we extend best wishes and felicitations to the Concordy's new neighbors who have moved into their newly furnished apmtment above ou.r editorial rooms in Silliman Hall. Sentimentalists have told us that \it takes a heap of livin' to make a house a home,\ but, even on our first visit to the shining, new dwelling above us, we co1:1ld not help but feel the warm, friendly glow of \hominess\ that already seems to pe1·vade the place. All of which goes to prove that it's really the people who live the1·e that \make a house a home.\ So, from us of the Concordy to Het·b and :\lary and, yes, to Henry the dog, the best of everything. :i.\lay you go on for many a year after we have gone our way, putting up ·with other groups of bedraggled journalists, saJr- ing a cheery ''hello\ to break up the long hours of their hectic nights, and carrying out your threat to share with them not only the warmth of a steaming cup of coffee, but also the pleasing warmth of your friendly hospitality which, we know, we'll always re- membel' when we think of the Houg-htons, of the Concordy, of Union. SIGMA CHI SPIRIT The Sweetheart of Sigma Chi will have a new abode when she visits the campus this Junior Prom week-end, and for this long- awaited accomplishment Gan1ma Zeta, the ninetieth chapter of Sigma Chi fraternity deserves heartiest congratulations. Sigma Chi does not rank anwng the oldest of Union's fraternities, no1· has it long had a position of eminence in their midst. But the men who have composed its Union chap- ter in recent years have been, in the best sense Of the term, true fraterpity men. Typical of this group of men, and out- standing in their midst, has. been \Yilliam Raymond Coates, '42, v,;ho is truly unique among Union's fraternity men. Possessed of energy and ability equal to that of any of the campus leadet·s of recent years, Coates has devoted all his extra-cm·ricular efforts to the advancement of his fraternity. In effecting the economies prerequisite to the financial gains they have made, the membe1·s of Sigma Chi have set an example of cooperation and fraternity spirit worthy of consideration by others among Umon's fmternal g-roup. The spectacle of a house in which every member shares equally the duties ordinarily assigned to paid undergraduates or outside help, so that the salaries of waiters and stewm·ds might be saved, is indeed extra- ordinary het·e and probably elsewhere. The conception of a group of undergraduates giv- ing up week-ends and spring vacation to the improvement of a chapter house is at least unusual. There is always with us that quaint little group of articulate souls who tell us that the fraternity system is a dying institution, that the problems of the war \Vill present the fra- ternities with exigencies beyond their capa- bilities. If the fraternity spirit at Union lives as strongly in other chapters as in Gamma Zeta of Sigma Chi, and we have every reason to believe that it does, then there is little cause to fea1· for the futme of the fratern- ities at their mother college. -G.T. GO CLIMB A TREE DEPT. A typewriter, like an automobile, is an in- sidious invention. Both are fi:ne examples of the ma1·velous advances of science when used properly, both begin to look rather silly when the actions of the \driver\ slip a peg or two. Wrapped neatly around the telephone pole of intellectual misguidance was \The Schenec- tady Gazette's\ rathe1· discouraged-looking editorial column of last Saturday morning. The editorial writer seems to have over- looked a few of the circumstances surround- ing the Founders' Day exercises-the fact that the program is a part of a busy college day, directly preceded and followed by classes, the fact that Founders' Day replaces a regular Daily Assembly program, that stu- dent attendance is, practically speaking, vol- untary, constituting an hour taken, for pure interest's sake, from what are all too seldom truly intellectual pursuits. If informal dress in the press of these cir- cumstances is a crime, may we be delivel'ed from the sacrosanct precincts of Schenec- tady's ultra-elite, \vhose Chesterfieldian gm·b has been escaping us of late. \The Gazette\ must be hal'd-pressed for material upon which to edit01·ialize if such subjects are to fill its columns. -G. T. The editorial follows: \Union College had one of its more impor- tant functions recently when it marked Founders' Day with special ceremonies. Guest of honor was Dr. H. R. van Houten, first secretary of the N ethetlands legation, who gave the Founders' Day address in ~Iemorial Chapel. \Well known in his own right, Dr. van Houten also represented Dr. Alexander Lou- don, Netherlands minister to the United States, who was una:ble to attend be<.!ause of pressure of business. Dr. van Houten re- ceived the honorary degree Union had con- ferred upon Dr. Loudon as the latter's proxy. \The Founders' Day exercises in the chapel were attended by the student body of the college as well as by a number of towns- people and presumably some persons from other cities. The chairman of the college's board of trustees, the president of the insti- tt.~ion and the senior professor were among the dignitaries taking part in the ceremonies and the entire faculty was in academic dress. \The contrary was the d1·ess of the stu- dent body. Possibly it is considered 'aca- demic' but from an entirely different point of view. From what couid be seen of the stu- dents when a torso rose out of the maze of feet propped up on the backs of seats, their attire was something resembling that of a lumberjack in the far north. \Red flannel shirts, here and there a pair of suspenders without benefit .of a .concealing coat and other eccentricities of dress were much in evidence. To be sure there were some neckties and suit coats to be seen, but there were 11ot e!lwgh of them when one considered the august gathering. \No one expects or wants the avera.ge col- lege boy to be a Beau Brummel. It does seem however, that when an institution like Union Coll-ege has an event distinctly formal ii1 nature its students could dress on that occa- sion, at least, in a manner that would re- flect more tq the credit of the college ru:rl the city which is proud of it.\ icans may easily be .tempted to con- tinue big armaments and adoption of an a~gressive imperiaiism to dis· pose of our own surplus products.\ Speaking on the broad topic. \What Kind of Peace Do We Want?\ Mr. Thomas stated that at this time it would .ae easier and more va·luable to discuss what ·must not happen after this war if we a1'e to attain the sought-after last- irrg peace. In his program outlin- mg dangers to this goal, he averred in brief that: 1. The Atlantic Charter is not only grossly inadequate as a plan for peace, as interp!'eted ay Messrs. ~hurchiH and Knox. It is an ap- pallingly expensive and inevi·tably unsuccessful program for forcing Jn Anglo-American peace upon the world. 2. The English speaking people alone can neither win the war ·nor make the peace, \The old British Empire ·cannot .be reestablished and maintained by the most costly American underwriting.\ 3. \The epic of white supremacy, especially in Asia, is definitely over. The one chance for Asiatic help in the emergency is for Great Britain immediately to satisfy the demands of the Indian people under the leadership of Nehru or Gandhi or both.\ Norman Fenstpr, '43, and Norman Thom.as discuss the latter's talk after the Empire State Town Meeting of thl\ Air on Sunday. -Staff Photo .state. Between the major group- II be lawless and arrogant· it must ings of people and nations there be for the welfare of the world 4. \Since so much in a military sense depends upon Russian and .Jhinese arms, it is perfectly clear that the Russian and Chinese gov- should be some machinery for so- community. That means no armed ernments must be primary powers cia! and economic cooperation and aggression, no dangerous piling up at the peace table.\ for creative and C<.;nstructive dis- of ai·maments, no economic injus- 5. \It follows that while the wors·t cussion of what kind of machinery tice to other nations, no persecu- is emphatically in order.\ tion of minorities, no obstinate peace would be one imposed by the \More important,. however, than blocking of the will of the world Axis, the best would be one which any machinery for the future is the community.\ expresses the deep-lying ambitions attitude we develop now. An Amer- \Nations must accept their role of all peoples, as distinct from ica which will make democracy in the world community\ he con- government, toward a chance to work at home must reJ'ect race dis- t' stop wholesale· murder and to turn ct•t'mt'natl'on, guarantee equalJ'ty of mued, \Isolationist irresponsibility . on their part is no rr.ore moral than t~e :achi:nery of devastation into treatment to Asiatic peoples, and' refusal of individuals to pay taxes t e estruction of poverty.\ justice to the exploited natives of or contribute to the community.\ \The League of Nations failed for , Africa, and also take an interest in Dr. Sweetser then str·es::ed the many reasons, the chief of which feeding Europe's starving children, necessity for the a:bolition of racial perhaps was that it was basically will find its way to a desiiable superiority, old-fashioned empire a union to coerce a potential evil peace as a result of such action building, and alliances aimed at doer-and evil doing was defined far more surely than from the other nations. in terms of a challenge to the slaves of all the assorted world re- ThP. director of the Secretariat status quo. Any world cooperation organizers.\ insisted that the new world com- must be along positive lines of Dr. Arthur Sweetser, Director of munity will require an organization world-wide economic cooperation the Secretariat of the League of with a regular annual meeting, a and joint action .for disarmament Nations, and member of Princeton's periodic executive position, a court and the preservation of world Institute of Advance Studies con- of law, Pn economic agency, a labor order.\ tinued the discussion of prospective organization, and a permanent \It is far more rational and prac- peace goals with the statement that staff. \The League of Nations has ticable to seek close regional fed- the \first and most vital need of proven that international organiza- erations or arrangements for co- every individual is to root out the tion is wholly feasible and practic- operation, the United States of Eu war system, lock, stock, and bar- able. Now a similar but much rope for example, rather than a rei.\ otronger and more extensive organ- United States of the World, with \The next peace mw:t restrict the ization will be necessary. Regional central power comparable to that nation-state to its proper setting. groupings may be advisable, but of Washington over our American National sovereignty must cease to the emphasis must be on world or- - ganization.\ Farmers Furnish Food For For·ces; Spend Summer Seasons Sowing Seeds Union ·College has been invited~ ·-·-------- by Mr. Enno Robbing of Tunbridgee, plications students are requested Vermont who was at the colleg Monday to submit applicants for to report to the Student Employ- ;oervice with the Volunteer Landm -::e::n::t::B=u::re::a::u::.====::.::==:=:::;;-, Corps., a .group organized to suppl~ •- farm Ja:bor this summer. The or- ganization has the app1·ova! of Sec- retary of Agriculture, ·Claude R Wickard who has said \Food will win the war and write the peace\ Applicants must be 16 years of · age, healthy, and not subject to im- mediate call under the .Selective Service System. They must; if ac- cepted, ·be prepared to work from May 15 or June 15 to mid-Septem- ber. All assignment fo1· the yea1 1942 will be made to the State of Ve1·mont because this state can .supply the urgently needed foods of milk, ·butter and eggs and because there is an acute labor shortage in that state. Pay and Lodging Under the plan students will be placed on individual farms, where lodging will be provided, and will receive the same pay as a private in the armed forces-$21 monthly. Land Corps directors and field assistants will be on hand as ad- visors, and will act as the respon- sible officers of the volunteers dur- ing the work season. It will be their concern to further the ac·· quaintanceship between the Land Corps. workers and the local peo- ple and to help organize Sunday discussion groups and social gath• erings. UNIO\N MEt\ Be completely well groomed - Get a Haircut - ACME BARBER SHOP Where Service is a Pleasure 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton. St. Schenectady Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6245 BREAD - ROLLS - PASTRY Is your car ready for cooler weather? Are you going to fol- low the team? Get your car in shape at BEEKMAN'S 601 UNION ST. Mobilgas - Mobilubrication Mobiloil lllltresttd itz Schwectady l11ter:~sted i11 UlylON MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Strut Jewel~r 166 JAY STREET Watch a11d ),welry R~pairing· a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS The program is open to both men and women. Men will be engaged in such pursuits as haying and threshing, and the women win un- dertake the lighter jobs such as fruit and vegetable gardening, can- ning and milk room tasks. Anything you need? Call GUERRA'S PHARMACY \WE D.ELIVER\ For furt)ler information and ap- 600 Union St. Simply Phone 6-9419 In colun direc of th aut he marl! hock' umn. 'F.h grC>at clai:n: a g·r great lege ley F rn up tl this i ·bone cross refer and elabo made Du parU est s cross able· than f0rm ins pi: Th that made ber J Few had Ther men Arm' the · vicio· body time! the I in h ~pra1 pre vi tire On team off en go ali oppo: throt A been pus 1 of U urda pern: Foot the dirty good stani Ev ter : are ~ resul ted ' partr Heal reve~ pool. Th ·sedir upon wate same day. De by tl the same not : peop pool letic a w imp!' state <:ura knov are Fo his I iltou back of He tor's Spen frarr billb an o nnw is st COR In state Alph grap of t was Fe E 10!

rid up us- rid ole ~tes at bor za- but or- T SPORTS TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1942 mqe (1J;nntnrl1ittt!it!l --------------------~·-· ----------------~~-------------------------------------------~~------------------~-------------------- llceamen, Hoopmen Phi Ga:mms; The P.uckst~rs R . f S Courtmen Lose . ev1ew o ports T. R _p ·. 1 .( ~ . , . . . . . . . . . o . . . . ag.ers Awards Are Made Notch Sigs Vi,ctories In a letter appearing in another column on this page, Ray Aldrich· directs a criticism to the .tenant of this comer. In this epistle, the· author voices an Gbjeciion tG t'e- mar·ks made with reference to the· hockey team in last Tuesday:s col- umn. By Score of 48-40 'Dutchmen Relinquish Narrow ~Le~d Near Close to Bow in Finale Though in agreemen•t wHh \the Relinquishing its lead with six greater portion of H\ Aldrich minutes of playing time remain- claims that this scribe has \d'one ing, the var::;ity basketball team a great injustice to ene of the· succumbed to the R.P.I. cagers in greatest hockey playet's Union Col- Alumni gymnasium on Saturday lege has ever known: George Dud- evening ·by .a score of 48-40 in one ley Holmes.\ of the inost bittevly contested In fairness to Dud and to clear games in the series. R.P.I. won the Hp the record, it is the opinion of ·first game in this year's series tw0 this tenant that Dud was the back- weeks agG by a .score of 51-30. ·bone of both the hockey and la- The defeat was the seventh in a crosse teams' defense. The lack of: row for the Garnet this year which reference to him was unintentional, has a record of two wins and nine and we take this opportunity to losses for the season. 'rhe R.P.I. elaborate upon the record Dud game was the season's fina'le. made for himself here at Union. The Dutchmen grabbed the lead l'ictu:red abovP is the hockey ~earn which lost all of it's six .games this yl.'ar. Outmanned in every one of its contests, the s!'xtet could not kPPP up the .pace set by theh· numerically superior op- ponPnts. In thP usual ordPr Coach Art Lawrence, Carson Thump- SQn, Fred Wilwff, Brett Smither·s, Jim Pinkston, Brut'e May, Bob Both~cller and B·Obby \PeE'wee\ Panoff. Crou~hing In front is goalie Bruno> Schultz. IN MAIL Awards to mem:bers of the var- sity and freshman basketball and hockey teams were announced yes- terday by .J. Harold Wittner, Di- rector of Athletics. Nine members of the varsity ba~kPtball t~am t·c·- ceive block tJ',;. and ei~ht mem- bers of the hockey team received hUt awards. Waltet· Hochuli was named manager-elect of varsity basketball and Clair Smith and J-udson Zim- mer were both appointed assistant · manager·s-elect. John Douglas was named manager-elect of hockey and Thomas Cullen was ap,pointed assistant manager-elect. Recipients of varsity ba.,;ketball block U's are: Captain Ben J aka- bowski, Bob Ca.rnwright, Ronnie JHacomber, J uhnny Clowc, Lee ::>herman, Seymour Jltleisel, Frank Jones, Ed Allen, Viv Pee1·, Man- ager Bob Forrest, and Walter Hochuli, manager-elect. The aUa award was made to Ted Vinick, Gordon Semerad, and Assistant Managers-elect Judson Zimmer and Clair Smith. Dud was a little fellow, and he in the first few minutes Gf play participated in two of the rough- af.ter being behind 4-2. They held it est sports, namely, hockey and la- . throughout the remainder of the crosse. Despite his size, Dud was .first ha:l.f and kept it for fourteen able ·to fill the shoes of men larger mj.nutes of the second half. In the than he, ·and his magnificent per- .fina:l six minutes •the Garnet tried formances in the nets served as ·desperately to stop the Engineers inspiration to his teammates. , who put on a scol'ing spree, but to To the Sports Editor: ~ · Th0se of · us who did see ·1 Varsity hockey ·recipients of hUt awards are: Bruno Schultz, Fred Wikoff, Bob Panoff, Brett Smith- ers, Jim Pinkston, Bob Noth:acker, Dap.p Will, Bruce May, Manager Al- len Ol'ton and Manager-elect John Douglas. Thomas Cullen, assistant manager-elect, was awarded an aU a. that Arniy game know that he no aval · I read with considerable interest Johnny Clowe and Whi:tey Carn- , - f th c ·d· _ made 55 saves, an astounding num- · ht t th D t h .._ d Tuesdays ,ssue ·O e oncm ren wr1g pu e .u c men a,.,ea . · 1 1 th t t\ 1 ber for any goalie in any league. 9 -4 · th fi t · d b . k' Sis, parhcu ar Y e spor s ar rc e 1n e rs perw y sm tng t'tl d \?\ Few of us know the close calls he two b-askets apiece combined with i 1 e · · . had that Saturday afternoon. a foul shot by Captain Ben Jaka- Though I. do a!?iree wrt.h the There were times when Union had bowski. Two baskets by Captain greater portiOn of 1t, I obJect to men in the penalty box and the Dick Game of the T.rojans put your remar~s at the very outset. Army offensive gathered itself for them back in the game, but Jaka- . ~or. I belleve you have done an the kill, but Dud sto.pped every bowski netted two field goals and mJushce to one ~f the greatest vicious thrust with his stick, his Clowe and Carnwright one each hockey players Umon College has body or his gloved hand. Several to give Union a sa,fe lead. With ever known; namely, George Dud- times he left the goal to kick away ·only several minutes remaining in ley Holmes. the puck; once he caught the puck the first half, the Engineers made Those of us who journeyed to in his upraised glove hand while three baskets in a row to creep West Point last year, and witnessed dprawled on the ice in stopping a up to 23-21. The Dutchmen stopped the performance of that under- previous shot. He played the en- them at this point, and the period manned Union team in their defeat tire game without relief. ended a minute later. of a numerically superior Army On the field of competition Dud's team, were all, I am sure, very teammates were able to take the Second Half Even proud of Union's star goalie. offensive, confident that their The two teams fought on even In this particular game, Dud was goalie could and would stop the terms at the beginning of the sec- credited with fifty-five \saves\. opposition should .they seep ond half, but the Trojans finally Some of his \stops\ appeared to -be through the defense. forged ahead on a shot by Hecht, a * * * A good number of rumors have been spreading around the cam- pus as a result of the cancellation of the meet with Trinity last Sat- urday after their coach refused to permit his team to compete in Foote pool. There is no truth in the allegation that Foote pool is dirty and contaminated, and a good deal of evidence evists to sub- stantiate this statement. Every two weeks samples of wa- ter are taken from the pool and are analyzed at Ellis Hospital. The results of these tests are submit- ted every month to the State De- partment of Health and to the local Health Department. No tests have revealed any contamination in the pool. The water is not clear. There is ·sediment in it, but it has no effect upon the the human system. This water is regular tap water, the same stuff which we drink every day. Despite various measures taken by the Athletic Department to rid the pool of the \dirty\ water, the same condition prevails, but it is not something which should cause people to order the closing of the pool or condemnation of the Ath- letic Department or the college as a whole. Deep and far-reaching implications might be inferred if statements based neither upon ac- ~urate infor-mation nor upon knowledge of the existing situation are made. * * Forrest Evashevski has resigned his post as football coach at Ham- ilton to take over the duties as backfield coach for the University of Pittsburgh. * * Here's one S.G. missed. In Proc- tor's Arcade there is a profile of Spencer Tracey encased in a gl<tss frame. Printed within the glorified billboard is the picture title \Wom- an of the Year.\ Not that it makes anw difference, anyhow. The Corn is strictly Green. ---0•---- CORRECTION In Friday's Concordy it was stated that Kappa Nu defeated Alpha Delts 9-4. This was a typo- graphical error ana not the fault of the writer. The correct score was 39-4. For QUICK Reliable and Excellent Laundering call the PARK LAUNDRY I OS Clinton St. Ph. 4-9011 Cherry and White substitute, 27-26. After Mermentini had mad·e a foul shot good, Vinick tied the score with a field goal, but Hecht put the Engineers ahead again with another two-pointer. Clowe tied the score a second time, and after Ronnie Macomber's foul shot, sank another basket to put Union ahead 33-30. Just when it seemed that the Dutchmen were rolling, Jakabow- ski left the game via the personal foul route, and Clowe was injured and taken out of the game, after he made a basket putting the Gar- net ahead 35-32. After Vinick net- ted another goal, the Trojans start- ed on their spree. Hawkes and Game each sank two field goals and Holmer added another one to make the score 42-38. Clowe came came back into the game and narrowed the Cherry and White margin to two points as he put in another field goal. But the Engi- neers pulled away from the Dutch- men in the t•emaining minutes of the game to win theii· fourth con- secutive victory over the Garnet. Johnny Clowe led the Garnet at- tack with fifteen points followed by Carnwright who made ten markers. Hawkes sank three field goals and seven foul shots for thirteen points to lead the T-ro- jans. Game and Hecht each made twelve points. Coach Ed Donald insti·ucted Marmentini to freeze the ball when there remained only three minutes of playing time, but the Engineers were so hard pressed by the Gar- net defense that they had to play offensive ball. In the process of playing this way, they made three baskets. One of the reasons for the loss may be explained by the fact that the Dutchmen seldom recovered -the ball off the ·backboard after their shots. R.P.I. had two men stationed under their own basket during the entire second half and they picked the ball off the back- board after every stray Union shot. There was some questionable de- cisions by the referees, especially against the Trojans. A number of Union fouls weren't called by the referees, and it seemed that Coach Donald was ready to resign him- self to fate. Union- G F p Clowe, If. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 3 15 Allen, rf. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Jones, If. . ............. 0 0 0 Peer, c. . ............... 0 1 1 Sherman, c. . , .... , . . . . 0 0 0 Jakobowski, rg. . ...... 2 1 5 Vinick, rg .............. 2 0 4 Semerad, rg. . .... , .... 0 0 0 Macomber, Ig .......... 1 3 5 Meisel, lg. . ............ 0 0 0 Totals ............... 15 10 40 R.P.I.- G F p Holmer, rf. . .......... 2 3 7 Lemke, If. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 0 Hecht, rg ............. 6 0 12 Hawks, If ............. 3 7 13 Schaeffer, c ............ 0 0 0 Marmentini, rg. . ...... 2 0 4 Binstock, rg ........... 0 0 0 Game, !g. . .......... , . fl 0 12 Totals ............... 19 10 48 For the FINEST FROSTED Anywhere it's BRANDHORST'S COR. UNION AND GILLESPIE STS. . .........................................•...... ) • i • • • • • • 5 Gazette Press 5 • • • • • • • • • • • • 5 Printing 5 • • • • • • • • • • • • ................................................... impossible, and they were, I feel certain, e. decidedly important fac- tor in undermining the morale of the Army players. Our own play- ers, in turn, must have been ·buoy- ed up by the realization that they could concentrate more than they had ever dreamed of on an offen- sive game. For they kriew that they could risk playing such a game, and that if they could make a few goals themselves they could fall back into defensive play, and thus all help to keep Army from scoring. In other words, they did not have to fear Army attacks as much as they might have had to, and they could risk sending men into Army territory in the hope of scoring. However, we must all remember that any team, particularly an un- dermlllnned one, is only as strong as its weakest player. And neither Dud nor Bob might have perform- ed so admirably without the untir- ing efforts of their fellow mem- bers. The team as a whole won Freshman numeral awards for basketball were made to Walt Barry, Bob Bartlett, Ed Bates, Reggie Carroll, Don Carstens, Floyd Glenn, Henry Hochuli, Don Parsons. Bud Taylor, Armand Versaci, and Canaidatt: Managers- elect Bill Eiseman, Bud Feinsot and Jim M01·ton. Numerals were awarded to the following men on the freshman hockey team: Lou Steege, Hal Fox, Bob W·heeler, Chet Marvin, Bob LaPann, Dick Raymond, Doug Everett, Milt Russumm, Bill Tun- stall, Ralph Van Duzee, Ed Kear- ton, and Candidate Manager:;-elect Bob Winne and John Alden. ----o-~~- Little Dutchmen Trounce Academy that Army contest, and not merely Putting on the pressure in the two players. third quarter to score 18 points, But, 'for the sake of speculation, AI Ciampa's freshman basketball were one to select two players-one squad trounced Albany Academy would have to select two, for each by a score of 43-28 in their last wa.s just as much a player as the game of the season Saturday eve- other-and name them as Union's ning. This win gives them a rec- standouts at West Point, one would ord of four victories and two losses have to chose Dudley Holmes and for the year. Bob Baker. . The teams fought on even terms On the offenstve, Bob was un- in the opening quarter which ended doubtedly the mainstay and spear-~ in a score of 8-8. The little Dutch- hea~ of the attack; but, on the ~e- men moved ahead in the ::;econd pe- fensrve, when the puck was flymg riod, and led 17-14 at half time. through the air, there usually re- They found the mark in the third :nained on_ly Dud. H?lme~ to _stop quarter, however, and put on a 1t. ~nd thts he d1d fifty-five times fine exhibition of ball handling and agamst Army. . . shooting, coupled with a firm de- . It yvould be unfatr to mak: a dts- fense to go ahead 35-22, before the tmct10n between the pla~mg. of period ended. Having built up this Dud and Bo_b at West P.omt, JUst lead, the cubs coasted during the as much as 1t would be to attempt final stanza and Ciampa put in his to detract from the performances second-stringers to finish the game. of the o~he~ Union players. . Bob Bartlett put on a one man A;nd, 1t . 1s unfatr to ment.JOn show in the thiJ·d quarter when Umon s trmmph over Army With- he made three baskets in a row out mentioning along w!th the within two minutes. Intercepting name Bob Baker, the ~ter!Ing p~r- an Academy pass, Bartlett beat formance of the Umon captam, the entire Academy .team down Dudley Holmes, who pl~yed one of the floor as he chalked up one of the greatest games of h1s career. his nine field goals. He was high Very sincerely yours, 1 scorer with 19 points, followed by Ray Aldrich '42 I Reggie Carroll who garnered 16. ~----------------------------------------~------~ I I I I I ICE CREAM I I I I I I One gallon of the very best Ice Cream, l I I I any flavor. Square package, easy to slice. ! I $1.35 Delivered - Simply Phone 6-1248 I ' ' ' ' f Bellevue Dairy ! ' ' ! : ~----------------------------------------------­ ~ Chi Psi defeated the Neutrals 32-25 in an intramural basketball game last Bight. Sigma Phi for- feited to Ka:ppa Nu and Alpha Delta Phi forfeited to Beta Theta Pi i.B other games scheduled. Phi Gamma Delta took the meas- ure of Kappa Sigma 28-15 in its effort to keep within hailing dis- tance of second place in its league, nnd South CoUege pasted Phi Sig- ma Kappa to the tune of 25-12 in games played on Saturday after- noon. Phi Sigma Deita kept its lead ove1· the Phi Gams by swamping Kappa Alpha 32-10 on Friday. ;'>.;orth CollPge administered at 46-7 hPa-ting to Sigma Phi, and AJ.pha Delta Phi beat Sigma Chi in a close game, 23-18. Sigma Chi- G Knapp, rf . . . . . . . . . . . 1 :v.IcDonald, If . . . . . . . . 1 Peterson, c . . . . . . . . . . 3 Dutcher, rg . . . . . . . . . 1 Chase, lg . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Alpha DPlta Phi- G Haymond, rf . . . . . . . . . 1 Comrey, If . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Smith, If . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Fox, C' • • • • • . • • • . . . • • • 3 Wa!lworth, rg . . . . . . . . 2 Rossum. lg . . . . . . . . . . 0 May, lg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Score at half time~6-10. Phi Sigma D!'lta- G Epstein, rf . . . . . . . . . . 6 Goldblatt, If . . . . . . . . . 3 Sommers, c . . . . . . . . . 3 Millman, rg . . . . . . . . . . 0 \Vrubel, rg . . . . . . . . . . 1 ::\1eisel, lg . . . . . . . . . . . 0 K0hn, lg . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 K10nick, lg . . . . . . . . . . 3 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Rappa Alpha- G Timpson, rf . . . . . . . . . . 2 Smithers, If . . . . . . . . . . 1 Beer, c .... , ....... , , 0 Middlemiss, rg . . . . . . . 1 Stiles, rg . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Shortreed, lg . . . . . . . . . 0 Clarke, lg . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Totals .. , . . . . . . . . . . 5 Score at half time-4-0. F 0 0 0 0 0 0 F 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 F 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 F 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sigma Phi- G F Kruesi, W., rf 1 0 (Continuea on Page 4) ---0,---- Intramural Schedule BASKETBALL SCHEDULE p 2 2 6 z 6 18 p 3 6 2 6 4 0 2 23 p 12 6 6 0 2 0 0 6 32 p 4 2 0 2 2 0 0 10 p 2 Wednesday, March 4 '7:30-North College vs. Delta Chi. 8:3D-Sigma Chi vs. Delta Phi. 9:30 Phi Sigma Delta vs. Chi Psi. Friday, March 6 7:30-Delta Chi vs. Kappa Sigma. 8:3Q-Chi Psi vs. South College. 9:30--Neutrals vs. Phi Sigma Delta. Monday, March 9, 7:30 -Semi- finals. Tuesday, March 10, 8:00-Finals. Tuesday, March 3-Basketball 21 finals, beginning at 8:00 (11 finalists). NOTICE-Boxing and wrestling weighing-in begin Tuesday, March 3, continue through Friday, March 6. You owe yourself a bottle If you don•t know and how gloriously good beer can be. Enterprise 9875 PHONES: Albany 4-541 I Troy 44 The Lee-ding Distributors

3 Philomatheans Wi II Represent Union .Saturday TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1942 Story Of Sigma Chi's New Home GENERAL 4 \------------------·------~ ... -- .. ---~--- ... ------.-- .... I I I I 1 SCENE 1 ' . L . t -----------------------------·---~--------~----~ The faculty nied Union students Sunday. The girls were packed into their bus . Wyatt's Messages right after the service and rushed northward. 14 Colleges Will Attend District Eliminations Fred Wyatt's of.fice staff have Wft ask an editorial \Why?\ · been receiving cheery little dicta- On Good Neighbor Policy Elwood Stam '44, Ronald Ep- stPin '44. aml C'hnrlPs CoJIPsano '44, were the three students chosen to represPnt Union in the District eliminations for the national ex- temporaneous speaking contest on the topic, \How Can We Best Im- plement Our Good Neig-,hbor Pol- icy,\ at the Philomathean meet- i-ng last night. The elimina:tions of the contest, which is s·ponsored by the Office of Inter-American Re- lations, will be held in Old Chapel Saturday afterno0n at which time L'nion will act as host to sPveral colleges in central and eastern New York. FourteE'n college's in the district arP eligiblP to entPr teams of three speakers each in -thP tryouts on Saturday. Names of the contestants and the collegE's they represent are to be announced later this week, as rPplies have not yet been received from all the institutions invited to participate. During thP af-ternoon session on Saturday, two 1·ound table discus- sions on the Rio Conference will be held in Old Chapel. with the competing speai{ers divided into two approximately equal groups. Dr. Douglas W. Campbell, assistant professor of Government at Union. who will be director of the District Elimination Conference. will ·pre- side over the sessions and appoint judges to rate the performance of the ir~dividual contestants. A judge will preside over E'ach of the round- table discussions, each of which will last one hour. At the end of that time, each individual contest- ant will be required to speak ex- temporaneously on the discu::>sion topic for a period of tht ee minutes. The judges will select a total of six speakers on the ba.sis of these talks to participate in the evening ses- sian. Ev!'ning Contf'St Scenes from the Sigma Chi fraternity's recent ac- tivitit\s during which they acquired a new chapter houst\ at 730 Union StrPet. Upppr left are Francis M. Lower left, Cor.poration President Clarence M. Greggs signs the necessary documents while the Board of Directors looks on. · TPrry, '23, one of the founders of the chapter and one of tht• men instrumt>-ntal in getting the present houst>, and William R. CoatE's, '42,. leader in the move to sePure the ·casP estatP. Lower right, the directors relax after approval of the> !rase. Left to right, I\.enneth Mcintyre, A. P. J. Boudreau, Lawrence Borst, President Greggs, Mr. TPrr~·. Srvrryn Hasbrouk and Dr. Harold Buckbrr. Upper right is tlJP prest>nt ·Gamma Zeta chapter houst\ at 701 t:nion Street. Basketball !Continued from Page Sanborn, If ........ ' 0 Ranson, B .. c ....... 1 Dodge r~ \ •••••.••• 0. 0 Kt·uesi. F .. lg •••• 0 ••• 1 Yates, lg ............. 0 Totals ••••••••• 0 ••• 3 North Collt>!W- G Tan, rf ............. ' 2 Kessler, If ........... 1 Hines, c ............. 3 GramsP, ro- \' •• 0 •••••• 10 Guerry, lg ........... 5 Totals •• 0 •••••• ' ••• 21 time 7-19. 3l 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 2 0 0 1 7 F p 1 5 0 2 0 6 1 21 2 12 4 46 Spivak U. B. S. Installs New Transmitter (Continued from Page ll Each week he set a new attendance U. B. S. ·put into operation this mark and when the ,band finally week a new transmitter designed vacat~d the bandstand in August to i especially_ for campus broadcast~ng. fulfill ever-mounting demands fot· The Eendmg apparatus was design- personal appearances, the total ed by Gladden Houcl~, '~4 and c:on- number of visitors far exceeded any structed by the statiOns techmcal mark ever recorded for any of his staff, including Paul Yergin, '44, predecessors. ;:>on Bradt, '45, and Frank Czech, During his slay at Glen Island, 45. . Spivak, his trumpet, and his orches- The new tr~nsmttter affo:cts tra and vocalists won a gt·eat fol- U. B. S. greatly tm~roved recept~on lowing through their tadio broad- at all camp~s receivers~ accordmg casts--several times each week on to Myron Mtlls, '42, president. phone records from him. Shirley Young Th.,y u::>ually contain important A word of praise must be ·direct- letters which he has to answer and ed toward Mrs . .Shirley Young for start: \Good Morning, Fred Wyatt the efficient yet pleasant place she greet:; ;you from Winchester, Vir- has made the Student Activities ginia (or wherever he may be).\ Office. . Fred a;lso has a couEin, whose Drop in and become acquainted- last name is AUiger, we understand,· if you haven't already. about to enter the freshman class .. ·New Home Dilemma Sale of his picture has put \Mac\ The Houghtons, dog and all, Yuen in quite a dilemma. moved into their new home on the·. He doesn't know what price to third fle>or of Silliman Hall Satur- charge students for them. If he day. prices the photographs on exhibi- They were assisted by a varied tion in the library so that they will crew which included the Hoopers,, be within the range of the average Mr. Harlow, Ed. HuH, Ken Payne, student, he loses muney, as $1.50 or Bob Kimmey, Wally Morgan and $1.75 apiece barely covers the cost three MormoB missionaries whose of materials and hardly takes into names we didn't get. account the labor necessary. If he Their furniture was moved from prices them so that he .gets a fair 628 Nott St., where they had been return for his labor, they will be living, to Silliman Hall in Ed Hull's way out of the range the average Bantam and Ken Payne's Buick. student can pay. The apartment has five rooms: a Until now \Mac\ has escaped •by large living room, a bed room giving his pictures away and not (done in pink), bathroom, kitchen setting a price. Now wi'th student and combined study and guest demands for copies he finds him- room. The kitchen is streamlined self asking the question, \What for ·quick action. shaH I charge them and be fair to First visitors were Dr. Edward them and myself?\ Ellery, who came for dinner and· Any suggestions by wouldcbe didn't get any because the Hough- economists will be appreciated. tons had but a can of beans and three quarts Coward, who for dinner at house. of milk, and Fran came to invite them the Alpha Delta Phi Whether students will get a chance to see the apartment or not we don't know. Herb may have a weekly tea Friday afternoon before the Vesper Services for student and faculty. Town Meeting In other columns The Concordi- ensis carries a full report on the most intellectually stimulating Town Meeting in a long time. Our only wish was that Dr. Har.: old A. Larrabee could have been at the meeting or better yet at the tea which followed it. It we>uld have been fun to sit back and watch Norman Thomas and Larrabee, two of the most de- structive logicians we know, go to work on each other. The Students \The Thief '00\ Who he is we don't know. But his ;bold audacity coupled with an apparently infinite knowledge of the college and its fraternities have set tr·e whole college· to wondering who he is. Stories have been floating around the campus that he is a student. This conclusion apparently has been arrived at by guessing that no one but a college student would know each house as well as the thief appears to know each frater- nity. Still unsolved (though we have heard at least one person claim to know the answer) is the theft of fraternity flags last fall. C. S. Moody optometrist The six winne1·s of the afternoon tryouts will draw from an as~m·t­ ment of titles the topic on which they must speak extemporaneously at the evening session. This ·will be done at 6:30, an hour and a half before the evening session is to begin. The interval can be used for preparation if the contestants wish. Beginning at eight o'clock, the six speakers will each give a seven-minute e>etemporaneous talk on his topic, Following this he will be quizzed orally by the judges, and then complete his tryout by gtvmg another extemporaneous talk lasting three minutes. Score South at half Collt>g·P- G F p both CBS and Mutual Networks- Robert Hayner, '43, editor-in-chief and through their fast.selling Okeh of The Concordiensis, has take~ Small World records over the program, \From the Ed1- The father of Paul Yergin '44, • Morelli, rf Christofer, If ........ Hamilton, c . . . . . . . . . Daneski, rg ......... Abbruzzese, rg ...... McNulty, rg ......... 0 0 0 1 0 2 5 2 12 1 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 2 Just ·recently Spivak made two tor's Chair\ f~rmerly ha~dled by succeeded Norman Thomas at the important changes in his person- An;tand V. Fetgenbaum, 42 .. H8;Y- last parish Thomas ever held. Up nel. In addition to his vocalist ner.s program presents an ed1tonal till Sunday afternoon Paul had Garry Stevens, he now has a vocal revtew of campus events. never met Norman Thomas. quartet, \The Stardusters\ consist- Skidmore for Dinner Eyes Examined-Glasses FiHed I 15 B'way Phone 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. At the end of the evening ses- sion, the judges will select a team of two, who will represent the Dis- trict in Regional Eliminations to be held later in the year. A final National Conference will result in the selection of the contest win- ner, who will receive a prize in the form of an all-expense trip to South America. W;:tanabe, lg Miller, lg ............ Totals ............. Phi Sign1a Kappa- 0 0 3 1 11 3 G F 0 7 25 p ing of one female and three male Buy Defense Bonds and Stamps The pleasure of entertaining the voices. His \econd change was the ~~k~id~m~o~r~e~C~h~o~i~r 5 a~t~d~i~n~n~e~r~w~a~s~d~e~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ acquisition of Dave Tough at the drums. Tough has long been recog- nized as one of the outstanding men in his pat ticular braci{et of Davison, rf ......... 3 Shepherd. If . .. . .. . . . . 1 O'Neil, c ............ 0 Kamm. rg . . .. . ... . . . 0 \VinniP, lg ........... 2 Totals ............. 6 Score at half time- ,9-10. ---0---- ---- Danton and Silber Named Phi Gamma DPlta- G Flynn, rf 4 Burns. rf . 3 StevPnson. If 3 Heads of Teacher Groups Union's modern language faculty White, c . . . . . . . . 0 numbers among its six members Gresham, rg . . 0 two officers of nation-wide associa- Jones, lg . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 tions of language teachers for the Davis, lg . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 year 1942. Professor George H. Totals . . 13. Danton, Chairman of the Field, i\ H.appa Sigma- G the new president of the American Jones. rf . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Association of Teachers of German. GreinPl', rf 5 and Dr. Gordon R. Silber is a vice- BrPed, If . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 president of the American Associa- \\Taner, c . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 tion of Teachers of Italian. PPa,e, rg . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Both were elected at the annual Gehrman. lg 0 meetings of their respective organ- Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 izations, which were held at Indian- Score at half time· -11-8. a polis in conjunction with the ses- o -- 0 0 0 0 0 0 F 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 2 F 0 0 1 0 2 0 3 6 2 0 0 4 12 musical endeavor . Charlie Spivak's rise to fame closely resembles Glenn Miller's . Before forming their own bands, both were high priced free-lance musicians. Glenn fin:t attained na- p tiona! prominence during his stay at Glen Island Casino and that is 8 where Charlie started his fast 7 climb to fame. After leaving the 6 Casino, Glenn began a theatre tour 0 with the Earle Theatre in Wash- l ington as his first stop, and that 0 theatre is the one in which Spivak 6 also made his stage debut. 28 Since then, Charlie's rise to musi- p cal fame has been sensational. If 1 ~ his past record is any indication, 1 Spivak should make more history this spring--both at the Union g Prom and during his opening en- gagement at the Hotel New Yorker. 0 15 -~ -~-~-o·~~--- ATTENTION, IVlANAGERS! sions of the Modern Language, CALOGIROU INlTIATED December 28-30 last. Becau~e of Alpha Delta Phi announces that Union's accelerated schedule no Demetrius R. Calogirou '44, of members of the field of :Modern i Athens, Greere, was among the Languages were able to go to this 1 1 men who were initiated this last year's meetings. weekend. Commissionet· Ketz has returned fmm his fortnightly visit to New England. Any disputes and ques- tions may be brought to his office for discussion and he will be only too glad to reach an agreement with the contesting parties. CLEANERS AND TAILORS 114 State St. UNITED (Have Your Agent Call Us) SHOE REBUILDERS Phone 4-5676 illlllllll Hlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ - - - - I Schenectady Engraving Co. ~ ~ Engravers for The Coneordi .. sls ~ I 147 Jay St. Phone 4-9002 ~ ~''''''''''''''''IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII n, F. TWIN FARMS DAIRY GRADE A MILK We have our own Guernsey Herd MILK PRODUCED and BOTTLED on the FARM We Deliver Just Call 4-7894 Balltown Rd. For De Luxe Coaches For ••setter Milk'• Try Us CALL G. A. WELCOME &SO.N Our Supply Comes from the Finest Dairy Farms Direct to Our Plant ami Processed in Modern Stainless Steel Equipment 1711 Union St. PHONE 4-9444 YOU'LL LIKE THE FLAVOR LANSING'S DAIRY 215 N. Tenbroeck St., Scotia, N. Y. The taste-good, feel-good refreshment of ice-cold Coca-Cola is everything your&Jhirst could ask for. It's all you want and you want it all. Nothing ever equals the quality and goodness of the real thing. --- BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY Phone 6-7758 51 You trust its quality SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY Vo j fl c ha1 J·a~ Co COl j.JlE a.n1 ser !at u.( '] cT ab• l'<:C An CCH thE Af opi sic wl1 pa: tio SC' wr wr the be• C\ll 1'::.~[ A:· Th II a. SUt OI1 me J ffiE COl fOJ ou i.1 th• thl mi cie th: ('[1· ou fOl I. Ur: WE sh Jo Le M( so fo1 alE l l to sp on a:b in I icl sic on tel an Stl wi stt sa co tri ini w th in: ut an AE be go w at te· ·er be be fie R<

The bus ~shed g for she ce to he y will .50• or cost into If he fair be by not udent him- What to . But an of have ~dent. has that s the rater- have im to of • SWIMMING CANCELLATION EXPLAINED PAGEl tfttStS CAMPUS THIEF NICKS PHI SIGS FOR $30 Vol. LXV. No. 44 l 'l·!ll'' 1 , . ..,. l'tlitorinl 4·0-133 \ .. ,. l'ress 4· !141 The Student Newspaper of Union College SCHENIECTA·DY, N.Y., FRlDAV, MARCH 6, 1942 Price 5c: Disci.pline Plans ·pass At Student .Council Meeting ! Smith Inflicts Weighty Invectir:e~ ! Sixty Volunteers Upon Stu.dentLack Of School Spzret ·( , . , I· t· S \ ·I I : '44 ·; 45 Dan~ce This Evening; F·red Grey And Band To Play Body Accepts Unanimously Referrin9 of Orien~ation '\To Hands of Sophomores A measut e to pHt the pl oblem of fl cshmen orientation back into the handB of the sophomore class was 1•assed unanimoutily by the Student Counci'l Wednesday evening. A committee composed of council !.Jl esident Abraham Dorsman, '42. and all council members .UQW repre- senting the class of 1945 will fot·mu- late plans for the org.J.nization of ti.e new set-up. The mcticn containing the coun- cTs action \Vednesday night came about as a direct t'esult of the rc,commendations made by George Anderson, '43, chairma·n of the committee appointed to investigate the matter c.f fl eshman discipline. After presenting the committee's opinion to the council for discus- sion, Anderson made the motion, wh:ch W.lS quickly seconded and pa3sed without a dissenting voice. Old Syste-m It is likc>ry that tl::e new organiza- tion will take the form of the old S0phcmm e discipline committee', which functioned up until last year, when the council, dissatisfied with the way in which the problem had been hand:ed by the class of 1943 C')mmittee. established the Fresh- man Orientation Committee, with A:odrew Reilly, '42. as chairman. The sophomore class of this year !.as found a good deal of fault with such a program, and with this or•inion the council agreed unani- mously. In moving for the re-establish- rr.ent of the question of freshmen cc-nduct within the domain of the rophomm e class, Anderson pointed out that one of the main difficulties L1 the crganiza:tion as set up by the class of 1943 entailed the fact that the Sophomore Discipline Com_ mittee of that year was not suffi- ciently Iepresentative of the class, that it did not include members of c>ach fraternity, a fact, he pointed out, that should be considered in formulating the new program. -- -~--0•---- I. 0. C. A. Weekend Anyone interested in attending Union's Intercollegiate Outing Club week-end of March 13, 14, and 15 should notify either Rex Moon, John Dutcher, John Bass, or Gerald Leubner befme Monday noon, March 9. Early notice is necessary so that arrangements may be made for the banquet and square dance, Outstanding fur the complete~--· . Onlp e e pecla c;mdor expres,;cd was the Wednes- F• A\d ( tlay . chapel Bpeech .deli\:ered by s~ph-fr~sh rivalry; for example, .t~~ . a.rst 'I . o.u•rse Euwm c. Sm 1 th, '44, m his all-out cane 1 ush, whet e a mere thn t:\r , , plea fot· pffectivc> school spirit. sophommes showed up to be 1 \lf said, in patt: creamed by 150 freshmen. Very I \Tcday I'm goirg to slap yam sPl~·:Jm do the sop,wmore:; ever win :uces-Hard! I don't like yeur a field day. attitudes! Most 0f you haven't \It's not hard to tell what later 55 Sh.11der~~s. 5 ~aculty Members Receive Award5 Bn Recognition of Work got any guts- frankly you stionlt! happens to the fteshmen's spirit. Fifty-five student~ and five mem- \Just what do I mean? 0. K. - H's iH'lt hm·d to tell why they be- ber·s of the Faculty have completed How does the onler r.un when it come complacent and indifferent a specia·l first-aid course for which corr.es to Bpirit ~Union fi·rst, fra- by the time they're sophomores. H's they volunteered two months ago, tel nity sec;md \elf last? Ccr- bccau\e t·hey see you upper-class- and have been a warded Red Cross ta!nly, of ccurse! Yeah! Mo·rP men, either sitting arcmnd on your certificates in recognition of theit· liltely it's self first, self second, self dulfs in the houBe aa afternoon work. last. That's what I mean. To::> 01 sper!ding your time at the flicks The student~. most of whom ate many cf us think of this as merely ot· at Tony's ... The other classes registered in the pre-medical schco:, net as Union College. Why are spiritiess and self-centered- why course. together with the five lac- bother with the school? You're should they bP different. Tf the big ulty men, J·egistered for first-aid paying your gcod mor,ey to it, so b8ys do something, the freshmen training early in January, in re- who cares? will do it too If they say its the sponse to a call from the local Nuts!! thing to be BUpct ior and smug, Civilian Defen::oe Council fot· \N t 1 c 1 R b th' 0. K.~the big big boys know what stretcher beare1s and othet a!'des u s. · · emem et 18 • C'Very tne score is. Follow them! yea1· a small group of boys consti- to serve the Casualty Station lo- tute our athletic squads. They \Again- nuts ! ! cated in the college gymnasium . t•rpeat all year around. The field \I wish you guys up there on thP Voluntary instructors who con- b rathe1· small anyway . . . but shelf would ·be a little different ducted the first-aid classes were there are some who don't play, who from my class, a little different Dr. M. A. Donovan, and Dr. E. A. could play~who sh0uld play. ftom the class before mine, and Suss, of Schenectady, and James \You were 0. K. when you first the cbsses before us. When next rhomas, of Scotia. Pt·ofesEor Leon- came to school, as freshmen. Then fa'! comes around, let's see you ard B. Clark, adviser to pre-medical the college seemed to mean some- take care of the class of '46. don't students at Union, was in general thing to you. More of you were let the class of '46 take care of you cha1ge of the course. out for sports. Mote of you took t!'le way you took cal e of my class. Red Cross certificates wrre pre- part in the college functions and Let's ··ee you play football, and sented to the following: Leonard B. act:vities. As freshmen you prac-1 play basketball, and play baseball Clark, S. G. Cotzin, Herbert n. ticaily always show more guts and • with more fight and drive and en- Houghton, Jr., Wilford H. Ketz and rrH:·re spilit than any of the other 1 t~usia3m than the other classes do. Frederick C. Schmidt of the faculty. classes-sometimes more than all Lc>t's see you-not just stand behind Richard M. Adams, 'H, Alexander· the othe1· classes com·bined. : your school and her teams~but Arony, '42, Robert Boyar, '4fi, ¥'al- \\VitrPES last fall's traditional r;et buck of them and teally push.\ ter D. Bleed, '43, Robe1t J. Brock- ---------~----·--·- ----------- ·--- -·- -· hul'st, '45, Emile J. Brunet, '43, 'Th L w ld' 'II'! I M elL. Rocco Calundruccio, '45, Charles e ost o:r I rOCU ty en nosen Collesano, '44. Carlo Consolazio, '45, 'l'l' IF: ...11 .II.\ G Sam Coppola, '43, William H. Eger, Presented M,onday I o o r;f&1JUCC8TIOI1 roup '45, Ralph Epstein, '45, Herbert E. Gade, '43, M. Leonard Genova, '45, M . .r. D I , N I Appointment of four members of Paul Glick;,man, .4 5. ev;e OT oy e s ove , h f It t th 1 d · e ucu Y o e new y-create Seymour Glucroft, '45, Edward J. Canes dian Picture Given I Student-F:1culty Conference com- Gramse, '43, Sherwood W. Greiner, By Geology De\\Clrtment I mittee was made by President Fox '44, L. Miller Harris, '45, Frank r following a meeting of the Fac- Hassel'bacher, '42, Sterling H. Hunt- The Department of Geology is ulty Committee on Education. Ap- ington, '44, Marvin Isenberg, '45, presenting two silent films of un- pointed at Tuesday's meeting were Boris R. Kaufman, '45, Robert c. usual interest Monday, March 9 in one faculty member from each of Kessler, '45, Robert B. Kimmey, '44, Old Chapel at 8:00. The titles are the four academic divisions of the Robert M. Kahn, '43, William La- \The Lost VVorld\ and \Hunting college, who will act as a discus- Battaglia, '42, Leon Levine, '43. Dinosam s in Alberta, Canada.\ sian g1·oup with the nine students Franklin S. McKeever, '44, Paul Casting Of Irish Comedy Scheduled I ~mptravements in Stage 1o Suit Synge's Play Have Been Completed Unde1· the direction of Abraham Baka.J '42, Stage Manager the Mountebank's theatt·e has witness- ed a widening of the stage by a loot and a half on each side and a lowering of the top of the stage by one foot and one half in ot·der to have it appear wider and nut·l ower than usual. The improvements have been accomplished in preparation fat• the new Mountebank's .perform- ance of John :\1illington Synge's \The Playboy of the Wester·n World.\ Casting for the second production of the year ha\ been sch-eduled for tomorrow. Sunday and Monday of next week. rresident Harold Hend- rickson announces. Saturda:>o 's tr:\r·- outs are primarily for the casting <Jt those other than from the under- graduate body while Sunday and .>'fond 'Y will be devoted to the hear- ing and selection of the student parts. The Irish classic concerns itself with I' naive peasant Christopher Mahon who reaches social pre-em- inence by hitting his father over the head with a spade. He becomes a lover and drinker after the inci- dent with hiB \da\ who later proves to be alive. The other male char- acters of the drama are in harmony with the two mentioned. A description of the parts avail- able to the students and an account of the general outline of the play was printed in the February 27 1ssue of The Concordiensis. --~---0---- --- Bill for Doubling State Scholarship Termed Unfeasible Professor Smith described the , appo:nted to the committee last W. Myers, '44, Rexford G. Moon, '44, motion pictures as follows. \The I wee!' by Student Body President Glenn M. Morris, '44, J. Wallace first one is 'The Lost World,' which Abralbm Dorsman. Morgan, '44. All3n S. Orton, '42, is the screen version of one of Sir Professo1· David S. Morse, from Vincent S. Palladino, 'H, Kenneth Arthur Conan Doyle's novels. The Division III, was named \spokes- A. Payne, '45, Victor E. Peer, '44, story is the adventures of Profes- rr:an·· of the faculty group, while Melvin Pomeranz, '45, Anthony D. insufficient Provisions sors Challenger and Summertee from Divisions I, II, and IV, were Preuss, '44, Lewis B. PulM:, '45, Rob- Make Channe Impossible• who go to discover an unknown appointed Professor Harold W. ert Schamberger, '45. -:> • plateau in South America on Blodgett. Professor Harold A. Lar- Fred M. Siegel, '43, Kenneth $50 Each Term Accepted which at·e still living· large and ter- rabee, and Professor Warren C. Snyder, '44, Clifford Tepper. '44., . . . rible reptiles. These reptiles are Taylor. Se:rmour Thickman, '44, Philip v. Be~ause of msuffiCJent funds to supposed to have been long since This group, which will meet for R. Thomson, '43, William M. Thorn- p: ov1de for the necessary appro- extinct. The reproduction of these the first time with the student son, '44, R. B. Tolge, '43, Robert w. priation, the bill in the New York animals is said by scientists to be )o:rOUIJ sometime next week, will Trevithick, '45. Armand D. Versaci, State Le~islation to double State remarkable for their accuracy and help, with the student committee, '45, Norman Vivian, '44, John A. ,;cholarsh1ps has been termed \no true to life appearance. <o act as intermediat y between Vosburgh, '45, Robert F. Winne, '45, l:Jnger feasible\ by the bill's chief All are invited to these two in- students and faculty on ali mutual IC!larence E. Woodwaz d '42 Norman proponent, Assemblyman Wheeler also for tt·ansportatien. teresting and educational movies. 1 problems. N. Wrubel, '43. ' ' Milmoe, Chait·man o.f the Commit- ------- tee fat Public Instruction. Outlook Ahead Is Encouraging Says Frederic Wyatt On Completing Tour Througlt Mid- Western Schools Milmoe made the statement dur· ing an interview with reporters ft om the \State College News,\ held :ast week. \However the assemblyman said, \it is generally accepted that there will be a reapportionment of Eveiy undergraduate may expect~----~ - --·- scholarships in the case of those to receive information .before Mr. Wyatt ursed that ~tudents I The Admissions Director, who tives fm· the college, Mr. Wyatt students who complete three terms spring vacation concerning. at 1 .e.~st who are not plan1;1ing to go home wrote from Indianapo.Jis, is now said, adding that \the outlook is in one year instead of the usual one man w_ho ha~ made mqUJues during the vacation notify his of- lln his way back to the campus and, encouraging.\ two terms. These students will ~bout en~enng u.mon, accordmg to lice as soon as possible. When this he said, is \looking forward to The meeting of the County Day receive $50 per term.\ •Billies in the Nig;ht• Leads Poll Winners As •Hit Parade\ Tune Union College dances in.formally tumon·ow night at the Freshman- Sophomore dance to the music of F1 ed Gt ay and his orchestra, who will ff'ature the song-s chosen by the poll taken in Chapel Wednes- day. The results of this poll ac- claim \Blues In The Night\ the pcpular favorite by fat·. It received 223 poin.ts. while the second rank- ing tune, \Moonlight Cocktail,\ re- CPived 159 points. Here a1·e the fil st ten selections in order of :>tudent choice: \Blues In. The Night,\ \.Moon- :ight Cocktail,\ \Deep In The Heart OJ Texas,\ \A String Of Pearls,\ \The White Cliffs Of Dover,\ \The Snrine Of Cecelia,\ \I Don't Want To Walk Without You,\ \Star Dust,\ \'Tis Autumn,\ and \This Is No Laughing Matter,\ The poll pt·oved a field day for humorists, who voted for such neat little things as Hitler's national anthem, \Deutchland Uber Alles\ r.nd three selections from \J. S. Bach, class of 1600.\ The prize selection howeve1, was \Who Hit Annie In The Fanny With a Flounder.\ The chairman of the decorations c0mmittee said last night that an endeavor was being made this year t0 improve upon the decorations of past informal dances a:t Union. The committee plans to place accent on a '\44-'45\ theme. Decorations Difficult The decorations committee, how- ever, is not without its difficulties. Alumni Gym, where the dance will be held, •is in practically constant use with the schedule of baseball practices, freshman physical edu- cation classes, and .intramural sports. This means that the great- er part of the work will have to be done after 5:00 p.m. on Satur- day. Considering this condition 1.nd the small size of the commit- tee, Herbert Adams '45 stated that help will 'De needed. Any freshmen and sophomores who have f1·ee time between 5:00 and 6:00 and a desire to see their dance ·.1 complete success can help in many ways if they will come to the gym. From the conversations among students around the campus, one can see that, in all probability, U.e dance will be well attended. ::-rum- erous and frequent praises of l•'red Clt·ay's danceable music testify that he will do his part to make the dance a thoroughly enjoyable af- fair for all. ----0---- 5 Colleges Debate Here on Saturday fisher of Philomatheans Announces Eliminations On Inter-American Topic mforn:atwn recetved from Freder- is done the Admissions Office will Union again with keen anxiety.\ 'School Headmasters Association Assemblyman Milmoe had intro- ick A. Wyatt, Director of Admis- refer their cards to other men from Since Mr. Wyatt left Toledo, held last June has been. of greatPst duced a bill to the State Assembly Representatives• of five colleges sions. Students will be a~lted to call the same district. Men who a1 e which was about the ha:fway point help, the 1etter states. in January providing that all hold- will be guests of the collegf' on on these m:n ~ 0 determme the ex- planning to visit or work away in his journey, he has been doing The Director of Admissions has ers of State Scholarships would re- Saturday, when they will compete t nt Of thell . mterest and answer · $100 t · d f in the District eoJiminations for e . from home during the vacation what he termed \r Pal pioneering.\ been entertained at a good many cerve per semes er mstea o any q uestwns they may have H' h · the 1 $50 Th b'll t the national extemporaneous speak- . were requested to notify Mr. Wy- JS upproac es m Milwaukee, the alumni homes, he said, and, in view usua · e I was o Th · h ch · T · c· · .. ra vP tak ff t J 1 f ing contest on the Good Neighbor e man concernmg w om ea att s ofti.ce of their probable loca- \ wm Jties, and St. Louis are of his \nomad\ life, has appre- en e ec on une o - 11 · · f t' ,_ · · t' · Policy, sponsored by the Office of student Wl receive m orma ton tion, so that they might be assigned t\e 1mtial ones made by the college. ciated his visits deeplv. In In- 111 s year. b f h f th 1 . \' Inter-American Relations, it has will be a su - res man rom e sub-fresshmen to visit in that at,ea. 1 · He said that he made a number of dianapolis, Ben Turner and his wife ~ -- o--~- student's home district, Mr. Wyatt The Admissions Director urged good contacts in each place. were his hosts, he said. been announced by Edgar Fisher, T a..; f St \k A • president of the Philomathean So- said. that students visit the sub-fresh- Many of the college counsellors ''My hopes are high for lacrosse nue fl es ga1n•. h ciety, which will also enter a team This s:,stem of undergraduate men at their homes wherever pas- il' t at di·strict want to be able to this spt•ing,\ M1. Wyatt wrote. H\ ~ffi • D in the event. contact with sub-freshmen was sible. He also suggested visits to recommend a college for one thing, \With the class of '·'5 to augment BS u;; Clency reps tried with con;,iderable success dur- pzeparatory and high schools, most Mr. Wyatt remarked. For exam- the formidable squad we already Tl~e list of f t 't houses Colgate University will be rep- ing the Christma.s holidays, Mr. of which will be in session at that ple, these men look to Chicago for have, WP may find ourselves with who have fallen v~~ti~n~; the cun- resented by a single contestant, Wyatt's Jetter pointed out. As was time. .culture, Purdue for Engineel'ing, a powerhouse.\ Robert M. Brandt. ning and tricker\ of some unknown Ha 'It c 11 'II d u· the case at that time, cards ·bear- \A talk with the principal or Notre Dame and Minnesota for \A good many mid-western J mt on ° ege WI sen •uii· I C th!ef w..Js supplemented last nig·ht ton Kay! D Id W tk' d ing the information will ·be distrib- guidance teacher at a seh?ol is ~n football, andk incinnati and An- schools are watching three-yea 1· or early this morning when mem- e, ana a ms an uted either through the fraternities excellent way to get pertment m- tioch for wor opportunities. Since plans with some skepticism,\ Mr. b William Minor. t D 'I f t' b t b f h .. M l' . h' th d t f ur CIS uf the Phi Sigma Kappa The delegation from R.P.I. 'II and dormitory groups or a a a1 y orma !On a ou su - res men, r •nton com mes ' e a van ages o vvyatt said. \They are worrying reuse awoke to find about $ 30 ·n WI Assembly program. The cards will Wyatt said. He pointed out that all, Mr. Wyatt said, these men were a.bout such elements as maturity, cash missing. 1 include John Fra.ndsen, Heinz be handed out early next week. some of ·the ·boys will be able to in general anxious to send someone fma~cP, health, both mental and If the same thief who h b Eisenberg and John Arzube. \We hope the response will be as visit .the campus on Sub-Freshman here after hearing a dcllcription of ~hyswal, , academic. achi:vement,! in activity on the campus ~~r ~~~ Russell Sage College has entered good as it was last time,\ Mr. Week-end. Formal invitations to the college. a?d genet. a! absorptiOn of mforma-1 past few weeks was the Phi Sigs' ~is~~~m M~·y th~~~za:e~~ are the Wyatt said. this event have already been made Alumni are turning· out for the t1 1 ~anm .~urmg an accelerated pr 0 . · vi,;itor last night, he i~ apparently Kathaleen Perkins and Gaynor, Each candidate's year of gradu- available 1by the admissions office. meetings which he visits in increas- g A· . th 1 • losing- some of his cunning. It was Susanne ation, school, the course he is in- In a later letter to The Con-I ing numbers, Mr. Wyatt said. De- mong e othe 1· schoo's whose . Reynolds. terested in at Union, and the gen- cordiensis, Mr. Wyatt reported on t1 oit, his third visit, brought the rPpresentatives are cov~ring I P?~nted ~ut that th~d pr~;vler last Skidmore College will send a del- era! impression he creates should the latter pottion of his current I largest attendance yet. The at- similar territory at this time ar~' ~~';ht h mtssed ·bf 0 ~ 81 el: Y. more egation, but has not yet named its be noted on the cards, which should trip through the middle west. His tendance at Chicago was almost Bt·own, Colgate, Williams, Prince-· twi~e t~ }Vas a ~ 0 ge • fat abo.ut I offical repzesentatives. be returned to the Admissions Of- description of the first half of the l.double that of last February. I ton, Amherst. Hamilton, Havetford I able in \~:;:' 0 ~t~PI~aken was avail- The Union College team, pt·e- fice immediately after the Spring t(Jur was reported in the February I A number of additional alumni 1 and Rochester, as well as many .. · house. The thief als~·~~~: 0 ~~ ~~~ vioudsly announced, will include El- Recess. 2•lth issue of this newspaper. are signing up as field representa- 1 mid-western colleges. woo Starn '44, Ronald Epstein 'H, lar from the Sigma Chis. and Charles Collesano '44.

FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1942 .\h·tnlll r uf thl' :\:-~oc!atl·d Cttllt:gi:ttP iJJe~:-. cllld dis~ tlliJUt\r u1 l'llc Culk~tate I Hgt·;-.t 1-:epll':-.t..·Ht~d fPI ~ational .\tlvt..·rtl:--lll.g' by >:at H'llid .\d\'t..·l tt~iug :-;t'l \- t,·~._·, lHl'., L\111leg~: Publt ... h- r< .. ffinur ur ~(t~:-~.:r ilirn!iiE 1-:,Jit<~li:tl Utfi<'<', Sillimau llalt.t L'Hlolt Culh•gE:_ 1 • l'uil- Lt..•at!ull Uflin--, 'l'ht> Ua.- .:t:l're Ptu··:-, 3:J~l :-:ta-te ~l. F:ittt.·n·d 111 thl· ~l',lteliL'~­ t.tdY Pv~t Ul1lt'l' a.:-- :-;vt'- ttlu( Cla~:-- }latl ~\·laltL'l'. ~ttlJ::;cnptioll ~l· <t n1IJY; :;;3 ~' t.:ar: ttl'liVC..'ll'tl ~tii.Y\\ llPre 111 tltt· Lllitt-d :-;ral'l·~. ·[',Dunning, Baitseli 1 Will Speak Sunday At Town Meeting bt.'., :llo-1~ ..... t.J b:'\A~;~W l'T!'- l\~t•prt:Sl'illHLVt: -i~U ~'l':n'll:--oll .\Vt:llUl', ~t:\\ Yon~ l:lty ··,1 C.un.1 Peu.1 P.nul~ AJS.1:'' .H.\:>; .\<!;I.\ 1; BtU llll ltuht'l'l n. nu~ ....... . .l1dt-a t•!J~tlull rluu-.l .. ·l-7!1~~- ............................ Etl.itor-iu-('hit~t· ,J:lt..,tiu Pt•t·hl't!iu .... .. K:tppa .\u l'lou::--t 1-7:;::1 ............•............ nu ... itu.•-,.., )lanu~Pt' (11UII~'t'l' Tl'.i}IJI 0 •••••••••• l'hl :-:tgm:t Kapp:t llun:-t 1-Jt;:!l;, ....................... :\lnna.g·iuA· EdHol' H.u·,,., ,J. l·hhhntu• ..... . \\ ulh·l: ;1. ..,,·hul/. .... . ....... K~qq,a .'iu lluU:--t -·t-7.~:.:1 ................................ :O,liOL'h I::tlitol' 1 :-:,o•Ht'tl ~~·•·toOl!, .:\t!J{il l'·••ill~gt· t.~tltltJtJ,,,,,. ,, ...•.. , ••...•• l·t•it·(tHt• 1-:tliltH !'\1''\llltlUr Tl•h-linm·II .............. . ,,;J'IIIUll w·. r•ux ..... 1'!11 :--;H.:tna 1 1 vlta JJ,.u .... ,. •i-117ti~ .....•..........•..••.. ('hit•t' ('UIJY Etlitol' ...•. ;--\ 1:.:.111a ·l'hi I ~_l.t_n ___ l:~li'-1:; 1 .... , ..........••........ -Photog-ru.p_ltit' __ l~:_tlit-o_.r to)J~ Boartl I-~·,·tJ.tltl_ t'••t_tl~. :--.r.ttdt·~ _tilttll .. \ll_wtt (\Jo!dt 1.... t it·orgt· .\I ttltth·tll'l:--.... .\I lid t :--attltolllt', :\-> ;\.! 1 • :-- 1 1. .l.t•t•th t;.,,ld:--lt•!Jt, ~~~~~ :-- h..Jlll'Jil~tlo, :-'!Ia~ :-;h-111~ 1 ,, 1 , t • .l~>tt: }l;t-.tll ••• J.,~, 1d1 li.llll.l!ll., Tll.•tlla:-- li·P!llllat~. }'ltoto;naplti(' Bourcl L•·\ll .Lu t~b .... PII, Jl'Jttllll· \\'l'lll- :-'t J, IIU,illl'\ \'1.<>11 'tld\illt- ·'·l.t:\lll t':dllll'l', I clitor .. ...... ,John ---------~---- -------- -- THE NEW COMMITTEE The appointment of the four faculty mem- uers of the Student-Faculty Conference Com- mittee, the story of which is cal'l'ied on the fl·ont page of today'::; Concurdiensis, in all probability, will not attract much attention within Cnion's family circle. It is, it~ our opinion, o11.e of the steps, however, most im- pmtant in improving life at Union, and in particular, in improving t•elations between student and administration. \\'e need not go fm· in a search for prob- lems which may well be mitigated by the work of the new committee, fm· boundless are the benefits which may come as a direct result of the work of the new committee. Whenever students and administration have the opportunit~· to discuss problems about which, heretofore, only spasmodic \griping-\ on both sides has been the custom, benefits are more than likely to accrue. Such matters as the much-maligned \cut-system\, inaug- urated this fall, about which so much dis- content has been expressed by both students and faculty alike, are matters which may very well come under the surveillance of the new committee. We do not pl'edict that any- thing will be done about the cut-system, but use it merely as an example of the type or thing which will be brought more into the light of mutual exchange of ideas and opin- ions. The committee, created without legislative power, may appear as nothing more than a glorified form of \bull session\ to many, and it may develop into just that. That, in itself. is possibly the immediate purpose of the org·anization. To those who would look bevond the immediate future, however, the fo~mding of such a group i;s pt·olmbl~· the most impol'tant step taken by the college in recent years aloag the lines of student repre- sentation in the channels of administrative action. It is a step which, in reality, lies at the roots of the whole problem of student gTievance over action taken by the college in anY number of fields. It is the basic step wl~k11 should have been taken long ago, and which would have saved both the administra- tion and the student body a good numbe1· of difficulties and misunderstanding-s. In taking this all-important step, so preg- nant with possHJilities. tTnion once again is taking· the lead in contemporary college life. \\'e do not know of more than a very few American college::; today where such a sys- tem as this is in effect. The future of the committee lies now in the hands of the men who are included in its membership. Theirs is the task of setting all-important precedents, of detennining just how valuable the new set-up can be. Paetic- ulal'ly does this 1·esponsibility fall upon the nine men who have been appointed from the Student Bod~·. They can make the new Con- ference Committee or they can break it. lt is all-important to the future of Cnion Col- lege as a truly der:nocratic institution, and, at the same time, to the general well-being of the college for some time to come, that they do a good .i o\,J. REACTION It is always intere~ting to note lw\Y \YH\'e~ of reaction flow back and forth in legislative groups, and this is particularly true, we think, in the case of college Student Councils. Take the l'ecent action of ou1· own Coun•il, for instance, in regm·ct to the action taken by that body, putting the whole question of freshman orientation bark in the hands of the sophomore class. The v<:hole affair goes back to about a year ago this time, when the Council. d.issatisfied with the way the situation had been handled by the 19-!3 Discipline Committee. imme- diately went into a fe\'el' of activit~·. all rli- l\ected toward correcting· the state of affairs. With a mind that was characteristicall~· reac- tionary, the Council, in its haste to \do some- thing about it\ took the powe1· of freshman discipline away from the sophomores, the class where such power logically and tradi- tionally belongs, and set up a committee com- posed of upperclassmen as well as sopho- mol'es, which was headed by a senior. Thus the trend of reaction placed the whole re- sponsibility of class rivalry in the hands of upperclassmen who, as a normal thing, m·e not generally enthusiastic or even intel'ested in such matters. Chairman Reilly did as good a job as he could, and is to be commended for his efforts in expel'imenting with a sys- tem that had a basic fault that was \veil-nigh impossiule to overcome. \Ye feel that it should be stressed that the Freshman Orien- tation Committee was not abolished tht'ough any del'e!iction on the Reilly',; part, but only because the Council t'ealized that the s~·,stem it set up a ~·ear ago was impractical. Heilly was probably in a better position than an~·­ one else to realize this, and he quicklr ap- proved of the chang-e. Just as the change of a year ago failed dis- mally to improve the situation, it should be llaorlte rs.,yce is Author IF'or $i~e@kiiuJ of Books oo!'llg~rl' i11 Old Chapel A college English teacher who hu.~ tuTned no\'elist will ,be WGY's author-guest on the Spealting of Books program in Old Chapel, Fri- day, March 6, at 7:30 p. m. The bo~k ancer discussion will be a his- tol'ical novel, \The Pelilous Night,\ which is written a>bout .the Hudson River, pa-rticularly in the New- burgh section in Revolutionary days. The author of \The Perilous Night\ is Burke Boyce, a native of St. Louis and a graduate of Hal- vard where he taught English for two years. For eight years he was Head of the Dramatic Sc!ipt De- partment of the National Broad- casting Company. His poetry has appeared in the New Yorlter and hi;; .;to!'ies have found publication in many other magazines. During the World War Boyce was an ordi- nal'y seaman on a freighter plying between New Yo1·k and Bordeaux. In 192·1 he was a member of the UnHed States Olympic fencing team. The following 1 eviPvvers will con- front :\ir. Boyce on the Spealting of Books pr·og-ram and endeavor to discover unpubtis•hed fact;; of inter- est regarding the inspiration for the nuvel: WiHiam H. Carr. curator of Trailside :\fuseum. Beal' :\foun- tain; Edith Walton, book reviewer of the New York Herald Tribune and Granville Hicks .writer. Organ Rt\cital :\1usic by Geo·rge Frederick Han- t{Pl will be the feature of the pro- gJ·am of the organ recital by Dr. EtrneJ· A. Tidmarsh in Memorial Chapel this Sunday afternoon at 4 p. m. Dr. Tidma1sh will be a~sisted by David K. Blake, Oboeist, and the college choir. The program fololws: I. Concerto in C Minor Maesboso Allegr·o Minuetto DENTISTRY ThP field of dentistry totlay of- fe-rs to <'olleg~ R-tudent~ nn attn•t•- tiYB eareer. It prn\'icle~ a wnrt.hy intell•••·tuar challeng•·· a lifP of pl-·•- feHsint·al :-:ez vice with 8ati~fac·tot·y incomP, anU au opportutlity for rE>- sean·h ,uHl teaching· in thi~ cli\'i:-:ion of mettiea.l fH'it-'lll'e and ai~t. The eniver:\ity of PennsyiYa.nia hR~ prepared monl tha.n ~ix thous~ aucl gra.<I·ua,tes ·tvho are O{'cupying pn!'-'litinns 11f importatwe in ihEl- pro~ fe:-<\H·i(Jll th1\11U~hout the world. Its I'Olll'~P of in:-:trllctiotl is Of thl' high- l•St onlt>r. Anyrnw intere!'tf>tl in this J•r.,fr·,- ~ion a~ a lifP \\'OI'l{ i~ inYJtl·ll tn apr1I~· f11r furtlwr in format iou to Thp, ll~·atl of the Sf'hf)U} of I1Htth .. trr ·lOth Philnclelphia, Pa. EDITORIAL 2 .-----------------------------------------------. I I I How The Other Half Lives I I I ! ________________________________________________ _~ . ~O~!ilfo~ I 1\fu~i~l~.?sf~e~io~~!~?tudents Clmtol~,. N. 'h. E~tenn~ frrsh- who wish to relax b1·iefly fl·om men desH·mg to begm the1r eollege academic r esponsiblllties and war zourse HJ t•s to finish befme 1·each- tension will ·be conducted each noon ing draft age will be admitted to at Cooper· Union, beginning Man- Hamilton Cot!ege's summer session, day, March 2, under the auspices June 29. President William H Cow- of the Cooper Union Library, Har- ley announced today. old Lancour, head librarian, an- Announ~ement came following nounces. The public also may at- action by tl·ustees extending to lirs·t lend the mu.,icales, made possible year students summer study privi- by a purchase of 800 classical re- tegcs already announced as avail- cm·dings and an electric phono- able to sophomore~. junim·s. 'lnd graph with the cooperati0n of the seniors. Carnegie Corporation of New York. -------------~--~---~·--- MAI{E .. UP TESTS Monday, Ma!'Ch V, 1:80-2:30 P. M. Biology 6 .............. Prof. Clark Biology Lrxboratory, room. 203 Biology 13 ............. Prof. Dale Biology La•boratory, room 203 Chemist1·y 1 . . . . . . . . . . . D1·. Cotzin Chern. Laboratory, room 201 Chemistry 1 ........... Prof. Stanford Chern. Laboratory, room 201 Chemistry 1 . . . . . . . . . . . Prof. Schmidt Chern. Laboratory, room 201 Chemistry 2 ..........• Mr. Naughton Chern. Laboratory, room 201 Chemistry 3 Dr. Cotzin Chern. Laboratory, room 201 Chemistry 3 ........... Prof. Schmidt Chern. Laboratory, room 201 Chemistry 12 .......... Prof. Schmidt Chem. Laboratory, room 201 Chemistry 22 .......... Prof. Stanford Chern. Laboratory, room 201 Chemistry 31 .......... Prof. Hm'd Chern. Laboratory, room 201 English 22 ............ Prof. Weeks Bailey Hall, room 303 Geology 1 ............. Prof. Smith Geology Laboratory, room 24 Mathematics 1 ........ Prof. Fox Civil Engineering Bldg., 208 Mathematics 1 ........ Prof. Male ..... Civil Engineering Bldg., 208 Mathematic>' 2 1 Special l P1 of. Ma!P Civil Engineering Bldg., 208 ~!athE>matics 2 Prof. Burkett Civil Engineering Bldg., 208 Mathematics 2 . . . . . . . . Prof. Fa nell Civil Engineering Bldg., 208 M:athematics 11 Prof. Fox Civil Engineering Bldg., 208 Mathematics 12 ....... P1·of. Faneil Civil Engineering Bldg., 208 Mathematics 31 ....... Prof. Snyder Civil Engineering Bldg., 208 Mechanics 1 Sup h. l . . . . Prof. Say1·e Civil Engineering Bldg., 107 Mechanics 1 Soph.l ..... Mr. Harlow Civil Engineering Bldg., 108 Mechanics 1 Junio1 l ... Prof. Sayre Civil Engineering Bldg., 107 Social Studies 1 P1·of. Doty Bailey Halt, room 210 Social Studies 1 ....... P1 of. Langsam Bailey Halt, room 205 Social Studies 2 ....... ::.h. Baker Bailey Hall, room 304 Social Studies 2 ....... ::.II'. Rot undo Bailey Hall, room 202 Social Studie~ lOa ..... Prof. S~anley Bailey Hall, room 204 Social Studies 11 Pmf. Bennett Bailey Hall, room 201 Social Studie~ 11 Mr. Rotundo Bailey Hall, room 202 Social Studies 12 Prof. Sylve~ter Bailey Hall, room 108 Social Studies 12 Prof. Campbell Bailey Hall, room 108 Social Studies 22 Prof. Langsam Bailey Hall, 1oom 205 Social Studieo; 27 PJ'Of. Doty Bailey Hall, room 210 Social Studies 31 PJ·of. Stanley Bailey Hall, room 204 Social Studies 36 P1·of. Bronner Bailey Hall, mom 201 Social Studies 37 ........ Mr. Rotundo Bailey Hall, room 202 Social Studies 48 P1·of. Sytveste1· Bailey Hall, room 108 3:304:30 P. M. Chemistry 3 Lab. Prof. Stanford Chern. Laboratory, room 201 Greek 14 .............. Dr. Coffin Bailey Hall, room 300F Mathematics 1 ........ Prof. Sn~ der Civil Engineering Bldg., 205 Social Studies 1 . . . . . . . Prof. Bronner Bailey Hall, room 201 Social Studies 32 ...... Prof. Bronnm· Bailey Hall, room 201 Social Studies 38 ...... Prof. Whital\el· Bailey Hall, room 201 Social Studies 39 Prof. Bennett Bailey Hall, room 201 Social Studies 40 . . . . . . Prof. Whital>er Bailey Hall, room 201 Social Studies 45 ...... Prof. vVhital\er Bailey Hall, room 201 STUDENTS RE,PORTING FOR MAKE-UP TESTS MUST :PRESENT SLIPS STA~[PED WITH THE NAME OF .THE DEAN Call Ball and PHONE 6-3456 Ball Will Call WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING- ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY c 0. CORNER STATE and CENTER STREETS Let Us Serve You With the Finest MILK, CREAM, ICE CREAM and Other Dairy Products CLOVERLAND CREAMERY 919 STATE ST. PHONE 6-8104 ilf I I I I I i II GOING NORTH?? IN SARATOGA IT'S Be TE Tr L ~ c B: und the rene tery 1·en< Ul'e tion witl the ting any wei! Tc hav• Geo ye:.11 han Jon also Bur the sign pitc is f and thl't Col< taU pitc ski, Joh Hie B Cah fres cat< fres 1en1 the derr or ~ der will \Vee y had tra< cut hop VlOl' mid fer pen sho lost €'XC1 Dre pro· mel ing st:11 lap~ clO< tho· Ket wh! :• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 1111 • • • • • • • • • I!!! • • • • • • I!\•• L

I I I I oon an- at- ible re- the 203 203 201 201 201 201 201 201 201 201 201 24 208 208 208 208 208 208 208 208 107 108 107 0 ~; 201 205 ~NT _, r 3 SPORTS FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1942 Baseball, Track Carnwright Leads ScoriifUJ Machi,ne 'Hartford Courant' Reports Trinity Forfeit Four Teams Ready For Cage Playoffs T ea:ms Com:mence Training Grind Swimmers \Whitev\ C\al'nwright captaiN- w· z·n ~ 1 ee t By elect of basketball for 1942-43, was 1 J'.J.. 1 high scCJrer for the Garm•t quintet By HARVEY J. FISHBONE <®-- - -~----------------- this year. He s<mk 33 baskets and 1 1::> foul shots fm· a total of 87 An account of the cancelled , be held at the Schenectady two to five per cent. Since the city Delta Phi nosed out Sigma Chi in an intrmural basketba.!l game Wednesday evening when \Mac\ Yuen sank a long shot ·in the last few seconds of play to nose out Sigma Chi 21-19. The ·Sigs had been leading the whole game when Mac took his shot. Lawrence, Ketz Survey Material for Squads: points. He was foi'!owed in order swimming meet with Trinity Col-,. Y.M.C.A, but it was pointed out watPr is chlorinated aNyhow, there by Johnny Clowe, Lee Sherman, lege on February 28 <last Satur- that the same watet· and pool con- seems to be no basis for the allega- Ronnie Macomber, Captain Ben day) appea·red in the \Hartford dltions exi~tecl there. A shift of tion of Coach Clarke. Jalrabows·ki, and Sy Meisel. Courant\ under the head \Trinity the mePt to the R. P. I. pool was The contention that the \janitor Cindermen Add Meet Pla .. y«>r- G F p Swimmers Win Meet Without Get- contemplated, but it was impossible didn't thinh anybody would use Carnwright . . . . . . . . . . . 37 13 87 ting Feet Wet.\ The article fol- tc get officials to judge the meet the pool,\ i8 fallacious since the Baseball and track practice got Clowe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 15 77 lows: a:t the R.P.I. pool for sevet·al of usual preparations were made prior underway early this week UNder Sherman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 4 10 58 \The Tl'inity College swimming tl:em had made plans which ne- to the meet as indicated above. Phi Sigma Delta, led by Stewie Goldblatt who made 11 points, de- feated Chi Psi 33-25. Delta Chi won on a fm·feit from the North College. the guidance of Coaches Art Law- Macomber . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 14 54 team woN its strangest victory yes- cessitated that they be done before False Report renee and Bill Ketz. Only the bat- Jakobowski . . . . . . . . . . . 15 9 39 terday, and not a member of the 6 o'clock, which was about the The report in the \Hartforcl tery men have been called by Law- Meisel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 4 36 team as much as got his f·eet wet in earliest hour it would have been CoUl·ant\ is based upon false in- reNce although several infielders Jones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 2 22 turNing the trick. pos:>ible to finish the meet at the formation and i8 by implica;tion aN The teams in the playoffs will be Beta Theta Pi and Kappa Nu from League A and Delta Chi and Phi Sigma Delta from League B. As Kappa Nu and the Betas are tied for first, a coin will be flipped to determine who will be in posses- sion of first place. The winner of each league wiJ.l play the second place team in the other .Jeague. Ul'e getting in some early condi- Peer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 2 10 The Blue and Gold natators went R.P.I. pool. attempt to accuse UnioN College of- tioning. Ketz is working mainly Vinick . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1 7 aN the way to Schenectady, N. Y., The statement that \a test show- ficials of \dereliction\ by not .tak- with his runner:>, but in a few of Allen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 1 5 for a meet with Union, took one ed the water contained no chlo- ing certain precautions previous the field events his men are get- 'Molyneaux ...... , . . . . . 0 0 0 look at the Foote Memorial Pool rine\ is untrue, for no test was to the schedu1ed time for the meet, ting into condition before doing --o---- there and came back with a forfeit . taken during the bickering. Rec- and that they were responsible for any jumping or throwing of D b C a ·ht victory. I ot·ds indicate that the pool was those conditions which, in reality, weights. DO . . arnw·rlg . Joe Clarke, Trinity coach, took I fl'ee of bacteria and contamination \might\ be a source of contamina- Ten pitc!'J.ers ancl three catchers J IJ. d C full responsibility in refusing to at the last test taken. A specimen tion, despite analytical reports to have reported for battery practice. () !Jbe(l agers allow his team membets to enter of the pool water is taken every the contrary. The kind of opinion George Coley, reserve pitcher last the pool. Clarke said there was an week to the Ellis Hospital for which may be held of Union Col- ---0 ye:lr, is the only holdover to Bob \Whitey\ Carnwright, stel- inch of muck at the bottom of the analysis, results of the tests are lege as a result of this misinfor- handle these chores, while Frank Jar forward en the varsity basket- pool and that a test showed the sent to the State Department of mation is not to he disregarded. Intramural Schedule BASKETBALL Jones, first string catcher, has ball team, was elected captain of water contained no chlorine.\ i Health and to the .Joca:l Board of Some measure must be taken to also reported. Dean Smith, Bruce the squad for 1942-43 by the letter Clar-kt> s Statement 1 Health. A call to th{' local DPpart- rectify any false impressions the Tonight 7:30-Delta Chi vs. Kappa Sigma. 8:30-Chi Psi vs. South College Monday, March 9, 7:30-Semi- Burns, and Bill Hill are among men on Wednesday afterNoon, and ment by Dr. Clowe indicated that public may have gleaned from this the newcomers who have shown Fred Wikoff, center of the hockey \That pool might have been full to the knowledge of the party there incident and the Courant report. signs of promise as far as the team's forward line, was elected of bacteria,\ Cla·rke said. \Chlorine were no unsatisfactory reports on -----a--- pitchers are concerned. Lawrence captain of the sextet for 1942-43 on destroys bacterine but there was the college pool. Mermen Meet Rochester finasl. Fitz's Stor;y is faced with the task of finding Tuesday by the lettermen. none in the po8l. The janitor told and developing at least two or Carnwright, who hails from me he did not even turn on the three men to carry the burden. Sauget·ties, N. Y., received a block chlorine because he 'didn't think Preparations for the meet were Coley may play in the outfield U in both varsity basketball and anybody would use the pool.'\ begun on Friday when the pool t ather thaN do any pitching. Other haseball last year as a sophomore Clarke added that Union Athletic water was changed. Ed Fitz no- pitchers include Erwin Dombkow- and was the recipient of numerals A\sociation officials agreed that he tlced that some sed•iment had ~et­ ski, Si Steinhart, Boris Kaufman, . in these two sports in his freshman v;as justified in refusing to allow tied on the bottom of the pool .In John Mann, Art Frohlich, and Ray i year. He is a member of the Stu- his members to enter their pool. hopes that the water would clear, Hickox. I dent Council and the Garnet Key The story is highly inaccurate, he left it alone until Saturday. Rt-ceivt>rs Plentiful Society. He is a member of Theta and the source for the informa- There was no change, and in order Besides Jones there are Rocco Delta Chi Fraternity. tion contained in the article could to have the pool ready for the Calandruccio and Bob Lange, both In his sophomore year, Carn- be no one other than a member meet, he filled it to the proper freshmen, who are trying for the wright played on the starting five of the Trinity swimming team or mark. As the city water is chlo- catcher's post. If either of these of the basketball team and was Coach Clarke. rinated, Fitz did not add more freshmen shows any promise, Law- third highest scot·er on the squad. The meet was cancelled, not for- chlorine. The reason for this is 1 ence may be able to use Jones in He played both shortstop and third feited, as the article woulcl have that some swimmers are bothered the outfield, if his fly chasers don't base on the baseball team. This its readers think. Coacn Clarke by a great amount of chlorine in demonstrate any power at the plate year Whitey was high scorer on suggested to Hal Wittner, our Di- the wa:tet· besides hampering their or ability in the field. The remain- the cage team, totaJling 87 points. rector of Athletics, that the meet efforts. In addition, Fitz disclosed der of the candidates for the squad He hit his peak against Middlebury be considered a forfeit. Wittner that chlorination is necessary will have their first session on when he garnered 23 points, and in was unwilling to do so because of when a large number of persons \Vednesday afternoon. the R. P. I. game he played one the stigma attached to such an ac- use the pool. As only thirty or so Yesterday afternoon Bill Ketz of the best games seen on the tion, and since the Union team would use it during the meet, the had a large turnout on the board l~nion court both on offense and was prepared to swim, he felt that chance for contamination was track. About thirty-five men are defense. there was no basis for justifying a slight. cut for the team, and Ketz has Wikoff came to Union from Bal- forfeit. The amount of cholrine usually hopes for a good season. He is timore Poly. He is a member of the H was suggested that the meet in the pool water measures from working hard with his sprinters •. Garnet Key Society and the Stu- llllilm-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIBii-iillllllllllllllllllllllllll middle-di~tance, and distance men, dent Council. Last fall he was Ill - fer the result of the meets will de- elected cha•irman of the Interfra- : : pend largely upon the Dutchmen's ternity Ball and chairman of the • • showing in these events. Having Interfraternity Council. As head of ·=· Gazette Press ·=· lost most of last year's weight men this organization. he was instru- except Bundy Shaw and Wally mental in stat·ting the Managers Breed. he is faced with the difficult Council. : : problem of finding suitable replace- Wikoff received numerals for • I ments. Moreover, he is still search- freshman football, and his sopho- • : ing for high and low hurdlers. more year he was awarded a block : • Ketz had his runners practice U in lacrosse and an hUt award in •. PrJintin d : st:uts after they had reeled off ten hockey. He was one of the lead- • I§ • laps or so. A few of the men were ing scorers on the lacrosse team • II clocked at various distances. AI- which experienced one of its most • 1 though it is early for time trials, successful season last year. He has : : Ketz was able to get a line on been named on the Dean's List for 1 • what his squad members can do. high scholarship. IIIIJIIilllllll•lllllll•lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!!'!lll, :••••••••••••m••••••••••••••a•••••••••••••••••••• 5 CREAM .. CREST E • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • IJI 5 Vitamin D Milk • : Supplies that needed energy for the • • • coming winter months. • • • • • : GENERAL ICE CREAM CORP. : . : : For Service Phone 4-3121 • • • ~··························~~····················~~ Sale of OKEH and DECCA Popular Records Regular $.37 Special $.29 217 State Street-Schenectady, New York A R R 0 w ~warms of Oxford men on campus We mean, of course, men wearing oxford cloth shirts, the favorite fabric of undergrads. Most popular of all oxfords is Arrow Gordon, for these very sound reasons: It has the best-looking of all possible collars- your choice of regular, gently-rolling button-down, or wide-spreads. It has the Sanforized label - won't shrink even I%. It has the \Mitoga\ figure· fit-no hunchiness. It has anchored buttons. We have all sizes, whites and coloi'S. Get some today- with Arrow Ties to go with 'em. NUSBAUM'S \'47 ... 451 STATE: STREET A R R 0 w '---------A R R 0 W ---------J in Finale Tomorrow The Union College swimming team entrain this evening at 6 o'clock for their last meet, with the l'niversity of Rochester tomorrow. Coach Joe Wheatley has put the mermen through a week of inten- sive training, consisting of time trials and distance swimming. Tuesday, March 10, 8:00---Finals. ---0--- North vs. South South College, its basketball team and its residents, tired of he.J.ring North Co!Iege talk about its basketball team, have uttered a challenge to the Yankee dorm to meet it in basketball. MODERN DINER Cor. ALBANY and VEEDER Those who are making the tr.ip are: Divers-Dave Tilly and Bill Sears; 100 yard free style-Lenny Benjamin, Sam Trull, Ted Gray, Art LaRoche, Howie Parsons, Bob RPed, and George Anderson; back, stroke - Duck Sokolowski; breast I ~_~t_r_o_ke~_Cap~~in_ -~~-l_H_endri~on~~============~========~~~~ r-----------------------------------------------i I I I I I I ! Clark Witbeck Co~ i I I ! Hardware ! I I I 416·418 STATE STREET ! I Quality Hardware Since 1870 i I I II I PHONE 4·4161 .•. WE DELIVER t I I I I I G.E. Mazda Lamps, Floor Wax, Pocket Knives, Kitchen l I Cutlery, Clocks, Tools of All Kinds, Pyrex, Hose, Valdura I I Paint and Enamel, \Yale\ and Sargent\ Hardware- J I I L-----------------------------------------------J ·:? [K]ere's a winner on every campus! F AVORITE of college men is the oxford cloth shirt - and leader of the oxfords is Arrow Gordon Oxford. It comes in the button-down, regular and wide-spread collar models. Mitoga· tailored, Gordon will always keep its fit, for it is labeled Sanforized (fabric shrinkage less than I%). In whites, solids, and fancy pat· terns. Get Arrow Gordon now! And get some Arrow ties to go wil11 it!

llqUDAY, MARCH 6, 1942 CI:JRRICULAR 4 Dean Announces· Elective C'fourses for '42- '43 ·~).- ------ -~ ~ ELECTIVE COURSES Chemistry 12 <Organic Chemistry), T., Th .. S .. 1'1.:20-12:10; lab., M, or UPPER-CLASS COURS~ES OUTSIHE THE DIVIS:IONAL . T., 1:30-3:30, ot· Th., 2:30-4:30. Professor Schmidt. : ORGANIZATION Chemistry 22 <Ph> sica! Chemistry l, M., W., 9-9:50; la:b., F., 1 :30-3:30. For 1942-19-1:~ Dt·. Stanfmd. I Religi-on 1, T., Th., S., 11:20-12:10. Reverend Houghton. . . . I Chemistry 23a, b <.Advanced Organic Chemi::try. Colloid Chemistry), T., Appreciation of Music, M, W., F., 1:30-2:30. Director Tidma·rsh. In pre<enting the llst of elechve courses for the academtc year Th .. 11 :20-12:10; lab., F., 1:30-3:~0. Dr. Cotzin. I 1~42~1943 ~ay I request that .an studer:ts who must choose electives be- 1 Geo!Ggy 12 <Geology and Physiogra.phy of North America), M., F., 1:30- ELE:CTIVES FOR B. S, IN CHEMISTRY AND gm 1 mmPrlmtPly thP prPpnm.twn of thPtt·. C'Ollr!'P progntms f<ll' nPxt YPHl' , 3 : 3 0. Professor Smith. . . , , .. Al'l programs must be completed by Apnl ll. :Geology 22 <Economic Geology), M., F., 3:30-5:30. Professor Smith. I B. S. IN PHYSICS STUDENTS Catalogs describing the various courses and stating pt·c-t·equisites, Mathematics 21 <Advanced Calculus and Differential Equations), M, W., Any elective may be chosen for which the student has had the llta~ J..~ l,.,Hl ~,.( !1:) uf'!i,~ <.1- ..:uull a.; the:, :llt·ivc ft~m the printcL : F., lu:2u-ll.i0; T., Til., .S., 10.20-11.10. Ptufe,;ul :';ful\\· ]J!'e>!Jel i'Jl'tHeLJ.uisile::> and whieh h. sehetluleJ at une uf lhe limes intli- Under the rules of the co! lege all bacl' work takes .precedence overi Mathematics 22 <Differential and Integral Calculus), M., W., F., 10:20- cated. · new work and must be scheduled fi.rst unless permission to postpone • 11:10. Professor Fox. B. S. in Chemistry--4 year program. it i::; granted. Mathematics !H 1 Yfodel'l1 Higher Geometry), T., Th., S., 9-9:50. Profes.or Seniors: M, W., F., 9-9:50 or 11:20-12:10; T., Th., S., 8-8:50 or 10:20- Eat!h student must file his coUI se pl'Ogt·am with his a<!viser and Burl{ett. 11:10. Mathematics 31 <Advanced Calculus), T., Th., S., 10:20\11:10. Professor Juniors: M., W., F., 8-8:50 or 11:2Q-12:10; T., Th., S., 8-8:50 or 9-9:50 must p·repare a tin:e-~chedule eat·d so that con·tlicts in cow·ses may be avoided. Fot·ms fot· this purpose have been sent tu the advisers. Sr,yder. 01' 11:20-1'2:10. It i:,; expected that students who wish to attend the summer tenu Physics 3 <General Physics for students preparing for the study of Sophomores <3 year pl'an): Choose two electives, M., W., F., 9-9:50 will indica·tP the coarsPs they will takP this summet· lmd also prepare tnedicinel, lt>cture T., 9-9:50; tecitations Th., S., 8-8:50 or 9-9:50; lab., 1 . 0r 11:.20-12:10; T., Th., S., 9-9:50 or 10:20-11:10. their pt·ogtams for next year. 1 F., 1:30-3:30 or 3:30-5:30. Professor Thatcher. 'B. S. m Phystcs-4 year .program. C. F. GARIS 'Physics 21 <Heat, Electricity, Magnetism), T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10; lab., Seniors: M., W., F., 8-8:50 or 9-9:50 or 11:20-12:lQ; T., Th., S., 8-8:50 Dean! T., 1:30-4:30 or Th .. 2:30-5:30. Professor Rojansky. or 9-9:50 or 11:2&-12:10. TIME SCHEDULE OF COURSES ! Ps~ chology 3 1 History of Education and Principles of Education), M Juniors: M., W., F., 11 :20-12:Hl; T., Th., S., &.8:50 or 11:20-12:10. ' W., F., 9-9:50. Professor ChiHrud. Sophomores: M., W., F., or T., Th., S., 11:20-12:10. :-11'1 junim or Et.>nior taking a four yeat· pro~ ram rna~· elect f0r credit ! Ps~ cho!ogy 4 1 Educational Psychology and General Principles of Teach- Sophomores <3 year plan): M., W., F., 9-9:50 or 11 :20-12:10; T., Th., morl' than one under-class course. Requir<>ments for majors and elec- ingl, M., \V., F., 8-8:50. Pt·ofessor Chillrud. S., 9-9:50. tion of courses are printed in the catalog. :Psychology 11 <Abnormal Psychol0gy and Personality>, M., W., F., 9-9:50. 1 Profe<sm· Ligon. . SUMMER TERM COURSES I Psychology 12 tStatistiLal Methods), T., Th., S., 8 -8:50. Professor Chtll- All courses will meet for class-room work or for class-room work I rud. and la•boratory work Monday to Friday inclusive. On each Monday an DIVISION OF LITERATCRE l' pper-class Courses ! Psychology 21 1 Advanc<>d Psychology), M • W., F., 10 : 20 · 11 : 1 0: or T., Th., Assembly wi.Jl be held at 10 A. M. On this day only morning classes i S .. 10:20-11:10. Professor March. will meet 8-8:50; 9-9:50; Assembly; lD-20-11:10 and 11:20-12:10. Comparative Literatlll·e, .M., VV., F., 9-9:50. Pt·ofessor Coffin. I Psychology 22 <Practice Teaehing and Methods), M., W., 3 : 3 0-G. Pro- S. S. 37 <Pr0blems of Labor and Management), 8-9. Eng~~~~~? ~~~~~nand the sewntt•Pnth epnturyl. T .. Th .. S .. 9 - 9 : 50 ' Pro- IPsy:~~~~Yc;il~r~~:chological Methodsl, M., Th., or T., F .. 1:30-4:30. Pro- ~a~h!~~~::~~d~~~:el~~~~~~~:dni~t~~~l S~~~;~.~~~t~~9 and 11:30-12:30. English 23 l The Romantic .Period>, T., Th., S, 8-8:50. P!Ufes,:;or Blod- fessor Ligon. I English 10 (Introduction to English Literature), 8-9. gett. 1 S. S. 47 <The Role of the United States in World PoJ.itics), 9:10-10:10. English 25a, b <'The English Novel. Thl' English Drama>, M .. W .. F., t:nder-class Courses s. s. 11 <Elementary Economics), 9:10-10:10. 10:20-11:10. Professot· Herrick. Spanish 1s <Elementary Spanish), 9:10-10:10. En.gli:;h 30 <American Literature>.~'!.. W .. F., 9-9:50. Professot· Waing-er. 1 Biology 1 1General Biology), T., Th., 10:20-11:10; lab., F .. 1:30-3:30. Mathematics 21 <Advanced Calculu-5 and Differentia'! Equations), 9:10- English 32a, b I Advanced Composition). ~L. W .. F., 11:20-12:10. Professor: Biology 2 <General Biology fat· maJots in biology and for students pre- 10:10. Johnson. paring fur the study of medicine>, T., Th, 11:20-12:10; la·b., M., or S. S. 12 <Introduction to Government), 10:20-11:20. French 20a 1 Ft·ench Civilization of the nineteenth and twentieth cen-, w .. ur Th., 1:30-3:30. English 12s <Introduction to American Literature), 10:20-11:20. turiesl, T .. Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Professor Zabuesnic. Biology 6 !Human Biology), M., W., 9-9:50; lab., Th., 1:30-3:30. Mathematics 2 <Trigonometry and analytic geometry), 10:20-11:20. Ft ench 21a, h 'History of Ft·pnch Litt>ratme from the earliest times to , Biology 11 <Zoology and Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates), M., W., Psychology 1 <General Psychology), 10:20-11:20. the presentl, T .. Th .. S., 10:20-11:10. Professor Bennetton. 11:20-12:10; Ja,b., T., or W., or F., 1:30-3:30. S. S. 35s <American History, 1763-1942), 11:30-12:30. German 20 < Pt·actice in advanced German conversation and composi- 'Chemistry 1 1 General Chemistry for engineers), T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10; French 20b <Reading and Discussion of Modern French Literature), tionl, M .• W .. F .. 10:20-11:10. Mr. Condoyannis. 1 la:b., ~'! .. or Th., 1:30-3:30. 11:30-12:30. German 2la, b I History of German Litera tun from the Parliest times Chemistry 3 1 General Chemistty >, M., W., F., 8-8:50; lab., T., or F., 1:30- German 2 (Second year College German), 11:30-12:30. to the present>. Cl-1 .. W., F., 11:20-12:10. Dr. Stubing. 3:30. · Chemistry 3 <General Chemistry), 1:30-2:30; lab., M., W., 2:30. Greek 22 I Advanced Gteek >. T .. Th., S, 11:20-12:10. Profess01· Coffin. Chemistry 11 1 Quantitative Analysis), M., or W., 10:20-11 :10; lab., M., or Chemistry 11 (Quantitative Analysis), M., W., 1:30-2:30; lab.; M, W., Italian 1 tElementary Italian>, M., W., F., 10:20-11:10. Dr. Silber. T., or Th., 1:30-3:30. 2:30, T., Th., 1:30. Latin 2 <Roman Law>, T .. Ttl .. ::> .. 9-9:50. Profe~sor Kellog.g, Geology 1 !General Geo!ogyl, T. Th., 1:30-2:30; lab .. T., or Th., 2:30- Chemistry 12 <Organic Chemistry), 1:30-2:30; lab., M., W., 2:30. Latin 22 !Lucretius>, T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Professor Kellogg. 1 4:30 01 · W., 1:30-3:30. I Chemistry 21 <Physical Chemistry), 1:30-2:30; lab., M., T., W., Th., 2:30. Spanish 1 1 Elementary Spanish l, C\-1., W, F .. 8-8:50. Professor BPnnetton. 1 Mathematics 2 <Survey course in algebra, trigonometry, and analytic Physics 21 (Heat, Electricity, and Magnetism), 1:30-2:30, Lab., M., W., Spanish 10 <Second year Spanish>. T., Th .. S .. 9-9:50. Dr. Stubing. geometry), M., W., F., 10:20-11:10: T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Th., 2:30. 'Mathematics 12 1 Differential and Integral Calculus), M .. W., F., 8-8:50; Elements of Electrical Engineering-M., T., W., Th., 1:30; lab., T., Th., Under-class Courses T .. Th., S., 8-8:50. 2:30. English 1 1 Freshman English>. ~1.. W., F., 8-8:50 01 T., Th .. S. 8-8:50 or 9-!':50 01' 10:20-11:10. Physics 1 1 General Physics-students electing this course must elect All junior academic students must take three courses in order to 9-9:30 ot 10:20-11:10: Physics 11 in the following yearl, lecture M., 9-9:50 or 10:20-11:10; graduate in December 1942. All other academic students are advised to recitations. W., F., 9-9:50 or 10:20-11:10; lab., M., or T., or W., or Th., take three courses. ot· F., 1:30-4:30. Lecture and laboratory in alternate weeks. All freshmen engineet·s must take mathematics 11 and Elements of English 10 < Intl·oduction to English Literature>, ~f .. \\'., F., 10:20-11:10 or 11:20-12:10: T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Physics 2 1 Geneml Physics for students in Divisions I or II), lecture Electrical Engineering. French 1 tEleml'ntary FrPnchl, T .. Th., S., 11:20-12:10. French 2 tSecond year French>. T .. Th., S .. 8-8:50. ' T., 9-9:50; recitations, Th .. S., 9-9:50; lab., W., 1:30-3:30. Lecture and i All B. S. in Chemistry and B. S. in Physics freshmen must take French lOa < lntt·oduction to French Literature>, ~f.. W., F .. 11:20-12:10 French lOb 1 lntJoduction to Fn:nch Litet·aturcl, M., \V., F., 9-9:50. French 20b 'French Civilization uf the ninPteenth and twentieth cen- ' laboratory in altel'l1ate weeks. j Mathematics 11 and Chemistry 11. Physics 11 1 Second course in General Ph~sic:;), lecture M., 8-8:50; reci-1 All B. S. in Chemistry sophomores must take Chemistry 21 and ta.tions W .. F .. 8-8:50; lab. M .. or T., or W .. or Th .. ot· F., 1:30-3:30. , Mathematics 21. turies>, C\-1., W .. F., 11:20-12:10. Psychology 1 tGcnetal Psychology), l\II., W., F., 10:20-11:10 or 11:20-12:10;; All B. S. in Physics sophomores must take Physics 21 and Mathe- T., Th., S .. 10:20-11:10 or 11:20-12:10. i matics 21. German 1 1 Elementary Germani, C\-1., W .. F., 8-8:50; T., Th., S .. 8-8:50. German 2 tS<>cund year German>, M., W., F, 9-9:50: T., Th., S., 9-9:50. German 10 1 Introduction to the Classics>, T .. Th .. S., 10:20-11:10. Greek 1 !Elements of Greekl. M .. W .. F .. 10:20-11:10. !.Buy Defense Bonds and Stamps Greek 11 •Xenophonl, T .. Th .. S., 9-9:50. 1 Latin 1 <Se!Pctions from Latin prose and poetry>. ~'!.. W .. F .. 11:20-12:10. La·tin 11 tSPlPctions from Latin poet I) 1. ~'!.. W., F, 10:20-11:10. DIVISION OF SOCIAL STUDIES Cpper-class Courses S. S. 21 1 Ew·ope since 18701, M., W., F., 9-9:50. Profe,.sor Langsam. , S. S. 22 I European Colonial Expansion>, :\1. W., F .. 10:20-11:10. ProfE's-' sm· Langsam. S. S. 23 •European \\'ar and PolitiC'~. 1648-1870>. CI-t. \\'., F .. 9-9.50. Pro- fe:;sor Doty. S. S. 27 !Eighteenth and ~ineteenth Century England), T., Th., S., 8-8:50. ProfE>ssor Doty. S. S. 30 !Development of Economic Thought>. M .. W .. F., 8-8:50. Pm- fessor Stanley. S. S. 32 1 Social and lntPllectual History of the United States!, M., W., I --------~------. Pleasant Valley Meat Market House of Sunshine Meat Products 586-592 Broadway PHONE 4-3181-2-3-4 F., 11:2.0-12:10. Profess1!r Bronner. . . 1 ·1 S. S. 33 I History of the Umted States -\111C'e 1865), T., Th .. S., 11:20-12:10. · , Professot Bronner. ! ===========~=-=~=-=--=~=_::;_==::::;:.! S. S. 37 1 Problems of Labor and Labor :V1anagementl, M., W., F., 8-8:50 Mt·. Rotundo. S. S. 38 <Corporation FinanC'Pl, T .. Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Profe~sor Whit-i aker. 1 S. S. 39 1 ;vlon~y u~d 'Ranl\ing 1:. T., Th., S:~ /\-8:!i0. Professor .Be~nett. . 1 · S. S. 40 <Acrountmg and BusmPss Stattsttcsl, T .. Th., 9-9.50, lab .. F. 1:30-3:30. Profe~sor BPnnett, fin<t half; Profe>sor Whital,er, second: hal~ · S. S. -12 1 Public Administmtion in thf' ~ational Government>, ~· W .. F.,, 10:20-11:10. Profpssor Campbell. S. S. 44 •National Policy F01·mationl, T., Th., S., 11:20-12:10. Professor Campbell. I S. S. 45 tPublic Finance and Taxation> .M., W .. F .. 11:20-12:10. Professor 1 Whitaker. 1 S. S. 47 tThe Role of thP United States in Wot·ld Politicsl. M .. W .. F .. 1 11:20-12:10. Professor Sylvester. S. S. 48 •State and Local Governme>nt in Praeticel, T., Th., S., 9-9:50. Pt·ofessor Sylvester. S. S. 50 •Social and Political Philosophy>, T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Pro- fessor LatTa·bee. S. S. 56 1 Seminal>. By appointment with Haff. tTnder-class Courses I I S. S. 1 tHistory of Western Civilization), T., Th .. S., 9-9:50: M., W .. 11:20-12:10. F.,i S. S. 2 !Introduction to Social Institutions>, M .. W., F., 10:20-11:10: T., Th .. S., 10:20-11:10. S. S. 10 tMPthods and Problems>. M., W., F., 8-8:50: T .. Th., S., 11:20- 12:10. Special section for Philosophy, T, Th., S., 11:20-12:10. S. S. 11 1 Elementary Economics>, T .. Th., S., 9-9:50; l\'l., W., F., 12:10. 11:20-1 I S. S. 12 tlntroduction to Government>, T .. Th., S., 8-8:50; M., W., F., 1 9-9:50. DIVIRION OF SCIENC'E Upper-class C'om·ses I Biology 12 <Botany>. T, Th., 8-8:50: lab., W., 1:30-3:30. Professor Dale. I Biology 21 <Embryology), M., W .. or F., 8-8:50; lab., M., T., or Th .. 1:30-[ 3:30. Professor Scott. 1 GOOD SHOES Since 1893 X-RAY FITTING PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Your Hit Parade On Records MOONLIGHT COCKTAILS Glenn Miller Horace Heidt Glen Gray BLUES IN THE NIGHT Jimmie Lunceford Artie Shaw Benny Goodman HOW ABOUT YOU Tommy Dorsey Dick Jurgens THIS WEEK'S SPECIAL ,JERSEY BOUNCE STRING OF PI<~ARLS Benny Goodman at Biology 22 <Physiology>. T .. Th .. 9-9:50: lab .. Th., 1:30-3:30. Professor' Cluett & Sons Mavor. ~~==~~~====~~ i A N D FROSH· SOPH DANCE A F T T H E D A N c E T H E p E R F E VAN T A P c T s p 0 T B E F 0 R CURLER R 0 0 M E Biology 23 <Nervous sy:tem and sense otgansl. T., Th .. 10:20-11:10; lab., 508 STATE ST. M., 1:30-3:30. Professor Clark 11,:_============;;;;! I 1!-~-;:;;;;;~~;:::;:==~==================~=~======~======;:4!1 ( Vol f Ad To Pr~ 51 Tt D1 Ap .prOS] tribu week Offic call Vaca asce1 teres whic gain each Th uate was wher. holid will said of A Cone Ca ~ired grad· rcpol ufter after Ta. nnce echot a mt In ate > ing g-iver tify inten Theil t·efer S::Jme Mr his t ernot high view. the g-cod \1\ a:tc some are , as n ment a chi! tion celer Ab Fres: and uted Adm Bo !\feet 0cra1 conti week Su a dis is tl Legi1 Yor~ for base< of tt Dr Univ Bt'OC will ccral Marc R. p Ace An ing fdr r Rem was a n1 studt then Pr· class start June a·bou Fh men the 1 class to c steac

the 1ui- :20- ork a,rr :30. :10- w., :30. W., to to of ake GLEE CLUB RECORDING ON UBS TONIGHT /. PROM TICKETS ON SALE THIS WEEK The Student Newspaper of Union College Vol. LXV. No. 45 •PII·<•l'~I-'S• EdHor.jal 4·0133 ·' · · Press 4·-1141 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1942 Price 5c Freshmen WiU Be Ad:mitted To Summer Term June 22 --·-------~ Admissions ·O~fi:ce Glee Club Recording of ColleCJe Song CoUesano Wins Engineers, Excluded f:ro~m New 'T .· H ~ d ·o ; 1600 Medley To Be On UBS Tonight at 7:l0 Third In District R lin T E. t r s t . b 8 Q an Ut First hearing for the Glee Club record of the college song u g, 0 n e · ep em er Pros .pe·cts' ~·aim. •eS 'medley will be held tonight at 7:30 on UBS, w. James Still- Debating Contest I' • man, '42, said yesterday. The advance pressing of the record Techn,ica~l Entrants To Be Offered Sum,mer D~rawing Course, If Demand Is Sufficient Students Are Requested ·has already been played for an audience of Glee Club mem- To Visit Subufreshmen · bers, who have expressed complete approval. During Spring Recess Orders fo1· the first hundred copies of the record are now . 1600 r being taken by .i.\Irs. Jenkins at the colleg-e bookstore. Al- Approximately names o , h l d l . h · f · f k · 'I·I prospective freshmen will be dis-' t oug 1 a e ay m t e q uotatwn o pnces or pac agmg sti ' tributed to the student body this prevents settin o· the exact price of the 12-inch record Still- week, according to the Admissions . ~ . . . '- Office. students will be asked to man said that It would be m the neighborhood of $1.2v. call on these men during Spring' Once the first supply of the records is exhausted it will Vacation next week, in order to . . ' .. ascertain the extent of their in- be some tune before a second orde1· can be filled, Sttllman terest in Union and the course in said. Deliverv of the first hundred records is expected with- which they nre interested, and to . . • gain \a general impression\ of Ill a few weeks. each man. ------------------------------------------·---------------------- This same system of unde.rgrad- uate contacting of sub-freshmen was found extremely successful when tried during the Christmas holida~·s. \We hope tbe response will be as gratifying as last time,\ said Frederic A. Wyatt, Director. of Admissions, in a letter to The Concordiensis. 24 Will Attend March 'Idol' Issue I.O.C.A. Week-end Distributed Today Union Leads with 16, l:ight Colleges Stili To Repor'i' Attendance Spor-ts, Tax Committee, Army Air Corps featured In Union's Quarterly Brandt of Colgate First, Russell Sage's Gaynor Second in Elimination Robert l\1. Brarrdt of Colgate Unive1·sity and Miss Mary Eliza- beth Gaynor, of Russell Sage Col- lege, both juniors, won first and seeond places, respectively, in the district elimination of the national Inter-American Rela,tions Contest held here la.:;t Saturday. The na· tirmwide contest is being sponsored by hte Rockefeller Office. Charles Collesauo '44, of Union, finished in third place. Two roundtables were presented in the afternoon, with eight stu- dents participating in each. Rep- I·esen tatives of Skidmore, .Russell. Sage, Colgate, R. P. I., Hamilton, and Union were entered in the contest. ! Six speakers were selected from the aHernoon roundtable discus- sions on the Rio conference to compete in the extemporaneous In its latest move to speed up its program for the wa1· period, the college will admit freshmen as candidates for the A. B. or B. S. degTees on June 22, 1942, and allow them to graduate as early as Christmas, 1944, according to a bulletin to be released tomorrow by President Dixon Ryan Fox. M.O.T.C. Accepts 15 Underg·raduates 3 Seniors, 6 Sophomores, 3 Juniors and 4 Freshmen To Train After Graduation The bulletin which announces this latest change in the college's wa·r time program will conbin a complete summary of \the college in war time.\ Most of the material contained in it has already been an- nounced, but the decision to admit freshmen this summer had long been a controversial subject, until explained in the new announce- ment. Technical Men Cards with the information de- tiired will be given to .the under- graduates and they a1·e requested to rcpo1t on their calls immediately after their retum to the campus after the vacation. Ta.Jks with the principal or guid- nnce teacher at the sub-freshman's Echool were also recommended as a means of getting information. The Outing Club't; most impor- tant weekend of the ;year starts .i:''riday when members begin entei·- tainment ot the Intercollegiate Uut- mg Club Association. The festiv· rties will take place at the Outing Club Cabin and at the Log House, both at North Creek, N. Y. Featuring student-written articles eontest in the evening. They in- on P1·of. Edwa1·d S. C. Smith, the 1 eluded Donald Watkin of Hamilton, Student Tax Committee and the Heinz Eisenberg of R. P. I., Ronald U . .S. Air Corps as a caree1·, the Epstein '44 of Union, Gaynor, Col- March issue of The Idol, the college Iesane, and Brandt. Acceptance of 15 undergraduates for training in the Marine Officers Training Corps after graduation was announced this week .by Lieu- tenant Arthur P. Bretherick, offi- cer in charge of the recruiting de- tail which has been examining ap- plicants in Alumni Gymnasium since last week. The Union quota of twenty-six men was divided so that eight of the enlistees would be seniors, six would ·be juniol s, six would be sophomores, and six would be freshmen. Of these only three sen- ior vacancies were filled. The Jun- iors also had only three, but the Sophomores filled their quota. The Freshmen were included for the fir-\'t time in the quota but only four men showed up for the exam- ination. Regular admission of technical course freshmen will .be deferred until September 8, when candidates for other couues may also enter if they ·prefer. In case of sufficient demand, engineering freshmen will be admitted on June 22 to take a summer course in drawing. This will help to ease the heavy engi- neering schedule later in the year, but will not advance the date of graduation. In order that those students who a1 e not planning to go home dur- ing the vacation should not be g-iven cards, they are ueged to no- tify the Admissions Office of their intentions as soon as possible. Their sub-freshmen names win be 1·eferred to other men from the same geographical location. Mr. Wyatt, who returned from his mid-western tour Monday aft- ernoon after visiting many of the high schools in the mid-'West inter- viewing prospects, says that due to the times much is doubtful. \A g-cod many mid-western schools are 11 a:tching three-year .plans with some skepticism,\ he· said. \They are worrying about such elements as maturity, finance, health, both mental and physical, academic achievement, and general absOl'P-, tion of information during an ac- · celerated program.\ About 550 invications to Sub- Freshman Week-end, March 27, 28 and 29, have already been distrib- uted to the various fraternities, the Admissions Office said. -------•0- ---- Town Meeting Hour Contin.ues for Recess Both the Empire State Town Meeting of the Air and the \Dem- N'ratic Processes\ broadcasts will continue during spring recess next week. Sunday's Town Meeting will hear a d·iscussion of the question, \What is the Proper Apportionment of Legislative Representatives in New York State?,\ while the meeting for the following week will be based on a discussion of \The Roie of the Movies in War Time,\ Dr. Charles F. Phillips of Colgate University and Dr. Thomas P. Brockway of Bennington College will be the speakers on the \Dem- · ccratic Processes\ broadcasts· of March 14 and 21, respectively. -----0-----. R. P. I. Juniors Given Accelerated Schedule An accelerated program, includ. ing financial aid where required, fdr members of the Class of 1943 at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute was announced Monday evening by a news commentator on WHAZ, student-operated broadcast station there. Present members of the junior class wHI end this term on May 9, starting their summer term on June 1. They will graduate on a·bout January 1, 1943. Financial help will be given those men who request it. Apparently the more than 200 members of the class will be given no opportunity to choose a four-year course in- stead of the three-year plan. Wide Representation So far twenty-four persons have definitely decided to come, with seve1 a! more in prospect. This n um- ber consists of sixteen trom Union, six from Skidmore, one from Vas- sar, and one from Smith. Transpor- tation for these twenty-four is as- sured, since cars for twenty-nine have been promised. As yet, eight colleges, including Vassar, have not been heard from. These will prob- ably swell both the attendance and the t1 ansportation facilities. quarterly magazine, made its ap- pearance on the campus this morn- ing. Besides these feature5, t-he year'~ third \Idol\ included its 1 egular articles, such as the \Notes and Comments\ section, devoted to hu- morous and satirical comment on current happenings, a spm·ts re- sume, and the mual \Off Campus\ list of popular eating spots. The article on Prof. Smith is by Roy H. Webs:er, and the tax com- mittee story, entitled, \Where the Money Goes,\ by Granger Tripp. The cover photo of Memorial Chapel is by Shiu Kong Yuen, as a1e the illustrations within the magazine. But What Would Chef Arthur Think? Enjoying themselves at the Freshman-Sophomore Dance Satur- day night are Warren Candela, '44, Virginia Smith, Elvira Stanco and Walt Breed, '44. Albert Anderson, '44, co-chairman, said last night that about 190 couples attended the informal affair, Union's first of the season. A profit of about $25 will PI'obably be realized on the affair, he said. \I think the dance was a complete success, judging from the many favorable reports I ·have heard,\ Anderson said. \Everyone S!'emed to have a fine time\. Fox Presides Subjects for the evening pmgram over which President Fox presided, were chosen two hours before the contest began. Each contestant spoke for seven minutes and then was quizzed upon his topic for two minutes by another of the con- testants. This was followed by a three minute concluding speech by each entrant. Judges of the contest included Professor Watt 8tewart of State Teachers College, Mr. Preston Moulton of Schenectady, Profes- sor Harold F. Sylvester and .Mr. Joseph Rotundo of Union. Brandt was. awarded an en- graved lifetime Sheaffer pen as first prize and Miss Gaynor receiv- Pd an engraved mechanical pencil I for second prize. They become eligi- ble for the regional contest which will be held at Syracuse Univer- sity next month. A tea was held for the judges and con~estants between the round table sessions in Hale House. Mrs. Douglas W. Campbell and Mrs. Harold Sylvester were in charge. Professor Campbell was director of the district contest and was chair- man of the two roundtable discus- sions. -----0--- Prom Tickets Go On Sale Friday The training of the enlistees will not begin until after the completion of their course at Union and will then consist of three months of in- tensive training at Quantico before actual service. The men who have been accepted and sworn in include: 1942-Bern- ard Haake, Solomon Blechman, Charles Stiles; 1943-Harold Joslin, Charles Snell, T. J. Connor; 1944-- Robert Heywood, Robert Horst- mann, Gregory McKennis, Robert H. Merrill, Robert Withington, Hal- old Zulauf; 1945- William Beck, Eugene Connor, Harold Fox, Rich- ard Ross. -------0--- Wyman, '41, Is Given Air Corps Commission PHot Cadet Charles G. Wyman, of ·Chatham, N. Y., was recently commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Army Air Corps at Turner Field, Albany, Georgia, Colonel John B. Patrick, Commanding Offi\ cer, announced this week. Wyman was a member of the class of 1941. Turner Field, an Advanced Fly- ing School, is one of a group of Air Bases which compri:oe the South- east Air Corps Training Center. It is here that Aviation Cadets, both pilot and navigation, are sent for their final phase of training. Under the present plan, fresh- men, except those in engmeering, who enroll in June and attend the summer and regular sessions may graduate in two and a half calen- dar years after starting their col- lege studies. Technical students and all who enter in September may speed up their program in the same way and graduate in April, 1945. President Fox emphasized in his announcement that the conven- tional four-year p10gram will con- tinue to :be available for students who want it. The only changes af- fecting such students will be the earlier opening and closing dates in Fall and Spring. He also pointed out that the 1942 summer session for all students except freshmen will begin on May 18. Sununary of War Effort The extent to which the college is geared to the nation's war effort was summarized in the bulletin in- cluded many items beyond the engi- neering courses and courses in chemistry and physics which are recognized as having a military value. Certain studies at the college qualify men for specialist service with the Army ·or Navy. The Navy selects upperclassmen as officer candidates, while the Marine Corps has recently taken a number for similar purposes. Air-minded stu- dents are provided for in the Civil· ian Pilot Training Program, which leads to any number of places in the service. In addition, all stu- dents will be included in the inten- sified physical training program which will stress phsical fitness under military standards. Tickets for the Junior Prom, April 10, will go on sale this Fri- day. it was announced yesterrray evening by H. Melville Messenger '43, Chairman of the Committee. The price for the Prom-goers. will be $6.60, the same as last year, Messenger said. Charlie Spivak and his orchestra, comprising a 16 piece aggregation of musicians, will provide the en- tertainment fot· the Junior class lestivities this year. Spivak has been selected as the band of 1942 by many of the popular and re- putable music trade magazines such as \Metronome\ and \Down- 'Lively and Noisy Affair' Writes .c~oburn, Describing Coast Air Raid The portrait of Charles Coburn~------------------------- beat.\ ------0--- , Let the Grecians Scream• Postponed as Falstaff, by Joseph Chase, which has long hung at Union College, has been returned to Mr. Coburn in Los Angeles so that it may be included in a large exhibition of Mr. Chase's works which is being shown there for the benefit of the American Red Cross. In writing Dr. Fox in acknowl- edging receipt of the portrait, Mr. \Let the Grecians Scream,\ Coburn says: satirical musical comedy which has \I mentioned the hazard of the already been presented twice on enemy. Opinion in Los Angeles is the eampus, will not have a third pretty thoroughly confused about performance tonight, as was an- the rumpus here in the early morn- nounced on the college ca:lendar ing of February 25th. From the for this month. vantage of my front windows over- Plans are now being considered looking the valley and a small arc for a thh·d performance of the of the beach beyond, I witnessed a ~·how, originally produced by The part of the- magnificent show. I was C?ncordiensis Club for its 65th An· I awakened by the artillery, which mversary Banquet, at some later . 1 was pounding rapidly. Satisfied date. These plans remain, how- that it wasn't thunder, I dressed ever, in an indefinite state. and went to the front of the apart- ment. The sky was latticed with sea1·chlight beams and lighted with fireworks such as I never saw be- fore. Tracer shells and shrapnel burst in the intersections of the beams and in a moving pattern. \It was a. lively and noisy affair against a complete blackout ex- cept for· the stars, and though I was fascinated by it and watched intently for almost two hours, I couldn't say that I saw any target. Of course, my perch was five or six miles, probably more, from the area where a target might have been visible. Anyhow, the discussion of the subject and its bandying about by the Navy and .the Army do no good whatever, and I make men- tion of it to you because, having visited my apartment, you have an appreciation of its possibilities as a front tier box from which to view a great spectaular show.\

m~r (!tnnrttrlli~tt!ilB WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1942 EDITORIAL 2 ~IemLer of the Associated Collegiate Press nnd dis- tl\i JJutur of the Colll'giate I hgt'st I tepre5~uteU for· :\ationnl Advertising by :\'at·1olial .\dvt:ru::;ing ~crv­ IL''t•, Im:., C'ullegc Publbh- ers I tevrest=uta ti ve, .420 ~1;.uli:-oll .\\'ellUt:, ::'\~w Yorl; City. Qlnnrnr \A Cmts.l Peua Parole Ass.1i\' :UA.'.\.\.(;I:S(; 1!0.\Hll E<litorinl Ofl\ice. Slllimnu llaU, t.;11ion College. l'ub- , licatio11 Ufiic~:, The UaH zette Pre::-~·. 3~H Htn'te ::-Jt. E11tered ill the ~nheiJt.•c .. tally Pu~t ( H fll'l.:> a:-> St._•l'- utHi ·Cia::-!\ .\'la·tl Jlnltt•r. subscription Gc a <\DJ!Y; $~ }car: dehroc1 cd all}\\ilclt! 111 the Unile<l Slates. ltuht·t·t. ll. lin~ Ja•r ....................... lldta l'psilon fl,u~,~- -1- 70:!:! ..••...........•............. Editur-iu-l\hld ,IU,t·hl Pt•rhtl•iu ............................ 1\.apt'a :\:u lit,ll:--.t - l-~J3L ......... , ............... Hu-,illl'~\' JIHIUl~'l'l' (iranA't~r Trillll . . . . Phi ~igrna E.app:l llr•U:->t 1-l·t;:lG .•......•....•....•...... :ua.nag·.In~· 'Etli1ur Jlan••y ,J, 1-\hhhom· ......•.•.............. Ka]l!llt :-=u Hou~t·~--!-7331 ............................... -~JHIJ\t~ 1-:t!itur \\ all.Pr ,). !'-.!c:iiUlz . . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 :-\uutlt ~t·(·tJ'un, Xuith l 't~llegt• li-~9titi ...................... Ft•alnl'P Etlitur :-\t'.)IIWUr Tl•kluuun . ........... l'fll :-'tgm,t 1 1 v1Lt llru:-.t· ti-117·ti.J ....•....•..........•... ('hh·t· {'oJJ) Et.IUur 'ol'llll_lll -\·· Fo_X ._ . ___ ... . .:--;~gnla l'hi _I 'l.lt't· l-ti\':.!l...... . .. PlwtngTa·phh• Etl_itlll' Bu,illt''\ ~luil\ .\ld\lllt· ~lt~:-.!-l.:'llgL'I. }Ia\ itl ltu:-.t.·HIJlum, .\ta! '111 l'J,!IIItl SCENE The Faculty Insult by Shaw Cesar Saerching-er, the National Broadcasting Company's ihteraa- tional new;:; commentator, was tell- ing of his correspondence on pos- tal cards with George Bera-ard P.haw at the Interaational Rela- . tions Club meeting in the Langsam home. M1 \· Fcx turned to her husband and said: '\Tell them ab0ut your postal card correspondence with ghaw, Dick.\ Dr. Fox related h0w he tried ta get Shaw to udd·ress American col- CoJtJ Huard ~~~~ ll.lld l·~~~tl,\, St.lult-y .lileeu ... \ll.Jt:ll 1\.tuiJ.i•l;., t;t•oJ'gt· .\I_Hiclh·IIJI-- .• \l}~t·l'~ !\.t.IJh~•lllt' .~;~t:J .\•[t-J:..t>l. .fat•Jh t;c.ld~(l•llt', )~uti:-. ha·ulrnall, :-;tla~ ~lL'lll­ hat·t. .JtJllll .\·la..;n!L .• h~:--t·\111 )lannon, Th.nna.-, Hu1Nna11. Phutog·ruphit• Boartl Le\ll Jtwutk-oll, Jt:romc \\'ciH- Ht·JI• ·•-li;}t4.. lege students at EngUsh universi- - cc~~- ties. Shaw. then passiag thr0ugh . his \Hello you boobs\ stage, wrote ~------------------··-------------------------- ... I I ! The Corn Is Green i t . I -----------·----------------------------------·\ DR.AMA On the 'ScJ.•epn Two of Holly- wood'::J pi·ettiest glamour boys a·re getting themselves mussed up very carefuHy this weelt at our two first run cinema sanctuaries. t With this issue, The Concordiensis suspends publication until Friday, March 27> the Pt·esident a strong refusal on a postal card, Jt's Tyrone \Chesty\ Power who played Benjamin Blake in \Son of Fury\ at Pvoctor's fo1· the weekend. Adapt·ed f.rom .the Edi:son Marshall book, the canned version is an about Ben who sails to the South Seas in quest of a fortune with which he is able to claim his bi-r-th right. Said birth right making him heir to the BlB!ke estate, which his cruel uncle has gotten hold of. It's a hackneyed plot, and ·bound to re- mind you of about half a dozen others, the most O'bvious being \An- thony Adverse\ \The Count of Monte Cristo\ and \Mutiny on the Bounty\. Ge01ge Sanders plays the uncle and has a wonderful time beating up our hero. Frances Far- mer and Gene Tierney are around as Tyrone's bosom pals, and the re:;t of the cast is large and elab- orate. lord who runs his domain with clock-Hire precision. Things are working out fine until he meet.s and falls fm· Lana Turner, and from then on of course, his days are numbered. The film is sure to give you an entertaining ti·me, al- though a J.ittle quickening of the plot's tempo wo11ld have helped. Robert plays the Kelvinator gang- ster with scowl and rumpleQ. hair, .and as for luscious Lana, we have been a yearner for Turner from way back, and are firmly convinced that ·she can do no wrong. How- eve!·, it's Van HefJ.i.n who unsteadily comes on the screen a:.s Eager's boozy, literate right hand man, and very steadily steals all his scenes. All he said was: \INa No, .or should I say Nope.\ MUSIC •44 AND '45 COME THROUGH The Students Bugle Call The Cr!'w Cuts-For tho::e who like thek music free from com- merce, we should like to recom- mend Saul \Little Jazz\ Meisel's program on U. B. S. Saul spins some of the most 0utstanding jazz records that have ever been waxed, and may -be heard every Monday and Wednesday night from seven- thirty to seven. forty-five. If you have any requests in the realm of \le jazz hot\ drop him a line .and your wishes wHl not go unheeded. The success of the joint Sophomore-Fresh- man Dance last Saturday night led mo1·e than one person who attended to t·emark, \Why don't we have more of this type of thing·'!\ We echo this que:otion which, as far back ag we can l'emembet·, has always been asked about small, informal dances. Who can tell what effect on student morale a series o.f such dances as these might have, particularly Go1 don Rust is soon to go into during the summer and the following· fa-ll'? the Army and the boys in Oldgym It's something- to think about. Hal'! aren't letting him forget it. d The other day they 1•ecorded a At any rate, congnttulations are i·H or er bugle cal\l and put the l'ecord on fol' both classes, and to co-chairmeN. Klal'- Rust's 1·ecord player. Then at 6 a.m. 111< 'tn, '· 1 • 1 , >tnd } nde1·son, '-!G, for falling- into they set it going full blast. t t - :;. -- Rust jumped out of bed, un- the scheme of things by cooperatiNg with afraid and ready to serve his coun- each other when the circumstances of a try, sal·uted --and turned the record off. shol'tened year made individual efforts im- Cave In possiule. There\s nothing like steady ne1ves. Hank Gorsky needed them last week when, driving toward NO!\th College he had the road colla·pse unde1· him. It's Robe1t \Trigger-:\fan\ Taykn· who plays Johnny Eager in \John- ny Eager\ at the State. The story is about a cool, calculating gang tainly Le in bed but herP we work the usual 13 hours a d:1y. -s. G. WAKE UP, AMERICA-IT·s LATE! The front wheels were buried up to the hub caps in a sea of muddy water. Slightly bewildered I Gorsky had thought the wheels had fallen off) he inspected the damage, called the office and a tow truck 1 the college paid for the towJ and sat dow11 to bemoan his fate. Repairs to the car amounted \Nothing much has happened lately. We've taken up hand gl'e- nades and there's really a trick ·to throwing them right. They're not thrown like a ·baseball, you know, more of a shot putter's push is used. We also were sent through a gas chamber so as to accustom us ta our masks. They're really won- derful things. hilly, rocky terrain upon which we have .to hurl ourselves and crawl, with our face pressed into the mud, for hundreds of feel. Then we have to dig fox holes from a prone po- sition which it tough work. There's one thing certain though-it does get one in condition. I'm as hard ·as a rock and really feel strong. This battalion is much tougher than the others because of its rep- utation. The 29th has won the com- petitive prize for the past two training periods and the officers 'don't want to lose out now. The following editorial is reprinted from the New York ''World Telegr-am.'' In print- ing it, we do not wish to violate our policy of abstaining from comment on world af- fairs, but we do so because we feel it is a piece of writing that should be put before everyone, Union College students included. An editorial of parallel content in particular refer·ence to the college, was carried in these columns recently under the title, \How Long 'Til Reveille.'' The \World Telegram\ piece follows: The nation needs to awaken to the full gravity of the peril that confronts it. It needs to appreciate how badly we have been defeated in three months of war. It needs to understand that it is possiiJle for the United Nations and the United States to lose this war and suffer the fate of France -and that this possibility may become a probability if the present tide does not change. It needs to realize that there is grave chance of the Japanese pushing through In- dia and the Germans driving throug-h the Near East, to join their armies and resources in an almost unbeatable combination. It needs to get away, once and fot· all, from the comforting feeling that while we may lose at the start we are bound to win in the end. Only when fully mvare of existing perils will the United States do its utmost. Pray God that awareness will not come too late, as it did in France! Production Director Donald Nelson appeals fot· vastly increased industrial output on a 24-hour, seven-day basis-168 hours a week. l\Iaximum production, in short. Can we g-et it? Not on the present basis-not under the psychology of recent years. Not until we quit thinking in terms of less work for more money. Not while there is greater concern about overtime pay than overtime production. Not while farmer politicians are more in- terested in higher prices than raising- more essentials. Not while government bureaus-cl'eated to meet a depression emergency that is ended- continue to grab for themselves money need- ed for armaments. Not while an army of federal press agents clamors to promote and perpetuate activities that have no present need of value. Not while Congressmen try to put over useless canals and river schemes and take up the time of the defense officials clamoring for factories and contracts as if war were a great gravy train. Not \Vhile WPA, despite a shortage of labor, seeks to carry on projects which it doesn't have the men to perform o1· the need to $2. uwe're for us. it for DENTISTRY The college's comment: glad you found the leak We've been looking for weeks.\ for performing. A L'f Not while CCC and NYA stretch greedy ~'::! f~l:wing Jetter was receiv- hands for funds to pampe1· young men who ed on. the campus ft·om \Red\ \I would like to advise you a bit on the Army. By all means try to join something you like. The clraft a:rrny is unquestionably the most ignom,inious branch of the service, but it is also the hardest worked. For instance, last Saturday we walked li miles from 7:30 a.m. until 11:30. Then we ate and start- ing at 1:30 p.m. we skirmished un- til 5:45. They invaribly pick muddy, The field of dentistry today of- fers to college students an attra<'- tivs career. It provides a worthy intellectual c·.hallenge, a life of pm- fessior.al service with satisfactory income, and an opportunity for re- search and teuching in th.is diviHion of medical science and art. b · th . d f , • th . , Killian '42, former President of oug-ht to e Ill e anne Olces Ol e ~al the Student Council and Student plants. Body. Wrote \Red\: \Tranks for Not while strikes hamper war 1H'Oduction, the Concordy. They really help to cut the lonesomeness down here despite a solemn promise that they would 'Camp Croft>. Is your car ready for cooler weather? The L'niversity of Penn~ylvania ha>' prepared more than six thuus- an<l graduates who are orrupylng pm>itions of importance in the pro- fession throughout the world. Its course of instruction i:< of the high- est order. \We had several more shots the stop. other day and we've all been feel- Not while the life-and-death need for un- ing poor ever since. If I felt like Are you going to fol- low the team? intermpted production is used to put over the closed shop. as a weapon th1s at school or at home I'd cer- Not while double time is demanded for Sunday work which is only part of a --10-hour week. Not while a man can't be employed on an a1·my project or in a wa1· pla~at until he pays $20 to $50 or more to a labor racketeer. Not while criminal gangs control employ- ment and allocation of men to work on the N ormandie and the other ships along- New York's vast waterfl'Ont. Not while fifth columnists are pampered and enemy aliens move freely in defense areas. Not while the gl'im job of preparing om· home communities against air raids and sabotage is gummed up with a lot of high- falutin, boon-doggling, social service activity. Not while pressure blocs clamor for higher IJenefits, bounties and pensions. We will not g-et maximum production, in short, unless, first, we fully realize om· awful peril; and, second, get over the gimmes of recent years. Gimme shorter hours, gimme higher wages, gimme bigger profits, gimme more overtime, gimme less work, gimme more pensions, gimme greater crop benefits, gim- me more appropriations and patronag·e, giro- me plants for my Congressional district, giro- me fees and dues to work for Uncle Sam, g-imme ham 'n' eggs, gimme share-the- wealth, gimme $30 every Thursday. France had the gimmes, too-had them till the Germans were close to Paris. Then everybody went frantically to work-too late. France has no gimmes today-except giro- me food for my bauy, gimme a place to lay my head, gimme death. Get your car in shape at Anyone interested in this profes- sion as a life work is invite<! tu apply for further informa lion to ThE> Dean of the School of Dentistr~· Bellevue Quality Bakery BEEKMAN'S 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6242 601 UNION ST. TJniversity of Pennsylvania, BREAD- ROLLS- PASTRY Mobilgas - Mobilubrication Mobil oil 40th and Spruce Streets, Philadelphia, Pa. G·E timjJ/6 hew.s M01£CtJ 1£S MAR.Cffl W ITH the increasing use of plastics and of artificial silk and ruhher in defense activities, the structural qualities oi the molecules that make up these materials is all-important to the scientists who are doing the research work. Dr. Raymond l\1. Fuoss, oi the General Electric Research Laboratory, has found that some molecules wiggle like worms when an alternating electric field is applied to them. Such molecules are electrically lop- sided, and when in an electric field they tend to line up, just as compass needles line up with the magnetic field of the earth. electrical field, materials of a wide variety of properties may be expected as a result of these researches. NOT FOR WILLI£- T HE General Electric Company IS proud of the variety of services it renders its customers. Nevertheless, com- pany oflicinls were surprised hy one recent request from n woman who had seen a G-E advertisement in a magazine. The illustration in the advertisement con- tained a picture oi a young boy. The woman also had a boy, and her boy looked very much like the boy in the photograph. ANOTHER CLASS OF '44 From this tendencr of the molecules to move to and fro in an electric field, scien- tists are able to determine how the various molecules are built. \With this information, new molecules can be de~igned to meet specific needs. Since artificial silk nnd rubber and many plastics are composed of these worm-like molecules which react in an :\lother and son had only recently moved to ;-,;ew York, Since then, she had taken her son to a number of different barbers, but none of them had produced a haircut that suited her. And so, in desperation, she wrote to Genera 1 Electric to find where the boy i11 the advertisement had his hair cut. It was just the type oi cut she had vainly tried to get. The colleg-e's decision to admit a new class next June carries a good many implications beyond the first impressions one gains. Not only does it spell the almost certain disap- pea1·ance of class lines, but is the signal for a good deal of planning on the part of the fra- ternities. It will be interesting to note the response to this latest offer by the college. GENERAL fj ELECTR!~ D r~ c tha GlOV mu nig 24-~ ing con 'I car nev at the: the eve int( of fOVI Del wit nne the per 'I in cau \Vii ren anc an{ net ma: erl! gar: sec· I' qua latE sl'o' 'rh< Chi low me: hef ran Bet wh: ner Bol No· poi c fim cla.i the 27-~ I COJ Col ~- 1 I I I I l I I I I I I I I '-- - L

... I I I I , with are and days ·e to al- the hair, need and es. who jazz you of -and ~de d. G. we po- does ~ard g. rep- two of- thy ory re- nia US- ing Its 1ia, Delta Chis Defeat To Win Basketball SPORTS Beta-s 24-21 C ha mp~i:onship Clinging desperately to a 1ead~-- ----- ------ ---------- that was slowly being whittled down, Delta Chi won the intra- • INTRAMURAL STANDINGS mural basketball championship last MARCH 11, 1942 night by downing Beta Theta Pi· Former 24-21, in ·one of the most hair-rais- · Position ing finishes witnessed i·n intramural 1. Delta Upsilon .... 765.476 1 competition in the last few years. 2. Kappa N1:1 ........ 7J:6.295 4 The Delta Chis grabbed the lead 3. Phi Gamma Delta 641.762 3 curly in the first q1:1a·rter and were 4. Psi Upsilon ....... 591.531 2 never headed. They held a 17-61ead · 5. Ptti Sigma Delta .. 585.088 7 at half-time und it seemed that 6. Kappa Sigma ..... 501.913 9 they would have an easy time for 7. Alpha Delta Phi .. 501.202 6 the remainder· of the game. How- 8. Beta Theta Pi .... 485.109 13 ever·, the Betas' offense was set·· 9. Delta 'Chi ......... 474.214 16 into motion right at the beginning 10. Sigma Chi ........ 474.111 8 of the third quarter and they nar- 11. Delta Phi ........ 432.408 11 rowed the lead to eigt.t points. The 12. Kappa Alpha ..... 417 988 12 Delta Chis were u-nable to connect 13. Chi Psi ........... 408.711 5 witll tllei'l' shots in the meantime 14. Phi Sigma Kappa. 400.233 14 and lead by a scare of 21-13 when· 15. Sig-ma Phi ....... 397.597 15 the whistle bl·ew at the end of the 16. Phi Delta Theta ... 326.262 10 period. 17. Alpha Phi Delta .. 282.491 18 The Betas put on the pressure 18. Theta Delta Chi .. 246.584 17 in the final quarter and slowly 19. South College .... 209.742 21 cat~ght up with the Delta Chis. • 20. Neutrals ......... 191.902 19 With four minutes of ·playing time 21. North College .... 174.741 20 remaining, the score was 23-17, ------------ ------ and with slightly more than one Sw-im,mers Submerned and one-half mi-nutes to go, they; ~ netted two more field goals to By Rochester 57-18 make the score 23-21. Doug Sling- erland sank a free shot to put .the The varsity swimming team game on ice at 24-21 with only ten closed its season agai.nst Roches- seconds remaining. ter's natators last Saturday and No clue was given. in the first took a 57-18 dunking. This was the quarter as tc what might happen first meet since the Trinity \inci- later, for the pace that was set was dent\ and gives the team a season's sl,ower than Bing Crosby'~ horses. record of three losses, no wins, and 'Phe period ende~ with the Delta a cancellation. Chis leading 4-2. Early in the fol- Rochester had little difficulty in lowing period they picked up mo- beating the floating Dutchmen, mentum and ran up a 12-2 •lead gaining first place in each event. hefore the Betas could find the Duck Sokolowski placed second in range for their second basket. The the 50 yard swim and in the 150 Betas resorted to long passes y_a_J_'d_b_ac_k_s_t_r_ok_e~() Ila_c_e_t~e__G_a_r_ne~ which were intercepted by the win- ners and turned into field goals. Bob Hallenbeck led the winning Nott Street aggregation with ten points. On Monday evening in the semi- finals of the playoffs the Betas out- classed Phi Sigma Delta 38-26 and the Delta Chis nosed out Kappa Nu 27-22. Adamzevitch, c ..... . HaHenbeck, rg , . , ... . Slingerland, lg- ...... . Heywood, lg ........ . Totals ...... . Beta Theta Pi- Goodrich, rf ........ . Galuszka, rf ........ . Reilly,! f ........... . Hill, c ............. . DPlta Chi- G F P 1 0 2 Quigley, rg ........ . Coppola, rf .... · · · · · · · 1 2 4 Forrest, lg .......... . ~C_'=:o---=:l_e=:-y=:-,=:-=:l_f:==:::=_:=:-·=·-·~-·=·=·=· ·=·=·=·======ri Totals ........... . 1 0 4 2 1 1 1 1 9 6 G F 3 0 2 0 2 0 1 1 1 0 1 0 10 1 PHONE 4-5614 ltlttrested in S clunatady Interested in UNION z 10 3 3 24 p 6 4 4 3 z 2 21 Everything Electrical MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Strut Jeweler JAS. F. BURNS 166 JAY STREET ELECTRICAL WORKS Watch and Jt:welry Repairin{l a Spuialty 206 Clinton St. Schenectady PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS Call Ball and Ball Will Call Shoe ·. · -... . · Re- b.·~--.~·z~.--·_e __ ~n.~,.-.-• _-. __ ,,(~_ -.··:t ... -.'· 1).:::---:- Cleanf't ·: . ·~- ·. \...-.. .·. & Dyer< PHONE 6-3456 r----~----------~·-----------~------------------, i ICE CREAM I I I I l I I I I I One gallon of the very best Ice Cream, any flavor. Square package, easy to slice. $1.35 Delivered - Simply Phone 6·1248 f Bellevue Dairy L_ _____________________________________________ _ Sale of OKEH and DECCA Popular Records Regular $.37 Special $.29 217 State Street-Schenectady, New York Union~s Premier Bowler Cameraman N~rm Fox caught Vic Daneski, sh~wn above, just as he was about to rar' back and let the ball go flying down the alley. Union's p~·emiPr bowlPI', a member of the South College team avemged 181 this year and 190 last year. His high single is 248, made last year, and his high tl'iple, also made a year ago, is 686. Despite his lower average this year, he was able to hang up a respectable 221 single and 581 triple. A R R 0 w Anything you need? Call GUERRA;S PHARMACY \WE DELIVER\ Simply Phone 6-9419 1! 600 Union St. Let Us Serve You With the Finest MILK, CREAM. ICE CREAM and Other Dairy Products CLOVERLAND CREAMERY 919 STATE ST. PHONE 6-8104 lJhe man who went to 90 COLLEGES A recent survey of 90 campuses disclosed that 71.7% of all college men like Arrow Shirts best of all. ARROW ow:s its great ~opularity to its good-lookmg collars, Its fine fabrics (which are guaranteed not to shrink over l%), its \.:\Iitoga ., figure-fit, its anchorecl lmttons-and so on. We've got a hig selection of Arrows. Come in and see Hitt, Hull, Gordon, and Sussex today. NUSBAU·· .. 'S 447·451 s~~g ~ A R R 0 w ----------A R R 0 W ---------\\ weoNEsoAv. MARcH 11. 1942 Wqt Qtnurnr~ttu.ai!l Freshman Rule Being Waived In lnterco;lle.giate Circles NEW·YORK, March 5 '<.'Pl The~---------------­ rnove to permit freshmen to partici- pate in varsity sports is rapidly spreading over the country with several major conferences due to settle the .problem at spring meet- ings. Athletic official,; p0i-n ted out to- day that the lifhting of the bars against first-year men is in line with the stepped-up accademic pi'O- grams instigated by many of the nation's leading schools and a•lsa will go a long way toward filling the ranks of varsity fl'layet·s de- pleted by the war. Generaly speaking, thP smaller schools were _the first to appt·ove the plaring of freshmen on varsity teams but four members of the Ivy league · - Da-rtmouth, Harvard, Yale and Princeton - - resc-inded their rules shortly after the United States entered the war. Since then they have beea joined by another of the circuit's members, Cornell, and such r·anking eastPrn universi- ties as Georgetown, Boston College, Holy Cross, Brown, ·Rhode Island State, Wesleyan, Carnegie Tech, Lafayette and Fordham. The Western Conference has the subject up for discussion this week. The Pacific Coast Conference will · take action at its spring meeting in Pat·tland, March 23, with the ma- jor independent west coast schools due to adhere to whatever rule is passed by the circuit. The Cal-ifor- nia College Athletic Association, an , organization of smaller schools, a:!- IDEAL BARBER SHOP Ideal Barber Service at no extra cost 448 State Street PHONE 4-7136 n•Ftdy has dropped the frosh rule, while the Southern California Con- ference will consider it shortly. The Southern Conference has twice votPd down the matter but Footba'll Coach Carl Voyles of Wil- liam and Mary said today he planned to ask permission to play frPshmen nPxt fall against Dart- mouth, Harvard, Navy and Okla- homa. The Southerea;;·tern Confer- Pnce has the mattPr on the agenda for its mePling thi$ month with such leaders a~ Coach J·ohn Barn- hiH of Tennessee pred·icting the circuit would okay the use of f-resh- men. The S.I.A.A., with some 30 membet·s, has dropped the rule. The Ohio Conference meets March 31 to consider the question for its 20 members with large non-confer- en.ce schools- expected to follow the circuit's policy, No major school in the south- west or· Rocky :\1ountain areas has dropped the freshman rule, al- though the Big Seven may consider ·it at its May meeting. Dwke, a membet· uf the Missouri Val!Py Conference, plans to aban- don the freshman rule next fall. For QUICK Reliable and Excellent Laundering call the PARK LAUNDRY I 05 Clinton St. Ph. 4-9011 t!\rrow white is right! From sleeping through class to dating a blonde, an Arrow white shirt is correct f~r every ~ceasion. Arrow Hitt: a fine lustrous broadcloth with non· wilt, starchless Aroset rollar. Arrow Hull: long-pointed collar and that new low slope make Hull a honey for comfort! An·ow Gonion: oxford cloth and button-down col· lar make Gordon everyone's favorite. Arrorv SussPx: low, wide, and handsome - in fancy patterns, too. All are Mitoga tailored and Sanforized labeled (fabric shrinkage less than I '7c l • Begin your col· lection of Arrow whites today!

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1942 CURRICULAR 4 Fred Wyatt U·rges Students To Visit Alumni Gatherings GO CLIMB A TREE DEPT. . I SPORTS Admissions Director Says Graduates Will Welcome Sub-Freshmen \I should· Ml'Ongly mgc that students attend alumni meetings, formal or i-nformal. dming the ci!Jl ing vacation next week,\ Ft·cd e1 ick A. Wyatt, Director of Ad- n.is~ions said in a recent lettN' to The Concordiensis. \There will undoubtedly bP alumni g-atherings of some sort in a good many di~tricts,\ Mr. Wyatt said. \l hope that wherever it is possible students will attend and bt ing sub- fi·eshman guests with them. I know they wil'l be most welcome.\ Mr. Wyatt pointed out that there a1·e now more than 350 alumni serving as special representatives of the collf'gP in thPII rP~JH'C\ti\'P districts. \\''het her or not t hpre happPn to bP alumni nlPPtings in a community, undPrgraduatP~ and sub-frf'shmPn alik£• will be wPlconw fc.r talks with th<>st• mPn. hP !\aid Alumni lntt>rt>st As is always lite case at alumni gatherings, the graduates will be vitaHy mtel ested m eve! ytlung pu- t&ining to the college, the letter went on. The L'nion studPnts can rf'port on changes in thP college, cc ndit ions as th<'Y now stand, and th£' outlook for the futul P. Tlwy wiH also haV<' an \I'P<ll tumty to mak£' a report on per~onal progTes~ hH£', ~h. \\'ya'\t said. \In turn,\ the Directm of Ad- missions vnotP. \thP 1·Ppt <'~Pnta tivr s will bf' in a position to givP infor- mation on pt·ospective :;tudPnts fron, that arf'a.\ A complete and up-to-date list of alumni reprPsPntati\.'Ps and theit· addresse:,; is availa·ble at thP Ad- missions Office, hE' said. To the Editor of ThE' Concordiensis, Sir: I wan.( to thank you ve1·y much for the .article that was printed about the Mountebanks in the last issu» of The Concordiensis. The fea.t ~GU credited me with must ma.]{e every engineer in school en- vious. However, since I don't want any eredit for something I haven't done I would like to clarify the article for you and the rest of the :;chou!. In reality all that wa~ done was the widening and lowering of the proscenium. The stage being that on which the acting is done, where- as the procenium is the opening through which the a.udit>nce views the action on the stag£' {sic). The total effect was only that of mak- ing thE' stage appear wider. It would :be quite an accomplishment to make it appear wider and nai·- rower at the same time. I should think that in assigning men to cover certain activities you would choose ment who understood ~onJPthing of what they ·were wl'it- lllg and not JUSt h•t anyone write 1t. Of course it may :be true that tlwn· is no on<> on the ,;taff a·t pres· c•nt who luww,; n•1 ~ much about the> tlwatn·. In that case I believe that a man ,;ufficiently interested in his work would makC' it a point to find out what h£' could about the topic he was writing about. T1 ue, The Concotdiensis is a stu- dent activitiy, but, as such, it has a >pecial distinction in that, as fa.r Pleasant Valley Meat Market House of Sunshine Meat Products Buy Defense Bonds and Stamps I! 586-592 Broadway PHONE 4-3181-2-3-4 WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING- ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY co. CORNER ST A.TE and CENTER STREETS You trust its quality The taste of ice-cold Coca-Cola is pleasantly exciting ••• with no after-taste. It brings a feeling of complete re- freshment ••• all you want and you want if all. AOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY (:OCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY as I know it is the only activity in . which the participants are paid. I.f they ate paid they should turn out a good enough paper to warrant their receiving pay. The last issue of The Concordiensis was certainly not of sufficient caliber. The last issue was one of the worst that I have seen in my four years here. There was so little writing· to be done and yet it was so poorly done. Handball (Final StandingsJ Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100.0 Phi Sigma Delta . . . . . . . 80.5 Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . 5!.5 Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . M.5 Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . '18.') Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . !~.0 Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . 48.0 Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41.5 Df!lta Phi ... , . . . . . . . . . . 22.f Pni Sigma Kappa 0.5 * * * fiigma Phi ................ . Kappa Alpha ............. . Phi Delta Theta ........... . Phi Gamma Delta ......... . ,\Jpha Delta Phi ........... . Phi Sigma Kappa .......... . * * * 57.4 54.3 53.3 53.3 51.4 48.0 J. Harold Wittner, Director of Athletics, has announced the sUt and aUa swimming awards. Recip- ients of the sUt are Captain Hal sldK, Howie Parsons, Len Benja- The ski team placed second in the annual Co1·nell Ski meet held last wee]{end. The Cornell A team linished fi1·st and their B team third. Clarkson and Colgate were among the other competing col- leges. Tom Hanigan Jed the Garnet ,!;elandesprunge by placing second in the slalom and seventh in the downhill. Rex Moon, Jim Pinkston, Bob Nicoll, a-nd Bob Haig also competed. I am not too interested in writing and :;10 T try to avoid It. lsicl I have been of some use to the Mounteban·ks as a student pa.rtici- pant nnd ~o T ~tiC'k to that. I havf.' never been paid for my work in the I Hendrickson, Wladyslaw Sokolow• B ,• ( r• 1 S ..r• I min, Bob Reed, Art LaRoche, OW mg rrna . tanumgs George Anderson, Bill Sears, Man- * * * Duxin~ and wn:::;tlur~ parnngs will be posted on the ·bulletin board of the gymnasium on Ma1·ch 23. Bouts will probably begin on March 24. Mounteban]{S as a student partici- Delta Upsilon · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · pant. The members of our various Ke1:1tra.Is · · · · · · · · · · · · · · athletic teams are not paid, or the ·South CoJ.Jeg.e · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · members of our other activities .. Sigma Chi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Personally I would !i!{e to hear Phi Upsilon · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · what the other students here think Theta Delta Chi · · · · · · · · · · · · about the matter of monetary re- Phi Sig-ma Delta · · · · · · · · · · · · muneration to a student organiza- Alpha Phi Delta · · · · · · · · · · · · tion, especially in view of the .poor Kappa Sigma · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · manner in which that o1·ganizat.ion Delta Chi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · lOO 0 ager W-arren Perldns, and man- 88'6 ager-elect Bill Guerry. Sam Trull, 88 ' 6 Dave Tilly, and Ted Gray were 86 : 6 each awatded an aUa. is conducting their rsicl activity. Kappa Nu · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Abraham Bakal Delta Phi · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 Lost 83.3 77.1 7il.7 65.7 62.8 62.8 59.9 59.9 CLEANERS AND TAILORS 114 State St. UNITED (Have Yom· Agent Call Us) SHOE REBUILDERS Phone 4-5(i76 --- -~- A Bulovu wrist watcu with a Drown wrist band was lost ypster·- day aftprnoon between 1:0.0 and 1:30. Finder is requested to r·etu1·n i it to Spencer Egglefield '45, at the · Phi Delta Theta house. 1 ': • •.•••• ,. llllllt. ·~~·· ••• , ••••• ill II II. u, •• •·• •••••••••••••• •.; MODERN DI:NE:R 5 C'REAM-CREST 5 • • Cor. ALBANY and VEEDER • • • • • • • • • • • • --·. I • = For \Better Milk\ Try Us Our Supply Comes from the Finest Dairy Farms Direct to Our Pll!lllt and Processed in Modern Stainless Steel Equipment YOU'LL LIKE THE FLAVOR LANSING'S DAIRY 215 N. Tenbroecl< St., Scotia, :N. Y. Phone 6-7758 There's satisfaction in knowing that the 6%¢ revenue tax you pay on every pack of twenty cigarettes is doing its bit for Uncle Sam Every time you buy Chesterfields you get the satisfaction of a smoke that's definitely MILDER, far COOLER and BETTER-TASTING. Chesterfield's superior blend of the world's best cigarette tobaccos will give you more smoking pleasure than you ever had before. Try a pack of Chesterfields today. .. ····· • • • • • • • • ~ . E Vit·am:in D Milk 5 • • • • • Supplies that needed energy for the • • • • coming winter months. • • • • • :l GENERAL ICE CREAM CORP. : • • • F s . II • or ervrce Phone 4-3121 • • • ~-·······································~·····~ Col. VIVIAN J. OLSEN, Cadet MARIE HOFFMAN of the Wo- men's Defense Cadets of America. This and simi- lar organizations send millions of.Milder, Better- Tasting Chesterfields to the men in uniform. mighty important in this man's army. New recruit or old-timer ..• they alllike.the ciga- rette that satisfies. WILLIAM TRACY and ELYSE KNOX (a Chesterfield girl), star· ring in Hal Roach's comedy hit HAY FOOT. CopYTI8ht 1942, liGGETT & Mr£P.S Tou~cco Co_, Our movie stars are doing a grand.job selling defense bonds and entertaining our soldiers. Many of them choose Chester- field to send to men in uniform. Vc F A 1' lun pr~ an• ne£ anJ bee he fa! ~ fes at 192 en1 tio Sci a In! sh; in Pa ] no· wiJ all alt t>ni wi' tht fm ist COl sp• flll COl te< bo1 ci~ ph gr: fm m! Ia! flu inc M: to an tee Bi St: als of de Fr an co· J. a izE tri hi: of sc' re: er: 1 , j pi! fr• lo• da ho th te: tic iz~ re Ie: ti~ Tt th pJ, St WI pr ha ln ar dt m ta by \b th 19 he fo Si it: he re at OJ lit ca

in col- the a·lsn 23. ••.; • • II • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • II • • • • • • • II II • • 8!!1~ College Welcomes Sub-Freshmen As GUests • ONE HUNDREDTH TOWN MEETING ON SUNDAY StS UBS PROGRAM SCHEDULE EXPANDED Vol. LXV. No. 46 PI -I'•'\'ES·. Editorial 4·0133 \'\' - Press 4·4141 The Student Newspaper of Union College SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRI,DAY, MARCH 27, 1942 Price Sc FOX NAMES OHIO MAN IAibe~t Spalding Fourteen Men Eleded To Membership AH~,lJ1/i~!~EERING HEAD In fmal Con~ert In National Honorary Fraternities To Teach Berg Courses, I Engi:neering Head At Chapel Tonight ------------------~ Supervise G. E. Lectures I K AI h s· x· A • M b Election to Sigma Xi Reception a:t appa P a - tgma I SSOCiafe em ers Harold Whitney Bibber, of Co- To Follow Performance And Phi Beta Kappa lumbus, Ohio, has been appointed professor of electrical engineering By American Violinist Is Won by 3 Seniors and head of the division of engi- neering, President Dixon Ryan Fox announced today. The a~pointment : becomes Pffective on August 1 and 1 he will begin teaching with the ' fall semester, on Sept. 8. Mr. Bibber, who has been a pro- fessor of electil.lcal engineering at Ohio State University since 1932, was for several years on the engineering staff of the Interna- tional General Electric Co., both in Schenectady and in J·apan. He is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. and later studied at .Boston University and in France a:t the universities of Paris and Besancon. President Fox stated in his an- nouncement that Professor Bibber will have administrative charge of all engineering at Union College, although for some time the civil engineering course, which in 1945 will celebrate its centennial, and the electrical engineering course, I founded in 1895, have been admin- istered separately. The College is combining the administrative re- sponsibilities because much of the fundamental work in the two courses is common, and some teachers direct upper-lass work in both fields. Diversified Studies Professor Bibber, besides spe- cializing in electrical engineering, physics and mathematics, took graduate studies in economics and foreign languages. He has com- mand of the principal European languages, and speaks Japanese fluently. His professional writings include two books, \Synchronous Machines\ and \An Introduction to Alternating Current Machinery,\ and many articles published in technical journals. Prior to 1932 when Professor Bibber began teaching at Ohio State University, he had taught also at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Ecole Centrale des Arts et Manufactures, Paris, France, and as a laboratory assist- ant at Harvard University. At Union, in addition to certain • courses taught by the late Ernst J. Berg, Professor Bibber will offer a new course entitled. \The Organ- ization and Operation of the Elec- trical Industry.\ Also, as a part of his work, he will supervise a series I of special lectures to be given by scientists and executives from the I research laboratories of the Gen- eral Electric Company. President's Greeting To 200 Sub-Freshmen Albert Spalding, America's fore- most violinist, wiH appear this evening at 8:30 in Memorial Cha~el in the finale of ·the Union College Concert Series, conducted dm•ing the past winter for the benefit of the college scholarship fund. A rapacity audience. ty~ical of those in a:ttenda:nce at the first two pres- entations, is expected to hear Mr . Spalding this evening. The concert, last in the series which has brought Helen Jepson and Paul Robeson to Memorial Chapel in pt·evious appearances, will probably not be attended by more than a handful of Sub-Fresh- . man Week-end guests, due to the scarcity of availablt:> tickets, a con- di.Uon tha-t has lasted since early fall when the tickets, aH reserved, went on sale. Immediately following the con- cert this evening, students and faculty are invited to a reception in the visiting artist's honor, as guests of the Kappa Alpha So- ciety. The Kappa .Alpha lodge will be the scene of the reception, to which, according to -Raymond E. He1 e's the official greeting Aldrich '42, in charge of the af- from Union College to approxi- fair, \everyone is invited.\ rnately 200 guests from prepara- tory schools all over the coun- Artist's Life try as written for The Con- Probably the best known of all cordiensis by President Dixon American - born instrumentalists, Ryan Fox. The message of we!- Spalding comes here this evening come follows: in the midst of a soldout tour of \Young men inquiring of des- more than 60 concerts with addi- tiny-in war time! That is the tiona! appearances with most of meaning of the visit of more the leading orchestras, including than 200 'sub-freshmen,\ which the New York Philharmonic Sym- we so heartily welcome this phany, Boston Symphony and the week-end. We believe that you Philadelphia Symphony. are wholly right in your faith A member of the family that is that this country will need you at present widely known as man- as educated men. This old col- ufacturers of sporting goods, Spald- Jege, rich in experience and ing was born in Chicago, where he stimulating tradition, and yet began taking violin lessons, at the senstitive to changing public age of seven. During the course of needs, is ett:>rnally ready to build his training, he studied with fa- its contribution int oselected mous European teachers all over human lives. You may choose the continent. His professional de- to come here or go somewhere but was made in Paris at the Nou- else; but you are right that col- veau Theatre, and his first Ameri- lege education is worth while I can appearance at Carnegie Hall, even though the country is at New York, as soloist with the New war.\ I York Symphony Orchestra, Walter --- I Damrosch, conductor. His first con- B II + . I cert tour of the United .States took U e 1ft place in 1906. The Glee Club records of the Col- During the past summer, Mr. l<'ge Mt:>dley arriv('d at th(' Coll('gP 1 Spalding was a brilliant performer Bookstore at noon today and will I at the Berkshire Music Festival at bt• available immediately. Due to the Stockbridge, Mass., and made his limited supply, only one record wml annual appearance at the Lewisohn he sold to any one fraternity. I Stadium in New York. Phi Sigma Delta Completes Moving To New Residence at 701 Union Street Phi Sigma Delta Fraternity corn-~-------­ pleted its moving arrangements from 1035 Park Avenue to its new location at 701 Union ·Street yester- day. The obtaining of the new house, which, until yesterday was the location of the Sigma Chi fra- ternity, was the result of negotia- tions with the Sigma Chi organ- ization in New York during spring recess. At that time, a five-year lease was signed by the representa- tives of the two fraternities on Tuesday, March 17. Members of the Sigma Chi group likewise com- pleted their moving to 730 Union Street this week. Improvements in the house, which is naturally suitable to the present fraternity tenant's needs have already begun, ·but no changes in the basic design of the building are under consideration for the duration of this year, at least. The minor renovations to be under- taken are expected to ·be complete by Junior Prom Week-end. A \house warming\ is planned for the week-end following, April 18, l9, 20. Negotiations for the rental of the house lasted for about two weeks following the announcement by Sigma Chi of its decision to change its residence. Sigma Chi's new house, the former Anna B. Case residence, is only a few doors above Phi Sigma Delta now, on the opposite side of Union Street, a little more than a ·block below the campus. I I II New Phi Sigma Delta Home I II I i \The house was highly desirable ·a risk, especially because of these because of the larger living capa- rather doubtful times, but we know city,\ commented Lee Sherman, '42, that we shall be able to put it and Seymour Thickman, '44, house through completely. The alumni president. \Attempts have been and women's auxiliary organiza- made to secure other houses near tions of the fraternity are aiding the campus but the present loca- us in our present needs.\ tion seemed most adaptable to our It was also indicated that any needs.\ confusion in phone numbers of the \Our moving into the new house, two groups resulting from the two although it may put pressure on us changes in address has been guard- pleases us very much,\ the spokes- ed· against. Neither of the two men's statement went on. \We have phone numbers in question has hoped for a long time to better our changed. Phi Sigma Delta's re- location and this was our oppor- mains as 6-0765, and Sigma Chi's tunity of fulfilling our wish. It is as 3-1855, Eight ~f the 12 new associate members of Sigma Xi. Front row, left to right, are William M. Daly, Sanford P. Thompson, and Frank Hasselbacher. Bacl• row, Harry E. Stevens, William R. Kruesi, Robert W. Davison, Charles 0. Bostwick, and Nicholas F. Morelli. Not in the pictw·e were David K. Blake, Robert D. For- rest, Richard H. Marvin, and Solomon Permer. UBS Includes Frequency Modulation Programs In Broadcasting Schedule Inclusion of Frequency Modula-<$>~---------------- tion programs in the broadcasting • s~hedule of 0 UBS, ~ampu~ 0 wired-, Prom Decoratzons Wireless station, begms officially at 8:30 .P· m. ton:ight, Myron Mills, '42, Deatu'l-9n· Ratwotz•c pres1dent, satd early today. The .1. 1 I I C. I \ first night\s FM programs include c [ S h \Information Please,\ \The March 0 Or C erne of Time\ and, at 10:00 p. m., a de- scription of the Joe Louis-Abe Si- mon heavyweight championship fight. UBS has been broadcasting FM programs on test all ·this week. Goodrich Announces . Award of Contract To G. A. Trahan Co. Mills said that reports from listen- Prom Decorations Chairman Earl ers on the campus indicate that Goodrich announced that the G. A. the high quality of Frequency Mod- Trahan Co. Inc. of Cohoes, has ulation broadcasting is faithful-ly I ·been contracted to decorate Alumni reproduced by the wired-wireless Gymnasium for the Junior Prom to system, providing programs which be held April 10. Trahan's firm are superior in technical qualit_y to_, had done the decorations for many those of nearby broadcast statwns. Union dances up until the Glenn G. E. Equipment Miller Prom two years ago. The General Ele(!tric Frequency The main theme of the decora- Modulation translator by means of tions will be based on the national which the FM programs are ·re- colors, red, white and blue; drums ceived at the UBS studios in the will be suspended from the ceiling, Electrical Engineering building was and eagles superimposed on fabrics obtained through the aid of John covering the walls. Sheehan, '25, prog·ram manager of The entire ceiling will be covered FM station WZXOY, the station with blue fabric, and around the whose programs are re-broadcast edge of this ceiling there will be a by UBS. The translator was the three foot strip of red material. gift of the General Electric Com- under this ceiling will be imposed - pany. ten illuminated drums. This latest mov~ on the part of The front of the balcony will be UBS makes available programs draped with red fabric, superim- from the Blue Netw~rk, the NBC i posed with white gauze drapes hav- Network, and, occaswna!ly, from \ ing a blue cutout star at each 1 the Mutual :r:'l'e~work. . rosette. The walls under the bai- UBS also IS u;auguratmg a four-~· cony will be decorated with copen and-a-hal~ to ftve hour. per day blue material which will extend br?adcast.mg; sche~ule tomght. After ·from the northeast and northwest this evenmg s specml programs, the corners of the gymnasium running station will be on the air Monday south and across the low~r end of through Thursday. the gym, excluding the two en- Technical Novelty trances to the dance floor. These .one novel feature of the new will be draped with copen blue arrangement, according to Paul F. fabric. Yergin, '44, who handled the In- At the stallation for UBS, is the use of the entire 4000-foot UBS wiring system no1·th end of the gymnas- ium the walls will be decorated with red material and over this a large golden eagle will .be placed, with white gauze ribbon effects radiating from the claws of .the eagle. The rosettes will have a cut- out blue star. This will cover the entire north end wall under the balcony with the exception of the two entrances to the handball court. These entrances will be draped with white gauze and cut out ·blue stars. The north end wall ef,fect will also cover the front of the balcony at that end, decor- ating it -as one unit to give the de- sired effect. In front of the bal- cony, running from the fabric to the bottom of the 'balcony railing, there will be red staffs with white sails which will be decorated with blue stars. as an F'M antenna. The Intercollegiate Broadcasting System, of which UBS is a mem- ber is now ·malting plans to set up a network of 16 campus stations at member colleges in the East, joined by means of Frequency Modulation stations. Among the new studio programs scheduled on UBS are \You Can't Do Business with Hitler,\ a series of dramatizations based on the book of the same name; \Lest We Forget,\ a dramatic series depict- ing the heritage of the United States; and a program of music by a double quartet from the Glee Club to be broadcast next Wednes- day at 8:15 p. m. See UBS Programs on Page 6 Elections in both of Union's hon- orary scholastic fraternities this week brought associate member- ship in Sigrna Xi to 12 seniors and full membership in Phi Beta Kappa to three seniors. One alumnus was elevated to fuH membership in Sigma Xi, honorary scientific group. The Union Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, whose membe1·ship is open to candidates for a Bachelor of Arts degree, selected Nicholas F . Morelli, William M. Daly, and Philip J. Landry, Jr., at a meet-- ing held yesterday afternoon. Fred- erick L. Bronner, Associate Profes- sor of History, who is president of the Union Phi Beta Kappa Chapter, announced the election of the new members. Allan C. Scott, Assistant Profes- sor of Bio~ogy and secretary of the Union Chapter of Sigma Xi, an- nounced that associate member- ships had been granted the follow- ing seniors: David K. Blake, Charles 0. Bostwick, William M. Daly, Robert W. Davison, Robert D. Forrest, Frank Hasselbacher, William R. Kruesi, Richard H. Marvin, Nicholas F. Morelli, Solo- mon Penner, Harry E. Stevens, and Sanford P. Thompson. Full Sigma Xi membership was awarded <to Walter A. Denison '37, who is now with the Cal'1bide and Chemicals Corporation at South Charleston. V. Va. Sigma Xi does not award full memberships to un- dergraduates. Morelli and Daly were -able to win membership in both the hon- orary societies because they are pre-medical students. This course leads to a B.A. degree and includes the scientific courses required by Sima Xi. Forrest had been named to Phi Beta Kappa earlier this year, with Delphis Goldberg and Clayton Williams. Morelli is from Catskill, and has been on the Dean's List consist- ently. Daly, who is from Schenec- tady, has been on the Dean's List and won his class numerals in freshman track. Landry, the third man named to Phi Beta Kappa, is a memlber of Psi Upsilon and was editor of the Freshman Record. Blake, a resident of Schenectady, is a B.S. in Chemistry student. He won his class numerals in fresh- man lacrosse. Bostwick is also a resident of Schenectady and a can- didate for a B.S. in Chemistry de- gree. Davison, who is from Providence, R. I., is president of the Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity. He won the Fuller Sophomore prize in Chem- istry in 1940, and has taken part in intramural athletics. Forrest is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. He is a mem- ber of Phi Beta Kappa, sang in the college Glee Club, and won his Block \U\ as basketball manager. He left college about two weeks ago to study meteorology in Chi- cago. preparatory to joining the Army Air Corps. Kruesi is a member of Sigma Phi society, president of the Out- ing Club, the Student Committee for Democracy, the A.I.E.E., and a member of the Freshman Camp staff. He has been on the Student Council and was a Campus Chest representative. Frank Hasselbacher, of Bloom- field, N. J., is a member of Kappa Sigma and has taken part in intra- mural wrestling. Marvin, who is a Schenectady resident, was a member of the Stu- dent Council last year and won his sUt for skiing. He is a member of the Student Committee on Edu- cation. Penner is a resident of Sara- toga Springs. He is holder of a general scholarship and has been on the Dean's List consistently. He is a member of Kappa Nu. Stevens is a resident of Schenec- tady and a member of Phi Gamma Delta. Thompson has been a member of the Mountebanks staff. A mem- ber of Sigma Chi, he won the James Henry Turnbull Prize in 1940, -

FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1942 EDITORIAL 2 ~!Pm!Jcr of the .\,;sor·laterl Collegiate Pre~~ aud dts~ tributor of tht! Culh.•gult~ D1gt~t 1-t~;:pt·e~~:tlted fot :'\ntiouul .\d v~t·titiing hy :\nt.iuual AdY<:l\tl.::ling .::lerv- H.:t:, Iu~:., Cvllt:bt:: l'uUlish· ers r:epresernative. 4~0 Editr;rinl Ofl'ice. Silliman Hall. L'nion College. J>uh· llen tion Uffiee, 'rhe Un- l.ctte .Pre.s:-, 3:.n :--itat·e :-;r. Eu tercd I'll t llc !:5~:,heuec~ tally Po:::;t Qtfke as ::;~eM uud Cla:=,:=:- :'dail :\lutt~r. subscription fie a <\OilY ; $3 \ear· delivered auv,vhere in lite Unlteu States. \------------------------0----·----------- .... ---.-.--., i SCENE i 1917-1940 Per.i~od To Be Discussed l.ocation-9 A. M. and 6 P. M. :By Book Revi·ewe.rs <!1nu.rn r t I 6 • L-----------------------------------------------~ JlndiBon Avenu~. ,:-{e\\ Yurl' C1t~·. The Faculty JLL\ A VIS(; IW A I! H Honorary Chancellor Wendl'll Willlde will not deliver .a spee.ch of m1<tional significance at commencement hut will rather say a few W()rds about the honor Union \viii gr•ant to him as Honor- RI'l' Chancellor. That, at least, was the s ubsta.nce of a prediction by Leonard .Lyons, .the .New .York Post's able Broadway columnist Jtohert H. 11 UJ nt•r , .•................... I 't'lta l'p~lluu lllJU:-ol:'- --1M~~~:.!, ••••.•• , •••••• , ••• , ••••••••• ht1itor\inML'hie1 ,Jn,tiu Pl·rhl.t\ill ..........•.. ' .•.. ' ... Kap}la Xu 1 I UUM· --1--t:::n .............. '.. . ' .... '. nu~int·~~ )l.lHlUAl'l' (·1rall~l'r T1:ip1• ......••...•............ !'hi :0:1~1n;t l{appc .. .~. 1i.uu:--' 1M1..;aG ••••••..•••..••••••••••• .'lauag·ing· Etlitur na 1'\ t'l ,J. Vi~ hhunt• ........• ' .............. KapJ,;_t ~ u 11 Otl~t· -- l-73~H .. ' .. ' ..•.........••.•.••.•.•... S}JOl'tS Ed itul' \llltt•r ,J. S(•hulz ................... 1 :--'•:utll ~rtt.un, :\on.~ Ct·lll·gt· li-U~ItitJ .• ,, .•....•...••.••••• ·Ft'at.ure T:llHor ~to)muur Tl'i~·Itnntn .................. 1 1 !11.=-'J~Jua i 1 L·Ita ll''u~~- ti~ll\jtj;; •.•.••.••.....••..•••.• {'lliPf Copy Etlitor :\·urmau \\, l·ox ......... . .:-.~n:u l'l11 l'l.t'!l_ {.,;...,:.:l ..............•.......... PlltJtugTuphit• I·:UIIU1 1 ('o[n Hunnl -IUdla.td l·,,nJ~. :-\tault y 'lil\t:.Lil .\lht_·n Kto'idd;,, (it·IJl'gv ~\l'tdtlkuli:-- .... \1·11~.1 t ~.lldJ•Illlt.:, :--i~u:l :\,:lt•::-.t_•l. .I:u<~h li••~d=--t•IIL', li•tl .... K:.u1tn:u. :--1la:-- :'Leill- 11att. Juht. ~\l;l .. tl: .. JP .. t;•h ll.tlllloL. 'Til'lll:J.~ lltllt·li1;,.U. - JJlwtugrnphh• Buartl-Le~'ll Jnvoik:tHl. Jt;-romc \·eiu- ~tt'IIL nu ... illl\\' ~taft .\'h-lYil'lL· ~\h-~!--t:llgt-1, l >r.nid Hu~ellhlum, :O.Lu \ J:, t''rtdllt·t last week. Lyons also said that Willlde's appearance ·here will be thp next major one Jor the for•mer Republican standard b«>.arer. He's Staying This is the story that we heard weeks ago but wanted to verify. HELLO, 1946 We're glad it's not true, for Fred Wyatt is doing a bang-up job in the Admissions Office and it would even keeL And that'.s going to be too tough be hard, doubly hard now, for a job for us, because the way we see things Union to find a man to replace It isn't so very difficult for us to remem- ber back to when, on a week-end 1~ot so very long· ago, we were visiting Union for the first thne. We, like you, were almost at the door of fout· years of high school l:~fe-the door marked ''exit\ and knew that as soon as that door slammed behind us, an0ther would be opened in front of us, one marked \entrance\,-entrance to four yea:t·::; of col- lege life. As it happened, the one n·uwked \entrance Union Co!Iege\ was the one we picked. Naturally, we hope you'll pick that one, too. You're here this week-end LJoth be- cause we're interested in you and because you're interested in us. And so, we've open- ed the door for a few hours to give you a .peel\ at what your future may look J,ike. But that works both ways, too, because, since you might very well be considered to be a preview of Union College a few short years hence, we're getting a peel< at our future. too. And so, it seems we really have quHe a bit in common. Howevet·, after ;J cettain point, the similarity ceases. The doo:t' just beyond our immediate future is marked \en- trance, your Uncle Samuel\. Beyond that door lies a period of experience that seems, at present, hardly comforting in its p1·ospect. However, we have a feeling that once we'ye taken care of the business on the other side of that door, and stepped back into the type of world we've known during most of our life, it's gomg to be a different world t0 us, and it's gomg to be a terrific job for some- body to get that world going again on an him. then tnay be a little distorted by the things Rumors h3.d Fred Wyatt leaving to take a \positicn\ or \commis- we've been through, and the Job is going to sion\ with the United States Navy. rest with the men who've had a chance to Wyatt was to do \personnel work\ watch thillQ'S from a Httle better point of or \recruiting.\ Impetus was given ~ the story by the fact that Fred was vantage, to look at the passing events a little reported to have given up his Civil- more obJ'ectively, and to accumulate the ian Defense positions. That was easily explainable; Fred was going knowledge necessary for the job ahead. That 1 on a long trip for the college. will be where you'll step in. The job will be The rumors also had Fred taking a Navy physical ex,amination. He largely yours, if it is to be done l'ight. was to \leave\ when his admission duties for next year were done. We feel that your job for the next few A check-up showed that there . years, while we are elsewhere, will be found was no truth in the report. Dr. Fox knew nothing and Dr. Bronner said right here, preparing yourselves for the big- it wasn't true. ger job ahead. That's why we think you're Locked Out · · · d 1 ] t 11 · Some men of Union were sitting WISe tn getttng an a· vance oo { a co ege, 111 over beer and sandwiches in the turning your steps toward the same door we Little Sir Echo restaurant on Nott entered not lonQ' a!l.'O, and seeing your part Street the other evening when the ~ ~ doot· opened and Professor Walter in the job on America's hands today. C. Langsam rushed in, out of breath, and dressed in tuxedo. But it might be well to let such serious Dr. Langsam gasped, \I'm locked out! \-rushed to a phone, ex- thoughts drop into the background of the changed a few words, and ran out. week-end's program, and concentrate on hav- All cyclonic resemblances ceased. The good doctor seemed all right ing the same good time we enjoyed when we in class the next day. first came here. And we think you will. I r:=============.i There are special features tliat have been arranged to make yom stay here pleasant, and all the brothers at the fraternity houses will wem· neckties and coats, perhaps, and the effort to \make a good impression\ on you will be evidenced in other ways, but we think you'll see Union as you ought to see it, see it as it really is, mainly becau.se you'll be living with Union men for th1·ee days, and if you get to know us all, you'll know Union. Even if you aren'f Irish You'll Enjoy THE PLAYBOY OF THE WESTERN WORLD with Edward Dahlstedt A JOB WELL DONE For QUICK Reliable and Excellent Laundering Once again, the annual event has taken place. The men who have distinguished themselves to the highest degree possible along scholastic lines receive the reward and honor due them. The men who were honored this week by Sigma Xi and Phi Beta Rappa have earned their distinct1on along lines which makes the pages of the newspapers only once during their college caree1·s. We congratulate them. When a man enters college today, he must make a choice, and he may as well rnake it at the outset, if possible. He must choose between two paths through college: (1) the way that leads to fame and campus promi- nence through extra-cmTicular activities, or politics, or athletics, or (2) the way that leads upward along the path of high scholas- tic attainment, a path not stt·ewn with head- lines or cheering crowds, but a path, the fol- lowing and surmounting of which, in our opinion deserves as much praise and admil·- ation as does· the other, more pleasant, a!- though no easier, way. The choice, in the great majority of cases, must be made. In some cases, the brilliance of an individual may make it possible for him to walk both paths at once, and to gain distinction on both. :Men like this, however, are, of course, striking exceptions. For the large percent- age, though, this is not possible. The choice must be made, it matters not which way, as long as the job done in either direction is a :!istinguished one, praise and honor and ac- clamation are due to him who earns the l'ight to them. We do not say that to forsake extra-curri- culm· activities for the sake of scholastic ex- cellence is to \miss the biggest part of col- lege life, nor do we think that to place the emphasis on the side ·Of \campus life\ is to \waste tuition money.\ We do say this, how- ever; that if, having made his choice, a man reaches the top, as these thirteen seniors have done, he richly deserves the success that is his. UBS AND FM The announcement of the expanding of the activities of the Union Broadcasting Sys- tem which appears in today's issue is more than it appears to be on the surface. Behind it all is a tireless group of hard-working, courageous men, who, in the lifetime of the system, have demonstl·ated a type of pei·se- verance and determination that is :ra1·el~· seen. Working almost entirely without funds, without very much encouragement and buck- ing seemingly insurmountable difficulties, the men behind UBS have done a job that is truely miraculous. This latest improvement in UBS's set-up, which is certain to increase a hundred fold the popularity and quality of the station's programs, is only typical of the type of fine work that has been done by this intrepid little organization during its short lifetime. call the PARK LAUNDRY I 05 Clinton St. Ph. 4-9011 Is your car ready for cooler weather? Are you going to fol- low the team? Get your car in shape at BEEKMAN'S 601 UNION ST. Mobilgas - Mobilubrication Mobiloil DENTISTRY The field of dentistry today of· fers to college students an attrac· live career. It provides a worthy intel!ectuar challenge, a life of pro- feS'SoioP.a! service with satisfactory income, and an opportunity for re- search and teaching in this division of medical sdence and art. The University of Pennsylvania has .prepared more than six thous- and gra-duates who are occupying positions of importance in the pro· fession throughout the world. Its course of instruction is of the high· est order. Anyone interested in this profes- sion as a life work ie invited to apply for further information to The Dean of the School of Dentistry University of Pennsylvania. 40th and Spruce Streets, Philadelphia, Pa. Memo: To those who want to find Dr. Doty. He's at that old, old \but efficient> radio in his class- room every day, hour exams, marks or what have you, to listen to the 9 a. m. and 6 p. m. news re- ports. Before Pearl Hatbor Dr. Doty depended upon his car radio and Elmer Davis for the latest news. The Bai!Jey Hall radio ·is a bit closer. Listen in with him some day! The Students Tattoo Fn•d VPnlOn '45, has a large blood red dagger tattooed on llis right fo~earm. So far as we know he is th«> only tattooed student at Union. Vernon says the tattoo cost him a quartet. There is no .spectacular story behind it. Walking on New York's Bowery he was fascinated by the artists who ply the tattoo trade. On an impulse he had the dagger tattvoed on his arm. It did not hurt and he suffered no ill effects. He plans no further· tattooing. Another Bic.yc;le One of the Male boys <we think it's Kenneth) has also purchased a bicycle to come down to school on. He reports that it takes an hour to get from Stop 20, Troy Road to the chapel. We suggested that the family purchase a bicycle built for three so that fath<er and family could all come down to college to- gether. He said it wasn't practical. The one in front did all the pumping and he didn't want to give the others a fl·ee ride. --S. B. Larrabee To Be Heard On 'Speaking of Books' Tonight a,t 7:30 on WGV \'Design for Power,.\ a diplomatic and military history Of the disas- trous quarter of a century from Versailles to Peart Harbor, will be reviewed on WGY's .Spea:king of Books program, Friday:, Mat•ch 27, :.vt 7:30 p.m. Williams Professor The authot· is Dr. Frederick Lewis Schuman, Professor of Po- litical Science at Williams College since 1936, and Woodrow Wilson Professor af Govet·nment since 1938. Dr·. Schuman wiH be .present at the broadcast to ampHfy and explain his views and, where nec- essary, to defend his arguments. ·walter Millis, reviewing this lat- est work of the Williams' profes- sor, said it is history written out af scholarship, but out of a schol- arship informed by a blazing con- viction. Axis Record Each chapter on the Axis powers is a record of homicidal madness; each chapter on the ft•ee nations is a record of weakness, timidity, evasions that did not evade, and \appeasolationism\ that neither ap- .peased nor isolated. It is Prof. Schuman's conviction that we have been caught up by a tremendous struggle of power politics and that power politics is, therefore, what we must play on a grandiose scale. The following veviewers will dis- cuss the book: Prof. Harold A. harrabee of Union College; special guest-critic, Mildt·ed Adams and Granville Hicks, author. • Lasher w•ns War on Weather\ For years, telephone cable has been hung by stiff wire rings from its supporting strand. But repeated expansion and con- traction caused by temperature changes sometimes proved too much for even the best cable sheath. Fatigue cracks developed near the poles- this meant leaks- possible ser- vice interruptions-expensive repairs. Recently, men of the Bell System developed a machine that lashes the cable and strand togetht.::.- in such a way that the concentration of strains near the pol11s is minimized. The Cable Lasher has also proved a ~Teat aid in the speedy installation of some of the new cables needed for airfields, camps, bases and war factories, There are many opportunities in the Bell System for men with the urge- and the ability- to do a job better than it has ever been done before. 3 ( Pr~ At I Vi~ • D1 in Sc Un over man~ camJ them whic gram ment to ar To welc< with hot1s· dinn• to : \Spe' inate prog tureo will at 1( cepti gues Dr signe CUSS< C'riti( the ' To men of 1 10:00 ron, will At for held Labc a .S! dent: nalis in Ii tour is sc Af hous vi tee worl mal 6:00 ing • sub- I man wish Pr weel most year and begi: Tt will Sun< a. n Tow held has gran aftel I c I

be of ck ge on ~c- ai- ~rs ty, nd of. is- A. ial nd • ..• ,•: ~ .:;- 3 SUB-FRESHMEN FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1942 (i4·t Q!nntnttfirtt!ltS College Offers Guests Varied; But Typical Week-end ~ Progra~m l:ndudes Athletics, Class Visits, Movies Weekend Guests, Representing Preparatory Schools In 11 States Richatd L. Ahearn, Jr., White<:?- Plains; Donald Aitken, Schenec- tady; Donald Aker, Albany; Benja- min S. Albertson, Lewes, Del.; Rob- eJ·t Albri'ght, Westfield, N.J.; Doug- Dr. Waldron to s.~eak las Allart, Sherma-n, Stuart Arnold, li'\ Scott Argersinger, Fultonvil'le. in Assembly P.rogram \Ect~;i-d Brubyak, Cohoes; Henry . Saturday Morning at 1 0 Baker. Johnstown; Viacent Beck, • Newton Center, Mass.; Levan Bed- Union today is welcoming well t·osian, Albany; Bruce Birdsall, over 200 Sub-Freshmen gue<ts, GloversvNle. many of whom are visiting the Advice to Week-end Guests The Concordiensis presents the foHowing summary of sug- gestions to Union's Sub-Freshman guests, prepared and pre- sented by the college administration, in the hope that these bits of advice will make our guests' visit the more profitable for each one. The administration's suggestions, entitled \How to Get the Most from Your Visit to Union This Week-end\ are as follows: campus for the first time. Before Anthony Bower, Albany; John them lie three days of college !He, R,..igham, Troy; Robert Brodie, which, in spite of the val'ied pro- Amsterdam.; Frank Bruenig, West gram prepared for theil· entertain- Ber.ne; J:ohn Burger, Westport-on- Be sure to meet at least one member of the faculty teaching in the ment, wHl actually me very simi'lar Lake Champlain: Blaine R. Butler, field you plan to follow. to an ave1·age college week-end. i JJ·., Worcester, Mass. If possible go to classes on Saturday morning with a student enrolled Tonight the 16 fraternities will Fredericlt Carleton, Oneida Cas- in the course you have in mind. welcome their respective guests tle; Robert Ca.rtoon, Tarrytown; If you have not had a personal interview with a member of the Ad- with dinner at the various chapter Dqvic1 Clark. Oneida: George Cog- missions Committee, schedule one while you are on the campus. hoases, i.n most cases at 6:30. After hill. Hoosick Falls: John W. Con- dinner, the guests wiH be invited nev, Amsterdam: Ca·rl w. Cottam, Undergraduates know the College well. Feel free to ask them or to attend the WGY broadcast, Albany. members as well as the faculty questions about Union's curricula, ex- penses, athletics, and activities. \Speaking of Book,;\ which Ol'ig- Donald Dtlan, Lynbrook; George inates in the Old Chapel. After the Davis. Delhi, John Davis, Avon, Find out all you can about fraternity life. Visit any chapter houses p 1 ·ogram, a series of moticm pic- Ccnn.; William Day, New Haven, in which yoa ai·e interested. Feel free to accept invitations to other tures taken in and about Union Conn.; Leo Dineson, Ossining. fraternities for lunch or dinner. Try to see four or five fraternity will tJe shown in the chapel, and. RobeJt Disney, Albany·, EHiot houses during Open House Saturday afternoon. DO NOT AOOEPT A t 10 00 th '11 b a re PLEDGE FROM A FRATERNITY AT THIS TIME. a : · p. m. ere WI · e - Daft. L~l wrence: John Douglas, ception at Hale HousP for all the Brooklyn; Gerald G. Dudley, Tarry- Mi'.J{e as many a·cquaintancestnps as possible with .students; preference guests. town. should be given to freshmen and sophomores, a.s ·they will be here Dr. F. L. Schuman's boo!{, \De- after you enter college. signed fot Power\ will be dis- William E c ken be 1· g, VaHey cussed by Dr. Schuman, a panel of Stream; Warren Edkin, Onei_da; critics and GranviUe Hicks during Theodvre E g l Y , Garden C1ty; the \Speaking of Books\ program. I James Elgie, Jr., Altamont; Harry Essig, Valley Stream; Harold Evans. Binghamton; Leslie Evans, Waldron in Chapel Tomorrow morning all sub-fresh- E::-st Oran!?,'e, N. J. men are invited to attend ses,-ions George Fagan, Ilion; Dean Fol- of regular Saturday classes. At som, White PlaiNs; Jack Foster, 10:00 o'clock, Dr. Charles N. Wald- \Vebster; Robert Fox, Detroit, ron, 106, Secretary of the College, Mich.; Ian Fraser, Waverly; Wal- will speak in Daily Assembly. ter Fredenburgh, Loudonville. At 9:30 special demonstrations Philip Geisler, Germantown, Pa.; for engineering students will be Bernard Gerb, Gloversville; Wil- held in the Electrical Engineering liam Goewey, Newburgh; Lawrence Laboratory. At 10:20 there will be Goldman, Poughkeepsie. a special meeting for those stu- 1 George Gow, Pelham Manor; Bill dents interested in English, jour- 1 Greiney, Hugh Grindy, North nali,;m and other forms of writing 1 Adams, ~ass.: Bennett Grocock, in Room 2 of Washburn Hall. A 1 Oneida; John Grout, Scarsdale. tour of the Chemist1·y Laboratory Harry Hawkes, Old Greenwich, is scheduled for 11:00 a. m. Conn.; Robert Hempton, Amster- After lunching at the chapter dam; Ward Hendrickson, Jamaica; houses, sub-freshmen will be in- Frank Hess, Shaker Heights, Ohio; vited to watch athletic squad5 Jack Hockman, Toledo, Ohio; Ar- work out or to take part in infer- thur Highland, Ogdensburg. mal athletics. Between 4:30 and i James Hogeboom, Lynbrook; 6:00 p. m. the fraternities are hold-~ Richard Horne, Valley Srteam; ing open house prog1·ams, in which Donald Houghton, Kimball Union sub-freshmen are invited to visit as I Academy; Donald Hommel, Pough- rnany fraternity houses as they I keepsie; Lawrence Hughes, Ken- wish. more; Donald Hyde, Newton Cen- Probably the highlight of the J tre, Mass. wee]{-end, and certainly one of the Donald Jacocks, Montclair, N. J.; most popular programs in recent Herman Jankowski, Tribes Hill; years, are the intra-mural boxing David Jaruis, Gov. Dummer Acad- and wrestling .bouts scheduled to emy; Fred Jenkins, Manlius School; begin at 8:00 p. rn. Harry Johnson, Jr., Amsterdam; The Rev. Herbet·t R. Houghton Bevan Jones, Briarcliff Manor; will be the p1·eacher at the regular Nellis Joslyn, Richmondville. Sunday chapel servire at 11:00 Robert Kanka; John Kanwisher, a. m. Sunday. At 3:30, the 100th Oneida; Donald Kelly, Amsterdam; Town Meeting Broadcast will be Stirling Kirr, Glen Ridge, N. J.; held in .Old Chapel. Dr. Tidmarsh Richard Kohlheyer, Manhasset. has scheduled an all-Wagner pro- Peter Larios, Plattsburg; Peter gram for his organ recital Sunday Langhoff, Toledo, Ohio; Robert afternoon at 4:00. Lee, Delhi; John Lenahan, Albany; Call Ball PHONE and 6-3456 Ball Will Call WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING - ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY c 0. CORNER STATE and CENTER STREETS Meet some of the men in chatge of activiti~: coaches, advisors, di- rectors and the like. See as much of the campus as possible, ·particularly the Library, Hale House, Dormitories, Jackson's Garden, and Silliman Hall, in addition to the Classrooms and Laboratories. Check the supply of Union College printed material in the rear of the Old Chapel and in the Hall of the Administration Building and take any you have not alre::J.dy received . F.obert Lesser, Bridgeport, Conn.; It-win Light, Schenectady; Robel't Litke, Gloversville. Bill MacCadan, Ogrensburg; Rob- ert MacKay, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Bruce MacKinley, Mechanicville; Alfred Mahoney; John Maloney, Gloversville; Clifford Marsh, Rock- ville Centre; Wade Marsters, Dloomfield, N. J. George May, Newton Highlands, Mass.; Richard McDonald, Ocean- side; EdwaTd McG1·ath, Bloomfield, N. J.; Robert Mariani, Tal'l'ytown; E r n e s t Martorelli, Gloversville; Harry H. Meyer, Pleasantville. The College Administration John Mickelson, N. Tonawanda; Lorenz Minicone, Valley Stream; Craig Mitchell, Auburn; George Morison, Taft; Robert Mountsier, Nutley, N. J.; John K. Mumford,· Canajoharie; John R. Munford, Hartford, Conn. William Neal, Walton; Dee Nel- son, Toledo, Ohio; Gordon Newell, Rochester; William Nical, Upper Montclair, N. J.; Lee North, Brightwaters. Edward Olson, Tarrytown. John Parks, Flushing; James Patterson, Walton; John Pa:tton, Newton Highlands, Mass.; Arthur Anything you need? Call A R R 0 w GUERRA'S PHARMACY \WE DELIVER\ 600 Union St. Simply Phone 6-9419 IJwo (an live as (heaply as one! That is-two shirts. The reason is that the two shirts are one. Arrow Doubler is the name and it's a sports shirt and a dress shirt according to your fancy. This ingenious shirt, invented hy Arrow, is now one of tltc favorites of U. S. cam· puses. Labeled Sanforized - guaranteed not to shrink even 1%! See it today! NUSBAUM'S 447•451 STA~E sraBBT A R R 0 w '--------- A R R 0 W Pearce, Poughkeepsie; Jack Pel'l'y, Donald Werner, Brooklyn; A)- Rochester. mon WilsoN, Jt·., Hud;son Falls; Albert Pfaff, South Orange, N. J.; George Woodruff, Montclair, N. J.; Lee PhHips, New York City; Harry Albert \Vohlem, Hempstead; Alton PhHo, Glens Falls; Carl Plano, Wilson, Albany; Sigmund Wojcick, Frankfort; John Poole, Albany. ·Amsterdam; Robert Wisner. Walter Quigley, Coxsackie; Vlil-: John E. Yetter, Lynbrook; Ed- liam Quinn, Gloversville. wat·d Younglove, Johnstown. William H. Hider, Coxsackie; John M. ·zuck, Washington, N. J. Robert Ried, Irving; James R. Rhodes, Poultney, Vt.; James Rob-: erts, Port Washington. :Alma Mater Floors Irw:in Roberts, Brooklyn; Daniel , S • k A Robertson, White Plains, Robert : p1V0 rranger Rochofsky, 0 c e ansi de: Edward i Rosen, Poughkeepsie; William Ry- We't·e wondering how newcomers der, Coxsackie; Maurice Rubin. to the Glee Club manage to sing : the Alma Mater. Charlie Spivak Harry San f i 1 i ppo, Bloomfield, a~ked for a copy of the \Ode to N. J.; Arthur Sa:k: ~U.chard Sa~-. Old Union\ so that he could play ford, G17ns Falls, Wtlham Savel,, it at Prom. Bob Nemeroff, Pub- Gl?versville; Stan Schampan, Pas- : Hcity Chairman for the Prom, sent sate, N. J. :a copy of the medley which the Seymour Schwa,rtz, Jamaica; Ar- ; Glee Club uses for all Union songs. thut· Sanders, Deansboro; Arthur A few days later, Nemeroff re- Shapera, Glens Falls; Ralph 'Shea- · ceived a letter from Spivak's ar- ver, Montclair, N. J.; Robert ranger, Dave Mann, askiNg a differ- Shu:e, Albany. , ent copy of the Alma Mater. Ap- Rrchard Shutts, Amsterdam; . parently he couldn't make head nor John Seymour, Baltimore; ~'lr. 'tale of the medley arrangement. Calvin Simmons, Gloversville; San- 'And we understand that Mann ford Simons, Albany; Roger Smith, 1 studied music at the University of Newark, N. J. 1 Pennsylvania. Have we a bunch of Kenneth Stillwell, El'ie, Pa.; Alan 1 musical beniuses in our Glee Club? Stone Hudson Falls· Dayton Stoss · ---- ·· o---- John~town; Ge1·ald, Strauss, AI~ ' Penn State Engineers b~ny; Andrew J. StudweU, Glen ; Are Working Harder R1dge, N. J. 1 George Tamalonis, H a r t f o r d State College, Pa., Ma:rch 16- Conn.; Richard Tobin, Buffalo; Students in the School of Engi- Peter Tolles, Norwalk, Conn.: John :nee ring at the Pennsylvania State Tully, Pelham. ' College are taking their work more Jack Trenner, Baltimore, Md.; 1 seriously than ever before. Howard Van Dine, Pearl River; : Dean Harry P. Hammond t'e- NeU Van Allen, Little Falls; Irving : pm1:s that not only has there been Van Woert, Delmar; Joost Vas , a steady decline in the numbe1· of Dias, New York City; William 1 failure and in actions by the fac- Vickery, Newal'k, N. Y. uJ.ty in the case of students doing Samuel Walls, Jr., Westpo1t: ~ unsati>Jfactory work, but that the Michael Ward, Geneseo; Merwin 'numbe1· of seniors who have Warren, Boonv.ille; Abbott Wein- · achie\·ed citation on the dean's list stein, Troy; Charles H. Weissner, ; for high scholarship has increas- Yonkers. : ed 100 per cent in a year's time. r-----------------------------------------------~ I t I ICE CREAM ! I t I I I Q I 1 ne gallon of the very best Ice Cream. I I :. 1 any flavor. Square package. easy to slice. 1 I $1.35 Delivered - Simply Phone 6-1248 : • • • • f Bellevue Dairy ! I I • • .. _____________________ .. ., _____________________ -.--' ~t's the same shirt- Arrow's Doubler HERE'S a shirt that knows how to relax! It's convertible-you can wear it all day with a tie and it's perfectly smart; take the tie off when you get home and you can have a handsome, expensive-looking sport shirt! Arrow Douhler comes in a variety of fine fahrics laheled Sanforized (shrinkage less than 1%), has two pockets and has Arrow's famed \Mitoga\ figure-fit. Get Doubler today! \

Wire 01nnrrrr~i~ttBis FRIDAY. MARcH 21. 1942 GENERAL 4 Mountebanks Complete 'Playboy' Casting; !Union's Part In Development of Radio Prom-night Performance ~!.~.~~in~~!!.'!.. f!!.ve of lOOth Town Meeting 1 ~::.~!n~~s t~e ~i~~::t .;;_t E~~:r 0 ~~- ment to the pioneering activities in I Union. College prQsently sponsors Special Announce Dahlstedt in lead Role<!>------~--~---·--·------- Prom Ticket Holders \ As Mountebanks Cast Prom Play To Get Reduced Price Edv:ard Dahlstc•dt, '45, has been selected fo1 the leading rolE' . of C'hl .i\tV .Mahon in the forthcommg - · · \The :\lountebanks p r u d. u e t 1 ° 11 ·, • .. 1 Phybov of the \\ estnn \\ otld. diJ~ectt•d by !11iss Gract> HalsPy '1\ll. All the speakmg 1 ol<'\ ha_vc ·' 1 s. b. MISS ·tit ~·tdy bt•t•n RE'll'CtE'd ~ ~lrll~. who ret urnt>d on !1.1onday -~o lw~m 1 t'lw:usa·b of the ~,·cund d1 -~ t lc uff<•nn..,; of th<' season. The 111-t . . . k hee I tits\ pl'rf01lliUllCl' \\\!ll l>i e ]l :. h luntui Ptom nie-;ht. Ap!!l 10. \\! 1 ~ wo utht'l\ pt•t foi nmnC't'S thP In'· lowmg :\1umlay and Tut>::day. Apnl I 13 and H. Has :\l'ting Eqll'rit'Ill'<' Although a newcomer to tlw I !\lountebanltos <tage, D:thlstE'dt h>iS had cun::ndt'l a bit' tlH:a·t I H·:tl t·Xp~·t ~ Pnct~ He wa::; tlH.> <.:u-fuundt·l o •. t summt>r theatle. anJ: has ap]wat. I Pd tn rnanv ll'·l~h sl'lluul ptlHluc- I nons. !\ltss ·Lut;;, ll~tU·llH.'l wil! l'': 1 trav Pegl~t>n :\llk.c. tl•t ) \l~tn.~ ~lt 1 wh~ fa-lls in luw w1th Chn:;ty, th<' 1 \playboy:· :\listi Hampt'l attPnds New Yot·k ::>tale Colle~.e flr Tpac.h· ers. and has ~tcted in SchenPctad.Y Civic Players productions. Pegeen _s father, Michat>l James. wtll be pla~. ed by Raymond Aldrich, :42 .. wh~ ·u be remembE'rE'd for hl>< mtei- ;I~etation of Wendell YJillkie in The Concordiensis mustcal show, \Let the Grecians Scl•eam.\ Albe:·t Miller. '45, who played Henry ~~ this season's \Outward Bound, will be seen as Shawn Keogh. Pegeen's suitor. and Alexander Maxwell, '43, a Mountebanks vet- t>ran, will play Cllr~sty's father; Phi.Jly and Jimmy, .Mtchael James two cronies, will bE' played by Theodore Grey. '44, and Stanley Green, '43, respectively. Four Ft>mi.IJ.int> RolE's Other feminine members of the cast beside Miss Hampel. are !\1iss Betty Doyle as the Widow Quin, and th<' MissPs Jean Erdoss, Jane Garrett, Irene Hoffman, and Be_tty Keenan. all of Nott Terrace H1gh School, as four young g.irls who come to visit Christy. Minor roles of peasant~ in the mob scene have yet to ·be chosen. . An inviting offer is bemg made this year to the first hundred stu- MODERN DINER Cor. ALBANY and VEEDER Abovt>, Edward Dahlstedt, '45, studies his part as ~liss GJ•acE' Mills and Miss B~tty Doylt> discuss a fine point. Bt>low, a studious moment during rt>ht>arsal. Lt>ft to Right, Alt>xandt>l' 1\<laxwell, '43, Miss Mills, Robert McNulty, '45, Raymond Aldri<'h, '42, Stanly Grt't'n, '43, Tt>d Grey, '44, Albt>rt Miller, '45, Miss D-;>~·lt>, and Dahlstt>dt. dent who purchase ticket.:; to the working hard to present a finished p10m, who will rt>ceive reserved performance on opening night Con- seats fo1· themselves and their struction of the set, which was dates for fifty cents at the P-rom started by Charles Lothridge, '44, performance. There will be no mus- before the spr.ing recess, has been ical concert for Prom weekend, progressing we! Iunder his leader- and, of course, the play wi-ll be ship. The widening and lowering given early enough in the eve- of the proscenium by Abraham ning so that students, will have Bakal, '42, has made a great 1m- plenty time to attend the dance provement in the acting area of afterward::;. In addition to the reg- the stage. Posters h\J.ve already ularly s c h e d· u I e d pe1·formances, been made by Marshall Heyman, there will be a preview showing '45, and the difficult task of secur- Thursday. April 9, which w;ll be ing the conect properties is be- foi· high school students. Joseph ing capably handled by Romert Heaney, \42 and Robett Kohn, Schamberger, '45. Norman Fenster, '43, are in charge of this per- '43, is in charge of make-up and formance. costumes, which are >!O important The recently reorganized dramat- in presenting the true Irish flavor iE' group. with Stanley Green as of the comedy. : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P~~~-o~d~u~c~.t~io~n~~m~a~n~a~g~e~ 1 ~··~~h~a~s~~b~e~e~n. Other students who at·e doing their bit to insure the success of the offering are Edward Fliegel, '42, business manager, Seymour For .. Better Milk .. Try Us Our Supply Comes from the Finest Dairy Farms Direct to Our Plant and Processed in Modern Stainless Steel Equipment YOU'LL LIKE THE FLAVOR LANSING'S DAIRY 215 N. Tenbroecl• St., Scotia, N. Y. Phone 6-7758 Ice-cold Coca-Cola is everything refreshment should be· ••• a clean, exciting taste ••• refreshment you can feel ••• qual:- ity you can trust. For complete refreshment it's all you want and you want it all. Try it. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA.COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY G!ucroft, '45, who designed the set, Marvin Epstein. '43, stage manager, and Richard Conly, '43, David Clowe. '42, James Herbert, '45, Ed- ward Dahlstedt, and Bruce May, '43. who a1·e building the set. IDEAL BARBER SHOP Ideal Barber Service at no extra cost 448 State Street PHONE 4-7136 You trust its qualaty If d . Yt f tl 11 N, ' Schenectady-at the General Elec- five radw programs a week over ormer 1rec or o II' co ege ews . WGY Th · B trJC Company Research Laboratory : e Emp1re State Town ~~au. p 'd t F d , and at the Union College -through Meeting present different points of th lt\ll t' rt\SI ft\n 1 odx 1 ?~t ouln<'t\ , Jts electrical engineering faculty view among publi~ officials held 1 e gran tng o an n e -mt e eavt> · . . . . f b t M E 1 t C I and students. And m the art of on 1 m port ant pubhc questwns. 0 a senct>t .o h r,t 1 ~ze~~ as 1 om: : broadcasting, Union students pio- Through a series fi.rst called the mt>nCt>~et~ 't ~ :. · .. ~ da um;r nee red with the first recreationa-l \American Faith\ and this year pure.sen C Ia! · · hnzt'r h aid rna dl'! programs over their own radio sta- called \The :fntellectual Adven- nion · o egt> a ouse o wor . d 1 b f t \ b h. thr h t th N th t, M, E , twn that was operate ong e ore ure, mem · e1·s of t e college fac- outg'dou 0 ~' or_,. t>as. · -1. tn- 'KDKA became the first commercial ulty present tht> relationship of zer o, a oncorult'nsis repor t\r 1 b. d t\ t t' · th · , · 1 fi ld f d h I t · ht th t h b 1 . . th . 1 oa cas mg s a wn. en spec1a e o stu y to t e as mg a t' t' II'Vt'S ~' develo m t f A. ·· ' d · - Town Mt>eting and Science Round- 1 It was in 1925, however, t-hat ~ en °h t m~rwlan emoc table prog1·ams he ht>lped found , Union College began to use radio :·acy. !OJ~ew a Slml ar purp 1 ~s~ l and organizt> wt>rt• mort\ t•esponsi-'as a regular part of its service to ~.s 0 serve· 1 . Yp a prog,z;a~ cah.eh . . . · emocra JC rocesses 1n w JC ble than an~· otht>r smgle thmg for the commumty. The Sunday morn- f It b f 1 2 th 1 i whatevt\r success ht> ma\· ha\\t' had ing worship ser\\!ces during which acu Y mem ers 0 0 e 1 ' co· '. . · . leaes come here to present these 1m th1s rE-spect a guest speaker generally del!vers d·'\: . A. h\t t d th . i Mr. Enzer assisted in ananging the se1·mon has been continuously ,:~t~us~~~~~~l ~~o~-~:ds E' a~f h~st~:-~ 1 morE' than l!O of tht> 100 programs. broadcast fm· 17 year::;. perhaps a d h t\ . .t g h k~ Ed 1 • ·d f .. h\ k\ d f . d\ . a-n ouses par IC!pa e m t e weE' - 1- .) . Iecoi 01 . t 18 m 0 !a 10 p!o- ly radio broadcast dealing with I B. !\HI TON !VI t'NZt'R \W gram. Val'lous types of lectures by N . y ·k St t . h\t t . A d ~ · ' · · · \ ' ' • taeulty membe1s, campus visit0rs, ~'\ 01 a E' ale 1 PC Ule . n I The mao-ical numbe1· 100 is never ·and student discussiolliS have been finally, the Sunday chapel s~r':'l~es \' . . . annually present about 26 VlSltmg allowed to appear m modern 1·ec- 'g1ven on the radiO. But through the 11 h t th . h , o1 ds without !l<tshing the histut ical ' Empi1 ,. Rt;~te Town Meeting se- ~~ ege . pr~ac :I:s boge 11 'Pr ~Jt spotlight to bring to \'iew the rit•s, L'nion College has been 1 en· e. musJCa seivJce. Y :t · e co E'~E' 1 • • • • • • chou· under the directiOn of D1·. 1 events wh1ch led to this wonderful . der:ng a umque service m the field El , A T\d h 1 culmination. Tln:s .the lOOth Em· of adult education by radio. That mel · 1 mars · 1 pile Stat~ Town :.\leding sched- this se1\\·:cc• b applt•C'i>ttt•d may bt• I .rn .ald-itilln, tht• CoHt·g~· Radio I uled fo1 :sunday afte111uun 111 tln· JUdged f1 om the mailed request,; \\ o1·kshop has pi esented d1 am a· Old Chapel serves us a pleasant re- . for transcripts of the discussions tizations, news of other colleges, mintier that Union College has that have come from persons liv- musical programs ove1· both WGY been using the radio regularly to I ing in. 319 different cities in Con- and Schenectady's two powerful in· I provide homes in more than a , necticut, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, New ternational stations. Workshop dozen states with spiritual susten- ! Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, members a:lso have opportunity to 1 ance, information, and even recrea- Ohio, 0 k I a h o m a, Pennsylvania, learn the techniques of television tion. ! Vermont, West Virginia and Can- broadcasting over the General Rad•io owes much of its develop- 1 ada. ! Continued on Page 6) Dean's List For Third Marking Period Is Announced; 207 Students Honored; Seniors Class Leads With 62 The third marking period schol-~-- -- - arship reports brought 207 men the \B\ average required for Dean's List honors, according to the Dean's Office report made this week. The senior class led with 62 men. The freshmen followed with 52, and the juniors and sophomores followed with 47 and 46, respec- tively. At the end of the last marking period. 215 men were named to the Dean's List, including 58 seniors, 47 juniors. 54 sophomores, and 56 freshmen. Two hundred a.nd eight men were included on the Dean's List at the end of the first marking period, and 247 at the end of last year. *Ranks in the first ten in the class for this marking period. CLASS OF 1942 Bachelors of Arts - \John C. Baas, Jr., Avery J. Beer, Hans Boll, Clifford E. Bowdish, Jr., Mal- colm A. Carpenter, Robert C. Con- nell, Francis P. Coward, II, *Wil- liam M. Daly. Victor J. Daneski, Thomas J. Doyle, Donald C. Field, Robert D. Forrest. William C. Garcia, Delphis C. Goldberg, Stewart E. Goldblatt, Stanley D. Greenstein, Robert P. Hallenbeck, Leslie A. Heinen, Rob- ert W. Howard, John A. Knapp, William A. LaBattaglia, Philip J. Landry, Jr.. Keith C. McCandless, *Nicholas F. Morelli. Allen S. 01·ton, Raymond R. Pal- azml, Samuel Portnoy, Hymen Rogachefsky, George H. Shell, Lee S\herman Richard S. Sobell, Wil- liam C. Stone, Roy H. Webster. William E. Weller, Jr., *Clayton L. Williams, Clarence E. Woodward. lnttrtsttd in Schtntctady lnteresttd in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Strut Jeweler 16o JAY STREET IY ate h and hwdry Repairmg a Spuialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS Bachelor of Science -Alexander J. Arony, Abraham Bakal, Maurice Deui. John L. Grow, George H. Hupman. BS in Civil Engineering-Donald R. Brockwehl, Fred J. Longe, *Richard H. Marvin, John J. Mc- Manus, Jr.. Harry E. Rifenbark, Theodore D. Robinson, II, Michael A. Stanco. BS in Electrical Engineering - Harold H. Britten, Edward J. Ka- lenik, *William R. Kt·uesi, Robert W. Llewellyn, Robert C. Miller, Harry E. Stevens, Howard E. Van Valkenburg. BS in Cht>mistry - *Charles 0. Bostwick, *Robert W. Davison, *Solomon Penner. BS in Physics-Francis H. Cof- fin, Leona! d Levine, *Sanford P. Thompson. CLASS OF 1943 Bachelor of Arts - Kenneth S. Barnes, Howard R. Berger, Robert M. Bishop, Emile J. Brunet, Har- lan W. Buckland, Robert L. Cooch, Samuel J. Coppola, Robert R. Cul- len, Marvin B. Epstein, Harvey J. Fishbone, Herbert E. Gade, Stanley Green, Robert H. Hayner. Frank W. Jones, *Robert M. Kohn, Wilbur Lakin, *Joseph E. Ledden, Leon Levine, *Everett H. McCarty, Edward J. McCue, Har- old M. Messenger, Jr., Thomas J. O'Connor, Jr. *Walter J. Schulz, Fred M. Siegel, Charles W. Snell, ''Jack R. Staley, Granger Tripp, Richard T. Vinick, William L. Wilkin, Charles R. Wil- son, Norman N. Wrubel. Bachelor of Science - *John M. Duford, *George F. Hanson, H. Lawrence Howe, III, *William F. Wetterau. BS in Civil • Engineering-*Fran- cis J. Jankowski, Ronald G. Ma- comber, Frank J. Salamone. BS in Electtical Engineering- John L. Dutcher, Louis M. Loeb, Gerald P. Petersen, *Michael T. Seppanen, Harvey 0. Simmons, Jr., *Richard A. Swift. I Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6241 BREAD - ROLLS - PASTRY ~····································~··········· 5 CREAM-CREST 5 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5 Vitamin D Milk 5 • • • • • Supplies that needed energy for the • • • • coming winter months. • • • • • 5 GENERAL ICE CREAM CORP. 5 • • • For Service Phone 4-3121 ; BS in Chemistry-Harold P. Bod- enstab, Irving Goodman. CLASS OF 1944 Bachelor of Arts - ''Robert H. Barnes, *Martin J. Caplan, Byron W. Day, Joseph A. Drago, *Ronald B. L. Epstein, Thomal;l E. Hanigan, Jr., Robert P. Heywood. Edward L. Johnson, *Albert M. Kronick, *Nicholas Milano, *Sey- mour T. Pearlman, J0hn R. Pellet- tier, Albert B. Rinaldi. Daniel Witt, Robert L. Zell. Bachelor of Science - John L. Clowe, A r t h u r A. D e L o r en z o , Charles D. Lothridge, Franklin S. McKeever, Glenn M. Morris, *Vin- cent S. Palladino, *James E. Smith, II, Kenneth E. Snyder, *Clifford M. Tepper, Seymour Thickman. Engineering - Robert E. Acker, Stanley E. Aronoff, David Bo-ck, Clarence R. Droms, Karl J. Klar- man, John M. Schamberger, Philip Siskind, Judson Zimmer, Jr. BS in Chemistry-Jack Family, Barclay B. Fishburn, Edward J. Hennelly, John R. LaPann, Sey- mour L. Meisel, Lawrence Ritter, Jr., Jules D. Viglielmo, John M. Waner. BS in Physics-Herbert C. Brede- meier, Ralph W. Dressel, *Paul F. Yergin, Marshall C. Yovits, *Edwin C. Smith. CLASS OF 1945 Bachelor of Arts-Paul W. Beigel, Aaron Feinsot, John L. Grant, Mar- shall N. Heyman, Eugene E. Hoke, Lee E. Landes, David C. Mande- ville, *Robert McNulty. Albert B. Miller, Ruseell L. Mill- man, William D. O'Brien, David J. Platzer, Gary K. Price, Schuyler L. Seward, Harry T. Shaw, Jr., Charles F. Stewart. Bachelor of Science - Paul C. Black, Robert A. Boya1·, *Robert J. Brocklmrst, Rocco .1\., C>;~.ll;l,nc!n~ccio, Paul Glicksman, Seymour H. Glu- croft, Leon M. Harris, Marvin Isen- berg, Boris R. Kaufman, Oscar R. Kruesi, Robert J. O'Hara, Robert D. Sshamberger, Armand D. Ver- saci. Engineering- Andrew :M:. Ander- son, Jr., Robert A. Martlett. Harold R. Boroson, Donald H. tcarstens, *Edward J. Craig, Charles R. Eaton, *Peter J. Firra, *Tl).omas R. Hoffman, *Malcolm D. Horton, Rob- ert F. Lange, Kenneth J. Male, John M. Mason, *Alden Opie, Albert J. Taggi. BS in Chemistry-Frederick Bud- nik, James W. Coapman, *Joseph H. Dusenbury, James W. Herbert,· *Joseph B. Mann, Jr., William F. Marzluff, Silas B. Steinhart, Chester V. Zabielski. BS in Physics-*John A. McCar- thy. PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORK\S 206 Clinton St. Schenectildy . . . . . ~ r•••••••••••••i••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••·~ t==;:;;;;========;:;;;;;=dJ 5 It that men, the-ir cam-J lind ·and Fo fil:st wiH vesti curri a co: doub f.rom scho• wiH Unio ditio~ dote! ~ear: ity prep: Th of U the i pict~; class W·!PS you alit• r U1·6U ing. w. pictt CollE of y( Sept It ttair tour: gym boxi: getti Whe even mat( sleei He : nesd ing The cons nau~ 31 S' Tt and thos Wed di:oa cite I the is, u was wref Tho; on t a n She1 neal man Mac imrr pinr T! fron Cl'OV The and a.; l mat the best dem som lacll B\ mat fav< war (11; l ing cha.1 was AftE ed still mor on : V\i J. l der( owr was Bae for Yoll wor p awa Ma' trat goe: fea1 on you I

4 g SOl'S over of held the year fac- of the pose lied hich col- hese hers with And ices with lle11:e D1·. ~adiu in- hop to ion f Bod- H. igan, M. ellet- n L. S. M. ~o·ck, J. Sey- M. eigel, Mar- Mill- J. er L. c. J. Glu- Isen- R. obert Ver- nder- arold ens, ~ R. R. Rob- John J. Bud- ~bert,· F. cCar- dy s SPORTS FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1942 \bhJ.\ lfunrur.Otrn.at.u ) Review of Sports Boxing-Wrestling Tourna-ment Gets Underway It 'is with particular .pleasure that we welcome the 200 sub-fresh- men, many of whom are paying their first visit to our historic, old cam-pus. We hope that you will find the weekend an interesting ~ -------------- ---------· -------------- ·-- -- ---- ---·- ----------- IWvatt Confident 1 Of S uccessfu I ·and enjoyable one. 5 Titleholders To Defend (row·ns ln 15th Tourney 15 Bouts Scheduled For some of you it will be the til'st glimpse of college life. You wiH be interested, of course, in in- 1 vestigatil'lg matters pertaining to · curriculum and the atmosphere of II On Tomorrow's .Program; a college c!assiOom, which you no S 1 T\tl y t d doubt know is vastly di-fferent I evera. I· es aca e f-rom your prep school or hlgh The fifteenth annual wrestling sc_hool clasHoom .. The~, _too, . you i and boxing tournament got under- v.;ll! be mte1·ested ~n !ea1 ~-mg abo.ut 1 way on Wednesday eveNing in the Un_wn bet se·lf _he! h_Is_tm ~ and t1 a- ; : ,y::n with cnly one defending cham- dttlOns, her pet sonalltJes and ane_c· I pion in action. Tomorrow evening dot~s about -~ college melloV: m ; at 7:30 the eliminations will be ?ea1s. You v11ll_ have an oppmtun· continued. The flrst .round of the Jty t~ see Unwn athletic teams , !'lt>xing competition will begin while prepping for season openers. ! the wrestlers wiH go into the sec- Th1~ evenin_g tiWit> a-r.e a num-~er 1 • ond round. Ten \\'t·estling a-nd five of thmgs whtch you may do, f1 om boxing bouts are on the card. I the Spalding concen to the moving 1 Five champions and a former pictun•s. Tomonow thet·e will ·b£> tttlcholder have entered the tout·· cla,;sroom vi::;it.- and thP boxing and 1 nument, and four of them will seP 1 wt<>stling tcurnamPnt,;. On Sunday 1 ..,ct!c:>n tomorrow. Patsy Fretto will 1 you will have an opportunity to 1 ht' defending hi,; 145-155 pound 1 atlt·nd th .. rlm)•f'l c·xet<'i:<Ps. the 1 buxtn\ c.:tu\\n and among the con- 1 uq;an 1 ,·,·ita!, ·and tlw town meN- 1 tendc7:; fl:II thi,; ti.tJe are Bobby 1 ing. Haigh whom he outpointed 'in thP We hope that you will get a full Jinals last year. The other box- picture of col'lcgc life, of Union ing championships are open as no College life. \Ve hope to have many titleholders are present or entered of you with us either in June or in in the defense of their crowns. September. We like this place. I Maurie Deul has relinquished his bantamweight title because of a nose injury. Sal Mauriello is not back to defend his thrice won 155- It seems that Harold Boroson ttained faithfully for the wrestling toqrnament. He spent hours in the -gym running around the track, boxing and wresfling with others,- getting into condition for the bouts. When he went to bed on Tuesday evening he was all set for his match on Wednesday. 'But, in his sleep he wrenched his right knee. He spent the better part of Wed- nesday aftemoon in the gym hav- ing his knee ·bathed by Ed Fitz. The treatment worked, and his conscientious training was not for naught; he pinned his opponent in 31 seconds. * * 65 pound crown. George Bedell, runnerup to Mauriello for the last two years, will make his third bid for this title. Paul Santee has va- cated his crown as he is in the service of our country at the pres- ent time. Stewie Goldblatt, holder of the heavyweight crown will not defend his title this year. Wrasslers Four grunt and groan cham- pions are back to defend their laurels. Aaron Thai, twice winner in his weight class, will be favored to repeat again this year, and Scoop Dwyer, whom he met in the finals last year is also entered at the same weight. Bob Shepard, also a champion for two years, is The crowd likes a game fighte1, entered again in his weight class and it favor·s the underdog. Well, as is Lew Timpson, runnerup last those who a~tended the bouts on year in a close contest. Bernie Wednesday evening were not to be O'Neil, a third titleholder, will face disappointed. There was little ex- the competition in his weight class citement for the most part during after winning the crown for the the progress of the matches, that first time last year. Lee Sherman is, until the final match. Everyone will defend his heivyweight wres- was kidding Mac Larios; he was tling crown, but he will meet stiff wrestling the defending champ. competition since Stewie Goldblatt, Those who attended the bouts were who defeated him for the title on their feet before the match was three years ago is also entered in a minute old,-for Mac -had Lee this class as are Doug Slingerland, Sherman on the mat and he came John Adamevich, runnerlup two near pinning him. Finally Sher- years ago, and Art Gilmour, all man was able to emerge from football linemen. Greg McKennis Mac's hold and by sheer power he has vacated his light heavyweight immediately subdued Larios and I crown, but Joe Mudge, who was de- pinned him at 2:20. fea:ted by McKennis in the finals The crowd was behind Larios · last year, is entered again at this from the start of the match. The weight. crowd always loves . the underdog. Schedule for Saturday: They stood there m amazement and shouted encouragement to Mac a.; he got Sherm:\n down on tl:e mat. When Mac was finally pinned, the crowd knew that Mac gave :his best ... and almost won. It was a demonstration of courage and guts, something that others. better men lack. But there is anotltl'l' angle to this match. Sherman, admittedly the favorite land why not?), came for- ward with a smirk of confidence ,,,; his face. The rr·owd was laugh- ing land why not?), for what chance did Mac have? The crowd was looking fer an \exhibition.\ After cautious moves Larios charg- ed Sherman, and the smi-rk was still there. It disappeared a few moments later, when Sherman was on the mat. We all know the story of James J. Braddock. He, too, was an un- derdog. He raised himself by his own boot-straps, so to speak. He was signed to meet madcap Max Baer, the clown, :... better fighter, for the heavyweight championship. You all know the story. Braddock wor.. Perhaps we have been carried away by Wednesday's exhibition. Maybe we have. However, it illus- trates a point. Sometimes the story goes, there is greater glory in de- feat than in victory. This happened on Wednesday. Our hat is off to you, Mac Larios. Pleasant Valley Meat Market House of Sunshine Meat Products Wrestling Fraughton, Delta Upsilon, vs. Sommers, Phi Sigma Delta; Marz- luff, Kappa Nu, vs. O'Neil, Phi Sigma Kappa; Torry, Phi Gamma Delta, vs. Timpson, Kappa Alpha; Ha.rvey, Beta Theta Pi, vs. Brown, Kappa Nu; Shepard, Phi .Sigma Kappa, vs. Coapman, Delta Upsilon. Warner, Phi Delta Theta, vs. Bock, Delta Phi; Thai, Phi Sigma Delta, vs. Steffie, Delta Phi; Bakal, Phi Sigma Delta, vs. Slingerland, Delta Chi; Gilmour, Kappa Nu, vs .. Goldblatt, Phi Sigma Delta; Adam- zevich, Delta Chi, vs. Tracy, Phi Gamma Delta. Boxing LaPann, Neutral, vs. Limpert, Sigma Ph!; Hockman, Kappa Sig- ma, vs. Haigh, Phi Delta Theta; Tan, North College, vs. O'Brien, Phi Sigma Kappa; Bedell, Delta Upsilon, vs. Adams, Phi Gamma Delta; Harmon, Phi Sigma Kappa, vs. Greshman, Phi Gamma Delta. Harry James and His Orchestra • Easter Parade • Trumpet Blues • You Made Me Love You • I Remember You • I Don't Want to Walk Without You • Sky Lark • The Clipper • Trumpet Rhapsody at Cluett & Sons 508 STATE ST. Three Promine:nt Spri:ng Sports Figures lacrosse Season Results of Spring Trip indicate Potential Strength of Stickmen I Coach Fred Wyatt is quite op- 1 timistic about the chances of his I varsity ·lacro~se te:tm after their I \I>I'ing t1·lp in which thC'y won two games. lost thrPe, and tied one. I ThP Ga1·npt d<>fea tPd Baltimore I Poly, ont• of ·the best lacrosse I sc.hools in the <'OUntry, 9-7. and : Ft iPtH!s f\C'hnol. 10-7. Th<>V ln\t -to l _'iavy, 16-U; to Johns Hopkins. 9-1, and -to St. Paul's 'School, 11-8. They hac! to br' satisfipd with a 6-6 tiP ., I with Hu.tgPrs aftPr holding- a '6-2 . !Pad ·m th<> rlo><ing stages of the !gamE'. 1 ···•l:\?: 1 Coup!Pd with games were inten- ::p .. , ..... '\''\· ,.,,•.~<··•··\'\\\'-1 stve pt·a<'tiCe sesswns while on the 1 t np. \V1th •this pre-season train- ing, Wyatt expects the squad to come up to regular playing form Pictured above at the left is Bob Newton, captain of the La- cross!' team and a stalwart defpnseman. In the !'enter is Bill Kf'tz, cross-country and track coach, and din•ctor of th('o intramural athletic program. On the right is Ned RPilly, captain of thP hasl'- ball squad. in a short time. A tentative match with Yale University is schedu:led before -the regular season begins against Layafette here on April 11: Three other ma;tches will be play\ ed, with the possible addition of a contest with Williams, following Baseball Squad Looks Impressive Things look bright for :he var- sity baseball team, for Coach Art Lawrence has four good mound prospects, a veteran infield, and .vhat promises to bet a fairly good outfield despite the losses incurred through graduation and tht> Selec- tive Service Act. The hurlers who have shown up well in the three weeks of practice are Bruce Burns, a sophomore, Bob Bartlett and Dean Smith, both freshmen, and George Co-ley, a sen- ior who shared mound duties last year with iron man Roger Moran and Mike Fiester. The hurling staff was Lawrence's greatest concern when practice began, and the prob- lem seems to be settled for the mo- ment. Of course much more will be known when the team begins pract·icing on Alexander Field. In the infield, at the present time, it seems likely that one of last year's combinations will com- prise the starting group. Don Quigley is slated to hold down the first base post, CB:ptain Ned ReiHy will guard the keystone .sack, while Whitey Carnwright and .Zip Stein- gut will be stationed at shortstop and the hot corner, respectively. Of course the team w-ill miss Shortstop Mickey Rathlev who led the squad in batting last year. In the outfield veteran AI Rasso seems to be a certain fixture. The other two positions in the outer garden are still open, and Lawrence is still uncertain about these posts. He lost Tiny Weintraub through graduation, Hank Wysocki to the army, and Earl Raifstainger who did not return to school. Frank Jones, who patrolled center field, has been converted into a catcher. However, Bud Herman and Ed Al- len are showing signs of promise and may plug the gap in the outer defense. Besides Jones, there is Rocco Calandruccio who will be reserve backstop for the squad. Other men who will stay on with the team are Cliff Platt, Don Phillips, a re- serve fielder last year, and Reg- gie Carroll. Lawrence will weed out a few more men after the nine has practiced out of doors, but he is waiting to see how several men stack up on Alexander Field be- fore making his final cut. The Dutchmen will open a five game season on April 18 at Ho- boken against Stevens Tech. A home-and-home series has been ar- ranged with R.P.I.. with the first game scheduled in Trey on April 22 and the return engagement here on May 9. ----o--- First Round Mat Winners Results of Wednesday's wwes- tling matches: Fraughton, Delta Upsilon, pinned Smith, Phi Sigma Kappa; Som- mers, Phi Sigma Delta, won by de- fault from Jones, Kappa Sigma; Breed, Kappa Sigma, won by a fall from Morton, Phi Sigma Delta; Marzluff, Delta Phi, won by a time advantage over Clarke, Kappa Al- pha; O'Neil, Phi Sigma Kappa, won by a fall over Gowrie, Phi Gamma Delta; Torry, Phi Gamma Delta, pinned He-1ft, Kappa Sigma; Timp- son, Kappa Alpha, won by forfeit over Quinlan, Phi Delta Theta. Harvey, Beta Theta Pi, pinned Winne, Phi Sigma Kappa; Short, 1 Continued on Page 6) CLEANERS AND TAILORS UNITED SHOE REBUILDERS 114 State St. (Have Your Agent Call Us) Phone 4-5676 STRAUSS WALTZES in DANCE TEMPO I. Blue Danube 2. Vienna Bent 3. Southern Roses 4. Wine, Women and Song 5, Tales from The Vienna Woods 6. Voices of Spring 7. Emperor Waltz 8. Artist's Life ALBUM C-13 4 1 0\ Records-$2.63 • Barney's Record Dept. Trac:k Outlook Bri9ht Despite Weaknesses '\ 7 ith the first mPPl SPherllll..rl for April 9 on our board tr;,ck against the University of Verm.:>nt, Coach Bill Ketz is driving his run- ners and weight men hard in an effort to get them into mid-season form for the opening meet. The sprints are being well taken care of. and there is a host of mer1 to pick from for all the running events. Ketz has been pessimistic about his hurdlers, and he ha:s been looking for someone to re- place last year's captain, Jim Both- well. Freshman Tom Flynn seems to be the man Ketz has been look- ing for. Although F1ynn has been used to running the low hurdles ·.·ather than the high hurdles, Ketz is attempting to train him for the latter ·event also. The burden will fall upon the runners to provide the points if the trackmen are to come through with any victories, since the weightmen a•ren't showing up well. Phe difficulty of replacing several high and broad jumpers, pole vaulters, and a shot putter, has proved to be a difficult task. It i~ hoped that some of the mE'n work· ing out in the weights will be able to improve enough to score some points and soften the brunt which ·he runners will bear. ---0--- Managerl!hip Open All sophony•res interE>sted in be- coming· candidate managers of baseball arP asked to get in ·touch with Charlie Royce at the Phi Delta House. Only those sopho- mores who expect to complete their college course in four years are eligible for these positions. the decision to cut the schedule as a result of :the accelerated pro- gram for this aca-demic year. The defense will probably be as strong as that of last year's team despite the loss of Dud Holmes, last year's captain. Wyatt is ex- perimenting with Jim Gilmore, Hal Fox, a freshman, -and Lew Timp- son. Captain Bob Newton, Ed En- stice, and Bob Nothacker, all vet- erans, are available for defense posts. Wyatt also has Bob LaPann, an up and coming sophomore, and Van Thomson, who showed up re- markably well on the spring trip. Coupled with a prospective strong and veteran defense is an apparently strong attack. High scoring Freddie Wikoff and Ron- nie Macomber, both juniors, are expected to give a good account of themselves after their fine play last year, and Wyatt is banking upon them heavily. Brooke Tun- stall, a freshman, turned in mag- nificent performances in the trip and -led the scoring attack in sev- eral games. In the Navy game, it was only after he and Gilmore had been injured that the midshipmen were able to start their scoring spree. The most encouraging aspects so 1 Continued on Page 6) GOOD SHOES Since 1893 X-RAY FITTING PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Every College Has One ! A campus just isn't complete without a place to stop for a rest, a bite to eat, a good book, or a chat with your fellow students. That's what we're fere for. So fellows from '42 to '46 drop around. You're ~t.ways welcome. UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE North Wing-Washburn Hall DON'T FORGET YOUR EASTER CARDS! We've a Grand Selection! 586-592 Bro~dway PHONE 4-3181-2-3-4 ~==========~· ; ________________________ ~

FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1942 Union 'sPart In Radio Development Traced on Eve of 1 OOth Town Meeting <Continued from Page 4) Debate Government Broadcasting Control The Empire State Town Meeting GENERAL NEWS 6 Spo r t s Lacrosse Trip iWrestling Results 4 90 Prom Tickets Are Distributed For Campus Sale will celebrate its lOOth broadca.st <Continued from Page 5) i <Continued from Page 5) I Electric Company's Schenectady to the college the choice of sub- over WGY Sunday afternoon, from far a.re the stickwork, generaJship I Phi Sigma Kappa, won over Barry, station, WRGB. Union alumn•i ject and discussion leaders. A half 3:30 to 4:15, with a special pro- of the attack, and the dt·ive of the 1 Phi Gamma Delta, by a time ad- holding executive positions in these hour would be used on the radio, gram featuring a discussion of the squad in general. What was lack- vantage; Borosot:t, Kappa Nu, pin- Price Advance to $7.00 Schenectady radio and television compelling spea·kers to frame their question, \Wh•at Are the Proper ing on th etrip was a hard check- ned Roessler, Phi Delta Theta; Will Be Made on April 6· stations assisted the writer in or- arguments in ·the terse style de-. Limits of Government Control of ing defense, but Wyatt hopes to Smith, Phi Gamrna Delta, won 'by , • ' ganizing the Union College Radio manded by radio listeners. The Broadcasting?\ iron this out in practice. a fall over Fluker, Beta Theta Pi; Salesmen 5 Names Listed Workshop, which now operates its audience present in the Old Chapel Telford Taylor, of Washington, . Those men who have showed up Ryan, Delta Chi, won by a time ad- . . I own intramural radio broadcasting would participate in the discussion D. c., counsel fo rthe Federal well in practice and on the trip va·ntage over Trull, Delta Upsi.Jon; Marvm Epstem and George service on the campus after each speaker had presented Communications Commission, and include Van Thomson, Don Car- Mudge, Beta Theta Pi, won by a Weed, in charge of tickets for the · . an eight minute statement of his J d J h A B ··stens, Bobby Panoff, Brooke Tun- fall from Steinhart, Kappa Nu; Junl . 01 • Pt·om, have announced that Most favorable attention has u ge o n W. Van lien, of uf- Sh Ph' s· D. It · d V • ws The Sche ectad Forum sta·Jl, Fred W!'koff, Steve Ensko, erman, 1 Jgma e a, pmne come to the college throug·h two te · · n Y · falo, N. Y., general counsel for 490 tickets had already been dis- · . . · · Ser·v 1 'ce was to du·pl·J'ca\'e tra·ns- Ronn1'e Macomber, and· Bob La- Larios, Phi Delta Theta. of 1ts radiO programs the Em \ the Radio Manufacturers .Associa- tributed for sale. . · · . ' - CI't'pts of the dt'scuss\ons. The Pann Bes!'des· th m J'm Gt'l 0 p1re State Town Meetmg, and the • tion, wHl be the principal speak- · · e • 1 ·my · -~ Junior Prom tickets may be ob- Sunday chapel services. Because Union College News Bureau was ers. Kolin Hager, WGY station more, Lew Timpson, Da.ve Bock, In the Mail tained from Mrs. J~nkins at the , of the lOOth Town Meeting pro- to distribute the discussions to the manager, will address brief greet- Andy Comrey, and Charlie Thurs- Bookstore, Mrs. Bnggs at Hale gram coming Sunday, we shall press at:tcl. listeners. ings to the audience, while Presi- ton, and Karl Klarman, are show- To the Editor: House, and from the following fra- deal here with only its history. Naturally we are inclined to re\ dent Dixon Ryan Fox wHI act as ing up fairly well have tt> show a s· ternity, d. ormitory, and neutral rep- When tJ. S. Commissioner Stude- member predictions which have chairman. good deal more before the opener tr: t t \t \ t 1 't · · ____ .___ with Lafayette. It is a rare day when you find a resen a 1ves: baker launched his: nation-wide come rue -a east, 1 1s eas1er o- t all th B t U . , p In most of the contests the Gar- manufacturer advertising for the Alpha Delta Phi: ·Bruce May communi.ty forum organizational 0 rec em. u mons ro- U B S p· . net was defeated by sheer man- purpose of getting people to cut Alpha Phi Delta: Franlt Salamone campaign, S u .p e r intend en t of Wfe~sll~r B~npnettfon's diSscuhssion withf e • e ro~'~~rams power as ·two of .the teams met down on th.e .consum,p_tion of his Beta Theta Pi: Earl Goodrich Schools Pillsbury of Schenectady 1 lams ro essor c umarti:l o ':II th que t . n \Ar E Jan.d a d on the trt'p, for ex\mple had 45 P. roduct. T. Ius IS what ts now. tak- Cbi Psi: Kenneth S'harpe suggested the college provide fa- e s 10 · e ng ·~ n Friday March 27 ~ j 1 h 1 France actually ft \'ht!'na fOI' de ' · and 50 men aoogregatt'ons. Because mg P ace m t e paper towe mdus- D alta Chr' •, Sa·n1ual Ca·ppola cilities for a weekly forum which · \' \' · · - \' t M f t f I ~ ~ mocracy?\ t'n November 1939 re- 8:So-Information Please of the necesst'ty of creat1'ng suff1·- .ry. anu ac. urers . 0 . paper towe.- Delta Phi: George Weed , might also be broadcast. Under · · P d t Sented man Provocatl ·ve chat·aes 9:0o-Aimed to Please ct'ent t•eserve pO\\er Wya·ft is mg are ·sen tng no.· JCes to all thetr Delta Upsilon: Edward Green the title of \Town Meeting of the · Y · ... • \ • t t th t th that d evelopments have st'nce cot· 9:3o-March of Time WO!'k!'ng ha·r·d wt'th the new men cus om. ers reques rng a. e con- Kappa Alpha: Lewis Timpson Air,\ eight programs were held - t f t I b t roborated lO:Oo-Joe Loui9-.Abe Simon fight . who have just come out to .prac- sump ton o paper ov:-e mg e cu Kappa Nu: David Rosenblum under arrangements made by · ·tice, but he is also interested in down as much as posstble and that Rappa Sigma: Walter Breed Michael Hanna, then director of Occasionally the program depart- Monday, March 30 getting morE> freshmen to come out people be car.eful .fully to use Phi Delta Theta: Donald Giroux the Schenectady Forum Service ed from the two-discussion-leader•s 4:0o-Musical Moments t 1 b f d d th Th both from t\Je standpoint of per- owe s ' e ore tSc~r mg · em. · e ·Phi Gamma Delta: '\Vallace Mac- and now station manager of procedure to presenting a round- 4:1~Club Matinee ape tow 1 t th 1 Millan V\\HCU in Ithaca. table discussion by three or more 4:55--World News sonnel and to give them the ex- f r · e: now mduseb att ethco- P erience which will aid in prepar- ege are 0 . a gra e · e. er an Phi Sigma Delta: Norman Wrubel But the weekly programs requir- speakers. Union'·s English staff par- 5:0Q-Lest We Forget that found man bl c pi ing for next year. m Y P~ 1 · aces, Phi Sigma Kappa: Robert Shep- ed such a prodigous amount of ticipate-d in a roundtable discus- 5:15--Swing Session and a person can dry h1s hands on hard work the college was asked to sion of why there was so much 5:25-The Bookshelf one towel if he uses it carefully. Psi Upsilon: Charles Wilson handle the arrangements. This it cynacism in American literature. 5:3o-For Your Enjoyment 4:55-World News 1 The consumption of paper toweling Sigma Chi: John Dutcher was eager to do because, whatever Station IVGY's manager, Mr. 5:45-Sign Of.f 5:0o-Lest We Forget I at the college has been a little Sigma Plrl: William Wilkin the official sponsorship, a radio Kolin Hager, and its program man- 7:15-Campus Caravan 5:15-Matinee Melodies heavier than normal this year so Theta Delta ·Chi: Robert Carnrig·ht program originating on the cam- ager, Mr. A. 0. Coggeshall, have 7:30-News Here and Abroad 5:30-For Your Enjoyment I that we have had to reorder to in- South College: George Anderson pus was associated with the col- shown striking liberality in their 7:45-Sportscast 5:45-Sign Off sure supplies that will last until North CollE>ge: Gerhart L~>ubner lege by listeners. Important attitude toward the Empire State 7:50-The Band Parade - Benny 7:15-News of the World the end of the college year. Old Gym: Alberto Ruibal . changes in policy and procedure in- Town Meeting. Even when such Goodman 7:3o-From The Editor's Chair Factors contributing to the Neutrals: Ronald· Macomber, war- i augurated by the college in Jan- topics as the value of advertising 8:00-You Can't Do Business with 7:45-Campus News shortage of wood pulp papers for ren Herrick, Thomas Conner,, uary 1939 helped to make this an was to be earnestly attacked and Hitler 7:50-Band Parade-Charlie Spivak normal uses are a cutting off of John IiE>enan, Joseph Ledden outstanding radio program. defended, they interposed no re- 8:15--Platter Chatter 8:00-You Can't Do Business with wood pulp supplies from the Scan- . . . . \Empire State Town Meeting\ straining hand. The provide a corps 8:3o-Voice of Firestone Hitler dinavian countries, the use of wood Smce pnce of .ttckets . Wtll go was adopted as its new title and of radio engineers and an an- 9:00-Interlude in Rhythm 8:15-0n the Spot-Campus Quiz pulp in the manufacture of explo- fro.m $6.60 to $7.00 on Apr1l 6. Ep- public questions of particular in- nouncer, together with much equip- 9:3o-Classics of the World 8:3o-To Be Announced ::oives, and the volume of paper di- stem an~ W~ed urged studen~s to trest to New York State would ment for each program. But the 10:00-Sign Off 9:00-Salon Musicale rectly used by the expanded gov- buy the1r tickets early. Ttc~et 1 have precedence. Discussion lead- good-will earned for the station, 9:3o-NBC Symphony, Leopold l ernmental agencies and war indus- sal~~men have been asked to wrlte I ers would be authorities· on some of course, makes this public serv- Tuesday, March 31 Stokowski conducting tries. t~eu names on the .bac~ of each 1 . phase of the program's topic, but ice worthwhile. 4:00-Club Matinee 10:30-Sign Off Anthony Hoadley, Comp. ticket ~old an~ to turn m mo.ney preferably leaders not associated on Ap~>l 6. Ttcket representabv~s with the college. President Fox were tnstruc~ed n~t to buy then· would preside as chairman and own Prom ·bid unttl after the sale would be responsible for giving of tickets has been completed. each subject a fair hearing. Sta- Epstein and Weed expressed the tion WGY was to leave entirely belief that there will be a tremend- ous turn-out for Spivak's Prom. After having spoken to most of the fraternity representatives, Epstein and Weed found that an unusually large number of students expect to attend the week-end. C. S. Moody optometrist • Eyes Examined-Glasses Fitted 115 B'way Phone 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. I I Charlie Spivak • Stardreams • I Surrender Dear Dinah Shore with Freddie Martin 0 I Look at Heaven • I Can't Give You thing but Love Any- CASSEDYS 460 STATE ST. Let Us Serve You With the Finest MILK, CREAM, ICE CREAM and Other Dairy Products CLOVERLAND CREAMERY 919 STATE ST. PHONE 6-8104 I ~==~~~~~==~~~~: ·················································!' . -. i Gazette Press II,~ • • • • • •• • • • • II II 5 Printing 5 II II • • • • • • • • • • ···································~·~~···~··~··••! :!,llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll L: ~ § - - - - - - - - § Schenectady Engraving Co. § - - = = - - - - - - :: Engravers for The Coneordie11sls 5 - - - - - - - - - - 5 = ~ 147 Jay St. Phone 4-9002 s - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ;;lnnatnnmmnunnlllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllltlltlllllllltlllllllllliiiiiiF. There's satisfaction in knowing that the 6Y2,¢' revenue tax you pay on every pack of twenty cigarettes is doing its bit for Uncle Sam And, when you buy Chesterfields, you have the satisfaction of knowing you are getting a superior blend of the world's best cigarette tobaccos. This famous blend gives you a smoke that is definitely MILDER, far COOLER and lots BETTER-TASTING, Make your next pack Chesterfields. You can't buy a better cigarette. f'IRST TO FIGHT i• tlte mot!<> of th~ U. S. Marines. FiRST f~r <1 Mlfder, Belte1. Tast- irtQ ~motte is Chesterfield. J.JeP. M .. $2,000 ~ ore Than into the u.s. rr: OO A WEEK necessary fc asury For the 7l c- or one Week's ax .:~tamps Here's h output oF CL F. J w althis wovlr! h nesterfield or <~efense in vy ~ . s 2 oneyear• ~ ,080 SMA . ••· TORPEDo BO~~S S or ,200 37-mm A.IRCRA.FT . ANTI. GUNs l,aoo,ooo G;~ A.ND RIFLES Copynght 1942. L•c.c.ETT & MYERS ToBMCO CQ. w toe esi So Oi ter Me Vc I s ~~ h as llH id• bl~ we .sc: ho te1 th te1 ar wi th sh ml in th ar. w W< fa m w' be te at to te .\.] lH su th ar ()! ca Ul of tr \\' ft \\' p hi p .,, u c w a1 e· 5( F rr s tl rr a ' . • j tl 0 ]( v n r

6 ad- pin- 'by _ Pi; a:d- a Nu; nd a the cut his tak- their con- cut that use The col- than on fully. little so in- until the for ff of wood di- gov- co c.. Scholarships A·vailable For Summer ·Term Bulletin WASHIN'GTON - The War Department announced today that Robert D. Ever· est, '37, formerly with the Socony Standard Vacuum Oil Company, had been in- terned by the Japanese a.t Manila. • trusts In This Issue: Increased speech work for freshmen may be recom- mended; Larrabee battles Yale poet in verse, Page 2. Elective course schedule is presented, Page 4. The Student Newspaper of Union College Vol. LXV. No. 47 Editorial 4-0133 I'IIOXF.S': Press 4·H41 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 1942 Price Sc Five Course Minimum Is Set For AU Upperclassmen ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------~ Extra Wo·rk Replaces Allowance I Sup·rise Action i Save Library Field 1 Radio Club, Radio Workshop Joined l·nto S.ingle Group Is Made Public I In Assembly Today State Scholarships As Well as College Grani·s Will Be Paid In the intel'ests of preserv- ing the sod of Library Field for Iuter use in lacrosse games this spring, the coll<.>ge has re- quested that students refrain from using the still soggy turf there for informal softball con- tests. Anthony Hoadley, col- lege comptroller, said yesterday that he expected that in a week or ,;o the field would be dried sufficiently to allow the game:> llllnion Radio Station Will Be Known as UCRS, Whieh Is Tal<en from Club Name ~~~-=~um~ __ _ ______ --1 Union's two radio organizations, In an announcement which came as a complete surprise to every 0 • c 1 b T. the Radio Club and the Radio member of the Student Body, Pres- ut·lng U' urns I Workshop were joined into one, ident Fox said during Daily Assem- 'U ' , ' , the Union College Radio Soc.ie.ty, bly this morning that the college b• . 1 d • 1 with the. approval of a ne\:\, J?mt would make full payment of all Ca· l·n 8 u I In g I con~titutwn by both orgamzatwns ,;cholarshi·ps to present sc.holarship · · , · durmg the last two weeks. ~~~!~rs attending :the summer· Fu·nd' lnt·o Bonds co~~t~t~f:~o ~;~~b ~~~~s~da)~.hew~~~ : , , · members of the RadiO Workshop The scholarships will be paid on voted in favor of .the federation the basis of one fuH semester's at- Group to Spend $1,000 yesterday. tendance. Thus, full tuition schol- For Defense Savin«;~s, One of the first effects of the arships, regularly valued at $400, ccmbination will be the change to- will be worth $200, full tuition for Will Build Cabin Later night of t!le call letter,; of UBS, the summer term. Smaller scholar- b f h The sum of $1,000 will be ap- now operated by mem ers o t e ships will be granted accordingly. plied by the Outing Club toward Radio Wor~shop. to UCRS. The announcement of the pay- the purchase of United States De-~ T?e ?onstl'tutwn of the new or- mPnt of scholarships was regarded fense Bonds. club president Ger- gamzatwn was drawn up by a in student circ-les this morning as hard Leubner '43, announced yes- I joint committee compos~d of t~e the most important made since the terday. Appro.priation of the money offcers of both groups. The Radw announcement of the summer term. for use in the national war effort Club was represented by Robert Whether or not the scholarships was ratified by the Executive Com- Reid '42, president; Donald Wells would be paid has been the main mittee of the oro·anization at a re- '42, Vice-President; Harry Stevens factor ·in delaying the decision of cent meeting. Leubner said that '42. Business Manager and Secre- many undergraduates as to the club would probably buy a tary; and Donald Eldred '42, f,or- whether or not they would return. $1,000 bond at its present cost of mer. pres1dent. Myron Mll.ls 42, Although no confirmation could J $750, and then make up the 1·e- presr~ent; .and Paul Yergm '44, be obtained, student observers in- mainder of the sum allotted in techmcal d1rector, represented the terpreted the move as a last-ditch bonds and stamps of smaller de- operators of lJBS. attempt on the part of the college nomination. :-;ociPty's ActivitiPs to bring to a higher le¥el the at- The club's decision to buy de- tendance at the summer session. fense bond·s came out of the ac- Activities of the new club will be .\Hhough the administration has 1 quisition of the money from the under the general direction of a never ,;een fit to announce the .re- I insurance policy which covered r,resident, who will be assisted by suits of the poll taken to determme I the damage in the destruction by three managers, one for each spe- the extent of summer term attend- fire of the Outing Club cabin, cific phase of the work. These men ance, it is generally believed .tha:t I \Skihaben at North Creek last will include a Business Manage·r, a only a few undergmduates md1- fall. The Executive Committee Technical Manager. and a Program cated their intention to return. considered it advisable to \put Director. The granting of scholarships will u.way\ the money thus obtained Operation of the station, now to undoubtedly mean the attendance until after the war, when condi-~ be known as UCRS, will be only of a fairly respectable portion of I tions may ma.ke it possible for the one of the new club's activities. the eligible students, although group to realize their plans of Others will include the public ad- without scholarship aid it is doubt- i building a new cabin. The bonds, dress system work now being hand- ful whether the summer session 1 at maturity, will be translated into led by the Radio Club, and, when would have had a large enrollment. j cash, which will, at that time, be the war-time ban on amateur ----o 1 used in a new building fund. short-wave stations is lifted, the Prom Broadcast Planned 1 In taking this action, the Out- opet·ation of the former Radio ing Club becomes the first campus Club's short-wave station. The music of Charlie Spivak and organization to make such a move I This move represents the first his orche<tra at t~e 1942 Jun!or 1 towud aiding the wa·r effort .. A ch~nge in the R~dio Club's organi- Prom will .be earned by statwn i small number of bonds have been : zatronal set-up !'mce th<.> club was \VGY between 11:30 and 12:00 on 1 purchased by various fmternity 1 founded in 1920, at which time it the night of the dance, the Prom houses, but no action of this mag- II was one the few such clubs in Committee announced yesterday. nitude has yet been undertaken. . the country. Dancers At Prom To Be Serenaded By Songs Of Spivak 'Stardusters' ~y Rohert Nemeroff, '43 <S>-- \The members of Spivak's outfit I were the cleanest-looking, nicest, and most f~iendly player.s ~e h~ve 1 ever come 1n contact w1th wl'ltes 1 \The Ti&er\ school paper of Clerr.- son Co:legP whei <' Spivak pin~ Pd in February. 1 can support this state- ment, for I spent four hours with Spivak and his outfit. They cer- tainly were a swell group of )Oung musicians, eager to cooperate in an\' way. For example, I wc:s' op~aking. to Curt PUln<>:I. one of the \Stardusters\, and he was I obliging enough to give me the fol-1 lowing information on Spiva!{'s vocal group composed of three 1 tr.ale vcice,; and one female . I I The males. Glen Galyon. D1c \ \v~ !del, and Curt F-urnell were all born in Springf.ield, Illinois. The three went through grade school and grammar school together. They iilst star ted singing together one . evening at a chu1 ch party just for: fun. Thinking it sounded good, ! they practiced in earnest for a 1 chance to sing over the Springfield I staticn. Alter broadcasting over 1 the local ;.tation for about a ~ear, they went to St. Louis and audi- tioned at radio otation KMOX, using their first names as a trade name for the gtoup- \Curt Die[{, and Glen\. Thev had the Chevro- let Company as· a sponsor, \which i was what we needed to satisfy us I that we really had something sale- able, if we worked at it\ said Pur-1 nell. 1 In 1935 they came east to Fa!-~ mouth Heights, Cape Cod, Mass .. (Continued on Page 3) ----- ~---- --------------------- Spivak's Vocal Group Council Meets Tomorrow To Nominate '43 Members Nomination of men to the popularly-elected positions on next year's Student Council is the principal Item on the coun- cil's agenda for tomorrow eve- ning when the council holds its regular meeting in Old: Chapel at 7:30. President Abraham Do1·sman said yesterday that nominations will be made by the council tomorrow night in orde1· that the elections may be run off during daily assem- bly periods in the near future. Council-members in Category \B\ are elected in this man- ner. In addition, Dorsman said that the docket for the meet- ing included a consideration of the possibilities of forming a \skeleton council\ which would hold office during the summer, and other problems ansmg from thE' summer s<;!hool ses- sion. Fate of 'Garnefs' Sitting Fees Left To New Group Furlong, Rosenblum, Bennett Will Dec:ide Given As 'Concentration Cr·edit' ~Faculty Committee on Education Approves :Change, Affecting Classes of '43. '44 f Addition of an extra course to the schedules of all upper- ' class students who, under current conditions are taking but i fom·, was ratified by the Faculty Committee on Education ; yesterday afternoon, it was announced last night. Five 1 courses will be required of all members of the classes of 1943 and 1944, the first two classes to be affected by the new measure. The course added to upperclassmen's schedules will take the place of the so-called \concentration credit\ which had formerly made the four-course system possible. The committee's action of yesterday afternoon came about in an effort to equalize the load carried by men taking the new three-year plan and those taking the regular four-year course of study. This was considered advisable since men taking· the three-year plan are already required to take five courses. Details of the plan which will affect nearly half of the student body of the college were unavailable for publication at this time, but it is expected that advisors will be able to furnish details to students this week as they make out schedules for next fall. V:~t::~e::on~;t::e\ ::~d:~ar. Garis Announces Stage Appointments ~gt~:m~:er~ ~:i~h:~e~~~rb~:as~ 5 f~~ For 147th Commencement Exercises their individual photographs for the \1942 Garnet\ will be decided ~ Names of the ten highest rank- Thutsday afternoon by a spe·cial Tax Comm·.ttee I ing seniors, who will sit on the committee appointed at the March . stage during the 1942 Commence- meeting of the Publications Board. 1 ment, were announced today by held la<:t Friday. Names Haninan I Dean Charles F. F. Garis. Eight of The committee consists of Joseph ':» the group were recently elected to Furlong, '42, chairman of the Stu- associate membership in Sigma Xi dent Tax Committee, David Rosen- Sophomore Is Selected and four are members of Phi Beta bloom. '43, Business Manager of As 1942-43 Secretary: Kappa. the \Garnet\, and Co-ordinator of Weed Made Senior Member I .one of the ten stage ap!lDintees Student Activities William W. Ben- Wlll be chosen soon to deliver the nett. Thomas E. Hanigan, Jr., '44, was valedictory address -at the c?llege's Representatives of the \Garnet\ appointed secretary of the Student l47th Commencement exercises on have pointed out that, in awarding Tax Committee for 1942-43 last May 11. the photography contract for the week, by Abraham B. Dorsm~n. '42, T~e list, annou:J?-ced by De~n yearbook, they had but four com- president of the Student Council. Gans m alphabetical order, m- panies among which to choose. All George B. Weed, '43, was appointed clud~s. the follo~ng students: four of these companies stipulated Senior Member of the committee at Wllham Macmcol Daly of Sche- the one dollar sitting fee. It was the same time. 1 n~cta~y, candid::t~ ~or the A.~. de· pointed out further that to refund Dorsman's appointments were I g~ ee m . the _DlV1SIOn of Scrence, the money collected thus far for made upon recommendations voted S1gma X1, Phi Beta Kappa. sitting fees would cause a serious by the present members of the Tax II Robert Wilder Davison, of Provi1 deficit in the \Garnet\ budget. Committee following a series of in- dence, R. I., candidate for the de- On the other side of the picture, terviews last Thursday. 1 gree of B.S. in Phy~ics.' Sigma Xi, opponents of the sitting fee have Hanigan will automatically be-~~ mem~er of the Ph1 S1gma Kappa accused the \Garnet\ staff of fail- come chairman of the T'ax Com- fraternity. ing to make any attempts to bar- mittee for the year 1943-44, accord- 1 De~phis Clark Goldberg of Tro?', gain with the photography con- ing to Tax Committee procedure. i cand1d:'lt.e. for the A:B. deg~ee m cerns for the elimination of the He is a resident of Schenectady. the Drv1s10n of Soc1al Studres•, a fees. They complain further that and candidate for a Bachelor of member of the Kappa Nu frater- no satisfactory explanation of the Arts degree in Social Studies. nity and Phi Beta Kappa. fees was made to the seniors be- 0 ____ Viiilliam Rogers Kruesi of Evan- fore they were collected. ston, Ill., candidate for the degree Other business transacted at the AII·Music Program Planned of B.S. in Electrical Engineering, m<.>eting included approval of the fligma Xi, a member of the Sigma temporary appointment of Granger For E:rster Chapel Service Phi Society. Tripp, '43, as Executive Editor of 1 u . b th 11 h . . 11 1 Richard H£>nry Marvin, of Balls- \Th I ' 1\ E C G '43 Ch . ' ... uslC y ' e co egE! c Oll' Wl t L k d'd t f h d e ao . . reen. , air· i provide the . f t f th on a e, can 1 a e or t e e- man cf the quarterly explained 1 1 E t S d maClhn ela ure 0 · et g1 ~'<' of R.S in Civil EngirtE>e!-iilg, . . as er Un ay ape Set VICE' neX S' X' I ~hat the appomtment would I emam 1 Sundav morning. thE> Reverend 1 lg~a l. . m e!fect unt1l the regula! ~taff 1 H b · t R H ht J 'd th' \'1cholas F1 anc1s ~1orelli of I elections of the magazine next I erkerTh · ou.gll bon. r .. sal IS 1 Catskill, candidate for th A B de- wee . ere w1 e no sermon. • . th D' . . . fe s' . · month. i Th 8 ·n b d 1 d gree 1n e !VISion o c1ence, __ _____ 0 _ _ e progr m Wl e mo \'\' Sigma Xi Phi Beta Ka a • • 'along the lines of the all-musica I S 1 m ' p f PPS · t Communion Servl ,.e Ch . . . o o on enner o ara ega .,. · n~tma~ ~<>rVl<'f' wh1ch ha~ Jc•ng s ·in d'd t f th d • • , been a popular feature of the an- · pl gs. ~an 1 a~ or · .e egre~ Friday Evening at 8 I nual Christmag music festivals. of B.S. m Chemistry, ~Igma Xl, . . This will be the first time on I n:ember of the Kappa Nu frater- The t~lrd an~ual ~ood: Fnday which the choir's singing of sacr<.>d i Dlty. Communwn Serv1ce w11l take place 1 1 t' h 1 d th usual Hart'y Earle Stevens of Schenec- 1 Friday evening in Memorial Chapel s<.> ec wnst · as ,;eptace · . e - ·lady, candidate for the B.S. de- . 'sermon a an ~as er serv1ce. The . . I at 8 o clock. Sponsored and ~r- , move was occa~ioned b the 0 u- ~~·ee in. Ele~trlcal Engmeenng, 1anged by the College Chr1s- 1 ··t, f th Ch . . Y •. p p i\tgma X1, Phi Gamma Delta fra- tian Association, the service is, as I all :1' 0 e r.lstmas sel VIces.. : ternity. h 1 Complete deta1ls of the muswal 1 • usual, open to all. members of t e i program tor the service will be , ~anford. Pans. Thompson of College commumty. Edward P. I t d . th F 'd d't' f T11bE'.s H11l, cand1date for the de- Fl . 1 • 42 h t d h . presen e m e r1 ay e 1 10n o f R S . h . . . I 1ege , , as ace us c a1rman Th C d' . · gTPP o .•. m P ys1cs. S1gma X1, 1 of the committee in charge of ar- : e on cor lensls. ! a m!'mber of th£> Sigma Chi frater· I ranging for the service. i ---o-- --- 1 nity. The service will include a num- 1 'Playboy' Tic:ket Sale Begins Ciayton L£>o \\'illinms of Sloans- her by the College Choir, which will 1 :ville, candidate for the A.B. degree sing Arcadelt's \Ave Maria.\ The , Ticl{ets for the Prom per.form- 1 in the Dl\·ision of Literature, Phi Rev. Herbert R. Houghton, Jr., ancE' of \The Pia~ boy of the Vii est- R<.>tn Kappa. chaplain of the college and the i ern World\ go on sale this week at: ---- --o --- Rev, Clark v. Poling, pastor of the I the student activities office, an-I Hiltick Levine Leav First Reformed Church of Sche- nounced Edward Fliegel, business ' e nectady, will be the officiating 1 manage1· of the Mountebanks. A I James S. \Sherry\ Hillick, '42, clergymen. 1 student may have two tickets for 1 left college on March 9, in order to The Christian Association has 1 this performance reserved in his 1 enlist in the Naval Air Corps, ac- announced a new slate of officers 1 name at the box office for fifty cording to a Dean's Office report who took office following the 1 cents plus tax, upon showing his l this week. spring vaca-tion. They are Robert 1 prom ticket and his athletic card.; Leonard Levine, '42, left college \V. Withington '43, president; Lee 1 This price is only for the first hun- 1 March 18, to accept a position as Landes '45, \'ice-president, and 1 . dred students who apply for tickets. 1 Junior Physicist in the U. S. Navy David C. Mandeville '45, secre- 1 and students may reserve blocks of 'j Yard, Philadelphia, Pa., Naval Air· tary. seats for their fraternities. craft Factory.

TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 1942 :\l~emlJcr of the A:;o;udate<l Collegiate Preoti a ncl dis· Hi but or of t'ht' Collt~giaH:' I }Jgt':->t Ut.\pl t'~t:'ltted 1'01 :\a tiona! ,\dvertismg IJ~· :-\atlullal .:\d veru~ing .::)crv· tc~. llll'., Cullege l'u!Jli::;h· ers r!epl't'St•lltUtl\'t, 4~0 ~ladb-utl Aveuut:. :\ew lUI'li City. Uinnrnr -- ----------------- [·)diturial UJ'fice, Sillimau Hall. J..;,ulou College. l'u!J- ltt!atiutJ Uff.iet-, The ·Ga- lett'e Pre~~·. 3~·1 ;-itate ~t. icJ.tered ill the Suheuec· ltHIY l)u~l Offi<'e a-B :-5et·- oud Cia>>; ;\'la-il ~latter. sul.Jscriptiuu 5e a l'U!JY: $3 }\ar: dellverell anywhere til .the t:nited l:ilat..:>. ·\·\ :-.; Alil:'i (; 110.\ Hll .Jtolll'rt 11. llll)Ja•r ....................... I>dta J.:p:;ilun l!uu,;c~-i-79~~ ............................. Etlitor·iu·Chief Jn~till l'er-htl'in ...............•............ Kappa :\u liuu\' --l-7331. ..................•...... llu,im·.s Jlanag·el' tiranger TriiJJl •...................... I 'hi Slglll•t KaJlJl:t I'>•>U~• l·+•i3ti, .......•............... )lunar,;-ing Editor I! a I'll') .J. Fi,hiJont• .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. . Kappa :\u HullS<'· --!·7331 ................................. Spurts Etlltor \\altPt J. ~t·hulz . .. . .. .. .. . .... I Suttt-h Set·tron, .:'\ortu L'l>lkge- ti-~900 ...................... Feature I·:dltor ~\' mtJur Tl•l<•kn•an ..................... l'h1 ;:-;,gum l>dtu li•·U><--•i·U7·o;i ......................•. Chief Copy Editor ;-.,;rman \\, J·ux ......................... :',gma l'hi !'!.«·• !-ti~~l ......................... l'hotogntJ)hi~ I·:tlltor ( ·opy Bunni Htcnard l'onl:, ~talllt.:'f titL ... t:'ll, AlLcl t Kronieli, lit~orgc .\'ltdlllt•Jilb:-, ,\lln-n ~aubt•rtH:, :Saul ~lPts~..·l. .J m_nh t i·• ·~d~tl•lll~. 1\1111:-- l{.auimaii, .Stla:::. Stdit~ ll.t n. J Uhll .\l:t.\i011 .Jn~t·pll ll:.tl'lllUlt, ThJ'lllU.S llufllnuu. J: u\illl:\'\\ Shtif-~lt'lvillt' ?\h~:-.~eHgt'l·~ I )a\ id Hu:,eubluJn, .ll,tl\·llt t'ranlt-'1' l'·hutugJUiJ!Jit• lloard--Leu11 Jucolli;uu, Jerome \\'clll· A WISE MOVE In the consolidation of ef:.'nt v;hich has been effected in the \ama:gamation\ L f the Radio Club and the l'nion Broadcasting Sys- tem. a good many 1Jene1its both to the two organizations and to the college may be clearly seen. First, UBS will receive some sorely needed technical help which should prove a distinct aid in organizing the station fo1· better and less laborious program-production. Also, the Radio Club. in UBS, will find u much-desired active outlet for the intel'esb of the mem- bers of the clttb. Second. the college should expect to re- ceive additional improvements in l 1 BS's daily prognuns, improvements to supplement the expansion of schedules announced last week. Fo1· the HlOl'e materialistically minded, we should like to point out that, since the ef- forts of these two student tax-supported organizations \Vill now be concentrating their effo1·ts toward one end, the students will actually be getting mot·e for the money they g-ive toward the sl:lpport of the groups. Third, an unnecessary organizational \overlapping\ in the fields between the two groups has now beeH eliminated. A good ma::y fields -of interest were included in both groups' programs. Now, the efforts of both \\'ill be directed along parallel, instead of di- vergent lines. The step taken by the two bodies is one which is undoubtedly an in1portm~t one in the progress of radio as an institution at Union. The college has gained considerable notice in radio before, it is true, but always through other channels. Now, the radio in which the college is primarily to be inter- ested will be an \all-Union\ affair, from one end to the other, from transmitter to re- ceiver, from announcer to listener, from stu- dent to student. WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE7 Admirable is the word for the Outing Club's decision to put the funds it gained through the no\v-famous \Skihaben\ fire into the purchase of Defense Bonds and Stamps. It may be that this is the first op- portunity of this type that has been offered to a campus group. or it may be that the feeling of 1·esponsibility in the war effort is l.Jeginning to be felt here. but. whatever the reason, the Outing Club's action is some- thing which has been absent long enough from the Union scene. Other colleges have taken various steps in contributing to the drive to victory, but Union has, until now, done nothing. The UOC's move may be just what was needed to start the ball rolling. The story of the Club's decision is an in- teresting one. After the cabin at North Creek was burned, it was thought that, with the insm·ance money, a building fund for a new cabin might be started. The possibility of building fairly soon was even considered. Then came war and all the resulting diffi- culties entailed in such a p1·oj ect. Yet, the Club never lost its desire some day to build a newer, better cabin. Thus, when the money from the insurance actually came through, the club's executive committee, realizing that immediate building was an impossibil- ity, decided to put the money where it \could not be touched\ until such a time when building would be possible: namely, into de- fense bonds. in this alone. the club's leaders showe(( a good deal of wisdom and foresight. aside from the admi1·able nature of their purchase. If the matter ends with the purchase of $1,000 in bonds, however, we shall be more than a little disappointed. We do not know how a \Buy Defense Bonds\ campaign should be organized here for it to be most efficient. Perhaps it is a matter for Student Council consideration, perhaps not. How it is done is not important as long as the method chosen is the most efficient one possible. Yet, we do not feel that the desirability of such a movement can be too greatly empha- sized. :\or can we stress too greatly the im- portance of promptness in \doing something about it.\ IF YOU WAKE UP TOMORROW If you wake up tomorrow morning· and find- That th~ buildings across Union Street from the campus are not 1·ed any more, but a heavenly blue, That the tennis courts are dry enough to play on and are beautifully and symmetri- cally lined with white. That \The Gamet\ will be out in four >veeks, That the war is over and )rlacArthm· is in Tokyo, That you've won the Bailey Cup, Or that the term paper you think is due in just twenty-four hours is really not due for a ·week, That there's no such thing as an eight o'clock class, That there's a special delivery for you downstairs with a juicy check for Prom, If that happens, turn over and go back to sleep, and remember the elate-April 1. UCRS Tu~>sday, March 31 4 :00 Club Matinee 4:55 -World News 5:00- Lest \Ve Forget !\ :1!\ Matiilrr :Vfelodies 5:30 -For Your Enjoyment 5:45 ·Sign Off 7:1:S News of the World 7: 3J From the Editor'~ Chair 7:45 Campus News 7:50 Band Pa1·ade Cha11ie Spivak 8:00 - You Can't Do Busines: With Hitler 8:15 On the Spot Campus Quiz 8:30 --To Be Announced 9:00 Salon \-fusicale 9:30- NBC Musicale 9:30 -NBC Symphony, Leopold Stokowski Conducting 640 On Your Dial WPdnPsday, Apl'il 4:00-- Musical Moments 4:15-Club Matinee 4:55- World News 5:00 Lest We Forget 5:15-Swing Session 5:25-The Bookshelf 5:30- For Your Enjoyment 5:45 -Sign Off 7:15- Campus Camvan 7:30---Light Classics 7:40 -Sportcast 7:45 Upton Close, Commenta- tor 8:00 You Can't Do Busine>s With Hitler 8 15 -Glee Club double quartet K 30 -Echoes of the Opera 9 00 American Melody Hour 9 30- -Classics of the World 10 00 Sign Off Thursday, April 2 4 :00-Club Matinee 4:55 -World News 5:00 Lest We Forget 5:15 New Releases 5:30-FOl' Your Enjoyment 5:45-Sign Off 7:15--Carnpus Caravan 7:30 --News Hear and Abroad 7:45-Carnpus News 7:50-Band Parade -- Glenn Miller 8:00- You Can't Do Business With Hitler 8:15--Norm Fox at the Piano 8:30-Interlude in Rhythm 9 :00--0n the Record 9:30 - Classics of the World 10:00-Sign Off EDITORIAL 2 1--------~h~---c~~-~~-i;--G-;;~-~-------! ! \~ ~~~~ t------------------------------------------------1 II Ed Kelly . . . . . Edmund G. Kelly '41, last yea;r's DRAMA ~l!rectwn IS first rate and the cast manager Gf the Glee Club was On_ th~. S~·een -· L_eg. ar~ and IS perfe~t. . .. . .• 1 back on the college grounds over othe1 femmme st ~ff distmgu~~h t~e .t:- .. FI ench f_Ilm, The ~a1{ei s the weekend. Ed, who has been re- two weekend movie tenants, Roxie Wife , shpped mto town quite un- leased from the A ·my is . 11- Hai t\ at Proctor's and \Bahama obtr1:1sively about two weeks ago. in woolen oods 1 His' bi no~ ~e . Passage\ at the State. The former. Starring that magnificent chara·c- is g that theg gov~rnmentgge~ll ea~ ldapted from the play \Chicago\, ter actor, Raimu, it is a film of hi'm out f b . twht pu . . . . . o . l:lSiness a~ ·. ey are IS a•bout a cut~ little flapper of that, great ch~I·m and G?'lhc ~V·lt. Carole now taking almost all the woolen bygone era who escapes a murder 1 Lombard s last mohon picture, \To output of t-h . 0 t rap and gets a milUon dollars· Be or Not To Be\ i~ flO en.t('rtain- Ed 0 tim~ tc_ un ry. t d worth of publicity. Ginger Rogers in.g :=py story laid against the ;back- tha~ 'th! bi 'sh~rdasw~;:l~t·, w 1 ~e:n~~· ~s struts about, and the whole thing :ground 0f a n0t so entertaining hard as it g a. p · t d f , H jangles lik·e an upt·ight piano. The 1 ' war torn Poland. Miss Lombard ·tudents w s am e 01 co ege latter presents a slimming Made- and Jack Benny perform their \' · line Carroll in a pa•rt that 1 equil·es parts with skill and the deft c0mic Second Lieutenant her to do no more than strike seme touch of director Ernst Lubitsch is Jantzen model poses. We were also much in evidence although geo- hap·py to note that this is Stirling graphically misplaced. Hayden's last picture. Henry Bellamann's best selling John Kilcoin '39, was also on the campus ovet the weekend. A sec- ond lieutena:nt in the Signal Corps, John reported that his necessary uniforms set him baC'k over $300. The Students And now to turn from these two novel, \King'.s Row\ has been minor colossal offerings to four made into a,n arresting and faith- outstanding flickers· that we were : fully transcribed photoplay by unable to review because of spring I Casey Robinson. P10bably not recess. They have aheady done ideal!:~- suited to the medium of the their first rmming in Schenectady, movie camera as screen entertain- Research but you might be able to catch ment, it hao been given a very them P.t the Plaza, Strand, and the pai·nstaking production by Sam Ii'ke. \Woman of the Year\ star- Wood. Outstanding in the cast are ring Spencer T·racy and Katherine I Ronald Reagan and Ann Sheridan, HepbUl'n, is a hig·hly amusing pic- with Claude Rains, Robert Cum- tUl'e with that rare Hollywo0d I mings, Bett~ Field. Chai·les Coburn, phenomenon, an inte!Hgently writ- and Nancy Co: e:.1an giving intelli- ten script by Michael Kanin and gent per-formances. Ring Lardner, Jr. George Stevens' - -S. G. A second major use of the ma- chine i~ to play recordings f1·om a , t:brary being built up by the de- Freshman Speech w k M I ' partment. They now have such o,r . ay ncrease works as Orson Wells' Mercury theater productwns of \M-acbeth Experimental Program Has 1 \J.ulius Cae8~1·, and \Twelfth 0 • Night,\ Mam1ce Evans' Shakes- Been Carr1ed on .inch.11dmg pearean 1·eadings, Archibald Mac- Personal Voice Recording Leish's \Air Raid,\ and recordings in Old English and Middle English Recommendations for a perman- of such works as Beowulf and ent program of incorprating speech Chaucer. work in the Union College fresh- A new section of the library has man English program may be modren poets such as Carl Sand· made to the Faculty Committee on burg rpading their own poetry. Sev- Educa,tion at the end of the year era! examples of British dialects from experimental studies which are also included. Theo·e recordings have been carried on for a year by at·e used not only in freshman the college English department. classes but also by advanced classes Gordon A. Rust and Cadman studying Shakespeare and English Hislop have been directing the pre- literature. liminary use of recordings in The trird use which is the ba:;iE teaching speech with the coopera-1 for th!s year's experiments is in tion of the entire English depart- recordmg the vmces of students ment, including Professors Burges and by \letting them hear how Johnson, Raymond ~- Herrick D. ~hey sound\ help th?m. in correct- Richard WPeks and Harold W. mg errors of enunciatiOn, pronun- Blodgett. ciaticn, articulation, m on o t on e, The threefold experimental pro- :numbling, slurring, and other gram has beer. carri::!d on with a fm mo of careless speal;:ing. Wilcox-Gay recording machine for This work lS al lbased on the a year after similar work had thesis that \you don't know how proved successful in other colleges. your voice sounds until you've In keeping with Union's poHcy heard it.\ according to Mr. Rust. of liberal education, it was thought -- o---- -- best to give speech work within the f1 eshman English cour~e which is compul,m·y for all students. 1 ather than to give special speech Furlong Asks Payment Of Senior Class Danes courses. An extt·a-curricular course Joseph Furlong, acting president Paul ·Kummer, '43, is going to P10m because of the generosity of an unamed ,defense industry. Kummer· was in the office of tlw company, for which he is going to work this summer, talking to the secretary about his work. ''I'm go- ing to ·do some· work in the state library in Albany,\ he t0ld the sec- retary. \Good said the company offi- .:ial. \let me give you some spc>nd- ing money.\ .So he sat down and wrote Kummer out a $10 rheC'k which he charged to research. 6nvitation to Betty Paul Beigel '45, invited Betty Grable to prom. His Phi Delt fra- ternity brother, Spencer Egglefield '45, invited Rita Ha)worth. Then the beys waited with baitPcl breath for an answer. Betty w1ote Paul: ·'Dear ~1r Beigel: \Thank you .for your ver} kind invitation but due to picture cGn:- mitments it would be impocs:ble for me to at-tend :1- our Junior Prcm on April 10. \Thank you again !or your intrr- est. \Sincerely. \Betty Grable.\ At the end of the week Rita Hay- worth had not }'et decided to t·eply. Thief The thief struck again last ThUI's- day night. He took an o:d battered cornet from Oliver Steiget·walt and nothing else. -Ollie has been used to tearing off a few hot licks every evening be- fore dinner and some times just be- fore going to bed. Thursday night Ollie reached for the instrument; couldn't find it. A search of ·his room, 10 South Sec- tion, North College, failed to di:- close it. in public speaking is offered by of the Senior Class, has issued the The Marines Dr. George D. Kellogg. request that those seniors who The rPcording machine, one of :1ave not yet paid their class dues the most effectivP in the portable do so at their earliest possible con- class. is used exclusively by the vPnience. Members of the class English department. have been appointed to contact Second Lieutenant Arthut· P. Bretherick, Jr .. U. S. M. C. R was back in Albany at the end of the week after visiting the University of Vermont, Middlebury, Williams, St. Lawrence and Clarkson in search of recruits. As a portable radio, it has en- every man in the class, Furlong abl·ed classes to listen to radio said, and th('SP appo-intees will ac- broadcasts by such proficimt pub- cept the two dollars due. He indi- lic speakers as Winston Churchill cated that the money thus receiv- _He reported that the Vermonters and President Roosevelt to study ed was \essential in getting thP dJd not k~ow the wat was .E?.oing voice techniques. class under wa v as alur, 1 r.i.\ . ~n .. that MI?dlebury was dead, that ----------------- _____ -___ !llvmg m Vliilliamsto\\n was higher I than in any of the other college Dr. Larrabeeft Yale Mart Trade 'Wits towns the Marine.o visited. He \ liked St. Lawrence and Union. I Ove~ Harvard's Possession Of Ritz I c·~s\:::~~g~;;:/'~ands ... th\ corn- when 1t was announced last0---- · - · • - - -- - I Cola show broadcast six niJ;hts a summer that Rob~rt W. Go~let ha~ I \Vhich, with taxe< tound to doublP, week over the Mutual Broadcnst- bequeat~ed the R,tz Hotel .m ~ev; 1 May yield handsome deficits. ing System, almost c~I'l'iNi 2h:ulle Yor~ City to :aarvard Umver_sity, I So the Harvard Corporation Spivak from the Junior Prom. ~ Piece of li~ht verse e~~.Itled 'Can't be blamed for having fits Mikt> Mills and Bob Ne:~H'J·o:f Hatd ~uck foi Poor Old El~ ap-1 As it starts an exploration went do~•n to see the pcqJe who pe~red_m the Hal va~d Alumm Bul- ~Of a House Plan for the Ritz. anange the show. They wete in- let.m s1g~ed H.A.L.. 16. It _was re- ' formed that Charlie Spiva!{ would )ll'lnted :n the Yale Alumm Maga- Shall it base the pay of teachers broadcast .for the show on Thurs- l.ine, w,~ere it r~:ently drew a re~l~: On the bar sales of the Ritz? day evening and Benny Goodman called. Go?d NJ.,ht Poor ~arvat d Do with fewer chapel preachers on Friday evening, the night of thP over tne Signa-ture G.P.D., 97. The If there's Jess demand for Schlit:;:? Prom. original poem -~as writ~en by. Dr. :Shall all students be required .. 1 1 It was impossible to change ~a~rold A. L'lll a?ee: .PI ofessO! of 1 To spend week ends on a blitz? dates, they were told, because 1 .h1losophy at l!'mon, and tt1e well- And alumni be inspired 1 Goodman is playing a one night a1med reposte 1s from the. pen. of To be Fellows of the Ritz? , stand. the Treasurer of Yale Umvers1ty. ' I Married S • Dr. George Pmmly Day, foundet· of Soon the seniors \'I'll on Class Day W 1 emors . tl Y 1 U · .,'t p. B th \ e tnow of ten semors who 1e a e Il!VPt - 1 Y 1 PSS. 0 All be given hotel kits : h I· d · I . h \'erse\ fol!ow: . ave a 1ea y taten t e fatal leap. And be told how m a mass they , There are Bob How&i'd, Norm H.\RD LUCK FOR POOR Shoald all serve the good old Ritz. , Young, Cliff Bowdish. To:n Par- OLD t:LI s.o the Corporation_ fro:wns. and sons, George Shell, Andy Kay, For a tl.ock of recent seasons I~ ow debates each time It S!lS : Ward Nixon. Lou Dacundio. Abe They have felt the Crimson blitz I ' n tr.e style of Harvard gowns and Dorsman and Clayton Williams. Till at football, track, and rowing ! HooC:s for bell boys at the Ritz. : Anybody else? They expPct to get the fritz; [ --G. P. D., '97. Now their mcial life is slipping --~----- -- ------ And they're due for forty fits -~ For I'd hate to be a Yale man A 1 •t t• f Now that Harvard owns the Ritz! n m1 a iOn 0 1 Willkie They will get thP least of sen·ice. I Overcharges on their chits, ' Their complaints will go to Conant Or to leering I.ampoon wits, In the bar each son of EJ,i Will be dl'ier than a Spitz- o· I'd hate to be a Yale man Now that Harvm·d owns the Ritz! -H. A. L.,'16 , GOOD NIGHT POOR HARVARD Poor old Harvard's in for trouble, A Portrait of Michael James RAY ALDRICH in The Playboy of the Western World --S. B. 1----------------------------------------------' · FoJ· it now must run the Ritz, R It sum that puis Sttld cell~ n ·h~ sche won stud Tl men aH edtH app1 nify .phyf nize sine PVer mis.E t.he the'\' stud who In Wit] c:1l tain ('Qill by t mar is lege stilt phvl t:r i· ll·g·e fit I Tht:' volu Pl war ited SUC'l irct grot am:. we of r <>d r'ei1 ~·ow ~ t 2 of c Pal'I ryi be t T; tion l'ies a b best den pat1 t1ai its prO·] thP V\ pt·Ol DlUS the arrr The ~pe~ tion <!ev· hox vidE Clllil phy It p·h! obs hav and tern buil but thi~ phy ·.-:h~ fen• ica be strc fro! phy pea An T nou Anc - • ~ I E

re- put are ·ted as the rps, to of tlH' ~ to the go- sec- and ira- it eel on:- ply. off be- be- for .A di.>- P. the sity in ~her He s a ast- f in- the nge SPORTS ruEsoAv. MARcH 31, 1942 Wql· iliun.rnrnt.rn.ais . . . · . . iBoxing, Wrestling II Details of Compulsory Physical p R 0 M Review of S·ports I M· t ·h . Att t Education Program Are Released I Continued ftom Pag0 ll . a ( es ra·c I I where they worked du!'ing the ' · : · ' · , In accord·ance wi·th the regula-~ summer months at the Tenace Ga- It wo1:1ld have been a fai,l' as- M ! lion which t•equires c0mpulsory · i bles Ca,;ino. At the seasons end sumption before December 7, 1941, ; :a:ny S·pect·at.ors ; physical education for those physl-1 Cindermen Face ; \The Stardusters\ went to Boston that to voice a suggestion for com- 1 · • 1 c:.dly able, the program for the . I where they joined Herbet·t Marsh's pulsory .physical education for ail 1 : ~ummer term has been released by Ve·fn10Ht in Prep 1 orchestt a. In 1937 they left Marsh st1:1dents during their four years, of Bedell, D-ltaigh, O'Neill, , Professor Wliford Ketz following to go to New York and formed the c 0 llege would have been labelled Shepherd, Thai W~in: I app1oval by the Education Com- Meet Saturday quat·tet now known as \The Star- n heresy, and the originator of the 'O'Brien Wins by Forfeit :mittee. ; dusters.\ In :-\ew York they had scheme no doubt could easHy have : The summer progzam has been :commercial shows with \Town Hall won the title of most unpopular Before a iarge crowd in Alumni 1 divided into periods of seven weeks Tt·aclt pm~tice has been going Tonight\ and George Jesse'l's Vi- student on camp1:1s. Gymnasium, including a large num-, each. The first period will con- along at a flne pace now that the: talis program for fourteen weeks. The present :<eniot· class can re- I ber ~f sub-fl eshmen, th:·ee def~nd- sist of running, walking, speedball, sq~~d. has gotte~ out on th; tt ark. :Then in 1940 they had theit· own membet· the halcyon days when mg champwns, a fotmel, ch~mpwn, and calisthenics, while the second Thts Is the earliest th~t Btll Ketz' \Swing to Chielets\ progi·am. which aH there was to passing physical and two of la~t ye~r s fmaltsts peliod will be spent on wrestl-ing has been able_ to get hts t_rac_kmen lasted for forty weeks_ This was education was to leave slips in an were succe~s~ul m t~eu· endeavors. and boxing. 'Evei·yone who passes II out on the c_wde:·s, a_nd It Is ex- the longe~t time the Chicle! Com- appropriate box tiwce a week sig- T~.e sem1-f~nals WI~!, be held to- the physical examination wiU be 1 pect~g tha't ~t Will. aid. the team pany ever spon~ot ed a half-hour air nifying- that one had indulged in moll 0 '-; eve~m~ at 7.30 P·. m. . required to take the course three cons I etably In gettmg mto shape show. h ; 1 •cises in some recog- Berme 0 Ne1! of Pht S1gma times. per week. for the .sea>.on. . Since joining Chal'!ie Spivak's or- .P ys_ra exet K . . d B'll M . 1 f f f The ·ftrst meet. of the season will 1 chestt·a, \The Stardusters\ have nized sport. Things have changed a·ppa .~m~e . . . 1 .arz u 0 . . The program for the academic b h ld h Delta Pr- Without any ti ouble Bob · e e . ere this _Satu.rday after-:, appeared with him constantlv in since then. Now the freshmen have ~h , ·r~ . ,. . :. :year beginning in September and th th u f v J PVen to take m•'ke-ups when they,::;_ epald, hi Sigma Kappa.: pumed can·ying through next April wi.JI noon WI . e mv~r.slty o er- theatt·es. ballrooms, and many miss gym classes. Some say that Jun. Coapman ?.f Delta Upsilon~ and 1: ccnsist of ten weeks program of m_ont. It Is an unofficial meet and radio progl ams including the Fitch A.aion Thai pmned Lou Stefftc of wtU be zna.de up of rela)s. Hum_ e Bandwagon, the Coca-Cola Spot- t.he students get all the exercise · . . . . . 1 walking, running, calisthenics, and m~ets ha\e been ~cheduled w~th light program, and Glen Miller's thev need. Yet record·s show that :>e.t? ~h1. ~tew!e Goldblatt, wh_o . 1 s 1 speedball. The winter period of six- Mtddlebury on Apnl 18 and w1 th u. S. o. program. students, yes Pven America as a ,eekm,: to : egam the heavywei~ht I teen weeks will consist of boxing R. P. I. on April 22, while the sole whole, is in poor physical condition. c~ampw~sht~l from . de~enftf,g 1 and wrestling, while the final four away meet is with Vermont on Junp Hutton h d .::.lar.cp ep 1 erman, .pmRe · 1 ' Ie weeks will be the s me a· the fall A 'I 05 Th June Hutton, who is the female Indeed, times have c anhge .. Gilmore of Kappa Nu without dif- I Pl'Ogl·am.. a s . -pnb ~ . f e flraclt S(]Uad which membez· of the qua.z·tet, J'.·· t·he tht'rd With a war .to fight, ~uman p yst- ficulty. ! · ·. . . num ers mt~- our men, will havp ~ c·ll power will dPtermme to a cer- I th b . d' . . B bb 1 The s~stem of operatton ts as to get into shape by April 18 as it ~irl to appear with \The Stardust- . . n e ' oxmg I VISIOn, o · y 1 f 11 • . · th . :. . , . \ A d · h d f c tain and 1 m port ant degree the out- Haigh of P.hi Delta Theta, who 1 o ows. m . ~ runnmg Pl ogt ai?, will have little time to practice be- e:·s. n m t e wor s o urt ('QmP of the war It will not be won 1 t 1 1 t p t F t . at .the begwmng, the group wtll tween the three meets which will Purnell, \'Junie' is the to.ps.\ June . . . os as year o a sy ret o, tn lk d . f . . .. 1 . • d · d by tanks and a,1rplanes and a high the 145 _ 55 lb. class finals, waded wa an tun· ot a ml· e ot so, g1 a .. be held in eight da~·s. sta1 te her pt·ofessional career by morale alone; this unaltera:ble fact into Ji mHockrr::an of Kappa: .Sigma ualJ~. cutt~n; ~~\~n the a~o~nt _of The following list is indicative of singing with her sister Ina Ray is slowly being recognized. Col- rifht at the bell of the fii st round wa m.g. e IS ance wt e In- the men who are showing up well Hutton and her band. With Ina leges all over the country are in- and won by a technical kayo in the cr~ased up to two and one. half in the various events. Ray at that time was a trio known slit uting programs of compulsory same session. Gem:ge \Killer\ Be- . m_l:s, tops. Ketz feel~ that tf the 100 yard dash Brc>ed, Ed Smith, as \The Winsteads\ composed of P hvsical tJ ain'w\ either in classes d 11 f D It U . 1 1 b cla:;ses can reach this goal they L 0 u Ot·!owsi•I' two bo:, s and a girl. of which June ·' • ~ e · o e a psi on a so won · y . 11 b d · · f • b ., 1 . in intra.mur~l nthletics. Our col- I a technical ka)o in the first round ·v1 e o:ng very satts ~ctory. was a mem er. After two years in ]loge adminis'rati 0 n has wisely seen in his bout with playboy Herb The pace _w1H be set accordmg to 220 yard dash .:\tally Mac11illan. her sister',; band, June left to sing fit to adopt .thE' former measure. Adams of Phi Gamma Delta. w.hen :the capactty of th: slower men. and Bob Muther with in a group known as \The ThP latter still remains, but is on a Ed Fitz stopped the fight after Be- i Followmg the ru_nnmg and walk- 120 ).an! high hurdles Bill WiJ .. Quintones\. With this group of five voluntary basis. dell had unleaEhed a .powerful at- 11r.g, the class WII~ return . t0 t~e kin, Tom Flynn, and C~ Wi!~on .5he worked for more than a year, 1 gym where a 12 mmute cahsthemc 220 \ard low llurdles Wt'lki'n 1 and left to take a spot by herself Phy~ical fitness is important in tack on Adams face, Adam was out i . ·n b h ld Th' t f ' • · M B · · 1 H' y G wartime. Its importance is not lim- on his feet, and he argued with · sesswn WI e . e · 18 P~~· 0 • Flynn Stan Davis 1 111 • ax aer s mustca \ I a en- d Fitz to let him continue. the prfogram IS taken dnectly Q ' 1 M' . 1 tlemen\ with Ella Logan. Follow- itcd. however, to such times an ______ ·from the field manual of the War · ~ar er ~ Ile--Mac~tllan, Het·b 'ing this, June Hutton sang for fom such situations. The numbet· of re- Department. A.da.r.s, Muther, s_ Davts, and War- months as a soloist at the Hotel iPctions from army duty on Semi\Final Schedule In the summer program, the first !'en Kamm. Astor. She then joined \The Star- grounds of phlysical disability is WRESTLING students to sign up will be given Mid'dle Dis.ance---Orton, Snell, dusters\ and they in turn joined nm!')le testimony to the fact that 125 lb. class -Bock vs Dwyer a choice of wrestling or boxing, Paul Quinn, S. Davis, Milt Russum, Spivak. we as a nation are soft--in times 135 lb. class-Sommers vs. Breed but when the number in one group 3eo!ge Middlemiss, Hanley, Jack --===============:, of peace. Despite evidence presen,t- 145 lb. class-Timpson vs. Brown; has been filled, the remainder of Pearson. Dick Mur.phy, Don Beal, ,~ <>d by insurance companies that 8hort vs. Shepard the class will have to go into the and Bill Hamilton r'en live out theh· years, there is 1 158 lb. class-Boroson vs. Smith; other group. Distance-Viglielmo, Bob Shep- lnteruted in Schenectady lnteruted in UNIOIV ;on alarming increase of persons, Ryan vs. Mudge . In addition to this kind of phy- herd, and Quinlan. ~·oung persons, who either pass on 174 lb. class--Marvm vs. Raymond sic-:tl education work, a special di- MAURICE B. GRAUBART t I b Bo \'ING Shot Put--Shaw. S. Davis. Adan:- ~ an ear Y age or ecome vicli::ns ..... · i vision will be established for those of diseases that prohbit them from 125 lb class-Heyman vs. Buchanan ! s'udents who are in the V-l class zevich, Stan Greenstein, and Par- Parning a livmg and/or from en- Walworth vs. ~ogachef~ky_ ! in the Navy. These classes will be sons rying things in life which could 145 lb. class-Ha1gh vs. 0 Bnen :one and one-half hours long, three Di::cus -Shaw, Bob Couch, Par- be their.>. 165 lb. class-(}~en~_vs F:~nn__ times per week. sons and Adamzevich The progmm which the Educa- In the first wrestling match ol About eig~ty men ~ill. be in the Javelin-Breed and Greg Me Ken- t ion Comm:ttee has approved ca.r- the evening, Lew Timpson of Kappa 1 egular sections, az:d 1t 1s cont~m- nis ries within its scope the outline .-,f Alpha, pinned Art Torrey of Phi plated that _there Will be about nme Pole vault-Wilson. Harlan Buck- a b·1sic physic!l'l training program Ga:nma Delta. Don Sommers of or ten sectwns. As far a.s the total l3nd, and Frank Farmer The Jay Strut lt•tveler 166 JAY STREET Watch and ]e<tr:!lry Repairing a Spui11lty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS best suited to the needs of the stu- Phi Sigma Delta pinned Bob 1 ~ui?ber of classes is conc:rned, Broad Jump-Miller Harris, Bob dent body and our country. It is Froughton of Delta Upsilon who 1 1t 1s ex~ected that there wtll .be Davis, Jud Zimmer, A. Clarke. patterned after suggested army had him on the mat in the fitst !28-32 bestdes the V-1 class. In ad- John Mason, and Dave Cohen ttaining and it embodies within minute of the bout. Harding Blown; di~ion to Ketz. there will b~ Hal :::;==:=.==:==:;;;;;:;;::;;;;;:;;:;;-;-;-:=-;;; 1 ----- ----------·-- its scope the l{illd of activity and of Kappa Nu .pinned Bud Harvey :Vi! Ittner·, ~rt Lawrer:ce, AI Ciampa n I I proper techniques for building up of Beta Theta Pi in a vei'Y close 1 and Ed Fitz who _will ~ave charge the bodies of the students. .r.atch. Dave Bock of Delta Phi of the classes. It 1s estimated that V\Thile the running and walking exhibited an interesting brand of each man will carry a load of baout pt·ogram serve to build the leg wrestling, to pin Walt Warner ol 22 ho~rs per week. Sorr\e ;neans. of muscles, Professor Ketz explains, Phi Delta Theta. Doug Slingerland lessemng the burd~n IS bemg the calisthenics drills will build the of Delta Chi pinned Abe Bakal of ~ought. but no solutwn has been arms. ::1nd chest and neck muscles. Phi Sigzna Delta after he hiznee!f found yet. The reason for the institution of had been in a tight spot. John r;~==·=-=-=~~~========~ 1 ,;peedball is to develop coordina- Adamzevich of Delta Chi pinned tion of muscular activity besides Jim Tracy of hPi Ga::1ma Delta in ceveloping quick thinking. The the final match. boxing and wt·estling program pro- Harold Limpert of Sigma Phi vide the contact work that is re- outpointed Jim LaPann in a three : nnired ni any complete plan for round bout. After being peppered 1 physical training. with long lefts by LaPann in the 1 In its PXperimental stage this fizst zound, Limpert, who is mak- , r:hn hqs been successful, and the ing his first bid for a title, fought obstacles and shortcomings that in colse and was able to come back ' have and will be encountered have in the :econd and third rounds to· and will be rooted out of the S·YS-' VI< in easily. Jack Gr~sham of. ';\hi , tern. Union College must and can Gamma Delta outl?ou;ted sm1lmg , build i,ts men not only mentally Joe. Hm:m~n of Ph1. S;gma Kapr:a. For QUICK Reliable and Excellent Laundering call the PARK LAUNDRY PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Schenectady Anything you need? Call All Automotive Service TIRES - BATTERIES - GAS ACCESSORIES BEEKMAN'S 601 UNION ST. Mobilgas - Mobilubrication Mobiloil GUERRAilS PHARMACY but also physically-we can use Bill 0 Bnen of Phi Stgma Kappa, · I 05 Clinton St. this program as a springboard for wen by a forfeit from Bob Tan,. 600 Union St. I physical tra~ing for thP f~ure nn=e~u~t~~~~~~·~~~~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~im~p~~~P~h~o~n~e~6~~~4~1~9~/ Ph. 4-90 I I \WE DELIVER\ -_·:hether it be for purposes of de- ~~ ----- --~ - - --------- 1 .~---- fending- the United States of Amer- SHOE ,, ;;:~11111111111111 11111111111i11 1-11111111-llllllll I lllllllllllllllli II uilillllllllllllllllllllllllllll:_~ ica in times of wat· or whether it u N I T E D - be for teh purposes of making a CLEANERS · REBUILDERS 1 ::: ::: strong and healthy country free AND from the ravages of disPase and TAILORS _ physical disability in times of peace. ·- 0 Anderson Pledged I Phi fraternity an-: pledging of Geor!!e I of Springfie:d. Mas3. : The Delta nounces the Anderson, '43. (Have Your Agent Call Us) Phone <i-56i:_ I§ --'-- ---~-------·-·--- 1 = ---~~= 114 State St. ~~ I= !§ ,_ For \Better Milk\ Try Us ·= Schenectady Engraving Co. Engravers for The Concordiensis -, =· 147 Jay St. Phone 4-9002 - Our Suppl~· Comes from the Fillest Dairy Farms Direct to Our Plant and Processed in Modern Stainless Steel Equipment - - . ;;llllllllllllllll 1111~ 11111!1! lllllllllll_l!~'!llllllllllllllll~lllllll 11111111111111111111 II IIIII I§ i BA Edelweiss DeLuxe BAR-B-Q SAUCE Will Convince You! YOU'LL LII{E THE FLAVOR LANSING'S DAIRY 215 N. Tenbroeck St., Scotia, N. Y. Phone 6~7758 : _!,.:, _:==__::::_::::=._=.__;;;;;;;;;;;_;;:~~_:::;-=-====-:::::::===.:::_::::::_:;:_:;: __ =_:::::_:::::_==::::=:==::::::_:::::_::::::;::: _ _:::;_:::;_:::;_:::;_:::;_:::;_:;:=--~--- ----- , 111•••• •••••••••1111B ••••••a••••• ••••••••••aBIIIi!ltllll BDI 1: . ': :5 Gazette Press :• IB • • • II 5 Printing I R II • • • g B I g II • I 1•••••~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••m•••e••• 'Government Men To Visit 9ueens College April 25 Doyle, Fishbone,. Berger, Bishop to Represent College at Conference Four government students have been selected by Professot· Harold F. Sylvester to ·represent Union a;t the fifth annual conference with Queens College government stu- dents April 25 and 26. Designated fz·om Dr. Sylvester's class in state and local govern- ment, the Union political science t•epresenta:tives will be Thomas J. Doyle, Harvey Fishbone, Howard Berger, and -Robert Bishop. Dr. Sylvester will accompany the group to Queens where Dr. Phillips Bradley, head of the de- partment of government there, has at;ranged a two day program. The Union group will also visit municipal departments of New York City for a lesson in the prac- tical politics of the world's o-rea.t- est metropolis, \' The entire state and local gov- l'rment clao;s is visiting the state assembly in Albany today. MACHINIST TOOL and DIE MAKING INSTRUMENT MAKING Courses 3 to 12 Weeks Write, Phone or Call 9 a.m.-9:30p.m. We employ no solicitors - METROPOLITAN T~~~tggfL 260W.41 St., N.Y. L0.3-2180 Licen,.f'd hy State of New York UNION MEl'\ Be completely well groomed - Get a Haircut ACME BARBER SHOP Where Service is a Pleasure 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 TWIN FARMS DAIRY GRADE A MILK We have our own Guernsey Herd MILK PRODUCED and BOTTLED on the FARM We Deliver Just Call 4-7894 Balltown Rd. You owe yourself a bottle If you don't know and how gloriously good beer c:an be. Enterprise 9875 PHONES: Albany 4-5411 Troy 44 The Lee\ding Distributors I·.

Wl1l\ illnttrnr(lirnnt.s tuEsDAY. MARCH 31, 1942 GENERAL NEWS 4 Dean Announces 'Elective ()ourses for '42- '43 0------ ~---·-····· Biology 22 <Physiology), T., Th., 9-9:50; lab., Th .. , 1:30-3:30. Professor I UPPER-CLASS COURSES OUT. SIDE. THE DIVISIONAL Mavor. GANIZA 10 Biology 23 <Nervous system and sense organs), T., Th., 10·:20-11:10; lab., OR· T N ELECTIVE COURSES For 19..t2-19.i:~ M., 1:30-3:30. Professor Clat'k. Religion 1, T., Th., S., 11:20-12:Hl. Reverend Houghton. Chemistry 12 \Organic Chemistry), T., Th., S., 11:2D-12:10; lab., M., or Appreciation of Music, M., W., F., 1:30-2:30. Director Tidmarsh. In presenting the list of elective com·ses for the academic year: T., 1:30-3:30, or Th., 2:30-4:30. Professor Schmidt. 1942-1943 may I rpquest that all students who must choose electives be-· Chemistry 22 <Physical Chemistry), M., w., 9-9:50; lab., F., 1:30---3:30. gin immediately the preparation of their course programs for next year. Dr. Stanford. All p10grams must be completed by April ll. Chemistry 23a, b (Advanced Organic Chemistry. Colloid Chemistry)., T., Catalogs describing the vanous courses and sta·ting pre-requisites may be had at my office BE soon as they arrive from the printer. Under the rules of the college il'H back work taltes precedence over new work and must ·be scheduled first unless permission to postpone it is granted. Each student must file his cout se program with his adviser and must prepare a time-schedule card so that conflicts in courses may be avoided. Forms for thi~ purpose have been sent to the advisers. Th .. 11:20-12:10; lab .. F., 1:30-3:30. Dr. Cotzin. Geology 12 <Geology and Physiography of North America), M., F., 1:30- 3:30. Professor Smith. Geology 22 <Economic Geology), M., F., 3:30-5:30. Professor Smith. Mathematics 21 <Advanced Calculus and Differential Equations), M., W., F., 10:20-11:10; T .. Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Professor Morse. Mathematics 22 <Differential and integral Calculus), M., W., F., 10:20- 11:10. Professor Fox. Mathema•tics 24 <Modern Higher Geometry), T., Th., S., 9-9:50. Professor · Burkett. It is expected that students who wish to attend the summer term Mathematics 3 1 (Advanced Calculus), T., Th., s., 10:20-11:10. Professor will indicate the courses they will take thls summer and also prepare Snyder. their programs for next year Physics 3 <General Physics for students preparing for the study of C. F. GARIS, medicine), lecture T., 9-9:50; recitations Th., S., 8-8:50 or 9-9:50; lab., Dean F .. 1:30-3:30 or 3:30-5:30. Professor Thatcher. Physics 21 <Heat, Electricity, Magnetism), T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10; lab., TIME SCHEDULE O·F COURSES T., 1:30-4:30 or Th., 2:30-5:30. Professor Rojansky. ~'o J'un· 1 01 . \ · . t 1 • f . . . . , , 1 t f , , d't Psychology 3 \History of Education and Principles of Education), M., ., 01 .emo1 a 'tng a om } ea1 p!OgJam rna} e ec 01 c1e 1 W F 9 _ 9 . 50 p f , . ·Ch'll d more than one under-class course. Requirements for majors and e!ec- Psych~lo~~ 4 i Educ~~o~~~~Psyc 1 h~~~y and General Principles of Teach- tion of courses are printed in the catalog. ing), M., W., F., g. 8 : 5 o. p 11 ofessor Chillrud. Psychology 11 <Abnormal Psychology and Personality), M., W., F., 9-9:50. : Professor Ligon. DIVISION OF LITERATURE U p.per-class Courses f Psychology 12 <Statistical Methods), T., Th., S., 8-8:50. Professor ChHI- rud. Comparative Literature, M., W., F .. 9-9:50. Professor Coffin. English 20 <Milton and the sevente~nth century), T .. Th .. S., 9-9:50. fessor \Veeks. Psychology 21 (Advanced Psychology), M, W., F., 10:20-11:10; or T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Professor March. English 23 <The Romantic Period), gett. Pro- Psychology 22 (Practice Teaching and Methods), M., W., 3:30-6. Pro- fessor Chillrud. T., Th., S • 8-8:50. Professor Blod- Psychology 23 <Psychological Methods), M., Th., or T., F., 1:30-4:30. Pro- English 25a, b \The English Nave!. 10:20-11:10. Professor· Herrick. . . fessor Ligon. The English Drama l, M., W., F.,: Under-class Courses English 30 <American Literature). ~L. V\'., F., 9-9:50. Professor Wainger. English 32a, b lAd vanced Composition l, ~1., V\'., F., 11:20-12:10. Professor Johnson. French 20a \French Civilization of the nineteenth and twentieth cen- Biology 1 1 General Biology)' T., Th., 10 = 2 D- 11 : lO; lab., F., 1 :30---3:30. Biology 2 <General Biology fm> majors in biology and for students pre- turies), T., TIL, S., 10:20-11:10. Professor Zabuesnic. paring for the study of medicine), T., Th., 11:20-12: 1 0; la·b., M., or French 21a, b <History of French Literature from the earliest times to W., or Th., 1 : 30 _ 3 : 30 . the present>, T .. Th., S .. 10:20-11:10. Professor Bennetton. Biology 6 <Human Biology), M., w., 9 _ 9 : 5 o; lab., Th., 1:30-3:30. German 20 \Practice in advanced German conversation and composi- Biology 11 (Zoology and Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates), M., w., tionl, .M .. W., F., 10:2D-11:10. ~'lr. Condoyannis. 11 :20-12:10; lab., T., or w., or F., 1:30---3:30. German 21a, b <History of German Literature from the earliest times Chemistry 1 <GeneraJ Chemistry for engineers), T., Th., s., 10:20-11:10; to the present>, M., W., F., 11:20-12:10. Dr. Stubing. lab M Th 1 30 3 30 Greek 22 \Advanced Greel,l. T .. Th., S, 11:20-12:10. Professor Coffin. ' ., \ or ., : - : · I I' 1 El It I' :\'! W F 10 ?Q..- 11 10 D S'lb Chemistry 3 <General Chemistty), M., W., F .. 8-8:50; lab., T., or F., 1:30- ta tan l ementary a mnl, • .. ., ., ;_ : . r. 1 er. 3 : 3 o. Latin 2 !Roman Lawl, T., Th .. S., 9-9:50. Professor Kellogg. Chemistry 11 (·Quantitative Analysis), M., or W., 10:20-11:10; lab., M., or Latin 22 <Lucretius), T .. Th .. S., 10:20-11:10. Professor Kellogg. T., or Th., 1 : 30 _ 3 : 30 . Spanish 1 !Elementary Spanish), M .. W, F .. 8-8:50. Professor Bennetton. Spanish 10 !Second year Spanish), T., Th .. S .. 9 _ 9 : 5 0. Dr. Stubing. , Geology 1 <General Geology), T., Th., 1:3D-2:30; lab., T., or Th., 2:30--- 4:30 or W., 1:30-3:30. Under-class Courses English 1 1Freshman Englishl, M., W., F., 8-8:50 or 9-9:50 or 10:20-11:10; T., Th .. S, 8-8:50 or 9-9:50 or 10:20-11:10. English 10 !Introduction to English Literature), M .. W .. F .. 10:20-11:10 or 11:20-12:10; T., Th .. S .. 10:20-11:10. French 1 <Elementary French!, T .. Th .. S .. 11:20-12:10. French 2 •Second year French!. T., Th., S .. 8-8:50. French lOa !Introduction to French Literature!, M .. W., F .. 11:20-12:10. Freneh lOb c Introduction to French Literatur!?l, M., W., F., 9-9:50. French 20b 1 French Civilization of the nineteenth and twentieth cen- turies>, M., W .. F., 11:20-12:10. German 1 !Elementary German>. M., W., F., 8-8:50; T., Th., S., 8-8:50. German 2 cSecond year German>, ~I .. W., F, 9-9:50: T., Th., S .. 9-9:50. German 10 1 Introduction to the Classics>, T., Th., s .. 10:20-11:10. Greek 1 <Elements of Gt·eek), M .. W., F., 10:20-11:10. Greek 11 <Xenophonl, T., Th., S., 9-9:50. Latin 1 <Selections ·from Latin prose and poetry), M., W .. F., 11:20-12:10. Latin 11 c Selections from Latin poetry>. M., W .. F., 10:20-11:10. DIVISION OF SOCIAL STUDIES Upper-class Courses S. S. 21 <Europe since 1870). M., W., F., 9-9:50. Professor Langsam. Mathematics 2 <Survey course in algebra, trigonometry, and analytic .geometry). M., W., F., 10:2D-11:10; T .. Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Mathematics 12 <Differential and Integral Calculus), M., W., F., 8-8:50; T., Th., S., 8-8:50. Phyeics 1 <General Physics-students electing this course must elect Physics 11 in the following year), lecture M., 9-9:50 or 10:20-11:10; recitations. W., F., 9-9:50 or 10:20-11:10; lab., M., or T., or W .. or Th., or F., 1:30-4:30. Lecture and laboratory in alternate weeks. Physics 2 <General Physics for students in Divisions I or II), lecture T., 9-9:50; recitations. Th .. S., 9-9:50; lab .. W .. 1:30-3:30. Lecture and laboratory in alternate weeks. Physics 11 <Second course in General Physics), lecture M .. 8-8:50; reci- tations W., F., 8-8:50; lab. M., or T., or W., or Th., or F., 1:30-3:30. Psychology 1 <General Psychology), M .. W., F .. 10:20-11:10 or 11:20-12:10; T., Th .. S .. 10:20-11:10 or 11:20-12:10. ll Bellevue Quality Bakery · 2625 Broa.dway Phone 4-t!Ui BREAD - ROLLS - PASTRY IDEAL BARBER SHOP Ideal Barber Service at no extra cost 448 State Street PHONE 4-7136 S. S. 22 !European Colonial Expansion>. M. W., F., 10:20-11:10. Profes- sor Langsam. r-----------------·--·---------------------------. s. s. 23 <European War and Politics, 1648-1870), M., W .. F., 9-9:50. Pro- I I C E C R E A M I fessor Doty. t t S. S. 27 <Eighteenth and Nineteenth Century England), T., Th., S., 8-8:50. i 1 I Professor Doty. , I I s. sfe~o:~~~l~~~ent of Economic Thought), M., W., F., 8-8:50. Pro-: l One gallon of the very best Ice Cream, I S. S. 32 <Social and Intellectual History of the United States), M., W.. 1 I k I I F., 11:2D-12:10. Professor Bronner. ) any favor. Square pac age, easy to s ice. t S. S. 33 <History of the United States since 1865!, T., Th., S., 11:20-12:10. I 1 tt Professor Bronner. 1 $1.35 Delivered ~ Simply Phone 6e7248 S. S. 37 \Problems of Labo1· and Labor Management>, M., W., F., 8-8:50. 'I t :. Mr. Rotundo. I s. s. 38 <Corporation Finanee>. T., Th., s .. 10:20-11:10. Profe.=sor Whit- 1 t Bellevue Dairy I aker. I t S. S. 39 f Money and Banldngl, T., Th., S., S-8:50. Professor Bennett. 1 I S. S. 40 c Accounting and Business Statistics). T .. Th., 9-9:50; lab .. F,. '------------------------------------------------ 1 1:30-3:30. Professor Bennett, first half; Professor Whitaker, second t7-==-=-=~===========================~ hal.f. S. S. 42 \Public Administmtion in the National Government), ~~ W., F., 10:2D-11:10. Professor Campbell. S. S. 44 <National Policy Formation), T., Th., S., 11:2D-12:10. Professor t Campbell. ' S. S. 45 <Public Finance and Taxation) ,M., W .. F., 11:2D-12:10. Professor: Whitaker. I S, S. 47 tThe Role of the United States in World Politics), M., W., F., 11 :2G-12:10. Professor Sylvester. S. S. 48 !State and Local Government in Practice), T., Th., S., 9-9:50.; Professor Sylvester. S. S. 50 cSocial and Political Philosophy\, T., Th., S., 10:20-11:10. Pro-· fessor Larrabee. S. S. 56 t Seminal l. By appointment with Etaff. For the FINEST FROSTED Anywhere ifs BRJ\NDHORST'S COR. UNION AND GILLESPIE STS. l'nder-class Courses ~~~~~~;;;~~~~~~~~~;:;;~~~;;;~~~;;;~ S. S. 1 1 History of Western Civilization), T .. Th .. s .. 9-9:50: M., W .. F .. , 11:20-12:10. S. S. 2 c Introduction to Social Institutions), M .. W .. F .. 10:20-11:10; T.,! Th. S., 10:20-11:10. I S. S. 10 t ~ret hods and Problems), M .. W .. F .. 8-8:50; T .. Th .. s .. 12:10. Special section for Philosophy, T, Th., S., 11:2D-12:10. 11:20- . S. S. 11 1 Elementary Economics>. T .. Th .. S .. 9-9:50: M., W., F .. 11:20- 12:10. S. S. 12 <Introduction to Government>. T .. Th .. S., 8-8:50: M .. W., F.,' 9-9:50. I DIVIRION OF SCIENCE Upper-class Courses c. s. MOODY Optometrist Eyes Examined and Glasses Fitted 11 5 Broadway PHONE 6·5747 ELECTIVES FOR B. S. IN CHE-MISTRY AND B. S. IN PHYSiCS STUDENTS Any elective may be chosen fer which the student has had the preper pre-requisites and which is scheduled at one of the times indi- cated. B. S. in Chemistry--4 year program. Seniors: M., W., F., 9-9:50 or H:20---12:10; T., Th., S., 8-8:50 or 10:20- 11:10. Juniors: M., W., F., 8-8:50 or 11:20-12: 10; T., Th., S., 8-8:50 or 9-9:50 or 11:20-12:10. Sophomores <3 year plan): Choose two electives, M., W., F., 9-9:50 or 11:2D-12:10; T., Th., S., 9-9:50 or 10:20-11:10. R S. in Physics--4 year program. Seniors: M., W., F., 8-8:50 or 9-9:50 or 11:20-12:10; T., Th., S., 8-8:50 or 9-9:50 or 11:20-12:10. Juniors: M., W., F., 11:20-12:10; T., Th., S., 8-8:50 or 11:20-12:10. Sophomores: M., W., F., or T., Th., S., 11:20-12:10. Sophomores \3 year plan): M., W., F., 9-9:50 or 11:20-12:10; T., Th., S., 9-9:50. SUMMER TERM COURSES All courses will meet for class-room work or for class-room work and laboratory work Monday to Friday inclusive. On each Monday an Assembly will be held at 10 A. M. On this day only morning classes will meet 8-8:50; 9-9:50; Assembly; lD-20-11:10 and 11:20..12:10. S. S. 37 \Problems of Labor and Management), 8-9. S. S. 10 <Methods and Problems in Social .Studies), 8-9. Mathematics 11 (Differential and Integral Calculus), 8-9 and 11:30-12:30. English 10 (Introduction to English Literature), 8-9. S. S. 47 <The Role of the United States in World Politics), 9:1D-10:10. S. S. 11 \Elementary Economics), 9:10---10:10. Spanish 1s <Elementary Spanish), 9:10-10:10. Mathematics 21 <Advanced Calculus and Differential Equations), 9:10- 10:10. S. S. 12 (Introduction to Government>, 10:20-11:20. English 12s <Introduction to American Literature), 10:20-11:20. Mathematics 2 <Trigonometry and analytic geometry), 10:20-11:20. Psychology 1 \General Psychology), 10:20---11:20. S. S. 35s !American History, 1763-1942), 11:3D-12:30. French 20b <Reading and Discussion of Modern French Litetaturel, 11:30-12:30. Ger·man 2 (Second year College German), 11:30-12:30. Chemistry 3 <General Chemistry), 1:30-2:30; lab., M., W., 2:30. Chemistry 11 <Quantita:tive Analysis), M., W., 1:30-2:30; lab.; M, W., 2:30, T., Th., 1:30. Chemistry 12 <Organic Chemistry), 1:30-2:30; lab., M., W., 2:30. Chemistry 21 <Physical Chemistry), 1:30-2:30; lab., M., T., W., Th., 2:30. Physics 21 (Heat, Electricity, and Magnetism), 1:30-2:30, Lab., M., W., Th., 2:30. Elements of Electrical Engineering-M., T., W., Th., 1:30; lab., T., Th., 2:30. All junior academic students must take three courses in order to graduate in December 1942. All other academic students are advised to take three courses. All freshmen engineers must take mathematics 11 and Elements of Electrical Engineering. All B. S. in Chemistry and B. S. in Physics freshmen must take Mathematics 11 and Chemistry 11. All B. S. in Chemistry sophomores must take Chemistry 21 and Mathematics 21. All B. S. in Physics sophomores must take Physics 21 and Mathe- matics 21. -------------- E.STER TRIPS HO.ME COST LESS BY GREYHOUND don't need a course in higher mathe- matics to figure out you're way ahead at GrPybound's low fares. The schPd- ules are convE>.nient-the de~p-cush· ioned seats are as rest-provoking as a dull IPcture-and tht> crowd's surt> to be a lot .of fun. Yes, sir, the right start for this vacation is by GrPy- hound! M.al•e your Eastei' we~?k-end trip homP b yGreyhound. It's your chancp to be ldnd to your pocketbook, too - you GREYHOUND TERMINAL 26 Erie Blvd. Phone 6•34J5 Round Trip Fares :o:w YORI( ...... $ 4.1;; BOSTOS ......... , O.i>ll ~PRIS(H'IELil ..• t.2!> WASHI:-i(l'['O;\; ... 11.10 :-iYltA{;t:ISE . . . . . . • 3,;;;, HO!'HI:sTJ:R .. .. . :,.~o PIWVInt::S.CE . . . . 7.!0 BISUIIA~I'W;>; . . • ·1.00 ;.;cRA:-i'l'O); • • . . . . • 6.05 PATE ItS0:-1 • • . . . • . ·l,t.; :\EWARI{ 1.1;; lL~RTFORD :..t:> :SEW II AVE~ . . . . 0.2;, l'J.T<:vm,A:sn ..... tn.on Wtlltcgwi'Im. . , . . • fi:'llu PHILADELPHIA . 7.20 Biology 12 tBotanyl. T, Th., 8-8:50; lab., W., 1:30---3:30. Professor Dale. I Biology 21 \Embryology!, M., v.: .. or F., 8-8:50; lab., M., T .. or Th., 1:30-: 3:30. Professor Scott. !b============================dl'l.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• DR.~ Vol. N,c N~c Fo \ F c Tl men to c V-1 all dent 20, l toda poe! sopl chm Cad tmi: A quir in COUl exte ing, core the divi mar in at Dep this recc rna~ gra1 con tion ex a this the lege yea 1 err eith tak· mer van tati T qui: the pee goo qui F hav pre ex a son PStl om• Ma equ sun yea coo to 1 tim adr T yea anc on ent int• is thi: the for ser der tw1 bei ser ch~ OPI exc Ol' the tio dol phi of ser thE COl im feE thE ed gr~ the of tw yel l fin $1! ab fUI thl

