L'. i \ ~ -·-+ / v ;.' u Summer- School Issue ' ' .. : .. : i\i i :. _.;: ··.: •I 1 ~ , \ The Student Newspaper of Union College SCHENECTADY, N.Y., MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 1942 • •I ., ,, .. ~ . , Two Weeks To Go Price 5c Vol. LXVI. No. 1 j ,J•:tlltorlal 4·11133 l'hoiiNl (l'r!'SS 4·4Hl =--==--~--'-------~-~~=~~~=====-=\----~--------'~-~~---~~\-==~~---=~~-----------~-- ,,. _______ -- Final Week of Classes First Summer School Enters -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ Heavy Enrollment 1 ForFreshnlanCamp 1 Septen:a ber 3 to 7 Lal'ge Staff of Counsellors Headed by :Ketz, Dutcher; Camp Dates Moved Up Day There is an excellent chance that' a new camp record for attendance will be established by members of the entering ·freshman class as registration continues for the sev- enth annual Fl'eshman Camp, Sep- tember 3 to 7, at Pilot Kn0b on Lake George. Ca-pacity registration is expected to be reached in thP very near future, according to a joint statement by Camp Director Wilford H. Ketz and Student Leadet· John Dutc·her, '43, last week. Succeeds Wyatt WI\LF@Rll H. I{ETZ I : 0-pe·rati-c Stars :In Fina.l Concert . Tomorrow Evenin~ Edwina Eustic, John .Dudley To Appear in Chapel In Third of Summer Series I 1 Edwina Eustis, versatile mezzo- ' sopt ano of opera, concert stage and , radio, and John Dudley, Australian 1 tenor of the Metl'Opolitan Opera Company, wiH bring to a close the ·series of concerts which have been held in Memorial Cha:pel during the past three months, as they join in a varied program of ::elections from Gilbert and Sullivan, together with ·popular concert and operatic num- bers tomorrow evening at 8:30. The series, similar to the inaug- ural group which was presented last winter and early spring has been conducted for the benefit of the col- le-ge scholarship fund. Last winter's series netted an amount equal to that necessary to pay one student a full tuition, four-year .scholarship, and the summer series bids fair to· rival the recor.d of the previous one. Large En-tering Class Anticipated by Ketz Director o~ Admissions Wil- ford H. Ketz said last week that applications for admission in the Class of 1946 had gone over the 300 mark, and were still being received by his of- ftce. At that time, some 225 had been definitely accepted, Ketz said, and indicated that the class which actually enters in September will be well over that of last year, when 2G8 freshmen entered college. \Many of our applicants are still struggling with entrance exams,\ said Ketz, who looked remarkably com f o r t a b le in shirt and nicktie, instead of sweatshirt and sneakers, \and when those are ovet·; we can gin to be a little mot·e certain about the actual number who'll be coming.\ Some indication of the qual ity of the class was given by the new director's closing re- mark on the subject. \They'll be about the same as every other class, only there'll be more of them. We have some exceptionally good boys, some who'll be about average, and, I suppose, some who-\ E·xamination Week~ Aug. 24-29 WiUCulminate 14-WeekSession Hayne.r,. GiU,ie E l:ect,ed To Offic·es In Summer Council 'Skelton' Group Increased By Mid-July Elections; Holds AlB-College Dance In accordance with provisions for student government during the summer which were drawn up by the 1941-42 Student Council at its final meeting last May. manage- ment of student affairs throughout the summer months has been in the hands of a \skeleton\ council, composed of members of the 1942- ·13 body, supplemented by six sum- mer school students. Activities Cut, Work 'Step.ped Up' The college's first summer ses- sion enters its final week of classes today, as the students who elected to return to college for the summer as part of Union's war-time acceler- ated tiChedule come into the :home stretch of the 14-week course which began May 18. Next Frida.y marks che final day of classes, and, after examination week, these work- weary sons of Minerva will enjoy vacation periods of varying length before classes begin again on Sep- tember 11. By next Friday, the summer- schoolers will have completed thir- teen weeks of study, for the most part greatly condensed and intensi- fied. attending classes five days every week, with the exce·ption of Friday, July 3, the only day upon which classes were suspended. The \tried and true\ .program which combines athletics, swim- ming, mountain climbing. faculty and student talks, informal get-to- gethers and a·n \Amateur Night'' will again be followed. On Sunday, undenominational church set·vices will be held in the natural out-of- doors chapel. $10 Fee Total cost of the camp to fresh- men this year is $10, including transportation between Schenectady and Lake George. Those who at- tlnd the camp will probably arrive on campus on Wednesday evening, September 2, and arrangements will be made at that time for them to stay over night at one of the cam- pus fraternity houses. Headquarters for that evening will be at the Delta Upsilon House and campers desir- ing overnight accommodations will be taken cat e of by camp official• there. Busses will leave the campus for Lake George at 9 o'clock the next morning. Wyatt .Leaves Post for- ~Navy Other Pt>rfot•mers Appearing in the two previous concerts this summer have been the First Piano Quartet, which .played brilliantly before a sold-out house on July 7, and Cornelia Otis Skin- ner, who presented one of her fam- ous programs of -monologues and We didn't stay to hear the rest. But we could guess what the final word was. And could only pray that the final group would be in the marked minor- ity. Robert H. Hayner and Robert B. Gillie, both of the class of 1943, were elected to executive offices of the new council at its first meet- ing early in July. Hayner served as chairman of the group, while Gillie acted as secretary. Duties of the summer council were greatly limited by the nearly complete absence of student activi- ties, and the council held but three meetings. It voted down a proposal for a program of orientation for the freshman class which entered in June, procipally on the grounds that they would be included in any program that will -take place in the fall. The council also de- nied support to an informal soft- ball team which had been formed by membe-rs of the student body, and restricted its activity for the summer to sponsoring an all-col- lege dance, which was held on the evening of Saturday, July 25, in Alumni Gymnasium. For numerous .fraternity men and for those who will be affiliated with Ft eshman ·Camp, the vacations will be considerably shortened. The Camp counsellors will return in time to leave for Lake George on the morning of Thursday, Septem- ber 3, while fraternity men will re- turn to campus sometime before Tuesday, September 8, the Fresh- men return from the Camp and Union's traditional, hectic Rushing Weelt gets under way. The tentative program, besides regular daily features already men- tioned, includeti talks .by Dean C. F. F. Garis, Professor Burges Johnson, Chairman of the English Depart- ment, Professors Augustus H. Fox, Franklin C. Chillrud, Benjamin P. Whitaker and a number of others. One of the evenings will featuJe the traditional talk by Professor F. L. · Bronner, '23, on \Fraternities and the Social Life at Union College,\ another will feature talks by stu- dents who have proven themselves to be leaders in extra-curricular lines, (typical ·of this type of talk will be the one on student publica- tions. by Granger Tripp, '43, Man- aging Editor of The Concordiensis), and still another will feature \Ama- teur Night\ with each tent present- ing a skit before the assembled camp, in competition for prizes. Student-Facult-y Staff Headed by Student Leader Dutch- er, the staff of student camp coun- sellors includes: 1943, Walter Breed, Stanley Davis, Norman Fox, Harold Joslin, Wallace MacMillan, Robert Shephard, Charles Snell, Granger Tripp, Richard Vinick and Georg-e Weed. 1944, J.ohn Clowe, Arthur ;De- Lorenzo, Thomas Hanigan, Edwa·rd Hennelly, Rexford Moon, Wallace Morgan, Paul Myers, Milton Neu- bauer, Junius Stephenson. 1945, Al- len Deyo, William Hamilton, Ed- ward Harris. George Larios, John Mann, William Marzluff, James Morton, Milton Russum, Cha-rles Ke+z Assumes New Position As Director of Admissions As Former Gets Commission Frederick A. Wyatt, '32, for ten years a member of the staff of the ~o:lege, Director of Admissions ,;ince March, 1941, secretary of the college since May and for the past three seasons, coach of vat·sity la- crosse, left last weelt to report at the naval aviation cadet selection board in New York City for duty in the UnitedStates Naval Reserve. Mr. Wyatt was commissioned a lieutenant, junior grade, in the Naval Reserve. His post as Director of Admis- sions has been filled by Wilford H Ketz, former associate professor of physical education and coach of track and cross-country. Prior to his appointment as Ad- missions Director, Wyatt had been assistant to Dr. Charles N. Wald- ron, then the Director, for many years. Befme that, as an under- graduate, Wyatt distinguished him- self primarily as a member of the lacrosse team, and was, in 1932, named to the All-American lacrosse team for that year. He and Joseph Paul, '38, succeeded Joe Harkness to the position as coach of lacrosse after the disastrous 1940 season. Ketz came to Union after receiv- Ing a Bachelor of Laws Degree from the Law School at the Univer- sity of Michigan. He was gradu- ated from Michigan with the class of 1929. after a brilliant athletic and scholastic career at that school. Since 1931 he has been coach of cross-coun·try and track and direc- tor of the extensive intr·amural ath- letic program. His appolntrr:ent at the admissions office became effec- tive immediately. ----0--- July Fourth Broadcast By Students, Faculty . recitations on the evening of July 28. Plan.s are now being formulated to sponsor another concert series next winter. The committee made up of faculty members and their wives, is headt>d by Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox. Tomorrow evening's program is as follows: I. Duet: \Ai nostri monti\ from Carmen ............... Verdi Miss Eustis and .Mr. Dudley II. L'Invitation au voyage .. Duparc Les Papillons ...... _ Chausson A pres un Reve ......... Faure Carnaval ..... __ .... Fourdram \·La Fleur que tu\ from Car- men .................. Bizet III. Tht> Heavens Are Telling .. .................. Beethoven Ave Maria .......... Schubert Liebesbotschaft ...... Schubert Wanderers Nachtlied .. Schubert \Habenera\ from Carmen .. ....................... Bizet (•Continued on Page 4) CPT, RAF Units Ci)uartered Here Occupy Oldgym Dormitory: Additional Groups !Expected in Septembel' Occupying rooms in Oldgym Dorm and eating morning and eve- ning meals in Hale House during the summer, approximately 40 members of .the Army and Navy- controlled Civilian Pilot Training Program. together with about ten members of the Royal Air Force. The former group is made up. of students taking either the primary or secondary course of the CPT, while the latter group is on leave from England, on technical duty in this country's defense plants. The CPT students are under the command of Lieutenant George Johnson, USA, and are on cam- pus only for gt·ound school classes (Continued on Page 4) John L. Clowe '44, was unani- mously elected chairman of the dance committee, upon which all members of the council were to serve. Special chairmen were nam- ed, including Robert Gill!e, orches- tra; Armand Varsaci. tickets; Colin Taylor, co n c e s s i o n s ; Harding Brown, decorations. About 130 couples attended the dance, making it possible for the <Continued on Page 4) Mountebanks Present Summer Show, New Treatment of Shaw's 'Candida' Philip Stanley DiJoects First Summer Production In Organization's History while Fenster was the Rev. Alex- ander Mill. In the past, American directors as well as British have interpreted For· the first timP since the \Candida'\ as a romantic love tri- CI.iountebanks presented \Rosmer- angle in which Candida is summon- sholm\ in 1938, the campus theater ed to choose between two suitor~. was sold out for opening night two each with certain shortcomings. Sh£' days before curtain opening. gives herself to the \weaker\, but and walks out on a humiliating reconciliation. Thus Dr. Stanley interprets Can- dida as dramatizing the emanci- pated woman beginning to misus<' power and lose rf:'spcct. This, he believeti was the original idea of Shaw in writing the plaJ.·, although other themes, induced by Shaw's :;ympathy for Marchbanks, have clouded the issue. Confirma- tion is -awaited on the new interpre- tation from Shaw, to whom a letter has been dispatched in London. Prepare for Camp Freshman Camp Leader John Dutcher, '43, returned last week to begin final completion of camp de- tails. (A story containing full de- tails of the 1942 Camp, as outlined by Dutcher. appears elsewhere on this page.) For most, the summer session has been startlingly different from college li-fe under normal condi- tions. Extra-curricular activities, u5ually a large part of the college's life, have been at a minimum, and occurrances and events which would tend to relieve the tedium of day-in-day-out class schedules. Principal among these events have been the series of concerts sponsored by the college on behalf of the scholarship fund, which have brought to the college such per- formel·s as the First Piano Quartet, Cornelia Otis Skinner, and a pro- gram by two young Metropolitan Opera performers, the last of which is still to come, being scheduled for Tuesday, August 18. Attendance at the first two concerts was excellent, and it is expected that Memorial Ch-apel will again be filled to capa- city tomorrow evening. Social functions, too, have been (Continued on Page 4) -----0 Twenty .. two Freshmen In Summer School Stewart, Henry Turner, Armand A radio playlet, written by Presi- Versaci. dent Fox, was presented on Inde- Packed houses on Friday and solaces the poet when she reminds Saturday for the Mountebanks new him that she is older than he. He interpretation of George Bernard disappears \into the night\ in a Shaw's \Candida\ brought from cloud of confusion, obviously for- President Norman Fenster the re- lL,rn and unhappy but elevated by mark that \possibly\ the play would an unworldly abdication. and at the be staged during the first few weeks same time hugging a \better secret.\ of the fall term for those who were Victorian marriage remains tech- unable to attend. nically intact, the poet has been A tradition-breaking technique of using pictures with glass on the set and at the same time eliminating the reflection of stage lights was developed for the late Victorian stage scene. The first indication of just how much the college's accelerated pro- gram will do to obliterate the tra- ditional \class lines\ came on June 22, when 22 men began their first classes at the college. These men, from all divisions except engineer- ing have been a patt of the student bodJ.' since that time, taking two courses of one hour and a half each every day. If they continue on the accelerated ·program until they fin- ish, they will 'be eligi\ble for degrees as early as December, 1944. Faculty leaders. whom the fresh- pendence Day over Radio Station men will have the opportunity to WGY by a group of Union students meet before they see each other and faculty members. The playlet across a classroom, include: Profes- was entitled \An Ode to Liberty,\ sors -Egbert K. Bacon, Chemistry._ and depicted a scene from life at William W. Bennett, Economics, Union College in the year 1807. Harold W. Blodgett, English, Frank- All the -characters ·but one in the lin C. Chillrud, Psychology, Freder- play were taken from the history iclt L. Bronner. History, Orin J. Far- of the coHege, and included such rell, Mathematics, Augustu.s· H. Fox, names as President E!iphalet Nott Mathematics, C. Frederick F. Garis. and John Howard Payne. Dean of Students, Henry G. Harlow, The play, which was also pre- Civil Engineering, Herbert R. sented over the -local television sta- Houghton, Religion, Burges John- lion on Friday, July 3, was built son, English, Wilford H. Ketz. Phys- around a poem, entitled \An Ode ical Education, John J. Naughton, to Liberty,\ written by Payne while Chemistry, Vladimir Rojansky. he was a student here. Physics, Gordon R. Silber, Romance Appearing in the performance Languages, Robert Stanley, Civil were Professors Everett Thatcher Engineering, Everett W. Thatcher,· and Harold Sylvester and Amon Physics, Bertram M. Wainger, Eng- Nellis '43, Edward DahlstE>d '45; !ish, D. Richard Weeks, English. Edward Johnson '44. Arthur Gil- Benjamin Whitaker, Economics,. and mour '44, Martin Kaplan '44. and Lee Holt. English. I Harvey Fish bone '43. Interest was marked in Director taught his lesson and has grown up Philip Stanley's new interpretation and motherhood reigns. of \Candida\ as the story of a wo- Brealts With Custom man. the fulfillment of Ipsen's As the production proceeded, Dr. Nora in \A poll's House,\ who Stanley noticed certain discrepan- must surround herself with weak cies in the play which led him to be- men, dominate them, be unto them lieve that traditional interpretations mother, wife, daughter, lover, all were ''missing the point.\ the things they desire. He conceived Candida as the Candida wa.s played by Mildred \new woman\ who is master of the Sayles who has worlted several house but conceals it in a Victorian times previously with Philip Stan- fashion. She surrounds herself with lt>y in Civic Players productions. weak men and has no compunction Following the new Mountebanks in exposing their weaknesses to policy of admitting all members of them, and drives home the point un- the college community, the part of mercifully \for their own best.\ the Rev. James Mavor Morrell wa·s But as Eugene grows stronger in taken by Harold F. Sylvester and character he challenges the citadel the part of Mr. Burgess was played of Victorian marriage and Candida, by Fred Burkett. Laura Winter act- sensing the collapse of Morrell. flies ed as Proserpine Garnett. Robert to him. But Eugene has shaken off Kohn played Eugene Marchbanks, the bonds of worship to Candida Entering college on June 22 were August A. Bielecki, .Schenectady; Myron Robert Buchdahl, Mechanic- ville; Robert E. Bischoff, Schenec- The production staff included: tady; Patrick Michael Cerretta, Production supervisor. Norman Amsterdam; John T. Di Sarro, Fenster; Construction, Saul Mt>isel, Schenectady; Harold J. Enstice, Vincent Palladino, James Herbert. Flushing; Joseph E. Fein, Po ugh- Robert McNulty; Electricity, Rob- lteepsie; William E. Howard, Al- ert Breiling, Wallace Macmillan; bany; Richard H. Lange, Schenec- Costumes, Mrs. Raymond Herrick: tndy; Charles Limart, Schenectady; Props, Eugene Hoke; Business, Grant Christopher Madill, Schenec- Robert Bishop, Marvin Epstein; tady; Philip Meyrowitz, Hoosick Assistants, Gary Behrendt, Norman Falls; John K. Mumford, Canajo- Bergen, Robert Caswell, Herbert harie; Lyman Gilletee Potter, Nor- Gade, Jack Hallahan, Robert Me- foil;, Conn.; Robert Reid, Jr., New Nulty, Glenn Morris, James Morten, Paltz; Maurice H. Rubin, Brooklyn; Jonathan Rowe, Walter Schulz, Ray Russell, Ilion; Juan J. -soto- Jane Szatkowski, James Tracy; mayor, West Englewood, N. J.; Publicity, Robert Bishop, Ransome Wallace Lodge Stock, Albany; Micks; Stage Manager, Robert Me- Charles H. Tracy. Schenectady; Nulty; Photography, Shiu Kong! William S. Trotter, Troy; and John Yuen. T. Lenahan, Albany.

~ .. •• • • • : : ·! ~ : ········: .. :·· .. · .... ::::::::::: . . . \' . . . \' :· : ..... · . . . . ::~- .... : .. : .. : .......... . UlQ.J? (!lotttOr~teU!ih1 MONDAY, AUG.USJ: 11~:19~2: EDITORIAL 2 ----------------------------~~----~~~~~:-·~··=·~'-t·-·~:,·~~T:,.~;~-----------------------------,----------------------------~----------------------------~--------------------------- .!1~ • 1:--~~:~ll~=~~'-tl:l'·::~:;,l(-<:l·c··_-- 1 ! ( ·,,llt>g·ia tt· I 'rt·~~ ntnl dh·- tributor: of t.lw (~ol'lt·p;iatt· 1 1 )igt:st: l{ppre::-t Hted lor I :'\ntHJHa.l .\dvPrti:-:ing· h) I ! Xational A{lverttHitrg- ~t .. l'\- , ll'<>, I'll<'., l'oH~gt• J'ullli~h- ilionrnr t·r~ ({L~pJ•••SL ... l'lt:lti\'t•, l~O :.Oladi~on .\ \'t'llllt>, :'\:p\\ \' \\'' t 'itr. --~-- ------------ ---~ Lieut .. ljgJ f. A. Wyatt Etlittll'IHl Offit't>, ~Hlinmn llall, l'niou l 'ollegt·. l'ull- lit•a Lion ( HCit·e, Till:' Ua.- z~ttt• J 'l'l\':-;s 33 I ~ta-te ::-H. Elltl'l'Pd il~ UH> Sl'h~HL'('­ ta.d,Y I 'o~t ( Hfil'e· tl:-\· ~et·- mul l'la~~ :\Ja.il .\lattt•r, :--nln·wriptiou !it· n t'(·IPY; $:~ )\t_ .. al': dP·II\'t•n•tl a.uywhen:.· ill tht> l'Hited ~ta.te~. year. Latest, unofficial reports had · S H it that Mr. William South would ummer ' · 0n0r become manager of Hale House n 1111 L. t 52 M . Dining Hall on September 1, thus .~0Uf9 · · 1$ 5 : . en terminating a 7-year per.iod during )1,\:'>iAt;I:-i(; B!L\Uil which the ca\n-pus dining hall has When the f·i·rst half of tne sum- been a part of the Cease Lunch· mer term was reached on July 6, System. WHford H. Ketz last week a total of 52 men had maintained re}Dlaced Fredrick A. Wya:tt at Di- an above \B\ average for the filst rector of Admissions as the latter :>even weeks. The sophomores led left to report !or duty with the: the way with 27 men, fol10wed by United States Navy. Wyatt was the seni0ts, with 15 and t-he juniors commissioned a lieutenant, junior with 10. The Dean's List, by classes, RolH•rt 11. lltllliH ........................ I >t·lt<t. l'p~ilou ll<>us\\ l-In~ ................. , .... , ..... EditoJ•-in·('hlt•f lht\ltl Hu..,t'nlutlln r..:::.qtp:t :'\:u llnu~t· 1-i:Ul ......................... Hu..,hu•\'!'l .:\l·anuq·pr (;rnng-Pr Trip}) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . l'h1 ~hnna Eapp~1 I lou:-:{' 1-lt::~t~.. . . . . . . . ...... :\l.nnu~·iuA' Edi·tor :llnrlt'.) J. Fhll'hnuP ............... . .... Kappa ='u llou~l· 1-i:~:n ...................... _.S}IOrt-.. Etlitor grade. is as follows: \Yu:ltt•r .J. :O,(•hul~ , ................. 1 ~~~:lth :-'L·(tlou, .:\'urth l'ulkgt:- -•i-ti!Hiti ••...•••..••.•.••••..•• Fc:a·ltl'l'(• Editor ~t~)mour Thidunuu ............. · ... l'•u :--:i~111a 1 1 vl·t.t llnu:-o:t· .tj-c,jci;,., ...................... t'hit•i ('upy Etlitor -x ornHHl ,, •• l•'ux . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ~ign1a l'hi I ,I at t 1-t:k:?l ....................... ·PholugTU,IJhie ·..:ttitur Two conferences we:·e held on the : campus during the summer. Mem- bers of the state .Civil Service Com- . mission from. all over New York State gathered here during the 1943 Robert Bishop, Emile J. Brunet, Ro·bert L. ·Carnright, S:l.!nuel J, Coppola, N01·man Fenster, Harvey J. Fishbone, Robert B. Gillie. Jchn J. Keenan, Robert M. Kohn, Leon Levine, Ha-rold M. Messenger, Jr., Robert B. Nemeroff, David H. Rosen•blum, Wal·ter Schulz, Norman WrubeL ( 'opJ Buard Htc·it:u d Ccctd), ~ta.nh·y l i·rt\ll .\ lt~t\'l t J..: rnllil ·k, c;l~III'gt._• ~l.idl'lt•tni:-:.:--. .\ lilt• I t Sa.Jrhur lit', S: 1 ul :\lt•J:o-t•l. ,Jat·.ub lit·dd:-l'IIIIP, ntl!l:-< 1.-\:Uli'II.lall. ~tla:-- :-\tt•ill- hat·J . ..J,Iil'll :\la~•ll1. .1•·~·-:t·ph ll'iti'TIIIIJI. Tllolll:l·:-- .J.:I.c,t:·rn:ttl H.u-.,illt'\'\' ~hut :\lt·lnliL' .\h .. :-:-.vngt·r. I)a\'ld H·o~t-nllluiil, ).ilat \'lit. l 'ra,lllt r. 'BtllHtl .l.t·t·lll . week of July 13, while a conference on -Iaber brought representatives of various labor organizations, as well as government agencies, during the weekend of August 1. THE E:ND A,ND THE BEGINNING The fo1·me1' Dh•l\<'tllr of Ad- missions, secretary of the- col- l!>ge, eon<'h of Iacross!' and ad- vis!'!' to the Outing Club, who IPft last weel{ to enter thP Unitt>d Rtat<>s Naval Rt>S!'l'Vt'. On the athletic side, classes it1 physical training under Professors Ketz and Wittner, the filst under the new college regulation, made regl!llar exercise possible for every fit member of the stude11t body. In addition, students have avaHed 1944 As this summer issue of The CoNcol'diensi::; goes to press, a ca::;ual glance ut the calendar tells us that just five more days of classes remain in this, the coHege's fit·st, wm·-time summer session. After these last few classes will come the ordeal of examinations, and then ... then a week or so to relax, then back to school again. It hasn't been a par- ticularly enjoyable summe1· for anyone here, when compared with other summers ·we've spent. But then, no one expected it to be. For those of us who derive so much enjoy- ment from those college activities outside the pale of the classroom it has been almost ted- ious. For those who are accustomed to spend their summet·s on the shores of a sunny lake or on the banks of some cooling stream, Ol' those who get a real kick out of simply being \home for the summer\ it has been even less pleasant. One of the things that bothered us nu little during the closing months of the 1941-42 col- lege ~'eat·, when the war was in its eal'ly stages was the inability of the college as ~l whole to gra::;p the seriousness of the situa- tion. At that time, Union was vainly at- tempting to hide behind its gray old walls, trying' to make believe that the wm· wasn't really serious enough to bother the life of the college. First evidence of this tendency was the firm belief, through the first few months, that draft legislation would never inte1·fere with one who wanted to finish his college education. \\'hen this myth \Vas blast- ed by the nation's need for manpo\\'er, the college began to realize just what the war could and would probably mean. Then came the summer session, and with it the realization that the connection between the necessity of continuing study through the summer and into next fall and the forces of the war itself was a close one. And the war was coming closer. Casualty lists began to include names familiar to us. By now, three l!Hion men have ma<.ie the supreme sacrifice, and with the news of' each of' these casua-lties, UNion men have paused, for a moment, to think. When the rest of the college returns next month to start another year, we feel ce1tain it ,., ill be a vastly different one f1•om the lJ nion which closed up shop last .i\lay. It will be a college that realizes its responsibilities, al'ld one whose members also realize that their most important job is to finish their schooling as quickly and as efficiently as pos- sible. Summer School · themselves of the eight tenl'lis courts whenever the courts happen- . ed to be in playing condition, <Col'ltinued f1om Pag~ 1> which, as a matter of fact, wasn't few and far between. The summer very often, and intramura!l softbaH student council, after Hs election has ·been played twice a week dur- early in July, sponsored an infor-' ing the evenings. mal sport dance in Alumni Gym- That was the picture of Union nasium on the night of July 25, an during the past three and a half event which drew about 130 couples months. The weather, the element and enabled the council to break most feared by returning Union even financia.Hy. President and men at the outset, has been more Mrs. Fox were the sponsors of a than kind, with excessively hot steak roast in Jackson's Gardens days few and far between. Student one evening in July, the guests of morale has been considered brea-k- honor being the members of the ing by some, holding remarkably freshman class who began their col- well, by others. And the college it- lege careers in June. -Members of self has never been more attractive, the student council were also in- from an artistic point of view. And, urgent as the need for manpower vited to the roast, at whic·h the out- ---0•---- mav now be it is still apr)arent that the door culinary ar~ of Mess:s. St~n- Tunstall in All-Star Game • ' ley, E. S. C. Sm1th and S1d Sm1th Army and Navy -still believe in the impor-1 were placed on display and then Brooke 'f·unstall starred for the tance of finishing colleO'e as evidence bv' qu.ickly de~oured. Spasmodic af- Northern aH-stars in the a-nnual Ia- . . . \' ' ·1 fa1rs at varwus of the campus fra- crosse game played in Baltimore in the!!' willmgness to allow the thousands of ternity hou~es, including ~wo. all- June. Tunstall scored the North's college students now emolled in the l'eserve 1 college affa1rs, one ·at Ph1 Stgm~ first goal and was credited with an . . . . . . Delta and the other at Delta Ups1- assist on another goal when a pass umts to fuush then· educatiOn. In spite of Jon rounded out the summer social to Herb Fitch of Hobart was netted cvnical observers (and we have ret to find calendar·. . . . for a goal. Eddie Enstice, who was • . • . News of lastmg and Wider mter- also chosen on the Northern squad, I such a one 111 the Armed Forces himself), est broke duting the summer ses- played defense in the second half. who class colleo·e students enrolled in the re- sion. Mel Hein's appointment as Tunstall was also selected to play I \' I head football coach for 1943 was an- on one of the squads which gave serve forces along with \gas chiselers\ and I nov'1ced, and Professor.s Ma~·ch and an exhibition in the Polo Grounds 1 1 \dn.tft dod<>'ers\ it l'emains om· finn opinion 1 . Keilo~g announced the1r retJremei?-t for the benefit of the Army Emer- \' ' effective after the next academic g-ency Relief Fund. 1 that. as long as the people who are calling the signab fur Uncle Sam think it is ::;afe to I let American youth finish college, then it is Robert G. Caswel-l, Jr., Ronald B. Epstein, Robert J. Herman, Ed- ward L. Johnson, Nicholas Milano, Vincent S. Palladino, Kenneth E, Snyder, Clifford M. Tepper, Sey- me:mr Thicltman, Daniel Wit. 1945 A. Melcher Anderson, Harold R. Boroson, Robert J. Brockh\:llst, R. A. Calandruccio, Joseph Dusenbury, William H. ·Eger, Seymour H. Glu- croft, Jack Goldstone, Richard Griffing, James W. Herbert, Eu- gene E. Hoke, Boris R. Kaufman, Joseph B. Mann, Jr., John M. Ma- son, John A. McCarthy, Robert Mc- Nulty, Alvin L. Meentemeier, Bor- den H. Miils, Jr., Milton J. Neu- bauer, Jr., Melvin Pomeranz, Gary K. Prince, Robert Schamberger, Charles V. Smith, Robert M. Trevi- thiclt, Armand D. Versaci, Irwin Welber, Chester V. Zabielski. UNION MEN Be Completely Well Groomed For· Rush Week GET A HAIRCUT ACME BARBER. SHOP Where Service is a Pleasure 509 Union St. Phone 4-4525 the thing to do to stay in school. Thus it will I be that at least 90(/r of the college will be in a 1·eserve classification next fall. And so it should be. When and if it becomes necessary fo1· those men to be called up they will be called. No one has need to doubt that. And . when and if that happens, there will be no: need for colleges, or universities, or text I IJouks, or footballs, or tennis rackets or pro- fessors of government. But, until that does happen, the college has a definite function to perform, and let us be thankful that it has NEWS FROM HOME the chance to do so. ABOUT THIS ISSUE It hasn't been easy to get this issue to press. But we felt there was a definite need for a Concordy sometime this summer, if for no other reason than to record the events of Union's first war-time summer school for posterity. Thete isn't much news in this pal'- ticular issue that nearly everyone hasn't read some\vhere before. But we hope it will serve as a sort of' history of the summer ses- sion, so that historians of the future may be able to look back and see what Union was do- ing during World War II, just as we were looking back, a few months ago, to see what Union was doing during World War I. Then, too, this issue is being sent to the 300-odd applicants for admission in the fall,' so the paper really has a two-fold mission. And there has been an attempt made to keep these two purposes in mind during the pub- lication of it: first, to record the history of the last three and a half months, and second, to familiarize the entering class with the events which will take place during the first few weeks in September. Incidentally, if present plans come to fruition, there will be an issue for distribution only at Freshman 'I Camp, which will attempt to give a clear pic-. tm·e of the college, its personalities, its insti- tutions and traditions ,to the iNcoming fresh- man class. THE LAUREL WREATH It is a curious thing about human nature that we never seem to realize the true value of anything or anyone until we have to do without that thing or that person. Ameri- cans are beginning to find that out with re- gard to rubber and gasoline. Union and its alumni will, we suspect, soon begin to realize the fact with regard to two men, both alumni, who have l'ecently g·iven up positions of importance in the college organization. For the wot·k they did, often unappreciated and often unjustly criticized, as Director of Admissions and as Editor of the Alumni l\Ionthly, Frederick A. Wyatt and D. Richard Weeks deserve the hearty thanks and appre- ciation of the eNtire college. And we suspect that the first two people to realize and to acknowledge the truth of that fact will be their successors. 'IN LINE OF DUTY 1 Lieut. Eugene S. McKenna, 1940 Lieut. G. Dudley Holmes, 1941 Lieut. W. Kirby Van Zandt, 1942 Supplement his meager letters by_subscribing to The Concordiensis, the newsy weekly newspaper. Follow his college life as well as the college careers of his fraternity broth- ers and fellow students as they are chronicled on the general news, the editorial and sports pages; in the news, social, humor, scientific, and sports column of his student newspaper. Keep up with the doings of his faculty, and the administration of his col- lege by reading the only Union student publication that is devoted solely to news of Union and Union students. Thirty issues (of which this is the first) mailed the afternoon of publica- tion direct from the press room cost but $2.00. Merely fill out the inclosed card and drop it in a mail box-we pay the postage! We will bill you in the fall. mbn /'1Tlttt·tnr~t·I\U!it . .B F 0 L L 0 W S HIM BY TYpE AND W ~ W 11 ~ PICTURE THROUGH UNION Send THE CoNCORDIENSIS to: NAME .. STREET AND NUMBER CITY AND STATE \ 3 Ml N,ew 39 ;B Hein N Of Ass Of Phy Melvin J center of Giants, co standing ( been a}Dpoi b:.tll and physical Janua1y 1, early this Fox. Professo: rector of 1l wiB give f physical tr tor the du dition stud A1t Lawre head coact of 1941, wi Hein, AI charge of team last ~ this fall w remain to 'l'he ann pointment Hat denial circulating making U dent Fox s come befo fulflll a York Gian ] Dr. Fm statement pointment corned at l is as well like what the world Several announcen the air th~ as assista1 appointed Yale, com· stories in that Heir coaching c Commenti: D1. Fox l gratified announced vitation a order to j of a small Dr. Fox that \righ in Arthm which, wit likely to J: Mel Hei California Mel's le the high J Burlingto1 which he periods. J. fourteen I basketball 1927 he e College, rr: tion and degree fol At the c he won f1 ball, bask< the All-P: and 1930, cific CoaJ 1930 and the same lege perfc Rose BoY' 1931. Mel has Giants fo and is r twelfth Y' Superior, in 120 co and only for him. official team for and in 1! Valuable been cap1 past eigh He and g 11111111111 p _s F Sty At 1 - pay. for pock 2 F 1imm nm

6, s, t, n ., n 1' 3 SPORTS MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 1942 'lJ4t C!!ntttllfbltUSi.S MEL HEIN APPOINTED FOOTBALL COACH FOR 1943 N·ew York Gi.ants 39 :Bids To Fall· Hein 'Named to Position Of Associate Professor Of Physical Education Melvin J. (~vie!) Hein, captahi and center of the New Yor·k Fo0tball Giants, considered to •be the ·OUt\• standing center 0f all time, has been appointed head c0ach of foot- b:.tll and associate professor of physical edu.cation commencing' January 1, 1943, it was announced early this summer by President Fox. Professor J. Harold Wittner, Di- rector of Athletics, stated that Hein wiH give full time to the expanded physical training prog-ram in force tor the duration of the war t0 con- dition students for military service. At t Lawrence, who was designated head coa:ch 0f football in the spring of 1941, will !'ernain as assistant to Hein. Al Ciampa, who was in charge of the freshman footbaii team last year, will assist Lawrence this fall with the line and wi'll a:lso remain to work on Hein's staf.f. The announcement of Hein's ap- pointment came after a number of flat denials of rumors which were circulating as early as March. In making the announcement, Presi- dent Fox stated that Hein could not come before Janu.a:t·y as he had to fulfill a conttact with the New York Giants this fall. Fox's Statf'ment Dr. Fox ;,;sued the following statement with regard to the ap- pointment: \Mel He in will be wel- comed at Union College for what he is as well as for what he does. We like what Mel Hein stands for in the world of sport.\ Several weeks before the official announcement, rumors had 'been in the air that Hein would take a post as assistant to H0wie Odell, newly appointed head coach of football at Yale, commencing this fall. Other stories in New York papers stated that Hein might take over the coaching duties \at a smaH college.\ Commenting upon Hein's choice, 1 Dr. Fox said \We cannot but be I gratified that, as he has publicly announced, he has declined the in- vitation of a great university in order to join in the teaching work of a small college.\ Dr. Fox was careful to point out that \right now we are interested in Arthur Lawrence's 1942 ter.m, which, with added new material, is likely to be pretty effective.\ Mel Hein was born in Redding, California in August, 1909. Mel's legendary career began in the high school of Bellingham and Burlington, Washington, both of which he attended for two year periods. As !'. schoolboy, he earned fourteen letter awards in football, basketball, baseball and track. In 1927 he entered Washington State College, majoring in physical educa- tion and graduated with the B. S. degree four years later. Brilliant Career At the outset of his college career he won fresehman awards in foot- ball, basketball and track. He made the All-Pacific Coast team in 1929 and 1930, was a member of the Pa- cific Coast championship team in 1930 and was named All-American the same year. He climaxed his col- lege performance by playing in the Rose Bowl on New Year's Day in 1931. Mel has been with the New York Giants for the past eleven seasons and is now in training for his twelfth year at the Giants camp in Superior, Wisconsin. He has played in 120 consecutive league contests and only once was time taken out for him. Mel was a member of the official all professional football team for eight consecutive years, and in 1938 he received the most Valuable Player award. He has been captain of the Giants for the past eight years. He and his wife, the former Flor- Star Turns P'r a·ctice A·re Down :Issued Yale Of:fer; By Lawrence <!>------- Honored by IC4A <!> This Year's Practice For 1943 To Start Se,ptember 2; Trinity Here for Opener ; Fal•l football practice begins for 39 · men on Wednesday September 2 at 10 a. m. on Graduate Council Field 1:tnder the direction of head coach Art Lawrence and AI Ciampa. Two · sessions wi'l'l be held daily for the : first week of drHls. ART LAWRENCE Fall Sports Schedule Football Sept. 26-Trinity Oct. 3-Hobart <awayl Oct. 10- Middlebury <awayl Oct. 17-Vermont Oct. 24-R. P. I. <away) Oct. 31-Williams Nov. 7-Rochester !away> Nov. 14-Hamilton Cross Country Oct. 3-Vermont Oct. 10-open Oct. 17-Middlebury Oct. 24-R. P. I. <away) Oct. 31-Williams Nov. 7-Brooklyn Poly (away) ---0·--- NOTICE Sophomores who plan to graduate under the three year plan and freshmen who expect to graduate under the four year plan and who are interested in becoming candi- dates for manager of the varsity football team should contact Mel Messengei: at the gymnasium on September 2 or during the first week of foot·ball practice. ence Porter, were classmates at Washington State college and mar- ried following their graduation. They have a daughter, Sharon Lynn, three, and a son, Melvin Jack, Jr., 19 months. The footbaH picture is not very bright for the Dutchmen this faR Art Lawrence lost ten men through graduation, while four other letter- men are not returning to coHege this year. The only rays of hope lie i-n three possi·bilities. The f.irst is that the sophomores win be able to give a good account of themselves. The second is that the second strimg material show some improvement, while the thir-d possibility is the freshmen who, under a new ruling, become eligible for varsity baH in their first year. 5 Lettermen Report Hal Wittner, Director of Ath- When drills begin for the Garnet squad, Lawrence will have on hand five lettermen to serve as a nuclel:ls letics, was elected to the executive for his starting eleven. In addition committe!' of the IC4A at a meet- to them he wil have some promising ing in New Yorl{ City Last month. sophomores and juniors. The fresh- men possibHities cannot be stated for certain as yet, but Hal Enstice, a brother of Eddie and all-Metropol- itan end, and LeRoy Siegel, high scoring back from Nott Terrace High School, are among the fresh- man prospects. Ketz Has High Hopes For HHI and Dalers Genial Bill Ketz, who is cross- country coach in addition to being a commissioner of this and a direc- tor of that, has been putting his new edition of a cro~s country team through its paces for about a week. Bill is taking no chances that his men wi'Il be in condition for their ftrst meet on October 3. Doug Slingerland, starting tackle, is not returning to college this fall. Dick Hoffman and Bruno Schulze, both lettermen and guards, are in the Navy. Walt Galuszka, a half- bask, is the fourth letterman who is not returning. He and Bruce Burns, also a halfback, are in the Army. Hank Gorski, a sophomore lineman, Jim Quinlan, who led the fresh- has also been lost to the squad. man squad last year, George Middle- miss, Whizzer White, Bill Eger and Many Replacements Needed Harding Brown (who should be if The returning lettermen include he isn't) have covered the ;p1, mile Ken Sharpe, quarterback, Dick course already. In addition to these Hoffman, a guard, Cliff Platt and candidates, Ketz has captain Chuck Greg McKennis, ends, Bill Hill, a Snell, Jules Viglielmo, Bob Shep- tackle, and Harvey Kayne, a guard, ard, and track captain Wally Mac- are the junior lettermen who con- Millan, on his squad, who will re- stitute the nucleus for the Dutch- men. port when the fall term begins. Thus Lawrence is faced with the Three prospects, Jack Schultz, task of finding suitable material to Bob \Scoop\ Bishop and Judd Grey, fill the gaping holes left by the have been uncovered in the gym graduation of ten men and the toll class, according to Ketz, and might taken by the services. Last year's prove to be valuable this fall. record is an unpleasant reminder at Although the Garnet harriers had this time, and if the Dutchmen are a poor season last year, Bill looks to have a successful season, Art forward to a much more successful Lawrence will have to spend a great one this year. With a veteran squad deal of time with some good rna- on hand this fall, the Dutchmen terial left from last year's squad should be able to give their oppo- <Continued on Page 4) I nents a run for their money. WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. For Watch and Jewelry Repairing, Engraving, Pens, and the Finest Gifts. • CORNER STATE AND CENTER STREETS Schenectady Engraving Co. Engravers for The Concordiensis • 147 JAY STREET PHONE 4-9002 GAZETTE PRESS PRINTING Thet·e is a good deal to t·eli'urt un the spirit and attendance of the the s.pm·ts scene un the campus this 1 student budy at practice sessions summer, alth0ugh must of the sum. : and in tlw stands at the games. mer \colonists\ :here have been d0- I ing mole work than during the reg- . The ·mnasium ro ram has ular year. Summer sch0ol hasn't . g~ . p g . . . been m swmg for some thirteen meant only .classes; 1t has meant : weeks, and Commissioner Ketz and gym three ttmes per week; and a Hal Wittner would undoubtedly cu;t means tw'? makeups. call it a success. The program con- !he most tmportant news It.erP sists of ten minutes of ca.Jisthenics this summer has. been the ap,pmnt- to \warm up\ the class, then, de- ment of Ml'l HPm .who tal~e.s ov~r ~ pending upon the day, the class the football coaching pos1hon m either runs 2 mi'les, .plays softbaU Januar~·· Sports ?o.mmentators and or speedball, or \plays games.\ The colum_rusts m ~dd1bon to man~· out- latter term is misleading, .for the standmg ml''_l m the world of sports . so-cal·led games consist of leap ·ratE\. Mel HPm as the. greatest ~en-! frog, the length of Graduate Coun- ter m footb~l, both mte.rcollegm~e cil Field, \horseback\ riding, the and Pl'O~esswnal. <;e~·tamiJ 1\-Iel.s whecl'barrow, and running up the outstandmg record IS ample tt'sh- h'll 'th 3 ftb 11 D · th mony to that fact. ! .t . WI so a s. urmg e We are particularly fortunate in : lust few weeks of the program fel- having his with us what with Yale 1 lows hobbled around t~e campus, ' . . • so don't feel seJ.f-conscwus about and several other Intercollegiate· t'ff · · t d t d h d ir;stitutions ~aking overtmes ~o l ~~insJ~~·i~:~he a::~:~ ewe:~s e~f ~~e !:urn. As President Fox has pu:, 1t, program. You'll develop big, bulg- Mel w1ll be welcomed here for . 1 ·r ·t k'll what Mel Hein is as weH as what lng muse es, 1 t t s you. he does .... We like what Mel Hein \ * * stands for in the world of sport.\ A summer intramural softball '' * * league was formed and five teams The other day the tenant of this were organized. North College, cotner received a letter from Mel, with alumnus Bob Hallenbeck and we thought we'd pass it along pitching, is leading the league. The to you. It reads as follows: Delta Upsilon-Phi Gam team was \I can honestly say 1 am very hopeful of copping the pennant, ?ut pleased upon my appointment as a Bob HaJ. ner asks u~ not t? men twn member of yow· athletic depart-' It! The Kappa S1gs allted them- ment. I selves with the Phi. Sign; a. Delts, I had the pleasure of meeting 1 an~ Ka?~a Nu, under Dune Ber- several of your alumni and faculty ?er s ,gmdmg hand, has been play- members last winter. 1 lool• for- mg lone wolf. The Betas started wat'd to being with them and with out with a team, but nobody knows the colle\'P these men re~reJSent what has happened to it. Perhaps \' · Earl Goodrich was too busy follow- Sincerely yours, ing the major league race and get- (signed) Mel Hein ting into the At·my Reserves. \' '' * An all-star campus team was When Art Lawrence's gridmen formed and has played a number of t10t out onto Alexander Field on local games. The team includes the 26th of September to meet Trin- Earl Goodrich, Bob Hayner, Char- ity in the opener of this year's ley Keeler, Bob Gillie, Amon Nellis, ca;mpaign, the Garnet will present, Walt Breed, Wally MacMillan, Ted a large number of new faces. The I Vinick, Sammy Coppola, and Woody prospects for the season are not 1 Greiner. rosy at the presPnt time. The prob- lem facing Art at the moment ap pears to be whether he can mold a strong team from tne relatively in- experienced men who report for practice on September 2. ·whether or not the team '\ill have a successful ~·ear will depend upon the spirit and fight shown by the team members themselves and * * * A certain dog has been bothering Bo·b Caswell during calisthenics .... Local urchins have been gleeful spectators during calisthenics. . .. The fellows in the 7 o'clock gym class have a swell time .... A large number of fellows have taken makeups with this section for the cContinued on Page 4) UNION COLLEGE BOOK STORE Complete Line of Textbooks and Supplies for All Courses • RING BOOK COVERS • SPIRAL NOTEBOOKS • DESK SETS • DESK LAMPS • LAUNDRY CASES • COLLEGE BANNERS • COLLEGE SEAL JEWELRY • FOUNTAIN PENS • GREETING CARDS • RENTAL LIBRARY REGULAR HOURS 1ST 6 WEEKS-HOURS 8:45 I :15 12:00 5:00 8:45 1:00 SATURDAYS: 8:45 - 12 Noon 12:30 5:00 North Wing - Washburn Hall

MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 1942 UCRS Carriers On ! Through Summer : Of Broadcasting Radio Station Maintains Schedule Under .Leadership Of Yergin and Wit Under the leadership of Presi- dent Pa·ul Yergin '44, The Union College Radio Socioety, opetators of station UCRS, remainC'd one of the few campus activities continuing its operations throughout the sum- mer session. The station managed to rema.in on the air for twelve hours a week this summPr despite a severe lack 0 f announcers and technicians. UGRS i~ expected to begiH its fall operations with a staff of a·pproxi- nla.tely Pight announcers and four technical men. BE':sides operating the station during the sumn1er an extensiYe Pnlat-ging program has bePn car- tied on under Yergin's din•ct!on. The entit·e \Vil\ing- systern i:::;. hPi·ng l'hl'cked and repait·Pd whPn•vet· needed. Thr studio is being renD- vatNi and bPsides being equipped wiht a new transmitter and con- trol table it is expected that the broadca><t in~ sect ion will he en- closed in glass to facilitate an im- provement in the acoustics of the studio. According to an announcement by Daniel Wit '44, program direc- tor of the station, the staff is con- sidel'in~ broadcasting many of the leading campus events by means of t·emote pickups ft om the scc•ne of the happenings. Included in this will be intramural baseball, foot- ball and other athletic events. A great increase in campus news and sports coverage is also planned. Last yC'ar·s regular news progran1s wHI bP continued with an increa~c in time and fretJUency. Addt>d to this will be a number of government sponsored pt·og.rams of an informative nature of the ca,liber of the popular You Can't no Busint'SS with Hitlt'r presenta- tion of last year. One that has been pr·csented during the summer is a program featuring the nati\·e music of the various Latin Ameri- can nations. One of thP popular programs of last yeat· that will be brought back in thP fall on a larger scalP is the quiz program. This is the program that featured a battle of \\'its and knowledge betWN'n various· mem- bers of the faculty and of the stu- dent body. Officers of Station UORS are Uaul YPtgin, president; Daniel \\'it, program director; :Marvin Ep- stein, business manager, and Frank Czech, technical director. ---0---- Student Council !Continued ftom Page ll council to break even financially. Several faculty couples attendf'd, as well- as a numher of the mem- bers of the Civilian Pilot Tmining group. quartered for the summer on campus. :0.1embers of the summer school who W<'l'(' ele>cted to the council at Assembly on June 15, were: Rob- ert Carnwt ight and Robert Gillte '43; Wallace Morgan '44; and George Middlemiss, Colin Taylor and Armand Varsaci '45. These men supplemented Hayner, Clowe, Albert Rimddi '44, and Sterling Huntington '44, who were elected to the regular Stundent Council last April. In Schenectady It's for Shirts .'VeH' Editor Final Exam Schedule Summ~r TPrm, 1942 ! !All examin9.tions will be held in i the Chemistry Lecture Room.) I Monday, August 21 9 A. M.-English 1 rFreshmenl 1 Social Studies 37 IF. L. BRONNEH, '2:~ Bronner Alumni To Edit Monthly !Named to Succeed Weeks When Latter Resigns Editorship of Publication Fr rdt•rirlt L. BronnPr, '23, Asso- ciate Profes>!ot· of Histoty, has ·been appointed Pditor of the Alumni C'llon-thly. according to an announce- ment bv President Fox early this summet:. Dr. Bronner succeeds D. Rirhard \\'eek~. '28, who, for the past few years, has served in that capadty. Dr. BronnPr came to Union in 1923, the year of his gt aduation. has since done graduate work at Har- V>Htl Cni\·er\ity. He has held teach- ing .positions at Radcliffe, as well ·rs at the two institutions where he studied. Bt>otdt•s itis new job, Dr. Bronner has served us an off1cet of the ::icllenectadv Histuncal Society, the Union Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa and has been both t.t·ustee and ad- \'iser of his fraternity, Delta Up- silon. 0 -- CPT, RAF Units Here r Continued from Page 1) <.luring tile evening. They are tak- ing flight training a't the Schenec- <ad;.· County Ait·pm t. Included in the CPT group a,re Bernard Haake '42 and Richard 2 P. M.-Elements of Electrical Engineering Physics 3 Tuesday, August 25 9 A. M.--Social Studies 35 2 P. M.-French 20b German 2 Wednesda~·. August 26 9 A. M.- Social Studies 11 2 P. M.-Mathematics 2 I includ- ing Freshmen) Mathematics 11 Mathematics 21 Thursda~·, August 27 9 A. M.-English 12s Psychology Social Studies I2 2 P. M.- Spanish 1 Friday, August 28 9 A.M. ·Social Studies 1 rFresh.l Social Studies 47 2 P. M. -Chemistry 11 Chemistry 12 Saturday, August 29 9 A. M.- Eng.Jish 10 Social Studies 10 ----0 ----- Off the Record r Cont:\ued ft•om Page 3) novelty, and then went back to bed for the rest of the morning .... Did ;, ou ever 1 un 2 miles on an empty stomach at 7:15? ... Hal Wittner picked us up on the wa~ to an 8, on his \late\ day ..... The way to beat the gym program 1s to miss running or games and take 2 makeups in softball. ... That's why 411 fellows showed up for an 11:20 several weelts ago. Dt .'s \Joe\ Doty and Sylvester have been play- ing a lot of tennis with the colon- ists .... It doesn't always .pay to loaf through calisthenics, for some- times it costs a quarter around Alexander Field. We're all waiting for Al Ciampa and Art Lawrence to run with the gym classes ... The Saratoga track opened its 30-day meeting with many people from the capital dis~.rict. New York City, and Union College in attend- ance. A girl from Russell .Sage last Saturday collected in almost every Wyatt ex-'44. . race. An advance story on the The present CPT course IS ex- opening said that for one month p.ected to fi~;sh o~ . Septe~1ber 1;. I now the town would be lively ... I\ hen the ptesent pOUf' v.tll mme. well ... All of which reminds us on to othP;: .s .. tati·o.ns. ~ome will 1 that Dick Conly will not run ':'ith en IPI the ::'\.•:> All Cot ps .. othc~s the x-country team this fall :;mce the Arm~· Air Corp,;, whtle still he is training for the marathon others wtl~ .return here ~or. sec- run-to .Saratoga. The cbus fare, if ondary trammg. A new umt ts ex- you are interested, has been re- pectf'd after Septemb<'r 14. a con- duced from 70c to 53c See you soon. dition whieh will probably compli- · rate rooming arrangements in the ;----------------------· dormitories. Students living in the t t dorms may be asked to \double up\ : Ideal Barber Shop : next year, according to cm'l'ent re- • 448 State Street I ports, whilC' it may be necessary I I for the Hale House management l -Our Service is Ideal l to sprve thP e>vening meals next 6 . I year in two \shifts to take care of 1 1 -Just Try One Ha1rcut 1 the added dinet·s. I :_ _______________________ ! Anything you need? Call GUERRAgS PHARMACY \WE DELIVER\ 600 Union St. Simply Phone 6-9419 The Dining Hall for Union Men For Many Years and Prepared to Again Satisfy You m m iii With the Finest Food m ::: ::: m ill w ~ m and m ~m m :!~~ Cheerful Service m ·m ill HALE HOUSE Football !Continued from Page 3) and the sophomores and freshmen who have yet to get a taste of the b1 and of ball played in va·rsity com- petition. Frank Jones, a senior or Bob Mendelson, a sophomo1 e, .Js expect- ed t0 fHI the gap left by Bob Baker, last year's center and captain. Bob Bartlett, a sophomore, is expected to be one .of the best backs to wea:r the Garnet uniform in the last few years, while Reggie Carroll, a soph- ·omore back, and Hal Fox, a tackle, should a.Jso measure up pretty weH. Karl Klarman, reserve quarterback, with the experience gained last fall, and Ed Green, a senior, may also see .plenty of action. Among thm:e who received invi- tations are: Clark Alberts, PleasantviJ:le, Conn.; Mickey Anderson, Baston; Bob Bartlett, Ogdensburg; Ed Bates, Pittsfield; Gera'ld Buyce, Speculator; Reg Carroii, Whitehall; Don Carstens, Baltimore; Tom Flynn, White Plains; John Ford, Al- bany; Hal Fax, Schenectady; Art Gilmore, Broaklyn; Ed Gveen, Briar- cliff Manor; Ed Harvey, Windsor, Conn.; Bill Hill, Fulton; Wa'lt Ho- chuli, Chicago; Hank HochuH, Bloomfield, N. J.; Dick Hoffman, Baltimore; Frank Jones, Schenec- tady; Harvey Kayne, GloversviUe; Karl Klarman, Schenectady; Bob Lang, White Plams; Bob LaPann, Glens Falls; Art LeRoy, Long ]B- land; Chet Marvin, Boston; Greg Mendelson, Boston; Dick Pease, Schenectady; Cliff Platt, Lynbrook, L. I.; Don Quigley, Coxsackie; Dick Raymond, East Am·ara; Dick Rob- sky, White Plains; Ken Sharpe, Pas- adena, Calif.; John Short, Kingston; Phil Siskind, New Rochelle; Max Slee, Poughkeepsie; Ed Smith, Ilian; Silas Steinhart, Olean; Bud Taylor, Schenectady, and Brooke Tunstall, Baltimore. In addition, 35 or 40 freshmen will report. ---0·--- Former Teacher Here Gets New Appointment The President's Office announced last month that Dr. J. George Lutz, who served as Instructor in Chem- istry at Union during the years 1935 to 1937, and who since that time has been Professor of Chemistry in the Albany College of Pharmacy, has transferred to Hofstra College, Hempstead, Long Island, where he is now the Chairman of the Chem- istty Department. BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS GENERAL 4 Fined Concert A:rtists Summer Concerts~ (Continued from Page 1) JOHN DUDLEY IV. Duet: \The Enchantment of Hoffman\ from The Tales made up entirely of airs by Gilbert of Hoffman ...... Offenbach r:nd Sullivan. V. ,Duet: \None Shall Part Us\ Miss Eustis is American-bam and from Iolanthe . . . . . . . . . . . . . ftom early childhood has accepted ........ Giibert and Sullivan 1 a family tt·adition that she become Miss Eustis and Mr. Dudley a concert artist. She studied at the VI. I canaot tell, from ''Patience\ Julliard School in New York and at. When a Merry Maiden Mar- Curtis Institute in Philadelphia. She ries, from \The Gondoliers\ is at present probably best known Were I Thy Bride, from \Yeo- for her work at Radio City's Music men of the Guard\ Hall . .She has sung with the leading Tawer Song, from \Yoemen symphony orchestras throughout of the Guard\ the country and over the radio. Miss Eustis John Dudley comes from Aus- VII. A Wandering Minstrel I, tl'alia. He has sung with the Metro- Is Life a Boon, from \Yoe- politan since 1940. In his initial sea- from \The Mikado\ son there, he made more appear- men of the Guard\ ances than any other newcomer. Would You Know the Kind of Prior to that, Mr. Dudley sang in Maid, from \Ruddigore.\ Australia and in London. In 1937, Take a Pair of Sparkling he joined the D'Oyly Carte Opera Eyes, from \The Gondoliers\ Co. as the leading lyric tenor. In Mr. Dudley New York he won immediate sue- VIII. Duet; Refrain, Audacious cess and after his successful opeta Tar, from \Pinafore\ and personal appearances he io; now Miss Eustis and Mr. Dudley on his fil·~t extended concert tour Note: The last three groups are of the United States. Interested in Schenectady Interested in U N I 0 N MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 Jay Street Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER AND SCHAFFER PENS PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Schenectady lll::::::::::m::::::::::::::m:::::::::::::::::::::::m::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::m::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::m::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::m::::::m:::::::::::::::::::::::~; ::: :: ::: ;: The \WELCOME MAT\ ts always there for Union Men who appreciate our traditions of good serviCe, good fo?d, good liquor, and good service to Union. ... .. .. Van Curler Tap Room Vol. LXVI. Clas Groa Tentati Regidr For Co Seven-hu t·egistered tatlve repo pubJ.ication seniors, 1: tnores, an rrta1tes the est enterin tative infc seniors ar< in Decemb1 classes is Figures show that including ~ sophomore: tered in J dents. Tw accelerated Members are as foil *Indi<'atf' Robert Adams, Do Albright J Scott C. , Baket·, *Rc Daniel P. Bates, LPV Behan, Cli1 A. Bielec!; Robert E. *Fletcher 1 Lamoyne Blum, *Ste L. Borelli, Anthony I Edwin c. 1 Frank J. ham, Fred( F. Brooks, ron R. Buc Michael A. rara. Fred1 Pat tick Cartoon, P. V. Colgan thony F. Cornell, *\ cis Cuda, Wooster Cusano, D J. Davern, A. Q. Dav Christophe Dempster, Leo H. I Robert J. Gerald G Egly, *Aui Eustice, G Harold 1 Jr, J. St Feigen'bau Joseph E. John J. F1 P. Frelick James Jl. J. Ellis G: Angelo G1 mell, EdVIi B. Goad, *George N *J. Be: Grossman, Charles J. rez, *Aile Hackett, 1 ert D. Ha: Harry F dell, Robe E. Hempt' William J. man, *Art K. Hill, Jr Howard man, Jam Holoska, liam E. t ell, *Lawl E. HupmE William Jankowsk A. Johnsc thur A. J Donald K K. Kusse: Frank Lange, GE Larios, R C. Lee, J· Lenahan, E. Lessor Franltli Lewis, Cl A. Litke, bert B. I quist, F Charles F G. Chr' Maher, C H. Matsr M. Mart thews, 1\ Stuart M Donald. *Edwa1 C. McM: (C1

UCRS Carriers On Through Summer Of Broadcasting Radio Stat1oet Maintains Schedule Under Leadership Of Yet·gin and Wit II. T;·, 1 1 ! t- -I ['n!t•l :\\-! I (. i ' r \ tile I I ~ : \ t i •! \\ 1 I: I I II: I :JJ•· d I d:t .. ! I 1 .t I t !J \ 1' tJ'' i Ill - 1 ~~}I 1\j_ ht •11' 't ol' -.'lin Ill I ! I • I I ~ It ·!I 111: 1 '\o·J'.t' \•.,:11:.-. :t ·tl:l!••\lllt. ) .. \.,.1 :,,.; I •Jtt': 'tl.!tJI' ... \\ ; '!. j ~· 'tlt ttl' ''1'1''\'' •!' •: !'· 1U 'l 1 11 '•, '. '• ,.· !',t',t: !l I Jl . ,,· ' ; , cj 'I', ' ' l\t ,j !;t t-•tlt ,, ;·' I· ''I·•·! .It .I.- .. ·,!I. lilt I ·.trt: I: y, '- '\ \\,: ; I:- ......... •' :J, '.,,j I• /' tll -\ •-\.!•: -.; ,. o! ,.,, \\ ! ' ' ~ I . ' ... • ~I •. :\ 1'- J,, L- ''1'1.;·:··-·i 1,1;-; II! 1' t'l .I ,• I \ ~ •t 't' 1 10{ -: .... t.' t· ,, l.lt',t1• •J; II '!I tl:tJ••ttJ.(, tr.•·lt' j •I ·-! l il; .j, t •'t r. ,. , .. • .- , :-- t .1' 11 ''· t! .• .. :t t!· 1 ... • , •tt L de. I.._ f' ifl__ ! j I 1 \ I •t !' !' I :0 .Hl!f;k I lflif'o~._ t- \' '.',-. h\ flit .1: .. to' It :t ,,·, I'·'; ... ; ... ' 1 '11JJ, I I .. ,., !.t ••!' ... , I I •j ,, I' l I.- ... ,I t.. 1 :f,ll' ,\!I; 1.~ 1 .!ltd ,.t ',,I t1!. . ' ,, . \ • !. t . .. r;.: L ·~· ,\,•!I L· .:. t::t.• ,, - ' ' ........ l.• • ~ ; I ' I ', \ ' • \ !:t •!''' 1:• .\ t~' .. \ - i :· t!; ::I !•- 1.-.. 1 .I tltlllll•t MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 1942 Bronner Alumni To Edit Monthly Named to Succee;:l Weeks When latter Resigns ~cl!Vorship of Pt1blication [• ,,.,j, I \o 1 , :. ; t!'t 'i'f '' )'I I d \1\: ·I: I' !o\ - ,!r. l Lt ! 1: :.t I~' : t ',\ ' ',, 1::11...: •·,, 1 1 ' 1'1'- ,j, 111 ji,,, I,, \\ \I t: ... I\ !.:t ... ),,., !\ . \ : II: I. 1 ~ I •\ 11 ' ~ I I 1 I l : I I· . I' t!J\ •·!tJ...: :n + 1 ·.t final Exam Scheda~e ~illlHl'H'r 't\•i'Ul, l!l..f~ • .\II •·x:tmtn :ll•·lb 1\lll IH' ln·hl tn tiH· ClH'Illl:··t'l ~ J. xt·tHl t· Htn~lll I :H.onda~, .\.u~u~.t ~1 \l .\ '> p :\I Ttw ... da~. \1 .\ :\1 ·> I J ~I. En..:-~~:~ 1 1 Fll'~:llut·n) S•a·<al Stud«•s 37 Ekri~t·nt;-; 11r E t•.·tltl'al r:n:..:llll't'lllh!, }l}J~ ~It'~ 3 ,\111,\ll ... t ·~.i ~~~.·ta 1 ~t ud1t·~ 3.~, FtPnl'l: :.!t1h ( 11'1 lllilll \\'Pthu·-.tla~, ,\u~; u't ·w !I ~\ :\1 ~{u·tal Studtt·~ 11 ~ p :\1 ~l:!tlll'll:atll'=-' :.! t indud- 111!...! Ftt':\'hnlt'll' :\!at h··n::~tws 11 ?\lalllt'a:a!'lt'~ :.!1 Thttr~t 1 a~ .. ~HII.\U~t :!7 \1 .\ :\L Enc:lt-11 1:!~ P~\ t·ilolt•~\ St<;'t:d :'lt;di<'S l:! Spant,lt 1 :! I' :\1 Fri<l:t~. ,\ ug u~t :!H ~) .\ :\1 ~llt'l:ll :-:;t \lll·lt'=--' 1 t Fl t•:--h. I :-\n.·t:tl Slud<t·~ 17 ., I' :\1 l'l!t'IJ:f'1 < ~ 11 l'ht·llU:--tl~ 1~ ..;a.tunla~, .\u~ tt-.t '~!l ~· .\ ::0.1 En..:lt,h Jn ~ll. tal St \l!!tt·-. 1 11 , 1 '.,nr..,,,, ,, 11 n111 !'a..:•· :l1 i\ I:~.; : ,. \ f;: ·•!.]1·1 ( l!lt 11 ,,\, .t;-.. and i In·n \\ d:t bad'\ to ht>d .tJ !11! t,!~t· 1 t·~t p'f tJH• lllOllllt1~ \' ••.. I. . .j, •I ,. ·--,1; :- ,, : ~ '''I ' ' I fl·,,, '',\•• ' I ~ ' ~ 1 •.. II' 1 I i ~~ ' , I! I' - '.:- J\1 ,\ i•tll It· ...:. !11 t',ttl\ ,,. II\ I .d :t I Jl ':- \\I : lit'! l'iJt· It ~· .\ . '';_t· I l~d \ ( •II t'\ 1'1 I llll ~ nuh·~ on an i'lllJd; ~ltllll:lt'it :tt· 7 l;)·.J \Yttt.nt·t pi•·l,,·d u:-- lift un tht· t'tt :tn '· tlll 111:-:. \latt· · da~ H:t.l \\a~ Tl:•· ~ ·: i••ll 1 'l· q·~· ..... PLt r:~·t·, Kap 1 ·:.t .. j :...:•''' 1111111 n• ~~~~~n:--l•:'<i l\\...:J.tT!l:-- :dJd f::t\' 1 11 ., •. ],\t!: ·~u~t•·t· , 11 ~, :td- v-:a~ to lH•at t.ht• :..:~Ill pl'll:.!l<tlll i:-: to lll);-:~ lltlllllll;..; Pl ~allll':--' ~l.Hd t:d\.t' :2 tll:tl\t•!lp:-- ttl :--tJttltall. That::.. \\·h~ '\' lt·ilP\\:-. :--hu\\'t•d up lui an 11 ~tl :--t·\·t·I al \\ pt·k~ a~u. l)I.·~ \Jot'\ I >t~t~ :111d ~\ l\·l'~tl·t ha\'l' bl'Pll pia:..· il1L! :t lot oi lt·nnl~ With thP <\olon- i~t:-: It dut·~n·t al\\'a)~ pa~ to ,,f :u; n:!·•'I:J:.ttl\1 J>:t''UJt· ~~.t t!:• \ 1 .. , 1 ••! ;·~. ... ··.dt:J.~t~ 1J 1 ]~ • .t t· 1 , Football 1 CunttnUPd ftlliH Pae,P 31 and U:\ '\plwnwrrs atHI, rn•shrnPn I ,,, htl h~i\'t' ) t•l to gt·t a ta.stt• of tht', inanr! nf ball play<•<! in vat~ity com-, pt't'.tl!Jll. Ft·anl~ J Olll'S, a ~l'Ilior ur Bob :\ll•I~dl'}SOll, H ~OJlhOillOI t', is l'X}H'('t- i <'d t.o fill th\ gap lt>ft by Dub Bak<'r. i !: • .- t yt•:u ·, <'l'lllt·•t and captain. Hoil i H:<!tlt•lt, a ~uphunH>l't'. is l'XpPCtPd i' to llt• llllt• of thP bl'~t ba('k:::i to \\'Pal' t!Jt· tianwt Llll<fut m in tlw last fpw I yt·:u·.-. w'hoilt• Hl'g1\i•• Canol!. a soph- lllllt>l ,. hack. and Hal Fox. a t.a<'k},•,' ~ huuld abu mt·a~ut t' up ptt•tty Wt•l!. !\:at! Klatrnan. l'P'<·t·v,. quai 1<'1 back. \\·ith thP PXJ.Wl'iPllt'P gai·nt>d la:-it fn l. i and Ed lil'Pt•n, a :-it 1 nior ntav alsu 1 :--t•t• plt•nty t)f aet.iun. ' ~ · Anlollg t ht .. · t• whu 1 Pl't•ivt•d in vi- 1 tat ions are· Clatk Albt•tts, P!t•a,antvilk. l'nnn : :lliekt•y And!' I son, Bust on; Pnb Batt IPt!. Ogdt•n~btug; Ed Ba! <'s. !'itt ,fit•ld; Cil't'Hld Ruyel'. ;-;l\''·ulatut; RPg Cat! ull, \\'httdmll; GEN1ERAL Summer Concerts llun Cat st t•ns. BaIt inwn·; Tom t.Contint!Pd ft om Pag<· II 4 ,JOHX D!t:OLEY Flynn, Whitt• P!atns; Juhn FuiCI. AI- 1\'. DuPI. \Tiw Enehant.nwnt of ll'lny: Hal Fux. ;;('}wnt•ctady; At 1 Huffman\ fl om Th .. Ta!P,; tl'a<IP up Pill i1 Ply of a it·' by Cit I ht·lt i•inH>IP. Hl'tHt};J:o.n; Ed lii'Pl'll, Bnar- of Hoffman , , . Off•·nbal'll , nd Su!livan •·ltff :\Ia Pet·: I.::d ilan·••y. \\·ind~ur. \'. DUPI: \Nonr Shall Pat t t•,_.. :\It~' En~t\ i' ,\utt•t i<'a,n-lun n awl l'n!lll; Hill H<ll. Fulton: \\.alt Hu- ftt>m l<>lantiH•., ftum •·ally •·hildh\\\ ha, a<'<'<·pt,..J •·hult. l'htcago: Hank Hnchull. (~ilbP!I :md Su!lival! , family t 1 adttiun tl<:<t -ht• lwt·\IIH' l!loum!i .. td. ;:-,, J.: Dtek Hoffman. :\!i><~ F:ustis and !\It·. DudiP\\ .< <'<>ll<'t•lt attt-L Sht· -tudi<·d at th•· Haltlll!Oit'; Ftank JonP~. SchPnt><'- \''!. I cannot tell, ft·um 'l'atil'n~·••\ .lull tat d Sch11ul Ul =\•·w Yntl< and .tl 1 :uly: Hat·vt•y Kaytw, <iluv\\vill•·: \VhPn a :\1t•:rv :\Ia idPn :\Ia!- ( 'ut tis Ins! itut.<· in l'htlad••lp!:ia Sh•· Eat I Klannan. Sehpm•ctat!y: Bo'J 1 iPs. from \Tht• Ciondolit·ts'· :s at l'''\~\nt ptnhahly lwst known Lang. \\'hitt• Platns: Hob LaPann. \VPn• I Thy Bt·idP, from \Ypo- fttt h.-! wo:l< at H:tdill l'lty·, :\Ju,;ic· ( ilt·ns Fall:-;; Art Ll~Hoy, Long Is~ nH'n of thP Gua1 d\ Hall. ~ht• ha~ sung with t}u lt·a.ding land: Clwt .\!arvin. Boston: GIP~~ Tuwet· Song. from \'YoPmt'n , -yrnpt•ony ott'lll'slt'~' tlnttug!H>Ltt .\J .. nd<'lson. Ho~ton; Dick Pt•a,;t·, I · S('il<'ll<'<'tady: l'liff Platt, Ll·nbrook.l of the Guard\ . th .. <'olll\11'1' ant! O\\t•t thP 1 adt<>. I ~ ;\.lis!\ Eusti-s 1 Juhn I J~Hlh·~ t'Ullll'=-' f1 orn .t\ u~- •. L; !Jon t,1uig-1Py. CoxsackiP: Dick 'I \' 1 I 1 A V\'andel'ing .\lin~trPI I. . It alta H\ has ,ung with th<· :\!•··Itt ... l~ayBH.md. Eas_t A til:\' a; Dtck Hob- . I~ Lifp a Boon, flom \Yot•· I fHJiitnn 'in<·•· HHII, In ht~ initial .-.·a sky, \\hi I<' Pial n,: J{pn :;;hall'\· !'as- from \The :\likado\ son t Itt' I,.. h•· mad<• mon• a.ppPal- ad,•tJa, <'alif, John Short, l{ingston; I n1Pn of the (iu~u·d\ I atH't-s than any uthPI llt>\\.'l'Olll<'l l'lltl Siskind. :::\'t<w Ho<'lwiiP· :\lnx \\'ould You Know thl' Kind of Pnot to that. :IlL Dutl!t·y sang Ill ;-;J< .... Puu.:hko•t•psit•: Ed Smtih. Ilion; :-ilia, Stt•lllhart. OIPan; Hud Ta.ylor. 1 . :\laid. from .. Huudtgo!P... 1 Austt aha and 111 London. In 1\137. St·h<'nt•ctady, and Bt·ook<' Tundall. Takt• a !'au of Spatklin1\ , ht· jolll<'d tht· D'Oyly l'allt• Upt''\ Raltimot r, Eyt<s, from .. ThP GondoliPrs .. 1 Cu. as thP lt•ading ly! ie tt•twt. In 1 :\IL Dudlt•y 1 ;\;.,w Yotk ht· won Ulllllt'd<alt· :>UC' In addition 3fi <>I 4ll frPshm .. n will I \.III. · Dut'l. 1{1'11 am, Auda<'wus 1 . \·\\\ am! aft<·t ht' ,,H·•·•·~~ful op<·J>t 1 ''JlOit. Ta1. ftutll '·Pinafore\ nud pt>l:o'unal apJwat:tl1l'l'!\ ht• 1:-. no\\ 0 I .\l!s,; Eustis and .\lr. Du<I!Py un hb fu-t l'Xt<·ndt•d •·on<'<' It tout Former Teacher Here '-==~='=Jt=e=::.::.:.T_h_e_I_a_s_t_th_l'(_·p_g_'_I'O_ll_P·_\_\_,\' i, of till' l'nitPd Stat!'~, Gets New Appointment r I , :!.ldtt·J ,tf· t f.,. J•11J·ll :11 You ('an't 1 ,, 1 • Jlo Bu-.iru· ... .., \\Jth llit'lttt• J•l , .... ,.nt·;, ~-,,. 1 1 : il'at thi<Ill~h c.ah~thl·nH·~. fnt· ~onlP· The Ptl_,~ident's Offil'P announ<'Pd Interested in Schenectady PHONE 4-5614 tJ··n 11f l:t:--t· ~· :tl (ltlt' that \,:,_ .. 1 ~ •I I. ll i 'I ..... 111. ·I ' ; Ill J! . - t· l; I .... : l I II [I:' I' \ .• 1''\-''\\ t• ''\\\~ 1 '··· '\' 1 \' C~Tu RAf Units Here fl:ll~ll ,,f •]-:, \:JI.l·t\1:-- J.tt'i! .\IJ:t•l, ttm<·'' tt t·ost., a qttat'tPI an!llnd last month that Dr. J. Georg\ Lutz,· 'Alt•x:<nd•·t F~t·ltL \\·,.·~ .. all w:uttng who sprved as Instructot· in Chem- lut A: Ctanq>a and '\'.t l:awll•nc•· I i\llY a~ L'\niun durm~ tiH' yPa!s 1.935 ttJ 11111 with tht> :..;~nl dd~~l:-.. · · · to 193~, and who stnct) that tinlL'. has been ProfP><sur of Clwmistrv in 1 Interested in UN ION MAURICE B. GRAUBART Everything Electrical 1 · , r 1 r~ , • 1 1 , : : ... (ln·· •• r t: ... 1 _111JHl::•l 1 t~,,..:t:tn::-: .. r J:t ~ ~ ~· • :I I t }t; t. '\ I:: l Jt' 1,! t •11:.:.!. t },; I I' k Ill TL1 f·t'l tot; 't J 1! ~t·l ~(',\'~·· ~ '}.• •. 111/ I•'' I_J.I!ll T!.J..:. , ... t'l.t• jllll-:1 tlll t!i t1 :.·:dnl ,_ d ,, t•.t~·t I• • •t .·. t1':._ .tnd l\t1ttWI• d_,. }ll't\\., •ll \at 11111 ... lllt'tll lwt\\ \1 •h1 l:t.t lll~~ :n1d \f tht· ~111 dl'lli bt ·d~ {)f:;,-,.! ... td. ~t .. t!i11n T'Cl!~ :tit· l':1ul y,: ..:11~ !Ht ... ,.,, nt. llo~tlll'l \\'i~ J•! ,,_., .• :n d.!• t'l\! :\'l.tr \'iL EJ• -..t. lll ll.j:--l 1~1 ........... :t •. tJ,,·j ;.:.• : •• n•! FI :tl l\ t ·;. ,·J. t' t'!.ntt·:tl d11 t c·~~~~ Student Council • lllllll d ~•·Y•·1 :t I .1:\- \\I :1 ht·l - t •t -~ I c ' IIJ' t•• hr•·:_tk •· \'•·n t1nann:d:~ t:tc 11lt·:'- c ,,u;dt·~ :tt ····nrl•· •l :t :-- oL f,' 1; 1.lw f I •t 1' J It· Ill I II~· f'\ ,,. t 't\ l•ll.ttl } 1 ,lut Tl.tll1lt1- •j'l:.tl 1 1 !1 •1 f•tl •· f, t • -11111 I I~ t' I 1111 t ·;t.Jll J •:I~ n...: 1 !1• 1 , ~·,.ill....; 'I\l1•·\ <tit' to~h· •rt:.... r 1:. _ ! 'r t : . , : lillt:....: , ·· ~ It• · . ' ~ {.' ·11!; ~· .\ • \II I It I! t Tt:t· Jtt•(' 1 t•d Jtlt ..;, •:t r·I'T -''\'•1• 011•· ~~ :tlld Htc~:·ud r'J )T c·ttlll ...,,. 1~ ,.,_ 1!. ·.,lt•n ·I,. i·!·~•llt _:'!\11i \\1.: rtJI\·,. : ·n t\ otl··1 :-.':ltJ~tll...; :'\Ill•· \\1~1 !~n •·! 'h•- ~~·-~ .\:! ,~,.,t,~ •·t·!.,.! ... !•t• .\,,, ... \11 <'\'I'' w':!lt· ~ttl! I .. !!:;·•...; \Ylli l t-1.!11 11 lit II' fill St l'- 1 11'1h:\- tl' 1 ':.n..: .\ 11•\\ :nu: I:-' ··x- i\' 11 'd 11 1 •·1 ~t·folt'J)I!tt'J } ·J . .\1 {'(t}J- dit'Jo •11 \'.:.It \1 \\ill Jd t •lt;thl;-, ('llfll!.Ji ··tt•· :•HI!J.IIl_ :tll:tn:.:•·fl!t·l.t.s ill tht• .!11J llJJ·•oJ It·~ . ...:.tlldt·nt~· ln·~ll- in t:u· .j .. , :t: .... j];:l~ ]J,. Ot .. J\.1 d til. dt~t!ll:t· llll. ! 1;1 '\ • \ t- .'! l ;ll'('t lf •fill,.: t t I I'll! It'll t It'- ~ ;• IJ ,...,· \\·'.Jl• I' Ul:i\ }.,. llt·t't·:--:~:ny . '\' tf ,. H:t·!·· il\''\'l' IJJ.tJI't_:t·nJ,·Ht ! t·ll ... , : '1-' 1lil' '\ 1-'11111...: iiJt•:t::-: rlt :-.t Tlw ~al:lt\t..::l t'lat'k o}letlf'<l it:::: 311-da\ nu·L·ttn:..: wtt.h n1any JH'\ph· ltt~llJ,t!\· •·:q>1t:tl dt,;ttwt. X<·w Yorl< Ctt\. and l'ntun Colh•:.!t' in a.ttttnd- :tll<:,. ,\ c: ttl It orn n u,;,;,·ll Sage last :'a.tut d:n <'<•lh•t'tl'd 111 alnwst P\'Pl'\ ' ta~·t·. /\n allvant't' :-<tot'\' on th~· l \Jl\n 1nc: :-atd that !ut ,;11,. month I llliW tJH· t!l\\ ll \VOU}d he }!VPly ... Wt·ll All of whit' I! 1 <'llltnd,; ll' I that llll·k Ct11li~· \Viii nut 1t1n \Vith Uw x·,·<>ul:ll:O. l<':illl tlus fall ,int\<' i ho• t« ttaintnc: fo1 tlw mar:~thon1 IUil tu ~a.tatuL:.a ThP bus fan•, H 1 ~ tlll at\ tntt·rt>~tt>d. has hPPn n~- ~ dlll't'd f t nill 'i'Ot• to .-}3t•. ~Pl' ~ ou ~oon.! r-~~-;~~~-~~~-~;~~~;-1· I I 448 State Street l i ! -Our Service is Ideal l .\lt·Jptu! .... \I i:,, ... lllltlllt·, ;-.C'II''\~ \\ho \\'t-11 ,.:,ctt·d !t> ,};,- l'lllltH',\ :t.t i:••:t: Ill f'\\- 11 \-..L!t:--- I I I I. tkt• (';\] f' (Jf : -Just Try One Haircut l I I .\~:---t tllh:, .. ; J11il1' 1.\'•. \\t•:t· I~·tlt· I~~~·· .Hid· d t'if.t'l'\ ~-----------------~----' ql 't:l. <'.lllJ\\:;..:!ll \\.·dh•' .tnd I:t~lii'Jt I ;JI:JP; ~n·l T.t\ 1••1 Th• ~·· ~1\' t-:··11 I L lit·pJ_'I' :\1 ddl••JJ,; .. :-', Cllllt. :t,Jl<i .\1 !II 1l:•l \·.11 :--:u I 1.·1 II It·' ) 1 :-- l 1 r • ! t : • II 1 ~ · l ~ t t • ! H:1\ nt·l :t1td .\ Jl II' I 1 f ~I 11 _I :d I I 1 fltlllt.!ll~l··ll 't :• -:u:a1 :,,, t ,\I' I tl .,, I: I I \\ t·] I .'+lllld• r;t In ( ]11\\t ~t t II ttl..: ,.;t f'ff•(l (·o\!llC'Il Schenectady lfs for ------- -------·-- Anythinq you need? Call GUEIUlA~S PHARMACY \WE DELIVER\ 600 Union St. Simply Phone 6-9419 :·;:::::::::::::::::::: .. ·:::=======·======:====·=====:===:==:::::================;===================mm====================m::=:=m The Dining Hall for Union Men ill With the Finest Food and ::: j 1111 :::1 Cheerful Service ·I :: H~ Shirts I HALE HOUSE ill ;; ;; ;; ;; \\;;;;;;;;\ ;;;; ;; \;; \\\ m; \'\' mm,;;;; m;; ;;; \m \'\' ;,;;; m m \''\'\' ;;;;; \'\'\'\\ '\; \\' \\'\\ mmmmmmJ~ I IIH• Albany College of Pharm.acv,! has transfetH~d tu Hufstra Co!lt·g·e. · Hempstead, Long Island, when• hP · i~ now the Chait·man of lhl' Chem- i>'tty DPpartmPnt BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS The Jay Street Jeweler 166 Jay Street Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER AND SCHAFFER PENS JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Schenectady If\\\\\\\ ,,,,,.,,iii m !!! ~ ~ ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: m our ::: scrvKc, good food, good liquor, and iii good service to Union. .. -. .. lli Van Curler !lj m Tap Room ·-- -- ------------ VoL LXVI. Clas Groz TentCJti Regisfr, t:or Co1 St·Vl'n-ltu: '''..!I~tt·l t·d I L!t'!\'t' 1 t'jJ'l p<tl>ltcattun ~t·!l}CIJ ~- I: liltJJt·~. arH tu:tkt>s tilt· t•:\t t•!ltPilll t :1.t'I\'t' 111fo :-'t·tl!PI :-; a I'• .n lJ•·~·,·nJ.IJt ('l:t.:--~t·.-- 1\- F.:..!tllt·~ c !\-<thO\V I il:lt lllt'lll<iltl.:. ;-, S1t!JI!tJtn< ,Jj·~ l•·'lt'ti 111 .JJ t~t'llt ~ T\\ c :HTt'lt•J'I\t•d .\lt·!Jd)t'J ~ :·t.l {' :t~ hdl '!'lltli\.l I. I\ I!fliH·Jt .-\tltt !l':--, ! lt 1; ,\I ill ic· Ill .J ~:·lltt (, H:tl;o 1 l :· 1) •!' ]!•! .\ n;t.t· ........ I.t-·\·, l !t·h~tn C 1 if .t\ Hit-kt·l\ l:ttbt•l t E. Fkt<·bt·t } L:tlliO~ Ill' }~i<lllo. st .. , L J:lltt·lli. ,\lllllllll:'-\ I' Ed\\inC' I i<'t:<llli .I han1. F1 t•dt• F J;i<><•li-. 1 llll I~ l!tH' ::O.It• il:od .\ 1 :ll :t, 1'1 I'd I Palll•'k C:tt t 111111. .-\ \' <'< .IL: :. II, tltun:o. F I Cut llPII. \' ('i:-: Cttda.. \\' on~t t'l Cu:-::ann J), ,) Pa v•·t 11. ,\, CJ. I l:~ v <•hri~topht• lll'lll[l'l ,., . r. .... 1-1' [ Huh<·tt .J < ;t'l aid I~ Et: !~·. .\ m: En:\'tl<'.t' Cit II:< I old I .It .. L St< FPIL!Pllh:t.lll ,Jo:-;t•pll E. .lt>llll .L l't 1'. \' ··li·· k .Ja.mt·~ :\: .1 Eltt« r;, .\n[.!t•ln G:1 nwll. I•:dl\ H ( ~O!td. ' ( il'Ol gt• ~ .L ];t>l ( iiii!-=:·;Jll;Ul, ('hatlt·' J, I t'Z ,\lit• Ha:·l\<'11. I Ptt D. H:u !I:JIIY P <iPll. Jtohl' E. Ht·rnpt< \\'il!iam .I lllHll. l\1 t K Ht:l, .1< Howat<! tna n, .J a 1111 llolo~ka. liam E. ll I'll, L:JWI E Hupma \\.illtam .Jan lull\;;]; A. ~John~o thu: A . .J llunai<l K< ]<;, Ktt~:4<'l Frank L:JJlgP, ( }p Lnt in~. J{, C. L.-... .!1 LPnaltan. E. Ll'~~ot·. Ft ani< lit LPWi~. C! ,\ Lit }It'. hPJt R L qui~t. K Chatl\' F c ;, CIHi :\l:.lwr. Cl H. :\!a1,;h :\L ::O.Iartt tht•\\~. ,\ Stttatl :\1 Donald. ·• 1-:t!\ :u c :<.1<' :\I• tC<

