re re by he he vy of a ad LILTING LULLABYS LULL LAGGING LOVERS THE GARNET IS OUT!! AMAZING!! The Sfudent Newspaper and Wa,rtime Log of Union College Vol. LXVHI. No. 28 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1944 Price 18c lerriffic; Teagarden's Tantalizing Trombone Nineteen Men Graduate at 154th Commencement Prexy Announces Transfer Orders Grraduation lists Received for 89, For October 22.nd ·Some Get 40 Days • MAESTRO FOR GRIDIRON BALL Jitterbugs Jump to Jackson Jive, Gymnasium Gay with Gridiron Green Twenty-one students will receive degrees at the commencement ex- ercises on Sunday, October 21 at 3 P. M., in the Memorial Chapel. Charles E. Wilson, president of G.E. is the main speaker. The ex- ercises will be presided over by Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox. Members of the Board of Trustees and the Faculty are schcdu•led to march in the academic procession which will open the ceremony. The musical program is under the directien of Dr. Tidmarsh. These exercises are open to the public and tickets may be obtained at the Dean's Office. Myron Robert Buchdahl, candi- date for a B.S. degree; entered Union in May, 1942; a graduate of Mechanicville High, Mechanicville. John Louis Bourquin. candidate for a B.S. in E.E. degree; entered Union in Sept. 1941; a graduate of Litchfield High, Litchfield, Conn. A/S James Walter Coapman, candidate for a degree of B.S. ln Physics; entered Union in Sept. 1941 and was transferred to V-12 Unit July 1, 1943; a graduate of Brighton High, Rochester, N. Y. A/S Peter John Firra, candidate for B.S. in E.E. degree; entered Union Sept. 1, 1941, and was trans- ferred to V-12 Unit July 1, 1943; a graduate of Herkimer High, Herki- mer, N.Y. A/S Thomas Ripton Hoffman, candidate for B.S. in E.E. degree; entered Union Sept. 1941 and was transferred to V-12 Unit July 1, 1943; a graduate of White Plains High, White Plains, N. Y. Malcolm Dudley Horton, candi- date for B.S. in E.E. degree; en- tered Union in Sept. 1941; a gradu- ate of Gloversville High, Glovers- ville. John Glenn Humphrey, candidate for a degree of B.S. in E.E.; entered Union in Sept. 1942 as a sophomore; a gradt:ate of Utica Free Academy. warren oscar KamTII, candidate for a degree of B.S. in Chemistry in absentia; entered Union in Sept. 1941; graduate of Monroe High in Rochester, N.Y.; was inducted into the armed forces in Sept. 1944. A/S Robert Frank Lange, candi- date for a degree of B.S. in E.E.; entered Union In Sept. 1941; was transferred to V-12 Unit July 1, 1943; a graduate of White Plains High, White Plains, N. Y. William Lamont Lasser, candi- date for a B.A. degree <Major in Economics); entered Union in Sept. 1941; graduate of Johnson City High, Johnson City, N. Y. Riebard Fred Leftwieh, candidate for a degree of B.S. in Physics; entered Union in Sept. 1941; a graduate of White Plains High, White Plains, N. Y. John Mann, candidate for a de- gree of B.S. in E.E.; entered Union in Sept. 1941; a graduate of Hemp- stead High, Hempstead, L. I. Robert James O'Hara, candidate for a degree of B.S. in Chemist1·y; entered Union in Sept. 1941; a graduate of Heatley High, Green Island, N. Y. A/S Clayton Harold Olney, candi- date for a degree of B.S. in E.E.; entered Union from Clarkson as V-12 July 1, 1943; a graduate of Macedon High, Macedon, N. Y. A/S Alden Opie, candid.ate for a degree of B.S. in E.E.; entered Un- ion in Sept. 1941; transferred to V-12 Unit July 1, 1943; graduate of Binghamton Central High, Bing- hamton, N. Y. Lt. F. B. Andreen released the fol'lowing .orders .for transfer of V-12: trainees to other schools for Mid- shipman and Pre-Midshipman train_ ing yesterday. 'l'he following trai- nees must report not later than 1400, 9 October, to Yeoman Rosine the hour and day of their last ex- amination so that orders can be drawn for them to be detached ap- proximately four hours after such examination. The following men are being transferred to Midshipmen's School at Columbia University in New York City: Coapman. James W.; Firra, Peter J.; Hoffman. Thomas R.; Opie, Alden; Ricciardone. Joseph A.; Swift. Stanley B.; Tren- ner. Jack F.; These men must re- port on or before November 6 The following men must report on or before 6 November to the Naval Traning School in Fort Schuyler, The Bronx, New York for Midshipman training: Boroweic, Mitchell J.; Boyle, Paul A.; Burns. Dan M.; Cerro, Armente, J.; Christophersen, E. A.; De Baum, V. C.; Goggin, C. A.; Hayes, J. J. Jr.; Jaeggli, R. G.; Kouns, W. S.; Matthews, C. T.; McGrath, J. B.; Mciver, K. N.; Mitchell, C. F.; Mul- len, E. F. Jr.; Nielsen, E. W.; Peters, F. J.; Rifkin, B.; Schiavo, J. S.; Stegemann, R. H. On the way to Notre Dame U. in Indiana, reaching there on or be- fore 6 November, 1944, are these men, who are slated for U.S.N.R. Midshipman's School: B0lmer, S. T.; Crone, T. F.; Dean, K. B.; Lieb, L. J.; Loughborough, R. H.; Mannis, G. D.; Morris, J. T.; Sise, R. J.; Tilley, M. E. Jr. These men are to report to U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Ab- bot Hall, Northwestern Univ., in Chicago, Ill.: Callanan, C. R.; Clum, D. P.; Fash, D. G.; Foster, R. A.; Lynch, T. S.; Mikkelsen, H. A.; Schmertz, E. J.; Spencer, 0. R.; Werner, D. S. Rubenstien, M., is ordered to report to the Officer in Charge, Naval Training Center, for Naval Supply Operational training Lido Beach Long Island N. Y. by No- vember 1st, 1944. The following three men are be- ing sent Camp Macdonough, Platts- burg, to report on or before 6 November 1944 for temporary duty nuder instruction. These AS, will ge transferred to Cornell\ Univ., to repor ton 8 December 1944: Bow_ ser, R. A.; Cardamone. R. J.; Saw- vel, G. C. This last group of men are as- signed to U.S.N.R. Pre-Midship- men's School at Asbury Park, N. J. for temporary duty under instruc- tion, pending orders to a Reserve Midshipmen's School: Beebe, W. C.; Bergman, D. H.; Bingenhiemer, G. E.; Blakeley, R. A.; Brooks, R. A.; Brubaker, R. L.; Campbell, D. L.; Cohen, N. J; Connors, W T.; Da- kin, W.; De Brotzke, R. S.; Doyle, J. G. Jr.; Easton, C. W.; Eddy, W. R.; Fritze. J N.; F.uchs, T. J.; Furlong, R. G.; Graham, R. W.; Gregg, P. C.; Haas, G. W. Jr.; Hanley, R. A.; Harper, W. F.; Helm, A. H.; Hollander, S. I.; Keane, R. B.; Kahn, T. F.; Kriesman, N.; Lange, R. R.; MacKenzie, F. T.; Matland, H.; McFate, C J.; Mealy, D. F.; Mitchell, F. H., Jr.; Moore, Vincelllt Joseph Picozzl, candidate for the degree of B.S. in E.E.; en- tered Union in Sept. 1941; gradu- ate of Richmond Hill High, Rich- mond Hill, N. Y. A/S Lyman Gillette Potter, candi- date for a B.A. degree (pre-Theol- (Continued on Page 2) E. J. Jr., Olney, C H.; Sherman, R. M.; Shettler, W. R.; Sottile, V. M.; Spezzano, P.; Stroux, R. W.; Szczutkowski, F.; Umland, W. N. 0 Greeting Gates, we're proud to ·1 • t N y k relate-the Ball is under way, Old np 0 . ew or Union's here with girls and cheers and BOY! does the gym look swell. Very Successf.u· ·I The Gridiron Ball has been under- way now for two solid hours of UCRS 8 d solid fun and solid music. Mr. . ' roa casts Jackson is at his best tonight and the floor is shaking to his torrid trombone. WGFM has already sent The Union College Radio Society last Saturday provided an unusual service to those among the student body who were unable to attend the Union-Columbia football game at Baker Field. The broadcast from New York was the first of its kind attempted .by the Society, and was a complete success. as reported by listeners here on the campus. Since in normal times, most of the stu- . dent are able to attend such games, this type of service has never be- fore been necessary. Members of the staff attending the game were Ed Schiffmacher, President; Ed Nielsen, Chief An- nouncer; Wes Vivian, Technical Manager; Morris Canter, Announc- er; Walt Davis, Technical staff; and Dan Scaccia, Business Mana- ger. Bob Sise of the Concot·dy staff lent a helping hand ·by announc- ing a portion of the contest. out the moaning blues of the most famous blues orchestra in the coun- try. In a little while WGY will be broadcasting some more of the rhythmical rhapsodies. This is the first time on record that two dif- ferent stations have carried broad- casts of a Union formal in the same evening. Theme Is Football The football theme her·e tonight reflects the spirit and fight that Union's garnet-clad warriors dis- played on Alexander Field this aft- ernoon. It was a great game, hard- fo~ght all the way through, and were glad we didn't miss it. Red Sashes in the S1llll!et Jack Teagarden Expenses for the broadcast we1·e met by sponsorship by a number of local concerns. Through the ef- forts of Dan Scaccia, and with the cooperation of Bill South, the fol- lowing concet·ns were contacted and contributed to the Society to covet the costs: Serv-ice Linen Sup- ply Co., Caruso. Battagla, and Ri- nella C0., Inc .• Schenectady Import- ing Co., Wm. Green Dairy, Amster- dam Dairy, Pleasant Valley Meat Market, McKain and Co., General Ice Cream Corp, Fairmont Dairy, and the Bond Ba·king Co. The Gridiron Ball Committee is here in full str·ength tonight. Dave C?hen, the chairman, is sporting hts red sash across his manly chest as are John Mann, Bob Bush and John Bourquin. The Nayy men, Oscar Tl:cker, John Frelick, Walt Goad and Norm Kreisman can be spotted from a mile off on account of their swelling bosoms. They've really done a fine job and we're glad to see things running off as well as they are. Lt. Brubaker Receives Orders Replaced by Lt. George ·Hall Lt. Cmwford F. Brubaker, Execu- tive Officer of the Navy V-12 Unit at Union College since June 1, 1943, has 1·eceived orders to report to Pocatello, Idaho, where he will be commanding officer of the Navy V-12 Unit at the University of Idaho (Southern Branch). He will also be commanding officer of the V-12 Unit at the University of Utah School of Medicine in Salt Lake City. Lieutenant and Mrs>. Brubaker have been living on the Union Col- lege Campus with their children. Phyllis. who is a seniot· at Nott Terrace High School, and Arion Robert, who is in the sixth gmde. They also have a son, Crawford, Jr .. who is in Midshipman's School at Northwestern University in Chi- The former \Exec\ was the first officer to assume duties at this sta- tion in June, 1943. Sitting in the executive office, he always was ready and willing to offer help and <Contint:ed on Page 8) On Wednesday of this past week Lt. George C. Hall reported to the V-12 Unit here for duty as Execu- tive Officer. Lieutenant Hall comes to Union from the V-12 Unit at Mt. St. Mary's College, Emmitsburg, Maryland. Lieutenant Hall makes his home in Bluefield, W. Va .. where he re- ceived his primary schooling. Mr. Hall attended Virginia Polytechnic Institute fmm which he graduated in 1939, majoring in chemistry. Aft- et· graduation he worked as a chemist at the Norfolk Navy Yard. His work there consisted of making analysis of oils, paints, and prod- ucts so essential to the war effort. The new Executive Officer en- listed in the Navy as an Ensign in April 1942, and was sent to the Univer~ity of N.otre Dame fat· in- doctrinalion. Upon completion of the necessary indoctrination course, he was assigned to the Naval Training Station, Electrical, More- (Contim:ed on Page 8) The broadcast was sent from the Radio Hooth atop the west side of Baker Field, over leased telephone lines direct to the UCRS studios in Psi Upsilon basement. On the job at the studios were Boyd Howe. \Rocky\ Howard, Elihu Cohen, and Bo·b Brooks. Loud speakers were set up in Hale House Lounge and the Civilian dining room in addition to the one in the Navy <Contim:ed on Page 8> -~---o--- Emily Post Gives Do's And Don't's For Worried Girls By Emily Post Is Everybody Happy? -Some two hundred and fifty cou- ples have been dancing to the music of the great band we have here tonight. Even Dr. Bennett and Prexy seem to be enjoying themselves. The V-12 Skipper. Lt. Andreen, at last reports, was seen to be having a wonderful time. Many of the faculty members are here with their wives and sweet- hearts and all told the atmosphere is one of gaiety and forgetfulness. Band Really on the Ball Doubtless some of you girls have had the hard luck to have your date swoon when charming Phylis Lane gave forth with some smooth vocalizing. She's really been a hit here tonight-Union should see more of things like her. Harry ~torum, one of the country's lead- l';lg young drummers, has been put- ting on a fine show as have all the rest of M1·. \T's\ blues crew Mr \T\ himself has been addin~ lot~ of. pleasure to the evening with his Wide-mouthed bass sounding forth the mournful plaint of the sad melodies. \To the mothers who are inclined to fear that it cannot be proper for their daughters to stay in fra- ternity houses, it should be ex- plained: Prom Week-end has been an accepted custom for generations in colleges and fraternities that have always upheld highest moral standards. And therefore it is en- tirely proper that a young girl Joke! Joke! Joke! go <if necessary quite alone) to a .one of the highlights of the eve- Prom week-end in each and every m?g so far was the poor V-12 who college where this festivity is a tripped over a line marlrer with time honored feature of social life.\ two bottles of coke in each hand \It is always tempting to the A V-~2-you know, that's an ap~ 'new' girl to take along every at- p~·ent1ce seaman trying to drown tractive item she owns or can buy, h1s troubles but can't get the Chief but she must not J.ose sight of the to go swimming with him. An- fact that she will have to share- other highlight of the dance is with one or maybe two other girls Betty's strapless gown-plus her -very little closet room and drawer dog tags. Of course it's the tags space cleared out for their use that attract the attention. by the boys, who can't very well . All in all, it's an evening of beau- move out everything they own! tlful women and smooth music, of A Few Warnings. \Don't forget a t?p-notch band and• a eolorful to dress mentally as you pack. settmg, of an A-1 Ball and an ei ht <Ed.-'-Some lilre to dress physically, page Concordy-\An Evening gTo too.) No one is less likely to be Be Remembered;\ But this is only pleasing than the girls who begin the J;alf,. and another half awaits to borrow or sends a boy on :re- our tmglmg feet so now we'll ut peated trips to the drugstore for away this typewriter and-comep (Continued on P.age 8) Chilluns, Le's dance!! on

2 illo11rnr oirnat.E Member Associated Col- legiate Pl·ess and distribu- tor of the Collegiate Di- gest. :-:arlonal Adverti\- 1ng Rt!pret'eututivl:': 1'-:u- tiona'l Ac.herti~1II'g Servu .. 't', Jnc., College Publishers He11rest>ntative, ·1:!:0 :'llalll- Ann .\vc., :-:. l. C. l'ub- Ushe<l ever;· Friday of the ~l'hool year. \A C.ms.~ .Per sa P.1role Assai\ F.Jditorie,l Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered in the Sehenec· tady Post Office as Sec· and Class Mail Matter, ;ubscription lOc a copy: $3 year: delivered anywhel'C in the United States. .\IA:'\AGIXG BO.\RD t'. F. \lit<·.hell, H. Fl'it•tlmann ...... :\urth l'ulleg·e, 31. S., D. L'., 2·0252, 2·1348 ......................... ('u·mlitOI'>· ua 1 itl 31. ('uht•u .. , ... llelta l'p•lluu Dorm-2·1318 .......•........••.••... :lluslne». :llunager Hobert J. Sl~o .......... , . . . . . . ............... 1'>1 L'psllon-6·037() .................................. Sports Editor Bu~lmt..,~ st.nf,f .\.11,,11d l:a:-kln, .\bbtJtt \\\l.'iu:--tt·ira Paul Hindh .. gla~. lblph llhlH', Hit·.hard .P:l'ih·r. lteporter' tUHI l:enttll'l' \l'rit.•r,-l'aul H·~yl~, c, . . \.. lJL!t·\\ lt•(·hi, Huh llaH1]•toH, L. ~\. {)'\ell~. h .. h .. K:hm, \\'. I! \\'uol>e~·. ~1. <:. \\'ilbut·, :\. Krc•i>ma,n, .\. \\', !'lambed<, Louis (;ill>U't, H. \\'. Thur\tnn. H. H. Bush. ~·. \\'. ~wat·.kel', \'. C. DeBaun, ,J. Einwhmau. H. F. \\'dl'J1, H. H. :-;nydcr,T. Kohu, 1 l. \\'. Haa:<, ll. :IL Lilldt'U.}'. r 0 s e b u d SATURDAY, OCTOBER. 7, i1944 Testimonial, Dinner ·For Sidney Sm1ith On Tuesday night, October thi·rd, I'm busier than a cat on a tin thought we were a bit too Nathty ·Mr. Sidney B. Smith was honored in past issues and I'm thorry I at a Testimonial Dinner held in the roof tonite trying to cover every- .·-- haven't wa·med them before now Hale House Dining Ro.om. Twenty- thing that is going on at thiswhing- not to go on. I'm awfully Thoi'ry, one guests were present to pay Mr. ding. All these gorgeous guys and honethly. · Smith the respects they felt were :·gals a1e enough to distmct anybody. Just as the Dutchmen said when due him. After a fine turkey dinner · And besides, my date hasn't shown they bought Manhattan for $24.00 prepared under the dil,ection of Mr. . . . \SUCH A DEAL\!! Looking Wililiam South, College Stewavd, up yet. She told me she would be around the floor, we see our sweet Dr. Manning A. Smith of the Cham- wearing a soft black dress · . · I little WAVE, Betty Wilcox, in all istry Department made a few im- wonder if it could be felt? Speak- her glory talring the old Gridiron promptu remarks which praised the ing of dates, Throckmorten told Ball in a storm of jive. And would' fine work and willing cooperation me confidentially he wasn't com- you !Gok at that strapless evening displayed by \Sid\ in his campus ing to the Prom because he couldn't gown she's wearing . . . dug tags activities. Dr. Smith stated that his find a dog that wanted to come. and aiL We've been vieing for a short acquantance with \Sid\ had U;================~=======================~ls~~ili~?T~~~ha~~cl=~~~&~inciv~~furb~~hl~~~ua~~d~ ·- Prom that 1 really feel sorry for a long time and now its happened. felt that the co11ege had sustained the fellows who aren't here tonite. Hey, there, Mac, u:s not polite to a great loss. Master-of%.Ceremonies FOOTBALL SEASON Some of them are strictly single-0 leave your date like that just be- Richard B. Tobin, Mr. Smith's sue- men though and I know how cause the grass is a little greener .cessor as pt'Dctor of Sigma Phi, they feel. After all, kissing a girl jus>t across the ~ence. punctuated the proceedings with Union's footba:H season officially ended to- day. It was one of the earliest and briefest seasons in the history of Union. It is only fitting now, that we glance over its brief life. Sad!~·. we find that the victories did not come forth as expected. And yet there is something- in the record of those games that is worthy of particular emphasis. That is the magnificent spil'it shown by our players. Never \vet·e they downhearted, never did they weaken, never did the,v give up-they wrre fighting to tht> last. Such a spirit is not often found-it beat·s recognition. To the last moments of each g·ame, the team was battling on the field-one g~une was almost won with- in the last ten seconds. :\Ianr l1eartbreaking contests were lost. On numerous occasions everyone ag1·eed that Union had the better team, but that luck just seemed to be against it. The fact that Union prove to be such a formidable oppon- ent in eve1·y game shm.,·s the effort of the men and the ability of the coaches. With only just because she lets you is like ---01--- . many appropriate remarks and in- negligible previous experience and with no scratching a place that doesn't itch. Graduatt·o·n Con't. , traduced Professor E. s. c. Smith For the benefiit of those who who remarked at his own personal Spring practice, Union yet put a real team on brought their own refreshments ogyl; entered Union in Sept. 1941 ; loss at the departure of \Sid\ and the field on September 9th. A team that tonite, Mad Manning Smith recom- transferred to V-12 Unit Jrly 1, aptly expressed the vieWs of \Sid's\ mends the following method of 1943; a graduate of Gilbert High, many .friends here at Union. After could fight. determining the potentiality of said Wins-tead, Conn. a presentation of a leather travel- Perhaps the most credit for this g-oes to refreshments. You merely secure A/S Stanley Barnard Swift, ing kit by the Master-of-Ceremonies an e lectrolysis set up using the on behalf of the guests present h l\1 l H ' It h h ld d cand1' da,te for a degree of B.S. in · · · · ' our coac · c l e em. was e w O we e brew as an electl··oylte. If, on ap- \S'd\ x d h' 1 tf lt th :k: E.E.; entered Union in Sept. 1941; · 1 e presse · IS 1ear e an s the team tog-ether from a group of iHexperi- plying 10,000 volts, nothing hap- transferred to v- 12 Unit July 1 , and appreciation for the kindness d 11 t t h . . t pens, throw it away. You can get 1943 .,· graduate of Milne High of the speakers' remarks and for ence men-a S rangers 0 lm-m 0 an just as lit on luke warm water. the gift pr ted to h' efficiently-working team. Everyone feels If, on the other hand, a sludge of School, Albany, N. Y. ~~~, ~~e~s~e~n~~~~Im~. ~~~:;=j k · miscellaneous substances (arsenic, A/S Jaclt Frank Trenner, candi- II' sorry that Mel met with such tough luc 111 iron cobalt white lead, etc, etc.) date for a degree of B.S. in E.E.; this, his first football season at Union. Nev- is precipitated, the liquor is fair. entered Union as a sophomore in l d 'd 1 · b d 11 But if every fuse in the place blows Sept. 1941; transferred to V-12 July erthe ess, he I a marve OUS JO an· we a out, \Bottom Up\ me hearties, The 1, 1943; a graduate of Baltimore appreciate it. Stuff's Potent. Where in hell could Polytechnic High, Baltimore. Let us not forget the assistant coaches AI my date be'? Have you seen her? Alden Paul Hasse, candidate for She looks like a prune, to prune a degree of B.S.; entered Union in Ciampa and Chief Milo Sewards. They too is to cut. to cut is to chop, a Sept. 1942; a graduate of Buffalo aided the team with invaluable help. They chop is a piece of meat. Oh, here Poly, Buffalo, N. Y. she is now. Well, as one Vampire Theodore Harold Grey, candidate too share in the credit for building up the said to another Vampire, \Come on for a degree of B.A. in absentia; team. To everyone, the students wish to say thanks. We saw the team; we saw it with its spirit, we saw it at work; and we saw it fight--it was a team of which we are proud. It was a real Union football team. Baby, I know a place where we entered Union in Sept. 1940; com- can have a swell neck\. \I sipped pleted college work in Army Air the n'ectar from her lips as under Forces College Training Progr,am the mo.on we sat and wondered if at University of Alabama; a gradu- ever a man before. had drunk from ate of Corinth High, Corinth, N. Y. a mug like that\. Ah, the Prom's really great. lil Petals. Old Rosebud really is having a time. Just look at all those couples dancing cheek to cheek· from head to toe. This is really a dance to be remembered. This is VVe need your head in Our Business ACME BARBER SHOP 509 UNION ST. THREE CHEERS FOR THE GRIDIRON BALL the last Rosebt·d of this term and I'd like all of you to know I've really enjoyed being with you. Now, quit your damn applauding, I'll be back next term. This is the last dance of the term too but we'll have many more in the future so don't you kids think this is the last. Look, there's \Wedge\ Olson out there. <He's a simple tool). It seems that when looking for his girls house tonite he stumbled into a sewer which just shows to go ya he doesn't know his lass from a hole in the ground. The football decorations are really realistic ... the only thing that is missing is the referee. Maybe its a good thing cause a lot of guys would be pen- alized for making passes less than five yards behind the line of scr·immage. <By the way, Mac, isn't jitterbugging a form of unnecessary roughness?) Oh, ain't we spicy to- nite?O h, I forgot, it seems a lot of Puritans have accidently stumbled onto Rosebud and The Gridiron Ball is here! Long have we waited for this moment, and yet, time flew b~· so fast that October 7th came upon us be- fore \\'e realized it. Weeks of feverish prepa- mtions have come to an end. The climax of the Fall's social season has made its entQ' tonight. The success of the Ball is complete. Over two hund1·ed couples have assembled in the festiwly decur-ated Alumni Grmnasium to dance to Jack Teag-arden's music. An atmosphere of gaiety surrounds the entire Cullege. The whole Campus has been turned topsy-turv:,, to put this event over \with a bang.\ There is no doubt about it-this is an ewning that will not easily be forgotten. ~Iany of the old timers will be reminded of the glol'ious days of past formals. In one thing they all ag-ree-this dance ranks even with any of them. The war has wrought many changes in this perennial Fall classic. The predominance of uniforms and the smaller number of cars are some of the most marked changes. However, these have no ef~ feet on the success of this highspot in our college careers. One unfortunate fact about this formal is that it ·carne so late in the term-final ex- aminations begin next Thursday. Some stu- dents, behind in their work, were thus pre- vented from attending this gala affair. How- ever, we must take things as they come. In times like these, nothing can be made perfect. l\Iuch credit for the success of this dance goes to the members of the committee that stood behind it. Hard work and sacrifices were their contributions. They deserve an ovation from everyone. Thanks also go to the College and Naval authorities for their cooperation, to the fellows from the Sig-ma Phi and Delta Upsilon dormitories for turn- ing their houses over to the guests, and to the student body in general for its loyal sup- port. It's a magnificent dance and everyone is having an unforgettable time. This is in- deed a fitting way to close the term. For the men who are leaving in two weeks, this will always be one of their most cherished memories of Union. Three Cheers for the Gridiron Ball FAREWELL TO A FINE OFFICER Again this week, we of the Concordiensis regretfully bid farewell to one of the most prominent and popular campus personalities. This week it was made known that our V-12 Executive Officer, Lieutenant Brubaker has been transfel'l'ed to a higher position in the V-12 Programs at the University of Idaho and at the University of Utah School of :Medicine. We would take time now to con- gratulate Lieu tenant Brubaker on his new appointment a11d to thank him for all he has done for the V-12 unit here at Union and for the establishment of such fine civi- lian-Navy relaUonships as now exist and have existed since the beg-inning of the accelerated program. We recognize Lieutenant Bl'Ubaker as one of the mainstays in the formulation of this fine administrational policy that has done so much to make Union the liveable in- stitution that it has been during the war. Lieutenant Brubaker is a fine officer; fair, honest and cooperative. He has been a con- stant aid to the various committees in charge of the different college activities. He has been on constant and careful watch to as- sist and lead trainees who had slipped into a danger zone. Lieutenant Brubaker has made a fine record while at Union. An or- ganizer from the beginning, he has been a pioneer in V-12 programs and has been ac- tive under three Commanding Officers while here at Union - having maintained the thread of continuity, so necessary in any efficient organization, for some sixteen months. Lieutenant Brubaker, in a statement re- cently issued, has wished \To each and all, clear sailing-\. Clear sailing to you Lieuten- · ant. Good luck and best wishes from us all, Navy and civilians alike, wherever you may venture. You have done Union a real service, a service for which we thank you. We are · proud to have had the advantage of working under you and with you, so again, thank yoli and good luck. In Schenectady It's for Shirts Mica's special insulating qualities are mighty import~nt in communications equipment. No equivalent exists, so war's huge demands caused a critical shortage. Bell Telephone Laboratories~ scientists were assigned the task of somehow finding more mica. They found it- in the very considerable amounts of raw mica which visual inspec- tion had rejected. By developing electrical apparatus to test the two most important electrical properties, they increased the usable amount of mica by half and so stretched current supplies of mica to fill all military needs. In many such ways the Bell System is serving the nation, constantly meeting the needs of our fighting forces for dependable communications. BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM t~Service to the Nation in Peace and War\ SA F firs tioi tha the OWl exe of the P. 187 for the exe gyi Gy ou~ to ne'i '] ly the soc on vlo by As: a < th~ $9,1 su· cia er:: wh wa bri cia of tio of del sel F f c s

d ~1- ~r SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1944 3 J)now Your Campus NEWS Q·F THE DAY I Lt B b k ( 't) cer, Lt. Comdr. Horner arrived on ' . ru . a er c:on June 26th, after which time he as- advice on any problems which con- sumed duties as the Executive Of- fronted the trainees. ficer up to this date. Organ Recital SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Director of Music at Union College, will give the second in his fall series of or- gan recitals Sunday afternoon, Gctober 8 at 4:00 o'cl0cli. He will- be assisted at the piano by Miss Greta Brown, pianist. The program includes \Rhapsody\ by Cole; \Canvon Walls\ \Jagged Peaks in the .M:oonUght\ \Wi.nd in the Pine ! For this action the company re- ceived a special citation from the Treasury Department \for dis- tinguished service in 'behalf ·Of the National War Savings Program.\ Mr. Jacobs is a member of the Board of Trustees uf the Illinois The life ef Lt. Brubaker centers President Dixon Ryan Fox stated almost entirely around a great edu- today, \the departure of Lt. Bru- cational career. He was born and baker will be a very real loss to educated in Kansas. He attended Union College and a personal loss McPherson College from which he to those of us who have known him graduated with a B.A. degree. He well. We re.alize that his transfer taught in Idaho for five years and will be considered a promotion, and also was principal and supel'intend- we congratulate both him and the ent of pt:blic schools during this Navy on this action, but we can't time. Coaching football. basketball help feeling a little selfish about it, and baseball also comptised some and regretting any change that of his duties. He attained his M.A. takes him elsewhere. ; Trees\ and \Woodland Idyl\ by CIO'key; \The Squit··rel\ by Weaver; \Carmon\ by Sowerby; \The Bells of St. Anne de Beaupre\ and \Si.ng of the Basket-Weaver\ by Russell; and \Rhapsody in Blue\ by Gersh- win. Since the recitals are being broadcast by Frequency Medulation 1 tSation WGFM, the audience is re- 1 quested to be seated by 4:00 o'clock. I Proctor Tobin Richard B. Tobin, of the senior class which wiU graduate in Feb- ruary, 1945, is to be Pt octor of 1 the Sigma Phi dormitory for the I ensuing term. Town Meeting Institute 0f Technology, and a mem- ber of the Committee on ·Economic Policy of the United States Cham- ber of Commerce. E • 5 Me t degree at the University of Kansas. The original Navy educational iftCJineer e Lt. Brubaker ccmtinued post-gradu- arrangement within Union College SCHENECTADY, N. Y.- Profes- ate work at Clermont College in was made with, by, ot· through Lt. sor Robert Stanley of Union Col- California and at the Un·ivcrsity Brubaker. During . the mont.h. ·Of lege, Vice-Chairman of the Mo- of Southern California. With this June, 1943, he acqmred ~ sufftctell:t hawk-Hudson Group ,Society of, background. he emerged with a k_nowledge of our e_ducattOnal trad!· Automotive Engineers, announces General Secondary Teacher's Cre-1 tton, plf;tn and ctrc~mstances ~o that Robert Stanley, Chief Test dential and a General Administta- enable htm to work wtth Den Gatts Pilot, Bell Aircraft Corporation, tion Credential of the State of Cali- and others on a plane of perfect will address the Schenectady En- fornia. Later he was the chairman understanding. He has, as we could gineering Societies on jet propul- of the English Department at La see, bee? _v_e;y mindful of his ~avy sion planes at 8:00 o'clock on Mon- Verne College. For about nine years . respo?s!btlthes; yet by prev10~s day evening, October 16 at Union prior to his commissioning, Lt. expert~nce and. natural taste he IS College Memorial Chapel. Brubake1· served in the Public educattonally-mmded, and we have Mr. Stanley is the author of a School system at Pomona, Cali- been fortunate indeed to have an t'ecent ma<>azine article entitled \He fornia, as chairman of the Eaglish officer like that to work with on Flew Out:' First Jet Plane.\ The and Elocution Department. Other the educational side. His presence public is invited. positions held by him included and cooperation have likewise been Dr. Fox, Editor membership in the executive com- gratefully appreciated in our gen- mittee sf Southern California Col- era! college life. We had hoped that lege Association for three years, his appointment here might be con· chairman of the academic commit- tinued for the duration.\ tee which counciled and recom- mended stt:dents for college en- trance, and Commissioner of Fo- rensics for the Southern California Junior College Association for seven years. He was also Secretary- Treasurer of the Pacific Coast sec- tion of Phi Rho Pi, a national Jun- ior College speech association for about five years. Being a member of Phi Delta Kappa. an honorary national educational fraternity, proves Lt. Brubaker's high s>cholas- tic record. Back the Attack! EVERY Week Buy War Stamps ALUMNI GYMNASIUM SCHENECTADY, N. Y.-Whipple Jacobs, President of the Belden Manufacturing Company in Chi- cago, and Dr. Ray E. Untereiner, Associate Economist for the Na- tional Association of Manufacturers while he is on leave of absence from his position as Dean of the California Istitute of Technology, will be the speakers on the 222nd Empire State Town Meeting, Sun- day atfernoon at 1:30 o'clock. The subject for discussion is \Will We Have Inflation?\ Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, president of Union College, will act as Chairman of the meet- ing in Old Chapel on the campus, and radio station WGY will broad- cast the discussion. SCHENECTADY, N. Y.-Presi- dent Dixon Ryan Fox, of Union College, is one of the editors of a series of pamphlets known as the \G. I. Roundtable Series\ and de- signed for off-duty discussion in United States Army camps overseas and at home. The first three have just appeared·: \What Shall Be Done About Germany After the War?\ \What Shall Be Done With War Criminals?\ and \Will The French Republic Live?\ About forty more are in course of production at present. Discussions will be C·on- ducted by the orientation officer in each of nearly 50,000 companies. Chapel Program After being selected as one of about 250 educators who had been chosen for the V-12 program, Lt. Brubaker's naval career started upon being commissione.d on March 12, 1943. Upon completion of in- doctrination at Columbia University for about two months, Lt. Ere- baker reported here on June 1, 1943, ae officer in charge of this station. He remained in this capacity until the commanding offi- MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler President Nott was probably the~-------­ ftrst person to intt·oduce instruc- tion in gymnastics at Union. At that· time many students were of the opinion that having to cut theil· own fire wood furnished sufficient exercise. However, the installation of steam heat left no doubt as to the need for exercise. supervising architects of the future gym. Detailed plans of the new gym were d.rawn up. Mr. Jacobs originated in 1942 the \war bond-or-cash-dividend\ prac- tice by offering the stockholders of his company the option of tak- ing all or part of their dividends in war bonds, war stamps, or cash. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. - The Rev. William E. Montgomery of the Presbyterian Church, Glens Falls, N. Y .. will be the speaker at the Union College Chapel service, Sun- day, October 8, 1944. The service be_ gins at 11:00 A. M. and is broadcast over station WGY. I bb Jay Street Welcomes the V-12 and Civilian Students A gymnasium wa·s completed in 1874, to provide an adequate spa:e for the students who took part m the various sports and physical exercises. By the early 1900's this gymnasium, now known as the Old Gym Dorm, was inadequate. Vari- ous groups of students attempted to get the College interested in a By November, 1911, about $55,- 500 had been gathered together for the gym. However, $60,000 was needed to start work on the proj- ect and an additional $40.000 to complete it. This $60,000 mark was reached by a substantial gift of $6,000 by the Board of Trustees. ----~~~~~~ new gym but to no avail. The demand for a new gym final- ly bore fruit. In December, 1908, the Union College Gymnasium As- sociation was formed to begin work on a new gym- Rough plans, pre- viously drawn up. were presented by the Physical Director to the Association. The project of raising a campaign fund was presented to the students. Almost immediately $9,000 was pledged by the students. Subscriptions were to be made by classes- The names of all subscrib- ers were to be stamped on bricks which were to be used to line the walls of the trophy-room. The bricks of the members of each class were to be placed togethet•. Funds for Gym or: November 11, 1910, the classes of 1913 and 1914 pledged an addi- tional $4,000 for the gym. In view of the response shown by the stu- dents, the Gymnasium Association selected George Post and Sons as FOUR BARBERS, Hnvo reputations for n.Iertness, smart ltnlr cutting- and elen.nlitloss. , • , You are nlwa;ys suro of bhe best at •• , Erie Barber Shop 122 WaH St. 22 Erie Blvd. Phone 6-6403 Nex:t to Bus Terminal FRENCH CLEANERS AND DYERS • Speedy Service • Low Prices • Tip Top Quality l29 JAY STREET One year later the total amount- ed to $66,000. On Monday morning, April 8, 1913, the ground was broken for the beginning of the new gym- nasium. Foote Memorial The estate of Wallace T. Foote, Jr., gave $5,000 for the construc- tion of a swimming pool in the gym. The gift was pledged by Geo. C. Foote, '99, executor. in a letter dated March 20, 1913, addressed to F. B. Richards who represented the class of 1888 in the Graduate Coun- cil. The Hon. Wallace T. Foote, Jr., was a member of Congress from 1895 to 1899. He was alumni trustees of Union ·College from 1896 to 1899. On Monday afternoon, June 9, 1913, the cornerstone was laid. Ap- propriate objects were placed in the stone for archaelogists of a fu- ture age to dig up. On January 9, 1914, the first bas- ketball game was held in the new gymnasium. Between the halves Dt·. Richmond. who was President of the college at that time, wel- comed the spectators. He granted pet·mission to all to inspect the building but asked them not to judge the building to harshly as no equipment had been installed. In 1938, the medical office of the college was transferred to the Trophy Room Suite. Plumbing was installed and new medical equip- ment purchased. I.n the fall of 1939 classes in phy- sical training were started. Only freshmen were required to take gym work. In the fall of 1942, the program was extended to include upperclassmen. LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTlONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS- DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET All Dairy Products from Green Acres Wm,. Green. Jr. Dairy Products 1701 UNION WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens and the Finest Gifts Corner State and Center Sts. JAMES F. BURNS C. S. MOODY OPTOMETRIST EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL EYES EXAMINED AND GLASSES FITTED 206 CLINTON STREET 115 BROADWAY PHONE 6-5747 Three Doors from State St. RESE NEW PRESSURIZED CABINS A N alert crew is needed to give any airplane the edge on the enemy. That's why the new B-29 Superfor- tresses have pressurized cabins that en- able airmen to relax in relative comfort on unusually long flights between their base and the target. G-E turbosuperchargers keep crew members warm and provide them with sufficient oxygen even at very high altitudes, eliminating the use of oxygen masks or electric flying suits except during the brief period of the actual bombing run. Consequently airmen feel better, react faster, when their ob- jective is in sight and enemy opposition is the toughest. The turbosuperchargers which main- tain near-normal atmospheric condi- tions in the cabin of the B-29 were originally developed by General Elec- tric to provide compressed air for plane engines. On the B-29 there are two turbosuperchargers to supply each of the four engines. Two of these turbo- superchargers also feed air at regulated temperatures to the sealed cabins. Gen- eral Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y. Hear the General Electric programs: \The G-E All-girl Orchestra\ Sunday JO p.m. EWT, NBC- \The World Today\ news, every weekday 6:45 p.m. EWT, CB5. The best Investment in the world is In this country's f11ture. Keep all the Bonds You Buy, GENERAL fj ELECTR~~

4 SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1944 ·---··-~ ·---------------------------- --·-------·-····---------------·---- Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox Jackson•s Garden • ------------ UNION COLLEGE Schenectady, New York DIXON RYAN FOX, President Founded in 1795. during George Washington's admini stra +ion. The first American college with a planned campus. The first college to introduce a science course as an alternative to the oid classical curriculum. The first chapter of Phi Beta Kappa in New York State was established at Union. The first national col:ege social fraternity was founded at Union later three others were founded here. William Seward and George Toombs. r1va. Secretaries of State during the Civil War were both graduates of U'lion. Unions greatect alum~i is Chester A. Arthur. President of the United States 1881-1884. First on-campu' fraternity house in country was erected at Union. Memorial Chapel Dome Washburn Hall Lt. F. B. Andreen Throckie s. I !if ly m in d! H to of Sc M N st AI P: n~ D· cr D to M Ci w b~ kE H nc G: th a! fa a1 Ct b~ of fl' m m se T dt ti tl E B n: cc T E c n: gl E tc H M tl €1 c ic do ai N o: c D s .[\/. G T w it B I! L w tl T u s i!: a a 0

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1944 5 ® Grid zron Ball GuestS W El C 0· M· . . .E I i Oonl~e:.,~ ,!h:~~\~'i' hold- ~- '~ i Sigma Ph.i 1 Sigma Phi Civvies have acquii·ed i . a grand total of twelve da-ncing damsels for the weekend. For a change Schenectady doesn't have more than any place else, in fact, ite only two t'epresentatives a·re Miss Lois Ann Bennett and Miss Helen Funk. Tying the l0ca! belles i-n beauty and in nt mbcrs are the I gi.l'ls from Kingston and from Skid- more. The Queens fwm Kingston are Miss Marian Van Kleeck and Miss Anne D<mnaruma while Skid- mm·e's fairest at·e Miss Dorcas Fox and Miss Betsey Wirt. The Pride of the Mosquito Flats, Miss Dorothy Allringer of Bloomfield, N. J., is here tonight gracing our fair cam- pue. A true Irishman, all the way from Gloversville is Miss Martha Sweeney. From halfway around the world is Miss Rae Hollis of Buffalo, N. Y. Her next door neigh- bor, Miss June Eppinlr, from Roch- ester will also be here. Connecti- cut's two representatives are Miss Penny Ker·ley of Brooklyn and Miss Jane Nardelli from Water- bury. • ing it in at the Beta house? Some one must have forgotten to lock the door recently since wme of the Beta boys haVe invited a few of Sigma Phi North South Hunah, they've done it. The low- lifes from North South have firml- ly met some girls; who k11ows, maybe they'll even become civi'lized. The Bal:Jston breezes have wafted in on scented waves the Misses M11- dred Burton and Nancy Rood. Hometown, U. S. A. sends a home- town bombshell in Miss Joan Myers of Glens Falls. A Iicht lassie from Scotia is Miss Mary Lou Dappert. Miss Alice Meulener of Paterson, N. J. is leaving that unfortunate state to visit Uniontown. Allen's Alley has nothi·ng on Allentown, Pa. from whence comes Miss Eli- nor Comp, Washington crossed the Delawat·e but Miss Joan ·Evans has crossed the Hudson lo come to Dutchmanville from Port Washing- ton. Pressman-hold the press for Miss Gerry Pressman of New York City. Our local belles are in solid with the low-lifes as can be seen by this list: the Misses Doris Swan- ker, Rosemary Bt·andhorst, Harriet Harpinger, Hden Kis•·el and Eli- nor Plaski. Old Gym Dorm Evidently the Freshie;-> from Old Gym Dorm have bPen overworked this tHm. Thev haven't been around much lateiy as shown by the fact that these few be a l tiful belles are coming- to the prom: Miss Jane CosgrovP, Malone. N.Y.; Miss Bar- bara A. Brooket· from the fair city of Tt·enton, N. J.: Miss JanP Curti,. fmm neat by Ballston Spa. NCNS In a mannet yet unknown to the multitudeB, NCNS Tenm·s have made a favorable impression upon several unsuspecting yot ng- lad iPs. These >'Hille young ladies will no doubt be a mite more cautious next time. Our own \City that lights the worl<.i\ ;.;ivrs us the :\1i~ses Eleanor Ftank, Jane Carruthers, Bobbie Miller and Connie Mur- naghan. From act·oss the Mohawl' comes Miss Ann Raycoclr of Scotia. Two hieh Colleens, the Misses I Eileen Connell and Constance Me-l Coy of White Plains are here to- night. Brooklyn, in all its gory glory sends the gorgeous gals, Edith Betts and Doris Meehan. The top tennis tournament town, Forest Hills, ships a champion looker in Mi&s Irene Smith. Troy, although the ·home of RPI, is not entirely enerp.y territory for Miss Helene Cahill is certainly welcome to Un- ion. Coming down ftom Ticon- deroga, without a musket, natl:r- ally, or is it, is Miss Norma Semple. New Rochelle rests its reputation on Miss Pat Scofield. ln from Crosos River for the Prom is Miss Doris Cashmore. Coming in on the Staten Island Ferry is Miss Mary Marchese. A beautiful neck from Great Neck is Miss Anida Mayer. The sun shines east, the eun shines west, but in Riverdale, California. it rains the best says Miss Carolyn Kellam. Sounding in from Long Island comes Mis& Rose Dobson of Lynbrook. Mt. Vernon <not the whiskey)shoots into the scene on the frame of Miss Rita Handee. The boys from Fort Plain have sent us a bag of gold, Miss Rosoe Marie Smith, and last and far from least is a gal we'll all love, a Navy gal, a wave! Her name is Sid Tuttle and she's a wave we could all go overboal'd with. Alpha Delta Phi 'POEM that wonderful species of animal known as WOMEN to the Ball. Here's hoping the boys don't seale welcoB1e girls, \V·e'1·e glad to meet cha- the rest of them away. union's men are he1·e to greet cha. many bad habits \ve'U prob'lr teach ;;a- words of wisdom prex will p1·each ya. while teagarden's music' we proudly featuh to many cokes we hope to treat cha. in the balcony \Ve'll seat cha, and with our arms we'll try to heat cha as with this line we'll hope to reach ya; oh you gl'eat big beautiful creatuh baby, baby what a peacha we love ya, \Ve love ya, eacha 'nevery one o' ya. A buc]{ sarge from Sargent is Miss Viola Buckmiller, while wheel- !...· ing in ft·om 'Wheelock rolls Mio•s Joan Bradish. Vedder or not to · l come <I dood it) Miss Doris Vedder I • ,. . ~ I -----· -··---~-' of Rotterdam Junction. Pass de salt <I quit) for Miss Jean Dus- sault of Cohoes. Scooting scooters, clear the way for Scotia's pretty ·pride and joy, Miss Mary Smith. From the neighboring \burg'' or' Albany-well what do you know, sisters no less-the Misses Pat and Jayne Osborn and Miss Betty Flynn. Sallying all the way ft•om Syracuse is Miss Saiiy Harvey. Our own \loaded lighted and left\ city sends Miss Eileen \HONEY\ Queern and we do mean honey; the Misses Florence Reisinger and Anita Sulli- van-wow!-and hoiiy smokes, Miss Martha Holly. Chi Psi Chi Psi The Mountaineers from Mount Chi Psi have yodeled and twenty- five girls have answered ft·om all over the civilized world. Peckin' in from White Plains we have Miss Barabar PeC'kham; the Yellow- jacket of the weekend is Miss Con- nie Gordon from Rochester U.; a Casanova is Miss Olga Ogonow- ski; our ally, Skidmore is sending down Miss Joyce Furrey, Miss Net- tie Rutland and Miss Mary Ann Hazelton; if you watch closely you'll be able to see several local lassies coming over the wall from Sche- nectady, among them are Miss Lor- etta Kenrick, Miss Rosemazie Di Cerbo and Miss Renee Jones· Al- bany State has three entt·ie's in the beauty contest, Miss Mary Hayes, Miss Connie Les~lcr, and Miss Betty Howell; the tiny village nestling 'neath Union's hoary wall,; contributes the Misses Elaine Shear, Ruth Albers, Joan Klenke, Pat Brown and Virginia Rolfe: subway dweller Miss Vita Sari R udikoff will be up from \Noiseyville on the Hudson\; here strictly on business in Miss Marcia Kems from Albany Business College; Schenectadylites who will shine are Miss Peggy Mm·phy, Miss Irene Biganski and Miss Aida Di Sarro, another teach- er-to-be is Miss Alice Lupton from Oneonta State Teachers College: the \City that Lights and Hauls the World\ hauls some bright lights up in the shapes of Misses Ted- die Cassella, Lucy Anne Taylm and t'Pd-hPaded Dolores O'Connor. Deita Phi Union College As It Might Have Been Some unfmtunate young ladies will he escorted by the freshies from the \Hill but aftPr nil, thin-gs m·e tough all ovpz· now. From Un- ion to Union comes VanDe rpe to Dorp, ~1iss Gloria Van Dorpe of Union, N. J. The spt·ing water flowing from Sa1·atoga is bt·inging Miss Betty Bassett. Maplewood. N. J. ,sPnds as its representative to the gala occasion Miss Jeanette Goodrich. New Paltz ::'-l'ormal, near Poughkeepsie allows us the charms of Miss Cora Barnes. Poughkeepsie sends Miss Ethyln Hardley. Psi U I Florrie Schwartzberg is here from Cornell has sent Miss Helen Muhl- I also from Troy is Miss Marion The \gentlemen\ of the \Of-1 Woodm~te; t;lore Schen_ectadylit~s f_elder _to us. From the thriving Hoffman; another Dorpian con- ficers Club\ are un the ball with w_ho .wtll s~me a~e MISs. Connze l1t~le crty of Amsterdam we receive tingent includes the Misses Shirley lesR femmes. Living like kings evi-l ZJ~ntck, Mts~ Shtr!ey Ftsi; and I Mtss Theresa M. Ferraro and from Weaver, Shirley King, Shirley dently leaves them with the need! Mtss Irene Smts and that smts me our own fair metropolis, Miss San- Kehrer and Irene Huick <she just for queens and here they are. .I fine; the Subway dwellers. of New dra Lou Stark. came to be different); from the The Ke~stone state is here in York a~e rep~·esented by Mtss Mary· S th C II S Mosquito Flats of New Jersey has the lovely form of Miss Anne Me- ~collan, Melzose, the _town_ of beau- OU 0 ege OUth come Miss Carol Mitchell of Ridge- Grath of Philadelphia. Whistling in ~-fdulb '~~me~, ~~ndsA Ill ~~s Aim~ The boys from B-1 slipped in at wood; from nearby Colonie is Miss from Vassar for the evening is ). 1 be 0 am' 1 t~s ~~ boppa 0 f the last minute with twenty-six gay June Barrington; last but not least Miss Maureen Brown. A sage from b a~_Y camp e es e evy 0 lassies. Schenectady seems to be is Miss Sally Brenner of Utica. Russel Sage is Miss Lynn Leff. The eau tes. the most outstanding with 46.1'7< Phi Gamma Delta flower of Sandy's orange is Miss Delta Upsilon of the total. Among these gallant Ruth Brooks of Newark, unfor- gals are the Misses Mary Irish, tunately in Jersey. Forewarned is The BTO's of the Campus have Margaret Pfiel, Rosemary Brown Foreman, Miss Yevette 0. Fore- been honored with the presence of and Ruth Scrafford; Trojan Miss man of Washington Heights, N. several beautiful girls who, no Pat Fay has snuck in the back Y. Miss Marie Edwards is coming doLbt, know what they are doing. door; alone from Malone has come from Syracuse University to see Never let it be said that the D U Miss Betty Maguire; Schenectady Foxey. Since Brooklyn is now a boys are to be outdone or undersold sticks its head in again with the part, although distant, of the Union, by anyone. From State Teachers' Misses Fresatore, Martha Niven, we welcome the Misses Alice Baum College in nearby Albany comes Mary McBride and Shirley Gog- and Dorothy Iler to our Union. Miss Joan Alverson who will lend gins; Albany's sole entrant i.s Miss Albany State's lone contribution to her beauty to our campus for the Helen Kulikowski; Skidmore'& best the \officers\ is Miss Edith Tan- week-end. Also from Albany comes is represented by Miss Martha enbaum. Miss Dorothy Boice is Miss Marion White to swell the Clark and Miss Jean Riley; all the floating in from Cohoes, while Miss bountiful bevy of beauties. Long way from Indiana, Seiiersburg to MargareL DeLuke is breezing in Beach, Long Island, has put its be exact, is Miss Cleveland, Fern, from Duanesburg. We welcome, hopes on Miss Enid Stein. The Big to be exact; Yankees from Yonkers even though they walloped us, Miss Town has sent to the boys of D U are the Misses Jean Pl'yzgoda and Jane Schoonmaker from the Uni- the Misses Adrian Thomason and Joyce Moore; Miss Glozia Dicker- versity of Rochester. From the land Elaine Roseman. The \Big Red\ of son is here from New Haven, Conn.; of Smith is Miss Frances Jahrling. The local belles seem to be popu- 1 lar with the P. U. boys since the Misses Joan McEvoy, Charlotte At-1 hell, Dolores Bud ruck, Gertrude Zalewski, Betty Drooz and Claire 1 :\lahoney are in attendance. Skid-: 1 more has Miss Caryl Cushing and 1 , :\liss Dot Dutton carrying its colot· , - wow 1 and a long whistle> Representatives from the farthest reaches of the&e United States will be the guests of those boys from the farthest reaches of the world this weekend. The gentlemen of that ship, h1: ilt from a Steinmetz design with a French Mansard roof, called Phi Gam, are having up from the deep south, Miss Eileen O'Shea of Brooklyn, from the cow- country of Amsterdam, Miss Helena Kelly, from Hartford, Conn., in the far east comes Miss Carolyn Ru- dolf, and by dog sled from Platts- burg, Miss June Irwin. From an- other great midwestern town, not too many hundt·ed miles the other side of the Scotia bridge, comes Miss Mary Beckler of Gloversville. From two more states below the Mason-Dixon line (well almostl come Miss Alice AIIen of Glen Cove. L. I., Miss Ann Nichols of West- field, N. J .. and Mi~s Betty Ewald : of South Omnge. To be picl,ed up 1 along the way by the above dog- sled is Miss Evelyn Wood of Ka- tona, N. Y. Locally, from the quiet ! little college village of Schenectady, i co~e Mis<? Betty Jackson and :\'!iss 1 NCMS The Madmen of Middle have gone to town with a galaxy of bemtlful women who presumably don't know what they're doing or they wouldn't do it. From the spooky city, Erie, Pa., has come Miss Marty Bert while the City that Lights and Hat:Js the World is sending several upstanding yo_ung lassies in Miss Betty Brogue, Mtss Peggy O'Connell, Miss Nancy Nel.son, Miss Elaine Starkman Miss Lou King and Mis& Jean: Berry. Skidding in from Skidmore is Miss Carol Davis; also from that region of the north winds is Miss Betsy Clinnicl{ from Saratoga. All the way up from Freeport, Long Island, is Miss Joan Smith (we hear that John Doe will accompany her). Not to be outdone, Freeport's little neighbor, New York City, is hustling in with Miss Edna San- droni. Another Schenectady con- tingent includes Miss Fern Schoon- maker, Miss Eleanor Ecker, Miss Rose Waldron <who's that shrimp with her?), Miss Sylvia Schwartz and Miss Vivian Carlson. The Capital City is represented by Miss Virginia Clapper while Schenectady rounds out its group with that little stick of dynamite, Miss Joan Hani- gan. Phi Delta Theta i The girls wet en't fleet encugh to , get away from the fleet men so fout teen of tht•m W<'ll' capt, I'<'U.' Fifty pt-r eent, on thl' nmt•, at<' f1om DuqJvilll'; >Uilll' of tb•>t' l!l<'' 1 Elmor Squires. Also from this little 1 town which dPpends upon the ncb!<> 1 institution of L'nion Coll£'g-e for its ' '<'Xi\tPn<'r. journ£'y :\lis~ Coli£'PIJ. :\1c- · 1 GauJpy and :\li\ Tlwt <'Sa Cc•>are. ' A capital ]aRc' ft om I h•' capitol t!is- 1 , the :'lltssPs :\1aty Rostkowski. Doto· 1 lhy Lupl<a. Leona Van \\orsi and Amy Lang: ft·om the land of th<> ' Plt'-~!iddit·~ ha·· c'OfllP :\Tb!\\ :'-::llli'\' \\'u1 tu::u1 ' f .\:-I,UI \ Pall'. tilt: I chanics from Mechanicsville are the 1 · Misses Mary Zmyewski and Roberta Henderson; Long Islander Miss Psi Upsilon Delta Upsilon ; trict. :\riss Dot is Solomon, winds t.p ' the U.S.K Phi Gamma Delta's 1 1 rostPr. I I SCMS Phi Delta Theta

6 SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1944 SPO\irtsHORTS Gridders Face RPI In Return Fray The Union-Columbia Baker Bowl Contest is no longer news, but there are a few sidelines which might be of interest: The Columbia Squad, clad in light blue jerseys with dark blue shoulder caps and numbers, demonstmted precision and timing which a great coach, Lou Little, has given them. The Lions face Syracuse tomonow and should gain victory No. 2 Fullback Wayne Mor- gan wns a powei·house plunger fm·· the N. Y. club ... \Hank\ Stout fHIPd the qt artPrback slot. kPy position in a T formation, and handled himself lilte a real veteran. His deceptive style was really bothPrsome to the Dutchmen ... Left end George Gilbert and left tackle Bob Heller teamed up in a combination which wre·cked havoc in the Cnion backfield throughout the game. On the Gamet side of the ledger: Art Schmitt turned in his usual hard smashing game from his end position . . . Tom Crone was at his best Saturday, ever moving in on \Columbia plays. One on occa- sion, he turned back Wayne Mor- !!an for no gain, when only a vanl was nf'eded for a Columbia iouC'hdown. Tom made the tackle with hi~ ll'ft at·m. while the other was wat ding off a would-be- bloclt- •·r ... Don Malick moved in from the S<'Condary and stopped several Lion plunges 1 no pun intendedJ . . . Bob Fox ~uff<'l eel another in- jury to hb che~t. but was back in the> ganw fm tl!l' final period. ap- parently OK for action ... In genPral, thE:' Cnion attack failed to rlich at any time. n<'lting only five flr~t downs throughout the whole ~on test . . . :>.fa tick had to hustle to recover his blocked kich after it hall c:u umc<.l off an oplJu~ing line. man's C'hest into the end zone. Had he nut beaten Gil bet t to the pig- skin it would have been a Co- 1uml,ia touchdown instead of a two point :oafety. Mel Hein and AI Ciampa both had sore arms Monday morning, and it's little wonder. The two went through so many handshaying ritu- als that one would think they were Tammany Hall politicians. Only one glance was needed to show that they were meeting ex-football play- ers, for the men were really of rugged stature ... The Columbia pl'ogram !'an a picture of \Champ\ taken when he was in his prime as a Lion center ... Lou Little, speak- ing in a voice barely above a whis- per, was most cooperative with the t.:CRS staff members whenever they sought any info or RssistanC'P. There was a little pre-game acti<'a when three N. Y. youths attempted to crash the gate. As they came dash- ing past this correspondent, it looked pretty much as though they were destined to loose their race, for, alas, they had run up against a fleet-footed guard who was hot on their heels when they rounded a corner to reach the stands ... Servicemen gained free admission to the battle, thanks to the USO ... A crowd of 8,000 witnessed the contest. With this issue, this correspon- dent will bow out of the sports picture for the duration. Once more the sports page will come under the able guidance .of Bill Bakel!', whose duties on the football squad made it impossible for him to con- tinue work on the \Concordy\ this fall. Welcome back, Bill Baker! In closing, we wish to express our very sincere thanks to Vinnie De Baun, Paul Boyle, Roy Woolsey, Bob Lindsay and George Haas for the assistance which they have ren- dered to the sports department. It has been a pleasure to work with such willing fellows. We would also like to thank the members of the athletic staff, \Hal\ Wittner, Mel Hein, AI Ciampa, and Jess Perkins for the cooperation which they showed whenever appr.oached by one of the \Concordy\ staff mem- bers for information in the field of sports. Mr. Wittner has been most considerate in placing records at our disposal and performing those little aids which lighten the burden of a sports writer. Shoe Rebuilders Ball's ~·~:;: INO. 633 STATE ST. Phone 6-3456 ................. \'\\'\'\.. ... ... .. . .. .. ... .. .... ... .... ............... Calf Ball and Ball Will Call ~ .. ~ ......................... ... Collections Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday see John Mann-Sigma. Phi Dorm Phone 2-1262 The Union gridiron season closedo,b----------- today-a bitter a:nd hard fought. l. c·l D h T a losing season, but without the, ·lo·ns ' . ·aw ' ·utc·' men 0 losing spirit. Despite our defeats · · , · · · . : · . ~~~tinouuel~ i~~~-~~sJty th~n~ear;ri!~ r· •. h B 2.1 0 s smashing in~o all opposition, big •rl U m p . . y· - · CO:re and small, w1th a courage and de- · termination seldom seen in this or Lo.u Little caNed upon the T for-~·------·-------·------- any other year, on this or any other· k 1 The S port,l i g ht ART SCHMITT football squad. mation to spring a surprise attac 1 gave the Lions two points via a on the Union College g·ridde1·s last I safety If today brings a victory, the Saturday, and as a result, the · . . . . The dynamo is revived up to Garnet can be said to have ·been Dutchmen left Baller Bowl losers In shOl't, lt was a dec1s1ve VICtory full power this week to cast one successful on its jaunt along the by a 21-0 score. The game' l ncov- for Lou Little's. c~arges, since fina:l final powerful beam on the rugged 1944 football h-ail. The conquest of E'red a crafty and deceptive quar- 'score and etatlst1cs gave them a features of Art Schmitt, end par the slide rule commandos from terback in the pet·son of Hem y mark.ed ed~e; It was the first con- excellence, play breake1 and pass across the creek is a \consumma- Stout, who ha:ndled the Lions on 1 te~t m which the Dutcht~en have snatcher. lion devoutly to be wished\ and. offense. Little's charges showeq fatled to taUy: In fac~, the1r attack The New Yorker's propensity for the thrill of joy that such a sue- the hand of a ma~ter at work, for seemed sluggiSh, leavmg those far;ts that authoritative handling 0f the cess will bring to each Dutchman eleven men played as one to give who. had watched. t\le sq~ad m enemy line springs from his long rooter will completely compensate the N. Y. squad an unbeatable com- earl!er contests a little bew1ldered,. experience as ~;me of \New Ycrk's for previous defeats. In 42 contests bination. for the same squad had tHrne~ in Ffii.est\; that's right-befm e his en- with the Trojans to date, the Union Columbia made its first taHy late mu?h bet_ter performances :;tgaml:'t trance into the Navy, Art was a eleven has lost only 7; the average in the opening stanza wnen line then· earlter f?es. _Art Schmttt per- policeman potnding· a beat along is manifestly indicative of Dor- plays, Hunter and Mol'gan cany.ing, formed well m h1s left . end role. the sidewalks of tl1e Little Flower's pian superiority through the years. brought the ball to the 1 foot lhi.e. George Morrow turned In a very stronghold. With ambitions con- Why not continue the habit in to- Hank Stout went over on a quar- fine performance at gt:.ard, a spot tinuing along the same line, the Jay's tilt? ter.back sneak; Morgan converted, which is a . new one to the 165 22-year-old Smitty hopes oome day It can be done, for the team is and Columbia led 7-0. pound Albaman. to be a member of the F.B.I., need- solidly set, ready to do a great job Union's only re~l threat was nulli- Although the Garnet did come out less to say, he will be one of the and bring home the bacon to Coach. fled by a clipping penalty. Pete on the short end of a 21-0 score, it best. Coming from a naturally athletic family-two brothers, both well over six feet, made well known reputations as high school stars, Art first blossomed af' R gridder at Union's Battling Dutchmen Mel. who certainly deserves the best the boys can bring him. But it's a darned hard job to crack that for- ward wall, spill enemy interference and stop a full back of battlewagon proportions when the stands be- hind you are about as noisy as the Library at midnight. With rooting on the part of the fans-sincere, assuring encouragement - the re- sults of today's fray will make any man V-12 or civilian, proud of the team that represents him. Scrimmages through the week hnve bePn morf' ~trength-taxing and thorough than any to date, with the emphasis on basic essgntlals: blocking, run-downs, under punts, and down-field tackling. With the exception of Horace 1 Lightning Legsl Edwards, who last week took a severe clawing from the Columbia Lion, the squad is in tip-top condi- tion. Ed expects to be in shape f<>r tomorrow's tilt, having been under the expert ministration of Com- mander Case during the earlier part of the week. Spezzano intercepted one of Hank 1 was the closest and m.ost bitterly Stout's passes and sprinted 54 yards fought contest that any Union. to the Lion 16 yard line only to squad has given the N. Y. club. have the play called back to the The showing of the eleven was Union 41 where the clipping offenee nothing to deride, for it is a pretty had taken place. On the next play good bet that every Columbia Murchison intercepted a pass and player who faced the Dutchmen the Lions were on their way. knew he had been in a ball game The Lions tallied twice in the and that he had faced a foe whose second canto, the first of the two bl.ocks and tackles weren't \kid scores following a pass interception glove\ affairs, but were the result by Mel Murchison on the Gan;et 45!' of determinati~n o~ the part of yard line. Hall and Hunter p!Cl{ed, each man to g1ve h1s best. L p 35 yards on two shots at the I -----a---- line. Hunter hi~ center on the next I CHAPI<~RONES play and regl~'tered touchdown · · number two. The third Lion touch-~ The chaperones for this season's down was one which might never Gridiron Ball, in case you haven't have come about were it not for noticed, Dr. and Mrs. Dixon Ryan the new Eastern Intercollegiate Fox, Lieut. and Mrs. Franz B. An- rules which allows the defensive dreen, Captain and Mrs. Joseph S. club to pick up a fumbled ball and Evans, Mr. and Mrs. Neil Marvin, run with it. Bob Brubaker was hit Mr. and Mrs. Harold Rowan, Mr. very hard by George Gilbert and and Mrs. Joseph Sewards and Mr. Left Tackle Bob Heller. The ball and Mrs. Frank Litras. was janed from his grasp, rolled Things are going fine and as yet free and was picked up by Smith, the chaperones are smiling. Just Columbia's right taclde, who gal- Wait!! loped 35 yards for a touchdown. ---------------- Wrinkles Scram! Every Arrow Tic has a special resili· ent lining that makes wrinkles disappear over· night, helps you tie perfect knots every time. See our new Arrows today- as handsome a bunch of ties as you've sel!n in a month of Sunday-go-to meetin's. and ]50 Nusbaum's New York's Richmond Hig·h, where he was a letter man holding down the end spot. There, too, he was a diamond king, a mainstay of the nine at the hot corner. The latter talent eviuenced itself during the few months previous to this grid- iron season as tbe incomparable Art won game after game, not only with the sheer pow·3r of his stick- work as well, bringing ·his platoon to the intranmral softball league championshi.p last June. Smitty signed up as one cf Uncle Sam's Bluejackets in November, !942. When he was tra:nsferred to Union in March of 1944 he had been stationed in Alaska a<> an Aviation Metal Smith's Mate 3/e. Now work- ing as a deck candidate, he wiH ~omplete his comse ln July, 1945. His greatest experience to date he rates his defensive work in the fi·rst RPI ga:me. Recalling the sec- ond quarter of the fray, we remem- bered how, on six consecutive ·plays, the dynamic Art broke through to dLmp enemy ball carriers for sub- stantial losses. Art might well be called the It on Man of the Dutch- men. Out of four games before today's, Art has played a full sixty minutes of three of them, missing only a few minutes of the other. Arrow has a new wrinkle on wrinkles A special resilient lin· ing in Arrow Tie~ fights off wrinkles - smooches them out overnight. Try one and 5ee for yourself! You'll find lots of tasty new patterns in Arrow Ties at your Dealer's. ARROW TIES With the teamwork and experi- ence gained from long pre-season practice sessions and in actual play during the past month, tbe team is confident of the outcome of conflict this afternoon. Only time will-and the story it will tell will be a jubilant, satisfactory one -if the stands are jammed with fans giving the squad the encour- agement it so richly deserves. The only other scoring came about early in the second half when Bob Heller broke throcgh the Union line and blocked Don Matick's punt. Matick and three Columbia players raced for the loose pigskin as it bounced about in the end zone. The Garnet back dived on the ball to avert a Colum- bia touchdown but nevertheless CHRISTMAS GIFT SUGGESTIONS Where Union Men Meet COLLEGE INN Phone 6-9767 BfST OF BEVERAGES ARE SOL.D 1526 Van Vranken Ave. Make the Most of Rationing Use More SEAL TEST HOMOGENIZED VITAM IN D MILK \ Phone 4·3121 JL.----·----· ... --- ·r- ·---------- ------------·- Books Calendars Leather Goods Personal Stationery ............. ,., ............ Our new line of Christmas Cards will be on sale starling Oct. 1 ... ......... ~ .......... Prom Favors Navy and College Sealed Jewelry Felt Dogs We'll have your Prom fickefs for sale until Oct. 6 - UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE - NORTH WING of WASHBURN HALL .mlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll'r.l I its no W€ co: fa' Hi th• Th he Dll on· wi po. for we tUJ Ur. gir spc tr~ thE ra• Th fir: las tot ga· ] Re las 24: pu abl fin V3i Mi fin clo he• pi~ for Ch USl ha: on SCI do· reJ I C. .J thl ha ha an do: pli wi ta! fiv me rid J Sc thE thJ en· ha th: de·

a.s he he on ue to en on he to be SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1944 7 ------------------'------------------------------··----------~--- • Tod Harriers lop Engineers; Meet A ay X-Cou.ntry Sq.uad · FinisJtes Season Basketball Quintet T 0 In Return Clash! Union's Cross Country team ran its final meet of the year this after- noon against RPI but at press time we did not know the r·esults of the contest in which Union was highly favored. Face Strong Opposition On December 2, the 1944-45 ver-~·----~-------­ This afternoon's contest was Art Highland's last chance to break the course record here at Union .. The chances are pretty good that he has done it beca1.:~;e against Dartmouth two weeks ago be was only 4 seconds off of the record with no competition from the op• posing harriers. Art was really out· for that record this afternoon and we hope he broke it. Last week's contest with RPI turned out to be a close win flor Union by a bare three point mar- gin, 26-29. In case some of you sports fans don't know, Cross .Coun- try meets are scored by counting the place each man takes in the race, the lowest score winning. Thus when Union men finished first, third, sixth, seventh and ninth last week, the Garnet tallied thei·r totals, or 26 while the Trojans gathered 29 .points. Highland finished the ruggell Rensselaer course in 24:49 minutes last week. The track record is 24:27; if there had· been anyone pushing him, Art would have been able to smash it. As it was he finished a good 400 yards in ad- va.nce of the nearest man. Hermie Bloom, the Quiz Kid of Middle Section, ran a fine race to finish third with Culver following close in sixth position. On Culver's heels was Ferguson in seventh place. Nosing out RPI's last man for the deciding points was little Charlie Matthews, running his usual steady race. sion of the Gamet basketbaU squad. will meet Colgate at the Alumni Gymnasium. The Ga-rnet squad has been sad- ly depleted by transfers, leaving Coach Jess Perltins without any veterans. At present, Jess is be- ing ably assisted by two of last year's squad-\Mule\ Haas and Miles Sherman. The former has been coaching the centers and the -latter the forwards. However. both these players are leaving on No- vember 1. The squad hac been working out regularly of late, and, through hard work, is slowly rounding into shape. It has been a tough job for Coach Perkins because of the green material. He had to start with the fundamentals and work up to the finer points. After rounding the squad into fairly good shape, Jess was dealt a tough blow when it was learned that Bob Lindsay, capable forward, Al Flanders, steady guard, Gil Oddo, former Mulhlenburg ,guard. Jack Post and Carl De Moraes are being transferred to other col- leges. Perkins was counting heav.ny on Oddo, Lindsay and Flanders. 13-Bates, Boston Garden 16-0olgaf:e, Hamilton 30-Hobart Jan. 3-Middlebury, Middlebury 6-Stevens, Hoboken 13-R. P. 1., Troy 19~Rochester, RochE>ster 20-Hobart, Geneva 27-Stevens Feb. 2-Trinity, HartfOl'd, Conn. 3~Wesleyan, Bl'idgeport, Conn. 7...,..Middi'ebury 10-R. P. I. A quiclt glance at the above schedule shows that the job which lies ahead fo1· the basketball squad is no menial task It is a Hercuean task, in fact. When one stops to realize that the ranks of the op- position boast such formidable clubs as Colgate. Columbia, Roches- ter and Wesleyan, it is easy to sym- pathize with Union's young mentor, Jess Perkins. It would be a hard job to expect good results with a. veteran quintet, but to hope for a terriftce season with not a single member of last year's squad re- mains, is indeed walking in the clouds. However, Garnet fans can be sure of one thing. Coach Jess Perkins will not fail to give them a hustling ball club, nor will Jess's players fail to give their all for him. Members of last year's squad are constantly remarking and re- peating that \When it comes to playing any sport under a coach, Je,:s Perkins is tops'\ If sheer hard work on the coach's part will do the job, Union will have an A-1 basketball club. ---0--- Track Coach Weepin' Willie Ketz has a faint suggestion of a smile on his face now and has decided to send Highland, Culver and Mattson down to New York in November to represent Union in the forthcoming ICAAAA meets there. The players who have worked well so far in scrimmages are Al Dingly, forward from Cohoes; Bill Fischer, who played with Middle- bury against the Garnet last year; Paul Clapp, versatile forwavd from Ramsay, N. J.; Bm Baker, for- ward from MHne High .School in Albany; Dick Donahue, cente1· from Clarkson Tech; Roger Stur- tevant, 6 foot, 4 inch center; John Van Deusen, scrappy center; \Nel- lie\ Wray. guard from Brooklyn Poly; Roy Woolsey, guard from Garnet News Troy, N. Y.; Joe Hoffman, guard who transferred here from Har- vard; John Godfrey, guard; Phil Ziffer, forward from Nott Terrace, and Adam Filipowski, forward. After the most successful season that any Union athletic squad has had in quite a while, the Garnet harriers can hang up their shoes and relax for a while. They've done a fine job and are to be com- plimented for the determination with which they stuck to their tasks. It's no fun to sweat out five gn:eling miles on a hot sum- mer day, being chased by a cigar riding a bicycle. A few players are ex:pected to come out for the squad as soon as the footba:ll season ends. They are Art Schmitt, Jack Schrieber, and Pete King. Practice, which ended for the exam period on Thursday night with a scrimmage, will .be resumed. November 3. The schedule: Dec. 2-Colgate 8-0olumbia By now many of you have re- ceived your copy of the Garnet. On Thursday evening, Editor Dave Cohen and Circulation Manager Sandy Hollander distributed the first batch of 247 Garnets to five Navy Dormitories. In view of the limited number of copies available, it was decided to pick the names of five dorms from a hat and these were to receive the first copies. Both Navy and Civilian Dorms were eligible for this raffle. It is expected that the remaining copies of the Garnet will be on hand and ready for distribution by Monday or Tuesday of next week. A lot of credit is also due to Eric Schmertz and Bill Webster for their job of managing the squad through all its ups and downs. The entire Cross Country organization has turned in a record this year that brings some light out of the depths for Union's sports fans. SCHENECTADY'S ORIGINAL CHINESE RESTAURANT CHINA INN ,., ......... ......,........,.. ... Specialists in Chinese and Americ:crn Cooking Buy War Bonds LUNCHEONS from $.55 FULL COURSE DINNERS from $.75 314 STATE ST. PHONE 6-9530 ............ -\ ... ... ... .... ,..,.. .... \\\ ... Have a \Coke\= Welcome back • ._.,--=- , . or giving a returned soldier a taste of home There's an easy way to make a soldier on furlongh feel right at home. It's to offer him refreshing Coca-Cola. Have a \Coke\ is always the hospitable thing to say. In many lands overseas, as in your own living room, Coca-Cola stands for the par1se that refreshes, -has become a happy symbol of hospitality, at home as every· where else. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA·COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. It's natural for popular names to acquire 'friendly abbrcvia· tions. That's why you hear Co~a·C'.Alla ~ailed \Cok:c\ ~ Jess Perkins, Popular Instructor, ToLeadGarnetCagers Once More Jess Perkins started his career in$-----------------:---------------- the village of St. Johnsburg, Vt., in 1916. He spen-t the early years of his life in the Northern woods. At the age of six, his family moved to West Springfield, Mass., where he attended the local grade .and high schools. ·It wa.s here that Jess started his athletic career. After being inactive in his fresh- man year because of school rules, he came into his own, spending two years on the football squad as a halfback. In his second year he was a member of the varsity eleven. He was also a member of· the varsity soccer team, winning his letter as a center forward. During the winter months, the young coach spent three years an the basketball squad playing both guard and forward. Perkins spent one year on the junior varsity be- fore brushing into the big time. He also found timo> for a year of var- sity hockey. When spring rolled arot:nd, Jess went out for the baseball squad. After he had the first string catcher's job sewed up in his sec- ond year of high school, disaster befell him. He split the third fin- get• of his left hand, thus incapaci- tating him for the diamond sport. But his love for competition was too great and he went out for the track squad. He started running the 440 and, after winning his first interscholastic race, Iemained unde- feated in the 440 and 880 through- out his three years of varsity com- petition. In his senior year, Jess was captain of the track squad. Then came one of the greatest honors bestowed on him, wh'en at g1·aduation in 1934, he w.as voted the Outstanding Athlete of the Senior Class. In the fall of 1934, he entered Springfield College on a scholastic scholarship. During his freshman year, he was member of the soccer, basketball and track teams, earning his letter in all three sports. Dt:ring the next year, 1935-36, Jess had to remain out of school and work in order to make enough money for his further education. He returned to Springfield in the fall of 1936 and was ineligible for spotts competition dut·ing the term. In those two remaining years he gained two letters in basketball, two ·in track, two in soccer and one in cross-country, The soccer team on which Jess played center-forward were Nation- al Champions in 1937 and New Eng- land Champions in 1938. The young New Englander hope- ful received his degree as a phys- ical education major in 1939. Shortly after his g1a.duation, he got the job as Assistant Physical Director of the Albany Y.M.C.A., where he remained until 1940, when he v. as transferred to the Schenec- t:ldy Y .M.C.A., assuming the same J.'u~:iUon. Jen came to Union in the fall of 1942. being employed to coach sV' 1rnming, teach wrestling, and do general physical education work. He took over the coaching of the Union Swimming Club during the winter of 1942. This was entirely his own initiative, because college authorities had decided to drop the sport. Jess arranged his own sched- ule and used his own free time to pr<~cllce. Then came the fall of 1943, the Garnet had a good basketball schedule arranged, had ample mar terial, but were minus a coach. Jess stepped in and took the job .. He took a green squad with only I one veteran and moulded a very scrappy quintet. Breaks went 1 against them all year and the Gar- i net ended up with but four wins. However, Jess put a hard fighting, \never say die\ club on the com t, a club which reflected his spirit. In the spring, the quiet mentor helped' out \Weepin' Willie\ Ketz with the frack squad and they turned out a good squad. Again this fall Jess was out there help- ing guide the cross-country squad At present, J·ess is busy moulding his 1944-45 version of the Garnet basketball squad. After losing all of last year's squad, he had to start from .scratch by teaching funda- mentals. After· about a month's practice, the squad is beginning to look like a ball club. One quality of Jess' teams is very prominent- that is d1•ive. With a little help from incoming transfers, the Gar- net should have a formidable club. And now a line on Jess Perkins, the man. As you have probably notice he is a married man, having met his wife, the former Miss Jessie Hine, in Albany in the fall of 1939. He was married in June. 1941. At preseui, he is working on a research problem for Professor E. M. Ligon. It Is now in the experi- mental stage, but will eventually lead to his Master's Degree. Mal'ce an Appointment For A Blood Donation CLARK WITBECK CO. * QUALITY HARDWARE SINCE 1870 * 416-418 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Three Union Traditions • Victory The Over R. P. 1.! Cridiron Ball the VAN CURLER TAPROOM

8 MEET THE FLEET GlLODDO Gil Oddo, ex-Aerographer 1/c, claims New Jersey for his home state although his birth certificate, ~hows New York City. Ramsey, !Pop. 3500> and Ramsey Highi School ai·e just vague memories to: him now even thoL.gh fifteen of the· best years of his Ufe were spent there. He was captain of the ten-· nis and basketba-ll teams and spent his spare time as seniot· class presi- dent. After high school came Muhlen- burg College in Allentown, Pa., for a year !yes, he !mew Milo SewardsJ. October of 1941 saw Gil working in the Fedet·a:J Reserve Bank in New York City, fl wed by the vastness of \Vall Street. On Pearl Harber Day he was very complacently sit- ting in the Polo Grounds watching the Gi<llnt~ and the Dodger:> battle it out on the gridiron. Enlisting shortly after Dec. 7. Gil's first stop was Newport. R. I.. fot· boot training. After that camP Aerogmpher's School at Lakehurst. N. J. Oddo deems this one of the most important factors in his I ife becauo·e :oince then he has decided to make weathe1· war!;; and meteor- ology his peacetime !i\·e!ihood. :\iaval Air Station at San Dieg-o- was his next port-of-call. The Aero- f:!laphers weren't drawing flight pay but the~· were allowed to fly in patrol planes to Panama and some- times to Peal'! Harbor. Then came overseas orders and a seventeen day trip on a crowded transport that Gil says h~ will long remember. After a brief tour of duty on one of our Ia! ger carrien· he was transferred to Henderson Field on Guadalcnnal. The next six months were crowded and h<>c- tic; living conditions and chow ·was very much below par and the Japs did as much as they could to make life uncomfortable with bombings and shellings. From Gt adalcanal. Gil began to tly on night operation- al mis>'ions in PBY's with the fa- mous Black Cat Squadron. Their main task on the miesion was spot- ting Jap shipping and hal assing enemy installations all through the many islands of the Centra·! and Northern Solomons. In July of 1943 when we started our first offensive measure in the Pacific, Gil's weather group was sent to Munda on New Georgia to establish a weather station on the newly conquet·ed air strip. l\lishap Number One accurred when the LCI on which Gil was heing transferred was sunk by enemy bombers. Gil lost all his gear when it went down. Fot·tunately, all aboard were able to get to shore safely when they heard the air raid siren. To quote Gil: \The first couple of weeks on MLnda were rough, C- l'ations. K-rations and almost con- stant harassing f1 om Jap ·planes and artillery.\ In October of 1943 Gil brgan to fly opei·ational flights again, this time with a group 0f Army B-24's. At this time> he> and half a dozen other areographers were given persona'! citations from .'.iajor General Twinning for volun- t:u·ily pal'ticipating in aerial mis- .-;ions ag-ainst enemy isntallatios. Sho1·t1y after Chl'i~tmas Gil was re- lieved and sent to New Caledonia for a rest. From there he was sent to Union for V-12 training. He has just been notified of his coming transfer to C\'HT for furt·her train- ing in Aerology. Gil lists as his closest call a nat- row e~'cape he had on Munda. He had been hospitalized for malaria and was in a field hospital when the area was being shelled. One shell hit the hospital killing two men and wounding eight more out of twPlve men there. Gil was one of the two that came out of it un- harmed. Among his dubious claims to fame a1·e dancing with Rita Hay- wm·th at the Hollywood Canteen arid kissing Lt. Col. Jimmy Roose- velt'>' stomach. This last happened when Gil was being Initiated into the Royal and Ancient Order of Shellbac-ks and the President's son was in the role of King Neptune. ~~~-'!~-~~w~:.e 0 ~e 1 ~!lw<l from I The C o n c o r d ~- staff wishes to announce that this will be the last issue for the present term. The first issue for the next term will come out on November lOth. July 1942. until FPbrunry of this I yc.lr. At that time Lieutenant Hall : was re-assigned to the V-12 Unit at C\1t. St. Mary's College. When asked to comment upon his first impression of l:nion Col- lege. Lieutenant Hall replied in hi>< slightly Southern accent, \It's a grand old place, and I'm going- to enjoy it very much.\ There is a Hall family. consist- ing of Mrs. Hall and a bouncing baby daughter who answers to the name of :\1arynelle, but they are waiting further investigation into the housing shoi·tage in the fair city of Schenectady ---0----- Harpsic:hordian Thanks, fellows, fot· a term full of fun. See you in November! ····~·- ............................ \\'\\'\< SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1944 Emily Post ( Con't) Glance at Mr. ·r: MAKE-UP SCH.EDULE the comb and tooth paste she for- \Jackson \Mister T,\-just two got. of the affectionate a·nd popular MON•DAY, (i)CTOBER 9 Don't show an alive and interest- terms by which Jack Teagarden is 0830 ed manner toward the byos and in- known-was born in Vernon, Texas Ge1·man III-Prof. Coffin, Bailey difference towards the girls. <Ed.- August 20, 190~ · · · both his par- Hall, 111. Even if they <lire Union men.) ents were musJCal:ly talented : . . Mathematics IV-Prof. Burkett, Don't greet the chaperones as his 'father, in. the cotton busmess: Civil Engineering, 205. . though they were inanimate ob- pla:l' ed t~e t1 urnpet · · · mothel Mathematics 21b-Prof. Morse, jPrts upon wh0m vou need waste taught ptano and played the fit te, Civil Engineering. 205. tt t - · I trumpet, trombone, violin and I no a en 1on. . h' , t N · 0930 :Don't monopolize the bathroom. gmtar . . . iS sis er orma 1s a . . 1 DoH'l claim the bed you like best pianist. ?r0ther Charlie> a trumpeter Htstory I--Prof. Wamger, Bai· ey b throwin our ba on it. (Ed.- and ·Clots a drummer . . . at 7, Hall, 205. . Y . g y . g · . J·ack started lessons on the bari- Mathematics III - Mr. Harrell, AttentiOn, men, th-ts ap.phes to you, 1 tl ft th Civil Engineering 208 t > · tone . . . s wr y <li er, on e • · 0 ~on't refuse .to dance with who- trombone . a few years later he· 1030 ever cuts in. !·COI,Jld be a prof.) was accompanying his moti:er ~t CalcHlus II, III-Prof. Farrell, Don't lie on a sofa and refuse to the chut·ch organ and playmg. m Civil Engineering, 206. move because you have a headache. the to_wn band · · · ~t 13, Jack's Calculus I!I-Prof. Morse, Civil I 1645 Chemistry 21b - Prof. Hurd, Chemistry Laboratory, 104. TUES'DAY, OCTOBER 10 1345 Phyelcs I-Mr. Hoffman, Physics Laboratory, 202. Physics 1-Mr. Th0mpson, Phys- ics La·boratory, 202. Physics I-Mr. Bigsbee, Physics Laboratory, 202. Physics I-MI-. Pryor, Physics Laboratory, 202. ----0---- 'Papyy• Nagel And Chief •Mel' Leave !Ed.-The wolves gather fast in dad died and the famlly moved to Engineering, 210. th t ) Nebraska where Mrs. Teagarden Mathematics IV-Dr. Waltz, Civil Patty ~ake, patty cake-and li>e- ese par-s. . . · t · Don't complain because you are play~d pmno ac::ompammen s m a Engineering, 206. fore the strollie of midnight on the cold a-nd bt:ought the wrong clothes. movie house assts~ed by Jack , . . 1130 lOth, John Francis Nagel, Phm 2c, \Ed.-This is Schenectady, you when J.ack was ln, they moved ~o Economics II - Prof. Benn.ett, alias \Pappy\ will be leaving. k l San Antomo whet e the talented kid \Pappy\ has been ordered to an n~:~-t be jealous of every atten- joined his first orchestra, a four- Bailey Hall, 204 · advanced Pharmacist's Mate school tion your best friend pays to an- piece combo that moved f.rom on~ 1345 at Portsmouth. \Pappy\ is one of other girl. (It's either the \Old roadhouse to an?ther . . . after Calculus I-Prof. Snyder, Civil the six: men chosen from all over p . t-R mover\ or the man-power three years of th1s, Jack moved on Engineering, 205. the coun-try :flo 1 • this school. All :mt e) ' to Chicago and a job with \Red\ Chemistry Ila-Dr. Naughton,· the rest are also from V-12 sick s or age. _____ 0 ___ _ Nichols in the company of euch Chemistiy Laboratory, 201. bays. presently famoL s names as Benny Geology I-Prof. Smith, Geology Nagle, now 34, served in the Goodman, Pee Wee Russell and Laboratory, 24. Merchant Marine for two years in Gene Krupa . . . wrth Nichols, History II-Prof. Bronner, Bailey: his younger days, but soon took· up Chow HaH. ana a portion of the Jack discoveved himself to be a 1 Hai-l, 201. . nu-rsing as a profession. He has game was hea1:d by thP G!'Aduate good blues :singer ... after a ·spell History II--Prof. \Vainger, Bailey bee11 a male nurse for 10 years now Council, which met in Hale House in the Mid-West, the ambitious 1 Ha.Jl, 205. in the some of the best hospitals UCRS CCon't.) Lounge dminJ? the aftt;mo?n. . young Mi~ter \T\ headed for New Mathematics IV-Prof. Chillrud, in New Yot·lt City. The phone m Mr. G1ven s O~Ice York and a spot with Ben Pollack's I Civil Engineering, 205. He joined the Navy and took in Washburn Hall was used durmg fame<.! c 1 ew . _ . following five ~Iechanics <Sophomore) -- Prof.: ··boots\ at Sampson. Union first the p1·ogra~ to mrrl{e checok. calls\ ;,-ears of this. Jack succumbed to a\ Sayre, Civil Engineering, 107. , saw his shining countenance on to Ba·l~e1· Fteld to report q~aht_y of tempting offer from Paul White-, Navigation Ia - Prof. Rhodes,, Mtu:ciJ 1, 1944, but since then many receptiOn and suggest Imp! ove-~ man to star as a vocali8t and trom- Civil Engineeting, 205. · have felt his blows while on the ment. . . . bonis! . . . he left the Dean of 1 Thermodynamics - Prof. Sayre, rub-down table. TI:~ last br·oadea.~tm~ acti.Vlty by Modem American Music in 19_39 to Civil Engineering, lOi. \Pappy\ says he's going to miss Station UCRS fOI th~s _telm was I organ-ize his own orchestra. p1cked only two things when he leaves the play-by-pl_ay descrtptwn of the from the many outstanding instr·u- . 1«5 . . here,-good liberty, and Betty! RPI game this a_ftemo0n. The reg- mentalis!t' who eagerly flocked to M~the~at1cs III-Dr. Waltz. C!vll. Pappy claims his wife understands ular schedule Will _be resumed as his banner . . . with this talent, Engmeermg, 211. him so everything is all right. soon as it is possible to get . the his name and distinctive style. World Literature-Prof. Coffin, Also leaving Union is Chief Mel staff reorganized next term . .Smce their success has been certain from Bailey Hall, 111. Ogborn. Mel iS a veteran of many several staff me_mbers are being the start . . . after almost two 1545 years in the Navy and has seen tl'U~sferr~d, constdel'Uble reor?an. 1 : years of one-night stands the coun- Naval History-Prof. Doty, Bailey. action in all parts of the world. His zatwn will b~ _n_eeded, but It 18 try over. Jack arrived in Holly- Hall, 210. only faHlt is that he is very, very hoped that actlvltJes will be started wood ... where his band supplied German I--Prof. Coffin, Bailey bashful. He won't even reveal his on Monuay. November 16. the music for the Paramot nt pic- Hall, 111. destination when he leaves here. ---o ture \Birth of the Blues\ . . . in SCMS ( Con't1 which he shared billing with Bing Crcsbr. Mary Martin and \Roches- ter\ . . . then they 1·eturned east to New York and Chicago, where they enjoyed a lengthy stay at the Sherman Hotel ... with ten broad- casts a week over NBC . . . de- spite the fact that he had \arrived\ as a big-name leader, Jack still gets his greatest \kicks\ playing his slidehorn .. a big, heavy-set fel- low, he likes to exercise as much as pososible . prefers golf and swimming . . . finds city life more to his liking than country . . likes to tinker with mechanical gadgets and toy locomotives You're Sure to Like the UNI9UE CAFE and GRILL DOMESTIC AND IMPORTED WINES AND LIQUORS Besf of Seer Always on Draft 150 NORTH BROADWAY JUST ABOVE STATE march again with a grand total of thirteen grand women. We don't know where they got them but the gil·!s must know what they're doing. A couple local belles lead the list in the fo1ms of the Misses Carol Chestnut and Marian Elmendorf; on the baU from Ballston Spa is Misso Ardiss Swan; we wantagh in- troduce Miss Ruth Sellman from Wantagh, L. I.; coming over on a Trojan horse we saw Miss Kay Shar!1ey from Troy; Island hop- ping ac1·oss the Mohawk ha.• come Miss Marporie Memelo of Scotia; a corny crack is due for Schenec- tady's Miss Joan Korn; Bigtimer Miss Dorothy Schaeffer has dropped in from New York for the week- end; corning in by dog-sled from the wintry north country is Miss Helen Serfis of Northville, N. Y.; a couple more Schenectadylites who will shine in all their beauty are Miss Lorraine Malo and Miss Min- nie Craig; a capital laes from a capital city is Miss Roxann Becl1er of Albany; completing the roster is Miss Rita Donahue from the frigid wastes of Saratoga, the home of Pete's and the Colonial. Once A Year On .Sunday, October 8. :\Hss Yella Pessl. noted \Lady of the Harpsi- chord,\ will begin a series of r~­ citals over radio station WBFM. This :;>eries will consist of ten re- citals to continue thi'Oughout Oc- tober on Sunday, Wednesday, and Thn-sday evenings from 8:30 to 9:00. Tickets to the broadcast are free, and anyone wishing to attend should call radio station \VGY to make reservations. The recitals will be vet·y informal and MisSJ Pessl will be glad to answer any questions from the studio audience. WE'RE FOR UNION l 00°/o THE CRIDIRON BALL STYLES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY $6.50 to $12.00 PATTON & HALL X·RAY FITTING * * SCHENECTADY IMPORTING COB 85 Van Guysling Avenue 4-8049 Schenectady EnCJraving Co. Engravers For The Concordiensis 147 Jay St. Phone 4-9002 ------- i I I Every Day the ' 245 State St. for 50 Years ! I Homogenized Vitamin D or Regular Milk • Cottage Cheese e Buttermilk e Sour- ed Cream • Dari-Rich Choc- olate Drink e Freshway Orange Drink e Fresh Eggs AMSTERDAM DAIRY 315 Clinton St. Phone 6-2351 THE GAZETTE PRESS Printers SCUTTLEBUTT ' ~--- I ! I I I v I j j ( 1 tt A s~ ci hi Yl ot Oj ft u r II il v c f a 4 .., tl e c c a a d s t