\/ I(' '_ I I I I I· '. \ • • t ; ~ HOORAH WELCOME FRESHMAN HOME HATS DUTCHMEN The Student Newspaper of Union College VoD. LX~IV, No. 1 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1946 Price 1 Oc 130 Frosh Attend Pilot Knob Camp; 350 Register; SCD Rules Announced ~- --- -----·-- -- --·-·- - ··-- -----~ Sophomores Reveal Freshman Regulations; 4-Day Camp Orients First Group Largest C:la ss Is Sta-rting New Semester Heading the list .of the largest Freshman ClaSJS to enter Union Coll.ege in her 152 years of exist- ence are the names· of d·irect de- sce-ndants of two of the original founders of the college. Dirk Ro- meyn, founder of the Schenectady Academy, is represented by his col- 1ateral descendant, Dirk Romeyn, while First President Elipha'et Not t':J G1 eat-great-great-grandson. Clarkson Nott Potter is also among the 336 asphants who registerPd at Alumni Gym on Wednesday. Student from the greatest dis- tance automatically becomes Arne Ole Fretheim from Blaaker Sta- Hon, Norway with second place al- lotted in Leslie Joseph Canez of Pot. t au Prince, Haiti. Vets Number High Th\ veteran ranks predominate t~1e inL-uming class as 191 former ~crVH.:e u .. cn, exclusive of t~ansfer studeni.s, f1olll at least 10 stat<·~ \\e.e adwitted. The remaining- 145 Fre:;luuen are civiiian mc·n from thto g,• auuating cla,;ses of high schuo.s and ptep schools. The fot ty tran:;fcr students, while technically not Freshmen, s .. dl the entering ranks to 376. < hese nwn come from such varied ~alleges au Cornell, Temp·e, Idaho, ~t..S.O<l univen;ity, Fordham, and .LJ!UL\''outh. The majority of them a e veterans. Incomplete reports indicate that there are students ftom the states O< i>i·ew Jersey, Pennsylvania, Con- necticut, Massachusetts, Maryland, Vennont, Ohio, Florida, Il.inois, w1th the largest representation from New York state. ... wte1nities are expected to have a field day when the pledge date . tTives in December since some .ort; of the novices are legacies to ... e various campu~ houses. Of the Ic ,ades, there are 19 civilians and t::\e rest veterans. Virtual.y every f aternity is represented in the list. Record Promising T!le class of 1950 has a past rec- o.·d which portends much for the future of Union College activities, ·The number of potentially fine ath- letes is large-many of the Frosh are already proving their worth on th.e gridiron as Mel Hein's cha~ges rehearse for their opener aga1nst St. Lawrence University on Sep-. tember 28th. The other activities may expect a transfusion of new blood if the, as y.et, untabulated re- sults of the activities interest sheets are to be believed. The spirit evidenced at Freshman Camp promises much from 'the first year men. The Freshme? showed much interest in the van- ' ous speeches ·given by upper-class members of the campus organiza~ tions. If all indications ar.e true, Union College may expect to see big things from the class o~ 1950. In !IJII likelihood, if the men l!ve up to their advance notices, they should set . high standards for fu- ture y.ears. ----,o---- ' American Association Of University Women Faculty and student wives who are eligible and interested in join- ing the local chapter of the. Am?r- ican As£ociation ol' Umvers1ty Won en are asked to communicate with Mrs. JJ. Harry Ad\mS 1638 Wendell Avenue, phone 2-20~2. -.---0 VosburCJh Appointment Set Dr. dharl'es H. Vosburgh, retired principal of the JamaicJ. Hi~b Schbol, has been appointed chair- man Of the preparatory schools committee ,of the Union College Gtaduate Council, it was an- nounced by Dickinson E. Griffith of Low'l'ille, president of the coun- cil. Photo by EYan TiiPhnrcls. '50 The fullowing ruies v.et·c cstab-! :\lore than 1'0>0 Ftl' :hnll'n of the lished by the Sophon:o1 e Discip- Class of 1950 attl'nded the fits! iinary Committee tor all Ft·eshn•an. . · Freshman will obset ve theo<' rules !JJSt-war Freshman Camp at Ptlot untH the Ohtistmas recess. Knob, :-;ew Yorl{, ftom SeptPmber l. You ale to wear your Fteol!- .6 thtcttgh th· 1(1, n·viving a FrPsh- man Cap at all times within the :man 01 iL•ntat'on featun• that had limits of t:he City of SchenecLdy, 1 been dut:nant oir.cP 191~. Al\\ except on Sundays. 1 pn:scnt Well· twenty-thtr<' upper- 2. You ate tu speak tu all Ul;Jl<:l : !as~:1:en ant~ \ 'at;:<' ;;roup ,,f classn.en and faculty nwncbets you faculty I'PJHt'sPnt~t !vt'S wl-o epn;pd meet on the campu:; or in the \i- as ad\·i,·ors and lecturer>' from the cinity. various de pal tments. 3. You are not to walk en the Freshman Camp was under the College lawns nor on the Cppct- <lit·rction of A,,.;i\tant to !'be D<'nn Cla..s \Valk between Bai'ley HaH \\'i:.fer Kt•lz ar·d R<\x~onl G. :\T< on, and the P:;i Upsilon How;e. \hile tlw !{itclwn wn,., undPr the 4. You arc to remain se~ted· in dit e~ton,hip of Albert K. Hill. who daily Chapel until the upper-class- was assisted by Jac,:es A. Eanr. men have left the building. Thi,; 'rtu;-> i~ in n\\or·c]3n~,.. with 5. You are to leal n all the Col- lhC' old rac:'p which alwrn' harl liege :;cngs and cheets nnd be p!P- hotr \ !a\tt't~· nn•l a <tur!Pnt d'1·r·, I ;Jaicd to lccite them at thP !Ctp!r>'t t~>: \'.ilh ottli'P;-:1> lcP!pir~ to r.'nin- of an U!J!Jt.I·Cla:-~n:an tni'n thP h(l-.:t f0~-:jh]f> ~(lr\\[r'(> :n 6. You ate to acqu: int yotn·,~lf trf' tr.~o,·.J1all \\ith the Culh·ge tJadition~ ar.r! 111·· ThP ,-~:lff fo1 the r·1'1'P \\' tory as cutlined in the Fre,hrr.an I ~m·:r~r! dming tlcP >u:-nn·pr wit'• Handbook and at the Frrshrr.nr: ]Pt\r:> h .. !ng n·ai'Prl t•> ~~~ \':lrinu> Olicntation Lectutes. You are to be fratPrnit!Ps ard at'ti\'it:o> rrp:~~C'ntn prepared to recite this know!Pdg£> th·po :n r-nkr to ~~~urP a ,. i,', upon request. dbtr:h:tt!\n of positions a\\li!:t~•!P 7. You are to attPnd all F1 P<h· l'n<lP! tht• old camp nr. · n ,. ,. · man Oticntation Lretutc>': nrl othPr · thi> \\:·\ u\unlly rlorP <•a:ly i:: t11 events at which your attC\ndnnce i~ j<·at· with thC' Stucll'nl Din· ·t .. : required. being appointed sometime dur'ng 8. You are to >it and chPH in th(' pre\·ious falL Di:p·to· Krt · the Frcshn:an Blor at nil Athletic !Ja, nnrounced nat plan> :· 1 ·,. contests. :1lrPady b(':ng :aid to l'C\'el't to th'• All upper-cla~smen are re~pon- \> stPm. sible fur repo1 ting \'iolotions of thC' Alth1 ug.h Fr,.s!Jr.:\n ca:: 1 , 1 : :JhO\'P rpgulntions to tl-:P !'1cphorrolf IJ<';:an ln>'l Ft iclay l'lrr·:; , .. _,· Disciplinary Committee. The Ccrr.· he gun in p1 qoarat:o,-: fo ~· \ n:ittee will adjudge suitahlP punish· nen uv.-J two and n 1 al: :-r.ent for infr~ctions. b('for<'. Pre-c:1mp w::s 1 ::n 9. Fres:1rr.en are net to 'ntf'J' thr :;\acuity Din'ctor Ket;: and Dire t 1 Scuttlebutt until 1:00 P. ::'IL They :\loon with the a H. of \\'i La may use thf' >nack bar dm ing- th<' Jam.-,on. Joseph Har:ro~. J:~ mornings situated in HalP House. :::nnr, and Harri\c n Culver. , 0 .,; 10. Freshrr.en are r.ot to W<'~I ing was done b~· !\Irs. ~:abe: K t high school ldter s of any kind or.· ·' ith the aid of :\Irs. Tiexfo d ~~ , carr. pus or in the City of Schenec- Freshn,en anived on Thu', t!a tady. afternoon and evening n'ld Fr!cl:J: 11. Freshmen r re nat throw .morning on the college ca:npus and refu~e cf any ldr.d upcn the campus left emoute for P:Iot Kncb b) bt:, and are to \strip\ all cigarette aniving there in time for lunch. butts. Following this ttey were rushed o into various div:sion meetings after C V Brown G •IVeS setting up camp in the tents and · • • bunk house and closed the after- cha .pel S\\'hedule noon with starting a series of inter- PILOT KNOB WEEKEND .,. bunk athletic contests in football, 45 Appointed to Faculty Will Teach All Courses Th~ fall schedule of Un!on Col- baseball, and basketbal' set up b~ T A \d • 0 • • lege Sunday chapel services was an- Athletic Director Fred·erick Wyatt. 0 I . 1ft r1enfaf10R nounced by Dr. c. Victol' Brown, The day closed with a speech by cha-::lain. The non-denominati-onal Dr. Benjamin Whittaker, the sing- The first Freshman Handbook to services, beginning at 1l :OO :J'clock ing of Pollege soqgs, and the serv- be published in four years was each Sunday morning in the Me- ing of cocoa issued to the Class of 1950 by the rrorial Ch~pel. are open to the pub- Saturday was highlighted by Delphic Socie-ty last Thursday eve- lie. They are broadcast by station talks given by representat:ves of ning at the second in a series of WGY beginning at 11 : 15 _ the major campus extra-curricular Freshman Guide Dr. Carter Davidson, President~-----------­ ,f the College, has announced' the ppointment of 48 men and one ·oman to the· F'a-cu~ty for the ':hool year of 1946-4 7. All gener<> l :!visions of study are represented n the appointments, which were tecessitatecl by the large expansion •f the stud.ent body. The new appointees come from 1any branches. of life to assume heir professorial status at Union. 3ome are direct from the staffs of other institutions, some from the armed forces, some from the world of business, and a few come direct- ly from undergraduate courses. Unique in the neV)' pedagogues is Mrs. Margaret K. Stevens, former psychometric· ·examiner for the Schenectady schools system. Mrs. Stevens is thE> wife of Dr. Howard E. Stevens, associate professor of -nechanical engineering at R.P.I. She formerly taught at Waterford High SchooL did psychological test- ing at Albany Hospital, and work in remedial r:eading at Russell Sage College. Mrs. Stevens, together with Dr. Charles A. Godcharles, pr. Rex M. Coiiiei', Mr. Rich!J.rd S. Doty, Mr. Mervyn M. Mot!Se, and Mt\ Joseph R. Bogle wiH work with Dr. Ernest .M. Ligon in the Psy- chology Department. Union Men Return An outstanding .featur,e of the. Freshman ori.entation leetures. The The .services are ccnducted by activities in the morning and an mass addition is the number of work W<!.S sponsored by the Delphics the Rev. Dr. Brown and by Dr .. address in the evening on the ft:a- Union men who have returned to and edited by Albe1 t K. Hill, with Carter Davidson, president of Union ternity system by Dr. Fredericlt the college to teach. Besides the. the assistance of James A. Baar, College with Dr. Elmer A. Tid- Bronner. Athletic contests were r.eturn of several f-ormer Faculty during the summer of the current marbh at the organ and directing continued throughout the afternoon members, President Davidson has year. the ccllege choir. Guest preacher and competition became sharp, one announced the appointments of at The publication of a Handbook of all denominations deliver the ser- team losing a baseball game 30 to 4. least eight former students to the for the Class of 1950 by a student n:ons. Chapel services were held on teaching ranks. Mr. William T. group marks a change in a campus Pre chets· during the fall will be: Sunday morning by Chap~ain C. V. Winne, '34, will assume an assistant policy which has existed since 1 g 36 September 22. Chaplain c. Victor Brown with a prayer being offe:ed professorship in the Biology De- holding to the ruling· that Fresh- Brown; September 21l. PresiCent by dRexf~rd Moon and a scripture partment .. Mr. Marshall C. Yovits, man Handbooks would be edited Carter Davidson; October 6, Rev. rea ing Y James Baar. The day '44, has been as<signed to the by the Administr tion. Such work Rayrrond B. Bnigg, First Unitarian was terminated by after dinner Physics Department. Mr. Joseph b Off' A Soc 1 'ety, M1 'nneapolis, Minn., Oct. 13, talks by President Carter Davidson was handled y the 1ce of d- d D E Finltelstein, cited by Dr. Joseph D. miss<ions. Rev. Douglas Horton, Minister of an r. < rnest M. Ligon. Doty, chairman of the department the General Council, New York The traditional Buck Mountain of history, as one of the outstand- This year's publication is, al- City: Oct. 20. Chaplain C. Victor Expedition was held rega,rcUess of ing history majors to have at- though highly ext>mplary, some- Brown; October 27, President Henry foreboding weather conditions on tended the college, will teach in what modest in comparison with P. v~ nDusen. Union Theological the next to last day of camp with the history department. Electrical the Handbook which once was pre- Seminary, New York City; Noverr.- a somewhat belated noon day meal Engineering students will meet sented to th.e inComing Union Col- ber 3, Ptesident Russell Henty St-f_ being ser·ved by the upper-classmen. fom· Union men: in Messrs. Rudolph lege Freshman. AIU10ugh it con- ford, Hartford Seminary Founda- Monday night ·bunk »kits were held E. Slovacek, Edward R. Schiff- tains practically the same informa- tiQn, Hartfo1·d, Conn.; November 10, with first prize going to a tent ;naker, Thomas R. Hoffmart, and · tion on a much smaller scale such. ·Rev. C:1arles H. Cadigan, Ch1·ist presenting an elephan-t with kidney Gordon L. Mille 1 ·. Mr. George E. features as vieW!> of the campus,. 1 Chi.Il'Ch Cranbrook, Bloomfield Hills. trouble. Judges Pray. Farrell, and Hanson has returned to ·aid :F>ro- . separatE.' fraternity write-ups, ar- ·Mich.;. Nov(!mbe r 17. Dr. Clarence Wyatt deliberated at length before fessor E. s. c. Smith in the Geol'ogy I ticles on various organizations and P. Shedd, Yale Divinity School, New awarding a prize of tm~o boxe~ of :Lab. Mr. Frank S. Thyne will in- activities on campus are not to be Haven. Conn.; November 24, Chap- almond bars. struct in the English Department. 1 found. Also the manual is bound lain C. Victor Brown; December 1. Ralo. brought about a stoppage 1 with cardboard similar to those Chaplain Bradford S. Abernathy, I In efforts. on Tue~day to break Many Colleges Represented ' produced by the Administration 1 Rutgers University. New Bruns- camp fol'cJng a eontmgent of uppPr- The list of institutions at which I and not in garnet leather similar I wick N. J.; December 8, President classmen to remain behind while (Continued on Page 6) 1 <Continued on Page 6) Cart~r Davidson. <Continued on Page 6l

2 <lrnurnr FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1946 ers and said, \they couldn't ALL had ;literally been swept off het· have been that bad. I must have feet and she deduced that here was seen \Lost Weekend\ one too many ·real love at last. In preparation times.\ for the big event, June was busily Joe awo·ke fr-om his flights of. eng!).ged with a tire .pump, ready- nightmar.ish fancy at the muted ing herself to meet the criteria for ~!ember Associated Col· legiate P1·ess and distri- uutor of the Collegiate Dige:;t. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tioual Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Hepresentative, 4~0 Madi- wn A\'e., N. Y. C. Pub· !ished every Frida)\ of the ~chool year. \A Causa Persa Paro!e Assai\ F]diturial <Jff1ce, \\'a\hburn lla·ll, T:u!on College. Pull· li<'atioH urfice, '1 h~ Ua- zeHe P.tt.·s~. ~~4 State St. l·~lttered in the S~henet•­ Uul;o.- Post Office as See- illHl ClastJ 1\lail 1\fa tter. ,ulJ•eriptioll lUc a copy; $3 ,year; delivet·ed ar\yWlH?t'e in the l'nitetl State~. CE:dilor's note: This is the first of sound of a footstep near him. A co-eds which a popular cigarette a series of columns to be written gorge 0 us creature walked over to slogan had established. With her· by a number of students on var.i- him and questioned -in velvet tones, female paraphanaJ.ia all ln place, ~IANAGING BOARJJ ous topics. The writer of the cur- \Are you J.oe College?\ she hastened to join J·oe. J o~c]lh \\ IIIU\lllOIL .. , . . . . . . .. , , .. , . E •lltur-in· Chief ,Jiun•' .\, Hunr .....•.............. Jlunng·ing Editor lllnh! JI. Jlarltsun ...................... :'io\\s I•:•litor .\llH•rt [(, Hill., .... , .............. Sports Jo:ilHor .J\'''I>h I. IIHnstefn.,, .. , , ....... Bns!ne% ~lnna~t'l' llat'I'~ P. Hawlt••· ............ ('irt•nlation ~Inuu~er t·ent column will \tag\ another stuc Our hero leaped to his feet and Joe was 0verjoyed that night dent at the end of his column and b J when June agreed to accept his pin the latter wiH be r·esponsib. le l!or excla·imed, \You must :. e une . , , Boy, am r glad to .see YOU!\ as a token of Joe's eternal devo- . ftlling this column in the following Uon to her, His hcnds were all issue of The Concordiensi11. A man After carrying on the necessarY thumbs as he fumbled with the may be \t\·gged\ wt\th a song tt\·tle tete-<;·tete ·as a preliminary, they set h d 1 h ld h u catc · an at . ast e· the s ining or left to P. topic of his choosing, off to enjoy a ni'ght that was .to symbol of gold in his hand. Joe If he . 15 · \tagged\ with a song tt\tle prove highly eventful for b<Jth of d . lecne toward June and prepared WELCOME For the sevent~·-first time in the histoQ· cf Union College, it is the CONCORDIENSIS' duty to welcome a new class to Schenectady. You, 1.he Class of 1950, have already been welcomed by many of the campus personages so we will n'l.ake our salutations brief. You will find Union much the same as your fathers, brothers, relatives, and frie11ds have told you. Faces have changed, there is less of the friendly intimacy of the smaller, pre-war college, the curriculum has ex- panded-but the college is still unchanged. The traditions of one hundred and fifty years are not obscured ovemight. These walls about you housed the thousands of students who grew with the school and will house you as you pass your brief fom·-year stay. It is not our duty to sate you with ad- monitions nor to lecture endlessly alJout the beauties of the campus. These things will come to you from better qualified source-:; and by the feelings which will grow upon ~·oa :u they have grown upon us. But, we feel that one word of wisd0m which has passed from editor to sditor is well \\ orth your aotice. First and foremost, remember that this is your college. Use it as your home for the next four years. Be natural in your associa- tions with your fellow scholars and with yc;ur instructors as they will be with ycu. The friendships which you will form in the next few ;vears will remain with you throughout your lives. Be honest with yourselves and with the college. An institution such as this is not the place of nonsense and frivolity which many of you have imagined. There are moments of levity, there are moments of serenity, there are moments of serious- ness. Take each moment for its full value. Use the means afforded you as it is intended to be used and feel certain that your stay at l'nion College will be a happy and profitable one. he is expected to devel0p his sub- them. The :night was fiHed with t h' d' o score · ts ,coup etat or coup Ject along those lines.> pleasure and Joe SI'\W June back to · d' (, , h\ d the dorm after the usual extra-cure · armour. ..:sn t t IS ·Co.up, coup e- J I B tl • 0 tAll\' vine?>-. une .3 us n · u w~·er r,icular activities. Before leaving he We were peacefully partaki,ng of gained a commission as Junes' es· Joe tht'ust his pin at the appro- some liquid refreshment in Doug~ cart for the following evening. priate target and then hear·d his ' hcrty's the other night when we Tuesday night marked the tragic. dreams shattered and blown sky- • i spied P. char·acter who was to be ending of .our little tale of Hfe high with a distinct unmistakable the cause .of our present woe. After among the intellectual's . .'Joe had ec· \Pop.\ Respeat-\Jun:e WAS ... \ listeni.ng to a few selections which cupied his thoughts with pictures ·Our nominee for next weir's effort t~is inebriated and .unsteady char- of June. There was the girl for him. is Joe Harn::on. Joe .ought to be acter wPs playing on the juke box, He .had excitedly commented to his well qualified to write on the song your editor turned te us with eyes 1oommate that in addition to her title we have chosen for him, a gleam and shouted, \That's i-t!\ .other attributes, June had a figure \L::ndlord Fill the Flowing Bowl.\ We immed·iately craned our necks which was a ·happy impersonation ~~-o~~- to see the hunk of female pulchri- (or words to that .effect) of that of tude which had caused this great any movie actress. Joe resolved to s.;g·ns of ·Fa<l11 stir, for we knew that the editor's give her his fraternity pin that· · ht U h f 11 \All th t Seen in the Union-Fern Furnt- eyes flashed like the stop lights of mg · n appy e · ow, a l 'tt rs ·s ot g Id\ tu,re Store in Saratoga adorning a a car only on certain occasions. g I e 1 n .o · However, we spatted nothing which June's thoug-hts were all directed large double bed: would pass for a reasonable fac- toward Joe during that day. She I STRICTLY COLLEGIATE WARE simile of a woman, so we grunted a =-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;.i bew ilc'ered, \Whet e is she?\ fr \It's not a 'she' you dope. It's that £ong. That's going to be the title of your colurr.n this week, so you had better do some fast think- ing.\ The song-June Is Bustin' Out All Over. This is the story of two knights, Monday and Tuesday. The scene is Coal Fuel Oil Flour Hiram J. McKain Co. 306-314 UN'ION STREET SCHENECTADY Phone 4-4448, Shortening Seeds Fertilizers _I a girl's coHege somewhere in . , . on second thought we'll not say where for fear of repercussions. PASSING THE BUCK In the Army everyone indulged in a pleasant little game known as passing the buck. We returned to Union some months ago and were bittel'ly disappointed and dis- H1ayecl to find the College Administration indulging in the same past time. Excessive damage, well beyond \normal wear and tear,\ was done in the fratemity houses during their occupancy as navy and civilian donns. One glance at the repair bills that these houses have incurred this summer will verify this. Yet, the Adminis- tration in word and action disclaims any responsibility for these excesses. We realize that poor naval discipline was responsible for much of the damage in those buildings which housed the naval unit. How- evel·, we can see no reason why the college could not have reported these incidents to high naval authorities, who undoubtedly would have demanded stricter discipline. Even if the navy was partly responsible for some of the breakage of fumiture and buildings, it can not be held responsilJle for the damage which occurred in those houses occupied solely as civilian dormitories. Here the blame lies directly on the shoulders of the Administration. Although the college may try to shift this responsibilit~· on the proctors of those houses, that is a rather difficult task. The Ad1ninistration approved a proctor fo1· each house. These men were deemed capable of controlling- the students who occupied thnt house. If they proved incapable, it is only because the Administra- tion made a glaring error in its judgment. The college has always required a \break- age deposit\ from those students who live in the college dorms. If any fmniture was lJroken or damage done in a certain room, the student living there forfeited enough of that deposit to cover repairs. This was college property, why was the college so careful of its own property and yet negligent with the property of fraternities'! Our elders have long preached to us such moral qualities as the observance of the golden rule. We have learned that a bor- rower has the moral obligation, if nothing else, to return borrowed property in the same condition in which he received it. Are we to gather from the Administration's attitude that these moral obligations are so much hokum? Should we throw aside the 1 espect of other's property and pursue a policy of getting what we can from who we can with as little loss to ourselves as l possible? College supposedly prepares a man for a position in the business world. With this lesson which the Administration has taught us, can we enter that world and take our place as good citizens'? Considering this one aspect of life at Union College, will this lesson, which we have learned the bitterly hard way, enable us ever to succeed in our !'elations with other men? Monday night saw our hero, Joe College, enter one of the dormi- tories at Artless institute and in- quire et the information for a Miss June , . , Joe's roorr.mate had arranged a blind date for Joe and he nervously waited for her to put in an appearance. Typical visions of blind dates floated through Joe's mind, then he shrugged his should- --~-·~~~ ~-MILK I Vitamin D Homogenized I' Amsterdam Dairy 1 Schenectady, N. Y. li _ _:HONE 6-2351 --' II- ! I MIN HAM'S MEN'S SHOP McGregor Sportwear Manhattan Shirts In the eal'ly days of the war when it , looked as if the coilege would be unable to I Lee Hats J' weather the storm without the strongest I, Rochester Tailored Clothing support, the fraternities gave it their strong 1 ! est backing, both spiritual and material.!' 'i 169 JAY ST. Th 1 ~yhe 1 xpectded n~ gains from the transactio~ '--~~s=:o:-~~;;;;;::::;::;:::;::;::::;::=:;=-:;;;~=~ 1 w uc ease the1r houses to the college, but . 1 =-=-~~::;:;,;:=:;;;:::: II neither did they anticipate any substantia~ I: I w E N E E D I,'· losses. If the Administration expects any II future expressions of good faith either o;1 Y 0 U R H E A D the part of the fraternities, Ol' from the , 1 students, it should tal{e immediate steps to . '! at least partially rectif;..· the damage in which , it has played a part. \' \' 1(. r IN OUR BUSINESS ACME STUDENT ACTIVITIES B~~;R J. 509 UNION ST. Student activities are the life-blood of a college. Their keynote is organization with- out which the varied events comprising the extra-curricular side of the institution could not exist. Each ,year at this time, the heads of the many student groups begin their pleas for support. Each year the results m·e dis- couragingly the same. It seems to be a college axiom that students are willing to partake of the benefits which are derived from the labor of others but which they have failed to aid. With the return of semblances of nor- malcy, the dormant activities at Union are once again coming to life. Long stored away because of war, organizatirms of which ilmny of us are not even aware are beginning to reform. The :Mountebanks, other publica- tions, the various divisional clubs, these and many more are soon to issue invitations to YOU to join them in making the college again the busy place it once was. As Union commences her one hundred and fifty-second year, more new faces are evident than ever before. Among them must cer- tainly be men to whom the opportunities offered will appeal. In the entering Fresh- man class and in the transfer student group there will be a number who will volunteer their services. In this new year, we join the other campus activities in urging the student body to par- ticipate more actively than has been the case in years past. With vigorous assistance from ALL students, the coming terms can easi·ly prove the most fruitful in Union College history. SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4·5676 114 STATE Near i=ERRY WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and EngravinCJ· Pens and the Finest Gifts Corner State and Center Sfs. WELCOME TO UN I 0 N and VOTTIS' PIPE SHOP 130 Erie Blvd. Schenectady s. N. Y. \THE NATION'S FINEST STOCKED PIPE SHOP\ TELEPHONE 2-1953 VISIT OUR \TOBACCO BAR\' AND SAMPLE OUR VARIOUS BLENDS PIPE$ REPAIRED WE CARRY OVER 500 BRANDS OF TOBACCOS, AND STOCK 12,000 PIPES, IN EVERY SHAPE, SIZE AND PRICE RANGE pipes 1.- ' For every .type ... there~s 'a CuslrJmbili pipe •• , indivldpal as a thumbprint .•• each hand-crafted ••• no 2 alike. $00.00 \bg U.~. PCII, Off. 24 HOUR SERVICE I FRIDAY, SEPTE You:r The history c old college like l edge ot the 'hi: ·bha[ college mor surely quteken yc Un1on ·Col'leg• Revolution, for l 1ndependence lee Valley to petitio of Saratoga. The their chitdren t nation which w met with maRy academy was op later, this acade. makmg it one physical plant, : the very hour th The college t• citizens in the n• or political affil word 'union\ v. the recent unio .characteristic of turther expressi< come brotners u1 class was gradu slowly but stead Rev. Eliphalet 1 man guided the was tne outstan< tion prior to the and democratic founders had gi· enrollment ot ~ introduced, as f alternative to the he introduced chemistry as a t He revolutioniz founding of fra tinguished grou in classroom wei it was only witt that the presen ceased to hear ~ traditions of the in youth, his I :.eek to prepare were to meet v the free and op -such is the sti But Dr. No1 grew feeble, the men followed 1 when many oth< , increase in the ' themselves phy education, Unic its own sons, R ~ became preside1 then progress 1 lished .m elect vantage of the presence in Sch pany. Debts w '· unhappy dome decades quietec be followed b1 mond. He pro~ his skillful leac sically today w: President Ri service and w~ t ionally stimula ker Day. HI : necessary; and cator, selected J bia, his inaugu this last great Union alumni sadness caused Following tt headed for a br P. Whitaker, 1 of Mr. Carter College, Illinoi A college is is measured be! by the careers Union College impressive nurr trained under l ers of Mkhil Trinity, RPI ar Your College Sewat·d, Roberl Arthur, and a ficers, senators, Science and er t racted still oth Lewis Henry 1 B. Hough, Whipple. Th( <Con

t p s .. : e e \ FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1'946 Y,ou:r Co:l:lege H:i'St·ory \ The h1sto_ry of . a college, . and especially of an old college llke Umon, affects its present; and km.owl- edge ot the history of Your Cal:lege wiU make ·bha[ college more understaadable t0 you, as it will surely quiCken your regard for it. Un1on ·Col'Jege was the chi'ld 0f the American Revolution, for the hopes raised by the struggle tor Independence Jed the trontiefsmen in the lVwhawk ! Valley to petition for a colJege sooa after the battle of Saratoga. The college, they. said, should prepare the1t chitdren to play a useful part in the aew nati0n which was bemg created. The movement met with many disappointments; but in 1785 an academy_ was opened m Schenectady, and ten years later, thi~ academy was chartered as Your College, makmg 1t one ot the few colleges which had a physical plant, a student body and a facuLty from the very hour the charter was 1ssued. T be Nott Era The college took its name from the fact that the citizens in the nearby counties, irrespective of church or political affiliation, united for its founding. The word 'union\ was held in high esteem because of the recent union of the states; and the spirit so characteristic of our beginnings as a natipn foand turther expression in the college motto, \We a:ll be- come brothers under the laws ot Minerva.\ The first class was graduated in 1797, and the coU~ge grew slowly but steadily until the election in 1804 at the Rev. Eliphalet Nott as president. This remarkable man guided the College until his death in 1866 and was tne outstanding college president in the genera- tion prior to the CJVil War. He developed the liberal and democratic character of the College which its founders had given it, and by 1830 it had the largest enrollment at any college m the land. Dr . .Nott introduced, as early as 1828, science courses as an alternative to the old classical curriculum and in 1845 he introduced civil engineering. Nine years later chemistry as a technical course of study was begun. He revolutionized college discipline, permitted the founding of fraternities, aq.d brought .together a dis- tinguished group of teachers, whom he himself led in classroom work. He was a fascinating person, and it was only with the passing of those who knew him that the present generation of undergraduates has ceased to hear amusing anecdotes of him. The best traditions of the college go back to him. His faith in youth, his belief that education should always ~eek to prepare boys for the actual conditions they were to meet when they left college, the spirit of the free and open mind, and his love of experiment -such is the still cherished ideal he gave the College. Failme a11d Reroz'ery But Dr. Nott stayed in office too long. As he grew feeble, the college failed with him. Inadequate men followed him in the presidency, and at a time when many other colleges were profiting by the rapid , increase in the wealth of the country and equipping ' themselves physically with the new instruments of education, Union faltered. It was not until one of its own sons, Rev. Andrew Van Vranken Raymond, - became president in 1894 that the tide turned. Since then progress has been rapid. Dr. Raymond estab- lished .m electrical engineering course, taking ad- vantage of the unusual environment provided by the presence in Schenectady of the General Electric Com- pany. Debts were wiped out, buildings put in order, '· unhappy domestic quarrels of. the preceding two decades quieted. Dr. Raymond retired in 1907, to be followed by the Rev. Charles Alexander Rich- mond. He proved a very happy choice, and under his skillful leadership, the college as you .see it phy- sically today was developed. President Richmond retired after twenty years' service and was followed by the brief but educa- tionally stimulating administration of Dr. Frank Par- ker Day. lll health made Dr. Day's resignation necessary; and the College, again turning to an edu- cator, selected Professor Dixon Ry~tn Fox of Colum- bia, his inauguration taking place in 1934. It is to this last great president that most contemporary Union alumni turn with greatest respect and a deep sadness caused by his untimely death in 1945. Following the passing of Dr. Fox the college was headed for a brief time by Acting President Benjamin P. Whitaker, until the inauguration in May 1946 of Mr. Carter Davidson, former president of Knox College, Illinois. Al!mmi March 011 A college is not buildings, but men. Its real value is measured best by the abilities of its professors and by the careers of its graduates. The alumni body of Union College has, through the years, i~cluded an impressive number of distinguished ~mer1cans. Boys . trained under Dr. Nott became pres!dents or found- ers of Michigan, Illinois, Smith, Vassar, Knox, Trinity, RPI and nearly one hundred other colleges. Your College was the Alma Mater of William H. Sewat·d, Robert Toombs, Sidney Breese, Chester A. Arthur and a long impressive list of cabinet of- ficers, ;enators, congressmen, federal and state judges. Science and engineering, as mig\lt b~ expected, at- tracted still others; and here we find pmneers such as Lewis Henry Morgan, Seaman A. Knapp, Franklin B. Hough, George Westinghouse and Squire Whipple. The College has sent into the church and <Continued on Page 4, Col. 41 Frosh Supplement ·Ed·itor's Note In th&s ·issue of THE 'CON- CORD1IiENS:I:S, the firs.t to be .published in a yea:r whic:h ma:r-ks the :beg:inn:ing of a new era· for Un·ion. we feel it a·l· together fitting and proper reprint o.n these that we .pages certa~in selections fr-om THE FRESHMA·N HAN:oaoo:K presented to the i.ncoming Freshman Class by the Delphh: Society. C:O·LLEG E PAST Ll R·E -------~-------·------------ UNION COLLEGE CAMPUS FRATERNITIES A Alpha Delta Phi B Beta Theta Pi C Chi Psi D Delta Phi E Delta Upsilon P Kappa Alpha G Phi Delta Theta H Phi Gamma Delta I Psi Upsilon J Sigma Phi K Delta Chi CoLLEGE BuiLDINGS 1 President's House 2 Administration Building 3 Silliman Hall 4 Oldgym Dormitory 5 Oldgym Garage 6 Faculty Home 7 South College Durmitory 8 Faculty Home 9 Hale House 10 Dining Hall 11 Od Chapel 12 Kitchen 13 Memorial Chapel 14 Faculty Home 15 Wells House 16 Faculty Home 17 Faculty Home 18 Alumni Gymnasium 19 Bailey Hall 2D Butterfied Hall 21 Electrical Engineering Building 22 Biology Building 32 North College Annex 23 General Engineering 33 Faculty Home Building 34 Storage Sheds 24 New Physics Building 35 College Barn 25 Old Physics Building 36 Store House 26 North Colonnade 3 7 Caretaker's House 27 Faculty Home 38 ::-.Jott Memorial Library 28 North College Dormitory39 Washburn Hall 29 Faculty Home 40 Boiler House 30 Benedict's Barn 41 Faculty Home 31 Melius Greenhouse GENERAL FEATURES Q Old Blue Gate W Class of 1906 Well R Brownell Gate X Delta Phi Sundial S Class of 1884 Gate Y Psi Upsilon Flagpole T Kappa Alpha Gate Z Public Library V John Howard Payne Gate Student Government You are the student government of Your College. Every student at Union has ample opportunity to take an active part in the student government of the College. The Student Council, a representative assembly of the Student Body, handles direction of c.:ampus affairs. Suggestions for improvement or criticisms of pre~ent policies may be voiced in the Council and proper action will be taken. Members of the Student Council are elected by the members of the various c1asses and represent them in the Coun- cil. Among tllc powers of the Council are the right to pass regulations governing the Student Body, the right to petition the Administration on certain mat- ters .,nd the right to appoint certain committees, such as the Student Finance Committee, the Sophomore Discipline Committee and the Freshman Orientation Committee. Constitution of the Student Government of Union College Inaugurated April 26, 1938 Amended March 19, 1940 Amended May 1946 TITLE ONE: STUDENT BODY Art. I. This organization shall be known as the Student Body of Union College. Art. II. The purpose of this organization shall be to authorize and support effective ma- chinery for the conduct of those affairs, affecting the interests of students in Union College, which have been or shall be delegated to or allowed the students by the Trustees, Administration and Faculty of Union College. Art. HI. The Student Body shall consist of all un- dergraduates in regular standing in Union Art. IV College. Part 1. There shall be three regular meetings of the Student Body to be held on dates to be deter- mined by the Council. Part 2. Special meetings must be called by the CHAIRMAN of the Stu- dent Body for any Monday dur- ing which the College is in ses sion, when and only when: (a) he has urgent business to present, or (b) he has been instructed by. the Student Council to do· so, or .(c) a petition requesting a meet- ing to deal with specific business has been signed by not less than 50 MEM- BERS of the student body and has been presented to the CHAIRMAN. Part. 3 Notice of each meeting of the Student Body sha!I be given in Daily Assembly, daily for a week preceeding the time fixed for it and shall be conspicuously <Continued on Page 4, Col. 1) Academic and General Information 3 . Yom C0llege has long prided itself of! the four told plaf! ot aeveloprnem wluch IS open to all stu· def!ts. Developmem or knowlecJge 1s gamed on aca- denuc hnes tntough the medta of the class-rooms. Upportun1ty tor aevelopment of leadershtp and ad- mmJstratJve abrhty is orrered in partiupatwn in stu- dent government <~:fld extra-curncular activtties. Fra- ternitieS enable the ~tudent ·to develop along social lmes, as do many ot the social events held on the campus each year. The .tmwth phase is that of develOpment physKally, by. partinpat1on in varsity and intramural athletics. The curriculum is divided into four divisions of study. Satisfactory completion of work in the Divi- sions of Literature or Social· Studies leads to a Bache- lor of Arts degree. The Division of Science offers the choice of a Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Arts degree. The Engineering division leads to award ot the Bachelor of Science degree. The courses in ~he fres~man and sopohomor~ years are usually rqu~rcd, whde an upperclassman IS given an 0ppor- tun1ty to select courses in a field of his choosing. Gtade.s and Absence.s \'\au.e~ are issueu quaneuy, wttn appro..<unate1y e,gut weeKs muuueu m eau1 marKllli:; pt:rwu. 1u c.c,cUTllllHJg tne numencal 1nuex, an n LUUnlS nve po,u,s, a u unee, a 1..... two, ana a .LJ one. :,muems wuo Have an ave::1age or ;>.u ~.o average) or oem:r anu uo not nave 1uore tnan one 1..... a1e namea to ute uean s L!sr. Uean s L!St men may paruupate 1n as ruany a<.:uV1ttes as tney aesue, wn11e utner sm- uems a1e umnea to one aLUVJty at a t1me. :,cnoJar- smp W arnmgs are Jssueel to students wno tall to ma1ntam a sausractory mdex. 1hese men may not partiCipate m any actiVities outside the l.1ty ot Sche- nectaay. lnt: passmg index tor the various classes 1s: 1.3 tor .t' re~Hurt:n; l.':l ror ::,opnomores; ana 1.) tor J umors an ct. ::Jen10rs. Students who are on the Dean's List are unre- stncted m cuttmg Classes. Uther students are expect- ed to attend all scheauled exercises. 1\. report or the absences wlil be kept m the Dean s Office and ead1 student 1s responsmle tor keepmg a record ot the date ot absences and the reason tneretor. .Excessive or unwarranted absences will be dealt with as the Dean sees fit. .livery student shall be required to attend at least halt or the da1ly Chapel serviCes and at least eight ot the Sunday Lhapel Services. The daily assemblles shall be held four times a week, two ot these meet- mgs . being secular and two ot a religious nature. Lred1t for Chapel attendance may also be gained by attendance at a series of evening lectures which the college will aschedule. Adviser System An adviser is assigned to each student at Union. The member at thl.! taculty who is your adviser is ready to serve as your personal counsellor on college atfa1rs. He is prepared to help you plan your future program of college work and also issues your marks to you at the end of each marking period. Academic and persona:! problems are among the topics he is prepared to discuss with you. Proficiency tests are given at intervals to· students especially well prepared in certain fields. By passing these tests a student may take more advanced courses in specific fields without taking the elementary courses. Courses omitted will not be counted toward completion of a degree but may be by-passed in favor of more advanced work. Proficiency tests in foreign languages enable a student in Viyisions II or Ill to omit the two year language reqmrement for a degree in those divisions. Living Quarters Rooms in the college dormitories are under the · supervision of a proctor appointed by the Dean. Your proctor is responsible for seeing that your conduct 1s on a par With that of other college men. Study rules are in effect in both the dormitories and the frat~rnity houses during t~e evening hours. By ob- servmg these rules of qmet, a student makes his own and other's lives in the college community more comfortable. Each student is held responsible for damage occuring in his room. Freshmen living in the college dormitories are required to eat their meals six days per week in Hale House, the college dining hall. All Freshmen, regardless of place of residence, will eat at least one meal per week in Hale House. Sttpply and Employment The College maintains a bookstore in the North end of Washburn Hall for the convenience of stu- dents. Books, instruments and supplies for all courses are available there. The schedule of hours when the store is open will be posted. The Student Employment Bm'eau is located in Room 1 of the Administration Building. Although Freshmen are advised to do a minimum of work until they have mastered the academic schedule, the Bureau offers three mediums of self-help; work in return for room or board, or both; part time jobs of various nature with local firms; and odd jobs.

4 CO:N STITUTIO.N f Continued J Art. V. posted on the College Bulletm Doard, and 11 posSliJle, pnntect in tlle Concon11ens1s. rlle otf tcers ot the ::.tuctent .l:lody shall constst ot a l.hauman and a ::.c:Lretary. llle l.hatrman shaH be the stuctent wno sllal'l have been elected Chairman ot t11e ::.ou c.temt l.ounnl (.see lltle 11, .tut. V.). H1e ::.ecretary shacll be t11e swuent wno slJa 11 !lave b~en eJected ::.ecretary ot tJqe ~tu c.tent LounC!l. Art. VI. Part I. '1he ChaJrman shall preside at :cll meetmgs or the ::.tuuent l:!ody . .l-ie suall conduct the met:t- mg m accordance W!tll accepted paruamentary procedure. lt snall oe hiS c.tuty to report to the ::.tu- dent Houy, a :mmmary ot the Jegislat1ve acts of the Student Council since the previous Stu- dent Body Meeting. Part 2. The Secretary shaH keep recmds of all busmess transacted at all meetings of the Student Body and shatl be prepared to read the minutes of t11e previous meeting at the request of the Cha1rman, or iive members. All minutes shall be filed in the Student Ac- tivities Office. Part. 3 In the absence of the Chairman at any meetm.g, the .Secretary shall preside, in which case he shaH appomt a Secretary pro- tempore. In the absence of both officers, the chair shall be taken by a Senior member of the Student Council who shall have been designated by the Chairman and who shall appl}int an acting- Secretary. Art. VII. Part l. The primary business of the Stu- dent Body meetings shall be: (a) to afford an occasion for consideration of general structure and functiOning of the student government. A quorum (b) to provide a means through wh1ch the Student CounCil shall report its actions to the Student Body. (c) to provide the Student Body an occasion on which it may express its approval or disapproval of decisions of the Student Council. (d) to provide means by which the Student Body may pass resolutions calling upon the Student Council to enact or to repeal specific legisla- tion, which resolutions shall be the first order of new business at the next meeting of the Student Council. Part 2. The secondary function of the Student Body Meeting shall be to provide a means to recall any member of the Student Council. Each student group with a rep- resentative on the Council is em- powered to recall its own rep- resentatives, if such officers have been seen to be incompe- tent or to have acted inconsis- tently With tne goou or tne .::>tu- dent jjocly, proviUmg: (a) an anJrrnative vote for re- call or the ofhcers shall have been cast by two- hundred (200) members ot the Student tlody, unless two-hundred be Jess than two-thirds (2;'3) ot those members present at the meetmg, in whiCh case a two-thl!ds vote shall be re- quired. (b) When an officer has been recalled his office shall im- mediately be vacant and shall immediately be filled according to this Constitu- tion, Title II. (c) When a procedure for re- call has failed, the Coordi- nator shall destroy all ma- terial related solely to the attempted recall and the Secretary of the Student Body shall make note of the outcome so as to avoid any recrimination in his records which might be detrimental to the student involved. for conducting busi-Part 1. Art. VIII. ness at a Student Body Meeting shaH be one-quarter ( 1 /4) of the Student Body. The vote necessary for action shall be as follows: to Ol~ Union WRITTEN BY FITZHUGH LUDLOW OF THE CLASS OF 18'i6 Let the Grecian dream of his sacred stream And sing of the brave adorning That Phoebus weaves from his laurel leaves At the golden gates of morning. But the brook that bounds thro' old Union's grounds Gleams bright as the Delphic water, And a prize as fair as :t god may wear, Is a dip from our Alma Mater. Could our praises throng on the waves of song, Like an Orient fleet, gem bringing We would bear to thee the argosy, And crown thee with pearls of singing; But thy smile beams down beneath a crown, Whose glory asks no other; We gather it not from the green sea-grot- \Tis the love we bear our Mother !-Chorus Let the joy that falls from thy dear old walls, Unchanged brave Time's on-darting, And our only tear falls once a year On hands that clasp ere parting; And when other throngs shaH sing thy songs, Amd their spell once more hath hound us, Ollr faded hours shall revive their flowers, And the past shall live around us.-Chorus Cborm Then here's to thee, the brave and free, Old Union, smiling o'er us, And for many a day, as thy walls grow gray, May they ring with thy children's chorus! ----- --------------- ------------- Part 2. (a) for amendment of the Con- stitution, as provided in Art. IV. (b) for resolution to the Stu- dent Council, a simple ma- jority. (c) for recall of an officer, as stated above. Freshmen shall have privilege of vote and discussion atter the first semester. Art. IX. Amendment to this constitution may be in either of the following ways: (a) By the vote of two-thirds ( 2 1 3) oi the Student Council and the ap- proval by a simple majority of tne voling members of the Student Body present at its next meeting at which the proposed amendment shall be presented for a vote. Notice of ,1 proposed amendment shall be pub- lished in the Concordiensis (after approval by the Student Council) preceding the Student Body Meet- mg at which the vote is to be taken. (b) Or, amendment may be made by a two-thirds (2 1 3) vote of all mem· bers of the Student Body. Freshmen included after first semester. (c) The Coordinator of Student Activi- ties shall arrange for polling the vote and shall supervise voting in conjunction with Student CounCil. TITLE Two: THE STUDENT CouNCIL Art. I. Part 1. The Student Council shall be the primary govermng body tor the Student J:Sody of Union College. It is .to be primarily responsible for representmg desires ot the Student Body to the Administra- tion; tor settmg up ertectivc methods oJ: carrying out legtsla- tlve measures ot the Stuuent Government; for the allocation of funds collected by the Student Tax; for the maintenance of the student morale and College tra- ditions; for the increasing of in- terest in the social program and student activities; and to repre- sent the students in cases of stu- dent conduct and discipline. (d) Any student or group rep- resentative may attend, with permission of a majority of members present, and take part in the discussion of matters of great importance to the person or group, but may not vote unless a regu- lar member of the Student Council. Part 2. (a) Represent at iYes in category (a) shall be elected belore other representatives, and the men elected will not be eligible for membership in any other category. (b) Representatives of the three upper classes in category (b) shall be elected from ballots presenting a list of • I rcomeTo nommees, nommated by petition signed by at least fifteen ( 15) members of the candidates class. The ballots presenttd to the re- spective classes of under- graduates will list the nomi- nees in alphabetical order. Each ballot must be marked for the full number of men to be elected from that class. Upon counting the ballots, the outgoing Coun- cil shall declare as elected men in each class receivin~ the greatest number of j votes. Freshmen represen-, tatives shall be elected by the freshman class in the Fall of each year. I VINICK•s High Qualify FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1'946 (c) No student may be a •ep- resentative in more than one category. In case of va- cancies caused 'by recall or other reasons the Coundi shaH take sud1 action as necessary. Art. III, Part 1. The Jirst rc..sular meeting of the Student Council shall be held on the First Wedaesday after elec- tions. At this meeting, the .fol- lowing i~ems of business shaH be moved on: (a) The officers of the Student Council shall be elected. (b) New and Old business. Part 2·. The .first meetiNg of tl~e new academic year sluLI take place on the first W edrnesday in October when the following items o.f · business shall be moved on: ' (a) Dates for two meetil'!gs per monfh at times most con- venient and practical for the members. !Constitution Conti-nued in Next Issue) College History (Continued) into missionary fields many a boy whose career was distinguished. I~ the field of letters, there are prob- ably few Amen cans who have not heard of John Howard Payne, another alumn11s Gf Union. You will find much to be ,proud of in the history , of the College you have chosen, and you should find inspiration too in the careers of that long column of Union men which you now j0in and which stretches back to that fi·rst class of three wl1o in 1797 received the first diplomas granted by Your Cdl'lege. IDqr Qtnurnrbirtt!ti!l Needs ----1·---- JOURNALISM PHOTOGRAPHY ADMINISTRATION ---·---- Staff Meeting for Applicants Student Activities Office Monday Evening at 7 l!llw~ I I Part 2. The Student Council is to be definitely a governing body and in no sense an honorary organi- zation. No keys or other honor- ary insignia or privileges shall, under any circumstances, be awarded to its members. Art. II. Part 1. The Student Council shall con- SPORTWEAR SHIRTS Y 01lve a bri9ht future. son •.• sist of the following: (a) The elected president of the four classes of undergrad- uates. (b) Twenty-three (23) repre- sentatives, in addition to class presidents, to be dis- tributed as follows: Seniors 5; Juniors 5; Sophumores 5 ; Freshmen 5 ; Represen- tatives of the Student Ac- tivities Board of Managers 3. (c) The Coordinator of Student Activities as an ex-officio member. HATS SUITS Haberdashery Conveniently Located at 514 STATE ST. . . . and the best place to start from, is the ERIE BARBER SHOP. Y au will find· 4 barbers in constant attendance, who have repu- tations for alertness, smart hair cutting and cleanliness. You are always sure of the hest at ... ERIE IAR~ERSHOP 22 Erie Boulevard All the Wanted New Fall 'Furnishings ·For College Men! FRIDAY, SE With Union contest only tv Coach Mel E moulding the f rep0rted to hi into a sma0th The team rost men at preser a number of 1 during this we• Hein, startiz son as Union p ects to ha v~ notch shape f, t gainst St. La· 28th. He ha~ Union since hi Department c but cancellatic aad 1945 a:nd schedule in 11 opportunity t< team. Under and assistant the squad is sl ment. Pva The first f, wered ev.oted candidates fa1 Union faces tl sions hRve bec afternoons. .A struction in pl played by the the team hele on September the team ha1 work. Although E comment on line-up, it i, squad wHl b~ nucleus of let and 1944 teal nine men, He' outst1nding t a dozen higl stars. Passing The return passing and r excellent 194~ to Hein's he season. Roy many of Enst ed to contim reer he beg~ Siegel operate back slot. A third me1 field, Bob Ba the .Garnet • left half that main in that Johnny Ne· of the '42 co see considera ton was on 1 number of p son and dis· hanging on t Tackle Bil' man to reh squad, is she the Joss of cc ing his army '44 w Pete Spez1 tackle Tom< terback, and the four 1~ team who berths. Transfer .outstanding greatest tE school ever f man who ' Union's opp freshman bl Vossen berg, sity center versity of I transfer stu' ed definite 1 Among t: prospects H are John Hal'old Lun1 George Best Vesty, Dick Dan Mead, Stein, D9.ve Gene \I w !ivan rnd JAM I E E 2oo < AP co Zipp

•ep- than va- or undi as the elec- .foi- shaH new of per con- for was rob- find of ches 5 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1946 --~~~------------~--------------~--~--~------~~~----~~-------- for Opening Game Prep Garnet Gridmen With Union's opening gridiron.~•!---------------- ----- contest only two weeks away, Head Coach Mel Rein has been busy : moulding the feotpall aspirants who· reperted to him on September 3rd. · into a sma0thly functi.oning team. --------- The team roster includes nearly 50 men at present, but Hein expects a number of additions to be made during this week. \ --------------------~ I ~ Wyatt Issues· CaU :To Fall Practice •---- For Lacro·sse Men .. Whitey .. Boe:hm Appointed Coach Of Basket.ball Squad for •46-'47 , \Whitey\ Boehm, who produced • two baslcet'ball winnevs last year, Coach Fred Wyatt h~s issued a . will get a chance to do the same . caB for faH practice for the la- next season. for he has been I•e- hil·ed as Union Colleg~'s basketball crosse team. Wyatt will rr:eet with coach for the 1946-47 season. Boehm has been coach at Nott Tet'!'ace for three years during which his te«ms won 14 of 16, 11 of 17, and 12 of 18 games respectively. · all interested candidate.s for the J. H'ii'Old Wittnei·, diJ.ector of ath· Boehm took over a·t Union last year Hein, starting his first full sea- son as Union footbaU ·coach, ex- pects to have the eleven in top notch shape for the season opener t gainst St. Lawrenc~ on Se;:tember · 28th. He has been coaching at Union since his appointment to the Department of Athletics in !942, but cancellation of f.ootbaN in 1943 aad 1945 a:nd an abbreviated grid schedule in 1944 offered him little • opportunity to proc;luce a normal team. Under the tutelage of Hein and assistant coach Art Lawrence, the squad is showing rapid develOP\ ment. var·sity team in the trophy room of the gyn:nasium on Wtdnesday, Sep· tember 18th, at 4:30 P. M. A special appea 1 is being n:ade to a:H students to attend this meet· ing. No previous experience is necessary and Wyatt expects that three days before the first game and, although half his firot team was transfetTed by the Navy in the letics, in announcing the a-ppoint· mcnt of Boehm, said that he win continue to doubl'c a.t Unioa and Nott Terrace high school .. 'I'he two schecules are being arranged to middle of the schedule, the Union Pvactice Plays The first few days of practice wered ev-oted to conditioning the candidates for the tough schedule . Union faces this year. Practice ses- · sions hRve been held marnings and afternoons. After preliminary in- struction in plays which will be em· played by the Dutchmen this year the team held its first scrimmage on September 7th. Following that the team has been daily contact work. Although Rein is still reserving comment on a tentative starting line-up, it is rupparent that the squad wHl be developed araund a nucleus of lettermen from the 1942 and 1944 teams. Along with these nine men, Hein will call upon three outst1nding transfer students and a dozen high school and service stars. Passing Attack Likely The return .of Hal Enstice, stellar passing and running fullback of the excellent 1942 eleven, adds greatly to Hein's hopes 1or a successful season. Roy Siegel, receiver of many of Enstice's passes, is expect- ed to continue the spectacular ca- reer he began at Union in 1942. Siegel operates from the right half- back slot. A third member of the 1942 back· field, Bob Bartlett, is also bearing the .Garnet colors again. Bartlett, left half that year, is slated to re- main in that position. Johnny Newton, an<lther member of the '42 combination, is likely to see considerable action at end. New· ton was on the receiving end of a number of passes during that sea- son and displayed much ability hanging on to the ball. Tackle Bill Howard, fifth letter- man to return fr-om the '42 grid squad, is showing up well, despite the loss of considerable weight dur· ing his army career. '44 Well Represented Pete Spezzano, blocking back, tackle Tom Crone, Pete King, quar· terback, and Bob Keane, tackle, are the four lettermen of the 1944 team who are seeking varsity berths. Transfer student Ken Whalen, .outstanding back from one· of the ©ESQUIRE, IN~., lU4.6 Reprinted from the October issue of Esquire about 95 .per cent of the candidates will be newcomers to the game which has been played in America f.or centuries. Candidate managers are also invited to attend the ini- tial meeting of the squad. All men who report and are not on the football or cross country squads will engage in daily prac- tice sessions, with gym gredit be- \Tal'e it easy, now-remember whose side you're on!\ , ing given. Practice will begin on Thursday. The varsity schedule is being planned and will include at least nine games against top notch tearr.s. If intet•est is sufficient, a junior Coach Ketz Issues Early Call for Cross-Country Team . varsity schedule wiU also be ar- ranged. Wyatt said that approximately 30 freshmen got a good start in the Coach Bill Ketz has issued a calli> ~---·- ---- game at Freshmen Camp, when for all cross. country can~idates to I will face three weeks .of intensive· they lerurned the knack of handling r~port to h1m at Alumm Gymna· practice before traveling to Roch- the stick He expects that many SIUm Mond.ay af.ternoon at 3:00 P. · ester to face its first test on ·Octo- more freshmen will be in atten- M. In makmg h1s call for men for ber 5 th dance at fall practice, the 1946 harrier squad,( Ketz urged , The fall session will end with the all students who are interested, re- Ketz expects to maintain a large nresen tation of the Class of 1887 gard.less Of Whether . they are fresh- squad and few cuts wi'll be made, - . Lacrosse Trophy in Novembet·. This : men .or upperclassmen, to answer Credit for gym classes will be given h h t . · t · th trophy is awarded annually to t e • the I ·n·I't. 1 'al call for runners. to all men w o par IClpa e m e d . · · winning team in the intermural la- An ambi 'tious seven meet sched- arly practice sessions. crosse competition. ule faces the Garnet hill-and-d&lers Several lettermen from recent 0 __ _ and Ketz hopes to ·be able to start Union teams are expected to re- a squad which will make a good turn to this season's squad. These a·ppearance against some of the men and other promising candi· toughest competition Union has dates will form the nucleus of the faced in recent years. The varsity squad. Fall Sports Schedules Football Sept. 28-St. Lawrence University . Oct. 5-Rochester University at Rochester Oct. 12-eVrmont University at Burlington Oct. 19-RPI Oct. 26-Hobart College at Geneva Nov. 2--Willimns College Nov. 9-Middlebury College Nov. 16-Hamilton College at Clinton Cross Country Oct. 5-Rochester University at Rochester Oct. 12-Vermont University at Bmlington Oct. 19-RPI Oct. 26-Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute Nov. 2- Williams Nov. 9-Middlebury College The greatest football center of all , tirr.e, Mel Hein, who played more than 270 football games in 23 years on high school, college and profesc i sian' 1 gridiron, will be on the bench 1 this year as coach of the first pest- • war eleven at Union College, Sche- ! nectady, N. Y. I FRENCHl CLEANERS and DYERS 129 JAY STREET • \Reliable Service\ avoid crmfiicts. :team won nine with eight !'asses. Joseph's WELCOMES you to UNION. You've chosen a good college. May we suggest you choose Joseph's - a good place to buy your clothes. Here You Need No Entrance exams- No aptitude tests- No orientation course- Just a desire for some new FALL CLOTHES. • We've been outfitting UNION men for over a quarter of a century. MAY WE SERVE YOU. • SUITS TOPCOATS SPORT CLOTHES OVERCOATS ACCESSOR! ES Joseph•s Nov. 16-IC4A Championships at New York City CHEER FOR UNION • ,.; ... ~~~\ ~~~~~~~~~~~S~TA:N:.:J:O;;:S~EP~H~~~~~~5;;1;,:3 ~S~TA;,:T~E;;;S~T~RE~E~T ~~ !! Phone o-4295 Union '21 At Barrett - -~--- --- --.....,.---------~--- ------ greatest tearr.s Whitehall high school ever fielded, is a triple threat man who will bear watching by Union's opponents. Whalen was a freshman back at Dartmouth. Bill Vossenberg, Temple University var- sity center and Art Langlois, Uni- versity of Idaho guard, are o~h~r transfer students who have exhibit- ed definite talent. All applicants for the Cheer Leading Squad re- port to the Student Activ- ities Office Tuesday at 7 UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE Among the Dther outstanding prospects Hein has to c·hoose fl'Dm are John DeBello, Milton Mills, Hal'old Lundstrom, Carl Armstrong, George Best, Charles Duggan, J.ohn Vesty, Dick Clements, Bob Fletcher, Dan Mead Chuck Richards, .Sam Stein D9.V~ Strauss, Dave Killian, Gene' \I wanta be a wteel\ Sul- livan r nd Brud Shaffer. JAMES F. BURNS • EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL 'I; • 20o CLINTON STREET P.M. I Dress Clothes Headquarters TUXEDO SUITS, CUTAWAY$ AND FULL DRESS SUITS To Rent for All Occasions Complete Outfits Furnished Bus. Phone 4.-7801 Res. Phone 3-5004 Ottaviano's Sartorial Bar NEW LOCATION 114 JAY ST. CITY HALL SQUARE APPLETON'S ~-~··· r-----------------~ 1671/2 JAY STREET t' SEALTEST : Next to Minharn's . HOMOGENIZED ! Men's Shop i VfT AMI,N :D MILK 1 CO.MPLE~E SHOE l I· REBtllLDING e 1 , TEXTBOOKS AND SUPPLIES FOR ALL COURSES * Desk Blotters Bath Towels, Wash Cloths S t ud e n t L a m p s Fountain Pens Stationery: Die Stamped and T-Shirts and Sweat Shirts Personalized * Laboratory Aprons Laundry Cases FELT BANNERS and PENNANTS NOVELTY ANIMALS * COLLEGE SEAL JEWELRY * GREETING CARDS PENGUIN BOOKS * t-lo~,trs - 8:45 - 5:00 Daily Saturday 8:45 - Noon • l Phone 4-3121 1 Zippers Re·placed on ! I WASHBURN HALL AM-~91 L-----------------------·---J~==================================~=======d NORTH WING

6 College Lectures AnCI Concerts to Commence Oct. 5 1 1 Fac\'lfv Ap10o=ntments Fre\'hm~n Camp I in every factor of its designed pur- 1 nary rushing g.r?und for Uni~n .. 8 I\' • , . pose. Basically a \get acquainted\ College fratermtles 1 esultlng 111 1 ( C0n tinued F1 om Page 1) (Continued From Page 1) period it has developed into a major many Freshmen being pledged 1 the new ptofessors have taught is the Freshmen returned to Union 0 rientation program in which much early ~n their colle.ge career. B.e- 1 long and impressive. They number late that mornmg. Changing is done for the inc0ming Freshmen caus~ of the ;adtcal change Ill among them Hat·vard and Roches~ weather conditions, however, en- in introducing him to college ways rushmg regulatwns, h~wever, s~t te>r Universities, Michigan State abled the camp to be closed on and life before he reaches the up by the Interfratermty Counc.tl A series of Pleven lectures £ nd Coi!egr Northwestern University, Wednesday. campus. Seminars with student this has all ~een ch;t~ged and th1s conce1 ts selected to intensify the LoUisiana State University, Tulane leaders and faculty advls0rs serve year fratermty achvtty at camp cultural and citizenship t1aining of Unive1sity, University of Iowa, Ohio . These few days. m~rlt. the .re- as a stimulus fm· the student, m- was relatively quiet. the student body of Union College, State- University Cornell and Am- mst.atement of an mstitutwn which teres.ting him ~n his scholastic. ~i:ns Freshman Camp has been dor~ 70 Per cent of which are vetmans, I herst, Middlebury Syracuse Univer- durmg the years previous to World and m the varwus student a.cbvitJes rnant since 1942 when it was closed was announced by Dr. Carter David- sity, and William's College. War II became a con:g~ byword. aiding him in every possbJle way. f~t· the durati'on of the wai' pet•t'od. son president 1 S 1 f th . t 11 Introduced by the Cht·tstlan Asso- ~ ' · evei·a 0 e appom ees are we t · 1936 't h · p 1 ·evious to this \ear Freshman 'I The camp site, however, which is: The lecture >'el ies will be .support- versed in the world of business, one 1 era ·!On m. 1 as ever smce , ed by the I~habod Spencer !ecture having been Vice President of a .been eons~~ered a complete success Camp has alway~ been a prelimi- jointly 0wned and used by the Boy· fund of Umon College, whtle the SchPnectady fir·m and several asso- . concerts alP madP poRRJhlr hy \'Vnl '-'l\l\<.l wlth Geneva! .b:!ectnc Com-1 \ ·· ter C. Baker, VIce president of the 1 pany. Gua1anty Trust Company of Nev. 1 __ -<> I Yo!!\ C!ty, 1~t! cl.ctilu.au uf lhP <'ul- i SDC T t u I 1 lege b0a1d Of trustees I rea s nru y The program includes. October I ~ 5, Matcel Dupre, French organist;. Frosh to Haircut October 14, Bruce Bailnsfeather, I ca1toonist of tv.o Wo!ld Wars; No- Last night a. group of upperclass- \ ember 4, Ray Josephs, correspon- 1 men representmg the laws of Umon dent and authol'ity on Latm A~r..er- 1 College as set up by the Student ica; December 2. Walter Durcnte, 1 Ccuncil meted out in a form of correspondent and authonty on I justice peculiar to this institution Russi~: DecerrhPr 9, Got don St 1 ing punishmPnt to Gene Krautter and Quartet; Janua1y 6, Hector Bohtho, I brought pressure to bear on several English VIctorian biographer and I other members of the Freshman authmity on Palestine; February 10,, Class. Actio~ came about after Emst Wouff, Iiedel singe1·; Feb! u- Krautter obJected to Freshmen aty 18, D01othy C1awford, drarratic Regulations as laid down by the rr:onologui:;t; Mm ch 17. Hallett Student Body of Umcn College and Abend, chit'f Far-E stel'll con·es- asl,ed for organization among the pondent for the New York Times: veterans of his class to disregard Aplil 14, Btaggiottl and Chaikin, these laws. t! u0-pianists; May 5, Edwa1 d Kane, Krautter submitted to judgment tenor. and punishment wrth excellent The conce1 ts a1 e pat t of a series showing and leaders of the upper- of moves taken by Union College classmen gl'Oup stated that he recently to intensify cultural train- served as an eKarnple to his class. ing of undergraduatgs following a '•I guess we are going to wear statement by President Davidson in Freshmen hats,\ stated the defend- his inaugmal address that \In a ant later in the evening to several men's college thc1c is danger that upp<>t classmen standing nea1by. line aits and n:usic rn2y be looked Moving along the halls of upon as >\orne what efferr.in\ te ... South College upperclassmen routed and when such mts and crvilizing Freshmen from their beds and influences are left to the WOir..En asl{ed Van to state opinions on the alone a nation begins to lose its real ,,<reshmen ru.es, while K1autter cultural energy.\ P1 esident David- tagging along with the group per- ~on then callc>d for a bold prog1am suaded them that the rules were at Union College m \restoring < 1t .111 for the best. and music to their p1 oper place in _ ----o- __ the masculine wot id as a p1 actical A • h path to the g1 eate1 cnjc> ment uf I nnc.un!=es N19 + School I life.\ ' More than SIKty students in the Otht•J n:l·a~uics taken fu1 cultu1 a] 3chenectady area have made pre- I t1 aining by the college mclude of- 11mmaJy applicatiOn for admission I fering of new cumses in cultural w the coeducational Freshman eve- ·t udil's, establiolm·cnt uf < n art nm~ program which is to be con- libJaty whe1e students n:ay boiJOW dueled he1e from 4.00 to 10·00 i IPproductions cf gJeat painting. to .J rn. begmning September 23. Pro- I h:ng in the11 1 oo~ s. and expansion .t'eoor Mortime1 F. Sayre will head I of the mus1c libraiy. hP E>Xten>'ron divisiOn 1 :Xo >llbsellptions to tl E' :;e11cs VI II' Establishment of the coedura- I h<>• old Studer.to, facult}, ;taff wnal sessiOns to bring first vea1· 1 alumni and thEi1 fa:rilies will bo ~allege oppc 1 tunity to vetPran ·and I ndrritted to the >clies flee. In nt!. :IVJ\Jan hi\h s<'hool g\l'aduntes' clitirn. n <'rrlwis of F!lulu:n Fottln ·•'llhm commuting distanrl' of I \ill bp :•dn·Jt:ec' to tl:e S\.'! ll~ Ill I e .3ch£>nertadv was nnnounced Ill 1 turn f<·J thdt p nting free adn.b md-Aw;uo·:· bv PtPsidPnt Carter 1 <ion for Pn!on C'\ll<ge ~tUuLnt~ t• .)av,d,...on in respnn•f' to I'PqUP~t• I ].,~ttl!< ·J \' :u.LJ h~ Fll·tdu!ll rom :;rhonl autho11tiPs and <'ivic' F'nrun• :roup\ 1t1 Schenectady, i\mstetd:1m,' freshm~m < Ccntinu~d F: o:n Page 1 1 to thRt wh,ch adotn!·d tlw Hanrl honk~ a df'rHdP ago Plans fot· the publication of a HHndbook WPl'<-' laid during the closing days of thr- last Rp1 in~· TPrm hy thP Delphic HnC'iety anc cumpilatJ<.n of the material Wa! plac£>d m the hands of Editor· Hill Its mam purpm·e was to se>r ve as a supplement tu the F1eshmar 01ientatwn P1og1am also spon· sonrl by thP DP!phic SnctPty. 0 Coa<'h :\!pi H in'< 1~46 football eleven thiil fAll \\ 1'1 rreet Pight tC'arr.s against \tho :1 Lnh;n Ct I- leo; e. SchE ncct dy, t:as sco1 E>d 117 \\ins. 97 lo\rH. and ~2 ttPF with a gi ar.d totAl of 271!1 pr.ints af':oinst its op~or.ents 2104 m 60 )e'irs of mtercollcgiate coT petition PATRONIZE CONCORDY ADVERTISERS FERRO'S RESTAURANT Spaghetti and Meat Balls Our Specialty * 1115 BARRETT STREET ...Xlover·s,·ill<', Johnstown. and othe1 ' u ea communities Majority From Srhf'nPctady I P•ofes··or SHyrP has announcrrl I that tho maJority of tlw applicant\ 1 are from the immediate Sci-cnPr- i t ldy area With a few fr·om Albany I tnd Troy and sevetal fwm Sara- I oga, BalLston Spa, Glove1sville, ' J uhnstuwn. and Amste1·dam. Ap- olrc.mt:;; hct \ ,. been equally dJv.ded Jel\\een thuse teekmg a hberalr 11 t~ education and those who wish I o , tudy engineering. It was urged that those planning to apply should do ~D immediately for a lArge Pn- rnllmPnt will necess!tatf' additions 1 to the teaching staff of the Collpge New Program llnion Ccliege offers the full time Freshman Night School Course in! addition to thl· usual nndergr actuate ' wu1 k f01 the first tJmP in its hie· tory. The College, however, has! maintained a division of eKten:;ion for several years. Progt·ams such as this tie in with the ota t~-wide educational exten- 1 sion prugiam now bcmg :;ponsored by the Dev.ey Admm1stration and at·e being set up th10ughout the countrv. ~r~r~H~E~-~G~A~R~N~E~T~. r 1 1i TAILOR 1 1 b05 LIBERTY STREET Schenectady, N. Y. • Formal Wear to R.ent ! I Printers I I I I I I I I!:========================================~! I ~~ ~~~ THEY SATISFY \FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 13, 1946 Scouts of America and the Sche- 1 nectady YMCA who operate it throughout the summe1 rernair.ed open during this time. ----0--- In the \friendliest rivalry in the northeast,\ Union College has met 1 Hamilton C01lege 50 times on the l gridimn since 1890. Union won 20, l0st 19, and tied 11. Un;on College at Schenectady has J played 449 grid games since 1886, ~~ won 191, lost 203, and tied 55. I I I I ! PEP RA FOR NEX Vol. LXXIV, Council Scb Set Membe1s o classes wrll ca day during tl class presiden the rr:eeting or on Wednesda) Hall. The Freshm. temporary pr September 30, asium during period. Election pro class elections rrembers of acting es cha election will 1 section of ::.1.1ei the Juniors ca the rear of th more election Old Chapel. Co unci The Student plans for the tatives to th scheduled for nations for rE accepted at ! next week up( a petition be8..1 of classmates tions may be dent Activitiel Hall from 1 :3( Elections .of Council are g. of tlle Consti1 Government VI \Art. II. Pa tives of the t c-tegory <bl I hers, and no shall be elect sen ting a list n?ted by petit fifteen <15) rr date's class. ' to the resnec1 graduates -will alphabetical o Old Coun \Each balloi the full numb ed from that the ballots t shall declare ~ class receivin! of vctes. FreE shall be elect cla~s in the F The tempor dent who wi 30th of Septer IT'ewbers of h tives to the C After class it will be thei range for cia to elect the fleers. Out, Fifty-five s at the initial ing Club last Fred Wyatt the advisors Plans were skiing, fishin~ dancing eveni tion of the F! trip on Lake n· ade in the c finest. Fred \' ested student affair as soo1 available bee! can be accep Membershii

946 it the met the 20, has PEP RALLY SET FOR NEXT FRIDAY The Stud~nt Newspaper of Union College Vol. LXXIV, No. 2 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1946 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------$ Council Announces Class Election Schedule; Interfraternity Is Set For Annual Grid Prom Members of the. three upper'? At the meeting held last T11esday I Announce New :Medical Plan I For Students ! Dr. Murray Wagner to Set SCHEDULE SET FOR ASSEMBLY ATTENDANCES Lecture, Conc:ert Series Will Supplement Regular Planned Chapel Programs classes w1H cast therr ballots Mon- night in the Student Activities Of- Program in Action Aided day during the chapel period for ! • . . B N d A • t t V\iT'th th t' f · class presidents, it was decided at 1 !ice, the Interfraternity Councrl an- y urse an SSIS an S 1 e excep 10n o · examma- tion periods and vacations, week- the Jr.eeting of the Student Council ~ounce~ i.ts plans for the forthcom- Crowded over its intended capa- day college assemblies will be held on Wednesday evening in Silliman mg Gndn·on Ball. ~r;nual formal city f0r the fi1st time in its 152 year ·in Memorial Chapel 12:45-1:15 p.m. Hall. I dance held by tradition on the history, Union College has inaugu- on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thurs- The Freshman class will choose a weekend of the last home g-amP of rated a full-time health service to th t f tb 11 H ld 1 days, and Fridays. Tuesday and temporU\ry president on Monday, : e curren ° 0 a season. e a- meet the expected demand·. Dr. M. Thursday assemblies will bl'ing September 30, at the Alumni Gym- te1.n~tely with Hamilton Col!Pge of I Wagner will be the physician on visiting speakers on scientific, so- asium during the regular chapel Clinton, N. Y .. the prom this ycar ·hand at all Urnes, and he will have 1 cia!, and literary topics; the Wed- period. ; wiH occur on Friday night, Novem- a nurse and several other trained b d nesday assemblies will e eve- Election procedures for all of the : ber 8 before the Middlebury game. medical assistants aiding him. I tiona! chapel services; Friday as- class elections wil'l be handled by As the Greek repicscntativcs At presenL, ihe ilispen;;ary is lo- semblies will be musical perform- rr embers of the Student Council · gathered to form plans fot· the cated in the old office at the bal- ances. actin.g es .chairmen, .The Senior· em rent term, .t~ii·teen uf the sev- cony of the gym, but it will be elec~10n wii.J be .?eld In the fr~nt , 2n~een fi.atet mtles were rcpr eol'nt- 1 moved to Silliman Hall in the near section ?f ::.1.1err.o.Iml C?apel. with d m a discus~Ion which lasted the 1 futute. At .Silliman, an infirmary is the Junwrs castmg their ballots at 1 ?etter part of two hours. Matter,; of I also going to be located. This new the rear of. the c~apel. The Soph_o- 1 1mpo1 tance to coxr.c. before . the I featUie was deemed necessary be- more electwn Will take place m 1 group w71 e the clectwn of .ufftccr s, cause of the increased attendance Old Chapel. I the appomtment of :\' committee for at school and the resultant crowd- ColUlcil Week Later 1 the prom, a committee to answ~r I ing of dormitories. The Student CouncH also drew up I the staten:ent of a.n Io~n coed m Among the other features of this Sunday srrvires in C'harge of the President, the Chaplain, and visit- ing preachers are held each Sun- day morning nt 11:00 in Memorial Chapel. In addition, each semester there will be a number of public lectures, forums and concerts by leading authorities and artists in the Memorial Chapel at 8:00 p.m. on weekdays. plans for the election of represen- 1 ~·egar~s to fratcrnity hfe. one, to 1 extensive health program will be tatives to· the Council, which is I mvestlgate ~he Pr?ble~. confrontmg I the regular checking of sanitation, scheduled for September 30. Nomi- all houses m :r amtammg ~n a de- living conditions, and food san ita- In order to assure wide partici- nations ·for representatives will be quate supply of s~gB!' .dm mg the lion, waste disposal, and primarily pation in the above program, with- accepted at any time during the shm:tage, and a dJscussr.on on the the prevention as well as treatment out unduly restricting freedom of next wed{ upon the presentation of merits of the co-oper-atiVE' buymg of communicable diseases likely to choice, all students will be ex- a petition beal'ing fifteen signatures system. spread in such a large and crowd- pected to earn a minimum of 50 of classmates d the nominee. Peti- To HI\IP Ele<'tions ed student population. Innoeulations assembly credits each semester: tions may be turned in at the Stu- With incumbent President Albert and physical examinations will be one credit for weekday assemblies, dent Activities Office in Washburn K. Hill presiding, the Council de- given to all freshmen, athletic can- two credits for Sunday services Hall from 1·:30 to 5:!00 P. M. cided to withhold nomj.nations for dictates, and any other students for and weekday lectures. Elections .of ·representatives to the the offices to be vac~ted this term whom such treatment is indicated. Council are governed by Article II until the permanent representatives It is hoped that all students will of tne Constitution of the Student of the fraternities were afforded an take advantage of this excellent Government which reads: opportunity to attend. Present offi- health service and help prevent \Art. II. Part 2. < b> Representa- cers are President Hill, Vice-presi- widespread illness or even epidemics tives of the three upper classes in dent Joseph V. Harmon, and Sec- which are a constant danger un- c-tegory (bl <that is, elected mem- retarytreasm·er John Grant. The in- der present crowded conditions. Students who fail to earn the expected number of assembly credits will be required to make up such c1·edits, doubled, in the suc- ceeding semester, and will be sub- ject to special action by the Com- bers, and not class presidents> coming officers will be voted upon ---- -- shall be elected from ballots pre- at the next meeting to be held senting a list of nominees, nomi- on Tuesday at seven o'clock and n?ted by petition signed by at least will be installed at the succeeding College Broadcasting Unit Elects fifteen <15) rr em hers of the candi- date~s class. The ballots presented meeting. Off• PI Semester to the resnective classes of under- During the discussion, it was de-l ' I cers a ns graduates -will list the nominees in cided ~hat the membe.rs of the prom I' : Program alphabetica} order. committee shall consist of the new I Under the head of Robert Br.ooks$- --- Old Council Counts Ballot preside.nt as Chairman of t~e da~ce as temporar·y chairman, UCRS has' . :\ 1 th o~hero> f1om the c.oun~rl actmg started what promises to be a very statiOns. UCRS with its FM re- \Each ballot must be marked for 1 1?- .auvisoiy and coordmahng c_apa- successful season. The permanent ceivet· will rebroadcast the games. the full number of men to be elect- cities. The names of the committee . . . . B . Pr.ofessor Buren Robbins, teacher ed from that class. Upon counting will be printed in the next issue of offtceis are Melvm Horwtth, US!- of the Radio Script Writing course . . ness Manage1·, George Norman, the ·ballots the outgoing Council the Concordrens1s. Public Relations Officer, Robert and a Dramatics course, is the sta- shall declare \S elected, men in each t1'ons faculty advr'ser It r·s ex- pected c Trio Will Answer Enemark, head .of the amateur · Clas's rece .I·vr'ng· the greatest number that some of hiS. classes wr'll take \Ham\ radio station, and Jim Og- of vctes. Freshmen representatives A committee of three-Hill. Har- ff over a few of the programs. Mr. shall be elected by the Freshman mon and Grant-· -wrs selected by lesby, station manager. The sta Shiff-Machor has taken over the Cla •-s 1 ·n the Fall of each year:\ the hody to form the Council's has been undergoing a reorganiza- . b f f 1 h . 1 d . h d · tion as a result of many of the JO o acu ty tee mea a vrser. The temporary Freshman pres!- answer to the attack publis e m dent who will be elected on the a magazine <The Christian A~so- staff leaving Union. Fortunately, A meeting of all those interested · t f elation Monthly) 1 ·n wh 1 'ch the fern- these men have been replaced by ·in joining the staff of the UCRS 30th of September will appom our 'II b h Id t th t d' · W h l ·n 1 ·ne author stated that the fra- former staff members returning WI e e a e s u ws m as - lT'ewbers of his class as representa- b H w d d h 25th t 7 tel .n 1 ·ty S\stem as it now exists, from Service. urn all e nes ay, t e , a tives to the Council. \ W'th th t t ff d I t d fostel ·s noth1'ng but d1'scontent on CRS P· m, l e presen s a an After class presidents are e ec e , U . which has had a larger · d · b t f t the Campuse ·s of Amei·ican Colleges. JU gmg y pas per ormances we it wiJI be their responsibility o ar- per cent .of campus listeners than t th' h f d The Coull - ci'l's response to this state- may expec IS year many ours o range for class meetings in or er any other college station, is now d t t · t f ment Will be found On anot her page goo en er ammen . to elect the additional class o - making plans to further improve If h · 'd of this issue. you ave any programmg 1 eas fleers. its service. As a result of a sur- give them to any membei' of the =:::.:.:::__________________________ vey taken during the Spring Term, staff. All will be considered. b Sf t R • f\ the wishes of the student body have 0 __ __ Outing Clu ar s eorgamza I On been made known and will be acted Fifty-five students were present • upon. The desire of many men for War Prisoners Meet Monday at the initial meeting of the Out- will not be consideied a student ac- a program of classical and semi- ing Club last Wednesday evening, tivity unless a student bec.umes an classical music will be realized. The Fred Wyatt and Gill Harlow are officer, Fred Wyatt announced. Dur- request club, which was so popular the advisors for the .organization. ing the meeting a discussion was la>:t year. wil lb<' continued, as ~ill Plans were discussed for futu1e held cuncet·ning the possible pur- I thE' news Hnd sport. summar~es. skiing, fishing, hunting, and square chase of three cabins fot use of the I N<>w ~ounrl ~roo!' s~udws ar<' ?emg dancing events. The feature attrac- club. These would be situated at 1 pl~nned, ~h1ch It IS ,hoped Will be tion .of the Fall season is the canoe Lake George, North C1eek, and in paid for m p~rt by local sponsors tl'ip on Lake George which will be the college vicinits. It was alw 0 ~ <>ni!Pge md1o progmms. ThE' de- n:ade in the company of Skidmore's stated that election plans will he : m·p of man_Y of th<' studPnt b?dy finest. F 1 ed Wyatt advises all inter- pcslponec.l until .the men~bet·s ha I'<' for thP rrm.tmufl nrf'. of hroarlrastmg ested students to sign up for the h~d rn oppo1tunity to hE'rome ac-1 a.fter 11 o clock will also be r<'n- affa.tr as soon as the list is made quainted with each othH. hzed. available because a limited number 1 The ad\ iso1 s and veteran mcm- 1 All foutball games thi~ year, at can be accepted. ben; cxp1 cssed the belief that the , hon:e and away, will be .bJ oadca::;t Membership in the Outing Club cluh faces a banner year. I 'by WGFM. one of the new FM Dr. C. Victor Brown, College Chaplain wishes to announce that there will be a dinner Monday night at the Y.M.C.A. for all fur- mer prisoners of war. The time has been set fur 6:00 P. M. and the1:e will be no charge. Henry Soderberg, Swedish Y. M. C. A. Sem·etary who toured· the pt isunet· of war camps in Europe during the wat· will be the guest speaket·. His topic will be \Europe Today\. Anyone wishing lu attend Is in- vited tu phone 4-9163 for 1 eserva- . t.lons by noon Saturday. EVERYBODY TURN OUT Price 10c 1 Union Graduate Returns To Assume Post As Garis Retires Tid marsh Organizes Glee-Club The fil'st meeting and rehearsal .of the Union College Glee Club and Choir, held in the Mountebank theati·e on Monday, brought out about 85 students interested in placing the College back near the top of the list of Men's Glee Clubs. This number corresponded favor- ably with that of normal pre-war years. Despite the fact that only three rehearsals have been held to date, Washburn Hall is reminiscent of the days of 1942 when the Union Club won a position of high honor in competition with many leading institutions in the Fred Waring Glee Club Contest. It may be re- membered that in that. contest, Union placed second only to Roch- ester University lThe Eastman School of Music) in this district and tpat Rochester won the final com- petition against Purdue and Wash- ington .State Universities. Tours Announced In view of the interest shown by the men working with Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, student manager John Morse has announced a list of pro- posed concert tours which will in- clude Buffalo, New York City, Bing- hamton, Elmira, Utica, and several other local cities. In addition, joint concerts with Vassar and Mt. Hol- yoke are in the process of being arranged. As in the past, a double quartet will be formed, probably under the direction of Student Leader John Randerson. More Openings Thet·e are still opportunities for additionai men in the club. Those interested are requested to report to the Memorial Chapel at 9:00 A.M. Sunday for try-outs and rehearsal before the Sunday morning Chapel Service, at which the choir regular- ly takes part. For the present, the rehearsal schedule is as follows: Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 12:45 and Fl'iday afternoon at 2:30. This schedule is under trial at present and may be changed later to con- form with other free periods. Special to the Concordiensis: Dr. Catter Davidson today announced the appointment of Dr. Charles William Huntley to the posiUon of Dean of Union College to succeed Dean Charles F. F. Garis whose impending retirement was an- nounced earlier in the year. Dr. Garis will leave his position this winter and will be succeeded by a man over whose wellfa.re as a stu- dent, he had previ.ously supervised. Dr. Huntley gradu~ted from Gnion College in 1934, having served as Managing Editor of the Concor- diensis during his undergraduate days, His education was continued at Harvard from which in 1938 he received his Ph.D. in the field of Psychology. He served as instruc- tot· in psychology at Radcliffe and Harvard during his graduate days and was appointed to the psych- ology department at Western Re- serve University in 1938. Youngest -Dean In 1941 he became Dean of Adelbert College at the age of 28. At that time, he was one of the youngest college deans in the coun- try. He comes to Union from Adel- bert and will assume his duties in February. Dr. Huntley is a member of the mid-West Psychologicol Aswcia- tion and an Ass.ociate in the Amer- ican Psychological Association. He was elected to Sigma Xi, national honorary scien tiftc society and is a member of Theta Delta Chi na- tional fraternity. Born in Schenect?dy, and grad- uated from Schenectady High School in 1931, Dr. Huntley is rrar- ried and has one child-a daughter. Garis Had Long Career Dean Garis, whose resignation has been announced last June, came to Union college from Laf· yette College as in instructor in mathe- matics. From the ranks of the Mathematics Department, Dean Garis rose to his present post. His entire life devoted to the men who passed before his desk, the Dean has often been regarded as a severe man by those who came in cont·ct with him. Known to many as an ex- cellent bridge player, he has been a familiar sight to many claEses both as teacher and administrator. Stories of Dean G- ris' austerity are legion as is the gratitude of the many 1r.en he aided in their quest for knowledge, An integral part of the campus community, Wean Garis is leaving an outstanding record for the new dean to match. Hale House and Snack Bar Hours Set That the food situation had been • -- ------------ -- ~~~l:~:e~~~;~~e :::r~~s:~t~ni~~ named the \Snack Bar\ has a seat- Hale House Dir-ector William South ing capacity of 400. last Wednesday. HP wPnt on to The change in hours of operation state that now fo1· the first time al- has been stretched for all meals most half the CollegP ('Ould he fed starting with an increase of twen- at one time in Hale House alone. ty-five minutes in the mcrning the The promising situation present- new time being 7:15 to 8:30, a half ed here has been brought about by hour jump at noon with lunch be- two important changes; namely the ginning at 11:30 Instead of 12:00, lengthening of hom·s of operation nnd finally a fifteen minute in- in Hale House and the opening of crease at dinner time, food being the old Navy Mess Hall that stands served from 5:00 to 6:15. The sand- where Hale House Gnrden once wich counter in the Snack Bar will stood to the student body. The old 1 be closed after 3:00, however, only mess hall, now reconverted and re-I seating students who buy dinners.

2 !ITem ber Associated Col- legiate ·Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National AdvPr- t i•ing Hepresentatlve: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc., College Publisher:; Hepresentati.ve. 420 Madi- \on Ave., N. Y. C. Pub· lished eve1·y Friday of th<' school year. C!.lnutnr \.1 Cms.J P.,r.r.t P,tro!e .1sr.1i\ MANAGLNH HOARH Editorial office. WaRhburn Hall. Union College. Puu- lication uffice, 'rhe Ga- zette Pre:;•. 33-1 State St. Ent~red ill lhe 8chenev- tady I lost Ot'fiee us St>{'- nnd Clas\ Mail Matter. ,ubsc-riptiou lUc a copy; $3 year; ,h.,livered anywhP1'fl lu the l'!iiteli State\. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1946 Speaking Sophonwrically, we re- Sept. lB, 1946 WHY ASSEMBLIES.'? sent. the allusion placed on liS by, . \ . ·M'•'•> I Thei·e has been a good deal of the assi- ned son title Not being, WHAT IS IN A NA \\· . th · d Y t t g fi d ·t th I Now that the N_ ava1 Detachment furo1·e lately over_the_ sub.,Ject of as- d·~· m 1 ~ fen ~p.e, w:h n 1 t/a ·fer 1 which graced Union Col'ege with 1 sembly .ar:d chapel attendance. The ·'\'Pilh r. ll!U\lll<ll>.... . E•lltor-in·('llh•f \lh..,·t 1\. IIIII....... . ........... SJliH'h Editor 1 ~cu ~ envis~o~t e n a er or •1 its presence for so ma~.y years, I college authorities, concerned by .Jnmo•• .\. Bna.r. ·........ . . . . ... 'ln·nag·in~ Editor ·''\\I'll .t. Bt•I\J\t\in.... . ....... lln,illt•\ ~l.nnnp;l'r sue a co umn. u · · · has left-that same Naval Detac·h- the fact that 50~'Y of the student ll.m·•·) 1'. lln\\lu•, ..... !'hwnlntiou 'IIIIHI~···r We fl_led into Dougherty's the ment which gave so much of itself body is taking .strictly scientific r.,.,.g,. '\\\!-.. \i till' i\n•· of THF c·o,c·oHII'IE'I;\I\ 1\<1'<' •.rll:t-t•n nu•l \\\\'·11!1 lr• -..tu•lt•nh tninl!: nut other mght and were con·fi·onted to preserve the physical plant cf courses, hu' outlmed a program In- ftlr t~h•• \-n,rluu ... Hll''•lit•nt.i.un lu'IUI'th.... b h d' 1 f I · b I d ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Y t e a•toun mg Qect~e o a Un~n C~l~e and Hs Fr~ffniti 9 t~~d ~ prov~e a more !an~ - 1 ~roup of the campus greats p~rtak- it seems fitting that we s'l1 ould. cultural badifround .for Unwn men 1~~ of .the P\el· present bt·ew man- in turn, decree the demise of a as they enter a rnode1·n technol0g- l1Clpatwn of the. long and dry ·naval term which now denotes the ical society. DEBUNKINl One of the unspoken. but neverthelesc; prevalent thoughts of the student body ~~t at the opening of the IW\\' tl-'rm is that of thl-' new scholarship program. \\'hen this pro- gJ am was announced late in the ~ummc>r, then' was nmeh speculation on the nwaning of the \cut\ s~·stem which prt'Vidt•s that Dea.n's List students m·e allowed Ulllimited cut:; as lung as the~· maintain their a\'erage. Other students are allowed no cuts. The new Hl'l'angemen.t also provided that Dean's List may not be attained \Yith a mark of less than C or with n:mre than one ·C. No sooner had the system beeome known than many students thought back to the \flunk\ list of last Spring· at which time some :i9 men were dismissed for ucademic deficiencies. It was but a short step f10m this thought to one which portended ill for the Dutchmen of the 1946--17 year. \\'ith the college enrollment up eighty percent, would not the Administration boost the list of dis- missals by eig·hty percent'! FLUNKIN' \\'ith this a:;;sunmce, we hope that the un- L·asy minds of our leaders will be brought to rest. It is definitely to the interest of the college to hold down the llUI11ber of men which it must dismiss. lt is T!IE COKCOIWlENSIS' pleasant dut~· to inform those woiTied students that there is not one iota of t1 uth in the pessim- ism which seems t0 have invaded the cam- pus. In an interview with President Carter DaYidson, we discovered that \Our feeling is that with so many students indicating that they are serious about school, the list this year should be the lowest in llnion's history. Last year's list was the lowest to date and the Dean's list was the hig-hest. The major- ity of those who were dropped last Spring were members of the Navy contingent. The pt·esent estimate of the Administration is that the flunk list percentage will be sub- stantial!~· lo\\'ei' than it has ever been to date.\ UNION'S KEYSTONE KOPS It has c~Jme to our attention of late that Union students are fast becoming \slaves to their public servants\. In short, we refer to the ineffectual and oftimes ludicrous minis- trations of the uniformed watchman and \Secret Agent X-9\ \Yho patrol the campus. First un the gripe list is that of the upper- classmen who were entering their fraternity house one night recently with young· ladies who were to join in a college pmty. Our in- imitable watchdog was right on the job (the wrong- place nt the wrong time). He ques- tioned the right of the students to invite women to the fraternity house and, until the president of the house h<td come out to spe<tk for them, it looked as thoug·h the young ladies would be denied admission. Second on the complaint list is that of an- other upperclassman who was returl)ing to his quarters after dark one night. As he crossed Library Field, he was accosted by the guardian or the peace and severely chas- tised for vvalk ing· upon the grass. This grass. by the way, was the same greensward upon which the football team had been holding- its daily scrimmag-es. It seems that our worthy policeman is suffering- under the impression that all students are forbidden the use oJ the college lawns. He proceeded to \quote\ or misquote the college rules to a man who has been at Union for a long·e1· period of time than has the policeman. It is not our pmpose to direct derision at the men employed by the colleg·e but we do fc:el that men placed in positions such as that held l.J~· the Ka.mpus Kop should be informed of their duties and the conditions under which they work. lt has been reported to us that fraternities have been given carte blanche on their party aspirations so long as the~· retain the necessary decorum and that the permission shall include the fairer sex until the hour of twelve midnight excepting regularly scheduled weekend parties. ln re- gards the second problem, we understand the college rules to mean that upperclassmen nuty use the lawns as they see fit within the bcunds of proper behavior unless signs are posted to the contrary. Freshmen, on the other hand, are restricted from walking upon college lawns in transit to and from classes and at certain other specified times and places. Officers, please note! The solution which we have to offer seems :;imple. First, let the officers become famil- iar with their duties and their olJiigations. Let them persecute and prosecute where such measures are called for. Let them, at the sametime, take heed of the rights and duties of the students who, we admit are the principal transgressors. Second, let the stu- dents take pm't in the necessary moves to make Union's campus one of serenity and 01·der. If all involved, students, faculty, vis- itors, and policemen, join hands to bring order to the chaos which now exists, in very sho1't time, Union will assume the desired qualities. AS YE SOW A good rleal has already been said about the question of working while going- to col- lege anrl we feel that this is the opportunity to express our opinion, and that of many other students on the camp1:1s, about this contl'Oversial subject. At the present time, the veteran at college seems to be the student who feels that he has to work in order to get throug-h his schooling. A number of peopl~ den~· this, saying that the veteran receievs benefits un- der the G I Bill and therefore has a·n income which should see him th1·ough college. How- ever, upon close examination, one might well wonder whether this income is suffident. A vetenm is given five hund1·ed dollms a ~·em for tuition and books. The raise in tui- tion and tl1e arldition of medical and student activities tax assessments has cut into this to such an extent that it is necessary for a large number of veterans to dig into their own pockets in order to buy the essential text books. Before beginning the year, it is necessary to spend more than is I'eceived. Already, for a number of students, work is the only solution to the pmblem of increas- ing- the income to meet increasing costs. The bills for room and board have also been increased during the past yeal'. The current rate for these expenses is still under the sixty-five dollar a month subsistance al- lotment, but comes so close to equalling that sum that a student again finds it necessary to find another source of revenue to meet th.e everyda~· expenses of cigarettes, toilet arti- cles, etc. The veteran is not the only student who rising prices have placed behind the eig-ht ball. l\lany of the civilian students on the campus have come here with a limited sum of money to meet their college expenses. Since the check on inflation has not been placed in action and since the college is rais- ing its prices has c0ntributed to the general trend of increased costs, we feel it only rig-ht that the College cooperate in every degree possible with those studentse who find that it is necessary to wCJrk in order to remain at Union. mo?ths of \.choolmg. In order. t_o soda fountain in Washburn Hall. Mnst of us will concur with this f · CJ!itate then· corr:sumptory actrv1- ·•scuttlebutt\ dues not seem to me objective, a J.eavening of the hli- Ues,. these men were vigorously .to •be appropriate for a civilia·n manitics ana the arts wHl tend to playmg a ~~~:'' Im.own a.s \Slap college canteen- not• do any -of the give the inaividual a better prepar- Bang, Snap m wh.Ich a gi:en man' ·\great traditions\ Ol' names of that ation for· this job caHed \life\. ma-kes the appropn~te motwns and naval unit ceserve preservat-iol'l. Once our agreeinel'lt on this point i:; punctuatPs :;arne With _n \:ord-any Thet•efore. I suggest that the obtained, we are faced wHh the word. The next man In lme piC·ks Student Body. under the auspices fact that cultui•e is li.ke .spinach to up the 1 ·-~ythm ; nd e.mlts another of the Delphics or the Concordien- many: something which is good f01· word wh~ch begws ~lt·h the letter sis, choose a new name for the you, something you've got to learn upon which the p~·e:vwus man ha_s fountain. Here are two for a to J.ike. We find that we've agreed e?ded. From participant to part!- starter: \THE NOTT HOLE\ or to t-he principle of compulsory at- elpant goes th~ tum of FOI tune u~- \THE IDOL HOUR\ both of tendance. Then, the only question til one man. Is unfortunate ( · J which ar·e in keeping with Union remaining is the time and since enough to m1ss. Thereupon, the en- t d't' 1 b th h · d the assemblage chants in unison ·l'a I ton. a. s now t·un . roug- mornmg an the words of an old mystic drink- John C. A:berts afternoon. we're left wit-h noon as ing song entitled \Chlig-a-lug\-and EDS. NO'I'E: The Concordy will the best time for assemblies. the victim. does. It doesn't take giadly receive any suggestions or But this whole idea hinges upon long for the enti-re group to become wi!J tabulate any such suggestions, the contention of the \Powet·s that well oiled. Thereupcn falls my tale. or act for the Student Body in the Be\ that daily assemblies are a In the natural process of eHmi- selection of a new name for the valuable means of broadening our nation, rr:an after man adjourned Washburn Hall fountain. Let's outlook. When they fail to do this, to the bacl; room for the pause that have your suggestions in the maH their existence is not justified and r·efreshes. As the number of recal- slot of the new Concordy Office. there is no justification for our be- citrants grew. the supply of H20 A carton of Chesterfields wiU be ing forced to attend them. Chap- in the Water Closet 1apidly dimin- given to the originator of the win- lain Brown is chat·ged with the I'e- ished. Still the exodus continued ning name. sponsibiHty of shapir.g a successful and still fudher dropped the water ----o--- program: one that is well above supply. When the tail end of the College Spirit Departmen.t the standards of past yea·rs. It's a merry-make1·s finally succurr bed to The fo!Iowing overheard said at hard job, but he may be able to do the call, alas. there was no more Freshman Camp by one Frosh to it. The next few weeks will tell. water, another while the latter lay grovel- Another thought -on the subject,- Stt-aight away came the cry·-fast ing on the ground, doul;>led up in if the a~sembly and chapel program gaining emphasis--\Come Lanalord, pain, after a hard blow t·eceived does have a definite educational Fill The Flowing Bowl\ <because it rather far below the waist when value, and this is purported to be doth run over). jumping for a basketball. \Smile the pl'imary reason fat· insisting And now, having fulfilled the de- you're a Union Man Now!\ that we support it, could not an ct·ee handed down to us, we take -------- --- hour or two of credit be given great pleasure in passing the lighted pect to see roll along with those who meet the attendance re- torch on to Jim Baar who we ex- \WAGON WHEELS.\ quirement? I Name Withheld) All-American -every year Here's th!\ It> am that continues to give Amp 1 ·iea Lhe finP~l telephone Reniee in tht' world: . A !!roup of As~of'iated Companies pro- VJd~s te_lephone srrviC'P in their respc·etive !Prntont>s. The Long Lines Department of A. T. & T. handles Long DistanC'e and Oven-was service. The Bell Telephone LahoratoriPs and 'Y1 est~rn ~lectriC' Company ai·e responsil1le for scJentdic researC'h ami thP mannfa(·t.me of equipment. The Ameri<'an TPlephone and TelPf!raph Company, throup:h adviC'e and assistanee co-onlinates the artivities of all. ' ThiR is thP Bell Telt>phone SystPm. '~houHandr-; of collPg<> graduatps hav(• Jlm 111 l tht>u· plarPI-i on this team of conumm i('ation experts atH( Ul't> making teJephon) a ('HJ'('I'l', There's Opportunity and Adventure in Telephony TELEPHONE S Y ST EJ11 FRIDAY, Fre~ As Friday Of Sec WithL Party, pa1 ffeHows-the the year·. T sor a sport Student Cou September from the he The danc1 introduce H class of 195( classes an( counterparts lege and th• If all expect affair shoul( minds of al Last term ran a seriE after athlet sion was cl was taken t freely did that the Co possessing t dance this hat-passing group of th were asked ister the pa Fie• To the st1 the name 1 up memorie music. Th( musicians a-: era! consen wH at least ticular critio If all ar pleted, the fication use' be in order. of the di: carnations colors, GreE for Sophom, Dates.! To aid th acquainted, was ins tit ut function. 1 all particip~ couraged tl again. The at the Stud! tween the and 5:00 or September l It is hop< of every Cl~ of the opp Since the d in conjunct game of th week end s: Tl 7:00 7:15 7:30 7:35 8:00 8:15 8:30 9:00 10;00 10:30 c:

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1946 I Freshman Dance Set Conco·rdy Rebutts 1 As Weekend Feature An~i-G_reek (~~.Ed: Umon V1ews Fra.t.ern1hes I Friday 'Night Rally Precedes First As Necessary Feature of I Of Seasons Fo·otbaJI Encounters Traditional College Life With Large Crowd Expected . Party, patty, party! Het·e it is It was revealed· today by various ffeHows-the first social event of sources on campus that extensive· the yeat'. The Del·phics will spon- plans have already :been laid fot' sor a sport dance, financed by the wide celebration of the oncoming Student Council, on the evening of St. Lawrence 'Weekend. First Iarge September 28th at Alumni Gym Footbal·l Weekend to be held with from the hours of 9 to 12. open fra·ternity houses in three The dance has been planned to years all concerned m·e attempting introduce the social Uons of the to outdo themselves in prepat•ation. class of 1950 to those of the other Beginning only one week from classes and to their feminine today festivities will officially com• counterparts from Skidmore Col- mence early in the evening with lege and the town of Schenectady. open fmternity bars throughout If ail expectations are reached, the the campus to be climaxed with a affair should be memorable in the gigantic pep-mlly of pre-war minds of all. dimensions being held on ·Council Last term, the Student Council Field. Plans for a bonfire of ran a series of! informal da:nces ora-nge crates piled twenty-five feet after athleUc e~nts. No admis- high are also being set into opera- sian was charged llut a collection I tion. was taken to defray the costs. So Pa1·ty Party freely did the college contribute Once again Saturday night is to that the CouncH found themselves be the scene of open houses along possessing the funds to finance a with the Student Councii Freshman dance this Fall without the usual Dance to be held in the Gym- hat-passing trick, As the service ttasium. Talk of large crowds is group of the College, the Delphics akeady circulating about the were asked to arrange and admin- classes and large migrations to ister the party, This is it! Sidinorek are a!lready underway. Fleming Will Play Although this is only to be the To the students of former years, first in a series of home games the name Frank Fleming conjurs climaxing in the Interfraternity up memories of sweet and/or hot Ball to be held over Middlebury music. The band consists of 15 Weekend there is no doubt in the musicians a.nd a vocalist. The gen- mind of the various committees era! consensus is that the band now at work that as Union's first wH at least satisfy the most par- post-war game nothing but success ticu!ar critic. can be expected. If all arrangements are com- Rah, Rah Union pleted, the system of class identi- With 1400 men now on ca:mpus fication used last year will again it is naturally expected that many be in order. This system consists win either not know or remember of the distribution of colored Union College cheers and songs carnations according to class and therefore it is hoped that dur- colors, Green for Freshmen, Red ing the next week they will famil- for Sophomores, and so on. iarize themselves either once again Dates.! Dates! Dates! or for the first time before the To aid the Freshmen in getting 27th of the month. The cheerlead- acquainted, the Date Bureau which ing squad has asked all to do this was instituted last year will again in order that all will go well not function. The satisfaction which only with Saturday's game but with all participants expressed has en- 1 the Friday night pep-raly as well. couraged the Committee to try 1 Campus laundry service has been again. The Bureau will be located reinstated once again on campus at the Student Activities Office be- with the Grants and Charles Stew- tween the hours of twelve noon art at Chi Psi Lodge in charge. and 5:00 on Friday and Monday, Collections are made on Thursdays September 20th and 23rd. with deliveries on the following It is hoped that every member Tuesdays. of every Class will take advantage Laundry to be collected should of the opportunity offered him. be left downstairs on collection Since the dance has been planned days and will be returned in simi- in conjunction with the opening lar manner. Married veterans and game of the Football season, the off-campus students may drop their week end should be enjoyable. laundry off at Chi Psi Lodge. illnurrbitu!lta STAFF MEETING MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 23 8:00 P.M. At one of the :o;eries of lectures held for the benefit of the incoming Freshman class, a 'booklet was di.s- tr.ibuted in the interests of cet\tain , of the college higher-ups. At the · time of distl··ibution, the uppet·class- ' men who did the circulation were ! defini:tely not aware of the c<omtents, i particularly one article by a Miss , <obviously·) Jean Collier of Iowa State University. It seems tha.t the reasonably winsome coed has, all by herself, reached the concl~:~sio!'l that Fraternities, as implied by Greek organizations, at·e naught but a de- triment to the existence of college men and women. So be it! At this time, we have no evi- dence that the article wa.s submit- ted to the Freshman class as other than an inclusion in the entire magazine. At this Nme, we must go on the assumption that there was no malice afore-thought. But, we feel that a rebuttal is necessary. Union College is rightly caHea the Mother of Fratel'nities. In 1825, the first social fraternity, in the form of Kappa Alpha, was fo~:~nded here. In subsequent years. a number of other fraternities came into be- ing upon the Union campus. All of these have long and distinguished records. Now, there are .seventeen natoinal fraternities located here. To the best of our knowledge, there has never been a serious complaint of mis-conduct in the form of dis- crimination acredited to any mem- ber of the Union chapter of the In- terfraternity Council. Fo1· over one hundred and twenty years, the Gt·eeks at Schenectady have lived and worked together harmoniously. Miss Collier, take notice. Miss Collier etates: \So much has been written, both in praise and condemnation of the fraternity sys- tem, that I believe a statement by one who has chosen to withdraw her affiliation ~r-ay be in order. For two years I have been a member of a national sorority. In that group I have found some of the richest and most meaningflil friendships of my life. But inherent in fraternity or- ganization there are certain ele- ments which are contrary to my principles as a member of a Chris- lion Association -and a citizen of a democracy. These principles are so fundamental that they outweigh-- for me at least-the social pleasures which fraternity life offers in such abundance.\ Miss Collier has stated that her sorority is contrary to her prin- ciples as ?. member of \ Christian Association and a citizen in a de- mocracy. Her petulant attitude ap- pears to us as nothing more than that of a spoiled child who has been denied a prize for which she has striven. Perhaps she was de- feated in an attempt to take of- fice . . . Has she not heard of the preparation which a fratel'nity <and probably a sorority) gives its members to fit them for the as- sociations which they will have in later life? Does she not realize that life is a series of competitions which are BARELY approximated by the competitions which arise in the yearly campus fraternity life of an American college. Of course, we realize that this article may be interpreted in much the same way as we have inter- preted that of Miss Collier. We make no false excuses for the fact that we belong to Fraternal organi- zaUon. But, we believe that this very fact enables us to rebutt the i u. c. R. S. SCHEDULE - SEPTEMBER 23-27 I I I WEDNESDAY I I ' ; MONDAY TUESDAY THURSDAY TIME I FRIDAY 7:00P.M. Top of Top of I Top of I Top of I Top of I I the Evening the Evening I the Evening the Evening the Evening I 7:15P.M. Music of Music of I Music of Music of Music of ! the Americas the Americas the Americas the Americas the Americas 7:30P.M. Campus News Campus News Campus News Campus News Campus News I I I Meet the Meet the I Meet the 7:35P.M. I I Meet the Meet the I I Bands Bands Bands Bands Bands ' Musical Musical Musical 8:00P.M. I Musical Musical ·sportlight Sportlight Sportlight Sportlight I Spot·tlight --- I 8:15P.M. Vocal Variety Vocal Variety Vocal Variety Vocal Variety Vocal Variety 8:30P.M. Grab Bag Grab Bag I Grab Bag I Grab Bag Grab Bag ' I i I I I I I ! 9:00P.M. I 3-1534 Club 3-1534 Club 3-1534 Club I 3-1534 Club 3-1534 Club I Requests RequP.sts I Requests I Requests Requests I I - ! -- ------, I 10:00 P.M. Classical Classical Classical I Classical Classical I Music I. Music I Music Music I Music ! I -~--- i 10:30 P.M. So Smooth ' So Smooth So Smooth So Smooth ' So Smooth I I I ' I I I -- I : I Additional programs will be broadcast throughout the day to supplement those that are regularly scheduled. Freshmen and Friend 3 Faculty Distaff Club Holds Party Refreshments and Weather Fine for Outdoor Affair The introduction of the clus~ of : 1950 to the Faculty, bath new and : old, took place last Sunday after- ! noon in Jackson's GaJ•dens. Under cle:u lllue skies, the Faculty Wo- 1 man's Club, assissted by the Delphic 1 Society served l'eft'eshments ta an estimated three hundred s! udent;; 1 and faculty members in the histot'ic 'and seasonally beautiful college gardens. The tea, an annual affair, 'has scheduled ?S the terminating Pvent of the Freshman 01·ientat!on PJ·o- gram which featured th<> fQrst week of the coll<'gP yea!'. It served as an mientation for many of the new faculty members and for nume1 ous upperclassmen who arrived on the ' st·ene eat·!y and stayed late. I Although both pt•dants ~nd stu- dents were loath to mix at the out- ; set of the affair, gathering in tight, · uneasy knots, the congenial atmos- . : phere and the cordial ministrations Dr o Carter Davidson Announces of the faculty wives soon intt·oduced I a spirit of c.onviviality. Four Library Stahf! ~p~~!ntments I ~=~~=~~.c;~~~:n~:~;~~:::r~J~~~~~J Four new appc.intments to t e I Wh'tt k · D · Sh ff . D. B . . . . . . . and of the Columbia University Li- : . 1 a et, 1. ? e1, I. aeon, Union College hbtal) staff were i brary school. He was employed by. M1: Webb, Mr. Wttner, ~t·. Swan- announced today by Dr. Carter the Tennessee Valley Authority· ket, Mt. Ketz, and Chaplain B10wn. Davidson, president. They a-re: I from 1934 to '193.9 and .Jater served These gentlemen irnpre;;sed the s f Ch on the University of New Hamp- ~o:1 ewhat uneasy new student:> with Robert B. ears o attanooga, shire Library staff During the their friendliness as they provided Ten.n., .and Harold C. O'Neal of 1 wa·r, he was a staff' sergeant with the pivotsa bout whi?h the ~tuden~s Sprmgf1eld, :Mass., as reference as-. a mdar unit in the European thea- became better acqu~tnted w.tth then ;;istants; :Miss Patricia Anne Peat-; ter. He is the son of Mt'. and Mrs. mstructors and then· classmates. W H S . f 1105 H· . St. t The Faculty Won:an':; Club Com- t·oss of Wellsville as assistant cata- · · eats 0 anovex 1 ee • I 'tt h d d b '· . . . .· Chattanooga mr ee, ea e Y ,,Iz s. Harl!son C. loguer; and Miss Ruth Anne Evans ' Coffin, <re deset·vi'lg of a vote of Schenectady as geneml assistant. Mr. O'Neal comes to U~ion from · of thanks for the excellence of the M , . d t f h I the U. S. Merchant Marme Acad- I event which was described as being •. r. :::;.ears ts a gra ua e 0 t e emy where he was assistant librar-~ the most imp1·cssive of the list ten- UntVerstty of the South at Sewanee I !an. A graduate of Springfie.ld J~n- dered the entering student~. The re- - ~--- wr College, Wesleyan Umverstty freshment:; provided by Mr. Wil- and Western Reserve University 1 . liam South, proprietor of Hale statements of a person who, having Library school, he has taught at House, consisted of ft·uit punch and sampled the system, found it want- Franklin and Marshall Academy,: pastry assortments. ing and withdrew. There is much · to be said both fOI' and against the Lancaster, Pa., Springfield <Mass.) 1 ______ o-~ article, and for that ·matter, for and High School, Tilton lN. H.> School· Male ReaBu'Jids Band and Western Reserve Academy at: · against our article. But, we say, Alth 1 B d 1 Ch . . Hudson, Ohio. He has also been li-1 · oug 1 an Director Charlec· a 80 as nstJans and citizens ·Of a bt·ary assistant at' Ohio State Arch-· Male refuses to commit himself, i1 democracy-live and let live. The eological and Historical Society of I appear likely that the Union Col- fraternity system can not be all bad if it attracts such members as are Columbus, Ohio, and order librarian i lege Band, issue 19·16-47, will be on~ yearly pledged throughout the coun- in the University of Maryland li-: of the best in the history of the brary of science. He is at present : organization. try. We grant that there are many faults but we do not see that they a resident of 29 Gilchrist Road, i At the initial t•ehearsal on Wed· can be corrected by the protecta- Great Neck, L. I. His home is at' nesday night, about fifty-five met. tions of one who has ailenated her- 127 Hastings Street, Springfield, wet·e present and although the ren· self from the cloisters of her only Mass. ditions were ragged in places, ob· tangible connection with the sys- Miss Peatross is a 1944 graduate servers stated that the band sound· tem. The Greel{s of many campuses ' of Goucher College and graduated ed better at the first attempt thar. have long realized their faults and from the Columbia University Li- has been the _case .in ;nany years. have m~ de setious efforts to correct brary school in June. She is the T_he band ts. ~ttl! m n~ed of e::c· these faults. Naturally, they will daughter of the Rev. L. A. Peatross penenced mustctans, partiCularly m not welco~r.e the frothings of a ft us- of 12 K Genesee St., Wellsville. I t?e daub!~ reed <bassoon, oboe) ~ec- trated person who claims that \no 1 . . . t10n and m the saxophone section. amount of improvement\ can alter Mtss. Evans ts an honor graduate 1 All students who possess talent that basic fact. of Smtth College where she was. along orchestral lines at·e urged to elected to Phi Beta Kappa. She is attend the next meeting. Weekly the daughter of Capt. and Mrs. J. S .. rehearsals are held Wednesday eve- Evans of 742 DeCamp Avenue, 1 nings at 6:45 ar.d Friday afternoons -~UNION COLLEGE INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL Schenectady. at 4:30. ------------------------------- CAREER IN PLASTICS 1heStoryof JIM PYLE JN 1935 Jim Pyle received his B.A. degree in chemistry from the University of British Columbia. , .• In 1943 he was appointed director of the General Electric Plastics Laboratories. • • • Eight years to travel from college senior to leadership in the laboratories of the world's largest plastics molder-the record suggests that perhaps Jim has found in his test tubes some secret formula for success. Jim's friends say, however, that the secret is merely a compound of two very simple elements: he was well prepared before he came to G.E., and he has worked energetically and imaginatively since accepting his G-E assignment. For the college student interested in plastics Jim.recommends as a preparation \a solid ground: mg m the fundamentals of chemistry, physics and mathematics.\ His own preparation for research comprised two years in biochemistry, two more years in synthetic organic chemistry and a final year in the chemistry of lignin. . At G.E: Jim found t~at the Company's process- mg of resms could be tmproved and improved it. He, was plac~d in charge of development of lammate plastics-and worked out a new line in less than a year. He helped develop new types of plas~ics materials, r:ew chemical products, syn- th\:ttc _fibers, synthetic rubbers, and ion exchange resms-each of them a milestone of his career in plastics. NeKI to Kehool!: and lho U.S. Government, General Electric is the foremost employer of college engineering graduates. One of Jim's special studies in college was an investigation of carbohydrate metabolism Today for G.E., he directs research in new plastics materials for the home GENERAL. ELECTRIC

4 Art. IV. Art. V. Art. VI. Art. VII. Art. VIII. .FRIDAY, SEPTEMB~R 20, 1~46 FROSH SUPPLIMENT Activities Boom /Thatcher Resigns To Take TtoJit<on> '\ \!\!~~!t!!o:~ moment, but '\ As s t~~eldS Heed i Government !:~l!.!!~s ,!,~sU~on Constitution (Continued from Last Issue! Part . .3 F.tilure of a member of the Stu- del1t Council to attend any two consecutive reguLu meetings will .tutom.ttically constitute resit;n.t· tion from the Council, unles~ thc: member previously notifies .mJ presents .rn .ll'Lept.tble t::xcuse to the Chairman of the CouHcil. In use of excusc:d .tbsel'lce, a member may send a proxy with wrrtten .wthority of the member. No membc:r m.ty be excused frum more th.m four ( -i) mect- rngs. Any v.teamis iH the Coun- cil so caused shall be reported to the Coordinator by the Secre- t.try withm forty-eight (·!H) hi:JUr~. The Chairm.tn of the Counul ~h.dl thtn jointly with the CuunLil dt.:termine the Illl:thod of JilliiLJ..: the \ ,\L.lnL}' mllc:Ss !>Udl Y,tcamy OLLUI' within .t rnunth uf ·the t.:nd of the year, Ill whid1 La~L· tht.: Counul ~lull proLc<:d without eledin~ a new member. A yuurum to co11duct a mc:eting shaH be tilteen members. A MAJORI! ).' vote of tht members prese11t shal1 be necess.try tu LUnduct husrne~s .md every member ~h.dl h.t\·c: CLJU.tl votmg power. P.trt. I. l'ne offiLt.:r~ uf tht.: Student l.ou11ul ~lull be .1 Pre~1Jent, Secret.try and Tre.tsurer elected from category (b). The officers of the Student Council sh.tll be elected by secret ballot of the student body from nominations m.tde by the Council. Part 2. The functions of the Chairman shall be; Part 3. (a) To preside at all meetings according to accepted parli- amentary procedure; (b) To act as Chairman of the Student Body; (c) To act as ex-officio member of the Student Tax Com· mittee. l'he L!uty of the St::uetJty shall be: (a) To keep rc::cord:s of all meetings and actions of the Student Council. (b) lo keep a hie unJer Jock in the ::,tudent Counul room o! all ;:cports, rewrds, LOr· respondence, petitiOns and otner wntten documents wl11d1 the Council sh.tll re- ceive and which are related to any aspect of the Student Government .tnd be .tv.til- able to the President and Set:retary at all times. Part -1.. The uuhes ot the Treasurer shall be to keep fiscal records of the Council, and to make a report at least once each term; the chairman of the Tax Committet:: to be the Treasurer, The order of busmess for the Student Council shall be as follows: (a) Roll Call (b) Minutes of last meeting (c) Old or Unfinished business (d) New business induding petitions, resolutions and proposals (e) Adjournment Proposals for action by the Student Coun- cil may be made to that body by any student or group of students. Such pro- posals shall be 111 writing and either pre· sented to the Secretary of the Council or deposited in the Student Activities Office. In either case, properly submitted pro- posals shall be presented to the Chair- man of the Council who shall deal with them as new business at the next meeting of the Council. The sponsor of the pro- posal sh,Jl be permitted to explain and answer questions on his proposal if he so desires. Proposals may be presented by the individual members of the Student Body, the Student Body as a Group, the Student Tax Committee, members of the Council, and any other ·tax-supported ac- tivities, or an officer of the college. Ope11 hearings shall be held before final action is taken by the Council. In regard to the spring elections for the Council representatives, all students will vole in the class in which they will be in the following year. Therefore, since the men to be chosen are to serve the following year the present Seniors do not vote, Juniors vote as Seniors, Sophomores as Juniors, and Freshmen as Sophomores. The Freshmen representatives to be chosen in the Fall at a date (prior to the tht.: produtcl uf yedf~. It is only natural, therefore, Rec·ru li'l'ng ca·IJ·s . I CoHege physics professor who tlut out of the long history of Your College there ' · · · · . ciety, were suspended durmg the I . . war years. N. ow, with .th.e. l'evival served as chief deputy .to. t .. he tech_- should spring a number of customs and prac!JCes that Freshman Record Started; , of extra·curnculat· actn'ItJcs, the nical direetu1· of the B1kmt atom1c .1r1.: obs..:n .::J from y~·.u tu ye.tr by tht:: ~tudt::nts, un- , Mountebanks are formula:ting plans : bonlb tests, has resigned f-rom the t .l th ' 1 d · t t 1 Mountebanks Organize as d d I · ese procemires la\'e assure .m 1mpor an p ace: · for reattaining their high stan ar . . f cult , to become •head of iH college life. New Director Takes Over of performance and student par- college a :V One of the earlit::st tr.tditions .lt Uniol'l is t:he large: ticipation. the research department of the The Freshman Record is due to The initiwl meeting· was con- Navy Electronics Laboratory at measme of self-government enjoyed by the students. reappear this year after a wartime. ducted by Mr. Robbins, !he direc- San Diego, CaHf., it was announced This freedmn dates b,tck to the time of President 'tbsence of several years. Th.e last toJ' of the . 01 .ganizaHon. .Several t0day by Dr. Carter Davidsoa, Elif')halet Nott who entrusted students with a great Issue of the Record came out ·m the of the former members came out II f '42 t d th 1 president. amount of freedom ,lt ,l time when college discipline fa: , 0 and represen .~ e .c ass for this meeting along with a few Dr. Thatcher has been on the w.ts encumbered with numerous rules and regula- ot 7 6 · The book was dlscontmued newcomers. Mr. Robbins empha- faculty of Union CoHege .for 15 durmg the war years due to the sized the fact that anyone inter- lions. If.! this same spirit, Dr. Nott not Of.!!y permit- adoption of the three semester year, ested 1 ·n anv aspect ·Of '·l:reatrical years. I h d hi f k h J ' Durin·g the war, he served as teL, ut encourage , the est a ishme11t o · the Gree · the loss of many students to t e production; technical, or dramatic; technical aide in tl:!e Office of letter fraternities, discussed in full me.tsure in an- Armed Forces, the pape~· sho.rtagef .with or without experience, w.ould Sclenti.fic Research and i:Jeve'lop- other section of thi~ publication. During the period and. the many other exlgenctes 0 be welcomed. Since the society is · ment in England, France and Ger- oi time when Doctor Frank P. D,t}' w.ts president I waB~~r the benefit of those un- ?eing completely r~organized there many. He was American repre- . . . . . IS ample opportum ty for everyone ' t t' to the British Radio ot the College and later when Protessor W rlham W. familiar with. t .. he Record It is a to be wm·ked into the schedule sen a Ive B d 1 t · d. f S d · · · ·mall cloth-bound book cont·lining · Countermeasur~s oar , consu tan Btnnett W.ls Co-or rnatvr O tu <:nt Adi\'ItiC:S, stu-j :' d. 1 . f 11 ' • Thf't·e is a meeting scheduled for t 0 the American British Labora- l d d ·d m H'ldUR p1ctu1·es o a entenng . · . , 'tnt ,f!O\'ernment .t \',lntc: r.tpl ly. , 1 re~hmPn with a record of statis· Monday evenmg, Septem·ber 23. at tories and a member of the ·Cam- / .. l \' 1 !3 1 I ti·cs 1 ,as't accomplishments and 7:30, ln the Mountebank theater! hines Intelligence Priorities Com- ',/< If·!) .Ill< ~lit ·Oih I ., ' I ·t d . w hb . H· 11 All' . t El t· . Ad. B d · , . . aspirations of each. It normally oc,t e m as ut n a . • mtt ee, ec J.omcs . v1sory · oar , Perlups the finest tr.tJi.tion .It 'l: OHr College 1> the i appears each fall, about a month interested are ut·.ged to attend. ! and Com:mittee o? Captured·Enemy sprrrt ol fnendly assoo.ttion both .tmong students afte1· regi~tration has been com- I ElectroniCs Equtpment. .He was .tnd between stUt1ents and f.tnrlty. Thi> finds expres·l pleted. CIL\.l'EL I'RtlGRAM 1 also ':ttached . t.o the :'-1r F.orce . · · . . . . ·. 1 . · .· ·,. ·! , . 1 , I Most of the material for the new 1 Techmcal hltelhgeRce, mvestlgat- ~1011 m :n~n} exti.t·turrrLu ar all~\ Itics \\ Krc .t Je m~n I issuP. ha:s al·rpadv been assembled; The following chapel schedU'le 1 ing targets and personner con- .md their mstructors meet 011 an mformal, socul basis. , there are stiH ; few photographs has been announced by Presi- nected with enemy electronics ac- dent Davidson's office and It. is. further manifested in the: very· generous .h.os 1 ' .u be taken and.the records of some tivitie.s. in Fran.ce. and Germany. Chaplain Bt·own: 0 pttalit}' extended to the faculty hy the fraternities. 1 of the late regtstrants have to be Sunday, Sept. 22 _Chaplain C. Duung pe1at1ons. Crossroads, 1 · · l! · f . h · f 1 f It 1 checlted. To further complicate Dr. Thatcher was ch1ef deputy to t I=> not at ~~ umommon Ot mem ers o t 1e. acu Y i matters the printers for the Record V. Brown . Dl'. R. A. Sawyer, technical scien- to conduct mformally, extra work of mutual Interest· are on !>trike. B'li'l'ing further dif- Tuesday, Sept. 24-Dr. Wag- I title director of Task Force One. wrth ,m,tll group of mc:n. The outward manifesta· ficulties it is expected that the new. ner, College Physician . He has a ring-side se~t at the t 10n oi this ~pirit finJ~ l:Xpressiul1 in the univer~al .~~uc will be ready for distl'ibutiun \Vedncsday, Sept. 25-Chap- .\larsh~ll Islands ~xploswns. The f · 1 j 1 1 1 in six to eight week.s Jain c. v. Brown , Techmcal Staff, With headquarters LLI,tom o ~ree.tm~ t te acu ty w lenc\'er t ley a~e met, In normal times the publication I in the U.S.S. Kenneth Whiting was and even callrng :t number of them by their first u: the Freshman Record is handled Thursday, Sept. 26 - ClaJ·k responsible for all instrumental Beckett, former Union Ex- n.tmes. In short, the spirit prev.tiling at Union is one by the Publications Board of the change Student from St. I measurements of physica•l phe- of intimate friendliness. College. This year the Boa1·d does Andrews University, Scot- 'nornena associated with the atomic not exist and the work is being land, now with Eastman- bomb detonations. Final reports on Tbe Idol handled by J. Harold Ripton, Direc- Kodak. these operations are now being While l..inion has these lint: traditions relating tor of Admissions for Civilians. If prepared in Washington. Friday, Sept. 27~.Musical pro- p rim.mly· to the functioning of students and faculty there are any past members of the gram directed by Dr. E. ----o . . . . Publ!cat10ns Board on the campus 111 .their r~latwns with each other, the college IS noll at present or any others with ex- Tidmarsh. Cheer Sheet for You Je\'Oid oi many which have grown spontaneously i perience in this field who weuld For the convenience of those who from incidents of student life m the past. Many ot 1 like to help get the Record on the Latest addition to the campus wish copies of the Coilege cheers these ct·nter around the idol, a large stone Chinese press.e~, con~act MI:. ~ipton in t~e ~ervices is that of the Post Office I THE CONCORDIENSIS will print h Adm1mstrat10n Butldmg. He wtll m the Green Room of the Mounte- them in its September 27 issue in a imat;<: gi\'en to the college many years ago by t e Hppt·eciate any experienced help he banks Hall. The new service will 1 clip shee form. Copies of the Cei- distmgushed missionary and alumnus, J. W. Faro- r.an get. I facilitate the onerous duties of the lege songs can be .obtained at The ham, '56. For years, the statue occupied an unim- Mountebanks Too- . l!nited ~tates I?ailmen in distribu- · Student Activities Office in Wash- port ant position on the campus. However, one night, The activities of the Mounte- tmg ma1l to Umon students. burn Hall. some students with an eye tor art, or at least color, banks, the college's theatrical so- p.tinteJ it. Others attempted to alter the color scheme, II - and changes became frequent. Finally the college i I moved it to a secluded spot and left it to the mercy f R E N c H of the student body. Now standing at the rear of the Gymnasium, it has become a center of inter-class rivalries and pranks. cLEANERS Afore ,;~nd More j A function which lacks but the sanction of the: I ye.trs to be (,llled a tradtt!On is the \Block U\ din_·.,, and DYERS ner, held each spring in honor of the students who han: been .nvarued official recognition for participa tion rn undergraduate activities. 129 JAY STREET • M,tny of the other customs continue throughout I the years are involved in the dass day exercises Among thc:sc are: the passing and drinking from the traditional \jug\ by the members of the graduating 1 \Reliable Service\ class, meetmg together for the last time, the smok- L ~ ing by the graduates of the traditional pipe, and the • plantrng of 1vy on one of the buildings of the school 1 J Phone 6-4295 l'he Class Day exercises take place in beautifu jalkso11's Gardens. Art. IX. Art. X. Art. XI. Art. XII. first marking period) determined by the j Student Council. , The voting will be at published places on i the campus by secret ballot under faculty ·~ and Student Council supervision. There will be ballots printed w1th the nominees I names. I The Student Ta.-. Committee shall operate under its present constitution Any changes in this constitution must have Student Council approval. Its mem- bers shall be selected by the Studenst 1 Council either from its own member; 1 or from the general student body 1 The Student Tax Committee shall be a permanent sub-committee of the Student Council. The Campus Chest Committee to be selected and operated as a standing sub-committee of the Student Council and operate in conjunction with the Student Tax Committee. All tax supported activities shall present reports lo the Student Council in regard to fi11ances, activities, and general policies at the fifth (5th) Student Council Meet- ing of each term or a11y other time stu- dent opinion may so demand. The Stu- dc:nt Council is to have general LOntrol over the various activities. It is not to interfere with the details of operation. In cases of violations of College or Student rules the Student Council shall carry the decision of the majority_ of a \SPECIAL' Student Body Meeting. Amendments may be made by: (a) Three-fourths (3 /4) vote on two (2) successive meetings of the Stu dent Council. (h) By a majority vote of the Student Body. In Schenectady lfs for SPORT TOGS COLOIUAL ICE CREAM CO. Ice Cream at Its Best 134 Mohawk Avenue Scotia Phone 6-3443 WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engrcnring Pens mnd the Finest Gifts Corner State and Center Sfl. THE GAZETTE PRESS Printers f1lle fS@llliJE00)]@!'if£@lf IEOO®II&&WHOO@ @~ ~ SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY STREET FR. IDA.. Y~ SE ! Gar l 'C' til- : r O()· '116 A_pp:rofl Fo.rSeG ' St, iLawreli 0 ppante nt With •the S• vgainst :St. L: awa;.;, Nel He forward to a pract·ice ·in thE much of the I us ty, play as tain, and conf putting :a c rir ·should be aile -the cutlook Lanies i's a t Co1ch HPin ever, for a pol this real;, ·~ ·cxpei·Ie need rn a situa t·iDn .t: I:oughly ·half t of fiesbmen. ·howeve r:, hav de a I of muse! l·o back it up, : t.he f.r:osh•.a re , part in. •l!Jnio1 ~his season. : T-wo Sy; f 1 Two system i the Dutchtn.en I long te:nure a: · York Giants inside track the \A\ .form! ~ used vv-ith g1 ll Giants in the nating this w! spread schen ! Garnet shoul< j quartet .with I ception_ Devotees of l win :be ple:as< of Union's sta ns rnarl\:smen f of the gamE 1 Strauss and ! are handy, sl I the bulls-eye ·< 1 ends on t-he s , seem to ·be SIE j The former p • in '44, until : j him, and New 1 to local fans a ·ll of the '42 elev Spezz1 Probably th: I on the team .I doubling as ll back,. the prid his weight in mole skins. P off for Penn night, llearnin has just given Inspired hy U bambin<J, Pete this fall. Enstice and previously, al1 --not to ment hall-cal\riers. ' is dependable needed for tho ganis througl Eustice, a h speed and sh fleld threat. The place- will .pr<lb!\bly Bartlett. The Lackie 1 ing. Bill How most gladiator good ·company Bob (\Ctushe fl'Om the '44 ,e handled by E merly Nott Te strong assista1 Short A captain w game. Annal for the St. L! forthco:rnlng. ·flnd Libmry 1 scrimrn.age. . devoted .to s edges off the work for the lot of neat r seen ·in the li will soon be l he was unfort his head step cussion no 101 him., . , It weeks <Jl' so b a dislocated again. . . - ' Union games, this season. , that R-PI wi: year, vvith rn stars back a1 making .plans and players I eye out for t ules. . . . ..At numbered' 49; freshmen, . ·changei:h. . .

4 Art. lV. :\rt. \'. Art. VI. Art. VII. Art. VIII. FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 2(), 1~46 FROSH SUPPLIMENT I Activities Boom Thatcher Resigns To Take I Constitution ·(Continued from La.st Issue l Part. -\ F.tilure of a member of the Slti- dent Council to .lttend any two r..:onsecutive regula.r meetings will ,tutomaticaliy mnstitute re~igna­ tion from the COLmcil, unless tht member prc:viou~ly notifies .mJ presents an .tcr..:eptable excuse to the Chairman of the Council. In rase of excused .tbsence, ,1 member may send a proxy with wntten .luthority of the member. No member may be excused irum mon: th.1n four(-!) meet- ings. Any vacancis in the Coun- cil so caused shall be reported to the Coordinator by the Secre- t.try within forty-ei~ht (-iS) hours. The Cluirm.m of .the C:ounl il sh.1ll then jointly with t lw ( oundl determine the ml'lhod of f1llin~ the \.ll.tnr..:r unlc!>s sctch v.K.tnr..: }' ouur within ,t month of the -end oi the ye.u, m which case the Council shaH proceed without electing a nc:w member. A <luorurn to condutt .l meetmg shall be: Jitteen members. A MAJORn f vote of t hl mcmhn~ pre~ent ~lull be m:u::,S.l!'}' to cunJuct husme~s and t\ ery member !>h.tll lw e e<JU,d voting power. P.trt. l. l'lu.: ulii~~.:r:. ui thL StuJwt C..ounr..:il :,lull be a Pre>Ident, Senetary and Tre;1.surer elected from category (b). The officers of the Student Council shall be elected by secret ballot of the student body from nominations made by the Council. Part 2. The functiOns of the Chairman shaH be: Part 3. Part 4. (a) To presiJe at all mectin~s according to accepted parli- amentary procedure; (h) To act as Chairma.n of the Student Body; ( r..:) To ,\Ct as ex-officio member of the Student Tax Com- mittee. I'he ciuty of the: SeLretary sh.1ll be: (a) To keep record~ of .1ll meetings and actions of the Student Co~tncil. (b) To keep a file under lock in the ::,wdent Counul room of all reports, reLOrds, LOr· respondence, petitions and otner wntten documents wh1ch the Counul slull re- ceive and which are related to any aspect of the Student Government and be avail- able to the President and Secretary at all times. The uut1es ot the Treasurer shall be to keep tiscal records of the Council, and -to make a report ,tt least once ead1 term; the chairman of the Tax Committee to be the Treasurer. The order of business for the Student Council shall be as follows: (a) Roll Call (b) Minutes of last meeting (c) Old or Unfinished business (d) New business including petitions, resolutions and proposals (e) Adjournment Proposals for action by the Student Coun- cil may be made to that body by any student or group of students. Such pro- posals shall be in writing and either pre- sented to the Secretary of the Council or deposited in the Student Activities Office. In either case, properly submitted pro- posals shall be presented to the Chair- man of the Council who shall deal with them as new business at the next meeting of the Council. The sponsor of the pro- posal sh.Jl be permitted to explain and amwer questions on his proposal if he so desires. Proposals may be presented by the individual members of the Student Body, the Student Body as a Group, the S:udent Tax Committee, members of the Council, and J.ny other ,tax-supported ac- ti\itie~. or an offiLer of the college. Open hearings shall be held before final action is taken by the Council. In regard to the spring elections for the Council representatives, all students will vote in the class in which they will be in the following year. Therefore, since the men to be chosen are to serve the following year the present Seniors do not vote, Juniors vote as Seniors, Sophomores as Juniors, and Freshmen as Sophomores. The Freshmen representatives to be chosen in the Fall at a date (prior to the Traditions Traditions are not lreated in a moment, bnt are the product of years. It is only natural, therefore, that out of the long history of Your College there should spring a number of customs and practices that .tre observed 'from year to year by the ~tudents, tin- til these procedures have ;Jssured an important place m (ullege life. One of the earJ,iest tr,tditions at Union is the large measure of self-government enjoyed by the students. This freedom dates b.tek to the time of President Eliphalet Nott who entrusted students with a great amount of freedom :It ;l time when college discipline w,ts encumbered with numerous rules and regul.t- tions. In this same spirit, Dr. Nott not Oflly permit- tt:d, but enwuraged, the establishment of the Greek letter fraternitie~, discussed in full measure in an- other section of this publication. During the period of time whell DoLtor Frank P. D.ty w.ts president of the Col·legt and l.lter when Professor 'Y<:'illi.un W. 1:-knnett wa~ Co-ordinator of Studtnt Activitie~. stu- dent ~ovemment adnnced rapidly F.totlt) StliJ<:Ilt Br111d Perlups the fintst tr.tdit;on ,\l Your .College is the ~pirit ot friendly a.~~ociJtion both ..unong studenb . md between stuuents .mJ i.tLulty. Thi~ find~ expres- >ion in many extr.t-LurriLLtl.!r aLtivit·itis where the men .tnd their instructors meet on an informal, social basis. It is further mJnifesttd in the: very generous hos pit.dity exten,led to the faculty by the fraternities. It i:. not at .til un,ommon for member~ of the faculty to conduct mformally, txtra work of mutual interest w1th ~m.tll groups of men. The outw.1rd manifesta- ! 1on of thi, Tirit tin,!:. ~xpt:ssion in the uni1 er~.d nl>tom of greeting the faculty whenever they are met, and even calling a number of them by their first names. In short, the spirit prevailing at Union is one of intimate friendliness. Tbe Idol As Students :Heed i Government Physics Post Recruiting Ca,lls $ Dr. Everett W. Thatcher, Union ciety, were suspended during the I College physics .pl'ofessor who war years. Now, with the revi,val served as chief deputy to the tech- Freshman Record Started; of extr·a-curriculat· activities, the' nical director of the Bi,kini atomic Mount -ebanks O\'gan'lz· e as . Mountebanks are formulating plans i bomb tests has resigned from the ' · for reattaining .their high standard ! ' New Director Takes Over of performance and student .par-; college faculty to become head of . . ticipation. I the research depa·r,tment of the The Fr·es·~maR ~ecor~ IS d~e- to, The initial meeti-~g was _con-1Navy Electronics Laboratory at reappear this yea1 after a war time' ducted by Mr. Robbtns, the· duec-: San Diego, Calif., it was announced ·_-tbsence 0f several years. Th_e last tor of the organization. Several ;'I toda b h y y Dr. Carter Davidson, Issue of the Record came out m t e of the Dot·rner members came out . . 'd t fall of '42 and represented the class for this meeting along with a few '_.pines! eTnh. t h h b th d o t' d . . I' a c. er ' as een on .. e of '46. The book was Iscon mue newcomers M1· Robbins empha- · 1 f i f u · c ll f ~5 during the wat· years due to the sized the fact that anyone inter-~ ac~ ty o nwn o ege or ' adoption 01' the th_ree semester year, ested in any a_ spe_ct of t_heatrical-ycDais:. th . h d the loss of man\ students to the . . h - 1 d . . uung e wat, e serve as ' . . productwn. tee· nica • or rarnatlc • technical aide in the Office of Armed Forces, the pape7· shmtage, with or without experience, would I . . . . . . _ and the mans 0ther exigencies of s· h . . , Scientific Research and Develop war. For the ,benefit of those un- familia-r with t-he Record it is a ,;mall cloth-bound book containing ind-ividual picture~ of aH entering tre;;hnlt'n, with a record 'Jf ~ta:ti~­ t·ics, past acc0mplishn1ents, and aspimtions of each. It not·mally a-ppear, eaeh fall, ab<Jut a month aftei· 1·egi;;tration has been com- pleted. Mo\t of the materia-l for the new issu'\ has already been assembled; there are ,;till a few photographs ,o be taken and the records of some uf the late reg i:strants have to be chPC'lted To further complicate mattet·s the printers .for the Record be welcomed. mce t e _soctety IS ment in ERgland, France and Ger- being completely r~orgamzed there many. He was American repve- is ample oppot~tun1ty fer e¥eryone sentative to the British RaMo to be worked mto the schedule. CountermeasurE!s Board, consultant The>Ie is a meeting scheduled fot· to the American British Labom- :\1ond~·y PYening-, :=:;eptember 23. at tol'ies and a member of the Gom- 7·30, -in the M<>Untebank theatet· 1 bines Intelligence Priorities Com- ~ocated in Washburn Han. All: mittee, Electronics Advisory Boa·rd, mtere>ted arc urged to attend. 1 aad Committee on Captured Enemy , Electronics Equ-ipment. He was i also attached to the Air Force ! Teehn,ieal Intel·ligence, investiga:t- 1 ing targets and person-nel eon- ' nected with enemy electrorrics ac- CliAPEL l'ROGRAM The following chapel schedule has been announced by Presi- dent Davidson's office and Chaplain Brown: Sunday, Sept. 22-Chaplain C. V. Brown 1 tivities i-n F-rance and Germany. nre on ~tl'ike. B91-ring further dif- Tuesday, Sept. 24 -Dt·. Wag- Du-ring Operations Crossroads, . D1·. Thateher was chief deputy to ·Dr. R. A. Sawyer, technical scien- 1 tific director of Task Force One. flcultie, it is expected tha-t the new ner, College Physician .''U<' will ht> t~•ady for di,tlibulion \\~cdncsday, Sq;\. :25 Chap- in ~ix to eight weeks. lain C. V. Brown In normal times the publication Thursdar, Sept. 26 _ Clark o: the Freshman Record is handled Beckett, former Union Ex- by the Publications Board of the change Student from St. Collego::. This year the Board does Andrews University, Scot- not exist and the work is being -land, now with Eastman- He has a ring-side seat at the :\T\ r~hall T~lands explos-ions. The I Technical Staff, with headquarters in the U.S.S. Kenneth Whiting was r-esponsible -for all instrumental I measurements of physica:l phe- llandled by J. Harold Ripton, Direc- Kodak. While union bas these fine traditions relating tor of Admissions for Civilians. If Friday, Sept 27-Musical pro- p rimanl}· tu ~he functioning of students and faculty I there ar~ any past members of the gram directed by Dr. -E. . nomena associated with the atomic bomb detonations. Final reports on these operations are now being ! prepared in Washington. -~-o--- . . . . PublicatiOns Board on the campus • Ill .their r:Ja.ttons wit~ each other, the college 1s not at present or any others with ex- Tidmarsh. i Cheer Sheet fo.r You devoid of tnany whtch have grown spontaneously perience in this field who would - ~ ~- For the convenien,ce of those who from incidents of student life m the past. Many ot like to help get the R~cord <;>n the Latest addition to the campus wish copies of the College cheers these center around the idol a large stone Chinese press_e~, con~act MI:- Ripton m t~e services is that of the Post Office 1 THE CONCORDIENSIS will print . . ' Admtmstratwn Bmlding, He wrll in the Green Room of the Mounte-, them in its September 27 issue in a Image gtven to the college many years ago by the Hppt·eciate anv experienced help he banks Hall. The new service will , clip shee form. Copies of the Col- distmgushed missionary and alumnus, J. W. Farn- can get. · facilitate the onerous duties of the lege songs can be .obtained at The h.tm, '56. For years, the statue occupied an unim- Mountebanks Too- . United States mailmen in distribu- Student Activities Office in Wash- portmt positiOn on the campus. However, one night, The activities of the Mounte- ting mail to Union students. burn Hall. some students with an eye tor art, or at least color, I banks. the college's theatrical so- pa.inted it. Others attempted to alter the color scheme, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .1nd changes becan1e trequent. Finally the wllege moved it to a secluded spot and left it to the mercy F R E N c H of the student body. Now standing at the rear of the Gymnasium, it has become .1 renter of inter-class rivalries and pranks. i More and More I A function whid1 !.tLk:. but the sanction of the;:, ye.m to be called ,1 tr.ldition is the \Block U\ din- ner, held each spring in honor of the students who have been awarded otficial recognition for participa- tion in undergraduate activities. CLEANERS and DYERS 129 JAY STREET • \Reliable Service\ • Phone 6-4295 MJn}' of U1e other customs continue throughout the years are involved in the class day exercises. Among these are: the passing and drinking from the traditional \jug\ by the members of the graduating class, meetmg together for the last time, the smok- mg by the graduates of the traditional pipe, and the plantmg of Ivy on one of the buildings of the school. fhe Class Day exercises take place in be.mtiful Jacbon's Gardens. ~ill~~~~~~~~~~~~~ first marking period) determined by the Art. IX. Art. X. Art. XI. Att. XII. Student Council. The voting will be at published places on the campus by secret ballot ~tnder faculty I and Student Council supervision. There I will be ballots printed With the nominees I names. The Student Tax Committee shall operate under its present constitution Any changes in this constitution must have Student Co~tncil approval. Its mem- bers shall be selected by the Student Council either from its own members i or from the general student body The Student Tax Committee shall be a permanent sub-committee of the Student Council. The Campus Chest Committee to be selected and operated as a standing sub-committee of the Student Council and operate in conjunction with the Student Tax Committee. All tax supported activities shall present reports to the Student Council in regard to finances, activities, and general policies at the fifth (5th) Student Council Meet- ing of each term or any other time stu- dent opinion may so demand. The Stu- dent Council is to have general control over the various activities. It is not to interfere with the details of operation. In cases of violations of College or Student rules the Student Council shall carry the decision of the majority_ of a \SPECIAL\ Student Body Meeting. Amendments may be made by: (a) Three-fourths (3/4) vote on two (2) successive meetings of the Stu- dent Council. (h) By a majority vote of the Student Body. In Schenectady for SPORT TOGS COLONIAL ICE CREAM CO • Ice Cream at Its Besf 134 Mohawk Avenue Phone 6-3443 Scotia WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repe!iring and Engraving Pens and the Finest Gifts Corner State and Center 5h. THE GAZETTE PRESS Printers FRIDAY. Sl Gar Footba Approt For Set St. Lawrel Opponent With the E nga·inst St. L away, Mel H' forward to a practice i-n th nnlCh of t·he rusty, -play a: lain·, and con putting a cri should be wll the outlook La·rries is a Co!'tch H~in ever, for a pc this year . experienced r a situation 1 roughly half uf freshmen. however•, ha deai of muse to back it up, the f rosn are part 111 Uni< this season. Two Sy Two systen the Dutchme· long tenure ~ York Giants inside track the •• A\ forrr used with € Giants in the nating this v spread sche Garnet shou quartet with ception. Devotees o will be plea: of Union's st as marksmer of the garr Strauss and are handy, : the bulls-eye ends on the seem to be S1 The former in '44, until him, and Ne· to local fans of the '42 ele SpeZ' Probably t! on the tear doubling as back. the pri his weight il mole skins. off for Pen night, beami has just give Inspired by bambino, Pel this fall. Enstice ar previously, a -not to mm ball-carriers. is de penda b!E needed for tl ganis throu1 Enstice, a speed and s field threat. The placE will probabl Bartlett. The Lackie ing. Bill He most gladiat good compar Bob (\Crusl: from the '44 handled by merly Nott 'l strong assist Shm A captain game. Ann for the St. l forthcoming. find Library scrimmage. devoted to edges off th work for th lot of neat seen in the will soon be he was unfo his head stE cussion no J him .... I weeks or so a dislocated again .... Union game: this season. that RPI ' year, with stars back making plar and players eye out for ules .... J numbered 4! freshmen .. changeth ..

946 t who the d of the at the 15 as of Ger- emy was con- ac- y to the The was phe- who eers in a Col- The FR.IDA..Y~ SEPT•EMBER 20, 1946 5 i G~ rnet G~idders In Full Swing; X-Country Team Drilling : Fo()tball Team Is ---- -- ---- Thine the Song We ------ App:roacl:tingPeak F'o.r Season :Opener ' St. iLawrl>nce Is !first 0 ppaHte nt for IJut ch men I With •the season's ·opening game vgainst :St. Lawt•eAce only a week awa;.:, Nel Hein's clmrges can look forward to a good deal of bruising pract.ice ·in the next few days. With much- of the r,quad still physica]i]y 1 usty, play assignments still uncer· tain, and conflicting class schedules putting :a crimp into the time thM should be allotted pigskin practice, lim cutlook aga.inst the rugged Larries i's a bit hazy. Co1ch HPin holds out hopes, ·lww- ever, for a potentially strong eleven this yea1•. 'The presence of in- ·cxpel·le need men in key positions i\ a silua t-ion .tu be t·eckoned with, 1:oughly ·half the team is composed uf f.Iesl:!men. A number of these, ·howevc 1:,. have exhibited a good de a I of mu.scle, with the poundaJge t·o back it up, and it looks as thougn t.he f.!:osh:.a re going to play a major part in. •l:Jnion's gridiron fortunes ~his season. T-wo Systt>-ms Employed Two systems wnt be employed in the :Dutclun.en's attack. Mel Hein's long te:nure as center for the New York Giants has given him the inside track on the intr.icacies of the \A' • formation, wMch has been used vv-ith great success by the Giants in the past few years. Alter- nating this with a single-wing and spread schemes of offense, the Garnet should field a fast, shifty 1 quartet .with the emphasis on de- l ception_ Devotees of the wide-open game win :be pleased to note that four l of Union's stalwarts have qualified , ns marksmen in the aerial phases j of the game; Enstice, Whalen, 1 Strauss and Bartlett, if receivers ! are handy, should be able to hit I the bulls-eye ·consistently. The only ~ ends on -the squad with experience ; seem to ·be Stegemann and Newton. 1 The former promised great things i l in '44, until a leg injury hobbled him, and Newton is already known ' to local fans as one of the stalwarts ·ll of the '42 eleven. S(lezza.n.o Versatile I I Probably the most Yersatile man on the team is Pete Spezzano; .I doublin35· as guard and blocking ll back,. the pride of Bristol is worth his weight in shoulder guards and mole skins. Pete, incidentally, took off lor Pennsylvania Wednesday night, 'beaming happily; his wife has just given birth to a baby girl. Inspired hy the arrival of the new bambino, Pete should be dynamite this fall. Enstice and Whalen, mentioned previously, also qualify as kickers --not to mention their prowess as hall-cal\riers. Whalen, big and fast, is dependable as the explosive force needed for those all-important short ganis through the middle, while Enstlce, a hip-swinger, combines speed and shiftiness as an open- fleld th rcut. The place· kicking departmen~ will pr<lbl\bly be handled by Bob Bal'tlett. The Lackie situation is encourag- ing. Bill Howard, one of '42's fore- most gladiators, is back; he'll be in good ,company, for Tom Crone and Bob (\Crusher\) Keane are .back ft·om the '44 eleven. Center will be handled by Harold Schaeffer, for- merly Nott Terrace pivot man, with st1·ong assistance from Fritts. Short Passes . • . . A captain will be elected for each game. Announcement of skipper for the St. Lawrence .set-to is still forthco:rnlng. . . . Saturday will ·flnd Libmry Field well churned in scrirnrrutge. . . . Next week will be devoted .to smoothing the rough edges off the plays. . . , Contact work for the line. . , . There's a lot of neat mouse-trapping to be seen ,in the line. . . . Jack Weiss will soon be back at full strength; he was unfortunate enough to have his head stepped on, but the con- cussion no longer seems to bother him, , . , It wiH be another three weeks or so before Personeus, with a disl~>cated shoulder, can report again. . , • WGFM will broadcast Union games, both home and away, this season. . • . Reports have it tha.t R-PI will be dangerous this year, vvitb many of their former stars back again. . . . UCRS is making .plans to interview coaches and 'Players this season; keep an eye out for their published sched- ules. , . , ..At last count, the squad numbered' 49 1 among whom 26 were freshmen, . The old order ·changei:h. • . • Over Forty Candidates Report To Coach fred Wyatt As Former Lacrosse Ace Will Not Return Here Fall . Lacrosse D,rills Beg.in; New Trophy Announced t.h~ 0 ~~.h~ro 0 ~~~a~n~~~~~. l'~~eevi~~ Upwards of 40 candidates an- S.------ ------ __ ______ _______ Union's all-time lacrosse greats, will swered Coach Fred Wyatt's first not return to Union College. Tun- call for .fall lacrosse practice Thurs- Coonan, By George, Bill Grant, Don more and engage Johns Hopkins on stall found that he could not take day afternoon. Many of the men Hovey, Charlie Howe, \Whitey\ this jaunt, the courses he desired at Union and that participated in the opening Markes, Bob Reisner, Clem Tom- Wyatt has announced the annual subsE'quently transferred to Johns drills held on Graduate Council !ins, Don Treanor and Ray Tuthill. award of a trophy in the form of Hopkins Univet·sity in Baltimore, Field were members of the 1948 Each of the experienced men on a 20mm. sheH case. Each year the his native city. Garnet ten which engaged in com- the squad will be assigned to work name of the outstanding lacrosse As a freshman on the Garnet petition under the name of the with a squad of from two to fom· player will be inscribed upon this Varsity lacrosse team in 19{ 2 , Mohawk Lacrosse Club. Several neophytes. Under the direction af trophy. Tunstall led the scoring attack of former Union players and a num- Wyatt, these men will practice and Bob \Whitey\ Markes, of Amster- a team which lost on!,- one game. ber of newcomers to the game lea1·n the fundamenta~s . of the dam, was the flrst Union player to At that time he was acclaimed as played lly the Indians in this sec- I fame. In th~s manner 1t .1s hoped be thus honored. Markes was one the greatest attack ever to wear a tion of the country centuries ago I ~hat by th<; time the. Vars1ty opens of the stars of the Garnet team last . Garnet jer.;;ey, After enlisting in were also in attendance for the fall It~ season In the sprmg, every man year and is expected to continue his the Marines, he was sent to Cornell ~ession. Will be well qualified in the stick fine playing with the additional ex- University. While at Cornell in handling department. pert'ence he has · d · h Ryan Heads List game smce e 1944, he played with the Big Red Vinnie Ryan was foremost among Schedule Pending first hand·led a stick last spring. As ten and was named to the All- ' he th t h 1 d t u · T a freshman, he was Union's nomi- American team. : men a ave p aye a man he schedule for the varsity is· nee for the annual North-South m years gone by. Among the mem- still pending but a renewal of the game which was held in Baltimore Tunstall was Union's nominee in bers of the 1946 team who reported annual pre-season trip to Maryland last spring. He also earned a Block the North-Sot~th contest of 1942 and for practice were Ralph Bainbridge, 1 is expected. Wyatt expects to enter ·u· as first string guard on the scored the opening goal in that Phil Brady, By Chapman, Gerry i the rabid lacrosse section of Balti- basketball team last winter. fray. His stellar work as an attack ________ ·- -~--·----------~--..:..:_:::.:..:_::_=:_..::::::.::_....::..:=:.:_: __ ~ contributed materially to the Army, Notre Dame Chosen I North's victory. He was a member 'S ixteen Co.nt.ests . of the undefeated Mt. Washington ' t<>n of Baltimore last season and L d • G • d C t , d F t d 194L was the outstanding man on the (E~sanot}~l! previe?:~o the:!>- on en e rs --~ I ea ure on 0 o- I ~ttack, -~~o-~- column which we hope to run I . . . . . · 1947 Cage L1ne-up 1 Games Broadcast by VCRS weekly beginning with our next Fat sectiOnal champions, the art!· A . t For the first time Union students issue 'listing the predictions of cle lists: Army, East; Notre Dame, I rx ~n.gam~basketball sct~.ed-1 will be given the' oppot·tunity of vari~us campus athletic sages of I Midwest; Duke, South; Alabama. ~- e 1 or man ollege, renewmg' hearing the broadcast of both home current games we are running in I Southwest; Oklahoma A & M, Mis- II IVa. ryt scuslpentded for several years i ·~nd away games over UCRS ' 1 souri Valley· Colorado U R ky 1 agams o ga e and Dartlrouth and' th ' this issue a summary of an article 1 • • • • • • oc , including traditional rivals such as i rough the courtesy of WGFM. written by Francis Wallace in The' Mountam, USC, PaCific Coast; Yale, I H 'It R h t . . I It has been rumored that the New Saturday Evening Post) I Ivy League; and Ohio State, Big i RaPmi 1 on, oc es er, Wtlliams, and ' York Alumni have hired a wire so · Ten . · · ., was announced recently by · Army, Notre Dame and Alabama,; · \ . , J. Harold Wittner director of ·th- I that they, also, may heat· the game. in that order will be at the top of ' Big Games • letics. ' < ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ the college football heap when the For the \big games\ of the' year The schedule: If~ whistle ends the 1946 campaign for the Post forecaster picks: Sept. 28 Dec. 7, Colgate at Hamilton national gridiron honors in Decem- -Not:·e Dame over Illinois; Oct. Dec. 9, Dartmouth at Troy. · : ber, according to Francis Wallace, 5-0hw State o.ve~ USC; Oct. 12- Dec. 11, Williams at Williamstown. I The Saturday Evening Post's Army. over Michigan; Oct. 19- Dec. 13, Hobart. : \prophet\, who is resuming his an- Georg1a over Oklahoma A & M; Dec. 18, Hamilton. ' nual pre-season football forecasts Oct. 26-Penn over Navy; Nov. 2- Dec. 20, St. Lawrence after a three-year lapse because of Alabama over Georgia; Nov. 9- Feb. 8, Brooklyn Poly 'at New York. the war. Army over Not1·e Dame; Nov. 23 Feb. 12, Middlebury. 200 Experts Participate ···Oh1o State over Michigan; Nov. Feb. 15, R.P.I. at Troy. More than 200 experts~coaches, 30-Army over Navy. Feb. 21, Hobart at Geneva. publicity men, commentators and All-American Selections Feb. 22, Rochester r t Rochester. sports writers-participated in the There is a wealth of outstanding Feb. 26, Stevens. survey on which Mr. Wallace bases material on the gridiron this sea- Mar. 1, R.P.I. his predictions in an article in this son and Mr. Wallace has selected Mar. 5, Hamilton at Clinton. week's Post. In s!x previous pre- what he considers will be the All- Mar. 8, Trinity at Hartford. views, Mr. Wallace has averaged 1 American team for 1946. · Mar. 15, Wagner. better than .500 per cent in spotting ir=============~• the leading trends, teams and play- ers. Following Alabama in his na- tional ranking, Mr. Wa;]lace places in order: Ohio State, Texas, Illinois, San Francisco, Yale, Michigan, USC, Georgia, Penn, Duke, Navy and Oklahoma A. & M. SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phofl1e 4·5676 114 STATE Near FERRY WE HAVE SERVED UNION MEN SINCE 1911 MAURICE B. GRAUBART and SONS The Jay Street Jeweler 166 Jay Street LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS I J I J Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET _I JAMES F. BURNS • EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL • 206 CLINTON STREET APPLETON'S 1671f2 JAY STREET Next to Minham's Men's Shop • COMPLETE SHOE REBUILDING • Zippers Replaced on Anvt&ing! MILK Vitamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady. N. Y. PHONE 6·2351 MINHAM'S MEN'S SHOP McGregor Sportwear Manhattan Shirts Lee Hats Rochester Tailored Clothing 169 JAY ST. i ----- WE NEED YOUR HEAD IN OUR BUSINESS ACME BA.RBER SHOP 509 UNION ST. [Daily Drills Are Designed to Prep Runners for Wins l\etzmen Please t:oach Ill First Course Runs Coach Bill Ketz has his cross- ~ount1·y squad working hard to get in ~hspe for U:e cpening meet of the season at Rochester on Octobet· 5th. Over 30 nun 1eported to Ketz for the initial practice Mcmday af- tel·noon and he has utilized every rni.nute of time tu mould them into a winning combinutiov.. A!te1· intC'n~ive p1·eliminary wm·k- uuts :Viu'nday, Ketz ran his char.ges over the four and seven-tenths mi1e comse Tu<•sday afternoon a-r.d was im]Jre~sed with thdr showing. He rxpecb to havP tl:w haniers run- ning the full distanC'P almost every day to familiarize them with the course and the pace they will have to maintain to win laceti. Hopeful Expectatlons Ketz has expectations of a suc- cessful season even though the schedule is one of the toughest the Dutchmen have faced in a long time. The IC4A cross-country championships in New York City on Nove-mbPr 16th are the main ob- jective of the hill and dalers for the season. Ketz plans to take as many of the squad as show promise to that event and hopes that the Dutchmen will make a good show- ing in that race. . ~nother trip to New Yot·k City IS m prospect for the long-winded boys on October 26th when they tackle the Brooklyn Poly runners. Five other top notch opponer.ts are slated on the schedule. Four Veterans Four veteran runners from for- mer cross-country and track teams will form the nucleus of the team Ketz will race this year, Three of these men earned Block 'U's' on Garnet hill and dale teams and the fourth earned his letter as the out- standing miler on the track squad last spring. Newt Culver, Clayt Long and Don Brightman are the three former harriers. All have had extensive experience in long dis- tance running. This trio coupled with Gil Hicks, miler of the 1946 l!·ack team, look good in practice and give promise of showing their heels to more than one opposing hanier. Several promising freshmen have also come to the attention of Coach Ketz. Cassidy and Cohen are two ft'eshmen whom Ketz thinks show a lot of promise. Ketz figures that these men will play a prominent part in Union's cross-country for- tunes. Guy Mattson, who ran cross-coun- ti'Y as a fershman, has returned to the team and looks like a C·Ontend- er for one of the leading positions. In addition, three half-milers from the track team are trying the longer distance this fall and figure to blend in with the experienced men. Dan Sharpe, Hal Larkin and Fred Steigert are the half-milers. STYLES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY $6.50 to $12.00 ON & HALL X-RAY FITTING 245 State St. for 50 Years FERRO'S RESTAURANT Spaghetti and Meat Balls Our Specialty 1115 BARRETT STREET Cleanel'S and Dyers Ball''s shoe In Rebuilders c. 633 State St. 204 Union St. PHONE 6-3456 Call Ball and Ball Will Call

of at he T5 as of Ia he on ng ho ol- FR:IDA:Y. SEPTEMBER 20, 1946 5 Garnet Gridders ln Full Swing; X -Country Team Drilling F()otball Team Is® Approaching Peak For Season Opener St. Lawrence Is Fil'st Opponent fer Dut-chmen With the season's opening game aga·inst St. Lawrence only a wee'k a way, Mel He in's charges can look forward to a goocl deal of bru:ising practice i-n the next few days. With nnJCh of t·he l>quad .still .physically rusty, play assignments still uncer- tain·, and conftict.Fng class schedules putting a crimp into the time that should be wllotted pigskin practicP, the uutlook against the 1 ugged La·rries is a b1t hazy. Co:ctch Hein holds out ho.pes, how- ever, for a potential'ly .stmng PlPven this year. The p!'esence of in- experienced men in key .positions is a situation to -be reckoned with, t'oughly half the team is composed uf freshmen. A number of these, howevc1•, have exhibited a good deai of muscle, with the poundage to back it up, and it looks as thougn the frosn are going to pl'ay a major part Hl Union'• g1·idiron follUne• this season. Two Systt>ms Employed Two systems will be employed in the Dutchmen's attack. Mel Hein's long tenure as center for the New York Giants ha.s given him the inside track on the intricacies of the \A\ formation, which has been used with great success by the Giants in the past few years, Alter- nating this with a single-wing and spread schemes of offense, the Garnet should field a fast, shifty quartet with the emphasis on de- ception. Devotees of the wide-open game will be pleased to note that four of Union's ~talwarts have qualified as marksmen in the aerial phases of the game; Enstice, Whalen, Strauss and Bartlett, if receivers are handy, should be able to hit the bulls-eye consistently. The only ends on the squad with experience seem to be Stegemann and Newton. The former promised great things in '44, until a leg injury hobbled him, and Newton is already known to local fans as one of the stalwarts of the '42 eleven. Spezzano Versatile Probably the most versatile man on the team is Pete Spezzano; doubling as guard and blocking back, the pride of Bristol is worth his weight in shoulder guards and mole skins, Pete, incidentally, took off for Pennsylvania Wednesday night, beaming happily; his wife has just given birth to a baby girl. Inspired by the arrival of the new bambino, Pete should be dynamite this fall. Enstice and Whalen, mentioned previously, also qualify as kickers -not to mention their prowess as ball-carriers. Whalen, big and fast, is dependable as the explosive force needed for those all-important short ganis through the middle, while Enstice, a hip-swinger, combines speed and shiftiness as an open- field threat. The place- kicking departmen~ Will probably be bandied by Bob Bartlett, The Lackie situation is encourag- ing. Bill Howard, one of '42's fore- most gladiators, is back; he'll be in good company, .for Torn Crone and Bob (\Crusher\) Keane are back from the '44 eleven. Center will be handled by Harold Schaeffer, for- merly Nott Terrace pivot man, with strong assistance from Fritts, Short Passes . . . . A captain will be elected for each game, Announcement of skipper for the St. Lawrence set-to is still forthcoming. . . , Saturday will find Library Field well churned in scrimmage ... , Next week will be devoted to smoothing the rough edges off the plays. . . . Contact work for the line. . . . There's a lot of neat mouse-trapping to be seen in the line. . . . Jack Weiss will soon be back at full strength; he was unfortunate enough to have his head stepped on, but the con- cussion no longer seems to bother him. . . , It will be another three weeks or so before Personeus, with a dislocated shoulder, can report again. . , , WGFM will broadcast Union games, both home and awa~, this season. . . . Reports have 1t that RPI will be dangerous this year, with many of their form~r stars back again. . . . UCRS IS making plans to interview coaches and players this season; keep an eye out for their published sched- ules. . • , At last count, the squad numbered 49, among whom 26 were freshmen, . . . The old order changeth .... Thine the Song We Sing Over Forty Candidates Report To Coach Fred Wyatt As Fall lacrosse Dril.ls Beg.in; New Trophy Announced Upwards of 40 candidates an- ~ swered Coach Fred Wyatt's first C B G B'll G t Don II f , f 11 1 cr , t' Thurs oonan, y eorge, I ran , ca or a a osse ptac Ice - Hovey Charlie Howe \Whitey\ day afternoon. Many of the men ' . ' that participated in the openi-ng ~arkes, Bob Reisner, Clem To:n- rlrills held on Graduate Council I hns, Don Treanor a~d Ray Tuthill. Field were m7mbers of t~e 194B th~~~~aod !,~~ ~~P=~~~:~=~ ~e~o~~ Ga~n.et ten Which engaged 10 com- with a squad of from two to four petitiOn under the name of the . . M h k L Cl b S 1 neophytes. Under the d1rectwn of - o aw ·. acrosse u · evera Wyatt, these men will practice and former Umon players and a num- J.:arn the fundamentals of the ber of newcomer~ to . the . game I game. In this manner it is hoped played by the Indians m th1s sec- th t b th t' th v 't tion of th.e country centuries ago i Hsa sea~on ~n ~r::: sp:ing~r:~.;;,yo:~~ were also m attendance for the fall : will be well qualified in the stick session. handling department. Ryan Heads List Vinnie Ryan was foremost among Schedule Pending the men that have played at Union The schedule for the varsity is in yea.rs gone by. Among the mem- still pending but a renewal of the bers of the 1946 team who reported 1 annual pre-season trip to Maryland for practice were Ralph Bainbridge, 1 is expected. Wyatt expects to enter Phil Brady, By Chapman, Gerry i the rabid lacrosse section of Balli- more and engage Johns Hopkins on this jaunt. Wyatt has announced the annual award of a trophy in the form of a 20mm. shell case. Each year the name of the outstanding lacrosse player will be inscribed upon this trophy. Bob \Whitey\ Markes, of Amster- dam, was the first Union player to be thus honored. Markes was one of the stars of the Garnet team last year and is expected to continue his fine playing with the additional ex- perience he has gained since he first handled a stick last spring, As a freshman, he was Union's nomi- nee for the annual North-South game which was held in Baltimore last spring. He also earned a Block 'U' as first string guard on the basketball team last winter. former Lacr-osse Ace Will Not Return Here 'Daily Drills Are Designed to Prep Runners for Wins Ketznwn Please (;oacl! In First Course Runs Coach Bill Ketz has his cross- ~ountry =''l·Uad working hard to get in ~h:1pe for tr.e cpening meet of the season at Rochestl'r on October 5th. Over 30 m£ n 1·eported to Ketz for the initial practice Munday af- ternoon and he has utilized every ·minute of time to mould· them into a winning combination. Afte1· intcm;ivc preliminary work- outs :\Iunday, Ketz ran lois cha1·ges O\'et' the four a-nd Sl'\'en·tenths mHe cou1 se TuL·sJay aftl'l noun ar.d was imprcesed with their showin)!. He ·expects to have the haniers run- ning the full distance almost every day tu familiarize tlll'm with the course and the pace they will have to maintain to win races. Hoppful Exp~>ctations Ketz has expectations of a suc- cessful season even though the schedule is one of the toughest the Dutchmen have faced in a long time. The IC4A cross-country championships in New York City on November 16th are the main ob- jp<\ti\·\ of thP hill and <ialt>r' for thP season. Ketz plans to take as many of the sq.uad as show promise to that event and hopes that the Dutchmen will make a good show- ing in that race. Word has offcially been recevied Another trip to New York City !:hat W, Brooke Tunstall, one of is in prospect for the long-winded Union's all-time lacrosse greats, will boys on October 26th when they not return to Union College. Tun- tackle the Brooklyn Poly runners. stall found that he could not take . ~~~:;~~\~~Ps~~~~~~~-pponents are the courses he desired at Union and Four Veterans subsequently transferred to Johns· Four veteran runners from fol'- Hopkins University in Baltimore, mer cross-country and track teams his native city. will form the nucleus of the team As a freshman on the Garnet Ketz will race this year. Three of Varsity lacrosse team in 1942, these men earned Block 'U's' on Tunstall led the scoring attack of Gamet hill and dale teams and the a team which lost only one game. fourth earned his letter as the out- At that time he was acclaimed as standing miter on the track squad the greatest attack ever to wear a last spring. Newt Culver, Clayt Garnet jer..;;ey. After enlisting in Long and Don Brightman are the the :Marines, he was sent to Cornell three former harriers. All have had University. While at Cornell in extensive experience in long dis- 1944, he played with the Big Red tar.ce running. This trio coupled ten and was named to the All- with Gil Hicks, miler of the 1946 American team. track team, look good in practice Tunstall was Union's nominee in and give promise of showing their the North-South contest of 1942 and heels to more than one opposing scored the opening goal in that harrier. fray. His stellar work as an attack Several promising freshmen have contributed materially to the also come to the attention of Coach 1 North's victory. He was a membe1· Ketz. Cassidy and Cohen are two Army, Notre Dame Chosen ;Sixteen Contests ~!nthoefl~:~~;~a~~~ t;;t !~~~~ng~~~ ~·~~~~;npr:~~:.K~~~/~~~~-~ss~~~ ------------~--------------------- 1 F d 1946 . was the outstanding man on the these men will play a prominent Leading Grid Contenders I eature. on. . - attack. ----o i~~~s~n Union's cross-country for- <Ed's note;: as a preview to the®>-------------- -- 1947 Cage Lme-Up Games Broadcast by UCRS Guy Mattson, who ran cross-coun- column whi_ch . we ~ope to run I For sectional champions, the arti- For the first time, Union students try as a fershman, has returned to ~eekly, . b7gmnmg w1th. o~r next cle lists: Army, East; Notre Dame, A sixteen game basketba,.ll sched- will be given the opportunity of the team and looks like a c.ontend- Iss~e, hstmg the pr~d!Chons of f Midwest; Duke, South; Alabama, ule fer Union College, rene;vmg, hearing the broadcast of both home er for one of the leading positions. varwus campus athletic sa~es ?f Southwest; Oklahoma A & M, Mis- riv~lry smpended for Eeveral :li ears , >mel away games over UCRS, In addition, three half-milers from current games, we are runnmg In . V 11 . C 1 d U R ky agamst Colgate and Dartrr outh and, through the courtesy of WGFM the track team are trying the t . ! so uri a ey' 0 ora 0 ' oc ' I d' t d't' I ' I h , d' ta h' f II d f' this issue a summary of an ar !C e M t .. USC p .f. C t· y le 1 me u Ing ra I wna nva s sue as It has been rumored that the New longer rs nee t IS a an · 1gure · · w 11 · Th oun am, ' ac! rc oas ' a '· H m'Jt R h t ' W'Jl' a d t bl d · 'th th ' d wntten .by Frll;ncrs a ace m e Ivy League; and Ohio State, Big I a I on, oc cs ei, I 1arns, n 1 Yot·k Alumni have hired a wire so o en m WI e expenence Saturday Evenmg Post.l Ten. ~ R.P.I., was 17nnounc~d recently by 1 that they, ~!so, may hear the game. men. Dan Sharpe, Hal Larkin and Army Nott·e Dame and Alabama, . \B' G , , if. Harold Wittner, d1rector of rth-1 Fred Steigert are the half-milers. in that' order will be at the top of • rg ames . · leUcs. the college football heap when the I For the \big games:• of the year The schedule: whistle ends the 1946 campaign for the Post forecaster p1ck_s: ~~pt. 28 Dec. 7, Colgate at Hamilton. national gridiron honors in Decem- -Not:e Dame over III~nms, Oct. Dec. 9, Dar~n;outh at T~o:'(. I ber, according to Francis Wallace, 5-0hio State o_ve~ USC, Oct. 12- Dec. 11, Wtlhams at W1!harnstown. 1 The Saturday Evening Post's Army. over Michigan; Oct. 19- Dec. 13, Hobart. \prophet\, who is resuming his an- Georg1a over Oklahoma A & M; Dec. 18, Hamilton. nual pre-season football forecasts Oct. 26-Penn over N:o;vy; Nov. 2-- Dec. 20, St. Lawrence. after a three-year lapse because of Alabama over Georgia; Nov. 9- Feb. 8, Bro.oklyn Poly at New Y.ork. the war. Army over Notre Darn~; Nov. 23 ·Feb. 12, Middlebury. · 200 Experts Participate --Ohio State t>ver Michigan; Nov. Fe'b. 15, RP.I. at Troy. More than 200 experts-coaches, 3Q--Army over Navy, Feb. 21, Hobart at Geneva. publicity men, commentators and AII-Americ:m Selections Feb. 22, Rochester r t Rochester. sports writers-participated in the There is a wealth of outstanding Feb. 26, Stevens. survey on which Mr. Wallace bases material on the gridiron this sea- Mar. 1, R.P.~. . MILK Vitamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE 6-2351 his predictions in an article in this son and Mr. Wallace has selectecl Mar. 5, Ha_m~lton at Clmton. week's Post. In stx previous pre- what he considers will be the All- Mar. 8, Tr1mty at: Hartford. views, Mr. Wallace has averaged American team for 1946, Mar. 15, Wagner. ~~~~~~~~~=~~~~~~ better than .500 per cent in spotting rr==============~~ \ ~------ ---- the leading trends, teams and play- 1 ers. WE HAVE SERVED Following Alabama in his na- UNION MEN SINCE 1911 tiona! ranking, Mr. Wallace places in order: Ohio State, Texas, Illinois, San Francisco, Yale, Michigan, USC, Georgia, Penn, Duke, Navy and Oklahoma A, & M. SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS MAURICE B. GRAUBART and SONS The Jay Street Jeweler 166 Jay Street LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PR~SCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS -DRUGS JAMES F. BURNS • EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL • 206 CLINTON STREET MIN HAM'S MEN'S SHOP McGregor Sportwear Manhattan Shirts Lee Hats Rochester Tailored Clothing 169 JAY ST. ~A~P~P~LE~T~o~N~.s~ll'~ 1 · ~~- ~w~E ~N~E E~o~= 167lf2 JAY STREET Y 0 U R HEAD 1 Next to Minham's I] Men's Shop IN OUR BUSINESS II· COMPLE~E SHOE Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Near FERRY REBUILDING Cor. NOTT TERRACE and I· • Zipper!i Replaced on ACME BARBER SHOP 509 UNION ST. STATE STREET ---\~:;:;::::::===::=A:=n:=v:=!fl:=in=g=!=:==:::=:=~ STYLES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY $6.50 to $12.00 X-RAY FITTING Z41i State St. for 50 Yea.rs FERRO'S RESTAURANT Spaghetti and Meat Balls Our Specialty 1115 BARRETT STREET Cleanel's and Dyel'S Ball's I nco Shoe Rebuilders 633 State St. 204 Union St. PHONE 6-3456 Call Ball and Ball Will Call

6 Organization Key Standing Group To Healthy Class Leaders Named Collegp will mean more to you both as an undergtaduate and as dl alumnus 11 your class is well urganized ,., ith act1ve officers ami with a p1 og1 am wluch makes all Pres. Davidson Announces Nin.e Appointments to Set School Policy, Curricula the rnembet·s known to each other. Faculty members of eleven stand- The class is the natural unit m all ing committees and the Faculty colleges, and it is the class or- Council at Union College were an- gantzation which keeps you in nounced today by Dr. Carter David- touch with eal·h other and with th,, son, president. College for long years after gradua- RPl'Vtng on the Faculty Council non \OUI. oldest clas>' with living which determine::; academic policy members IS the class of 1875, The [and curricular offerings are: Dr. lit·Ori11'~'\ rnpnril !:;:us fJrqUC'ntl:. I D,,, 1\.bun, Dt. Chadt!:l F. F. Garw, itom 1ts two surv1vms, both of Dean; Dr. Hal'!'tson C. Coffin, whom nt e aet 1 ve alumni. J Frank Bmley Pt·ofessot of Greek Tht• F1 •·~hm.tn Recm d gt\'f's the I and chairm,;n of the Division of ptctutl'~ and th<.' roster of your 1 Humanttles; Dr. D, Richard Weeks, <'ia~,;mat••s. The Garnet, which is I associate professor of English; published in ;-·out senior yeat', will Dt·. George H. Danton, professor tell the :-tm\ of what eal'h of vou of Getman and chairman of the ha~ t!onP n~ <'<'llPgP, as \\ill ·the dPpattment of modern languages; Senwr Qualtlic:ttlon Sheets issued Dr. Ha10ld A. Larrabee. Ichabod m conJunetwn with the Placement Spencet, pt•ofessor of Philosophy Bm<>au and used to ass1st gradu- and chairman of the Division of ales m obtaining t•mployment. ThL' Soeial Studies; Dr. Frederick L. Lias;; will numage yom Freshman Bronner, profe~sot of history; Dr. dane·,, alld lat .. , th<' l'lulll Yuu Phtllp Stanll'y, associate professor \\lll takt• pall 111 llltta-ntutal cun-luf plu!u\ophy; l>t. l>avtd S. M01se, tt•d:;; und, ,,s the )eats !J:.<Ss, the::;e 1 ptufe~sut of mathematics and (11Jll1ltt•Jl ~:qwlltllt'~ \\ill l'Il.ttt' 1 Lh~urnldH uf the Dtv1~1on of Scl- !Jit,t ... .tllt \'~\l L1t1un~ Org< I11Zatlun 1 l•llec, U1. Vlad1n1u l:{ujan!:iky, pro- Ltk•·~ •~<l•J-i>IJ•, tid,,,. \\uu!J 1 te:>:>ut ul !Jh)blC:>andchaumanof tllg•· )ull :tt the \tl) oq.;.nntng oflthe Ue!JUltlllcnt of !Jhy~Jcs; Dr. \olli t'tl1lt,...:t t.tltc 1 to gt\'t thought 1 .Augu,:,tu;:, H. Fox u~.sociate prufe~­ t,, t;h. t·ltltio:l l'f (Jlli!Jl'I offlll'l:s. 1 ~ul uf rnatlHnlatlc:::;, Hatold VV. lntt•J t''t atl•l l•.tlll<l!\lllun tn t!a~o . 1 Btbbet, ptofebout uf electtical en- tff.llJ, \\lll I'·') ~uu tltlll!L·nd~ c;mcctmg anti cha!Iman of the thl\ll~l. lJ!, tJ• ftu·Jablt!p~ .tnt! m Dt\lolun of Engmeetmg; Robert h,·Pi'.' Jilt tuu1 tt... 1 L .Stdlllt•.}. asststunt JH ofessor of Tltt• l;r.tt!u.t!t• CuUttc•tl '\ the ll:::ngm~t>Itng, D1· Cha1!es T. Male, l'ntuu Collt>L.'t' al·unni or garnzHtton Jt .. as:->is-;tant p1ofessor of Engine-er- .Jlld th• h<~'l~ lot tt•ptt''t'ntatwn lmg; H t;t!bett Hat low, Rssistant tht•Jpon Is hv t Ia~s In no1ntal + pJuft·!'t~oJ 11f l'lVIl Pngmeering: Dr tJnH·...; JIIHII to J.!:l ldu·ttwn Padt C'la~s Allan C .Srott a~~Istant professor ••IP<'t~ :1 Pl<''ldt>nt Vtt\ Pt P>'ldPnt. of bwlogy; and Dt· Bertrand M. ~Pt'tPt:uy, 1'1Pnsutt>t, and Otndl!HtP \\\:dng-Pr associH.tP ptofessor of CotHH Jl H.Ppt t~st·ntat 1 vt~ ThPV Sf' I VP ~nghsh. untt! tht' ti1st <·Ja,< t<'umon 1s hPld. :\fpmbets of nine education com- thtP'' \<'at~ altt>l gtaJuat10n. at mittPes mclude wlut'h ttlllt· n .. w \!<'<'lions are held Wtlh thP wa1 manv cla~srs ha\'<' IH'Pn thsruptt>d: studt•nts had to lea\'e t•nllrgP ht>fore rerelving their ,!egTePs ·tnd 1 t>\ Ill n later to actually JOlll ot'lPt t laHS<'S The Gtaduate Counl'il ha\ ft•lt that dmmg the t·lll£'1 gPne\' tt '\i\'onld hP. W{.~ll to eH.tl'\' all alum~1 wtth the class \\ith \hl<'IJ t!JP\ '\atlPd, tn Old<'! that iht•lt,. nHlV l1\' 'I haJ.t11Ct• Ul tht• alumnt !Jlltl\ Th1s p1 oePdun• ha~ I,Pt'll Iul111\\ t d I'L.e lnd,\ H.iUdl Atlmtssion:o Dean Garis, chait·- man, Dt Hat uld W. Blodgett, pro- fessot uf English and chail·man of the de pat tment of English; Dr. Bronner. Dr. Leonard B. Clark, pro- fe;;sor of bwlogy and chail man of tlw d .. pat tment of biology; Warren C Taylut. p10fesso1 of civil en- ginPetmg; Prof. J. Ha1old Wittner, Du t•l'tot of Athldtes; Wilford H. Ko L~. aHolHia nt to the dean; and J Ha1 nld Ripton dil rrtor of ad- !HJ::.;tiions ho\\PVPI nla\ <'hoosr \Ahatrve-t das,; With ,., l.t<'ll ht' Wt>~ht•s to be Stantltng of Students: Dean allthatetl .t1t<'t giaduatiun Thl· Gatis D1. Coffm. Dr. Lart·abee, Dr. Lia-s u! 1~;,0 ts the lllst l'lass m :\!nt se. and Professor Bibber. Jt•ttnt yp. 11 , \\lilt,, clt•.tt-tu\ tt·l>~- !itadu:tiP Stud1es Dean Garis, tum to t ht• r; 1 atlu<\tl' Cuunct! 'hRit mRn; Dr Waingel. Dt. Joseph Ft~t !JU!po\'' of ,tutlt•nt guvetn- D Doty, ptofessor of history and nwr t. 1t 1:-- nt·'- t ~~a1) to 01 gan12.e tutu tiJ.,tllH t ela:--~t'::; 1n the ~tudent ],. th TJu, \!II In dune b\ the lt•tn•s 111 wlwh tht• tntltvtduais ate t'!llOllPU ~han man of tlw department of his- tory: Dr Morse: Profesor Bibber; 1nd Dr Charles B Hmd, professor of l'hemistt y and chairman of the d<.>pat tment of chemistty. Teachet· Traming. Dr. Larrabee, It 1s PXf\'· t<'d that d1.:; artivith•s 'h·tit·man; Dr. \Veeks; Dr. Ernest wtll hP on tlw lnl'rPns£> m this :11 Ligon, professo 1 of ps)chology l'<'IHH! following <llP \'at Yout· 1nd <h,dtntan of the department of ,;uggP<t Jon~ t<'!atJI't' to l']nss or p:sychu!ugy. Dt Ftanklm c. Chill- \\ nl7'J t totrs. a lumm 1 Pill! ions, and 1 ud, ass\ciate pt•ofessot of educa- ot hPt <'ollPgt' mH t tel s wtll be grate- tiun; and Dr. Orin J. Farrell, asso- 'ull~ 1 ,,, Pl\ Pd h) the C'ounetl Sect e- ciate pr·ofessOl of mathematics. •atv at \f\'plls Housp ThP grndu- Pte-medical Ttaming Commtttee: '''\\\.\Ito ha\''' gonP befnrf' vou aim Dt. C!atk. l'hait·man; Dr. Coffin; to rnal<P ;\·out t>K!lf'ltPnce a·t L\nton Dr Egber·t K. Bacon, associate pro- ·' JllufitahlP and PllJoyah!e one fpssor of chemistry; Dr. Frederic wht< h will ht• t'llli<ht'd witlt timf' c s h e midt, aswciate professor of n ~hcmistly; and Dr. Murray Wag- 0 T \d net·. college physician. upre, I marsh Are Libmt·y. Dr. Mot·se, chairman; Scheduled on Orl\fan II?'· Dutj, !'tofe::;sol Btbber; Dr. ::J I liutdon R. ::ltlber, assoc1ate profes- FI\'<' ~unday aftunoon otgan 1e- sot of modern languages; and Prof. <'ttnl~ h~- Dt Elm• 1 .\ Tit:m:nsh HPllllei L. \\'ebb L1bralian \:11 f, HtUJo· tin ::?::?r •I >' \ uf publu: Student Affaa·,. and ReiatlOns. must<'.tl Jll ogt Hll'\ :ot th .. l'r.wn Col- Dt BPnjamm P. Whitaker, profes- IPgt• :ITt mo!lal C'l a]l'l, It \a' an HOl of economtcs. chairman; Dr. \\llll<'\'l ?'\ 10 totln) Btunnet; Dr. C. Vtctor Brown, , Tit Ttdt~·tl<h pl.t\'ll·g or. tht'ldtapl<lln; L>t·. Fox, Prof. Anthony Ca-a~·ant Flt'I<'s •t).;.ar. \\1:1 \'\njHuatlley, compttoller; and Mr. thP fn't >'Plllf'>'l<'l >Pllrs on Octobe1 Ketz. 6 nt 1 nn P Ill \\llh a \cit a! t,rl,tlt 1 Placement Fredenc A. Wyatt, ftom tl•r \\oJ k\ .,f :\ht<'< I Dti!IP · · • · ' 1 tlu ectot of a! umnt 1 elattons, chair- ·tnd hi' l<\l<'het~ ~~~ ~uptr \.\olld I man, Dt. Wt!ham W. Bennett, pro- fanJou..:: nn. nnt\t \\ Jil }..::1\'fl .1 l'rncrt t f f · · 'It 1't>tnr (', !!r~•· or. tr., p!It'• t!mg 1 1 b~~~~\ 1 ~:. \~~~~~~;~:\·6r~o~~~.~~; B~~~ nicltt On . I Ketz, F1ancis C. Ptay, director of :\'o\'<'l1Jh£'t 3 Dt Tulm•.uBh public telations; and Professor will pt P~Pn~ W<Jl.l{s of Amettcan Taylor·. <'omposet s mC'!udmg _Buck. :\~ana- 1 Tht ee Administration committees Zurl'a, Leach. <i<·tshw_m. and S~nen wer·e announced· On J?Pcembpt 1 he \\Ill b': a\Htsted Discipline· The president the m a Bach P 1 ogt am b~· Mtss HC'len Dean, and three members of the HPnshaw. gucst_ ~tgantsl. . Student Council The nnnu\;I 1 nron Cr.llrge Chtlst- Student Activities: Dean Garis ma• ;).!u\Jc I< t''llval has bPf'n Sf't fm . . ' Der•mhet 1~ \lith., mu,irnl -rt\'ll'<' lchanman; Joseph Rotundo_. asstst- hv tlte rnl!eg• <'hot! at 11 ()() a m 1 ant ptofessor of economtcs; Dr. an ., 1 gan 1 .,,. 11 ,. 1 h\ Dt Ttdmat <I;! Douglas W Campbell, associate RRsi-tPrl h~ the r},,;J, at I no p Ill., I fJl'Ofesst:r of government; Dr. Fox, and a rommnntt\ r•uol smg 'It 7 30 I Dt, Rojansky. an? Mt·. Ketz. P m 1 Publtc Ceremomes: Dr. Larrabee, Tlw srJJP~ \\'Ill he conl'\tJdNl on chailman, Dt. B!·onner; Dr. Bacon; Junuaty 12 \\'lth Patly FtPJC<'h Brl-, Dt. Hmtl; Dr. ~ux; and Ptofessor gJnn nne! nPt n1nn ~f'lPPtion~ Tayloi. 0 -0----- As we go to press, this organ Va 12 Flag Unwf:infed wi~hes to announce that the Sopho- mot'f' C'!aHs reRumed 1ts persecution V\'tth the rol!PgP undPtgomg al- of the FreshmAn class as numerous mr st constant change, with the ad- yearlings routed North College dition of nPw faculty, new bmld- Frosh from their beds In the early ings and nPw cotuses .and with tht> morning to repamt the Idol a beau- disnppNll an<'P of many of the ttful green Hands were substituted things we havP romp to rC'gnt d as fer brushes. The Frosh retaliated rnmmnnplnrP hnw ahout n rnntpuH 'hottly HftPrwatds as they beseiged rnni'Rs nf tl11ngs to tlispP!lSP \\ith thP C'nnt'mdy office for some time Fit qt f'n t hf' li't in the npini<'n nf and thrf'w combustibles upon the mnnv of thf' oturl<'nts i• thf' Nm-y stntuP >'Ptting it f!£>rcely aflame V-12.Unit flng at the front of Mem-j and destroying the l.:lophomore orial Chapel. , handiwm k. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1946 THE D E A L flee small tempormy loans. These by membel's of the college com- loans, on an in\erest-ft ee basis, are munity. to be 1 epaid immediately upon re- Under Veteran's Administmtion ceipt of the ln·st ><Ubs1stance checlt. regulations, all students in school Dut ing the past t VI 0 tet rns, an under Public Laws No. 346 must fill entering veteran has waited from In 1 espons<' to the wide-spread out a statement covering the extent two to four months or longer for acceptnnce of the provisions made of outside work for compensation his fil·st subsistonce check from the fo1· the wives of mat'l'led men, the government. This has occasioned College has decided lo continue the ~e~~~uai~~y thi:t~~~le;~ i~e~~~~·:g considerable hatdship when the vet- system inHittuted last year. This out this form will Impede the pay- eran is financtal!y unprepat·cd to system provides that \YtVes may be ment of subsistence. Blank forms meet the cost of board and worn. admitted to all athletic contests are available in Room 9 of the Ad- The college, in attempting to assist upo~ the yayment ~f the Federal ministration Buildino-. the veteran needing financial aid tax. It tmght be pomted out that \' to meet expenses, is making avail- the tenn1s courts are again avail-j Married Veterans under Public .able through the Comptrollers Of- 1 able to wives who are accompanied Law No. 346 Hhe G. I. Bill) who have not already done so, should send a certified copy of their mar- riage certificate to the Veteran's Administratton, Watervliet Arsenal, Albany 1, New York. Those men undet· P~blic Law No. 16 should send a certified copy of their mar- riage certificate and bn th certifi- cates of any children to the same • address. PATRONIZE CONCORDY ADVERTISERS HEI T PRI Vol. LXXIV. First Hilig Saturd• Puts Fa Season Final a11ang ing event of tl son have been dance to be h1 September 28 promises to be care to miss. change in tim1 now commenc less time lapse dancing will p.m. Many featm intormal dane• be found agai No admission the Gym shou is the time fo to start their for the comin1 pense, thanks ctl which is from surplus i Delpl The Delphic the Council t< have worked cessful e venin tice. The pur1 be to acquain reacquaint th1 just returned will also be a the students t1 at Skidmore. The Date E has been usee and the Comr to express the Cameron, Ski man, for her v taining dates Date Bureau the students trips to Skidn interesting no is that the a are being pial conflict with endar, Men t. The student for dates ar House Loung The girls will the introducti football gam1 tickets for th1 uted in the L• D~ The music dance will b1 Fleming and band. A fei :Mauro, who Saratoga nig pany the bm men will rec~ aries of Flem at past Union ed for many well known ir out this sect i was reorgani< after the mE from service group that h! ing sweet an last ten yean Fraternity decorate the Gym to add 1 refreshment drinks and tb identify class Some diffic ers was encc mittee. They obtain green men and dy• practicable s• ers will be wl ity). The UPI ceive red po be distribute< Chapel 1 Sunday-Dr. Tuesday-Pr< The Effec Trial. Wednesday- Atwood, F1 Schehectad Thursday- Principal < Edison Ele Friday-Dr. cital and C

1946 mar- senal, men mar- same · .. ::.; • • HERE'S TO PREXY tfltStS HE'S TRUE BLUE The Student Newspape.r of Un~ion College Vol. LXXIV. No. 2 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., IFR·ID:AY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1946 P.-ic:e 1 Oc Fi_r~t Pep Ra·Uy .. Dance M~unte~an:ksMeet Hill Elected lnterfr.aternity Head; H !I h' t ·G . w· ·.· 'k d· w.th Director To G •d:. B '1.1 ' h d ,. d 11g · · ame · ee en .· Select Officials n · uon · · a. ·· · Sc · e u e . Fo·r Nov. 8 Elections J. Alberts New P-resident; UCRS Back On· A z\r Robbins Outlines Society The t>lection of pe1·manent i·epJ·est>ntatives to tht\ student p,·ograms for Coming Y:ecrr. Sta lion Exnands,• Saturday 11 s Card Puts Fall Social Season in Motion Council is to :be ht>ld next Mon- '.1:' F\ 1 f day, SPpt~mht\r 30 , 19 <W at 12 :00 The filst organizational meeting ~ Ina arrangements or· the epen· uf the ::\f.ountPhank,;, Ull·icm drama· arz\ety of Snows in·g event of the current so · 1 noon. ThP 8Pniors wi'IJ moet · · cia sea- ~ tic society, was held at the theatre son have been completed .. The sport and e!Pct their rt>pr!\SPntativPS · V\ h d t b h ld s d in thl' front of Memorial Ill ·v a>~ btl! n Hall thiti .past JI.Iun· The L\nion College Radio Station ' ance · 0 · e e · atur · ·ay evening, day evening. returned to the air this week alter 1 September 28, at Alumni Gym OhapPI, the Juniors in the rear promises to be an affa·ir no one will of MPmorial Chapel, and the Speaking to a large turnout nf being officially closed tor the sum- 1 care to miss. There has been a I Sophomores in Old Chapel. new members, 1\ir. Buren Robbins, n.er. Technical men on the staff I change in time; and the dance winj '!'he Freshmpn will meet on faculty advitior, presented a :short have stated that reception of pro-j now commence at 8 p, m., giving. the floor of the gymnasium, outline of the societies aims. grams broadcdst is much improved Jess time lapse after the game, and and they will elect a tempor~ At this time, he indicated, plans over that of former years. Accord- dancing will continue until 11:30 ary president of their class, have been form<>d to produce three ing to James Ogletiby, Station man- p. m. who will select four other tem- p'lays per year, as well as some ager, more imp! ovement is in the pora1·y represt>ntatives to the t t · oning. Many features of the successful ex ra !\n ertatnment programs. The policy of refusing sponsor- informal clances held last term will Student Council. Members will be trained not only ship has been reversed because be found again-bigger and better. Any nwmber of the three up- in acting, but in production and tlnancial aid will be needed for the No admission will be charged and per classes can have his name lighting techniques. stage design, erection of new sound-pr<;of studios the Gym should be crowded. Now placed upon the ballot by filing and othe-r phases of theatt·e work. rn Silliman Hall. Commercial an- is the time for all of Union's sons. a. nominating petition healing As a supplement to these, various· nouncements w1U be undertaken as to start their social maneuvering the siguatm·es of 15 classmates. discussion periods will be conduct- soon a.s anangen~ents can be made for the coming year, and at no ex- Petitions may be turned in to ed in the course of the year. witn suitable sponsors. pense, thanks to the Student Coun- the :Student Activities Office in Mr. Robbins also emphasized Public Address equipment for cil which is financing this dance WashbUI·n Hall fJ•om 1:30 to that new talent would be welcom- Saturday's dance in Alumni Gym-· from surplus funds. 5;00 P· 111• da.ily except Satur- ed if they displayed an active in- nasium will be set up and operated Delphic's Sponsor day. terest in the group's work. by members of the studio staff. A The Delphics, who were asked by In the ensuing discussion among snort \Musical Knowledge Quiz'' the Council to sponsor this dance, Rally .Set .DOf JO,• the fifty-odd members, there evolv- will be conducted by member& ot have worked hard to plan a sue- ~\ ~ ed a tentative executive setup as the Program committee during in- cessful evening on such short no- well as a skeleton plan for ·forth- termission. It is hoped to have t . Th Mel Be • ~ ~ [k comr·ng acti\vi'ti\es. members of all classes and their ICe, e purpose Of the dance Will zn 0 a be to acquaint the Freshman and · · . Officers temporarily appoi·nted dates participating in the quiz. · th t h h B P\l d 25 F t H' h were Acti·ng Presr·dent Clal·k Pnzes will consist of cigarettes reacquamt e ve erans w o ave oxes 1 e ee 19 r · h d th h h ·d t just returned to the College. There \Tiger'' Alberts, plus Ed Dahlsted, urms e roug t e aJ 0 \ll I b To Be Burned•, Paa\amas to Bo\ McNulty, James Lemke, R. F. Campu& Representatives. WI a so e ample opportunity for u Wh'l h th t d t t bt . f . d 8 W b F h Cl Baldwin, and Bob Sher·man, mem- 1 e t e present UCRS sched- at e;k~~~r:. o o am a ew fmn s e orn V res man ass bers of the Acting Executive Com- ~~~ti~~: f~~o~!~r~~!:.~~ct~o~: as:~= The Date Bureau for the dance The traditional pre-season rally mittee. These men, for the present, ti.ons are being received by the has been used by over 60 students and bonfire is scheduled for ten will handle the general policies ·Of Program committee. Students hav- and the Committee at Union wish o'clock tonight at the Council the Mountebanks and will, them- ing new or novel ideas should con- to express their thanks to Barbara Field. The band and Jim Baar selves, appoint the various neces- tact Vincent de Baun, Program Cameron, Skidmore Social Chair- with his cheerleaders will be on sary committees. Manager, in the studio office at the man, for her work with them in 0 ,b- hand to lead in the noisemaking. The main problems appreached South end of Washburn Hall. taining dates for Union men. The For most of us the rally will by the new committee concerned The schedule of programs at Date Bureau hopes, however, that provide us with our first view of the type of plays to be produced present includes musical requests, the students will make frequent. this season's band in action. The and the date of the first produc- ·news, sportscasts, and activities'. It trips to Skidmore on their own. An musical r.epresentatives of the Old tion. Although no definite decision is hoped that short plays and interesting note in this connection Maroon are said to be in fine could be made at this early date, it dramatizations may be given in the is that the activities at Skidmore shape this year; tonight they'll is definite that the plays will be near futme. Announcements of are being planned so they will not demonstrate just what kind of a selected by their appeal to the stu- changing schedules will be made conflict with the Union Social Cal- show they can put on. dent body, as well as for merit. through THE CONCO'RDIEN.SIS endar, Men take heed! We'll also be looking for the The date of the initial effort prob- and the bulletin boards. The students who have signed up straight inside dope from Mel Hein ably wiil be released within ten UCRS is set up on a frequency for dates are to meet at Hale on what sort of action we can ex- days. of 640 kilocycles. The power out- House Lounge by 1 : 30 Saturday. pect from th.e grid team this fall. The next meeting of the society put of the station is sufficient to The girls will be there in time for Since this will be the first post-war is scheduled for this Monday, 7:30 cover thoroughly all parts of the the introductions and to make the team to emerge from Union's P. M., at the .Mount.ebanks' Thea- campus. It is staffed by students football game on time. Football ranks, it should be interesting to tre. All present members and those versed in radio operation and tech- tickets for the girls will be distrib- find out just how it is shaping up. interested are urged to watch the nical work. Because of the ex- uted in the Lounge at this time. He1·e's the program as it now bulletin boar·d in the Green Room perienced help, a successful year is stands: for further details. expected for the station. Greek Czar --- 4 N·ames Grant. ALBERT K. HILL ·Hoehuli to ·Posts; iTiekets Out Soon 1 • The Interfralerrlity Council, after . rts Or:ot meeting of tl:e year at the 1 Student Activi tie, Offrce, unncunced ' 1 he election of Albert K. Hill, Pretii- 1 dPnt, Henry W. Hcchuli, Vicc-pre::;i- 1 dent, and J0hn L. Gr·ant. Secretary- / trL·a~urer for . thP con:ing terms. 1 Hrll, a_ nall\'e uf Scotia, is at 1 pt·esent In h1s fifth ter;n in the , Socml Studies Divitiiun. A fo1mer .,member of the cl ss of 1946, he returned to the carr.pus a veteran of five campaigns with the 9th Infantry Divi~ion which saw action in_ B'rance, Germany, and Belgium. H1ll wa:; awat ded a Pur;Jle Heart for wounds received · in the Ren:agen Bridge action. P1 esident of ~lpha Delta Phi, Hill was very active m extra-cunicular affairs before his entry into the armed forces. In addition to holding positions on the staffs of both the Garnet and the Concordiensis, he was als.o on the Business Staff of the Mountebanks. T • k D Hochuli, who saw action as a lC ets I' or Dunre navigator with the AAF in the 1:' Pacific, is a resident of Bloomfield, fY tPub[\ h d N.J .. He has been active in campus \./Oncer lS e affarrs; has participated in both • Freshn::an football and basketball Overflow Crowds Expected is a pnvious member of the Inter: fraternity Council and last year's As Co need Series Starts Prom Comrr ittee~. In his fifth W \th W II K 0 • t term, Hochuli is a member of Beta 1 e - i'ilown rgon1s Theta Pi. Distribution of tickets for the 1946-4 I lecture and concert series at Union College which opens October 5 with a 1·ecital by the world fam- ous organist, Marcel Dupre, will be- gin next week, it was announced here today. Because of the expected over- whelming demand and limited ca- pacity of the college Memcrial Chapel. admission privileges will bP given first to students, faculty, alumni, and to members of Free- dom Forum since this organization has opened its winter series to Union College students. Members of the general public may obtain tick- ets during the 48 hours prior to each event if any remain after dis- tribution to the first named groups. Tickets for You Grant. who was re-elected to the office of Secretary-treasurer, is from Berkeley, Calif. He was cited by the Council f.or his excellent wor!' in this position last year. A Junwr, he is a member of Chi Psi. He m w action in Philippines with the Army Medical Corp. Sma.U Bands Or? The eternal question of large ban?s ven,·us srr:all pres en ted itself aagm at the meeting. The Gridiron Ball, ~s this year's Interfraternity C'?unc1! dance will again be !mown, Will not have a name band. While such a b9nd may provide a certain amour.t of prestige, the increased cost of this type of music causes an unwarranted increase in the price of admiS'sion. Consequently, a go.od n::edium-priced band will provid: the music. In this way the Council feels that ticket price may Dance Plans The rally will get under way at The music for this first sport ten o'clock, with songs and cheer~ dance will be provided by Frank led by the cht>ering squad. These· Fleming and his 15 piece dance will be followed by the chat with band. A female vocalist, Marie Mel; finally the- bonfire, with mor~ Mauro, who sang all season at a singing and cheers. As there'll be Saratoga night spot, will accom- vastly more potential lung-power pany the band. The older Union present than ever before in Union's men will recall the pleasant mem- long history, this rally ought to l \f f L • H M F• Alumni of the college may obtain be kept at a minimum, and that a . I e 0 OUIS enry ' organ ·Irs' complimentary tickets at the Grad- larger number· of students will be ~ uate Council office at \Veils House. able to attend. ories of Fleming's delightful music really wake up the town. at past Union dances. He has play- ___ o---- ed for many Alumni Balls and is well known in the colleges through- out this section. His present band w.as reorganized about a year ago after the members were released from service but it is the same group that has been together play- ing sweet and hot music, for the last ten years. Fraternity flags will be used to decorate the interior of Alumni Gym to add color. There will be a refreshment booth selling soft drinks and the system of flowers to identify classes will be used. Some difficulty in providing flow- ers was .encountered by the Com- mittee. They found it impossible to obtain green flowers for the Fresh- men and dyeing flowers was not practicable so the Freshmen flow- ers will be white (no doubt for pur- ity). The upperclassmen will all re- ceive red pom-poms. Flowers will be distributed free at the dance. ----0 Chapel Week Sunday-Dr. Carter Davidson. Tuesday-Prof. Harold Larrabee- The Effect of the Nuremberg Trial. ; Wednesday-Rev. Bertram de Heus Atwood, Fir~t Reformed Church, Schehectad:y: .. Thursday - obert Murray, '33. Principal of Pleasant Valley and Edison Elementary Schools. Friday-Dr. Tidmarsh-Organ re- cital and Glee Club. Placement Bulletins Out for Fourth Time The Graduate Council Placement Bureau has just issued the fourth in a serie-s of periodical Placement Bulletins. Copies are being for- warded to all personnel who have registered with the Bureau but ad- ditional copies will be posted on the campus for the inspe-ction of the student body. The Bulletin mainly concerns Veterans, Alumni and Seniors but Undergraduates should be ac- quainted with its contents because it will afford them opportunities for employment in the future. A publication entitled \Preparation for Seeking Employment\ by How- ard Lee Davis, which may be ob- tained at the Bookstore for twenty- five cents, is recommended by Frederick A. Wyatt '32, the Direc- tor of Placement, to those who are interested. The opportunity to re- view Placement correspondence and study various pamphlets is available to those who visit the Office, which is located at Wells House, in person. ----0,---- Veterans' Wives Meet There wi!I b€ a weiner roast Saturday afternoon after the football game for all Veterans and their wives. The place has been set as Jacltson's Gardens. I N T f II Students will obtain tickets at the Chapel Again n ew ype 0 Co ege Pamphlets· Student Activities office. Members It was brought to the attention of Freedom Forum for 1946-47 may of the Council that there is consid- Union College has originated a~--- secure tickets through Mr. Philip crable feeling on the campuS' on the new type of college publication in 1 . Alger, chairman. subject of the present system of the form of a series of historical Each pamphlet rs. ·to be kept . The president's _office will handle I chapel and assembly attendance. pamphlets called \Uhi'on ·Wcl'thie·s,\ pnef,. rea.dable, and VItally co_ncern- dJstnbutron of tickets to faculty As the policy now stands, a student dealing with the lives and accom- ed With :he co~temporar~ rmpor- members, who must apply in per- must attend at least four times -a plishments of alumni and other per- tance of Its subJect .. Lew~s Henry son. week in order to achieve the sons who have been intimately con- .Morgan, for _example, 10 • spite 0 ~ the Forty-eight hours before each requhdle number· of fifty. This nected with the college during its I fact that. his own pohti~ai ;'Iews event in the series, tickets other- situation practic··IIy forces men to first 150 years. were ~ecJdedly co_nservatrve, 18 to- wise uncalled for will be collected attend either the evening prograrr:s The first in the series, honoring Ida~ With.out .questiOn. the Amencan lti the prMident's office and may be or Sunday services. Consequently, Lewis Henry Morgan. \the father social SCientis: wh? Is b~st lmovyn obtained by members of the gen- students who worship at their own of American ethnology,\ was pub- and most admired m S_oyiet Russi~, era! public in person or by sending churches will be compelled to at- Iished this week President Garter where a complete editiOn of hrs a self-addressed. stamped envelope. tend two services in one day. The Davidson annou~ced today. works is in preparation. Telephone 4-7402. Council is now drawing up a re02olu~ College Leads One Issue Per Year Requests must be made separate- tion appraising the Student Council It has long been known that ly for each individual concert or of campus opinion in .order that Union College not only leads all the It is hoped to publish one issue lecture. No- tickets will be provided the existing situation may be small' colleges of the nation in the of \Union Worthies\ each year in for the entire set•ies. ,remedied. number of its graduates (117) who connection with a symposium or Fratemity Rules are included in the \Dictionary of anniversary celebration, and to ro- A Baker Gift The Council has appointed a com- American Biography,\ but also tate the subjects chosen among the mittee ~I;ich will at~empt to clarify ranks ninth in the list of all thP divisions of humanities, social stud- A modest numbel' of tickets will the \;XIstmg confusron concerning American colleges and universities ies, sciences, and engineering .. Fu- be distributed to area music lenders the r1ghts of the fraternity houS'eS of whatever size in the number of ture issues will probably include by Dr. Elmer Tidmarsh, Union Col· in giving parties and entertaining its eminent graduates. There has such Union \greats\ as John How- lege music director. women. Coordinator of Student been, hitherto, no collection consti~ ard Payne, Dr. Eliphalet Nott, The concert series is a gift to the Activities Wilfred Ketz stated the tuting a \Hall of Fame\ of distin- Chester A. Arthur, William H. Sew- college .by Walter C. Baker, chair- regulation8 as they now stand. guished Union men. ard, George Westinghouse, and ma.n of the college board of trustees 1. At lunch and dinner the pres- The first number of the new Henry James the Elder, to mention and vice-president of the Guar'anty ence of the house members series is devoted to Union's fore- only a few. Trust Company of New Yorlt, who may be considered adequate most social scientist, \the father of The typography has been design- stipulated that the musical series is chqperonage. In these cases Amel'ican ethnology,\ Lewis Henry ed and executed under the supervi- provided first of all for students women should be out of the Morgan, Class of 1840, of Aurora sion of Mr. Sidney R. Jacobs, pro- and faculty. The lecture series is house by 9 n.m. and Rochester, N. Y. It consists of duction manager for Alfred A. supported by the Ichabod Spencer 2. All parties. at fraternity houses the three short addresses on Mor- Knopf, New York publisher. college lecture fund. must have the permission of gan delivered by scholars from Contri-butors to the pamphlet on o the dean. Michigap, Rochester, a.nd Columbia Morgan are Dr. Leslie A. White, UCRS S h 3. All parties at which women at the symposium held in his honor chairman of the department of an- C: edule Same are present must have chaper- in the Memorial Chapel last No~ thropology at the University of UCRS's program f'or the week of ones> who have been appr.oved vember, together with a reproduc- Michigan; Dr. Arthur C. Parker, di- September· 30 to October 4 will re- by the dean. . lion of t~e Morgan pot trai.t which [rector of the Rochester Museum of main the same as !Gst week. Dance i ~s _there ar~ c~ntrad1ctory ~ules was unve1led on that occasiOn, and Arts and Sciences; a.nd Dr. Bern-I music will be broadcast from the I hna o~ce at thr~ tlme, a commrttee a brief bibliography of works by [hard J. Stern, lecturer in sociology I e~d of the game tomonow until II cle~r ::~ 0 ~ Pf~ 1 ~nst~~ !~b:i~~o~~h ae· and about its subject. at Columbia University. 8.0[) P.M. dean's approval.

2 Olnurnr y 0 !llcmber Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor or the Collegiate Digest. National Advet·- tising Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service. Inc., College Publishers Hepresentative. 420 Matli- \on Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished everr Friday or tho sehool year. \i:l CattM Per sa Parole AHai\ ::I!.A:SAGING HOAHll Editorial Office. \Vashburn Hall, t:nion L'ollege. PuiJ- Itccttion Uffice, 'l'he Ga- zette Press, 3:H St&te St. Entered ill the S~llenee­ tadr l'o8t Office as Sec· one! Class .Mail Matter, sub~crit)tion lOe a copy; $3 n.•:rr; delJYered auywhe,·t=> in the l:niteLI State\. Jn~~Jlh Y. lltll'lllOll. .•................ Ellihll'•ill•l:hit•i \lhl'l'l h. Hill. ........................ S]JUrts Editor fE .Jtunr' .\, Bnar... .:uanaghlg Editor .Ju..,t·t~h I. B(lrll,h•in.... .. .Bu .. int•'' :\!nnm.n·r llnrt'J 1', lln\\lt<·'·..... . .... l'it·t•nlntiun :unung·er Lan~t· JtH·l·t ... uf thi.., j-.-.,ut· of THJ. ( O't('t)JUUJ·:'J-...1\\ '\''~\~' ·nriUt~ll illlti ·mtult•-ut• h) .,tuclt•ut ... ·h'Jiug· out l'ur till' \ arlt,.u.., Pll·lllh·a.tiull lwn.rch, g r SCHOOL SPIRIT Tonight at n: i:-l, till' l'ir::;t uppo1 t unity for thP studPnt hoct~· to sho\\' its loyalt~· to thl' collt.>ge football team and to the college as <l whole will OCL'lll'. During t hL· p<lst t \\'lJ hl't'ks, the cheer-leading squad has labored to per- fpct itself in order that it ma~· he the ~;;mrk that seb the flame of sehool spirit in Yiew. For over a month, :\lel l!ein and the foofmH squad have worked dail.1 tu furnt a ~l'cUll oi' \\'hich the eollege may be proud. ~ow, it is your tu1n tu make thL' team• proud of you. The pep-rally t<1 be held ht'l'l' tonight \\·ill afford yuu an t•xel'llei!t uppor- tunity to let off a bit of the pent-up ~~team whieh nlll:'t ha\'e accu.t.ula~ul in t::l P<tst two \\'eek::;. Ul't out and gin•. In thL' past. the spiriL of tilL' eo!legp has been at best spott~·. Thc>rt> have l:een periods or elation and pel iod~ <•f dL':-'J:i>JHlc!L'::. There have been times during which the sciwol has given wholehearted suppm t to a defeated athletic team as iH 19W \\hen a largpnumuei' of students were waiting- at the 1 ailroad station in the early moming hours to greet a football team which had succumbed to Rochester C'niversity by an overwhelming score. There hm·e been other times when athletic events were barely attended and hardly cheered. The basketball seasons have been noteworthy in this respect when the g~·mnasium is rarely crowded. This year, l'nion enters upon a new phase of its existence. With the influx of new students, there is no reason for empty seats at any college function. There m·e enough of us to make the windo\\'s of the fraternity lwu::;es shake from the c~ound of cheering. ThNe a1·e enough of us to Jll'Psent each and eYery l'nion squad 1rith a satisfying indica- tioll of appreciation. The !lean's Office has just announced that there will be a half-holida,1· on Saturday, ~ovember 16 in order that a large delegation of L'nion men may make the trip to Clinton for the anrntal game with Hamilton. \\arious campus organizations iH the next fe\\' weeks will make a concertect effort to gain yom suppDrt. They will ask ,1·ou to accompany the team wheN it invarlt>s tht> Hamilton campus. In past years, L' nion has sent large numbers of men to Clinton and on altemate .1 L'ar;:;, the -Clin tonian;:; ha \'1.' 1 ec iprocated. This ,\·ear. l'nion shPuld set a new record 'in tht• intense riY<tlry. Let's ha\'e en'l'Y one at the g·ame. In thL' m<ttter of the colleg·e ;:;ong·s. therC' is much to criticize. In the ~Iemorial Chapel at daily assembly, it is customary to sing a song-usually a college song. We observed during the past t\vo weeks that only a small minority of those present join in the sing-- ing. Pride in one's college is most easily manifested by participation in the sing-ing and cheering. Recently, however, it would appem· that the new crop of Dutchmen are ;mything but proud of their college. Let's all get in the sing. Tonight, at the rally, YOl: will be called upon to exercise your lungs. There will be a speech or two. There will be the usual bonfire and the usual song-s. Let's start a new season off with a new high in spirit. Everyl.Jod;v out ! ! Sila:; Vericose l0okerJ. down the lonely desolate street and was :sad. The tall buildings of the \U\ ra·ised · themsel\'es above his head in aloof de1 ision. Life was not being kind. The wind silently whisked leaves along the walk a·nd ·silas slumped into a park bench bearing a \wet paint'' sign. A chestnut dr-cJpped fl·om an overhanging branch and struck his head. Silas sighed. Life was not being ldnd. \If only some- thmg would come up,\ he whimper- ed. \If only~,\ he lowered his head in time to be strucl' by a small child's glider. He shook his etunned head slowlv, and for the lit·st time he noticed. the open news- paper lying on the walk in front of him. And then, there, there in big print he saw it~- AKI:i: YOU THE UNDERDOG? ATTENTION! THIS IS FOR YOU! ! ! ! ! No longer need you suffer at others' hands! No longer need you be the stooge for your con- temputarre:;! Do little chrldren kick you? Do dogs go out of their way to mise their legs where you are standing? Let ME change all that. Let ME make you a knight in shining armor: a bold daredevil; a dashing hero; a seducer of sultry women! Let Me make YOU a WHEEL! This is YOUR BIG OPPORTUNITY! ! Siegfried Forgeforward Inc. Silas needed no more. Wrenching himself free from the rapidly dry- ing paint he plunged into the bleak afternoon with resolution in his heart. * * * The offices of Siegfried Forge· forward were no ordinary offices, and it was no ordinary secretary that greeted Silas as he timidly entered through one of the huge oval doors> that led to the inner chambers of the dynamic genius. MAIL CALL \My name's Michelle Pelvic. Can I help you?\ she queried with a slight French accent and held out her hand. Silas shielded his eyes One of the most prevalent g-ripes heard about campus in the past week is tlwt re- lating to the ne\\·]y installed post-office. Designed to alleviate the campus mail ~ystem and to offer a solution to the complaints of the students who receive mail at the \\Tong; places, the new institution has, so far, failed utterly. There have been few times \\'ithin the memories of those of us now in the un- dergraduate ranks that the Administration has erred so greviously. To l.Jegin with, the point of pickup is de- cidedly incapable of handling the numbers of claimants who clamor there during the hours during which the post-office is open. It has al!·eady l.Jecome a common sight to find a long line of men waiting- patiently in the corridor of \Vash bum HalL Secondly, the hours during v·:hich the office functions, besides being inadequate, are definitely ill-thought out. There is, we understand, a College rule that students will attend a certain number of chapel pmgrams -FRO~I 12 NOON TO 12 :30-and that there will be no excuses because of work. The office hours set are announced as 11 :30 to 1 :30. Of this time, much is taken up l.Jy from the photo-flash bulbs that were going off intermittently and the coinciding- Chapel period. J.\Iore is taken shook the proffered hand. It was ] th ] h · d 1 · ] t d f now for the first time that he JY e unc per10 W l!C 1 ex en s rom noticed that Michelle had been 11 :!iO to 1 :00-more coinciding time. In iumping up and down on her toes brief, there could hai'dly be a more in- ever since she had stood up. \My n~me is Silas Vericose from opportune time foe the distribution of the \U\. I'd like lo see Mr. Forge- student mail. forward, but I suppose he is ter- ribly busy,\ Silas finally managed THE CO~CORDIENSIS, reflecting the to squeeze out. views of the students who have commented \Not at all,\ replied Michelle sidling up and running her hand on this problem, l.Jelieves that there should through Silas' hair causing a minia- be some radical changes. First, and fore- ture snowfall of dandruff to float to the rug. \Dr. Forgeforward most, is the THI~G necessary? Vv·e feel always wants to see college men tl t tl ld t f d I . t th · from his old Alma Mater. Go right 1a 1e 0 sys em 0 e IVery O e Ill- in.\ Michelle pogo-sticked to the dividual dormitories was easily efficient inner office door and opened it. As enough, and that the1·e was insufficient rea- Silas timidly entered Michelle whis- pered, \He'll do anything for me son for discarding it. Next, why must the you !mow. I'm the only woman he hours be so restricted that the ~IINDIU:\I ever loved.\ * * * of the student body can benefit by them? Either the postaoffice should be kept open for much longer periods than is now the case, OJ' it should be discontinued entirely. It mig-ht l.Je possible to hire, coerce, or wheedle a student from the various dormi- tories to pick up the mail for his section but that solution is, at best, faulty. Perhaps the whole affair comes under the heading of-SPECIAL DELIVERY. The room into which Silas came was plunged in total darlmess ex- cept for one gleaming spotlight which shone forth from the ceiling on Wh'lt was evidently Siegfried Forgefm·ward. The great man was seated behind a desk which was situate>d on a slowly revolving plat- form. Finally he looked at the form of Silas now cowering in a far corner and beams of light ap- peared to shoot from his eyes. ONE WAY. PLEASE! \Good afternoon,\ boomed Forge- forward. \No need to be frightened. What can I do for you? Here, here. none of that. Get .off your knees and hop up here on the plat- form so we can talk things over.\ Silas jumped up and Forgeforward seized his hand. pumping it as if he expected water to shoot fr.om the man's mouth. In spite of the clearly posted signs, there are still all too-numerous violations of the new \One-Wa~·\ street policy on the l'nion Campus. It is still a common sight to see two cars approaching- each other on the road which fronts the Fmtemity Row from :\Iem- orial Chapel to the G~:nmasium. One of the drivers must be at fault. Last year, serious accidents were barely escaped several occasions. This year, the Administration has set forth the policy which now has been placed in operation. The circle about the tennis courts and upper-class walk has been designated for one-way traf- fic. The designation, assumedly, canies little ·weight. It is true that many of the violations are those of visitors who are not familiar with the new regulations. Regaeding the new system of parking, there have been few miscreants. The streets are kept relatively free for passage except along the fence near the Gym. Here, the viola- tions must be attributed to students-many having been observed parking and leaving their vehicles. If the traffic system, as it now stands, is to operate efficiently, there must be more co-operation on the part of all drivers. Ob- serve the one-way signs and the parking- re- strictions and we may feel certain that others will f0llow the example. In this man- ner, and in this manner alone, can the danger which was so obvious last year be entirely eradicated. \I want to be a Wheel,\ whimper- ed the trembling form. \I go to the \U\ rnd I want to be a college Wheel. I want to push buttons.\ Forgeforward leaned back in his chair. placed a cigarette in his mouth, touched his finger to it, and P:Uffed slowly. He had blown three rmgs complete with hub and spokes b~fore he began to talk. \Let me give you the basic course then.\ He leaner! forward and his whole body seemed to glow. \To begin with you must realize exqctlv what a Wheel is. You must be able to distinguish the leg'itirrate from the phony, the flame from the smol1e. \Alwa\'s beware of fur coat wear- ers. ~heels never wear coats .of any ktnd as they keep themselves warm by running around. Also be wary of pennant carriers. True FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1946 Wheels rarely carry pennants as de&k w.hile ycm talk, smoke and cut all money generally goes into cigar- yeur fingernails simultaneously; or ettes and canthradidine. be typing and shuffling through \Another thing, remember the· large piles of paper. basic difference between the BMOC \D. Always be doing something and the Wheel. Here there is in pubHc. If nothing better, pace usl!lally much confusion in the around and snap your fingers. Ap- minds of many. A BMOC has ar-· pear never to sleep; and ibe in t•ived and possesses a greatness, rooms, bars, and offices at all that is hard to tarnish. He need hot~rs. If possi·ble secure a person nGt work On the other hand the somewhat similar to yourself in Wheel remains active at all times stature and look·s in order that you 0r his sta·r wH! fade. Next week may appear at many times to be in he eHher rotates i·n widet· or two places at once. smaller circles, never the same. \E. Never study in rooms, li- Natmally son:e Wheels become brary, ,or any other place whe.re yol!l BMOC's, but most are like badly might be seen. Best place is pay pcm red: beer; all head.\ Siegfried toilet in theatres. You must seen1 took a bre:1th and picked up a to get good marks without study. pamphlet. 'This gives one apparent. sage qual- \Now here he conti!lued are the itieR. basic rules for Wheeldom.\ He \F. Always dl'ink immense quan- opened the booklet and began to tities of liquor when in public and read. do it often. If you have a weak A. To be a Wheel, one must always stomach it is suggested' that you walk as if <me were carying an' carry a small vessel in your jacket eleventh hour reprieve from the pocket and become adept at pour- gGvernor. Remember that all ing your drinks into that unnoticed. papers are to be considered as This is a good stunt anyway as messages t0 Garcia. even i.f y0u are a heavy drinker B. Use the telephone as much as you can impress people by rernain- possi,ble. Even calls to discover, ing sober long after other heavy which ba·rs have beer should be drinkers are burrowing under executed with authority. Never use tables insisting that they are par- the word \please\ and when an cupines. operator says \than!• you\ do not \G. Always go out with big-·bus- say \you're welcome\; say \don't omed, gorgeous girls whom no :one ment-ion it.\ kn·ows so that. rumors of seduction \C. Ra1·ely use chairs to sit on can be spread without ffear of and when done either have feet on (Continued on Page 4) IN THE 1933 O'.R:f.GON- OR.EGON STATE. 6AME, STATE :BLOCI{EP A POINT- A'FTIR.- 'TOUCHDOWN KJ.CK )3Y HOISTING 1'HEIR'6'6\ CENTER. INTO illE AIR SPIIU)/N~ SET$ TilE PACE~ ltV $P()Rf$ COP&.l9tCM.Sl'/II.DING4B~OS.INC, I!EG.VS.PAT,orn Cleanel's and Dyers WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY RepClliring and E~graving Pens Cllnd the Finest Gifts Corner State and Center Sts. Ball's Shoe MILK ·I nco Rebuilders Vitamin D Homogenized . 633 State St. 204 Union St. Amsterdam Dairy PHONE 6-3456 Sehenec:tady, N. Y. PHO.NE 6·2351 Call Balf and Ball Will Call ·------------------· II FRIDAY, S&:l Ba; Roches1 Ca·ncel11 Paces G Coach BiU the canceNn.ti< countt>y meet The dual meet \ uled for Octo] An attempt i this open datE be fil'led the open their sea Newt Culvet of being the s the hHl and df Brightman an isfied Bill Kel The big prob: will be to fin start-ing ·berth ·PEF , TC I { Hl P.M •• SER.V•ING FO See Your ( Campus fc to F UN CL TJ Pi'!lOI 1'14 STAT! STYLES and FACULTY $6.50 to $12.00 ~ PAT X-R 245 Stat - JAME EV El 20b c l! FR CLI and 129 \Ref f c I

946 cut or pace Ap- in all f in you be in li- you pay and you pour- iced. y as por- 'one ction r of . -~::;~~ , '-:: 3 FRIDAY, SePTEMBER 27, 1946 Bartlett Captains Dutchmen Against Larries 0--------------------------------------------------------~~---------------------------- Rochester Run Is Ca·ncelledi Culver Paces Garnet Runs Coach BiU Ketz has announe<'d the canceNn.tion 0f th<· first rross- countt•y meeting with Rochester. The dual meet was odginally sched- \ uled for Octobet• 5th at R0chester. An attempt is being mad'e to fill this open date. If the date cannot be fil'led the Garnet harriers wHl open their season a week late. Newt Culver .gives every evidence of being the standout performer on the hHl and dale squad. Culver, Don Brightman and Gil Hicks. have sat- isfied Bill Ketz with their running. The big problem confronting Ketz will be tfl find two more men for starting ·berths on the squad. ,pEP RAU .. Y TONI:GHT l 0 IP. M •• Council Field SERV'ING UNJON'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on .the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS 1'14 STATE Near FERRY STYLES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY $6.50 to $12.00 X-RAY FITTING 245 State St. for 50 Years JAMES F. BURNS • Coach Mel Hein has chosen Bob Bartlett, left halfback, to lead the Union g-ridders when they face St. Lawrence tomor- row. Bartlett stands 6 ft. 1 in. tall, weighs 175, and hails from VVatertown, ~ew York. He is back at Union after serv- ing three years with the Signa:! Corps in the Pacific. Bob played on the 1941 squad at Union and also on the 1942 team, c.~long with Hal Enstice and LeRoy Siegel. Met He in has named the probab'le\' -------- ------·~----- starting lineup as Kenny Whalen, quarterback; LeRoy .Siegel, right halfback; Ba·rtleH, left ho.lfback: Hal Enstice, fullback; Roy West- lund, left end; Tom Crone or Bill Howard, left tac Ide; Pete Spezzano m· John Weiss, .Jeft guard; Brud Shae·ffer, center; John DeBello, right guard; Bob Keane, right tack·le; and J·ohn Newton, right end. It is our belief that Tom Crone and Pete Spezzano will get the starting nod despite the fact that J•ohnny Weiss has lool~ed so well in recent driHs. Weak in Res!'rves Although the Dutchmen are not exceptionally deep in reserves, Hein has some very capable men for re'lief roles. Red Stegemann and Tony Coppola, ends; Bud Mills. tackle; Gus Funk, Art Langlois, \nd Josh Titus, gumd,;; Bill Vos- senburg and Chuck Duggan. cen- ters; Dave Stra·uss, Carl Arn:stl'Ong, Pete King, and Chuck Snow, backs, may see action. aver·age 180. Replacements range from 192 pounds to 245 pounds. <The bigger they come, the harder they fall!) The starting St. Law- ·rence Jin:e will have about five pounds per man over the Garnet forward wall, but the backfield will be several pounds lighter. l Thank the Lord for every one of Kenny Whalen's 210 pounds.) All-East~rn Back Watch this boy Hefti, who plays right halfback for the visiting ag- gregation. He has played for the Saints i11 1940 and 1941. As a sophomore in 1940, this 198 pound back was chosen on Liberty Maga- zine's All East team and on Dart- mouth's All~Opponent tea:m. He. can do just about everything with a football but rr:ake it talk. Osc31' Cochi, quattPrback, is thP only other letterman in the Lanies' backfield. He should be a valuable asset to the team if they work frflm a \T\ formation, as it is sus- pected they will. Gunning for Garnet Lacrosse Team ,Has 80 Men In ;Initial Practices ! Southern Trip In Spring Is Planned On Schedule Coach Fred Wyatt has the Ja.rgest turnout he has ever had !or a la- crusse drill. All a vail able equipment has been issued to the squad of over eighty men who have reported fol' pmcticc. A tentative schedule haB oeen ar- ranged which will furnish plenty of keen competition for the Ga,J•net ten in the spring. At present con- tests at·e p<anned with Hobart, Wil- liams, RPI, Syracuse, Colgate a,nd Stevens. At least two more ga.mes are in the offing for the Garnet :varsity. · Preceeding the matches on the regular schedule will be a series of contests during the annual spring trip to Maryland. This trip wHL be made from March 27 to April 7 and .is liltely to include a tussle with the John Hopkins stick wielders :and several other strong southern teams. Union wiH field a t.eam which ernplndzes spePd and· dN'Pption. In Enstice and Whalen we have two exceptionally hard runners. The Garnets can count on quite a bit of aerial acti'lity to accompany the ground attack. Bartlett. Strauss, Whalen, Ensice, 2nd King are capable passers. Last Saturday, in a torrent of 11ain, the squad 'did not look too impressive. However, this week~s drills have endeavored to iron out all of the wrinkles in the Garnet attack. With Siegel hold- ing the ball, B9.rtlett sems to make the extra points a certainty. The St. Lawrence .\P'lm pnsses I well and likes to quick kick. Theil' main trouble may prove to be their inexperienced line. Men who lack football savvy, even if they are 245 pounds, are usually suckers f.or a mousetrap. And every Union player will be carrying one of those gadgets for a fuH sixty minutes. GRIDIRON BROTHERS. Jack and Jim Hefti are among three brother combinations on the 1946 St. Lawrence University football team. Jim, thr cldel' of the two Scarsdale, N.Y., boys, was selected to Liberty Magazine All-East team in 19!0 before entering military service. Ttaining thiti week has found thr experienced men on the squad pair- ing off with the inexperienced can- didates and giving them ad vice in the fundamentals of the game. For- mer Garnet stars Don Carstens '45 and AI Dingley 'iS have g.ven val- uable help to the newcomers dur·ing recent weeks. Managerial candidates Bill An· derson and Vern Whalen have aid- ed Coach Wyatt greatly in equip- ping and drilling the squad. Sev- eral more candidate managers are still needed and any men who de- sire such service should contact the coach as soon as possible. Lal'l'ies Are Big Facing he Union team will be a big St. Lawrence club. The Larries' .Jine will average in the neighbor- hood of 195 pounds and the backs -APPLETONuS 1 1671/2 JAY STREET Next to Minham's Men's Shop • COMPLETE SHOE REBUILDING • Zippers Replaced on Anything! First Contest in 19 Years STARTING LINE-UPS \ ur·s MAKE TOMORROW Here is the way the two teams I NUMBER ONE! This will be the first gridiron contest between the two schools in 19 years. At present the Union all time record against the Larries is 7 wins, 2 defeats, and 4 ties. We have scored a total of 110 points, in 13 contests, against their 44. This will also be the 450th football game in Union history and will be the beginning of our seventh decade in ~----~- --- ~- -~ will lineup when they meet on·,--------------- this sport. We want to see every Union Alexander Field at 2 p.m. tomor- row, unless either of the coaches decides to make sorr:e last minute changes . Union Westlund (98) Crone St. Lawrence Sherry (10) student, with or without a date,. Spezzano turned out for this game and every Shaeffer other home game. Remember, if you expect a winning team you'll DeBello have to let them know you are Keane behind them at all times . (22) (42) (82) (62) (41) (77) (40) LE LT LG c McKinley (43) J. Barron 137) Eysaman (20) RG W. Banon (40) Suggestion: If you have trouble Newton getting to sleep nights, try count- Whalen ing Union men crossing the St. Lawrence goal line. (It's really Siegel going to be that way on Saturday.) RT RE QB Scheim Maley Cochi (80) RH Hefti (44) (17) (22) (33) 0•----- Dutchmen Staged Sit-Down Strike Bartlett (81) Enstice (83) LH FB Guardino ( 4 ) Gat ens (25) The officials for this game will be Referee Kenneth DuBois (Wes- leyan), Umpire J. Emmett Dowling (Albany), and Linesman John' L. Blair (Temple). The opening game with St. Law- rence will signalize the 40th anni- ---------------------------- strike had resulted in thorough re- forms of college football rules which materially altered the spirit and objective of pigskin carrying. MY SHOPPING LIST IS OUT OF THIS WORLD! 1 A nice little house or /it\ comfortable apartment. ~ 2 A new car. e All these items are scarce today-so great is the demand-and it would be harder to buy a dozen Arrows than a house.. or a car. But your preferred shirt is coming back in greater quantities all the time. Why not drop around, we may have just your size? l! EVERYTHING ELECTRICAl. • I r -~·~II 206 CLINTON STREET You've a bright future, son •.• versary of a Union College sitdown strike. The strike occurred when Union students refused to play foot- ball in 1906 following the death of Harold R. \Blue\ Mo.ore of Ogdens- burg in a game against NYU in New York City in 1905. It resulted in reforms of playing rules which since 1906 have made American college football noted for fair play and sportsmanship. The tudent body v.oted to resume the gridiron sport a year after their PATRONIZE CONCORDIENSIS ADVERTISERS NUSBAUM~§ 4-17 - 451 STATE STREET ~---o----AR.I<OW SHIRTS AND TIES·---~ FRENCH CLEANERS and DYERS 129 JAY STREET • \Reliable Serviee\ • Phone 6-4295 f' . . . and the best place to start from, is the ERIE BARBER SHOP. You wUl find 4 barbers in constant attendance, who have repu- tations for alertness, smart hair cutting and cleanliness. You are always sure of the best at .•• ERIE BARBERSHOP 22 Erie Boulevard COLONIAL ICE CREAM CO. Ice Cream at Its Best 134 Mohawk Avenue Phone 6-3443 Scotia usURE IS TOUGH Before you grab your old Mustang or Hellcat and start getting your favorite Arrow shirts the EASY way, try your favorite Arrow dealer- he may have just the one you want next time. IJ/li(OW SHIRTS, TIES, HAHDKE!(Cij/EfS, SPORTS SHIR.TS ANO UNDERWEAR.

4 Youre It! (Continued From Page 2) check-ups. If this is impossible im- press others by always mal,ing love at athletic contests and under street lamps. If date is uncooper- ative try slipping her hashish some- time during the evening. Always make loud, indicative remarks in all men's rooms visited. \H. Wear clothes from impressive stores at all times. If you can't af- ford this try sewing Brooks' Broth- ers' labels into all garments. At times neglecting to remove price tags fvom expensive .articles of clothing helps. Also remember that having everything initialed from stntionpr·y to thf' pHsonnlized bPPl' bottle \\a~ the cause of many a man's success.\ Forgeforward looh:ed up, but Si- lns had long ago tip-toed from the room. As Seigft·ied had reached \E\, Si- las had slipped silent!)' into the spacious outer office where Mich- elle wns hopping around some wait- ing clients. Careful even of his breathing he tried to slip past her, but all was to no avail. She grab- bed him at the mtter door. \Isn't he wonderful?\ she purred. \Isn't he dynamic?\ Silas nodded in agreement and once more attempt- ed to reach the exit, but this time it wa:> his own curiosity that check- ed him and not the> effervescent secretary. \Say he asked in a hushed voice, \didn't you say that you were the only gil 1 he ever loved? How con1e ?'' She beckoned him to come closer and for the first time opened her suit jacket bal'ing a large pocket attached to her stomach. \My mother was a kang-aroo,\ she whis- pered winking lecherously. Silas fled from the office. * * * \Ve ttu n this monslro.ity over to 1 Wally Wiggins for next week with 1 loving hands. Topic is \It's Union's 1 Ex .. Service Nurse Will Aid Ill Men A fo1·mer Army nurse and vet- eran of the Pacific War, Miss Elea- nor Marie Sawicki of 5 Madison Street, Schenectady, has been ap- pointed Union College nm·se to as- sist Dr. Murray Wagner in the new full-time student health program, it was announced today by Dr. Carter Davidson, president. She will begin duties next month. Miss Sawicki served with the Army Nurse Corps in the China- Burma-India theater from 19~1 to 1945 and received the Asiatic-Paci- fic campaign ribbon, the Bronze Star, and American thealet· and American Victory ribbons. A grad- uate of St. Peters Training School in Albany, Miss Sawicki studied at Syracuse University before entering general duty in 1937. She served in the public health service from 1942 to 1943 before entering the armed forces. ... :.. DALEY'S Restaurant FINE FOOD 412 STATE ST. Game.\ 1 .....,.. THE GAZETTE PRESS MEN'S SHOP McGregor Sportwear Manhattan Shirts Lee Hats Printers FERRO'S RESTAURANT Spaghetti and Meat Balls Our Specially Rochester Tailored Clothing 169 JAY ST. 1115 BARRETT STREET ~- ---------------------------------------1 I I I I I I i SEAL TEST HOMOGENIZED I : VITAMIN D MILK l I 'I I J ! Phone 4-3121 1 ! l L-----~-----------------------------------------~ ~111111111111111111111111111111111 ~II~\ ~I~\; II~ Ill \\\ IIIII III\ 1111111111 \\'I _ FIGHT LOCOMOTIVE THE CHANT - Fight - Fight - Fight - Fight ~ - - - - - Un-ion, Un-ion Fight - Fight . Fight - Fight 6 - Un-ion, Un-ion N ___ • _ Fight - Fight - Fight - Fight FIGHT! e Un-ion, Un-ion = Team! Team! Team! FIGHT YELL - THE ECHO u u N I 0 N I 0 N--\'--N Un-ion, Fight! Rah, Rah, Union -~ Fight, Fight, Union §: Fight Team, Fight Team - 1 Fight! Fight! Fight! II INDIVI~~~; YELL ~I Rah- Rah- Rah- Rah- :I Jones - THE CHERRYBOMB §I =I (Long Whistle) § 1 (Explosion) -=::: Union! Dutchmen! Team! - - ;111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 II II II II 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 llh'l FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 27. 1946 THE D E . A L I demonstration of need which was to submit a full budget covering Veteran's Wives Will Meet substantiated by the submission of their expenses and income for one budgets by the ecpplicants. month to Mr. Ketz in Room seven During the year 1945-46, Union ' The awards were made from the of the Administration Building. The College pursued a policy of award- Frank Bailey Student Aid Fund payment of awards will begin in ing grants-m-aid to married vet- and they reached a maximum October. erans to assist them in balancing monthly award of $495.00 in May An organizational meeting at the home of Mrs. W. H. Ketz on Wed- nesday evening, Octoper 2. the present registration of veterans is 982. In a conference held recently, colleges of Union's size had varying percentages of married students in their veteran population, running from five to twenty-five per cent. At Union College, 17.8 per cent of om· veterans are married. their budgets. The college recog- and June. The college during the Throughcmt the state of New nizes that in some cases the small year made total awarcls of $2,1:1:5.00. York there are 6,879 veterans in differential permitted by the Fed- This policy of assisting married training under Public Law No. 16 era! Government under the G.I, Bill veterans who can demonstrate need and 81, 434 veterans under Public of Rights in subsistence payments is to be continued during the com- Law No. 346. Thirty-eight thousand, between single .and married vet- ing year to the extent of available three hundred and thirty-eight o f erans was not sufficient to enable funds. All veterans desiring to ap- the men under the G.I. Bill ef them to meet their budget. These ply for these student grants (at a Rights are in colleges and profes- grants-m-aid were awrded up('n the maximum of $25.00 per month) are sional schools. At Union College ----------------~------~------------~~--~ BEl Bl 1 Vol. LXXIV, 'J. Do Jj Comm. :DriveJ Facility, Personn (,'ollege The Union the Schenect ·was launch<>• 2, according · Professor of ; of the drive ye~t· m the : of those wh · since the st decision, wn : tl'ibuticms at ' cording to st : student cam ' taken to p1 fund to ans1 upon them. The Comm i which got o1 'start on We i ried on arne i fleers, fn cult: 1 and general , For the pur ; the director l pointmen t o ~ sis tan t to t 1 directot·. C buildings or also been E Administrati Bailey Hall, 1 Chen,Jstry 1 i Electrical . I P1·ofessor B Building, D1 Engineering I Morse; Ph I Vladimir 1 Building, D l brm-y, :Mr. i stot·e, Mt·s. i lj Force, Mr. ' House, Mr.' I Hall, D1·. House, Mt Gymnasium, Geology Bu C. Smith; B The quot: College by 1 Chest comrr college cam] day, Octobc pected that NewCc Library The Knc better kno\ the Library changes in 1 The checkin is now mec has a card plnte beari1 Instead of signee has machine th: the library t€'m avoi.ds legible sign The great ~t udent boc change in Tl:e Chi PE a new lccat led the inst tiona! rows 1.\hich was was enlarg< The inct has been r the result ' new IJghtin are bemg r lubes and well as us• highly plea loolt fcrwa this projec All the improveme· by the stu is reflectcc increase in the membe A nu•<>tir in becomir of the 194< the Stude Monday, 0 editorial be th<> Junior A~~i~tnnts <'la\~\\ T p<>ri<>nce t pete for p board in I