trusts I . Founded at Unimt College in 1877 Vol. L~fV,, No, 29 SCHENECl'ADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1947 Price 10c: Alumni Begin Festive Commencement Weekend March, Dance* ~\''\\'\'\'\\''\\'\\\\'\\'\\'\'\\'\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\'\\'\~i warren H 0 nora ry Chancellor AndReunions -_4.30-6w!:e~e~~d~r~Davi~n~i~~~h~e~o~eniors,§As TTnl·o.n fYOn· .ee¥~ 111 Dey·. rees On Schedu . I alumni, faculty and guests V J t/~ f ~ I 0 ': , · , , , \ e -- 7.30 p.m. Al'\mni Night. Band ·Concert, fireworks, informal§· Unicm College's 152nd Com-~------­ Alumni, alumni, alumni, 1100 of them, are convergiRg on Union College far her first full dress Commencement Weekend siE.ce before the war. The Weekend will start at 1 :30 p. m. this afternoon with the traditional \Alouette\ singing ht Memorial Chapel, followed by Class Day exer-: cises in. Jackson's Garden. June 6 Program At 4:00p.m., aftet· the Class Da~· Program has been completed and the Seniors are relaxing with glasses in hand, teas will be given in most fraternity houses. At 6 p. m., a free dinner, spon- sored by the Schenectady Alumni Association, will be held in Hale House for all alumni whose classes are not scheduled for reunions this year, faculty and graduating sen- iors. Reservations must be made at either the General Engineering Building or at the Hotel Van Cur- ler. Reunion dinners for the classes of '98, '02, '07, '12, '17, '22, '27, '32, '42, and '44 will be held tonight. The classes of '09 and '29, though not reunion classes this year, will also have special dinners. The time and place for each dinner may be found in the schedule on this paRe. At 8 p. m., there will be a meet- ing of the Board of Tmstees in the President's Office in the Adminis- tration Building. The Board will meet again tomorrow morning at 10:30, in the same place. The Board of Governors will meet in the President's Office· at 10:00 a. m. Saturda~i morning. Alumni Procession Grand Marshall of the Alumni parade will be T. Warren Allen, retired civil engineer and member of the class of '86. His aids will include: .J. Leslie Schoolcraft, Schenectady County Republican chairman, chief aide; Henry B. Parker, W. Ashton Swick, and Al- vin F. Nitchman, all of Schenec- tady. The procession of costumed al- umni will begin at 10:30 a. m. June 7, at the General Engineer- ing Building. All alumni should be there b·efore that time, so that there will be no delay in starting. Each reunion class will march in a group. All alumni, who are not in reunion classes, will march the Old Guard Division of the parade. <Continued on Page .6) ----o---- Grad. Council on Record for Field House Memorial In the spring meeting. of the Graduate Council late in May, the Council went on record with the Board of Trustees in recommend- ing the designation of an Athletic Field House as the Memorial to t~e Union College men who served m the late war. This matter ~as been under discussion for some tt~~ ?-nd every effort will be made to lntttate a campaign in the near future. The matter has also been refe~·red . to the Student Council for thetr opm- io~he Council. also voted to aslt C. N. Waldron, '06, Alumni Sect:etary E ·'t to begin his memmrs of meu us, . . 1 wn to Union College. Charlie IS mo d rgraduates of practically all un e the present day as well as those runing back to 1901 when he camt here as a Freshma_n. Theer:t~~~ will be carried out ~n ~~~F Office. with the Gt·a~ua;~tedou$9,189.03 to The Alumm • habilitation of cover the cost of 1 e . t date Al . Gymnasmm o · the umm . . 1913 has been The Gym, butlt 111 • late! due to suffering quite a btt a it has average and overuse a~~ constant been necessary to m ture repairs to the old struc ' dance i·n gymnasium. Admission $1.00 - SUNDAY, JUNE 8 §10.3@ a.m. Commencement Exercises in Memorial Chapel ==_== 4.00 p.m. Organ Recital, Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh l>aylight Saving Time FRIDAY, JUNE 6 2.3(!) p.m. Class Day Exercises in Jackson's Garden 4.0(!) p.m. Fratt-rnity teas in the Chapter Houses 6.00 p.m. All-Alumni Dinner for classes not having reunions 6.30 p.m. Reunion Class Dtnners. For exceptions, see your class § correspondence 8.00 p.m. Meeting of the Board of Trustees, President's Office § SATURDAY, JUNE 7 S10.00 a.m. Meeting of the Board of Governors, President's Office:: E: 10.30 a.m. Meeting of Board of Trustees, President's Office :: §_10.30 a.m. Alumni Procession, starting from General Engineering!:! Building :: § 11.00 a.m. Review of Alumni Procession on Front Campus, by:: President, Trustees, and Reunion Cups Committee :: The class of 1947 will be received into the alumni body= : 11.3[} a.m. Lacrosse, Varsity vs. Alumni, Library Field :: = 12.00-1 Balloting for Alumnus Trustees in Old Chapel :: :: 12.45 p.m. Alumni Luncheon in gymnasium :: § 2.30 p.m. Annual Meeting, Phi Beta Kappa, English Room, :: Bailey Hall :: 3.00 p.m. Baseball, Union vs. R.P.J., Alexander Field. Admission,~­ ~ fifty cents _ ;n llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll i i lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll r. Class Day Ceremonies Feature Pipe and Jug One of the last official functions of the Class of 1947 will beO'in this afternoon at 1:30 when the Seniors hold their annual\' Alouette Sing in Old Chapel. The sing, led by Phil Barnett and Fred Bronner, Jr., marks the opening of Class Day Exercises for this year. At this time short verses are suno· to each member of the graduating class, pointing up his foibles and weaknesses, and occasionally, only occasion- ally, his good point. To Plant Ivy After the Alouette verses, the Senior Class, under the guidance of Class Marshal Bill Jameson, will march to the Psychology Lab where they will plant ivy at the base of the walls. The living walls of green on all the buildings today are growing memories of an old tradition that mak-es Union's cam- pus one of the most beautiful in the country. Joe Lesley and Irv Rosen will direct the ceremony. From there the seniors will pro- ceed to Jackson's Garden where, on the sight of the old Nott Elm, the rest of the program will con- tinue. Here Ed Stefic, president of the class, will introduce the speakers. Class Historian Chet Marvin will give a review of the varied life of the group which in- cludes, as well as forty members of the original Class of '47, twenty- eight men from '45, nineteen from '44, an.d oth~rs rapging down to '39, which has one representative. Horstmann Holds Jug The Pipe Oration will be de- livered by David Staub. This piece of philosophy is designed as an unofficial Baccalaureate sermon in slang, Following the passing of the pipe of peace will be the pass- ing of the jug of fellowship with Bob Horstmann as Keeper of the Jug. The Jug Oration will set the pace for the Senior Class beer party to be held in the upper gar- dens after the exercises are over. Keeper Horstmann has promised a \delightful and tantalizing con- coction\ to set the party, which is rapidly becoming a tradition too, moving on the right plane. In charge of the party will be Doug Slingerland, Karl Sohlberg and John Adamzevich. Aiding and assisting along the line will be Chuck Brandow and Owen Young, class secretary and treasurer, respectively. The Fac- ulty committee appointed to aid .the departing class includes Prof. A. H. Fox, Bill Ketz and Fred Wyatt. Davidson Announces New Fall Faculty Appointments President Carter Davidson has recently announced the appoint- ment of eighteen new members of the faculty as well as two addition- al members for the summer term only. He also announced the de- parture of five of the present members of the faculty. _______ _ Those leaving Union will be 'P Prof. William B. Axtell, Union '34, fessor of Civil Engineering. He is Assistant Professor ·Of Psychology now a member of the Ohio State and Education, who will pursue faculty where he received both his graduate work in Syracuse Univer- bachelor and professional degrees sity; Dr. John C. Fet2:er, Assistant in his field. He served with the Professor of Economics and Busi- Army Corps of Engineers in Alaska ness Administration, who will as- and the South Pacific during the sume the chair of Associate Pro- war. fessor of Finance and Insurance at Dr. Frederick A. Klemm will be- Rutgers University; Dr. Ernest E. come Assistant Professor of Ger- Dale. Associate Professor of Bioi- man. He is a graduate of Dickin- ogy, will journey to California to son College, earned his Master's undertake research work in gen- degree at Duke University and his etics while on Sabbatical leave; Ph.D. at the University of Pennsyl- and Robert B. Sears, Assistant vania, where he is now a member Reference Librarian, who is leav- of the faculty. He spent three ing to enter business; and George years in the Army Military In· Hanson, Instructor in Geology, telligence service. who will continue graduate work Dr. Harold G. Avery will sue· at Harvard. ceed Dr. Fetzer as Associate Pro- Prof. Harry A. Hawley will take fessor of Economics. He received over a position as Associate Pro- (Continued on Page 6) mencement Exercisis Su11day will feature the awarding of honorary degrees to seven candidates and bachelors de- grees to 104 under grad nates. President Carter Davidson will confer the citations for the honorary degrees and the bachelors degrees. Professor Emeritus John l\Iarch will vest the honorary Hoods. Honorary degrees w.Ul go to Governor Earl Wanen of Cali- fornia; Revington L. Embree ol' Rock Hall, Md.; James Wingate of Duanesburg, N.Y.; Gordon R. Langley of Petersborough, Canada; Cha·rles F. F. Garis; William Jan- sen, of New York City; and James R. Killian. Jr. Warren Honored Govemor Warren will be the principal speaker at the Com- mencement Exercises. He is a graduate of the University of Cali- fornia and the Boalt Hall of Law. He has risen through the many State positions he has held since 1919 and is frequently mentioned as a presidential candidate. Embree, Union '16 Mr. Hevington L. Embree attend- ed Union College in the class of 1916. He was active in extra-cur- ricular activities and president of the Student Christian association. Following graduation, he served as science master, then principal, in the Albert Academy in Casa Blanca, Morocco. He return'ed to the United States in 1923 to re- ceive his master's degree at Teach- ers College of Columbia University. In 1924 he went to Monrovia, Liberia, as president of the College of West Africa. \1\Thile on leave of absence from the College, he wrote the Education Act of 1937, which still serves as the basic educational law of the republic. In 1939, he was awarded the decoration of \Knight Official of the Humane Order of the Redemption of Africa.\ During ·the war, Mr. Embree served in the Army intelligence. He was made acting head of the O.S.S. in Liberia, until the arrival of mili- tary personnel. Jam-es Wingate graduated from Union in the class of '97. Upon graduation, he was associated with <Continued on Page 6) Main Speaker GOV. EARL WARREN Students to Advise '51 A new orientation policy will be instituted next fall with the advent of the Class of 1951. The program will be based upon student as well as .faculty advisors to all freshmen. The new .system will be closely in- tegrated with the old one and will place heavy emphasis on extra- curricular activities. Bernard McGivern, Chairman of the Joint Student Council anu Board of Managers Committee on Orientation, has drawn up plans for increased participation among the students, particularly among the senior class, to aid in giving the entering freshmen a good start at college. The program calls for approxi- mately eighty- upperclassmen to ad- vise and inform four freshmen apiece. Each freshman will receive a Jetter from his student advisor sometime during the summer, tell- ing him a little about Union and about the Advisory system. When college begins in the fall the ad- visor will look up the four fresh- men assigned to him and acquaint them with various activities and programs that function during, the (Continued on Page 3) College Institutes Board Of Visitors for Next Year Union College has called on a group of the nation's top business men, educators, and scientists for help in maintaining a \healthy practicality of objective\ in its education of young men who must solve the problems of the post-war atomic age. President Carter Davidson today '>•---- announced the establishment of a series of \Boards of Visitors\ com- posed of scientists, business men· and educators to serve as auxilia- ries to the college trustees on policy-, curriculum, personnel, and equipment for each of the college's major departments. The Boards of Visitors will offer council and sug- gestions for improvement to trus- tees, department heads and the col- lege administration. Thirty-one men have already ac- cepted invitations to serve on the Boards of Visitors for physics, psychology, English, economics, and chemistry. These five departments are to ·serve as an experimental group to determine further expan- sion of the plan. Appointments include Dr. Wil- liam D. Coolidge, dir.ector emeritus of the General Electric Research laboratory-; Dr. Edward U. Condon, director of the U.S. Bureau of Standar.ds; Dr. Walter V. Bingham, chief psychologist of the Army per- sonnel procedure section; Dr. Archi- bald Rutledge, author; Alfred A. Knopf, Sr., publisher; Dean J. D. Brown of Princeton University; and Dr. Howard R. Bowen, econo- mist of the Irving Trust Company. In announcing the new advisory boards, President Davidson said, \During the past two years, Union College has reviewed her ex- perience during a century and a half of pioneering in education sinc-e 1795. The college faculty has worked out revised curricular re- quirements establishing a new bal~ ance between ·major, general, and elective studies. Freshman and professional advisory programs for students have been reformulated and opportunities for character, social, and p·ersonality development have been strengthened through extra-curricular and fraternity activities. \Union is now calling on other educators and on the nation's out- standing employers of college grad- uates-our business men, govern- ment, industry, scientists, and serv- ice workers-to evaluate the result being accomplished and make d-efi- nite sUggestions for improvements.\ Graduation of 104 men in .Memoria:! Chapel on June 8 will mark the 152nd cam- FHencement exel'cise here at Union College. This will be the first normal graduation since 1942. Exercises will l>egin with the fortnation of th'e academic proces- sion of graduates, faculty, Union University deputation candidates and deans, trustees, and honor guests, on the campus at 10:15 a.m. Commencement will begin formally at 10:30 in Memorial Chapel. Wa.rrPn to Speak Principle speaker on the pro- gram will be Gqvernor Earl War- ren of California, prominent mem- ber of the Republican Party and possible presidential timber for 1948. Governor Warren's address will ,be broadcast over Station WGY beginning at 11:15 a.m. Dr. Enrico Fermi, s~heduled to speak to the graduating class, will be unable to appear due to ill health. Dr. Fermi is noted among other things for the great part which he played in the research leading to the development of th-e atom bomb. Seven Honorary Degrees Folowing Governor Warren's ad- dress Walter C. Baker, chairman of the Coll-ege Board of Trustees, will present seven candidates for honorary degrees, including Gov- ernor Warren; Revington L. Em- bree, Rock Hall, Md.; Dean Charles F. F. Garis, Schenectady; James Wingate, Duanesburg; Gordon Rus- sell Langley, Peterborough, Can- ada; William Jensen, Brooklyn; and James R. Killian, Jr., Cam- bridge, Mass. Professor emeritus John L. March will invest the candidates with th-e hood of the degree after President Carter Davidson confers the citations. Undergraduate Speakei'S Three high ranking scholars from the graduating class have (Continued on Page 6) ---0·--- Twelve Classes to Hold Reunions Over Weekend '97-Meet at Van Curler at 4:30, then to Dr. McMullen's for dinner. '02-Hotel Van Curler, tonight at 7:00. '07-Tonight at 6:30 at Nicho- laus's. Informal get to- gether tomorrow night at Dudley Hill's. '12-Mohawk Country Club, to- morrow night at 6:00. '17 Tonight at 6:30 at Chez Andre (Hotel Van Dyckl. Tomorrow night at Fran- kel's on Randolph Road for cocktails. '22-Tonight at 6:30 at the Van Curler. '27-Tonight at 7:00 at Otto's on the Troy Road. '32-Tonight at 6:30 at Hale House. '37-Tonight at the Van Curler at 6:30. '42-Tonight at 7:30 at the Van Curler. '44-Tonight at 8:00 at USO Bldg., 205 Clinton St. The folowing classes not having reunions wil hold din- ners also: '09-Tonight at the Van Curler. '29-Get together tonight at 8:00 in Room 207, Van Curler. Copies of this week's CON- COR.DIENSIS are being mailed to the Incoming Class of 1951, as an aid In their indoctrina- tion next fall.

2 FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1'947 of 1947 • In Class Graduates C!rnurnt BACHELOR OF ARTS - ---------------~---------...,..,....--- Donald Hartley Aker, as of the Class of 1946-Albany, N.Y. Paul Edward Roberts, as of the Class of 1945-Schenectady, N.Y. Roger William Graham-Olean, N.Y. Alvin Volkman-Br~oklyn, N.Y. John Alanzo Vosburtfh, Jr., as of the Class oi 1945-Wat\n'vliet N.Y. \.1 C./111./ P<11.1 P.uole A•ui\ :\Iembtr _-\_dt'!ioda·ted Col- l~giate l 1 ress awl distt'i- hutor of the Colle!( Ia te lligest. :s\a.tiollaJ At!Yer- ti::;ing Ht-IH't'Benta·th·l·; :\a- t-ional All\'erti~ing ~t:·n·it·t·. lm·., l 'olleg~ 1-'ullli~ht-r:-. Hl~vre;:-;t'tltutivt\ 1211 .:\ladi- son AYe., :-;, Y. l'_ l'ub- lished every ~'ritlay .,f the ·whool yea t·. ~ditorial llffkt·, \Ya~hhut 1'1 Hall, l'nioll !'ollege, l'uh- lil'a.tion Ufflt•e, The t ia- zettt> Pte:->~. a:H titate St. Eutt·t:t:·d in the ~·khenl·c·­ t:ulv Po:-~t l ,ffic~e as Sl•c·- ·Jtni l 'I a::-~ SlaH ~la.t ter. --.uht't'riptiou \Ue a l'OIIY; $:: yeal'; dl\li'\'e.tetl aiJY- \\here 111 the l~uitt'd Stntl·~ \1.\:-i.-\W:'IIi BO \ltll I.ot H. ('nuke, Jr. l'rult~· F. )llh•hHII ..... Hulwrt lhtrtl~tt-. - Hurwun La\ilu~r ... I.P,liP llPn·runt. 'I Prt.un su.rnuff. Good Luck! . ... Ellitnr-in-('hit'f . :\lnnttA'ing Editor .. .. X('\\ Editul' . . SI)ort,s Etlitur (']I•(•Uilltlllll )illllll~\r BH..,illl''\\ :li.IWll-:.!.1 1 1' This Sunday in the 1\lemorial Chapel, the 104 graduates of the Class of '47 will receive thei1· bachelor's degrees, the final step in passing from the college scene. We have known some of these men well, many casually, others not at all; therefol'e it is difficult to be anything but g·eneml in our farewells. It seems a common failing of editors to become rather misty-eyed and flov-:ery in these farewells. It isn't fitting or necessary to play the poet with these men. It is fitting, however, to cite the difficulties under which they worked and the perseverance throughout ·which they succeeded. If for no other t·eason, the Class of '47 was unique in that it was the ri1·st one composed mainly of returning- vet- erans. Many were resuming studies which they had dropped four yea1·s ago. The rust that inevitably had accumulated was well-embedded. In spite of this these men are graduat- ing. The conclusion is left to the reader. LeRoy Waller Blessing--Albany, I-rving Ephraim Rosen- Troy, N.Y. N.Y. Charles Franklin Brandow, Jr., James Richard Saylor-Parkes- as of the Class of 1945-Schenec-. burg, Penna. · tady, N.Y. Norman Schwartz-Bronx, N.Y. Jack Lee Bresee, as of the Class Robert Lewis Scott- Schen-ec- of 1946, Oneonta, N.Y. tady, N.Y. Frederick V. Bronner J-r., as of Rodney Paul Scoville-Glovers- the Class of 1946, Schenectady, N.Y. ville, N.Y. Joseph Carol--Schenectady, N.Y. Jerome Paul Shifter, as of the William Thomas Connors, as of Class 0 f !946-Forest Hi·J.ls, Long the Class of 1945-Little Neck. Island. Long Island. Donald Harold Sommers, as of Harold Arthur Drake, as of the the Class of 1945-Albany, N.Y. Class of 1945-Malone, N.Y. David Winiam Staub-Brooklyn, Theodore Joseph Fuchs-New N.Y. York City. Robert Henry Stegemann Rogers Hepbm·n Green, as of tht' Queens Village, Long Island. Class of 1943-Montclair, N.J. Mark Tishler, Jr., as -of the Class George William Haas, Jr.-Mont- of 1945-Newport, R.I. clair, N.J. Frederick WiJ.liam Trab0ld, Jr., Joseph Vincent Harmon, Jr., as as of the Class ef 1944-Bucks of the Class of 1945-Albany, N.Y. County, Penna. Wilfred Gray Hot·sman, Jr., as of · Raymond Clarence Wedlake, as the Class of 1944-Albany, N.Y. of the Class of 1943-Schenectady, Robert Jay Horstmann, as of the N.Y. Class of 1944-ScGtia, N.Y. Donald Alan Willey, as of the Garrett Robertson Jessen, as of Class af 1946-N-iskayuna, N.Y. the Class of 1944-Schenectady, N.Y. Wilbur LeRoy Williams-Staten William Vern~n J·ehnson, -as o£ Island, N.Y. the Class of 1944-Troy, N.Y. Robert Fineout Winne, as of the Albert Mortan Kronick, as of the Class 0f 1945-Rhinebeck, N.Y. Class of 1944-Amsterdam, N.Y. Benjamin Webb Wiltsie, as of James William Lemke, as of the the Class of 1945-Binghamton, N.Y. Class of 1946-Geneva, N.Y. Donald Kellogg Wray, as of the Joseph John Lesley, Jr.-Sche- Class of 1943-Rochester, N.Y. nectady, N.Y. Robert Herman Mendelson, as of BACHELOR OF SCIENCE the Class of 1945- Woodmer-e, Long John James Adamzevich, as of Island. the Class of 1943-Gr.eenport, N.Y. Hubert Aage Mikkelsen --Sche- Benjamin Phillips Barnet, as of nectady, N.Y. the Class of 1945-New York City. Borden Hicks Mills, Jr., as of the Arnold M. Baskin-Albany, N.Y. Class of 1945-Albany, N.Y. Albert John Birch-Schenectady, Hugh Alan Nelson, as of the N.Y. Class of 1946-Erie, Penna. · Anthony Duke Bower, as of the James Shaw Paris, as of the Class of 1946-Albany, N.Y. Class of 1945-Hudson Falls, N.Y. Victor James ChristophH, as of Robert Wilson Plunkett, as of the Class of 1944-Broadalbin, N.Y. the Class of 1945-Troy, N.Y. Alpheus George Davis-Schenec- James Edward Quinlan, Jr., as of tady, N.Y. the Class of 1945-Schenectady, Paul Glicksman, as of the Class N.Y. of 1945-Passaic, N.J. Also worthy of note is their renewed contl'ibution to the. L g-eneral tonus of Union's life. When they 1·eturned, the c.ol- e t George Do It ' • Alan Horwitz, as of the Class of 1939-Syracuse, N.Y. Melvin Horwith-Brooklyn, N.Y. LeGrande Ridgway Howell-East Moriches, Long Island. Wi.Jliam John Jameson, Jr., as of the Class of 1946-Schenectady, N.Y. John Monroe Wanen, as of the Class of 1944-Fort Plain, N.Y. Gwen W. Young-Ddlmar, N.Y. Chester Vincent :Zabielski, as of the Class of 1945-Schenectady, N.Y. Melvin Dean Jones - Schenec- B.S. in E.E. tady, N.Y. Ferderick William Brandt, Jr.- Edwin Daniel Knight, as of the New York City. Class of 1945-Buffalo, N.Y. Oscar Regers Kreusi, as ef the Robert Wilson Brooks-Johnson Class of 1945-Texarkana, Texas. City, N.Y. J•ames Russell Langwig, Jr.- Richard Nichols Bullock - St. Syracuse, N.Y. James, N.Y. Charles David Lothridge, as of John McGrew Copeland, Beaver, the Clss of 1944-Walervliet, N.Y. Penna. William Richard Luc-as-Dover Plains, N.Y. · John Aloysius McCarthy, as of the Glass of 1945-Lebanon Springs, N.Y. Chester Tolles Marvin, as of the Class of 1945-Ansonia, Conn. Philip Lionel Meisel-Amster- dam, N.Y. Edwin Leslie Mincher, as of the Class of 1944-Schenectady, N.Y. Rexford George Moon, Jr., as of the Class of 1944-Schenectady, N.Y. George Clyde Owen, as of the Class of 1942-Schenectady, N.Y. William Daniel Robusto-Am- sterdam, N.Y. Marvin Schondorf - Bloomfield, N.J. Sidney Schwaber, as of the -Class of 1944-Schenectady, N.Y. Douglas Alden Slingerland, as of the Class of 1943-Schenectady, N.Y. Karl Rebert Sohlberg, as of the Class of 1944-Schenectady, N.Y. Edward Charles Stefic, as of the Class of 1945-Gloversv!lle, N.Y. Joseph John Stellato, as of the Class of 1943-Rome, N.Y. William Melville McCheyne Thom- son, as of the Class of 1944- Albany, N.Y. David Alfred Tilly, as of the Class of 1944-Poland, N.Y. Stephen Curtis Dapson, Jr., as of the Class of 1942-Little Falls, N.Y. William Christian Dersch, Jr.- West Lawn, Pa. Nelson Otto Beyer-Rochester, N.Y. Joseph Michael Hihchey-Elm- hurst, Long lsland. Samuel Dale Howard-Hiawatha, Kansas. Daniel Hallock Kingsland, Jr., as of the Class of 1944-New Rochelle, N.Y. Terence John McDade-Buffalo, N.Y. Herbert Gerard Pascalar-Sche- nectady, N.Y. Patrick Joseph Scutella, as of the Class of 1945-0lean, N.Y. Gilman Stanley Talbot, Jr.- John Malcolm Todd, III-Sche- nectady, N.Y. William Wallace, III-Brooklyn, N.Y. B.S. IN CHEMISTRY Joseph Hooker Dusenbury, as of the Class of 1945-Schenectady, N.Y. Arthur Carl Glamm, as of the Class of 1945-Amsterdam, N.Y. William Frank Marzluff, as of the Class of 1945-Rochester, N.Y. Dorsey Opie Thomas, Jr.-Sche- nectady, N.Y. by Two Members of the Graduating Class lege )ay letharg-ically in a state of enforced pr·ostration, devoid of spirit, fraternities weak, student government crumbling. It was these men who took hold and lifted Union to its present level. Credit where credit is due! Let George Do It! i------------------------------------------------------------- Of course, the graduating- class presented some vexing problems to the administration and in some cases missed the boat; but they are the last to claim they are perfect. The main point is that these men came back and had what it takes to come through. To them, the best of luck, and con- tinued success. One to Ponder It has been Union College's policy in the past to admit students of various religious beliefs, Protestant, Catholic and Jewish. Admissions have m general emphasized scholastic merit, and rightly so. Union has prided itself on being liberal and truly tolerant in demanding- no special ad- herence in matters of faith. However, it has come to our attention from a first-hand source that there is gradual pressure being exe1·ted to make Union take a definite stand on religious policy. In short, the desired end is that the colleg-e will define its particular in- terpretation of Christianity and admit students who do or will subscribe to that definition. This supposedly would clear up whatever \bad feeling\ exists among the various groups on campus. To us, this is a far-reaching and dangerous aim. First, the inter-religious situation at Union is well above average in our opmwn. Therefore, the ultimate g-oal of such a plan would be to make Union sectarian in some respect, whether an outright sect or not. Who can foretell the number of worthy men who would be excluded? Secondly, would this plan do anything· constructive in establishing inter-credal understanding? The answer is in the negative and for this reason: as many men in the service found out, intermingling with others different from oneself affords valuable experience and a wider scope of values. Union has always afforded this experience. But now, some would have Union men restricted to an ever-tightening- group, more and more alike in ideas and background. Once a movement of this sort starts, it is difficult to halt. And the losers would not only be those excluded but those in- cluded, who would later find that their education had been circumscribed in a very real and practical aspect of living. Summer School Registration Summer School registrations will begin on June 16, in Silliman Hall; men whose last names begin A-K report 8:00-9:00; L-Z report 9:30-10:30. Classes will begin at 1:30 p.m. Monday, June 16. There will be classes on Saturday morning for the first week only. Maxi- mum expenditure under G.I. Bill will be $117.64; for surveying, $58.83. Other expenses must be borne by the veteran unless he signs a Form 1950a. Not so long ago, the Senior class held its last meeting of under- graduate days. Laudable. At this time, the same Senior class sat apathetically by as a member proposed a five-point pro- gram to be advocated by the June graduates. Basic Proposals This group was given a chance to make sever·al basic recommenda- tions to the college. The most salient feature of the proposed pro- gram was the complet-e separation of re Jigious services from the as- sembly system, as it now exists. This same class. whose members spent the greater portion of the year vociferiously decrying a sys- tem which bribed men to attend religious services passed up their one chance to go on record as dis- approving. It was amusing, as well as dis- gusting, to watch a group of men so afraid of voicing .an opinion that they would refuse categori- cally to touch an issue that they obviously considered important. Here was a chance to indicate a feeling as a consolidated group; it is apparently more important not to stir up any controversy whatso- ever than to have the courage of one's convictions. We are sorry to see that the Senior class is afraid to say offi- cially what they have said individ- ually all year. We, as members of the aforementioned Senior class, are ashamed of the majority of our fellows. Larrabee's Logic Class Edges Experts' Baseball Predictions You don't have to be a big league expert to predict baseball stand· ings. Ask any of Prof. H. A. Lar- rabee's class of fifty students in logic and the scietnific method who have just concluded an experiment by actually making the predictions. The results, due largely to the col- lapse of the St. Louis Cardinals, were not very impressive, yet they were better than the cont-rol group of eight \experts\ from newspaper and major league circles. After a week's study of past per- formances and columnists' reports, two groups of twenty-five men each made their predictions. Blanks were sent to a panel of sports edi- tors and secretaries of major league clubs. All three groups filed their prognostications before April 15 when play began. The National League predictions of the students were oc an average of 2.5 places per team, St. Louis fouling things up, and the Amer·i- can League standings were only 1.5 wrong on the average. They ex- celled the panel of experts in per- centage points and tied them in place errors. One remarkable re- suit was that the standings of teams in both leagues as prophe· sied by the students and the ex- perts, were identical. The best single set of predictions was made by a student who scored an average of percentage error of only 69 points in the National Leag-ue and 50 In the American League. The best single prediction among the outsiders was off an average of 96 points in the Na- tional League and 108 percentage points in the American League, al- though a sports editor for a New York paper who picked places only, not percentages, scored an error of only 1,2 places in the American League and 2.5 in the National. Two students tied for lowest error in places in the Amer- ican with an average of only 0.7 error. This means that in prog- nosticating pupils caled the league so well that they were less than one place in error. The experiments are a part of the program of investigation of the techniques of predicting events in the social studies which has been carried on for several years in Prof, Larrabee's classes. r····----~------·----------------------------~ SEAL TEST HOMOGENIZED VITAMIN D MILK I J Phone 4·3121 J -t------------------------------------·---------------~-_J Field houses come up for con- sideration. That is all very fine. But, any such construction is, of necessity, ethereal at the present time. Unlimited activities and un- limited cuts also came in for their share of attention. But, the most pressing factor, the greatest bone of contention in the minds of a large part of the student body-re- ligion in the chapel program-was by-passed neatly because of a multi- tude of reasons (fear, disinterest, apathy among them). Religion Personal Religion, as we see it, is a pe:- sonal thing. Fortunately, it IS nothing that can be foisted off on a defenseless student group by fanatics, reformers, and pseudo- progressive educators. This is true, simply because they will sooner or later refuse to accept it. It is un- fortunat-e, however, that the class which contains the ten thousandth graduate of Union College does not have the necessary moral strength to record their displeasure with the status quo. Put up or shut up. What would happen to the col- lege if a substantial group of un- dergraduates refuse to take part in any program which included forced attendance at religious serv- ices? It is our opinion that there would be a shake-up that would re- sound to the ends of Union's educa- tion world. A strike is nothing new. That much is certain! Strikes in college are not frequent -but they are not unknown. n reflects directly on the gradu- ates that no concrete action has been taken. It reflects directly on the alumni body of the college in that the Senior class may be termed representative of trends- trends which they now leave Union to establish. It reflects on a sys- tem which, in itself, is unfair. The system is unfair because, while a student need not attend re- ligious services to obtain the re- quired forty credits, any student who is a conscientious member of a religious faith which prohibits such attem!ance, is discriminated against. How? There are a limit- ed number of points available. The exemplary student has less points obtainable than had his fellow who is not so restricted. A price is being placed on particular re- ligious beliefs. To confuse further the situation, both the Memorial Chapel and the ground on which it stands were consecrated by Dr. Richmond, an ordained Presby- terian minister, when the chapel was dedicated. This precludes of- ficial sanction of attendance for its members by the Catholic Church, the Protestant Episcopal Church, and both the Orthodox and Re- formed Jewish churches. Chapel System The Chapel program, as stated by the authorities is set up to spread culture and morale in the student body. That ·this has failed is obvious to anyone who has watched the daily attendance dwindle steadily as the end of term came. Naturally, by the tenth or eleventh week the average student had gained his forty points-he didn't feel in need of any more culture. In addition, the Chaplain has made the mistake of admitting that he cannot assemble an audi- ence for his religious programs without the two-point bribe. It is well enough to force a man to at- tend lectures on mundane mat- ters, but religion is such a personal affair that it seems a shame that it should be desecrated by the use of a bonus system. But let George do it, fellows. We don't have to worry about Chapel any more. We didn't like it as undergraduates, but let's get out with clean hands. Let the next guy worry about it. WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairin9 and EnCJraving Pens and the Finest Gifts Corner State and Center Sfs. II FRID 1 foun' will< The g-rou Beta grea· the l The chapt' ing be until was f• six ye Club, had e numb, to joiJ Theta mid's grantc alive. of 19! active of W• sided house are a the cc the c< The eludes whom for tl Hotel They to the for a Rev. will c Memo of fr from and c public Tho presid man and l presid cerem Direc1 specia with cancel vetera l Dr. Corne princi banqu more Gibs01 side. and h will ir promi L. G. Alvin David and V As i lege De Its w A ,- 1 c Cc

FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1947 3 Theta Delta Chi to Celebrate lOOth Anniversary To Place Memorial Plaque,<+>- Endow Library Collection Theta Delta Chi, youngest om the six social fraternities fo_unded at U:nion and ~he eleventh oldest in the country, will celebrat~ Its centenmal June 27-30, here on Lake George. The frater~ut~ w_as established oa October 31, 184 7 by a group of SIX JUmors, four of whom were members 0f Phi Beta Kappa ... At that time Union was enjoying a period of great prosperity and was one of the largest institutions in the United States. Goveming Body The Alpha Charge, as the Union chapter is called, was the govern- ing body of the naUonal fraternity until after the Civil War when it was forced into dormancy for fifty- six years. In 1923 the old Pyramid Club, a fameus local society which had existed on the campus for a. number ef years, expressed a desire· to join a nationa-l fraternity to the Theta Delt grand lodge. The Pyra- mid's application for a charter was· granted and the Alpha was again alive. This occurred in February of 1923 and the cha·rge has been active ever since. Until the advent of World War II the chapter re- sided at 103 Seward Place but that house has since been sold and they are at present raising funds for the construction of a new house on the campus. Now Numbe1•s 13,000 The national fraternity now in- cludes over 13,000 members of whom more than 600 will convene for the three day celebration at Hotel Sagamore, Lake George. They will travel by motor caravan to the campus on Sunday, June 29, for a commemoration service. The Rev. Ralph Hindman of Buffalo will deliver the main address in Memorial Chapel to the assemblage of fraternity brothers, delegates from other national fraternities and collegiate representatives. The public will be invited to attend. Thomas E. Waters, national president of the fraternity, Nor- man Hackett, graduate secretary, and Dr. Carter Davidson, Union president, will aso take part in the ceremonies. Dr. Tidmarsh, Union's Director of Music, will direct a special chorus of 25 male voices with J. Harold Peterson, former concert star and purple heart war veteran, as soloist. Day, Johnston to Spealt Dr. Edmund E. Day, president of Cornell, and Eric Johnston will be principal speakers at the formal banquet to be held at the Saga- more the next day. Harvey Dow Gibson of New York City will pre- side. Other prominent speakers and honor guests at the convention will include Hiram Todd, Union '97, prominent New York attorney, L. G. Balfour of Attleboro, Mass .. Alvin Duerr of New York City, David Embury of New York City and William F. Love of Rochester. As its centennial gift to the col- lege of its founders, the Theta Delts will endow a rare book col- For Car Trollbles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 601 Union Street AUTO SERVICE LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET 0------~ -------- lection for the coi'lege li·brary and participate with five other fra- ternities founded at Union in re- building Blue Gate, as well as placing a plaque commemorating its founders on North College, his- toric site of their founding ·in 1847. Those responsible for the found- ing of Theta Delta Chi, all mem- bers of Union's Class of 1849, were William G. Akin, Abel Beach, Theo- dore Brown, Judge Andrew H. Green, Dr. WH!iam Hyslop and Samuel F. Wile. ---0•--- Freshman Orientation <Continued from Page 1) year. The siudent advisor and the facult;{ advisor for each freshman will operate together to give them a full view of both curricular and extra-curricular work at Union. The Orientation program will be- gin on September 16, with the re- turn of the campers from Lake George. It will open with talks by President Davidson and Dr. Ligon and a description of the work done by the Sophomore Discipline Com- mittee. Huntley to Speah: On Wednesday, September 17, Dean Huntley will make a short E•pEech following which the Advis- ory system will be fully explained to the freshmen. Thursday and Friday will see talks by Charlie Waldron, formet· Secretary of the Grad,uate Council; Burges. Johnson, Professor Emet·itus of English; and t•epresentatives of all the stu- der. t activities. On Saturday, September 20. all forms of student government as it functions at Union will be taken up as well as the social life available in Schenectady. On Sunday there will be a special Chapel service and an All-College party in Jackson's Garden. Dances Planned Two Union-Skidmore dances have been scheduled, one here and one in the north country. Plans are be- ing drawn up for informal dances in the Gym after each football game next fall, to be culminated with the formal Gridiron Ball on Friday, November 14. Requests have been sent to all members of next year's Senior and Junior Classes to participate in the program and selections will be made from among those answering in the affirmative. ---0--- Alumni Notes All alumr.i are urged to register, secure tickets, and late information at Headquarters in the Hotel Van Curler or in the General Engineer- ing Building. Headquarter·s will be open until 10 p. m. tocay and from 8:30 til noon Saturday. The Council Office will keep a file of those who register. For information, call 3-4666 from 8:30-5 on Friday; 8:30-3 p. m. on Satur- day; at other hours, call 3-2355. The Food's Good at JAMES• RESTAURANT Fountain and Booth Service 426 STATE ST. Near Proctor's COLONIAL ·ICE CREAM CO. fee Cream at Its Best 134 Mohawk Avenue Phone 6-3443 Scotia Varsity-Alumni Lacrosse Tomorrow Tomorrow at 11:30 A.M., the Union Lacrosse team wHl meet a star studded Alumni aggrega- tion on Library Field. The series, instituted in 1933, has been quite evenly played to date with the varsity holding a four game to three edge. Appearing for the Alumni will be Jim Forbes, '31, Joe Paul, ' , Warren Rixon, '42, Phil Dewey, '27, Fred Wyatt, '33, Ronnie Ostrander, '40, Ed Ward, '40, Dick Balch, ' , Carl Klarman, '44, and Doug Swick, '32. President Davidson Issues Welcome To Incoming Freshman Class of '51 GREETINGS TO THE CLASS OF 1951! The Freshman class entering in the fall of 1947 is jndeed a pt•ivi:leged group. You are 288 strong, because we are hoping to bring the enrollment of the college back uN.der 1000 by the fall of 1950, when last fall's rec- ord freshman class will be graduated. You are chosen from a group of more than a thousand qualified appli- ca:nts, all of them men who wanted to come to Union and who presented high school records and College Board examinations which in an ordinary pre-1947 year would have guamnteed their admission. But we had to choose -and we picked the men who seen1ed to us to give highest promise fot· the future, not merely in scholastic ability, but also in active participation in the extra-cur- ricular life of the student body, and in qualities of per- sonality, leadership, and character. The next four years are going to test whether our selective judgment is good ot· bad. Those of us who served on the Admissions Committee believe that the class of 1951 has the best potentialities in our history as a college-don't let us down. Carter Davidson, President. Frosh Camp Plans Laid for Next Fall by Ketz, Lewis The Ninth Annual Freshman~ - -------- Camp will open at Pilot Knob, Director· Lewis is highly pleased Lake George on Friday, September over the response shown among the 12 and will continue through Tues- freshmen and among the upper- day, September 16, it was an- classmen who are· being asked to nounced this week by Student Di- 1 go along as Councillors. The staff rector Alfred Lewis. is still in the process of being se- Varied Facilities Freshman Camp, revived last year after a three year break due to the war, is an informal introduc- tion to Union College for the in- coming Freshmen. At this camp the neophyte me,ets some of the members of the faculty and the leaders of the various student ac- tivities as well as most of the men with whom he will go through his four years of C·Ollege. The camp it- self is well equipped for swimming, hiking, and athletic games and is situated in the center of one of the most beautiful and historic parts of the state. Enrollment is limited to 140 men due to the size of the camp. Buses will leave the college at 9:00 a. m. on Friday and return in time for lunch on Tuesday. Fresh- man re·gistration begins on Wed- nesdar, September 17. lected. Wilford Ketz will be Fac- ulty Camp Director as in the past. He will be assisted by many mem- bers of the faculty. Among the activities planned for the camp at·e Divisional Meetings unde:· dit·ection of professo1·s in various divisions; campfire discus- sions on \What the first year of cone, e can mean to you\ and \Fra- ternities and Social Life at Union\; an Amateur Night and a hike up Buck Mounta-in. The camp was originally institu- ted by the Christian Ass·cciation in 1936 as an aid to freshman or- ientation. It has served its pur- pose well by acquainting the fresh- men with their classmates and giving them an insight into the campus activities. A series of in- formal talks are given by various college figures concerning the op- portunities that await the new- comer to the campus. IN ALBANY Make the Hotel Ten Eyck your headquarters in Albany. Enjoy the most delicious food in the Capital District in the Empire Room and the Rose Lounge. Gov. Dewey Joint Guest of _Honor atAlumni Luncheon In a last minHte announcement this morning it was made known that Governor Thomas E. Dewey would be joinst guest of honor with Govemor Warren of California at tomorrow's 1 uncheon. Both men will address the gathering briefly. Governor WmTeH will spend tonight in Albany as guest of the New York State Chief Executive and they wiH come to Schenectady together. WaiTen and Dewey have often 0--------------- been linked together by politicai prophets as a future presidential election ticket. 10,000 Graduate It was also anilourtcEtd that Union's lO,OOOthe graduate is amor.g the g1·aduating class this year. The Dean',; Office has sa.id that they will not announce the na.me be- forehand but when President Da\ vidson presents the degree he wili make it known to the audience. In 152 years of grad.uations, this places the average class since 1795 at 65.78 member::>. Notes on Parade Scotia Navy Supply Depot has announced that a Marine Guard detachment will be present at the head of the line when Union's al• umni begin their pamde tomorrow. Another last minute story on the parade is that a bagpipe band from this area will march in the annual alumni parade. Their skirl- ing Scottish march music will be competing with t·egulation march music played by a local band. StimmerW ork Summarized Union College will open its sum- mer session, June 16-August 8, to area men attending other colleges in order that they may continue full or part time study while sp-end- ing the sumer months at home. Many students are finding it ad- vantageous to study during the summer to adjust disrupted sched- ules. Students may reside in the col- lege dormitories or commute. Special Courses Several special one semester courses will be offered. Also cer- tain first semester courses will be offered in the following fields: Literature, History, Chemistry, Languages, Eoconomics. Physics, Psychology, Education, Labor and· Public Speaking. Second semester courses will be offered in the following fields: Modern Languages, Chemistry, Mathematics, Economics, English, Psychology, Government, Biology, History and Geology. All courses carry three or four semester hours of credit. A maxi• mum of three courses may be taken by each student. Classes meet daily Monday through Friday for one hour each day. Laboratories will be given with all sciences. A roster of the individual courses to be given is now available at the Dean's office. Prospective students should submit a list of the courses they desire to take and a state- ment of good standing from the dean of the college they are now attending. NOTT Restau.-ant & Bar • RIGHT OUTSIDE GREEN GATE • Pizza after • Win~s, Liquors, and Beer 7 FERRo·s RESTAURANT Spaghetti and Meat Balls Our Specialty 1115 BARRETT STREET Odd Diamond Note Sifting through the record book at the wee hours of the morning our \fact and figures\ editor turn- ed up the fact that when Union plays R.P.I. tomorrow afternoon they will be striving to hold a rec- ord that stretches for over two years. Not since May 9; 1945, have the Garnet been defeated on the Alexander Field diamond. This is the best post-wa·r record set by any Union team so far. ----0•--- Old Blue Gate To be Rebuilt By $6, 000 Gift Old Blue Gate will be replaced again. Victim of age and numerous motorists, the gate has been de- molished and rebuilt many times since it was first erected in 1813 when Union moved to its present site. The gate derives its name from the original gate of wooden pickets painted blue. As can be imagined, a wooden gate didn't last very long at the principal entrance to the college. Just prior to World Wax· I the wooden structure was re- placed by a wrought iron gate, supported on granite posts. Gate Abused A third of a century and the ad- vent of mass automobilization for Union students have gradually worn the old gate down. An un- identified motorist took out the main portion of the gate in 1942 and a chain was hung between the posts. In time the chain was car- ried away, and then one of the posts was clobbered last year. About that time it was decided something should be done. Six social fraternities founded at Union, including the three oldest in the nation, met and formed a com- mittee, headed by Hiram C. Todd, '97. Recently this committee an- nounced the joint gift of $6,000 to the college to restore the historic old entranceway. The new gate designed by Lawrence Grant Whit~ of New York City, will include steel gates mounted on granite pylons flanking the southern en- trance to Terrace Lane. The new gate, widened to accommodate in- creased campus traffic, will be com- pleted by late summer. In Schenectady lfs for SPORT TOGS -:=- =====::dl

4 FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1947 I Union 1- Publica_ti_on_s_\ l(etz Explains Activities In terest in the extra-curricular activity program has shown a steady gain during· the past year. In the fkst semester, 484 stu- dents participated in some phase of the program. During the sec- ond semester the number ha\' dsen to .577. \,_s_tu_d_ent Government \ Cnion College sponsers £our undergraduate public_ations, the Concordiensis, a weekly newspaper; the Idol, u hterm·y mauazine the Garnet. the yearbook; and the Freshman Re- cord a y'earl.Jook for the freshman class. The publications aPe ~upported l.Jy stHdent activities tax money, advertising and subsct·iptions. PUBLICATION BOARD The Publications Board is com- posed of the editor and the bm•i- ness managet· of each publication. They meet wi-th the Coordinator of Studen•t Activities and the Dean to decide on !'>Olicy and actions. The Dea.n and the Coordina•tor ha:ve no vote but are there to ad- vise and inform the rpst of the gmup. The Board has taken o:r publication of a college blotter m ord·er to make money to buy equip- ment. CONCORDIENSlS FLYING The Flying Club, inactive during the winter due to adverse weathet• conditions. came to rife again in April. Steve Ismel was eelcted Pt·esident with AI Wohlers in th<oJ secretarial post. The main objeC'- tiv<:> of the club is to bring together those interesced in flying and to enablt> them to aC't as a group in purchasing \block flight time,\ at low~r than prevailing rates. Free flight instmction is being furnished to non-licensed members. At the present time 25 organizations are included within the program. This number includes two newcomers, the Phrsics Club and the Photography Club. Plans are now underway for a further increa»e through the formation of a Spanish Club and a Pre- medical Club early i·n the .fall. The Student Council has joined with the Board of Managers of Student Activities in >letting up a committee which looks forward to the stimulation of interest in extra-curricular worlt within the entering freshman class next fall. Part of this program wiJ.I be administered through a group of student advisors who wHI have the responsibility of bri·nging each f.reshman into direct contact with the organization c0vering his particular interest. The upper- classmen within the student body have enthusiastically signi.fied thPir intention to support this advisory group. It is to be hoped that student interest will continue the same rate of increase next fall which has been $hown throug·h the past semester in order that at least half of the College will participate in some phasP of this type of activi-ty. WILFORD H. KETZ, Coo·rdinator of Student Activities At Union it is the policy of the Administration to allow the students as much self government as possible. Towa1·ds this end a bHreaucracy has been instituted to attend to all matte1:s arising among the students. Guided, but not con- troHect, by the Administration, the men of Union are working towards a more beneficial and Nlore enjoyable college life. BOARD OF MANAGERS The first post-war constitution of this organization was drawn up last fall under the leadership of Jack Tway. Soon after, a persona-l poll was held in the rooms of the dorJ.Ps, duri-ng which students were asked their optntons concerning Student Activities. Stimulation of interest in Student Activities was furth·ered by the in- troduction of assemblies into the Chapel hour sponsored by the in- STUDENT COUNCIL The student body has been well governed during the .past school year by the members of the Stu- dent Counci·l. During th1s .time the council strove to improve the sadly sagging morale of the student body, and to i·ncrease the representation of all groups on campus. The counci-l also conducted the Campu~ Chest drive which unified the dona. tions of the student body for vari- out worthy causes. ~~~~::~::::::::::~v_::~-~~~~~~-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~d~iv~i~d~u~al __ a_c_t_iv_i_t_ie_s_. ______________ _ As you can see, the Concordy is still going strong with its seent.teth anniversary coming up next fa·ll. The editorial staff is a small well knit group but newcomers showing promise will be given trials. It was haped that it would be pos- sible to return to a policy of two issues a week as in the past but high costs of paper and· labor pre- vented it. ~-------------------------------------------------·------------------------------------------------. I Clubs, Societies Cite Year's Accomplishments j It is hoped that the increased in- terest shown in the latest council elections will foreshadow further interest next year oy the members of the student body. The council has already made a number of im- provements on the campus, and wiN be able to operate even more efficiently with the full cooperation of the entire student body. IDOL The new Idol, under direction of a relatively inexperienced staff, supported by a small but intet_-est~ ed group of contributors. ·revtveo' the college magazine on a \Student magazine written by student,;\· basis during this past year. The new editors ft>lt that the <\ol- lege magazine should hP thP outlPt for all creative and critiC'al wOI'k which the students could managt> to turn out. In their experimental stages, they cast about for a format, which was fairly well set by the time the May issue ap- peared. The new staff has received the benefit of experience gained tl1is year and is already planning the first issue for the fall. A cam- paign is currently being conducted to build up the outside circulation of the magazine. GARNET In planning for next year, The Garnet staff has had to allow for the largest book in its long history. This is necessary because of the extraordinary size of the graduat- ing class as well as the re-emphasis of extra-curricular activities ex- pected for next year. The entire layout of the book will be changed, with a resulting increase in the amount of work required for a good issue. This year's Garnet, the first peacetime issue since 1941, came out this week. It is a snappy book, gold with blue tones. and ig a credit to the college. FRESHMAN RECORD The Freshman Record is a rela- tiely new book at Union. It is pub- lished each fall soon after the new class has entered and contains pictures of the entire group. Be- side each freshman's picture is his actiities record in secondary school, his home town, his major at Union and other infot·mation. During the war the Record was published by the Administration but with the retum of capable men to the campus it has been placed in the hands of the under- graduates again. Editor-in-Chief for next year will be Jim Baar. A. S.C. E. The members of the A.S.C.E. interspersed their lectures and movies here at the college with field trips to various points of in- terest in the area. In March the club held a joint meeting with the A.I.E.E. to hear a talk on atomic power delivered by Mr. Win~e, vice-president of General Electnc, and chairman of the Atomic En .. ergy ·Control Board. Michael J. Setne is president of the scoiety, and Professor W. C. Taylor is the faculty advisor. The society plans to continue its program of lectures and field trips next year. SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS ;----------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------, In addition the Flying Club has sponsored a program of fifteen minute orientation rides. The club participated in the meet held at Middlebury in May. They expect to meet again in the faH and con- tinue to operate throughout the school year with an expanded pro· gram of flights and meets. MOUNTEBANKS Starting an~w after a three and a half year inten·uption thE' CV!oun- tcbank!' pns<'nted two plays. O'Neil'>< \Th<' Long Voyage Home\ and Sheridan's \The Rivals\. Han- dicapped by inexperience but help- ed by theater improvements, the season was fairly successful. Next year they hope to present. tht·ee productions as wen as a short play for the Russell Sage Drama F~stival in the fall. Most of this year's key mt>n will still be here so anticipations are high. I. R. C. The International Relations Club has endeavored in the past year to stimulate interest in and furnish knowledg-e concerning internation- al problems which confront the world today. In addition to this the club affords an opportunity to take part in programs. express themselves in many ways, and to experience again in club planning and administration. Next vear the I.R.C. plans to start a· speaker's bureau from which ><peakers will go to address public gatherings on topical sub- jects. They also plan to attend several conferences in the area as well as play host to a conference at Union. In the spring, the club will sponsor jointly with the Sche- nectady County League of Women Voters and the Fourth Annual In- ternational Affairs Conference for high school students. A. I. E. E. The Student Branch of the A.I.E.E. has been formed in order· that those men interested in the field of Electrical Engineering might avail themselves of the op- portunity to meet with and listen to prominent engineers engaged in the various fields of the profession. During the past year, members of the A.LE.E. met many promi- nent men in the profession and made several trips to various ope- rating power stations, manufactur- ing plants and labora.tories in the East. It is hoped that the futu!'e will provide an even more extensive program than that enjoyed by the past year's membership. All men interested are cordially invited to attend our meetings. No Finer Place to Eat Try Us On Your Next Date * PELOP'S 438 STATE ST. (Near Proctor's) GLEE CLUB I with girls from Skidmore; presen- . , th Gl Club tation of films dealing with educa- Thts year sav; . e ee 1 tion in other countries.· represents- PHILOMATHEANS Activities got under way during the second term, and discussions were held with R. P. I., Middle- bUlT, .A:lbany State Teacher's Col- lege, and St. Rose. The Phi.Jo- matheans a-lso sent a delegation to the New York State Student De- bate Conference which convened in Albany the week-end of May 24. swing back into htgh. gear once tion at the State Teachers Discus- ag_ain aft~r. a long perwd of :_ur- sian of Foreign Groups; meeting tat-led acbv1ty. The annual Chrlst- with groups from other colleges mas Festival was. a huge success Schenectady and other cities· and with the Chapel ~lied to overfi_ow- correspondence with people i~ the ing for the evemng chapel smg. United States and other nations. In March the club traveled to Elmira for a joint concert with tl1P gi·rls' college there. Later they went to the New York area fo1 the big tout· of the season which featured four concerts for Alumni groups. In Apri-l single concerts were given in Amstet'dam, Hoosic Falls, and Schenectady, with a four-day trip to upper New York State completing the first post-war season of the Glee Club. The Choir, which is a group synonymous with the Glee Club, sang each Sunday for the broadcast of the Union College Chapel service. Next year the Glee Club plans an even more extensive series with several joint con'certs with women's colleges in this area. Dr. Tidmarsh, tht> club's director. expects a larger turnout of men to help the Glee Club on to an even more success- ful season than they enjoyed this year. UCCA The Christian Association has been reorganized this year after lying almost dormant for the war years. The association has been active in bringing speakers to the campus who have spoken on topics of interest to the entire student body. Some members of the group are working with the Boys' Group of the Schenectady Children's Home, assisting in the direction and planning of physical and social activity. Next year the Christian Associ- ation will carry on this year's good work and will branch out with the following groups: Bible Study Group, Chapel Program Commitee, Informal Discussion Group, Skep- tics Group, Board of Student Coun- sellors, Cosmopolitan Club, Deputa.. tion Teams and a Social Commit- tee. COSMOPOLITAN To foster closer relation between foreign and American students, the Cosmopolitan Club was formed during the past term. The Club, consisting of men from both groups, now has 15 members rep- resenting 11 countries: Brazil, Kenya, Poland, Norway, India, Chile, Haiti, Iraq, France, Nica- ragua and the United States. Plans for next :year, a dance Jacob's Pharmacy Corner Nett & Carrie Fountain Service Drugs- Tobacco Pipe Headquarters I. J. LINSEY '22, Prop. BRIDGE CLUB The Bridgt> Club has bee,n quite active this year, cornpPting in sev- t>ral toUJ·nam<>nts it,cluding the Na- tional Intet·collegiate, playing the faculty four times and instituting an in~·truction course ·for beginners and advanced members. They have outlined an ambitious program for next year which in- cludes com.petitions with several neighboring colleges as well a:s con- tinued student-faculty matches. The instruction program will be expand• ed to provide an adequate help to any ar d all who are interested. OUTING CLUB The Outing Club this year made several trips with neighboring col- leges and local outing clubs, in- cluding Vassar, Skidmore, Sche- nectady Wintersports Club and others. They sponsored a series of movies on skiing in Old Chapel during the winter. Next year the Club hopes to con- tinue and expand the present prac- tice of joint camping trips with other colleges. A program is being drawn up at present to increase f.acilities and safety of their cabin in North Creek. CHEMISTRY CLUB The Chemistry Club, under the leadet·ship of President Arthur C. Glamm and Howard W. Bishop, made several field trips this year to the Imperial Color and Dyes Co., the General Electric Co. Research Laboratories and the Imperial Papet· and Color Corp. The mem- bers of the club who are Seniors present talks on their respective research problems, and general discussions on chemical topics of current interest are held periodic- ally. Next year the club plans to hold several more inspection trips, and to engag·e m01·e speakers. The itinerat·y for next year in- cludes rounc' table conferences with various schools, to be held here at Union, and as guests of the re- spective colleges. DELPHIC SOCIETY Responsible for most of the spirit about Union Col·lege during the past yeat· has been the Delphia Society, the honorary membership of which includes those men of the campus whose interest eventual.Jy becomes reality, Originally founded to serve th€ college community, and to foster and maintain the traditions of the college, this society has set as its objective a continuation of original' polky, and a deveolpment of the innovation already mstituted. BAND The College Band this year played at all home football games and the Hamilton game in Clinton. It gave one concert on Alumni Weekend last fall. The band's li- brary was increased and all the instruments were repaired. How- ever, due to lack of participation by students and flagging interest, the band stopped operation this spring. Under the able direction of Ghar- lie Male and Pat McGivern, Stu\ dent Manager, the band has high hopes of reot·ganizing next fall. PRE-LAW SOCIETY The Society, one of the few of its kind in the country, made its appearance on campus for the first time last fall. After a rather slow beginning, the Society under the sponsorship of Dr. Doty succeeded in attacting many prominent law- yers to the meetings as sp€akers. To insure speedy organization next year, the incoming panel has aranged for a steering committee to contact speakers for the planned increased number of meetings and to set-up a schedule for court visits. A real' fun-maker! Capitol's Luxury Portable Phonograph is completely different ... because it plays ANYWHERE electronitally. That means rich, really .. • • • • .. • .. • • •• sm,ooth tones, jllSt like you get from your big radio. Plays on electric current (plug in) or on its own battery (wind up)-both ways thi'Oitg!J the lubes/ Swell for the beach ... for weekends ~way .. _ for the mountains. AT ANY CAPITOL DE'ALER. I. F. C. Very much at the helm of col- lege activities during the past school year has been the Interfra- ternity Council. As a part of their post-war agenda, the members worked on a re-stabilization of frat- ernity rules and relations on cam- puB. As a result, rules for rushing and pledging wet·e established, as well as a policy for the tt·eatment of fraternity parties and the rules concerned therewith. In conjunction with the college, the council sponsored the Intet•- fraternity Ball, held last November. For the coming year, they have agr·eed to organize the Gridiron Ball, to be held November 14. STUDENT TAX One of the biggest headaches of the school year, that of determin- ing the allotments to be made to the various activities about school from the Student Activities fund, was shouldered last September by the Student Tax Committee. Under. Roger Van Tassel, the committee was primarily occupied with an analysis of all Student Activity budgets found on campus. Other considerations have includ- ed the building of a new arch for the Mountebanks, which project has been completed, and a surplus fund for the use of the committee. UCRS The Radio Society exists for the entertainment and enjoyment of its listeners, and for the discipline, training and enjoyment of its member·s. During the course of the year, plans were drawn up for the con- struction of new broadcasting studios in Washburn Hall. Th€ Call Letters of the station have been changed to W. R. U. C. and reception has been improved with the stringing of new lines to all campus buildings. A seminar was held to train announcel;'s Plans for next year call for the formal dedication of the new studios in the Fall; the resumption of a regular broadcasting hours by the \Ham\ station, W2GSB; the foundation of a dramatic \Work- shop\ and the further training of announcers and t·echnicians to pro- vide better programs and practical radio experience MILK VItamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE 6·2351 GUERRA'S PHARMACY Fountain Prescriptions Sundries Phone 4-5676 SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY STREET 114 STATE Near FERRY 600 Union St. Cor. Barrett St. FRI R 0 ath goo of 1 can lett the The was Law: crow Alex as tl Two as t en err Th stice net, gamE mont B up tl ister~ cess forts their trour Siege Enst the t kicki tot·y when Willi dies Hom' Hoba great Ensti air t game was: dlebu rival Bil show two Poly, victir Midd Hill: Gil l sister their Sprin Co bel letter Co< bask~ whicl recor high swarr the :r dispil mout A tot half Garn. next court went ning I

f FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1947 Past: Year Sees Revival Of F;ull Sports Schedule Septenjlber, 194'6, saw Union launched on its first normal athletic se~son in five years. Prospects were bl'ight for a g~od year ~n the major sports after tile t:omparative drought of the war years. Football Coach i\lel Hein's first call for candidates brought fotth a wealth of .material with manv lettermen of previous vears comhJ.O\ back to seek a berth ort the 1946 team. · \' Football Sl\ason The opening game of the '46 senson was on September 28 against St. Lawrence, at home. The eager crowd which filled the stands at Alexander Field was disappointed as the outplayed Larries won 14-0. Two weak moments spelled defeat as the Unicm men oulscered the enemy in first downs 14-4. The lass of star halfback Hal En- stice for away games hurt the Gar- net, and they lost their next two games to Rochester-114-30) and Ver- mont !0-32). ~-------------- Hamilton 42-50 and St. Lawrence 32-36. In a pair of post vacation tilts with Brooklyn Poly our forces split, losing the fir:;t 49-46 and win- ning the second 59-58. A weak Middlebury team was blasted 76-46 as Pemrick and Capt. O'Neill sank fi·fteen points apiece. Despite '!. good first half, the Garnet lost to a strong R.P.l. squad 46-76 at thP Troy Armory. A slow game at Hobart went to Union 38-33. A stmng fight by a resurging Union team failed to turn the game, and Rochester won the next 64-57. Stevens wa:; taken over 72-45 in an easy game. The c!irnA.X of the sea- son came in the home game with R.P.I. at the Schenectady Armory .. This game sent the Union cheering section into a frenzy as their boys roared back in the last half to come within two points of a star- tling upset. The strain must have Heinus Successor: JOHN MC LA:UGHRY-Head Football Coach 5 RPI to Oppose Garnet In Final Diamond Tilt The Garnet baseball team finishes up a very successful : season tomol'l'ow on Alexander Field against RPI. t.:nion has \\'On eight out of its nine games to establish one of its best seasons in many years. The single loss of the season was to Rochester on i\lay 3 at Rochester·. only the defense men gaining much experience. Many of the more veteran players showed up britliantly but the freshmen laden team was not able to withstand the attacks of more seasoned op· ponents. Winning from Hamilton, Sampson and Williams while losing to Hobart, Colgate, Lehigh, Syra- cuse, R.P.I., Manhasset and Stevens the squad came out on the short end of 7·4 total. Coach Wyatt is Pnthused about next year's chances he., a use of the many members of this year's team returnin_g. Track Coach Ketz's trackmen pulled through in their last meet to bring their season total to three wins as against two losses. Paced by record breaking Ken Whalen on the shotput, Union trounc·ed Hamil- ton 88-43 at Clinton but not even Whalen could stop the Trinity team from defeating Union on Alexander Field to the tune of Enstice to Pitch Hal Enstice is scheduled to pitch against the Engineers in the final game tomonow. He started off the season in the field hut was switched to the mound by Coach Art Law- rence about midseason due to the lark of pitchers on the squad. The starting lineup will be the same as that in the previous games, The team was led at the plate by \Mule\ Haas with a batting aver- age well above .500. He also has received five offers to play from major leag-ue ball clubs. The team next year will have good prospects fm all t·egular:; will be back except Haas. Season R!'capped The :;eason opened on April 25 at Syracuse. The Garnet went into an early lead but had been over- taken by Syracu:;e when the game was called because of ra·in. The foJ.lowing day the team traveled to Hamilton and won a 7-2 decision. Big Ken Whalen's passes set up the two score:; which were re6- istered in the Rochester game. Suc- cess finally crowned Mel· Rein's ef- forts as the Union men lived up to their pre-season press notices and trounced R.P.I. <27-0}. Runs by Siegel, Whalen and Enstice and an Enstice-Siegel aerial accounted for the touchdowns with Bob Bartlett kicking- the extra points. The vic- tory string went to three straight when Hobart was beaten <19-7) and Williams was taken over the hur- · dies before a capacity crowd at Homecoming Weekend, 14-0. The· Hobart game was the scene of the greatest plays of the season, as Enstice passed sixty yards in the air to Siegel. In the final two games of the season the Garnet was again jinxed as it lost to Mid- dlebury < 13-181 and traditional rival Hamilton <6-7). Union's Coaching Staff During the ·Year '46-'4 7 The first home game was with Middlebury and was taken by Un- ion 10-4 to inc1·ease its tht·ee year string of victories without a defeat on the home field. The. team then tmveled to Hobart only to be rained out. The following day it lost to Rochester 5-3. The Garnet put on a ninth inning threat that was stopped short with the bases loaded after three runs had scored. Cross Country Bill Ketz's cross country team showed a record of three wins and two losses. Vermont, Brooklyn Poly, and Williams were the Union victims with the strong R.P.I. and Middlebury squads nosing out the Hill and Dalers. Newt .Culver and Gil Hicks showed the most con- sistent form as they stretched out their legs in preparation for the Spring track season. Brightman, Co ben and Steigert were the other· lettermen on the harrier squad. Basketball Top row, usual order: Fred \Vyatt, Varsity lacrosse coach; Ray Mullane, Varsity swimming coach; Dick Balch, assistant football and lac•·osse coach; Mel Hein, retiring football coach; Bill Ketz, Va1·sity T•·a<'k and <'ross ('Ountry coach; White:'\· Bot-hm, retiring basketball ('Oaeh. Bottom row, same order: Hal Wittner, director of Athleti~s; Art Lawrt-nrt>, baseball and assistant football <'Oat'h; Pete Nistad, basketball and t<>nnis coach. The rest of the season was a string of victot·ies for Union in none of which was it ever serious- ly threatened. Games wer-e won from Ithaca 8-4, Hamilton 8-5·, Rochester 4-1, RPI 17-5, Williams 3-1, and Colgate 3-0. ----- feating the Garnet 67-59 at Troy. In the last meet of the year Union downed Ithaca College by a wallop- ing 82'\·42''\· Golf Union's revived golf team, Coach Whitey Boehm started the basketball season with a squad which showed promise of a goo&' record. In the opening game a high powered Colgate team swamped underdog Union, 74-50. In the next two games Union played dispirited ball and lost to Dart- mouth 32-42 and to Williams 26-35. A total of six points in the second half of the game scored by the Garnet spelled out defeat. The· next three games on the home court at the Schenectady Armory went to Union in their longest win- ning streak as Hobart bowed 38-50, Minor Sports, Golf, Tennis, Swimming, Skiing, Hockey, Active coached by Bob Cox, pre-war links mentor, struggled through an eight match season with a record of only two wins against six losses. Play- ing a tough schedule for a new team they lost to R.P.I., Middle- bury, Champlain, Mohawk, and St. Lawrence while defeating Albany in both ends of a home and home ARROW ARAZEPHYR ENSEMBLJ: been too much for the Garnet since they lost the next two starts to Hamilton <67-71) and Trinity <52-63). The final game of th-e year, with Wagner, went to our forces 54-48. The score at the end of the schedule stood at ei[\'ht wins and nine losses with all but one of the losses on the away courts. Pem- rick, O'Neill, Schultz and Schwartz stood out for Union with Markes 1-lou to please a GRAND guy on june 15! ;whether you are a model son or a. black sheep to your Dad, the chances are you'll never repay what you owe him. But a thoughtful gift that will thrill any Dad on his day, June 15, is one of those air-conditio!,led, feather-weight Ara· :r:ephyr sets consisting of a shirt, with matching tie and handker• ~ief. Sports shirts are available in the same cool material. The shirts have the famous Arrow collar and are Sanforized (fabric shrinkage less than 1%) and they come in white and several colors. and Roberts making life miserable even begin to work out until mid- for members of opposing teams season due to the lack of a coach. Ski Team Under the tutelage of the new The Union College Ski Team car- sv.imming coach, Ray Mullane, the ried out an extensive season of. tankmen were able to salvage wins activity and took part in the St. against Hamilton and the Troy· Lawrence winter carnival, the Skid-. Y.M.C.A. in a six meet season. Mul- more ca 1 ·nival, the Intercollegiate· lane will have the entire team meet at Turin and a dual meet· from this year back again next with R.P.I. Our score taken in- year, with a large number of prom- dividually against other schools ising freshmen to help carry the shows six victories and five de- Gamet colors. Outstanding mer- feats: Rochester, Hamilton, Hobart, men for Union were Capt. Hoge- and R.P.I. were among the teams boom Courter, Kuniholm and which we outscored in the various diver~ Johnson and Albright. meets. Two Norwegian students,. Hockey Arne Fretheim and Erik Brun, A new hockey rink was set up were the outstanding performers· on Graduate Council Field and for the Garnet with Dick Jesser, several practices were held on the Roger Graham and George Gould little ice that was available but g1vmg valuable support. Fret- Coach Art Lawrence was unable to 'heim was recently elected captain get his charges prepared for a of the 1947-48 team. game, due to the poor weather con- Swimming ditions. Hampered by a late start, the Union Swimming Team had what Lacrosse might appear to be a dismal sea- The Lacrosse team this year son. B:owever, the boys did not worked hard but profited little, ARE YOU A FILCHER ( If you have niched your Dad's Arrow shirts and ties for years, here's a chance to make it up to him on Father's Day, June 15. Buy him a cool Ara- zephyr ensemble consist- ing of lightweight shirt, accompanied by a sum- mery tie and handker- chief, all styled to be worn together! Matter of fact, better buy an Arazephy.r set for yourself, too, so you won't be tempted to filch Dad's! NUSBAUM'S ;;;::;::::;:::;;:::::::.:= Al(l(OW SHIRTS====!~ 69-57. Whalen set a new Union shot record of 45 ft. 6 in. to break one of eleven years standing that day. The squad ran rough shod over Rochester to pile up a socre of 79'1,-46'-2 with Culver winning the mile, Wallington taking the 100 and 220, Belanger copping the mile and Sharpe capturing the 440. Whalen again walked away with the shot event. A strong R.P.I. team evened Union's record by de- series. Tennis The tennis team, under the guid- ance of Pete Nistad, fought hard but lost all but one in a seven game schedule. Three of the meets were lost by one point margins as the Garnet defeated only Stevens while dropping matches to Hamil- ton, Middlebury, R.P.I., and Ver- mont. Two scheduled bouts were rained out and the same fate be- fell numerous practice sessions. CHAMP IN 'ntE GOLF BALL DERBY .• :me; AIR· FUTE! LOADED Wi\t'ft '' H'I.C>K coMt=>£<£.ssyoN'\ To ~~a\\'\\ H&.P 'YOtr SA.\'{ TR'OS'E 'I'ftRE.E. Ll'TTL'E. WORDS, ''~R,VOU'RE. f4.WAV!\ Wt'fR L'R.Ul'h6'0[.UTION: CE.NTE.RFOR. PER:f''E'.C\t\ BALANCl!. AND UN\fORti\l'TY, -E-- 'n?UG\-tEST SAI..L.. IN GOLF.- \\rru:l KRO·FLtTE! wmtA. CO%'R. TH,.ey''GlVES• lNS\''JlAA O\r C.U'1'S ..... , PA.CKEJ') Wl'l'rt POWER,T00!'1'R11'E'. 'FLtGKl', TRUE 'ROU. ASSU'Rl::.D B<l \''m:. TR'!J);.-SOLU'TlOt't CE.M\l:E.R!

FRIDAY, JUNE 6, 1947 6 Dance.; Parade .. Seven Honored by Degrees Alumni Shoot Frolic, Fireworks, Have Fun (Continued from Page 1) • in 1911 and in 1938 he became Chief • James R. KH!ian, Jr. received . , . , Engineer -of the wor~s. his bachelor's degree at MIT in Columbia from 97 to 1900, He . . . . 1926. Upon graduation, he became , was ap~ointed Superin~endent of Charles F. F. Gans Jomed t.he assistant managing editor of the (Continued from Page 1) .New York Citr on .finances; and awards to the classes, who have Schools m Sc~e.nectady_-m 1900 and faculty of Union College as In- \Technology Review,\ l'ising to The procession will start .fiom Walte·r E. Kreusi uf New York raised endowments. Pr-ofessor Orin held .the position until 1917. At' structor in Mathematic:> in 1903 editor in 1930. He was named spa- Headquarters; go out the \Cla:;s City, on the Alumni Gift Fund. J. Fanell wiU lead songs during. ihat ~irne he bec~me t~n a~si~t~~t after graduation from Lafayette, cia! lecturer on publications at of 84\ gate to Union Avenue; Toastmaster will be Attorney Hi- the Luncheon. , or e ementary e uca IOn ° 1 e , . '11 Simmons College, a position he 01 B • d C T dd f N Y J( C'ty a At 3 p. m. on Alexa-ndet· Ft'eld, · State of New York He was ap- College. He was pJOmoted to fu •held from 1935 to 1938. He became through the \ d lue' gate; an ram . o o ew ot· , I , · on to the Libt·ary Field, whete it: Tru~lce of the College and mem- Union·~ BasebaJI team will meet pointed d·irector of the Motion Pic- professor in 1908. He became Dean executive assistant to the president will be reviewed by the Pre:sident, ber of the Golden Jubilee Class of the R. P. I. nine. Admission wHl tuN! Division of NEA in 1927. He of Men in 1919 and Dean of th\ of MIT .in 1939. In 1943, he became Trustees, and the judging com- '97. Invocation wiH be delivered be 50 cents. received his A.M .. degree in 1927 Coilege in 1934. In 1923, Lafayette executive vic-e president. He has mittee, composed bv Hem·•· B. by Reverend Dr. Albert C. Wyc- From 4:30 to 6 p. m. President and D. Pd. degree m 1927 from the f d h' th h norary been active in .pu-blications and has ' ' ,New York State Teachers College. · cdon erve · f upDon t Im f eS · 0 c,e I·n contri·buted a·rti'cles to many Parl~er, chairman Edward S. C. koff of Spring Valley, N. Y., also and Mrs. Davids0n will •be at home· egree 0 . oc ·or 0 Clen , · · Smith, Joseph D. Doty,, and Fred- of the class of '97. to seniors, alumni, faculty, and Gordon ~- Langley studied at recognition of •his work at Union magazines. erick C. Schmidt. The flag will be ' The dinner· wil'l feature the pre- guests. Union College class of '07 under and his contributions to Lafayette WHiiam J·ansen ·Is tne assistant raised in a shmt ceremony. and sentation of sevet·a! awards. Dick- Alumni Night Steinmetz, with Ed·ison and West- as an alumnits. He has led the re-I superintendent of schools of the the class of '47 wHl bP reeeiv<'d in.son E. Griffith of Lowville, chair- Alumni nig,ht will start with a, inghouse, and is considered •(!>ne ·of organizati<m of the athletic depart-, city of :N'ew York, and hao held into th<' Alumni Body. man of the Alumni Graduate Coun- band concert at 7:30 p. m. on the. the ·world's .great pioneers in elec-~ ment at Union, encouraged student I many important positions in the At 11:30, the Union Varsity La- cil, will present three gold medals balcony of the Gymnasium, fea-, tri'City. After graduation, he worked activities, and helped the organiza- field of education. crosse team will play thP Alumni for ub_ti~guished- a!umni_ service, tut··ing the Schene~t.ady City Band. in the h0us laboratory of Dr: Stein- lion of the div~sional system of 1 The Commencement program wiH Lacrosse team on Library Field. the rec1pu:nts of which Will not be undet· the superVISIOn of Charles :metz, under Dr. W. P. Coohdge at the college. He 1s a trustee of the also note Degrees pr·esented by Balloting for the election of a' announced in advance. Henry B. i Male, Sr. Following the concert, a. the General Electric Research Schenectady Savings Bank, mem- Union College, Albany Law School, new trusteE' will hPgin at 12 noon. 1 Parl>er of Schenectady, General! fireworks display will take place. Laboratory, and at the Allegheny ber of the Schenectady Board of Albany Medical School, Al•bany · and end at 1 p. m. It will be held Chairman of the Alumni Weekend I on Alexander Field. H. S. Van, Steel and Iron Corporation of Education, and has served on College of Pha·t·macy, and Union in Old Chapel All alumni arP Committee, will award: the Anable Voast, Chairman of the Fireworks Pennsylvania. He joined the Ca- many county and municipal ·com- Univeroity School uf Nursing, all eligible to vote. Cup to the class with the largest Committee and member of the. nadian General Electric Company mittees. departments. of Union University. A:!umni Lwicheun number of members in the .parade; Class of '24, states that this ~ · Highlighting the first normal, the McClellan Cup to the class hom cisplay should be. tops, . be-: post-war alumni weekend at ~nion, \with the. largest perc~ntage , of ca~se, for the _first ttm~ smce the Alumnt Luncheon, stadm~ at 1 mcmbct\ m the patade, t~e \an aJ.vcnt uf the wai, chcmic~ls of, 12;30 in the Gymnasium, will pre- I Voast Cup to the class w1th the pre-war standards are available.,' sent Edwat·d B. Horning, Buffalo' best costumes in the parade; two Following the firew01ks display, an attorney and member of the Union I Ja·ffe Cups, one for the class of '32, informal dance ~-ill be held in the· College silver anniversary class of! which had the largest number of Gym, from 9 lll 12. W. Ashton. '22, as keynote speaker. Guest of ' giver:; to the 1946 Alumni Gift· Swick, Chairman of the ;Dance Honor will be Govemot· Earl War-~ Fund, and the other to the class. Committee and member of the ren of California, wh<> will be, of '95, which gave the largest cumu- class of '30, states that the com- the principal speaker at Commence-: lative gift in 1946; certificates of mittee has engaged the or_chestra ment on Sunday. Oth<Jr speakers recognition, sHver· to the members of DeWitt Dewell to furmsh the at the Luncheon will be: President,! of the 25 year· reunion class, and music. The admission price of one Carter Davidson, reporting on the gold to the members of the 50 dollar will include admission to all college; Treasurer Frank Bailey of I year reunion alas; and banner three of these events. Faculty Changes Made <Continued from Page 1) $ Prof. Robert J. Hicks who wm his bachelor and Master degrees at 1 be ~ssistan.t Professor of German the University of Nebraska and hiS recetved his A.B. and M.A. at doctorate at Columbia. He was a Hamilton College where he ~a~~ht fiscal and purchasing offic·er in the for some llme. He wa_s a CIVIlian army during the war. employee of the Umted Stat~s Dr. Norman A. Preble will re- Strategic Bombing Command m Germany. place Dr. Dale as Assistant Pro- fessor of Biology. Dr. Preble is a graduate of the University of Kan- sas and of Ohio State University and spent several years making Mammalogical Investigations in New Hampshire. Dr. Eugene L. Freel. a\ ARsistant Professor in Psy~hology and Edu- cation. succeeds Profes\or Axtell. He is a graduate of Holy Cross with a Master's degree from the New York State College for Teach- ers and a law degree from Ford- ham. He \'\ned In:; I'I>.D. at :-.;\\ York Univeusity. Prof. ·Clarence !<'. Goodh('art Will become Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering in Septem- ber. He holds a B.S. in E.E. fl·om California Institute of Technology and a Master':s degree from Ohio State. He d1d a great amount of secret and confidential work fo1 the Navy during the war. Prof. Chester H. Buchanan, also an Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, graduated from the University of Vermont with a B.S. in E.E., earned his Master's at Pitt and has been working on his Ph.D. while a resident at Lehigh University. He was connected with the Signal Corps and the Air Corps in the Army. Dr. Ingo Maddaus, Jr., is the new Assistant Professui of Mathe- matics. He holds Bachelor's and Master's degr·ees from Columbia and Doctor's degree from the Uni- versity of .Michigan. He has worked in the !'<aval Rcscau.:h Labotatuiy and the .\I.I.T. Radiation Labor a· tory. Streamlined Service on Hair- cuts, Shaves or Scalp Treatment Perfections is +he Keynote at the Erie Barber Shop 22 ERIE BlVD. ... ,, DALEY·'S Restaurant FINE FOOD 412 State St. Bernard A. Shapero, who will succeed Mr. Sears as Assistant Reference Libt·arian, graduated from Union in 1939. Whi'le here before hP was elected to Phi Beta Kappa was awarded several gt·adu- ation prizes. He received a B.S. in Library Science at Columbia and is doing graduate work at Syt aeu::ot• Cniversity now. Du1 ing the war he served in the Field artillery and later as a Public Re- lations Officer. Tw11 l·nion nH•n, )..lauric£> Deul '42 unu William C. Holstein '45, will l'<'\ut·n to their Alma Mater as In- structors in Geology and Ci\·H En- gineering. respectively. Mr. Deul holds a Bachelor degree from Un- ion and a Master's degree from the Univer\ity of Colorado. He served in an Antiairrt·aft h:Jttalion for thrN' invasions before transferring to the paratroopers. He will re- place Mr. Hanson. Mr. Holstein received his Bachelor degree here and has also attended the Uni- versity of Pittsburgh. While at Union he received the Warner- King Prize for excellence in en- gineering. After graduation he went into the Navy, Construction Battalion. He worked for the Gulf Oil Company before coming to Union. Dr. Harry Herbrandson. Assist- ant Professor of Chemistry, comes to Union from Harvard where he is doing research work His degrees includP Rachrlor of Science in C'hf'mistry from the UnivPr\ilY of ;v!innf'sotn. and n Doctor of Phi!M- ophy from the University of Illi- nois. His specialty is organic chemistry. Prof Hnrold E. Clark, A~sistant I Profr;;sor of Physics·. and Donald G. BoyPr. Instructor of Biology, ·will a !so come to Union in the fall hut completP information is not available about them as yet. TROPHIES FOR ALL OCCASIONS Serving Union Since 191 l Maurice B. Graubart and Sons 166 Jay Street GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 STATE ST.-81noe 18DS 152nd Exercise (Continued from Page 1) been named as commencement speakers by the College Adminis- tration. The group includes A. George Davis, Schenectady, who· will speak on \A Firmer Founda- tion\; Paul E. Roberts, Schenec- tady, whose topic is \Civilization's Dilemma\; and Albert M. Kronick, Amsterdam, who will address the class on \Tomorrow's Somewhere\ and \Valedictory.\ Davis during his undergraduate career was Manager of Varsity Football and Basketball and a member of Delta Phi Fraternity. Roberts was a member of th<> In- ternational Relations Club and sang in the Glee Club and Choir. He is a membpr of Phi Delta Theta. Kronick was a m!'mhPr of lh!' International Relations Cluh, thE': Hale Club, and the Bridge Club.· He also played an instrument in the college band. Committet> to ,Judgt> A committee of three will judge the commencement undergraduate: orations for the award of the Blatchford Oratorical Prizes. Serv- ing on the committee are Miss , Alice Naylor of the Public Speak- • ing School in Schenectady, J. Harry Adams of the Schenectady Public School System, and Duncan . Scott McNab, a well known Sche-, nectady lawyer. The Blatchford oratorical awards consist of two gold medals pur-· chased up to the value of the in- terest on $1,000 presented to Union College by Hon. Richard M. Blatch- ford, LL.D., of New York. The medals are given to the two mem-~ bers of the graduating class who deliver in the judgment of a com- mittee appointed for the purpose the best orations of the commence- ment exercises. The invocation will be given by the Rev. H. Stanley Jones of the Tabernacle Church of Schenectady and the Rev. C. Victot· Brown will deliver the benediction. The Rev. Jones is the father of Melvin D. Jones, a member of the graduating class. Complete Photo Service AT THE College Bookstore SPECIAL! A 5x7 INDIATONE ENLARGEMENT FREE With Each Sx!O Enlargement Ordered ALL WORK GUARANTEED ANSCO COLOR FILM PROCESSED Cleaners and Dyers Ban•s Inc. Shoe RebuUders 633 State St. 204 Union St. PHONE 6-3456 Call Ball and Ball Will Call Call Graduate Council For l·nformation on Alumni LLOYD MANGRUM U. S. NATIONAL OPEN CHAMPION ~tb ~~/Ht,i~ THEY SATISFY L ····D··· . . ~ Copyright 1947,