T -HiE STUDENT NEWSPAPER OF U N I 0 N C 0 L L E G E Vol. 70, No. lO SCHENECTADY, N.Y., DECEMBER 5, 1947 Price JOe FACTORY BOSS COURSE IS AD OED --------------------------------~-------------------------------0 Division of Social Studies Will Offer New Industrial Management Major Student Body Will Meet Thursday to Discuss Proposals The first student body meeting of the term will take place on Thursday, December 11th, during the regular Chapel program. The student body meeting makes it possi- ble for the Student Council to meet with their electorate and report to them on accomplish- ments and proposals that have been arrived at in the meet- ings that have been held thus far. At this meeting, two propo~itiens will be presented, the holding of a mid-winter prom and the erection of an athletic field house. Oninion on the prom will be gathered by means of a printed questionnaire which will be distributed among the students present. Three points will be voted on: 1) does the student body want a mid-wintet· prom; 2J should formal attire be worn at the prom; 3) :;:hould the .prom be held on Friday or Saturday night. An open discussion about the field house will be held, in which stu- dents may give theit· own ideas on the subject. This meeting is im- portant, and it is hoped that as many students as possible will at- tend. The major activities of the Stu- dent Council so far this year have included the formation of the Block \U\ Society, the sponsoring of in- formal dances after home football games, and the management of student elections. In addition, the Council has joined with the Board of Managers in rec.ommending a change in the eligibility rules for participation in student activities. At the present time, the chief item on the agenda is the winter prom. For better efficiency in Student Council functions, the following committees have been organized: executive, which plans Council meetings and draws up the agenda in conjunction with the chairmen of the other committees; general activities, dealing with all matters connected with extracurricular and general college activities; athletic, having charge of all matters con- cerning athletics, such as promoting friendly rivalries, building college spirit, and morale, and attending to athletic gripes; chapel, which ar- ranges chapel programs and settles any other matters connected with chapel; elections, which plans all (.Continued on Page 4) Pre-Registration Pre - registr•ation instt·ucti: ns have been issued ·by Miss Rapelje for the second semester. All schedules are to be com- ;Jleted by Wednesday, December L 7 with the following students rc- .JOrtinf. to their advisors by that late: 1) Those who are registered in semester courses, 2) These who are registered in one ot· more \b\ courses !with the exception of German 1b, French 1b, Spanish lb, Italian 1b, Russian 1b). 3) Those who have reported to the Registrar's Office that they are :r:ct continuing the \b\ part of \a\ courses in which they are now registered. 4) Those who have been given permission to change their curricula (they will be notified in a few days of their new advisors to whom they should report>. 5) Term 2 stu- dents in Liberal Arts, Pre-medi- cal, and B.S. in Chemistry cur- ricula !they will be nctified in a few days of their new advisors to whom they should report. 6) Term 6 Civil Engineers to choose an elective. IAI! other engineer- ing schedules will be prepared in the Registrar's Office and stu- dents need not report unless sent for.) A new program in industrial administration for students choosing major programs in the Division of Social Studies was authorized by the Faculty Council Tuesday afternoon. This majo1· is designed for men preparing for careers in adl'ninistrative positions in industry. • ·---- ---------------------~ ..t. Designed From Yale Course Philomathean's and The program is patterned after the course in industrial administra- State Plan Forum tion now offered in the .school of 9• the Engineering at Yale ]lTniversitv, On Tuesday, December ' Philomathean Society in conjunc- Each student registered in this tion \\ ith the Debate Team from major is required to meet all of the Albany State Teachers College will college requit·ement:;- for the A.B. The advisers will have lists of courses to which the student's may refer. engag·e in what promises to be one of the first televised student round table discussions. The topic to be discussed will be, Resolved: \Tl:at the United States should adopt a system of Socialized Medicine.\ Both pro and· con will be represented by one student from Union and Albany State respec- tively. Those members of the Philo- matheans participating will be Fre- mont C. Van Patten, Donald Feig- enbaum and Roger A. Williams. Albany State will be represented by Bette J. Jones and Mary M. Odak. The discussion will be broadcast over Station WRGB here in Sche- nectady and the progt·am will begin promptly at 8 P. M. Philo.sophy Croup Hears Larrabee on Existentialism Existentialism ... the opposite~------------------------ The man who has nothing to turn stat:d, ar~ partly. responsible for of nausea. I to in the worst of all possible the mtensrty of thrs mood and may worlds; who attempts to solve his determine the ways in which Exis- own personal problem of existe:r:ce tentialism will influence a similar when faced with complete hope- mood in other r.ational groups in lessness and extreme despondency; the future. After a summary of asserts for himself a plan of ac- the strong and weak points con- tion that is extremely vigorous, ir- tained in this philosophy, particu- rational, and impulsive. \The larly those points which the Existentialist,\ said Professor Lar- Frenchman, Jean-Paul Sartre at- rabee, before the last Wednesday tempts to cla.i'if~'. Professor Lana- night meeting. of the Union Phi- bee turned the subject over into an losophy Club, \attempts to reaffirm open discussion. ~he meeting broke his lost pride and intellectual up at 9 p.m. wrth the. challenge humiliation by the expression 'I from Dr. Larrabee that rt was the will not be nauseated by this stink- college student of today who could ing world' ··. Professor Larrabee best ur.derstan.d ~nd thus de~end or elaborated his interpretations of refute the baste rdeas contamed m this contemporary philosophical this vehement, extremely pessimis- school by briefly outlining the tic philosophy, Existentialism. psychology of the origin and de- The Philosophy Club has only velopment of what he called the one more meeting scheduled fot· \mood of E xistentialism\. His- this term, on Wednesday evening, torical circumstances, Dr. Larrabee December 10 at 7:30 p.m. degree but is permitted to receive credit toward his degree fot· elec- tive courses from the following en- gineering S'Ubjects: Mechanical Drawing, Surveying, Mechanics 11. Electrical Engineering 13 and 15. snd Engineering 27. Program Listed The general pattern of the pro- gram includes courses in the fol- lowing areas: General Education: English 1, and one other course in the Divi- sion of Humanities, Modern Lan- guage, History 1, Economics 11, Government 12, Physics 4, Chemis- try 1, Mathematics 2, 12, and 22, and Psychology 1. Engineering: Engineering Draw- ing, Mechanics 11, Engineerin 27, Electrical Enineering 13 and 15, snd Surveying. Economics: Economics 40, Ac- counting; Economics 49, Statistics; Economics 38, Corporation Finance; Economics 43a, Marketing. Cl•edit For Engineering Courses Until the adoption of this pro- gram, a rule of the College prevent- ~d students registered as majors in Divisions I, II, and III from taking courees in Division IV in fulfillment of their requirements for graduation. In order for students registered in this program to re- ceive such credit a program must be worked out with the approval of their advisors and accepted by the Dean. The above list constitutes a gen- eral pattern illustrating the scope of the progt·am. To meet the spe- ·cial needs of individual students and to avoid the necessity of the student requiring more than the established 120 credit hours for graduaU.on, certain courses such as Psychology 1, and Marketing, and Surveying may be handled on an optional basis bY the advisor.

2 orournr \A C.ws.r Pt>ru P.rrole AH ri\ ~'!ember Associated Col- legiate Press ami distri· butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Ad,·er- tising Representative: :\a- tiona! Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representat!Ye, 420 ;lladi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of tho school year. Editorial Office, Washbum Hall. Union College. l'ub- lil'ntion Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Gffice as Sec- nnd Class l\!ail Matter, subscri ntion lOc a copy ; $:1 year; delivere1l any- where in the United StatE's 31.\ :\'i .\ 1H :\i !l ll 0 A Itll Lot H. Coolie, Jr. . .................. Edltor-ln·Cillcf Crnlg F. 'lltrlll'll ...................... }Jnnag-lng- Editor Robort Bavtlctt .......................... :>iews Editor Duncan LasllPr ..... , .................... Sports Editor Leslie DeOrout ................... ,('ireulatlun }lannger 3Iertnn Sarnoff. . . . . . . . . . . .. ......... B u•ii~P>~ 31 auagcr As A Freshman Sees it You are beginning a critical period of your life, I was told. This is the time when it is the easiest for you to prepare yourself for the challenge of the society of which you will soon hecome a part. I accepted these ideas and entered colleg-e, eager to take advantage of every opportunity. l wanted to become an active participant in college life. Similar 'lttitudes shown by the whole entering Freshmt:n dass wci·e spurred on by the complete job done by rhe orientation program. We sang the songs, we wore the caps, we pamted the Idol, we turned out for sports, we joined the clubs, we raked the leaves -in short, we exhibited a new spirit that hasn't been seen around the campus in years. But. this spirit has already begun to fizzle out. Why? ... I think it ls because we have found that we. as Freshmen. have been projected upon a system lacking in sptrit; a system with little appar- ent unity; a system m which it is difficult to find any direct advantages or any reasons for spirited participation. By system, I mean the underlying organization or the spirit in which the organization is put to use. of student government here on campus. Of more immediate concern to me, as a Freshman, is the complete indifference of that system towards the coming Frosh elections and Frosh policies in gen- eral. After all. the reason for the existence of any system is the benefit the participants as a unit and as individuals can receive from that system, benefits gained by becoming an active member of that sys- tem, and benefits gamed by the use of that system to solve the problems facing the society that func- tions under that system. What are some of the problems? 'Nhat can we do to solve them? First, there must be a frame work, a system that is organized for the direct benefit of the student body, an awareness of the students that they can stand to gain by good student government a unity of spirit, a unity of purpose. To me, this means the creation of greater representa- tion for popular student opinions and problems. It is we Freshmen who must take care that we do not slip into the present pattern and continue lax organization. We must maintain through our own class organization the unity demanded to carry out a usdul 111 og!UIIL For \xumple h\re are some issues and problem of Freshmen that can be acted upon by the Freshmen class officers: Fifty-one can hold dances and parties to provide all Freshmen a more normal opportunity to meet young women, Fifty-one can establish an intra-frosh sports league embracing all sports so that Freshmen can have more of an opportunity to participate, Fifty-one can form a Hale House committee so that Freshmen can have a means of voicing their opinion, Fifty-one can get behind such projects as the new dorm and Student Union, Fifty-one can prepare for their com- ing years at Union by putting student government back in its rightful place. 'ihese are the jobs that the president of the Freshmen class can and must del. Sam Newcomer, '51 Class President Candidate. Student Council Dances Following the Saturday night basketball games to be played in the Alumni Gym on December 13, Februm-v 7 and 21, and March 6. there will be Student C~uncil contribution dances. The dance on Saturdav. December 13 wHl last fnDm ten to one o'c!oclr. and the Union Col'!ege Dance Band will plJy. Similar dances were successful last fall after the footbaJ.l games, and such voluntary support is again hoped for and expected. Letters to the Editor Dear sir: This epistle serves a doubll' parpose: an apology and an explanation. We apologize be- cause the F>ubject of this letter will cause a cer- tain disappointment to some kindly interested parties; and we explain because an explanation is due. We are referring, of course, to our failure to produce our play this month, as previously planned. The situation in general was most certainly inimicable to a successful production. The Mountebanks were low on funds, making ade- quate publicity and suitable scenery next to impossiblP; the casting was at best mediocre; and, mos timportant, the time element obviated our chances of creating a satisfying hit of theatre. Allowing oursPlves some temperament, we also took the part of the wounded artist: it would have been unfair to both booli and music, <par- ticularly the latter>, to produce the show under such unfortunate circumstances. Well, then, let us say: \Too bad!\ And let us also hope that Unwn College in general and the Mountebanks in particular will some day get around to doing some original work. Sincerely, 8. Charles De Matteo, '46 Vincent C. De Baun, '47 Basketball Tickets It appears that the College will be able to obtain the Armory for but four of its hom<) basketball games <Dec. 17 Williams, Feh. 4 Wesleyan, Feb. 8 R.P.I., and Feb. 25 Mohawk) with the other five <Dec. 13 Vermont, Dee. 19 St. Lawrence, Feb. 7 Hamilton, Feb. 21 Hobart, and Mar. 6 Trinity> played in the Alumni Gymnasium. In view of the fact that the latter site seats but 924 persons, conferences involving the Stu- dent Council, the Administration and the Di- rector of Athletics have been held resulting in a unanimous agreement upon the following plan for distributing tickets for games at the Gym- nasium ONLY: 524 for students 200 for students and their dates 30 for student veterans' wives 70 for faculty 100 for the public Further qualifications with respect to this ticket allocation are as follows: 1. No reservations will be accepted or tickets sold prior to any of these five games. 2. Ticket distribution and sale will begin at 7:?0 P. M. on th enight of Pach gamr>. StudPnts Will enter and obtain their tickets at the entr\nce un the NORTH end of the lowe1· balcony nand UJ?on pr~sentation of their Student Athletic Ttcket Will be issued their OWN game ticket ONLY .. It .will NOT be possible for one student to obtain tickets for an entire group. 3. Students with their dates, student veterans and their wives, faculty members and the public will enter and obtain their tickets at the entrance on the SOUTH end of the lower balcony. 4. Ticket allotments in the various categories will be held until 8:00 P. M. after which time unissued tickets will be pooled and issued o; sold on a first come first served basis. Tick_ets for games played in the Armory will be available one week prior to each contest. Student veterans must procure tickets for their wives prior to arriving at the Armory. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1947 I For Your Information On Monday, December 8, at 7:30 p.m., WRUC will present a stadent forum en \What is the A.V.C.\ On Tuesc'ay, December 9, at 7:30 p.n1., in C.E. 106, the A.V.C. will present a speaker on the pt·esent housing situaticm. A carton of Chesterfields will be awm·ded to the writer of the best letter to the editor of the Concor- diensis during the mcnth of De- cember. New Yorl!: State Veterans Bonus Forms, which cannot be fil!'d until January 1, will be available in the Student Activities Office on January 5. After being filled out, they may be notal'i.zed by Mrs. Travis on January 7, in Silliman Hall, from 9-12 a.m. and 12:30-5 p.m. It is advisable that the veteran check on credentials necessary, before obtaining the form. Donald White, tet'm 7, B.S. in Physics is added to the Lean's List for the mid-term. The Pre-Medical Society will pre- sent a speaker on Tuesc\ay Decem- ber 8, at 8 p.m. after a short busi- ness meeting begir ning at 7:15 p.m. JACOB'S PHARMACY Corner Nott & Carrie XMAS GIFTS FOR HER and OTHER MEMBERS of FAMILY I. J. Linsey., Prop. PHIL ENGELBART Liquor S.fore • 519 Union Street Between Barrett and Jay Street Phone 3-31 I 0 • For Your Liquor Needs NOTT REST AU RANT and BAR • Right Outside Green Gate WINES - LI9UORS and BEER :FRiDAY, DE1 Garnet Since A,l Compet Plays He In Big <;: The f·irst G. since 1942 will Clinton, N. Y. c . Hamilton Colle Urion and two a three dgy I' ment to be helc indoor at·er.a. heigh round tea-ms which w Two games are race off time 8:30 p.m. 35 c Coach Art 1 doing his utmc: lntramurc INTRAMURAl. Unitt Phi Sig Delt Chi Psi 15, . 11, 15, 17. D U 15, 10, 15 Easte Betas 15, 15, D Phi 15, 17. Sig Chi 2, Ph Kappa Nu 1 17, 3. Basketb De~. 6-1 p.m. 0 2p.m.BI 3p.m. D 4p.m. D 8-7p.m. H 8p.m. S 9p.m. P G 9-7p.m. V 8p.m. K 9p.m. A 10-7p.m. C 8p.m. B For C< See aU William 601 U1 AUTO G Quality 604 UNION We Call Phon

7:30 7:30 will sent I be best De- be be ing in in List pre- em- 7:15 Y :FRiDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1947 3 Garnet Forming First .Hockey Team Sophs Crush Seniors 4-1 Foote Pool Open ·In Lacrosse Fray Since Abandonment of s,port :~n '42 fo~i-h~ru,~~~~~.th~~~ni~~: inl:v~~~~~ Sophomct·e c•lass teak possession ot Competit.ion Starts January I as Hamilton the 87 interclass laCI'Osse tiOphy h h G in the final playoffs on the Gra.du- Piays Host to Middlebury, le .eig ., arnet ate Council .!field. ·In ·B·'Jg Q•:•ad:ran·g•i·e Round Robi·n Tournament In the prelimm~ry mactches the \' Freshman class showed surprising The f.irst Garnet h8ckey team \3> --·-·--·--·- .. · · strength. They put up a spirited since 1942 will take to the ice at dates that have respor ded to the battle in losing to the Sophom:res Clinton, N. Y. on January 1st when initial cull, but the lack cf ice has by 4-0. The se3sor.ed Seniors up- Hamilton College will play host t0 seriously hampered any actual set the Juniors in a hotly fought Union and two other schools during selection of men, and till the Coun- match by a 2-1 tally, a three day round rcbin tourna- cil Fielc' rink is ready, theie will George Leads Sophs ment to be held in the Continental's be no certainty E 6 to the strength Varsity lacrosse captain By indoor m·er.a. Middlebury and Le- of the team. Pre-ice work:ut has George led the S.phs to victory, heigh round out the competing been confined to the handball while 'most valuable\ Jim F!yr.n tea.ms which will play in the meet. com·t, the emphasis beinr en the was a tower of strength en the de- Two games are scheduled each day, conditioning of the candidates. · fense. Goalie Gene Giratd staved race off time being 2:30 p.m. and Hockey is back at Unior, and full off many thrusts by the Seniors in . . 8:30 p.m. student support t:J Coach Lawrence the final match. Charlie Howe, 35 Candidatf's and the embr,·o pucl{sters should Frank F o r e s t, Tom Quinlan, J Marty O'Meara, Jerry Rest, and Coach Art Lawrence h's beer. insm·e its permanent return to the Lou Snell rour.ced out the Sopho- doing his utmcst with lhe 35 candi- campus. more midfield and attack. Matt Intramural Results «:U'i!d Schedule ' fNTRAMURAL VOLLEYBALL United League Phi Sig Delt 2, Sig Phi 0 <F> Chi Psi 15, 11, 15, Kappa Sig 11, 15, 17. D U 15, 10, 15, Block Fleet 5, 15, 8. Eastern League Betas 15, 15, Theta Delt 5, 11. D Phi 15, 17, Phi Delt 12, 15. Sig Chi 2, Phi Sig Kap 0 <Fl. Kappa Nu 15, 15, 15, D. Chi 2, 17, 3. De~. Basketball Schedule 6-1 p.m. Olt'gym-Sig Chi. 2 p.m. Betas-Phi Delt. 3p.m. D Phi-D Chu. 4 p.m. D U-Black Fleet. 8-7 p.m. Kappa Sii-Wildcats. 8 p.m. Sig Phi-Thet1 Delt. 9 p.m. Phi Sig Delt-Fhi Gamm. I 9 p.m. Ramblers-Sig Chi. VoUPyball De~. 8-12:55 Alpha Delt-B(tas. 9 Sig Phi-Chi Psi. 10 Theta Delt-D Phi. llNTRAMURAL BASKETBALL American !League Kappa Nu 28, D Phi 21. Kappa Sig 30, D Chi 14. Alpha Delt 22, Wildcats 10. Betas 43, V 5's 24. Nite Owls 25, Phi Delt 20. Kappa Nu 44, Psi U 10. D Phi 19, Kappa Sig 16. D Chi 23, Wildcats 15. Alpha Delt 48, V 5's 24. National League D U 19, Sig Chi 17 . Chi Psi 63, Theta Delt 14. Sig Chi 41, Phi Sig Kap 23. Phi Sig Delt 32, Ramblers 15. Phi Gamm 53, K A 20. Kazlauskas, Bob H~yes, Bert Na- pear, and Tony Mastrianni bore the brunt of the work on defense. Jerry Cocnan brought to,E·ether a strcng senior aggregation with Doug Barry, Cliff Benfield, Dick Fur- long, Tom Crone, and Vinnie D'Amico turnh:g in creditable per- formances. Reeb Leads Juniors The Junior squad, led by Ch:rlie Recb, gave the seniors a rlal scare. Dave Blumenstock, Phil Btady, Jchn B1·igham, Ed Patnode, Dick Phillips, and Joe Fudgna featured for the third year men. Ken Schneelock, Bill Greve, Mrrrlll Mott. Norm Carr, and Die]{ Wag- ner showed the most promise for I the class of '51. Their te'm was in top notch physical conc'iticn but With the reopening of the Ie- vamped Foote Memorial Pool, the Union natators have begun serious practice fat· the season opener on January 9. On this date the mer- men will be hosts to the team from the University of Rcchestcr. A squad of 65 men is practicing every afternoon now to try and make up for part of the seven weeks of prac- ticing every aftet·noon now to try ar:d make up for pa.rt of the seven weeks o.f praetic e lest due to the repairs on the pool. The team this year is captained by Jim Hogeboom who was also captain of last year's team. Other mainstays of last year's team who are bad: this season are Jce Tafel, Jim Courter, and Bob Albright. lack of experience was a handicap . As long as fair weather con- tinues, lacrosse practice will be held Monday through Friday, 4 ;OO to 5:30, on Graduate Council Field. In the event of rain cr snow, prac- tice will be held on the handball court of the Alumni Gymnasium. FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 791 J Maurice B. Graubart and Sons 166 Jay Street 9-7 p.m. V 5's-Nite Owls. 8 p.m. K A-Phi Sig Kap. 9 p.m. Alpha Delt-Psi U. 10-7 p.m. Chi Psi-Oldgym. 8 p.m. Be tas-K N. D. U. 31, Sig Phi 9. Black Fleet 45, Theta Delt 4. Oldfym 46, Phi Sig Kap 13. Phi Gamm 18, Sig Chi 15. WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE .I For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William Hu Plath 601 Union Street AUTO SERVICE GEM Quality Cleaners . 604 UNION COR BARRETT We Cafl For and Deliver Phone 4-4679 No Finer Place to Eat Try Us On Your Next Date * PELOP'S 438 STATE ST. (Near Proctor's} MILK VItamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE 6·2351 L_ JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens ~:me! the Finest Gifts Corner State and Centar S'h. COLONIAL ICE CREAM CO. Ice Cream at Its Best 134 Mohc;iwk Avenue Scotia Phone 6-3443 II

4 Newman · Ciubbers Stu . dent Wives T ld · R · •...I A _ · Mrs. Floyd A. Glenn, president of 0 eus re Bad the Students' Wives Club, has an- On Sunday, N0vember 23rd, a Communion Brea · kfast was held in Hale House under the sponsorship of the Newman Club. The mem- bers and guests of the Club at- tended the ni - ne o'clock Mass at the Church of Saint John the Evangelist, and the brea'lt.fast fol- · nounced . that thN ' e will be no card party on December 6. A regular meeting and card . party for stu- dents• wives only will be held on · December 10. Each person attend- ing is asked to bring 10 cents for cokes, and a few sandwiches or rookies. lowed immediately. very existence of tile increasing The guest speaker was Dr, James g - rowth of Secularism. As a rem- E. Smith, a prominent Schenec - edy for this increased growth, Dr . tady physician. Dr. Smith is an Smith offered the following gocd alumnus of Union, a past pz·esident · advice: \If we follow the example of the Schenectady County Medical of our Catholic teachin~; . , we are Society, a m - ember of the staff of bound, a:; a result of 01:1 - r fi.ne ex- the Ellis Hospital, and a member ample, to gain the respect · of our of the Knights of Columbus. community and ou - r country; we The address of the guest speaker will be assisti-ng to make our na- dealt with the growth of Secular- tion the greatest a-nd grandest that ism as \the practical exclusion of man has ever known. God from the human way of think- Also present, as guests of the ing and living'', \In such a fertile Newman Club, were Dr. Carte r field\ said he, \grew Nazism, Fas- Davidson, President of Union, Mr . cism, Communism, resultir.g in and Mrs. Wilford H. Ketz, the chaos, unrest, and the threat of Grand Regent of the Catholic war.\ Pr. Smith blamed the Daughters of America, several Americans themselves in part for members of the faculty of the Ellis this, because we, by our philosophy Hcspital Training School, and the of easy living are permitting the Newman Club of Ellis Hospital. NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE \SUSSEX\ ••• by Arrow If you're a gent who has a bent for a widespread collar. Holler for an Arrow \Sus s ex,\ the cLssic of the spread collars. Comes in fine Oxfords, and broadcloths, whites, solid colors and stripes. Price $3.25 and up. DO CLOTHES MAKE THE MAN? Send for your free copy of \The What, \'(/hen and W~ar of Men's Clothing\-a handy guide for men who \ant to dress WISely and well. \Vrite to: College Dept., Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc., 10 East 40th Street, New York 16, N. y, :~RROW SHIRTS ancl TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTs I ~ . I· · FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, ' 1.947 J . . . . i Freshman Voting . Mass Meeting fco ; n.'fJ : I Sl t d M d (Continued from Page 1) ' ' ~ a e ' . on . ay \ student elections and a-rranges fol' : . Elections wi-ll - be held for fresh- . elecU.an campaigns; and social, men offices Manday, December 8, which plans the social schedule of from n0on to 1:30 p.m. in Old the Co.J.lege. Two sub-committees, Chapel. Three undergraduates and orientation and campus chest, are one faculty advisor wiH be present · · attached to the committee on gen- 1 at the elections. The · ba\J.Ioting wi.JI : era! activities, which works in con- - be secret with the Student Activi- junction with the Board of Manag- ties Office counting the votes Man- ers as much as p - ossible. day afternoon. Cand-idates are: The Student Council has been in President : Don M. Cregier, Jack correspondence with St. Lawrence J. Fischel, s. Scott Jackson, Stuart · university lately in regard to I · R. McAHester, Sam H. Newcomer. changes in the form of student gov- Vice-presic'ent: Robert M. Dia- ernment of the latter. ~ - - . mond, Joseph R. Gabriels, Grorre 0 A. Hendon, Arthur G. Shapiz · o, Wal- AIEE \ I f f\ ter M . Stroup, Frederic I . Winslow. n Orma · 10111 Secretary: Peter D. Fyfe, pun- can S. Martin, Frank B. Walker II. Treasurer: David H. Brind, Mar- tin Siegel. ---0--- Vets• Insurance Veterans are advised that G.I. in- surance may be reinstated without physical Pxamination until Decpm- ber 31, 1947. Two (2) monthly pay- ments will suffice to pay thP cost of reinstatement and a premium fo1· the current month. The student branch of the A.I.E.E. announces that at their next meeti-ng on December lOth, at 7:30 P. M. in Old Chapel, Mr. Fow- ler Blauvelt of Fiberglas Corp., N. Y., will be present . A sound I · movie in color, \Watts in Glass\ will reveal the processes by which glass fibers ar-e mad-e; the manu- facture of glass cloth and tape; and the use of glass for wire in- sulation . All interested are welcome to at- tend. Following the meeting, re- fr-eshments will be served . ARROW SHIRTS! • • . with the famous rrsUSSEX\ collar Designed for men who enjoy a change to a widespread collar. Sussex looks especially well with an Arrow tie maJe up in a smooth Windsor knot. Co1ne in and see us for all Arrow products. NUSBAUM'S

• trusts Founded at Union College in 1877 VOL. 70, No. 11 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FR · I ; DAY, DECEM.BER 12, 1947 PRICE lOc ~~----~~~------~------~------------------- Over Two :Thirds Chest Pledges In; , Aid Five Groups I . Lyle Dean, chairman .of the Chest Committees, announced that as of Monday, December l, the 1947-48 Campus Chest l had collected $3283.65 of the $4940.50 · pledged early this fall , by 1249 students and 64 members of the coUege faculty and administration. · While this total approximates only two- thirds of the originally-desired goal of a five-dollar average per man, it is none-the-less an encouraging figure when com- pared to charitable drives made in the past on the campus. $3078.65 Cont1·ibuted · ~------ -------- Of this amount 947 ur.dergradu- ates have, to the above date, actual- ly contributed $3078.65 of $4576.00 subscribed in September. With this in ·mind the Campus Chest Com- mittee, which i13 attached to the student council committee on gen- eral activities, strongly urges that the balance of all pledges be paid at the Student Activities office in Washburn Hall within the next seven days-i.e., before the Christ- Newcomer Frosh · Pres. \The wo1 · k has just begun,\ stated Sam Newcomer, newly elect- ed presider.t of the Freshmen Class And with that statement, positive action followed by holding a meet- ing of aH the candidates and call- mas recess. ing for a class meeting on Monday, Five Organizations December.. 15, at noon In Old This year, according to prefer- Chapel. ences fr..dicated by means of a Approximately 68% of the class check-off system on the pledge voted with the highest number of cards, the campus Chest will make. votes being cast for the presiden- donations to two local, one na- tial office. Newcomer was elected tiona!, and two intunational or- by a plurality of 73 votes- out of a ganizations; they are, respectively, total of 195 votes cast. Frederic the Schenectady City Mission, the Winslow wc>s elected vice-president Community Chest of Schenectady, by a plurality of 75 votes. Duncan the United Negro Coiiege Fund, the Martin anc Martin Siegel were Fund for Near East Colleges, and elected to the offices of Secretary the · World Stucer.t Service Fund. and Treasurer, respectively. The City Missicn was founded in Newcomer from Seattle 1906 in Schenectady and besides Sam Newcomer is from Seattle, evangelistic work has devoted it- Washington, and is a psych. major. self to feeding the hungry, housing A member of the Student Council the homeless, and providing em- by virtue of his new office, Presi- ployment for the unemployed. It dent Newcomer is also a swim team has served more than 300,000 men aspirant. In Seattle he was a stu- in the forty years since its found- dent under the Character Research ing. Project instituted · by Dr . Ernest Twenty-two welfare orgar izations Ligon At Roosevelt High in Seattle are given funds through the Com- student government was stressed munity Chest Agency on a yearly as an activity and a! stludents par- basis to facilitate the disposition ticipated actively in the affairs of of funds to needy persons. Included their school , in the Agency's list are the Public Vice President Fred Winslow, a Health Nursing Association, the native of Holbrook, Mass., has at- Associaticn for the Blind, the tended the U. of Vermont and. the George w. Carver League, Ellis U. of Mass. He is an E.E. student Hospital, the Jewish Community here at Union. A Navy veteran, Center, the YWCA, the YMCA. Winslow has been active in cross- The United Negro College Fund country and hockey at the schools is a volur.tary organization com- he previously attended. prising 33 Negro private colleg€S Secretary Duncan Martin, Del- who solicit funds annually in some mar, N. Y., is working for his 30 major cities and 29 college com- Bachelor of Arts degree and was munities for the purpose of con- very active in sports durin!\ his ducting 8 _ united appeal for funds secondary education at Bethlehem with which to help meet the cur- Central. Treasurer Martin Siegel is a rent operating expenses of the Schenectadian and enrolled in the m~~:~[ 1:!!.~~!i~n;~IIeges are now Social Studies division. A gradu- affiliated with the Near East Col- ate of Nott Terrace High he was lege Association, ail located on the active in literary, musical and lan- g~Ja,g~ clu'Pa tnere. (Continued on Page 4) President Newcomer and Vice ----o President Winslow called a meet- <Continued on Page 4) : · stan Kenton In Jazz Concert Dance Tiff Averted As Local 85 Waits By George T. Orick The 'library wiJ.I sponsor a Jazz Concert this Saturday afternoon, December 13, at 4 : 00 P.M . in the main reading reom. AH are · wei- . C·ome to ceme and dig the jive. By · . popular request, Stan Kenton wiH · be featured. Other ccntributors to the sessien will be Dizzy GiHespie, Beyd Raeburn, and, as ever, The Duke . For the lovers of soft and sentimer.tal croening, we wHI cffer such numbers as BHlie Hellic'ay with \Lover Man\ Pearl Bailey with \Legalize My Name\ and a little of that perennial favorite Sarah Vaughn tossed in as an: appetizer. An orchestra composed of Union Coilege students will play at a dance in Hale House tomorrow night after the Union-Vermont basketball game, it was announced yesterday following a week of indecision during which it was feared Schenectady Local 85 of the American Federation of Musicians might attempt to prevent a non-union orchestra from playing at the affair. We hope that enough chucks will show se that the idea wiU go over with a ·bang. For those who have instruments, they may leave them at the doer. Such · blows as wish to study on a Saturday afternoon had better go to SIIliman. The issue arose when an officer of Local85 in reply to a query by Roger Williams '48, Chairman of the Student Council Social Committee, expressed the opinion that use of a non-union orchestra would constitute \unfair competition\ to members of the union. ~ Compromise 0 Annual Carol Sing Feature of Xmas Program In Chapel A VC Outlines Future; Says Red Lable False · The \high cost of living and price control\ was the sub- . ject of the second meeting of the AVC on December 9. The subject was preceded by a detailed report on the price-wage relationship controversy, which was presented by Mr. Harold Robinson, asst.-manager of the Schenectady Cooperative and The twenty-third annual Christ- an AVG research committee. The discussion which followed mas program will be presented in impressed the members of the need for immediate and posi- Memorial Chapel on Sunday, De- cember 14, under the direction of tive government action to bring prices of essential goods and Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Director of wages in line. Music for Union College. The pro- Committee to Report$ A, • ....--------------- gram will include .organ music by The research committee was Dr. Tidmarsh, the carol sing, and charged by the membership to con- choir singing. Dr. Tidmarsh wiii tinue investigation and to make a be assisted by Miss Hazel Roberts report of this research and rec · om - at the piano, Florian Schnurer at mencations for correcting these the chimes, and Miss Helen Hen- conditions to be presented for con- shaw at the organ. sideration at a later meeting. The program will . be divided into The Veterans Affairs Committee three presentations. For the first part, the usual Sunday services will reported the results · of research, in collaboration with the Veterans · be replaced by a program of a se- lection of Christmas carols at 11 Wives' Club and Mr. Ketz, on the feasibility of the institution and a.m. This part of the program will operation of a cooperative store. be carried on the air by a local radio station. The second part of . This report was favorably received and was followed by a resolution the program will be presented at that the matter be further inves- 4 p.m. in the chapeL The final tigate, and that the A VC . suppcrt stage of the program will be a the project. The committee also community sing in the chapel at reported th1,1t, in conjunction with 7:30 p.m. For this part of the pro- the Coordinator of Students Activi- gram, a lantern wiii be set up to ties, a program for the distribution project the words of the songs on of the New York State :Veterans' a screen set up on the stage. Bont.:s form;; is being developeo. Unlike the programs in the past, in which loud speakers were set up WRUC Broadcasts Forum in the Alumni gymnasium and Old In conjunction with the program Chapel to accommodate the over- to familiarize the students and the flow crowd, ·arrangements for these public in general, the A VC held a Student Wives ai Yuletide Party; Co-op Considered The question of whether or not there is a need for a coeperative food - buying on campus was die- cussed at an informal meeting of the Student Wives' Club held at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Wilford Ketz Wednesday evening. Mrs. Elton B. Harvey, chairman of the Wives Club Committee on Cooper- ative Buying, questioned those present as to their opinions on the need for cooperative food . buyin~ and the best method of establishing and running a cooperative grocery unit on ~ampus. Survey in Prog.ress buildings have not been made. In- forum over WRUC on December Pamphlets on the working mech- stead, loud speakers wiii be in- 8 with Robert Hartwell as M.C. anism of a cooperative, donated by stalled in the tower of the chapel Answering the questions were the A.V.C. organization who have so that the music may be heard Leonard Suskind, Eric Schmertz, taken an active interest in this over the entire campus. and Hugh Montg,omery. In reply problem, were distributed at the This Christmas program has be- to the charge of communism, the meeting. Since a majority of wives come an institution in Schenectady members replied it was ridiculous . were not present at the meeting, and a tradition at Union. Up until Such prominent members as Har- it is not at present known whether a few years ago, the program was old S tass e n, May o r William . or not the need is great enough. spread out over a period of two or O'Dwyer, General Arnold, and Mrs. Harvey is now conducting a thr·ee consecutive Sundays in De- Franklin D . Roosevelt Jr. are not survey among the women not pres- ~ember. If p~st attendance is any lik€Iy to join an orga,ni:;;a,tiQn in- ent. to get their opinions. A report · indication, this year·s program fluenced by communists. will be published of the results should attract a crowd even greater The aims of the local and na- when a majority of opinions have than those in past years. (Continued on Page 4) been obtained. The matter could not be decided officially before the dance, and a t em p o r a r y understanding was reached whereby the campus or- chestra wiii play at the dance, a charity affair. This compromise was arranged by Wilford H. Ketz, Coordinater of Student Activities, and Lawrence McGovern, President of the Schenectady local. A meeting will be held January 6, 1948, between college represen- tatives and the executive board of Local 85 to establish a permanent policy for har:dling such matters. Hope was expressed yesterday by Mr. Ketz that understanding satis- factory to the Coiiege would be reached, whereby any student may supplement his funds by engaging in campus activities without inter- ference from non-college groups. Precedent Claimed Basis for the near-dispute was the musicians' union's contention . that hiring of union erchestras to play at Coiier . e affai · rs in the past set a precedent which substantiates the union's ccncern in the present situation. According to a member of the musicians' union who did not wish to be identified, violation of such a precedent might result in efforts by the union to prevent member orchestras from playing at future coiiege affairs. Such a \blacklist\ would affect major dances, such as proms. The compromise arrange- ment for tomorrow's dance and the meeting on January 6 represent efforts · by the College and the union to avoid such a drastic measure. Led by Arthur Agnello of Roches- ter, the student orchestra is as yet unnamed. The unit may adopt the traditional college designation of \The Garnet Goblins,\ Ketz said. 0 Miss Stabler Will Do Impersonations Quiet Reigns While Council Reports Lack of student response during the questioning session and a full report by the Student Council on its many accomplishments marked the first Student Body Meeting of the term held in Chapel on Thurs- day. United States Should Pull Out of China Says Theodore White in First Freedom Forum of Season \Personality Portraits,\ a pro- gram of original chat·acter sketches, wiii be presented by Cornelia Stabler, wei known dramatic mono- logist, in th€ Union College Me- morial Chapel on Monday evening, December 15, lit 8 o'clock. Miss Stabler ' s recital is the sev- enth in the winter series of pub- lic concerts and lectures sponsored by Union College this year. The program wiii be open to the pub- lic without charge. By Orazio Ottaviano A majority of those present ap- (Lack of space prevented use proved a formal Mid-Winter Prom of this report last week. How- to be held on Friday, F-ebruary 27 ever, this story is considered of from 10 to 2. George Lowe has been appointed chairman of the importance sufficient to warrant dance committee. its printing at any date.)-Editor. President Albert Hill opened the \Puii out.'\ . and \Wait and see,\ program with a c9mplete resume of the legislation, recommendations were the expressions usE'd by Thee- and approvals that have been ef- dore While, Freec;lom Forum speak• fected by the Council. Social Chair- er of Monday night, Dec. 1st., to man Roger Williams explained the teii his audience the steps he feels prom questionnaire on which the vote was taken. should be taken by the United The only response by the student States government in relation to its body, during the question part of confuseJ policy towards the pres- the program, was in regard to the ent Chinese government. Brand- fieldhouse. Ed Butler of Alpha ing the Chiang Kai-Shek govern- Delta Phi expressed the opinion ment a most corrupt and wicked that a hockey rink should be in- instrument he voiced the opinion eluded in the plans for the field- that aid to' the present reactionary house. · government is only subsidizing the The outstanding achievement of' present civil conflict in C~ina. the council during the past term Mr. White, former L1fe corre- was the establishment of an elec- I spondent in China, was intro?u.ced tion committee to prepare the way I to his audience by Mr. Wilham for all elections. This was effected Murphy of the English Dept., a as the result of \gripes'; on the part classmate of ~bite's at Ha~varq. of many of the students following He opened his remarks w1th a the last all college election. warning that he could not hope to The sketches are called \Person- make complete sense of the con- anybody for Chiang is for China; of the aid that the Russians could ality Portraits\ by the author, Miss fusion that exists in the Chinese and convers!y, that anybody against give them. This statement is a Stabler, because they are word pic- situation. He attempted to build Chiang is against China. partial answer to those critics who tures of Mr. and Mrs. America, as up background for the main part His Pull out, \and Wait and feel that ceasing aid to Chiang funny and endearing as the people of his talk, which dealt with a com- see,\ are probably the most honest would result in a Communist vic - next door. parisori of the performances of the and direct words spoken for a par· tory in China that was directly Miss Stabler, VI ho is actress , Kuomintang government led by tial solution of the problem of backed by the Russians. author and playwright as well as Chiang, and the government of the what America should do for China. Mr. White earnestly stated that director of a theater group, has ap- Communist forces that hold a large I By puiiing out of China at this . ou-t · present anti-Communist policy, pearcd widely throughout the L:nit· part of Northern China. This I time, the forces there will have to in those countries where we arc cd States in her oi'iginal character background consisted of a \Pearl get along with what equipment facing it, should be substituted by sketches. Sl::e is well known to Buckian\ treatment of the life that I and supplies they have and shortly, the positive policy of alleviation of many ex - G.I.'s who attended her re- the peasant of China leads ever~ · reconciliation, compromise or vic- the conditions that are conducive citals in USO camp shows in day for the short time that he is tory .for one side would result, for to the fostering of Communist ele- Europe during the war. Swarth- faced with the ~r?blem of eking . the civil war could not continu e 1 ments. Doing away with the more College and later Columbia out his meager ex1stence . . very long if outside aid were I hunger and ptivation in those areas university were the schools at A personal friend of Chiang Kai\ . ceased. where Communist influences are which she received her dramatic Shek for about seven years, Mr . Mr . White stated that while it now being felt would do much in training. At the present time she White was able to gi:ve his listeners 1 is not !mown exactly how much aid wa1·ding off Communist tlu eats of is also dii cctoi of the Bu<:k Hills first hand accounts of the person- the Communist forces are receiv· control. Ho expressed the opinion Players sum · mcr thcalcl'. ality that is Chiang's, as well as the ing directly from Soviet Russia, it that the present and futu1·e aid The next scheduled event in the psychology that is so much a part was learned only very recently that programs to tho;;e European coun- series of I ' ecitals and lectures will of Chiang's thinking and actions . a Russian ship had docked at a tries, included · in the \Marshall be a discussion of current Europe- Stressing the fact that Chiang .is a Communist port. He also stated I Plan\ is a constructive effort in en problems by Dr. Harry Van s~Idier, and that h~ has. been smce 1 that. while some ai~ might be forth- I that dire~tion. ~imilar. aid. should Walt, Psydwlogist and world trav- hts E:arly youth, Mt. Whtte wPnt on commg from Russ1a, the Commun- not be gtven As1a, Chma m par- eler, who recently returned fron• t? say that Chian.g's chief. motiva- , ist gr.oup in China is. not very clo~e-: ticular, ur.til the gove;nments there I a prolonged and intensive study ~Jon f~r any nef~rtous. deahngs and 1 ly alhed to the Russ1an Commu~1st I are reasonably organized and have 1 of the psychological problems posed mconsJ.stent achons 1s the result I govc~·nment. Breaks have been 1m· I the welfare o.f th~ population, as a (by the trends and attitudes of of Ch1ang's personal belief that pendmg that were stayed because whole, as then pttmary concern. European peoples.

2. mnurnr Member Associated Col- Legiate Press and distri- butor of the CoJleaiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: N a- tiona! Advertising Service. Inc., Colle7e Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the •r.hool year. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- , lication ·Office, The Ga- · zette Press, 334 State St. : Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- om! Class Mail Matter, subscription We a copy ; $3 year; delivered any- wher·e in the United States. 'L\~LHa~<: IHlAIW Lot H. Coolie, Jr. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Editor-in-Chief Craig F. !llltclll•ll ...................... :Hunn.gln~r Editor Robert Bartlett .......................... :-. ews Editor Dtmoon Lasher .......................... Sports Editor Leslie DeGroot. ................... ('ireulntlon )larmger )l~rton Sarnoff ...................... Business ~lamlg·cr Respite As can be readily observed, commitments to the Dean's Office have limited our editor- ial space in this issue. It m.ig-h t be surmised that this situation will be greeted with a sigh of relief in several quarters, quarters which evidently are rather dubious as to the intent of the paper's policy. To these, we voice the assurance that we are really most friendly at heart, that we hope the week's rest will be used to good advantage (perhaps additional constructive letters will be on the way) ; and incidentally, gentlemen, l\Ierry Christmas! Sundry Observations Although we do not wish to repeat the violent kind of entreaty which was the prac- tice of the paper last year, we feel that om· basketball team deserves top-notch suppot·t in its campaign this year. The initial g-ame is on our gym and is against a powerful oppo- nent. Our support is needed ... much also depends on us. Incidentally, we wonder how man~: stu- dents and alumni saw the article in Wednes- dav's Union-Star concerning possible tax- ation of present tax-free enterprises of the nation's colleges. Do we detect some worried frowns and determined scurrying on the part of our financial fathers? Final Exarnina tions All C\Xaminations will bt\ held in the Gy~nas~um unlPss otherwise dire('ted. The final exammations In Drawing la, lb, and 3a will be given during the last class period. Conflicts in examinations should be repot•ted to Miss Bouck in tile DE>an's Office before December ~0. NOTE: Where sections of some courses are 1n different rooms, the sections arc given FIRST. then the test room. e.g. Math. la, sec. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6-Gym. MONDAY, JANUARY 12 8:3o-ll :30 French 2b c Second year French), section 1; French 20a <French Civilization of the 19th Century); German 2b, section 1 t Intermediate); Spanish lb, section 1 <Elementary); Russian la <Elementary); Government 12b !Introduction to Government); Economics 38a, section 1 !Corporation Finance); Economics 43a, section 1 I Marketing) ; Philosophy 29a <History of Ideas in Western Civ.l; Biology 2la 1 Embryology); Chemistry) 3la <Advanced Physical); Mathematics 12a, section 1 iCalculusl; Mathematics 21b 1 Continuation of 2lal; Mechanics of Material 20a; E.E. 33 Lab. I E.E. Senio1· Lab.); E.E. 41 CA. C. Ma- chinery); Highways & Airports. 1:304:30 ... English la 1 Freshman English) sections 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11-Gym 2, 7, 12-E.E. 22; English 1b 1 Freshman English); English 10a <Introduction to English Literature); American Civilization la, sec- tions 1, 3-G~·m 2, 4, 5--E.E 22; American Civ. lb. rUESDAY, JANUARY -13 8:3o-ll :30 Latin lla <Intermediate); French lb. section 2 (Elementary>; French 22a 1 French Classical Drama); English 25a <English Novell; History 16a. section 2 (History of the United States>; Economics 37a, sec- tion 1 (Pro b. of Lahor and Ind. Management); Economics 39a. section 2 I Money & Banking); Eco- nomics 49a <Business Statistics); Philosophy 17a, section 1 1 Introduction to Philosophy); Philosophy 54a <Metaphysics & Theory of Value>: Geology 12a !Geology & Physiography of North America) G.L.; Mathematics lb. section 2 I Freshman Technic all; Mathematics 22a <Cont. of Mathelllatics 12b); Psy- chology llb C Psych. of Personality & Adjustment); Chemistry lla. sections l, 3, 4, 5 <Quantitative Analysis); Education 3b !History and Prin. of Education); Mechanics of Materials 20b; E.E. 23, sec- tion 2 I E.E. Theory-Junior). 1:30-4:30 Mathematics la !Freshman Technical), sections 2. 3, 4, 5, (J-Gym section 1-E.E. 22; Mathematics 2a <Freshman Academic) sections 2, 3, 4, 5, (J, 7- Gym section 1-E.E. 22; Mathematics 2b !Freshman Academic); Mathematics lla c Calculus-Tech.) sec- tions 3, 4, 5, 6, 7-Gym sections 1, 2-E.E. 22; Law 1a <Engineering). WEDNF...SDAY, JANUARY 14 8:30-11:30 Latin cla) (Elementary); French lb, section 1 (Elementary) ; German 11a (.Conversation); Spanish 1b, section 2 <Elementary); English 30a <American Literature); Economics 39a, section 1 (Money & Bank- ing); Economics 43a, section 2 <Marketing); Social MAKE- UP TESTS Registration .for make-up tests to be given on Monday, Tuesday, January 5, 6 must be completed at the Office of the Registrar before five o'clock Tuesday, December 16. Students -must obtain at the Registrar's Office a slip to be signed by the instructor giving the course and return the sUp to the Office of the Registrar for the Dean's sig· n:ature. Students are required to pay a registra· tton fee of one dollar unless they present an excuse for· iHness from Dr. Clowe .or· were absent due to an authorized activity. Stadies lOa, section 1 C Logic & Scic ntific Method)· · Biology llb !Comparative Anatom;·); Biology 14~ !Invertebrate Zo0logy and Pamsitologyl; Chemistry 21a, section 2 iPhysicall; Geology 2a· <Engineering>; Mathematics lb, section 1 (Freshman Technical J; Math_ematics llb t Continuation of Math. llal; Math- ematics lld I Continuation of Math. 11cl; Math- ematics 21a, section 1 <Differential Equations); Psychology 24a, section 1 !Applied Psychology); Law lb !·Continuation of Law lal· Education 4b !Educational Psych. & General Pri~. of Teaching), 1 :3o-4:30 Psychology la (General); Psychology lla cPsych. of Personality and Adjustment>; H~at Engines. THURSDAY, JANUARY t5 8:30-11:30 Economics 46a (Advanced Accounting); Biology lb <General Biology); Physics 4a <General Physics) sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 11, 12-Gvm sections 6, 9, 10-E.E. 22; Physics 14a ! Topics. in General Physics). 1 :3()..4:30 German lOa < Intr0duction to the Classics)· Span- ish lOa <Spanish American Literature); Engl,ish 24b !The Victorian Eral; Economics Hb, section 2 !Ele- mentary.>: Economics 40a, section 2 !Accounting); Economrcs 45a <Public Finance); Government 48a <State & Local Govt. in Practice); Chemistry 12b !Org~nic>: Chemistry 22a !Physical); Geology 2b I Engmeermgl; Mathematics 21a, section 2 <Differ- ential Equations); Mathematics 3la c Calculus- Advanced); R.R. & Highway Surveying); E.E. 40b I O.O.E.I.l. FRIDAY, JANUARY 16 8:30-11:30 French 2a <Second Year Frenchl; German la t Elementary>; German 2a I Intermediate); Spanish la !Elem.entaryJ; Spanish 2a !Intermediate); E.E. 37a cSemmarl <7th Term). 1:30-4:30 Government 12a < Introd. to GovU; Geologv 21a. b !Mineralogy & Crystallography) Geol. Lab.; ·E.E. 1S !Elements of Elec. Engineering); E.E. 15 !Elements of Elec. Machinery); E.E. 2() <E. E. Lab.-Junior); Physics 31a <Vibratory Motion, Sound and Lightl. SATURDAY, JANUARY 17 8:30-11:30 English lla !Radio Writing & Production): Eng- lish 13a <Play Production); :Sociology 18a Clntroduc- tion to Social Organization l : Biology 56 I Botany); Chemistry lb <General); Chemistry lla, section 2 !B.S. in Chern.) <Quantitative Analysis); Geology 23a 1 Structural Geology); E. E. 43 Lab. !Senior Lab.l. 1:30-4:30 Economics lla (Elementary>; E.E. 29 <Theory- Junior): E.E. 37b !Seminar-8th Term). MONDAY, JANUARY 19 8:30-ll :30 Comparative Literature: French 11 <Conversa- tion); English 26a CChaucerl; Philosophy 17a. section 2 Cintro. to Philosophy); Government 44a <National Policy Formation); Economics 37a, section 2 C Pro b. of Labor & Ind. Management); S.S_ 50a cSocial & Political Philosophy); Chemistry 11 b I Quantitative Analysis); Chemistry 23a EAdvanced Organic); Chemistry 24a, b l Chemistry Literatu.rel ; Geolog\y la <General); Mathematics 22a tCont. of Mathemafics 12bl; Mathematics 25a <Theory of Equations & Algebraic Invariant>; Physics 25a 1 Prin. of Elec- tronics); Education 3!1 <History and Prin. of Educ.); E.E. 23, section 1 I E.E. Theory-Juniorl. 1:30-4:30 Chemistry la <General) sections 1, 5, 7, 8. 9, 10. 12 -Gym sections 2, 3, 6-E.E. 22; Chemistry 12a !Organic>. TUESDAY, JANUARY 20 8:30-11:30 French 2b, section 2 C Second Year French); German lb <Elementary); German 2b, section 2 Cintermediatel; Spanish 2b IIntennediatel; Italian la <Elementary>; English 2la c Shakespeare>; His- tory 32a C Social & Intellectual HisL of the U. S.l; Economics 40a, section 1 <Accoun tingl; S.S. 2Sa <American Constitutional Development); Biology 13a !Heredity); Chemistry 2a !B.S. in Cllemistryl <Gen- eral); Mathematics 12a, section 2 <Calculus); Physics 2la cHeat, Electricity, Magnetism I; Psychology lb IG-<meral Psychology>: Psychology 24a, section 2 <Applied Psychology); Concrete; Thermodynamics, sections 2, 31: E.E. 30 CE.E. Lab . .Junior); E.E. 42 !Communications); E.E. 34 CA.C. Machinery>. 1:30-4:30 Appreciation of Music; History 1a c History of Western Civilization) sections 3, 4. 5, 8--Gym sections 1, _2-E.E. 22 sections 6, 7-C.E. 106; History 1b !History of Western Civilization>; Mechanics lla <Analytical); Mechanics llb <Cont. of Mechanics llal. WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21 8:30-11:30 Greek la <Elementary); French lOa ( Fvench Literature); English lOb. section 2 1 Introd. to Eng- lish Lit.) ; English 20a C Mllton l; History 16a, section 1 CHist. of the U. S.l; History 20a !Medieval Europe 410-1485); History 25a <Modern Ne.val & Military History); Government 47a !Role of U. S. in World Politics); S.S. 41a <Governmental EcQnomic Polley).; Religion 62a <Comparative Religion); Biology 22a c General Physiology); Chemistry 21a. section 1 <Physical); Geology 16 <General); Physics 23a <Mat- ter and Radiation); Education 4a <Educational Psych. & Gen. Prin. of Teaching); Fluid Mechanics. I :30-4:30 Greek lla (Intermediate); French la !Elemen- tacyl; German 22a I German Literature from Ro- mantic to the Present); Spanish 11 <Conversation)· English lOb, section 1 (In trod. to English Lit.l ; Eng: llsh 30b <A:mer-ic~n Literature): History 27a ClSth & 19th Centur-y Engj!l:rJd); History :33a <History of the U. S. since 1865); Econo!llics llb, section 1 <Ele- mentary) ; Economics 38a, !lection 2 (Corporation Finance); Social Studies lOa, section 2 <Logic & Scientific ~ethod); S.S. 55a <Techniques & ~aeolog:y-l; Math~n;atrcs 12b (Cont. of l2a); ::Psychology 12a <Statistical Methods); Psychology 25b <Cultural An- thropology & Social Psych.); Thermodynamic~, sectron 1; E.E. 40a (O.O.E.I.l. THURsDAY, JANUARY 22 8:30-11:30 Biology 1a (General); Biology lla (Compamtive Anatomy}; E;E, 36 <Communications). FRIDAy, DEC. 12, 1947 The VORPAL BLADE by brillig Well. Well, children, Christmas ,••:~-------~-.\---------:---------------­ is just about here, and high time even an inspr.rmg thought, a·nd d.e- Bridge Club tG Enter too, by my way of thinking. There serves the serious COI!Sideration ·Of· is something about Christmastime everyone. As you know, there are Inte·rcol'legiate Tourney that improves the breed of m~n. three kinds of. unions. a) Labor. Spirit of friendship, perhaps-the· union. I won't go into that. b) The Union CoHege Bridge Club t ·me f ''ear when strang·et·s sav is rnaldng plans to enter· the 1948 I o J · ·• • Union College. Ar:d c), the union hullo to each other, and even the that might more aptly be termed a;· Natior:al Intercollegiate Bridge C:ull character in the room next recreation center. Th-is -last is the Tournament to be held in Chicago doot· is a pretty good joe. Or may- one We're talking about. AU set?' iil April. All students of the col- be it's the pr·ospect cf a big meal OK, then, the story: lege are elifible to enter the col- and a day spert with the right lege .play-offs to pick f0ur teams to people. You know-the folks back I happened to be walki·ng around represent the coHege in the r·e- home. Anyway, whatever it is the campus of the University of gional play-cffs, the winners of that makes it so, it's a darn good Syracuse last Sunday, and noticed which will fly to Chicago for the inf.luence, and I'm all for con- a big event seemed to be in prog-- finals, with aH e4penses paid. Ap- tinuing it, for this year at -least. ress. A g-reat crowd of peopl'e were plicatii'ms of teams must be given Christmas has undergone some streaming thru aJ'brand new build- either to Paul Bcyd, president of changes, tho, in the last couple ing, in the front door, out the back. the Bridge Club, who !i'ltes at the th 0 usand years. 1t isn't what it Thi-nking perhaps beers were being Sigma Phi Place, or to the Stad£nt used to be by a long shot. It has distributed, I jojned the line, and Activities Office, by January 10, acquired an odor 1 very faint, of soon found m¥self inside. Just 19.48, which is the first Saturday course) of commercialism. Yep, insi'de the door one of the better after the Christmas vacation. commercialism. If it isn't a little versions of the Syracuse Co-ed was The time and place for the col- brat back home that wants hi's busy greeting people and so forth, leg-e play-offs·, a daplicate tourna- big _ brother - what's - goir.g - to- saying \Welcome to Union\ to meLt sponsored by the Bridge Club college - in - Schenectady to buy each and every one. Not to be under the direction of Professor him a twelve thousand dollar bob- outdor:e in the matter of -greetings, Fox, will be announced after all sled, its a shopkeeper that wants I said \Welcome t0 Syracuse\. I applications are submitted. 'l'his YOU to buy a necktie to give to confused her. Then her eyes lit toumament will pick four teams your Uncle Orville !who hasn't even up and she said \No I mean wei- of two men who will then compete put you down in his will yet), so come to THE union, the student in the regional tournament on Feb. HE can buy HIS brat Buster a union.\ WeB, one thing led to an- 18, between 35 col.Jc ges in the New twelve thousand dollar bobsled. other, and before long I had the York, New Jet·sey at'ea. The win- And maybe you think he isn't go- inside story on Syracuse's union, ners of this regional are flown to ing to· buy that bobsled. Ha! Its which !'11 pass on to you, and a few Chicago to participate ir:, the finE!s the wise man that runs a store, ether c'etails which I won't. of the Intercollegiate Tcurnament, these pre-Christmas days. It seems that for thirty-five years held on the 23rd and 24th of April. Just for the fun of it, r wander- the Syracusians have been work- All their expeBses are paid for the ed thru the stores in my homet 0 wn ing tooth and nail for a student whole time, and the time taken a.t Thangskivingtime. For· those of union, and after thirty-four and a from classes is considered as ex- you who haven't done so, I can re- half years it was Ok'd, and last cused absence. port, gentlemen, that the war is Sunday was opening day. Turned There has always been a wic'e over. The shelves are loaded with out to be a nice place, too. Even interest in the to urn~ ment because nice stuff, and in plentiful quan- had a lunch car attached to the of the trip offered, and in 1946 two tity, but the prices are also loaded. rear of the building. Regular lunch Union students wcil the regior al Take shirts, fer instance. A good car; just like Ladd's, complete with for the area and went to New York four dclla:r shirt now goes for a streetcar roof and a nicltelvic. for the finals. seven. That's seventy beers in The rest ·Of the building was di- ---------------- Union currency. Seventy, gentle- vided into all kincs of rooms, rea.d- movement underfoot, there's just men. Is a shirt worth it? in!;' rooms, card rooms, meeting one last thing-r: o doubt you've all I understand there is P small rooms pingpong rooms, dance floor, noticed the basketball ticket set-up, rn o v em en t afoot (a movement all sorts of stuff. And it was open and the ::;ly trick pulled by the de- which has been afoct, or under- . for the first time last Sunday. partment. No blocks. What is foot, for a goodly number of years,. ·Thirty-five years, and there it was, this, every man fer himself ot· the same way the movement to big as life. How's that for a something? abolish Chapel crec' its has been Christmas story, eh? Believe in T • hat s all for now, children. See afoot, cr undel'foot, for a goodly Santa Claus now? S'Tacusians do, t k $ • you nex wee , same p~ ge, same number of years) to set up a union betcha. paper. at Union. That's a noble thought, Now that we've trampled THAT -BRILLIG For Your Information I aUa Hat Awards All undergraduates who are entitled to the \aUa\ hat award are requested to report the size hat they require to the Office in the Gymnasium. Saturday Night Dance New Marking System ThP dan('P following thP Vermont basketball game this Saturday night will be held from 1o-1 A. M. in Halp HousP. The Union College Dance Band will provide the music directed by Art Agnello. The dam·e was arrangPd by the Social Committe!' of the Student Council. It will be a charity affair with contributions accepted. The grades for final exams will not be posted on the bulletin boards this January as they have been in the past. A student who is interested in obtaining his grades before they are mailed by the Dean's Office, should give a penny post card to his professor or put one between the covers of the blue book on his final exam. The new system will speed the receiving of marks by students who go home right after their last exam. I Latest ;:,~ Library I \War as I knew it\ by George S. Patton, Jr. Patton's ac- count of the campaigns of Africa, Sicily, and France with personal notes and baclt- ground. \Where I stand!\ by Harold E. THE UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE PRESENTS THE UNION COLLEGE 1948 ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR 12 tinted photos of familiar space for memos, plastic bind- campus scenes ing, sturdy paper Perfect for your constant use as a memento, or as X-mas gift On S~le Now $1.00 Stassen. Political testament of a major contender for the Republican nomination for president. Labor, communism housing and other problem~ are dealt with frankly. \The New Yorker book of war ;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~~;;;;~~g pieces\ by the New Yorker. The best of the stories and straight r~portorial articles published in the New Yorker. Several of Mollie Panter- Downes Letters from London are included. \F. D. R., his personal letters. E1r!y years.\ by Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Many pic- tures and facsimiles as well as the texts of letters up to the time of Roosevelt's marri- age. Duffy's Tavern \Archie\ For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 601 Union Street AUTO SERVICE NOTT RESTAURANT al'tld BAR • Right Outside Green Gate . WINES - UCj)UORS and BEER WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS fo~ :VATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens ~me! the Finest Gifts Ed Gardner, radio's famo~ts \4r.fhie\ on •·Duffy's Tat•ern,\ rfJfJOllHrltJnfh ~f!lll~IJ.fer Beer. \F'irw~t befJr I evf.Jr timPf!./' 1 ffiJ sflyp, We thinf, yo1~'1l qgrfJIJ u•itlt hlrn. Br1t sefJ for ym~r.~!Jlf. Try u glass of ScllaefiJr Beer roday. Corner $tqte and Cent:lr Sb. The F. & M. Schaefer Brewing I__ ~-~j Co., New Y or/i. ~=====-=..,__=----====:d FRIDAY, SkiT InN' A meet UnioB Co on Wed·n( tentative winter se: WilHam both ·of Schene: ta J.ng duties assisted b will act i for the te of 1939, w: activities sist the 1 WilHam ::: James Fe members 1 Team, anc structors. perience, team, as College Ot nectady vv eric Wyat ters Ski h coach, will able assist cess this s The ski· here at tl Thirties a1 team were College Ou was given the Depart Captain I.e~ Lack of i ed the effE renee in st net hockey three can' berths on t tion of mer rink can b( prcspective. skates. The sticll scheduled : open Janua a round 1 Hamilton, I at Clinton, Daily skat held on thE Alumni Gy1 .placed on one of thi present is which is a on a hocke• has also be' candidates the game. Several oJ high school and it is sti w We Int< A .. 'fhr PS- ARI )!» UNDER

e ago col- col- to t'e- of the Ap- ven of the 10, day co'l- _,na- all xms to ent, pril. the ken ex- two a! just all -up, de- is or See T FRIDA. Y, DEC. 12, 1947 ·Basket!ba:ll Opener Tomorrow Against Vermont ------------------------·~ Ski Team Preps for Season Debut l:n N Y 'Championship Meet at Turin A meeting of candidates for the~ Union College Sid Team was held years outstanding performer who· Jottings !Injuries Plague Cagers ___ _,. Who Makes Debut as Ga:rnet Mentor of N.istad on Wed-nesday, Nov. 19, t0 discuss· Volleyball Results tentative plans for the coming contributed much to the team by: thvough Dec. 10: winter season sport. .his excellent jumping. Other mem-· V@LLEYBALL INTRAMURALS • past week WilHam Senn and James Peel, .hers of last yeal's team who are; Eastevn League both of whom are residents of out for the team are Robert Alex- · Betas 15, 15, Alpha Delts 5, 1. Sch:ene: tac'y, will hardle the coach- ander, George Gould and John: B Phi 15, 15, Theta Delt 4, 8. American League Phi Dett 23, Betas 22. D Phi 28, D Chi 10. Kap Sig 53, Wildcats 21. Nite Owls 52, V-5 8. · Alpha Delt 35, Psi U 6. Betas 23, K N 19. Proba:ble Starters Q!re Pem.rick. Bartlettg Lennek, Roberts. and Ma·rkes, with Schultz And Grant Reserves a,t Forwa·rd and Guard Coach Pete Nistad's Garnet hoop-~------ .. ___ .. __ ------ ing duties of the ·t:eam, and wHl be Slack. Cand·idates who have signed',· assisted by Frederick Wyatt, who will act in '!•he adv·isory capacity for the team. THier Schugg, class of 1939, who has been active ln ski activities in the west, wilt! also as- sist the team as a coach. Both William Senn, class of 1941, and James Peel, class of 1942, were members of the Union College Ski Team, and both are qualified in- structors. These men have had ex- perience, in addition to the ski team, as members of the Union College Outing Club and the Sche- nectady Winter Sports Club. Fred- eric Wyatt, organizer of ·last win- ters Ski team and a·lso the team's coach, will be able to provide valu- able assistance to the team's suc- United League Basketball Schedule for coming up for the team are Albert An-. Chi Psi 15, 15, Sig Phi 4, 8. weel•: sters are all set for their opener Dick Roberts and Bob Ma!·J;;es agair:st Vermont at the Alumni complete the Garnet squad playing Gymnasium tomcrrow night at 8:30 guards. Rebel ts, 5' 9\ another for- p.m. Riddled by pre-season in- mer Mont PlEasant star, is one of juries and in view oi the fact that derson, John Keehan, Robert Kel-' Volleyball scheldule for coming I Dec 13 ley Jr., Glena Kane, Frederick: week: · · l.p.m.-D U-Theta Delt. 2p,m.-D Phi-Wildcats Comstock, John Younie, Daniel: Dec. 15 12:55-Psi U-Biack Fleet Robertson, Leonard Harris, George: 16 12:55--Sig Chi-Delta Chi Best, John Crowe, Stuart MiUer, 17 12:55--Aipha Delt-Phi Sig 3 p.m.-Sig Phi-Phi Sig Kap 4 p.m.-Phi Delt-D ·Chi the Catamounts will h 3 ve two the greatest playmakers evet· co play for the Garnet. Corning to games under theit· belts in~luding Union from Amsterdam, N. Y., a 72-41 victory over McGill Uni- Mar]{es a 5 • 1 o\ junior was one of versity, the Dutchmen will be the Unicn's tefensive mainstays last James Morton. Kap Dec.15 7 p.m.-K A-Black Fle€t Last year victories were scored: 18 12 :55-Black Fleet-Phi Gam 8 p.m.-Psi U-Kappa Sig 9 p.m.-Alpha Delt-Nite over Cortland, Hamilt0n, Hobart,,. Volleyball Standing tluough Dec. Owls Penn State, RPI, and Rochester, 10 : Dec. 16 while defeats were encountered· against Colgate, Cornell, St. Law- United League 7 p.m.-Chi Psi-Phi Gam 8 p.m.-Betas-Psi U rence, Syracuse and Toronto. Phi Sig De!t. .... . Won 2 Lost 0 9 p.m.-Ramblers-Old Gym Plans have been made for the· Chi Psi ......... . Ski Team to participate in the New Phi Gam ........ . York State Championship at Turin Dert u ... , .... , . 2 1 1 0 0 0 Basketball standings through Dec. 10.: cess this season. on Jan. 16-17, and the team will Psi u ..... , .... , . also compete in the ski meet of the Black Fleet ..... . 1 1 National League The ski team was first organized here at the college in the early Thirties and the function of the team were taken over by the Union College Outing Club. Recognizition was given to the team in 1940 by t.he Department of Athletics. Western Division of the Intercol- Kap Sig ......... . legiate Ski Union at St. Lawrence Sig Phi ........ , . 0 0 Chi Psi ......... . Won 1 1 on February 6-7. In the ISU Meet Kap AJ.pha .... , , . all colleges in New York State are invited and in addition to these the following Schools will compete in the Meet; Haverford, Penn State, University of Toronto, and Queens College from Kingston, Ontario. 0 0 Black Fleet .... . Phi Gam ....... . 4 2 2 2 Captain Arne Fretheim was last lcel:ess Hockey Practices Lack of ice has seriously hamper-~----------------------------­ ed the efforts of Coach Art Law- rence in shaping up the first Gar- net hockey team since 1942. Thirty- three candidates are vyir:g for berths on the squad, but the selec- tion cf men is impossible until the rink can be frozen over so that the prcspectives may be viewed on skates. The sticl{men have five contests scheduled so far, and are due to open January 1 as partlcipan ts in a round robin tournament with Hamilten, Middlebury, ar.d Lehigh at Clinton, N. Y. Daily skateless sessions have been held on the handball court of the Alumni G:,-m. Emphasis has been .placed on developing shots, and one of the biggest problems at present is to fill the goalie post, which is a verr important position on a hockey squad. Skull practice has also been held to acquaint the candidates witt\ the technique of the game. Several of the men out have had high school experience in hoc!{ey, and it is still too early to pick out ~ any standouts among the candi- dates. However, Coach Lawrence expects Phil Brady of Buffalo, N. Y., Rufus Burlingame of Altamont, Joe Bellan of Springfield, Mass., and Joe Young of Bayshore, L. I., to show up well on the ice. The other men vying for positions are Hubert Titus, Bob Wisner, Arling- ton Persor.eus, Hal Lundstrom, Dick Raymond, Doug Everett, Nick Boink, Phil Ames, John Miller, Alonzo Paige, Bob Garlock, Bob Hoose, John Vesty, Hart Vesty, Carl Byron, Dick Geyer, Henry Ro- barge, Verne Kuney, Bob Knecht. Jim Kenney, Joe Paskous, Bill Standen, John Hall, Bill Herrman, Dave Demarest, Mort Silverman, Dermot Demis, Cliff McGlone, and Allin Ladd. The per:ding season schedule is as follows: Jan. 1-Round robin tournament at Clinton. Jan. 10-Williams. Jan. 24-Hamilton. Jan. 29--Middlebury. Feb. 7--Champlain. WHAT IS A\THRIFTY\? WELL ••• We .made an adjective Into a uoun, that's all, A \thrifty\ is a person who looks for Three in~.rcdients In every clothing purchase: J, Styl~--good looks, comfort, fit. 2. Qltality~finq fabt·ics, fine workmanship. 3. Value--your money's worth and more. It means a person who buys Arrow products. PS- You'll always get a good deal at your Arrow dealer's. !4\ ARR·OW SHIRTS ancl TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS Eastern League Sig Chi ......... . Betas ........... . Delt Phi ........ . Kappa Nu ....... . Phi Sig Kap ..... . Delta Chi ....... . Phi Delts ....... . Theta Delt ...... . Alpha Delt ..... . Won 2 2 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 Basketball Results past throu,gh Dec, 10: National League Sig Chi 27, Old Gym 17. Black Fleet 22, D U 16. Theta Delt 20, Sig Phi 18. Lost 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 2 week Phi Gam 35, Phi Slg Delt 25. K A 19, Phi Sig Kap 6. Chi Psi 30, Old Gym 11. Sig Chi 31, Ramblers 22. 3 Sig Chi ......... . 3 Delta U ......... . 2 Phi Sig Delt. .... . 2 Old Gym ........ . 2 Theta Delt ..... . 1 Kap Alpha ..... . 1 Ramblers ....... . 1 Sig Phi ......... . 0 Phi Sig Rap ..... . 0 American League Won Alpha Dett ..... . 3 Betas ........... . 3 Nite Owls ....... . 3 Kappa Nu ......•. 3 Phi Delt ........ . 2 Delt Phi ........ . 2 Kap Sig ......... . 2 Delta Chi ....... . 1 Wildcats , , ...... . 0 Psi U ....... ,, .. . 0 V-5 ............. . 0 Jacob•s Pharmacy No Finer Place to Eat Try l:Js On Your Next Date * Corner Nott and Carrie Pipe Headquarters Chdstmas Gifts for Her and Other Members of the Family. PELOP'S 438 STATE ST. I. J~ LINSEY '22 Prop. (Near Proctor's) Do you buy $50 shirts? $35 neckties? • , , if so-read n.o .further BUT •• , If you are a veteran- on a G.I. budget •• • if you don't light your cigars with five dollar bills • , • If you want VALUE, QUALITY and AMERICA'S FAVORITE COLLEGE STYLES ••• Shirts • • • • • • • • • • . from $3.25 Ties .•• , •• , .••. , '' 1.00 SbortJ' ..•••.•• , , 1.00 Undershirts ..•• , , .85 Spotts sbirts ..• , • e \ 4.25 Handkercbiefs • • • • \ .35 NUSBAUM~§ --IJR!lOW SHIRTS AND TIES-- Lost 0 0 1 2 1 2 2 2 3 3 2 3 Lost 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 3 3 4 underdogs as they go into their · year. . initial action under the backboards tomorrow night. To bolster the regular squad, Coach Nistad has enlisted the serv- Beset by mishaps that haye cost ices of Jim Schultz, 6' 2\ srphomore, them the services of Bill O'Neil, who will alternate at forwatd with 6' 3\ former Mont Pleasant star Lennck and Bat·tlett. Bill Grant, and captain of the Garnet squac 5' 11\ sophomore, will alternate at last season, who will be out of ac- guard with Markes and Roberts. tion indefinitely because of back This is Coach Nistad's first :,-ear injut·ies, Ed Henk, who played. var- with the Garnet r•egulars. Last sity bail for Holy Cross in the yeat· Nistad ha:ndled the Garnet 1944-45 season and was a regular jayvees for a short time. Very forward for the Dutchmen last pleased with the mental attitude of year and is now suffering from his charges in the face of so many a severely sprained ankle and Tim bad breaks, Cogch Nistad is very Shea, 6' 6\ leading reserve who has hopeful for a more successful sea- a severe case of blistered feet, the son than the pre-season \dope\ Dutchmen will be laboring under woul-d indicate. a definite handicap as the season begins. In addition, Chuck Emmi, In preparation for tori:wrrow's key guard on last year's jayvee contest the Garnet has had scrim- squad is just recovering from a mage Fames with the Albany broken thumb and Jim Pemerick, School of Pharmacy and with Garnet captain, is still slightly Sienna College. hampered by a partial foot sprain. Tomorrow's tilt will be the ninth Bogged down by such continued in the Union-Vermcnt series. Of bad luck, Coach Nistad has announ- the first eight games Union has ced the following st~rters to cpen won seven and Vermont one. To- the 1947-48 basketball season for m01Tow nig-ht will mark the re- Union. opening of the series which was discontinued in 1935 when the The Dutchmen will be captained Dutchmen will play host to Wil- by Jim Pemrlck, 6' 1\ junior, who Iiams at the State Armory on Wed- will be in at center for the Garnet. nesday night, December 17. Re- It was Pemrick who received hon- turning to the Alumni Gym next arable menticn on last year's Up- Friday night, December 19, the State Collegiate All-Star squad. Garnet will greet St. Lawrence. While playing ball for LaSalle of Following these first three home Troy, Pemrick made the All-Albany games the Garnet will go on the squad. road. In at forward for the Garn·et is ---------------------------- Bob Bartlett, 6' 1\ junior, who is La·I'l'ahee to Speak returning to the Union squad after a year's absence. Bartlett last play- ed for the Dutchmen in the 1945-46 season. Ably assisting Bartlett at the other forward spot is Dave Lennek. Coming from Lansing- burg High School in Troy where he was a three letter man, Lenneck a 6' 1\ junior was high scorer for the Garnet jayvees last seas-en. At next week's meeting of the Physics Society, to be held in the Pl::ysics Le~ture Room, PI. L. 202 on Tuesday evening, December 16, Pro- fessor Harold Larrabe-e will speak on the subject \Science and Philoso- phy, or, Physics and Metaphysi.cs.\ All students interested in this topic are urged to attend. BUS TRAVEL MADE MORE REFRESHING BY STOP FOR COKE PI.EA.SE retum empty boftles promptly BOmED UNDER AUTHORITY Of TilE COCA-COLA COMPANY BV SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. Q 1947, The Coca-Cola Company /

4 FRIDAY, 'DEC. 12, P147 IAVC Mee:ting Election 1 Campus Chest Clubs, Societies Activ_ e. ··.I·. TITDTT.C to f'fo,ver. !Continued fro_m P_a,gel.) _ 1 \Lists Results tior.a:cg~~~;u:~ef:~~o:i:~\!)their f't' .Ill V • {.,;I 1 d Its fot Wed • slog-an, \Ci-tizens First; Vctemns I L tu es New . Plans TT ont Game ~~d~,~- a~~g~~~··,~t~ ~~1. ~n <'f·~llrt' tContinued f.rom P~ge}l. n Second\ wHh the idea tha·t if the • n e c r . ' · . . : · f' erm . · • . · · was made to formulate plans and• eastern rim of the Medttenar.ea ~ the opportun-i'ty fct· all to get jobs 'policies with the aid ·of the dl'f~:t- There are now morethan·n 5~~ 0 ~.:!~e grou-ps can, in some way, promote Pho . to C·l·U·b • - -- --- at! C''Jndt'<I\Jtt's so that a mut-t• unttecl dents and 40,000 alum 1 and· maintain a high standard of Continuing its series <>f detnun- strations and lectures. the Union Col,lege Photographic Soeiety will conduct a print clinic on Monday, December 8, in the Civil EnP;ineer- ing library at 7:30 p.m. Members. \ho took photographs n t the So- ciety's last demonstration, will have their prints criticized and judged by all members prt•spnt. The pro- gram eommittel', t.wadPd by Boh Heinemann, is attempting to in- t<>rest beginners in photogt·aphy by presenting programs that will cover the basic elements of plwtograph1e techniquP. Construction of thP Socit•ty's new darkroom in the haspment of Silli- man Hall wi'll begin shortly. Equip- ment wil hP purchaspd with fundH supplied by thp StudPnt Tax Com- mittel·. T!w Sut'tl'ty has bl•t•n u'tn!-! tht' physiPs dn rkn>om temporarily. in order to carry out Its demonstt a- lions. Boh :>:avtas t~ pt c,.;ident of thP organization. 0 -- German Society Initiates 11 Men Last \\'ednesday thP n cently resuscitatl'd Beta Theta Chaplet· of the National Gt-1n1an Hont'tary Frat••rnity ]lpJta Phi Alpha initiat- t•d tht• following studt•nts tnto tts rank~ Pn•\cott L. Rtown. Carl Byron, Edward Chmidewsl<i. Wil- li3m C'onldin. Et'ward Dahlstcdt. Wtlliam Gabb. Lt•sltP (>Iay. Robt'l't HoosP. Rt bPrt LawrenPP. Rnymond :\!cCoy. John C. Pcole. Professors \\'l'inbergl'r and Hie!<:; of the GPtman staff of thP :\ludt•tn Language Faculty were made vot- ing members of the chapter. Pt.ufessurs Stlber and Fa11ell were made hor.m·ary members of th~ frat<'rnity. The initiation ceremonies were followed by an illuminating discus- sicm on semantics in pat ticular and philology in grnPt'al lPd by Pro- Pre-Med Society h . hi' ht ' < ' ... h · 1·1 • l'e non-sec- · 1 ·n . Here are tiOllle of the tg· · tg 8 prugt•am can bP pffectPd by t PcoUrges. The co eges a unds , 1 _ 0 _ .living, the Amertcan peop c WI\ ·. from \VRUC's broadcast schedule r!PC:ted officPI'~. .. ' t.ll'ian. and ~perate ~n f . ·inco~es benefit as a whol'e. ThE> Union Co lege Pre-Medical for the coming week. Tonight at It was dPcided at this meetmg · vided ·by t ultwns. fees.$~~~ 00 000 is Society was addressed by Dr. Hes- 8:30 the campus station will hr·oad- that thl'te would· be a general from end.ovn;nents. ,' . .' ~n four Hn, consulting Urologist at Albany . , !<' ·pshmPn class meeting on Mon- being sought tn a campatgn , 'ld- · It was also ·em·phasized that each ChaptN's Autonomous f f U log~· cast the ShubPrt Club concert brtng 1 • -D ·b,. 15 at noon in Old ·cor tinents to provtde for the bUt cl 1 apter is autonomous a_ n_·d not re- Hospital and Pro essor o ro .J 1 da;,, ecrm ct f . d ~ t take care cf the 1 f th at Albany MPdlcal Collrc>ge, at thetr held in the Memorial Chape' · · Chapel This meeting will be ·or. ing- nrc e\' o · tl c 1 _ quired te foJ:low the ·po.tct~s o _e H · · 1 - f r' h · ater dt>mand at tese 0 t' 1 tgarnzattor. Thts mt>eting on Decernber 9. Dr .. ·es- C0ntinuing its c<.JVPrngP of cam-~ thL' put J-ose uf ptes..': tmg ~an> .o . lllUC ~te - ' d t supjl.le- state or na wna o. . . . .. . - ltn discussed the requirements for pus sports WRUC will carry the various activi.ties that w-il'l· requ 1 tr~ lege~ sthnce t_he \'trt::~hin~ ,;taf.f. , was illustrated by ·the fact that the the life of a doctor. both physical · . tl\ votl' of th<' clns~ twf< t'<' t W), mrnt t e pt escn . F d N. Y. State Chapter of the AVC h . 1· t fkst lm:skrtball g,· mt• tht,; seaeon 1 . ff, t d. T·he pt•oncsals in-· The World Student ServiCe _un · opposed· the N. Y. Sta·te Btmus hill and mPntal. and warrl£'d ts ·ts en- . Tl at<' e tc e ' ,. . . . t'. of Amencan el ·~ t<J considPr carefully before dit·ect from the A!lumm Gym. w! 1 · . 1 l Whl'lher or not the class· is a ·t·ellef mg-anna ton d on the· gt·ounds ·that the mo~ey ~ . . c Ul c d 1 ,, co liege students an d f housmg tht>y committed themselve,; to a station is now makmg a•vrange- · dl•sire,; exchange or date · anc<'s. ,;chao an.. . . ·tu- could be bettet· use or · · career for \\·hich they were un- ·t, to broadcast all the hl'lm<': o(. but h. 2l ~it>thod for f:ln,ancing, professors fer as~r~ta~ce 0 t~ ~ni- and that the ·bil-l taxed .the ~-oney suited. nwr. 5 . . . , .,t! thc>se dam·t·~. 3> Tht> fpastbtl·tty of: dents and pt·of.cs:sots tn 1 ·rig.ht back. However•. indtvtd':al games tncludtng those pla)t:d < I a. Ft·.'shnccn sports pr< gt·zm stn:l't-. Vt'rsities of war-dev_ ast~ted, coun~ chapters. not in accordance wtt-h the armory. in·· in thr Spring that would gtvc tries. Mon£>tary gr:a·nb. ~cholatd this view. went on rccot·d in favor On Sunday thP c<llegc station· all J<in•n:shmt•n an- uppcrtunity tu ships, clothing, medical -~·.cltef a~f- of the b'i'U. Philosophy Club The Philosophy Club held a heat- ed discussion in Bailey Hall on \'l.',.dnt''uav night. Dl'cemher· 10. After a ~hot·t business me-eting, Br·ut·e Wallacl' opent•d the discus- ~ion hv t'OillJHt>ntin~ on Dr. LalTa- i,ep's ialk on Existentialism which wa:-; given the week prev.i~us. Plans w<>rc madP fot· tht• Spnng- term as this was thP fin·al meeting of the Club this term. FRENCH CLEANERS and DYERS 129 JAY STREET _will again broa.(cast the Annuatf pat ti~·ipfltt'. 4l Th<' establishment care, bcoks. study matettal~, se _ The main \im of the chapter at Carol Sing from bP~inning to end. I o! a t'ar l'Parhing committE'<' sys- 'hPlp as,istanct•. for cocprtattve en Union Ccllege is to stimulate intet·- Next Friday at 4:15 vVHlJC tn tern that will ptnvidP an oppor- tf'rpris<'s are gtven. est in national and international conjunction wit~ statior; \\'ROW tunity for efft·<:ti_vr aet~on in _ca~·?·-~ o affai-rs :by sponstJI,ing speakers and will prP:srnt a ftft.PPn nunut-P pto- in;: out aU Hl'ltvttiPs. L>l Reac.tt\,1-: Cl b I discus,;ions at meetings whtch ·are gram dit·ect from the Ur .ton Col- til n of Fnshnwn·Sophornt·rP nval- · N.ew·man· · • ·U - ·open to all interested .parties. l<•gp campus. Th:s is tlw t·htt u_ t.n ' 11 _ .. tu;:-of-wa 1. PIC. 61 P:rmtsston. 3 h I 1 h AVC will b I F' 1 0 \\' ,, ne~d·a'· Dl·CPmbet· . t c.· The nt>xt m£>£>ttnf o t e ' a Sl'ries of fiv<' broadcasts Ptng has bPt•n gt :tntt•d fc-11· a It's· llllPn n e ~ _,. 1 1 , d 't 1 th t · . . Cl ·b · ·f Union College. be hE'ld rt 7:30 p,m, on · ucs ay, given by cclleges in the capt 11 1 >\rC'tion nt basl<rtba:!l gamE's a NPwman u c . . ·I Derember 16, in Old Chapel. At area over the Albany station. The wi·ll I'L'quir<' the united effol'ls of was ad'd·tPs~ed by the H'rv. FtanC'ts. this time a repor.t on .the cocpera- program will be announced ami the das:<. Dttffy. ProfPssnt· cf SarrPd :'kl'ip- 1 tive ·slote wHI be presented and produced by Union College students Th,.,,. at,· v.~rious utht•t ptop<sab tute at St. Ant-hor'·'s Seminary in \1 till' membt::rs \.·ill pla.n programs and dir,..cted b~· :\lr. B. C. Hubbtns, t·h·.>t will bP discuss<·d and methods, J ' for future meet mgs. the station adviser. of furthl'r aC'tion decided upcn. Renssdaer. FERRo·s RESTAURANT r---------------------lj I ACME BARBER ! ! GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Good Food & Beverages _ 1: We Need Your Head !, ~ .-_ 'l/~' Serving Union Since '1911 1 In Our Business I tl!l , o. ~.(;\'!(\~ • \Reliable Service\ • Phone 6-4295 i SHOP I i I'J£ 1 PHONE •-•ss• ! so• UNION sTREET I ~\}\\Rl f~ \:l(w~L'r'n~ I lf. , I • Patton & Hall \Jl\. 01/ze JAY ST.J nl U\J .II ~ 1 A Place Where : X-RA\ FITTING ~~~ 166 Jay Street II I Union Men Meet I .. 1Jk=1=1=1 S=B=A=R=R=ET=T=S=T=R=I:=E=T=:::..! !__-----------------:~:.:-! i·u =245==ST=AT=E=S=T=.-S=in=ce=1=89=3:=;.1_ fessor \\'einbet·gpr·. Prdessot· Hart-\!.._ _____________ _.: wig conductf'd th•· nwding tn ht;; I capacity ns ad\·i:-;Pr to thP C'haptPr. I o\'!!!~~~~~~~=======:i Phil Englebardt Liquor Store 519 UNION STREET Between Barrett & Jay Streets Phone 3-311 0 FOR YOUR CHRISTMAS GIFT SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4·5676 114 STATE Near FERRY I I I i ' ! ,. ! ! I ' MILK Vitamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE 6-2351 GUERRA'S PHARMACY Fountain Prescriptions Sundries 600 Union St. Cor. Barrett St. - COLONIAL ICE CREAM CO. Ice Cream at Its Best I 134 Mohawk Avenue Scotia I - -=======P=h=on=e==6.=344=3======:===::.!' i I I GAZETTE PRESS Printers ' ' -- - ~ -- -- -2 - -:~~ - The U. S. Air Force offers you ~3(1 1111/M'!h one year after graduation Tn n·\s what ~·uu t·an l'arn aftPr t·omplt•tin~ one yt>ar of pilnt traininl! and wiwmin!! ~our wing,_; in the Air Fun't'. It is a ~nod dt•al frum tlu• ,.tart. Whilt• ~ou\rp an .. h iation ( :,uJt•t you draw 87:> IH'r month. p)w; foot!. cpwriPr,;. uniform~. nwdil'al ancl dc·utal c·arf'. Aftt·r ><llt'l't•,.,fully fi,ni~IJinl! tht• ('tllll'!-t'. ~·o11 are ('OIIIHJi,,.jorwd a si'I'Uild Lic·utc·nant. Air Fone nf'~l'r\ 1'. atul <l\-•ignc•cl to m·ti \t' clut:y with the .\ir Fort'!' at s:no a IIIOIIth ( in..Juclin:.; flij!ht pay), with f'Xt'·ellc·nt dwru•p, fur furlhl'r irH'l't'll:-oc·, as pronto! io 11~ c·um t' I lrrou r;lt. fn adclitiun. yun l!t'l an ntra S:-i0() fur t•ach yt>ar uf lll'li\ t' cluty. ancl will l11• {-!:i\t'll a dwmc to c'OIIlJWII' for ll t·ormni-.ion 111 tltt• l~t'!!lrlar :\ir Furc·p if you art· intt-n·,.tetl rn a !ool'f\ it't' l'arcer, Tlti;; oppurtunity. wltid1 c·a11rwt J,,, tluplit·att'<l an~wht•t't' t·l~t· at an~ pric·,·. c·quip- IIH\II fur wc>ll- paicl. rP>'JHIIl,.ihlt• po,ititllb tltru11;,:lmut tltc• adu- tinn indu,.tn. at lti~lt pay from tiH· lll'girming. It is open to ~-ou if you\rf' !'inl!l«'. hf'twt'PH 20 and 26l!z yt•ar,., ole!. <uHI ha\ e eompll'tc'd al ll'a\t OIH'· half tht' rt'IJIIirt'flH'IIts for a tlq!rt't' frum an at'l'rt•tlitt•tl f'nllq;t' or tlltiH'r><ity (or pa\s an t>xarni· nation nwa,uring tiH' t'IJIIi\alt'JJt ). A,.k for dPtai), at your l'. ~- Arm~ ancl l·. S. Air Forc·p Reeruiting Station. or write to Ht•adtptarterl', U.S. Air Fort't'. Attc•11tion: Aviation Culet Set\tiun. Wa><hington 2:>, D. C U. S. ARMY AND U. S. AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERUIC~ N 0 T E: If you WPrP awaitin~t a~•il!nment m· taking !raining wlwn lhP ,\\iation (:adt·l Jlrtlllram wa• <'UI bark in 19·H-1-5, you <\an 1'1\-•Jualif~- •imt•lJ by pa.,ing thl' ph~ •il'al <'Xnntinatiun. J>rmid•·•l H>U \\'\' lht· ulht·r rt·quirt•nll'nt• Ji,lt•d aho,t•. \\'rif, .. for infnrmation In llt·adt)um·h·r•, L. S. Air l.\orr<• Atl .. n· lion: A•iation Cadet Section, Wa,hington 23, B. (;, CAk~iRs wirliAFVfiJJl~· u. S, Army)illcl ·.u .. s-.-Air'Force VOL. 70, B .. . .. Su Sub-fres will be \\ College Fe 22, ac.cordi Ripton, D sions,. who fraternity men in pi sub·freshrr To About 140 attend the which will years, ,visits athletic cor. campus bui Union baske ary 21 will tential und· for the Gar1 The frat! lodg·ings fo a,nd will ente ' Ripton Mr. Ripto tern'ity ch~ir noon to disc1 for the weei the fra.terni invite perso to their holi: pressions he visit to a:p El1glaild se< schools were of encourag: for admissio• tioned, howe· schools i.n Jl direct their \Big. Three\· Yale) as we England col11 It is hopE Delphic. Socit with the A yield more pc will g-ive Uni• tion fro adjn During the Mr. Ripton s suggestions how· the adv be placed bel schools. Defij In Tt The report Committee -w moria! Chape the· study bj chairman of report showe tee was oper breakdown of showed that the number o by the comr. in scope of the present r ized expendit come for thiE of $2,546.48. The chairm mitee revea-Iec rived by a ta triculating of income from by the Studer sports events: dil.nce and th• oh the sale • Including the of Freshman the sale of ad Union period! eordien:3is, Id vertis~ments .piaybill ancl t the reverse s the prod.uctio tickets to the derived by pz given in oth Glee Club anci ditions to the ell :Fund and Tota:i income itiaS amount. $14,262.05. Th elude the Ca: IF'C Fund wl 20Z.;t0, not a.:v$ tee· for use in

4 FRIDAY, DEC. 12, 1947 1 I Campus Chest • A VC Meeting c 1 u b s, s 0 ci e ties Active ! I WR uc to Cover El~~~~~~'\'\\' p,, \ . : Lists Results \\'.:c,~~~~·:~e'::: .. :,:~· ,:' ..... I L N P l in\ .,f ,,11 lilt• l'll·lldt• at• o for \\ Pd-1 p 1) ' ~logan. \CitiZPns F<'k~t; VNC't·ans n e C t U reS e W anS I TT . f Game n,:,,,..\' m~ht at ·' \m. An •·ift>Jt I CuntinH<'d from age , I St•cond\ wHh th<' i<lea that if the . ' . . ' rermo·n ' \\'!;, t;Jadt: to ftll!llll'latt• ]•!Inns and C'l·~ll·Jn ti•m (·Jf thP M·Pdit<:l'J'a.r<:an., the opp~rtunity fer n.J.l to get jobs , polll'i<•o wtt.ll t Iw aid ·of t.ht> dt>f<' t- TIH'I'l' nn· now m<>n' tha~ 0 • 000 stu~ gi'Oups can, in ,;orne way, p·romotc Phoh) Ch1b -.----.'! •·d ra.ndidat.t·s \''that a nw1·•· unttt>d clrn,ts and 40.000 alumm of the~<' and maintain a hi·gh standard of Continuing it~ St>l'iPs of dPmun-1 Pre-Med Society Hen• an· ,.;omp of the lughhghts, pt. g1 am can bt· dft·ct ... d by thP e<·Jl•i<'g\'- TIH• colleges m·e 110 _n-sec·' ]i 1 ·ing, thr American people wi:Jl sttations nnd lt>C'tllrl's, tlw Cnion ftom \\'RL'C's bnmdcast scht•dul<>, rlt·rlPtl pffit'<'l·s. ta.J·ian and Ofll't'ate en funds p!o· bPnefit as a whole. C<·JI'it•g<> !'hotogntphic :;\ul'iPty will The l'niun Culeg<' Pre-:.ledical for tlw coming wt·t•lc Tumght at, It wa.s dt·c•idt•d at thio mrl'ting vilh•d by tui·tiuns, fpes, and tneome~ _ coHdUC'I a print clink on :\!·onday. :lol'il'tV was addt'l'S:-<t'd by Dr. Ht•s- 8·3'·' lll<' c·an1pUs station will broad-' that tlwt t' \\'<•Uhl bt• a !!<'nl'l'al fn>m CBdown.lents ... $15,000,000f ts ·Chapf('J!S Autonomous I . · It· l' I · t t Al·b·tt'\' · \ ' · '1 · - , h · n1JJa!g·n on ota . Dt•t•t•mhpr 11, in tlw Ci\'il Ehginen· Ill, c•onsu mg 10 ogts a. .. '' '· 1 \'l b t Cl b tlC'L't·t bPin<> Fn•ohml'n l'la~s .nwl'ttng on \on· bPtng soug t m a ca ,., b 'ld It was also ·emphastzed that each b H ·pt't 1 tnd l't'tlfns·sol· of Uroll>\\' cast t ll' ., 1U l'l' U · co · · \ · Oil · t. to pt'<J\!.ll'l' fnr t•·•l' 111 • d ing lilH·aJ-y at 7:30 p.nt. :\h•m prs. o~ a ' · · · c.· · \'· . d;,\·, l1Pt'<\llllll'J !:> a:t noun tn ' corlmt•n ~ · ' h cha.ptet· is au-tcnomous an . not rr- \'ho touk photogmph\ a.t the So- at Aibmw :.t .. dical College, at thl'ir hL'Id i·n thr lMPnwnal CIJappJ. Ch.:qu•l. This ll!Pl'll•ng Will bt• .for ing ti<Pded ~o take care cf t. e, <·Uin·d tn foilow the policiPs of the ciNv's last dnnonstrati<>n. will have> ntl'Pting 'on DP<'L•llli>Pt' 9. Dr. Hes· Cl'ntinuing ].t,:; co\'t•mgt• of cam- tlw flU!]\\'' <>f J>:'t•H·:ting l;lans fell Jnuch grt•atl't· U<'lltand at thl'se cull·' ~t'lt.P ot· national nrgar::ti:zatio·r. This • 1 · l 1 htl d!s<·u~s,·d tht• tt'<J.Utn·nll'nto fell' . 1 · · · tl t ··11 1 'IllitP 1 .. · • the w·tr at:d tLJ. supp P·1' ' f \ t th tl·l<'ir pnnt> \' itil'izt·d an< JUt gt•t pU>' spDt·ts \\'HL'C w11l L any I w vanuu:< al'll\'lllt•:< '\' \I \ <'l.!t'\ :<me< ' . _ .. .ff 1 wa>' iUustrated hy the act (,.,a e hv all lllPIHil('l'S Pl'<'>'<'llt Tlw PID· thl' lift• uf a duelol'. both physil'a.J f'.·st lmsltrtbaH \lllt• this ~\\\\B' tlw VtJt•t' llf tlw d«>> l>l'fttt· tht•Y llll'lll thP pl'<'Sl'nl tl'achl·~.\ ,\~:l .d I:'>;, Y. State Chaplet· of the AVC g;·am ''\mmiH<'P. lw:tdt•d hy Ht>h and ntPntal. and ,,·at ned his ltstPn· u. . ,.. . . '. . • an• l't't't t't<•d. Tltt> pn>;>t sa.ls 111· Tht> Wntl'd St~Hlrnt Set \!Ct .. un <·Jppo::;ed the N. Y. State Bonus bi>J:l Hc>inpmann. is a.ttPmpting to in- t•rs to con>'tciPl' C'an•fHily beflll'l' d!l'PC't from tht• Alunnu (,~m. Tht l'illt·, •. II \\'h<'lh<'t· \' nOJt tlw elass is a rl'liC'f oJganizntt<m of Anwncan un tlw g·rouncl:.< that the monry ll'!Pst b!'ginnt•rs in ph<>togwphy by tht'\' eommittc•d tlwmsl'l\'t's to a station io Dtl\1' n:aking '\t angt•· dt•oi•IP>' t·Xehangt• \' dah• dane<•s. ~ehuol and Cl'l'lrge. students ~nd cou·ld bP hf'ltPt' used for housi·nf'; P J·t·s 1 •ntil'!g p1·ugram~ that will co\'PI rat ~·er fen· \hic-h tlll'y wert' un- HlPr.ts to b 1 ·uad<'a>t aU tl11• hom<' LJI. b<>th. 2• :.1dlwd fo1 finu.nemg pnlft·s~tn·s ft r asst>'la~r<' t.o st~ •llld that thP biU taxPd the mol'!t•y 't d 3 Tl f · ··b'lit · f 1 d 1 fessurs J·r. tlw um· ' · · · 1 tl:p baok t•IPlllt>nts t>f JliH>tLJ~taphit' >Ut \ . garnt•s including thust• playt'd at th<'~C' dan<'<·,. ' H' \\'' I·.~ u tl'nts nn p \ . . . . ' . ri<>l>t back. Howt'Vet·, mdtvtdua trehnhl'Ut•. 1 b a. F'Il~hn_t•n :--opmt~ pl.~~- Ill :--ta_tt- Vt>_I8itiP~ of war-dt>va~tatec. r~un.- cl~liJtPt'fi, not in acconiance \Vith Philosophy(' U th•· utmoty. inc in th<' ~J>ttn~ th:It would gl\'1' li'I<'S. :.ronPtaJ·~ J..!'···anto, s_<'lH>laJ.- t\··t'. ,. 1 ·n ... \'\Ill on 1 ·eco.rd in favor Un Sunday th<> ,., 1'1<',>.:<' sta.tJon all Flt·nshml'n an \'I' I\' tu.nity I•·' :<hi•ps, cl'othing, me tC'a '.·.t 'll' o - ,.,f t'le .br'l!l. darkroom In tlH• haol'l!tt•nt of SJ!Ii- Tht• l'llllOSt>]lh,\' Club lwld a hPat- . I \ I t I· snJf- l Con!\tiUl\tionottht>Sill'h•ty'snt•\v · d 1 1 fondl u:s cvy,n .... will again bro::<cast t w 'nnua· pa!ti. ipat•·- 11 Th•· .. sta.blt,.,hnwnt PHI<', bLoks. stud-y rna rtta ~· ' ..... ·. f th, chaptet· at man Hall will lwgin shortly. Equip- t>d disC'l!s>'!on in Bail .. y Hall on Carol Sing from brginnin~ to t•nd o:' a fnl Jt·:!t·hing c·otnmiHt•t· \Y\-. h<'l' •tssist•tnet> fell· cocpt'nttn·p t•n· ThC' llldHl 'un o :' . mrnt \\'il ht• purdt<>s>·el with fund<' \\'Pdn<•,.tl:t.\' night. DP<'Plllht>r 10. .\'t·xt L' 11 . , 1 ,. 11 . ,. 11 , . 1 .-, \\'l'l''' 1 · 11 l · .. · ' . 1 Union CclilPge is to stm1·ll'late Jn.tPJ'· ...... ~- r \t \. '-- tt>m that will p1 uvuiP an ·oppo1·-. tt\ll'pt·i~t'R FliT' gtven. . 1 supph<'u hy tlw ~tudt·nt Tax Com- Aftl'l' a ~lwl't busin<•ss llll'eting. <'l·lnJ.lln<'tJ·,, 11 ,·,·,til .\!' \\'HO\\' . . I t>:<t in national and intcrnattona lni.ttPl'. Tht> ~H('lt>ty hH~ bt•t•n u:-;ing BI Un• \\\all<Ll\l' UlJl'Jlt•d tht.> di~t·u::;- u•t'll ptt>«,'tll\ fl ft'ft\<'ll lllinUtt> JllO- ' . ' .\JI r> •• ,.,,.tt'\','1- affails by sponsnring ~rNtkCIH an ~ tUtlltVfl,ll'fft•L'ti\\PilltiOhlrlCHI\lY-: U d tht> ph;·sies d·:Jrktoom lt•mporaJ'J y. s!lln b\ •·onlmt·ntmg \n Dr Lal'l'a- gram dil<'<'t frllnt tiH• l'r wn l'ol- IH n of Fttshnwn-Soph<•m• t'P l'ivnl- N.ewm·an 'lil. discus:-;ions at mePting.:-~ v..· IC are 1 n \\' ,. i.n,t...: uut all :•(•ti\'itiP~ '\. Cl b . h' h 1n otdPt to l'at 1 \' ottt 1ts d<•!Honslla- Ill·•'• talk on ExJoiPntialism \\'.hie!.' 1 ,,,..,. C'.·tnlpU.\. Th·.'.\ 1 ·~.·· tilt' tl 11 · 1 u 1 · 11 ~ 1 p · open to aH inh·t·e,;(pd parties. . r .... -~ _ _, 1\. tug-t·lf-\\'at, t't·<.'. u t'l'!lH:->Htlln lions. Hoh ~avi<>s ls PI t·>tdt•nt ,f \'\·' gJ\'t'n thl' Wt•Pk pr<'\'toU». a st•rir:< \f fil't· broadrasl>' bt•Jllg 1;,., ht·t·n ~J:>ntul. f•n \ Ftt·,hm•·n Cln \\'c'< nc·~<i:~y, Dt•CI'Blbt•J· 3. thP TIH• nC'X( nwrttn!' ot the AVC wiH tilt' organization. Plan< Wl't ,. madt• fur till' Rpnn~ gin•n b\' <'< llt•gt>s in tilt' ''\Jlltnl '\''t.ion a I ba>'l{Pthall ganH'S that :'>;pwma·n Club 'f Cnion Collegr bt• hPid ! t 7:30 p.m. on Tursday, o t••rm as this was tlll' tirull mt•c•tmg I an•a '\'':' lht• Alb:my statitJn Tlll' \\'t'l·l .l<'•Jilitt> tlw unitt>d e!'foJt>' \f F . Dc•L·ernhPI' 15, in Old Chapel. At I I 1vas add·JPsepd by the RPv. rancts t!f tlw Cltt' t 11 \ l<'t·m. i' pi'Ogl'?m will be announc<d !11'<1 tlw ciao>'. this timP a 1·epo1·t on the cotpera- German Society Initiates 11 Men --~- J>l<JdU\t•d b)' l'!ll<>n Co!IP<>t• studc·nt:c< 1 Duff\,·, Ptof\\'\'l' l'f Sact·Pd RPt·ip· til'<' stott> wiH b!' Jli'I'SPlltl'J and \' l\\ Tht'Jt•att \',ttiou.stttht·J plopt::-;a:-. ,----------------;I and d!l<'<'tt·d b~ :.11 B C. Hubbm::<. lh\t will lw clisf'Us~•·d and llll'lhods tm p at St. AHthory's Rrminary in tlw nll'mbt t·,; will plan prop·am~ Last \\'Pdnl'sda.y th1• r• C't·ntly 1 t•su,cJtatt'l! Bt'\a Thl'la Chaptl'r of tht· ;\;atit~nal !it·Jntar. Hun tal) 1 FLUt·lllll~ llt•lta Ph1 ...\lph:t truiLtt I t·d th•· fulln\\lt:;...:: :-.1Utlt·nt.~ 1ntn 1t:-: 1 thl' >'latiun adl'ist'J. of flll tlt .. t· aPt ion dt>cid<•d up• n. Rt•n.'\'\laer. fur futurP l'lll'Ptings. FRENCH I- :-----------------------:1 tank~ Prt>:--cott [. Htown t•arll lht<>n Edwald Chtnlt·it•\\',kl. \\'d-' 1t·,n1 (_ ... Pnldtn E1 \\atd ll;dil!-tt·dt. \\'1lltarn fiahh. J.,· ..... ltt· 1;1.1~. H~~bt·It Hnn..;p H·\ ht>t t L:t.WI PrlCt· Ha~·n1nnd :\lcl~u~··. Johr. C. Pl olP Proft)~~~~t·:-- \\\t•tnht>I\!-!t'l' .nntl Htcl<~ of thP <--;t>IIllan :-.t:Iff of tht· :\lt•dt·In L:1n~ungt- Fa('ulty WP!t' rnadt• vot- ing Uli'IllbPI :4 of t.ht· ch .ptt•t. , Pz nfPS!'Ol ~ SIIbt•l :Jnd Fall t•Il . Wt•t t> n1nde hor ot a 1 y !llt>JUbt·t ~ of tht• ftatl'rnity. . ' Tht~ inttiatton l't'I t·rnonit·~ \'\\PIt' 1 fo!luwnl b1· an illuminating <ii>'l'U>'·I ~h n on ~t'~lantil'!--> in patticulat and phtlology in g<'nl'ral !Pd by Pt u- fl'.:-:~ot· \\\t·inbt>t F-!t'I'. Prt fps:-<nt· H:tt t- wig- conductt'd tht· ntl'l'tini.! In hi~; capacity a.s advi~t·r to thp Cha.ptt•r. Phil Englehardt Liquor Store 519 UNION STREET Between Barrett & Jay Streets Phone 3-31 I 0 FOR YOUR CHRISTMAS GIFT SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete He11d to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4 .. 5676 114 STATE Ne11r FERRY ; I CLEANERS and DYE'RS 129 JAY STREET • \Reliable Service\ • Phone 6-4295 MILK Vitamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE 6-2351 GUERRA'S PHARMACY Fountain Prescriptions Sundries bOO Union St. Cor. Barrett St. COLONIAL ICE CREAM CO. Ice Cream at Its Best 134 Mohawk Avenue Phone 6-3443 Scotia II :======::. r , GAZETTE PRESS Printers ~- ............ -~-~- ................ -· ................ ............................... .... F'EIRRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 1115 BARRETT STREET ! ACME BARBE~ : : SH'OP : I I ! We Need Your Head l I I 1 In Our Business I I .1 I I I; : 509 UNION STREET I ' I I : A Place Where I l Union Men Meet l I I I I ~----------------------~ GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY 11 '\\~~ I / -~ Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 STATE ST.-Since 1893 FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 191 1 -~~~-~- ,2.~~~- - -·~- -- The U. S. Air Force offers you ~3~ (IIJIPI/fh one .- Tn.\T's what yon I'Hil t•anJ aftPr !'ornpleting oue yPar of pilot trainin1! atHI winnin~ ~our wing\' in t•he :\ ir Fon'l'. It i!>' a good dt•al from tltt• :-.tnrt. v;·hi·lt• you re nn :h iatinu Cadt•l yo11 (lmw :37.) pt'l' month. plus food. qiwrli'r~. uniform~. nwdi1·al afl(l tlt·ntal t•arr. AftPr ~llt'l'l''\'fully fi.ni-hin1! tlw cour,r. you are eommi,. ... iow·d a St•(•ond Lit'II!Pnant. :\ ir Forl'e Ht•,..rnt>. and a,...ji!Ut'd h1 ll!'tiw duty with the .\ir Fm1·t· at s:~:u, a rnontlt (illt>lutlin~ fli~ht pay), with cxt·t•llt·nt f·hatH'f'-. for frn·tht•r· iiHTt·a,,·,. as promolitlfl' t'OIIlt' tlm11qdr. In atl!litiou. you /!1'1 an I'Xtra s:;oo for t'HI'h yPm- of at·ti\ t' duty. and willlw 1!i' <'n a t•halll't' to t•urript•lt' for a f•onnni,.;-ion m tlrP Ht'1!ulm· Air Fon·p i.f you an· iut(.•.n·,.(,·d 1a a ~~·n ii'P l'lirt.'<'r. This opportrmity. wlrit>h E'amrot J.,,. tJ,uplif·atl'd Hll\\dwn· Pl-.t• at HI!\ llr·j,., .. t'!'ll:i·l'\' nwn for wt>ll- . . ' paid. rP~pon ... ihlt> po-it ion,.. tlr rouf!:lrlllrl th1• a\ ia- tinn iJ]()u,..try_ at lrigh pa~ f1·o111 l·lw IH'ginning. It year after graduation IS open to you if you·tl' l'in;dP. lwtwf'l'll 20 awl 26~ yt'm·~ ni1L and June t'ompldt>d at )pa,.t ont•- half tht· rt•quirt>mentt-; for a dP1!1't'l' ft·om an Ul'l'redited eollt•gt' or uniH·r,..ity ( ot· P\\'\ anPxami- nation llll't1~11ring thP CIJUivalent). A,.k for d1•taiJ,. at yonr· l'. S. Arm\ awl l'. S. Air Fon•t• Recnliting Station_ or w~·ilt' to Headquarter~. li. S. Air Force. Attt>ntion: A\ iation Cadt•t St•ctioH. Wa!'hington 2:>, D. C. U.S. ARMY AND U.S. AIR FORCE RECRUITING SER\IIC£: N 0 T E: If you IH•rt• awaiting a--i~nm<•nt or taking training whPn thl' ,\. iatinn Cmlt•l prn::ram wa, I'll! ba<'k in 19·1·1 .. 15 l'ou ran r•• <Jtl l'f · 1 • \' . · a I ~ l'>oiiHJJ ~· h~· pn\'!-<ltlf: tht• 1•h~ ... it•nl t•'Xnrnina tiun, I•rn\ iflf•d \ ou m••••t thP oth<·r r<'<Juir.·nwnt, (i,,,..( ahow. Writ,.' for information In n .. ad<JIIartt-r,, L. ~- Air For('t•, AIIPn- tion: A1ia1ion Cad<'! St•ction, Wa~hington 2:>, IJ, (;, VOL. 70. B· Su Sub-fre~ wi:ll be v College FE 22, accordi Ripton, D sions, who fraternity men in pl sub-freshn To About 140 attend the which will years, visits athletic cor campus bui Union baskE ary 21 will tential und for the Gar1 The frat! lodgings fo and will ent! Ripto11 Mr. Ripto ternity chair noon to disc· for the wee the fraternl invite perso to their hou pressions he visit to aJ Ertgland se! schools were of encourag for admissio tioned, howe schools in 1 direct their \Big Three\ Yale) as we England coil It is hop' Delphic SociE with the A yield more pc will give Uni tion fro adjn During th1 Mr. Ripton s suggestions how the adv be placed be1 schools. Defi~ In Tt The report Committee 'VI moria! Chape the study b1 chairman of report showe tea was oper breakdown of showed that the number c by the comr in scope of the present r ized expendit come for thif of $2,546.48. The chairzr1 mitee revealet rived by a ta triculating of income from by the Studer sports events; dance and tht on the sale ' including the of Freshman the sale of ad Union period! cordiensis, Id vertisements playbill and t the reverse s the productio tickets to the derived by PI given in oth Glee Club and ditions to the cil Fund and Total income ities amount• $14,262.05. Th elude the Ca IFC Fund wl 202.10, not av~ tee for use In

the jobs of wHl ach re- t he the bi!I ney at tel·- ·are At Founded Qt Union College in 1877 VOL. 70, No. 12 SCHENECTADY. N. Y., FRI·DAY. DECEMBER 19, 1947 --~--~--~----------~--~~~--~--------~~ PRICE 10c Business ·Competition Denied --<® No department stores are owned or operated by Union College, Dr. Carter S b D. h R.. • d. s t Davidson, president of the college, declared yesterday when queried about a_ re- . ·u . - .L-, ros ' .·' e rl:O . . e. .· ' 'aent purchase by the college of. real estate inN. Y .. city valued at $11,000~000. Dr. Davidson also disclosed that he has been called to testify before the ways ----~~~~.,.,__~~--\--~---~-·and means committee of the House of Representatives concerning possible taxM Sub-freshmen and Visitors~-­ will be Welcomed to Union. Cdllege Febrmtry 20,. 21, and IFC Plans Frosh Welcome ation of educational and religious establishments. Involved Deal ~~---~~~--~~----~-~;--- 22, according to Mr. J. Harold· Ripton, Director of Admis- . sions,. who is working with 16 fraternity \rushing\ chair- . men in planning the annUal• · sub-freshmen event. · To Tout College Deficit of $2,546 Shown In Tax Committee Report In a complicated transacM · tion the Un-ion I!olding Corp., . a subsidiary of the college, . purchased w it h endowment funds and loans the site of the Abraham and Strauss Inc. deM partment store in New York City. Union also owns land . in seven large cities em which ·structures of Allied Stores Corp. are located . .Dr. Dav·idson's testimony before · the Hous(l ways and means com- mittee will be given in connection with charges made to dongre,ss · that c·olleges engaged in business in competition with ,private e11ter- . prises should be taxed. Union col- lege was mentioned in the proposal, made by the National Tax: Equality Assn. Denies Competition New Idol Editorial Board Photo by Ar.thur Cohon Left to Right: Charles DeMatteo, Joseph Enzer, George Zopf Interim Leaders of IDOL Are Elected

947 heh' the job~ M will )'('- the the bWl si·ng at a! am! Ul't' will At era- and 1 Founded at Union College in 1877 VOL. 70, No, 12 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1947 PRIC·E lOc: Business Competition Denied Sub-Frosh Period Set No department stores are owned or operated by Union College, Dr. Carter Davidson, president of the college, declared yeste'l·.'day when queried about a re- cent purchase by the college of real estate in N. Y. city valued at $11,000,000. Dr. Davidson also disclosed that he has been called to testify before the ways and means committee of the House of Representatives concerning possible tax- ation of educational and religioU:s establishments. Sub-freshmen and visitors~ wi:ll be welcomed to Unio:n College February 20, 21, and 22, according to Mr. J. Ha1·old Ripton, Director of Admis- sions, who is working with 16 fraternity \rushing\ chair- men in planning the ammal IFC Plans Frosh Welcome Involved Deal .0r----------·-------~--- sub-freshmen event. To Tour College About 140 men are expected to. attend the three-day week-end which will feature, as in past, years, visits to classes, laboratories, athletic contests and important campus buildings. The Hobart-· Union basketball game on Febru- ary 21 will see this group of po- tential undergrad 11 ates cheering for the Garnet team. The fraternities will furnish lodgings for the sub-freshmen, and will entertain the men. Ripton Discusses Trip Mt·. Ripton met with the fra- ternity chairmen Wednesday after- noon to discuss the tentative plans for the week-end. After advising the fraternity representatives to invite persons considering Union to their houses, he told of the im- pressions he gathered from a recent visit to approximately 65 New Ertgland secondary schools. The schools were visited for the purpose of encouraging students to apply Interfrater.nity Council in Silliman discussing plans for Sub Freshmen Weekend In a complicated transac- tion the Union Holding Corp., a subsidiary of the college, purchased w i t h endowment funds and loans the site of the· Abraham and Strauss Inc. de- partment store in New York City. Union also owns land in seven large cities on which structures of Allied Stores Corp. are located. Dr. Davidson's testimony bef0re the H0use ways and means. com- mittee will be given in connection with charges made t0 Cong!'e,ss that colleges engaged in business in competition with private enter- prises should be taxed. Union col- lege was mentioned in the proposal, made by the National Tax Equality Assn. Denies Competition Union College, in leasing! land to F h S d 0 business establishments, in no way ren ·c . tu ent pens· competes with private enterprise, . . Dr. Davidson said. In fact, he ex- plained, the government benefits H M f U • from the taxes involved in the real · orne to en O . lllOll estate transactions •. and from the · · · : . . additional taxes paid by the stores New Idol Editorial Board for admission to Union. He men- Union's Frenchman, Jean Cotillon, has extended an open tioned, however, that most of the invitation to any and all students who may be in France next schools in New England seem to · J , d \I t t k which he said are able to increase their income by the sale of the land. Income from the end{)wment funds invested in the property wm be used to repay loans and bond issues granted to purchase the land, with the result that no actual increase in college income will oc- cur from the transaction for ap- proximately 25 years, Dr. David- son explained. Photo by Arthur Cohen Left to Right: Charles DeMatteo, Joseph Enzer, George Zopf Interim Leaders of IDOL Are Elected direct their graduates toward the summer to visit his home. In ean s wor s, wan o rna e \Big Three\ (Harvard, Princeton, the announcement that my home is an \Open House\ for any Yale) as well as other large New Union student who is in France.\ England colleges. Town of 3,000 ~-------------- It is hoped that the January Delphic Society trip in cooperation Jean's home is a little town of with the Admissions Office will about 3,000 persons located some yield more potential Union men and 200 miles southwest of Paris. The will give Union a larger representa- name of the town is Chemille tion fro adjmoining states. (Maine et Loire) and it is easily During th(l meeting Wednesday, r.eached by train. Jean gave us Mr. Ripton said he would welcome. enough information to fill a travel suggestions from students as to folder and here it is in very much how the advantages of Union can the same form as he typed it out. be placed before more preparatory It is a good experience for young schools. men in college to go and spend a Deficit of $2,546 Shown In Tax Committee Report The report from the Student Tax~ Committee was presented in Me- morial Chapel on December 18 to the study bOdy by K. K. Kli:tn, chairman of the committee. This Expenditure commitments total $24,144.70, which was awarded as follows: the Idol $1,760 or 7% of report showed that the commit- the total; the Concordiensis $3,850 tee was operating at a defict. A (16%); the Garnet $6,200 (26%); breakdown of ~e figure~ present~d and the Freshman Record $675 showed that Wlth. t~~ mct·e9;s~ m < 3 %>. Operating expenses of the the number of. acilviiles subs1d1~ed band, Glee Club, Outing Club, and ?Y the committee, the e~pans10n Photographic Society amounted to m scope of _the~e ac~lvibes, and $ 6 , 6 1 4 .00 (27lh %). In addition to ~he present _rise m prices, auth?r- these recurrent expenses, the sum IZed expend~tures exceed total m- $3,350 was spent, $500 for the pur- come for th1s semester by a total chase of a cabin for the Outing of $2,546.4~. . Club; $2,400 for uniforms for the summer vacation in Europe. While it is true that shipping facilities and living conditions are not too good at this time, it should not prevent you from making the trip. Last summer many groups of American students made a European trip. Various American shipping lines provided boats for these students from June to Sep- tember, and while they were not the latest thing in the way of com- fort (the boats were transformed cargoes), the atmosphere aboard was the funniest and the most in- teresting that many of the students have ever enjoyed. By the time the ships docked at the pier every- one was well acquainted with one another. Jean said that the shipping, facilities should be superior to last. The Strauss transaction was handled by a prominent attorney, and a trustee of Union College,. who was not identified. Only $360,(}()0 of the college's en- dowment funds was used in the purchase. A 30-year bond for $8,- 250,000 was taken up by the Equi- table Life Assurance Society. The 30-year renewable lease provides for a rental to the college of $100,- 000 per year. Heslin Talks On MD's Life year's and that while the food situ- .__~---- ation in Europe has been reported Dt'. Heslin, Professor of Urology to be in a deplorable state, stu- at Albany Medical College and At- dents wHl be able to manage by tending Urologist at Albany Has- bringing along some food plus ·pita!, in an address to the Union \exchangeables.\ You are allowed College Pre-Medical Society after to bring 50 pounds of food into the meeting on December 9th, France. The prices ill the less warned those who are planning to fashionable restaurants are still go on to Medical Schools to con- reasonable and furthermore, Am- sider carefully all the facts of erican dollars can be exchanged· life as a doctor before they com- ( Continued on Page 6) mit themselves. Joseph Enzer, Editor; George Zopf, Jr., Managing Editor; and Charles De Matteo, Associate Editor, are the nucleus of the Idol Staff for the spring term as announced by the Publications Board following a recent meeting. Leave in January The graduation in January of Editors William F. Brooks, Jr. and Vincent C. De Baun necessitated the board's appointing new men to these posts. The Christmas season issue of the Idol will be the last worl! of the present editors and the new staff will have the oppor• tunity to issue >& March and a May number of the college's literary magazine. Joseph Enzer, originally a mem- ber of the Class of '42, is well quali- fied for his new position, having moved up from the Managing Editor post as well as being an English major. He has had sev- eral original pieces of writing ap- pear in the Idol with emphasis on the Editorials. The reviews of Mountebanks productions that ap- · pear in the college publications are (Continued on Page 6) Kappa Nu National Convention Slated During Vacation Christmas vacation will be more than a rest period to many \K.N.'s.\ It \Vil! mark the first time in the history of Kappa Nu fraternity that its >&nnual conven- tion will be held in Schenectady. The convention, to be held on December 27, 28, and 29, is the meeting of representatives from every chapter of Kappa Nu, in- cluding chapters from Alabama, I..ouisiana, California, Pennsyl- vania, Michigan, and New York. Awards to Be Given The business meetings, at which ;r'he chairman of . the Tax Com- college band; and $300 for the n;1tee revealed that mcome was de- presentation of the Freshman Ori- rived by a tax of all students rna- entation Program. triculating of $16 per college year; t Income from the dances sponsored In order to ~ala.nce the .budge ' by the student Council after home the Tax Cozmmttee has been con- sports events· profits on mid-winter sidering several proposals. It has dance and the Junior Prom; profit been noted that the Garl).et, for ex- on the sale of football programs, ample, was_ awarded 26% of the including the advertising· the sale total commitments. Two alterna- of Freshman caps· inc~me from tives for the decrease in the amount Daniel Frisbie This Evening to • zn Commit Matrimony Memorial Chapel the policies and aims of the fra- ternity are formulated. will be h-eld at the Van Curler Hotel. Several vital changes in the Kappa Nu constitution, now contemplated, will be discussed and voted on at that time. Highlights of the con- vention will be the awarding of the Founder's Day Cup to that chapter which has excelled in Fraternity activity, and the Presi- dent's Award, given to that grad- · .' · th have been advanced·; reduce the the_ sale o~ a~verbsmg space m e t b h · h the periodical is Umon periOdtcals such as the Con- a~oun Y. V: IC _ cordiensis Idoi and Garnet· ad-. bemg subsidized and have the stu vertiseme~ts in' the Mounteb~nks' ilen~s pay ~ small sum for their playbill and the advertisements on copies, ?r giVe the Garnet to the the reverse side of the tickets to graduatmg class members only. An- the productions; the sale of the other pr?J?Osal to cut expenses was tickets to the productions; income the_ abohbon ~f the cut syst~~n~Y derived by programs and concerts which a certam an;ount of . y given in other localities by the received for advert1.sements m the Glee Club and the Union Band. ad- periodicals was_ returned to the · · . · c' ·staffs in recogmtlon of their serv- dibons to the Interfratermty oun- . . Th' t te takes ap- cil Fund and the Campus Chest. wes.. IS cu sys m Total income from all these activ- pr?XImately 12% of the .budg:t· A ities amounted to the sum of third method of economizing 1s the $14,262.05. This figure does nort in- abolition o_f the Freshma_n Record, elude the Campus Chest nor the as there ~s som~ quest~on as to IFC Fund whiGh amounts to $4,- the necess1ty for 1ts publication. 202.10, not available to the commit- The tax committee plans to sub- tee for use in the student activities. (Continued on Page 6) 0 The wedding of Daniel Manning<$•>--------------- Frisbie Jr., of Schoharie, to Miss Dorothy Newkirk of 643 McClellan Street, Schenectady, will be held at 6 p.m. today in Memorial Cl).apel. Frisbie, a member of the class of 1951, is the son of Mrs. Ruth . Frisbie of .Schoharie. He is ·a graduate of Schoharie High School, and for nearly four years was a member of the A1•my Air Force, · : serving in the Pacific Theater of operations. Miss Newkirk an English teacher . in Schoharie High School, is a ' graduate of Albany State Teachers College. Rev. Martin DeW·olf of the Sec- ond Reformed Church, Schenec- tady, will perforpt the ceremony. uating member of Kappa Nu fra- ternity who has excelled in schol- arship, student and fraternal activ- ity, and who has demonstrated qualifications for leadership. Of great importance to Union's Iota Chapter wm be the appropriation of funds for its new house, to be built on the campus in the near future. Carter Davidson; president of Union College, will address the convention at the Sunday noon luncheon. Founded nt R:ochestPl' The fraternity was founded at the University of Rochester .. in , 1911. The Iota chapter was found- ed at Union in 1917. and in com- memoration of-the 30th anniversary . of this founding, the convention is being herif in Schenectady. The convention committee of Iota Chep- <Continued on Page 6)

2. arnntnr \A Cat~Ia Pena Parole Auai'' Member Associated Col- legiate Proos and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Ad·ver- Uslng Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc,, Colle(l'e Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the OP.hool year. Editorial Office 1 wash.burn Hall, Union Co lege, Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Post Crfflce as Sec- Dnd Class Mail Matter, subscription lOc a copy ; $3 year: delivered any- where in the United States. ~lA!'iAGING BOARD Lot H. ('ookc, Jr. . .................. Editor-in-Chief Craig F. Mftch&ll ............ , ......... ~lanaginl!' Editor Robert Bu.rtlett ......................... News Etl.ltor Dnnoan Lashsr. . . .. Sports EdltDr Leslie DeGroot ........ , , ....... , .. C'lrculatlon l\lanager Mert<>n Sarnoff, , ..... , . , , . . .... , ... Business Manager ElllTOHL\L ST.\FF James :uurrar •. \t ('nrl!ll, TbUIIII\ Harmon, non t'l'l'• git'l·, Anthun1. J. Ea~t~rht'uuli, Ot~urge Oril'k, J·u~ Hottorull')., i.(•\tt'r FL'rg·u\nJl John P('rt.u, .John Hu\Pr... Lt'..,tPr ('ollrn, l.Ponurd su .. li..ind, Frank Stt•ru,. .Janu.~, ('uri, ('llffnrtl ('asPy. ,Ju\'it'Ph Enzt•r, 1-tolwrt lirldPr, \\' ulig·nng Hh~·mt•l', Ura:tiu lJUl\'\ iatto. Jim Fritts. und \\llllnm 31-a) .. l'. Sl'OHTS ST,\ FF Jam•• EttinA\t•r JIHh Sa~<'. Hurtlt•y Vt'-IY, John Ve>stJ. Hohort 1\olln. Merry Christmas, to All Comes the season to wish friends and enemies alike a :\lerry Christmas and best wishes for all of '48. Prexy heads our list and we hope that his informal and slightly needling- manner in Chapel continues •.•• To his most gracious secretar;y, Ah! Lillian. The young Dean is a most engaging fellow and our best goes out to him and may he rest well before his sixteen-·week term begins. While we're in the Ad. Bldg. a pleasant word and a cheery smile to Helen and Lois, Adelaide and Betty, Charlotte and Frances, Anne and Peggy, and to the host of others whose names evade us but whose presence brings us joy. To 1\lac, Tony, Dick and Ben, we wish less cream and a little more crop. As we skip past Silliman we nod to Doc and Vic with a special note for Miss Sa\vick for those wonderful APC's. To Elmer we wish only attention in Chapel, for him that would be enough. We daren't go near the gym but successful seasons to our coaches and a pat on the back and good cheer to Ed and Johnny and Fred. To Freddie we \Vish a generation of Vnion men born with lacrosse sticks in their mitts. Make-Up Tests Monday, ,January 5 8:00 A. 1\!1. Physics 2la 9:00 A. M. E. E. 15 10:00 A. 'M. Bioi. 1a Bioi. lla Chern. 2a 11:00 A.M. Econ. 46a Physics 25a Educ 4a 1:30 P. ::\L Eng. 30a flue, St uc}, lOa Chern. Ia Mth. 31a Mech. llb 2:30P.M. Gov. 12a l'!ist. 33a 3:30 P.M. Econ. lla Econ. lla History 32a l\iath. 2b 4:30P.M. Greek la Camp. Lit. Chern. 12a Chern. 12a Chern. 12a Chern. 21a l\fath. 1a Math. la 'Math. 1a Psych. 1b E. E. 13 E. E. 13 Tuesday, January 6 10:00 A.M. History 25a Spanish la Schwarz Miller Phys. Lab 204 E. E. Bldg. 14 Boyer - Scott Bioi. Lab 101 BoyPr Bioi. Lab. 101 Finholt Chern. Lab. 201 Avery H. Clark Pearce Blodgett Lannhec Pitts Snyder Sayre C'ampbell Bronner B. H. 300 Phys. Lab. 204 Psych. Lab. B. H. 301 B. H. 202 B. H. 106 C. E. Bldg. 205 C. E. Bldg. 107 B. H. 201 B. H. 201 Lewis B. H. 201 Bennett B. H. 201 Bronner B. H. 201 Burlwtt C. E. Bldg, 104 Coffin B. H. 300-E C'offin B. H. 300-E Sheffer Chern. Lab. 201 Herbrandson ChE'm. L. 201 F'inholt Chern. Lab 201 Ewing Chern. Lab. 201 Urbano C. E. Bldg. 206 Maddous C. E. Bldg. 206 Holt C. E. Bldg. 206 Pearce C. E. Bldg. 108 Lewis E. E. Bldg. 24 Owens E. E. Bldg. 24 Doty Jones B. H. 210 Lang. Bldg. 5 B. H. 300 B. H .. 210 B. H. 210 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1947 For Those Staying All students remaining on campus over the vacation period a1·e requested to see Miss Bouck in the administration building as soon as possible. The VORPAL BLADE by brillig Well, well, children (those of you who are sticking it out until the starting gun), here it is, the night before exodus and all thru the campus not a creature is stirring, n~t ·even a f-resh. Everyone gathering strength for the coming two weeks. I suppose most of you will be passing homeward The Profs are next on our list and we'll thru the Blue Gate, and, as you know, it is a new and spectacular Blue Gate. No more of this free need plenty of help from Santa here ... New passage thru the grounds of Union by the locals. huts should be in the offing for W-Hlie the From now on, they w1H have to know someone to get in. I walked all the way down there the other Whip and Herrick and Bibbel'; we hope that day to see what this latest ln dead stick landing Bill our liberal wiH get an overcoat for the barriers might be. <Don't ask me about this one. All I know is that the ex-Airswabbie down the hall winter • • . Please Santa, a new cigarette used to crumple an F6F into one every time his holder and a copy of Esquire to the Govern- carrier pitched when it should have rolled.) It turned out to be an imposing structure. Solid granite ment Dept. To each his own .••. \Ve wish. posts and a fairly stout section of ironwork between,.- Bronner (Pop) pleasant holidays and hope There are even sharp points along the top of the ironwork, and provisions for a lock. Of course, it that he comes back to his classes mellower hasn't been tested for bounce yet, but that will come and sweeter in disposition (Boy, wil'l Santa next year the night before the RPI game. I'd suggest the Administration refrain from planting ivy have a tough one there). Will Jo Ro wear around it until it has passed the test. Confidentially, a hat this winter? \Viii the local unions look from my observations, I don't think it will abso~b the shock unscathed, We'll probably have to gather upon him with more favor? See wl~at you with sticks and stones and chuck the blighters out can do, will you Santa? And to all the Eng- in the usual way. But it will be a help. !ish Profs we since1·ely hope that theJ· get But to get back to the subject of Christmas. I better material from the high schools ... the want to take this opportunity to call attention to one of the forgotten men in Union's history, and perhaps Lord knows that they have been gl'iping long wish him a posthumous Merry Christmas. H~ is the enough. To the Profs of the Engineering man responsible for the architecture of Union, Mr. J. J. Ramee, who's portrait may be seen by standing Dept. we wish them more of the eager beav- in the center of Hale House Dining Hall and looking ers that they are accustomed to , . . To the toward the west. To tell the truth, I was quite sur- prised by the appearance of Mr. Ramee in the per- Psych. Dept. we say in all sincerity, \Some- trait. Joseph Jacques Ramee is described some- how, you can always tell a Psych major!\ where as \an itinerant French architect\ and I had a visual picture of an unshaven man shuffling along \Ye mustn't forget our Coordinator. Here's with a pack on his back, sketching the future plan to big-ger and better coordinating Bill! And for Union on the back of an envelope he'd picked up along the road. On the contrary, J. J. appears to be to his attractive assistants we wish to one a man and to the other much less work ... To all those pioneers in Dutchman's Village, both faculty and students, we don't envy you these cold nights ... Oh well, they say that love can keep you warm. . . . Santa came through with a uniform for X-9 so there must really be a Santa! And say Santa will you hurry up the wearing out of those Navy grey shirts that all of our ex-Ensigns are wearing. Even some of our ex-Three-stripers are wearing them ...• We know \ve've for- gotten some. To the women we say, Remem- ber us in your stockings, to the men we say nothing .••• Our printers will never forg-et us and here is a chance to. make a few points with them ..• Frank, Butch, Hadow, Van and Betty (not one of our printers but ••• ) Still off Campus we include special wishes to :\Irs. Scott and Rev. Hugo and Doc. Davis and 1Ir. :Mancuso. :Merry Christmas to all .. and to all •.•. a good night The :Managing Board and the Staff. Jan. 5-Jan. 7 4 :30 P. 'M. His,1;lry lb 4:30 P. 'M. History lb History 27a Chern. 12b Chern. 23a Physics 4a Math. 2a Math. 2a Math. 2a Math. 11a Math. lla Math. lla Math. lla \\'PdnPsday, January 7 Doty B. H. 210 B. H. 210 B. H. 210 Chern, Lab. 201 Chern. Lab. 201 Phys. Lab. 104 Finkelstein Doty Sheffer Sheffer Ballou Farrell Maddeus Holt Snyder Maddous Farrell Holt C. E. Bldg. 201 C. E. Bldg. 201 C. E. Bldg. 201 C. E. Bldg 201 C. E. Bldg. 201 C. E. Bldg. 201 C. E. Bldg. 201 Britain's 'Further Education' Since the war, Colleges and Universities all over the world have opened their doors to all those people who were unable to attend due to military duties, industrial work in war factories or other jobs taken in the national interest. Today a large proportion of the students both in this country and in the United Kingdom are veterans. The United States Government has smoothed the way for many of these individuals by introducing the G. I. Bill of Rights, but a scheme is by no means restricted to America. In the British Isles too, the Government has insti- tuted a plan called the Further Education and Train- ing Scheme, ·which operates in a similar manner. There are, however, some differences and it may be interesting to outline some of them. The British plan is divided into two parts. One part refers to technical and industrial training, such as building. plumbing, carpentry and other similar trades, the other to the higher types of academic training at Universities. The benefits, under this plan, are open to veterans of either sex who, because of the war, were unable to begin any specialized training or who had their courses interrupted. For those people who desire to train themselves for any of the skilled trades, the Government has set up large numbers of training centres. These centres aim to turn out men as fully trained per- sonnel in various fields and, in this sense, they re- place the system of apprenticeship. While attending such institutions. the students are paid a. reasonable wage, just as they would be if they had served an apprenticeship in the usual way in peacetime. For those who wish to attend a University, there is a further qualification required. All applicants must possess a School Certificate (corresponding to a High School Diploma) and must show that they have been accepted by a particular college. Once in possession of such documents, a candidate • is interviewed by officers of the Ministry of Labour and, if they discover that the application is satis: factory, they pass the matter to the Ministry of as well dressed as anyone was in those days, and if he were to have a glass in his hand, could easily pass as a man of distinction, circa 180(}. Keen eye; well-brushed suit, an obvious gentleman. My apolo- gies to Monsieur Ramee, and Joyeux Noel. Speculation ran high last M(mday noon as to whether the .feet of the Maintenance Department were firmly planted in reality or not. There seemed to be a machine out in the -center of Library field dispensing something to the four winds by means of whirling blades. Most of the stuff fell on paths (the ·ones carefully trampled thru the center of the play- ing field), and the Immediate thoug·ht was that the Administration was spreading mud over the paths to discourage people from using them. One person even suggested that the mud had at last hit the fan, ·Actually, as you all have guessed by now, it is fertilizer. I have it from a fanning hand that the winter is the time ·to spread the stuff. He gave some explanation about it spreading into the soil when the ice melts in the spring, but I didn't pay much attention to the technology of the thh1g, so you may have the information for what's it's worth. Tuesday I made a te'lephone can to a local radio station to find out whether Lionel Barrymore will read Dicken's Christmas Carol this year. The man on the other end didn't know for sure, but he said that it was almost a certainty. He also said some- thing about it being as much a tradition as Madame Schumann-Heink used to be. I don't know what Madame Schumann-Heink used to do, but I bet it wasn't as good as the Christmas Carol. Doggone it, Christmas isn't <Christmas without Mr. Barrymore reading it aloud. I don't care what you say. I 'know Christmas when I see it, and I see it now, so I'm going to pack my suitcase now, so I can check out right after class. That's all for now, chHdren, see you next issue, same page, same paper. Ed. Note: Brillig is a wishful thinker fot· when better stuff is forthcoming B:rillig will hit the road. A. J. Easterbrook Education. The Ministry of Education is divided into two main branches, the offices in London dealing with students at English Universities, and the Scottish Erducation Department, whose prevince -in- cludes those people at the four Scottish Universities. A grant is then made by the Ministry of Educa- tion for the number of years required to attain a degree in the field which a student has chosen. The length of time for which such a grant operates does not depend on the time spent in the forces, but only on the time required for the course. Thus it may seem that, if a student is enrolled in a course which requires five years of study for a degree, then the grant will last for five years, although, if a degree may be obtained in two years, the grant will only last that long. In certain exceptional cases, students may apply for a further grant to cover graduate study, providing another interview convinces the Education Department that such a course is desirable. . As the cost of living varies from place to place m the country, normally becoming cheaper to the North, the grant made to each student also varies. The idea of this measure is to ensure that the money provided will adequately cover the cost of board and lodging and leave a little over for books and .a few luxuries. Tuition is paid by the Government directly to the Colleges. When this scheme was introduced a few years ago, t?ere was some delay in paying out the money to wh1ch many students were entitled. This was due t? the fact that the various snags in the administra- tiOn ha? no~ ?een fully ironed out. In many cases too, Umvers1t1es had to wait for reimbursement for these stud_ents'. fees which are paid by the Ministry of Educatwn d1rect to the Universities. Though the schools were able to wait for payment, a large num- ber of_ students went through some unnecessarily hard times because of Government tardiness Now however, ~he system has been working satisf~ctoril; for some bme and there is no reason why any veteran \:'ho has the desire and the ability for further educa- G hon should not have it at the expense of the overnment. 1:30 P.M. Physics 14a Rojansky Phys. Lab. 104 4:30P.M. History la Warren B. H. 210 History 1a Finklestein B. H. 210 H1story la Doty B. H. 210 ilt>rry ar~risttttas FERRO iS RESTAURANT FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS STUDENTS REPORTING FOR MAKE-UP TESTS SHOULD PRESENT SLIPS STA'MPED WITH THE NAME OF THE DEAN /_ For Your Information I Freshman Nominations Freshmen elections for their representatives on the Student Council will take place on January 7th, 1948. All nominations with 15 supporting signatures must be turned in to thP Student Activities Office before men leave for Christmas recess on Saturday, December 20th. Ski Team Data The Ski Team plans to hold practice sessions at North Creek over the weekends of December 27th and January 1st. All team members are expected to attend and also any students inter- ested who have not signed up may attend. Dr. John Senn and James Peel will be present to aid in the coaching and instruction. Dorm Reservations Students desiring dormitory rooms for the Mary Anderson Good Food & · Beverages PHONE 6-9554 1115 BARRETT STREET SERVING UNION'S M.EN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head , to Foot Service UNITED Serving Union Since l9J1 cJ/tUJJUU./3, R1 f4 ~0\\~ GR \\~~AY ST. JEWH(RS II 166 J•y Street II GUERRA'S PHARMA·CY 11:00 A.M. Econ. 38a Econ.39a Econ. 43a Heat Engines 1:30 P.M. French 2b German 2a Eng. lOa Eng. lOa Math. 12a 2:30P.M. Math 1b History 16a Chern. 11a Chem. 11a Whitaker Bennett Avery Lowen Bennetton Klemm Weeks Murphy Farrell Burkett Bronner Little Bacon Heat Eng. Lab. Lang. Bldg. 4 Lang. Bldg. 4 B. H. 303 B. H. 303 C. E. 104 C. E. 104 B. H. 201 E. E. Bldg. 16 E. E. Bldg. 16 FebJ•uary-June term are requisted to make reservations with Miss Flemming at the Comp- h-oller's Office before Saturday, December 20th. P1•esent dorm residents have been sent reserva- tion forms. All other students can obtain the form at the Compboller's Office. Students will be notified of their assi!gnment afte1· the Christ- mas t·ecess. It is expected that only two students will be assigned to a room. The room I'ental for the te1·m will be $75.00 per student for a double room. Mary Anderson, lovely star of \'Whispering City,\ an Eagle· Lion Films release, is a fan of Schaefer Beer.\ Finest beer I ever tasted!\ she says. We think you'll say the .mme. Just try a glass of Schaefer Beer today. The F. & M. Schaefer Brewing Co., New Yorlc. CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4·5676 114 STATE Near FERRY Fountain Prescriptions Sundries 600 Union St. c B S or. ar~ett t. FRIDAY, In An kindly o cially in if we u for any structur ply a t offices persons. the Arn ration, Church in type, terprise possible cracy. Whethe scale o~g More of offices an .of our e• they are giant con tion\ hit myth. What ~ of more probably our ideolc tion. Th idea is re ing orga1 Economis our econo of greate: this will squeeze '-' organizati on rugge1 In a s would - 1 doomed t• depend fi.: organizati et, etc.-~ personal 1 that we c doctors 01 This ne• ciety. w{ cratic pr cruiting tions can so that ! the elite. l classes is share of handicaps. able OCCUJ if certain dustries a bricklayer: tices and listie wag1 But sor success ic order. w. relax our only whit• value can and farm ing the ' owe the c ing down tion\ (kee College gr< machine may educ: sure time ests. Wit good lead• son could participati More b1 individuali crafts artc tiona! Sd sponse to ( coordina tic In medici11 care of tl charity ca: die bulk ( buy medic: GOC STUDEt

and if easily eye; a polo- as to field of (the the paths fan, it is at the gave soil pay ng, so worth. radio will man said some- adame what bet it one it, ay. I S0 check issue, the ivided ealing the ce hl- a The does t only may the only s the is place the d and a few years due cases for the num- sarily Now, the FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1947 3 Davis Gives New Slants· On Bull Session Topics Delphic Society, Ripton Plan Trips Will Visit Secondary Schools Soon A. K. Davis · acept a charity stigma. Public need forces us toward mass medi- r---------------, In America we do not think cine. Moreover doctors themselves. kindly of \bureaucracy espe- depend increasingly on la:bora- cially in an election year. But tories, hopsitals, and clinics, so if we use the term as a label that both internal tendencies and external needs indicate more large- for any large administrative scale organization. Many who ap- structure, bureaucracy is sim- .prove better medical care view ply a hierarchy of rule~ or. this centralizing trend with alarm. Warm Dorms Doom Rooms To Livability World Pe,ace to be '48 OCampaign Issue-Hank Offl ·ces manned by trained But we can't eat our cake and have it too. persons. The modern State; \Peace is the all important~-­ issue for the 1948 presidentia1 1 election\ said Henry A. Wal- the Army, the business corpo- ration, and the Catholic Church are al!l bureaucratic in type, since a sustained en- terprise of many people is possible only through bureau- cracy. Whether we like it or not, large- scale organizations are spreading. More of us are working in large offices and factories. Though most of our economic units are small, they are so dominated by a few giant concerns that \free competi- tion\ has ·become practically a myth. What are some possible results of more bureaucracy? We can probably expect some changes in our ideology of individual competi- tion. The office-boy-to-president idea is realistic mainly in expand- ing organizations and economies. Economists disagree as to whether our economy has passed its period of greatest expansion. If it has, this will merely reinforce the squeeze which the growth of large organizations has already clamped on rugged individualism. In a stable bureaucracy most would - be vice - presidents are doomed to frustration. Promotions depend first on the needs of the organization-the vacancies, budg- et, etc.-and only secondarily on personal merit. The hard fact is that we can't all be managers or doctors or even clerks. This need not mean a caste so- ciety. We can improve our demo- cratic practices. First, the re- cruiting of top-ranking occupa- tions can be put on a merit basis, so that all classes contribute to the elite. Much talent in the poorer classes is now excluded from its share of the ·cream by economic handicaps. Secondly some desir- able occupations can be expanded, if certain artificially restricted in- dustries are reorganized. Like the bricklayers, doctors limit appren- tices and thus command monopo- listic wages. But some modification of our success ideology will still be in order. We shall probably ,have to relax our middle-class notion that only white-collar jobs count. More value can be ascribed to factory and farm jobs, perhaps by stress- ing the contribution a!l citizens owe the community and by play- ing down \conspicuous consump- tion\ (keeping up with the Jones). College graduates may well become machine operators, and colleges may educate increasingly for lei- sure time and avocational inter- ests. With full employment and good leadership the average per- son could develop wider social participation. More bureaucrll(]y will restrict individualistic occupations like the crafts and professions. The Na- tional Science Foundation, a re- sponse to our defense needs, means coordination for many scientists. In medicine, private practice takes care of the wejl-to-do and some charity cases. It slights the mid- dle bulk of the people unable to buy medical care and unwilling to GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING US STATE ST.-81noo 1893 lace in aN impromptu speech Building has not kept up with housing obs0lescence since 1900. Two basic troubles are the mass of local building markets featured by labor and contractor monopo- lies, and costly building methods. Making a house with 12-Iayer walls by wasteful hand techniques is like having your car built at the local garage. Again we are caught be- tween slum encroachment and our preference for sma!I business. This need not tnean that the govern-· ment runs everything. Theve is ample scope for local initiative if it will only seize its opportunities. Many services can be provided only on a community basis. Rathgeb & Walsh, Inc., contrac- tors for finishing. the pasture dor- mitories &nd Nott Street housing, have informed the college that the two new dormitories will be ·com- pleted in time for occupancy by . the second term beginning in Feb- rua!'y. This wiU make it possible to re- lieve the overcrowding in N 01·th and South CoUege dormitories. Rooms now occupied by three or four men will have only two stu- dents for the second semester. This should make the dormitories much more comfortable places in which' to live and should also improve study conditions. at a reception in All Souls' Unitarian Church, under the sponsorship of several organi-, zations, including the A VC Chapter at Union College, i and Fellowship of Social Pro- Current teclmique of home serv- icing, food purveying, and child care are often wasteful. They are better done by specialists or by co- operatives which might also re- duce the social isolation of many of us, Wider participation is espe- cially desirable for women, who are often caught between a dull, part-time household role and the middle-class convention of idle wives. Many women are frustrated by their relative lack of a socially significant role. The general tendency of bureau- cracy is thus toward wider social planning. We confront this fact with mixed feelings. We all want full employment, for instance, without war, the only sure basis of· prosperity thus far found. Yet many people don't want the gov- ernment action necessary to as- sure full employment in peacetime. Ultimately, however, our choice is not between planning and no plan- ning, but between different sorts of planning, by whom and for whom. The two buildings are similar in their const!'uction to Elmwood and Beaver Lodge. Each will house sixty students with two in a room. The heating has been improved ac- cording to the heating subcon- tractor and will be satisfactory. In this connection, both Elmwood and the doors from the rooms have been cut off at the bottom to allow the cool air to be drawn back to the heater. This should improve the heating conditions consider- ably in these two buildings. The dormitory room rates will be uniform in the Pasture, North and South College and Oldgym Dormitories. The rates . will be $75.00 per term per student in dou- ble rooms and $90 per term for the very few single rooms available. Notices have been sent to all the present dormitory residents for dormitory t'esidents for room reser- vations for the February-June term. Any students now living, off-cam- pus or in fraternities who desire dormitory rooms for the next term should contact Miss Fleming in the Comptroller's Office before Decem- ber 20, 1947. Students will be no- tified of their room assignments after the Christmas vacation. gl·ess. No Left-Turner, He Mr. Wallace, who arrived three- quarters of an holir late due to making a wrong right turn in Schenectady, was received by Dr. William M. Murphy, a member of the Union College English Depart- ment and chairman of the local Fellowship of Social Progress. His feelings were indicated, even be· fore the speech by his tie, which bore the motto \Repeal the Taft- Hartley Bill\. The former vice-president, brush- ing aside queries on his presiden- tial aspirations in 1948 by \I'm keeping the boys guessing as long as I can\ left the impression that he will head the ticket of a. third party in next year's election. Emphasising that he, as a pri- vate citizen is free to speak his mind, Mr. Wallace expressed his disturbance over moves towards the \inevitable war\. The purpose· of his travels and speeches was to counteract the feeling of the people that it is inevitable. The United States has a predes- tined position in the affairs of the world due to its geographical loca- tion and its history, he said. How- ever there are flaws in our de- moc~acy. These have been pointed out by various writers, both Ameri- can and foreign. Not the least of Bonus Information No business could survive without social planning. General Electric plans prices, output, health insur- ance, and recreation. Business practices like price-fixing and ad- vertising are in part attempts to l facilitate planning. Why ,not ex- tend our planning efforts into areas, the social value of which is less dubiot.Ls than high-pressure advertising? '---------- Planning oon provide for con- Students eligible for New York State World War II veterans bonus siderable individual initiative-we payments today were advised by Leo v. Lanning, ·state Bonus BUJ;e.au can plan to leave some activities director, to fill out application forms in their ?-orne commumt1es unplanned. But we should not before the close of the coming holiday recess penod-but not before gloss over the changes before us. Readjustments appear inevitable, January 1 · and the transition will be painful Although the forms will not be distributed pu?licly until De~em­ for many. Unfortunately it is im- ber 31, Mr. Lanning said veterans now attendmg. colleges hkely possible to join the good points of would save themselves considerable time if they obtam, execute and two social systems into a workable mail in their applications before ~eturning to their respective cam- combination. In every society puses after New Year's Day. there will be conditions we will The director called special attention to the ;~sidence c~rtificate call evil. on the application form, VB-1, and stressed that 1t must be s1gn?d by The transition once passed, no a New York State adult resident, who is not related to the applicant. doubt our children will feel as free under a bureaucratized economy \This means,\ Mr. Lanning explained, \that a veteran attending as ever our fathers did under lais- an out-of-state college who is eligible for the New York State bonus sez faire. For freedom is not a cannot satisfy the residence certificate requirement by having, for given set of intrinsic values but instance, a classmate, who is not a New York resident, sign the a subjective feeling of well-being, certificate.\ produced by an integrated society \It is for that reason,\ the director continued, \that veterans, offering its members harmonious especially those attending out-of-state schools and coUeges are ad- goal-orientations and by efficient vised to complete application forms as soon as the New Year opens inculcation of those values in in- and before returning to their respective campuses, if they desire dividuals. We are free when we payment as soon as possible.\ learn to want to do what we have to do, and when our society does However, Mr. Lanning added, a veteran does not have to apply not confront us with conflicting immediately if he does not choose to do so. At present, the director values. Hence it is meaningless stated the law does not provide any future time limit for filing to say that we would not be free applications. . under a different social order. Application form distribution outlets as previously announced are Phil Englebardt Liquor Store- 519 UNION STREET Between Barrett & Jay Streets Phone 3-3110 -FOR YOUR CHRISTMAS GIFT to include offices of all county, city, village and town clerks in New York State; all offices of Veterans' Service Agencies and Counselling Centers of the State Division of Veterans' Affairs; local posts of veterans' organizations; district offices of the State Department of Taxation and Finance in New York City, Brooklyn, Jamaica, Buf- falo, Rochester, Syracuse and Utica, and the department's central office in Albany, In the five boroughs of New York City, the blanks also will be available at 300 fire houses. WE KNOW YOU WILL . .A:LW A YS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HENRY A. WALLACE Courtesy Schenectady Gazette these defects is the ignoring of the Negroes and the Hindus, \Old Fashioned Americanism\ The democracies exhibit several inconsistancies, while deploring these practices in other countries, he said. Specifically, we harp on the Infringements of \democracy'' in the Balkans, while ignoring the lack of democracy in the United States with respect to Negro~s. Jews, Catholics, and other minor- ity groups. He cited the specific example of the \Jim Crow\ law in the South, by which the whites and Negroes were segregated during his speeches. Mr. Wallace stated that he was for a return to what he termed \Old Fashioned Americanism\. By this, he meant the First Amend- ment to the Constitution, which established the right to freedom of speech. This, he declared, was vio- lated after the First World War and is being violated now by the D epa r t men t of Justice in its \witchhunt\ for communists. Mr. Wallace came -out directly against Universal Military Train- ing. In his opinion, the two bil- lion dollars, which it will req ui're annually, would only give a false sense of security. It would be better spent if used to better de- fense methods, i.e. research in radar, etc. As Secretary of Commerce, he felt that the Russians did not want another war, so he wanted to en- courage trade between Russia and the United States. With this view in mind, he sent delegates to Rus- sia. This trade, he felt, would en- courage peace, which is all import- ant to Christian doctrines. Favors Partition On the matter of Palestine, Mr. Wallace stated that he was in favor of the partition. He des- cribed 4is visits to Jewish settle- ments in the Holy Land and stated that he\ was much impressed by their agricultural activities, com- munal life, etc. He spoke of his talk with the King of Transjordan. in which he suggested that the Arabs and Jews would mutually profit by the develojjtneilt of the Near East. In this plan of de- velopment, peace is an absolute necessity, he said. The China Inn Chinese and American food Weekday & Sunday Dinner NEAT PLACE TO DINE 314 State Street ~Areas AroundN. Ye To Be Explored For Prospects The tour of st>condu1·y schools in southern New York mad·e last year by rep1·esentatives of the Admis- sions Departmer.t and the· Delphic Society will be supplemented dur- In!;, tlw rmd-year recess by tours of :'-;ew England, Pennsylv,mia, and l.\1a1·yland. The object of these \rips ·b to increase thl' geographic- al distl'ibution of applicants to Union which at pr·e:;ent the Ad- ministration feels is not as dlversi- llCd as could be deJ:Hred. Although the real efrect of such visits wiH noL be evident ivl' two or three years, sevpr·al visrton; fr·om out- side the normal svhe1·e of Union's influence have already been re- ceived un the campus and shown about the grounds by members of the Delphic Society, some being uvernight guests of the fraternities on campus. At each school visited, members of the tour will address an as- sembly of college preparatory stu- , dents, each member describing a phase of college life in general and Union life in particular. Collec- tions of photographs dealing with collegiate activities will be on dis- play and bulletins and pamphlets will be left in the guidance coun- sellor's office. Personal interviews will be g.iven to all individuals who are interested, and application ·blanks are to be available to those who request them. The student members of the tour will be able to give first hand in- fot·mation to the ir.terested high school students concerning the various college activities, scholar- . ship grants, opportunities to sup- ·1!Iement income by working, and the advantages of the small col- lege over the large college. The fraternity system will be explained ·also, with information included about living conditions in the houses ar.d the dorms. The ath- letic program and various student organizations will round out their program. The administration members ac- . companying. the De!phics on the toU': will act in the capacity of moderators with the society mem- . bers working as a panel. The pro- gram will consist of a seven min- ute talk by each member of the panel which will be followed by a question period from the audience. A tour of secondary schools in western New York and the Mid- West is also being proposed. ---o--- Psi U. House Uncovers Old Autograph Book An autograph book belonging to Charles T. Church of the Class of 1856 was found in the basement of the Psi U. House recently. Besides containing the signatures of most of the members of that class, the book also has the names of many of Union's great men. On the third page are the words, \Perseverantia vincit omnia nee non et in gloriam ducit\ signed by Eliphalet Nott. On the next page is a brief inscription from Laurens P. Hickok, Union Worthy honored on last year's Founders Day. Among other well known names are those of Isaac Y. Jackson, after whom the garc'ens are named, and Elias Peissner, in whose honor the Peissner Prize in Germanic studies is given. Busts of these two men stand on either side of the library door. JACOB'S :PHARMACY Corner Nott & Carrie Pipe Headquarters Christmas Gifts for Her and Other Members of the Family I. J. Linsey '22 Prop. HEADQUARTERS For -HATCHES and JEWELRY CJhe ~@lJ!Irn:mlrn:@'ii'~lf JEOO@i~WJIOO@ @~ GAZETTE PRESS Repairing and Engraving Pens and the .Finest Gifts : Printers SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY STREET Corner State and Centor Sts.

4 To Tie Knot Over Holiday The wedding of Miss Betty Horinka to Kenneth Whelan will take place on Saturday morning, December 27, at the Church of St: Cyril Methodius. Evelyn Summers is to be the· maid of Honor and Dr. Reginald Carroll '45 will be the best man. John Horinka, brother of the br1de,. and Wayne La Pierre w 111 usheL 1Hss Horinka is a graduate of M:t. Pleasant High School in the June class of 1944 and has been doing secretarial WOl'k for the col- lege since July of that year. At present she is a secretary in the office of the Director of Admis- sions where she plana to continue her work after her marriage. Whalen is a native of Whitehall, N. Y., and spent one term at Dart- tnouth l.Jefore enter1ng Union in the fall of 1916. A member of the Class of '50, Whalen has been a mainstay on the footbwll team the past two seasons playing both back- field and line positions. A veteran of thirty-four months' service with the Navy he served as a Pharma- cist Mate. The couple are planning a one wee!{ honeymoon in Montreal after which they will make their home at 30 Union Avenue. ---o--- Outing Club Plans Tremendous Trips Due to adverse weather condi- tions, the Outing Club did not go on the proposed trip to the North Creek Sid Cabin last weekend. However, the cabin will be open to all students who wish to use it during the Chr-istmas vacation. If you do go up, please sign the ledger that you will find posted on the site. The calendar of the Outing Club includes the following activities, which can be signed up for no~ or in the near future on the Outing Club bulletin board: The weekend of February T will be novice weekend at North Creek. All are invited, so if your skiing is of the horizontal variety and you want to learn how to stand up, you will be welcome. February 28-29 will be a joint Union-Skidmore Ski Weekend at North Creek, and the following weeltend is open house, for those with dates only. No Stag. So line up and sign up. Watch fol.\ the chit-sheet. PS, the last two events will be chaperoned.) Low Student Train Fares Railroads generally throughout the United States are offering spe- cial reduced rates or excursion fares for students travelling dur- ing the holidays. Briefly, these tickets are good from a student's home to the school, and then back home again, and the licket can not be purchased until the student reaches his home town depot. How- ever, one can purchase such a ticl{et with the return half being valid over a long period of time. On the whole, these Student Tick- ets are a definite economy. Fur- ther information can be obtained from the local ticket office. FOR MEN'S SPORT TOG Hark! The Herald Angels . • • The above scene was taken dur- rector Doctor Elmer Tidmarsh has lng the annual Christmas Carol led at Union. The Chapel was :fill- singing last Simday night in Me- ed with an ove-rt:low erowd of par- moria! Cha,pel. The songfest was ticipating carolers. the twenty-fifth one that Music Di- Photo by Robert Navias University in Good Shape, Davidson States to Alumni \The year 1948 wll mark the Diamond Jubilee of Union University, the institution of higher learning founded in 1873 to unite the fortunes of Union College, founded in 1795, with those of Albany 1\Iedical College (1839), the University of Albany (1851) thereafter called the Albany Law School, and the Dudley Observation (1825) .\ Needs Reported ~-------------- So began the speech given by Dr. Carter Davidson to the New York Alumni of Union on Decem- ber 11, 1947. Dr. Davidson con- tinued by saying that \in 1881 the Albany College of Pharmacy was founded and later became another branch of this university, and in 1944 the Union University Board of Governors established a Union University School of Nursing.\ He remarked that. in spite of its title, the university has been an or- ganization with very loose ties, but that now pressure is incteasing for the implementation and strength- ening of the university set-up. He added that the forthcoming report of the state commission studying the question of a state university has brought forth requests from the alumni of the various colleges for the increased circulation of publicity concerning the Union University. Dr. Davidson mentioned several problems that need to be solved. These included the need for a graduate school, a college of den- tistry and the agitation from local groups for the establishment of a women's college in Schenec- tady, He concluded by saying that Union is now one of the most pleasant and effective small col- leges in the country, and that proper expansion of the Univet·sity would enable it to increase its functions without losing the highly desirable small college program. (~~~~~~~~~~~~ .m~rry Xman I l?i:lll9.iJWJi~~~~~~~}1!f.l~)t SHOP REFRESHED HAVE A COCA-COLA PLEASE return empty bottles promptly 8011LED UNDER AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA·COLA !30TTLING CO. \ '1J 1947, Tho Coca·Colo Company FIUDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1947 Fifty Volunteer to Aid State Labor Dept. Survey • zn Approximately fifty students from Union _Colle~e have ':0l11;nteered to help the New York State Department of Labor carry out an mtens1ve q1;1estwnmg :program next term en the subject of the new Equal Pay law. pass~d b~' the _Legislature this ~ear.. The survey will include all employers in the _Cap~tol _D1stnct, estimated at about. five hun~red. T_he law, guaranteeing against discrilmnatwn m.P~;)· rates because of sex, IS now b~mg studied to ascertain whether employers know that 1tis on the books, and also te see 1f they are complying with it. Not Even Chapel C1'edit __ :.._ ___________________ ~--------'<% The work is a purely voJ.untary N • I IF c u b ld · basis, with students from classes · at1ona ·. p . 0 s' taught by Prof. Joseph Rotundo, · · • ·. . · .• • · . · Prof. J. J. Anderson and Prof. A. K. Davis offering to do the job. D e • • t• F ature· The only pay is in experience. . lSCrlmina lOll e . These students will interview an employers ·in the area, whether or Discrimination came in for an$ not they employ both men and women at the present time. uncomfortable amount of publicity, procedure and that to abolish it The investigation will be com- following a brisk discussion on the would deal a severe blow to the pletely confidential with no names pros and cons of th~ discriminati~n very nature of fraternities. The being taken by the interviewers. feature of fratermty membership distinctive feature of the footer-, at the National Interfraternity Con- nity distinguishing it from other The idea is that of ·educating the ference held at the Hotel Commo- groups is its membership discrimi- employer rather than policing him. dore in New York City on the t'on Employers will be notified through weekend of November 20, attended na I • newspaper articles, messages from by Dean C. W. Huntley and Mr. The Dean in his 1:eport to the the Chamber of Commerce and cir- Wilford Ketz. Un-ion lFC touched on the discus- · culars from various merchants as\ The Union fraternity men r-epre- sion, in which he participated, con- sociations, of the purpose of the senting the IFC were MalcoLm cerning Subversive Activities in the campaign. Hopkins, Chi Psi; Donald Blake, American college. While it was The majority of the larger cor- Phi Delta Theta; and William stated that only a few of the large· porations are well aware of the Grant of Delta Upsilon. Reports colleges were caused any worry in law and are complying with it. were forthcoming from these men this matter, it was emphasized that The small businessman who em- and they were distributed at the liberal groups should not be con- ploys only a few people is a person IFC meeting of last week. fused with subversive groups. that the Labor Department is try- The general theme of the con- Mr. Ketz, in his report, dealt with ing to reach and inform. vention was - better public rela- statements that were made at the Union One of First to Aid lions-Statistics show that, con- conference in regard to the demo- A similar survey was conducted trary to the predictions of critics of cratic nature of the fraternity sys- last spring in the Syracuse area fraternities, the influx of veterans tern, as well as a report on the with students from Syracuse Uni- te the campus has seen the great- Graduate Section of the conference. versity making the calla and asl\- est growth ·Of fraternity member- His report included a statement ing the questions. Hamilton Col- ship, both individual chapters and that-Fraternities have the right lege and the University of Roch- in the establishment of new chap- to select their friends but they ester will be conducting campaigns ters, in the history of fraternities. cannot and should not pre-judge at the same time that we do. The The topics under discussion at the groups because of race, creed or pioneer group at Syracuse was undergraduate conference were color. It is democratic to have the very successful and may repeat the varied and many, with certain ones right to be restrictive. That is the program again this spring. receiving more attention than oth- distinctive feature between groups The bill, sponsored by many em- ers, excessive drinking, pledging, and fraternities-Mr. Ketz' report players and originated by Honor- relations with neutrals, etc. The also included the words of the able Jane H. Todd, was supported most controversial discussion was President of Da1-tmouth who has by many organizations in the state, in regard to the discrimination said, \Liberal Arts Colleges cannot mainly women's clubs. It has two feature in granting membership consider a fraternity an adjunct of purposes, that of guaranteeing into fraternities. Wbile nothing the college if it is discriminatory. wom-en a fair wage when doing the definite was arrived at in the form Thirty-two percent of the national same \\'Ork that a man does and of national policy, discrimination fraternities have discriminatory also that of protecting the' men was upheld as being a democratic clauses.\ from having jobs cut from under them by women working for lower Heck Outlines Principles to Follow w?~s~mmittee has been formed of prominent men and women in the area to coordinate and publicize the campaign. Among those on this committee are Dr. Larrabee, Profs. Rotundo, Anderson and Davis. The first meeting ~f the group was held last week in Hale House when Commissioner Hunter of the State Labor Department outlined the project and Miss Todd expanded the subj.ect, giving background information and in- structions. The Honorable Oswald D. Heck,~ . . Union alumnus graduate of Albany mfluence upon public hfe, Mr. Heck Law School t;ustee of Union Col- explained to the society the obliga- lege, and sp~aker of the N·ew York tion of seryice whic~ the lawy~r State Assembly addressed the so- ow.es to soc1ety. He tllustra.ted his ciety at its regular fortnightly pomts by refere~ces to ht~ o~n meeting, in the English reading career a~d ex~lamed c:rtam pit- room of Bailey Hall Wednesday falls whtch hts expenence has ' taught him should be avoided. He Speaking to a capacity audience also set down a set of principles Mr. Heck spoke on the topic \The which might service to guide a Lawyer in Public Life\. Based on young lawyer who is interested in his own wide experience and great public life. ~ ~ GENERAl ELECTRIC J L CHEMICAL ENGINEER The Story of John Stiefel After receiving his B.S. in chemical engineering at the University of Illinois in 19~2, John Stiefel vv:ent inr.o the Army Chem1cal Corps, landed In the Sixth wave on D-Day, mortared the Nazis, got mortared h1mself, and came out with a Purple Heart a Bronze Star and a. great eagerness to ge~ back to the pracuce of non-destructive chemistry. He spent three weeks travelling from one employment interview to another. In the end he dedd~d on G_e~er~l Electric-partic- ularly the Atr Condltlomng Department in Bloomfield, N.J. . \I figured,\ ~e says, \that a company l1~e G.E.~ grov;nng outside of purely elec- trical proJect~ Into. such chemically based fields as atomics, paints, and plastics, would offer all the chemical opportunities I would WD~nt. I wasn't wrong.\ At Bloomfield, John has helped staff the Wo:ks Laboratory and plan its expansion. He IS now the laboratory'sChemical Section Hea~ and a consultant on chemical engi- neenng problems for the Department. With furt~er expansion underway in personnel, equ1pment and .floor space, John's job grows steadily. For you.r copy of \Careers in the Elec- trical Industry,\ write to Dept. 237-6 General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. y: A chem engineering maier at Illinois, John is now shaping up a chemical career in the G-E Air Conditioning Department As commander of Company A of the 87th Chemical Mortar Battalion, John hit the beaches early on D-Day, won five battle stars GENERAL~ILECTRIC FRIDAY Two T-oni' • ·Emergil first two basketbal·l to make Dutchmen St. Lawre at the Al Last Y· Laurentia: heavy en< Lawrence eleven wiJ season an Larries ha St. Michal McGill 63- In previ Larries h1 Pl'!-Y very fense. T: breaks an• offense tl speedy qu Coach R renee was by the ~ scorers of Both J vidual hig last year Hawkins, squad last However, the sharp O'Rourke Masconi , and John: ers to his other Larr Van SlykE basket wil Van Slyke team's 44 J Both tea in size and contest wil ed contest. Starting forwards, < Slyke, 5' 1 guards, K 5' 10\. Cpach Pe to use the has used i! UnioJ Coach f opened the night at t and pulled VOLLEYB, Volleybal through DE . E K N 15,: Sig Chi 1 Alpha De 6, 5. t Black FIE Schedule Jan. 6-B Jan. 7-P Jan. 8-B Jan. 9-B Jan.10-J Volleyball 17: t Phi Gamma Chi Psi ... Pbl Sig De Delta U, ... Black Fleet Psi U ..... Kappa A •. Sig Phi ... Kappa Sig E Sig Chi Beta Theta Delta Phi . Kappa Nu Alpha DeiU Phi Sig Ka Delta Chi . Theta Delt' Basketbal through De N~ Delta U 3 Sig Phi 1 Blaak Fle Chi Psi 1 Ramblers For See < Willie 601 A UT4

947 en are sses . A. job. nee. all or and the cir- as~ the cor- the it. em- son try- the em- ate, two the of the on the ent in- FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1'9, 1947 5 Union Against Larries; Looking for Third Win ~-·------------------------- Two T e·ams Even:ly Matched in TiJt Ton,i ght; Close Contest .in Offi!ng ·By Herb Saxe Action Against Vermont Union vs. Vermont -Emerging victorious from their· first two contests Union College's basketbaHers will be out tonight to make it three f.n a row. The Dutchmen will be playing host to St. Lawrence at 8:30 this evening at the Alumni Gymnasium. ll'nlon Schultz Bartlett Pemrick Roberts Markes Grant Lenneck G F P 'Vermont G ·F P 3 3 9 Henderson 5 4 14 1 0 2 Pierce 2 3 7 3 6 12 Niemann 2 0 4 2 1 5 York 0 1 1 Last year's contest with the Laurentians found Union <Jn the heavy end of a 36-32 score. St. Lawrence had a season total of eleven wins and twelve losses last season and thus far this year the Larries have defeated Hobart 44-37, St. Michaels of Vermont 60-37 and 0 2 2 Livingston 1 2 4 3 0 4 Houston .1 1 3j 2 0 4 Coll:er 2 o 4 Cook l 0 2 Farma 0 0 0 Rosa 000 Totals 14 12 40 Totals 14 11 39 Union vs. Williams McGill 63-48. Union 0 F P Wllllams G FP Schultz 3 2 8 Dltmar 4 1 9 Len neck 0 0 0 Bush 5 2 12 Bartlett 4 0 8 Mason 2 6 10 Pemrick 6 5 17 Baldwin 0 0 0 Roberts 3 2 8 Wideman 1 1 3 G~ant 1 1 3 Brownell 2 4 8 Markes 1 2 4 Dave 1 0 2 In previous games this year the Larries have displayed a style of pla,y very siinilar to Union's of- fense. Taking advantage of fast· ---~----------­ breaks and working fmm a screen Totals 18 12 48 Totals 15 14 44 . offense the Laurentians have a defeat a favored University of Ver- speedy quintet this season. mont quintet, 40-39. Coach Ron Burkman of St. Law- Union opened the scoring when renee was handicapped this year Dick Roberts rang up a foul shot by the graduation of two top in the opening moments of the scorers of last year's squad. game to give Union a lead she Both J·ohn M a s co n i, lndi- would never loose. vidual high scorer for the Larries Through the entire game it was last year with 196 tallies and Ted Union's inability to capitalize on Hawk:ins, captain of the Larrie the charity shots that nearly lost squad last year, have left school. the Dutchmen their initial contest. Howevet·, Union may well beware In the entire tilt the Garnet was the sharp shooting ability of Bill only able to convert 12 of its 29 O'Rourke who was second only to attempted foul shots. Masconi with 186 earned points Anxiety g.ripped Union fans when and John Moro who had 112 mark- Garnet Captain Jim Pemrick dove ers to his credit last season. An- into the stands m an attempt to other Larrie to be watched is Bob • save a ball that was going out in Van Slyke who has been going the opening moments of the game. basket wild this season. It was· Though he suffered a serious back Van Slyke who tallied 22 of his bruise the Garnet captain came team's 44 points against St. Mikes. back, played almost the entire Both teams are almost the same· game and ended up high scorer for in size and weight; so that tonight's the Dutchmen. contest will be a very evenly match- ed contest. Starting for the Larries will be: forwards, O'Rourke, 6' !\ and Va,n Slyke, 5' 10\; center,. Moro, 6' 3\; guards, Kuell, 6' 0\ and Cioffi, 5' 10\. Cpach Pete Nistad of Union plans to use the same starting lineup he has used in previous games. Union Upsets Vermont Coach Pete Nistad's hoopsters opened their season last Saturday night at the Alumni Gymnasium and pulled a last minute stand to rn a frenzied last five minutes of play which found the Garnet minus \Whitey\ Markes and the Catamounts minus Ken Pierce and AI Neiman via the foul route, Ver-. mont tried shot after : shot in a vain attempt to overcome Union's hairline margin. Union elected to take ,the hail out of bounds instead of trying a foul shot in the last 50 seconds of play; but the Catamounts stole the ball and nearly stole the game while Garnet rooters sat on the edges of their seats and chewed theit· fingernails. The final Ver- mont ta:lly came in the last 8 sec- onds of play when Sam Houston sank a desperate hook shot. Final score, Union 40, Vermont 89. Union Shades Williams Coming from their first win after shading Vermont 40-39 the Union college hoopsters edged out Wil- liams last Wednesday nigbt 48-44 t-o make it two in a row. By virtue of this victory the Dutchmen gained their 21st vic- tory in 32 court battles between the two schools. Williams has won 11 of the games and there have been no ties. Going onto the last quarter on the heavy end of a 36-26 tally, the Dutchmen found themselves being desperately pressed by the deter- Photo by Arthur Conen Varsity Swimmers Tackle Freshmen Coach Ray Mullane's Freshman .and Varsity swimmers held a prac- tice meet this past Tuesday eve- ning in preparation for the opener January 9 with Rochester in the newly renovated Foote Memorial Pool. This practice meet was the first time-trial this season. The late start in practice this year is a handicap that cannot be overlooked. However, several mem- bers of the team showed up well in Tuesday's trials. mined Ephmen, who almost sal- J ~ I vaged a win. The Purple quintet 0 t ·t 1 n g s reauy began to pepper the basket and with only three and one-half -----------'· minutes of p!ay left the Garnet Intramural In the sprints, Mike Sarna!, John Isbister, Harry Kuniholm, and Crawford Fritts looked good. Out- standing in the breaststroke were Joe Tafel, Arnold Gattie, and Bob Diamond. In the distance events, Jim Courter, Roy Clark, Gene Benman, Baldwin, and Frank Walker showed up best. Bob Al- bright, Dick Johnson. and Paul Sheridan were ·best in the diving trials. VOLLEYBALL INTRAMURALS Volieyball results past week through Dec. 17: Eastern League K N 15, 15; Phi Delt. 9, 3. Sig Chi 15, 15; Delta Chi 10, 10. Alpha Delt. 15, 15; Phi Si151 Kappa 6, 5. United League Black Fleet 2, Psi U 0 (forfeit) Schedule for week after vacation: Jan. 6-KA-Sig Phi. Jan. 7-Phi Sig Delt..Delta U. Jan. 8-Betas-K N. Jan. 9--Kappa Sig-Phi Gam. Jan. 10-Alpha Delt-Theta Delt. Volleyball standing through Dec. 17: United League Phi Gamma Delta .... . Chi Psi ............. . Phi Sig Delt. ........ . Delta U .......•..•.... Black Fleet •......... Psi U ............... . Kappa A •.......•...• Sig Phi ............•. Won Lost 1 0 2 0 American League Delta Phi 32, Wildcats 18. Phi Delt 41, Delta Chi 17. Kappa Sig 35, Psi U 19. Alpha Delt 21, Nite Owls 14. Betas 2, Psi U 0. (Forfeit) Basketball schedule for after va- cation: Jan. 6--K A-DU, Phi Sig. Delt.- Sig Phi, Theta ,Delt-Phi Sig Kappa. Jan. 7-K N-Delta Chi, Sig Chi- Black Fleet, Kappa Sig-V5. Jan. 9--Ph! Delt-Delta Phi, Betas- Wildcats, Phi Gam-Delta U. Jan. 10 - Ramblers-Theta Delt, Old Gym-Sig Phi, Chi Psi-Black Fleet, Alpha Delt-Delta Chi. Basketball standings t h r o u g h Dec. 17: National League Won Chi Psi . . . .. . . .. . . .. . 5 Black Fleet . . . . . • . .. . 3 Delta U . . . . . .. .. . . .. . 3 Sig Chi . .. .. .. .. . . ... 3 Phi Gam Delt . .. • • .. . 3 Phi Sig Delta. .. . . . .. . 2 Old Gym . ........... 2 Lost 0 0 1 2 2 2 3 Kappa Sig .......... . Eastern League 2 0 2 0 1 1 1 2 0 2 0 2 0 2 · Ramblers . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 3 Sig Chi ............. . Beta Theta Pi ...•.•• Delta Phi ........... . Kappa Nu .......... . Alpha Delta Phi. .... . Phi Sig Kappa ..... . Delta Chi ........•... Theta Delt Chi ....... . Basketball results through Dec. 17: Won 3 2 2 2 1 0 0 0 past National League Delta U 34, Theta Delt 23. Lost 0 0 0 0 2 2 3 2 week Sig Phi 18, Phi Slg Kappa 13. Blaak Fleet 39, Kappa Alpha 9. Chi Psi 19, Phi Gamma 15. Ramblers 31, Old Gym 21l. For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 60 I Union Street AUTO SER. VICE Sig Phi . . . .. . . •• . . ... 1 Theta Delt Chi .. . . .. • 1 Kappa Alpha . . . . . .. . 1 Phi Sig Kappa. . . . . . . . 0 American League Alpha Delta Phi ..... . Beta Theta Phi ..•...• Kappa Nu ........•.• Delta Phi ........... . Kappa Sig: .......... . Phi Delta Theta ..... . Nite Owls •........... Delta Chi ........... . Wildcats ••..•. · .... .. v 5 ................. .. I Psi u ............... . Won 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 1 0 0 0 2 3 4 4 Lost 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 3 4 4 5 NOTT RESTAURANT and BAR • Rlgflf Outside Green Gate WINES - LI9UORS and BEER found itself with only a scant 5 point margin. At this point both teams lost their star playmakers and there was nor further scoring, Final score, Union 48, Williams 44. Five of these men, namely, Is- ,, When you go home for the holidays say ~~Merry Christmas}' ~. J. An Arrow shirt. White or striped. A petfect gift! for DAD the Arrow way! 2. An An ow Sports Shirt. Handsome, warm, rugged. for BROTHER 3. A few selected Arrow ties. Stripes, jo11lards or knits. Don' I forget you~self I !RllB BOOKtE'l'-Write for yQur free guide to bette! dress, \The What. When lltld Wear of Me11's Clothing.\ Address College Dept., Cluett, Peabody & Co,, Inc,, N. Y. 16, N. Y. ARROW. SHIRTS ancl TIES ~~------------~-------~--------------~ UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SP.ORTS s;~IRTS Recently Formed Block U Society Elects Officers of Organization Bill Grant was elected president<®>-------~ ----- of the newly formed Block U Su- 1 ciety during the organizational Block V banquet that \Iii! be held meeting held recently in the Tro- later in the year, probably next phy room of the Alumni Gym- Spring. It has also been proposed . nasium. Other officers elected thut the various Athletic awards were: Tony Cappola, vice presi- for the year will be presented dur- . dent; John DeBello, secretary; and ing this banquet. Dick Roberts Dick Roberts, treasurer. Faculty haR hePn plac·c>d i.n charge of this adviser for the society is Dick propoRal. Discussion has abo been Balch, '41. held concerning the awarding of individual lN!Pr,; for each sport, P\'Pry y<'nr that the· plnyer is eligible for such an award. This wns nppro\\<'d by tlw Suciety, and the propo,.,ition is now before the StudPnt Affaiz·s Committee. It was also brought to thP ntt<>ntion of the Society that a physician serving in an official capacity should be present at all intercollegiate sport events. The Block U Society is open to all those who have won a letter in school, whether they are grad- uates or undergraduates. The So- ciety was organized to promote cooperation and to act as a medi- ary b€tween the Student Body and the Administration in reference to all sports, intercollegiate or intra- mural. All students who have questions relating to the various sport activities of the college are urged to present their queries to a member of the Society for dis- cussion. Plans are now in progress for a General registration in the So- ciety will be held at 12:45 on Jan- uary 5th, and all Block U holders are requested to be present in the Trophy room of the Gymnasium. Winter Sports Schedule VARSITY BASKETBALL Jan. 9 At Stevens 10 At Brooklyn 30 At Clarkson 31 At St. Lawrence Feb. 4 Wesleyan 7 Hamilton 11 At Middlebury 18 RPI 21 Hobart 25 Mohawk 28 At Hamilton Mar. 3 At RPI 6 Trinity FRESHMAN BASKETBALL Feb. 4 State Teachers 7 Hamilton 11 At Middlebury 18 RPI 21 At State Teachers 25 Cobleskill 28 At Hamilton Mar. 3 At RPI VARSITY HOCKEY Jan. 1-3 Hamilton Tournament 10 Williams 24 At Hamilton 28 Middlebury Feb. 2 St. Lawrence 7 Champlain 12 At Middlebury 21 At Champlain VARSITY SWIMMING Jan. 9 Rochester 10 At Hamilton bister, Diamond, Cornell, Baldwin, and Walker, are first term fresh- men, and therefore unable to com- pete in intercollegiate competition Feb. 6 Hamilton 13 McGill 14 At Brooklyn Poly 21 At Rochester 27 At Trinity Mar. 5 At Colgate 12 RPI Note for Soccer Fans By winding up their season with three successive wins, the Col- legians, the Uni'ecognized Union soccer team, finished with an over- ail record of three wins, two losses, and a tie. The Garnet booters de- feated Amsterdam, Duanesburg, and Schenectady, and lost to Al- bany and Mayfield, and tied with Schenectady. The Collegians tied for third in the Reserve Division Soccer League, a six team circuit. For the campaign, the soccermen scored a total of 17 goals while holding the opposition to 11. The Committee on Student Affairs and Relations has given a recommendation to President Car- ter Davidson that soccer be estab- lished at Union as an official sport. Final action on this subject is not expected until later in the school year. with the varsity men. However, Coach Mullane exp€cts them to be valuable material for next year's team. DONE YOUR CHRISTMAS If not, you can do some of your shopping right here and now! SHOPPING? 1. A trim warm Arrow sports shirt would be just the ticket to give Dad. ' 2. Brother would appreciate a couple of Arrow college neckties~stripes, plaids or foulards. 3. Uncle Jay-the rich one-would probably beam over a box of fine white Arrow handkerchiefs with his initial in the corner. NUSBAUM'S A~ROW SHIRTS liND TIES

6 FRIDAY, DECEMB-ER '1'9, -1947 The Situation is Grave • • • and Blacker Yet It Gets! Lawmakers and otherwise ord~~----------------------------·----------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------­ nary citizens have discovered that our colleges are \riddled with Com- munism,\ and that revolutionary political theories threaten to under- mine our democracy, our capital- ism and our homes. There is indeed enought Commun- ism in our colleges to supply Con- gress with months of oratory. Their meetings are no coke-and- soda outlets for effervescent juv- enile opinions. When they find rmt they want action. I found Com- munist-front organizations and others which front for Stassen, Taft and Truman. The coi'lege of 1947 little resembles the prewar in- stitution. At one swank Sigma Chi house where Negro waiters have al- ways been employed, meals are now served by working fraternity bro- thers, who suffer no social stigma. The contestants, also students, were two Arabs and two Jews. Though students shun tradition• a! campus activities because as the Dean of Minnesota put it, \They- 're too grown up to play with paper dolls,\ they can take action when necessary. When rents were jacked up at Columbia, Mo., student Gene Smemo got on the local OPA Tax Report (Continued from Page 1) mit a survey form to the student body at one of the assemblies next spring to determine what action meets with its approval. The Tax Committee announced the appoint- ment of James Hogeboom as chair- man, to take off1ce in February 19413 upon the graduation of K. K. Klim. In a survey conducted to deter- mine the feeling of the members of the periodical staffs who would be affected by the abolition of the cut system, the feeling was ex- pt·essed that this measure would cause degeneration of their respec- tive publications. The cut is an in- centive for students to participate in these activities, although it is meager recompense for the amount of work required. One student fig- ured his wages at about 3 cents an hour, for which he worked an average of 14 hours a week. In a consideration of this matter two years ago, the Student Council con- sidered that the resultant .saving in this matter was not worth the , results mentioned. ---o--- KAPPA NU (Cont.) (Continued from Page 1) ter, headed by Gerald Bongard, and Stanley Puskanzer, is working hand-in-glove with the local grad- uate committee. They will be aid- ed by Kappa Nu Chapter of R.P.I. Events included on the agenda are; Saturday, December 27; Regis- tration, meeting, and reception for the ladies in the afternoon. Dinner dance for members and their guests at Shal\er Ridge Coun- try Club in the evening. On the plains of hesitation bleach the bones of countless millions who at the dawn of victory sat down to rest and resting, died. LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sic~\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET MILK Vitamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE 6-2351 board, forced the resignation of two other members, demanded a Washington investigation and ef- fected a general reduction. One house will give its party ex- clusively for Negro children. Saxby and Spittler's explanation of how theil• club happened to be Republican is typical of modern freewheeling. This material has been lifted from Collier's maga- zine. The Senator Was on the Spot His imagination was fired. Young W ooford began a campaign for this ideal in the Scarsdale High schoQl. After many disappointments he finally organized a chapter of the Student World Federalists. \If I hadn't been in the bathtub,\ says Harris, \I'd have tuned in a jazz band or shut the radio off. But I was in the tub, and I had to lis- ten,\ The Senator WAS on a Spot or Exiled from the Campus Remarked one observer; \Hot bed of Communism indeed. Chi- cago is just a hot bed of precocity.\ One problem was typical. If I hadn't been in the bathtub rd have tuned in a jazz band or shut the radio off. But I was in the tub and I had to listen, had to listen, had to listen, had to listen, had to listen. \That he told Bob Pierce, laugh- ing, \will cost you $700,000.\ He turned up the radio, filled the tub and climbed in. I wondered how down-to-earth student poli- ticians can get. Occasionally the tactics uf conservatives in sqash- ing \lPftists\ opposition would win the approval of a commisar. In two regions involving seven southern states, including Louisiana, South Carolina and Mississippi, Negroes have been elected regional vice presidents. (National headquarters advises student chapters to \Meet the campus big shots. They can help you.\ \Don't forget the lesser 'wheels, Their support is import- ant.\ \Work with religious groups.\ \Don't overlook the faculty.\ \Ser- vice new students with lists of the best eating places, cleaners and laundries.\) \After I heard that,'' a student told me, \I stopped worr-ying.\ If I hadn't been in the bathtub, I'd have turned on a jazz program or extinguished the radio. • The Senator Was on the Spot Carols, No Beer Carols and bee!' don't mix, thinks Mr. Davis, and he tells of a mid- westren brewery which brought serious criticism upon itself by sending out a sound truck to play Christmas carols during the Yule- tide! French Student (Continued from Page 1) for greater purchasing power In francs for many persons are eager to acquire American currency. Jean continued, saying that the individual students likes and abil- ities will tell him how to spend the vacation most profitably. Jean's words to the wise concerning pub crawling were, \A better way is to stay away for a while from hunt- ing the night spots.\ Talking with the natives and practicing French will give you more knowledge and more fun. Some universities will offer summer sessions intended for the foreign student. Details con- cerning this opportunity can be Idol obtained from the Institute of In- ternational Education located in (Continued from Page 1) New York City at 2 West 45th more than likely the product of Street. his facile pen and penetrating ------------------------------ mind. As the Editor he will be able to devote some time to cre- ative effort other than the edi- torials and reviews. Charles De Matteo, a long time contributor to the Idol with short stories being his forte is also well qualified for his new position. De Matteo also an English major is quite versatile in the literary field, being equally able to create fiction, plays or musicals with -an apparent -ease. An excellent pianist, he will more than likely add the artist's touch to future issues of the Idol. George W. Zopf, Jr., a Mounte- banks director with a bent towards the literary, is a Chemistry major. Talent plus originality mark this middle westerner whose skill will greatly add to the literary merit of the publication. No Finer Place to Eat Try Us On Your Next Date * PELOP'S 438 STATE ST. (Near Proctor's) FRENCH CLEANERS and DYERS 129 JAY STREET • \Reliable Service\ • Phone 6-4295 W HETHER you play basketball or are one of its host of enthusiastic fans, you will enjoy the re- freshing flavor of .. , Beech-Nut Ciu m. Everywhere it goes, the assur- ance of Beech-Nut for fine flavor goes with it. COLONIAL ICE CREAM CO. Ice Cream af Its Best I 34 Mohawk Avenue Phone 6-3443 Scotia That FirSt Glass current rate of consumption, (TB?) former Secretary of War, Mr. Pat- Choctaw County, Alabama, re- terson., is acting as Special Counsel \Could the youth to whom the cently voted· dry! for the Distillers' :(nstitute ... Mr. flavor of his first glass was delic- Chicago Daily NEWS, 10-18-47: Patterson has always been quite ious, look into my desolation and \Jail , 63 Drunks on West Madison. wet and duri·n.g the recent war, the be made to nnderstand what a Street.\ The total for two days. drys would gladly have traded him dreary thing it is when a rna~· was ],1 1 (a good round number) off for another Newton Baker and feels himself going down a prem- · f' d liar· to boot (Now · Note to Vets' Wives Club · given !Ve o · s . , pice with open eye and passive isn't that going TOO far). will to see his destruction and not A story in the ATLANTA CON- to have the power of will to stop STITUT.ION reports the serious We have quoted directly fr·om it, and yet to feel it aJ.I the way concern of veterans' organizations the CLIPSHEET of the Board of emanating from himseif, to per- because of the number of veterans Temperance of the Methodist ceive all goodness emptied out of who are developing addiction to Church, 100 Maryland Avenue N.E., him, and, yet not be able to forget alcohol. ·one organization leader Washington, D.C. (Bored?) the time when it was otherwise- has suggested that Congress make Incidentally, while detailing per- HOW HE WOULD AVOID THAT a study of the matter (Good L0rd!. fulent topics, more than 8,300 new FIRST GLASS!\ Move over ParneH) and the story freight cars were produced dul'ing Regret says that one \school ·of thought\ October! \I wouldn't have done it but for among veterans is inclined to the And in finishing the job, we liquor,\ said a woman on her way view that alcoholism should be again qaote fr.om the prophetic to the penitentiary. How many rated as a disability arising out of CLIPSHEET; \Schenley announces thousands of times have these' military service and hence to be its .plans to make a sp·ecial play words been uttered! And how f1:e- compensated. (What! No Purple for the Christmas trade. So wiJ.l quently are they true! (How true). Hearf!) many other liquor concerns. Hap_Qy On the Brighter Side · Union Worthy Goes Bad I Days! Holly, mistletor, Christmas The amounts of whiskey now in The BEVERAGE RETAILER Carols, liquor, murder, rape, may- storage would last for years at ~be WEEKLY, 12-1-4:7, reports that the hem and riot. Merry Christmas!\ \I FIND CHESTERFIELDS GIVE ME THE MOST SMOKING PLEASURE 11 STAR OF THB HAl. WALLIS PRODUCTION FOR PARAMOUNT RBI.BASB \I WALK ALONE\ A!tuaysB~ ESTERFIELD A ALWAYS .MILDER } l-r~ B BETTER TASTIN.G Ritt.ll\' ' fjedt_ ~. V COOLER SMOKING. ti}odJ& 74~H VOL. 70, M The. Wo1 Pre~ Iligh-li: \Veekend will Le tl ~e!ltation a sel\ies < now m I'• ]{obbins rerting·, I prod urtio To ThP fir' :I'IiOHPt'', h orh.:in ally r banks. last Dramn Fe llUgP SUCCl nt that tim t1> hring t Pf'l mpus. I. of Alhnny speerh anc High SC'ho female len hAndJp thf' nusly appPf nge Home Hugh Wisr th<> thPn!Pr \'\Va:ys ar hy Noel Co of nine or title \Tonig at the Nnt York City Pd y providt for Jane C1 tndy Civic with the M' time. Lilli 'Wilson, anl all appeari1 ::v:Jounteban~ male roles. Cassidy, a heretofore assistants t, tions, move ~<cene activi1 as supportir John At·kle ents comple To '\Aria da Edna flt. yen rs llft P r Ra rnnt·d, n 1 in 1921 hy n mf\nters. thE This syrr.hoi that therP : interwovfln --a remarkE Mi,..s Millay. Tn shot·!, penrs as a from benPnl nnalysi:> of filling humn Jncquelin\ C Ha 11 for the IC'nnti Win~ To B. Old Man 1 on the cam Winlet· Wee place Febt·u: formal dane. traction on Alumni Gvrr Earl Stridkl: will be fentu dance itself material wh Esquire mag ma,terial sho the eye of I a like. To ll Winter Wee plans under• biti on in sn o vantage· poin The week<' an annua.] a by a eomn Council nus l'C'g- isterf'd tl prPssed c',esil end by mear ing the latt To keep the means of all

j i I : f : I 6 FRII)AY •. · PEOEMDfR', ·r9:i· 1. 947 The and Blac·ke·r···.·Y~ft. Getsr It Situation • lS Grave • • • Lawmakers and other~se ord~~·~------------------~~----------------------~---------M--~--~--~~~------------------~------------~~--------~----~--~------------------------~ l,lary citizens have discovered that current rate of consumption, (TBt> . fqrmer Secretary of War, Mi:>; Pat- our colleg· es are \rl'ddle· d w 1 'th com-· board, forced the resignation of d'arolina and· Mi1lsissippi, Negroes ' That F.llilt Glass · · t · t' · s · ' c · 1 Choctaw P. o~nty, AhtJ:Ia.ma, re-: ,.erson, IS acing as pem!l'• ounse munism,\ a. nd that revolutionary· two other members, demanded a have l:!een elected regional vice \Could the youth to whom the f · th D' t'l]· ' Tn.,t 1 ·tut Mr· W h . t t ~~ • • c. ently v:oted dry! . . . · -or e ' IS 1 ei,'S· .., .... . e· .. . .. · .. P olitical theories threaten to unde.r- as mg on inves iga.: on and ef- presidents. flavor of his first gll!.SS was delle_- 1 \ 1847 -o tt b 1 b 1 te f t Chicago Daily N~W$, · u- . :, .., a erson as a wa,ys .. een qu . mine our democracy, our capital- ec ·ed a general reduction. (Natiopal ·l;leadquarters advises ious, looll: into my desolation and \Jail 63 Drunks on Wellt Ma~son, wet and ·during the recent war,.the ism and our homes. One house wiJl give its party ex- student chapters to \Meet the be made to 11 nderstand what a Street.\ ·The total for two days. dr¥s wo.uld gladly hav.e traded him There is indeed enought Commun-. elusively for Negro children. campus big .shpts. They can help d~·eary thing it Js when a m_ an. · · b ) ff' f · th N · t ·B k · d · · s b d s •ttl 1 tl , t th 1 · ·was 1-11 (a good round num:. ·'. er· . ..o. .. o~· .ano e __ r. . e_ w __ .on: · a. er a,·n. Ism m our colleges to supply Con- ax y an p1 er•s exp ana on you.\ 'Don't forge e · esser feels h.i:inse. l.f goin_g down a prem_~ d 11 t b t (N h f h t t N te to V ets' Wives Club · g1ven. f!Ye . o · a1·s , _ o · oo . ow gress wit months qf oratory. o · ow heir club happened to be 'wheels. Their support is impor -· pige ~th open eye and .lJasslve. · o . . ·LAN. T.A. C. O\T isn't that gsihg ~00 :far) .. Their meetings are no coke-and- Republican is typical of modern .ant.\ \Work witi;lreligious groups;\ will to see his destruction a11d not A sto~:y m the AT . · \'\ · . . tl soda outlets for effervescent juv- freewheeling. This material has • . overlook the faculty.\ \Ser• to have the power o:f will to stop STITUT10N reports th~ serious . We have qtw~_ed d!rec Y fvom enile opinions. When they find out ·been . lifted from Collier's new students with lists of the it, and yet to feel it all the way oncern of veteran;;'!' organizations' the CLI]\SHEE'I of the Board _of they want action. I found Com- zine. best eating places, cleaners and emanating from himself, to per- ~-ecause of the number of veterans Temperance . of .. the l\[etho.;bst D:!Unist-front organizations and The Senator Was on the Spot laundri!lS.\) ceive all goodness emptied o,ut of. h · d veloning addiction tb ·Church, 100 Maryland Avenue N.E ... th h . t h d th t\ t d t t f t wl Oh· alre Onee or\'g· an· I'z·ati'o·n· ·lead·e·r·' Washington., D.c:_ (Bored.?) o ers w 1ch front for S assen, His im!'lgination was fired. \After I ear a , a s u en him,. and; yet not be able. o orge · a co o . t lly 1 ii d t ru· _ Taft and Truman. The college of ·Young Wooford began a ~ampaign told' me, \I stopped worrying.\ the ·time when it wa,s -otherwise- has suggested that Cong;ress make' -Ineiden :\ ' w 1 _e· . e a ng per• 1947 little resembles the prewar -in- for this ideal in the scarsdale High If I hadH't been in the bathtub, HOW HE WOVLD AVOID T:aAT a study of the. matter (Good I,.ord! tin~mt top1cs, mo1•e tb~ 8,30~ ~ew stitution. At one swank Sigma Chi schoQl. After maliy disappointments I'd have -turned. on a jazz program FIRST GLASS!\ N,J:ove over Parnell) an<t the story fre1~ht cars were produced dur:~ng house where Negro waiters ·have al- he finally organized a chapter .of or extinguished the radio. • Regret says that one \school of thought\· October! ' way13 been employed, meals are now the student World FederaUsts. \If The Se~tor Was on the Spot \I wouldn't have done. it but for · amqng veterans is·' inclined to the And ih finishing the jol:l·, we· served l)y working fraternity bro- . hadn't been in the ·bathtub,\ says liquor;\ said a woman on her way view that alcoholism should be. again quote f:t'·oin the proph¢tic thers, who suffer no social Hanis, \I'd have tuned in a jazz Carols, No ~eer to the penitentiary. How :ina!lY. rat-ed as a disabili;ty arising out -of CLIJ?SHEE'P: \Sche:n:ley ·anno'\lnces The contestants, also band or shut the radio off, But Carols and beer don't mix, thinlt!,l ·thousands of times have these military service and hence to lie its pla.ns, to make a special play were two Arabs and two Jews. I was in the tub, and I had· to lis- Mr. Davis, and he teils of a mid- words peen uttered! And, how fre- compensated. (What'! No Purple. for the Christmas trade~ So will Though students shun tradition- ten.\ westren brewery which brought quently a,re they true! (f[ow tvue). E;eart'!> many ether liquor concerns. HapJ?y al campus activities .because as the The Senator WAS on a Spot serious criticism upon itself by On the BrJght~r Side Union Worthy Goes Bad Days! E;olly, mistletoe,, Christmas Dean of Jl4ihnesota put it, \They- 01 , 1 ~taHtut~:; out a sound truck to· play The amounts of whisk~y now in The BEVERAGE RETAILER Cam!~, liquor,, murder, rape, :!!lay- 're too grown up to play with. Exiled from .the Campus carols during the ¥ule- storage would last for years at the. WEEKLY, 12--1-47, reports that the. hem and riot. Merry Christin!J,s!\ dolls,'' they can take action when Remarked one observer: \Hot necessary. When rents were jacked .bed of Communism indeed. Chi- up at Columbia, Mo., student Gene is just a hot bed of precocity.\ . French· Studen .. · t Smeino got on the local OPA problem was typical. If I been in the bathtub I'd have (Continued from Page 1) Tax Report in a jazz band or shut the for greater .purch~sing power in radio off. But 1 was in the tub (Continued from Page 1) francs for many persons are eager. mit a survey form to the student' I had to listen, had to listen, to acquire American currency. body at one of the assemblies next to listen, had to listen, had to Jean continued, saying that the· S · to determine what action individual students likes and abil- . prmg · · · · \That he told Bob Pierce, laugh- meets with it.s approval. The Tax ities will tell him hoW to spend· Committee announced the appoint-. ing, \will cost you $ 7 00,000.\ the vacation most profitably. Jean's ment of James Hogeboom as chair- He turned up the radio, filled the · to the wise concerning pub t t k ff . . F b tub and climbed in. I wondered ·crawllng were, \A better way is to man, o a e 0 ICe m e ruary how down-to-earth student poli- 1948 Upon the graduat ion of K K stay a way for a: while from hunt- . · · · ticians can get. Occasionally the Klim ing the night spots.\ Talking with In ·a survey conducted to deter- tactics of conservatives in sqash~ the natives and practicing French mine the feeling of the members ing \leftists\ opposition would win will give you more knOwledge and of the periodical staffs who would the approval of a commisar. In two, more fun. Some universities will be affected by the abolition of the regions involving seven southern offer summer sessions Intended for cut system, the feeling was ex- states, including Louisiana, South the foreign student. Details con-· pressed that this m.easure would ·, cerning this opportunity can be cause degeneration of their respec- ·obtain-ed from the Institute of In- tive publications. The cut is an in- ternational Education located in centive for students to participate (Continued from Page 1) New York City at 2 West 45th in these activities, although it is more than likely the product of Street. meager recompense for the amount ·his facile pen and penetrating -------------------------- of work required. One student fig- mind. As the Editor he will be ured his wages at about 3 cents able to devote some time to ere- an hour, for which he worked an ative effort other than the edi- average of 14 hours a week. In a torials and reviews. consideration of this matter two Charles De Matteo, a long time years ago, the Student Council con- contributor to the Idol with short· side red that the resultant saving stories being his forte is_ also well in this matter was not worth the qualified for his new position. , results mentioned. De Matteo also an English major KAPPA NU {Cont.) (Continued from Page 1) ter, headed by Gerald Bongard, and Stanley Poskanzer, is working hand-in-glove with the local grad- uate committee, They will be aid- ed by Kappa Nu Chapter of R.P.L Events included on the agenda are: Saturday, December 27; Regis- tration, meeting, and reception for the ladies in the afternoon. Dinner dance for members and their guests at Shaker Ridge Coun- try Club in the evening. On the plains of hesitation bleach the bones of countless millions who at the dawn of victory sat down to rest and resting, die~. LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS- DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET MILK Vitamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE 6·2351 is quite versatile in the literary field, being equally able to create fiction, plays or musicals with an apparent ease. An excellent pianist, he will more than likely add the artist's touch to future issues of the Idol. George W. Zopf, Jr., a Mounte- banks director with a bent towards the literary, !s a Chemistry major. T·alent plus originality mark this middle westerner whose sltill will greatly add to the literary merit of the publication. No Finer Place to Eat Try Us On Your Next Date * PELOP'S 438 STATE ST. (Near Proctor's) FRENCH CLEANERS and DYERS 129 JAY STREET • \'Reliable Service\ • Phone 6-4295 COLONIAL ICE CREAM CO. Ice Cream at lfs Besf 134 Mohawk Avenue .Phone 6-3443 Scotia W HETHER you play basketball or are one of its host of enthusiastic fans, yo~ will enjoy the re- freshing flavor of ... Beech-Nut Oum. Everywhere it goes, the assur- atzce of Beech-Nut for fine flavor goes with it. \I FIND CHESTI;RFIELDS GIVE ME THE MOST SMOKING PLEASURE' 1 STAR OF THE HAL WALLIS PRODUCTION FOR PARAMOUNT RELEASE \I WALK A ALWAYS .MILDER '} JJ, BE'l'TER TASTING . . · fJ· COOLER SMOKIN'G. ·. J VOL. 7C M The WoJ Pre~ Iligh-li weekend wi]:J be t sentatio1 a senes now in 1 Houbins recting, producti< To The ft.t Minuet\ I originally banks last Drama F• huge succ at that tir to hring campus. l of Albany speech an High Scho female le: handle the ously appe age Hom Hugh Wis the> theate1 \Ways a by Noel C• of nine o title \Toni! at the Na York City edy provid for Jane C tady Civic with the .N time. Lill Wilson, an all appeari Mounteban male roles. Cassidy, ! heretofore assistants 1 tions, rnov scene activ as supporti John Ark! ents campi• T \Aria da Edna St. years afte1 Barnard. a in 1921 by f menters, th This symbc that there interwoven -a remark Miss Millay In short, pears as a from bene~ analysis of filling h urn! Jacqueline Hall for the (Cont Win; To 1 Old Man on the can: Winter We place Febn formal dan• traction on Alumni Gyr Earl Strick will be feat1 dance itself material wl Esquire rna material sh• the eye of alike. To Winter We• plans unde~ bition in sn• vantag·e poi1 The week. an annual : by a com: Council au registerf'd t pressed c·es end by mea ing the !at To keep th• means of al