1948' Phllo- liscus- Ll .Aid iebate e;ntjng rd J. and Union h. :rv.~:: 'Onald, O>nt -C. Odera- ·y and et for rs are Alex- n, ;v:ill for all lecture ~ until ~la!lses )ertain shman he lee- ley an- •ecords n; and ble ex- be re- s. The Lt part m: r State r7j me. d raise These 98 per :shave ~n! Carl l Rich- •• . ' Founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 76, No. 11 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1948 PRICE 1:0 CENTS Delta Phi Leads Gift Fund Race The Union College campus drive to raise funds for the. Memorial Field House has reached a total of $7,802.95 pledged by fraternities. Delta ~hi Highest Delta Phi, to date, has reached · the highest ]iercenta,ge of its quota in the itnerfrfaternity competition for the place of honor on a recog- nition plaque. Two other frater- nities, Phi Gamma Delta and Phi Delta Theta have reached 100 per cent participation in the drive with all of their members pledging con- tributions. Kappa Alpha has the highest individual contributor in the campus drive. Tense Moment in Rehearsal Photo by· Bob S~hwartz The Mountebanks in rehearsal for the ''Petrified Forest.\ Left to right: John Arkley, William, Herrman; Alfred Siesel, Hugh, Wissoff, Elaine Wa.llace, William Van Ost and Rai KWlkelman. Mid- Winter Dance Favored Two .. to~One John Hanna, chairman of_ the . entire campus, campaign, has an- nounced that the drive for funds is progressing well with 51 per cent of the fraternity men already on record pledging 35.34 per cent of the grand quota of $22,075. The quota for each group is arrived at by totaling $50 for each senior and $25 for each underclassman includ- ing pledges. Hanna highly com- mended Kenneth Whalen and his 18 man fraternity committee for By a vote of more than two~to-one, Union students polled their work. November 22 in Memorial Chapel favored a mid~winter dance, A plaque will be placed in the it rt d 1 t · ·ht b J p B II' h · f entrance of the field house giving was repo e as nig · Y ames · U IS, c airman o the name of the fraternity with . the student council entertainment committee. the highest percentage of its quota met and listing those who arrive a.t 100 per cent of their membership contributing. Awarding of the places of honor on the P,laque will be made as soon as all of the fra- ternities complete their own cam- paigns, Hanna said. Tabulation of fraternity stand- ings in the drive may be found on page four. Malone Teaches John J, Malone, a inember of the editorial staff of the Schenectady \Union•Star is giving a series of instr.uctions in newspaper tech- niques to the staff of The Concordi- ensis. Malone, a Union alumnus, is in his 'third of 10 weeks of lectures . and work sessions with the staff of the college paper. Purpose of the series is to provide a nucleus of well trained campus newsmen to offset the lack of interest among students in working for their pub- lications. Sessions are held in the office of The Cohcordiensis each Thursday night. Three-Way Parley Representatives of the adminis- tion, the faculty and the student body will discuss .current and future campus problems in a con- ference Sunday afternoon at. Tip- pecan-oe camp on the outskirts of Schenectady. This will be the second such conference. The first was held last spring, and on the basis of its success the coming conference and possibly future ones will be held. Besides representatives from the administrative offices and the faculty divisions, members of the student council and of the other student activities will attend. Staff Changes Student Is Saved · As Two Drown Lee W. DeGraff Jr., 20, of Fort Johnson, :N. Y., a student at Union College in the Class of 1950, escaped drowning in the Mohawk. River November 28 .by clinging to a buoy after his rowboat overturned. His two companions, James Mar- shall and Daniel Noyes, both 19, also of Fort Johnson, were dr.owned wl:).ile attempting to reach the shore, The three men were enga.g-ed in a duck hunting excursion near Am- sterdam when the accident oc- curred at about 8:30 a.m. Sunday m9rn!ng. They were returning to the north shore of the river when their boat developed a bad leak. Bailing efforts were· unsuccessful, and the craft capsized. DeGraff headed for the sbuth shore and his two companions for the north. De- Graff turned around to see his two friends go down about one hundred and fifty feet from their goal, ap- · Informal Preferred Of those who favored a Febru- ary prom, over two thirds voted for an informal dance. Of 900 votes cast, 570 were in favor of the prom, with 265 op- po!led. OI?ly those ballots which favored a winter prom were counted for the formal-informal question. Of these, 406 were in favor of an informal dance, with 210 calling for formal attire. Bullis said .that a mid-winter prom would probably be held, with one of the most important, questions that of whether it should be for- mal or informaL Another ques- tion, he said, was that of what orchestra will play at the dance. Arthur Agnello and his college dance band would be under con- sideration in view of a decision by the student council to engage Ag- nello far its next dance. In the event that no dances are held after this season's basketball games, Bullis said, Agnello would be en- gaged for a midwinter prom, ac- cording to the council ruling. 0 parently pulled under by their. LI·go· n Expects hunting equip1Uent. He then made for a river buoy, to which he clung until rescued. Marshall and Noyes Research Grant had about one-eighth of a mile to swim and covered nearly two-thirds Professor Ernest M. Ligon an- of this distance ·before going under. nounced in chapel Tuesday that he DeGraff, suffering from shock expected a large sum of money will and exposure, was hospitalized in be given to the college for the Amsterdam. The two voictims were character research project in the employed at the Mohawk Carpet near future. The gift, · said Dr. Mills. Marshall was a navy vet- ·Ligon, will probably be the largest er~n. ---o--- X-Ray Results Only 25 per cent of the 2,000 ·persons on the campus have taken advantage of the free chest ex-ray given at the Schenectady city Hall accbrding to Dr. Alexander Arony, college physician. Though the col- lege drive is over it will be pos- sible for students to have an x~ray taken during the week of Deo. 6. sum ever donated for such a proj- ect. The donor, for reasons un- stated, wishes to remain anony- mous, Ligon said, Th~ character reasearch project, started by Dr. Ligon in 1935 has steadily grown to the modern test- ing laboratory now in use. The gift announced by Dr. Ligon would al- low the project to expand its per- sonnel and equipment to provide increased facilities for character research and testing, Mountebanks Will Open Major Play Wednesday -~~---~--~--------~---~ Curtain time in Union I I College's Hanna Hall Will ·. HfZLP Drive Slated-_·. :sd~~' 3 £~t~h;·~a!~: . _ banks' first major produc~ . Independents at Union College will be asked next week tion of the season \The to consider a plan to bring foreign, students to Union under· Petrified Forest.\ the HE-LP_ plan on the same basis as fraternities now Robert Emmet Sherwood's sponsor HELP. famous play will be presented To Start Monday >$------------ . each day December 8 to 11 William Reeder and Sa)ll New- supply him with $75 a month. the under the di-rection of Jack~ comer, both independent members same amount we are receiving from D • · t t f h of. the Union College HEL_ p com- son ·avis ms rue or o speec our government. It has been sug- d t' mit tee, Will propose the plan to gested that this can be' done with and rama lCS. . the independents in the student a minimum of strain on ourselves Martin in Lead body in a letter to each student if 75 veterans would each provide c. Graham Martin, St. Andrews and in -a chapel program next Mon- the foreign student with an amount Exchange student, will portray the day. Reeder will propose a plan equal to $1 a month for the nine male lead, Alan Squier, In this part whereby veteran ind-ependents will school months: a total of $9 ~ach Martin has shown a deep under- be asked to support an ex-enemy for the school year . . . If .more standing and keen perception of country veteran, while Newcomer th~ 75 veterans would contribute, this member of the \lost genera- will approach the independent non- the donations could be reduced.\ tion.\ veteran. The college has already agreed Elaine Wallace of Schenectady, Seven fraternities at Union this to pay the tuition of the ex-enemy has been chosen to play Gabby, the year are sponsoring seven foreign veteran brought here under the in- girl who wants to go to France. students under the HELP plan. dependent sponsorship. Reeder pro- Miss Wallace has had a great deal The college is paying the tuitio!l poses that a faculty member be put of acting experience at Mont Pleas- for these students, and each fra- in charge of the money and issue ant high school and has adapted ternity is providing one of the stu- monthly checks to the foreign stu- herself quite well to this new task. dents with his room and board. dent. This monthly check would Included in the cast are William Faculty members ·have contri- take care of the student's room and Herrman, as Duke Mantes, the no- buted to an additional fund to help board. Any other expenses, such as torious gangster, and William Van defray incidental expenses. books, laundry, and travel, must be Ast, as \Gramps\ the old time Program Outlined met by the student himself. pioneer. Excerpts from Reeder's letter to The HELP Committee was or- The play is set in the luncheon- veteran independents describe the ganized last spring by a group of ette of a small gas station on the • proposal .as follows: \Our plan is fraternity 1Ueli as a beginning for edge of the desert in Arizona. Be• to bring a former enemy to this the promotion of higher education cause of this fact a great deal de- country and enable him to -attend for lasting peace. At present the ·pendens on the actors and upon Union on an equal footing with committee co1;1sists of 10 students their movements. American veterans. That is: to -and four faculty members. Tuesday night the cast will hold ----------.,.---------------------.,- a dress rehearsal performance for. Literary Fever Rages Through the Faculty By SAMUEL ROSCOE >$----------~----------- What do coll-ege professors do in . Weeks, at last report, is still busy their spare time, when school is on his creation. ' out ~nd all papers are corrected 1 The English department natur- Do they dwell in a Walden of the ally ought to be the most articulate mind's creation, more perfect than segment of the faculty. It may be the prototype because satisfaction presumed that the above mentioned and not negation has emancipated persons do not exhaust the list of them from the gnawing demands of those literaliy active. high school students and hospital nurses. This is intended to give the cast the experience of performing before an audience. Performances are scheduled for Wednesday t h r o u g h Saturday nights in Hanna HalL Tickets are on sale at the bol{ office weekdays 12:45 to 1:25 p.m. and 7:30 to 9:00 p.1U.; Saturday's from 7:30 to 9:00 p.m. There will be no sale Sunday. Students must present their stu- dent activity card while faculty members and student wives must pay 20 cents. The price for all others is $1.20, tax included. An extra performance will be given Saturday afternoon' at 2:30 p.m. This is the third time in the 25-year history of the Mountebanks that a matinee has been given. The last one was \The Gentle People,\ presented last year. o--- the ego? Or do they just revel in Doctor Ligon's effort in the field luxurious idleness? Samplings of of psychology, entitled the \Lost Union's faculty indicate th-at the Generation\ has been out long chances are better than good that enough to 'ge g-enerally known, but the typical professor is writing a not many are aware that the latest book, has jus finished a book, or associate in psychology, Clare like a lot more people than you Graves, is in process of writing a Sub- Fr. osh W'kend realize, is thinking of writing one. book-about psychology. Eugene Freel, of the same department, is Union College's annual Sub- Bertrand Wainger, associate pro- writing a tome on the psychological Freshman Weekend will be held fessor of English, back this year aspects of present day literature. ·next week, from December 10 to from sabbatical leave, has ·finished a history book· which has been ap- This should interest the English 12, One hundred and forty high proved for use as a text in New profs explosively. school students will be the guests York State schools. It is written in An int-eresting departure from of the college this year. Room and the indicated pattern is repre!;ented board will be provided for some a clear, simple styie, with many by the case of Dr. Ernest Dal of of the neophyte scholars by 17 of interesting illustrations, and the th Biology department, who is re- the colleg<''s fraternities. underlying design is to further the social ·and political awareness of turned this year hom a year's The purpose of this yearly visit the early adolescent. leave. Professor Dale chugged to the campus by high school across the continent in his 1935 seniors is to offer the men an op- Professor Harold Blodgett, chair- jalopy at the ernest behest of other portunity to see how Union oper- man of the English department, topflight geneticists (an(j. Uncle ates. During their three day stay, used his sabbatical leave to con- Sam) to the California institute of the visitors will see movies of the tribute significantly to an encyclo- technology, where he worked hard football team, visit classes and pedic treatment of American litera- and long in the fields of yellow meet members of the faculty. tur-e soon to be published. This is corn, studying some effects of Saturday evening, Pre s i d en t notable,· though not quite so sur- radioactivity. The same vehicle Carter Davidson will address the prising -as having an English pro- brought him back safely to Union. men in Hale House. Following din- feasor invoade the social studies. This is additional proof that science ner, the visitors will be guests at Associate Professor Dan i e 1 is something. the first P,ome basketball game of Several changes have been made in the editorial board of The Con- cordienais, it was a,nnounced by Georg,e T. Orick, editor, at a sta.ff Amherst Dispute Results • 1n Survey Here the season at Alumni Gymnasium. After the game, the students will get a taste of social life on the campus as guests of the fraterni- ties. meetin,g Monday. Albert Corbo has been shifted By FRANK McCOURT ®cia! consideration affecting mem-<• reason it deems fit. Some condemn ~silon, Kappa Alpha, Psi Upsilon, Dinner at the fraternity houses Sunday noon will round out the visitor;s weekend. from the position of managing The national e~cutive council of bership, including religious, racial the executiv-e council of Phi Kappa and Sigma Phi, according to roam- editor to associate editor. The Phi Kappa Psi u11animously upheld or nation-al qualiflcl!-tions are thus Psi for its alleged intolerance, hers or officers. Although there are vacancy thus created has been the action Qf their president, the concern of the fraternity itself.\ oth!'!rs say the council was per· no technical restrictions, several filled by James Murray, who was Howard I. Hamilton, recently, iii • fectly within its rights. houses indicat(ld that it would be · f L~nl Opinion Variea formerly news editor. Herbert Saxe, suspending the Amherst chapter o. \\\' ~ A check with a cross section of both a breaclj. of tradition and f~rmer sports editor, has replaced the fraternity for initiating a The action of the executive coun- Union's fraternities was made by mutual understanding to pledge a, MutTay, .Negro student, Tpomas W. Gibbs, cil of Phi Kappa Psi has aroused The Concordiensis to determine Negro. They cl-aimed that because James Ettinger will fill. the post last Tuesday. conflicting opinions here on the what rules had been set up in of the social custo1US of our times, of sports editor. Two new posi- Last Saturday, the National In· campus. Some persons fall in line their national charters concerning it would be beneficial to neither tions have been created with the · terfraternity Council decided to with what happens to be the trend race, cr-eed or color. the fraternity hor to the negro to appointment of Samuel Roscoe and leave to its member fraternities in the t~mes, the leveling of racial The majority of the fraternities offer him a pledge. Another house, William McGarry as feature editors. the right \to select its own me1Xl- barriers and traditions. Others feel queried have no such provisions in Psi Upsilon, pointed out that there The appointments are provisional bers from among\'the students of a that it is a fraternity's own bus!- their national charters. These in- are never enough Negroes attend- pending approval by the publica- university,\ with the assertion that ness, as a private organization, to c}uded Alpha Delta Phi, Beta Theta ing Union to give them a basis of tion. ,board. \the wisdom or desirability as so- 1 select qr reject a man for whatever Pa, Chi Psi, Deita Phi, Delta Up- (Continued on Page 4) 01--- Toys Requested WRUC is still conducting its drive for Christmas toys which will be repaired and distributed to in- stitutions in Schenectady which contain homeless children. Students may bring theil• contributions to the WRUC studios in Washburn Hall any time before December 14. The me~bers of the station will also give a Christmas party for the children at the County Home.

2 I , I I .. F.RIDAY,. DECEMBER 3. 1948 of cinnamon on the counter for lovers of cinnamon toast. Perhaps steps could be built to replace the steep grade at the chapel end of the Upper~ class walk, Proper sanding and shoveling of the slope during the winter months is dif- IJy James Baar The Happy Hour d tw . 0 years later·.·, 1 ·n 1939, however, aid In the actual writing, Stratton 01nrirnr In what might b~ calle a re- · t t i 1 to-cap ital he hi ~oelf was defeated and re- recalls a Taft deba e as a YP ca versa! ·of the campus- u= 1 t th · movements of many an academic tu~ned to Washington to aid in the exa,tnple of the menta· tor. ure 18 Member Associated Col- l~~;;late Press and distri' butor of the Collegiate Dige\t. :-=atiuual Adwr- tbing Represel\latlve: N<l· tional Ad Vl•rtising St.:rVlC~. inc., Coli\~\ l'ublloh..rs ltepresentative. 4~0 Mad!· son Ave .• N. Y. C. Pub· lished every Friday of the ::;chool year. F.ditorial Office! Washburn Hall. Union Co lege. Pub· l!catlon Office, T·he Ga- zette l'reBs, 334 State St. ~ntered ir\ the Schenec- tady l'oo t Offlce us Sec- oil <I Class Mail Matter, oub•cription lOc a ·Copy. $3 year : delivered any· where In the United States. . ficult if not impossible. This suggestion may· come a little late in the outdoor building season, but we like to be on record so we can assume a we-told-you-so attitude if broken bones or other injuries result from ice-falls. man during the past two decades, administration of the Wage and type of activity would put him Samuel S. Stratton, Instructor of .Hour Act. through. \After collecting and ar-- philosophy, has come to Union from Upon his return In 1940 to. run ranging the material,\ he said, he service with the federal govern- for election again, Eliot and Strat- 8at back in Washington to hear ment. When questioned on this ton, who was doing gi·aduate w~rk Eliot meet Taft over a New York point, however, he points out little at the time, came together; wtth network. it followed a pattern·. sign.ttlcance: \Trends are read into Stratton ringing doorbells for t~e Taft would give Eliot a tough ques- the world by men,\ he Informed candidate. I:n his second tl'y, Ehot tlon; you could hear Eliot rustling ~me inquirer with a smile that was carried the district •by 8,000 votes, · through my notes all the way from more political than philosophical. while Roosevelt lost it by 5,000.' New York; and aU I could do was. Uourg~ T. Ol·!clt Editor Jmnes ~Iurruy Herbert Saxe Acting Managing J::tlltul' Art!ng N·ew• Editor Alb<•rt ('urbo ancl James Bitar ,h~udate Etllt.urs JllJUes Et·tlnger Robert Heinemann It Is Rumored By R. A. NAVIAS Although S.tratton holds his post. When the new Congress m?t in sit there down in Washington ~;tnd at Union as a replacement for January, Stratton was with Eliot as scream; \Jesus it's on page four!\ Professor Philip Stanley, he gives his executive secreta'!l· One ·of the biggest coups .that th f r t fi t bl h th t the Eliot-Stratton team put over one e ee mg a rs us a \This mther vague title,\ ex- while in office was against the Dies he has. merely assumed hi.s title in plat'ns Stratton, \actually stands for · th h 1 h d t t d th t Committee, which Eliot had sing.led Acting Sports Ellltnr Picture E!lltur William ~~~linru aiHi samuel Roscoe Acting :F~ature :Editors Frnurl• )leeh!Ul {'in•ulathm llanagl'l' e p I osop _Y epar men an a 'alter ego;' You're everything that a out as a personai hate. The Cam- The rumor of the week has .more than the actually he IS ~ self-styled expert congressman should bu.t doesn't , . usual amount of truth in it. Ln fact, aimost all but ?orne to set th:mgs ar~ght. ~ok- have time to be. You help write ·bridge congressman s time came,. mg far more like a v1_c. e-pres1dent· ht's speeches·, you get hi's la·undry•, when, soon after Pearl Harbor, the .essential details are true. And· the run1or was so d th t R lt h d 1 · from the Chase National Bank .rou meet and talk to const 1 ·~uent~. Dies announce · .a· ooseve . a Lambert (llnshPrg Business ~lanuger popu ar that a variation appeared within a .few i · C itt f d I . than a college professor, well. In fact after you're 1 -nvolved In thl.S prevented the D1es omm ee rom nys. t is interesting to note how the onginal t' th t ld h d R b h t t groomed, smooth tongue_ d, in- thi'ng f'or· some tl'me. you act as an , releasing infortna 1on a wou Wh W •t? rumor was c ange . emem er t a mos rumors h D b 7 t Y al b h d 1 h b f . . .st.ructor Stratton could eastly con.-. lnsepai·able team.\ have prevented t e ecem er a- · • have een c ange · at ·east as muc e ore gammg vmce the casual observer that hiS . . tack. As· proof for this acCU13f!.· The old question of discrimination in the wide circulation. acquaintanceship with college cam- As far as the district ~hich a tion, a considerable stack of pa- f f . . h It was reported to the writer by a \usually puses is merely a nodding one. congressman represents 1 S. coh- 'pers, pictures, maps, and letters, selection of members or ratermtles as reliable source\ that Professor Harold W. Bibber, It was just this quality in Strat- cerned, it deals gener.ally wtth the all in Japanese, were presehted again come to light with the recent pledging head of the Electrical Engineering Depa.rtxhent, hac ton's ,demeanor that gave him his con~ressn:an's e~ecut_1ve secl'etary. with a tremendous map of the Pa- of a Negro to a fraternity at Amherst. been offered a position in another institution, and first opening into the political All mcommg mml, Wl~h the exce?- cific complete with circles around Human beings seem to have a tendency to that he was seriously considering accepting. that world. ''I looked so much like a tion of the extremely Important, ts Americarl bases including figures .as fol ·m oro·arll·z,·'tl\ons and brotherhoods of one offer. Seve~al days later, a second report was given Republican\ he said recently \that read and answered by the secre- the piece de resistance, ., • the writer as being the latest word. The informant I was able to help push a De~ocrat tary; most h~!lle town \friends\ are sort or another by virtue of their gregarious claimed that Professor Bibbet· was preparing to into office in a Republican dis- greeted by h1m; the favors are ad- l'tlerely on a hunch, Eliot sent nature. And in the formation of such groups retire in the near future, and that his successor had trict.\ ministered by him. Stratton ?e- Stratton to the Library of Congress it is necessary that qualifications for ac-. already been chosen from persons now in: the elec- The Democrat whom Strattort re- lieves that in his entire time w:th where he proceded to poke around E bl . h trical engineering department. The informant went fers to is ex-congressman T. H. Eliot that he got a socialite an t.n- ·the Japanese section with a few ceptance or rejection be set up. sta IS - so far as to name Professor Bibber's successor. Eliot grandson of the late Preili- traduction, an only son a_ commis- librarians. Within an hour they ment of such bases for admittance is im- In an interview with Professor Bibber, he dent' Eliot of Harvard and now a sion, and an UnCle lfranCis a pen- ·came across a 1936 copy of Go, the portant in college fraternities for the reason stated that he had received an offer of a position prominent Boston attorney. some ·sion at least once for every voter Japanese equivalent to LIFE, that fraternity brothers seek to do that In an institution which he declined to name. He years before Stratton met Eliot, in Eliot's district. Regarding the which included in its contents the h d f , said he had taken a trip at the expense of that however, the latter had entered on \opinion mail,\ the formula which· Dies Committee map; it had been which is probably the ar est 0 man S institution to look over the. set-up. But under the his own varied career in New Deal he would use was simple. In case circled and mapped in accordance tasks: living with each other in harmony. conditions of the offer, Professor Bibber said he felt washington. coming from Harvard of violent disagreement of any with United States Naval statistics Elsewhere on this page, Walter Doran, he could not leave Union College. This does not Law in time to be one of Frank- kind, it was still possible to agree which had been issued to the press president of the Interfl·aternity Council, mean, Professor Bibber said with a smile, that he furter's \boys Eliot went to Wash- with the correspondent on some- that year. Althoug4 the calling of f tl . ht f f t \t' was not .open to offers in the future. Regarding his ington at first· to work in the De- thing. If nothing else, one could attention to this on the floor of ar!rues in favor o 1e ri!r o ra erm 1es d · \'\\ t h 'd h f It th al fi d t · th t Massa ~ ~ allege retlrcmen , e sa1 e e e rumor was partment of Labor, then to serve as ways n rapp~r m a . - Congres:> failed to kill Dies, it did to establish and keep whatever bases they somewhat unfounded. an assistant solicitor, and finally to chusetts was bavmg a hard wmter. gain considerable publicity and reo- please for admittance of members. With Red hot dope, straight from the man who knows. participate in the writing of the Without reservation Stratton . ognition for Eliot: Mr. Doran's permission, issue will be taken The college elms do not have Dutch Elm disease. social security bill before he re- found himself, along with many in this editorial with his chief reason for A call to T. R. l,\![c!lwaine, assistant comptroller turned to Cambridge in 1987 as a other secretaries, doing consider- cleared up the matter. Mr. Mc!lwaine said the lecturer. It was at this time that able work on Eliot's speeches. supporting the present attitudes of many he made his first attempt to defeat Most of the time this involved the This is the first in a series of .two articles on MJ.•. Stratton. fraternities on race, color and creed. the incumbent that he was to over- collecting and organizing of rna- Pre-judging of races is condoned by so- come in the Congressional races terial, though many times he did ciety, argues ~Ir. Doran, so why should fra- ternities be \singled out for attack for some- thing that is being practiced, consciously or not, by the nation at large?\ Regardless of the fact that fraternities are not lJy any means the only targets of attack for unfair discrimination, there is every reason why they in pal'ticular shoul~ be under careful scrutiny. Educators, poli- ticians and businessmen continually tell col- lege students that they are the leaders of tomorrow. 1\Iany students believe it, and well they might. fot' the world is coming to belong more and more to the educated. It seems reasonallle, therefore, to expect such a potentially influential group as stu- dents to pay more than whispering lip ser- vice to one of the principles of the govern- ment of which they are a part. Mr. Doran writes, \When the nation as a wh0le is ready to give up its biases and pre- judices, it is natural to assume that fratel'- nities will follow the pattern.\ People do not relinquish their beliefs easily, especially their racial and religious prejudices. It is too easy for them to hate the scapegoats of their parents and for them tb teach their children in like manner. The logical principle of judging other human be- ings on theh· individual merits alone must be put in force by examples and by planned efforts. Leaders are required who can teach from experience. Try it, fraternity men. Why wait? George T. Orick The Dollar Triumphs Those of you who will be graduated soon might well be advised to prolong your stay within the ivory wa1ls of Union, lest you be confused by changes in the outside world. Things have been happening to the sacred old traditions of the world. Just this week in downtown Schenectady, as the story goes, one of the larger depart- ment stores quickly forgot whatever sincere interest it might have had in the spirit of Christmas in order to turn a fast buck. Wednesday afternoon the Santa Claus in the basement was surrounded by· kid dies whispering their Christmas lists. Two husky delivery men pushed their way through the crowd of little ones and demanded that Santa stand up. Bewildered, he stood, still holding a little girl to his ear. They whisked his chair away and disappeared. Seems that the dining room group from which the chair· had been borrowed had been sold on another floor. Santa- Claus is so easily undersold these days. , And here are a couple of suggestions: Perhaps Hale House could curry favor among those who stop there for breakfast or for a mid-morning coffee by leaving a bowl Cards to The Concordy Cooke.\ Unclassified The most unpublicized activity on campus this year is the Noon Club. Members meet for 20 minutes four days a week on the stairs in the rear of Memorial Chapel. A sharp rise in mem- bership is antiCipated, if chapel programs grow any duller. * * Professor Coffin's idea of the supreme mixed metaphor, supplied by o~e of his students in a test: Dante stood with one leg in the Middle Ages, while with the other one, he saluted the approaching Rennaisance. * Walter Doran Writes on' Amherst Issue· As president of the Interfra- ternity Council I have been asked to write an article on the fraternity situation at Union in light of the recently well-publicized incident at Amherst involving the pledging of a Negro student by the Amherst chapter of Phi Kappi Psi, a mod- erate sized national fraternity .. At the outset, I wish to state that these are my oWn opinions and should ho be construed as neces- sarily· reflecting those of the 18 fraternities at Union,. which at times hold very diverging opinions. reasons that I don't think Phi Beta 1 Union are fraternity men points tp \Kappa is discriminating against , discrimination. And to a certain me. I realize in both instances degree that is true, but whose fault cited, that membership is only is this? Lay it to the effects of the open to those who meet th.e re- recent war. PreviotJsly, upwards quirements. I uphold the right of of 70 per cent of the student body any group to organize and limit were fraternity men, and nearly its membership in any way it sees everyone who wished to join was fit. given the· opportunity. But ·since Fraternities are composed of the war's ending, the enrollment at human individuals, the same as any Union has almost doubled, without association of members-they are a like inci·ease in the number of the same people that help make up I fraternities. Only one fraternity the country as a whole. When the has been ddded since the war, ana- nation as a whole is ready to give even then thet'e are some who are up its biases and prejudices, it is wondering if we \vill have too many natural to assume that fraternities fraternities when the cut-back to a will follow the pattern. The move- normal enrollment becomea a ment has started, but it will take reality. time to undo the work of centuries. In the meantime, why should one segment of our population be sin- gled out for attack for something that is being practiced, consciously or not, by the nation at large? But is it true that the 50 per cent of the student body who are not fraternity men are discrimi- nated against? In normal times it it quite probable that they would have the opoprtunity to join I!L house if they so desired. But it is a physical impossibility for some of our houses to increase any more than they have during these past two years. .., But because I am not asked to join by one of those fraternities with restrictions as to creed, I do not feel that I am being discrimi- nated against, for much the same Morally, I realize that the prac- tice of discrimination is wrong. We should not pre-.-judge a whole race or nation, but ~;hould look to the iru:Hvic11lal person!llity and charac- ter involved. But as long as our society at large condones it, I would not want to attack the fra- ternities for using it. It is very advantageous to a group of young men who are living together, i:n what is probably., outside of one's family, the most intimate associa- tion existing, and its use tends to deliver a more harmonious experi- ence than could be possible other- wise in present day society. To get back to Union a fra- ternity a Union could pl~dge any- one the members desired to pledae. But if this pledge is made in di- rect contradiction to a law, written ten or implied of their national fra- ternity, they must realize that their action . is affecti~g other chapters of their fraterntty besides their own. Thus they would have to be ?og;tizant of the possible penalty m~teted by other chapters, and abtde by a ruling of their national body. If suspended, such a group coul_d p_resumably form a .Jocal or- gamzatwn, adapt is own rules and 1·egulations, which could \have of these restrictions if that be their pleasure. But it is one thing to say that !J: gorup omit such restrictions; that IS democracy. It is quite a diff.er.ent thing to say that a group om1t them; that is regimentation, At first glance, the fact that oniy · WALTER DORAN, 50 per cent of the student body at President, Interfraternity Council. GUERRA'S PHARMACY WE.KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE Inflation has come to the campus in the form of high wages. Snow shovellers will get $1.50 per hour from Schenectadians this winter for their labor. Just twice as much as lowly wall-washers receive through the student employment office. Fountain Prescriptions Sundries JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS * * Jlj Overheard in Hale House, \It's almost im- possible to get an 'F' in any com•se.\ Brings to mind the remark made by a professor to the student who got .four 'F,' and a 'D.'-\A clear eXample of overemphasis.\ * * * George Souhan, Class of '51, says he entered Memorial Chapel one minute past noon last week and couldn't get an attendance slip. He decided to leave, but was told he could not by one of the slip-pas!;er-outers. \That wouldn't be polite to the speaker.\ 600 Union St. Cor. Barrett St. For HATCHES and JEWELRY ' RepairinfJ and EnCJravin«J Pens and the Finest Gifts Corner Sfah;: and Center Sts. FRIPAY C ., . I :Whal• All l ;Ken center! · Collegt for a ·. United , bal\ sq , week. Wlia rowsk Warre honor. to pla btu. hi becau: ·and .c time Hor toToJ and J .U.P. I Jim lb. baE the ch for th years. receiv' able J the 1 York 'star last was 1: Pen tive c gradu Salle Troy., made footb: ketba year: he en pre-d• to th· Die block defea squa< UniOJ the 1: Footl First Yds. Yds. Total am Avfrr ru~ Aver pa: Tota .ga: Pass Pass % C• Pun1 *AVE Run· Furr Ball Pen: Yds. *]

948 aar l.tton pica;l this him l ar- i, he hear York :tern. ques- ;tH:ng from , was. t and our·!\ that over Dies ngled Cain- came,. 1rbor, thad from would 7 at- JCUS!!.- f pa- Jtter-s, ;ehted ,ePa- round res as : ·sent :rgress .rou:nd a few · they io, the LIFE, ts the l been ~dance . tistics ' press ing of )Or Of it did 1d rec- aries .tton. ue· ·ints tp certain :e fault of the pwards Lt body nearly in was t since nent at 7Vithout 1ber of Lternity ar, ana: rho are omany ck to a nE!'S, a 50 per rho are iscrimi- ;imes it ' woUld join I!L :ut it is r some 1y more •Se past \ te prac- mg.We )le race to tlle charac- as our ; it, I the fra- is very f young ther, ln of one 1 s associa- :ends to experi- e other- r. RAN, Council. FRIDAY. DECEMBER .3,. 1948 Cagers to Face Vermont in:Opener Sat. .: Whalen Wins B~rth On uP Squad . ,Ticket Policy Is ·Stated For Home · Basketball Games DUTCHMAN. CO-CAPTAI~NS Wesleyan Slated For Next Road Encounter Wednesday AU Upstate Ken Whalen, one of the best centers in the history of U~iol;l In view of the fact that the col- College· footb!!-ll, was selected . lege will obtain the Armory for but two of its basketball ga!lleS this . for a first string berth on the season (Feb. 26 Hamilton and United P1•ess All-Upstate foot- March 2 'ft..P.I.), the other 'games , ball squad it was announced this , . will be played in the Alumni Gym- week. .nasium; The latter site seats only . 924 persons, and it WaEI decided Whalen e([ged out Mitch Smia- 'last year to apportion the tickets rowski of St. Bonave:~;iture and •for games at the Gymnasium only. Warren Davis of Colgate for the as follows: · honor. Whalen was also asked 524 for s~udents. 200 for students and their date!!. to play in the Blue-Gray game, 30 for student veterans' wives. btu. had to turn dow11 the offer 70 fOr faculty 1llei'nbers. because he just became a :!!ather 100 ·for the public, and cannot afford to lose the Further qualifications with re- spect to this ticket allocation are as time rrom his stl,ldies. follows.: Honorable mention was given 1. No reservations: will be accept- to Tony Coppola, Pete Ten Eyck, · · ed or tickets sold prior to any of and Al Wade for berths on the ·these games. · 2. Ticket dii;tribution and sale . U.P. eleven. · will begin at 7:00 p.m. on the nig}lt of each gam~;J. Students will enter and obtain their tickets at the en- trance on. the North end of the lower balcony and upon presenta-, ''s .. co.·R.EB_, 0 - .A·_ .RD. · · tion of their student athletic ticket. will be issued their own game · ticket only. It will not be possible by . , for one student to ob!A;Lin tickets. All ·set to lead the way to for an entire group. Captains Bill Grant, left, and Vermont tomorrow night are Co- Jim Pemrick, right, of the 48-49 The Union College hoopsters, who have gone through a rigorous pre-season training, open their '48-'49 basketball season tomorrow against a strong Vermont University ag- gregation at Burlington, and then travel on through New · England to tackle Wesleyan on Wednesday. ' . Soccermen End First Season But • The Spirit Stays By Graham Martin Seven Veterans Back Last year the Garnet topped a potent Vermont five 40-39 in a hard fought nip and tuck battle at home. ·The Catamounts have four veterans .returning from last year's squad, which compiled a record of 14 wins :and 7 losses, while the Dutchmen, who posted a 9-7 count last season have 7 varsity men returning, A The end of a season always calls tentative starting lineup for tomor- for a review of the various. games row, released by Coach Pete Nistad, f . named Co-Captain Jim Petrl.rick ·, and some attempt at a orecast of and Cookie Sherwin in the .forward : the next year's chances. In an re- ports of the Union soccer team, I berths, Ed Henk at center, and have tried to show how it has de- ·Dick Roberts and Dick Speidel in . vel oped and improved. A compari\ ·the guard slots. son between such double fixtures Jim Pemrick was high scorer, as those versus R.P.I. and Cham- Dick Roberts was an offensive plain give perhaps an indication of sparkplug, and Ed Henk was a the change; but to under stand it, valuable reserve on Jast.year's Gar- you would have had to watch the net quintet. Cookie Sherwin turned games, to see the gradual increase· in a stellar performance for the of team play over individual per-· Freshman team after recovering formance; the co-ordination spread from a football injury, and Dick I.!: ===DI.Ck Robe:t•ts__,_,__. 3. Students with their d~tes, stu- Garnet Basketball squad. ·dent veterans and their w1ves, fac- -------------------------~----- from fullbacks to the halfbacks and .Speidel, also a graduate from the finally throughout the whole team; Freshman team, played good steady and all this culminating in the final ball . game of the seas(}n against Cham- Other holdovers from last year plain when the Garnet team played include Co-Captain Bill Grant, who a first half of the best soccer I was ail offensive and defensive have seen in college games this cog for the Dutchmen; towering year. And all this has been 6' 6\ Tim Shea invaluable for his ld . 170 ulty members, and the public will . o Jim Pemrick, 23 year o , · t t N tat t A • t lb. bask etbail co-captail)., has been enter and obtain their tlcke s a ' . a ors ' 0 p. en . gains ' the entrance on the South end of . . . ' . · ·· . the chief scoring threat for. Union the Jower balcony, for the last two 4. Ticket allotments in the vari- · B. kl p I T k t - years. In 19 47 • he ous categories will .. be held until r .. 0. 0 .. ·yn· . : .. 0 y ... an s .ers received h on ° r- · 8:.00 p.m. after which time unissued achieved on only two official one- backboard work; and Dom Petrone hour practices per week and under and John Patton, aggressive re- able mention on tickets wm be pooled and issued· or With ·almost a full complement @•>--------------- an unpaid coach. serves. the upper New sold on a first come first serve of vetet•an·s back from last season, · Many Veterans to Return y k St t all · Dutchmen tomorrow will be two or · a e d · ·'basis, the Union College swimming squad college record holders, Joe Tofel in As for next year it is not easy to , star team, an · 5. Tickets for games played in ·will inaugurate a tough 10 meet the breaststroke and Jim Courter say. There is hope that Franz last season he the Armory W1\11 be available on. e 'schedule tomorrow n1'ght at 8:00 h' h r in the 440 yard freestyle. The other Gelich, our coach, will be working was tg score · week prior to each contest. Faculty P.M. when they step off agai~st Union natators will be: sprinters under a more satisfactory arrange- Perm;i:ck, a na- and student veterans must procure Brooklyn Poly in Foote Memor1al Mike Samal, .John Berbert, Gene ment. If keenness is any criterian, tive of Troy, is a tickets for their wives prior to ar- Pool·. ' graduate of La A Ben~an, and John Isbister; dis- he will have good material to work Salle Institute of · riving at the rmory. Won Last Yeat• tance men Heinz Staedule, Frank with from this year's promising o Last season the mermen swamped w· lk B b J tt B t G k f h t S f th r Troy, where he • B k a er, o arre , ur · rus y, res man earn. ome o e p es- made aU-city in 1-'1 'Veterans . ac . the Brooklynese by a 49-26 score, and Roy Clark; breaststrokers Her- eni varsity team are of course leav- football in '43 and all-city in bas- but the visitors have added ten man Haus and Bob Diamond; back- ing, but with Cy Hopkins, Bob Eng- The basketeers will gain added height with the addition of Bob Faubel 6' 3\ Tom Micarelli 6' 1.\ and John Waldvogel 6' 1\ and added speed and deft ball handling will be present by the addition of Bill Kuznawski and Jim Car- michael. Schedule Tough ketball in '41, '42, '43. After a· two: For D.utchman s·ax new men to· their squad, and will strokers' Frank Rajlort, Dolph !ish, Les Cannez, AI Strunck, and year hitch in the Army Air Corps, be seeking revenge. Schultz,- Dan ~ead, Mort Madison, El\ic Smith there will be little to he entered Union in 1946 taking the T!fi:enty ·four men, including The Garnet netted fout: wins Stan Szabronsky, and Dick Gard- improve i:n the forward and half- pre-dental course. He is married eleven veterans from last year's against five losses last year, and ner; and divers Paul Sharadin, Dick back lines. bon Cramer and George to the former Miss ,Ann Brandt. squad, responded to Coach Art according to Coach Ray Mullane Johnson, Dave Harper, and Bob Witkowski remain as the indom- The courtmen will tackle a tough 17 game schedule with powerhouses like Ar;my, Rochester, and Buffalo added to this year's card. Coach Nistad is not too optimistic about the team~s chances of posting a better than .500 record, as .colleges like W.illiams, Vermont, and Mid- dle and RPI will be greatly aide!1 by material from their strong '47 freshman squads. * \' * Dick Balch, back .field coach and blocking b.ack on the Union '39 un- defeated football team rates the '48 squad over the '39 team. Ed Fitz, Union trainer, rates the '48 line the best he has seen at Union. Football Statistics for Eig~t Games Union Qp.pon. First downs 115 Y ds. ga.(ned rushing 1gs4 Yds. gained passing· . 521 Total Yds. gained ruslhng a.rid passing 240-8 Avera.ge yards :wr game rushing ., 235.5 Avera.ge yards per game passing · 65 Total avera.ge offense per game 301 Passes attempted 1.(}1. Passes completed. 41 % completed (passes 41% Punts 48 • Aver distance of punts 35.1 Runback of punts 540 Fumbles 18 Ball lost on fumbles I) Penalties 24 Yds. lost on penalties 180 · •From line of scrimmage. 54 670 376 Hl46 83.75 47 130.75 H4 34 30o/'o 53 36;7 503 26 15 12 140 SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEAR$ See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4·5676 U4 STATE Near FERRY GOOD FOOD? Try Ebner's Restaurant 149 Barr~tt St. Where Unicm Men Are Always Welcome Lawrence's Initial call for hockey have improved considerably. How- Albright. itable fullbacks, and if the student candidates last Wednesday in the ever the opposing teams. have also There :will be no ·admission fee body finally realizes what an ex- Alumni Gym, and iceless practices. added new talent from strong fresh- fqr the meet tomorrow evening, cel!ent game soccer is and give were initiated in preparation for a man squads, so it is too early to and all students and their dates . their team some of the support it rugged nine match schedule open-· make any predictions for the sea- are invited to come and lend their needs and deserves, a successful ing Jan. 8 against Champlain away. son. support to the team. season is well in the cards. Last season an inexperienced but Expected to set the pace for the Three of the tougher opponents The new captain is Bob Engisch. game group of pucksters ended up The nine .game season schedule on the schedule this year are Ford- Dave Phillips remains in position with a 1-7 record, as hockey was is --as :fbllo\vs: ham, Trinity, .an4 · RPI, all with as a very competent manager. The Dutchmen have been prac- ticing diligently- for several weeli:s on plays centering around a double pivot. They will attempt· to capi- talize on their height and speed and good line of reserves. returned to the Union sports. sched- , t January &c-Champlain. very ·strong squads. ule for the first time since 1942. 15-Cornell. _______ __. _______ :_ ____ _,~-----------;---------------- Coach Lavy:r~ce expects the squad Febr11ary 5-Champlain* to show considerable improvement 9-Cornell. this season, since only one man, 13-Vermont. reserve center Dick Raymond, bas 15-Hamilton• been lost. 19-'Vermont~ ·The eleven veterans returning to 23-Williams. the fold are center and Baptain *Indicates pome games. Rufe Burlingame; wings Joe Behan, Winslow Paige, Francis Meehan, Ollie Perli!oneous, and Stew Miller; goalies Jo.sh Titus and Mort Silverman; defense men Joe Young and Phil Brady; and re- · serve center Don Boink. An out- standing prospect to repo1t ·i!! Roger Turnier, a transfer student · who played varsity hockey while at . Champlain College.· · Dry ice practice sessions and GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY . conditioning drills wm be ~uper- ·patto· n & Hall vised by Coach Lawrence Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays in the X;.BAY FrrriNG handball room of the gym untn- it UIJ STATE ST.--Binoe 11!911 is possible to freeze the rink and..·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ don skates. ~ II LANGE & RAPP I. Pht;~rmacy . I PRESCRIPTIONS ·l - \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOlT TERRACE and . STATE STREET HOFFMAN SKATE LAND e $KATE .EVERY EVENING Salti. & Sun. Afternoon· 2--5· l\ .M. • SKATE l>ANOJNG CLASS Mtm, & Wed. 6:1&-:7:45 1\. M,. FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS For the Finest IN MEN'S CLOTHING CHAS. HOLTZMAN &SON mi9 STATl!l S'l'REET ·\ Our new Educatl'onal Travel Ser\ll~ NOW READY TO SERVE YOU Established espe;:ially to advise and assist the student travele1· ••. this new division is now ready to help you plan vacation travel •.• organize your :foreign study program ..• handle all arrangements for groups or indi- viduals. American Express buys steamshil&, ·air, rail tickets .•. makes hotel reservations , •• arranges sightseeing and other details. 158 offices and bureaus in 26 countries to serve you. • • • PLANNING STUDY .ABROAD? Wrife American Express Company, Educational Travel Division, 65 Broadway, New York 6, N, Y. for 32-page booklet describing opporltini- ties for study and details of educational· facilities in all foreign countries, When you fravef ••• always protect your funds with American Express Travelers Cheques AMERICAN EXPRESS· Travel Service Head. Qfflce ••• 65 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y. J 1 i >,

i I 4 FRIDAY, 'DECEMBER 3. T948 ,. Basketball Heads Intramural Card; Chi Psi Victors Sunday Speii.ker Psi Upsilon Anniversal'Y Amherst DI.spute For the Record Douglas Steere, professor of On November 20, Psi Upsilon fra- . · . . . phllosopy at Haverford Colle_ge, . ternity observed the 115th anniver- (Continued from Page 1) Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Murphy· will be the guest preacher atUmon sary of its founding here at Union comp)u'ison in considering the of- .of Dutchmen's Village have an· College Sunday, December 5th, at 11:00 o~cloclt, and will speak at the Union servic!l t-o be sponsored by th~ college and the Schenectady County Council of Churches at 7:30 Sunday evening. Twenty-nine teams inaugurated the intramural basketball program last week as the first twelve games were played. Contests are being conducted within the three leagues that have been formed. Winners in National League en- counters were: Delta Phi, the Sner- zigs, Alpha Delta Phi, and Chi Psi. The American League games were bagged by the Ramblers, Theta Delta Chi, Delta Upsilon, and Phi Delta Theta. In the United League, Phi Gamma. Delta, Kappa Nu, Psi Upsilon, and Sigma Phi were the victors. College. The occasion was key- faring of a pledge, nounced the arrival of their third noted by the dedication of a plaque Only White 1\lembers child. Their first \daughter in honor of members of the chap· Three fraternitie:;;,. Delta Chi, Phi weighed in at 10 pounds, 2 ounces ter who gave their lives in World Delta Theta, and Phi Gamma Delta Wednesday at 3 a.m • .AlLthree off· War II. . are permitted by their charters to springs have arrived since Mur- ' Nine chapters were represented pledge orily \white members of the · phy's return to thp campus. at the unveling of the plaque, given Caucasian race,\ according to either Instructor and Mrs, John P. by the Theta chapter of Psi Up- members or officers- of the houses., Lewis have announced the arrival silon. Stuart Beyer!, house pres!-, The next fraternity questioned of Betsy Lewis on Novembel• 19 at dent, delivered an introductory ad- was Kappa Nu. According to Mer- 7 pounds, 3 ounces. Mrs. Lewis dress. Thomas M. Hopkins read ton Sarnoff, house p~esident, the said, \She Ioo'lts just like her verse, followed by a short address KN charter restricts membership father.\ by Chaplain C. Victor Brown. to men of hebrew parentage. At Kenneth J. Whalen and wife, In the evening an informal ban- present, he went on, there is a Elizabeth, were greeted with a quet was given for the 110 alumni contested movement within the future football player's wife on and active members of the fratern- various chapters to remove this re- Nov e·m be r 23. Jean Frances ity present. strictive clause. There are hopes, weighed 6 pounds, 13 ounces. ---o he continued, that the removal of FRATERNI'l'Y PROGRESS TABLE this restriction will become a fact Nine g-ames are scheduled for • this week, intramural director Art (Continued from Pagel) within the next few years. Name of F·ratet·nity Delta Phi o/o of % of The la::;t fraternity whose restric- Members Quota tiolis were considered was Beta Eta Subserlbed Upsilon, a local formed last ye·ai\. Photographers UJhose pictures Lawrence announced. Chi Psi Swim Champs Lawrence also revealed that Chi Psi was victorious in the swimming meet held November 16-17. The winners scored 13 points while Sigma Chi tallied 11, Psi Upsilon 10, Delta Phi 9, Delta Upsilon and Phi Gamma Delta 8, Phi Delta Theta 3, ::;_nd Kappa Sigma and Alpha Delta Phi 1. Chi Psi, who finished fourth last year, Is leading in the total intra- mural points thus far with 225. Phi Gamma Delta, winners last year, are second with 189.42. Following the leaders are Sigma Chi with 178.265, Psi Upsilon with 173.650, and Delta Phi with 169.035. Campus Chest To wind up the activities of the Campus Chest Drive, Do n a 1 d Treanor and Ralph Reed, commit- tee members, have asked that all outstanding pledges be completed before the Christmas vacation. Money may be turned in at the Student Activities office at any time. Phi Delta Theta Sigma Phi Phi Uamma Delta Theta Delta Chi Alpha Delta Phi Kappa Sigma Phi Sigma Kappa Delta Upsilon Kappa Alpha Beta Theta Pi Chi Psi Phi Upsilon Sigma Chi Phi Sigma Delta Delta Chi Kappa Nu Beta Eta Cpsilon 90.0 74.68 100.0 62.62 It proclaimed in its constitution 1 bb:~ E~:~~ that it would not restrict member- 61.1 55.0(} ship because of race( creed, or 87.8 47.22 ·color. 60.0 45.62 In summation, the same preju- ol.S 42 · 14 dices against race and colors are 61.9 41.11 42.3 40.11 found among Union's fraternities 42.2 34.64 that are found in clubs and or- 40.4 2 1,5 1 ganizations the length ad breadth 19.5 17.24 17.2 14.60 of the coutry. 62.2 13.73 No Returns to Date No Rei:1%Pns to Date No Returns to Date Dogs in Siberia are the fastest in the world because the trees are so far apart. Cleaners and Dyers BaU's Shoe A Sweetheart Pin is a Treasured Xmas Gift. Inc:. Bebunaers 633 State St. 204 Union St. :be!ig!}t your Best Girl with a beautiful crested gift or· minia- ture Sweetheart Pin. CARL SORENSEN PHONE 6-3456 30 Murray Ave., Waterford, N.Y. Telephone Waterfo1·d 644 Call Ball and Ball Will Call L. G. Balfour Co. · We expected this ••• Y OUR TELEPHONE must take hard knocks as they come-and go on working. are in this isme are RoBERT ,SCHWARTZ, and ROBERT HEINE- MANN. A new address- The same service-- reliable and competent Call 3a6700 • Union Cleaners Prompt Delivery Service FERRO'S RESTAURANT For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN Good Food & Bevetages PHONE 6-95'54 William H. Plath 60'1 Union Street AUTO 1115 BARRETT STR~ET GAZETTE. Printers ~ ........ SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY STREET .t II CHESTERFIE~D is the cigareHe I smoke in my new picture, SERVJ.CE AN INNOCENT AFFAIR. I always enioy their MILDER, BETTER TASTE ••• It's M.Y cigarette. 14 {ltd /H::.JN~ AN INNOCENT AFFAIR A UNITED ARTISTS RELEASE To make sure it can, we test samples of each day's pro- duction and put telephones through the equivalent of years of service in a few hours or days. For example: we drop handsets into their cradles 22,000 times-equal to 4 years' normal use. And not just once, but from 16 difterent posi- tions, we drop sample telephones from desk-top height onto a hardwood surface. We even check their feet to be certain they won't scratch your table. nAodhu ~ABC GIRl T --· ;f Syracuse University says- Here at Western Electric, we've been making Bell tele- phones since 1882. But telephones themselves are only about 6% of the equipment used in your service, The other 94% includes wire, cable, switchboards, trucks, poles, tools, office equipment. With the exception of buildings, we make or supply almost everything Bell telephone people use-and test it with utmost care. Guarding the quality of things used in your B~ll tele- phone service is one way that Western Electric helps to make it the world's best. Wtsf'ern Electric A UNIT OF THE BELL @SYSTEM SINCE 1882 '' J smoke Chesterfields because they '~e MILDER and better every way. They re tops with my college friends.\ J Vol. 76, Lt G·r B! w banks' wood's Wedne five a~ showir Milforj -·---·-. Ho By The Kappa nounce' to the Profe chapteJ Kappa Stern, A. We~ will be A. T. Sigma Robert Kenne· Mitche Freder Stern SiU The can s· studei: Dr. G depar1 speak! the G leg-e J wash New Inti four 1 now plan first · since ner v Unior Sco.tJ1 In eign res en Finla Thijii manr . Df F DE in t the for The well Han nom Phi frat, men Fr R vari dorJ lege hliv cen out par cen ma' sale F. dot its tha vit be tot tiv '52 an ho a \I bii hi. in fo

f948 - lak at lnSOred tectady at 7:30 - th :e - - I· , .. trttsts .. Founded «t Union College in 1877 Vol. 76; No. 12 $CHENECTADY, N; Y., FRIDAY', DECEMBER 10, 1948 PRICE 1'0 CENTS Large Audien~e · EroshEvents Council Kills Dance· G·ree_ t_s Pro_· ~d·'UCtzon_ ·. :~!::;~~!.o:r!~'!'\~~sh Weekend··o·k • ' ' ' ' ' . '. ' ·. ',. ' .· . . 3-6 :i?.M:-Re?iste.r, Silliman H::ll.. ' ': : a· y· ·s c·. ' h·a·p·_ e·· ·1~ P. I• a· 'n M · 6:00 P.M.-Dmner at Fratermty · · · . . . . . . By -- o· U· n.. te J...an··ks· ~~~~~or othe~. designated_. . . . . . · · · · · ' · f.J · . . . .: . 8:.00 P.M.-Play 0 in Hanna Hall, . . ' . \The Petrified Forest.\ Despite the more than two~~~~--~---~--~~-4> A plan designed to speed Wednesday night th.e curtain opened on the Mounte-. Saturday, December 11: to one vote in favor of a mid- ·Rj. th. · k. l[ . up and improve chapel pro- banks' firs·t full~scale production of the yea· r· -Robert .. Sh·er-. 8 - 12 A.M.~Sub•Frosh may audit . d . 1 h :1 a ·s ·e .; a r ' classes. wmter l}nce m the po l e d ·. · · · · ~Tams wa:s announced 'today wood's \The Petrified Forest.\ Performances were held·. 1-4 P.M.-An buildings open fov November 22 the student · by the student council. The Wednes<;iaY and Thm·sda,y e.veni:n:gs before large_and apprecia- inspection. - 1 : 1 t d f'tonst·ructz•o'\ five aadiences, and it is· expected that the remaining three lnterview at ·smiman Hail. councl unammous Y V;O e \..1~ , · . · · · . Ill plan takes effect Monday. showings will b 'u t a f l . d.. t J h H. . 6:00 P.)IZL-Di;nn'er at Ha;le House, down the icie?- in a meeting h~ld The resolution adopted is: . . . · . e J S s. SUCCeSS U, aCCOP 1ng 0 0 · n , . address i:ly President David- last Tuesday. The poll, covermg o~·z·s·cuss.ed Milford, president -of the ;Mountebanks. son. more than eight hundred students, 1a, Some system of a dock or a - . • <® Martin stars _ 8:00 P.M . .-\Basketball game with showed that 570, more than .siXty bell should be arranged so that the Honors Won By Students S . · · · f . Bl'ookly:i:t, in gymnasium. percent, were in favor of a mid- Th proctors will stop, giving out at- tarrmg in this· di ficult .play IS, ... •- d Of th' b 1 e proposal of the construction· tendence s1 1 ·p· s·, and w· I'll n'ose the Sunday, December 12: wm ... r ~nee. IS num er, a- . ~,. Graham :Martin,, St. Andrl!ws ex•, t t th' d. t d · of a rathskeller on the campus at entrance door·s ~~ .th. at no ·one wi'l·l 11:00 ,A.M.-Chapel serviCe in mos wo- Ir s wan e an m- ~u . ·. chang~ student from ;Ki~macoim, f 1 d Union College was one of the topics be adtnitted to the chapel after Memorial Chapel. . . orma ance. Scotland. He plays the part of Alan . · on the agenda at-..the Tippecanoe 12:00 noon. Squif}r, a tired intellectual of the 1:00 ~.M.-Dinner at fraternity · For Information Only conferel).Ce held Sunday. The gen- lb. The slips for the balcony \lost generation.'' In the :feminine. ouses or other designa;ted · I th t' 1 t T d eral tone of the discussion was en- · · places. n e rnee 1pg a:;; ues ay ,.... should be given out at the upstairs lead, Gabl:Jy, is Elaine Wailace of-· · · ht 't · t d t th t th thus1asm, but .Problems were raised The Union chapter• of Phi Beta· Schenectady. mg , I was pom e ou · a e which will have to. be solved before doors to prevent anyone from re\ Kappa a:nd Sigma Xi yesterday an\ Supporting these characters\' a:re poll was· for purposes of inforrna- definite plans can !)e formulated. ceiving attendance credit for sit- nounced the Undergraduat ~s elected H' F 1· ~· tj,on only, and did not dictate any 't!ng on the balcony stairs. to the honor societies. · · . . course of action to the student College Contributes 2. Exactly at noon, and· after the · ·~ William Van Ost, as Gramps, and .. · ·. o·p. . p· .· er a' . William Herrman, as Duke Mantee, '1 Aft h t d' · P . f · F· d · k L B counm · er a s or Jscusswn on doors have been close· d, the master ro essot: re . eno . ronnev, the gangster. Hugh s. w 1 ·soff, as One of these problem ·s th t • f K •ll w k the matter, the council unanimous• s 1 · a o chapter secretary, oj Phi . Beta Boze Hertzlinger, ·ex\Zfo.otball play- .· ~- .s· . or. . . -er· , ly voted down }llanning a mid- the location of such a project. The of ceremonies will enter and the Kappa ·named Jack C. Myle:;, Frank er and· lover per excelll!:nce, points . . . Win.ter dance on the ground:;; of p~obablll locati()n of the rathskeller audien{)e. will rise to sing one of Stern, WH!iam S. Warner, and Roy out the frustration of mactivity. · i will be the basement of Old Cha el the college songs. A W tl d J II • Th · · Robert Mcintyre, aged 68, died Insufficient time to plan a sat s- . . P . • · ... . ·es un , r., a semors. ey Included in the cast, also, are factory dance, and that the only ~esident Davidson stated that If · 3. The person conducting the will be initiated in January. Art Kean, as Jason Maple.; Al late Moncray afternoon artr:r a fall date available was too close to the .this met student approval, the col- progmm will cro·ss the 'bhancel and. T G S in .the coal hopper above the' heat- t h d' A. . oble, secretary of Union's iesel, as Jackie; Miss· Jacliie junior' prom. It wa:o. mentioned that lege would build a sec?nd entrance announce o t e au 1ence which Sigma Xi, listed Demonic Cusano, Cadan, as· Mrs. Chisholm; Jack ing plant. According to-·coilege ofJ sufficient interest to make the to the basement. 'I'h1s would be one of the college songs will be b C I ficials, Mcintyre appar~ntly entered · d I' d th · · Ro ert . Davis, Harol'd F. Larkin, mrie, as Mr. Chisholm; JaQk dance a financial success would be necessary because fire .laW'l require sung, an ea e smgmg. Kenneth J. Male, Timothy v.· Arkley, as Ruby·, RJ'char·d GI'll's, 1 as the coal hopper to adjust the coal that any room which ight cont in 4 Aft th th d' feed to the furnaces, and rell about difficult to arouse. · m a . er e song e au Ience Mitchell, Gordon H. Osterheld, First Linesman; Mort ·Silverman, over fifty persons be provided with will ·be seated and the person con- Fredel'ick E. ·steigert, and Frank' as second linesman; Ben Ross, as eight feet Into coal in the hopper. Formal in MfY two doors. The president also ducting the program will wait until Pyl Mcintyre was first missed about Stern for associate :memberships. es; Rai Kunkelinan, as Paula; 3 : 30 p.m., when his son returned In regard to using Arthur Agnello stated that the college would also no persons are left standing in the ___ 0 ,___ .._ Eugene Underwood, as the Legion and his orchestra, some members take the responsibility for the con- rear of the chapel or the aisles be- Commander; Richard Bode, as an- ~:te~ara ~~~~e~nq~~~~~h,ab~utst~:~ felt that the u::;e of Agnello would struction of the necessnry lava- fore he reads th'e announcements. othe!' legionnaire;· Paul Madison, J'eopardfze the possibility of gettin·g· · tories. The announcements should be re- found a 15-foot ash bar in the coal as Joseph_; John Sigsby, as. the feed pipe . .After looking in the coal an orchestra for the junior prom A second problem, that of the striated to those· submitted to the Sheriff; Joseph Vinck, a'S Herb; hopper, William Mathias, superin- in May, in light of the clash with initial financing of the project; president's office, and should be as The lack of exchange of. Ameri- 'and Hugh Montgomery, as a ten. dent of bui'lds and grounds, Local 85 of the American Federa- which in.::Iudes the building and few ~~ as short as possible. 'lfle can students in the international deputy Th · \d t 1 d\ · · t' f M · · · to k' b d · · e mc1 en a ra 10 voice calle· d the fire department and an Ion o usicians during the period s c mg of the ar, the purchase 5. At the close of the program Silber Speaks stu ent exchange war:; stressed bv was d n by R b t R · f D b F b f f · d d G < 0 e o er eisner. ambulance. The body was ,f.ound at ~·om ecem er to e rliary a year o urmture, an · the remo . eling the l!IJeaker will leave the chancel. Dr. ordon R.~snber, head of the F 8 d · t' f th b or 'Qb Frosh 6:30 p.m. by members of the ~scu· e ago. an pam mg o · e · asement The audience wiJI remain seated department of modern languages, · ·~ ld h t b t d t h speaking at the annual dinner of Tonight's performance has been squad digging in the coal. Me- As an alter~tive to the mid- wou . ave. o e presen e o t e until the speaker has left the chan- the Greater New York Union Col• given over to the sub-freshmen Intyre was pronounced dead by winter dance, it was suggested that 'students. An estimate by James eel. lege Alumi Association. The dinner who will be the guests o.f the Coroner Emil J. Simn, who later dances be held after the home Hogeboom, chairman of the stu- 6. Most of the above arrange- was held at the University Club- in Mountebanks. On Saturqay there stated that Mcintyre had died of .basketball games, using Agnello dent tax committee, puts the: total ments should be handled 'by the will be two performance: at 2:30 sulfocatio.n. and his orchestra. oost to the students in excess of students themselves. However, the New York on Wednesday evening. _ .. $10000 Introduced by Dr. Silber were p.m and' at 8:30 p.m. • · cooperation of the president would Tickets are on sale at the box Other Problems Considered be needed in the matter of prevent- four represel!tative foreign studnts .office each evening and from 12:45 Stud· ·en' ts, F· ·a-cuity AI·r. v· 'I·ews ing card games on the ba:Icony now at Union under the HELP. to 1 :ao p.m. dlfring -the day. Stu- . . . . . In addition to these, several stairs and not beginning the pro- p lan as well as Herma· n N1'cke·1, d other problem were ra1'sed 1'n a . ents 1'I!USt present their student s gram until -all persons are seated. first · German exchange student \' ·t· · discussion of the rathskeller in the . . acLIVI 1es card in order to obtain At ·T• c f 7. Since· the students requested ~~e~c~~; ~:: ~c~n~~li:~u~~e':a:~ a titcket. AU ather tickets, for . . lppecanoe · on• erence ~!~~:~;e~o~ciihe J~:=c~o~~!~ 0 ft that the two points credit be dis- u . f · · g¥-es s, are $1.20, tax included. conti'nued for Sunday· chapel, it is mon rom St. Andrews University, F 1 t had to consider whether student Sco ·tland. . acu ty and heir families, as well Th d t ·d t f lt f h ld 1 t S · increas1'ngly 'diffi'cult to. obtain the . t d t e secon s u en - acu y con erence was e · . as un- interest in the project would last In addition to Nickel, the for- eign students at Union were rep- resented , by Aarne A. Ahokas of Fip.land, Joseph J.· Alberdinglt- Thijm of the Ijl'etherlands, and Her- mann A. Hal,IS· of .j\ustria. as s u en wives will be admitted d . ' . · required number of chapel points. for 20 cents. ay at Tippecanoe Wlth thirty-seven members of the student long enough to pay for tl!e upkeep It is suggested that the student Th-e direction of ·\The Petrified body and faculty attending, The conference WaS held for the of the cl~b, and whether a possible coundl request the administration ;Forest\ was by Jackson Davis. ·The pu-rpose of airing· thou.ghts and crystallizing opinion Oll ma]' or decrease in registration might de- to give credit for an assembly pro- t d · d b A h K · . crease the !!lecessity for it. He also Sf! was. es1gne y rt ur ean, · sues C · f • t'n th t d t d th d · • t · t' - g· ram on Wed· nesday for the sole d 1' ht' ·t lS on ton 1 g e S U en S an e a ffillllS ra lOll. suggested that the construction of an 1g mg WI h arranged by Ro- -o b H 11 . d · purpose of group. singing· of songs I d B ld . q, ~.o ert artwe , actmg as mo -IS> the rathskeller on campus might. an a wm. . 1 of thi's and other colleges. era~tor and master of ceremonies, · incite opposition from the local · plann:d ~nd carried thr~ugh ~he Group tO Instal} cha:nlber of commerce, because of A provision instructing proctors orgamzabon of the meetmg With .· • the fact that it would be competing to repo·rt to the discipline corr.mit- the ~ponsorship of the student Jn Formal RtteS with local taverns, which derives a tee any person not showing proper counml. Althougl:r the conference . substantial part of U1eir income decorum during chapel such as · was ham-strung by lack of author- -The formal initiation and instal- from college students. ..standing up, holding a \CG-nversa- ity to tak~ positive action ori any lation ceremonies for the 31 charter Another probl'em suggested was tion, or getting up and moving to- of the eight questions dis{)ussed, it members of the Union College £hat it. might be difficult to get a ward the exit before the spea.ker Delti Phi is still out in front ~ - did pring to light and focus atten- chaptev of Alpha Phi 01llega w.m permit to sell beer at the rath- • h_as left _the chll.ncel was rejected. in the fraternity competition in tion on such topics as the rath- be held in H!!-1~ }3:ouse Sunday skeller. o Delta Phi Still Leads· As Field House Funds Rise the Union College Call'pUS drive report in last week is in 11th place. skiller, chapel programs, the policy afternoon. Formal p!e<;lging cere\ The discussion in the student for Memorial Field House funds. with 36 per cent o.f its quota of the college concerning draft de- monies for 15 pledges will also be council did not result in ·a definite .G-E Wotker SpeakS' The total amount pledged is now pledged, while Sigma Chi has risen .ferments, and improvement of held. stand or recommendations because LemUel Boulware, an e:qrploye of well over the $8,000 mark, John to the 1 3th place with 24.7 per cent campus communication methods•. An eight-man installing team of. the late hour at which it was the General Electric Co., Schenec- Han!la drive chairma~ has an• of its quota pledged. Discuss Reserve Unit from the RPI ch!l,pter will be in. taken up ..... However, the matter has tady, spoke in chapel Tuesday nounced. Phil Gamma Deita and The inter fraternitY council in its The principal question under dis- charge of the forinl3.1 cerei:p.ony. Dr. been tabled and will be discussed noon. Boulware is reported to be a Phi Delta Theta are still the only recent meeting promised to aiq the cussion concerned the position of Carter Davidson will present the in more detail at a latter date. , vice president of that firm. fraternities that have 100 per cent cal!lpus drive as much as possible. the college in light of the new charter. Al~o expected tdl be pre- . -------~-----------------------.--- men;bership participation. PlaqueS to be Awarded draft law and the possibility of a sent are Mr. Robert Cacne1:, local Fratei'nities .Lead llidewendents As incentives toward better re... reserve Unit at Union College .• scout exec~tiv,e faculty Dr. c. D. Lndepen·den· 't' sponse in the campus campaigh to Presidei1t Davidson outlined de-· Hocker, Wtlfred H. _Ketz, Harold · . . . . . Reports are coml.ng in fro:tn the help in the erection of the Mem~ vel'opments to date in Washington C. O'Neill, Dr: C. Victor Brown, variops independent groups and orial Field House four plaques will and told of a recent recommenda- .. and Robert R. Callander, and a su· bsc r· ,·be l~n dormitories on campus. North Co-l- be awarded and placed in the tion to• General Hershey, head of. representative of the national ex- Veterans HELP Plan lege_ and Senec:~. lodge chairtren entranceway of the field . house. s'ele0tive s~rvice made by a com- eGutive board. • have announced that over 29 per: These plaques which will be per- mittee coinpos.ed' of prominent men f The frate~nity is holding a party • Subscriptions to the independent o$.~. --~----------­ cent of those contacted have filled malient features of the field house irt the .fields of science medicine or some 0 Schenectady under- HELP drive have been coming in assembly program to advertise cer- out pledges. Figures for fraternity are to be given to the clas~ which, and humanities. Accordi::rg to their pri:vileged children on campus Sat- . slowly according to Sam Newcomer tain phases ·of the HELP prograni. participation show' that 54.9 per has the highest percentage of par- recommendation seniors in high ur,day afternoon, .December 11. In- anc:YWilliam Reed·er, heads of the Also participating in the program cent or'' the fraternity men have ticipatlon, to the stuqent activity school would be given the army eluded ~>n t~e program 3;re sports drive. So far 36 veteran indepen- were three members of the Union made out pledges to date Hanna which also has the highest· per- general classificatton test or its and swtmn;mg, lq,nch,_ g1fts from dents- have.shown ali in~erest. College HELP Committee: Karl sai<;I. centage of participation, as well as equivalent to determine their fit- the f_ratern,Ity, .a chemistry demon• The independent veterans intend Koch, . who described the back\ He also noted that the freshman to the dormitory which reaches the ness for further education and con- stratton by Dr. Egbert Bacon, to invite a veteran f.rom an ex- ~round and future development of dormitory in South College, through same goal. The plaque awarded· to sequent deferment. These men en- . moxies donated by George's Film ·enemy country to study at Union; the HELP Plan: William Reeder, its drive chairman, has indicated the fraternity system will give tl:le terirtg oa'n il}stitution of .. higher Service, the swimming meet, and the non-veterans in this category who presented a version of the plan that results of the freshman acti- name of the fraternity which learning· would have 'their defer- a tour of the campus. have made no definite plans yet, for non-fraternity veterans at vities towards the field house will re!Lches. the highest llercentage of ment e'ii:tended providing they were ' but it has been sl!ggested that they Union; and Sam Newcomer, who be announced next week. These its quota in the place of holioi:. in the upper half of their fresh- Ftdbrigh,t to Speak try to secure a student either from spokf' concerning participation in totals, Hanna said, wiil be indica- This plaque will also list all those man class. Further deferment Senator James W. , FUlbright, Soviet Russia <>r a Russian-domin- the plan by non-veteran independ- tive o-f the s!1irit of the class of fraternities which reach 100 per would ,depend on their standing in Arkans·as, will speak in Mep10rial ated country. ents. '52, because there also is a race cent participation on the part of . succeeding years. Chapel Thuvsday, December 16 at Speaking in Memorial Chap.el on Reeder hopes to have at least 75 among classee for the place of their membership. . · Air Force Possibllity 8 p.m. His topic will be \United Monday, December 6, Herro_ann veterans give nine dollars to pay honor on a piaque which will be. The g'o·al towards which the fra- The ensuing debate considered States World Leadership.'' Two Haus of Gra.z, Austria, guest of Phi for the board of an ex-enemy vet- awarded .to the class wpjch ha:;; tb.e: ternities at 'Union ate wo-rking is the worth of Vf!.rious re:;;erve train- points credit will be given to stu- Delta Theta under the HELP Plan, eran student. If :more veterans sub- highest percentage of participation $22.015. This goal is the total ing programs. And in view' .of the dents for attending. expressed his gratitude to Union scribe the amount wi!l be less per in the dJ.!ive. - amount .gf all the quotas set wb.ich I info. rmation .. brought to light it is ·R ... nator Fulbright, one of the College for permitting him to study • donor. This would give the foreig!l Changes in the fraternity stand- are determined by adding $50 for tmlikely that any organization leading authoriti<'s of American he>re and hiovadmiration for AmHi· ~tud~nt the same sum of money ings· in the drive this week are as each senior with $25 for each 'un- other than: the Ail' Force would-; foreign policy, was elected to the I can institutions of higher educa-~· ·each _month as that recL•ived by follows-;. :Qelta Chi which had no . derclassmeli. . consider a college the size of Union. sena;te in 1944. tion. Haus's t11lk was part of an· veterans. ' --~ I

2 arnurnr It Is Rumored By R. .A, NAVIAS Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Nd- tiot\al Adverti•ing Servi<'<', Inc., College l'uuli•hets Hepresentative, 420 l\laoli- sot\ Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College, Pub- liPation Office, The Ga- zette l'r•\s 334 State St. Entered In the Srtlenet·- ta<iv l'o .. t Office us s~c­ ollti Cl..t>;s .:.!ail 1\latter,. <Ub·Cl'iptinn .fOe a COP>', $3 year; delivered any- where in the United States. There has been much grumbling and. many bitter words this past week over the alleged ir:justice · of hour exams' scheduled during the noon hOUJ,'. Cries of \Hew are we going to get chapel points?\ and \When du we eat?\ have been heard from acll quar- ters. These are the Cisadvantages as seen to date. Now the rest of the story. Geor~:e T, Orlclt Editor James Murrny Herbert Saxe A~tlng lUanaging Editor Aetlng News I~dltor Alb<•rt ('orbo and James llan.r A !-.Mwiutp Editors Jnllws .Ettinger Ito!Jerl Helnent>lllll Aetill'g Spor.ts Editor Pl<·tnre Editor William .ll.<•l;urry uud ~umuel UuM•oe Al'llng· l•'t•ulun• Editors In interview with Dean C. William Huntley, he stated that several departments have a real prob- lem in ·how to give equal ·hour tests to a large num- ber of secthms. The departments have found through experience, that equal tests car not be given to the various sections at different times. Some secticn is always at a disadvantafe, some sections always has the advantage of knowing what was or. the ether· t<'st. In order to rectify t.his situation, th<:' l,ambl'rt Ginsberg Business :uanagor t'rml<'h .IIPPIInn ('ir~ulutlou 3Ianager , depa1 tments have tried to schedule ex,ams for all sections at the same time. But due to the lnge en\ rollment and the irregular schedules of a large num\ ber of students, it is impossible to .give thetie test~ during regular hours. Sedative No Cure In establishing a ritual to be followed in week-day chapel programs, the student council has shown little consideration of the core of the chapel problem. Like the person who is content to take aspirin for a head- ache, the council has concentrated on symp- tom rather than disease. ThP problem of equal departmental tests exists in two advanced physics courses, s~ic Dean Huntley. in some of the elementary foreign language courses, in freshman history, two biology courses, and in economics 11, 37, 38 and 43. But the whole blame does not by any means rest with the council. The board of managers has shown an equal lack of under- · standing in recommending a system of grammar school or military ritual to force attentiveness to chapel programs. ThP all!:rnatives to having tests d·uring noon hour are to hold ·the tests at seven o'clock in the morning, at four thirty in the afternoor., or at seven or eight at nir.ht. All of the alternatives are more objectionable than the time currently scheduled. Dean Huntley went on to say that the system is only tentative, and will be discussed at the next faculty council meeting. At the outset, the system will be used fot only three, or four terms, or as long as the need exists. ----01---~ Unclassified Both groups have refused to face the fact that the students here do not seem to like to attend chapel und~ a point quota. And neither group has made a move toward im- proving the .quality of chapel programs. For the benefit of mystified students: However, it is probably best to withhold further lengtby discussion of the matter in the hope that the students will make known their resentment against the application of more rules to the Union plan for enforced culture in such certain terms that abolition of the point system may be achieved. The strange sounds emanating from the language building at certain times originate in Professor John Iwanik's Russian class. His students gather about a saxaphone, toodled by one of the class, and give out with garbled versions of Russian folksongs, * The squirrels that bol.lnd o'er Union's grounds do so at great peril the1;1e days, Brian J. Abdella, Class of 1950, observed one of the campus dogs this past week with four of the rodents in his clutch-chewing them rigorously. What will happen to the pastoral atmosphere, of Union's campus if such .atrocities continue? And what will happen to the squirrel population? Letters to the Editor .. Dear Orick, n;an who watches and does nothing 1 upon the excellent and very neces- but disapproves . . . · s,ary editorial \Why Wait\ in last As one who has followed the re- cent controversy over discrimina- tion by fraternities with some in- terest may I congratulate you on the ~cellence of your recent edi- torial, \Why Wait?'' Your truly week's Concordiensls. In any edu- MARTIN J.· BLICKSTEIN cational institu~ion the student LEO G M PHERSON ' should, at least m theory, he edu- . c ·· cated in more than the usual for- It seems to me that you went directly and effectively to the main point of the debate. namely that college organizations, being given privileges by society, ought not to be followers but leaders in the long trek toward a more humane world. Yours sincerely, HAROLD A. LARRABEE. Dear Mr. Orick, .. ·. We would like to take issue with Walter Doran concerning his recent article in The Concordiensis explaining his point of view. Mr. Doran makes the statement that the fraternities are \an inte- gral part of the educational system at Union\ and as such cannot \be considered above and beyond the rules and regulations of the school.\ The inference is that the school practices a system of racial and religious quotas. Even if this were true, it would be no justifica- tion for a continuation of a policy among the fraternities, which the leaders, .by and large, verbally, at least, condemn. Dear Editor: Recently the various departments of the college have adopted a policy of standardizing hour exams by conducting departmental exams from 12 noon until 1 p.m. This policy is advantageous, in that, it tends to introduce a more unifo-rm method of grading, while at the san:e time, eliminate work for the faculty ·by reducing the number of hour exams each professor must concoct, since under the old· system a different exam was necessary for each section. These two points ap- pear to be the only facfors in sup- port of this plan. On the other hand, the incon- venience and expense to the stu- dent should be considered. For students with afternoon classes, there is only a short interval of 30 minutes for them to hurry from the site of the exam to their place of eating, eat their lunch, and the11 rush off to their afternoon class, suffering from indigestion. Other students, who have affili- ations with intra-mural teams, will be deprived of this privilege for at least that day, if their team is scheduled because the games usual- ly start at 12:55 and they will just be putting the finishing touches on their exams when the games begin. The implication goes even fur- ther, for if the practice of segrega- tion is part of the \educational system'' at Union, then Union Col- lege is teaching a course in bigo- try. If the fraternities are not above the rules and regulations of Fraternity members will bear a the college, then it would seem that financial loss in addition to the the college should come out with a other inconveniences, since prac- statement of administration policy tically a]] the houses require a concerning this matter. It should straight board bill regardless of be stated at this point that Pres!- whether the meals a.re eaten. The dent Davidson stated emphatically meals are served at 12:30 and any- last year that the college had no one who is unfortunate enoQugh to such practice. miss them, regardl_ess of the cause, Mr. Doran says he upholds \the· does not eat. The purchase of right of any group to organize and lunch outside of the house. means limit its membership in any way that the meal was paid for twice. It sees fit. We take it that this is It appears to us that the disad- to be considered a privilege of a vantages of this plan outweigh the democracy. Perhaps then we have the advantages heavily, and that been wrong in maintaining that it a more feasible system should be was not Hitler's or anyone else's adopted, such as 4:30 exams, or we right to limit membership and par- should !'evert back to the previous tieipaUon in the German com- method of sepa.rate tests. Free time munity. Perhaps we have been is at a premium in certain sources wrong for this last half century, and we feel that the sacred hour in believing hat all men should of relaxation at noon should not progress according to their ability be encroached upon. Although, and not according to their race or there have not been too many of religion, and no, not even accord- these departmental exams of this ing to their political c.onvictions. variety as yet, the trend seems to It is. late in the history of the indicate a rapid increase and now second world war to realize that is the time to stop them. those who did not help fight Hitler, Your truly, . helped him by simply doing A. WARD HENDRICKSON, . 'th fi ht ALAN D. RABER, nothing. Similarly, one et er g 8 FRANCIS M. MEEHAN, JR. or helps l'aCial and religious bigo- try. The greatest dan!l'er to demo- D;;iir'\\'Editor, cracy 1s not the lyncher, but the Allow me to congi'ahilate you mal studies. He should, above all, ·be taught that brotherhood is a living thing and that limited broth- erhood. whether practiced by b,usi- ness, state, or .fraternity, is an ab- solute contradiction Of all that Americanism in its best sense stands for. To say that society condones different discrimination and that therefore one, must ac- cept it is, to say the least, too fatalistic an attitude. After all, not. so very long ago, society condoned cannibalism and still does in cer- tain parts of the world. Did this ever make cannibalism proper? I have seen racial discrimina- tion in its worst form in Europe; and I know that this form of dis- crimination differs but quap,tita- tively and not at all philosoph- ically from the \harmless form\ that we are dealing with here. The basic philosophy behind both forms is the same; superiority of man over man. Any di:acrimina- tion at any place, at any time is a very dangerous, very evil 'l,nd thoroughly despicable thing. T-he parallel with Phi Beta Kappa is, I believe, not well drawn. Phi Beta Kappa is not a social fraternity and never was meant .as such. It \discriminates i.f we can call this discrimination and J rather doubt it, not on account of race, coftr, creed or any other fac- tor by birth unalterable but t•ather honors those who have managed t.s' achieve a high goal. Allow me to urge all readers, in fairness to themselves and in fair- ness to the responsible position which they may once assume, not to hide behind a wall of lip service to ideals · or to democracy. One either has these ideals and then one practices them, lives them, works for them, or one does not have those ideals. · Sincerely .yours, ERICH H. LOE~Y. FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Bevera<;JBS PHONE 6·9554 1115 IARRETT STREET FRIDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1948 Mountebanks ·Review 81 George_ zopf 1 g 35 wasn't exactly a cheerf~l is well w.orth your attention, and by .a gauc~e quality that o~ly ex- - the current Mou11tebanks' produc-. per1ence wrll remove. This g1rl has year, and Robert Sherwood's \Petri: · tion should pl~ase you. lt. fled Forest\ which takes place in '· d Hugh Wisof'J!, as the football play- . ~ The initial commendatJon shou.l that \ear isn't exactly cheerful. · t ' lng Eoze, demonstrated competence \ go to Jackson Davis, the dtrec or. rhe story of •a penniless, self-dis- Since a great many of the acto~s once a:gain, and sta}\ed well withi:p. h fi d pur \'el·e fiedg.ell·ngs, most of the qedtt · his character. Bill\Van Ost played gusted esthete w o n s so,me : ,. Gratnp Maple without self•doubt, pose for himself in puHing a mo~l- for their performances should go. and succeeded in ·being one of the fled Sidney Carton to give the gu·l . to Mr. Davis. I will tl<'Jt claim. that. finest charact€r actors, I h:we seen he newly loves the benefits of a I thought he capture<! completely in- the Mountebanks. J.ack Imrie $5000 insurance policy, it is also what I feel to be the mood of the and Jackie Caden, -as Mr. and Mi's. the story of the latter years of the. play. At times I had th~ ~eel!ng Chisholm, tended to burlesque their Great Depression, with its dis- that he was incautiously tnJectmg . parts more than. sel')med riglit ·to gruntled laborers, its disillusioned slightly more thari ·Sherwood in- veterans, its men left behind some- tended; some portions smelled of me, but if humor W!J.S int_enc'(ed, how, when the world turned a new untenable symbolis~. ,. . they did I'ight well. c·orner. Much of the play seems Graham Martin, as Alan Squier, • · Bill Herrman, as' Duke Mantee, amusing now, wryly so. The hope has a long way to go yet. Wholly the d'esperado, did the fin.e.st. job Sf Squier, the esthete, that the gen- h' 1 among the male parts. His tense ld b admirable in some of 18 011ger. eration then growing up wou e and' more fervent speeches, he had. restraint was jt1st as it shou)d be. ,he children of Nature, has not d · As Squier was wont to point .out, h an irregular phrasing an ac- been fulfilled, because we are t ose. centuation in his conversatiop. that . he was a child of Nature par excel- ~~~:.~r~~· st~l~t~~thg~es~\::~o::-wi~~ was distracting. A slight wooden- lence. curse, the dull, sodden little lives ness, which may have been natural Among .the supporbpg charac- iike that of Jasont.'IMaple, who must reserve, had somewhat the same ters, Ben Ross, as Pyles, the 'Negr<;> &ain the self-respect he cannot. effect. ·desperado, stood out with his eash· .;ain in competition by joining ~he Elaine Wallace, who played. ness and appropriate attitude, Art .\merican Legion and blustermg Gabby, was most nearly, of ~11 Kean, as Jason Maple, was as sour: ~gainst Bolshevism. those on stage, a natural. Her m-. as he could be, but it wasn't quite As a ,period piece and as a mean- 1 terpretation of the c<;>mplex Gabby enough. No belit.tlei' of his obvious ngful pltLy, th~ \Petrified Forest\ was skillful and pleasmg, hampered abiJ.ity, he seemed miscast' here. The Happy Hour By J ame~, .-Boor ~ . The other day I happened to tune 1 TIPP~: No, father, I don't s·ec heard the stiffled cries of ·:Lassie. n on my radio to a new program what you meah. · 'There is· a screeching of .tires, and ·hich stars Lassie in the feature LASSIE: (Seeing perfectly well· Randolph, Tippy, and a cordon of ·ole. Since it is well known that what McDean means st-ands up and. police ai-rive on the scene. his dog shares a place in movie- barks). RANDOLPH: Break down that !om along with such tioHywood TIPPY: sssh Lassie·; that's a door! (A crashing of wood and the at as Sabu and Dorothy La- L : t' t en·tt're party pours into. the office of :re s · . good' girl; sssh. c asste con mues o nour, I decided that I would like whimper in the background· Ca!ig\lla.) to attempt a script for the famous throughout the l'emainder of the RANDOLPH: All right,. Caligula, mimal. If he doesn't like it and scene.) you evil genius, we've got you· at tnyone knows of a clever dog who McDEAN: I had to put Lassie up last. (The term \red handed\ may .vould want to take a crack at the 1 th be added 1'f. desired.) as collateral, Tip; he was al e lead, I would appreciate them let- doc would take. I knew he'll be, CALIGULA: (Whose voice sounds .ing me know. like a cross :between Tallulah Bank- TilE DOGGIES • HOUR . good to him. Ppy ( I · h) No, head, Bela I,.ugosi, and the Shadow) (witft thanlis to Lillian Hellman) TI : rea angU!s · father, no. You haven't got any~hing on me, The play opens in the modest liv- ng room of Timothy McDean. We ind McDean seated in front of a low fire -with his 11 year old son, .'ippy, standing before him,. Lassie, eyeing father and son, lies in the corner of the roo.m. McDEAN: As I've 13aid, son, I've got something to teil you, and I know that you'll take it right be- cause you're- a McDean. LASSIE: <whines apprehensively and Tippy goes to comfort him). TIPPY: Go ahead, father; tell me the worst. <Strokes Lassie who growls restlesslstl) McDEAN: It's just this, son. You know your little sister's been sick all these months with the pip, and there's JJeen doctor bills. Well, it hasn't been easy son for me ever since your mother died her so sick and all too, and I just got des- perate for money. LASSIE: (Looks up and growls worriedly). McDEAN: Well, Tip old scout, there's a doc in New Jersey I met one day named Caligula, and he offered me quite a ·sum of money on a. note. <blurts this out). That was a longtime ago, though, and now the notes due, and he's want- ng to collect it. You understand. •1on't you, son; you know it was the nlv thing I could do. McDEAN: I'm sorry Tip, but he's Randolph. got to go. The doc's waiting for A POLICEMAN: (Coming out of him outside now. (Scene ends to· another room) The dog's in here, swelling organ music, Lassie bark- chief. Ca!igula's got him crucified ing, and the cries of Tip and .Me- to the wall and there's a table full Dean as the dog is dragged out- of instruments. side.) RANDOLPH: Good work, cut the Scene II is a neighborhood curb- poor animal down. One minute stone where Tippy sits sobbing. Bill more and Caligula would have fin- Randolph, chief of police, sees the ished him. Come here, murderer, boy crying and goes to comfort <·Grabs Caligu!a.) him. , . CALIG.ULA: Ta)l:e your hands off RANDOLPH: What's the matter, me! I was performing an experi- Tip; it can't be as bad as all that. ment in the interests of science. TIPPY: Yes it is Mr. Randolph. RANDOLPH: Don't make me My father sold Lassie and 1:11 never laugh, Caligula; that bluff doesn't see him again. go in this State. We're on to you RANDOLPH: Sold him! (imme- and your rotten kind. (At this point dia~ely ·suspicious) To whom? a cry of .dismay goes up from the TIPPY: I don't know. Some doc- group. A policeman carries Lassie into the room.) tor in New Jersey. RANDOLPH: Good Lord, was his LASSIE: (Gives a happy yelp on name Caligula? seeing Tippy.) TIPPY: <still sobbing) Yes, do A POLICEMAN: (Holding Lassie you know him? in his arms), Chief, do you know RANDOLPH: .You bet I know who this dog is. She's the one that him. We've been trying to get our saved me on G.uad-alcanal. hands on that vivisectionist for RANDOLPH: What a coinci- months. Come on, boy, we've got to dence! Come on, dog killer; we've hurry before it's too late. (A little got a cell for you. (\Bulldog Bull- chase music on the organ for a dog, . Bow-Wow-Wowv or some faae out.) other appropriate song is played Scene III opens outside of Calig- quietly as Lassie is carried out ula's office. Frow within can be barking in sheer joy.) 11sa FREEMAN ~oe with COBBLE-SEWN SEAMS For luxurious loafin' you can't beat this marvelous moc- casin. Special thick-skinned leather and exclusive Moccasin last for greater com- fort and service. Flexible soles. $9.95 NUSBAUM~s 447 State Street ,- \ FRIDAY, Ca Un take t Sa turd Bas Fa\ Coac over a .after d a stror Gym a the Wi Engi The l eighteen teams ( be a str as the l formida· lettern:e year's v Union l cagers Webb l Union E to Ame Bro.okl;v The should tion fm Willian avenge by Uni< Boun vigor a Dutoh:n aggress first q1 contest sters p halftin in the able t Dutchi good t fact ii distrib high l ten p DiCk and. ; eight i 24th g with van tal The a lar! up th• been a 3 I Verm• five ' the 1 Cata11 ...

1948 Zopj lly ex- irl has 1 play- •eteilce. within played -doubt, of the e seen !;mrie d Mrs. e their g.J:it·to ._<mqed, tan tee, .st. job tense I}d ·be. 1t .out, excel-· harac- Negr<;:> s eash· :e, Art .s sour ; quite bvious ere. Baar Lassie. ts, and :lon of :1 that nd the 'fice of cligula, (ou· at ''may sounds Bank- .adow) •n me, out of L here, uclfied •le full :utthe ninute ve fin- ~derer, ~ds off lXperi- mce. :e me loesn't :o you ; point m the Lassie elp on Lassie know e that ~oinci­ we've , Bull- some played d out F.RIDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1948 Ca·gers Strong •• 1n Home D-ebut With B. P.l. Tomorrow; Merme:n Crack ·Records Tw·o • 1n Action ctt V..ermont ~------------~~----------~--~ R~c:ord Brdakers SCOREBO~RD .by I..!==Dick Roberts--. Bl!l Grant, 5'11\ 23 year old co-· captain on this year's Garnet five, native of Queens Vi!lage, L.I., is a graduate of Cah-. ~,. · ·- · m in ad 11, High. ' School, Mineola,· wb.er.e he played· varsity. b as k e t- ball. Duting the war he served as .a nav·igator in the U.S . M a r i t i m e Service. He entered Un- ion in 1946, and in his first season of play he became first string goalie on the lacrosse team and captain of the j,V. basketball team. Last season Bill earned the reputation as an accurate ball handler and one • • of the best set shots on the team. Bill is a member of Delta Upsilon fraternity. Ed Henk, 6 foot, 170 lb. speed Photo, by Bob Schwartt Swimmers Dick Johnson, upper photo, and Co-Captain Joe Tafel, below, exhibit the form that (inabled them to break recOI\ds Saturday against Br9oldyn Poly in Foo.te Pool. -- Courtesy '\Vermont Cynic\ demon from Rensselaer has about T k s· B kl Union's Dick Ro~r.ts, 3, and Bill Kuznawski,are deterinined to the most experience of any member . an· men wamp roo yn take the ball away ·from Vermont's Kolarczylr, in the game last of this season~s 'Garnet five. Ed · Saturday at Burlington 1 • made the All-Albany basketball p I t h • b 54 24 s -----~~-..:__---.....,..---------...--- team in '44 _while attending Van~- 0 y ec niC y iii _core Rensselaer H1gh. He entered Holy - Baskelba - llers Tr·.umph Over Cross in '44 and became a regular. ~ . on the Crusaders basketball' team, The Union College swimmers, ~----~-----------, ··which posted a 10 win 6 loss record J)ac·ed by tb.e record breaking per- Fay . red w· esleyan nu••ntet that season .. Ed, who is known as formance of Co-Captain Joe Tofel · 0 . . . · ,. · ''Harry the Horse\ by his friends, and Dick Johnson, swamped Brook- entered Union in '45 winning a let- lyn Poly 52-24 in their inaugural Coach Pete Nistad's Garnet hoopsters, victorious 56-~6 ter for baseball. He led the team last Saturday, -and ar·e now anx-1 over a potent Wesleyan five Wednesday in a thrilling upset, with a .3;3? batting average. i~uslyHaw~littingcthlleir clasChl. wtith The Marines got Henk in '45, and nval am1 on · o ege at 1n on . after dropping the 'Season's opener to Vermont 42-39, tackle while in •service he played on the n_ext Friday. a strong Brooklyn Poly quintet tomorrow night in Alumni Philadelphia Naval~Base five which Gym and then travel to Williamstown Wednesday to engage regist(Jred a 64 win 1 loss record Records Fall the Williams' cage:rs. - while clinching the service title. He Tofel shattered the college 200 also played for the Quantico Ma- yard breaststroke mark that be as- Engineers Have Tlill Squad rine Base baseball team. Ed came tablished last year as he turned in The Brooklyn Poly game, the back to Union in '46 and has played a 2:46 performance. This bettered. eighteenth rr eeting of the two Noggin-Knockers Prep varsity basketball ever since. He the old record by two-tenths of a teams (Union has won 11), should For New york Contest hangs his hat at Phi Gamma Delta second. Johnson's 79.6 score in the be a strong test for the Dutchmen, fra:ternity. dive broke Paul Sharidan's stand- as the Poly Engineers have a tall Vie Starzenski's Union College Odds and Ends ard .of 78.3. S.amal was the rr).eet's f 'd bl d Th h ve four lacrosse squad will tl'avel to u E lone double winner, as he ·turned ormt a e squa . . ey a New York to ·clash with the · nion trainer, d Fitz, was once lettermen returning from last trainer for the West Point athletic in triumphs in the 50 and 100 yard d th Seventh Remment Armory Club f t 1 t year's varsity, which trounce e o· Of\ teams. . . . Football coach, John ree s Y e even s. h 1 of New York City, Saturday, Union basll:eteers 61-40. T e Po Y McLaughry, recently wrote a very John Isbister took the 440 yard __.. D-ecember 18, as a result of an., cagers have posted victorit:\ over fine article for the \Masonic Fam- free style in 5:35.5 with Heinz invitation with expenses parti- Webb Institute 54-31 and Coopel' C b' ily\ magazine entitled \Football Straeudle taking third. Former · · ally paid ·by the Armory lu s Union 66-58, while dro·pping a patr 1 t and the High School Athlete.\ . . . captain Jim Courter was first in Coach AI Brizotti, an en thus as· to American University 55-52 and and editor of the \Lacrosse Trinity College had 65 men out for the 220 yard free style with Gene Bro·oklvn College 53-42. Guide.\ freshmen football this season. . . . B-enman coming in third. The win\ The big Purple from Williams . The Armory squad consists of The programs hal).ded out at the ning time was 2:38.2. The 150 yard should provide some tough opposi- all ex-college stars, and the \box swimming :m_eet ·Saturday were b~tck stroke was snared by Frank tion for the Union five ·Wednesday. ' lacrosse\ contest will be staged very helpful to the audience. Rapant in 2:04.3 with Dolph Shultz Williams will be attempting to on the fio.or of the New Yorlt --:::================2=======:::==::::-- avenge the last year's ~8,44 beating' Armory. by Union. Garnet \noggin-knockers; to Wesleyan Outplayed make the trip are: Flynn, For- Bouncing back with renewed esta, George, Greve, Pahl, Snell, vigor after the Vermont defeat, the Blumenstock, Causey, Coonan, Dutchmen '()Utran and outplayed an DeMarco, Hass, Hflfnagle, Mott, aggressive Wesleyan quintet. The Reeb, alld Wagner. The first first quarter was close and hotly six men listed above Will start contested, however, the Union hoop- for the Garnet. sters pulled away and led 31-26 at ~.,.- _______ .;:_ _______ , abled them to co-ntrol the back- hoards. Co-CaptaJn Jim Pemr.ick paced the Garnet by. p'ouring in twelve points: Dick Speidel chip~ ped in with nine counters. ey, fel/c .ARROW WHITg: SHIRTS OXFORD AND BROADCLOTH Whalen Cor.;npared With Bednarik by Columnist The New York Daily Mirror Columnist, Dan Parker, gave Ken Whalen, one of the best football centers in Union's his- tory, a real plug in his column of December 6. \Ken Whalen, Union's star center, was converted from a quarterback duripg the past season, and is being mentioned in the same breath with Charlie Bednarik by those who know what that implies,\ said Parker. Penn's Bednarik was just elect- ed the lineman of the year by the Associated Press. finishing second. The medley trio of Don Mead <backstroke), Bob Diamond (breaststroke l, and Isbis- ter (crawll won the 300 yard med- ley relay in 3:22. John Berbert and Herman Haus also scored for th.e Dutchman ' in the sprints and breaststroke. Opener LOOSE ENDS by 11=:=::::.:= Herb Saxe ==::1 After their rather shaky start, Union's hoopsters seemed to be well on .the way to a successful season . Perhaps the art of pre-seaon fore- casting is risky at best; but I cap. see .Jittle reason to assume less than a final .500 average for the courtmen after the final ball is dropped through the hoop. Coach Nistad was disappointed to set> his c ha1·ges drop their opener 'to Vermont by such a close score. Pete says the loss was due to what he terms \b I g gameitis\. \Big gameitis\. is what happens to a basketball play- er when he is tw·ned loose on a full sized court after he has been practicing for weeks inside of a hall closet. Had the gam-e lasted . another two or three minutes, Nistad feels sure that his charges would have overcome the sllm·three .point margin held by the Catar mounts. On th-e other hand, rumor has it that the ball players themselves feel that Nistad does not permit a winning com'bination to operate unless the comho starts to click as soon as it is turned out on the floor. Evidently Nistad fmd~d the winning combination last Wednes- day night, and from all evidences he let them play . 'Potentially Union has a good sound ball team. There is height, speed and balance. Mix all these up with the right coach and you can't help but turn out a winning combo. Granted the hoopste:I:s have a tougher than average schedule; but I think we have a better than ave1·age squad. _... When we held our home games in the Armory, it was pitiful to see the number of students at times. As a result, the athletic de- partment felt it unwise to charter the Armory again this year. To sound an old note once again, let's give a good substantial cheer. Let the opposition know that the total enrollment at Union is more than twelve students. You support the team, not the guy be- hind you, but YOU. \ARDEN\ B R 0 A D c I. 0 T H halftime .. The Wesrren drove hard in the second half, but were un- able to overcome the high-flying Dutchmen. The Garnet played good team ball as indicated by the fact 11hat the scoring was evenly distributeij. Dick Speidel won the high scorers laurel by garnering ten points, while Jim Pemrick, DiCk Roberts, \Cookie\ Sherwin, anci. Jim Carmjchael racke!l up eight ma,rkers apiece. This was the 24th .game bet'\\en the two schools, with Union still h<il'ding the ad~ vantage with 13 win:;~. For Car Troubles. See a ONION MAN WtUCU ARROW WHITE SHIRT DO YOU PREFER? The Dutchmen, unaccustomed to a large court, were unable to set up the double pivot plays they had been practicing, which resulted· in a 3 point defeat at the hands of : Vermont list Saturday. ,The Union , five was also handicapped due to the height advap.tage which the j Catamounts enjoyed, and thus en- , William H. _Plath 601 Union Street AUTO SE.RVICE .. WE KNOW YOU WILL .ALWAYS REMEMBER THE' '• JAY JEWELRY COo HEADQUARTERS For HATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens gnc:j the Finest Gifts _ Corner Sfaf,.. ond Cen.tor Sts. We have on hc;md a nice selection of your favorite Arrow shirts in several collar models-button-down, spread, reg- ular and short p6int. Don't forget-only Arrows have famous-for-fit Arrow collcirs, torso tapered Mitoga shape, the Sanforized label, meaning less than 1% shrinkage; and anchored 'buttons. NUSBA U~~s --------ARROW SHIRTSrc-- ~----· \FENWAY\ \DOUBLER\ \SUSSEX\ 0 X F 0 R D Almost everyone has two or three favorite Arrow white shirt models in crisp Gordon oxford or snowy broadclolh. These and other models are now available at your favorite Arrow store: See them today! · Broadcloth shirts from $3.65. Oxfords at $3.95. ARROW D )< SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS ' SPORTS SHIRTS .... , ... . - • ·.j

t (!'. 4 FRID.A.Y. DECEMPER. ·10, 1948 I ...__ __ _ I For vour T.n· .e t• WRUC Plays Santa ..• Veto House Use J. 4 ' ' .IJ .· I 0 rma zon· The Schenegtt;tdy Board of ,Zon- ' The twenty-fourth annua:l Christ- ~. The WRUC toy drive h<>s fallen ing A,ppeals h!J,s 'denied the ·col!ege mas music festival wlll be held short of expectations, a member of the use of a house at 1:811 Avon MONDAY, JANUARY 17 ------1 Sund·ay in Memorial Chapel. The Station WRUC announced .the the radio station staff said this Road for Dr. Ernest Ligoi:).'s Qhai.'- ·8:30-11:30 MONDAY, JANUARY 2tl morni'ng service wm consist of or- special· Chvistmas week ·program week. . acter R7search :Project. FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE F 1 8:30-11:30 gan muslc and hymns by the con· schedule. In addition to the an· p rl:: rench a, French 2a, French 2b, E d h d 1 Plans for the party at the Chil-, resident varter 'Dav4dson .said ~;~~:~ i:: ~Pe~~=~ ~=.· ~pearmn 1 ·ashn 2 2 bb •. por~~~o~~s 2 iJla(s~~~~. ~· r2~P~~/te~ ~~;~~~~~~~st~o~ft~~\~nor~~i?ar .~!~e~ ~~~~~~ ~~ri~t~=s a~u:~r~llpr~~ dren's Home on December 15 In- th.at in aJI prOb'ability the college \' CE 106), Economics llb <·sec. 1 re- c~mmunity. carol sing in t'he eve- played in betw'len times. elude music, movies, stories, and Will sell the htijldjJ!g. He em- 1:30-4:30. port to CE 106'), Economics 39a mng. Two points ,credit for th'l Monday, S p.m.~Chtistmas Party wit·h George Winch in a costume loaned .p~as!zed the fact that the college ! History of Art, Economics 40a, Bi- (sec. 1 report to EE 22 ) HI'stor. y. afternoon recital. all-star cast including Bob by the H. S. Barney Co. In the rble Will. notbappea;lt the qecision of the o ogy 12a, Chemistry 22a, Physics 64a, ' Th Hore and Peggy Lee. ··of Santa Claus. Refreshments will zonmg . oard d the city council. 24a, Electrical- Engineering SO, . 11 ~ nhexlt Sunday c.Q.apel service Tuesday 7 :30 ~ Dickens' \Christmas be donated by Freihofers Baltery, When th~ college petitioned tll,e St t 1 ·30 • 30 WI e e d January 9, 1949. Carol,\ broadcast from tl1e c boa d f th f rue ural Design (Term 7) Struct- • -.,: The Hershey · o. and arranony1]1oUs'' r · o ·: e use o the house it B . 1 * * • . Delta Phi House, and per- 1 .. • ural Design <Term 8), Electrical· . 10 ogy 1a, Biology lla, Meehan- A general organization meet·I·ng formed by members of the fra· person. The Carl Co. is donating. mere Y sougl;lt 3. ruling,. the pnesi• Engineering 37a, EE 37b. Ics 11a, Mechanics llb, Geology 1 a f ternity. · tickets to tlleir annual Christmas dent said. ... . ~ · Psycho.Iogy 24 a. • 0 the Junior prom committee is 8 :30 - Otiginal Christmas· t t b h Id t h PI '' TUESDAY, J·ANUARY 18 scheduled for M:onday evening :De- poet!')', read by Angela Nap]Ji. par Y 0 e e ·a t e a~ · 8:30-11 ~so. camber 19. All interested •u~iors ' 9 :30\\;'\The MessHth\ performed Theater, and the Welcome Bus. hou_r of the. -ptrty, ·to be ppoadc-ast Comp t' L't 20 · TUESDAY, J•ANUARY 25 m ·t • by S1r Thomas Beecham and ·Line is supplying transportation to·. WRUC t ·' ara tve 1, IJ., History 21a, 8 : 80 _ 11 : 30 . aY con.act John Debello~,. Alpha the 'B.B.C. Symphony Orches· the theater. . ov-er a ~U:J:e'-thirty 'that Math. 1a, (sec. 6 report to EE 22), Delta Phi, for further information. tra. night and by WSNY ·Christmas Math. 2a (sec. 2 report to EE 22), Greek 11a, English 21a, German * • * Wednesday s :00-The r~clio worltshop WRUC plans to record a half. Eve. Math. lla (sec. 6 report to EE 22) ; 1 ?a, Ger~an 24a, Spanish 20a, So- Students :vho don't expect to re- presents ''Silent Night.\ · :;~;:;;;;:;~;;;:;;~~;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~. EE 34. ' em! Studies 41a, Chemistry 2a Math turn the seconcj. semester must ~~i~dr~;~, 0 'i'i~~e. of . party at II • : . · _ e registrar's of-. Thursday, 9·:30-Bach's I3 !\iinor Mass. 1·30-4 30 42 1 2 .a, Math 21a, Psychology lb', E E , report to th · ~ Music lOa, Latin la, English (· fLee at once, e:Jtcept term eight, Friday, 7 :30-\Centuries of Christmas.\ 27a,_ Spanish lOa, Sociology 18a, 1 :30-4:30 ~~ugf~~ta~'sit 0 fwf.J~cse.announced QY ·the -.---o ~ociology 31a, Biology 14a, Chern- Frenc~ 21a, German 5, Russian tstry 23a, Geology 2a, Math 2lb, 2a, Soctal Studies lOa, Social Students who plan to change Psychology llb, COncrete, Soil Geology 12a, (Report to GL2 4 ) their currJ~ula and have not al- Mechanics, E E 43. Psychol?gy 12a, Physics 31 a Fluid ready beeri given permission. to do ·WEJ;}NESDAY, JANUARY 19 Mechamcs, Engineering Eco~omics ·so by the dean, should consult with 8.30-11:30 EE 13. • him without . delay, History 32a, Economics 45a Re- • All technical schedules will be ligion 61a, Physics, 4a, (sec 2 ,' :!, 6 , WEDNESD.-\Y, JANUARY 26 . made. in the registrar's office report to EE 22), Physics 14a (sec. 8:30-ll:30 It is assumed that .students. now 4, 5 report to EE 22). Government 12a, Gov. 12b, Phi los- t?-king \a\ part courses will con- 1:30-4:SO ophy 34a, Economics 52a, Geology tm~e in \b\ part of those courses C 2b, E E 15. Engineering 27a Cre- nex, sem~ster. Any student who E ~~hpa 3 r 0 ative Lit. 25a, Latin 21a, , port to c. E. 303 ) E E 4 1. can~ contmue in the courses which ng ts a, Spanish 11, Italian 1a,. he Is now taking must report to History 2~a, Government 48a Bi- 1 :30-4:30 ~he registraP's office before Christ- o logy 13a, Geology 22a, Math, 2 · Biology llb, Psychology la (sec. mas r'Bcess. 22b, Math. 31a, Law 1b, Water Sup- • 5 report to EE 22), Psychology Schedules will be made during ply. · lla (sec 2 report to EE 22) ·struc- t?e period of January 3-12, inclu- THURSDAY, JANUARY 20 ture~, E E36. ' SIVe. Students in courses· posted 8:30-11:30 THURSDAY, JANUARY 27 ~ust report to their advisers dur- Economics 49, Chemistry la (sec mg that period. 3, 8,. 9, report to EE 22) Chemistry 8 :SO-l1.,: 30 · · The course program will be avail- 12a, Chemi::1try 21a, E E 23 (report lb M;sicalh Appreciation, A mer. Civ. able for reference beginning Wed- to EE 22.) , ' ren.c · 20a, Phil. 17a, Phil. 29a, nesday, December 15, at the library' 1 :S0-4 :SO Econonucs 46a, Geology 23a ere- and the registrar's_ office. · port to GL23 ) Math 2,., E E 40 a E E 40b -· ' 1:30-4:30 Phi Sig Xmas Party Phi Sigma Kappa will hold a Christmas party .for local orphans at Silliman Ha.Jl from 4-7 p.m .. Thursday, ·December 16. Supp'Br and gifts will be provided for the children, who are inmates of the Schenectady Childrens' Home. The, entertainment .Js under the chair-· manship of William M. Mott. GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY · Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING I U .. S. A·RMY SKI·ES Lam·inated Steet Edges 7 Foot length Army Surplus SKI CUMBE·RS , 7 Foot Mohair DOWN & FEATHER SLEEPING :BAGS New Single Bat;-Ext~a Long .. Sra@p Fa dernred fr©nt ........ ~-. $12.9 5 \\' ,·. U.S. Army, Surplus~NOT \Army Style\ G O~L_D·S T 0 C K·' S 121 N. BROADWAY SCHENECTADY Greek la, English 24a, French lOa, German 12, Economics 38a, Bi- ology 22a, Geology lb, Math. 12b Education 3a, Education 4a, High: ways and Airports, Structures (Term 7l, E E 29, E E 33. FRID1\ Y, JANUARY 21 Latin lla, Eng. 22a, Eng. 25a, Hlstnry 22 a. ~OC'ial Studies 36a Gov. 4~a, Sociology 57a, Religio~ 67 a. Bwlogy 23a, Chemistry 1la (}eology 24a, Math 22a Physics 26b, Law la, Railro<l;ds and Highways.' 245 STATE ST.-8lnce 1893 WRUC will broadcast the Brook- lyn Poly game tomorrow night for the benefit of those una.ble to at- I tend. i ~-----.-----~~~~~~~·r---=---:-:--:- ~·~==========~~~ 8:30-11:30 English la, (sec. 7, 8 report to EE 22), English lOa (sec. 4 re- po.rt to EE 22l, American Civ. 1a. Htstory 24a. 1:30-4:30 Economics 37a, Government 47a. History 65a, Chern. 3la, :\lath llb, Math 31b, Engineering 27b (report to C E 303). SATURDAY, JA:SUARY 22 8:80-11:30 Engli~h 13n ThP :v!ount<'hnnks Theater. Eng-li'h 23a. History la. History lf.a, Biology 21a. Mech'anics of ::\lat. 20a, :\!echanics of :\!aterial 20b. 1:30-1:30 Russian la, Government 35a Eco- nomics 43a, Chern 25a, Physic's 25a, Sewage_ A new address- The same service- reliable and competent Call 3-6700 • Union Cleaners Prompt Delivery Service LANGE & RAPP .-,, Pharmacy PRESCR I PYlONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS ~ DRUGS Cor. NOTI TERRACE and STATE STREET FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 1911 Conflicts should be reported to the dean's office before January 7. II For the Finest IN MEN•s CLOTHING CHAS. HOLTZMAN .&SON 259 STATE STREET SERVING UNION'S MEN FpR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS _TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Near FERRY ·A Sweetheart Pin is a Treasured Xmas Gift. Delight your Best Girl with a beautiful crested gift or minia- ture Sweetheart Pin. · CARL SORENSEN 30 Murray AvE'., Waterford, N.Y. TelPphone Waterford 641 L. G. Balfour Co. Cleaners and Dyers Ball's Inc. Shoe Rebullders 633 State St. 204 Union St •. .PHONE 6-3456 ~/D. R1 tiSO\\~ {)\\\\\}l~AvsT.JlWEURS II 166 · Jay StreQt Ill Calf Ball and Ball Will Calf II My smoke is CHESTERFIELD . - . 1n my new p1cture, WHEN MY BABY SMILES AT ME. I always smoke CHESTERFIELDS. T~ey're MILDER ••• STARRING IN 17 WHEN MY BABY SMILES AT ME A 20th CENTURY-FOX TECHNICOLOR PRODUCTION , rJMML /3~ ABC GIRL- University of Oklahoma says- ~ \I smoke· Chesterfields because I know they'll alway$ give me the Cooler, Better, MILD8R smoke I really go for!\ on~ James dent .at l {shown ti car near The ac lege girl The [ Falls, w.J 23, of B1 Tiernan, girl is E One By E\l Even after the to believ what it very hap ful drea1 so quick! ... who neck in The pi .. M autopsy. Ilion .. One B,y 1 I can't you whE at Unior anyone ford M• classes game h tending. As a it is al~ as an death o This 1 pattern the nil of da: .A School, Union. 4 daigua the ro. 8 proxitl juries tions ' The lucky, and e piece. was. : Tha WI. 'V it is · I r tlu!.t tell last daigt Oil It wife well- with it \ wne1 A

of Zon- col)ege . :1, Avon s Qhar- m said college Ie em- college l of the council red 'tue Quse, it e pr.eEJi\ oadcast :y that ristmas s le\ .\DY Which Will It Be·:Holly Wreath or Fu.neral Wreath? One Wh.o __ Died NE?WS lt?m:~Novembet 14, 1948 It takes nearly a quarter of a century to grow a man. It takes but a split second to destroy one. Of what use are planning and effort which~ have brought you fl!om infancy to early manhood if you destroy yourself before you test the dreams and am- bitions you have shaped? Elsewhere on this page two aut0m()bile accidents in which . Union College students wer:e killed or injm•ed are described, not s0Tely in the cold terms of the newswriter, but also in the emotional words of these personally affected. Within these stories lies the truth, the stark tragedy that must come as the result of an auto accident. We hope that ~JI.. may benefit from the experiences of those who had to learn the hard way. Think ·it over. The decision rests largely in your hands. You know the rules for safe driving. Use your common sense. Don't sacrifice a lifetime in a va:in at- tempt to· save one or two insignificant minutes. Which will_ be y01:1r choice-a Christmas wreath or a funeral wreath? Founded at Union College in 1877 James Clifford McGlone, 19, of Forest Hills, Long Island, a stu- ~--:-. -...------------------------------------------------------ dent .at Union College, died tonight 16 hours after ti1e automobile Vol. 76, No. 13 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FttlbAY, DECEMBER 17, 1948 PRICE 10 CENTS {shown above) in which he was riding was in collision with another·--------------------------:------------------------------------------------------ carT~~a:c~;;~~;;::n;;:r::~z;:g~::::·tudentsandaSkidmoreCol-.IF' c· ... M·· .. ·ay H·. ···o·l.·d w· I·n· ter D· .. a· nee· lege gzrl to llzon H ospztal. . .. · · . . . . · · · The Union studen·ts are Francis ], Matthews, 23, of Hudson . ' Falls, who suffered a broken neck and head cuts; James McAllister, s·. St A e t . ,. t M d 23, of Brooklyn, bot•h of whose legs were fractured; and JamesMc- . IX· .. ' ag·· e· . ppo· In men ·o . a e T_iern.an, of Lit~l'e\ Falls, ~ho suffered head cuts. The Skidmore . · . · . · · · · · .· . · · . · . • . · fO . · _. . ·. gzrl zs Eve-Marze Bourqum, of Concord, Mass. The i h t e rf rater n i-~· ---------~-----------~-.;0 Six men out of the January graduating class of 86 have received stage appointments for the com- mencement exercises, ac· cording to Dean Huntley. One Who Loved By EVE,MARIE BOVRQUIN paired, but rparks will always re- · Even now, alp10st five weeks mathl. on the h(:Jart of everyone who after the accident, it is still hard knew and loved Cliff. Time will to believe that it happened and ease the sor~ow, it is true, and only what it means~the end of some <;herished memories will 'linger. ty council discussed poss- ibilities of holding a mid- winter dance in an infor- . mal meeting yesterday· afternoon. very happy days and many beauti- Tragedies like this one can be The action followed by a ful dreams. They ail disupp·eared made fewer only by ver,. watchful , · so quickly. , driving. Though you m~y be care- week a decision of the student ... who suffered serious head and ful, someone you meet might not. council not to hold such a. neck .injuries • • • This means that every one of us dance, despite a two-to-one The physical d~age will be re- must be doubly careful. 'v<:>te in -favor of a dance 'by. students polled in chapel . . . McGlone's death was ascribed to a fractured skull, Pending· several weeks ago. autopsy. The body was removed to the Applegate Funeral Horne, It was decided at the IFC meet- Ilion . . ing to refer the matter ~o the in- dividual fraternity houses for meni- . . bership votes, the results of which One JVho Saw B,y MALVIN APPLEGA!J.'E Something happens, you don't know how, but it does. A head-on collision r1 ambulance rushes you to a hospital. Your distracted parents are notified. will be considered at an IFC meet· ing Jan. 4, 1949. In a .preliminary surv<~y by The Concordiensis late last night it was found that of eight fraternities which have discussed the matter, six were in favor of a midwinter · dance, with two opposed. · ---· 0•--..-- Santa Visits Orphans Three of the men ar engi- neers and science majors. Charles N. Vallette, B.S. in E.E., has been chosen vale- dictorian . The other men are: Dominic A. Cusano, B.S. in Physics; Robert C. Davis, B.S. in E.E.; Kenneth J. Male, BS. in C.E.; Frederick E. Steigert, B.S. in Physics; Roy A . Westlund, Jr., Bachelor of ScienGiJ. All six men are members of Sig- ma Xi, hol).orary f!Cientific society. Westlund is also. a member of Phi Beta Kappa. I can't rub a magic lamp and tell you whether or not you'll be ·back at Union in January, anymore than anyone could have been sure Clif- ford McGlone would be back to classes Mond!LY ·after the football game he and· his friends. were at- tending. As a ·mortician in a smart- town, it is· also part of my duties to act as an ambulance driver. In the death of Cliff, McGlone I was both. .. , ~McGlone was the son of Mrs. Carl McGlone of Forest Hills ... You may be lucky and pull thro11gh with no more than a scarred face, ·broken legs, ·back or neck, which will keep you in the hospital for several weeks. Then again, you may be there only a few hours . . , like Clifford Mc- Glone. Cash Stolen C. · · · • 1 A· a. .h . d From Chi Psi ounc·z · ut orzze Santa l..laus on.ubt:; cHeer w orphans at the Choldren!s Home, StlJ,te Street, Schenectady, under the auspices of the WBUC staft. Santa Claus was George Munch. Graham Martin looks on, Vallette was a civ!lian radar tech- nician and worked with the· navy. Hhe is the holder of Westinghouse, Steinmetz and Union scholarships. He has participated in UCRS, AlEE, Mountebanks and-The Con- cordiensis. Cusano served in the infantry during the war. His activities in- clude the Physics So:Ciety and the Newman club. This acicdent follows the familiar pattern. You are driving along the highway with little thought of danger. ea~~e T~~~sr:; ~;~~n:.a~:::e~~. To Run- R a t h s k ell a r of the fraternity reported. Accord- ing to :petectives John Clark and Jere Moynihan of 'the· Schenectady Police Department, some -t:•ne ap• parently familiar with the house entered some time early 'Thursday morning and looted rooms on the first and second floors. Davis is the holder of a Grum- man scholarship. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity dnd has beep, a member· of the Sopho- more Discipline Committee, AIEE, UCRS and the varsity golf team. ... A graduate of Jamaica High School and Dwight Preparatory School, McGlone was a pledge of Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity at Union. On·e Who Lived News Item: - August 1, 1946 . ..4 Union College student, Herbert K. Saxe, 20; of C4nan- · daigua, 'N. Y., was .critictzUy injured last night when hi( ear left the road and rolled ov.er four times on Route 14 near G~_neva, N.Y. State pollee who ittvest{gatqd estimated Saxe was travelin,g ap- proximately 80 miles Pf:r hour at the time of the accident. His in- furies included a compound fracture of the skull and severe lacera- tions of the face and head '. . • The thief or thi~ves · ransacked desk drawers, but took only money. Wat'ches and c•ther valuables were untouched. Members of the fra- ternity reported that $48.50 was tali: en. According to Detectives Moyni- han and Clark, fraternity house robberies have .occurred for the past ten years. The robberies ha;ve. always taken place just before vacations. ·The Phi Gamma Delta house has been robbed several times. The last robbery, at the ·end of summer schoc•i, netted around By JIE:RBERT SAXE three or four Jaours before the ac- The doctor said I was damn cide:!lt. The doctor ca~led it spot a hun(lred dollars. lucky, said I was lucky to be alive amnesia. The robbei:ies have taken place and even more lucky to be in one It was 3i beautiful day, one .of only in houses which use the piece. I rea)ize, now, how lucky I those balmY, sunny days the poets· dormitory system. Detectives said was. t got a ~econd chance. are always writing about. they thought the jobs were done· That's the trouble with most of There was a girl in the c!ir. I by some one who knows the fra- us. We don't know what a treat don't evert remember her IJ.ame · ternity houses well, and prob(!.bly it is to liv.e, to have life. · now. If she had been injured or an atnateur, since such things< as I reme 1 nber almost everything killed, it would have b.een hard to ·watches were not taken. · Worker Burned that happened that day. t can't forget. tell you · exactly what happened (Continued on Page 6) The student council in a special meeting Tuesday nirrht voted to appoint a committee to study the proposed r:th- skellar. ~ · . · Authority for operating a student gathering place in the basement of Old Chapel was given the council by the board of trustees of the college, Male served in the air force. He BE U Heads !~sc~~en in the college band and Steigert is a member of Kappa Fund Dr.l •ve ·Alpha fraternity. His activities in- clude varsity cross country and The trustees have agreed to equip track, AlEE, Physics society, the basement with a second The total amount pledged to the Philomathean society, Student entrance and toilet facilities -on ·Memorial Field Ho·use Drive has Council, Interfraternity Council, the condition that the council as- Ch · d UCRS risen to $11,560.95, campaign chair-. 011 ' an · sup1e full respop,E;il;lility for the operation of a rathskellar. man John Hanna has announced. Westlund is ·a member of Chi Psi- fraternity. Be has been treasurer TJ;wmas C. Elliot ha.J'! been ap- 13eta Eta Upsilon has the highest of his freshman class, a member pointed chairman of the study com- percentage of the quota pledged of the Chemist~y club, on The Coli- mittee, among the fraternity group (101.81 cordiensis, varsity football and The question of w}:let)ler or not per cent). Delta Phi and Theta track teams. beer will be served in the raths- Delta Qhi are in second and third ~~~o~-~~- kellar is still undecided, pending places respectively. interpretation of the trustees' reso- College dormitories have pledged Iution, which contained the ad- over o·ne•fifth of the present total monition that the rathskellar was by subscribing $2,040 to the drive. not to be a \beer clu}J.'' - .. Arthur Agnello, Wildwood dorm HELP Drive Nears Goal ~--o ·chairman was largely responsible Sixty independent veterans have Chapter Installed far the fine showing' the dorms . already joined in the HELP vet- have roade to date, Hanna ·said. eran plan to •bring an ex-enemy Each man contributed on the aver- country vetet·an to Union College The Eta Gamma Chapter of The age $17.43 as compared to. the aver- next year, according to William Alpha Phi Omega natioJ'\al serVice age pledge of $20.51 tnade by fra- Reeder, chairman of the drive. fraternity wa.s formally initiated ternity men. Union's fraternities He expressed the hope that the and installed in a· ceremony in Bale· have contributed $9,520.95. independents will not slaclren their Hose Sunday afternoon. Ofil:ciating George Lowe, chairman of the efforts as the quota of 75 is app- at the ceremonies was Pr-ofessor dorm committees, has expressed .proached for one ex-enemy mali but . . . His con[lition was described as \poor\ by hospital officials last niglzt. Saxe is the son of Rev. and Mrs. RalPh G. Saxe, of Canan- daigua . ) William: Mullan, 46, a resident of Kent D. Shaffer of ·carnegi'e Tech, . cortfidt'mce :in the ability of inde- will continue to join so that pas- Schenectady and an eroploye of. who represertte4 the national ex- · pendents to match the pledge per- sib!y two can be supported by the Union College was burned Thurs• ecutive board and gave the main: centages of other campus groups. independent vets. Reeder made daY; December 9, by a back di'a·ft address. The installing ritual team• Fraternity chairman in the drive; clear the point that students who of flame when he opened a boiler ·from PRI consisted of Prof, Har- K.enneth Whalen, reports 64.53 per· come to Union sponsored by iilde- door on the recently installed col- . old Howe, Sco11t Executive, Clinton c(;'nt of ·fraternity men have already pendents will remain independent 0 Wh . · TrJ: •t d lege steam plant. Rose, and officers of the chapter. pledged during their stay. ne · . o ,., az e · Mullan was taken to the college ~~a~~E ~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~•••~~-~~-~~~~-~ It was late· Sunda;y night. My -;He went on to describe the qar.....- the ·college Physician, Doctor .1\lex- 111 wife was away from. home for a ¢y car!-and the victim~my .son! ander Arony, f.c.r superficial face.·· . MAY YOUR CHRISTMAS BE MERRY AND, ABOVE ALL, MAY THE NEW YEAR )J 11 d t d 1 t i burns and second degree. burps on Ill w~ -earne · :;es an. · was s. ay.ng 1 thought I was calm but when I the right arm !l.nd leg. He was de• I ·~ ynth the chtldr~n·. I was tl)mktl:lg got a neighpor to drive me, . we tained overnight at the infirmary ·~ LIVE UP TO YOUR HOPES AND EXPECTATIONS. . • tt was about time to go. . to bed found we didn't know the hospital. . an· d returned ·to his home at 1884 ~ when the doorbell interrupted me. · . · \'IE . . · A ··stril.nger stood oittsit;le.' Won1linue<f, ort Page. 6) .. Amsterdam Aven1.1~ the next day. ~~~~~~~~~~~~L~~!illll!~~~~~~~~~~~~-~-~~ ..

<!tnntnr Rabbino Gives Report St R 1 .Hall St d • hub of student social life . egu us , . An rews, armed forces. I didn't notice any ate the·the .a'ay. They are alwa_ys December 10, 1948 queues during d It Is Rumored By R. A. NAVIAS ill ember Assocla ted Col- legiate Press and distri- butor or the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C: Pub- llshed every Friday< of the school year. Editorial Officei Washburn HaU, Union Co lege. PUb- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St .. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as ·sec- ond Class Mall Matter, sub•criptlon lOc a copy; $3 year : delivered any- where in the United States. Hello, Everybody: B · t 1 tilled· with students earnestly Is- It was reported by many sources .this week that I liz · · rls 0 in common with many . ·ything from Com- letters of recommendation for medical .<Jchool had rea . e Wlth some alarm that British cities, supports a Reper- ~us::ning teove;•Butto~s and Bows.\ it is almost Christmas and that tory Theater; this· company Is con- mun sm · th student not been sent out. Much nasty comment was heard there are only a few days ·left for sidered second only to the Old Vic The elections for · e • · . . .from hopeful sen;ior pre-medical students about how me to wish you all a Merry Christ- in London. It is interesting· to note Representative Council are held Jf the delay in sending out the necessary lette!·s of mas and a very Happy New Year .. that even St. Andrews, a town of a most unusual way-the can - recommendation would nullify their chances of get- As for my stay in the British about 7;opo, also has a per):llanent dates are all heckled. The un- ting into medical school. Some students felt that Isles so far, I would divide my group. fortunate nomiMe stands 0111 the they had no chance of getting into certain medical experiences into two parts: Using Bristol as a ·base, Tony and platform and is subjected to quE)s~ schools this year, since, they claimed, these scho-ols. 1. ENGLAND - or, I Became I took sho·rt jaunts to Wells, Bath tions hurled at him \from 11 11 parts George T. Oriel> Editor had already filled their quotas. ·an Alien. (remember The Rivals, Bill?) of the assembly. As migh~ be ex- . In an interview with Professor Leonard B. Clarlt, The last night on board the Chedda.r (the cheese place), Oxford pected many of the questions are . . • good idea of .Tames Murray Herbert Saxe A.ctlng Managing Editor Acting News Editor A.lbert (',o~bo and James Baar chairman pre-medical committee, he said that the Queen Elizabeth was most depres- and Stratford r1d1culous, but · · · a . Assoriate Editors .Tames Etting-er Rubert Heinemann . A.ctlng Sports Editor Picture Editor Willla.m McGarry and Samuel Rose.oe Acting Feature Edito~s \· Lam bert Ginsberg Franris !\[ eel1an Business Manager Circulation Manager It's Your Council preparation and writing letters of recommendation sing-the floating palace had sud- Stratford-on-Avon has become the man's views on pertment topics for medical school applicants this year presented a denly beCOme a floating morgue. one of England's leading industries, can be gained. Politically 1 should three-fold problem. The actual work on letters .of (Let me say that the floating pala- but despite its attempt to be \ye say that St. Andrians are more recommendation was not started until the mid-term tial parts are cunningly reserved olde\ it retains a great bit of active than those in the Stat~s. marks we're available. Professor Clark went on to for the first and second class pas- charm. Many of its buildings are There is an open and extremely · say that the instructors of each student for the sengers-Tourist is just what you'd very old and have been preserved. voca.J Communist Society here, and past two terms were consulted by questionnaire. He · expect.) Due to poor connections in the spirit of Shakespeare. there a~e other groups to cov:er all \pointed out that some students had not been prompt with the high tide at Southampton.,. Sha:kespeare's home Is now a tastes. Recently, a mass meeting of in turning in lists of their instructors. Lists of col- the boat was late in arriving and museum ... The Memorial Theater the students passed a vote of N? lege and other activities were not in all cases we had to spend one night on is modern and probably one of the Confidence in the Student Counml promptly supplied by students. board. The next morning the boat most perfect theaters in the world because it was felt that the Coun- Professor Clark also stated that there are 64 rang with joyous cries of \Don't from the point of view of equip- cil had not adequately represent~d students sending out over 600 applications, and that :target to write\ from people who ment. It is suited' to the produc- the students in regard to the rats- the pure mechanical process of this task has com- only vaguely remembered the ones .tion of Shakespearean plays al- irtg of the Governtnent gr!mts. 'rhe pletely swamped the secretarial staff, even with they were addressing. Then came· though they do others. Tony and I Council is under no constitutional additior..al help. He further said that he felt no a .merry scrimmage to be the first plan to .go back in the l)pring to obligation to resign and have net students we.re being handic1J,pped by lack of' letters to land, closely followed by the see the entire Shakespeare Festi- done so as yet, but it is expected of recommendation, and that schools had not filled tangle. with the Customs Authority. val· . that there will be an another elec- The student council has evoked criticism from the student body this week with its action on the chapel situation and on the mid-winter ball. It is pleasing to observe some students finally rising from their leth- argy; too many have been leeches for too long. We can't help feeling, however, that the students who attack the council action in letters to the editor this week have com- plained too late with too little to offer. It is not the council's fault that the students don't elect their representatives more judiciously and it is certainly not the council's fault that they cannot milk reaction out of the students on a given issue until there is something to tear apart. The council will not improve through spon- taneous attacks upon action which it takes. The persons who are interested in specific proposals, instead of complaining, should get to know the machinations of their student government and see to it that their opinion is expressed in council meetings through their representatives. As long as student voices are heard only on the rebound the council will continue to vote legislation into the wind. The Reader Writes Letters to the editor mtist be submitted by noon of the Wednesday before pUblication. They must be typed and do\].ble spaced. No anonymous letters will be accepted, although publication. of names will be w.ithheld upon request, ' A carto•n of Chesterfield cigarettes has been awarded to Robert V. Thurston and Vincent J. Ryan for their Jetter to the editor which appears on this page. A carton of Chesterfields will be awarded each month for the letter which, in the opinion the editor, is judged to be the best. Dear Sir: It is evident that that illustrious body know as the Student Council has decided to cast off its cloak of representative government under which it mas- querades as the voice of the student. What its future political form will be {)nly time can tell, but its re- cent action in regard to the mid-term prom indicates a trend toward autocratic paternalism. You ask the child ( ?) what it wants and give it the opposite. In the recent poll, apparently deemed as fallible as Gallup and Roper by the local Reichstag, an over- whelming majority voted for an informal prom to throw off the chains which bind us to a winter of social hibernation at Union. Ah, but Papa says, \No give me my slippers and a nice warm fire, my shoulders are over-burdened with the labors of government!\ May we be so bold to suggest that the Student Council: 1. Hold an informal dance on Friday night with minimum decorations. 2. If it is deemed impossible to hire Art Agnello, obtain a low cost local orchestra. There is no need in paying fifteen hundred dollars for an orchestra that for some reason or other isn't danceable any- way. 3. Instead of wasting money by printing referen- dums the results of which .are contemptuously ignored, use that money to buy a cup as an award to the fraternity that holds the most novel dance on Satur<Iay night. WILLIAM C. VAN OST, WILLIAM S. WARNER, C. GRAHAM MARTIN, STUART C. BEYERL. To the Members of the Student Council: I would like to bring to your attention how you have recently failed in your job in; the opinion of a section of the student body. I believe that your bungling in your attempt to improve the mechanics of the chapel program should receive a few words of criticism. In your attempt to do what you con- sider good or helpful, you have neglected considera- tion of how the student body would react to your decrees. A large section of the student body sug- gests that in the future you should try to represent it and give adequate reasons for your rulings, especi- ally when they are contrary to the opinion voiced by the majority of the stdent body. Please do not consider us, as is done in some totalitarian countries, as people without feeling, or intellectual ability, or as automatons who react blindly to regimentation. There are-and I hope this has been noted by others classes at this time. In conclusion, Professor Clarlr Finally - England and the start On to Scotland and Par.t Two .. '· tion next term. (St. Andrews works said he thought all letters of recommendation would ·of a ·most enjoyable experience. The whole character of the on a three-term system, one of have been completed by Wednesday, December 15. Tony met me at the dock and countryside was far different from which has just finished. took me to his home in Bristol. anything I had seen in England, ... watching the American alec- The trip convinced me that I was· but that perhaps was only the Uon returns as keenly as the !>eo- in a foreign country-not only was morning mist. ple from the States. Judging from the train Itself typically British St. Andrews by the Sea is an those I spoke to and the ed-itorials For Your Information Registration for make-up tests to be given on Monday-Tuesday, January 10-11, must be completed a.t the office of the registrar before five o'cloclr Wednesday, January 5. Students must obtain at the registrar's office a slip to be signed by the instructor· giving. the course and return the slip to the office of the registrar for the dean's signature. Students are required to pay a registration !ee of one dollar unless they present an excuse for illness from Dr. Arony or were absent due to an authorized activity. Two lines were left out of the final examination schedule which appeared in last week's issue of The Concordiensis. The following examinations will be held Tuesday, Jan. 25, at 1:30 p.m., in addition to the tests correctly listed: Social Studies 50a, histc•ry 27a, and government .42a. Students desiring dormitory rooms for the Febru- ary-June 1949 term are requested to make reserva- tions with Miss Fleming at the comptroller's office by tomorrow. Present dormitory residents have been sent reser- vation forms. Ali other students can obtain the form at the comptroller's office. Students will be notified of their assignment after Christmas vacation. -some of us who have a sense of decency, some consideration for our fellow man, and an ability to understand problems and solve them when their solutions are offered on a rational basis. I ho'Pe you'll not feel that all your efforts in the past are not appreciated and I submit this censure with the hope of getting something done. I offer the following points fo-r that purpose. 1. The students will invariably react to any authoritarian decree in a negative fashion and\ thus it is suggested that if improvements are wanted a more successful approach might be a rational one with an appeal for cooperation rather than dicta- torial rlings. · 2. The vital problem is the quality of some of the chapel programs which could· stand improve- ment. It is hoped that those concerned with the programs will tell us what is being done about this matter. 3. Have the choir In the chapel only when they are to participate in the program. 4. There is needed some event to bring to the attention of the audience the fact that the program has begun and although the singing of a sc·ng ac- complishes this there are other methods to do this. 5. Fot• the purpose of eliminating unnecessary noise, for appearance, and to comply with fire regula- tions it would be appreciated if the audience would not stand in the rear -of the chapel. 6. The proctors should be commended for the fine job they have done, especially their closing of the doors without the aid of a bell. 7. Some individuals will continue to behave in a manner which is different from those w.llose be- havior is based on custom a:hd consideration for one's fellow man. The changing of this aberrant behavior can be best accomplished by creating in them a sense of consideration for -o-thers, by social censure and by example. ARTHUR M. COVELL (small compartments filled with ancient town, filled with tradition, in the papers, !'would say that the silent people), but there were fleet- students and golf. The first view I English were surprised and pleased ing glimpses of thatched: roofs, had was of the Chapel tower . . . at the result. Under a Labour gov- Salisbury Cathedral ... one of the quite a landmark and .presides with ernment herself, England seemed most striking features of the Eng- dignity over the area. Scattered to sympathize with and understand !ish countryside was the tremen- throughout St. Andrews are crosses the leftward swing of the States. dous amount of chimney pots on marking the spots on. which mar- I think they admire the n;ew \Give- every roof! tyrs died. Tradition has it that if em-hell, Harry\ and feel that -a Bristol is one of the largest cities a student steps on these crosses he contination of a )iberal policy in in England and is heavily indus\ will flunk his exa;ms!! the States will mean increased ma- trialized, the most important pro- The term. started in a casual terial and spirital aid for Europe. ducts being candy and cigarettes way: classes officially began on Certainly they like Truma)l as a (neither one of which is easily ob- October 4t)l, but neithet• the pro- person more than theY' do Dewey. tainable, even in Bristol.) It is a fessors nor· the students turned up. One term ·iS not enough time to thriving seaport ... , I arrived in until a week later . . . In 1 days know St. Andrews, and I have time for the Industrial Exhibition, gone by tpe preacher used to come therefore tried to limit my descrip- an impressive sight even for an to the University by sea and met tion of it to those parts which I American tourist used to things • by the students. This custom has do not think will change. I am mechanical. The Exhibition cov- been kept up although the age of looking forward to next term and ered everything from canned foods nautical ministers has ended. a deeper and more complete un- to farm implements; there was Gowns are worn to classes and all derstanding of this wond'erful uni- even a tent devoted to the RAF school functions of a political na- varsity on the sea. and dedicated· to the proposition ture-in fact a student cannot Once again, Merry Christmas and that the best life for an \eager speak at a mass meeting unless Happy :N\ew Year to all. and ambitious young man with an he is wearing a gown. See you next year, eye to the future\ was in the The innumerable. coffee shops MITCH RABBINO Sang -we Noel By Graham Martin By Graham Martin to that. It was a delightful service· had already been sounded-and Even the Angels are reported to the glee club was in good voice: most beautifully too-by the choir. have sung on Christmas Day. True Dr. Elmer Tt\dmarsh \t\n good' H owever, we woke up again when it is that we can't be certain of this hands and feet\ and we-well we· they started on their second set but how pleasant to think they did! just sat back and listened. and enjoyed every minute of it oroug ly. Both Fred Conklin and For who ever heard of Christmas Admittedly tht\ngs took a wht'le th h without carols?· All of which prob- to warm up ... the process1 · 0 n w· St h bl 1 m one were rig t on fot'm, and a Y exp ains the outburst of so.unded anything but \J'oyful .and th h · h 1 t' •t e c mr . . . save for a slight c ora ac lVI Y on the Campus last trm~phant\; the .opening organ roughness in the bass section was Sunday. We did have a few pre- muslC was too impressionistic to nicely balanced for solo and full monitions of course: the wire c. om bat thn depress 1 \ng weather, and h 1 · t . . ~ c ora p1eces. We allow ourselves s rmgmg of Bob's Boys during the 1t seemed to us that more fire and t d . It one commen on the echo-a re- precee mg wee ; the snatches of punch in the \Carol of Chr·st- 1 d\ 1 f b cor mg would have preserved the caro s rom the li rary loud speak- mas Presents\ would have made ·11 · th h b\ 1 US!On more effectively. ers; e a 1t glee club singers had the Festive Spirit feel more at o•--- of breaking forth in song every home; as it was he .crept on to th'e FOR THE RECORD now and then; glimpses of a black- scene al t t' robed figures procession ·around Me- · mos unno !Ced; but by the Two Union College students have bme the choir had finished \.Sing b moria! Chapel. All these pointed to Wil Noel\ he was quite definitely een given babies for Christmas by something, and on Sunday we around. their wives. found out just what. No Wine, No Then Dr. Tidmarsh put him and A son was born Wednesday Women, but lots and lots of Song. ,us, . to sleep again with his ~rgan morning to Mr. and Mrs. Raymond We didn't make the 11 o'clock ;e 01 tal. Not· that we didn't enjoy Johnson of 6 Dutchmen's ·village. service despite good intentions,. but 1 t, but surely he could have made Mr. and Mrs. Ivan McDonald of by 4 p.m. we were in chapel all set better choices? It . was all so 331 Myrtle Avenue, Albany,. also and ready to go ... WRUC saw dreamy and formless. That note ~:;~ a baby boy, bon~. last Satur- Seats for 'Hamlet' A block of seats has been re- served for the use of Union Col- lege students and their dates for the perfformance of Lau- rence Oliver's moi:ioli picture production of Hamlet. Students must make reservations as soon as possible in the Activities of- fice in Washburn Hall for the prei§.entat!on to oo given Wed- nesday January 5, 1949 at the Colonial Theater in Albany. The feature will begin at 5:30 p.m. Please. No Door Cre.pe! Dear Editor: Don't you think that its about time The don- cordiensis ceased malting the student council the brunt of its \humor\? How can we Ieook forward to' the day we will attain self-government on this campus if you continue to publish satirical articles about the actions of the •student council on t,he front page under the guise of being news stories. Call to mind the forward steps the student ccouncil has taken since its reactivation aftet' the late global conflict, in which, incidentally, it backed the forces of democracy to the hilt. To mention a few, its fine arrangement of the campus parking situa- tion, its tactful handling of the paint feud with RPI, its straight forward, cool, far-seeing action in the publications cut-system. A bus will be chartered for . the convenience of those with- out transportation at 70 cents round trip per individual. Tickets for the film are $1.00 at reduced price for students. The English department and the Mountilbanks are sponsoring the ticket sale on campus. . . We are flower specialists. We take great pnde and enj.oyment in preparing beautiful flo~al arrangements and cor·sages, and in deco- ratmg the homes of Schenectady with Christmas wreaths and holly. But pl•ease, no door crepe! Each year m~re than twice as many acci- dents . occur durmg the Christmas vacation than m any other two-week period. Snow- clogged, ice-covered roads are a hazard to ev•e.n the most careful drive-r. Reviewing their past record, do you expect us, for whom the members of this group speak, to believe that they would set forth such a trival solu- tion to the chapel conduct situation? Your page one \fantasy\, of highly improbable student co•uncil resolutions, was in extremely bad taste. VINCE RYAN,_ VANCE THURSTON, (President and Vice President of the 12 o'clock Stairway Poker Club) Those with available cars contact Jackson Davis at the Mountebanks. Glee Club With its Christmas Program completed the Glee Club has started working on the music for its spring concert tour. Directly after the Christmas vacation re- hearsals will be held foul.'\ times a week according to Gordon Wood- cock. All men interested in g.o-tn,g on the trips should attend as many · of these rehearsals as possible: Tuesday evenings, 7:00; Wednes- days, noon; Friday afternoons, 4:30; Sunday mornings, 9:00. This year celebrate Christmas ch;eerfully and safely. You may thus celeb t h. Ch . ra e anot er r1stme~s next year. The GALLO Florists 96 J~y Street Phone 6·4487 \ I!;

~48 life vays dis- 'om- ~ws.\ den,t .din mdi- un- the 1ues- .)arts ~ ex- 1 are m of opics lOU!d mote :at(ls. ,in ely , and ~r all ng of ,f No mncil ~oup.­ ented rais- .. ',['he tiona! e not 1ected elea- works ae of ' elec- ~ :treo- from :orials at the leased r gov- eemed rstand :nates. \Give- hat -a icy in ld ma- :urope. as a )ewey. ime to have escrip- hich I I am m and te un- ul uni- .as and !INO rartin d-and l choir. 1 when nd set of it lin and ·m,and slight on was nd full Lrselves -a re- red the ts have :mas by lnesday tymond Village. nald of .y,. also Satur- eat ·iful co- n as pel cci- ~ion ow- to ~ully •her 1487 \ t ! FRIPAY. DECEM~ER ::17~ • ..:.19~4:8'\\!'- _______ ....,.... _______ __;_ ___ .-.......;. __ __;,;___._...__.._..,------------==--=------ Agnello Talent Comes Naturally . Lighting Apparatus Too Dark It's Not Just a Pipe Dream Sub-Frosli Weekend European· Work Plan Ann·ounced GUERRA~S PHARMACY Fquntain Prescriptions Sundries 600 Union St. Cor. Bllrrett St. A Sweetheart Pin is a Treasured Xmas Gift. Delight your Best Giri with a beautiful created gift or m:inia- Sweethead Pin, CARL SORENSEN Murray Ave'., Waterford, N.Y. Telephone Waterford 644 L. G. Balfour Co. For Car Troubles See a UNI()N MAN William H. Plath 60 I Union Street AUTO SERVICE s·uccess 7,200 years of college I I I and stHI learning T HE .Bell TeleP,ho. ne Laboratories is· known as a leader in communications engineering. On its staff are 1,62? engineers and scientists with college degrees. Among them they. have 7,200 years of college train- ing ... ~nd they are still learning. They study many things. How to speed your voice across the street or around the world. How to keep your voice natural in tone and volume. How to make central of- fice equipment capable of switching your call even faster. How to produce in labora- tories the materials which are hard to get in their natural form-quartz, for instance. How to conserve the scarce metals which go into wire and cable, by making one cir- cuit carry many conversations. From such studies they learn how to make your service b-etter and better, and keep its cost low. BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

. ' I FRID~Y. DECEMBER 17, 1948 4 Tankmen Race Hamilton Saturday ·swimmers Ready Fo·r Stiff <Competiti~on in Test Aw·ay ·LOOSE ENDSI. by 1.!:::::=::: Herb Saxe ==~I \We may m<~ol•e mistakes, but the spil'it to win wUI be strong and it will be there.\ That was the statement Pete Nistad made last Wednesday noon in another of the athletic chapels designed to intro- duce college ath- letes to the stu- t body. Inci- dentally, these chapel programs at·e now run by e Block \U\ Society and are far b e t t e r run and far more in- teresting t h an similar programs earlier this year. But back to Pete Nistad, the poor man's Shakespeare. M~Laughry to Be j Sk1 Team Mentor i John McLaughry, coach of the outstanding 1948 Garnet football team, issued his fil'st call for ski team candidates this week as he took over the reigns of the squad. I Six veterans will return to form a nucleus for the skiers. These will 1 be Captain-elect George Best of I Scotia, who starred on the grid- iron in the Fall, Dan Robertson of White Plains, John Keehan of Schenectady, Bob Alexander of North Creek, John Slack of Specu- lator, and Dick Jesser of Hacken- sack, N. J. Four competitive meets have been scheduled for the skimen. These are The St. Lawrence Winter Carnival Feb. 4-5, The Cornell In- tercollegiate Meet Feb. 11-12, The Syracuse Invitation Meet Feb. 18-19, and the Old Forge Carnival Feb. 25-26. Garnet Tutors Pictured above are basketball coach Pete Nistad, left who will be seeking his third victory tonight, and Swim Coach R3y MUllane, right, who will be looking for number two tomorrow. Seeking their second straight victory, Coach Ray Mullane's strong U:n,ion College swimming squad expects to ru~ up ag;:tinst some stiff competition when they tackle Hamilton College at Clinton tomorrow. Swim Novices in Ttaining for Debut. Coach R.ay MulLane has been working with thir.teen freshmen for the last month who will com- .prise the frosh swimming squad, and three meets have ·been sche- ·duled for the neophyte mermen. Included in the group are four sprinters, four distance men, three · breaststrokers, two backstrokers, and one diver. The four sprinters · ·are Roger Hancher, Bill Weaver, Jim Marcus, and Jerry Roberts. Handling the distances are John ' Dillingham, John Duffy, Frank Morgan, and George Carter. The The Dutchmen and the Contin~ entals split two meets last year with each team winning at }:lome. Hamilton triumphed 39·36 while Union followed with a 42-33 vic- tory. ·Coach Mullane, opUmistlc over his team chances of holding their own with anyone, will send an ever improving squad into ac- tion tomorrow. improve in Practice . Speaking to the student body in h1s own informal, inimitable man- ner the basketball mentor spoke favorably of season prospects. In the main, NJstad stressed the ex- cellent spirit being displayed by the team members. Union Partial Lacrosse Victory · breaststrokers are Gerry Geismar, C h V . t St k\ w· Mic Branson, and Ralph Prusak. oac . IC or . arzens ·f-' InS The backstroking duo consists of ff \CI u· G II Steve Steele, and Roger Hancher .. E t t Danny Shea is the lone diver. Inspired by record breaking per- formances by breaststroker and co-captain Joe Tafel and diver Dick Johnson in the inaugut~l meet against B.P.I., four men turned in impressive performances in an intra-squad practice meet last Saturday. ;Bob Diamond was unofficially clocked two seconds under Tafel's 200 yard breaststroke mark. Backstroker :ban Mead, John Isbister in the 220 yard free style; and former captain Jim Courter in the \44{) yard free style also impressed Mullane. tn or 5 Q ean p arne The first scheduled meet is with the R.P.I. freshmen on March 5. Wednesday night the quintet went out and against a strong Williams team showed Union fans just what this spirit was. Trailing at the half by a 33-17 tally, the Dutchmen came back in the second stanza. pressed the Ephmen hotly, displayed a red hot brand of ball, and just missed shat- tering .the P~rple pipe dreams by two slim pomts. Ironically, these two points could have been made ft·om the foul line. Jim Pemrick played a sparkling game, to spark the Garnet offense. Both Garnet losses this season have been by slim margins, which further strengthen Nistad's faith in his team's spirit. Never out of the game for one minute, the Garnet quintet has played inspired ball, re- gardless of the score. Win, lose or draw, the courtmen have been scrapping. It is easy to support a winning team. No one is ashamed to admit backing a team that can· turn in a 7-1 season as did the football team. But how few and how scattered are the fans when the going is rough. Just when a team needs all the support that it can use there are no fans. Right now the Dutchmen are holding their .own on the basket- ball court with a .500 average. There are a lot of games ahead for the hoopsters. A good many of these are going to be against stiff competition and the Dutchmen are going to lose an occasional con- test. When the team does have a home game lets turn out and show our support. Let's match team spil'it with spectator spirit. HOFFMAN SKATE LAND • SKATE EVERY EVENING Sat. & Sun. Afternoon 2-5 P.M. • SKATE DANCING CLASS Mon. & Wed. 6:15-7:45 P. M, For the Finest IN MEN'S CLOTHING CHAS. HOLTZMAN &SON Z59 STATE STREET FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 191 J ~~J1.~\~~ Victor Starzenski, veteran Union ~-----------­ College lacrosse coach, and the man who introduced the sport here 45 years ago, partially won his strong- ly waged battle to eliminate un- necessary roughness from the game last week-end when the United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse As- sociation delegates, meeting at their 66th annual gathering at the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York, voted for stricter enforcement of the rules as a t•esult of a resolution presented by the Garnet coach. Slashing to be Eliminated The resolution requested the as- sociation \to instruct its officials to intet·pret and enforce the rules stringently with particular empha- sis on the rules against slashing.\ Starzenslti has been fighting for many months to have the sport re- turn to \a fast moving game with light equipment,\ and has written many letters and at·ticles. According to facts gathered by the Garnet coach, 4.75 lbs. or almost twice as much has been added to the weight of Lacrosse equipment since 1928, and the game has gradually deteriorated from a skillful and \gentleman's\ sport to one of \legalized mayhem.\ Two years ago it was reported that the accident liaoi!ity insurance pre- mium rate for 1acrosse was 50% higher than for football. Last sea- son, at Union, in spite of the fact that the players wore the most expensive \protective equipment,\ Vic Starzenski one man received a brain concus- sion and two men lost teeth. This is a greater casualty than was ex- perienced during the entire four years from 1922-1926 when lacrosse ;nas introduced at Union, according to Starzenski. U. S. ARMY SKIES Laminated Steel Edges 7 Foot Length Army Surplus SKI CLIMBERS 7 Foot Mohair DOWN & FEATHER SLEEPING BAGS New Single Bag-Extra Long Snap Fastened Front .......... $12.,5 U.S. Army Surplus-NOT .. Army Styfeu GOLD STOCK'S 121 N. BROADWAY FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 1111 IARRETT STREIT LANG~ & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS SCHENECTADY Holiday Greetings TO THE STUDENTS AND FACULTY OF UNION COLLEGE FROM WGY Laundry 520 Union Street ~ 166 Jay Street Jl Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET • • Following this will be contests with · Introduced Game at Other Colleges the A.A.U. champs on March 12 and with the Troy \Y\ on March Besides being the man who 19. Mullane is trying to arrange started lacrosse at Union, Starzen- meets with Albany Academy, New ski also introduced the game at York Military Academy, and the Rensselaer Poly and at the Uni- Pittsfield Boys Club. versity of New Mexico, where he Mullane is h()peful that at least t·aught the old Indian game to the several of the frosh will be valuable Indians there. · additions to the v·arsity squad SOME TIMELY ADVICE The Pendulum is tic:kin9 away the last few hours of 1948. Yet during this time congested roads and driv· ing hazards combine to take their greatest toll of human lives. 1Jtis is the· time to be' safe. . . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • Join us in wishin9 for a happy and prosperous New Year. Drive carefully now! Jay Jewelry Co. Corner ~tate and Center Streets Winners in the 1 Brooldyn Poly meet besides Tafel and Johnson included co-captain Mike' Samal, 50 and 100 yard sprints, Courter, 220 yard free style, Isbister, 440 yard free style, and Frank Rapant in the 150 yard backstroke. Strong Colgate Next On January 8, Colgate Univer- stiy will provide opposition for . the Garnet in Foote Memorial Pool after a vacation layoff. This should be one of the toughest op- ponents the natators will meet all season. A surveyal of the ·remainder of the sched,ule shows Rochester the only other team to be met in Janu- ary. The meet is scheduled for January 15 at Rochester. Mullane will take his squad to New York oh February 4 to meet Fordham University. Three home meets round out February. Rochester comes here on the 12th, Hamllton on the 18th and Trinity on the 26th. R.P.I. will be met on March 5 at Troy in the final duru meet of the year. The Garnet will com- pete in the Adirondack A.A.U. Championship meet on March 12 to conclude the season. CAREERS AT GENERAL ELECTRIC General Electric Is not one business, but an organization of many businesses' olfering opportunities in virtually all the professions. Here ·three G·E men brief the career- possibilities which the company olfers to the student of advertisinq, the physicist, and the accountant. FOR A FUTURE IN- ADVERTISING D. S. Mix (Yale), Manager of Personnel & Training Programs, Advertising & Publicity Dept.: Besides the A & P D~partment in Sche· nectad~ th.ere are 8 G-E operating departltlents, each w1th 1ts own advertising sta:ff. Our Training Program inc~udes ':,ork and ~tudy he~e, plus a year on rotating asstgnments with these staffs. PHYSICIST August Binder (Carnegie Tech), of the Physics Program: As students in this Program, we've cha~ged a~sign~ents every few months, trying out tnteresttng ltnes of work, and have chosen per- manen~ positions ranging from research to sales. My asstgnments: nuclear instrumentation, cathode ray research, fluorescent lamp development. . TRAVELING AUDITOR E. ~· Murray: (Princeton), Chief Travelin Audttor: After our business ad d l'b 1 g d . .~ ~~~~ gra uates fiptsh their G-E t . . . f h rammg, we ass1gn many o t em as traveling auditors M . . coordinate their activities and t . y JOb lS to get the broadest possible exp ~Y to see .that they for top accounting and fi ~rltenc~ ?tttng them , nanc1a poslttons. for further information about o BUSINESS CAREER with Gene 1 El • • · S , J · ra ecfrrc 1 wrile Bu&ltJ T •• cnenecta y-a career ·In TECHNICAL FIELDS write Tech • I p •ss rmnmg Course, GENERAL .• E·~E~~~';''\\\\''~' ,

, ne•s up lton ntin~ year 10rne. while vic- nistic •!ding send .o ac- ~ per- and diver 1gural men Lances meet i was lCOnds· stroke Mead, d free Jim style Poly Jhnson Sarna!, ourter, ~r, 440 ~apant Jniver- m for .me rial This est op- Leet all tder .of ter the 1 Janu- .ed for 1IuUane \York >rdham meets •Chester amilton on the [arch 5 neet of ll com- A.A.U. 1rch 12 Ill FRIDAY, DECEMBER 'l1a 1948 5 D·utchman,. Tr8ve:l to Cagers Meet. West Point for St. · · Lawrence Tonight; Army Test Tomorro·w ~~--~~~~~~--------~----------~~--~------~----------~--~-----~------~~-------------~ Intramural Standings ·Horne Debut BasketbaUers D·own B. P. 1.; Lose_to Williams by 57-55 -INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL. Beta EU!, .. Jpsilon J;>hi Gamma Delta Psi Upsilon 2 2 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 1 3 3 National Lea~ue Alpha Delta Phi Chi Psi Delta Phi Bl!!-ck Fleet Dubs Kappa Alpha Kappa Sigma Snerzigs A.S.C.E. Blue Eagles Won 3 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 American League Phi Delta Theta 3 Theta Delta Chi 3 Beta Theta Pi Z Nite ·Owl's 2. Ramblers 1 Delta Upsilon 1 Jolly Boys 1 Sigma Chi 1 Phi Sigma Kappa 0 Phi Sigma Delta 0 United League Kappa Nu 3 Calverts 3 'dl( in+o LOst 0 0 0 1 1 2 2 2 3 3 0 0 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 0 0 Chrrs+mas Vaea+ion I •. . Go by train and make sure of A full-tfme vacation. You'll have more time at home with your family and friends when you trave1 in the dependable, all- weather comfort of modern coaches or sleeping cars. See· your railroad ticket agent to- . day ... FOR SURE! MANY J.IAPPY RE.TlJRNS ~-a. saving J Ask your home town ticket, agent about \College Special\ round-trips. Theyenableyou to take advantage of available round-trip fares With an extra long tim-e limit •.. and 10-day sUI>p-over privileges in both di- rections! Get a \College Special\ when yC>tt come back after Christmas. Then use it to go home for Spring Vacation. Your home town ticket agent will have these special tickets for 13ale to teachers and students from De- cember 25 to January 16. For a Time and Money-Saving Trip Go by train IT'S CONVENIENT- COMFORTABLE-SAFE a·a E-RIC A-N .RAILROADS Delta Chi Sjgma Phi Beachcombers Ruggles INTRAMURAL VOLLEYBALL Western I..eague Delta Phi Sigma Chi Phi Gamma Delta Delta· Upsilc;m Kappa Nu Rummies Phi Delta Theta Won 2 2 1 (} 0 0 0 Eastern League Calverts 2 Phi Sigma Delta 1 Alpha Delta Phi 1· Chi Psi 1 ~eta Theta Pi 0 Kappa Sigma (,) Southern LeagUe Delta Chi 2 Theta Delta Chi 2 Kappa Alpha 1 Psi Upsilon 0 Phi Sigma Kappa o Sigma Phi 0 Lost· 0 ·0 0 1 1 1 2 0 0 1 1 1 2 0 0 0 1 2 2 Freshman Hoopsters , Play Nine Game Slate 37 men answered Coach Pete Nis- tad's first call for Freshman bas- The Union College basketball team takes on two op- . ponents this week-end after beating Brooklyn Poly 55-41 . last Saturday night and losing to Williams on Wednesday by a score of 57-55. The Garnet five plays St. Lawrence in the Alumni Gym at 8:00 tonight, and travels to West Point to play Army tomorrow afternoon.· St. Lawrence Unbeaten 0-------------------------- The St. Lawrence team goes into men faced a very tall Brookiyn this game with a 2 and 0 record Poly team, but by sh·eer scrappi- having beaten McGill 66-42 and ness the Garnet took the lead at Hartwick 61-31. They will be met the start and never relinquished by a Union team which will be it. Jim Pemrick and Tim Shea re·d looking ,for its third win against the Union scoring with fourteen two losses. The Larries are a high points each, followed by Dick scoring outfit with the same team Speidel and Cookie Sherwin with t)J.ey had last year, having lost no nine -and eight points respectively. men through graduation. Ron Bob Finkernagel paced Brooklyn Burkman, coach of the St. Law- Poly with 19 points. renee team, is pinning most of nis , hopes on Bill O'Rourke, who led Lose to Williams the team in scoring for two cam- Wednesday night at Williams- .paigns, scoring 236 points last sea- town, Union went into the game son, and John Moro, lanky center, as an underdog and at half time who collected 206 points for the were on the short end Of a 33-17 season. It will ·be the twenty-sixth score. However, the Garnet made meeting of the two teams in a a spirited drive in the second half ' rivalry which started in 1907. The to come within two points of Wil- record is even at thirteen games Iiams at the final whistle. Pemrick, apiece, St. Lawrence winning last in scoring eleven points, upped his year 47-31. total for the four games this sea.- ~rnet Holds Edge in Army Series son to 45 points. Kaznowski and Tomorrow in playing the u. s. <Co;ntinued on Page 6) Military Academy at West Point, Union will be meeting. the Cadets Cleaners and Dyers BaU's Shoe . · ketball candidates last week, and .practice sessions were begun in praparetion for a nine. game sched- ule beginning Feb. 5 against Ham- ilton at Clinton. Photo by Wood ruff The Ganlet's Tim Shea, 20, stretches out his 6' 6\ to outjump Haun ·of Brooklyn Polyv in Union's home debut last Saturday in Alumni Gym. for the first time since 1927. In the seventeen games played since 1910 Union has won 10 to Army's 7. Army coach John W. Mauer will · have the same starting five as last year, when the team won eight games and lost nine. Although the team is said to have improved, Mauer has not expressed much Inc:. Rebuilders 633 State St. 204 Union St. Coach Nistad has been watching hJs charges closely, and is intent on cutting down the squad so that he can concentrete on play. The schedule is as follows: Feb. 5-Hamilton at Clinton. Feb. 8-St-ate College at Albany. Feb. !~Colgate at Hamilton. Feb. 16-R.P.I. at Troy. Feb. 19-Colgate at hOme. Feb. 23--State College at home. Feb. 26-Hamiltol). at home. Mar. 2-R.P.I. at home. Mar. 5-Trinity. at Hartford. ---o---- Change for Next Term . One section of the public speak- ing oourse 13B will be devoted to voice -and diction. In this section problems. of voice, delivery, arti- · culation, breathing, and special voice problems will be .taken up. It will be largely a laboratory course designed to help the individual stu- dent improve his vocal mechanism. speaking, first section, is not a necessary requisite. Those inter- ested should consult with their ad- visors, A new address- The same service- reliable and competent Call 3-67.00 • Union Cleaners Prompt Delivery Service This section will meet at 2:30 p.in. Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. There are st!ll openings .in it. fol' interested students. Public. ;.;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X•lU.Y l!'l'l'TING H5 STATE BT.-81na6 Iiiii ... GOOD FOOD? Try Elmer's Restaurant 149 Barrett St. Where Union Men Are Always Welcome GAZETTE PRESS . . Printers SCHENECTADY. N.Y. K7 jAY STREET ARMY GAME optimism. The Cadets have had no The game with Army tomorrow . games yet this season, but they will be played in the Field House have held two practice scrimmages at West Point, and will get under- with Temple and came out on the way at 2:30 p.m. General Admis- short end of both. sion tickets will sell for $1.00 at In their first home game of the the Academy. season last Saturday, the Dutch- STOP WORRYING! PHONE 6-3456 Call Ball and Ball Will Call TAKE DAD ARR·OW SHIRTS \BARONET 11 $7.50. 11 DALE 11 $4.50 FOR CHRISTMAS! ''HULL\ $3.65 There's nothing your Dad, brother or rich uncle would like better than Arrows for Christmas . So why waste vacation time shopping? Just see your local Arrow dealer for some practical gift suggestions. For example-Arrow's fine white shirts are always welcome, and a warm and colorful Arrow sports shirt would be a perfect gift for an outdoor Dad ! ARROW SPORTS SHIRTS FROM $4.00 A few nice Arrow ties might hit the spot. $1 to $2.50. Or how about a box of fine Arrow hand· kerchiefs with Dad's initial? See your Arrow Dealer. A'RROW • ARROW SHIRTS and TIES HANDKERCHIEFS from 35c

! ·. t I ;: - 6' FRIDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1949 TT ,.-, t k ' TIT • N cl bb Radio Club (} nuer a.· er s J'Y arnzng n:7::;~eak~astrs The Union College. Amateur (Continued from Page 1) R dlo Club has sent 63 messages Ec;l. Note-Anthony Rinaldi has been an un!ie!'taker for. about. 25_ T.he Newman Club observed its foar· studen-ts. this year through the· One Who Lived One Who Waited It all happened so fast, a split The State ;Police finally located it · d ~orn M years. He was at one time president .of the Schenectady Common annual breakfast last sun ay ,.. • New \\. ark State traffic net. · . es-_ second, -the winlt of an eye, the -25 miles away. CounciL) _.._ ing in the Bale Bouse Faculty . ~ 1 t f the United flash of a neon sign, who cay say? We arrived just as .the doctor. \' , Lounge. a·uest :speakers at the club sages .to a! pa.r -~.- o. . . , . . . <Continued from Page lJ Suddenly thel ·e was anoth~r nar States, possessiOnS _a-nd A_ ·merl• · '' ~ came out of the operating room. By ...... TTHONY ·R· INALDI 'b -kf t , New York State 1 d will i I .<'>\-~ rea as i'lere can ct\tl'zens in -occup _e _ .zones · . n front of me. swerved to avoid ''How is he?\ I asked. A d · • h f tl h l\d ? y ? Th Supreme Court Judge Leon Layden, t f f charge it. The police said the speedometer \His condition is-fair.\ . re you rlVIng orne or 1e ·. o 1 ays . ou are . . en and Dr. Carter Davidson, Union. be accepted and sen ree o. . . cable had snapped at ao. \And how is the girl?\ ' you're just the fellow I'm looking for Who am I? 1 am College. president. Jn his speech by the club. At present messages They hauled me away in a hearse \Not badly hurt.\ A miracle! She. an undertaker; but don't get frightened. Thi:;~ time I'm not· Judge Layden expressed concern may be left at room SMSNC, of- that doubled as an ambulance. Peo- had been thrown through the wind· looking for business. ·over the growing -socialistic te_nd- fleers of the' club· said,. ple who were there said it was·· shield 35 feet! · ~~--------~-~---- enc·y as it applies· to f·ederallsm Other activities -of the club aiid . I merely want to tell you some- -e · · t' W2GSB have· the right wagon to do the job, not But when I saw my son, my heart and education. Dr. Davidson's a_ d· its shortwave sta 100 · - · · thing about -safe .driving. I know · •t ·t b tt t t th !\ttl· · th ece-\' because it was an ambulance-. I sank. He was unconscious, pale, 1sn · I e er o ge ere a 1 · e dress was titled \The Place ·of Re- been ·participating 1 n e r ·~\ · h It-\ . you have heard all I am going. -to 1 t · - -· t\ t h · t t d by remember the ride to the · asp cu. swathed in bandages through a er m one p1ece uaf! o !!:Ve liglon in Education.\ Sweepstakes Con es s:ronsore ' · It was llke an hallucination, a bad· which the blood was soaking. A. say before, but you have never you-r tolks gather around you in Other guests of the club at break· t-he American Radio Relay Leagu,e heard the -qndertaker's side of it. h ·t 1 a· d f b'd · ff'll t d T\' dream. I knew my head was there double compound fracture of the a osp1 a: room or, o · o: 1 ' 1n f·ast were: Very Reverend John J. with which it is a 1 a e ' · .. e but I couldn't feel it. That was skull! The surgeon couldn't, count You think that, just because we a morgue? Finn, Revere11d Francis X. Ry!J.n, station was operated for 4Q hours eight o'clock Sunday evening-. the stitches! His left eye was in-. are in this business of embalm\ng Iam su1•e you wa11t to be back • Mvs. Qarter Davidson, Dr~ and Mrs. during t!Je two Week-ends of the 1 can even remember coming in- valved-perhaps-! and burying people, we shouldn't Have your car chec).ted before Hunt)ey, Mrs. Ketz, and Chaplain contest and a total of over 10,000 to the emeL\gency room. They What to do now? Call his care whether they dies a natural you start out; make sure every- C. Victor Brown. Kenneth Whalen points were scored. The club is a started to shave the flap of skin mother-on her vacation in an- de!].th or get themselves smashed thing is in tip-top shape, especially was the toastmaster. member of the college net Which that had peeled from my skull. other state? Get her out of bed up in an automobile accident. Well, the brakes. Drive carefully; take o meets every Friday afternoon and They started to shave it before the in the midd•le of the night? \But that's where you are sadly mis- yam: time; start early eaough so Basketball is continuing to conduct· ·code anasthesia had taken effect. Jesus, said my friend, \Suppose he doesn't taken, because you have no idea . that you will not be tem,pted .to classes th . .,ee .times a week hi k . (Continued from Page 5J • how it hurt. From that time to come out of it?\ That was the what a terrible job it is to pic speed. Be courteous to ·other driv- · · t f Dewey Ha·ll. · 1 ft f Speidel each scored nme pom.s or sometime Tuesday afternoon I ex- catch. Nothing .to do but make up and scrape up what IS e o ers on the road; they may have no D't d b d t t the Garnet, while George 1 mar· isted somewhere between this world tli.e call. a mangle human ody an o pu idea of the hurry you are ih. Ob- . 1 led Williams with 20 points. and the next, torn between im· The next day a frantic trip for it together like a Jig-saw .puzz_ e serve all the safety rules of the The probable st!J,rting lineup for,. Library Needed agl ·natr'on and realt'ty. his mother. A ruined vacation for so that it will look something like road. And; last but not least, don't b C k' the weekend games will e: oo re ---o·--- '[f I could only forget that ex- her and for his sister who had to its former owner. drink either before or while you Sher·win and Bill Kasliowski at for- (Continued from Page 4) l ·stenco in a half-world ... There return from summer camp, to help Undertakers are not strictly are driving, for that .is the surest · J C d- ~ ward, Dick Speidel and · im ar-. though it need not remain unt1se · was ., ca 1 _., just a chassis and a·. while we went to the hospital. speaking plastic surgeons, but vic- way to invite accidents. d d c t · J\ f ,.. michael at guat: , an ap am 1m T'··ere would be plenty -of room or m ~tor. a motor that took up half. Weeks of waiting to know whether tims of automobile a~\cidents some- M·ake 1's a really Me· r·ry Chrt'st- p · k • t '' th t v -. emriC ·a. cen er, the various activities office!? a t he chassis, \TOtesque and unreal. his eye or his hearing were per- times require a lot of plastic sur- mas for ever,•one,. including your- Th · f th B kl - hb · ,... \ e summarres o e 1~00 yn now house themseJ.ves in Was urn • o y an · _I mms games: Hall. The college bookstore cou I could feel the vibrations as the manent:ly affected - whether his gery before thev are placed in the s_elf. Hope to see you on the cam·· p 1 - d W\ll' - ld . . B ·Yil Po Y \' ' n on be m· oved in, also.\ · motor took hold-but I hadn't mind would be clear! No car to casket, and the job of embalming pus ,after the holidays and Merry kl 11 \ F p u· 1 G F p started it. I could hear the bark travel 50 miles to the hospital- a body which has been literally Christmas to you all. Haun l 3 6 Kaznowski •O o 0 of the exhaust that built up to a and no public conveyance! A dismembered and then patched up ____ 0 ,____ Piccione 0 5 5 Spiedel ·I 1 9 It is evident that the library is fi h If ld gl .Il' caree a! t topped J'ust II \bl . t Fin'k'nagel 7 5 19 Pemriclt 4 6 H be'tng pla-nned ·(at least b~ the .li· deafening roar, lied my a -wor · s r mos · s · as we . as poss1 e rs no a very Mahon 2 1 5 Sherwin 1 6 8 · with stinking gas fumes and.shat- two weeks before gmduation. Bills! easy or pleasant one. It's about as Heck Talks to Class Nieder'sen 1 o 2 carml~hael 1 o 2 brarian) with no cornpromtse wtth tering, pounding, throbbing sound. Worries! Discomfort! Anxiety! gruesome a sight as the most fiend- Steiljes o 1 1 Davi& 1 2 3 14 5. the ideal. While 50,000 books could If God would only Jet me put on For what? To save five minutes! ish mind could imagine. It's a ,Oswald Heck, '24, Speaker of the ~.'J:i;i~n -~ & ~ ~~;~~~ g 0 0 minimally serve the needs of an the brakes, let go of the steering Five minutes which became five sight you wouldn't want to look at New Yor!t State Assembly, met ih· Skobstrom o o o Roberts 1 1 3 -vnd·ergraduate student body of the wheel, let me jump, just Jet me go. weeks before my son reached for very long; but the undertaker formally with Prof. J. J. Ander- Sadowskal> (} o o Petrone 0 0 0 size of Union's contemplated 1,000, But there were no brakes, not even home. must not only look at it, he must son's government class Saturday Totais 1 3 14 41 Totals 18 19 55 such a library would be static, a brake pedal, my hands were Fortunately he was able to go put the pieces together one by one morning, December 4th. Speaking l:'tilon G F p Williams a F p wouldn't keep the faculty intellec- glued to the steering wheel and my on with his education and his if the pieces are all there, and if In an unguarded attitude, Heck Kaznowski 4 1 9 Larson a 1 7 tually alive, nor permit ·Of much re- foot kept pushing the accelerator career. But for five weelts all hung any are missing he must use his sacrificed pelitical discretion for Shea 2 1 5 Page ~ 0 0 44 search. Then, ,too, there is a hint h h · th b I A tt st ep · · t' · f h\ · b t· Petrone 0 0 0 Tusey \ that the college WI\ll offer extens1've through the floor as I shot t roug m e a ance. pre Y e 1magma Ion m as tanmg su s I- the sake of proving qis points. Futton o .o o Taylor o 1 1 black, endless space in a phantas- price to pay for five minutes! And lutes, so as to cushion the shock Insight on the workings of the Sherwin 2 o 4 Sheehy 2 2 6 ,graduate worlt in the future. magoria of sound. Faster, faster. who paid the price? Himself, his to those who are tied to the corpse state legislature were drawn from g:~;;\~~~ael ; i 1 ~ ~~1on ~ ~ 1 ~ While the concepts set forth by still faster, until the car exploded girl, his mother, his father, his by bonds of love and affection. 17 years of active politicl~ing. Ques- Grant 4 ·O s Bush o o o Mr. Webb represent current in a whirlpool of flashing, whirl- sister. He hadn't thought of them You will be in a hurry to get tions from the students were frank- Spiedel 4 1 9 Ditmar 9 2 20 thought, the plans obviously will ing, multi-c.olored lights. I was fall- -nor of himself. You never do home to your folks, I know. You ly answered at the conclusion of Roberts 2 ° 4 remain flexibly ·amenable to future ing through space, my head beat- until it is too late. can't get there fast enough; but the dissertation. 0 '¥'~~als 2~ ~ 5~ Totals 24 9 57 developments. ing, aching, my body screaming In But it's not too late fo1· this protesting agony, excruciating Christmas! Will your parents. have agony that was biting and tearing you or your corpse? though strangely, a horrible relief o~.--- from my hellish ride. The half-world would merge briefly into reality as the nurse would give me a shot, morphi~e and peniclllin alternately. Left hrp. left shoulder, right shoulder, right hip, left hip ... always the hypo- dermic. Roll over, left hip _ .. The needle sharp and searing, but it was real, I was still alive. Don't let me fall back. The car again, always the same, the huge motor, the naked chassis. the whining roar ever building up in a terrible crescendo, the lights. bright, blind- ing, blinldng, the explosion, the needle, the car, real, unreal. speed- ing, falling, screaming, laughing, crying, irr ploring _ . _ Suddenly it stopped. everything stopped. Now the dPadly silence scarPd lllJ'. ThPn ~lcn,·J,·. infinit<'\im- ally the- da 1 knPse h<'g-an to fad<' -away. like dn\\ n nee pine; in aft<'r a moonless night. Light <'rePping in, perrr.eating- my half-world. as silently as fog evaporating. The darkness was fading, it was dis- appearing, it was becoming light . . , But of course. I was dead! I was dead! DEAD. DEAD ... dead. Then there wer<' \'oi<'<'~ and I could understand what they werP saying. It wns a h<'nutiful sound. Ard the li~:ht grew bri•\hl<'t and bright<'r. Jik<' th•· eun rising on a sleeping worl<l. hrilfi·mt and gol<lPn. warm and lif<'-gtvtng. Tl:<' dawn had Pxplod<'cl into full <la,·. All I could think of '\\' th<' '\HRllPiujah Chorus.'\ praisin~.:. <'XIclling r.nd in his goodness. Hall<'lujah. Hnllelu· jah, louder and lcudPr, HALLE- LUjAH. HALLELUJAH. I was alive, alive. LifP. life . LIFE. I was lucky, I'd been given a second chance. Agnello Talent (ContinueC! from Page 4l that city. During the last four months of his service, Agnello was first sergeant of his unit. It was the last American band to leave France, in April, 19.46. Returning to Union in January, 1947, Agnello changed from engi- neering to an economics major. In the• fall of 1947, he joined a band organized by Jerry Gonyea and soon afterwards took over the lead. He wanted to play at dances held after home basketball ga,mes, but the local musicians' union, of which Agnello is not a member, objected. Consequently the band limits itself to chapel programs and occasional ~oncerts Death Claims Dean's Father Charles H. Huntley, 70, father of C. William Huntley, dean of Union Cc•llege, died Wednesday night at his home, 703 Bedford Road, Sche- nectady. . Noted as an authority on the history of Schenectady and the Mohawk Valley, Mr. Huntley re- tired in 1946 as a special writer for the General Electric Company's. advertising and publicity depart- moL · He was born In New \Voodstock, N. Y., May 15, 1878. He became a country school teacher at the age d 16, was graduated from Cortland :s'ormal School in 1902, and joined the staff of the Schenectady GazPtte In 190-1 ;: s ar. editorial writer. Mr, Huntley was engaged in newspaper work in Schenectady, Rochester and Albany until 1920, when he joined the GE news staff . From 1928 to 1933 he was editor of the GE Monogram. From thl>n until his retirement he was special writer and textile critic for the advertisin~: and publicity depart-· ment. · He was active in Mas< ·nic affairs, having h<'ld· many posts in local :\b:;ontc ot d<'rs. During the fir sf \\ o1 ld \\ ar he uq . .;aniv.•d a side Ur•- \'\'' in Fr:Jnce ·-which spread to four cltJes and attatn(·J a men1· bt•r\hl!-' of over 10.000. Funet a! 8ervices are at the con- venience of the family. SERVING UNION\S MEN I=OR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete He4d to Foot Service UN I TED, CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4·5676 II~ STATE Near FERRY ·' Art loves music .and enjo~·s work- ing with musicians. OnP of his p('t peeves is the popular mi~co_nccption that musicians lead dull, one-sided lives. This, says Agnello, is far from the truth, for some of the most interesting and inspiring peo- ple he has rome in contact with are musicians H<> p~rticularly nd mires t-he pff<ir·ts of Stan Kenton to! put popular music on an \'1\\1 scale With symphonic music. Art Agneilo has music in his blood i he· will .always be fond of It, whether conducting or merely appreciating. ~~~~~~~~~~~)ilr.ri~. ;> \GIVE 'EM BY THE CARTON\ -says Arthur Godfrey: '' . . at Christmas time or anY '11 nd belteve me, .. ld . a· 'load of 11 f Ch . terfte s ts h time a carton o es ' So give 'ern by t e che:r' for ~erH. ~~~:!the MILDE~ cigarette. carton, because theY. J: ~ . . . ·lt .. ~ll\Rl ot lou~ \s\and -Un11etsl\Y 1 I I I . !

tb.e· wiJl arge ages of• and llY ague Tlie the is a ·code in :for that could is 11· with could of an the 1,000, static, re- hint by urrent y will future PRICE TEN CENTS Fi.re. Sweeps Phi Delta The'tcl SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1948 Vol. 76, No. 14 Business Men's Contribu#01l• On Center Fold Story; Other Pictures On Back Page • Upper left, water-filled basement, showing caved-in first floor. Upper right charred room on second floor, showing J!u.rned baseball bat and book Qf Carlyle \Cookie\ SherwiJi, sports ace. Middle left, fireman inspects sino king ruins of first • floor. Right, overall shot of blaze shortly after arrival of firemen. Lower left, firemen working toward second floor after conti·olling basement blaze. Lower right; burned ldtchen, ~ho1'tly after blaze was brought Wider control.

Schenectady B u.sinessmen Pitch Co.mpliments of (RJ~ Ta·@~$ ' Schenectady Union-St.ar • 13~ \TODAY'S NEWS TODAY\ • HequernbourCJ Agency Ge .. eral lnsuranc:e C. L. Hequembourg A. W. Paige A. V. Louer John I. Shutts Conrad I. Shutts Edward C. Nufer 133 Wall Street ' BURTISS Motor Sales Inc •. • 227 ERIE BLVD. Men's Clothing -• 240·242 State St. l WINNE ~ McKAIN . l , Co., lne. VAN VOAST Agency I I I l : I • COAL and FEED .. GENERAL INSURANCE . I 157 Barrett St. Phone 4-7791 ' L------------------- _,. Compliments of WITH BEST WIS:HES I • ... SCHENECTADY GAZETTE In to The : merchants dvertising in this s of The have pure at three ti es the nor· . order to who suf· ·the Phi fl day. be money less the b e produc· to membe ~· of the fraternity individual· Iy, acoordi g · to how much loss they sus- , ' tained. Th amount to be distribqted is two hundred -dollars. ' This collection~ ex- pected to aid the men immediately to help them purc\tase' clothes and other personal items which are not covered biy the insur- ance on the house. Some ~f the men have part of their personal loss covered by fire insurance :Which their parents. hold. This will be taken into consider- ation along with the fact that . some lost much more · heavily than otheFS. ........ ... .... ... ..: .. JOSEPH•s Cloth•s Shop I • . 513 St,te Street . I Stan ·~~se~h, Union '2.1 !

to Give to Phi Delta Thetas .~--- ...... ~-~.---...-~--, :~~~====~~~~ rr:====:;::::====il r.=========il e . I s eial i$81le I cordiensjs . I F A._ ·B I A ·N· , pure ed space j· · · ,· ti es the nor- . - T h e· a t e r 5 I ' ; value . order to 1 · · · · · m who suf- I · the Phi f l I • IF====~~ I. i • Proctor's State I I, • 'P.LEASANT 'VALLEY Meat Market 588 Broadway * PHONE 4-3.181 ~Bmlz ~.P~o General .Insurance 148 Clinton St. Phone 4-7751. membe :s· of the individual- acoordi g · to how loss they sus- I Plaza 1 · JAMEs .. 1 --- 1 . Th amount to is two dred -dollars. Erie l Mc:NEARNEY. \ 1 1 • • • :GUY BUICK • Distributor · l 1 · c 1 colleetion is ex- to aid the men to help purchse' clothes other personal which are not by the insur- e on the house. ~f the men have of their personal covered by fire :Which their hold. This will into consider- along with the t that . some lost more · heavily othe:JrS. ... ...:·· ........ ,.., OSEPH•s Shop I - 513 St,te Street . I ·~~se~h 1 Union '2.1 ! l i. · : : · o., nc. 1 St d 1 1· Schenectady l · I ran I • l Engraving· l i ' I I I l .=~-~-~--;;·;;·;;· ·;;·;;--;;-;;--~-;;--;;·;;·;;· ~J~~~~~~~~g I : Co. I := I I I . t· . SCHENECTADY\ ·SAVINGS BANK • 500 State St. l ' I I I I e I l I I I ·----------------.---A / • 912 STATE STREET .IN THE HOLIDAY SEASON- . -THE BEST OF EVERYTHING NUSBAUM'§ • Clot'hier So Naturally The VAN ·CURLER II 447' State St. TAP ROOM , I

Pictures above show aftermath of last Monday's fraternity house blaze. In scene at right, drinking mug sits amid water- drenched, smoke-blackened ruins of Phi Delta Theta house's living room. , At left, Phi, fraternity's mascot, after pawing in vain at heat-blistered door casts a pleading glance toward the cameraman. AU photographs for this issue were taken by Robert Heinemann, photo editor .of The Concordiensis, who responded to an early- morning call and stayed w,i.th the fire for three hours in near- zero weather. Damage Estimated at $40 ~000 in Early Morning Fire The Phi Delta Theta 1 Housing, Help Offered Victims fraternity house on Le~ox Help for the men of Phi Delta~ - Road was swept by fire Theta fraternity was offered quick- I the use of the house for Dr. Er~est last Monday mornin 0' I ly from a wide range of friends, Ligon's Character Research PrOJeCt . h 28 b 0 ' 1 both national and local, after the by the Schenectady Board of Zen- leaVIng t e mem ers, extent of the damage caused by ing Appeals. _ . living there homeleSS and , the fire was known. Th~ IFC decided. to hold a specml • · ~~ t' I Paul C. Bean, executive secretary meetmg Sunday mght to find tem- caUSing l.lftmage es 1- of the national Phi Delt fraternity, porar! quarter~ for the d_i~placed mated at $40,000. , promised Harold Wittner, alumni ~en m the var10u~ fraternities un- s I t d f' f ht 1 president of the local association, hi after exammat10ns are over at, C 1enec a y Jremen oug i financial aid if rtj!eded from a fund t~e end of January. At the .begin- the stubborn blaze for more specially created for emergencies of mng of the new term, the Phi Delts than two hours in near-zero i this sort. will move into the first floor of weather before bringing it! Dr. Carter Davidson offered the Seneca Lodge if present plans go under control. No one was frat~rnity the temporary use of the through. · b 'ld' t h t' f Achilles home. 1811 Avon Road. A meeting of the alumni officers Ill the UI mg a t e 1me 0 However, the officers of the fra- was held on De'l:ember 15th to dis- the blaze. ternity said that lack of adequate cuss the rebuilding of the fratern- The fire, of undetermined origin, furniture in the house plus the ity house in the next few years, apparently started in the basement amount of work required to get it according to Hal Wittner. The dis- of the four-story stucco structure into shape for fraternity use de- cussion was tentative, he said, with and is thought to have been burn- cided them against taking the of- no expectations that their plans ing for more than an hour before fer. The college was recently denied would require immediate action. being spotted by twu Schenectady -- ~------- ----- -~ . House Insured For $50,000 The 35-year-old home of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity, ruined by fire last Monday, was insurable for $52,000, ac- cording to an officer of the fraternity, and was insured for $50,000. No official esti- mate had been received from the insurance company this morning. Personal belongings of those liv- ing in the house were not covered by the insurance, fraternity of- ficials reported, although some of the members were bel'ieved to have had coverage from their homes. Those living in the house were .called back to the campus after-the blaze to remove their belongings and t\o arrange for other housing. patrolmen passing in a police car. Local fire department inspectors believed the fire was started by the oil burner in the basement which was installed two years ago. How- ever, an insurance inspector found evidence of defective wiring in the cellar, according to Hal Wittner, president of the local fraternity alumni group which owns the I F C M H ld D B f •t Plans for the future are inde- ay 0 ' ance as ene I finite, according to Hal Wittner, Possibility that a mid-winter members for a vote, the results of. Phi Delta Theta alumni· president, dance may be held as a benefit for which will be considered at an IFC pending contractors' and ins.ut<nl.ce the Phi Delta Theta fraternity meeting Tuesday. inspectors' estimates of the extent made homelPss by Monday's fire, Phi Delta Theta, which would. of damage. were disclosed this week by Waltet benefit by such a dance, according Need for a new building was dis- Doran, president \Of the Interfra· to Doran's suggestion, is reported cussed at a meeting of the fratern- ternity Council. to have voted against a midwinter ity organization about two weeks building. Eleven pieces or Schenectady fire apparatus responded to the double It is not definite that a winter IFC dance, favoring instead a before the fire, but no definite plans prom will be held, how(lver. The dance sponsored by three fraterni- · were made, according to fraternity matter was referred to fraternity ties, itself includiia. officials. alarm. With its head start, the hydrants nearly 200 yards from the fire burned up through partitions blaze., and floors, producing cloudi/ of The main floor of the structure dense smoke which hampered fire- was burned through and collapsed · men. The basement blaze was fed in two places, seriously weakening I by oil leaking from a line supplying damage was confined· mainly to the the oil ,burner, according to Fire . first floor and two or three rooms Chief James Higgins. on the second floor, with extensive Over 100,000 gallons of water smoke and water damage resulting wez;e pumped into the building many ·supporting beams, Fire through hose lines stretched to . in the rest of the building. :\Iemuer Associated Collegiate Press and distributor 'of the Collegiate Digest. !':a tiona! Advertising Representative; National Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Repr~sentative, ·420 Madison Ave., N. Y. C. Published every Friday of the schoot year. Editorial Offh-e, Washburn Hall, Union College. Publication Office, The Gazette Press, 334 State St. Entered ir, the Schenectady Post Offi~e as Se~ond Class Mail Matter. subscription 10c a coj)y: $3 year: delivered anywhere in the United States. Vol. I Pc c o· sem star an Pre~ cha1 Th facul a sy ation COUVl This som•e point presE Th senic pass; atter u., Fe Or. cam] othe· the tady The hind wa,s frozE largE behi1 a! on: Fr Man ties mak heat of s flooc Or ing · The men· to ib ance base time p~ Pl~ Ut final Delt on the by 1 this pres of t' .A mad wha of t. ovet tent Wit\ fin a' cost :M i:pg plac wl;l.i: refti