1948 Founded at Union College in 1877 V<»l~ 71, No. 3 v'f\ SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER l, 1948 PRICE 10 CENTS Colnmittee Org,aniz·ed Mohawk Fire Dance Kick-Off Banquet Marks Beginning Of Building Drive For HEUP Plans Laid to Expand Foreign Student Aid Program to Other · Private Colleges A formal organization con- sisting of seven fraternity and two neutral representatives has been set up at Union to spread the Help Plan (Higher Education for Lasting Peace) throughout the country. Plans are new underway to contact about one hundred private · colleges as the first step in · the program. Formerly Bowdoin Plan The plan, formerly known as the Bowdoin Plan, has resulted in the arrival upon the campus of seven selected foreign students who would have been unable to attend an American college without • financia\i: assistance. Free tuition has been provided by the adminis- tration from the unused portion of the scholarship fund while housing and subsistence for the students has been supplied by seven fra- ternities. Any Group May SponsQir Although this year {)nly fratern- ity groups were in a favorable position to take part in tha plan, any group on this campus, or at any other college which endorses the plan, will b'e allowed to select one student for next year from a list provided by the Institute of International Education in New York City. The group may specify the nationa.lity of the student de\ sired. The foreign students attending college here this year under the plan are: Aarne A. Ahokas, Fin- land, guest of Beta Theta Pi; Joseph J. C. Alberdingk Thim, Netherlands,' guest of Phi Gamma Delta; Mathias K. Foyn, Norway, guest of Chi Psi; J;sak Gerson, Greece, guest of Phi Sigma Delta; Hermann A. Haus, Austria, guest {)f Phi Delta Theta; Nguyen-Dinh Hoa, VietNam, French Indo-China; a:ri.d Michel Perier, France, guest of Alpha Delta Phi. ---o--- To Elect Council ·Officers in Chapel ---------------~ Skidmore, Sage on List The Union College Outing Club'> announced plans for the coming year including all types of outdoor activity. There are .openings for a number of men on all trips planned. The first of these is scheduled for October 9, w'hen a group from Student Council .officers will be the club will go on a eanoe trip elected Monday, October 11 in daily with the Vassar Outing Club to chapel. Vacancies in class repre- . Lake George. The following week- sentatives will be filled at the same end, Oct. 16, two .or three canoe- time. Ten candidates will be hi- loads of men will journey to the traduced by election chairman John RPI sponsored Hudson Va.lley Out- Di Bello immediately before the ing Clubs meeting. Scheduled for ballots are cast. Freshman elec- that same day is an afternoon hikll tions for temporary officers are starting at Lock 8 on the Mohawk slated for the same time. River. For the 24 .of Octob·er, an afternoon ·hike w;lth Russel Sage is The voting will be clarified for · f t'h the student body by attaching bal- planned. Transportation r~m e lots for each class to the regular campus is arranged and eqmprr~nt for the overnight trips may be chapel credit slips. In this manner rented from the club. there will be considera.bly less con- To provide off-campus outdoor re- fusion over unauthorized votes. The creati.oti the the year 'round is the, entil·e process is expected to be con- aim of the club, which invites any- tained within the allotted twenty one interested in planning and par- minute period. Results will be an- 't' t tt d nounced in chapel Tuesday, October ticipating in the activl Ies o a en a general meeting to be held soon. 12. Skiing, canoeing, . ca~ping,. hikin.g, At a regular session of the Stu- and mountain climbmg trtps w1ll dent Council, David Killian and be planned at t:his xneeting, provid- Jim Pemrick were nominated for ing enough interest is shown. As President, while Kenneth Mciver an example .of what cart be don.e, and Edward Karsky were named xnost freshmen will recall the tnp for secret<J,ry. In the absence of which the club led up Buck Moun- campaigning for this election, stu- tain during the ·freshman camp. It dents are warned not to overlook is reported that 167 men started up the iinportance of casting ballots. and 1G7 men got to the top--a few It is expected that the Monday under the personal guidance of chapel will be the mo.st heavily at- Fred Wyatt, Outj.ng Club Advisor. tended of the year. Another phase of club activities David Killian, Beta Theta Pi, has is its connection with the intercol- expressed \confidence\ in the out- legiate Outing Club Association. come of the election. James Pem-. The club was represented recently rick was not available for comment. at the annual meeting of the. I.O.- Candidates muet submit a peti- C.A. which was held at Lake tion bearing at least fifteen names Colden, N. Y. of class xnates, including all acti- :Keep up with clUb news and ac- vities, and stating the office de~ tivities; consult the bulletin board sired before October 6. on the ll)ast side of Old Chapel. In a frenzy of 'school spirit,' four Union freshmen were caught by the camera of Rob- ert Heinell)ann as they circled last Friday's pep rally bonfire. Later, when their speed had in- creased, they were thrown by centrifugal force into a tan- gent which carried them, with hnndreds of other screaming scholars to the steps -of the Van Curler hotel in downtown Schenectady. New Element Found Here It was revealed last night by the Physics Departxnent that two upperclassmen have made a discovery vital to the further development of atoJPiC energy for civilian uses. The two stu- dents, whose names will not be released until the FBI has pro- vided protection for them against possible attacks, have been working under scholar- ship grants from the Atomic Energy CoirJmission. Earliest signs pointing to a new element that will revolu- tionize the atomic ·energy in- dustry, were seen last year dur- ing Christmas vacation when a small radioactive substance was left on a piece of Hale House toast for two weeks, When the students returned at the end of their vacation, the toast had grown and: sprouted numerous tiny tentacles that were highly radioactive. - These tentacles were shelter- ed in lead bee!' casks for three weeks while being subected to a bombardment of beta and. gamma rays given off by .the cup of Hale House -coffee sit- ting beside· the toast. The new element was foUnd to disinte- (Continued on P.age 6) The national drive to raise half a million dollars to build a Memorial Field House at Union College swung into motion on Saturday, September 25, wheFJ. members of the fund rais- ing Committee of 1,000 attended the Kick-Off Diiu1er at Hale House. Enlivened by Union's 19.:7 victory over St. Lawrence, those attending the dinner gave an enthusiastic push to the .forthcoming drive. • Photo by Heinemann ~------------~------------~-- Ball to Pop Nov.5,12P.M. Plans for the annual IFC Grid- iron Ba.ll are rapidly taking shape with the date set for November 5. · Bill Hartnett, chairman of the ball committee, has not yet announced the band, theme, or price of tick- ets. Negotiations have not yet peen completed with loc.al florists for special rates on corsages. Dancing will be from 10 to 2, with a guarantee that \something will pop at midnight!! Repeat: Something will pop at midnight!!\ The Union Octet is slated to pro- vide intermission entertainment, following a decorous audience par- ticipation program. IFC Sponsored Oswa.ld D. Heck, '24', speaker of cess, said Mr. Wittner, athletics the New York State Assembly, served as master of ceremonies at are an integral part of the college program, and the department of the dinner and introduced the other physical education must have ada- speakers, including Robert P. Pat- quate equipment to do its job well. terson, '12, former Secretary of Walter c. Baker, who was praised War in President Tt·uman's cabinet, by Mr. Weed along with Frank who ·delivered the principal ad- Bailey for his contributions to dress; Edward F. Hennelly '1 2 , C. Union, remarked that the erection ~ Hequembourg, ' 12 • national of a field house was on the build- chairman of the fund-raising cam- ing agenda of the College as far - paign; Frederic A. Wyatt '32, di- back at the early 1930's, but re- rector of alumni rel•ations; Leroy pairs to existing units necessarily J. Weed '01, secretary of the Board demanded priority. Alumni director of Trustees; J. Harold Wittner, '20, Fred Wyatt recalled that pressure director of athletics; Walter C. was brought to bear some years Baker '15, chairman of the trus- ago to build a field house in mem- tees; Walter Hochuli '18, President ory of the late George H. Daley '92, Carter Davidson and Harold M. Van de Car , 37 , director of finan- long an active figure in the alumni, but the advent of the war inter· ci:al development. The Rev. Larman rupted these plans. Mr. Wyatt also S. Sherwood '34 pronounced the in- noted that the new field house will vocation. The guests were enter- be a living memorial to the 76 tained by the Union College Glee Union alumni who were killed dur- Club, under the direction of Dr. ing the .second World War, rang· Elmer A. Tidmarsh. ing in rank from brigadier general FaV().l'S Field House to apprentice seaman. In the principal address, which An excellent use for Memorial was broadcast over WSNY, Mr. Field House, according to Presi- Patterson praised the achievements dent Carter Davidson, would be in of the men who served in World the possible ROTC program now War II, speaking from first hand under consideration by the Trus- as a visitor to the war fronts of tees and faculty. The facilities of the world during his service in the the College should be of the best cabinet. He pointed out that the possible use to a.ll parts of the stu- new field house would both record dent body, said Dr. Davidson, and the patriotism and devotion of the the field house will fit that require- American soldier and help to ment very well. carry on the mission of the College to provide outstanding citizens. Walter Hochuli spoke on the ne- Emphasizing the vital importance cessity of good salesmanship dm:ing of the United States in world poli- the drive, urging the committee tics, Mr. Patterson spoke of the members to appeal to the pride menace of the totalitarian powers and college s:pirit of the alumni and noted that \tl).e presence of the from whom funds are solicited. force to resist is the only stop sign C. L. Hequembourg revealed tha.t .they will read.\ In this connection, 10% of the needed funds have al- he said that the United States ready been obtained and that three needs to rearm in order to give years are set in which secure the confidence to friendly foreign na- remainder. tions. The former secretary stated In concluding the program, Har- that under the conditions of the old Van de Car, who as the newly world today, bodily as well as men- appointed director of financial de- tal vigor must be developed in col- velopment will manage the tech- lege through widespread activities nical side of the campaign, prom- in physical education. He was sure ised that interest in campus ex- that the response to the fund rais- pansion would not lapse after the ihg campaign would be generous field house is erected, but would and prompt. take in many other projects, in- Not New Idea eluding a Freshman dormitory and Messrs. Hennelly and Wittner· student union, a new library and stressed the overcrowded state of fine arts 'building, a modern Ian- athletics at Union today. With guage building, and the renovation physical fitness necessary for sue- of Bailey Hall .. Harold Larrabee Predicts Dewey Can ''Back In'' If- The Gridiron Ball is one of Union's most enjoyable traditions, sponsored each fall by the Inter- A one-sided electoral vote in • fraternity Council. Usually falling· favor of Dewey and Warren W{)Uld cratic, when they vote, than Re- on the eve of the last home foot- not necessarily indicate the coun- publica.ri. ball gaxne of the season, it is the try's return to \Republican con-· In the second place, he stated, opening gun on a gala socia:l week- servatism,\ Dr. Harold A. Larra- more and m{)re people are voting end. Freshmen, .fol' this short bee told Union college students in for president as times goes on. period, have the distinction of be- daily assembly on Thursday. These two facts are \far from ing \social sophomores,\ in the In the first of a series of six encouraging to the cons·ervative complete absence of under-class re- election background talks at the Republican . . . because this strictions. It is expected that at-· college assembly, Dr. Larrabee de- country has been swinging left tendance will surpass the 399 paid clared that on the basis of time- of center for a long. time,\ he admissions of the 1947 Junior Prom :tested techniques of prediction it said. due to the particularly spirited is possible Dewey and Warren \The greater the. turn'()ut, the Freshman class, and continu!!;lly may \yet face a Dexnocratic greater the proportion of non- social-minded upper-classmen. Senate.\ Republican votes to be expected,\ Walt Rockwell, in charge of tick- Speaking on the coming elec- Larrabee asserted, is \an inescap- ets, will present ducats at half tion results, the chairman of the able conclusion.\ price to married veterans wishing college social studies department He said Dewey can \probably to attend. Tom Cunningham will pointed out that the third and back into the White HouSe with not give any particulars on fa- fourth party candidates have upset a lullaby campaign provided be vors, other than mentioning that the poll-takers who make their does not put too many Republi-' \they\ll be klnda diff-erent.\ predictions on a two-party basis. cans t sleep,\ while Truman, on Publicity, soon to be released, The pertinent issue, according the other hand, must \give them will be directed by Dave Strauss, to Larrabee, is not the immediate hell\ in face of party disunity. with Paul Hochuli handling theme election returns, but what is hap- \Beware then,'' he warned, \of and decoration arrangements. John pening to the country in the trend. superficial interpretations of a Patton and Bill Gardham head the First, he said, the population- of possibly one-sided Dewey electoral house committee; while Jim Rosen the country now is concentt•ated victory in a relatively small turn- takes care of the entertainment· largely in cities where the people out as \the x·eturn of the country end. are more inclined to vote Demo• (Continued on Page 6)

( I ,q ll 2 . I I, I !\; ! l I ! ' ' i l ' ! ' i ' : I I I \ ' I : ' . I '' f' ., . ' ; i QI.nu.cnr ::...lernb~r A~sul·t.tlt·d. t'ol- lq~l....t.lc l'lvn ,liid di:-~11 butur uf the { ~nlll•gut.tt~ Dtgc~t. );.ttiot,.tl .. Ad' • t- t isi llg' 'Ht>ltlt St·l.t:tti.Yt': ~.t· tlutlul Advetll~wg Sctnc..t.•, btl.., Lui1~.:b,c 1'uiJ:l~h' r .... 'I:Pilf t·~!,.ll! :t.t\\.'t•, 1 :!II ~1;td1 ..,on Avt~ .• ~. Y. l~. PutJ· h~lit:d e\'t:l.}' F11da.) ut L!,~· ~chuul )'' t.•at. E<lituna.J Uffll·~. Wa:;hlnull Hall. l 1 11l•!11 C··lltgt•. l'uh- ill'ation Offi<·e, The lla- zt'ttt..> l're:-:.~. 331 Stute ~t. Elltl'rt•d iu tlw ~ehl\tlee­ latl)' t·u~t tJfftt:t: u::; Sec· ·~..,t•l•d Cla!\l:-; :'.l.lil ~1.~ttt·r. <.;1Jh--rrip1inn lllr' n copy, <li:t yt:'at ~ tJt;!ll\'cred at a)- \\ hcl u 11\ the l'uil\l'll Stalt!.J. ~IA!'<A(;I!'ill HOAHII Ut•nrgt• T. Orirk .......... Etlltor AlbNl l'urbo ....................... llanaging Etlitnr, Jn.me• :\lurruy.... . ................. N PWS Etlitnr llerbort Su\• . . . . . . . ...... :Sports :Etlltur · ItnbN\t Jh•ln•mllllln..... . .............. Pltoto t;dltot· Jlune• .\. Hn.nr. . .. , ........ ARMll'lllto Editut' Frauds :Ueellnn..... . ... -.nrrulutiou :\lunuger Lumlwrt !illl,bHg ................... llu•int>•s Maun.gN' Against R. 0. T. C. 1 recently ,\·as asked to give my views in a round-table dt.scussion opposing the or- ganization of a permanent R.O.T.C. progTam on the Union Campus. Since that time, I have felt that a clarification of mv stand should be made in \·iew or the increasing interest in such a prog-ram. Despite the seeming necessity for national security that has been prompted by the \cold war\ now in existence, I should like to state that l am fenentl,Y and emotionally opposed to military regimentation in any form, par- ticulal'ly on a college campus such as Union. One of the proponents of a permanent R.O.T.C. group stated, in the above-men- tioned discussion, that if such a program were instituted at l..Jnion, it would involve at most only 200 students or approximately one-quarte1· of the normal student body. At schools as large as Harvard or Texas, small military pTograms would not effect the nor- mal course of the college to any great degree; but at Union one-fom·th of the student body permanently involved in a military regimen would certainly distort the principles of education that were founded here 153 years ago. Union would be placed in the un-enviable position of remaining \part-slave and part- free\. Educational institutions in America today seem to be comparatively free from the mania that has gripped the witc~-hunting, force-minded individuals, on both s1des of the water, who have thrown our country into a state of war-ncuro~e~. 'The country seems to be much more military minded than ever before. l f om· colleges universally accept pet·manent H..o.T,.C. programs) it woul~only be a matt\er of time before we usher m the era of a military caste system and greater and greater regimentation of our own peo- ple, as well as those of other countries. :Manv of the students, who seem to be interested in an R.O.T.C. unit on campus, mi()'ht be guilty of self-interest, since such a r~presentative made a public statement to the effect that the dr~ft would undoubtedly interrupt students' careers at college. And. of course, a two year period of U.l\l.T. train- ing would not necessarily guarantee a com- mission in either of the services. The quality of officers that are produced by an R.O.T.C. training unit can be argued endlessly. But one doesn't have to look further tha~ Fred A. Wyatt and others on campus .to fmd excellent examples of Ameri- can Officers who did not have the benefit of a college reserve commission. . In a war emergency it has rarely been the lack of properly trained officers that has held up our country's war efforts· but rather a problem of war production a~d logistics. The ar:ny and navy have been and are still abl~ of. p~oducmg the proper officer ma-. tcnal Wltlun their own organizations. A col- lege tr~med officer would have to go through. a r_e-onentat10n program to refit for duty, whtch would take almost as long as some of the excellent result8 that came from the nmety-day wonder course. Streamline Your ,Profanity Men of Union, arise. Prof. Johnson has made :;~me dastw·dJy claims in his most recent book. 1 hese charge~ are too true to allow young American manhood any peace of mind and contentment in a juiJ well done.. Do you r·eahze that when you swear at your Instructors you are only uttering words 1ull ot :s_ound and fury out signifying nothmg·~ Do you rerutze that when your Oate gets drunk and goes oft wtth u.notner man, that you are merely calling on the anctent art of black magic to nelp you out·~ To- you who lee! that you learned to swear effi- cien~y and etfectively wtule in the service, do you realtze that nothmg new has been seen on the swearing horizon for several generations·~ To you who le~rned to swear by imitating mule drivers or tratermty brothers, do you realize that Shakespeare and Chaucer are better sources, and more original ones? \B.J.\ has turned out not a handbook of •cuss• words for freshmen nor a denunciation of swear- ing a~ evil, but a condemnation of the low place to whtc~ the _manly art of profanity has fallen. Ills humor 1s sprmkled with sadness that youth of the ~;>a;st several generations that he ha.s taught, has . ~atled so completely. He explains the reasons why It has fallen and, almost hopefully, tries to suggest some remedies. · \The Lost Art of Profanity,\ as ru·e all of Burges Johnson's books, is good reading. It is light, easy and small. It can be conquered in an evening if one is reading for pleasure, However, a book this small pleasant and interesting should be studied if w~ are tc:> be able to hold up our heads and say that mankmd has progressed through the centuries. What newness and originality can we show as our contribution to the language of the modern :.Vorld? Communication is our strength and power why do we choose to let it slip so badly? ' ln _an admirable foreword by another expert on sweanng, H. .L. Menoken, the same charges are flung at our heads. Both liken our modern swear- ing to a crowd of people, each trying to outshout the other with meaningless phrases, with nothing but volume as a criterion. Gentlemen of the younger generation, this should not be! _Quotations from all sources, from the earliest wnting~ of Moses to those of H. W. Bibber, \emi- nent .philosopher and man of science,\ bear out their chru·ges.. Our respected Professor Emeritus has called o.r; some mighty :sources po:ssibly by way of ~aymg, May they all condemn me to a life of read- mg perfume ads if it ain't so.\ . Another point made by the author is that there 1s so much profanity in this modern age that it has lost its fo~ce. Soon_ even Boston may stop banning books \~hlch contam damn. When this happens, and until new means of shocking instead of shout- ing, can be thought of, our lives will indeed be dreary. Evidently coming off the presses too late for inclusion as a reference, \The Naked and the Dead\ is .an excellent example. What Dr. Johnson must think of that book will create a whole new era in the realm of profanity-give us some new words, B. J., and in the meantime we'll give the old ones hell. Craig Mitchell, wh t•eviewed Burges John- son's new book, The Lost Art of Profanity, for son's new book, The Lost Art of Profanity, for the Concordiensis, claims to be one of the few recent graduates of Union who have suffered through one of Professor Johnson's courses. He demanded that he be given a chance for rebuttal. Transatlantic Memories By Bill Warner When I discovE>red on that spring day in May, 1947, that I was to be the first post war exchange scholar to St. Andrews University in Scot- land tht) few words of the an- nouncement \vere a bolt from the blue. Those words were sufficient to arouse feelings of surprise, an- ticipation, a little fear, and a very little confidence. These assorted feelings were not to be sorted out for many months and I would hesi- tate to say even now that the whole experience is so compartmented !.hat I can taUt about it with any degree of clarity. But there is some focus to it all though it may not be a pin point of light. \How did you like it at St. An- drews?\ That is the stock question that is asked by everyone that I meet now. I, of course, say, \I lilted it very much. It was a won- dedul year.\ I suppose that is a satisfactory answer to the casual questioner. The person who in- quires further may, if he plies with specific questions, get a more inter- esting, a more informative answer. When I sat down to write this I didn't know how I was going to tell you what St. Andrews meant to me. I finally decided that the best way is to quote from a few para- graphs of an ru·ticie that I wrote for the St. Andrews University lit- erary magazine just as I was get- ting ready to leave my alma mater- for-a-year. You must forgive if some of the following sounds a lit- tle too sentimental. Remember that it was written a.s I prepared to leave a place that I had become a part of, a place that had done a great deal for me in a relatively short space of time. In May, 1948, I wrote: Sand and Time Wait \Time l'Uns on in unordered pro- cession and each event is much like one grain of sand in the shifting dune, only remembered if it lodges in your eye or helps to make a pretty pattern. Now with my time nearly gone, I find one wish para- mount; that I could be in two places at once next year, Union and St. Andrews. . , . It's odd bow cer- tain events leap into the conscious- ness when you look back. And superimposed on th!l thoughts of all these events are the most out- standing, most important memories of all, those of people I have met. \Now that the tradition has been re-established, a unique handful of men will gradually grow into an imposing group, a group whose members will at one and the same time view themselves as alumni of two widely separated universities. . . • An increasing number of in- dividuals will discover that what they have gained from their ca- reers is not a sum but rather a product of factors from either side of the Atlantic. \I have my likes and dislilres at St. Andrews the san1e as I had them at Union, and I should still have th()m if the two places. were syntl;lesized. • . . This year bas done its greatest service to me in enabling me for the first tnne to view my own country objectively. A new light has been cast on all that I previously took for granted. Perhaps I shall look back on this year of exchange as the one which, above all others, raised me from the automatic to the purposive level in thinking and living. . . . Students Forge Linlc \The St. Andrews-Schenectaoy link grows in strength as each year sees two more young men se- lected for exchange, at once hon- ored and challenged. Each one will give some of himself and take unto himself something new to him. What each takes will be carried as an indelible memory. What eaeh gives will not be measurable in common UQits. Perhaps the mein-· ory will be no more than of a year spent in living the'good life'. Per- haps it will be more than this. It might be that what is given is no more than a new song for the !Joys, or a new game, foreign yells from the gym , . • \Play ball\ . . Only you the reader, and those who follow you, and time; oniy these can tell.\ I wrote thus as I prepared to leave St. .Ai:l.drews. The words as I found them then are a better in- dication of how I felt aboUt St. Andrews and the. exchange scholar- ship than anything I could write now. They will tell you whether I liked it over there or not. During the year I shall try to give you . some more impressions of St, An- drews and what I learned during my year abroad. · · l. \ , .. ,.,,. .§':: ~*­ ',-R • .. __ ........ ,.•. .FRIDAY, OCTO'BER l, 1948 The Happy Hour By James A.. Baar The Twilight 'l;'error I have always felt that it was part of the service rendered to Union by the Concordiensis, and especially this column, to act at all times as a social vanguard, to run ahead of the group and warn them, if possible, of imminent dan- gers that lie ahead, and it is in the light of this· capacity that I writ<! today. I cannot impress upon you too strongly the urgency of this waming, which I hope none plans of those involved have been imagination to !'Ucss what the con- advanced to such a degree that un- tent of thut advi~e wns~ less strong and decisive steps are That few are aw~re of the dan- taken immediately the situation will be beyond redemption. ~Pr i~ demonstrated ciPnrly Pnough m the fact that last week's trans- The pattern is the same that has fe1 from advanced accounting; was been used many times before. First gt anted without question Ly the Of. gain access to the library's pur- lice uf the Dean. This cannot, how- chasing department and arrange ever, he allowed to happPn again,. for books of the Humanities Div.i- and I ~uggPst that in lieu of such slon to be the only ones on the an occurrence u committl'e he set order lists; then place a key· man up to make lo;ynlty checks on aH in the position of organist in order involved before any further sched- that all chapel programs are ule changes are granted. Only by To b!' hrief, it has come to this weighted with anti-bourgeois and combating fire with tlre will we be writer's attention that a rather anti-pure science music; and finally able to stand up against by what prominent member of an ad- spread the insid.fous propaganda of now W<' must crearly recognize as the Division via the word of divi- t h vanced acC\ounting class has trans- . a ~cnace o t e college community. will take lightly. · f d t th h . t f t s10n majors throughout the cam- Nor sh< 1 uld ... e be so foolt'sh as erre o e new 1s ory o ar '\ -course which is being offered by pus. This third step takes divers ~ 0 grant anyune the position of be• th D ·v· . . f H 't\ f t forms including such exigencies as mg ahovn -··usp1 ·c 1 • 0 n. It t's well e 1 1ston o umam tes, a ac d · ~ ~ of which many are aware and rawmg copies of well known known. for <'Xample, that corre- which a:; far as I can observe has cubist art onto men's room walls spondt•ncp has passed between the and insertion of footnotes in GrePk · caused little concern. This can, into EE lab manuals. gymnastum and Bailey Hall, and however, be partially excused since T t hnt men nnw find it difficult to I hese, of course, are onl,· thn a 1 of the facts have not been fi • r:o('llt\P towels thereby becoming brought to light until this writing. .rst moves in R long series of ac- dtscoutaged in their athletic en- Without them this. admittedly, ap- twns that are lr•ading to a dir<'ct dPA.Vors. Such things as this are pears to be innocent. overthrow of the Collegp·s quad- too neat to be mere coincidence r?~artite curriculum. It is an in- It is up to all of us then to be. 0 n Actually It is quite to the con- ctstve <'nough picturr of thr <'X- trary. I have proof in my pos• tent of the Humanities Division\s our guard. Watch whom people session beyond a ·question of a success to rep t th talk to, and be careful what you . · or at thP divi- yourself, SA.y to others. Keep your' doubt that this is only the symp- Stflnal ~hail'!nnn wets sPrn more schedule to yourself in order not to tom of a major effort on the part than tw1ce last we!'lc advising an d\ of the -Division of Humanities to undergraduate out~ide of thP of- tvu,lge the time when classes meet. capture literally the entire curricu- flee of the chairmnn of the Social Don t take things for what they ap- Ium of the college. Already the Studies Divi~ion. It takes· ll'ttle pear to be, and, above all else, be - ------------------ careful what you read. ------- -----------~~=-----~ Dromedary Facts Bared As a regular feat\Ul'e The Concordiensis will reprint each week items of interest culled from other student nl'wspapers by Alfred Siesel who is in ch1l.rge of om· exchange files. Articles will be sele.eted on the basis of their humor of their general appeal in the a:cademic world. Swarthmore, Phoenix, Swarth- more, Pa. \Letters to the Editor,. Shortly before vacation, two mE>n stood at the dining room door and handed one and all, includinf]; con- fi.rmed tobacco haters, a pack of cigarettes. Now, a <\onsidernble surplus of these are in Demmi£· Affleck's office and are flooding the school with their nauseating ashes. It is time, however, thAt thi.• damuabl~ fraud b!' rev,•aled f . \':hat it is. For not only are the~~ Cigarettes a clear-cut fraud h t the. presumption that th ,. · 11 t d e •>W:nth- more .s u ent would nr.t look th;ough the thinly-veilPd d•·l'l misrepresentation is \ 1 1 :\ 1 nte <l t f•;.Jll('abl( in~ult to the collective intelligence of the S\\arthmore campus. . Look closely at the pack through ~.t• hA.~PlitP ('ovrr. The word Camel 1 \ prominE>ntlv inscribed ~t tlw t\P· Below that -word there ts a piNt~ant desert scene, with htll<, palms, pyramids, and what- not \'C\ry prominPntly displayed in that dP,rrt 1 •• hum · . \ a rather large . ped ammal. Since the eye ptJr- ;etves only this animal and noth- Jn~ else ~or a whill', and over that ~~tmal .. IR disphtyPd the word t\ am;l. thP rC\asonable assump- tnn ts that the animal .is su - PMPd to represent p a camel. Fmud' :-.; h' from. th~ • _ot mg could be farther hPt of ve tt nth. In the large num- gluttin;,. athrs that Camels have been ~ e market 't · ('onreivahl ' I seems tn- t h · r that ROmeone didn't tell \tn tlw trutl c . did y t 1 · ertamly someone ·', \ production has not been '<I.tnged D l'b t t · · e 1 era te misrepresen- a -ton to the public. y Tth~hanim~J is inscribed \Camel\ \ t P ammal · t · ll'tmp H , PIC ured has one Pre s the \·atch 1 A · ) 0 ·1 R ( \\' h ~v • Camel . . o umps' Th . tutL·<I is t · e camel piC- no a camel, but is a dromeda1·y! And any member of the Zoo department <will back me up. . Camel <'igarettes must either change their wrapper design, or change the name of their product ~o \Dromedaries.'' As long as this 1s not done, no one should be de- ceived by the thinly disguised fraud of the smoke-blinded tobacco trusts. Sincerely yours, • Rudolph E. Hirsch, Norwich Guido!), Northfield, Vt. Notice·: A special cla.ss in instruction on · th~ use of the slide rule will pe held for about two or three hours a week duri:p.g a period of two weeks. ---o--~ Jobin Meyer, repll'esent~tive fo.i' Chesterfield Ciga-rettes, has .been authorized .to offer a cru.·ton Olf Chesterfield cigaret-tes to the Wliter, of the best letter to the editor each · month. Letters will be ,judged on range of iilterest and will not nec.essaii'ily indicate. the policy of 1Jh.e editors. Other contests, itt wthich • cat:tO!ns of Ohester.fields will ·be prizes; a.re nOJw tm.dm· conii!ideratioli. FRIDAY st~ Mt Engi Is it day b€ b-rave team? post? steel t mount' coal e: which your , winter I The! pit Wi the hl bunke into 1 the cc both c have J previo of the nee de• severe thew For read 1 the f, terest made are 23,500 Detro used. to th them. Che ested are i Tw Sci Pri the : U!}iOJ ing ~ son : Th1 recOI: Trus1 basis out Awa1 stani uppe are prize a wax Th unpl' ship! fresl seJ.ec ship, char Tl:J ship: :M:. ] win kins Ron: Hutc Nicl: Ster M: 01 FE ized is a has tion bers PI mai: eve I 6\-cl picl1 aS( deli' mai letb dail afte

1948 Baar te con- e dan- •nough trans- lg was .he or. ., how- again,. f such he set on l!J1 sched- nly by we be what .ize as mnity. ish as of be• ; well corre- ?t:l the , and ult to oming ic en- is are :nee. be on people t you, > your not to meet. ey ap- se, be 1er of :k me eithilr ·n, or ·oduct s thi~;~ >·e de- ~uised bacco ch. 1, Vt. Jn on· ill be hours two e for .been ll). o<f 'l'liter. 'each. Jd on I not ~Y of Which. ll be ation. FRIDAY,. OCTOPER 1. 1948 3 Steam Plant ,Brings Martian Era Closer ·Mountebanks Announces Full-Scale Production Launches Fund Drive Forum to Air Major Party Views on Engineer shoWn gazing at new equipment in college steam factory •. By DONALD GUERTIN The Petrified For€st, by Robert :Emmet Sherwood, will .be the first· full scale drama produced .by the Mountebanks this year, it was an- nounced by Mr. Jackson Davis. One of Sherwood's greatest suc- cesses, this play opened on Broad- way in 1934 with a .stellar cast in- cluding LesliE) Howard, Peggy ·Conklin and :f,!umphrey Bogart,: under the auspices of Gilbert Miller and Arthur Hopkins at the Broad-. hurst Theater. · Essenti-ally it is a play which strongly condemns our effete and futile culture. The leading charac- ter, Alan Squier, is one of the lost· generation of the twenties who sees no future in civilization and passes out of tl;re picture with a. sentimental gesture. Try-outs and casting for the· Petrified Forest will ·be held Mon- day and Tuesday evenings \at 7:30 .p.m. in Hanna Hall. Mr. J;>avis' has askild that those men who wish to try out for parts should fir!lt read the play, on reserve in the library, and come prepared to try for specific parts. .Wednesday ::i<.:henectady Fteedom Fut um wiJ.J pt~senl 1 t'J:1It:.-..t_'T1Liti\'t'-\\ t~f .politic~tl !J-tl.tiu. Ul l'nhJJl lulll'~:·· :\T·i>Tl10rinl -..:hapd on \\.t·{lr,t· .. d:ly, Ortohf'l' f1. · •t S:OO p.m. Orin Hoot. HPpuhhc:-~n · .. from Xt\N Ymk Ctty; Michat•l . ::>ttatght. Dt•lllt>ctat ftom \\':~~bing­ tun, D. C.; ;\;urman Thoma\. pn:;;i- dentia-1 canJiJatt\ of tlw Scwi:dist . Party; and a repre~entati\·e of the Progre~:<iVl' Patty will discuss the important issttl's facing voters in the -coming dc·ction. Chaplain C. Victor Brown \\ill be modctalor of the .program. Twp hundred tick!'ts am• avai1· .'1 hle fot· l'nion ~t udents free of ~hn rge at thP chaplain's office, · OliHiman Hall. Each of thf' speak- ers wi-1'1 pr<'sPnt a prcpated state- nlPnt on thP hasie canlpHi~n issues and nn~wer gPnentl que;;tiuns sub- mitted hy thP audit•nec• and the program commitlt•e. The di~cussion 'is scheduled to last a·bout two hou.rs. Fre·edorn Forum will present four other programs on campus this ·year. l'<ovember 16 the discussion will be \Du We l'<eed a Mohawk Valley Authority?\ January 19, ·1949 will feature Curd ~/[eyer, Jr., president of the World Fedemlists. Is it the bvidge of the New York boiler scale. The boiler house con- day baat? It is the stand of the tains a complete water condition- b:rave captain of Union's football ing plant which will demineralize team? Is it a.' forest rangers' out- and soften all watel' before it en- post? No, that mass .of iron and ters the boilers~ Professor Ewing steel that has been so recklessly ·of the department of chemistry is mounted on the boiler house is the later to make chemical tests for coal elevator and bunker through alkalinity and softness. which will pass your winter friends, Any inhabitants of smoky cities yoilr defense from Schenectady's ·needn't worry about a smoke nu~- winter nemesis, coal. sance on the campus. The large Less Buile1·s, M-ore Heat black billowy smoke ·clouds now Tentative plans for the year in· elude not only the Petri:ti'ed Forest, but also a Shakespearian drama, and another unannounced three- act play. Mountebanks also plans . to sponsor a freshman play and 'llarious other theatricaractivities. Robert Patterson, former seci:etary of war, shown as he ad- dressed throng at dinner which launched campaign to collect funds for additions and changes in the Union campus. Included in these additions will be a fiell;l house. in a forum on \Peace or Anarchy.\ ·On February 16, \Can the Standard of Living J3e Raised?\ will be the topic with D.r. \Volmnn ·represPnt- ing management and Russell Nixon and Vl'altcr Reuther representing labor. On March 30 the topic will be \Group Tensions-Democracy's Inner Disease.\ Besides these pro- grams, \Foreign Affairs and Rus- sia\ will be discussed at Mont Pleasant High School, October 20, ·by Vera Michaels Dean. These transients from the coal emena:ting from the stack will be pit will be brought by elevator to eliminated after the installation of the huge coal bunker. From this induced fan blowers which recently, bunker they will be fed by gravity arrived. into stokers which will transfer T-o Be Ready Soon the coal into the mouth of one or both of the modern boilers which The plant, which may be finished have replaced the four which were as early as November 1, will heat previously necessary. As it is, one all buildings on the campus with of these boilers will be all that is the exception of two on Lenox road needed, except for a few weeks of and four on Nott street. Among severe weather in the middle of those not heated will be the homes the winter. of Mr. Ripton and Professor Road- Vet Wives List Plans for Year The ··veterans' Wives Club of Union College will begin its 1948-49 WRUC Sees Best Year ,.Yet; Facilities Improved The purpose of Freedom Forum, an organization of civic minded Schenectady residents, is to provide opportunities for public discussion of both sides of controversial series of rneetings, lE:lctures, and· With completely renovated fa- • cilities, added office space and a social affairs on Thursday, October staff· including appro~imately 40 7, witl;l a gathering at the home of experienced men, the Union College Mrs.~Wilfred H. Ketz. radio station began its 1948-49 sea- For those engineers who may ley and the fraternity house of read this paper, if they have time, Delta Chi and Psi Delta Theta. the fo1lowing data should be in- James E. Lowe and Sons of Sche- teresting: The boilers are both nectady are the gene~:al contrac- made by Babcock and Wilcox and tors. The plumbing is being done are each capable of produCing ·by the A. J. Eckert Go. of Albany 23,500 pounds of steam per hour. and the electrical work by G. F. Detroit spreader stokers •are being Sauter and Son.. Burns and Rowe's used. This is, at least, o~ interest of J;il'ew York were the designing to those who used to hand fire engineers. Mrs. Irene Wood, president of son on a note of optimism. the organization, announced this week that over 200 invitations had According to Dave Crumrine, pro- been sent to veteran •and prospec-. gram man!).ger, WRUC \is looking toward:' its 'best year so. far.\ With tive memb!lrs of' the group. After a high degree of student partici- the initial session, meetings will be pation and campus interest alrE)ady held on alternat-e Wednesdays at the Ketz home with talks and re- obvious, Crumrine said, the station freshments augmenting the buai- should easily attain that goal. ness program. New Materials The group plans several social In preparation for current opera- them. T·his new heating plant is the No Boiler Scale first in a series of proposed projects functions for itself and its \male tions, much of WRUC's space in auxiliary,\ including a gambling Washburn Hall was redecorated night at Dewily Hall and probably during the summer months. Spa- several dances. cious new shelves for recordings Chemistry students will be inter- which will include a field house, a ested to know that these boilers ne•.v dormitory building and a new are two that will never develop library. Other officers include Mrs. Thel- were constructed along with addi- ma Nestle, vic-e-president, Mrs. tiona! storage and filing space. Audrey Milinka, secretary, and· To relieve other shortages which Mrs. Marie Male, treasurer. hampered activities in the past, Twelve Awarded Scholarships Prize scholarships will reward the scholastic achievement of 12 Union College students this com- ing year, President Carter David- son announced recently. The scholarships, awarded upon recommendation of the Board of T.rustees, are made strictly on the. basis of scholastic standing with- out regard to financial niled. Awards are being made to four out- standing men in each of the three Upper.classes at Union College ahd are accompanied by a financial prioo in addition to the honor award. The college has also awarded an unprecedented $17,400 in scholar- ships to members of the incoming freshman class. Recipients were sel-ected on the ba~;Jis of scholar- ship, extracurricular , actiVities, character, and need. The winners of the prize scholar- ships are John :E[. Auei, Jr., Allan M. Doyle, Robert R. Engisch, Ir- win Friedman, Thom.as L. Haw- kins, Jr., Douglas Charles :E[ebb, Ronald C. Hirschfeld; Irvin N. Hutchinson, Jr., Rialph H. Petrucci, Nicholas T. Saviano, Jr., Frank Stern and Charles N. Vallette. Mail Room in · Old ·Gym Dorm Featured in the newly modern- ized Union .College postal service is a mail room in Old Gyr.a which has six hundred private combina- tion-lock boxes serving the mem- bers of all dormitories. Providing service on incoming ma.il only, the new room is open every day from 12 noon until seven o\clock in the evening for. men to pick up mail from the boxes 'while a schedul-e ha!l been posted for the deiivery of parcels and registered mail The mail-room. wil! ~ceive letters from the postofftce .twice daily at noon and about 4 :45 in the afternoon. · Photogs Schedule Lecture Series WRUC also has taken over the room at the south end of the hall, Gl Cl b S • whiCh formerly housed the school's The Union College Photographic ee u Ings short-wave station, and h\as estab- Society will give a series of lee- At. KI.Ck•Off Mea} lished its personnel offices and fU- tures for beginners in photography, ing systems there, starting Monday, September 27, at. In addition, technical equipment seevn-thivty in the libr·ary of the Twenty members of the glee club including two new microphones attended the Field House \Kick- was purchased during the summer. Civil Engineering Building. The Off\ dinner last Saturday night. Crumrine estimated the value of Society will hold a short busines13 During the course :of the evening the station's mechanical materials meetfng, after which the lecture the boys sang the college songs and at a total value of approximately several other selections especially $20,000 last week, and noted that \How to devillop pictures\ .will be prepared for the occasion. more equipment is expected in the presented by Robert B. Schwartz. This was the· first of many ap-. course of the present year. P earances which the club will make Other minor improvements in- On October 11, Schwartz will pre- 1 d · · li 1 On the Ca mpus during the co-ming c u e new w1rmg, no eum desk- sent the second lecture in the Be- t · year including thr. ee evening con- ops and floors and repainting of gmners Series, ilntitled \How to th t d' certs and several Friday chapels. e s u 10s. make a contact print,\ and on October 25, the third and last lee- A full schedule is tentatively To Increase Schedule ture, \How to make an enlarge- completed for next spring. Under WRUC's current schedule calls ment\ will be given. The lecture. the direction of Mr. Elmer Tid- for a flexible total of 40 broadcast- Silries is especially designed for be- marsh and Mr. Robert Hicks the .ing hours each week. Although ginners by Eastman Kodak. gr.oup is learning the music to be· . most listed programs are aired be- used. At pref;lent there are four tween 6 and 12 p.m., daily except Lectures for advanced amateurs rehearsals: Tuesday, 7•8:30 p.m.; will be given on Qctober 11, Wednesday at noon; Friday at 4:30; \Graininess artd how to control it;\ and Sunday at 9 a.m. New men November 8, \The tone and· toning are invited to attend any and all characteristics of papers,\ Novem- of these meetings, There has been ber '22, \Filters for picture im- a record turnout for the: club this provement\ and on December 13, year. New members will not Qe ac:. \Kodachrome and Kodacolor.\ cepted after October 8, ---0--- Naval Reserve .naval reserve· unit a.t Scotia and there will be representatives of There will b.e a,mwy meeting in naval aviation at the meeting to Old Chapel at 7:30 p.m. on discuss the possibility of getting Wednesday, October 6, to outline to actual flying time through the undergraduates the opportuniti~s satellite air unit here. All vet- for them in .the naval reserve. Re- · erans who were in the navy, fresh- serve officers win be here to dis- men, . and sophomores are espe- cuss the training program of the cially invited to attend. · HOFFMAN SKATE LAND • Sat. & Sunday 2-5 F. M. SKATE Mon.• F1·L 7:30-11 P.M. • SKATE DANCiNG CLASS Mon. & Wed. 6:11)-7:45 P. M. For Car Troubles Sea a UNION MAN William H. Plath 601 ·Union Street AUTO SERVICE Bau•s Shoe Cleaners and Dyers Inc. RebuUders 633 State St. 204 Union St. PHONE 6-~456 Call Ball and Ball Will Call LANG.E & RAPP Pharmacy PRISCRIPTIONS .• \Service for the Stole\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET Sunday, Crumrine told the Con- cordiensis that plans are being considered for additional daytime and morning shows which will be announced later. All of Union's home football games are being handled by the station's sport staff, and several of the \away\ games are to be re- corded and broadcast to local stu- dents as soon after the games as possible. The station also plans to . broadcast a number of the \Free- dom Forum\ programs from the Chapel Wednesday evenings. Although an influx of new stu- dents has swelled the station's staff, Crumrine stated that all new- comers are welcome at WRUC, and that openings exist for technicians, controlmen, ·announcers, business men, sales workers, personrel workers, promotion men and live talent. Those interested may report to either Crumrine or Bob Hartwell, station manager. ---o--- Board of Mana~s Meeting Ralph M. Nestle and Albert Corbo were elected chairman and secre- tary, respectively, at the first meet- ing of the Board of Managers for the '48-'49 school year. David Mar- tin, Robert Hartwell, and Eugene Veh&lage were elected representa- tives of the board to the Student C.ouncil. FERRO'S RESTAURANT Go9d Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 1111 IARRETT STREET issues. PLACEMENT BUREAUU . . . ... Seniors are urged to go over to the Placement Bureau for an in- dividual interview as soon as pos- sible since company representatives will start coming to Union late .in October to interview job candid- ates. GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING U5 STATE ST.-Since 1898 WE KNOW YOU WILL .ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and En9raving Pens t.~nd the Finest Gifts Corner State and Center Sts. ·.

l I• i' I l : t . : ' I ~­ ·\' •! 1 1!; ' 'i I il , : it I li ';I II' ~' 1 1 ,f i 'i : j . I ! 4 STATISTICS Vnlon SLI.: l•'irst downs ....... , ......... 11 8 ~et yards gained rushing .... 248 80 ~et yards gained passing .... 27 73 Passes attempted . , ......... 12 16 Passes completed . . . . . • . . . . • . 3 5 Passes interPepted by........ 1 1 l\umbles .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . . 2 8 Balls lost fumbles . . . . . . . . . . 1 6 ft~!~age. ·cii·s·tarice · i:.f' ·pu~i;,:: 3~ a~ Runback of punts .. . . • .. .. . 30 72 Penalties .. .. .. .. . .. . . .. .. .. . 2 1 Yards lost penalties.... . .. . . . 20 15 0 :\lea~ureu from line of scrimmage. The Dutchmen looked good in every position. Whalen sparked the defense which was influential in causing the numerous St. Law- rence fumbles in the first half. Team morale is high as they leave today for the 42nd. Union-Roch- ester since 1889. However, they are not over confident. Rochester is still a tough team despite the 26-6 defeat by Amherst last week. Ro<'hester Tough A good comparison between the the Rochester-Amherst game would be difficult. Actually, th& Yellowjackets outgained the Lord Jeffs in yards, so the score is no real indication of their strength. Nevertheless Elmer H. Burnham, Rochester coach, is haunted by lack of reserves despite the 15 ex- perienced players on his squad. The team lacks depth in any posi- tion except guard, and injuries to key players might be disastrous. They still have the fast, light backs that ran wild against Union last year to cop an lS-13 victory for the Rivermen. This year the Dutchmen are ready to atone for that defeat. Probable starters for Union will be: RE Brisson, RT Mills, RG TenEyck, LG Schaffer, LT Abba, LE Cappola, QB Strauss, RH Wade. LH Best, FB Lundstrom. Union St. Lawrence RE Brisson .................... Maley RT :\fills ......................... Last RU Tengyck .................... Haley C Whalen ........ : ............. Keck FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Lacrossers Begin Preseason Training The Starzenski-tutored noggifl- knockers began their preparations for the spring offensive. this week. In o1·der not to interfere with the regular fall sports, and at the same time get in that vital preseason practice, the stickmen will do most of their practicing on the lawn between Washburn Hall and the library. No cleated shoes will be worn, \Star\ will stress three factors during the fall practice. These are, determination, excellent condi- tioning and lightning fast stick- work. Vic feels that if he can get his men in good condition and em- phasize the stickwork the battle will be half won. \Good stickwork and tireless aggressiveness cannot be resisted,\ will be the \non de guerre\ for. the stickmen through- out this season. To break the freshmen in, Vic will have last years varsity squad members workout with the frosh in small groups. LG Shaffer .................... Barron LT Abba .................. Shakshober LE Coppola ..................... Moro QB Strauss ...... , .............. Cioffi RH Wade ..................... Yannes LH Best ........................ Sacco FB Lundstrom .•............. Walters LTnion .................. 7 12 0 0-19 St Lawrence ............. 7 0 0 0-7 Touchdowps: St. Lawr€'nce, Maley; Unionn, Wade, Lundstrom, Spidel Points after touchdown; St. Lawrence, Barron (hy placement) ; Union, Snow (boy placement): SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNIT ED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4·5676 11<4 STATE Near FERRY SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY StRI&T CAMPUS CLASSICS ARROW OXFORD SHIRTS $3.95 ARROW TIES FROM .$1 \BROCKLEY\ \FENWAY\ FOR YEARS smart college dressers have preferred Arrow shirts. Once again we have a fine selection of Arrow Gordon oxfords in white and solid colors and several collar styles. ARROW University styled ties from $1. ---___,__ FOR ARROW SHIRTS ---_, I I APHA DELTA p~; to ZETA PSI ARROW GORDON OXFORD SHIRTS ARE FAVORITES OF COLLEGE MEN The NEW ARROW GORDON \FENWAY' 1 $3.95 For the first time · b f h . . smce e ore t e war, Arrow 1s offering a- wrde selection of w@t I'd _ I d . • e, so 1 co or an stnped oxfords m several collar mod 1 • II d . e s espec1a y es1gned for college men. Only Arrow sh' t h h f . lr s ave t e amous Arrow collar, Mitoga shaped-to.fit body d S f ; d I b I on an onze a e , assurance of less than 1% shrinkage. Arrow ties-$1 to $2.50. ARROW lll . . . . :)> SHIRTS and .TIES UNDERWEAR • lfANDKERCHIEFS<) • SPORTS SHIRTS ________________________________ ; FRIDt! ., __ They ~ez:r a~ It IS. ; Lawrer the Ah in the l off Dh day nii we got got 'spi good, t chapel Why chap elf h~J.pha2 basis? little see yo and th .afterm go out Satur~d And t brothej for lov The ing a footbal 0 But I attend their I= Go in but to stand nounc£ little ll I like surprif never asked and ta I ~ Laugh all str: ward 1 with a it diff! of th£ team l their 1 game) sat pr' CRC ~I ability en com The held VI in 194 out a Catarr they c minut en com tains. Bac ber OJ first e and 1 perfor New!~ 'Belan, fine I= are E one o beatiiJ flfteer. in Ia Renss Brigh outsta squad stude1 Mace I 2(

1, 1948 ga;me o have a edges out. eir sea- against meets p.m. Council of the ort has at tb:e coach backs Cap- Ind. on the an in the ctor of on ootball Juiuor on of ut the is oppo- pla.y the .) The terms ) St. diocre get- a t!'io last of , and rd to Both ) f,RIDAY, OCTOBER 1. 1948 LOOSE ENDS by HERB SAXE They're off in the third postwar year at Union. And what a start it is. The Dutchmen lambasted St. Lawrence on Alexander Field and the Alumni started the ball rolling in the Fieldhouse drive at the Kick- off Dinner at Hale House Satur- day night. Man! Oh, Man! Have we got spirit and drive, or have we got spirit and drrve? It all looked good, that rs untll we all went to chapel on Monday noon. Why is it that all the athletic chapels have to be run on such a haphazard, \corne as you are\ basis? Don't our athletes deserve a little better than \peek-a-boo I see you' recogmtlon? McLaughry and the team are out there every afternoon sweatin' and strainin' to go out and get manhandled every Saturday aftern<:Jon for eight weeks. And they're doing it for love, brother, believe me they're doing it for love! The big thing is, that they're do- ing a damn good job of playing football. Come Now to the Chapel But like all good Union men, they attend chapel every Monday to get their pomts. Gomg to chapel rs bad enough; but to be asked to \come up and stand m the corner until the an- nouncements are over\ is just a little kmdergartenish. That's what I like about chapel. It's always 'a surprise to everyone there. You never know when you may be asked to come up to the podium and take a bow. I greatly liked Coach Mc- Laughry's informal talk. It was all straight \dope\ in a straightfor- ward manner. But even the coach with all his athletic prowess found it difficult to hang over the edge of the rostrum and identify his team by the bumps on the backs of their heads (received in Saturday's game), while the blaclt-robed choir sat primly on the stage. Just what CROSS COUNTRY (Continued from Page 4) ability due to several bad breaks encountered during the season. The last time a duel meet was held with the Vermonters was back in 1946 when the Dutchmen eked out a 23-24 win. Last season the Catamounts weN! scheduled, but they called off the meet at the last minute due to training difficulties encountered in the Green Moun- tains. Belanger Team Captain Back again this year in the num- ber one spot is Newt Culver, who first earned his block \U\ in 1944, and has consistently been a top performer on the track since then. N-ewly elected team captain Don Belanger is expected to repeat his fine performance of last year, as are Bob Garlock, who turned In one of hrs best performances by beating out the R.P.I. oaptain by fifteen yards to capture first place in last year's duel meet with Rensselaer, Don Wright, Don Brightman and Fred Steigert. Two outstanding newcomers to the squad are Abe Lakeskm, a transfer student from Champlain, and Tom MacCoun. function the choir has at an letic assembly wasn't made quite clear. They had to call on some esteemed members of the Class of '52 to get any \singing\ done. All this time the football team were standing in the corner like bad lit- tle boys. Hurrahs for Heroes :A:side from Coach McLaughry's short talk, the only other brrght spot on the agenda was the ovation the team reecived from the rest of the student body. The cheer was well deserved. The Dutchmen have a football team to be proud of. As I remember it there was an- other' such debacle last year. It too concerned the athletes. What I said then can be said again. If our athletes don't mind bemg made fools of on a semi-annual basrs who am I to grrpe? But I do feel that it is rather a fruitless gesture to build for a future fieldhouse and then forget what our athletes are domg today. We need a fleldhouse in the worse way; but let's not forget the pres- ent in our anxiety for the future. Poorly Plailned If our athletes ever went out on the field With as little planning as went into Monday's chapel, thmr defeat would be assured. I don't know who runs the chapel pro- grams. It isn't Important. I do know that chapel programs on the order of last Monday's are an in- sult to everyone's intelligence and are a disgrace to the college and her athletic representatives. I can do no mare than gripe about a lousy srtuation. It is up to the student council to see that there are no more repeats of this ill-planned nature. Give credit where credit is due, in a maJ:.lner befitting the re- cipients. -------10--- 0ur Mistake • It has been called to our atten- tion, by an irate Neil Van Allen, that Fred Wyatt is not the com- manding officer of the Naval Re- serve Training Group in Scotia . Having been figuratively caught with \our slip showmg,\ we apolo- gize, to both Messrs. Wyatt and Van Allen, and any other of you who detected our error. Fred Wyatt is the training. offi- cer of the Organized Surface Divi- sion 3'-~3 of the Naval Reserve. Lieut. Commander S. E. Johnson, Jr., is commanding officer of the unit. Previews and Reviews LAST WEEK Amllel'st ...... 20 Rochester .... 6 Mlddlelnu.y .•.. 81 H()bart ...... 9 Union ......... 10 St. La wren co . 7 St. Michael's 18 Vermont .... 2 WDllams ...... li Norwich ...... 0 THIS WE·E:K Alleghany at Hamllt(}ll H.obart at Buffalo l\Iiddlebury at Bates RPI at Alfred Trinity at Williams Unlon at Rochester Verm011t at St. Lil.wrence THE FINEST IN RECORDED MUSIC R. C. A. Victor Columbia Decca Capitol Featuring The NEW LONG PLAYING COLUMBIA RECORDINGS Roberts Piano Company 203 State Street Corner Ferry Street GAZETTE PRESS Frosh Gridders Hold Scrimmage With Varsity; Boganski. Grabsky Look Best $----------~------------ Coach Pete Nistad got the first glimpse of his freshmen gridders in action last Monday alternoon as he sent them against the members of the varsity who saw limited service in the 1St. Lawrence victory last week. Playing only\ on the defensive, the frosh managed fairly effectively to throttle the varsity attack In the iatter stages of the ·scrimmage Since this was their first test under game conditions, the neophyte::; ap- peared rather nervous at the start. Center Ed Boganski and tackle \Red\ Grabsky were particularly impressive for the Ni.\;tadmen. The yearlings' mentor sent about half of his 41 man squad into action. The freshmen open therr season one week from tomorrow when they play the Morrisville :Aggies on the latter's field. Bob Fmholt, chemistry professor, is assisting Nistad in coachmg the fresh eleven. Phil Fenester is the student man- ager. Intramural Football Off To Big Start Library Field Center For Grid Battles Eight fraternity teams inaugur- $ ated the Fall intramural program Delta Phi defeated Delta Chi, Tuesday with four touch football 13-0. contests on Library Field. The tournament is of the e1imi- The results as announced by Art natwn var1ety anrl each team n1u:st Lawrence, intramural director, were as follows: be beaten twice before It is elimi- 5 UNION COLLEGE FALL SPORTS SCHEDULE VARSITY FOOTBALL Sept. 25 Oct. 2 Oct. 9 Oct. 16 Oct. 23 Oct. 30 Nov. 6 Nov. 13 'St. Lawrence Rochester Vermont \R.P.I. Hobart *Wrlliams. 1 Middlebury Ham1lton .Asst. Mgrs.: Martin J. OMeara Francis R. Taormma Coach, John J. McLaughry 'Home games 2:00 p.m. VARSITY SOCCER Oct. 2 *Williams Oct. 15 R P.I. Oct. 20 Champlain Oct. 27 *Syracuse Nov 6 \R.P.I. Nov. 13 'Champlain Coach: Franz Gleich •Home games 2:00 on Council Freid. SCOREBOARD p.m. played (Continued from Page 4) VARSITY CROSS COUNTRY Oct. 9 Vermont Oct. 16 *R.P.I. Oct. 23 Colgate Oct. 30 *Williams Nov. 6 *Middlebury Nov. 15 I.C.A.A.A.A. Captain: Arthur R. Belanger Manager: John F. Hanna Coach: Wilford H. Ketz *Home Meets. FRESHMEN CROSS COUNTRY Oct. 16 *R.P.I. Oct. 30 *Williams Nov. 6 *Middlebury Nov. 15 I.C.A.A.A.A. Coach: Wilford H. Ketz *Home Meets FRESHMEN FOOTBALL Oct. 16 Morrisv1ll11. Oct. 23 'R.P.I. Nov.· 6 Williams Coach· Peter J. Nistad *Home Game nated. Because of this, Mr. Law- Phi S1gma Delta defeated Sigma renee Will not formulate a definite Phi, 21-0. of TJUy H1gh School, wh1le Witt- schedule. ner hails from Nott Terrace. was nearly lost for the season as a result of an auto accident this summer. - Mule Haas, .500 hitting 1st baseman while playing at Union in '47, will undergo an a.rm opera- tion this winter.. Mule had a good year this season while playing fol' Waco, Texas in the Texas State League. Psi Ups11Ion defeated Sigma Chi, Odds and Ends 6-0. Defending the all-sports trophy Beta Theta Pi Defeated Kappa Alpha, 18-6. A1:my on December 18, has been they won last year 1s Phi Gamml!_ added to the 16 g-ame basketball Delta fraternity. schedule. - Halfback George Best 11 Entertalnlng is so easy when your guests like what you like. And a favorite of mine that my friends like too is Schaefer Beer. They all agree with me that it's the finest they ever tasted! 11 Fact is, most folks like Schaefer so much fhey buy it in quarts- for convenience, for economy. Try it. ,, 'f~r~9 ~~tlct ~~~!H says ANN RUTHERFORD Feature Star of the Films Printers ~-~\\ ~ ..... _,. ••••• .....,.._-.,....._~...,... ............... ,_ • .....,\\\\\\\\\*'\'\-\•\ -w._.. . ., ... -J..J The F. & M .Schaefer Brewing Co •• N.Y.

I i ~ -\ ! I; 1 ' l: i ~ I ~ ' 'I 'I t l i' l Jq, ··I, \ I 1! r· ' I i. I. !· i I' I I [· I I 6 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1. 1948 - ----~-------~-------~~----~--~~------~ ·~ ~~Fortune'' Poll Shows KN Gets Berg Cup; Odd Reason for College TT S v~.e Phi Sig Second • • p ll v. • D'll ec t on Scientists The Berg Scholarship Cup, insti- Ed u c a t l.O n l n . 0 . . The October . issue of. \Fortune\ contains an article on our American scientists that ~':t~eed ~~a~ 1 !f bfh~r:E~~~r~~~· ~~~1:. lS absoluif:ly required readmg for anyone who pretends interest in the future of our world neering department of Union Col- In a recent poH taken at Southern Illinois University in most p~rtl.cularly f~r those 'Yho are planning to be scientists themselves. For those of yob. lege, is awarded to that fraternity Carbondale, Ill., the popular conception of what attracts who wlll never read the article, we present an inadequate paraphrasis which has the highest scholal'ship students to certain colleges and to colleges in general were Small ·but Vital • • average each year. By an amaz- blasted into the dust. • Scientific wor•kers num·be·r· lea~ ingly intricate system of oompu- • · = · · t t t f As the figures for Southern are . than one percent of the .populati'on, sCience ln. he physical and bio- ing scientist, but an adml'instrator. a ion which makes allowance or h t A group of ~o<>J students· 34 1 · I presented compare them with w a ! · • · • ~- . • • per but few fractions are more import- oglCa sciences could be assembled Nor, save in industry are many those men in the fraternity with a k • f Union and decide cent, m fact, said that they Wished ant. Here i.s what our scientists in one large hall, and these doctors pensions offered any more. 4.000 average or better, the cup was yo: th n.o':r 0 not Union men are· to get a college education for the are like. are the ones who are truly our What makes a scientist, If not awarded 1ast school year to Kappa ;ffe e\ pursuit of knowledge for its own The profession of science is our scientists. money;' Two-thirds of our top one . Nu. Phi Sigma Kappa, the run- 1 o~:n of 200 first year students sa·ke. Anot~er. 31 per ?ent 'V\'anted youngest. It is in a state of tre- Demand aad inflation ·have great- per cent of undergraduates before :ners-up, actually scored higher in .polled at Southern, only one (1), to stay w1thm the IVY covered .pe·r cent said they wen t ere o · · · - •· P r . mendous growth, and because of ly improved scientists' salaries. Re- the war, the men who could sue- all over fraternity average, but t h t wal.Js and teacl 1 Twenty thvee e this and the state of the world, it cent graduates are offered their· ceed at anything;, were going into. ~appa Nu took the cup easily with school beca:use of Southern's excel- ce.nt turned out as esthetes who is in a crisis most nearly parallel .pick of several j.obs, and industrial the physical sCiences. Men still eight men who had better than a lent basketball team. Evidently. Wished. to go _to coll~ge to learn to to the general crisis. \ivo1·y-hunters\ comb the campuses. turn down more ducrative positions four p.oint aver?-ge, Un·ion men look for finer things ap . .Pr,ec?m,te hfe more fully, At The scientist is the figure of our Top grade scientists start at $5000 to enter science. Lowest ranking fraternities were because how many Union students · Milo s . age. It is he who makes our era a year, rise rapidly, and may reach Radicalism Pays Phi Delta Theta and Delta Chi. We came here for the same reason?, _The \cou~try club\ set who different from the preceding ages. $50,000. In government, they start Probably the best explanation is; will make no editorial comment' By far the largest group, 80 per Wishe? ta. Improve their social The scientist is but three centuries at $ 3: 500 move up Sl(\Wly, and rarely the fre!ldom for the constructive here. cent, said they chose Southern be- standmg could on!Y: muster 13 per old, and did not appear in any go above $lO,OOO. In colleges, In- use of the mind on the material Companion piece to the. Berg Cup cause it was close to home. With cent. They. were JOmed by several great numbers or as a distinct class structors may go as low as $2,000, world. This is the· reason most is the Garis Cup, awarded by Dean. Union's vast enrollment, ta:ke a conglomerate grol.IPS such as the until last century. Ye these new move still mol·e oolwly, and are not scientists name. Science is the only Garis to that dormitory ranking look at how few live out of atom two pel' cent that came to college men have undeniably changed our lik'ely to get above a top of $8.000. profession that encourages radical highest. The scores are computed bomb radius of Library Field. to find a mate, the three per cent temporal world more than anything In the past few years, professors thought, and it reserves its highest in the same way. This cup was And an·other 62 per cent claimed who came for the social life, th.e before. of the physical sciences have done honors for such thought. won by North College, with Seneca they went to Southern because it three p:r· cent who. came ~because a This creates t two-part crisis for a little better, but there are no Because of this fondness for Lodge sec;:ond. \is not too expensive\. Answer that boy friend_ or g1r} friend had · d th · t' t F' t · more than a dozen top university freedom l'ttl · k 1 lf (Southern IS co ed) and a oth science an e sCien IS s. 1rs IS , 1 e 1s nown n a Last year's student average was one yourse . - n er th h · 1 · f scientists eaning as much as ~14- c' t'fi b t th · · four per cent wh f e ·p ysiCa cnsis, .o manpower, OOO. 'i' • s 1en I c way ·a ou e or1gms and 2.529, or somewhat better than a The students were then asked to · O· came or the money, and national policy. The gl'oup patterns of scientists. Science· gentleman's grade. The non-frater- check the three most important athletics. second is a psychical crisis of in- Academic Crisis is a young man's profession. The nity men had an average of 2.536, factors influencing their decisions Our heart really goes out for the tellect, morale, faith, freedom, the The universities are in a crisis average peak of the creative years ·while the fraternities averaged to go to college. Some of the an- minority group, who wiJl. PI'obably crisis shared with all thinking men of their own. Academic salaries of a scientist comes at 32. Mathe- 2.520, which goes to prove' some- swers are highly informative. A be persecuted throughout their col, today. have risen barely twenty-five per- maticians tend to bud -e~rly, physi- thing that eludes us at the moment. solid 5'7 per cent of the students lege career merely because they Acute Shortage cent, the academic part of our na- cists, come later, and biologists, listed as one of their reasons that are a minority-that five per cent There Is at present an acute tional research budget is actually who have to do a lot of patient they wanted to \prepare for a who said_ thy came because they shortage of scientists, sharpest in shrinking. To keep alive, colleges observation, are at their most pr.a- vocation: other than teaching.\ Re- had nothmg better to do. some branches, lilre physics and have been forced to take on indus- ductive in later life. Pre-Med Meeting acUonaries! Another big one (1) o·~-- mathematics, greater Ln basic re- trial and military research pro- Physicist-mathematicians occupy per cent said that one of the main. PATTERSON ON R 0 T C search than in applied or industrial grams, some against the whole the top cultural group, coming The first meeting of the Pre-Med- reasons for coming to college was When interviewed before the research. This shortage is wide- spirit of education. Enrollments from middle class and professional leal Society, held in the Biology to join a fraternity. Communists! Kick-Off Dinner last Saturday, for- spread and unique in our history, a have doubled; teaching staffs have families, reading widely very earjy, building Iaet Tuesday, showed that The capitalists crashed through mer .Secretary of War Robert P. product of our draft policies and risen only 43 percent. Formerly, are early familiar with abstract a large number of the students with 36 per cent desiring a. college Patterson '12 stated that a military our p<mtwar expansion of scientific the academic compensations have ideas, have a mar~ed taste for were interested as there were over education so that they could earn training unit at Union would be a research. It has been estimated held teachers to the campus, but classical music, and are the most 'go undergraduates .present. The more money while 39 per cent said us~ful addition to .the campus, Mr. that our losses due to foolish draft- now the gap is too great, and the roundly literate and politically group elected the progra.m com- that one .af the main reasons for Patterson, who has long favored ing will amount to 40,000 bachelors younger men are being drawn conscious, leaning toward the radi- mittee for the coming year and a:lso coming to college was because the establishment of an ROTC unit of science and 7,600 doctors of away. cal, voted on an amendment to the con- their parents. wanted them to. at the College, commended the in- science, So ·no one can e:&pect to get rich Chemists come fl'Dm small towns, stitution, which stated that the There's an old· saying that a ma:n terest of the students in the ROTC ~ '\ o e ·or . po a en rccen y and prom- There al ·e only some 140,000 pe~ 1'n the sci'ences. He w1'll not earn from petit-bourgeois parents who members must be present at 70\'- wants hi's son to go to c lleg f 1'n a 11 t k tl pie engaged in research, develop- as much as a doctor, lawyer or en- are ambitious for their children. of the meetings of the semester in one of two reasons: (1) because itied to give his full support to ob- ment' and teachl ·ng of sci'ence l·n gl'neer of equal· competence. The They are better organizers, less· .order to remain in good standi'ng. he went or (2) because he d'd 't t . . 't f , 1 n ammg a um · or the College if this country. A fifth of these hold industrial scientist who reaches imaginative, and tend to be con- The motion was passed. .go. it is requested. doctor's degrees. All .our doctors of $50,000 is rarely any longer a work- ----------'-------;_ _______ ::__.:_~.---------~=--------------~~~~~~~::__ _______ _ Union Plans For Class of '53 lndependtmt and frat ern it y • groups will be contacted during the coming month so that they may inform the admissions office of any prospective students whom they would care to invite to the sub- freshman weekend being held on Uni·on's campus on December 10, 11, and 12. Also in preparation for this event J. Harold Ripton, Director of Admissions, is visiting schools of the New England and Middle Atlantic States and Richard Balch wil lbegin visiting New York State high and prep schools about No- vember 15. Other trips are .planned for January and February of next year to cover the Mid-West. Already numerous applications have been received by the admis- sions office pertaining to registra- tion for the class of '53. Any sug- gestions from the student body or faculty concerning the various ap- plicants would b~ grPBtly appreci- ated. T h e s e recommendations should be sent to the admissions office. AlEE Meeting The A.I.E.E. will hold its first meeting of the current semester WednesdRy, October 6. at 7:00 p.m. in Room 22 of the E.E. building. As guest speaker, the committee has invited D. S. Roberts, Assist- ant Managl'r of tech nlcal p~rsonnel at the General Electric CompRny, to give a speech and answer ques- tions. The formal meeting will follow Mr. Roberts' speech and social functions for the year will be dis- cussed. New members to the club will also be admitted at this time, All E.E. students are invited. The meeting will be brief to en- able students to attend the Free- dom Forum .. ---0·--- Dewey ''Back In\- <Continued fr~m Page 1) to conservatism,' ·especially if the total Republican popular vote should be less than in 1944. Such a result might indicate a wide, spread lack of enthusiasm for any of the candidates, or perhaps complete conficence concerning the outcome.\ Other talks in the series to be presented on successive Thurs- days in:dude \The International Implications of the 1948 Elec- tion,'' by Samuel S. Stratton; \The Democratic Platform and Candidates\ by Dr. William M. Murphy; \The Republican Plat- form and Candidates,\ by Dr. Benjamin P. Whitaker; \The Pro- gressive Party and Candidates,\ by Dr. Arthur K. Davis, and \A Luo-k at the Results,'' by Joseph Rotundo. Universal Solvent <Continued from Page 1) grate the lead after a six- month exposure to the rays. After severe and exhaustive tests carried out throughout the summer, it was found that as the element grew stronger and more radioactive under the coffee ray bombardment, it be- came more destructive. When it finally became apparent that the element was a universal solvent, the FBI and the AEC were called in and the UE was banned from the Physics De- partment. The discovery of this uni- versal solvent, long sought by scientists, now poses a great question for the Physics De- partment. The student body will be polled in chapel next week for ideas· on what the Physics Department can use as a container. It is reported that the Soviet government has been dickering with Bill South, Hale House steward. Play Festival on Oct. 30 Union College \Mountebanks\ will be host to the drama societies of five colleges at a \piay festival,\ Saturday, October 30. The idea of an annual drama fesltival origin- ated at Russell Sage last fall to awaken dramatic and critic inter- est. Each group will present a one- act play, during th_e !l-fternoon or evening performances. The plays are produced with particular em- phasis on acting ability. Settings and props are deliberately scanty. The company will hold an in- formal critlqe session after the evening per-formances, followed by a dinner in Hale House. The speaker for the occasion has not yet been announced. Mountebanks will present for the festival, \The Last of My Gold Watches,\ by Tennessee W!lliams. The cast are: Charlie, Bob Miller; Harper, Bill Herrman; Bellhop, Steve Engquist. Two special per- formances will be presentell. Friday evening, Oct. 29, for the student body .. The performances Saturday are free, but students will not be given preference in seating. The first regular Mountebanks production will be \The Petrified Forest,\ by Robert Sherwood, scheduled for sometime late in the fall. ---10•--- Speeial Class Elections A special election for student council vacancies in the sophomore and junior classes will be held Monday, October 11. Nominating petition for candidates for these offices must be delivered to the student activities office by October 6. A motion proposing appoint, ments of the two council ·members by the council itself was defeated. Elections for vice president, sec, retary and treasurer of the senior, junior, and sophomore classes will be held Monday, October 25. ''I enioyed many a CHESTERFIELD on the set of my new picture, GOOD SAM. Chesterfield is always MILD ••• It's fM cigarette.~~ er {}'~ STARRING IN /V'- LEO McCAREY'S ~ ~ MU~ABC GIRL of D.C. L.A. says- u I smoke Chesterfields because I like the clean, white appearance of the pack and their clean, smooth, MILDER taste. ' 1 GOOD SAM AN Rli.O RELEAS'E Val. p A 11 Tl Fort seas - ber Uni< Cha PreE whit Str2 and cipa publ gres resp Bro' con the· Th was mer now .who the and; ly. crati was most laws rem~ gain1 of l achic lar Ame peac moCl sertE Dem the: out· ~en· 1 imm Ml prac civil dent of G opje· both ing the olaix is ti sincr his only the iter~ aski polic pea< It \ by : Hja' and are fasc aidi: ... effe par• (an the 38 l phy lish ·Sull For pry Cot r; sou oftc tha the ma Pet ruiJ tiel ). ser the fee Hel ord tiv1 ne3

1948 dty in ;tracts were 34 per wished for the ts own wanted ~overed vee per as who earn to ly, At t who social 13 per several as the college ei· cent ife, the cause a td had a:nother for the for the 1•obably teir col~ ;e they er cent 3e they (J re the ay, for~ bert P. uilitary ld be a us, Mr. favored rc unit the in- ' -ROTC i prom- : to ob- llege if - tS Founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 76, No. 4 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1948 PRICE 1'0 CENTS Politicos· Wallace Backers Perform . :v· A1r ·. ·Iews In Forum The Schenectady Freedom Forum opened its 1948-1949 · season on. Wednesday, Octo~ · ber 6, with .a discussion at the Union College Me moria l Chapel on \The Issues of the Presidential Campaign,\ in which Oren Root, J·r., Michael· Straight, Emmanuel H. Blo~h, and Norman Thomas parti- cipated in behalf of the Re ... publican, Democratic, Pro- gTessive, and Socialist parties, respectively. Dr. C. Victor Brown, chaplain of Union , College, acted as moderator of the· program. Ends to Be Worked for The formal part of the program was opened by Mr. Stra,ight, a for- mer State Department official and now an editor of New Republic, Members of a Carav!IJl for Wallace, above sing lustily on the steps of Washburn Hall about high prices, lack of housing and other issues pushed by the Progressive party. Students, attracted by the music, approached warily, lest they be seen listening to liberal utterances. George Zopf, Union student, speaking f1•om an independent viewpoint, advised students to acquaint themselves with the Progressives' platform before forming opinions. Pemrick and Killian Battle for Office . who asked that the audience ignore the personalities of the campaign and try to examine the issues clear- ly. He admitted that the Demo- cratic p:wty has made mistakes, but was nevel'theless responsible for most of the liberal and progressive laws .now in operation. Mr.'Straight remarked that it is time for further gains in legislation, and the party Student Council election will be conducted during the of FDR is the logical one to regular chapel meeting Monday, October 11, when a president achieve them. 'Two ends in particu- and secretary will be ~hosen and gaps in class representation Jar must be worked for, namely filled. Freshmen balloting for temporary officers will also American le;3.dership towards world peace and the strengthening of d~ take place. mocracy at home. Mr. Straight as- Ballots will be issued attached to I . · I serted that the liberal wing of the the chapel cr.edit slips, a device cal- . Games on WRUC Democratic party gained control at culated to insure a full, even, and the 1948 convention and by driving :.expidited distri,bution! after which out the .Southern reactionary ele- presidential candidates Dave Kil- ment has strengthened the party !ian and Jim Pemrick, secretarial 1 immeasurably. candidates Kenneth Mciver and Mr. Bloch, the next speaker, Is a Edward Karsky, and other nom- practicing ~attorney specializing in inees for office will be briefly in- civil rights cases and, while a stu- troduced by Election Chairman dent at Columbi•a, was a classamate John Di Bello. The entire pro- of Governor Dewey. He called for cedure is not expected to consume opjective thinking with a view of more than the allotted twenty both sides of every issue, proclaim- minutes, despite the heavy attend- ing his faith in the intellgence of ·ance anticipated ·for these import- the American people. Mr. Bloch ant elections. claimed that the present campaign The candidates for the various of-. is the most important of its kind fices will not actively campaign; a since 1932 and noted further that fact which will result in a serious his party, the Progressive, is the lack of enlightening publicity that only omi taking a clear stand on such campaigns bring out, along the issue of war or peace. He re- with high-jinx and hullabaloo. iterated the war issue in his talk, Therefore, to avoid in some meas- asking whether the present U.S. ure the sterility inherent in a vote policy is being used to achieve that merely chooses between names, peace or to destroy a ·rival nation. a brief introduction of each of the It was Mr. Bloc):J.'s contention that rival candidates for the presidency by acquitting such individuals as is given. Both Jim Pemrick, and Hjalmar Schacht, Alfred. Krupp, Dave Killian are men of excellent and lisa Koch of war cr1mes, we ·character; both are adequate for are handing Germany back to the the office they seek. ·Both have. fascist elements which we are also been elected to office by the gen-' aiding in China, Greece, and Spain. eral constituency, ·then further (Continued on Page 4) (Continued on Page 4) States Positi~n Station WRUC will carry a. play-by-play description of the Union-Vermont football game tomorrow, coming by direct wh·e from Bm·lington beginning at 1:30 p. m., although the game proper will not begin until 2. The preceding half hour will be taken up with music and the starting lin~ups reported by Albert Raber and Willlam Por- ter, co-directors of •the WRUC Sports department. This arrangement was made necessary by the discontinuance of such broadcasts by a local station because of the ·expense and low listener response. The present plan, made to correct last week's oversight, waiil made possible through the support of the student tax committee which is shouldering the financial end. The proposal is to continue this series of broadcasts, provided the listener 1•esponse wanants it, a fact which will be verified by a spot check to be made d1ll'- ing this week's airing. In order to provide the off- C!!-mpus students with facilities to hear the game, WRUO has installed a loudspeaker in Hanna Faculty Council Cold To ROTC Unit Here The faculty turned a cold .shoulder t.oward a Reserve Corps program at Union College in an informal discussion ·in the office of Carter Davidson, president of the college. Officers Training Tuesday afternoon Cites Need For Stability Although no official a.ction was taken by the council, little doubt was left they would formally oppose attempts to form a military training program here. Two divisions· were open- ly opposed to an ROTC unit, while two others remained doubt- ful that mHitary training would be of advantage to the col- lege. · · American economic stability is a major foreign issue Samuel S. Stratton, former executive secret tary of the Far Eastern Commis- sion, declared ·in his talk \The In• Reasons Why ~·--------------~ In addition to faculty opposition, Th· . omas Rt.ps an ROTC unit appeared unlikely for several reasons indicated by ternational Implications of the 1948 . Election\ given Thursday during · Union College assembly. Mr. Davidson. No application has been made ·Opposi·t.·on to the government by the col- . · · lege for such a unit. The de- cision to apply is in the hands . of the Board of Trustees, who Mr. Stratton, who is lecturing in would not so act, Dr. Davidson philosophy while Professor Stanley pointed out, unless the proposal is on leave, professed himself, in was supported by the entire faculty. this second in a series of election In addition, the president quoted background lectures, to be a demo- from a conversation he held with crat who now could say what he former Secretary of War Ro.bert Below are quotes from state- ments made by Norman Thomas, Socialist candidate for the presi- dency, in an intervliew Wednes- day by Martin Siegel, Concordi- ensis staff reporter, at Hotel Van Curler, Schenectady. thought after leaving diplomatic Patterson, ·who said, \No new units, \Everyone who doesn't vote. for work. In ~alyzing the present sit-. (ROTC) have been assigned for Dewey is in the narrow sense uation he noted that foreign na- some time by the government, and throwing away his vote. Too many tions are watching the coming elec- there is no prospect of any being people in America would rather tion and they are especially con- assigned for some time.\ ride a bandwagon to hell than walk cerned about the economic policies About the program itself, Pres!- to heaven.\ ·of the new administration. He also dent Davidson considered it worth- \Truman didn't lead the country presented the apparent paradox of while to mention the fact that, con- anywhere-he doesn't know where the campaign in which both major trary to ideas prevalent on the he's going. He's like Stephen Lea- parties are not making an issue out campus, such a unit would not cock's hero-going in all directions. of the fact that among our foreign benefit any student now on campus He could lead the country to some- policies are some of the gravest as far as deferment was concerned. thing if he's around long enough.\ problems facing our nation. It would only be of. benefit to enter- Of Th D . omas ewey, \He has been Republicans have stated that for- ing freshmen, as the program is a all things to all men.\ eign policy is a major domestic four year proposition. Present de- t \My objection to Wallace is his issue but have been vague as o ferments are vague as the Selective any other definite proposals. This Service board is still in the process double standard. His platform is th t very insincere; it is written to led Mr. Stratton ,to point out a of drawing up categories of those campaign oratory is no indication to be deferred. However, there are catch votes, but they did forget a few things. Wallace calls himself of what will happen in this coun- prospects for deferment of all stu- h a 'progressive capitalist'; his back- try's policy towards ot er nations. dents until the completion of their ers are called communists.\ \I con- He cited as example the fact that second year. Mr. Dewey has on two different oc- fess, I'm surprised at the way Wal- casions stated that he favors a Faculty Objection · lace's votes are falling.\ tougher attitude towards Soviet In relation to the faculty objen- \I never speculate publicly on the Russia and also that he WO'ud try tion to the ROTC, possible reasons vote I will receive, but we do ex- , to establish peace. On tl)e other for this resistance were brought up. pect the biggest vote since 1932. We hand nothing has been mentioned Primarily, the faculty opposes the socialists are much more in the about the MarshalL Plan whether plan because of the interference be- running today than we have been more or less money should be ap- tween such a program and aca- for years, although we won't be on propriated, or abD'ut a federation of demic studies. It has been men- the ballot in as many states as in European lands by duress or other- tioned that a military training pro- '32 because of a tightening of the wise or about the problem of com- gram of twelve or fourteen hours laws.\ rnunism in China. All these items, a week would leave the student \Socialism is proportionally weak- JI!lr. Stratton said are important and with little time to take subjects est in the middle age group and will be sure to come before the new which would be considered educa· not in the younger groups. But we administration. tional. haven't enough people of any age.\ Dew,ey Sure Victor, Says Forecaster; Heated Senate Struggle Near Certainty By Don Cregier ~-------------------------------.------------------------------ The extremely low registration in tied . With the situation this year, New York State portends a nation- Preident Truman and Henry Wal- al vote in the coming Presidential lace can try to secure the support election not much h,igher t4an in of the registered independent vot- Candidate Murphy As Election s b •· t T }k 1944. It is a proven fact that the crs, many of whom will not vote at e ring 0 . a number of votes cast in a presiden- all because of lack of interest in ginia, probably 'Kentueky, Missouri, New Mexico, and Oklahoma; a total electoral vote of 109. Governor Thurmond, the DixiE'erat nominee, will win Alabama, Mississippi, South Carolina, probably Florida, Georgia, and Louisiana; these states furnish 58 electoral votes. At Ll ·. qm\d SeSSI.Oll tial election ls between fifteen and any of the candidates. In this con- By Jim Bryson ~-------------------- nineteen times the New York City nection, it. must be remembered \The Taft-Hartley Law is in- kept a good attendance record.\ Lewis Sebring, a member of the. registration, which this year is that not everyone who registers effective. . • . We must be pre- Pat Sullivan, organizer of stu-· editorial staff on the New York 3,321,782, as compared with 3,556,373 actually votes. pared to meet any aggressor .•. dent Republican Clubs at colleges Herald Tribune, will speak at a in 1944. If we multiply this year's No matter how many people vote (and) lJewcy is the worst govern?r all over the state, interro&:ated Dr. beer party of the staff of The Con- NY•C registration to the nearest this year, President Truman's the State of New York has seen m Murphy on key oampaign issues. cordiensis next Friday at g p.m. hundred thousand by nineteen, we ·chances are clearly limited. The 38 years,\ opined William M. Mur- In reply to a question on his stand -Mr. Sebring, who was a war cor- receive 62,700,000; if we multiply Gallup Poll has estimated that if phy, Associate Professor of Eng- on the Taft-Hartley Law, Murphy respondent for the Herald Tribune by fifteen, 49,500,000. On the basis every potential voter in the coun- lish, in reply to. questions by Pat stated a belief that it is a poor and who now works on that paper's of past experiences, we may assume try should cast his ballot, the ·Sullivan, on WRUC's Concordy answer to the growing perplexi• wire desk, will be the first in a that the total vote this year will President would have only a fifty- Forum, Monday evening. Mr. Mur- ties of industrial reiations. He s·aid . series of newspapermen who will be closer to the si)laller than the fifty chance to win. With a rela- pry is Democratic candiciate for that a inuch better compromise speak at Concordi!msis beer parties larger figure, or about 53,500,000. tively small vote, he has a smaller Congress from this .<31st) diJilrict. must be reached to bring labor and during the fall. This will be a gain of about chance. Basing my calculations on Dr. Murphy has not previously management into harmony .with Members of the Concordiensis 5,500,000 over 1944, a year in which Gallup Poll reports and past elec- sought any public office. More each other. \The Taft-Hartley Law staff who expect to attend the af- election trends were disrupted by tion results, I conclude that Gov- often registered as Independent was written b;v NAM, pushed fair have been asked to report to the war. ernor I>ewey will carry California, than Democrat, Murphy accepted. through Congress by J:'l\AM and. Albert Corbo, managing editor, so Since the majority of Republican Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, the nomination after a close pri- , weighted for NAM. Its inefficiency that he may e~iciently perform his votes a:re drawn from the upper Idaho, Illinois, Ind1ana, Iowa, Kan- mary' race with .pinkish Andrew is emphasized by the fact that additional duties as beverage pur- economic and educational bracket, sas, Maine, MasS\achusetts Michi- Peterson. Mr. Peterson is currently cases have been waiting for NLRB chasing agent. they are very regular· in exercising· gan,. Minnesota, Nebraska, Nevada, running for Congress on the ALP. hearings for eight months. This the right of franchise. This is not New Hampshire, New Jersey, New ticket. situation must be changed.\ Steward's Club . true of potential Democratic and ·York, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, ·Although untried as a public Qtreried by Sullivan on his atti- An informal.group, tbe Stewards' Progressive voters, most of whom Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Utah, servant, in an interview following· tude toward Russia, Murphy .con- Club, has been formed to attempt are from the working classes and Vermont, Wisconsin, Wyoming, the broadcast Dr. Murphy said he cisely declared \We must be .pre~. to reduce the food bills at fraterni- more apathetic toward voting. Con-· pro b a b I y Maryland, Montana, feeis strongly that he can better: pared for war W·ith any ne.tion, ties through cooperative buying. sequently, a low presidential vote Rhode Island, Washington, and B.ernard W. (Pat) Kearney's rec- but it does not necessarily mean The members to date are Victor always favors the Republicans. This West Virginia, :a total of 352 elec- ord in the Hou~e of Representa- that we must increase our forces .Morrel, Vincent Coryell, Edward fact i's painfully obvious to their toral votes. President Truman will .tives. \In the eight years he (Kear- over the present strength. To de- Williamson, William Grant, .James opponents. Once ·registration is carry Arizona, ArkansRs, North ney) has beeli there, he hasn't .even (.Continued on Page 4) Siesel, and James Flynn. completed, the voting is almost set- Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Vir- \~ Of greater interest in this elec- tion than the presidential race is the contest for control of the Sen- ate, If the Republicans should lose four Senate seats, as is very possi- ble, the Democrats would organize the upper house next .January. Therefore both President Truman and Governor Dewey have concen- trated their heaviest campaigning in states where there are close Senatorial races. These states are Colorado, Montana, New Mexico (Democratic incumbents), Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Minnesota, Oklahoma, West Virginia, and Wyoming <Republican incumbents). As of now, ·it appears that the Democrats will lose Montana and gain Minnesota, Oklahoma, and West Virginia, leaving the GOP a bare 4&-47 margin. The final results will largely depend on the char- acter of Governor Dewey's victory. The House of Representatives, on the other hand, because of Prbgres- sive party candidates in key dis- tricts, will see a Republican gain of between ten and twenty seats.

'i: ~ ' I' 1 1 ',, '' J,;, l·. '' ,. i;. I I fi ! ! ),' I 'I i :~~1 l '!I I '! i 2 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1948 By ]{lmes .Baar Last week's editorial on Reserve Officers The Happy Hour 0 · Training Corps was written for The Con cordi'- cularly srnaJI, but important por~ts, of an old lecture given in another . There has been so much material, h' h th latter if he has a rnmd department. The. effect of aU of <lrnutnr ens1s by Joseph Enzer, editor of the Idol. We both oral and written, cast abroad ~. 1 !!ghteelucid~te to the class. It; this is heightened by the addition neglected to attach his name before send.ing· . on the land in favor of progressive is unfortunate that duller members'. othf lo[!!ttw~rdtsh, the. rn<?re tefchtnh. ical education that it is practically a ·of the group usually fail to gvasp. e \\ · er, . ~ zneanmg o . ese the editorial to the printer. · useless effovt of late to bring to the the good intentions of these stu- words, or forergn phvaS!lll as the fore any criticism of a phase of d ts nd at times assume a hostile chance may be, need have little the movement that has been .~~t :e relevancy to the context in which Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate .Digest. ::-:ational Ad\'er- 'tising Represt>ntative: Na- tional Adv~rtising s~nicc, Inc., College Publislwrs Representative, 420 Ma<li- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every r'riday of the school year. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 33 4 State St. Entered in the Schenec· tally l'o'lt Office as Sec- ond Class Mall Matter, subocription 1 Oc n copy; $3 year ; delivered any- where in the United States. extant more than five years. N.one- a 1 u · d they appear theless I feel, whether or not what The Broad Student ranks secon · · in abundancy, although his abil.ity A category of extreme interest, Scot Student Views Union · I write here will have any positive h hr·ch 1 am afrar·d h~a maded to aggravate is assuredly as h1g · w · · = ..... . some- effect, that there is a particularly , h t s·nc World War r~ ·· th· as th at ·of the Neo-Harvard type. w a 1 e . . · :.., IS · e inimical custom called class-room- F ·r M f \1 ... . cr· . f Chief attribute of those corning · arn1 Y an o \' amac. pre er \Canny\; cautious, unwilling to commit participation that should be aired under this classification is tha:t at the latter of these names feeling it By Graham Martin to the public. . all times they not only recall that . more appropl'i:ate, if only the ir;on oneself; e.g. a canny Scot; so runs the die- This so-called active education in the ·converse to statements made. rule of scientific nome1;1clature will t . d f' · • which the student is solicited to it t ) T · · 10nm·y e m1t10n, ~nd wl 1 en people, ·as they. 1 ·n a particular class has been perm · he change. · l;l.is species ~ contribute for the edification of the fi · ft d k uttered elsewhere in the academic is, by de n:itmn, a rnembe;r of an · so 0 en o, as me what I ·really think 01 group is not as simple as it first ap- . curriculum of the college, but they. extremely prolific family gr.ol,lp, George T. Orl~k., ....... ,, .. ,, ............... , .. l:dltor Albert Corbo ... , .................... l\Innnglng l!•lltor A · I · d ) If f pears. Actually in practice stu- Inenca In U ge myse reely in thi::; racial dents whose actions correspond .to are only too willing to remark on who are spread not rnerelythrough- characteristic! \Oh! very nice!\ or \l find plan ate few and far between, !lnd. the fact. A subdivision of this out the world, but are situated at in contradistinction to .these, there grouping specializes in recalling to· points of contemporary historic in- James !HUI'l'!lY ............................ NI'WN r:tlltnr Herbprt Saxp . . . . SporN F.tlltnr Rob~rt HPinetn[l,IIIJ ............ , ...... ,., .. Photo F.dltor the weather oppressive,\ thus awkwardly is a vast group of individua]s, instructors only converse state· terest. For example, there' is the ~===================dl· trying to laugh off the fact that I am going which can be divided into ,pe-riflc rnents mad·e by members of the case of a man whose uncle was sit· vel'Y cannily indeed! categories, who not only de-stroy. ~~c~t~ ~i~~ :t'::~d!:le forrt1cr are ~i~;O:j;~o~~~~e ~~~~tf~~~f!nd~~~~ I<'ranels :Ueehan ...... , ............ Clreulution ~lunugN J.ambPrt tlln,bprg.. . . . Bu•ln\\ )lanagt>r' the efficacy of the theory but also · That I have been enjoying myself is be- manage to prevent, with a high Closely related to the Broad Stu- tunately overheard a conver-sation d · degt·ee of success, the educational dent, aithough with ·entirely differ- between Molotov and Stalin, who •·on questwn. People listen to wha.t I have · d · · · t t J process from operating at all. ent aims, is the Conservative. This were m a JOmmg ·cornpar men s;, l\Iany of the students of this college are to say-in itself a delightf.ully novel experi- First and foremost of these cate- classroom .phenernenon is noted by This, of course, enabled him to Endorse Murphy Bid residents of SchenectadY and nearbv towns ence. r have been offered two blind dates gories is the Neo-Harvard, whose the fact that it brings to clas::; quo- bring special information to Ijght and cities which fall w'ithin the 31st Con- almost without asking-which, incidentally, chief characteristic is in manner tatlons from well known works of in a cl~J,Ssroom discussion this fall. 1 · f of speech. This type liberally em- ·scholarship and/or preferably by It is such \insides\ as this, gained gressional District. l\Iany of those students were more or ess sabs actory on which Sat- ploys the broad ·\a\ along with the particular instructor in ques- through family connections, that who do not call Schenectady their home will urday you consider first. Everyone is most other aspects of the Cambridge- tion, which it proceeds to read to these contributors have at their vote here by virtue of their residence at courteous and helpful and altogethel' I am· New York Cocktail Jargon, but al- the ·group. These recitations are fingertips at all times. Union College. So, in an attempt to influ- treated in a manner that I have experienced so noticeable is the interesting ad- then followed without fail by a Natura:lly there are many other tt bl ld dition of great strain in the voice.· query as to tt'teir. accuracy. minor species that could be brought ence you Who will vote in this district, we regre a Y se om. In specimens which are chronic It is important that I mention to mind at this time, out I will end endorse William M. Murphy in his candidacy Now quite obviously, there are in theory, cases this latter quality takes on at this time, because this is the my cata·Ioguing by mentioning. only for election to the House of Representatives. three \beneficiaries\ in the Exchan!!e all the appearances of acute pain, point where he generally makes his one of the~, since I feel that it is 1\1 lVi h · · t f ~ and at times the exertion becomes appearance, what I like to think more abundant of late. This is the .lv r. urp y Is an associa e pro essor of Eng- Scheme·, to wit, Union College, St. Andrews 1 r d 1 . h so c ear Y angerous that fellow- of as the Monkey-Wrench Type. Scatological Student, who is typified IS here at Union. University and myself. What should be of classrnen have been known to corn- Although he takes diverse forms by the fact that he will never fail Before proceeding further with Mr. Mur- most concern to you is just what Union is miseratingly beg the sufferer to and there are extreme variations to snigger Iech,erom1ly at the mere phy, let us turn to his opponent, Bernard W. going to gain from my stay this year. That cease talking and to rest. in the erudition of particular spec!- mention at such double «;lntendtes K f I If h There is also a special extreme mens, the overall trend of this as marriage or mother. ~ ar1e o · e eo· arvar w 1c gemus rs a ways the same, namely, Here then is only a ·brief outline earney o Gloversville, New Yo1·k. M1·. myse can ardly escape bein~r benefi'tted v · ty f th N H d h' h · · 1 Kearney has been a member of the House of is, I think, weB exemplified in the quotation deserves hOnorable mention, name- the issuance, at the high point of of the case that can be made Representatives for eight years. He has -or rather-eliche \ ... a prophet is not ly, the confidential species who a particularly heated discussion, of against active participationinclass- been re-elected three times by the voters of .without honour except in his own conn- add a hushed tone to the voice, a series of completely disconnected room discussion. Let us face facts th . d' t . t H . tl . h' t , h F th , 1 giving the impression that they are . sentences. These may be related and admit that for once we have IS IS nc . ere IS 1e manner m w 1ch he ry. . . or some sue . or at IS exact Y talking to the instructor alone. to the subJ'e t u d d' · b h d h h I f c n er rscussron, · ut erred. This thing is bigger than as represente t em in Congress: ow eel. Let me give you a few instances: This all generally involves parti- they are more often then not part all of us. His record of absence from congressional· At soccer practices my tendency to dogmatic sessions and committee meetings probably statements on .how the game should be played rivals that of any other lawmakel'. It is our are treated :v1th at least a semblance of re-. belief that the people of a congressional dis- spec~;, now m. S~. Andrews I pl~y r~gby­ trict cannot be properly represented when and Its not diffic~lt .for me to Imagme on the man of their choice fails to perform the the one hand, the p1tymg looks of the rugger work for which he was selected. ~rowd as towards one who has come down Items Culled From Exchange Newspapers He has failed to introduce or otherwise m the world; and on the other hand, the con-· The following article is reprinted~·~-------------------------~-­ frorn the Rensselaer Polytechnic at Must a I?an be required . . . to I quires a hospital ,bed, but that R.P.I. It points ·out quite vividly get a wntt.en ~tate~ent from the since his case iSn't serious enou ·h, the problems that students in other doctor, statmg m effect, that he re- his dormitory bunk would do? g seek Ie2:islation which we feel is needed. such ten:ptuous laughter ·Of the. .soccer players coll~ges are being met with in re· ~ h h ld t h gard to absence from classes. AJS. as adequate checks on inflation and programs w lC wou. gree any opiniOn on sue a The announcement by Ray which would provide housing and other forms game of skill fro.m a mere roughhouse rugger Pla.mer Baker, Dean of Students, · of security for his constituents. In fact, it is player .. • Or agam ~he Mountebanks. -In St. concerning the absence policy recorded that he voted in favor of the I'eso- An~rew. s I w9uldn ~ dare go near the M_er- formulated by the Administrative d D t S t f f f tt Advisory Council has aroused a lution which kept the Taft-Ellender-Wagner mm ram~ lC ocie Y or e.ar 0 ~e I~g great deal of comment from the bill from leaving committee. He seems in- my nose '~Itten .~ff-metaphon:ally ~~st. l_TI student body. stead to have been preoccupied of late chiefly ca~e ;you Ie wOined-as meie Philistlmc A perusal of the text printed in with the introduction of legislation which scie,ntist. Where!Ls here I have been as~ed the POLY last week reveals that was designed to block the deportation of a to 1ead a p~rt qmte t:egardless of my en~Ire the only reasons for which a legal local gambler who has recently been in the lack of prevrous experience. I could multlp~y ~~~~:eof :~rr~~e ~~t~~na~~ i~r~n:~ headlines these examples by two or three and still. immediate family, for court order, · lVI l\i h h . . leave some over, but I've given enough to· and for hospitalization. r .. urp Y ad eres to New Deal prmci- show you that I at least, get a good deal out Actually this absence policy or pies. Th1~ means. as nearly ~s we ~ave b~en of being an exchange student. \cut system\ is similar to the one able to fmd out, that he beheves m lookmg enforced here in prewar days and at each national problem in its own light and Now, what about St. Andrew's? Well is no different from the one in ef- then trying- to solve it with the needs of the by the same token, I go back next year with feet since then except that it · d bl · · · 1 wasn't as rigidly enforced. majority of the people in mind. This philos- co~sl e~a Y ~ore ,(xperle~ce m many fie ds Disreg!J,rding the first three rea- ophy, so blithely explained, does not neces- (~Ic) With which I can d1ffuse some bene- sons given above, in order to ob- sarily qualify him to receive our endorse- fit around\ as the hymn goes. For example tain a legitimate excuse, because ment. What does is his interest in the need I had a long conversation with certain foot- the reasons are perfectly good for legislation so appal11'ngly neglected by Mr. baller.s on the relative m.erits of the lateral and considering hospitalizatio~ b only, anyone can see that if this Kearney. To cite a few of the fields where pass m rug y and Amerlcan football. Quite ruling is strictly enforced it places our interests and those of Mr. Kearney coin- frankly ~ had to tal~ fast to keep my end up the students at a serious disad- cide, he believes that the Taft-Hartley act at the hf!le, and ~mce then I hav~ decided vantage by endangering their should be given up as a law wh1'ch does noth- that t.he mtro. duct10n of the Amencan type ~ealth and increasing the probabil-· Ity of the ·spread of infectious dis- Union College Garnet Sports Coats (class numerals on breast-pocket optional) ALL WOOL - FINEST QUALITY on display in Book Store For ·information call KEN WHALEN -2-6630 BILL O'NEILL - 3-1100 JIM PEMRICK- 6-2541 After 6 P. M. THE FINEST IN RECORDED MUSIC R. C. A. Victor Columbia Decca Capitol ing to improve labor-management relations; pas~ m cert~m cases would spe,ed up ru~by eases .... There are in attend- he believes that a housing program should taches co;ns1derably. So there s one thmg ance at RPI now a total of 4 , 243 be instituted which will result in housin()' not and that m two weeks. By the end of the undergraduates and graduate stu- in the confusion which has typified p;'~sent ye~r who knows ..•. ? I may have decided de~ts each <?f whom paid the pre- attempts to solve this problem; he believes in to mtroduce Amerrcan football! ~~~~~~?th~ee~~~a!h~:s o:h!~-~~ A~:; preservation of the civil liberties now rapidly But this brings me to the .original ques- s~andar~s we should have facili- being destroyed by those who by no stretch tion \What good does Union get out of the fles ~vaJiable to handle 127 at any of the imagination can be held to have the exchange student?\ I tried to answer that ?ne hm~. Instead, we are told that Featuring The NEW m case of hospitalization sick· interest of the greatest number of people at question at a certain memorable (for mel) nesses or injuries only 10 men can LONG PLAYING heart. assembly but if you got any sense out of the ~~ta~~ndled by the Samaritan Hos· In many campai!rns the issues are vague rather incoherent words which I was moved s· COLUMBIA RECO·R· DINGS - urely there are illnesses such as and the candidates similar under the skin, to utter I'll be very surprised. However the t~e common cold, sick headaches R making it difficult for the voter to decide for Concordiensis have in this issue given me drarrhe~, etc, Which are legitimat~ oberts p·.ano ·C·om. ·p· ' any whom to cast his ballot. But in this district a second chance. and which require rest but which the issues are clear-cut. The incumbent has As I said, to date, I have been particularly are not, at the same time, serious 203 St t St t d l ·ttl t . 'f h' 1 . enough to warrant hospitalization. a e ree Corner Ferry Stre. et· one 1 e o J usti y IS e ectwn; his op- careful to say as little as possible in the way ponent offers a program which, should he be of opinions; however gTadually as I learn ·fr·;;·;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;~ ~~;;;;;_;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~~~;;;~~~~~~~~~ elected, can bring nothing but good to the about Union and Amedca I will be more and IT greatest share of the residents of his distrrct. more in a position to make relatively well- So examine the re,cord of Mr. Kearney. informed judgments-dismal word~upon' Find out specifically what Mr. Murphy prom- what I see ranging from football matches to ises, and then vote accordingly. the cut system. When that time comes I feel I shall have to stand upon many toes- The Photographers whose work ts repre;sented in this week's issue are: Robert West, :IWb- ert Heinemann, George Wood- ruff. at least so I am told. But I feel most cer~ tainly that it is in this very sphere that I can be of any value to Union .College. For . an outsider's opinion, however superficial, may at least sth up some controversy from which may result a better understanding of · the situation for all concerned. Quite apart from the fact that this is my job it will be a glad moment for me when I can do Union · this service at least. So when I stop shoot- ing my mouth off upon a:ll sorts of subjects just remember this article 'and say to your~ self ''Oh I well. He's just a poor ignorant ' University House 838 Union Street Famous :for its Excelle~t Home Cooked Meals Dinners Served Daily at 5:30 p.m. Saturday and. Sunday at 12 noon Moderate Weekly Rates WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS Fo,. WATCHES and JEWELRY Repair-ing and Engraving Pens and the Finf,!st Gifts Corner State and Center Sfs. foreigner trying to help.\. =====~====dl • ~ '!<, '=~~===~~~~ FRI~ c LJ ·(1 Ga afl Bl1 nil finE aga s Tl: shot: 5 lOf the: Cliff Bud but lane able fron teaiJ ord Cou Tof< pect tinu !ian anc< son. notE rneiJ prm fres Mai jen Dill had whi: g, af(] piOI as f Ne,; .tiatl to1 pioJ era: sWi: <J.A antl - 6 c

.Baar a:ll of these the little which some- is the prefer it iton. will species of ail gro~p, at in- is the sit- men's fpr- n, who· to light fall. gained that their other brought end only it is is the typified fail mere outline made inciass- ce facts have er than that enough, do? FrtiDAY. OCTOBER 8. 1948 3 Gri:d Alrtists H:a.·r·ri.e~rs In Sight 3rd Burlington Straight Win at Vermont; Debut; looters Booted Ketzme.n Set to Cop Verm:on·t Opener Ro.chester 2:nd Victim ~of ·Ca,rnet After twe consecutive one- s-ided victories, a confident Union College football squad leaves Schenectady tonight to face a mediocre University of Vermont eleven at Burlington tomorrow .afternoon, in wha,t should be their third win of the young .season. With one conquest and ·one de- feat in t!).e books, the Vermonters await the Union gridders as de- finite underdogs. The U. V. lads were trounced in their opening tilt· by a mild St. Michaels aggrega- . tion, and last week narrowly shaded impotent St. Lawrence by a single touchdown. Although the Vermonters boast 19 lettermen, with only three of last year's monogram-winners miss- ing, their '47 squad was soundly trounced by the Garnet at Alex- Soccerites Fall Prey to Wil:liams Some of the fa:;;t action which accompanied the introduction of soccer to the campus last Saturday is shoWn in the above shot. The unidentified Dutchmen is fighting to l~eep possession of the ball in the face of two Williams players. ' Galloping around the cinder oval at Alexander Field, we find these representatives of the\ Garnet prepping themselves for their ope:hlng contest with the Catamounts of Vermont tomorl'OW afternoon at Burlington. All set to get the 8eason off to a bang up start are L to R: Fred Steigert, Bob ·Garlock, Doh Wright, Ray Belan:gel·, Newt Culver, Jack Newton, Abe Laksskin and Don Bright- man. Missing from the picture is Tawnsend MacCoun. ander field last fall, winding up on I • 1 f f . the short end of a 20-1 count. · nexper1enc:e Spel s De eat or Rooters Return. ed Lettermen Bolster Cindermen's Chances·. Tou~\~h Schedule The Union team to which they . \::I play host tomorrow, on the other A new sport officially joined Union's roster of athletics Coach Bill Ketz's Garnet cros~-country squad, although composed of five veterans in hand, is one that last Saturday last Saturday, when an inexperienced but eager soccer squad sewed. up their ball game long be- opened its season against Williams College . finer condition than those of recent seasons, faces a stout battle when it opens tomorrow fore the second half rolled around, sustained a spirited second period Naturally enough, the Ga,rnet against the University of Vermont at Burlington. rally and copped a. 19 _ 6 victory. club was out maneuvered and out Seven men have been selected to ~ b t d · d. th h t That Gavnet conquest, incidilntly, oo e , wm mg up on e s or make the trip to the Green Moun- F h H • came with little difficulty despite end of ·a 3-1 count. Nevertheless, tains: Captain-elect Ray Belanger .· ros arrle·rS . the fact that four tackles wound as an untested aggregation taking . and ex-captain Newt Culver, who · will be vying for the number one Battle for Berths up on the injured list. the field for the first ume, Franz t W · t d B b Vermont must, at all costs, be- Gleich's lads showed inspiring posi ion; Dam ngh an o · . Garlock, who are fighting hard for The battle for berths on the ware of. Union's prolific passing at- promise of better things to come. teh three an·d four berths; new- freshman harrier squad is well tack, which accounted for all three The boosters' schedule lists a coiner Abe Lakeshin, a number- underway, with the yearlings set- scores last week. Strauss flips to blank for this weekend, but next two runner on the Champlain Col- tied down to serious training for Coppola registered two, while a Saturday the youngsters tackle a lege team last season, running in their opening meet .a;gainst the toss from Fletcher to Busino ac- powerful Rensselaer unit in what !.!==Dick Roberts=:=!.! The '48 Garnet swimming team should better last season's 4 wins- 5 losses record. T)le squad )las lost the services, through graduation, of Cliff Meldrum, Craig Mitchell, and the five spot; . Townsend McCoun, R.P.I. neophytes an oct. 16. counted for the third. ·is hoped to be the beginning of an- also making his debut, in the sixth Four outstanding prospects have Also of vital importance to Ver- other extended rivalry between the Posi 'ti'on·, and veteran Fred Cteigei:'t - mont is the fact that Union's two schools. shown up well in practice sess10ns: runnin•g number seven. Nirdlinger, who has been leading devastatrng line- ac.es, Ken Whalen Outstanding in the opening tilt Bud Ottaviano; but Coach Mul- lane expects cap- able replacements from the '47 trash team. Union rec- ord holders, Jim Courter and Joe Tof~l are ex- pected, to con- tinue their bril- liant perform- ances of last sea- son. An added Although little is known about the pack; McCormick, a student and Pete TenEyck, played virtu- were Bob English and Cy Hopkins, the Catamount harriers; the Ketz- from Australia; Robinson and ally the entire game and were as halfbacks, and Graham Martin, in- men will be favored on the basis Cohn. From the way things look effective in the final minutes as side left. These three form the of past records. The last meet with now, these will be the men hold- they wert? in the opening stanza. ·nucleus of a squad which certainly · the Vermonters was held in 1946, ing down thil first four berths on And, if an additional n.ote of power shall improve as the season pro- and the Garnet shaded the Green the squad, with the other three is necessary, it might be incidently gresses. 23-24. positions still wide open. mentioned that the Union club -------------- Last season the Dutchmen wound Last season the freshmen partie!- garnered a fourth touchdown when was their first in eight years, and ··up with a 3\2 record, beating R.P.I., pated in only one meet,. losing to Wade crossed in the first half, only· brought the record for the 59- . Brooklyn Poly, and Mohawk, while R.P.I. by a 15-40 shutout score. to have the play called back be- year-old series to 21 wins for ·being shaded by Middlebury 27-28 This year, however, coach Bill Ketz ·cause of a penalty. Rochester, 19 for the Garnet and (Continued on Page 4) hopes for better things. Bnion's conquest of Rochester three ties. note of encourage- · ment for future years has b\)en the promising showing of the following freshmen: Bill Conway:, pan Shea, Mark Branson, Roger :Hancher, jerry Roberts, Jerry ·Geisman, John Dillenham, and John Duffy. Ford- had has been added to the schedule while McGill has been dropped. SwimJming coach Ray MuDane is a fol\'IOr Y.M.C.A. swimming cham-, pion. Ray, a. ·navy vetera.n, served as a pbtysical traiJiillg instru~tor at Newpoil't, R. I, Naval tra.ining sta.- tlOOJ. where he coachetl the m~ to tbeir firSt New Ettgla.nd Cham- pionship, C9a.® :Mullane is atitlvet- eran - of 16 years of co'JI@fl . :ve s\vi.miD:Jjng wifilit the Flqshing Y .M. C.A. aild New York Atlbletle Club, . and. also is the holder of tJ.·opbiies (Continue4 on Page 4) · FERRO'S RESTAURANT Goo~ Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 1111 IAIUliTT STRIIT - Clea.nel'lil llond D:yel'll Ball'' 5 - Shoe Inc. ~ulltJen . 633 State St. 204 Union St.· PHONE 6-3456 Caif Jail and Ball Will Calf SMART COLORS, \ COLLARS AND· Arrow Candy Stripes $3.65 CRAVATS Arrow Solid Color \Aratones\ $3.65 Come in today and see our new .Arrow candy striped .and solid color shirts in several collar styles and colors. All ha:.t:e the smooth-fitting Arrow collar, the Mitoga shaped- to-fit body and the Sanforized label' guaranteeing. less than 1% shrinkage. Neat\knotting Arrow ties $1 to $2.50. NUSBAUM'S --------FOR ARROW' SHIRTSi ~----__,_- TWO SWELL COLLEGE BUDDIES ARROW CANDY STRIPES WIDESPREAD uSUSSEX\ COLLAR A~ROW SOLID COLORS SHORT POINT \KENT\ COLLAR Practical·atid good looking. additions to your wardrobe, these Arrow shirts are beautifully tailored in fine broadcloth arid come in several colors. Both the soft widespread. \Sussex\ collar and the non-wilt \Kent\ short point collar ·are particular favorites of college men. See them soon at. your favorite Arrow store! ARROW - )o S H I RT 5 a n d T i E 5 UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS LOOSE ENDS by I.!=== Herb Saxe==:!..! There is no use in repeating an old story. Let it suffice just to say that last Monday's athletic chapel was right in keeping with other chapels accorded our athletes. The cross-coun- try and the teams were duced to rootel's. about all that be said. black-robed still reigned preme on dais, but a golden sued forth from the marsh- throats. 'Bill Ketz was accorded the rare honor of being allowed to sit on ·the platform with the choir before he gave informal talk and intro- duced the Garnet harriers. Poor .Sy Hopkins was .n.ot even afforded this courtesy. He had to sit with the student body until he came up to the rostrum to introduce our neophyte boaters. Both men gave short talks and ir;ttroduce.d their respective squads, Situated m assorted sections of the audience. I know that modesty is a virtue much admired, but if the teams are going to stand up to take a bow, how about getting them up on the stage where they can be seen by everybody??\' Last week I was hopped on by John Hanna for my remarks on the football chapel. He claimed that Coach McLaughry was supposed to <Contin1,1ed on Page 4) The Action Party presents Robert W. Williams Candidate for STUDENT COUNCIL REPRESEN\T:A TIVE of the Class of 1951 of the Class of 1951 Good Student Government Vote ACTION

\ I .; ;I II : t:' 4 Loose Ends ••• (Continued from Page 3) notify the team members of their scheduled appearance. I think that coaching gives John almost enough to do, and chapel programs should fall under someone's else juridiction. Obviously, some changes must be made ·in the athletic chapel pro- grams. Let's start this metamorphasis by having some publicity before these athletic chapels are to take place. By spreading the wot•d around the campus, the student body will know in 'advance. It might also be nice if the teams to appear were to know about it in advance. Next, let's save our clarion-v.oiced choir for appropriate programs. As a {)hoir they contribute nothing to an athletic program. I might aslt what they contribute to any pro- gram, stragling out on the stage lilm bashful grade-schoolers. Let's hope they malte a better appear- ance when they are on tour. At any rate, with publicity intro- duced and the choir eliminated, how about turning these athletic programs over to the cheering squad? What do we have a cheer- ing squad for? Or, if we can't put\ the athletic teams on the stage, how about put- ting the band up there? It's been a long time since I've heard the band at anything besides games. And, instead of singing at prexy's chapel programs, let's do our sing- ing at the athletic programs! We have tf'!lms who are really doing things for dear old Minerva this year. Let's show them that we appreciate their efforts by cleaning up these deplorable athletic chapels. GOOD FOOD? Try Elmer's Restaurant 149 Barrett St. Where Union Men Are Always Welcome GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FrrTING 24li STATE ST.-Since 1898 FOR All YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 1917 ~~~~s~~~:~ II 166 Jay Street ll SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Necr FERRY LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE end STATE STREET f.IUD~Y. OCTOBER, 8, 1948 · Scoreboard •.• Previews and Student Election Freedom Forum . Murphy (c t . d · <Conti\nued ft•om .page 1) (Continued from Page 1) on mue from page 3) (Continued .from Page 1) for 14 dishict, two state, two junior. OenstU'es Wallace and PCA fe·at Communism, we must meet .honored by being selected for can- Reviews national, an dtwo seniot• national Mr. Norman Thomas, conducting the needs of people in the coun- · dic;:lacy by .colleagues who· t~em- . championships. his sixth campaign this year as: tries most economically backwa:d~ · s~~~~s havj. ~eache~ Qffi~e .. p~ .v:~tue Freshmen lacrosse coach, Clem Socialist candidate for the Pres!- In comment on the presidentlS: :. 0 . e cont 1 ~n~-~~1~ e.,., m d em LAST WEEK Alil'od ..•..•• 13 Rl'l . , . . • • . . . 7 Alleglleny ..•. 19 Hamilton •.... 0 Buffalo ...... 39 Holmrt .•.... 0 l\Htldlebury .. 20 Bates ........ 7 lll',·lllo Aggies 20 (''!<son },'rosll 111 Trinity ....... :m Williams ..... 6 l.:ulon .••...•• 10 Itocllester •... 6 Vermont ..... 7 St. Lawrence • 0 •rurs WEEK Bu11'nlo at RPI ('hnm}llaln at Wllllams DePILUW at Itoclloster Hamilton at :Uid<llebury St. I.awrouee at Hobart l:ulou at Vermont Vermont Tops Larries CANTON, N.Y.-The University of Vermont just managed to eke out an 7-0 victory over St. Law- rence. The bare margin for the Catamounts came in the second quarter on a pass from quarter- back Art Collier to right end Stan Upsprung. Upsprung kicked the extra point. ---o--- Cross Country <Continued from Page 3) and dropping a 23-32 meet to a strong WU!iams College squad. The teams expected to cause the most trouble for the Ketzmen this year are Williams, with all of last year's squad back; Colgate, a question mark but usually strong; and R.P.I. which has acquired the number one runn.er from last season's strong Champlain College squad. GUERRA'S PHARMACY Fountain Prescriptions Sundries 600 Union St. Cor. Barrett St. For Student Body President and Chairman of Student Counc:il Vote for David J. Killian STUDENT ACTIVITIES: Newman Club Student Council 3 yrs. Sophomore Discipline Committee Interfraternity Council -President Freshman Orientation Committee Student Activities and Relations Committee Discipline Committee Remember: , NEXT MONDAY Vote Killian For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 601 Union Street AUTO SERVICE Tomlins, extends an invitation to dency, said he believed that a fair candidates, Murphy supports Pr.e? 1 \ · necessary 0 · 00 a e recor • all freshmen who tip the scales rea:llzation of the facts regarding dent Truman on \most of the IS-, Jim Pemrick, recent benedict, is .over 135 lbs., and are versatile, td the world crisis would help us in sues\ of the campaign, and ,.de- ·.by the student body. It becomes try out for the squad. Coach Tom- solving the crisis itself. He cen- scribed Thomas E. Dewey as Nthe' a .. local resident in his senior year !ins can be contacted at the :b.U, sured Henry Wallace and the Pro- worst governor the State o~ ew · a~:; a student of Finance. He is house or at the practice field (in gressives for not telling in their Yorlt has seen in 38 years. Par- playing his third year of varsity vicinity of library) after 4:00. . campaign the whole story concern- ticularly he ·blasted the \fa:lse sur-· basketball, ha~ been and is a high- The following biogi·u.phical sketch ing Communism. Reviewing the plus\ in the state treasury. . scoring star. He was capta,in of is the first in a series of stories principles embodied in the plat- The Moore .Plan, inaugm,ated m the team last year a;nd has .been about the men who wear the Dutch- form of the Socialist party, Mr. 1940 or '41, allots a fixed sum to·· ele!;ted to the co-captaincy this sea- men's oolors on the football team. Thomas called for the founding of each community ·in the state for son. Jim belop.gs to .the Newman Tony Coppola, 25 year old, 5'11\ a strong national third party which the health, saiety, morals, and .gen-: club, is a member of the student 175 lbs end, is one of the re.asons could serve as a rallying point for era! welfare of the peopl-e, but has; council and is affiliated with Phi for the Dutchmen's winning season, liberals and socialists who in :turn not increased ap.propriations in .ac-.; Gamm~ Delta. This past ·spring, Tony hails from Sdhenectady and ·would work for the \universal fel- cord with the rising cost of ma~e- · he served on the 'Fre~hman camp- is a, '42 graduate of Mont ~leasant lowship of free men.\ rials. Revenue from taxes. has. m-. staff. He is an alternate on the . High Scqool, where he managed Speaking last, Mr. Root, grandson creased considera.bly, t'esultmg I.n a· Bo·ard of Chaplains' Association. the. football and basketball teams. of Elihu Root, secretary -of state ·surplus. The prop?sed pay ra:1ses Jim's associates say t·hat he, wi.th- Aft£'1' finishing Iris freshman year ·under Theodore Roosevelt, and of teacher~. accOI 1 dmg to Murphy,· out actively seeking offices and at Union in 1943, he pleased Uncle president of the Associated Willkie were to dig deeply in.to t~is sp.r- honors, has been sought out fo:r; Sam by serving in the infantry for Clubs of America in 1940, summed plus, Dewey ~ut the rmses tn ?v.der ··them; that he is a quiet, modest, two years (E.T.O. Theater). up the reasons for supporting the to bolster his record of political. serious man, whose judgement is 1 In 1946 \Oa.p\ had his first touc]ll Republican ticket. Mr. Root em-. economy. held in respect by studel;.\ts and col, of bootball as a sub end under Mel phasized that both Republicans and Also, $600;000,000 was turned over lege .authorities alike. They point Hein. The '47 senQon say Tony· d~ D t h t· 'b t d much f t f ~ tate un ·~ ~- emocra s ave con 1'1 u e to manu ac urers rum s - out the significance -of his expand- velop into one of the best offensive to American democracy, but that employment funds. The surplus in ing activity in important spheres, ends Union has had in years. This neither party should remain in of- this case was built up during the and assert tha,t his personality is year MI•. \Left End\ is playing sen- fice as long as the Democrats have full-production war year~. Benefits wen suited to the office of Student sational ball and is a constant · t Th D c ats h · bl h t b en • m recen years. e emo r · to t e JO ess ave no e :·Council Presid·ent which, they say, threat- to OW' opponents. The Union- h d' · t t d he \d to the h d · b ' 'th · · ave Ism egra e , sm , · · c ange smce e,ore e war. ·is seldom confronted with i;lynami'c Rochester game saw MI•• Coppola point where none of their proposals, Dr. Murphy answered the qu-es- problems but almost a'ways needs a no ma er ow senst e, can e pu · tion of lS a 1 u e owai' sa es' quiet head to resist vested inter- make two ~illiant T.D. catches in tt h 'bl b t h' tt't d t d I • · helping the utchmen revenge last into operation effectively. ~fr. Root taxes by stating that \Sales taxes ests. year's defeat. · strongly asserted that while the on anything but luxury items·. Tony, a langilllge major, gradu- Republican party is normally con- stril<es most heavily at the lower. Dave Killian, senior student of ates in Jan. '49 and expects to con- servative, it has chiefly f>ollowPd a income groups.\ · go·vernment, president o~ Beta tinue Iris studies for sb:: months at progressive form of conservation When asked why he broke with Theta Pi, native of Hartford, Conn., La Sorbonne in Paris. In closing, which is forward looking rather the Progressive Party, Murphy re: wa::o vice-president of the lnter-fra- may I add that \Cap\ is a gentle- than \stand-pat.\ plied that he was never an official· .tel'nity Council as a sophomore; man on and off the field. After elaborating on their views, member of the group. Continual was elevated to the presidency of Cleat Sparks the four speakers were questioned disagreement with left-wing local that body the following year. Dur- Center Ken Whalen, 60 minute- by the moderator and the audience party leaders through the summer ing his tenure, he secured funds man, was the fifth man in the on topics of importance in the led to an open ruptur-e, with the. for the athletic award system now Rochester bacltfield last Sat. . . . Presidential campaign. ALP naming a candidate of their in force. As a sophomore, he Cookie Sherwin, who received an own. served on the discipline committee; arm injury early last week, de- Chuck Abba, Pete Delsanto, and As a partlng shot, Dr. Mur- as a junior, he was a member of serves a pat-on-the-back for his out- Bert Napear) wete injured and un- phy expressed an opinion that in the Student Relations committee. standing playing in the Rochester able to play most of the game . . . all President T.ruman's \Give 'em Dave is now serving his third term game ... Coach McLaughry must Blg Don Williamson is back playing Hell\ speeches, he didn't say half on the Student Council; is a mem- have sweated-out last Saturday's tackle for Hobart. When will we what he could have truthfully said ber of the College Discipline com- game when four tackles (Bud Mills, ever see the last of that guy? about Republicans. mittee. \I smoked CHESTERFIELDS off stage while making my new picture, THE LOVES OF CARMEN. There's no finer smoke. I know •• '· It's MJ cigarette. 11 /P~~~ STARRING IN THE LOVES OF CARMEN A COLUMBIA TBCHNICOLOR PICTURB A BECKWORTH CORPORATION PRODI,ICTION 1l{Oirff'k .P ~ ABC GIRL of University of Colorado says- \ I smoke Chesterfield because no other brand can offer as MILD a smoke or as good- . tasting a smoke , •• they SATISFY. 11 ; Th anne for Fall 5, w: para pian Of tertE fam< broo and Hen 10 p. addi the feat, erts PI has 400 affai nun: \soc end: Pro1 F< \Be: gam Sat1 onl~ Holi \] M Mr. the appc Th prod E. S est,\ whic Hall In pate Fest The act SagE lege, Unic My ness A the seve A I facu will side \Sh< [ gl in ei w .:P< aJ d~ ()I e1 ir s1 ti p o· 0 tl s: '\1 t: d f l1 ..; lJ cl

1948. 1) for can- them- vil!tue iii them is becomes year . He is varsity a hlgh- pta,in of ,been this sea- Newman student Phi ·spring, camp .on the with- and out fo:r; modest, is and col, point expand- sPheres, nality is say, dynamic needs a inter- of Beta Conn., of Dur- funds tem now he of term mem- ine com- •• ..; Founded at Union College in 1877 Vol~ 76, l\lo. 5 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1941 PRICE lO CENTS Garnet and RPI Will Collide In Grid Classic Tomorrow ----~--~------------~--~------~--~----------------------~--------·$ By Jim Ettinger Skitch Henderson K'N Home Underway SoOn ~ Selected for Ball The Gridiron Ball Committee announced late today that music for ''Football Holadiy,\ the 1948 Fall Prom scheduled for October 5, will be provided by the incom- pa-rable Skitch Henderson, his piano and hiS' orchestra. Offering the same ·pleasing en- tertainment which won them fame at Frank Daley's Meadow- brook, the Casa Lorna Ballroom and the Hotel Pennsylvania, the Henderson group will play from 10 p.m. through 2 a.m. And in addition to Skitch's brilliance on the keyboard, the orchestra will feature the voices of Andy Rob- erts and love)y Nancy Re'ed. Prom Chairman Bill Hartnett has already predicted that over 400 couples will attend the gala affair, and that an overwhelming number of freshmen (who will be \social sophomores\ for the week- end). may help eclipse the Spring Prom attendance record of 450. Followed by the judging of \Beat Middlebury\ displays, the game and the open houses on Saturday, the Ball itself is to be only part of the superb \Fobtball Holiday\ weekend. Plans for these and other activities are all well underway, and already many details can be announced. Tickets are priced· at $7.20 per couple, with half-priced ducats for married veterans. They will be· sold through dorm and fra- ternity representatives, and, for the vets, at the Student Activi- ties Office. There will also be ·a 20 percent discount for corsages, which wiil be sold through a sing1e concession. In addition, the Committee has tackled the problem of housing for Prom guests. J.,ocation of any available rooms will be an- nounced at a later date. According to Hartnett, the Union Octet will entertain at dance intermissions, and, if pos- sible, plans will also be made for a radio broadcast from the gym. Others on the. Committee in- clude: Paul Hochuli, d·ecorations and theme; Tom Cunningham, favors and corsages; Walt Rock- well, tickets; Jimmy Rosen, en- tertainment; John Patten and Bill Gardam, housing; and Dave Strauss, publicity. \Petrified Forest\ First Mountebanks Prod.uction T h e Union C h a p t e r of~ Kappa Nu, leta, will hold ground breaking c e r emonies ' for a ,new chapter house on Homecoming Week-end, Sat- urday, October 30, at 4:30 p.m. These exercises will take place on the site of construc- tion at Lenox Road, immedi- ately north of the college brook. Speakers Scheduled Among the speakers will be Dr. Max Simon, of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., who will represent the eight found- ers of Iota chapter. Other speakers will include: President Carter Davidson, a member of the college board of trustees; Mr. Garson Meyer, national president of Kappa Nu fraternity; Walter Doran, presi- dent of the Inter-Fraternity Coun- cil; a representative of the city of Schenectady; and representa- tives of the active and alumni groups of Iota of Kappa Nu. Chap- lain Brown will deliver the invoca- tion. Founded in 1917 The Union College Mountebanks, under the direction of Mr. Jackson Davis, have drawn up a tentative program for the .coming weeks which is expected to have a wide popular appeal. Iota of Kappa Nu was founded at Union College in 1917. From that time until 1925, the fraternity was housed in the south section of North College. In 1925, the fratern- ity moved to its :first house at 2 Union.Avenue, where they remain- ed until 1936. At that time, Kappa Nu moved again to the corner of Union Avenue and Gillespie Street, living there until the war. During this period the group grew to such a size that an annex for the fra- ternity was added on Gillespie St. Post-war Drive Broadway Favorite The first 1arge scale Mountebank production this year will be Robert E. Sherwood's \The Petrified For- est,\ long a favorite on Broadway, which will be presented at Hanna Hall November 9-13. Rules Listed For Pledging Architect's sketch of proposed Kappa Nu fraternity house. Pemrick, Mciver New, Student Council Heads James Pemrick won the presidency of the Student Coun- cil by a large majority over David Killian in elections Monday. Also victorious was Kenneth Mciver who defeated Edward Carsky for the office .of Council Secretary. -----------------------------·~ Decisive Vote Homecoming Event Nears Pemrick captured 523 of the 826 votes cast for the presidency while Mciver won a margin of 142 ballots in the secretarial elections. In the class election for student representatives the class of '5tl elected Graydon Loomis from a field of seven candidates. Richard Killeen defeated six other sopho- mores to become their council representative. ·The smouldering em· bers of a 63 year old foot~ ball rivalry will burst forth with a renewed in- tensity approaching in- ferRo, when Union's Dutchmen clash· with Rensselaer Poly tomor- row afternoon at 2:00 p.m. on Alexander Field. Both teams are fighting mad, and a struggle packed with TNT is in the offing for the spectators. The Garnet would like nothing better thav to smear the gridiron Cherry and White, while the Engi- neers sre equally anxious to dam up the bounding brook with laurel leaves. Seek Revenge Coach John McLaughy's Dutch- men, with a 2-1 season record, are expected to be plenty stubborn after last week's one point 7-6 loss to Vermont. The Unionmen a;re really riled, and they are ready to rectify the 34-21 defeat handed them last season by R.P.I. The Trojans, on the other hand, are suffering from two straight set- backs at the hands of Alfred (13- 7) and Buffalo (39-21) ·and would enjoy breaking into the win column at their rivals expense immensely. It's Been a Long, Long Time Tomorrow's battle will be the 46th game in a rivalry inaugurated back in 1886, at which time the Garnet took the first contest 4-0 on a disputed decision. Out of 45 games played to date, the :butch• men have won 32, lost 9, and 4 have been deadlocks. In addition, Union will partici- pate· in the Russell Saga Drama The Inter-fraternity Council an- Festival on Saturday, October 30. nounced this week that pledging of The festival will fe.ature four one- 1948's freshmen will begin at 12:30 act plays presented by Russell p.m. Thursday. After the war, Iota chapter started a drive to build a house on campus, the first step being the sale of the old house. A committee of Kappa Nu alumni was formed to take charge of the fund-raising campaign. This was headed by two prominent Union graduates, :rY.[r. Harry Kaplan in the capitol dis- trict and Mr. William Jaffe in the metrop<;~litan area. On October 11, after sufficient funds had been raised, Mr. Jaffe met with Mr. Frank Bailey, treasurer of Union' College, and consumm;tted the necessary loan from the college. The week-end of October 29-31 will see about 750-1000 faithful sons of Old Union returning back to their home campus, many of them with their f·amilies. The home- coming alumni will be shown the alterations on the campus which have taken place since they last were here; they also will visit as in preceding years classes and laboratories on Friday and Satur- day, October 29 and 30, and also have a look at the WRUC- radio station. The highlights of this week-end are the football game and the cross-country Union vs. Wil- liams on Saturday afternoon. In the evening the Mountebanks' Play Festival will take place at Hanna Hall. The class of '52 chose six tempo- rary council members from a field of 21 candidates. The men who will represent the freshmen, until the spring elections, are George Carter, James McGrath, Joseph Frick, Paul Woods, William De- laney and Stuart Brunet. The fact that Rensselaer lost their :first two games means abso- lutely nothing, as anything can happen in a rivalry of this nature, af:!cording to Coach John .Mc- Laughry. Both of R.P.I.'s losses were to unusually strong elveens, and the Engineers are conceded to be much more powerful than past records indicate. Union will be favored slightly, however, on the basis of their fine performances against St. Lawrence and Roch- ester. Sage, Albany State Teachers Col- No fraternity can offer a pledge lege, Hartwick College and Union. before that date to any student in Union will pmsent \The Last of his first term at Union College, My Solid Gold Watches,\ by Ten- under penalty of a three month's nessee Williams. . social probation. This ruling ap- A special attraction fostered by plies to all. men who are in their the Mountebanks this year will be first regular term at Union, re- sevei•al motion picture programs. gardless of class standing; speci- A committee consisting of two :fically exempted are students liv- faculty members and two students ing in the fraternity houses under will select the films. Under con- the HELP Plan. sidei-ation are such features as The IFC has placed no restric- \Shoe Shine,\ an Italian film, tions on bids offered after October I Set for Raids I 21. It has announced that pledges can be broken by either freshmen or fraternities, but that students released cannot be pledged by ether groups for six .months there- after. The Concofdiensis will announce pledge lists of the various fraterni- ties next week. This is one of the first steps in the college's program to bring all the off-campus fraternities on to the college grounds. There are at present four fraternities whose members are living in the dormi- tories including Kappa .Sigma, Phi .Sigma Kappa, Theta Delta Chi, and Beta Eta Upsilon. Fraternities now located off campus which will eventually be moved on campus in- clude Phi Sigma Delta, Sigma Chi, and Delta Chi. Kappa Sigma has a drive underway to obtain building funds so that they may start their building in the near future. Kappa Nu extends an open invi- tation to all students, faculty mem- bers, and members of the admin- istration to attend the ceremonies. Some important meetings are also going to be held. On Friday there will be a meeting of the Ex- ecutive Committee of the Graduate Council at Hale House and on Sat- urday an open meeting of the Graduate Council in the Old Chapel, where all alumni are in- vited. On Saturday the Board of Trustees, whose majority (18 mem- bers out of 24) consists of the alumni, will gather at a meeting at the president's office. The post- The class of '52 showed the best election spirit with 93 per cent of their class voting. The freshmen were eligible to vote only for their class representatives. A trend was noted that may have some effect of the coming sopho- more class presidential elections. Warren Thoreson, who trailed the field in the freshmen class .repre- sentative elections, was backed by Sam Newcomer. lude of the home-coming week-end will be the service in Memorial Chapel on Sunday, October 31, where Dr. Robert R. Wicks, Chap- lain of Hamilton qollege, will be the preacher. There has been much speculation to the effect that Union's line has been weakened due to minor in- juries suffered in the tackle berths during the Rochester and Vermont games. Th-e Garnet has considm·- able reserve strength, however, and Coach McLaurghy has shifted vet- eran guard Brud Shaffer and Cookie Sherwin to start at tackle ·tomorrow, with Pete Ten Eyck and Jack Weiss filling in at guard. (Continued on Page 3) Dip Into Dip - The scientific mind of Dr. Rob- Slipsticlt users from RPI are guaranteed a hearty welcome in the ~vent of a sortie into the environs of Union this evening with radio cars, port and star- board watches of freshmen, and the transcription of G.Q. dusted off. W2GBS, Union's connection with the world via ether, has built mobile units into three and possibl'y four student automobiles. ' Little Known Facts About Union College ert W. Finholt, assistant pro- fessor of chemistry, caused a great deal of consternation this past week for students arid fac- ulty alike. It all started when he asked one of his students what the last two lines of the Alma Mater meant. Cookie Sherwin, chief execu- tioner of the Sophomore Disci- pline Committee, has given the organization and responsibility of posting g·uards entirely to the frosh politicians. Three shifts will stand three-hour watches between 8:30 and 6:30. Under the direction of s!\n- tries, raiders will be escorted directly to fraternity houses for services and scalp treat- ments. No organization will be allowed to hold RPI stu- dents past midnight. Did you know that the Idol, long®----~-------------------------------~--------­ th~ught. to be a ston.e image from be given to the Sigma Omicron I demic of internal combustion of a Did you know that no Union graduate was ever convicted of barratry? Chma, 1s really nothmg but a hoi- Betas, who had been giving hori- particularly virulent sort? low shell made of numerous coats zontal house parties for :five years Did you know that Washburn of Pfl;int? The ~gu~e of a lioness before Dirck Romeyn came down Hall was built overnight by a dis- and\Its cub wh1<l}l IS supposed ~o with his famous illusion. gruntled beaver whose only .previ- compose its core, was removed m ous experience was gained as a the winter of nineteen ought eleven Did you know that our library is straw boss during the construction by a group of vandals led by Para- judged the :finest piece of Excre- . of Gah Dam, the dam in the lower celsus Schlauchfresser, the same mental Romanesque architecture Catskills that keeps Manhattan Paracelsus Schlauchfresser who north of Scotia? Thanatopsis from being washed out to sea each was later to become the first Dampfmaler, Union '.135, so de- spring? Rhodes Scholar to spend a year in scribes it in his book, Manichaean- Hoboken under the mistaken im- ism in the Copitol District. Did you know that Dr. Phimosis Gumboil, formerly of the Elec- pression that ~he Hudson River Did you know that the college· trical Engineering\Department was was the Atlantic. song beginning \You Union men the first man to discover that the Did you know that the Kappa whose pipes are lit,\ refers to the flow of electrons in a vacuum tube . Alpha Society was by no means the sad winter of 1903 when students were subject to the will power of first fraternity? This honor should were dying like flies from an epi~ the individual operating them? Did you know that the first wo- man to be graduated from Union was Panacea Murgle, who was later to gain fame as the Joan of Arc of Hawaii? Did you know that no Union student has ever been dropped from college for biting a professor, although the reverse is true? Pro- fessor Tribadius, who taught a' famous class in Mortuary Science, once hooked his eyeteeth into a student he discovered cheating in a supposedly friendly game of Post Office. Gaining no satisfaction from the bewildered scholar, the chem- ist decided to carry on his ques- tioning until he found the answer. After quizzing forty .men, the Doctor was ready to bring his problem to the faculty. How- ever, the forty-first student, who was a member of the ~hoir, came up with an answer. Dr. Finholt invaded Bailey Hall for confirmation. The problem centered about the word \dip.\ According to Dr. Finholt, who should certainly know, the word is a contraction of diploma;

1, '· . ·\ .\ ·, . ' ,, 2 Q.lnurnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- .butor of the Collegiate Digest. \'-ational Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc., College PuiJli\hc•rs ·Representative, 420 Mar11- ·son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial Office, Washburn- Hall, Union College, Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- on•! Class !\!ail Matter, suo•criptlon JOe a copy; $3 y\ar; delivered any- where in the United States. George T. Oriel!. ................................ Editor Aibert Corbo ......................... )lanaglng Editor James )lurray ................. ,' .......... News Editor Herb.ett Saxe ..........................•• Sports Editor Robert IlelnPmu.nn ........................ Photo Editor Francis l\leelmn ................... t'ln·ulatlon MunngN' Lambert Uin,berg ................... Business Manager For Better Scoring For many years football circles have been buzzing about changing regulations governing college football. Many of the changes, such as the unlimited substitution rule, designed to help small colleges, have ironically enough worked out to the benefit of the larger colleges. However, as many changes as there !lave been there has been no alteration in the methods of scoring since the point-after-touchdown was inaugurated, to eliminate ties, or so they said. But, with the advent of players who specialize in these kicks, tie scores are again common. Tie scores rna\' be of comfort to some school,s but players \\·ho have outmaneuvered the opposing team all afternoon and still come up on the short side of the score or even a tie are demoralized. What is needed is a method in which teams are given credit for outplaying their opponents . An answer to this problem has cropped up several times in recent ;years. The pro- posal is that, in the event of a tied score or a score in which there is a difference in the final score of less than six points. the team with the highest number of first downs be given one point fol' each first down made in excess of those of the opposing team. Such a rule would put a premium on teamwork, and would give credit to the team playing the better brand of football. This proposal would eliminate such oc- curances as the Army-Navy game of two years ago. Officially, Army won, with a score of 21-18, an instance in which the point-after-touchdown was the deciding factor. This, in spite of the fact that Navy pushed Army all over the field. According to the statistics, Navy made 20 first downs to Army's 8. That didn't show in the score. If this proposal had been in effect then, the score would have been 30-21 in favor of the Navy, \vhich would have shown much better the fact that Navy out-played the Army. This fact has been conceded even by players of the opposing team. Naturally, this proposal would draw much c1·iticism. Greatest opposition to this idea would probably come from coaches of the larger schools with long unbeaten, but tied, records. In order to keep a record of being undefeated, many coaches of the larger colleges will settle for a tie. Even in games such as the Notre Dame-Army game of two years ago, in which the final score was 0-0, the number of first downs made by each team was not the same. In games of that calibre, more effort seems to be made to keep . the opposing team from scoring, rather than trying to score. But, if the number of first downs were important each offensive play rather than defense would be emphasized. This would result in a better football game. The Happy Hour The curtain rises on the srm parlor of the President's House at Union College; the time is 4:00 A.M. Dr. Carter Davidson just ushered the shades of Rev. E. N ott, Eleazer Wheelock, and a member of the Harvard crew of 1854 into the room. Wheelock and Nott sit in chairs at right, while Davidson shares a settee up center with Charles. NOTT: I called this meeting here tonight to discuss the matter of raising funds for the proposed field house. Both my colleague, Eleazar, and myself feel that your plans in this direction are visionary and impractical. WHEELOCK: You see, we be- lieve that your idea of building the house by subscription is nothing more than a pipedream. A sum of money the size required could never be raised. DAVIDSON: Don't they raise funds at Dartmouth in this man- ner? NOTT: That is different. At Dartmouth the great majority of the progeny of her sons are born during the men's undergraduate days. This happy situation insures the return of most of the alumni to Hanover. I believe that they call this the water-the-blood policy. Is that correct Eleazar? WHEELOCK: Yes, the program is administered by the Keep-It-in- the-Hills Committee. DAVIDSON: Very well then, what would you gentlemen sug- gest? NOTT: We propose that you hold some sort of a lottery along . . • DAVIDSON: That idea landed you in court over a hundred years ago. NOTT: Let me remind you that I was cleared of all charges. DAVIDSON: Yes, but when you died they couldn't tell which was your money and which was the college's. NOTT: That is beside the point. What I want to know is, who are your men in the state legislature? DAVIDSON: (should be said with great indignation for full force) Our men! NOTT: Certainly. Don't tell me that you haven't set up some of your boys over there. (general laughter) WHEELOCK: What about Ozzie Heck? Isn't he Union? DAVIDSON: Your idea is pre- posterous, if I comprehend cor- rectly what you are propounding. (as natur-aJly as possible) NOTT: Why not? I believe that a lottery would be a brilliant . . . CHARLES: Stroke! NOTT: Yes. You might even modify the whole thing a bit. Run a give-away. Instead of a part of the proceeds, offer four years of college and a diploma as a prize. WHEELOCK: Give him the alternate one too. NO'!'T: He is referring to the drawings. (Wheelock nods) This plan, we felt, could be used as either an addition or a substitute. Briefly, it would mean organizing a .pool on campus into which each Isn't It Great to Be an American? By ]ames Baar man pays whatever he wishes; at the time of contribution have him specify three numbers; and then announce the winning combination at the ed of the day. Someone I met from Schenectady last week suggested it. DAVIDSON: How did he die? WHEELOCK: He tried to swim the Mohawk with a bag of rocks tied to his feet. DAVIDSON: That's what I mean. NOTT: Dr. Davidson, you are being difficult. Please remember that these are no longer the plush days of Calvin Coolidge. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15;, 1'948 Principle Questioned Dear Sir: · . Th C · · ort -of Mr. Murphy ~n e .· qn- AI!ho~gh ~~PP. l -of October 8th seems justified cord1ens1s e. 1 or1a . cations and his -opponep.t's poor in view .of h1s qualifi I would like to questi\on the, rec~rd m hCongrthe~r' in giving such an en4-ot•sem!lnt eth1cs of t e au 'th t signing his name. · · ' M W!Th~u editorial states that ••we en~orse Willi~ . ' . in his candidacy for election to the . ouse Murphy t t· s\ It is left to the reader to guess·_, of Represen a 1ve · · · · d't 1 1 who \we\ are. Are \we\ The Concord1ents1Sd e tl boor da staff -or are \we\ the members of the s u en . . y of Upion CoHege who are the actual own~rs of the ? I may be under a false impress10n but 1 ~~~=r ~!ways thought that. ~he. o:wners of a news, paper had a ·say in_ its pollbcal v1ews. Due to an oversight, Joe Enzer:s nan;te vyas:t:l't -~p~ pended to that rather ·controversial editorial of ;the week before, yet, only a week later, Th~ Concor~len,­ sis has managed to plunge into the national p~lltical arena with an.other unsi!;ned statement of pobcy. . . Lilte those students who, attracted by the_ mU!l!C . of the Caravan for Wallace, \approached w;~mly,. lest they be seen listening to libe1~al utterances, perhaps I should not have written this lett~r for,tear of beina labeled a \Wall Street reactionary but I finit;ly feel that the student body has a right to expect a reasonable explanation of this sudden se1·ies of unsigned editorials. Yours, very .truly, . WILLIAM C. VAN OST Republican ~eplies Dear Edito1·, In reply to your editorial and news story of ·last week concerning Professor Wrlliam Murphy I would like to make a few comments to straight!)n your readers out. At your invitation I appeared on the \Concordy Speaks\ over WRUC expressly, I was told, for the purpose of asking Professor Murphy what his opinion was on some of the campaign issues. When I did this I was under the impression that. it was a medium for the students to get an fdea of what the Democratic candidate for Congress in the district stood for. I did not know that the Concordy wanted an excuse to start publicly a campaign for the candidate at the expense of an unwarned rep- resentative of the Republican party. From what little I know of newspapers and their purpose I would judge that the Concordy had ove-r- stepped its bounds in two matters, first that it openly er.dorses a candidate for political office in a civic election and secondly that it has slanted a news article in such a way that it leaves a wholly untrue impression. Mr. Bryson sat during the pro- gram using such facial expressions that it was evi- dent he was a tool of Murphy's false assumptions. In the article, for insta-nce, the self-styled Alsop of Union College has reported that Murphy has reg- istered, \more often as Independent than Democrat.\ Murphy said he had registered only once before this campaign as a Democrat, a truly great record for a man running on that party's ticket. Because of Murphy's position as a candidate I gave him a list of the questions I was going to ask him. He asked me to leave out a few that would hurt him somewhat in his campaign. I gladly d·id so. DAVIDSON: And you please re- member tht these are no longer the days of Ulysses S. Grant. Since Mr. Bryson has stuck the kliife in a little too deeply I will betray some of my misdirected trust and delve into a problem I consider pertinent to Murphy's campaign. It concerns Murphy's political affiliation with the Wallace Movement. Any stu- ?ent i.n th~ college who knew anything of the polit- Ical s1tuat10n on -the campus last spring, knew that Professor Murphy was an avid follower of Mr. Wal- lac7. He said on the program that he had sought ~ct1vely for the support of the Wallace party know- mg th~t the men in this area who were running his campa1gn weer of very poor quality. He claims that t~ey, ~ecause of their pettiness, were the cause of h1s lo~mg the nomination. I think that it is .signifi- cant m tha.t. it shows that Murphy is still of the Wallace polltlca! faith. Support of Murphy is sup- port of Wallace. In the light of his winning a pri- m~ry fight from \pinisk\ Peterson I think it is suf- ficient to say, \what a choice!\ As far M M. . CHARLES: Stroke! DAVIDSON: Is he necessary? WHEELOCK: Ignore him. He's our driver; he rows the boat. DAVIDSON: You came by boat? NOTT: Is that anymore ridicu- lous than the rest of this? CHARLES: (rising) We have to get out of here. NOTT: I'm coming. (turns quick- ly on Davidson) Now look here, I was here long before you were and I know what's best. You're being narrow. Take the broad outlook. This i,s for the college's good. If you want a picture in the library as large as mine, you are going to have to step. DAVIDSON: You paid for that picture yourself. NOTT: Details! The sound of oars in oar- locks is heard from off stage as the curtain sloWly falls. P h • · G as r. ur- Y s saymg overnor Dewey is the \worst governor t?e St_ate of New York has seen in 38 years\ I con- ~~d~r lt the lowest form of political hackd~m used Y Ignorant hee_lers, and· coming from the \sa~ior of the great AmeriCan democratic tradition'\ Heav ' De!eyfewhawohrdds of pure political defense: Gove:~~~ s a one of the most b ·n· t d .. tive records the State of Ne y r! Jan a mmistra- say this not on! as a m w ork ~17s ever seen. I but as a fact a:d I will ~t~er ;f pohtJcal expedience time with an'y one who w': ~n my statement at any In closing I would · s es. of the Concordiensis ~~k~ttot say that .th~ old motto the masthead I think itg . 0 be agam n~c!uded in appropriate c'limax \M sums up the problem in an • any words for a lost cause \ EUGENE. F. (P~T) SULLIVAN; JR.. VIce-C_ ha1rman Comm'tt o .. • 1eeon rgamzat!On of Colleges d Un ·v 't' an I ersJ les for the N. Y. State Young Republican Club. As a l'egular teatUI'e, The Concordiensis will reprint each weelt items of interest culled from other student newspapel'S by Alfred Siesel who is in charge of our exchange files. Articles will be selected on the basis of their humor Ol' their general appeal in the academic FOR ALL YOUR I 11 L. G. Balfour Co. HOFFMAN_ SKATE LAND worid. Wilbur Rumple rues the day he took the subway. Usually he walk- ed to work. A small matter ·Of 15 blocks in New York City was noth- ing to him. Wilbur believed in exercise. But one day our hero overslept, so he decided to splurge and take the subway in order to get to work on time. Thl'l man hanging on the strap next to Wilbur's felt talka- tive. Since a card advertising Mitten Mouth Mints swayed baclt and forth in front of both Wilbur and his traveling companion, the fellow said, \How are those Mitten Mouth Mints, anyway?\ \Well Wilbur answered, \I think they're fine, but some per- sons I know aret too backward to try them.\ The next stop was WilbU!·'s and the conversation was brought to an abrupt end. Young Rumple hadn't taken six steps outside the subway before a he-avy hand descended upon his shoulder. A scowling stranger said in a husky voice, \I hear you've been spreading vile rumors about Mitten Mouth Mints-saying peo- ple don't like them.\ \No said Wilbur, \I only re- marked •.•. \ But the stranger, not g~vmg Wilbur a chance to explain, hustled him into a long black car. \I only meant . . . ,\ Humple began. \Shut up,\ answered the man, \You'll pay for this,\ When they arrived before the Board of Directors, Wilbur heard muttered comments, such as \scan- dal monger,\ \rabble rouser,\ \traitor and \communist.\ The poor lad didn't even get a trial. He never got a chance to tell them what he had really meant to say. · A messenger came in with an af- ftdavit signed by Rumple's wife swearing that he would never talk down Mitten Mouth Mints again. This they had procured by beating her thoroughly. Civic minded citizens and crusad- ing editors started writing letters and editorials -denouncing Wilbur Humple as a men-ace to private en- terprise and the American way of life. Wilbur was dropped from membership in the YMCA, the Masons, the Bird Lover's Club, and the company baseball team. In other words, his life was ruined. Wilbur's sentence was exile to Long Island forever. His ·last words before he was put on the Long Island train at Jamaica were heard to be-\But I only meant • \ Justice triumphed again. Betty· Broeffle Rider News Ril,ier Col!~ge Oome to the Pub Club, Bub BEER PARTl\ Tonight 8:00 CONCORDY OFFICE GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since J91l ~/3\\\\1 uS()\'b (}\\\\\)}}1 JAV ST.JlWILUS II 166 Jay Street IJ FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 BADGES STEINS RINGS iJEWELRY GIFTS FAVORS STATIONERY l;'ROGRAMS CLUB PINS KEYS MEDALS TROPHIES Write or can CARL SORENSES WATERFORD, NEW YORK Telephone 11 FJ 3 ~~~~ Shoe Cleaners and Dyers Inc. Rebuilders 633 State St. 204 Union St. PHONE 6-3456 Cart Ball and Ball Will can • Sat. & Sunday 2-5 P. M. • SKATE Mon.- Fl'i. 7:30-11 P.M. • SKATE DANCING CLASS Mon. & Wed. 6:15-7:45 P; M, GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 240 STATE Si'.--slnoe 18&a- .. FRIDA Ali he C< grid( Cata; Gar l men 1 Takin shove verte' The yards ing Ul fumblE Garnel Farrel Uaspr1 Union' frame own 3 first failed on the the D1 Lunds ball t< Strauf RPI TRC versit~ run u: sent i off a at 86 victor Cherr: Altl by tl long 1 ad van to ou· The initial the fi of J misse RP: 43 ya1 Bill Powe· ful pl made ( Cc .. ,

th:e, the l ~p~ ·the lest of I t to ·last the told, at it a of th:e for rep- it in ed a pro- evi- ns. reg- this a of list little trust to itical stu- pol!t- that Wal- his that of gnifi- the sup- pri- l;luf- Mur- con- used or of I ience any in an on and State • M, TY . . FRIDAY.- -OCTOili!R 15, \1948 ~utchmen Hit Snag Har·riers Seek 2.nd W·in at R PI Boot~rs in Tough BaHie With 3 Expense; Engineers ~-·~---~-· ~~----------------~·-------- Ketzmen Roll Over·r.r= ========::::;j .. Soccerites Seeking Vermont to Cop I st · sc .. QREBQA.RD. .'· .. First Win at Troy After caging the Catamou:qts of The Garnet boaters, . hoping to 'LOOSE ENDS · the University of Vermont, 24-35, • by ', make a comeback after their 3-1 by 'last Saturday in their opening meet loss to Wiiliams, tangled with the' I!:::=== Herb Saxe ===:::::!.1 at Burlington, the Union College' i.!::==Dick Roberts===ll RPI soccer team in a -contest held . Courtesy Vermont Cynic Although A:l Wade seems to be unstopable in the above photo, all he coUld do on this run was set the DutChmen up fGr a fumble. The gridders were suffering f,rom a severe· case ·of \fumblltis\ and the Catamounts took a!lvantage of the Gax·net shortcoming. cross-country -team is anxiously late this afternoon. The battle was: Once again that fateful time of , awaiting the all important clash Cross country Coach, Bill Ketz, held in Troy ·against a very strong the football season has rolled with tp.eir tradition:;~.! r,ivals, RPI, rates the following five men as the squad of Engineers, with the final, around. The time has come for the~ toxp.orrow afternoon over the home , best hill and dalers to run for· · . results coming in too late for p!ib~ Dutchmen to renew a degraded ri- course. ·The grueling race is sched- · Union since be was appointed men-: lication. valry with RPI. Just how decadent uled to finish during the half of tor: Bill Hawkes, '37 of Elmira, this rivalry has the football game. ' ho·lder of the Union record with the La.st wee·k the Engineers blanked f \d bl w 1 d b gotten can be · Both the Dutchmen and the Engi- time of 26:15; :Art Hyland, '44, of a orm1 a e es eyan squa Y a 2 0 B f h - fully rea I i zed : neers boast strong undefeated: Floral Park, L. I., 26:17; Paul' San- · - score. e Ol'e t IS afternoon when we consider teams this season, and the meet tora, '38 of .Schenectady 26 :20; Leah- the Cherry and White boaters have · the m e as u r e s ··promises to- ·be one of the excit 1 ·ng man Nestle, '33 of Gloversville had an unblemished season and · - 1 d h D · taken every year . attractions of the day. Rensselaer· 26:38\ Edward Bastedo, '37 of 1-l.a. st- Win, ose or raw t e · utchmen ·11 h h d by the S til d en t . swamped a better than average ings..on-Hudson 26:50. WI ave a a rough battle. Councils of each , AJ.fred University squad in their:. Ken WbaJ.en is The Garnet soccerites arc by no college. initial outing, and they are con- tlh·e 220 pound--- means discouraged by their defeat \Don't do this. .siderablystrengthenedwiththead- center of the at the hands of an experienced Don't do that. dition of· the nur:nber one runner Garnet forward WiUiams squad. In so much as Youhaveourper- . on last season's Champlain College forward. wan. this is the first year that the mission to do the team. In the 1947 season the Garnet Ken, 6'2\ 25 .years Dutchmen have entered intercol- 0 t h e r t h i n g;\ ·Garnet·. Fum'bles, ca· ta·m· ·o· nnts SteJNI 7-6 w· •. n .won out over the Troy course by old, was a star in legiate competition, the boaters Great guns! Bu- .. ..,. ·a 2~33 score, with Bob Garlock· football, basket- ha¥e shown a great deal of promise reaucracy on the college rivalry An o-qtp1ayed University of Vermont ·handed the Dutch- coming from behind and finishing ball, and track ~t for future contests. What they lack leveL But even more disgusting is th . f\ t d f t f th f tb 11 1 t S t , d .first by 15 yards over the RPI cap- Whitehall High i;n experience, Minet·va's sons more the fact that all these rules and men · eir ·Irs e ea o e · oo · a season as a ur ay. tain, .Ralp.ll Clapp. Scho()]. from 1938- than make up for in determination 1 T ki , d t f 1 f b bb1 th. c· t t regu ations are necessary. a ng a van age 0 a COUPe 0 0 es, e · a amoun S Led by fleet-footed Bob Garlock · 1941. He bad one and spirit. They want to turn out Who's to blame? shoved the ball across in the second quarter, and then con- and Captain Ray Belanger, who semester at Dart- a real winning team for Union. fl. - h ... ..._ u · •ty T I can't help but feel that Union ve:tted the game's winninlr point. · ms ed second and fourth, respec- nrou~u · ruvers1 · oday's soccer mix was the first ~ tively, the Garnet hill and dalers in 1942 befGre en- of three battles the Dutchmen will. has made the first gesture toward The Verrrlonters had only six~ showe<j. to advantage their pre-sea- listing iii the Navy, Wlrlle at Han- have with the rival RPI. raising the level of the rivalry. The yards to go with a first dow.n com-· zone gave the Garnet its six son conditioning in the initial race Gver, he played quarte1.'back on the Dutchmen came through last sprjng Wh 1 • points. at Burlington. One of the disap- frosh eleven. After recei.ving his when the RPI lacrosse team was ing up after recovering' a en s The Catamounts won 7-6. And pointments of the meet wa.s the discJm,rge in March '46, he entered Detroit Lions as tops- both as a over here. Union sportsmanship, fumble in the second period. The yet the Dutchmen completely over- failure .of ex-Captain Newt Culver, Union, Where he bias been a stand- football player and as a gentleman. both on and off the field was far Garnet held for two downs; then' powered them as the statistics will a COI!sistent winner .in past .seasons,· out performer on both the football The only time \Bullet Bill\ gets better than that displayed by the Farrell plunged to .pay dirt and· confirm. Vermont il.cquired ·a total to place better than seventh. How- and track teams. (He is tbe holder peeved is during the bridge game Engineers. Uasprung booted. the e;x:tra point. ·of 2 first downs, one in each half, ever, tomorrow's race could prove Gf the College's shot put record.) after practice. This fall it would seem that when Union's bid came in the fourth to Union's 11. The Garnet out- that this was all a mistake. In '46 under Mel Hein, Ken plawed Odds and Ends ever a frUstrated Engineer burns frame when they drove from their. rushed their opponent 123-52. Union Captain Randall of Vermont was fullbaclt. Co.ach McLaughzy moved . Ray Po!llleraYI. Union's transfer out a slide rule in Troy, ne runs own 39 to Vermont's .19 on three ·gained 49 yards to 24 for Vermont the individual winner of the run, hbn to OOlllter after the -DutChmen f ........ _ 1a over to Schenectady and tries his rom .... .,..,mp in, is quickly develop~ first down runs. Three passes in the passing department. All this finishing the four mile grind in Switched to a \T\ formation after ing mto one of the Garnet's best hand at daubing Lhe Union campus. fal 'led and Ve. rmont. took aver, but seems to indicate that the breaks 21:47 minutes, J'ust ten seconds the RPI ga. me in '47. So far this d Of course we could turn around en s. • . . Ray Belanger, Captain on the second down it was time for of the game make the score. And away from the course record. season, Ken hlas been •instrumental of the Cross Country team, has J\ust and do the same thing at Tr.oy; but· the Dutch men to recover a fumble. ·a team usually makes its own Union's Bob Garlock pressed. hard in both of our wins. In fact, h.e was b t th why lover ourselves? a ou e worst pair of flat feet on Lun dstrum and Best carried the breaks. The Dutchmen will be out in second place, his time being called the fifth II'Illltll iii the St. H The way things stand right now, OO.lniPUS. · e spent his military serv- (C ball to the 10 .and a first down. A to make those breaks tomorrow 21:51. Finishing in fifth, sixth, and Lawrence and University of Roches- ice in the infantzy. Who said the ontinued on Page 4) Strauss to Wade .aerie! i;n the end against RPI. seventh, within one second of each ter's ·backfield. Mr. Whalen. will, in atmy places ,people where they are .other were Wright, Lakshin and all probability, appear on many of suited best? ... The \New YGrk • . d S • h Culver. our foes all opponent teams at the s \ t b Previews ond Rpl Gr . tdde. rs Lose Secon . tratg t to Buffalo . end of this season. Ke:n is married un ran as ()icy a out Union Col- lege basketb~;~.ll players running TROY-A powerful Buffalo Uni-.• Buffalo scored three times in the RPI VS Union to the fm'Dler Miss Betty Horinka cross-country to get into condition. versity sent its first team in to second period, two of the touch- • of Schenectady. . • . .Since 1:908, Union's hill ·and run up 32-7 halftime lead and then downs being attributed to the (Continued from Page 1) ¥- • ¥- ~ dalers have won 86 meets and lost Reviews sent in its second team to stand generosity of the Engineers who This. line combination seems to be Hal Enstice, former Union foot- 43. This represents tbe highest win- off a determined RPI comeback were suffering from a bad case of a tough one to beat, with Chuck ball great, rates \Bullet\ Bill Dud- ning percentage of any sport on at 86 Field in Troy to gain a 39-21 fumbelitis. When RPI got done Abba and Bud Mills ready to take ley (University of Virginia) of the· the campus. victory last Saturday over the fumbling the score stood 32-7 at over at any time. LAST WEEK Cherry and White. halftime. The probable starting lineups for • Buffalo ..... SO RI'I .••••.•• 21 Although out first downed, 12-6, Both teams pushed tallies across tomorrow are as follows: Little Grldders Open Season at Morrisville Hobart - .... 20 St. Law•ce .14 by the Engineers, Buffalo used in the third period and the Eng~- Union R.I'.I. Union College's freshmen grid-ao•.-:------------- RMidldlebtury · 13 13 Hamilton · · · 0 c 1 LE Clark ~ oc 1es er . . De Panw ... 6 ~~~::a~~e ~~o:~e~t;?';I a~s~~~~ ~:_~s :e~1~~d :::i~!h~rol~~~c;si~ff~~ ~;!ira t~ 1~~~~~us: tre:~it~~~lb~P~n;~~e t~01~~~~~'!,-~~: th~n v~~~~~t~ee 8 fr~~~s ~:~e a;:~~~ ~ei~lf~~~ :: :4~ g~~:pl~in-:: ~ to outdistance the losers. scoreless. Whalen C Koch cause they will have equally im- up exceptionally well. Ed, White THIS WEEX The Bulls scored twice in the Buffalo rolled up 296 yards, 74 by Ten Eyck RG Patanode portant business ·at hand. Coach and Randy Or ham give Nistad two· Coast Guard at Middlebury initial period, ·to go ahead 12-0 in pass~s, while RPI had 198 yards, ~~r::O~ iijl; g~1filY Pete Nistad's footballers will in- hard charging backs. The main- ~g:~! !\ ~~::!li~on the first ten minutes of play. Both 72 Vla the airways. Strauss. Fletcher QB Byrnes · augurate their season against the stay up front is big \Red\ Grab- RPI at union of BUffalo's placements were WBeasdte RLHHBB Powell Morrisville Aggies at Morrisville, sky, a tower of strength at right Rochester at Tufts Anderson y t kl Vermont at Norwleh missed. Lundstrom FB Armstrong N. · ·ac e. Williams \at Bowdoin RPI bounced back to gain on a .::~:::=:::::::::=::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-ll~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::- 43 yard pass play from quarterbaak GOOD FOOD? Bill Byrnes to halfback Dick Powell. The first of three suacess- ful place kicks by Bill Frankenfeld made it 12-7 at the quarter. LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS ,;Service for the Sick\ CH!!MICALS - DRUGS Cor; NOTT TERRACE and STATE StREET For Cor Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. 'Plath 60 I Union Street A·UTO SERVICE Try Elmer•s Restaurant 149 Barrett St. Where Union Men Are Always Welcome SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Ag_ent on the -campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5616 114 STATE' Near FERRY SCHENECTADY. N.Y. l47 jAY StREn •' .. , The 'tvord is RUGGED! ARROW SPORTS SHIRTS FROM $4.00 If you need a couple of Wdrm and colorful wool plaid, flannel or cordu- roy shirts, come in and see our handsome assortment of Arrows. Arrow sports shirts c:ti\e noted for their warm colors; careful styling, and durability. You'll like (em! $4.00 up. NUSBAUM'S .. FOR ARROW SPORTS SHIRTS __,_......,.,..__, FASHIONED FoR fALL REDWOOD FLANNEL $10 Both these luxurious ARROW SPORTS SHIRTS ST. ANDREWS PLAIDS $10 Arrow sports shirts are 100% virgin wool and give the wearer the ultimate in comfort and styling plus warmth without bulkiness. Both are washable, too! All Arrow sports shirts are made with the same know- how that goes into your favorite shirts .•. the• best! ARROW •• SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR e HANDKERCHIEFS 41 SPORTS SHIRTS

i . ,I ·'. -,j 4 English Dept. Sponsors Writers For the first time in the history of the college, the English Depart- ment is sponsoring a group of dis- tinguished visitors from the world of literature and journalism. Two of them, Leslie N. Broughton, Pro- fessor Emeritus ·Of English at Cor- nell and· Donald Cameron, Librarian at Rutgers University, are Union alumni. Leroy J. Weed, a partner in Ginn and Company, is a trustee of Union College. Accompanying these men will be Alfred A. Knopf, New York publisher; R. M.· Sar- _gent, professor of English at Ha- verford College, Pa.; and Lewis B. Sebring Jr., of the New York Her- ald Tribune. Stag Dance Union students are offered an interesting way to fill Saturday night voids beginning Octobex· 16, when the combined youth groups of Albany's Trimty Methodist Church, located at LarK and Lancaster street, in Albany will inaugurate the first of a series of \Tri-Corner\ dances to be continued every week- end during the rest of the year. No dates will be i·cquired, and an ad- mission charge at 50 cents is made, The initial aft' air starts at 8 o'clock, and will featur·e the music ot Mal l'appin ar.d his eight piece orchestra. Un·ls are expected from Gmon University School .af Nurs- mg, Albany Teachers College, Mil- dred Jf:lley school and othet· aV!lil- able organizations. Ladies Cafeteria No, the administration building is not going to be Jlug up and transplanted. All that digging is being done to prepare the base- ment to make a cafeteria for the ladies, plus other needed improve- ments. When the construction is·· completed, the basement will con- tain three additional offices, some much needed storage space, besides the cafeteria. The job, which it. is estimated will take from a month to a month and a half, includes the. task of putting a floor in the base- ment, as there has never been one there, and the water-proofing of the building. Miss Russell Chapel Fare Thursday evening, President Car- Mr. Sebring will be guest atthae Roberts Talks to AlEE ter Davidson presented Miss Anna meeting of the Pub Club in ~ Russell, of the University of Barke- Concordiensis office tonight. To- Members of the A.I.E.E., at the ley Square, to a chapel filled with morrow morning, members of the meeting of October 6, heard a talk undergraduates and towns people, English staff will escort the men D R b · oy . ::;, o er·t::J, assistant head cf whA were attending the first \ltul- . around the campus in visiting !'echnical Personnel at G-E. Plans tural\ oft'ering of the college. Im-. class rooms. Satui·day afternoon they will at- tend the RPI-Union game and, afterwards, will dine at President Davidson's. There will be an in- ., formal discussion between Dr. Blodgett's English department and the visiting group in the evening. o--- P1·of. Hesson to Speak Richard E. Roberts, president of the Union College Society of Pre- Law Students has announced that the speaker at the meeting of the Society Friday evening, October 15th, will be Professor Samuel M. Hesson of the Albany Law School. The subject of Professor Hesson's speech will be The Meaning of Law. Professor Hesson is a graduate of Union College in the class of 1927 and was one of the honor students in his class. His major .as an undergraduate was the field of government and after his gradu- ation he was an instructor in gov- ernment for several years. From teaching he went to the Albany Law School from which he gradu- ated with highest honors as the first man in his class. After a short period of private practice he returned to the law school as a teacher. He is now looked upon as one of the leading members of the law school faculty. Future spealrers from Albany Law include Dean Clements, Mr. Godfrey, and Professor Semerad. were theli made for a dance to be ported at a great price for this neld October 23 at 8 o'clock at only appearance in the Schenec- rlanna Hall. Round and square tady area, Miss Russell's course in uancing will be enjoyed· at this af- music appreciation showed the rair, with refreshments following. depths to which music could go admission 50 cents to members and and the heights to which it can i5c to non-members and guests. rise. The talk made by Mr. Roberts The Grecian blend of \I'm Only :>tressed the fact that college years' a Faded Rose\ and her heroic fig- are merely a preparation for the ure in her flame colored gown pro- more serious business of attaining vided a base for mantle, surplice, ;success in chosen fields. Habits of and hat, as they were needed. work and study are as important as At one time Miss Russell was the academic ide of learning. associated with CJBC, the CBC ---o--- Loose Ends {Continued from Page 3) I can see no advantage in even keeping RPI on our schedule. At last season's grid mix our band was not even permitted to play. Every time the Dutchmen struck up a tune the RPI band would begin playing another tune. Even those of us who don't care for music, would prefer to take our bands one at a time. There are a great many more schools I would far rather see in- cluded on our schedule. What's wrong with trying to arrange games with Trinity, Amherst cr Williams. Please, just scratch RPI. The enrollment at RPI far ex- ceeds the enrollment at Union. It was just this fact that helped to beat the Garnet gridders last year. Far gt·eater depth in the reserve ranl{s of the Engineers permitted the use of entire new teams against the tired Dutchmen. I think that these reasons give a station in Toronto. For a number of years, she has sung with the Toronto Symphony Orchestra on their Christmas program. more than a sound enough basis for discontinuing athletic relations with RPI. Personally I believe that the Engineers have lost all sense .of sportsmanship. That is reason enough for me to want to drop any and all relations with the school. Give'em hell tomonow, and then drop· them from the agenda in the future. FRIDAY:. OCTOBER 15, 1948' G I Ele ctric is nat one business, but an orgcmixalion enera . . • · 1 lly all of many businesses, offering opportunlhes 'In VIr ua •• . H three G-E men :brief opporlunohes the prafess1ons. ere • h . ms expert the vacuum-tube specialist, offered the 'mec ams ' and the engineer. MECHANISMS EXPERT \'' John Payne (Cornell), who developed :he n;-e· chanica! hands for atomic rese~rch: Rad1oactrve isotopes create problems to del~ght ~he:heartand fire the imagination of any engmeer w1th a bent toward mechanisms. Developing pile 'service' mechanisms and manipulating devices offers• a real challenge-and a real opportunity. VACUUM-TUBE SPECIALIST Dr. Albert W. Hull (Yale), assistant director of the Research Laboratory: The use of vacuum tubes for controlling industrial processes is only be- ginning. One new tube, for example, that can take signals from 'electrical brains' and apply them to apparatus of any desired size is sure to promote wider use of engineering tools. STUDENT ENGINEER Bob Charlton (Texas), graduate of the G-E Ad- vanced Engineering Program: I am winding up three years of intensive study in General Elec:;t~;ic engineering courses-study that has required twenty after-work hours a week, and I'm not sorry far an hour of it. The A, n, and C courses, I feel, are good groundwork for an engineering caree1·. for fvrlber informal/on about a BUSINESS CAREEil with General Electric, write Business Training Course, Schenectady, N. Y.-a career in TECHNICAL l/E!DS, write Technical Personnel Division, Scheaetlady, ll. Y, GENERAL. ELECTRIC THE FINEST IN RECORDED MUSIC R. C. A. Victor Columbia Decca Capitol Featuring The NEW 1 'Between takes of my new picture, THE LUCK OF THE IRISH, I enioyed many CHESTERFIELDS. They're MILDER ••• LONG PLAYING COLUMBIA RECORDINGS Roberts Piano Company 203 State Street Corner Ferry Street WE KNOW YOU WILL .ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For 'HATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens gnd the Finest Gifts <Corner State and Center Sfa. GAZETTE PRESS Printers ~,...., ................ . .... .J It's MY cigarette.'' --r,;. r~ l'f~ :~;-;,,~~ ·· .. ,- STAR RING IN ''::{~.. ··· .. ···· .•.. , THE LUCK OF THE IRISH A 20TH CENTURY•FOX PRODUCTION Vol. . p F T A! weel! ton· mou: Gym for Unic dire< EHir ders• In H~;LrtJ eous Ellinl offers tunes \El c•.man read~ popul Lady aad' who makE kind In keyb• tres Johrr Ray pet,: SaX, : bone, and. the v won recor cap a.• throt In of tl: nett for ' are 1 comr: Benj. P. J Aron dlebt frate lng l time test. All tion prorr tion~ can~ shor· deta.i Sp that give1 the • perc: ance Kl AI gues Octc mon Kap imm gatn tern Phi Roa btdlc Will the: whic li:vh: vice heac pari gra1 K in vi in t Cur Oct< Car: A Con Oct por1 The is r par but of

1948' Founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 76. No. 6. SCHENECTA_DY, N.Y., ;fRIDAY, OCTOBER 22. 1948 PRICE 10 CENTS Prom Features The Duke CAMPAIGN BEGINS Student Drive Begins To Erect Field House . . Campus Group for Thomas Formed A student!! for Norman Tho:inas0~~~~----------­ Committee was formed. on T.uesday, Anyone who wishes to work for October 19, for the purpose' of sup- Norman Thomas in the few days porti111g the candidacy of Norman . re~alning before election are wei- Thomas for President. This group· come to join the Committee. .The is not affiliated with the Socialist group hopes that the entire stu- party or any other organization, ·dent body Will carefully think over but Is an independent expression . the ideas and .arguments that it o:f p_oiiti~l id~als of its members •. may offer. Prom Rooms Available T ll e P r o m Committee an- nounced late today that arrange,. ment,s nave bt>en made with sev- ei'aJ. downtown hotels for the reserving of a number of doub1e . rooms for \Football Holiday\ w~eltend. Details are available at the Student Activities Office. Psi UpsUon William Wa.rner, Gra.ha.m Ma.rtin, John Bowers, Edward Sutter, Mark Branson, Henry Bungart, William Conway, Georg-e Redi):lgton, Donald Rose, William Taylor, and Horace Van Voast. Sigma Chi Jim Musty, Roger Hancher; Dana Hanford, Bill Weaver, Rube John- son,'J)on HaskiQs, Bob Hockenbury. Sigma. Phi Edmund Sawtelle, Richard Leahy, Stuart Brunet, FN!derlck Reindel, William Gray, and Harry Gehman. Theta. Delta Chi Clayton Hathaway, Harold Tem- pleton, and Allen Bra:emer. .I

:I l .. i· I· , ... i I. I j, i i i I I I ,j , ! r ' ! l < f ' _, 2 Qlnurnr that in 4;6 games J?layed to date Union has won 33 · lost 9, and tied 4; of the last 8 games played Unio~ has won 4 and lost _4; and of the last three games \the years of R. P. I.'s largest expansion) Union has won two. Does this sound as though R. P. I. is out cf Union's class? Member Associated Col- Editorial Offi~ej \Yashbur!l legiate Press ami distt i- Hall, Union Co lege, Pub- If Union does desire to discontinue the rivalry, it Is unquestionably her ri5ht to do so, but to hide whatever the real reason might be, in the guise of \a degraded\ and \decadent rivalry\ and poor sports- m~.mship would be both unjust to R. .P. I. and be- neath the dignity of Union. butor of the Collegiate licatiou Ufflce, The Ga- Digest. National Auver· zette Press, 334 State St. Using Rer>resentalive: ;\Ia· Eutered In the Hchenec- tiona:l Advertising Servl<'e, tady Post OffiPe as s~c- Inc., College l'ubllshers ond Class :llall :>latter, Representative, 420 Ma<ll- sub.•cr.ption lOc a cop)', son Ave., N. Y. C. P1.11J- $3 year; delivered aay- l'm for continuation. of the tradition and rivalry us long as there is student spirit to carry it on. lished every Friday of the where in the United school year. States. George 'I'. Orick .......................... , ...... Edltol' Albert Corbo ......................... :.Uanaglug EtlltDr James }luri'ILY ............................ News Edltor Very truly yours, CHARLES C. PACE, R. P. I. '50 Herbert Saxe ............................ Sports Editor Robert HelnemiLiln ........................ Photo Editor Francis Jlleel!an ................... Clrc.ulatlon Mannget· Lambert Ginsberg ................... Business ~Innager Ed. Note: Here's what an RPI man thinks about our rivah-y. Let's have an expression of opinion from Union students. If you want this rivalry discon- tinued you'll ha~·e to do something about it. ISSLI•: EDITORS James F. ~l<'£'ourt non )!, l'rep;IPr Wolfgang Hll•nu•r Letters Dear Editor: H. K. S. Dear Sir: It is undoubtedly true that at Union we have ore of the best student governments of any eastern, col- lege. This makes me thin!{ that a misconception concerning our method of voting for Student Coun- cil representatives ought to be cleared up, namply that the majority does not always rule. As a student of R. P. I. and a visitor to the Union College campus this past weekend, I had occasion to see the Cor,cordiensis and to read with much surprise the column written by your sports editor, Herb Saxe. Perhaps a simple example will best illustr.1te my point. Suppose there are two vacant Student Coun- ~il seats and three can.cidates decides to run. l.fv<le:· the election system now practiced at Union, eech stu- dent votes for two candidates and equal weight is ,in'n to each vote. Therefore, if 100 stndonts vote in our hypothetical election, 60 might favor \andidate A and 40 candidate B for their first .hoices. If all 40 of B's voters and 25 of A's support ~andidate C as a second choice, and A's remainin-g J5 votes go to B. the totals for all candidates will be A 60, B 75, and C 65. It can be easily seen that 10% can control the votes of 60%. Mr. Saxe's opinion of \a degraded\ and \deca- dent rivalry\ seems to be based upon the raids and painting episodes which occur each year and the measures deemed necessary by the Student Councils of both colleges. This is no new activity, as he seems to imply, but an established tradition, as in- dicated in your paper, even in jest, by the \Little Known Fact'' that the !col is merely a shell of paint. If the two Student Councils are able to direct. the activities of the students in a spirited pre-game contest of painting certain items of property which cannot be damaged, the rivalry should become stronger in tradition and spirit. As for Mr. Saxe, he need not waste any self-love about campus daub- ir_,g, since Union did a remarkable job ot;t our Ad- ministration Building, steps, and bulletm boards Thursday night, twenty-four hours ahead of schedule. Fortunately, an easy corretcive can be found. If we give two points for each first choice vote and one point for each second choice vote, the totals will Lhen be A 120, B 115, an.d C 65, and the majority will once again rule. This is the method of proportional representation. As for poor sportsmanship, I have heard no one, other than Mr. Saxe, especially criticize R. P. I. nor in my two and one-half years at R. P. I. have I heard any criticism so directed toward Union. Mr. Saxe claims that R. P. I. is growing out of Union's class ar.d therefore Union should drop them from their schedule. In reply to that, I point out It is used constantly for reflecting majority opinion in various fields; one example might be the football polls conducted by the Associated Press each week. It would involve little extra work in a small college such as Union, but it would give much more demo- cratic representation. Yours truly, G. EMERSON MARKHAM, JR. The Happy Hour By James Baar GREAT HISTORICAL WRIT- INGS OF OUR TIME SERIES (No. 1)-Excerpts from the Jour- nal of Oliver Ivy '36 (Oct. 22-28, 1935.) TUESDAY. Oct. 22: Saturday we meet RPI, and already prepara- tions are being made for the tra- ditional pre-game clashes. I am on the Committee for General De- fense of Phi Delt Gate, an APP <auxiliary pasture protector) and this year I have finally made the Crush Troy Club. My roommate. Roger, is a scout, and yesterday he and three others mapped out the Trojan defenses. They painted up the RPI gym a little too while they were in Troy, but they didn't get far because chapel let out while they were working. WED.NESDA Y. Oct. 23: My com- mittee met this afternoon, and we decided to run a fire hose from the Phi Delt House to our station. Sic Murry, who I think goes a bit too far, suggested that we use hot oil; fortunately his motion was voted down. Roger went over to Troy again this evening; last night he tarred all of the windows in their admin- istration building. THUR:SDA Y, Oct. 24: Only two more games until the game: one more until the big raid. I wish that I could go over to Trdy to- morrow night, but someone has to guard the campus. We are all set rtoW, except for a few details, as far as the Phi Delt Gate is concerned. There will be twenty-two of us in all work- ing in half shifts throughout the night. The gate itself will be wired, blockaded with logs, and construct- ed with an opening for the hose. Murry pushed through a plan to keep two drums of gasoline on hand to ignite in case of a break through. I think that this is un- necessary. FRIDAY, Oct. 25 I Early :>Iorn- ingl: Roger just came in from a dorm raid. and he has four dozen suits and three RPI men out in his car. They have already cut the prisoner's hair, and now he and Murry are going to stencil \Beat RPI'' on them. Sometimes I think that Roger lets Murry influence him a little. Too bad about Flush Thomas; he got caught putting sand in gas tanks with Roger. SATURDAY, Oct. 26 (7:00 a.m.l: Back just to grab a nap before the big game. What a fight we had! Our force dwindled to four- teen, but the gate held. They wouldn't have gotten near it, if they hadn't cut through the lines at D Phi giving them a chance to cut off the water supply for our hose. It was Murry, I'm forced to admit, who saved the day by lighting a drum of gas. They never knew what hit them. \Ve ha\'('n't received too many re- ports from the men that went over to Tro~·. but there is a rumor that apepars to be fairly well substanti- ated that Union captured the Chi Phi House and cut hair for two hours straight. According to an- other report, someone, as yet iden- tified. drove a bulldozer onto the football field and cut out UNION three times before he was cap- tured. SATURDAY, Oct. 26 (10:00 a.m.): Murry just awakened me, and he said that the bulldozer story is true. Moreover, it was Roger driv- ing! I got some coffee. and every- one at Hale House backs Murry up. Unfortunately no one knows what has happened to my roommate. Digger O'Dell told me that the last time he saw Roger was just after nn RPI grabbed him. Digger said that they looked mad. SUNDAY, Oct. 20: So much has happened that I haven't had a chance to get it down on paper. To begin with, WE WON! And did we win. Everybody got so ex- cited that we only caught fifteen RPI men after the game. Fortu- nately someone had the presence of mind to bring a scissors. With the final gun, it was \every- body down to the VC,\ and we drQnk the bar .dry. Most of us stayed on until things shut down and then went out around town. Murry, however, had a few more drinks than most and went over to Troy. I am beginning to really worry about Roger, who has not ap- peared as yet. I did catch a glimpse of him at the half yester- day, and it was really hard to keep from laughing. RPI had the poor fellow all decorated with tar and a few other things. and he marched across the field at the head of their band. A joke is a joke. however; if he doesn't get back by tomorrow, I will start checking around. MONDA•Y, Oct. 21: All is baclt to nm·mal again, although there has been very little done anywhere to- day. We just talk and talk about the weekend. In regard to Roger, he's back, and I think that he is being a terrific sport. What a week- end; and, says, wait until next year! Items Culled From Exchange Newspapers As a regular feature, The Concordiensis will reprint each week items of interest culled from other student newspapers by Alfred Siesel who is in charge of our e:\change files. Articles will be selected on the basis of ftheir hwnor or their general appeal in tl1e academic world. Among the interesting things we. received in our mail box this week was a newspaper fr.om Iona Col- lege, New Rochelle, which was ad- dressed \Adelphi College, Schenec- tady, N.Y.\ largest venetian li!inds. Unfortun- ately, they are the worst looking specimens of pigeon-hood a pigeon raiser ever laid eyes on; but then, baby pigeons are about the ugliest of all birds anyway!\ The Niagara \Index\ tells lL'> that: \A law professor is a rare thing indeed; in fact, he stands in a class all by himself.\ year-old daughter of Wayne and Elizabeth Austin. In last week's article on student marriages, the Campus stated that Wayne and Elizabeth were married during the summer. The situation is even more embarrassing, for Wayne is minister of the Addison Church. The Steverui \Stute\ sent us a touching poem this wee!~: A girl attending Bryn Mawr Committed a dreadful faux pas; She loosened a stay · In her decollete Exposing her je ne sais quois. H. C. Trewy of the Colgate \Maroon'' tells us of the Freshman who went into the bathroom carry- ing a tube of Ipana toothpaste. However, he noticed that all the And finally the Wesleyan \Argus\ other students were using Colgate's this week printed a letter giving This bit of ornithology comes , exclusively and quickly hid his I the ancestry of one ·of the prin· tr-am the Knox College \Student\- own. Thinking that Colgate's was ciples in the forthcoming .marriage. \The Common Room in Old Main' Standard Operating Procedure, he It said: \His father is ... a white has an added· feature this month., sheepishly borrowed his' friend's. English Springer Spaniel from Sevetal small, scraggly squabs Portlan·d: his mother a lovely black squatting in their nest can be seen 1 The Middlebury \Campus\ writes and white Springer Spaniel from against one of the merlons of the this charming apology: Our humble Westfield.\ Let us offer our con- j)a.ttlement in front of the room's apologies are offered to the five- gratulations to th-e lucky dogs. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1948 Students Explain Choices ed folil' members of the student body why they Ed Not~: The CONCORDIENSIS this week as N b 2 The Socialists are represented by are going to support the parties of their choice ~n · t;:~a:pu~ for Norman Thomas; Angelo Pacelli, Hugh Montgomery, who is now organizing sen ~en tady takes the side of his party; and Bruce formerly a Democratic ward committeeman ~ 8 ~ ~=:cwan~ce Committee, holds up the Progre!!!sives' Wallace, a member of the Union College Stu en J, . officer in the New York State Young Republi· end of the argument. Eugene F. (Pat) Sullivan, I.: an 1 t but could not find time to write anything. can Club, was also contacted for the Republican VI·ewpo n ' . d d w s proclaimed by disastrous war by peaceful negotla- By Hugll Montgome ry In epen ence a · · t' · d fa'th between the . the Continental- Congress at Phila- ·tOns, m goo ~ , . The principles of the Socialist del hia. Thomas Jefferson chose. US and ;th~ USSR, with an end party, both in domestic and for- hi/ words wisely when he wrote: t?wai·d. s1gmng of the peace trea- eign affairs, come far closer to my ·'We hold these truths to be self- t1es, d1sa~mament on the part of ·own vieV\s than those of any other evident, that all men are created both. maJOr powers, control of. . party. These principles may be equal, that they are endowed by atom1c eiLer~y, and all the other bt·iefly Hsted as: Socialization of their Creator with certain inaJien- problems 'YhJCh ll:eep us apart to- basic industry and finance. com· able rights, that among these are day. I beheve that .the US, since prehensive social insurance, promo- L'.f Liberty and the !Pursuit of the d'eath of Roosevelt, has not tion of education, co-operatives, ..;a~piness.\ ' • ?egotiated in go~d fai~h, de~and­ health, housing, world federation The United States today is the, mg that the Sovie~ Umon agiee to broadened economic aid; and the weathiest nation in the world. It: our proposa·~s, _while at the same pi·evention of aggression, Com- has reached this state primarily, time r~-nazifymg Germany,. and m unist or otherwise, and its causes. through the efforts of far-sighted, supportmg governments hostile to And it is extremely significant that individuals who made \big busi- the USSR, r.ight on her ·borders. the past war and depression have c i B ks required littl-e basic alteration of ness\ possible. Our c-a.pitalistic de-. Coca-cola and· . om c oo these principles, unlike the made- mocracy has proved a success be- The Marshall Plan, and its identi- for-the-moment, chameleon like yond any shad_o\Y of a dou~t: . cal predecessor, the Truman Doc;:- platforms of the major parties and There are mJillons of families m: trine are instruments of this \get- the occasional protests of thivd the same United States today;' tough\ foreign policy and are for parties. But as election day ap- which look to the \pursuit of hap-, the purpose not of rehabilitating a preaches, I do not believe that it piness\ as a. _wild go~~e ,chase.; peaceful Europe, but of building a.n is necessary to argue these issues, There are millions of slaves to armed fort'i-ess and, at the same nor to point to the obvious per- life\ who live a day-to-day exist- time, providing US business with sonal sup-eriority of the Socialist ence. They are not adequately new markets. Tobacco, coca-cola, candidate compared to the others. housed, clothed, or fed; even the and comic books do not build fac- The one important question to an- right to have_ children is de~ri-ved tories nor feed hungry people, nor swer, and upon which answer to them. To WISh for utopia IS far does fim.ished steel and expensive insist, is, \But isn't a vote for f;om being an answer to problems coal furnish work for French labor. Norman Thomas a vote wasted?\ ltke these. . . No., I'm afraid that I canlt go Vote W.a,sted? . ~-owever, there can be le~Islahon along with the Dumans and The answer is a strong, emphatic Jnltla~ed that w_o~ld allev,ate the Treweys and participate ~n their No d suff_ermgs of_ m1ll!ons of peop_le. kind of \unitt\· I. believe th. at we . The only vote really waste s 1 is one for Dewey, for he seems oc!al security, unemp oyment m- can have a asting peace in the definitely elected, and only a coat- sura~ce, minimum w;;tges, and w-orlq, without appeasing Russia in tail rider has a plausible excuse maximum hours have already _be- the least, and have a strong Uniteq for voting for him. A vote for come law. These laws can be Jm- Nations, only if we can restore the Truman, despite the protestations proved and new ?nes ;;tdded. . USSR's confidence in the US by of hopeful, visionary Democrats, is The graduated mcome tax sc~le riddin.g our State Department and a vote for a leaderless, split party shou~d be regulated so those with Executive Branch of its present in- that has no hope for a majority 10 ':\ mcomes _would bear a sma_ller habitants, and replacing them by anywhere and has only the old, falls to provJde adequate housmg, men who sincerely want peace. government should sponsor a sup- . . . obsolete solutions for some of th8 plementary program I There are BilliOns for War most terrifying questions of the yet many problems f~r which there The \col~ war\ p~us the 80th day. A vote for any of the losing is not space to mention. Congre~s, 1s .r?sponsib.le for the candidates is an indication of In order to hope for the legisla- ?omestJc condibo~s. wh1ch are fac- where your support lies, an at- tion mentioned above and yet mg us today; bJI~Jons for a yrar tempt to influence government by maintain our present' system of econOJ:?Y a;nd no.thmg fo; h?usmg; pressure of an expressed support government, there can be only one reductwn m S?Cia! ~ecur1ty m~tead rather than by direct control. So choice of party. The Republicans o_f an extenswn; mcreased mila- in indicating support for Truman are reactionaries; the Progressives, bon, due to t~e Marshall P~an and one only endorses the amorphous, Socialists, ·and what-nots are radi- rear~ame~t,_ m_stead of_ pnce con- ambiguous, inadequate remains of cals; thus only the Democratic trol~, no CIV~lnghts leg~.slB:tion; no a once strong political force. party can carry on the work for a National SC1en?e· Fo~ndatwn; the A vote for Wallace, probably a better United States in which t Taft-Hartley B1ll which labor will protest and not a constructive ac- live. 0 really feel next spring); allld the tion, is a support for double- By B W ll \Red\melodramas, in which every- standard demagoguery, and, I fear, ruce a ace one is either \Red\ -or \Pink'' ex- for the aggressive policies of a I am ext.remely pro1;ld and happy cept Thomas, Chambers, Kersten, totalitarian state. to have this opportumty to explain Bentley; and Gerald L. K. Smith, For Thomas t othe reacers of the Concordiensis who is a harmless fascist That is To vote for Norman Thomas is to my reasons for supporting Henry the record of the last CongTess present the government with a :;vallace an_d the Pr_ogressive Party ·and will be tb,e record of the next great unified voice demanding con- m, the commg election.. My reasons one, whether it is Republican or structive, progressive action; it is llle _many, and can probably be Democrat. For, despite Mr to prove to the nation that social c~asslfied_ under the issues of for- Murphy's eloquent but misin~ justice and a rational approach are etgn pohcy and_ domestic policy. formed defence of the \newly en- ~iving, growing, not lost, causes; It Thou_gh, _theoretically, these two vigorated\ Democratic Party, if 1s to reaffirm fa·ith in the man who ~lassiflcatl~ns may_be separate~. ::s the rec-ords of the Northern Demo- stands head and shoulders above ~s don: b:v the B!-Parttsans, It lS crats in the last Congress were the clamoring politicians. Finally, ~m~?SSible ~ 0 do so in fact, since ,studied, one would find that most of to vote Socialist is to add one's Otmgn po~ICY ~!ways determines them voted to over-ride the Presi- strength to the groat current the ~ome~l!c poltcy. . . . dential veto of the Taft-Hartle which is !'Ising throughout the na- 1 ~ IS m~ fi:m convJctJOn that the Bill; most of them were in favo~ t~ons of the earth to achieve the ;na 1 ~ !~sue m the coming election of the present, inadequate housing timeless vision of the bortherhood IS t ~ Issue of peace or war, which bill; and most of them voted tu of man. I c~n e ~etermined by the US for- include Spain in the Marshall Plan. By Angelo Pacelli eJgn_ poltcy, despite what the Bi- Progressive Platform • On July 4, 1,776, a Declaration of, h!~i~~:n~h~ 0 ~~ ~~~e 0 ~~/~~~~~- ! The !CProt~ressdive Party is the on mue on Page 6) Famous Alumni Porphyry Henmurgle, Union '85 is credited with being the first man to invent the portable shoelace. Before his time, sl;:toelaces were cumbersome things, which ex- plained why so few people wore shoes. With due respect to Chester A. Arthur, it should be noted that he was not the only President of the United States to be graduated from Union. G. Paphnutius Stercor, Union 1840, was elected to · the Presidency on an anti-eo-operation ticket, but due to the poor com- munication facilities of that day, news of his election never reached Washington and it was neces·sary to slip someone close by into of- fice. We forget who it was. One of Union's most outstanding football players, Kell S. Calculus, never attended Union. He just happened to have a friend in the press box, who included his name in all his stories. George Eliot, Union '65, who is better kn~wn by his pseudonym, George Ehot, wrote many famous bool{S, including Romola, Ramela, Rasselas, and Rickyticky. His home is in Disrepute, Idaho. -St. Louis, Missouri, was founded by two Union men, Urban Lech and Ernest Gladgartar, both Union '33. They were looking for a place to set down their empty steins dur- ing a Psi U party. The first band to play at a Union prom was directed by an alumnus, Sprtzny Pseudovltch Kor- sakov, Union '12. Later Korsakov collaborated with Mischa R!msky lof Mischa's Tiresky and Rimsk~ Repair~ky Shopsky, 11 N. Broad- 1 way.) in a series of musical com- positions that still gain token ac- claim. Laddie \Hoot\ Mon,, Scotia ex- change student in 1837-38 now em- I played as a turtlemonger in Cher. Fu, China. He reports, in a letter recently received, that \Scots wha· hae, hae wha Scots.\ Thurible Cucurbit, Union '17. who wrote, \Six Who Laugh While Colf~n Bo~ls, WaB seen on campus Coffin Bo1ls, was seen on campus during the recent RPI game. He wa_s accompanied by his sons, Pnmus, Secundus, Tertius Quar- tius Quintius, and Momen'tum. Ga_rth Winterset. Union '60, raises· orch1ds, and sells them at cost to the ~e.edy in the impoverished com- mumtles near his home, the fa- mous Sans Bain. Good work Garth! ' Enough! Zufiel 1st Eine Plethora, prob- ably the finest philosophical work of th~ last_ century, was written .by ~ayble V!elleicht, Union '64 who ·Js known more notoriously by his und_erg~aduate feat of putting ~ohimbtne in Shopenhauer's soup w_h~n that worthy gentlemaz1 was givmg a series of guest lectures on campus. Gyre N. Gimbel, who really came f~om RPI, but claimed Union .as hJs Alma Mater, Is our only alum- nus known to have gone over Niag~ ara Falls without a barrel. The ?an_-ei he didn't go over the falls tn IS on display in the Geology Museum. Balaam Sass, Union '??, noted egyptologist, discovered the tomb of the Pharaoh Osmosis. Dr. Sass donated the mummy to the col- le_ge, where (students will give nicknames) it IS. a\\ t' t •. k uec lon.a e .. y nown as Joe Enzer. in~ollabora:tor's Note: Students th erested In forming a society for e. preservation and study of Umon's traditions, men and his- tory are invited to m~t on the t~p floor of the Not Memo:rial Liqrary on rainy Tuesdays, WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS . fo,. NATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens ~nd the Finest Gifts Corner State and Centor Sta. ·===--=-=~==-=--====.JI FAit FriC RPI W2C repu be I hydJ rod, sevtj cour Th threE from a:lon1 tions of Hj stan1 be ' quen rival en til' new! resei Ri the · repo: comi spot1 push day the 1 six soug thro· pain ing out and Cap1 this with Tc to tl on t bers Swe: on 1 1931 car didll wall ever COOl fron •

1948 by Bruce negotia· the an end trea- part of of. <Other to- since has not demand- agree to same ny, and to rders. identi- Doc- \get· are for a an same with uild fac- nor ch labor. can't go and in their t!;lat we in the in g Unite(! the us by and esent in- them by eace. 80th for the are fac- a war housing; instead infla- and con- no the will allld the every- ex- Kerston, Smith, That is the next or Mr. misin- ewly en- if n Demo- were most of Presi- in favor housing to. Plan. is the 6) was lectures came as alum- Niag~ The the f·alls Geoiogy ?, noted tomb Dr. Sass the col- give tionately Students ciety for of his. on the FJUDAY,.,9CTOBER 22, 1'948 .RPI Hits Union Defense, '''U'' Haircuts Predominate # Approximately thirty heads were shaven in the annual Friday night preface to the gridiron clash between Union and· RPI last week. The Freshman class, four mobile units of W2GSB, and an unusually cooperative gendarmerie effectively repulsed aH attempts to deface the campus. As close as can be reckoned, the cost of the victory, was one cylinder for· hydrauliG brake fluid, two headlights, one radiator, one piston rod, and a general loss of sleep. Temporary inconvenience to , · sevqral visiting undergrads from WiHiams should also be . counted. By Jim Bryson 'rhe Frosh were divided into three watches and stood guard from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. at each gate,, along the fence, and. at key posi· ticms on the grounds. The password of \Cookie and Sam\ was a con-· stant reminder to th!'l fledglings to. be valiant and fear the conse- · quences of failure more than the rival, although the operations were entirely under the direction of the newly elected Student Council .rep- resentati-ltes of '52. Efficient Spotting of Cars Hall. A direct line to WRUC kept everyone informed on the progress , of the campaign. ,. The festivities concluded with ~.a· ~omplete rout of all invading forces by 8:00 a.m. As far as car.. be de- termined, no classes were .missed by a;ny captive. ---01--~ StudentWives Meet Mrs. W.ilma Scott, Supervisor of of Parent Education in Schenec- tady, addressed forty members of the Union College Students Wives Club last Wednesday. The topic discussed was \The 'Social Develop- ment of Your ·Child\. RPI New Look Photo by George Woodruff Before and after an.unidentified RPI raider has his fashionable \U\ cut artistically executed. Doing the fine work are John Thomas on the left and Joseph Gardeslcy applying the scissors. The insert pictures Daves CJ•pmrine of station WRUC interviewing the captive engineer. Pre-Law Society .1 Cam·pus Dance Riding a steady patrol during the whole night was Dave Farrell, reporting every heavily laden auto coming over the Troy Road. He spotted and follo.wed the \big push\ between 4:00 and 5:00 Satur- day morning. The main thrust on· the part of RPI came at 5:10> when six carloads of 'Troy students sought to inftltr;~ote and storm through Dutchmen's Village and paint the scoreooard. The in.vad- ing force was picked up two miles DUt of the City by Dave Farrell and followed down Nott Street. Captives were taken wholesa-le in this sortie and promptly dealt with. with. Cider and doughnuts were served at the home of Mrs. Wilford H. Professor Samuel Hess·en of AI-. On Saturday, October 23, from Ketz, where -th~ meeting was held .. bany Law School spoke to the 8:30 p.m. to 12:00, the Christian As- Mrs. Robert Woods, president of Union College Pre-Law Society on sociation will hold a dance in. Silli- the group, introduced the speaker· \The Meaning of Law\ Friday in man Hall. A cordial invitation is and also announced that the next the English· Reading room in extenede dto all Union students. meeting will be held November 3, Bailey Hall. Richard E. Roberts, particularly Freshmen. A large 11t eight o'clock. It was also an-· society president, introduced Pro- number of girls from the local nounced that the guest 'Who will fessor Hessen who is an alumnus community will be hostesses. There speak to the student wive!! in No- of< Union of the class of 1927. will be dancing, singing, and re- vember wm be Mis~ Barbara E. Neil Hayes was elected vice- _ft_·e_s_h_m_en_t_s_~·-~-------- Hayden, society editor of the president in a business meeting Union-Star. held prior to the talk by Professor The Society plans to have other Radio Car ~ficient Officers Named Hessen. The lecture explained how guest speakers from Albany School our system of .law developed from of Law including Dean Clements, Officers and committee heads for the English common law. The Professor Semerad and Mr. God- this year are Mrs. Robert Wood, present day set-up of modern law. frE>y, Union Professor Richard Doty president; Mrs. Ralph Nestle, vice- was also dis.cussed by the speaker. 1 is the faculty advisor of the group. Too much credit cannot be given to the hams of W2GSB for passing on the descriptions and plate num- bers of RPI cars in the city. Art Swenson suffered severe casualties on the front of his automobile, a 1931 Ford, when. hotly pursuing a car that stopped quickly; Swenson didn't. Marty Werman, utilizing a walkie-talkie on a motorcycle, was everyplace at once. Warren Offutt coordinated the entire procedure from the ham station in Dewey • president; Mrs. Calvin Malinka, secretary; Mrs. Kenneth Male, treasurer; Mrs. Donald Stephensen, welfare committee; Mrs. James Pemrick, historian; Mrs. William Martini, employment, and Mrs. Stanley Springer, publicity. Pictures of the Club in itB v·ari- ous activities were taken by the Union-Star. • ItS a FREEMAN Shoe 'l'HEl FOOTWlilAR' OF SVCClilSSFVL MEN WEATHER-STRIPPED . DOUBLE SOLES . It's the new Scotch-wing Brogue with the nicest cobbler-stitched needlework in the heavyweight class. It's another Better Buy -by Freeman. - \ . - NUSBAUM'S • • 11 1 smoked CHESTERFIELDS between scenes while making my new picture, JOHNNY BELINDA, they're MILDER •••. It's MI cigarette. u ~.~~ JOHNNY BELINDA A WAltNER 81\0S. PJCTUR_B 3 Phi Gamma Delta Host As Dutch Parents Visit Son \I have never been so surprised in my life as when I first went into .an America.n drug store,\ said l\lrs. Sophie van der ;\lul'len All.Jcringk-Thijm, in an interview two weeks ago at the Phi Gumma Delta house at union College. :\Ir. and Mrs. Jan Eduard Alberdingk- Thijm spent the weekend of Oct. 9 . in Schenectady in order to visit their son. J. J. Alberdingk- Thijm, .,-,·ho is a guest under the Bowdoin plan, of the coHege and the Ph1 Gan1s. The Albcrdingk-Thijm's ·been in the C!;JUntry for weeks and intend to stay more before returning to home in Laren, Holland. have~---- ·-~- ----- - Dutch St{]res Bare three three their \At. present.\ said Mr. Alber- d!ngk. \the shelves of Dutch store:o are quite bare and it is like being in heaven to be able to walk into a clothing store and purchase vir- tually anything you wish without ration coupons. Although all the war damage has been removed from Dutch cities and we are re- buildi-ng as quickly as tpossihle, we have not yet reached a semblance of n0rmalcy as far as supply of luxury items is concerned.'; Mr. Alberdingk has been to the. United States once before. How- ever this is his first visit to Sche- nectady and Union College and he consider-ed it \so restful and peaceful after the noise and con- fusiun of ~ew York.'' Since noth- ing similar to our campus exists in Dutch universities, both Mr. and ~irs. Alberdingk were amazed at the Union College cam- pus. The Alberlingk's expressed sur- prise at the luxury of the fra- ternity houses on Union's campus. Although the students in Holland live in houses and clubl:1, they are not as well furnished as an Ameri- can fraternity house. To quote Mrs. Alberdingk, \they seem almost too nice for students.'' Television Let-Down The visitors from Holland saw tlleir first television show last weekend. Although they were very pleased, it was a bit 0f a let down since they thought the pictures would be much clearer. Mr. Alberdingk is vice president of a Dutch firm which raises rub- ber, coffee, and tobacco in Java and Sumatra, the Senembah Com- pany. In this capacity he spends a great deal of time traveling be- tween Holland and the Dutch East Indie~. Because of the close in- tertwining of Dutch and American foreign policy in this area, he ex- pressed great interest in American politics. He would not make any c0mment, however, on the Novem- ber election. Mrs. Alberdingk is wondering why the hand of irony waited un- til she reached the· United States to single her out. She. has spent the greater part of her life dodg- ing bicycles, the common mode of transportation in Holland. Yet, she was knocked down by a bicycle in the middle of Times Square, probably the only one within a five mile radius. No injuries other than rumpled dignity, however. Both Mr. and Mrs. Albedlingk expressed amazement at the Amer- ican way of life, the size and beauty of our cities, and our high standard of living; but admitted that \it will be nice to get home to Holland.\ •

'· ., I !: '! I ,•1 ''ii 'ii :I !I '·I 4 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1948 RPI Ripped, 35-14; Gridders Stalking Hobart LOOSE ENDS Dutchmen Out-pass. Out-kick. Out-rush~ Out-run and Out-tacki~-E~gi~~ers~ Garnet Should :Top Statesmen by 1.!::::::== Herb Saxe===.:. Vv'h<>r I broa~h~d t hP idea of disc\ntinumg c,ur rivalry with RPI early last v. ef:k. tht! n.en I ap- !JrfJa\b\d ur. tr•o r·arr.pl!.- thoue:rt the idP& wa• go\d. terrific spirit\. opinions. wh '· le rn'· .. ; 1.; ~u·tt i nr:' ,,~tt (,f h~tnd··. \'\·n~ \ t :. p1r•d r<·t>lY t ·, \'f'Y q1JPT\Y ~0\V '\11 ~t t t- 1-) r• \- h ~~ ·v r· •<nmrlly thra\hF>d \.-.:'\ E\' g i n ,. r· rq ~: f· I ' u ,. r- h n1 \ n \'\ <·0mplf!Piy 'lptntr n<.: \ThPv're not too cJil! for us.\ \The nvalry makes for were thP changed In part l r0ncur hPartily. The spirit displayPd durir g and before Saturday's ~arne r<:ached an all- time high. Hcrwever. I cannot agrPe with the opinion that RPI is not too big for us. The Troy engineering school has an errollmr·nt 0f ov•·r 4n00 now and ie aiming for n larg\r Pnrnll- mPnt in. thP fnturP Rut thnt is n'>t the deriding factor. This br in;:s us fare tr, far\ with the \epirit' ar,giP I am disgust~d to think thot it takr>s such a mis- guidc:d 1 ivnl1 y t•, r·rr·\t\ •pirit at Gnion. \\'h:,t 1- tb· r!iffr r<·nr<> bP- twren sp!r:t nnrl immaturity? I wonder if t hP \'~Pl\'\Prlly intelli- gent colke;e m'·n from eithr-r school can tell the diffrrPnce? • All these wonderful. wom'erful rules were drawn up to keep the boys from playing dirty. Result: RPI men raided the Union campus at 6:30 in the rr.ornirg and paintPd Payne p-atP with ronflng paint It's ridiculous tc, h:,ve to draw up any rules to govern a college rivalry, but the damage done by the \little boys\ from Troy rf'moves this rivalry frvm the comic stage. The usual sportsmanship of the EnginePrs asserted itself during the game when, again, as in the past, the RPI band waited for our band to start playing and then chimed in themselves. Result: parcdemanium. Our football announ<'er, AI Raber, claims that it wa\ this contest be- tween the b~nds that caused him to come out with hiH oarcastir rP- markR bPtWP<'n th\ pPrl\d~ Rut AI isn't the only \ltt\.IF> boy, you big, bwave Dutchmen\. HPsult: we're no better than the Engineers. It's great to heve spint. Our teams df'sPtve it. But they don't need anything as 111-dirr·dPd as that whirh has sprung up from our assoclatir•n with RPI. We don't need RPI. Every year this rivalry throws mud in the coll<>ge's f\r·p \\ a rr·sult of stu- dent shenanigans. Now i\ the time to t<·rminatr this stupid, grudge battle. Wr gave 'em hell. Th .. y can't call us quiters now. We gave 'em hell, now let's give 'em. the bout. Cherry and White! Falls Apart Before Garnet Linemen By Bob Horn The rampaging Union Col- lege footLall team trounced a dazed RPI squad, 35-14, Satur- day afternoon, on Alexander Field. This was the third Gamet win in four starts and enaulecl the Dutchmen to aveni{e last year's 33-24 set- back at the hands of the Engi- neers. Fast Start The Dutchmen started rolling right at the opening gun, driving down to the, visitors 15 yard line in ten plays. Best's fumble halted the Garnet temporarily as RPI re- coven·d. However, t h r e e plays later, Pete Del Santo blocked Arm- strong's kick, which rolled into the Pnd ?one for a safety and two Garnet points. A Strauss to Buscino pass cli- maxed a Union 45 yard drive to give the Dutchmen their first touchdown a few minutes later. ·wade converted and the Dutchmen had a 9-0 lead at the close of the llrst quarter. Hit 'em Again The Unionmen seemed to be able to score at will, as they pushed acr0ss two more goals in the sec- <•n<l J><•ric,d. The Garnet front wall was opening up huge holes in the Engineer's. line throughout the en- tire rontest. Outstanding example ,,f the Dutchmen's blocking prowess ramP on George Best's brilliant 67 yard run hack nf a Cherry and White punt for n touchdown. As Hr-~t rrossPd thr> goal line, not a single Engineer was on his feet. <Continued on Page 5) FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 191 l L. G. Balfour Co. I ~\\\\1 rJSO\\~ sADGEs sTEINs RINGs \J !Jlt JAY sr.JlWIUu JEWELRY GIFTS FAVORS STATIONERY PROGRAMS CLUB PINS HEYS MEDALS TROPHIES Write or Call CARL SORENSES WATERFORD, NEW YORK Telephone 11 Fl3 GUJ:RRA'S PHARMACY Fountain Prescriptions Sundries 600 Union St. Cor. Barrett St. II 166 Jay Street II FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 1115 BARRETT STREET GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X·BAY FIT'l'ING 245 STATE ST.-since 1898 . Upper left: AI Wade puts one directly between the uprights for a Uriion conversion. Upper right: He doesn't know it; but Dean Armstrong (23), RPI's one man team, is about to be slowed down considerably by an unidentified Dutchman. Lower: Ken WhalE'n getting off another of his devastating punts while Al Wade provides the interference. Photos by Heinemann :~ --~~- -- -- l Morrisvme Deals I Frosh Gridders A 1 Disa~~~!~:i!! Loss 1 Coach Pete :'\istacl's fresh- ; men footualler:; \\'ill attempt r to avenge last week's heart- ! breaking ~-2 loss to the ::\Ior- risville Aggies when the lit- 1 tle gridders tackle the RPI 1 fro.:;}, tomorrow on Alexander 1 field. The ){ame !Jegins at 1 2 p.m. Despite the defeat last week, Coach ~istad can have few re- morses about the team's showing. Leading 2-0 with less than five min- utes to play, a 70 yard wind-blown punt bounded away from halfback Randy Orham. dter thr latter had toucJoed the balL The A~gies re- covered on t:nion's 3-vard linE'. Two plays later the winn~rs scored. As expected, Orham. and Cap- tain \Red'' Grabsky at tackle Trinity Blasts Hobart in 52·0 Slaughter ~~nsee~i~~s ~~j~~ 1 ~~t \~~:ro:u~:a~~~~i HARTFORD, Conn. - Unbeaten ~ and the team is expected to be in Trinity trounced an underdog Ho- ther .managed to score at least once good shape for tomorr0w's game. bart, 52-0, last Saturday for its in every period. Nistad has had his little Dutch- third straight win. The loss was The Statesmen were on the very men drilling on winged \T\ plays the second in three starts for the short end of a 27-0 score at half this week. The linemen did not Statesmen. Previously the Hobart time, have their blocking assignments gridders had defeated St. Lawrence In the third period Trinity down as well aB desired. Trick de· 20-14, and had dropped a 39-0 rout score twice again, once from the 14 fenaes set up by the Agg1es often to Buffalo. yard marker and once from the 48 confused the Garnet. Trinity, leading the nation's yard stripe. 1 Tomorrow's runtest with RPI I .twuing 1:elentlessly and un- i svmpathetiCally tmyards. Ge- l n·eva. the stubborn Dutchmen, cumpo.sing one of the best Gamet elevens in recent w:arl> will seek their fourth ~•;in i~ five starts tomorrow af~emoon, when they line; up l){ain::t tne Hobart College I Stat.:smen_ in the 33rd clash ''PtwePn the two colleges 1 ~:nee 1896. The D~tchr.1en frel'h from their 1 c. pres.sin• rout of RPI, are fa- ·. ul et! lu beat the not too potent :r >h .:·t sq:Jad. Last Saturday, the :t::.te>:1:<'n absorbed a 52-0 drub- t•ir.g at ihe hands of a powerful and undefeated Trinity squad. .Sin.·,• it has been admitted by the Hobart griq. mentor, Eddie Tryon, that he held his team back in the face of the powerful Trinity aggre- gation. Garnet coach, John Mc-- Laughry. is not putting any weight on the lopsided Hobart defeat. Although favored by a narrow margin, the Dutchmen will be fac- ing some tough opposition at Geneva. Fortunately the Garnet gridders were not plagued by injuries last week. ~nd \ill go into Saturday's fray with a full complement. Al- though last week's win looked E\ood on paper, Coach McLaughry was very dissapointed in the mo- tion pictures of the game. A seri- 1Us lack of backfield blocking was. apparent and this week's drills were aimed to correct this ailment. Coach McLaughry was very plea~ed with the game played by his forward wall last week. If that line clicks as they did last week- end against the Cherry and White, Hobart should be swept away by . the Garnet wave. Previews and Reviews LAST WEEK Bowdoin .... 34 WUllams 0 Trinity ...... 52 Hobart 0 Tufts ....... 2G Rochester .... 7 Zlllddlebnry .82 Coast Gna~d· 0 l:nion ....... 85 RPl ......... 14 \' ormont .... 14 Norwich o 0 berlin ..... 13 Haiilllton ·:: : G small colleges in rushing, piled up Facing the Trinity subs in the C~nd tht: ~oVen.!\ t ti ~,ff ''•th W!l- 323 yards against the hapless final quarter, the exhausted States- Iiams comprl>e the H·~t of th·e I Statesmen last Saturday and fur- men could do naught. ' , frosh sch~dule THIS WEEK Hamllton at Haverford :'l\orwieh at Coast Guard St. Lawrence at Champlain !>iampoon at Rochester Tufts at Williams rnlon at Hobart Worcester Poly at RPI ON THE DOUBLE for your ARROW DOUBLERS! The one shirt with the convertible collar that looks good open or closed. ARROW DOUBLER $3.95 COME 1N TODAY and pick out a couple of these classic campus shirts in white or blue oxford cloth especially tailored by Arrow for college men. Sanforized-labeled for perfect washability. J:loublers come in regular collar and sleeve lengths, too! NUSBAUM'S ....__ __ .,...__ FOR ARROW SHIRTS ARROW HDOUBLER'' $395 Fine Gordon oxford cloth in a two-pocket, convertible collar shirt makes Doubler a peren· nial campus favorite. JRROW SHIRTS and TIES HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS UNDERWEAR e SHIRTS / s The purpo at U1 gram The 1 alllbUE for e All hav• athle1 (fresl bers, Ul a invite tive s far tl Tuss footb Dar Harr: Publi of th New Brool Tht comp Pray, Laug (phy! This came on t1 cular back mucl Crc Bela1 nath race he c time for 1 Ra Plea ran spen Univ ber tean: tain ary He i Yag1 (h yeaJ half: Geo1 Scot a st: intl ball coac he, ball agel and U1 Geo wbe \T\, opel Hal his lian a 41 net Geo Uni rea~ day Gee unf turJ a ' dut ski r: Fr~ waf sch of the \Al Ma of Un of cro vel '37,

un- Ge- hmen, best up clash their fa- potent ay, the drub- squad. by the Tryon, in the Me-· weight narrow be fac- at last Al- Iooked mo- A seri- was_ drills very by If that week- White, by. 0 6- 1 0 14 0 ••.• G rd et; FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1948 5 Soccerites Drop Two; HarrierS Face Colgate -0 _ · RPI Swam·ps Booters, 5-0;j SCOREBOARD Champlain Steals 3-2 Win I by By Graham 1\:lartin I He Led The Way I Ketzmen Unbeaten After Routing RPI In 2nd Meet L!:::==Dick Roberts . The Union College soccer team, despite improvement, has still to win its first game. The last ten days have seen two I The Block. \U\ Society, whose t h 1 d t t T I t Fr 'd h RPI purpose it is to furthel' athletics more ma c es p aye on , one a roy as '1 ay, w ere . at Union, has an ambitious pro- won by 5-0, the second last Wednesday, lost to Champlain by gram planned for this coming year. a 2-3 score. Higi1ly elated after trampling the rivnl Rensselaer run- ners last week, 21-31, and with a grim determination to li:eep I their unmarred 2-0 record intact, the Garnet harriers \\'ill travel to Hamilton tomorrow to face a strong Colgate Univer- sity squad. Despite the fact that the race to- ®------- The big event of the year is the The faults so apparent in the @1..~--------- motTO\\' is expected to be one of the Ketzmen's hardest tests. Colgate's season record indicates that the Dutchmen have a better than aver- age chance to stay on the 1Jluck a=ual dinner which is scheduled opening Williams game are still N • K k for early March. far too prevaient. These are in- OCJCJin• . noc e·rs A 11 people w h o . accm·ate clearance kicl's from the· have won any · backs to the forwards, and a deft- Run Strenuous athletic award s nite lack of ability on the part of I side of the ledgl'r. The Red Raid- (freshman n u m- the forwards to ke!'p pos~tion long Practice Sessions bers, AUA, Block · enough to start an offi'nst\'£' move- en; have lost to Cornell and Syra- 1 1 <:Uoe uy pet f<:<:t 13-!0 o~urcs, unJ With only one more week of I 1 huvc defeated ::lump~un Cull~ge in U) at Union are ·· · ment. invited. Prcispec- 1 tive speakers thus ' far this year are: Tuss McLaughry, football coach of Dartmouth;' Harry Markson, Publicity Director of the 20th Century Sporting Club, New York; Jackie Robinson of the Brooklyn Dodgers. * * * In the RPI game, the co-ordina- tion gained by three seasons of ex- perience enabled the Cherry !lnd White to keep up a constant at- tack despite a determmed Garnet defense. That the score was not doubled was due mainly to English and Hopkins, our terrier-like half- backs, and of course Don Kramer and \George\ at fullback. The Champlain match was a more cheerful story. The score at full-time was a 2-2 deadlock; so two five minute \quarters\ were played, the deciding goal being scored late in the last period·. regular F.all practi~E' left, the 1 thetr unly vktonous outing. veteran and aspirant Lacrossemen 1 1 \.:nlUn·s lull and dalers·, although under the direction of Coach Vtc 1 1 they h..t\e Lt>L'n puw~rful enuugh to Stareynski have be!'n applying 1 1 wtn thte~r llr~t t wu meets, wen' themselves rigorously before the :;euously luuupned lust weL'k by Winter layoff. having th~tr ex-captain anti last Every weekday for the past Photo by Hel\emann season's number one runner, Ne\\ t month the \noggin knockers\ have Here is Ray Bl•laJlger, captain Culver. run a nail through his been drilling diligently, and when of the G~lJ'Jtet harriers, as he foot m a practice session before the football squad is away, Satur- crossed the finish line last Satur- the Rens:selaer meet. It is ex- day practices are also held. Much day aften1oou to cop first place pectcd thut Culver will be back in satisfactory progress has been for the Dutchmen in 26.50 min- shape tomorrow, however, as the noted, and the men are anxiously utes, to lead the Garnet to a foot is healing nicely. and expectantly awaiting the ad- 21-84 victory over RPI. Captain Ray Belanger, Bob Gar- vent of the Spring season. lock, and Don Wright have been in For the last week of practice the Classes Battle For top form for the Dutchmen so far Lacrossers will concentrate on l T 11.. S this season, and with the addition \Calverts .. Lead Football League; Finals Ne·xt Week The Culvc1 t;;, an independent ~'1uad, muv~J into the finals of the intramural {ouch football tourna- mL•nt thi:o weelt by defeating Beta Tht•ta Pi last Monday. Thl' Cal\·rrts won the contest in an overtime period after the regu- lation game ended in a scoreless deadlock. The tic was settled in a gardage duel Four teams remain in teh oppos- ing bracltet, and a tournament will be held to determine an opponent for the Calverts. Phi Gamma Delta opposed the Betas and Chi Psi played Delta Phi this aftemoon. The winr.ers of these encounters will meet next wee!' in the semi- finals. The Union College Tower Club, composed of Dick Balch, Fran Pray, Bob Callander, and John Mc- Laughry, is one of the strongest (physical) organl7ations on campus. This gallant group built the new camera tower (next to press box) on their free Sundays. This mus- cular group deserves a pat-on-the- back for their eonstruction of the much needed tower. Our forward line was working much better and much credit goes to the center forward Kinnis, who sco1;ed one of the Garnet tallies, for doing some unorthodox moving to get and keep the ball and for keep- ing his men moving. Ernie Smith supplied the other goal from a pen- alty shot. stickwork. The last few days will aCrOSSe r0pny 00n of Abe Lal,shin, the number two give the newer men a chance to Class rivalry will reat· its head man on Champlain College last him. Diamond returned onto the play under .pressure, as \keep for the \noggin knockers·· during year, the squad has shown excep- course 20 yards behind Belanger, away\ which is a form of competi- the first weelt of ~ovembcr. when tiona! hal.tnee against all opposi- who had takE'n the lead. At the tive practice training, will be the annual competition for the tion. finish Belanger increased his lead started. For practice in shooting \1887\ lacrosse trophy will add In thl' RPI-l:nion meet last Sat- to 80 yards, so it is probaple that goals, sections of an old wood track color and spirit to t he Union urday, run over the ·!.7 mile Union he would have won out in any have been set up near Council Campus. COU!\S(' Diamond of RPI led the event. Bob Garlock sprinted in Field, and several regular sized The annual rivalry for the cup pack up to the fom mile point of from the gate, and managed to goals have been marlted out along 1 was discontinued durin_g the war the race. At this outpost the num- tnkC' second place by 30 yards over the length. Shooting was one of 1 year:;, and resumed durmg the fall her one EnginN'r missed a turn Diamond, who was third. Wright, the wealmesses of la.st years squad, of 1946, when the class of 1950 and and ran off the course to lose his Culver, and Lakshin clinched the and this training is expected to a combination of upperclassmen lead. although the turn was clearly race for the Dutchmen by finish- * • * Cross Country Captain Ray Belanger, 5'6\ 130 lb. 24 year old native of Schenectady, ran his best race last Saturday, against RPI as he captured first place with the time of 26:50, to insure another win for the Garnet hill and dalers. It is interesting to note that the pitch of the field was tilted toward one end and that all goals were scored playing down hill. To make an analysis of this sort and leave out all mention of the spirit in which these games were played would be grossly unfair. You can be sure that lack of wins is not due to a lack of \guts.\ No team can be built up from near scratch in three weeks and when the enthusiasm and verve of the Garnet team is supplemented by more skill as individuals and as a team, the results will be very dif- ferent. prove its value. played a tie game. marked and Belanger shouted to ing fifth, sixth, and seventh. --------~----------------------~--------~~--~~~------~-- Ray is a graduate ('42) of Mont Pleasant High School, where he ran cross country and· track. After spending a half-year at Syracuse University where he was a mem- ber of the freshman cross country team, he enlisted in the army. Cap- tain Ray entered Union in Febru- ary '47 and is an, economics major. He is married to the former Shirley Yager of Schenectady. * * * George \Break-a-way'' Best, 19 year old, 5'9\ 183 lb. is the left halfback of the Garnet eleven. George graduated in 1946 from Scotia High School where he was a. star a.t football. He entered Uniqn in th.e fall of '46 and played basket- ball and football. In '46 former coach, Mel Hein, told George that he was too small for college foot- ball Instead of becoming discour- aged; George put on more weight a.nd tried harder. Under Coach McLaughry in '47, George received his big chance when the Dutchmen switched to the \T\, and the left halfback post wns open as the result of the loss of Hal Eustice in the RPI game. In his first starting roll against Wil· Iiams, George scored twice, once on a 40 yard sprint, to lead the Gru·- net to a. 14-0 win. Since then, George has been a mainstay on the Union eleven. He was one of the reasons RPI went .home last Satur- day mourning their 35-14 loss. George gave the capacity crowd an unforgettable thrill when he re- t1Il'Iled an, RPI punt GS yardS for a T.D. Along with his football duties, George is Captain of the ski team. * .. * Director of Public Relations, Fran Pray (University of Mass.) was a 120 pound guard on his high school football squad and a member of tht: polo squad in college. He is the former editor-in-chief of the \Ar1erican College Public Relations Magazine\ ••.. Assistant Director of Public Relations, Bob Callander, Union '41, was a letterless member of the Hamilton College ('37) · ski, cross-oountry, and soccer teams. : . . Director of Financial De- velopment, Hal Van de Car, Union '37, played lacrosse ('34-'3_7), and ran SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See \(our Own Agent on the Campus for Complete He~d to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Near FERRY cross country ('35-'36) at Union. Hal, who was one of the standout faculty athletics at freshmen camp, received honorable mention on the '37 All-American lacrosse team. • * • Odd and- Ends Bob Markes (Union '48) is J.V. basketball coach at Middletown 'High School, and: the Ellenville lllgh School J.V. squad is coached by Norman Schwartz (Union '47). Both Bob and Norm played varsity bas- ketball at Union in '47 •••• Union scored two T.D. without g.aining one first down in ilhe second half of Saturday's battle with RPL • • . George Best's 63 yard punt return was not a coincidence, but a well praoticeid play on the pail't of the wihole Dutolmlen team. • • • Cap~ tain Ray Belanger od' the cross country team is having his best yeail\ tbis season. Ray finished; first against RPI last Saturday, beating out the favorite from RPI. • • • The gloonrlest place last Saturday afternoon was IJhe Troy section of the press box. ----0--- R.PIGame (Continued from Page 4) In dadition to his runback, Best, 1 managed to chew up some 70 yards on 13 tries through the line for a 5.4 yard average per try. The Gar- net wall was terrific. Iil the second period, Scotty Jackson, capped a 64 yard ma,rch by going the final 23 yards on two reverses through the left side of the line. A second Strauss to Buscino pass, Buscino's catch was sensational, gave the Dutchmen an additional 6 points. In between Garnet tallies, Dean Armstrong elusive RPI back man- aged to squeeze through the Gar- net defenses for RPI's first tally. At halftime the Dutchmen were still sitting very comfortably on the heavy end of a 23-7 score, Two more Garnet tallies in the third quarter capped the scoring for the Dutchmen. Following Best's stellar runback, Cookie Sherwin re- covered a Cherry and White fumble on the Engineer's ten yard line. An eight yard smash by Best and a 1 two yard plunge by Wade gave the Dutchmen their final goal for the afternoon and a 35-7 ~dvantage. The Dutchmen fumbled deep in their own territory in the final period, which set the stage for an- other 12 yard run by At·mstrong for RPI's second and final tally. i Saturday's brilliant win netted I the Dutchmen more points than they had scored in any previous game this season. THE FINEST IN RECORDED MUSIC R. C. A. Victor Columbia Decca Capitol Featuring The NEW LONG PLAYING COLUMBIA RECORDINGS Roberts Piano Company 203 State Street Corner Ferry Street GAZETTE PRESS Printers .~.. ~www~ww\\'...., •\ ,_ ...... ~~ Parker :Sf' worldS· most wanted 1_2en with leaders in government and business, the ans and professions-Parker \51\ is the preferred writing instrument. Actually, 83 sur- veys in 34 countries show Parker to be the world's most-wanted pen. Here is a pen of flawless beauty and balance. Precision-made throughout. The 51's exclusive alloy point starts instantly-paces your swiftest thoughts with ease. What's more, you never need a blotter. For the \51\ writes dry with new Superchrome, the ink created for this pen alone. See the famous \51\ at your Parker dealer's today. Choice of colors, custom points. Pens, including the new demi-size, $12.50 and up. Sets, $18,75 to $80.00. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis., U.S.A.; Toronto, Can. •• •• •• •• . • IN THE HAND OF DR. GUILLERMO BELT-Dr. Belt is Cuba's Ambassador to the United States and her permanent United Nations delegate. Like many other representatives, Jze used a Parker \51\ to sigll the new lllter-American Defense Ti·eaty. By this pact the 21 American Republics pledge themselves to mutual defense in case of attack. $25 CASH GIVEN AWAY~for interest- ing, true stories about the Parker \51\ Pen. Base it on your own experi- ence-or relate the experience of some friend. $25.00 for each story used. Just report the facts. Stories are judged on facts alone. All letters become our property-cannot be re· turned. Address: 'l'he Parker Pen Company, Dept. S-47, Janesville, Wis. Copr. 10«8 by Tho Pa$or Pen Comllfon''

FRIDAY, OCTOPER 22, 1:948 6 Talk on East Play Day Soon Davis Throws Verbal Bull Wallace · Drive Begins (Continued from Page 1). Dr. John S. Badeau, president of the American University of Cairo, Egypt, and a Union alumnus of the. class of '27 will address Union stu-. dents and others interested, en the topic \Behind the Headlines in the Middle East.\ His talk will em- phasize the present confliCt in Palestin1'1 which he has had oppor- tunity to observe firsthand during his twenty years in the Middle East. The talk will ·be given...... in Memorial Chapel Wednesday, Oc- tober 27, at eight o'clock in the evening. This lecture is another in the Wednesday evening progran;s spon- sored by Union College this year. Two points chapel credit will be given to college students for at- tendance. The Union College Mountebanlts will be host to nine area colleges in a play festival to be presented at Hannah Hall on October 30. A series of three one-act plays will be presented by Hartwick College, Oneonta; Russel Sage College, Troy; and Union College. Sociology was the approach used • by Professor Arthur K, Davis in . and the failure of the party . to completely disavow the commumst discussing current election issues influence has hurt it badly. Fal- in Memoria!l Chapel Thursday. The lowing the o~d New Deal policies, platform of the Progressiv-e Party Pi'ogressive are bidding for the was the topic ih this fourth num- votes of liberals. The .party calls ber of a series of Union Colleo-e .for the extens~on of .minimum . . _ , · \' · wage, more soCial security meas- Admission to the performances is free and all students are invited to attend. The casts, crews, and observers will meet during the afternoon to rehearse certain technical details and then wi!I be guests at a din- ner in Hale House, where a promi- nent theatrical personage will be the ma,in speaker. Following the dinner the three plays will be pre- sented. A discussion will follow. Hartwick College will present \The Valiant\ by Holworthy Hall and Robert Middlemass, directed by Richard Fallon. Russell Sage College will present \The Purple Doorknob\ by William Pritchard Eaton, directed by Miss Marion Teter, director of dramatics at that college. The Union College Mounte- banks will do Tennessee Williams' ·'The Last of My Solid Gold Watches\ with direction by Jack- son Davis. The Mountebanks cast includes Robert I. Miller as Uncle Charlie, William Herman as Bob Porter, e~nd Steven Enquist as the Negro porter. pohtiCal assembhes. Professor ures housin\' and even partial pub- Davis who is the head of the de- lie bwnershfp of \Itilities and es- partment of sociology int-erpreted sential industries. Strongest argu- ments for the foreign policy sec- tion .of the Progressive platform is the fact that the bi-partisan ef- forts of the past have been quite inadequate. the aspects of the campaign in terms of long range trends towards political parties formed on class· differances. Bull ThroWing The United States is losing the moral leadership of the world be- cause the fear of impending change which is opposing new innovations in foreign and domestic policy. Pro- fessor Davis concluded by saying that the American tradition of a free expression of ideas still in effect will offer a method of be- . ginning change. o-·--- Alumnus Talks On Far East (Continued from Page 2) only party whose platform deals with specific details. Some of these details are: efforts for peace; end of ·the \cold war\; .aid to Europe through UNNRA; no aid to the present governments of . Gree~e, . China, Turkey, and Spam; diS- armament, free trade agreements . with most' cour.tries of the wQrld: end of cartels and monopolies; re- . peal of the Taft-Hartley and ~.x­ tension of the Wagner Act; leg~s­ lation to end segregation and dis- crimination; minimum wage_ of $1 per hour.; extension of Social Se- curity and an increase of bene- fits to $100 per montl1; more pro- gressive taxa tior..; exc~ss profits tax· no profits in war time; hous- ing' (low cost and low rental): federal aid to education; health program·; national science founda- tion; wages for women equal to those of men, if doing the sam<> work; government ownershf,P o~ railroads, and an end to Red witch hunts. Ir. short, PEACE. SECURITY. AND ABlJNDANC~ for the people of the US. That Is why I am supporting Hemy Wal- lace and Glen Taylor and the Progressive Party in November 1948. TAILS Union has taken f.ar more from the college- than he can ever repay to it. Th(' cost of putting a stude~t through a four year com~se IS roughly double the actual. tu~tion. paid by the student. This IS . a chance for every studer_J.t to help the college· who is helping him,\ stated Mr. Van de Car hi lau:ilpb,- ing the campaign. Pettro!tize CONCORDIENSIS Advertisers! Shoe Cleaners and Dyers BaU's Inc. Rebuilders 633 State St. 204 Union St. PHONE 6-3456 Call Ball and Ball Will Call · TUX Dr. Badeau graduated as a Bachelor of Science in Civil Engi- neering from Union in 1924 and since then bas received his Bache- lor of Divinity from Rutgers after attending New Brunswi ck and Columbia for further studies. Union College awarded him an honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity in 1942. Dr. Badeau has bad much experience in the near East. He was associated with the United Mission in Iraq for eight years and following which he was associate professor of Religion from 1936 until 1938 in the University of Cairo. As Dean of the College of .Arts of the university, Dr. Badeau was active until 1945 when he ob- tained a leave of absence to work as director of the Office of War Ir.formation for the Middle East. Just prior to his duty with the Am- erican government he was ap- pointed president of the University. Representatives from Hobart, R.P.I .. Albany State Teachers Col- lege, Siena, St. Rose, and Skid- more will observe the production and will be included in the discus- ilion. Plans are being made to in- clude these colleges in next year's group. The public gets the bull and the candidat-es get tomatoes with the candidate getting the best of the bargain, the Professor said, in this American method of blowing off steam which none I'eally take seri- ously. No panecea is offered by the Progressives, while on the other hand it is not a Mascow dominated organization. he stated. Technolo- gical advances and the industrial age in general, with its unions and large corporations, have all been bringing about a trend toward social planning and modification of private property. These changes are pointing to organization of political parties on class lines. Evi- dences of this trend are the present division of parties claiming to rep- resent labor, liberalism, capital, land owners, farmers and others.' The split in the Democratic party he said, will allow Dewey to tiptoe Mr. Robert Everest, Uni_on '37, gave a talk in Bailey Hall at 10 p.m., Tuesday evening, October 19, on certain phases of United States- Philippine rrlations. Mr. Everest was well qualified on this subject because he has sp·ent seven years in the Philippines, several of them as a Japanese prisoner of war. When at Union, the speal(er was a in. letterman, president of his class, A labor party is in the books for president of the Student Council, the future, Prof-essor Davis assert- and recipient of the Bailey Cup. ed. Whether the disorg.anized Demo- ·After graduation, he accepted a cratic party or the Progressive job with the Standard Oil Com- party or even a yet unformed group pany, with whom he has since been I will repr·esent this class of people affiliated. FOR FOOTBALL HOLIDAY Lecturing in this country all of this year Dr. Badeau will sper;d several days in this area. He w1ll be on campus all day Wednesday for any meetings with groups of the student body who wish to gain information of his work in the Near East. For the Finest IN MEN'S CLOTHING CHAS. HOLTZMAN & SON 259 ~TATE STREET LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTI TERRACE and STATE STREET For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 60 I Union Street AUTO SERVICE TRI CORNER DANCE AT THE TRINITY M. E. CHURCH Cor. Lark & Lancaster Sh'ePt'> ALBANY, N.Y. 8:30-11 :30 Every Saturday Admission 50 Cents REFRESHMENTS II The Festival originated last year 1t Russell Sage to promote a fur- th('r knowledge of college drama- tics and to discuss various prob- lems that arise in the theater. Each vear one of the participating col- leges is host to the others. is for the future to tell. In his talk, Mr. Everest stressed I Davis Criticizes the necessity for the United States to maintain good trade relations The Progressive party does not with the Philippines and the good I have a broad base, he criticized, will of the entire Far East. 1 AT Ottavianolls Sartorial Bar ... 114 JAY ST. OPP. CITY HALL. On the air-ALL GIANT FOOTBALL !;?AMES-Station WMGM-1050 on your dial-brought to you b T Y he F. & M. Schaefer Brewing Co.' New York I Vol. D T 0 has Elec· well Fest dinir Fe~ res en leges prese Russ' Inter vi ted In stu de oppo: bank Willi of 1\.! presE giver form eighi the : ond nine cone Fe last even pieS> at e Satu prod wori mas: \ThE Prit, is g Mis~ Mou Lasi Ten· by J and p, Sat1 gue: Fes· basi :M whc of t Kil' Jan sett ersl Eli< strc hPlj E Tm sul1 Jac Eli• as tivc offi Bil Bo: I: Te: wll Fe: dUI C~l J wr tOl th Cc a11 til th 4-1 8-1 .ra in T: A al n1 :M tc n: v v tl t: h c .. :·./, .,

1). rom the to .student is tuition is a: to h~lp g him/' 1aun()b,- St. Call. HALL. -..' tS Founded at Union C11llege in 1877 Vol. 76, No. 7 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1948 PRICE 10 CENTS Drama ·FestiVal To Feature Abel, One-1\ct Plays ••\,__ ·_rn_e_ekend Do_in_us_-ll Invasion of G~ads For Homecoming FRIDAY Walter Abel, farnous broadway actor and film .star, who has been seen in such productions as \Mourning Becomes Electra'', \Wingless Victory'~, and \Mermaids Singing\ as well as numerous :films, will .address members of the Drama Festival tomorrow in_ the Hale Hou·se dining room. dining room at 5.:45. · ~·---------~..--.- ·Football Background ~.~------------- By Dick 'Roberts Dick Roberts, staff reporter, has ing the season with a 5 win-4 loss written upo'n request a .. short his- record. Also in 1890, William Hy- tory of Union college football for land became the first trainer of a the Concordiensis.-Ed. note. Union College football team. The The year 1886 sa'!~' the Union captain of all the early teams College foobtall team compete on acted also as coach because of the an intercollegiate basis for the -first lack of a fulltime coach. time. The Union eleven wound up In 1891, the Dutchmen defeated the season with one win over RPI . Syracuse 75-0 and In 1892, they won 4-0, and one loss to Albany Medical the New York League Pennant 8-0. (comprised of Upper New York A five game schedule was ar- State Colleges). .ranged in 1887, the darlt point be- In 1893, Fred W. Allen,( graduate ing a 94•0 loss to Williams College. and captain of · the '92 squad, The complete schetlule included·: donated his service to coach the Albany :Medical College; two games team. T. Mc'i'hompson, Princeton against the Ridgefield A. C.; Cor-· '94, was named coach in 1894. nell, and Williams. The Albany· The best season up to that time Medical College game was played was achieved in 1898, when Union to find the strongest men on the won 8 games and lost one. The medical team for use on the Union · DUtchmen made a bad showing in Varsity. 1902, when they lost 9 games, while In .1,889, Union was downed by . ·winning none, scoring only 5 points Willi-ams 130-0, but to compensate for the complete season. this loss, the Garnet tied Rochester A dark cloud settied over football University 0-0. The Garnet\ team ·at Union, in 1905, when right half hit its :stride in 1890 beating Syra- ·back Harold Moore dfed as a re- cuse twice by big scor-es, and· end- (Continueil on Page 4) 1:00- 5 :00 P. M. 1:00-10:00 P.M. 1 :30- 5 :20 P. lVI. 3:00P.M. 6:00P.M. SATURDAY 8:30-12:00 Noon 8:00-11 :50 A.M. 9~30 A.M. Registration at Wells House-or Registration at Hotel Van Curler Visits to classes, laboratories, aRd college radio station Meeting of the executive committee of the graduate council, ln faculty lounge, Hale House Dinner at Hale House Registration .at Wells House Visits to classes, laboratories Weekend Begins This afternoon, the arrival of the alumni marked the twenty-sixth anniversary of \Homecoming Weekend\ held this year on October 28, 29, and 30. Over 700 alumni are expected, setting a new record for attendance. Over the years, the annual get-togethers have become increasingly popular. --------------------------~ As in former years, the alumni 10:0.0 A.M. 12:00 Noon Open mee~ing of the graduate council, Old Chapel. All alumni are invited. Me('lting of the board of trustees, presi- dent's office Prom Price ·To Increase will visit classes, laboratories and various student activities. An open meeting of the Graduate Council, the Kappa Nu groundbreaking ceremonies, and a meeting of the Board of Trustees of the college are featured. 2:00P.M. 4:15 P.M. 4:30 P.M. 8:00P.M. SUNDAY 11 :00 A. l\I. Luncheon at Hale House. Speaker, Meade Bmnet '16, vice-pretident Radio Corporation of America, In- ternational Division Football and cross-county - Union vs. Williams. . Reception and tea for alumni and faculty at the home of Dean and Mrs. Huntley, North College. Guest of honor will be Miss Anne O'Neill Beattie. Ground breaking ceremony, Kappa Nu Fraternity Mountebanks play festival, Hanna Hall Service in l\lemorial Chapel. Preacher, Dr. Robert Russell Wicks, chaplain of Hamilton Col- lege The word this week on \Football Holiday,\ Union's fall prom featur- ing the m;usic of Duke Ellington, is this: get your tickets early. In efforts to facilitate final operations and arrangements, the. Prom Committee announced Friday that the price of ducats will jump to $8.40 at midnight Wednesday. Until that time, however, they will remain at 7:20 per couple. The week-end will have its light- er side too. Teas will be held in most of the fraternity houses on Saturday afternoon and it is ex- pected that beer will .flow in them on Saturday night. On Saturday night there will be an informal dance in the Alumni Gymnasium and the Mountebanks' will hold a ·play festival in Hanna Hall. Reserve Early Likewise, prom chairman Bill Hartnett advised all students to make reservations for their dates at local hotels before the last minute rush makes it impossible to secure ruomo. The curnmittcc hal' on call a total of 75 double rooms at the Mohawk and 20 at the Van Curler, which may be obtained at the Student Activ:i.ties Office as long as they last. National Hook-up In addition, Hartnett announced that final negotiations for radio time have been completed. The Na- tiOnal Broadcasting Corporation, through the facilities of station WGY here in Schenectady. will broadcast Duke Ellington·s music direct from the floor of Alumni Gymnaoium between 12.05 ·and 12:3Q p.m. on Friday, November 5, the night of the dance. The pro- gram will be carried on a coast- •to-coast hook-up. Other Ff>.atm·es The Prom itself, which will lasi . The alumni had been gathering for years prior to 1923, but that year signalled the beginning of the serious aspect of the event after a suggestion by the Rev. W. N. P. Dai]ey, '48, that the alurhni affair be utilized to acquaint ihe grad- uates with the teaching and work of the faculty. There were ap- prOJumately 72 men in attendance on that first Homecoming Week- end in 1923, called then College Day. \Homecoming Weekend\ was suspended in 1941 because of the war, and resumed in 1946. To Sponsor Movies Union College Mountebanks and the Department of Modern Lan- guages wtll sponsor and present movies e\·ery week beginning Mon· day, :'IJ .l\\ember L These movies for students, students' wives, faculty and U.eir families, and employees of the College only will present a series of film revivals alternated with foreign language films each week. The transformation of Union col- from 10 a.m. 'till two in the morn- lege's Memorial Field House feom in;;. is only a part of the \Football a stylized architeces drawing to Holiday\ wef'lu•nd. Also induded a solid reality awaits the result of I on the schedule ar(' the Union- fund-raising campaigns already in I :.iiddlebury football game at Alex- progress among Union alumni and ander Field, n display of \Bent soon to be launched on the campus. :.liddlebttry'' In you t 8, half-time $400,000 is necessary before ground award pres~ntations and fraternity can be broken and- the actual pro- house parties on Saturday night. This Monday and Tuesday at four o'clock each afternoon and seven-thirty e~ch evening J\1ounte- banks will present an English film \Stairway to Heaven\ starring David Niven, Kim Hunter and Raymond Masse.v.. The films will be shown in Old Chapel and admis· sion price will be fifteen cents. November 15 '·It Happened Here\ with Claudette Colbert and Clark Gable will be presented. Other fear lures C'Oming in<'lude \Brief En- counter,\ \Man's Hope\ and the Australian -film \Overlanders.\ The films are being secured through the cooperation of Mr. Max Feller.- man, father of a Union student Stanley Fellerman. ' ject begun. It has already been _predicted Hanna Chairman that more people will attend the The student end of the campaign_ \Football Holiday\ Prom than anv is co-Qrc;lin!l.ted under chairman other Fall formal in recent history. John Hanna. Organization of a Freshmen, With the status of \Committee of 200\ is virtually \Social Sophomores\ for the week- completed and subordinate leaders end, are expected to bring the over- named. all total close to the 450 ·mark es- Ken Whale;- will be il:i ch~rge of tablished by a recent Spring dance. the drive among fraternity men. ~--o·~-- George Lowe and his colleagues will circulate among dormitory Dl .rt to 'Fly as KN residents, and Harry Petrack will . . . · . solicit through student activities. D . • H B Schenectady is noted for the lgs Ome ase On the alumni front, Harold Van C.ity Lures Cited · · · · de Car, the college's director of variety of its attractions, but _only· certain of these would appeal to a Iota chapte.r of Kappa Nu located financial developm·ent, reports that at Union College will hold ground- committees -organized by states are healthy growing boy of the sort . that inhabits our American colleges. breaking ceremonies as one of the actively securing pledges, frequent- We have made a selection of ap- highlights of the Homecoming ly in excess of the tentatively-asked Week-end Saturday at 4 :30. Alumni 150 dollars. proved Schenectady pastimes, care- and ~;~tudents will witness the be- Every Union student will be con- fully calculated to please the col- ginning of the new fraternitY tacted during a two-week period, lege student. The inadequacies of houses at the site of construction and asked -to sign a card pledging his budget have been given due on Lenox Road near the college financial aid. Seniors will be asked consideration. brook. to give $50, and other undergradu- On Sundays, it is considered de As a resuit of a post war drive ates will be aslted for $25. All rigeur to stroll along the Mohawk to raise funds the erection of the ·pledges are to be paid by June so. and spit at fish. This pasttime has KN house is the first step in the 1950, and may be paid in convenient endless ,permutations. One could college program to bring on cam- installments. The installment pay- spit at one's favorite variety of pus all fraternities now located out- ment method reduces the per diem fish, or try for the largest, or see side. Mr. Harry Kaplan and Mr. cost to less than five cents. \Obvi- how many different kinds one can William Jaffe headed the drive for ously, n-o financial burden is being Q.it. Bring your date. KN which was founded at Union in laid o:n anyone,\ declares the chair- On Saturday nights, there are 1917. ' man. many opportunities for pleasure. Dr. Max Simon of Poughkeepsie Watching the fat men phi.y hand- !1-S a representative of the found- and others will be among the ball at the YMCA, slamming the ,1ng members will address those . speakers. Chaplin Victor C; Brown shutters at Renee's, running into witnessing the ceremonies. Dr. will give the inv.ocation. Repre- the Planters Peanut Store and Carter Davidson, Mr. Garson Meyer,. sentaUves of the -collllge boar.p of yelling \Nuts!\, timing the colour KN national president, Walter trustees, city of Schenectady and changes in the fountain in the Doran, Inter-fraternity president, Iota alumni will be present. park, taking flashlights to Proc- tors, are only a few of the possi- bilities. During the week, on your--free evenings, you could try asking for steam .sandwiches in the White Tower, biting p~destrians, picking fights at Nott Terrace football games, or cursing the Schenectady policemen in foreign langua,ges. Watch which language you pick. Of course, there are also the standard campus amusements like seeing how many books yo-d. can get out of the library in a single evening, or sneering at the iacrosse team, or throwing wet towels at Fred Parks. · If you get really desperate, you could attend the various meetings on campus. The student coun.cil has tb,.lj highest Hooper rating, but for all-around humor, you can't beat the Board of Managers. The Tax Committee theoretically .has no open sespions, but no one notices an extra man or two. If you are careful, you can vote, too.

2 .II~: . I FRIDAY, OCTOBER . 29, 1948 For Your Information By }arnes . Baat· Q.i,nurnr The Happy Hour Regjstration for make-up tests. to be given on 11 . g These are all, of course, only a Monday-Tuesday, November 8, 9 must be completed Last fall I .paid twenty-five dol- they were actually a hot se 1ll few suggestions which could be at the Office of the Registrar before five o'clock lavs for my books at the. Campus outfit over there, they would he adopted by the. bookstore as a _p::-rt Tuesday, November 2. Students must obtain at the Booltstore, and I felt at that time pushing novelty equipment, masks, of a new and b1gger merchand~smg Registrar's Office a slip to be sign·ed by the in- that I had been badly victimized. and the like. To my k:no.w!edge. program. Furthermore, there is no structor giving the course and return the slip to the This week I bought a package of there will be many parties on· question of the fact that such a Office uf the Registrar for the Dean's signature. cigarettes there and discovered campus tomorrow night. '0'hY .program would be a true good ffor Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Coll~gia t~ Digest. National Adv~r­ tising Representative: N<~.­ t!onal Advertising Service, Inc., College l'tjblishers Representative, 420 MacH- son Ave., K Y. C. Pui.J- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial Offlee, Washbur11 Hall, Union College, .Pub- hl'ation UfHl'e, T'he U;.1~ zette Press, 334 State St. Entered in the ::Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- om! Class l\1ail Matter, sub~cription JOe a cop;,·: $3 yeai~; llelivert.:d any- where in the iJnited States. St d t · d t · · that I had been and \'hy. This doesn't the bookstore sell the tdea it t 1 u en s are reqmre o pay a regtstrahon fee of \ 11 the the entire commun Y a arge. d II I th ·week the bookstore t's decor·att'no\ of costume affairs and th.en se · d I d t one o ar un ess ey present an excuse for illness n Prices would, an o no exag- from Dr. Arony or were absent due to an authorized for Christmas. .- costumes? It's their damn co - gerate, drop overnight. activity. Christmas decorations in Octo- servative policy everytime! It is all up to you then, Mrs. T k f h H · bet·! What could be more conserva- This however. is not all that is Jenkins. I have done my.· best to ic ets or t ·e amtlton football game will go tive than that. Now that I think overloo' ked. Mrs . .Jenkins need not un ~ale at the Gymnasium Office on Monday, No- b ter do everything that I believe any- b Th . about it, last year they began wait for holidays to be a · oos one could do. The ball is now in vern er 1st. e ttcket sale will close Friday, No- decorating for Easter in early \Vt-th· a capt' tal B. All yea_ r ro.und vember 12th at 2:00 p.m. y your hand's, and it 1s up to you to February. Briefly, they have re- the bookstore could be sellmg ma·n get in there and boost. The first Student Council sponsored contribution duced the year to a two holiday- big-go-items. i·f Mrs. J. would get a dance of the year will be held. in the gymnasium gift season, and, in order to make little ahead of the game. WhY Saturday from 8:30 to 12:30 .p.m. with Freddie Gray's ends meet, it is necessary for them. doesn't the bookstore. for instB;nce, orchestra. Everyone welcome, to ·overcharge on books. carry official Union forks, lmn~es,. Ueorge T. Orlek ................................. Etlltot' James Bau.r ......................... .\ssod1l1e Etllt.lll' Albert Corbo ......................... 3Ianaglng Editor James .Murray ............................ News l't!Itor Herbert Saxe ............................ Spurts Editor Robert Helnemi\Jtn ........................ Pltoto Editor Frauds l\leeltan ................... l'lrculntlon :Ununger Lambert Ginsberg ................... Busine•s l\lamtgcr Please understand that this is no spoons; official Union c~mpmg criticism of the capabilities of Mrs. equipment <sleeping bags, flmt a~d 1- \Vhat will be the quotas of veterans Jenkins in the role of manager. steel sets, tents. axes, etc.); offi~lal and non-veterans? She is honest, efficient, and sin- Union furniture; official Unwn cere. Her trouble is only in that clothes? 2- \\'hat \'l'ill be the quotas of students she is not a booster. Naturally I Party gags and jokes is a_nother and faculty members? have no objection to Mrs. J. per- suggestion that I would hke to DV Questionnaire- Fun control of Dutchmen's Village will be assumed by the College November 15. The transfer will eliminate the divided rule which has existed for some time and which has been both frustrating and annoying to mar- ried students who have been passed back and forth 'between the lllunicipal Housing Authority and college officials in efforts to gain admission to the Village. 3- Will one..:bedroom aparhnents be re- sonally, but when the whole matter offer. Why not carry those? ~he~ affects not merely myself, but my I was at a party at the Pht Pht served for childless couples, or will friends, then I feel that some ad- House a Williams fraternity, last those with children be allowed to vice should be offered the good spring·. they made a terrific hit occupy them? woman. with martini dribble glasses. Two .t-Bv exactlv what 'cri'terl'a wl'll req.uests . For any true go-getter, her fault years ago the !'ntire Rutgers \ \ is obvious. By decorating for \safe campus was convulsed by sorr:e for admission be judged? bets,\ like Christmas, the bookstore sophomorPs who put \whoop!e G-What exactly wlil be the procedure for. is cut out of the gl\avy that could cushi\Ons\ in the chapel. be brought in through taking ad- Naturally, advertising is the big applying for admission and for periodi- vantage of the big selling days that thing for any driving organiza- cal checking on the status of applica- come in between. Juststo cite two tion, and there are many things It can be said in favor of the Municipal Housing Authority that no mot·e than the normal amount of political favoritism has been shown during the period 10f its connec- tion with the village. tions? for this fall: Sweetest Day and which can be done for little cost Hallowe'en. in this line. One splendid idea is We do not think it unreasonable fo1· us to ask the college to set forth a plan by \Vhich it will govem the village. We do not think it unreasonable for us to request answers to certain specific questions. We are heartened by the announcement. that the college will have full responsibility for the village, for we.foresee -a-n honest ad- ministration of college housing. In calling for an outline of the plan by which the college intends to run the village, we hope to ease some of the confusion and bickering which have existed since the erection of the dwell- ing units. From Greener Fields As a regular feature, The Concordiensis will reprint eaeh week items of interes;t culled from other student newspap!'Ts by Alfred SiPsel who is in cha.rge of our exchange files. Articles will be selected on the basis of .f!heir humor or their general appeal in the academic world. ' and Union. noting that this rivalry' nouncer an entirely impartial, fac- 1 has degenerated into an unhealthy tual observer? Or would you call situation of sniping and open war- it sporting for an announcer to be fare between the two schools. So a spotter, calling plays and organ- far, so good. izing defense as · waB the case at Now, Mr. Saxe is suffering from last year's lacrosse game at Union. an advance case of Pot-Calling- Descend from your pedestal. It Kettle-Biaclr. He lays the blame is folly to assume that either side for this unhappy state of affairs is without fault. But we do most upon RPI. and implies that Union earnestly believe that, while a joke men, being gent.lemen, would not is a joke, this tribal warfare is stoop to cummit such vulgar atroci- most ridiculous. By Alfred Sie!iel The Rensselaer Polytt>l'hnic We received in the office mail a copy of \The Concordiensis,\ mouthpiece of someone on the staff considering some queer goings on of late in the editorial column. This paper contains a column on the sports page, to wjt: \Loose Ends\ by Herb Saxe. This gentleman tal,es issue of the long athletic rivalry between RPI ties as painting and kidnapping. If lour) memory serves (Us) The Holy Cross Tomahawk right, it has been Union who drew The Question of the Week: In first blood in the last few ~·ears. the Smith Brothers' Cough Drop Any action on RPI's part has been ad, which one has the Toni? retaliatory. True, we !lave been The Bona Venture at fault at times, as you say. We (Contributed by a Freshman) know that it is impolite for qur Sophomore-A person who is so band to louse up yours while you cruel that if he saw a lemon are playing. But, Mr. Saxe, would drowning, he wouldn't give the you call the public addt·ess an- lemonade. The Reader Writes To the Editor: Alas! The Concordiensis has placed itself squarely behind the current drive to erect Wyatt's Wig- wam as a memorial to the alumni who lost their lives in World War II. I wonder how carefully the staff consideredo the sagacity of this move. The former of this. 'October 16, the v. earing of buttons by all em- was proclaimed by Mayor O'Dwyer ployees stating specials for the day. as \the only big gift holiday be- I 1 A Chicago outfit manufactures tween Father's Day and Christ- I these for stores in \collar mas,\ and thousands of successful \chest and \back\ sizes, and they merchants climbed aboard the can be procured at low cost in Sweetest Day band wagon. Where quantity.> Another big pusher is in all of this was Mrs . .Jenkins? the use of demonstraters outside If she had been a real plugger, of the store in booths here and signs would have been displayed there. With luck the cooperation of with catchy sayings and the book- faculty members could be gained, store's shelves would have been but I would suggest that, if this is stocked with holiday specials. tried. only instructors who could Hallowe'en is this weekend;· and, easily work a demonstration into again, where is the bookstore? If their lectures should be approached. :Oue to the unfortunate misjudg- ment of whoever· handled the proofreading of this column last week the ending of Aliver Ivy's ve• port on an RPI weekend was ex- purgated. The original document follows: MONDAY, OCT. 21; All is back to normal agai:n, ·although there has been very little done anywhere today. We just talk and talk and tallt about the weekend. In regard to Roger, he's back, and I think .. that he is being, a terriffic sport about being- cast'rlated. What a weekend: and, as fie says, wait un- til next year! Whoops! In its issue of 15 October, The Concordiensis reported that a women's cafeteria would be built in the basement of the adminis- tration building. That report' was in error. A repvesentative of the . comptroller's office, ·explaining to the reporter who wrote the story why certain excavation was in progress around the foundation of the administration building, stated that a women's \rest oom\ would be collstructed·. The reporter heard the word as \restaurant and in writing the story further translated the word as \cafeteria.\ Much emphasis is being placed on the \first step\ aspl'ct of the drive. At some indefinite date after the construction of the field house. Mr. Van de Car will, I assume, an- nounce a new program to raise money for a respectable library to replace the wierd monstrosity known affectionately as Nott Me- moriaL AC'cording to the Con- cordiensis pep-talk last week, he will approach OTHER sources for 'l!hese funds. \Vhen that is com- pleted, <and poor Chester Arthur can hide no longer behind the ivy- covered wam, the new director of financial development, <for Mr. Van de Car will have long since passed away), will announce another drive to raise funds for the improvement of various laboratory facilities, or perhaps a new Bailey Hall. By that time most graduates of Union Col- lege will be insisting that they are Harvard men and changing their addresses often enough to lose con- tact with the director of alumni relations. might be interesting to discover just what a poll would reveal. Perhaps a questionnaire should be mailed to those persons expected to contribute. This questionnaire should not ask: Are you or are you not in f·a vor of building a field house? Rather, the question should be; Do you favor the construction of a new library, (large enough to accommodate the \outcast library\ that will never reach the shelves of Nott Memoria]), new laboratory facilities. or a new liberal arts building. three important projects that would do more than merely take up space on an already with- ering campus, or do you favor the erection of a beautiful field house, a gold-plated popcorn stand, or an exact replica of the Taj Mahal to combat the home-sickness experi- enced by our Indian Students?\ We've proved .,. I • ,-' . What is the greatest need of Union College? Is it a library, a new liberal arts building. or a fil'ld house? Are the pre~ent laboratory facilities adequate? Is Union Col- lege an educational institution or ·a playground? What assurance do we have that, once the field house is a reality, enough money can be raised from a pledge-poor alumni to take that extremely vague Step Two Yours for a better Union, JERRY F. O'NEILL, JR. Dear Editor: This is to register a profest with the repre!!entatives of the Demo- cratic as well as of the Progressive party who clarified their stands in your paper last week. I believe that the representative of the Demo- crats made a serious error and has in effect slandered the Socialist party of Norman Thomas by lump- ing it together with the so-called Progressives and by calling it a radical party. Radical - that is n gn in onP of tbos~ labels applied without thinking to any group with whose ideas we happen to disagree. If Mr. Pacelli would care to glance at recent newspaper articles he would find that Norman Thomas has from the very first strongly opposed the Progressives as well as any policy directed towards an appeasement of Russia. He wiil Problem: To ho~d down costs, and speed the extenswn of telephone service. Solution: High-strength wire whose use allows the span between poles to be in• creased from 150 feet to more than 300 • One pole now does the work of two. The problem, of course, is a continuing one fo: teleph?ne people. High-strength wire w1th requtred electrical qualities is only one of many things they have developed to help solve ~he problem in these days of high con- structton costs. . In total, their dev~lopments are the reason why telephone service here is the best in the world-the reason why a telephone call costs only a few pennies. I discussed this field house drive further ftnd that the Socialist Plat- recently with an alumnus of..Union, form-a·nd one who makes such .and I am convinced that many arbitrary statements should at the alumni feel as he does. \Whose very least familiarize himself with idea was it?\ he asked me. \If I the platforms· of the opposition- remember correctly, Union is sadly is by no means a radical one. in need of more important con- My main protest, however, is di- struction than athletic facilities.\ rected against the spokesman for This man's sentiments are shared the Progressives. His letter follows by a good many people, and it I the consistant party line-strange how often it mirrors ideas ex- pressed in the \Daily Worker\-of painting all that the government of the U. S. does a.s black and all that the Soviet Union chooses to do as white. It promises peace, se- · curity and abundance and rather fails in outlining how this is to be achieved. It opposes the Marshall Plan upon which the hopes of democratic. Europe are based and it follows, in effect, the same_policy towards totalitarian Russia which Hamilton Fish and Senator Wheel- er followed towards totalitarian Germany. Is it clear to these ·peo- ple, I wonder, that the Russians in Germany have r-eopened the same concentration camps used by Hitler to incarcerate the same people shut up there under Hitler, i.e. Social Democrats of the Norman Thomas type who oppose the suppression of the individual as practiced by the Russian fascists-for in effect this is what they are. Michael Straight challenged the Progres- sives to name one single demo- cratic European leader who op- poses the Marshall Plan. I repeat this challenge to the spokesman of the Progressives in our paper. We all hate war. But some of us know that life under a totalitarian gov- ernment-whether its flag be the swastika or the hammer and sickle -is better not lived. Some of us !mow by bitter experience that the very life blood of dictatorship is expansion and that never in his- tory has appeasement of the Wal- lace type prevented aggression. War is not necessary. Munich has taught us that appeasement only strengthens the enemy, w.e must, as we are trying to do, strengthen our own democracy, help demo- cratic Europe to win its battle for recovery and prevent and further expansion of the Russian flag or of its· ideology not by war but by proving our system superior. If, however, our love of peace is abused we can not quietly give in to demands of a totalitarian gov- ernment-that would be a perver- sion of ideals. Yours very truly, ERICH H. LOEWY. BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM FRII E s Me: spill Eph no OJ :s E< as 1 at 1 LiP I R.H Ral1 Ed (Un< D com Pl'O the am' the COil Me scr fes col ing ate an Me str. fea Ca Co tio ar1 thl co- b!~ SO( on of a ( '4 th' th .... I l

~. 1948 s .Baar 1e, only a could be as a part hand~ sing 1ere is no Lt ilUCh a good ffor at large. not exag- hen, Mrs·. ,y best to lieve any- is now in to you to ~ misjudg- Idled the •lumn last r Ivy's re• d was ex- document ,ll is back ugh there anywhere 1 tal'k and In regard td I think •iffic sport What a s, wait un- tober, The I that a d be built l ad minis- _ ·eport was :ive of the. >laining to the story n was in Eoundation building, m's \rest lcte(!·. Tb,e word as rriting the ! the word FRIDAY, OQTOBER 29, 1948 3 Ephmen Here to Tussle With Cridders, Harriers; Syracuse. Mauls Booters; Frosh Eleven Tie RPI Mc:Laughrymen Sh~.tout Hobart; WiUiams Tough, Garnet Favored Ket~men Swamp Colgate A large alumni horne-coming crowd should be provided with pl~nty of thr~Hs and '. The galloping Garnet cross-country team, Ora111ge Win Is 4th Garnet Loss spills, as the power-packing Union College football squad unleashes 1ts fury agamst the 'l.lnbeaten after crushing Colgate, 15-46, last Ephmen of Williams College in the 40th collision between the two teams tomorrow after- Saturday, will be striving to reach the crest noon on Alexander Field. The game is scheduled for 2:00 P~ M. of the undefeated wave tomorrow when it Wednesday afternoon, on Alexander Field, the Union College soccer team dropped their fourth straight game of the season, ---------~---·~ Stiffer Opposition Expected _ <$> · faces the strong Williams College harriers. this time to Syracuse, by a 4-1 score. \ ·• SCOREBOARD• . by' The .dynamic Dutchmen, fresh · froirJ, a 25-0 rout of Hobart College l'ast week at Geneva, have set them- selves for the expected stiffer op- position, and will not be over con- fident, despite the fact that they are h-eavily favored .. A well known. ''===== b factor that can stand in the Gar- ,_ Dick Ro erts---. net's way tomorrow is the \Purple Ed Fitz rates the following four· jinx,\ and the Unionnien will be as the outstanding backfield i):len out to deal it a heavy blow for the at Union sinc·e 11)32·: F. B. G.reg third successive year. Out of 39 · , 8 games played in the series between Lippit '33, L.H.B. Hal Enstice 4 ' ·the .two schools, the Unionmen have • R.H.B. Sam Hammerstrom '40, Q.B. Ralph Semerad '35. The best line only been able to win eight, while Ed ha~ ;seen at Uni<;m was in 1939 )osing 27 times. Four of the games. (undefeated season). ·were ties. Does college football coaching Williams, although only showing · compare wrth football coaching in a 3-2 season record, has had a - t h e professional plenty tough so;:hedule. They have league? c 0 a c h routed Sampson (42\0) defeated McLau .g h r y, Norwich (14~0), and last week up- former B r- 0 w n set a favored Tufts ·eleven (14-13). Uliive 1 ·sity a. 11 d They have lost to Bowdoin (34-0) New York Giants and strong Trinity (33-6). On a f 0 0 t b a II star, comparison basis, Trinity defeated rates coltegia.te Rochester by 26-6, while Union de- co:acJHng ·the bet- feated the Rivermen 19-6. Theo- ter of the two. retic-ally this should give the By ta It in g f 0 r Dutchmen a 20 point me,rgin over ranted such the Ephmen. as Hobart Routed c king, a n. d In the game last week at Hobart, Purple Runners Strong {i>----~-~---------1> Garnet to Play Classic Suggestion . . . This will be a crucial meet for· Writing of a loss is never pleas- Dear 'Herb: the Ketzmen, as Williams will ant and this particular one is You and I have seen r'eye to . place in the field one of the best t·o Q S E E'N D s rather a heartbreaker. Fol' the eye\ on the fundamentals that .. squads in their history. Just last : · first time this ·season the Garnet underlie our college life. How- week, Bill l}elton, the number one · team played real soccer. For the eve 1 ·, I am disposed to believe Purple runner, unofficially ·broke by first time passes went where they that you are not taking the ' his 3.'7 mne home course record were i·ntended; for the first time right position in collllection against Holy Cross. Last year the !.!=:=== Herb Saxe ===:!.I the outside forwards were made with our RPI athletic relation- same Williams squad, all of whom full use of and for the first time .. ship, when you indicate that ·are lettermen; trounced the Dutch.. Earlier this fal! I had a very they sent the ball back to the goal RPI is too big fo 1 • us. . men by a 23-32 score. The Ephmen interesting conversation with Paul area with any regularity; in fact, During the spring of 19.W I : got off to a poor start this se<J.son Mahoney, Garnet gridder fi'om the some of the forward movements saw all of the basketb<tll gamse ·by dropping their first meet to Albany School of Pharmacy. \Moe\ were truly classic plays; and yet in Albuque'I'que, New Mexico, Springfield College, but for the last· is one of that unique group of stu- Union scored only one goal and during the g1•eat tournament two weeks they have been in top dents ·who shop that from a f1·ee kick. The ex- for·the State Hig·h School cham- form, trouncing Holy Cross by around at three planation is not nard to find: the pionships. The Albuquerque 21-34, and edging out Middlebury or four schools number of shots taken at the goal High School was the largest en- by one point. be for e settling by our forwards could be counted trant with well over 1000 stu- The Qarnet hill and dalers have down. As a result on two hands. dents. There was a little high shown themselves to be a much im- of his wander- ~ · t h I · h S\racuse Outplayed school in the eastern part of · . proved squad over last season, anu. mgs, · e r Is· ' the state; the name of which I will have the advantage of running pharmicist has· Apart from this one important have forgotten, that had only over their longer home course in played a I itt 1 e fault, Union outplayed Syracuse 25 students. That little high the clash tomorrow. Due to this football for one during the larger part of the game. school reached the semi-finals fact and the impressive showmg or t w o other In the 1.hird quarter, for example, because it's team had the de- made so far this season, we will . schools. lhe coordination between the Gar\ termination to win. Tllis deter- give the Dutchmen a slim edge in I wondered just net halfbacks and forwards was at ruination pervaded the entire . the race tomorrow. However, it is what it was that, such a pitch that the ball scarcely student body. bound to be dose. m a de a m a n ·crossed into. \our gi•ound.\ The I am confident that if the stu- Colgate Routed come all the way over from Albany Syracuse lads just could not clear dent bo~y, as a whole, at Union In the Colgate meet, the Union-' every afternoon, just to have his it. As usual the credit goes to College,. will sllow that same en- . men scored an impressive rout, as brains beaten out. I got my an- Hopkins, English and Rumpf for tluisiasm for lacrosse as is Captain Ray Belanger, Bob Gar- swer. The exact wording is not im- cheer. Try it yourself. shown at RPI, that in spite of lock, Don Wright, Newt Culver, portant, but when a man praises Our next game is on November . the headstart that RPI has in and Abe Lakshin took the first five ·the sportsmanship and spirit of his 6, against RPI. lacrosse, that Union\ will give places, crossing the finish line fel!ow ball players there can be no them the battle of their lives · abreast. Townsend McCoun, Fred mistaking what is meant. It wasn't next spring. Will you and the Steigert, and Don Brightman fin- ostentatious, lavish praise that student body ,accept that chal- ished seventh, tenth, and twelfth Mahoney was giving out; there lenge? to give the aGrnet a 15-46· win due could be no doubt of the sincerity. Sincm·ely, Victor Starzenski to the new displacement rule. Pre- Nor was this praise unfounded. viously a perfect scoi•e was 15-40. The conduct of the Union squad Now it is 15-50. during the RPI contest was exemp- o--- '87 Lacrosse Trophy At Stake This Week ball handling, the Garnet powerhouse went out in p:roft$sional coaches sta·ess more on front in the first. period when left the running plays, (both in the ail·. end Tony Coppola took a touch- and on the gro'[IIld) and as a result down pass from Dave Strauss and the blocking and ball handling be- went over from the 20. Union was comes inefficient and sloppy. Co.ach never in trouble, and three more McLaughry also thinltt> that the scores were racked up by Strauss, screening and deception of tile pro- Wade, and Lundstrom before the fessional teams are inf.ei•ior to the game ended. Hobart was unable college elevens. Precisipn and tim- . to advance any further than. the ing are more important in collegi- Union 18 yard line, even against the ate ball than in tile pro· ranks. As second and third string teams. an example of collegiate precisions McLaughry cites: Notre Dame, straight T; Michigan, single wing featill'ing the buclt lateral; North Carolina, straight single wing; and ColUillbia, with a Wing T forma- tion. As far as individual players ai'e concerned, McLa~gbry rates the pros the better. ---o lary, and so was the conduct of Grabsky, Orham Star Intramural Football the Cherry and White gridders. I Jv G •d .... • •th RP 1 There was no lack of spirit or The freshmen and the sopho- more lacrosse teams will face-off on Monday afternoon ih the initial battle of the interclass competition for the Class of '87 Trophy. On Wednesday afternoon 'the Juniors and Seniors will fight it out. The winners of these games will be matched in the finals, to be held on November 10. * * * na.vy. Last season, Happy was a n . fl miXWI Crown to 11 Calverts\ drive on the part of either squad. member of the Collegians sqccer A desperation pass on the last The Calverts were crowned intra- But there was no appearance of the team (a team composed of Union play of the game that went from mural touch football champions bitterness which seemed to keynote men) which played in. the New Quarterback Bill Braunsdorff to Wednesday on Library Field when th pre-game battles. Play on the York Central Soccer League. So far fullback Randy Orham produced a they defeated Chi Psi, 7 _ 0 , in the fild was of -as high a caliber as I this season, Tom has given stellar touchdown and earned the Union finals of the tournament. have ever witnessed at Union. The performances in all three of the College freshmen gridde'i-s a 12-12 The champs _went through the statistics will uphold that last U n 1 'on games. The diminutive left tie with RPI last weekend, on t · h t · statement. ourney w1t ou a smgle defeat be- half back is a pre-med and a mem- Alexander Field. ing inflicted upon them. Chi Phi Vic Starzenski's letter, which ap- Tom Hopkins, 25 year old 5' 7\ ber of Psi Upsilon Fraternity. The Engineers scored once in the· earned the right to meet the win- pears elsewhere . on this page, co-captain of the soccer team, is a * * * · second and in the fourth periods, · th 1 ff b pretty well sums up th 1 's school b . th th ners m e p ayo y turning back 1g man to contend wi on . e The Union f1•eshman football both after long sustained drives. Delta Phi on Friday in the semi- spirit angle. Get all that enthu- soccer field even though he weighE! team has been improving as the finals of the tourney, siasm you use up defiling each only 120 pounds. Tom is a native season progresses. As .a result of a to maim a good football team by A second half touchdown on a others campus, and put it behind of Haddonfield, New Jersey, ·and is bad break (fumble) the yearlings scoring in the last seconds Of play pass play clicked for the lone your team while they're on the a graduate of Episcopial Academy· went down to a 7-2 defeat in> their against a strong RPI frosh tea1m tally and the victory for the Cal- field. ('42) where he was a member of opener against Mol'l'isville. L.ast to tie the SCOI'B 12-12. The frosh t · d d t The football squads have set ·an ver ·s, an m epen en group. There- the soccer and track teams. ' Satm·day the team showed the stu- eleven will face their greatest test after they managed to stop the Chi example to be followed by both He entere·d Union in 1946 after a dent body that it has what it takes Saturday, November 5th, against Psi air attack. schools. three year tour of duty in the · Williams frosh. I meant it when I said that this L. G. Balfour Co. BADGES STEINS RINGS iiEWELRY GIFTS FAVORS STATIONERY PROGRAMS CLUB PINS KEYS MEDALS TROPHIES Wl'ite or Call ' CARL SORENSES WATERFORD, NEW YORK Telephone llFJ3 GOOD FOOD? Try Elmer's Restaurant 149 Barrett St. Where Union Men Are Always Welcome GOOD' SHO.ES FOR STUDENTS and FACU.L TY t'-IOFFMAN SK.ATE LAND • Sat, & Sunday 2-5 P. M. SKATE :M:on.• Fri. 7:30-1;1 P.M. • SKATE DANCING CLASS Mon. & Wed. 6:15-7:45 P, M. Ball's Shoe SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Ccmpus for Complete Head to Foot Service ·UNITED CLEANEJ{S TAILORS Phone 4 .. 5676 Fol' Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 601 Union Street AUTO SERVICE rivalry has degraded. It is no longer an athletic rivalry; but rather it is a battle between stu- dent bodies, occassioned by an athletic contest. And as such it is no good. If and when the student bodies of Union and RPI can raise the level of their rivalry to the plane displayed by their football teams, the rivalry. can be a good thing. Frankly, I don't think it can be done. Do you blame me, and others like me, for wanting to see this back-biting battle eliminated? I ( LANGE & RAPP PIJarmac:y PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUSS Cor. NOTT TeRRACE and STAlE STREET TRI CORNER DANCE Cleaners and Dyers Inc. Rebullders 633 State St. 204 Union St. 11-4 STATE Near FERRY WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE AT THE , TRINITY M. E. CHURCH Cor. Lark & Lancast_er Streets ALBANY, N.Y. . 8:30-1 ~ :30 Every Saturday Admission 50 Cents REFRESHMENTS . FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Patton & Hall X-RAY Frrl'ING 245 STATE ST~lnoe 189& PHONE 6-34S6 Call Ball and Ball Will Calf· THE FINEST IN RECORDED MUSIC R. C. A. Victor Columbia Decca Capitol Featuring The NEW Serving Union Since 1911 I.ONG PLAYING ~/0. . fl~~~':, COLUMBIA RECORDINGS ()Rft\\l~~~sT.JlWlU~ Roberts Piano Co·mpany II 166 Jay Street IJ lb.=2=0=3=S=t=at=e=St=r=ee=t=======C=o=rn=e=r=.F=e=rr=y=S=t=re=e=t=- 1 . For the Finest IN MEN'S CLOTHING CHAS. HOLTZMAN &SON ' 259 STATE STR:EET FERRO'S RESTAURANT ' Sood Food & Beverages · PHO~E 6-9554 1 11 5 BAilRETT STREIT JAY JEWELRY CO • HEADQUARTERS For 'N ATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing Qnd Engraving Pens tand the Finest Gifts Corner State and Cent•r Sfs. TAl.LS TUX FOR FOOTBALL HOLIDAY AT Ottav.iano's Sartorial Bar 114 ~AY ST. OPP. CITY HALL

l; 'I i I I I I. I I FRIDAY. OCTOBl!R 29, 1948 4 ·~----~----------~--~--~------------~----~====~ Whitaker Flays Dems; Says GOP Offers More Election of a Republican admin-4>-------------- istration Tuesday will reverse the o. ffl. cers Electe·d trend toward centralization begun by Democrats in the last 16 years, F s • Cl b Prof. Benjamin P. Whitaker said Of erv1ce ll' in chapel yesterday in the fifth in . Clarence Giles was elected presi- a series on backgrounds of national election. The natural hostility of Demo- crats to private business and dis- trust of the free market leads them to - seek solutions for econcomic problems in the substitution of gov- ernment action for private action. The result is a decrease in the power of state and local govern- ments and the growth of big busi- ness and big unionism at the ex- pense of small business and the in- dividual. dent of the Alpha Phi Omega ser- vice fraternity at a meeting Tues- day, October 26. Other officers elected foi· the coming· year are: Roy Clark, vice-president (on cam- pus); Richard Johnson, vice-presi- dent (off campus); Andrew De- Hont, secretary; Frank Merrill, treasurer; and John Miller, hls- tot·ian. The Democra;tic party has fos- tered an inflation by its spending. he continued, and yet is unwilling Plans for the air-marker project which will be undertaken shortly by the fraternity were discussed by Eugene Eliot, a member of the on- campus committee. o--- \' to take the only logical steps for controlling it, namely, balancing the budget, and reforming taxes to restore production incentives. In- stead, we are offered further con- trols and restrictions on our al- ready shackled economy, he com- plained. Graham to Speak The final talk will be given by Professor Joseph Rotundo next Thursday who will analyze the out- come of the election. Shirley Graham, well-known author and composer, will be the principal speaker at a meeting . sponsored by the Schenectady Wal- lace for President Committee in conjunction with the Union College Students for Wallace. The meet- ing will be held at 7:30 p.m., Sun- day, at Hotel Van Curler. , Mrs. Graham is best known for her biography of famous Negroes. Her recent book, \There Once Was· A Slave,\ concerning the life of· Frederick Douglass, has won her wide acclaim. For this book she was awarded the Julian Messner Award for the best book in 1947 combating intolerance· in America. There will be no admission charge. ---o--- Kiddy Series Starts Starting Monday WRUC will go on the air fifteen minutes earlier than usual to present a series of programs to be !mown as the Chil- dren's Parade. These programs will be of special interest to children on the campus. Also, the first production of the WRUC Radio Workshop will be presented at 8:30 on Tuesday, No- vember 2, 1948. The play is en- titled \Three Strikes You're Out,\ and stars members of the WRUC radio workshop and girls from Nott Terrace High School. Patronize CONCORDIENSIS Advertisers! Football Background <Continued from Pag<:> 1 l @>-------------- suit of injuries ~ustained in the \ Colhv College game in 1938 was NYU game. Due tn the death of 1 C'anc.elled due to flood conditions Moore. all gam<'s w~re canc£>lled in : in ]S'.,w England. The Colby team 1906. I was unable to t:each Schenectady. The Garnet had their first un- defeated s!'ason in 1914. They scored 121 points to their opponents 17. The highpoint ow the 1916 season v.~as the 45-0 ~hellaC'lting the Dutchmen gave RPI. A five game schedule was \an- celled in 1918 as a result of an influenza epidemiC' plus the fnct that two of the p\ayPrs enlisted in the Arm\'. 1930 mark<'<i the POd of P. E. Leary's eleven yi'ars of coach- ing. In 1931. G. E. Hatfield was named coach, and finished the gl'a· son with a 5 win-2 loss record. In 1934. l'nion. Jed by Ralph Semerad, who r<'reived honorable mention on the All-American, won four, lost thr('e, nnd ti<'d on<'. Nel- son Nitchman, t•nion '30. was named head coach in 1936. The The DutchmPn had their second undefPatcd season in 1939. Led by Snm Hamm!'rstrom. high scorer in the East. Union defeated Rochester 46-0 for a great climax to a great season. Art Lawrence was named mentor in 1941, and in 1943, Mel Hein took the reins. All games were canceJled in 1943, as a result of the wnr. There was no schedulE\ attnngPd in '45, due to the low en· ro\lment. John J. !11cLaughrY assumed the duties of head coach in 1947, and finished up the season with a 3 win, 5 Joss record. The present Dutchmen team. four wins, one loss. may go down in the annals a~ one of the best Gartnet football e\f\vens in the history of the school. Your best NEXT-OF-SKIN! is ARROW ARROW SHORTS ARROW T-SHIRTS ARROW GUARDS UNDERWEAR $1.25 up $1.25 up $1.00 up Come in and .see our fine selection of Arrow under~ shorts and undershirts. NUSBAUM'S '---fOR ARROW UNDERWEAR--- II Naturally I I smoked CHESTERFIELDS while ~ working on my new picture, BEYOND GLORY. They're always MILDER ••• It's fM dgarette;c~ ~ ....... . BEYOND GLORY A PARAMOUNT PICTURB Q: What brand of shorts do college men swear by but not at? ARROW SHORTS WHY? Because Arrow 1 s seamless seat and patented crotch construction pre- vent chafing and aeeping and give ample sitting-room where needed. TRY Arrow shorts next time for real comfort. rhey come in oxford and broadcloth ·with gripper fasteners or buttons. Try Arrow undershirts too. ARROW Jm------------------~>> SHiRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR Q HANDKERCH!IEFS ~ SPORTS SH;RTs· 13.d:lt firvn.'Jf~ ABC GIRL of Texas University sayS-- \ I smoke Chesterfields because I have always found them definitely MILDER and besides Ilik~ their better taste.\ Vol. 7 liai of t and seat cha nat of 1 A F: Me1r men in e divi< begt Ma offer1 pled~ cent be p mmo first dent agre• the to tl plaq1 ing scho As soug seni1 tr.ib\ derg 30, l St T( U1 blin the sent in I rnee is t• Sch an of : T ·atte at 1 ciet Un! AJ I not Blc me poi of of beE thE na J.I :Re gr: J sir D1 tho co ta· of Cc ne hi.