28, 1948 ,· . , \ \ • Founded at V:nion College in 1877 Vol. 70, ;No. 29 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., 'FRIDAY, JUNE 11, 1948 P.R. ICE 10 CENTS Colorful Ritual tol Mark Graduation Of 1.948 Senior.s One hundred and sixty-one se~ior will receive .. their :1: 1 coveted hachelors degree from !President Carter Davidson l, ~unday at 10:30 A.M. This will be .the 153rd commncement I. at Union College. The exercises will be broadcast by WGY Weekend Schedule Comm.encement-Alumui Exercises 1:00 p~m. 2:30p.m. 4:00p.m. 4:00p.m. TODAY Alumni ·registra,tion begins, Hotel Van Curler and General EnglneeJ•ing building on campus. Ciass Day Exercises, Jackson's Gardens, Fraternity teas in the chapter houses. I Alumni Gather F,or 'Homecoming Week~end' Event beginning at 11 o~clock. 6:00p.m, 6:00p.m. 6:30p.m. 8:00 p.m. Artnua.l meeting of Phi Beta Rappa, English Room, Bailey Hall. Infm'lllal Senior ·Class picnic, Jackson's Gardens. Dinner at Hale House for non-I'eunion class alumni. Re1mion dinners of classes at various places. Iufm•mal evening :for wives and families in Old Between 750 a:nd 1000 guests are expected to attend Union College's twenty-sixth annual \Home- coming Weekend,\ which officially opened this morn- ing with the arrival of the first alumnus. Dulles to Spealt John Foster Dulles, Republican. p Add foreign policy spokesman and. a , ·~.>nx. y ·. S member of the United States dele- ~ ![:;., Chapel, 8:00 p.m. Meeting o:f the Board of Trustees, President's Office. TOMORROW The weekend, June 11 and 12, will see present and pros- pective alumni competing for various prizes with which to add prestige to their 11espective classes. gation to the United Nations, will 10:00 a.m. Meeting of the Board of Governors, President's Office. Meeting o:f the Board of T·rustees, President's Office. Alumni Parade starts-review on Library Field. Balloting for alumnus trustee, Old Chapel. -- ~ deliver the commencement ad- B •t t ITT. d d·ress. Dr, Dulles, who has .been ' . l· 0 rr 0 ~ IO:SO a.m. namedi honorary chancellor of 10:30 a.m. Plans Made For Foreign. Student Aid Union University for 1947~1948, has m R d 12-1 p;m, been mentioned alj a likely secre- . ar on· . . ·e s 12:15 p.m. tary of state should either Gov. Alumni Luncheon in Gymnasium. Dewey or Senator Vandenburg .be. 3:00 p.m. Lacrosse, Vai'Sity vs. Alumni, Library Field. Baseball, Varsity vs. Alumni, Alexander Field. elected .to the .presidency. In an address to the 161 can- 3:00 p.m. Eleven honorary degrees will be didates for degrees, President <l:30 to awarded during the exercises to Carter Davidson said at the bac- 6:00 p.m. Reception at the President's Home. mep. who have distinguished, them- S d 6:00p.m. All 1\lumni and Family Dinner, Hale House, The wor·d \fraternity\ took on f d t' caJ.aureate service last un ay la; selves l~gi the bfie~ds 0 j e. uca 1 . 1 on, th·at comnlUnlS· m has no place in . . 7:30 p.m. Alumni night, band concert, :fireworlrs-Alexander added meaning for Union College · w, re 1 on, usmess, ourna 1sm, Field. today when the selection, of seven and science. Four Union alumni the United States. way of life.:· foreign stucents who will study at t hi 10-12 p m Dancing, Alumni Gymnasium. are among 8 group. \Communism which is essentially · ' · the college next year under the Wblte Gets Perfect Score SUNDAY, JUNE 13 sponsorship of seven national fra- Th ·1 d' t · f th 1 · a r·adi'cal movement, and fascism, · e va e JC or1an o e c ass lS ternr'tz\es was a·nnounced. The pro- b t 10:30 a.m. Commencement Exercises in Memorial Chapel, John Donald R, White of Schenectady, which is reactionary Y na ure, ll ad t gra·m, as explained by President · t d - Foster Dulles, Honorary Chance or-Bro cas He will receive he egree or have no place in American educa- .. ; by WGY at ll:OO. Davidson, was pz·esented to college bachelor of science in physics and 'd t administrators by undergraduate has Performed the ast ounding fea·t tion,\ said the presr en · CLASS DAY PROGRAM h fraternity leaders who envision. t e -of going throucnh four years at Unite, Peoples p 1 ·ogram as the forez·unner of a .,. f h · h 1:30 p.m., Friday, Jackson's Gardens Union with a perfect scholastic \This democracy 0 w rc we nation-wide collegiate plan and an d T th h d ates Speak l ·s not strr'ctly a national Faculty Advise1· on class dav-Professor Augustus H. Fox. recor . en o er onor gra u • \ integral part ·Of America's efforts will join him in receiving stage affair,\ he went on to sa:y. \It Ivy Planting by Albert K. Hill, Scotia,---1:30 towards a lasting peace. appointments, the highest aca- would .seem to be growing into a· Class Exet•cises at Jacksou's Gardens 1 b de min honor tendered at Union world .problem. The atomic bomb Isak Gerson of Turkey wi I e v Class History-Orazio Ottaviano, Schenectady p nsored bu Phi Sigma Delta College, which was dropped on Hiroshima s o > • Pipe Oration-Alfred Lewis, Bloomfield, N. J, p . Stage appointees are White, Ed- released social forces even more, Alpha Delta hi is sponsonng Jug Oration-Jay Bottomley, Great Neck, L. I. f p · F ward J. Craig of Albany, Jack C. terrific than the physical forces Michel Perier o ans, ranee. Class Poet-Silas Steinhart, Olean Tway of Oklahoma City, Okla., which destroyed the city. Our Class Propltet-Ivan Scheier, Plattsburg Sponsored by the Phi Gamma Charles F. Crampton of Bayport, scientists, in learning how to split Commeuts ·by President Davidson Delta house will be J. J. C. Alber- Edward V. Chmielewski of Albany, the atom, have made it necessary dingk Thijm of Leiden, HollanJ, a Ivan H. Scheier of Plattsburg, Rob- tl;lat we heal all splits between men Picnic and Alouette Sing in upper section of Jacltson's Garden student at Leiden University. ert F. Risley of Horseheads, Leslie and weld the human race together Alouette Singers-Craig Mitchell, Charles DeMatteo A Vietnamese from French Ind·o- M. Zal:z of Schenectady, Albert J. in an inseparable unit. The Com- Class Mat·shal-Robert Bartlett, Ogdensburg China, Hoa Nguyen-Dinh, will live Taggi of Elmira, and Robert N. munists have cried 'Workers of the Class President-John Newton, Springfield, Mass. at the Delta Upsilon house. Wilson of Schenectady. world uite!' We who believe in Class Secretary-Allen Talmud, Brooklyn Phi Delta Theta will sponsor Commencement orations will be democracy must Include all classes Class Treasurm·-Rogei' Williams, Dubuque, Iowa Hermann Anton Haus of Craz, delivered by Tway, who will dis- in our cry, 'Peoples of the world, Class Song Leader-Richard Raymond, East Aurora Austria, the son of the chief cuss \Yesterday-A Challenge for uun~it=e~!~' ·~· ___________ J!!:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::=::=:=::::=::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=~~p~h~:,~·s~ic~i~a~n~a~t~C~r~a:z:_:h~o~s~p~it~a~l:__ __ _ Today\; Risley, who will discuss - \Words or Deeds\; and Cra1g, who will give the valedictory ad- dress on \Why Education?\ Commencement Ce:remOIJlies Color Ceremonies Colorful Commencement week-en& will see many colorful an& traditional ac- tivities at Union. Coupled with the graduation ceremonies will be alumni reunion. Graduation week- end has c-ome to include the tradi- tional plantin-g of the ivy by the graduating seniors, the ever popu- lar .and often humorous alumni parade, and the initiation of the graduating class into the ranks of the alumni.· A full social week-end is planned with a tea at the presidents house and a dance illJ the Alumni Gymnasium. It is expected that beer will fiow in the fraternity houses, George Zopf Gives Critical Blessing to Graduates (Editor's Note)-We have given $•-----------------· space .to George Zopf, an alumnus tionary .phrases and oil you with. Now I know as well as you that I temptuous bravado, the embarrass· by vbtue of a rule and I'egulllr- tentative blessings. But most of nice people do not go around say- ment, and confusion with which tion, in consideration of the out- the speeches I have heard have ing things like that. In this ser- you reply whenever it is brought side chance that he may become been as the authoritative baaings mon, I do not intend to be one of before you. I know and have par- another George Westing'house. It of a majestic ram-Ovis rex .speak- the nice people. Besides, the fact taken of your easy and slightly ~ always flattering to recognize ing to Ovis vulgaris. remains that you are cheats and contemptuous discussions of ritual, genius in its infancy. What is really needed is the voice liars. Most of you have cheated your tolerance like lagniappe, your To the graduating class of Union .of a shepherd. I am afraid tbat · and lied throughout your college understanding nil. College. there are very few shepherds career, whether you were big men I 1 rttl t 'I'hP sad thing is that ~11 of you Dl \plomas were once t\nvariably around', All of us he~e on this globe on campus or ow Y 1 e s rug- d , t 1 Y h h t d will wait until you are !'<'are m o made Of Vellum' .~nd I can't ·help have something of the sheepish in g ers. ou ave c ea e on exam- k ff ..., · t' d 1 1 h faith. and you will try to sha c o thl 'nkJ\ng 1't part1'cularly appropriate us. Just the same, I am going to ma wns an · n c ass, you ave h h t d · t d · d ·n your fears by blatant coins in t e th t th t 'll ll d h offer some shepherdly ·advice and c ea e m your s IJ. ymg an l a ey are s I ca e s eep- 11 th · t· f f · d 1 • fr collection plates and inscribed win- skins. Th€y will be your badges for observation, disregarding the fact al et vane ·Ies 0 r~ent sup, ·Yom dows and other forms of slightly f · d 't \11 b that there 1·s·. as much of. a taint of · ove o mere acquam ance, ou the rest o your hves, an 1 Wl e f 11 fl d d · d · benevolent cheating. Since you the rare one among you who will sheep about me as about some of ·are u - e ge • wzse an expen- enced cheats, and the chances are have all your lives shown bravery invalidate his insigne. For sheep- you. th t 'll · when there was no risk a·nd ---o l1'ke you w1'll gambol forward to. As far as qualifications go, I a you wz remain so. crawled aw:ay when the risk was Mund . ·t-NI.XOD receive the symbolic integument; know quadr1,1ped sheep well, and ALL OF YOU, without exception, great, you will not now find the sheeplike you will enter the folds two-legged sheep only less well. I are liars. You lied to get out of bravery to believe in anything. B ·n n· d and pens of factories and labora- have seen sheep pile up and tread examinations, you lied your way I . ISCUSSe tories and offices; sheeplike you and smother one another to death· out of unauthorized cuts, you lied I A:.'W GOING TO STOr attack· Li.fteld word f()!)' word from will accept your paycheck feed; when a wise-appearing ram, giv- to the dean, to your professors, to ing you ·now. My space r.uns short SOheinecta.dy Gazette sheepllke you will purchase and lng exhorting baaas over his shoul- the nurse, with your improvisatore and my belief that any of this will A discussion of the \highly con- wear your clothing, that even in der, led the flock into a blind gul- ··headaches and your technically have any effect on any of you is troverslal\ Mundt-Nixon bill lured such major points as cut and col- ley. I have seen ewes drop their perfect loose bowels. I hold no waning. When I recommended re· · 1 d' our will be amazingly alike·, sheep- lambs into a snowbank, standing brief against lying if it hurts no ligion to you, I meant to recom· a throng .of 22 persons, me u mg d t d like you will marry ewes as ·Uni- there bleating .proudly w. hile the one, but this lying of yours is like mend no organized belief; I recom- two speakers, a mo era or an a . C ll • ld form as yourselves, as alike in .the· lambs froze to d. eat h. I have seen a self-inflicted wound, that though mend only some spiritual investJ- reporter, into Union o ege a o · greyness of their opinions and atti- sheep rubbing the heavy matted ·Invisible, will be with you the rest gation, some trial of the Golden chapel last night. The 18 listeners were self-con- tudes as they are varied in the wool of their throats until the of your life, growing larger and Rule. Try the New Testament, or sciously opposed to the subversive colours of their clothing; and flesh was torn ·open, and continu- angrier with each succeeding of- the rolls of the Torah, or some activities control measure. sheeplike you will beget upon them ing t.o rub, assuaging the irrita- fence, until it is much too large for parts of the Koran, or the Indian 'f 1 lam· bs in your own image. It is tion with counterirritation, until. regret. or Buddhist Scriptures or some of They applauded afl voc1 erous y as PQilsible for opposition speaker not necessarily a sad nor a dull their throats were so damaged the things the Greeks wrote. :br. Arthur K. Davis, associate life. In fact, it is one of the most that they had to be shot. The Now, having cheated and lied Heaven may be as meaningless to Pl ~·\sapt of ex·istences-something word for sheep is stupid, whether your way through college, you are you as it is to me, but you had sociology professor at the college, ~ to be p· r 1 ·v· z'l g d to t k\ll and clapped once for Earl P. like the particoloured dreams of you are describing their minds, · e e ry your s 1 8 better find a life of satisfaction the drug addl 'ct, wherein exists no their habits, 'or their mora. lity. on the world at large. You will rather than the cheap .and hollow Grant, legislative chairman of the lie and cheat ou · · t d Pai ·n nor fret, no times for de- NOW I WON'T CLADI that· · Y r way m o sue- happiness you are headed for. county· American Legion, who e- cess 'nto · · t d fended the bill. cision, no refusing of the easy this· you two-legged sheep are equa:lly h.· ' 1 d mtharna!Seh,t m 0 ab. goof One last word. I am hot too t t k th h . d th t I · h stupr'd. All that y·ou sh·are wr'th orne an · e rzg num er o Dr. William M, Murphy, chair- o · a e up e ar er a · WJS ch· 1 ··ldren Eventually th t' '11 sorry that I have spoken so to all 11 h · · th' · t · :t\'. e four·-l·~gge·d sheep 1\s a kind of · e lme WJ man of the citizens' council, began you a· appmess IIi Is exrs ence, >< ~ come when th pal · k f r of you, among whom are many of the session with an outline of the if it is all happiness tha:t you Wish.· blind regimentation, an unwilling- gre. t WJ'Il rea hey e snda the 0 e-' my friends. I should not be sorry BUT IT IS my .full-he· ar.ted be- ·ness to. leave· the herd r.egardlcss . · · c · ou, an e ever- bill's .provisions, Both of the sue- Increasing p · 'll d. · t to lose friends by so heart-felt a lief that all happiness is no happi- of the advantage. This is coupled am Wl rive you o ceeding speakers did the same; :wz't·ll a kJ'nd of wJ'lful mo·ral stupr'd-.· re1ief. You w.ill try drinlt, and sermon, since I would rather have The bill was variously termed ness at all. Consequently I believe drugs and phllanth op d 0 you as enemies than as easy the \final answer to all the in- that each of you should be given :ity often ·at variance with your aca-: .· ' · . r y, ~11:. Y u friends. If any of you fe~l wrongly effectual methods taken over the pause before you go out. from here, demic intelligence. These qual!-. may even be d·rJven to rehgwn. accused, let him see me. In the years to control Communism and given a chance to reconsider a:nd ties would be bad enough by them-' AT GREAT RISK to my past words of an old minister .of mine, other subversive· groups in Amer- ·Possibly to rededicate. Ostensibly, se1ves, but you have a few a(jdi-· .reputation I ani going to venture \I am talking to you, not .the guys i~a,\ and an epitome of vagueness that is what the BaccaJ.aureate ser- tional qualities that no real sheep . .the opinion that only this last will on either side of you.\ which could test the Catholic moil and the <Commencement ad- ever had. assuage your fears. I know well chtirch as high in subversiveness dresses are ·'supposed to do-to For insta.nce, most of you are :the religion of most of you; the as the Communist .party. ~ive you pause, to feed your cau- cheats and .Jiars. Up service or uneasy silence or con- MY SINCERE REGARDS; GEORGE ZOPF. Alumni 'n Their Cups Hig·hlight of the weekend wiU be the annual Alumni parade in which the various reunion classes will compete for the Samual P. McCl·ellan '81 Cup, awarded to the class with the highest percentage of its living members in the parade, the Courtland V. Anable '81 8up, awarded to the class with the larg- est number present, and the John C. Van Voast '87 Cup, awarded to the class which has the best cos- tume. The parade will be led by George S. Pierson of Kalamazoo, Michigan, a member of the dass of 1875 who is one of the oldest living alumni of Union College, in the role of Grand Marshall. Registration for the weekend will be held in the General En- gineering Building on ·Friday aftern·oon June 11, with a branch of1!ce at the Hotel Van Curler for this day only. Secondary registra- tion will be held at the engin•eer- ing building on Saturday mornin~, June 12. Friday, and 13 Meet Plans for Friday include Class Day exercises, to be held in Jack- son's gardens at 2:30 p.m., fol- lowed later in the wening by the annual meeting of the Union Col- !ege chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Bailey Hall; class dinners for the reunion classes of '88, '93, '98, '03, '08, '13, '18, '23, '28, '33, '38, '43, and '45; and a meeting of the Board of Tl'ustees in the President's Office. So that the wives and families of the alumni might not be neglected, an mformal evenmg has been plann~d for them in Old Chapel, starting at 8 p.m. Foll>owing with Alumni Parade on Saturday, June 12, the class of '48 will be accepted into the alumni bod~· During the noon hour, the alumni will elect an alumni trustee for the term 1948-1952. Alumni Battle Varsity Saturday afternoon will see base- ball and lacrosse games between the varsity and the alumni. From 4:30 to 6, President and Mrs. David·son will be at home to new and old alumni, faculty, and guests. At 6 p.m. on Saturday, an all- aulmni and family dinner, an In- novation, is scheduled. As usual, the weekend will fea- ture an Alumni Night informal dance in the gymnasium, band concert, and fireworks, providing Schenectady weather cooperates. The Sunday program will con- sist of the Commencement exer- cises, to ·be held in Memorial Chapel at 10 a.m., admission by invitation only. All alumni who graduat·ed 50 or more years ago and their wives will be guests of the college for the weekend. They will live in the college dormitories an\d will dine in Hale House. This year's program is under the general chairmanship of Henry B. Parker '34. Frederick G. Bascomb '18 will be toastmaster at the Satuz-day luncheon in the gym. Professor Frederick L. Bronner will be speaker for the reunion classes. ---0<--- Idol, Garnet Late The Idol will not be published again this term despite the pre- . vious nnnoun<\ement to the con- trary. Joseph Enzer, editor of the magazine laid the blame to a com- bination of circumstances which included the loss of George :Zopt, final examinations, and the print- ers' pre-occupation with .other jobs. The Garnet will not be ready by the end of the term. It will be published, however, within the next few weeks,

'$: ·r ,' 2 Oh Evil Day! The Proving Ground Member Associated Col· Iegiate Press and dlstrl· bator o! the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: !'a- tiona! Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative. 420 Macli- son Ave., N. Y. C. l'ub· !!shed every Friday of the school year. Editorial Offiae,Waahburn Hall, Union College. Pub- IlL-ation Office, The Ga- z~t te Press, 334 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as s~c­ ond Class Mall Mattei', subscription IOc a copy ; $3 yeai'; delivered any- where in the United . States. By Ant·hony Este1·brook • \What Union College Has Meant GENTLEMEN OF UNION, for I hear from in- to Me\ is the time-honored theme formedJ sources that y·ou are gentlemen, I have a. of many a starry-eyed top-ranlring confession to make. Now that I am leaving these valedictorian, who, in cap and collegiate :ourrounding:o I feel that 1 should tell you: gown with diploma in hand, has that I was introduced to Union in a way which was, nobly and verbosely proclaimed perhaps, not entirely in the spirit of this illustrious \loud their glory, thoS'e walls old institution. Some of your Alumni might feel and hoary, the colleg-e whet·e we aBham~d that such a thmg should con\e to pass spent such happy days,\ etc. As but it is better that the truth should out. Three for this writer, he can claim title days after I arrived at Schenectady 1 was taken to' neither to high ranking in scholar- the Van Curler Taproom. Oh evil day! There have' ship nor valedictorian, and he can been those among you who have thought that all be true neither to himself nor to my views about this College were coloured because the re::~t of his class to mention only of this disreputable baptism. Per hap::; they wer~ t1appy day::; of his eo liege cat eer. nght, perhap.s my views have been l.Ha:oed but it is· To do justit'<' to such a theme, lilting that I should end my year with you ns I ,ve should really turn back the began it. Tonight I sit again in that place Tonight· pages to thE' beginning of ft•eshman the wheel has turned a full cwcle anu tonight 1 re· year. to that bright and sunny day tlect un that whrch is Unwn. when \I.e stepped off the bus fr,>m yea,r that our intellectual .pride was abruptly shaken, and we quicldy learned that our high school A's and B's, W'hen translated into col- lege lingo became C's and D's. Nevertheless, that was the year of our greatest starry-eyedness, and the future could not be too soon in coming. 1\IANAGING BOARD GeGrge T. Orick ................................ EdltOO' .Albert Corbo ........................ ~lMUJ.giug Editor James Marra~ ........................... .S~ws Editor James Bunr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Asso<•late Editor· Herbert Sli.Xe ........................... Rports Editor Francis l\leehan .................. {'irenlution lllnnnger Lam boo-t Ginsberg ................ lln•iness l\Iunuger It is probably our d ut.r to offer some sort of congratulations to the graduating class, or to proffer advice to aid the new alumni in their contact \Vith the \brutal realities of life outside the ivj· walls.\ I3ut we realize that the \brutal realities\ have existed fol' most of the graduates for sevet'al years. We are also aware of the futility of offering commencement advice. It is probable that the dignitaries whu, solemnly capped and gowned, officiate at commencements, derive more in self-satisfaction and reassurance that they are properly filling their roles as molders of voung lives than the graduates gain in sound advice applicable to their individual plans. 1 REMARKED .EARLIER in the year in these fr cshman camp, sorUy thereafter tv pages that the most significant part or these United. be greeted by the Sophomore Disci- States was the organization. I hold to that view: pline CommiUee and those ~illy still. Until the last da.y of this semestel· my life: little caps with their verdant f~;lt has been dominated by a schedule. I have sat in, tabs, which color so appropriat~ly class the prescribed number of hours, 1 have read. ,,ymbolizc the true natm·e of us spec'ilied pag·es in apptuvc•d buol{S, 1 ha\'C regurgi· yearlings. For one or two that was tated the recognized dogma at ~tuted intc>rval~. 01 Sepll•mber 1938; for a ~oup!e of this b yuur system. 1 lea\·c it to ~·ou to decide. us it wn,; the fall of 13~9; for <.1 whether 01 · not it i::;; guo d. few more, 1940; while for still 1 IIA\'E SEEN the Library at dawn, ut noon and uthers it wa:o 1941, 1942, 1943, or in tho evening. I have watched th~ Idol change· 1944. Fur each of us it was tltat Sophomore yc.>ar, the wol'ld, of c.ourse, was complntely at our feet, and once in a while, we would speak to another upperclae::;man or the facuHy-mcmber first, just for the fun of it <though they natur- aHy thought we were humbling our- selves), but that was also the year we had out· initial tc~t .of responsi- bility and both kinds of fortune in varsity athletics and extracurricu- lar activities. By junior year·, we· had ::'ized up In complete detai·l all the faults and evils of the campus and idealistically set our· sights upon a thorough program .of \pro- gressivene!'ls\ and \reform .finding too frequently, however, our vision through those same si,lihts dis- couragingly clouded by aaministra- tive red tape. oHtmodt>d traditions, and veteran apathy; at least they colour from week to week. I have observed the. antics of the cheerleaders and I have heard all the atgumeuts against compulsory chapel. \Vhat mor·r could I assimilate? The meeting of some fifty representatives of students, administration and faculty at a YMCA camp outside Schenectady a few weeks ag-o can be one of the most promising steps taken by Pre:::;ident Davidson in the past two years. Properly followed up, such equal-ground discussions can do more to im- prove relations in the three levels of the Union College bureaucracy than all the chapel speeches and printed statements combined. IX Sl'ITE OF ALL th\ things I believe that I have learnt 6umething about this place. There. is ~omcthing that manages to Jive beneath the facade, something that may be the reason for the facade existing. There is in this place a warmth of heart and a friendliness which sull{S behind the creations of Potter, which hides from the forbidding bulk of the central heating plant, which abhors the me· chanica! side of the Administration. Engendered, no doubt, in the soft lines and warm stone of the older buildings ·On Campus. this spi•·it is the true spirit of Union. It is this which makes the Alumni want to come back, it is this which I shall miss next wee!< and for many weeks after. , THI'~RE V\IILL BE another with you next year. Another from my own Alma Mater. I would ask you to tt·eat him exactly as you have treated me. Adopt him and accept him. Let him learn with you and about you. Show him that all the organization. all the hurry and scurry, is nut the frameworl' but rather the shell, a thing to be laughed at, p!ayPd with and discarded. Do this and he will want to return as I wan.t to return. Do thi::;; but unless you want another biased opinion, do not take him to the Van Curler Taproom-b<er is llc a glass thf't·e' Letters to the Editor Celler Speaks Mr. Milton H. Ellerin Union Coilege Schenectady, New York Dear ,Mr. :Ellerin: Thank ~·ou indeed for your cour- tesy in sending .me the copy of the paper· containing a letter which concerns itself with the situation in Palestine. Since that letter is neither logi- cal nor factual and is merely an unthinking emotional outburst, I do not wish to dignify it with a reply. If I were to answer at all, it would bP in the nature of advice to the writer to do some unemo- tionalized study on the subject and to prepare himself with knowl- edge before he judges. With all good wishPs, I am Sincerely yours, Emanuel Celler. (Ed. Note)-The above letter from Rep. Celler was sent to Milton Ellet•in, a Union stu- dent, who mailed the congress- man a copy of the Concor- diensis in which the letter to the t>ditor by l'<lcCoy appea1·ed. (Ed, Note)-Following is a reply to the open letter to Representative Emanuel Celler of New York by Raymond Mc- Cuy, which appe.ared in the Coneordiensis of 28 May, 1948. Dear Ray: I should like to analyze a few of the key statements appearing in your open letter to Rep. Geller. I.-The upstart foreign state for which you do not want to shed any pure white Christian American blood was formed according to a plan formed by the UN. I believe we ai'e still a member of this world organization. 2.-The defense of Israel against the invasion of five Arab states is organized by the Haganah without help from any foreign communist powei'. The \Moscow-trained Irgun\ is a small minority opposed by the mass of people of Israel. Foi' your information, the Irgun is as anti-communist as our former America First organization, to which it could be compared. 3-As far as I know the Israeli have no intention of turning Pales- tine into a tourist resort, but sim- ply are trying to fou1:1d ·a n<>w home for the few hundred thou- sand Jews that managed to sur- vive the fascist tet·ror in Europe. Maybe you regt·et that those pea- The Happy Hour One of the I'eaders on the cam- pus asked me the other day the reason for the title of this column. In answer to this query I carefully explained that there was a song that was popular several decades ago which ran along the following line: \We're looking for a happy land where everything is bright; Where highballs grow on bushes and we stay out every night.\ something which I tried to imply, at least in this space several weeks ago, namely, that on this campus today there is growing a stronger and stronger atmosphere of overall conformity, which can result only in an obvious detriment to the product that is being turned out. Typical of this is the college line that when a man enters Union College he agrees to conform to the rules and regulations as laid down In the college catalog. Now no one is denying the sa- ple were not completely annihi· lated, but it is a cold fact thut these people are human beings en· titled to more than a camp for DP's as a home. It was the de· cision of a UN commission and a general vote of the assembly, and not a few politicians to choose Palestine as a haven for these people. 4-If you had ever read about the accomplishments of the Jewish pioneers in Palestine, you would realize that people changing the desert into fertile land are not the real estate brokers you describe in your letter. 5-I do not want our navy to fight the Arab oountries, but I ex- pect our government to defend the rights of 41 of its citizens (even if they are not white Christians) if they are kidnapped from an Amer- ican ship. In closing I also would like to inform you that I am opposed to war after having had a good taste of it from 1940 to 1945. I also op- pose aggression by any foreign power, be it Russian, Arab or American. However, I want the UN to hP provid!'d with t-eeth, mili- tary, if necessary, to preserve peace, prevent aggression and in general back its decisions. John H. Meyer. By James A. Baar not want him to do, although they will pay the concepti~ .of per- sonal responsibility lip service. They want the man coming out of coi- Iege to accept what we have in America today as an apotheosis .of civilization which must be main- tained at nil costs against anyone dPsiring to tinker with the ma- chinery. The \happy land\ is here if we only look around for it and stop this eternal investigation and criticism. Generation Afraid I find that I urn suddenly to b(' t·eleased on the world as an edu- cated man. Also, I understand that this group of which I am a part is the favored generation a,. far as opportunity is concerned. Still further I hear that we (this gen- eration of which I am a part>, are the body which is going to straighten out the conditions of the world. It seems that the preceed- ing gcnemtion has made a thorough mess of things, and now, at this !ale date, they are ready to admit it. They have put their con·fidence in us, and washed their hands of the whole affair. For myself, I actually don't know. Somehow I feel that my generation is heading down the same road that the one before it tcok. I find that the people of my own age have the same prejudices and likes as the elders who raii:led them: They ila ve learned no mot c than those whom they follow aftel'. We have gone through a war as those before us did. and wr haw learned the same as they did: it is ensiPr to forget and do nothing than it is to stand up for what one believes. I think that the earlier • generation once knew what was wrong, but they found that the effort involved wa<' too great, and they succumbed to the great fallacy that one man is insignificant among so many millions. Our generation, young as it is, has already become a genera- tion afraid. They will not face things as they stand, no more than their fathers did. The great atrophy which crept across the entire sys- tem of our predecessors and ren- dered them impotent is now infect- ing this generation and making them just as useless. \\'l• have already begun to settle down and prepare· the o>peeehes which will tell om· juniors that the future is theirs, and that our hope and trust is placed in them. We shall shout about the wide vistas which are open to them and the My College Education I've spent six years, off and on at Union. I've enjoyed most of the time I spent here. I've learned things. The things I've learned haven't all been from the class- I'oom--in fact, the more imp.ortant th1ngs I've learned have not been from the classroom. Far more im- portant to me than the History of Ancient Semantics arc the present day livings of Mitchell. I realize that one of the biggest things that a college education gives a man is the initials A.B. after his name. In present day American education, the degree, not the thought or work that iE> behind that degree makes up the greatest result of a college education. A college education is the only way of putting innitials after your name that represent de- grees but it is also one of the finest ways of learning about life without subjecting oneself to the realities of life. In Union I've learned a Jot about human relations. I've learned that one must get along with people if one wishes to get anywhere. It's not always pnssible to do what one wishes even though we do live in a \democracy.\ We can go only so far with personal freedom-from there the good of the majority (or more often that of the militant minority) rules. That the rule of the majority is always good, I have found to be a fallacy. I have found that the majority can be talked into many things-the more incor- rect it is, the easier the majority can be talked into it. I, ·have foUild that no matter how exceptio·nal a man can be, where there is a \system there will be no exceptions made for him. I have found that education means casting into a mold rather than pulling a man's mind out to its greatest extent. The system seems to have been made greater than those who are part of it. preach we will remain in the rut t:hat we are now in. College can mean a great deal besides the two small letters after our names. College is a proving FRIDAY, JUNE 11, 1948 By Lyle .Dem~ were the scapegoats for our seem- ing faHures. Now that the senior year, too, ls completely behind us, most of us, have reached the conservative peak of our college li.fe, and as prospec- tive alumni, are already beginning to view Union In a somewhat dif- ferent light from that of the past four to ten years. For that length o.f time, Union College has meant a ptoving ground of human relations, ·not for the ••wo·rld we are rubout to gu out into,\ but for the world we are already in and have always been in, and as we retrospect the past, many of us naturally Iike to think how we should :Jive it ·over, had we to do it again. On,Sunday the class of 1948 will leave the campus mostly V·ia the John Howard Payne or O~d· Blue Gate, an act we have all done hundreds of times, but this ·pat ticular time we shall make our exit a little wiser,. a little sadder, and a lot Glder, and hard as we may try, some ·Of us will fight only in vain to suppres9 the glad chorus \that tells in proud mra..<;U!'E' how fondly we treasure eld UnioH beside the Mohawk vale.\ By Jay Bottomley new worlds that are to be con- querPd. And we in our turn will wash our hands of the whole affair and say that we to.o have been ineffective. · No, I think that it is wrong for people to place their trust in us. We have not the stamina' or the courage to face the world which is before us. We have not the convic- tion of our beliefs, nor have we the idealism to spur us on to the goal which is expected of us. Do not mistake me however. We, of this generation will attain the same heights as those before us, and we will possess the same empty vic- tory which such achievement of- ers. \Ve are. of the same world, and of a but slightly different time. W(' wil'l go .our own journeys, and solve such problems as we find in the way of our advancement. But we will do nothing more. We will be the titans of tomorrow, and pass on with weary resignation the same load which we now receive. By Craig Mitchell grounds. It is a test of whatever is good or bad within us. If we fail in college, even though we may graduate, we a:re nothin,g and will be nothing. I have learned that there may be great enthusiasm for a project but when that project begins to mean work support and enthusiam wane. EXCELLENT VALUE! \WINGS'' BROADCLOTH SHIRTS 2.95 This, I continued, typified an gacity of many of these regula- attitude which I believe the rna- tions nor is anyone saying that it jorily of people centre all of their is possible to run a college with- thinking and standards around, out them. What I am saying, how- and which in the end nets them ever, is that by insisting upon the very little for their trouble. Finally interpretation that these rules must that in their search for this be accepted blindly on the fa.ith \happy land\ they label anyone that they are for one's good is an who refuses to pursue this course extremely dangerous influence upon as a detriment to society and as pliable minds. If a man is taught material for the nearest lime pit. in college to follow orders without If such a land as they look for question because they are for his could evet· be discovered, I con- own good, when does he learn that eluded, it would certainly be made sometimes people who are older of \happy hours\ and, since,lt gen- than he is, and supposedly much erally takes me an hour to write wiser, have no conception at all of about these people once a week, what they are talking about? When this column is call€d the \happy daes he learn to think for him- All of this, however, is most un- fortunate for this country and for the world sihce by carrying forth for too J.ong a period of time in this path, we will find ourselves in a position quite similar to that of Rome under Constantine. Then, when things are at last irrevocably in the saddle and riding mankind, there will be nothing left for us to do but to perish, and the quicker that that is done the better it will be foi' all concerned. I have fmmd that no matter how hard I try to hide from current events, be they national, interna- tional, Schenectady or campus, I can not leave them completely alone. I have found that I have as integral a part in the affairs of Schenectady as I do in the affairs of Mitchell. I have also found that even though I may do only a little bit, possibly .only associating my name with a cause, it is better than remaining passive. You'll get a king' s share of comfort and good looks in these \WINGS\ plain white shirts. Precision tailored of fine Sanforized Broadcloth. Smart look~ ing shirts that are easy to wear. . , hour.\ self? Sizes 14 to 17. Sleeve Lengths 32-3~. The tt·llson fur this Introduction This, of course. is exactly what is to lead up to succinctly stating the great majority of people do I am sure that there are many men bOth in the faculty and the administration of the college that are aware of all of this, and are, accordingly, quite worried. Let us all hope, alumni and undergraduate alike, that these men will be able to find some solution to the prob- lem in the near future. I have learned that tolerance -is an actuality. All men desire peace but very few are willing to work for that goal. There are many thing~ that add up to pNlce and unless we all practice what we

1948 .Dean seem- too, ls of us· peak pro.spec- beginning dif- the past length meant a relations, wbout the world ve always the like to It ·over, leave the an act s of times, we shall a little and hard us will ppres9 the in proud treasure awk vale.\ be con- turn will affair been wrong for ust in us. na' or the d which is convic- ·have we on to the of us. Do We, of the same and we vic- of- world, time. and we find in ment. But We will and pass the same Mitchell whatever us. If we we may g and will FRIDAY, JUNE H. 1948. 3 News of Two Semesters Summarized By James F. McCourt\ ~--------~--------------------~------~----~------------------------------------------~- Now that the time has come when the senior class will leav:e the cloistered sanctity of our ivy covered walls and g.o out and face the cruel, hard, facts ?f life, it may be wen to pause and spend a moment m retrospect. . . The two terms since last September have seen Umon moving constantly back toward her. pre-wa;r ?-ttitudes and· traditions. The veterans have been ~ell assimilated and are now virtua:lly unidentifyable from the1r fellow students. The freshman class V\as put~--~~-----------------­ through the .trials and tribulations )ember 18. Expanded student that .being :a freshman 'entailed in ·activities were. given ns .(hP rpason The term had f'lipp·t>d hv qH'ckly the days be~ore the war, The year a·nd it was· a wplcome relief to go has seen a rebirth of the school home for the Christmas holidays. pride u:nd spirit that was one of the· Esky Anoea1.·l casualties of the late war. Af-ter Cl~ristmas, final exams. A FJ.·osh Were Eage1• September saw the entrance of the new freshman class. The xna- jority of ·its members were n?n veterans, It proved to be the dr~v­ ing. spi·rit in resurrecti~K that m- ta:ngible thing called spmt on the campus. few men left the coUege. A pull was taken o~ the stun:ent body and it was voted to· have n formal winter v. cckend. A com-, mittee was named and plans ini·- tiated under .the student council for the prom. The Vassar College Glee Club ·held a joint concert with Union's on prom weekend last Februar!. So You'll Know Wh9 to Blame Like little boys, the editors ·seelt attention. Like little boys, they delight in having their pictures .taken. Left to right: James M. Murray, news editor; Albert L. Corbo, managing editor; George T. Orick (seated), editor; Herbert K. Saxe, sports editor; James A. Baar, associate editor; and Francis Meehan, circulation manager. The navy pr.esented Union Col- lege with a plaque fo~ its servi:es in training naval off1cers durmg the war. President Davidson ac- cepted the award for the college last October. The publications boal'd tore wt0 ~he high cost of publishing the Garnet.· SeveFal a:lternali ves to the present way of publi:;hing it were. presented. _Missing from the pictm·e is Lambert Ginsberg, business manager. The Graduating Class Morals Issue I The February Prom caused an 'I unexpected furor concerning the ~:.· · moral standards on the campus. Radical and clandestine publica- tions appeared attacking the chap- !!::========= October a:ls6 saw a strange new sight on the Union campus. Stu- dents ga:Ded and it was rumor~d that Eliphelet Nott turned over m his grave. Women, nursing stu- dents from Ellis Hospital were at- tending class within ·our hallowed'• walls. lain. The Concordiensis was at- BachelfJr of Arts A. Crown, Vincent J. D'Amico, tacked for its prom insert and Philip G. Dayton, Lyall Dean, Ro- On the .night before the RPI game last fall, the .campus turned, out en masse to repel any raiders that might appear. Several in- vaders were caught and paid the • price for invading our holy ground.· holier than thou attitudes appeared Wllliam L. ' Bailey, Walter D. bert S. deBrotzke. Leslie J. De- in various parts of the campus. Barry, Jr. Robert A. Bartlett, Wil- Groot, Jamie Dennis, William L. Some students de.manded the resig- liam W. Beck, August Blake, Don- Dunstan, Douglas H. Everett, Ralph nation of -the chaplain; but eventu- ald M. Blake, Alfred E. Bobst, Jr. W. Fingar, Walter J. Finnegan, ally cooler heads prevailed and the Jay E. Bottomley, Donald W. Car- Glenn A. Fol·rnsbee, Crawford E. whole furor died down. man, August E. Cerrito, Edward V. Fritts, Joseph T. Fucigna, Edward Blue Gate Again During the fall term there was extensive .building and alteration on campus. The blue gate and sev- eral faculty homes were repaired. The new modern language building, was completed and opened. The old campus started to take on a• new face. In March the rules concerning Chmielewski·, Edward A. Christo- A. Gilchrist, Ralph A. Hutcheson, ·participation in student activities· phe:r:sen, Dennis P. Clum. Edward Harold Jones, Julius Karwoski, were chan.,.ed. Men not on the N. Dahlstedt, Sebastian C. DeMat- Bert K. Kusserow, David Lennek, o teo, Leslie J. Dent, Jr., -Harold J. dean's l1st are now permitted more Enstice, James C. Fluker, James Franklin B. Lewis, Thomas S. than one activity. w. Fry, Richal'd G. Furlong, Ee- Lynch, Bernard D, McGrath, Harrie Adopt Bowdoin [Plan nest Van Gloeckner, Morton L. W. Mallery, David W. Marsters. . March also saw the beginnings Goldberg, Joseph B. Grocock, Rob- Jerome G. Mastrianni, Jr., Peter V. of the Bowdoin Plan. Under this ert A.Hanley, Jr. Harry P. Hawkes, Meie, Ernest P. Menni!lo, Ralph M. plan selected foreign students ·Marshall N. Heyman,Albert E. Hill, Obler, Paul A. Pastore, Gordon R. would receive their room and board Robert w. Hoose, Irving Horowitz, Personeus, Ernest S. Pincus, John from fl'aternities or dormitory Jack I. Hotchkiss, George R. Hum- C. Poole. Bertrand V. Race, Arnold groups and tuition from the col- phrey, Charles M. Jacobs, Edward C. Rasso, Richard A. Selzer, \ll:d- lege. Almost all Union fraterni- N. Kearton, George E.Langr, Harry· ward S. Setchko, Arthur L. Sha- ties eventually subscribed to the L. Lazer, Harold J. Limpert, III, pera, Peter Spezzano, Louis Steege, Many tears were shed and much beer consumed when the a'lumni in-· vad·ed the campus for homecoming weekend last October. Many tall tales were heard coming out of the game rooms of fraternity houses about \When I was here at Union ... \ plan. Charles R. Lord, Albert M. Lyles, Dayton R. Stoss, Vernon Stuart. \Big\ Election Donald Y. McCoy,John B. McGrath, Bachelor of Science The student council altered the Lawrence J. Malloy, Donald F. Early in the term the Idol an-, nounced its contest in which .$1,500 was offered for original literary ef- fort. This contest dragged along and it wasn't until the final week that the .entries swamped the judges. On Prize Day recently the Idol announced that fhey had re- ceived over ohe hundred separate entries:. M I Cl 'ff d C M Jd Jr Arthur G. Sullivan, Jr., Lawrence P rocedure in nomination of candi- ea y, 1 or • e rum, ,, Q t . I M' h c·· • F M't 0. Sullivan, Alexander Troiani, Eo- dates in preparation for the coming · uen m · me er, ra1g · 1 - student elections. Under the new chell, Elihu H. Modlin, James Mor- ·bert V. Varick, Alfred Volk, Jack f ton, George A. Moulthrop, John L. Ward, Harry C. Weiler, Donald plant,dthet .carnd~·daigtn manag~r~k ~~ M. Newton, Jr., Raymond J. New- S. Werner, Howard E. Woodin, Ro- n s u en can 1 a ·e gave a a ton, Gilbert L. Oddo, Orazio Otta- bert E. Yung, Leslie M. Zatz. chapel on the virtue and merits of viano, Richard D. Raymond, Robert his man. The campaigns· presented Reid, Jr., Robert F. Risley, Harris B. S, In Electrical Engineerjng varied and in some cases hilarious N. Sanfilippo, Charles A. Schaffer, John Boyajian, Richard L. Bu- amusement · to chapel attenders. Ivan H. Scheier.Sam F. Seymour, chanan, Carl E. :j3urmasbir, Ed- 'Phe new system \lad the desired ef- Leonard F. Siff, Milford B. Smith, ward J. ·Craig James E. Dutelle, Fred's BIIJby feet, however, for the elections Jr., William H. Standen, Jr., Silas Charles R. Eaton. William E. Faa- During November Fred Wyatt· brought out the phenomeno1 figure B. Steinhart, Allen N. Talmud, a.ke, Donald S. Feigenbaum, Charles announced plans to construct a of over 70% of the student body. Colin T. Taylor, Guy H. Tucker, Jr., L. Gould, William· H. Hamilton, fteldhouse as a memorial to the Just Glory Now Jack Tway, George P. Vogel, Ken- Warren C. Herrick, Rodman B. Union men who died during World March saw the beginning of the neth H. Wait, Sheridan P. Wait, Kieft, Joseph W. Kowalczyk, Doug- War II. The student body was fight of the year. Under· freshmen. Jr., Robert L. Webster, Verne L. las R. Maure, Oeorge G. Mead. Jr., d Whalen. James H. Wheeler, Roger W'll' H M h J D 0 much divided about the need an pressure plans were advanced by 1 1am . eag er, ames . g- wiseness of spending $400,000· on the student council to abolish pub- A. Williams, Robert N. Wilson, Jesby, Richard B. Pease, Albert J. the project. There were many Jications' cuts. The freshman ap- John P. Woods. Taggi, Willard J. Sutherland, III. verbal brickbats thrown back and peared to feel under compulsion to Ba.tchelol' of Science B. s. In (Jhemistry forth between the plans adherents \change something regardless of the John Becker, Clift'Drd J. Benfield, Frederick Budnik, Alfred Lewis, and those who opposed it. Presi\ consequences and c·ared little what Leo R. Boyd, Wendell L. Bryce, Paul F. Silva. dent Davidson announced recently they change. After a rash of pro- Robert E. carpenter-, , that the college was going ahead posals, counterpl'oposals and coun- Gerald F. Coonan, Ernest J. Cor- B. S. In Physics with construction. ter-counter proposals, the frosh had rado, Charles F. Crampton, David Donald R. White. The fall term saw· many cultural their way and cuts were abolished. activities at Union. Among them As things are now, the only eco- were conc-erts by the Union Col- nomic royalists who are still on lege Glee Club, a concert by the the lush gravy tra.\in are .the men Elmira College Glee Club, and a responsible for procuring the ·adds. production by the Mountebanks. These capitalists receive a 15% cut. Rushing,~ cu13tomary fall occur- D•Chi Jam renee, went along with the usual In April the outraged city plan- beer parties. Delayed rusl;ling was· ning commission commenced has- the rule however, and a month tilities with Delta Chi who had elapsed between the arrival of the purchased a house on Wendell Ave- pledge class and the pledging of nue. The D-Chis moved into the any men. house and dire threats emanated President Davidson was pleased from the planners 6f the City of when the marks came out, last fall,.' Tomorrow:. The case is now irt the and rumors that a faculty conspir- courts and a final decision has not acy was holding marks down were as yet been reached. f!piked. However, six men were On Prize Day the conscientious, dropped from the college, for .aca- industrious, outstanding members· demic reasons. were awarded prizes for their vali- Unlon vs. Union ant efforts. The Union ·College dance band On May 21, the college an- got in a tussel with Local 85 of the nounced that John Foster Dulles American Federation of Musicians. would be speaker at the coming · The union protested when the band commencement ceremonies. At this played at functions of the college time plans for the ceremonies were beqause they were not members of announced and the campus girded the musician's union. T·he conflict itself for the return of Alumni at was resolved when the union an- the Annual Alumni R-eunion. nounced that t!le band could .play On May 28, Tom Dewey an- at collegn functions for which they nounced that he was going to build received no remuneration. a highway through the pasture. In December the college made This met with .opposition from both the startling announcement that it students and administration. At the owns and operates no department present time Union is girding it- stores. Dr. Davidson did amnounce self for hostilities and preparing to however that Union has extensive fight the· invaders to the death. real estate holdings upon which As all years, the past one has · stores a1'e located. The college In been varied and interesting. Many no way competes with private en\ new and .many amazing things have terprise, was· the president's clos- occurred. Perhaps the .most amaz- ing statement. ing thing is .the high number of 'l'he student tax committee students still left in school after showed a deficit of $2;546 up to Dtr · final exams. To· the Graduating Class: We have enioyed your presence May you be as well liked by others as you have be-en by us. UNIO·N INN Many Changes Seen In Faculty, Courses By Don Cregier Academically speaking, the 1'9-17-1948 college year was a varied and eventful one for Unien College. Especially notable were the wide expansion in courses and facilities available to the student body, the recognition of outstanding achieve- ments in scholarship and teaching by L'nion fuculty members, and a return to closer, more personal relations between faculty and students, so important in a small college, which were necessarily abandoned during the war years. Faculty Increase ~· ----- - -------·-·----- From a membership of about 80 in 1940, the Union College faculty has been increased in the last eight years to over 120, both to meet the enlargement of the student body and to provide instruction in sev- eral new and different fields. One new department - sociology - has been created this year under the :mpervision of Dr. Arthur K. Davis, while another-art-will be organ- ized next year with funds donated by Walter C. Baker, '15, chairman of the Board of Trustees. In addi- tion, a new program in industrial management, patterned u p on courses offered by the Yale School of Engineering, has been intro- duced in the division of social studies. A new child testing pro- gram was organized recently by Professor Ernest M. Ligon in con- junction with the Schenectady pub- lic schools, in which graduate and undergraduate psychology students take an active part. New Gear Gotten To aid present departments of study in their functions, new, up to date equipment is being pro- vided, together with modernization of classrooms and laboratories. During 1947-1948 the divisions of engineering and science particu- larly benefitted from this renova- tion with a new Heat Engines Lab· Ol'atory under the direction of Pro- fessor Walter Lowen and a remod- eled Physics Laboratory, the latter completed with the assistance of the American Locomotive Company \to strengthen the link between science, industry, and education.'' Faculty Honored Professor Harold W. Blodgett. chairman of the department of English, took time off from his teaching and administrative duties last fall to handle the revision of \The Roots of American Litera- ture,\ an anthology of early Amer- ica. In the divisiQn of social studies, two endowed chairs, the Armstrong Professorship of Eco- nomics and the Bigelow Professor- ship of History, were created and betsowed upon Professors Benja- min P. Whitaker and Joseph D. Doty respectively. Dr. Edward El- lery, professor emeritus of chemis- try and former dean of the faculty and once acting president of the College, was honored by a me- morial plaque in the Adminstrative Building presented by the Society of Sigma Xi, of which he was na- tion·al secretary for many years. Bull Sessions Too Union College featured several conferences during the recent col- FERRo•s RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 1115 IIARRETT STRIIiT leg-e yo?ar in which faculty mem· hers, students, and nationally known leader:; in various fields par- ~;cipated. Particularly important were an <'Conomics conference in October. 19-17, and tl.e Eastern Col- IPgPs Scien~e Conference in April, 1948, in which 25 colleges in the eastern Bnited States were repre- sented. The college also sponsored several lectures by noted person- ages. including Alexander Keren- slty, the Russian democratic leader, and \Vi!son \Vyatt, for·mer mayor of Louisville and national housing administrator, who deliverd the an- nual Brackett Memorial lecture on practicll-1 politics. Faculty-student relations were strengthened by fac- ulty participation in campus clubs and social groups, WRUC broad- casts, and informal bull sessions in Hale House. Faculty members also appeared frequently in daily assem- bly programs to talk to the student body on current happenings and issues. ---01--- Trustee Chosen Will Be Tomorrow Final voting for the post of Alumnus trustee will take place Saturday. Candidates for the post, term expiring 1952, are: William R. Adams, Watertown, N.Y.; Ed- win L. Crosby. Jr., Baltimore, Md.; and Rudolph A. Schatzel, Rome, N.Y. Voting had been conducted by mail during th-e period June 1-12, with the Alumni Day vote culmi- nating the affair. The three men were nominated by the graduate council at its fall meeting. Best Wishes to you Graduates of 1948 • Anthony Je Rinaldi Candidate for State Senate WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE I JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and En9raving Pens ~md the Finest Gifts Corner State and Center Sh.

' ii ·l):'j t;; I.,: /• ~· ' FRIDAY. JUNE 11. 1948 Photographic Review of the Year's News Delta Chi's purf'hasP of a hom\ on \\'pndPII AvPilUP has caused quite a turmoil in lt>gal t•h·<'lt•s and the dispuk has yet to I'each a !.ettlc•nu•nt. Tlw dhmn: uf tht• <'it,y's attt'lllllt to oust the studt•nts from their nt>wly acquirt>d fJ·at.t\rnity house camP when tht>y were servf'd with an m·dr to ~how <'au~\ whv thpy \hould not bf' rPsh·ainf'd fi'Om O<'l'llpying thP hous\ on 1227 \\'t>'itdPII ·AvPnUP. Thf' f'l'UX of thf' mattf't· is that the city claims that the fratf'rnity has no l'ight in single family zone. Se!'Vf'd with the papers WPre Roger Williams, member of the board of dh·eetors of thf'l fraternity and BeJ•nard T. 1\lcGivem, a D-Chi who hn~ •JWnt a tf'nlh of <'Pntury :H'IJUiJ·inJ,: a f'nllt·~·· Pdurution. Su~pPn\\ fll'l'mPatPrl thP eoiJPI:'i!ltf' atmo<:ph<'rf' u11 l'hur~da~ Hi~;ht .-\p1·il :!tl, aud that ,u,pt•nsc was not relif'ved until rumor was VPrifil'd and it was learnf'd that Mitch£'11 Rabbino was l'lf'«'ted St. Andrews Kxehange JSeholar. The f'andidate is f'hosen on thp basis that he will hf'st J'f'Pl'f'Sf\nt Union <JoUegp Ideals on thl' St. AndJ'f'WS f'ampus and Rab- bino's rPeord thus fat• hl'l'P at Pnion showR that he will livl' up to that rPquirPmf'nt. Dean's Box Score 1947-48 61 Vohnntary Withdrawals 35 'l'nion'\ Frf'shman <'lao.;s, '51. has IH'nvidt•d pll•utJ of I'OPJ in thi~ paper since their al'l'ival on the <'ampus last Septemb!\r. Heralded as thf' \f'J'eam of a long appli<'a- tion list\ the Frosh pi•oved that the;r were just as a\·t·I-age as every- body else and nearly forty of their number dropped by the wayside at the end of the first term. Se1•iously intt•rt••h·d in studPnt go\ t•rnrm·nt tht·,y establisht>d partit•s among thf\mselyes to provide color for thl'h' own <'lass f\lections. Th•• f'lass was It'd hy Sam ~ ewcomt•r and under his helm the \'igorous Frosh took an active part in all campus adh·itit•s. \\'hilt• thl'ir l't'fJI'I\\I'Ilta- tiH•s on th•• Student Counf'il Wl'rl' not Pligible to 1·otp until thf'ir '\f'ond t<'nn tlwy eontl'ilmtt•d id•·a~ and thoughts at <'UIJII('i) nwt'liu~;s. nut ao.; thin~o.; will hapJII'JJ ''\'II 111 th•• must JlPrfo•etl~· organilt>d gruup a faf'tion formed that was to hf' a tlwrn in th .. ~idt• of tht• :'IO't•ll'<'ll!llt'l' Administration. :\t firo.;t oppor- tunity thP Af'tion part~· rPpudiatf'd lht• inf'umbPnt and plaf't>d Ui<'k :-r;tut•l\ pit·turt•d u.hu\·t>, a~ tlu·ir t'llll- tli<latt• fur prt·~itll'nt of lht• Soplw- nlnr~ da\\· In a \·f'r\· rJn,r• f'1f~f·­ tinn in \\ hic·h Xt'\\'co;u .. r wa .... rP- t:tiue••l a' pr~·~itlt•ut h) tht• ... li1n lliUralit.'t uf fh t' \ olt·, fht· \ct ic111 part.' ptu·t·tl two nu·n in uliit·t·. Till' part) pl<'<lgPtl it\•lf wlwll•- hPartedly to the ad\·ancement of the Class of '51. Picture shows scene typical of pre-election campaigning for student voting the latter part of April. Candidate Dave Martin, defeated, is shown canied into chapel on a Utter, supposedly typical of the 'serious-mindPd' erop of eandidates who !ilought offieP. Students roru·ed approval of the clown tactics of many candidates, but the vote record showed otherwise. Campaign managers provided color in intro- ducing their candidates to the Chapel audiences though at times their ribaldry defeated theb· purpose. One candidate used Nott Terrace high school cheerleaders, one !'CSOl'ted to a belly bump to greet the audience and another claimed his platform reste(l on a beer keg from Milo's, The pieturp at right i,.; of tht> (.lnioit Collf'ge Dani'P Ita·nd, undPr tilE' dil'l'<'tion of Art .'\grll'llo, htsPt, whif'h pt'll\'l'd hPyond doubt that the chapi'l can be pacl~:ed without tht' usual briht' of points. On 19 :ua,y tl11· janto·J·o; ~-:a\' a •·nn<'•·•·t lu•foi•P a l·llll dmpo·l. Tho• aillwar- aru·t• \a\\' \tnllll'thin~: iu th;:='ii;t'~~.: I •I '' II i tllllltll f. I.. t lit' It:\ II II, fill' unic•n I ruublt·\\ hac I 11n·\ Prttc·d t h•·rn fro111 oht.aini·u:.: huoh·in~. fur atfai~' n1i 1 hi' •·ampu ... t\ol· ..... \ Pl':tl uwuth' prior tn lht• t•unt•t•rt. l'rupuu•·nt\\ uf Sttut li.t•fltun 1.1 Ill' ol' jazt. into·r- fli'Ptatilln, tlw ..\gllt'llu gruup· o.;ur- prist>tl tht•ir ·li-.lt•Jwl·., wHh fl''\- fkic•nl'~· nut l:l'lll'l'all~· a\\\dato•tl \\'ith l't•lali·l t•l) Ullhllo\\ 11 huJHI-.. l'idurt·d ahn~t• i~ !;Pilial littiP William G . ..\ H•ri H, t•dut·at ion t'tlilur nf th•• :\' P\\' '\\ nrk ll .. rald Trihtml', who pnk•·•l ahout llw canquo~ tlw lutt•·r part of 'lar<'h. lit· ,ifto•tl f;.u·t .... and opinion .... fol' a ft>\\' tl~l.\'· 'tttilin~ hi\' \\'.1~ in .uul nllt of (':tfllllll .. t·liqlH' ... ~llnrtl.\ tflf·n·aftcr tht·n· iliJIH·an·d ill fht· Tr:t. ~t f•·a- lun• tt'lliug l'niutl Cullq;o· ~tud .. nb of their freedoms. The two photographs abo\'£' are taken from a seriE>s of pi<'tures which appeared in the Concordien- sis for 7 May, 1948. In a special section devoted to the annual Junior prom, it was explained that Dr. Albei·t D. Iiinsy, noted in- vestigator, based his report of the sex behaviot· of college males on an exhaustive study at Union Col- lege. Probably one of the most staJ•tling news stories of the year, the disclosure shocked the campus. Reactions ranged from uttf'J' dis· belief to indigation. 'l'he picture at left shows married student gJ•eet- ing his wife while her visitors crawl under bed. Kinsy, whose notebool{ is visible, said this be- havior was typical. Other picture shows Union student being himled into police headquarters on morals charge, tile ultimate fate of a high percentage of males if sex codes should be enforced, according to the investigator. Charles E. Crampton, above, was one of the participants in the second annual Eastern Colleges Science Conference held at Union the weekend of 23 April. . Many papers, the worlt of students, were rea.d at the affair. Representatives from sc\·eral eastern colleges found a full p1·ogram of social as well as scientific events planned· for them, and there was no dou,bt the con- ference was a major success. Crampton was awarded a $1000 .prize for demonstrating the most promise in graduate work. The pl'ize was the outstanding award of Pl'ize Day, 6 May. Hiram J. McKain Co. 306 Union Street Phone 4-4448 Seeds Insecticides Fertilizers We extend Congratulations to you, Graduates

'I 4 FRIDAY. JUNE 11, 1948 Photographic Review of the Year's News llt·lta Chj\., purch.t .. ,• of .l 1Htlllt' 1111 \\'•~ntlt·ll \\ t'lltlt' ha ... t' .. lll\'t'tl ttuit.p a tllrlilnil in l•·t;.t.l dt dt... uul f.iu• tli ... lllll•· ha ... ) t·t to rt·~tt·h a ..... ttlc·lllt'Ht. Tht• ('HIIl .. l\. t•l t,.h.- t.it. .. \ · ..... lH\'IIllll tu ou ... t lht• :-,(UJ~o.·ub troUl tht'ir Ill'\\ I~ al'tJUirt•d fratt·t·nit) lttnt~t· camt• wh•·n tht·y \\'t'l't' M'l'\ ''d with an nrtlr tn ,(1.,\ •·.tu\· \\' t.hn ,(lnuld rwt hl' n·-.traiw·d fm111 ucr·up~\in:.:. Hu· httu\\'' n11 1·!·~-; \\'c··JHlt·ll ... \\t'Jlllt'. Tht• cru\. 11f tht• tnattt·r is that t.h•• l'ity Plaim~ that tlw frat.•rnit~· has no right in ~inglt• family zont>. St•!'\l'd \\it.h tht• pap .. r-. \\t'rt' Rogt•r \\'illimu~. lllt'lllbt-r of tht> board of dit·,·r·tm-.. of tht• .fra!·t·rnitJ· ami Bt•rnanl T. :\lt·Gin·rn, a D-Chi wlw ha ... 'l\'\t a lt·nt·h ut t'l'lll 111 ~ a.t'ltllirillg a t'llllt•g .. 1·dtll'ation. fJ ...;,u~.p••n .. •• f!I'I\Iilf'.lh•tl tht· c·nll~·t:\i.itt• afnH, ... Jlhl'l\t' on Thur~tla~ night April :.!!1, aut! that .. u ... pt•nst• was not r<'lif'\'1'<1 until rumor wa ... n·l'ifi1·.,1 .r.nd it wa.., !f>at·npd th:tt '.Jill'lll'll Rahhino wa~ pJ.••·tPd St. .1\nr'lrPW< F~<'.hall!.:t• S<•hoht·. Tlw •·an<li<latP i<o Pho.,Pn on th•• ha•i• that lw will \''\t l'f'(ll'('-;pnf rnion f'oll<'t::l' i1IPal' on t.lw \I \ntlt•t•w, <':llll{lll' and Hah- hinn'~ ,-.~ron) th1T ... f.u· IH 1 l't• :tf rniun ... hu\v ... tha1 ht> will lin• up fn th:tl l't'll'lirl•llll'llt !' Dean's Box Score 1947-48 61 Vohmtary Withchrawals l5 f • i\llittll'.. ··.-,.,hlll:l-11 ,.~. ........ ·:,J. h.t\\ 1''.\' i•l• ~1 t~l· rrt.' ••I ~··,p~ i11 tJu ... )la)ll'l' 'inc•t• Oi<•it· <liTi\:11 Oil tht' •·amJIII\ la't SPplt•mhPt', llt•t·aldNI \\ tiH• \<'t'l'am nf a !om.:: applic-a- tion list\ the Frosh provt'd that tilt'~ wt•rt• ju,t as an•ragt> a, t'~t·r~­ body elsl\ and nPari:~o· forty of theit· number dropped by the wayside at tlw t>nd of the fit·st tt•rm. St>l'iously intPrPstPd in studr•nt gu\ t•runtt~nt tlwy t>stablishPd partit•s among tht'mst'lves to provide C'nlor for tlwit· own class t'ledion~. Thl' cia..,-; was l<'d by Sam l'lit'\\'cunwr and undt'r his hPim HlP \ig-orntN Fro'<h tnok an actin• part in all campus :l<'li\iti•·'· \\hilt· thtir ~'\l>\\\'''nta­ th , . ., un tht• Stud<'nt ('oun<'il Wt'l't' not Plil:ihh• tn \ ntt• until th .. ir \-it>('Urtd lt•t'Jll thP\ ('OUt l'ihUtP£1 itlt•a .... anti thnug-ht.• at ••ount•il llll't'tin~-.. But '\\ thing-. ''ill h:t(ljll'll t'\t'll in the· ruo ... t pt·r·ft·c·t-1.\ ••n.::~tnir•·tl :....: rntiJJ a facf.inn fnl'nwd that wa.., to ht> a thurn in tilt' ..,iffp ol tht• ~t'\\,'ll'l~t·r .\1lrni lli,t-r·.tf i or1. .\t t it ... t u ppor- turlit-~ fttt• .\c-tiun part.\ H'(Hrdiat•·tl lh1· ill<'tlllllu·nt ant! plar·•·•l Ilk.!, \\itu·l,. J•it-tun•d aho\t'. a ... f,Jwir t·an- clhla1P for· J•n•..,itll'llf o! lh•· ~oJ•IIu­ lllOI't' da~~- In a ,,.,., l'fo..,,- t•lc·t·- tion in \\ hh·h ~t'\\t''';llt·r· \\,, . .., lf'- t.tirl•·t! .a ... Jilt -.iclt·r•l h_\ th~· '!1111 plur.Liil,\ ot l'ht· \ttlt· .... tht· \l'll!oll Ji.lll,\ pl.tc·t•tl 1\\u lllt'll ill nllict·. Tht• (I.HI.) plt-dgl·d iht•lt whult•- lwart<•dly to the ad\'anet•ment of the Class of '51. Plctun• shows Sl'r•ne typical o.f pi·e-election l'ampaiguing for studt>nt voting thP latt.f'I' part of April. Candida!~ Dan• :\Iartin, dt'feat('d, is f\lhown <'arrif'd into <'ltapPl on a liiU>l', supposedly typical of the •s,•rintJ'i·lllinril·d' nop of l'andidak;, wlw ~Hught offii'P, ShuiPnts t·oat•t·d appro\·al of the clown tactics of many candidatPs, but the vote rPcord showPd othl'rwisP. Campaign managers provided t'olor in Intro- ducing fhpir PandidatPs to the Chapel audif'nces though at timl's their ribaldry defeat('d thl'il' purpose. One candidatE> ust>d N ott TPrrace high school eheerleaders, one resorted to a belly btunp to greet the audience and another claimed his platform rested on a beer keg from Milo's, Tlw pit'tur1• at rh:ht i'< of Hw l'nion ('ollt>g-t• Ba·tH'I' Band, undt•r tlw dh't•c·tinn of .\rt .\gJll•llo, in-;!'!, whit'h prnv•·d ht·~ otal duuht .that thP <'h:tpPI <'IHI ht> pal'lwd without thP ll\ll!rl hr·ilu• of pni,nlo,;. On l!l '\l.t.\ l·ht· 1.1//(c·l.., ~.1·\ ,. I c·nfwc·ll lt··l ... ! , .• l lid! i h,ql I. Ill!· ·'P(It'.l'l' • HilT \\.a ... '\'\c.f,hi fl.~ i·ll I hc~-;1.~~·:-;; . ol .t liiiUR'Ipll I ttl lilt• ll:tlld. It~ I' union ltHIII,Jt·, h.!tl (11•'\t·IHe·.J th•·IJJ lrorll uhtainin:.: IHIHI,iu~ lu~r ;!l.fai.r ... un tht· ,.,,IIJJ.pll\' lu1 ..,,.,,.1al 1111•11Hh priur tu tilt· t'HIIc't'l L Pr~~pon•·nt~ ot ~tan ht·ntun t,\ pt• ol j:l!l iut,·r· r•n·taliun. tilt· .\:.:,nt•lln J!ruup .... ur- pr-i\\·d tJu·ir li ... tc·ru·t.., \\ ith p'fn· 1-it·i,·ru·.\ unt :.:•·n•·•·all;; a~-..nl'i.d-t·ti with r.·l.tti\ d~ ulll,n•n\ 11 harul .... l'it'1urnl .thu\t' j.., cynial iif.tle• \\illiatn ~ •.. \\t'llti,Hitu-.llion l'tlitur ut t·he· :\-t'\\ \ u1l, IBt•raltl Trihunt·. \\ ho Jlll~t d .t.hnut f·ht• t'~llliJIII\\ t!H· 1.111<'1' Jl:tl't \' \\'''\ il·· ,j(t.-11 fad' arul ll('iniun .... 1111 a it·\\ el.1.\~. ... rnilin~ hi ... \\.t.\ ;~, .uu! nlll ot 1,\llljllj .. ·ll•jll• ... ,:, ... :.:, :1:•1• .• 1~·1 tllf·J•• :qqwart·!l i·~ lh• Tr:ta .1 l1 .t luJt• telliu~ l uiuu ( ni1t·~·· .... t·ude·nt.., of tht>ir ft'Pt>dnms. Tlu• t.\\o pholo:;raph~ aho\t' 'ue tal•en ft•om a seriPs of picttll'P!>l which appParPd in the Conl'ordien- sis for 7 May, 1948. In a spE'dal section dP'\·oft'd to tlw annual ,Junlm· prom, it was PX(llained that Dr. Albert D. H.insy, notpd in- vestigator, basPd his rPpm·t of the sex hdlR\'inr of rollP~:\e maiP..; on an t•xhausti\·p study at l\nion Col- IPgP. Probably one of thP most startling nPws !>ltoriPs of tlu• y<'ar, the dis<'losur<' \ho<'kPd tiw <'ampus. Reactions rangPd fmm uttPr dh;- hPliPf to indigation. ThP pi<'ture at l••rt show~ rnanird .. t.utl••nt gn·t•t- ing his wif<' whilt> hPr \·isilors crawl under hc>d. Kinsr, whose not('book is visible, said this be- havior was typical. Other pieturp shows Union student hl\ing hauled into polict• lwadltlla·rtt•n, on mot·al!oi charge, the ultimate fate of a high percPntage of mall's if Sf'X codes should be enforced, according to the investigator. l'hotof.\'raphPJ'S who took these ph•tures arP lleinan1ann, Navins, :-.t•hwartz, Ri<'ha1·ds, and Orkk. Charles E. C1·ampton, above, was one of the pw·ticipants in the second annual Eastern Colleges Science Conference held at Union the weekend of 23 April. JUany paper!>l, the worl{ of students, were read at the affair. Representatives from st·~ era! eastern colleges found a full progra.m of social as well as s<'if'ntifi<' <'Vents planned for them, and there was no dou.bt the con- ference was a major success. Crampton was awarded a $1000 prize for den10nstrating the most promise in graduate work. The prize was the outstanding award of Prize Day, 6 May. Hiram J .. McKain Co. 306 Union Street Phone 4·4448 Lawn Seeds Insecticides Fertilizers We extend Congratulation's to you. Graduates

1948 above, in the Colleges at Union .. Many were found as well as for them, the con- success. a $1000 the most The award Idol editorial board responsible for the last issue of said magazine and one belated issue that may appear sometime in the late summer or early fall. To the left of Editor Joe Enzer is ·Chal'les DeMatteo, a. June> graduate With the Class of '48; to the right of Editor Enzer is one Geoi'ge W. Zopt, Jr., a recently separated member of the Union College student bod;,.·. Enzer will continue in the post until next c-\prU. The Idoi Magazinl' recPntly C'ondu<'ted a contest for original writing from membei'S of the student body. The contest was adjudged a SU{'{'I'ss by the editor and various faculty members who aet<'d as judgf's. Liberal cash prizl's wet'f' awat·ded the winm•rs ft·om a total sum of $1500 donated ·by a philanthropic alumnus. (DPc. 19, 1947) The pt•incipals in the college dance band vs. Loeal 85 dispute that resulted in the band's not playing at paid attendance affairs. Seated at far left is Lot H. Cooke, Jr., whose interest in tht' dispute st-emmed from his position as editor of the college paper; center is Arthur Agnello, leader of the band and at tight is vrilford KPtz, <'oordinator of student aeth·ities. The \photo was taken in WRUC studios on its \Faets and Figures\ show. (Feb. 13, 1948) Onf\ of th<P \fifty odd graduates\ who n·<·c·IH•d ·his ~ht•t•pskin from President Davidson at the mid- wintet· commencement exercises. Graduate pictured standing in fl'Ont of Dt>an Huntlf\y is William J. Frank of Bloomfield, New Jei,sey. '.rhe .photo at right was taken at the presentation to the college of a portrait of the late Charles Proteus Steinmetz by the General Electi'ic Company. The portrait was pre-sPnt~d ·in bf\half of the- <'om- pany by Vice-President Roy C. Muir who at that time was a re- tired vice-president, but sinee then has I\Psumed ·his position wiU! the company. At fa:t· left is pictured John P. Lewis '41, Coucordiensis advise•· for the past year. As instructor in social' studies 1\-l.r. Lewis is to be cong•·atulated for the manner in which he has canied out his duties. Ills policy of \laissez faire\ was appreciated no end by the Concordiensis staff and his oc- ca.sionu-1 critiques and hull sessions were invaluable to all. At near left is Al Hill, past president of ~--------~~--~-------- the student council and a graduate ibis June. Perhaps there is no other student more qualified to know the inner workings of stu- dent gove1nment or student activi- ties than Hill. A past editor of the Concordiensis, Hill spent much of his time on college publications as well as holding elected and ap- pointed offices in student govern- ment, fraternity and extracurricu- lar activities. He was given no recognition at the annual Prize Day rituaL Scene shows group of students peering at a cru toon that was pasted on college's main bulletin board. Of unknown origin the cartoons highlighted the dispute conce1•ning' student morals over the February prom weekend and for several weeks after. This unfortunate dispute also was respon- sible for the publication of a clandestine sheet, \The Discordiensis, ~ -- ~·-~--- ......,.__,...,-\--~~.~--~. ', ,~..5,.< -:;' ,.t )> :.\:~;)'{'$~~;' :K\ ... •~!:,-\\\'1 ~,I ' { • -..\ +. .._ ;. ·~ ~ l >. 1 -~ ' -<, > : . l ,, ~ I One photo that appeared in the insert page of the prom issue of the paper on Feb. 27, 1948. Several chapel assemblies prior to the prom wt•du•ud \H•rt• takt•n Ul> hy ft•miuim· ~r~<·akt•rs who :\I>O\'t'd tht• ':puint· getters\ to \the real facts of life.\ Needless to say their remarks went unappreciated in any but a comic vein. One woman spoke about \the cheap contact\ which many students were surpl'ised to learn referred to all girls that d~ted· except the one ~·ou chose to marry. 1\nother spt'aker who usually addressed mixed high school level audiences forgot that she was addressing \nasty old men\ and her remarks went for nought. The insert sheet of the prom issue was devoted to lampooning the thoughts and ideas exp1·esscd by the female chapel speakers. This lampooning was not intended to coincide with the administration mom to correct alleged misbehavior at house parties but coincide It did with even more weight than had bt'cn anti<'ipated by th!' staff. Best Wishes Cleaners Tailors Furriers Henry's Compliments of Schenectady County Demoeratie Committee Ernest Buhrmaster, Chairman Schene<'tady's Mayor Ow!'n J. Begley '26 posing in front of por- trait of Chester Arthur, Union worthy, who was honored in a Foundf\rs' Day Ct'l'enJOny, Feb. 27, 19-18, that was markf\d by \slightly acid and sardonic humor.\ The celebration took on the air of a political convention with the mayor ha\·ing to dt•fend his 11arty after Trustee Hiram C. Todd blasted the New Deal. Tt•ustee Hiram C. Todd '97 ad- d.r··~ ... ink f-~nUrHif'l\\' Jla:t U.Udii'!H't• ou \Arthur as President\ which gave him an opportunity to com- pare Arthur's presidPney and ad- ministration with that of tho?' New Deal prP'lidl'nt. His r!'mark'l <'aused laughter and cat calls on the part of thP studPnt audi~>ncf\. Todd referred to the \o;pendthrift years of the New Deal\ IU!d offered the hope that \another New YOI'k ·g-ovPrnor might again, ao; A1·thur had, lead the party-out-of-pow,.~- to victory. NOTT RESTAURANT and BAR • Right Outside Green Gate WINES - LIQUORS and BEER For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN Vlilliam H. Plath 60 I Union Street AUTO SERVICE FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 1911 ~/3. ~ r4SO\\~ ~~{\~~~vsT.JlWEL(RS II 166 Jay Street l\

1948 i 1 above, nts in the Colleges at Union JUany ents, were found as well as for them, the con- success. a $1000 the most The ng award Idol editorial boat·d n•sponsiblP for tht> last issut' of said magazhw and one 'belated bstw that may appl'ar somPtinw in th•• latt\ ~untm•·•· or early fall. To the left of Editor Joe Enzer is Charles DelVlattro, a June gt•aduate with the Class of '48; to the right of Editor Enzer is one George W. Zopt, J1·., a recently separait>d mrmber of the Union College student .body. Enzer will eontlnu!' in thP pn~t until n .. xt April. The Idol Magazinl' rect>ntly conduetPd a conh•st fo1· original \\'riling from membe1•s of tht> studl'nt body. The contt>st was adjudgrd a stHerss by the editor and various faculty nwmbt>rs who ac!Pd as judl);<'s. Liberal cash prizt>s WPI'P awardl'd HIP wimH'I•s fron1 a total stun nl $1500 donated by a philanth•·opie alumnus. ( Df'e. 19, l!l47) The principals in the college dance band vs. Local 85 dispute that resulted in the band's not playing at paid att('ndance affairs. St>ated at far left is Lot II. ·Cooh:e, Jr., whose int!'I'est in tht• disput.· stt'ntmed from his position as editor of the college paper; Cl'ntt•r is Arthur Agnello, leader of the band and at right is \VilfOI'd KPtz, rnOI'dinatnr of student activities. The photo \\US tal>en in \\'Rl.'C studio• on it~ \Facts and Figures\ show. (Feb. 13, 1948) On<> of tltP \fift~· odd g-raduah•s\ wh11 n·n·hc1l hi.., ..,h•·t·p ... \itl lroru 1'! t_·.~it!L·HL 'i)..J.\ iU~ua ...tt llu Htit..l- \\\iflttlt.J' ('IUUillPJl('f-llllt•llt t•\:t,rCi!ott 1 '-;. G ratlua!t• pid Ut'l'd ~landing- in ft·ont of H<·an Huntlt-,v is \\'illia.m J. Fl'lUtl< of Bloumfit'ld, X ew ,Jerspy. The photo at right was taluon at the prest>ntation to the college of a portrait of the late Charles Proteus St<o'inmetz by the General Electric Company. The portrait was prt>sented in bf'half of tht> com- pany by Vil'f'·l'rPsidPnt Roy C. Muir who at that timp was a rf'- tirell viee-president, but sin<'e then has re«Umt>d his position with tht• !'nmpa.ny. At fat· left is pictured John 1'. Lewis '41, Concordiensis adviser for the past yeat·. As instructor in social studies J.Ur. Lewis is to be congratulated for the manner in which he has carried out his duties. His policy of \lais•ez faire\ was apprPCiated no end by the Cuncordiensis staff and his oc- ca»lonal critiques and bull st•,sions were invaluable to all. At near left is AI Hill, past president of ~------------------------ the student eouncil and a graduate Ghis ,Jun<'. Perhaps thert> is no ot ht•l' st ud••nt moi·p q ualifil'd to l.:now tho inner wol'idngs of stu- dent go\·ernmt'nt or student acth·i- ties than Hill. A past editor of the Conpm·diensis, Hill spPnt much of his time on college publications as well as holding ('!Pcted and ap- pointed offict's in studPnt gowrn- nwnt, fratf'rnity and Pxtra<>urrieu- lar acth·ities. He was glvl'n no l'l'<'Ognition at the annual Prize Day :i'ifuaL Scene shows group of students pefuing at a ca1 toon that was pasted on college's main bulletin board. Of unlmown OI'igin the cartoons highlighted tile rliSJmte concei'ning student morals over the Feb1·ua.•·y prom weel{lmd and for several weel;s after. This wuortunate dispute also :was respon- sible for the publication of a clandestine sheet, \The Discordlensis. OnP photo that a.ppl'al'Pd in the insl'l't pagp of thl' pt•om i\'u•• of the papet· on FPh. 27, UJI8. :-;,.,·era! ehaJH'i a..,s,•mblic\ prior to tht• prum w•·•·kt·nd WI'I't' taken UIJ by ft•ntinine ~Jwakt·r-. who \I'\\'''U th .. \point- gettel·s\ to \the real facts of life.\ N eedll'ss to say their remarlts went unappreciatt>d In any but a comic vein. One woman spoke about \thl' t•heap contact\ which many ,tudents were surprised to learn ~l'fenl'd to all gil'is that dated except tht• one you chose to marQ·. Atwfht•r \Pt'akpr who usuall~·· addn•,>;ed 1uixcd high ,chuol lt•vl'l audiPnct·s forgot that she wao; addressing \na!>t~· old men\ and her n•marks wt•nt fur nought. The insert !>hL•et of the prom i\\ue was de\·uted to lampooning- the thoughts and idt•as t•xpre~\l'd by the fL•malt• ch.tpt'l spt•akl'rs. Thb lampooning was not intended to coincide with tht• administration mon• to correct alleged misbehavior at house pa1·til's but coinl'ide it did with ewn mort• weight than had h<•cn antictpatPd by thP staff. Best Wishes Cleaners Tailors Furriers Henry's b------------------------------------~ Compliments of Schenectady County Democratic Committee Ernest Buhrmaster, Chairman ~('ht>r1f•(·fi.uh ·.... :\lonnr 0\,.,.11 ,J, RPgll'~· ':!fl p;•~inr: in. fnntt of pur- trait of (\h•·~t••r .\rt h11r, l'ninn worthy, who was honnrt•d in a FoundPI'<..;' Day rr-r~·mnn), F•\h. 27, lfltR, that wa-. madwd h) \-.li~-:htly acid and sardonic humrll'.\ Thl' C'elt>bration tooli on thP air of a politil'al <>onw•ntion with the mayor having to d•·ft>nd hi~ party after TrustPP Hiram C. Todd hla»tl•d thl' Xew Dt>al. Tru-.1<•1' Hiram C. Todd '!17 ad- dn• ...... in~ ·Fourult·r~· UaJ audiPJH't• on \Arthur as Prp;.idt·nt\ which g-ave him an opportunity to com- pare Arthur's prP«itlt•ney and ad- ministration with that nf tltP NPw Deal pre«itknt. Hi\ rf'm:ult'l l':ut-.•d Iaul;'htt>r ami ('at rail<.; on thP part of tlw «tmlt·nl audit•ncP. Todd rPff'l'l'l'tl In tlw \'pPnrlthl'ift year<: of thP XPw Dl'al\ and offPrl'd thP hopp that \anotht>r ~('W York gon•rnot· might a~:nin, ao; :\rfhur had, !Pad the party-out-of-pon .• to victory. NOT'T RESTAURANT and BAR • Right Outside Green Gate WINI:S - Ll('j)UORS and BEER For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 601 Union Street AUTO SERVICE FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since l911 ~.13, R1 f§S~\\~ {)\1\\\ll~AYST. JnR(5 l!;;;;==============lll\ 166 Jay Street \\

'' '1 j ' 1,, T ., ' ' . -~' . ''· ,. '· 6 F~IDAY •. JUNE n. 1948 Year .. '48 Records New Sports Records N:eophyte I New faces on the coaching staff. Lower Right: John McLangluy, who took over the football squad this year. Plagued with injw·ies to his stars John had a rough ye~r. Starting with the first spring pra(}o tice since the war, he is hoping to better last years soosonal record of three wins and five losses. Upper Right: Pete Nistad, who did a grand job working with three Gar- net sqoods this yela.r. His basket- balle~rs turned in a 9-7 rec()rd, while the Nistad-coached netmen hung up five wins for two losses. Pete handled the JV gridsters as well as ! assisting J()hn McLaughry with the varsity fooctballers. Upver Left: Ray Mullane, swimming mentor who's squad turned in four wins for five !()SSCS. The me1'11len turned in a far better record thrul the final 1 tally would indicate and are (()Ok- ! lug forward to next year. R:nY• working in an emergency capamty, handled most oil' the gr()undwork for the te>am during Bill Ketz's illness. Ken Whalen The Cinderm.eu For the first time since®------------------~--------~---------- 1936 the Union track team the shot put against some real com- Point Surnrmaries steam-rollered its way to an petiti.on. This was the second· year The following is a po·lnt sum\ I ll . Whalen has attended the big track ,mary of the season. A. Personeous undefeated season. n 1'0 mg meeting and it is the first time in won the high scorers laurels with up this impressive mark the quite a few years that the Garnet 58 markers. He was f.ollowed by: Dutchmen won five consecu- has had a represenatlve finish in a Whalen 55, McQueen 54, Culver tive dual meets against Trin- place position. 50 1 .4, Wright 4614, Wi!Iiamson 28¥.l, ity, Hamilton, RPI and Roch- ester. The track stars completed their stellar season by annexing the nine- college invitational meet held at RPI. Alo·ng with the Engineers from Troy, Alfred, Rochester, Hart- wick, Champlain, Osweg.o ,state Teachers and Siena feH victims to the eager Garnet track~ters at the invitational meet. Garnet at New York Ken Whalen, carrying the Garnet colors to the IC4A Track Meet at New York, took a sixth place in Lawton 26, Hagar 26, Westlund 23, Milford 22'h,. Garlock 22, Walling- ton 20, Simmons 17 5-6, Thurston 16 1 4, Belanger, 14, Oyer lO'Y.l, Dvor- sca:k 8, Keever 6'4, Loomis 6, Larkin 3, Brightman 2, G. Person- eous :!.. Record Holders Soccer Team On the left: Joe Tofel, who brol•e the Union College 200 yd. breast- stroke r~ord. Tofel's time was 2 :46.2, .4 better thian Go1·don's l.s Established 11ecord in 1!933. On the right: Jim C1nu-ter, new holder of Union's 440 yd. freestyle rec.<)rd' ()()urter was captain o:l' the varsity swimming squad. By Dutchmen With the assistance of the®•------------------------ ~:~:~~~Ytte0~~~1~dC~~~te: Block 'U' Society Reinaugurated Football Association, aspiring This year marked the reorganization of the Block \U\ soccer fans at Union College Society. The Society, which is open to all those who have founded the \Collegians won a letter in school, whether they are graduates or under- Union unofficial soccer squad. g'l'aduates, had been defunct since the war. 0~~;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;~ A:$ the \Collegians\ the Dutch- Bill Grant was elected president r; men tied for third place in the of the rejuvenated Society and Reserve Division of the Soccer other officers were: Tony Cappola, League, a six team circuit. The Garnet boe>ters defeated Amster- dam, Duanesburg and Schenectady while losing to Albany and May- field and· tying up a second con- test with Schenectady. This spring the \Collegians\ stepped out of the \cl1.11b\ stage and into intercollegiate competition, when Coach Frank Gleich started spring practice for Union's first varsity soccer squad. College .of- ficials approved of the sport for intercollegiate competition after witnessing the enthusiasm with which the unoftlcial soccer squad worked .out. Bill Gardam and Bob Wylie were the students most responsible for the founding of the sport at Union. vice-president; Jo·hn DeBello, secre- tary; and· Dick Roberts, treasurer. Faculty adviser for the ,society w:as Dick Balch, '41. Mainly through the efforts of Roberts and Grant approximately 100 Union athletes and coaches re- inaugurated the annual Block \U\ · Society Banquet. Jack La,velle, who at one time played ball under Knute Rockne, and is :presently coaching for the New York Giants a,nd Nohe Dame teams, was. the guest of honor. The other accomplishment of the Society was the Introduction of a revised· .system of athletic awards. SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4·5676 114 STATE Ne1u FERRY n e~Sl'' For graduation choose rarker ... the world's most wanted pen lltmilsome1r matcheil Parker \51\ Pen and Pencil sets, $17.50 and up • Success and Parker '~51\ just natqrally go together. Leaders in every field- the world over-.p~efer this pen. No wonder seniors at top universities have again and again voted \51' the pen most wanted for graduation. The way the \51\ will speak of your good ta_s'te- the way it will spark your thoughts and always show you at your best-these can mean so much in the years ahead. So plan now to graduate to a Parker \51\ -the pen that \writes dry with wet ink!\ Try it at your Parker dealer's. Gei acquafuted with its instant starting •• , its swift sure glide. • Choice of colors and custom points. 'fwo. ~OfR, 1948 BY THE PARKllR Pill COMPANY SIZes: regular and the new demi·size. The Parker Pen Company,Janesville, Wis., U.S.A;. and Toronto, Canada. PARKER \51\-PERFECT FO'R EVERY GUT OCCASioONt GRADUAIION • FATHER'S\ DAY o BI'RIHDAYS o WEDDINGS • ANNIVIRSARUS ttt~.·2S48-CPlS13-;:-U93-college Nsprs:--May, 1948-G :x 1()..-A Ad No. SF•S63s-;.Parket \Si\...:.t948 3-~7·48-A

6 FRIDAY, JUNE 11, 1949 Year '4 ecords New Sports Records Neophyte Coaches Dutc:hmen Nt>w fa('.l's on Htt• com\hing staff. KPn Whalt\n The Cinderll\!'n Lowl'r Right: ,John :\I<•Laughr;y, who t{)nk on•r tlw football squad thls y<u·r. l'lagut•d \\ ith injurit·s to , hls stars John had u t•ough ypar. Starting \\ith the fir\t spring JH'IH'- tiee ,.;,int•t• tht• \\:.u. he i., hupin~o; to oott<\r last y<'ars ,.,a.,nnal rt•eurd of thrl'e wins and fh l' Io-.s•••. rpJl<'l' Right: l'l't<' ~ist.ul, 1\ ho did a grand jnh \\ orldng \\ ith thrt't> Gar- IIPt squad., this yt-.Ir- Ills haskt•t- hallt'rs turn<'d in a 9-7 t'N'ord, whi lP tht• ~istad-<'oaPiwd nt'tmPn hung up fin• \\ins for two lossPs. l't\'il' ltandlt'd tltP ,JY g-ridst<\rs as wdl as assisting John MeLaughry with tht' varsitv fo<>thallt>rs. rppt'r J.Pft: Ray }lullnitt', swimming !lll'lltor who's squad tnrnt•d in filur 1\ ins for fi \\ lossns. Tit!' mt•nnt'n turn<'d in a fat• lwtt-t'r rN•ord than tlw final tally would lndi<'at<' and art> look- ing forward to nPxt yt'ar. R;aY· working in an Plll<'rg<'ne~· caplU'lty, handlPd most of the groWldwork for th{'l tMm d·uring Bill KPtz', ilJnt'SS. For the first time since®----------------------------------------- 19:36 the rnion track team I the shot put against some rPal com- steam-rollered its wav to an! petition. This was the seco.nd year l f , t 1 , I · • 11' I Whalen has attended the btg track unc e ~,\ ~c se.ts?n. n 10 Ing! n'PPting and it is the first time In Up thiS ll11pl'eSSI\'e mark the' quite a few years that the Garnet Dutchmen \\\Oll five consecu-1 has had a represenative fini~h in a Point f!ummaries 'Lawton 26, Hagar 26. Westlund 23, The following is a po·int sum- Milford 22''· Garlock 22, Walling- mary of the seB.Eon. A. Personeous ton 20, Simmons 17 5-6, Thurston '-\on the high scorers laurels with 161' 1 , Belanger, 14, Oy·er 101~, Dvor- 58 markers. He was followed by: scak 8, Keever 6 1 1 , Loomis 6, Whalen 55, McQueen 54, Culver Larki.n 3, Brightman 2. G. Person- tive dual meets against Trin-1 place position. Uy, IIamilton, RPI and Roeh-l-------------------------~-----------~ ester. 5011, Wright 46 1 ~. Wi!Iiamson 28%, eous 1. The t mel' stars completed their stella! season by annexing the nine- ,,,,llt'~t· inYitational meet held at RPI. Along with the Engineers ft om Trov. Alfred, Rochester, Hart- \iek Champlain, Osweg-o State Teachers and Siena fell \'ictims to tlw rager Garnet tmcl•..ters at the inYit:~tional m~et. Garnl't at New Yo1·k I<en \\'halen. carrying the Garnet colors to the IC4A Track Meet at ;s'ew York. took a sixth place in Record Holders On tlu• ll'ft: ,Jut• Tofl'l, \\ ho brol>e the I:nion Collt•gt' 200 ~d. brenst- strokp r•'<'.OJ'd, Toft'l's time was 2:46.2, .4 lwt·tt>r than Gordon's ~!'<'Ol'd in 1933. On the right: Jim C()urter, new holder of Union's 440 yd. frePstylf.' rt'eord. C-ourter was captain of the yarsity swimming squad. -------------------------- -·----------------------- Soccer Team Is Established By Dutchmen \Vith the assistance of the\------ Schenectady Football Club, a s• k 'U' s . t R . urated member of the Cnited States 10( OCie y elnaug Football Association, aspiring soccer fans at Union College founded the \Collegians Union unofficial soccer squad. As the \Collegians\ the Dutch- men tied for third place in the Reserve Division of the Soccer League, a six tea.m cireuit. The Garnet booterOl defeated Amster- dam, Duanesburg and Schenectady while losing to Albany and :\fay- field and tying up a sec;md con- test with Schenectady. This .spring the •·collegians\ stepped out of the \club\' stage and into Intei·collegiate competition. when Coach Frank Gleich started spring practice fat· Union's first varsity soceer squad. College of- ficials approved of the sport for intercollegiate competition after This war marked the reorganization of the Block \U\ Society.' The Society, which is open to all those ·who have won a letter in school, whether they are graduates m· under- graduates. had been defunct since the war. Bill Grant was elected president~ ••!.!i ;-;:-;;-;--~-;:;;--;-;;- ;;;;;;;;;~;;;;=iJ of the rPjuvena.teu Society and other officers ,,ert•: Tony Cappola,! SERVING UNION'S MEN vice-president: John DeBello, secre- tat y; and Dicl' Roberts, treasurer. Faculty adviser for the Society was Dick Balch, '41. :\fainly through the efforts of RobPrts and Grant approximately 100 l.'nion athletes and coaches re- inaugmntC'd the annual Block \U\ Society Banquet. Jack Lavelle, who at one time played ball under Knute Roclme, aud Is presently coaching- for the New York Giants I FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS witnessing the enthusiasm with 1 and ::-.;ott·e Dame teams. was the which the unofficial soccer squad guest of honor. Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Near FERRY worked out. . _ The othPr acc.omplishment of the I Bill Gardam and Bob Wylle were . thE> student~ mo!'t responsible for Sortety wa8 the introduction of a the founding of the eport at Union. revised system of athletic awards. IJ=====i:OOO=======~ For graduation choose Rrker'.Sl\ ... the world's most wanted pen llandsome1r matched Parker \51\ Pen and Pencil sets, $17.50 and up • Success and Parker \51\ just naturally go together. Leaders in every field- the world over- prefer this pen. No wonder seniors at top universities have again and again voted \51\ the pen most wanted for graduation. The way the \51\ ·will speak of your good taste -the way it will spark your thoughts and always show you at your best-these can mean so much in the years ahead. So plan now to graduate to a Parker \51\ -the pen that \writes dry with wet ink!\ Try it at your Parker dealer's. Get acquainted with its instant starting .•• its swift sure glide. COPR. 1948 PY THE PARitllR PEN COMPAHY Choice of colors and custom points. Two sizes: regular and the new demi·size. The Parker Pen Company~ Janesville, Wis., U.S.A. 9 and Toronto, Canada. PARKER \51\-PERFECf fOR EVERY GIFT OCCASIONa GRADUATION • FATHER'S' DAY • BIRTHDAYS • WEDDINGS o ANNIVERSARIES ftta·25o48-CP1Sls-:-U93-College Nsprs.-May, 1948-6 x 10-A Ad No, SF-B638...;.Parker \51\-'-1948 3-~7·4:8-A

' ' ' . 23, Walling- 6, Thurston 10¥.., Dvor- Loomis 6, G. Person- go world at voted good can \51\ i~k!\ glide. 'rwo- US FRIDAY, JUNE 11, 1948 7 Noted Athletes Seniors Two Were 7 'lettermen~ One· 5 Letterman Amo.ng ~--- -----------------------·--------------------~----~----------------------------~------------~----------------------------------~------ 'Top Cradu,atin~g Athletes LOOSE ENDS by Nineteen of the m<·n putting ou the cap and gown to 1-eceiw <J.i. . . plomas tl1is wed<encl Ita,.,. won• · Block U's. This yPar's •·laHs is WPll represented with mt·n who -~ave· made their hlat·k in mon~ than on•· spod. Mor-E' than half of the Hlock u men .g-n1duatin~ ha\'t' rt'<'t'i\'pd· a\\;al'd!S in t\r,o or tllUlt' ~port:=;. HERB SAXE Swan Song A:; comrnen~emenl draws the cur- tain on the clo>'e of another· ~·ear at Union Coi!Pge, l('t's look buck over that year and see how the Dutch- men fared athletically for the \'ea- ~on of 1947-4/l, and just for· a .start let's look at the stati.otics. head· lHlt of the sand,:; of idculi:o~m and tak,, a 'Iuick gbr:c\ a1·ound i.J,;. Th~ goldt>n age of ~ports for the• sa kP of sport>~ is fast dying, and is in many srhools ail t'ldy dead. \\',, all know that the lat·gct ufli\'t:t,.i- tiP.s in this cuuntty ktn·, in many cases.no compunction :rhout suh- s.fdlzing their athletPs, and now many of the smaller colleges are foHowing suit. Enstlce, Bartlett Art> l.!'adeJ'S Hal .En;;tice and Bol> ButtleU lead the list with seven award~ apiec<:l. Big Hal ft•om 'Flushing, Long Island has been the muin stay on the Garnet athletic fiel'd si-nce 1942. He h•d the Dutdunen' on the ;gridiron in 1942 and again in 1942 and 1947. In the last two years he was the l-eader in yards g~ined on the ground and also con- nected many times on the passing attack with his strong right arm. Big \H\ was also the strong man ·Of the Garnet basPhall pitching staff for four years, 1943, '46, '47. '48. He helped along his pitching chores by carrying a very respect- able slugging average throughout every season. Bob Ba-rtlett f.rom Ogdensburg has ·been one of the strong men in football ·and baseball since 1942. Bob receive Block U's in football in 1942 and 1946. :a:olding down the shortstop position on the diamond. Bob has displayed stellar perform- ance on the defence. His work around the keystone sack rated him as the b-est shortstop Union has ·seen in years. As captain of the 1948 basketball team, Bob turned in a very good job with the Union hoopsters. He was the big gun on the '43 Garnet squad and came back a·gain this year to spark many plays on the courts. Marlres Is Third Bob \Whitey\ Markes from Am- sterdam has received five Block U awards, three in basket ball and two in lacrosse. In 1946., 1947, and 1948, Whitey has been the key de- fensive man for the Union basket- bailers. His superb play on the de- fense has been outstanding and his speed and aggressiveness have added much drive and spark to the Dutchmen's scoring attaclt. Whitey down a midfield position on the la- cr.osse team for the last two years. He has showed remarkable prowess on both O\ffense and defense. His speed and spirit have made him on-e of the Union high scorers in the \old Indian game.\ Fucigna, Coohan and Spezzano Joe Fucigna has been very active· in football, track and lacrosse for the 1st three years. He received Block U awards in 1946 in football and track and in lacrosse in 1947 and '48. Joe has been one of the leading scorers for the Garnet stickmen while holding down the attack position. Gerry Coohan was one of th~> leading point scorers for the 1948 Union ski team. He has been out- standing on the lacrosse team for the last two years. His work on attack has led the Garnet topmost of its victories. Pete Spezzano has won· Block U awards in football in 1944, '46 and '47. Pete has been a key man on both the line and in the backfi-eld. His ·defensive work has broken up many a scoring threat of the Dutchmen's opponents. Everett, Barry and Newton Doug Everett has won two Block U awards during this year. H-e has proven himself on the hockey rink • (Continued on Page 8) Golfers Hit 19th Hole CoJCes' choppers hung up the hockeys for the year with a record of three wins to six losses. In the la$t two matches the muffin men bowed to R.P.I. on the Troy Coun- try Club links seven to two and were blanked by Hamilton at the Clinton course. Joe Behan had the only win in the individual matches at Troy when he beat Bruce Kinlock one up. The other point was garnered by BehRn and Baskous in the best ball contest. 'l'he Hamiltons thi·ew a stiff team average of even seventy at the boys in shutting them out on the tricky ho:tne lay- out. Dick Gregory had a sharp sixty-seven for low score of the · day, Frost and Behan had the only close matches but both bowed one down. '\f. ~ Bob Ma1·kes Courtesy Union-Star 'f•am l'nlun Tmd' 445~io Tennl• 42 .*X-Country f.t7 O'ao\IOCU•'\ j 71M 3;!7 66 l117 2:3 66 7 Upp, Won lb3\• • 21 fi 2 3 sn 7 3~~ 4 il 6 117 3 45 3 89 3 94 1 Lost 0 ~ ., 7 !i 8 5 ti 8 8 r' ,o 1.000 .714 .600 .662 .444 .428 .37:1 .333 .272 .111 I do not advocate out and out ·subsidization for Union; but I do maintain that we ·should place more emphasis on the athletic acth·ities of future candidates for admission if the school is to continue her athletic program. There is no slur Totals 1863 1 h 1861¥:: 41 51 .445 meant when I say that we can not T' r ~·c· 'k·m· en ·Only ·U·n.be.~ten C~·.rn.et Tea:m *The differences in the final scores. hope to turn the valdictorians and g 0 a There they are, cold and hard. -salutatorians we are accepting to- We managed to make two more day into athletes. There are some D • d E d. E s points than our opponents, although. men who excel both academically l ~·m·o·n· -men . ·n I r'r'!Sit···c e-~s·o.n· Be:ha·nd our overall average was just under and athletically; but they are few a a a ,500. If it hadn't been for the out- and far between. Wh I P ~ . . standing success of both the track Those men who have any athletic a en. ersoneus ·l . Cl ~~- ·~ Most Hits. Meeha. n· team and the cross country team ability at an are scared out of we would have fallen far below our sports by the extreme academic Ma'-'ueen. Hi,..h arossemen ose Armstronl'fi Wade opponents in the total number of leanings of our faculty and ad- ,. \ ':Ill Q t R h S ':31 1 poipts scored. ministration. When a Union athlete The Garnet Track Team com- pleted their best campaign sihce 1936 by recording an undefeated record in five dual meets against Trinity, Hamilton, Mohawk, R.P.I., and :Rochester. The Dutchmen continued on their winning ways by copping top honors In the R.P.L Invitational Meet which was. a post-season 9-team fra:y.l U 0 Ug , e aS 0 n A good ma.ny of our contests takes a game trip he is liable to By Bart Har·ris were won and lost by just the small find upon his return that he has R.P.I. Threatened The big obstacle in the cinder- men's fight for an unblemish-ed record was their meet with a strong R.P.I. team. However, this ·obstacle proved to be just another milestone in the Garnet's surge when they trounced the Cherry and White 80 1/3 to 40 2/3. Besides another victory to add to their list, it ·also was a moral win as it was R.P.I.'s first loss in three · years and their first defeat at the hands of the Dutchmen in eleven seasons. McQueen and Whalen starred for Union; each garnered two first places. McQueen won the 120 yard low hurdles, and Whalen took the discus and the shotput. Meet Summaries In the opening contest, the Gar- net steamrolled over a strong Trin- ity Squad by a count of 90 113 to 34 2/3. The Union Cindermen led all the way ·and snagg-ed all but one of the first place spots. Stellar performances were turned in by Whalen and Personeous. Whalen set a new Union shotput record with a heave of 47 feet and 1 inch. Personeous won high scoring hon- ars by grabbing first spots in the 100 yard and 220 yard dashes and in the broad jump. The following week the Ketzmen (Continued on Page 8) With one of its toughest La- crosse schedules in its history in front of it, the 1948 version of the Garnet stickmen cast a not too optimistic ey-e to the future. Coach Fred Wyatt salvaged 36 pro~pPP­ tives from the fifty odd candidates that originally reported for Spring tryouts, but the ever important experience factor was missing. The lack of this however was partially compensated by the spirit ahd ini- tiative of the maturing squad. The coaching staff was also boostql by the addition of Vic Starzenski who volunteered his services to the school, and his twenty years ex- perience proved its worth during the season. First blood for the Dutehmen came on April lOth when the Gar- net entertained the strong Dart- mouth College stickmen on Library Field. The final score, 16-2, was not indicative of the game, and the New England Champions met a highly spirited squad that ,;howed promise in many t'€spects. Fucig- nia and Brady were out,tanding for the Garnet on attack. while Bert Napear turned in an out- standing defensive performance. The Sampson Indians fell prey to a much stronger Garnet club, when the locals chalked 'their first win of the season by waylaying the visitors 14-3 on Library Field. The entire Garnet squad saw action during the contest, with Captain Byron George sharing top honors along with Francis Foresta and Tom Quinlan who mai·ked two tal- lies each. In their next encounter, the Eli (Continued on Page 8) ~etmen End Highly Successful Year: K1leen, J·esser Elected Co .. captains The tennis team lost the last~----------------------------­ game of the season in a hard fought match played on our home courts Friday May 28 with R.P.I. The Engineers came from the los- ing end of a 4-2 scor.e in the singles by winning all three doubles matches, and the meet, 5-4. In spite of this defeat, the team maintains an excellent record for the season. The only losses were the season's opener to Stevens, and the closing game .of the year to ·R.P.I. The five games in betwean were all victories. The rain throughout May caused .a great many of the meets to be cancelled, and five of the twelve meets sched• uled were not played. The team was quite strong this year, and could have made the record even better, had those games been -played .. Block U's were awarded to nine ment for participation this year, and an aUa went to one member of the squad. This is the first time tennis players have received major awards at Union. Previously mem· bers ()f the team received· tUt awards. The Block U's went to Captian Ivan Scheier, Bert Kusse- row, Louis Killeen, ·Frasier Henry, Richard Jesser, Hary Hawkes, Silas Steinhart, Douglas Everett and Manager Frank Stern, with Arthur Snyder getting the aUa. Five of the first eight men on the team will graduate this week, leav-· ing only Kileen, Henry and Jesser of this year's players. These three will be assisted by Snyder and John Chervanak in forming next year's team. It is hoped that fall practice can be held, so- that those who were freshmen this year can g:o out and work out with the team. ., Next year's team will be led by co-captains Louis Killeen and Rich- ard Jesser, who were elected last· week. They played three and five respectively on this· year's squad, as Well as playing together on the number two doubles team. LUCK to '48 MILO'S TAVERN Stnrting the preseason practice difference of one point and I feel three make-up tests to take in a with a sizeable turnout of forty- that we had a lot of hard luck this ·day. four men, coach Art Lawrence soon year. Enstices injury during the Taking Union as an example, I cut his squad to seventeen and football season was a great handi- believe that you'll find the out- tlwn to fifteen men, Left with a cap to coach John McLaughry as standing athlete is the well rounded bull pen buttery of four MacQuade, was Culver's injury during the cross student that the college officials Fletcher, Carsky, and -Enstice, country season a stroke of bad say they are trying to cultivate. Eade catching, Chapman on first, luck for the Ketzmen. Basketball· Witness the number of athletes who Rice on second, Armstrong hold- coach Pete Nistad wa.s plagued are aking active roles in our stu- ing down the hot corner on third, throughout the entire court season dent government and other activi- . co-captain Bartlett in short stop by injuries to his mainsntays. The ties. slot and Wade, Harp, Young and swimming team dropped several The average student body should Hoculi in the field, Coach Art Ltw- close meets, one of which, in my be composed .of men with all kinds renee broke the bottle of practice opinion, was the result of very of abilities. By placing so much ov-er the Garnet's prow and poor officiating and could have in weight on the academic end our launched her into the sea of base- probability been contested. The Admissions Office is defeating this ball, nine just couldn't seem to very goal. \Union College turns out T click in the clutches and played well rounded students.\ That's the he Union nine met an unpre- d b very erratic ball all_ season and ()ld· battle cry of the administration. leta le Mohawk team as an were further hampered by Billy I say it's impossible to turn out opener and after a series of mis- Eades injury. this ideal student when you draw takes lost by a 9-2 score. Bouncing I do not think that the element your student body from so special· back at Mohawk in the next game of f.ortune was the deciding factor ized a group. with renewed hope and courage, · t d'tl th t h in most cases. It's hig· h time t'hat If the sports ra 1 on a as Union led the Reds 5-0 at the end t · Union undergraduates and alumni been so high at Union in the pas IS of the third. Southpaw Bill Auby realized that their teams are play- to continue to flourish it must be linaHy proved too much for Union b 'ld' ing against schools who are not cultivated. While we are Ul mg who· went down fighting against an '11' d 11 fi' ld afraid to give a little support to a quarter of a m1 wn · o ar 1e · 8-5 score. b t their teams, both financially and house let's do something a: ou Determined not to meet the same occasionally academically. Let's building up the athletic teams who ;:; I Continued on Page 8) quit being ostriches and pull our are to represent Union on the field., We Take Pleasure • greeting . 1n The New Graduates of Union College VAN CURLER HOTEL

n. 1949 23, Walling- 6, Thurston 101~, Dvor- Loomis 6, G. Person- go world at voted good ese can \51\ ink!\ ted glide. s. Two e. The .• FRIDAY, JUNE 11, 1948 7 Noted Athletes Among Seniors Two Were 7 Lette·rment One: 5 letterman Ninett•en ~f tht· n>t-n putting <Hl the cap and gown to ll'C't•i\'P lli~ . plotua·::; this \\'t•t:l{t•th.i lt.t \ t' \\ un Bluck l.''s. This yPa.I '.-.; l'la~s is Wt·11 repre!:3t!ntcd \Vith rnvn \\hu 'l·avt• made theit· nHll'li in IHore than on•· sport. :\!ore than h<1 If <>f t lw Klork U n1~n gr~Hiuatin~ h:t\'t' tt•n•i\\t>tl a\V~Hds 1n t\\ll 111 lllOit' :--!JOlt:-. Ensti<'t•, Ha •·1J.·t.t .-\rt• l.t·ad•·•·-. H·ai Enstlt't• ;,,nd l:ut. !:at tldt lt•ad tlll' llot \lith S<'\'<'tl awa:J~ apiece•. Hig ILl f:ulll Fluohln\ Long Island h'\ Lee n t ht• ma i11 stay on the Gat nPt athlPtil' llt·ld sine~ 1942. H<> lo·d tilt• Dut<'IIIB<'n on the gridiron in 1942 and again in 1942 and 1947. In the last two years he was the l;:auer in yards gained on the ground and also con- nected many timP>' on thE> passing- attack with his strong right arm. Big \H\ was also the 'trong man of thP GRrnPt hn~rhall pitC'hing staff for four yNII'S, 1943. '46, '47. '48. He helped along his pitching chores by carrying a very respect- able slugging averrq.:<' throughout every season. Bob Bartlett ft·om Ogdensburg has been one of th~ strong men in football and hus;:ball since 1942. Bob receive Block l.\s in football in 1942 and 1946. Holding down the shortstop position on the diamoml. Bob has displayed sl~lbr perform- ance on the defence. His work around the kf'ystone sa•·k rat<>d him as the l~M :;hortstop llnion has seen in years. As l'aptain of the 1948 basketball te:1m, Bob turned in a very good job with thE' Union hoopsters. He was the big gun on the '43 Gamet s<JUad and came back aga.in this yl'ar It> spark many plays on the cout ts. Markes Is Third Bob \Whitey\ :-.1arkes from Am- sterdam has received five Block U awards, three in basket ball and two in lacrosse. In 1946., 1947. and 1948, 'A'hitey has been the l'ey de· fensive man for the Union ba:;ket- ballers. His superb play on the de- fense has been outstandin!' and his speed and ag;;tl·S~iveness huve added much drive and S]>ark to the Dutchnien's scoring attacli. Whitey down a midfield pusition on the la- crosse team for the last two years. He has showed remat kable prowess on both offense and defense. His ,;,peC'd nnd spirit hnve made him on€ of the Union high scorers in the \old Indian game.\ Fu<'igna, Coohan and Rpnzano Joe Fucigna has been very active in football, track and lacrosse for the 1st three years. He received Block U awards in 1946 in football and track and in lacrosse in 1947 and '48. Joe has been one of the leading scorers for the Garnet stickmen while holding down the attack position. Gerry Coohan was one of thP leading point scorers for the 1941! Union ski team. He has been out- standing on the lacrosse team for the last two years. His work on attack has led the Gar-net topmost of its victories. Pete Spezzano has won Block U awards in football in 1944, '46 and '47. Pete has been a key man on both the line and in the backfield. His defensive work has broken up many a scoring threat of the Dutchmen's opponents. Ev-erett, Barry and Newton Doug Everett has won two Block U awards during this year. He has proven himself on the hockey rink ' <Continued on Page 8l Golfers Hit 19th Hole Cox:es' choppers hung up the hockeys for the year with a record of three wins to six losses. In the last two matches the muffin men bowed to R.P.I. on the Troy Coun- try Club links seven to two and were blanked by Hamilton at the Clinton course. Joe Behan had the only win in the individual matches at Troy when he beat Bruce Kinlock one up. The other point was garnered by Behan and Baskous in the best ball contest. The Hamiltons threw a stiff team average of even seventy at the boys in shutting them out on the tricky home lay- out. Dick Gregory had a sharp sixty-seven for low score of the day. Frost and Behan had the only close matches but both bowed one down. Athletes ' \' \ Bob Mar),Ps Courtesy Union-Star - ------- --~--------- Tra·ckmen Only Unbeaten Carnet Team Diamon.dmen End Erratic Season Behin·d Whalen.Personeus ~ · MaQueen, High Larossemen Close · Most Hits. Meehan •Armstrong. Wade The Garnet Tmck Te:1m com- Out Rough Season B\' Hart Harris S! ·!ring t hl' ptt• .... pa~on practice \1tl! a ,,zeabh· turnout of forty- f. '.II It.t·IL t'uach .c\1 t Lavn ence soon ' t:t Li.... .::.q lt<u.l tu seventeen and 'h··r: tro lift Pt•n mPn. J.pft with a pleted their best campaign since \Vith 011 \ of it< 1 , 11 :.:! , .• -t ].: 1 . 1936 Ly recording an undefeated crosse schedule~ in it.; lti,ton· in record in five dual meets against front of it, tlw lfll~ \'II, i\n ,.f 1 ht• Trinity, HamiHon, .\fohuwk, R.P.I., Garnet sticknwn r:\t 11 rwt t .... and Roehester. The Dutchmen optimistic eye to th·· futut ,. (_'., :• 1. continued on their winning- ways by copping tup honors In the Fred \\'yatt sa.l\'a.cPd 31> p: '\ i\''' !.·.'1 1\'11 lntt<'ly of font .\lac~uade, RP.L Invitational ~eet which was lives from the fifty rod•! ··:ondida.t•·-' 1'1• tdll'r. Cat sky, and Ensticc, that originally I\'\\ ltd f<>: :'p: :n': 1 E.,],. catd1in:;. Cha.prnun on first, a post-season 9-tearn fray. tryouts, hut thE\ t'\\' impo1 t:<nt ·!:ice un ,.c•eond. Atrnstrong hold- R.P.I. Threatened exper it'lll'P fact<>r \·\·' mi\in~ Th· in.: u•OI\'n thc• hot corn~r on third, Th~ big obstacle in the cinder- lack of this howe\'PI '''\ p:•tti.dJ~· <'u~,apta.in Bart!Ptt in short stop nH'n's fight for an unhlemished eompensat.•tl by tlw ~pit it and ini· !'lot and \\'<~de. Harp, Young and l'N'ord was their meet with a tiative of the matutino.; .-qu::d. Th< ll1•lllli 111 the tit•!tl. Coach Art Ltw- strong R.P.I. team. However. this coaching staff was al<o huL>~tPd by 1 •·nee lor ukt· thP bottlL' of practice obstacle proved to be just another the addition of Vic St:lltPr.~ki 1\}w u\'<'t till' r::u n<'t's prow and milestone in the Garnet's surge volunteered his ~\' \'ict'\ : .. th•· L<tlllchnl het mtu the seu of Lase- when they trounced the Cherry school, and his t 1\'<·nt~· ~·Pat\ !'X~, b:dl. and \Vhite 80 1.'3 to 40 213. Besides perience provetl ib \ut th <I til in~; ThP l'ni .. n nin<\ met an unpre- another victory to add to their list. th ~ 0 e s,as n. j di• !'a hie :\lohawk team as an it also \vas a moral win as it was First blood for tho· D:~tt hm .. n I op•·m·t and aftPr a series of mis- R.P.I.\s first loss in three vears and their fir·st defeat at the hands came on Aptil lOth \\ i1Pn th•· ,;\' · hk\\ lo~t by a 9-2 scorP. Bouncing of the Dutchmen in eleven seasons. net entettainetl th•· str.on~ I•.•' t· b:t,·k at .\luhawk m the next game :vlcQueen and \VhaiC'n starr 0 d fot' mouth College ctickml'lt on Lihr:<Iy \\ith t•·nt•Wed hope and courage, Union: each garnered two first Field. Tht> final sc·ur <'. 1•;-:?, \\ '\ i l'n:un lt-d t hP I{Pds 5-u at the end not indit:ative uf t.h~ gan~t·. :tlld 1 uf \\' t::ud. :;-;uuthpuw Btl! Auby places. ::1-fcQuePn won the 120 yn rd low hurdles. and \\'hal en took thC' the ::-;\ew England Chanq•t·•l•.- \·''' 1 :lll ... i,\ p1 \\L'U tuu rnul'! 1 for L\nion discus and thP shotput. MePt Sununaries In the opening contest, the Gar· nPt steamrolled over a sttong Trin- ity SttUad bv a ~ount of flll 1 r3 to 34 2, 3. The' Union Cmdermen led all the ·way and snagged all but one of the first place spots. Stellar performances were turned in by Whalen and Personeous. \Vhalen set a new 'Union shotput record with a heave of 47 feet and 1 inch. Personeous won high scoring hon- ars by grabbing first spots in the 100 yard and 220 yard dashes and in the broad jump. a highly spit itl'd squad t.h.tt ~h•m t•d I\\;,,. \t·nt duwn ltghttng agamst an pron1ise in n1a.ny Jt·~plTt:-:. Fnt i:..:· ...... :1 :--coiL'. nia and Brady Wt·re outotandun: I fld••rminPd not to mrt-t the ~arne for the Garnet on attack. wllll<·j Bert ~apear tutned 1n an uut-j ~tnnding- dd~n~i\'c I\: f,: :l::tl:. e. : ;-,,,..,,.,_,'--'-' ... '\-'-\-~ The Sampson Indians f~ll pr PY ~ to a much stronger Ga1'11et cluh. \ when the locals chalkrd their fir><t ~ win of the season hy waylaying the '- visitors 14-3 on Libra! y Field. The ~ entire Garnet squad s:.w a• tion '- during the contest. ·with Captain ~ Byron George sharing top hunors ~ along with Francis Forestn. and ~ Tom Quinlan who malkl•d two tal- ~ We • LOOSE ENDS by HERB SAXE ~\van Sung j ~a·ad .!J:I~ .of t~:.t;_ :-;:~n~~ L'.r. i.Jt·~di~n.l A:; conlii~t:nL·eua:nt tl1 a\vs the _cuL-, .tnU t.d,, ,1 1 1lll< 1\ g~ tr.c \' .t. (;und u ..... tuin on the clo\\ of anuthet \'Pet!' at Tht• i-:\ldt'll ag,• of ~foOl t.s for t h·· l\nion Collf'ge, lt'l'.s lu<>k bat:k oVer 1 '\k•• of ·'POI t• is fa't dym..:. ar.d ~-~ that y\ur a.nd sel' 'how Utt· Dutch-/.tn m:;ny \·t:o\l\ •olt .. :u~'.·. dt·a~L \:.·· ll>l'n f:.ued athlettcally for the :o>ea- ''.ll k.t.o\\ tl..<t t .. ,. Lllg• · llllt\t'l r- >un of 194i·411, etnd ju,t fut a stall It,.·.\ tn th:..; <ount::; 1 .. <\•·. 1n lJ.:illY lt•t's luok at tbe :-iLtll:.;ttc.s. ···t::t•.: r:o ('oJfC.J,~Inr ti,~n ~~HJ·It ~~t!J· lt•tUJI l llloll -nl:11ng th··:r :ilhl··t, -- a:.d nu\\ n1:1ny of til .. ~Inallt•t r·~>ll··~···:-~ art~ :1:10• h H.~:.: I Pill;/-. L~ Opp. \\ uU l.u't 1' : ~1 J ...... , .7:1 follow in~.; Fllit. \·'·I 'tll!l II\ ·\ H.t .. 1,,.; t •• t; 1 71\ ::i\\Jfllfllllr,t.; H.t!'ot-h.tl! Ft•• .~.t,·t !I r;,.J·t La~\l'o~:--c }[ut kt•,Y '. t :;h ; 1 : I; !'· ~9 ~! I:<~•} ..... :.: .Hl .I~~ .. 'l'l') .27.:.! .111 T•,tal~ l~t;;p~ l\Ull:: 41 Gl .H;:; * Th1· tliffererwe::; Ill tlw final t>c.ores. There they are, cold and bard. We managed to make two more points than our opponents. although out· overall av~ra.ge was just under .500. If it hadn't been for the out- \tanding succesil of both the track team and the cross country team. we would have fallen far below our opponents in the total number of poi~ts scored. A good many of our contests were won and lost by just the small diffctence of one point and I feel that we had a lot of hard luck this year. Enstices injury during the football season was a great handi- cap to coach John :-.fcLaughry as was Culver's injury during the cross country season a stroke of bad luck for the Ketzmen. Basketball coach Pete Nistad was plagued tht'oughout the entire court season by injuries to his mainsntays. The swimming team dropped several close meet:l, one of which, in m).- opinion. was the result of verr poor officiating and could have in all probability been contested. The Garnet nine just couldn't seem to click in the clutches and played very erratic ball all season and were further hampered by Billy Eades injury. I do not think that the element of fortune was the deciding factor in most cases. It's high time t'hat l:nion undergraduates and alumni realized that their teams are play- ing against schools who are not afraid to give a little support to their teams, both fl.nancial:y and occasionally academically. Let's quit being ostriches and pull our I d'! not :1dV•w<tf•· uut ··n•! uut subotd:wtron f•Jr \\niun: but I do rnaintain that Wfl ~houh! IJl~t('f• n;u1·c t•n1>Jit~:t~is un tht· .t.t hlt·lh' ~tl'ttvitit·:~ eof futur\ t:lind-iduk::; for admi::;::;ion if the school is to continue hPJ' athletic progmm. There is no slur meant when I say that w·e can not hope to turn the valdictol'ians and ~alutatorians we are accE\pting to- day into athletes. There are some men who excel both academically and athletically; but they are few and far between. Those men who have any athletic ability at all are scared out of sports by the extt erne academic leanings of our faculty and ad- ministration. Vvhen a Union athlete takes a game trip he is liable to find upon his return that he has three make-up te,>ts to take in a clay. Taking rnion a~ an example, I believe that you'll find the out- standing athlete i:; thl• well rounded student that the collt·ge officials ~ay th,•y are trying to cultivate. \Vitnes~ the number of athll'les who are aking active role:o> in our· stu- dent government and othl'r activi- ties. The average student body should be composed of men with all ldnd~ of abilities. By placing so much weight on the academic end our Admis:lions Office is defeating this very goal. \Union College turns out well rounded students.\ That's the old battle cry of the administration. I say it's impossible to turn out this ideal student when you draw your student body from 80 sp!'cial- ized a group. If the sports tradition that has been :!O high at l'nion in the past is to continue to flourish it mu>:t h<' rultivat~d. \Vhil~ we nrP buildinf?,' a quart~r of a million dollar fiiPld house let's do something about building up the athletic tPnms who ate to repreilent l'nion on the fil'ld. Take Pleasure The following week the Ketzmen :Continued on Page 8l lieisn each. ~,- . their next encount<>r. thP Eli \; (Continued on Page b 1 tn 9. re e tin g ~etmen End Highly Successful Year; Kdeen. Jesser Elected Co-captains The tennis team lost the last ~ · -~ - game of the season in a hard fought match played on our horne comtf' Friday May 28 with R.P.I. The Engineers came from the los- ing end of a 4-2 score in the singles by winning all three doubles matches, and the meet, 5-4. will be assisted by Snyder ami John Chervanak in forming next yent 's team. It is hoped that fall p1·actice can be held, so that thot>e who were freshmen this year can g.o out and work out with the team. \ The New Graduates of In spite of this defeat, the team maintains an excellent record fot· the season. The only lo!\ses were the season's opener to Stevens, and the closing game of the year to R.P.I. The five games in betwetm were all victories. The rain throughout May caused a great many of the meet>? to be cancelled, and five of the twelve meet.s sc hed- uled were not played. The team was quite strong this year, -and could have made the record even better, had those games been Next year's team will be led bv co-captains Louis Killeen and Hie!~~ ard Jesser, who were Plert<'d last week. They played t]lreC' and five respectively on this year's squad, as well as playing togethl'r on the number two dou-bles team. Union College played .. Block U's were awarded to nine ment for partieipation this year, and an aUa went to one member of the ~quad. This is the first time tennis players have received major awards at Union. Previously mem- bers of the team received tUt awards. The Block U's went to Captian Ivan Scheier, Bert Kusse- row, Louis Killeen, Frasier Henry, Richard Jesser, Hary Hawkes, Silas Steinhart, Douglas Everett and Manager Frank Stern, with Arthur Snyder getting the aUa. Five of the first eight men on the team will graduate this week, leav- ing only Kileen, Henry and Jesser LUCK to '48 MILO'S TAVERN of this year's players. These three 1 I~=============::::J VAN CURLER HOTEL

8 FRIDAY, JUNE H.1948 Garnet versus Ga.rnet at .Baltimore l.ntra·mural Standings c~hi Psi Wi:ns Noggin-Knocke·rs Secure for Season The North-South lacro::>se game~---- --~---·---­ S ft . b 11 A <Continued from Page 7) 0 ·. a 1: ~ . . S of Yale, the Dutchmen met witll.: for the Dutchmen couid not sus~ which took place this afternoon at Johns Hopkins University presented something of a .problem to all loyal Dutchmen. While \Whitey\ Markes was representing the Garnet on the Not'th squad, W. Brooke Tunstall '45, now a senior at Hopkins, was busy espousing the Southetn cause. Both Markes and Tunstall are midfielders· and have ch~lked up fine reco~ds this season. Garnet Coach Fred Wyatt calls Markes \a tireless midfielder, and an ex- cellent utility man with unusual athletic sense.\ Tunstall, who played for Union in 1945, was cap- tain of the Hopkins team this year and has been on the All-American lacrosse team for two years run- ning. Markes, who plans a ca1·eer in public school athletics, and Tun- stall. an engineering student, may rulso compete against each other here tomorrow afternoon in the an- nual Varsity-Alumni game to be played on Library Field at 3 p.m. ---0---- Diamondmen (8ontinued from Page 7) fate at the unsteady hands of Nor- vyich, Union went in fighting, in her next game, and came out on the long end of a 3-2 score. The Garnet's toe slipp€d on the ladder to fame as she lost to Syra- cuse 7-4. Union was not without a few tricks up her sleeve, however. AI Wade blasted his first but not ti'iple over the right fielder's head to bring in the three sons of Union who were waiting on the bases for something exciting to happen. Missing a rained out Hamilton game, Union went on to bE'at Trin- ity by hotly cont<'sted score of ~3. Still d·riving on to what seemed to be turning to a very successful year, the Garnet led by Phil Mac- Quade. shutout the R.P.I. slidE' rule men 3-0. AI Wade kept his sights on the ball all th-e way and blasted out two doubles and a single to bring his batting average well over the .30() mark. With Enstice sticking close to the mound for a full nine innings, the Dutchmen slumped in the eighth inning to lose to the Middle- bury men 9-6 on their home field. The game with Hobart was called because of some more rain so the Garnet went on to tackle the Yellowjackets from Rochester. Since there seemed to be an over- abundance of prom beer surging -around their memory filled brains, the Union nine had difficulty see- ing the balls Carl Wren of the Yellowjackets hurled at them. Bartlett, who seemed to hav€ spent the soberest weekend, made one or two stellar catches that would bring light to the eyes of even Bob Ripley. Union was left on the short end of an 8-3 score. Sobered by a tight 4-3 loss to the collegians at Stevens, the Garnet smashed back at th-e cocky Roch- GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X~RAY Fl'l'TING 245 STATE ST.-Since 1893 MILK VItamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE 6-2351 FRENCH Cleaners and Dyers 129 JAY STREET • \Reliable Service•• • Phone 6-4295 JV Lacrossemen Finish. 6et Award · . opposition that pvo¥ed too strong :tain their en-ergy .to add the •re~ ' H .l!!lll~·.k. 5 ·Hu·r•l•.s for them, and the final whistle·:quired tally in the ·free scoring U 1'V sounded with the Eli in the lead:· game. ----- · 8•4. For the Garnet, It was a l;lard · · The Dutchmen turned in the best M I Sta din Harry Hawks hurled his Chi Psi 1 '11 th fi 1 h b t th · A c c o r d i n g to undergraduate lnh·a ura n gs fougl:lt batt e tl e · n s • u. e .performance of the s-eason whe:J?. Ph . G D It 7\2 208 teammates to a 2-1 victory over ld d i d Coarh Clement Tornllns, among the 1 amma e a · · · · · \' · · · · · \ · Yalites fie e · . an exp~r ence · they met a strong but battle weatiy' d Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 615,839 the Phi Gams in the intramural d d the difference m score twenty-one \frosh\ who receive Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 611.620 softball championship play-offs lMt squa an . . . , University of Virginia squad. on their 1951 nuni.{'rals, Norman Carr, Chi Psi ....................... 562.728 k Tb . 1 t . was proporttonal to th1s f. actor •• Library Field. The 13'outhernt)rs I 5 46 547 wee ·. e ·tlg 1 game was a · 1 G t t d n Walter Cause\. John Greve and Sigma Ch • • · · ... · • · · · · · · · · · · ... · • Goalie B1l . ran urne 1n .a : fielded a mu.ch more ·expeJ;ieneed \ Dnlta Ph1' 539 654 pitchers battle all the way, with h G t th R . I I W h d th t · ~ · .. · · .... · · · .... ·.... · 8 · ex;ceHent job for t e arne WI· · .• squ\·d •but the. Ga11.net ·threate.ned. te 1n rc agner s 0\l:e e mas Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '526.87 Jim Pemet·ick handling the mound ht th a promise. •Kappa !'lu .. .. • .. •• .. .. .. • .. . 605.693 duties for the Phi Gams. many saves that caug e (lyes ., consistently, and only the final The results for the tht:ee official Kappa Sigma · · · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · 499 · 077 of the responsive crowd. ''whistle decided the outcome. The Phi Sigma Delta .. .. .. .. . .. .. 444.763 Hawks found himself in diffict.tlty. Stevens 'Tech managed to edge a· 8~7 score of the CQhtest speaks for gamps played wel'C: RPI 5, Union Alpha Delta Phi ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · 409cHS only once and that was during the th • O; William 24, U 4; RPI 8, U 3. Theta Delta C'hi .... · ·. · · · · ·· · 378.655 6-4 win over the Ga·rnet when e itself. . h M'd p 81 · Upsilon ................. , 366.610 second inning when the Phi Gams 1 . 1 . t ·k to the 1 ~oad the follow- · fi f th An unofficial \'ame result wtt 1 - 667 oca s ·oo .. Tomorrow the na:l .game o . e \' Kappa Alpha ........... · · · · · · 350. had the bases loaded wHh no outs. S die bury showed hope. however, Delta Chi ... .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. . 27~.i~5· The ·batter attempted a bunt, but ing aturday. ·.season will be hel'd on Library wh~n Union won a 5-0 shutout. Rebels . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · · · · · · 2 5 · was hit with the batted bail for an The Dutchmen marched back 1 Field when the Garnet meet their · Black F'leet · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 214 · 285 · th t' th f 11 i b th I · L\b F'· ld The award winners wPre: Fred Night Owls .. .. ...... .... ... .. 159.!35 automatic out, while the runners mto e coun mg e 0 ow ng', ro er a, umm: on 1· l'll.ry ·le · Reck, Norman Carr, Fred Com- Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . . . . . 153.o70 held. Bases still loaded and O'Con- week by defeati-ng the Lehigh:· Prospects for next season are stork, James Carmichael, Steve Ramblers .................... 1 ~f'~~2 nell lined to the second baseman stickmen 4-3 in a contest that was,.quite bright with the e~.perience E I C Snerzigs · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ··· '1:2• • 0 · slowed up considerably by the , factor ·in favor of the Garnet. '±\ ... he DiMarco, Steve· I gin, Wa t ausey, Sigma Phi .................. , 120.285 who quickly threw to .fi.rst to catch Dave Green, John Greve, Len Oldgym ..................... · 108.331 Gordy Personeous off for the dou- stringent refereeing. Tallys for team will miss the. ·serviees .of Ht>ck, Bob Horn. George Jung, Cal verts .. · .. · .. \\\ ...... \· 107 ·56~' ble play and' the third out. Ga·rnet were marked by George,; Goalie Grant and Attackman Ch M k M S N. C. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 75 : Barr,y, Quinlan and ·Flynn who· Markes, but this should be com~ Rog-€r Hahn, ·aries ar ason, v· 5 8' • • • • . • . • . • • • • • • • • •. • • • •• • 68.180 Here are the final league stand- th Bill Molt, Ken Schneeloclt, Bob B. E~ U. . .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. .. . .. . 64.285 ings for all the teams· :managed to find home with · e, pensated bjr the know-how received Strand, Dick Wagner, and Tom Indians · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · · · · · 64 · 285 : · • winning goal late in the fourth·· by the balance ·of the squad this W M p t Fyf d B b ::-;!orth College . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50.000': Title Play-off Results~Snerzigs .over .. period. , season, ·hit e. grs. e e ·e an · o Wildcats· . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50.000 the •Cal verts 1-0; Phi Gamma Delta . \Vest also made 195'1 numerals. Beach Combers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5().00() ovet· the Snerzig~ 4-1; Chi Psi over The Big Orange of Syt'acuse:' Markes was elected to the All~ Daffodils .............. ···. · ··· '50.000 K!\1 15-4: Chi l'si over Phi Gamma proved to be more than a challenge 'North team Iast week, and will ---o · Delta for the championship 2•1. for the Dutchmen in their next· leave immediately after .graquation esterites to leave them quaking in , American Len.gne game, and the locals ended Up on for the contest that wlll be beJd the wake of a 3~0 shutout. Mighty c· •l\\dermen Won Lost % B'll t · · u Chi Phis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 o 1.000 tho >low end 6f a 8-4 score. 1 · with the All-Sou h squad in Balti~ mite MacQuade pitched one of his (Continued from Page 7) !'hi Delta Theta .. .. .. 4 1 .800 Grant sparkled the defense with· more. · best games of the season against ·Phi Sigma Kappa · · · · 2 3 .400 · 20 saves for the Garnet. Union's -~--o-~-- the power at the camera city. The scored their second straight tri- Rebels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 3 .400 A N . umph by swamping the Hamilton. rnciians ............... 'l 4 .200 contribution to the 11- orth team, ·.Senior Athlet-e· s. four scattered hits that did slip' Aggregation 101 to 25 . The Dutch- Beta Eta Upsilon . . . . i 4 .200 The Ephmen of Williams came by his close scrutiny were ably men took first place in all the United League through with a 12-6 win to off•set.' (Continued from Page 7) taltcn care of by the rest of the events. Whalen broke his shot put Phi G:amma Delta ... :''o~ L~st 1.680 tGhe previous year's :Win of dthe and on the tennis. courts. Doug battling Union nine. arn t · u h contest bel at · B h b k •h record, set the ·previous week, with Phi Sigma Delta . . . . . 4 1 .800 e m a ro g · arry as . een <L · ey man on \ e Not wishing to slight the R.P.I. a heave of 48 feet and 8 'h inches., Delta Upsilon . .. . . . . . 3 2 .600 Williamstown, Mass. Markes .lacrosse field. for Union and '\von tro]'ans, the Dutchmen shut them b th Sigma Chi · · ·· · · · · · · · 2 3 · 400 sparked the Garnet effort to coun- a\'ards 1 ·n this sport 1 ·n 1947 \'nd McQueen and Personeous won o ::>ight Owls 1 4 200 · \ ~ out once again to the tun€ of an of their races, and Milford's second Beach Combe~~·::::::: o 5 :ooo .tet,act for the first .period handicap '48. He has led the stickmen's at- 8-0 score. This made the third 12 foot pole vault was the best per- Eastern League that was suffered when the Purple tack in both s·easons. ifohn New~ shut out of the season for Phil formance for small colleges this Won Lost % . slipped a barrage that placed them ton won Block u awards in foot- MacQuade and the second in a row Snerzigs · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 4 0 1 :~~g' in th. e lead,. but the. e.ffort was to no. ball in 1942 and again in 1946. h. h 1 1 d season. Delta Phi · · · · · · · · · · · · 3 1 .500! avail, and the Wlll1ams st1'cksters w 1c oo {S goo on any man's The following day saw the Mo- Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . 2 2 ·Other men who· are gradu!l,tin,g score sheet. A:! Wade, recovering hawk 'Trackmen fall prey to the Black F'leet .... · · · · · · 1 3 .250 maintained their lead. , this yea·r and who have won Block from an in]'ury rE'c€ived 1'n the firs· t · Daffadils · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 4 • 000 Hobart College likewise· proved U' H H k t · surging Dutchmen who ran their National Leagne s are: arry aw es, enms game against the Yellowjackets, victory string to three. Although won Lost % their worth on the field when they '48; Ivan Scheir, tennis captain '48; got back in the swing of things Union led all the way, their ad-, *}(appa .Nu . . . . . ... . . . 4 1 .800 defeated the visiting Garnet 11C8 at Silas Steinhart, tenn.i,g '48; Bob and let loose with another triple t d th ghout Kappa S1gma . . . . . . . . . 4 1 .800 Geneva. The entire 18 man squad Webster, basketb!J;ll !46; Vince into deep center fl€ld. van age was presse rou · Alpha Delta Phi · · · · · · 3 2 · 600 saw act' f th 1 I b t th D'A · 1 f tb 11 the meet. The margin of victory Beta Theta Phu . . . . . . 2 3 .400 wn or e· oca s, u e ·m1c , oo a '48; Burt Kusse~ The Tenchers from Albany State was due to the Garnet's ability to A. s. C. E. . . . . . . . . . . . 2 3 .400 Statesmen were deep in reserves, row, tennis· '48; and Donald White, prove to be easy prey for the Gar- place second in elev-en of the Ramblers · · · · · · · · · · · · · 0 5 .000 and the 18 man travelling squad track '46. . * \Von .play-off. nets although Union played some events. Hunt, of Mohawk, turned m Western League mighty sloppy ball. The score was the best individual performance by Won Lost % an impressive 11-3, however. The snarring first place in the 100 yard . Cal verts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 0 1.000 next two games wl.'re defeat in dash, 220 yard dash, 120 yard high ~{;~faa &\~~aci 1 i ·:::: :: i ~ :~gg quick succession for the seasoned hurdles, and 220 yard low hurdles.· Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 3 .250 but weary Union rn€n. They lost to In the final dual meet of the '48 Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 3 .250 Colgate and to Hamilton by scores season, the Union Tracksters of 11-7 and 7-4, respectively. challted up their fifth straight tri- The team wound the season up umph by shellacking the Rochester with a .428· average or six wins· and Squad 96 to 30 to terminate the eight losses. Union had a total of season with a 5-0 record. The out- 71 points scored against her while come was never in doubt -as the she scored a total of 66 against her Ketzmen garnered 12 out of the 14 opponents. first place points. Whalen and The individual batting averages for Personeous were once again high the p!arers are as follows: scorers with ten counters apiece. G AB H % Whalen took the shotput and dis- 8 16 6 .375 cus, and Personeous placed first in 14 62 22 .355 the 100 and 220 yard dashes. Four 13 48 16 .312 14 56 17 .304 members of the squad completed 12 38 10 .262 the season undefeated by a mem- 14 49 11 .224 ber of the opposition. They are: 10 33 7 .212 14 57 12 .210 Whalen in the shotput, Westlund 8 24 6 .208 in the javelin, and Culver and 14 56 11 .196 Wright in the mile and half mile 3 6 1 .167 10 34, 5 .147 :\ieehan ....... . Armstrong .... . \Vade ......... . Bartl..,tt ...... . Earle .......... . Enstice ...... .. :\I acQ uade .... . ltke ......... .. Young ........ . Chapmai> ..... . t~a.rsli:y ........ . Hoehuli ....... . runs. COLONIAL ICE CREAM CO. Ice Cream at Its Best 134 Mohawk' Avenue Phone 6-3443 BEST of Scotia LUCK To The CLASS James· M .. McNearney Wholesale Distributor No .Finer Place to Eat Try Us On Your Next Date * PELOP'S 438 STATE ST. (Near Proctor's) Greetings and Good'Wishes From the Communist Party Schenectady County We share with you the desire for Peace, Security and Dem.cracy We pledge ourselves to defend our greatest possession- the ·Constitution of The United States Congratulations Schenectady County Republ.ican Committee Clarence Bradshaw. Chairunon Rebecca McNab, Vic:e Chairman