1 1948 rts by . ,:: .. Founded at Union College in 1877 PRICE 10 CENTS Vol. 76, No. B SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1948 Garnet Stalks Panthers; '·'Holiday' Mood At Union Two Kappa Nus ru·e shown above breaking ground for the new Kappa Nu fraternity house to be e1•ected in the northeast comer of the .campus. With shovels ·are ·Merton Sarnoff, house president and Ha;r1·y Kaplan, alumlii. adviser to the local chapter. Show:C: seated m the background· are, left to right: Walter C. Balter, chairman of _the board of trustees of the college; Garson Meyer, national president of Kappa Nu, and Carter Davidson p1•esident of Union College. Fhot; by Schwartz Award For Groups in Field House Drive The great Duke Ellington and his band will provide the · incentive for merry-making · tonight at the Alumni Gym- nasium, when the ''Football Holiday\ opens, as Union men inaugurate what they hope · will be a very auspicious week- . end, featuring both the Duke · and the blasting of the Glass Bowl hopes of the Middlebury football team. · For tonight, the composer of such tunes as \Solitude\ and \Sophisti- cated Lady\ will offer his inter- . ·pretation of modern songs solely for· the benefit of Union under- graduates, but after midnight, for 25 minutes, students must be satis- fied with sharing his music with the millions of listeners of the Na- tional Broadcating Company. The ' program will be aired throug)l the facilities of WGY and carried on a coast-to-coast hookup. The student campaign to raise funds for the proposed Memorial Field House swung into high gear this week. Chair- ~en from the Student Committee of 200 ha\Te been appointed m each fraternity house, dormitory, and activity and in- dividual canvassing of every man. attending the college was begun. . - Supplementing the Duke's inimi- table style at the keyboard will be such attractions as Johnny Hodges on the alto-sax; Ray Nance on the violin; Harry Carney on the bari- tone sax; Lawrence Brown on the trombone; Junior Raglin on the bass; and Kay Davis and AI Hib- bler providing the vocals. Ebony A supercharg~d Garnet g r i d machine w ill b e tuned to shatter and grind up Middlebury College's Glass Bowl bid tomorrow afternoon, when the de- termined Dutchmen col- lide with the potent and undefeated Panthers on Alexander Field at 2 :00 P.M. in what promises to · be the most furious foot- ball battle of the se~son . Middlebury Powerful The big Blue and White squad from Vermont, un- beaten in its last ten outings, is noted as one of the strong- est smal1 college teams in the East, and subsequently is seeking an invitation to the Glass Bowl held · in Toledo, Ohio, during December. Although the Garnet will be the slight underdog for the fiirst time this season, they are explosively packed with winning and revenge- ful notions as they seek their sixth victory in seven starts. The oppor- tunity to trap a Panther does not come the Dutchmen's way every week, and the fact that last season they were clawed, 26-12, makes the incentive all the stronger. Material awards ·are now being offered to the group fr.om whom pledges are received from 100 per cent of its members. A plaque will be placed in the field house com- mmorating the first fraternity, the first dormitory, and the first stu- dent activiy whose members all agree to contribute. The cJ.ass with the highest percentage of donors to the campaign will also have a plaque in the ·field house proclaim- ing its loyalty to the needs of the school. Murphy Loser In Roaring Race Advance information indicates that tonight's p.rom will be one of the best attended dances ever held at Union. In addition to the usual crowd of upper c1assmen, a large number of freshmen, given a spec- ial \social Sophomore\ status, is expected to swell the total to well over 450. The Prom, itself, will not be the only attraction of the weekend. Prof. William Murphy made a Plans call for \Beat Middlebury\ strong showing in his race for displays to be prepared by the in- Congressman this Tuesday. He dividual fraternities. These displays polled about 68,000 votes, com- will be judged by a group of faculty pared to the 76,000 votes for Re- members selecedte by the \Foot- publican incumbent Bernard Kear- ball Holiday\ committee. The ney, and the 4,500 for ALP An- . judges include Dr. Benjamin P. drew Petersen. The 31st Gongres- Whitaker, Dr. Frank P. Albright, sional District, in which Murphy and Dr. Alexander Arony. Awards . was running, has been Republican for the layouts deemed best by the quite consistently ,and even his judges will 1Je made during the staunchest supporters did not ex· ceremonies ·at the end of the half Suggestions\ Requested The game tomorrow will be the 19th struggle in a 46 year old series between the two schools, and the series advantage will be an- other item at stake. Up to now Union has seven wins and seven (Continued on Page 5) Union College will fake complete ®---------------- control of all veterans housing units on campus November 15 when the Schenectady Municipal Housing Authority will relinquish Dutch- . man's Vlllage and the Pasture Dor- the possession of the college it will remain up to the administration and the board of trustees to make the decision when to remove the units. J oRo Confident in NewNewDealDea] As to the amount of the pledge sought from each individual, all sen'iors are asked to agree to con- tr.ibute 50 \dollars and all other un- dergraduates 25 dollars by June 30, 1950. ---o•--- pect a victory. of Saturday's football game. mitories. The units were erected in the fall of 1946 and regulations under which they were built called for their demolition in five ye-ars. Now that these buildings have come into The comptroller's office will be responsible for assigning single students and Miss Travis will be in charge of allotment of units for married students. Student Wives To Hold Affair All Our -Lost An analysis . of this year's elec- tion returns shows people and polls might be held similar to dogs and poles, decided Prof€ssor Joseph Ro- tundo, in the last Thursday elec- tion orations. \I am glad that there will be clear party control in Wash- ington,\ sard Mr. Rotundo. \It will men cooperation in government, and show very definitely where to --------------------------------.pin responsibility.'' The campaign reflects credit on \the plucky little fellow\ who confounded the ex- perts, worked against party splits . and cabinet apathy to eme:r;ge vic- Magic Weekends--- They're ~ By Joseph Enzer unexplored by the chaplain's pio- Union, proud mother, opened her neers-a small group of student These three plays do not possess the qualities of great drama, but unintentionally they tell us more of the week-end than the mere facts; that is if we try to relate the contOO!.t and meaning from each of the presentations to its counter- part in· campus events. the two female leads was some- what ineffectual, but Jane Ballou was quite refreshing and very much in character as a New Eng- land housemaid. The mood of this play was very much like the mood of the week-end; escape and happi- ness. Union College will have a \Gam-. arms once again and welcemed her actors and actresses from several bling Night\ November 19 when sons back to the scenes of pleas- up-state polleges participated in a the Student Wives Club will pre- urable living. Old grads returned drama fe~>tival. Three one-act sent its annual affair for members and the usually attractive women plays were presented following a in Dewey Hall. In the next official seemed more abundant. Dinners group dinner which featured an ad- meeting on November 17 the club were hel!i, teas were given, com- dress by Walter Abel, noted .stage is to have Mrs. Wilma Scott of the mittees and councils met, and cher- and screen star. During an !nter- Schenectady School system shGW ished ideals were uncovered in a v.iew, Mr. Abel stated that no mat- The Williams' play, the best of \The Valiant\ has been haunting an educational movie at the home ground breaking ceremony. And ter what side of the footlights he the group, describes through a theater-goers for many years and is of Mrs. Wilford Ketz. odd numbers of t\nclassified animal was on he always felt a. keen sensitive characterization of a one of the most widely performecl Twenty-five members of the club specimens from primitive caves of thrill whenever that \old rag\ was delta drummer the deterioration of melodramas on the American ·attended a meeting last Wednesday Williamstown crawled into little raised, and everythfng becomes the south and its inability fo break boards; it presents a picture of at which Miss Barbara Hayden, so- corners of the campus. just so magic. away from the traditions of the young courage, pathos and tears. ciety editor of the Schenectady · past. Robert Miller as the old Its dramat1'c content saves 1't from · But Union, happy in the re-as- That was the theme of the week- Union-Star, was guest speaker. f f . 1 d f · d protagonist, possessor of 15 gold the fate of a soap-opera thriller; semblage o · arm Y an nen s, end, magic. And in the process of t h t 'b t t h- 1 d 0 was even generous in welcoming observing the pr·o.ceedings of the wa c es as ri u e 0 IS ea er- the cast was quite uneven and at , ship in sales for 15 years, sustained times over-dramatic. It seems as A • t. dt Ch • the unusual, purple breed. The. week-end, from one end of the h' h t . t· 'th 1 P . ']JOZn e 0 azr IS c arac er!Za !Otl WI unusua though they were carried away by · true generosity of Union, however, campus to the other and through t 't d d th f d t d _ ma un y an ep o un ers an - the proCM·am. But that's not at all was best expressed by a speaker in the middle, I wa. s somehow forced · M·11 • t· f th o• President Carter Davidson an- 1 mg. 1 er s percep Ion o e por- unusual. There was eve·n an air of • the ceremonies dedicating a P ot of to throw my allegiance with the lit- t d h t · d' t b'I nounces that Dr. Harold W. raye c arac er m !Ca es an a 1 - self-pity and dejection in the faces Blodgett, chairman of the Depart- ground when he said that \we are tie grou~ in Hanna Hall; it was ity to see the things in their proper of the defeated Williams team and indeed fortunate and happy that their type of ·magic that most ap- 1 1 th t II t d t ment -of ·English, has been ap- · d ·t d P aces; a esson a a s u en s · ·their supporters. · But Union men pointed Thomas Lamont professor Union has always opene I s oars pealed to me. Magic of the stage c. an l.earn .and are ca. pable of learn- .weren't quite guilty of such maud- to IPinorities.\ is unreal and at times reaches an f th th 1 of English literature by the Board m~ 1 ey can vie;w . .emse ves lin performances, not quite, and of Trustees. The new chair has The high point of the rituals was extreme of unreality so that it is. w1th some sort of. obJectiVIty. Per- besides they were on the winning been endowed by a $ 200 , 000 gift of · reachea Saturday afternoon at possible by means of intent peer- haps a great play of college life, side this week. the late Thomas w. Lamont, fi- Alexander Field when eleven ing to find the fragments o( reality with home-coming week-ends and nancier and former partner of Union Gods destroyed the false upon which this magic is based. football games and all of the trim- J.P. Morgan. in honor of his father, Idols, during which time they were Three aspects of life were re- mings included, will be written :Rev. ·Thomas Lamont, who was Sl.!pporled by psalms and benedic- fleeted in the one-act plays which and it will then give us the oppor- graduated from Union in 1856. tions from an enlightened prayer Hartwick, Russel Sage ap.d Union tunity of seeing things in t}).eir. torious. · Mr. Rotundo noted that occasion has been offered for everyone to practice spirit u a! humiliation. \Everyone was wrong,\ he declared ecstatically. Smug thought was dealt a severe blow, and polls will cease to dictate opinions to ador- ing- people. Lucius Bt-an was th!l only oracle who committed himself to predicting a D€mocratic sweep in Congress. Dr. H. A. Larrabee was complimented for reference to Bean. \Old Mose\ Stratton was given a bouquet . for the fighting words \It is impossible for anyone <Dewey) to back into the White House when someone is trying the front way.\ ---o•---- Rivalry Intensified Inter-class rivalry is approaching a new high in o0pportunities for par ticipation, with the Soph-Frosh fracas claiming nearly a dozen events. The Russell Sage production of \The Ptlrple Doorknob\ was an en~ tertaining comedy concerning two women from completely different levels of society who find a com- mon bond in their search for es- cape and j:lappiness in the mutual love of the theater. The acting of Dr. Blodgett has taught at Union group which encircled the area.. college presented as the main at- proper perspective. since 1936 and in 1945 succeeded This ceremony symbolized the pur- traction of the festival: Tragedy, Dr. Btirgess Johnson as head of pose of all the people who at- comed'Y and melodrama \an took the English department. Before tended Union's Homecoming Week- their place on the small stage of coming to Union, Dr. Blodgett . end; they were all searching for Hanna Hail. Tennessee Wililams' taught at Cornell, the University their little bit of magic. And Union \The Last of My Solid Gold of Illinois; Dart:JPouth, and Keuka became all things to all men. Watches,\ Walter Pritchard Eat- College. He is a graduate of Gar- Unnoticed in a small corner of O'n's \The Purple DoorlmO'b\ ahd nell University and also received Washburn Hall-while these other \The Valiant\ . by H. :Hall and R. his doctorate there. activities reached religious heights Middfemass. Yes, a good time was. had by all and Union did well by her chil- dren; she kept them warm, safe and happy. In Union there is strength and security. And tonight starts the ceremonies of another week-end; and there are other things to find; in the music of El- lington and his band, the pretty dates, the housepa.rties, the foot- ball game and the general air of well-being and contentment. Yes, another week-end and a little more, perhaps, much more-magic. To date, the class of '52 is run- ning second, with the possibility of losing by ten points if they take every event remaining, including bridge. The fledgling scholars emerged victorious in ping-pong, swimming, and gained concession of triumph in tennis. The worldly- wise sophomores racked up the pool match, along with football, lacrosse, volley-ball, and basket- ball. Chess r·emainR to be run-off, along with a tug-of-war on Friday.

I' ,\ 1 \ j :: I . ~ ,•\ !jl, !· 2 Ill: i 'f ., \ FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 194$ By }ames .Baar !~~ Ef!o~ader Writes The Happy Hour Two articles in the October 29 edition of The I felt so ·lousy, and then it was at derson and dragged her into the C d . . 1 Why Betty Winters, I didn't men's room, I·•t was· J·ust lucky· arnurnr oncor Hons1s 1ave prompted me to write this d' Y 1 tt o · h · know that you were down here this that crude Howy Townsen 9 • es, that Lola's date was in the:ve or n~~;·e: the ot~er a. letter to the editor by Jerry F. weekend: whom are you with?. that's right; over ne!llr Hartford. I we'd .be in Detroit right now. e . er... ne 1s t e \Dutchmen's Village Question- 0 Netll Ji·., di~cussmg merits of a new field house Oh, yes, of course I know Tut; I remember it as if it were last Is that them honking for me Member A\sodated Cul- 'legiate Press and distri- butor of th...: l ~ullq.;:a tc Digest_ :\ 1 a tiona I Atl\•.,r .. tising Reprc:;enluliV<·: :-l.t- tlonal Ad\'ertising S· f\'ll'<', Inc., College l'uhli\lwr\ Itepresenlutive, 420 ~la:\i­ son Ave .. N. Y. C. Puh- Jished every Fritlay of tlw school year. j.;,Jilnrial Offi< <', \\'tbhiHifll Hall. Union Cul\ege, !'ub- lH :tth.'u urfil't?, 'l\he (;:t~ zl'ltt' l'r,..~g. 33 t State ~t l:llt~It.'U in lht• S~hllll'l'-. tady l'o-.t Uffiq· as ~. l'- owl Clas< :\!ail :\lallt•r, ~ulJ .. t:riptiun lt.Je a C'''l'Y. $3 )'<·ar; dell\'el'<·d :111~­ w.hcte in the ~·11itt>d !\'t:lte~. in ccntrast to other ob· ·ou 1 d d · 11 outside? Let 'em wait, I had to. on the c~mpus. >I s y nee e Improvements used to date him when I was a night, or just about as we . . whHe they all sobered up this 1 . b freshman, but I didn't know that Darling, you should have been aftei·noon. Why? That's w. hat I'd l,!Uestwn num er two of the \DV Questionnare\ h t'll d th h y u , ..·t·h 1 us last night: you'd really . . b . e was s 1 aroun oug . o • lil'e to know. Things are J·ust mttulres a out the quota of housing unit~ to be a!- must be having a terrific time, if have died. Do you know Coki ge.tti'ng stuffy· a·i·otmd hel.'e, tha·t's lotted to members uf the faculty and to students. he i a \thin li'l e h u d to be Owen? Well you should because \v 11 I th h · s n, g { e se · all, and I .mean sttJffy. Do you e a· tnow e ousing situation in Schellec- He's t t th t · I always he is the funniest person that I've t d . so cu e oo; a lS, know that we were a.ll thrown out a Y IS E'Xtremely critical. We also can be fair!v thoug·ht he was although a Jot of ever met. Really, I'm not cxag-. I t h . d' ' · · ' · of .the Gardens this n.nornin.g ·be• sure t 1a t 1s c~n 1tion will not be greatly improved the !{ids llsed to laugh \\hen I'd geratlng, he should be on the radio f t . w 1 · ' ' cause of a little .party we· we:te'hav- 01' some 1me. e a so might notice that a con- say that. or something. Do you know what sidcrablc portion of the present population of Dutch- But, dear, where have you two he did all night long? He wal!,ed• ing down there, and' ·erie of 'Guff's men·~ Village l'onsists of faculty and staff members. been all weeltend'? I don;t ·know around the Tri-Rho House with- fraternity bt•othei's tol'd him that if Another fact that might be app:u·ent to the casual why 1 haven't noticed you any out a stitch on except for a spit- he couldn't ~ct like a Tri-Rho :he observet· is that Dutchmen's Village is not noted place. Guff and I have been just· toon tied to his head and ltept didn't have .to come bl:!,ck for· any- fc r Its palatial ue<:<>llllllu<'ations. Huw long can the overywhel e. \Vhat? Oh, you mug! insisting that he was an Abner more weekends. Well, you s]louid faculty be expected to live unde1 conditions su<.:h 1 G ff ·r • t · h T t Dean cartoon. I thought that he have heard Guff tell that kid off, George T. Orit'k ...... . . ............ Et!llnr Jam~s lluur ... . Albert Corbo ......... . Jaml\• ~!Uri'IIY. Herbert ~axl' Robel'! lh•lnt•mll.lln .... . Franels llll•ehan ........ . . \ .. o.,u(~iuh• )·~tlitor . ~htnnglng I·:•llt<>r 'ill\\'~ l·:ditnr ... Spnrt• l:dttnr .. Photn Etl it or . ... l'il't'Ulntiun :'llnnngt•r Bll.,.lflP\'~ :\lnnagPr tnow ,u 1 you re ou wit u . I .don't kno\' Vl'llat hi'l3 nam· e· w· as· m; exist in this housing problem'? The two of them started togethPr was going to be thrown right. out \ The suggestion has been advanced that the col- ir. prep-school. I remember when I on his ear, but instead the 1dea or who he thought he wa~, but 110 lege cons1der the erection of a new libwry. This is first met them. They were always caught on. It was just like undergraduate ever spoke to the Lambert Oin,Jwrg a worthy undertaking but 1 don't bdieve books are sticldng with each· other, and it charades! alumni like t~at when the Guffer as sensible a s humans to ct·owded conditior.s. The was at Murry Rothman's ski party. The .prom? Oh, no: I really wish \\'US in college. faculty. 1 think, should be considered more neces- Guff wa;; so drunlt; oh, he was we had made it because everyone Honlt! Go ahe!!.d and honk! Lis- sary than Looks if not a lot of us would have en- just a panic, and Tut was running says that it was tremendous, but ten hqn, I better go before they rolled in correspondence schools. around writing his initials on all that damn Guff. You won't be- raise the dead, but you •and. Tut EDITORIAL With the appl'oaelting game with :Jliddle- bury, evNyone has his attc>nt ion focused on Union's team. The team is good, en~ry­ body admits, !Jut very few seem to stop to consider why it is good. The team, one of the best in Union h istot·y, is the result of the supel'll coaching on the part of John McLaughry, with the alJle assistance of his staff. and the inspired playing of its mem- bers. The questwn I would nuw li!HJ to see answer£'d of the girls' legs. Hasn't Tut ever lieve this, but we all met in New loolt for U.s later, nk. I'm just .dy- is, \Bow many f oud professors have rejected ur rc- told you about that? Ask him York and came up on the 4:00 yes- I ing to s~e the old so-and-so again, sJg-ned a posJti<-n as !Jnion due to the college's in- sometime; it was just a riot. terday afternoon Sind Guff was so 1 and you 11 love Guff. We wo:Q.'t pe ability to provnlc• suitable living quarters?\ You know this is all really won- gone by the time that we got to 1 going back to the city until tamar- Another of my interests, more selfish perhaps, is tlerful meeting you: listen, why Schenectady that he refused to get row night so if we mJss· you th~s to get the faculty out of Dutchmen's Village and don't we ditch the boys for awhile off the train. Oh, it was gt·and. evening, we'll get together tamer- make room fm· the students who cannot afford more and talk ove1· old times. Remem- We got him as far as the door to row. Wait'll you check Guff's expensive apartments. ber the last time I saw you and our car, and he grabbed Lola An- matador routine; you'll dil;l. l offer the suggestion that the trustees consider The l\IiddlelJury-Union game is attractinO' wide national attention as Union makes it~ bid for recognition as a small coJleO'e pO\\'er and Middlebmy faces its onlv re';J th1·eat to a bid to the Glass Bowl, the. \Rose Bowl\ of the small colleg-es of this area. Should Uni~:m either win or make a good showing aga.mst the powerful :\Iiddleburr team its prestige, and the prestige of its coach.' \Vill be greatly heig-htened. In ~he event that Union does make a good showmg, Coach :\IcLaughry will find him- sel~ ~n the envialJle position of being the rec1p1ent of many bids from other, victory- starved, colleges, who would IJe well pre- pared to offer such enducements that they w~uld IJe hard to tum down. In view of this f~ct, we IJelieve that the college,- the alumm, and the students should make every effort ~o assme that, in the future, Union men will be playing on, not against, i\lc- construction of a. large, family-type apartment build- ing to house faculty members. I think this would do more for the welfare of the collB\ge than any other plan now under consideration. Very truly yours, DAVID J. BULGER, '51. ----0 For Your Information The increased cost of living, together with the r!'cord enrollmt>nt of' the college have served to mal>e the Interfraternity Council reaffirm its policy con- cerning parties given by the fraternities. Crowded conditions, Jack of facilities, and prohibitive expense has again brought the following resolution; The fraterr:ities \\ lll hold open house from 9 till 12 for a II students of the college with dates on the Satur- day evenings of the Gridiron Ball, Winter Weekend, and Junior Prom. All other pa1·ties shall be closed except by invitation. Skh'more College invites all interested Union men to try out next week for parts in \The Glass Menag- Grie\ by Tennessee \Villiams. The play goes on December 10-11 and rehearsals will be two nights a wee!<. See ~Ir. Davis in Hanna Hall for full particulars. The IFC dec.ision, voted upon over a week ago, was d<'leted from last week's issu!\. MAKE UP EXAMS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8 9:00 A.M. Chemistry lla-Little .......... CL 104 Chemistry 25a-Ewing ......... CL 104 Education 4a-Pearce .. Psych. Lab. 103 11:00 A.M. G~eek la-Coffin ........... BH 300 E History 27a-Doty ............. BH 109 Biology la-Winne ............ BL 203 Biology 13a-Dale ............. BL 203 Chemistry 12a-Finholt ........ CL 208 E. 27a (Thermo)--Lowen ..... CE 108 4:30 P.M. Physics 4a-Way - .............. PL 104 Physics 4a-Byers .............. PL 104 Physics 14a-Byers ............ PL 104 Physics 14a-Rehr ............. PL 104 Physics 14a-Goble .•....•.... ~PL 104 Engr. Economy-Sayre ... , .... CE 1,97 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 9 9:00 A.M.-English lOa-Muir ............. BH 104 10:00 A.M. English lOa-Blodgett ...... BH 300 S Government 12b-Anderson ... BH 102 Physics 3la-Goble ... , ......... PL 216 1:30 P.M. French 2a-Silber ............. LB 2 TUESDAY, NOVEl\ffiER 9 Comp. Literature 20a- Niemeyer ..................... BH 108 11:00 A.M. Sociology 18a-Davis .......... BH 108 E. E. 15-Schlesinger .......... EE 4 Economics 11a-Bishop ....... BH 202 1:30 P.J\1!. Economics 37a-R.otundo ...... BH 205 Economics lib-Bishop ........ BH 202 Philosophy 17a-Stratton ..... BH 210 Governments 12a-Anderson .. BH 101 Governments 12a-Campbell ... BH 101 Mathematics lla-Burkett .... CE 208 Mathematics lla-Farrell ..... CE 208 Chemistry 12a-Sheffer ..... , .. CL 209 Mathematics la-Fox ......... CE 208 Mathematics 2a-Burkett ...... CE 208 Mathematics 12a-Fox ......... CE 208 Mathematics 12b-Farrell ..... CE 208 2:30 P.M. Ma.thematics 1a-Holt ......... CE 208 Mathematics 12a-Orrnsby ...... CE 208 2:30 P.M. History 16a-Bronner ......... BH 201 --------------------------~-- laughry-coached machines. History 32a-Bronner .......... BH 201 s.s. 36a-Bronner ............. BH 201 3.30 P.M. Economics 38a-Whitalter ..... BH 303 Economics 45a-Whitalter ..... BH 303 From Greener Fields By Samuel S. Stratton What doPs the e!Pctiun mean in terms of future natural polici£\s and p10grams? Si.nce Tm'suay political pn•diction of any sort lw:; acqUired such a tenifyin~ taint, that on<' he,itates to hazard a guess on any political subject at a.Jl. Neverthelf'ss. in broad terms. at least, the coUt·sf' of the Second Truman Administration would seem to bP f~rly well defined. The !'IN~tion was, of courst:'. a VICtory for New DPal principlt>R. \Vht>thf't' th<' PrP!'<i- dent rode into offire .an th!' coattails of morP glamol- ous local hopefuls nr vice ver,;a, Harry Truman was personally repsonsible for dramatizing the campaign as a crusade of the \little fpllow\ a~:ainst the \big interests\ of the Eightieth Congress. And it was this alone, very plainly, which made possible the de- feat of so many Republicans running for House and Senate seats. Despite Governor Dewey's efforts to ignore it, the record of the Eightieth Congress in the end proved his undoing too. Primarily President Truman's attack on the Eightieth Congress centered around the Taft-Hartley Act, high p1 i£'es. housin~. extension uf social secu1·ity. and so forth. He got more New Dealish as he went along rather than less-whir:h nuw. indeed. be Henry Wallace's only constructive cont1 ibution to the ca~­ paign. The vehemence of Mr. Truman's attaclt com- mits him <as Mr. Wallace has already somewhat un- graciously pointt:>d out> to press for the enPctment of legislation along this line in the Democratic Eighty-Fit·st Congress. Such things, that Is, as re- peal of the Taft-Hartley Act, passage of the Taft- Ellender-Wagner Housing Bill. extension of social security, possibly a form of limited price control (if, indeed, the reaction of the industrial and financial community to the Truman victory does not in itself result in a minor brake on inflationary pressures), and, somewhat more problematically, the civil rights program. While it is true that both the House and the Senate are to some degree only nominally Demo- cratic-from the New Deal point of ·view-it is rea- sonable to expect that Mr. Truman can look forward to at least some honeymoon with the new Congress during which White House legislation will be re- ceived with more deference than was the case in the Seventy-Ninth Congress. For Mr. Truman is now a political figure in his own right, as well as a prophet of the first magnitude. Already the DixiecJ•ats are reported to be angling to get baclt into the fold-on the theory that their defection was really only a \famiiy squabble\-hough whether this docility will continue when the question of civil rights comes tip is another matter. .As far as foreign policy goes, one can presumably count on a continuation of the present program of firmness against Communism, with Western Euro- pean military pacts as the first agenda item. Mr. Truman's amazing personal victory will be bound to increase his own self-confidence. From now he will. I think, be less inclined to defer to the views of the professional diplomats and the military. On the PaJestine issue, for instance, as well as the general direction of the \cold war,'' we can look for a g1·eater measure of personal co;ntrol by the W~ite .. J:f~~se, reasserting as Walter Lippman has put 1t, mv1l~an and popular control over the conduct of forPlg·n policy.\ .. By Professo1• Harold A. Larrabee Everybcdy seems to be giving Gallup, Roper. Cnssley and Company the large bird over Tuesday's results, and deservedly in some respects. But not in all. For the real question about the polls, which is not answered by \Oh-yeah's\ and shouts of \Crook\ and \Charlatan is this; why were the polls so good in 1940 and 1944, and so bad in 1948? The ·easy answers will not do. This is definitely nut the Literary Digest 1936 debacle all over again. Their error in fav01· of Landon was 16~, and not 3% or 6~(., as thill year. Bl'ief!y, the answer is that the polls were accurate in 1944 because, in three previous Roosevelt elections their managers had found the right fonnula for ~ two-party, strong-leader type of naUonal election, and also for predicting the turn-out, or how many would vote. Now nothing ruins a poll-ta!{er :·s quickly as suc- cess with a formula, because he is usually lathe to change it when the conditions change. The polls fell down hard in 1948 because they tried to adjust their two-party, strong-leader formula to what they thought was a four-party, weak-leader election. They toolt the 1944 division of votes; Roosevelt 53.7·~, Dewey 46.3<;{, and proceeded to divide Roosevelt's 53.7% between Wallace, 4%, Thurmond, 2%, and Dewey <gain) 3'/f, leaving Truman with only 43-44% of the vote, obviously not enough to win. Their biggest mistake was in over-estimating Wallace, who got about 2%, and in believing that Dewey would gain 3% of the former Roosevelt vote Actually Dewey received just about 46% of the vote as he did in 1944. Wallace and Thurmond togethe; garnered about 4%, leaving just about 50% for Tru- man. The polls were, generally speaking, off 3% on Dewey, and 6% on Trurpan, In other words, a four- party, weak-leader election turned out, in national percentages, to be a two-party, strong-leader election after all. What made it so? Largely the credit must go to Truman's tireless and aggressive· one-man cam- paign combined with labor's sfforts an~ some str.ang local candidates. Certainly the p-ons must share some of the blame for luring Governor Dewey into the belief that he could \bacl;: into\ the White House· by intoning lullabies about unity when his opponent was smiting a vulnerable 80th Congress. The now- discredited Republican House leadership misi11ter- . preted the 1946 results as a manciate to un.do the New Deal and to swing the country over to the right. The 'people who toolt the trouble to vote, about half of those eligible, have said \No\ to that ltind of leadership and to leaders who keep silent in apparent defense of that kind of leadership. The Democrats will do well to look carefully at the man- date which they have received, and see that they do not ahuse the power which has come to them so unexpectedly. Biology la-Boyer ............. BL 202 3:30 P.M. Economics 40a-Marz ......... BH 300 Biology lla-Boyer ............ BL 202 Economics 40a-Bennett ...... BH 300 Biology lla-Winne ........ , .. BL 202 Economics 52 -Bwnett ...... BH 300 Biology llb-Boyer ............ BL 202 Government 48a-Anderson ... BH 301 4:30 P.M. History !a-Warren ..... : ..... BH 109 Biology 21a-Terry ............ BL 202 History la-Bristol •.......... BH 109 E.E. 13-Lewis ................ EE 16 History 1a-Morley ........... BH 109 E.E. 13-Goodwill ............. EE 16 L. G. Balfour Co. BADGES STEINS RINGS JEWELRY GIFTS FAVORS STATIONERY PROGRAMS CLUB PINS KEYS MEDALS TROPHIES Wl'ite or Call CARL SORENSES WATERFORD, NEW YORK Telephone 11F13 GOOD FOOD? Try Elmer•s Restaurant 149 Barrett St. Where Union Men Are Always Welcome SERVING UNION'S .MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Near FERRY For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 601 Union Street AUTO SERVICE For the Finest IN MEN'S CLOTH IN<:; CHAS. HOLTZMAN & SON 259 STATE STREET . LANGE & RAPP Plrarmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS- DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 STATE ST.-Since 1893 WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For ·NATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens ~:~nc! the Finest Gifts Corner State and Center Sts. f'FiUD Z• J '~ £ 81 R Tl wax :in US r.efu wel to ; sig'n wan on, exp< kno· frie be· or t tun< Tt t() j cogr aeti• two and tern vota on ri~o a I non kno hOVI jacl tw:il cha ous in vi thrt in 1 era· boy wit pre ,gra se!E terJ mo wel I siv: tw< (le: wit an figl aJo tel loo pa· gle fol da ior as gl'· ge re• pl: B~ ei1 m th of ar til pl g! C\ n< t1: \] sl n: k G

194, .Baar the lucky or for me had to. up this I'd just that's Do you out be• 'Guff's that if he for· a:ny- u shouid kid off, was but 110 to the Guffer Lis- they •and Tut just dy- aga:in, won't he tomor- you this tomor- Guff's . . . . PL 104 ... PL 104 ... PL 104 ... PL 104 .... PL 104 ... CE 1.!)7 BH 104 300 S BH 102 ... PL 216 .... BH 108 ... EE 4 ... BH 205 ... BH 210 .. CL 209 ... CE 208 CE 208 ... CE 208 CE 208 CE 208 ... BH 303 ... BH 303 BL 202 BL 202 . , .. BL 202 .... BL 202 BH 109 BH 109 BH 109 and FOR NG lsDS f'FiUDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1948 . - ·- ~-~-. Zopf Views J·azzist's Strange Reactions The .Best in Jazz Music 3 Jazz Still Rocks Them While Squares Sock 'Em PROM MEANS MORE THAN JUST A WEEKEND IT so .:.- MEANS THE BEST OF EVERYTHING • .. NATURALLY The Place To VAN TAP GO IS The CURLER ROOM

1. i· '!!Iii ' '~ I I '! .4 High as fo Mee·t Carnet Cridders, Middlebury After Sta~kes Prepare Williams, 19-7 on C.ridiron·, 2.4-3 3 Harrie;rs • Trouncl·n~g. 1.rack ---- ·- --- --·----- Middlebury Clash Could Ma-ke Grid History at Union <Continued from Page 1) losses in the series. Four of the contests were deadlocked. The last Garnet win against the Blue and \Vhite was in 1942 by a 14-13 score. Panthe1· Ba('k Injurt>d A factor which may hurt the Panthers somewhat' is that Paul Farrell, the star Middlebury scat- hac!{, was injured two weeks ago I and may be out of the lineup to- morrow. ThiB is information from · the enemy camp, however. and 1 Union Coach John ::\1f'Laughry sus- · pects that Farrell may see action. I Farrell has !wen ont' of the Pan-\ !her l'ogs all ~l'ason. and is ont• l'f' tht· k··y nlt·n tn the 1 unning dnd pne\ing attaclc However, C\Tiddle- hury ha\ a hig lin<', nnd pknty of ~'\\\!'\'<' \I r<'n gt h P:..nt h<>t' C'o-C'n p- In in .John rnrhbiPrn. t• 1R;\ Jh. full- I hadt :t.nd tlneP IPtt<'r man. will \till be tlwre to give' the Dutchmen plenty of trouble, as will Wendell Forh<\'~. a triple thn,at halfback Forbes and Farrell are known as the \touchdown twins\ of Middle- bury. The Panthers season record shows that they have steam-roll- ered all opposition, with an out- standing upset over strong Trinity <24-13) as the highlight. Other wins were over Hobart <31-13), Bates (20-7), Hamill:on <13-0), Coast Guard <32-0), and last week Nor- wich < 40-0). The only common op- ponent played has been Hobart, which Union routed by · 25-0. Al- though this shows the Garnet as a theoretical 6 point favorite, it means little as the Middlebury game with Hobart with the season opener. The man that is expected to help considerably in bottling up Middle- bury's offense tomorrow is big Ken Whalen, Union's captain and cen- ter, who has been the guiding spirit of the hard charging line all sea-. son. The Union forward wall has flhown itself to be made of stone, and high scoring Middlebury may be considerably surprised tomorrow by its effectiveness. Coach Mc- Laughry is of the opinion that. although the PanthPrs have one of th0 ~trungt..·~t ::;nui11 t..'ullc~e lt>alll:::i in the Ea~t. the Union squad has a very gnod chance of handing them a setback. All of the Garnet players except rPserve guard Burt Napear. who is nursing an inju!'Pd knee, will be ready for aC'tion to- morrow. STARTING LINE-UPS l~:I'ION JIHIDI.EHrR\\ Coppola L E l\a~:-;imatls :\-Iartln L T Hamre R~affer Ln. Connors \\hal en C. CaewPII Ten Eyrk RG. Haven Shet_\win H T Thompson Busmo R K :\Ieeker :,;;traus\ or l,l R Sporborg Fleteher Best Warte Lundstrom LB. RH. F. B. FOR ALL YOUR Farrell or Hughes Forbes Corbisiero GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 79JJ ~- R1 f4~0\\~ {)\\Q\)l~AYST.JlWIURS II . 166 Jay Street II ------- Whalen Sparks tOOSE ENDS Garnet Defense . j -by .If Ketzmen Top Panthers T.hey Are Undefeated 'Aga inst the Purple t!==- Herb Saxe::::::::::=.! Too much can't be said. in sup- . Union College's football port of the Garnet as they go out · squad prepared itself for to .. tomorrow afternoon, in what will morrow's .Middlebury contest be the toughest game on the '48 h dl' a Garnet schedule. It has been a by thoroughly man an'. mg . great many years since the Dutch- much heavier \Villiams team men have fielded such a powerful last Sa:turday afternoon. The and speecl,y football squad; but it Dutchmen ended the game, has been an equal number of thel ·r- sixth, on the lofty end years since the Garnet squad has faced such a potent rival as Mid- of a 19-7 score, to capture die bury. Chi wing, scram b 1 in g their third consecutive win Panthers aga·inst a determined and their fifth of the '48 band of Dutchmen should give the ·L. to R. Ready to run circles around the Middlebw·y Panthers we find the following Dutchmen: Abe Lakshin, Mac McCoun, Don Wright, Bob Garlock, Capt. Ray Bellanger, Newt Culver, Bob Stei- gert and Don BI·ightman. Here is one of the fastest cross-country squaus in the histol'Y of the sport at Union. season. Garnet Line Unstopable Once again the rorwai·d wall turned in u stellar pHformance, showing that the r:arnet li~H' · ;,trength displayed in thP RPI trlt was not accidentaL The Dutch- men held the EphmPn to n minus one yard nd \gain' 'in the entire first ha !f. But while the Garnet forwards were stalemating the Purple at- tack their cohorts in the backfield, puttlng on an outstanding Funning attack, pushed across touchdowns in the first, second, and fourth Middlebury Fell Prey to Ephmen, H~rriers Sboadd Win periods.Whalen the \Rock\ The high flying Dutchman harriers, stimulated by a record smashing 24-33 win over Ken Whalen, playing one of 'the the strong Ephmen of Williaws College last weekend, will go all out to skin the Middle- best games in his entire Union ca- p• h 'th f' t • ht • t · t · reer, seemed to be the fifth man bury College Panther and nnish out t e season WI · 1ve s rarg VlC or1es omorrow in the Williams backfield. His tre- afternoon as the two teams clash over the 4.7 mile home course. The season finale is mendous power at center seemed scheduled to end during the half of the football game. to dissolve the Purple forward wall, Heralded by Coach Bill Ketz as®•~---------------,,.---------------- as the \Rock\ broke through again the fastest team that he has ever Field, Belanger displayed a beauti- Ready to finish up the dual meet-. and again to break up the Williams coached at Union College, the \hill ful finishing drive, passing Kelton ings tomorrow will be Belanger, att 1 ack befo.re it couhl~ be sta~tfied. t and beating him out by about 20 Garloclt, Wright, Newt Culver, Abe n additiOn to IS magm cen and dalers,\ Jed by fleet-footed yards. Lakshin, Fred Steigert, Townsend job on the defense, it was the edu- Captain Ray Belanger, Bob Gar- The meet tomorrow is expected McCoun, and Don Brightman, who cated Whalen toe that kept the lock and Don Wright, shattered an to be a fast race also, as Williams have been responsible for one of Ephmen deep in their own terri- only managed to beat Middlebury the best balanced running squads tory, with five coffin corner punts all time record for speed last Sat- th f b d 'th' by one point earlier in the season. in the East. at went out o oun s Wl m urday in their fast and impressive Middlebury Captain Jim Newman Williams Summary the twenty yard stripe, the best win over Williams. With Belanger finished 6 second behind Kelton in 1. Belanger u 26:17 three punts going out on· the one, coming within two seconds of the this race, so Belanger should be in 2. Kelton W 26:20 three, and eight yard lines. course record. it was the first ·time for another hard race. 3. Ga!'lock U 26:23 · Garnet OpPns Fast that three L'nion runners had ever The cross country squad defeat- 4. Delaney W 26:47 The Dutchmen marched 60 yards ed Mohawk in the last meet of last 5. Wright U 26:53 ln twelve plays for their first tally, navigated the course under 27 year, and if you add to that the 6. Cook \V 26:57 Hal Lundstrom twisting and buck- minutes in the same race. Since track record of six straight vic- 7. Culver U 27:20 ing his way through the Williams 1933. when the present course was tories and the present four straight I 8. Lakshin U 27:21 secondary for the last 21 yards and cross country ~\ins, it means that 9. Derwin W 28:22 paydirt on a fourth down plunge first used, only four men had. pre- the runners at the college have \10. Steigert U 28:36 lhrouhg the center of the line. AI \'i<•ll'ly <'rlipsrrl thr> 27 mmutP gone undefeated in eleven straight 11. C\1ncCoun P 29·12 \\'::..de's wnvc1 sion wus golden and mark. Thf>se are Hawkes <26:15>.! contests. l12. Hutton W 29:32 (Continued on Page 5) Highland 126 191, Santora <26:29>.! and Nest!!' • 26·34 l. Garnet rooters one of the great- est and most ·ex- citing clashes in Union history. We all know that the Dutch- men will go into .that game as un- d e r d o g s, that they will be fac- ing an undefeat- ed Panther squad who will be out to chalk up another victory. At the !jame time we know that the Dutchmen showed up as a powerful team, thoroughly mauling a luckless Wil- liams squad, that ·should have, from all statistical indications, given the Dutchmen \heap big · trouble.\ Something went wrong with those statistics and the rampaging Dutch- men made the unhappy Ephmen look as though they only had half a team on the field. The panzer- like thrusts of the Garnet left the larger, heavier Willimns. squad rocking on its heels. Don't worry, we've got ·a real TEAM, and they'll be in there fighting tomor- row. But the team is only a part of Union. You, the rooters, constitute the other part of that team. The fact that we are playing the Pan- thers, at Schenectaedy can be a wonderful break or it can be the worst thing that could ha-ppen. Just which way this may be interpreted rests entirely in the hands of the Union grandstand tomorrow. Brother, if you clowns can't cheer any louder than you did last Saturday, the game might as well (Continued on Page 5l Belanger's time for the race Sat- urday was 26:17. Garlock ran the distance in 26:23, and Wright fin- ished in 26:53. Time Arrow ties can take it! From the beginning. the Williams race developed into a battle be. tween Belange!' and Bill Kelton. the Williams runner who had broken his own course record the week before. A mile from home Kelton led Belanger by ten yards, and both men '~}'ere running fast enough to break the course record. Entering the gate to Alexander Ball's Shoe Cleaners and Dyen Inc. Bebullclens 633 State St. 204 Union St. PHONE 6-3456 Call Ball and Ball Will Call to Re-Tie? See our new col· lection of Arrow col· lege ties- knits,. bows, foulards, silk repps and wools. Especially made for college men. EVEN IN LEAP YEAR! ~ SILK REPP STRIPES FOULARDS l<NITS BOWS THE. FINEST IN RECORDED MUSIC R. C. A. Victor Columbia ARROW TIES $1 to $2.50 $1 to $2.50 Decca Capitol Featuring The NEW LONG PLAYING COLUMBIA RECORDINGS Roberts Piano Company 203 State Street Corner Ferry Street NUSBAUM'S '------FOR ARROW TIES -----../ YES SIR! One d goo reason college men like Arrow ties is the pure wool resilient lining that d' . 1scourages wrmkles. When you need a few new b • favorite Arrow dealer for the obwst obr fo~r-•~-hands, see your es uys. 1n .t 1 es! t!RROW SHIRTS and TIE UNDERWEAR • HANDI<ERCHIEFS S • SPORTS SHIRTS • F.RID - .E ----· Sah bury' eolleg- thers thems small coura1 game Iiams. yarda to th Union will :t ing li bacon mone~ Da' quart UJ1W:r tion. hand I has th 1'( t 0 u passe this! a na York a gr Colu1 mil.r ('46) was: the squa• tered sity '~7 I passe since Sigm Ful old, I hails is a wher and J men wheu reneE Satu1 smas yard: for l Ha team Virg· is a· sioru theil in tl the char yard This out are fens tren club the the tau~ hefll Tl the and' ed : rece had add· Dar The day Mel in : sec< met has WOl and pre gov has ski fell

5, 1Y48 rs ilig. ck . d· in sup- ey go aut what will ·n the· '48 ' been -a he Dutch- powerful Ld; but it Imber of >quad has .I as Mid- mbling etermined 1 give the the flame Dutchmen :ful team, :kless Wil- ilave, from given the ·trouble.\ with those ingDutch- r Ephmen ~ had half 1e panzer- et left the ns squad m't ·worry, !lAM, and ing tamar- a part of constitute team. The ; the Pan- can be a ~an be the rppen .. rust interpreted nds of the ~row. wns can't au did last rht as well ge 5) itl ties is ~s. e your • HIRTS F.RIDAY, N'QVEMD.ER s·, 1948 5 Booters Face· RPI; F.rosh C·ridders at Williams ----~~----~------~--------~ ~·----~--~--------------~----~ COR:E&OAR by ·,M,arked· .lm.p·roveme~nt of Socceri:tes· is E:ncouraging Saturday's battle against MiddJe- bur:y will loom as the biggest small college garp:e in the East. The Pan- thers need Saturday~s win to insure themselves a ]lid to one ()f the small college bowl games. .An en- couraging note . for the coming game is last Vl'eek's win over Wil~ Iiams. The Ephmen gained. a -1 yardage in the .fiv~St half, thanks ta the splendic]. line play of the Union forward wall. Middlebury will have to stop our hard charg- ing line before they can carry ti;Ie bacon pack to Middlebury, Vt. My money goes on Union. Dave Strauss, 20 yeail.' old, 5' 11\ qu:arterb~k, is the ·brains behind Unton's· fast stepping \T\ forma- tion. Along with his .great ball handling, D ave has managed to throw eight touchdown passes (48 points) this season. He is a native of New Y o1·k dity and is a gra·d u ate of Columbia GI1tm- mll.r Prep School ('46) wher·e he .. was a member of ' the football: squad. Dave en- tel·ed Union in '116 and played var- sity bail that season. During the '47 RPI battle, he threw 2 T.D. passes and has been a regular ever since. He is a member of Phi Sigma. i:>_elta ·fraternity. *\ * * By Graham Martin Saturday, November 6, will see yet another visit of RPI men to Union College campus; the place Graduate Council Field, the visitors: .;t. soccer team, and the time: 2:00p.m. Making predictions is hardly in~~~~----~-----~---~-­ fashion these days and any way at the best is a risky business. Never- Williams Whipped theless, I venture to say that re- gardless of the winner, the Garnet (Continued from Page 4) team win: give 'their opponents a the Garnet took a first period 7-0 good gan1e. The Tvoy team is far · lea1i .. alid away the best we have Ip.et yet and their win over us of '5 to 0 a In the second stanza it was the few weeks ago was well merited.· Garnet sophomores who: put the Since then, however, the situation Ephmen to shame. George J.Y.[orrow has changed as .. the following re• and Dick Spidel grabbed off big v·iew indicates: g!).ins to move the ball down to the The first RPI game as far as Williams 18. From the 18 it was Union was· concern-ed consisted of. Scotty Jackson going all the way, nothing but dogged· defense; any· around end, for the second Garnet goal against the Cherry and White tally. The conversion attempt was would have been a pure fluke. Ten unsuccessful. days later, against Syracuse, de'- The final Garnet score came in spite the excellent off.ensive play ·the last frame on a pass. Union which Union had deveioped, the passing throughout the greater dismal fack .of .shots at goal al- part of the afternoon showed up lowed the Orangemen to win de- poorly,; but it was a Dave Straus' J:!ervedly at 4 to l,. The Garnet for-. heave to en!i Armond .Bus1no that wards too must have reacl)ed the · accounted for the last Union tally. same conclusion a.ild further de-. Once again, the conversion was no cided to do something about it, good. since on Tuesday we drew. 3 to 3 with a Schenectady first division With the home club ahead, 19-0, team-no ;mean fea.t I might add. in the final period, the Ephmen, So there it is. In the six. weeks sparked by Stu Duffield, marched of term that have elapsed, another down to the Union 3, through the varsity team has come into being. ranks of the Garnet subs. .Sending From the initial collection of in- in his first string to take over in dividuals who played against Wil- this precarious situation, Coach Hams' has grown a group who ~cLaughry was more than satis- function together as· a unit; then, tied to see the forwar:d wall turn the played at Soccer;, now, they the invaders back four successive play Soccer. times. On the fourth try the over- Come and watch them tomorrow, anxious Dutchmen were penalized. It's -a good game Soccer, quite as Wtih the ball on the one yard line exciting as football; I don't. think , the Ephinen had four more at- yo~;~'ll be bored, and it will help us tempts to score. Capitalizing on the Fullback Hal Lundstrom, 24 year old, 5' 10\ 185 pound line crusher, hails from Somerville, Mass., and is a graduate of Somerville High where he p·articipated in football and hocl(ey. Hal started the Dutch- men off on their winning ways when he scored a~inst St. Law- rence on a 47 yard gallop. Last Saturday. ·against Williams, he smashed througl) center for 19 yards to register the initial T.D. for Union. • quite •a bit. penalty, the Ephmen scored on a ;Next game November 13th, is 5 yard pass. Final score: Union Hal, a member of the '47 hockey team, is married to the former Virginia Ja{:kson of Somerville. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta. against Champlain at home. ·19, Williams 7. vides the men ·and wo:tllen qf the college top flight instruction in skiing. . . . A reliable source re- ports that swimming coach Ray Mullane was seen leaving the col- lege libr!J.rY with a book tucked under his arm entitled \Swim- ming\. All Union sWimming· op- ponents take heed! . . . Coach MoLaughry rates Marion Motley and Otto Graham of the Cleveland Browns as the best runner and FERRo·s- RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6.9554 •• 1115 IARRETT ·STREET The New York Giants Profes- passer, respectively, in pro ball sional football team have allowed today. . . . John Corbisiero, star their opponents to glloin 1200 yards right halfback on the Middlebury in tluee gam~s this season. During eleven, scored two. T.D.'s against the 1940 season, ·Steve Owen's · Dartmouth in Fen way P-ark in 1944 charges held its opponents to 1400 lw~h~ll~e~p~la5y~i~n~g~f~o~r~N~o~tr~e~· ~D~a~m~e~. =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ yards for the complete schedule. 1 j This comparison in yardage brings out tlie point that the p1•o ranks are stressing less and less on de- fense and more on offense. This trend is true of nearly all i;h.e ball elub of the Pl'O leagues. Most of the trouble lies in the fact. that the big college stars have not been taught how to tackle and block before they ente1• the pro ranks. * \' * Odds and Ends The Williams football team was the heaviest squad to play on Alex- ander Field so far this season . . . . Rochester University announc- ed a 15 game basketball schedule recently. Last year's Rivermen five had a mediocre season. New teams added this season ate Mississippi, Dartmouth, •and liafayette. . . ·· .. The best Garnet receiver last Satur- day against Williams was Coach McLaug-hcy. \Mac\ c'll.tight '3: punt in front of. the bench dtil'ing the second half. • , , AI Marton, a meml>e~ of the Union soccer team, , has been· ill for several weeks. He Would certainly appreciate cards and visitors, See Dr . .A,rony for his present address. . . . The student government of Vermont University has approved ·aid for· an i:ncreased ski recreational program fOr their fellow students. TJ:J.e program pro- GUERRA'S PHARMACY Fountain Prescriptions s~.,~nd.ries 600 Union St. Cor. Barrott St. SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY STRE,.T GAZETTE PRES.S Printers ,;, ........ \\' *\\- \\\ CORNER Dance at STAG Trinity M. E. ~hurch Cor. Lark & lancaster St. ALBANY, N.Y. 8:30,......11 :30 Every Sat. Mal Pappin\s Orchestra 3 Blo.cks from Lash St. I .................. Bus Stop Admission SOc Fresh Runners P:urple B:attle Will Ma.ke Take 24-30 Win To·ugh Finale fo.r Yea:rlings Not to be outdone by the varsity Coach Pete Nistad's freshmen gridders will face power- squad, Union College's JV harriers ful Williams College tomorrow at Williamstown, Mass., in trounced the little harriers from the finale of the season. The frosh have lost one and tied Williams College last Saturday afternoon, by a 24-30 score. another in their previous two outings. Although it was Haskell of Wi!- ~ The Ephman, who in recent .Iiams out in front a·ll the way to 1 e d ·years have produced very strong come in first for the individuai !!.iOOSe lliioft · S • • • honors with a time of 16:03 for the freshmen squads, a.re favored to three mile course, the Garnet run- <Continued from Page 4 > topple the Dutchmen tomorrow, A ners drove hard all the way to fin- be played in East Oshkosh, for all victory for the Nistadmen would ish up in second, third, fourth, the good it will do our gridders. salvage an otherwise mediocre sea- sixth and nin:th places to clinch Let 'em hear those Garnet .cheers the meet. It was Nirdlinger, Mac- up in Middlebury tomorrow. son. Cormick, -Richards, Wright, Cohn If the Union rooters bad done The Garnet is in good physical and Zel!' finishing in that order for . their .part as well as the team they shape for the contest. The only the Dutchmen. were supposed to be cheering last loss this season has been Bud This evened things up for the Saturday, the noise would have Franklin, an end who was injured junior runners, who were defeated, ·been deafening. As it actually was, in the opener against Morrisville 22\33; by RPI, in their opener on one could have heard the proverbial Aggies. It was Franklin who October 16. pin drop at points during the blocked an Aggie kick that pro- Tomorrow afternoon the little game, the rest of the time the duced Union's lone tally in a 7-2 harriers will tangle with Middle-, Union fans sounded 'like a group loss. bury. of old ladies at a sewing bee. Union's main threats offensively It is an interesting sidelight to are hard driving halfback Randy Previews and see to just what lengths Duke Nel- Orham and Rube Johnson, speedy son, the Middlebury mentor, will go Tom Odell and quarterback Bill to see his charges win. The es-, Braunsdorff, who will handle most teemed Mr. Nelson called Union of the passing. Reviews to find out the exact size of the Up front the Dutchmen are bol- bal! used by the Dutchmen. It stered by tackle \Red\ Grabsky seems he did not ·want to waste ail and end Jim Salerno. week teaching his charges how to LAST WEEK Hammon .... IS Mass. U, .... 33 Middlebury .. 40 Rocltester , . , 14 St. Lawrence 6 Union ....... 19 llobart 0 Vermont .... o :S onvich . . . . 0 ltPI ......... 7 Alfred , , .... 0 \'illiams o TIDS WEEK Clarkstm at RPI Hamilton at Earlham 1\llddlelmry at Union Rochester at Vermont play football with the wrong sized balL I suggest that we send along, with the exact dimensions of the ball, as computed by our engineers, a sample of the soil on Alexander Field. This might aid the Panthers in choosing the correct color uni- forms. But perhaps I'm being pica-· yune??? And in a similar vein, it would seem that the local newspapers think there is only one team play- ''1:1\ arkerJ. · worldS most wanted pen W ith leaders in government and business, the arts and professions-Parker \51\ is the preferred writing instrument. Actually, 83 sur- veys in 34 countries show Parker to be the w6rld's most-wanted pen. Here is a pen of flawless beauty and balance. Precision-made- throughout. The 51's exclusive alloy point starts instantly-paces your swiftest thot1ghts with ease. What's more, you never need a blotter. For the \51\ writes dry with new Superchrome, the ink created for this pen alone. See the famous \51\ at your Parker dealer's today. Choice of colors, custom points. Pens, including the new demi-size, $12.50 and up. Sets, $18.75 to $80.00. The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis., U.S.A.; Toronto, Can. • • •• •• •• week, Middlebury. I believe the Dutchmen will disprove this fallacy. And it's up to us to see that the gridders get the right kind of .support. No one is going to make you get out and support the team. No one should have to. If you don't feel that the Dutchmen are deserving of your support, stay home! We don't want any dead wood. IN THE HAND OF DR. GUILLERMO BELT-Dr. Belt is Cuba's Ambassador to the United States and Iter permanent fhzited Nations delegate. Like many oilter representatives, lze used a Parker \51\ to sign the new Inter-American Defense Tl'eaty. By this pact the 21 Amel'ican Republics pledge themselves to mutual defense in case of attack. $25 CASH GIVEN AWAY-for interest- ing, true stories about the Pru·ker \51\ Pen. Base it on your own experi- ence-or relate the experience of some friend. $25.00 for each story used. Just report the facts. Stories are iudged on facts alone. All letters become our property-cannot be r. a\ turned. Address: The Parker Pen ComP!IDY, Dept. S-47 ,Janesville,Wis. Oo))f. 1Dl8 bY Tho Pa.rlror Pon Company

;:.!1!1 1 ::. .. ·: .I:! :.: i ! 1 ~ ' q .! 6 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1948 Drag D·irec.tory ·Shows Phi Delta Theta ~--·----·-:-----------~------·---;-----~- Union PR·OMinent Figures Natalie Davenport, Accord, NY; Eleanore Reuter, Irvington, NJ; Jane Garlick, Dolgeville, NY; Donna King, Moha'wlt, NY; Kay Cox, Schenectady; Martha Quay, Schenectady; Janet Luke, Fre- donia, NY; Audrey Webfiter, Glov- E>rsviHe, NY; Holly 'l'eahan, Sche- nectady; Florence Giblin, West- mm·y, R.T; Mnry C'hrk, ~farris­ town, NJ; Ann Ferguson, Hast- ings, NY. Troy, NY: .loan Wright, Skidmore; heit, Kenmore, NY; Joan Lenning, Nachison, Staten Is.; Dona Kimel- son, Slddmore College; Bobbie Al- sedd Sage College; Lhoda Robell, Martha Powell, Bennington Col- Bloom;fleld, N.T; Myrna Benson, beaf, Castleton-on-Hudson, NY;. phabet, Saratoga; Anne Silverman, Dpsa;]a College, East Orange, NJ. lege; Ann Smith, Convent of New Skidmore College, Esther Mueller, Evelyn Tower, Rt\SSell Sage; .Selma Syracuse Vnlv.; Joy Fellerman, B E. ta u \} Rochelle; Betty Lesser, Johns- Irvington, NJ.; Janet Fenwick, Nadel, Albany State; Laura Berger, Russell Sage, P.risciUa Mattus, eta ... ·psi 0fi town; Janice Helme, U.V.M., Bur- Poughkeepsie, NY. Chaperons for Albany State; Sara Lee R,aven, Schenectady; Wendy Rosen, Sche•· . Br denber S acuse· lington, Vt.; Grace Malloy, Albany, the weekend will be Mr. aiJ,d ·Mrs •. Rochester, NY; Diana Garlock, Os- neotady; Mildred Koclrer, Eussel J Joa~ ~e Oneonf~ Nf. Janet NY; Joan Bradish, Schenectady; Gilvert Adams of Elsmere, Y and wego NY· Myrda Glagovsky, Sage College; Lynn Goldberg, une ay;~.d C ii ' Janet Spurch. Schenectadv: Marv Mrs. C. H. Brown of Alhany, NY. Eme 1 :son College; Muriel Appel- HuntPr CollPgP; Judith O:<blood, Gregol'y, 1 more 0 ege. - Jane Pickett, Passaic, NJ; Nancy baum, Rochester, NY; Evelyn Pin-~ Kaki Fenster and Rhoda Re1ber of I Ackerman, Greensburg, Pa.; Betty Chi\ PSI• kenfeld, Brooklyn, NY; Jackie Albany; U1·sula Neuhaus, Al~a;1Y Ann \\'lic;!1t, \Vllnoht:\t\t, Ma::;:;.; . ca.Jan, :::lchenectacty; Ltta Lmzm,, :::>tate Teacher~; Ru::Jalyn I.,.lcm, Jazz Appreciation Society of Schenectady Invites You to A Roberta Owen, Schenectady; Page Jinks Moores, Bellmore, NY;· Vassar College; Janice Schosberg, Schenectady; BaJ'bara Jacobs, Rus- Stevens, Schenectady. Bette B1·ennan, Glendale, L.I.; Bev- Russell Sage; Joane Jage, Skid-:--------------- Beta Theta Pi Catherine Fox, Albany, NY; Eli- nor Strange, Terry Temple, Ossin- mg, NY; Betty Neracker, Roches- ter, NY; Bonnie Veness, Boston, Mass.; Ann Leete, White Plains, NY; Ingrid Nelson, NYC; Helen Barlow, Wuteruury, Conn.; Arlene Renko, Scotia, NY; Tl•rry O'Brien, East Hartford, Conn.; Betsy Bell, Skidmore College; Claire Koeditz, East Patterson, NJ; Ann Rohr- bach, Russell Sage; Lorna Mac- Queen, Hamilton. NY; Ann Nar- dini. Schenectady; Janet Brown, Hartford, Conn.; Rosemary Fer- raro, Pottsdam STC; Mary Law- rence, Schenectady. Alpha Delta Phi Delta Chi Carolyn Lisner, West New York, NJ; Ann Onorado, Schenectady; Betty Kozlowslti, St. JohnsviUe, NY; Joanne Dixon, Tenafly, NJ; Mary Louise Work, Skidmore; Con- stance Becher, Skidmore; Janet Landau, Skidmore; Betty Alder- man, SkidmorE:'; Alice Newman, Skidmore; Polly Smith, Staten Is- land, NY; Barbara A. Erikson, Sco- tia, NY; ~frs. Robert Simpson, Schenectady; Mrs. Douglas Sl·inger- land, Schenectady. Sigma Phi Ann Graham, Albany, NY; Hooty Gagan, TI'Oy, NY; Pat Hanes, Buf- falo, NY; Marylyn Taylor, Maple- wood, NJ: Dorothy Hoaelker, Sch-e- nectady; Elizabeth Jane Gibby, Lois Furcht, Pleasantville, NY; Goucher College, Sally Ann \Vern- Jean Lyons, Skidmot·e; Paul-etta ple, Schenectady;· Nancy G. Hart- Menk, South Orange, NJ; Shirley· man, Schenectady; Jeanine Small- Stettner, Rochestet·, NY; Marilyn dan, Sltidmore; Alison S. Rood, Suttler, Elmira, NY; Virginia Sher- Bl'iarcltff, NY; Ann Lydgatc, Smith man, Demarest, NJ; JoAnn Hurd, College; Ruth Delafield, Hewlett, Skidmore; Lyn Coughlin, Skid- NY; Constance Rothery, Spring- more; Pat Gardner, Saugerties field, ~lass.; Joan Kneuser, Beau- NY; Peggy Ann Stearns, Middle- rhille; Patricia Pollock, Vassar; bury, Vt.; Lucy Tumpline, Tama- Bobby Brigham. Skidmore; Betty gami, Ont.; Sally Dougherty, Sche- Bates, Skidmore; Nancy Sweeny, nectady; Pat Patton, Medina, Ohio; White Plains, NY; C'arolyn Pea- Virginia Anderson, Scan;dale, NY i body, Skidmore. Lory Rogers, Rochcstel', NY; Fran Sowles, Boston, Mass.; Sue Roth, Schenectady, NY; Gayle Richard- son, Skidmore; Betty Saxe, Sche- nectady; Shirley Spear and Thelma Nestle, Schenectady; Sue Sweet, Buffalo, NY; Frances Deare, Ch3.p- paque, NY; Monie Freeman, ~lt. Holyoke, ~:lass.; Barba1·a Rappold, Schenectady. Theta Delta Chi Margaret Bullwinkle, Rkidmore College; Jean Van Etten. Delmar. NY; Jeanne Hecker, Rochester·, NY; Rosemary Quilty, Auburndale, Mass.; Libra Mango, Schenectady; Catherine Wukman, Akron, NY; Mary Brott, Poughltcepsie, NY; Marilyn Janda, Elmira College. Delta Upsilon Marja-Lou Langemeier, Brook- lyn, NY; Frances Gerhaeusser, Schenectady; Patty Rowe. Amstl'r- darn; Janet Pangburn, Valley Falls; Dorothea Ehle, Gloversville; Norma Dean, Brooklyn; Irene Mitschang. Buffalo: fielen Roy, St. Lawrence Univ; Virginia Syper, Amsterdam; Lenore Corcoran, Am- sterdam; Libby Cardnci, Skidmore; Barbara Gillette, Oneonta; Martha Coady, Univ. of Mass.; Rosemary Quilty, Auburndale, Mass.; Shirley Hager, Wash. DC; Lorraine Ordon. Schenectady; Jean Jackson, Sche- nectady; Betty Rogers, Syracuse Univ.; Jeanette Basltous, Schenec- tady; Connie Cruger, Wellesley College; Paula Robertson, Smith College; Dawine Rosenbury, Secau- cus, NJ; Louise Corwin, Wellesley College; Lot·ene Seeber, Port Wash- ington, L.L Chaperones ·-Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Benjamin and Mr. and Mrs. John Pel!Pttiet· of AI· bany. Phi Gamma Delta Jackie Post, Skidmore; LonisP Williamson, Ottawa. Ont.; :\larilyn Cross, Green )it. Jr. Cullt•ge; E\'e Marie Bourquin, Skidmore; Gtayce Smethurst, So. Orange, NJ; Fay West, Bennington College; Isabel Tanner, \Veils Coll<'ge; Bohhie Independents Bobbie Orick, Schenectady: Joan Bredenbet·g, Syracuse University; Judith Ann Mitchell, Hull, Mass.: Leona ZJCntara, Little Falls. NY; VirginiA. Cody, Hochester, NY; Carol Huu,;ton. Schenectady; Mat·i- lyn Biems, Skidmore; Gertrude Arna, Claudette Karlstrom, Ken- more, NY; Anne Hirsch, Syracuse Unin·rsity; Lynn Goldberg, Brook- lyn. NY; Bessie Zilch, Painted Post, NY: Renee Carol, Swarth- more; Rita Theresa Wall, Albany, NY; Alberta Burnside, Carth!l.ge, NY; Dorothy Richards, Skidmore; Virginia Shoemaker, New Hartford. NY; Agnes Snow, East Linden, NY; Jeanne Seh, Great Neck, NY; ,vrarilyn Sutter, Elmira, NY; Caro- lyn Kuntz, Secaucus. NJ; Dolores Falls, Troy, NY; Barbara Trotter, Troy, NY; Maureen Seabright. Sco- tia. NY; Peggy Killion, Schenec- tady. Psi Upsilon Barbara Green. Philadelphia; QueE:'l1i£> Woodland. Rye, NY; Do- lores Robert, St. RoRP. Alhanv: Joan Brown, Great Neck, LI; Jeai-t- nie du Charme, Oneida. NY; Doris Bibby, Brandt Lake, NY; Joyce \Vatkins, Birmingham, Mich.; Mrs. Donald Holmes, Bloomfield, NJ; Barbara . Turner, Schenectady; Alice Daly, Sue Zinzer. Sigma Chi Joan Lee, Rcotia. NJ; Ellif' Marks, Rochester, NY; Gail von Dorstel, Russell Sage; Paula V. Lukacik. Newburgh; Barbara Ann Heizer, Skidmorf'; Claudette Karl- strom, Shidmm·e; Futricia Caulkins. Skidmore: Barbara Hoene, Vassar; Harbat a Groot, the South; Mary Dicltinson, Skidmore; Mary Vos- hurgh, GrN•n :\Iountain: Millie \Vacs, Fort Dlx: Doris Johnson, Closter. N.J; MatT JanP C'hryRier, SchenPctady: Can ie Fa pier, Vas- ~'n; Lu .. y Dow!<'~. Va,;sar; !Tf'len :\fahi<-, i'lddmor·e. Kappa Sigma Male, Russell Sngt>; J<'nn Hnight, Dot·othy M<'t i,;h, Ram toga Baldwin, NY; Be\'erly Personeus, SpringH: :I.Iiliam Quinlan, Albany; Suffern, NY; Gloria Pet'soneus, Suf- :I.:Iarjorie Passon, Schenectady; fern, NY; Carolyn Dobbins, Skid- Shirley Htew•ns, Scotia; Monica more; Maltha Jane Dunkel, Skid- Zacl;, Amstctdam; :I.Taty Hough, more; Donna Barnes. Skidmore; Jame~town; Grace Anker. Schenec- Betty Kunker, Albany, NY; Mali- tauy; £-ILiriel Rodman, St. Albans, lyn Sclmeidct, \\'hite Plains; Bar· =\Y; Ju,m Galerneau, Schenectady; bara Bighan, \Valtham, ~lass.; Ca1ulinc Du.)cc, Aluany; Mrs. Dean Dorothy ::leuald, Ptcshytctian )lcdi- J. SuuaJU, Hivcr Forest, Illinois; cal Centel', NY; Vale lie Smith, 1 Cat my RiJ.>a, IIulyukc, ;Mass.; Vit'- Lyrtbrouk, ::\\Y; Catolyn Tuu>el, I ginia Shoemaker, New Ha1tford, v..·hite Plains, NY; Connie :O.Iat tin, I ;\;Y, Syracuse, NY; \Vanda King, Plans- 1 1Jurg, .:--:Y; .Ann Pouaich., SLhLIH~- 1 tady; Sue Russell, Slddmote; 1 Trudy Ten Eyck, Wellesley Col· lege. Delta Phi 1\appa Alpha .:\1artha .Middlemiss, Millbrook, NY; Joan Barnard, Buffalo, NY; Irene Lcib, West Orange, NJ; Dolly Maim. Skidmore College; .fPannP Wy!lif', East Orange, NJ; EstPlle Falco, NY('; Hall'iPf :\ltl· <'arol .J\~:I.-. :-lo. Orang<', NJ: Mar- ler. Middlebury; Kathl<'en Fost<'r, · JOI'I<' Ltthl!ow, Morristown. NJ; Springfield Garden, NY; Betty Me·- ,\nn Hut chards, Rockville Centt·e, Cann, Jamaica, ;\;Y; ~larjot ic> :-<Y; .\u<lt··~· Pat!l·r~on, H .. mp\tl'ad Christensen, Schenectady; Betty I NY; Graeme Poucher, Garlang Booth, Skidmore; Joan Lemke, School, Boston, Mass.; Carol Blank- erly Hoag, St. Johnsville, NY; more College. To Speak Doris Coffey, .Schenectady, Barbara· Marden, Philadelphia, Pa.; Susie . Independents Professor Harold A. Lar.rabe·e of Pierce, Bennington College, Vt.; Union will be ·one of the speakers Nancy McClellan, Columbia Grad- Mary Way, Skidmore College; at the inaug.uration of Dr. T. V. uate School, NYC; Elaine Clarke, Beverly France, Wilmington, D~l.; Smith as the fi·rst \Triple-P'' pro- Ohio Wesleyan U., Delaware, Ohio; Theresa Wall, Albany, NY; Alberta fessor of poetry, philoe;ophy, and Ruth Jensen, .Albany, NY; Pat An- Burnside, Carthage, NY; Barbara politics at Syracuse University thony, Plattsburg State Tteachers Blessing, Radcliffe; Mickey Scotto,· November 10. College, Plattshu·rg, NY; Elaine Brooklyn, NY; Laura Canaday, Professor Smith, who received Gray, Ogdpnsburg, NY; Marge Di- East Greenbush, NY; Mary Haas, the honorary degree of Litt.D. from cerbo, Schenectady; Pat Pattison, Albany, NY; Betty Barrow, Salem, Union in 1941, is well-known to St. Lawrence U., Canton, NY; Caro- N. H.; Mai'y Mac.A!ister, Albany, radio audiences as the founder of lyn Has\ve'll, Hartwick College;. ~Y; Suki Rayner, Bennington the University of Chicago Round Betsy Ross Stone, Stephens College, ~allege, Vt.; Alice Watson, Sche- Table, and as the debate opponent Columbia, Mo.; Peggy Kahles, Skid- uectady; Gerda Pick, Skidmore of Seator Robert A. Taft. PCltronize CONCORDIENSIS .At{vertisers! JAZZ BAN·D BALL \WILD BILL\ DAVISON GEORGE BRUNIES TONY PARENTI RALPH SUTTON JACK LESBERG GEORGE WETTLING FROM EDDIE CONDON'S ANI). NICK'S · IN NEW YORK SUNDAY, NOV. 21 • 3 P. M, CIRCLE INN • LATHAM $1.50 Per 'Person, Jnc:L Tax TICKETS AT Van ·Curler Music - ··525 State Street' ·Allan Blue Phi Gamma· Delta OR PHONE 6-3232 - 4-5101 more College; Peg Kenealy, Sche- College; Tana D'Antonino, Johns- nectady; Fran \Visenburn, Syra- town, NY; Marilyn Johnson, Sltid- cuse U.; Alice Sherman, Kent U ... more College; Margaret Cai·Ison, Kent, Ohio; Sue Bartlett,' Doris Jamestown, NY; Dorothy Mitchell, Sievers and Helen Jones from Schenectady; Janet Sqohn, Me- Green Mt. Junior College; Carolyn chanicviUe, NY; Beverly Haslam, Ricketts, Stc.phcns College. Colum- : EJg.,wouu, RI; Duwthy Loudon, bia, Mo.; Marge Moore, Ortonville, Bayshore, L.T; Carol Ca1·penter, M1ch; Mary Gexeley, Schenectady; Bath, Maine; ~:Iary Mcintyre, Uni- Mary Hinman, Albany, NY. varsity of Rochester; Joan Eager, -----~ .. Kappa Nu Vassar College; Phyllis Haslan, Edgewood, RI; Alice Agedal, Es- perance, NY; :\:Iaureen Hanway, Skidmore; J. Patricia Martino, Larchmont. NY; Emlena Blance, Fulton, NY. Phi Sigma Delta Edwina Simon and Janice Feld of Long Beach, L.I.; Nicee Fript, Russell Sage College; Phyllis Ro- TAILS TUX FOR FOOTBALL HOLIDAY AT ·Ottaviano's Sart·orial Bar .114 JAY ST. OPP. CITY HALL Doris Duhan, Bellevue School of Nursing; Janet Rabineau, Albany; Irene Lutzky, Oberlin, Ohio; Pa- tricia Davis, Ultima Thule; Iris Zelikofsky, Russell Sage College; Ann Ruth Turkel, Albany Meclical College; Sheila Orunsten, Troy, NY; Ruth Burns, Malverne, L.I.; Felice Bernstein, Malverne, L.I.; Barbara Feltman, Albany, NY; Lois senthal, Russell Sa~e; -~I~i_~~~~~=- ~-=- =_:::=:__::..=_::_:::= _ _::_::_::_::;::_ =:=:=:=:=::=:=:==:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=======~! CHESTERFIELD IS BUILDING ANOTHER FACTORY BECAUSE ALL OVER AMERICA MORE MILLIONS OF SMOKERS ARE ASKING FOR Soon our newest factory will be taking its place in the Chesterfield sky line in,Durham, N.C., where the Chesterfield· factory group is ah·eady \A city within a city.\ With the addition of this modern factory, efficient in every way, Chest- erfield will continue to keep smokers from coast to coast well supplied with the cigarette that is- SO MilD SO MilD THEY SATISFY MILLION$ THEY'LL SATISFY YOU- --·-. Vol.: s H v . Ji fied 1 dama UniOI stude R vi ties ment Pem darnag was· tl of Un penalb would howev• not as foot tl a rest The si rick's· the rul Co unci The meet whole betwet Huntlt ly rel that t: When contes two sc no re~ \thing worse. proble Mea• upon i Comm cuss ' bill. J estima either that it Iars f< Fern he die will cc have 1 assess· but ha any d, proble meetir that t the e:ll how ii ''l F(J . The the B< spans< man f Nove•II thrOU! The speak· Searle Relati man Prote: New' sociat New· dent Cuthl: and : stein. The daily noon progr, smok< dormi ning < disctu Thurf Mem< will Boar< urda:Y IeadeJ Spe be I speall Hmm who· the Thur: and < It?\

Robell, NJ. silon Syracuse; NY; Janet ge. of to A ALL Nil NICK'S 3 P.M. Tax State Street' Delta 4-5101 HALL .Founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 76, No. 9 SCf.IENECTADY. N. Y., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1'948 P.RfCE 10 CENTS Students to Pay High Price For Victory Over RPI UDion Favored To Rout Irish By complicated statistical analysis local experts contend that the Union Coljege eleven, one of the .best smaH college teams in the country, outranks big time Notre Dame by 76 points. College .States Definite Priority Regulations All future assignments for Dutchman's Village will be made on a definite . • priority scale after the college takes over control of the village Monday, it was announced this week by Carter Davidson, president of the college. - Jim. Pemrick, president of the Student Council, was noti- , fied by President Car.ter Davidson this past week that the damage done to RPI's campus on the nights preceding the Union-RPI football game, will have to be paid for by the student body of this college. RPI students will also be held responsible for their acti- vities on this campus on those nights, according to an agree- ment reached by the presidents of the two colleges. The -reasoning goes some- thing like this: Union beat pre¥iously unde- feated Middlebury 14-7 for a 7 po1nt lead. Middlebll,ry •beat Norwich 40-0 so Union is 41 points better than Norwich. College Community In TB X-Ray Drive <!> Acting on suggestions of students, the administration decided to exhaust the present list of applicants before con- sidering new applications. Davidson Firm ~ Pemrick argued in vain that the F •1 s e damage inflicted on RPI's campus . . I ; m. . e r J.e· s was· the result of a smaJI minority of Union students, and therefore A. d penalizing the whole student body· .. nn· O U· n C e would be unfair. The president,. however, pointed out that he could The Mountebanks has announced· not ask the Board of Trustees to that \It Happened One Night,\ foot the bill, since the damage was starring Clark GBible a'nd Claudette a result of unauthorized activity. Colbert, will be its next pvesenta- The students responsible for Pem.s · tion in Old Chapel. The film will rick's· problem flagrantly violated ·be shown at 4 P.M. and 7:30 P.M. the rules establishe-d by the Student on Monday and Tuesday. Admis- Council. sian price is 15 cents. The Deans of RPI and Union will meet next week to discuss the This comedy, whiche received the whole problem of student rivalries Academy Award in 1932, is con- between the two schools. Dean sidered to be one of the finest Huntley desi;es to maintain fried- comedies ever filmed. It started the ly relations with RPI and feels· pattern of modern day film come- that the tro-uble can be ironed out. dies and introduced a realistic When asked if he felt that athletic form of aeting. It set the stand~rd contests would continue bewe·en the of '\boy meets girl\ which has been two schools, the dean said he saw used in film comedies ever since. It no reason why they shouldn't if, proved, too, that movies could be \things don't go from bad to produced inexpensively, since this worse.\ He felt confident that the was one of the least expensive problem will be resolved. major filmes ever produced. Ways and! Means the Te~:rible\; Nov. 29 and 30, \For- MeanWhile, Pemrick has called Both the Mountebanks and the upon the head of the Student Tax Department of Modern Languages Committee, Jim Hogeboom, to dis- are planning to continue their cuss way and means to meet the series of movies until June. The bill. As yet, there is no official price of admissions will be fifteen estimate of the cost of repairs for cents. The following schedule in- either college, but it is believed ·eludes those films to be presented that it might reach a thousand d<ll- by both g-roups alternating each Iars for each institution. week until Christmas :recess: Nov. Norwich beat Massachusetts State 27-0 which gives Union a 74 point lead over Massa- chusetts State. Following this trend Massa- chusetts State beat Rhode Is- land .State 19-0 ( 67 points for Union) ; R. I. State tied spring- field 21-21 (still 67 points for Union); Springfield beat N.Y:U. 3-0 :(70 points for Union) ; N.Y.U. beat Lehigh 21-20 (Un- ion slides to 71 points) ; Lehigh beat Muhlenburg 35-20 (Union j u m p s to 86) Muhlenburg squelched .Boston U. 27-0 (Un- ion's ticker reads 113) ; Boston U. beat Colgate 14-13 (to give Union 114) ; Colgate lost to Penn State 13-32 (so Union is 95 points better than Penn State) ; and Penn State tied Michigan State 14-14. SO . . . with Michigan State losing 7-26 to Notre Dame, the Union backers ·figure Union is 76 points better than Notre Dame. These figures were compiled by Jack Pearson and George Peck, both alumni of Union and both sports editors of The Concordiensis. Now they are employed by the General Elec- tric Co. Russell Hits Intolerance A concerted drive to have every student and faculty member of Union College X-rayed for tuberculosis during the coming week was announced by Dr. Alexander Arony, in conjunction with the Schenectady County Committee on Tuberculosis and Public Health. Group Asks For Action At a recent meeting of the Inter- group Council at Albany State Teachers College it was decided to extend the activities of this group to the other colleges in the Capitol district. The funcion of the Inter Group Council is to strengthen interna- tional and interracial understand- ing and to work against discrim- ination, it was explained by Her- mann Trickel, who attended. The newly-organized group will try to do this by a clarification of the ex- isting problems in open discussions as well as thmugh practical action, he said. Among the suggested dis- cussion topics were \Discrimination in Fraternities\ and \The Quota System.\ Members of the frater- nities and of the college adminis- trations will be invited, It was also proposed to organize picketing before Jim Crow swim- ming pools, to help in the estab- lishment of interracial comm-unity centers, and to work as English teachers for the DP's who will ar- rive in Albany soon, Nickel re- .ported. Over one-half million persons in the United States are hospitalized for TB, but several times that number have the disease and are unaware of it. ' The X-ray pictures will be taken at the city hall beginning Monday, November 15 through Saturday, November 20 between the hours of 9:30a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and from 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 a.m. A special port- able machine, capable of taking the picture in one minute and not re- quiring disrobing, has been set up to accommodate members of Union College and their families. T:B now takes the highest toll of any disease among people in youth and middle age. Dr. Arony intends to make the Chest X-ray part of the routine physical examination for all enter- ing students. He also emphasized that X-rays should be taken at least once a year to insure early treatment when necessary. The X-my is the best method of detecting TB in its early stages, when it can be arrested aud cured, As yet, no evidence of the pres- ence of TB on campus has been found. This drive is a routine mat- ter. Dr. A.rony urged that all com- muters make arrangements to get to city hall and have X-rays taken, Early stages ... f TB are treated by rest, but la.ter stages often :re- quil•e immobilization and some- times major operations. Preference will be given veterans with two or more children, vet- erans with one child and veterans without children in that order. Between now and June, 1949, the college anticipates twenty-six va- cancies: six in February and twenty in June. In connection with the Village, these rules will prevail in the future: 1. At no time will veterans with- out children be assigned to a two bedroom unit. 2. Formal application for a unit student is married. 3. All rents will be payable at the Comptrollers' Office. It was announced that student rent will remain the same for the present time. • At present, there are 58 students, all veterans, and 20 faculty mem- bers living in the Village. Only three non-veterans occupy units, which is less than the 5% author- ized. The administration feels that the peak of faculty placement bas been reached in the Village. How- ever, if 1t is necessary to place a faculty member in the Village in the future in order to maintain the teaching staff, the placement will be made. The president points out that at no time has a faculty member been assigned to a unit without an honest •ilffort on the part of the administration to find a home for him outside the Village. The college is continuously searching for fac- ulty homes, and is still untiring in its efforts in this direction, he ex- plained. According to President Davidson, the college faces a difficult prob- lem in assigning units. The pres- ent facilities cannot serve the num- ber of students and faculty mem- bers desiring accommodations. Pemrick admitted frankly that 15, \It Happened One Night\; Nov. he did not know where the funds 22, the Russian production \Ivan will come· from. H( and Hogeboom the Terrible\; December 6, 'For- have thought of th6 pCJ·ssibility of gotten Village\ with a sho'rt fe·a- assessing each student individually, ture with Arturo Toscaninni; De- but have not been able to decide on camber 13, \La Fille due Puisatier\. any definite course of action. The Other features in the new year will problem .will come before the next be \Marie Louise\ \Child of Para- meeting of the Student Council. At dise\ \Overlanders\, \Brief En- that time the members will have counter\ \Seventh Veil\ \Grapes the exact bill, and they_ will decide of Wrath\ \Destry Rides Again\ how it can best be met. and \Nothing Sacred\. The conference was attended by students oOf Russell ;Sage, Sai.nt Rose, Siena, RPI and Union. The next meeting will be held at Albany State :Qecember 8. Afterwards the monthly meetings will rotate from one school to the other. \The United States must show that democracy means tolerance and friendship, not hate and pre- judice,\ said Harold Russell, hand- less veteran and star of \The Best Years of Our Lives\ in his talk in Chapel ori Tuesday. Mr. Russell has been on a nation-wide tour speaking in veterans hospitals. He was sponsored in Schenectady by the local chapter of B'nai Brith. ''Hum·anSituation'' Theme ¥:!~!/~ev;;~t~na~c~~~:C~!~~a~:. Senior Revolt Union College, Mont Pleasant, had n· D I bl Nix To Long Range Plan Prompts New Drive Set-up 0 . c ~ two radio interviews, and appeared IPS ep ora e Temporary discontinuance of the . 'om zng on erence at the Jewish Community Center. Union College campus drive for · · · · . . . · Mr. RUssell emphasized mainly A movement to \get a decent dip- funds for the Memorial Field house The Student Life Committee of® the need for unity in America at lorna;'' has been started in the has been announced. The halt was the Board .of Chapel Associates will a time when the Russians are d& senior class. The feelings of some called after much student apathy For sponsor a \Conference on the Hu- The first seminar on Tuesday will ing their best to discredit our kind members ·Of the claSs were echoed and discontent was met concerning man Situation\ beginning Tuesday, 'be led by Dr. Daniel, the subject of government. \Democracy is on by one member who thought that the role of the Field house in a November 16, \nd continuing being \What Now, ·scientist?\ a trial,\ he said, \and we must end the diplomas given. by Union Coilege lcng range college buiiding pro- ... consideration of the sct'entist's re- the 1'ntolerance and per·secution · through Sunday, November 21. · were not on a par with the char- gram a reliable source noted. sponsibility in the atomic age. The that drives group against group. acter of the college. Another mem- Plans are now being drawn up for The conference will feature as discussion panel Wl'll t'nclude Pro- · Th. t h d'ed together· · e ve erans w 0 I · ber said that the diplomas did not th_ e organization of an advisory speakers ~the Rev. Robert W. fessors •ugustus H. Fox, Harold kn w n·o prejudt\ce Yet we who .... 0 · • • carry the college seal, and were of committee that will work with the Searle, D.D,, director of Community A._, La_ rrabee., an_d_ Wt\nf_red M. a e al've because of thet'r sacr1'fice · - · . - - - - r 1 . . .. - - - . • · a size and quality of printing and authorities of Union College in de- Relations and secretary of the Hu- Schwarz. Th1\s semt'n_ar wt'll be held' b\ t d s ever We should. . are as 1go e a . · paper that the diplomas were total- veloping a prog-ram. man Relations Commission, the in room 22 of the Electrical Engi- be guided by incidents 1ike that of ly unsuitable for framing. -The Pro-testant Council of the City of nearing Building at 4:30 Tuesday. the chaplains M the Dorchester, same member went on to say that Already three rnembers of the New York; Dr. Alga Henderson, as- The others will take place in Old and put an end to discrimination.\ his brothe·r was roven a very good student body have been selected by sociate commissioner of education, Chapel at_ 4:00. The Wednesday \'\ 'I th N dip· lorna from an Albany business the Student Counc1 for e com- ew York State, and former presi- seminar, \What No, Human Male?\ · Th J d t t . C d D college for four months work, and mtttee. ese men are ames en of An wch ollege; an r. will be a discussion of the ethics ·So h D F h · t W It C t P S 0 . Wfl ro· S he could _see \~-n excuse for the Peinrick council prestden , a er u hbert Daniel, atomic scientist of sex in th.e light of the Kinsey · \\\ C d · t f. D t E\ · diplomas given by Union for four Doran Inter-Fraternity ouncil an assoCla e o r. Alber Ill- report, by Profes_sors Arthur K. n• • li s ' t d R 1 b N tl . t ·ISCI. p ne to tay· years work.\ p.res1den an a p es e presl- s ein. Davis and Clare W. Graves, with _ · dent of the Philomathians. The conference will include four Dr. Searle as moderator. On Thurs- Despite the utter seriousness of daily assemblies at noon, four after- day, the dincussioli will concern Sam Newcoihber, that benevolent the senior class members behind The advisory committee is to be noon seminars, a Freedom Forum the ethics of self interest and will guardian of freshman interests, the agitation for \more impressive of a permanent nature consisting program on Tuesday, a dinner- be enl;itled \What No, ·Self First?\ saps that from now no no dis- diplomas,\ it is felt that the whole of: three representatives of the col- smoker in Hale House at 6:00 and The panel on Thursday will consist ciplinary action will be taken movement is merely of the teapot- lege administration, four members dormitory bull sessions- in the eve- of President carter Davidson, Pro- against the frosh unless \there is tempest variety. Since the total of the faculty (one from each di\ ning on Wednesday, a luncheon and fessor samuel Stratton, Mr. John a serious departure of expected number of students involved is in- vision), three representatives of discussion at SillLman Hall at 12:30 P. Lewis, and Mr. James Bristol of conduct\ on the part of fr.eshman. significant-to date about four. the college alumni and also three Thursday, and a worship service in the Friends: Service Committee. He said this Wi.U be the policy be- members of the student body M_emorial Cll.apel on Sunday. There During the final seminar on Friday, .. cause \they are th'E,l deadest bunch chosen by the Student Council. Will also be a , lunch~on for the a panel made lip of Professors Wil- of guys\ he's ever seen and don't This thirteen man committee it is Board of Chapel A.ssoc1ates on Sat- liam M. Murphy and Benjamin p, respond to Soph \treatment.\ All Gambling Night felt will lend unity to the planning ur!iay and a conference for student, Whitaker and Mr. Brostol will talk this kindness despite the results of and action necessary to carry out a leaders at Tippecanoe on Sunday. over the question \W'hat No Hu- the ftosh-soph contests that ended The Student Wives Club will hold program of expansion which will Speakers at daily assemblies will man Fights?\ ' ' last week! , a Gambling Night at Dewey Hall include not only the field house beo Dr. Henderson on Tuesday · · The freshmen were victorious in . next Friday at 8 p.m. Betting wili but also a dormitory and a new speaking on \Educating for Better; At the Freedom Forum program tennis, bridge, table tennis, and be done with stage money, so no libraz:y. number of years. Permanent rep- resentation on the advisory com- mittee most students again agree wiil help to keep a goal of a com- plete program in action. AU plans, however, al'e contingent on the success of the current cam- paign to secure the $400,000 needed before construction of the field house can begin. Harold van de Car, director of Financial Develop- ment, reports that satisfactory progress is being made i n solicit- ing Alumni aid. He also expressed confidence that Union students will respond well to the request for twenty-five dollar pledges. ---o UCCA Speaker The Union College Christian As- sociation will present the seventh in their series, \Religion As I See It,\ this Sunday evening, Novem- ber 14th, at 6 P.M. in Silliman Hall. A buffet supper will be served by the faculty wives following which Rev. Lawrence L. Jensen, pastor of the Faith Lutheran Church, wi11 gi-ve his interpretation of Luther- anism. A discussion period \'111 fol- low Rev. Jensen's remarks. All students are invited to attend. Hl.l:lllan Relations;\ and Dr. Searles, at 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, Dr. Daniel swiln.ming; while the class of '51 one will lose more than the price who ·on Wednesday will speak oil will speak on \Atomic Energy-A ·asserted 'its superiority in volley- of admission. With their winnings Most authorities on C'ampus opin- the subject \Who Am I?,\ on Compromise Proposal.\ The forum . ball, lacrosse, basketball, football from bingo, red dog, bird cage, ion agree that there is quite a Thursday on \What Do I Want?\ will be held in Memorial Chapel. and the tug-o-war. The chess con- roulette, poker and other card· feeling that the fieid house will aild on Friday on \How Do I Get The Wednesday bull sessions are test is still in progress, according games, the bettors :will bid for mean the beginning arid the end The Christian Association has also purchased a dart board, a chess set, a checker set and some added ping-pong {'quipmi>nt. These games are available at Silliman Hall and may be used by anyone signing out for therrt with Chap- lain Brown's secretary. It?\ set for 9:00p.m. to Newcomber. prizes which will be auctioned off. of building at Union for quite a

2 FRIDAY., ·~OY.EMBER 12; 1948 The Happy Hour \To me,'' said Pritchard feeling words I use all the time? WTiat The Reader Writes Dear Sir: By ]ames .Baar arnurnr I 1·ead with horror the announcement in the Edward Pritchard never expected a .bit faint. \'VVhat could you have ·'about · \ November fifth issue of the Concordiensis that the to see a leprechaun when he was \Now hold on a minute. That's \'all'r'ng back to his room from a to say to me?\ J'ust what I've been saying. You Interfraternity Council intends to have no open ,. • t t th t you are an ml .d-night coffee break. In fac \Nothing excep a : have spent four years not only house pm ties othel' than those fcllowing the proms. . d Klof appar- ,Edward Pritchard had never ex- absolute ass,\ snee.re ',. · , being a conformist, but you have I should like to register my protest, and ask the - h elf You ve IFC to reconsider their decision. pected to see a leprechaun at. any- enliY enjoying · Ims · , conclusively pvoved . \ . , Member Associated Col- Editorial Office, Washburn Iegiale Press aud dislri- Hall, Union College. l'ub- butor of the Collegiate lication Office, 'rhe Ga- time but there could be no d1sput- spent four years here at col:ege, \You're out of your mmd, I am not a member of a fraternity, nor have I • d th ved conclusiVely ing it. As Pritchard entere . e and you have pro screamed Pritchard. \What do you 8eriously contemplated joining one, because I have · t · \ ? N nasture road, a leprechaun was Sl - just one thmg. . . , know? Have you •been here. o. found that it is verv nossible to get a great deaJ of, \ h 1 h t?J' asl<ed Pntchard, Digest. National Adv,r- zette l'ress, 334 State Et. Using Representative: Na- .t..;atered. iu the Sdwnec:- tional Adverti:5ing St_•rvic~...>, tadJ' I'o~t Uffh.·c a;:; St·L'- J \ tlng on the fourth step in t e co - \What's t a · , Besides what are you any-way. use out of all the fraternities by belonging to none lege wa.ll. Furthermore he was seeing a ray of hope. . You're nothing. You're a figment Of t hem. For a long time now, the houses here at · b '\n t h t I have sar'd\ chortled • Inc., College l'ulllishL,l's Dill! Cla8S !\Jail lllaUer. l{epresentative, 1:.!0 l\Iadi- ~ub~crJIJtiun lUc a. cupJ.·, son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- $~ Yt'IU': !leli\'ered :my- · ·completely dressed· !Jl a . ro, \Jus w a · ' . of my imagination.\ . · Union have kept me in cigarettes and beer, have tweed suit .and was wearmg a Klof. \You're an ass. Liste? \Now ca:lm down, Pritchard, and afforded me the inestimable comforts of leather la,rge AI Smith button pinned to Pritchard I'l'l be as ldnd as posst-. listen to reason;\ Klof, blushing a: lished every l!'rhlay of the \\here in the U11ited 8chool year. Elates. Chal ·r·s and clern restrooms, have staked me and my 1 M ' le are more or less d t 1 his right coat la;pe . ble. ost peop . · . , deen emerald, was espera e Y Jnd,'fJ·iends to meals. In other words, they have another\ they either· \' h' t George T. Orlek .....•...................•....... Editor James Baar ........................... A sso('!Ute I'ditor Albert Curbo ......................... :Uamtg·ing ELl! tor \ J Pritchard was ·even more sur- one way or ' , .striving to hold IS emper. given me all the pleasures of fraternity, with none prised when the leprechaun called say what they mean or. mea~ what \Don't you reaS'On me;\ continued James .!llnrmy ....•....••..•••............ N l'Ws Editor Herbert Saxe .....•...................... Sports Etlltur of the drawbacks, such as the requirement of loving b 1 t you P!'ltchard you · t d th him by his name. they say, ' l ' , ' , Pritchard, now edgmg owar e or.e's brothers o1· the more stringent requirement of don't do either. ,,You mean \\hat . h h' fi t 1 nched 'Hello there,\ mustered Pritchard. leprechaun w1t . IS 1s s c e · paying for what I get. . h ?\ other people say. . \I'll show you whose a conform~st. This ousting of the cam nus Independents seems \What I mean, w 0 are you· '\That's not true,\ shouted Pnt- t '' f tl b · us what I I'm going· to drag you down o my Robert Hcin~ma,nn ........................ Phuto Editor Jo'rancls llleehan .................. , l'ireulntiun ~Iunagcr J ·ust another· abrogation of the rights of Free Enter·- \It's per ec Y 0 vw chard, \.you don't know .what Y.ou 1' t t , · d h 1 h As for .room .a11d make yoli IS en o m. Y . d t t th h'gh pr·r'nci'ples am\ sai t e eprec aun. ar·e talk'Ing about. Y.o~ re. callmg Lambert Uinsborg, .................. Bn•iness .Uauager Jim Rt·yson ............... , ............... , Js,ne Editor Jim Etllng·l'r ..................... A<•tlug Spnrh E-1lit\'r pnse, an appears coun er o · e 1 ' f ·t k any differ . Khatchaturian records. I'm gmng Wl .th \'llr.cll th·e f-raternities were once endowed. who I am, i 1 rna es · · ,- me a confor·mist. an rm1tator, a t'l ,. · E 1 Klof that s to r•ead Pound to you un I you I • d' f h' t of the '\ampus ence my name IS ro .. ' counterfel'tl, M. e, \'·ho has nevev . I 1 ~~ent t us 1sen rune 1semen · .,. · 11 d b k ards\ \ can't hear anymore. I'm gomg 11 t 1 f th . g folk lore spe e ac w · confor·med. DI'dn't I .. 0 t.e ·for Henry polyps, and I can upon a rue overs o some m , . 'd Pri'tchard • . .\ P. ri'tchard had reached the. A b 1 f 111 \Oh I see, sa1 ' W. allace\. Don't I go downtown and· for r.othing to raly round me. as · es reres. · · h h 11 d'd 't \Tell me wal·l, and with a .Junge he dived at Spirits For ·union thoug e rea Y I n · ' talli to members of minority g. rou, ·!JS th Tearfully yours, h t d ·ng there?\ t I ·K·Iof cr·acking his skull on e w a are you or · Friday afternoon? Drdn ·. , George W. Zopf. \I'm waiting· for you, of course. every _ d hole junior· steps. He was still lying t~ere · The recent IFC decree closing out all but brethren from fratemity parties has raised a proposition once more: Why isn't there a rathskellar on campus open to all students and faculty? The seed of thought must lodge in student minds to facilitate fertile growth. There are undoubtedly tavems in town where intelligent gentlemen congregate over a cheering glass of nut-brown ale to discuss current controversies, but Union students frequently are prone to accept the nearest bar and let it go at that. It \Vould definitely be to the credit of Union to draw the after- study cro\vd away from the local bistros, dives, slop-chutes, and taverns and give them a cheaper draught in the bargain. P.S. Another painful item: Several persons, in- cluding some faculty members, weve admitted to the prom only afte;: great difficulty. They had neglected to don formal dress. These ,people had purchased ticl,ets, or in the case of .the faculty mem- bers, had received invitations. Some of them had come with dates to the dance, others had come only to hear Duke Ellington. I have nothing against fo~mal dress; I get. a great deal of pleasure feeling somehow supenor when I have it on. It gives a comfortable sort of, ur.iformity to the people who really count: Just the same, I don't see why It should be .reqmr~d. of those to whom it confers no aura of soctal poSI~IOn, or those whom circumstances or finance depnves. Let us have ·formal dances by all means, but let us admit all those who have purchased tickets ·Or have been invitee. Now that a tuxedo can be rented for five dollars, it should be ob);ious that the presex;ce )r absence of that garment has nothing to ~o wr;~ the person inside of it. A bas le potage et porsson. · · Why else would I be sitting In t_his wear~ a~~~~ d:yyo: call that? when his roommate, Bop $tone, ridiculous place. I have somethmg I i:r:h·. g\ What about the Italian found him. that I want to say to you.\ . o m · , By Alfred Siesel From Greener Fields W ord would be for the first two 1st Roommate: Jamaica? Mount Holyoke's Spanish Glos- sal·y: Cuba-Shape of our head. Haiti-Singular of the place one h 2rtd Roommate: Don't be so nights. The first night, t e n::me of any president of the Umted damned inquisitive. States and the second night the The Annapolis Log: Burges Johnson pleaded in chapel one day last fall for more and better bull ses- sions. What could be more conducive to whistling merry patter than the association of relaxing minds after several hours of belaboring books? It does not seem likely that a choice between books and brew would be for long- a cardinal consideration. l\Iost students are in college to graduate. and would for selfish motives seek the develop- ment of mind before salving fevered spirits. Nor could the. lure of hale fellows on cold nights be step one in lmocldng down the morals of fledgling scholars. Rather. it would be a lesson in gentlemanly conduct not to participate in drinking bouts when mental efficiency is demandel'l the following morn- ing. The students who learned rational drinking habit while in military service are becoming progressively fe\\·er; moderate im- bibing is as much a lesson to be learned as the control of temper. However, the college administration can- not sponsor such a set-up. The student council discussed the proposal at length dur- ing the memorable Tippecanoe conference last J.\Iay, and passed the decision to higher Freshman Life in Holland \Foet'' is tne Dutch term for frosh meaning 1 som£>thing immature or green. It is the word the ! Dutch freshman hears the three weei{S of hazing he goes through before being initiated into the \LPiden Stucent Corps.\ His weary ears have to hear from eight in the morning until twelve thirty at night how utterly worthless he is and how much he has yet to learn. Getting up at Reven he dresses in the traditional \foet\ nttir<' whiC'h inP]UdPR a vPry old suit with a VPst, a. papPr \\llnr ann a hup> hla<'k bow·tie. His I shaven head is covPrE>d with a big C'ap that he bas I to lift respectfully whcn·vet· ·he meets an uppet· class man. Daily .. !_)uti£>s Then he takes off for his first duty of the day. waking up an upperclassmen who has wt·itten his address in the freshman's nntPbnok which is can i(·d by him at all times. The upperclassman, usually in a bad \nwrning-·after-the-night-before-with-much· Dutch-gin\ mood, lets him do some udd job:< such as shoe-polishing, cleaning up after the meal. or if he feels like it, he talks with him and gets to know him better. After an hour the \foet\ is dismissed and goes to the building of the student society where the whole group of odd and sleepy looking \greens\ is split up and kept busy for the morning either by gym-practice for two hours at a stretch or rehears- ing for the Freshmar.'s Caban•t performHnf'P. As we students In Holland have our lunch up in our rooms. two or three to~ether, the freshmen are now assigned to a lunch 101ddress. Mostly he has a very nasty time there but once in a while he finds a more human upperclassman waiting for him, so that he can relax and find a sympathetic ear to hear about all the injustices that life is piling upon him. In the a ftNr.oon he goes to thP Rtud!'nt Rowing Club whPre h\ gets to know the principle of rowing in big squat·e rowing boats that carry rowers. All this is accomplished by the necessary shouting and scolding. Sometimes they put wise guys or boys who try to foul up the rowing on top of the mooring- poles in the micdle of the canal. Here they have to stay until some soft-hearted spectator gets them off. Otherwise they have to swim back. You will find out if you ever come to a Dutch university that rowing is as popular among students as football here and the ~ace-rowers are in high esteem. Strange Di,.eussions When the clock strikes five the freshmen go. back in a big- prorpssion to th<' StudPnt Boeiety where all the members of the \Student Corps· are gathel- ing for dinner. Classes have not yet star~ed and everyone except the freshm:n has. a good time se:- ing all his old friends agam while the Dutch gm lands if caught not signing out. Bahamas- Yes, we have none. Lima-Like lemons, only green. Holy Cross Tomahawk: \Oh darling, I've missed you.\ And she raised the revolver and fired again. Slddmore News-Str·eam sciousness: Exam Can't sham of Con- Hungry am authority. The present situation ·seem~ to crackers-jam be this: a license to sell beer for on-premises Minced ham consumption issued to the college might And spam impugn the claim that the institution exists ~~sf~~. solely for educational purposes. Therefore Oh, da:m. the city government might be in~uced to As it was said in the West levy property taxes on college holdmgs. Pointer \Is this dance formal, or A private club, however, composed of can I ~ear my own clothes?\ students and faculty might secure a license Stevens Stute--Chemical Note: without J. eopardizillQ: the land-grant-educa- - ld Always measure out cyanide solu- tional immunity of Union. This wou tions in a graduate, not a pipette. necessitate greater student activity than if If you use a pipette, there won't the administration were in charge. be any graduate. The reconstruction plans for the current The Rider News: school :vear include remodeling Old Chapel, Just because a man doesn't make includiri'g the cellar. The suggested meeting an \A\ or \B\ average in every place therefore will be ready for the rath- course,. doesn't mean he can't use skellar, but will there be an organization de- his head when he is put on the velepode to utilize it? At a 25-50 percent spot. 'd George Mazzio, ex-bouncer in a saving on prices to consumer, bes1 es pro- touch nitery in Newark, ex-truck viding· a meeting place for non-fraternity driver who never failed to deliver men and guests, a rathskellar club on campus a load, and ex-Marine who carried would greatly enhance the ''Spirit of Union.\. a flame thrower from the Calia! to Iwo Jima, may not be a master By J. J. Alberdingk flows lavishly. At first the ignorant visitor does not see any freshman until he happens to look for, him on a somewhat Jower level. There he is sitting en the floor, looking very frightened at all the noise and patiently enduring it as some upperclassmen dum\j:> their glasses over his shaven head. He is never left alone. If he is idle for a moment there is always somebody around who takes him along and starts the oddest discussions with him. Now hC' has to defend his religious principles and when the sophomore he is talking to gets tired of him, a junior drags him away and orders him to explain the connection between the sex-life of an African crocodile and the kilt of a Scotchman (no offense meant, Graham Martin, but this happened to me!) This goc·s on all through the night until twelve twenty when he is released for a short night of sl<'t'p in which the confusions, insults and strange expel iences still haunt him. Triai Period You might ask what the use is of all this. I'll try to explain it briefly. This per!od of three weeks is meant as a trial for the boy who has left high- mathematician, but he certainly can put two and two together in a hurry if the occasion calls for it. George's second night on Iwo was one he won't forget for some time. Between beating off infiltrat- ing Nips and ducking grenade blasts from his own gang, he man- aged to get his fill of calisthenics. The fireworks were not a new ex- perience by any means. Two days before, on board ship, after the officers had briefed their men, tbey revealed what the pass• L. G. Balfour Co. BADGES STEINS RINGS JEWELRY GIFTS FAVORS STATIONERY PROGRAMS CLUB PINS KEYS MEDALS TROPHIES Write or Call name of any American-made auto- k t mobile, would get them throug·h the Professor <rapping on des a opening of class): \Order:\ perimeter. For some reason or other, George Class: \Be·er.\ had crawled out of his fox-hole The Stevens Stute: during a break in the battle. When t he tried to get back in, he was met As a public service we prese~ by a growling challenge asking for the degrees of achievement aV\aLl- the password. George died a thous- able to all who should enter the and times in one second. He had teaching profession. forgotten which password was good Instructor on the second night-presidents or Bewildered young engineering automobiles! graduate unable to succeed in in- Too long a delay meant a bar- dustry. Stutters frequently as he is rage of grenades on top of him. only one chapter ahead of the class. In a strained voice he answered Desperately intends to get a the challenge with \Lincoln!\ and doctor's degree. Call him \Sir\ if w·as Jet back into the perimeter. you want a good mark. Assistant Professor A few weeks ago the Adelphi A promoted instructor. Promoted \Guido?\ printed directions for the when his speech finally became un- Adelphl students so that they could intelligible. Wears Tau Beta key reach New Haven to see the Adel- 'he found· at an ASME convention. phi-Te~cbers College football g~me. Has started to write a t-extbook. Here 1s a telegram the~ recerved Call him 'Professor\ to maintain a that Saturday afternoon. h' h t d. COld Town Mainel Jg s an mg. Dear Editor: ' Associate Professor Stranded here with 1 case Pabst, Originator of the working-my- $0.93, two quarts Rheingold, three way-through-school racket. Sells gallons Hi-test gas, 1 bottle Calvert his own textbooks instead of maga- White Label, five bandaids, four zines. Call him \Doctor\ if you paclts cigarettes, one cigar and want to pass. deck of cards. Directions to here Professor were perfect. Where is the game? Can recite lectures backwards or Car burned out. Please send money forwards; occasionally does both and be-er. Lost Guidon so please simultaneously. Wishes he had a send another with directions to get fortune instead of •a Doctor's de- home. Make it Schlitz. gree. Guy & Don· P. S.-Malte it anything. Clarkson Scarlet Saint: The Stevens Stute: The sc-ene was in the reading room of the Public Library. A man was reading birth and de-ath sta- tistics. Suddenly be turned to the man on his right and said, \Do you know that every time I breathe a man dies?\ \Very interesting;\ replied the stranger. \Why don't you chew gum?\ co-educational university recently (Continued on Page 4) ---o--- O'Neill Winner A carton of Chesterfield cigarets has been awarded to Jerry F. O'Neill, Jr., for his letter to the editor in The Concordiensis of 29 October. Arrangements have been made through John Meyer, c·ampus The Clarkson Scarlet Saint: Chesterfield representative to 1st Roommate: Where ya b-een? award a carton of thse cigarets 2nd Roommate: Out with my girl! periodically for the best letter to drinking rum. t the editor. GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACUL TV For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 601 Union Street school and is inclined to think -of himself as quite CARL SORENSES a successful and important person. By this big p· tt & H comedy in which the upperclassmen tries to keep a WATERFORD, NEW YORK a on all AUTO SERVICE straight face, while the freshman is deeply shocked T I h 6 44 X-RAY FITTING by \all the rotten conditions and injustice\ he finds· e ep one Z45 STATE ST.-since 1 898 in thf' student world some great results are achieved: ~=============~ ~~~~~~;;~~~;;;~~;;~ One. 1t puts the freshman to thinking about life; ;: I~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;* two, it unites the freshman class; three, it gives the II upperclassmen a good chance to get to know the new generation of students and observe how the boys .make out in the most difficult and· awkward positions. To end this story about the extra-curricu- lar education of the fresh~en in Holland, I a.pologise to the class of '52 for perhaps having given the ~ophomore disciplinary committee some new ideas. For Your Information Room rent for the second half of the current semester will be payable at the comptroller's office between the dates, November 16 and November 19, inclusive, during the hours of 8:30 a.m.-12:00 noon· anrl 1 :Oo-3:00 p.m. A late payment fee of $2.00 will be due after November 19. Rents due are as follows: Double rooms ............ $37.50 Triple rooms •............. 30.00 Single rooms .......... · . . 45.00 The management of the pasture dormitories has been taken over by the college. Rents for Wild· wood, Mohawk, Seneca, Beaver and Elmwood will also be payable at the comptroller's office. A new address- The same service-· reliable and competent Call 3-6700 • Union Cleaners Prompt Delivery Service THE University House 838 Union Street Famous for Its Excellent Home Cooked Meals Dinners Served Daily at 5:30 p. m. Saturday and Sunday at 12 noon SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 Moderate Weekly Rates I ~~~~~------~-,~1~14=S=T=A~TE=--=N=e=ar=F=.E=RR=Y~ FRIDAY. Cr Words win ovet• dlebury l 'Garnet s hail and for a job of pract Saturda:li tory pos: I hope dent bod the time effort t put in, to give great (Spring and alsc before term bel team : every p4 that it 1: come frc bury ple match l able last you up The T. played against held thE neers to beaten B RPI sqt the best the COUI game 01 them tl meet S1 Eastern TackJ, unseen: football pound : years a graduat ant Hi tained 1 aged tb .After Air Cor in Sept '46, he and sin man to Chuck, more c' silon fr Tak The c many not. bet lege li ( El11 v HC S:E Salt. Sl Mol

1948 raar What ~hat's You only have 1ind,\ o you No. ¥Way. rment t, and ing a: rately :inued ·d the 1ched. rmist. to iny to my going :1 you going ld the ved af n the there. Stone, iiesel be so lSk at lresent avail- er the teering in in- s he is e class. get a Sir\ if ~meted me un- ta key •ention. x:tbook. r1tain a :ng-my- S.ells maga- if you ards or s both had a lr's de- ·ecently ~) ~igarets lrry F. to the s of 29 re been c·ampus : i v e to cigarets ~tter to ---- \1 ~th CE MEN n the Head D ~ ERRY FRIDAY. NOVIMBER 12, :1948 Cridmen· . / .To With ----~--------------~--------------~--------------------~--~~----------------------------·~ Away ·. · · . · . · .· .Ketzmen WiU Enter IC4A; .S COREBOAR:D · Fi:nish The Season Unbeaten by !.!==Dick Robe1'ts--. * * * The Union College soccer team played great ball last .Saturday against RPI. The Qarnet •boaters held the Cherry and White engi- neers to a tie at the half, and were beaten 3-1 in the last quarter. The RPI squad, considered by many as the best collegiate soccer team in ° the country, had up to Saturday's .Intramural Swimmers game only one goal scored against them this season. Saturday they To Race Next Tuesday meet Springfield for the mythical The intramural schedule will go Eastern Cham,rio~s~ip. . back into full swing next Tue'Sday, Tackle Chuck Abba is one of the when a competitive swimming meet unseen heroes of Union's successful· will be held in Foote Memorial pool. Events to be held on Nov. 16th football season. Chuck, 22, 6'1\ 193 are the 50 yard freestyle, 50 yard pound sophomore, is in his second years as a varsity linesman. He backstroke, and the 200 yard relay graduated in 1944 from Mont Pleas- (four men). Weqnesday, Nov. 17th, ant High School where he cap- the events will be the 50 y.ard tained the football team and man- breaststroke, the 150 yard medley aged the 'basketball squad. (three men), and tt).e 100 yard free After his release from the Army style. On ·both days the competi- Air Corps in 1946, he entered Union tion will start at 4:45p.m. Entries in September. Under Mel Hein in will be taken at the pool,. and no '46, he played first string tackle man may compete in more than and since then, he has been a hard three events. At least six men from man to keep off that starting team. each group or house must compete Chuck, vice-president of the sopho- to gain entrance points, and no more class, is a member of Psi Up- members of the varsity or fresh- silon fraternity. man swimming team may enter. * * * Basketball and volleyball leagues Take a Bow Mr. Lawrence The Garnet line is considered by many sports writers as equal, if not. better, than the best small col- lege line in the country. .Coach (Continued on Page 4) GOOD FOOD? Try Elmer's Restaurant 149 Barreit St. Where Union Men Are Always Welcome HOFFMAN SKAT.E LAND • SKATE EVERY EVENING Salt. & Sun. Afternoon 2-5 P.M. · • SKATE DANCING CLASS Mon. & Wed. 6:15-7:45 :P, M. are to be formed next week, and all entries must be submitted to Art Lawrence in the gym not later than Monday, November 15. Neutral squads must name their teams and submit a roster. LANGE & RAPP Pharma~y PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOn TERRACE •nd STAtE STREET For the Finest IN MEN•s CLOTHING CHAS. HOLTZMAN &SON 259 STATE STBEET WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repail'in~ and Engraving Pens and the Finest Gifts Corner State and Ce11ter Sts. 11 .CHESTERFIELD is building another big, nevv factory for us smokers who like the MILDER cigareHe ••• It's MJ cigarette.u RADIO'S FAVORITE SON STAR OF CHESTERFIELD'S ARTHUR GODFREY TIME Copyri&l>t 1?48, IJcam & Mn~ ToBAcco Co. Panther Bid To Glass Bowl Shafter:ed by Garnet, 14-7 ®--------~----~------------ Soccermen Face Champlain After Losing Close One By Graham Martin Last Saturday on Council Field the RPI soccer team confirmed their initial victory over Union College of a month ago by winning again by three to one. Neither side played its best game and this was most noticeable in the second half, when the punch and drive so necessary to any game v.ere entirely lacking. The first half was characterized by remarkably even exchange of play; the Garnet team sometimes had trouble in coordinating the full- back and halfback lines, of which fault their opponents were quick to take advantage. But the ·half time score of one to one gave a very fair idea of the play. RPI's goal was from a penalty; and Canez scored for Union in open play. The second half, however, saw the game fall off very badly and the scoring of two goals by RPI put an end to any chance of Union winning. Taken bY itself the match is re- grettably another to be chalked up (Continued on Page 4) ul wish I could take you in my Navion plane over the big, new· factory Chesterfield is building at Durham, N.C. It's a honey. It will help supply the ever-increasing d~mand for the MILDER cigarette.\

HI. l:i. 'I 4 Scoreboard (Continued from Page 3) McLaughry said recently, \The fine record of the team can be attributed to two things: the excellent spirit of the boys, and the great coach- ing that Art has given them in the fundamentals and intricacies of line play.\ Backfield coach, Dick Balch and f.reshmen coach, Pete Nistad have also done commend- able work. * In order to clear up the bowl bid· rumor, Coach McLaughry stated, \I have not received any bowl bid, and if I do, I for one would dislike the whole project. I am not in- terested in it what so ever.\ .. High Lights on Union's Victory Over Middll'l:mry Union had 18 first downs com- pared to Middlebury's 4. . . . Left end, Tony Coppola, was out sick two days last week and still he played great ball Saturday. . . . The Panthers' total offense was 127 yards compared to 359 yards for Union. The average total offense. yardage per game the oppu::;ition gained against Union up to last Saturday, was 144.5 yards. . Left end, Andy Westwood, provided that spark the Dutchmen needed to stay in the game, when he caught 2 passes in a period of five minutes in the second quarter. . . . Center Ken Whalen ought to be picked on all of the all-star small college teams in the east for his play this year. . . . The Union locker room was a bowl of happi- ness after the game. . . . John Corbisero, Middlebury back, lived up to his press notices. He played great ball all afternoon. . . . .Coach McLaughry thinks the team pl'l.yed excellent ball. . . . The most de- jected man at Union after the game was Coach \Duke\ Nelson of Middlebury. . . . Many old Union football heroes, such as Joe Milano and Ralph Semerad, were all smiles after the game. ----a---- From Greener Fields (Continued tram Page 2) began an important announcement to the Rtndent body as follows: The dean of women at a certain \The Pr('sident of the university and I have decided to stop necking on campus.\ Weslyan A1·gus-Beta Beset By Body Beautiful: Hollywood, in the beautiful form of movie actress Joan Blondell, de- scended upon Beta's cocktail party Saturday afternoon. Unknown to many of the brothers and guests, Miss Blondell attended the football game with her son, who is a Beta pledge at Amherst. Miss Blondell. making herself very much at home amid wide-eyed staring. partook of the cocktails and joined in the sing- ing for about thr·ee-quarters of an hour. Many of the guests required an extra cocktail to make sure that their eyes were not playing tricks. Cleaners and Dyers 633 State St. Shoe Rebullders 204 Union St. PHONE 6-3456 Call Ball and Ball Will Call NOTT RESTAURANT and BAR • Right Outside Green Gate WINES - LI9UORS and BEER GUERRA'S PHARMACY Fountain Prescriptions Sundries 600 Union St. Cor. Barrett St. FIUD:A, y,·· NQ'lEMBER: 12. '1948' - . .., -. -· - Gridders to Face Loose Ends... Cross Country by Campus News Hamilton Today only ~~~nt~:u~~u!r::d P;.~~t:·l show (I.P.) The more students date, the varsity recently rejected a student. of a railroad executive, \A college (Continued from Page 3) up poorly athletically speaking, but better g·rades they make, says Dr.' faculty rating plan prepared by a graduate should study just as har<:t Strauss to Jackson passes in the th Th 1 n .the rest of his liJle as he ¢lid in ey were lacking in everything· S. Harman Lowrie, Professor of· :student faculty group. e P a end zone •Spelled the ball game. .else that football stands for. Sociology at Bowling Green Uni- called for the students to l'ate their college, if not harder.\ A poor 8 yard kick by Whalen 11 l'b 1 a ts T 1 f th 1' · t th · A football game is never a p 1 ·cnic, versity, after studying 3,000 ques- instructors in a 1 era r · ypica o e rep .Jes o e gave the Middlebury eleven the ball h b · f tw lve th E 11 t 'i· · d put neither is it supposed to be an tionnaires tnad~;J out by students courses on t e · asts o · e ·were · ese: nro men· n e uca- on the Union 16 yard line el'l:rly in elimination contest. But eliminate on the campus. Students who, .criteria, with a grade scale from tional.institutions is encouraged :for the second qua};'ter. They racked d t b M' marry while in college have the 1 to 5. The results would have subJ'ects related to the employee's up. a first down on the five and seeme o . e !ddlebury's idea. h . II d Perhaps Duke Nelson found that approval of Dr. Eugene Link, Pro-. been tabulated mec amca Y an area of work, and part of the tui~ sct'lred on a four yard plunge by h h d b fessor of Sociology at the Uni- . revealed only to the instructor con-. tion is· paid upon satisfactory coni- Wend\ Forbes to draw first b'lood. e a . een practicing with the h t J . wrong sized football all week. In varsity of Denver. Hereby hangs .cerned in eac case, no repor pletion, All office· perscmne~ are In the second half the Garnet the tale·. ·going to the dean. e!ig·ible to .take night course having started to capitalize on their num- any event the Panthers pu!Ted. b f th f It every dirty angle ever thought of, Both the boy and girl should go Those mem ers o. e acu Y a bearing on their work. The com- erous first downs. They moved 75 hoping to put the Dutchmen off to college. This prevemts the man's who opposed the measure suggest- pany unde\rtakes to pay 50 percep.t yards to a sct'lre. fo!lowing a Mid- the field one by t'lne. intellectual development from get-· ed that the students might conduct of the tuition. dlebury punt. Hal Lundsttom dl'Ove ting too far ahead of his wife's .. a poll. The dean, who 'favored the The ancient adage that under- 30 yards to the Panther 20 to set But the final 14-7 scm,e, in One of the· great causes of ·dl'vorce ~, or 1 ·g 1 'nal. plan, expressed doubt as d t d r the happi st · the sta<>e for the first st t ·Union's favor, would only seem to h .gra ua e · ays a e · e m '\\ rauss o is too great an educational differ-: to the practical value of sue a life seem to have statistical Jackson scoring pass. Wade con- prove the old adage that \virtue ence between mates, Dr. Link move. He feared that a student strength. Next they want work and vered to tie the game 7-7. The triumphs.'' * * maintains. A man who doesn't conducted poll would degenerate study on. the ;;arne job. ·This might winning touchdo\\·n can1e in the * ca~e, to have his wife on hi's own into a popularity poll. be misconstruecl as poor dist-rlbu ... final quarter. when Forbes was It · · educ'tl'on ·level 16 • not r•eally mature... It was believed tha:t the rejected tion .. of labor., but apparently indu.·s- dropped 8 hort of a llrst down on IS mteresting to note the \' reverberat1'ons that are a · g· However, co-eds seem to ·profit·; plan might have provided a much try demands something extra. a fomth down fake kick pia<.·, and · · ·ppearm \ as a r·esult of the U · RPI · more .academically by assoc1\ation needed insight into the strength the Dutchmen took over on the 1 · 1 • · · n!On- l'IV- \ lry We'll' g t a b'll f RPI · with students than. the males. T. he and weakness of the faculty. own 41. A th1'rd down Strauss to \' · · e r rom · A r\can educators might do and they'll get a b1'll from· us The combinatt'on .of frequent dates and * * • me 1 · · · · · Brisson pass br·c>ught tl1e ball do\\'n · · : 11 to take a tip· f~om the c· ur whole idea of the ·r•t'valry s e t ·.high grades occurs more often. A recent survey on \cramming\ .we · · · · · •· · · - to the v1·~.·1·tor·.\ 3\- ''at··d 1 1 ·ne. Fou·t· · · e ms 0 ently popular com1\c bo· oks accord ~ \ be not to try and run up the h'gh .among women than men, and more· by Dr. David M. White of Bradley .r • · - P hn.·s lnt\t'. !'l. trn.tr\. \. nga 1 ·n con- ' 1 - t'ng to Dr• Dorothy Farth1'ng As ,. \ e::;t athletic ·core but rath r to t 1 y ·often among freshmen than upper' University, Peoria, Ill., reveals that · · · · · ' · - nected to Jackson in the end zone .. and ru·n tlpB the' h' h ·ted · classmen. an .average .of 87 percent crammed sistant Professor of Education at Wade converted to concll 1 de the lg es amage the University of Missouri. ·. Dr. . bill Play with fire and your bound Kindergarten pupils should not about six and one-half hours for scoring for the l'ternoon with t · t b d d •t · bo hatched until after schooling is each final examination. Findings Farthing observes that \Comic Union on top 14-7, to gt\••e' them o ge urne ' so on gripe if you b k ch t f th ' are assessed for damages even 1 'f finished, the gentlemen advise. If .were based on a survey of 10 .per-. 00 s are so mu a par ·o . e their fou1·th st1·a1'ght w 1 ·n and a · ' · d' d\·et f o g Am · you had no .part in the actual adequate nursery schools can be ·cent of Bradley's enrollment, rea mg 1 0 Y un · er10ans season record of six out of s-even .. raiding. set up on college campuses to free . Since the psychological effect of that it is foolish to rail at them The Dutchmen outrushed the It b · t te b t I' mothers to take courses, the situa- cramming seems to help the vet~ with amused disdain.\ Panthers 259 to 127 yal·ds on the may e tn poor as ' u m forced to say \I told you so.\ tion is readily solved. Too long a eran student as much as the actual Rather than allow comic books ground, and the Garnet netted 92 0 delay in having children might additional .facts he picks up, Dr. to remain as mere sources of irrita- yuds in the ait· by completing cause difficulty in parents adjust-. Whit~;! believes that the con:oection tion·, Dr. Farthing encourages sev-en out of eighteen passes. Mid- · Booters Lose to ing themselves to the offspring. between D-Day, H-Hour stimuli are American teachers to .seek the rea- dlebury failed to connect on any It is assumed that a iarge num- very similarly directed· to class- son for their appeal and to dis'.. of their six aerial attempts. Rensselaer 1 3-1 ber of Union students wlio went room contests. cover hints for vitalizing classroom Probable starting line-ups: overboard during Prom weekend * \' ·discussion. t;xru:-; IlA~IILTl>:'\ \Continued from Page 3) '11 b f.· tl d b thi B · d · d t t th D F th' d'd t d h < nppoln 1. K H. llilfiw.~··r WI e atn y encourage · y s usmess an m us ry expec . e r. ar . mg 1 no raw er ~hha L.T. n. Hil.fing,. 1 • on an already too large debit side; notice. college graduate to continue study-: declaration-into the field of racy :-;t.'aff<'1' L.< ;. Smill<~tein but in comparison with the first \' * * ing evenings whife he is employed, novels and perverted philosophical \\ hnl<m C Frv :'_lwrw.in n:i·. !\'•1tlal game it makes a more cheering pic- The faculty of the college of according to browsing .by North- writings, but the conclusion;; might len. I·,yd, n r.. Hn te~ ture. As the RPI captain himself Liberal Arts of Washington Uni- western University. In the words well be deduced. I.lu~nw ILE. l'l<>ment~ said to me, \Keep on improving at :--~~ntuHM U H. \\\arT~n th t \; arle 1. II. lli , ;r<>gorio e ra e you are now and you'll lot·~t JUl. Thormun knock sp.Qts off us.\ A consolatic·n Luu.btrnm F H. \\'illi:.un~ prize, maybe, put nevertheless the ----o---- statement has its truth. U 1m defeated Harriers t C'ontinucd from Page 3) man were running together. By the end of three miles it was ap- parent that Newman was going to be the individual winner, as he had pulled ahead of Belanger bv 15 seconds, and Garlock had dropped back about fifty yards be- hind Belanger. ThP team as a whole was considerably under its form of the previous week against the Ephmen, and a high wind and poor footing wer!' probably decid- ing factors in favot· of the slower time. The Gamet reRched its pPak in the Williams meet when three men, Belanger, Gc>.rlock and Don ·wright, ran under 27 minutes, in the fast- est race ever to be run over the home course. The undefeated har- riers have shown exceptional bal- ance all season, and are expected to exhibit this same form Monday when the seven men responsible, Belanger, Garlock, Wright, Culver, Lakshin, Steigert, and Mac Coun carry the Garnet colors in New York. The Union freshmen had an easy time in defeating the ;\Tiddlebury Frosh by 15--16 in the preliminary last Saturday. McCormick, Nird- linger, V.'right. Brown and Cohn of Union captured the first five places. FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 19ll ~~~~~~?~~ II 166 Jay Street II The next game tomorrow is . against Champlain who won three weeks ago three to two after extra timE>. So come up to the Council Field any time after 2 p.m. and see if the improvement' is good enough to do the trick this time. Previews and Reviews LAST WEEK l'nion ...... It Hamilton ... Ul Rl'l ........ 27 st. La\ r'nre It :VHmont .... U Wcsle)an ... 2~ )licld!Pbury 7 llobll.l't ..... 0 Clat·kson ... 0 N~rwlell .... 0 R~rllestei' .. H Williams .... 7 THIS WEEK liet!Jslmrg at St. Lawrence I 'uion at Hamilton Jliddlebury at Vernwnt Rl'l at Coast Guard W llliams at Amherst Oark•un at Rochester Snmpson at Hobart FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 1115 BARRiTT STRUT SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY SlREEl GAZETTE PRESS Printers o-r.~ ....... -·· -- ... ~.. . ••• ¥< --~· .... _.. ~.1 Vex.t-To-New Shop The Next-to-New shop, a non- profit store operated by the Sche- nectady Junior League, offers Union students bargains in cloth· ing of all kinds. The store is oper- . a ted to raise funds for the Cerebral Palsy School and the Schenectady Museum. It is located at 126 Bar- rett Street, near Liberty Street. Mrs. S. C. Meigher, public rela- tions chairman of the Schenectady Junior League points out that Union students and their wives should find many worthwhile bar- gains in the store's stock, includ- ing sweaters, suits, coats, tuxedos, \tails toys, and lamps. The items are nearly new, and all clean and in good condition. 01--- Oops! \We'll have to rehearse that,\ said the undertaker as the coffin fell out of the car. Prom Round-Up Nearly a thousand persons found their W31Y to the Gridiron Ball last Friday to be pleasantly surprised at sweet strains from Duke .Elling- ton. The prom was also a stand- out in that it made a prqfit. A perennially effective decoration of football players and pigskins transformed the gymnasium into a ballroom, replete with several hun- dred ballo.Qns. Paul H<>chuli was the student in charge of the oper- ation. Union college broadcasted the Duke on a nationwide network for half an hour, when all request num- bers were honored. While a festive air was much in evidence, inebri- ate·s were remarkably few. Listen to •• , CAMPUS NEWS WRUC 7:15 p.m. Mon. thru Fii. Local Perfm·ms Local 85 of the American Federa- tion of Musicians, in conjunction with the Adult Education Program, presented the second of a series of cooperative evening assemblies in the Union College Memorial Chapel at 8:00 Wednesday evening. The orchestra was conducted by Ed- wa.rd· Rice. The next program in the present musical series will be held on Wednesday, December 15, when the Schenectady Choral Society will present Christmas music. a---- Balch on T1·ip Richard L. Balch, assistant di- rector of admissions, will ·begin a trip to high schools of western New Yorlr State Monday. Balch will speak to high school students on colleges in general. He will discuss matters students planning to ·enter coUege next fall should !mow, such as filing · applications and examinations. As far as is known members of the Delphic So- ciety probably will not accompany Balch on this trip. He will return to the campus December 3. General Electric Is not ana business, but an organization of many businesses, offering opportunities in virtually all the professions. Here three G •E men brief the career possibilities for the technical ·graduate, the mechanical engineer, and the chemical engineer, TECHNICAL SP!iC:IAI.ISTS: MEET YOUR HOST ~· M. Boring (Colorado), manager of the Tech· ntcal Personnel Division: It's my job to contact young men who are interested in technical careers an~ start them through our training pro- grams. ~ts year we have hired more electricai ~echantcal and chemical engineers, more chem: Ists and physicists, than ever before, --~-~-----------------~--~ MECHANICAL ENGINEER H. P. Kuehni, of the General Engineering and Cons~lting Laboratory: Much of my work has to d? With ~uch hurry-up calculating machines as the ddferenttal anaylzer. For the engineer with a bent toward mathematics, such machines offer exciting possibilities ~n problems whose complexities have heretofore discouraged study; I C~EMICAL ENGINEER 'Gtl Bahn (Columbia), graduate of the G-E Ad vanced Scientific Program: A graduate of thi; program. wonders which of the company's diverse fields offers the. greatest opportunity My ch . 1 • • • otce ;as. p. asttcs, . particularly the manufacture of syn• ettc ph~nol~ an~ I'm convinced it's. one of th~ ~ost fasc10at1ng Jobs I could find, for further inlorniillion ahout a BUSINESS CAREER with .G I •t • . s 11 d enera ,. ectrJC write Busines Ji • • c c enecta r-a career in TICHNICAL FIILDS • 1 r; h • ' . . s tnmmg ourse; G E N E R A L ~ acEml~PCsini i~sion, Schenectady, N. r. Vol. 76, DJ T( The f m.adeJ)l ment oj be ape on mat' expandj A .Jli.en whereby the fact: ministra1 The pers tee is as From Pemrick, Waite 1 council Nestle, < manager The a· ·charles waud F.' Graduat. A. Wyat tions. Presid C .. Willi Van de 0-3VelopD adminis1 The f, be anno The set· from ea The f will be vey of iodicall~ on hoy These forward which v de Car feeli!lg. cause c resenta1 great Y. adminis possible lated b: Needt conside a new tory. T already board· ·ferred tions il more f The I and st Union ·sevent) lost th College house.] campu: develo1 since i other 1 Whil camp a stu den Mr. V sideral by thl John He fu per d~ $25, i~ cent$ over 1 for th \Un' facilit si01i. ~ contitJ it is moria a usaf men~ in se1 Wh Pbu Dr. f!;lSSOl wlll Club Ketz ih tl is h. Nigh eight Th ing l gaml to tl:

lege 1ar<;L 1 in tM !lCa- l for ree's tui~ lorn- are ving )Om- cent cder- :t in tical and eight ~Ibu­ .dus- do cur- ~ord­ As- 1. .at Dr. )ffiiC the cans hem oaks rita- ages rea- dis: ·oom her racy :J.ica:l Light lera- )tiop. ram, !s of s in cape! The Ed- :sent on t the will ; di- in a :tern :alch tents will ning .auld :ions .s is : So- pany turn Founded at Union College_in 1877 Vol. 76, No. 10 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRiDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1948 P.RICE 10 CENTS J:>.r~ve Committeel7'o Take Dance Poll/Dutchme~ Climax To'l Be .Permanent ,,n:.~\:!':r~!\;;~·T~~n~\t'of::r Outstanding year The forlriatio11 of a Union Co11Ei)ge planning committee was made public by President Carter Davidson with the announce- rnen.t of its mem:b~rsh~p and purpose. The committee is to be a permanent body that will advise the board of trustees on matters concerning long range plans for developing and expanding }he college physical plant. . • From Groups A. .:trlember.ship has been devised. p· ro· J·,ect N· .eed whereby the· students, the alumni, the faculty 1J,nd the college ad-. c • d the regular chapel program, Monday, to find the answers to these two questions, according to Peter Bullis, social chairman of the council. · The spring prom will follow within two months of the winter ,prom, and some sources ·have expressed the opinjon. that it would be wise to omit the winter one. Others, who do not feel that they can afford: to .pay the high prices required for attendance at a farma1, have ·expressed--the desire for an informa:! dance at low price. If the students should decide Monday to have an informal dance, it is possible that a masquerade might .be given. The com- mittee is open to other suggestions for an informal dance. This questionnaire Mond§:Y will give those dissenters a ·chance to ex- press their opinions. Coach John Loughry has been .promoted from assistant professor of physical education, according to an announcement release! by President Cwrter Davidson Wednesday. As a climax to the most successful football season in nine years, Coach McLaughry's spirited and dynamic Dutch- man gridders pushed riyal Hamilton College all over \jinxed\ Steuben Field at Clinton last Saturday to win by 25-7, and in so doing racked up a brilliantly earned 7-1 record for 1948. ~ Union Grad The Bells Silent chapel bells at Clinton, ministration will all have .a voice ... . I·te . E· ar· }. y· The personncl.\ now on the commit- tee is as follows: · From t):J.e student body, James The Union College field house for Pemrick, student counc~l president; 'which funds are currently being W a 1 t e r De;~ ran, inter-fraternity ga,thered, far from being a hastily council President; and Ralph conceived project, represents the Nestle, chairman of the board of: considered opinion of two ooUege The Concordiensis has received several ver:bal complaints about the inability of those informally attired to get into the Gridiron Bajl held recently. .Apparently :before the war both formal and informal dress were allowable at the proms. · · AtomSmasher which traditionally peal forth mer- riment when Ha:r:nilton is victorious over Union, were notedly silent Saturday evening; and tb,e power of the ·~_glass-grinding\ Garne! grid machine had been felt for the seventh and final time as it ground up a jinx. administrations. managers. A 25 year old Union College graduate is building an atom- smashing betatron at the Univer- sity of Cincinnati. The youthful scientist, . Francis Jankowski of· Tribes Hill, N. Y., received his bachelor of science degree in civil The alumni are represented by. More than a decade ago, Presi- 'Charles Waldron, class of '06; Ed- de~t Dixon Ryan Fox made several war,d F.\ Henley, preside]l~ of the recommendations for expanding Graduate Council; and Frederick .the college physical plant. The need A. Wyatt, director of Alumni Rela- for improved athletic facilities was tions. Second in his list. Since th«;!n, favor~ Rehearsals to Begin; Martin Cast in Lead · engineering at Union in 1943. able opinion has slowly crystalli~ed . '® With rehearsals far adv;anced President Carter Davidson, Dean into .co~viction 'until, in the last H 1 h T k B k and the dates of production· de- C.. William Huntley, and Harold two years, an active iny~stigation ea t . a es . ac finitely scheduled, the cast of the Van de Car, director of financia-l was made of the possibility of se- . • • ·forthcoming Mountebanks produc- a.avelopment, constitute the college cu:in_g a . government field house Seat Ill X-·ray Drl. ve· ' tion, \The Petrified Forest\ by Rob- administ:l'ation membership. bmldmg from army surplus. · ert Sherwood, has bee announced. The faculty representatives will Early in 1947, the coHege put in Ignoring the fact that TB takes c. Graham Martin, the St. An· be announced in the neai: future. a· request to the U. s. government its· greatest toll among people of drews exchange student, has been The set-up calls for one professor for a field house, and was informed thei·r own ages, some 1600 of the sel~ct:ed to pprtray the leading from each division to be selected. that the only buildings available 2000 persons on campus have failed· character and supporting him will Rmming Survey were several warehouses and a to have their x-,ay picture,s taken, i b Beill Van Ost, Hugh Wisoff, Dick camp theater. Theodore Mcllwalne, Dr. Arony, the college physic an re- Gillis, Mort Silverman, .Art Kean, The function of the committee assistant comptroller, traveled to ported·. Of the .400 who di_d take Winnie Farrell, Rai Kunkelman, will be to maintain a ·running s·ur- Camp Shanks to find the .affered advant·age of thls free service, 105 Joe Vinick, Jack Imrie, Jackie vey of college needs and to per- buildings totally inadequate. How~ were the .wives of faculty or ad- Cadan, John Sigsbee, AI Siesel, Bill iodically draw up recommendations ever, the building that houses the ministration members. Herr.man, Jack Arkley, Ben Ross, on hoy these needs should be met. present library annex was secured. Dr. A.ron.y expressed amazement Gene Underwood, Dick Bode, Paul These recommend•ations will be A. rumor· that the· college had re- at the undergraduates liberties Madison, and Hugh Mol).tgomery. forwarded to the board of Trustees. cently received an offe·r from the with his health. The treatment of which will pass on them. Mr. Van government for an inexpensive field TB can take months and even The play will be presented Wed- de Car hal3 express!!d himself .as house was emphatically denied by years in bed, a . fact which has· nesday through S-aturday, Decem- feeling. that this organization, be- the president. Investigating in- been well publicized. Yet one of ber 8-11 at 8:30 P.M. in Hanna cause of its permanent and rep- f.armatfon that several field house the best means by which the disease \'HaJJ. Students may obtain tickets resentative nature, will prove of ·structures were available at the can be diagnosed in Its earliest' at the box office ·by presenting their great value in keeping the college former naval training' base at stages and which will cut down the student activities cards, while administration aware of avenues of Sampson, N. Y., the .college found le~gth . Qf treatment appreciably is· others may acquire tickets by pay- possible improvement, as fm,'mU- that U. s. authorities had frozen bemg 1gnored by 20% of the en- ing the fee of $1.20 tax included. lated by a responsible group. the disposal of any further build- tire c;ollege population. Jackson D:;tvis, Director of the Needs that the new committe will ings of that type. It was found Dr. A.rony emphasized that a per- Mountebanks, has announced that consider in future meetings include that Middlebury college had pro- son of college age should be tryouts for the next production, a new library and a new dorini- cured a field house along with X-rayed at least twice a year. If Shakespeare's \The Merchant of tory. The latter project has been bhe problem of tradsportation to such pict':r:s were taken by pri- Venice,\ will be held Mond·ay thru already favorably passed on by the its campus without Federal aid. vate physicians, the cost. would be Wednesday, November 29-Decem- board· of trustees who have de- Francfs Pray, of Union public re- 10 to 15 dollars. each piCtUJCe. Dr. ber 1. Try-out times a.re; Monday ferred <:onstruction until condi- lations, notes that Middlebury had Arony also menboned the fact. that 4:30-6:00 and 7:00-7:30, Tuesday tions in the materials market are $450,000 available for the project many graduate schools reqmre .a 3:00-El,:OO and 7:00-7:30, and Wed- more favorable. of rebuilding and altering the recent chest X-Ray as part of thelr nesday 4 ;30-6:00 and 7:00-7:30. The Tl;le field house drive was begun. structure they secured. physica} exami~!ltions. prelimln~J.ry try-outs will be mainly and sponsorl)d by the alumni of o ln orderf to get dmore complete for voice quality and .all those in- u . cover!J,ge o the ·stu ents the num- terested ~re asked to go to the nion as a .memc;~rial for the M. k N B tt b · d b - \seventy-six Union students who ar S 0 e er er of ·ays has een extended Lib r a r Y w h ere mimeographed lost their lives in World War II. until Monday, November 22 · The sheets will be available for reading. C Figures issued by the Registrar's pictures will be taken at the City allege authorities agree the field H J s Folio ·n th f office for t.he .first marking period all on ay · treet, across the Wl g e success o the first house .project, much ,needed on the· t two fil th M t b k · this year compare favorably with s reet from the main post office. ms, · e oun e an s have campus, does not push any other I d th those issued for the similar period The hours are 9:30 to 1:30 and a so announce e names of some development into the background. last year. The total student body 2:30 to 4:30 daily and 9:30 to 12:00 of the future showings. November since it is ·entirely separate from s d 29 d 30 h b numbers 1490 0 · last year, 1484. Of on atur ay. It is recommended an ave een set for the oth. er building plans. t h · \F the toW!'l, 28 are on the Dean's hat students have their X-Rays s owmg of orgotten Village,\ While speaking of the current list with s five-point men and 100 taken before Monday to avoid the and in succe.eding week~> ''Brief campaign on the campus to solicit h f t E t \ \N are on scholarship warning; last rus o s enographers from the ncoun er, othing Sacred,\ student aid for the field house, Ge 1 I c \Th Mr. Van de Oar noted that con- year there were 2!57 on the Dean's nera ce Cream ompany who . e Overlanders,\ \Destry ,Rides · · team with 9 five-pointers and 116 are scheduled to have their chests Again\ an \Seventh Veil\ will be siderable progress is being made X R d th - b on scholarship warning. - aye , en. shown. Y the commitf~ ·of 200, led by F.allowing three years in the air force as a pilot, he was assigned the job of drawing up and building the betatron. He is doing much of the actual building himself, using war surplus materials worth less than $2000. The betatron, when completed, will be valued at nearly $200,000. This instrument is one of less than a dozen of such size being used for nuclear research. In planning and building, Jan- kowski has made improvements ove·r other betatrons, and for this he was awarded a master of science degree at the university in 1947. Jankowski also did research at the Argonne Laboratory in Chicago in order to get experience in nuclear physics. While there he developed an accurate method of measuring the intensities of· the neutron beams used in atomic energy study and in the A-bomb .. For this work Jankowski will re- ceive a doctor of science degree next June. WRUCtobeSanta WRUC will assume the warm and padded form of Santa Claus to a group of Schenectady's under- privileged children, when they act as host at the Children's Home on December 15. This party is de- signed to bring to these children ·some of the breathless joy associ- ated with Christmas celebrations in happy homes, and will provide en- tertainment, refreshments and pres- e~ts, appropriately given by Santa himself. In addition, wRUC hopes that every member of the college con:!.- munity will co-operate by bringing toys, books, gaxnes, and other ar- ticles, outgrown by them or their brother\' ~J,pq sisters, which would be of use to these institutionalized children, whose ages run from 6 to 16, to the radio station, where they will be aollected and distributed. Students Consider 'Human Situation' in Bull Sessions; Are Startled .by Poser ''What Now, Educated Man?'' Throughout the season the grid- ders showed a remarkable team spirit, and this combined with the excellent coaching of John Mc- Laughry, Arthur Lawrence, and Richard Balch resulted in the best record since the 1939 undefeated season. Despite the fact that the Dutchmen were upset by the un- derdog T,Jniversity of Vermont Catamounts in a hard fought game early in the season, they ca.me back fighting to win their next five games in a row. The highlight of success was the shattering of pre- viously undefeated Middlebury Col- lege's Glass Bowl hopes in the most exciting and well played game of the season on Alexander Field._ The Garnet Line The Garnet was undefeated, as far as statistics are concerned, in compiling one of the best college defensive records in the country by limiting their opponents to an aver- age of 83.5 yards gained rushing jn all games. The stalwart and hard- charging Union line, probably one of the best in the history of the sc):wol, was built on a solid founda- tion of spirit and composed of the stuff that makes a footba!I squad gr£at. Offensively, the Dutchmen dis- played a sparkling array of back- field talent, and operating out of a well trained T-formation succeeded in completely baffling their op- ponents by the most beautiful bit of faking and ball handling ever witnessed on Alexander Field. The Union gridders scored 163 points compared to 54 for all eight opponents .. Five Men To Be Lost With only five men, two regulars and three· reserves; being lost due to graduation, all indications point to another standout season in 1949, Sorely missed, however, will be the services of Co-Captains Kenneth Whalen and Anthony Coppola, center and end respectiVely in the impregnable line, Whalen has been the guiding spirit and standout de- fensively aU season, and his ex- cellent kicking kept the Garnet out of plenty of trouble. He is called by many the best center in the school's history. Coppola, by his brimant defensive play, especially in the last few games of the season, John Hanna, student chairman. He further stated that the cost per d·ay to a stUdent who pledges $25, is less han four and a half cents when t!J.e amount is spread over the 20 months time allotted for the fulfilling Qf pledges. · \Union is. now sadly lacking the f~cilities neqessary for the expan- SlOn and improvement of sports,\ continued Mr. Van de Car \and it .is .doubly fitting that the Me- morial Field House will represent a usefUl, living tribute to the Union men who have saorificed their lives in service. \What Now, Educ::ated Man?\ Is~ was an individual example of spirit the problem being' considered this people of a nation and better race emphasized the importance of each follow the crowd. We must be and power. The reserves lost will week in a Conference on the Hu- relations. Dr. Henderson said there human being having a purpose in open minded and not seek our goal be John Brisson and Andrew West- . . . . . is much restlessness today among life and knowing how to deal with blindly or selfishly. We '!!lUSt not wood, two ends who saw ·plenty of man Sltuabon sponsored by the the less privileged people of the his fellows. What a man is, said be entirely materialistic or in tel- action and played bang up ~ball all Student Life Committee of the. world. We may very well be living Dr. Searles, is a question which can lectual in our pursuits, but rather season, and Philip Brady Who aided Board of Chapel Associates. The in a. period of world revolution, a only be answered by the individual achieve satisfaction in strivlp.g for the team con~iderably by his fine Rev. Robert W. Searle, D.D., Pi- situation not generally recognized in regard to his own case. Men a spiritual goal which only the sportsmanship. These men should rector of Community Relations· by those generations during whose are \complex forms of creation,\· individual can find for himself. serve as a shining example to all '• and Secretary of the Human Re- lives it occurs. . ___ who have completely individual Seminars were held each after- future athletes at Union. W. . ives To Hear Wainger: lations Commission of the Protest- To bring people closer together, Personalities. Although we can noon, Tuesday through Friday, in On the brighter side of the pic- , . ant Council of the City of New the speaker recomp.1ended the never find a precise answer to the which various aspects of the hu- ture, all of this year's backfield, Plan Gala Gambling Nife York, is mOderator. study of the language,r, cultures question of who we are, religion man situation were discussed by which was led by the excellent The conterence opened on 'l;'ues-. and scientific contributions of the will help us to lear:P. and lead us~ guest panels. Also included in the passing and ball handling of David Dr. Max Wainger .ASsociate Pro- day, November 16, with an address . various :r1ations. College students, on the way to that \•perfection 'conference program were a Free- Stra1,1ss in the quarterback slot, fessor of .English at U:r1ion College . during daily assembly by DJ:. Alga said Dr. Henderson, should make which is the ·goal of life.\ dom Forum Tuesday evening, a aild the fine '!Ill around play of will adciress the Students Wive$ Henderson, associate commissioner more use• of college activities to Having found our relationship to. dinner-smoker in Hale House Wed- George Best, Harold Lundstrom, Club at the ·home of Mrs. Wilfred of education of the State of New learn how to work together in a life, we must set out toward some nesday evening, dormitory bull Alfred Wade, George Morrow, Rob- Ketz December 1, at eight o'clock York. Speaking' on t'ile subject Cl.emoc:;ratic manner, and the stu- goal. Frustration comes from not ·sessions Wednesday evening, and a ert , Fletcher, Richard Speidel, iil the evening. The Wives Club· \Educating for Better Human Re· . dent bodies shoUld be more repre- knowing. who we are, Dr. ;:learles. \Dutch Treat\ luncheon Thursday Charles Snow, Gardner Wittner, is· having its annual \Gambling lations,\ Dr. Henderson st!i.ted that 'Sentative of all .parts of the popu~ saiq, while aimless drifting through. in Silliman Hall. The conference ·and Peter Del Santo, will return. Night\ today in Dewey Hall at. human relations is the foremost latlon. life results from not having a pur-, will be concluded by a luncheon Back in the line will be such stal- eight o'clock, aiso. problem of our timjlS· He listed On Wednesday, Dr. Searles be- pose. As· we grow older, each for the Board of Chapel Associ- warts -as guards and tackles Caryie The \Gambiing Night\ is featur•. the three essentials of human re- gan a three part daily assembly year finds us different from what ates and Liaison Committee in Sherwin, Harold Shaffer, Charles ing false currency for the vadous lations as worldwide understanding series on i'Whd Am I?\ \What Do we were a year ago. Many people Silliman Hali at 12:00 on Saturdey, Abba, John Weiss; Peter Ten Ey~k, games. prizes .are being awarded' between people, a better :under- I Want?\ and \How Do I Get It?\ are forever hoping but never ac- and a conference for student lea(j.- M!lto:r1 Mllls, and ends Armand to th~· winnera. standing of each other a~ong.the In his first two talks, Dr. Searle .tively seeking, and others me!ely ers at Tippicanoe on Sunday. Busino and Shelton Jackson.

2 \ FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1948 ' The Reader Writes 8y ]ames---.Baar Q.lnu.rnr The Happy Hour Dear Sir: ' can it be doubt!;!d that whimsey Do you suppose that the student body realizes Por· onc·e the 24-houN per day the fate of the alphabet agency was 1 b · Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Cui!Pg!ate Digest. National Adver- tising Representati\·e: Na· tiona! Advertising Servic~. Inc., College Publi,.hds Representative. 420 !\1a<li· son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College, PUb- !ic:~t!on Offlre, The Ga- zette Press, 334 Sta-te St. Entered -in the Schenec· tally Post Office as Sec- ond Class :\!ail Matter, sub•cription lOc a copy: $~ )'ear: delivered any- \\ht•ie i'r1 the t!niteU States. \'· • · w!ll play a larger ro e, an ·O vwus that every Union College student is required to alert ·students of public trends, settled forever. it example being a Birth Education attend chapel some Forty odd times per semester , have really missed the ever saili_ng Accepting all of this though, th t d oes not Department. and see the college flag displayed upsidedown. In boat on the biggest thing to hi:s is important a one . a State of bored observation, I remain this country since hot jazz. I speak, jump to the erroneous· conclusron Passing thro·ugh this phase with Yours very truly, of course, o-f the new method of that AHW moved directly into the ever increasing momentum the BILL MOTT '51 tabbing ·organizations, campaigns,· limelight, for there is one step be- complex will reach, i:ts .probable ------~~~--~---- ---------- and the like with nicknames de- tween that and the downfall of the climax in the developll,lent of whole rived from the first letters of their alphabet boys. This is th~ no~- ; sentences com,posed of nickname Yea1· round tennis courts \'\'ill be provided formal title, which in turn spell a. sense word which, appearmg 1n words with original meanings. for the benefit of the team. At present, there significant catch word . .A perfect many isola'ted instances i~ the· Nouns, verbs, prepo·sitions, adjec- . h' · · d reat prommence tr'ves. a_ nd adverbs, all nicknames are adequate tennis fac1.Jities but the un- example of this is the giant Euro- . t 1rties, game .g. pean aid drive, the Cooperative during the war years. . for formally titled orgll,nizations, George T. Orlek ................................. Editor James Baar ........................... Associate Editor Albert Corbo ........ , ................ :Uanaglng -Editor predictable Scheneetady weather pl'events American Remittances to Europe,., Succinctly, the nonsense word 1s; will be ingeniously combined into consistent practice. Faci.Jities will be pro- which also goes under th.e appro- formed by the grouping of t~e fi.rst sentences ·according to fields or vided for fundamental drills, shooting prac- priate sobriquet of CARE.' get it? letters of the formal organization .. some other classification. No long- ! t th t f I m Pr . on ounce- er w1'l·l a statement such as \Father . tice, and conditioning for the varsity basket- TJ1e impo!l'tant point, which can. tit e oge er o o · a . b ll d Y d f Tt' '11 b easily be noted in this business, is able, but previously meanmgless, please come home\ mean simply a squa . ear roun ac1 1 leS Wl e pro- that the whole thing is no fly-by- word. To cite only two excellent what it says, Such a groupitlJg .of James lllunay ............................ News Editor Uerbert Saxe ..................... : • ..... Sports Etlltnr Robert Heinenuwn ........................ Photo Editor Francis Meehan. , . , . , , ............ Circulation }lanager Lambert Gln•b~rg ....•.............. Ruslnoss ~Ianager vided for varsity soccer. The cross country night promotion sch~me. It is, in examples: OBASCOM (Okinawa words could well stand .for four team will be able to practice in bad weathe1·. ·fact, something that has been with Base Commancil and AFWESPAC reJitted offices in the Bureau of All this sounds fine for the varsity men if the culture for some time now, and <Armed Forces Western Pacific) .. the Budget. · • CatTied out, but what about the average stu- something w!hich I believe will be It can clearly be seen .from t:his Prostitution of Nicknames '1\ith us ntore !llld more in the, that the nonsence word is the lmk dent who is not on a varsity team '? futW'e. The fact that Union has • between AHW and the AA's. This is as far as the methods of No More Generalities Mr. Van de Car claim~ that lockers will be · namf:d its foreign student scholar- realiable prediction can take u;;; . Simple · fut ther comment can be nothing provided to take care of the needs of the ship P\l'ngram HELP (Higher Edu- As to what can be seen in the more than mere speculation. Such student not in a varsity SP.Ol't and not a ~~:o~f f:~;s~~u!~C:.~ !~ ~~ . future for this trend, we mtg~t . speculation, however, does shed freshman required to take gym, who wants uniYersal the id!ea is 1l.nd how far . well briefly summarize the pas · considerable !Jght on the power on The erroneous story on the field house appearing in last week's issue has given rise to its just share of humor and criticism. The story played up certain weaknesses in the organization of the Concordiensis which have been cleared up since. A similar inci- dent will not occur again. t th 11 t ff d f lt Men began by taking the first posstbilities of AHW complex. 0 USe e gym as We aS S a an aCt! Y it has already gone. letters of formal 0 .rgani'zati'on titles · b f h ' 'd d t One hypothesis that caJ;J. be put mem ers, 01' W · Oin no space lS proVI e . a '38 Pealr Yoo.r to create nicknames (GPA, OPM, forth with a certain degnee of pre:;;ent. \Sufficient\ showers will be pro- . Although there are indications of ICC> : secondly, they manufactured· plausibility is that the fot'tnulation vided. Year round space will be provided for the phenomenon to be found much actual, though originally meaning- of sentences, which I have already all intramural competition. This will allow earlier in American history, the. less .words, from the same first descl'ibed as a certain result, could for an intramural tracl{ and field meet in- first true signs of what I call the letters of formal titles (AFWES- lead to the further inco·rporation Although the story was obviously false and may have partially discredited the field house drive, it has brought to the attention of the student body a renewed concern about the project. We think it time to reiterate our views on the field house campaign. AHW complex (Advertising Has PAC); and finally, they manu- .of the sentences int0 such verse· doors during the winter. \More\ equipment · Wonl was during the 1920's. It was factured words with original mean- forms as the limerick. will be provided for boxing and wrestling. at this time that the main root of ings from the letters. Unfortunately, this hypothesis is \Several\ volleyball courts will be provided. AHW appeared in full vigor, Actually, what has happened is ·an ope!ning foil'. w:eamers, who, Softball, which at present cannot be!!in until namely the alphabet organization that man. has done little in regard never leaving their ivor.y towers ~ or agency. 'il'he height of this in- to manufacturing the words in· the arrival.of daylight saving time, can start stitution's influence in the nation's step two and three; what he has ·and utopias, claim to forsee tloo earlier. (At present, approximately one, scheme was 1938. · done is to manipulate with an ever writing of whole sonnets and long- This week, l\Ir. Harold Van de Car, di- rector of financial development, prepared a letter to the Committee of 1000 entitled \Why Do We Need a Field House?\. It con- tains the first concrete evidence supporting the field house. It is worth looking into. . 1 f er p~ems. This, they beHev:e, is a hundred ten g·ames must be played 1'n twenty . I must augment this further for increasing degree the tlt es o .or- . 'fi d tt perfectly plansable developmeil.t days.) The reason for the late start results there are many who object to my ganizations to fit speC! e pa erns. from the limerick. selection of the year 1938 as the It is this manipulation of or- from conflicts with the varsity baseball, alphabet agency's peak. They point . g~anization titles to fit specific The fallacy here is ob~ious to track and lacrosse teams. out that any child can see the tre- fol11Ils that we can conelude to be any student of the subject. Such a In addition to benefittin2.' all intramural mendous increase in the use of the actual trend, and from this creation of advanced poetry from The letter is divided into two segments: one contains facts, figmes, and arguments · for the need of ten of the twelve varsity teams for added facilities; the other contains evidence which shows the dire need of the intra-mural program for better facilities. ~ AA's during, the second World conclusion we can, witlh a high words representing organizations sports, equipment and room will be provided War; they argue, and quite cor- ·degree of confidence, c~nclude what would force the prostitution of the for three additional sports: squash, handball· rectly, that there a1•e still literally will follow in the cooning ye~s. nicknames to art. Organizations and ping pong. hundreds .of such o-rganizations in Mor ad more .mani,pulation will be would be forced to bare ridiculous There is a real need for increased facili- existence today. the theme. titles in order to be nicknamed Naturally, I grant all of this. Even before the close of the pres- words which the poet desired to The two varsity sports which would not receive much benefit from the field house are football and baseball, because obviously greater space is needed. However, the other ten varsity sports will receive direct bene- fits, according to l\1r. Van de Car. A one- tenth mile cinder track with a fifty yard straightaway, will be installed in the field house to provide for varsity track practice in all kinds of weather. (The present up- stairs track is not properly built, although distance runners have to use it in bad weather. Practice in the gym is limited to sprinters practicing starts on the wood floor.) ties for our varsity and intramural sports; There can be no question as to the ent decade, we can expect to see include in a sonnet. Committees there is a real need for adequate space and counting abilities of those who dis- such organizations come into ex- from the State Department would equipment for every man on campus who agree with me. What they refuse istence, if for example price .con- find themselves grouped in a son- wants to use the gym. Mr. Van de Car says· to do or cannot do, however, is to trol is reinstated, as a HOLD net with agencies from the De- . take seriously the AHW complex, <Home Offensive to Lower Duties) partment of Agriculture because of that the f1eld house will alleviate these needs. which inade its first successful I or, finding this not quite suitable, 1 the poetic license that would be That is the main reason why the Concordien- drive for power in the late thir- a CLUTCH (Commission to Lower taken more and more fyequently sis is one hundred per cent behind the drive. ties. It was from that time on that Ultimate Top Costs at Home). Nor •(Continued on Page ~) We believe that sufficient cause has been shown for active support of the field house by all connected with the college, However, some are apt to withhold support until de- tailed plans are prepared to prove beyond all shadow of a doubt that the promises are not mere publicity talk. You liave come out with detailed rem~ons for a field house, Mr. Van de Car, now how about detailed plans for the project? A Bird's Eye View .A foreigner to the U. S. A. may every now and then someone would say many unpleasant things about ·talk to them menacingly and they the countr~; in fact he of.ten does, would then do something; and finally I could see that many other , but in the midst of all his criticism, people-usually off the field of however bitter, he seldom fails to play-were keenly interested in the pay one compliment: he cannot movement of the small ball. But withhold his tribute to that Ameri- \the rest\ to shamefully misquote, can of American characteristics, \was bedlam.\ By Gl'aham Martin I can only adroit that under such Rumor Column \It was reported today by per- sons close to high officials in the state capital that Governor Silas Q. Slackvest has been shot by an assassin who is believed to be a member of the notorious Jones Boys.\ This type of report comes out of almost every state and national capital every day. That the report is ridiculous or may have absolute- ly no basis of fact is incidentaL The wilder the story, the faster it is spread. This column is aimed at misuse and mishandling of fact. The treatment of material may not- always be serious sin()e much of the material itself is not too seri- ous. However, factual accuracy will be religiously maintained. In the last issue of The Con- cordiensis a story appeared which in short said that a number of seniors tl:).ought the diplomas were \not on a par with the character of the college.'' Since last Friday, the writer has hea!'d several peo- ple voice the opinion that they thought the typewritten diplomas given by the college were unspeak- ably bad. A brief journey into the sanctu- ary of bureaucracy on campus; to the office of the recorder, Miss Frances Travis, disclosed the fol- lowing startling information. The Union College diploma is not type- written. It !\,ctually costs the col- lege five dollars for each diploma and leather case. The diploma is actually printed on sheepskin of a size approximately six by nine inches. It really does have a col- lege seal, ·but no blue ribbons. By Robert N a vias Miss Travis patiently explainpd to the writer that the 15-dollar graduation fee cover the cost of diploma, printing . of commence- ment programs, alumni luncheon, expenses incurred with honorary chancellors; flowers and various · incidental expenses. The catalogues of several col~ leges in this area similar to Union College in size show the graduation fees to be about the .same. Sur- veying many <l-ther . catalogues shows graduation fees ranging from 10 to 30 dollars, with no in- dication in the cataJogue as to what is covered by that fee. Additional information regarding diplomas as to type face, ink, age and sex of sheep used might be obtainable from the printer. genius for organization. Well I As Saturday succeded Saturday am a foreigner; as such I see many however, the fog in my mind be- targets for criticism; as such I gan to clear; the pep rally, the will most certainly criticise; and cheer leaders, the spectators, the as such I will not dissapoint you band, the game itself, all these in the exception: for this, the first pieces .jn the mosaic gradually of my \impressions\, will concern assumed their relative places, and athletics at Union College. . d!ore and more certainly I saw a system, the proficiency of the game, the skill and health of the players, just does not touch the standards here: we don't play such good rugby as you play football. Further, my reaction to the ma- terial aspect 6f athletics here after the chaos at St. Andrews is one of pure unadulterated delight. But nevertheless, I put it to you: why does anyone play games? For ex- ercise? ,For the school? Social prestige? To sublimate his ag- gvessive impulses? Possibly all of these, but surely above all for fun, Anywhere you say, \But that's just it, we play to wfu.\-and look what · happens! Dirty play-such as you see only in pro-athletics at home- is not the worst; the fantastic R. P. I. rivalry-! can't thing of a more fatuo waster of time and money; athletic scholarships; the publicity need for a winning team; free substitution-where probably ten or twelve men will sit on the bench every game, unless the coach thinlts he has piled on enough points. hi a FREEMAN ~oe It seems tn1e that I have chosen. the m~tri:l!: in which they were all a good time for such a subject: bedded; Organization. Organization the football team has just finished :of· the competitive spirit, of the a victorious season; and the soccer ·spectators, of the very players. team has . • . well, just finished And if I turn to my own parti- tbe season! So I have experienced cipation, the same underlying both parts: the spectator and the \motif\ could be found in the new- player, both at first hand. Since ly formed soccer team: the coach, I \speculated\ befot•e I played, I the official practices, the uniforms, go back to September 25th when I the lockers, a manager, travelling saw my first American football expenses and most important of game. I do not intend to bore you all, substitution. To you, such in- with my amateurish reactions to the stances of \organization\ must be game. By now I have at least a trivial indeed; so I show you in vague idea of what goes on, thanks contrast the position in St. An- to those un£ortunates whom I drews. There I play rugby: we pestered mercilessly about the play. have no coach; practis·e through as they sat beside me watching pay for our own uniforms, travel- at home games. Then·, however, all ling expenses, visitors' meals; and I could definitely state was that we have no substitution. On this some people in unusual dress were last point, I must add that instead playing a game of sorts in which of one football squad, we have a small oval ball played a promi- four teams each with a fixture nent part: that two individual re- every Saturday, which means that ferees, I was told, had at least if you go out for rugby you deft- nominal control of' the game, i.e. nitely play one match every week. It matters that you do win. r suppose, but does it matter enough to discount these things which are so clearly contrary to · the whole idea of sports? In this country, it se·ems \Yes\, but I venture to state that in fact you will agree with me here and say \No\; and in this hope I conclude with a final question. \Does it matter a damn if you win as long as it's a good game?\ From Greener Fields By Alfred Siesel The Middlebury Campus, Middle-\' berry, and Middle-bury with a huge lunatic asylum.\ It was a perfect bury College: sledge hammer mushrooming this Saturday night for after the Union In Schenectady, at the little col- Middle-bury. That's exactly what game. The rain was coming down lege surrounded by an iron fence happened. To coin an expression, in angry fury as the Gods above and factories. all was happy and slightly G.I.ish, the boom was low- were obviously bewildered and per- gay. They had accomplished what ered on the \Powerless Panthers.\ turbed. On the bus, bouncing back they set out to do, to defeat the When the game ended, the T:Jnion from Schenectady, the dark-haired once \Mighty Men from Midd.\ faithful, drunk with power, were guy who had grown to be Midd's Duke Ellington was playing at the . screaming for the intangible thing fah·\haired boy was leading the victory dance and the campus was known to small colleges . with a singing. That 'vas rill he led, how- cleverly and colorfully decorated. better than average record, as the. ever, and if one were looking :l'or Effigies were constructed showing Glass Bowl. As the Mldd enthus- a convenie!).t alibi, he'd turn to the Midd-ship sinking and a unique lasts c·an testify, \The place where the \Dorchester Dart,\ shalte his thing· picturing a right berry, left optimism most flourishes is in the hea:d and mutter, \If only . . .'; The New Sl(JBO Another Fteeman \First\ • • • rugged year-round heavy-weight foot- gear • • • patterned after the fine ski-troop boots Freeman built for the Army. Plump Ski.Veal tops and double leather bottoms. OTHER FRBEMANS $9.95 to 19.95 NUSBAUM'S 0 . 447 STATE STREET \ FRIDAY. Ab~ line l'is on the Mu Soph La ere The sop! last Wee tuve thei inoship ; Sparked Jack GrE remarka' the soph by a 3-1 Bill Jl. .Tom :Wl: the undE Previo won th,E turned i the soph1 9-5. - .... I

the whole adjec- into ds or Iong- of four of ods of til'!; . Such shed on be put of , could verse is who, towers the long- is a to Such a from of the ired to tees would a son- he De- of be a vias cost of various· ral col- o Union Sur- ranging no in- as to ink, age be 5 FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 19~ 1948 The· Garnet Wall Mista·d Make'S Forecast; Harriers Twentieth in IC4A The Union College harriers finished 20th in the annual IC4'A cross country champion- ship meet at Van Cortlandt Park, in New York on November 15, with Don Wright turning in the best individual performance for the Dutchmen. Out of a field of 193, Wright finished 42nd, in 27 :20.4. The next Union Harrier to cross the line was Newt Culver who finished 91st. After two weel\s of practice sessions, basketball Coach Pete Nistad predicted that his squad should be able to hold its own against the teams within its own league; but the addition of four strong schools to the schedule gives promise of a busy yea;r for the ca:ge1·s. \I will be hapny if we win as many as we drop,\ Nistad expressed. In addition to rivals Vermont, Wesleyan, Hobart, Hamilton, -4> Midd•lebury, Colgate, and Trinity, In all fairness to the harriers rr==============i!i Army, Buffalo, Amherst, and · and their captain Ray Belanger it : Rochester loom on the schedule. Belanger Siclt ®------- is only fair to explain the un- l o Q s E E N D s Fortunately, five letter winners fortunate circum stan c e s that . · . · · from last year and 13 who com- caused the Garnet captain to fin- · • · prisE'd the varsity and freshmen . ish as .poorly as he did. Consist- by teams are back. · ently the top man for the squad Jim Pemrick and Bill Grant will throughout the first five dual I!==== Herb Saxe ===:!.1 co-captain this year's Garnet five. · meets, Belanger just had one of Shea at G feet 6 inches gives some those bad breaks that can happen Union's football coach did a nk(' hl'ight to the unit. In addition to at any time, but which we prefer conscientious job of dropping the· these three, monogram holders Ed Above is one reason wqy the -Garnet gl'idders were so successful . this p~st season. The whole to overlook. ,Suffering a severe case curtain on the '48 grid season at Henk and Dick Roberts are re- line l'ises up to put a stop to any ambitious. ideas• which. Jolill Cl!rbisero of ~ddlebury may have. In of nervous indigestion, the Garnet· last Monday's chapel program. The turning to action. on the tackle ai•e L-R: ;peter Ten Eyck,. Bud Mms, Cookie Sherwm, Jack We1ss and Parker. captain was just not up to his • bouquets handed out were straight The addition of five promislng ~~~~=~~~~=~=~=~~=~=~=~~~~~--~---~=--~------Mu~rM~~adReyb~n ~k~ furwudMdwillduen~.Ithlnk ~~hrn~ mey offut ilie fuu ~ M I . v . c· r.f•d • T k . n finish 100 places up from where he ' though, that it is five ft'Qffi' 1947-48. Most recent loss li an. e . . OICeS I on, I ence •n· an me .· did finish, and this was highly only fair to bring was Bill O'Neil, who will be unable b h ,.. probable in the light of his past out a m1ssmg to play because of an inJ'ury he . . · . ··· · ·~ Prospects heightened Y t e re-~· ·- · · · ·. . · · · b t r th . performanc.es, Coach• Bill Ketz feels ouque · n e susta1'ned last year . turn of 21 meh from last year s S • B tl h C .,. h f t· that the Garnet would have cer- edire speech S Op omoreS 1.nc swimming. team including seve_n 0CC6rl 9$ a e tainly finished in llth place, if not there was no This year's version of the Dutch- . lettermen, Coach Ray Mullane lS • r• t· f J h men crew will feature speed rather C h I t in the first ten. men 10n o o n Lacrosse T ·,t·le Cu:p looking forward to a mu~h im: . a·mp .. aln 0 a ·'e· Thiswasthelastseasonthatthe. McLaughry, the than height. Besides Shea, Nistad 1 · proved season over last year s four . . h h will have 6 foot 3 inch Pemrick P lucky Belanger would be with the· one man w o as. and five record. Last Saturday on Council Field, d and Dom Petrone and Ed Patton th h harriers. As captain this year, Ray one the most to The sophomore class came roug Only three men have been lost Union College in. a return s.occer · u · h at 6 feet 2 inches to oontrol the last W ednesday afterno~n to cap- from· last y· ear's squad and this . ga.m.e drew 2-2 With Champlam. has been a conscientious and cap- gJve mofnl su~d· · backboards. able leader, as well as an inspira- a success u gr1 , tuve theintramural lacrosse champ- may be offset by the addition of · The match was played in condi- tion to the other members of the season. By their Nistad has changed. his system inoship and the Class of '87 Cup. three men from the freshn;len team· tio:tJ.s far from ideal: A thunder- . squad. Hi's graduation will be a own admission, of offense to suit his speedy group. k f of last year. Heading the list of storm during the first quarter serl'ous 1 · 0 . ss to the squ. ad. there is no out- Sophomo·res like Cookie Sherwin Sparked by the brpliant wor ° C t 'n t d f th fi ld · t D' k S 'd I · I dd h returning lettermen are · ap a1 urned one en - o e e m o. Fast Field standing ball player on the Garnet· and 1c pm e w1l a muc Jack Greve in the golie slot, who's Harry Kuniholm, former Captain a quagmire, and the slippery squad. r feel that their outstand- aggressivness to the cagers. d th d · h t bl' bed a 440 d. d b II I d th game Wr1;ght's t1'me was J'Ust 2:20 sec- · 1' d remarkable saves save e ay, Jim Courter w a es a 1s groun an a s owe e . · . . mg qua 1ty was, an still is their The court campaign starts De- the sophs turned the juniors back yard free style record last year, down at times to a literal crawl onds behind that of the individual spirit. . cember 4 against Vermont at Bur- and record breakstroker Joe Tafel. Nevertheless, the first half saw the winner, Don Black of Rhode Island Assistant coaches Art Lawrence lington. by a 3-1 score. Other ... 1 ·nclude ~printers John Ber- Garnet team play with a sparkle· State. The rest of the Dutchmen . -------------- d \' a· 1 k and Dick Balch played a large part - Bill Matt, Steve DiMarco an bert and Ml'ke Sama.l, b. ackst.roke.r and p· olish q· uite ·new to them. It finished in this order: ar oc , · t d . in the Garnet victory. The Law- .Tom Wh ite did all the scoring for Dan Mead and diver Paul Shan- really looked a& if several goals Lakshin, Belanger, Steiger an h d 1 . . 11 renee coac e m:e was especm -Y the underclassmen. . dan. would be piled on; and the half- McCoun. . .. brilliant. Previously the juniors, who had Amongst the other men, newcomer times score of 1-0 for Union gives a. But the true driving force be- Herman Haus is the only brea_st- good indication of the excellent de- At the turnaround then, despite hind the Dutchmen, the force that won th,e championship last year, stroker. Mullane will have Dwk fensive play of their opponents. the mud, the rain, ~nd the rugged took a team who turned in a 3-5 turned the seniors back, 3-2, and J&hnson. Dave Harper, and Bob The goal was scored by Canez from ·Champlain defense, the Union team record in 1947, and turned it into the sophomores trounced the frosh Albright in the .dive. Distance men one of these impossible looking was clearly right on top. Then it 9 :_: 5 ·:_ _____ ~---~--~--_:<_e_on_t_i_n_u_ed_o~n~P_a_g_e_4_>~- shots at which he is so adept. (Continued on Page 4 ) (Continued on Page 4} Round Trip Fares • NEW YORK $5.60 BOSTON 7.40 Cleaners a.nd Dyers Ball·'s Shoe lni. Rebullc1ers 633 State St. 204 UniorJ St. PHONE 6-3456 Call Ball and Ball Wifl Call For the Finest IN MEN'S CLOTHING CHAS. HOLTZMAN &SON 259 STATE STREET 'FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 1 H S BARRITT STRI!ET Listen to CAMPUS NEWS WRUC 7:15 p,m. Mon. thru Fri~ L. G. Balfour Co. BADGES STEINS RINGS JEWELRY GIFTS FAVORS STATIONERY :PROGRAMS cLUB PINS KEYS ~UEDALS TROPHIES Write or Call CARL SORENSES WATERFORD, NEW YORK Telephone 644 /~~ SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 4.60 GLEE CLUB CONCERTS ..• ~· CHRISTMAS DANCES. • • • • •• • • •• ~ :'J \ ~ (\_c Goo ellvs for LSI HARTFORD 6.25 PLATTSBURG 5.60 NEWARK; N. J. 5.60 JlolfiB HACKENSACK 5.25 ONEONTA 2.45 #', . rt-' BINGHAMTON 4.60 (,nhfll'n. SCRANTON 7.20 ELMIRA 6.85 SYRACUSE 4.0!i f ROCHESTER 6.60 . ~r~· BUFFALO 8.10 WATERTOWN 6.25 OGDENSBURG 8.40 UTICA 3.15 ITHACA 6.15 Frequent Schedules\ • comfortable . Dependable Coaches • Service GREYHOUND TERMINAL 26 ERIE BLVD. PHONE 6·3451 . C I ......,_. NEW YEAit'S EVE ••...•.•...•••• ~~ ARROW DRESS SHIRTS $6.00 ARROW DRESS BOWS $1.00 and $1.50 We know you will like Arro.w's stylish dress shirts 'which have Been college favor• ites for years. We know you'll appreciate the 'price, tool We also carry Atrow dress bows and drl;lss.handkerchiefs. NUSBAUM'S NIGHT 0 ARROW DRESS SHIRTS Shoreham $6.00 ARROW :l1ID • The Kirk $6.00 GREYHOUND '-\'- .......... ....__; ...... FOR ARROW TUX SHIRTS ...,.. ... _....,......,.......,. SHIRTS and TIES HANDKERCHIEFS Cl SPORTS SHIRTS \.. UND5RWEAR ~ < •

' ! 4 Soccer (Continued from Page 3) happened. From a melee inside tne Union goal area one of the Garnet men miskicked the ball intg, his own :net. That seemed to take all the kick out of th€ Union team· their previous fine co-ordination i~ attack and defense fell off very badly and the initiative passed to· Champlain. Only Warner's excel- Ient goal-keeping kept the latter from scoring more than the one they did. So came the last quar- t€r of the season and with it a' slight revival of the Garnet play- ers; an equalizer gave tnem hope once more of victory and they pressed the Champlain team very hard, but dPspite narrow escapes on both side~. even E'Xtra time did not break the tie 'at 2-2. The sophomore class came through last Wednesday afternoon to capture the intramural lacrosse championship and the Class of '87 ·Cup. Sparked by the brilliant work of Jack Greve in the goalie slot who's remarkable saves saved th~ day, the sophs turned the juniors back by a 3-1 score. Bill Mott, St€ve DiMarco and Tom White did all the scoring for the underclassmen. ' Previously the juniors, who had won the championship last year, turned the seniors back, 3-2, and the sophomores trounced the frosh 9-5. FRIDAY 1 NOVEMQ~R 19. 1948, Plant Mushrooms; HAPPY HOUR- Pre-Meds To Meet Discuss With R. P~ I College G t H tt <Continued from Page 2) The Pre-Medical Society of Monday evening th,e Philo- . ·. ·. . e S · 0 er Union Co)lege will hold a meeting matheans held a ro-qndtable discus- LOOSE ENDS-- (Continued from Page 3) a football power to. be reckoned within one short yea:r, can only be John. McLaughry. A team can be The college can really turn on no better than it's coach. This can the heat,no\v, T. R. Mcilwaine. dis- be graphically illustrated by the closed the other day. The rapidly tea~s Mel Hein coached. Hein was mushrooming two hundred and a v.1rtuoso In hi!'! own ,right th t fifty thousand' dollar heating plant can t ·be denied him But th 'vi a which has aroused no end of stu- oso i 't 1· • e rtu- de t · · sn a ways the best teacher n · cur!os1ty and comment has, ~arnet expectations ran high whe~ Mr. Mcilv;aine related, two :Bab- 1 was announced that Mel H . cock and Wilcox boilers capable was to take ave em of delivering. 23,000 pounds of mentor. Howeve~ a!c~he Union grid· steam per hour. of the footba·ll ' omplishmen;ts T ers never came q it ne boilers are· fired by auto- up to expectatiQns. u e matic Detroit spreader stokers W-hen John came here last under forced draft from fans in he was ·known o 1 year, the dust 11 to t \Tuss\ M L n Y as the son of co ec r sys em·. Ashes c aughry D ·t are removed from the fire boxes by rid mentor, and getting e~e~o~t~ hand and conveyed to a hopper at reak a new coach could a the re!lr of the plant ·by a vacuum ~~~tsh!njuries went, plus t:eetfa~~ system _d€signed and ex!)cuted b¥ . was unable to run an the Umted Conveyor Corporation kmd of spring practice\ th Y of Chicago. phyte co h d • e neo- . ac en ed the season with . In spealdng of the new plant, a medrocre 3-5 record. Student su ·.Mr. Mcilwaine said tqe old plant port was sporadic at best Ia · p- had had four .boilers whit:!h were in~t lot~g periods of lethargy. psmg 25 to 40 years old. All were in . ar mg last winter with long such poor condition that they mdoor practice sessions Me- w~uld not supply sufficient pres- . until there woUlr be no' purpose in in room 205 of the Biology build- cussion with RPI on Federal .Aid the AHW complex at all. ing Tuesday at 8 p.m. Dr. Dalton to Education, the national debate Conside];'ing this obvio11s resujt, I of the city health office will speak to:J;Jic for thi's year. Represe:nt~ng would suggest to those who would on \Public Health Problems.\ R ens s·e 1 a e r were Edward J. inject more poetic charm into the o • Twomey Charles. Jameson, and complex to do s through the in- Clements To Speak . Kenneth E. White, while Union dividual wrds themselves. Ma:ny · ' was .represented by Ralph M;. times, for lack of talent, inferior Dean Andrew v. Clements, of t.he Nestle, president, Peter McDonald, ·nicknames are used, which would Albany Law Sc4ool, Union Uni- Thaddeus Rudzic, and Fremont .c. be vastly impFoved if the great versity, is to be the principal speak- Van Patten who served as· modera- al'tists of our day go to work and er at the meeting of the Union ·tor. came out of .the clouds. We must College Society of Pre-Law Stu- Discussions with Middlebury and. all put our baclts to the wheel if dents in the En'glish reading room, Wells colleges have been set for this thing is going to succeed. Bailey Hall, tonight at 7:30. the near future, while others are In view of what I have said I At presen,t, Dean Clements, being planned. -~-o--- wish to offer my humble contribu- widely !mown in the legal profes\ tion for whatever it is worth in sion, is serving on a national com- hope that it will spur those with rnittee dealing with the problem Arony To Lecture greater talen to action. Although of loyalty among government em-· Beginning December 1 Dr. Alex- the name CARE has already been· ployees. He was a successful cor,. ander Arony, college physiciitn, will used now for some time, I believe .POtation lawyer before he became conduct classes in hygiene for -ali that it lacks color and accordingly professor of law, and later, dean 'freshmen. There will be one lecture wish to present the nickmi.me at the law school. each Wednesday at 4:30 :P.lli until P AI SAN (Parcels from American . ·the end of the present term, Cla!'ls\es Individuals to America's Neigh- To Attend Conference will be held in Old Chapel. bors) for use. This is, as I have· Ralph M. Nestle and Henrr Fer-. At pr-esent, it is uncertain already stated, ·only one mirror con•. · whe1her veterans in the f'~oshm· ~.n · guson will be the Union Coliege ·~ a tribut!on to the cause and to the r:epresentatives at the Middle At- ·class will be excused from the lee- future. !antic Conference of Inter-national tures. Dean William C. Hu:ntiey an- Laughry began teaching hls b sure to heat all buildings ade- ?ow _to play football, began inf~:.. quately in cold weather. mg m them the spirit which b _With the new system, one boiler sw•lmm•lnC). carne so ev·d t · e- 11 1 b . 1 en m spring and fall W1 supp Y a out ninety per cent practices, the same spirit which of the dema~d even in the coldest (Continued from Page 3) Relations Clubs at State College, nounced that ·attendance ·r:ecords Pennsylvania, this weekend, No- will be made at each session; and vember 19-21. all freshmen, with the possible ex- Nestle artd Ferguson will take ception of veterans, will be re- an active part in the conference quired ~o attend the classes. The which is entitled \How Can Friend- hygiene c1'asses are a regular part ly Relations Be Established Be- of the freshman's curriculum. LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy became so evident in spring and Schenectady weather. An automatic include Heinz Straeudle, Roy Clark, fall_ practices, the same spirit co~trol system is· be~ng . installed Frank Walker, and Bert Grusky. which seemed to catch the rest of whrch will regulate the supply of The four bacltstroker specialists , the ~tuqent. body up, and finally coal and forced draft as the de• are Mort Madison, Dolph Schultz, culmmated m a tremendous shout mand for heat changes. . Clark B;randoh, and Dick Gardner. at the Middlebury ang Hamilton W. Harold Garee, field engineer Sprinters returning are Gene Ben- tween the U.S.A. and U.S.S.R.\ o~-- They will report on the confer- Green Fields Greener ence amt the results .of their dis- The Leader, Fredonia State PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTI TERRACE and STATE STREET GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall 245 X-RAY FITTING STATE ST.-Since 1898 For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 601 Union Street AUTO SERVICE SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILO.RS Phone 4·5676 114 STATE Near FERRY games. of the United Conveyor Corpora- man, Bob Jarrett, and Fred Heine- Preseason notices didn't give the tion, said that ashes from the fire man. Marty Cohen is student man- Dutchmen too much chance at boxes are dumped intc> small ager. other than another mediocre sea- hoppers which feed into a six inch A \Wh · stronger team can be expected son. at can the Dutchmen do? plpe. The pipe is under eleven be.cause of the abundance of vet- Enstice has graduated.\ It loolted. inches of vacuum, sufficient pres- eran material and the fact that as though_ McLaughry would have sur~ to move anything which will. training started two months earlier a. tough JOb in: turning out any fit mto the pipe. The pipe carries than last year. A .schedule without kmd of a squad. the ashes up to the top of a large ft - I h a so spot should keep the natators guess everybody but John him- opper in the rear of the heating .on their toes, however. McGill Uni- self was seized with this same plant, where the air in the system versity has been replaced this year· ~atalis.m. John started things roll- ~s washed free of dust and the ash by Fordham Univerl'!ity. The mer- mg ~th long \skull sessions \ and _s 1 dumped into a storage hopper. men open their ·campaign Decem- ball handling practice fo; the The storage hopper will take some ber 4 at home against Brooklyn. b~cks. It was McLaughry who kept three days' ashes. Poly. h~s. quarterbacks \on the ball\ by g1vmg them an exam every Friday afternoon. Sure, it was work. It was the same team that rep- I'esented the Garnet last year the same assistant coaches were there. Th only change had been the ad- dition of the McLaughry touch. What is the \touch\? I think that J?hn's success lies in his, ability to . PIC~ _the right player for the right pos1tlon, then pick the right play for the situation. That's all you need to do to be a football coach,. folks. ·. Teach 'em how to play, put 'em m the right position at the right time and give 'em the plays. Inci- dentally there Is no overtime payed to coaches. We didn't expect John to give himself any credit for the team's success; but next time you're brag- ging about Union's grid season, just give a litHe credit to John McLaughry. I FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Unlon Since 791 J ~/0. ~' sS\)\\~ {)\\\\\\JmAYST.JlWlURS II 166 Jay Stre~t _ ll NOTT RESTAURANT and BAR • Right Outside Green Gate WINES - LIQUORS and BEER \IT'S WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY cussions at the IRC meeting on Te.achers College: Friday, December 3, in the English J reading room. oe: 1 bet you Won't marry- me. Jane: I'll take that bet and ral.se you five. · Honor Society Pledges * Brown Daily Herold, !Brown U:qi~ varsity: One teacher to another: These Seniors! They're like coffee; 98 per cent of the active i;ngredients have been removed from the bean! The Union College chapter of Alpha Phi Omega national service fraternity announces the pledging of the following freshmen for the current semester: John Carriere, Peter Dreyfuss, Phil Fensterer, Gerald Geismar, Robert Godburn, Joseph Handler, Edward Haslund, liam Stevenson, William Carl William Imrie, Robert Laudise,. Streets, Donald Forsberg, and Rich- Richard Pollen, Robert Smith, Wil- ard Stock. Repairing and EnCJraving Pens gnd the Finest Gifts .. MAKE ~ru@ THE ~Ufi~R.r-J . ..-- -~~ CIGARETTE Corner State and Center Sfl. OllEGE STUDENTS SMOKE· CHESTERFlELDS th . . . ., . . . ~ an any other- Cigarette·' . . . ' ' ' BY LATEST NATIONAL S Vol. 76, Del Lea Fur The U drive to Memorial reached pledged l D4 Delta P: the highes in the itn for the pl< nition pla nities, Phi Delta The cent partie all of thei tributions. highest i1 the camp' John E entire cal nounced 1 is progres of the fr record pl· the granc quota for by totalin $25 for ea ing pled~ mended ] 18 man their WOI A plaq1 entrance the name the bighe met and a.t 100 per contribut places of be m·ade ternities paigns, I: Tabul1 ings In on page Malo John J editorial \Union-S instructic niques tc en sis. Malone his l:.hirc and worl the colle series is well tra offset tl: students lications SessiOl The Coi night. ThrE Repre tion, th body v future < ference pecanoe Schel;lec This conferel spring, success posslbl:\i Besid adminif faculty student student Stat Sevex ih the cordien Georg-.e meetin,: Albe1 from editor vacanc filled 1 former former :MutT a; Janie oil sp< tions · appoiD Willia1 The pendii tion. ,b