Vol. 7'6, No. 15 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1949 PRICE 'tEN CENTS IFC O.kays Benefit Dance ~~--~----~----------~·~ Phi Delta Theta To Get Proceeds Of Semi-Formal As Phi Delfs Get Me·rchantsil Gift Poi:nt quota Cut to 30 Only 30 chapel points a semester_ will be re9uired\ starting Feb. 7, accordmg to 1 · an announcement made by President Carter Davidson in chapel yesterday. .. The Interfraternity Council i voted Tuesday night to spon- i sor a midwinter dance for the ' ' benefit of Phi Delta Theta I fraternity, which was burned out of its home last Dec. 27. The action was taken .by the faculty council to· make workable a system of giving hour examin\ ations in certain' multipte sectio·n courses between 12 and 12:'50 p.m. This would make it difficult for som•e .students to obtain 46 chapel points, the humber required at present. · The council also decided that seniors who have successfully passed seven terms o.f. chapel need attend no. longer. ---o•---- Union ·Campus Feels l~e. Thaw One tree on the Union College campus was destroyed and severai others were severely damaged by the storm which hit the Schenec- tady area New Year's weekend. The tree that was lost, located be- hind the Administration Building, was uprooted by the weight of frozen rain, which also caused large limibs to be tor~ from trees behind Alumni Gymnasium and along North Lane and Lenox Road. George (photogenic') Ol'ick, editor of The Concordiensis, is shown presenting check for $200.00 to Eugerte F. Sullivan, house president o:t; Phi Delta Theta. Clreclr repl'esents ;funds contributed by Schenectady businessmen who advertiSed in special issue of The Concordiensis at three times the nonnal advertising rate to raise fund for Phi Delts who lost personal property in blaze Dec. 27. The money will be distributed accord4J.g to individual losses of members, with amount of persolia.l insut-ance· coverage of those affected taken into C)onsideration • .rames Mm·ray, m,anii.ging editor, looks on. From Friciay afternoon until Monday morning, electrical facili- ties on the campus w·ere disrupted, making it necessary to operate the heating plant ~y hand. The cellars of several camp1.1s buildings were flooded and had to be pumped. out. Hartwell Ci)uits As Head Of College Radio Station Robert Hartwell, s t at i o n <®-, ____________________________ _ One of the ·buildings flooded (lur- ing the storm was the Old Chapel. The basement wihich has been mentioned for a Rathskeller had to •be pumped out. The mainten- ance department noted that this basement bas to ·be cleared several times a year. -~~•o,~-- manager of WRUC, resigned at a meeting held this after- noon. No replacement had been chosen ·by press time but it was reported that Frank Lov- ing, assistant station manager, was recommended for member- ship approval by the executive committee of the station. By JAMES MURRAY There is erie thing about Robert 'ph •• D elts M ~p . Hartwell, retiring station manager of WRUC, that must be said. He Plans for Future :n~n e~~1;~e~~~anizer, of both men · · bt · · At the beginning of the 1947 sum- Unexpected delays in o ammg ~ . final estimate of damage to Pl1l mer term, the radio station and Delta Theta, as a result of the fire the amateur ham operators were on December 27 have ~revented both headed by a society known as the formation of any future plans the Union College Radio Society. t d The society was a fine idea. There by the fraternity it was re~or e ' was only one thing wrong: bicker- this morning by Harold Wlttner, ing and indifference had prevented president of the alumni a.Ssociation im'PrO>V'ement. Not only did each of the house. · man have a different idea on how A tentative estimate ha,s been to run the station, none of them made· based on rebuilding from knew much about it. One of the what is left of the house instead society was appointed station man-. of tearing it down and starting all over. Since the estimate is purely ager each year and he did the best tentative and subject to revision, he could. They voted him, the power, not expecting that 'he meant what he· ·said about being the boss. They lear11ed. One of the first things he ·did after taking over was to hold .,_ meeting of the staff to admit that he knew nothi.ng about radio, ibut that he- was going to learn. In this process of tl!e whole group· learning together he told them that· they all would make mistakes, that· <Continued on Page 6) New Angle On · Gl Subsistence Can a student collect federal funds under the G I Bill of Rights while he's in jail? The question nearly came up for. decision last :night when James Carll, of North College, was at'rested on a charge of speeding by Schenectady police and was jailed in lieu of hail. Wittner wished to walt until the ~Hartwell Takes Over final estimate before disclosing the That was the situation when Rob- · cost. ert Hartwell was appointed station When another Union .student reached police headquarters with $25 b~;~.il money, Carll ap- peared reluctant to leave the comfort of his cell. Oniy the prospect of missing his finB.l ex- aminations dislodged him. Meanwhile, 23 of the 27 men liv- ·manager in Aug. 1947. He accepted ing in the fi'aternity have been the job as station manager, but placed in quarters o:n the campus · only with the provision that he while four have found temporary was to run the station as he saw· refuge in tO'Wll. fit. Seems he was agreeable to .spending 25 days in jail, with meals~ free, while receiving $2:50' per day from the .government. This ·measure was passed on to the student council for approval. The latter body .has twice rejected proposals for such an affair. but will very likely grant permission to the I.F.C. to sponsor the event because of its beneficial nature, according to Peter Bullis, chair- rr.an .of the social committee of the student council. As .proposed by the IFC, the dance would be a low cost affair . with a smaller but capable local band being brought in to provide the music instead of engaging a more expensive name band. This would make it possibie for the n!;iw- ly created dance committee, 'headed by James Gallagher, to sell the tickets at a considerable reduction from the price charged in the past. · As stated in the resolution pre- sented to the· student council, the dance is to be semi-formal, w})!ch . woud mean that girls· would wear formals, but the dress of the men would be optional. ' The objection of the student council as originally ~dvanced were two-fold; the cost of contract• ing a band with a reputation and the prQximity of the affair tp the spring prom, both of Which they feared would make a winter dance unprofitable. The proposal of the IFC is to move the date of the winter week end up from March to Feb. 25-27. The Union varsity swimming team has a meet in the gym on the afternoon of the 26th and both the varsity and the freshmen basket- ball teams plaY in the armory ~t Schenectady that night against Hamilton. ---0,--- A.ccident Survey One serious and three minor auto- mobile accidents involving Union College. students occured since the beginning of the winter vacation, it was Ieru;:ned in a telephone sur- vey last n,ight of the fraternitie;:! and dormitories. No injuries were repO>rted. pamage to cars range~d from total demolition of one vehicfe to superficial fender dents. Ali .ac;:- cidents were attributed to hazard- ous driv:ing· conditions. 0 K~tz to Give Eye Talks Effects .of the master eye on· mus- cular coorQ.ination in sports will be disqussed by WilforQ. :H. Ketz, cciordin~or of student activities in an' address in noonday chapel Mon- day. Accd'l'ding to Ketz, one eye play15 a larger part than the other in centering human vision on such .sports objects as baseball, golf balls and shooting targets. He will ta1k on the general topic of eye- muscular coordination.

2 FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1949 \Hamlet'' Movie Reviewed By GRAHAM MARTIN ~----------------------~~-- QI.nttrnr ~ ll!erilber Associated· ·Col• legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Advertising Servil'<'. Inc.. College Pul>lishers Representative. 420 1\latli- son Ave., N. Y. C, Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. .Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Eutered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class J'v1ail !11atter, sub ·Cription 1 Oc a copy; $3 year; cte!i\•ered any- where in the United States. A certain Hollywood: directo•r,. side world is in Ophella~s suicide, commenting on Lawrence Olivier's. and this merely throws outain re- ''Hamlet,\ said,·\Very good, but the lief the material unreality of the script seemed to ·be full of cliches.\ remaining scenes .. It all happened This is the opposite reaction to sometiine.-anytime~in the remote that of the Sha'kespea,rea;n scholar, past. who will grumble at the textual It is; of course, too easy to CJ;'ti- and dramatic alterations. The stu- cize the play. I felt myself the . dent body, ignoring the first criti- absence of those prize sychophants, cism and accepting the second, will, Rosencrantz and Guild'enstern, the I feel certain, enjoy the productic·n. Players scene, the soliloquy, \Oh as a film triumph of the first order. what a rogue and peasant slave am I?\ But it should .be remembered The .second of Olivier's successful. that the characterization. o·f Ham- .atterr.pts to put Sha;]respeare on let in those scenes is largely re- ,the screen, \Hamlet\ is in complete placed by the techniques of the contrast to \Henry V\; here the film media: the close-up, the silent decadent beauty of the French soliloquy, incidental rnusic, the . cnurt is replaced by the dark and camera's eye roving from room to George T. Orick Editor James MUI'ray Acting Man. Editor Herbert Sa.\:e Acting News Editor James Ettinger Ac~g Sp01·ts Editor William McGarry, Sam Roscoe Acting Ft>aturt> EditQrs Robert Heinemann ,Lambert Photo Editor Bus\ness Albert Corbo, James Baar Associate Editors Ginsberg Manager gloomy halls of Elsinore, the color-. room; all these effects are used pageantry' of Agincourt ·by the to make version as filmed a dra- .. bleak, mist-engulfed ramparts on matic entity; and for myself, at whic·h Hamlet meets his father's· least, Olivier has succeeded bril- gbost. Olivier himself says, \To .liantly in his task of filling up the me 'Hamlet' is an engraving, not gaps created perforce by cutting. an oil painting,\ and it is· this con• ception which dominates the film. All in all, the care with which The black of Hamlet's costume, the whole play was cast is well ex- the vilginal white of Ope·hlia's, the emplified in the presence of such gaunt castle roorr.s with their huge fine actors as Esmond Knight and vaulted roofs, the battlement scenes John Laurie in the tiny parts of of rock and sea and mist all seem Bernardo and Francisco. HELP Needs Y ou.r Help The HELP plan. which was started and is being run by students, is the most important single student contribution to college life in years. The plan has worked out better than the nine-man committee thought it would this first year with the seven fraternities who are participating doing a fine job. to emphasize the timelessness So; unless you're a Shakespell{e which I always asso·ciate with the expert or allergic to cliches, don't play. The only glimpse of the out• miss it. Tieket Arran9ements This is the time when the student body as a whole have been asked to express approval or disapproval of the plan through their fraternities or through William Reeder, who is trying to get seventy-five independent veterans to sponsor one ex-enemy veteran, and Sam Newcomer, who is working with the independent non-veterans. So far, the response has been encouraging, but Reeder and Newcomer have not yet reached their goals. Arrangements have been made'$\Hamlet\ which will ·be shown between Union College and the 1 every day at 2;30 and 8;30 p.m. Colonial Theatie in Albany to make until January 21. The following available special tickets to Union filrr s will be presented after that students for film present!).tions. date: \Red Shoes,\ \Symphony lt seems to us that there is no longer room for argument over whether the plan is worthwhile or not. . It has proven itself. The only question is whether you as an individual have enough interest in your college to help, and, incidentally, whether you are willing to part with a little cash. If you are interested and if you are not a fraternity member, we sug- gest that you get in touch with Reeder or Newcomer. Discrimination Discussed Discrimination in the selection of members for fraternities is treated with no punches pulled in a series of two articles in Collier's\' the fii·st appearing in the Jan. 8 issue, the second in the issue on newsstands today. Everyone whether he be an advocate of practical democracy or an upholder of \frater- nal\ bigotry, should read these two articles. It Wa·s Reported By R. A. NAVIAS @> An unusually reliable' source re- ported Monday that it had almost indisputable knowledge of the fol- lowing rather startling information. According to our informant, a wealthy Pen1;1sylvanian died in the recent past and has willed a sum estimated,~at over a million dollars to three small cities in .Pennsyl- vania for the express purpose of solving the problem of juvenile de- the reaction of the Pennsylvania cities was unknown to our inform- ant. In an effort to check the validity of this remarkable report, Dr. Ligon was interviewed, at which time he stated that he knew no- thing of the wl;10le affair, and that our mention of the case is the first he has heard of it. 0---- linquency in those cities. R d w • The cities, which our informant ea . er fifeS did not name, turned to Dr. Ernest Dear Sir:: Ligon and the Union College Char- Just a brief note to register both acter Research Project in a des- amazement and pleasure at the perate attempt to solve their prob- Holly or Funeral Wreath Spread lem. The three cities have had 'no .in your December 17th issue. I success in their attempts to reduce could hardly believe that this was the rate of juvenile delinquency, in the same staid literary organ we tact, police recor-ds indicate !!- usually see. My only question is: slight upward trend in the past -If you are capable of such things, several months. why don't we see more of them? What action has been taken by Sincerely yours, Dr. Ligon and his associates, and E. Markham. Now on sale in the student acti- Pastorale\ and \Paisan.\ vities o.ffice for one dollar these The ticket offer will be in effect tickets can be used for any of the for an indefinite time into the future features coming to the future. Special rates are given Colony Theater. Tickets may also only if the tickets are purc·hased be used at the present time for the in the student activities office at- Laurence Olivier's production of though more than one ticket may Idol Dying? Our slightly-less-soiled sister, the Idol, seems to be on the point of· death. Whether the final' cause is starvation or neglect is a matter of opinion, but the immediate rea- son is the enforced \resignation\ of Joe Enzer from his editorship .. George Zopf is unexpectedly re- fusing to take over, so the only man left in the hierarchy is Clark Potter, who is non-committal on the subject of revival. Presumably the publications board meeting to- day will decide whether the Idol will continue. be purchased at a time for dates and similar arrangements. Regular prices are $2.40 and $1.80. UCCA Presents The Movie • > JANUARY 10, 1949 4:30 P.M. Old Chapel ADMISSION FREE WE KNOW YOU WILL .ALWAYS ~ REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS Fo,. WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens and the Finest Gifts Cornttr Sfai .. and Center Sts. Li~ G 01 $37 mous acter Ligoz psyd in all of $3' year grant Ligor not , att!].c ganiz 000 t ject : Tho to el said. be a these 'I' he build ftcien prese build ment rema In char~ work c·hur~ In tl d.evel of s priv~ Di1 plan1 collei with the 1 \T: Dr. assm is th ness psyc: to tl form to d strex effec thos.< Dr the: pletE metl with ing 1 Dr. that char UI Ligo lows for und( assif Und ants psy>e Tl wou beyc incr prac lege: Cart nual Tl 'deal tive, COlli plan port and ates subz oft

e e e e d at ar FRIDAY, JANU:A~Y 7., 1949 3 LiCJon- Proiecf:• Gets G·rant · 1 Gals Imperil ·Union Men Of$375,000 $375,000 has been granted anony- . mously to the Union College char- acter ~;esearch project, Dr. Ernest Ligon, head of the Union C<l·llege .psy~hology department, announced in an interview this week. The sum of $375,000 is to be used over a fi:ve year period, $75,000 a year. The grant was made anonymously, Dr. Ligon said, because the donor did hot want the claim of a!lvertising . • The men of Union College are no longer safe behind their ivory walls. The roving female has in- vaded the sae~,ed dOPlain ·of higher : learning in force, ·a:nd was re- att!l-ched to the grant. This or- · ganization has already given $30,- 000 to the character reseamh pro- ject in the past. three years. The grant wili enable the ·project to expand· its facilities, D_r. Ligon said. · Around twenty people will : be adde.d to the staff, three of these to be full time psycholbgi:?ts. p t • T h • Act d ;;~i~di~~o~~\:en!a~~~~. ~~n::~u:- .· . rae ICe - eac . 1ng ·1 ·· S ~~~~:~:pa~~;:h~r:g~vail:~;:rlr:n~~~ ·P. ofentiallnstru. c. to. rs buildi;ng. The psychology depart- ment and the testing program will By LESLIE GRAY remain in their present quarters. (Shown above teaching in Mont Pleasant High.) ~ In the past, Dr. Ligon said,\'the Fo,r those men who intend to enter the teaching profes-. character research project has sion, .there is a course offer~d here at Union which is designed W!Orked in \~three fields, in the · t d th t 't f · · h' · churcl::! school, home and Y.M.C.A .. to g1ve s u ents e oppor um y o · gammg teac mg expen- In the future, the most important 'ence while still in college. <!> developments will be in the field' This com·se also meets a New this feeling of co-operation was due of secular education: plllblic and York State requirement which says· chiefly to the novelty of the situa- priv:y:e sc:hools and colleges. that a teacher must have had fifty tion, and when the newness wore Discussion groups have been hours of practice teaching before off, tl::!e students wer..e quick to re- planned and organized in lileveral receiving a license to teach in this vert ·to their own, true, inimitable colleges to familiarize students state's public schools. selves. On the whole. m:y relations with tlie methods and principals of At present there are nineteen with the class have mamtained a the project. students enrolled in this ctJUrse. rather even level due, no doubt, to \The character research project,\ ·(Education 22) .. They ·are teaching the preesnce of Miss Meyer in the Dr. Ligon said, \is based on the· classes in seven different schools in rear of the room. pulsed only by the untiring efforts of the campus police force . The Concordiensis became aware of the attack after one of the ag- gressors telephoned the newspaper office to inquire whether Union College campus was private prop- erty not to be trespassed upon by .those not directly connected with the institution.· The callE;Jd went on to as!£. what the fraternity house regulations concerning women were, especially where and when women were allowed in the houses. A check with the senior member of the campus police force revealed that on Sunday, ·January 2, at around 11 ·o'clock he had to escort several \girls~· off the campus after they had caused considerable dis- tuurbance around 'the pasture dormitories. He stated that he had , seen the same group two hours earlier, \Vhen he was attracted by their noisy passage down Library Lane, seeking, so they said, St. Anthony's Church and a bus stop. Fran~ Quillian stated he felt the \Wander·ing wenches\ were up to no good in so far as the students were concerned. ~~-10<~- --- UCCAtoShow Protestant Film A movie entitled \Beyond . Our Own\ will be presented by the ~ Union College Christian Association Monday, Jan. lOth, at 7:30 p.m .. in Old Chapel. Admission will be free. assumption that a man's c'haracter Schenectady. The group is under There is one situation .on which is the strength and social effective~. the supervision of Dr. Freel Of the I feel I should comment. The pre:;;- ness of his personaliil'y'. Many psychology department. ent class of beginning German psychoiogists believe that the key The beginning practice-teacher is which I teach has twenty pupils. to this is in what attitudes a man first interviewed by the principal of There are great differences in their forms. The aim of l;!he project is the particular school in which he abilities to assimilate a foreign Ian- to discover what attitudes tend to will work, and then introduced to guage. This poses the problem of strengthen character and social the teacher who will ·work with· gearing the work so that the more effectiveness, and by what means him. · The first two or three weeks gifted pupils will not be bored and thos.e attitudes may be acquired.\ are spent in observing the regul·ar the less gifted wHl not be left far Dr. Ligon went on to say that teacher. After this period of ob- behind. This is a difficult situa- the leaders of the project are com-. servation, the practice-teacher as- tion to remedy and it is my opinion pletely- ,dedicated to the scientific, sumes the duties of the regular· that if groupings were made of method. No method is developed teacher. fast and slow pupils the problem without developing methods of test- From that time on he teaches !;lis would be less marked and progress. · ing the effectiveness of the method. class one !;lour a B.ay, five days a would be more even. \Beyond Our Own\ is the first production of the Protestant Film Commission, a national interdenom- inational service agency. The film Wa!> produced in Hollywood and utilizes the skill of :t;lollywood technicians to ·bring a religious message in a form which is under- standabie and entertaining. Dr. :Ligon specifically menponed week. The regular teacher sits in on the'whole 1 feel that the· ex- that there are no dogmas in the the back of the room, notes er- perience r ha-ve gained, from prac- character_research project. rors on the part of the student- tice-teaching bas been of inestim- HOFFMAN SKATE LAND • Under the expanded project, Dr.· teacher and offers possible sugges- able value for any further teaching Ligon said that some graduate fel- tions for improving his teaching I might do. It is one thing to feE;Jl . lowships will be offered. Positions techniques in a critique after cla'ss. that you know your subject, but an for posi~docto:rate research and Once a week there is a meeting· entirely different thing to attef!lpt undeJ;'graduate research laboratory of ali tl::!e practice-teachers in the to teach it. assi,stant~;~ will also be~ availa~Ie .. psychology buildhig on campus. At ;==============::; S~TE EVERY EVENING Undergraduate laboratory assist- that time discussions are held re- . ants will be confined to advanced glj!:rding any problems whicl). may · • S!llt. & Sun. Afternoon 2-5 P.M. psyehology majors. have arisen and possible steps to rectify these problems are sug- Annual Report gested. I am how finishing my second term of teaching German at Mont Pleasant :High School under the The hope that Union College supervision of Miss Meyer, to whom would not have to raise its tuition I am indebted for her helpful beyond $500 in order to m-eet its guidance. increasing financial problems, a .As with most things, the first practice common among other col-· few days are the most trying. leges, was expressed by President When Miss Meyer introduced me to Carter Davidson in \his second an- the class and announced that I nual report on the college. would t~ke over at an early date; A new address- The same service- reliable and competent Call 3-6700 • Union Cleaners Prompt Delivery Service This report, \The State of Union;\ a dead silence ensued. I felt that ·deals with the financial, administra- the looks directed at me PY the tive, and operational problems en- stu~ents smacked of mice watching countered in 1948 and prospective a piece of cheese. The first day of plans .for 1949. Copies of this re- . teaching was one . fraught with port are being sent to all alumni nervousness and mistakes on my . and to the -parents of undergradu- . ·part. I must s!l'y that the class w.as ates. This report has .all'e!l-dY been very co-operative and seemed quite submitted to the board of trustees.· anxious to help me when I stum- of the college. · bled. I have since discovered that· '---------------- ... • ·- SKATE DANCING CLASS Mon. & Wed. 6:15-'7:45 P. M. FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 111 $ II.ARRETT STREET

Cagers Prep The Two Head Men Courtesy Schenectady Gazette Leading Union scot·er, Captain Jim Pemrick, left, gets a briefing by Coach Pete Nistad. The next Union foe will be Hobart on Jan. 14. Chess Squad Finishes 9th in N.Y.C. Tourney Competing in an exceptionally strong field of 15 top teams at the annual intercollegiate chess tourna- ment held at Columbia University during the Christmas vacation, Union College finished a strong 9th. The team, consisting of Walt May, (Captain), Die!{ Mechanic, Dick Bennett and AI Hohn, com- piled a record of 12¥.. games won and 15¥.. lost for the 7 rounds of the tourney. This topped the scores set by the Harvard, Cornell, Rutger,s, N.Y.U., Fordham and R.P.I. teams. High spots in the tournament for the Garnet were the snappy 4-0 defeat of Fordham, the 2'12-1¥.. defeat of N.Y.U. and the brilliant (),.1 individual score of AI Hoehn, which was in no small measure responsible for the team's good showing. The ·winner of the tournament was C.C.N.Y., with a 21-7 record, foilowed by Yale. The Union team, which holds its' m:eetings Monday night in Bailey Hall, expects to better its showing next year. Prac- tice is currently being held in the form of rapid transit tourneys. TELEVISION MOVIE A repre::;entative of television sta- tion WRGB, Schenectady, will show a film on television develop- ment at a meeting of the Union College chapter of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers Monday at 7:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. Remaining Schedules 1949 Varsity Basketball Jan. 14-Hobart at Geneva. 15-Ro·chester at Rochester Feb. 5-Harr.i!ton at Clinton. 9-Amherst at home 11-Buffalo at Buffalo 16-R.P.I. at Troy 19-Middlebury at home 23-Stevens at home 26--Hamilton at home Mar 2-R.P.I. at home 5-Trinity at Hartford Varsity Swimlllling Jan. &-Colgate at horee 15-Rochester at Rochester Feb. 4-Fordham at New York 12-Rochester at home 18-Hamilton at home 26-Trinity at home Mar. 5-R.P.I. at Troy 12--Adirondack A. A. U. Champs. LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS · Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE· STREET . I FRIDAY,· JANUARY ·7, 1949 For Hobart · Pe:mri:c'k Le·ads ·l·n Sco~ring With 11.5. Points Per Til·t By :SOB HORN The Garnet cagers closed the '48 part ·Of the basketball .3eason by racking up a decisive 52-47 triumph over St. Law- . eence on December 17 ih Alumni Gym, and· then traveling to West Point on December 18 they wei'e trounced by a strong Army aggregation 60-45. The Nistad-coached team, with a 3-3 record, resumes its activities, after being idle for a month,· agajnst Hobart next Friday. Dou•n Larries The Dutd11r.en appeat ed to have • Team Statistics ;e\ ed up the St. La\\ renee game Co-captain J.irn Pemric~, last n the s<>r~nd quarter. v. hen trailing yeat 's high scorer, is leading 'the 15-11 they bt oke loose for 23 points· .\·hile the Larries l:it fur only 4 squad again this season with 69 ~:arkers which ga\'e the Garnet a points in gix contegts for an 11:5 :>tlf tin:e l<'nd of 34·19 .. However. a\'crage per game. Dick Spiedel is 'hr St. La\\ renee courtnwn ~urged cunently in the r-unnerup spot with back to lwol the sccre at 39 all mid-.- ay through the final petiod. 4 2 points. Tim Shea is holding Co-captains Pcmrick and Grant down the third spot with 38. In i'otired in 9 point~ to snap the dPad- the six games to date, Union has lock and send Union to its third an \offensive average of 53.8 points victory. The scoring was fairly per game while sporting a defen- cvenly divided among six rr en with sive zecot·d of 45.5. The Garnet Bill Kazno1Aski and Bil Grant shar- have also outscored their opponents ing top honors by swishing the 323 to 213. From the foul line, the chords for 10 Pounters. Jim Pem- Dutchmen ·have scored 80 counters rick and Tim Shea hit for 8 while on 143 tries for a 56% mark. Jim \Cookie\ Sherwin and Dick Davis Pemrick has ·also garnered the . chipped in with 7 and 6 markers most nurr.ber of points in a game respectively. which was 16 in the Army fray. Lose to Arm.v Plalyer Fighting gamely against a strong Pemrick . . . . . . . . . . 6 \iVest Point squad. the Dutchmen s 'd 1 6 stayed within striking distance in per e · · · · · · · · '•' · the first half which ended 28-21 in Shea · · · · · · · · · · · · · 6 favor of the Cadets. However, Sherwin .......... 6 midway through the second half Grant ............ 6 the home team widened the gap Kaznowski . . . . . . . 6 to an insurmountable 20 points. The West Pointers roBed up a Roberts · · · . · ..... 6 10-3 edge early in the first sta1;1za Carmichael . . . . . . . 5 only to see the visiting Union Col- Davis ............ 6 lege quintet pull even at 16 all on, Petrone . . . . . . . . . . 4 a foul shot by Carmichael. The· West Point five surged to their Faubel · · · · · • · · · · · 3 half time advantage on a series Micarelli . . . . . . . . . 3 one banders from the foul circle. Patton . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Coach Nistad substituted freely in. Waldvogel ..•.... 2 an effort to find a strong combin- ation. Henk . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 G 25 19 16 9 14 11 7 6 4 1 0 0 0 0 0 F 18 4 6 15 1 6 7 9 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 p 69 42 38 33 29 24 21 .25 . 20 2 0 0 0 1 0 GOOD SHOES FOR' STU'DENTS and FACULTY cti:';rs. Ball's Shoe Dyers Inc:. RebuDders Patton & Hall X-RAY JJ'ITTING 245 STATE ST.-since 189S For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 601 Union Street AUTO SERVICE 633 State St. 204 Union St. PHONE 6-3456 Calf Ball and Ball Will Call A' Sweethearf Pin is a Treasured Xmas Gift. Delight your Best Girl with a beautiful crested. gift or minia- ture Sweetheart Pin. CARL SORENSEN 30 Murray Ave.; Watei•ford, N.Y. Telephone Waterford 644 L. G. Balfour Co. FRIO. but: ceiV€ .comi Jim'! agaiJ .coun spar: mem nity. WI p1IIcli in i Cba.t keep A!rt I seas• bUJcll we.a1 wlbit: late tioos shoo tioni P·lay Keel the seas reco T1: biog basl.1 M' Hob a gr c'las: men M· War pour Itha for on· t ·ball capt Kill• ciali higl: wre: gra.c coac ball for· is a bart \F• Lau the was CoD tili.e

p I 2 0 0 0 I 1 0 FRIDAY, JANUARY 7, 1949 5 C·arnet Six Merme.n I ' / n To Ope,n Tomorrow; Clash With C 1 olgate --~------~~----------------~----------------- ~ ~ORE.~OAROI ~=Dick Roberts--·- Jitn Carmichael, 20 yt>ar old so'(}hormore, is a pro·duct of Mont Pleasant- Hig'h School whet•e he played v a r s 1 t y · . basketball under Sig Makofsld;. one of Union's all- time greats. Jim entered Union in '47 and p.roceeded. to become high SOO·Ioer oh the '47- · · · freshman bas- l>.etball team. Carmic·hael wail· a member o·f the -'48 fre;shman · lacrosse s q u a d, but as a reSult of a leg injury re- ceived, he will not compete this .coming season. So far this ·season Jim's outstanding performance w~ against Wesleyan where he ac- .counted for 8 points along with a sparkling floor game. He is a member of Delta -Upsilon frater- nity. * * * When Cmwh Art Lawrence's p.ulcksters take the ice on Jan. 8 in tlli.e opening meeting against Champlain . at . Plattsbu1;g, .please k:eep in mill!dJ the handicaps that A!rt lh;as had to face this and every season .. ,MJ.·. Lawrence bas had: to blJJe:k Schenecmdy's temperme.ntal we.atlli.er, and also the outdoor rin.h;, wbidb usually isn't in shape until late Decemlber, so pre-season prac.. tioos must largely be confined to shooting goals lrt the gym, condi- The l_taiders Are St~ong ••• Photo by Bo.b Schwartz Co::tch Ray :liullan!', far left, g·i\'es some helpful hints to Joe Tofel, John Berbert, and Dan .Mead, his three swim stars who broke .1·ecurds against Hamilton. -· ---~-~ ----- Swimmers After Third Win: Samal Lost With Fracture . Impl'essive in two triu~11phs .over Brooklyl'l: Poly and Ham- lito~, Coach. Ray Mullane s Umon College swimmers come up agamst their ~everest test of the season tomorrow night in Fo~te ~em011.al Pool when they face undef~ated Colgate Umvers1ty. The Red Raiders have whipped Buffalo and Rochester in, earlier meets and present one of the,stronO'st squads in the state. @> e Smnal Lost tioning drills, . and 'Wor.ldng out Colgate defeated the Dutchmen P·lays without' the benefit of ice. 52-23 last year and, according to Keeping these dirawbacks in mind, ·Mullane, they're an improved team. the Dutchrm:en should better last To make matters worse, Co-captain seasonj's one win in nine · tries Mike Sa:mal will be out of action posted a 2:43.1 performance. His old record was 2:46. Dan Mead shattered the 150 yard backstroke record by three tenths o.f a second with a 1:53.7 outing. The 300 yard medley. relay team of John Ber- bert, Tafel and Mead. scored in 3:19.9 bettering the previous time of 3:21. record. for an indefinite length of time due * * * to a broken hand sustained over Mild Weather Hinders Team By BILL HERRMAN The Union Colleg-f' hockey team . opens its 1949 season tomorrow afternoon a.gainst ChaiT'plain Col- lege at Plattsburg. The Garnet six, Ul)der the guidance of Art Law\ . renee, who also serves as head baseball coach and assistant foot- ball coach. had its first seascn ~inrc> 1\\41 'last yPar. and lost to Cha:r.plain in both 'of their rr.eet- ings by scores of 5-2 and 1-0. I ·•st season, due to inexper.ience ·· :Uld lar·l{ of pr1l<'tice, the Union pud;st .. rs lllld a r<'cord cf on!' win ng<linst Pight losses. Th• Dutchmen, lost I\ o lPtt<'tmen, Dick Raymond and Doug Everett, throug·h gradu- ation, but with ten rr.en carried o;···r· from last season and thP ad- c'ition cf John Turnier, a transfer student from Champlain, Lawrence hopes for a better season this year. Lawrence said that the team has been seriously hampered 1:\y lack of icc, and that no definite squad has been picked. The meri he Is ·taking to· Champlain are those whom he has seen play previously, as he has had no way of testing the abilities of the new men. The probable starting lineup for the Charr.plain game will be: Mort Silverman or Josh Titus at goal, Phil Brady and Joe Young at de- fense: Win Paige and Joe Behan at wing, and Captain Rufe Burlin- game at center. In reserve will be Bob Dyroff, Don Boink, Chick Meehan, Ike Powell, Ollie Personeus, and John Turnier. GOOD FOOD? Try • Elmer's Restaurant 149 Bar:rett St. · This is the first of a series of biographical sto·ries of opponent basketball coac:hes. - Michael J. (Bjg Mike) McKillop, Hobart's head basketball coach, is a graduate of Ithaca College of the c'lass of '44. He has been mead mentor of the Statesmen since 1947. Christmas vacation. Sarna! was out- standing in the 50 and 100 yard sprints, and the 400 yard relay. Rpchester University will be the Garnet's next opponent on: January 18 at Rochester and the Yellow- jack~ts are also ready with a powerful outfit. · Sarna! in the 50 yard sprin~ and John Isbister in the 220 and 440 yard free style were Union's three other first places. Hamilton cap-. tured the dive, the 400 yard relay, and the 100 yard sprint. Where Union Men Are Always Welcome McKillop, a veteran of World War II, is 30 years old, 6'4\ 220 pounds. He played center on the Ithaca Bombers' basketball team for three years and · was a. tackle on· the Ithaca College varsity foot- ball team. In his senior year,. lhe captained the Ithaca gridders. Mc- Killop was also a track man, spe- cializing in the shot put and the high hurdles, and was assistant wrestling coach during lhfs under- graduate career. He· assisted in coaching both basketball and foot- ball at Ithaca in 1946 while working for his master's degree. \Big Mike\ is also football line coach at Ho- Record\S Fall The Hamilton meet on December 18 at Clinton produced a 42-33 win. along with three new records. For the second ti'm~ this season, Do- captain Joe Tafel broke the 220 yard breaststroke mark as he FOR All YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 797 J bart. · * * * ~./D .. n\' 6SO\\~ Football ·Coaclb. Jo'hn J. Me- An ~\}U\ln l [W(Lrllt' Lauglb;ry remarked recently flhat. VUII -!Jie JAYST.J n . ti\J was \When he captained the Eastel'n College All-Stars to a 16-'7 win over \. GUERRA'S PHARMACY Fountain Prescriptions Sundries 600 Union St. Cor. Barrett St. the high point of his football career ·11 166 Jay Street ·11 .. tili.e New York Giants in 1940. •----------------' SERVING UNION\S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4·5676 114 STATE Near FERRY

fl ' FRIDAY, JANUARY. 7, 1949· 6 - M k U T . t ·s· 'h\\ d I Hartwell :Resi 8 ns to be followers .before they become ' ,JI!!!III e- 'P es c e . :u ·e· \:1 leadei•s, Taoday, there is no cam- .g . : . . ' . · 1 • (Continued from Page 1) pus activitiy w•hich ltords ,greater Monday, Janll4Ll'Y 10 • B.H. 101; Math. la, Fox, CE 207; he expected to make a good share attraction for the student· than the 9 A. M.-Chem. ~2a, Porter, c.L. Math. 1&, Orm!Sby, CE 207; Mat'h. himself, but that t·hey still would radio station. There are many lOS; Chern. 25a, Ewing, c.L. 201. 12a, Fox, CE 207. do things his way. When the air ·l'easons for this. One is the glarn- 10 A.M.~Eco. llb, Rotundo, B.H.. 1:30 l'.!M.-Eco. 38a, Whitaker; c)eared, Hartwell, and J~:~~m-es Og- orous job of announCing in glamor- 110; Chem. na, Little, C;L. 209.; B.H. 303; Eco. 45a, Whitaker, B.H. glesby were running tne .station by · ous sur.roundings. Another is the Ge6l. la, Smith, Geol. Lab. 24. 303; Chern. 1a, Hoclter, C.L. 203. · .tl:le!flSelves. For all practical pur- . osptil de corps of the group of 11 A. M.-Comp. Lit. 25a, Coffin, 2:30 P.M.-Eco. 39a, Bennett, B.H. poses the society died in. th,e fall abcut 45 n:·en who work at the. sta- B.H .. SOOE; Bio. 11b, :Boyer, B.L. 204. · .of 1947, tion. But no matter what reason 205; Bio. 14a, Terry, B.H. 203; 3:30 P.M.-Hist. 16a, Bronner,· From this lo·w ebb state, Hart-, you .give for the station's attrac- Sewerage, Taylor, c.L. 201. B.H. 201; Hist. 32a, Bronner, B.H. well has patiently acquired men tiveness, in. the final a. haiysis it is 1:30 P.M.~Phy. 4a, Marron,. P.L. 201. around him who have knowle(ige due to .the hard wm;k and per- 105; Phy. 4a, Byers, P.L. 105; Mech- 4:30 P.M.-Phy, 14a, Goble, P.L. of their jobs aond who are ·wi1ling severance of one man. anics lla, Male, Jr., CE 304. 105; Phy . .14a, Rehr, P.L. 105; Phy .. ----~-~~------~---~------- 2:30 P.l'L-Gov. 12b, Anderson, 14a, Rojansky, P.L. 105; Phy. 31a, B.H. 201; Gov. 44a, Anderson, B.H. Goble, P.L. 105: EE 13, W. Lewis, 201; Math. 2a, Burkett, CE 207; EE 22; EE 13, Goodwin, EE 22; EE Math. 2a, Ormsby, CE 207. 15, Schlesinger, EE 22. 4:30 P.M.-Amer. Civ. lb, Nie- meyer. B. H. 101; Hist. 1a, Bristol, B.H. 201; Hist. la, Morley, B.H. 201; Must Report Hist. 1a, Warren, B. H. 201; Eco. Mrs. Charlotte Rapelje, Union 43a, Avery, B. H. 301; Math. llb, College registrar, has urged that Male, Sr., CE 207; Math. llb, Orms- all students who dq :r;10t expect to by, CE 207; Mechs. of Mats. 20a, return for the second semester Male, Jr., CE 304; Mechs. of Mats. should report to her office in the 20a, Mondschein, CE 304; Mechs. of administration building. Seniors Mats. 20a, Sayre, CE 304. are, however, excepted from this Tuesday, January 11 request. 9 A.YI..-German la, Klemm, L.B. Schedules are being made out· 11; G~nman la, Jones, L.B. 11; Bio. during the period of January 3 to la, Dale, B.L. 203; Bio. lla, Winne, January 12. Advisors now 'have the B.L. 203; Bio. 13a, Dale, B.L. 203; course prograln and students hav- Bio. 2la, Terry, B.L. 203; Chern. 12a, ing schedule problems f;lhould see· Sheffer, C.L. 201; Hist. 65a, Morley, their advisors before the deadline. B.H. 203. Schedules for the techni·cal courses 10 A.M.·- Gov. 48a, Anderson, B. H. are to be I)'lade in the r('gistrar's of- 302; Hist. 24a, Bristol, B. H. 302. ftc e. Those with irregular sched- . U A.M.-Eng. 21a, Niemeyer, ules will be notified of changes. Standings to Dafe in Field House Drive No. of No. of AmoWit %of N arne of Fratet•nity ~Ien Contrib. Subscribed Quoia Beta Eta Upsilon 11 11 $280.00 101.81 Delta Phi ................ 60 54 1475.00 74.68 Theta Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . . 18 16 360.00 72.00 Sigma Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 24 524.00' 69.99 Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . .. 51 51 1002.00 62.62 Phi Gamma Delta . . . . . . . . 42 42 767.00 57.88 Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . 33 29 425.00 47.22 Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 ·15 365.00 45.62 Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . . . . . 27 14 295.00 42.14 Delta Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 39 885.00 41.11 Beta Theta Pi . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 24 570.00 40.71 Delta Chi . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . 29 12 345.00 40.58 . Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 11 361.00 40.11 Psi Upsilon .............. 46 16 475.00 32.75 Sigma Chi .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . 58 23 476.00 2~.72 Chi Psi .................. 47 20 405.00 24.54 Kappa Nu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 35 383.00 19.15 Phi· Sigma Delta ......... 45 28 127.00 13.73 719 464 $9520;95 GAZETTE PRESS Printers 4 SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 .SAY STREET Th~y have what it takes T ELEPHONE LINEMEN have the traditional Bell System spirit of service that aims to ~~get the message through.\ They also have 'What it takes in the way of equipment and supplies. Their wires, cables, poles, tools and countless other things are provided by Western Electric- maker or supplier of practically everything used in your telephone service. We carry stocks of 31,000 different items to heljl all Bell telephone people, not only to do then· daily job of main- taining and expanding telephone facilities but also to meet sudden emergencies. e W,estern Electric has been a part of the Bell System for many, many years-ever since 1882. Our people share in the System's spirit of service. We, too, are always ready to answer the unexpected hurry call-to help \get the message through.\ msrtrn Electric ' A UNIT OF THE BELL @SYSTEM SINCE 1882 Vol: 'f Tl D J \F hi~ an cil ga we ar: COl un: thE to fOJ: nit ter cer F ha'li wh' Fri con 'I to No der. bee dar :r: ced for SO] tio mE we tio :r; Ho pla the I sta nia ani cia: I ass Du ch~ WI I phi sob He ~ spi Col Ch: An Un gra Ma de~ aui arc ' ']

the of son is Vol~ 76, No. 16 'Fi,re Dance' The.me of Phi D'elt. Ben.e,fit Preparations for the . \Fire Dance\ moved to high speed this week as an Interfraternity Coun- cil committee began to or- ganize the mid winter weekend to be held Febru- ary 25 to 27. · Student . council approval was given ' unanimously Tuesday when the IFC requested permission to hold the event as a benefit for Phi Delta Theta Frater- nity whose house received ex- ' tensive damage during a re- cent fire. Frank Fleming and his orchestra have been engaged for the dance which will be held from 10 to 2 Friday, Feb. 25; James Gallagher committee chairman annoub.c.ed. ' SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1949 PRICE TEN CENTS ...-.~~ ....... --.. ........... .......-IIIII!!!!!!IJII .... , Clark Potter :Elected New l·dol Editor Reorganization of the Idol, literary magazine at Union College, under the direction of Clarkson N. Potter~ was authorized by -the · publications board last week. Turning over of the Idol to Potter followed resignation of Joseph Enzer as editor and George Zopf as managing editor. Enzer's resignation was · technically necE:>ssitated by a ruling in November of the committee on student standing by virtue of which he was prohibited from participat- ing in any activity until the end of the present term. 'Zopf attributed his resignation to the press of personal duties. IDOL REORGANI~ATION Ticket prices have been lowered to $4.00 per couple, tax included. The Idol will undergo a complete No speciai tickets for married stu- . reorganization during the next few ' dents or others will be available weeks, according to Clarkson N. because of the benefit nature of the Potter, recently appointed editor of dance. the magazine to succeed Joseph Departing from the usual pro- , Enzer. cedure this dance will be semi- . Speaking at an organizational formal, meeting on Wednesday, Potter 1 • · stated that any moan who held a L • N Head position: on the old staff will retain . OVIRCJ ew · it, provided his work continues to Of Rad . ··o· Stat·.on be of good quality. The new editor plans to put out two issues of Franklin B. Loving, a . Superiorit~ thed. IMdol nesxt semi ~ster; itz: March Sophomore' Was e 'lected sta. an ay. evera mnova 10ns are planned, including a cash prize for tion manager of WRUC a,t a The cartoon, reproduced above appeared on a bulletin board the best piece of materi·al in each membership meeting last on Old Chapel. Tuesday. Yesterday Chaplain C. Victor issue. week following the resigna- Brown shyly admitted that he had clipped it from Motive, All students interested in work- tion of Robert Hartwell. a Methodist magazine and had cause'd it to be posted for ing on the. business or editorial bl . . . \ , st<Ufs of the Idol are requested to No other staff chariges occurred. pu lC InspectiOn. * attend the meetings of the respec- However, other officers will be re- , placed at the regular elections in Hell, Chaplain, don't be shy about it. The cartoon applies· tive ·staffs at 4:00 on Tuesday, Feb. the spring. ·here. But let's go a step further. As far as Union is con- 8 • and Wednesday, Feb. 9 · . Loving joined the radio station cerned, the cartoon applies not only to the students pictured staff in September, 194 7, as a fresh- in it but also to many members of the faculty and administra-. T p T •t• man. After a training period as an 0 ay . Ul 10n . announcer, he was given charge of tion. classical music programs. T k th t 1 t f · 1 Th 1 · t At Dewey Hall In December, 1948, he was named a e e s earn p an ' or examp e. ere are comp am s . . assistant to the station manager. from all quarters abo1,1t its smoke, its noise, its ugliness. Tuition for the second. semester During the past year he has had Students passing it on their w~y to class remark vaguely will be collected at Dewey Hall charge of all staff parties of 'that something should be done about it. Administration of- Tuesday, Feb. 8, through Friday, WLRU~. 'd t f Philadel ficials mention it as a necessary eyesore. Faculty me. mbers Feb. 11 • according to a recent an- ovlng, a res1 en o - . . f f f th nouncement of Anthohy Hoadiey, phia, came to Union from high openly ~dvocate ltSrelflOVal. to a· ar, . ar ~orn~r 0 ? campus comptroller. Tuition and fees due school with no radio experience: so that 1.t might function. Without obtrudmg mto their teacup at that time will amount to $236. He is 1.9 years old. world. · Students liVing in the college cior- ---Q World Federation Needed:Meyer Wednesday night under the. au~ spices of Freedom Form:n, Mr. Cord Meyer, Jr. spoke in Memorial Chapel on the subject of \Peace or Anarchy.\ Mr. Meyer, president of United World Federalists, Inc. graduated from Yale to join the Marine Corps where he had a great deai of war experience. He is the author of the book i•peace or .Axl- archy.\ The speaker bega;1 with an analy- Wontinued· on Page 4) ' ' mitories Will also paY' their third Let's face it, chums; when we float Ol,lt of our classrooms . quarter's room rent which varies laden with theory and are. brought ·up short py the hideous from $30 to $45. Chemists w)lo are heating plant, we are seeing reality. We are seeing the starting Chemistry 1, 11, 12a or 2'3b exterior .. world as it is, with its !rrime·and smoke. will be billed for laboratory de- ~ posits of $1fr, $20, $25 and $11'~ re,.. Just r~l!ently there was much complaint about the flood spectively. Students are reminded of Chris. tmas seals which appeared bn the campus through that a cliarge Of $5 is made 0 ~ bills that are not paid on time. the mails. T).lere was talk of some sort of academic treason All veterans whose training ~ime J,:>ecause a Umon ,College student list l:lad fallen' into the hands will run out during the second of the Schenectady county tuberculosis organiz.ation. It semester are reminded by Wilford seems college officials were upset because students were H. Ket~, veterans counselor, that f f th t 'd ld their GI benefits under PL 346 will pestered by requests ·or money rom · e ou Sl e wor , · be limited to their tuition ($250), All this but a few weeks after the chest x-ray machine in or a portion of their tuition. These students will have to pay for their (Continued on page 2) own fees a~d books; ..

I I 2 QJnnrnr Membe!' Associated Col- legiate Press anp distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. ~ationai Ativo,r- ti:;ing- Repre~t.:ntativt·: NJ- tional Advertising service, Inc., .College l'ublish.-1·s HeprP!'c:>tttati\·P. 4:!0 :\TaliiM son Ave .. ~. Y .. C. Pul>- li~hed ~very Friday uf the school year. / foJditorial Office, Washburn Hall. Union College, l'ul;>· :lea tion Office, The Ga- zette Pr•ss, 334 State St. E11tered ill thl\l S(•heneP- t:ulv l'oot Office· a\ Sec- orH{ Clas~ 1\lail ~Intler. fHlh\'cription lOc a copy; $3 ~-,·ar ; delivered ~rtY· where in the United States George T. Orick Editor Jarni'S Murray Managing Editpr Jaml'~ Ettingl'r Spot•ts Editor Het•bert Saxe News Editor 'Villiam McGarry, Sam :~joscoe Feature Editors · Robert Heinemann Lambert Ginsberg Photo Editot• Business Managex· Albert Corbo, James 'Baar Associate Editors FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1949 Registration for Second Semester Saturday, Feb. 5 at Registrar's Office, Administration Building 9-1·0 a.m.-Former students returning. Sunday, Feb. 6 at Gymnasium All students now enrolled in college (including special and graduate students}\ Those whose last names begin with: A thru Di at ...... 1:30 p.m. Do thm Hof at. ... 2~30 p.m. Hog thru Mic at.' ... 3:30 p.m. Mil thm Sh at ...... 4:30 p.m. Si thru Z at ........ 5:30 p.m. Inasmuch as registration has been so arranged that students· need not return to the campus until Sunday, the registrar's office has announced it is imperative for each student to report promptly at the designated hour. No schedule adjustments will be made Sunday except for those made necessary by I).rst semester failures, it was an- nounced. I It Was -Reported By R., A. Navias i'------------r--- ' Many gripes and much grumbling Mr. Mcilwaine went on to say that have reached u,s lately concerning Mr. Mathias and the plant crew the college heating plant. People have done an outstanding job of have said that the smoke often seen keeping the plant running while ' coming out of the smoke stack putting the complex machinery and (Continued from page 1) shows the negligent attitude of the 'controls into proper order. And Superiority Schenectady's city hall was made available to photograph the college officials on the problem -of steam has been maintained despite Iun~rs o.f all of us at Union. smoke in Schenectady. Mention several mechanical breakdowns. All ~ was made by some one that the steam plants, Mr. Mcilwaine told It is no secret that the Christmas seal people send their smoke precipitator which was sup- us, have trowble during the first product to all members of their community. Here is a clear posed to be installed, had actually year of operation. That milch time example of our withdrawal from reality. never been put in operation, and is usually needed for 'the plant probably would not be. personel to learn how to run the in- Not so long ago plans were announced for a state traffic In an effort to cheok these re- stalla'tion at.· maximum efficiency thruway which would cut off a small corner of the pasture ·port11, we went ovei\ to thEl heating and to put the machinery and con- behind the Schenectady Public Library. Hands of students plant. and talk.ed to ·MI\. Willi;:tm. tl\ols into proper running order. and faculty alike were thrown up in horror that the state ~ath1as, supermtendent of bUI}d- In view of the difficulties under • • . mgs and grounds. Mr. Mathias which Mr. Mcllwaine, Mr. Mathias, would consider such a thmg. True, the argument was ad- said that \there has been trouble and the heating plant crew have vanced tha:t our campus is small enough as it is,-but the with the heating plant.\ But he bad to work, this column! whole- undertone of nearly all the griping was fear of invasion by went on to say .that the trouble heartily commends them for their those masses who do not live on our ivory-walled island thus far enco~nte:ed has b:en nor- efforts in keeping us warm. Many • mal for b!,'eakmg m a new mstalla- thanks. • And there's still another example. A couple of weeks ago tion of this type. The smoke, which a Union College student, who had a mild attack of infantile man;yo have complained about, is paralysis last summer, checked with the Schenectady office .m~inly cleared of soot by mech- Rea.der· wr.·tes f th · N t• 1 F d t• f lnf t\l p 1 · t \f amcal means, whj.ch have been re- O e a JOlla . OUn a lOU . or an I e ara YSIS 0 ~ee 1 cently put into operation. Further he could help With the campus angle of the March of D1mes. · reduction of soot is possible Memorandum for George Orick Sure, they told him, we appreciate your offel'. ' through proper combusion. Proper Concerning the article on your S h k d f bl\ •t WRUC d t ld th t th combustion for a plant is only de- front page entitled \New Angle on 0 e as e or pu ICl Y over an was 0 a e termined by experiment with draft G.I. Subsistence'' perhaps it should campus chest had a monopoly on .soliciting of funds here. and type and size of coal. Sine~ be pointed out that all absences This was confirmed by the recorder's office, which advised between fifteen and twenty tons of from school in excess pf five days him to see the president. Mr. Davidson suggested that he coa! are burn~d every day, it ·is not are repo-rted to the Veterans Ad• see the student councif. He couldn't wait a week and a half a S!lnple chore to abrubtl;yo change ministration supposedly for action f 'I . · d coals. terminating subsistence for ab- or a counc1 meetmg, so he tol his story to the coordinator In an interview with Mr. T. R. sences in excess of these days.. I of student activities, who suggested that he see the chaplain, Mcl;lwaine, assistant comptroller, would assume that no subsistence faculty advisor of the campus chest. He was next sent to he said that the heating plant was would be paid, possibly for the the student head of the campus chest who informed him put into operation before many of entire 25 days that Carll might that unallocated funds might be directed toward the Mm•ch the Mrmal construction \bugs\ have spent in jail. of Dimes if the chest group so decided-in a few weeks. were worked out of the system. Wilford H. Ketz. Meanwhile, he can do nothing, for the fact remains that he cannot set up a March of Dimes contribution box on the sacred campus. - A:ll of this adds up to a reluctance of the college to parti- cipate in community activities, except, of course when city detectives are allowed· to investigate fraternity house burg- laries, or when city firemen .are allowed to extinguish fires in campus buildings. ' So, next time we walk by the steam plant, let's not regard it as a repugnant mechanical device which doesn't belong here. Let's feel refreshed that the world of reality has at least one toehold on our cloud of superior theory. On fhe Way Out? Dare we assume that the reduction in chapel poiht re- quirements from 40 to '30, made, apparently, foi; the relief of those who take hour examinations at noon, is in reality a step toward the weakening and eventual death of the Union College Compulsory Culture System? .. WE KNOW YOU WILL .ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY. JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For 'NAT..CHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens 12nd the Finest Gifts Corner !)fa~ .. and Center Sts. FRIDA~ Q sw Me Befor trniven the Un .ords, C victo·rio their fi: Sa turd~ erial I cGncen1 ping fo they f~ The an exc only to hatn.pe1 this WE top ph~ Howev' who w; gate \ possi>bl ester. The snare Raider among John I scorer 44o ya strokel Johnso places. Jim 220 an Union Gene 1 Paul : Berbel and I backst ) Tl Call u I c Cc .-

at ~w of .le ld ld te dl ld st 1e nt n- }y n- Ill' >n ld es rs d~ >n .b- I ce lle ht FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1949 3 Quintet To Play ·rwo Tilts On Road - . Sw·immers To Meet u of R ~~-,........,...__---\--!~Sherwin on Casualty Roster: Hockey Meets Cancelled G t PI d b I • • Before an overpowering Colgate University squad which bettered all the Union College swimming rec- ords, Coach Ray Mullane's twice victo·rious natators bowed 58-17 f0r their first defeat of the season last· Saturday afternoon in Foote Mem- orial Pool. The Garnet are now ccmcentra ting their efforts in prep- ping for Rochester University, who they face tomorrow at Rochester. ' Sa.mal May Swim The Yellowjackets also present an excellent team which has lost only to Colgate. Heavy colds have· hampered several of the,....merrnen this week and Union will not be in top physical condition for this meet. However, Co-captain Mike Samal, who Wfi.S out of action against Col- gate with a fractured hand, may '· possibly be used against Roch- ester. \ Isbiste1· Tops Scoring The Dutchmen were unable to snare any firsts against · the Red Raiders but they took four seconds among the seven individual races. John Isbister was Union's top point scorer with seconds in the 220 and 440 yard free style races. Breast- stroker Jqe Tofel and diver Dick Johnson scored the other runner-up places. Jim Courter took thirds in the 220 and 440 behind Isbister. Other Union point scorers w:ere all thirds•; Gene Benmen ill the 50 yarli .sprint, Pau.l Sharidan in the dive, John Berbert in the 100 yard free style, and Dan Mead in the 150 yard backstroke. A new address- The same service--- reliable and competent Call 3-6700 • Union Cleaners Prompt Delivery Service LANGE & RAPP PharJ!Iacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET Because of Poor Weather . arne .•. Clf!~Ue Y n1Ur1e5 Once again victims of the un- The injury-ridden Union College hoopsters, minus the seasonable weather conditio·ns which llave been prevalent valuable services -of \·Cookie\ Sherwin, resume their activi- throughout the northeast this ties after being idle for a month when they engage the He- winter, the Union College hockey .. bart Statesmen in Geneva tonight, and then travel to Roch- team was forced to cancel its · ester tomorrow to play the rugged Rivermen. tVi!b games scheduled for this -~------------~ week. Sherwin May Be Lost For Season ~ Lack of ice caused Massachu- .Sherwin, who has been suffering the Garnet quintet topped the setts St~te and Cornel! to call pain from an old foot injury for Orange in a tight battle 44-38. The off their .contests scheduled for several weeks, may be forced to probable starting five for the . yesterday and tomorrow. Last -finish out the rest of the season on Ditchmen will be composed of Jim week's game with Champlain the sidelines, although he has a Pemrick, Dick Speidel, Tim Shea, was also cancelled for the same strong desire to play. He will de-· Bill Kasnowski, and Dick Roberts. .re<;tsori:. The next game is sched- finitely not participate in the week- :Rochester Strong uled for February 5· <;tgainst end games, accotding to. Coach With nine lettermen returning Champlain on Union's horne Pete Nistad. Sherwin has been in- from last year's squad, Rochester rink. valuable under the backboard, and will floor a formidable team Coach Art Lawrence held his has more than. once made up for against the visiting Unton College first outdoor pr8ftiCe on Wed- the height advantage of visiting basketeers. The Rivermen have nesday on a pond at the Mo- teams. He also stands fourth in won five out of nine starts against J:J,awk Golf Club, and was very . ·. scoring with 33 points for six strong opposition. This will be the impressed by the performance games. 43rd meeting between the schools, ot two new additions to the Several otlier members of the. with Union on the short end, hav- squad, Bob Dyroff and. Roger squad are also nursing injuries, but ing won only sixteen. Last year Turrtier. Lawrence said tllat on will make the weekend trip. Bill the Yellowjackets outpointed the tlle whole the team looks. good Grant and Tim Shea have been Garnet quintet 64-57. · and commented on the fine spirit hampered because of sprained Dangerous Donhue of cooperation shown by the ankles, and Pick Roberts has· been · The big gun in the Rochester at- merpbers desipte hardships. favoring a bruised heel. Pete Nis- tack is a 6'2\ guard, Jack Donhue, Eleven Game Lacrosse Schedule Is Complete Union College lacrosse coach Vic Starze!lski, this week, ;:tnnounced a tough eleven game schedule, which has been arranged for his \noggin-knockers\ in the spring. The schedule is as follows: April 16, Williams; April 23, Hobart; April 30, Cornell; May 4, Syracus~.;_ May 7, Hamilton;· May 11, Darto. mouth; May 14, Williams; M~;ty 18, R.P.I.; May 21, Stevens; May 25, Colgate, and May 28, Lehigh. As a highlight to their Winter training period, the Lacrossernen traveled to New York over the chril\tmas vacation and dropped a well-played decision to the Seventh Regiment Armory squad 13-7 in a. box lacrosse encounter· in the Arm- ory. Cleaners and Dyers Ball''s· Shoe , Inc:. BebuUaers 633 Sto11te St. 204 Union St.· PHONE 6-3456 Call Ball and Ball Will Call FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 1911 ~A\\\\ 1 sSO\\~ {)\\\\~ JAVST.JlWUiPS tad hopes these men w:lll round who has been averaging 18 points into shape, as their services will be a game and is expected to set a sorely needed in the series. new school scoring record. Another Hobart Has Poor Record big cog in the Rivermen offense is The Statesmen have compiled a Scotty Norris, a 6'1\ forward, who not too impressive record, garner- has been chalking up about 15 ing only three wins in nine at- markers per game. tempts. Their most recent effort-lr,::::::=;;:;;;=~========~ was a 59-53 triumph over Clarksop., on Tuesday. Despite their rather poor record. Coach Nistad expects p~nty of opposition on a .[JIDall ' band-box .court. This will be the A Sweetheart Pin is a Treasured Xmas Gift. 15th meeting of the two colleges Delight your Best Girl with a since 1909, with U11ion winning beautiful crested gift or miniar eight and ~obart six. Last year ture Swl[letheart Pin. GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING Wi STATE ST • .....Since 189S GUERRA'S PHARMACY \,) Fountain Prescriptions Sundries CARL SORENSEN so Murray Ave., Waterford, N.Y. Telephone _Waterford 644 L!l G. Balfour Co. FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 111 !5 BARRETT STREET GOOD FOOD? Try Elmer's Restaurant 149 Barrett St. \ Where Union Men Are II· 166 Jay Street II ,_6_o_o_u_n_i_on-St_.,_c_o_r_. _Ba_r_re_tt_s_+-.~. Always W~lcome

