'49 Lith )ke !d's .pel lin• ink cter of rlls, is to out the 1nd 1nd. uch lrrg ped the the 111ho the lves ded Sta Wri- the nee lac- and ~. a a- Y. Vol. 76, No •. ·23 U ... · .. n1on,: RPI··Will. .Concur . . . .fi' o~mled at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N. Y •• FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 1'949 Mys·tery Hour Cast • trnsts· PRICE 10 CENTS Insurance Plan For Seniors To ·ne Tested Govt. Expert Will Speak Harold Van de Car, directo~ of financial development, expressed deep apprj!Ciation of the efforts Of the class of 1949 in aiding the pro- gram of the college especially the apparent willingness of the seniors to participate in the class endow- ment insuranee program. Van de Car noted that, even after the re- cent field house drive, the elass is showing exceptional spirit in the insurance plan. ONE OF THE REASONS that the plan is being begun this year is the fact that the class of 1949 has been so cooperative, van de Car said •. The class will be pioneer- ing in its efforts with the insurance plan which: iJl the result of much study of the plans in nse in other colleges. Princeton has an average income annually of $102,000 while Vassar is anticipating about $40,000 this year from a similar plan Van de Car explained. .Applicati<Cns for the insurance Program will be accepted any time until June 1. The. program wnr dtlfinitely continue to be a policy of the college, Van de Car stated.

1, i . I I I, I • I ·\ 2 Qtnurnr · Member Associated Col- .· leglate Press and distri- butor or the Col!c>gia te Digest. Natlonhi Adver- tising Representative: Na- tional Advertising Ser\'lee, Inc., College Publi~hers Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College. Pul>- Iiea tlon Off!Pe, Tl1e da- zette Pross, 334 State St. Entered 'in the Schenec- tady l'o>t Office as Sec- ond Class !\fail Matter, sub<criptlon 10c a copy; $3 year: delivered any- where in the United States. · Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- 'lished every l<riday of the school year. S.E:>IOH BO.UW JA~l-ES MUHilAY ........................... Editor UEO!UlE '!'. (I[Ui'K ............. 1-:<litor l•:m~rl.'u< H EfUlER'I' ~AX!·:... .. ... -\'\\''iate l~dtt~>t JA:I!ES t-;TTI~GJ·;H...... . ....... , :;purt' l·~dn••r SA~!CE!'. ll<•Sl\ul·:...... .. ..... l•eatule l·~d!tor HOBEHT :\.\ \'1.\:-i ................... l'h\t\ 1-.dltor \\'ILL!.\~[ THAYI-:IL .Ar·till): L'in·ul:ttJtlll :lfanager LEU~ \\\HISHL\H(~II .....• \cttug Hw-tnt·~ :\lauag~::r Jl':'i!OH BOA HIJ James Br~\Qil JattJl':-. (':trll, lh•ll :\1 t'.regkr. Wulf-gang Ht~mer. H-E l'OHTEHS Jay Cohn. \Vayne llavi~. !Jntwlcl Guertin, Irrii.•g Handler, .. h·I'Oillt' Klt_•ill, I lon.dcl Sdl\.\at tz . .:\Ial'llll ::5lt:gcl, Fntuk !Stl'lll, \\'illald '1\.t)!ut l'IIOTO STAFF RoL~rt llL·JUt:m:lHll, l!:\ ~til l!i~o:hyud~. ::khwartl, (ieorhe ;..: \\'t~utll uff Bl'St:-;Ess SL\1-'F Frederid< llc\·an, I:mtou «;ru ... J..:y, L~·~~ Kup~;;>t~( hndd. Stua.rt H. :\Ierrialll. Kt·nll•·th s. Slwlrlon, Jr !'IIHTL.\TIO:> STAF'F Henry L>twat. Jt:'rom~ tiartllt·r, H~~Uert. (ftn.ttlh .. ~· Ricltal'd Philtt>!J, Lieutge He<illlgtull, Alfied :;;Ie,d. Hobt:t·l Strand, \Yil!l.un \\.ill' l1t·:-ll'r. l~Jd1~Ud \ Dltll.~ J.\.111·.:-. lltt\:-.0:\, l\ll\ Ed!Lur Tolerance We do not deny Dr. Carpenter or any other 1 person the right to express his philosophy in chapel. We must, howe\·er, say that we find Dr. Carpenter to be a dogmatic Christian who created ill feeling among the non-Chris- tians in our student body b;; taking- such an initating-ly narrow point of view. We deny that Christianity has a prel'Ogative on sci- entific progress or on social advancement. We deny that everyone must be converted to Christianity .. Tolerance on .the part of do-gooders would aid progress more than any material achievements. 1 Officer Elections As announced in last week's issue, peti- . tions fo1· rlass officers and student council elections must be in the Student Activities Office by next \Vednesday. Elections for class officers will be held on April 20 which means that next week's Concordiensis will be the last before these officer elections. We will give you as full information as possible · on the candidates. Also, to insure .rour get- ting a copy before leaving for vacation, the copies will be distributed starting at noon Friday. The Reader Writes To Whom It May Concern: It s.eems to me that the traffic situation on the campus is being run on a kindergarten level. I received a ticket for illegal parking in front c·f North College. A search for a \no parking\ sign ended in complete failure. How, pray tell, is:' one supposed to know that there is no parking on that road? Just a few minutes later, 1 noticed that a car was tag~ed in front of the Psychology Building. The car did not belong to a student, but to an outsider who was concucting business in that building. How could he know that no parliing was permitted there? I then promptly went up to ttle Dean's office with the tiCket. I inquired· about the legality of parking in frc·nt of North College, and was immedi- ately given the answer that there was no parking on that road. I then put the question \How was I to know when there are no signs there telling me that I can't park?\ I was then given the an- swer that there just is no parking in that area, and that I should go down to the Comptroller's office and pay a $1.00 fine. ln all fairness to the students and the people whc· do business \l.·ith the college ar.d people who con:e down from all parts to visit stu- dents, I say the colle~e should put up signs stating j whether or not parking is pe1 mittcu on the seve1 a! I roac's that run through the campus. I do admit thnt there arc sumc signs posted un 1 the <\ainpu• in sr·m<' nr<>ns that ~tate either parking I for f\t'ulty m<'mh<'r• or parking· for s't udents. But even thP!\e sigM are not kept up. I noticed that all year in back of Hale House there was one sign that said \parking betw£>en signs for faculty and staff only.\ Where is the other sign? I beliE>\'e that the college should do something to remPdy this situation. I suggest thnt the ad- . ministration take the following steps to ameliorate the present traffic situation on the campus: (1) Es- tablish a central Union College parking area on the college pasture for students and faculty. (2) Bar all students who live on campus from using their cars to drive to and from classes. <3) Properly place signs clearly defining parking areas, \no parking\ signs included. • ALAN FISHBONE Dear Editor: Here is a thought for the consideration of Victor Starzenski (Reader writes, March 25). If he could persuade the lacrosse team not to plow up the \Library Field green when 1t is soft, as it is at the present time, it would help to imprCJove the grounds . from the asethetic viewpoint.\ · · A -careful inspection of the green will reveal to Mr. Starzensld that the damage to the grass is gen- erally at the center of the field where the lacrosse team \plays off,\ and at the enris of the field where the lacrosse goal nets are usually placed. Why should the student body reserve the plowing of Library Field sColely for the athletic groups? A. WILLIAM KUNKEL . FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 1949 For Your Information Th Gosp· e· I Saturda,y, April 2-ASCE (Student Conference)-CC, : .. e . : l- 6 p.m. By ,JOSEPH.ENZ~R at the magazine and hels reading in to d;ink, just -for the hell or\ lt • • • Outing Club Dance-Gym, 8:8D-midnight. the· article apout college bull ses- the way his crowd used to but Swtday, Apl\il 8-Sundil.y Service-P;'eacher, The April lst, 1949 sions that was in the issue. When maybe they're drinking because Rev. C. Victor Brown, MC, Noon. Dear Palyi I hands him -the drink he looks and :they got something .on their mind. Organ Recital-Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, 4 p.m. It's been a long time since you says t guess _you·ve seen quite a These days are sure bad enough to Union Service-Union College and the Schenec• . was in for a glass of beer and to i 30 few generation ·Of college boyl! n make anybody want to fo~get and tady County Council of Churches, MC, 7: ·: spend some time chopping the your time. And I tell him I've seen there ain't no quicker no bettet• p.m. Speaker, Dr. Paul Hutchinson, Editc•r, gums, but I guess you must 1 be t d a few. And he sayl! the boys o ay way than hitting the ()id bottle, \The Christian Century.\ pretty busy witl;l school work or are certainly diffe!nt from 'the !But of course .I don't like to see ,. Glee Club Concert - Second Presbyterian something because I don't think h d Church, Amste!'dam. you're the sort that forgets a ·pal. gang he went to so .col wit an the kids get too much of it, because Monday, April 4--Daily Assembly-Speaker, C. Gra- I know -it's l'ind of funny my writ- I loolt him over pretty careful and too mucp of that stuff will sur•e t I tell pr•etty quick like that he ain't· put you away for a long time. ham Martin, MC, Noon. ing like this to you but some h ng f d t 1 Placement Interviews-Pennsylvania Railroad, happened last week that got me been in no school or a _goo weve BUT SOMEHOW the kids of .to- (For Engineers under 24), Wells House. · th-inking and I though if I could or fifteen _yea_rs. We .then shot the day are diffeJ;ent fro!ll the ·Older Glee Club Rghearsal~MC, 4:30 p.m. . talk to you maybe we could un- bteeze baclt and forth for a couple boys but I don't thin-It they're any Band Rehearsai'-Trophy Room, 7:30 p.m. · derstand it a; little better because. of minutes while he -finishes hiS .wo-rse as a matter of fact I like the Philomathean Society-English Reading Room, it's something that ·'ought to in- drink and ordet\s another .one of kids t()day better. When the boys 7:30. terest a kid )ike you J;eaciy- to finish the same kind. ~ walk in the bar today they ain't Foreign Movie-\Seventh Veil\ with James Ma- school and go out in the world and . DURING THE TIME ·he's had ,afraid to.mix with the regul'ar cus- sc·n. OC, 4:30 and 7·:30 p.m. · knoclt the old geezers on the out- four or five of these, him and me· tomers and I like that because any Alpha Phi Omega-Bailey Hail, 201. side for a loop. are still gabbing about the differ- man -who comes Into my bar .and Thursday Musical Club - Fredericli JageJ,. B.UT WHNI' !~was saying is that ence in the college -kids Of today gets served is as good as any other Tenor, MC, 8:30 p.m. Tickets at dol)r. one night last week I'm .in the par and the boys of his time. He seemed guy who drinks with me and I Tuesday, April 5-Speaker, Mr. James R. Rowe of and the place is pretty empty. I to be pretty hepped up on the go-od don't like people being snobbish in the Hoover Commission, MC, Noon. remember now it was Tuesday old days and how his generation .of !XlY place. Now the boys in the old Placement Meeting-Sillirnan Hall, 1:15 p.m. night since all the boys were .out college boys were so much bet'ter d.ays they used to come in and sit Conference on Hoover Commission Report, 6C; bowling and there was still some than the. kids today. I don't like to in the back of the place all by 2:30 p.m. . time before they'd bevback for a argue w.ith any customers particu- themselves and .. they'd be singing AIEE <Student Bra!lch)-EE 22, 7:30 p.m. few beers and some sandwiches. larly some stranger that walks into~ their songs and talking their Interfraternity Cc·unc\ii-113 P13ychology Lab .. I was in the corner behind the ])ar the bar for the first time. After all special kind of fancy talk and it 7:30 p.m. ·sitting en the stool and . reading it don't look right and so I just would make me and. the rest .of . Foreign Movie-\Seventh Veil\ with James the latest copy of Life magazine let him talk and I nod my head and :the customers feel as- though we MPscn, OC, 4:30 and 7:30 p.m. when this real nice loo'king guy say a couple of things that won't _didn't belong there. But the kids Flying Club-CE 304, 7:15p.m. walks in and plops down in front bother him too much. But after he today they come in and they talk \VPdnl'sday, April 6 - Non-denominationai Lenten of men and orders a Manhattan. left and when the buys start com\ to you and they know the rest of Services, MC, Noon. No point credit. He's a sharp looking guy with nice · ing back from bowling I remember the customers apd it makes it nice Help Program-Old Chapel, Noon. quiet clothes and you could tell he what he says and I start thinking and homey like. And if the boys Ql('e Club Rehearsal-Me, 4:30 p.m. ai!l't li-ke the regular customers in about you kids of today and I begin got anything serious to .talk about Glee Club Advisory Committee-English Read- the joint. He's just full of class and to get all i'iled up about what this they say it in front .of the other ing Room, 7:30 p.m. ' you can almost smell it on him and guy was telling me. And it's been ·customers and they don't feel as YWCA and YMCA Institute, Old Chapel, 7:30. · I knew f.or sure he had the goods bc-thering me all this week. though the~\re any better. Placement Meeting-Mutual Life- Insurance Co. cause when he asks for this Man- He's right I 'have been around Why years ago I used to see the Silliman Hall, 7:30 p.m. hattan as nice as you .please· he the bars with college kids for a kids come in especially on Saturday Thursd!ly, April.,. 7-Daily Assembly-Speaker. Prof, says make that with bonded Bour- .Jong time and I've seen quite a few night with t:heir dates and they'd Harold-Way, MC, Noon. bon if you have it. of them in my day and somehow be talking and yeliing and singing Fraternity Night. So I goes over and gets the bottle I d.on't go along with what he says, and they'd be talkfng this fast and American Assn. University Professors. Hale of Old Forrester which we keep . I don't think the kids are as bad fancy talk particularly in front of House Lounge, 8 p.m. for some special customers and as he 13ays. Sure so they are more the girls . and of course the girls Outing Club and Schenectady Winter· Sports makes the drink. When I bring it serious and perhaps when they' would be· talking just as fancy. Club-MC, 8 p.m. over to him I see he's been looking come in to drink they ain't corning (Continued on Page 8) Friday, Api'il 8-Daiiy Assembly-Recital. Dr. E. A. .:.:..:.:_.:.::.-=.:=:_:__:_:..:.__::._:_:_ ___ __::_:_ __________ ~------'--~----------=------ Tidmarsh, MC, Noon. Glee Club Rehearsal-Me .. 4:30 p.m. IRC-English Reading Room, 7:30 p.m. Cosmopolitan Club---'Silliman Hall, 7:30 p.m. Faculty Meeting <ith Trustees) EE 22, 7:30 p.m . Cambrian Male Chorus-MC, 8:30. Ermio Bi- nnchi. tenor Student tickets 50 cents frc-m Miss Travis. Saturday, April 9-Spring Recess begins at Noon. Varsity LaCrosse-Union vs. Army at Schenec- tady, 2:30 p.m. YWCA Water Ballet, Gym. 8;15 p.m. Tickets $1.10. .. DORMITORY NOTICE ........................ . Request cards for dormitory room reservations for· the SEPTEMBER, 1949-FEBRUARY, 1950 term will be distributed to dormitory students on J.Y.!:onday, April 4. Other students may obtain cards from the. Comptroller's Office en that date. These reservation cards are to be returned to Miss Fl\rr ing in the Comptrolkr's Office beginning Thurs- day, April 7. and will not be accepted before that date. Room assignments will be made begir.ning, Wednesday, April 20. -.. __ _,_ Dear Sir, Any implications drawn from the March 29th Tuesday noon chapel program lead to the conclusion that Union College is just as likely to graduate one- eye-minded missionaries as any other institution. As confirmed Heliolaters, I and my fellow ad- herer.ts naturally feel slighted. Since we are truly the open minded people of the universe, and since we worship that source from which all things are del\ived and to which all things can ultimately be traced, we feel that our righteous indignation is per- fectly justified. Dr. George Carpenter, a Union Col- lege graduate and Christian missionary in the Bel- ~iart Cor.go, cast some rather indirect aspersions at us sun-worshippers by stating that laudable human qualities essential for world .,peace must be im- planted in the souls of all non-Christian lJeoples. He maintained that if we are going to establish a free, peaceful, happy world, then we must spread the see0s of Christianity; we must have more Christians. I know not how the Buddhists in attendance felt. It doesn't matter, they're likely to be as bad as Christians. There must have been some Jews at~ tl'nding this· Tuesday indoctrination, but after all they are not Heliolaters either. We, the only true hPli<>vPrl', the only hope of the world, were maligned, and thRt is all that matters. i'\·c roundly and soundly denounce the notion that this indefinable hor.esty and virtue of Gcod. is an in- h.--r~nt quality of Christianity, and of Christianity Rinne. Helios himself has ordained that these mal- teachings are .attempts to usurp his power; that the achievements claimed by others are rightfully his, Rnd we must therefore gaze indefinitely into his re- spl('ndent celestial glow until we are quite blinded to al lothr dogma. The effect of printing this letter shall se'rve as partial recompense for the wounds we have suffered. Proselytingly yours, RICHARD BODE, Chief Beliolatrisj. Missibnary Student Loan Seniors ar·e requested to sign their Student Loan Note at the tiwe they pay their graduation fee. The graduatic·n fee should be paid on or before April 19. Students not planning to return next fall are requested to stop at the Comptroller's Office to. sign a Student Loan Note covering amoun-t they may have borrowed. from any of the loan: funds. March 30, 1949 . Graduation Fee Graduation fee of $15 will be payable at the Comptroller's Office on or before Tuesday, April 19. Veterans who wish to have this charged against· their G.I. Bill should obtain a credit slip from Mr. Ketz and present this at the Comptrollet·'ll Office in payment of their graduation fee. It Was Rumored The Rathskeller Drive has start-~·--------------------~~--------­ ed off with much enthusiasm. The basement of Old Chapel for the Rathskeller committee, headed· by operation of a student club or re- Thomas C. Elliott, has received freshment center, which option is contributions amounting to slightly to be exercised by 1 October, 1949. ovr fifteen hundred dollars. This If the option is exercised, the col- sum is half of the goal set by the lege is to build a second entrance committee, and is the amount need- and install lavatories. The student -ed to start construction. So far so council is to be absolutely responsi- good, but plans seem to have hit ble for the student club or refresh- a snag. The Rathskeller says they ment center which is not to be a have the money to l;legin construe- private bee; club or an independ- tJon, but the college isn't doing ent organization.\ anything. Why~ What are they The student council voted to ap- waiting for? What's the holdup? point a- committee to investigate And by this time, th~ _rum~r h~s the possibilities of a Rathskeller. spread that the ·admimstrahon IS The c-c•mmittee was named by Presi- hclding up the plans for the Rath- dent Pemrick, with Thomas Elliott skeller by doing nothing:. Or, the as chairman. The committee sub- administration isn't doing anything mitted a preliminary report at the on their part of th_~ Rathskeller be- student council meeting on 11 Jail- cause they never mtended to, and uary, 1949. At that meeting, the now they've been caught off base student council voted that \the by the spurt of student support. Or Rathskeller be run as an activity maybe the administra,tion has · · · under the jurisdiction of the stu- Before we jump on our horses dent counciL A senior member of and go galloping off in all direc- the student council will be a mem- tions at once, let's consider a few ber of the executive committee.\ facts in the-case. The first official The council also moved that \an in• word is from the executive commit- terested group draw up a constitu- tee of the board of trustees which, tion and present it to the counciL\ af: recorded in the student ·council On 15 February, 1949; in a minutes of 14 December, 1948, says, meeting of the student council, the \The executive committee of the proposed Rathskeller· Constitution board of trustees voted to give the was ratified with amendments, and student council an option on the on February 16, Kenneth N. Mciver, secretary of the student council, sent a letter to Dr. Carter David- son, Informing him in part that \this letter is to jnform you that it is the pres!lnt intention of the student council to exercise its option on the basement of Old Chapel as offered by the board of trustees. We will notify yoU when sufficient funds have been raised in order that you ·may begin con- struction work as previously agreed to by the trustees.\ The student council, being in ab- solute control of the Rathskeller, has not informed the college ad- ministration that construction on t:he pr.oject is ready to begin. The student council has not decided what sum is necessary to begin construction. Ali estimates of finan- cial requirements have so far, been made by the committee headed by Thomas Elliott. The , college has not done any- thing about the Rathskeller plans simply because the student coun- cil has not informed them tnat construction is ready--to begin. The sj;udent council executive commit- tee is to meet on Friday, April 1, to take action on this matter, so that plans may be put into opera- tion as soon as possible. THE FOOTWEAR OF SU(;CESSFUL ~E~ Prices 9.95 Snug is the word for these wonder- fully pliable \casuals\ .•• boldly stitched .. _ sm;lrt in any company. Concealed elastic gore hugs the in- step, adds a dressy touch to non- chalant ease. others to 19.95 FR I 1 I fo1 lib Co a Ne Bir ha tn .pe· thJ be ciE Pl: Stl sn se· ta! or. se: tic Ml he wi Ut to ch re m: zh th co pr in th to Oll he st· fu W< dr m; tu de lo be ve tll Ct st j j j nr aJ oJ br o! Sl fl Cl tl 'I

J9 it •Ut ISe ld, to nd :et• :le' lee ,. tse tre to- ler ny :he •ys n:•t llS- ny nd ter I in )!d sit by ng eir it of· we ids ilk of ice >YS >Ut 1er as :he lay y'd .ng .nd of rls cy. cil, id- mt 1at :he its )ld of ten in )ll- led 3.b- .er, 3.d- on 'he led ;in tn- 'en by lY- ms In- tat 'he Lit- 1, so ra- FRIDAY. APRIL h 1949 Library To Begin Building Iil: response to a request for bids for the construction of ·tlle new library, M-r. Helmer L. Webb,, Union College librari;J.n, announced that a low bid has been filed· by the New York contracting firm of Bidd. Bidd, an!i Morbidd. The plans have been submitted to the collegr trustees and are to be kept secret .penq:ing their approval. However the location of the new edifice has been revealed as the avea beinr cleared between t:he Delta· -:Fh·i anc' Phi Delta Tb.eta fraternity houses. TENTATIVE PLANS call for .a student lo)lnge complete with a snack\cocktail' bar. A hostess and several waitresses are to he re- · tained for the pur-pose of lteeping order and serving. The Increased services will not induce anY addi- tional strains on student budgets Mr. Webb declared. He stated that he has been playing the horse· with funds ever since he came tc . Union, and has made enough profit to finance the entire project. The requirements of the bids in- . eluded enlarged rest-room facilli:ies . replete with parking meters, auto· matic phonographs, and !i3. maga· zine stand. Mr. Webb reports that the latest unmovable; straight, un- comfortable, pyschologica.Ily ap- proved furniture will be provided in the study area for the l>enefit of tho.ae who can't adjust thems\)lves to a proper study position. ·\No one will be - comfortable now, so hours of time will be saved for study when the ·students realize the futility of continually shifting their weight,\ said Mr. Webp when ad- dressing a student demonstration outside his. office. AN OV:ERSIZED pneumatic tube tube will be connected to every desk, the 'shelyes, and the cocktail lounge. Most books, moreover, will be printed in Braille, for the con- venience of students who might re- turn from the lounge having diffi- cuty with vision and still wish to study, Piscatory Practice Planned Dean C. William Huntley an- nounced .earlier this week that among the new courses to be offered at Union next semester will be a three hour class in the history of angling, to be taught by Prof(Jil- sor Harrison C. Coffin. Plans call for a six hour weekly la.b in the course, in addition to the regular three class room hours. THE COLLEGE HAS been con- sidering offering this course for about eighty-three years, according to the dean. He ex;>lained that in 1876, the board of txustees ap• proved a plan that called for the stocking of the campus broolt:-- The first fish was placed In the brook iii. the spring of 1877; but it dis- appeared. Since that time, the college, ac- cording to the dean, has spent in the neighborhood of $73;000.00 in n vain effort to stoc'k the brook. In 1935, Dr. Dlllitri Troutsky, noted Russian authority on brook fishing,. was asked by the college to explain why the brook co1.1ld not be stocked. After an intensive study which lasted until 19a9, Dr. Trout- sky reported that the reason no fish would remain in Unlon~s brook was because the brook ran down- hill. DEAN HUNTLEY said that this technicality has been overcome since Dr. Troutsky's report and 'that he has been ,asl!ured by engi- neers that the brook will have fish all year. Dr. doffin is prepared to cope with any emergency which might arise along these lines and h~ · made tentative plans which call for putting a big net at tbe bottom of the brook. He explained that his course will cover the history of the development of angling fl'Om Gre- cian times until today. He hopes to be able to spend as much time as possible over by the brook with l:l.is classes, however. WRUC, in conjunction with a local beer COillpany, plans to offer a prize for tbe biggel!lt flilb. caught in the brook next year. 3 • • trnsts Vol. 1176, No. 13 SCHENECTADY,. N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL l, .1949 PRICE $3.90 New Character Laboratory Diape-r Laundry To Operate Here ; u 8 . v ll~New College Health P.lan · .1.-.I'ou e .1._,a 8 ' W ld ·B f·t· St d · t ,., · R ~ . ou ene 1 ·. . · u en s; .1. urnzps zse . · · . . .. . . Dr. Carter Davidson announced Prexy Says Plan Sttnks . togay that the Achilles house at · 1181 Avon Road would be torn down to make room fQr a turnip patch. This move, J?r. Davidson ·said, was in line' with· the zoning regulations which prohibit use o'f the house by Dr. Ernest M. Ligon and the character research project, Athletes and John Weiss Offered Clean Comforts but allows truck gardens in the single dwelling district. The house will be razed and the college will piant the land in vegetables for use in Hale House, to reduce the losses sustained there during the past three years. By Grateful Administration ---------------<t> Over the protest of Dr. Carter Dfl,vidson, president, Union College will initiate a diaper service be- ginning May 1. . This service is part of a long- Perfidy J. Prenzie, exchange stu- range health plan which it is ho:Ped Perfidy Perorates PHOTO BY NAVIAS Right Building Is Given to College In an unprecedented move the Psychology department at Union College has announced ·that Ulysses R. Right, who wishes to remain anonymous, has given the Character Re- search Pr-oject the new laboratory pictured above. Dr. E. M. Ligon, project director,~·---------------­ in making the announcement noted •L •he gut will be improved upon · increasing the seating capacity d by installing a complete library f works relating to ~he correlation. etween physics and character 'Juilding. L'll.l!i UNKNOWN donor, U. R ·ght, a resident of Prosperity ke and a member of the class o: 00, has agreed to transfer the ~cently constructed building from tis property to the large meadow ehind the Union College White House just to the left Inside Pain 'Jate. This is to be without cost to the College. IMPROVEllfENTS. contemplated are. stained glass windows (in the ;hape of familiar celestial bodies) ~o.. replace the present otifice above he door. \Further tnterior beaut!· · ication considered was the }Jlacing ,f inscriptions of famous quota· ons on the marble walls,\ Ligon ated. \This gift is intended to ake U'P for the setback received v the project when zoning law~ 1rbade ·the use of another gift Station Starts Giveaway Show Radio Station WR.UC will launch a new give-away program Monda) evening, April 7, at 7 p.m. CALLED, \We Don't Want It; You Can Have It,\ the program will award valuable prizes In ex- change for the answers to simple ·questions. Monday's guest will be Dr. Albert Einstein, who will act as qulzmaster and formulate the questions which will be asked of the students. Stude:Qts who are in- terested in partici}lating in the prog.ram are requested to report to. WRUC studios before Saturday night. Only requirement for par- ticipants is a mid-term average of 1.0 oi: less. Four valuable prizes will be given to weekly winners, and a .grand monthly prize will be award- ed to the student whose average for the month is the best. M:~mday•s 'pr.ize will .be a twelve room apart- ment in Dutchmen's Village, which will be awarded to the highest scoring senior who agrees to accept a job in Peru. Achilles Area dent from Outer Mongolia, ad- dresed the home economics depart- D:ij.. WILLIAM T. WINNE, as-. h ak · sistant professor of biology and e.· ment on t e secret of m ing botanist of note, will be in charge chicken chow mein, Wednesday of the garden project. Dr. Winne afternoon, March 30, In the chem- said that this year the plot would istcy lecture room. Comrade Pren- be planted in turnips, broccoli, and chives. \It is,\ said Winne, \:purely zie flavored his topic with a 6Ulogy an experiment to see how the .of democracy. Yielding to strong whole thing wi,ll work. We don't student demand, The Concordlensis lmow whether a good turnip crop releases the text of his speech ver- can be raised in that environment.\' batim. The garden project,. to be known \DEMOCRACY gentlemen, is as the E.AEUC, Experimental A.gri- more than just a definition of gov- cultural Enterprise of Union Col- ernment, it is a way of life. It is lege, will be staffed with a full time crickets chirping on summer nights clinical botanist and ten graduate and squirrels blissfully ignoring all students· in biology. Special sum- but walnuts. It Is birth control and mer courses will be offered in plant free enterprise. I have seen war: culture and care. It is ex:pected you have seen war; war Is hell! that a graduate course in garden pests and insect control will also ''DElUOCRACY is apple pie and be given. Prerequisite for this corn fl.altes. It is borscht and chile course is a New York .state hunt- con carne and bock beer.' It is ing license. fresh mackerel wrapped in yester- \'O AVI\d Appeti\teS day's newspaper. In the vast salty J. 1 expanses of the South Pacific a !ffi. WILLIAM SOUTH, man- palm tree grows. ager of Hale House, hailed the an- \DEMOCRACY is a president nouncement of EAEUC as the :first calling a nuisance an s.o.b., and the in a long series of vitally needed right of a man to sue his dearest improvements in the college culi- friend. It is a greeting fro)ll the r.ary system. •irt .Is/' said South, chief executive and the privilege of \the first p!J.rt of a long range plan mailmen to wear blue coats. It is to make the college sef-sufficlent.\ the right of a bast girl to send a The plan was discontinued during \De~ar John\ letter. It is rasp- . the war when the sheep in the col- berries.\ (Continued on Page 10) (Continued on Page 9) Ironstein Declares Electricity An Illusion Wolfred Ironsteln; world-famed~--------------­ physlcist, has conclusively demon- strated that el~ctriclty is an illu- sion,. Prof. Harold Way, c!l!J..Ir~~n of the department of physics, an- sons directly concerned. \Electrical engineering courses will be given as usual,\ Professor .Bihber de- <ila.req. \Until a:ll motors stop, there is no proble]J1 as far as engi- neers are concerned,\ he main- tained. :nanslon given to the college,\ Ligon ,,d. He also noteq that the new •.cilities made ·possible by the lab ·ou!d allow students from ~uch utlying districts is Walla-Walla tc 1end longer periods in quiet study 1d meditation while on campus. Theodore Mcllwaine, a.Ssistant comptroller, announced that pians are being .made for using gas to light the classrooms; and kerosene lamps for -the dormitories. \In the pasture, , the danger of fire makes any means of lighting except glow- worms dangerous,\ Mciiwaine 'Said, ONE WEEK from Monday, on \and an expedition is being sent to the second program of the series, South America to get the neces- the priz,e will be l!;fteen free dates sary supply.\ · E • H with a Skidmore student whose THE NEW DEVELOPMENT \n • . PIC a oax parents have over a n:llllion dollars. the field of science has affected in- The English Department revealec' The third pl'ogram will award the dustry considerably. . The Presi- '1is week that a recent discover' free services of the Hale House dent's Committee, formed yester- roves beyond any reasonabl~ chef for one year to the worst day to study the problem, came out . 'oubt that \Beowulf\ is a colossal enemy of the winner. 'The fourth of an all,nlght session at the White ,oax: lt Is the work of an early and final program of the series will House with the. conclusion that Torwegian lush. As told to a mem· feature the presentation of Fred· treadmill power is the only prac- 'er of The Concordiensis staff for Wyatt to the winning student who tical source of power left. Pop . .Xclusive publication, this revela- has the fewest college activities. Housman, president of the Escala- tion is based on a recent discovery This progi·am will also feature the tor Corporatlon, was immediately of the personal papers of the Nor- awarding of the grand prize to the appointed treadmill expediter. wegian comedian, Datsa Jokeson .. contestant with the highest over~ . PHOTO BY NAVIAS In connection with this develop- Electrifies E.E. Change Bibber Professor Harold W. Bibber, head of the electrical engineering depart- ment, was severly shocked by re- cent changes in the curriculum of his department, Dr. Carter David- son's office revealed yesterday. The change, it was disclosed, concerns variations made in procedures used in the electrical engineering 13 lab- .oratory course by a number of in- dustrious sophomore engineering students. • THIS STEP, said Professor Eib- ber; is one of the most drastic ever made in the history of electrical engineering. It should, said Bib- her, shake the very foundation of our previous teaching of the sub- ject here at Union College. Administration officials have an- nounced that, following the recent- visit to Schenectady of David Lil- lienthal, clta.irman of the Atomic Energy Commission, information of a limited variety may be made available to the press. The follow- ing is the statement released late yesterday. \SOPHOMORE STUDENTS of electricai engineering at Union Col- lege, Schenectady, N.Y., have in- stituted changes which will com- pletely · revolutionize the teaching of electrical engineering at Union College. The changes, said Harold W. Bibber, head of the Electrical .Engineering Department, have completely altered our views on the teaching of this subject. By the use of methods which can not be disclosed at this time, a group of sophomore engineering students have somehow managed to alter the physical constants of certa.in standard Installations, and by this means, have been able to transmit various forms of energy in ways hitherto unknown, \Following a serious short circuit it was found that the steam pipes in the engineering building no lol'\ger carried steam. When some- one tried to turn on a radiator, he was knocked across the room by a charge of 30,000 volts. Normal lighting fixtures now are steam heated. All iron and steel objects have been highly magnetized, and (Continued on Page 3) Alumnus Honored THE PAPERS indicate that all average. This· prize will con- nounced yesterday. ment, the dean announced that he J(>keson forged the epic in a mo- sist of station WR.UC, complete AS MIGHT BE expected. this intends to f!.Sk the faculty councU m.ent of drunken rage, crying, \Let with all equipment and personnel. startling announcement br-ought· to place track and fteid on the reg- yosterlty but read this!\ FurtJ;-er-\ lifo, further operations .of station quick response from several per- ular curricUlum. more, Jokeson confessed to plag1ar- WRUC are contemplated after izing the plot from an ins?,ription Apl'il 28; until the contestant win- found on the celebrated mu15ge ning the station prepares new founth en ye shoares uf der Vme- plans for its operation. To the list of illustrious Union alumni: Chester ArthUr, William Seward, Robert Toombs, John How- ard Payne, Frank Bailey; and Frederio Wyatt, should be added the name of Squire Willas Sk!ppit. Sldppit has long been Ignored In Union's recognition of its himi- naries. It is only through the pain- staking effort of several RPI men that bis name was found among student lists. .Sklppit, class of 'Oi:I, was graduated magna cum laude. it is suggested by some that Skip- pit has been overlooked not be- cause he left his $12,000,000, earned colelcting garbage, to RPI and Hamilton, but rather because he is reputedly the author of that lgno- l.nous ditty, ' 1 ttPI was RPI when Union ·was . . • ,. land.\ Our confident declared that ---~---------~,..­ the implications of ail this are In- estimably terrific. It successfuly challenges the belief that beei,' was unknown to the American Indians. Dr. Lookama $a,ul'puss, famous Angl~-SaXon scholar, when asked what he thought of tbe find, simply stated, \This must not make any difference to ua. We shall continue. It is a pity that thiil infol'tnatlon <Continued on Page 4) Pickle In The Middle By I. M. Kl'a.ut In a surprise move, Jacltson Davis announced yesterday- that the Mountebanks will be on hand when the State Highway goes through Blue Gate. The troupe plans to operate a hot dog and mustard stand on Prex:y's lawn. \The boys can save money on sup- per for a heavy date,•• said an un- known informant. \They can flll up one hot puppies while waiting for that hitch to Skidmore and the little woman.\

! ,, ',]1 f ~ . ! ! ; I ' ·j': r; ; ... I · •. ·l 4 Shakespeare Uncovered FRIDAY, APRIL l, 194.9 I Martin vs. Agnello oJ C~llege S~ys :By O. Gr~am Ma.J)tln the back of our minds we've u.l-· N} X On G} f t S What is tllls thing called modern way had a vague theory about · - · music? dance music, that it represented On Monday, in a usual dutiful- fairly accurately the movements of Speaking for the adminlstraUon, ~ manner; we laid aside the books the dancer; the minuet a;lways ·Prof. Joseph Rotundo announced \We will convert our endowment to and wandered over to Men;10rial made us think of eighteenth cen- this morning that Union College cash,\ said Davidson, \and use it to Chapel, there to add another. tury powdered and bewigged gen- will no longer accept gifts f.rom buy gold bricks. The government precious point to our little hoard. tleinen making graceful \legs\; or alumni. ,has given us permission. to .store We didn't know what the student in complete contrast, folk dance \A CAPITALISTIC college,\ said· these bricks at Fort Knox, where· council had in store .for us and, music conjured up the vision of Rotundo,. \is unfair to. the working --tl;ley will have no unfartunate effect to· be frank, we wet~e mildly sur- heavy booted -farmers' -lads and classes. We have made a careful upon -the working classes.\ prised at the sight which greeted 'buxom milk,-maids. We still feel investig~tion in cooperation with IN AN EXCLUSiVE interview us. However, remembering that this theory is pretty accurate, but the C.I.O, and have discovered that with this paper, Prof. Joseph Ro-' \culture covers a multitude of, where does it lead us today? What Union's capitalistic ventures with tundo added to the public state- whims,\ 1\'e slipped Inoffensively movement in the world can corre- ·its multi-million dollar endowment :ment he made earlier. \Union~s into a pew hoping to pass a pleas- spond to a flatted thirteenth, or to have resulted in oppressing 753 .new 'pay-as-you-go' plan is a bene- ant twenty minutes listening to the climactic dischordant brass working men. These poor men and fit to the proletariat,\ he stated. some dance -music. No such luck. crescendo which, we gatl;lered, in- their families can only blame Union \With this pla,n, young men. of Every Ume we dozed off to the dicated the end of each \tune\? Coilege for tl;leir distress.\ poor families who prev-iously re- heat of many reet, •a ·flatted thir- We are tortured with a vague, but President Davidson today con- ,.fused to attend Union because of teenth, or a. sharpened ninteenth, persistent, vision of an epileptic firm-ed - Rotundo's state m en t. its capitalistic practices win flock ot' other such unbelievable chord, having one of his worst attacks. \Rather than be the cause of op- here to receive a liberal education. would jerk us out of our senti- THIS IS NO ·CRITICISM of Mr. pression,\ be stated, \we have de- The solid wall of ti:e bourgeoise mental t·evel'le to the Hard Reality Agnello~s band ·or the music they cided to- inaugurate a •pay-as-you- has. 'be~n broken, T~1s _marks the of Modern Music. play; we ·are perfectly certain that go' policy which we consider fairer ;begm_nmg of the trmmph of the wE 'f\RY VERY HARD to be they do it very well and that they to ali concerned.\ Davidson re- workmg-man all over the world.\ . broad-minded, and all that, but a:t enjoy doing it. But what wor-ries vealed that tuition and fees will be o us is this; do they realize--if our incFeased in order to meet ex- It's Here Prexy Back; We Got Him President Carter Davidson re- turned to the -campus last Friday a~ter a .seventeen-day vacatioiL. The president spent eleven days driving · and six days '!basking in the sun- shine\ of Florida. .His trip in- cluded visits with various alumni, among them :Or. Archibald Rut- ledge, ''04, at his South Carolina plantati~n. Besides the usual fishing, swim- ming, and sun•bathing in Miami, Dr. Davidson attended an alumni meeting conducted by Fred Hart- theory is corect-just what this. penses formerly covered by the en- By Martin Siegel music means? Did the young lady dowment. Spring is in the air, tra-Ja-tra-la. who sang \Night and :bay\ with BEGIN-NING with the fall term, y . our roving reporter has espied . such emotional fervor, realize that· tuition will. be $1250 per semester. · b · three red reasted harbingers of she was giving a very effective . Room rent will also be raised, to , fair weather on campus this past. representation of the \oldest .pro- $35 dollars -per week. In an effo·rt k A d ,wee . n , he wili !;lave you be- !ession ·In the world·\ in action? Of to prevent Hale House from l-osing lieve, the :Paeonias albiflora and course, perhaps oul' theory is money, special % pint bottles of · officinalis are sprouting right ill wrong. But if so, what shall we. m. ilk will be served with a. II meal.s, 11 the midst of the Tulipa gesneriana! do with the minuet, or the po ta,. and prices will be ra_ised to $1.00 h 1· h I hi ti t d · th Where is t ·is thril ing drama, this or t e r sop s ca e cousm, e for lunch and $1.75 for dinner. ballet? · surge of life taking place? Why, Davidson revealed that Union's . right in our own Ma Perkins' Gar- What is this \Mod- present -endowment will be with- den. Jackson's Garden remains We repeat: ern Music\? drawn f-rom capitalistic ventures. closed. She Blushes At Naughty Jokes PHOTO BY NAVIAS nett; father of William Hartnett, '50. Conclusive evidence that Shakespeare's middle name The most eventful incident on (from. Hollins College paper) was Elmer was disclosed this week by Alpha Hammett, a. the trip, according to Dr. David- th • d d h 1 t U · 0 tl t N 3 son, was tne blowout of two of his lr -gra e sc 0 ar a mon u e o. . • tires, necessitating tbe purchase of THE EVIDENOE was presented a whole :new set. Otherwise it was by Hammett to the local chapter an enjoyable respite from the daily of the Corpuscular Society, the in- routines. of a college president, · Televised 8o'clocks TmS w:EEK tl;le well-tanned . ternationally famous society for face of the president was already the decimation of the population nearly- •hidden behind the stacks by minutia, at their regular Sunday of work piled high on his desk in morning service. There was so the administration building. Ex- cept for a v;eek-end jaunt to MIT Startling changes are forseen in much confusion after the spectacu- for the inauguration of their new living conditions in the near future, lar disclosure that the third-grade president and regular monthly trips according to latest reports from scholar stepped down from the to Washington, President Davidson tl;le offices of Dr. Davidson and t b Mr. Mcillwane. These indicate rulpit without flnisbing his talk expects 0 e on the campus for mc•st of the remainder of the that the campus dorms will short- and with two-thirds of a pitcher of spring term. ly be possessed with revolutionary water standing unused on the plat- ---o,--~ features. form. Television sets and breakfasts in bed will be the highligbts of the His speech was painstakingly elevation of living standards. Due prepared and presented as the re- to the alarming proportion of ab- suit of a psychoanalyst's jottings sences in the eight o'clock classes, to insure that the scholar's thought the powers-that-be have decided to processes during the period lead- telecast the early morning classes ing up to the discovery would be to the harrassed students. Students recorded accurately. will have breakfast served them in IT TOOK the little scholar three bed, to allow them to concentrate, years, sixteen days, four hours and without distraction, on the tele- eleven minutes of unyielding effort programs. before he finally reached the crisis. Dr, Davidson regrets that the the discovery of the Unkempt current lack of funds prohibits the Papers, a series of correspondence telecasting of the programs be- between Shakespeare and his atom- yond the limits of the campus, but, ach distress. The unorthodox series for the present, he asks ~at all- were written to that particular sub- off-campus students be patient. He ject because of the unhappy con- declared that the off-campus trans- elusion to a love affair between mission can only be brought about Elmer and his dark-haired mistress with the aid of outside funds. Said and the need for talking to soroe- Dr. Davidson, \I have long been an one on his level. The papers have advocate of federel aid to education been turned over to the society and it may solve our dilemna.\ Dr. for their inspection. Davidson is planning to act in this Ji~znett has b<len receiving matter by going to Washington much attention since his startling next weelt to see if he can obtain discovery was announced to the a federal grant to aid the college world. Just yesterday, he was in this program. With so just a awarded the \Young Ham of the cause and with a few connections, Year\ trophy for giving the roost prexy views the future optimistic- to the literary documents set aside ally. \If we succeed in this ven- In the Library of Congress for the ture,\ stated Dr. Davidson, \we re-discovery of Hamlet's character will have the college in a very through the-Continued on page 32. favorable position-safely under the thumb of the national government.\ His motto is: Fix up every student! Relaxa.tion Dr. Ernest M. Ligon, chairman of the Psychology department, an- nounced Tuesday that, in order to test a new psychological theory that receptivity goes on during Bolslteviki Boom On Union college students have in- creased their enrollment in Rus- sian lang-uage course for next year by 10009f, over the number at the beginning of the courses oo the campus back in 1947, The liberal minded lads have always professed an affinity for keeping in step With world trends; they sense a new change in tbe making. The language department is gloomy over the prospects of handling such large classes, be- cause they are seriously handi- capped by the scarcity of Russian typewriters with which to print exams. Another troublesome angle is that :the shortage of Russian language instructors cannot be quickly alleviated. Candidates for instructing positions on campus must pass a battery of rigorous loyalty- scre-enings tests before be- ing accepted. Those traditionally popular languages, Latin and Greek, are Freshman She blushes at naughty jokes. She says \Oh please stop that.\ She wants to marry a football player. She thinks midnight is late. She doesn't date a boy girl sh{)ould know.\ She reads \What every who ever drank. She tells her· mother everything. Her motto; Mother knows best. She drinks cokes on a date. She likes to neck. Sophomore She smiles at naughty jokes. She says \Oh please stop.\ She wants to marry a movie star, She thinks midnight is pretty late. She reads \How to win friends and influence people.\ Junior She laughs at naughty jokes, She says \Oh please.\ She wants to marry a capitalist. She thinks midnight · isn't so late. She reads \the Art of love;'' She doesn't date a boy -She doesn't date a boy who is drinking, who is drunk. She tells her roommate She tells her diary everything. everything. Her motto: Death before Her motto: Nothing van- dishonor. tured, nothing gained. She drinks pink ladies She drinks Highballs on on a date. a date. She likes to neck. She likes to neck. Senior She tells naughty jokes. She says \Oh.\ She wants to marry a man. She thinks midnight is midnight. She reads \Care and feed- ing of infants.\ She doesn't date a boy un- less potted. She doesn't tell a damn thing. Her motto: Boys will be 'Qo:rs. She drinks anything any- time, anywhere. She likes to neck. being sadly neglected. Professors teaching these courses are being saved from extinction by pre-medi- cal students. GUERRA'S Whoever You Are, Whatever You Do PHARMACY Fountain Prescriptions Sund-ries 600 Union St. Cor. Berrett St •. PRESS Rooshians Arrive • sleeping, cushions will be provided for all classrooms. These cushions By Ivan Mlnsk-Pinsk will only be temporary, pending permanent changes in present Printers HELP PLAN officials have an- equipment, and will be red, blue, nounced the arrival of 15 new stu- and green, according to the season dents from the land of the Czar. and the co1,1rse. Later plans call With a touch of the sameness char- . for the substitution of t·eclining actet;istic of Roosha, 14 of the men divans if test results warrant this. ~~,.~-~,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~~~~~~~ are named Ivan. With a twinkle in addition. r, his eye, the fifteenth member of rr:::=;:::::::=:::::::fj the ·group gave his name as \Joe Shmoe.\ In an effort t.o make the men feel at home the first few weeks, Bill South will serve hot borscht and cold ·potatoes during Borscht Week at Hale House. The soup will be prepared from the real formula smuggled across the border by one of the men. TOM Jl:LLIOTT will serve vodka at the Rathskellet·, Jim Murray wili give the men hot numbers at the Ooncordy office, and the paper w111 be surpressed for two weeks ..• NOTT RESTAURANT and BAR • Right Outside Green Gate WINES- LIQUORS and BEER SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY STREET BOTTLED Ut<IDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA·COLA COMPAI'IY BY SCHENECTADY COCA COL A BOITLlNG CO. © 1949, The Coca-Cola Company F J 1 r4 n a: v tl n n 111 ] VI t \

to to Ro-' of re- of the the of past. be- and in this a is be .,. FRIDAY. APRIL 1. 1949 5 Rathskeller - . . Expansion Now Before Trustees 71JT•t ' l.Y.I.l 0 S Merger Made The faculty council announced· this week the e~tablishment of : Milo's Tavern and Beer Emporium, · of Liberty Street fame, as an off-' campus branch of the college rath- skeller, Tentative arrangements have been made for the merger,· alid are at present waiting for ap- PI'oval by the board of t-rustee:;;.· The move will bring a considerable revenue into the college coffer, and·· not too much -opposition to speedy· approval is anticipated. PHOTO BY WOODRUFF Divers Programs Planned President Carter Davidson has announced that Union College w!ll· pioneer in progressive education next year, with new methods of diffused specialization which can be added to as students with new de- sires come along. Details of the plan were not available. •.···· ..... Perplexing Problem .-~- ,- _. . .... _, t - ~· MILO'S T.A.B.E; will benefit constderably by this move, being. eligible for a \ClU:b and Lodge\ Milo's 'i'avern and Beer Emporium revealed a!l new off-campus (non-profit organization) liquor li- branch of the :Rathskeller. Taxi service is. to be ope1·ated between The president, peering out froin ·behind a sheaf of dirty songbooks, said that at present there are ina~ jors in only Z937 fields, as deter- mined by a student poll. He said, ·\This embarrassing situation ·must btl remedied by the addition of at least enough fields to keep us frol;ll growing fallow. You may quote me as saying that I sh!i:ll continuG to make unstinted efforts to see that the situation is rectified if the plan ·presented to me by the trus- tees should fall tlJ,rough.\ cense which carries a considerable the Liberty Street bistro and Old Chapel. reduction in taxes. Consequently,: ~-----------~.,-..---------------~ charges for services to patrons will · s • 1 . 1 also be reduced. By the affiliation, IMP }. y Milo's T.A,_:S.E. will receive grants · . . : . • ' .from the college funds whenever needed. Plumbing wlll be· main- Prof' es·s·or· tained under the new set-up by the college maintenance department. The Rathskeller also gains ad- vantages by the merger. An ex- E hO t tension· will be insta'lled in the base- . x· ·. r s ment of Old Chapel from the auto- matic hostess record player in Alburque, N.M. (I.P.) There is Milo's T.A.B.E. , ··one University- professor, Dr. T. M. A TAXI SERVICE has been Pearce, head of English at the promi'sed by Milo to run ~fter mid-· University of New Mexico, who night between his Liberty Street thinks it should be perfectly proper establishment and Old Chapel. Reg- to say: \It is me.\ ular trips will be operated as soon Further streamlining and liber- as omnibus plates are secured for alizing out· spoken language, Dr. the hearse. Milo further has prom- Pearce would eliminate \whom\ the ised to loan the college one of his objective pronoun. Thus it should neon signs. This is to hang from be correct to say: \Who do you the second window from the east want?\ . Other expressions that on the north side of the Geology have come up from the common Laboratory. man and not down from Univer- Anthony Hoadley, college comp- sity professors- are \Drive slow,\ troller, stated that this is only the· \none are here\ and \I don't care first of several projected off-campus for these kind of apples.\ . expansions. The projeci!J are to be \English teachers are behind dev'eloped with a threefold motive: their time teaching text-book gram- (1) the -increase and advancement mar when they should work for a of prestige and good-will, (2) en- standard nearer the common epeech larging of educational facilities for. of everyday man.'' said the learned the student body, and (3) the re- doctor. inforcement of not-too-shakey col- \When Winston Churchill .said lege funds. He added that some- 'it is me' in a speech he delivered time in the nea.r fUt\ll'e, the Flying in 1945, he was widely- criticizec;l. Club is to be alloted funds for thP. but what spokesman is more widely purchase of a surplus· Army B-36, recognized as an example of to help Dr. Davidson on jaunts speech in the English spoken world around the country. than Churchill?\ Ot----- New Theory Tested J R S k T.he following bit of knowledge . 0 0 .· pea S was· gleaned from a book found in the Geology Laboratory entitled \An Introduction to the Study of Fossils\ written by one Hervey Woodburn Shimer, A.M., Ph. D. On page 335 br. Shimer states, \Cats are of two sexes.\ Professor Rotundo of the Eco- nomics department delivered a. lec- ture last Tuesday on the North Atlantic Pact: a reluctant criticism. He told the combined membership of the Cosmolition and Interp.a- . tional Relations Clubs that the -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;.. North Atlantic pact is a continua- It tion of the Truman Doctrine. It GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS ~nd FACULTY Patton & Hall X•BAY J.l'ITl'ING H5 STATE 8T.-81nae 1893 '\' ¢•'%•• ..... ••\\ GAT,EWA Y Restaurant DELICIOUS FOOD COURTEOUS SERVICE I 04 State St. Sch'dy, N. Y. FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Servlnt Union Since 191 J ~\\\\l t1SO\~ {)\1\\\)Jj JAYSJ.JlWUlRS was undel\ this doctrine that we · supplied arms and munitions to · Greece and Turkey. The more' preferable way of he}ping Eu1·ope, Professor Rotundo stated, would be• a broadening of the Marshall Plan to bring about economic self help among the European nations. Guaranteed -Watch, Clock and Jewelry Repairing Quick Service! T. TUTTLE 139 STATE ST. SERVIN& UNION\S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Heed to Foot Serviee UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS P:hone 4-5676 Jl 166 Jay Street . . II 114 STATE Near FERRY Earth Shaking The recent bulldozing of earth that went on last week next to the language building does not mean that the field- house has been started. ,A.ccordlng to Mr. Wililam Mathias, Union College superin- tendent, the earth that has been smoothed o..fer came from the evacuation opopsite the Nott Ter- race High School, where the office of the General Ice Cream Company is being constructed. The . college agfeed to :let the construction com- pany dump the earth in back of the language building, where it acts Jobs Available Fred Wyatt, Placement Bureau head, announced yesterday that .positions for light-house-keeping .are open at Point Burrow, Alaska, and Birdland, Bafflebay, Anarctica for those men . looking for jobs with a future. Enhancing the de· sirabili ty of the posi tiona is the disclosure tbat sabbatical leave will be given every two years with double pay and a private room in any Institution desired, as a fill, if the company would buil- doze the earth level. \I like Chesterfield's MltDER, better taste. It's MY cigarette.\ STARRING IN \FLAMINGO ROAD\ A MICHAEL CURTIZ PRODUCTION RELEASED BY WARNER BROS. PHOTO BY EVAN The academic expansion at Union College has forced many undergraduates here to reconsider in choosing -their curricula for exact training in any conceivable profession. ~ ~ME\\\t~S SfOt\lS lbe tOP ME~, o ,.utsttt\f\ElO smol\e vn - - . . CH M\LDER .. • ·.· \. . 11 M\LOE_R-MU f' \d . . KRAMER says.. . ~ . 'That's Chester 'e JACK . \\y sotisfym9· d rea \ on • M'l cigarette. and that s ..._..

•l 'I , .. .. 6 FR~DAY, APRIL 1, 1949 Unio'n Fighting Demon Cets Carden ·Bid SCOREBOARD by Ll==Dick Roberts--· Union Returns ·From a Bat Probably the strongest baseball squad in Union's history will take to the field this aftcroon in their home opener against the Morskid Aggies of Schati<:oke. Capt. Truman -Rice, 5'9\ 160 pourid, senior of Malverne. L. I., starts his third year as a regular The Union squad has just re- on the Union ntne. Coach Art Law-· turned from an extensive bat renee regar.ds Truman as one of through the South, in which they the most polished players ever to ·visited Birmingham, Jacksonville, don a Garnet uniform. Truman Hoboken, and Scranton, spending played on the strong ·Sampson several days in the latter town. naval baseball team during the war. Outsmnding Triumph He is a graduate of Malverne High School where he participated in varsity baseball and basketball. · \Tru\, a member of the Psi Up- silon fraternity, played on the '42- The outstanding feature of the Spring training trip was an ex- hibition game with the Cleveland Indians, which the Garnet only lost by 154-1. This was an outstand- ing triumph for Unionites, as it was expected that they would be ·unable to hold their opponents to such a low score. Tbe one run was scored by a strong batting rally during the seventh inning stretch, when Parey A. Larsony. the um- '43 Union varsity basketball team. He posted a .400 batting average for the '47 season, but last season he was bothered by an old baseball injury, which hampered his bat- ting. This .season ·~Mr. Baseball', is looking forward to his best year here at the col- lege on the hill. pire and a Union Alumnus, called Pictured above are the members of the ( ?) '49 baseball ~;ql;IS.d, the game back into play unexpect-. which just returned from a bat in the South. Coach Art Law- edly. As a result Capt. Rice Manurt, · ren<'e was Indisposed when the plctltl'e was snapped. · <:lo!Ufu Art Lawrence stated today, \We will have a good club if our pitclhers come through.'• The stmr Art expects he will keep a.re Walt Krupa, Bill Kaznowsld, Ed Carsky, Buck Wittner, Ted Herlyn, and Bob Faubel. Ca.rsky is the only carry over from last year's sq1UKJ, Capt. Truman Rice is the only man on the squad who Is sure of a starting position. Truman played 2nd base during the '47 and '48 seasons, but this year, Coach Lawrence thinks lie will strengthen the Infield more by having \Tru\ play shortstop. One of the bright spots this spring has been the playing of 6'4\ John Togneri at ftt\st base. John is a student at Albany Phar- macy. Track Summary Union <:lollege track team went undefeated durlng the '48 season. They defeated Trinity, 91) :L/S-34 2/3; Hamilton, 101-21>; :Molha.wk, 78-53; RPI, 80%-45 2{3. They p!a.ced first bt tbe Invitational track meet held at RPI. Ken Whalen, .shot-put; Roy West- lund, javelin; Newt Culner, mile and half mile; and Don Wright in the same events, were undefeated during the regular season. The five top scores were \Ollie\ Personeus 58, Ken Whalen 55, Bob McQueen 54, Newt Culner 507~, and Don Wright 46'4. In five dual meets, Union won 56 first pla~es out of 70 events. Those men lost from last year's team are Don Wright, Roy West- lund, Hal Larkin, and Gordon Personeus. <:loacl1 Bill Ketz tl11nks the big problem this season Is the strength- ening of the field events to pro- vide greate:r secondary strength. The Dutdlanen open their season April 23 against Trinity at Sche- nectady. Odds and Ends Ninety men answered Len Watters', WHiiams College football mentor, first call for -spring prac- tice. Watters plans to use the Mis- souri \T\ formation next season in place ot the single wing ·used In other years. • . . Hamilton's new football coach, Don Jones, -won All- American honorable mention as a Rutgers University halfback In 1941. ... Hobart College is beating the drums for All-American ac- claim for their outstanding attack- man, Gordon Satterly. . . . • The Union College swimming team has a \peach\ of a schedule for next season. Two of the newcomers on the schedule are Boston University and Massachusetts Univernlty. . Old ma.Ill Joe EllZer is wa.rming up for his fourth year as a. softball hurler here at Union. \1Jn.cle Joe\ Is looking around for a strong club that has a need for a hurler of his ability . . • .any offers'l' • • • SLACKS • TROUSERS = 1,000 Pall'IJ to Pick F:rom • • • ROCHESTER PANTS STORE • • • m STATE ST. - Upstab:s '············· the Garnet shortstop, stole home ------------------------------- from first base. He was walked earlier. Indians Limited During the contest, Ed Racksy, the Union pitcher, was able to limit the Indians to a minimum of 16 runs per inning. The game lasted 6¥.> hours. and was called at the end of the seventh inning due to darkness. Outstanding for the Dutchmen wer.e Rice Manurt, Billy Deae, Cookie Winsher, Al Dawe, and Chick Eeham. the freshman squad, and they have. a pitcher who can really throw the curves. As the . Garnet has some strong batters, Coach Art Lawrence is confident of victory, although a hard game is expected. Last season the Dutchmen went undefeated, winning 8 games and losing none. Victories were regis- tered over Columbia, Army, Paduka Tech., Michigan, Yale, Harvard, Brown, and the Morskid Aggies. 36 veterans are back from last Little is known of the Moresldd · year's squad, and the only problem Aggies, except that they have sev- facing Coach Art Lawrence is the era] experienced players up from task of finding men for eigdit SPY ':1m unidentified spy fr.om RPI .vas recently caught s neakin~ Hound the lacrosse field during an evening practice session. He wa~ hung at dawn from a tree in Jack· ;on's Gardens. Will anyone intei· Jsted please pick up the corpse. vacant' positions. All 36 of the. re tur-nees are pitchers. The former standout of the squac is still spending a term in the Sche 1ectady County Jail fo·r stealin[ ;econd base during the opener last season. . lmri:e, Terror of the Ring._ To &rapp·le with Jersey Joe In a special release to the Concordiensis today, the 20th Century Sporting Club announced that they have arranged a special Madison Sq:ua:fe Garden match between that red- headed .demon of the ring, \battling\ Jack Imrie of Union College and Jersey Joe WalCott. This will be a 15 round title bout for the wodd h~avyweight championship crown recently vacated by Joe Louis. Da22;Ung Footwork Imrie, who displays some of the The potential champion~s da:i~y most dazzling footwork ever wit- , workouts. will consist of rigorous nessed and packs a right hand ca:llsthentics,. plus at least 1 minute punch comparable to. the kick of . and 35 seconds of sparring ·~ach ten mules, gained his fame in the ·day. He will wear specially padded Uhion College iptramunil ring, m gloves during pis training period the fastest -rise ever accorded a.ny ' sc as not to endanger the effect-ive- pugilist in the annals of ring his- . ness of his sparring partners. tory. . Imrie, wlw wm be the first heavy- After hunting high and low:, this weight.- in Union's long pistory, is reporter was able to locate Imrie· serioualy considering a chang!) in for a. special Interview, in Solim's his footworl!; for the title bout. In- Beer Emporium on Terbily Street. stead of the waltzing shuff.le, he potential <:hampion was in the plans to switch over to the \bee- process of strengthel).lng the fingers bop.\ strut. of his :weaker left hand by a gruel- In order to bring his· weight up lng exercise, which consisted of to par, a special treatment consist- crushing the caps of beer bottles· ing of drinking \tl'eesap'\' three between his thumb and index fin-. times a day, once after each meal, ger. Displaying his usual- modesty,. has been recommended to the the \redcheaded demon\ had very battler. little to say on the coming match . The only statement that hEt. would· make for publication was \I'll FOUL molder da bum.\ The Unibn College Athletic de- ·To Start Monday partment announced today that no Imrie plans to start training in bottled drinks will be sold at earnest Monday, and has selected future basketball contests, as a a site in Saratoga as his trai;ning. protective measure for the safety headquarters. Acording to Imrie, and efficiency of the officials. The \this camp provides the best pass!- retlections from the glass bottles ble ·facilities in the area for getting caused the referees to become ma- in shape, due to climatic condi- mentarily blinded several times in tions, available space, ;~.nd other a contest with R.P.I. this last favorable aspects. season. II ' ' -~fter the allow \J nothing quite so refr;sh' anet Blair will tell you \there' And th rng as a glass f~-L ' 5 B ousonds agree it's th R o \\''aefer Beet \ ut make e nest th • L Your own comparE 1i ey ever tasted, ueers-do . son. ry Scha ~ ... th lllestrc or Imported F' erer, •ry other ta;t:o~pl~te refreshment of tr~e ~nd out for yourself . at s ScbaefC!r. Try.it.- _e~ color,~~ Fl I I 194 ke' ~ Jit m~ Stt R< Til K~ of Rs Ar l Sc: Co to thl Ba Af tht La b01 ch: of Sel on UE fa< foi no· j in SOl Un te~ ore thJ ga: re~ 1m J de1 no at! Bo en mE thi in~ wa an feE 16l ag in! we Co \nt tht in! So thl cb ml ... ca m! in tel fir rol th• in ha 19~ La R. bu op rei jUI U1 th B! go te1 WI Fl lit

ed- a fly is in In- he bee- ·UP b.ree the de- no at s a The mo- s in last FRIDAY. APRIL 1. 1949 7 L·aw.re-n.ce Reta·ins BoXin:g-. · - , Wrestling. 2..1 Men Champs In Final -D,efe·nd BasebaU Cut; Titles Tonight BENCH :BLISTERS ==By JIM ETTINGER=::.~ An all opponent squad for the 19il8-49 season was selected by bas- ketball coach Pete ~ista.d this · week. The first ~m consists of Jim ·Curtin of Trinity, George Dit- · man. of Williams, Ed Bodeniann of, Stevens Tech., Jack Donohue of. Rochester, and Ed Zeno of R.P.I, The second team consists of Ed. Kotlarczyk of Vermont,. Ed Kelley of Amherst, Bill Tank of Hamllton,. Ralph Loveys of Middlebury, ali.d Armand• Ga.Ufl'a of Army. ¥- ¥- ~ Last Saturday n1ght Don · Schwartz, sports writer for The· Concc•rdiensis, traveled to New York to see the basketball. game between · the New Yor.k Knickerbookers and • Baltimore in· the B.A.A. playoffs. After the game. he dropped into · the dressing room to talk with Joe· Lapchick, coach of the Knicker- . bookers. According to Don, Lap- chick's. eyes lit up at the mention of Jim Pemrick's· name, and he seemed very much interested in one {)•f the best basketballers in Union's history. So much so, in fa~t, that he was questioning. Don for mof•e information. And why not? · • * * Coach Art Lam·ence JutS turned in an excellent record in the four seasons· that he has tut~red the Union ·College baseballe;rs. !lis teams l!ave compiled a 27-12 rec- ord for a. 68%average. In his first three seasons his squads won 20 games wlille only dropping 4, The record: 1942- 4-1;19i6 8-1;' 1947- 8-2; 19il8- 6-8~ * * \' PHOTO BY SCHWARTZ Wrestlen ]J)rnest ilnd Forsyth have It out in their bout in Alumni Gym. Track Coach Bill :Ke~ is the referee. Forsyth is the one off the groun!L Big Turnout Expected for Intramural Fights Scheduled E;light rugged champions from CHAMPIONSHIP PAIRINGS Boxing last year will defend their crowns in the finals of the intramural box- Ing 1;1.1;1d wrestling tournament to be held tonight at 8 P.M. in Alumni· 125-134 Scwartz vs. Winchester Gym, A large crowd is expected to 135-144 Garlock vs. Keever be on hand to watch Union's 145-154 Bullis vs. Jenney pugilists vie for the championships. 155-165 Milford vs. Hesse 165-174 Samal vs. Knox Boxing In the boxing division one of 175-184. Best vs. Martin Heavyweight'-Somerv.ille vs. Frick Arne Fretheim, former Union stu- the matches expected to cause ex- dent from Norway, and especially citement will be in the 1 5 5-164 lb. Wrestling noted for his skiing ability, is now class, as Jack Milford of Delta ;phi, 0-125 Blumenstock vs. Musty attending Tufts Dental school in last year's champion, will defend Bo-ston. A few weeks ago Arne f D u 125-134 Wilcox vs. Reia entered the annual ski jumping his title against Bill Hesse 0 . • ., 135-144 Morrison vs. Jackson me et at Laconia, N.H. and finished last year's champion in the 145-154 lb. class. Title holder Bob Garlock 145-154 Riley vs. O'Connor third in a large field of top rank-. of the Rebels will defend· his crown 155-164 Greve vs. Linn ing contestants. His first jump agai·nst Ed Keever of Sigma 'Chi in th b t Of the after noon 165-174 Tuthill vs. Wilson was · e es the 135-145 lb. division. In the 125- among all entries, covering 187 134 weight class, Leo Schwartz, 175-184 Lewis vs. McCarthy feet. His next two covered 167 and t t t · his Heavyweight-Weiss vs. Ten Eyck 162 feet respectively, and the aver- rebel, will ·be ou o re am · crown as he tangles with Roger age placed. him thitd. An interest- . Winchester, a pledge of Sigma Chi. ing sidelight is that two Nor- Former swimming team captain wegians took first and second place. Mike Sarna! will pair up with Jack * * * Knox of Delta Phi in the 165-174 Netsters Practice For Opening Game The lacrosse squad and Union College plans to treat the Army \noggili.-knockers\ qUite well when they visit the campus for the open- ing game on April 9. The Delphic Society Is planning to jovially greet the Army on their arrivaL A spe- cial steak dinner with all the tr~­ mings is being prepared for the .. cadets by Bill South for .the noon meaL Eight now arrangements a.re in progress so tha.t President Car- ter Davidson may throw out the first lacrosse ball to start things rolling. In the evening Union and the Arwy will team: up for suppe1· in Hale House. ~ ¥- ~ The Union College football squad has an eight game schedule for the 1949 season. Opponents include St. Lawt•ence, . Rochestel', Vermont, R.P.I., Hobart, Williams, Middle- bury, and Hamilton. The season opens September 24 with St, Law· renee away. In the 1949 Lacrosse Guide, which just came out recently, several Union players were mentioned in the All-State selections of players. Bill Grant was named· second team goalie, and Wl;J.itey Marks second team midfield-. Honorable mention was given ' to Doug Barry, Jim Flynn, By George, and Tom Quin- lin. lb. title fight, and ski team captain George Best, representing Phi Delta Theta will face· Dave Martin of Twenty prospects .turned up for Chi Psi in the 175,184 lb. division. Coach Pete Nistad's initial call for Defending his heavyweight crown tennis team candidates last week,. will be rugged Walt Sfrmerville, · Beta, who will be heavily favored as the netsters started training for over Joe Frick, a 210 lb. freshman a herd ten , match schedule pledge of Phi Gamma Delta. opening against Hamilton at home wrestl.in,g on ~pril 29. In the wrestling matches, last Back from last year's ~:~quad, year's champion in the. 145-54 lb. which ended up with a 5-2 record, division Bob Riley of the Rebels, are four veterans, including the will defend his ~rown against Bill number 3 and 4 men, Co-Captains O'Conner, also a J;i,ebel. RaY' Tut- Louis Klleen and Dick Jesser. hill, .·lacrosse star representing· Also back are Frasier Henry, who D.U. and last year's champion in saw quite a bit of action last sea- the 165-174 lb. <;~lass will be favored son, and John Servanek, wh<i was over Jack Wilson of Phi Delta a reserve. Theta. In the heavyweight div.ision, New Prospects last year's title-4older, Jack Weiss, will grapple with La)1sing TenEyck The netsters were dealt a severe of Phi Gamma Delta. In the 175- blow ih losing their number 1 and 2 184 lb. class it will be a toss Ivan Scheir and Burt Kus- between Stuart Lewis . of 'PhH\oo<>rrmr However, among the candi- Gamma Delta and Jack McCarthy and looking especially good, of Chi Psi. is Joe Alberdingk Thijm, a Dutch ---0•-'--- Freshman Camp All men interlfsted in acting as ·councilors at Fl'eshman Camp this fall must' turn their applications In to-the Student Activities office by 5 p.m. Monday, April 4. student under the HELP plan stay- ing at the Phi Gamma Delta house. He played a great deal of tennis in Holland, ~~d shows great promise. Bil Judson, a Junior .from Forest Hills, L.I., has also shown special ability, and he has gained consider- able experience through competi- tion in tournaments held at the East Side Tennis Club at Forest Hills among some of the better amateurs in the country. Also look- ing good is Jack Stuckey, a senior from Passaic, N.J.,.. WE KNOW YOU WILL .ALWAYS REMEMBER THE~ . Eight men wiil compose the reg- ular squad, and Coach Nistad ex- pects to begin pairing .down the list sometime next week. B·aseballers Go Outdoors: Baseball Team Will • B • Play Benefit,G-ame Battle fo.r PosifiO:ns . e·g•ns Union College will open its Art Lawrence, coach Gf the Union College baseball squad home baseball season against · f' 1 f h tl · W d d · t · · the S,_chenecta:dy Blue-Jays ofthe made his ma: cut o t e season us .. e nes ay, mam ammg Class c Canadian American a S(lUad of 21 men, the largest in many years. The Garnet League In a benefit game for nine will open agai.nst Rochester University on April 23, and the Memoria:! Field House, it return to Schenectady on the 24th to face the Schenectady was announced today by J. ·' f Harold Wittner, Directfrr of Blue-Jays in a bene it contest .. Athletics. Betnalning Men €>--------------- The game will be .played on • The follo~ing men were retained, April' 24 in McNearney Stadium Jn the squad: pitchers·, Ed Car sky, at 3 p.m. In case ·of poor weather Bob Faubel, Walt Krupa, Buc-k. the game will be .played as a Wittner, Bill Kaznowski, and Ted twilight contest ·On April 26. Herlyn. Catchers, Bill Eade and Winning Season Looms For Track Team This Year This will marlt the first ap- · Cal Schmidt; infielders: Capt. Tru- pearance of the Blue-Jays who man Rice, Bob Engisch, Paul· are now training ·at Seaford, Hochuli, Cookie Sherwin, and John: By Don Schwartz D 1 Another undefeated season is in · e aware. , Togneri. Outfielders: AI Wade, The net pr-oceeds of the game Chick Meehan, Ray Pomeroy, Ken prospect for the Union College ·11 b t 'b t d t th U • track team if the glowing predic- WI e con n u e o e · n1on Sheldon, Bo·b ·sherman, Dick. C ·11 M · 1 F' ld H tions of Coach Bill Ketz hold forth o · ege emona · Ie ouse, Speidel, Bob Staley, and Joe Young. an(! will hillp to swell the func;l · :Pitching and if Injuries don't plague the which is set at $500,000. Garnet. Having lost only two let- Prominent Coach Will Be Speaker At Block ·u• ·Dinner The squad has been outside since· termen from the 1948 team which the beginning of the week, and raced through five dual meets and has engaged in a few easy inter-, the RPI Invitational, unmarred, squad games. Lawrence has had· Coach Ketz seems to deserve the the pitchers throwing at half speed,· right for feeling as optimistic about and: says that it is too early to his team's chances as he does. tell about hitting ability until the WI'Ight, Westlund Lost pitchers start be;a.ring down. Pitch- Don Wright, one of the top ing is still a big problem, although milers and half milers, and Roy Andy Kerr, one of the most fam- improvement is expected as the_ Westlund, ace javelin thrower, have ous coaches in the history of foot- boys start working out harder in. been lost from last year. Although ball, will be the principal speaker the next few weeks. they were important cogs on the at the 14th annual Block \U\ The frutflelders are much faster undefeated squad, ·having been fifth dinner on Saturday>, April 31}, at than last year, and Lawrence' ahd eighth high scorers respective- 6:30 P.M. in Hale House. The dinner stated that the outfield positions ly, Wright and Westlund· will not will be an open affair, and all are wide open. He is keeping these be sorely missed. Ketz is three alumni and undergraduates are in- positions open until he has a better· deep witll outstanding talent in vited. chance to look over the boys. almost every event. 'Bronner .Toastmaster Infielcl Berths Captain Ollie Personeous and Ken Whalen, top two score1•s last In addition to Andy Kerr, Bill In the infield the positions are· year, lead the returnees. Persone- O'Neil, chairman of the banquet, more narrowed down. Capt. Tru-. ous shone in the sprints and the has lined up Union's own Fred man Rice is a sure bet to start at broad jump last season, while Bronner as toastmaster. The Capi- shortstop, while John Togneri, an Whalen established a college shot- tal District will be well represented, Albany Pharmacy student, has put record. Whalen heaved the 16 by the noted local WGY sports- practically clinched the first base pound iron ball 48 feet 8lh inches· caster and commentator, Bob post. At second it is a toss up be- to break the old mark by over two Bender. Union's athletic director, tween Paul Hochuli and Bob feet and placed sixth in the ICA4 Harold Wittner, will award life- Engisch. The third base post will Meet in New York against stiff time passes · to the graduating probably go to Cookie Sherwin. competition. senior captains and managers, as Belanger Back a part of the after dinner cere- u · •t Number one miler this year in on. Reaching the mvers1 y re- mony. tirement age, he completed his place of Wright will be Ray Bel- Kerr Pupil of Warner tenure at Colgate in 1946. Refusing !anger whc;> has dropped down from Kerr, a native of Wyoming, is a to leave the game he knew and the 2 mile. Bellanger is reporteJ gr!!oduate of Dickinson Cfrllege. loved so well, Andy accepted tt~e io be in the best condition of his Andy never really played football coaching job at Lebanon Valley life and should be an excellent per- himself, and he J?,rst became in- ·College, where he is today. former. Newt Culver is right up terested in the game under the The Canny Scot along with Bellanger in the mile. tutelage of Pittsburgh's famous Other tnilers will be Townsend \Pop\ Warner. When Warner. Mr. Kerr, who is often referred MacCoun, who has looked very to as the \Canny Scot of the Chen- good, this Spring, and Bob Ketchum. ango\ has one main hobby and Bob Garlock will be the top 2 passion besid.es coaching his Leb- miler and he looks very capable anon Valley squad. He is devoted for the spot. Abe Lakshin, a cross to the East-West classic on New t t Year's day, staged by the Shriners coun ry s ar, appears to be num- ber two 2 milex·, while Ketchum in San ·Francisco for the sake of may also run the double mile. charity. Last year marked his 21st The half mile should be very successive seaoon as head coach of strong with four men all looking · the Eastern eleven. Knowing that. very good. Dud Keever and Gray- the proceeds go to aid the crippled don Loomis are reported in excel- children, Andy doesn't mind miss- lent shape and look set for big ing his New Years dinner at home. seasons. The latter was very sharp . .Professor Fred Bronner, Union in practice this week. Besides ··za. is a well !mown authority on Keever and Loomis,. Ketz has Bel- Union College spo-rts. He is the Ianger and Culver as top ha:lf genial president of the Monday milers. Toastmaster Bronner shifted to Stanford he sent Kerr ahead to lay the groundwork f()r his complicated and tricky double- wing-\s!i!t up. It was \during his stay> at Stan- ford that Andy really became a football authority. After a brief stop at Washingt8n and Jefferson College, Andy moved on to Colgate. where the witty professor was to make his greatest reputatio~ as head coach. At Colgate 18 Years Under Andy Kerr, Colgate be- came a power in Eastern footbap as the Red Raiders took on col- leges with enrollments much larger than their own 1000. In his 18 years at Colgate, Kerr coached many winners. His greatest season came in 1932 when his Red Raiders were untied, unbeaten, and un.scored up- morili!lg quarterback club, and has 44-0 Strengthened always been interested in all phases Sophomore Ed LaMay is an ex- of Union athletics, ceptionally bright ·prospect in the Tickets on Sale 440, according to Ketz. This ap- For an 'interesting, enjoyable, peared to be one of the ·.vea:ker and informative evening make your positions, but LaMay should great- plans now to attend the Block U ly strengthen it. Vance Thurston dinner on April 30. The tickets for is the second quarter mi!er, but the turkey dinner may be obtained it's necessary that he take off con- from any rnerr.ber of the block \U\ siderab!e poundage before he can society, in Hal Wittner's office, or help the team any. George Wisoff at Joseph's Clothing Store. The and perhaps Loomis may run the price of the tickets Is $1.75. 440. LANGE & RAPP PhQrmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for lha Sick\ - CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTI TERRACE and STATE STREET 'I I ' (Continued on Page 8) FERRo·s RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6,.9554 111 5 BARRETT STREET ' JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS LOOK YOUR BEST For C11r Troubles See a UNION MAN Cleaners and Dyers Ball's Shoe • Inc:. Bebu1148ZII For >HATCHES and JEWELRY I Repairing and EngravinCJ, Pens and the Finest Gifts C~rn•r Stahr ·and Ceater Sta. VISIT THE ACME BARBER 509 UNION \ William H. Plath 633 St11te St. 204 Union St. 601 Union Street PHONE 6-3456 A 'U T 0 S E R V I C E Call Ball and Ball Will Call

8 FRlDAY, APRIL l, 19l9 S • C 1 b 1· ~eGospel... $ . . :.Wind:bags e lll 0 r e e, , , : , s (Continued from Page 2) educated D1~n spending so darn have this .direction he talks about, 0 t •t And it seemed funny to me and it much of their time in bars tryin(' because theY! seem much more sed\ ' : P· nor UDl ·y· . d , would. to you kids today too. Fo~ to get .a little busipess. You'd thi~ ous, th!!.n tP,elr fathers were and J:\\· At ·. hi: et.·e, Le· a. ·. e· r example I ain't seen the boy~ of' t)l.ey'd learn to act like tile reiJt of'. because they dOI;l't just-go ahead, An ihtramUl'~l deb~te 'tourna- : to~y come it and !mock tliem- the poople t4at comes in for :a an<t accept everythins-. that happens ment is being sponsored .by . the selves out trying to make a girl driuk 'and who forget their jobs as the whole ~ruth but try to ftn<l P)lilomathean .society extending and then necking up a big 11torm and their business when tl;!ey finlsl;i out the answers to· questi9ns them- A ... h '\r . Kenneth J. Whalen, start atMete and student leader, is in the back of the place. their work. But not these'b!g shots. s'elves then I'm glad that they don't from · prU 25 \hroug ·. ~ .. ay ' 6 • · one of the best known seniors on campus. they can't seem to forget . their have this here direction. ~ut if the The rules fat the tournament • 4T LEAST today the bays are. ·wm·k .for one second they're always kids want· .to co~e in and talk shall be: Whalen is recognized principally 1 1 f t d th t t th a 1e I o a lot smar er an · ey grinding, grinding trying to make abOut t}).lngs of interes o · em 1. All students of Union College for his gridiron exploits. During Fl BOyS know enougb to lay off of that a )ittle nwrl! dough or· trying to 'uke politics ar music or go(Jd books are eligibl<?, the limita,.tion being the last football season, he was co- . · · Y . · · ' . stuff, but ii tl;!ey do come in with sell a few more items. Gosh ~ou'd that they're reading in •class all tl;le that no one fraternity or dormitory captain of the team a:> well !.l-s a cute looking dish and they want th-ink the world would come to an. time I .gv.ess·'that~., just as gQod a may be represented by PlO·re tha~ · s AOPA 'to make out they got enough sense end if these guys djdn'.t sell six gQal in lif.e than tr¥il:lg to con a two teams. being one of the best linemen Ill ee . . 'to know that hotel rooms are pretty exba light bulbs a week or if ~:~ome 'ilJuy in a b~r into buying your 2. 'l;'he subject of t:Qe <;lebates Union's history. In recognition of . · · cheap these days. But they don't company didn't .have a brand new prod 11 ct just because yov. can drink . sh!'Lll be R,esol:ved: That Union ;col- his ability, he wa~ chosen to play go around showing off their love- rai.l.road C!lir. on the road. · as much scotch as he can or know· lege sho.u. ld inaug.urate a Ph.yslcaJ. r At its meeting last Monday night, k' · bl' · B t I d •t t · · ·b f b. d d h' ke in the North-South game. · rna mg m pu Ic. u on wan· all the l~.t .els o ·. on 8 w ' 18 Y Education major. the Union College Flying Club yo·u to think that I go arounq NOT THAT it makes !l.ny dif· .and where they come from and ON THE TRACK TEAM Whalen heard a tall~: by Mr. Harold Van ·watching real careful because I feren~;e anyway there still seems to. 'how much ,..they, cost and !;tow ·l!;mg 3 · Each team should be •P~'!h has als~ proved his worth. He has Valkenburg, operator of the Van don't mind the boys catching a be a shortage of tig·ht an~ look !).t, they peen 'in the keg an(l what pare(j, to. d'i)fend either si!'!e in the Valkenb'erg Flying Service in little kiss now and then, after all, the railroad cars on the New York I}J.akes good: whiskey :or what !;!vent tl),at two winners· en:jerge t)lrice shattered the Union shot- Scotia. Thi's was the first of a . even I l:lin't made of wood. Central y9u'd think th!lY ,§topped' doesn't m;~.ke a· good m;ixed drin:k. on the same ·side. If ·no mutua! put record and at present holds the. series of flying training lectures: making cars baclt in the lSDO's. But agreement is reached by the· teams college record of 48'8¥... At the and films sponsored by the Flying Another thing that made me mad to look at these men running AND :rF YOU want to talk abput as to the side to be defend~d, it rc 4 A meet in New York City, at Club. was that this guy starts telling me ·around like mad you'd think tbe. goals what abqlit the older guys shall .b decided by a flip of a coin. k Mr. Van Valkenberg, a pilot about how the boys today d9n't who·Ie world· was built only to. serve. what the hell kind Of .goals do they 4. The prize shl).ll be a gold the end of last year's trac sea- t r· \th 1 f of fifteen years experience in in- know .how to ge a ong WI · peop e .ap(j, please them. And; yet who :pays 'have that are better than those o trophy to the wil;liling team. son, Wha:len placed sixth in com- struction in all kinds of aircraft, and that if they're looking for a for its and who has to support. the kids of today. Do Y0'\1 call going 5. The teams shaJI con,sist of two petition with the best shot-putters discussed the traffic problems and: good jo·b they got the wrong ideas their fancy clothes and fancy into a· good nightclub instead of a men eRch, each member .being :ve- in the country. orientation landmarks of the Sche- on how to go. about it. It seems to .drinks and their big sa!laries whtv. small J:riendly ·bar a better ~oal. , quired to give a tnree minute main In addition to athletics, Ken has nectady area. me that the best way a !llan can it's the public. But ~roJp. hearing: Or if you go to one of tbose ex- speech al;ld a one minute rebuttal. participated extensively in student After -the meeting, the members. get a 'job is to learn as much as a them talk yoU'd think thr;tt all thip pensive restau];'ailts and eat a big The debates will ·be judge(! on government. He was president of were invited to a meeting of the school can teach him and read 8 advertising and selling helps bring. steak does it ma),;:e· it any )letter knowledge of case, .delivei'Y · ~;~.nd the sophomore class in 1947 and. Aircraft Owners and Operators lot and study the things that can the goods cheaper to the .public. if the menu ·is in Frencl;l or if 'they' rebuttal. has been a student council member Association of the capital district. come in .handy l'lke. i always figure Well maybe so •but you can't prove tell you iii .plain language that H · th t · that a gu:u will Jearn how to get , · · ·i t · t 'd f beef 6. No time js ·allowed between throughout his Union career. e At this meetmg, e curren an· \ it to me, but you can't tell that to ·you re go ng o ge · a ,s1 e o · tnaih ~peeches and rebuttais. was chairman (pro tern) of the traffic congestion ;1t the Schen.ec- along with people that is people them because they're even worse that's tasty and tender. It's all Student Council during the spring tady Municipal Airport, occasion~d he likes. And that's what I like than some preachers I know who Light I .suppose to go into a fine 7. Judges will be faculty mem- and fall of 1948. by the necessity for the fighter a~r- about the lcids today. They dOn't really got the i'eligion ahd these restaurant and have a lot of bers whenever possible. craft operating there to use a d1f- stand for any of foolishness from boys sure got it but it ain't in ·no .. · flunkies ~angip.g around yc·ur head · 8. The tournament proceedings fcrent traffic pattern than the light anybody. If anybody does some- God unless his Initials begin with wh'ile. your eating but who are you includhi.g the ·pair.ings will be post• planes, was discussed jointly by the thing that they don't like they G.E. or something like that. trying to kid w.li,en you stai:t tallt-'. ed i~ the Student Activities Office KEN WHALEN is a .student member of the College admissions committee and also a member of the Delphic Society. By virtue of three letter.;; in football and track. Ken is a member of the Block \U\ Society. Ken is married and became a father last November. His home town is Whitehall, N.Y. He at- tended high school there and was also active in all major sports and student government. After spend- ing thirty-three months in the Navy, Whalen came to Union as a transfer student from Dartmouth. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. GOOD FOOD7 Try Elmer's Restaurant 149 Barrett St. Where Union Men Are Always Welcome A Sweetheart Pin Is a Treasured Xmas Gift. Delight your Best Girl with a beautiful crested gift or minia- ture Sweetheart Pin. CARL SORENSEN SO Murray Ave., Waterford, N.Y. Telephone Wate1'ford 644 L. G. Balfour Co. AOPA and several officers of the stand on their own two feet and Th€re' one osther think that this ing :~,bout g.oals in life. And is and· in Bailey Hall. Air National Gua 1 ·d operating there. tell them off and that's the way it , ~?ihi:pg in the top rom? c;>f tt:e V.C. 9. All entries must be in by ,A.pril An Air Force training film will should be because nobody's gonna 'here guy said that got me a little a better goal than sittmg m the 9 at the Student Activities Office. t . f !mock you down if you let them mad maybe because he was using E. dd' M't· ,, b Th nly dif . . . be shown at the next mee mg o some kind of high fa. luting lan-: Ie· 1 e.s ar. e o - Complete rules are available in the the flying club on next Tuesday at know where you stand. But take ference is that the guy sitting in Student Activities Office. . II · t t d some of the older guys like those gt,lage that I didn't quite under- th v c i ,. t littl more dough · 7 p.m. in CE 30 4 . A m et·es e stand. It seems these guys just 8 ' ' s \' 0 a e · • · Union men are urged to attend. that carrie in here o-nce in a while ·and maybe wants the o-ther people o---~ although they usually hang out at can't talk to you in plain language in ·the place to think he's got a hen R. p. I:_ R· e.pa.ra·t·. 1 ·ons· the classier places like the V.C. or that an ordinary human being can of a lot more than he really h~;~s. ---o--- Track Season \Continued from Page ii Bob McQueen will again be the top hurdler. McQueen hovered al'Ound 16 seconds in the highs and around 24 seconds in the lows last year. Harry Lawton also looks impressive in the hurdles. Sprints Strong The sprints are perhaps the strongest Pvent on the squad. Per- ~oneous is, of course, top mnn. Bill Abbott is back at school, but he hasn't run in two year~. Neverthe- less, he is a 10 flat sprinter. Kent Coryell, a very promising sopho- more, and Mert Wallington are the other dashmen. The field events look no less fortified. Record holder Whalen Is. naturally, top man in the shot- put. Whalen is undoubtedly, one of the top small college shotput- ters and seems set for another big year. John Dvorscak is number two in the event. With Jal:!k Milford. a 12 foot . vaulter back. the pole vault seems strong enough. Clarence Simmons also looks outstanding in the vault. Personeous and Art Hagor will handle the broad jump. Personeous did consistently over 20 feet last year which is usually good for a first place. Fred Oyer. who was on the team for only half a season last year. will he the number one high jumper. Ed Wiiliamson is right behind Oyer and looks better than ever before. · Javelin Three javelin throwers are all looking good as Ketz is seeking a re,placement for \Vestlund. Harry Kuniholm may be top man, but Art Hagar and sophomore Jack Fischel have also been very im- pressive. Whalen and Bud Mills will fling the discus. The season opens April 23 at home against Trinity and i:tihs through till May 21, the date of the RPI Invitational Meet. Ketz is quite confident in his eager Dutch- men and nobody can blame him. They may not repeat the undefeat- ed season of 1948 but as Ketz said. \It will take an awfully good squad to beat us.\ --~01--- Harlowe Appointment Appointment of H. Gilbert Har- low, associate professor of civil engineering at Union College, to the committee on soils for engineer• !ng purposes of the American So- ciety for Testing Materials, was announced this week by committee secretary R. F. Blanks, chief of the research and geology division. Tony's. understand. But he says to me that But . .that's oltay too, but don't go Amount to. $7.·3o· the trouble with the kids today is getting high fallutin and bring In BUT THE KIND of guys I'm that they lack direction whatever this nonsense of philosophy (didn't The RPI Student Council will talking about are the office big the hell he meant by that. think 1 knew that word did you h f h G E d AI d pay $730 for the damage 9one at 5 ots 0 t e · · an co an . a AND THEN he goes on to say 'kid). Union before the RPI-Union game few of the other companyies in to~'n that they don't have any goals in this year. The Union Student Coun~ that uses college men. ou see e life that they're J'ust bitter and GEEZ I SURE have been shoot- . 'd RPI $ 300 f men. in a bar and well they're 1 ing the breeze· and I don't want 011 has already pal · · or dressed Up real nl 'ce and they're .confused and that they're stil k t .I' t th' damage our stuaents did to the · · th th' th t h · you to thin tha ve go no mg loaded witb the mula h. They're a thinking about e mgls : ap- better to do than j!lst talk a lot of Troy campus. A delegation, con- little fatter and hea'!Jier than they pened to them a coupe o years foolishness but that guy sure slsting of James Courter, Edward used to be and they're all shaved ago in the war and that th~y can't. burned me up when he started to Carsky and Jack Fischel was' ap- and clean and they drink fancier ·forget and act Iilte human beings . k'd f t d d .Pointed by the UJiion Student Coun- and really live life and he also pan. the young · .1 s 0 0 ay an cil to nieet wtih a committee from drinks than they used to, but they clai'ms that the ki'd·s are up in the I thought I'd j!lst get some of it RPI I d 'd d th t 11 d ain't changed so much that I can't off my chest. J: like the kids of · · · t was eel e a · a am- tell them ·as the same college boys C'louds with all of the new fangled today and I think they got guts ages in the future will qe paid on that used to come in here and raise ideas and that they're much too. b the basis of individual lif!,bi!ity. To young and inexperienced to get Sllough to be individuals and to e prevent future damages, ·the polige hell. And the funny part about it is themselves all tied up with politics men ahd not just a bunch of grown . 11 b , that they haven't grown up a hell· h t up .kids that forget to leave the rah force at both campuses Wl e of a lot. They stili talk this fancy and such and that they oug t o rah with. the books when they got strenghtened, Also, ne:l{t year's talk and . they sti'll hang out by leave the respo-nsibility of govern- t th k'd ·freshme1;1 at RPI will be instr\lcted ld t . h their diplomas. At leas . e 1 s themselves and give the looks of ment to the o er genera Ion w o of today don't feel they have to in constructive rivalry w.ithout van~ being better than ordinary folks. seem to know what's going on and. j l'k th . Id dalism during their orientl'l,t)on pro- who have been keeping the world act and talk ust 1 e etr 0 ·gram. A committee, which will The only difference is that today running in pretty good order up man. meet next month, has been formed they're not out looking for a unti'l now. But he feels that the 1 t' b t t ak t 'th w· ell kid I'll stop this line of bull to further good re a 1ons e· ween woman ° m e ou WI cause kinds with all of their radical ideas h 1 they're all pretty much rr.arried will J'ust blow up the whole mess for a while and wait until you drop. t e two schoo s. with these same fast talking dames in their f~es and then the world ,in some night when ·you get time 0 they used to hang around with,· but . h to sit down and have a good old. MI's· si'on' ary Expounds their wives are sitting in a nice . will go to pot. He feels they oug t chat and we'll sure knock the hell h f t t to wait until they go out into the out of the . heads of a couple of 1 orne or a ancy apar men some- cold hard world of reality before (Continued from Page ) where while these guys are out brews, I guess that would be good still raising hell but only so's they th€y start trying to take upon enough for us. can make a quicker buck than the themselves the job of ·grown up men Be seein' ya pa:I other guy. It always seems a little · foolish to me seeing grown up But if the kids of today do1;1't your~ fviend Aloysius only through our religion can we rectify them. Carpenter ennumerated the chances for service in the mission fields in Belgian Congo. He ex-~­ pressed his regret that many yopng Campus Concert ... Henshaw Exhibit Activities Budgets !~ge;~~~~~er~~oab~~~Ttro~~~~ :~~~ \Continued from Page 1) Now In Lt.brary Martin· J. O'Meara,. chairnian of moraJ standards and lapse into the · · lo·c•se morals of the countries where arrangement of \All Through the . · the student ta.X oommittee, an- • · they are stationed. \J;teligions and Night''? · ·Fourteen oil and pastel paintings nounced on Wednesday that all of: moral forces,\ Carpenter declared Mr. Paul Black's second selection of the noted American artist, Glen next year's students activities bud- in closing, \must be undergirded.\ of Schumann's \Symphonic Etdue\. Cooper Henshaw, are now being gets. must be submitted to the Stu- HE WAS introduced by Rev. C. once again proved him to be. a shown in the library and will be dent Activties Office by noon on Victor Brown, who $tressed Cax- pianist of no mean promise. It was on public exhibition th.ere f.or a .Saturday, April 23 • penter's scholarly achievements. He evident that Mr. Black was having month. Budgets must be submittild on was gradul).ted ~from Ullion with a difficulty with the treble half of · Bor'!). in· Indiana, Henshaw specie:! forms, which are obtainable B.S. in Civ.il ~ngineering in 1921. the piano, since it seemed to lack studied in Europe and held exhibi- from the Student Activities Office. He received his B.D. degree from the brilliance of tone and precision tions throughout the world. He ls Organizations ~which are< not tax Rcchester Theologicai Seminary in. of touch of which he was just as particularly famous in this colliltryt supported and. wisl:l. to submit a 1925. I11 1936 he received an M.A. evicientiy a master. We have since .for his character studies, seascapes budget for next yea;r, should do so from Yale and in 1937 his Ph. D. heard that the pil!no he used is and harbor scenes. at this time. Activties desirous of from Yale. He was awarded an not all it might be ,which explains Several of the paintings on ex-· becoming tax. supported must sub- I;tonorary Doctorate of Divinity by his seeming laqk · of variation in hibition are for sale. .mit a copy of their constitution to Union in 1943 for his worlt in the intensity. 0 ~he student council for approval. . mission field. He is now a mis- The concert finished with a thor-: , o., sionary for the American Baptist oughly enjoyable' and light-hearted Cats Have Sex Foreign Mission Sol;)iety, and man~ rendering of the Gilbert and Sulli-. Outing Club . Dane~ ager ·Of La Librairie Evangalique van's \Pirates Chorus\ and a med- Union College students will be. au Cc•ngo, a publication distributing ley of college songs ending In the able to see the televised production The Union College Outing Club house in Belgian Congo; alma mater. of Shaltespeare!s \Julius Caesar\ in 'is sponsoring a gala square--.round Ol--- ---0·~.--- More Kiwi Birds 'the Hale House student lounge on dance in the Alumni gymnasium on In~iirance Plan Sunday, April 3, at 3:30 p.m. The .Saturday, April 2, to run from 8:30 play is being tele:vised from the to 12. The music will be pro:vided (Continued from Page 1) . Folger Memorial Theater in Wash-·. by Johnny Eggers and his band, ·the policy and its. beneficiru'Y' desig,- c h · 1 b · lth · 11 · f th t · nation to the insured. {3) The Nature Iove!'s in New Zealand re-. ington, D .. , w ere 1t s · emg per- w a ca er or e g oup num• f d b · A h t. c 11 t b 'T' k t b bt .. d premium payments may be discon- J 'oiced recf'ntly when a sturdy· male: orme Y m ers o ege s u- ers. IC e s may . e o a1ne . d t P ' t th d t' th f d ·t · t t' th tinuect and the college alithoriz, e. d kiwi chick was hatched at the en s. .nor o e· pro uc 1on, . e rom or.m1 ory represen a 1ves, e S . c 11 1 1 · '11 b St d t A ti ···t· ff' t th to cash in the polic.y for its full Hawke's Bay game farm. , hringing' 1ena o ege pass on .pay WI e ·U en c VI 1es .o 1ce, or a · . e t I · d cash suri'ender value. (4) The cl)l- to six the only known existing fam-. e ev1sed. · oar. lege may be authorized to ·secure a iy of this nocturnal flightless bird loan against the pQlicy to t!Ie thought to be extinct until a few , amount of $20() and release the • GENERAL HARDWARE years ago. FOR SALE L • 8 ·b policy to the 'insured who would The male bl:vd spent 81 days 011 • . OUIS ... ar ' er have in 15 years, if premium pay... the latest egg before the newcomer N E W S P A P E R m.ents are continued, a $800 paid up burst through the thick shell. This · Shop· insurance poli'c'y .. is the fifth kiwi chick hatched ~tt · Are you interest~d in a · ANNUAL PREMIUMS for the the farm. Of two in 19 4 4, one died,, news career? Here is a plan vary from $24.67 to $27.77, de-' and anoth(\r one, hatched In Hl45, \rowin business. Money• Favorite of pending on the age <>f th~insured failed to survive. A hatchitlg in · ., ., at the time .pf application. Arrange- t946 was successfuL A Kiwi with · maker. . Weekly in Boston ments are being made so that a. a woo<len leg recently was sent to , · area. Recogni~ed leadin9 UNION MEN system for financing the original the farm. paper in field. Complete premium may be set up; A methQcl Union students who have long:. equip· ment. Lin4) .. types, Lud• Near College of promisso-ry ,notes will be used associated Kiwis with shoe polish · .covering a four mQnth J?eriod. • will be pleased to know that the law, Caster, Saws, Goss• 20:1 PARK·:PLACE Pl'emillmil for the first tet1 years whole project is not just advertls-- Web press. - $41,500. are deductable. on inc'Ome tax te- ing imagination. turns, · · •. • HOUSEHOLD GOODS • PAINTS David M~honey Company 209 State St., Phone 3-369! 129 S. Brandywine A~e., Phone 3-3692 Vol. '1 ' ~ .... ' }: ( mit 6, ~ Bel weE by em] ing son ThE the uni ten Tl thai hole tab! woil too. ratE \Sp! T day frat act! pr.ic $8.4 be II mis for cou wa~ boy ThE the Nor be · can T sin! nig awf bre: c con .as· Loc one ing dar nur the 'I on abE bill bm bra lac fer sor of \in ise1 eVI s:2 sec Me Fr' I r~s tat pe• by ·IJ ter to !vrl scl re1 011 l of .as: ll.' al) Po W< fr• in: of tic W.l df, pc M OT of 8() m st tl1 to

i- e ~ tt :e g y n ~s· 1- iJ. ~- te ~e. !ll 13 it n·, l'd ro e- ln ll. m ld ~h n- ;s It~ ce ril :e. 1e ill at ne n. or he •n- rd .p- n- 1m ll- on ro ce be r's ed en. :~ •ill ed en- we he on ng lth eir :he !re lid ·ed d.\ c. !tr- He .a 21. >m in. .A. D. an by :he tiS- ist tn~ [Ue ng ig,- 'he >n- :ed tin :al- l a :!!e. :he lid ay... up ;lie de~ ·ad ge- a 1al tnd: Jed •J' .. Founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 76, No. 24 SCHENECTADY, N. Y •• FRiDAY, APRIL 8, 1949 PRICE 10 CENTS To Limit Number At P·ro·m . Council Candidates Galore St)PHOMORE JUNIOR SENIOR NOMINATIONS NOMINATIONS NOMINATIONS Stuart Brunet James Carmichael John Arkley l{enry Bungart :Pwican Martin Clifford Brown George Cai•ter Richard Davis Carl Byron Jay €ohn Jack Fischel James· Courter Presidential Elections Set {':~:~:~ey .. ~~~ J!~~bruno ~~~e~~:ran Eight presidential candidates and 43 stlildent ·John Duffy Gleim Kane Thomas Elliot council hopefuls will be the principals in class elec- By Jltmes Bx·yson Rodger :U:imcher James Kllmiey Ciarence GOes tions to be held following the Snring vacation. Leo Kuppersch1ilid James lillburn William Herrman l:' Only 500 couples will be ad~ Bernadotte :tester James LaForest Graydon Loomis ------------· •> John Bowers, John DeBell<>, prltted to 11 San Souci,\ May · John McCarthy Fredl·Ick Mlller Townsend MacCoun ·. Eff• • . Ra:lph Reed and John Weiss 6 , .prom chairman,· John De- James McGrath sam Newcomer Martin :Mandel · · . lCleDCY of the class of '50; George Thoma& •Odell Harry Pterack David Martin d d C 1 Sh · Bello, announced ea-rly this · · · · · · · · Hen on an ary e erwm, . . ~anford Salmon ·Bertram Napier · k d' week. \This year,\ he said· Samuel Stein D • d. '51; and Joseph Fric an by waY of explanation, \the W~ Van Ost ,esire Gerald o:Loughlin, '~2, W,ill emphasis on music and dane- . . · · compete m the pres1dentral Ing, rathBr than crowds, is. Special lntersts are working to election Wednesday, April 20, something we'd like to try out. IF' ·c· v· t' E s t w· pr()vent passage of a governmental at no-on assembly. During the The prom itself is going to be .. '. .. ·. . . () es .. asy Money e 'ne IDS reorganization bill, Mr. James H. chapel program, the eight can- the b~g thing of the weekeeiid, Rowe, Jr., member of the Hoover didates or their managers will unique .as it may seem in con- Hel. 1 Week ar~e~=;ifi:i:!onth~~ 11 ~!~at~~~ : ASCE Priz. e · ~~m~~~~on~s;~~b~;u~~nt~e~~~:i presehnt t hf e i r h~ ahmtp adi gtn temporary collegiate cirlces.\ . . · . in order to be working mem-, · . Chapel, Tuesday noon. speec es, a ter W lC S U eh S THE COMMITTEE FEELS ThEl Interfraternity Council at · bers of the pyramid club, which. The first North-Eastern confer- Mr. Rowe is a member of the will vote by classes on ballots that: the fty:m ·can't comfortably Its regular meeting': Tuesday even-. hal[! finally invaded Schenec- ence of t-he student American So- Hoover Commission which has attached to the chapel slips. hold any more people· dancing; the ing voted to ·recommend to the taP,y. To ·be a member is ciety of Civil Engineers since 1939 spent two. years studying plans for CAMPAIGNING for student tab!es-on-the~upper-balcony effect Faculty Council the continuance simple. You just pay a dollar was held here last Saturday. Stu- more efficient governmental or- council representatives will con- would be jest in the presence of next year of a special Hell Week, and join the bottom .rank of ·dents from Uni{)•n, RPI, Syracuse ganization and which has recently tinue through the week of Aprll too. many san. sou 9 iers; a good during which no exams, papers or the club. The next night you ·and Clarkson attended the all day submitted eighteen reports to Con- 18 , with the sophomore candidates rate was available on just 500 ·quizzes will be scheduled. ~~~~~It do\%.~s. fr~~~dsp. rwo~e~d patyo · pr:;~~~~l Setne of Union won sec- gress. or their managers presenting their \special\ prom favors. Several fraternities expressed the The speaker pointed out that our speeches on Monday, the j<miors Tickets are to go on .sil.le Mon- :opinion that, due to particular bi- . d,J:aft two friends each on the ond prize in the contest for the .government has grown terrifically on Tuesday, and the seniors on day, April 18, in all dormitorie~, 'ltlation rules, they could not apl<le fol!owing night. At the end of best student paper. His paper on ctur:ing the past fifteen years. Cit- Thu,rsday. Friday's assembly will fra:ter!lily houses. and the student by a set initiation week. According . twelve nights you get all the the original work he had done in ing figures to show that the pre- be set aside for talks by the can- activities office, for $7.20. The to Dean· c. w. Huntley, the faculty dollars from the new recruits of .Soil Consolidation Testing won him sent Interest on our national debt didates who were not able to speak price will be upp.ed May 4 to might refuse to cooperate with a that night~a mere $2048 in all. . $10 and a year's subscriptton to is greater than the entire cost of on the assigned day, due to a lack $8.40. No refunds on tickets will Hell Week If thi!Y had no assur- There is only one troul>le with \Civil Engineering.\ The delega- government In 1933, Rowe pointed of time. Voting will be carried on be made after May 4, anoe that all students were to be this get-rich-quick scheme. tion from Syracuse won first prize· out that this growth is the result by means of machines borrowed HAWKERS· will also be com- initiated at the same time. · Each of the Union hopefuls with a paper on \Topographic of a demand by the people that from the city and placed in. Silli- missioned to take stu·dents' orders The Council passed ·a resolution must become the head of a Masppt ingd'!\'ith. thd(l tMhultipexh.': h the government perform more man Hall on Tuesday and Wed- for flowers a .t an attract 1 've dx's- separate . pyramid -of .aimost e ne xscusse e mac me e functions. The important thing is nesday, April 26 and 27. recommending the week of March· had invented for testing soil which ff' count, Negotiations are still under .5-11 as next year's Hell Week, with twice. as many persons as at- to perform these functions as e 1- Free radio time over station · t d u · c 11 b f h ·was cesigned under the school · · tl d · 11 way with several local blossom .April 9-H> and March 26-April 1 as en mon ° ege e or~ e cxen Y an as economxca Y as pes- WRUC has been offered to the boys for the best possible deal. alternate dates. Fraternity men gets paid off. l3y the time the grant-in-aid program. Walter Ma- sible. There is no sense, Ro.we candida. tes and general campai'\'. - \d 1 b h · th h · thias, head of the CE shop, built 'd - t · t d 't 'th .,,.. The discount wilJ probal>ly be ln whose initiations do not fall dur- pyramx c u · as gone .roug · sax • m rymg 0 o 1 WI . a ing is encouraged by the student th · 1 t ff it '11 the machine now in use at Union's b k d t the neighborhood of. 20 per.cent. ing Hell Week are not to be ex- ree camp e ~ pay-o s, WI ·. ro en own governmen · • council elections committee. Post• h 8 589 749 792 b A Soil Testing Lab. E i 1 d.' G None except the official florist will. :cused fi'om. any class assignments. ave • • • · mem ers. s veryone, nc u mg eorge ers will be allowed everywhere but The students attending the con- w h' gt R t t d h be alowed to solicit orders on the It w· .as revealed that .the inter- as m on, owe s a e • as in Memorial Chapel and Silliman terence took a trip through the t 1 d t · th f d 1 campus. . fraternity sing will be held Friday Turbine Building of General Elec- r e 0 reorgamze e e era gov- ·Hall. Th f • t. h . t f t ity . ht M s· AI d 'F p er:nment. Previous reorganization HERE IS the record of the eight e cup or · e m er-. ra ern n1g , ay , on .. exander Fie! . t ' tric and- a tour of the machine 1 h · f 'I d h b ~ sing is to be presented at mid•· as a part of n.,oiii Wee. kend, In _·. ron· .. · age. Pans ave ale ' owever, e- nominees for class presidents. ,.- •. . . shops and fabricating divisions of cause every agency has special night,. ·during the pro~. The cup cease of rain, the songfest Will ·be : American Locomotive Company. interests behind it which want John H. Bowers, Schenectady: awarding is the only · scheduled moved into the gyro prior to the The Mountebanks will give the- The conference was ended by a their agency exempt from reform. class treasurer, Junior Prom dance break in the continuous music. dance. Most fraternities- are ex- 1 t \N y 1 Stat Hi h commx\ttee WRUC M t b k · first performance of their current ec ure on ew or' . e g - They tell Congress, \We're in • • oun e an s, CLAUDE THORNHILL and pected to t~ke par.t in the proceed- way Needs'' by Fred w. Fische, favor of r. eform, but let our agency Pre-Law Society, Psi Upsilon fra- ·1 t . ings production, \The Front Page,\ on· · t 't company are slated ,to p ay w1ce . • Dh·ectoi· of the Bureau of Arterial . alone.\ Unless Congress gives the erm Y· as much as the Teddy Wilson trio. . James. Hogeboom, representing Satu!'day, May 7, at 8:30 p.m., as a roljte planning _of New York State. president the power to do the job John J. DeBello, Oneida, N. Y.! Located at either end of the floor, the Delphics, announced that the part of the Prom Weekend pro- WiJliam Pahl Jr., president of right, Rowe added, they might as class president, student council one outfit Will always be perform.- society will aid In the welcoming gram. the Union student chapter of the well quit. executive committee, chairman stu- ing. Thornhill will provide the of future visiting athletic teams. Leading roles in the play have ASCE, stated that the conference, Later in the afternoon, Rowe dent council elections committee, dance music, leaving specialty' ' been assigned to William Me- the first in ten years, was very took part in a discussion at Oid Delphic Society, Block U Society, numbers and concert selections to· Garry, who portrays the fighting successful. Next year's conference Chapel. Other members of the Interfraternity Council, Newman the trio. Advisor RelatiOnS . editor, and -!ol;m H. Imrie, who will be held in the spring of ·'50 panel which discussed the Hoover Club, chairman Junior Prom; Alpha. The weekend program continues · · . · ·. · t at Syr13:cuse. CommissJon's work at the after- Delta Phi fraternity, on ·saturday, with the authorized A re·commendatjon of policy\ on· plays his star ·repor cr. noon meeting were Stephen K. Ralph Reed, Old Forge, N. Y.: b Ce f 11 · dem'c responsx' .the relat·J·on of studen· t act1'vit1'es OTHER main roles are held by· R bb• R • t a sen o a aca I - 0 · es Bailey, Professor of Governmen president Christian Ass, ociation, b ·l·t· Th ft noon features a· with the1'r· advx'sor··s was approved Joseph P. Vinck,. Wiliam Van Ost, ' IDS. . JgllS 1 1 xes. e a er . at Wesleyan University, and Paul Freshman Camp counselor, Board basebali game, and a set-to on li- by the Board of Managers at a ·James F. McCourt, Bernard Lea- President Carter Davidson an- H Appleby, Lean of the Maxwell of Chapel Associates, Glee Club, b'l,'ary .field with Hamilton over meeting Monday night, and for- son, Lloyd Kieran, Edward Pat- nounced Wednesday morning that School of Syracuse University. Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity. lacrosse sticks. The eveping of- .warded to President Davidson. The node, John Arkley! kRichaRr~ In- J;!uren C. Robbins, assistant pE.o- At Old Chapel, Rowe explained John Weiss, Adams, Mass.: foot- fers a Glee Club concert in Jack- recommendation states that the sogna, Herman Nxc el, xchard fessor o· f speech, radx'o, and theater, f 11 th · k f th H r · B d d M ·t Sil more u Y e wor o e oove ball, Block U Society, Newman son's Garden under th.,e direatlon ,overall policy and operation of a 0 e, an or on verman. now oli sabbatical leave, has re- Commission, stressing that better Club, Phi Delta Theta. of Robert J. Hicks at 7:30. An group, with special provisions for Tickets for the play will go on signed, Mr. Robbins has ·been 1 - f · 'bil\t · d d t P acmg o responsx 1 Y xs nee e George A. Hendon, Lou'lsville, \interesting development\ is prom- ac ivitles similar to. the Mounte- · sale after the spring vacation. working toward his Ph.D. at Ohio in the government- He urged ised further to enhance the spring banks, should be n the hands of. ·Only students with dates will be State University since September. that we let the president do his Ky.: student council, ~;~tudent coun· eve. The concert concluding at . the students in the a:ctivi.ty. . admitted. He will ·remain at Ohio State. j. b cil radio committee, WRUC, :Soard 8:20. students fortunate enough to --------~-----------~----~~-----~...:...---=-=~-~.:..:.::.:..:.::__:__.::.. 0 :.:.:· _____ ~------- of Managers, Alpha Phi Omego, secure tickets may witness .the ·p ed· · · l c d Sigma Chi fraternity. Mountebanks presentation of \The .• . res .. '. e. n. t· .l·a . : ·.a: n. ' z·.d·. a tes L; z·s t p. ' la· .t :Co· rm· ' s Car lye J. Sherwin, Watervliet: Front Page,\ in Hanna Hall. . li . . . . / ~ football; basketball, baseball, chair- House parties will spell out th,e, , · man Sophomore Discipline Com· rest of the night. Informal, spon- By JAMES MURRAY $-~~------~---~·-:------------'-----:-------~~-~---~- mittee, class activities .committee, tatieous, blues <:oncerts are ex:- I Newman Club, GermanClub, Phi pected Sunday morning, follo'W:ed The present p.alitical situ~tion on on the Student. Council and will be a \painless method of direct gov- O'Loughlin favors roll call voting Delta Theta fraternity. b t d campus is somewhat hazy, There the cog hi. re-organizing the class . ernment of students by students\ . by the Student Council and more J h F y classes the nex a:y. aft d ti ak it f i . t'l osep . Frick, Painted Post, - : is one party deflrtitely ~ormed er gra ua. on m es o con- n whxch he will u 1 ize his two publicity around campus for the N. Y.: student council, freshm~ which is presenting a slate of. siderable import, years experienc~ on the student council; He feels that the council football, freshman lacrosse, New• l .ndi•VI•dua· Ji•ty· Talk . council and president candidates John Weiss- stands Jor a Clifford council to determine student should have an important spot in man Club, Phi Gamma Delta . . · ·in each class. There is one party McClane cup for inter-class rivalry, opinion. He· promises direct stu- reviving inter-class rivalry \like pledge. Stressing the need for closer at-. which was \never officially for trying to establish better rela· dent participation on very import• the Sophomore Discipline Commit- Gerald E. O'Lolighiln, Bingham· ten:tion to irtdividuality as opposed formed\ and which has \diS· tions with RPI, for completion of ant issues. However he will put his tee attempted. to do.\ He also is for ton: football, basketball, WRUC, to group membership; C, Graham banded\. There are rumors con- ·the rathsk:,eller, . for the develop- -experience to use on many of the checlting up on the actual func- HELP plan committee, Delta Phi Martin, St. Andrew's exchans;e earning the formation of . a third ment of the HELP plan amo11g problems which arise througl'\out tions of the Sophomore Discipiine pledge. scholar, spoke Monday during the party. ~t the present writing can- neutra.Js. He alE?O includes in his tpe year but which are too minor Committee to find· a, way to benefit regular assembly held in Memorial· didates seem to be afraid of being platform an effort to get the Con- to require the mass opinion of the the freshman class more than it Chli,pal. recognized as party candidates .. cordiensis to publish the entire class. He plans to hold gripe ses. does at present. At present, he Dressed in the traditional gai•b This should be pf!.I'tially overcome minutes of the Student Council in sions for his class where he will says, \it dissolves any unity which of his n•ative Scotiand, Martin · by the .time of the council elec~ · a regular column. ''obtain class opinion without r¢- might come out.'' \' llSked that be ba regardad not as tions. However, we will be able to Ralph Reed stands for better sorting to the all too fr13J1Uent Joseph Frick gives fult support n. typicai Scot but as c .. Q. Martin,. report on the council elactlons. in recreational facilities on the meetings of the entire claSS.\ to the rathskeller. He is interested a:n individual human being. He ou_r next issue. At pre~ent we are campus, for better st.uden't;Jaculty- Carlyle Sherwin wants the vot- in a well-organize·d Sophomore Pointed out that many ef the prxmarlly concerned wxth the elec- administration cooperation. He lng of the Student Council rep.. Disciplinary Committee to \Instill world's present difficulties stem .. tion for class .presidents to be held al'sO wants .an !~XGhange of ideas resentatives ,published in the Con· the greatest amount of class and from generalizations in which one April 20. with other schools O!e~;~.ding to more cordiensis each week. He wants to. ·school spirit possible\ by construe- efficient· and beneflcient student limit proxy votes by constitutional tive hazx'n· a- of the class of '53 He ipstance is con~lqered. as ·being true · The following is a list of' plat- · · <> · • of all. other ·similar situations~ Na- forms obtained from tl\J.e candl· government. amendments. Also, he thinks the is in favor of doing the most pos- tional enmities. and racal hatreds . dates. · · . John Bowe1;s ~~ in favor Of fin- ·office of partilamentarian. should sible to promote the establishment were cited as beginnnig with preju• is_hing the ra,thskeller and . of ex.~ ·be eliminate4 and parliam~ntary of a center of rivalry between RPI dices so developed~ _ SENIORS.....John - DeBello will panding<·the HELP program. Also, authority (Roberts' Rule of Order) l),nd Union comparable to the In reviewing some of the pur- attempt to get a big place for .he would· like to see the scholar- adopted. He said that 1 'he wants to ;'Little Brown Jug\. He states that poses of the exchange scholarship,. graduation to allow for more .than 'sMp qualifications. for activities turn the pbtential energy of the if the Student Council .should have Martin .emphasized that in his two tickets per man .• He is inter-: ooi:ripletely disbanded,. He says that class into kinetic ·energy\. Sher- any say oh the establishment of opinion the most iinportant goal ested in a pr.e-graduat~on dance to • the system is unworthy of the col- ·win and Peter Salmon have an-. the honor system he will be against of the plan was in the nature of be held the we~k prev10us to grad•. lege level. He wotild like to see at nounced that they will donate a it. social interactio.n rather th~h t11e, uat_lon for semors if they want it, lease one dance supported bY the yllfford McGlone trop)ly to the DaBello, Hendon and O'Loughlln mere maintenance of academic PeBello stated . tl1at . the job. of • sl\lnior class to help curtail the .In• sophomore-freshman rivalry wee}t are runn;ing ·on the siline party standing. He went on to note that seni()r_ class president was not JUst: d!Vidual graduation -expenses. whi~~ Sherwin is Jn fa:vor Of con· ticket. None of. the other candi: the administration here seemd not (J.n honorary office b~t t]lat the JUNIORS-George Henaon has tinning. dates ar.~ officially connected with to M of Iii. completely !limllat• mind. ·. fact that the man. elected would be · is!Jued ~ s;atement Which stresses SOP H 0 M 0 R E 8 - Gerald o. party as yet. RPI Shooting An RPI ~reshman, Richard Perry, is being held on two charges relating to the fatal shooto ing of a fellow student on Sunday, April '3. A hearing is scheduled for today. THE VICTIM was Manfred LOwen, a 23-yeax-old German who speht five years in Buchenwald concentration- camp during the war. According to Perry, the lat- ter had 1:lccidentaily discharged a .22 caliber target pistol while ex- amining it, and the b1,1llet had pierced the wall and struck Lowen, who occupied the next ·room. Perry was at'rested on charge of second degree manslaughter and iilegal possession of a weapon. He pleaded innocent to both chal,'ges. Perry was asleep when Lowen's body was found 'Qy fellow students.

:··,· ' '' • !' i :l .! 2 ((tnutnr 1 : M.ember Associated Col- Editorial Office! Washburn Hall. Union Co lege. Pub- liratlon Office, The Ga- ZP(te l'rc;ss, 834 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Po\t Office as Sec- ond C'las~ Mail :Matter . ~UlJ-('t'iption lOc a copy. $3 yea.r: deliYered an~­ \\here 111 the t•Idted ~t'\t('\'l legiate Press and distri- . butor of the Collegiate Digest. Nati'omd Ath••·r· tlsing Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, . Inc., College Publishers , Hepresentative, 420 Ma<li- son Ave .. N. Y. C. Pull- . lished ·every l<'rit.lay of the school year. • HE:-ilOH !WAH II J A~IES ~!CHit.\ Y . . . . . . . . Edtt\t fiJt:(J!{(il•: T t I!Ut'}~ t:ditor 1-:Tllt'Il'n-. Hl·~HBEHT ~AX1..:............ As~or•nttt> EtiltnT J,\~IL:::i ETT!:\Li LH.. ::iv t t.- J;.;;, .. , ~~\~ll'EL HC•~''' If·~ Vj·'t''ll•· Fditnt TI.OBEHT :\A \'L\S. . .. l'hotn Editor \\'ILLL\~1 l'HAYl·~lt .;\1 t111g t'1rl uLtll•'ll .\l~utahvl LEU.:S \\\EJ::;HL'l~t;.J.L ....• \•ling Hu-..u,t· .. ~ )1.1/•.t.t-:• I Jl':\IO.R BOAIW Janie:$ Bosun, Jallw~ l':ull. I )~>JI .\1 < ·n.·g l\.!. \\'olfgang lti<:tll..r HE I~OltTERS Jay Cohn. \\'ay·He. lJa\\1\, .Jerontt• t i.u tilt· I. [loJI,tld GUtl'tln, !rvtng Handler, Jt·Tulllt' h:lt·ill. 1~11 II:t·l d Hobt:rts, Don.t1d ~(la\\al·tz, :\tar!in ~h·g,·l. 1-~t·tt k Stern, HngPr ~te\'l'·tl~. \\'illard TayloJ PHOTO ST.\FF Holwtt Hei Tlt'lll:tllll. Eva11 l:ll·h:tl d-... I t.ilo..-r t 1: !::)c:hwartz, l;t.:tJlht.: .'\: \\ w1dr ull Ill :-.1 :\.E:-.:0. :.. L\ t I· Fr~liellth. ltt.:\.111, Bu1l11!1 ti!U\\h~, L~\ l~Ujltl .... r,rr •. o~, ::ituart H. ~leruaru, h:L·llllt.:th :-;. Sltt.:ld'•ll, Jr CIIHTL.\TIOS STAF'F Henry Duc:tt. J l't'nJPt' 1 i.11 t rrt·r. H·•hH t r.r 'r~on •. , Richard Pllilipp, Ueorge Hetling-torr, ..--\lfted ~te:-:t.·l. HolJI:'rt Strand, \\'illiatn \\'in\h~~ter. IUl'itaJd \'llullg WOLt'tiA:\'(i illEllLR, l'>U<' 1-:ditt>r Activities Dilemma As announced on pag~ 1. :\lr. Robbins has resigned. That fact brings into focus more sharply the problems confronting student activities today. The .Mountebanks must re- vise their plans to take care of the resigna- tion. A -man is needed to replace l\Ir. Hicks who will not be back next year. The radio station sorely needs a competent advisor· with technical radio knowledge. The Philo- matheans need an advisor interested pl'i- marily in debate to aid them in rebuilding. Students in these activities are worried about the future of their organizations. Is the college going to aid them to get the technical assistance they need or is the col- lege going to let them die out? l\Ien from several of these organizations have talked to us about their problems. They feel they need a rock foundation of skill to progress. They feel that they cannot remain in their present state. To keep up participation they need adequate knowledge which can ue gotten only from trained advisors. The question comes up as to whether the college is bound to supply activities wit.h trained advisors. The answer is that there 1s no rule which compels it to do so. However, we feel that activities play a big role in forming a man's future. We think the ad- ministration realizes that activities play just as definite a role as the classroom does. Dr. Carter Davidson has t<:>ld us that he is doing everything he can to aid the activities next year. That aid must include an adequate filling of the jobs previously mentioned. We realize there are administrative prob- lems involved in finding men for the activi- ties. First of all, where will the money come from if a radio advisor is added to the staff? If the budget cannot be increased the an- swer seems to be that he must teach as welL The man ·would want to teach anyway since he would presumably hope to advance. A man must be chosen, then, who would fit into the teaching needs and also the radio needs. The same would be true for each of the other men. If men are found who fill this requirement how should authority be delegated to them? Take music for example. The job of directing the glee club and choir cannot practically be separated from the job of organist Yet, it is too much for one man to handle and a man is badly needed to revivify the band. How should authority be delegated? A man is needed to teach public speaking which should come under the English de- partment. Of necessity, he has to be one of the new men or else some English professor must have less work than at present. How can the requirements of the English depart- ment be met and public speaking still be adequately cared for? Should some of the new men come under the budget of the English Department? These problems which face the administra- tion in their attempts to do justice to ac- tivities must be resolved this year. The Philo- matheans and the radio station are stymied for lack of adequate technical knowledge. Now is the time to aid them. We see some of the administrative prob- lems We also see the keen interest among stud~nts in these activities and the frettings of some of them fl,bout the future. The ad- ministrative problems can be worked out .. It is up to the administration the carry the ball. FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1949 from It Is Rumored St. Andrews Epistle Hello Everybody, ~·------~~-------;----------~----- ByR.A.NA~S Spring i~ coming to England now lesque Unity while simultaneously teurnaments for which they say ·and_ the famous gardena are be- putting forWard the right-wing the en'Mre town shuts up shop. ======;;;;!.•· ginning to sprout. One of the most' views. ·(:Another wwildcat Chas- In September everyone here was Our more erudite sister, the Idol, pointed out in striking thingfl about thi~ island is· tity th,reatened to appear but was remarking on how much Condie the last issue that beneath the portrait .of Dr. Nott the tremendous quantity of flow- evidently too modest to do so.) St. tions had improved oveu the ~ast in the library there is a small basket in which a ers, every yal'd, no matte!' how • Andrews suffers from want of a year, e~n though most articles number of pennies are to be found. . small, has at least a part devoted well-written objective weekly pa- were still rationed. 'The past six The Idol, howevel', real'ly missed the point. We to the ownet''s pet shrub. Eveh per. months have seen a rapid come- went over to -library the other day to investigate . 'the cities take pride in their ap- Although there &re seve1·ar ·re- back in terms of food, clothing, this recently discovered fund. The facts as re- pearapce: l;!ristol, for example, .has ligious organizations and a Divi- etc. Practically everything has {.>otlcd stand. There were, un counting, twenty-two land~:~caped all the traffic circles, nity College, there are no compul- bel;ln taken off the ra;tion and more pennies in the basket under Dr. Nott's povtrait. and the center of the city, a car sory chapel services at St. An· wiH be off in the near future. Meat, IN AN ATTEMPT to get to the bottom •of this park during the war, is' being re- dvews. Chapel is· held on Sunday· fat, bacon, and soap are still ex- ~ntgHHi w!Hcll so {.>Uzzle<.! our frient.ll:l in the outside made into a planned garden. mornings (daily for Divines) and tremely scarce below the wartime ulll<.:e, ...,e <.:onferte<.l' w1th a number of the libra·~Y I'm not sure I've adapted myself is rather :oparsely attended. There ration of bacon, for Instance. Some ~taff. Mr. H~lmer L. ·webb, college librarian, sa1d to a three,term system but it does is no occasion when the, students say that clothing was taken off when que~tiunc:d, that he knew nothing about the make the school year seem can get together unless one con- because the high prices had pre- pennies except their existence and went on to say shorter! The main feature of the. siders the lectures given by the vented many people from buying; that he could offer no satisfactory explanation for, past seven weeks was the desper-. clubs from time to time. Notices the finest wools and tweeds are the presence of the money. Mr. Webb felt, that; ate struggle to keep abreast of such as those read in the Union sti'll \for export only,\ as are most smce the amount was small, twenty-two cents, there ·the social whirl; there was a for- ·Chapel are posted in Cage, a bulle- manufactl!red items >like cars. would be no investigation .by the co!llptroller's office. mal dance practically every week. tin board for the use of the Uni- Others feel that the sudden dera- Onc of the :;ecretaries, who prefers to remain 'St. Andrewans consider the winter vel-sity. Personal notes, packages, tioning was done with an eye to, unname<.l, eame to our rescue. Mrs. said· term the poorest of the three and etc.; may be left there, as well as the forthcoming General Election. she was informed that the pennies were placed' try (successfully!) to inject some annou:t;1cements concerning exams Most of the papers condemn the in the basket under the Nott portrait by a certain spirit to keep things going. and scholarships. . government's Argentine palicy eult uf student~ who made this offering at the altar OF COURSE, all the people are- InCidentally, the applications for which they feel was responsible of :;chular:;hip twl..:e eueh year to insure success· n't socially crazy all the time, and the Union Exchange a-re in; the ·for the recent cut in the meat ra- u1 !ina! examination:;. Mrs. ---- -- said she did there were the usual activities to· choice will be made by the Senatus tion. The short articles not with- not know how long thi~ cult had been in existence, : satisfy the saner elements in the some time next term. Despite the standing, living in England (and nor any other particulars of their rituaL A diligent University. St. Andrews has quite negligible stage facilities the Uni- even more so in Scotland) is a ,;eatch has been totally fruitless, however if our a selection of societies-everything ver·sity has an alert and capable great deal easier than it was' a deduction·s a1 e correct, and the cult holds forth in from Scottish country dancing to Dramatic Society. They have al- year ago. the library, it appears that the members communi- mountain climbing. However, the ready presented two three-act, In many ways the coming term cate in German. Certain inscriptions, thought by majority of the students take little plays, \The Gathering Storm\ and should be the climax of a wonder- ~ir. Webb to be of an occult nature have been • positive interest in the clubs, re- ~'Outward Bound,\ and are in re-. ful year. The Kate Kennedy pro· found on the walls. The na:ture of the German suiting in constant attacks on stu- hearsal for Congreve's \Lo:ve for cession - an historical pageant used however. leads us to believe that the en- dent apathy in the monthly val'- Love,\ to be given in conjunction with the most \beautiful\ Beja;nt, :;criber\ art: nut Getman scholars. This, it is hoped, sity magazine College Echoes. with the Charities Campaign, In i.e., Freshman, as Kate-is the ab,olves the Modem Language Department. There is also a wildcat organ addition to this they had the tradi- flrst major event. This will be For Your Information Spring Recess, Saturday, April 17, inclusive. :\londay, April US-- called Argus, writen by an un- tiona! Guest Night when one act followed by Charities Week, dur- known hand, which has set itself plays by students are enacted. It ing which time the whole of Fife up as critic-in-chief of St. Andrews is done on a competitive basis, the is canvassed by students collecting manners, morals and mistakes. It author of the winning play (de- money to aid (this year at least) April 9 1 noonl~Sunday, appears weekly in a mysterious termined by audience applause) a home for the blind and World Clas:;e~ resumed. Daily assembly, Memorial Chapel, noon. Student· council candidates. Glee Club rehearsal, Memorial Chapel, 4·:30 p.m. Band rehearsal, Gymnasium trophy room, 7:30: p.m. ' d Philomathean Society meeting, English Rea - ·manner and at one time enjoyed getting a pewter tankard. Student Relief. A carnival spirit great p1·estige. As it grew more ST. ·ANDREWS is best known prevails; a Miss Charities is hysterical in its attacks it lost in- abroad for its golf. The four elected, bazaars, auctions, fancy fluence and is now regarded as a courses are excellent and one, the dress hops, etc., are held; resi- curiosity, not a potent voice -in Royal and Ancient is considered dences and Qther groups make student affairs. the most difficult in the world, floats for the parade; and every- This by no means exhausts the (The difficulty is increased at the one generally goes wild. This is list of \opinion\ publications. The first tee because the (not so) the rumored effect of a Charities Communists put out Unity, a not- Royals and (very) Ancients stare Week on St. Andrews. What it is ing Room, Bailey Hall, 7:30 p.m .. Octavo Singers rehearsal, Memonal p.m. Chapel, 8 too-violent attack on capitalism. It and sneer at the hapless golfer. actually like I'll soon know. That's is the only paper to feature var- Eisenhower refused to play the all for now. , Tuesday, April 19- . fee to be payable at Last day for graduauon Comptroller's Office. Daily Assembly, Memorial Chapel, noon. Stu- dent Council candidates. Flying Club meeting, Civil Engineering Buil.d- ing 304, 7:15 p.m. American 'Male Chorus, Memorial Chapel, 8:30 p m Twenty veterans of the armed forces. No ·admission fee, but a collection will be taken. Wednesday, Apl'il 20- Glee Club reh<'arsal, Memorial Chapel 4:30 p.m. Geology Club nteeting, Geology Laboratory 24, 7:30 p.m_ Glee Club Advisory Committee meeting, ·English Reading Room, Bailey Hall, 7:30 p.m. American Male Chorus, Memorial Chapel, 8 · p.m. No charge. American Association of University Women meeting, Old Chapel, 8 p.m. American Chemical Society meeting, Chemistry Laboratory 201, 8:15 p.m. Speaker, Charles D. Coryell of MIT, on the subject of \The P1 eparation and Properties of Seven Synthetic Elements.\ Thw·sday, April 21- Piacement interviews, Sears, Roebuck Company, Wells House, Daily assembly, Memorial Chapel, noon. Stu- dent council candidates. Faculty Men's Club meeting, Hale House Fac- ulty Lounge, 7:30 p.m. Mohawk Scientists and Engineers meeting, Old. Chapel, 8 p.m. Octavo Singers rehearsal, Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Fraternity night. Friday, April 22- Daily assembly, Memorial Chapel, noon. Stu- dent council candidates. Glee Club orehearsal, Memorial Chapel, 4:30 p.m. Cosmopolitan Club meefin;;, Silliman Hall, 7:80 p.m. Pre-Law Club meeting, English Reading Room, Bailey Hall, 7:30 p.m. Octavo Singers concert, Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m_ Tickets sold at door. Future Evl'nts-Prom Weekend, May 6 and 7. Spe- cia-l performance by Mountebanks of \Front Page\ for students and dates, 8 p.m. Graduate Record Exam\inations May 2 and 3. Final examinations, May 30-June 9. Com- mencement, Sunday, June 12. Pre-registration Scheduling Students who do not expect to return in the fall, with the exception of tl~ose who al-e graduat- ing, should report to the registrar's office at once. Students who wish to change their curricula for the fall semester must see Dean Huntley before the spring recess. Schedules for the following students will be made in the Registrar's Office, and students need not re- port unless called for: All civil and electrical engineering students (ex- cept present terms 6 and 7 C.E. and Term 6 E.E.), Present Term 2 physics majors. Present Term 2 B.S. in chemistry students. All other students should :report for preparation, of schedules to their advisors as follows: Present sophomores and juniors, between April 18 and 30. Pr.esent freshmen, between IJI4ay 2 and 6. Any student falling to comply with this regula• , tion will not l:>e assured of a place in the ,coliege for the next academic year. The program of courses will be sent to the fra- ternities and dormitories right aftet· the spring re· cess. It will also be available at the library and registrar's office at that time .. To avoid disappointment due to over-election in various courses, it is important that students report to their advisers promptly. sity sports. The conservative voice first hole because of this!) Next See you next year, , is Veritie, a poor attempt to bur- term there will be several cup MITCH RABBINO The Reader Writes Dear Editor: There appeared in last week's Concordiensis, a feature editorial, signed by C. Graham Martin, con- cerning the brief program presented in Chapel by the Union CollegeDance Band. ~oth the manner in which this editorial was presented, and its contents leave no alternative but taht this critique be an- swered if a critique it was. First, it must be said that the ConcordiensJ.s was guilty of unsound journalism in that it failed to print, elsewhere in the paper, a review of the program done by a competent critic. This point is especially significant in view of the fact that Mr. Martin has, on various occasions, admitted to me that he is ih no position to judge the merits of the type of music which was presented. I do not know whether this admitted incapability arises from a lack of contact with or an intolerant attitude toward this pat·ticular type of music. However, I am in- clined to believe that it is the result of a \shade\ of both. Therefore, it must be admitted that The Concordiensis has, once more, sacrificed the ethics of journalism for the sake of instigating provoca- tive issues. The Concordiensls cannot be expected, however, to shoulder all the blame for this exhibition of bad taste. I must point out to Mr. Martin that one does not deal with such terms as \flatted thi!lteenth\ (it really does exist, Graham), and \sharpened nine- teenth\ (which I haven't yet invented, Graham) without at least a schoolboy knowledge of them. It is not my purpose to attempt to justify Mr. Martin's contention that the music we played should \mean\. To Quote Mr. Martin's graciQus statement, de bo enjoy what we play, and, at the expense of being accused of shallowness, I might add that we search for no specific .meaning. In all\the years that Ameri- can popular music has been presented to the public, it has been enjoyed for \listening's sake\ without the pursuit of a \burning search\ for the symbolistic approach to the meaning. Nevertheless, all of Mr. Martin's sins could be forgiven if it were not for the misconstruction which he placed upon Miss Lynn's motives in her renditio:(l of \Night and Day\. I am afraid that Mr. Martin's \search for meaning\ divulges a par- ticular facet of his own psychological make-up. What were you thinking of when she was singing Graham? . . • We were enjoying Miss Lynn's well~ styled vocalizing! It iinpresses me that you were hardly fair to Miss Lynn in referring to her stylizing in the tone and terminology 'which you used . . · especially since she donated her valuable time and vocal talent gratuitously. Mr. Mar,tin asks \What is this Modern Music? Graham, it is really very simple. In the beginning there were people in A.merica, and· they needed music for expression . . • a native music. Jazz wasn't born, it evolved, and like all art forms, it developed; like, all art forms, it has a latest stage, and this Modern Music is its latest stage. This is far from an exhaustive exposition of the nature of American fall~ music. I would suggest that before criticizing Modern Music any further, you attain a more adequate understanding of the subject through reference to such authoritative sources as Rudi Blesh's book \Shining Trumpets\ ARTHUR A. AGNELLO Dear Sir, It appears that my article on Mr . .Arthur Ag· nello's concert has caused some offense; partly, as far as I can gather, because it has been taken as a serious criticism, and partly because as such, it was not balanced by a less prejudiced and illore competent review; I take this opportunity then, to state more ex- plicitly that It was intended to amuse; I have neither the technical knowledge nor the objective attitude to· attempt a serious criticism of the music which Mr. Agnello's band play-s; and my article of last week was a purely subjective and prejudiced comment upon the concert, intended for-, from- the flrst, for the April's Fool Section. 'rhat part of the article was in poor taste, I can only agree. Possibly the influen<ie of that Scottish Protestant dictator, John Knox, is to be seen at work h,ere. Inconclusion, sir, I offer my sincere apologies to any whose feelings have been outraged because of this misunderstanding, Yours, etc., GRAHAM MARTIN. Summer Session All students planning to attend the summer ses- sion, except those who will take surveying, will make out their summer schedules at the same time that they report. to their advisers for making their fall programs. SERVING UNION\S MEN FOR nARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Near 1 FERRY '\ JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS . For 'HATCHES and JEWELRY RepairinCJ and Engraving Pens and the Finest Gifts Cornfll' $fat- and Center Sta. ,. .Fil I pi< on WI: St. th~ ga an by by Ot R< pa on Ia< or~ is RE 19! fol hll j BI foJ fl'l er! 'ge du ca th ta: na fr< or• is a:b 5 sti m• B< pit sp a flr :WI Sc Wl fu F1 nc TJ th n( fe H, sl:J fl~

49 ast six ore ex- off are .. tO• the ra- ith- a a the be · is ncy ake is ties t is 0 ern th!l ms, the her the .. as 1 it ex- ave of ced the at to of FRIDAY. APRIL 8, 1949 Lacrossemen Open B'EN.CH . BtlSTERS t:.==By JIM ETTINGER-. -·-- . The varsity lacrosse squad has i picked Up some valuable pointers on the \old Indian game\ this pa.St week from Gilber.t Roundpoint, a . ' St. Regis Indian, wlio arrived on the campus last Flida.y. Gil • is very proficient at. the. game founded· by his forefathers,. and he proved this last Summer by scoring 12 out of 19 goals made; by St. J;tegis when they trounced Ottawa. He is the son of Frank' Roundpoint, who is the Indian partner of Colin Chisholm, the only prominent manufacturer of lacrosse sticks in Canada. Gil was invited to Union by la- crosse- coach Vic Starzenski. This is not the first time that a st. Regis piayer has been here. In 1925 Vic brought down Abe Jacobs foi· a couple of weeks and found Champ$ at Wo.-k Photos by Woodruff Pictured above in photo at lelt is Stuart Lewis getting ready to pin Jack McC!!-rthy (in the air), as he was crowned champioOn in the 175-184 lb. Wl'estling · class. In photo a.t right, Bill Hesse, left, and Ja()k ~Ulfoi'd tangle in the feature of the night. B~;ah~: :~t~a!~!m!!fs Sixteen ChampionsCrowned ::we:!:; ~:::s!~ :o ~=:~~eo~~~~~ ln Final ln,tramural Matches ers and students will be able to ·get better acquainted with him. during his two week stay here on ·him to be most helpf1,1l. campus. Sixteen individual boxers and~-------------­ wrestlers slugged and tugged ~ .---------..--------~ their way to championshiP crowns last Friday night in Alumni Gym before an overflowing crowd of CHAMPIONS The freshman lacrosse team of spectators. Out of eight defend· this season has some outstanding ing champions, five retained their talent, In the form of Herb Huf- crowns, one was. shared, and two nagel and Bob Hass, Herb comes defeated. Boxing 125-134--Roger Winchester . 135-144--Robert Garlock. 145-154--Walter Jenney. 155c164-William Hesse. 165-174,--Jaclt Knox. 175-184o--George Best. Heavyweight - Walter Somer- from Baltimore, the foremost la- · The Betas walked off with team crosse center of the country. He boxing trophy by scoring 24 .points, is an attackman of exceptional . while Delta t]psilon and the Rebels · ability and it was he who scored tied for the wrestling cup with 30 5 of Union's 7 goals when the points apiece. Since the Rebels stickmen played the Seventh-Reg!- are not a completely organized ment Armory this past Winter. gro!lp, D.U. will carry the trophy Bob, who plays defense, was to their mantel. ville. Wrestling 0-125-James Musty. 125-134,--W!lliam Wilcox. 135-144-Donald Morrison. 145-154,--Robert Riley and picked by the New York City sports writers and coaches to be a member of the All-Metropolitan first string of New York when he was atending Garden City High School . ¥ ¥ ¥ The intramural boxing and wrestling matches really drew a full-house to Alumni Gym .last Friday night, and the fans did not go away disapointed either. The Ike Wiliams-Kid Ga.vilan, bat- tle, fought the same night, had nothing on the free punching slug- fest between Jack Milford and Bill Hesse for the 155-164 lb champion- ship .of .'Union .College •.. Blood flowed freely, and . both fighters were so dazed in the last roUild (partly by the punches tlu·own and partly by the .frantic yells of the spectators) that tliey could hardly stan,d. :(. ¥ If. Basketball and Tennis Coach Pete. Nistad is getting quite a reputation for his linguistic abil- ity as a public speaker. He has been engage(!. to speak at three sports banquets: April 7 at Al- bany College of Pharmacy, April 9 at the New Paltz High School, and :June 3 a~ Draper High School In Schenectady. ~ :{o ¥ Baseball Coach Al'i; Laiwrence may try out two first string out- fielder$ from last year, Al Wade and .Chick .Meehan, .in .infield berths ~ an experiment; Meehan formerly was a third baseman .in years past. NOTT RESTAURANT and BAR • Right Outside Gteen Gate WINES- LI9UORS and B~ER Louis .Barber Shop Favorite of UNION MEN Near College 201 PARK 'PLACE Milford-Hesse• The feature boxing bout of the night was the hard-fQUght slug- fest in the 155-164 lb. blass be- tween Jack Milford of Delta Phi and Bill Hesse of D.U., won by liam O'Conner. 155-164o--John Greve. 165-174o--Ra.ymond Tuthill. 175-184-Staurt Lewis. Heavyweight-Jack Weiss. W!l- Hesse in a three round .decision. Schwar'tZ of the rebels with a re· Both men drew blood with power- treating style. While being pur· packed punches, and both were· sued around the ring by aggressor knocked groggy during the fight. t .,. d t The action was so concentrated at Schwar z, •v.Linchester manage · o keep landing the punches which times that Ed Fitz, the referee,· counted. Other standout perform- had quite a problem on his hands. ances, both won by close decisions, Boxing were defending charnpien Bob One of the best boxing perform- Garlock's victory over Ed Keever ances of the night was turned in of Sigma Chi In the 135-144 lb. by Roger Winchester, a pledge of class .and Walt Jenny's win .over Sigma cp.i, who wrested the 125- Pete Bullis in the 145-154 lb. class. 134-lb. championship floom Leo ·(Continued on Page 4l a favorite Easter Habit I ••• for many an Easter, college men have favored the fine fit and good looks of Arro-w White Shirts Both oxfords and broadcloths in your preferred collar styles are now 'avail.etb I~ at your Arrow dealefs. See him today for an Arrow white shirt and Arrow tie •. Shirts $3.65 up, Ties $1.00 up. ARROW . ... SHII'tTS and l'IES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS < ······~···········fl·~········i················-.·-·.- •. ' 3 Season Tomorrow Baseball Squad Dutc:.hmen to Tackle Strong Forming Rapidly Army Ten on Library Field A 0 N . By DICK GEYER S . pener earS Tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 p.m. on Library Fi~ld the Despite the fact that early sea- ·varsity lacrosse team will open its '·19 season against the ~~c~in~~t a~,;~~~c!~ e~a:!:~~i Army. Army, who is being decked for Intercollegiate Lacrosse squad is rapidly beginning to take . Champi0n and who is known nationally for being as adept at form, due to long outdoor practice lacrosse as it is at football, is bringing a powerful, aggwessive, sessions. The playevs Intend to and well-coached organization to Schenectady. . stay on campus during vacation to. R.P.I. Defeated o/-------~-----~-----~ put themselves in tip top shape Already the Cherry and White I . for the opener against Rochester,. from R.P.:t. have felt the on- the yearling team _Present a dif- ·only two weeks away. slaught of the Cadet attack when c~It problem of c~lOICe. Th?se who Wealth of Material 'they were defeated last week by a w11l see much acbon are Bill Hoff· With a wealth of material on 11 _ 7 score in a practice game at man, Norm Car~, Matt Kazlaus~as, hand, Coach Lawrence should field W t p . t Th A b. d f Bert Napear, Jim Gallagher, Drck a better tha . verage· s d th· · es · om · e rmy Ian ° Phi'li'ps Walt C ey d F · n a qua IS. ball is one of ruggedness and. ' · aus • an r.an year if the pitching shapes up. power, and it is in this dep· artment Foresta. Probably the strongest position of: the nine this season Is the catch- . ing po~t. Two men, Billy Eade, a veteran from last year, and Cal Schmidt ·both look equally good, and they will probably share the. ·backstop duties. Practically sure ·bets to •strurt. in . the infield 'are Captain Truman· Rice at shortstop and 6' 4\ John Togneri, an AlbanyPharmacy stu- dent, at first base. Cookie Sherwin and Chick Meehan, a former outfielder, will battle it out for the third base post, while Paul Hochull and Bob · Engisch are leading contenders for second base at the present time. Outfield Uncertain ' . Courtesy Army Army Midfield Hartinger The oQUtfleld is the most uncer- tain spot on the squad, with sev- eral good candidates vying for berths. Al Wade Is probably the leading contender at present. This past week Ray Pomeroy looked especially fast chasing flys, while Bob Staley showed up well at the. plate.· The six pitchers on the squad, that the final outcome of the game Ed Carsky, Bob Faubel, Walt might be decided. Krupa, Buck Wittner, Blll 'Kaz- Union on the other hand appears nowski, and Ti!d Herlyn have about to be ready for anything that the equal ability. The most improved· West Pointers might wish to pull hurler of the lot is Faubel, who out of tpeir bag of tricks. Co- has shown good speed and control. captains Bill Pahl and Bhll Brady o together with Jim Flynn on de- . Tickets Ready fense and Bill Grant in the goal A · 2 appear capable of stemming any pril 4 will be Unum College of the opposition's sustained drives Day at McNearney Stadium when while Hal Van de Car has de- the ~chenectady Blue .Jays meet veloped a deft and sound attack. the. Union baseball team in an ex- hibition game. This will be the Attack first game of the season for both Last year'13 captain By George, teams. Jerry Rost, and Tom Quinlan seem Tickets are now available at tbe to be the three likely starting can- Athletics office in the Gym. They didates at the attack posts because are pri5!ed at -$1.20. of their personal ability and their coordinated team play. The mid- field line-up at the moment pre- SOFTBALL sents a problem. The selection of this part of the staxting team is as yet undetermined because many of the men are so evenly matched. All-Americans In the Army line-up will be two All-Americans from the '48 squad: John Rust in the goal, and Jim Hartinger at midfield. Other ·stand~ outs who will be present Satur- day are Art Gerometta, Boyd Allen, and Tom Bullock, defense; Philo Lange and Wallace Ford to- ~ether with Hartinger at midfield; md Wallace Nutting, Richard Nel- ~on, and Russell Preuitt at attack. Also with the team are Ray Mala- dowitz, who is expected to take over Bill Yeoman's spot in tlle center of theArmy football line this fall, Bobby Lund, who is a regular guard on the football squad, and John Trent, captain- elect of Blaik's \Black Knights\ who plays defensive end. ' Davidson to Perfo1•m One of the outstanding features of Saturday's game will be the throwing out of the first ball by President Carter Davidson. The players will surround him and it will be a free for all as to who is the rightful possessor of the ball. The only prize that can be guar~tn­ teed to the winner is the possibil- ity of a broken nose, or worse. After showering, the players will go to Hale House where a joint Union-Army dinner will take place. AU players, coaches, and managers from both tea.Ills will be present. Presid~nt Davidson, Director of Athletics, Hal Wittner, assistant coaches Fred Wyatt and Hal Van de Car, and other dignitaries will be there, and it is hoped that each <Continued.on Page 4) For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN Intramural director Art Law- rence announced this week that entries for the softball league will be acceptable until tomorrow noon. The .schedule will get underway April 25, with the introduction of daylight saving tip1e. Not only are there . many hold- overs from last year's squad, but the addition of good players from · William H. Plath We have Arrow White Shirts for Easter Come in quick on\:! take your pick from our selection ~f fine white Arrows-both oxfords and broadcloths in many collar models. See our new Arrow ties, too! . Oxfords from $3.95- Broadcloths from $3.65 NUSB-A_UM'S 60 I Union Street AUTO SERVICE L. G. Balfour Co. BADGES STEINS RINGS JEWELRY GIFTS FAVORS STATIONERY PROGRAMS CLUB FINS HEYS . MEDALS TROPHIES Write or Cal.l CARL SORENSEN WATERFORD, NEW YORK Telephone 644 • a SLACKS TROUSERS • • • • 1,000 Pairs to Pick From • • • • • ROCHESTER PANTS STORE • 412 STATE ST. - Upstairs • •••••••••••••• GAT~EWAY Restaurant DELICIOUS FOOD COURTEOUS SERVICE I 04 State St. Sch'dy, N. Y. ..

. I ·i· ;. Davis Cited .... F~l D'AY; APRIL Q; 1949 Rathskeller Hendon Manage BQxing, Wrestling 0 c·· d to replace R.oy Westlund continues; . . . . • . · . . • . f (C ti· d p a) J n· . erme. n _In, addition tq Harry j(uniholm, George A. Hen!i).on was elected · on • nue from · .age · \ : Art Hagar, and .Jack Fischel, Mike t ti . Ski team, Captain George .Best W()n With t\e 0 . peni·ng·. meet against ... Forte has entered t.he.. 1_•ace. . _T. ,..._ .. e . Mr. Wilford H. Ketz, coordinator· s a .on manager of WRUO at an· a close one over :ba;ve :M;artin in '~ · '' of student activities, has requested election· held F-riday, April 1. Hen- the 175 _ 184 'lb. division, while Walt Trinity two weeks away, track; first three have the 1nsi!ie tra~k that construction of the Rath- don sucqeeds Franklin B. Loving, Somerville took 1). three round de- coach Bill Ketz is trying to iron-' and Hagar lolilks as though lle Will skeller be held up until at least Jr., who ·became station manager · 1 f 1 k J \'\\i k out the iast few difficulties- whicla' be number one man. Dr. Arthur K. Davis, professor· 1 • J '? 18 · 00 rom P 'l\C Y oe \'~' c 1 a ll'e ahead of hi'm. On· the whol·e Fred Oyer, nu.mber -one 1ligh $2,000 has been collected. This asL ap.uary. . pledge of ]?hi. Gamma Delta, in ' t f 'd of socl_ology at Union College, re- would give the Rathskellel' Com- OTH;ER 1\IEMB:ERS of the ex- th h i h 1 the cindermen still shape up as ai jumper, may be Ios. lilr a coilsl ~ ceived recognition in the national mittee a better idea of the actual: ecutive board of the station chosen e eavywe g t c ass. powerful outfit which shoul4 re.'. erable part 'Of the season,. Oyel,' i~;~. magazine Newsweek issued April amount they will have to work in last week'IS election are ArU;mr· Wrestling. pee.t their 90 1/~4 2/~ triumph, under doctor's c.are _bec~;~.~se of :low 4. In a one page article Joseph .B. with. F. ·Casey, program manager; Ar- Iri the wrestling bouta two ·over Trinity last year blood pressure. Tfns Will put an Phillips writing on \Sources of FIFl'EE.11i1 HUNDRED dollars thur L. Burn~, tech!licf;l.l manager;· Rebel~, Bob Riley and Bill O'Con- To Practice ever Vl\catio • added strain on Ed· Williamson, the Russian American Tension\ de- v· t H c 11 b · ner fought to a draw to sha·re the.· · · · · · u .. other high J'u:inper. has. '·ee11 .raised bv the Rathskeller· Incen · ot•ye· ' USlness man• K tz ·'II h h'i d voted most <>f his column to the \ ' d H ld J. H h b cham. pionship· of the 145-:154 l·b. · e Wl ave s squa · prac- Committec. This sum do.es .not fn- ager; an · aro · ug es, pu • ti · h ·t k t paper Dr. Davis wrote In the r it n division. Riley was defending his · cmg ere nex wee s artlng L.-\'r\\SSe elude contributions collected by tc Y ma ager. W d d H. h h d h' · · ..,.., \ American Journal of Sociology No- H d t· h' · lastyear•s· title. Ray Tut·h·1 ·n of e nes ay .. e • as a ts. 1llalil•: fraternities and turned over to the en on, on accep mg IS new t i t' t i 1 d (Continued from Pa:ge 3) vember '47. off! e II d f f h . 't' t' D.U. displayed good tug\of•war .s ays· r·unn ng Ime r as every ay· Interfraternity Council to be · c ' ca · e · or res tnl ta IVe on tJ:i:ii ·t k d '11 •· DESCRmiNG th b th t f th b f th techn ·iq· ue, an·d_ fin· .al·ly pm' ned Jack s pas wee an Vv1 con<i1nue: will. have a few word's to sa_y ·c. o. n.- . e paper · Y lumped into a single donation. . e par 0 .e mem ers 0 . · e · t'l th · ·· · t Davt's entitled. \Some Souz·ces of WRUC taff d di t d Wilson .of Phi Delta Theta to re-· so up un 1 e openmg mee · cerning· the outcome. of the_ g~:~me Seven fraternities have contrib- · . s an pre. · c e an ex- N wt C 1 h E.d T\' American Hostility to Russia\ uted approximately $ 500 to a fund .panswn of the ser.v 1 .ces given by tain his crown in the 165-174 lb; Ma. e d u.vber,Lasopk .. Ohi_Uorhe · · b:w;;.-: and the calibre of. the individual Ph 'll' all d 't th nl tt t th t ti t it 1 t .class. Jack We1'ss. easily p1'nned · y, ·an ...: e c s In ave · een: teams 1 1 P 8 c e I e 0 Y a emp which the Interfraternity Council . e 5 a· on· 0 s 15 eners. th ·t· k t · th' k' d '11 · · ' so far to apply a scientific yard- Lansing Tim Eyck of Phi Gamma • e s lC ou!! m Is wee s .r1 s. stick to this tension. Professot· . is rais,ing. Delta Phi, Psi U, Delta 'Th t p • C t Delta to retain his heavyweight 'La:May turned in a 1:28 timing in, Williams Next Davis considered a specialist in . U, Chi Psi, Kappa Sagma, Phi . ea re l'lCe U crown. One of the fastest d!'lci- t?e 66 '0, which is quite fast for this The lacrosse team ex:pects tQ the study of comparative institu- Delta Theta, and Phi Gamma Delta The Colonial Theatre in Alba:ny sions of the night was won by -~1me of yeru,, Culver ~as 'veen look~ . rexnain at the college d\lring the tions, was lauded for his work have made contributions. Kappa has made arrangements to show Stuart Lewis of Phi Gamma Delta ,m~ very well an4. Wlll oe t?-e· ace entire spripg recess. T!J.e· me~ which itemized the causes into Alpha contributed earlier. ,the picture \Symphony Pastoral\ as he pined: Jack McCarthy of m1Ier and half mtlers, :z:tll.kmg up bers. wiH live in their respecti:ve three main categories: (1) national Phi Sigma Delta fraternity will dul'ing the Easter weekend, April Chi Psi in the ,opening minute. fo~ the loss o~ Don Wright. ba.ck- . dormitories and fraternity houses feelings, ( 2 ) special sense of dan- reduce the hazing of its pledges 16-17. Union College students may · shm ran a very strong two lll.ile and will eat .at Hale House to- ger, and (3) scapegoating. during Hell Week so that they will attend showings of the film at half AlEE w·.·nner~s this week, showing plenty at the gether with the mempers of the 0 _______ be able to spend time cleaning up price by showing an activities card finish. baseball and track teama< who will thtJ Rathskeller site. The actual at the ticket -office. The pl'ice re- Stuart C. .Beyrel and .Beno The sprinters have been rather: a:lso st~y at the college over vaca- Commencement construction of the Rathskeller will duction aTso applies to guests of Rternli.ch were the winners in the disappointing up· until now. ·Cap\' tion. The team feels this is a 5tart as soon as a building permit students. . recen,t AIEE speaking contest. tain Ollie Personeous has not. necessary step to insur!) that the Union College commencement has been obtained, but cleanup de- ---IO--- Beyrel' gave a paper \Constant looked fast as he has just broken players Will be in good Co()ndition tal 'ls ha beg t t th b Alpha Ph1' Amega Volt 'Transmitters\ while Sterrilich 11 secon·d th · t· · th 100 t w· 1· exercises, usually held in Mem- · ve un o se e ase- ~· v s · · us ar m e . , for· he ,11 tams game at Williams.:: orial Chapel, this year will be held ment of Old Chapel' in order. A~thur H. Swenson was elected• spoke on \The World Under BiH Abbott, who has not run in, ·town a week from tomorrow. Wil- A.n th t' f th d f u Stress\. Both men will tr.avel· to the t · 'h · d K t ' · · · in the Plaza Theater in downtown - o er mee mg o · e execu- presi ent o the -nion College · wo ye.ars, as cause e z con- ·Jiams, a1though not a;;; strong as Schenectady in order to accommo· tive committee of the Student chapter of Alpha Phi Omega at University of Vermont to partie!- st~rn?-tiOn with his inability .to hit. , Army, will be tough. They were Councl .l h Id th· k t d\ · ff' ld M pate in th. e North-eastern AIEE w1n f date members and friends of the was e Is wee o Is- an electiOn of o tcers he on- n_ mg orm. defeated b_ y RiP.!. after a. grueling th t d b M K Studen.t Conference. · Th h t f j i' ' largest graduating class in Union's cuss e reques rna e y r. etz. · day evening, April 4. Other -offi- ~=============~ e un or a ave! n thrower struggle, 9-~. hi:otury, President C~outer Davld~on r------~~ ........ .__.......,_...__..._-. li • .. • • • • • •• • •• .... has announced. The exercises will 'N E W S p A p E R. \ be held on Sunday, June 12, at LANGE & RAPP l0: 30 a.m. FOR SA'·E Ph THE SIZE of the present gradu- . a.; 'GfmGC:f atlng class is 252 seniors and 16 Are you interested in a graduate students. This number, news career? Here is a PRESCRIPTIONS plus representatives of other Union University departments and growing business. Money· \Service for the Stck\ families and friends, would have maker. Weekly in Boston required limiting each graduating area. Recognized leading student to but two or three guests • fi ld C 1 If the exercises were held on cam- paper In e • omp ete pus. By using the theater, each equipment. Linotypes, Lud· student will be able to invite six low, Caster, Saws, Goss· gu;~~:· will not be the first time Web press.- $41,500. that commencement exercises have been held off campus. .Before 1925, when Memorial Cliapel was erected, exercises were held for many years in the First Presby- terian Church in Schenectady. GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING Zl5 STATE ST.-Sinoe 1898 Shoe Oleaners and Dyera Bal1 1 s Inc:. BebuD4ers 633 State St. 204 Union St. PHONE 6-3456 Call Ball and Ball Will Cedi FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 1911 ~. o:t sSo\\~ ()R\\\}1~~~ ST.JlWlURS ~ 166 Jay Street II FORMAL WEAR FOR RENT Custom Made Clothes Complete Cleaning Service Avon Cleaners 21 State· Street PHONE - 4-2722 r CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6·9554 1115 IARRETT STREET GAZETTE PRESS. Printers \Itt ,\·.: ... . ~kes plenty of skill t . . Patrrcta Morison p' t _ o Produce a top 'hit, acts at th C I IC ured in a relaxed mo . , says e enturyTheatre \And ment between certainly have the skili wh• • the brewers of Schaefer It's the fl en 1t comes t . nest I ever tasted!\ . • o makmg beer, why We say, \Our hand h Try It yourself and see as never lost its skill!\ - .. j ~ J.. n h ec tl ir g• A cl Ol ii dl H: p: le tE o: Sl ii tl fc ir c: d g b 0' 1:: p a o: n tc ft n ] , e li d t I1 I1 v 8 t t t 1 g t $ I l j i 'i

~e <ik i$ an to to- a as F ou,nded at Union College in 1817 Vol. 76, ·No. 24 '7\ . SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1949 P.RICE 10 CENTS Hot Stuff Council Candidates Campaign; DeBello Voted. Senior Prexy John DeBello was reelected®---~~~--~~--- ·® By MARTIN smGEL ·: head of the class of 1950 in : the presidential elections held Reelected After a week of campaigning in Memorial Chapel, can- jn Memorial Chapel W ednes- d<-ay noon. DeBello led a field didates for Student Council representatives are sitting back . for a breather before .making t}J.e final effort early next week. Tuesday and Wednesday, April 26 and 27, the mem- · of four candidates; including • hers of the student body will .go to Silliman Hall and cast their votes fOl' five men from their respective classes. The above picttll'ed shapely cuties, the Misses ( ?) Byron Tietjen, left, and Peter Kelly,· centel',, are shown l'eceivfug the \old glad ceye\ fl'om Jack Itm•ie durin~t.recent election campaigil- ilig in l}:lemorial Chapel. DivisiQn If. Changes Schedule Procedure John Weiss, Ralph Reed, and John Bowers. DeBello, a mem- ber of Alpha Delta Phi, was · · president of his junior class.· He is also a member of the. · Student Council and its par-: liamentarian, a member of the Interfraternity Council, and . chairman of the Junior Prom. GEORGE HENDON was elected president of the class of 1951, de- feating Cacyle Sherwin by the nar- . row margin of one vote. Hendon has been on the Student Ceuncil for two years, and ·was recently elected station manager of WRUC. He is a member of -:Sigma Chi. JOSEPH FRICK was elected to John DeBello head the class of 1952. He was a member of the council\ and the c . freshman football team. Gerald o·a.eh Kerr O'Lot1ghlin was the second can- didate. Campaign Intensified The Rathskeller Committee has announced an intensive campaign next week to collect $1200 which is needed for the completion of the rathskeller. The cal)lpaign is necessitated by the failure of a number of students to follow through on their pledges, given since the start of the drive on March 4. At that time, the committee set $3,000 as the goal; to date $1,800 actual cash has been received. Ove:t; 350 students on c;ampus have registered bewilder-. The chapel attendance and con- A· t 'U' Dl.·Dfler merlt in the past week when confronted with the long awaited sequently the vote 'vas meager . THE CAMPAIGN will feature · t t• f th · 1 t d' d' • • Wednesday. The seniors had the publishing the list of groups and In egra mg .program 0 .. e SOCia S U IeS IVISIOn. largest number of men voting with With Andy Kerr, noted football and neutral students who have In accordance with the general 219 or 47.7 percent. 'The juniors coach for the last 25 years, as contributed to date, a door-to--door education program legislated b:r 'for next year. ~Ol!- won't be able turned in 157 votes or 44.7 percent feature speaker,· the 14th Annual campaign, collection booths in Hale the Faculty Council in 1946, the to dump your problems, unanalyzed of those eligible. One vote, 0.28 per- Block \U\ Dinner on April 30 at House, th.e Concordiensls office and integrating course requirement into his lap.\ An advis$)r com- cent of those eligible, determined 6:30 in Hale House gives promise the Student Activities Office, a goes into effect ne¥t September.' :mented one word on the task 'Of the juniot· class election. The fresh- of being one of the outstanding graph of the week's progress to All seven term seniors must in- helpin,g choose- an integrating men cast 100 votes, 36.1 percent of ·events on the c\ollege sport calen- be posted on the Old· Gym bulletin elude as one of their major courses course: \Glory!\ their total number. dar this year. The dinner is open board and a day-by-day feature one of seventeen special courses to all alumni and students and over the WRUC campus news pro- in order to tie together the work E;gh teen se· n· z·o..,..s· Elec.te' 'd others who wish to attend. gram at 6:55 p.m. A free \get-ac- done in the major program ana/or II. I 1 KERR HAS ALWAYS cherished quainted\ beer party will be held \show the relation of the ·major the honor of. being the East team's at Saturday night of the prom for The general political air has been stiff and formal with only a few wiseacres livening up the pro- gram, compared to last year's shenanigans. Most colorful cam- paigning was done in behalf of James LaForest '51, by the in- imitable Jack Imrie. The candidates are all making promises, some of them rather vague In substance, others too strong. Many of t)le candidates seem to have it in for the faculty, as many proposals were put forth for evaluation of the Union pro- fessors by the students. There were many demands for roll call votes on all important issues in the Student Council and th-e pub- lication of tl!e council minutes In the Concordiensis. The only organized party this year is the Nobie, ·or No-Bull, party which has submitted a complete slate of candidates for all three classes. This year there has been an at- tempt· on the part of the candi- dates to have some sort of plat- form tl:J.ey would support If elected, from glorification of man's best friend, to Increased support of the ;Rathskeller, to more representa- tive student government. RPI Joust Passed, Up program to other branches of s e co-coach in the East-West Shrine those wishin'g to pass through the learning.\ \'o fiono¥!ary ocz•etze· D game on New Year's Day in San rathskeller. The instituters of the new sys~ 1 ·~ · .J..JJ · . I ·, . · · . . · C Francisc(l and the \Canny Scot\ Work on the brick wall has been The students of Rensselaer Poly- tern d·O not pretend that the same will devote much time speaking of half completed, according to technic Institute have challenged a old .courses under new titles will. Eighteen seniors have been • the classic all-star game. He will Thomas C. Elliot, rathskeller chair~ student leader of Union Colll,lg.e to satisfy the needs of all the majors: elected to the national honorary ALSO ELECTED to Sigma Xi bring with l;lim a color film of the man, due to the efforts of volun- meet w.ith their newly elected stu- in division II, but it is expected fraternities of Phi Beta Kappa and were John H. Auer, ,David F. 1945 contest showing not only the teers and the Pb,i Sigma Delta dent marshal}, in a joust this Sat- that at least ohe course will be Sigma XI, it has been announcec;l ·Burdett, Martin Co-hen, Michael game but. the pre-game pageantry pledges who are working at the urday night. The occasion for the found adequate. 'rt is the first step ·by Dr. Frederick T. Bro):lner, Setne, Robert C . .Sprong, Beno which has always made the East- ratliskeller during \Hell Week.\ tournament is a parade and cele- in Instituting definite curricular chapter secretary of Phi Beta Sternlicht, and Thomas Stratton. West encounter a ·colorful show. Next week, the committee hopes bration following R.P.I.'s student changes to comply with student Kappa, .and Pr. A. Theodore Goble, Dr. Frederick c. Nachod, re- That game was won by the West to begin work on the wooden par- elections. demands. \In order to get the pro- secretary of the campus brancll of search chemist with the Sterling- squad, 13-7. tltion and the bar. THE CONTESTANTS are to Ill •· t t· th\ k s·g x· K ACTUAL COS joust using tricyc)es as their horses, gram ro ng, we ve go . o . m a t rna 1. Winthrop Research Institute, Rens- err is n9w coaching at Lebanon · TS to date have · bit, pick a course of actlon; find· WILL I AM G R.A T TAN was selaer, was ~elected to full mem- . Valley College in Pennsylvania been: bricks, · $110; beer cooler, and long poles tipped with boxing out what's wrong,\ said one Bailey· elected to both .organizaUon!j. bership in Sigma Xi. Two in- after having been the dean of Col- $511; cement, $28.50; refrigerator, fove as spears. There is no prize Hall instructor. The perennial Other new Phi Bates are Alan G. structors in physics. at Union, gate football for many years. Andy $700; fan, $137.50. Many Items such · or the winner, but it was felt by bl b · c b those making the Invitation that pro em of an increased udget Gowan, George E. Etue, Jr., and James Nicol and Jerome M. Rehr, .left olgate because of his advanc- as lum er have not b.·een purchase.d . the contest would reflect the honor also enters the picture, Douglas C. Hebb. were elected, to associate member- lng years, but accepted the small yet. It is expected the coolers Will A paragraph prominently placed Included among. those electeq to ship. coll'ege position to remain In .foot- be delivered in 3 to 4 weeks. of tl!e winning school. I · b t d 1 · · James Penuick, as president of on c rculars d1stri u e to a I men Slgnia Xi were six men who plan -~~, 0 ..--- balL He !earned his football under More Information on the rath- h · · i d t t t h • • · t e Student Council, was originally maJOnng n !vision II s ated; to take further training.. David an.o her grea · coac , 'Pop' Warner, s.keller can be obtained in the Old 1 _ nvlted. He could !lOt go, and it •'This y,ear you are going to have Blumenstock will enter Cornell' H 11 w· k who made the single and double G•·m basement after l.·a· 0 p.m. any e ' ee 1 h ff . ' was agreed that the man selected to do some work \n preparation Medical School; Victor F. Mattson . . . ·· . . wngs t e most powerful 0 ensi:ve day. to the presidency df the senior class for the session where your adviser. has been accepted for a four year weapons in football. Kerr ex- --'--OI--- makes out your course schedule course at the Institute of PapEr pounded his teacher's theories at this Wednesday should represent N Cl W h . d J ff C 11 c t PI d Union. Unfortunately, John De- Chemish·y; Leighton :!'!. Peebles, .· ears·· . : 6· , se . a~ .lpgtop an e erson o ege oncer -anne. . d th t c 1 t Bello, who was elected president of BEL . p PI . Jr., will take graduate work at an en a o ga e. the class of 1950, Will be unable to . ' an Massachusetts Institute of Tech- J3y JEROME KLEIN IN ADDITION to Kerr, Bob The Union College Dance Band,· b \ -.::r 11 W k t . . hology· ·, George Wheeler. will , go Tni·s week marked· .the culmina- Bender, outstanding sportscaster I d b A go ecause o, .,.e ee du ies. to Yale Universit~ as art assistant for station WGY will be on the s~nt ya · :~~:!rt··ot~:~~o, ;;!~I!r;;; 0 T E d in Physics,· ar.d Albert Wit_tenberg tion of the trial period for one · db h · n Bill Mem · 1 Ch I w d d ·selecti. · M d . ·o .. X· ·p .. ·a. n· .. · hundred and forty,.eight pledges in progzam prepare y c azrma. . ona . ape e nes ay eve- . ons . a e will go tO> Johns Hopkins. Robert O'Neal. Professor Fred Bronner ning, May 11, at 8:30 p.m. The Carpenter also plans to do grad- Union's eighteen fraternities. In-· will be the toastmaster for the af- program, termed by Agnello as The Phllomatheans have selected The ~ELP program, which is uate work. Two men elected, to .itlation ceremonies on Saturday fair. Harold Wittner. Union di- \v.olume two\ of Pastel Shades will Ronald Jennett to represent Union ending its first year at Union Col- Si,.,ma Xi will go directly into in- and Sunday \viii terminate Hell rector of athletics will present life· feature vocals by Miss Helen Lynn in the Hearst-Alexander Ham!lton lege, will be substantially expanded dustry. These are Leon a r d Week which began on Monday time passes to the graduating cap- and numbers by a bass, guitar, and S,peech Tournament of 0rators in dUring t.he coming academic yea,r, · Humphrey, who will enter the Gen- morning. tains and managers as part of the plano trio.. No adinlss.lon fee will Albany, May 3. L . THE ACTIV. ES have been given b h Th f ·11 · i t t- h d the HELP .committee has an- eral Electric Phy;~ics aboratories ceremony. e c· arged. e o ow ng eams are rna c e nounced. To the seven fraternities {i.nd Philip M. B!trrett, who has free reign to do what they wish In the Phllomatheans Intramural now sponsoring foreign f!tudents received several offers. with the members of the incoming Debate which begins next week. will be added Delta Phi, Psi Up- group. As a result, pledges carry- 71/T la ..... kY\\ on fll'L h .ll Richard Genther, John DeBello vs. silon, and Sigma Ph1 fraternities; .- · ing sundry articles including lJ'..I!a I , .I. ltOTn, l· . john Edmondson, W1lliam Me- the independent ·veterans group .AU. tO Club Set. Up·. paddles, fraternity emblems, and Kinney; Clarence Giles, William head.ed by William :0. Reeder; and . even large wooderi. lc.,gs, have been_ \Advance ticket sales for Sap Kemp, Bing Crosby, :Benny Good- MiltOn vs. Edward Layden; Ken- the 'independent non-veterans group A Campus Auto Club has been <l•r- a familiar sight on campus. The Souci, May 6, have been phenom- man, Charlie Spivalt, and the late neth Whalen; Edward Patnode, led ·b· y sa~· H. Ne~comer.. ganized at Un.fon College to com-: pledges will \long remember the Glen Mlller. Beri!Jard O'Connell vs. Jack Scordo, u• W' i I'i t . th d f i ht t t ina!,\ stated John DeBello, Junior THE INDEPENDENT veterans bat the increase n ga.so ne axes· trips In . e ead o n g · o ou - In an effort to produce something Emerson Markham: Louis Gveco, group has collected $ 413 . 15 iil con• and the high cost of repairs. The. lying parts of the city. Pledges Prom chairman. \It really looks m~~ically different, ThornWU has Dean. Sodaro vs. John Vesty, Hart- tri'i:mtions, le!).ving a required club is part of a national .organiza- have been see:11 trudging the roads like a great weekend, and the only ubhzed his classical background ley Vesty. The affirmative side Is $ 32 5. 85 yet to be received. It is ex- tion which has branches at 170 from Troy and Saratoga, and also· persons disappointed will be the for a neosymphonic effort. He has. given first in each case. pected that- .this balance will be colleges and universities through- returning from the neighboring· couples that didn't get a chalice to studied at the Cincinnati Conserva- o--- collected before May 20 . New- out the country. cemetery bearing statistical data' dance to Claude Thornhill.'' Several tory, the Curtis Institute, with Ar- s t · d D comer's group has alll() collected Members of the organizati{)on pay :from tb,e toJp.bs of the early transfer sti.tderifs from Mohawk tie Shaw, and the New Orleans jazz a Uf ay ance over half o:f its def:IJ,red amount. $2 for a year's membership. Their Dutchmen. · • • College have confirmed the, adver- school. · The Union College Christian As- Alpha Phi Omega, service frater• membership cars entitle them fo Pr.cofessors, though agre~ing not ·tised solgan that Thornhil1 is de~ T_HORNHILL has attained the sociation Will hold another in nity on campus, has volunteered to dlscount.s at William Plath's Auto to give hour exams, quizzes or finitely danceable. He played at. epithet of somewhat of a character Its series ·of spring dances on join Newcomer in contacting men Service Station on Union StL·eet. papers for this wee~. have been· Mohawk last spring. among men. He has frequently Saturday evening, April 28, at wh:o have expressed interest in the The discounts include 10% off on. forced to contend with bleary-eyed THE THORNHILL outfit in 1948 boasted of drinking .as ma,ny .as 8:30 p.m. ln S1ll!man Hall. Girls \independents' .program. the retail price of automobile· students dozing off during recita- won the Look magazine award as. twenty cups of coffee in an .evenino- from the Albany School ·Of Nurii- The . Institute of International parts, and two cents a: gallon off tion periods because of all\night the band of the year, They pride but pranced over his keyboard high ing and from area sororities Education, whic'h contacts the for- on gasoJine. · session!!. A few of the fraternities ·themselves: on full orchestrations, as a kite when playing at a Skid-· and girl's clubs w!l1 be available elgrt students, has forwarded briefs The club was organized at Union have directed the .toil of the arranged by the boss, and try to mpre engagement a few years ago. for students without dates. Admls- on interested candidates •to the by Leon Weisburgh after he pledges into more conetrtu::tive en-· avoid· the star system ap much ~ He Is credited with an astounding slon will be free and free refresh- HlllLP Committee. The screening learned. of __ the success of a; similar ··t t. erp.rises~ T. he Rathske. ller, in pa. r- · possible. Thornhill insists that hels memory, but appeared f.or a Ray ments will be serVed, but a ~mall procedure by the co~mlttee is. par• group. at Stanford University. The ticular, has been aided by pledge no soloist either, but just adds trim NC>ble engagement, one night, sans donation wlll be asked of those tially completed, and· th~ !lnal de- group began ·operations at. :Onion a bricklayers, carpenters, and paint- where It seems to be needed. As trousers. Thornh!ll has been mar- attending to defray the cost of the clslorui will soon be made. week before· the spring-recess. ~re. · an arranger, h.e has served Hill· rled foi• several year~J. refreshmente. . . - ... _

'l· ;..,, ' ' FRIDAY, APRIL 22. 1949 2 \ For Your Information On Spri:ng Fevet· The Gospel SATURDAY, APRIL 23. Glee Club concert, Mont- I th 1 t f d th t s the put·p· o~e nf temp· orarily quelling considered with fond affection ))y clair, New Jersev. n e , as ·ew ays e a mo - \' v · ' ph ere a\ t Union College has smelled :the qulclrened pulse and the other this writer. I have o·ften heard Meeting of Bo!i.l'd of .Governors of Union Uni- ' · · verslty, President's Office, 10 a.m,, of Spring. The trees are beginning symptoms usually associated with ·his music, n:ainly recorded, with to Show thel .l' '·oun·g bl~soms g~een that' moat .un·l·versal of aU·ailments, such ·artists as Benny Goodman and arnurnr . Member Associated Col- . leglate Pt·ess and rllst rl· butor of the Collegiate Digest. Nntionb.l Ad ver- . tising Representative: Na- tional Ad\tettb:;lng St'l·vin.•. Inc., College l'ublioho.·n• Hepresentative. 420 .Ma•li- ~on Ave., N. Y. C Pub- Hshed every F'ritlay of the ~chou1 year I~rlitor!al Office, Washbun• Hall. Union College, Pub- , aca.t!on Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. l~ntered in the Schenec- tady l'ost Offiee as Sec- \\'1 Class :llall Maller. suu-crlption JOe a copy, $3 ~·ear : deli ve1·ed any- where in the United State:.;. Varsity track, Uni·c•n vs. Trinity, at Schenectady, · · J v~ ' ,. ~ · w lth the youth of wa:i:m days. A.nd · Spring ·Fever. But aside from the ·Coleman Haw.kins. In past yea:ra, 2 p.m. the students tramping to class have :soothing qualities that I find pre~ Wilson's '.'tinkling piano\ has often B'reshman lacrosse, Union vs. Middlebury, at been seen .fn sweaters, light jackets !Sent in jazz, one can also find, if saved me from the destructive at- Schenectady, 2 p.m. and even a few shirt sleeves. The interested, a physical release for tacks of an embittered April. I'm Varsity baseball, Union vs. Rochester, at Roches- . weather Is definitely an early April. the exc·essl·ve energy that is stored ·certain that his talents, which I ter, 2:30 p.m. .f.or S<!henectady. But April, even , up during the lethavgic months· rate among the fii.st five in jazz Varsity laet·osse, Union vs. HobaTt, at Schenec- ·in norma:! times,. ;Js a peculiar that precede the onslaught of pre-'.pianists today, will certainly have 2:30 p.m. ·month. As T. S. Eliot has said, summer activity. :tremendous\ appeal f0r any Pr0m SUNDAY, APRIL 24. Sunday service, Memorial April is the cruellest month of the Jazz is of special interest to Am- gathering. Chapel, 11 a.m. Preacher, Dr. Charles W. year. The cruelty of the fourth-: ericans and particularly to college, Wilson's mu:slc is most notable Gilkey, dean emeritus of chapel, Univer- mc·nth is due to the stilTing of un· students, especially during the for his simplicity of ·style, clean sity of Chicago. known p&ssions, dlff.\cult to control. month of April. Because it Is in notes and Sl!btle feeling or i:p.ter- SE'IilOH BO.\Itll L\~ll·:S :\lUI:!:.\ Y .. . . .. Eo.htur UE.UltliE T. lllth'K .Edttur l·:rnerin..l:o~ HEH In:HT !'.\X 1·: .\~:--oc.·iutt· Editnl JA:\lES l:TTI:'\t;LH ... SlJ•lrt~ Editnt S.\~ll'l•:L }tiJ~I'UI: .F'eatUil· Editnl' lt\ 1I:EI!T ~.\\'I.\:-; l'htotu ,Edit·•t \\'1!.1.1.\ \1 Til.\ \'1·:1: .\ tin~ t'u·· nhunn ~Iauagl'l l.l·:U='= \\'l·~lSBL'·I~(i!f .. \<ling- B11:-11 t'\'=\ :\laua~·' Baseball. Union College vs. Schenectady Blue . And so one finds a means of' tr.ans- the rr onth of April that one anti-:. pretation. His technique and in,ter- Jays, McNearney Stadium, 3 p.m. Tickets fer.ring such passions in various cipates the finaJ days of so-cial ac-' pretive skill' is admixed with a $1.20. . ways. · It is fortunate, indeed, for tivities still left on the school fine selection of songs that always MONDAY, APRIL 25. Daily Assembly, Memorial many men :on campus who belong. calendar. Where does jazz come have the quality ·of creating nos- Chapel, noon. June Prom Cc•mmittee. to f·raternities that they have the in? It sets the mood for the talgia on the part of tile listener. Jl':\'IOit 1!0.\ltll Jawe:-. Br~:--u11, ,J.\Illt\~ t;.ull. l•o11 :\1. l.J.e~Jll. \\'ultgcttq.; Hllll•tl HEI'OHTEHS .Ja\ (',•hl 1 , \\'a~Tlt-· fl:l\i .... .lPl'ortlt> tiHrtlh'r. l)nll:tl•l tillL·I·tin. Ir\'lug- lfaudlt·r, Jt·ri•IIlt' Kl~·tu, Hi•,llat d Hobert~. l Jonahl ~vh \\ artz. .:\lartin ~legt.:l. l· I a1d\. Stt.:IIt, Itt•gt·t ~h.•\'t.·Jt::-, \\'illard T:tylor Glee Club rehearsal, Memorial Chapel, 4':30 p.m.· ability to exercise their energies in Dances and parties and Proms that Jazz music has been noted for the Movie, \Ma·n's Hope,\ Old Chapel, 4:30 and 7:30 the many accepted patterns of be- still lie ahead, and singularly the !l\any sentimental attachments such p.m. · havio·r allotted for in the Hell- Week Junior Prom, which a;t Union will . as particular events that are re- Band rehearsal, Gymnasium trophy room, 7 p.m. rituals. Othei·S have to search other be held May 6th. membered because of a song. It is Philomathean Society, English reading n~om, less strenuous outlets .for their This year the Prom Committee quit-e easy to deride a person's Bailey Hacll, 7:30 p.m. frustrated desires. seem to be acutely aware of the sentimeptality. A person of great l'IIOTO ST.\FF HulH It ·lh· Itt Jll:tltll, E\.lll Hwlt:l!d .... Holwrt H Sdnvar \I, t I••Hr!-:t .. :\\ \\'undi utf. lll.S!:\ESS SI:AFF Fr,•dt·!Jt·l;, 1 ,,.,·au. t;Lu·tt11l 1 ;1 u ... ky, Lt•1• Kui•t>t :-t tlft.;d. Stu~. rt l.l .\\t-,Jt.rttl, h.t I till lh .:-\ ~~.t. :d• 11, .J r Alpha Phi Ome~a. Bailey Hall 202, 8 p.m. . During the yery uncomfortable effect of the influence Of April. strength and vitality can be im- 'l'liEISUAY, APRIL 26. Daily Assembly, Memorial dys of a nerve-tugging April 1 They .seem to have rea.Jize1:1 t:hat mune to the effects of sentiment, Chapel, noon. Speaker, Frederic A. Wyatt, ·find great peace- and serenity in music ahd pl'enty of it will in some .but at times I'm glad I'm not that \The Portraits in Memorial Chapel.\ · rrusic, but it is not the music of. measure not only enhance the· strong. It's nice to feel sorry for Mov1e, \Man's Hope.\ Old Chapel, 4:30 and 7:30 the concert h!iJ:II that holds my at-. Prom, but that it can also assuage . .' one's self and to ,be able to spend p.m. · tention. Not that classicaJ. m1,.1sic our most impetuous Impulses. In- an evening in surroundings that !'Iilli 1..\TIO:'\ STAFI' Flying Club, CE 304, ·7:15 p.m. lacks the power ·to incite and satis- eluded in the program of music for enhance such a feeli11g. The ef- Ueur~ 'Ptt,·at, Jt'I'Oit.t.• t:.ttlnt r, H•olw1t r,, ''.ltll(•\ Hit·ltard Phtltpp. 1 ;t••l! gt• J:Pdington, Alfred :--tJe;.;d, HolH:-·rt :-ltraud, \\'il!tanl \\'izwht:-.tci, l!whard You ttl.; \\ OI.Fl;,\:-, (; ltlJ . .\IEH. I\ut• E<litur Nefman Club, CE 106, 8 p.m. . fy the .emotions, quite the contrat·y.' this year's Junior Prom is Teddy feet is thOroughly .purging, and Qf WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27. Placement interviews, But\ somehow, come April, I find. Wilson an·d his'trio. , course it also pushes the Aprils Elcintilla Magneo Division of Bendix, Wells' myself more intensely interested fn. Teddy Wilson is a pianist, a pz;.o- further and fmther into the back- Rathskeller Drive Lags The time has come to get tough on the Rathskeller drive. It seems that the people who showed the most interest in the plans and who will benefit most from the Rath- skeller when it is built have contributed the least. We refer to the neutml group. We want to warn the student body that the Rathskeller drive could fail if more people don't get their money in. We are convinced of the need for the rathskeller and are alarmed at the situation now existing with the committee sweating to get the construc- tion done and the rest of the students bog- ging down on their contributions. We hace decided to donate a portion of our office next week to the Rathskeller Committee so that every man who \vants to contribute will find a place to do so. · We urge you veterans to plan on giving some money out of ~·our next check to the drive if you have not yet contributed. We ask you to sign a pledge card at one of the sta- tions next week and to follow through with the money the first of the month. And you neutrals, whether vets or not, do not fail the committee through apathy or careless- ness. You must show at least as great an interest as the fraternity groups who will not benefit from the rathskeller as much as you. Can They Deliver? There are a number of top-notch men running for Student Council next week and there me a number of men who should not be allowed to ease into office just because they are well-known around campus. We feel it is important for the student body to vote in this election because we are going through the latter stages of transition from wm·time to peacetime and decisions made by the Council during the next year will have a far-reaching- effect in the normal years to come. We r~fuse to support any particular candidate because we want to feel free to flaunt promises of all elected before them during the year if they don't follow through. It is too bad that such a small numb'er turned out for the presidential elections and while we think there were several causes for it, the main one was once again apathy on the part of the student body. The college has gone to the trouble to get voting ma- chines for the elections next Tuesday and Wednesday and the candidates have shown their wares in chapel. It is now up to the student body to show interest in weeding out the incompetent men. House. . · various jazz forms; and Its serves duct of the Chicago Jazz, who is ground. Glee Club rehearsal, 'Memorial Chapel, 4:30 p.m. --------~--------~--------~----'---~--­ Glee Club advisory committee, English reading room, Bailey Hall, 7:30 p.m. Movie, \Atomic Physics,\ Old Chapel, 4:30 p.m.,. and Memorial Chapel, 7:30 p.m. AlEE ! Schenectady branch), EE 22, 8 p~l,n. Lincoln Memorial Lecture, Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Speaker, Dr. Louis A. Warren, ·O•f the National Lincoln Foundation. No charge. THURSDAY, APRIL 28. Daily Assembly, Memorial Chapel, noon. Speaker, Professor Clare Graves, \The Psychodynamics of the <;:har- acter Disorder-Prejudice.\~ \' Movie, \Atomic Physic!;,,\ Old Chapel, 4:30 p.m., ar..d Memorial Chapel, 7:30 p.m. Fraternity night. FRIDAY, APRIL 29. Daily Assembly, Memorial Chapel. noon. Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh. Varsity baseball, Union vs. Stevens, at. Schenec- tady, 2:30 p.m. Varsity golf, Union vs. Hamilton, at Schenec- tady, 2:30 p.m. Varsity tennis, Union vs. Hamilton, at Schenec- tady, 2:30 p.m. Glee Club rehearsal, Memorial Chapel, 4:30 p.m. International Relations Club, English reading room, Bailey HaU, 7:30 p.m. Glee Club Concert It Was Rumored Gather around all you chillin,'s and listen to Uncle Robert, he's got a story this week which has been a long time coming. Seems that after three years, and this for some reason is. no longer a rumor, some one has decided to· do something about that group of small buildings off Nott Street known as the veterans housing project or simply Dutchman's Village. The Schenectady Chamber of Commerce, In its an·nual \Clean Up-Paint Up-Fix Up\ wee'k, in con- junction with McCall's Magazine will participate in what McCall's calls their \Yardville\ scheme. Sche- nectady was chosen as one of twenty representa- tive cities in which to demonstrate what a \little mc•ney and a lot of cooperation can do in a short time.'' According to present plans, on Saturday, May 7, \Y.ardville Day\ Dutchman's Village will re~eive a thorO'Ugh clean-up and exterior face lifting. Union College will paint the thirty-six housing units with wooden siding as well as donate funds for the project. Arbors and picket .fences built by the Carpenters Local 146, AFL, painted by members of By Robert Navias cooperation Qf Village'ts has been asked in case the posthole .digger hits shale. Women's groups and garden clui:ls frcom Schenectady will assist in plant- ing shrubs, flowers, and vines. It was pointed .out by a representative ·Of the Schenectady Chamber of Commerce, that the Village was chosen by the Ch<~omber clean-up campaign com• mittee because of its conspicuous p~sition off one of the most.l;leavily traveled streets in the city. The project is intended to shc•w by example what a neighborhood can do to beautify itself. The fenced yards are a safety feature for the children of vet- erans living in the viUage, since good playground space is not otherwise available. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, Union College administraticn, and residents of Dutchman's Village met in the Village on We.(ines- day evening to discuss the project, and the\ plan will be officially started at a luncheon at the Hotel Van Curler on Friday, May 6, at which two hundred civic leaders, along with representatives of McCall's Magazine, the Chamber of Commevce, the college, and the Village will be present. McCall's Magazine is sponsorin.g the luncheon as well as providing publicity and \Before and After\ pictures. ·Local 165, AFL, will be used to enclc•se and beautifY Yes, children, it will be a great day for the Vil- lagers, the residents of Fertile Valley may yet be able to point with pride to the 'long Jew buildings ' and honestly say, \I lived there once.\ The Glee Club will give its annual concert and the yards between the buildings. Lumber has been dance for the benefit of the Alumni Scholarship pUl'chased at cut rates from several city concerns. Fund of the Schenectady County Alumni Association, The city of Schenectady will supply o· posthole ·at the Mohawk Gclf Club, on Saturday, Apz:il 30, at digger to facilitate the erection of fences, and the 8:30p.m. Tickets at $1.50 per pet·son may be pur- ---~-------------------------------~---------,.-- chased at Wells House or Joseph's Clothing Store in · Schenectady. Arrangements may be made for dir.ner Man's B· est Frt··end at the club prior to the conci!rt. Letters Office of the Superintendent United States Military Academy West Point, New York 14 April, 1949 Dr. Carter Davidsc•n President. Union College Schenectady, New York Dear Doctor Davidson: I would be very remiss if I did not express to you my deep appreciation for the reception you afforded our lacrosse team last Saturday. The cadets, coaches and o·fficers who· a:c- companied our team will long be talking of their trip to Union College. It is unfortunate that so many limitations on the cadets' time prevent them from visiting your campus frequently. However, we hope tbat the c•ccasion will not be too far distant when we may return again. Sincerely yours, To the Baseball Fans BRYANT E. MOORE Major General, USA Superintendent of Schenectady and Vicinity Dear Friends: It is a matter of common note sively ubiquitous, they are general- that dogs are attracted to those in- ly as well-behaved as their human stitutions which attract male. hu- counterparts, though they are less mans with a. common purpose. inclined to dissimulate or otherwise Football gaUJes, baseball games, inhibit themselves. When displeased army camps, and groups of small by any lecturer, they are apt to fry are usually attended by avail- \want out\ (to use an old southern 'able canines. Colleges are no ex- expression). Should egress ·be ception. barred them, they become insistant At Cornell some time ago, Father in a restrained, gentlemanly, but Abner Day b1·ought about an off!- not-to-be-denied manner. cia! ruling that allowed dogs the On the .other hand, like some stu- run of the college. Some may doubt dents, they arrive late and rattle that it logically follows, but today the doors (or windows) until they Cornell is .said to have one of the are admitted, to curl up on the largest dog populations of any col- floor, eyes closed with one ear half~ lege in the country. cocked. It is this habit of fore- Here at Union, dogs o·f various . going the excellent advantages of descriptions voam about democrat!- their lack of a:bility to manipulate cally, not under official sanction, door catches <1.1.nd getting into rooms but by tacit consent. Unobstru- anyway, that causes some. people to GUERRA'S PHARMACY FERRO'S RESTAURANT ' Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 Schenectady Blue Jays vs. Union College- Sunday, April 24, 1949, 3 p.m., McNearney Stadium- will be another mTiestone in the histoi·y of Schene-c- tady. Fountain The Union College Memorial ,Field House Build- ing Fund, for which this game is being played., is a p recognized need. It will greatly benefit the college; rescriptiOn$ and that which benefits Union College benefits the 1115 BARREn STRl!ET By Samuel Roscoe. ANNOUNCEMENT * AI Volk, U~ion '48 has . ·opened a new cleaning es· tablishmen+. V 0 'L K C L E A N E R S 116 Nott Terrace 4R8605 (Next to Parentes) City of Schenectady. Sundries · dare: ;~o~l~J ~~ ~ ~~lr:~U \ffl ~e t~ ht~ e ac~~~t of s~::~e~~a~Yfi~~ ~,1i~~~~~~ :~:a t~~u!':e~~lb~~~~ ~~1i::C!:z~~i::+::!t.~!+::!~'XC•~'§f::+loc!~::~<r~f{+::•lli~!~::!*1K+::!~[:i::+z£{itC!~i~!~!~t~!::+::!:t~:i~::!:&1i::CW~, foi·m is a fine thing but that it means College to help this worthy pro•ject: and at the same ~~ s p E e I A L f 0 r s T u D E N T s ~ nothing if the candidates just make up a list time see what should prove to be an interesting ~ ~~~ A Vital Election f h ball game. bOO Union St. Cor. Barrett St. ~ * o t e current campus gripes and volunteer Dick carter is down at Seaford, Delaware, ~ t~ to eradicate them without knowing what they getting together another Can-Am winner; and Art ~~ ~ are talking about. We refer specifically to Lawrence is working feverishly-without benefit of I'~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~ ~ THIS WEEK ONLY ·~~ the concern of several candidntes over the a field house or southern spring training-to turn 1 1 .. ~ ~ fate (}f the Freshmen Record. If the students ~~t h~gl~.quad that will make the Blue .Jays really GOOD SHOES FOR ·~ With every $1.35 order, we will ~lean one pair I who have improvement of the Record on their. See yo·u at McNearney Stadium-April 24th. STUDENTS and FACULTY ~ of trousers, sweater, jacket, or ~hirt free of charge. I platform had bothered to inquire they would Sincerely, .¥<_: __ ~.~ ~ have found out that the Concordiensis is ALBERT E. HOUGHTON, I P utting out the Record next year. President, Canadian-American Baseball League • • We think it would be wise for candidates~----------~---- ~ hoping for r~forms to find out the procedures more specific about how they would improve • ··,:·~··· V 0 L K C L E A N E R S ~'·'~, required in obtaining them, and talk with such items as faculty-Otudent relations. It . ~- ~~ people in a position to do something about is not enough to evoke an interest in reforms. ~ .. ~. 1. 16 NOTT TERRACE Phone 4·8605 ~ them be~ore spouting off, F~r example, any A means to the end would enhance the voting Patton & Hall \\\- ~ changes m the staff of the FI~ShJ?en Record power of the candida-tes and also would be x-RAY FITTING . ~.~.· P~ck. up \.nd Delivery 48Rhour Ser~iceJ~ must come through the PublicatiOns Board. enlightening us STATE ST.-Since 1898 ,..,_ . We also feel that the candidates should be · Sx4'~...£~_.~to~U:¥.81W.-::t<:;r,A-r.>~~-r•::;~:iw_.;w.:+::f.m£~ .. FRII E 1 ·C• ace, .var! 183 ancl \\'lfu: foot ga.rr briU self wor H mer rett in '46. ·Cl'OI so the an tea: his ties are den cla: Ka· teri of pro and mis c \yea as an~ t:he 1no: Bal sclh yea yea c SeJ na1 the mil tur an• pu: A.~ j de Sh( wo liaJ pla OUI A~ an a.c ra1 Se1 ()])( th• COl fl'l in Dt col se. re• da tl'l th th

:i' •Y :d ;h ld '8, lll .t- m I zz ve m ~r­ ~r- a ys >S- er. he ch re- is n:'s lat m- nt, 1at Cor nd 1at ef- of ~ils ck- tas the md nt- the age >m~ one rhe t a ,ced v-et- llnd rce, of Jes- •lan otel Ired ~n·s ege, ~ine ling ViJ- be lngs co e.- logs sion ac- the per- Ac- the \ ,tur-e best :ner- lent, best lllar- lcate rant day. ex- live, has es- s lOS .. FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1949 I) 3 Ba~seba'U Nine Lifts Lid TomOrrow At Rochester; TraCkmen F·ace Trinity College In Home Meeting Ketzmen Prime To Chalk Up Second Undefeated Year . Last season ~Dutch,man-:BI:ueJa·yBenefit SCOREBOARD: by --nick Roberts--·-.- Coach Bill Ketz's Union College track squad will attempt to keep a, record of twelve consecutive vic- Co-capt. P .. il Bt•ady, defensive, t01des in tr.ack and cross country· ace, is entering ·his third year of varsity C.OlllJietition. Phil, a G'i\ unblemished when they ·O•pen 1S3 lb. senior hails from Buffalo, against Trinity College tomorrow at 2:00. P.M. on Ale:l!iander Field. and 'is a graduate ·of Nichols School Two on Injured Li!;;t \\'lhere 'he ''on letters .jn hockey, The fiying Dutchmen will be at football, and track( In the two ·full strength for their opener with· ga.mes this season, PhH has ·Playetl the exception of Fred ·Oyer:, vet- brilliant ball, and 'has sho•wed llim- self to be a good leadet• and hard · eran high jumper, w-ho will be un- able to perform for. the first sev- worker. eral meets of the season. Mertpon He entered' Union in 1945 as a Wellir.gton has a slight foot sprain member of the V-5 program. Phil which should not handicap him to' returned to the Dutchmen's campus any great extent. · ln the spring of Union will be repres·ented by '46. Along with la- almost its complete team of last ·crosse, he was al- year which breezed through fi.ve so a member of dual meets unclefeated. One Of the ·the Union hockey victories was 9() '113 - 34 2/3 over a n d foot b a 11 ·'Trinity. On the basi's of early sea- teams. Some of son practice Union will have a .his many <tCtivi- · : well-balanced and p-cwerful squad. ties on campus . Led by Captain Arlington Per- ·are.: vice-presi- · soneous, Newt Culver, Bob Me- dent of the senior Queen and Ken Whalen, all of class, president qf · whom scored over 50 points Kappa Alpha fra- apiece last season, the expecta- ternity, chajrman tions for another undefeated sea- of the 'i9 junior ' son are high. Sophomores Eddie prom, Delphic Society, Hale Club, LaMay, Hal Burnham, S:nd trans- and a member of the student ad- fers Abe Lakshin and Chuck missions board. Downing are counted upon to be * * • · of material assistance in fashion- Coach Vic' Starzenski .rates 24 ing victories. \years ol!d, 6', i:85 lb., Bill Pahl. Trinity as a ·strong, stea>dy defenseman Trinity will bring to Schenec- Photo by Heineman Pictured above are Billy Eade, left, catcher, and Captain Truman Rice, shol'tstop, who will be· playing their last season for the Lawrencemen who open tomorrow at ~ochester. Stick men- Hobart Cla~sh Saturday After Two Losses and one of the mainstays on tady a well-balanced a:nd star- t:be tell!ln. Bill, a native of Balti- · studded group of tracksters. They more, Maryland, gi·aduated from are led by John Noonan, who .Iast The hard-fighting Union Co!lege\Y-------- ---. ---- Balti!m~·re City C6llege (high year established a new Trinity Iacross? . squad . i;s determined to period, while Williams got 7 of its school) in 194-2 \\\'\here he played 3 discus record of 138' 6\ and break mto the wm column tomor- 11 goals in the second period. The years varsity lamosse, and two \Lucky'' Ransom, who as a Fresh- row afternoon when they face· t t h th bTt t years of varsity football. man ran the 120 yard high hurdles strong Hobart Co·llege on Library earn as a ~a~ as e a 1 1 Y 0 Fi ld at 2·30 . Th G t produce. Thts 1s evidenced by the Co-capt. Pahl entered Union in in 16:06 and the low hurdles _e · p.m. . e . arne fact that Union led Army 3-2 for Sept. '42. In 1943 he enlisted in the ar·coUn.'d a curve in 27 seconds. shc~men, although displayn;g ~x- the first 27 minutes of play. on navy;' --spending the better half of Other top\\ performers on the cephonal talent, dropped t;hetr first A ·1 16 t w·n· t th the next three and half years on a Trinity squad, which consists two contests to powerful Army _prl . a ~ mms own e same . . th p \fi H tl f S h N t (19-5) and Williams (11-7). USintul_oantlol·ned awgal_lllnl·amwsasat pthreeseenntd aosf mme sweeper tn · e ac1 c. e re- mos y o op. omores, are ew turned 'to Union in the fall of '47, Leo, who has run the quarter In Saterlee Back the Ji,rst period 3-0-a period in and since-then he has been a cam- 52:05, and Whitey Epps, who is Hobart beat the Garnet last year which the Garnet made the Eph- pus standout . . . president of expected to break the Trinity pole by 11-9, as' their star Captain Got- men look like a poorly coached A.S.C.E. and Chi Psi ft•aternity. vault record. of 12' 2%,''. don .Saterlee scored '9 of Hobart's ·prep school team. At this point * * Unio:n Entries goals. saterlee iS back with the Union was expected to win by J;en Assistant la.crosse coach, Hal Nan Union entries in tomo•rrow's meet .Statesmen this year, and will be goals. are as follows: 100 yard-Person- watched c'losely. Another standout de •CIIJl'T t'hlnks the laerosse te@lll 0 k eous, Wallington, Burnham; 22 w1'th the Gen,e_vt\ans is Don William- showed great improvement in stic l' work and tea.mt work In the Wil- yard - Personeous, Wal mgton, son, All-American defenseman. Confidence Necessary Hal Van de Car put his fingers on the possible area o·f infection last Monday afternoon when in an informal address to the team he said, \This team is as good as the 1937 which was only defeated by Dartmouth, 7-6, in two overtime · Thurston or Burnham. 440 yards- Both of Union's' two losses were Iiams gwme as coml(lared with their play in the ~my tilt. He pointed LaMay, Thurston, Keever. 880 marked by one complete period ·Of out that any team that can hol(l. yards-Culver, Belanger, Loomis, complete relapse by a Garnet team Al1m.y to 4 goals in tile fil'St half LaMay, Wisoff. Mile-Culver, Mac- which had been thought to be one a:n.d_Willirurns to a 4 goal margin in Counr, Belanger, Ketchum. 2 Mile of the stro-ngest and best coordln- 1 · tainl to -Garlock, Lakshin. High Hurdles ated ever to represent Union. Army a COOIIIP ete game 1s cet• y a p rate O!ltfit aniL shoul!l finish the -McQueen, Lawton. Low Hurdles got 11 of its 19 goals in the third (Continued on Page 4) season witih a better than .500 rec- -McQueen, Lawton. Shot Put- OJ!d>. Even tboug:ll. Hobart defuated Whalen, Dvorscak. Discus - the Ga.rnet last season 11-8, and Whalen, Dvorscak, Wilsey, Hagar. considering that the Statesman Javelin-Hager, Wilsey, Fischel, fl'es1IIman teaan was one of 1Jbe best Forte. High Jump-Williamson, • tb t Ha i ks th Down;ing. Pole Vault - Milford, m · e .eoun ry, · 1 .p c · e Simmons. Broad Jump-Pers.on- DutclJiniien to end up in the win column 'llhis Saturday. eous, Hagar, Williamso~. F()rte. • * • Ken Whalen, star center on .last season's football team and shot-put record holder, was asked the other day by a fr~hman if he ran on the track team. When Ken replied no, the braintruster said, \Oh you're the managev.\ SERVING UNION'S MEN ,OR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Near FERRY tAILS For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Pla.th 60 I llniort Street AUTO SERVICE Guaranteed - Watch, Clock and Jewelry Repairing Quick Service! T.TUTTLE 139 STATE ST. TUX FOR SANS SOUCI AT ·ottaviano•s Sartorial Bar ': 114 JAY ST. OPP. CITY HALL .• I • I • I I I • I I 0 • I I I '.IY'rl'a\h~l ............. %':!_ .......... ,,.,. . . . ' . ' '·~ 3 leading questions ~ :- Q. What I$ \Fenway\? A. Name of a Boston ball .park . . . also one of Arrow's famous button-down oxfords. Q. What Is \Sussex\? A. Name of a Bri1ish county ... also Arrow's famous wide- spread collar oxford shirt. •• •• ~ ~ :· -: :w ,m ·= •• •• :: ~ ~ ~ -: •• ~ ~ -: :s ~ ~ •• ~ Q What Is \Brockly\? • ~ ~ A: •••\on 0 a vegetable... ~ also Brockly is Arrow's reguld~ :.0 ~ collar oxford shirt. ~ ~~------~.~ ~ Ask your Arrow dealer for Arrow Gordon Oxfords ... $S.95 ~ ~ ~ ~ ARROW ~ I • » ~ ~ UNDERWEA~ ~ I :A~:KE:C:I~FS ~ I S~~RTS SH!RTS ~ ~~~rl'o\. .. \a\ae,Yw\'. .. \a••\o•.A.•.-No\•\J'rl'r.~.~.WM\' 9 il'r!'o\uKJ' Contest Schedu·led Sunday The Unic·n College Baseball Team~ opens its 1949 season this weekend, facing the Rochester YeHowjackets away tomorrow and returning Sunday to battle the Schenectady Blue Jays in a benefit exhibition game at McNearney Stadium at \Vhut was considered to be one of the bt>st teams that the league has e'\·er seen. The temn is naw at spring training camp in Seaford, Delawart>, and manager Dick Carter f('els that he may have an- othPr JH•nnant winnt>r. Bob Faubel and Walt Krupa are slated for mound duty for l'nion. . 3:00 P.:(v.I. KaznO\vski to Pitcll Coach Art Lawrence will prob- ably use Bill Kaznowski. 21 year old Sophomc·re from Patchogue, Lvng Islam!, \\' his starting pitcher .tomunuw, with last year's veteran Ed Ca1·sky, who is recovering from a leg injuty, in rserve. Kaznowski. a Rtar on last s~ason's GR.rnPt has· ketball team, has a good fast baH and has been working hard lately ·impt·oving his curve halL Bill Eade and Cal Schmidt will probably share the catching assignment. Newhard Injured The infield will be composed of John Tognieri at first base, Cap- tain Truman Rice at short, and either Cookie Sherwin or Chick Meehan at third. Bob Newhard· of Albany Pharmacy was to get the second base position, but a sprained ankle received in yes- terday's practice may force a change in this part of the lineup. AI Wade, who had a .312 batting average last year, will start in left field, Roy pcmeroy, a transfer from Champlain, will be in center, and Bob Staley will hold down right field. Rochester The Rochester contest will be the 67th meeting of the two teams, Union having won 34 to Rochester's 32. Last year the Riverrnen de- feated Union by a score {;•f 8 to 3 here and were turned back 3-0 at Rochester in a two game series. Carl Wren and Captain Dick Garnish, who are both playing their fourth year of intercollegiate diamond competition, will prob- ably be the starting battery for Rochester. It was Wren who last year defeated the Garnet nine 8-3 in the first of two games. Rochester coach Lou Alexander also has five other men returning from last year's squad, which attained a 7 and 5 record. Sunday will be Union College Day at McNearney Stadium here in Schenectady, when the Dutch- men meet the Schenectady Blue Jays in a benefit for the proposed 1 Memorial Field House. Two years I ago the Blue Jays wen the Can- Am League championsl!lp with 1 Come in soon and take your pick of these crisp ~ Anow bea\ti••· ~ ~ Arrow Ties, $1.00 to $2.50 Shirts, $3.95 Cub Lacrosse Ten .T.o Open Up Slate The Un·ion College :Freshman la- crosse squad will open its six game schedule at 2:00 p.m. tomorrow agairu;t the Middlebury College var- sity on Council Field. The Vermonters introduced the \Old Indian Game\ last season at their school, and were defeated by the Union yeM!ings by a 5-0 score ln one of their first games. Union has one of its best freshman squads ln years, and Coach Clem Tornlina remarked this week that \this year's freshman squad is at least 100% Better than last year's year- ling team.\ The probable starting lineup for the Unicn cubs tomorrow includes: Herb Hufnagel, Stan Peschal, and Ken Schneelock, attack; Jack Rob- inson, Les Couch, and Bill Win- chester, midfield; Bob Hass, Paul Madison, and Jack Cerriere, de- fense; Jce Frick or Blll O'Conner, goal. FORMAL WEAR FOR RENT Custom Made Clothes Complete Cleaning Service Avon Cleaners 21 State Street PHONE- 4-2722 · I :; N U S B -AU M' S L~

. ' ' I ~ . I ·' I' ',;, :I 4 / Gowan, Phi Beta Kappa, Achieves Personal Goal Anzio Vet SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY STR£E1 German Film at Sage The German motion pictw-e, \Dar Blaue Engel\ will be presented at the Russell Sage Little Theater on Monday, April 25, at 7:80 p.m. L. G. Balfour Co. BADGES STEINS RINGS JEWELRY GIFTS FAVORS GAZETTE STATIONERY PROGRAMS CLUB PINS KEYS MEDALS TROPHIES PRESS Prices 9.95 others to l9e95 Printers Write or Call CARL SORENSEN WATERFORD, NEW YORK Telephone 644 bs a FREEMAN SAoe THE FOOTWEAR OF SUCCESSFUL M~N Snug is the word for these wonder- fully pliable \casuals\ ... boldly stitched ... smart in any company. Concealed elastic gore hugs the in- step, adds a dressy touch to non: chalant ease. NUSBAUM'S ·Prexy Talks ~On Taxation GATEWAY Restaurant DELICIOUS FOOD COURTEOUS SERVICE I 04 State St •. Sch'dy, N. Y .. WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS Fo,. NATCHES and JEWELRY Repair.inCJ and En9ravin9 Pens and the Finest Gifts Corner Sfaf .... and Center Sts. LARRY FOLEY PRESENTS TH E NEWEST STYLES To Hire WHITE (Tropical Weight Gabardine) AND POWDER BLUE (Tropical Weight) FORMAL TUXEDOS With Smart New Maroon & Blue Accessories These Summer Tu~edos and Accessories will be on display ~t PSI-U House on April 23-24. FOR SALE-New Double Breasted ~xedos $37.50 WALDORF TUXEDO Co., Inc. Men's Formal Wear ,;EXCLUSIVELY\ 452 Broadway 'Phone 4-50 II ALBANY,· N. Y. Open Thurs. 'Til 9 -. FRiDAY, \'APRIL 22. 1.949 · :ftOTT RESTAURANT,. and BAR· • · ~lght Outside Green Gate WINES - LIQUORS and BEER NEWSPAPER FOR SALE . Are you interestf!d in a · · · 11ews career? Here is a .growing business. Money~ ne~ker, Weekly in Boston · Grea. R(!co9nized leadin9 Jlaper in field~ Complete • . Equipment. Linotypes, Lud· :low, ·Caster, Saws, Goss· '·Web press. - $4:1,500. WRITE . • .ARLINGTON PRESS P. 0. Box 68 Arlington, Mass. GOOD FOOD? Try ' · Elmer•s Restaurant 149 Barrett St. Where Union Men Are- . Always Welcome LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Stele\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTI TERRACE and STATE STREET i • • = • • • ••• S.LACKS a11.d PANTS Sweaters,· Sport Coats ROCHESTER P A N T 5 S T 0 'R E • The Store With ·1,000 Pairs'· •• of Pants to Ohoose From • 412 STATE ST. (Upstairs) 1 : •. 1·11-Qpan Th4rs •••.••..• . _ .. · _ Till 9 P, M. . Vc ju M fr to m d~ gr th ar He Ja w Ar in wi pe as th su tic a\ A~ se: se· no de dr st: Cl gr pi: to li~ m: ne di m pr irr de pi ~;e lir de • so te M F: CJ be M d! w as M at ec Ill ·m Ei fll is ci rn r~

·was I eve no. a of V~c oil Jim the the de- out- half, for nlon first and· re- the half 21 the one in a 55• e s) ~ .. Vol. '16, No. 25 Quo Vadi~? ...,Cour.t~sy Rensselaer Polytechnic Union's representative, Clifford Brown, is pictured above durllig . the joust with .(h•and Marshal.elect Jen-y :Elsworth at the RPI .Campus Cai!nival, RP:i; won three out of the· five· tricks. • • trusts Founded at\Vnion College in 1-877 SCHENECTADY, N, Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1949 PRICE 10 CENTS ·- ' . - . Trustees Approve ROTC Unit; Air Force Acceptance Awaited

-2 ,, '· .. I' ... FRIDAY, APRil 29, 1949 . For Your Information Union Goes Bop by St. Joe de Bop mnnrnr SATURDAY, APRIL 30. Varsity Track,. Union vs, Hamilton, at Clinton, 1:30 p.m. Fc•Uowing th~ precept Silt by our~~--~------~-----~:.......-----------'--- incompEtrable, St. Joe, who bas Via St, Louis, A. Trip to the Moon kindly (if •llapplly) relinquished his space, yours truly- )las in mind this week an ilvent aimed not at. your education, your intellectual· betterment, and n.ot e:ven at yoU!' wallet . . . but, my lucky fellow ·jazz enthusiasts, an event which . should enable you to ·let down your n1ember Associated Col· leglate Press and di~tri· butor ot the Collegiate , Digest. Nat!Onhl Adver- tising H.epresentatt ve: No.· tlonal- Advertising Servict>, Iitc., College i'ubll\hers Hepresentative, 420 Ma•li- , son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub· tished every Fl·.i•lay of the school year. Edltorl\al Office, Washburu · Hall. Uulon Cull!!ge. l'ul:J- lkatlon Office, The Ga· zette Press, 334 State St l~•.tereu in the Schenee tady Post Office as SeC· ot11l C:las:; Mail Matter. sub-cription 1 Oc a copy. $~ > .-ur · ,jeJlverE'J an)·· \-h In the United ' Stat3S. SE!IilOR lHIARD JA!IlES MUltltAY ........................... Editor GEU!tlib: T. tJl~ll'K .............. l·:uitur E11•el'l:U' H·l::HBEHT SAXE.. . .. \~Hwiate ~:<l!t 0 r JA:\11-:S l·:Trl:\!ll:fl. . ... Sports lc<lltul' HA!Ill'\i':L H! •~Wul•: .. . . ........ l<·eatUI e ~li!tul HUBEUT ~A\\1.:\S. ...........•.... l 1 lioto I·.tl1lur WILLl.-1.:\! THA YEit. .• \,ling Cinulation ~lanager LEO::-> \\'J·:ISBl' W lll ..... \l'tiug I3w;i·ues~ ~1-aiiHget JC'i!OR ROA!tll Jantes Bn·Hull, Dun :>I. C'regler, \\'nlf~ang Hiemt>r REI'OHTERS J:triit'~ c.ull, J .I~ ( 'fthl1. \YayTte I la\'.i.... Hidta·l'd (~e)rer, I,o1u.ld Uuertm. Irving Haudh·r. J~:rnmt Klein, lJuuald ~:khwat tz, F'rault Stevt:>us. \Y~llia rn Taylor, J't:t oil h.· ( 'iannt•L I' IIOTU STAFl' Robert Heineillalln, E\·au H1chatd~. Hubert U Sdtwu.rtz, Ut..·tJI'ge ~ \\\oorlntff. 11\'Sl:'IOESS STAFF Fr~Jt!l iLl\. J)~\ ,til, l~ul li•H <;ru~l.;.y, Lt~ •• 1\upet~chntid. Stuart II. ~kniam, \Kenneth 8 Sheldon. Jr CI RlTLA'I'IO X STAF I<' Henry Dul'at, Jt~ron:e l;~u tnt·t:, Rubert Grtndlt>~' Richard Philipp, George Hedington, Alfred Siegd, Hobert Strand, \\'illiam \\'ln .. heoter, Hicharu Youn~. llU::-> M. l'RElHEH. bsue Editor ..., The Air Force Unit If the Air Force accepts Union as a training center what will it mean to the campus? You '\'ill find some faculty mem- bers vociferously opposed to a· training unit because thev think it means restrictions upon the ac;rlemic training of the student. Some oppose it because they feel it is war mongering. Others just feel that the pro-. gram will cont1·ibute nothing constructive to either the Air Force or the college. Those in favor seem to think it is a neces- sity in view of the present world situation SJ.nd the statement made bv the Air Force that this colleg·e training,· however inade- quate, would condition the students involved to quicker training in case of an emergency. We think it regrettable that the college deems it necessary to establish the unit here. We are not being unrealistic about if and trying to avoid the present grave world situation; we know that there is a great need for trained men in the services and that in case of emergency there must be a reserve on tap. However, we feel that a small col- lege such as Union is not the proper place for adoption of such a long-range program. If the training lasts four years, it is obvious that the unit will not be established as merely an emergency measme. Although some faculty members feel that the program will not affect the rest of the college a great deal, we disagree. We cannot see how the addition of courses to meet Air Force de- mands and the l'estrictions placed upon their students can help but affect the college. Is it the function of a small liberal arts college to incorporate programs such as this one? We don't believe so. We feel that a small college will tum out trained men only so long as they bow to the passionate quest for knowledge and proceed undiverted. We do not think that training a batch of mon- grels, half educated along academic lines and half along military lines is the pt·oper solu- tion to either the military problem or to the need for properly trained thinkers. While we see the need for training officers we do not think that it is necessary for small colleges to prostitute themselves to make it possible. It Was :Rumored • Varsity bs,sebil.ll, Uniop vs. Trinity, at Schenec- tady, 2:30 p.m. Freshman lacrosse, Union vs. Kimball-Union, at Schenectady, 2:30 p.m. Varsity lacrosse, Union vs. Cornell, at Schenec- tady, 2:30 p.m. Block ,;U\ Dinner, Hale House, 6 p.m. Ulee Club conceit at Schenectady Alumni As- sociation dance, Mohawk Golf C.:lub, b1'oad- cast over WSNY from 9 to 9:30 p.m. Tickets for $1.50 may be secured at, VVells House. tiLNDAY, '1\lAY 1. Sunday service, Memorial Chavel, 11 a.m. Preacher, Dr. Hc·ward Rubendall!, headruaste1· of Mt. Hermon School, Mt. Hermon, Massachusetts. MONDAY, MAY 2. Daily assembly, Memo1·iai Chapel, noon. Junior Prom Committee. Utaduate Reco1d Exam[nations, Psychology Laboratory 102, 1 .p.m. hair, get your- !ticks· with -the boys in the back room, and set your date up with some solid stuff. · That is, if either she or you needs exte1~nal stimu]ation. ONCE AGMN, W ed,hesday eve- ning, May 1l:; at '8 :30, the hallowed walls of Ye Olde Union will shake and shudder to another gratis edi- .Uon of Art Agnello's Pastel 'Shades. For tnose of you who are new, square, {)1- .ha-ve suffered the sor.t of -convenient amnesia necessary. for all us inmates, here is' the story. Ulee Club reheaJ·sal, Memorial Chapel, 4:30 p.-m. SligJ.ttly over a year ago; when·. Movie, \Destry Rides Again,\ Old Chapel, 4:30 · the spirit of constitutions a-nd and 7:30 p.m. '\directed\ activity had not yet per- meated every cor.ner of our in- -stitution, a few musicians decided· that the student body was suffer- ing in the throes of rigor mortis · French pa-rty, Silliman Hall, 7:30 p.m. .!.\leeting, \P1·os a-nd Cons of Health Conipensa- tion,\ Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Photo by Hninomann An impromtu sessiou after a regular MondaY. mght I·ehea.rsal. TUESDAY, MAY 3. Graduate Record Examinations, squarissimus. Biling reckless per- Psychology Laboratory 102, 8 am. and 1 .s-onality types, they embarked on p.m. a venture which resulted in an . . excellent jazzed-up chapel pro- Datly assembly, Memonal Chapel, noon. Speaker, gram and a well-attended and re- Robert E. Burner '50. : ceived concert lEtst spring. From left to right, the hoys parta.Wng of ''le . jazz hot\ are P.ete Kratz, Art Agnello,. Cliff Casey, Roy M:cArthu.r, Bill Austin, Joe ·Gabriels, :,Fred CUre-, and Da,ve Martin. Fifth a_ nnual Foreign Affair:s Co.nferen_ce _ fc•r HEAR. TENED .by the 1 ·~· apparent h h h I d t cl . f titles wm enable you to make up. publicity, there are ·?- .few char- tg_ sc oo .stu en s, . un et a_us_ PnJces 0 . success, and looking for an ap- U c 11 I t t 1 R 1 t Cl b your own mind. , In order, from -acters worth spotlighting. If we man ° ege n erna !Ona e a 10 s u . propriate swan song for their col- right to left, side to side, .fast to ueglect others, we protest lack of and_ Schenectad_y Le_ague_of w_ omen Voters, lege actt'vt'tl'es, the Un1'on Colle-ge· 1 H 11 1 30 t 3 Old Ch 1 slow, and so f-o•rth, we h~;~:ve: Lover space. All have worked their heads Baley a • · 0 p.m., ape' Dance Band decided to pattern a: Man, Night and Day,. I Surrender 'down to.\tl:J.e spoorgy matter to pro- 3:30 to 4 = 30 p.m. new concert after last year's up-. Dear, a repeat demand perform- vide entevtainment for the stu- Faculty Council meeting, President's Office, 4:30 · roarious capers ... but bigger .... ance of Stardust, Idaho, How High dents. Fre.d Pratt has come up p.m. • ·more varied : : . and, they hope, · The Moon, and a mad job _ by with some fine arrangements. Movie, \\De:.; try Rides Again,\ Old Chapel, 4:30 more entertammg. , 'pianist Roy (The Joy) McArthur Casey, the alto man, sides in with and 7:30 p.m. To this end, the boys have been which intends to be Yestjlrdays. a good horn. Fred Cure and Amateur Radio Club, EE 22, 7 p.m. swe~ting. out num,erous practice It .Is no doubt apparent to you cohorts carry the trumpet blasts, Flying Club, CE 304, 7:15 p.m. . sessiOns Pm _thGe gyms tropthytroom, that the reverberation rate in Dr. caanjdolsA, rbte_sht'dimesseblflowpt~nrgs~atdoep~noatnchd WEDNESDAY, MAY 4. Vat·sity track, Union vs. as =:-ny ht · am can at es , per- Richmond's Chapel might range · fectmg a group . of unusual ar- dangerously high during some of bone. rangements contributed by talent these numbers. With a nod to the Saving the best inducement for from Rochester, New York, and squeamish, they are insuring the the last, Art has acquired a new, from the band members them- lives of the audience for one bop and luscious vocalist, Helen Lynn, Rochester at Schenectady, 2:30 p.m. Varsity baseball, Union vs. Cha;rnplain, at Platts- Varsity lacrosse, Union vs. Syracuse, at Syracuse, MOST OF YOU reading this will hat and tie, and one CoPY of Stan 'whoo has sung with top bands, in- 3 p.m. certainly want to_,know what kind Kenton's \Anthropology\ apiece. eluding Tommy Reyt!Olqs. If you. burgh, 3 p.m. Freshman lacrosse, Union vs. RPI, at Troy, 4 p.m. - of music will be played. This is a Beyond that, we can offer an eve- were deaf, it wouldn't make any question being mucho inoot except nlng of soothing music (soothing difference, believe me. for Agnello and· his cohorts . . . to the wild aniil)al) and appro- So, friends, be good to yourself. and at times, even they aren't priate cracks. Forget your pills and your psychia- Varsity tennis, Union vs. Rochester, at Rochester, : sure. Perhaps a partial list of song MU~H AS TH;E BAND abhors trist, and have a good time. Glee Club rehea!sal, Memorial Chapel, 4.30 p.m. 4:30 p.m. Glee Club Advisory Committee, English reading room, Bailey Hall, 7:30 p.m. Schubert Club rehearsal, Memorial Chapel, 7:30 p.m. Student Council, Old Chapel, 7:30 p.m. Merit awards. Open lecture, Physics Lecture Room, 8 p.m. Speaker, Professor Ernest E. Dale of the Biology Department, on the subject '\Rus- sian Ideological Genetics.\ THURSDAY, MAY 5. Prize Day, Memorial Chapel, 11 a.m. to 12 noon. Last morning class period suspended. 2 points credit. Varsity tennis, Union vs. Hobart, at Geneva, 1:30 p.m. Varsity golf, Union vs. St. Lawrence, at Sche- nectady, 2:30 p.m. American. Association of University Professors, Hale House Lounge, ·8 p.m. College concert, St. Lawrence University Choir, Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Two points credit. Mountebanks rehearsal ·of \The Front' Page,\ Hanna Hall, 8:30 :p.m. Staff and college employees invited. Fraternity Night. FRIDAY, MAY 6. Daily assembly, Memorial Chapel, noon. Recital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh. • Interfraternity Sing, Memorial Chapel, 5 p.m. Sigma Xi initiation, Old Chapel, 5:45 p.m. Dinner, Hale House, 6:30 p.m. Lecture in Physics Laboratory 202; speaker, Dr. Brittain of Bell. Telephone Labol'atories. Schubert Club concert, Memorial Chapel, 8:30 p.m. Joan Brainard, sopranc•. Tickets at door. Junior Prom, Alumni Gymnasium, 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. (The question of whether Ol' not classes will be held on Saturday morning, May 7, will be determined by the Faculty Council at its meeting on May 3.) • By Robert Navias Special for the Corsages Prom of Orchids of GardE;lnias of Roses .. $4.00 $2.50 . $2.50, $3.00, $4.00, $5.00 20 per cent discount on above prices for Union College Students T. J. KING FLORAL SHOP 317 State St. NOTT RESTAURANT and BAR • Right Outside Green Gate WINES - LIQUORS and BEER For Car Troubles S~;~e a UNION MAN Phone\\ 2~3.361 LARRY FOLEY PRESENTS THE NEWEST STYLES To Hire WHITE (Tropical Weight Gabardine) AND POWDER A number of local property~----------~~~----------------~ After a bit of searching, a kind soul in the County Clerlt's office found the official deed of transfer of a plot of land described as lot !50 on a map referred to as the Subdivision of Union College Grouuds West of the Terrace, as s-old to Henry S. De Forest and dated April 15, 1907. A painstaking study of the deed revealed that there were no restrictive clauses affecting land other than that tl;ansferred under the deed. BLU,E owners have recently stated that Seward Place, was, we were told, there is a clause in the deed trans- in the original deed transferring ferring land on the lower side of a plot of land below Seward Place Seward Place which restricts any from the Trustees of Union Col- building Ol\ the upper side of lege to Henry S. De Forest. This Seward Place for a period of one land was sold as building lots by hundred years. De Forest during and after 1907. THESE SAME landowners ob-. Long time residents of Seward jected to the building of the pas- Place have, so they say, always ture parking lot at the beginning understood that the restrictive of the war, but did not publicly clause mentioned was written into protest since the lot was a war the deed, although upon question- measure and would, it was thought,· ing, none of the residents said be removed after the duration. . they had ever qheclted their deeds, Now, however, since the park- or the original.· The restriction al- ing lot has not been re·moved ancl leged held for a hundred years the pasture barracks have been after the orjgiual date of sale, 1907. built,· some Seward Place residents WHEN INTERVIEWED, Mr. have become bitter and dislllus- Anthony Hoadley, comptroller, SEtid ioned. They claim that the college he knew nothing at all about the \just doesn't care what people matter, had. hea.rd' nothing, and think anymore\. And . now, with would be glad for us to find out tentative plans for construction of whatever we could. The County a dormitory in the pasture, the Clerk.'s offlc·e, however, was _most Seward Place landowners \don't helpful. We were shown the Index quite know what too think.\ of all property transfers since the THE CLAUSE, restricting build- county was founded in the first lng in. the college meadow above decade of the nineteenth century. An examination of a deed trans- ferring a building lot from De Forest to the present owner men- tons no restrfctions other than those specifically set forth in the original deed. In short, the Seward Place landown.ers just do not know what they are talking about. We would not like to speculate how this rumor originally started, but we really don't know, and, in the final analysis, .we don't realiy care. The Important point is simply that the college, can legally build a dormitory in the }.)asture. William H. Plath ..... • •· • • II • • • • 60 I llnion Street AUTO SERVICE SLACKS and PANTS Sw~aters, Sport Coats ROCHESTER PANTS STORE • '.l.'he Store With 1;000 Pairs • of :Pants to Choose From • 412 STATE ST. .(Upafm.rs) =····l~fG~ P~hu~1:111•1 (Tropical Weight) .. FORMAL TUXEDOS With Smart New Maroon & Blue Accessor~es . These Summer Tuxedos and $-ccessories will be on display at PSI-U House on April 23-24. · FOR SALE-:-New Double Breasted Tuxedos $37.50. WALDORF TUXEDO Co., Inc. Men's Formal Wa~r \EXCLUSIVElY\ 452. Broadway Phone 4-5011 ALB;\NY, N. Y: Open Thurs. ;Til 9 Fl th hi tu -sl• tll sli st tll iti pi J~ b~ di th cl 01 gl pl pl ci c~ tt si h4 ru sc ir. tl st f~ L ti a a1 tc fi fc c a, n l'l p li tl '\ a. v 0 ;_ c c ~

mann we of eads pro- stu- up ents. with and and for new, in- you. any rself. 0 9 FRIDAY, APRIL. 29,<~~1949 At Home··rhis Wee end I Baseballe:rs ·BE.NCH BLlSTE~RS ~ Track. Squad Will Seek Second Win ·In Hamilton Meet Softball Schedule (Week of May 2) Stickmen Favored. Dutchmen To Face Trinity OverCorneiiTen .Tomorrow In Second Start Apr. 29-R uggies-Faculty . Alpha Delt-Sig Chi , After cox:tvlncingly romping away Rummies-Psychopaths : ~.;;;;;;=_By ··JIM ETTINGER--. -.-; from Trinity College last. Saturday, Betas~Phi Sig Delt 87%-38'h on Alexander Field, May 2-Theta Delt-Phi Gam •Collldh Art Lawrence's Uni0111 Col- ·Coach Bill Ketz's trackme~ will go Sig Phi-K.N. legJe baseball squad gained Cllnsid- after their second triumph of the Calverts-Ruggies ·e1•able p.estige in tile eyes of. the yo~ng seasc•n . when they meet· Kappa Sig-Phi Delt &C>henectady baseball ·fans as a re- Hamilton College a:t CLinton, N. Y., · May 3-Indians-Faculty sUit of the sUJrprising brnnd of ball tomorrow afternom1, The cinder- Jolly Boys~Night ·Owls th,ey .pla.yeli against tbe Sclhenec- men will try to emulate their 101-25 I!.lack Fleet-Panthel's ' tao.y Blue-Jays o:f th.e -cJiass () victory of Iatt year agaln:st the D ClU--D.U. CaJJJaJdian-Amrerican League .in ·the Co.ntinentals when the Ga·rnet took : . May 4---Phi Sig K-Chi Psi In Fourth Contest Despite the fact that they dropped a ·close contest to the Hobart Statesmen, 6-5, last Satur- day on Library Field for their third straight .Joss, Coach Vic Starzenski's lacrosse squad wHI be favc•red to hit the win trail at the expense of the \Bid Red\ from Cornell tomorrow when the two teams clash on Library Field at· 2:30 P.M. e31hibition .ga.me .at .McNearney all the first places. .ASCE!~D Phi Stadiuu.• last Sunday, --4 . Ten Lettermen PS\ U-Sig Chi Cornell Weakened The Dutchmml not only outplayed Thi·s year Ham!·lton· is led by Half Pints-Phi G8;Dl h fi d b t th · t h 0 Two .weeks ago Hobart walloped the Jays il;l t e el • · u · · ey ou - Captain Bob Clement, who heads · May fi-Nig t · wls-Ruggies Cornell by a 10-6 score at Geneva, hit them 11-7, and hit with vir- ten re1mrning lett_ermen on the LaE? Gatos~Psycho- h f h and although comparative scores tually no trouble the t ree pro es-. rc•ster. The Continentals will be pat s · h f d th All t b 1 d t are not always a good basis of sional p1tche1 s t at ace · em. str. ongest in th.e we 1 'ght events. . games o · e p aye a · · h · f 7 p M prediction, the Garnet, who will be DeSpite the SUIJlerl~r s .owmg o · having two men, Fred Schin. idt and · • · · th ... , · te h .._,_ at top strength for the .contest, are e ·uniorn· a.rn, owever, ow.e Jack Heinig who hold Hamllton's .. n. full. u t t f u-• conll.cent of victory. Cornell will s .. .a,noo · · Y SI!la urnou • o •non . record in shotput, javelin, and tud t · ... _ \- fit t not field its usually strong team as s ens; at a game .., .;,.,ne no discus. However, they· will prob- N·lne M'an T·enn·•s th 1 ·.,~.. b t th tud t b dy many varsity players have grad- e B U.:..ays .u e s en o ·ably prov.e to be· weak in the it if itif ·-·' uated in the last year. se , VIas p w., weights, also, In competition with· 5 d 1 S 1 t d Out of approximately 1300 fans• the Garnet's Ken Whalen and Art ·q· UG . $ e ec! e · Hobart Game present, the majority were Blue Hagor. id d Although playing their best game Jay rooters, and this was ev ence ·Trinity Meet The considerably weakened , of the season to date, the stick- by the noise and \college spirit Against Trinity, the trackmen Union College tennis team, under men went down to defeat at the displayed 'by them irt support of' took ten out of f<J•Urteen possible • the tutelage of Coach Pete Nistad, ha·nds of Hobart College. by a 6-5 their team. The few eeeble Union· first ·places. Newt Culver,. Ken opened its season today a,gainst d count last Saturday. The game's cheers were lost In the backgroun . Wha.len, and .Art Hagar led· the. Hamilton College on the hc•me \\\\ hat outstanding player was Hobart's .AlthOiUJgh it 'is bad eno..,.A. t Dutchmen. with two victories courts. Next Wednesday, and Thurs- Bob Demuth who scored five of only f!llllruJ. groups show up at apiece while Jack Milford, in win~ day the .sq).lad takes to the road, the Statesmen's six goals. It was garr,!es .piayed) on the lJnion c.am.-. ning the .pole vault., turned in the· playing Rochester and Hobart sue- his goal in the finai stanza that pus, it is Shameful when this hap- most impressive perfo!'mance of cessively. declded the outcome of the nip pens at a public gathering, espe- the day. Milford vaulted 12 feet -'\\\ f th- tw: N thin h Nh!e Man Squad and tuck struggle. Gordon Sater- u.uo..u.y one o IS na. ~e. o . g w · ich is a remarkable jump for a lee, the Ho}:lart ace, was held can lJe done to impat't spirit ihto small college athlete this early in Coach Nistad selected a nine scoreless all afternoon by a watch- the student boldy. We should be the season. Clarence Simmons was man squad this week out of the ful Union defense. shamed into Wt!.oil and suppcrl, second with 11 feet, 6 inches. original 20 candidates. The men however, :by our !~bowing iast Sun- Culver won the 880 in 2:05.8 and who were scheduled for action this Union's Jerry Rost, who has ·been day. tied in the mile with Ray Bel- afternoon are: Co-Captain Dick playing superbly all year, scored :f. If. '~- la,nger in 4:51.2. Unic·n took a clean Jesser, number one;. Frazier Henry, two goals for the Garnet. Tom The highlight of the intramural sweep .. in both these events. In the number two; Co-Captain Lou Kil- Quinlin, who played his finest game· softball competitio.n this Spring, an half-mile, Bellanger, Ed i.a.May, leen, number thl'ee; Bill .Judson, to date, matched Jerry with two of inno:vation whichs·holild add zest to and Graydon Loomis trailed Culver .number four; Joe Alberdynk, .num- his own. John Niblock broke into the contests, is the entrance of a in that order. Townsend MacCoun ber five; and either John Cher- the scoring column by making the star-studded SCJ.Uad consisting of was third in the mile. vena:k or Cy Gluck, number six. first Garnet goal after Hobart had faculty members in the Southern Field Events The other two men remaining on taken a 2 -0 lead. It was \skinny\ Leagllle. Whalen and Hagor gave the the squad in reserve are Lec•n Jim Flynn who stole the cake for Coa:ch Tom Hoffman of .the e!ec- winners a clear superiority fn, the Weisburgh, and Allan Rumpf. the Union stickmen. Time and trical engineering departm\<.ht has field events. Whalen took the discus again Flynn blocked shots headed a veteran {not referring to their with a heave of 125 feet, 11 inches. The Garnet netsters have been for the Dutchmen's goalmouth. His age) group of 25 men from which and hurled the 16 pound shotput favored With good practice weather cleaving was faultless and he easily to choose his starting lineup. The 4;4 feet, 8 inches. Hagor threw the and the squad is in excellent con- displayed the form which gave an first -game on the schedule is slated javelin 161 feet, 1 inch, which was. dition. The tea')n has shown steady All-American mention In 1947. for tonight at 7 p.m. on South an unexpectedly good performance. improvement since the first call on Lineup Change Council Field,. as they tee off· He won the bread jump with a March 17. Unfortunately it .was the mid- against the Ruggles. leap of 20 feet, 10~ inches, leading n S T field that sho•wed the greatest S •~ce Art .. -·~renee_, the Jntra- Ed Williamson and Captain Ollie Ham ton Had arne eam ~· ..,...., weakness. To strength this posi- mural di~tor, may play..,and the Personeus. Hamilton arrived on campus to- tion, Coach Vic Starzenski has rules of 1Jh.e lea,gue state that UJlTho Other Union victories were Jn the day with the same squad that moved By George from the attack pires will be furnished we wre a 120 yard high hurdles, 100 yard represented them in 1948, as they to his last year's berth at midfield. little doubtful about the outcome of dash, ann the two mile run. Bob hadn't lost a man. Last year the Lou Snell and Matt Kazlauskas this initial debut. Normally we McQueen won over the sticks in. Garnet downed the Continentals will share By's place at attack. It w.o)lld pick the Ruggles to win by 16.2 seconds. Personeus led the by a 7-2 score. This was the 30th is hoped tha:t this switch will help at least 20 runs. pack in the century, winning in contest between Union and Hamil- to improve the scoring punch that :f. :f. :;. the slow time of 10.9 seconds. Bob ton since 1906. Of these the Dutch- the Garnet has lacked all season. .After standing through two la- Gai'lock and .Abe Lackshin tide. in men have won 19, lost 6 and tied The attack looked especially slug- crosse contests on Library Field, the double mile in 10:45 in a oom• 4· up to this afternoon. Neither gish in the Hobart game. on our feet n() less we began to piete runaway from the. two Trinity Hobart or Ro·chester was on last wonder what had happened to the entries. year's schedule, and little Is known Next Wednesday the stickmen bleachers that were installed for Newton. Leo turned in a double of their strength. visit the University of Syracuse in the convenience of .the spectato·rs win for the losers. He won the what should prove to be a monu- last season. We felt ·especially 440 in 52 seconds by 7 yards over The Union tennis squad has mental struggle. Union lost to the sorry for the visitors who had to Ed LaMay who was trailed by been the hardest hit of any Spring Orange last Y~tar by a 9-6 count, receive such treatment, although as Vance Thurston and Dud Keever. sport as far as the loss of men is and Syracuse has practically the the name of tbis column im-plies, Leo returned to beat Personeus 'in concerned. Last season's number same team back this year. Syra- we are not used to such brutal the 220 yard dash in 24.2 seconds, one and two men, Ivan Scheir and .cuse at the present is rl:l,ted no. 3 -----·-· ----~ By Bill Herrman a Eligibility Athletes Rule For Is Stated· Students' attention is cal'led to Article VII, Section 3 of the . eligibility rules of ·the Eastern CoHege .Athletic Conference of which Union is a member. \A student who takes part Jn · summer baseball or who serves as a counsellor at a summer camp, as· a J.ife guard or swim- ming instructor, as a tennis club attendant or instructor, or in a\ similar capacity without first securing the approval of · the appropriate athletic author- . ity at his institution, shall for- feit his right to rep1•esent his · institution the1·eafter in inter- collegiate competitic•n.\ All athletes must receive ad- vance permission even though no remuneration is involved, ac- cording to Ha1·old Wittner, Di- rector of Athletics. Application blanks are available at Mr. Wittner's office for those desir- ing them. Golf Team.Set To Tee Off In Initial Match The Union College golf team opened its 22nd season this after- noon against Hamilton College over the Edison Club Golf Course. Next Thursday the- golfers will tackle St. Lawrence in their second home start. This season's squad was chosen as a result of an eight round medal play. The seven men who came out on top, and who saw action to- day are, in the order of their selec- tion, Ben Swan, Capt. Dan Bas- kous, Chuck Leader, Allan Doyle, J.ce Behan, and either Warren Frost or Joe Mendelson. The Dutchmen have five veterans back fJ;om last year's squad, which po~ted a 5-2 record-:-five losses and two wins. This will be their first season under Coach Clare Graves. ·Last year· Union was defeated by Hamilton by a 9-0 score. After hav-ing been rained out ip. their opehing game against Roch~ e,;ter last Satu1ady, and dropping a close exhibition gan>e to the Sche- nectacy Blue Jays by a score of 5 to 3 on S·unday, the Union College Baseball Team opens at home this weekend, playing Stevens this alter- noon and Trinity torr.orrow at 2:30 p.m. Rained Out The game at Rc·chester had gone only one inning, with Bill Kaznow- ski pitching for the Garnet, when rain forced its postponerr ent. Sun- . day's contest saw Union outhit the Blue Jays 11 to 7, with Roy Pom- eroy supplying the big guns, rap- ping out four base hits out of five tries. Hcwever, two of the Blue Jays runs were unearned. The game VI as played .. for the benefit of the Union College Memorial Field House Fund, and President Carter Davidson threw out the first ball. Newhard Still Out This weekend's games will find Bob Newhard, second baseman from Albany Pharmacy, still miss- ing from the Garnet lineup with 3D ankle injury incurred in prac- tice last week. AI Wade will prob- ably tal\e his place at second, with Walt Krupa filling in at left field. Goach Art Lawrence expects to use either Kaznowsld or Ed Carsky en the mound this afternoon, with Bill Eade behind the plate. Tomor- row, Bob Faubel, 'l'hO held the Blue Jays to three hits in four Innings on Sunday, wiiJ start for the Dutch- men, with Cal Schmidt handling the catching. Tomorrow's garr:e will be the 15th garr.e between Union and Trinity, the Garnet having won ll to the Hilltoppers' 5. Last year Union de- feated Trinity by a scar~ o-f 4' to 3, the same score by which they lost to Stevens. Union Loolts Strong Judging from last .Sunday's game, the team might very well turn out to be one of the best in recent years. Besides Pomeroy's four blasts, Truman Rice and Bob Staley each got two for four, Rice driving in two runs. \Cookie\ Sher- win and Walt Krupa both made some sparkling plays, and John Tognieri at first reminds one a little of ~ule Haas. G A Z,E T T E PRESS Printers treatment ourselvef). slow tiine for a straightaway race. Burt Kusserow were lost\ through in the State, just behind Army and On contacting. tlhe a.thletic office g~ra~d~u~a~t~io~n:·----------~R~P~I=··-----~~-----~~·:::::::_'~·w:::w:::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ we we1·e wo.mled that m.e expense Swa·m Not· 1 c:e of installing bleachers is teo great. Although we cannot possibly con~ 20 men reported out ·for Senior ceive of wihere the \expense\' wonld· life-saving cla.Sses last Monday. coone from, exeept fro:q1 deprool- Swimming Coach Ray -Mullane is ation. «his sq.<~uld help to encourage In charge, assisted by Captain Joe atteiildance at lacrosse games, no Tpfel of the swimming team. The doubt. It's rea.lly too 'bad.' Non-swimmers· cla!ls meets at 4:80 For ~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;n GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY San Souci Weekend A FULL SUP·PLY OF 'LIQUORS and WINES at Patton & Hall Phil Englebart•s X-RAY Frl'TING ....- Mli STATE ST.-BinCle 189S 519 Union St. \' WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWEt._RY CO. HEADQUARTERS Fo,. HATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engra'V'ing Pens and the Finest Gifts Carnt:r' Sfaiu and Cent.r st11. 3-311,0 Its a FREEMAN S.hoe THE FO·OTWEAR OF SUCCE'SSFUL )'.lEN .. $14.95 Call it Brush, Buck, Suede or Reverse Calfskin ... here's luxur~ous leather in its softest form. The velvety \nap\ adds a new note of elegance to this outstanding shoe . ... . just about the smartest footw~ar a man could ask for. In blue and brown •. Nusbaum's

',! •, '~ ' :. ';,) ., .. ·' ·.1 ;'~ ' 4 ·•. President Davidson, in comment-· r,:::==============::-1 IBS Regional Conference ing on the Board's decision. said,· \I feel that it's a rather sad state of affairs t<> have a liberal arts col- leg~a without any art. W~a do hope: to have an adequate art depart- ment, properly housed.\ The regional spring conference St L s· of tlfe Intercollegiate Broadcasting . • awrence Ingers System will be held in the WRUC The Laurentian Singers, a St.: studio on Saturday and Sunday, Lawrence University choral group·· April 30-May 1. Delegates from comprising thirty-two voices, will Sampson, Cornell, Rochester, Bard, present a public concert at Mem- Clarkson, Oneonta, Russell Sage, orial Chapel ori Tuesday evening, and Union will attend the meeting. May 5, at 8 p.m. FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 1115 BARRETT STREET GAT.EWAY Restaurant DELICIOUS FOOD COURTEOUS SERVICE I 04 State St. Sch'dy, N. Y. L. G. Balfour Co. BADGES STEINS RINGS JEWELRY GIFTS FAVORS STATIONERY PROGRAMS CLUB PINS KEYS 1\'IEDALS TROPHIES ' Write or Call CARL SORENSEN WATERFORD, NEW YORK Telephone 644 T.AILS SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Ne.-.r FERRY NEWSPAPER FOR SALE Are you interested in .d news career? Here is a growing business. Money· maker. Weekly in Boston area. Recognized leading paper in field. Complete eq~ipment. Linotypes, Lud~ low, Caster, Saws, Goss· I Web press. - $41,500. . WRITE ARLINGTON PRESS P. 0. Box 68 Arlington, Mass. TUX FOR SANS SOUCI ' AT Ottaviano•s Sartorial Bar 114 JAY ST. OPP. CITY HALL • GENERAL HARDWARE • HOUSEHOLD GOODS • PAINTS David Mahoney Company 209 State St., Phone 3-3691 129 S. Brandywine Ave., Phone 3-3692 LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRE$CRI PTIONS \Service for th~ S'ick\ CHEMICAL,S ~ DRUGS Cor. NOn TERRACE and STATE STREET . . Men's and .Boy's Clothing .Ff·o rshei.rn Shoes DAN, A. DONAHUE - FIUDJ«~ ·APIUt 29, l94~f : annuai ·Lincoln Memorial L.eotuFe Is. In honor of Monsignor John ~ . . Re!Ily, pa~tor qf St. Jo-hn. the lllvan,- ; g(:)l!St Churc;tl. in .Schenectady for . fifty-nine years until ,his deat4 In 1945, and an outstanding. Li:p.coln- scb,olar. FOR All YOUR GIFT NEEDS FORMAL WEAR FOR RENT Custom Made Clothes Complete Cleaning Service · Avon Cleaners 21 State Street PHONE- 4-2722 MAKE YOURS THE MI:LDER_CIGAREJTE The TOP MEN of AMERICA'S ~PORTS . smoke CHESTERFIELD WHITEY LOCKMAN 'says ••• \lfs Chesterfields f~r ~e everytime.l smoke 'em7 beca.use} eyre really milder and better-tastmg. MORE COLLEGE S.TUDENTS SMOKE t'ut~'l'tot• THAN ANY OTHER. CIGARE'rTE lA1'EST \ATION~~ IURViY ''J ... J ] b r d t .e v b d l b VI h t• tl n 'I 0 h g, p 0 s a :I ]/. f( .rr sl a· sl g v . it i E n: tl }[ y sl si r• tl d St S• \1 ~ F F t: 11 c e l a h t c l 1 c c s a I t