1950 sozrie to the Field by a calUng, to ·the the was a the par- lo)J• lobster's rs were they the dis• progrlllll dl,lr- va- trip in- off the ·souls, be $37;50 or single wiU ·HAMMERSTROM NEW COA·CH CRACKED MIRR.OR Published Seldomly By Concordiensis a+ Union College ' Vol. 77, No. 21. Saturday, April 1:, 1950 ,. Red Beards· ·. Pictured ahove is the Union cell of the Pro- gi·cssive Student 'Vorkc1'~ 0f the World, in thPir weekly secret meeting. It was reported by a reliable SOl\l'CC that they are planning a student uprising to take place the night the ex-communist professor deliveres his speech in chapel. The picture, taken at great risk, by an FBI man who has wormed his way into the group, shows the leaders demonstrating the. technique· they plan to use on the trustees and reaction- ary student leaders. · Price 10 Cents

Page. Two April I , 1'950 Rapidly Rising Ralph To Play James Brysoit, Associate Editor , ®- Ralph F1anagan and his' up-swinging down-heaters haye been named a~ melodians for· Union's Junior Prom May 5. Flanagan will come here dHectly from the world fa:rno~s Meadowbrook, as the 'first stop on a long list of collegia~e bookings, ~lanagan's 1:ecent .rapid' rise in recording popularity has made . hbn one of the biggest names m the music busmess .. Aiming his arrangements directly at dancing pleasure,~ Flanagan WBrked with Per.ry ·Como on the NBC \Supper Club'' before organizing his own outfit~ He is regarded by mqst of his contempol'aries as the lad who will set the fastest pace the harmony industry has ever known. ., Flanagan's is the first band ·in !> ---- ---- - -- - ' many ypars to have been created I d t f the t' epar ure rom con muous 1 by popular de~and. The zoom of music idea; .but we feel it is justi- his record sales, and dozens of po- fied with Flanagan. He's got the tential bookings encouraged him t,o, kind of orchestra .that helps yo.u take his outfit on the road. Con- remember certain ·nights. WRUC were offered by prac\.ically has a stock of his recordings that .. tracts will sell the ca!'Ilpus on him. every well-known location and Bemie Woods, music editor ()f., hotel. Qollege proms ~nd ballr(}()m · Variety, has also complimented ' engagements have been signed in Flanagan on his rapid success : rapid succession. • since his recordings were released . \Danceability was the biggest last SUlmiDler, and felt RCA Victor: factor in choc-sing Flanagan,\ Ed-· lvas justified in putting ihim at the , win Wheeler, prom chair-man, ex- top of the heap. · plained. ''Evel\yone who has heard Arranging is Flanagan's biggest ' his recordings has been enthusi- offering to music a,lidiences. He astci with the choice, even if he has worked as pianist-arranger for' : did record 'Ragg Mopp'.\ Sammy Kaye, as arranger for Tony ~ Steven (\Mel Allen's got nothing Pa!ltor. ChnrliP Barnett. Blue Bar-' on me\) Fib, ace disc spinner and ron, and Perry Como I; sportcaster of WSNY, opinioned that \Flanagan seems to be spear- heading the current drive back to THIS IS STRAIGHT dance music. .. He's on top now, and I ilhin.k he'll stay there, be- Miss Doris Van Kuren, a leader cause he really makes a solid im- in sane, non-fanatic thought among pression. He's pretty much of the young people will speak in Me- mid~ntu.ry GleJ!.Il Miller; I like morial Chapel Wednesday, April 12, ' his music very much.\ on the topic \Your Squirrel Cage, Jack: Fischel, ·prom procurer of Brother.\ The program is no't of a music, stated, \Some .of the stu-' religious nature, and one point dents might not approve of the credit will be given for attendance:.· Mr~ America, 1910 ·Ex-Union Gridiron Great Returns; Spring Training Begins AprillO ( Poll (.E'd. Note: Tlils is tlte f~rst re· port on several polls Qf student opinion being a,dministered by ·tile - feature staff. In tetvlewers for tills · .one were Lawrence Greenberg,. Wll• Uam Holzapfel, Jolut MacDougal. Joseph s. Tofel, and Michael W.olfl),) The consensus of student . opinion apparently is opposed to the new editorial policy of the/ Idol, according- to a poll of 100 representative Union, students, conducted by the feature staff of the Con- . cordiensis. Only 11% favored the plans of Editor Howard . Simons for a purely literary Idol, while 34% were for It humor magazine and 55% preferred one which is half and half. FOUR OTHER questions pertain- ing to Union College publications were asked by the poll takers. One, concerning the establishment of a Union College Press to handle col- lege and student publications, was answered in the 'affirmative by 55%. Seventy- three per cent of those interviewed were satisfied .with a single issue of the Concordy each week rather than two or more, and only 34% thought that a second campus paper would be a good idea. In response to the final question, which called for suggestions about new ~ncordy features, there were varied proposals. These includ'ed a. campaign to set up a centralized lost and found department on campus, more news from outside the campus, articles of a more humorous nature, features on pro- fessors, more \crusading jour- nalism»' more complete coverage of intramurals, •a column by students from nearby women's colleges; agitation for eliminating Saturday classes, excerpts from other col• By Don Schwartz ®--------- -------------------- lege newspapers, and a fiction Samuel C. Hammerstrom, a I were Duk~ Nelson, head coach at standing four year high school leader on the field for three Middlebury University, Nels Nitch- record in which he has produced years when he was one of man, head coach at the U. S. two undefeated teams. He started · C , Coast Guard Academy, John Wood,. at Massena High School 'in 1946 Umon ollege s greateSt backfield coach at Wesleyan Uni- and in his only year there, Ham- hack::~, has returned to become versity, and recommendations by. merstrom's team was undefeated. head coach of football, Presi~ I McLaughry and Lo.u Littl~, h~ad .II He moved to Jamestown in '47, dent Carter Davidson an-I coach at Columbta Umvers1ty-. thP year McLaughry came to d M c1 , • I Nitchman was head coach here in 1 Union,·· and he immediately im- nounce or; a~ ~ornmg., 1939 when Union last b.ad an un-~ proved? the record there. He has Hammerstrom s appOintment I defeated season. Nelson was his had two consecutive . fine teams, ended a huiTied one week I line coach.. ~ cillminating with the undefeated quest for a coach to sueceed THE FINAL DECISION was 1949 squad. During h.is hitch in John J. :\kLatt<l'hf'' who is I rPac~ed Saturday_ afternoon at a I the Navy, Sam _was ~ststant coac.h • 0 · \ ' · I meeting at President Davidson's ! at the Atlantic Ctty Naval Air leavmg Saturday to assume house with Wittner and Hammer- Station for a while. his new duties as head coach strom. The latter was the third ap- HAMMERSTRO~I has been sue- at Amherst College. plicant interviewed in two days. cessful with both the single wing PRESIDENT DAVIDSON also He came last and stayed the long- .and the winged \T\ style of of- rE>vealed that the new coach has est, arriving at the final agree- . fense. One of the roost outstanding hel;ln na,m.Pd. a A a.A!li!'ltant professor 1. ment latP in thP aftPrnoon. cbaracteristics of Sam's success of phyRiral education and, in addi-1 A predominately student com• lhas been his ability to adapt his tifln to his football duties, he will mittee stamped their e~dorsement I, teal?l's style .of play to the ro~terial handle freshmen basketball. He of Hammerstrom on Friday morn- available. Of course, Sam Will not will assume his nE'w duties with I ing. Along with Wittner, the prin- decide on his style of offense at the beginning of spring training cipal members of the committee Union until he has :Observed the on April 10. However, he will finish were Brud Shaffer a?d Dave Garnet in spring practi¢e. Since the year at Jamestown High Strauss, 1949 co-captams, and ,mid-season of 1947, the Dutchmen School, his present job, while. Chuck Abba and Bob Fletcher, • have employed the winged .. T'' hoping to obtain a leave of absence .1950 co-captains. attack, so he can complete the spring McLAUGHRY's assistants will It is coincident that Hammer- training program, remain with Hammerstrom. They . strom becomes Garnet mentor fol- st6ry. One suggestion, a political column, is currently under consid- eration by the editors. ---0--- Football Czar Hammerstroro was ·chosen from include Tony Rocco, assistant ·lowing an undefeated season as he over 40 candidates, whose ap- coach: Art Lawrence, line coach, . was captain . of the last previous· pllcations swarmed the office of ~nd Pete Nistad,. freshmen coach. u.il.defeated eleven, in 1939, which he was highest scorer in the east Director of Athletics J. Harold Sam, as did McLaughry, will prob- was only the second unbe~ten cam- and fourth highest in the n,ation. Wittner after the announcement ably handle the backs. ~paimng ·ever achieved here. sam Sam was the· only New YiOrker of McLaughry's departure. Among • This wiU be Hamerstr.om's first was na.'med fullback on the Little chosen and only oae of two east• those who were also considered college assignment after an out· ·All-American team that year as e111ers. l .April B A mur~ Rem shoeE farm' runa1 m,ittE to le: miss] ah p1 In GJ w 28 - phil: herE emb rum was his bail. Co' gene: ing seve1 sellir of hi .off.\ IN Cott sche1 that smai tionE oriti• has otts · in l'i the' Thm stan Dt that lotte 8000.1 aile~ hint Ubrf

50 I'll• ent tbe .bls . rn. ~nl. : fl.) nt ed of oll on he n- ed rd 'ry a % tlf : n- ns 1e, a )1- alf by of ed iy or a a - n, ut re a ~d, >n ie re o- .1'- of ts \ April 1, . ·1 : 950 Page Three Heiress Attacked in \Love Nest\ ' After Quarrel With Union St~df!nt. I Pelice were combing the Union campus today foT one of the principals in the hushed-up \love nes~' a lonely eabin nestled in the quiet foothills of murder perpetrated last week - during a lovers' . quarrel in Rensselaer county. The body of a beautiful blonde, dressed in high-heeled~~ - --------- - - - - · shoes, was discovered last Monday morning by a frustrated LOVERS' PARADISE farmer who wandered · into the cabin while looking for a : runa\v.ay · cow. 'fhe farmer; Abner 0. Fertile, . who · is · ad- -: . ·· : ::::. ~r:~: ·: . :> ::: · · . :· . <;: ·:~ , ' .. { ·o; • m.Htedly extremely near-sigh ted, reported that he attempted I ,, ,,,,_ , ;:: ' to lead the slain girl hack to his farm, thinking it was his 1 , .. ,,~, ~,. ·, · f .''' l 1 ' ' ' '' ' ''\ 'if'' ''· :: missing cow. \Ah discovered , that it 'twarnt my cow when ah put my arm around 'er,'' he said. • ·--· - ~ Police immediately identi- 1 . nd ·· ' l. ct · Cott on fied the culprit as a Union man, as it was obvious from G ft Ch · one look at the body that the , ra . ' · , . arge girl had been given a block-U · haircut. She had not been identified up to 'yesterday, but' . pelice tentatively named her · as Ida Plowed, 24-yea.r old undergarment-heiress w h o disappeared .from her home 1 at Corntassel on the Hudson ' about 10 days ago. · An investigation was being made to . find the names of any men with. whom Miss Plowed had been keep- ing company. Her father, Corn- tassel anillionaire, was in Arizona ' fishing~ and was not available . for . comment, but friends of the dead girl reported that she often had secret ?:endezvous · with men · or · similar individuals. She sometimes woUld disap~ar for entire week- ends with a tall person on a bi- cycle, they said. This information substantiated police claims that the man was a Union student. Investigators had no leads on the case, - but Lieutenants Lawrence PHILIPOLET COTT · Klopp and Charles Nudniek were W h · ~ D C h searching for a bicycle, dust traces as m~ ~;On, · · ., Marc on a pair of shoes and a block-U 28 - Philipolet 'Cott, noted haircut on a girl similar to Miss . philanthropist, was indicted · Plowed. According to Lt. Nudnick, here this week on a charge of several women staff members were examined in the Administration embezzelment of funds and Building for evidences of similar running an illegal lottery. He attaclts, but none showed any signs was released in the custodw of of suffering the same fate as the his grandfather on $100,000 \love nest\ victim. bail. Meanwhile, unofficial statements Secret rendezvous whe1'e Union student allegedly met and · mudered underwear heiress in lovers' quarrel. Shack was evi- dently bUnt by eccentric group of young men who apparently use it for overnight hikes with other groups. PoJi(l8 are now looking into the legality of the trips and the uniformity · of sex of the hikers. FERTILE AND FRIEND Cott, who is well known for his generosity and ' clever money-mak- ing schemes, was arrested after several people claimed that he was selling faJted. tickets and that none of l:lis so-called lotteries ever \paid . off.\ diyulged that Lt. Klopp worked . on several women but results of the alleg-ed investigation were not known this morning. \ .. . \ Since the \love ne~t\ slayer is ·< · still at large on the campus, all\ female residents of the campus have been asked to stay in at night, if possible. If it is nece,a- sary for them to venture outside , police officials have asked them to be sure to travel on well-lighted roads. Lt. Klopp has · offered his services to escort any damsels in distress through the campus. He may be COI1tacted for· appointments at his home or at police headquar- teJ;s. If a woman answers, he re- commends that tb.e caller hang up. IN IDS usual flowery rhetoric, Cott claimed that his underhand schemes were quite unselfish, and that they· were for the benefit of a smaii eastern college, not men- tioned by either Cott or the auth- orities. Rumor . bas it that Cott has for so.me :Vears been mysteri~ oils benefactor of a college located in New York State, somewhere in tl,le· vicinity of Indian Ladder. These rumors have not been sub- stantiated, however. During later testimony, Cott said that the funds were re~lly to be· that the money gained from the for a field house. lottery was to be . used to cons~ruct Government authorities are wait- some much-needed buildings OD · the ing for a college in the Indian Lad- alleged college's camp'US. Cott der vicinity to go bankrupt, thus hinted at a dormitory or a new proving that it is the school in library, but tinofficial reports said · question. · . ' . Abner P. Fertile, Rensselaer county f , armer, leads Bessy to bed after finding her in his living room. It was the loss of J3Pssy wbjc.h · ca . ~sed Fertile to stumble upon the body of Iwaz Plowed in a lonely cabin near his fann and bring a scandal to Union College. In a\[J exCl~usive statement to the Cracked Mirror reporter, the near- sighted farmer said, \Ah guess Bessy was in th' livin' room all th' time, but when ah loo~ed in thar ah thought it -was my Wife. Ah knew thet dead gal wasn't my cow, though, 'cause Bessy never felt Hke . that. It was then I figgered thet Bessy was in til' llvin' room, 'cause ah . remered my wife died in '89. Ah'm gettin' glasses ne . xt week.'' There are so many frustrations in modern life that people are becoming more and more : irustrat~d. The only solution to the growing problem is less frustration. ~ ' '

Page Four April, F.o(Jl! April I I 1950 G-Men Expose Gambling Ring Schenectady, N. Y., Aprill,-1950-Local police today raid• ed a gambling hall and bookie establishment found to be operating under the blessing of the Union College admin· istration. The official name of the den was \Memorial Chapel\ and daily meetings were held under the guise of advancing culture. --------------- <$> The complicated system worked Have A Kavalier! pel'fectly until the racket was un- covered by the campus newspaper. Each day, except Wednesday, stu- dents ~eard a jumble of \announce- ments\ read at the mass meeting. However, each pertinent name and number gave a tip .on a horse race For some ti~e now we have felt or a patteim to dope out the ear- th t th. t d t , rect number. for the Capital Dis· a ,e s u en s around here ar11 trict n.umbers rackets. Such names just tQQ naive, and the other day we got .proof. as: EE 22 or Bailey Hall 108 de· Last Thursday's Hale House noted a tip on what combination of lunch liners found themselves con-' letters or numbers. would be the fro·nted· with a black-bearded char- winner' on the following day. After acter who, to all appearances, was arranging the informai;ion in a there to ·kill somel;lody. He• looked special chart in the chapel hymnals, a good deal like Long John Silver mformed students wrote their num- must have looked although his oos- bers and names on a green, pink, tun:e seemed a 'uttle moth-eaten. y.ellow or white slip, which they His ensemble was an odd mixture 'handed to a member of the under- of one third Superman outfit one I world as they left the building. third Dracula get-up, and one third 1 Arter the sUps were collected, .tramp. Hi's -long saber fooled they _were sorted by a member of everybody. Now this ominous in- the hbmry staff and ·distributed to truder took up a position midway various bookies according to the between the cashiers, and soon be- t;ac~ or . rack.et de~ired. <Green: gan to hand out Cavalier cigarettes Slgmfled JamaiCa; pmk, Roose:velt to everyone who was unable to Ra?eway; yellow, Santa Anita; and avoid him at the end ·or the line white, Albany numbers.) Winners As we've said, -almost anyone in hi~ received recognition of their sue- senses should have ·been scared to ?ess through the medium of a small death. mked n11mber beside their name, N~w several explanations con- Rosted , at the entrance to the cernmg this curiosity have been ad- chapel · vanced,-no.ne of which we accept. ~~CE .THE \announcements\ It was said that Mr. Phillips, who or1gmated .m the college presidenes was unable to come here without ?ffice, a lmk b~tween the admin- a disguise, had been sneaked on 1stratwn and Crime Syndicate, In- campus by Sam Newcomer · with corp'(ated is ·p~bable. Further eVi- the clever costume masking his dence was available last winter identity. This explanation fails, of when a losing editor urged the. re- course, because no one has ripped moval of the ·required assemblies. down the flag1 from. the chapel yet. He became suspicious when the Another story has it that the head of the college reduced the masked cavalier (he looked more number of attendances from 30 to like a pirate) was handing out reef- 20. The council of students will also 7rs in hopes of starting a mar!- b~ questiQlled because it was an- JUana society on campus; but Bill X1ous to enforce the letter of the Ketz was quick to discredit this law. one, saying that such a club could- n't he formed until 1952 at least, ---10--- Do ¥() +h~'\1 D; '\!'. C'ay· r , when more student actiVity money I ' /.-, .I 1 '1-.A J, .J will he on hand. Another wild tale , has It that Prexy went beserlr, and F0 17 Cl •t DEAR MISS FIX: S-X has al- the \battleaxes are gone\ and thought he was standing. there . r arl y ppp Fights ways been a naughty word around going up another fli ht · . passi~g ou~ diplomas Instead of . our house. My parents never told and . to th d kg of stairs ~avaller mgarettes. This story Umon College has spawned an- me about things I am a young I m:t :no er ar room. Then Isn't very convincing, though, for other Gree)t letter society destined attractive ·gi;l of 32 ·and my lack of all I reme~vbee .p~ssed .out,d beca~~e Prexy probab}y would have had the to simplify language and litera- knowledge about ... thjngs has stairs and oi~ 18 h~~In~ own e Dean pass out the dips for him at ture in the trend .established by come to plague me now that I am home 1 f 1 f l;tl b tt hend I {f 0 t such an unorthodox hme. Another contemporary novelists. Rho Rho out of my adolesce~ce Last week 1 d' ' e. da 1 1 d'ed ,et er an t en explanation suggested that the Rho has dedicated itself to the · 1scoveie . 1 n come home enigmatic 1 It pr t' f f 1 tt I was invited to a fraternity party· with 11 th th' . th I v s or was a new psy- opoga ron o our e · er words it wa,; my first ·real gi'own-up party 0 t ,·.:tha ::-,;; e mgs_ a~ went ?hology professor who was stand- as expressing \the r.ealest, most and I was excited. Maybe I should 1 11 ~e t' 1 ; • utw .~t\het·~thbud;V \adnts mg there getting acquainted with I organic, closest associations with 1 o go ou w1 · • em an I the hoys true l'f 1' · \ N · t· tell you about the part\. :My blind don't know wh. D'd I d ' . I I e lvmg. o appropna JOn date picked me up and we went to 1 thing wro ., ~ · 1 0 some· The! exp~anations which appear 1 from the student tax committee the party with another couple :\iy I ANS\\\'nRg.' N f t \t most plaus1ble to our investigating has been voted to the group for the · • 1 \\ , • ..,. • • o, ra .enn Y men commltt b 'I d t t fi I dale w:~s dr i\'ing and he ,k 1 ·pt mut- lil<e \~oung'\ womt•n \h w\ll . • ce ' 01 ·O>Wn o these I curren sea year. tcring \hat \a dog\ to his friend, 'into tht• spirit of the a~t . 1 ~;:;; . thr~c: l ~~ The man was t~c Broad- 1 At their first meeting in a. dive but I couldn't se~ any dog, in th .. 'd·t·s~riptiun of tht• .. ,.;,nin!.' a1 11 '.\a~. ~:nr~ murderer lookmg for a 1 on low~r Broadway, conversation street \Yhcn \·c \<>t'·to th<' pnrtJ· I n·ith ,. 011 r . d ~· 1 ~ g ncv. \lctrm, cr !21 he was some- 1 and husmess was cond.ucted entire- . ~ • J In J III<'I'{'USt' popu anty bod•· who man ' d t f I . f 1 tt I couldn't see any people b~rausc show I bat ·ou nutde a bi h· 0 t J , age o .escape rom 1 Y m. our . e er words.,. Subsequent the fuoe burned out, he told mc. 'tbt> affair ~ 1 suggt• t th ~ a g a the Character Research cage 1 meetmgs m Old Chapel were dis- \'i'e went uo.\·mtairs and he hap.d\d 1 c<'pt tht• date offens ·~·ou ~et~~d a('~ !seven people g.ot ?ut last week), 1 rupted by the arrival of several me sumcthmg to drink. H1· told 1 011 h•H·ing a good timE'. If ·ou ~ 0 or !3). he \/las. a flymg saucer ptlot 1 members of the UCCA and the me it was ginger ale, but it was I' not understand all abo 't ~ . '.\h~ stopped m to eat, got caught I Campus Constabulary. Commenting pretty bitter stuff. I had a couple do not wony Colle u • ·' bing~, t~kl.ng extra butter (heaven for- on the revolting development, Fred• of big glasses of it ond then didn't I quitt> hroad-~ind d g~ n;entl ale ?td!), and was put to work hand- erick Law Moose, chief' exponent of want anymore. I don't remember I things, and a r 1111 .:erni~~ 0 ~an = ,~r:,_~ out smokes sent by so. me com-~ the fr?-ternal object~ves, .s.aid i,~ an much after that except going up- never take advantage of P Ey. . . exclus1ve Concordy mterv1ew, --. stairs and hearing something about imlocence your ~ J;>eat It as qmckly and as --· -- --. - Is -. - and more;. . · mys Cl'1ously as he appeared. -·- -- are ~H!\ • • , 'I ~pril I I 1950 Pcrc;Je Five, MER0'01N C. IAN 5Kf·;JUMP Marvin's Queer Castle /Found Anthor's sketch of the Castle of Prince Marvin. By W. Dykeman Levy Recently, while browsing through the library stacks, Dr. Frank Albright, a noted archealogist, came aerl?ss a bundle of old parchment in the section where ou-tside read- ing for freshman history is kept: consequently it had never bleen noticed. Dr. Albright investigated these documents and reports a discovery which will well shock historians, -~~---- <$> The newest of these pa:pers, in Oldsmobaker Shows Car English l'eads somewhat as fo!o.. lows: \The 5th day of May 1776 • , • I have proceeded north to a vil- lage 17 miles NW of Fort Orange to make a genera·! survey and earth sample of the land. .Arriving .John 3. .J. Oldsmobaker, Union at this Village whose. ·lll\Pronounc- '00, unveiled his new 19 51 model car able indian name translates freely today, at a special showing on li- as \Passing of the Water\ I was Nosy Noosl •e brarv field. Oldsrnobaker, fellow- greeted by a local minister , .. ing bis pian of showin,r the ne\' <Here the writer tells in length of models of his ears at tbe larrrest of the survey accomylished and the WINSTON AL- the eastern co.Jlee-es decided ,,,.. 0 n dir;c.(wery of the entom.bed skuc- THE QUESTION Do you think Senator Mac- Ca~ty is a communist? ; THE ANSWERS L E R D y C E Union, even though the unv~ilin?~ ture whi<lh 'he sketched. The sketch SMYTHE, noted have taken place here thrP~> ti!Y'P• accompar,ies.) The reverend .gen- st t D t t P reViously, since Un.ion sturlent3 'telman requested that, the bujJd.ing a e · epJ3,·r men t being too horrible for the sight of authority on Eu- use on he avel'age ·of 4.17 ca11s per· the inhajlitants, all of it be re- rasian beverages, semester. interred save the highest part ·of· said, \My dear Oldsrnobakel' a~nounced the 1ar!?'P the great tmret, the stairs reach- f e II ow, really, number Of techmca·l !mprovPrroPnts . ing it .. ·. <Here the writer tells how should I on this ,vear's n•odel as includi.nf( 1 of discovering some ancient scrolls, know? I make it a ~.550.63 ho:se-power moto-r t:o f!'JW 1 indeciphemble, which tie left with ELMER T, DOWN PA ¥- :MENT, an emin- ent New York business man re- plied with an em- phatic, \No. Sen- ator Mac Carty isn't a commun- ist. He's one of the 'bright stars in the repub1ican party, He's an mY business omck startmg- ani! e1'sY plok·lll'. his host who prc,fessed· great ·scbol- 1 never to mix in seven .t!res for. onlv thr;P v·he~'• ! arly interest, this latter gentleman 1 poI it i c s. l\1y t? facthtate QUICk changmg of the 'pl'omising the unearth the ·secrets A·l red blooded American boy, just the sort of man we really need in congress. How could he be a ~ommunist? The communists a1·e all radicals.\ SIMON H. B L 0 0 D- HOUND, FBI outstanding in- vestigator usual- ly known only by his number; X8%, said·, when he im- merged from his bath of finger- priiJt ink, \What is Mac Carty a red? You mean I missed something? When did he do it? The :X#***@@ will never get away with it. 1'11 stop hi= He <:an't do this t9., us. 3)lst wait 'til I get my hands'l'ton that dirty ... \ Bloodhound was last seen running down Pennsylvania Avenue with a submach.ine gun clutched in his right hand. czar was deposed. IGNATZ IVAN R 0 liEROFF, suspected foreign agent to be de- ported tomarrow on the S. S. La- va t o r y, s a i d, when we could find some one to translate from Upper Slobovian to Lower Slobo- vian to Eng-. lish, \Ach he ·should he one ·of the party? We try to get intelli- gent peoples in the party. Bat I vould say that he is doing a very good job of tearing down the eVil capitolistic government of the United States. Ach, he should live so lo:pg!\ field ha:> nothing to tires when en ro11te f.r. nr,~• i of the docun·ents and present t)J.em tics. I am an expert in Eurasian r1~n\\\ et\. More important than 1 to the· learned world. The paper beverages. The only thing I know ell thesP improverrent\. as f~r ~· here ends. about Russia is that excellent vod- Union men are concerned, is tloe ka has not been made since the fA.rt that therA is an a.ut.cn·atir 1 Dr. Albright found no evidence JOiiNSQfl 111. driver. esDeciallv planned for us~ 1 of tr1111slation of the aqcient scrolls F I L A .D U S- after leaving Milo's, Beanie's a.nd but was able to manage the job TER, the youth- an the other museu.ms <'round earn- himself. The documents were writ- ftil representative pus. ten in crude Frankish script, attri- from Taxes, in an Parlting is very easy with this buta:ble to the Me1·ovingian period exclusive inter- 'new model, since the fenders and and their substan<!l! pur:ports as view with this re- bumpers are both constructed of 'follows: In the reig.n of \Lothair or t e r, said, foam rubber. The widest part of the the Schmuck,\ a royal e:xpedition \While I don't car, at· the hips, is but 35 inches. 'under the leadership of Prince really know if The· wheels are 36.00xl6, and all Marvin (k;nown to history' as Mar- the, er, gentle- seven that come with the car are Vin the Pervert because ·of his un- men in question garnet-walled. Tne figurine at the usual behavior) sailed west from is a communist or : top of the hood is ~a small statue Gaul and landed finally ~t this not, and while I believe in g1v:tng of Minerva. spot. They established a. civiliza- such people every benefit of doubt, The crowning feature of the car tion and built their palace. The I do think, that if he is not a com~ is the lack of brakes; and the loud odd shaped ramp on top formed a munist, hia actions haYe been very horn that plays \If you want to go particular diversion •. These light- suspicious. to Union\ every time a gjr.l passes. hearted Merovingians would tie a serf to their feet, grease .llim thor- -New Model The new 1950 Oldsmobakej\ \Special Deluxe,\ featuring gatnet side-walled tires, overpowerfnl motor, and automatic driver. 011 each side of the car can be seen the jets liSed for qUick starting. I oughly;and then start s)i(!jng down the ramp, pushing themselves on- ward with a spear. Tbe ramp was highly polished. lt was a ~ritest who could slide farthest past the declevity. One hero succe~ded in , sliding all the way up the far end ?Jld over the edge, He fell three . hundred feet, but survived as the serf took. the brunt of the force. The hero was much acclaim.ed for this feat and many others soon were able to attain it. ·Thus did their civilization prosper. That their population did trot grow and overwhelm this continent is due largely to the high fata1ities .among the serfs wbo engaged in their sport, but otherwise these jocose medie'vals enjoyed their life. ·They even had an Inqultition fifty ·years after the· lB..Ilding. The colony suddenly · died out (Dr. Albright places the date at !j69AI>, but is . not sure as the Merovingian .calen- dar was b11sed on the calc\lla.ti(}ns of :a myoptic astronomer) due pos- sibly to mass. .poisoning. . TJJ.e last lines in the journal tell of a. sud- den change in the tl;\ste 00: the river · watel.'.

Page Six <!rntttnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and' distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver· tlsing Representative: Na- tional Advertising . Service, Inc . , College Publish~ers Representative, 420 Madi- son A,ve., N, Y .. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the , school yea,r. Editorial Oi'l'lce.Washburn Hall; Union College. Pub- lication OffiC'e, 1.'he ' Ga- zette Press, 3:)4 Sta:te St. Entered in ~he Schenec- tady Post Office as sec- ond Class Mftll :'.f.att•'r , subscription 10c a ropy; $3 year delivered a · nY· where In the United States. SENIOR BOARD WOLFGANG 'RIEMER ........... .. ........ .. .......... ... ........ . Editor JAMES BRYSON ...................................... Associate Editors DON CREG!Ell. ' JAY COHN MARTIN SIEGEL . ...................................... . ... Pa . ge Editors WILLARD TAYL0R W.AY!IIE -DAVIS ............... . ......... . ................. !1/ews Editor DO!IIALD SCHWARTZ ..................................... Sports Editor ROBERT :\A VIAS . ... . . . ... .. . . ... . . .. .. . ......... . ..... .. Photo Editor ·LEON WEISB1JRGH .......................... . ..... . . Business Manager WILLIAM THA YEll ........ . ........ . .... .. ... . ... . Ch'culation Manager JUNIOR BOARD WALTER TOWER ....... . ... . ... .. ... . .................... Copy Editors ROBERT STRAND JEROM·E GARTNER IRVING HANDLER ....... . ..... . ... .. ............... . Exchange Editor BURTON GRUSKY . ....................... Assistant Business Manage r s LEO KUPERSCHMID ALAS HADACK. RICHAHD P.!IIWPPS ................... A••istant Circulation ;\tanagers REPORTERS John Cassidy, Dermot Demis , Arthur Gold, Donald Guertin, Leo Hal· loran, Eugene Halpe r t, Hei ' liert Hiller, Jerome Klein, :\larvin Kohli , Tony Lane, La..,Ielll'e Leviu~e, \~'illiam ~Iohrmann .. C a. lvin Ma-linkn. David Palmer, Eric Schmidt, Stephen Simons, David \Veichert, John \Veiss . FEATURE STAFF Paul Carbone. Peter F'yfe, William Holzapfel, AlfreJ Kiugon , \Yalte r Levy, John Mud.Juuga.l, Juhu :\lu~cs, lluLcrt :llurr~Y. Tikhnrcl :\<'mPth . !\lonro\ Silvermann, Hohl'l't Smith. Jo~E'f S. Tofel. John Von Jess, David Weart, . Michael Wolfe . George Woodruff PHOTO STAFF BUSINESS STAFF Stephen Brown Jame\ DeSoi · ho . FreciE'rlrk Devan, Hyman · !•'Iorence, Joseph Hanoller, Charles Little, Daniel Siesel. CIRCUI,ATION STAFF Thomas Davenport . Henry Durat, Tinbert Gt,inc'lley, Ge01·ge Redington, Horace VanVoast , William Winchester, Richard Young, AI Nolan. Up Our Sleeves Why should we apologize? We plead temporary insanity caused by an excess of material to study over time to study it in. Yes, we mean those mid-term hour exams. Frankly this issue has given us an opportunity to let off some steam. We had a wonderful tjme putting out this paper and we hope you, dear reader, will • have just an en- j()yable time. Certainly it is our hope that no one will tal{e the humble effotts at humor too seriously especially this traditional April fool idea which seems to go hand in hand with the coming of spring. There always is that problem of the limits of good taste which a paper like the Concordiensis must concern itself with. This is especially true with the situation of having student tar committee funds given the paper which allow cost free disbibution to the student body. ' April I, 1950 Letters Mr. William · C. Van Ost, Co-Chair.man Union · College \Snow Ball\ Committee Dear Mr. Van Ost: The officers· and members of ,the Damyon Runy:on Memorial Fund wish .. to extend their sincere appreciatiqn to , ti).e student .body of . Un:ion College for their wonc;ler.ful silppor.t of the winter \Snow Ball\. THE FUNDS WHICH you have so generously controbuted will : be used to fight cancer. · The idea of the \Snow Ball\ which originated in your institution ~ill I hope spread to other schools thrpughout the nation. ~n this . manner the .funds are put to . work premptly in the areas where they are raised. OVER $3,000,000 has been collected to date an'd $2,666,574 . Paid ' out in 85 grants and 52 fellowships in 77 institutions in 35 states and 2 fe1lowships in 2 institutions . in · Canada and 1 fellowship in England. Lists of fellowships anq grants are enclosed. · Many thanks :again to all of you good folks . at Union Coll'ege . and • particularly to tl;le \Snow Ball\ committee. Sincerely you:rs, WALTER WINCHELL · Book Shelf \Tbe Several Journeys into dictive as he takes his hero on the Foreign Lands of third voyage which lands him in a Captain Lemuel P. Gullive~·\ · country where the people : . are By Jonathan Swift vapidly concerned with. science, This fascinating picaresque novel political studies, and maintain a purports in a mock travelogue style government patterned af.ter our to tell of several sea voyages of a own. The Captain is an1used at middle class physician who earns· the government which is made out his living as a ship's surgeon. Ac- to be run by fools and fat-heads, tually it is a bitter political · diatribe forever inefficient and obviou~ by an · obviously ma:l-adjusted par- against the best interests of the lor Pink. Swift, the author, is a public. little . known clergyman who left his · The last voyage sums up .Swift's native pulpit to lobby in Congress entire idiotic .philosophy. He puts for a hardware m;l.nufacturer. his hero · on an island ; inhabitated When congress refused his de- by Centaurs · of \most noble appear- mands · for .the right to · manufac- ance and bearing\ who . address ture trolley tokens in the District each other as \Comrade\ and look . of Columbia, Swift burst into a fit with disdain upon the captain. of anger and left that august body, They consider him an irrational resolved to have revenge. He being, given to all the human pas- · rapidly convinced himself that the sions with no virtues · at all, and American Way was , at fault, read treat him as an animal. They ~on­ much literature, and was seen at stantly, lecture to him on society several Labor Par.ty meetings ap- and politics and in 'tbe end con- · plauding loudly. One Heed say no vince him of the error of his class. more. He leaves a reformed man: re- The fit\st voyage of Swift's hero · solved to return to his · native finds him shipwrec}.ted on an un· country and change the ways of charted island where · he meets a his countrymen. race of people six inches high. Throughout this last book, the They are avidly concerned with · author's invective runs at a fran- business affairs, and the captain is zied pace. Heis obviously infeeted al;llused how much energy they with some social disease which is spend ~tcquiring gold as the one decaying his ,Prain, for I)() sane per- $5.00 gold piece he owns is son could have written this mess reckoned as worth more than the of literary sewage. It is · fortunate entire wealth of their kingdom . for the American People that news- The reader can immec;liately see · papers such as this exist to prote<;!t that Swift is anti-capital. them from subversive influences. In his second voyage,the Captain Take care that you are not affected lands on a continent inhabited by by this · book, for the language is giants who are forever concerned powerfui, the words well written, with their appearance. The Cap- and the binding attractive. Proof tain is small enough so he may see that the author is a perverted mad- right through the weave in their man with paranoid tendencies lies clothes, . observe the roughness of in his refusing an,y royalties from their skins , and laug.h at their at- his publisher. Swift claims that he tempts to move gracefully . This wants the book sold as cheaply as vicious attack on the American possible to reach the greatest num- standards of dress and behavior ber of . people. Watch Out Intel- can hardly be missed. lectuals: 'fhis mad-m.an is after ' Swift gets more and more vin- your minds! Good taste is beyond doubt a subjective sort of a criterion with which to judge written matter and it is indeed difficult to please every one. We have tried to do our best to please the majority of those connected with Union College and we B;ble P · assa · g· e hope we have succeeded in so doing. Ill Perhaps it could be said that true leadership is not blind Bill South is my dietician; I shall not want. following of the whims of the mob. However, we must main- He maketh me to eat vitamins; tain that some of this type of thing is always going on even He feedeth me proteins and calories. if many of us refuse to see this in the urge for social con- He ignoreth my taste. formity. He feedeth me cabbage and broccoli for nutrition's sake. Our position is this. Leadership is a combination of Yea, though I protest in the columns of the ·Concordy, putting across individual ideas and conforming to the dom- I will get no changes; for he is stubborn. mant fo~·ms of th~::mght. In other w?rds, using the urge for His rules and his regUlations discombort me. conformity to brmg about that which the individual feels He prepareth the menu beforehand with the connivance of to be the proper and correct thing. · the authorities; · We r3;ti<malize .t~is situation of our April fool issue He releaseth my digestive juices; my system runneth over. down to this. By gammg, we hope, the good wi11 of students Surely dyspepsia and heartburn shail fo11ow me all the days and faculty we will be ::iding the task of convincing others . of my life, ~at a later date of essential correctness of some of our views. And I will curse Hale House forever. Apr F B B :6 gOV • ing res{ sau last S · the; per : thrl miC \ti:r ear · in : a \ as Wit ing eye ha< an< noi , sue we : do ' \m <Ua me k.n l tht , fr<1 · en 1 de l aC I pro pe : ai'• sh M1 of · on . ~g Tl: di! th m: tb wl ha bu lei sp gr 1 1 si p v A I I 0 t: h b q p I J i : i: · <l i :

1950 'und r of all\. 1 : be tion this . they out ld 2 and. and .the in a , are ~nee, , n a our 'i at out ~ads, Ill~ the rift's puts a ted >ear- h!ess look tain. . onal pas- and con- Jiety con- : lass. re- ltive s of the cren- lCted :h is per- mess . .nate ews- :>tec::t nces. !cted re is tten, >roof mad- lies from. tt he S as :mm- :ntel- after e of 1ver. iays April · I, 1'950 : Flying . Plate Bailey Bombards . Beaver Dorin . Includ , e :Seaver Lodge was shrouded in· • Hall · Fo,ssils Re.al Relics Page Seven governmental secrecy today fonow- \Yes there definitely are fossils in Bailey Hall. But there's really no need ing . the reported crash of a missne to worry, though. These particular fossils a1~e part of the stone panels in the resembling the so-called \flying d fi fl saucers'' through. its northern wan CONHJ:ilO ious men's lounge on the rst · oor.\ These reassuring words were p.ro- last night. nounced recently by Ronald F. Martin. Mr. Martin, we should point out, is a Several . students claimed that paleontologist (paleontology, the Science that dealS With life Of past geologiC they ·saw a strange circular object, periods- · -. Webster). perhaps ten feet in diameter, crash Martin went · Ofl to say that the lime. stone in which .these particular fossils through the wan sl:iortiy before are situated was once sea bottom. The fossils were exclusively ma:dne, you midnight last night and that a \tiny man,\ wearing only modif-ied know. With a large magn;.~ying glass, a thing paleontologists are addicted to, ear-phones, . emerged from the hole he pointed out what to our untutored eyes looked like a fossil life saver. That, in the building and disappeared in we: were informed, was all that remained of. a little animal called the crinoid, a \ . puff of smoke.\ · \Onomatopoeia · .redicularia , . to be exact. Crinoids Martin said are found in The students described the man k - f. . h 0 d • • ' 600 000 000 ' th ' Th\ as being \about udee feet higJ1, roc s rom t. e r OVlCian, · , , · years ago, to e present. · · IS means With ~n extremely large head, hav- that these pieces · Of stone are at least of Ordovician age. 'iilg. what appeared to be tl:lree I@> By the time we J:lad digested eyes.\ They said that he was bald, had at least a dozen long fingers . and that his external org:;ms did not ll!ilem normal. Stunned · by the . suddenness of the event; the men were frozen to. the spot alid could · do nothing but stare at the little ' \man;\ ' The students were imme- d,iately · taken into custody by ..FBI men, and their whereabouts is not k:nown. FBI agents were investigating the incident, but reports . released · from official sou).\ces said that the · entire affair was a · hoax. \The stu- dents hit!i obviously ·been d~inking, ac::cox:ding to Stanley S. Shovel, president of the Schenectady tem- perance league and head of the area committee opposing subver- sive activities and \flying saucers.\ Mr. Shovel stated that the illusion of seeing strange . objects is brought on by \a mixture of northern lights, sleet, cold air and alcohol.\ The students have been taken to a distant sanitarium to recover from the - shock>, he reported. The - hole caused by the crash may be seen in Beaver Lodge, but the saucer evidently disintegrated when it hit the ground. No tr~ce · has been found of the little \man . but it · has been reported that col- lege officials are seeking him to I speak at next Monday's chapel pro- gram. these interesting facts, . our friend was off to · new fields of explor- ation, or rather, new stone slabs. With a gleeful cry, · he sh(JIWed us a coral. A coral, we asked. Yes, a coral, Martin said ; a tetracoral. The tetracorals ranged from: the Ordovician to the Permial!, or to . just about 300,000,000 years : ago. So you see, . now we ;know that this stuff is Permian or older. ' After probing into a corner or two, we found a wiggly line in the · stone. What, we asked, was this. This turned out to be the :remains of a trilobite. The .trilobites, our robber of prehistoric graveyards, told us, were crustacea, like crabs, and have been extinct since the Permian. All of 300,000,000 years a:go, we asked~ Just about, Martin said. But the trilobites are un- common after the Duvonian, 430,- 000,000 years ago, plus or minus. Fine, we said. Now we know that this stuff is somewhere be- tween three and six hundred mil- lion years old. But how do you know that . the Ordovician lasted Olle hundred and thirty million years and not a hundred and fifty or only an even hundred? Dav-idson Goes to Amherst as Coach: And as we· slid down upper class walk, . revived and re:&reshed by the clear cool' . morning air, we pond- ered on our newly acquired knowl- edge. Gosh, what antiques they keep up in Bailey hall. Parks or Nistad Proba~le Replacement 'PARKING p:ea. Two men are under con-1? sideration for the position of I President of Union College, ' vacated by Carter Davidson, : A.B., A.M., Ph.D .. LL:D., Litt., D., L.H.D., P.D.Q., yesterday. Dr. Davidson\; announcement' of his acceptance of the posi- tion of line coach at Amherst has thrown the entire student body into a turmoil. Most fre- quently mentioned , for the i position of president'are Fred Parks, A.B., D.S.G., and Peter John Nistad, B.S. in Ed., M.A.· in Phys. Ed., F.B.C., accord- ing to Walter G. Baker, Presi-l dent of the Board of Trustees. Davidson had been communicat-j ing with the Lord Jeffs, for about · eight days before . Chaplain Brown announced his departure in chapel yesterday. It is believed that' Davidson first applied for the post i1;1 a telephone call last Sunday, although Mr . . Baker had received no official notice from him. On Tuesday, Baker received a letter from an undisclosed <>ource FACULTY \' \' n STAFF ONLY also applying for the Amherst ADVERTISEl\IENT . · position, asking if he could use If you, dear member of t11e fac- him as a reference. He also said ulty or staff, really want to enjoy in the letter that l:te understood · the difficult task of obeying the that Carter Davidson was the lead- · rules and regulations of the col- ing candidate for the .Amherst job . . lege see us. Yes, the PARH.WEL- If Davidson received the appoint- LAND · copUL CO. INC. will at ment, the letter writer asked to be ·very low rates provide you with the I. considered as an applicant for the · necl!ssary implements and aids to position vacated by Davidson. make parking really safe. Our I With the loss of Carter David- beautiful and charming instructors · son, the entire student body is recruited from Skidless and , Was- ' . wondering ~0 will coach next . sor will aid you in this matter . See · year's SKI · TEAM! us soon.

Page · Eight April · 1, 195() . For Women (Because) EmollientBringsBeJou;-·ChinBeauty, _e· i' · All women are sisters under the ~ : LJ1 .A skin and they all react in much the skin is a rich cream abundant in ~ · 'CJI Cat Jt same way, when paid , .. a com~ fine ojls. . plhnent. It's like music to a girl's If you've neglected this part of · By Ime E. Maysheated -ears to be called. beautiful. the · figure, ~nd ' the skirt is dry and . Several new recipes have come to · our attention which BEA1JTY begms at the base . of ct:eep _ y-lookmg fr.om war~ hea~ · have been tried en husbands by Hew'ly:weds and · ldt\ the neck. It may not be any fault clothing and furs, try usmg th1s · 'th · I W . 0 lf!lers of hers that she looks scrawny, but emollient cream faithfully before . W.l · equa SUCCeSS. · e · p_resent the~ here JOl' USe .as giVen why go around looking like a bag 1etiring. or to serve as meal suggestiOns · for Umonites. of bones when she can be . as For the name of the eruol- Pig's Knuckles ~ ~------- wholesome as the girl next door. lient cream for filling hollows Take a pig. Almost any pig wm AI)VER'TISEMENT Everybody admires firm should- and · softning the skin phone the . do, but the · dish will be more suc- ers and below the chin loveliness. Woman's Page Wve $4-3000 or · pulent if the pig is less than 25 And created especially for soften- I write Ruth· Muddlegee the years old. Examine the pig care- ing and fil,ling out qry, parched editJor fO!' a .personal reply. ; fully 'before using, making sure -- · -- ·- - --~ - - --·- ---- - -- -- ... --- . that the knuckles ?.re tender and The Correct· Thing By SEMA RONii..E not bony. Bony knuckles often cause · bad accidents . when eating. Remove the knuckles · carefully :. from the r.est of the .pig, being sure that none of the knuckles are left . behind. Cook them in the · bottom 1 '/'M:»-'-\·' •·• ,.,, · ' \' •. ,, of a double boiler at a heat of . , .. .. r ;>· ~···•~-·~· 1 ••'''\<\;· < , ,· < • . . , ' ~~;t~a6: ::g~~::~rJ::. :s\t o . f/!~ J GENTLEMAN RAISES-When a ht.dy comes to pour him a cup of coffee, the gentleman raises the cup to meet the stream of liquid. Under ordinary circwnstanc-es tb.e gentleman should rise to . meet the occasion and the lady. However in some instances the gentleman may find it impossible to do so. In this case, when the lady with the low ... cut dress comes to bend over and pour him a cu,p, the gentleman !lhould smile and lOClk at the floor. · DON'T BE A TOOL BUY OUR HAMMERS-MADE OF VIRGIN WOOD Never Been Banged Before e HARDWARE • · David Mahoney Company 209 State Street Phone 3-3691 ' 129 S. ' Brandywine Ave. Phone 3·3692 FEET SMELL? Cover them up with shoes . . Patton & Hall · 245 State Street Don't Be HALF-SAFE! Try 'WHEW' the beforehand deodorant 'Vl.HEW'-the poor ~an's Airwick Jacob's Pharmacy Corner Nott cand Carrie longer of any us~ Sassiety Tidbits By Jma HE'artbunt . Theo news has flnally broken! Theo pppular young socialite , Miss Mar- . ga-ret Wright. is to be married Sat- ' urday, April Fool's Day . The lucky man i's Edward C. Williamson, Un ' ion '49, cif RidgeV.·ood . N'. J. The eongagement has · been bruited about , . for several weeks. Williamson is a member of Delta Phi frateomity. Also scheduled for a trip to the I altar is Miss Lois Rudmann, who 1 received a solitare over the week- end from Walter '•Swede\ Handson, member of D Phi. ---01--- NOTICE Publicity director of the Monkey- ban}ts, Anne Laycock, announced tod,ay that <Jarter's Croonilig Q~t will sing \Come · Now to The Campus\ at the Daily Kultur Ses~ion next Wednesday. TRY CARTER'S LITTLE LOVER PILLS \A Little Lover Goes a Long Way'' Lange & Rapp Cor. State - Nott Terrace Clarence L. Eowbender, noted financier and haberdasher, bas switched to Kal:verts. Mr. Bow- bender remarked- recently, when approached by a. ·Pillk eleph~t, \Kalvertsh hash. that dishting . • • dishitsh . . • . distig . • • that outshtanding :flavor . that givesh me a great li1t. Onest it lifted me right out of the bar.\ . Mr. Bow'bender was shot, er pboto- graphe<J. in a clla.:ra.cteristic position. . L. G. BAlFDIJR 00. BADGES • RINGS- FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHEB GIFI'S STATIONERY - PROGRA.MS CLUB PINS - KETS MEDAI.S - ~&O~Jims Write or ~I CARL SORENSEN SO Muriay Ave, Water.fo.i'd, N.Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMs 8-$28 THE PARKHER PEN • • • • ·' The PEN with a PLAN - PARKHER! A Full l7 yee~r supply of ink. Just strap the three foot fountain pen to your bcick. ALSO SEE THE LADY GODIVA WATCH · • .. . A ·simple watch with plain lin9 -the nude look. JAY JEWELRY Corner State and Center Streets Apr H - G ' Un lia:l men ball state toga men after TI by tl boxe Eacl f ::t\~:}) t i·;· : .:.\J his J cula ture was coac ful: Bro• Fe the men He trict ball a ted -

ers ld 1S v- m tt, t g :~.t ;h ld :r. o- ic r. es April · 1, 195'0 I Page Nine Stickmen Open With Yale Hal Wittner · Given Fete ·Season Begins Tuesday; : ~Prexy on Coach . Tentative Lineup Given There h=rc:e:!· 1 :: or two · · . · h . . points of misunderstanding abeut After four weeks of practice m Alumm gym, t e 32 mem- . Mr. MeLaughry's going to Amherst Union College athletic director, bers of Coach ViC Star . zenski's : var$ity lacrosse team have : as football coach . In the first place, lia:l 'Wittner, was one '\ 1>f the four begun outdoor practice, with only a week to prepare beforei.rt should be made clear that the men honored, · as some 80 basket- h · d: b A h t ba . - 11 off 1 ·c'als 1 and coaches f.rom . up- they open their season next Tuesday against Yale's lacrosse apprpac was ma e . Y m e:s - • . F' ld · : and not by McLaughry. They m- state New Y01;k gathered ·in Sara- squad on Library le • vited him to come over for an in- toga to pay tribute to the o}der THE GARNET stickmen will $ terview without any letter of appll- men in the profession last Sunday . play two games over the Easter F T k S t cation from him. The story about afternoon. vacation, a regularly schedulec,l con- our ' ' rae po 's his candidacy appeared in one of THE PROGB:AM was fe~tured test with Coach Bill Harkness' Yale : the Boston newspapers as a sports by the presentation of table Cl _ g~ret ' stickmen, and a scrimmage contest Sti.ll w.·de Open ' writer's hunch. It was on the boxes•to the f«?ur veteran offiC!~ls. · at Springfield, Massachusetts ; with ' · · : · : basis of this news story that an- Each also rece1ved a scroll · bearmg the Springfield College ten on April Although faced,. with one . of the . other candidate wrote to Mr. Witt- : 5. These two foes have been re - biggest turnouts in recent years, · ner asking him about the opening cently added to the lacrosse sched- track coach \Bill Ketz is still on the · here. ule, and were not on the or.iginal lookout for a quarter miler, an- · 1 In the second place, McLaughry ~chedule set for tl1e Star-men. other pole vaulter, sprinters and inform e d me that he had been in- . · · . This year's · squad, 32 :;trong, is hurdlers . There a r e ho.wever many 1 vited to come over to Amherst for · . made up of 15 midfield men, 6 de- 1 1 1ikely loo'l\ing pro s pects among the an interview on the same day that . ' fens?men, 7 attackmen . and 4 39 candidates for the team. I he was i~vited. I assumt;d that he · goa!Ies_. There ~re 11 se~10rs a?d 1 l\IANY OF last year's men have 1 ha _ d a~so mformed Mr. Wittner, but 11. JUniors on t~Is seasons vars1ty returned looking greatly improved. I th1s did not take place for another shck-team, wh1le . there are 10 Such is the case with two miler 1 day or two. All of us who have sop~omores from the 1949 frosh Abe Lakshin and low hurdler Sig 1 watched the team work under lac1 osse squad. Ten members of Giambruno. According to Coach 1 McLaughry feel that he has done a the team have had v~rsity basket- K.etz, ' 'Lakshin is in better shape I splendid _ job here an~ will make . an ball or :football expen e nce. than any one else on the team. outstandmg record m the profes- COAGH Starzenski has a well Other men who are looking well sion . In appointing Mr . Hammer- balanced squad this year , . featured are New . t Culver in the mile and stro~ to succeed him, we feel tbat hy the preponderance of candidates · half mile and Bob M · cQueen in the I we have secured a man of the sa111e with ex:p . erience in football. His hurdles. · calibre in coaching ability, who, in main p:oblem is to secure a goali_e, . The field event outlook is fairly additio~, is a U~ion ~lumnu_s and who Will be a strong defender m bright \lith Captain Art Hager, would .. like .to build h1mself mto a the nets. At present there are four Don Wilsey, Frank Grabski and l'ong bme career at the College. I candidates for goalie, all with little John Dvorsak all rounding into know every member of the squad or no experience. shape nicely. and of the student bady will give With four weeks of indoor prac- liammerstrom every possible sup- tice completed, a tentative lineup port. Hal Wittner has been drawn up; and although it water Courses Given ~ may be revised, it is believed that Cordially yours, Carter Davidson his photogr{l.ph, . and these · were Cir- . the following stickmen will start culated among the guests for signa- against · Yale. The attack will ibe tures. Outstanding on the program led . by co-captain~:; Jerry Rost and was an address by Frank Maguire, Tom Quinlan, with the c;~apable as- coach of this year's highly success- sistance of soph Herb Hufnagel . . ful St. John's University quintet of THE MIDmLD will have vet- Brooklyn. erans Norm Carr and.Walt Causey, For Wittner, the event :ptarked along with newcomer Dick Davis. the completion of 28 years as a The Defense will be ' featured by member of the Adirondack Board. four year man Burt Napear, Bob He is a, past president of the Dis- Hass and Art Arcand. Bill Greve trict Board of Basketball and Foot- is given the edge in the nets, but is ball officials. Hal has l;leen associ- being pressed by · Marty O'Meara ated with Union College since 1922, and Ted Fryer . • HAS YOUR GIRL ~OST. HER SHAPE? Bring her to - William H. Plath Service Station Complete Chassis Job Rear Ends Fixed and Bumpers Adiusted 601 UNION STREET In the Dark ? ? ' Know a ·Bulb Snatcher ? ? Select from a full stock of .bur.ned out bulbs Effevescent Lamps Save Supply Co. 501 ~TATE . ST . REET Phone 6·4193 .................. ,.,.. ..... • 1n your slack time choose your Spring slacks a :t _ · ~ ! () A class in Senior Life Saving and Water Safety Instructor willrbe given at Foote Memorial Pool every afternoon at 4 P.M. under the direction of swpnming coach Ray Mullane. Coach Mul- lane emphasizes that these courses are very helpful in ob- taining summer employment. Another class for non swim- mers or poor swimmers will also be given every afternoon at 4:80P.M. Not+ Terrdce Restaurant & Bar - ' EAT. DRINK, and BE BURIED! Our Beer has never lost ifs touch - from the cradle to the grave. SATURDAY, APRIL 1-Spring Re- cess J;!egins at Noon. MONDAY, APRIL 10-Classes Re- sum~. SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Compl_ete Heed to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Near FERRY SENIORS ! ! Unlimited Job Opportunities With. FREDDIES FORGERS print your way to success ••• young men, willing to travel • . • • fast Sche · nectady Engraving Co.

Page Ten TH . E WORD by ...._ __ JACK WEISS ..... . _ __, Each time I walk -ln Chapel, find important men .staring at me from the walls. However, as color- '51 Stick Coach? ' April ' I, 1950 F ~ ive Returnees Amo:ng 27 Go ; lf · ream Hopefuls Twenty..;seven men turned out for the initial meeting of . the golf team :last Tuesday afternoon in the trophy room of the gym. IncJuded . .among these were five . freshmen candi- dates .• COACH Clare Graves faces a~-------~------­ ful as they arc> , they lack the .por- trait of the most important man uf uJI · Coach Johh 1\l~Laughry. . major task · in getting- a squad to- : gcthcr for . the first match April 28, · against a strong Rochester team. 1 It will he some time ·before the : . 1 facilities at the Ed · ison Club will those · returnees are Captain Ben Swan, Allan Doyle, Scot Jackson, Joe Mendelson and Warren Frost. The remaining spots will be de- cided as soon as possible in a seventy-two hole, double round tournament, in Vihich · both medal and match scores will be recorded. In his · appreci- ated short stay at Union, • he has de- veloped athletes, molded these - men into a victorious football ,.machine 1 but greater yet, he has established an eternal friendship with every . person who has had the pleasure of knowing him. Fred Bronner Losing John was inevitable, but . -----------~--­ such fine athletes as Abba, Fletcher, Jackson, and Speidel. would \like? I Bronner Rumored to have played thetr last year under the hardened giant of regula- For Lacross·e· Post· tion. We know how muclh the alumni appreciated hlm, but the · . . alumni didn't · realize how much we · N_ow that VIC Starzensk1 has bee? likt>d him. When John leaves, part let~mg everybody know th't he s . f h . b ... of Uru'on and alii gomg to get away from these o JS oys, pai.. , \d d · \ b · · f best wishes leave with him. a~ned col. WJ~te:s. Y retlrmg 0 our . . to his farm m V1rgima next year, We know the shoes he -IS steppmg 1 the quest bas begun for a new into at Amherst will be more th~n lacrosse coach. · filled. Howc>vcr, he hn~ lt>ft a big . , empty space of cleats on Alumni On the tip of the speculators Field. Those lonesome shoes have tongues has been the name o-f F~ed q · ed a new mentality as of last Bronner, noted sports _authority ~~t~~~ay. The man is sam Ham- and sports lov~r. It 'is agree? ~at . merstrom. Bronner certamly could do JUstice . f t tall . to the sport. He is a man about SIX ee · , reserved, modest, and tactful in When asked for a. comment . on handling men. Len Klingberg, re- ~he ru~or, Bronner simply replied, cently of Union, had this tp say Nuts. when I asked him about John Me- SAM HA.:MMERSTROni, new Laughry and Sam H:ammerstrom. football coach, would undoubtedly \They are so much alike that you enthusiastically support Bronner · would think they were the same for the lacrosse position as his foot- ' person.\ ball players would then no longer If Sam Hammerstrom's I'ecord is have· a,.y tr01,1:ble with lacrosse to portray his ability then there 1 pla~ers · getti_ng in t~eir way during is actual proof that he is the man · ~prmg p~acbce. It IS .prQbable that to replace John. While in high If ~redd1e w~re named, ?e woul~ school circles he ha. sgiven James- abolish the damn stupid sport town a strbtg of victories. The within a week and watch his be- people of Jamestown like locing . loved football players practice for their . coach about as much as we the rest of the year. like losing John. Many people have voiced opinion.s about the situation and the word is, according to: Hal Wittner: \I want to welcome Sam back home. He always told me there were two places he wanted to . coach, Union and James• town. Now that he has the oppor- tunity to fulfill his ambition he in- tends to do so. Sam said that he would do his very best in relation to what has been required of him.\ Art Lawrei:Jce: \!\have the great- est confidence that Sam Hammer- strom has all the necessary re- quisites to do a commendable job at Union. GAZETTE HQT GEMSl ! Imported · from Sing-Sing Maurice B. Graubart , & Sons • Jewelers Serving time since 191 J ~ 166 JAY STREET PRESS Printers I he a\•ailable to the golfers because of the wet spring. Union will · main- tain the same relations with the Club as they have in the past; any member of the squad may play free of charge during the week up untii the final cut is made before . the first mat<;)h if they obtain a slip for , that day · from Hal Wittner. At the present time . only .thre¢ positions are secure on the varsity, with three more places still avail~ able to the upperclass candidates. Only five men are back from last year's team and there is am:gle op- portunity for varsity positions on the twelve man team, which usually carries .three freshmen. -(\.mong THERE REMAINS t:P,e question of whether or not Union wiU ad- here to the old rules · Or the inter- collegiate rules in playing their matches. A rough eight match schedUle has been arrang,ed, with t~o matches scheduled . per wee~ except for Prom Week. R.P.I. a,p- pears to be the only soft touch on the schetlule. Freshmen and upper- class cari.didates have been advised to watch the bulletin · board in the gym and · listep for chapel notices concerning the opening of facilities at the Edison Club, The Rebel Grill is one of the favor- ite on-the-campus ha11.nts of students at the Universit~ of Mississippi. That's because the Rel;lel Grill is a friendly place, always full of the busy atmosphere of college life. There is always plenty of ice-cold Coca•Cola, too. For here, as in col~ lege gathering spots everywhere-- Coke belongs. Ask for it .either way .•. hoth trade-marks mean the sam!! thing. 80ffiED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SCHENll:CTADY COOA-f'OLA BOTTLING COMPANY © 1950, The Coca-Cola Company ,, April p( ·Ct B1 . . !an: · sess s whi ' ch How crushe see · f.r their be she AH, standf Nowl: a des! I wjll seizes 'brace. spell i away, str . ug~ laugh me, . bl he tw he if weake til he e~:~,Sy; chant : Wh• ~ • I

iO of of li- en m, st. le- a nd lal ld. on Ld- lr- 3ir ch . th e~ Lp- on ~r­ ed he ~es ies ;~ : · :i~li~ .:::~ tii!@! 1 ;,;;;§ . r : . ~ ·r- .ts >i. a 1e : e. ld >l~ . April I, 1950 Page Eleven Poor Fools ·Captured By Charm i am not beautiful ; . and yet I pos- sess some . strangely subt.Je charm whi ' ch lures them on-poor foQls! · How many have I lur.ed and crushed, I know noL They might see · from the fate of others what their fate will be-,}}ut th.ey must ·· be shown. Something For the Boys : AH, SEE. One draws near. He stands there, gaping with curiosity. Now he comes closer, incensed with a desire to sip honey from my lips . I will entjce hlm! With a rush he seizes me in a lingering, fat:;tl, em- brace. 'Now he lifts his head. The spell is 'brqken. He tries to draw away, but he cannot. Now he · struggles and curses · me, but t laugh irt his face. He strikies at me, ' but I seize his hand. In t!lrror, he turns to flee, but it is too late- he is mine. .1\.nd so, growing · weaker,. he sinks closer, closer un- til h.e fairly presses me, for it is so ei:!,Sy just to lie there. And I, En- . chanti'ess, . see another victim. Who .am I? A . piece of fly paper. Uniop. sportlovers, stripped to the waist for their monthly games, await t.he cry of \Leth go!\ The above pictured new sport, carried on in the form of a relay, was . originated by a man named Kinthey, and is now coming into its own at Union • I BUY YOUR ARROW White Shirts ~ Now! We ~ave a fine selediop right npw. Your favorite ARROW shirts in the collar styles you like-inClud- ing widespreads with French . cuffs, and Gordon button down oxfords. Every shirt Mitoga cut for better fit. See our new Arrow ties, too. $1 up. ,, .. . NUSBAUM'S 447-451 STATE STREET , . . ON CAMPUS ORAT HOME- .. You ' 'll Want Arrow Whites for·· Easter No matter which suit you wear~~m ARROW white shirt will set it off right! They're crisp white, impeccably tailored of fine fabrics and come in a variety of good looking, perfect fitting Arrow collars. · 33.65 up ARROw SHIRTS & TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS . ..



· ' · .. Around Tou'n · 13~ . JAMES BRYSON · · Concerning Schenectady · weather: . **!@&?&@!!The local' Chamber of Cominerce seems to have Uttle con- troi over the town's most unat- tmctive featw·e. Neither bas any · . .. • Founded at Union Col · lege in 18'17 faction of any political . group taken -----------------------------------:----------------------------------------------------- up the cry to foster sunshine in ' Vol. 71, No. 2.)- SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1950 PRICE 10 CENTS Schenectady. ~---------·~---~------r-~------------~------~----------------------------------------------------------------- · :f. :[. :[. Schenectady seems to 'be in a TI.ppec · anoe · · . continual state of unrest. The point .. · · . ' ' . : of disput harks back to last iN~- Cl~~!s~!~~t!?~icers · Prom Offers Chance ' : To v~mber. The local minority party p T is dissatisfied with its leaders, ap- . . . rexy · 00 patently; the majority alieged lead ·e rs are · displeased with current office-holders. It is rumored that . A · p· _ . ri•l 16th · membership in political organiza- will take place on Monday and Tuesday, May 1 and 2, . in Silli- man hall. Nominating petitions .. F F . d. F t t. :::~; ~ti:~t~:::~fi!: 0 Tro~e~:: . ree reu - Ian . . rU : S ra I ODS day, April 24 to Thursday, Apru · .. - 27. All petitions must be filed by tions will no longer be a sign of ' · anything, just an indication of . vacying senses of humor. Many important campi,ls prob- , lems will be discuss!l<;l. by student :f. :f. :f. and faculty repre~entatives at the The Milha.wk Indians, the truly . annual Tippecanoe Conference to 1 local :reactionary group, is looldng · be lleld Sunday afternoon at 2:30. for lodges in the Mohawk Valley. . . - 4:30 p ; m. on Thursday. 1 Monday, May I, the chapel - nsu · r · an · · ce program will be devoted to in- · . · · . . · . traducing those running for office. Th,e chapel · p , rogram on p · la · n · . OK ' ed Thbrsday, Friday and Monday, · May 4, 5, and 8, will be devoted · to introducing the candida1;es. · Carpe Diem~enjoy the present-has been selected as the theme for the Junior Prom May 5, prom chairman Edwin Wheeler announced this week. The expression is taken from the Odes of Horace (in Lati:n) where the thought is \Envious time is fleeting; enjoy the present, put little hope in tomor- row.\ Ralph Flanagan, featured prom maestro, could not be contacted fol' modern interpretation of the classical theme. TheY, moved from their family CONDU?TE!» each year. to air homesteads in protest to enc:roach- · controversial 1ssues reg3;rdmg the .ments upon life · and properlY about , coll~ge, . the YMCA; cabm . at the 300 years ago. From the Iroquois rustle· T1ppecaiJ.oe c1te prov1des the reserve in · Quebec the chief has r~ght a.tmosp~ere .for the infor;nal .. issued a plea for news of vacant d1scuss1on wh1ch IS encouraged. It tepees · tn the valley. was at such a · conference that the The Schenectady Blue Jays will roll · into - town next week, expecting to cop the class C Can-Am League pennant. The squad will be staffed largely with clas~ A and B players idea for a student rathskeller was first suggested. Students . representing e v e r y phase of college activities have been invited to attend the confer- ence along with student cot~ncil members and · about 40 envoys from the facuity and administrative . staff. AMONG the topics on the agenda The Algonquin Sporting Club is for the conferenre are the new planning. a sports theater- on the dormitory, including the adequacy ~Albany road. Equipped with a, roll- ef the m~il . syste~ and the plan away :wof, the theater will accom- of meal serviC~; s1z~ of college en- '.modate boxing, wrestling, bask_et- · :onment, rea~1~g w~th room rent ball, hockey, circuses, sports shows mcreases, tu1t1on . . mcreases an~ of all sorts conventions and sym- number of fratermbes on campus , phonic cortcer~. It is ~lanned to the course set-up, concerning the start construction this summer; advantages to one-year, two-term About 7 500 persons will be seated. and four-term systems; the possi- ~ ' bility of an upperlass lounge and :f. :f. ¥- the prospective use of the Hale • H6use llafeteria; and chapel pro- Louis Prima, probably the coun- grams including the idea , of as- try ' s top novelty and dance band, signed' seats and proposed time will be at Proctor's theater next changes. • Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thurs- ALSO SLATED for discussion day. :f. :f. :f. are the new field house, the use of Mrs. Perkin's garden by the rath- England's top film of 1948-49, skeller, the continuation of a \Spring in Park Lane\ is being winter prom or oth'er winter social- shown at the Rivoli theater under . event, changes in the college the sponsorship of the First Dutch calendar and fire regulations about Reformed Church. A musical com- the camplV!. edy, it broke attendance records in several New York movie palaces on its first stateside run. Proceeds from tickets at $.65 will go to the rebuilding fund of the church. Two shows nightly, 7 and 9:30 p.m. - - -- .. a - - · Swenson, Shnurer Win AlEE Prizes Student council representa- . tives will ' be nominated during 1 .that s!lme week, but their peti- . tions may bt> filed as late as Tuesday, May 3, at 4:30 p.m. • Council . elections will take . rlace on Tuesday and Wednes- day, May 9 and 10, at ~illiman hall. The new student council w : U meP.t May 17. Frosh Meals Discussed Pla . ns for establishing and de- veloping a class reunion fund were presented to members of the Class of 1950 by Mr. Harold M. Van de Cl).r at a meeting held in Old Chapel Wednesday noon. Nothing comparable to the . plan, which · would be a savings account for the class in the forin of insurance policies, has been tried before at Union College. ' Through the plan the class can accumulate a fund which could be used for the gift to be presented at the 20th or 25th class reunion. The Student Council recom- mended to the administration that THE OUTLINE of the plan pre- freshmen be not required to pay sented is essentially this. Five for , or eat aU meals in Hale House members of the senior class would or in the Dining room in the new be selected by the class; life in- freshman dorm. This enced 8 surance contracts would be ob- lonr discussion r·n the subject tained on these men, the face value which was spealheaded by George of each policy to be $5,000, or a Hendon. Hendon's motion that tota:l. of $25,000. As the type . of there be a regular board pill for policy suggested is a 25 payment all first term fresh, was defeated . life policy, the policies would be IN OTHER action taken r t the paid up after premium deposits last meeting on March 28, the ap- were made for 25 years. pointments of Jack Fischel as .Assuming each of the 5 men in- chairman . of the Tax committee, of sured are 22 years old, the total William Delaney as chairman of premium would be $653.75 a year. the General Activities committee, Annual dividends on the policies and C•f John DeBello as chairman woul~J. . be allowed to accumulate. of the Incorporaticn committee EACH MEMBER of the class · we1 e confirmed. The nomination would be asked to contribute $3.00 of James Kilburn as chairman of a year during the period the in- the 9ampus Chest committee was surance is in force, 20 or 25 years, tabled for further considerafion. depending at which reunioll- the · It was also decided that the class decides to present its ~ift. A \Gamet\ would not be given to minimum of 220 men participating frcEhmen. Through a m(: ·v e by would be required under this plan . George Hendcn it was decided that At the end of 20 years the total the freshman record Qe made· cash value of the policies, plus ac- essentially a freshman year-book. cumulated dividends would be The funds that will be saved' by $14,297.75; at the end of 25 years, not giving \Garnets\' to the fresh $18 46 5 Arthur Swenson and Florian will be used for the new freshman · ' 8 · 2 · Shnurer were selected at the sec- record. Freshman n:ay, however, IF ANY one of the five insured Margaret Webster's barnstorming Shakespeareans will be in ' Schenec- tady Friday, April 28, to present \'~he Tamjng of the Shrew.\ Tickets sell from $2.40 to $1.20, and are . on sale in Bailey hall 1()5 or 1~ N.S . , S.C., by V. C. De Baun. Rave notices galore have accom- panied the troup around the coun- try. :(. :[. :[. CINEMA ATTRACTIONS: State - \Bagdad in technicolor, with Maureen O'Hara. Co-feature with Robert Montgomery and Ann Blyth, \Once More, My Darling.'' Proctor's - Dana\ Andrews and Susrun :m..yw{tr(} W. \My Fooll~h Heart.\ Co-feature is mutiny ~m a man-'o-war, \Tyrant of the Sea.\ and session eof the AlEE Prize buy copies of the \Garnet\ if they members of the class should die Paper meetings to represent Union desire. before the policies are surrendered, College at the Northeastern Dis- 0 the full face value of one policy trict Meeting of the AIEE April\ p • D Ch \ would be paid to the Cla.fls-the 28 at Providence: R .• ~· Swens?n . flZe ay aJ;lge beneficiaries of all the policies pr.es.?nted a pape1 on The T~e1 e- Union College Prize Day, , at woulc;l be the Class of 1950. .~m ?-nd Shn~rer. a ,papel on which prize awards to students S,re The office of financial develop- Tranljl~tor Apphcatwn~. . given, and awards for campus ac- ment would act as the trustee for The JUdges were Professor F. tivities are made, will be held in the class, - collecting th ' e monies and w. Grover., professo1· emeritus in Memorial Chapel at the college on paying the premiums on the electrical engineering; Mr . D. $. Wednesday, , May 3, instead of on policies. · Garr, General Electric General · May 5, as previously announced, This insurance plan, although not Engineering lab; and Mr. C. C. Dr. Carter Davidson president of tried at Union before, is not a new Herskind, General Electric Power Union College, announced today. idea. A similar plan ·has been used · Rectifier divisic•n. · Aware's of I The ceremonies will be held at 11 at Princeton University since 1916 $10.00 ~ach were presented to the a.m., and classes scheduled for · that and by the class of 1924 at Vassar two wmners by Pr.ofessor Grover. hour wiU be cancelled. College. Local U .Eo Official To Speak Erie_ May 5 & 6, Monty · Woolley Leo Jandreau, busiress agent of thE' t1nion signed its first labor con- in \The Man Who Came to Local SOl of the United Electrical tract with the American Locom<:~ Ralph Flanagan Jazz Concert Date Fixed ~ The third annual jazz concert. of the Union College Dance Band, scheduled for May 6 in Memorial Chapel, will be the climax a three years of musical . progress at Union · for Art Aguello, the orchestra's Ieacer. WITH THE possibility of dis- solving after the graduation this June of Agnello and many of the band's key members, an ambitious program has been arranged, in- cluding a concert at Skidmore two days prior to the band's final ap- pearance at Unic·n. The overwhelming success of the jazz concerts of the last two year!'; and the enthusiasm' with which the May 6 event is anticipated by area jazz circles have been pointed to as ample support of Agnello's contention that jazz deserves an ever-larger place in America's con- cert halls. HELEN LYNN has been an- nounced as vocalist for this year's concert, despite her expected motherhood. The program will in- clude several arrangements by Roy McArthur, assisted by Fred Pratt. Both are Union alumni. Other members of the band. are: Saxophones: AI Kaye, Bill May - nard, Gabe DeSerbo, and Nat Allan; trumpets: Ed \Morris Larry Gray, Ken MacDonald, and Fred Rapant; trombones : Dave Fithian, Att StQclunan, and of course Ag- nello, himself; and the rhythm sec- tion finds Joe Gabriels on the drums, Pete Krazt on the electric guitar, and Bill Austin on the bass. ---a Dinner.\ Naturally, no · Union Workers will speak Mond~y April : tive Company. man will be going to the Friday 17, at 7:30 p.b. at a meE>ting of the . During the war, Mr. Jandreau Student p · roctors · night performance, since it con- Eyonomics Club in rcom 22 of the 1 was chairman of the local draft · fiicts with Carpe Diem. E.E. building. board, a member of .the War Man- N d d N t y Colonel (Central Ave., . Albany) - THE . WEEK before the spring power Commission, and the Con- · ee e ex ear The much publicized \Tight Little recess Mr. Frank Kriss, president solidated Wn Courcil of Sche>nec- Dr. Carl A. Niemeyer, head Island.\ Cheers. of the Schenectady local ·C·f the In- tady . He is also general vice- proctor, has announced that the ---o ternational Electrical Workers president of the United Electrical college will continue its system of F h C I spoke. These lectures, by Kriss Workers, the president of the UE student dormitory proctors next rene · ounse Of and Jandreau, are the first in a locals in upper New York State, year . To Hollo · . r Balzac series of talks that the Economic and a seni-c·r member of the Na- SOME nine or ten men will be Club plans to 'present on currert tiona! Negotiating Committee. · needed as proctors in North and M. Re~~ de Messieres, Culture! controversial issues. Talks sched- AT PRESENT, the Schenectady · South Colleges and the new fresh- Counselol' of the French Embassy, uled for- the . future -include promin- electrical workers have not voted man dormitory. In return for see- will g jve a public lecture on ent politicians and businessmen in favo . r of either union. There ing that college rules · are observed TICKETS for Carpe Diem :;o on sale early next week. Hawkers will be in e>very fraternity house and dormitory selling admissions at $7.20. Stuart McAllister, in charge of ticket distribution, has stated regret that tickets can not be cast about in wild abandon, in · true Epicurean style, but a grin will close every sale. No treatment is guaranteed fc·r tickets purchased in the Student Activities office or the student store. Attendance will be limited to 500 couples. S. C. GIAMBRUNO publicity · chairman, is completing arrange- ments for a national radio hook- up c•ver NBC to broadcast the cj.ance music. Local r · adio sta- tions will be featuring Ralph Flanagan discs for the next three weeks. J;ly way of commer: t, Stephen Fitz, of WSNY, said \I like to listen to Flanagan. He should be great for the prom. If a guy and his date aren't having a · good time, he ought to be nice to cance to, too.\ A SPECIAL chapel program will ' be presented in Monday daily chapel. Billed as \in good taste, but enjoyable,\ it is an experiment in departure from the zany non- sense that ha _ s characterized prom programs in the past. Included in the weekend pro- gram is the annual IFC sing. The contest is slated for Friday eve- ning before the prom. There will be no contest in fraterr.ity house decorations. MEMBERS of the prom commit- tee include: Edwin Wheeler, chair- man; Jack Fischel, band; Sigmund Giambruno, publicity; Gerald Parker, flowers; Stuart McAllister, tickets; Fred Winslow, program; Joseph Gardeski, arrangements, and Prof. H . C. Coffin, translator of theme title. --~ - ~a~--- IF C Urges Tax Payment The Inter-Fraternity Council ruled this week that any fraternity that fails to pay the 20 dollar tax that has been levied on all the fraternities at Union, by. Friday, April 21, will be up for suspension from the council. The tax was ap- proved last mon . th. with the final day of payment set at April 1st. This week's ruling extends the payment period and provides a penalty which the first ruling did not do. AFTER a discussion on the Mn- stitutionality of last month's tax measure the council interpreted the tax as cor.stitutional under the clause that states the IFC has the p.ower to promote the general wel- fare of the fraternities . The monies derived from the tax will be used to print a fraternity c•rientation booklet for incoming Freshmen. Honqre de Baiza<!' Monday ·evening who will discuss - other important has , however, been agitation and 'in the dormitories, the student at 8 in the Old Chapel. The lee- issues. I a court battle over the central of proctors will receive their rooms ' ture has been · ~trranged by the At the present time the IUE, and . the union local's funds. In the rent free . . Robert Wyllie, head of the Inter- Fraternity sing, announced that this year's contest will be held in Memorial Chapel April 6 at 8 : 15 · P.M. The council will award a trophy to the winner. College in view of the double the Ulll are fighting, in plPnts all only major c ,c •ntest between the Men eligible for the positions are Balzac anniv:ers?ry which is being ovei· the country, f-c•r control of. two unions, for the General Motors those who are now juniors and c widely observed in American col- the electrical workers. The Inter-: employees, the IUE won decisively. will be seniors in the fall. All who Glee Club oncer_ t leges and ur.iversitles this year, national Union . of Electi·ical Work- · The next majo!' election in the are interested should leave their · marking the centenary of the ers was founded by the CIO last I field is that of the Westinghouse names with either Dean Huntley or The Schenectady Alumni Associ- Frencl;l nov:elist's death and the November, iii an attempt · ta attract workers. Dr. Niemeyer. ation will present the Union Col- 150th anp.jversary of his birth. members from the Union Electrical -~--a----. a~-- lege Glee Club in a concert Satur- A SMALL exhibit of - Baizaciana Workers Union which was expelled LEO JAN})l(.J!:AU Room Rent Due day, April 29 at the Mohawk Golf drawn frcom the College Library from the CIO because of alleged Sherwood To Speak Room rent for the second half of club. The concert will be followed and the private collection of Pro- 'leftist leanings. The president and MR. JANDREAU worked a.t the Rev. Larmon S. Sherwood, '34, the current semester will be pay- by dancing. fessol' S. Paul Jones · is being orga:nizer of the IU Eis · James · Schenectady Ger.eral Electric plant will be guest prE)acher at tl;le regu- able at the business office b . etween Tickets may be purchased on shown in the Old Chapel ill<' con- Carey, former president and right from 1922 to 1937. In 1936 he Jar Sunday morning chapel service the dates, 1\.pril 10 and April 14, campus fi'om Professor Henry jtinction with\ M. de . Messieres' wing leader ·af\ the UE. Mr. Jan- brought the U.E. to the G.E . . plant, at 11 a,m, Rev. Sherwood hFs long inc.-during the hours of 8:30 a . m, Swanker or Mr. Harold M. Van de- lecture, Professor Jones gave a dreau has been very active in, t):le which won the Labor Board elec- been popular with students fc•r .....:12 noon and 1:00 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Car. Proceeds have traditionally talk on Balzac in daily assembly attempt to keep the electrical . tion for the right to represent the his humor and enthusiasm despite A late payment of $2.00 will be due been directed toward the scholar- yesterday, worke.rs in the UE; workers. In the following year,, blindness. after April 14. ~ ship fund. , I : . ' . .

' 2 .. FRIDAY,. AP!liL 14, 1?50 Oinurnr ·The Book Shelf For Your Information THE CHRISTlAN SIGNIFICANCE visible wOrld is ··c·nly 'tone area of OF KARL MARX . the Realm. of God. Setting the By Alexander Mille1· visible world i·n this perspective Reviewed by Ralph &eed does not mean that the main argu- \Up to a point it is as ·meaning- ~ent of ·Christianity with Marx- -less to ask, what is the Christian ism is over the .pTiority Of the answet· to Marxism as it is to ask, spirit or ic'ealisin over material·ism, what is the Christian arswer t<· for God is God of both, but it EucJ.id.\ This is a very loose docs mean that in the lar·ger .pet·- analogy, says :Mr. Miller, but I spective each human ·is t•f inestim-. FRIDAY, APRIL l4~Daily as- Thursday Musical Club Concet•t, sembly, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, :(11[0, 8:30 p.m.! ASME, EE 22, noon; Pre-Law club, English 8 p.m.; Faculty Men's Club, Hale reading rocm, 7:30 p.m.; ~and Hou_se, ·7:30 p.m. · \ rehearsal, Gym, 4:30 p.m. . FRIDAY, APRIL 21 - Daily as- \ SA1.'URDAY, APRI:Jj_~l5-Board of . sembl·y, D1•. E. A. Tidmarsb, MC, Directors, Alumni fund, Wells · noon; Internationai -Relations house; 9.:30 a.m.; Gl BILLS Club, English reac'ing room, 7:30 CLOSK TODAY; Lacrosse, Union p.m.; BPnd rehearsa.l, Qym, 4:30 Member Associated Col· leglate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National· Adver- tising. Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, !nc., College Publishers ·nepresentative, 420 Madi- ~on Ave., N. Y. C. Pub· llshed every Friday of the school year. Editorial Office, Washburn Han; Union College, Pub· llcation Offir<>, The Ga- zette Press, 33\4 State St. Entered in the Srheilec· tndy Post Office as See· and Class lllail Matt~r. suhsrr.iption lOr a copy: $3 year delivered any- where in the United States. . thih<k that it illustrates. at least abtc worth, t where we do have a vs. WiHiams, Library field, 2:30: P\.m.; Biology Lecture, 200, 4 p.m., p.m.; Dance (UCCA), Gym 8: speaker; Dr. F. P. Ellinger, Naval p.tn .. ; ·Gle\e ·Club concert, Bric'~e-. Medical Research Institute, \T.!J.e port, Conn., Municipal audi- : Problem of Raqiosensitivity\; torium 8:30 p.m. Graduate Council <Ex. Gem.) SE!'ilfl!l BOARD WOI~FGANG RIF.:\1EH. .......................................... Etlitnr JAli!E;> BRYSO~ ............................. ,. ....... ks~odate l•:llitors DON CRE:GISR JAY COHN MARTI!'l SlECTf.~L ........................................•. Page Editors WILLAHD TAYL(,R WAYXE DA\'IS .......................................... !':~w\ F.<li.tor DO:>!ALD SCHWAlt1'Z .......................... , .......... >:ports E<litor ROBERT ;o.;A \'lAS ......................................... Photo E<litor LEON WEISBlJRGH .................................. Business ~lanager WILLIAM Tl!A YElL ............................... Cin·ulat<un !llauagor Jl'!'iiOR BOARD W ALTF.R TOWER .................................... -- ... CoJ>Y l•:Llitors RUBERT STRAND \ JERU~!E <;AHTNEH IR\'I:'(ll l;IA:'(•PLlcH... . ....... \\\ ... - ... E\chnn1:e E<litor BtiH.1'0~ GH.l'~l{Y ........................ A~si~tant Husiw:-ss :\1anage\'S LEO KUPEHSriD!ID AI,AN HAllACK IUCHAHD I'HILIPPS .. \ ........... \ .... Aesistnnt l'ir<'ulatinn \Tanagers REPORTERS John Cassidy, Dermut Dt>mis, .Arthu1· Gold, Donald Guertin, LE'o Hal~ ·loran. Euge_ne H·aJpert, Herbert Hiller, Jerome Kl~in, Marviu Kuhn, Tony Lane, Lawrence I~evine, \Villiarn 1\Iohrman_n, Calvin )lalinl-tn., David Palmer, Eric Sl'htnidt, Stephen Simons, David \\Veieher.t John \Veiss. l'EATURE STAFF Paul Carbone, Peter Fyfe, William llulzapfel, Alfred Kingon, \\'alter Levy, John :Mat·Dougal, John lloses, Hobert .Murray, Richard Nemeth,. Monroe S!lvermann, Robert Smith, Josef S. Tafel, John Von Jess, Dnvid Weart, Michael \Volfe. George \\'oo,!ruff PHOTO STAFF B nHNESS S1'Al-'F' Stephen Iii·own James DeHorbo. F'rederidt Devan, I-!yman Floren<·e, Jo:;eiJh Handler, Charles l..i.ttle, Daniel Siesel. ClltCl'LA 1'10!'1 STAFF Thonw.l::i Davenport, Henry DuL·at, H.ubert Grindley, George Hediugton, Horace YanVoast, \Vll11am \Vinl'he~tt'r, Hh:hard Young, Al ~alan. Let's Be Definite We must comment on the laxity of the administration in meeting the emergency caused by the recent manifestation of spring, to whit the tremendous .snow fall which has left every path on campus a morrass of mud and ankle deep snow. Just because it snows six inches worth very infrequently in the middle of April is no reason to pttt all of the shovels and plows away. We always thought that a liberal arts col- lege prepared one to meet all sorts of emergencies. Thursday evening found most throughfares on compus unfit for pedestrian modes of travel. What sort of authority must we appeal to in order to keep the walks clear? How high do we have to go'? We just dislike sending home for our overshoes. Yes, for a liberal education Education The proposed conference of faculty, administration and students at Tippecanoe appears to be an excellent annual pro- ject that the college would do well to continue to sponsor. That seems to be the general tendency. However we would like to see and hear definite statements to that effect coming from the college. Michigan Challenge P. DykPman Fyfe the modern vein allowed the club The concert given by the Uni- to particularly distinguished itself. versity of Michigan Glee Club last The enccr0s, a travesty on Rach- night in Memorial Chapel may well moninc.ff's C-sharp Prelude and serve as a challenge to the Union Clementine, were remarkable for Glee Club in that it was very well their originality of arrangement. attended, and as an encouragement Unhappily\ however, the soloists tc• them in that it was not so vastly during the first section and later superior as to merit this greater were not up the high standard of attendance. the club in general, and lacked THE El'IIPHASlS was definitely some control and distinctness of on the more popular type of music, articulation. but the th1ee serious ~ompositions FOLLOWING the intermission, a made thi;; listen<'r wish that they Gershwin, medley that featured the had at least included a Bach Nov<\lair\es Quartet evoked vast ap- c!horale to really demonstrate their plause from the audence as did abilities. As it was, the club shoWed a \Melange\ of Michigan me!r-dies Itself to be a well-balanced, well- which concluded with the Alma directed organization with great Mater. , talent for unusual arrangements. Perhaps we are overly critical, The first part of the program but it seemed a plateau-lik<' con- began with a c-r>llege hymn, Laude:s cert, ·Vei·y eVen in proficiency, yet atque Car·mina, remarkable chiefly never· reaching a peak or attempt- for its clear enunciation as were ing the sublimity we have come to all tl<le songs done by the group as expect. We had the impression a whole. Music by Hanc'el, Krieget· that it was as much a mlleting of and Schubert completed the tradi- · local Michigan alumni as a serious tiona! c•pening section of serious musical concert, and perhaps that music. Two songs by Palgren in is the way it should be. Letter Dear Mr. Editor: Th.is is a letter for your suggestion box. Let's change the .title of your fu·st page column from \Around the Town\ to \Banter and Bicker\ by Bryson. Or perhaps you should pu,t his column in the editorial page and put the editorials in his column. \ One finds it exceedingly difficult to disc-ern which is fact and what is fiction in this. particular column. We hope you will accept this as constructive criticism a.nd give the out-of-town students what they want. Sincerely yours, Clarence Giles PLACEMENT NEWS Men interested in a career in Our librarian advises that there merchandising should hear W .. V. are excellent opportunities in li- Alexander '39 at 4:30 on Monday, • April 17, 108 Bailey hall. Mr. Alex- briary science. All men interested ander will interview on Tuesday for in this field are invited to call on W. T. Grant Co. Mr. Webb to discuss the subject. MR. W. C. ROYN of the Albany IF YOU \HAVE company book- office of Westinghouse wil) inter-jlets from the placement office, will view on Aprtl 19, for E.E.'s only. you kindly retur.n them? part of his thesis. ·quarrel with Marx.ism), and that WHILE CHRISTIANS cannot , every human need is of the utmost accept Marxism as a comple~e urrency. In terms of this total philosophy, which it is c!a.imed to he, view it is nevertheless. through jus- they can. and ought to be aware of tice that love must fil,st be ex- its explanatory va<lue as a 13cientHic pressed, for \to speak of Jove· when sociclogy, says Miller. After pre- justice is not satisfied is to pros- senting the nla·in line of orthodox· titute the word as we have ·done Marxism, he pr•ints ··out that in t:v~'o · in our modern 'charity'.\ SUNDAY, APRIL 16 - Sunday. W~·att's, 7·:30 p;m. service, preacher the l,'iev. Cha:s, 1 The Registrar's office has an- Noble, MC, 11 a.m.; Organ .re- .nounced pre-registuation instrug\ cital, Dr. E .. A. Tidmarsh, MC, tl f th f' t 50 4 p.m.; Faculty-student confer- ons \ or · e irs semester, 19 - ence, Tippecanoe, 2:30 p.m. ,5l. main trends, the development of MILLER'S BOGK is, I think, Bdtish imperia'lism and American parHcul? rly cogent in its ability to capitalism, and the deeper . .ing eco- get around the usual stigma at- nomic crisis in the highly indus- \ached to Marxism and to· give it trialized countries of Europe, Marx some serious consic'.eration. As- and Engels were broadly right in suredly, many Cht·istians w>uld not their prophecy. The had pi~tured ugt ee with Miller's conclusiors nc·r the century since their time as with his concept of the state as an: some of developing capitalist crisis instrument of justice, Cnot of sal- and recurrent war. Fascism, the vation) . .My \·own opinion is t·hal possibi-lity of which is mentioned in we should take CO! nizance of what the Manifesto, is viewed as no Marx had to say if we wish to more than an .organized intensifica- understand .the historic processes, tion c·f capitaJ.ist crises speeding ·but that in an¥ ,paticular .analysis the ddve to war. we should be &>VI are that th•ere are lWONDAY, APRIL 17 _ Daily Schecules for the follmving stu- assembiy, Glee club, MC, noon; :den-ts will be made i.n the Regis- Placement discussion, Bailey hall, · tl'Rrs office and they need not •l'e, 108, 4:30 .p.m.; Philomathean so- .port unl'E!ss ·called: ciety, English reading room, 7:30 '(1( All civil .and electrical engi- p.m.; I:lalzac Anniversary Leclure neers GXCept present term 6. lin French}, OC, 8 p.m., speaker,. (2) Present term ·2 Physics\ M. Rene de Messiers, Cultmal:' majors. Counselor of the French Em-:. t3) Present term 2 BS in Chem- bassy; public invited, no cha;rge\;: istry majors, Alp)la Phi Omega, EE 16 , 8 p.in.; : All other studer.ts should report Economics club., E\ EZ 2 , 7 : 30 p.m.;·' for preparation of schedules' tc· American Assn. University ·their advisors as fol!O'I\S: Women, MC, 8 p.m., speaker, Ilka Why should Christians '\be in- many variables in the human aqua- formed about a scientific soei- tion, and perhaps it will be the ology? Because, says Miller, Chris- ccnfiguration or gestalt (in con- tians in the political sphet e are.· nection with psychological factors normally. and· oue: ht to be indis- • perhaps the actual group to which tinguishable from other men \ a person has an explicit psycho- .( though they should want the right logical relationship is more import- things and want th\em zealously). ant in ·determining his attitudes Christians, like other people, are than his \class Also we will unly qualified \<:• act politically have to recognize that some of the when they have been trained in ends or values we have may con- the discipline of political life. If. flic,t, e.g. justice with love, al- it is granted that social change is- thtough we should also beware of inexplicable without the scientific making this a rationalization for· sociology of Marxism, then in poli- existing evils if there is no actual tieal judgement, the Christian conflict. Chase, \Speaking of Myself.\: (1) Present sophomores· and Ticltets; $1.00. juniors between April 17 end April TUESDAY, APRIL 18 ~ Daily. ~ 8 · - assembly, to be announced; May 1 and May 5. UCCA; oc, 2:30 p.m.; Spanish: To avoid disappointment due to club, Silliman. hall, 7•30 p.m.;. over selection in various courses, AIEE (Student Branch), EE 22 ,, it is important that students repc•rt 7 30 · to their advisor-s promptly. : p.m. GRADUATION FEE of $15.00 WEDNESDAY, APRI-L 19 - B<tnd . will be payable at the Business Rehearsal, Gym, 7-9 p.m.; AlEE Office on or before Saturday, April ·<Sch'dy. ·Chapter), EE 22,'8 p.m.; 15. Vetet:ans \j/ho wish to have Art lecture,· OC, 8 p.m., speaker,: this fee charged against their G.i. Marcel Breuer, famed architect· Bill .should obtain a credit slip of Germany. Open to public' from Mr. Ketz and present this to ·without charge. Mrs.' Brandt at the Business Office THURSDAY, APRIL 20 .~ Daily. in pa:Yment of their graduation '' assembly, speaker, Mr. F. L .. fee. Please pay your graduation Kunz of the Fc•undation for in- l:'ee .c·n time and avoid the late pay- tegrated Education, MC, noon; ment charge of $2.00. should take cognizance of it. This is a book which raises some YET MARXISM is not a com- real problems and in its analysis viete philosophy for the Christian, has a poignant relevance fer these since he acknowledges that the times. Study While • • • • • You Can Examinations will be held in the Gymnasium unless otherwise di- rected. Final examination'S in Drawing lb & 3b will be f iven during the last class peric·ds. Conflicts in examinations sh~uld be reported to Miss Bouck in the Dean's Office befot•e Friday, May 19. !HONDAY, MAY 29 S:S_0-11 :irb English 24b CThe Victorian Eral; Er:glish 25b tThe English DramE); Sccial Studies 28b <American Con· stitutional Developrrent); Religion 62b (Comparative R<'ligionl; Geo- logy 23b cStructural Geol. & Glacial Geol.l; Physics 4b !Classical & Modern> Sec. l, 4, & 8 in EE 22; Physics 14b <Mechanical & Elec- trical Oscillatic•ns) Sec. 1 in EE 22; Physics 25a I Principles of Elec- tronics); Physics 25b <Principles of Electronics); Physics 26 ( Intro- duction to Maxwell's Field Equa- tions). 1:30-4:30 Greek 21•b (Adv. Course); Eng- lish 30b <American Literature>; History 25b (Hist. of Modern War- fare>; History 27b (Modern & Contemporary England); Govern- ment 48b (State & Local Govt. in Practice>; Biolr·gy 13b (Biological Concepts & Theories); Geology 14b <Palec'·ntology); EE 40 (Q.O.E.L -Term 7 EE); Air Science 3b 1 Ad- vanced!. 'l'UESDA Y, MAY 30 8:30-ll:SO Social Studies 50b (Social & Political Philosophy); Biology lb <General BioloEy); Biology llb (Zoology & Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates); Biology 21b <Em- bryology); 'Geology 21b <Miner- alogy & Crystallography) G.L. 23; Psychology 25b <Social Psych.); E. 27b <Heat Engines-Tet·m 6 En- gineers) C.E. 3()1, 303, .806; E. 34 41 <A.C. Machinery-Term 8 EEL <A.C. Machinery-Term 7 EE); E. l :3(}..4 :30 Span.ish 21b <Mcdern Span ish Literature); History 16b <History of the United States); Economics 40b <Accounting); Economics 46b <Aqv. Accounting> ; ·Chemistry 23b <Colloid), WEDNESDAY, MAY 31 8:30-11:30 ' English li:> IFreshman English) Sec. 10 & 11 in EE 22; Eng !ish lOb <Introd. to English Lit.) Sec. 5 in . EE 22; English 21 b (Shakespeare) ; Psychology 24b <Applied Psych). l :30-4:30 English 17 <Contemporary Latin 3~b IAdv. Course); History MONDAY, JUNE 5 ~nglish 12b <Public Speaking);. & Apprec. of Music; English 20b 8:30-11:30 Htstory 33b <Recent.& Contempt>r- 1 Milton & the 17th Century); His- French 20 b <French Civ., of the· ary Unitecj $tates); Ecc•nomics 49b tory 32b (Social. & Intellectual 19 th Centm·y); French 22 b <The· (Business Cycles); Chemistry 12b H!st. t>f the U.S.l; History 64b French Classical Drama); History <Organic); Geology lb (General}; <Greek & Roman History>; Gov- 21 b lGermany & Russia in Europe,' Geology 2b (Engineering~Junior ernment 35b r Public Administra- 1815 to the Present>; Economics CE); Mathematics 25b (Theory of lion); Biology 12b <Botary>; Chern- 45 b (Public Finance); Chemistry, Equations.& Algebraic Invariants). istry 25b <Adv. Analytical); Physics 24 <Chemical & Scientific Liter-. WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 · 36b <Electromagnetic Fields); ature); Mathematics la (Ar.al. 8:30-11:30 Structures <Term. 7 CEl; Struc- Geom. & Algebra); Mathematics Fr~nch lb (Elementary); Ger- tures <Term 8 CE>. ·lb, Alg. & Diff. Calc.>; Mathe- man lb (Elementary); Spanish lb 1:3(}..4:30 matics 2a <Alg. & Anal. Geom.); (Elementary); Russian lb CEle- American Civilization l:b <For Matheml).tics 2b <AnaL Geom. & mentary); Religion 68b (Judaeo- Engineets) Sec. 2 & 4 in EE 22; Calculus) Sec, 2 & 8 in ().E. 106 ; Christian Ethics>; Mechanics l1b History 1b I Hist. of Western Civ.) Mathematics lla <Diff. & Integral. I Analytical); E. 46 (Engineering SPe. 1, 6 & 7 in EE 22; Philosophy· Calculus); Mathematics llb <Inte- Economy-Term 7 CE). 17b Untrcd. to Philosophy); Phil- gral Calculus); -Mathematics 12b 1:30-4:30 osophy 29b I Hist. of Ideas in West. (Diff. & Integral Calculus) in C.E.' Art 20b (Painting & Sculpture); Civ.>; Social Studies lOb !Logic & 106; Mathematics 22b lil1tegral Eec;nomics 52b (Economic Theory); Scientific Method);· Highways & Calculus); Structural Design <Term Geology 12b (Geolc•gy & Physi- Airports <Term 6 CE>. 7 CE) in C,E, 303; Structural De- ography of Nortq Ame~ica) in G.L. sign (Term 8 CEJ in C.E. 303; E. 23; Psychology 1b {General) Sec. FRIDAY, JUNE 2 37 a (Seminar-Term 7 EEl in EE 5 & 7 in EE 22; Psycbo\logy Hp 8:30-11:30. 22; E. 37b <Seminar-Term 8 EEl· <Psych. of Personality & Adjust- French lOb (French Literature); in EE 22). mentl Sec. 1 in EE 22; Education Spanish lOb <Spanish-American 1:30-4:30 4b (Educational Psych. & Gen. Literature); Russian lOb !Ad- English 26b <Chaucer); Eco- Principles of Teaching); E. 29 vahced Russian>; Economics llb nomics 37b <Problems of Labor & <Elec. Engr. Theory-Term, 6 EEl. <Elementary) Sec. 2 & 5 to EE 22; Industrial Management; Science· a---- Economics 39b <International 5(}b CAn Approach to Modern· Photos E\ xhi.bi•ted Tl'ade & Exchange>; E. 47 (Engi- Science); Mechanics ·W' Materials . . neering Electronics-Term 7 EE); 20b (Term 6 EE & CE. By Robert Navias E. 48 <Power Electronics-Term 8 TUESDAY; JUNE 6 The Popular Photography Photo EEl; E. 49 (Communicat!or.s - 8 , 30 _ 11 , 30 salon sponsored by the Union Col- Term 8 EEL lege Photographic society on dis- 1:30-4:30 Latin lb (Elements of Latin);. play in Old Chapel, is disappointing. English 13b <Play Production)· Alth Art 26-(Archaeology); History History 20 b <Mediaeval Europe):, · ough the exhibit is supposed to 65b <History of Far Eastern Civili- E represent all J;>hases of photog- t . l E - 43b E ( conomics 38b <Corporation Fin-. raphy,. the pri'nts, W!'th a few not- za IOn ; conomtG!l ·-\ 1 _•_Qop_. 0 Transportation>; Social Studies 55b ancel; Sociology lSb <Introduction able exceptions, \appear uninspired 1 Techniques & Ideologies); Ch<'m- to Social Organizatipn>); Sociotc•gy and uninspiring. Granted that 57b (Comparative Social Institu- · istry 1a (General); Chemistry 1b tions); Biology 14 b (Invertebrate many of the prints were originally I Gencr.al l Sec. l, 4, 6, 8 in C.L. 201, made for newspapers, magazines, Fll'c. 2 & 3 in C.E. 206, See. 5 & 7 :Zoology & ParBsitology); Physics or advertising purposes does not in EE 22·, Chemistry 2b <General 24 b (Kinetic Theory of Heat). alter the situation in the slightest. 1:30-4:30 -BS in Chern.); Chemistry llb The salon is a clsappointment. (Quantitative Analysis); Chemistry 21b CPh~sical); Chemistry 22h (Physical); Water Supply <Term 7 CE); Sewerage <Term 8 CE). SATURDAY, JUNE 3 8:30-11:30 • French 2b <Second Year); French 12 <Composition); German 2b !Sec- ond Year); German lOb <In trod. to Modern German Lit.) ; German 12 <Composition); Spanish 2b <Second Year); Spanish 12 CComposilion); Concrete (Term 6 CEJ; E. 46 (Engineering Ecena.my - Tet'm 7 EE); Law la (Engineering) <Term 8 EE .& CE). SATURDAY, JUNE 3 1:30-4:30 Latin 1:1b (Second Yea!' Course); Greek lb <Elementary Comse); Greek 11b (Intermediate CoUTsel;. English 18 (The Modern American Novel); History 24b (History of Latin America); Social Studies 41b <Governmental Ecoromic Polley); Biology 22b· <General Physiology); Chemistry 31b (Advanced !nor- For Car Troubles, See a Union Man William H. Pl·ath Auto Service 601 UNION STREET • save with tlte CAMPUS AUTO CLUB ' FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 1911 Jacob's Pharmacy Fountain Service • PIPES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN \' (Cor. Nett and Carrie) GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Poetry); German 23b (The Classi- cal Period)·; Government 12b <In- trod. to Govt.); Government 4.4b <National Policy Formation); Math. 2lb <Differential Equations. & Adv. Calculus); Math. 31b (Adv. Calculus) ; Education 3b CRist. & Prililciples of Education); E. 15 <Elements of Electrical Machinery). THURSDAY, JUNE 1 . ganic); Physics 35a <Physical Qp- tics); Psychoio•gy 12h <Statistical ~c6~~~s)ka~~~~e M~~~~~c~T~;~r~ 11. 166 Jay Street II P.atton & Hall X\BAY FITTING EE & CE); Basic Structui·es (Tertn 8 EE). !!;:::=====:i:!·•====;:=:=.J \' 8:30-ll:30 245 • State St.-Since 1~5 FlliDAY, APRIL 14, 1950 Tossin' Around Lacrosse Epkmen Rated (j !.!::=:::::=By Don :schwartz~-. ,:Dutchmen Lose 1 The Unicon football team got its . first glimpse of Co:J.ch Sam :Ham- • Coach Vic Starzenski's spirited, b1 mersti'?m this Mo!!day afternoon 'varsity lacrosse squad will be looking as Sprmg outdoor 'fthe season when it meets the WiUi: practtce began. : \ L'b f\ ld · 1 Both players and . afternqon, on 1 rary 1e · m a con coach came away ·weather permitting. with a :full realiz- Til:i!r EPHI\IEN · wjll .~e a tough ~ --- ation of the tr~- nut :to crack for the Garnet, since IT' IS mendous magm- they \·have just r<;>turned ·from a squad. tu~e· of th~ job highly successful southern ·swing. and sr: they ,have ln. the They played two contests on the the Wi twco weeks re- tour, halildily downing North Caro- true, a maini~g ln the Ilna 10-0, and runr. ing over West- Hufnag session. ern Maryland by the tune of 9-1. .first , Most of Ham- The Williams ten is made up main· Norm ( rr. erstrom's key men . ly oj: veteran stickers, most of be at for better than two 11ears under·· wh\om participated in. the two de< ·be Ton John McLaug})ry's variation of the ·feats handed the Dutchmen l11st and B winged \T.\ The indoor half of .year. Last season Wililams .beat ieb is f Spring pr2ctice,-usually devQted to the Starman 11-7 at Williems, and a-nd Bi drawing equipment and learning ralllec. to take a 6-3 victory on Li- new plays .• was conducted by Me-, brary Field. The La.ugh~y with the expectation that April 4 he would hald contact W·C•rk once The UrJion Stickers dropped their top-not he got his men outside. Unfor- ·initial fray to Yale's strong la- . son-ope tunately, Hammerstrom has. to crossemen by a 17C5 cour.t. 'The heavy teach his men more thMl new only ot:P.er outing for the charges wide O\ .c<f coach Vic Starzenski was a 12 goa plays; he has to teach thein a new .scrimll:age contest agai;.,st Spring-· ·the en< system. f:ield University. To malre the task even toutgher, tN 'BOTH ·GAMES the locals many impo:r.tant men are. out for showed drive and scoring power in spi•ing spo,rts. Co-captain and. the first haJf; but lacked the ex\ qu~.rterb:wk Bob Fletcher is play- · perience and stamin<t to prevent ing lacross{l, but he is managing , to spend 45 ~mutes ll.a.ily with the th'eir rivals· from pulling away in football team. It would be much. the second half. However, in light bl of tb.e fact that the Garnet oppon-- better f(n• H!!-mmerstrom to be a e ·ents bad :been .practicing all winter ELI was th ·dentine ·sophorr the lo~ ing Eli .eran r countec the Ga to spehd more time with Fletcher b i t t . long. in thejr ·field houses, Coach Th as Bob will probably · e f rs 8 rmg Starzenski wasn 1 t too disappointed · e \ ·~ffensive quarterback this yeiu\ in his charges' .showing. loifgfhetnesre after· playing very little offensive . ball last year. :Since the club bas been practic- the fit ing out o.f doors for the last week, In s 1 'z Cookie Sherwin is playing :base- the U:qion mentor thinks' his squad addltlo ball, Scott Jackson, the only re- wll !show to better advantage midfiel maining wingpack, is goHi:og, and against the Ephmen. \Star\ is the Ut pon- Wilsey, 'Frank ·Grabski, and hopeful of bettering last · year's reserve Harry 'Petrak are out .for track. record of three wins an. d nine RaY Pomeroy has given up all : to scar h - losses, two pE Spring spo•rts activity heca use Is Jabs consume too many afternoons. RED \Without these men, Hammerstrom Rae· q·uet Wielders 2:04; 0 is going to· have just that m1,JCh Union ;~~~~~r a job .getting .to know his Hold First Drills ~~~0~~ However, anyone who has come Due to the loss of several vet- specta< in contact with the new Union erans, Coach Pete Nistad faces a goalie mentor has been greatly impressed .. difficult task in getting a well The At M-c~day's practice session, Sam balanced tennis squad ready for almost left no doubts that he Would drive the opener against R.P.I., May 3. schedu his players hard and. tl;l.at he would \This year Union must .. face several men E expect them to be o'n their toes at strong opponents who have kept Spring ali times. He also told that it their teams intact. former wouldn't be easy this spring as CAPTAIN FRASIER Henry of rallied they were going\to have to learn a Johnstown,- a consistent point win- MEA new variation of the-winge<l ''T.\ mentOJ The playe;s thems.elves were vt-ry ner, returns for his fo'!lrth year of than l varsity: to lead this year'§. team, much impressed and those that along with Dick Jesser, li.\ senior ·having commented Wl enthusiastically with three years of varsity com- for tt pi·ai·sed Hammerstrom. Naturally, lJetition, and John Chervenack, also new m the player~- are going to . have a senior with some experience. depart greater confidence in a coacli wb.o Other returnees include Leon Weis• prised ~ows h~ job well and shows It ·burgh, a senior who played in a ants t1 m his actioQ.~· HaJJUme~strom ~as .few matches last year and. should ·As a 1 made that kind of an rmpress1on, imvrove and juni't•rs John Ed- a few He will be firm and hard,_ but mondso~ and Floyd Snyder who chang< he will have the respect and friend- . are holdovers from last year's practi< ship of his squad. An inspection squad. only t• of Hammerstrom at work on Coun- . · group cil field gives one cc•nfidence that N~w _candidates _ w~o loom as eontes even though the job wili he tough possibilities are JUniOrs Wal~er April at · fil•st it is being handled. by a Je:qny, John. Knox, 8,1~ the Engltsh professi~nal who realizes what ex:chan.ge student, Scott A~derson. he's up against and can handle the The sophomores new trymg out. - b for the team are Bud Lester, JO Sam is left with 15 lettermen G~orge Exner, B~b :m;thd ~Ian. Tryc from last year-but he's lost 22. ·FJ:f\hbone, Alan Ra ac , re an-· will b He will field an outstanding first tor, Jerry RoJ:lerts, Jerry Gartner, Coach team, but· his problem comes from and Jerry I_i=lem. today. a lack of depth. He co.uld send out NISTAD .mtends to keep a squad: report a first team against st. Lawrence of from e1ght to ten m<;n to be next September that would read selected f'l'om matches agams~ each something llke this: Ray p.c.meroy othert,which ;.vm ~oll~.w a ber1~~ of and Randy ·-oram, ends; Frank prac tee sesstons as I_ng a ou wo. Grabski 'and co-captain Chuck weeks._ At these ses~10_ns the play- Abba, tackles; Harry Petrak and ers Will worll; o~ tJmu~g and at- Gerry Pai•ker, guards; Cookie tempt to g;et their legs mto shape. Sherwin\ -center· Bob Fletcher, .. Meanwhile, the golf team. ~nd quai·terbacki nick \ Speidel and Coach C~aire Graves B:re awa1bng Scott Jackson, halfbacks; Ted M.ar- the openmg ~f the Edison· club ~o tin, fullback. that they will be ~ble to begm But behind these are few .experi- pra?tice and hold their playoffs for enced men. j 6 n'Y O'Laughlin pos1tions on the squad. The course played well at defensive end the Is _expected t~ ·Oope~ next week latter part of 'last seasoit. Ed. whtch leaves httle. ~Im'; for team Ba.genski may prove. a very good to ~repare \f~r their f1rst match taclde,. Jim Ken:il.y has played a Apl'll. 28, agamst a. \ strong Roch- lQt of guard and likewise f6r Lar1•y _es:;:;t;:::e;::r;::te:;a:;;m:;;;::. :;;;:::::;:::;::::;:::;::;::::::;::~:;:;:; Foley at .center. Backfield depth t includes Ed LaM-ay, Rube Johnson, Don Wilse'y, alid Buck Wittner. It will talre a lot of work, but this may prov.e to be a very outstand- ing eleven. ---a,'-'--- LarfieS Go Modern A disease, known as tlle 'Rickey's; ' has spread to ·baseball . diamond: of St. Lawrence University. Coach Ronald: T. Burkman has installed, a batting tee for his hitters, similar to the one used at the Brooklyn Dodger prooving grounds, Vero Beach. Burkman claims that the device will be extremelY valuable in cur- ing the \fundamental faults of tile majority of colleg~ ballplayers. Tl:).is mechanical .age is getting all too . coinpllcated. UndoUbtedly the next. step is an automatic _quarterback for football practice when the regu-. Jar quarterbl).ck IS'>playing lacrosl!e. SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Aq&f!t on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Servic• UNITED CLEANERS TA_ILORS Phone 4 .. 5676 1}4 STATE N&er FERRY of

' 2 FRIDAY. APRIL 14, 1950 · For The· Book Shelf Your Information· Qlou.rnr THE'CHRISTI·ANSIGNil!'lCANCE . 'bl - ld · I '\' f ·VIS! e wor IS ·c·n Y cue area 0 .'FRIDAY, APRIL 14~Daily as-·. Thursday M;;usica:l Club ·concert, OF KARL MARX . ·. the· Realm .of God .. Setting the By Alexn.nder Millei' visible world hi this perspective seb:J.bly, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, Me,· MC, 8:30 p.m.! -i\.SME, EE 22, Reviewed ·by Ralph Reed does not mean that the main argu- noon; P1·e-Law club, English· 8 p.m.,; Fa~ult~ Ml'm~s Club, Hfl.le \Up to a point it fs as meaning- ment of Christianity with Marx~ reading rocm, 7 :$0' p.m.:· ~and Hot<se, 7:30 p.m. · ·• ·less to ask, what is the Christian ism is over the priority o~ the rehearsal, Gym, 4 :30 p.m. FRIDAY; APRIL 21 - Druily as- · Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National' Adver· llsing Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Hepresentative. 420 1\iadi- Mn Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday or the echool year. Edltprlal Office. Washburn Hall, Union College. Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette P1·ess, 33'4 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec•- ond Class Mail MattN, subscription lOP a eopy: $3 year rleJi.vered any- where In the .united States. answer to Marxism as it is to ask, sPirit or ic'eaJ.ism over materialism, SATURDAY, APRI\fllh-Boavd of seli:l,bly,, Dr. :E; A. Tfdmarsh, MC, ' what is the Christian arswer tc• for God is God of both, but it Directors, Alumni fund, Wi'llls noon; International Relations Euclid.\ This is a very Ioose does mean .that in the larger per-:, house, 9:30 a.m.; GI BILLS Club, English reafing room, 7:30 analogy, say,; Mr. Miller, but I ~pective !lach human is c·f inestim- CLOSE TODAY; Lacrosse, Union p.m.;. B~nd rehearsa~l, rQym, 4:30 thinrk that it illustrate,; at least ab·Ie worth, \ wher·c we do have 2 vs. Williams, Library ·field, 2.:30' ·. p.m.; Biology Lecture, 205, 4 .p.m., part of his thesis. ·quarrel with Marxism), an<;! that p.m.; Dance tUCCA>., Gym 8: spea·ker, Dr, F. P. Ellinger., Naval WHILE CHR•ISTIANS cannot eve 1 ·y human need is of ·the utmost p.m.; Glee Club concert, Bri<'ge-. Medical Research Institute, \The SJo:!liiOU ROAUII accept C.brxisn~ as a comple~e ur~ ency. In terms of this total· port, Conn., Municipal a:udic: Problem of Rac!iosensitivity\; · philcsophy, which itis cla.imed to be, view it is nevertheless through jus-· torium 8:30 p.m. Gradurute Council (Ex. Cc•m.) they .can, and ought to be aware of tice that love must first be ex- SUN-DAY, APRIL 16 - .Sunday Wyatt's; 7:30 p.m. WOLFGAKG RIEMER ............................................ Editor J AlllES BRYSO:>: .... , ................................. Assodale Eclitors -its explwna tory va-lue as a scientific pt·essed, for \to speak of love when· service, preacher ·the Bev. Chas.. Tlr 1 R . t , ff\ h sociclogy, says Miller. After p1·e- justice is' not satisfied is to ·pi·os- Noble, MC, 11 a.m.; Organ re- · e egts rar ~ 0 .lCe· .as a·n- senting the main line of orthodox titute the ;vord as we have done cital, Dr. K. A: Tidmarsh, MC,, n_o~nced. pre-re.~Jstratwn mstruc.r Marxism, he pr•ints •out that in tvw iu our modern 'charity'.\ 4 p.m.; Facul~y-studeht confer- ~~ 0 s for the~ ftrst semester, l950- , main trends, the development of MILLER~S BOOR is, I think, ence, Tip.pecanoe, 2:30 p.m. · · Bl'itish imperialism and Americ:;~.n · particulnly cogent in its ability to 1\IONDAY, APRIL 17 _ Daily 'Schecules for the following stu- DON CRI:ClilER JAY C'O!I!'-1 l\IARTI~ SIEOEI ................................... ,., ....• PagEl Editors WILLA ltD TA YLvH \VAY;;;'E DAVIS .. , ....................................... ;;;'ews Eclitor DO:-:IALD SCHWARTZ., .... , ..... , ........................ Sports Editor ROBJ;:RT ;;;'A VIAS ......................................... Photo Editor LEON WEISBURGH .................................. Business l\lanager \VILLIA:\1 THAYEIC ...•.. , ..•............•........ Cm·ulat•un :llauager capita.Jism, and the deepering eco- get q·round' the usual stigma at- . assembly, Gl'ee club, MC, noon; dents will be made in the Regis- . nomic crisis in the highly indus- tached to Marxism and to· give it· Placement discussicon, Bailey hall, . h'ars office and they need not re- trialized countries of Europe, Marx some serious consic\.eration. As- 108, 4:30 p.m.; Philomathean so- .port unless. called: JUXIOR BOARIJ \VALTER TOWER ........... , .......... , ..... , ............ Copy Editors · and Engels were broadly right in suredly, many Cht·istians wculd not ciety, English reading room, 7:30 (1( AU civil .and electrical engi- , their prophecy. The had' pictured· agt ee witb Miller's ·conclusior:s n:·r: p.m.; Balzac Anniversary Lecture neers except present term 6. ROBERT STRAND . J ERUME t;AHTN l•:H IR\\I;;;'rl HA;;;'·flLER ................... , ............... Exrhange Editor Bl!RTQ:-1 !1Hl'SKY ........................ Assistant Busiuess :\!anagers LEO KUPEHSt\Il~!ID AI,AN HADACK BICHARD. !'HI LIPPS ................... A,,;istant C'ireulntion !\lntmgers REPORTERS John Cassidy, Dermot Demis, Arthur Gold, Honald Guertin, Leo llal- luran, Euge.ne ·Ha1t1ert, Herbert Hiller, Jerome K ldn, Marvi 11 Kohn, Tony L..'lne, Lawrence Le\'ine, \Villiam l\lohrrnann. Calvin ::\Ialinka. l1ttvid Pahner Eric Sl'hmidt, Stephen Siinon::s, David \Veiehert, John V\'eiss. ' 'FE,\TURE STAFF Paul Carbone, Peter Fy fe. \\' Illiam Holzapfel, Alfre,l Kingon, \\\alter Levy, John :M:acDougal. John :llo~es, Hobert :\lurray. Richard 1-:emet·h,. MonrD<l SJ!vermann, Robert Smith, Josef S. '!\ofel John Von Jess, David \\'eart, 1\lichael Wolfe. George \\'oodr:uff l'IIOTO STAFF JH'SIXESS STAFI··· Stephen Brown James DcSorbo, Fr(•dt:>rkk Pevanl Hyrnan Flort~Jl<'£>, Jn~e11h H~·Hltller, Charles Little. Daniel Siesel. ClltCt:LATIOX STAI-\F Thomas Davenport. Henry Ducat, Hobert Grindle}\ George Hedington, Horace \'an\'of!st, \\'illtflm Wineheeter, Hichar.l Young, AI Nolan. L~t's Be Definite \Ve must comment on the laxity of the administration in meeting the emergency caused by the recent manifestation of spring, to whit the tremendous snow fall which has left every path on campus a morrass of mud and ankle deep s:now. Just because it snows six inches worth very infrequently in the middle -of April is no reason to put all of the shovels and plows away. We always thought that a liberal arts col- lege prepared one to meet all sorts of emergencies. · Thursday evening found most through fares on compus unfit for pedestrian modes of travel. What sort of authority must we appeal to in order to keep the walks clear? How high do we have to go? We just dislike sending home for our overshoes. Yes, for a liberal education Education The proposed conference of faculty, administration and ~tudents at Tippecanoe appears to be an excellent annual pro- Ject that the college would do well to continue to sponsor. That seems to be the general tendency. However we would like to see and hear definite statements to that effect coming from the college. the century since their time as with his concept of the state as an 1 lin French), OC, 8 p.m., speaker,. (2). Present term 2 J;>hysics some of developing capitalist crisis inst1·ument ·Of justice, <not of sal- M. Ren·e de Messiers, Cultural~ majors. and recurrent war. Fascism, the vation). My ·own opinion is that, Counselor of the French Em-. ( 3 ) PJ·esent possibility of which is mentioned in we should take co~ nizance of what bassy; pubUc invited, no charge;: · term 2 BS in Cheni- the Manifesto, is viewed as no Marx had to say if we wish to ' Alpha Phi Or.p.ega, EE 16, 8 .p.m.; Istry majors. . more than a11 organizec intensifica- understand the historic pmcesses.· Economics club, E E22, 7:30p.m.; All other students should re-port tion t·f capitali:st crises speeding bUt that in any prrticular analysis· American Assn.. University ·for pt•eparation of schedules· tc• the drive to war. we should be a,VIare that there are Women, MC, 8 p.m., speaker, Ilka ,their aqvisors as folloV\s: Why should Christians oe in- many variables in the human equa-1 Chase, \Spea ·of Myself.\ ll) P1•esent sophomores and for·med about a scienU.fic soci- tion,_ and .. perhaps it will. be the, Tickets, $1.00. . juniors between April 1'7 end April ology? Because, says Miller, Chris- cc•nf~gurat~on or gesta~.t <m con- TUESDAY APRIL 18 _ Dail 28. . tians in the political sphe1 e are necttOn w1th. ,psychological fact?rs assembly: to be announced~. May l and May 5. normally and ou1; ht to be in.dis\ perhaps the actua 1 gro';'P_ to which , UCCA; OC, 2 : 30 p.m.; Spanish, To avoid disappointment due to tinguishable from other men. a J?erson h::'s at;t ~xphc1~ ?sycho- club, Silliman hall, ':l: 30 p.m.; over selection in. various courses, l though they should want the right log1c~l relatwns_hi_P 1s m01 e I~pot.t- AlEE <Student Branch) EE 22 it is important tha,t students repc·rt things and want them zealously>. ant m ·determmmg h1s attttudes 7 . 30 p m ' ' to their advis9rs promptly. Christians, like other people, are than his \class.\) Also we will · · · · GRADUATION FEE of $15;00 only qualified tc• act politically have to recognize that some of the WEDNESDAY, APRIL l9 -Band . wm be payable at the Business when. they have been trained in ends or values we ha-ve may con- Rehearsal; Gym, 7- 9 p.m.; AlEE Office on or before Saturday, April the discipline of political life. If flict, e.g. justice with love, al- <Sch'dy. Chapter), EE 22 ,' Sp.m.; 15. Veterans who wish to have it is granted that social change is tht7ugh we should al~o beware of Art lecture, .oc, 8 p.m., spea.ker, this fee charged against their G.i. inex:p!icable without the scientific making this a rationalization for Marcel Breuer, famed architect Bill should obtain a credit sUp sociology of Marxism, then in poli- existing evils if there is no actual· of_ Germany. Open to public from Mr. Ketz and present this to tical judgement, the Christian conflict. ·without charge. , Mrs.: Brrundt at the Business Office should take cogniza:nce of it. This is a book which raises some THURSDAY, APRIL 20 .- -Daily in pa;f'IDent of their graduation\' YET MARXISM is not a com- real problems and in its analysis assembly, speaker, Mr. F. L. fee. Please pay your graduation plete philosophy for the Christian. has a poignant relevance fer these. Kunz of the Fc•undation for in- l'ee ;con time and avoid the late pay- since he acknowledges that the times. tegrated Education, MC, noon;. ment charge of $2.00. Study While • • • • • • • You Can Examinations will be held In the Latin 31b ( Adv. Course); History MONDAY;. JUNE 5 ;mnglish 12b (Public Speaking); Gymnasium unless· otherwise di- & Apprec. of Music; English 20b 8:30-11:30 History :lilb <Recent & Contempor- rected. <Milton & the 17th Century); His-. French 20 b <French Civ~ of the ary Uniteq States); Eec•nomics 49b Final examination'S in Dr a wing tory 32b (Social. & Intellectual lOth Century); ·French 22 b (The (Business Cycles); Chemistry 12b lb & 3b will be ~iven during the Hist. of the' U.S.>; History 64b French Classical Drama); History (Organic); Geology lb (General).; last class peric·ds. <GrPek & Roman History>; Gov- 21 b \Germany & Russia in Europe, Geology 2b (Engineering-Junior Conflicts in examinations sh~uld ernment SSb <Public Administra-' 1815 to the Present); Economics CE); Jl.iathematics 25b <Theory of be reported to Miss Bouck in the tion); Biology 12 b (Botary); Chern- 45b (Public Finance); Chemistry: Equations & Algebraic Invariants). Dean's Office before Friday, Ma:v istry 25 b rAd-v. Analytical); Physics 24 <Chemical & Scientific Liter- WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 . 19 • 36b <Electromagnetic Fields); atUt·e); Mathematics la (Atal. 8:30-11:30 MONDAY, MAY 29 Structures <Term. 7 CE>; Struc- Geom. & Algebra); Mathematics Fr~nch lb <Elementary); Ger~ tures <Term 8 CEJ. lb, Alg. & Diff. Calc.); Mathe- man 1b <Elementary); Spanish lb 8:3_0-11 :m, 1:30-4:30 matics 2 a (A!g. & Anal. Geom.); (Elementary); Russian lb (Ele- English 24b (The Victorian Era); American CivHization lb (For Mathematics 2b <Anal. Geom. & mentary); Religion 68b (Judaeo- English 25b <The English Drama); Engineels) Sec. 2 & 4 in EE 22; Calculus·) Sec. 2 & 8 in C.E. 106; Christian Ethics); Mechanics llb Scciai Studies 28b <American Con, History lb < Hist. of Western Civ.> Mathematics lla <Diff. & Integral ( Ana:Iytical); E: 46 (Engineering stitutional Developrrent); Rellgion SPC. 1, 6 & 7 in EE 22; Philosophy' Ca.!culus); Mathematics ilb tintc- Economy-Term 7 CE). 62b <·Comparative 'Religion); Ge6- 17b (!ntrcd. to Philosophy); Phil- gral Calculus>; ·Mathematics 12b 1:304:30 logy 23b <Structural Ceo!. & Glacial osophy 29b < Hist. of Ideas in West. <Diff. & Integral Calculus) in C.E. Art 20b (Painting & Sculpture); GeoU; Physics 4b c Classical & Civ.); Social Studies lOb c Logic & 106; MatheJnatics 22b llntegral Ec<;nomics 52b (Economic Theory); !1-ioderr.l Sec. l, 4, & 8 in EE 22; Scientific Method); Highways & Calculus); Structut-al Design <Term Geology 12b (Geol·c•gy & Physi- Physics 14b !!1-iechanical & Elec- Airports <T-erm 6 CE>. 7 CE) in C.E. 303; Structural De- ography of North Ame;ica) in G.L. Michigan Challenge trical OscillatiC•ns) sec. I in }!;E 22; sign <Term 8 CE) in C.E. 303; E. 23; Psychology 1b <General) Sec. · Physics 25a lPrinciples of Elt>c- FRIDAY, ,JUNE 2 3 7 a <Seminar-Term 7 EE) in EE 5 & 7 in EE 22; Psychology up P. Dykt>man \\rfe Ironies); Physics 25b <Principles 8:30-11:30. 22; E. 37b <Seminar-Term 8 EE) ·<Psych. of Personality & Adjust- ~·\ the modern vein allowed thP club of ElectJ·onJ'cs)·, Ph''SI'cs 26 l!ntro- ment) S 1 · EE 22' E The t · b th u · J French lOb <French Literature)·, in EE 22). ec. rn . · ; . ducation concer gtven Y e m- to particularly distinguishE'd itself. duction to Maxwell's FiPld Equa- 4b (Edu at· 1 P h & versit'' of Michiuan Glee Club la~t Th Spanish lOb <Spanish-American 1:30-4:30 c • c IOna syc · Gen. J ~ ~ e encGrPs. a travesty on Rach- tions). p · · 1 f T night in Memorial Chapnl may well · rr· c Literature); Russian lOb lAd- English 26b <Chaucer),· Eco- rmctp es 0 eaching); E. 29 ~ monmc· s -sha1·p Prelude and 1:30--1:30 (El E Th · serve as a challenge to the \'n 1 · 0 n Cl t· vahced Russian); Ecor.omics llb nomics 37h <Problems of Labor & ec. ngr. eory-Term 6 EE). u emen me, were remarkable for Greek 2lb <Adv. Course); Eng- · · Glee Club in that it was very well the' · · l't f <Elementary) See. 2 & 5 to EE 22·, Industrial Management·, Science 0 tr ongma 1 y o anang-t>ment. !ish 30b <American Literature); Ph t E h\b 0 attended, and as an encouragement Unhapp!'l h th 1 . Economics 39b linternational 50b (An Approach to Modern o· OS X I ··ted · Y · owever, e so 01sts History 25b t Hi st. of Modern War- · tc· them in that it was not so vast!\ d · th f Ttade & Ex:change); E. 47 <Engi- Science); Mechanics {),f Materials J urmg e irst section and later fare); History 27.b c Modern & superior as to merit this greater wer·e not th h' h t d d neering Electronics-Term 7 EEl·, 20b (Term 6 EE & CE. By Robert Navias up e tg san ar of Contemporary England>; Govern- T attendance. the club · 1 d 1 k d E. 48 <Power Electronics- Term 8 TUESDAY, ,JUNE 6 he Popular Photogr.aph·y Photo m genera, an ac e ment 48b <State & Local Govt. in THE EMPHASIS was definitely some control and d\ t' 1 f EEl; E. 49 tCommunicatior.s 8 •. 30 _ 11 : 3 () salon sponsored by the Union Col- IS me ness o Practice>; Biolc·gy l3b <Biological on the more popular type of music, articulation. ·Concepts & Theories); Geology Term 8 EEl. Latin lb <Elements of Latin·)· lege Photographic so•ciety on dis- but the thiec serious tompositions FOLLO\\l:NG the intermission, a 14b tPalet·ntology); EE 40 <O.O.E.I. 1:30-4:30 English 13b (Play Production): play in Old Chapel, is disappointing. made this listen<:>r wish that they Gershwin, medlt>y that featured the· -Term 7 EEl; Air Science 3 b lAd- Art 26-<Archaeology); History History 20 b (Mediaeval Europe):, Although the exhibit is supposed to had at least included a Bach· Novelaires Quar-tet evoked vast ap- ·vancedl. 65b <History of Far Eastern Civili- E represent all j;Jhases of photog- <!borale to really demonstrate thei~ zation); Economics 43b <Econ. of\ conomics 38 b <Corporation Fin- raphy, the prints, with a few not- p!alJ\'e J'rQm the uuC:ience us did TUESDAY, MAY 30 ance) · Sociology 18b <Introduction abilities. As it was, the club showed a \Melange\ of Michigan melr•dies Transportation); Social Studies 55b t S '. 1 0 · · · · aoJoe exceptions, appear Ull,insplred itself to be a well-balanced, well- which concluded with the Alma 8:30-ll :3() c Techniques & Id,eologies); Chern- 5 ~b 0 (~~mp~;:n~~ati~~~i~ISoi~~i~~~, and uninspiring. Granted that directed organization with great Mater. 1 Social Studies 50b (Social & istry la <General); Chemistry lb tior.s); Biology 14 b (In:vertebrate many of the prints were originally talent for unusual arrangements. Perhaps we are overl'· critical, Political Philosophy>; Biola\\ lb <Genera]) Sec. 1, 4, 6, 8 in C.L. 201, ·z 1 & p made for newspapers, magazines, Th f . t t f h J \\ S c 2 & 3 • C E 206. S 5 & 00 ogy ara.sitology); Physics or adver. tising purposes a· oes ·not e 1rs par o t e program but it seemed a plateau-like con- <General Biology); Biolc•gy 11b e • tn • •. • eo. 7 24b (Kinetic Theory of Heat). began with a c·O>llege hymn, Laudes cert, very even in proficiency, yet (Zoology & Comparative Anatomy in EE ~2; .Chemistry 2b (General l: 30 _ 4 :S() alter the situation in th<l slightest. atque Carmina, remarkable chiefly never t'eaching a peak or attempt- of Vertebrates>; Biology 21b <Em- -BS in Chern.); Chemistry llb TP.e salon is a djsappointment. for its clear enunciation as were ing the sublimity we have come to bryo!ogy); 'Geology 21b <Miner- <Qua!].titative Analysis); Chemistry .. .,.. .............. ---- ; ... -...... •. all the songs done by the group as expect. We had the impression alogy & Crystallograpny) G.L. 23; 21b (Physical); Chemistry 22b a whole. Music by Hanc'el, Krieger that it was as much a meeting of Psychology 25b <Social Psyqh.); <Physical); Water Supply <Term and Schuhert completed the tradi- local Michigan alumni as a serious E. 27b (Heat Engines-Term 6 En- 7 CE>; Sewerage <Term 8 CE). tiona! cpening section of serious musical co t d h h · ) C E 30.1 303 °06 E 3 ncer, an per aps t at gmeers • '• , , \' ; . 4 SATURDAY, JUNE 3· music. Two songs by Falgren in is the way it should be. _41 <A.C. Machinery_:.Term 8 EE). ------------------------------ (A.C. Machinery-Term 7 EEl; E. 8:36-11:30 Letter 1:30-4:30 • French2b <Second Year); French·· Span-ish 21b tMcdern Spar.ish 12 (Composition); German 2b <Sec- Literature); History 16b (History· ·Ond Year); German lOb (Introd. to Dear Mr. Editor: .of the United States); Economics Modern German Lit.); German 12 T~is is a letter for your suggestion box. Let's change the title of 40b <Accounting); Economics ·46b (Composition); Spanish 2b <Second your ftrst page column from \Around the Town\ to \Banter and Bicker;' (Aqv. Accounting);· Chemistry 23b Year); Spanish 12 <Composition); b B 0 (Colloid), Concrete (Term 6 CE); E. 46 Y ryson. r perhaps you should pu,t his column in the editorial page, E and put the editorials in his column. · WEDNESDAY, MAY 31 .( ngineering Eceno•my- Term 7 One finds it exceedingly difficult to discern which is fact and what 8:30-U:30 ,. ~~:J: ~a~~~. <Engineering) CTerm is fiction. in t~i~. particular column. We hope you will accept this as English 1]) <Freshman English) constructiVe cntJctsm and give the out-of-town students what they want. Sec. 10 & 11 in EE 22; English lOb SATURDAY, JUNE 3 S . 1 <Introd. to English Lit.) Sec. 5 in 1:304:30 mcere y yours, EE 22; English 21b (Shakespeare); Latin llb (Second '¥ear Course); Clarence .Giles PLACEMENT NEWS Men interested in a career in merchandising should hear W. V. Alexander '39 at 4:30 on Monday, April 17, 108 Bailey hall. Mr. Alex:- ander will interview on Tuesday for W. T. Grant Co. Our librarian advises that there are excellent opportunities in ll- briary science. All men \interested in this field are invited to call on Mr. Webb to discuss the subject. Psychology 24b (Applied Psych), Greek 1b (Elementary Course); 1:30-4:30 Gree~ llb tintermediate Course); English 17 (Contemporary Enghsh 1S JThe Modern American Poetry) ; German 23b (The Classi- Novel); History 24b (History of cal Period); Government 12b (In- Latin America); So·cial Studies 41b trecd. to Govt.); Government 44b (Governmental Ecoi!omic Policy)· (National Policy Formation); Math .. Biology 22b (General Physiolo!lyl; 21b (Differential Equations & Chemistry 31b (Advanced. Inbr- ' Adv, Calculus); Math. 31b. CAdv. · ganic); Physics 35a (Physical Op- Calculus); Education 3b <Hist. & tics); PsychoJ.o.gy l2b <Statistical For Car Troubles~ See a Union Man William H. Pl·ath Auto Service 601 UNION STREET Save with tlte CAMPUS AUTO CLUB ' . FOR ALL YOUR ..: GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 19l1 <Elements of Electrical Machinery). 7 CE); Machine Design (Term 8 l66 Jay Street Jacob's Pharmacy Fountain Service • P.J PES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN (Cor. Nott and Carrie) GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall x~RAY FITTING :MR. W. C. ROYN of tbe Albany office of Westinghouse will inter- view on April 19, for E.E.'s only. · IF YOU -HAVE company book- lets from the placement office, will you kindly retur.n them? Principles of Education); E. 15 Methods); Soil Mechanics (Term· ·.11. 1·· . THURSDAY, JUNE 1 EE & CE); Basic Structures 8:30-11:30 (Term 8 EE). !!::==========:; .. ===!J ~;;;;i;;::i,....======i;;;;:;;;;;::;;;:al 245 \State St.~Sli1ce 1895 To~ Th,e Ut first glin merstron: as Spl'inji practice Both pla coach ca: with a ft ation of mendous tude of th€y hav two ·we ~aining session,. Most 4 merstron for bett~ John .ll'fc' winged ' Spring p drawing new ·.pia:~ Laughry he wourc he got tunateiy, teach h plays; l\E system. To ma many in spr~g qua.rterb: ing Iacr4 ,to spe~d football better fo· .to spend as Bob \1 nffensive after pl~ ball last Cookie ball, Sc< mainjng pon· Wi Harry 'I Ray Po Spring E lab.s con: -Without is going tougher squad. Howev in cont: mentor 'l At MC•TIC left no < his p!ay4 expect t: all tim~ wouldn't they we1 new vat The pi much i: commen praised the pla greater knows 1 in hls a made tl F!e w he willl ship of of Ham1 cil field even th· at first, professi, he's up job. Sam from IE He will team, b a lack 4 a first next S4 somethi and R: Grabski Abba, 1 Gerry Sherwlt quart~ar· Scott J1 tin, fuJ: But 1: enced played latte~· Ba-g ens tackle, lQt Of g Foley : incl~de Don 'll will ta may p1 ing ele· Lar A dis has si of St. Ronal a batting to the Dodge1 Beach. Burl will bE ing th majori mecha com !;ill step i: for foe la1.\ qu

.. FRIDAY •. APRIL 14, ·1950 3 Lacrossernen Face- Rough Williams Toss in' .. Around tarries Go Modern · A disease, known as tl:ie 'Rickey's' has spread to baseball diamond of $t. Lawrence University. Coach Ronald T. Burkman has installed a batting tee for his hitters, similar to the one used at the Brooklyn Dodger' prooving grounds, Vero · Beach. Burkman claims that the device· will be extremely valuable in cwr· ing the -fundamental faults. of t):le majority of college ballplayers. This mechanical age is getting all too complicated. Undoubtedly the next step is an automiJ,tic quarterback for football p1·actice when the re~­ lar quarterback !~playing lacrosse. SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR. YE:AiiS See Your Own Agent on the Cemplis for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED C.LEA.NERS TAJLOilS 1.14 STATE Near FERRY Coach Ha,mmerstrom In Action Garnet Nine Takes Form , ......... DESK LAMPS Adjustable Incandescent and Fluorescent • SAVE SUPPLY CO. 501 State St. PHONE .6-4193 L. G. BALFOUR CO. BADGES - RINGS - FAVORS . JEWELRY LEATIIim GiFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS . CLUB I'INS - XEYS l\iEDALS - TROPHIES Write or call CARL SORENSEN SO M~y Ave, Waterford. N.Y. PHONE TROY -.tU)AMS 8-2528 WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens ancl the Finest Gifts .Corner Stafe and Center Sfs. In State College, Pennsylvania, the favorite gathering spot of students at Pennsylvania State College is Graham & Sons because it is a cheerful place- full o£ friendly collegiate aimosphere. And. when the gang gathers around, ice-cold Coca-Cola gets the call. For here, as in college haunts everywhere-- Coke· belongs. Ask for it either way .•. both tr(lde-marks mean the same tMng. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BO~G COMPANY @) T9SO, The Coca·Cola Company

4 Hale House Faces New Improvements EDI'l'OR'S NOTE: The following story was left over from our April reool's edition of a week ago. Since we are still in a light-hearted, or headed, frame of mimi and are completely in favor ( ?) of the ideas pre- sented here, we print it a wee!< late. By John Moses Hale Hou.se will soon have its face lifted. The Board of Trustees has O.K.'d the suggested ilnprovements and work will probably begin this summer. AS A START the mo~strosity ~ --------------- termed the \sandwich\ bar is to be replaced by a stage on which the \Bill South Scandals,\ an all- ~ irl can-can show, will cavort dur- ing and after meal times ~ox· the entertainment of the clientele. Dur- intermissions the girls will mingle with the students tc• promote the sale of coffee. One point chapel crec'it will be given with each cup of coffee after the first two. Mr. South, who eats in the Rath- skeller, also announced that the quality of the food is to be im- proved without any mc!'ease in cost \ whtch is exactly what the stud~nts ha\'e maintained he could do all alcongl. BY POPULAR demand the num- ber of waitresses is to be mcr·eased to one for ever:,• table wtth six PXtta girls m cP~P anrone desires room service. Howeve1. as it is a polic~· of thP admimsttation to discoutagP su~h pampering. a chat ge of tPn ct>nt< extra is to br ]PVt<'d on ar \'one dPsirmg his rnPnls tr· ,b<' bi·ought up by a W i itrPSS. The ptc:;cnt thoiOU!;hfaie thtt the main dinin1; t oom wi II b<• \\tdrnPd ~nd n c'ertinn of W'lll DTl hnth ends kno<'kr( nut to allo\\' f<>t' two.]o»r dth·ing anrl 'li'-'le park· mg for curb set'\'tC'P Th<' :\!ounte- banl<s a rr being sounded nut r n a cttt\'f\·tn n1oviP rorcfl~~lon InO\'tPs to hP shm' n a ftPr the floor show. INSTEAD of the present sys- tem of pttrcha,.ing rn<'nl ticl<Pts students will prpspnt thei J' artivi- tlP~ tirkot\ to the ('~shiP!' to hE> punrhPrl. RE>AsonahiP fflc<\imiles will suffireo At ran?entPnts have bePn made for J.1sch:1 Heifrtz and Yehudi :\[Pnuhm tn \<trr·ll a mnng- thP dinf't'S and play request nurnbets. !\lr f\r.nth stnted thnt they hnvP ae-rerd to work for their meals if PC'trillo ran be bought off. The t:nion CollH e Memorial Chapel orgar. was suggested as a bribe. IT IS HOPED that thP alteta- tions nnd trrprov<>mPnts will induce stuc'ents to ent more at HalP House and lrss et their girl's house. If th<' C'asino pt oves sur- <'t•Mful plan• will bP drnwn up for an all-night dtnet adjacent to the LotaiJJ,ohlltt:llt allJ c~tellllg to the aftc't-theatei cto\'.d. 0 Rifle Team Places The Cnion Culleg<' ufle team Jo;c,ceu ,.,Ixth 111 the \\'Illtam Ran- cJ,:,,I. )lcc<t~t 1:1::c Cull!.(JctJUun IC· untl\. Tl.L ,tLhu .. .:~L'lllt..!lll i~ Ie- l£.arl~.tLh ~ .. uJ ~l. . .tJul ItuL~. 1 t 1!. Eatun, ''f1Jl t1.d.!! ~;'I lht.: ftt.:;t ~LJ.l l:nlvll h<.t~ h.~J \ 11fle lc:-tll und l..1t.! C ~\ Clt.: 111 ulht..L lL<.t!llO LUill- !Jt 1tl1b THE TF..\:\1 \\~!> cuachcd b~ T~· Lni1 ,ii St•lgt·tnt Andre\.\ J f llid. a. \t tt IUL ai! f, 1«-.:t non- t viJlll\j,,j(Jf1CU ufftLl't :.Ictlli•U~ d t1 t t• dill 11· Fr 111t 1:-. TI.. DoUillllHl, J '\ 1•h .J l!.tnnan, .T.trtH'> E. :\Ic Gt ath, ]J.,.)d :.Ic•ctll\l olld Ft ed B :.Iillo Tbe el.HJ!l Cvlitt-.~ tt.<tlJ1 uLtHUl~J a t-'COl t { f ~~9 of a }HI:-- \'iblP 1,000 Scutcs •A othet sd1<-' I, tn this ,,nnit\ \\<I<' Ct t nPII I'nilt·tsit>. f107, c,::).:<~'• l\niv•t~It~. 830. TIP!.. 70~ . .tr,~l V.''ll!ianls Cu:h. P 7fJ7 LA~GE & RAPP Pharmacy PR ESCR I PTI ONS \Service for the sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET .. College Gets Works of Art From Kruesi Professor Frank P. Albright, head of Union's new art depart- ment, announced this week that Walter E. Kruesi, class of 1902, has made a conation of several in- teresting works of art to the col- lege. The gift includes three large silk prints, two mandarin portraits, a Chinese prayer, and two old rubbings of the Soong dynasty. Also included was an original Currier and Ives print. MR. KRUESI acquired the large prints ft om the Brooklyn museum years ago, and now decided to don- ate them to Unic·n. Professor' Al- bnght had one of the lmge hang- ings, a tiger, Eppr·atsed by a Mr. de Lippe, Ortental Curator f(}r the :\'[etropclitan Museum of Art, anc It wa:; pi onounced a museum piece. Accorc ing to Ptofessoi Albright, all thiee pr tnl:; ate lJ.Uile iuteiest- tng and beautiful, especial!) in Ie- ~!Ject tu thdt mll!cate • nd mit! Ol· ltke rept oductiun. The Chmese p'rayer. obtamed tn Chma by Mr. Kruest, IS lather Ill- tel e~tmg i:Jecau:;e tt IS a p1ctu.J c !Jiuyu·, wtth a pUIJJ-Lse not dts· .stmtlar to the Roman Catholic use of candles, Professcr Albllght noted. It IS on dehc~te paper and now mounted on catdbvard to protect 1t. He stated that a gt eat deal of cleaning and 1 efur·btshmg would be necessary befOie a' com- plete exhtbition CL·Uid be possible. However some uf these objects I are now on display in the 018. Chapel. ---0--- Photo Society Plans Contest The Union College Phctogr:tphic society will sponsor the first raP- pus wide photo Pontes!. Geot ge N ·I Woodruff announced 'IluE>sday. The pnnts, Woodruff satd, may be ~ n:, stze, mounted Ol' unn:ountcd, a.nd of any subject. Ct·lut tt anoput· ancies will also be accepted. Prizes wtll be awarded for the best prints. i Deadline for the contest Is 5 p.m. 1 :\.1onday, l\h .. y 1. 1950. Pnnts should 1 be ll'ft m the Cuncot dtenBis office. I All p1mts u,ust be platnl) mUikeJ 1 un the back \tth the r.ame and I c-~liLli l!bb uf the maku. I ALTHOt\GH the nam(~ of the JU< !;CS ha\e nut ~ct been 1 cleased, \\'ou<.lruff :>at<.l that judgmg v.ould I :>t. rt Ii! ht aftet the contest clo:;co. The accepted prints will be dis plaJ ed tn Old Chapel after judg· m,;. \Yoc·t!t uff pointed cut that the photog1aphic soctl'!y's datkioom \til be open evety Tut•:;da.} nig-ht ft om 7 to 9 .30, tu help campus phutug1 af}het s to meet the dead· Jill c. The :;ocicly .,., ill pwvid c in- structions in developing and print- ing- for th0se .,.,ho desire them. Chemicals wtll be supplied, but In· c'ivtduals must bring theit L·V.n pa1 er. \Voodt uff said. NOTT REST AU RANT and BAR • Righi Outside Green Gate ; I WINES - LIQUORS I and BEER ! t --···············~~ GAZETTE PRESS Printers .... Group Starts Host Service The Delphic Society announces that it has offered its services ll:s student host to welcome all visitors and college teams to the campus. KARL :ROOH, president of the Delphic Society, has outlined the duties as follows: to meet visitors to the campus and co•nduct them to specific places on the ca,mpus; to guide visitors on tours of the campus; to acquaint visitors with information about the campus and its activities; and to render any other reas<Jna:ble service called for by college administrative and de- partmental offices and personnel. Members will be available frc•m 8:00 a.m. to 6:00p.m. (except while in classes or on Sundays.) A d.uty roster list has been prepared and distributed to all members of the society and to the various collegE:' offi,ees. In case o_! emergency ab- sences or the need for additional help, Tom Elliott, Bill Van Ost, or Karl Koch should be cc•ntacted. . WILLIAM Van Ost has been named Chair·man of the Reception Committee, with Thomas. Elliott in charge of campus reception. Other chairmen are: Baseball, William Cgr>eland; Golf, Scott Jackson: Tennis, Richard Speidel; Lacrosse. Edward Layden. l. ~·-. ~. ~ .· FRIDAY, APRIL 14, 1950 Summer Job Possibi(ities Listed The placement office is dealing<£•>-,..~---~--~­ with summer positions which may lead to permanent employment. According to F. A. Wyatt, director, students sho•uld play do.,.,n financial return and ask for opportunity to work for the sal~e of e:x;perience and to demonstrate that they have the qualities which will make a good employee. MISS FRANCES TRAVIS, r.e- corder, is in charge of summer work. Suggestions from the placement bm·eau for summer employment are as folc•lws: The Consolidated Edison Com- pany of New York will hire lOQ Juniors for summer of 195(}, from whcm they will select full-time em- 'ployees next year. Apply to Wil- liam Glendinning, Service & Place- ment Bureau, 4 Irving Place, New York City. Bureau of Public Roads, U. S. Department of Commerce, Wash- ington, b. C. Highway and bridge engineering; c•pen to sophomores, juniors, anc seniors ir. Civil Engi- neeting . Fuller Brush Co., 701 N. Brandy- wine Ave., Schenectady; or look up the representative in your own home a!'ea. A nationally known company is interested in men with writing ability. Platoon Leaders Class of the Marine Corps. summer school at Marine• Corps Camp, Quantico, Va. See D>fficer in charge of Marine re- crUiting, P. 0. Building, Albany. Naval Reserve ·Mncer CaJ,1.didate School. Sumrner pl'Qgrams lead .to commissions. For particulars, ap- ply to Surface Division 3-93, which meets Tuesday evenings at the Naval Supply !D€pot, Scotia. • Foundry Educational Foundation accepts registration from under- graduates who considElJ; the foun- dry industry as a career. Engi- neers and chemists are eligible. Gec•rge K. Dreher, Exec. Dir., Foundry Ed'l Foundation, Terminal Tower Bldg., Cleveland 13, Ohio. The atomic project at Los Ala- mos, the Naval Ex:perimental Sta- tion at Annapolis, and the Naval Ordnance Labo:vatory at White Oak, .)\!Id. have summer programs for scientific personnel. In each case, address Director of Personnel. Men ·with definite inclins.tion to- wards insurance sales should see John D. Hitchcock '30, New York Life Insurance Co., 90 State St., Albany. Mutual Life Insurance co., Wm. WRUC Pra1\sed H. Schmidt, Actuarial Dept., 34 · Nassau St., New Y01•k City. Wc•rl$:' Radio Station WRUC this week in actuarial department for math ·received a certificate of commenda- majors. tion from the War Department for Connecticut General Life Insur- broadcasts presented on behalf of ance Co., Havtford, Conn. P. H. the National Guard, \ ... in recog- Yost, Personnel Assistant. Summer nition of patriotic service to the work for nmth rnajors. All life National Guard of the United insurance companies are interested States durmg th\l year 1949.\ The in men qualified for this work. commendation was signed by Maj. The Grand Union Co., 50 Church Gen. Kenneth F. Cramer, Chief, St., New York City. Mr. J. G. National Guard Bureau. Kreger will interview here April The station was made a charter 18, and will see men for summer member of the Interna;tional Good- wc•rk ,.at 4 p.rn. that day. will Network at the same time it Jewel Tea Co., Barrington, received the National Guard recog- Illinois. Branch sales. Retail store nition. The Goodwill organization ( Cl)icago onlY'l. See bookl.et and was established in 1949 by \Radio- application at Placement office. diffusion et Television Francaises ':r~e F. ~ M. Schaefer Brewin~o., New Yorl!; ...... Ar A st the m reSQiiii' Dewey public toys. ( on he~ it run'' cap gu us feel Sear C•ther Five ~ $.99. ( ceedin off ere< Brul made! ll.t Un tioned Scotia. he is l the cl la.ge, Septen A ~ pected this Yl opens day. May clalme Heaitli lllert c stenl:lll such a juveni ism .. :Sch€ will b a~oord The e• rt>.ised dtizen cry is thing CINEl Proctr Disr feat State· in ' with \Th< Erie: Will and mat Shat Moha' A dra1 ther 12 To Dr. visor tee, a organ agree< next four ~ ber hnve colleg spans• be g-i actua THl by thl appro Finla1 Islam lands A g again folJOVI room apiec< Theta Upsil< Delta silon, N• offi• wee of fit file« 4::!C MOl and AF Se-.. AFR• tady Fore< April cade1 serve parti facili radm CA will Will quar· Satm retm malt: Cam- Forb r!SOtl Willi

., Around . · Tou'n By Jrunes H. Br.yaon .. • ttttStS Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENt:CtADY, N. Y., FRIDAY. APRIL 21, 1950 PRICE 10 CENTS Dean C. W. HllDtley an- nounced this week that all stu- denj;s '\\ill be required to take at least 15 credit hours a term starting next year. ·Permission to talte less than the mi.nlmum number of courses must be granted by the Committee on Standing of Students.

2 Qlnutar -Member Associated Col• leglate Press and distri- butor of the. QOIIE>giate Dlge.St. National Adver· Using Representative: Na- tional Ad vertistng service, Inc,. College_ Publishers Representative. 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Puh· llshed every F-riday ot the school year. Editorial Ol'flce.Washburn/ Hall, U'n!on. College. Pub• !!cation Office, The Ga- zette Press~ :l3~ ·state .St. Entered In the Scbenec· tady Post Oflllce as Sec- ond Class Mail Matter. subsci'lptlon 10c a copy ; $3 year delivered any- where In the United States. SENIOR BOARD WOLFGANG RIEM-ER ............................................ Edjtor JA.MES _ BRYI30N ...................................... Assodate Editors DON CREGIER .JAY COHN MARTIN SIEGEL ........................................... Pag~ Editors WlLLARD TAYLOR DONALD SCHWARTZ .................... -- ......... - ..... Sports E<l!tor ROBERT NA VIAS ......................................... Photo Editor LEON. wEISBURGH .................................. Business Ma:n~g-er WlLLIAM 'l;'HAYER ................................. Circulation Ma:nager JUNIOR, BO:AR·D WALTER TOWER .......................................... Copy gd!tors J.EROME ·GARTNER IRVING. HANDLER ..................................... E~ehange F!ditor BURTON_ GRUSKY. _ ...................... Assistant Business Managet·s LEO KUPERSCHMID ' ALAN RADACK _ RICIIARD PHILIPPS .... ROBERT STRAND . ..... AssistfHit r.lrruhtt'i<'n :\Tanagers REPORTEltS John Cassidy, Dermot nernis, Donald' Guel'lin, F.ugen~ Hal'pert, l!Prhert Hiller, Jerome Klein, :.\Ian·in Kohn. Anthony Lang, I.~wr~n<'P· LE'vlne. Wlll!ain Mohrmann, Calvin ~!allnka, David Palmer, Eri<' · Si·hmidt, Stephen Simons, Qonald Simmons, uavitl \V~it·he!'t, ;John \\'~!><s. FE.A:TURE STA·FF · Paul Carbone, Peter Fyfe, William Holzapfel, A-lfred Kingon, Walter Levy John MacDougal, John Mos~s. Robert Munay, Richard Nemeth, Mon.:oe. Silvermann, Robert Smith, Josef S. Tafel, Dal'id ·wealt. ~Iit'bael Wolfe. · George Wootlt•uff PHOTO STAJo'l•' Alan Forman BUSINESS ST Ak'F James DeSorbo, Frederi~k -Deva-n, Hyman Floren<·~. Jose(,h 1-huuller, Charles Little, Daniel Siesel. -CIRCULATIOIN S1'A~'F Thomas Davenport, Henry Ducat, Robert Grindley, George Redington, Horace VanVoast, William Winchester, Richard Young, A! ;:-.;clan. I FRIDAY. ·API'hL 2l1 1950 ·The Book Shelf Dear Editor: A L~:NG DAY'S DYING more so hi Beucbner's own inab!lity' How can the editor who wrote the article ''Let's' be Definite\ in ·to -communicat~ with his -readers~ . the Apvil 14 th Concordiensis ju:>ti-fy his belittling language i:p ·deriding lly F I_'.ede·l'ick Be. uchner TRUE THE LAD has w~itten a ' ' · · · ' · the College for putting away the snow plows prematur:ely wh1m he _ Revi~wed by David Markson • · reme,rkably delicate book. It ill so ends the ar.ticle by saying \W.e just dislike· sending home for our finely wrought, however, that like overshoes\? Now that the furor has subsided, a sheet of gold' leaf; it d,isintegratcs FRANK P. A~RIGHT itnd we've stc•pped hearing so much into nothingness with a little . f.''J!. > about the phenomenal precocity of handling. Any perceptive penetra~ Editor's note: We arc tremendously pleased to :;;ee that somebody young_ Frederick Beuchner, it is tion beneath t:he veil of compl'exly. does read· the editor~al ·colrtmns. An apology is necessary in that the about time that someone appraised sesquipedalian prose indicates that two headlines for the editorials w.ere inadvertantly· reversed ;md the , A Long Day's Dying on an organic· Beuchner says virtually -nothing. article referred to above. should have been headed by the Word \Edu\ basis, considering the no¥el on its weorthy of the g1:andiosity in whic-h cation.\ own merits with basing evaJuation. it is stated . .Sometimes, in fact, But believe it or not Professol' Albright, we were quite serious in solely upon the a·ge of the author, after we have disengaged ourselves taking a dig, not .only ~t the rcmtult that is often made a:bout a Iibera;! criti'cal terms, is totally • from his pinchbeck web of verbose educat-io!) that '\-it prepares one for emergencie~,\ but we were also · subordinations and mod-ifications, taking a dig at oursewes for being as unprepared as it appeared the MR. BEUCHNER'S youth, in we find that he has said nothing . coll~ge was. All this was just pointed up by the .fact of the unusual critical teilms, is tota.Jiy irreleva!J-t. at all. . ·snow fall. · . If om· reviewers would stop formu- Beuch-ner's characters, mean- . Perhaps We will just Jlave to write editorials at greater length, latirtg their juc'gement$ upon bio•. while, motivated by superficially but it seems a shame not to alloW' peojjle to read into them what tht)y graphical or historiea:l standards, contrived ft:ustrations, rival the . please. . , . a.n,d apply their misd-irected inter- authol\'s ~chnique in arti-ficiality. > pt•etative abilities to more funda- Structurally, the novel is cpisocic > L.· etter· to• th-e. Se· n·.·· $f' s ·._mental analyses, we would have and unsubstantial; and, similarly, U' ... . - ,heat:d. much >Jess ·about this ·nov.el his ridiculously contrived symbol~ . Dear Classmates, than We have. ism, instead ·of being an tnteg_ra:l T~is coming week we are getting l,lrtderwa:y with the Senior Class A Long pay's Dying, desplte the pc•rtion of th!lt structure, is despet·- ~eumon E'tmd drive. During the past week Hal Van de Car and I · petiphrastic obscurity Of Beuch- · ately superimposed upon the in- . tied ~he loose ends of the prog;am together and as a consequence a ner's pretentious style, is essential· trinsically vulnerable pattern. : meehng of the Clas~ Fund representai:ives Was held -in Old Chapel. · •lY a. pretty shallc•w piece. Obsessed· READERS ADDICTED to this At that time -:ve red1scussed the pmgram anq set up the organization ·. with the va-rious .subtleties inherer.t type of .subjective approach to: .for th!! collectron of the 1950 premium and also selected five volunteers· ;In that part of the human person- t·elativ.ely inconsequer.tial situations' to be named a:s policy holders. · -ality involved in comrp.uni-ca;tion are herein referred, therefore, to We hope to 13tart ·collecting for the first premium Monday through · :between- individuals, Beuchner has the somewhat mor-e adequate sub-' the representativ.es placed in your various Fraternity Houses Dormi- compo\lnded a fantasy aimed at stantiality .of Henry Ja:mes - at tiEis, or \abodes'' in Dutchmah 1 s Village (fl'!:e off campus m'en have- illucidating the obvious huma-n pro- least U!!til such time as the mis- already been contacted). pensity for ·inarticulation. This guided talents of young Beuchner, It would be !freatly appreciated ·if you could make the contribution aim, however noble, has resulted, with maturity, may be ·>directed to- as soon as .possrble for we hope to get the drive completed- by May- not so much in an expression of ward a valid interpretation of cer- lOth, at 'the latest. · the average indiviC:ual's inability tain of the more c·hviously signifi- At .tb.e expense of sounding trite I realfy feel that you as a Class to cc;.mmunicate w.ith others, but cant and universal realties. ha\:e giVen me a treme~dous amount of cooperation up \\to this point. I smcerely ho~e you Will co-operate to the same extent on this ,last project that w1ll confront us before we .graduate. Sincerely, JOHN DE BELLO, PRES. For Your Information 'FRIDAY, APRIL 21-Daily Assem- p.m.; French club, 7 p.m. Silli- L_I.brary G-r· ···pes Ch' ,_-- ·esti·es '-------------------------------• bly, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, man hall; Band rehearsal, Gym . noon; Band 1ehearsa:l, Gym, 4:30. 7 p.m.; Newman club, CE 106, Members cf the periodical divi- - p.m.; Faculty Woman's Club, promptly at 7:15 p.m.; The Rt. sion of the Union College library A d- d Mrs. Rojansky's, 3 p.m.; J?iology Jl_ev. Msgr. John L. Reilly Lin- staff this week. drew up a 'iist of w· ·ar. e Lecture, 205, 4 p.m. Speaker, Dr. coin Memorial lecture, MC, 8 their \gripes\ agair.st' -t.he college - . - ·- · - F. P. Ellinger, Naval Medical p.m. t d t b d Th · s u en o y.. · e itemized list The Concordlensis has awarded Word has it, still on an informal basis;, however, that Research Institute, \The Frob- THURSDAY, APRIL 27-Daily as- issued includes the following a prize to th'e :runner•up In Its re- Compul~ory Sitting lem of Radiosensitivity\; Inter- sem. bly, Speak.er, Dr. Norman T.. · t · th II ' I · t · seats as a basi's fol' taking pom s: cent letter contest even though e CO ege lS p annmg -o assign . · . . · .. . national Relations Club, English Carson, Supt. of Agencies, Secur- d t l It · t t d' 7 30 Gl 1. EATING LUNCHES, candy there were two c-c~winners. How- atten ance a compu sory cu ure sessiOns nex rear a noon crelablncg rootms, t : Ap.md:t: . ee ity Mutual Life Insurarce Com- bars, etc. and thim . ...-'J. eaving\' pa~ ard A. Simons and Evan i.. Rich- time assemblies in Memo1·ial Chapel. This was the informa- u oncer · rong .u. 1 onum, pany, Bint hamton, MC, noon; d d I University of Rochester, 8:30 Freshman LaCrosse Union vs. per bags, wrappei·s and garbage' ards were named today as the win- tion given out at 2 recent meeting of stu ents an facu ty G d t c · 1 CEx on the flc·or and on the shelves.· r..ers of the Concordiensis Letter -of p.m.; ra ua e ounCI ecu- Troy YMCA at Schenectady, 4:30 · and adml .ni'sti·ati'on. t' c •tt ) M w tt' There a-re exactly 10 wast pa- the Month Contest fo_ r Ma.rch. The 1ve omm1 ee , r. ya s, p.m.; Octavo Rehears'al, MC, 8 7:30 p.m.; student Christian p.m:; AIEE (Schenectady Chap- ·per baskets upstairs, all very· usual award ol; one carton of Might we here suggest that perhaps it might also be Movemel)t <spring council meet- ter), OC, 8 p.m. Speaker Mr. M. rarely used. Chesterfields was upped to_ two by required of each student to keep his hands folded sedately. ing> at Lisle, N. Y. M. Brandon, V-ice-President of 2. Playing car(s in the balcony: t4e campus Chesterfield r.epresenta- and somewhat meekly during each chapel meeting. In addi- SATURDAY, APRIL 22- Varsity. National Board of Fire Under- and keeping score on the fly t!ve Myril M. Green because of the tion he might also keep both feet placed firmly flat upon Baseball, Union vs. Hobart at writer&. leaves of t·he periodicals, Math unusual situa~ion of having two S h t d 2 30 V ·t problem<> are very often worked winners. Sam H. Ne:wc-cmer was the floor c enec a y, : p.m.; ars1 Y FRIDAY, APRIL 28-Daily assem- \ · h bl -' t k U · T · it t H t out on magazines, too. given o:il.ora e -!Jlention. rae , · r.wn vs. rm Y a ar - · bly, Recital Dr. E . .A,. Tidmarsh, ford, 1.:30 p.m.; Varsity LaCrc..sse, MC, nopn; Baseball, Unicn vs .. 3. DESTROYING bourd periodi- CONCORDIENSIS editors could Perhaps the color scheme ef :Memorial Chapel could be don over to colors mor~ pleasing to the little children who are to be required to attend assemblies. A nice shade of pink with blue fig·ures resembling animal crackers might be just the thing to keep every body happy including the faculty and admirustra tion. Union vs. Lehigh at Bethlehem,_ Champlain at Champlain, 3 p.m.; ca-ls, whicli. are very expensive not •decide between the two con- 3 p.m.; Graduate Council (-spring , varsity Golf, Union vs. Rc•chester: and difficult to replace, by cut- tributions appearing in the March meeting), OC, 10 a.m.; Glee Club at Rochester, 3 p.m.; Band te- ting out pictures, maps and ar- Srd issue or~the .,paper. Cor.se- Concert, Watertown Junior High hearsal, Gym, 4 : 30 p.m.; Pre-Law ticles. '(Ed. note. Covered by quently, ·both men were decided on School, 8:30 p.m.; Stud·ent Chris- club, English reading room, 7:30 New Yorlt state taw, fine: $30{}.) as winners of the contest. tian Movement <spring meeting) p.m.; Octavo singers, MC, 8 p.m. 4. Putting muddy feet c•n the Any stud,ent on -the campus· is at Lisle, N. Y. \The Beatitudes\ by Cesar shelves. ther.eby transferring the· eligible to win this award of a SUNDAY, APRIL 23-Sunday serv- Franck stuc'ent tickets 60c from mud to the volumes and pus-h- carton of Chesterfields as lc•ng as ice, Preacher, The Rev. Hanford Prof. Ewing, Chern. Lab. ing them back off the shelves .. the letter- is signed liy the author Let's Play Ball H. Closson, Grace Methodist · and- published by the Concordie!lsis. ---o--- 5. Hiding books in the balcony HOWEVJ!:R, due_ to the fact tha_t Church, Rochester, N. Y., Me, without charg' th t ., W I 'k Ch N B k mg em ou · ·student_s 'connecte-d wt'th publl'ca·- . e wou d h e to note with a great deal of satisfaction 11 a.m.; Student rlstian move- t t L . 1 N y ew 00 S 6. WALKING OFF with bound tions are not eug· ible to rec.eive this that the Memorial Field House Fund has reached the three men a 1 s e, · · · periodicals. award both wil:iners listed above ·quarte1· mark Vl'l'th ove1· $2'-0,000 pledged. T- h1's pape1· was MONDAY, APRIL 2 4-Daily as- t ··· - u 7. Using magazines to level off canno receive their Chesterfielcs. f th f . d . . · I h sembly, Junior prom committee, The follow1'ng volumes have been · Th d t one o e 1rst stu e_nt_ activities on campus to bac { t e drive MC M t b k · the tables and to stuff -in front e e i ors - therefore have • noeor.; - oun e an s movie, added to the college i1'brary recent- 1 t d N f r funds a d f l d th t b] t 1 d Oc 30 9 P ·of windows. se ec e ewcomer runner up in o n we ee prou a we we1·e a e o en our , 4: , 7 and p.m. \ rivate ly: - th t relatively small SUpport to the project. Life of Henry the VIII with 8. Smoking in the balcony an~ e con est as the individual to re- Charles Laughton, 25c; Philoma- Art-Konrad Fiedler: \On Judging leaving cigat•ette butts, matches cei:ve the cigarettes. However in the recent past many arguments and sug- thean Society, English reading Worlts of Visual Art.\ and ashes on the floc•r and on Simons is the editor -c•f the Idol, gestions have found their way to OUr attention and we must . room, 7:30 p.m.; crctavo Rehear- Biography-Peter Blake: \Marcel the shelves. student literary publication, and tat h th t · · f th · h d sal, MC, 8 p.m. Brewer, Architect and Designer\; Richards is photographer for the S e ere . a OUr OplniOn 0 e projeCt as Ull ergone TUESDAY, APRIL 2 5-Da_ily as- . Richard Ellmann: \~eatsl The 9 · ~:dA~::s~nE:!'!~ 0 ~ 0 e~~ bottles s_a_m_e_p_u_b_l_ic_a __ t_io_n_. ______ _ some change. sembly;M:iss Ruby Hurl\1Y of the Man and the Masks\; James G · \J F · 10. Leaving the bound volumes of Our gymnasium once the best in the east has reached American Assn. for the Advance- rossman: a.mes emmore h I ment of Colored PeQple, MC, Cooper\; Louise Hall Tharp.: Life and Moody's -in every al- t e pace where it is almost the poorest. Bas}{etball facilities, noon; UCCA !Marriage course> \The Peabody Sisters of Salem.\ cove except where they belong. just to mention one item, are in very poor condition as com- oc 2:30 p.m,; Mountebanks Building-Kenneth Duncan: \Hc•me 11. Taking current issues of the pared to other colleges. It is almost embarrassing to invite Movie, oc. 4:30, 7 and 9 p.m. Builders Handbook.\ • others to p):,l,y )1er~. \Private Life c•f Henry the VIII Education-Albert Lepn Guerard: with Charles Laughton, 25c; High \Education of a Humanist.\ • The Memorial Field House, if it is to be useful to the sc-hool Conference undet· auspices Etiquette.-Emily Post: \Etiquette: • 5 L A C K 5 greatest extent, should have a basketball court that will af- of International J:'l,elations Club, The Blue Book of Social Usuage.\ • ford the best, not only in playing area, but also the best in. oc, 3:30-5 p.m.; Public Lecture, Fiction-Joyce Car.y: \lvfoonlight\; .• T R 0 usERs. . , A MC, 8 p.m. Raymond F. Male George Orwell: \Down and Out • l,OOO Pairs to Pick From \'Iewmg area. floor that can be removed as desil·ed would \Mental Hygiene.\ !No· point in Paris and London.\ be ideal. · credit). GenetiCs-Julian Sotel! Huxely: • WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26-Varsity \Heredity: East .and West.\ • The cost, it is estimated by the office of Financial De- baseball, Union vs. Massa.chu- Humanitie-s-\The Humanities -C•f . Velopment, WilJ be about $12,000 with a yearly cost of $200 setts at Schenectady, 3:30 p.m.; Our Times.\ • ROCHESTER. PANTS STORE various magazir:es and leaving them any place and every place except where they got them originally. GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY to put up the floor and take it down. This would, with Varsity, LaCrosse, Union vs. Philosophy-Karl Jaspers: \The -· bleac~l'S, take up about one third of the total floor space ·bf Syracuse at Schenectady, 3:30 Perennial Scope of Philosophy.\ • Patton & Hall the f1eld house. Sport seasons overlap about nine days in • 41 ~ STATE ST. ,._ Upstairs x.:-RAY FITTING spring and fall so that the basketball court would not hinder Exp·Ianation • us state st.--stnce 1896 other. sports and yet leave sufficient space for 1'ndoor- track, · ~-~~~~~~~:~~=~~~:~~~;;;~~;;;~;;;~~~~~ tenn1s etc. -we are still in favor of continuing th~ informal student ; · · · · This :rnatt~r ou~ht to ~e given seri.ous thought by those faculty and administration conferences that in the past have who are plannmg this proJect of the field house not J'ust as been labeled and held at a rustic locale just outside of Sche- a dd d b t · d nectady called Tippecar.we. n a e expense u as an m ucement for greater support . We d·l'd not mean to imp· ly by our e_ditorial on this \UbJ'ect among students and alumni. \ last week That this conference should be a legislated or com- pulsory affair. We Oid however attempt to put across the · idea that there appeared to be some uncertainty not only on The Taming of the Shrew the part of students but also on the part of the administra- . tion as to the permanence of the conference. We wanted Next Friday .evening, April 28 • • .definite statements from the administration that they would Ml,ss Marg_ aret Webster's trmJ.pe of · · come-first-serve basis. The per- sponsor the idea each year if the other parties to the con- ShakespeaJ·ean players will present formance wil~ start at 8:30. ference were willing to go along. one performance of \The Taming THE ENTIRE production is Up to the present time includ-ing the conference-- itself of the Shrew\ at the Plaza Theater. under the direction of Miss Web-· there have be'en only· implications and rem_ arks abou. t tradi- Tickets, with prices starting at ster, who has for many years been $1.20, are on sale now at the Civic active both as an actress and a. <!;ion _which say nothing about next year o1· the year after. Players Tl1eater 'on Church Street; producer of ~hakespeare's works in >· ''!President ·Carter Davidson this week, howeVei;, put the Vincent DeBaun, Engli'sh instruc- this co•untry. Tl1e pre<~ent tour has admipistrEJ.tion on record as favoring· the idea of a conference t~n.· at 'Onio:n, is tl1e campus repre- enjoyed great succes~> throughout wherr-'he annou:ncea' to the Concordiensis that thE\ adininistra- sentative. Tl1ere are no reserved the Midwest this season. M'iss Web- · · · - seats. ::!310CS will be set Up to ac-. ster has stated t:fiat _the 5JO@ing tion WOUld SpOnSOr the ~Vent eaCh year if the ('!tUdentS ~lld . commodate the various price levels, performance has been geared. to a faculty felt the need for 1t. · 41Dd the aeats will JJe on a. first- college audlellce. And that is what w~ were looking tor, WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER T~E JAY JEWELRY CO • HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY R_epairing and Engraving Pens and the J;h~est Gifts Cornet State cind Center· Sts. C· .~-RIDA~ The .Public long J; Rober· unit v Ma,y 2 which tion is NEX :;;ponsoJ .populaJ lege-s, choosir be ope: D~riJ college .pieces . Davids ccoper: for co: serv-ice f-Lnne<t Omega THE to incl ·retical activit divide• ,. advah• .are -e 'once t be co dent dents three as th are r weekl At rolled seven vance studeJ f>hysi• in th• wi.H divisi these finish vance be wi TH plete eligib lieute serve dents _ catioJ Uni ,prese ing ·i basic inter• can taJ.;:e .and l RC Woi·l A Th like lis he dent Any spea. a.re 1 inseJ Conr nesd a.nyt T1 head cone Unh fron thea of r sive intr• time Int~ Bug ite -pro1 stud by 1 acti' how d.a!l luxt thin St wit! On now Wil .on 1 His votE ings styl ous ObSI · sho· moi inte tem T. tha: tioiJ and ~01 nou T ?re lnr spe; aes His .La.l

,~-R:IDAY;_ APRIL 21a ~9-50 .. ' .... ¢.~ Co_llege AROTC Unit To Parade May 20 By Robert C. Smith The Union College Air Force ROTC unit will make its first . public appearance on Armed Forces Day, lVIfry 20, in an hour long parade in downtown .Schenectady, according to M_aj or Robert R. Eaton, p1·ofessor of air science and tactics. The . unit will .. be accompanied by the Union College band. On· May 22, a fOl'mal drill prograr:n will be held on libral:·y field at which time honors and awa1·ds wiH be presented. An invita- tion is extended to .all stu~ents and faculty members to attend. NEXT YEAR, the unit p'lans to'•> --------- -- --- --·· ---- ::;ponsor a foz·ma·l-military ball. A navy in~o civilian colleges and uni- .popular eve:p:t in C•ther leading col-· versities. In 1946 the air fo~·ce leges,. the affair wm: include the>, established the fir~t Air Fo1 ce choosing of a prom queen and will ROTC unit. Now there ere 130 be open to all Union students. schools taking part in the program . DiS.ring February, the , regular· of which Unicn and RPI are th<' college fla.&:,: was liternally blown to latest additions tctthe fold . . pieces. At the request of President. ----- o ---- Davidson, the AFROTC unit was c f' ccopel·ative in sect1rir.g two fla);s . on' eren.. c. ·.e·' for collf)ge use_, Flag raising is a serv-ice to the college which is .per- f.L•rmed by IJieolges of Alpha Phi. su· .r B·al- ·z· a- ·c Omega, service frater.nity. THE AFROTC course is de~igned, to include both practical and theo- par Ngu~·t'n Dinh Hoa ·retical instruction concerning the Lundi svir, a la Vielle Chapelle, activities of the air force. It .is M. Rene de Messieres, CohseHier divided into two phases, basic and Culture! pres fAmbassade de 3 . ' .. ... ( Practice Air • In Drill PictW'ed are members of the Union College .Air Force ReseM:e Officers Training Corp during drill practice on the college grom1ds. The men will make their first public ,appeal'ance on Airmed· Fol'e&lii Day, May 20. 'The college .ba.tld will accompany the unlt in their hout•-long march down State street. ,. advanced.~ Both two year phases France, a donne une confer.ence .are ·elective at Union. However, sur I' oeuvre C:e Balzac, au com·s ·once the course is elected, it must d'une reunion de !'Alliance Fran- be completed to qualify the stu- caise de Schenectady a !'occasion ·~:~is f:usrat~~~ti~~ !~~~~gestbr ~~nc~ 50 :~eduani~~:~~ai~~n~:er~:i~~ union Host, to .stu.·d .. :ent.· Borm Notice Philos Busy three credit hours a week, wheie-· de mort du grand rcmancier Requeat ca~ds for dormltol'\ Members of the Union Coller e as those tn the advanced course . francais. M k St t A bl room 'l'eservations for .the Septem'- Philomathean ·society wm meet two ~l~~kr;:u~red to take five hours m~:Ce ~~~~~!~!e~~~~n ~d~~~= . . ·OC · : a .e SS_ ·em_ ... l .• : .-.· \Y· . ~:;~~b~u:ryt, 1d95o-5;tterm. ~~dn be i:~~Z~X:n~h~~:.iv~~~~iteofu~~;.~ At t · t \' l'\ t t d t 1 · · -r u e · c• orm ory ·res ents ·\om_\'\lG l·n· a debate o.n n~. tlo· nn·'l\\a- . presen , s1x y men are eh- c1on pour 1n ,ere ar en que ·e Th d A !1 27 Oth t c · t \'\ .. ~ ~ \' \'' ~ 11 d . h b . bl' d t d l'Atl t• / By Monroe K, . .;;llve,~oll urso ay, pl· . . er ~ u en s tl·o·n .n_f· ·induatz·y,· ro e .Jn t e as1c <:ourse, and pu IC e ce co e e an 1que \' ·~·~ bt 1 '\'d ·r th b I y ~ seven veterans are taking the ad- reserve a la culture europeenne, et. The Union College Philornathean socity will he host to the ~1ke 0 0: ~h~~·d:te~om e us neslil THE PHlLOMATHEANS will vanced trainjng offered. This year, francaise en particulier. L'auteur annual Student Conference on Public· Affairs this weekend. THESE RESERVATION cards expeJ•iment Monday, .April 24 in student enrollment consists of de la ·Comedie Hvmaine, dit-il, a eu Th · t d t k bl h ld • th :t t a threa-sld~d debate over W'RTJC at physics majors and eng.ineers, but !'ambition de p~indre ave{! sor · e aoncerence lS a S U en moe assem · ¥' e l'P. · e S a e must :be t·eturned to Miss Fleming ·8 p.m. P. 'Ro~er FQ!J.Wick, M:lUtcr in the fall it is expected that men. pinceau c'e mait1·e le vaste ttbleal' .assembly chambers in Albany. ·in the business office beginning ~nd Klau!l ElpplE:r will argue wUI be accepted from all four· de Ia societe francaise de s~·n INVITATIONS have been ex-~ ' Moni;iay~ May l, and will not be whether the .school year bll on.e, divisions of study. By the time temps et de reveler, en faisant res- tended tc· all coneges in New York S • Cl N · : acceJlted before that da;te. Room two or 'three &emeste_rlil. these non-technical students would sortir les moeurs et coutumes de state; this year, 24 colleges have eDJ.Or RSS · otes assignments will be made begin- The P~Uomll.t:Manll'debated Mid- finish their basic phase, the ad- l'epoque, ses propres idees de phil- accepted. Each coHege is allowed ning .May 1 0. Rooms wm be as- dlebury C<:>llege teama· Iv,st wl).ek .in va.nced•level of the program wcoul<. osophe et de penseur. A travers three delegates and three ·alter- The Senior Class Reumon f~nd signed in order of receipt of the A home-home s~:~rie~. JEdward· )3. be wider in scope. son oeuv.re de si longue haleine, nates. Accommodations a,re being t•eservation cards. Notice ·of room. Exner a~d Dc•nal~l &. Simmons de· TH.OSE STUDENTS who com- passe un souff-le contintl d' human- provided in the Hotel Ten Eyck. got underway to a fast :start today, assignment will be made by letter bat-ed the .negati'lle s1ee at Mld(lle- plete the four year course are isme, qui a eplique le role gue, Ur.ion's delegates are Klaus Epp- according to John J. DeBello, pres!- to the student's college address. 'llUt'y·: Lawrence J. Griswold. and eligible for appointment as second cest ecrivian a joue dans l'histoire. ler, P. Rogel' Fenwick and Thad-· dent. The first indivld\lal: }:>tetnium JN ACCORDANCE w:ith the col- Donald F. M!Uer debated the a.f- lieutenants in the air force re- du rolhai-n universe!. Dims un deus S. Rudzik. The a!te1•nates· payment on the .clAss lnsure.nee lege policy fl:lr housing students as !irmatlve at Union. lloth Union serve. Distinguished military stu- language a Ia fois concis et image, are Lawrence J. Griswold, Monroe 11 'd b Th E '1\K t fort-h in the ca.ta.lo~r, all stu-· tea;ms lost. dents a.re qualified to make a,ppli- M. d·e Messieres a reussi a faire Silverman and Donald G. Simmons. ;po cy was pal Y omaa · .-o t den~!! ·a;re required to live in the ..-.-\\\\'-- ....... ---~-------­ .cation for a regular .Qom'mission. apprecier, par de nomb!'euses cita- The delegates have been diviced before the £Tganizational meeting ~allege 'dormihn'ies with the fol- :to be e:x;cuse~ by the bus)~efls of- Union's program does not at the ttc•'ns tres bien choisies, !'esprit into three committees: higher edu- of the ftind representatives had . exceptions: 1. students liv- flee 0 r Miss Travis_, ijhoult:i ~rnmge ,present time include flight train- d'obsercation, la finesse de psy- cation, mental health, and financial. met. b.ome or in f1·aternity :howes,· for such permission before com- ing -ill- c-o•nnection with eitner the · ehologue et le style realiste ·du assistance to the municipalities: FIVE SENIORS have volun- man.i~d students, 3. students ex~ -me'ncement and n-otify Miss Flem- basic or advanced phase. Those celebre I'Omancier. Their work is appc•rtioned over the teered to have their names placed cused by Misrs Trav:is who ar& !ng. Pena;lty ·for violation of the interested in such training and who Apres Ia confei·ence, Ies · audi- three day period. on tbe insurance policies with tbe working .for their rooms, ~nd 4. above college rule will be In the can meet· the requirements may teurs ont ete invites chez les Silber THURSDAY EVENING there CIMs of 1950·as benelicia;ry. Tlw~;e ·ii!tUd.~te .excuued ·by 'the buainess amount of .. one semester's dc•uble tal,{e .it after their commissioning pour· y gouter du punch et des were .caucus meetings of the three •m·en 1!.1'€ Ed'Wa;l'd F; Layden, 'T~wii• office. ·room rent: $100. a.nd .graduation• fi•ianeises. La soiree ·s'est ter- committees in the Ten Eyck; 'the send F. MacCoun., Henry Ferguson, '.!.'bose students w;ho have .re.ase>n Buslnesa Office ROTC wrus first introduced after mine tres agreablement dans une members discussed policy, thus Thaddeus S. RUdzik• and Jolln J; Woi-ld War I by the army and .atmosphere inHme et cordiale. tacilitating l'utu~e action. On Fri- DeBello. day morning there was a general meeting .of the whole assembly at The following are among the men which officers - were elected and appointed by DeBello as fund· re-o rules adopted. Full committee presentative$: Rl<lharil W. RediQlt; meetings began this morning.·Open Seneca; Clarence F, Giles, SSNC~ hearings wi.ll be held on all bills, I. James Sinagulia, MSNC; Arthur Around Campus The Spanish club had its bi- with. expert witnesses provided by A. Welch, NSNC; Russell :1)4. 8pen- weekly meeting Tuesday night. the administration. cer, Wlldw.ood;.j.. Winthrop E. Stc•ne, Professor S. Paul Jont•s of the A benquet for all delegates will Elmwood; 'Wilson B. Spear and language departme·nt spGke on hls be held at the Ten Eyck this eve:· George D. Morrow, Dutchmen's By DAVID PALMER ®>--...:;:.--~--~~--- This column has been going over like a cement ·cloud, It is pub- lished for the benefit of the sru- dent activities of Union College. Any items concerning meetings, spealters, plans a.nd the like are are usable. Just write them up and insert them in the' mail slot of the Concordy office on or before Wed- nesday Qf each weelt. ·we print trip to Mexico. They are still try- ning. Prof. Samuel S. Stratton,, Village. lng to drum up a joint meeting lecturer in philc•sophy at Union and --------------- with the Skidmore Spanish club. a member of the Schenectady city We hope they are successful, be· council, will be the main spealter. cause we believe in better relations A GENERA~ meeting of the as- wt'th the aforeme~tioned associa- · sembly to consider committee re- llillythlng we oon rea.d. tion. ports will take place Sa This does- not come under the heading of Ari}Und Campus, but it Flash from the Mountebanks: concerns the campus of Brown \Night Must Fall\ by Emlyn Wil- liams, the author of \The Com Is ~~~er~~t;t ~:~~~~~f t~i 1 : bC:f:!: Green\ is now in preparation for morning; pari!iamentary nr.n<H>N1!1l'<> with a strict cloture rule will , followed. The bills will be voted' on, and all those passed will be. brought up before the New York State legislatl,lre in regular session. theater, the authorities ili- charge productiN1. The set, designed by of relieving the students of exces- Jack Milford, is now complete and sive stJ:ain aroru1d eixam time have is 1:eported to be on the same level Introduced cru·toon n1ovies at noonr of excellence as the sets of the Kunz on Civilization time. Called \Examtlme-Cramtiine group's other productions of this lntP.rlu_des\ t_hey ·have. established year. The play will be shown May Mr. F. L. Kunz, executive di- .,. 16 20 M\lf d · 1 1 · th recto1· of the Foundation of Inte- Bugs Bunny· a. s the c. ~m. pus favu''· - . I or IS a so P a ymg e • . . ~ ·• leading ro)e. • grated Education, spolte in Mem-. ite and have ·~lsQ by corttJ'IRst oriai Chapel Thursday noon on the ·proveil it stimulant for ·b-ook-weary The college radio station will subject \C!vilizatic·n-Its Cause and students,. \.r~e j;l}.'iJgranHs sp.onsored present t~e eigltth in a series of Cure;\ Mr. Kunz has spent 25 by tne stud®.t board in' charge oi broadcasts in cooperation with years' in the field of education in activlti'es, and: provides two half- the Amel,'ican Cancer Society e11- Ceylon and India. hour sh()wll with fo.m· cartoons titled '''For the Living\ starring THE SI'EAiffiR pointed out that dally, it !i~nis lUte al't ex~essive Edward G. Robinson and Herbei·t freedom is a consequence of order, luxury but· it. alsf? ij;:eei!ls like ·a The show is schedU'teu not chaos. When this nation was, thing that J:Jhdtild be 10:ol,(ed lnto. for Friday night at 8:15, and will young, we knew enough about Stanon WltUC ihas c~me through :featui·e music especially composed order to defend it. Since then a with what looll;s li:ke a good deal. for the broadca,st by Jeff Alex- complexity has grown up In this On every Wedaesda.y evening from ander. countrY fo•r which we :know no now on at eight o'cloclt, Tobey '!'he Union College glee club is order. LANGE& RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the sic:k\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE .1nd STATE STREET FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS Servirtg Union Since J9J J 166 Jay Street . 1 Williams will be heard digre·ssing holding a concert at Rochester u As a result of this confusion, we on the merits of :progressive music. this Friday evening according to · face Rus13ia today without . an His program last week was de- the latest from the department. It ideo logy of our own. Although voted. to a discussion on the shad- is being sponsored by the alumni the ideology of :Russia is erroneous, ings, balanpe, background effects, of that area in coc'Peration with it unites the country. Integrational style and accompaniment of vari- the University of Rochester. . education will provide the unifying· ous reoo•rdings. This form will be force, Mr. B:unz concluded. -~=============::!~.~ observed .on future programs. The I ~===============~===E;==========~ - · show ·is entitled ''Modern Har- II monies\ and should be of great interest to those of prog~·essive tempe-rament. The Delphic Society announces that at Its last meeting noJ:ninil,.. tions were held fOI' membet·ship and that, elections will be held on ~onday. The results will be an- noWl~ed on Pri~e •'])ay, M~y ,g, · ·The Union College Society of ?re-Law Students held llheir regu- lar meeting last Fride:y-. .f.l.'h!l .gue~t speake·r was Professor Samuel ·Me .· ltesson of the Albany Law .School. SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 .JAY STREET :a1s topic was ,''The Practil:le of x.a.w ~~~- .·!.l<.,. ,PJP.tes~h>JJ,\! . ,.,\' ·.', -lUm==•===::;:=:=::ft:::::=:=:;:::=::::::::::::::=======-=•q NOTT RESTAUftc- .... ancl BAR • .9 KI'GRI '.Oufsldft :t;;r .. a &cit. WINES .- LIQUORS aad 'IHI. ' Here, in the Textile Department of North Carolina State College, there is always a friendly crowd of stu- dents. And, as in colleges every- where, ice•cold Coca..Cola helps make these get-to·gethers some. • thing to remember. With the college crowd at .North Carolina State as ,with every crowd- Coke belong8. Ask }qr it either way •• , both trat!'-marlt~ mean ihe sam~ tlzing. IOTTLED UNDtR AUTHORITY Of THE COCA·COIA COMPANY BV S(lJIENEC'l'ADY COOA.COLA BOTTLING COMPANY @ 1950, The Coca•Colo Company . ~-

4 Cindermen Face .Trinity At Hartford Torit~YrO·w; Season's Chances Fair Arins C<H!ked, jol\'!\lln throwers Don WilSey and Captain Art Hagar spt th!\mse~ves for the season's initial test with Trinity tomorrow. Tog!\ther with Jack Fischel and Lou Muller, the javelin men are' probably the shongpst part of a weakened track team. Union Golfers Busy ·Digging Graves; Neurotic From Weather and Coach This is a strange spring. People~...:·:__~-----------­ will tell you that even if you don't \Don't you ever show y-our face ask them to. I think that this is around here ·asain! By and large, the f.it·st time in the history of man you hate your father. Go! We that a conversation about the cannot allow any father-haters on weather 93-11 be interesting, that is, my team.\ if you are not out fOl' a spring S!K•rt. If you are, it is stiJI ·disgust- THE GOLF team is so worried . ing. The baseball team will play that they have written a song to its first game with something like keep their spirits up. I think I four days of outdoor practice, the . can t·emember part of it. Garnet will field veteran men in the longt>r distancE's ard in the javelin. shot, and hurdling events. Frank Grabski has come along well. In the shot-put and, along with John Dvorscak, should provide the stl·ength in this fieii::!. Coach Bill Ketz seerns to have a great collection c·f javelin throw- ers in Captain Art Hagar, Den Wilsey, Jack Fischel, und Lewis Muller, where all of these men are reported to be potertially above 165 feet. Slg Giambruno seems to be the outstanding performer In the hurdles. next to McQueen. GEORGE WISOFF and Mert Wallington seem to have the in- side track for positions as quarter milers, while Atma.nd Nirdl!nger Townsend MacCoun, Abe Lakshin, Alex MacC{·rmick, and Dick Mech- anic will compete in the longer dis- tances, Newt Culver p1·ornises to dominate the half-mile because of· previous performances and also Donald Rose, Mert Wallington, and Don Burnham should · p1·esent strong showings In the sprints. Although the team is secure in several departments they cannot hope to maintain the pace set in the last twc· years ard would do well to come out with a winning season. Following the Trinity meet the Dutchmen will face Hamilton April 29, Champlain May 5, Roch- ester May 10. RPI May 13, and ·Vermont May 17. Aftei' the ·regu- ........ ..,..., ¥¥¥¥ .. Jacob's Pharmacy lacrosse team gets Its practice ses- \My mother's masochistic, my sions during games only, the track father is sadistic, team of Bill ~etz and Wolf Riemer Is in a helluva fix, and the golf teall:J has been out only twice-.-and Its first match is May 5. THE BASEBALL team isn't too bad off; all they have to worry about is Art Lawrence. The la- crc·sse team is in pretty gooc hands, but my God, th(l poor golf team! Just Imagine yourself being on the third gt·een. You have a three foot putt to make and you miss it. The coach gr·abs you by the aim and throws you off the course. Jar dual meet season the trackmen will compete in the RPI Invita- tional May 20, and possibly will enter the IC4A meet in New York City, May 27. For Car Troubles See a Union Man William H. Plath Auto Service 601 UNION. STREET • Save with the· CAMPUS AUTO CLUB L. G. BALFOUR CO. My sister leads a schizophrenic life. My father beats my mother, my sister hates my bi·other, And I am !coking for a crazy wife. <Chorus> Oh how we hate to be normal, It ain't no fun that way. Oh how we hate to be normal By the light, by the light Of Clare de Ia June.\ I forgot the rest. ART KEAN ---o•--- RIFLE TEAM The Air Force :Reserve Officers T1·aining corp rifle team, under the direction of Technical Sargeant Andrew Landa, will compete against Trinity College April 28 Fountain Servlc:e • BADGES • RINGS - FAVORS JEWELRY LEATHER GIFTS STATIONERY - PROGRAMS CLUB PINS • KEYS MED.A:U! - TROPHIES COMFORTABLE! GOOD LOOKINGIARROW PIPES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN (Cor. Not+ and Carrie). Write or call CARL SORENSEN SO l'ti~y Ave, Watertord, N.Y. PHONE TROY-ADAMS S;.J323 ~~nude Ranch\ Sports Shirts GAZETTE PRESS Short Sleeves $4.50 •Long Sleeves $5 For .that next square dance, for picnics, for sitting in the bleachers, you'll be most com· fortable, and look your casual best in one of Arrow's smart \Dude Ranch\ shirts. Bold plaids and checks in sturdy. washable cotton. Theire honeys! Printers .;ARROWsHIRTS & TIES UNDERWfAR • HANDKERC!ilEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS FRIDAY* .APRIL 21. 1950 Sports Calendar The Ephemen scored first, as at- tackman Fraser Moffat took a pass from Bobby Day an.d scored from in close at 4:50 of the first period. Just a minute later, Wjlllams~ Gordy McWllliams scored un- assisted, giving the Bay staters a 2-0 lead. Walt Causey garnered Union's initial goal at 6:26 of the opening. stanza, with Tom' Quinlan getting cre<'flt for an assist. SATURDA1:-Baseball-Union vs. .- Hobart. Lacrosse-Union at Lehigh, Track-Union at Trinity. WEDNESDAY~Baseball- Union vs. li:l:assachusetts. Lacrt•sse-Union vs. Syracuse. THURSDAY-Lacrosse - Union · Fresh vs. Troy High. · You'll find your Arrow sports. shirts favor- ites here. Take your pick from our fine collection of plaids and checks! solid col- ors! gabardines! - Every shirt washable! Come in TODA Yl NUSBAUM'S 447-451 STATE STREET FOR ARROW UNIVERSITY $1YLES I ·11 II ,.,. FRU ·---'\ .<·~,. - ~ .... ~ /• Th grad letes will $15:0 Into or.e gre1 His sma mea .rna mar Tn Met this . pc•un ,bJocl adve .Jatet· setts to e• •shap of h to' t: Of 1: thou seas' felt - Hi IJ.CCO play how - app~ ' the gift€ tin. AI out thar sopl: caus has vie VI play His to tl to : Mar !ish pair \W wor whe Foh Esk C; son· His Bul' to neei ,to 1 u last son rep· ing a:t . A the lilai for: pas

FRIDAY,·Af!Rl:L. 2-l, 195(t by ,__ __ JACK WEISS.....---' This ye;!.r, when the knife ·Of graduation ta:kes its toJI. of ath- letes, President Carter Pav.il'son will place a $15:00 sheepsldn itt to the ha11ds of Dutchmen Nine OppOses Hobart In ·Opening Game By William l:I~rrman or.e of greatest His name small, but its· meaning is com- manding t-o many. The cry of \Play ball!'' rang ottt a:Jl over the land this week as the 1950 Baseball season got under way, and tomorrow . afternoon on Alextlnder field Art Lawl'ence's Garnet nin,e takes up the ca-ll against the Statesmen of Hobart at 2:30p.m. THE DUTCHMEN mark the 0 ----------~--­ ·In 1946, Coach, Mel Hein welded this athlete's 170 , ·completion of 90 years of athletic Gompetitic•n this year, JY)ay 19, 1S59 U'nlo!!'s probable starting lineup beir·g the date that a group· from wH lfind John Togneri at first, AI Union n;1et the Amster<~am ;Mo- Wade at secane', Diek Munrc•e at J}C•u'b.d tan torso a systemized ,blocking back. However, \ith the advent of a new coach one year -later, this Plymouth, Massachu- setts stalwart developed hfs abiilty to eyen a gi·es.tet• degt,ee. He was •shaping up fine and one the eve of his junior rear, he was tu1·ned to' tackle position under the wing of line coach .Art Lawrence. Ab though he- was hurt ea11iy in the season, his presence was grea't1y felt in his four game participation. ' His senior year was an acme of , accomplishment and those who · · played with a11d againSt him knllW bow great. he' was. The proof is i - apparen~ that Uruon~s Uneman of the year was a modest, talent gifted athlete called \Pepper\ :[\'[a.r- tin. Although \Ted\ Martin's coming · h~;twks in the colleg,e's first rec- ·short, and Cookie Sherwin at third. orded spo~ts event. Union has The outfield will see Bob Staley fielded 85 teams since then with a in .right, Walt Krupa in center, and record of 484 victories and 403 de-· either Chick Meehan or Roger ,feats. Sheldon in left. Cal Schmidt will Tomorrow's game will ,be the handle the catching. Lawrence may 31st .meeting of the· two teatr.s split up the pitching assignment since they first met in 1882. Of ,between Carsky and McQuade or these, Union h!!-S won 20 games to possibly Ka.znowski as he does not Hq)>art'!l 10, the Statesmen taking . think that any of tb,e boys are 1!lst pne, 5 to 3 in 1944. Not ready to go the full nine innings. Oldtime ·Garnet Nine out party ~as somewhat eadier. than Pepper's, the forqJ.et• is new a .. sophomore at Union. This W:?-s , : caused by a shc;>rt Navy !He. Ted has had a m~·re overall collegiate .. view of football fields, having playell for both Harvard and Yale, ' His fir-st season .last fall proved to those in. question that Ur ion was to see the l'ise of another gre!lt .. Martin. Once again- it i~· w~th rec !ish to say great things travel in pairs. WORD HAS IT: Union will have world travel athlet¢s this Sutnmer.' when Tom QuinTon and Larry Foley leave for Alaska to make . Eskimo love , .. Carroll WittQ.er-Ua.l\s Number Z son-has been accepted at Union. His Z25 pound frame is how at Bullis Academy. ''If\ he dqes come scheduled last year, the scheduled FOULS: Lawrence's to Union, then the1•e wiil be no games with Hopart were rained o.ut staff has been increased neea £or Coach Sam Hammerstmm ·the three previous years. , this past wee!' with the add-ition c•f · ,to look for a -Center . :. . . . HOBl\.RT lost its openir:·g Pete Del Santo, Minty D'At•cangelo, Un:ion~s.'lc•ss was •Obertin's ga~n Tuesday to Cornell, . 7 to 6, in a . and Bill :Harris to tne four ·regu- last year· when \Professor J;!Jodgett's fracas which saw both teams suf\ . !ars. All seven boys now share the son ifeff enrolled there. J,i'rom all fering from first-game jitters. , hur!in\g cl:!ore at batting practice reportshe made a wondeFfui sP,ow- Boach ;lllddie Tryon's boys then . . : Ccokie Sherwin's bullet-like ing pl!J,ying .:his first foc;>tb!lli year took off on a two .garn,e road trip ·tosses from third to first have a:t end .. , _ playing R.P.T; this afternoon al;id taken Togner's glove oU more than AI- (Rocky) Tropp has decided to invading Schenectady tomorrow. one. Even Bob Feller couldn't the shed the cloak of nntJ],a:rikful The probable stat•ting pitcher thr-ew a mucb harder ball . . . lilainu;ger and' don a football uni- ag~inst the Qarnet will be either Fteshmen hopefuls have been try· form. His gl)al will be to catch righthanders Bob St. John or Ash· ing out with the varsity all this pasSes mstea(l ~f the us\\}al \hell.\ Gale, or southpaw Dick Hunt. week ... The ·= }Public Opinion-NOTHING IS STRONGER •• • -given thejacts NOtHING IS WISER On the Owners .. of Business A ''community\ estimated at some 14,000,000 people o_wns American busin~ss. The .Bell Telephone sys- tem is owned by 940,000 stock· holders. ,(;eneral Motors is owned by 436,000, Pennsylvania Railroad by mure than 202,0~. * * * There are more stockholders in the U.S. than there are farmers. More than the membership of the C.tO. More than the membership of the A.F.L. Certainly stock· holder!:! ar~ nQ \privileged few.\ * 67 ;000 more stockholder$ now have a share in General Electric's ownership than 15 years· ago. · There are 80,000 more owners .of General Electric than there are employees. Today's total of stock· holders is over 250,000. Of these more than 215,000 are individuals .. 65,000 General Electric employees are participating in a plan which -encourages .savings. Investment in U.S. Savings Bonds gives them a bonus of G-E stock for bonds held five yea1's. * * * Comp~red with the boom year of 1929, American businesses have collectively increased their pay· ments to their stockholders by 45%, and their tax payments to government by 678%. * *. * Anything that injures the owners of business directly injures 14 million people. It destroys the pro· visions that they have tried to make through tl:ieir mvn efforts for security. Anything that injures the security of these 14 Qiillion people also injJLres -the security of those who rely on invested capital for th~ tools an9, jobs they need to make a living. You can eut youT confidence in- GENERAL fl E.LECTRIC 5 . Shaffer Top N'ominee For Scotia Post Leading slugger on last ye!lr's team, Staley, Art La\vrence, and Captain AI Wade appear ready for the start of what may be a successful season as they start against Hobart College to- morrow afternoon. Frosh Stickmen Intefisify Workouts; Open With Troy YMCA ·on April 27 Under the careful coaching of~ M - - · 1 Skip Eccles,. the f're:;hman lacrosse I as:;., to P ay Deerfield Academy ,eam ·is readying for its opener J.V. Then the bo.vs .. from the In- with the Troy YMCA on April 27 stlt~te come to the college. on the at 4:30. Although the team has ~ 111 • .~~: last game ts With the been practiCing for the past four. rMoy at Troy. . weeks new candidates for the ost of the squad has had no squad' ar·e \\'eirome to come out at pt evJ~us lucro:;:;e expenence, but my time. the Gafnet sttckmen are hoptng -:1!'- for a successful :;ea:;un. SATURDAY following the fir:;t SKIP ECCbES, the new frol\lh game, the time will travel to Kim- mentor, has had plenty of experi- ball•Union Academy at Meriden, ence playing mi_dfield for both Na'l'y N. H. The frosh ten go. across the· and Princeton. In '49 he was bon- river to Troy to play the Institute's orable mention All-American and engineers. For the next game the played in the North-South All-Star · Ecclesmen travel to Deerfield,. game. Pending approval of the Scotia Board of Educat!on, Harold .(Brud) Shaffer, co-captain of last ,season's top-notch Union College football team, will relieve Doug McManus of head football coaching d\ltiea at . Scotia high school next season. No official appointment l:ll'ts 'been made a.s yet, b1.1t it Is expected that Shaffer's recommendation oy Su- pervisor W-illiam Martin to the Sco- tia board at its 1iay 9 meeting will be approv·ed. Doug McManus, who has handled Scotia high football for the past . fi.ve years, recoznmended the Union College football star to Martin after McManus asked to be relieved of some of his physical education duties. McManus's physical education duties cover not only Scotia high out Mohawk, Lincoln, Sacandaga a:nd the Scotia junior high schools. If and when Shaff-er is actually appointed by the Scotia boal'd, he will handle the head football coach- ing duties in addition to teaching English in the high school. Father of three boys, tl).e 26-year- old Shaffer was rated by his coach, John McLaughry, as the outstand- Ing plaY'er\on the undefeated Union eleven last season where he played gua;rd, center and tackle. He will be .g!\aduated from Union in June after four years of foot- ball, tw'o as .guard, two as cent-er and at odd times, tackle. A fine all- around playe~. Shaffer W!i!S co-cap- tain of last season's team with quarterback Dave Strauss. He served three and a half years in the marine cor:ps after being .grad- uated fto!ll Nott Terrace high school, where he established him- self as one of the best· linemen in the school's history. - - EVERY DAY THOUSANDS· ARE PROVING CHESTERFIELDS SMOKE Copyrl&ht 1950, Lloorn & ,Mvw ToBAcco Co, The Aroma TeUs You ••• '\ We tobacco farmers know that when tobaccos smell milder they smoke milder. That's ltow smokers can know that the mild, ·ripe to· baccos Chesterfield buys !rom me and hundreds of other farmers will taste better, smoke cooler and much milder. Tha~s why I?ve smoked Chesterfield for 15 years. (SlONE~- 1M #.1!}~ ft.;: ~_,.,.,. • ?.AA:: .... H. C. and eni«»Y 111ore smoking pleasure than· any other \\' cigarette can give 'JOU• Tfl£ BEST CIGARETTE fOR ,.YfJU TO SMOK£

6 FRIDAY, APRU. 21, 19$0 Brains ·Gain Free Cuts Stud~nt Sex Life Jandreau Explains Stand Fl'ank E: Lord, Euc-t Loshak, Hat·- Robert w. schaefer, E\iward .s. Studied By Sag~s, :Of Oqsted Loc.a} UE 301 (Marl{ing pel'iod ending March 24, 1950) Charles p, Abba, Will!a:m S. Ab- bott, Nathaniel B. Allan, Fredericlt S. Allen, Mariano AJ.lend, · WilHam S. Anderson Jr., Elmer H. Anton- sen, Eugene R. Bailey, Thomas E. Baker Jr·., *Irwin S. Barg. Joseph G. Barone, Silas R. Beatty, Norman Becker, Eugene J·. Benman, Dean E. Bensley, Floyd C. Bentley, *Jose Bermudez, Albert E. Bertram, Howard Bind<'lglass, Norma-nd C. Blais, Mm tin J. Blicltstein, Ml'lvin H. Blitz, Buleslaus A. Bogdan, Leon M. Borden, Harold A. Braun, Robert P. Brisson, Howard L. Brody, F!·ederick K Browe. Wil- liam C. Bucltingham, Robet·t E: Burner, Amold l. Burn>J, Edgar R. Butts. Frederick F .. Cannan. •Paul A. Carbone, James C. Carey, Edgar F. Chandler, Raymond H. Chu, Ed- ward S. Clark Jr., Hu~c· G. Clear- water, Savi W. Clough, Jay N. Cohn, Robert D. Conklin, George W. Cooper, Guy F. Ccop<'r, Daniel J. Copans, David C. Cornl'lius. Bvadfot·d K. Coryell, Don M. Crc· gier, RichaTd P. Cuddy, Harrison N. Cul\·er, Richard 0. Davis, Har- old J. Daw, Frank J. Debt ick, Wil- liam DeLorenzo Jr., Gilbert J. De- Lucia, Dermc-t J. DeMis, Jay V. Dewell, Robert F. DiiJbl<·, Gabriel B. Di Cerbo, Roster P. Diane. Vin- cent P. Donnelly, Walt<'!' P. Doran. Thomas F. Donlon, James F. Dor- rtll. Allan M. Doyle JL. ;).lax P. Dreyfuss. John C. Du ::\lonL William H. Eigab!'oadt, Gerald Ente, *Klaus Eppler, Albert Es· posito, Robert A. Fairbanks, Fren- cis B. Fassnacht, Pl'l<'l' P. Favata, Paul R. Fenwick, Henry Ferguson, Anthony V. Fiacco, Alvin Firth. Ar- nold S. Fisher, Carlon S. Flint_, Hy- man Fl01ence, Donald G. Forsberg. GerR!d G. Foster, S. Bruce Frank· lin, David G. Ft·el'ton. Irwin Fried- >.,man, LionPl Furst, Jost>ph R. Gab- riels, Albt:l t J. Gu!tl'tta, J u;cph J. Gardesld, James ::>!. Gavin, Rich· ard F. Gebhardt, Hany :\L Geh- man Jr .. Gt>r<Jld G. Geismat, James L. Gemmell'. Ric hat tl A. lienthnet, lsak \'. Getsun, Clat<·nct· 1•·. Gtle:;, Stephen \V. Gillespie, Richard J. Gillis, Gerald G. Gonyea, Myril :>I. Green. Lawrenct• Gn•enbeq~. Davis W. Griffith, Hugh C. Griffith. Os- car Grusky, Alfred F. Ctyceski, Donald L C:Ut'l'tin. ~1icha<'l J. HRgP, Rich:ll·d S Hal- pern. EU~f'nP HalpPrt. John Harn· den Jr .. Murray \V. Harper. Ger- ald T. Harris, Hubett B. Harris, William G. Harris, Ashton W. Hart. Rob<\rt E. Hayes, Harold F. Heath Jr., Theodore P. Hetlyn Jr., Leon· ard W. HPrrick, William A. Hio, Rc•nald C. Hirschfeld, Keith A Hitchins, RobPrt H. Horn, Alan Howard. Shl'lton S. Jackson, Earl W. Jennison. Raymond E Johnscon. Rlrhard M. Johnson. Harlan R Jueng!ing, Inn P. Kaminow. Fred S. Kantor·, David J. Kavee. Irving Handler, P<\t<'r M Kt·lly, James F. Kenney, Robert H. KC't- chum, Alfrf'd H. Kin~on, Jerome 0. old L. Lundstrom Jr. Setchko, Robert -Simpson, Myron Are college campuses -centers of. ·\\''~~-~-~~-~----~~- .·:_, - - -. Leo Jandreau,. business agent of~- Thomas H. McCabe, Graham H. J. 'Sunderland, *Elizabeth E. Thot•n- ·immorality? The headlines have. M C . 11 - R- - h d w M·c · R b' ·b M · H. w· k H - d Loca:l 301 of the United Electrical. unions, but this wtts still not \ c. a , rc ar · . c ann, o - uvg, · aurJCe . ee s, . owar often given the public this lmpres- · t J M . c b · J R-. \ ·t r M 'E w· d\ p· · 'i Pi y (M\ ) Workers Union, spoke J:refo:re the enough for the workers: Jaildt•eau er . · c ou rJe· r., o.,.er · c- · ·. · 00 In, e - ng en · ··S, ·sian at at last a national ruaga- Enroe, Thomas V. 'McLaughlin, Union College Economics Discus- noted. · What was- desired ·was a Townsend F. MacCoun, Paul K. Fifth Yea-r Students In •reacher ,zine has come to the rescue of the. sion group, April J. 7 , on labor milan run by tb.e membei>shJip, not Mader, John C. Ma:isel, Calvin L. . Train:ing ·college student's honor and 1•e- international in scope, T-he U,E. . . . prO>ble:ms in Schenectady. He em- was inh'oduced to G.E. in- 1936 Malin Ita, Martin B. Mandel, Ma:rco Iva-n A, McDona·ld'. . spectibillty. The May issue of· '-' 1 G E M kh - phaslzed the workings of the local under the leadE:)rshlp· of Loo J'an- ~·~a·rcopu as, eorge · ar · am Coronet c·o•ntains an article,' \Sex Jr., Alan D. Martin, Duncan· S. .Special Student union, its type of organization, and. dreau. Martin, George Edgar Martin, On the Campus?\ which t·epOJtSI the local labor isuess. ,, M:r. Jandreau is of the opinion Julian R. Mayer, Daniel Mead, Kenneth R. Abr·arns. that these lurid stories are a weak . 'THE NEED for a well inte- that the press has not propevly Richard C. Me<~hanic, WU!iam F. , mixture -of hearsay, half-truths and· elucidated the issue now at hand. Sepcial.Students fl'cti'on. grated Iaboz, organizatoins, said. Th , · Meehan, Donald ·0. Meserve, Philip e. 'jssues\ presentt?d to the ;peo- W. Metzger, Bernard L. Meyers, D. Scott Anderson, :S:ans Walther · TO UNCOVER the facts behind Jand•reau, was brought to light as pie h!as been and still is Com- Richard F. Miller, Alfred Moslms, Held, *Stephen S. Israel,,*William :the sex screen of gossip, CcHonet. a result of the many discrimina- 'munism. Mr. Jandreau feels his Howard s. Mc•cUn, Hugh Mont- H. Meyer, Donald F. Mlllet•, Nor- enlisted th~ experience of people: tions practiced by the General uniop is. \being unjustly accused gomery, Thomas I. Moran, Robert • bert F. Pick!. who ·know college students best- mer,eJy because it dissents with a A. Muhlberger, James M. Munay, *Index-5.000 educatm·s, college officials, soc!- Electric Company against the great many people in accord._ on Robert F. Munay, Richard W. olc·gists and the students them- labore~·s. Prior to the inception of various issues.'' • Meyers; Ronald A. Na:ckman,. The students listed below at- sel-ves. The answer from 250 col- the- U.E. into the G.E. El~nt, there J.'UST~FYING the unio'!l stand, James R. Nelson, Raymond A. Nel- tained al;l average of 3, or above, leges was unanimous· college stu- were. no reco!l'nized holidays f~r .Jandreau stated \If Henry Wall~ace son, Boa Nguyen-Dinh, Armond N. but are not carrying the 15 hours dents are as moral' ~s any other: workeD!; marl'led women were latd was the man· to help labor, then he Nirdlinger, Charles W. Nordwall, required for a normal schedule. group of Americans. . . ?ff; workers. :were fired for smo·k- was the man to back.; if the de- Donald A. Nussbaumer. They ai'e ·excused frc•m the absence. THE ARTiCLE' cites severa.J ,~ng on the Job; the compaz;ty was.· va'luation of the pound was 'an Gerald F: Olm, Gerald E. rule. .cases .of so called sex delinquency m. n? V~ay regulated as to Its dis- out-and-out cut in wages' for tlie O'Loughlin, Donald Ei. Qlsen, Her- Louis G. BatkieWicz, John H. which came a:bout because of. the· crm:matory practices against the laborer, then there was little .good bert Olsen, Herman E. Opitz, Bela Bc;>wet·s, William H. Conklin, Ed\ lack of a basic knowledge about' workers. accr'uing fr•om it; if EtR.P. was B. Paine, John H. Pape, .John M. mund G. Cummings, Thomas F. 'sex and female hygiene. \The privileges now held by the not J.ocally endorsed, it was be- Pardy, Walter L. Pelham, ·Fl!ank Cunningham Jr., John J. De Bello,. One Western college states that: G.E. la:borers were realized only cause it did not benefit labor here A. Pepe, *Ralph H. Petrucci, Frank Louis D, Greco, Donald W. Holmes, . they found that the cause of a: through constant pressure exerted, ar abroad. The u.'E. is qeither pro- A. Pietropaoli, Patrick J. Pisaniellc-, Frederick H. Kuitems, Wi)liam wave of student disorders \\las their by the U.Ijl. the job accomplished Communist, pvc-Republican, pro- Arthur G. Pitt, David Platt, Law- McC!ennan, George :R. Macaulay, outmoded t•egulations. Since the by U.E. has been O·f gte11.t benefit Derr:ocrat, nov pro· any other poli- rence E. Pm·celli, Martin Portnoy, Joseph A. Mendelson Jr., Paul R .. students had a 12 o'clock deadline to the community as well_ as to tical grOl!P as a whole. No >O<ne Clarkson N. Potter, Brock H. Palmer, Robert J. Pletman, for parties, they had been going: u,e workers themselves,\ Jandreau .man in the U.E. is spokesman for Powell, Kenneth N. Pratt, John C. Thomas R. Quinlan, James A. off the campus )lc· \hop-spots:• in- said. union policy, each man is respoq- Printon, Ralph E. Prusak, Thomas Ramsey, Harold R. Shaffer J-r., stead of attending college dances.. ·CRA:FT l!nions VI ere at one titre sible to and for hin:se!f. As a re~ •. H. Putman, Mitchell W. Rabbino. K,enneth S. Sheldon Jr., David B. After the college revi~e1l their• the only labor -organizations in the suit of our not concurring w-ith Sam Rabinowit:;:, Ralph C. Reed,· Strauss, Richard J. Cullivan, Hart- regulations without curfews t:he up- Schenectady area. Graft unions the .pclicies of the C.I.O., the U,E. Richard Relltin, James W. Rich- ley W. Vest)', John R. Vesty. surge of misconduct fell off. were superseded by company was. ousted fr.cm the organization.\ ards, Arthur H. Rosenfeld, Leslie E. Rudolph, Thadt'eus S. Rudzik, Robert H. Rukgaber. Robert L. Sanstead, Nicholas T. Saviam· Jr., Ferdina-nd J. Schuette, Adolph F. Schultz, Leonat•d S. Schwartz. Eugene N. Schwartzman, Robert J. Settzo, Walter J. Shattes, Rupert G. Sherman, Melvin A .. Shiffman, •Lothar Shnitltin, Mar- tin Siegel,' ::>1onroe Silverman, StephPn J. Simons, Richard A. Ritts, Joseph G. Skypc, David I. Smith, Eric H. Smith, Robert S. Smith, Arthur D. Snyder, William E. Sollccito. John W. Stauffer. AIPXander M. St0in, Charles D. Stewart. Arthur M Stockman, AIRt1 Stone. Thomas M. Strong, Jackson S. Stroud, William S. Szypula. Warren J. Thoresc·n, Richard P. Thorn, Edward J. Tisdell Jr., Jo- seph M. Tofel, Barry N. Traub, Henry T. Trojan. John R Turnier, Louis A. Ul'bano, Richard W. Van Hoe_sen. William C. Van Ost, Ar- thm· M. Vesh. Jules R. Ville, •Rob- ert M. Walker, Medford S. Webster, John G. Weisheit, John A. Weiss, James J. Welch, Martin S. Wer- man, Robert L. W<>st, Edward F. Weyand, Richard P. Whipple, Wil- liam G. Wilkie, Henry N. Williams, Robert W. Williams, Alan R. Win- tcrbet·ger, George Witkowski, Wil- liam G. Witzigman, Albert K. \Vohlers, Lawrence J. Wolfman, Paul J. Wotods. Frank E. Young Jr., Harvey F. Young, Philip F. Zaccheo, Richard B. Zeliff. Graduate Students Kll'in. Howard H. Kloth. Edwnrd John E. Fagel Jr .. William J. W. Knight, ChHr!C's F. Koch. Alan Gold, •George F. Hanson. Gilbert R. Kahn. ~'Iyrr-n 1 Komarzanski l 1 H. Holtz. Hubert J. Kelly, John F. Komar, Eugene F. Krautter. Law- I Madden, Mervyn M. Morse, Celeste renee s. Kroger. Leo Kuperschmid. II Mrs.) Prehmus, Penelope C. Sayre, James J. La Forest. Jvhn I. Larkin. t:Tpl.llm/Bv.tJey, 4fitltl/eJu'Y- 38 A1r llllellt~ence, t/S. Air Nrt:e Edward A. Larson, Robert A. Lau- ~ .. dise, HatTy R. Lawton Jr., Edwald F. Layden, Robert M. Lea, George I. L~aron Jr., Edward L. Lee, *Alfred A. Leszeznyski. Leorard S. Levine, Richard Lieb, Chade,; F. Lindstrom, Rtchard H. Lo<>ber, Clayton L. Long, Robel t A. Loper·. SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE ... Near FERRY .. . 1n your slack time choose your Spring slacks at • GENERAL HARDWARE • HOUSEHOLD GOODS • PAINTS David Mahoney Company 209 St~te St., Phone 3-3691 129 S. Brandywine Ave., Phone 3-3692 An e,xcellent student at Middlebury Col- lege, Vermont, Paul found time to win the coveted All Sports TroiJhY in his senior year. He graduated in June, 1938. His big plane education was topg€Jd with 23 missions over the far-famed \HUlllp flying C-54 transports. After V -J Day, he stayed on in the Far East until March of 1948~specializing in Air Intelligence. He then joined a coated paper mill fir!n as research and control man. Pearl Harbor changed all that-Paul went to Maxwell Field to-· begin Aviation Cadet training. Back home, after accepting a Regular Air Force Commission: Captain Buskey went to Air Tactical school, was there rated an outstanding student, and won assignment to Command and Staff school. If you ore single, between the ages of 20 and 26lt2 with at least two years of college, consider the man; _career opportunities as a pilot or navigator in the U.S. Air Force. Procurement Teams are visiting many colleges and universities to explain these coteer opportunities. Watcn for them. You may also get full details at your nearest. :Air force Bose or U. S. Army and U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station, or by Writing to the Chief of Stoff, U. S. Aii'Force, At!; Aviation Cadet Branch, Washington 25, .D. C'. An outstanding Cadet, 2nd Lt. Paul Buskey was held over as an instructor after graduation. Then he was assigned as a pilot in the Air Transport Command. Today, Captain Buskey is an Air fntelli~ gence Officer on MATS Headquarters Staff at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington, D. C. He looks forward to a rewardiug futtp'e in the U. S. Air Force. _ U.S. A.IR FORCE __,... - . 9NLY THE BEST CAN BE AYIATlON yADE~Sf·- p Fr« ~om have And I• year· chan Davi· afte1· Phi .fenn St. atte11 Cam ~ ....... At char man late< 'braii Uni< N. , mak 80% cone Tl Silli Phi up bool Ma~ erty usee :M the dirt woo Cieii wit! late war plat gro· I'll fo-r ~ gif1 tha a g of ste· wa: at nu1 g'a:-j sig fia1 an• Th chi Wil De I l pl th T1 H t(J al ar Do di tl:! D tl;i ~ G hl tr t< Cl ci ci t! r: d a tl n tl s .t (j t I 'C

Late-- Bulletin ,. • • trnsts Founded at Union Collejje ill 1877 PRICE 1·0 CENTS Fred 8. Kantor of ~rooklyn li.IJ,d ~onalq Q, Jennett .of l'lattsbmg have .peen selooted t() attend st. And1•ews. Univ€irsity, ScQtla:nd, ~xt year~ as the Union College Ex- change student, President Carter navidson ~nnounced early this SCHENECTADY, N. Y., :FRID·AY, APRlL 28, 1950 afternolm. KIJ.ntor is a membe1· of Vol. 77, No. 24 Phi . Sigma Delta fratf;lrnity ~d • .fennett is a inember Of Delta Phi. _...._. __________________ ,.......,...._..__.,.__ ...... ___________ - ______ ...... __________________________________________ _ St. Andrews ,stmiertts who will n· ' Ch' . Ch 'll IFC A th . attendl:tnionnextyearaJ•eWilliam':' ' : 1' '' ''' '· .. ·a .. :: e .. n.·g· .·· ... · ·e· ,S '': ,:''; :, ' '' 'U· · ... · ·, '.·' ··ori· ty· ' Campbell and Dona.ld .Bunce. ' , .. : · .· ·.. • •. -=~==~======='='= =·'' ' \ '• A.'round . C d.d f Cl E' • -~----~.~ The members of Delta Chi fraternity voted un- fl1 .an· l ·ates Of .. aSS J.ecbOllS' animously at their Thursday meeting to withdraw ..t' OU'n: CLASS OF li)Sl ~ ·CLASS OF 1952 ~ C'LASS OF 1953 their offer made i:n a note to the Interfraternity By .James ~·. Bry.son :, Any Word from the w.orld! of.' chance is rtews in this town this month. The st:rang~st story yet re- lated, .however, -is the ra:id on the 'branch office of the Western Union Teleg·raph Co., in Trenton,: N. J.; on 8J gambling and book- making warrant. It is clu:trged; that' 80% of the business transacted concerned ba1=1gtail~~ ~ ·~ If. :President · President •President ~ · Council to pay either a $20 tax or contribution to the ;~~!:;tA..~~!~~s;er i~~~~ ~. cg~~~her ~~~b~.A~~~~:fman council, according to William H. Maynard, president Edwin E. Wheeler Benjamin B. Thelin of the fraternity. .. William A. Tuthill ---------------4, This action by Delta Chi Vice-President l,rrederick S. COI!klili Rowan J .. Coyle Richard 0. Davis David H. Fithian Secretary Wolfgang J. Riemer A. Gerald Shapiro Tl'OO!!Ul'er Robert H. Horn Thomas. J. Micarelli Vice-President Vice-President Norman Thomas ·leaves the IFC with two al- r;:~~r ~~rWa~~!ck ~~~~~rsT~~~~ · ternatives, said William j. Sem•etary Rc•nal'd Q. Jennet Kenneth Sohneelock TreasUI-er Stanley G. Peschel Secretary William R. Holzapfel Treasurer John B. Rees Michael L. Wolfe Hartnett, president of the council. Either the IFC will • take no further action and ' allow Delta Chi to remain on The elections are to be held on Monday an9 Tuesday, May 1 .and 2, in Silliman, ball. Petitions for student co.uncil, bearing 15 names must ·be in the student activities office by 4:30 eon Monday, May 1. · three months' social proba- tion, or the IFC may meet sometime today and take de- finite action, such as suspen- sion or expulsion from the council. Those people who left books in Silliman hall to be sold by Alplm Phi Omega jtre again asked to .pick up their books and mo:ney. All boolts and money not picked ·Up by May 15, 1950, wil,l become tl)e prop- :.'!'d. ;~:':::..~:·F~t.:m •• Flana!Jan Provides Danceabil.ity r=-m::.::s~.::;;~::J:: of its failure to pay a $20 tax set Medical experts are investigating ~ Guaranteed d a·n c e ability~·~·.;--.-.------------ by the IFC last month to under- the nutrition derived from eating c bo l u and \practically continuous\ ' write the council's activities, and dirt, Pre~ant women in back- . U· ,· IC :e· se· . th k t f IFC .si·ng .set principally, a freshman handbook. woods Louisiana go for the an• mUSIC are e eyno es 0 . cient element in a big way. Along Carpe Diem-· enjoy yourself · In a conference wjth President with denim evening gowns, the P·. rob. I\bl·.ted' -n.ext Friday m,·ght in alumni' The annual Inter-fraternity Carter Davidson, fraternity rep• 1 t t d · th f hi bl Sing will be held J)'riday night, resentatives learned the Interf·ra- a es wor m ·e a~:~ . ana e gym. Promaestro R a I ph M 5 · M c world might well be a heaping H l I W bb li '. a:y • m emorial hapel at Norman Thomas, leader of the . ternity Council bas the power to platter of 'l'ich moist loam, on the e :(ner -'· . e • CO. ege Flanagan has assured the: 8 : 15 p.m. Two couples on the- • .American Socallst party, told Hnion limit fraternities in IFC affairs, grounds that \I'll be damned if librarian, announce\i that all prom committee that inter-. faculty will be the judges: Dr. students today to get interested in. but the body bas no power to place I'll let a carrot pray middle-man desks, chairs and popular missions will be at a mini- , and Mrs. Douglas Campbell and straight thinking on subjects which a fraternity on social probation, f 't · \ b d · di·. I Mr. and Mrs, James W. Morley. are now affecting the future of the suspend rush1.\ng or !1\m1·t any fra- or my v1 amms. oun pe.I'lo. ca. s were re- .mum, an· d that the danceab1'l- Th f t ·ti '11 h :;; ~ ~ h e ra erm es Wl sing in t is world. ternity in any other way outside Miss Saralh ChU:l'clilll, daughter moved from the alcoves in t e ity factor Will be about four . order: Phi Delta Theta, Beta Thomas, speaking at the noc•n strictly IFC domain. of EnglaJDid!$ own Winston, is· balccmy of the college library to one. Eta Upsilon, Alpha Delta Phi, chapel program, talked on \Slo- THE MEMBERS f th f t ·Wednesday Any S t U d e n t Delta Phi, Theta Delta Chi, Phi gans versus Factso'' He said that ' 0 e ra er- tJiPening a season of stbck produc- · · · · • LAST MINUr.l'E bids for booths Gamma Delta, Chi Psi, Kappa ity, represented on the IFC by tions at the Colo:rJal thooter, Al- caught defacing a volume will at Carpe Diem must be registered Alpha, Sigma Chi, Sigp:1a Phi, . people have become used to super- . Glenn E. Kane, early took the bany. \The Phlladephia Story;' is. be immediately suspended in the student activities office by Phi Sigma Kappa, Kappa · ficial thinking and must straighten stand the tax was not constltu- t4e . first pl;'e~:ntatlo~, and will from the college for one year, 4 p.m. Monday. The drawing will Sigma, Phi Sig!lla Delta, Beta ·out their ideas on such subjects tiona!, for the council constitution open· Mondlt,Y. ' M take place Tuesday, at 1 p.m. · Theta Pi, Delta Upsilon, and as .free enterprise, planned economy makes no specific mention of taxa- • ·:to ~ ·:r. , r. Webb added·. Ticket prices are slated to ·go up Kappa Nu. morals and religion. tion as a right of that body. New Yqt~ State's unintentional THE NEW POLICY .is a result to $8.40 after Wednesday noon, and During the first intermission He claimed also that excluding THE $ZO TAX was ruled to be gift tOo AA, . . the state capitol (more of an investigation ai se:veval sets will be on sale only in the stu- at the dance or approximately the Communists from the UN, as constitutional at the IFC meeting than one man has s:wor-n off after •Oof periodicals recently. \It will cost dent activities office. Faculty will 11:15 p.m., the Inter-fraternity has been suggested, will result April 11 under the clause which a good !{)o()k at it) is due for a bit at least $200.00 to replace those be admitted on payment of $1.20 Sing Cup will be awarded, only in ending all possibility of states \the IFC has the power to of redecorating. The massive stone volumes we've looked at,\ Mr. tax. arm control. promote the general welfare of the steps may be removed. The capitol Webb said. Articles and pictures STUDENT RESPONSE to the fraternities.\ was built between 1869 . and 1899, have been ·cut from magazines for prom of the half-century has ex- . at a cost of $25 million. Due to the sollle time, but never has as much ceeded any recollection by peren• N Ed•t S, Managers•, Council President William J. number of architects who were ert• damage been done as was recently nial campus pro-trotters. Under\ · arne · 1 or Hartnett stated he had spoken to g<a:ged in the project, the basic de- discovered by the staff. graduate:s anxious to seize the \last Dean C. William. Huntley, who said si·gn iS' Italian renaissance, with \I have held out for(llpen stacks,\. break\ before plunging into exam- s· 'uggest Ta Inc. rease ' he was in favor of $ 20 a year dues flares of Roman Classical, Roll!:\ said Webb, \'but the •boys have time cram-time. were offered dates · ' · ·. · X which would allow the council to anesque, ne.a.-Greek, and ·Gothic. ruined the system. Our whole set from a modeling age11cy through carry out its functions. The interior, to quote AP, is of 'Life' is ruined. If I get a the beneficent (alleged) services of The Union ;College Publications board has announced the Delta Chi has at all times agreed chiefly Renaissance Repub~ican, chance, I'll replace the set, for I Robert Diamond• and the Carpe appointment of editors and business managers for three cam- to give the sum of $20 as a con- with suggestions of early New. feel it will be impoortant in 50 Diem chapel program committee. Pl.lS publications. Walter N. Stroup was named editor of the tribution as was originally sug- Dealesque.\ years. But when I get the new THE METEORIC rise of Ralph Garnet and David Bereley business man. ager. Howard A .. gested tao the fraternities. \We are set I'll loc:Jt it up.\ Flanagan has been compared to s· d w If J R. willing to donate the money for •CURRENT ISSUES and bound the career .of Glenn Miller. Be\ 1ffi011S an 0 gang . · 1erner were reappointed as editors this eause, namely, to pay for the IFC Pl ·vcihtmes for the past 10 years of sides following the same appealing ~ of the Idol and Concordiensis, re- publication of a freshman hand- ' ' aces the· following popular periodica,ls style of arrangements, both .of s k A li t• sp(lctively. A. G. Davis Philip will be book, but we are not willing to will be among those at the ma.tn them took engagements at Union . ee' pp ea IODS the business manager of the IdoL donate money for any cause,\ said D Ch • p· desk: \Life \New Yorker,\ \New after opening at the Meadowbrook .. F R d d• Burton Grusky assumes the similar Maynard. . . ... l on ro Republic,\ \The Nation,\ \Vital Fla.P.agan has been tagged \the . or ecor . E Itor position for the Coneordiensls. THUS, the objection is not to ---o--- Speeches,'' \American Photog-, post-war Glenn Miller.\ A motion was made and passed the payment of the money, but Delta Chi fraternity was raphy,\ and \National Geographic.\· AREA disc jockeys have been Applicatio•ns are now being ac- that the student council be asked rather to the unlimited control P laced on social probation by The older volumes of these sets completely sold on Flanagan re- cepted by the publications board to recommend to the board of trus- over fraternities which could easily wHl be available in the library cordings. \I play them because for the position of editor of the tees that the student activities ta.x be gained through further broad the Interfraternity Council .annex 24 . hours after they are re- folks always go for them in a big. Freshman Record. The board has be raised an additional $4.00 a year, extension of the \General Welfare\ Tuesday evening by a vote of quested. The set of Moody's will way,\ said Marty Ross, staff an- announced that only present fresh• to. bring the total tax to $ZO.OO each clause o.f the IFC constitution. 16 to 1 because of its failure be moved to the main reading nouncer of WOKO. \Put a ball and men need apply for the post, which yeat•. The reason for the move The IFC would through precea to pay the $20 tax levied on room~ . chain on your wonmn, because that under a newly formulated policy was given as the increased cost of dent gain the power to interpret • \It!s true that all the damage music will W(}.() her right d'Own to is the chief position in what wil pnblication and printing and the the constitution broadly with only all fraternities :~;ecently. done is not recent,. blit more of it the bandstand.\ be an annual sophomore publica- pending cut in budg~>'t allotments a majority vote necessary. Where- THE SUSJ;>E:NSJON pi: ali parties is bei~g done now than before, Schedule for the (Jarpe Diem tion. due to the smaller student body as the members of Delta Chi con• and other social functions for thus callin~ for such extreme weekend includes: INTERESTED freshmen have expected this fall. tend a broad constitutional in- Delta Chi came about when it was (OQontln.ued on Page 4) FRIDAY, :MAY 6 been requested. to contact Wilford The board ·voted at this recent terpretation, such as the power t.o disclosed that all houses· had paid l2:05 p.'!Th--iBeer tapped, da.W8 H. E;etz, coordinator of student ac- meeting to follow the suggestion of tru1;, should be gained as a right the tax, with the exceptipn .. of . arrive. tivities, who is chairman of the the student council to distribute through a constitutional amend- Delta Chi. If tlte tax is }laid .by p:. hi·. Bet, St\ ... g x.·.· s so T i b selection committee. Duncan Mar- 'c-o·nies. of the Garnet only to the mertt, which requires a three- th .l·s n· .con, the. bouse w· 1·i1. a.uto- : p.m. .......... a.erosfje,. L · ra.l'Y tin, Howard .Simons are the other \\ F l ·e I d \'\\. t.hree upn<>rclasses and giving the quarters vote. matica,Jiy be reinstated. EJ t M. b tr~nk. '.=:.,\'t Al·-ex'' committee members. Work on the freshmen.-- a bound cop·y of the . The Delta Chi representative, ·:. ec . em · ers an....,der fi'\e~ ' .n~..-,;...- record must be beg,un this year, freshman record with ,the under- -..,----o---- . p f F L B d C H p'\''- ·\ ' v,,....,.,.. which means that appl1'cants must Glenn E. Kane, stated that his · rp s. . . · ronner an , . · ....,.... standing that copies of the Garnet CE' T house felt the IFd did not have Pearce, secretaries of PP,i Beta 8:15 p.m.-D!'C Sing, Memorial be screeneq soon, according to the may be purchased. . 8 our the power tO tax, since the power Kappa and Sigma Xi, respectively, committee. - · t .h k' d th ·-· ·f Ch!lpel. The Rec·ord will be a bound book ---o•--~ to tax is not directly given the· is \Vee announce . e names o 1\' o Bm. ..,a. ,..,e Di\' alumni . . . A number of senior civil engi- council in its c.onstitution. ·eight men elected to Phi .Bet and v-\' ... ~ · om, pf a permanent type which will F h c St. ff neers have been parti\ct'pating 1\n IN A NOTE SENT to the Coun 15 elected to Sig. Xi. s.o.mTT'D· y., ...... y be distributed to all f~eshmen in ·fOS ' amp a an annual inspectl\On trip to New cil, Delt~ Chi ask-ed that the colin: ELECTED to Phi Beta Kappa, Ma. ... rnin· v.&v. ~~ .. ' MA . !.,.,,. d the inc.oming class as soon as pos . A • t L• t d York city this week, directed by . national honorary society, wev.e . 0 g ,....sses SUS~·~e . sible after the beginning of the . potn ee· s IS e . Prof .. H. H. H. awley and accom- cil obtain a ruling on its power to H 1 J D. D t J D M\ 8:80 p.m.--Baseball, Alexander new term. Freshmen. will not re · , · tax !rom President Davids. on.. If arc d . aw, ermo . . e IS, ft .. ld ~-b s· \'\·te . panied by Prof. H. G. Harlow. Robel' . t p Br 1 'sson Tose B·et•mudez . e • ,tU, a.ny ..... · 'ceive the (tarn· et howevef, The following men have been Dr. Davidson rules that the lFC · · · • \' ' · · · • pt-• -'--'ibak tea POINTS OF interest to be in- Arnold s. Fisher, Lawrence S. \'+'cs \\\\'\ . e!l. s. selected from a list of applicants does have this poower, the note. Kr6ger, Mitchell w. Rabbino, and. 7:00 p.m.--Srmset sing, Jack- R' .' e· n· a.m .. e F' I·el' d' by the freshman camp faculty com- 'spected by the students inc)ude the added the $20 would l>e paid as a James H. Ros.en. sun's •Gardens. mlttee as members of the aamp Neversing and Merria.Il) dams at tax, a11d that if the decision was Gl l b JlilC sin · ff f 95 G I Laclrawack, the ventilation building negative the money would ·be given Elected to full membership In ee c u ' . . . . g T:Qe name ·Of .Graduate Council- sta or the summer of 1 0: . . of the Lilic·coln tunnel, the Brewster · S. igma Xi, national honorary sci-. winner, student song field ha.s. been changed to George Batkiewicz, M. Beck, H.. A. Burn- the council as a. donation, · f t; ba.nger at Teterboro airport, towers enti:fic society, was 4-SSistant pro-. 6 11 · , Daley field by the BOoard of Trus- ham, G. C. Carter, F. Cbillrud, R. Wilford H. Ketz, coordinator of fessor of phys~cs Curtis L. Helllen- 8:00 p.m.~Pastel Shade.s, tees in honor of George Daley '92 Dia:mond, V. DenneHy, R. Elngisch, and anchorages of the George studel1t activities, was ask--ed l>y 'w.a. ·Y· Electe. d •to as. sociate .mem- Agnello concert in Daley was a sports e!;litor' for J. J. Fischel, D. Hanford, D .. M. Washington bridge, the construc- th · '1· h h th ht th M rial Cb ·1 t tion of the New York University · e counCI ow e qug e bership were instructor of physics ellbO . . ,ape · many· years. o.n the New York Harvey, G. Hendon, R. Jennet • B .. C ·ollegh dm'ni'st\ati·~ would re·act , . . - . \\ T-.,.·ediately fte dark H use t. M G th A N' dli law school building, the construe- . .,. a 1 • · •v·u . . Harvey Marron, Dermot J . .JJeMis,. u..... a r : ·. 0 \World'' an.d the New 'llork \Her-. Les er, J. c · ra • • · tr nger, · t S h · · t fo:r · ruli g ..... · · · · tion of the pedestrian bridge across o · uc · a reques · a · n J·ohn C. DuMont, Anthony V. • pan~es. aid-Tribune\ until his death Feb H. Plummer, J. Pranke, W. J. Ketz said he 'Would ask the .presi- Fiacco, Robert E. Hay·es, H:a .. rold SUND.· , AY, :MAY 7 8,· 1938. Riemer, E. Schmidt, G. Shapiro, the Harlem river at 103 rd street, d t t t . g· ' . h li the sewage treatment works at • en .·no o lVe Sl1C . a ru f}ft• F. Heath, jr., Eugene F. :Krautter, 11.:00 a.m.-Reg u 1 a. r Sunday R. Strand, H. p, Strong, R. 'J,'horn,, w.ard l\slan. d,. a. nd the 179th street since he felt that if the adnlm- J'ames J. LaF' 'ores·t, J.· a~es R. Nel- ser~·lcA .. , ............ r'- 1 T T. kl' R F· Tl'ghe D Walrath E E ·istration ruie<l on the council's de- . son, James H. J;l.ose;,u Waller J. Oha~el. \' .!.Uou•~ ·- . ummy IC ~r . Wheeiel•, R. 'W'o~dr~ff. and A. L: tunnel at Fort Washington avenue. !Jision,, the door would be open for S]latt!;ls, william E. S6HeCito, Rap,- 3:00 p.m.-\Hurra.y· _ t~ • girls It has l:leen said that copying Burns. A special bus was chartered to administrati:ve conti'oi of the IFC ald F. Tucker, jr., and Philip F. girls _ a.re • gone\ from one source is plagerism; copy Alternates are s. P. Brown, J. take the men on, the trip. Each I.>Y. the college. . · Zaccheo. pa.i'ties. iilg from two is research. . P. Kennedy, and R. H. Stock. · man is paying his own expl'nses.

\' 2 (!nurnr Membar Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate •· Digest. Nationat Adver· Using Representative: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of the school year. Editorial Office, Washburn Hall, Union College~ Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered In the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mail Matter, subscription lOc a copy: $3 year dell vered any- where In the United States. S·ENIOR BOARD WOLFGANG RIEMER .......... , ................................... Editor JA..'\1ES BRYSON ............. , ~ ....................... AssoC'iate Editors DON CREGIER JAY COHN MARTIN SIEGEL .......................................... Page Editors WILLARD T A YLGR DONALD SClfWAR'PZ ..................................... Sports Editor ROBERT NAVIAS ......................................... Photo 'Editor LEON WEISBURGH .................................. Business ·Manager WILLIAM THAYER ................................ Circulation Manager JUNIOR BOARD WALTER TOWER ......................................... Copy Editors JE;ROME GARTNER It IRVING HANDLER ................................... Exchange Ed or BURTON GRUSKY ........................ Assistant Business Managers LEO KUPERSCHMID ALAN RADACK . RICHARD PHILIPPS ................... Assista'llt CirculatiOn Managers ROBERT ST'RAND REPORTERS John Cassidy, Dermot Demis, Donald Guertin, Eugene Halpert, Herbert Hiller, Jerome Klein, Marvin Kohn, Anthony Lang, Lawre.nce Levine, William :Mohrmann Calvin Malinka, David Palmer, Enc Schmidt, Stephen Simons, Do~ald Simmons, David Weichert, John Weiss. FEATURE STAFF Paul Carbone, Peter Fyfe. William Holzapfel, Alfred ¥ingon, Walter Levy, John MacDougal, John Moses, Robert Murray, Richard Nemeth, Monroe Silvermann, Robert Smith, Josef S. Tofel, David Weart, Michael Wolfe. George \Voo<lruff PHOTO STAFF Alan Forman BUSINESS STAFF Stephen Brown Jame<) DeSorbo, Frederick Devan, Hyman Florence, Jo~ph Handler, Charles Little, Daniel Siesel. OIB.OULATI()(N STAFF Thomas Davenport Henry Ducat, Robert Grindley, George Redington, Horace VanVoast, \vnuam Winchester, Richard Young, A.! Nolan. Vandalism Two items of delibe1·ate vandalism have come to our at- tention within the past tvm weeks. The first ~as made. known to us through the protestations of the people m charge of the student lounge in Hale house who have been faced with a wholesale loss of periodicals from their magazine ra~k in addition to the loss of a two volume set of the Oxford dic- tionary. Last Tuesday, Helmer L. Webb the college librarian, calmly announced that he was closing the balcony alcoves and placing several sets of bound periodicals under lock and key to prevent further damage. ln addition to this, he announced several very stiff penalties for any one caught defacing li- brary books. We must admit that we feel ashamed that students in our college are doing these things. This vandalism is a very deplorable state of affairs that should be eliminated by firm measures. The student body can and must cooperate to preserve not just the books and magazines for public use in our buildings, but also the reputation of Union College. However, the action of the librarian seems to us to be too extreme and done with just as much forethought that may have been the case in some of the vandalism. The al- coves were used by a great number of students who appreci- ated the semiseclusion that they offered. Perhaps one solution to the problem of adequate study facilities will be offered when study rooms will be provided in the new frosh dorm and in North and South ·Colleges. Perhaps for an even better answer Mr. Webb might conjur up a badly needed new library for us. IFCNeeded As an organization that can coordinate dealings with the college administration, accomplish more in the line of pub- licity, self regulation, beneficial projects, the Inter-Fraternity Council has unexcelled opportunities. But like any other voluntary organization it requires the cooperation of its mem- bers to accomplish its aims. When recalcitrant minorities quibble over technicalities FRIDAY. APRIL 28. 1950 ' Weeks Washing by Byron Letters To The Editor President Cartel\ Davidson ' Mr. Helmer L. Webb Tho. only to 3er is a. he's a.pr For Your Information FRIDAY, APRIL 28--Daily assem- bert club rehearsal, MC, 7:30 bly, Norman Thomas, \How to p.m. Stop the Drift to War,\ MC, THURSDAY, MAY 4-Daily assem- noon; basebali, Union vs. Cham- bly, Mr. Harry S. Pierson, di• plain at Plattsburgh, 3 p.m.; var- rector foreign. student and spe- sity golf, Bnion vs. Rochester at cialist program, Institute of In- Rochester, 3 p.m.; Norll,lan ternational Education, :MC, noon; Thomas, \An Immediate Program art exhibit, 9-5 p.m.; faculty men's for Peace\ OC, 3c30 p. m.; band club, lounge, 7:30 p.m.; society rehearsal, .gym, 4:30 p.m.; Octavo. for non1destructive testing, CE- Singers, MC, 8 p.m.; \The Beati- 106, 8 p.m.; Schubert club con- tudes\ by Cesar Franck (student· cert, MC, 8:30 p.m. tickets 60c from Prof. Ewing-; FRIDAY, MAY 5~Daily assembly, -chem. lab.) Art exhibit, \Fac- Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, MC, noon; ulty Collection,\ OC, 9-5 p.m. varsity track, Union vs. Champ- SATURDAY, APRIL 29 _Varsity lain. College, Sch'dy! 3:30 p.~.; track, Union vs. Hamilton •at varsity lacrosse, Umon vs. Mid- Schenectady, 2:30 p.m.; varsity dlebury at . ~chenectady, 3:30 lacrosse Union vs. Cornell at p.m.; art exhibit, OC, 9-3 p.m. In- Ithaca; 'law school aptitude test, t~rfraterni~ sing, MC, 8 p.m. chem. lab. 201; freshman lacrosse, CARr~ DlEM, Ralph Flanagan Union vs. Kimball-Union at and his orchestra, gym 10 p.m.- Meridan, 2:30 p.m.; varsity golf, 2 a.m. Union vs. Colgate at Hamilton, SATURDAY, MAY 6 - CLASS~S 1ff30 p.m.; economics conference, SUSPENDED; basebaJl, Umon OC, 1:30 p.m. and evening. Sche- · vs. N. Y. State College for Teach- nectady County Alumni concert ers,_ Schenectady 2:30 p.m.; art and dance (benefit of the scholar- exhibit OC, 9-5 p,m, Agnello con-. ship fund), Mohawk Golf club, cart, \Pastel Shades,\ MC, 7:30 8:30 p.m. Dancing 10-1 a.m. Dick p.m. House dances. Cannon and his orchestra. Art SUNDAY, MAY 7 - Mr. Seymour exhibit, OC, 9-5 p.m., \Faculty St. John, headmaster, Choate Collection.\ school. DAYLIGHT sAviNG TIME Cast -C-h- 6 -. ·s·Oen For SUNDAY, APRIL 30 - Preacher, The Rev. C. Victor Brown, \N• h Chaplain, Union College, MC, . Ig t Must Fall\ 11 a.m. R ehearsals are now in pi'C•gress MONDAY, MAY I-ALL CLASSES for \Night Must Fall,\ the Mounte- ON DAYLIGHT SAVING TIME. banks' third and final production Daily assembly, candidates for which will be given in Hanna hall class officers, MC, noon; Mounte- May 16-20. banks movie, OC, 4:30, 7 and 9 . WR~TTEN BY the English play- p.m.; \Rembrandt\ with Chas. wright Emily Williams, also the Laughton and Elsa Manchester, author Of \The Corn Is Green,\ 25c; student elections, Silliman \Night Must Fall\ is the story of a hail; Philomathean society, Eng- psychopathic killer and his effect lish reading room, 7:30 p.m.; Art on the residents of an English exhibit, OC, 9-5, \Faculty Collec- manor house. Although the story tion.\ builds steadily to its exciting eli• TUESDAY, MAY z.-Daily assem- max, the authol~ h,as no•t overlooked bly, Nguyen-Dinh, Hoa, MC, the opportunity for rich character noon; student elections, Silliman comedy. Faculty and Students of Union College Dear Sirs: Please accept this letter as one written by a' student who is very much concei·ned with the removal of the desks and chairs fl'om the bal- cony of tl;J.e library. TO 1\Ut. WlEBB I ask that he reconsider his actions in respect to the removal of the above. Although I realize that the stud·ents ru~e re- sponsible for the condition ,of cei'tain period.Jcals and books on display in the showcases at the library,. I do not feel it is fair to punish the enti·re student body for the shortsightedness of a few. I also feel that the removal' of the desks and cl:J.airs in the balcony has 1ittle to do with the matter at hand. To P.re:;idei1t Davidson I 'ask that he consider the fact that final examinatiqne, are· not too far off, and that a number of students, espe- cially those who have part-time jobs, find it difficult to make maximum ·tise of their limited time on the main .floor of the Ubraty. 'I'O THE FACULTY I ask that they take .steps to see that theit stu- d·ents have the proper facilities to carry on the work that is required of them. Now that the term papers are coming due we must spend time in doing research for these papei·s. I feel that if we do not have the use of the library balcony, ou.r course of study will be affected, To tli'e students I ask that they take steps wl').ich may be of some help in this entire matter-. I also ask that they use a bit more dis- cretion in tl;J.e use of lfooks and periodicals ih which we are all interested. · TO ALL ·WHO are concerned, I ask that this matter of ·desk and chair removal be reconsidered at the earliest opportunity as it is of extreme i·mportance to many of .us. Resectfully yours, .Agnello Pacelli Dear Sir: • · Will you please let me know if you print this Tetter.? I li:ve in the pasture. Sincel'ely yours, E. Arthur Kean Dear Sir: I have been gypped. Respectfully yours in all sincerity, Evan L. Richards Ed. note: Readers of last 1venk's concordlensls \Vill recall that Mr. -Ric!Iards wn.s declared one of the wimters in onr Letter of tlhe M.onth l'l!esterfield contest, 1Jmt Wfi,S Il!Ot awarded tile oort-t:m of clgo.rettes as lie Is a. member of tlt·ll Id.ol staff. Bear Sir: , Hats off to Professor Albright for his letter to the editor last week. He hit the nail right on the head, and it is unfpi'tunate that he did not enlarge upon the idea. Of course many of us who read the editorial remarked at the absu.rd contradiction of ideas expressed, but were too lazy or indifferent to do n).Uch else. AS LONG :AS the editor appears satisfied with his rat:her uncon- vincing explanation in last wee.k:.~s issue, it may not be entirely out of ord§l.t to proffer a little further com!Jlent. The passage in the orig-inal editorial, which was of greatest per- sonal interest went as follows: \What sort of .authority must we appeal to . . . How high do we have to go?'' It is· of interest to speculate on the type of thinking which provoked this passage. Pos- sibly the author believes that -the ideal way to extricate one's self from all difficulties, whether on the lev,el of col1ege society, or any other level, is to refer them all to the \administration.\ Or, on the other hand, perhaps he harbors the idea that someday, there can be found that great, big wonderful mother hen, who will provide us with everything, and for which we shall be required to do nothing. If, by .any chance, ·his sympathies lie with the latter, there should be lots ·and lots of room for him in a quaint little village on the Potomac, where his political philosophy will not be his only asset. - TO BECOniE a little trite for a moment, it Irlight be well to re- member that the men who ·founded this country were not prone to shrinking responsibilities. Nor were the;y men who expected govern- ments to take care of them, come all eventualities. Best of all, they were just a little bit less confused than the jacka{ls that wrote that editorial. Frederick W. Beck hall; UCCA (marriage course} Cast in the leading. role ·of the OC, 2:30 p.m.; Spanish club, Silli- murderous bellhop Dan is John H. man hall, 7 p.m.; Philomathean Milford, well-known around cam- society, OC, 7:30 p.m.; \Prexy pus for his previous ehores around Chat,\ rathskeller, 7:30 p.m. ttrt the college theater. Besides' play- · exhibit, OC, 9-5 p.m., \Facuuty ing the chief part, .Tack has also Collection.\ Five-county national C'esigned the set. spelling bee under auspices of IN SUPPORTING roles are Dc·n- Schenectady Union-Star, MC, 8 aid C. Hicks, remembered for his p.m. work this year in \Liliom\ and For that Fine Loo'k in Prom Attire Stop in at Our Formal Dress Dept. We Also Have a Large Stock of SUITS -SHIRTS - TIES WEDNESDAY, MAY 3 _Baseball, \Winterset and Edward M. Pat- Union vs. Rochester at Schenec- node, who also appeared in the tady, 3:30 p.m.; tennis, Union vs. two previous productions. The five R.P.I. at Schenectady, 2 p.m.; female parts will be taken by Mrs. freshman lacrosse, Union vs. Elizabeth Schurig,( Bertha Thomas, R PI t T EJlEJ.ine O.ll!nder, Susan Raymond. · ·. . a roy; FACULTY d M an rs. Adrienne Grenfell, all MEETING, EE 22 at 4:30 p.m.; living in Schenectady. art exhibit, OC, 9-5 p.m.; Schu- The play is ·under the direction New Books of Donald S. Jones, faculty advisor to the Mountebanks. It Pom·ed and other Accessories VI NICK'S MEN'S SHOP The following volumes have been they threaten the successful operation of the entire organiza- added to the college library re- tion. We feel that the IFC performs a very useful function. cently: There is an old: saying that when it rains, it pours. Such is the case of a member of the student body at Union. Cor. LAFA. VETTE and STATE STREET Also Rental Department on campus and that every effort should be made to keep all Biography--Bernard Blackstone: fraternities represented with in this group. \Virginia Woolf: a Commentary\; Margaret L. Coit: \Am-erican Por- trait: John C. Calhoun\; Hans von Vote! Elections are once more upon us. All on campus will . have, during the next few weeks, the opportunity to select those officers and representatives who will do the best job next year. Now is the time to pick good men. Complaining later will do little good if no attempt is made to vote and select the best now. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. PLACEMENT NEWS May 1, Mr. George S. Hawley, di-®·--~----------­ rector of personnel, will interview Mr. R. F. Livington, personnel for the Raybestos division of Ray- manager of Mercantile stores will bestos-Manhattan, Inc. pay us his semi-annual visit. Men May 2, Mr. John Neuhs, district interested in merchandising should manager of the Equitable Life .As- make an appointment for an inter- surance society will interview for. view on Friday, May 5. work in tl\e capital district. Mr. Representatives of the Insurance Wayman of Penn Mutual will see Companies of North America will men for sales out of the Schenec-j be here May 5 to interview for spe- tady office. cial agents and safety engineers. Echa.r~t: \Ivan the Terrible\; Franklm D. Roosevelt: \The Pub- lic Papers and Addresses, 1941-45\; Paul A. Schilpp: \Albert Einstein: Philosopher-Scientist\; WI Ill am Tindall: \.Tames Joyce: His Way of Interpreting the Modern World.\ Business EngliS'h-A. G. Saund~ ers: \Effective Business English.'' Fiction - Monica Baldwin: \I Leap Over the Wall\; Joyce Cary: \The Horse's Mouth\; Andre Gide: \School for Wives\; .Tohn Hersey: \The Wall.\ Jfistory- Rene Albrecht-Carrie: \Italy from Napoleon to Musso- lini\; Lucius D. 'Clay: \Decision in Germany\; George B. Sanso-m: \The Western World and Japan\; Fr-ank Tannenbaum: \Mexico: The Struggle for Peace and Bread.'' Litemtu:re - Ernest E. Leisy: \The American Historical N<J>vel\; Marc Slonim: \The Epic of Rus- sian Literature.\ Painting - Winston Churchill: \Painting as a Pastime.\ Physics -Albert Einstein: \The World as t See It.\ James Rosen a member of Phi Delta Theta, last week did the following. Elected to Phi Beta Kap.pa; Elected to Sigma XI; Got married . . . -Advertisement- Under New Management Followirug a plinciple of in- finite SeJ.'Vice to Union College, alutruistie benevolence rowaras the stwdent body, and putting aside all selfish profit motives, we talre pleasure in a.Ifu()WlCing the followilig: ... E)-om the most remote, exotic corners of mysterious Sclhenec- tady, we have gathe1·ed the most modern and advanced equi:ptm:ent, 1lbe mcst p!l'O:ficient technique, and talented artistes to serve you-in offering the Ultimate in Fine PJ.•om Photo- g.mphs. We not only propose reslilts that will please you, a;nd pro- vide a \Lasting Souvenir,\ but we even hope to delive1· the plints befm·e co'rnlnenOOin!ent. EVAN L. RiCHARDS AND ASSOCIATES (Prices on l'equest only.) ~­ THE NEW MOHAWK HOTEL announces the opening of their new and modern Dining and Club Rooms (or Wedding Parties, Luncheons, Teas, Banquets or Parties .. Menus and pri<;es will be submitted upon request. May we have .the pleasure of serving you? Phone Mrs. Sheldon--4:.3341 On B1•oaelway ~ear Sfafe Street Loo1 spring pqst-w that I for a: Colleg so met no- lo for OI sides, tive 1 need 1;1.nd i: Wi1J we w Oill. ca and i vw.·sit mtrax ball, andc as wi volle31 Tra from that 1 early seaso: a mi cir-cle ing a door tice. the ll Ind.oc Madi: wintE It : able bougl The wide, be m or it mura co uri far s Ba and ti01Ul stanc puts on p Ba regU: m.ou: prac prac in f mag eros: sha]; the days caus this poor only y'eat Tl thar reliE 150 stru .off!< tion will A be Hal to a( ball oth• A inti ava cou Ute box An can str1 anc the Fie An· sof bee 'J sui PilE bel ~ tru exc ste Hfj 001 foJ an ph J Hl loi dd ha Tl it ai:i

FltiDAY. APRIL 28 .. ·1950 'Tossin-' Aro:und · .= By Don. '8cltwartz :=..,.;_. f I Ora.nge Off a.nd Running Garnet Nine Seeks No.2 Golfers At Colgate; Netmen Play RPI •!> \- KEEP THE SPIRITS HIGH for PROM WEEKEND .. \ PH I L ENGLEHARDT'S 519 Union Sa. Phone 3-3110 ARROW • IS shorts $}.25 up your ticket to the Best Seat In .Tbe House! t-shirts $}.00 up One way to be sure of complete comfort below decks is .to buy ARROW shorts! Made without creeping center seam, they're full cut'-plenty roomy! Ideal teamed with Arrow T-shirts! ARROWsHIRTS & TIES. UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS Trackmen Figure To Top Hamilton SHIRT SPECIALISTS ... COMPLETE LAUNDRY SERVICE • at the W·GY LAUNDRY 420 UNION STREET 1 ~/o Discount Cash and Carry COMFORT WHERE COMFORT COUNTS! • FULL CUT • FINE FABRICS • NO ANNOYING CENTER SEAM ARROW SHORTS shorts $1.25 up t-shirts $1 up Yes-you can count on Arrow shorts for deep· seated comfort! No center seam-so there's no binding. They're designed to keep you com- fortable! Sanforized (shrinkage less than 1% ). Pick up a supply of Arrow shorts and T-shirts NOW! NUSBAUM'S 3 447-451 STATE STREET Ill 1!1=::::::::::::===:- FOR ARROW UNIVERSITY STYLES - ---~

4 Around Ca·mpus FRIDAYi APRIL 28• l9SO Rules For Athletes ··Nine ·Pledge APO The E!!-f;lte~n College Athletie c~m- ~ . . · Nine pledges W!li:'e inducted !n~o ferenda ·o.f 'vhioh ti'pion College is a . · aetlv~ ;members!lip in Alpha Phi• By David Palmer We would like to point out that· this is the col11Jru1, that everyone was clamodng for not too long ago. Well, now you've got it and we get less announcements illlan one could find on an .outhouse wall. We like an inte1•esting article just so we won't fall asleep writing it· so could we have a little coopera-- tion, please. Our motto is: We will p1int anything we can read. Just drop your comrn:uniques in the Concordy mail slot before Wednes- day no()n. We promise not to laugh. member h~s advi!Jed the a~hletic· petition, even thoug;h no r.e~u11er-•: .()m,ega,>l tlat.ipna! scouting service department of its ru}es in respect · ation is in'!'olved. '.fraternity:, during a formal inlt.ia• .-to athletes q'eS!ring non-collE:giate Two. :fQ.~MI;! n:nrst be :t;ll~ed out rui' tlon ceremony held recentiy ih the · summer athletic .e~pioyment. follows: , . e)ectrij)ai englneeri)ig •building. THEBE ARE standard forms to 1, Appii<;:ation for permli!f;lioh to Th9se in!ti.ated were . Willia~ be used ,bY student~ from E.C.A.d. play ·in non-collegiate competi• Wright, Wilham Cqndon, Le:wls member Colleges l ·n connect!' on· 'with tion. · · · · · · · · · · .. Tauber, Robert ~urray, Donald · .. ·· · ·. · • F b Ral P k A th vacation employment at summer. Note: Each sti!,dent is. respoiH · ors ·erg, , Ph .ruso ; r . ur camps, hotels~ beaches, pl;:~,ygro'\lnds sible for fillinl? two copies, one. Whlt~al\, :Paniel Siesel, and Eric and with industrial concerns, and with the Athletic Director's ~of\ .::s~;hm~;~d;t;.;;;;;;;t;;;;;;;;~~;;;;~ . ' also to be used by them prior to flee and the other with the rr . competing with amateur town W:C.A.C., Biltp10re ·}.later,· New ·· Pictured at the recent mock assembly held ·in Albany are P. Roger Fenwick, Philomathean debate manager; Thaddeus S. Rudzik; Philomathean president; Richard Mulligan, Cornell, stu- dent assembly speaker; Ba1'bara Kohlon, St. L~awrence, student assembly spealter; and Eli! ora Drefahl, cJebate coach at Albany State College, conference sec1·etary. The program committee of the Christian Association has an- nounced that an election of officers for the new college year will be held in Silliman Hall, Wednesday, May 3, at 12:30. The association subscribed to the following periodi- cals for the Silliman Hall reading room: .Saturday Evening Post, Atlantic Monthly, Newsweek, His, Christian Century, Perspective, America, Commentary, Christianity and Crisis, and Motive. Next fall, the Manchester Guardian and the ~;)~~on Times will be also avail- Philo's Announc·e The French clll!b held a meeting o· ebat· e C·on· test Library teams or with club teams in any ~ork 17, 1\f. Y. sport. · 2, E>eclaration of non-collegiate Under Article VIII, Section i!, of participation. . the E.C;A.C. Rules of Eligibility, Note: This form is to be for-· •: pl'ior to granting permission for wat:ded .in dup]ica.te by the ·stu- . non-collegiate athletic competition, dent to the team maJ;la.ger or the athletic directors a,re obliged to coach or the representative of obtain from the managers of the. his vacation employer .respgn- teams statements showing that sible for the ·C•rganization's sport11 · there is no payment to players for : program. The manager uses salary or living expenses, either di- · one set of .forms for each col-. · rectly or indirectly. · lege involved and returns one : , ATHLETES must receive ad-' signed bl~lf to the athletic di- vance permission from their own rector 81nd another to this· <:if- college authotities for each com- flee, · '· From Your Prom • • • ED'DIE•s BARBER ·sHO'P . l9ok right for . th9t Prom Date. Get rid of fhat sha9gy look. 220 Not+ Terrace Near St@!~ Street last Wednesday night 1n Silliman (Continued from Page 1) hall at 7:00. The spea.kei· was Mrs. The Philomathean Society has measures,~' Webb stated. Several And for any other v~,ry spe~cial oeca.si~on w~ will have CORSAGES that are .disfinctive in de- sign and 11 tops''' in quality. Silas Beatty, illle wife of one of anounced that entries for an intra- alternate plans were considered by the .students in Dutchman's Vil· mural debate contest must be in ·by the librarian, but the coot would lage. Mrs. Beatty is Frenclh and May 8. The contest will be held prove to be prohibitive; Mr. Webb spent some time in the under- during the week of May 15-19, on said the staff might prepare an ex- ground mo-vement during the war. the subject, Resolved: That the hibit of some of the damage that She gave a talk on Fra.noos using Honor System will not work at. has· ·been done to the periodicals. lantern slides to illustrate her Union College. A suitably engraved ANYONE CAUGHT defacing a oration. trophy cup will be awarded to the book is liable to a fine of $500 A small bit of gossip to brighten winning team.. and/or three years in jail by. your day. Could any one explain THE PHILOMATHEANS ended· federal law. Any student caught is why girls passing the campus on their inter-collegiate debate season also automatically out of school on the bus should feeled to by acting as hOISts at the recent for one year. As Webb expressed bow their beads reverently as they Albany Student Assembly. This it, \Any student caught defacing passed a fraternity house on Union was the largest gathering in that library property will be told to Street? The house shall remain body's history, with 26 colleges and pack his bags on the way to the DORIS REMIS FLOWERS Dean's office.\ unna;med. more than 120 student delegates at- \I believe the damage is the WRUC will present another in a tending. The Philomatheans have work of a small minority, not the series of broadcasts designed to participated in n:ore than 20 inter- larger portion of the student body, inform the Arrerican public and collegiate events this year, the so- but we have to hit the whole us collitch kids of the ways and ciety's heaviest schedule since its crowd,'' Webb said. He also added · means of attack of the dreaded post-war reorganization. some 40 <:hairs and 16 tabl'es have illness-cancer. The ninth in the been sold to another college de- series, the program will be de· partment. VlOted to the national Research AROT. C EX. pandS THERE WILL be enough room Council and its work. Ray Collins in the main reading room. of the and Edward G. Robinson will be Major Robert R. Eaton has an- library for all who wish to study · starred in the show which will nounced that freshmen and sopho- there, but the convenience of the, depict the role the NRC plays in t · balcony cub1'c!es w1'll ·n~t be en- • I b . more ve erans are now ellgible to ~ co !a oration with the American · · th u · C joyed. These restrictions will be Cancer Society as they work to JOm e mon ollege Air Force . d d h h ilt t' solve the riddle of cancer. It will Reserve Officers' Training corps. rescm e w en t e gu y par 1es IN A 0 present themselves to Mr. Webb, describe the several types of re- DDITI N to men majoring or when he feels the pill has cured search today being actively f.ol- in electrical and civil engineering the ill. lowed. It will also stress how the or physics, freshmen and sopho- -=============:::;; surest safeguard is vigilance and more veterans majoring in indus- I'\ immediate medical treatment dur- trial administration will be con- · ing the early stages. \For the Liv- sidered upon application for the ing\ is written and produced by advanced ROTC program, starting Hu Chain and will be heard at this fall. All other freshmen and 8:15 this Friday night. sophomore veterans who have had ---0--- DORM ROOMS Dormitory room reservations may ·be filed with Miss Fleming in the business office ·beginning Mon- day, May 1. Room assignments will be made beginning Wednes- day, May 10, and will be made In the order received. PROM SPECIAL!! SOLES and HEELS $2.50 I 0% Discount TO ALL UNION MEN CARMEN'S SHOE REPAIR Opposite City Hall experience in the field of com- munications are also encouraged to apply. ·l---------- .... -· I I I : Dress Clothes 1 , I I . 1 Headquarters 1 I I I T I I UX I I AILS 1 I I 1 Accessories : · I I I I I I I • I' I I I I YOUR PROM DATE will enjoy dining at the JAMES RESTAURANT 426 STATE ST. \Fine meals moderately priced\ SEitVING UNION'S MIN FOit YIA.I$ See Your Own Agent o~ the Campus for Complete Head to Foot S.nilce UNITED : OT.TAVIANO'S I ~~. -~--~-~---~- ~ .. ~-~--~-~- · : Sartorial Bar : . I I CLEANERS TAILORS LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the sick\ CHEMICALS - DRUGS Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET Jacob's Pharmacy Fountain Service • PIPES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN {Cor. Nott and Carrie) : 115 Jay Street : Phone 4-5676 I Opposite City Hall • 1 I I I I --------------· 114 STATE NHr F&RRY WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS .for WATCHES and JEWELRY R~pairing and Engraving Pens and the Finest Gifts Corner Sfafe and Center Sfs. OFFICIAL 1740 UNION ST. PROM FLORJiST SCH'DY 6-1271 ~ thr~uu!l~utthe countrY· cH~STERFIEll ~ 0 ~· ·. . .~ ·• :, .. .,.~·e..~ • ~ ., . _, •. . , . , ~ r IR:EN'DA MARSHALL Famous North Texas State Teachers College Alumna says: ''Chesterfields are so much milder and better-tasting that I find them completely to my liking.'• !J~~· STARRING IN ;'IROQUOIS TRAIL\ AN EDWARD SMALL PRODUCTION' RBI,EABB.D THRU UNITED ARTISTS HESTERft~ElD :·. Vol. -·- c c 0 H elec of :l Jll.{or wer ber F. den Joh pre: Rl .r. l wer• vice· uret 1951 netl Pes• of trea yeaJ wn: L. den spec p of t and offi opp cas• ing the cer1 cei' offj 195: not one of· F hac the rae cia cor tiOJ Jet lac we OV! in 1 ' c Cll of ab au Ft W( in; Ull elc to m or se h! pi e1 la tll rE s. tc l'! R G h r• b a r• I s